CMUmay buildhotel on Morewood lot
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
A 150-to-250 room hotel and conference 
center may be built by an outside develop­
ment group on the Camegie-Mellon cam­
pus at an estimated cost of $35 million.
CMU trustees in June selected the com­
pany that operates the Western Conference 
Center in Scottsdale, Arizona, to develop 
plans for the CMU hotel. It would be built 
on one part of the Morewood Gardens park­
ing lot facing Forbes Avenue.
“It’s a facility we need and we think 
Oakland needs. Pitt needs it and the 
hospitals need it,” President Richard M. 
Cyert said. “We expect it to bring in a lot 
of conferences, and therefore more money 
and jobs to the city.”
Although the hotel’s primary purpose 
would be to provide conference space, it 
would be open to everyone. “It would be run 
like a regular hotel,” Cyert said.
Vice President of Business Affairs 
Frederick Rogers sees the hotel as having 
benefits for the CMU community as well. 
“This will bring a lot of people onto the cam­
pus who are business types, who will hopeful­
ly learn a lot of things about CMU.”
Cyert noted that the hotel would be used 
mostly for “academically related” con­
ferences. Even corporation-sponsored 
meetings would be related to academic sub­
jects, he said.
The money made by the hotel would help 
finance some of the renovations of buildings 
on campus such as Skibo, Rogers said. In the 
nearer future, however, a new athletic facili­
ty, which would be open to hotel patrons as 
well as the campus community, is being 
planned. The exact financing of the new 
athletic facility is uncertain, according to 
Rogers.
The loss of the Morewood parking lot will 
definitely worsen the parking problem, said 
Rogers. “The era of parking garages has ar­
rived. We’re going to have to build structural 
parking.”
Rogers also said he didn’t think the new 
hotel would be obtrusive to the rest of the 
campus because it would be on the far side 
of the lot, near Central Catholic High 
School.
“It probably won’t be taller than 
Morewood Gardens or Warner Hall. 
Students walking on campus probably won’t 
even notice it,” he said.
Student Senate President Karen Lee 
declined comment on the hotel, but said 
that Rogers would be attending tonight’s 
Student Senate meeting to further explain 
the proposal and answer questions.
The proposal will go to the Board of 
Trustees for final approval in mid-October. 
“I suspect [the Board] will approve,” Rogers 
said.The Morewood parking lot, shown above, has been chosen as the site of the new hotel.
Manley named director of SEI
PITTSBURGH—John H. Manley, a na­
tionally prominent expert in software 
engineering, has been named director of the 
Software Engineering Institute (SEI) of 
Camegie-Mellon University.
Manley, 53, is vice president for engineer­
ing and technology at Nastec Corporation 
of Southfield, Mich. He provides technical 
strategic planning and direction in research, 
development, engineering and field support 
for the corporation’s computer-aided soft­
ware and systems engineering product lines.
Manley is also founder and president of 
Computing Technology Transition Inc., of 
Madison, Conn., a software engineering
consulting firm.
As director of SEI, he will oversee efforts 
to improve Department of Defense com­
puter systems by developing new tools and 
techniques for creating and modifying soft­
ware, and accelerating the rate at which 
these new tools and techniques are put into 
practice.
Camegie-Mellon was awarded the $103 
million federal contract to establish SEI last 
January.
Manley will take the position Aug. 15, 
although he is expected to begin working 
with the SEI research team prior to that 
date.
“Camegie-Mellon is honored to have a 
professional of John Manley’s stature ad­
ministering this important research in­
stitute,” said Angel G. Jordan, provost of 
Camegie-Mellon.
“SEI is intended to unite industry, 
academia and government in this important 
effort to improve the production of software. 
John’s wide-ranging experience in all of 
these sectors makes him uniquely suited to 
lead the Software Engineering Institute.” 
When asked how he thought the SEI 
would affect students, Manley said, 
“Students work with computers in daily life. 
The SEI should prepare them for new in­
novations. Second, the emphasis on Soft­
ware Engineering... makes CMU more at­
tractive to come and study. Finally, the SEI 
will provide summer month employment 
and part-time SEI projects.”
The appointment of a permanent direc­
tor enables Nico Habermann, who has been 
the acting director of SEI, to return to his 
position as head of the Computer Science 
Department.
“The university is deeply indebted to Nico 
for his hard work and insightful leadership 
in getting SEI up and running,” Jordan said. 
“He will continue to contribute to SEI’s 
continued on page 5
Cross-country ties NCAA recordIn This Issue:
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
The CMU Men’s Cross Country team has 
tied the PAC Division III record for most 
consecutive dual meet wins at 66. The win 
came in a challenging triple meet against 
Robert Morris College with a score of 24-35, 
Geneva College, 17-44, and Duquesne 
University, 15-50.
The first Tartan to cross the line was Pat 
Noll, a very promising freshman, making his 
first college appearance. Noll and fellow 
freshman Tom Ford are the kind of runners 
that will make the nucleus of the team in 
the future. Noll’s training was such that the 
oppressive heat and staggering humidity did 
not keep him from running a spectacular 
race. “I hung back, like the Coach told us 
to for a while, then started picking up. At 
about 3 miles, I had a 50 yard lead so I could 
relax and concentrate on finishing,” Noll 
commented about the race.
continued on page 13
News
Modell named Acting Dean page 3 
Dean Walter marries...................page 2
Features
Strip District offerings..............page 7
Entertainment
Yngwie Malmsteen.......................page 9
OMD..............................................................page 9
Sports
Tartans crush Dukes..................page 13
AFC Preview......................................page 16
photr hy Olve Peersen Editorial................................................page 18
The CMU Men's Cross Country team, pictured above, has tied thf . division 
III record in a triple meet against Robert Morris College. .r\ CtyhG a a a aa«aaaaa«aaaaaa>aaaaaaaaaaaaa *PdQ0 ZO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 10, 1985
New enrollment policy 
eliminates 'deadbeats'
By AMY COPPOLA
Tartan Staffwriter
A change in enrollment policy beginning 
this semester will eliminate “deadbeats” from 
the classroom.
According to Assistant Registrar Bob 
Checca, students in the past have been able 
to attend classes, use CMU facilities and 
even live in the dormitories without paying 
any fees.
This was a result of the old enrollment 
policy which stated that no student may be 
enrolled in the University until all his 
University fees were paid in full.
Although the old policy appears rigid, 
many students attended class without 
enrolling. These students then either 
dropped out during the semester, or waited 
to enroll (in some cases, a year or more later) 
and then demanded grades for those classes.
According to Checca, there was no ade­
quate way to determine who the “deadbeats” 
were since they were not on a class list and 
therefore did not exist to the University.
Because of this loophole in the system, Chec­
ca has subtided the old policy as the “Ostrich 
Policy” since CMU was “burying its head in 
the sand.”
Checca claims that the old policy may 
have been adequate 15 years ago when tui­
tion was lower and fewer students were on 
financial aid. However, the elevated tuition 
and the numerous applicants for financial 
aid, which have all but overwhelmed the 
federal government, have dictated a need for 
change concerning enrollment procedures.
This past spring, Checca, along with the 
Registrar, the Cashier, the Planning direc­
tor and several people from Administrative 
Systems worked on the new policy which will 
permit students to enroll and attend classes 
although their tuition may not be paid in 
full. Checca stated that this policy will at 
least provide the University with the infor­
mation of “who owes CMU what.”
Checca concluded that the new system 
will “hopefully reestablish credibility to class 
lists and prove productive for student regula­
tion and faculty purposes.”
Dean of Student Affairs ties the knot
By CHRIS LIOTTA
Tartan Staffwriter 
Congratulations are in order for Dr. Brad 
Walter, Dean of Student Affairs. On June 21, 
Dean Walter married Beverly Railey, Direc­
tor of the Grants Program for the Claude 
Worthington Foundation.
The former Ms. Railey has a Master’s 
degree from West Virginia University, and 
received her Bachelor’s degree from Fair­
mont College.
and Rachel, five. The former Ms. Railey was 
raising her sixteen-year-old daughter, Jenifer 
Lynn. The Dean is very excited about the 
notion of “building a family; putting two 
families together to make one.” He said that 
the whole family is enthusiastic about their 
new life together, and about the complex 
relationships that now exist. The Walters, 
their new Golden Retriever puppy named 
Maggie, and the rest of their animals reside 
in Oakmont.
The newlyweds took a long weekend 
visiting old inns in Eastern Pennsylvania.
After taking their whole family to the Atlan­
tic shore, they came back to CMU for 
Freshman Camp. Aside from this, an official 
week-long honeymoon is still “to be an­
nounced.”
Dean Walter expressed his appreciation to 
all students who helped out at the reception, 
or sent gifts, cards and their congratulations. 
He commented that it was nice for students 
to see personal events in the lives of univer­
sity professionals, who are sometimes 
perceived as having merely one-dimensional 
existences.
U. S. Deportment of Transportation
The wedding took place at the Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church. Present at the wedding 
were the bride and groom, their respective 
children, the Honorable Judge James R. 
McGregor of the Court of Common Pleas 
of Allegheny County, and the Reverend Tim 
Sullivan, who is the Presbyterian Chaplain 
of CMU. Friends and family attended the 
reception held June 29 in Oakmont.
Prior to this marriage, Dean Walter was 
bringing up his two daughters, Kate, ten,
TOFRIE NOED SR.’E m.RF p.erf’E
TO FRIENDS. I’m perfectly fine. I can 
drive with my eyes closed. There’s nothing 
wrong with me. Are you joking—I feel 
great. What am I—a wimp? I'm in great 
shape to drive. You’re not serious are you? 
What’s a couple of beers? Nobody drives 
my car but me. I’ve never felt better. I can 
drink with the best of them. But I only had 
a few. So I had a couple. I can drive rings 
around anybody. I can drive my own car, 
thank you. I’m not drunk. I drive better 
I’m like this. Who says I can’t drink 
Irive? I can hold my booze. I know 
I always drive like this, 
ist me. What’s a few 
to me. I’m 
”’th my eyes 
ith me.
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 Thurs., Fri. 10-9 687-3500
Sat. 9-6 No Appointments
DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIP
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED'
Great Styles Start of...
APPOINTMENT l^rllDT 
NECESSARY URlfl ISHKCTflTiSnS
PRECISOSI HAIRCUT TERS
WASH, CUT AND COLOR PERMS FOR
BLOW DRY ALL STYLES$13.00 $25.00
(ANY LENGTH)
237 Atwood Street
UNISEX HAIR SALON

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 1985—The Tartan—Page 3
Modell named acting dean of H&SS
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Dr. John Modell, professor of history at 
Carnegie-Mellon University since 1982, was 
appointed to acting dean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, effective 
July 1.
The position of the H&SS dean has 
undergone a series of changes since 
December 1984. Dean Kiesler, the College’s 
most recent long-term dean, left last 
December after holding the position for two 
years.
In January 1984, Dr. Anthony Penna was 
named acting dean only to leave six months 
later for the position of provost and senior 
vice president for academic affairs at Nor­
theastern University in Boston.
Modell is replacing Penna and will be act­
ing dean of the Liberal Arts College for one 
year.
As the acting dean he will oversee such 
major college initiatives as the formation of 
a new Philosophy Department and the 
development of a Decision Sciences 
Program.
The past summer’s launching of a Philo­
sophy Department was planned in coopera­
tion with the History Department, the cen­
tral administration, and the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences.
Modell asserted that even though the 
department isn’t very big, nor in the posi­
tion to offer a Doctoral Program, the facul­
ty is superb and is in the process of chang­
ing the curriculum.
The outlook on the Philosophy Depart­
ment is a very positive one. Dr. Modell said 
that from an H&SS perspective, the creation
of this department is one of the most glorious 
things that has happened in some years.
The other initiative is to develop a Deci­
sion Sciences Program. This is a graduate 
level program in the Social Sciences Depart­
ment. The faculty is creating a core for the 
new Decision Sciences Doctoral Program 
which will be interdepartmental and inter­
college, meaning it won’t exclude students 
not in H&SS.
Top senior figures in this field have been 
brought in to head the Social Sciences 
Department and to help establish the Deci­
sion Sciences Program.
Decision Sciences will study the complex 
process of how people make decisions and 
will be used as a building block for other 
programs in the Social Sciences Department.
Modell is enthusiastic about his new ad­
ministrative position, as it gives him the op­
portunity to observe the actions in all seven 
departments.
He defines his work as “attending to rela­
tionships between the operating depart­
ments located in the college and the general 
administration,” with his primary goal be­
ing “to create a college of interacting 
minds.”
When asked to view his position as op­
posed to that of a long-term dean, Modell 
stated that even though he could not make 
long range plans, he could do as much as 
any dean could do in one year.
He can initiate ideas for change and per­
suade the faculty to put their ideas into ac­
tion. Modell would like to bridge the gaps 
between the different centers of interest in 
H&SS and work with the faculty, “where all 
the good ideas come from,” to keep the cur­
riculum up to date.
Curriculum is constantly a matter of 
tinkering because one discovers new 
strengths from within, one discovers new 
demands from the students, and one 
discovers new opportunities on the outside,” 
he said.
Modell contends that he is very well 
prepared for his term as acting dean because 
he is a historian. He says that historians are
the most eclectic people because they don’t 
know a lot about one thing, rather they 
know a little about everything.
Modell is not in flight from teaching; he 
loves to teach and says he shall return. For 
the moment, however, he finds that his new 
administrative position as acting dean of 
H&SS is fascinating. He enjoys working with 
the faculty and is very optimistic as well as 
enthusiastic about the upcoming year.
“Knowledge is of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find Information upon it.”
Boswell, Life of Johnson (1775)
Carnegie Mellon University Libraries 
Copier Service
We offer...
*self service copiers located in Hunt and E&S Libraries, Skibo 
and the Computation Center.
*good quality copies on plain paper.
’reduction and enlargement capabilities at selected locations.
*the ability to make copies with Copicards at most locations.
Coin vend copies can also be made on selected copiers.
•volume discounts for copies made with Copicards. (You can 
use your Copicard until the value credited to the card 
has been depleted; there is no eipiration date.)
Copicards are available at...
*Hunt Library Circulation Desk
*E&S Library Circulation Desk
•Cashier’s Office
Save your used Copicard\ turn it in when you purchase 
your new Copicard, and receive a S.20 refund toward 
the purchase of a new card.
ATTENTION: Seniors in H&SS and IM
The H&SS Senior Resume Book is 
currently being prepared by the 
Office of Career Services and 
Placement. This book will be cir­
culated to over 200 companies and 
corporations. The deadline for 
submitting your completed 
resume to the Office of Career 
Services and Placement so it 
may be included in this book is 
Friday, September 20. If you 
would like help in writing your 
resume, make an appointment 
to see Debbie Mall in Career 
Services and Placement, War­
ner Hall Room 19.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—September 10, 1985
Student dies of cancer
A CMU student died this summer 
after a six month bout with cancer.
Jonathan “Hannibal” Klein of Ver­
milion, Ohio died on August 6. He 
would have been a sophomore this fall 
here at CMU.
Jonathan was bom in Lorain, Ohio, 
on September 11, 1966, and attend­
ed Vermilion High School where he 
was highly active in the Drama pro­
gram, acting as President of the 
Drama Club. He also performed in 
many community theater productions 
and was recognized for best acting 
honors on both state and regional 
levels during his senior year.
Here at CMU he will be
remembered for his performances as 
a member of the Jazz Choir, and for 
his part in Scotch'n’Soda’s “Hooter’s”.
Jonathan is survived by his parents, 
Gerda and Warren Klein; brothers, 
Peter, Robert and David; sister, Ran- 
di; grandmother, Sylvia Hirsch; and 
his wife, Stace, to whom he was mar­
ried on July 6.
The family suggests that memorial 
contributions and condolence letters 
be sent to the Jonathan Klein 
Memorial Scholarship Fund, in care 
of the Greater Lorain County Com­
munity Foundation, 6125 S. Broad­
way, Lorain, Ohio 44053.
Watermelon Bash defies 
threatening skies
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Although moved from its traditional set­
ting and beset by bad weather, the annual 
fall Watermelon Bash was a rousing success.
There was initial concern that the 
threatening skies and the move to the Cut 
from the traditional location in the Frater­
nity Quadrangle would dampen a usually 
festive occasion. But those fears proved 
groundless.
The Bash was sponsored by the 16 cam­
pus fraternities and sororities through the 
Inter-Fraternity Council, and was open to 
the entire campus. It was estimated that 
almost half of the student body dropped by 
at one time or another.
Watermelon wasn’t the only attraction at 
the Bash. Hot dogs and fresh com on the
cob were available free of charge to all 
courtesy of the IFC, as was beer and soft 
drinks.
Popular local band Streetheart was en­
gaged to provide musical entertainment. 
Although the music was delayed until after
7 p.m., the wait was well worthwhile, as the 
band entertained those who endured the 
wait and attracted scores of newcomers.
Aside from its obvious function as a 
campus-wide good time, the Watermelon 
Bash serves other purposes. It is the first in­
troduction to the Greek community for 
many freshmen, many of whom may even­
tually become members of a fraternity or 
sorority. The Bash also serves to promote 
unity among Greeks, as evidenced by the 
large number wearing letter shirts, and the 
campus community as a whole.
White Witch:
Happy 21st Birthday
Love Always, Fuzzy Bear
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
• stuck*nt discount available 
•easilv accessible bv bus from CM I-
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-4770
MasterCard \’i.sa accepted 
( I ill apfMjintmciit
CMU offers course 
on Global Population
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie-Mellon University will address 
one area of major social concern when it of­
fers “Global Population: Myths, Realities 
and Policies,” a two-day, campus-wide 
course.
“The course is designed to give us time as 
a university to break out of our day-to-day 
professional concerns and address 
larger intellectual issues,” said 
Engineering and Public Policy 
Head and organizing commit-GIMML
population.
Judith Modell, an anthropologist at CMU, 
will lecture on people’s views on having 
children, and how these views vary from 
culture to culture.
Twice during the course, participants will 
break up into smaller groups to discuss such 
issues as urbanization in Indonesia, popula­
tion issues in China and the Soviet Union, 
and climate and food in North Africa.
President Richard M. Cyert will chair a 
round table discussion on Ethical and Policy 
issues concerning population. Acting Dean
7UIAT10N
tee member Granger Morgan.
“Global Population”, which will be held 
in Skibo from Friday, September 27 to Satur­
day, September 28, is the second of a series 
of such courses. In April 1984, the universi­
ty offered “Nuclear Winter: Is it for real . . . 
does it matter?” According to Morgan, it was 
“very successful, a lively intellectual ex­
perience.”
For this course, “the very best people in 
the world” have been brought to participate, 
according to Morgan. Some of the country’s 
top demographers will lecture on population 
issues of the developed and underdeveloped 
world.
Samuel Preston of the University of Penn­
sylvania will open the course with an in­
troduction to the fundamental ideas of 
demography. On Saturday he will lecture on 
demographic change in the United States 
and its effect on the youth and aged.
Stanford University’s Kingsley Davis will 
lecture on “Population, resources and 
development,” and later in the course, give 
an overview of population issues in the 
developing and underdeveloped world.
Jacob Siegel of Georgetown University will 
address the issue of population and aging 
in developed countries.
Michael S. Teitelbaum of the Sloan Foun­
dation will lecture on United States’ policy 
regarding immigrants and refugees. 
Georgetown University’s Murray Feshbach 
will follow with a report on the Soviet Union’s 
population trends and dilemmas.
A number of CMU faculty will lecture on 
population-related issues.
History professor Peter Stearns will speak 
on the historical dynamics behind
of the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, John Modell, will open the discus­
sion by presenting several key issues for 
consideration.
The course is open for two units of 
academic credit to all full-time 
undergraduate and graduate students. It 
can also be audited by any student, faculty 
or staff member of the CMU community.
Students taking the course for credit will 
be expected to do reading beforehand. A 
collection of readings, scheduled to go on 
sale in the CMU bookstore next week, will 
cost no more than twenty dollars, according 
to Morgan. He said he is looking to lower 
the cost to students by seeking subsidization 
from the President’s office.
Students will also be expected to submit 
a 1000 to 1500 word essay on an assigned 
topic by October 9. A cash prize of $200 will 
be awarded to the best essay. According to 
Morgan, additional prizes may be awarded 
if several entries are chosen. .
Students who want to attend the course 
must preregister. Registration tables will be 
set up on campus. Students may also register 
at 129 Baker Hall or between 9:00 am and 
5:00 pm at the Skibo Information Desk.
Most of the course participants will attend 
meals together, Morgan said. Since space is 
limited, however, students must indicate 
their preference for meals when they 
preregister. Dinner on Friday, September 27, 
will be $4.00. Lunch on Saturday, 
September 28, will be $5.20. Both meals can 
be paid for with cash or with a meal plan 
card.
ByK AR
-----
SAVE 40% OFF NEWSSTAND RATE!Student discount rate of 300 per copy!Only $19.50 for 13 weeks!
Return this coupon to your 
bookstore TODAY! Subscribe 
now and SAVE! USA TODAY 
FOR THE LEADERS OF 
TOMORROW!
Return this coupon to your College Bookstore along with your payment"! 
| TODAY! Your copy will be reserved daily for you at the Bookstore. >
NAME 
I CAMPUS ADDRESS j CAMPUS PHONE
Only $19.50 for 13 weeks!

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 1985—The Tartan—Page 5
Student Senate Minutes
MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
September 3, 1985
The meeting was called to order at 7:04 PM.
PRESENT: Bach, Bett, Chu, Chun, Cohen, 
DeBroff, DeLeon, Flynn, Harrison, Hynes, 
Ickes, Jagerski, Kissner, Lee, Lee, Miller, 
Murphy, Mukherjee, Novak, Rocher, 
Salomon, Salley, Taylor, Whysel, Dean 
Walter, Dean Cox.
ABSENT: Brooks, DeMelio, Shuldiner, 
Simmons.
Minutes of April 30 approved.
DEAN WALTER:
Expressed pleasure with Senate’s efforts 
over the summer and the “supercharging” 
of the freshman class, of which many are 
already interested in involvement with stu­
dent government.
Also addressed rumors concerning CMU’s 
future hotel site. A conference center will 
be built in the Morewood Gardens parking 
lot, though no parking spaces will be 
sacrificed. Pending approval by the Board 
of Trustees in October, the center will be, 
in Walter’s estimation, a real “plus for the 
University,” as it will incorporate many out­
side interests, such as the Software Engineer­
ing Institute. The venture is being complete­
ly subsidized by an outside firm, and the ad­
ditional building of a student activity center 
seems imminent and will include an indoor 
pool and racquetball courts enclosed in a 
recreational facility reaching from Skibo to 
Margaret Morrison.
Walter also encouraged Senate to suggest 
students for several University committees, 
including Public Relations, Student Affairs, 
Finance, Development and Academic Af­
fairs; and two for the Student Affairs Com­
mittee of Faculty Senate.
Finally, the pub is at long last under con­
struction and slated to open in early 
October.
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE 
SENATE CONSTITUTION:
Peter Cohen outlined the three new com­
mittees proposed and the changes in the 
constitution that would be then required. In 
short, a Public Relations Committee would 
be formed, G C & I’s name would be chang­
ed to “Campus Affairs Committee,” and the 
Finance and Rules Committees would be in­
corporated into a Funding and Recognition 
Committee with two co-chairmen. This will 
“combine and improve manpower” and, as 
Dean Cox pointed out, will simplify the cur­
rent two-step process for approval and fun­
ding of new organizations.
VOTE on proposed amendments. Passes 
unanimously. For exact changes, please 
refer to “Constitutional Amendments — 
Introduced by Peter Cohen, Mike Bett, and 
Karen Lee” dated September 3, 1985.
FLOOR OPENS FOR NOMINATIONS 
FOR PUBLIC RELATIONS AND 
HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE: 
Nominations: Mark Kissner, Seana Chun 
(declined). Motion to accept Mark by ac­
clamation. Motion approved.
NOMINATIONS FOR CO-CHAIRMAN 
OF FUNDING AND RECOGNITION 
Nominations: Tamal Mukherjee. Motion 
to accept Tamal by acclamation.
AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION 
Q. What is the pub?
A: A non-alcoholic student center nam­
ed “Scotland Yard” serving fancy drinks and 
food preparation facilities coming next 
summer.
Manley will head SEI
continued from page 1
technical development and will work close­
ly with Manley to ensure a smooth transi­
tion.”
“The SEI is at a point where transition of 
leadership is most appropriate,” Haber - 
mann said. “Public presentations schedul­
ed for the end of July mark the conclusion 
of the SEI’s initial phase.
“An outstanding technical staff has been 
recruited, solid one- and five-year plans 
have been produced and five interesting 
software engineering projects are making 
rapid progress.”
Manley’s research interests have focused 
on promoting the development and applica­
tion of software engineering life cycle 
technologies to improve the United States’ 
technology base. He served 21 years in the 
U.S. Air Force. His last assignment was 
director of computer resource acquisition
policy, Headquarters Air Force Systems 
Command. He established the basis for the 
first Air Force regulations and Department 
of Defense directives for controlling the 
planning, procurement, production, opera­
tion and maintenance of computer resources 
in weapons systems.
Manley joined Nastec in 1983 after three 
years as director of programming applied 
technology for ITT Corporation. From 
1975-80, he was assistant to the director of 
The John Hopkins University Applied 
Physics Laboratory.
After earning a bachelor of metallurgical 
engineering degree from Cornell Universi­
ty, he earned a master’s degree in industrial 
engineering and a doctor’s degree in opera­
tions research at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Manley is married and the father of four 
children.
Q: Why was the library closed Monday 
and Sunday?
A: Not enough work-study students. It’s 
a tedious job for a minimal wage. Seana 
Chun proposed an investigation of the 
situation.
Q: What are the Senate election 
procedures?
A: Each semester, half of the seats go up 
for re-election. There are now two open 
seats in CIT and one in H&SS. Twenty-five 
valid signatures from your college must be 
brought to Skibo Info and your name will 
then appear as a candidate.
DEAN COX:
Expressed approval of the reorganization 
of Senate and announced a new Senate key 
policy.
PRESIDENT:
Key authorization cards will be handed 
out. Carry them with you and present with 
I.D. at Skibo Info for a key to the office.
A copy of CMU’s plans for the next five 
years will be at the Senate office and Karen 
will take all comments and questions to the 
Trustees meeting in October. She will also 
meet with President Cyert about the hotel.
Wants to purchase the IBM and printer 
approved two years ago.
Will continue Bills’ committee to in­
vestigate the monopoly of auxiliary services, 
like Entropy, the Co-op, and the bookstore. 
Are they breaking even or making a profit?
SDC:
A new division will be set up to deal with 
mini-lectures and skills and leadership 
workshops to be conducted by CMU pro­
fessors and students.
IFC:
Rush starts Wednesday, and all weekday 
activities will be dry.
CHAIRMAN:
Steve Weller has been appointed 
Parliamentarian and committee 
assignments are as follows:
PUBLIC RELATIONS: Joe Murphy, 
Mark Kissner, Chrissy Hynes, Colleen 
Harrison.
CAMPUS AFFAIRS: Peter Cohen, Jay 
Brooks, Seana Chun, Ken Miller, Michal 
Shuldiner.
FUNDING AND RECOGNITION: Gin 
ny Ickes, Tamal Mukherjee, Bill Simmons, 
Dave Salomon, Hilary DeBroff, Fred 
DeLeon, Andy Lee, Larry Bach.
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS: Cindy Taylor, 
Cherie Jagerski, Brett Whysel, Eric Rocher, 
Steve Weller.
FUNDING AND RECOGNITION: 
Petitions will be due September 23 — there 
are three open seats.
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS:
First year for University Core Curriculum. 
All incoming freshmen will take Stategies for 
Writing or a higher level English course and 
a three-unit pass/fail computer skills class.
PUBLIC RELATIONS:
No report.
CAMPUS AFFAIRS:
No report.
FUNDING AND RECOGNITION:
No report.
NEW BUSINESS:
Cherie Jagerski reminded Senate that the 
phone-a-thon is coming up to muster alum­
ni support. Senate is expected to participate 
on October 1.
The meeting adjourned at 8:25.
Respectfully submitted,
Stephanie Wardrop
C-Book Correction Form
Name____________________________
MajorYear
Address
Phone Number___________________________
Other
Do You VUtant VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards ?
Mow YOU can have two of che aoat recognized and accepted 
credit card« lo the world...VISA® and Maatercard^ credit
cards____"in your naan" EVEN If YOU All NEW IN CREDIT ox
HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEPOREI
VISA® and MaeterCardjp cha 
cradle carda you daaarva and need for * 10 * BOOKS 
• DEPARTMENT STORES * TUITION * ENTERTAINMENT 
• EMERGENCY CASH • TICKETS • RESTAURANTS 
* HOTELS 4 MOTELS * CAS * CAR RENTALS * REPAIRS 
* AMD TO WILD TOUR CREDIT RATING I rThie la the credit card Information kit etudenta have 
been reading about In publlcatlona fro« coast to 
coaat and lncludaa SPECIAL STUDENT APPLICATIONS 
for MaaterCard & Vlaa aa wall aa other national 
charge carda. Approval abeolutely guaranteed ao 
Hurry....fill out thla card today.... 
Your cradle carda ara waiting I
CREDITCETTKRtBOX 291584, DAVIE,FL 333291
YES! I want VIS^MasterCard^credit j 
cards. Enclosed find $15 which Is 100X | 
refundable if not approved immediately |
I
I 
INAME
ADOP6SS
CITYSTATEZIP
PHONESOC SECURITY •
SIGNATURE

---------------------------------------------------

With our Special Student Subscription Offer - Enjoy 8 Sunday Afternoon Concerts for only 528.
There's more to college than work and study. It's a time to live life to its 
fullest potential, and discover all the world has to offer.
For this reason, we've created a concert series just for you. Experience 
the best of The Pittsburgh Symphony without burdening your schedule 
or your budget.
For just S28 you can enjoy 8 Sunday Afternoon Concerts in Pittsburgh's 
own Heinz Hall. Thrill to the works of Mozart, Tchaikovsky, and 
Beethoven for only $3.50 a concert.
Take a look at the programs. They're evenly distributed (four concerts 
this semester, four concerts next semester), and designed to accom­
modate your finals' schedule.
Imagine, for less than the price of a movie, you can escape from the dai­
ly school routine, and get a taste of something completely different. The 
Pittsburgh Symphony.
Before Each Concert, Taste Pittsburgh's 
Finest Sunday Brunch Buffet.
Located right inside Heinz Hall, this "All you can eat'' buffet includes a 
vast array of salads, breakfast dishes, breads, main dishes and a 
wonderful assortment of desserts. Beverages, tax and tip are also in­
cluded for only $ 12.95. *
*Brunch reservations are made by calling 392-4887 or 392-4879, and 
giving your subscriber I.D. number.
ALL CONCERTS ARE ON SUNDAYS, AT 2:30
1985-86 Student Series
Oct. 13 Michael Lankester Conducts Mozart, Kolb, 
Debussy, and Janacek; with Guest Artist 
Jeffrey Siegal, piano
Oct. 20 Rudolph Barshai Conducts Tchaikovsky and 
Shostakovich; with Guest Artist Ivo 
Pogorelich, piano
Nov. 24 Yoshima Takeda Conducts Copland, Elgar, 
and Rachmaninov; with Guest Artist Jorge 
Bolet, piano
Dec. 1 Zdenek Macal Conducts Beethoven and 
Prokofiev; with Guest Artist Alexis 
Weissenberg, piano
Jan. 26 Herbert Blomstedt Conducts Weber, Bartók, 
and Brahms; with Guest Artist Malcolm 
Frager, piano
Mar. 2 Jean-Pierre Rampal Will Conduct and Per­
form Rossini, Bach, Mozart, and Beethoven
Mar. 30 Christoph Eschenbach Will Conduct and 
Perform Mozart and Brahms
Apr. 13 Rafael Fruehbeck de Burgos Conducts 
Dvorak and Rimsky-Korsakov
There are special Student discounts
available on other Symphony Concert
Series as well.
To order call: 392-4821
;¿r-'vW
Get a Taste of the Pittsburgh Symphony
The Pittsburgh Symphony 1985-86 Student Series
Method of Payment
? Check payable to The Pittsburgh Symphony Society
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts 
600 Penn Avenue,
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
? VISA ? MasterCard ? American Express
No. of Seats G at $28.00 each = $
SIGNATURE
NAME (PLEASE PRINT)
ADDRESS (AFTER SEPT. 1S)
PLEASE PRINT EXACT NAME THE CARO IS IN
SAVE TIME—ORDER BY PHONE CURRENT PHONE NUMBER STUDENT 1.0. NUMBER(412) 392-4821NAME OF SCHOOL
Monday thru Thursdays 9:00 a.m.—9:30 p.m.
THE PITTSBURGH Fridays 9:00 a.m.-5.-00 p.m. - Saturdays 9:30 a.m.-2:00 p.m. ALL SALES FINAL NO REFUNDS OR EXCHANGES
SYMPHONY Sunday* 5:00 p.m.—9:30 p.m. AB8

---------------------------------------------------

non
non
eluding Joe Negri, Nick Lomakin and His 
Dixie Flyers, and Streetheart. Also to be 
featured in the festivities will be an infor­
mal fuijashionjshow by Abravanel, mimes
and caricaturists, and chances to win 
epicurean prizes such as dinner at WPRHA 
restaurants.
This gourmet event begins Friday from
6-10 p.m., and runs Saturday from noon-10 
p.m. and Sunday from noon-6 p.m., under 
the tent at Station Square (near the Gateway 
Clipper Parking area.)
Features.
The Strip
Adventure cures pang of hungry but broke
Key
1. GRAND CONCOURSE2. CHEESE CELLAR3. BURGER KING4. DYNASTY (CHINESE)5. AMAZING GRACE6. TEQUILLA JUNCTION
7 . Hub! I HANS8. YOGERT WORKS9. BAHAMA MAM^10. FRANKIE C'S11. KIKU <JAPANESE)12. BOBBY RUBINO'S RIBS13. CHAUNCY'S
By RIC MEDROW
Interim Features Editor
You’re hungry for some good food, but the 
i finances are tight. Kiltie makes you 
nauseous; pizza makes you broke.
So you wander aimlessly down Craig 
Street, right on Herron Avenue, across a 
bridge, left on Liberty Avenue. Finally, as 
you glance down a side street, your eyes are 
shocked to see that 100 years or more have 
dropped away from the landscape. Instead 
of gas stations, convenience stores, etc., an 
old-fashioned marketplace opens up before 
you. You have found Pittsburgh’s Strip 
District on Penn Avenue.
to pull out a real leg and saws off two 
pounds.
Down Penn Ave. you go. A glance to the 
right at Smallman Street is a quick lesson
It doesn’t take you long to realize the 
prices are as anachronistic as the Strip. You 
stumble into Arabarie’s, specializing in Mid- 
Eastern foods. A Syrian doctor introduces 
himself as the proprietor. He explains that 
’ ' he is to push his goat meat because he still 
hasn’t found any tender enough. But his leg 
of lamb is “the best and cheapest in the ci­
ty,” at $2.79 lb. Shoulder and head meat are 
even cheaper, but the leg is most tender. Two 
pounds seem to be enough for a romantic 
dinner for two. The good doctor proceedsThe Strip on Penn Avenue has changed very little since the nineteenth Century.
in Steel City history. The cobblestone streets 
are interwoven with train tracks with 
warehouses on the right. If you go far 
enough down, you come to the Allegheny 
River. The origins of the Strip as a 
marketplace become obvious in view of the 
easy access.
That’s where the lesson ends. A loud 
voice barks, “Cantaloupes, four for a buck!” 
The old man behind the voice beckons to 
you, offering you a taste. Your mouth bursts 
with water as the sweetest of melons hits your 
tongue. “Aiello’s” it says above the door. 
Tomatoes, $1.29 a basket, com seven for 
$1.00, spanish onions $.39 a lb...
The next thing that catches your atten­
tion are some live sheep outside of a place 
called Wholely’s Market. With meat that 
fresh you can’t avoid going in.
The house specialty is seafood, obviously 
fresh — the guys behind the counter are busy 
cleaning fish. But if you don’t mind clean­
ing your own, you can get three fish for 
$1.00—spots, snapper blues, porgies. They 
also have mussels at $1.25 a lb., squid at 
$4.95 for five lbs., or chicken legs at $.69/lb.
There is a lot more to see, but the five- 
page paper is waiting to be written. Besides, 
you realize you have enough food to last a 
week. As you return home, you realize you’ve 
spent far less than the cost of a week on food 
contract. Just think of the suckers eating 
raw-in-the-middle, burnt-on-the-outside 
burger from the Tartan Grill.
Gourmet specialtiesLocal restaurants to sponsor food festival
STATION
SQUARE
Shops I g Restaurants
• By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Extravaganza is the only way to describe 
this weekend’s Fall Food Classic, sponsored 
by the Western Pennsylvania Restaurant and 
Hotel Association (WPRHA). The classic 
will take place September 13-15 under a tent 
at Station Square.
If you like to eat, this is the place for you. 
The Classic is designed to give Pittsburghers 
the opportunity to sample a smorgasbord of 
taste treats offered by area restaurants. The 
" * servings will be “snack size” and will range 
in price from 50 cents to $3.50.
“We hope that by offering many of our 
member restaurants’ specialties in just a taste 
of each one, Pittsburghers will be able to 
come for lunch, a full meal, or just for a 
snack or dessert,” says Mike Zeto, chairman 
of special events. The event costs $1.00 to get 
into the tent.
The event is being sponsored as another 
service of the 300-member WPRHA. “We’re 
hoping to gain exposure to future customers
• for all of the participants. What better way 
than to invite customers to sample our pro­
ducts?” said Dan Fleck, president of 
WPRHA.
There will be live music at the Classic, in-Area chefs gather to plan menu for Fall Food Classic.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—September 10, 1985
Tips from professional 
offered to travelers
3. Be sure to explain to your agent that 
you are looking for the least expensive fare 
available. (Sometimes slight changes in 
departure and return date will allow you to 
take advantage of discounted fares that 
would not be available to you otherwise.)
4. If you purchase your round-trip airline 
ticket thirty days in advance, you can often 
save dramatically. (There are some rather 
severe penalties and restrictions on these 
“ultimate supersavers,” though, so make sure 
the agent you speak with explains all of them 
to you before you purchase the ticket.)
5. Even if you purchase your ticket several 
days prior to departure, there may be dis­
counted fares available to you. Unlike the 
thirty-day advance purchase fares, these may 
not be accompanied by penalties for 
cancellation or change.
Get to the answers faster. With theTI'55'II.
What you need to tackle 
the higher mathematics of a 
science or engineering cur­
riculum are more functions - 
more functions than a simple 
slide-rule calculator has.
Enter the TI-55-II, with 
112 powerful functions. You 
can work faster and more 
accurately with the TI-55-II, 
because its preprogrammed
to perform complex calcula­
tions - like definite integrals, 
linear regression and hyper- 
bolics - at the touch of a 
button. And it can also be 
programmed to do repetitive 
problems without re-entering 
the entire îormula.
Included is the Calculator 
Decision-Making Sourcebook.
It makes the process of using
the TI-55-II even simpler, 
and shows you how to use all 
the power of the calculator.
Get to the answers faster. 
Let a TI-55-II Jj- 
show you how.
ENGY1
501-toBN0-1
Creating useful products 
and services for you.
By ELLANIE HERSHBERGER
Special to The Tartan
Plan ahead. It’s that simple. The best way 
to save not only money, time and disappoint­
ment in traveling is to do a little advance 
work. What you lose in spontaneity is more 
than compensated for by a good trip. Here 
are just a few tips that will start you in the 
right direction:
1. The single most important thing you 
can do if you plan to travel almost anywhere 
is to find a good travel agent. Airline 
deregulation has resulted in so many promo­
tions and discounts that it takes considerable 
time and attention just to keep up with them 
all. An agent will help you to sort through 
the maze of fares in the most efficient way, 
saving you time and probably also money.
2. To get the best results from your agent, 
plan ahead before you call. Be able to tell 
the agent what day and time you’d like to 
depart and return, how you plan to pay for 
the tickets, the upper limit you can spend 
for a vacation, telephone numbers where 
you can be reached in case of schedule 
changes or emergencies, credit card number, 
if you plan to use it, and so on. If you give 
your agent a call before you stop in, all the 
information you need can be gathered so you 
won’t have to wait for it —a nice timesaver 
for both of you.
6. Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year, 
and spring break are the most popular 
traveling times of the year. The sooner you 
call to plan your trip during these peak 
periods, the greater your chances of getting 
economical fares, non-stop flights and con­
venient flight times.
7. If you plan to vacation during peak 
periods, all-inclusive packages (airfare, 
hotel, transfers from airport to hotel, or ren­
tal car and even meals) are available to you, 
if you make plans and are prepared to pay 
for your vacation well in advance.
8. Take a look at your local newspaper 
and check for discounted fares, special pro­
motions, and package tours. Clip or make 
a note of any that might be helpful to you. 
Then mention these ideas to your agent, 
who can research things further for you, or 
offer alternatives that may be even more ap­
pealing to you.
Hair desia
'Extraordinary
Haircuts *14 to *16
Lewis’ sS"»»/109
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063
S i i 1 1 1 nn (i rig

---------------------------------------------------

tutertamment.
Yngwie Malmsteen and AC-DC tonight
By ANTHONY A. DATRI
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Tonight marks the return of rock legends 
AC-DC to the Civic Arena, with Yngwie 
Malmsteen opening.
The music world first heard from 
Swedish-bom Yngwie Malmsteen on a self­
titled import album from a band called 
Steeler. His virtuoso acoustic and electric 
guitar work brought him immediate atten­
tion, and his work on the first two Alcatrazz 
albums, No Parole From Rock TV’ Roll and 
Live Sentence brought him wide acclaim.
Hendrix:“I saw him on Swedish TV the day 
he died--September 18th, 1970. He made me 
think it was really cool to play guitar. Jimi 
became my hero type of guy; I wanted to be 
like him.” Yngwie’s similarity with Hendrix 
lies not only in virtuosity, but in dedication. 
Hendrix would play for hours every day, and 
Yngwie follows suit, sometimes playing so 
much that it inflames his fingers or wrist.
When asked about his musical influences, 
Yngwie lists more classical influences than 
rock ones. In the May 1985 issue of Guitar 
Player magazine, Yngwie said that “Hendrix,
His brand-new album, Marching Out 
shows his diversity and depth as a composer 
and producer, as well as a musician.. The 
album features Malmsteen on acoustic and 
electric guitars as well as background vocals 
and Moog guitar pedals, Jens Johansson on 
electric and acoustic keyboards, Anders 
Johansson on drums, Marcel Jacob on bass, 
and Jeff Scott Soto on vocals.
On the first album, Rising Force Soto ap­
peared on only two songs, and his voice was 
reminiscent of that of Joe Lynn Turner (late
Yngwie left Alcatrazz in 1984, and his first 
solo effort, Rising Force saw domestic release 
this spring.
Malmsteen’s style is strongly reminiscent 
of Uli Jon Roth’s work on the early Scorpions 
albums, and one can often detect the in­
fluence of Ritchie Blackmore as well. He 
also thinks very highly of Jimi Hendrix. 
When he was just seven years old, after he 
had already studied piano and trumpet, 
Yngwie was compelled to learn guitar. In the 
May 1985 issue of Guitar Player, he says of 
9
The Australian band AC —DC first ap­
peared on American vinyl in the early-mid 
seventies, and their early Powerage and 
High Voltage albums earned them many 
fans here. With the 1980 release of the 
platinum album Back in Black, AC-DC 
established themselves as one of the top 
bands of rock.
But the unfortunate death of Bon Scott, 
the powerful vocalist, bittered the album’s 
success. The band found a replacement in 
Brian Johnson, whose voice is remarkably 
similar to Scott’s, but somehow just isn’t the 
same. Bon Scott wasn’t really so much of a 
singer as a screamer, but his rough voice was 
believable and emotional.
AC-DC’s new album, Fly on the Wall, 
finds little change in AC-DC. Angus Young 
still thrashes on guitar, making up the 
chords as he goes, and Malcolm Young pro­
vides a solid rhythm guitar. Cliff Williams 
on bass and Simon Wright on drums make 
up a capable backbone for the band, yet 
Angus’ primal power chords often drown 
out their efforts. Young’s guitar playing in 
the late seventies was just as raw, but then 
it seemed kind of inspired, while on this 
album it seems as if he isn’t even paying at­
tention to what he is playing. Johnson could 
prove a better vocalist if he would put more 
emotion and less scream into his vocals.
AC-DC has a long history of making songs 
that are, shall we say, colorful, and this 
album is no change. What is surprising and 
perhaps a little ironic is that some of the 
most explicit songs are among the best 
musically on the disk: “Playing with Girls,” 
“Shake Your Foundations,” and the horribly 
titled “Sink the Pink.” Perhaps the best ef­
fort on the disk, though, is “Hell or High 
Water.”
Don’t get me wrong: this is certainly an 
album worth listening to. Just don’t expect 
to find another “You Shook Me” or “Hell’s 
Bells” here.
Bach, and Paganini are my main influences” 
and in the March 1984 issue “Extremely nice, 
beautiful melody things I get from Bach, 
but if you want extreme guitar playing, you 
should listen to Paganini. What this guy does 
with his violin in the Caprice No. 24 — that’s 
extreme. There is no guitar player in the 
world who can do that. His way of playing 
the violin was kind of the way I wanted to 
play guitar. That’s still a goal for me, 
actually—to play stuff that most rock 
guitarists have never done.”
Yngwie is the perfect counterexample for 
the people who view all rock musicians as 
high-school dropouts on drugs who are 
careless musicians. He pulls influences from 
baroque, classical, blues, and rock, and 
blends them in intriguing ways. Some have 
even called some of his work “Modern 
Classical.” Malmsteen’s notes range from lush 
and fluid to sharp and searing, but are 
always clean and clear. Even his “Special 
Thanks” on the back of the album bear his 
wide influences: he names as usual other 
rock musicians, such as Paganini, DaVin- 
ci, Vivaldi and Beethoven, as well as H.P. 
Lovecraft, the greatest supernatural horror 
author of all time.
of Rainbow and now solo), with a touch of 
Graham Bonnet, also late of Rainbow, now 
with Alcatrazz. On the new album, Soto’s 
voice appears more often, although the 
album is still largely instrumental. His voice 
has become richer and stronger, and now 
bears a strong resemblance to that of Iron 
Maiden’s Bruce Dickinson, although the 
Turner aspect is often still there. Marcel and 
Anders form a strong, yet not overpowering 
rhythm section, and Jens’ keyboard work is 
talented.
When you mention “keyboards” to a musi­
cian today, he is likely to think of the sterile, 
lifeless synths of bands like The Human 
League. Not so with this band. Jens appears 
as often on piano and harpsichord as on 
electric keyboards, and never falls to the 
mindless tones so prevalent today.
Yngwie Malmsteen is one of the best —if 
not the best—new guitarists on the scene to­
day, and his talent and classical influences 
are refreshing when compared to the stagna­
tion of the Eddie Van Halen school of 
thought. Yngwie has achieved a freshness 
and virtuosity at only 21 years of age that 
many of today’s established players will never
photo by Neil Zlozower
Yngwie Malmsteen draws from baroque 
and classical as well as from rock
reach. Go to the concert tonight, and you 
will agree.
Yngwie Malmsteen will appear at 4:00 this 
afternoon at the Oasis store in Oakland.Orchestal Manoeuvers in the Dark
By MIKE HALL
Special to The Tartan
WPTS and WRCT co-presented Or­
chestral Manoeuvres in the Dark at the Syria 
Mosque ballroom last Friday night. The 
concert was a high energy show with 
everyone on their feet, forcibly, since there 
were no seats. OMD played a good mix of 
old and new music with the whole crowd be­
ing excited by their newer songs while it was 
obvious that a sizable portion were familiar 
with their older material.
The following excerpts are from an inter­
view done by WRCT DJ’s Mike Usually and 
Jim T. with Andy McCluskey, who is one of 
the two original members of OMD. The 
complete interview was aired Friday at 3:30 
p.m. on WRCT 88.3 FM.
WRCT: Why did you come up with the 
name Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark, 
Andy?
Andy: The six million dollar question. The 
group itself started really almost as a dare. 
Myself and Paul Humphreys have been play­
ing songs that we’ve been writing since we 
were sixteen, and we played in the youth 
club bands and with friends and things. We 
headed off with a tape recorder and did this 
one concert in 1978. And since there were 
two guys and a tape playing synth playing 
songs that not even our best friends par­
ticularly like in a punk club, it was a pretty 
dumb idea, so we thought we needed a 
name that would make people realize that 
we’re not a punk band or an average rock
band. And Orchestral Manoeuvres in the 
Dark was the title of a song we had written 
when we were kids. That was why we pick­
ed the name for the band. It didn’t seem to 
matter; we were just going to do one con­
cert to prove to ourselves that we could do 
these songs on stage. And much to our 
amazement, people liked us, and we got 
another gig and another gig, and then we 
got a recording deal. So seven years later, 
we’re still stuck with the name we invented 
for one gig.
WRCT: You do a lot of sampling on the new 
LP, Crush, especially on “Bloc, Bloc, Bloc.” 
Can you tell our listeners what sampling is 
all about?
Andy: Okay, well, when we first started out 
we were using pretty simple synthesizers that 
would only play one note at a time, but as 
technology improved and as we actually sold 
some records and got some money, we’ve 
been buying what’s basically the new breed 
of synthesizers, which are instruments that 
sample acoustic sounds and will store a 
sound anywhere from two seconds to 17 
seconds long for the new emulator synths. 
It’s basically a recording machine. You 
record something into it, and then it will 
come up on one note, and it will transpose 
itself up and down. From one note you put 
in a sound then you can play it, and you’ve 
got the whole keyboard playing that sound. 
And you can do anything, anything — you 
can do your own voice, other instruments, 
anything.
WRCT: There’s some sampling on your new 
LP that, I think, lasts only a couple of 
seconds, but I heard you put hours and 
hours into it.
Andy: Well, the title track of the LP, 
“Crush” is based on a set of Japanese adverts 
that we recorded from the TV when we were 
in Tokyo. We collected about two and a half 
hours of things, and we had to wade through 
them to find little sections we liked and put 
them into our Fairlight, which not only 
samples, but also has a sequencer in it, and 
it will play up to eight different sounds at 
the same time. So we wrote on that the sort 
of sequence of little Japanese voices going 
’round and ’round, and from that, then, we 
created the song. It started out in a very 
abstract way, but it became, with the addi­
tion of instruments and vocals, a more con­
ventional type of song.
WRCT: A little bit on your background — 
were you taught piano when you were a 
child?
Andy: No, actually there’s no one in the 
band who’s a trained musician. I didn’t start 
playing guitar until I was sixteen. Then I 
started playing bass and I joined a band that 
Paul and his friends had formed and pretty 
quickly we realized that we two had more 
in common than I did with the other guys, 
and so after rehearsals, we used to stay 
behind making weird noises. Paul did have 
a bit of training in electronics; he's no Eins­
tein, but he sort of cobbled together these 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—September 10, 1985
*
coming 
soon!
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------——-—  
Summer movie season proves uneventful
science fiction movie in this summer’s undistinguished fare.Real Genius was better than the average 
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Summer is a big season for the film in­
dustry. For this slightly bleary-eyed filmgoer 
it was an average summer at the movies. 
There wasn’t any Ghostbusters this year, but 
then again there wasn’t a new Friday the 
Thirteenth gore-fest either.
The summer started big with a pair of 
cinematic superheroes: James Bond and
Rambo. The new 007 flick, A View to a Kill 
gave us tepid action-adventure with a tired, 
predictable plot, generally uninspired stunts, 
and a really bad title song by Duran Duran. 
Roger Moore must have been issued a 
License to Bore.
Rambo: First Blood Part Two was one of 
the summer’s biggest hits, far outgrossing its 
somewhat superior predecessor. 
Manipulating public sentiment as deftly as
a Reagan campaign commercial, Rocky— 
I mean Rambo — pitted Sylvester Stallone as 
an invincible and slightly psychotic Special 
Forces veteran against a whole lot of them 
little yellow slanty-eyed commie devils, plus 
a few commie devil Russkies for good 
measure. Rambo exploited America’s bit­
terness about the Vietnam War and equated 
patriotism with the skillful handling of a 
machine gun.
One action movie that succeeded in be­
ing both original and involving was Mad 
Max Beyond Thunderdome, the third in the 
series of movies about the post-apocalyptic 
road warrior portrayed by Mel Gibson. With 
great stunts, stylish cinematography, and 
even thoughtful screenplay, co-directors 
George Miller and George Ogilvie could 
teach the James Bond people a thing or two 
about adventure movie-making.
The summer movies are aimed primarily 
at the youth market, making mature movies 
sometimes hard to find. One delightful ex­
ception was John Huston’s Prizzi’s Honor 
with Jack Nicholson and Kathleen Turner. 
A black comedy about mafia contract 
killers, Prizzi’s Honor was darkly witty and 
one of the year’s best movies.
Less pleasing was St. Elmo’s Fire, a sort 
of Big Chill for the Pepsi Generation, about 
the trials and tribulations of a group of col­
lege grads facing the Real World for the very 
first time. A great cast including Emilio 
Estevez, Ally Sheedy, and Rob Lowe fails to 
overcome a weak script saddled with super­
ficial characterization and contrived 
plotting.
Every summer has more than its share of 
light comedies. The two that stood out this 
year were Pee-Wee’s Big Adventure and 
Fletch. Pee-Wee was a completely bizarre 
and completely hilarious movie about the 
indescribable man-child mutant Pee-Wee 
Herman on his cross-country odyssey in 
search of his bicycle. Weird but funny. Fletch 
featured Chevy Chase as a smart-assed in­
vestigative reporter. Chase’s wisecracks wore 
thin at times, but overall it was very funny.
This year teenage sex comedies seem to 
have been more or less supplanted by 
teenage science fiction comedies. Perhaps 
teenagers are bored with sex, though 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 1985—The Tartan—Page 11
Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark interview
continued from page 9
noise making gadgets, and so for the first 
year we would do these noise pieces that 
would have made the Residents sound like 
Madonna. So that’s how it started out with 
us writing songs when we were sixteen or 
seventeen.
WRCT: So you started out as a two man 
band and you’ve pretty much stayed that 
way?
Andy: Well, myself and Paul write the songs, 
but really for the past five years we’ve con­
sidered ourselves to be a four piece. We have 
a drummer, Malcolm, and another 
keyboard and sax player, Martin Cooper.
WRCT: Is that how many people you have 
on stage?
Andy: No. On stage there are six of us now, 
because we have the brass section. They ac­
tually are trained musicians. It’s great, 
because you can hand them other in­
struments when we run out of hands on stage 
and say, “Here, play this, play that.”
WRCT: Do you have any idea what’s in store 
for your future? Like how many people 
might you have, are you going to do 
anything interesting, are you going to add 
any new instruments?
Andy: I don’t really know. We never seem 
to have long term plans. That’s part of the 
fun of it. We don’t know what we’re going 
to do next. We don’t know what we’re going 
to sound like next year if we do another LP. 
The thing is with the access to these sampl­
ing machines, if you want a certain type of 
sound or you want an instrument which you 
yourself can’t play, either you go to a record
and sample a piece of it or the Fairlight 
comes with a huge selection of sounds: dou­
ble basses, strings, violins and saxophones. 
And they sound pretty much like the in­
struments you want, because they are actual 
recordings of real instruments; they’re not 
synthesized and created from scratch. A lot 
of things on the last couple of albums which 
have sounded like real brass or real double 
bass have all been from sampling machines.
WRCT: But on stage you stick to the real 
brass?
Andy: Yeah, well, we thought that it would 
be a nice idea if we were going to use brass 
to have brass on stage.
WRCT: What about “Tesla Girls”? What’s 
the story behind that one?
Andy: We became quite fascinated a while
ago with a guy called Nicola Tesla, who was 
a Yugoslavian scientist, who, without boring 
you with all the details, was basically the 
father of modern electricity. He gave us the 
practical use of alternating current. So, if 
you like, a Tesla Girl is basically any female 
of the species who has ever switched on a 
light or watched TV or used a hair dryer— 
that pretty much covers most women since 
the turn of the century.
newmusic newmusic newmusic
By DR. CALIGARI
Special to The Tartan
After Terry Hall’s illustrious career in The 
Specials and The Fun Boy Three he decid­
ed that MOR was the way to go. Now comes 
the domestic release of the debut album 
from The Colour Field Virgins and 
Philistines. It’s tinged with a bit of folk and 
psychedelia on a few songs including, ‘Can’t 
Get Enough of You Baby” with music ex­
tremely similar to “96 Tears” by ? and The 
Mysterians. More than anything though it’s 
the overdose of prettiness that hits the 
listener. Such an overdose of pretty sounds, 
in fact, that the listener is compelled to a 
state of near nausea. Don’t get me wrong 
though —this is not an entirely worthless 
album. In fact, several songs are quite good: 
“The Colourfield,” ‘Take,” and “Pushing Up 
Daisies” among others. However, most of the 
decent songs have already been released as 
singles. If you like sweet (and I do mean 
sweet), pretty music then you will probably 
like this album. But if you liked Terry Hall 
when he was ska or even world beat then 
you’ll probably be severely disappointed. At 
best, it’s movie theme music and it’s definite­
ly on the way to American MOR acceptance.
The latest album by Nico, Camera 
Obscura,has recently been released. John 
Cale produced it, and as all you Velvet 
Underground fans know, John and Nico 
have been working together ever since they 
met in that band. Since then, Nico has 
become widely recognized as the original 
gothic singer, influencing groups such as 
Bauhaus and Siouxie and The Banshees. On 
her latest album we find her backed by The 
Faction and performing music that is 
ambient but with very strong Middle Eastern 
rhythms. The music coupled with Nico’s 
deep, eerie voice presents a moody, almost 
Halloween type of atmosphere. Several songs
particularly stand out: “Camera Obscura,’ 
“Tananore,” and her rendition of “My Fun 
ny Valentine” which is superb. The albun 
is excellent and is heartily recommended
* # #
Leading rumor of the month: no mort 
hardcore shows at The Electric Banana. Ap 
parently their neighbors are tired of the in 
flux of fans. 7 Seconds was supposedly th< 
last hardcore band to play there.
• • •
This column will be brought to you even 
week by a member of the staff of WRCT 
The opinions expressed here are those of thf 
author, and have no relevence to 10:47 pm
Summer movie season
continued from page 10
somehow I doubt it. Nevertheless, June and 
July brought us a trio of seemingly in­
distinguishable science fiction comedies: 
Weird Science, My Science Project, and Real 
Genius, plus three teen-adventure flicks from 
Steven Spielberg’s production company, 
Amblin’ Entertainment: Back to the Future, 
The Goonies, and Explorers. Back to the 
Future was by far the best of the lot, a fun­
ny, upbeat story about a time-traveling 
teenager (solidly portrayed by Michael J 
Fox) who finds himself in the 50’s and must 
play matchmaker to his parents or else he 
will never be bom. Not nearly as good as 
Back to the Future I but better than the res 
was Real Genius, about a group of brain} 
students at a Cal Tech-type school who foi: 
a nasty government plot to build a lasei 
weapon.
NATIONALUNITED SAVINGS ASSOCIATES
U$AIT'S WAITING FOR YOU!
TM
CARO MUST BE PRESENTED BEFORE ORDERING MOSE SERVICES 
NOT VAL IO ON SPECIAL SALE MOSE SERVICES
SEE BACK FOR SAVINGS
A very special little card is waiting for you. It will mean keeping $$$ in 
your pocket!, Local businesses are offering terrific discounts to Carnegie- 
Mellon students, faculty, and staff. The card is free to you. Pick up yours 
at the Skibo Information Desk Monday through Friday 9:00 a.m.—5:00 p.m. 
Take a look at the card that's going to stretch your dollars:
Bafelaad2120 Murra» «M (SQ H* S2M0S7 ION olt purckaM * batti al our locatoro BAGElSCMa»-caass«Nrs• 4203 Murra* Aw aHAoc SMt fewr* Hdi 521 620 20\ «ft con pMM »«Mi and Im« En EMMS Fullcamcr uw» gnwct Pt«*«
SfQMOMD IT STUOflT ACTIVITIES CMMMMUMI [Viet St PH IMI M IN
naie I eaawurr the coount mIm 730 Copeland SI Snadtw* 621 0774 Ottenni Sfett Solarium Tannm* Rod for fl« la« ol Ma |100 Off________
MM CUB - 40t Sort* Cra« SI 2nd ft OaMlM. 421HAI* umQut Han Oaufm tor 2BBr 4 Max 42 00 0*1 Am Same* WaM ins
TM (Uct M4HS HS1MMMT 4 lOIMGf 114MmdSt OtMaad 121 M44 lOtoft*
2» Hu Map» Wont EuanMat
SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES
•w 2 tacn at 2 lurries and pi a UMl dnftt
MW KIM PUkCf 5624 taw* 4M • id«»IM0M 4(7 1020 lOtaftanpwckaaMai 5MJU f ¿0 4 tWHUM 11 00 mh ta iwdmaW 7 Paw, eB laànùiardatl «mutue MUNCH
wp* EETI unique ta* tiaofl eatery 4445707 $2 00 oft an» Huftod più • 41 OOaft ant tornar Riua KST DESSERTS M PITTOUHG»t M 4 MOTS N0MMM ICI CMM 207 Antood Siraot 411 MOC 10S dneowft an teaCium Cones Shiks loYaB1 2K5nd ec2f2buf COKtS Mandat 'hurcdot 11 30 11 00. fndp» 11 30-12001 SMwdot 1 »1*00 Sundat 100-1100TM MICt IS MCI 21** Atawd SHtWrt « ma OocaM Oaatand 6134479 10S a* antr.stBCfc'iftCflMt“ jfwilry'f sii Nsb-Swoluftf biiYr.tic
( UUMT 4 CMftl «04.<*¿410 Som«* SM 0MUAN0 M 647 HO 20ka«a*ri jn tailMn Wf mentkmcamc KfOM OROtRMG frw DatoviMWKifMn 4 OMKUl M «IMMUmflMKM Map» OaMandMattali So H* 441 7*62'521 7500 in ftxoum on ai» mt «—» no «fount on wn •areica Good M tacafcansMI (MCnan DOMI «OC farta Ma OoMond 6214476 C« IW 4 ta IM 0«MM an part 4 ««* MUTTI CM 4 KNM 44 7 06» ___.__
MRTISI OA LOOT 0 0 0 3 700 ' «ft Ma SuM SltOaMand 4142115 MTMOOUCTOirr Of fit CJoanmt ..an and ¡.ammanar 425 00 (150 tatuai Eoantnp aoadaMa EmarfandM
5210S41 10% a* an ianüStaTÜTta mocM ata> »40 pa Mandat fndat
TM mut mSkap kaka» S«uart M2 M76 10* a* M aamcoi 20* aft in Mandar» 4 ftMaiFWItfi Mt CUMKM 4 MiflM MC 4401 fartai Ma 4K 1 M3 !Q*aftQr>Claon n|aft*» Cictodat laundrt wodai la altar» 4

---------------------------------------------------

Sunday, September 15 
2pm Flagstaff Hill
FREE
Rain Location, CMU Gym
ABC Jon certs AND
in conjunction with Citiparks—presents—
An Afternoon With 
SPYRO GYRA

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
FINAL SCORE
CMU 31 
Duquesne 10
First place finisher, freshman Pat Noll.
Hensel sets up on line of scrimmage. photo by Erik Horn
X-C ties national record
continued from page 1
The heat and humidity were not so kind 
to some of the other runners. Due to injuries 
and the weather, Coach Gary Meckley had 
instructed the runners to go out slow. Even 
with this strategy, many runners came in 
weak and some with the shakes. Sophomore 
Paul Carnine said, “The humidity killed us. 
Optimal running conditions are about 50 
degrees and a cool drizzle.” One Geneva run­
ner passed out with heat exhaustion on the 
top of Flagstaff Hill. An ambulance and 
paramedics were summoned for assistance.
The Women’s Cross-Country team did 
equally as well at the meet, placing First and 
second in the race with competitors coming
only from Robert Morris and Duquesne. 
Francesca Candell, with a time of 19.21 and 
Margaret Wismer, 20.11 led the team to their 
win under the auspices of Coach Donna 
Pecman.
This record-setting meet was also covered 
by USA Today and a local television station. 
The Tartans will attempt to break the record 
with win number 67 on September 14 at 
Bethany College, who they have beaten 
solidly for the past several years. The team 
will appear at home again on October 19 at 
11:00 am against St. Francis College and 
Youngstown State. Races take place on 
Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park.
Mike Minjock leads in strong rushing effort
Big Red Tartans take Duquesne 31-10 in Season Opener
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The CMU Tartans are big red in the city. 
For the fifth time in six years, CMU has won 
that distinction by defeating the Duquesne 
Dukes, 31-10
The Tartans were led by a very potent run­
ning game, finishing with 399 yards on 53 
carries for an average of 7.5 yards a carry.
absorbed the oppressive heat all day long. 
Game time temperature was 90 degrees, so 
fresh players were a tremendous advantage. 
Dukes coach Terry Russell went most of the 
game with the same players, who were worn 
down by repeated CMU substitutions.
CMU’s top rusher was halfback Mike Min­
jock, who gained 122 yards on nine carries, 
averaging 13.5 yards per carry, including a 
64-yarder and a 29-yarder. Four runners had 
over 70 yards for CMU.
The defense performed very well, limiting 
Duquesne to 72 yards rushing and sacking 
Duke quarterback John Klinkner five times 
for losses of 50 yards. Everyone on the defen­
sive line played exceptionally well, especially 
tackles Ken Harris, Carl Montalbano, Tony 
Mozeleski and nose tackle Dale Kording. 
The linemen made it a tough night for 
Klinkner, who completed just 13 of 33 passes, 
and was forced to throw many passes away 
to avoid several other sacks.
Duquesne was on the board first, driving 
down the field for a 29-yard field goal by 
Matt Cramer. CMU came back as Mike 
Hensel found Dave Richards with a bomb 
on fourth-and-long, but the touchdown was 
called back on a clipping penalty. CMU 
looked sloppy in the early going. The Tar-
photo by Erik Horn
opener is this Saturday against the Bucknell 
Bisons. Bucknell is a Division-IAA team... 
Victor Boland ran for 70 yards on 13 car­
ries, and caught three passes for 49 yards... 
Freshman Robert Arthur had an intercep­
tion in his first game as a Tartan... backup 
quarterback Joe Mollica has apparantly won 
the punters job. Mollica averaged 34.3 yards 
on six kicks... Carnegie-Mellon is eighth 
the NCAA in winning percentage over the 
past decade, and fourth in Division III. They 
have a record of 74-17-2, and .806 percen­
tage. Just ahead of them is BYU (.811), just 
behind them is Oklahoma (.796)... the win 
moves Klausing ahead of Barry Switzer into 
second place among active coaches in win­
ning percentage with a 117-24-2 record.
Dave Richards returns kickoff as Duquesne’s Martella comes in for a hit.
tans committed nine penalties for 88 yards, 
and Hensel threw three interceptions, two 
by Duquesne safety Jim Parey. These are 
mistakes CMU cannot afford against 
Bucknell, next week’s opponent, who 
defeated the Tartans 42-7 last season.
The Tartans scored late in the first quarter 
as Hensel threw his first TD pass, ten yards 
to newcomer Don Fleming. CMU took that 
7-3 lead into halftime, and took control in 
the second half. Tim Denmeade, who 
averaged 5.5 yards on six carries, ran 15 
yards around the right end, led by a crun­
ching block by Cam Poluszek and Ed 
Gallagher, into the end zone to increase the 
CMU lead to 14-3.
Hensel continued the scoring with a one-
yard run after Minjock’s 64-yard romp. Mike 
Nazzaro kicked a 40-yard field goal to make 
the score 24-3.
Duquesne scored with 2:01 left in the 
game when receiver Robert Hinton caught 
a Hail Mary pass from Klinkner for a 
35-yard touchdown.
The final score for the Tartans was 
perhaps the most interesting. Nick Klipa, 
the third quarterback used by Klausing, and 
Billy Cramer had trouble with a handoff. 
The ball got loose in the backfield, flying 
high in the air. Cramer picked up a perfect 
turf hop and burst throught the line, run­
ning untouched into the end zone for a 
49-yard TD.
Tartan Tattlers—The Tartans home

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—September 10, 1985
This Week in Tartan Sports
September 10
Soccer; Away against Pitt-Johnstown 3:30 
pm.
September 11
Women’s Tennis; Away against Pitt 3:30
September 14
Football; Home against Bucknell 1:30 pm
Cross-Country; Away against Bethany Col 
lege 11 am.
Women’s Cross-Country; Away, California 
Invitational 11 am.
Women’s Volleyball; Away 
Duquesne, Waynesburg, 
State (McKeesport) at Duquesne
September 16
Women’s Tennis; Home against St. Fran 
cis College 4 pm.__________________________
LIST OUR
MODEL CALCULATORS PRICE PRICE 
HP-I1C Slim-Line Scientific 75 00 59.95
HP-12C Advanced Financial 120 00 89.95
HP-15C Advanced Scientific 12C 00 89.95
HP-16C Digital Programmer 120 00 89.95
HP-41CV Handheld Computer 225 00 165.00 
HP-41 CX Handheld Computer 325 00 245.00 
HP-718 Handheld Computer 525 00 395 00
All calculators in stock for same 
day delivery. Call for prices on 
products not listed
COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS
CALL TOLL FREE 800 621 1269 
EXCEPT ILLINOIS ALASKA
ELEK TEK ir
HEWLETT 
PACKARD
DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS SUPPLY
699 Seneca St.
Buffalo, NY 14210Call: (716) 854-0004
Seidl and Pecman take on 
lax CMU women's athletics
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Two key personnel changes took place in 
the women’s athletic department at CMU 
this summer, a sign that women’s sports are 
gradually gaining in recognition.
Gerri Seidl, women’s basketball and 
women’s track coach, was appointed Direc­
tor of Women’s Intramural Athletics. Swim­
ming coach Donna Pecman took on a second 
position as coach of the new women’s cross­
country team.
“It was something necessary,” said Seidl of 
her latest appointment. “There are not a lot 
of women involved in intramural athletics 
(at CMU). In the past we’ve also had a pro­
blem with women’s teams not showing up for 
scheduled games. We have to get everyone 
more involved.”
Last year, Seidl took on her new coaching 
duties at CMU with a group of young, inex­
perienced athletes. She taught them to 
uphold a competitive spirit, while always 
remembering to enjoy themselves. Her 
players and other coaches on the CMU staff 
were impressed with her teaching methods.
Donna Nyzio, a junior who Seidl describes 
as being “very energetic and dedicated,” will 
serve as commissioner of women’s intramural 
athletics. Under Nyzio, Seidl wishes to 
develop a group of coordinators similar to 
that of the men’s intramural board.
“We have to get people invloved in respon­
sible positions who want to put their time 
in,” remarked Seidl. “We want to establish 
a few leagues reserved solely for women, but 
we also want to cooperate with the men’s 
teams. We have to get everyone to do their 
share.”
Donna Pecman was pleased to accept the 
challenge of leading the newly established 
women’s cross-country team this fall. As 
CMU’s swimming coach, she has gained 
respect in coaching a team comprised of 
both men and women to hard-fought vic­
tories against some stiff competition.
“I’m hoping to rely on the advice of Gary 
Meckley (the men’s cross-country coach) to 
some extent,” commented Pecman. “Our 
main problem is gaining notoriety for the 
team. We have a lot of runners who are in­
terested, but there are some who are not 
totally committed. We are currently trying 
to get them out there to compete.”
Pecman will probably rely on experi­
enced upperclassmen, many of which have 
competed on the women’s spring track team. 
Seniors such as Sue Haugh will be responsi­
ble for providing leadership, while Pecman 
hopes to gain some strength from promis­
ing freshmen prospects such as Francesca 
Candell.
“The competition will be tough, but we 
can’t worry about that at the present time. 
Getting the girls to come out and compete 
is the hard part,” said Pecman.
This Wednesday, September 11 at 4:30 
pm is the last call for Intramural Touch 
Football entrants. There will be a rules clinic 
held at the same time in Thistle Hall. Games 
begin Monday, September 16. Each team 
must have a representative at this important 
rules meeting.
The E.J. Birdy Open Intramural Golf
Tournament will be held Sunday September 
29 at the Schenley Park Course. Sign up in 
the IM Office in Room 101 at the gym.
Touch Football Officials are needed for 
a weekend league. Payment is $6.00 per 
game. If interested, contact E.J. Birdy at 
x2214 or Macy Kisilinsky at her office; 
421-2626, or at home; 421-1003.
Unibed Wäy
New players bring new 
hope for CMU Baseball
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
As the major league season draws to a 
close, the CMU Baseball team is just begin­
ning its fall campaign. Between 35 and 40 
players are trying out for the team, and 
while that number should diminish 
somewhat, there may be a change in the 
Tartans’ historically dismal fall fortunes.
Of those 35-40 players trying out, 20 are 
newcomers, including 15 freshmen.
Those newcomers will be necessary to fill 
holes present in coach William Allen’s 
ballclub. The graduation of outfielder Larry 
Ropelewski was one of the most severe losses. 
Although unsure of who was to replace 
“Roper”, Allen did note that there would be 
a gap. “Larry has led the club in homers over 
four years,” noted Allen.
The most likely candidates to fill the 
power gap will be the “Chem-E Connection”, 
a group of three seniors who share a com­
mon major. “It’ll be me, Theg and 
Yankovich providing the power,” noted con­
nection component Steve Orlando, a view 
seconded by Coach Allen.
Another likely place to see fresh faces in 
action is in the middle of the infield. 
Although Allen cited depth at second and 
shortstop, the team will be hurt by the, at 
lei st temporary, loss of second baseman and 
te?Ti captain, John Spanos. Spanos suffered 
a soccer injury over the summer. Shortstop
is also up for grabs, since starter Jeff 
Bergman has graduated. A player likely to 
move up into one of those positions is Bruce 
Nibbelink, who Coach Allen praised as “one 
of the best all-around ball player’s I’ve work­
ed with.”
One significant change from last year is 
that Coach Allen is happy about the quali­
ty of pitching at his disposal. The heart of 
the staff is Rich Hall, a primary starter last 
fall, plus seniors Dom Colangelo and Dan 
Burgundy.
On the comers, it’s Steve Orlando at first 
base, while third base is the likely domain 
of John Waugaman. In the outfield, 
sophomore Paul Masalsky, while not a 
powerful hitter, is likely to be a regular.
The Tartans have their most depth at the 
catcher’s position. Senior Rich Theg is the 
returning starter, although it is likely he will 
see more time in the outfield than behind 
the plate this year. Behind him are 
sophomores Rick Duvall, who played often 
in the spring, and Rick Fetterman.
The baseball team has a schedqle of 
twelve games this season, of which six are 
home. The team was scheduled to start its 
season last Thursday, but was unable to do 
so due to poor field conditions. The next 
home game is on Thursday, September 12, 
against Mount Aloyius, a first-time oppo­
nent. All the home games are scheduled to 
be played at Mellon Field, 5th and Penn 
Avenues.
EL 551070PC 1350A135
EL 5500T70PC 1 50QA150
EL 552085CE 1251 19
PC 1250A70CE126P55
PC 126075CE 1501 50
PC 1 261135
CALCULATORS
HP-11C Scientific...............58
HP-12C Financial...............90
H P-15C "Sfcientific...............90HP-16C Programmer . 90
"“¡¿¿T FREE! 5SZT
NewAdvante^e 
software module f rorn^l|Sf 
HP with the purchase of 
any HP-41 at Elektek 
Offer ends 11/15/85,
HP- 71B Computer____399
Optical Wand .........................95
Card Reader.......................145
Printer (82143A).............283
HP-IL Module...........................95
Dig. Cassette Drive ... 400
HP-IL Printer ..................335
Think Jet Printer.................375
9114A Dtsk Drive...........800
•While limited supplies last.
HEWLETT PACKARO

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 1985—The Tartan—Page 15
Pirates renovate for1985 pennant race
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Although the Pirates’ record does not dif­
fer much from last year, the composition of 
their team does. Pittsburgh has finally stop­
ped trying to acquire spare parts for its 1979 
team and has decided to invest in a newer 
model. And it’s about time.
Longtime Pirate general manager Joe 
Brown, returned to the post after the depar­
ture of much-criticized Harding Peterson, 
had commenced a gradual housecleaning. 
It was designed to cut the payroll as much 
as to revitalize the team. Gone, is high pric­
ed disappointment George Hendrick. 
Riding the bench are Steve Kemp, who com­
mands a hefty salary, but is hitting under 
.240, and Sixto Lezcano, who has been 
equally unimpressive.
Most shockingly, the Bucs disposed of 
three members of their 1979 World Cham­
pionship “family.” Former stopper Kent 
Tekulve now hurls for the Phillies, where he 
was sent in exchange for A1 Holland (since 
dealt to California). John Candelaria was 
dealt with Holland to the Angels, where he 
had a record of 4-1, giving California need­
ed pennant insurance. Serving in a similar 
role on the other side of L. A. is slugger Bill 
Madlock, traded last week to the Dodgers. 
Ironically, one of the players sent to the 
Giants for “Mad Dog” in 1979 was the same 
A1 Holland who was disposed of in the same 
housecleaning that sent Madlock west.
With Brown’s latest round of trades, the 
only active players left on the Pirates from 
1979 are all pitchers: Rick Rhoden, Don 
Robinson, and Rod Scurry.
There are other youngsters in the outfield, 
Mike Brown, one of the players from the 
Angels traded for Candelaria, is highly 
touted and has hit over .300 since moving 
to the National League. Also seeing con­
siderable playing time, mostly at the expense 
of Kemp, is Denny Gonzalez, recently call­
ed up from Hawaii.
So what of the new guards who now patrol 
Three Rivers stadium? The brightest star 
among them is outfielder Joe Orsulak. He 
served three unspectactular tenures with 
Pittsburgh last season, but is now batting 
above .280 and has proven to be a valuable 
leadoff man for manager Chuck Tanner.
Two other newcomers are seeing con­
siderable playing time. Shortstop Sammy 
Khalifa has shown himself to be a more than 
capable fielder, and has been the starter 
since July. Pat Clements, a relief pitcher ac­
quired with Brown, has been a pleasant sur­
prise, jumping off to a 5-0 start before los­
ing to the Astros 2-0 on August 23.
The Madlock trade brought three more 
youngsters to the Pirates organization. Out­
fielder R.J. Reynolds is the one with the most 
major league playing time, and should be 
the one to help the Bucs the fastest. Sid 
Bream, a first baseman-outfielder from 
Carlisle, PA, will not join Pittsburgh im­
mediately. This is also the case with Cecil 
Espy, a shortstop serving Dodgers’ AA Texas 
league affiliate. Look for both in spring 
training next year.
Ten of this season’s 40 rostered players 
were brought up from Hawaii by Chuck 
Tanner. Among them are Rafael Belliard,
who played himself out of a starting spot this 
spring and Mike Bielecki, a pitcher who suf­
fered problems in Pittsburgh earlier in the 
year.
With the Pirates firmly committed to 
youth, where does this leave the remaining
The Camegie-Mellon University lacrosse 
team turned in a stellar performance at 
home on May 3rd to end its 1985 rebuilding 
season with its first winning record.
The Tartans trounced Slippery Rock 
State College by a score of 15-5 as they con­
stantly applied the pressure and commited 
very few mental errors. The defense, led by 
tri-captain Dan Cohen and freshman goalie 
sensation Tom Gilmore, held Slippery Rock 
to just three goals until allowing a pair 
within the last two minutes, after the out­
come had been decided. The midfield was 
spearheaded by captain John Rickert and by 
first year standout Bill Heiser who controll­
ed the faceoffs and game tempo along with 
veteran Scott Johnson. The entire midfield 
corps, including Todd Giles, Andy Phillips 
and Gregg Rentko, physically dominated 
Slippery Rock and never allowed them to get 
into their game plan. The attack followed 
the rest of the team’s lead and played its best 
game of the season with Merrice Spencer 
paving the way along with Roy Teresky, who 
had a career high seven goals and three 
assists.
The victory brought the lax team’s season 
record to 6 wins against 4 losses and second 
place in only their third year of league play. 
A 5-0 record on its home field showed the
veterans? Look for Kemp and Lezcano to be 
disposed of in the off-season, while one or 
both former Mets Lee Mazzilli and Marvell 
Wynne may also be gone. Jason Thompson 
should be back next year, along with Pirate 
keys Tony Pena and Johnny Ray, and most 
of the pitching staff.
team is capable of dominating its opponents 
if it plays up to its potential.
The Tartans will graduate only one 
player, attackman Steve Hasselman, who 
ran the man-up offense and served as a 
stabilizing force when situations became 
hectic. The team regrets losing its one year 
coach, Irwin Klein to a job transfer. He pro­
vided the nucleus for the teams turnaround 
and acted as a motivator. The lacrosse team 
is looking for a strong incoming class of 
players to augment its talent-laden roster 
of such other key athletes as Mike Zawrot- 
ny, John Rentzepis, Adrian Van Stolk, 
Bruce Keilan, Dave Goldman, Tim Farrel, 
Mitch Weintraub, and Alex Biagoli.
The tri-captainship of Dan Cohen, who 
led the team in penalties, late hits and other 
necessary misdemeanors, John Rickert, who 
had an exceptional first year at the midfield 
postition and ended up the team’s second 
leading scorer and Roy Teresky who led the 
team in scoring for the second straight year, 
will all be returning and hope to stake a 
claim to first place.
Anyone interested in playing lacrosse who 
has either some experience or a good deal 
of dedication and enthusiasm, should con­
tact Dan at Kappa Sigma or John and Roy 
at Beta Theta Pi.
Lax takes SRU in season finale
GET ON THE RIGHT 
TRACK TO A 
SCHOLARSHIP
Earning the gold bars of an Air Force officer is one 
track to the road of success. Air Force ROTC provides 
the opportunity. And, you may be eligible to compete 
for a full scholarship which pays for tuition, books, 
fees and $100 each academic month.
Combined with your college degree, you’re headed 
toward a challenging and rewarding future as an Air 
Force officer. Air Force officers manage vital engineer­
ing projects, pilot and navigate aircraft, and supervise 
important programs. But it all starts with Air Force 
ROTC.
Don’t settle for anything less. For a scholarship. For 
your future. Get on the right track. Talk to:
Captain Carter, Porter Hall 15
578-8747
AIR FORCE
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.
Tit’

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—September 10, 1985
Lewis previews the coming NFL season
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan EdUor-in-Chief
Predicting how the National Football 
League season is going to end up is hard, 
if not stupid. Pre-season games mean 
nothing, and in recent years many teams 
have risen from the dead, and many have 
fallen from Super Bowl to Super Bad. But 
with opening day just past, I will give it a 
shot. Here is the 1985 National Football 
League Preview.
American Football Conference 
Eastern Division
Miami Dolphins — The most important 
day in Miami’s season was in pre-season. 
When Dan Marino showed up in camp, the 
Dolphins clinched the division.
The Dolphin defense is banged up a bit, 
but young legs such as Lorenzo Hampton 
have joined the offensive backfield, and 
within Marino’s arm (48 touchdown passes 
in ‘84) the offense should overcome any 
defensive lapses. The key for the Dolphins 
is that the rushing leader should have more 
than 606 yards, Woody Bennett’s team 
leading total of last year.
New England Patriots — A blossoming 
young team that should challenge for the ti­
tle and should at least win a wild card berth. 
Quarterback Tony Eason had a great year, 
throwing for 23 TD’s and only eight in­
terceptions. He is young and healthy. His of­
fensive line must play better in front of him 
if he is going to stay healthy and be produc­
tive (see Phil Simms).
The running game should prosper under 
new coach Raymond Berry. Craig James (790 
yards in 84) and Tony Collins (1,000 yards 
in ’83) should run free after Berry reinstated 
the two-back offense. A big offensive key is 
Irving Fryar.
The defense is led by rushing linebacker 
Andre Tippett (18V4 sacks). The young 
secondary must improve to stop Marino and 
the Dolphins.
Indianapolis Colts — New Coach Rod 
Dowhower is another bright, new offensive 
mind. He’s got a new, bright quarterback in 
Art Schlichter, who sometimes uses those 
smarts in the wrong way. If running back 
Curtis Dickey runs like he can and stays out 
of Dowhower’s dog house, he and leading 
rusher Randy McMillan (705 yards, 5 TD’s) 
make a formidable pair.
The defense should improve with the ad­
dition of linebacker Duane Bickett.
New York Jets — Some people pick the 
Jets for second. Why? They’re new 3-4 
defense may limit their pass rush. They 
dropped veterans Greg Buttle and Darrol 
Ray. Thay have no offensive tackles, with 
perennial all-pro Marvin Powell and Reggie 
McElroy holding out. Their number one 
draft pick, wide receiver A1 Toon, is holding 
out and is re-enrolled at Wisconsin.
Their quarterback is Ken O’Brien, very 
inexperienced and unproven. Even Bobby 
Humphrey, the NFL’s leading kickoff 
returner, is out. This team may have a good 
future, but the present is very dim.
Buffalo Bills — The Bills will never have 
a good passing game at home because of the 
wind. Vince Ferragamo hasn’t had a really 
good year in several seasons. Greg Bell is a 
good young back, and Joe Cribbs should be 
a good back for the Bills instead of the 
Stallions this year. The running game should 
be decent.
The defense, even with #1 pick Bruce 
Smith, is sad. If it doesn’t improve, last year’s
2-14 record may be better than this year, and 
“coach Kay Stephenson” will become “former
coach Kay Stephenson.”
Central Division
Pittsburgh Steelers—A balanced offense 
and a big play defense will make the Steelers 
a force to be reckoned with all over the 
NFL, not just in the Central Division.
Mark Malone has a great pair of receivers 
in Louis Lipps and John Stallworth, and a 
couple of good runners in Walter Aber­
crombie and Frank Pollard. The defense is 
led by outside linebacker Mike Merriweather 
and nose tackle Gary Dunn.
This division does not get the respect it 
should. From top to bottom, it is much bet­
ter than the AFC East, and almost as good 
as the West.
Cincinatti Bengals—The return of Chris 
Collinsworth and Dan Ross from the USFL 
will give the Bengals and Ken Anderson a 
good pass attack. James Brooks and Larry 
Kinnebrew should be a good backfield. But 
the Bengals defense is a big question, and 
can’t match up with the Steeler receivers. 
A good young team in a division of good 
young teams.
Cleveland Browns—The team of the future 
with QB Bemie Kosar. For now, the Browns 
will win a few with veteran QB Gary 
Danielson and a very stingy defense led by 
Chip Banks and Clay Matthews. If the 
Browns running game is worth anything, the 
Browns may surprise.
Houston Oilers—An offense with Warren 
Moon and Mike Rozier should be exciting. 
Look for a few upsets, but nothing major 
until they solidify their defense.
Western Division
Seattle Seahawks—This is a team that went 
12-4 last season with a running game that 
featured David Hughes (327 yards). Former 
all-pro Curt Warner is back after last
season’s knee surgery.
The Seahawks strength is defense, led by 
strong safety Kenny Easley (10 interceptions) 
and Jeff Bryant (14 V6 sacks). They are my 
choice to win the AFC title.
Los Angeles Raiders—I wish the Raiders 
would let Marc Wilson be the quarterback. 
With Cliff Branch gone, the receivers may 
have trouble, but the USFL refugee and ex- 
Steeler Jim Smith should help
The defense is the best in football against 
the pass and strong against the run, with 
ends Howie Long and Lyle Alzado leading 
the rush while Lester Hayes and Mike 
Haynes cover the wide outs. I just don’t 
think they have enough to match Seattle’s 
diversification.
Kansas City Chiefs—The most underrated 
quarterback in the NFL is the Chiefs Bill 
Kenney. Kenney has help this year in rookie 
tailback Ethan Horton. The defense gets 
burned a lot, but they make a lot of big 
plays. They always win games they 
shouldn’t, but have trouble with the “lesser” 
teams. They could be very good.
Denver Broncos—This is a great division. 
Sammy Winder, who ran for 1153 yards is 
out for most of the season, and the Broncos 
don’t have a balanced offense without him.
The defense is great, forcing 55 turnovers 
last year, and John Elway will have his best
year. But in this division, a team has to 
to be strong everywhere.
San Diego Chargers—Last year, the 
Chargers, always known as a passing team, 
sported the league’s leading rusher, Earnest 
Jackson (1179 yards). But Dan Fouts needs 
injured Kellen Winslow to make this an of­
fense powerful enough to overcome a very 
weak defense. Trumaine Johnson and Tim 
Spencer will help even more, but some­
one has to stop the Seahawks’, Raiders’, 
Chiefs’ and Broncos’ powerful offenses, and 
the Chargers don’t have the personnel. 
Next week: National ConferenceNext week: Tartan soccer, volleyball, field hockey, tennis and more...10 CUT LARGE PIZZA
piZZA —
ST P»jg£i
^ _____681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 1985—The Tartan—Page 17
GRECM AT LSAT-MCAT DAT
Build the confidence that comes from thorough, effective preparation. Your true abilities, even your GPA 
may be meaningless if you are unfamiliar with or “freeze up” during your admission exam. Unfortunately, 
your undergraduate training alone may not be adequate to prepare you. That’s where GAPS comes in. 
Test strategy and content r - -
orientation can make the difference. 
Home study course consists of lecture tapes and written 
materials that cover every topic area you'll be expected to 
know. Practice exams indicate areas of strength and 
those needing additional review. 
Graduate Admissions Preparation 
I Service will give you the knowledge
1 GRAIH AIT and competitive edge you need to
KstmvYtBKp0 succeed on these important exams.
Er.cetr Prepare and you can excel.
? Please send me more information.
Addressplease print
City/Stateno pia boxes please7ij
itour exam dateSdm
Send to: G.A.P.S., 500 Third Ave. W., Box C-19039, Seattle, WA 98109 11 Call toll-free: 1 -800-426-2838
United Way... thanks to you it works for all of us!
Free.
Get our new $49 software module when you buy an HP-41.
It’s a deal that has no equal, for a calculator that has 
no equal.Our new HP-41 Advantage software module packs 
12K of ROM. One and a half times the capacity of any 
other HP-41 module. Large enough to hold the most 
popular engineering, mathematical and financial pro­
grams ever written for the HP-41.You get comprehensive advanced matrix math func­
tions, roots of equations and polynomials, integrations, 
base conversion and logic functions, and time value of 
money functions.Our new module is also sub-programmable. So you 
can quickly access just a portion of a program, or trans­
fer that section to your own program.And it’s even menu-driven. That eliminates overlays 
and reduces the number of prompts.
In short, you get everything it’s going to take to help 
you make the grade in everything from Linear Algebra 
to Physics to Electronics to Statics and Dynamics.
The HP-41 is a deal all its own. Its operating 
system is so advanced, it doesn’t need an “equals” 
key. Little wonder it’s preferred by more engineers 
than any other calculator.This is a limited time offer. Call (800) FOR- 
HPPC. Ask for Dept. 658B. We’ll instantly give 
you the name of a dealer who has no equal.
Do it now. The phone call is free.
But our new module won’t be for long.
HEWLETT
PACKARD
I’m a student who has no equal. Here’s my 
proof-of-purchase to prove it. Please 
send me my free software module.
Name
Address
CityStateZip
Phone Number
HP-41 Serial Number
Mail coupon with proof-of-purchase to: 
Hewlett-Packard Co., c/o Direct Mail 
Projects/M-M, P.O. Box 10598,
Portland, Oregon 97209Offer not redeemable at HP dealer HP-41 must be purchased between 8/15/85 and 11/15/85 Envelopes must be postmarked by 12/31/85 Good only in U S A. Void where prohibited, tsied or restricted by law HP employee purchases not eligible. Allow 6 8 weeks for delivery

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Hotel infringes 
upon student life
Next month, the Board of Trustees will most likely 
approve a plan for developers to build a $35 million 
hotel and conference center on the CMU campus.
President Cyert is attempting to justify this plan 
by saying that most of the conferences held there 
by various corporate groups will be “academically- 
related.” In reality, this hotel plan has very little to 
do with CMU. Oakland needs a hotel, and it’s go­
ing on our parking lot.
Granted, we will not pay for this new hotel. But 
the catch to not paying for something is that you 
don’t generally get to own it or control it.
So we are not buying, then. We are selling. We 
as a community will be selling off, slowly and 
therefore almost painlessly, another piece of what 
comprises our identity as a university.
We need a strengthening of that identity: as a 
university, not as separate schools sharing the same 
plot of grass and cement, each boasting their 
autonomous accomplishments.
We don’t need businessmen using our tennis 
courts. We could use a new athletic facility, but not 
as much as we could use extra space for art students 
to work, a larger library, left-handed desks in Baker 
Hall and a real student union. Besides, student need 
has very little to do with why the athletic facility 
will be built.
We also need parking space, and the removal of 
the largest lot on campus will compound an already 
cantankerous problem. The administration does not 
know where a parking garage can be built, so it is 
almost certain that the parking situation will get 
much worse before it gets better.
Of course, the hotel is supposed to make lots of 
money which will aid improvement of our campus.
However, in order to equip the area around the 
new hotel with suitable facilities, CMU will pay for 
that new athletic center and a parking garage, thus 
actually delaying the more important 
improvements.
We ask why we must pay this kind of price for 
long-term improvement. As cramped as we are for 
parking, study space and campus housing, why are 
we giving up our largest lot so that Oakland 
hospitals can hold conferences? Are we that 
desperate for funds? Last year, while many other in­
stitutions of higher education were trying not to 
close down, CMU actually made over $80,000, as 
it has every year since the early 70’s.
We have to be fair. A hotel will provide us with 
a place to house our families when they visit the 
campus, and perhaps we can get jobs as waiters or 
waitresses. Then there’s the added prestige of hav­
ing corporations from around the country come to 
watch us typing in the UCC. CMU will be further 
glorified without our campus actually improving.
If President Cyert wishes to run for mayor of Pitt­
sburgh, he may very well win. His accurate assess­
ment of this city’s needs in its time of post- 
steelmaking slump have helped Pittsburgh tremen­
dously. But if he wants to be President of this univer­
sity, he should stop carrying all of Pittsburgh’s pro­
blems around on his back.
We as students are not here as part of a marketing 
showcase for various corporations. We are selfish and 
rightly so: next year we will each pay $10,250 in tui­
tion. For the purpose of impressing conference goers, 
we will foot the bill for an athletic facility which 
should be buil^ because the students want it, not 
for the use of hotel patrons.
I. is time for us as students to demand that we 
be treated as more than a part of the operating 
budget. CMU is still our university, not the Poconos.
Letters: Hotel excitement
Editor:
By now, I’m sure everyone has 
heard about the hotel going up in 
what is now Morewood parking 
lot. I don’t care what anyone else 
thinks, I’m excited. Now the 
school can have all sorts of con­
ferences of international scope, 
and attendees won’t feel constrain­
ed to stay away because they won’t 
be staying on campus. Maybe we’ll 
get more international press 
coverage as a result! Dick Cyert 
will get to expand his reputation 
as one of the ten most powerful 
people in Pittsburgh, to maybe 
fame on a national or interna­
tional scope! OH BOY!
Now, I know what you 
naysayers are complaining about. 
Sure, all of the Morewood park­
ing lot will be removed in the 
wake of progress. But heck, 
remember that all the folks park­
ing over by Mellon Institute were 
resigned to their fate of having to 
find somewhere else to park as 
soon as construction begins on the 
new building over there. They 
took it like adults and prepared to 
park elsewhere, probably
Structural
By Michael Hoff
Do you get the impression that 
the number of people who can 
define “art” is dwindling? How 
many people really understand or 
consider the sculptures on campus 
to be artistic? Take 
that metal slab bet­
ween Warner Hall 
and the U.C.C.; it 
looks like something pulled from 
the rubble of war-torn Beirut. 
None of the people I’ve talked to 
anything stimulating about 
it. It’s just there. Is there a hidden 
creative meaning that most peo­
ple can’t find? And, if most peo-
Morewood. Okay, so they have to 
find somewhere farther away to 
park now too, but none of them 
are bellyaching.
There’s plenty of off-street 
parking around campus. All you 
have to do is get here before 8:00 
if you want to be within a half 
mile of campus. And if you prefer 
to arrive later, a nice brisk hike in 
the snow on a cold winter morn­
ing is a great way to get yourself 
pumped up for a new day. In a 
way, it’s really too bad that the 
faculty and administration won’t 
get to work this into their daily 
routine. They, of course, get top 
priority in parking allocation. 
Undergrads get the lowest priori­
ty, so they’ll get frozen out (par­
don the pun) of the allocation 
process almost immediately, apart 
from a token amount maybe. Last 
year, after all, they WERE 
allocated a total of 50 parking 
spaces. But face facts, they don’t 
really matter very much until 
they’ve become useful after 
graduating.
There may very well be a pro­
blem, unfortunately, with an
art should
pie can’t find anything good about 
it, why is it even displayed? 
Where’s the talent in that thing?
Then there’s that scrap in front 
of Wean. That’s nice, it looks like 
a reject from a playground for 
disturbed children. Maybe that’s 
what it’s supposed to look like. If 
so, I’m not impressed. I’ll bet no 
one else is either. Do you honestly 
feel that that thing took any talent 
or creativity to produce?
Then of course, thoughout the 
year we’ll be subjected to tem­
porary displays on campus—like 
the circle of men. What was 
that—a mummified Stonehenge?
ungrateful staff population. An 
awful lot will lose their parking 
privileges. Some of them may con­
sider that this would be an im­
petus to seriously talk union! 
That’s awful.
What do people want? That the 
school should build a minimum 
5-level parking garage on the 
empty land between Morewood 
and Mudge, or on the single level 
parking lot beside Doherty House, 
or in the Bureau of Mines hollow? 
Hey, that costs money. At a school 
that sends a letter from the presi­
dent of the university to parents 
at the end of the year bragging 
about how the school made a 
sizable profit (at a time of sizable 
tuition increases), such projects 
are not entered into without a 
LOT of evaluation and planning.
I hope I’ve managed to inspire 
at least some of the enthusiasm I 
feel for the new project in my 
fellow Camegie-Melloners.
Excitedly yours,
(and parking in Squirrel Hill) 
Bill Swidal 
Applied Math, ’85
be artistic
I’m sure it took a lot of time and 
hard work to produce, but I’m 
also sure that next-to-no one ap­
preciated it. Please spare us from 
any more of these displays. They 
only serve to detract from the 
scenery.
I hope that no more of these 
vague, permanent sculptures are 
erected on campus. And I also 
hope that those eyesores already 
standing are removed and tossed 
into the Mon. Most people don’t 
like them. So let’s get rid of them. 
Michael Hoff is a senior and has 
a double major in Professional 
and Creative Writing.
M.SUSSMA/f

---------------------------------------------------

September 10, 1985—The Tartan—Page 19
Gray thinks she's attending a "male university"
By Karen Gray
To make and inspire the home / To lessen 
suffering and increase happiness / To aid 
mankind in its upward struggles / To enno­
ble and adorn life’s work, however hum­
ble / These are Woman’s high prerogatives 
I recently took the time to 
Mr - read the above inscription, 
i which encircles the top of the
open area at one end of the 
Margaret Morrison building. I guess that it 
is probably not the first thing the Admissions 
Committee shows to female applicants. If I 
am wrong, at least that explains the male- 
female ratio at this school.
Should it be dismissed as a charming rem­
nant of pre-Donner architecture? Of course. 
Only a militant bra-burning overp­
sychoanalyzed feminist type couldn’t laugh 
it off, right? Well, I certainly would laugh 
it off if it weren’t for certain big and small 
facts of life at CMU which make me aware 
that I am attending a male university.
This is different from a man’s university, 
or a place strictly populated by men. A male 
university is a matter of attitude, and a 
woman attending CMU is subjected to a host 
of male attitudes about problem solving and 
the “real world’’ beyond. She learns to ac-
From the Chair.. .
cept the fact that it is still a man’s world-- 
I’m not denying that--instead of trying to 
change it.
Women here have very few female role 
models to emulate. One of the reasons for 
this is that most of the University’s professors 
are men. If the student population is 
disproportionately male, the teaching 
population is even more so. I’m not saying 
that male professors are biased against 
women, but that approach to material is to 
some extent a function of gender. One of my 
roommates expressed the problem perfect­
ly when she said,“It’s just so nice to finally 
have a female professor in my major. Now 
I can see a woman doing something that I’m 
going to be doing!”
In view of the distribution of men and 
women in the different majors, women are 
actually getting less for their tuition dollars 
than are men. More men than women ma­
jor in areas where the administration chooses 
to spend our dollars, such as Applied Math 
and engineering, while students in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts and the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, most of 
them women, pay the same tuition and use 
inferior facilities. On any given day, a 
disproportionate number of men seated on
freshly reupholstered chairs in aircondition- 
ed rooms will use roomy computer accounts 
while women choke on toxic dust in the 
basement of Doherty or attempt to discuss 
Oedipus in overcrowded, stuffy uncarpeted 
rooms in Baker Hall.
Granted, students choose their own ma­
jors, and the gender gap in this area pro­
bably says less about CMU than it says about 
social conditioning. By the same token, 
however, if CMU wishes to attract women, 
more careful attention must be paid to im­
provement throughout the University. Such 
a move would also lend greater weight to the 
claim that CMU is actually a university, and 
not a technical school.
Perhaps women here don’t mind it. We try 
to ignore the fact that there is no women’s 
center, no Women’s Studies in the Universi­
ty curriculum, and that the feminine napkin 
units in Baker and Porter Halls date back 
to the Korean War. If we were mad about 
it, maybe we’d even have a women’s group 
on campus, too.
So what if we did have a women’s group? 
What would we as women discuss? Maybe 
the point of all the silence is that when you 
go to Carnegie-Mellon, there is nothing to 
discuss. You’ve made the professional (i.e.,
male, if I may) choice, so stick with it. That’s 
what you’re paying for, I hope. You want in­
sightful exchange? Go to Bennington, you 
pompous bitch.
I say that if the University is going to try 
to attract more female applicants, the ad­
ministration is going to have to start 
allocating funds toward some serious female 
needs. We are in the midst of a patriarchal 
frame of mind whose death throes have on­
ly begun. In my opinion, death cannot come 
too quickly. Let us as students make the first 
step to gently lift the sheet, cover the 
face. . .and get some decent tampon 
machines in Skibo.
Let us also for a moment think about 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie, an energetic 
individual who simply happened to be bom 
female at the wrong time. As the woman 
who moved the Camegies to America, sup­
ported her family and got Andrew his first 
job, she exercised as much of an influence 
over the industrialization of this country as 
her boundaries as a female would permit. 
Would she be content today to merely ‘aid 
and inspire’? I doubt it. I think she would 
have taken a can of spraypaint to that in­
scription years ago.
Karen Gray is a junior in creative writing.
New committees organized by Student Senate
By Michael Bett
In an effort to better serve the student 
body, Student Senate has reorganized. 
Students and clubs can look forward to a 
better and more effective representation.
The new Senate consists of four new in- 
\ temal committees: Academic 
¡Affairs, Campus Affairs, Fun- 
ding and Recognition, and 
! Public Relations & Human 
Resources.
The Academic Affairs Committee, 
chaired by Cindy Taylor, will tackle any and 
all academic problems that you bring to us.
In the recent past, Academic Affairs has had 
success with getting students a voice in 
tenure, opening new courses, and revising 
the teacher evaluation forms, to list a few 
of its successes in the past six months.
Campus Affairs, chaired by Peter Cohen, 
is a mirror image of Academic Affairs. Cam­
pus Affairs handles all complaints and sug­
gestions that involve one of the auxiliary ser­
vices: housing, dining, parking; or the 
general campus. This is a new committee 
and we can expect it to be as effective as 
Academic Affairs, if not more.
Funding and Recognition, co-chaired by
Tamal Murkerjee and Ginny Ickes, is the 
senate committee for student organizations. 
This committee hears new clubs and decides 
if they should be granted recognition by 
Senate and if they should receive funding 
from Senate. Previously, these tasks were 
done by two separate committees. This 
should allow organizations to pass through 
Senate in half the time it previously took.
Finally, our fourth internal committee is 
Public Relations & Human Resources, 
chaired by Mark Kissner. This committee 
has our most creative people. They will be 
planning campus-wide events that will in­
volve the entire campus community. These 
people will also inform you of important 
events or actions that will affect the campus.
If you have a problem, contact us by com­
ing to a Senate meeting Tuesday at 7:00 pm 
in the Wherrett Room. Students are always 
welcome and are encouraged to participate 
in the meeting. If you are unable to attend, 
you can come to Skibo 59 during the day or 
leave a message at the Information Desk, or 
you can call x2115. We have to hear your 
problem to solve it.
Michael Bett is a senior in Mathematics and 
is Chairman of Student Senate.
Workstation will be like a textbook
By Dr. Richard M. Cyert
I would like to welcome everybody back 
to the campus. We have had a convocation 
for the freshman and have given them a 
special welcome, but I will add another one 
here.
We have another outstanding 
i class of freshmen this year, who,
11 am sure, will add a great deal 
to the quality of campus life. 
Carnegie-Mellon was recently classified in a 
newspaper article as one of a group of ten 
“hot schools.” Presumably, that term means 
schools that a large number of students want 
to attend.
You will notice that there is a lot of 
building going on around the campus. We 
have continued to improve the physical 
facilities for teaching, research, and social 
activities for the students. In the last-named 
category, our major project is the new pub, 
“Scotland Yard,” in Skibo. Scheduled to open 
in October, it will provide a variety of stu­
dent entertainment and will serve food and 
non-alcoholic beverages.
At the same time that we have been im­
proving the physical facilities, we have been 
working on increasing the effectiveness of 
leaching in the classroom. Professor Edwin 
Fenton and his staff in the University 
Teaching Center have already met with the 
new faculty members and with graduate 
students. The teaching manual developed by 
Professor Fenton has proved useful for all 
faculty members and teaching assistants.
The project to develop the new computer 
system is proceeding on schedule. The aim
is to have the campus completely wired for 
the network by November 1, 1986. We are 
currently scheduling the installation of some 
10,000 plugs on the campus. By connecting 
a personal workstation to any one of these 
plugs, you will be a part of the network. We 
are negotiating with the computer manufac­
turers to get a workstation with the desired 
power for $3,000 or less. Several have agreed 
to produce such a workstation, but none is 
yet on the market. We intend to have a 
number of public clusters available on the 
campus but will recommend that students 
buy a workstation. The purchase will be up 
to the individual just as the purchase of a 
textbook is. Work that is assigned to be done 
on the computers, however, will be required, 
and each student will be responsible for the 
work. We believe that, for the beginning of 
the system at least, that this way is the most 
effective to proceed.
In the next few weeks the Software 
Engineering Institute (SEI) building will get 
underway. This building will be constructed 
on the Mellon Institute parking lot, which 
means that parking for awhile will be tight. 
Undoubtedly, students, as well as faculty and 
staff, will be affected by this construction. 
We will do everything possible to add park­
ing spaces at the Bureau of Mines and hope 
that we will be able to get as many new 
spaces as we will be losing through construc­
tion. I trust that you will be understanding 
of the situation and that we can minimize 
the inconvenience for everyone.
We have been spending considerable 
funds to improve the physical appearance of
the university. I am sure that you have notic­
ed the beautiful flowers and the new plan­
tings that have been made. I would like to 
see the university kept beautiful. Litter ob­
viously detracts from a good appearance. I 
hope that you will join me in reducing the 
debris on the campus by using the trash bar­
rels. I ask you to take responsibility for help­
ing to reduce litter and maintaining the at­
tractive campus appearance. I am par­
ticularly unhappy with the cans and cups on 
the campus after a weekend.
I wish you a good academic year. I hope 
that all goes well and that the year will be 
a great learning experience for you.
Dr. Richard M. Cyert is president of 
Carnegie-Melion University.
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar­
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Thelârtan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor.................Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor...........................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor................AI Datri
Sports Editor.............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor.........Olve Peersen
ACME Editor.......................Mohan Embar
Dossier Editor ................Michele Keane
Art Manager....................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager ........................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager-----Kathie Sitter
Interim Features Editor .. Ric Medrow
Asst. Art Manager.............Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neil Greenblum, 
Neal Johnston, Stephen Volan.
Copyright © 1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. 24 hour phone, 
(412) 578-2111. Mailing address: Skibo 103, 
Student Activities, Carnegie Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

ORGANIZATIONAL 
MEETING
For New & Old Members
Tonight at 7:30 PM 
in Skibo 12
Positions open in:
• writing
• reporting
• editing
• business
photography
typesetting
advertising
illustration
darkroom assistants
PIZZA WILL BE SERVED
*
cPace's
"ice creamery
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER 
CALL 
683-3555
INCORPORATIONS 
LANDLORD - TENANT 
CRIMINAL LAW - TRIAL DEFENSE
MURRAY A. FELDER
ATTORNEY AT LAW 
3447 Forbes Ave.
Homemade Ice Cream
PACE'S HAS SANDWICHES, SOUPS,
SALADS 
PACE'S HAS DESSERTS 
PACE'S HAS TOFUTTI
AND
coupon
% off put in 
ice cream with 
candies
expires Sept. 24
420 S. Craig St.
683-2780
11:30 - 11:00 Sun-Th 
11:30 - 12:00 Fri-Sat
A,
I-------------------------1
coupon
14 off any 
sandwich 
expires Sept. 24
lisnpTICT
ENGINEERING DRAFTING
SUPPLIES
355*0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P.M.
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
» ***t

---------------------------------------------------

A picture’s better than a thousand words...
'v*. Vv. i
itilir
¦%£M:
»1:
fin
SSS-'V/S.w.
¦,:x#
?-• ’
SENIORS—SENIORS—SENIORS
Have Your Senior Portraits Taken 
For the 1986 Thistle 
Sign Up Now in Skibo Grey Matter
Supported by your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
BLOOM COUNTY
Provided by the SDC
by Berke Breathed
mep/mram 
MaMa Manle Ml ymdir
IN THE FACE / WtU- SOMEONC
pceAse me Me cit coMlf 
ayl feetm so Tw&mw 
Tuese eatSEI
/
YOU... YOU 6XPLAIN... 
YOU'RE O^/KXJSLY A 
WOMAN... Yes,,, A SMOOTH, CMAMY-SKtNHeP 
WOMAN..
...ft YUMMY..,:SMACK.'i
peucious...} SManD / ?
SCRUMPTIOUS... Z SMACK' f 
WOMAN ...
sme's
teeN rlayudaSSAes mftr?
LOOK/ Y0NP9Rsms we
FAMOUSPHtLANPeRBR'
I
Recomm
FROM HIS WeU. 
PU3LICIZ6P 
pm LAST 
NIGHT/
one MIGHT
W0NP6R JUST ANP JUST 
WHO H6 mS WHAT THEY
nThis weue cane/
ms'mem
SIN ? MORAL 
CORRUPTION r
WASTHeRe
soMeseRioussNueue-BONHieS
60IN6 ON ??
mu/RMO 
MitiDsmtr
/L- *'
1 PONT WONNA HFAR ANY MORE 
ABOUT HOW JAYNe MANSFteiP 
WAS THe SeCONP (/UNMAN 
AT m K6NN6PY ASSASSINATION-
,^V\/ rr MAKESseNse.
1 KNOW fT MAK6S 
SBNSe/ ALL YOUR 
STUFIP CONSPIRACY 
riloymlS MaDl peRFecr 5me?
5ommpoF 
u>m xeercm 
mMXHtemimme/'
’***%* ^ m...%\ i
...IN FACT, 1 PONr THINK m CAN HOWmmMJg®3*k
THIS IS 
TEPTURNeR.
f
0HpeAR.
1’
/
SJ)1
iiV ^ - ..;
7m is eaf RAmeR.
MOST Of YOU 
KNOW THAT CBS IS 
NOW OWNFP BY
TEPTURNeR.
BUT THAT POeSNT M6AN 
I AM/ NOT 7JH5 RePORJBRf 
III B€ NO WHIPPING POST FOR
SoMl CRUPe, souiNTY-eyep cm£ COWBOY...
\H006H/
'CK/WA
/ OUCH//
~ I ^
^C1?WEL MOP,&®l/fL PAN/
soMe oh tok tm BeeN 
aSDmfd wHeneR m New
OWNERSHIP OF CBS WILL
ahhAnr m emeRTAmeNT
PROGRAMMING. YBS-IN 
one INSTANCE •
TkS
ROBIN LEACH'S 
'tMSTfUS OF m RICH 
ANP FAMOUS" WILL BE 
\REPLACEP WITH IBP TURNER'S 
TAKEONEPS OF THe RCH 
afe Loue-Mouma1:..
123(¦iF~¦
i7"18
1?™
¿1J27m36
35
U
TT~
4445
m53I
ACROSS 
1. Epoch 4. Sire9. Tends shot12. Pave13. Odor14. Mock15. Adore 17. Scaa19. Aged20. Cent21. Chore23. Bu24. Moray (pi.)27. Some21. Mister29. Poiated missile30. Verb (form of be)31. Plu (pi.)33. Plaral of I34. Poison36. Eat (p.t.)37. Jdly38. Coat39. Sqaeese40. Twist41. Desk43. Draak44. Taae la (p.t.)40. Aired49. Mistake
50. Scary52. Yale53. Coarse54. Oddity55. Fbheggs
DOWN
1. 7th Letter,
Greek Alphabet2. Frightened (Early Eag.)3. Military Depot4. Poet5. Before6. Depart7. Ash8. Lake9. Attorney10. Ceres mother (Or.)11. Drone16. Type, Sort 18. Banlen20. Indulge21. Cede22. Origin23. Lighter25. Cat back26. Bloat28-------------------Spade29. High card31. Relation between 
tones on scale32. Inhabitant (saf.)35. Certifier37. Ditch39. Seaior40. Trick42. SqaabMe43. Hast44. Moralag Mobtare45. Iretaad Military 
Orgaalzadoa (abbr.)46. By way of47. Rock Groap48. Decrease 51. Concerning
Can You Draw- 
Acro A sotho 
ef AmOak l
(wfcu....mree voy
TtU5 TYP£ or humor )
X ^
This sampling of Bloom County is being brought to you by SDC. Starting next week, Bloom County will be 
a regular feature in The Tartan.
You (ye5, you)
TartnNe By The Tartan
ndocho PaOi
To sM. ,a ffooH/50

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Events
Movies
I Blood Simple, starring Frances 
JL. McDormand, John Getz, Dan 
Hedaya, M. Emmet Walsh. Directed by Joel 
Coen. Takes place in Texas where a husband hires 
a detective to kill his unfaithful wife. Rated R. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7 pm, 9 pm Admission 
$2.95.
The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T, starring Hans Con- 
reid and Tommy Retig. Wonderful fantasy about 
a boy’s nightmare that he is forced to play the 
piano. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
Admission $2.95.
Sports
Soccer away game against Pitt-Johnstown at 
3:30 pm
Pirates against Chicago at 7:35 pm. Call 323-1150 
for ticket information.
Clubs
Faculty Senate Meeting. Agenda includes review 
of plan to make the Computer Science Dept, a 
separate administrative unit. Adamson Wing, 
3:30 pm. Everyone welcome but only senate 
members are eligible to propose motions or to 
vote.
CMU Women’s Track Team meeting. Main 
Gym, 4:30 pm For more information call Coach 
Seidl at x3306.
Tai Chi Chuan: exercise for relaxation and 
weight control. Instructor Bob Lin from China. 
Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3:30 pm. Admission free. 
Everyone welcome.
Fiction & Poetry
CMU Visiting Writers Series: Russel Banks, 
writer of Trailerpark, The Relation of my Im­
prisonment and Continental Drift, will give a 
reading in the Adamson Wing, 9 pm
Tuesday Night Reading Montgomery Cuiver 
reads fiction and Michael O’Connor reads poetry. 
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh’s 
Writing Program. The back room of Hem­
ingway’s Cafe, Forbes Ave., Oakland, 8:30 pm. 
Admission free and open to the public.
Community Events
Ground breaking ceremony for Bellefield 
Towers, an 80,000 sq.-ft. office building 
specifically designed for high tech and medical­
ly related companies. It will be buit on the site 
of the University and City Ministries’ Bellefield 
Towers Church in Pittsburgh’s Oakland District. 
(A unique feature of the project will be the reten­
tion of the bell tower from the original church. 
Presented by National Development Corporation 
(NDC), a Pittsburgh-based developer of office 
and residential projects. Bellefield Towers Site, 
Fifth Avenue and Bellefield Street, Oakland, 
8 am.n
 Movies
Blood Simple, starring Frances 
McDormand, John Getz, Dan 
Hedaya, M. Emmet Walsh. Directed by Joel 
Coen. Takes place in Texas where a husband hires 
a detective to kill his unfaithful wife. Rated R. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse. 7 pm, 9 pm Admission 
$2.95.
Adam’s Rib, starring Katherine Hepburn, 
Spencer Tracy, Judy Holiday. Directed by George 
Cukor. A terrific comedy about a D.A. and a lady 
lawyer. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
Admission $2.95.
Sports
Women’s Field Hockey home game against Lake 
Erie College at 4:30 pm
Pirates against Chicago at 7:35 pm Call 323-1150 
for ticket information.
Announcements Classifieds
Take a faculty member to lunch. The Housing 
Office is continuing the program whereby resi­
dent students may invite any member of the facul­
ty or administration to join them and their friends 
for lunch in any of the University dining halls. 
The goal of this program is to encourage addi­
tional interaction between residents and members 
of the Faculty and to foster a greater sense of com­
munity at CMU. To participate a resident need 
only pick up a ticket at either the Housing Of­
fice or from any Resident Assistant. The ticket 
must be filled out with the date, the resident’s 
name and the Faculty members name, and it has 
as value up to $3.50; it is valid to admit any Facul­
ty member or Administrator to lunch in either 
one of the Skibo dining halls or in the Morewood 
Cafeteria.
SETC Spring Auditions: To qualify, all non­
professional actors (both college students and 
non-students) must attend the West Virginia 
Screening Auditions to participate in the March 
SETC Auditions in Charlotte, NC. The applica­
tion deadline is October 25, 1985. Send applica­
tions to N. Bennett East, Dept, of 
Theatre/Dance, Marshall University, Huntington, 
WV 25701 with a self-addressed stamped 
envelope. SETC forms are available in the Drama 
Office. The fee, paid in the form of a certified 
check or money order only, is $20.00 for West 
Virginia students/residents or $30.00 for 
Ohio/ Pittsburgh residents/students.___________
Oakland One Bedroom Apartment for rent. 
Room for two. $280 mo. heat and water includ­
ed electricity extra. 741-4469 evenings.
Bedroom apartment for rent in Shadyside, ar­
chitecture, free laundry, near Shady and Walnut, 
landscaped yard, $265/mo. including utilities. 
661-6057.
Earn up to $2,000 in your spare dme teaching 
KNITTING! For more information call collect 
617-266-7383.
Relief Resident Advisor: Part-time staff needed 
immediately to work in a supervised 
apartment program with mentally retarded 
adults. All shifts. South Hills area. Hourly rate 
$4.00.
Tutors Needed in computing architecture, linear 
circuit analysis, history, Calc I & II, Physics I & 
II, Probability and Statistics. Contact Sara Gam­
ble immediately at x2150.
PARTIES, PARTIES, PARTIES: We have 
everything for your party at PAPER- 
MART....Over 10,000 square feet of party sup­
plies in our party supermarket. Baum Blvd. at 
Morewood Avenue. 681-8900.
$10—$360 Weekly & Up Mailing Circulars! No 
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, P.O. Box470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Communications or Film Students! Warner 
Brothers movies is looking for a highly motivated 
move rep at CMU. We’re looking for a junior or 
senior with good background in film. You’ll be 
working directly with our Pittsburgh rep. Call 
after 8:00 p.m. to set up an interview. (624-9769)
Faculty family living near campus needs student 
to cook dinner (nothing fancy) 3 nights per week 
and for light housekeeping the other two nights, 
Monday through Friday. Hours and salary 
negotiable. Phone 521-7515 evenings or 234-6002 
days.
Resident Manager: Responsible person to work 
in a supervised apartment program with mentally 
retarded adults. Overnight hours, Sunday— 
Thursday, 9:00 pm —9:00 am; typical sleep 
hours, midnight — 6:00 am. Hourly wage plus a
Tutors Needed for walk-in tutoring service. 7-10 
p.m. in the following areas: Financial Accoun­
ting, Econometrics/Economics, Intro to Com­
puting. $3.50 hr. Call Dr. Hickes x2922 Counsel­
ing Center.
Clubs
AIESEC offers a world of experience, both prac­
tical and cultural in an international, student- 
run business organization. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm 
Everyone welcome.
— MoviesI of Lust in the Dust starring Divine and 
JL Tab Hunter. Directed by Paul Bartel. 
A crazy spoof of Westerns. Rated R. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Blood Simple, starring Frances McDormand, 
John Getz, Dan Hedaya, M. Emmet Walsh. 
Directed by Joel Coen. Takes place in Texas where 
a husband hires a detective to kill his unfaithful 
wife. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse. 7 pm, 9 pm 
Admission $2.95.
King Rat. Doherty Hall 2210. 6 pm, 8:30 pm,
II pm. Admission $1.
Music
Kinvara, a concert of traditional Irish music 
featuring Dolores Keane and John Faulkner. Graf­
fiti, 4615 Baum Blvd., 8 pm. Advance tickets $7 
at Irish Design Center and Graffiti, $9 at the 
door.
Clubs
CMU Explorers Club plans rock climbing, 
kayaking, caving, and hiking trips every weekend. 
Skibo 11, 8 pm. Funded by Activities Fee. Begin­
ners welcome.
B
 Movies
1984, starring Richard Burton, 
Suzanna Hamilton, John Hurt, Cyril 
Cusack. Directed by Michael Radford. A tense 
remake of the 1956 version of George Orwell’s vi­
sion of the future. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse,
7 pm, 9:10 pm, 11:20 pm. Admission $2.95.
Desperately Seeking Susan, starring Madonna, 
Rosanna Arquette. Madonna steals the film in 
this story about a New Jersey housewife and a con 
artist. Rated PG-13. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm, 11:00 pm. Admission $2.95.
Witness Doherty Hall 2210. 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 
12 am. Admission $1.
Clubs
BEAK Society meets in Skibo 13 at 7:04 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
M
 Movies
1984, starring Richard Burton, 
Suzanna Hamilton, Cyril Cusack. 
Directed by Michael Radford. A tense remake of 
the 1956 version of George Orwell’s vision of the 
future. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7 pm, 9:10 
pm, 11:20 pm. Admission $2.95.
Brewster's Millions, starring Richard Pryor, John 
Candy. A comedy about a man who is forced by 
the terms of a will to spend $30 million in 30 days. 
Rated PG-13. Pittsburgh Playhouse. 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Johnny Dangerously. Doherty Hall 2210. 6 pm,
8 pm, 10 pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
Sports
Tartan Football home game against Bucknell 
University at 1:30 pm.
Women’s Cross-Country California Invitational 
at 11 am.
Men’s Cross-Country away meet against Bethany 
College at 11 am.
Women's Volleyball away game against Duquesne 
University, Waynesburg College & PS- 
McKessport. Duquesne, 1 pm.
Soccer Elizabethtown Tournament away games 
against Muhlenberg College, Millersville College
6 Elizabethtown College, 4 pm.
Women's Field Hockey PAC Invitational. 
Bethany College, 10:30 am.
Movies
• ^ 1984 starring Richard Burton, 
JL Suzanna Hamilton, John Hurt, Cyril 
Cusack. Directed by Michael Radford. A tense 
remake of the 1956 version of George Orwells vi­
sion of the future. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse,
7 pm, 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95.
Tootsie Doherty Hall 2210. 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm,
12 am. Admission $1.
_ _ Movies
I 1984, starring Richard Burton,
JL Suzanne Hamilton, John Hurt, Cynl
Cusack. Directed by Michael Radford. A tense 
remake of the 1956 version of George Orwell’s vi­
sion of the future. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7 pm, 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Women’s Tennis home game against St. Francis 
College at 4 pm.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or extent in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Camegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com­
puter mail to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: tide of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi­
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Exjents listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other­
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next week’s issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.
RMKARCN PAPERS
14,278 to choose from—all subjects
Order Catalog Today with V*sa/MC or COD
Wfflb 800-351-0222
CA ROMCU STBEP NDDFITTG 
VLa Lilc oT uu pn wtltOLhc rllClpOAht 
BBETT f-Ocn rst eTuGF:: Hnl kAdtMtl Rr .uuT, 
Rilpn/ LtltOLhc OMln OsOCCOjptxOMM MtstMl
NEW FALL STOCK 
BEST PRICES IN 
TOWN 
Bryn Mawr — Vassar 
Book Store 
4612 Winthrop Street 
(off Craig) 
Tuesday through 
Saturday 
lO A.M. — 4 P.M.
USED BOOKS ONLY
out *7*2921CMU Travel Office
Campi» GonwÉtnct
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

WELCOME STUDENTS
Enroll in America’s largest managementtraining programAIOTOF CAPTAINS OF INDUSTRY STARTED OUT AS SECOND LIEUTENANTS.
How can you get the experience 
you need to succeed in business?
These top executives'started out 
as Army officers. Right out of college, 
they were given the kind of responsi­
bility most people in civilian life work 
years for.
If you begin your future as an 
Army officer, you could further your ca­
reer plans.
How do you become an Army 
officer? A great way to get the training 
you need is in Army ROTC.
ROTC is a college program that
will teach you leadership and manage­
ment skills, and train you to handle real 
challenges.
If you want to prepare for a 
promising future in business, begin 
your future as an Army officer, with 
Army ROTC. You too might wind up a 
captain of industry!
For more information, contact 
the Professor of Military Science on your 
campus.ARMY ROTC. BEALLYOUCANBE.
Rawleigh Warner, Jr., Chairman, Mobil Corp.Walter F. Williams, President & Chief 
Operating Officer Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Earl G. Graves, Editor & Publisher 
Black Enterprise MagazineJohn G. Breen, Chairman, President & CEO 
Sherwin-Williams Company
Pick up an Add/Drop Slip from your advisor, or 
Captain Perry Colvin in B7 of Margaret Morrison Hall
