CARNEGIE UNION
Freshmen - Carnegie 
- DANCE 
9:00 FRIDAY
LITTLE THEATER \ 
DR. VAN ETTEN 
CHAPEL 
11:30 TODAY
VOL. XXIII, No. 8, FART I.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 13, 1928.
And the Scotchmen Gave—Nothing!!
Tartans Score Decisive Win Over 
Georgetown University at Albany 
New York, Saturday, in 13-0 Battle
Karcis Plunges Ball Over 
For First Touchdown. 
Eyth Also Stars
TARTANS COMPLETELYOUTPLAY HILLTOPPERS
Harpster Shows Great Generalship;Rosenzweig Also Produces Brilliant Display
Outplaying the Georgetown eleven in every department of the game, the Big Red team from Carnegie Institute:' of Technology handed Coach Lou Little's outfit their first 
defeat of the season last Saturday at Chadwick Park Stadium, Albany, 
New York. The Tartans certainly proved to the , few remaining skeptics that they were a real foot­ball machine, and that the small­est thing in their repertoire was their reputation. Carnegie-knocked the Blue and Gray from the 'top rung of the grid ladder to the tunc of a 13-0 scorc, the touch­downs, one made by Karcis f and the other by Ted Rosenzweig, com­ing in the first and third quar­ters. The game was played on a muddy, snow-covered field and be­fore a very small crowd of spec­tators, considering the fact the game was played between two j teams neither of which had tasted 
; defeat heretofore.
Capt. Harpster led his men in his usual calculating manner, in addition to outpunting Mooney so badly that it was really pitiful. Eyth and Karcis fairly tore the Blue and Gray forward wall to : jlieces by alternating at center plunges and olf-tackle bucks. Rosenzweig* certainly displayed an over amount of ability in repeated­ly making substantial gains on end around plays and in snaring 
passes from Ilarpster.
HaVpstci* won the toss and dc- i cidcd to defend the north goal. Mooney kicked off to Moorehead, who ran the ball back to the Car­negie 24-yard line. Moorehead again carried the ball and ran 20 yards around right end before be­ing downed. Carnegie failed to make it first down and Harpster punted to Iiannigan, who was 
downed on his own 21-yard line. Georgetown failed to gain and Mooney attempted a punt, but it was partially blocked by Schmidt, the ball rolling to the Carnegie 45-yard line. Carnegie fumbled and the ball was recovered by Georgetown. Two plays later Flanagan intercepted Iludak’s pass, this giving rise to the inarch that resulted in the first touchdown. Karcis gained two yards on a pass. Moorehead was forced out of 
bounds on a no-gain play. Flana­gan gained four yards around left :nd on a reverse play. Moorc- lcad gained nine yards on an end •un. Rosenzweig gained six yards .on two end around plays, the ball ’coming to rest on the two-yard line. Harpster ran into a pileup, but Karcis tore through offguard for the first touchdown. Harpster place-kicked for the extra point.In the sccond quarter George­town made their greatest threat, bringing the ball to the Skibft’s two-yard line on a series of passes and bucks, plus numerous Car­negie penalties. The Tartan line 
held, however, and it was Car­negie’s ball when the half ended.In the third quarter Eyth ran wild, scarcely failing to gain when­ever lie carried the ball. On an exchange of punts Carnegie started a relentless drive from her 43-j'ard line.,. The Karcis-Eyth combination was largely responsible for carry­ing the ball to the 26-yard line, •a: which point Ted Rosenzweig took the ball on an end around play for the second touchdown. This brilliant run was a featurei
ni the gamfe, as he shook off two icondary defense men and finally (Continued on Page 3)
Interfratemity Council 
Discusses Rushing Season
The last meeting of Interfra- 
ternty Council held Saturday morn­
ing, November 10, developed muck 
argument in regards to changing 
the opening of rushing season from 
8:30 a. m. to 10:30 a. m. the morn­
ing of November 24. After much 
discussion it was decided to main­
tain the present time—8:30 a. m. Saturday, November 24.A letter from Dean Tarbell, on behalf of the dormitory men, re­questing that the practice of visit­ing plebes in their rooms, after 9 p. m. during rushing season, be 
(Continued on Page 3)
Mr. Lennox Robinson 
Dublin to Direct Play 
of Drama Department
‘The Pleasure Garden” by B. Mayor Will Be Produced for First Time in United States
In January the Department of 
Drama will produce a play under 
the direction of Lennox Robin­
son, Director of the Abbey Theater 
in Dublin. Mr. Robinson, who is 
now in this country on a lecture 
tour, has been engaged for the 
entire month of January as visiting 
director of the drama department, and on this visit Mr. Lepnox of the Abbey Theater in Dublin will direct production of a play.The next play to be produced in the Little .Theater is a .four-act comedy, “The Pleasure Garddn," by Beatrice Mayor. The play, under the direction of. Professor Vicli- mann, will be given the week before Thanksgiving vacation and will run for the usual eight per­formances.'“The Pleasure Garden” has never been produced in the United States though it "was performed at the Regent Theater in London in 1924. It is. the work of an English woman, whose only other literary creation is a one-act play which, like “The Pleasure GArdcn,” has been produced in England.The plan, the scene of which is in a public garden in England, has rather a sketchy plot, dealing with a student’s observation of human life. Its chief interest lies in charac­ter delineation.A large cast is called for by the play; it will include about a half of the upper class members of the Drama Department The roles have not yet been assigned, but after the readings, which are being held this week, the cast will be an­
nounced.
Work Nearly Completed
On Student Directory
The student directory, which was to have made its appearance’ today, has been delayed for a few days. Due to extensive proofreading ne­cessary to eliminate mistakes, the booklet will not be ready till Thursday or at the very latest, Tuesday, the twentieth. Notices will be posted on the bulletin boards announcing the correct dates of the sale. There 'are only 750 copies to be printed so that any­one wishing to reserve ar copy of the directory can do so by placing his order and the price, 50 cents, with Bill McNeill,. Bob Wood or Helen Booth.All 'students who desire to sell student directories should see Bob4 Wood, the business manager, at once at the Tri-Publications office or at the Sigma Phi Esilon Fra­ternity on Forbes street.
Plebe Ratings Show Up Well 
0ver220QualityPointsMade 
By Twenty-nine Girls-Boys
The freshman ratings for the first six weeks of the first semester have shown up fairly well for a group just acclimatized to college atmosphere. This year there are 29 boys and 19 girls who’have 220 or more quality points. The high­est number of quality points regis­tered are those of Miss Edith Turner of M. M. C. C. The high­est number of points in the bo3rs’ group were made by Robert W. Ivamerer. Though there are less girls than boys above the 200 mark there must be taken into account the fact that the total number of units carried by the girls are 50, while the boys carry from 55 to 
,61. In the opinions of the col­lege directors those rating com­pare favorably with last year’s. They also expect ’to have many more names on • this list by the end of the'semester.The following is a list of the (Continued on Page 4)
Student Council Report 
Shows Financial Deficit
Dr. Van Etten Will Speak 
At Chapel Services Today
Dr. Van Etten of the Calvary Episcopal Church is the speaker at the Thanksgiving Chapel today at 11:30 in the Little Theatre, for which Irene Tedrow, a senior in the Drama. Department will read the Scriptures. The _ music is to be furnished by a string quartette. Thanksgiving hymns will be sungDr. Van Etten, one of the most prominent ministers of Pittsburgh and well-known to Carnegie stu­dents, has visited the chapel ex­ercises of previous years. The Y. W. and Y. M. C. A. arrange for Chapel programs every two weeks. Irene La Londe, a senior in the Secretarial Department, has charge of the current chapel program. The attendance so far has been very unsatisfactory. Students in tlieY. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. again urge every one to attend these services.
Institute Exhibit Mecca For Art Critics
And Lovers of Cultural Pittsburgh
Pittsburghers starving for culture 
are wending their way towards the 
Carnegie Institute art exhibit, where, 
with wide-open eyes they drink in 
the beauties of Nature as portrayed I by the exponents of art.With catalogues in hand, school­children,,. club women, college stu­dents, and afternoon dates promen­ade through the galleries and survey the works of the world’s greatest artists. They, after a glance, cither voice their approval, or, with wcll- selcctcd witticisms, label the paintings /"fit for the woodshed.”Tcachcrs who desire to instill the love of culture in the hearts of their pupils send them to the exhibit to write on “The Six Best Paintings 'in the Art Exhibit”, in a composition of two hundred words. These chil­dren solemnly pace the galleries dis-' carding tbe prue winners as impos­sible, and pick out for the best paint­ings pictures of mother and babe,
flowers, or sea-scenes. Then they ask the lady-in-charge and the guards to help them compose some­thing that will show that their car­fare money wasn’t wasted. With an air of affluence they ask the price of pictures and are cither crestfallen or retire to consider possible pur­chase.The first prize winner receives practically no favorable comment and is referred to as “bunch of dead ducks” by both young and old folks. The only small child who admired the prize winner, said that the paint­ing was a difficult task, because, since the ducks lay on the table up­side down, the artist had to paint cacn feather standing on his head.The paintings of the moderns, in­discriminately referred to as being futuristic, cubistic, or impressionistic, are blessed with some adjectives de­noting one of the stages of abnor­mal behavior.
(Continued on Page 3)
The Senior Boat Ride, Men’s Senior Ball, and Women’s Senior Ball arc conspicuous among the deficit functions^ of last year. - The 1928 Thistle turned in a statement qf deficit amounting to $573.54. The Sophomore Hop emerged with a profit of $181.88, Men’s Junior Prom boasts a surplus of $4.14, Women’s Junior Prom a surplus of $211.82, and Women’s Scholar­ship Organization a surplus of $589.07.A statement issued by the Stu­dent Council gives the financial re­ports of student organizations and activities for last year. The Senior Boat Ride, the Men’s Senior Ball and the Women’s Senior Ball are conspicuous 'because of their size­able deficits, amounting to $573.54. These deficits, however, were less than the profits made by other activities. The Sophomore Hop boasts a surplus of $181.88. The Men’s Junior Prom came over the top_ with $4.14. The Women’s Junior Prom and the Women’s Scholarship Organization were high ly successful, making profits of $211.82 and $589.07 respectively. As a whole the financial results of last year were favorable.
Carnegie Men Fly To 
Albany To View Game
Seven students and ,a professor, 
members of the Aviation Club, went 
to the Georgctown-Carnegie game 
in Albany last Saturday in two 
Ryan monoplanes belonging to the 
Aircraft and Airways Company of 
America. The entire trip from 
Pittsburgh, via Buffalo and into 
Albanjr, was made bjr air. They 
were: Professor Klamon of the
Economics Department, with R. M. 
Weiglt, D. M. Mel lor, E. J. Dolan, 
W. C. Vickery, E. P. Knudsen, 
Gerard Flynn and W. T. Hull.
The eight passengers were picked 
up at school Friday morning by 
automobiles from the Studebaker 
Corporation in Pittsburgh and 
taken to Rogers Field, where they 
“took off” in the planes at 3 
o’clock.
The ships followed a route by 
way of Buffalo, on account of the 
unfavorable weather along the 
Allegheny Mountains, which was 
avoided by going _ directly north and then cast. Arriving at Buffalo about 5 o’clock the party stayed over night. They left Buffalo at 8 o’clock Saturday morning, reach­ing Albany at 10:30. In Albany the group was met again by Studc- baker automobiles and taken to a hotel.
The monoplanes used in the trip were Ryan-Mahoney Aircraft Corporation planes, manufactured at San Diego by the makers of Lindbergh’s “Spirit of §t. Louis.”
P.esiden ial Ebction h Over So “Oil Well” 
For N_x. Fcur Yca:s And Ba Piospsrous
Apparently Republican prosperity" is 
here for at least four more years. 
Twenty-two million so decreed last- Tuesday, and, despite the protests of seventeen million others, prosperity won out. The “hitch” lies in the fact that the presidential candidate is chosen by a majority vote, and since twenty-two million is five mil­lion more than seventeen million— Gcckclcrian hypothesis—Hoover was elected.
Now that the fate of the''nation has been settle^ for the next- four years, the American people can turn ’on their radios in peace. Since last June the air has been filled with meahingless promises which will promptly be forgotten now that the election is over. Everyone is glad that the Clicquot Club Eskimos anu the Philco Hour will be back broad­casting in place of the Hoover “Rash Promises Club” and the Smithsonian 'Anvil Chorus.” Perhaps we may even be able to listen to a speech given in the best of‘English for a change.
Perhaps our newspapers will soon etunr to normalcy. -Of course we’ll have to put up with “From Engineer to President in Twenty Years” or some such biography of the presi­dent-elect. But after tlie initial in­stallment, the story will be put back beside the Frank & Seder ‘advertise­ment and we won’t notice it. Sports events will again bccomc the main issue and interesting murders will
probably take the place of religious 
toleration. To us, the doings of 
Howard Harpster, “Red” Cagle, and the. other all-Americans are far more interesting than why the man who has fed Tammany Hall for the last eight years is better than the man who fed the starving Belgians ten years ago.Business conditions will prgbably be bettered. The average husband has been coming home to a vacant dinner table ever since the Demo­crats left Houston. His wife has been all excited over a political parade or hadn’t cjnvinced the cor­ner grocer that the man who wants no votes on religious grounds is bet­ter than the man who wanted no votes on acc'ount of religion. (Both of them woulcl have grabbed the Mo­hammedan vote if they could have). Every man approached in business wanted to-wait until after the elec­tion before buying or selling the family tooth brush. If the Repub­licans were elected, the business man claimed everything would be “oil right,” if the Democrats won out, everything (would be “all wet.” To­day, oil men are happy.And so the people have made a choice on their own volition, per­suaded no doubt by six-shooters in Chicago, and the Strip gang in Pitts­burgh, but they’ve made a choice. But, no matter who is President, we’ll wager that you and I are go­ing to get the same substantial F in math, just the same.
Fourth of Series of Talks 
On the Art Exhibit Tonight
Dr. Frederick M. Clapp of FineArts Department, University of Pittsburgh, to be the Speaker
Dr. Frederick M. Clapp, Head of the Department -of Fine Arts, University of Pittsburgh, will speak in the Lecture Hall of the Car­negie Institute tonight on the Inter­national Exhibition on the subject, “What Can We Know About It?” This will be the fourth of the series of Tuesday evening talks on the Exhibition.
Dr. Clapp came to the Univer­sity of Pittsburgh in 1927 to estab­lish a department in tlie apprecia­tion of the Fine Arts. This de­partment .already ranks with the best in in the United States. Their library is rapidly becoming com­plete and authoritative. .It is de­voted to art criticism and infor­mation.Dr. Clapp is recognized as one of the great scholars and writers on the history and meaning of art. He is a graduate of Yale Univer­sity and lias a degree of Doctor of Letters from the University of Paris. Afttr being graduated from Yale he went to Europe for fur­ther studyi He became interested in Italian art, and then in the his- (Continued on Page 3)
Last Thistle Pictures 
Will Be Taken Thursday
Thursday will be the last day for taking pictures for the 1929 Thistle. Those who have not made arrangements to be photographed must communicate with Edwin Del Villar, the photographer, in order that all work may be done before lie leaves Thursday night. He may be reached either by a per­sonal visit to Room 2, Industries Building or by calling Carnegie Tech and asking for Mn Del Vil­lar. His office hours 'are from 9 to 11:40 and 1:30 to 4:45. If 'necessary he is willing to. be at his office in the evening alter 7:30 
in order that there will be no disappointed Seniors.
Settings for groups not yet photographed can be arranged for by the officers of the organization for whatever time is convenient. It- is important that appointments be made at once so that photo­graphs may be made before the inevitable last minutes’ rush which results in a decrease of quality.A dollar deposit is required for each sitting for a picture for the Senior section, and Seniors are asked not to forget it.
COMMITTEE CHOSEN
FOR WOMEN’S PROM
Margaret Keenoy has been 
chosen 'chairman of the Women’s 
Junior Prom to be held on March 22. Assisting her are: OliveRitchey; vice chairman; Virginia Morgan, secretary and patronesses; Cora Lee Henk, treasurer; Dorothy Bowser and Grace Jarrett, favors; Blanche Bray, publicity; Dorothy Hopkins, programs; Betty Rankin, orchestra; Katherine McMillan, food and decorations.Favors have been selected but their nature is secret. The orchestra has not been chosen. Location will probably be at the' William Penn Annex, which will be completed March 1. The first sale of tick­ets will take placc early in De­cember.
Appointments Announced 
By Military Department
Cadet Captains, and Lieutenant Picked For Six Companies For 1928-29
To supplement the announce- r.ici.'. of R. R. Lockwood as Major oi the Carnegie ROTC Battalion the Military. Department has an­nounced - the following appoint­ments: Battalion Adjutant, R. D.Rhoades; Company A, Captain, A. W. Miller; First Lieutenants, Con- well, Diltz; Sccond Lieutenants, Hull, McLean, Mcsta, Zemberry; Company B, Captain, Gordon Durr; 
First Lieutenants, Kumpf, James; Second Lieutenants, Brocious, Daugherty, Noble, Watters, Stan- kiewiecz; Company C, Caiptain, W. i. Smith; F'irst Lieutenants, Fer- rick, Chamberlain; Second Lieu­tenants, Cooper, Rutsis, Ruano; Company D, Captain, A. M. Fisher; First Lieutenant, Bronson; Second Lieutenants, Boyd, Cox, Blass, Shaw, Stine, Weathcrell; Company F, Captain, W. M. McNeill; First Lieutenant, Ralston, Second Lieu­tenants, Cotton, Neely, Klempay, McCulloch, McGowan, Shirley, Young; Company F, Captain, Lane Johnson ; First Lieutenants, M. H. Smith, Jones; Second Lieutenants, 
(Continued on Page 4)
Tau Beta Pi to Make Call 
At the Science Assembly
Campus activities of Tau Beta Pi, national engineering honorary fraternity, will be opened on Tues­day, November 20, at 11:30, reg­ular assembly period. The meet­ing will be held • as a Science Assembly in Room 218, Engineer­ing Hall.
The program for the opening meeting will be featured by an address by L. E. Young, president of the Pittsburgh Coal Company. Mr. Young will speak upon *the subject, “Aims and Ideals of Tau Beta Pi.” He is vitally interested in the development of this organ­ization and is a speaker of con­siderable note in the engineering world.
Irl addition-to tfye talk, recogni­tion will be made of the highest 'scholastic rating of last year’s Plebe class in engineering. Pro­fessor Trinks will present a slide rule to the student thus honored.Following this, the calls to Tau Beta Pi and Theta Tau will be made by the presidents of the or­ganizations. Those _ eligible for calls to these honoraries must stand (Continued on Page 4)
WOMEN’S GLEE CLUB 
PETITION IS GRANTED
The Student Council has appro­
priated an increase in funds for 
the use of the Women’s Glee Club. 
This club, finding last year’s ap­
propriations insufficient for its 
uses, petitioned the Student Coun­
cil for a raise in the budget. The petition was granted.The Women’s Glee Club plans an extensive program for the com­ing season. Latest announcements show that eleven public appear­ances have been planned. This number is greater than usual, when the number of appearances ranged from three to five, not counting the Home Concert.Today, the Women's Glee Club 'makes its first appcarance at chapcl.
Students to Send Off
Tea^i With Pep Rally
A pep rally will be held to­
morrow afternoon at 4:30 in the 
Carnegie Bowl. The Kiltie Band 
will assemble in the Union and 
will then march down to the Bowl. 
As the rally will last only about 
one-half hour, all students are
urged to come out for a few min­
utes to show that they are back 
of the team.
Bob Waddell, or one of the 
other coaches, will probably make 
a short speech. The cheer leaders 
will be there to give the team a 
send-off. They feel that the stu­
dents have not been supporting 
them properly, and they want acomplete turnout to give the. teama hearty farewell.
Dismissed Classes to Parade 
At Carnegie Day Exercises 
On Tuesday, November 27
At the Carnegie Day Exercises, Tuesday, November 27, the Hain- merschlag Memorial Tablet will be unveiled. This, tablet, in com­memoration of the death of Car­negie’s first presidentj will be lo­cated on the north 'wall of the Administration Building.
Classes in all four colleges will be dismissed from 10:30 to 1:30 to allow the students to attend the exercises. A parade will form on the campus and headed by the Kiltie Band, will march to the Music Hall.
Scholarship’cups will be awarded to the fraternity, sorority, and dormitory which ranked highest scholastically last year.All scholarship holders will march in a group and will occupy a re­served section at the assembly. As an added honor, their names will be included in the program together with the donors of the respective scholarships.
Kilties Will Accompany 
The Team to South Bend
Sixty members of the Kiltie Band 
are looking forward to the big trip 
of the year this Friday to South 
Bend, Ind., where they will see the 
Notre Dame and Carnegie Tech 
game. Many seniors remember the 
royal time had on the trip to 
Notre Dame three years ago. There 
is much to' remember from that 
trip for the band was treated the 
best it has ever been treated. The 
Notre Dame students and people 
of South Bend regarded Carnegie Tech as their guest, and felt that it was their duty to see that Car­negie had a good time; this ac­counted for the splendid spirit dis­played in South Bend.The Studebaker Motor Company put a fleet of cars at the disposal of the band for them to see the town. Besides this', they took the band through their factory • and gave them anything they wanted in the cafeteriar-That evening after the football game the Notre Dame Band gave a large banquet in honor of the Kiltie Band. All -of these events went together to make it one of the trips to long be re-- membcred.
Arts Ball Committee Is 
Announced By Jack Barr
The complete committee for the 
Arts Ball has been announced by 
Jack Barr, General Chairman. The 
officers and departmental chairmen 
are: Jack Barr, general chairman;
Abe Heff and Ken Heidrich, as­
sistant "chairmen; Dick Deverell, 
treasurer; Henry Butz, assistant 
treasurer; Sid Warner, construc­
tion; Don Schaefer, decorations; 
Durbin Horner, Xrts Ball Show; 
Paul Brumfield.* banquet; Art Sid- 
elles, Plebe work; Sally Franklin, 
costume; George Kimberly, light­
ning; Ken Owens, music; *irene 
Tedrow, chairman of Social Com­
mittee; Jeter Eason, publicity; Des­
imone, Night School Representa­
tive; W. G. Jones, past Arts Ball.
The motif for the ball will be 
Egyptian. Decorations and cos­
tumes will be based on this de­
cision which was -chosen because 
of its special adaptability to an 
Arts Ball. With this matter de­cided the committee will be able to proceed with its plans.
The date for the Ball, as an­nounced last week, is Friday, Feb­ruary 15. The Ball will be held in the Foyer of the College of Fine A.rts, which will be elaborately 
decorated. The committee is los­ing no time in bringing all the details to a definite decision.The Arts Ball was hot held last year, mainly due to the lack of financial support. Students did not (Continued on Page 3)
Coal Conference, Overshadowing 
Current Events In City This Week, 
Opens On Monday At Camsgie Tech
Students Leave For
South Bend Friday
Friday night, a special train of 
Carnegie students will leave for 
South Bend, Indiana, where Car­
negie meets Notre Dame in their 
annual football encounter.
-The special leaves at 11 p. m. 
Friday, from the Pittsburgh and 
Lake Erie Railroad Station, at 
Smithfield and Carson streets, and 
arrives in South Bend at 7 a. m., thus leaving plenty of time for the Carnegie followers to see the town, before the game starts. Leaving South Bend on the return trip at 11 p. m. Saturday, the train is due (Continued on Page 3)
Freshman-All-Carnegie 
Dance To Be Held 
Friday, November 16
Blue Moon Screnaders’ Orchestra Has Been Obtained. Admis­sion $1.50 Per Couple
Official approval of the Fresh­man-All Carnegie Dance- committee and budget completes the ,plan of this committee for' the annual frolic which comes this Friday, Novem­ber 16, from 9 to 1, at Webster Hall.
The Blue Moon Serenadcrs are scheduled to play. Other enter­tainment' includes professional danc­ing and stunts. Peg Accipiter, gen­eral 'chairman of the Dance, with her school representative as Relton, Woodruff and Campbell of Arts School;Beck, Horton and Dudgeon of Engineering and Industries, and the Misses McClosky and Croyle of Margaret Morrison, has taken charge of the affair, for which refresh­ments will' be served between dances.Freshman-All Carnegie events usually take place in the Union and serve as a means of formal reciprocation by Freshmen for upperclass events held in their honor. 
Webster ^Iall is a new place of entertainment for the upperclass­men, who arc expected in larger numbers this year than last.The date of this affair has been changed with that of the Soph Hop, which was originally scheduled for the night of November 16. This latter affair has been postponed until November 23, a week later, and Frcslunan-All Carnegie sched­uled in its place.Traditional rivalry between Fresh­man and Sophomore in drawing crowds to their social affairs of impute, the Freshman-All Carnegie Dancc and the Soph Hop, which come closely together, is among other incentivesyfor the anticipation of the Freshmen of a large crowd.
Speakers Represent Twelve 
Nations; Other Countries 
Have Delegates
DR. BAKER WILL GIVEWELCOMING ADDRESS
Conference Culminates Year’s Work 
of Dr. Baker, Including Trip Abroad
Women’s .Scholarship Fund
Committees Are Named
The Woman’s Scholarship Or­ganization met Friday, November 2, to complete appointments to committees for the annual scholar­ship drive. Dorothy Roy _ and Florence Bright were _ appointed chairmen of the Advertising Com­mittee; Evelyn Goldenson, chair­man of the Candy Sales Commit­tee, and Harriet Hanna, chairman of Ticket Sales Committee. 0
This association is composed of the heads of women’s organiza­tions on the, campus. It has sub­stituted for the various clubs and organizations which formerly had 
charge of awarding scholarships.
A theater benefit is given every year at a downtown theater. Pro­ceeds go to the scholarship fund. Ten scholarships are to be awarded this semester and the committee hopes to give the same number next semester.
On next Monday morning Dr. Baker will deliver the welcoming address which will open the Sec­ond International Conference on Bituminous Coal. Beginning Mon­day and continuing until Novem­ber 24, the sessions of the confer1* ence will be held daily. Hundreds of delegates from all parts of the world have already gathered here, while the hundred men scheduled to address the conference are also gathering here. Twelve nations are represented by the speakers; in addition, several other countries will be represented by either dele­gates or visitors.
The conference is being held un­der the auspices of Carnegie Tech. Dr. Baker, who for nearly a year has been working on the plans for the conference, will serve as chair­man.
Sessions of the conference will be held in Carnegie Music Hall and in various halls of the Car­negie Institute of Technology. Afternoons will be devoted chiefly to sectional meetings of which there will be as many as five go­ing on simultaneously. Evening features during the week will in­
clude a dinner given in honor of the speakers by President Baker Monday night; a public meeting to hear addresses by Dr. E. E. Slos- son, Director of Science Service, and Dr. E. -W. Smith, of England, on Tuesday night; a smoker’ on Wednesday night; a banquet for the public on Thursday night; and a public meeting on Friday night to hear an address by Georges Claude, the eminent French scien­tist and inventor.
Trips to Pittsburgh district in­dustrial plants' and the Carnegie- New York University football game Saturday afternoon, Novem­ber 24, are also listed as enter­tainment features.A brief summary of the program which will fill the six. days of the conference follows:Monday morning will be occu­pied with registration, addresses of welcome, and two speeches on scientific research, one of coal problems in perspective and the other on the hydrogenation of coal. In the afternoon scientists will discuss the economics of low temperature coal treatment, low temperature carbonization, and low temperature carbonization of coal by the Hayes Process. Two sec­tions of the conference will also meet on Monday: The origin, com­position and classification section, and the pulverized fuel section.On Tuesday, the general session , in the morning will deal with re­cent scientific developments in coal research, and with “Coal, Hydro­gen and Capital.” In the after­noon sessions on low temperature distillation, pulverized fuel, on fer­tilizer, and on the origin, compo­sition and classification of coal will be held. T uesday evening, ad­dresses entitled “The Fourth King­dom”. and “The Technical Lessons of the World Power Conference, 1928” will be delivered.Wedhesday morning at the gen­eral session three speeches will be delivered, while sessions to con­sider purification and cleaning, and fertilizers are also scheduled. In the afternoon the low temperature distillation section and the pulver­ized section will again meet, while a liquefaction section will assem­ble for the first time. In the eve­ning a smoker will be held.After the general session on Thursday morning, sessions deal- (Continued on Page 2)
Aeronautical Engineering Department
Receives a Gift of a Giant Aeroplane
The thrill of a new experience is always intensified when one knows that very few others are having that same experience. Years ago, one’s first ride in an automobile was some­thing looked forward to with a rest­less eagerness, and ooked back upon for few were fortunate enough to experience the sensation,- with pride. Today it.is the aeroplane that causes the anticipation and subsequent feel­ing accomplishment. Is the rare and much coveted ride that is obtained.Usually, however, one feels priv­ileged if he can merely get a elose view of a plane. At present a ride in the air is a little above the reach of the average person.No doubt, students who arc busy with coming midsemesters do not know that you have only to express the wish for being within a stone’s throw’ of an aeroplane and your wish will be granted. For there is an teroplane on the Carnegie Tech Campus 1 If you should happen to
be secretcly ashamed of never hav­ing closely viewed a modern flying machine, perhaps you can cleverly plan to pay your visit at a time when there is least likely to be any one else there. You can go to see our aeroplane, and; yes, actually touch the machine, thus treating yourselves to the sort of thrill that you have not experienced since child­hood.
But to come to details concerning our possession. Colonel Harry C. Fry, Jr., president of Loguc Broth­
ers, Inc., has given the plane to the school to be used for the purpose of study by students taking the aero­nautics branch of the mechanical en­gineering coursc. It is approximately nine years old, havipr been built for use during the wur. Unfortunately, the war ended too soon, and the machine was never destined to spread its wings. Now It is considered too unwieldly to be taken up.
(Continued on Page 3)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANILLS DAY. NOVEMBER 13, l‘A'S.
ALUMNI NEWS
CA incomplete, and in #omo cna*n, possibly 
incorrect. It hno been compiled, however, 
from th« latent available data. Any cor­
rections or addition» should be Bent in im­
mediately to the Alumni Officc.
BALTIMORE 
President, G. S. Diehl, Bellona Avenue. 
Secretary • and Treasurer, P. H. Dickey, 
1318 Continental Uuildintf.
BOSTON
Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 76 West Street, 
Braintree, Moss.
BUFFALO
President, Robert Porter, 130 Hoyt Street. 
Secretary and Treasurer, Herbert L. 
Moerahfeldcr, 34 Ketchum Place.
CANTON
President, Frnnk J. Taylor, 618 Alta 
Place. N. W., Canton Ohio.Vice President, Henry L. Berger, 916 
Green Street, Massillon, Ohio.
Secretary, Wilmor H. Tucker, 1230^ Cleve­
land Avenue, N. W.
Treasurer, Georgo A. Martin, 315 Ninth 
Street, N. E.
CHICAGO
Chairman, C. J. Copley, COG Wriglojr 
Building.
Flnanco Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chair­
man ; Vic Stromulst, John Harknoso. 
Program Committee, John Nation, Chair­
man ; Harvey Hiller, Mrs. H. W. Davis. 
Membership Committee, C. B. Schmidt, 
Chairman; Mrs, John Hnrkness, Thad 
Wheeler.
Publicity, F. W. Cook.
All communications should be addreased to 
G. J. Copley.CINCINNATI 
President, G. C. Smith, Chemical Depart­
ment, University ot Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND 
President, A. C. May, Peerless Automatic 
Machine Company.
Vice President, O. K, Fulmer, 1849 East 
101st Street.
Secretary, E. P. Batcham, 1080 Union 
Trust Building.
Treasurer, L. (J. Lustonbcrgor, 1849 East 
101st Streak
CLEVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN 
President, Virginia Pope, 1910 E. 93rd 
Street
Vico President, Sarah Henderson. 
Secrctary-TrcaBurer, Catherlno Allan, 622 
E. 124th Street.
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
President, N. J. Engle, 2C6 South High 
Street.
Vicu President, Florence H. Lutz, 91 
South Market Street, Logan, Ohio. 
Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Palomn. 
Department of Romuncc Languages, Ohio 
State University.
CONNECTICUT 
Proiidcnt, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Sterling 
Streot, Hartford.
Vice President, William Gooby, 10 Madison 
Street, New Britain.
Srcrctary and Treasurer, Samuel Flnxman, 
92 Vice Street, Hartford.
DAYTON, OHIO 
President, F. W. Heckcrt, 341 Kenilworth 
Avenue.DETROIT
President. W. Ray WilliamH, carc WoBt- 
inghouse Electric & Manufacturing Com­
pany, 1635 Sixth Street.
Secretary and Treasurer, C. L. Eoylc, 3209 
Balfour Road.
ERIE
President:, Ray Keller, cjiro Hammermlll 
X’aper Company.
Bccretary and Treasurer, R. C. Warren, 
carc The Wnrron Company.
GOLDEN GATE 
President, G. M. Whlslor, 1778 Roao Street, 
Berkeley.
Socrotary and Treasurer, Mrn. R. L. Whar­
ton, Box 147, Route 1, Richmond, Calif.
HARRISBURG 
President, John G. Todd, 20^ North Queen 
Street. Lancaster.
Vice President, Henry Y. Shaub, 20 Vi: 
North Queen Street, LancnBter.
Sccrctury. Frank Hifchberger, carc State 
Department of Public Instruction, Harrio- 
burg.
HUNTINGTON. W. VA. 
Socrotary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Sccond 
Street, East.1
JOHNSTOWN 
Secretary. John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
KOPI'EHS, PITTSBURGH 
President, D. ,T. McFarlln, card ICoppers 
Construction Compnny, Union Trust 
Building.
Vice Prettdont, II. II. Hook.
Secrotary, W. H. Neoly.
'froaKurer. A. G. WiiKnnr, togother with 
J. <.;. Rico, C. 13. Col I Inn, H. E. Warren, 
compoiilng a Board of Govornom 
MONONGAI1ELA VALLEY 
Prosldont, Conrad A. Stone, Box 391, 
Charleroi, Pa.
Vico Preiildojil:. Mrs. Alice Nixon Conn, 
care Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth 
and Dock Streotn, Sloubenvlllo, Ohio. 
Socrotary and Trensurer, A. B. Lowstultor, 
Lock No. 4. Pa.MILWAUKEE 
President, A. IT. Tostoaon, 7.17 Fortieth 
Strcot.
Secretary and Treasurer, R. O. Plrrlne, 
1425 Cedar Street.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kltalf, 4G09 
Avenue M, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Publicity Manager, F. I. Smith, caro H. 
L. Doherty Company. 00 Wall Street.
NORFOLK
President, T. D. Fitzgibbon, 811 Holt 
Street.
Many Theatre Activities 
Attract Carnegie “Grads”
Graduates of the department of drama, Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, arc earning fame as well a- livelihoods in practically every field of the theatre, according to a report^f the present activities of some of the more recent graduates of the isistitution.
The range of activities is from community theatre work to vaude­ville, and includes occupations as directors, producers, actors, cos­tume designers, scenic designers and teachers in dramatic schools. A majority, of coursc, are acting, but an imposing list of the gradu­ates is identified with the Little Theatre movement, in which 11 for­mer Carnegie students are engaged aj directors of community theatres.
Graduates who are now playing important parts in New -York pro­ductions include Hardie Albright, in "Gang War;” Lois Shore and Ross Hertz, in "Eva the Fifth;” Norman Foster, in "The Night Hostess;” Irene Kosinski, in “The Command Performance;” Ben Wei­den, in "Ringside;” Eula Guy, in "Women;” John Burns and Paul McGrath, in Theatre. Guild com­panies, and Charles McCarthy, in Eva Legalliemie’s Civic Repertory Company.
On tour are Maury Tuckerman, in George Arliss’ "Merchant of Vcnice;” Clifford Edge, in "The Dagger _ and^ the Rose;” Garret Kraber, in "The Trial of Mary Du­gan;” Joseph Woods and Robert Pike, in Fritz Leiber’s Shake­spearean Company; Charles Mc­Clelland, in Walter Hampden’s Company; Mitchell Blistein, in "In Abraham's Bosom,” and Bary Blair," in "Paris Bound.”Among graduates who arc acting in other cities are Carlcton Young with the Charles Wagner Repertory Company,_ in Baltimore; John Wil­lard, leading man with the Dudley
Oliver Hotel, South Bend 
To Be Team Headquarters
For the benefit of those alumni who intend to see the Carnegicr Notre Dame game .at South Bend, November 17, it has been announced that the Oliver Hotel will be the headquarters for the team and for the rest of the Carnegie following— students and alumni.A very large number of students and alumni are planning to attend the game, insuring a large Carnegie cheering section. For those who cannot attend the game {here will be a gridgraph play-by-play account 
of the game in the gym. Anyone interested may come and see the actual playing of this great battle. It has been said that it is a better way of seeing a football game than actually sitting ' in . the stadium. There will be plenty of rooters and seating spacc in the gym for every one..All alumni wishing to go to the game from here, may go on the special train leaving Pittsburgh Fri­day, 11 p. m. and arriving back Sunday, 9 a. m. The fare will be $13.92 plus $4.50 for a ‘lower or $3.60 for an upper berth.
Be sure to stay at the Oliver Hotel when in South Bend for the game.
Al Minetti Says That The Cabaret Dance 
At Webster Hall Was Some Celebration
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
President, F. K. Ziegler, S95 Union Ave­
nue, Belleville; N. J.
Vico President. Wm. .Sheldon. 6 Lowell 
Avenue, West Orange, N. ,T.
Treasurer. C. P. Marsden, Jr., 17 Hatha­
way Place, Glen Ridge, N. J. ,
Secretary, C. W. Pibbs, e/o Ingersoll-Rand 
Co., 11 Broadway, New York City.
PHILADELPHIA 
President, L. E. Kxllno, d/o Herman 
Iloopca, Inc., 1520 • Real Estate Trust 
Bldg.
Secretary and Trcm-urcr, Thomns Shea, 
1534 Minnesota Road, Camden, N. J.
PITTSBURGH 
President, G. Albort , Wagner, care The Koppers Company.
Vice President, L. II. Leo, 200 Stanwix 
Streot.
Sccretary-Treasurer, Buddy Ovcrond, Car­
negie Tech.
SCHENECTADY ’
President, J. M. Snmpson, 45 Bedford 
Street.
Vice President, J. L. Knight, carc Gen­
eral Electric Company.
Secretary and Trensurer, Raymond Gill, 200 
Union Street.
ST. LOUIS 
Acting Secretary, M. A. Zollnr, care of 
Hamilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine 
Street.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
President. Floyd Fisher, 811 North Fair­
mont Rond, Burbnnk, Calif.
Vicc President. . James Schoeld, caro Co­
lumbia Steel Corporation, 831 Pacific 
Electric Building.
Secrotary and Tmmiror, Botty Finkolhor, 
200 North Onkhurst Drive,-Beverley Hills, 
Calif.
Executive Comniittco, John Morcdlth nnd Robert Finkolhor.
TULSA
Prosldont. H. G. Toxter, 2202 Exchangiv Bank Bldg.
Vico President, Arthur J. Kerr, 1017
South Quaker Avonuo.
Secretary nnd Treasurer, If. W. Pontor-
man„902 Mayo Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.
President, J. R. Arnold, 21 Second Streot, 
N. W.
Vice President, Harriot Staples, 3011 S.
Streot, N. W.
Secretary and Troasuror, A. M. Prlnglo,
627 LoxinRton Plnco, N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN. OHIO 
President, R. A. Bookmcyer, 1515 Elm Street. .
Vico President, Fred C. Bcedo, 1324 Hill­
man Strcot.
Secretary and Treasurer, George Murphy,
1871 Selma Avenue.
Standard Makes of Tires
ASHBY & MÎNTEER TIRE SERVICE
VULCANIZING—COMPLETE TIRE SERVICE
6115 Broad Street, East End Hiland 1460
College JewelrySeal Stationery — Pennants
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
GOING AWAY
Go with a contented mind.
Deposit your valuables in one of our 
safe deposit boxes and relieve yourself of worry about fire and thieves.
Consult our travel department for 
routes, rates and hotel accommodations.
We offer a complete service for the 
handling of your checking and savings accounts.
Our officers are always at your service, 
for consultation regarding your finan­cial problems.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
Member. Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Avenue Crosses Forbes Street
Players iniChicago; Betsy Lindsey, ingenue with the Waterbury Play­ers, Waterbury, Conn.; Carl Reid, Russell Collins, Ellen Lowe, Helen Forrest and Max Eisenstat, with the Cleveland Playhouse, Cleve­land; Arvid Crandall, Russell Spindler, Charles Schlessinger, Don Wilson and F. Leon Ford with the Goodman Repertory Theatre, Chi­cago, 111., and Margaret Werts, with the Salem Players, Salem, Mass;Vaudeville has claimed Dorothy Raymond, who is being starred in a sketch, and Joseph Lazarovic, Ruth Aston, Josephine Copas and William Dickey. Motion picture actors among- Carnegie graduates includc Kenneth Thomsoi., who has played the lead in several photo­plays; Arthur Lubin and Mary Skurkay.Engaged in the Little Theatre movement ! as directors of com­munity organizations .are Frederic McConnell, in Cleveland; Howard Southgate, in Miami, Fla.; Alex­ander Wyckoff, in Memphis; Tenn.; Ramon Savick, in Nashville, Tenn.; Bernard Szold, in Omaha, Neb.; Harry Hamilton, in Montgomery, Ala.; Donald Marye, in Anniston, Ala.; Hubbard Kirkpatrick, in Bir­mingham, Ala.; Janfct Millis Shep­herd, in Savannah, Ga.; Charles Meredith, in Santa Barbara, Cal.; Marion Cox, in Salem, O.The teaching profession has at­tracted Arleigh Williamson and Harold Schaiighency, who are mem­bers of the faculty in the depart­ment of speech of New York Uni­versity; Marjorie Bartholomew, who is dramatic director at Miss Lig- gett’s School for Girls, and Valen­tine Windt, a student in the night courses' at Carnegie, who is serving as dramatic director in the Univer­sity of Michigan.The report includes also the well- known name of Woodman Thomp­son, who is one of Broadway’s lead­ing designers and who is a gradu­ate and former instructor at Car­negie. John Conway,, another graduate,-is art director in the dcr •partment of drama at the Univer­sity of Washington, and Joseph Mullen is engaged in costume dC' signing in New York.A large majority of the former studenfs mentioned in the list, it is pointed out, were graduated from the ' Pittsburgh institution within the past five years.
CARNEGIE DOLLAR DAY 
TO BE NOVEMBER 27
Each year we celebrate Carnegie Day in memory of the birthday of our. founder. Last year at this time the day took on an added significance due to the fact that it was designated as Carnegie Dol­
lar Day,In November, 1927, the first Car­negie Dollar Day was inaugurated, the plan being to ask each alumnus and former student to contribute $1 on or before this day to be put into the Carnegie Dollar Day Fund. The. plan was suggested by John 
L. Porter, one of our most promi­nent Trustees and Chairman of the Committee on the Institute of Technology. It was at once ac­cepted by the Alumni Federation Board as being a very excellent and pleasant means of raising, money for the Endowment 1 Fund. The Alumni Office acts solely as the agent in this affair and does not benefit in any way from the money collected—every dollar goes to the Fund.This year Carnegie Dollar Day has been set' as November 27 (not November 23, as was printed in last week’s Tartan). Dollars have commenced to ..come in already, and we have more than 68 -con­tributions so far. That isn’t much in. proportion to what wc hope to receive, but it is a start, and we are grateful to these faithful early contributors. Certainly each alum­nus and former student can, afford to send in his check, made pay­able to the Alumni Federation, or one of those green backs which slide out so easily from the bill 
fold, and never miss it. Consider the many ways you will unhesitat­ingly spend one dollar.- Can there be a more worthy, cause than this one of your Alma Mater’s? One dollar from each person may seem rather trivial, but stop to realize what they mean when sent in as a lump sum to the Endowment Fund.
As a result of thei contributions sent in for the First Carnegie Dol­lar Day, we were able last January to send a check for $600 * to the Endowment Fund Committee, and they figured that this amount would mean $1,608 for the Endow­ment Fund in 1946, so you can appreciate how much your dollars are going ^ to m^an to Carnegie Tech. This year we hope to at least double . the amount and pos-
Hcy, Hey! Hi Jim! ’Lo Bill! 
Well, gosh,, if it isn’t Alex! Gee, 
you got much stouter ! Here comes 
an old grad. Gee, he traveled quite 
a way to get here. Doggone look at that mob. They're gonna make themselves whoopee. They ¿iave some layout here—who’s play.in? Oh, that’s 
the Collegiate Six. Pretty nice ¿ of them. Sounds like real old times. “Red” Goddcii sure had a keen fore­sight. I don’t know where he’d put all this mob if he had this reunion somewhere on the campus. Sli! sh! “Buddy’s” rrfakin’ a speech. Will they ever qui’et down? Now, Buddy’s asking everybody' if they arc in lavor of another party. And how — he means next year. Vocifcrous praise and comment. Everybody consents by howling aye! Oh, what a racket; applause, whistling shrieks, stamping, yelling, loud laughter. Whoopee! that’s the scotch for choopce. Bob Nation has the floor. He’s an­nouncing something. Tell us about the entertainment. Miss Pennsyl­vania gives a song and dance num­ber. O. K, she gets a big hand, more noise. Now wc are delight­fully entertained by ' two pretty ba­bies, something about “I Can’t Give You Anything But Lovirt’.” Now they do a dance. They’re good. More applause and noise. A grace­ful young couple take to a beautiful waltzy number. Everybody happy, more rackcf. Bobs still announcing.Whose that guy that gives a big yell? Sounds like a Western Mary­land freight blowing for a cow. The class of 1908 must have come out to a man. They’re occupying a long table up there in front of the music. Occasionally .an old grad gets up to lead a yell at this table. Jack Beatty, sittin’ in the corner, laughing hard. Bob Nation’s .still announcing enter­
tainment. Don’t know where to look to. Tryin* awful hard to cat chicken and dance. The music’s- get tin’ hot. More grads coming in. Where are they puttin’ them all? Red Godden still busy satisfying customers. Atta boy, “Red!” More noise, rackct. The class of 1908 enjoys a private dance.
The floor’s theirs now. Horns tootin’, more noise; still coming in. ¦Bill Phouts enters. Every cliss is now fully represented. Oh, there’s “Sonny” Kessner. Bob Nation is still announcing. A circle is formed. Noise yelling. A few of the boys have the floor to entertain. Big surprise! Alumni exhibits some real talen in dancing. O. K. Noise. Still dancing strong. So much excitement. Can’t cat my ice cream. We have readied the hand shakin’ stage. Everybody’s visiting. Hey! hey! gct- tih’ funny.Cheers for Steftcn, _ Waddell. Cheers for the team. Right in the midst of a monster loeomotive yell. Gee, this gang can sure yell. More pep. Bert Munhall draws nine rahs. Everybody cheering hard. This is real Carnegie spirit. “Dear Old Tech” is struck up. Everybody’s lips are moving. Boy, oh boy, this 
gang is the crowd that wrote this song. No wonder they sing it from their hearts. Yes, the originator of "Skibo,” “Locomotive,” "Short Spell­er” are all here. It’s about 12 o’clock. Excitement is high. More old faces. Younger alumni arc pre­dominating now for the first time this evening. Everybody dancing. Just bumped into “Hugh” Sprinkle. Excuse me Hugh. Some tired looks. Smiling faces. Everyone still happy. 
The music has been wonderful. In-' tense racket. Lots of football talk at the tables. Musicians look tired. 
The past Campus Queen looks bet- ter’n ever. Joe Whitney and Joe Gibson are both here. Bagpipe mu­sic. Enter -31ackall and a _ Scotch lassie. Cheers, applause. Being en­tertained with a graceful Highland fling. Sword dance. Blackall draw a tremendous ovation. Bill • Finkcl all excited but business like.1 Few leaving. Waiters are tired. Every­one who exists goes out shouting a 
big “Yea, Carnegie!”Party coming to a. close._ Lots of smiling faces and handshaking in the lobby. More noise, from the lobby. Yea, Carnegie! Let’s go! Can’t wait till next year’s party. Whoopee!—A1 Minetti.
had intervened, with Campus and 
Tech as it used to be, in the be­
ginning, flashing anew on memory’s silver screen. (This seems to be waxing poctic or pathetic, but never mind!) Annie Howl as the Irish­man said, we talked of old times and old stories, of both in and out of the class room: Thosecultural lectures in Room 104, the "Muddy* Trail” along the site of the Women's College to be; and. ot" coursc, that first' football game with Pitt in 1906 . . . only it was “WUP” then—Western University of Pennsylvania; before the days of "Pitt.”
After 20 years I met Carnegie’s first football captain again . . . Fred Foster, who had come all the way from Los Angeles, part by airplane. He and his wife and sister spent much of Sunday after­noon at our home. And then we saw that WPU game all over again.' I had forgotten the score, but Fred had not; it was 6-0 in WPU’s favor. And Foster—more of a giant than ever with the passing of the years, and manager now of a giant oil company of the far west—had sat with 45,000 other football fans and seen the tables precisely turned-?—6-0 in - favor of "Carnegie!”
Only a few hours before the game wc had a whole carload (literally) of. these same “Naughty Eightcrs” delivered at our house, to .stay for lunch before going on to the stadium, and when they left they left with .us (“us” mean­ing me and Mrs. Follows) that one particular alumnus, with his wife, who, early in 1910, Avon imperishable fame by presenting to the world the first-born of Car-
sibly to triple it. With over five 
thousand alumni on our list we 
can certainly/[raise a sum which 
will be a conspicious contribution. 
The student's are-going'to join us 
in the movement this year in a 
very active manner. - Last year 
quite a number of them contributed 
but no intensive campaign was put 
on. However, this year the Stu­dent Council is "'going to present the matter to the students and it is probable that on November 27 wc will have a lag day, at which time' the students will be asked to contribute what they can af­
ford to the Fund.We are always telling you about the “two-for-onc” plan for the Endowment Fund, but just in case there are some who do not under­stand we will explain the proposi­tion again: The C.arncgie Corpora­tion has made an agreement with tlie Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology that if wc raise four million dollars for endowment by July, 1946, the Corporation would double the' amount, giving us eight mil­lion dollars, which would make a total endow'ment of twelve million dollars for Carnegie Tech. Since that time they liav.e been generous enough to state that they will double the amount of principal and interest, so that the sooner the money is .raised and put out at interest the more it means. for Carnegie Tech.Send your contribution in to the Alumni Office at once!
How Gold
Prospector 
"Went Scotch”
Minneapolis, Minn.April 30, 1928Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Dear Sirs:
Two years ago last winter I went into the Red Lake gold fields in Canada. It was a tough trail from Hudson, over 140 miles of snow and ice. There were fourteen of us on the trail going in, and frequently at night when seated around a big camp fire, some one would ask me for a pipeful of Edgeworth... These Canadian boys sure like our Edgeworth.
. In four weeks’ time I ran out of Edgeworth. I was glad to get ’most any old tobacco.
One day, however, I dropped in to Dad Brown’s tent, a 72-year-old pros- .pector, and seeing a can of Edgeworth on an improvised table, back there 150 miles from the “steel,” I perked up at once, saying, “Dad, I’m plum out of tobacco—how’s chances for a piper ful?” “Help yourself,” he said. So pulling my heavy duty pipe from my pocket, I loaded it with Edgeworth, packing it in so tightly that I couldn’t get the least bit of a draw.
I excused myself for a moment, and stepped outside to remove about three pipefuls to put in my pouch. Dad • stepped out, saying, “You’re worse than any Scotchman I ever saw.” Then I confessed. X told him what happened to my Edgeworth—that I was just dying for a smoke, and he understood right away. Ho said, “Boy, Edgeworth is.mighty scarce in these parts, but I reckon I can spare what’s left of that can. Help yourself.” 
You can just bet your last nickel that I guarded this Edgeworth with extreme care until I got back to the “ steel.’!Yours very truly,
C. M. Baht
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Professor Follows Gives 
Account of Homecoming
A grand homecoming record was made when, amOng^ hunderds of Carnegie Alumni, '3R out of the 52 members of the Charter Cl^'ss of ’08 . . . the “Naughty Eightcrs,” as they were some times callcd 20 years and more ago . . . met on or about' the Campus last week. I always thing of them as our Pioneer Alumni . . . the men who began the blazing of the trail that lcrtds now from Campus to all parts of the world.Many men, both alumni and fac­ulty, who had not met since first Commencement, joined hands once more and forgot the years that
ncgie, Elmer Wcldcn Schumacher, 
who—the son I mean—has made 
another record as the first son of 
a Son of Carnegie to enroll as a 
student at Carnegie. Is he there­
fore a "Grandson of Carnegie” I 
wonder?
I seem, as I write, to be get­
ting rather involved here, but I think you will get the idea; and, after all, that is what I am really aiming at. I am not trying to tabulate a lot of cold facts; in fact, whatever else this is, it is riot a technical article.To say that it was delightful and inspiring to meet all these re­turned sons of Carnegie falls far short of saying very much of it. What we are all hoping is that next year and for many years to conic'these same men will make the same pilgrimage for the Home­coming, and that those who were not able to come this year will be with us iti 1929.The week-end brought many vivid reminders of those classes of Tech’s opening day—October i6, 1905. On Sunday, the first "This­tle’’ (1906) was taken down from a dusty shelf . . . it’s pages turned: one result of this was that ' I wrote quite a long, and also over­due, letter to the first Dean of the Margaret Morrison School . . . Nan Smith that was, Mrs. Harry Hart that is. of a ranch with a queer "brand” in Melville, Mont. So you see how one thing leads to. another; and I have no doubt that Mrs. Hart, whose ranch is 60 miles or so from the nearest 
railway, will be glad to know how successful the first Honiccoming week-end has been.,
COAL CONFERENCE
OVERSHADOWING EVENTS
(Continued from Page 1) 
ing with purification and cleaning, 
with power and combustion, with 
liquefaction, with low temperature 
distillation, and with high tempera­
ture distillation will meet at differ­
ent hours throughout the day. A 
banquet in the Schenley Hotel will 
occupy the delegates in the eve­
ning.
Friday morning sessions will 
include meetings 'of the gas sec­
tion, the power and combustion 
section, and the high temperature 
distillation section. In the after­
noon the low tcmpcratuVc distilla­
tion section, the gas section, the 
power and combustion section and the tar and oil section will hear topics connccted with their special fields discussed. In the evening a public session is to be held. At this meeting, Georges Claude of ( Paris, France, will speak on “Some Thoughts of an Inventor on Scien­
tific Research and Inventions.”The final day of the conference the delegates arc scheduled for a general session, two addresses on gas and three on tar and oil in the morning, while tlie afternoon will be spent in taking an inspection trip to the by-product coke ovens at Clairton, Pa.The proceedings, the addresses, the findings, and the results of the Sccond International Conference : on . Bituminous Coal will be pub­lished after the sessions have all been held, in a two volume report.
fttänieq, Comparili ^fieatres
SCHENLEY
STAGE ATTRACTIONS 
Changed Twice a Week
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 14 
Last Times Today
CLARA BOW
in “THE FLEET’S IN”
THURSDAY-FRIDAY-SATURDAY
CHARLES FARRELL
in “FAZIL”
MONDAY-TUESDAY
BILLIE DOVE
in “THE NIGHT WATCH”
STRAND
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY
JOHNNY HINES
in “THE WRIGHT IDEA’
FRIDAY
CLAIRE WINDSOR
in “NAMELESS MEN”
SATURDAY
REX BELL
in “GIRL SHY COWBOY”
MONDAY-TUESDAY
NANCY CARROLL
in “CHICKEN A LA KING”
MANOR
WEDNESDAY
WILLIAM HAINES
in “EXCESS BAGGAGE”
THURSDAY
VICTOR McLAGLEN
in “The River Pirate”
FRIDAYiEffjjV MEERj in “EH, KAY’
SATURDAY—MATINEEBUDDY ROOSEVELT
in “THE PAINTED TRAIL”
EVENING^ JOHNNY HINES
in “THE WRIGHT IDEA”
BILLIE DOVE
in “THE NIGHT WATCH”
Muddle
Signal: "Timken-Equipped” for Sure Gain
THERE is one way to get "the old college 
spirit” into everything mechanical which 
transmits power through moving parts 
— see that it is "Timken-Equipped”.
For then friction is held in check, work­
ing parts are preserved to "FIGHT”,
THE TIMKEN ROLLER BEARIN
"FIGHT”, "FIGHT” wear with Timken 
tapered construction, Timken POSITIVELY 
ALIGNED ROLLS and Timken electric 
steel. This is worth remembering in buy* 
ing or designing motor cars and all other 
machinery.
G COMPANY, CANTON, OHIO
irnmnnMÄBSämiws

---------------------------------------------------

f
i Tuesday, November 13, 102s.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTScbc Carnegie flMaiò
THE OFFICIAL 
NIGHT STUDENTS 
PAGE.
PUPPET
jNighf Students Wanted to Sell on 
The Night Campus.
j >So. far there has only been oneE
ialne received as regards the sell- 
11 g of the Puppet on the Night (Campus. This was a keen disap­pointment to those who were able 
7.0 bring about this change, which Is quite favorable to the night st li­nen Is. Surely there arc sufficientf
irn who arc interested in the af- ;iirs of the school to come puti
'.hrec evenings each month for 011c- ialf hour each night.| As was mentioned before a suit­able award will be given those who ¡¡do this work and, since it is im- ¡jpej'ative that a selling force be or- :anizcd before the next issue is <ut, it is desirable to get the names of those ¦who will do this 'work.Send your name in lo the Pup­pet, marked Night Sales Staff, as soon as you can, or sec one of ‘it me officers of your school and give your name to him. Should you have any material that you desire to submit, send it to the [Puppet Staff and.await results.
ALUMNI DONATES BRASS PLATES
First Graduating Class was in 1908 I
First Meeting of the 
C. M. E. S. Held Oct. 12
To some of we niglrt students 
a question has arisen in our minds concerning the representation- or meaning of the five square brass 
plates laid in the floor at the en­trance of. the Industries Building. Well, some of us know that Tech was founded in 1905 and in those days, courses were of three- years in length and thus the middle square brags plate (Charter Class 1908) represents the first graduat­ing class of Carnegie Tech. The other four brass plates, years 1913, 
1918, 1923 and- 1928, representsgraduating classes, every fifth year from the Charter Class of 1908. These were an honorary donation to , Carnegie by the Alumni.
O yes, you don’t want to grip 
the idea that a "Forest of Arden" is being planted on the campus. Thcrd arc in the neighborhood of 
oak and sycamore trees that have been planted by the school for the purpose of increasing the beauty and scenic value of C I. T.
THEATRE TIPS
Stanley—The Stanley theater has booked for showing during Armistice week, "Submarine,” starring Jack Holt, •with pretty Dorothy Revicr in the leading feminine role. The thrilling wreck of a submarine is the theme 
the picture. v~rand—“Uncle Tom’s Cabin," with full sound effects, will have its local Wcmicr at the Grand after a long run 011 Broadway.' The all-star cast Assembled for the picture includes •such players as Margarita Fischer, Gertrude Astor.Davis—Headlining at the Davis is Pearl Rcgay, late star of "Rose-Marie” and the “The Desert Song,” in a charming act in which she is as­sisted by Adolfo Giron and Morct Freeman.Another feature act will be Fay and Rita Courtney, described as "Individuality Singers." Their soiigs are a unique blend of blues, syn- '.opjation and mammy tunes.Ray Hilling’s act called "Versa- : i I i t y ” reveals the tcrpsichorean ability of a trained seal.
One of the best helps to the stu- .ent is a dependable fountain pen. The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade will sell you a pen with "rxchange” .privileges so you can be sure that your hand is "fitted.” They also repair old pens of all makes. Mention this article for special consideration.Singer Pen & Gift Shop.
Good Catering 
is Priceless
No deeper expression of 
faith and confidence in 
our catering is conceiv­
able than the contin­
ued repeat patronage of 
those we have served.
¿Menus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions.
Weddings a Specialty
Nat Renard and Lillian West will offer "Hopping Off,” described as a trans-Atlantic comedy with song.Bebc Daniels in her latest Para­mount starring picture, “Take Me Home,” will be shown 011 the Da­vis screen. Neil Hamilton is the leading man.Schenley—
Clara Bow, the red-head "It” girl, will hold the scrcen for the last time today at the Schenley ¡11 “The Fleet’s In” with Janies Hall in, the supporting cast."Fazil” one of the most colorful productions ever launched by Fox Films is coming to the Schenley Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.Billie Dove will^bc seen ¡11 “The. Night Watch” Monday and Tues­day.Strand—
Johnny Hines will offer many laughs in "The Wright Idea”, when it plays at the Strand Wednesday and Thursdaj'.
Nameless Men,” a thrilling story with a very good cast supporting Claire Windsor in the leading role will be the feature Friday.• Rex Bell in a rip-roaring west­erner will hold the screcij. in.,"The Cowboy Kid” Saturday.Nancy Carroll, supported by Ford Sterling in "Chicken a la King,” is a story of modern youth and will be on v»v at the Strand Monday and Tuesday. /Manor—
NEGIUOO EaKgase,” starring-\Vil- liam Haines with Josephine 'Dunn as Ins leading lady, comes to the Manor November 14. Haines por­trays a small-time vaudeville per- former.
„Victor McLaglen is the star of he River Pirate," a thrilling story nf a modern Captain Kidd and his crew coming. November 13 Colleen Moore in "Oh Kay!" is coming to the Manor November lrt I lie Painted Trail” will be shown Saturday aitcrnoon. featur­ing Buddy Roosevelt, and Saturday Nigllt, Johnny Hines in the hilari­ous comedy "The Wright Idea" will be the attraction.
There will be a qomcdy, news weekly and topic.«? of the day with each change of bill.
Monday and Tucsdav Billie Dove will be seen in "Th'c Night. Watch.”
Ohe largest selling 
quality pxmctl 
in the wotld
ENUSPENCILS
give best service and 
longest wear.
10c Each
American Pencil Co., 500 Willow Are., 
W-27, Hoboken, N. J.
Makers of UNIQUEThm Lead 
Colorfd Pcncils in 20 Colors—51.00 per Doz.
My father said—
“John Hancock is a great name;
Life insurance is practically indispensable.’
That time, at least, he was right.
----- - .FreU shOmn-hIU agiD-h9:
r 0gOYghL T-g-IHmn.YYO
Aviator Drake Makes Interesting 
Talk at Gathering.
Room 104, Industries,' was the 
scene of a lively meeting pi the 
Nile Mechanicals 911 October 12. 
Bob Drake, one of the contestants 
in the recent cross-country air 
derby, gave a thrilling account of 
his adventures in the air. He also 
participated in the air meet at Los 
Angeles as well as the racc from 
Lbs Angeles to Cincinnati. Those 
of us that have never been up be­
came so interested that we almost 
let our enthusiasm get the best of 
us and would have been willing to 
take the bold step right then and 
there- providing, of course, Mr. 
Drake ¦would have, acted as pilot. 
Questions in connection with avia­
tion were answered in a most sat­
isfactory manner even though they 
did conic thick and fast. We arc 
sorry that more students did not hear this interesting talk of this modern knight of the air.After the talk and discussion came the refreshments in the form of pretzels, cider, chewing gum as well as the smokes. Perhaps the cider felt out of place with pretzels but given sufficient time these two commodities should soon become boon companions and it certainly Will be a new love for the pret­
zels.The C. M. E.‘ S. is seeking.new members. Many inducements arc offered to have the men join. The outstanding features being the small amount of dues—$1.00 per year. This includes copies of the A. S. M. E. News as well, as the oppor­tunity to subscribe to the Mechan­ical Engihe'ering Magazine at the rcduccd rate of $2.50 per year! All members arc entitled to free, serv­ice -at the A. S. M. E. Employment Bureau and the use of the technical library. Those interested^ arc re? quested to see either H. W. Sippcl of E. D. Smith. If these men arc not available, you may get in touch with .Prof. Trinks, Machinery Hall.The next meeting, is planned for Tuesday evening, No.ycmbcr 13, and all members who do not class arc urged- to attend. Air effort to have the meetings held 011 the various nights of .the week during the coin­ing ,yc;ir „is being expended in order to acc'ommodatc as many of the men asr.impossible to do' so. In .addition to . the meetings at Car­
negie, several joint sessions with the A.. S. M. E. at. the William Penn Hotel arc held each year. These affairs give the members an opportunity to associate with most of I he successful engineers in Pitts­burgh and surrounding, territory. This alone should be an inducc- .mcnt for any one in the mechan­ical line to join.
Well, we arc still in the run­ning for the championship of the East and here’s hoping that the boys can keep up the good work. If the team succceds in going through this year's schedule unde­feated, we can sec no reason why they should not be given the title, since their, games arc all of the first class variety and there doesn’t seem to be an easy spot in the whole outiit. Sec where our oppo­nent for this week pulled a sur­prise over the Army. Apparently those two early season defeats did not mean anything as far as weak­ening the morale of the’ team is concerned. Now that Notre Dame has reached its stride they will no doubt be out to avenge the sur­prise that Carnegie (pullcd on them two years ago. Be't Knutc doesn’t go to sec any other game this time.
Noticcd in the last issue that the Puppct/ is to _ include the • night students in their affairs. This, cer­tainly is good news'1 after the inci­dent that happened a few years ago. At that time those in chargc were very haughty as far as wc were concerned. They seemed to be under the impression that alt we should do was to buy the paper and be darned glad that wc were even allowed to do so. As may be expected this did not make much of a hit with the fellows and from the reports obtainable the circulation 011 the Night Campus was very small. Well, now that both sides have agree«} to bury the hatchet, wc on our side should do all that we can to help the Pup along. So here is hoping that the night circulation will im­prove.
It won’t be long now urf'til the first N. S. C. dance will be held in the Union. This is .primarily a night- student’s affair and is held the night after Thanksgiving; Only a nominal fee is charged in order to give everyone,an opportunity to attend and wc certainly should make an effort to attend. Quite
Carnegie Dollar Day
November 27th
Carnegie Dollar Day to Apply to Night* Students.
Annually a day is set aside on the Campus when everybody is given the opportunity to contribute towards this project. This day is set for November 27th, and wc hope, coffcrs will be •filled to ,over- ilowing.The night group is not going to be outdone and wc arc solicit­ing that you give your bit, 110 mat­ter how small.
The N. S. C. is always ready to lend its support to any worthy cause and solicits your co-operation. Sciul these donations to Miss An­drews, care Alumni Office, €. I. T. of the Night Student Council.
.SUCCESS
Succcss is, very largely a matter of choice with each one of us as an individual. Those who succeed are those who choose to succeed. In the majority of cases, those who fail are those who follow tlie path of least resistance, rather than put forth efforts lo sitccced.The matter that scuccss.is large- 
13* a matter of choice is very en­couraging indeed. It gives us cour-. age to launch an enterprise with confidence. This is necessary for fear of failure is the sure forerun­ner of defeat. If we work toward a definite goal, there will be little question of^ our success.
Then again, we must remember it is not commendable to begin an undertaking with a view of 
abandoningJt if it develops unfa­vorably. We should work at things that, are worth while and' things that are destined to be' carried on to completion. Then, if failure comes, we must face the situation as best we can.
—D. V. H.
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near Craig
j Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student
AERONAUTICAL ENGI­
NEERING DEPARTMENT
a few'of the, day students are there and they have always given these affairs crcdit for being done up in a fine manner. Now they arc sup­posed to be right up to the minute 
on such things and if they meet their approval why don’t you night students come ouL and see for yourself how tlie thing is put over. So let’s call up the only girl right now and tell her not to forget the 30th. It’s 011 a Friday evening. Don’t forget.Incidentally, we notice that some are not parking their cars with the rear ends perpendicular to the curb. When you don’t do- this, you arc taking up more room than you should and making some one else walk over from Schenley Park. 
Now, you ,would not want to walk this far, so why make some one else do it? How about it? Why not consider the other fellows?Heard a rumor that the Arts Ball would be revived again this year. Hope.this is .true, as it was at one time the most impbrtant affair 011 the Campus. Also hear the Night Arts' are to be repre­sented, which is also gratifying to behold. Hope everyone has a good time and that this time there will be 110 cause to. complain as has been the case with some of the past affairs. Speaking of,the Arts Ball brings up the question of Campus Week. Of course, it seems rather early to mention this affair, but in view of the decision of las! year, it seems that sufficient time should be allowed, for a real old- fashioned discussion 011 this sub­ject. To my mind the Mardi Gras was one of the best get-together affairs ever sponsored by Carnegie and it was with keen regret that quite a lew of the night students saw the passing of this affair. It was in fact about the only activity of C. W. that the fellows could attend, and usually as many as could get tickets would be out. Wonder what the day students think' of the abolition of the Mardi Gra’s? K.
First Night Student
Council Dance Soon
TARTANS SCORE
DECISIVE WIN
The first Night Student Council 
dance is scheduled to be held 011 
Friday evening, November 30, in 
the Union. Tickets will be out for sale next week. As usual a large crowd is anticipated. Complete de­tails will bé given in a, later issue.
HOW ABOUT SOME PEP?
More . night s c h o o I students, should attend our football games. They are our games, so why shouldn't wc attendt The next three games arc going to be real fights from staU to finish, with plenty of sensations and that is what every student wants today.The team can play much better if there is someone 011 the side­lines to spur them 011'. You know that they arc going to win. They know you know they are going to win and backed by 1 you, they will, win.Your interest, your pep? Aren't you interested in the affairs of your school? Don’t get that "I don’t carc” attitude. Come on, Night Students, show them > how strong you arc and take an inter­est in Jill the school affairs.
ARTS BALL COMMITTEEIS ANNOUNCED
(Continued from Page 1) respond to the appeals for pre­payment, and it was not possible for the coVnmittee to proceed with its,plans. Many protests were re­ceived , cc^\:erning the, failure of CarnegiiMo' -Jiavc this annual event, even Massachusetts Tech, who re­gards our Arts Ball as famous, adding its disapproval. The finance committee is taking carc of the monetary end of the Ball, and expect much encouragement from the student bodyAttention is called to the. fact that the first payment of one dol­lar is due by the end of the sec­ond week in November. This re­quest of the committee is urgent, since further action is dependent 
011 the co-operation of the Arts students.
(Continued froni Page L) 
plunged across the goal line di­
rectly under the arms of the 
enemy safcty-man. Har.pst^r’s place­
ment was wide. The quarter ended with the ball in Georgetown's 
possession 011 their own 30-yard' line. In the fourth quarter Car­negie worked the ball to the 18- yard marker. , Lctzclter broke through for a substantial gain, be­ing downed on the one-yard line, but was-called back because of an offside penalty. After another off­side penalty Harpster attempted a diQP-kick, but the ball'-w'cnt wide. 
The ball changed hands andGeorgetown started a-' march thatfound the ball deep in Carnegie territory when the final whistle 
sounded. The lineup follows: Carnegie—13 Georgetown—0
Rosenzweig _.L.E.-------- ProvincialSchmidt ______L.T__________ListonLovewell ____L.G.____ CordovanoMiclziner __— C—:__ Wynkoop
Dreshar_____R.G>.____(C) CarrollHighbcrger_R.T—___ Mooney
Sweet -__-___R.E..______ ToinainiHarpster (C)__ Q..__HanniganMoorchead___L.H._______ HudakT. Flanagan._R.H.._.:__—. DwyerKarcis __—F._______ Bi\rabusScore by quarters:
Carnegie -------------- 7 0 6 0—13Georgetown ______ 0 0 0 0— 0Scoring summary: Touchdowns— Karcis, Rosenzweig.Point after touchdown—Harpster, I, (placement).Missed . point after touchdown— Harpster 1 (placement).Substitutions—Carnegie: Eytli for Moorehead, Letzelter for T. Flana­gan, Shaughnessy for Sweet, Ye- rina for .Highberbcr, Schnuppc for Dershar, Dreshar for Meilziner.Georgetown—Scalzi for Hanni­gan, : Walsh for Carroll, Schmidt ic r Hudak, Hudak for Schmidt, Bozalc for Dwyer, Leary for Hu­dak, Driscoll for Tomaini, Schmidk: 
fcr Barabas.
Referee — D. W. Very, Penn State. Umpire—Dave Fultz, Brown. 
Field judge—J. A. Buckhout, Holy 
Cross. Head linesman—J. N. Ban- kart, Dartmouth.
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
Capital $300,000Surplus $300,000
Special Notice Students
Let’s Renew Old Friendship
Wc arc Ready .at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories from us.
LATEST STYLESALL SIZES
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone. Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Student Rates 
$3.00
OnS tudeDirc
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
GOG State Theater Bids.
Why Not Avail Yourself of 
Our Financial Services ?
FIFTH AND OAKLAND :: PITTSBURGH
(Continued from Page 1)
The machine is a boring seaplane 
with wheels replacing pontoons. The 
spread of the wings is 45 feet, and 
the wing card is about seven feet. 
The plane was originally powered 
with a Curtis Ox. 5 engine. The 
machine, after the arrival of its parts 
011 the/ campus, was quickly as­
sembled by students taking the aero­
nautics coursc. At present, there is 
not any engine in the fuselage, but 
one is expected to arrive on the 
campus very shortly.
In addition to the plane there arc 
also two fuselage bodiea, 011c of monocoquc construction and .the other ot wood and wire. The addi­tional aeroplane parts, such as wings, ailerons, etc., which accompanied tlie above consignment will be used in conncction with studies of aeroplane structure.
The sccnc' for this aerial atmos­phere is the ground lloor of Ma­chinery Hall.
INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL
(Continued from Page 1) abolished, was read and discussed. The Council decided, that inasmuch as 110 disturbance was caused, there 
was 110 reason for discontinuing the practice. This was not con­sidered a violation of the rule re­quiring all plchcs to leave fratern­ity house by 9 p. m.
An election was held to fill the vacancy in the office of secretary. 
On ' the fourth ballot Otis Leslie of the Kappa Sigma fraternity was seiectcd.
The Council Thistle picture, which was scheduled for last Sat­urday morning, was postponed be­cause of inclement weather. The picture will be taken at 12:30 p. in. Thursday, ¦ November 15.The treasurer requested that all 
delinquent fraternities post their $50 bond or else waive their right to hold social, functions.
The next meeting of Council will be held before the opening of rushing season. Cards will be sent to all ^representatives notifying them of the exact time and place.
INSTITUTE EXHIBIT MECCA
FOR ART CRITICS
(Continued from Page 1)The college students who attend either assume an attitude of blase critics coming for aesthetic recrea­tion or that of those looking for prototypes of burlesque queens. They, too, criticise with the quick, sure judgment of those accustomed to the deed, and, without delay, designate, pictures offensive to their eyes as being super-saturated with a com­bination of hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion of one to eight.The exhibit also ¦ draws quite a number of club women, who, after a fifteen-minute visit before an, ap­pointment with the hairdresser, pre­sent papers for the regular Tues­day meetings on “A Complete As­pect of the. International.”Long after the popular prize is awarded, the number of visitors counted, and the Exhibition closed, Rotarians, Chamber of Commerce, and “Pittsburgh First” columnists will point with pride to it' when Pittsburgh is refdrrcd to as a "low spot of culture.” And Pittsburghers will reassure themselves and prepare 
to defend the name of their fair city against Chicagoans or Clevelanders.
STUDENTS LEAVE FORSOUTH BEND FRIDAY
¦ (Continued from Page 1) in Pittsburgh at ^ a. m. Sunday morning.The railroad fare is.$13.92 for the round trip with Pullman accom­modations optional. Lower berths arc priced at $4.50, upper berths at $3.60, and drawing rooms at $16.50 for each way. Tickets for the game must be purchased at the Graduate Manager's office also. These tickets
priccd at $3.00 a reserved seat, will not be available at South Bend.
The Kiltie Band will accompany the students. Students and the baud will assemble at the railroad station, about 10:30, Friday evening.Tickets may be purchased by the students or by anyone else attend­ing the game. They are on sale at the Graduate Manager's office, at the Pittsburgh and Lake Eric Railroad Station, and at the City Tjcket office, 506 William Penn Way.
CROUSE SHOOTING IN THE HIGHLANDS
SPORT OF THE BEST
For generations the red grouse, has brought a host of 
sportsmen to the moors, whose zest j or enjoyment 
is as keen as their eyesight. Traditionally the 
BBB Own Make briar pipe has been taken along 
as a loved companion.
tdooyrcL over doss is the Lest.form of sport—says the real 
dog lover. He is the very sort who would never think of setting 
out for a day on the moors without his BBB aec sThD briar 
in his jacket pocket—or more likely, between his teeth.
For generations these extra fine pipes have stood ns the 
ultimate in smoking pleasure. Age-mellowed briar roots—• 
meticulously selected, expertly fashioned into distinctive 
shapes, individually baked by the old exclusive BBB proc­
ess, beautifully finished. And you have the traditional mel­
lowness, sweetness and coolness so characteristic of every 
BBB Own Make.
These -fine briar pipes may be had in either the smooth 
finish or in the sandblasted ripple finish, all marked with a 
red diamond on the stem. Five dollars the pipe. Wm. Dcmuth 
& Co., New York and London. Established 1862.
OWN
mb/e o —77~ Your 0m Qpembles
Sweaters
In innumerable 
colorful ways.
$2-95, $3.95, $5.95
Silk Blouses
To wear tucked-in 
or over the skirt.
$5-95 and ^7'50
Skirts
In flannel, -wool crepe and 
the new plaid pleated 
in butterfly style.
$4.95, $7.50, $g.50
The sportswear ensemble is the real college costume. It’s inexpensive, 
and need never be tiresome . . . vjithout going into the mathe­
matics of combinations, you can readliy see how many dif­
ferent and wondrously smart costumes you can have 
with a wardrobe of sweaters, blouses and skirts.
Short leather jackets at $15.00 will put the 
final approval of fashion to your ensemble.
G I M B E L S
Cimbel»—MAYFAIR SPORTS SHOP—Third Floor

---------------------------------------------------

C. I. T. FLYING CLUB
WILL MEET TONIGHTStudent Industrial Association To MeetMr. Sol Hess To Speak 
To Printing StudentsCarnegie Military Ball Is 
Scene of Installation of 
Honorary Cadet Officers
President Elect
Professor Gustafson, head of the Department of Printing of Carnegie Tech, has been asked to speak before printing organizations in 
York, Pa., and in Jamestown, N\ Y. These meetings will take place within the next few weeks but as yet no definite date has been set.Miss Cockburn, formerly secre­tary to Dean Connelley and later secretary to Professor Gustafson, was married on October 27, to James E. Harding of Akron, Ohio. Mr Harding is a graduate of Ohio .State University. He is employed in the Export Department,, of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Com­pany of Akron.Miss Cockburn was replaced by Miss Elenor F. Hill as secretary and proofreader of the Printing Department. Miss Hill attehded Gouchcr College of Baltimore then came to Margaret Morrison for two years. She graduated in 1927.Sol Iiess, Assistant Art Director of the Lanston Monotype Com­pany of Philadelphia, will speak be­fore the students of the Printing Department on Thursday, Decem­ber 6. _ Mr. Hess will speak on"Designing a Type Face.” He will present the various steps in the planning and production of a new type face. Mr. Ftess has been connected with the Lanston Mono- tye Company for more than 20years. During tins' period he has designed and redesigned a large number of type faces and orna­ments. The time and place of. this meeting will be announcedlater.
Carnegie Professors 
To Attend Meeting
Deans R. M. Ihrig and Professor R. B. Leighous have been chosen 
as the delegates to represent ,Car- negic at the fifteenth annual meet­ing of the Association of Urban (Universities on November 15 to 17 inclusive at the College of the City of New York. The meetings will include a series of lectures followed by discussion. As one of the chief speakers, Professor Leighous will deliver an address on, “The Liaison Officer between the Industrial Or­ganization's and the Night School in which its employees arc en­rolled.”
The Association of Urban Uni­versities is an organization of many of the colleges and universities of the lars/e cities of this country. Its purpose is to make a study of the problems confronting these institutions. Among its chief re­searches is that of the size of the city in jnfluencing the development of the students:- The association includes a study of the relationship between the employers and their employees, who are attending night schools.
The Urban Universities held their meeting last year at Carnegie under1 President Baker who was its presi-
The annual Military Ball is now 1 a thing of history, and those who attended were loud in their praise ot th<N affair. . The decorations, the refreshments, the installation- ceremony and orchestra all re­ceived their share of compliments.Much attention was centered on the large net of balloons hung from a central point in' the room «hd radiating to all sides. There were some seven hundred of these balloons suspended in a spider-web -formation. The balloons were a constant sou/ce ot . enjoyment to-: 
the dancers.At about 12 o’clock the installa­tion of honorary officers took 
place. The. major and the cap­tains of the six companies andthe honorary officers marched in after the sounding of' “Officers’ Call” and Major Lockwood pre­
sented the girls with their com­missions.- Alice Harding was made 
Honorary Major and Alice Bright, Jeanette Folmar, Helen Bright,Dorothy Roy, Ann Myers and Catherine Boyd were appointed Honorary Captains. Each captain 
then' pinned a pair of captains’ bars on shoulder of one of thegirls and the group departed front: the hall through an arch of sabers formed by a double iile of ROTC lieutenants. Shortly after the cere­mony the names of the men who are to command ROTC companies tins year were announced, A. W. Miller is to command Company A, Gordon ‘Durr, Company B; W. I. Smith, Company C; A. M. Fisher, Company .D; W. M. Mc­
Neill, Company E, and L. John- -bon, Company F.One of the features of the ball was .the first appearance of the new uniforms of our ROTC. Olive drab uniforms with a plaid stripe jlcwn the trousers and on the 
sleeves, and shoulder straps will make the Carnegie unit as snappy a looking outfit as can. be foujid. 
The uniforms added immensely to the color of the ball and tend to give the affair a more distinctive atmosphere.Refreshments^ were served to all dancers and the Faculty Club 
room was opened, to tht»se who wished to sit out an occasional number.
The patrons’ and patronesses for the evening were: President Baker, Director and Mrs. Ihrig, Director 
and Mrs. Connelly, Director and Mrs. Jewett, Director Kecble, Di­rector Breed, Dean and Mrs. Tar- 
bell, Dean Green, Mr. and Mrs. Bright and Director and Mrs.,' 
Molt. ¦%The chaperones were: Major and , Mrs. Taylor, Lieut, and Mrs. Ar- rowsmith, Lieut, and Mrs. Carter and Lieut. Cothran.
A Business Advantage
The young man or woman who can claim a banking connection with a wcll-cs-• tablished financial concern, will find it a very definite advantage in his business life. There is no better time to make such a con­nection than now.
While you ¡ire in IgssIngV 
open nn account nt the Mel­
lon National Bank. You may 
he ansurcd of our personal 
interest in your financial af­
fairs, and our wlllinnncss 
In help you with any prob­
lem that may arise.
HERBERT C. HOOVER 
The people of these United States 
upheld by an overwhelming ma­
jority the choice of Carnegie Tech 
students for President.
A. X. A. TO HOLD TEA IN M. M. 
RECREATION HALL NOV. 20
Alpha Chi Alpha, women’s honor­
ary journalistic fraternity, will hold 
a tea on Tuesday, November 20, 
from 4:30 to 6 in the Recreation Hall of Margaret Morrison for all Carnegie women who have worked on any campus publication and all freshmen women who arc interested 
in the publications.The purpose, of the tea, is to let the women working on Carnegie publications get acquainted with other women who are interested in working on publications and for all women already on publications to become acquainted with new re­cruits. The committee in charge of 'this tea includes Elizabeth Schlesingcr, Sara Elizabeth Won­ders'and Helen Whitehill.Mrs. Cranna and Miss Spencer, two honorary members of the honorary society, will serve at tile 
tea.
CRAIG RESTAURANT
412 South Craig Street 
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
! 40c and 50c
For Better Service, See Us—We Use Factory Methods
Tech Shoe Repairing
420 S. CRAIG STREET 
SHOE SHINING HAT CLEANING
were discontinued several semesters back because of the inactivity of the assembly, committee, but due to the efforts of Professor Mc­Cullough and through the Civil Engineering Department, a suitable speaker has been secured.The assembly will begin promptly at 11:30 and dismiss at 12:30. President McCombs of Tan Beta Pj urges a full and prompt at­tendance.
I urner, Edith__ E 50 26aHauser, Mary P1111E C3 X,oBrooks, Ruth _____A 50 259Isreal Dorothy ___C 50 253:McClelfand, Janet__A 50 253Due to the fact that I no rat­ings arc compiled in the Art School during mid-semester, none are available.
TAU BETA PI TO' MAKE CALL
(Continued from Page 11 in the upper quarter of the Senior class or in the highest eight in the Junior class'. OL.these eight three Juniors will be called.By securing a speaker for Science Assemblies and by the presentation of the slide rule to the highest Engineering Freshman (of last year’s class)', former Carnegie, cus­toms are being . revived. These
All Makes oi Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
iEfj Vijj Typewfijef CE., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 8320 
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg.' Branch Store
624 LIBERTY AVE. 428 FOURTH AYE.
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES
11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
Student Take Notice
Special Rntes For You At
TECH TAILORS
Cleaning, Pressing and Tailoring 
"COME IN ANO SICE STEIN” 
Mayflower 7795 325 S. Craig St.
8U ISPP -hR RUPrBUn
ANNOUNCING
The Opening Of
In’ Conjunction WithDr. Clapp was -elected a member of the ancient Academic cli San Luca of Rome.
Dr. Clapp’s lecture on the Inter­national will be illustrated with many paintings taken from the galleries. -The lecture will be open' to the public.
This policy will .be carried out each drill period, insofar as it is 
practicable.Next Thursday* the ROTC will be inspected by Colonel Deems 
frcm the Third Corps Area Head­quarters. .Tip's will be the third cime Carnegie has been visited by Col. Deems. All ROTC men are urged to look their best on that day since it- is from ‘Col. Deems’ report that the Carnegie unit will, receive- its official rating.
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
Beginners Monday and Friday Eve­
nings. Advnnccd, Thursday and Satur­
day Evenings. Private losi-ons by ap­
pointment.
C. J. BURNSIDES 
. fluii»« ofV. D. LANDON 
Radio Vatgit 
Detroit Junior College, '22
Forbes and Craig Sts.Mayflower 7891Sonili Duknta, Eclmol of Mines, 24
APPOINTMENTS ANNOUNCED
(Continued from Page 1)Frank, Grande, Scott, R. W. John- j son, Benko, Fritchic.
The list of appointments is not j yet complete. ~ Some of those who hold, commissions as Second Lieu-1 tenants will be promoted to the rank of First Lieutenant sonietime within the next two weeks. D. P. 
Young, iu addition to holding the position of Second Lieutenant in Company E, will have the title 
“Personnel Adjutant” and as such, his duties will be to take charge cf the ROTC roll on Thursday drill periods.
The men in the ROTC who hold commissions are seniors chosen for' abilit3r along military lines, and also for their ability to handle men, an accomplishment which is 
emphasized in the ROTC because cf the belief of the officers that 
success depends on the ability to direct and supervise other men, both in civil and military life. The training in the ROTC is admitted­ly designed to develop those quali­ties in a man which enable him to make a success in later life in other than military work as well as in'the army itself.
There are six companies. Each company will have assigned to it about seven seniors. • All of the lieutenants in each company Will be given aS much opportunity as is possible to command a platoon.
C. J. MADSEN. 
Kail in tnilallolio» Iinginr.tr 
University of Ncbrnskn. 26
A. N. CURTISS 
Design cf Transmitters 
University of Pittsburgh, '27
O. B. GUNBY 
Engineer,Photo Phone Division 
Dickinson. '27
S. V. TERRY,
_ Engineer'.Loud Speaker Croup 
Queen’ . University, 23We sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable and 
Standard Machines.
See our Big Supply and get 
special student rates.
YOUNGER COLLEGE MEN 
ON RECENT WESTINGHOUSE JOBS
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
JOHN COLEMAN 
Radio Engineer 
Carncßie Institute of Technology, '23
H. I. METZ 
Development Engineer 
University of Pittsburgh, '26
“I put it sqftare up to the 
Gov’nor—asked liim if he 
minded when I telephoned 
home at his expense.
Radio Directs the Navy’s Flyers
Style that Brightens 
the Stadium
On the U. S. Navy Airplane 
Carriers “Lexington” and “Sara­
toga” the situation is met with 
crystal control transmitters de­
signed to send on different wave 
lengths. Each plane’s receiving 
set has its own wave length. A 
turn of the dial on the transmit­
ter selects the wave length cor­
responding to that of the plane 
to he reached with a message.
Radio equipment on the “Lex­
ington” and “Saratoga” was de-
signed, built, and installed by 
Westinghouse— the organiza­
tion which in 1920 established 
KDKA, the pioneer radio broad­
casting station of the world, and 
which also operates stations KF KX, 
KYW, WBZ, and WBZA.
IVhere do young college men get in a large 
industrial organization? Have they 
opfortunity to exercise creative talent? 
Is individual work recognized?“He told me—‘if you don’t 
telephone regularly, I hope 
you turn out to be a Lion 
Tamer!’”
liiacti year the gay, expectant Cfowds that fill the 6tadiums P/Æ become mere colorful. This'lÆj ycar you’ll see a new andsmarter stylethat distinguishes I j all Alligator models. These] * new Alligators are far ahead,* combining the most advancedthought in line and fabric. Feather­weight lightness,lined or unlined, in a wide range of smart models. Abso­lutely waterproof in the most drench­ing rain, and boulevard smartness for fair weather wear.
Alligators arc sold only at the best stores and retail from $7.50 to $25.00. Sec the new Alligator Aviation model at $10.00. The Alligator Company, St. Louis.
\IRPLANE carriers are a re- 
cent development in naval 
history—and they have a com­
munication problem that calls for 
the engineering resources of an 
organization which has shown it 
can make radio history.
Complex maneuvers arc di­
rected, scouting ex-' m_9 
peditions controlled, Iff g
and far-flving planes 
recalled—by radio. W W
Opportunities to do the history- 
making things in engineering fall 
naturally to an organization with a 
record for making history in its field. 
And Westinghouse, quite as naturally, 
offers powerful attractions to those 
young college men 
whose initiative and 
I enterprise fit them for
history-making tasks.
Even if you’re “broke,” you can 
telephone home—just tell 
the Ope£tor to reverse 
the Charge
¡gSülS®
Administration Bldg.
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
-------:-------T]
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13. 1°?8, j

---------------------------------------------------

WILD WAVES OF THE IRISH "C”—BUT NO STORMTech Cross-Country'Men 
Do Well in A. A. U. MeeiTHE PARAMODE COMPANY
OF ST. LOUIS, MO.
Announces a New Fall Line ofIn the show and slush of Schcn- lcy Park Saturday afternoon, Eddie Roche, of the Pittsburgh Athletic Association won the individual cross-country championship of Western Pennsylvania, Geneva Col­lege retained its crown as team champions of the same vicinity, and tlie Carnegie Freshman show­ed remarkable form in scoring 66 points to Geneva's 43.' Westmin­ster College was between Geneva and the Carnegie Freshmen in team standing with 47 points. Car­negie's Varsity team did not run in the meet, being, on a vacation trip to the Georgetown-Carnegie football game, before their season finale with Grove City here next 'Saturday. Max Salkiij, of ,tbe Plaid Varsity, jentered the meet un­attached and scored fourth place. /
Although the temperature ,of the atmosphere forced the ’ thinly-clads to keep moving in order to keep warm, it also prevented them from breaking any records, by stiffening their muscles. The winner’s time of 29:47.6 was 37.6 seconds slow­er than the winning time in last year’s ¡meet, won by Woody Adams of the University of Pittsburgh.Second place, went tp Elmer My­ers of Westminster. He was fol­lowed by Dwight Piper of Geneva and Max Salkin of Carnegie. Thir­
ty-two runners started the race and all finished.The surprise of the meet was the remarkable sho\ving of the Car­negie Freshman team against the older and more ’ seasoned competi­tion i'll the race. The times for the six mile course chalked up by the Frosh were comparable to the early season varsity times over the same course. . Jesse Price perform­ed best among the Frosh by plac­ing seventh, which position was ahe'ad of six Westminster runners, and six of the Geneva squad. His males who did well were: Lord, eleventh; ‘Captain Re i chard, •twelfth,! and Meenan, fifteenth. Carr, Ab­bott; Koks, Sander, Krebs, Diges and Hilton scored for Carnegie. Although entered in the meet by Coach Halfcrty only for*experience, the first year men showed stuff that speaks, well for Varsity chances next year.Eddie Roche, the only entrant from -the P. A. A., was easily the class of the1 field. At,..the half- .way., .ttuuk he. was.- :] ending by 2p yards.« The order-, of-.the first .four ineir- ai: this. •; point was the same •as- -at -life fijii'sb ¡'lin.ej, except that Pipcr; 6f"< Geneva; "moved up- from sixth to- '.third .^jhice, therfcby ob- Jaiiii'ui- ;'i mr.lal for li'imself. Roche Hv;is ruiiiuug .Ttfoy from the pack .as : by- panted- over ' the last line, having, a lead of a hundred .yards ovci.'^M.yurs,. the next in line.The meet was handled by the Pittsburgh Press, as the aniiuai championship run of, the Allegheny Mountain division of the .A. A. U. Tile'.starter was'John T. Tayloiy and file referee William S. .Had­dock, both of the A. A. U. Medals were awarded to the first • three place winner,s and the. champion­ship cup,'remains with Geneva an­other year. One team each from Geneva and . Westminster, two' teams of Carnegie freshmen,' and 
four unattached runners completed the entrant list.Next Saturday the Plaid Varsity closes its season with a dual meet with Grove City. The race will be run at 11 o’clock, over the Schenley Park course. A win in 
this meet will mean a perfect slate for the season. The Fr.oslv meet Shadyside oyer the Shadyside ¦course^ in their finale on the same day. The freshmen have not lost a meet so far.
Order of finish for first 20 men:1—E- J. Roche, P. A. A.2—Elmer Myers, Westinghouse.3—r-Dwight Piper, Geneva.4—Max Salkin, .'Carnegie Varsity.5—S. ! L. ICockley, Geneva.6—Byers King, Westminster.7—Jess Price, Carnegie freshmen
COLLEGE SHIRTS
THOMAS LIPPERT
HOWARD HARPSTER9 624 Clyde StF
OR THE FIRST TIME this year the team 
x'cally clicked and played the ball of which they
are capable, much to the sorrow of George­
town’s undefeated squad. It was a wonderful 
game, all Carnegie’s, played on a perfect foot-
UjtK|M| ball day.
||t Yg/A THE LINE PLAYED as never before;
WflMif Roscnzweig was one of the outstanding per-
V;:/ ' , : i formers of the daj', with his end arounds which
V > j were practically certain to make six or eight
,/ yards. Dreshar was a fighting devil on both
defense and offense. Schmidt, Lovewell and
Highberger were spectacular in their line work, opening up holes 
for Karcis to plunge through, and fighting through the enemy
defense. Pete Flannagan was again outstanding in his scrappy,
spectacular performance until he was taken out with a torn 
ligament. Eyth would alternate with Karcis in slipping through 
and crashing the line while Moorhead would take long sweeping 
jaunts around the ends. No aerial work was used, much to the 
surprise of the Washington eleven. All in all, the opponents 
were absolutely in the dark as what to expect, or where to ex­
pect it, at no time being a serious threat to win. The victory 
was convincing and emphatic. The Catholics from Washington 
considered their toughest game past, but were rapidly lowered 
From their position in the clouds.
• :jc >): * i|s * * :(•-
HARPSTER climbed several more rungs -towards All- 
American honors, with his kicking, and field generalship which 
was superior to anything else on the field.
And speaking of All-Americans, we see several other men 
on the Plaid squad who will make a serious stab at the honors 
—perhaps not this, year, but surely next. ' «
Carnegie Representative by Special AppointmentCANNON
COVINGTON
ED COLLINS
.ÇARREDIO
CHEVIGNEY
JOHN COLLINSCOLERICK,
These seven huskies of the Notre Dame football squad have one thing in common. All have names 
*hich begin with C. Irish football followers hope these lads kick up a little storm with the aid of 
Niemic, Shea, Miller and the rest before the season end, though to date Notre Dame has beeh rather 
becalmed.Student 
¦ Suits
IN THE EAST, the Army, Georgetown and Villa Nova 
fell, leaving Carnegie and Boston College on the heights. In 
the Middle West, the Iowa banner stands alone, with Nebraska 
its only serious challenge. Georgia Tech, Tennessee, and Florida 
remain in the Southern running, while the Far West’s Big 
Three, Stanford, California and Southern California are all '-be­
smirched by ties or defeats.
We don’t count chickens before they are chickens, but with 
two more victories we can see visions of Tournament of Roses 
and McNamec speaking of sunsets and roses in alternate breaths 
with Carnegie.
CARNEGIE TECH CLAIMS EASTERN FOOTBALL TITLE
with Extra Trousers
Favorites of university men becausc 
their styling reflects the vigorous, un­
fettered mood of youth . . . Appealing, 
too, because the fabrics and tailoring 
are of the high order that college men 
want, because the second trousers add 
greatly to the suit’s life, and because 
the prices particularly meet students’ 
needs.
¦ I,OU LITTLE, Georgetown coach, complimented, Gai'negie. 
after the game and said that the best team won. He hyished 
us' success.in the next two .games. We thank you,. Mtk- Little.
SATURDAY THE SPORT EYES of the country will cen­
ter on South Bend. The Irish have successfully defended .Cartier 
Field for 23 years and from the way they were carrying out the 
Army men last Saturday it looks as if the “Fighting Irish’’ are 
getting pointed for another successful defense; Needless^.to say 
the Rockne men are laying for the Plaid. No team or. coach 
forgets a crushing defeat with national championship 'honors 
within their grasp.
REPUTATION OR NOT, with no player seriously hurt, 
we arc confident of a victory. It will be Steffen system against 
the nationally famous Rockne system and a bitter battle from 
the kick off on. We repeat, we don’t know how, 01* what kind, 
but we fully expect a win.loPDWd BoicDPhoto of Big John Karcis, Carnegie Tech star fullback, smashing through Georgetown’s line in their game at Albany,. N. Y./ which Carnegie won, 13 to 0. Being the only undefeated major college 11 the east with the exception of Boston' college, which has not had as tough a schedule, Carnegie grid followers claim the eastern title for their team. Carnegie has beaten Pitt, Washing­ton and Jefferson and Georgetown, and has Notre Dame, and New York university left to play.: OVER IN THE STADIUM, Pitt slipped all over W. & J. 
for a V-’i-O vic tory in‘one of the 111 utldiest/ wettest, and most disa­
greeable battles the Stadium ever saw. We are/all admiration 
for both the W. & ]. squad and their rooting section. The 
squad, although'it has not an exceptional amount of ability, is 
light all the way through and down to the last man. Plaid 
players say their game with the Presidents was the toughest 
of .the bunch. The rooters are supporting a team which is -hav­
ing*. its off year, but they have more enthusiasm and raise more 
noise than any two normal cheering sections. The Red' and 
Black has just cause to be proud, even in defeat.
8—PauT V. Lyle, Geneva.9—Ralph Cuslinic, Geneva.10—Robert Wallace; Westminster11—J. H. Lord, Carnegie fresh­men.
12—D. S. Reichard, Carnegie freshmen.13—Andrew Perrinc, Westmin­ster.
14—Dave Salmi, Westinghouse club.15—J. G. Meenan, Carnegie fresh­men.16—David Myers, Westminster.17—James Smalley, Westminster.IS—M. Forsty Geneva.19—Ross Ellis, Westminster.'20—James Anderson, Geneva.
The Blindfold (Cigarette Test
DIRECTOR „-------------------------------------------------------------
Dick Barthelmess
* STAR *
OLD GOLD HRgnJBC 1!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, the school paper of 
the Irish stronghold, says: “More and more the game with
Carnegie Tech takes on added significance. One wonders 
whether tradition will crash in dust or whether the game with 
Northwestern three years -ago will be repeated. Tech has the 
finest team in its history and from the way things look now it 
seems that they will be undefeated, at least until they meet’ 
Notre Dame on Cartier field.”
“Another important contest on the Eastern grid card for 
last week was the Pittsburgh-Carnegie Tech battle, in which 
the Tartans emerged victors by a 6-0 count. These two tradi­
tional rivals always put on a bloody fight, and this year’s car­
nival was no exception. The game simply marks another climb 
upward on the part of Tech’s march to football supremacy, cqn- 
fidence, or cockiness, as the case may be.”* * * * * * *
UPSETTING NO LITTLE DOPE the Rockne proteges 
took over the Arjny eleven to the tune of 12 to 6, which brings 
(:o mind one of Rockne’s favorite jokes. According to Knute, 
Notre Dame defeated the Army two years ago because each 
Cadet back flushed when his ^signal'"was called, and the Irish 
were able to nail tha ball carrier every time.
Rockne told Biff Jones^Army coach, about this after the 
game, with the result that last year the West Pointers were so 
carefully trained that when -a signal was called, all four backs 
flushed profusely, thus completely fooling the Irish on the trick 
plays and consequently-giving, the Army the game. That Army 
backfield, then, is (henceforth and forevermore entitled, accord­
ing to Knute, to be known as “The Four Flushers.”
But here we have the Army again falling in defeat'; prob­
ably the backs have reverted to their womaAly habit of flushing. * * * * * * *
“The grandstands cheer as the back breaks clear;
They rave and they shout, “That’s fine;”
But scarcely a soul knows who made that hole 
Down there in the muck of the line.”* ** * • * * * *
BUT SEVEN THOUSAND FANS saw the two undefeated 
and highly recognized elevens do battle in the Chadwick Park 
Stadium, last Saturday. With ne'er a game of any importance 
in twenty years the populace had seemingly gotten weaned from 
football and the promoters were thrown for a $25,000 loss. 
Tough, but such is business..* * * * ‘ * *
SOME FOUR HUNDRED local rooters hied themselves to 
the gym on Saturday to watch the grid graph do its stuff. 
Rather a long distant kick, but still a somewhat interesting way 
to watch a game at that.
The crowd showed remarkable enthusiasm and pep which 
lasted all night and became evident the next morning when they 
welcomed home the victorious eleven. Lately the rooters, to­
gether with pep-meetings. have more than fufilled expectations. 
Several more are slated this week; let's keep up the good worL
THE CURTAIN FALLS, Saturday, on Carnegie’s cross 
country season. The varsity winds up facing the Grove City 
harriers on the Schenley six-mile grind, while the Frosh meet 
Shadyside on their course.
With all interest centered on football, we must not forget 
the enviable records, both' the varsity and Pr'ebes are making 
for themselves. Every race has ended a win and from all indi­
cations it looks as if both squads will establish no defeat records 
after Saturday.* * * * * *
LOOKING OVER THE FIRST YEAR path pounders we 
see exceedingly brilliant prospects for next year’s Varsity. Lord, 
Price, Reichard, and Meenan. all are potential record smashers. 
With three years in the offing we expect to hear much from 
these Plebe performers..*******
A FLOCK OF RUNNERS streamed through Schenley last 
Saturday in the annual championship run of the Allegheny 
Mountain Division of the Ay A. U;. The biting winds and slushy 
paths made running an alternative to freezing but greatly cut 
down tfye winning time.
HALFERTY entered the Plebe sq.uad mainly for the ex­
perience while . Salkin was the only Plaid Varsity man in the 
race. Some thirty-two harriers £aced the starting tape, including 
three college teams and numerous men seeking individual hon­
ors. Salkin wound up fourth, while Price and Lord, Carnegie 
Freshmen, took' over the seventh and eleventh places, resped- 
tively. The Freshman team score rated them third place.
First Cigarette 
Second Cigarette 
Third Cigarette 
Fourth Cigarette
“Making a blindfold test is like conducting a movie 
tryout. But in this competition I found my star 
‘right off the reel.’ I named MPR 2gPR for the lead 
part the moment I tasted its thrilling flavor and 
its soothing gentleness to the tongue and throat.**
'Old 6olàRetailing is a pioféfesfeï 
foi a succes^fiB^gfe! 
Oui 0r¿aiuzal®f|f^|á^|^ 
Many of oui 
High.
Visit the
iuteieslin^-'iitföflil^ajll
tfieat promiseMR. BARTHELMESS was asked to imoke each of the (oar leading brands, clearing his 
taste with coffee between smokes. Only one question waa asked: “ Which one do you like bettP”
æî’ÂKsT.aie
'^!iSua^SS'
agû|pî®Dnecloi iot 
TOpitis subject.
<^&IJFMANNS
-V"...............................
•ftit TRusvñ or \jj
.. . and the hcart-leaves, rich ia cool 
and fragrant smoking qualities. 
Only the hcart-leaves. are used in 
Old golds.
Three types ofleaves grow on the to* 
bacco plant . . . coarse top-leaves, 
irritating to the throat. . . withered 
ground’leaves, without taste or aroma
© P. Lorillzrd Co., Esa :76o
Made from the heart-leaves oí the 
tobacco plant
RICHARD BARTHELMESS... endeared 
to movie-goers th.e world over for his superb 
acting in such First National pictures as, 
“The Patent Leather Kid." "The Noose" 
and "Out of the Ruins."
SMOOTHER AND BETTER-“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1928.__________________________________________________________THE CARXEGIE TART AXRockne Waits Grimly — Steffen Says Nothing

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1928.
Canute Ikfôn
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
Published one« evory week during the 
college year by undergraduate* of Carnegie 
Inntilulo of Technology. Entered in the 
Pittsburgh Post Office aa lecond-clag* matter.
THE STAFF
Editor-in-Chicf—Stewart C. Ralston
Plaid Editor___Edw. E. McDonaldBusiness Manager—James H. Seibert
Managing Editor-----William McNcillN'ws Editor_________Ruth BramsonWomen’s Editor-----------Dorothy Roy
Athletic Editor-. Thomas W. Lippert Alumni Editor——Charles R. Nelson 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Helen Reed Eugene JaremaHelen Booth Hyman J. LevinsonHelen Whitchill Kathryn O’Donnell 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Nathan Miller Joe B. JattersonSara E. Wonders Alex M. FisherElizabeth Schlesingcr
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Rosemary Barr Wilfrid H. WorlandJacob Carpe Henry L. Bunker, Jr.Catherine ’Boyd
REPORTERS
T. J. Boyle M. Eckel*N. Kline G. M. Wilson L. I. Shussct W. L. Myers D. H. Barr
IL N. MeixnerD. K Tomer I. M. Baugh J. II. McAtecrE. J. Dattisman G. H. Merrin V. I. Morgan
I. Levin 
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS 
Helen Zelcznjak Pearl GoldbergLudmilla Allen Mary Gordan
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Advertising Mgr.-----Robert H. WehrleAssistant:.__________David Ii. GenterWillis M. Crosby John Wright 
Circulation Mgrs.—Michael Malinich Carl Blass
Circulation Assts._,_S. A. Buttonari' 
A. Frank V. P. Jones H. M. Rosenberg E. G. Miller D. W. Seville
Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Of­
fice Hours—Mondny to ThursdnyB, 12:30, 
1:20, Paper made up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To insuro publication on the succeeding 
TucEdny, news items muat bo in the student 
post office or Turtan Office before 4:30 
Thursday.
, After office hours, call—
Bdltor—______________________Oakmont 667-W-Mnvlltiwpr 8321
Plaid Editor------------------------.--------Atlantic 1300
___Schenley 2389
Business Manager.....................—Schenley 0211
Advertising Manager—Schenley 9082
YHU ImY
Campus improvements continue. 
New roadways, concrete walks, shrubbery and trees continue to appear from time to time as the plans of the administration for a campus beautiful materialize. The most recent noticcable improve­ment is perhaps the addition of more trees to form the double line along our famous Cut, which was only last year placed in a navigable condition for winter traffic.The new trees arc of the same variety that are found elsewhere on the campus—planus oricntalus. Experience has shown that this «pecies is the most suitable for municipal park development, being affected only slightly by smoke, fumes, continual pruning and the climate peculiar to this district. It is of interest, incidentally, to know that this feature of our landscaping •Along the cut is due largely to the activity of the Carnegie chapter of Mortarboard, the women's senior honorary, and it is with true ap­preciation of their efforts that the region along the Cut is familiarly becoming known as "Mortarboard’s Woods."
WHY FIGHT?
Weeks ago an editorial was „pub­lished in llie Tartan presenting this paper’s viewpoint on the Canir pus Week situation. It was stated that it was believed the student body wanted the traditional spring vacation as it had been in former years. Apparently that supposition was in error. Certainly there has been very little consideration of the matter outside of a few in­dividuals who felt as did The Tar­tan. No reaction of any kind has been apparent on the part of the the general student body, who would naturally be most concerned with a Campus Week celebration. 
The results have been anything but encouraging for those few who be­lieved that to discontinue such a tradition would be a violation of student interests. It was felt with all sincerity that a well-ordered and properly handled Campus Week celebration would be a dis­tinct asset to the_ social life of the Carnegie community, and it is still believed by many persons that a very fine Majr recess could be car­ried on with signal success. But what’s the use?Whether Carnegie students are fundamentally different from the average normal person of college age, whether the nature of their work is such as to make social activity undesirable, or whether they are just naturally passive seems to be a current question. In any case, it would certainly be un­desirable to thrust upon them any function or activity in which they are not interested, and at present there is sufficient evidence to cause • the belief that Carnegie students as a body do not want Campus Week. Why should campus organ­izations go out of their way to try to maintain traditions that one might easily be led to think arc not favorably consicfered by the majority of students?In view of these facts, The Tartan is again requesting an in­formal referendum on the matter. What do the students want? If the many campus organizations will only make some indication of the general trend, either individu­ally or in groups, much can be ac­complished cithcn» one way or the other. If Senate representatives, class officers. Student Council members, will be informed of -the wishes of their constituencies, it would not be difficult to determine the attitude of the student body. If clubs, fraternities, classes, would only make some expression of the
PROBABLE SCENE AT FRESHMAN SHUFFLE
They’ve elected a new president. The official three cheers and “pay- as-you-get-them-so-they-will-be-sure to reach you” telegrams have been delivered. Herbert Hoover continues to nestle in the confines of a three-inch starched collar and "all’s right with the world.” From this groundhog’s hole, we can see little of the new "higher-up.” Starting at his trouser-cuff, and going up, he looks all right that way. Spanning 
his merry width, he again passes approval.This undcrgrad is not old enough to vote. Sometimes it wonders, "Who will be president?” but it can find no answer to its riddles. Once it looked for an answer to its riddle behind the parlor sofa and it found—dust, its shadow, and what was due to belong inside the sofa all the time—stuffing. Sometimes it wonders “Supposing it were old eonugh to vote, w^° would it vote for?” Then it thinks, “Supposing it were old enough to vote and knew who it would vote for, would its parents pay its taxes?” Then it gives up. The president is as good as elected. He, Hoover, is an all-right guy. It will give its support to 
"Hoiby.” •“Hoiby” was elected on the fifty-second heart-beat. That is, rL e., e. eg., for example, the fifty-second heart-beat from the first (Ipsi dixit.) Which, as my father says when he isn’t feeling well, is all in how you look at it (N. B.—My father ain’t feelin’ well these days, 
only every Friday, when he can’t get at mama’s pocketbook to get money to buy pop. It don’t like pop as well as father; it s young, give 
it a chance.)We'll start all over. Herbert is president. Alfred is defeated. Thomas is also fortunate. It was once president of a mud-pie club. The one that ran the slowest got to be president because votes was xn mud-pics and it had all the evidence of presidency about it. It can t remember which was worse, getting elected or the inawgerration. _ It sorta thinks Hoover better conserve on his strength before he gives way under the offal strain. It had an awful time that day, And later. 
Anyhow. .....It watched some people vote that day. Dummies, instead of sign­ing their names right, they had to marks Xs. That’s all right, nobuddy is going to tell what you did. Nobody cares. The way everybody but us stuffed the ballot box was a shame. Long live Carnegie.Which we don’t want you to think it is ignorant. But honest, it don’t know what to think about the new president. Or anything.* * * * *
“And why not?” objects our compeer with whom we have been dis­cussing the ever-vital question of "College in the Movies.”"Why so?” we retaliate. "Why should everyone including the col­lege student himself get ‘het up’ about college movies? Of course, they’re not true to life 1 Why should they be?”“Why shouldn’t they be” he storms back. “Did you ever have to live down an impression YOUR parents got of college from the movies they attended while you were away at school? Why my people would think I was crazy if I told them I stayed up all night to study only to flunk a Math quiz the next day! They picture their pride-and-joy-in- 
swaddling-clothcs of twenty years ago fitting around the city tripping the professors and using girls’ hearts as foot-balm. Why, when I come home they have that “God-forbid-what’s-going-to-happen-to-us-next” 
look about theml All from a bunch of pictures like The Campus Flirt” and “The Fair Co’edl” They’d never, by an accident in this wide world, get to know the humiliation we go through when we wear our R. O. T. C. pants wrong, or get bawled out in the Physics lab. If their agony over me was half so great as mine when I find out that the girl I have installed in the “dream home” of imagination chews gum and yells in a crowd, I'd like to tell that whole crew ¡^Hollywood to make nothing but Passion plays the rest of their lives 1”“But,” we objected.” You go to the movies to be amused, to see things which you cannot see every day. You wouldn’t want to see a picture true to the college life, you know. You yourself confess to its being boring. If the Movies give you college-as you want it, why ob­ject? You know they’re not true to life, and so does everyone else. If your parents are under the delusion that what they see is what is true, let them think so. It won’t be_hard for them to realize that they must not always believe their eyes in college more than in any other pictures. Furthermore, to believe that the two of them had produced a son so strange as you would hardly be a credit to the_ knowledge they have of each other. For if the law of heredity works in this case as well as it does in others, they will soon realize that they are your parents, and that you must be all right after all.”He was not convinced. And, in spite of the^fact that he prides himself on his opinions, we don’t blame him.* * * ? *
Seen while strolling the Carnegie campus: one man on the grass star-gazing at the foot of the Senior fence; “and he la^s him down with a wifi.” Knees bent in air, head on folded hands, watches co-eds de­part from school. Three Red Granges without the regular varsity publicity kicking a worn football. One discuss thrower, ready for an acrobatic fling; six co-eds arching with one arrow apiece. Cupid works efficiently these days. Seven ragamuffins gaping in Arts School' cellar window at the sculpture department; seven hundred students looking out of class-room windows. Two-year old plus nurse out> for a daily stroll. “There are no children any more.” How disappointing! Where are they? R. O. T. C. out for drill on the greensward. Right dress! Yes, since they got their new uniforms! And the Kilties?
feeling among their members, con­
cerning school affairs, a much more 
intelligent campaign may be con­
ducted, whether jt be for Campus 
Week, Senior Week or under-class 
fights. The Tartan again offers to serve as a clearing house for un­dergraduate opinion. Letters, the results of votes, or other “cam­paign” literature of any kind will be welcomed and will receive prop­er publicity. In fact, it is only the indifferent silence of Carnegie stu­dents that is disheartening. If Carnegie is to have a Campus Week, it will be necessary for more favorable comment; to be made. Otherwise, why fight?
Jingling in the Wind. By Eliza­beth Madox Roberts. New York: The Viking Press. 1928. 256 pp.
Those who favor the ultra-mod­ernist movement will find “Jing­ling in the Wind” amusing. Writ­ten in the stream-of-consciousness manner, the thought processes of animate and inanimate objects are enumerated with subtlety. The re­sult is generally interesting, but often dull and sometimes obscure.Obviously a satire on our mod­ern civilization, all manner of per­sonages and events are conglom­erated in a most peculiar pattern. Sympathetic readers will discern a novel treated as a sympathy of ideas—the declaration of a theme, the numerous minor leit-motifs, and their shrewd recurrence at un­expected points. The author has taken gentle but well-pointed thrusts at many of our popular fetishes. Our craze for cults, hero- worship, Freud, eugenics, mechan­ical development and monkey glands are subjected to treatment bordering on the burlesque.
Mr. Stuart Chase’s criticism of advertising our author has summed up in a paragraph. The electric signs flaming in the night are compared to the constellations of the heavens:"A great cavern toward the south had burst into light with a hortative saying, ‘Use Jett’s Laxa­tive. Try the Castor Kiss.’ Then over the Milky Way ran an au­thoritative command bearing the force of all astronomical things, saying, ‘Eat Beans, Eat Beans Now.’ Out of Cassiopeia herself sprang a patterned reminder in red and pink lights, and next spoke Virgo, the Virgin, behind a shield of lights, ‘For Poise and Maiden 
Beauty Use Shamrock Soaps, Shampoos. Shamrock.’ Scorpio then named a baking powder with praise, and Leo spoke sweetly of lovely teeth, shining and white, and warned in sinister growls of lurk­ing disease under the gums. Ser­pens returned them with informa­tion of Jett’s Laxative, saying much briefly in praise of Dr. Jett's 
or he warned darkly of a new
disease. All night the constella­
tions conversed together.”
The consort of an Oriental po­
tentate passes shrewd comment on 
our idle rich. She observes “that 
they arc hindered but little by the 
need for prayer. ... A woman 
there will punish her c,nemics by 
wearing before their eyes a cost­
lier jewel than the enemies can 
wear. When the festival season 
comes near an end at the close of 
the winter, these women fly to the 
fashionable doctors to. have''cured 
their diseases brought on by Hate 
and worry. ... I ¿aw a woman 
have a terrible fit called a break­
down because some entertainment 
she had planned for her enemies 
had not transpired to her liking.” 
The book is altogether origi­
nal and entertaining though at 
times somewhat marred bj-- repeti­
tions and incoherent passages. It 
is tastefully bound.
COLGATE UNIVERSITY
(By Intercollegiate Press and 
Syracuse Daily Orange)—A. college 
professor has distinguished himself 
by finding a use for the cribber.
Unknown to themselves, 30 suc­cessful cheaters at Colgate Univer­sity were studied by Professor H. C.- Brownell, and used, as labora­tory specimens, showing the mental and emotional traits of college men who cheat _ at examinations—and get away with it.
Information about the 30 was obtained by underground and unof­ficial channels, Professor Brownell states in reporting his investigation. None of the cheaters was caught even by a severe proctoring sys­tem.Eighty per cent of the group were found to be more psychro- neurotic, or emotionally unstable that the campus average. More than half fell below the college average in intelligence, and the ma­jority belonged to the type known as psychological extroverts—that is, good social _ mixers and more inclined to activity than thinking.“Contrasted with the student body the cribber becomes a psychological ‘type,’ ” Professor _ Brownell con­cludes: “His low intelligence maymake cheating somewhat of a necessity. His extroversion may operate to further this. His emo­tional instability makes it easier for the spirit to succumb under the two-fold necessity.”More than half the college cheat­ing would be eliminated if this psychological type could be elimin­ated, according to Professor Brow­nell. With the general type would go most of the “all-around” college men who shine in team and track contests, glee clubs, dramatic pro­ductions, and other bookless col­lege activities, the professor be­lieves.
TMC TRtSHVkft*, WHOSE TOOTBALUiDou is *5 tARO kMtcis*, YdBtUOA WHIftt OR TWO OH THE D/sNC £ fLOOft.
WHO READS EDITORIALS?
That the average college student 
reads exclusively the front page 
headlines ’ and the sports columns 
of a newspaper, are contentions which have been repeatedly made and, from observation, repeatedly confirmed. That this condition is sn indication, or rather accounts for, an intellectual stagnation is 
likewise evident. Truly, there must be some accounting for 'this leth- 
argy.Whether thé immaturity of the average student, the super im­
portance of athletics, both col­legiate and non-collegiate, or the failure of academic leaders is the source of this apathetic and de­plorable state of affairs, we can not say. Rather, it is the sum of all these vigorous activities—a sorry contrast to the more even, balanced European University sys­tem with the proportionate * em­phasis on things socially ; intellec­tual. ' The coffee house of conti­nental universities is almost a sym­bol of scholastic youth itself—a social, even hectic, student life that thrills to the issues of the individual and the world.In those coffee houses, resound­ing with the chatter and harangue of the inquisitive youth, the edi­torialist would find his dream ful­filled. Here the college newspaper opened to its editorial page would provide sufficient fuel lor conver­
sation and discussion. Here would be even the birthplace of responses to editorials. Here would‘be the final great infiltration of suggestive drops spread from the- editorial pen. Here might any editorial writer, certainly any serious indi­vidual, bask in the intelligence of conscious youth.Alas, we are forced to resign ourselves to an editorial public rep­resenting only a small faction of those receiving the paper. But this acceptance is not accompanied by too deep a local regret for the same situation prevails throughout 
American Collegiana. No doubt it is the combination of all the dis- tortional excesses and no doubt, these in turn are the result of America _ not yet having come of age.
When the college student will gobble up the' news in conjunction with the side glare from the edi­torial column, then indeed will 
the editorial millennium be reach­ed. You reader, have already reached it.—New York Oniversjty.
The Anxiously-
Awaited Visitor
Old Mrs. Briggs leans forth in her rocker, parts the curtains and anxiously peers up and down the street. It is_ very evident that she is in the grip of some very great emotioiufor the muscles of her face twitch continuously and she is drumming on the arm of the well- worn rocker in which she js sitting. A highly expectant note “is easily discernible in her kindly face as she looks around the room with its clean threadbare rugs, spotless floors and gleaming heating stove. The note of simplicity and cleanli­ness pervades the entire cottage for you can catch glimpse^ of the other rooms tnrough the door­ways.
Her kindly face breaks into a faint smile as she looks at an old picture that is hung in a bedroom adjoining the room she is in. The picture js of a small bojr. His black hair is in ringlets about his cherubic face and his smile shows bewitch­
ing dimples in her cheeks. His robust body is astride a rocking horse with his stocky legs pushed into miniature stirrups. When the features of _ the little chap are studied, he is easily recognized as the son of the lady who waits at the window.Taking a sheet of yellow paper from the pocket of her faded apron she carefully reads it and looks intently at the clock on the mantel. If it was possible to photograph her thoughts we would have a most interesting picture, for she is again smiling and a note of relief is spoken in her^sigh for a handsome young man is walking up the ave­nue. After all her years of hard work and toil, anxious years of worry, and heartbreaking disap­pointments in both social and finan­cial matters, she will have her reward at last. Now she may have a costly automobile, sumptuous home, fair-weather friends and social esteem, for her own little son has grown to a stalwart man who has 
recently become a football star at his large university. Now these things will be hers for he has in­dorsed Old Gold Cigarettes, Paris Garters, Schoble Hats, Weis Ath­letic Underwear, Fleischmann’s Yeast, and huge movie and vaude­ville contracts are in the immediate future.
The second of the informal pro­gram to be held at Pittsburgh Mu­sical Institute on Tuesday evening is announced for this week, Novem­ber 15. The pianist will be Kath­ryn Brose, the violinist Joseph Ternyey, and the speaker Charles N. Boyd. These programs’are in­tended for inusic-lovers who wish to know something in a non-tech- nical way about music, and in all fifteen programs are planned for Thursday evenings during the sea­son. A number of players, and singers - will appear on the various programs. Season cards admitting one person, -iire ten dollars. The programs begin at 8:30.
William Mcngelberg, Dutch con­ductor, will dircct the New York Philharmonic Orchestra in con­certs in Syria Mosque on Novem­ber 16 and 17. The program for these two concerts will be:Night of November 16—Bralun, Variations; Strauss, Till Eulenspie- gal’s Merry Pranks; Berlioz, Fan­tastic Symphony.Afternoon of November 17—Han­del, Fragments from. "Alcina;” ¡Mo­zart, Divertimento; Schubert, Sym­phony in C Major.
Eugene Goossens wiil be the guest artist in the initial concert of the season to be given by the Yost String Quartet Sunday after­noon, November 23. He will join the quartet in, his own piano quin­tet, Opus 23.
Besides a group of piano pieces by Mr. Goossens on the program will be some small numbers for the quartet, including a recent com­position of Gaylord Yost and the seldom-heard Arensky, Op. 35 a, which is founded entirely upon Russian themes. This work’ is dedicated to the memory of Tschai- kow'sky.
Members-, of the quartet arc Gay­lord Yost, Roy Shoemaker,, Carl Rosenberg, and James Younger.
MUSICAL CRITICISM By Joe B. Patterson
BAUER-GABRILOWSKIRECITALLast Friday night w6 heard the world s greatest two-piano artists, Harold Bauer and Ossip Grabiloski. Superlative artists, in fact; These two artists were here last season, so it was but natural that a large audience should be present to hear the finest exponents of duo art known to the concert stage. These two men gave -a program that was highly personal and most imper­sonal.
For ensemble, unity, entity, per­fection of phrase, tonal develop­ment, tonal diminishment, figurated minuteae, nothing more compelling has been heard here than the Shu­man B flat variations. This was done in a very masterful-style.Opening with the familiar "Fan­tasia ^ and Fugue” in A minor of Bach’s, we heard a fugue flavored and colored to a very high degree. It was a very fine fugal exposition, but with it all there was a quality of playing such as we don’t often hear. Mozart’s B major sonata was notable, for its _ andante cantabile. It was lovely in tempo with an allergo that sparkled and an adagio that was perfectly poised.1 he three Schubert numbers were stunning works, having come from the transcriptional pen of Harold Bauer. Indeed he did a masterful job of it. The fantasia had amazing figures and answers, the “Theme Varie,”* was an excel­lent piece of instrumental juggling, while the rondo had edge and deli­cacy.
Then came the Arnesky waltz and they played it superbly. Saint- Saëns’ scherzo, (played here last year and the season before that) closed the program in a stirring fashion. This is the only two- piano recital for this year, but we wish we could hear them play once again.
We have been rather “under the 
weather” lately with a nasty cough, 
so perhaps there arc a few things 
that have escaped our notice, in 
spite of the reputation we hold 
for having remarkable powers of 
observation. What with Halloween 
and elections and all it’s hard to 
see everj'thing! Besides, every once 
a while wc get rather bored 
with looking around, and we think 
how much nicer it is just to re­
flect We admit, of course, that no 
one has ever accused us of being a very profound philosopher. Any­way, we ask your indulgence,
Being a very impecunious person, we regret the out-of-town &ames our team plays. Football games mean loads of fun and very much cheaper Saturday afternoon enter- tanments than the theater. They are, perhaps, not always so edify­ing as the drama, but, neverthe­less, a very enjoyable pastime. Now that the Notre Dame bugbear is upon'us, let us all keep our fingers crossed and pray hard. We’re not asking for a miracle, only for a repetition of what happened two years ago. Is such a repetition possible? .Well, we shall see what we shall see!
It’s hard to think of plebe regu­lations being over in about a month. Not that we .think the plebs got off easily this year, by any means. We haven’t seen much stricter enforcement of rules or harder penaltes.for disobedience in a long time. As long as there must be freshman regulations, this new system is what we need. It’s much better to have just a few months of regulations and really have them, than it is to spread the regula­tions over two semesters with no visible observance of rules.' Wc hope that the success of the plan this year will be sufficipnt to guarantee its continuation.
There may be several million peo­ple who were pleased with the out­come of the election, but we think we got a raw deal. What we want 
to know is why Will Rogers’ name wasn’t evgn put on the ballot. Not that we’re old enough to -vote, but think of all the /hot air we’ve wasted. For months we've been campaigning for the illustrious' Mayor of Beverley Hills, and 'then they go^and pull a trick like that on us! '^In spite of ballots^ and electoral votes, we still maintain that what this country needs is ojficials with a sense of humor, ancl-r.you can’t tell us that Mr. Rodgers isn’t a better fisherman than his brother Californian.
LABORATORY EDUCATION
Autumn ushers in two other sea­sons, namely the football season and the super-critical season par excellence. The latter not only lasjs, longer than the other, but is 
perhaps the most exhilarating . . . from one point of view. It is the 
what’s-wrong-with-the-colleges sea­son opening usually with the Sep­tember issue of so-called high-tone magazines, and lasting until Com­mencement Day. Present, indica­
tions point to a most fruitful season. Witness an article written by a former college professor, a man who spent 10 years in one of our leading educational institu­tions, attempting to teach college students, 99 per cent of whom, as can be inferred, were not very in­telligent!
The author hurls two main chargcs_ against the present system, one being that the curriculum re-
From TheFence j
Wasn’t “The Jealous Moon” per­fectly charming? We’re childish enough yet to enjoy harlequinades and dream plays, and we don’t even attempt to deny the fact 'Yes, we still maintain that Beggar On Horseback is one of the best. Any­way, Jane Cowl is divine! The last time we saw her was about five or six years ago in Romeo and Juliet, but she’s still as lovely as ever. She seems to have been made for balcony scenes. Wc aren’t, of course, trying to compare her and her co-author with Shake­speare, but the Second act of this new play of theirs wasn’t1; so bad. And it’s the first scene of this kind that we’ve seen in years where the fair damsel's head wasn’t cut off from view. You sec we aren’t in the habit of occupying an aisle seat in orchestra circle.
THINK IT OVER
In the smaller countries of Latin 
America, writes an American pub­
licist, “controlled by our soldiers, 
our bankers, and our oil kings, we 
are developing our Irelands, our 
*Egypts and our Indias.” The Lat- 
in-American policy of the United 
States—"dollar diplomacy, with its 
combination of bonds and battle­
ships”—is cccentially imperialist, so 
he believes, and “means the destruc­
tion of our nation just as surely as 
as it meant the destruction of Egypt and Rome and Spain and Germany and all the other nations who came to measure their great­ness by their material possessions rather than by their passion for justice and by the number of their friendly neighbors.”Contrast this with the ringing words of Charles Evans Hughes, then Seci'ctary of State,_ in his Bar Association Address in August, 1923:We are aiming not to exploit, but to aid; not to subvert, but to help in laying the foundations for sound, stable, and independent government 
Our interest does not lie in con­trolling foreign peoples; that would be a policy jDf mischief and dis­aster. Our interest is iln having prosperous, peaceful, and lawf-abid- ing neighbors, with whom we can co-operate to mutual advantage.In other words, the United States is anything but imperialistic. Round­ly Secretary Hughes condemned, in another address (at Amherst, June 18, 1924), those “writers who ap­parently make it their business to develop antagonism and to spread among the people of this country, who have no opportunities for judg­ment from personal knowledge, the notion that our. policies are im­perialistic, that our influence is baleful, and that mutual respect and friendship are decreasing.Whether the United .States is, or is not, pursuing a policy of im­perialism *in relation to Latin Amer­ica, the facts set forth should en­able the reader to decide for him­self if he cares to do so. In­finitely more important than select­ing labels and bandying names, is .the clear-sierhted perception of the realities. Whether we call America “imperialist” matters not at all, but it matters much whether we understand exactly what America has done, and is doing. Such un­derstanding is the more difficult, because no man can' be wholly objective . in appraising the activi­ties of his own country; either he is blinded by the optimistic variety of patriotism, which can “see no dvil, hear no evil, speak no evil;” or else with the righteous wrath of the prophet, whether through patriotism or pacifism, he finds nothing to praise, ‘everything to blahib. To be conscious of this psychological predisposition to pre­judice, is perhaps easier than to free one’s mind from it.
American “Dollar Diplomacy” and financial control, backed up by occasional naval demonstrations or by^ the landing of marines, is not a unique method of controlling dis­orderly or insolvent countries. On the contrary, franc diplomacy and pound sterling diplomacy, as the reader will doubtless remember, were conspicuous in Morocco, Tu­nis, and Egypt as was ruble diplo­macy in Persia, mark diplomacy in Turkey, and yen ^diplomacy in
quircmcnts arc too extensive fn scopc, the other, the prevalent as­sumption that all fields of human 
knowledge are of equal merit. Thi first step in the reform is to abol­ish the fetish of the college degree which at best is merely the “trade­mark-of a protected industry.” It represents a meaningless > mas^ of work done to attain standardization 
such- as trademarks imply, in his opinion. One fails to see how the mere abolishment of the degree would bring about the desired re­sults. ‘The fact that houses of cor­rection and penitentiaries grant no degree does not in the least change or improve the training given there­in. A college degree signifies the accomplishment and successful com- plction of certain requirements no more, no less; and is silent as re­gards the quantity or quality of the courses , so completed.The relative values of various subjects are_ then . discussed by the author. He is searching for courses which his one per cent group of highly intelligent young men (the rest dismissed as not very intelli­gent) would find most suitable in being fitted for the companionship of educated men, after having cheer­fully thrown overboard their de­gree. Languages and mathematics with certain reservations are ac­ceptable. Economics and govern­ment are dismissed as unscientific ... . . veritable pseudo-sciences; here a whole year’s work can be com­pressed into a few hours of private reading. These few pleasantries can be overlooked magnanimously, but his estimate of psychology leaves one cold. He simply loathes it, for in his own words “no other sub­ject is today so dominated by un­controlled enthusiasm, fanaticism, ignorant and absurd pretentions” as psychology. ' One must conclude that the writer is totally, unac­quainted with Scholastic Psychology or makes reference to the popular psychology of the day, with Jung and Freud ?s vanguards to the* psychoanalysts and others of that ilk. Consequently one can readily agree with this complaint on pres- ent-day methods which profess to have found a cure for all imper­fections of nature. Real scientific methods of research have been dis­carded to serve the end of certain individuals whose pet theories have brought discredit to the queen of all sciences.The author has a solution for the whole problem. It_ is the study of more laboratory sciences. With the exception of ’ math and lan­
guages, the only courses of whose worth he is certain arc such scien­ces. _ 1-Ie would reject all other studies. _ This of course is nothing new, it is the (perennial call to wor­ship at the shrine of science.To say that science offers no such royal road to lcarningf is not to disparage it. Its wonders have benefited humanity immensely, but ;t offers no substitute for a liberal education. Specialization is the very antithesis of a liberal education.
If the college curriculum is too broad, restricting it to the study of sciences will be to go from one extreme to the other. The funda­mental purpose of a college educa­tion is not to equip the student with a specialized training in one branch of learning ¿lone. The student comes to college to have his mind broadened, to secure a liberal education. lie must not be content with mere facts, but must strive to apply his newly ac­quired knowledge to the problems of his time and age. Science as yet has failed to find an answer to the age-old problems of man and society. Hence the curriculum must be extensive. Science in its relation to education should be regarded as a means rather than the end.
China. Lending money to unsta­
ble governments, or investing 
money in unruly countries, has beet» 
one of the most widespread fea­tures of imperialism, and has usu­ally. in led to annexations, in Eu­ropean practice, whereas in Amer­ican practice “dollar diplomacy leads to financial receiverships, that is to the collection^ of the cus­toms duties of a Haiti or a Santo Domingo by American officials, or. to other methods of financial su­pervision. It may be pointed out in this connection, that the Amer­ican method is more subtle, achiev­ing as it does the desired financial and economic domination, without political annexation and often, as in the case of Suba, without much impairing interests with political principles, it has its philosophical as well as its practical attratcions.In congratulating themselves up­on their magnanimity in carrying out their pledge to emancipate Cuba, and upon the unselfish char­acter of American policy toward Cuba, enthusiastic Americans often ignore the facts and sometimes in­dulge in a self-esteem that border* on-hypocrisy. Nevertheless, admit­ting that Cuba was not set en­tirely free, and admitting also that there have been profits for private American interests, it may also be pointed out that instead of outright annexation the United States was content with veiled control; instead1 of unbiased exploitation, American 
interests promoted the economic development of the island. Toward Cuba the United States practised not naked imperialism but a more subtle imperialism, which left to the Cuban people a very consider­able amount * of sclflgovcrnment and which sought its profits in the economic prosperity and political stability of Cuba. In precisely these respects the lot of Cuba has been incalculably preferable to that 
of Persia, ICore(a, or .Congo.It would have been relatively easy to obtain from Nicaragua the right to dig a canal across Nica­raguan territory, and this route was favored by a cpminission of in­vestigation, but President Roose* vclt an dthe Senate for various technical reasons preferred the route across Panama. Roosevelt obtained from Congress authority to use this route if lie could make the arrangements within a reason­able time and at reasonable ex­
pense.The other obstacle, Colombia, seemed to be nicely disposed of when Secretary Hay signed the Hav-Herran Treatv of’January 22, 1903, with the Colombian minister, providing for a ninety-nine year lease (in imitation of the Chinese leases of 1898) of a strip of terri­tory six miles wide, across the isthmus, for a payment of ten mil­lion dollars plus an annual rent of a quarter million. Great was the chagrin in Washington when the Colombian Senate, hoping appar­ently to make better financial .terms, refused to ratify the treaty ahd ad­journed on October 31, 1903. Roose­velt decided to go ahead with the canal regardless of Colombia’* rights. He drafted a message to Congress, in October, 1903, recom­mending that the United States should build the canal through Pan­ama even without Colombia’s con­sent. In a private letter to Dr. bcrt Shaw, lie wrote on October 10, 1903, “I should be delighted if Panama were an independent state; or if it made itself so at this mo­ment; but for- me to say so pub­licly would amount to an instiga­tion of a revolt, and therefore I cannot say it.” Tic did not need to say it. Mr. Phillipe Btinau-Va- rilla and various Panamans, in the United States and in Panama, felt sufficiently confident that their ac­tion would not meet with disap­proval, to launch a revolution in Panama on November 3, 1903..American marines were forthwith landed, under orders to prevent the landing of Colombian troops with­in fifty miles ^ of Panama. The right of secession, denied by Lin­coln to the Southern States, was redognized by Roosevelt in the Co­lombian state of Panama.
Why the new republic of Pan­ama was so zealously shielded and immediately recognized by the United States appeared clearly enough when a treaty was signed on November 18, 1903, whereby in consideration of ten million dollars cash and a quarter-million per an­num thereafter (beginning in 1911), Panama leased to the United States in perpetuity a canal zone ten miles wide, oVer which the United States would-exercise sovereign rights, in- ¦cluding the right of fortification.Thus Roosevelt, in his own words, "took the Canal Zone.”
BULLETIN BOARD
In order that this column may contain a complete list, students in charge of events are asked to co-operate by sending - information to Box 407, Campus post , office, by Friday noon, preceding the publica­tion date.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1311:30 A. M.—Chapel: Little Theater, Arts Building.1:00 P. M.-r-Meeting: Miners and Metallurgical Banquet Committee.Room 65 E/ Ii. •4:30 P. M.—Dinner: Y. W. C. A. Recreation Hall M. M. C. C.6:30 P. M.—Meeting and dinner; Students’ Club of the First Eap- tist Church.7:30 P. M.—Meeting: Student Council.7:30 P. M.—Meeting: Aviation Club of C. I. T. Room 216 Ind.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14 4:30 P. M.—Pep Rally: Carnegie Bowl.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15 6:00 P. M.—Meeting: Teknon Club. Shadyside Presbyterian Church.8:30 P. M.—Musical Program. Pittsburgh Musical Institute.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16 9:00 P. M.—Freshmen All-Carnegie Dance. Carnegie Union.SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17 2:30 P. M.—Football: Carnegie Tech vs. Notre Dame at SouthBend, Ind.7:00 P. M.-r-Dinner and Entertainment; Women’s Club of C. I. T. Faculty Club Room.SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 18 6:00 P. M.—Meeting and Luncheon; Bandlue Club, Shadyside Presby-/ terian Church.
6:00 P. M.—Meeting: Oxford Club, Oakland Methodist Church. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19 Opening of the «Second International Conference on Bitu­minous Coal.
4:30 P. M.—Discussion: Senior Group of M. M. C. C. Speaker,- Miss Breed.
