TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
Carnegie Mêlions Student Newspaper Since 1Q0 6THE TARTAN
Volume 95, Issue 10www.thetartan.org13 November 2000
CMU continues planning for Silicon Valley branch
by Clinton Brownley
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University is 
continuing its efforts to establish a 
branch campus in Silicon Valley. 
Last January, the University and 
NASA signed a memorandum of 
understanding to establish a part­
nership and explore the develop­
ment of a Carnegie Mellon 
University branch campus at Ames 
Research Center in Moffett Field, 
California, about forty miles south 
of San Francisco.
The large, 2,000-acre Ames 
Moffett Field site would set aside 
40-acres as a reserve for a collabo­
ration between Carnegie Mellon 
University and University of 
California at Santa Cruz to form a 
branch campus. Initially, the facili­
ty would be used for cooperative 
research with NASA, executive edu­
cation programs, and courses in e- 
commerce, computer science, 
robotics, and software engineering. 
“Our goal would be to showcase our 
research and educational offerings 
in Silicon Valley, the information 
technology capital of the world,” 
said School of Computer Science 
Dean Jim Morris, who also said that 
there is an interest in many of the 
programs Carnegie Mellon offers
— not just computer science.
“A presence in Silicon Valley can 
enhance the educational experi­
ence of students at the Pittsburgh 
campus by giving them opportuni­
ties to do internships or research 
with NASA or Valley companies,” 
said Carnegie Mellon Vice Provost 
for Researcher Duane Adams, who 
has been one of the driving forces 
behind this initiative with Morris. 
“The next step is to sign a formal 
space act agreement with NASA, 
and we hope to do that in the com­
ing weeks.”
“They’ve only been working for the 
past few weeks. They’re just getting 
started,” said Adams. The 
Environmental Impact Statement,
which helps to regulate environmen­
tal impacts of future projects and find 
alternatives to damaging actions. It 
must be approved by local communi­
ties and organizations in Silicon 
Valley before any construction can 
begin, is cunently being developed by 
NASA. “NASA is now working on the 
Environmental Impact Statement. It 
takes a year to complete,” said Morris. 
“We have a seat at the table, where all 
the questions of master planning, 
environmental approval, infrastruc­
ture, and services are being worked 
out,” said Adams.
To assist in the planning, the 
University hired San Francisco- 
based firms BMS Design Group, 
EHDD Architects, and consultant 
Barnes & Company to work with 
NASA on a daily basis. “They are 
planning all of the aspects of the 
project, like roads, utilities, and 
retail services,” said Adams.
Although the educational initia­
tives have not yet been established, 
research aspects of the partnership 
with NASA are materializing. 
NASA gave the University $550,000 
to plan for a High Dependability 
Computing Consortium. “We want 
to undertake basic, empirical, and 
engineering research aimed at 
making the creation and mainte­
nance of computer systems a true 
professional discipline comparable 
to civil engineering and medicine
— disciplines people can stake their 
lives on without question,” said 
Morris. “As shapers of the future, 
universities should address the 
software quality problem now, 
before the world at large sees a cri­
sis. NASA has problems in this area 
for us to work on.”
Morris has created a software 
quality steering group that includes 
the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, the Georgia Institute of 
Technology, and the University of 
Washington. He also has many com­
panies in Silicon Valley expressing 
interest in the project. “In the 
future, we will need to have a cam- 
See CAMPUS, page A3
University holds dinner to discuss possible 
tuition increases with students, parents
by Brad Grantz
Business Editor
It is often said that the way to a man’s heart 
is through his stomach. Carnegie Mellon might 
have interpreted that as a man’s wallet because 
on Monday, November 6, the University admin­
istration conducted a tuition meeting and din­
ner for undergraduate students and parents in 
the University Center.
Parents and students were requested to pro­
vide the administration „with their concerns 
and feelings toward what might be another 
tuition rate increase for the 2001-02 school 
year. Current freshman encountered a 11.4% 
hike in tuition upon enrolling at CMU, while
upperclassmen experienced an increase under 
two percent. Provost Mark Kamlet commenced 
the evening with a review of the University’s 
mission statement and current strategic plan.
While discussing the importance and expan­
sion of the meta-curriculum, the student life 
facet of an undergraduate education, Kamlet 
also pointed to the University’s position in the 
research and education of the evolving biotech­
nology field. Kamlet also reported the extraor­
dinary cost of the renovation of the undergrad­
uate science laboratories, a project that could 
total near $26 million, according to Vice 
President of Planning Jeff Bolton.
One of the most deliberated themes of the 
evening was interdisciplinary education. Kamlet 
explained the hourglass approach to curriculum
progress. The idea funnels underclassmen into 
their major through broad encore subjects. The 
model then expands an upperclassmen’s educa­
tion to other fields as well during his or her 
senior year. Kamlet pointed to the newly created 
Center for Humanities in the Arts as well as the 
need to expand the information technological 
know-how of the University in various disci­
plines. He mentioned the Center for Technology 
in Education, a project meant to study and inno­
vate the ways computers and new technologies 
can affect a learning environment.
The Provost mulled over the development of 
the leadership skills for students. “Our students 
will become broadly educated and humane lead­
ers who will have an important impact in their 
See TUITION, page A3
Carnegie Mellon University is represented by the middle three bars in the above graph.
Mike Zlmmer/Dòssier Design Editor
Heinz Co. holds sales meeting in University Center
by Aseem Gupta
Online Editor
Last Wednesday, the H.J. Heinz Company 
held its national sales meeting in the University 
Center, in apparent violation of the mission 
statement of the UC. Heinz, a $15.3 billion 
company with annual sales in 2000 of $9.4 bil­
lion, held the event to inform, educate, and 
train its national sales force, according to the 
University. Furthermore, the company was 
allowed to display two 10-foot-tall Heinz icons,
Charlie the Tuna and a Heinz ketchup squeeze 
bottle. CMU, in turn, was paid an undisclosed 
amount by Heinz.
According to the UC’s mission statement, “The 
University Center provides facilities for teaching 
and learning that may be used by the members 
of the campus community or external organiza­
tions whose primary purpose is education.” 
According to Marcia Gerwig, director of the UC, 
the UC does allow the facilities to be utilized by 
organizations whose primary purpose is educa­
tion. “Heinz Corporation was extended the use 
of the University Center as an outreach to our
community,” said Gerwig.
Asked whether or not her company’s primary 
purpose is education, , a corporate communica­
tions representative at Heinz’s world headquar­
ters declined to comment. She simply said that 
Heinz is a “food processing company.” The orga­
nizer of the event, a CMU graduate who works 
in Heinz’s frozen foods division also refused to 
comment on what the purpose of Heinz is, say­
ing that he did not want to involve his company 
in CMU’s internal policies. He said that Heinz 
made a legal agreement with the University to 
use the UC.
Students react to recent US Presidential elections
by Sara Stille
News Editor
. After the confusion and close­
ness of last Tuesday’s Presidential 
elections, many CMU students 
and faculty had mixed feelings 
about the handling of the elec­
tions, Florida election ballots, and 
the electoral college. The event 
caused heated debates on bboards 
such as cmu.misc.market and also 
studies and comments by CMU 
faculty.
After noticing irregularities in 
the voting patterns of Florida 
after the elections last Tuesday, 
Greg Adams, an assistant profes­
sor of social science and decision 
sciences, wrote a report dis­
cussing his statistical discoveries 
regarding the results from Palm 
Beach county. Adams. and his 
wife, Chris Fastnow, a political 
scientist and director of the 
Center for Women in Politics at 
Chatham College, reasoned that 
if enought voters in Palm Beach 
mistakenly voted for Buchanan,
it would be statistically 
detectable. They did three plots: 
one of Buchanan’s votes versus 
the total votes in each county, 
one of Buchanan’s votes versus 
Bush’s votes, and one of 
Buchanan’s votes versus Gore’s. 
Adams discovered that all of the 
counties seemed to follow a basic 
pattern except for Palm Beach. 
He said that Palm Beach seemed 
to have more votes for Buchanan 
than would be reasonably 
expected.
“The results seem to suggest 
that indeed something unique 
happened in Palm Beach county. 
Just by visual inspection of the 
charts below, it appears that 
instead of the 3407 votes- 
Buchanan received in Palm 
Beach county, he probably, 
would have received under 1000 
votes, if the other counties in 
Florida are any guide,” said; 
Adams, in a recent report. “A 
county with only a few thousand 
people would be very unlikely to 
generate a Buchanan vote that’s 
See ELECTIONS, page A5
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Forum
So what exciting is going on in 
the world? We’ve got elections, 
foreign affairs, twins, and col­
leges, page A6
Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor
As a class project, several students in the Mapping the Terrain class constructed a maze in Kirr Commons in the UC on Sunday. The maze is 
made of chicken wire and then filled with garbage. It is made to symbolize the amount of garbage produced at CMU and wastefulness of the 
University. The project will be up from Sunday through Thursday.
Arts & Living
Voltron? PlayStation? It must 
be Geek Week. PLUS: The 
Regina Miller Gallery opens 
with a new exhibit, page B1
Science & Technology
Child development, handheld 
commanders, and much more 
can be found here this week, page B4
Sports
Tartan football routs Gannon 
University, 48-7, in their last 
game of the season. The swim 
team competes in Quad meet 
at home, page A10
Entertainment
This section is brought to you by 
the number 4: 4 movie reviews 
and 4 CD previews, page B7

---------------------------------------------------

A2THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13, 2000
WIRE'»"
Florida county orders manual recount
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — 
Palm Beach County election offi­
cials awarded three dozen addition­
al votes to Al Gore following a 
mechanical recount and then decid­
ed that all 425,000 votes cast last 
week should be counted by hand.
George W. Bush retained his lead 
in Florida after Saturday’s machine 
recount showed Gore adding 36 
votes and Bush losing three. A hand 
count of four selected precincts 
turned up enough errors in the elec­
tion night vote to prompt the 
Democratic majority on the county 
election commission to order the 
hand recount in all 531 precincts. 
The county is a Democratic strong­
hold and the decision to order a 
recount was made over strenuous 
Republican objections with 
prospects for an appeal. Palm Beach 
County could be key in deciding 
whether Gore or Bush captures 
Florida’s 25 electoral votes and 
becomes the next President.
“This clearly would affect the 
national vote,” said Carol Roberts, 
a county commissioner and a 
member of the canvassing com­
mission. The panel’s vote was 2-1, 
with the two Democrats on the 
board voting for the hand recount. 
The third member, County Judge 
Charles Burton, has not specified 
any party affiliation.
A lawyer for the Republican 
Party, Mark Wallace, objected to a 
further manual recount. “We vig­
orously lodge our protest and 
plead with you not to put the coun­
ty through that.”
Burton wanted an advisory 
opinion from the secretary of state 
before proceeding with a hand 
count. After the vote, Burton said:
“I would like to be more fully 
informed before this board makes 
such a serious decision that affects 
the whole country.” Burton later 
told reporters he would seek to 
block the board’s action. The 
board plans to meet again Monday 
to discuss the next move.
Republicans still hope to block a 
hand recount. They asked a feder­
al judge on Saturday to prevent 
hand counting, but the judge set a 
hearing for Monday to consider 
the case. Later on Sunday, Volusia 
County planned to begin a full 
hand recount of all the county’s 
184,018 ballots. Palm Beach 
County has been at the center of 
the struggle over the presidential 
election. Some voters complained 
that its so-called “butterfly” ballot 
was so confusing it caused them to 
mistakenly cast votes for Pat 
Buchanan instead of Gore.
The hand recount was unlikely to 
affect votes mistakenly cast for 
Buchanan because voters’ inten­
tions cannot be determined in such 
a count.
In the hand recount, 80 ballots 
were tossed out because voters had 
punched holes for both Gore and 
Buchanan. The hand recount 
involved four precincts — one in 
Palm Beach Gardens, two in Boca 
Raton and one in Delray Beach. 
About 30,000 ballots have been 
rejected in Palm Beach County 
because they had two or more holes 
punched for president - or computers 
didn’t detect any holes at all. Ballots 
with two votes also are rejected in 
hand counts. The county figures 
released Sunday further cut Bush’s 
lead over Gore in Florida. An unoffi­
cial Associated Press canvass of the
presidential vote in Florida showed 
Bush now has a 288-vote lead.
On Friday, Secretary of State 
Katherine Harris said Bush had 
2,910,074 votes to Gore’s 
2,909,114, a difference of 960, with 
one county still to be recounted — 
Palm Beach County where the AP 
showed a big gain for Gore. The 
totals from the AP canvass were 
Bush 2,910,195, Gore 2,909,907. 
Those numbers reflect the latest 
figures from Palm Beach County.
The state has been unable to 
include updated Palm Beach 
County figures in its tally because 
a state judge issued an injunction 
Thursday in response to lawsuits 
filed by voters claiming confusion 
over the ballot design.
Further complicating the picture, 
election officials in Polk County 
said that a rescan of 92 of 163 
precincts resulted in a gain of 104 
votes for Bush and seven for Gore. 
These are votes that had not been 
recorded in the previous count and 
recount of ballots. Election authori­
ties stopped short of making the fig­
ures official pending a meeting on 
Monday to certify the totals and 
report those to the state.
Palm Beach County officials said 
their exhaustive manual recount 
found numerous differences from 
the machine count. Roberts said 
the errors point to potentially 
1,900 errors county wide — more 
than the existing statewide margin 
between Bush and Gore.
The new Palm Beach machine 
tabulation, the third in this popu­
lous Democratic-leaning county, 
gave Gore 269,732, or an addition 
of 36 votes, and Bush 152,951, or 
minus three, in the county.
Poll: American voters want fair count
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
Americans by a 3-to-l margin say 
it’s more important to make certain 
the vote count in Florida has been 
fair and accurate than to resolve 
matters quickly, a poll suggests.
The Newsweek poll said by a 72 
percent to 25 percent margin that 
making sure the count is fair and 
accurate is more important.
And the poll out Saturday said 
two-thirds of Americans think Al 
Gore did the right thing when he 
withdrew his concession in the 
very close presidential election 
that has not yet been decided.
In a CNN-Time poll released 
Saturday, four in 10 said Gore 
should wait for any court decisions 
on contested ballots in Florida. A 
fourth said Gore should concede 
immediately, while another fourth 
thought he should concede if he 
loses the official vote that wraps 
up next Friday.
More than half of those sur­
veyed, 54 percent, said in the 
CNN-Time poll that George W. 
Bush should not ask for recounts in 
other states, which the Bush cam­
paign has hinted it will do in Iowa, 
Wisconsin, and New Mexico, 
where Gore came out ahead.
Three-fourths in that poll said if 
Bush is elected with fewer popular 
votes it would have no effect on his 
presidency, while under a fourth said 
it would make him less effective.
People were evenly split on the 
question of a new election in Palm 
Beach County, where there have 
been widespread complaints about 
voter confusion over an unortho­
dox ballot style. But two-thirds 
were opposed to a new election in 
Florida and three-fourths opposed 
to a new election nationwide.
Just over half of Americans in 
the CNN-Time poll said the Gore 
campaign is acting responsibly 
while the votes are being recount­
ed in Florida. A third said his cam-
Corrections & Clarifications
In Volume 95, Issue 9, in the Aits & Living section, page B3, a headline read “Elliot Smith fills McConomy up 
with ‘monk’ rock.” The name should have read “Elliott” and die concert was actually in Rangos Hall.
In Volume 95, Issue 9, on page B3, the photograph of the Elliott Smith concert was taken by Greg Nofi, 
Entertainment Editor, and on page B2, the photograph of The Frame was taken by Shaina McGrath, the 
Assistant Photo Editor.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat 
atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
SHADYSIDE AREA
Great efficiency apartments 
with new equipped kitchens, 
wall to wall carpet, laundry, 
and storage.
All utilities included. 
$415
Berger Real Estate 
412-288-1320
Man’s pickle poll 
predicts election
OGDENSBURG, N.Y. (AP) — The 
pickle pollster sure can pick ‘em.
Eugene F. “Pucker” ©’Grady’s “Pickle 
Poll” proved more precise than those 
of many national pollsters when he 
predicted Al Gore would top George 
W. Bush in the popular vote in the 
presidential election.
Every presidential year since 
1992, O’Grady has chopped up a 
five-inch gherkin into as many 
pieces as there are candidates. He 
takes a tiny sliver off for each inde­
pendent candidate, based on how 
he thinks they’ll do, then measures 
the balance and cuts it in half, giv­
ing the left side to Democrats, the 
right to Republicans. After letting it 
dry for three days, he counts the 
seeds and picks his winner.
Voters nationwide gave 
Democrat Al Gore and Republican 
George W. Bush about 48 percent of 
the popular vote each. Gore held a 
slight lead. When O’Grady split his 
pickle in August, the seeds spelled 
out a Gore popular vote victory:
49.7 percent to 46.6 percent for 
Bush. On Monday, the day before 
the now-historic and fiercely con­
tested election, only two national 
polls gave Gore the lead.
The idea for a pickle poll struck 
O’Grady in 1992, when he was sun­
ning himself on a beach along the St.
Lawrence River. “By God,” he toldWorld News
himself, “there must be something 
that the lonely pickle can be used for.”
That year he cut the pickle into 
three slices — H. Ross Perot was a 
strong third-party candidate. It pre­
dicted Bill Clinton would defeat 
George Bush 42.6 percent to 36.2 
percent and Perot- would get 21.2 
percent of the vote. Clinton ended 
up a 43-37 winner over Bush with 
Perot taking 19 percent. “I was right 
on the button,” he said. In 1996, he 
predicted a major Clinton win and 
was right again.
There are advantages to using the 
briny vegetable to select the leader of 
the free world, O’Grady says.
“In 1992,1 paid only 10 cents for 
the one pickle,” said the 76-year-old 
veteran. “And I only cut the pickle 
once. That’s it, final. No 3 or 4 per­
cent (margin of error).” O’Grady 
won’t get involved in the controversy 
brewing over the popular vote versus 
the Electoral College vote.
“The pickle doesn’t know any­
thing about the Electoral College,” 
he said “After all, it’s a pickle.”
Guards injured 
in prison riots
ESTANCIA, N.M. (AP) — Eight 
guards were injured, two seriously, 
during a prison uprising early 
Saturday in which 32 inmates took 
corrections officers hostage, 
authorities said.
The riot began around 12:30 am
and was quelled after about two hours 
when an emergency response team 
threw tear gas into the area, State 
Police Lieutenant Gary Smith said.
None of the inmates was injured 
in the fighting, Smith said. Fifteen 
of the 32 were directly involved in 
the assaults, and charges will be 
filed against them, said prison 
spokeswoman Abby Fink. She said 
all 32 would be placed in isolation.
The uprising at the privately run 
Torrance County Detention Facility 
began after inmates refused to go to 
their cells for the night, Smith said. 
Inmates beat and stabbed guards 
with parts of torn-up furniture from 
their cells, he said.
Two guards stabbed during the 
disturbance were originally listed 
in critical condition but underwent 
surgery and were taken off the crit­
ical ljst on Saturday, Fink said. Five 
other guards were in stable condi­
tion, and one guard was treated on 
the scene for minor injuries.
The prison, which is about 40 
miles east of Albuquerque, is oper­
ated by Nashville, Tennessee-based 
Corrections Corporation of 
America. It has been the site of sev­
eral disturbances in recent years. In 
August 1999, a fight during an 
inmate softball game left five pris­
oners and two guards injured. In 
1998, one inmate was fatally 
stabbed, and other disturbances 
injured seven inmates and five 
guards.
paign is acting irresponsibly.
Seven in 10 said the delay in 
knowing who is president and the 
uncertainty about the vote are a 
sign of strength in the nation’s 
political system, while 24 percent 
said it was a sign of weakness.
When people were asked if the 
electoral college currently used to 
select a president was fair, six in 10 
said it should be replaced by selec­
tion with the popular vote. The 
electoral college gives each state a 
certain number of votes in line with 
their congressional representation. 
Gore currently leads the popular 
vote nationally, so if Bush wins the 
election he will have done so with­
out winning the most votes.
The Time-CNN poll was conduct­
ed Friday with 1,154 adults and had 
a three percentage point error mar­
gin. The Newsweek poll was con­
ducted with 1,000 adults Thursday 
and Friday and has an error margin 
of 4 percentage points.
Israel’s Rabin 
dies of cancer
JERUSALEM (AP) — Leah Rabin, 
widow of the late Prime Minister 
Yitzhak Rabin and an outspoken 
campaigner for peace, died Sunday 
of cancer at the age of 72, hospital 
officials said.
Mrs. Rabin had been suffering 
from the disease at least since last 
spring. The gravity of her illness 
became clear when she was unable 
to appear at a rally last Saturday 
marking the fifth anniversary of her 
husband’s assassination by an ultra­
nationalist Jew. Her death was 
announced by Ettie Shilling, 
spokeswoman at Beilinson hospital 
in Tel Aviv. Rabin, a homemaker- 
turned-peace advocate, was feted 
abroad as a promoter of Israeli- 
Arab coexistence but shunned by 
some in Israel as a divisive figure.
She counted political leaders 
including President Clinton and 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat 
among her close friends, and after 
her, husband’s assassination she 
crisscrossed the world to carry the 
torch for his peace policies. She did 
not hold back criticism, even harshly 
denouncing some of current Prime 
Minister Ehud Barak’s peace moves.
“Yitzhak is spinning in his grave,” 
she said when Barak offered 
Palestinians control over parts of 
east Jerusalem. Barak, in a state­
ment released while he flew to 
Washington for talks with Clinton, 
called Mrs. Rabin “a courageous 
and devoted woman who worked 
together with her husband for two 
generations to bring Israel into a 
secure situation and, in recent 
years, to bring peace.”
She was born Leah Schlossberg 
on April 8, 1928 to well-to-do par-
&)TOYOTA
ents in Koenigsberg, a town in what 
was then Germany and later 
became part of Russia.
After World War II, as a high 
school student in Tel Aviv, she met 
Yitzhak Rabin, an officer in the 
Palmach, the elite force of the pre­
state militia. After high school, she 
entered a teacher’s training college 
but broke off her studies to join the 
Palmach. She and Rabin married 
during the 1948 Arab-Israel war. 
He commanded the forces ‘ that 
broke through the Arab encir­
clement of Jerusalem, lifting the 
siege. She worked in Tel Aviv on the 
Palmach’s newspaper and was 
given the task of visiting families of 
fallen soldiers to obtain pictures of 
their loved ones for publication 
with the casualty lists.
After the war, she earned a 
degree in teaching but worked for 
only a brief period in 1958. Yitzhak 
Rabin rose through the ranks of the 
army and served as its chief in 1967,- 
when Israel won a crushing victory 
over the combined armies of Egypt, 
Syria and Jordan.
After the war, he was appointed 
ambassador to the United States 
and in 1974 he was elected Prime 
Minister. Three years later, howev­
er, he was forced to resign when a 
journalist revealed that his wife had 
retained a dollar account in the 
United States, in violation of Israeli 
law at the time. The Prime Minister 
stood by his wife and withdrew 
from public life for some years.
Much later, Israelis of many polit­
ical backgrounds were uncomfort­
able when Mrs. Rabin warmly 
hugged Arafat at a public ceremo­
ny. Yitzhak Rabin shook Arafat’s 
hand at the 1993 signing of the 
Oslo agreement at the White 
House, but his reluctance and hesi-
tation were patently obvious.
In the spring of2000, she was diag­
nosed with cancer and flew to the 
United States for medical tests. She is 
survived by two children, Dalia 
Rabin-Pelossof, a lawyer and mem­
ber of parliament who went into poli­
tics in the wake of the assassination; 
and Yuval Rabin, who, after a career 
in the army, represented an Israeli 
software firm in the United States. 
After the assassination she founded a 
peace movement among young 
Israelis. She also leaves behind three 
grandchildren, including Noa, a 
freckled redhead whose moving, per­
sonal eulogy of her grandfather 
moved world leaders and dignitaries 
to tears at his funeral.
Mexico disco fire 
death toll rises
MEXICO CITY (AP) — The death 
toll from last month’s fire at a glitzy 
Mexico City nightclub rose to 21 
Saturday after a man hospitalized 
with severe bums died, the govern­
ment news agency Notimex reported.
Sparked by short circuits in the 
light booth, the blaze began before 
dawn October 20 and quickly 
spread through the cavernous 
Lobohombo nightclub — fed partly 
by flammable decorations that cre­
ated what investigators described 
as a “rain of fire.” Many of the dead 
were located near the club’s emer­
gency exit, which was locked with a 
chain, authorities have said.
In addition to having only one 
available exit, the club lacked 
smoke detectors, a sufficient num­
ber of fire extinguishers and a 
sprinkler system. The building had 
a faulty electrical system and its fire 
hydrant wasn’t connected to a 
water supply.
www.sunc
Breckenrid.qe CO] 
— 'hase.c.com
MOO.SUNCHASE
SPENDINGLIMITS
www.gettoyota.com
ECHO
Most everyone has them... no one likes them. (Toyota Echo can help.) Echo gets up to 38 miles per gallon* ..that limits your spending 
on gasoline. (Good start.) Echo has an amazing amount of interior room...seating for 5...so it will hold a lot of something, like up to 
4 paying passengers on Holiday trips home - positive cash flow to further limit your spending. (Another plus.) Now you try one.
(Hints: It's Toyota... very dependable. And its an Echo, starting around $13,500, well equipped.) Do the next time your spending limits 
come up for discussion, you'll be all set with a positive suggestion... A visit to your nearby Toyota Dealer.
*EPA estimate. 31/38 4 door, 4-speed automatic. Even better with 5-speed manual.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13, 2000
NASA, CMU progress in plans for branch campusSecurity system forms with aid of CMU’s CERT
CAMPUS, from page A1 
paign for funding. Companies are 
showing interest because our project 
will be good for Silicon Valley,” said 
Morris. One such company is Kliner 
and Perkins, a venture capitalist 
firm. Adams shared Morris’s senti­
ment. “Many companies are show­
ing interest. We will need money for 
planning, and eventually for con­
structing the buildings,” said 
Adams.
Although the Silicon Valley pro­
ject has begun with a focus on 
computer science and robotics, 
Adams has explained that the goal 
is to= broaden participation to 
other departments of the
University. He urges other col­
leges and departments with ideas 
for Silicon Valley and their disci­
pline to contact him or Morris. 
“This is only the beginning,” 
Adams said. “There’s lots we can 
potentially do.”
Although plans continue to move 
forward, Carnegie Mellon 
President Jared Cohon said that the 
Silicon Valley initiative’s future is 
not completely certain. While 
announcing the signing of the 
memorandum of understanding 
last winter, Cohon explained that. 
the millions of dollars needed to 
complete the project would have to 
come from Silicon Valley organiza­
tions and companies. “It looks 
quite promising, but we’re not
there yet,” said Cohon. “We have 
no definite agreement to do this. 
We have to get further in the plan­
ning process with NASA.”
The project will suffer if NASA 
does not receive approval of its 
Environmental Impact Study, or if 
the results of the upcoming 
Presidential election change the 
agency’s priorities due to decisions 
made by the new administration. 
Carnegie Mellon’s initiative is a tiny 
piece of NASA’s future plans for 
Moffett Field. A former military 
base that was given to the agency 
by the Navy in 1994, Moffett Field 
will also be home to an astrobiolo- 
gy building and the Computer 
Museum History Center.
Daniel Goldin, NASA 
Administrator, says, “tomorrow’s 
innovations will emerge from a col­
laboration between NASA, Silicon 
Valley industries, and world-class 
universities.” NASA officials hope to 
turn Moffett Field into a unique 
institution in the heart of Silicon 
Valley, where university researchers, 
government, and industry would 
work in a demanding campus envi­
ronment to further individual and 
joint interests in science and tech­
nology. “They will come from all of 
us working together and making the 
most of the special attributes each of 
us brings to the table. That is what 
we will do at NASA Ames,” said 
Goldin.Gore campaign continues drive to White House
(U-WIRE) NASHVILLE, Tenn. — 
The limousines have left, Vice 
President A1 Gore has gone home to 
his farm and Sen. Joseph 
Lieberman is back in Washington. 
Staffers have packed up and volun­
teers have driven off into the sun­
set.
But it isn’t over yet, not by a long 
shot. “We’re going to win!” read 
signs posted on computer terminals 
at the Gore headquarters here. 
Sure, the election is theoretically 
over and things are being taken 
down.
Workers yesterday were disman­
tling the stage, from which Gore' 
was supposed to claim victory or 
defeat, amid pouring rain as Gore 
staffers scrambled to move their 
makeshift press office at the 
Nashville downtown Sheraton.
“They did some strike this morn­
ing,” Han Henze, a worker with the 
local electric - company, said 
Wednesday. “The electronic stuff 
will have to come down tonight.”
But the Gore campaign has 
kicked into overdrive.
While volunteers and staffers 
alike here were in a state of disbe­
lief early Wednesday morning, 
Gore supporters are now as deter­
mined as ever in their quest for the 
White House, as the vote in Florida 
is recounted, debated and litigated.
“It was elated at first and then 
just very resigned,” David Roeske, a 
19-year-old intern with the cam­
paign from Pacific Union College in 
California, said of the-mood when 
the networks gave Texas Gov. 
George W. Bush the election late 
Tuesday night. “Toward the end, it 
was depressing with a faint glim­
mer of hope.”
That passive hope has been trans­
formed into an active full-court 
press.
The Gore campaign has sent 
scores of lawyers into Florida to 
begin the long process of officially 
determining who won Florida’s 
crucial 25 electoral votes.
“We’re excited that he won the 
popular vote,” Democratic National 
Committee spokesman Jamal 
Simmons said. “We want to make 
sure there are no mistakes.”
And while voters have taken to 
the streets in Palm Beach County, 
Fla., to protest a confusing ballot, 
Gore-Lieberman signs have 
remained in local shop windows.
The people of Nashville - the 
majority of them are Gore support­
ers - are refusing to give up hope.
“I’m just really excited,” said 
Jessica Pitt, a sophomore from 
Austin Peay State University in 
nearby Clarksville. “This is my first 
time voting.”
The people here are relatively 
upbeat.
“This has been an exciting 12 
hours,” Gore campaign chairman 
Bill Daley said Wednesday.
“We ran a great campaign,” Gore 
campaign manager Donna Brazille 
said. “We had a great staff and 
great volunteers and I am proud of 
them today.”
Many expressed excitement that 
they were on the brink of history.
And people who were once cry­
ing are now smiling.
Despite the chaos in Florida, eyes 
are still on this small capital in the 
middle of Tennessee. •
The television crews from the 
major networks remain and the 
hotel rooms remain booked.
“Business has been great,” a 
doorman at a local hotel said.
by Eve ChenStaffwriter
With help from the Computer 
Emergency Response Team
Coordination Center (CERT/CC) 
at CMU, Redleaf Group, Inc. has 
formed Redleaf Secure Systems 
(RSS), an internal Redleaf organi­
zation that aims to promote the 
understanding and the solutions to 
Internet security issues, according 
to Doug Goodall, the executive 
director of Redleaf Secure 
Systems.
“Security is a fundamental
requirement for business and com­
munications on the Internet, and 
therefore it is a fundamental issue 
for Redleaf Group, as we seek to 
grow Internet-related companies,” 
Goodall said. “RSS provides 
Redleaf with an organizational 
and programmatic focus that will 
allow us to be strategic in our plans 
to identify and grow new compa­
nies within this space.”
The Redleaf Group provides 
funding and management assis­
tance to start up high technology 
software firms.
First entertaining the idea of 
RSS in the spring of 2000, Redleaf
plans to serve, through RSS, new 
companies with cutting-edge tech­
nologies in issues of cyber security.
“RSS will result in a broad fami­
ly of companies that address the 
many complex, and differing, 
needs of enterprise-level security,” 
Goodall said.
Though CERT has no formal ties 
to either Redleaf or RSS, the com­
pany has benefited from the pro­
grams provided by CERT.
“CERT is a world leader in this 
field. By participating in formal 
CERT programs, such as the Cyber 
Security Summit which was held 
by CERT last summer, we have
been able to learn from the 
thought and knowledge leaders of 
the world,” Goodall said.
In addition to Redleaf’s 
announcement of the creation of 
RSS, Redleaf’s partner company 
RedCreek Communications, Inc. is 
also starting the RedCreek 
Development Center in Pittsburgh. 
Currendy recruiting local technol­
ogy experts, RedCreek plans to 
start operation immediately. The 
new technology center would pro­
vide resources for RedCreek’s over­
all products, which involve soft­
ware and hardware applications 
for Internet security.
University considers potential tuition increases
TUITION, from page A1 
professions and communities,” 
Kamlet’s presentation said.
While the statements were full of 
lofty goals and aspirations, Kamlet 
responded to such notions.
“We have a clear agenda. We have 
a clear identity and idea of what we 
want to do for undergraduate edu­
cation.”
Kamlet expanded upon the 
University’s vision to include bricks 
and mortar in the form of “world- 
class facilities.” He specifically 
referred to the University Center, 
stating there is a “tremendous 
opportunity of what this building 
can provide the students.” He also 
mentioned that additional struc­
tural developments on the campus 
require $800,000 a year in new 
maintenance costs.
He highlighted several other 
undergraduate developments 
requiring additional funding, 
including the Digital Library 
Project, multimedia courseware, 
extended community outreach 
programs and the new Microsoft 
product license, which provides 
free software for students. Kamlet 
classified the Microsoft deal as 
“not inexpensive.”
Bolton emphasized the con­
straints a smallish endowment puts 
on the University. He specifically
cited the young life span of the 
school as well as difficulty in 
fundraising. Bolton illustrated that a 
Carnegie Mellon education costs 
almost $34,200, but due to gifts, 
grants, the endowment, and other 
sources of income such as the 
Technology Transfer office, nearly 
$9,400 is allocated toward the cost 
of tuition, thus making the figure 
$24,792. The University^ largest 
benefit from technology developed 
at the college was Lycos, Inc., an 
Internet search engine. The school 
sold its interest in the company sev­
eral years ago to fund the University 
Center and Purnell Center, but no 
longer receives royalties from the 
corporation. However, CMU has not 
received fiduciary benefits from the 
spin-offs of Fore Systems and many 
other companies.
Vice President of Enrollment Bill 
Elliot described the tuition rates of 
CMU in comparison to two tiers of 
schools. Elliot said that the school’s 
increases in tuition rates are com­
parable to those of other compara­
ble schools. The augmentation of 
the tuition for CMU followed 
slightly higher than the Consumer 
Price Index (CPI).
Several crowd members were 
concerned about changes in finan­
cial aid. Elliot did not reveal the 
statistics for financial aid of other
schools, but assured the group that 
the figures were comparable to 
tuition rate increases amongst the 
tier I and II schools.
Elliot mentioned that the 
University received the largest pool 
of applicants in its history, follow­
ing the 11.4 percent increase for 
2000-01 freshmen. He expects the 
trend of larger applications to con­
tinue. Due to space and resource 
limitations, the school prefers not 
to .increase the enrollment. 
However, all individual colleges at 
CMU do cap the number of accept­
ed students. Individual depart­
ments, with the exception of elec­
trical and computer engineering 
and computer science, do not 
restrict their student enrollment.
Several students expressed con­
cern that the school is not investing 
in the quality of student life. 
Mentioning the disillusionment that 
students encounter with such 
departments as Parking 
Enforcement and Housing Services, 
several attendees questioned the 
effect the problems of student life 
may have on future giving.
The skyrocketing cost of tuition is 
not new to students and parents. 
Professor of Economics Steven 
Klepper related that increases in 
tuition have been comparable to the 
earnings premium of college versus
high school graduates. A study used 
in his Introduction to 
Microeconomics class, Klepper 
states that tuition prices between 
1965 and 1980 were extremely 
steady. During that same time peri­
od, while favoring college gradu­
ates, the earnings premium between 
college and high school graduates 
did not experience vast changes.
However, college graduates have 
incurred a rising income rate com­
pared to high school graduates. 
While the reasons for such are 
debatable, the investment in an edu­
cation has become more worth­
while. Klepper’s study concludes 
that ±e demand for college gradu­
ates since 1980 has risen in excess of 
the supply, thereby allowing schools 
to charge more in terms of tuition in 
a competitive environment.
Klepper mentioned that private 
industry has found ways to lower 
costs. He specifically pointed to the 
new methods the technology sec­
tor have utilized to counter the ris­
ing costs of professionals and 
employees. However, few develop­
ments have revolutionized the 
world of higher education. While 
technology has the potential to 
lower instruction costs, few 
schools have introduced methods 
to counter the rising expenditures 
of increasing faculty.
Crime and Incident Report
Chemical Spill, 11/8/2000 — CMU
Campus Police responded to Doherty Hall 
for a report of a strange odor in front of the 
building by the cut. After a check of the 
area, the police determined that the odor 
originated from a Doherty Hall Chemical 
Engineering lab. After speaking with the lab 
manager, they determined that 4 liters of ’ 
Octanol had leaked from a distillation col­
umn 50 minutes prior. A spill kit was used to 
clean the chemical spill.
Theft, 11/6/2000 — Between 8:30 and 
2 pm, a laptop computer was stolen from a 
table in an apartment in Cathedral 
Mansions. The victim and his roommate had 
hosted a bagger the night before in their 
room. After leaving for class at 8:30 that 
morning, they left the bagger in their room, 
assuming that he would leave for his 9:45 
am interview in Warner Hall. The victim 
returned to his room to find a note from his 
guest, which also stated that upon the 
guest’s return, the door was found to be wide 
open. The victim was surprised because he 
did not know his guest was planning on 
returning. The victim called Admissions to 
inform them of the events, which transpired. 
Items that may have been touched by the 
actor were given to Campus Police for pro­
cessing. Admissions will contact the bagger 
to make further inquiries.
Liquor Laws, 11/4/2000 — CMU
Campus Police responded to Morewood 
Gardens E-Tower 5th floor, for a report of 
several female students waking the hallway 
with bottles of alcoholic beverages. The only 
person who was on the floor upon arrival of 
•the police was the person who filed the com­
plaint. The RA stated that a resident was 
observed with a bottle of an alcoholic bever­
age, and appeared to be drunk due to her 
slurred speech. The RA also observed six or 
seven other female students each with their 
own bottle of alcohol. The RA believed that 
the females may in fact have been mixing the 
alcohol with juice. A check of a room turned 
up several disposable cups with varying 
quantities of a juice-like substance, and no 
alcohol could be detected by scent. Due to 
the fact that the RA said the liquor was clear, 
it could have been vodka, which means that 
the cups with juice may not have emitted an 
odor. The RA was especially concerned over 
the use of alcohol by one of her residents.
Open Container, 11/5/2000 — Campus 
Police observed an unknown white male exit a 
fraternity with a can of unknown beer.
Campus Police approached the male in ques­
tion in order to ascertain the male’s age and 
physical well-being. One of the officers told 
the actor to stop, and the male refused, and 
threw his open container towards the dump­
sters. At this point Campus Police were able to 
stop the actor and identify him as well as his 
age. The actor was issued an internal citation 
at 12:48 am, and all responding units cleared 
at the same time. Campus Police were unable 
to ascertain the exact kind of beer the actor 
was drinking as there were numerous different 
kinds of beer cans in the area where the actor 
tossed the can.
- Campus Sergeant Ricci reviews all reports 
prior to release.
- Only three people on The Tartan staff see the 
reports: the Editor-in-Chief, the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
-All personal names of complainants, victims, 
suspects, and fraternities are omitted from the 
printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
-Not every incident that occurs appears in the 
report.
Compiled by 
Aseem Gupta
Soup Mixes ¦ Canned IFruits «Sc Vegetables • Pasta * Rice ¦ Cereal • Cake Mixes - Soap * Toothpaste
Carnegie Mellon
THEAA RNUnive
Food Drive
November 6 -17
with a special
ONE DAY-ONE CAN
collection on Volumeu9 14 
at the University Center
r-J Tonight hundreds of people in our 
town will go hungry. Staff Council 
invites you to make a difference and...
Spread the warmth
For more information visit us at 
www.andrew.cmu.edu/~sc77/FoodDrive/
ROCK
-N-
ROLLERS
Money motivated individuals with a 
Rock-N-Roll attitude needed to 
promote products and events on 
campus. The nation’s leader in 
college marketing is seeking an 
assertive, energetic, entrepreneurial 
student to promote products and 
events on campus.
* Be you own damn boss!
* Set your own damn hours!
* Make what you’re worth!
American Passage Media, Inc. 
Campus Rep Program 
Seattle, WA
800.487.2434 Ext.4651campusrcp@americanpassage.com

---------------------------------------------------

dolly
wardrobe
vw.com/films
\;jfL ¦ /// {\ \
l<>y"///.,•/ i i ’vNvX ¦; * vii
\ x M
Independent filmmakers have to be innovative. (We can relate to that.) So we're working with AtomFilms to offer lots of short films, free. Drivers wanted.
in
mmmmm

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13, 2000
Elections bring controversy to campus
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
In response to Greek Week, students organized events last week in celebration of Geek Week. Events includ­
ed video game and Lego contests, as shown above. More details on these events can be found in the Arts & 
Living section.
ELECTIONS, from page A1 
with several million people would 
be more likely to. However, the 
linear models given below assume 
such an error is equally likely, 
regardless of the size of the coun­
ty.”
Daniel Boyarski, professor of 
design, and David Kaufer, head of 
the English Department, who work 
together to study information 
design, also made statements 
about the appearance and inter­
pretations of the Florida ballot in 
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Both 
seemed to agree that the Palm 
Beach ballot could have easily mis­
lead A1 Gore voters to mistakenly 
register votes for Pat Buchanan 
instead. Boyarski said that a lot of 
the confusion probably came from 
the amount of time people took to 
concentrate on it. He said that in a 
ballot booth most people probably 
don’t spend much time looking at 
it.
In the Post-Gazette article, 
Kaufer said that the ballots were 
designed poorly and that this was 
one of the events that will be 
remembered forever in design 
history. He said the incident will 
become a textbook example of 
how important good design is.
The Palm Beach ballot placed 
the candidates in two columns 
with a vertical row of punchouts in 
the middle. Bush was the first 
name in the left column and voters 
were to punch the first hole. 
Buchanan was the first name on 
the right column and voters were
to punch the second hole. Gore 
was the second name in the left 
column and was the third hole to 
be punched. Kaufer said that the 
eye is not oriented to see that you 
have candidates on both sides of 
the ballot.
Boyarski said that he feels that 
many people see design as some­
thing you do to make things look 
nice, but that in this case it was 
critical to the ballot being useful 
and correct.
Nick Fitzkee, a senior physics 
major, said in a post to 
cmu.misc.market that he felt, how­
ever, that much of the fault for mis­
takes should lie on the voters them­
selves. Fitzkee said that most of the 
people that made mistakes filling 
out the Florida ballot probably just 
didn’t look close enough.
“I don’t want to insult those 
people in any way — I’ve messed 
up on exams by not reading the 
problem correctly. However, when 
I make that mistake, it is my fault, 
and I don’t expect to get credit for 
that problem. Granted, a national 
election is a lot more significant 
than an exam, but the fundamen­
tal issue is the same, and goes back 
to a lesson taught in the third 
grade: read the directions,” said 
Fitzkee.
Several students also had some­
thing to say about the role of the 
Electoral College in our voting sys­
tem. “The Electoral College was 
put in place so that the ‘elders’ 
could decide. That is not democra­
cy in 20th century terms,” said
Marc Zinck, a junior computer sci­
ence major. “In addition, the elec­
toral college is not based on how 
many people VOTE from on state, 
it’s based on how many people 
EXIST in each state. The reason 
that there are discrepancies in the;*; 
popular vote and the electoral col-> . 
lege is that not the same percent-. ; 
age of people in each state vote/* 
The system is flawed.” [emphasis ' 
his]
Others, however, feel that it is a 
fair system. “As far as the general 
issue of electors, I believe that in 
most cases this is fair. Sometimes if 
doesn’t work out the way the popu- * 
lar vote goes, but eliminating the 
electoral college would virtually ' 
guarantee that the only people who . * 
would hear from any candidate * 
during a race would be those where * 
the population-density is the high- * 
est,” said Fitzkee on a recent bboard* * 
post.
Nathaniel Manista, a senior5/ 
physics major and AB Lectures/ 
chair, said that he feels that the/ 
electoral system needs to be elim- - 
mated. He said he would like to/ 
see a system that wasn’t winner o 
takes all. He wanted to have a- 
system that took into account theV' ¦ 
percentage of people who voted/’ 
for who and had a proportional/; 
amount of representation. He/ ' 
said he has been following the,' ' 
election very closely. “The past; ; 
week has been incredible for me/; 
as a citizen ... I didn’t sleep on/; 
Tuesday night. I was just riveted,” - • 
said Manista.
& The University Shoppe
present the
CMUU coMntiue sMUtp
Thursday-Saturday, November 16-18
Trade in your old collegiate sweatshirt (from any college) in a clean and dry 
condition and receive $5.00 off your next regular Champion purchase. 
Trade in your old collegiate t-shirt (from any college) in a clean and dry 
condition and receive $3 off your next regular Champion purchase. 
All garments collected for women will be donated to Myriam's Shelter. All gar 
ments collected for men will be donated toThe East End Cooperative Ministry.
The University Shoppe is located in the University Center across from Warner Hall. 
Store Hours are Monday through Thursday 8-6, Friday 8-5 and Saturday 10-4.
The Concert Series at Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
Where the Arts Support Human Needs
Jared
8 pm, Friday 
17 November 2000
acobsen
Organist of the Chautauqua Institution
playing “an adventure in sound . . . ranging from the intensely dramatic 
Psalm 22 of Siller to Kreisler s smile-provoking Caprice Viennois"
Tickets 18
.DYS1DE PRESBYtERJAN Church
AII ticket sales donated to 
Bethlehem Haven and East End Cooperative Ministries
Seniors $5 
Students tree 
Call 682-4300 
www.shadysidepres.org
SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE
Carnegi Ml n oUevsrgletyc
PALAZZO IN THE HEART
au evMf bglnMffnlrg rMech
THE PROGRAM OFFERS 
STUDENTS THE OPPORTUNITY 
TO LIVE INTIMATELY AMONG
mpayglrgSf Vnfegy.Mgrgfh
ITS PEOPLE 
AND CULTURE.
Sarah Lawrence College in Florence combines individually 
designed programs of study with total immersion in the academic 
and social life of Florence.
The broad range of options includes enrollment in the University 
of Florence. Students can take classes with some of Florence’s 
finest artists and scholars. Hallmarks of the program arc private 
tutorials and small seminars with distinguished Italian faculty.
The program is open to students who are new to the language and 
who speak Italian. Homestays are available in the heart of Florence.
For more information:
Office of International Programs, Sarah Lawrence College 
1 Mead Way, Bronxville, NY 10708-5999 
(800) 873-4752 / E-mail: slcawav@mail.slc.edu
Paris, London and Oxford.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
13 November 2000 THE TARTAN Page A6
Media generates frustration in poor coverage of elections
There were prognosticators, scoreboards, 
and on-field reports. One network even used 
a device resembling John Madden’s telestra- 
tor. Television coverage of the Presidential 
election was downright deplorable as CNN, 
ABC, NBC, CBS, and FOX made early calls on 
the election from A1 Gore's “victory” in 
Florida to George Bush's “victory” of the 
Presidency. The television media’s projec­
tions may have affected the outcome of the 
election, and made Gore concede to Bush 
prematurely. For future elections, these net­
works need to take their responsibility of 
reporting facts more seriously and they need 
to be more conservative when making specu­
lations about election outcomes.
Networks project winners based on a tried- 
and-true system that they have been using for 
years now. Based on exit polls and analyses of 
returns in certain precincts each network 
tries to predict winners in each state. In past, 
years the system has worked — more or less. 
However, this year the networks were twice 
forced to retract their predictions in Florida.
Networks use the same basic source to 
make their predictions, the Voter News 
Service, which does the surveying for them. 
Because they rely on the same data, it was no 
surprise that the networks would jump the 
gun on the election results. An apparent error 
from the service in the Florida results led the 
networks to make their erroneous predic­
tions. Networks should not have to so heavily 
rely on such a service. They should, in fact, 
validate their results through additional sur­
veying if necessary. In this case, analysts at 
the Fox News Network said they had misgiv­
ings about the Florida results but went ahead 
and made the decisions anyway. Other net­
work’s analysts said there was pressure to call 
a state because their television competitors 
had already done so. This is neither accurate 
nor responsible journalism, and the networks 
need to realize that their methods and 
process for making predictions are flawed.
The early projection of Gore winning
Florida may have had a serious impact on the 
election results. Viewers in the West who still 
had time to vote because of the time differ­
ence may have figured that it was not worth 
voting because Gore had a clear and undis­
puted lead on Bush. In addition, the televi­
sion media called Bush the winner of the 
election prematurely, which caused Gore to 
call his opponent and concede over the 
phone. Gore was minutes away from publicly 
conceding, due to media predictions, but 
recanted after being pulled back by his cam­
paign.
In addition to the absent-minded forecasts, 
the media coverage was sensationalized 
beyond respectable recognition. 
Notwithstanding America’s clamor for imme­
diate gratification, the media owes its sub­
scribers accurate and reputable reporting.
The predicted state results are often made 
with a paucity of vote returns available. 
Media outlets are more likely to base the out­
come of a state on pre-election polls than 
actual vote counts.
The early predictions also caused embar­
rassment for foreign countries. Hoping to 
capitalize on the latest report that George W. | 
Bush was the Florida victor and President­
elect, Germany and other countries issued 
congratulations to Bush. These predictions 
have a far-reaching affect that can create 
diplomatic uneasiness.
The television media’s coverage of the elec­
tion is more reminiscent of New Year’s Eve or 
the Super Bowl than the election of the 
“leader of the free world.” From the ticker 
counting down the next poll closing on CNN 
to Peter Jennings’ location in Times Square, 
the networks illustrated a lack of refinement 
and dignity. In the future, the media needs to 
show more reserve in calling a winner. News 
outlets should use a diverse group of sources 
before making such a determination. The 
process for making such important predic­
tions needs to be refined and improved for 
future elections.
University Center must serve campus, not corporate visitors
Students protesting Intel’s proposed move 
into the University Center have emphasized 
the fact that many feel it is inappropriate for 
private corporations to use the building to 
conduct private business. A recent meeting 
in the UC by the H.J. Heinz Company has 
once again raised concern that the building’s 
mission statement is being violated. This 
past Wednesday, November 8, Heinz held a 
meeting in McConomy Auditorium and the 
Connan Room to train its national sales staff.
Although UC administration calls the 
event "an outreach to our community," this 
event is in direct conflict with the UC 
Mission Statement, which states that the UC 
may be used "by members of the campus 
community or external organizations whose 
primary purpose is education." If the exter­
nal organization has no established relation­
ship to Carnegie Mellon, it must "provide an 
educational or community service opportu­
nity." Heinz’s presence satisfied none of 
these conditions.
UC administration, however, justifies their 
decision by saying that the event was for the 
education of Heinz sales staff. This argu­
ment stretches the policy too much — nearly 
every corporation conducts training semi­
nars; however, we should not be prepared to 
open our doors to them simply for that rea­
son.
The meeting was closed to CMU students. 
In fact, even entering the auditorium led to
THE TARTAN
Cambie Mêlions Student Newspaper Since ¡go6 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
ASEEM GUPTA, Online Editor 
CHRIS MESSINA, Online Design Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
ERIN SZETO, Special Projects Manager 
PRESTON TREICHEL, Asst. Sports Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
SRIRAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Asst. Science & Tech Ed. 
VINCENT CHAN, Advertising Manager 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Assistant Photo Editor 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Elaine Boland, Matt Brun,Behnam Farahpour, 
Bradley Feam, Cassandra Knight, Christopher 
May, Lorelei Laird, Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, 
Erica Yamada
immediate removal from the room. While 
some events in the UC are private by necessi­
ty, this already suspicious event was made 
even more suspicious by its secrecy.
Furthermore, holding the meeting at CMU 
was unnecessary when there are adequate 
facilities in other locations, such as 
Pittsburgh hotels. Heinz officials, however, 
said that only Carnegie Mellon offers facili­
ties of this size. McConomy holds 500 peo­
ple, while the ballroom in the Doubletree 
Inn downtown has a capacity of 960 people. 
Obviously, there must have been another 
factor for choosing CMU facilities for the 
meeting, possibly significantly lower prices. 
UC administrators and event organizers 
declined to comment on the amount Heinz 
paid for reservation of the spaces.
In times when space in the University 
Center is scarce and organizations struggle 
to get rooms booked, it is unfortunate that 
McConomy and the Connan Room were mis­
used in this manner. If this type of undesired 
corporate presence continues on campus, 
student organizations and academic depart­
ments will suffer.
The University administration needs to 
use more discretion when renting out rooms 
to outside organizations due the school year. 
Such questionable uses of community space 
are unacceptable, the good of students, fac­
ulty, and staff, cannot be allowed in the 
future.
Letters to the Editor
Go Green
Editor:
Well, this 3-billion-dollar election is 
over, and the people have spoken: Bush 
(or Gore) will be the next leader of the 
free world. Bush (or Gore) will increase 
military spending and our deficit with it. 
Bush (or Gore) will continue our role as 
the imprisoner of more people than any 
other nation in the world, including 
China. Bush (and Gore) will be the same 
on hundreds of issues. Of course there 
would be differences between their two 
presidencies, but it is clear that the differ­
ences were not meaningful for most 
Americans. The results of this election 
look, fittingly, like the flipping of a coin 
one hundred million times.
‘ Most pundits agree; neither candidate 
will even be able to fulfill the few unique 
promises that they made. With a divided 
House and Senate, a win based on a tech­
nicality, and a lack of support from most
Americans, it will be hard for the next 
president to get anything done. The party 
that loses this election will likely win big 
in the next two elections.
What really was rotten about this elec­
tion was the organized smear campaign 
on Ralph Nader. Democrats and the 
media have called Nader all sorts of bad 
names, like spoiler, egoist, and a shame to 
his legacy. The truth is Gore probably 
cost Nader millions of votes at the last 
minute — and with those votes, official 
ballot status. About half of Nader’s voters 
switched to either Gore or Bush on elec­
tion day, dropping his predicted 5-6 per­
cent take to 2.6 percent. In addition, six 
times as many Democrats voted for Bush 
as voted for Nader according to exit 
polls at CNN.
Here is what we can say: When Gore 
and Bush started on personal attacks, 
Nader did not for a moment leave behind 
the issues. While Gore espoused cam­
paign finance reform late in the game, 
he spent $99,848, Bush about
Justin Sulssa/Art Editor
$151,564,555, 40 percent “soft” money 
for both. Nader spent only $5,235,871, 
all of it from individual contributions — 
about $280,000 or 4% in federal monies 
(FEC as of Nov 8). These are things that 
should be commended, not denigrated.
Now that Nader has brought increased 
attention to the Green Party, it is more 
important than ever to work at a grass­
roots, local level. I hope that progressives 
will now work together for what Ralph 
Nader and the Association of State Green 
Parties stand for, the true progressive 
agenda. We have a much bigger role in 
democracy than as members of a party. 
We have nothing to lose now, and every­
thing to gain. To join the CMU Greens 
and the South-West Pennsylvania Greens, 
email me at quinten@andrew.cmu.edu. 
Find out more at http://www.greenpar- 
ties.org/ and http://www.votenader.org/.
Quinten Steenhuis 
First-year student 
H&SSnicaUty, and a lack of support from most he spent $99,848, Bush about H&SS
World falls into pieces, Americans ignore it
____gone magically. I wonder if the Russians ests.” He defines these interests as
* B Pool filQ POmQ urnir T^i^nnl «A
Christopher May
Eventually, the nation will pick the 
next President of the United States, and 
the candidates’ their positions on issues 
of paramount importance to the world 
are still unknown to me. The world is 
bursting at the seams and yet both Gore 
and Bush are stumped almost exclusive­
ly on Social Security and education. 
Now, it may be that since the Cold War 
ended, one cannot run on a foreign pol­
icy platform, but I find it a little obnox­
ious that the only part of the world that 
the candidates find worthy of mention 
is the Middle East. I guess they feel a lit­
tle more demagoguery to Jewish and 
Muslim voters never hurt anyone.
Here is a short list of the problems that 
will face our next leader. Bill Clinton has 
nicely left the decision of whether to 
build a missile defense system to our next 
President. I consider myself well 
informed, having watched all three 
debates and read major newspapers 
daily, and yet I have not heard either can­
didate speak a word about this system. I 
would say that it deserves attention, 
given that our NATO allies hate the idea 
and so do the Russians. I suppose that 
focus groups of independent swing voters 
don’t care about this issue and so it is
gone magically. I wonder if the Russians 
feel the same way.
The Middle East is headed toward the 
distinct possibility of another war, and 
the United States won’t choose sides. 
This was probably a good idea for the 
peace process, but neither candidate 
seems to support that process very 
much. They are falling all over them­
selves to support Israel. A biased inter­
mediary cannot make peace, and so I 
sincerely hope if Bush or Gore is elect­
ed, a truly neutral nation will take up 
the peace process so that it can end the 
conflict. Additionally, we currently have 
an embargo on Iraq which nobody has 
thought to change, except that Bush 
criticized Gore for US dependence on 
“Saddam Hussein’s oil.”
On the up side, after half a century, US 
relations with North Korea may be warm­
ing up. This would be a wonderful thing if 
it gets off the ground, since North Korea 
is a populous nation which is accused of 
harboring terrorists, and has a knack for 
lobbing missiles over Japan. One would 
think a presidential candidate would 
have more to say about North Korea and 
less to say about “fuzzy math,” or “the top 
one percent.”
As for the candidates’ explanations of 
foreign policy, Gore says he will define 
objectives if he sends troops to a nation. I 
appreciate his kowtowing to Vietnam- 
phobia. Bush says he will only send 
troops if it is in our “vital national inter-
ests.” He defines these interests as 
defending allies, for example, Israel, and 
securing cheap oil for homeowners in 
the Northeast. I certainly wish that Mr. 
Bush would refrain from using interven­
tion in the world to appeal to Jewish vot­
ers. I know it is a tried and true tactic, 
but I believe, maybe I’m crazy, that 
American intervention in the world 
ought not to be determined by any fac­
tions. Also, I think that the world’s only 
superpower might have just slightly 
more broad national interests than just 
defending its allies and securing cheap 
oil. Call me a crazy liberal.
In short, I think that foreign policy 
concerns deserve far more time than 
they received in this pandering, chest- 
beating election. One would think that 
in an increasingly global economy and 
with an increasingly global culture, the 
rest of the world would play a part in 
American elections. However, it seems 
that in giving away the farm, both can­
didates have neglected to adequately 
enumerate their positions on the issues 
that will likely define their terms. 
Especially since the current Congress 
will most probably spend at least a third 
of the surplus as an early Christmas pre­
sent to the President-Elect.
Christopher May is a sophomore in the 
Science and Humanities Scholars 
Program. He welcomes all responsible 
replies to his article.
National interests first, human rights second
Jf-JlL
Sharon Su
Walking into any high 
school in the United States, 
we see the busy lives of sleep- 
deprived students and preoc­
cupied teachers. In addition to 
the daily classes that fill every 
student’s schedule, clubs and 
organizations also beg for 
time after class. As each orga­
nization has its own agendas, 
students work together in 
groups to reach these goals. 
Take this school system and 
look at it as a microcosm of 
the universal political system. 
All of a sudden, we realize 
that this “friendly” and 
respectful interaction that is 
so natural in the school com-. 
munity is something that is
missing in the world political 
system. As repeatedly asserted 
by the US, universal human 
rights ought to take prece­
dence over conflicting nation­
al interest goals. However, to 
preserve governmental legiti­
macy and to fulfill the obliga­
tion of the government to its 
citizens, we need to reconsid­
er our priorities and establish 
a more reasonable, economi­
cal, and practical approach 
to our foreign policies, one 
that is primarily guided by 
national interest.
Hans Morgarthau, a 
renowned political analyst, 
stated, “If nations do act to 
promote their national inter­
ests, they will produce more 
overall good than if they pur­
sue moral goals.” This is 
where the US falls short. Our 
preoccupation with human 
rights constantly places
national interests on the 
backburner. But according to 
Morgarthau, this is exactly 
what must not happen. 
Granted, morality is (and 
should be) an essential part 
of our action, but problems 
often arise when every coun­
try differs in their interpreta­
tion of a moral action in a 
specific situation. When
not even signed by the United 
States. Within that docu­
ment, there is a vague outline 
of what countries “should” 
and “should not” do, but 
nowhere does it clearly indi­
cate the contingency for a 
united, universal form of 
human rights. However, rely­
ing only on Western stan­
dards, the US alone cannot
National security and interest is the main purpose for having a government in our country.
examining the core of this 
issue, we have to ask “What 
are universal human rights?” 
The United Nations’s 
Declaration of Human 
Rights, which most people 
consider to be universal, was
make this decision because it 
causes instability in regions 
of the world. If we are going 
to lead the world, we must 
not dictate, but rather show 
through example.
See RIGHTS, page A7

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13. 2000
US pursuit of moral ideals often leads to national problems
RIGHTS, from page A6 
The most important thing is that we differ­
entiate between the boundaries of our coun­
tries when we attempt to maintain stability. 
This is because our world is divided on land 
control, and any violation of that boundary 
could be considered an act of war. Simply 
put, the reciprocal respect for sovereignty 
prevents us from going into war. The journal 
Ethics and International Affairs writes, 
“Peace, security, and toleration of national 
differences is best assured if every state 
avoids the pursuit of abstract moral ideals 
and pursues its own national interest
instead.” Any practical government should 
see that the effectiveness of its actions based 
in morality would be almost nonexistent. For 
example, trying to install democracy in Cuba 
only led to the rise of a more feared regime: 
communism. This led to the anti-US resent­
ment we see in Cuba today. Further stipula­
tion by the people’s will would argue that 
national security should be placed first, as 
would I.
National security and interest is the main 
purpose for having a government in our 
country. To help others in their problems to 
an extent which would hurt our national
interest and even put our country in danger 
of starting a war is not considered appropri­
ate and “moral” at all.
After all the arguments against universal 
human rights have been made however, it is 
still necessary that we realize that we need 
humanitarian rights. By this I mean that the 
US shouldn’t be isolated. We need to help 
when there is a clear violation of human 
rights. When people are going hungry in 
Ethiopia, when people are being slaughtered 
in Serbia, we have a moral responsibility to 
act. However, we should realize that history 
is always in the making. Every country is
entitled to make mistakes without the US 
intervening with another set of laws. The US 
itself was once arguably immoral. The 
Japanese internment camps during WWII 
are a recent reminder that even the most 
democratic, powerful, and successful leader 
of the world had its low points. You see, like 
the organizations in school, die governments 
of the world must retain respect for each 
other in order to preserve humanitarian 
rights globally.
Sharon Su is a first-year business major. She 
welcomes all responsible replies to her article.Court decision to separate twins rightly prevails over parental wishes
iSTiMrfO
Christian Restifo
This past Tuesday, at the start of the infa­
mous “Too Close To Call” election, doctors 
finished surgery on two little girls who were 
conjoined twins. From the very first incision, 
doctors were certain of one thing: at least 
one of them would die from the operation. 
The second may or may not survive.
“Jodie” and “Mary,” whose names were 
changed to protect their family’s privacy, 
were born in England. Thèir parents live in 
Malta but traveled to Britain so the twins 
could receive better medical treatment.
Jodie and Mary were joined at the 
abdomen and shared both a lower spine and 
a bladder. Although they otherwise had sep­
arate organs, Mary was significantly, under­
developed. Her heart was enlarged, and her 
lungs barely worked. Doctors agreed that 
Jodie’s heart and lungs provided blood circu­
lation and oxygen for both twins.
Mary’s head was enlarged due to swelling 
at the back of her brain, and she displayed 
signs of stunted development. While Jodie 
would open her eyes and suck instinctively, 
Mary only started to open her right eye 
before the operation.
Doctors originally gave the twins only 
three to six months to live. Mary was liter­
ally sucking the life out of Jodie, and their 
doctors knew that Jodie’s organs could not 
sustain both of them. Surgically separating 
them would provide Jodie with a chance at 
life; she would have some disabilities, but 
she had a chance at life. However, Mary 
would almost certainly die immediately
after the operation.
Their Roman Catholic parents objected to 
the operation. God, they argued, had a plan, 
and they should not interfere with that plan. 
Permitting the operation would be tanta­
mount to permitting doctors to kill Mary in 
order to save Jodie.
The doctors at their hospital petitioned 
the British courts to permit 
the operation, over the 
objection of the parents.
The Archbishop of England 
weighed in, as well as 
the Roman Catholic Church.
(Since the children were 
born in England, they fell 
under British jurisdiction.)
The Supreme Court of 
Judicature Court of Appeal, 
consisting of three judges, 
handed down a decision in 
September that let the opera­
tion proceed last Monday. The 
decision, over 130 pages in 
length, dealt with religion, 
parental rights, the definition 
of murder, human rights, 
medicine, and the state’s 
obligation to protect children.
The parents could have 
appealed the decision, but 
they decided against it. And in doing so, I 
believe, they made the right decision.
As gruesome as it may sound, this case 
boils down to which child had the better 
opportunity at life. The justices correctly 
noted that both Mary and Jodie had an 
innate right to life, but Jodie’s overall condi­
tion outweighed any rights Mary may have 
had. If left together, both would surely die. If 
separated, Jodie had at least a chance.
Some people have raised objections to the 
case, arguing that the parents’ wishes should 
prevail or that other measures should have 
been taken to save the girls without separat­
ing them. Although parental rights are fairly 
broad, in this particular case, the state had 
every right to step in and override the par­
ents. Had the state not done so, it would
Reagan Heller/Art Staff
have almost certainly condemned both girls.
Neither girl had the mental capacity to will­
ingly refuse medical treatment based on reli­
gious beliefs.
Anything other than surgical separation 
would only have prolonged the inevitable.
The possibilities that I’Ve seen proposed were 
merely highly experimental or desperate 
attempts to keep both girls alive and con­
nected. Nothing would have changed; Mary
surgeons that He created.
But, seriously...
By: Sean Mintus
In light of the recent political 
debacle, I had considered going off 
on the election erratum and subse­
quent whining of our two potential 
commander-in-chiefs who act like 
twelve-year-olds' with skinned 
knees. But when it comes down to 
it, I’m really not well enough 
informed to make any sort of valid 
point, and there’s no way I’m doing 
any research. So instead, I want to 
take a step back from all of the 
political angst that has been 
swirling around this week and 
share with you, all six of my loyal 
readers, a recent experience that 
just plain confused me. A few 
weeks ago, I had the opportunity to. 
visit Penn State University. While 
there, I got to spend time with 
some old friends (drink), reminisce 
(drink), and escape the academic 
and intellectual rigors of Carnegie 
Mellon (drink heavily).
But, seriously, over the course of 
the weekend, I came across a few 
things that, as a student of 
Carnegie Mellon University, I was 
simply unprepared to deal with. 
I’m not sure how many of you have
had the fortuity to leave 
Pittsburgh in order to spend any 
significant amount of time at 
another college. But if perchance 
one day you do, please read on 
and gain some insight into the 
type of sordid activity you might 
very well encounter. Perhaps you 
will be better equipped to deal 
with it* than I was.
As I pulled my car into the uni­
versity, I saw people walking 
around (people: entities that do 
not possess motherboards with 
whom it is customary to frater­
nize). It seems as though Penn 
State students actually venture 
outside in daylight hours for 
some purpose other than travel to 
and from class. As a matter of 
fact, upon coming into contact 
with natural sunlight, these stu­
dents did not shriek in terror and 
break for the nearest academic 
building. Oddly enough, they 
seemed to actually enjoy being 
someplace other than 'their dorm 
rooms in front of their computers.
Upon spending more and more 
time with these strange Penn State 
folk, I witnessed several instances 
in which they not only refrained 
from verbalizing disdain for their 
university, but seemed to almost
possess genuine enthusiasm, 
respect, and love for it. This threw 
me for a loop, because as you can 
plainly see, I assumed that univer­
sities existed solely to grant 
degrees, foster mental instability, 
and provide humor columnists 
with something to bitch about.
Later on in the evening, I ven­
tured past a cluster adjacent to 
one of the commons and saw that 
there was no line (commons: a 
designated area in which students 
often gather and socialize without 
the use of IM or ICQ). In fact, the 
room was practically empty. I 
heard no frantic typing, no Jolt 
cans popping open, no rousing 
games of Quake. In fact, the only 
person in the cluster was a univer­
sity employee, and surprisingly, 
she did not look at all happy to be 
there. Evidently, the professors at 
Penn State do not derive great joy 
from utilizing unnecessarily large 
and redundant amounts of work to 
pound their students into the 
ground, leaving the computer 
clusters grossly underpopulated 
on the weekends.
The next day, I managed to snag 
a ticket to the weekend’s install­
ment of gridiron festivities. I was 
initially put off by having to pay
for a ticket to a college football 
game, as I am not at all accus­
tomed to this, given that I don’t 
even think CMU even has to dis­
tribute tickets to its games. 
Apparently, students at Penn State 
actually attend and enjoy the foot­
ball games,'making tickets some­
what hard to come by. The stadi­
um, which, surprisingly, did not 
consist of a chunk of Astroturf 
sandwiched in between two dorms 
and a parking garage, was filled to 
the brim with students, faculty 
and alumni, all jumping and smil­
ing and cheering their team on to 
victory (smiling: something done 
so as to convey pleasure or happi­
ness; opposite of frowning). In all 
fairness, I understand that a com­
parison here is inequitable, since 
Penn State has a football team and 
we don’t... do we?
Here’s something interesting. As 
I wandered around campus, I dis­
covered that all around me were 
free publications, discounts on 
food, fan paraphernalia, etc. as 
though, and this truly frightens me, 
the school was trying to cater to the 
needs of its students.
Furthermore, as is ostensible 
custom at schools such as Penn 
State, there were a good number
would still have been utterly dependent 
upon Jodie while sapping her of any chance 
at a normal life.
Some of you may judge me and say that I 
cannot understand what the parents were 
going through. You would be correct. I envy 
neither them nor the judges and surgeons 
who had to deal with this case. If you read 
the summary of the decision, you 
can literally feel Lord Justice 
Ward struggling with the legal, 
ethical, and moral issues.
However, I do understand that 
the doctors made a decision 
that I believe to be the best of 
an incredibly bad situation. 
Damning Mary to certain death 
only exacerbated the situation 
since doctors subscribe to the 
Hippocratic oath that requires 
them to first do no harm. Better, 
however, to give one person a 
chance at life than let two die.
At the time this writing, Jodie 
has been recovering quite well 
for her situation and is breathing 
on her own. Mary died minutes 
after separation. Given advances 
in medical technology, this will 
certainly not be the last time we 
see this situation. The next time 
it occurs, people will almost certainly wade 
through the same religious, ethical, and 
moral quagmire. I only hope that those who 
oppose it on religious grounds come to 
understand that sometimes God’s “natural 
course” involves the skills and care of the
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since igo6 
SENIOR STAFF
I Emily Landes
STAFFWRITERS
Sara Amodio, Neil Babra, Clinton 
I Brownley, • Cliff Chien, Krissy Choi, 
I Michael Cook, Cam Crews, Rob Cullen, 
I Frank J. Fleming, Ryan Friedman, 
j Debra Halpern, LaRita Hamilton, Ryan 
I Hamilton, Cynthia Kos, Erin Lucas,
| Sean Mintus, Damian Olesnycky, Peter 
j Patterson, Jodi Poniewaz, Srinivas 
! Pullela, Jennifer Resick, Christian 
j Restifo, Paul Richelmi, Danny A.
| Silitonga, Surya Singh, Lynn Tao, Cory 
Tong
ART
Matthew Blum, Lindsay Clark, Jamie 
Divine, Adam Grossi, Reagan Heller, 
Gabriel Sabourin, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, James Kenney, Neal 
Martin, Jason Slater
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Erica Barnes, Jeff Cullers, 
Anthony DAuria, Anjanelle Delancey, 
Emily Gensheimer, Matthew Lanken, 
Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, Matthew 
Trentacoste
Christian M. Restifo is a first year Flex-Time 
MBA student at GSIA and a father.Can’t do it: no comparison between Carnegie Mellon and Penn State
of drunkards about. However, 
upon encountering a campus 
police officer, no student was 
given a citation, a four-hour verbal 
reprimand, a write-up in the 
Crime and Incident report, or a 
blow to the head with a Maglite. 
Instead, the officer calmly and 
earnestly suggested that the most 
sober of the group escort everyone 
home quickly and safely. Yes, it 
seemed as though the university 
personnel honestly cared about 
the well-being of its students and 
was willing to overlook minor 
offenses in order to preserve over­
all school harmony and good will 
(harmony: when everyone doesn’t 
despise everyone else).
While I did find my adventure in 
Penn State intriguing, I must say 
that I am glad to be back here at 
good old CMU, where I can pay 
three times as much, get treated 
ten times as poorly, and be 
exposed to roughly l/100th of the 
social life. Ah, home sweet misan­
thropic home.
Sean Mintus is a sophomore pro­
fessional and creative writing major. 
And just for the record, he’s the one 
who talked Palm Beach into using 
the butterfly ballot.
DARKROOM
Eric Barker
PRODUCTION 
j Eve Chen, John Davin, Serena Lam,
J Douglas Yung
COPY
I Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala,
| Lorelei Laird, Meredith Powers, Emma 
I Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF 
I David Anderson, Sharad Bajaj, Andy 
! Baker, Avinash Baliga, Kevin Burns,
! Yang Cai, Thomas Capasso, Brad 
; Cohen, Dave del Rosario, Dave 
| DiFilippo, Aseem Garg, Melissa Horne,
| John Hursh, Lirona Katzir, Christopher 
I Kim, Anish Kumar, Elizabeth Levin, 
Ann Lewis, To Han Lu, Charles Martin, 
Andrew McKeon, Julia Myers, Rob 
Pinkerton, Jennifer Schaupp, Marissa 
I Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, 
j Sharon Su, Vivek Sri.dharan, Yinglan 
| Tan, Tifanie Tiberio, Sean Waters, Daniel 
| Wood
j -------------------------------------------------------
: The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a v/eekly 
| newspaper published by students during the 
[ fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem­
bers of the University community. It is print­
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin­
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual­
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for verifi­
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit­
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica­
tion. Copyright © 2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.Ap
Bet you thought it would be over by now! To get students' opinions on the 
Presidential pandemonium, we asked the following question:
What do you think about the election?
A PERSON’S OPINION
Compiled by Sara Stille 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Christian Kriegeskotte
Junior
Music Composition 
“I’m moving to Canada.”
Neha Chandra
Sophomore 
Computer Science
“Right now everything is disorga­
nized and no one can seem to make any 
decisions, so we just have to wait.”
John Whiteman
Junior
Industrial Design 
“Ralph Nader should have won.’’
Christine Free
First-year student 
Voice
“I wish Gore would get it. Just 
decide, though.”
Joel Heires
Junior
Art
“It’s not my fault. 1 didn’t vote.’1
.0

---------------------------------------------------

* \ i / <r
\ \ Lt/.
Is Reality 
Not 
Enough 
For You?
Building Virtual Worlds 2001
Instructor: Randy Pausch 
Open to Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors & Grad Students
ENTERTAINMENT TECHNOLOGY 05-831 ART 60-502 DESIGN 51-348 DRAMA 54-364 ARCHITECTURE 48-366 HCI 05-331 /05-831
Spaces are extremely limited. More information at:
http://www.alice.org/building.html
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street's 145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
for Spring 2001
ONLINE REGIS
Corrected Start
Course schedule booklet times
OLR Start Times
ie Mellon(OLR)
Times!
are incorrect!
If the last two digits 
of your student ID 
are between:
Your start 
time is:
5559 .............................................................6 a.m.
5054.......................................................6:30 a.m.
4549 .............................................................7 a.m.
3539.......................................................7:30 a.m.4044 .............................................................8 a.m.8084...........................7579...........................6569 ...........................7074.......................................................... 10 a.m.
6064 ......................................................10:30 a.m.
0509 .......................................................11:30 a.m.0004 ...............................................................noon8589 ......................................................12:30 p.m.
9599..............................................................1 p.m.
9094........................................................1:30 p.m.2529........................................................2:30 p.m.2024...........................3034........................................................3:30 p.m.1014...........................
1519........................................................4:30 p.m.k-.......-
Based on spring 2001 class standing:
Seniors & Grad Students Only .. Monday, Nov. 13
Juniors...................................Tuesday, Nov. 14
Sophomores......................Wednesday, Nov. 15
Freshmen..............................Thursday, Nov. 16
Registration hours are from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
Beginning November 17, OLR hours will be 
extended until 2 a.m. to process add/drops 
according to college deadlines.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13, 2000
Loss to California U. tough to swallowThe Hockey Report
by Erin Lucas
Last weekend I had to miss one of 
Carnegie Mellon’s ice hockey games due 
to the grand opening of Lord and Taylor 
downtown. I am told however, that the 
Tartans, thoroughly spanked St. Vincent, 
10-4. Goals belonged to Mike Nollen, 
Constantine Davides (two goals), Jiri 
Schindler, Rob Ready (two goals), Jamie 
Bretz (two goals), Eliot Minichiello and Ed 
Brower.
However, this past weekend the Tartans 
became the spankees themselves, falling 
6-2 to California University of 
Pennsylvania. Things looked bad for 
Carnegie Mellon from the beginning. 
California dominated the scoring and 
CMU failed to convert on a pair of two- 
man advantages. There appeared to be 
signs of life in the second period, howev­
er, when the Tartans managed to cut the 
lead in half with goals from Cliff 
Brangwynne and Constantine Davides. 
Unfortunately, these goals proved to be 
not enough.
I personally was delighted to be travel­
ing to California University. Once — all 
right, twice — last year, my friends and I 
went to a super-ghetto BYOB male strip 
joint in Greensburg. Since we were the 
only women there under the age of 50 
with all our teeth, the strippers came over 
to talk to us after the show. One surpris­
ingly healthy young man told me he was a 
student of Cal U but told me to call it 
“Harvard-on-the-Mon” from now on 
(“Mon” meaning the Monongahela River 
for all you non-natives). I found that high­
ly amusing. Regardless, my trip to Cal U 
reminded me of those wild and deviant 
days of my youth (last semester).
Returning to hockey, California man­
aged two more goals to seal their victory. 
Final score, Harvard-on-the-Mon 6, 
Carnegie Mellon 2.
I have been covering Carnegie Mellon 
ice hockey for three years now and am at a 
loss for how CMU always manages to lose 
to Cal U. It is quite obvious that CMU is the 
superior team.
In fact, the Tartans usually beat teams 
of a much higher caliber. Perhaps this time
it is because the game started at 10:45 pm. 
I want to know what sick individual sched­
ules a hockey game at that time of night. 
A possible explanation is that is about the 
time that most CMU students go through 
their No-Doze crashes. However, I simply 
don’t have an answer and therefore wel­
come all conspiracy theories you care to 
send me. .
National Hockey League
Anyone who tells you that revenge is 
counter-productive and immature is an 
idiot. Last week the Penguins sought 
vengeance and won all three of their 
games. Currently they are sitting in the 
number one spot of the highly competitive
I have been covering Carnegie Mellon ice hockey for three years now, and am at a loss for how CMU always manages to lose to California University.
Atlantic Division.
Philadelphia was the first to go down. 
Since this is the team that sent the 
Penguins prematurely out of the Stanley 
Cup playoffs last year in the second round, 
it was great to see. Next up were the New 
Jersey Devils, who handed the Pens their 
worst home loss in franchise history (9-0) 
only a week ago. Beating them allowed 
the Pens to save some face.
According to figures in The Hockey 
News, attendance levels for the New 
Jersey Devils have been lagging behind 
that of other NHL hockey clubs in recent 
years. I always heard this rumor but didn’t 
believe it to be true because of the huge 
population base this team covers. Then I 
realized that none of my friends from New 
Jersey are Devils fans. The Devils are such 
a good team; I can’t imagine why their 
attendance is not one of the highest in the 
NHL.
I have developed two theories to 
account for this problem. First of all, per­
haps the people of NJ simply don’t like ice 
hockey. This would mean that everyone 
living in NJ is brain damaged — that 
might be a bit of a stretch. Therefore, I 
think the alternative is a better explana­
tion. In my experience most residents of 
New Jersey like to pretend that they are 
New Yorkers, even though I frequent New 
York City more than any of them do. 
Perhaps they think that if they support a 
New Jersey team, they will give them­
selves away. Fortunately, their attendance 
numbers do seem to be increasing this 
season. Hopefully New Jersey residents 
are beginning to see the error of their 
ways.
Now it is time to return my discussion to 
the only NHL team that matters. The news 
of the week for the Penguins was not their 
victories, but the perceived controversy 
behind the bench. Apparently Jaromir Jagr 
has been usurping new head coach Ivan 
Hlinka by calling players-only meetings 
and changing team strategies. In addition, 
he had a highly public argument with 
Hlinka, and basically has been pouting on 
the bench all week. Some critics say that 
Jagr is frustrated with his own personal 
scoring drought and wants to change the 
offensive strategy to be conducive to his 
scoring. Please keep in mind that a scoring 
drought for Jagr is a career high for most 
members of the NHL.
My thought is, why are people even 
bothering to call this a controversy? Such 
behavior is the cornerstone of profession­
al hockey in Pittsburgh. It is very obvious 
that this team has and always will cater to 
the whims and desires of its superstars. 
First Mario Lemieux (God bless his soul), 
and now Jaromir Jagr.
Anytime a coach comes to town with the 
insane notion of actually coaching this 
team, he is sent out on his butt like Scotty 
Bowman and Kevin Constantine. Hlinka 
needs to accept that right or wrong, 
Pittsburgh NHL coaches are ornamental.
Erin Lucas has a burnt big toe due to an 
incident involving her roommate and a curl­
ing iron. She is in too much pain to contin­
ue, sniff.
Tartans rout Gannon, 48-7
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
Andrew Garrod runs the ball in the Tartans’ victory on Saturday. Garrod had 91 yards rushing.
FOOTBALL, from page A10 
yard touchdown reception. CMU contin­
ued to roll all over the Knights.
On the first drive of the fourth quarter, 
junior fullback Jeffery Stolper had a nice 
22-yard run that set up a two-yard touch­
down dive by Garrod. Garrod finished the 
game with 91 yards on 10 carries, and two 
touchdowns.
Even the defense started to get involved 
with the scoring. Senior inside linebacker 
Lou DePaul intercepted a pass from 
Palkovich and sprinted 37 yards for a 
touchdown to put CMU up 40-7. The 
defense’s contributions did not end there, 
either. Junior defensive back Jason Morris 
would intercept a pass before the game was 
over as well.
The final score of the game came on an 
Urbanczyk one-yard run. The drive was set 
up by first-year Christopher Kay’s punt 
return fumble recovery on the Gannon 37- 
yard line.
After that score, the depth of the Tartan 
bench was shown. Many new and young 
faces got their first shot at varsity time,
with a comfortable 48-7 Tartan lead.
Also important on that drive was a 18- 
yard pass to sophomore tight end Scott 
Jubeck. Along with sophomore TE Brian 
Vest, the tight ends played an important 
role while they have been overlooked for a 
great deal of the season.
Everyone on the team seemed to con­
tribute to this classic Tartan effort. It all 
came together for the Tartans, and that 
resulted in a rather impressive victory. The 
rest of the season showed bits and pieces of 
that level of play, but never for an entire 
game.
“We had a great team effort,” said 
Lackner. “Overall, the coaches were disap­
pointed with the season. Winning sixty 
percent of our games is not acceptable. We 
will build on this as we head into the next 
season.”
The Tartans will head into next season 
with this last win, unless they get a bid into 
the EC AC bowl game. If they do not get a 
bid into a playoff game, the Tartan seniors 
will at least know that they played their 
last game with lots of heart and effort.
Wanna START
something?
Meet the PEOPLE of
www.eatonjobs.com
Accounting 
Engineering 
Human Resources 
Information Technology 
General Management 
Strategic Planning 
Supply Chain 
Technical Sales
Eaton Corporation. Who?
We're a high-tech, $8.4 billion global manufacturer 
of highly engineered products. Get out!
We're looking for exceptional graduates to 
join our ranks. Heyl That's me!
Visit us online. You're online? Sweet!
Or join us on campus. We're interviewing select candidates. 
That's me...again! Candidates attracted 
by a fast-paced business environment. I love it!
Are you challenged by a competitive 
work atmosphere, where teamwork is essential and the 
best idea wins? I'm there! Then register with career 
services for an on-campus interview. First in line, man.
We look forward to discussing your professional 
vision as a potential Eaton associate. I can't waitl 
Go ahead. Start something with the best company you 
know nothing about. Try and stop me.
For more information or to apply online, 
go to www.eatonjobs.com, 
then check with your Campus Career Services Office.
The BEST company you know nothing about.
classified
Travel
Earn free travel! Become an intern 
for Council Travel - flexible hours!
Fill out application at 118 Meyran 
Ave., Oakland 683-6602
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Best 
Prices Guaranteed! Cancún,
Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida. Sell 
Trips, Earn cash & Go Free! Now 
hiring Campus Reps. 1-800-234- 
7007 endlesssummertours.com
Survive Spring Break 2001! All the 
hottest destinations/hotels! Campus 
sales representatives and student 
organizations wanted! Visit inter- 
campus.com or all 1-800-327-6013 
The Tribe has spoken!
Spring Break 2001. Student 
Express offers Mexico, Jamaica, 
Florida and Texas with lower prices 
and the most reliable air. Call today 
for a brochure and ask how you can 
go for FREE!! 1-800-SURFS-UP or 
www.studentexpress.com
Opportunities
Earn $1,000 - S2,000 this quarter
with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. No sales 
required. Fundraising dates are fill­
ing quickly, so call today! Contact 
Campusfundraiser.com at 888-923- 
3238, or visit www.campusfundrais- 
ers.com.
Pittsburgh Deli Company 728
Copeland Shadyside. Now Hiring 
kitchen/counter positions. Reliable 
25 hr minimum. Call 412-682- 
3354. Ask for Scott, David, or 
Geoffrey.
The Student Conservation 
Association is looking for responsi­
ble outdoors leaders. Teach out­
door skills, environmental educa­
tion and lead service projects. One 
weekend/month. $150/weekend. 
Must be at least 21. WFR a plus. 
681-7301
Classified Rates1-20 words........$10.00/wk21-50 words.......$12.00/wk51-100 words.....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:The Tartan, Box 17 Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
• Classifieds must be paid in cash or check before first run date• On-campus departments and organizations may pay by journal transfer• Due by 5 pm the Thursday before publication
THE TARTAN
268-2111
SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE IN
The Sarah Lawrence 
College in Paris program 
combines individually 
crafted programs of study 
with total immersion in 
the acadcmic, artistic and 
social life of Paris.
The broad range of 
options includes enroll­
ment in the great French 
institutions of learning,
with access to a full range of courses usually open 
only to French students, and small seminars. The
hallmark of the program is private ----------------------
tutorials with French faculty, A pioneering program
focusing on student interests.
The program is open to 
students with two years or more the rhythm of Paris with the 
of college French. Housing is 
available in the heart of Paris.
¦ Université de Paris: 
Sorbonne, Jussieu et 
Nanterre
» Institut d’Études 
Politiques 
» Ecole du Louvre
* Ecole Normale de 
Musique
• F.A.C.T. (Théâtre) 
Ecole Supérieure d’Études Chorégraphiques 
Studio Vermès (Photographie)
• Ateliers de peintres et sculpteurs
dedicated to blending
pace of academic studies
For more information:
Office of International Programs 
Sarah Lawrence College in Paris 
1 Mead Way, Bronxvillc, NY 10708-5999 
(800) 873-4752/E-mail: slra\vay<8mail .slc.cdu
Sarah Lawrcncc College also sponsors programs ¡n Florence, London and Oxford.
Carnegie Mellon’s
Dry Cleaner & Personal Laundry Service
Drop off your laundry 
in the morning - pick 
up your laundry that 
afternoon!
We will wash, dry, 
fold & fluff your 
clothes for 80?! per 
pound!
Located at Margaret Morrison Plaza • Call x8-8878

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
13 November 2000THE TARTANPage Alo
Tartans serve up 48-7 rampage over Gannon in season closer
by Preston TreichelAssistant Sports Editor
There was a lot on the line for the 
, Tartans last Saturday on Senior Day 
, at Gesling Stadium. Before the 
game against Division II school 
, Gannon University, the Tartans 
were sitting with a somewhat 
mediocre 5-4 record. A loss would 
1 have meant that their 25 year con-
• secutive winning season streak 
would have ended. A determined
• CMU team came out with plenty of 
.. fire and left everything they had on 
, the field.
, In addition to the fact that senior
drawing first blood. On the first 
drive of the game, CMU rattled out 
a 67-yard drive in eight plays. It was 
capped off by sophomore fullback 
Adam Urbanczyk’s two-yard 
plunge. The Tartans wanted to 
begin with a bang, and there’s no 
doubt that they were able to accom­
plish that.
“It was real important that we got 
off to a good start,” said Lackner. 
“Gannon helped us out in getting us 
real fired up.” The Knights had 
been harassing some of the Tartan 
players before the game, which got 
the Tartans even more eager to 
play.
Even after an impressive punt
“The emails from the alumni really fired our players up. The players didn’t want to be the ones to end the streak. ”
— Football head coach Rich Lackner
wide receiver Mike McLaughlin and 
linebacker Mike Danielson were sit­
ting out with knee injuries once 
again, the CMU team had several 
other players bruised including 
Drew Garrod (strained high ham- 
'string), Ricardo Clarke (sprained 
ACL), and Eric Zimpfer (sore 
throwing shoulder). A tough week 
of practice full of support from 
' alumni pushing them to keep the 
1 streak alive drove the Tartans to 
have their best game of the year.
“The emails from the alumni
- really fired our players up,” com­
mented head coach Rich Lackner.
- “The players didn’t want to be the 
ones to end the streak.”
The Tartans wasted no time in
return by senior defensive back 
Matt Noretto and an interception by 
sophomore outside linebacker 
Michael Jura; CMU was not able to 
find the end zone again until the 
second quarter. Senior fullback 
Josh Mugford scored on a two yard 
run.
CMU still had more in its reper­
toire before the half ended. Junior 
quarterback Eric Zimpfer connect­
ed with sophomore running back 
Drew Garrod on a short three-yard 
rollout pass. Zimpfer finished the 
game 9 of 11 passing with 104 
yards and two touchdowns. 
Zimpfer’s decision making and 
patience in the game helped lead 
the Tartans to victory.
Junior quarterback Eric Zimpfer scrambles for yards last Saturday in the Tartans’ 48-7 thrashing of Gannon University, 
led the offense on a scoring rampage in the first meeting with the D-ll opponent.
The defense continued their 
excellent play in the first half, 
holding the Knights scoreless the 
entire first half. Michael Jura con­
tinued his solid play when he 
recovered the fumble that led to 
the last score of the half. Turnovers 
continued to hurt Gannon.
“We caused turnovers and had
none ourselves — that was big,” 
said Lackner. The Knights ended 
the game with five total turnovers, 
a statistic that proved to be one of 
their downfalls. However, the 
Knights tried to turn things around 
after the first half.
Gannon stunned CMU when 
they marched down and scored on
their first drive of the second half, 
mostly attributed to the quickness 
of Knights quarterback Jason 
Cunningham. He led the Knights’ 
rushing attack with 73 yards on 10 
attempts. However, Cunningham’s 
play-making abilities were limited 
as Gannon coaches played quarter­
back Justin Palkovich, who fin­
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
Despite an injured shoulder, Zimpfer
ished 7-13 for 54 yards.
With the score 21-7, CMU decid­
ed to really pour on the heat. After 
a botched play by Gannon’s punter, 
CMU was able to acquire good field 
position. Soon thereafter, Zimpfer 
found junior receiver Matt 
Saneholtz in the end zone for a 12- 
See FOOTBALL, page A9
New college basketball season set to start sports shorts
College Hoops Stars Leave Early
(AP) — College basketball begins 
, a new season loaded with kids who 
don’t plan to stay and minus a coach 
,who didn’t know when to leave. 
Neither development comforts 
Mike Krzyzewski very much.
., “There’s a crisis right now in col­
lege basketball and basketball in 
general,” the Duke coach said 
Thursday.
Krzyzewski is not a guy who 
, -scares easily. For two decades, he’s 
. been the best in his business, sand­
wiched between the high school 
game, where the very best kids get 
1 paid under the table, and the NBA,
¦ where those same kids get overpaid 
\ above the table. For most of that
time, it’s been a comfortable, clean 
place.
Barely 18 months ago, Elton 
Brand became the first player from 
Duke to defect to the NBA. Not long 
after Corey Maggette followed 
Brand, an NCAA investigation fol­
lowed Maggette. By then, defec­
tions and inquiries were already a 
fact of life at every other top-drawer 
basketball program in the country. 
But to Krzyzewski, the college game 
hasn’t seemed the same since.
It’s not that he’s any less success­
ful, or that the talent that makes it 
possible has dried up. Just the 
opposite. The problem is diat more 
and more, the most talented players 
only stay for a season or two or they
4MNEWS
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk+
Intramural Board President: Mike 
Edwards, x2-2993 
Intramural Vice President: Ryan 
Jackson
Women’s President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Monday, November 13 — Three- 
person volleyball begins. 
Wednesday, November 15 — IM 
Board Meeting at 12:30 pm in 
Gym Conference Room 
Thursday, November 16 — IM 
Soccer finals
Sunday, November 19 — IM 
Bowling Championships 
Monday, November 20 — Water 
Polo playoffs begin
Sports in Season
Bowling — The IM Bowling sea­
son will rap up with the semifinals 
and finals on Sunday, November 
19, at the PAA lanes.
Water Polo — IM Water Polo is 
being played at the UC Pool. The 
regular season will end 
Wednesday. Playoffs will start on 
Monday, November 20. Brackets 
will be posted Thursday.
Racquetball — Matches finish up 
Tuesday. Playoffs will start on 
Wednesday, November 15.
Brackets will be available at noon 
on the 15th.
Soccer — The playoffs started yes­
terday. The finals will be held on 
Thursday, November 16.
Foosball — The playoffs sched­
ules are out. Please play games as 
scheduled and report scores to the 
IM Office.
Chess — Playoffs are out. Please 
play matches and report scores to 
the IM Office.
Table Tennis, Call Pool, Spades, 
and Darts — Schedules are out. 
Please play all games as scheduled 
and report scores to the IM Office.
Three-person Volleyball — The 
schedules are out. This year the 
format has changed to a double 
elimination tournament. Brackets 
are available at the IM Office. 
Games begin tonight.
Sports Completed
Volleyball — The finals of the six- 
person volleyball were held this 
past Thursday. The champs were 
as follows: in Majors TX Goofy B's, 
in Minors ASA Slam Monkeys, 
and in Women FTH.
All Sports Total through Tennis
PiKA-1025 
Beta 800-TX 750 
TSA-725 
Kappa Sigma - 650
Womens
Tartan Hoopers -1200 
F.T.H. -1117 
Pioneers - 367
All email rosters must he submitted 
24 hours prior to the deadline.
bypass college altogether. It means 
less teaching, more recruiting and 
always wondering who will be the 
next teenager to call a news confer­
ence to say he’s chosen a seven-fig­
ure paycheck over third-semester 
math.
It means fewer and fewer Shane 
Battiers — players who stay all 
four years and leave school as well- 
rounded as they are NBA-ready.
“Battier, he’s maybe the college 
player of the year, but what’s really 
nice to see is a youngster who 
grabs at everything, not just for the 
basketball,” Krzyzewski said. 
“That’s what the college experi­
ence is about, about setting you up 
for every aspect of life. And that’s 
what Shane has done.”
Yet so few talented players do, 
that the more cynical among 
Krzyzewski’s coaching brethren 
always turn this question on its 
head: “How will college basketball 
survive without these kids?”
What they ask instead is: “How 
will the NBA survive with them?” 
Krzyzewski, though, is just 
square enough that he can’t help 
but be concerned about that, too. 
The NBA isn’t his problem right 
now; college basketball is. 
Krzyzewski has to get his second- 
ranked team ready to play, and he 
is one of a handful of coaches on a
16-member NCAA committee with 
the chance to try one more time to 
make over the college game.
But he watches the pro game on 
TV, especially when it involves one 
of his former players like Brand, 
and he sees the same problem 
infecting both games.
“When you keep bringing in new 
faces, there’s no continuity. The 
game is still about making each 
other better,” Krzyzewski said. 
“And the more you’re with a cer­
tain group of people, especially if 
they’re good, you end up making 
each other better.
“That’s why constant change 
can’t be good.”
But at the moment, it’s also a fact 
of a life. And so, when someone 
asked Krzyzewski whether he 
might one day succumb to all those 
siren calls from the NBA, he had to 
think it over. To him, the teaching 
opportunities are almost as 
intriguing as the paycheck.
“I’ve seen our game change so 
much that you have to think about 
other options, just because you see 
all these young kids go into the 
NBA,” he said. “The NBA is so 
young right now that if we can’t do 
some changes to bring the college 
game up to date, you’d have to
rethink it.
“But right now, I’d rather work at 
trying to make our game better,” 
he said.
Krzyzewski wasn’t sure whether 
the departure of Bobby Knight 
made the game better or worse, 
only that it made him sad. He 
played for Knight at West Point, 
then learned the principles of the 
motion offense and man-to-man 
defenses he still uses today.
“I think it’s crazy that someone 
who’s been in the same place for 
three decades — not that guys 
don’t leave or finish their career — 
would leave and not have it recog­
nized in a very big way, a good 
way. And that’s what I feel badly 
about,” he said.
Sounds like a man with a lot on 
his mind.
Jim Litke is the national sports 
columnist for The Associated Press. 
Write to him atjlitkeap.org
Knight, CBS Fail To Reach Deal
NEW YORK (AP) — Bob Knight 
is not headed to a TV booth any 
time soon.
Knight, fired in September after 
nearly 30 years as Indiana’s coach, 
had talks with CBS Sports about a 
job as a college basketball com­
mentator, but the sides did not 
come to an agreement. CBS did 
not make a contract offer.
“It never got to that point. It 
wasn’t going to work out,” Knight’s 
agent, Sandy Montag, said 
Thursday.
CBS Sports president Sean 
McManus contacted Montag after 
Knight was fired by Indiana. 
McManus and Knight met.
CBS has an opening for a college 
basketball analyst to work along­
side veteran play-by-play 
announcer Dick Enberg. Enberg’s 
previous partner, A1 McGuire, 
stepped down shortly before the 
NCAA tournament last season 
because of illness.
The network, which owns the 
TV rights to the NCAA tournament 
through 2013, broadcasts its first 
game of the new season Dec. 2, 
with Kentucky at North Carolina.
Montag said Knight is focusing 
his attention on speaking engage­
ments and writing a book.
“Broadcasting has never been a 
huge priority for Bob. Maybe 
down the road,” Montag said.
Knight, who coached Indiana to 
three national titles, certainly 
would attract both viewers and 
scrutiny if he were to go into 
broadcasting.
Tartan soccer 
falls to Messiah
Encountering Messiah College 
in the regional round of the 
NCAA Division III Men’s Soccer 
Championship, the Tartans were 
overwhelmed and couldn’t con­
tinue the success that had accom­
panied them through fourteen 
wins during the regular season.
The Messiah Falcons (18-2-1) 
defeated the Tartans (14-3) in a 
lopsided 4-0 contest. The first 
three of Messiah’s goals came in 
the first 30 minutes of the con­
test. Messiah junior Matt Crist 
helped the Falcons to the lead 
quickly, scoring only 5:32 into 
the game. The Falcons scored 
again at 18:43, and then at 31:33.
The Tartans were outshot 19-2, 
and CMU was forced to make 
seven saves, while Messiah only 
was threatened once.
The second half of play was 
more contested, and the Tartans 
.allowed another goal 58:46 into 
the game. The final score of 4-0 
knocked the Tartans out of the 
bracket.
Cross country 
NCAA regionals
In the NCAA Division III Cross 
Country Mideast regional compe­
tition, Carnegie Mellon men 
placed in sixth place, and the 
women placed in seventh.
The men, who finished with a 
point total of 257, were beaten by 
only Haverford, Allegheny, 
Elizabethtown, Widener, and 
Gettysburg. On the other side of 
things, 28 other teams that com­
peted finished behind the 
Tartans.
Individual performers for the 
Tartans in the men’s 8,000-meter 
run, with finish and time, were:
27. Mike Rossi, 27:25.20
51. Mike Duke, 28:08.70
60. Patrick Fisher, 28:17.40
61. Alex Weiss, 28:19.50
69. Adam Wierman, 28:30.10
94. Matt Cantrel, 28:58.70
95. John Hursh, 29:00.50
In addition, Mike Rossi was 
named to the All-East regional 
team, and first-year runners Mike 
Duke, Patrick Fisher, and Alex 
Weiss were named to the Eastern 
Regional freshman team.
The Tartan women finished
with a total of 246 points, behind 
Moravian, Dickinson, Haverford, 
Allegheny, Gettysburg, and 
Swarthmore.
The women finished ahead of 
28 other schools, with a total of 
35 competing.
CMU’s top female finisher was 
junior Brooke Cutler, who fin­
ished in 15th with a time of 
19:30.20 in the 5,000-meter run.
The total performances for 
Carnegie Mellon athletes:
15. Brooke Cutler, 19:30.20
53. Katie Aerni, 20:33.80
56. Katie Janes, 20:35.70
57. Kelly Chin, 20:36.50
70. Liz Currid, 20:46.70
89. Giti Farudi, 21:06.00
126. Amy Graveline, 21:35.10
Volleyball wins 
South Region
On Saturday, Carnegie Mellon 
hosted the finals of the ECAC 
South Region tournament, which 
started on Friday.
The tournament, in which six 
teams participated, was some­
what of a consolation for the 
Tartans, who finished in a disap­
pointing fifth place at the UAA 
tournament last weekend.
Because there were six teams, 
the number one and two seeds, 
Carnegie Mellon and Johns 
Hopkinds, received byes into the 
semifinal round.
Number four Grove City faced 
fifth-seed Western Maryland in 
the first round, and won 3-2. 
They faced the Tartans in the 
next round, which the Tartans 
won easily, 3-0, to advance to the 
finals.
In the other end of the bracket, 
number three University of 
Scranton defeated number six 
Kean University, 3-2, then lost to 
Johns Hopkins 3-1.
The Tartans faced off against 
Johns Hopkins in the final, and 
handled the match with ease, 
winning 15-5, 15-8, and 15-11 
in three straight sets.
The Tartans finished the sea­
son with a 24-11 record, clinch­
ing their second straigh ECAC 
title. Sophomore outside hitter 
Lauren Schmidt, who has been a 
focal point of the team, was 
named the MVP of the champi­
onships.
Compiled by 
Christopher Chung

---------------------------------------------------

Arts Living
13 November 20 00THE TARTANSection B
Geek Week features toys, computers, video games
Some of the Geek Week events involved cutting-edge technology, but Friday's Toys! Toys! Toys! event went a step further, as Voltron made an appearance.
by Andy FrancisCo-Arts and Living Editor
Two weeks ago, the Greek commu­
nity was successful in staging a series 
of events called Greek Week, despite 
the fact that fraternity and sorority 
members are a small minority of the 
campus population. Recognizing that 
far more of CMU’s students belong to 
the geek population, the Activities 
Board recendy scheduled a slate of 
events called Geek Week. With 
events ranging from juvenile geek 
activities like playing with toys and 
watching movies with lots of nerd 
appeal to more plugged-in pursuits 
like playing video games, Geek Week 
had something for all varieties of 
dweeb.
A number of the activities during 
the week were designed to bring out 
the yoiing geek in the participants. 
The centerpiece was perhaps Friday’s 
event, “Toys! Toys! Toys!” The orga­
nizers managed to assemble a 
remarkable variety of playthings 
from years past, including Voltron, 
Play-Doh, Lite Brite, Mr. and Mrs. 
Potato Head, and a whopping 36,000 
Legos. Even if you’re someone who 
thinks that they don’t qualify as a 
geek at all, that’s a whole lot of 
Legos. Prior to that, the AB sched­
uled a substantially more violent toy- 
related evening, as dolls of Britney 
Spears, Teletubbies, and Jar Jar 
Biriks met their unfortunate demise 
at the hands of the attendees. 
Deservedly, every Star Wars fan’s 
arch-nemesis Jar Jar took the worst 
beating of all.
If there’s one thing that geeks like, 
other than computers (naturally), it’s
movies, and Geek Week featured 
plenty of them. Thursday evening the 
AB screened the classic geek movie 
Real Genius. The following night was 
a long night of late-night showings, 
this time with the focus on Japanese 
anime. Japanimation favorites like 
Vampire Hunter D, Ghost in the Shell, 
and Ninja Scroll were screened until 
the wee hours of the morning.
A Geek Week without computérs 
and video games just wouldn’t be 
right, and the CMU effort was full of 
both of them, for all degrees of tech­
nology lovers. For those moderate 
geeks just interested in the fun side of 
computing, a five-round video game 
tournament was held in Wean Hall. 
After the first four qualifying rounds, 
the competition culminated in the 
finals on Saturday, complete with fog 
machine and strobe lights. The 
entrants were known only by first 
names and sometimes initials. Mike 
S. prevailed in “Soul Caliber” on the 
Sega Dreamcast, Mike C. took “Street 
Fighter EX3” on the PlayStation 2, 
and Eli won “Tekken Tag” for PS2. 
The old Nintendo Entertainment 
System made a welcome appearance 
as well, as Nathan L. beat all chal­
lengers at the classic “Dr. Mario.”
For those more interested in the 
technical side of all things computer, 
Geek Week offered a couple of inter­
esting events. Jim Waldo gave a lec­
ture on Wednesday, “Networks of 
Things: Changing the Network 
Rules,” perhaps to get the partici­
pants into the tech-geek spirit of 
things. Intriguing hacker-related 
competitions were designed by the 
AB, but would-be participants failed 
to enter, probably because they were 
too busy... hacking.
Miller Gallery opens three new art exhibits
by Blake EngelPersonnel Manager
This Friday, the Regina 
Gouger Miller Gallery opened 
its latest exhibitions, “Digital 
Explorations,” “Nagoya Zokei 
Works on Paper,” and “Kindred 
Spirits.”
“Digital Explorations,” the 
first floor exhibit, showcases 
work from Architecture and 
Design School students and 
professors, specifically in build­
ing fly-throughs and designing 
kinetic typography. Professor 
Suguru Ishizaki displays his 
work on “The Bible Project,” in 
which highly emotional Biblical 
passages are made more visible 
by using moving type. Similar 
projects that he and his stu­
dents completed for the 
Pennsylvania Department of 
Transportation to show the 
tragedy of auto accidents are 
also on display.
The second floor of the 
gallery is home to work from 
the Nagoya Zokei Junior 
College of Art and Design in 
Japan. One work, “Hope and 
Peace,” is a large-format photo­
graph of the words “hope” and 
“peace” spelled out in cigarette 
tobacco. Also on display are
sketches from a backpacker 
who made the long trek from 
Japan to Carnegie Mellon 
almost entirely by foot. And 
Michiaki Miyata’s “Outline 00- 
04” is a fascinating series of 
thin sheets of paper into which 
figures’ oiitlines have been 
burned using some kind of tiny 
flame.
The highlight of the exhibi­
tion on the second floor was the 
free sushi, served up by 
Japanese chefs. With styrofoam 
plates full of sushi in hand, visi­
tors could at least try to feel a 
little more Japanese.
Walking into the space on the 
third floor, observers are greet­
ed with a large, white sheet 
hanging from the ceiling. A 
closer look reveals that it’s 
sewn together like a baseball, 
with thick, black strings. 
Further toward the back of the 
room, two TV screens loop a 
video of hands washing the 
same piece of cloth in milk. Also 
in this part of the gallery are 
pieces from Marilee Keys that 
consist of grasses and roots 
pinned to the wall.
The exhibition will be on dis­
play in the Gallery in the 
Purnell Center for the Arts until 
December 15, and will be 
closed from November 22-26.The second floor of the Miller Gallery’s new exhibits consists of projects by Japanese students. The other floors include more multimedia-oriented creations.
Renowned jazz pianist Ellis Marsalis to perform Monday in Kresge Theater
by Joanna SmileyCo-Arts and Living Editor
This afternoon at 4:30, CMU 
will have the honor of hosting an 
unusual and exciting CFA event. 
Ellis Marsalis, father of world- 
renowned jazz musicians Wynton 
and Branford Marsalis, will be per­
forming in the Kresge Theater as 
part of the Alcoa lecture series. 
Ellis Marsalis is an acclaimed jazz 
pianist, regarded as the premier 
modern jazz pianist in New 
Orleans. He . is a professor of jazz 
at New Orleans University and a 
recording artist for Sony Recprds. 
The concert will be sponsored by 
the Alcoa Foundation, the 
President’s Diversity Council, the 
Student Affairs Division, and the 
Graduate Programs Office of
Carnegie Mellon.
Ellis Marsalis comes from a fam­
ily of incredible musical talent. 
Son Branford is a tenor saxophon­
ist and is regarded as an innovator 
in modern mainstream jazz. 
Wynton Marsalis, his other son, is 
the head of the prestigious 
Lincoln Jazz Center in New York 
City. He has been playing jazz 
trumpet since the early ‘80s, and 
his musical compositions range 
from classical to “straight-ahead” 
jazz.
The concert will run from 4:30- 
5:30 today. It will be free and 
open to the public. Following the 
performance, Professor Marsalis 
will be conducting an Open Master 
class for music students, which 
will also take place in Kresge. For 
music students and anyone inter­
ested in seeing a phenomenal con­
cert jazz pianist, this is an event 
that you won’t want to miss.
The second CFA event spon­
sored by Alcoa is slated for next 
semester, on February 26th. The 
University will be hosting a panel 
of community leaders who will 
speak on “Race in Pittsburgh: 
Current Issues and Initiatives.” 
Esther Bush, president of the 
Urban League of Pittsburgh; Sala 
Udin, city councilman, City of 
Pittsburgh; and the Honorable 
Justin Johnson, Superior Court of 
Pennsylvania will speak on the 
panel.
The Alcoa visitor series is a 
series of lecture events sponsored 
by the Alcoa corporation. 
Headquartered in Pittsburgh, 
Alcoa is the world’s leading pro­
ducer of primary aluminum, fabri­
cated aluminum, and alumina.
Students organize “town meeting” will discuss problems in Israel, Middle East
by Joanna SmileyCo-Arts and Living Editor
By this time, most people in the 
Carnegie Mellon community are 
at least somewhat aware of the 
dangerous and unresolved prob­
lems that pose serious threats to 
both Israel’and countries in the 
Middle East. It may seem as 
though there is little we college 
students can do to help resolve 
this situation. Nevertheless, one 
student at CMU has organized an 
important event that will take 
place this Wednesday: a unique 
panel discussion that will focus 
on the various perspectives that 
members of the campus commu­
nity have to offer.
Kobi Wimisberg, an SDS stu­
dent, is responsible for a good
deal of the organization of this 
event, working in conjunction 
with Hillel, the Jewish organiza­
tion at CMU. The event is in fact 
a simulation of a “town meeting,” 
aiming to raise awareness 
through an open discussion for 
students about the current situa­
tion in the Middle East. A vari­
ety of guest speakers will appear 
at the event. Giora Becher, gener­
al consul of Israel, and Lour 
Weiss, owner of businesses 
WeissHouse and Wishbox will be 
giving talks at the meeting. In 
addition, a few professors from 
the University are also expected 
to speak, including professor 
Laurie Eisenberg from the 
Department of History.
Part of the town meeting will 
involve Wimisberg discussing the 
feelings and perspectives of an
Israeli soldier and officer. Most 
of the meeting, however, will be 
dedicated to a debate consisting 
of questions, opinions, and argu­
ments from the audience to the 
speakers. Wimisberg believes 
that the gathering is “an excep­
tional opportunity for the CMU 
community to hear and feel how 
things look from different per­
spectives.”
The event will take place 
Wednesday at noon in the 
Connan Room of the University 
Center. It is open to students, fac­
ulty, and members of the 
Pittsburgh community, and is a 
unique opportunity to go beyond 
news reports and learn more 
about what people at CMU think 
regarding the critical situation 
taking place in Israel and the 
Middle East.

---------------------------------------------------

13NNo
... BY DELIVERY!
Lisa Harrow inWit
PITTSBURGHn ¦Ü
THEATER
by Margaret Edson • Directed by Ethan McSweeny
Contains brief hospital-like nudity.
Now thru December 10 • O'Reilly Theater, Downtown 
UNDER 26/FULL TIME STUDENTS - ONLY $10* 
(412) 316-1600 • www.ppt.org
* Available In advance for Sunday thru Thursday evenings and all matinees.
One hour before performance for Friday and Saturday evenings. Valid ID required.
DU® 90.5 FM Pittsburgl) JJosI -«fiazcttc
The O'Reilly is a theater of The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
THE TARTAN » NOVEMBER 13, 2000
Campus should learn a lesson from Florida’s Presidential election trouble
Less Stress?
by: Emily Landes
For quite some time now I have 
asserted that, should the apoca­
lypse come, signs indicate that it 
will begin in Pittsburgh. If you have 
. lived here for any substantial peri­
od of time, then you probably know 
what I am talking about. But recent 
! events have caused me to change 
, my mind: I now believe that the 
apocalypse will begin in Florida,
, specifically Palm Beach.
If you have been in a non- 
comatose state at any point in the 
last week then I’m sure no further 
explanation is necessary. However, 
just in case you are not aware of all 
• of the intricacies of our esteemed 
electoral process, a headline from 
| the London Times pretty much says 
it all — “Liberal Jews vote for Hitler 
Admirer.” Never in my life have I 
; seen a sign that so clearly reads:
; “Four Horsemen, your time is now.”
Yet crazy as this whole election 
debacle has been, and as I’m sure it 
; will continue to be, one can cer- 
tainly point to the good that must 
come out of it. First of all, it has 
made politics hit home for a lot of 
people who might not have been 
interested before. This election has 
; all the makings of a Hollywood 
drama or even a daytime soap. 
Actually, can you imagine this story 
i as a script? It would never be 
approved. It would be too unbeliev­
able.
It’s also a bigger nail biter than 
any sporting event that I’ve ever 
seen. No matter how many over­
times a game has to go into, or how- 
r ever long it goes, I doubt that you’d
ever see even the closest game go 
on for a week and a half with nei­
ther team showing any sign that 
they might be defeated.
In addition to increasing passion 
about politics in general, no one 
could sit through this election with­
out realizing how important each 
and every vote is. Even with both 
candidates spending their last few 
important campaigning days con­
vincing people that their vote really 
did count, it didn’t make much of a 
difference. In 1996, when Clinton 
had a tremendous lead in the polls, 
a little less than half of the voting 
age population actually voted. This 
year, when Gore and Bush were vir­
tually tied going into election day, a 
little more than half the voting age 
population voted. Hopefully, this 
election will change that depress­
ing pattern.
Voting is particularly important 
for our age group. Eighteen to 
twenty-five year olds have the low­
est voter turnout in the country. As 
long as we continue to vote in such 
low numbers, candidates will con­
tinue to act as though prescription 
drugs are the most important issue 
in this country. I am aware that as 
college students, many of us are 
away from home during elections. 
Many people don’t want to go 
through the hassle of sending away 
for absentee ballots that aren’t even 
counted unless the race is close. 
But those absentee ballots may 
actually be the factor that decides 
who our next president will be. As 
such, it would be hard for any stu­
dent to argue in the future that his 
or her vote doesn’t matter. Who 
knows what state will be the next 
Florida? It could be anywhere.
I’m registered in New York, 
which was pretty much going Gore 
no matter what my ballot had to say 
about it. But you never know. Who 
would’ve thought that Gore would 
lose his home state of Tennessee 
(not to mention Clinton’s 
Arkansas)? Who would’ve thought, 
after all those anti-Hillary theories, 
that she would completely trounce 
her Republican opponent? Who 
would’ve thought the state where 
one of the candidate’s brothers was 
the governor would even be a point 
of contention, not to mention the 
point of contention? Who would’ve 
thought any of it? And who knows 
what the future entails?
Hopefully we can see how these 
national examples would apply on 
a campus level. Our student senate 
elections had an even lower voter 
turnout than our national turnout. 
Pretty pathetic, given national vot­
ing numbers. Had even an addi­
tional 70 people voted in Senate 
elections, we could have seen dif­
ferent results in almost every single 
race. In some races an additional 
seven votes could’ve made the dif­
ference. Seven votes, seven peo­
ple’s marks on paper strips. That’s 
all it would take. Hell, at this point, 
that’s all it might take to win the 
Presidency of the United States. 
Just another'sign that the apoca­
lypse is on its way.
Emily Landes was up until 5 am 
watching the poll results come in last 
Tuesday and still has not recovered 
from seeing Tom Brokaw yell at his 
cackling crew like a reprimanding 
teacher; “People! This is not funny. 
This is the Presidency of the United 
States!”
Boston-based company to offer more copyright law-friendly digital music
(U-WIRE) BOSTON - An Allston- 
: based Internet company run by a 
£ former Boston University College of 
“ Communication student is set to 
“ offer a new product bridging the 
'.gap in digital music between
- Napster’s popularity and copyright 
" law. Digital Media on Demand, Inc.
- ;(DMOD) is the brainchild of 24- 
r year-old Ty Rauber, who first con- 
! ceived of the idea as a freshman. He 
! later left Boston University to pur- 
• sue his business project. The prod­
uct will give artists economic and
j creative control over commercial 
j distribution of their work by incor­
porating encryption techniques, he 
i said.
Unlike Napster, which is 
designed for private users, DMOD 
! is geared toward a different audi- 
i ence. “The software is aimed more 
I toward film and record companies,
! rather than for individual use,” said 
company spokesman David Lubel. 
The bulk of payments will come 
from media corporations in search 
of tools to commercialize their 
clients.
Using the DMOD program, 
patrons can search for their favorite
artist and find videos, entire CDs 
and singles in one session. But 
before the user can download the 
contents, the files are checked for 
proper encryption and watermark­
ing to prevent illegal distribution. 
This control allows artists to collect 
money for their work, he said. 
Many DMOD employees are 
Boston-area musicians themselves, 
and understand the passion that 
goes into art and believe that artists 
deserve credit and control over 
their work, Rauber said.
Although Rauber recognized the 
convenience of Napster, he dis­
agreed with Napster’s technique. 
Napster facilitates the distribution 
of copyrighted music that is not 
intended to be free, but DMOD sup­
ports both the artist and the con­
sumer, allowing users to download 
music and video without leaving 
the artist empty-handed, Lubel 
said. “The intention of DMOD is 
more for artists by artists, whereas 
Napster violates the security that 
copyright tries to ensure,” Lubel 
said. “The artists are able to control 
where their music is going,” added 
Nick Hopkinson, an intern and
Rauber’s longtime friend.
DMOD encryption cannot be 
hacked by eager fans, the company 
claims, since the effort would be 
too complicated arid time-inten­
sive. With DMOD technology, a 
three-minute clip could be up to 
180 times more secure, he claimed. 
Rauber hopes to expand his startup 
worldwide from its “small” Allston 
base.
Right now, DMOD’s main clients 
are major record companies and 
film houses. With time, the pro­
gram will be available for leisure 
use since the software can be 
installed on any piece of Internet- 
ready equipment, Lubel said.
As the only New England compa­
ny asked by the Recording Industry 
Association, Liquid Audio, and 
MTV to join a lawsuit against 
Napster, the start-up company has 
gained recognition, Rauber said. 
Through the exposure, he hopes to 
build an even stronger foundation 
of trust so artists will use DMOD as 
a secure digital media go-between.
“We are not attempting to ruin 
the novelty of digital music,” he 
said.
University of Utah students discuss “Asian Americans and the Media”
(U-WIRE) SALT LAKE CITY - Ally 
McBeal has Lucy Liu, Icebox.com has 
Mr. Wong, and all of the other 
shows on television have, well ... 
maybe no one. “It all comes down 
to money,” said Santi Soumphol- 
phakdy, board member of the 
Associated Students of the 
University of Utah. “Look at 
Friends. How many minorities are 
there and how many years has the 
show been on?”
Thursday’s Asian American 
Awareness Week panel bluntly con­
fronted issues involving “Asian 
Americans and the Media.” The 
panel discussed the lack of Asian 
American representation in the 
media and entertainment as well as 
the few Asian American people 
actually working in these areas. 
“Mostly we can only see Asians in 
the newspapers for criminal activi­
ty or martial arts demonstrations,” 
said Jo-Ann Wong, a reporter for 
the Deseret News.
Danny La, photographer for The 
Salt Lake Tribune, agreed. “When I 
see Asian American males on com­
mercials they are normally sumo 
wrestlers,” La said. However, La, 
who came to the United States with
his parents from Vietnam at the age 
of one, is doing his part to further 
Asian American presence in his 
field. “Usually the only time I will 
see another Asian American is at a 
Jazz game,” said La.
Soumpholphakdy also wants to 
further the Asian American pres­
ence, but in Hollywood rather than 
the media. As a film student, he 
wishes to change the shortage of 
Asian Americans in fields outside of 
mathematical and scientific fields. 
“I believe film is a powerful medi­
um,” Soumpholphakdy said.
He pointed out Hollywood’s use 
of ethnic people as the “bad guys” 
and Caucasian people as always the 
“good guys.” He also said that in 
Hollywood, no minority ever “gets 
the girl.”
All those on the panel agreed the 
lack of representation of or fairness 
to ethnic minorities within the 
media and entertainment business 
can easily be solved, and there have 
been steps in the right direction. 
Radio station KRCL hosts ethnically 
diverse radio times, offering slots 
for different minorities to share 
their music and a bit of their cul­
ture over the radio. “That way,
Asians have a voice on the radio,” 
Wong said.
Wong also spoke of a drive 
among newspapers to try harder to 
include minority subject matter in 
the newspapers. Speakers and 
trainers have been brought into 
local newspapers to train reporters 
and photographers to cover more 
ethnically diverse stories.
“I have to say to The [Salt Lake] 
Tribune's credit they have done a 
good job,” Wong said holding up 
front page section pictures and sto­
ries for the audience to see. “It’s 
subtle things like [these diverse 
photos] that give minorities a 
voice.” No matter the voice, 
though, panel members said they 
know it will be a long time before 
Asian Americans gain equality 
within American society and media 
representation, panelists said.
The panel ended on a note of 
inspiration to Asian American audi­
ence members who expressed the 
pressures or anger of discrimina­
tion. “Those life experiences will 
make you ten times the person than 
those who hurt you,” Wong said, “I 
think those kinds of things make 
you a better person.”
December 7: Tartan Election Day
Ail the hype without the exit polls. 
?e page B5 for more details.
Htunony AT Muria/rnoio aiati
All the right notes: Virtuoso string quartet Cuarteto Latinoamericano plays during the group’s perfor­
mance in the Mellon Institute Saturday. The concert was Cuarteto’s second show at CMU this semester.
DELIVER TO YOUR DORM OR 
STOP IN OUR OAKLAND 
STORE. CMU MEAL PLAN 
ACCEPTED AT BOTH
r * LAflDE 16” 12 CUT LOCATIONS!
DELIVERY: 5P¥ TO 29* DAILY
OAKLAND HOURS: SUN-THURS: 10:009-3:009* 
FR1-SAT: 10:009-5:009«THE ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOP
C**I2) b87-8327 ______
HOW FORBES AVE, TT nMTT .< Use your CMU card 
LATE at our Forbes Ave. 
location!

---------------------------------------------------

Sam Student 
11715481«
Hear^This
Become a part of EnterPrize, Pittsburgh's Business Plan Competition. 
Learn from the experts at the following workshops being held at the 
Regional Enterprise Tower, 425 6th Avenue, 31st Floor, downtown.
November 14 5:30 p.m. "How to Write a Business Plan 101" 
November 21 5:30 p.m. "Business Concept Development" 
November 28 5:30 p.m. "How to Write a Business Plan 101"
To register for the competition, workshops and other 
EnterPrize events, please call 412.918.4219 or register A 
through our web site at www.enterprizepgh.org.
/A
PittsburghTechnology Council EfTTGRPRIZE
Organized by Carnegie Mellon University, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, McKinsey 
& Company, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, Pittsburgh Technology Council, Seton Hill 
College, University of Pittsburgh, Washington and Jefferson College, Waynesburg College 
Underwriters: Buchanan Ingersoll Professional Corporation; Heinz Endowments;Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP 
Gold Sponsor: PricewaterhouseCoopers
Silver Sponsors: Jewish Healthcare Foundation; McKessonHBOC Automated Healthcare; 
PNC VentureBank; Reed Smith Shaw & McClay; Tippins Foundation
THE TARTAN « NOVEMBER 13. 2000_____________________________________________________________________________________________H3
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, November 14, 
1950 — Carnegie Tech’s nationally 
famous dramatic society, Scotch ‘n’ 
Soda, selected the script for its ninth 
annual production. As usual, the 
show would run for three evenings 
during Spring Carnival weekend. 
The script was written by Bob 
Larimer and Fred Price, who wrote 
the previous year’s show, Too Much. 
Both members of the authoring duo 
were seniors in the Engineering 
School and had been involved with 
the organization since their fresh­
man year.
The upcoming performance, Light 
Fantastique, was a musical and a 
basic revue. The show had a subplot 
that ran throughout the production 
to unite the unrelated scenes. The 
show’s setting was the Carnegie 
Tech campus and the Pittsburgh 
area, but it did not deal exclusively 
with college life. For this year, their 
show was to move off-campus and 
not be held in the usual Gym or 
Music Hall.
25 YEARS AGO, November 11, 
1975 — H&SS Dean John Crecine 
announced that a new Social Science 
department would be developed. He 
said he would complete the work 
that former H&SS Dean Erwin 
Steinberg started when he assem­
bled the college. Sociologists and 
behavioral scientists would be added 
to the faculty, according to Crecine. 
Ten new faculty members, consisting 
of four political scientists, two sociol­
ogists, and four economists, would 
be added to the new Social Science 
department over the next three 
years.
Crecine said that having a large 
Social Science department had 
numerous advantages. He said it 
would allow the school to extend the 
boundaries of research and teaching. 
The new department would allow 
students to see what interdiscipli­
nary majors had to offer while still 
offering conventional disciplinary 
majors. Crecine anticipated that the 
new faculty members would be espe­
cially innovative.
In order to help form the new 
department and achieve its goals, a 
special group of eminent social sci­
entists was assembled to act as an 
advisory committee. They included 
James G. March of Stanford 
University, Richard Nelson of Yale 
University, and Charles Tilly of the 
University of Michigan.
TEN YEARS AGO, November 12, 
1990 — CMU considered a proposal 
developed by Student Government 
President Kishore Rao to give a select 
group of undergraduate scholars a 
tuition-free fifth year. According to 
Vice President for University 
Relations Don Hale, the proposal 
called for selecting some of the 
University’s top students and, after 
they graduate, giving them an 
opportunity to stay at the school for 
a year and study what they wanted at 
no charge.
The University of Rochester had a 
similar program called “Take Five,” 
on which the CMU proposal was 
loosely based. That program 
allowed about 20 students to stay at 
the school and study subjects they 
were unable to pursue as undergrad­
uates. A representative of that pro­
gram said that its purpose was to 
widen the breadth of education.
According to Dean of Student 
Affairs Michael Murphy, selection for 
the program would be primarily aca­
demic, with some attention paid to 
leadership and extracurricular 
involvement.
FIVE YEARS AGO, November 13, 
1995 — Carnegie Mellon donated 
$35,000 worth of used computer 
equipment to Goodwill Industries of 
Pittsburgh, setting up a Computer
Recycling Center on the South Side. 
Computing Services operations man­
ager Chuck Bartel said that the 
University hoped to continue to pro­
vide expertise and donations to 
Goodwill.
CMU created its own recycling 
center the previous year to provide 
more usable machines to the com­
munity through the University 
Outreach program. That center was 
intended to gather unused equip­
ment to recycle it in an environmen­
tally responsible way and provide 
inexpensive equipment to needy 
individuals.
ONE YEAR AGO, November 15, 
1999 — Vincent Eirene, a long-time 
activist opposed to CMU’s Software 
Engineering Institute (SEI), orga­
nized a protest about their 
Department of Defense funding. The 
protest was in conjunction with a 
presentation made by Nobel Prize 
nominee Philip Berrigan on the top­
ics of activism and protests in gener­
al. There were about 10-15 protest­
ers, in addition to police and the 
media.
Eirene said that the SEI makes sure 
that air force bases are interfaced 
with other military bases and works 
on an initiative to establish military 
installations in orbit around the 
Earth.
Vice President for University 
Relations Don Hale denied that the 
SEI is involved in any initiatives to 
engineer weapons systems or create 
weapons software. He said that 
Eirene is free to express his views 
and has done so for many years. 
Hale said that Eirene has a relation­
ship with Campus Police whereby he 
notifies them when he plans .to 
protest. They make sure that he is 
treated fairly and is given the oppor­
tunity to express his views.
Compiled by
Seth MandelJeff Cullers/Photo Staff
Geek Week organizer Guido Zarrella gets rewarded for his efforts with a massive downpour of Legos.
What a difference 
the train makes!
December 2,10:00 am to 2:30 pm 
Pittsburgh Marriott City Center 
112 Washington Place, Pittsburgh, PA
Attention dancers, singers, actors, musicians, variety artists, stage ; 
managers and technicians. Don’t miss this opportunity to audition for: 
an exciting position at Busch Gardens in Williamsburg Virginia. I
Especially sought for 2001 are musicians who play traditional Irish ! 
instruments and actors proficient at Irish dialects.
call our Audition Hotline: BlISCH1-800-253-3302 or visit: GARDENSwww.talentsearchbgw.com WILLIAMSBURG, VA
or write: AUDITIONS c/o Busch Gardens, One Busch Gardens Blvd., Williamsburg, ! 
VA 23187-8785. Anheuser-Busch Theme Parks are Equal Opportunity Employers M/F/D/V. 1 
Video taped auditions; If you are unable to attend any of our auditions; scud your resume, recent photo i 
and video tape of your performance (o the address above. (Photos and video tapes can not be returned.) j
Enjoy the comfort and convenience of traveling with 
Amtrak® this holiday season.
Student Advantage® Members save 15%' on rail fares to over 500 destinations all year
long, including the holidays. To join Student Advantage, call 1-877-2JOIN-SA or visit 
studentadvantage.com.
For Amtrak® information and reservations, call 1-800-USA-RAIL or visit www.amtrak.com.
•Hot valid on peak weekday Metrollner* or Acela Express'" Trains and Canadian portions of trains operated jointly by Amtrak and VIA Rail Canada, or on connecting services via non-Amtrak carriers.
If you are not a Student Advantage Member, enjoy a one 
time savings of 10% when you present this coupon and 
your valid student I.D.1, 2000 and December 18, 2000, for travel fromTickets must be purchased between November November 1, 2000 through January 31, 2001.
Original coupon must be surrendered at the time of purchase. 
Offer valid for select trains only — Not valid on unreserved NEC service, 
Metrollneri Acela Express? Acela" Regional, Auto Train* Canadian portion of Joint 
AmtrakA/IA* service, 7000 & 8000 series Thruway Services, multi-ride fare plans and any 
other discounts or promotions. Offer non-refundable after payment is made. Valid for 
Business Class and Sleeping Car upon payment of full application accommodation 
charge. Other restrictions may apply. Amtrak is a registered service mark of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation.
TRAVEL AGENTS: access your GDS for complete details: G/PRO/STH/P1-P8; Sabre: 
Y/PRO/STH/P1-P8. Attach coupon to auditor's coupon; if electronically reporting, attach 
to agent coupon. All Travel Agents and Amtrak Ticketing Agents please return the 
coupon to: Amtrak Customer Segmentation, 10 G Street. NE, Washington, DC 20002.
ARC # 8 554 270 0000 080 0Mention Code: H080
Name:
Address:
"^AMTRÄK
City: __ 
E-mail:
State:______ Zip:

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
13 November 12000THE TARTANPage B4
Early learning at Child Development Center helps children explore ideas
tJV Grace KimJpnior Staffwriter
Passing the rigid security sys­
tem that controls the entrance to 
the front door, an entirely new 
environment of bright and color­
ful walls decorated with crafts 
made by children and pictures of 
their smiling faces exists. The 
Margaret Shadick Cyert Center for 
Early Education evidently over­
came the challenge of renovating 
the space that was once a recre­
ational room in the Morewood 
Gardens dormitory into an ideal­
istic environment that inspires 
creativity in children. Judy 
Abrams, training coordinator at 
the Cyert Center, explained that 
the center’s large expanding win­
dows, variety of mirrors, and con­
trasting light settings are meant to 
expose children to complex 
images.
Modeled after an unorthodox 
approach introduced by the Reggio 
Emilia philosophy that “is commit­
ted to the creation of conditions for 
learning that will enhance and 
facilitate children’s construction of 
‘his or her own powers of thinking 
through synthesis of all the expres­
sive, communicative, and cognitive 
languages,’ ” the Center focuses on 
research involving child psycholo­
gy. Unlike the typical definition of 
research, this research is a “co-con­
struction of knowledge together by 
educators, teachers, and children,” 
said Mary Maloney, an educational 
coordinator. She says that the 
Center firmly believes that children 
involved with their own explo­
rations are able to learn more and 
apply themselves successfully.
In fact, children at the Center are 
encouraged to select their own pro­
jects that may last from one day to 
as long as two school years. These 
projects may be as simple as sketch­
ing a self-portrait or as complicated 
a$ taking day tours to study birds’ 
nests. The roles of the educators 
are simply to observe and assist in 
planning children’s interests. As 
$art of their psychology research,
The Reggio Inspired Approach
1. The image of the child: all children have potential, construct their own learning, 
and arc capable.
2. Community and system: children, family, teachers, parents, 
and community are interactive and work together.
3. Interest in environment and beauty: school and classrooms arc beautiful places
4. Collaboration by tcachcrs: team, partners, working together, 
sharing information, sharing in projects.
5. Time not set by clock: respect for children's pace, time table,
stay with teachers for several years, and relationships remain constant.
6. Emergent curriculum/projects: child-centered, following their interest, 
returning again and again to add new insights.
7. Environmental stimulation: encourages activity, involvement, discovery, 
and using a variety of media.
8. Documentation: observing, recording, thinking and showing children's learning.
Summarized by Dr. Rebecca Isbell
the educators have found that the 
building of personal relationships 
with individual children is impor­
tant, so each educator moves up 
every year with their same group of 
6-8 students. Children range from 
three months old to the kinder­
garten grade level. Since not all of 
them are able to speak, projects 
involving infants are based on “the 
idea that children are born speak­
ing, and speaking to someone.”, 
said Maloney. Furthermore, the 
educators encourage the participa­
tion of parents by reflecting on 
daily lessons children learn.
One of the main goals of the 
Center is to help children to con­
nect learning with experiences.
“The Center continue [s] to strive 
to offer a warm and supportive envi­
ronment that enhances the positive 
growth and development in each 
child,” said Marsha Poster, executive 
director of the Cyert Center for Early 
Education and Program for 
Collaborative Learning.
For the purposes of providing 
children with the greatest quality 
of education, all educators are 
required to have a minimum of a 
bachelor’s degree, appropriate cer­
tificates, and specific courses such
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
as child development, art, and psy­
chology. They are also required to 
attend an annual conference held 
in Italy with other institutions 
adapting the Reggio Emilia 
approach. The Cyert Center, along 
with the Program for Collaborative 
Learning, hosted the last confer­
ence in September 2000 titled 
“Children, Spaces, Relations: 
Reflections from Reggio Emilia, 
Italy.”
Although traditional research is 
not practiced by the Center at this 
time, Poster says that the Center is 
open to the psychology depart­
ment. However, the reason for not 
implementing clinical research on 
children at the Center is mainly 
because of the belief that if children 
were to be treated as subjects, the 
level of teaching would limit the 
children from experiencing collab­
orative learning. Instead, the chil­
dren take on the role of researchers 
and educators do research in accor­
dance with their interests.
Such an initiative is sure to bring 
about increased interest in the 
field, and also ensures a quality pri­
mary education for children 
enrolled in the program at the 
Center.
Handheld program sold at local stores
by Sriram GollapalliScience & Technology Editor
! The Slideshow Commander, a 
product developed by researchers 
4t CMU enable users to control 
PowerPoint presentations with a 
hand-held Palm and WinCE con­
nected organizer, is becoming 
available at CompUSA stores here. 
\“Most people are looking at how 
you can use handhelds when you 
clon’t have the desktop computer 
nearby,” said Brad Myers, Human- 
(pomputer Interaction Insitute 
Senior Research Scientist. “We see 
chem working in conjunction as 
machines communicate wirelessly 
more and more.”
1 The software, Slideshow
¿ommander, was licensed from the 
university and commercialized ear­
lier this year by Synergy Solutions, 
Inc, a New York City-based sub­
sidiary ofBarPoint.com, Inc.
The Slideshow Commander
allows PowerPoint users to control 
their talks via a Palm or Microsoft 
PocketPC without having to be next 
to their laptops. They can move 
around and easily change slides. 
On the display screen of their 
Portable Digital Assistant (PDA), 
they can scribble notes, see a list of 
the slides, the notes for each slide, 
and the time. It also allows other 
attendees who using the PebblesPC 
product to annotate on the current 
slide.
There are four panels for Slide 
Show Commander for the Palm. 
The Scribble Panel works while a 
presentation is playing. This panel 
displays a thumbnail of the current 
slide and allows fellow Pebbles 
users to annotate the current slide. 
Each user has a different color, and 
they take turns making notes.
The Notes Panel displays the 
notes associated with the slide. The 
Titles Panel displays a list of the 
slide titles. Finally, the Timer Panel 
displays a timer for use in timing
the presentation.
Myers, who heads the Pebbles 
research project in the Human 
Computer Interaction Institute, 
says Slideshow Commander is the 
product of three years of research 
into how hand-held computers and 
PCs can work effectively together.
Pebbles applications work with 
serial, infrared, and network con­
nections between PDAs and the PC. 
They expect to support future tech­
nologies such as BlueTooth and 
HomeRF.
The Pebbles project creates appli­
cations for one or more PDAs when 
connected to a PC. As part of their 
research, they have developed 
numerous applications that are free 
for general use.
These applications include items 
such as a Remote Commander 
[Palm or WindowsCE] that allows 
one or more PDAs to be used as if 
they were the PC’s cursor and key­
board. The Windows CE version 
see PEBBLES, page B5
Review Comer: Fujifilm FinePix 40i
Surya Singh
Fujifilm’s new entry into the digital camera mar­
ket - the FinePix 40i - is compact, feature-packed, 
and like no other camera on the market. This unit 
combines a MP3 file player with Fujifilm’s 2.4 
megapixel Super CCD digital imaging array which 
results in a small personal camera that can capture 
good photographs, short clips, video sequences, or 
play music (through earphones), yet is small enough 
to be tucked away in a shirt pocket.
The most notable characteristic of the FinePix 40i 
is its compact, wotry-free, and portable nature. The 
camera is approximately 3.5" wide by 3" high by 1" 
thick and weighs about 10 ounces (with batteries). 
It is housed in a blue or silver colored brushed alloy 
case with a motorized metal lens cover. Thanks to 
this design the FinePix 40i does not look like a tradi­
tional camera nor require the special care or protec­
tion often associated with these devices.
Controlling and operating the FinePix 40i is sim­
ple and straightforward. Images can be selected 
using either the camera’s LCD screen or the 
viewfinder to take images. The camera itself is con­
trolled via a few well-placed metallic buttons that do 
everything from trigger the shutter to set the zoom 
and menu features. The 1.9" LCD screen is bright 
and does an excellent job of not only previewing the 
image to be captured, but displaying stored images 
and cameras options/settings.
The main feature that distinguishes the FinePix 
40i from other compact digital camera is the inclu­
sion of an audio player for MP3 files. The unit is able 
to play MP3 audio files which have been stored onto 
the Smartmedia™ memory card inserted in the cam­
era. The player itself is controlled through the cam­
era’s remote control unit which outputs line-level 
audio to a traditional 1/8 inch stereo audio jack. 
While performing as specified, the player is lacklus­
ter and not nearly as well integrated with the camera 
as the other features (i.e., image preview and video 
capture). In essence, the player appears to be an 
add-on to Fujifilm’s FinePix 4500 (a “pocket camera” 
sold in Japan) as the MP3 player is not well integrat­
ed with the rest of the camera’s hardware. For exam­
ple, audio can not be played by the FinePix 40i’s 
built-in speaker nor can does the player take advan­
tage of the camera’s high-quality LCD to display 
additional data about the music playing or simulta­
neously play music when performing other opera­
tions.
As with all new Fujifilm cameras, the FinePix 40i 
uses Fujifilm’s SuperCCD octagonal imaging array 
technology. Fujifilm promises that Super CCD sys­
tems (when compared to traditional CCD arrays) 
will have sharper images, increased sensitivity, 
faster response times, and more compact features. 
In general, the FinePix 40i tested delivered on 
Fujifilm’s claims and captures clear images with 
good color saturation and quality, especially for elec­
tronic applications (e.g., posting on the Internet). 
The f2.8 lens/optics gave sharp, well-exposed 
images and is ideal for wide-angle images. The dig­
ital zoom seamless enlarged images as required and 
did not leave blurry areas. Finally, the ISO 200 
equivalent film speed and automatic white balanc­
ing resulted in high-quality images even when used 
with variety of lighting sources (see also Sample 
Pictures).
For print applications (e.g., 300 dots per inch 
[dpi] color-laser printouts), the slightly pixilated 
and blurred images are still bested by traditional 
camera film. Furthermore, at high print resolutions 
the images captured are relatively small. For exam­
ple, an image that measures 1280 x 960 pixels when 
printed at 300 dpi is only 4.3" x 3.2" and ¿t 2400 x 
1800 pixels (the camera’s highest resolution) it is 
only 8" x 4."
The software that drives the FinePix 40i is feature 
rich and easy to use, especially after spending a few 
moments to discover all the features the camera soft­
ware offers. The controls menu uses a combination 
of icons and text to prompt the user in the operation 
of the camera. Furthermore, common features (e.g., 
delete picture) are placed near the beginning of the 
menu and are easy to access. The software also has 
a number of advanced features including a framing 
guideline function that helps with placing the image
courtesy Fujifilm
in focus, scrolling preview, image-overview, image 
time/date stamping, and an real-time update/dis­
play of the number of images left and the battery life 
remaining.
However, the camera is not perfect or without 
flaws. There are three particularly weak points 
about this camera, namely:
1. The flosh is weak and underpowered: Any object 
greater than two meters away will quickly fade into 
the background. It is almost imperative that there 
be good lighting when taking pictures of objects in 
the distance.
2. The battery life can be somewhat short: In our 
tests the battery had to be recharged after taking 
forty pictures and/or using the camera off and on for 
a few hours.
3. Value: The camera can cost upwards of $550. 
This is a good deal of money for a camera, albeit a 
very slick one that delivers the best images in the 
two megapixel class. While not as compact or as 
superior, one could buy an ordinary two megapixel 
camera and a decent portable MP3 player for the 
price of the FinePix 40i.
The FinePix 40i comes with a small collection of 
PC and Macintosh programs that help with the use 
of this camera with a Windows or MacOS PC. The 
software packages allow for image retrieval from the 
camera, the capture and production of MP3 files 
(from an Audio CD-ROM), and the uploading of 
MP3 files to camera. The PC version of the software 
programs (which included Real’s Jukebox Plus) 
worked well on both Windows 2000 and Windows 
98. When tested on an Andrew cluster G3, the 
Macintosh versions of the program kept loading in 
Japanese text. However, they appear to be function­
ing properly. At present, there is no support for any 
other operating systems (including Linux, Solaris, 
Windows NT 4, or Windows 95).
It is important to note that because the camera 
uses USB as its standard interface in communicating 
with a PC the camera can not interface directly with 
Windows NT 4.0 or Windows 95 (except OSR 2.1, 
which requires the optional USB driver). Microsoft 
did not develop USB drivers for Windows NT 4.0 and 
Windows 95 and has no plans to do so.
The documentation for both the camera and the 
software is well written and fully illustrated. The 
camera’s documentation is quite helpful, especially 
when operating the camera in manual mode and/or 
when tweaking the operation of advanced controls.
In additional to the camera, the FinePix 40i also 
ships with a variety of additional items. These 
include: a 16 MB Smartmedia™ memory card, a set 
of rechargeable Ni-MH (Nickel Metal-Hydride) bat­
teries, a battery charger, a small pair of headphones 
(for playing audio files), and necessary cables (USB, 
video transfer, etc.).
The FinePix 40i is a multifunction digital camera 
that combines a terrific compact digital camera for 
general photographic use with an acceptable, but 
not perfect, MP3 player in a rugged, yet cute, pack­
age. If it only were a bit cheaper, it would definitely 
be an absolute gem and a perfect buy.
see DIGITAL CAMERA, page B5
Turkeys on treadmills
Turkeys aren’t just a symbol of 
Thanksgiving and a tasty filling 
for sandwiches - they’re also 
teaching scientists about biome­
chanics.
Researchers at Harvard and 
Northeastern universities set wild 
turkeys trotting on treadmills to 
find out how muscles work in the 
course of running.
The avian atheletes showed 
that leg muscles in fact do very 
little in a sprint or a stride. The 
turkey’s equivalent of a calf muscle hardly contracts at all during a 
dash. Instead, a lot of the locomotion comes from energy stored in a 
combination of muscle and tendon that acts as a kind of rubber band. 
Instead of muscle fibers actually contracting, they stretch in conjunc­
tion with the tendon they’re attached to. Like a rubber band, when the 
stretching is relaxed, energy is released ... propelling the bird for­
ward.
As you can see, turkeys are putting their best foot forward ... so 
keep this in mind the next time you and your loved ones fight over the 
drumstick.
Source: National Public Radio.
Lindsay Clark/Art Staff
NSF grant enables research for faster internet
C.pnfpr fnr Snnprrnmnnrina AnnliVarinnc nmiix'f naimc t-l-io fnr cmont-h r»r\mr»nHnc
by Sriram VaidhyanathanAssistant Science & Technology Editor
The National Science Foundation awarded 
the WeblOO project a $2.9 million grant last 
week, for research that could greatly improve 
data transmission rates for researchers and 
scientists around the country. Network band­
width around the world that is readily avail­
able to these researchers is not being exploited 
fully, and the WeblOO project hopes to develop 
software that resolves this problem.
“The money will be used to pay researchers 
who are working on software to automatical­
ly diagnose and tune operating systems for 
maximum network performance,” said Sean 
Fulton, public relations specialist.
Researchers that have access to network 
speeds of over 100 Megabits (Mbs) per second 
rarely gain performance over 3 Mbs, and this is 
often a result of problems in configuration of 
operating systems, that lead to slowing down 
the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) across 
networks. A joint effort between the Pittsburgh 
Supercomputing Center, the National Center for 
Atmospheric Research (NCAR) and the National
Center for Supercomputing Applications 
(NCSA), the project will design software that 
can interact with the operating system and user 
applications to automatically “tune” the perfor­
mance of the protocol, hence providing the 
maximum utilization of available bandwidth. 
The grant from the NSF provides the financial 
backing for such an initiative.
“Progress in network access and electronic 
interaction utilizing the Internet requires 
more than increased bandwidth,” said Aubrey 
Bush, director for the NSF’s division of 
Advanced Networking Infrastructure and 
Research. “A real challenge now is providing 
end-to-end performance. This project will 
address some key network issues that limit 
Internet performance and work toward effec­
tively removing barriers. The goal is to better 
take advantage of available resources.”
The eventual goal is for ordinary network 
users to be empowered with the capability to 
access full network data rates without help 
from experts. Eventually this technology is 
sure to find its way down to the college stu­
dent. Slow network speeds in spite of high 
capability have long been a bottleneck for 
most academics and researchers, and such a
project paves the way for smooth computing 
and network resources for the same people. 
Previously a job for network engineers, 
WeblOO places the tools for maximum perfor­
mance in the hands of the end user. Today’s 
TCP/IP protocol conceals all underlying net­
work problems, and one of the goals of 
WeblOO is to not only establish a standard in 
network performance, but also allow the 
researcher to reach high speeds without hav­
ing an extensive knowledge of the internal 
workings of the network.
“The WeblOO Project seeks to provide solu­
tions to the bandwidth-delay-product prob­
lem,” said Basil Irwin, senior network engineer 
at NCAR.
The software tools will be designed initially 
for Linux, but are to be written in an easy-to- 
convert manner to other platforms as well to 
allow for easy integration into other operating 
systems.
The Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center is a 
joint venture between Carnegie Mellon 
University, University of Pittsburgh, and the 
Westinghouse Electric Company, and was 
established in 1986.

---------------------------------------------------

Frustrated by lotions, potions, gizmos or gadgets?
Yahr Electrolysis CenterStill the only permanent hair removal!
Jane G. Yahr, CPE Dr. Charles J. Yahr, CPE
Nationally Board Certified Daytime & Evening Appts.
Squirrel Hill
(412) 422-4490
5824 Forbes Avenue 
50 % off first visit with mention of this ad
Egg Donor Needed
$25,000 Compensation
We are a loving, infertile 
couple hoping to find a 
compassionate woman to 
help us have a baby.
We're looking for a 
healthy, intelligent college 
vj.- student or college grad,
age 21-33, with blue eyes 
and blonde or light brown 
hair. Your gift of life would 
bring great joy.
Please contact us through 
our representative at 
1.800.776.7680.
THE AMERICAN 
UNIVERSITY 
OF PARIS
Two 5-week Summer Sessions 
Session I: June 3-July 5 
Session II: July 9-Aug. 10
Over 100 Courses
Trench Immersion
Other Special Programs
Tel: (33/1) 40 62 06 14 
Fax: (33/1) 40 62 07 17 
or in NY (212) 983-1414 
sum me r@aup.fr 
www.aup.edu
Summer in 
Paris 2001
THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13. 2000
Chris Messina/Online Design Editor
Beilfi lalgfrrSVs
IDanaging Editor 
fleuis Editor 
Forum Editor 
Sports Editor 
Orts 6 Liuing Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Business Editor 
Science & Technology Editor Online Design Editor
eooo
Photo Editor 
Art Editor
Dossier Literary Editor 
Dossier Design Editor 
Online Editor
Join us noui comrade! The elections are coming soon! Contact the Tartan 
Democratic Committee Chairs Comrade Brun Imhrunfiiandretul or Comrade 
Gollapalli (sriramn@andreiii) for information on haul you can do your part!
Science and Technology Briefs
CMU finishes fourth 
in RoboCup 2000
Debut for Pebbles
PEBBLES, from page B4
combines Remote Commander, 
Scribble and MultiCursor into one 
application.
Scribble [Palm or WindowsCE] is 
a program where multiple people 
have independent cursors on the 
PC screen and can use their PDAs to 
point and scribble on the PC.
Remote Clipboard [Palm 
only], RemoteClipBook, and 
RemoteClipHack are Pebbles 
applications that cut and paste 
text between your PalmPilot 
and a Win95/NT PC, and can 
open hyperlinks from your Pilot 
on the PC.
WebAssistantis designed to make 
navigating the World Wide Web 
easier. Web Assistant stores a list of 
links from the web onto a central 
“hub” page for a user (such as a list 
of search results). Then a user can 
quickly switch between the links on 
the hub page without having to 
constantly be retracing steps.
Carnegie Mellon researchers and students once 
again sent their robotic soccer teams to compete in the 
World Robot Soccer Championships and Workshop in 
Melbourne, Australia. This year’s event, titled 
RoboCup 2000, was the fourth annual edition of the 
workshop to promote international research in artifi­
cial intelligence.
The primary focus of CMLTs entrants in RoboCup 
2000 was autonomous agents - a field of artificial 
intelligence where each robot acts as an individual, 
reacting to its environment and positioning itself to 
complete its objectives. Each robotic team member 
also attempts to predict the actions of its opponents as 
well as coordinate strategies with its teammates. The 
ultimate goal of the workshops is to develop artificial 
intelligence to the point where teams of robots could 
be used to fight fires, clean radioactive or toxic acci­
dent sites, disarm bombs, perform avalanche rescues, 
aid the disabled, and even explore outer space.
CMU entered three teams in this year’s competition, 
developed by Robotics Institute faculty member 
Tucker Balch and Computer Science Department pro­
fessor Manuela Veloso and their students. The three 
teams competed in the middle-size league, which fea­
tures teams of four robots on a field the size of a rac- 
quetball court, the Sony legged robot league in which 
all entrants must be Sony AIBO models, and the simu­
lation league, which features full-sized teams of 11 
robots.
Balch and students Rosemary Emery, Ashley 
Stroupe, Rande Shern and Kevin Sikorski devel­
oped the middle-size team, the CM Hammerheads 
2000. The focus of the team was to coordinate 
attacks via high-speed wireless communication 
between the team members. The Hammerheads 
qualified for the playoffs by winning three qualify­
ing matches, but were defeated in the first round 
by the eventual champions, an entry from 
Freiburg, Germany.
The Sony legged robot team, CM Pack’OO, was 
developed by students Scott Lenser and James Bruce, 
with Veloso working as an advisor. Research high­
lights from this team included highly developed 
object recognition and new algorithms to quickly 
determine the robots’ positions on the field. CM 
Pack’OO also performed well, losing only one match 
and finishing third out of 12 teams.
Veloso also advised the new simulation entry, ATT- 
CMUnited-2000, developed by student Patrick Riley, 
Peter Stone and David McAllester of ATT Labs - 
Research. The team placed third out of 34 competi­
tors.
Also competing in the simulation league was 
CMUnited-99, the same team that placed first in the 
competition last year. In the spirit of the research 
objectives that RoboCup is based on, CMUnited-99 
was made available for much of the year for other 
teams to practice against. A large portion of the
Review Corner: Fujifilm FinePix 40i
DIGITAL CAMERA, from page B4
It is compact < 
but It has no optical zoom. Images are 
sharp and generally in focus. However, 
some fine details are lost when printing 
to high-quality printers.
The camera comes with 
needed to get started immediately 
and one can learn the basic controls 
In seconds. However, there are a 
number of advanced controls and 
to fully appreciated these requires 
a reading of the manual.
Usability
It is easy to use. but the menu a 
be a bit cumbersome. The MP3 
player is not tightly Integrated.
Overall
Not only is the 
FinePix 40i is the 
’Swiss-army knife" 
of the digital 
cameras, but its 
compact polished 
aluminum case is 
slick and cute.
Courtesy mvw.robocup2000.or$
Robots such as these competed in a series of robotic, 
events that tested different parameters against other 
universities and organizations around the world, 
source code for the team was also made available to 
other teams, many of which used it as the basis for 
their own entrants. Despite the advanced knowledge 
of the CMUnited-99 design, only three teams were 
able to beat the squad, and the team finished fourth 
overall.
Professor named 
fellow of ACM
John Reynolds, professor in computer science, has 
been named a Fellow of the Association foj- 
Computing Machinery (ACM). Established by the. 
Council in 1993, the ACM Fellows program recognizes 
and honors outstanding ACM members for their, 
achievements in computer science, information tech-; 
nology and for their significant contributions to the 
mission of the ACM.
The ACM Fellows serve as distinguished coir 
leagues to whom the ACM and its current 80,000’ 
members look for guidance and leadership as the 
world of information technology evolves;- 
Reynolds's nomination is “[f]or research on the. 
use of types in programming languages, for clari-, 
fying the semantical basis for types, and for influ-, 
encing the design of modern programming lan-. 
guages.” Nine other computer science faculty are. 
ACM fellows, including Randy Bryant (1999), Ed- 
Clarke (1998), Takeo Kanade (1999), Jim Morris 
(2000), Mary Shaw (1996), Dana Scott (1994V 
Dan Siewiorek (1994), Herbert A. Simon (1994), 
and Jeannette Wing (1998). ,
ACM is the world’s oldest and largest educational 
and scientific computing society. Since 1947 ACM has, 
provided a forum for the exchange of information, 
ideas, and discoveries. Today, ACM serves a member­
ship of more than 80,000 computing professionals in, 
more than 100 countries in all areas of industry, acad-' 
emia, and government.
Compiled 
Matt Brun and Sriram Gollapalli'
D
nn
o
Value_________________________
Street Trice: >549. M5KP: S699
This camera Is somewhat expensive. While the images are 
impressive, they do not best ‘prosumer’ cameras that are cost only 
slightly more. Also, the MP3 player is limited in what it can do and 
the number of songs that can be played.

---------------------------------------------------

gjjöi rtfs byCarCn ee
(/ \0 i
Introducing the rich, smooth taste of 
New Bourbon-Flavored Copenhagen® Black.
. It satisfies.
BOURBON
FLAVORED
SMOKELESS
TOBACCO

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
13 November 2*00THE TARTANPage B7
The Legend of Bagger Vance throughly 
upsets critic on all filmmaking aspects
by Lindsay ClarkJunior Staffwriter
The Legend of Bagger Vance is this 
year’s movie that never should have 
been. Bad screenwriting, directing, and 
acting have all come together for a festi­
val of mediocrity. But I should only take 
one thing at a time. We’ll start with the 
screenwriting.
The movie starts out with a man hav­
ing a heart attack on a golf course. As he 
has his heart attack, he starts narrating 
the story, which he does for the rest of 
the movie. The narration is in the style 
of most period pieces dealing with 
World War I and the Great Depression 
like the movie Fried Green Tomatoes, but 
not nearly so well done. It seems more 
like one of those Hallmark holiday made 
for TV movies.
A good ten minutes is spent catching 
the viewer up on what happened to 
Rannulph Junuh (Matt Damon) before 
and during World War I using a mon­
tage of images and scenes with the old 
man narrating. Although I believe this 
montage was supposed to awaken some 
feelings of sympathy for the main char­
acter, the only feeling it awoke in this
FILM REVIEW
viewer was boredom. The constant nar­
ration isn’t the worst part of the script, 
however. The biggest fault of the movie 
is the fact that every line that the starry- 
eyed child Hardy Greaves utters is sup­
posed to be some life lesson in faith, or 
sobriety, or some other virtue. To make 
matters even worse, the narrator will 
recite the lesson the viewer was sup­
posed to learn from the last segment.
Now on to the directing. It is so heavy- 
handed that it completely defies any 
attempts at the willing suspension of 
disbelief. How disappointed I was when 
I found out that the director of this 
movie was the Academy Award-winning 
director, Robert Redford. But that was­
n’t his only sin. He was also one of the 
producers, which means that he was 
partially responsible for the approval of 
the horrible script touched on in the 
previous paragraph.
Casting on the movie was nearly as 
bad. I heard a rumor that Robert 
Redford was supposed to play Junuh, 
Matt Damon’s character, opposite 
Morgan Freeman as Bagger Vance, Will 
Smith’s character. Junuh is supposed to 
be middle-aged and Vance, as Junuh’s 
mentor, is presumably older, so it is 
strange that both of these characters are
played by men in their late twenties and 
early thirties. However, Damon man­
ages to pull off a competent perfor­
mance as Junuh and Smith, even 
though his performance is on again off 
again, shows the potential to be a seri-. 
ous actor.
Charlize Theron was the worst choice 
of the three main characters^ She fre­
quently, and distractingly, loses her 
accent in the middle of a scene. The 
executives working on this project 
should have paid less attention to looks 
and chosen someone more familiar with 
the part of a Southern belle. As a native 
of South Africa, Theron could only 
know the character of the Southern 
belle through the caricature of early 
Hollywood, such as Scarlett O’Hara, of 
whom she plays a very pale imitation.
All in all, this is probably the biggest 
waste of film to come out this year. In a 
year where the competition for that title 
includes The Patriot, Hollow Man, and 
What Lies Beneath, that is quite an 
achievement. Bagger Vance pulls it off 
effortlessly.
Final Grade: C-
Men of Honor overall delivery does 
not live up to its masterful scenes
FILM REVIEW
by Danny A. SilitongaStaffwriter
When the whole movie is 
greater than the suln of its scenes, 
then it i is a well-made film. 
Conversely, when Che sum of its 
scenes is greater than the whole 
movie, then it is not a wel^made 
movie. Each scene in Men of 
Honor is well crafted, and many 
touch the heart. The I superb 
underwater cinematography of 
Anthony Richmond, combined 
with the outstanding perfor­
mances by Cuba Gooding Jr. and 
Robert De Niro, coupled with the 
solemnly written script by Scott 
Marshall Smith should constitute 
a well-crafted film, if not a bril­
liant movie.
With high goals and high 
hopes, Man of Honor is an ambi­
tious film. It does not portray the 
lives of the characters at a specif­
ic setting, but it delineates their 
life stories at different places and 
over a course oil time, starting 
from the 1940s, to the 1950s, and 
well into the 1960s.
Although the audience is never 
rushed through the film, and the
three decades do serve a point, 
the purpose with this movie is 
thajjits ambition overshadows the 
mofie’s genuineness. The audi­
ence will quickly fall in love with 
thei pretty pictures and stories, 
ana1 forget that a movie is sup­
posed to be a work of art. But per­
haps this is. the movie’s intention.
la the 1940s, Carl Brashear, a 
diit-poor Kentucky sharecrop- 
pej’s son chooses the path less 
traveled when he joins the segre­
gated U.S. Navy, wherein he 
ercounters overwhelming preju­
dice, fear, and hatred and is 
forced to jump many hurdles. At 
th 2 Navy diving school in 
Bsyonne, N.J., his superior was 
ai old war hero with “more 
screws loose than a Studebaker.” 
Wijrse still, his obstacle course 
wis further obstructed by Master 
C lief Billy Sunday (Robert De 
Nro), an alcoholic determined to 
tfflch Brashear his place in the 
llitary scheme of things. But 
Brashear’s spirit and determina­
tion cannot be destroyed, and he 
Miraculously makes history by 
|coming the U.S. navy’s first 
rican-American deep-sea diver, 
nd in 1968, he also becomes the
first amputee in Navy history to 
be restored to active duty.
The movie intends for Carl 
Brashear’s life story to become its 
core substance, and the hurdles 
he overcomes, its art. However, 
the substance and art in this con­
text lack the most important ele­
ment of.any work of art: life. The 
depiction of Carl Brashear is 
designed to impress the audience 
and never to show. The movie 
spends too much time and too 
much effort building a certain 
atmosphere and making the audi­
ence feel a certain way to the 
extent that the movie has no 
room for life. In this movie, the 
sum of its scenes is greater than 
the whole movie. Hence when an 
outsider looks at the movie, it is 
no more than a rip-off drama. The 
best way to enjoy this movie, 
therefore, is to pretend that one is 
Carl Brashear. When or if one 
does so, he/she will leave the 
movie’s theater feeling spiritually 
charged and ready to fight the 
battle of life.
Final Grade: B
artwork on page by Justin Suissa/Art Edite
Adam Sandl 
again in his
;r comes through 
latest comedy
ILM REVIEW
by Debra Halpern
Staffwriter
What can Adam (Sandler do that y< u can’t? 
He can make a comedy about the d< vil’s son 
going to earth for the first time actual y funny. 
The worst concept for a movie one his heard 
this year was produced by Adam San Her and 
is surprisingly good from the very b iginning 
to the very end; Little Nicky is the nust-see 
comedy of the y^ar, as are all of Adan Sandler 
movies when they come out.
The movie begins with a man goir g to hell 
for being a peeping tom, or as he liki s to say, 
“The big birdie in the tree.” This st<rt intro­
duces the aud/ence to the fires of hi 11 — it’s 
more like a party from hell — which : not the 
most pleasant place. Little Nicky’s c taracter, 
played by Adam Sandler, is introdu:ed as a 
sweet kid listening to metal mu ic. The 
movie’s pace is fast and within the :irst few 
seconds of Sandler’s head banging, he gets 
summoned to meet with his dad (tl; devil), 
and his other two brothers. The reasc 1 for the 
meeting is the devil must retire afte 10,000 
years of work and pass the title to 0 e of his 
sons. His ,choice — not to retire — 1« aves his 
brothers very upset, to the point whfcre they 
decide to make their own hell on ealth. The 
two boys leave hell through the fir| gates, 
causing it to freeze and making Satan deterio­
rate. Now it is up to Little Nicky to bling his
brothers back by capturing them in an evil 
flask when they drink out of it.
As in every other Sandler movie, the goal is 
completed, but not without several obstacles 
in the way. First, Little Nicky must try to 
uncover the “evil within,” much like Happy 
Gilmore had to find “Happy Land.” Also, while 
watching the movie, one should count how 
many times Sandler must die to complete his 
task — quite a high number. And like all other 
Sandler movies there is the girl with whom 
Little Nicky falls in love.
Little Nicky with all these ingredients 
sounds like Sandler’s other movies; however it 
is a little more special than that. The charac­
ters are much more silly and fun in Little 
Nicky, more so than in any other Sandler 
movies. Nicky’s sidekick is a talking dog 
named Beefy— a beefier canine than the Taco 
Bell dog — who steals the movie several 
times, even though the concept is bordering 
on dumb. Little Nicky has the best cameos yet, 
by the likes of Chubs, from Happy Gilmore, 
Henry Winkler, Ozzy Osborne, along with 
many more that help provide the best ending. 
The movie is worth seeing. In fact why are you 
reading this article? Go see the movie, it won’t 
disappoint. A low expectation movie ended up 
fulfilling all the ingredients to a good laugh, 
at best, all the way through.
Final Grade: A-
Angels movie rates far from heavenly
FILM REVIEW
by Ish HarshawatEditor-in-Chief
Charlie’s Angels begins innocently 
enough. A la Mission impossible, it starts 
in a plane, and then moves from one 
exotic place to the next. At one point the 
viewer sees a high-tech room that must 
be penetrated invisibly and without a 
trace in order to retrieve information 
from a mainframe computer. This bla­
tant reference to Mission Impossible 
highlights the basic motif of Charlie’s 
Angels. The movie knowingly replicates 
some of the most popular features of 
recent hits such as The Matrix and 
recent James Bond movies.
For those of you who never watched 
the hit television series, the premise is 
simple: the “Angels” are an elite spy unit 
who work for a multi-millionaire named 
“Charlie.” The Angels, played by 
Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore, and 
Lucy Liu and their cohort Bosley, played 
by Bill Murray, receive missions from 
the mysterious Charlie. The mission of 
the particular movies revolves around 
global telecommunications and satellite 
technologies — but none of that really 
matters. The plot is thin and has been 
done in some form or the other in simi­
lar spy movies.
I think I understand why people go to
see this movie, and I think it has some­
thing to do with the women in it. The 
movie itself is successful in the same 
way all James Bond movies are success­
ful. It is just entertaining enough to put 
as many explosions, one-liners, and 
stunts as possible into the film. But the 
marketers of this movie have chosen to 
add the allure of the three female stars 
as an added bonus. The Angels are 
smart, I mean encyclopedic in their 
intelligence, much like their male spy 
counterparts. And of course they are 
sexy, which has a lot of drawing power 
for male audiences. In fact, I would ven­
ture to say that the Angels make use of 
all their assets when fighting injustice.
Bill Murray is funny in his own sort of 
deadpan way, but his whole routine 
seems to be a private joke between him 
and the audience. He knows this movie 
and its premise is ridiculous, which 
befits his character perfectly.
Natalie is somewhat reminiscent of 
Diaz’s befuddled, absent-minded Mary 
from There’s Something About Mary. In 
addition to trying to undue wrong, she 
spends half the movie trying to hook up 
with a guy she meets at some bar during 
one of her routine assignments. Liu 
plays the techy braniac Alex — the com­
puter hacker in the group. She lives in a 
trailer park by day, and is an interna­
tional spy by night. Finally, Barrymore’s
Dylan is, similar to the other Angels, 
confused about her love life but dedicat­
ed to her job. It amazes me how incon­
sistent and unbelievable these charac­
ters are.
Diaz, Barrymore, and Liu are talented 
actresses. It is no surprise then that they 
decided to sell their souls to this movie 
which adds absolutely nothing of good 
to society except a couple of hours of 
empty entertainment time to people's 
lives. This is what big movie stars have 
to do in Hollywood, as if it is a required 
résumé line item. The item reads: 
“Movie X — Made a ton of money at the 
box office. Had a stupid plot and no 
merit as a real piece of film.”
But people that go see this movie 
understand that, as do the actors that 
decide to do these movies. Charlie’s 
Angels is a forgettable movie by nature. 
If you go see it, you will have a hard 
time remembering why you liked it, or 
why it left you with a good feeling. The 
answer, however, is pretty simple. It 
filled your time well and gave you a few 
kicks. It did not make you think about 
the world around you but gave you an 
escape. For some movies, this all they 
need to achieve to be successful.
Final Grade: C+

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13, 2000
Mahler, Mariss make magnificent music
by Paul RichelmiStaffwriter
Mahler. That is all that is needed to 
be said to describe last week’s perfor­
mance. The performance of Gustav 
Mahler’s 3rd Symphony by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra under 
the direction of Mariss Jansons was the 
epitome of a Mahler performance. 
“Long,” “deep,” and “complex” all 
describe Mahler’s symphonies, but far 
understate the mastery of the perfor­
mance that took place at Heinz Hall last 
weekend.
Firstly, the symphony was scored for 
a much larger orchestra than usual. It 
requires two piccolos, four flutes, four 
oboes, an English horn, three clarinets, 
two E-flat clarinets, a bass clarinet, four 
bassoons, a contrabassoon, eight 
horns, four trumpets, a post horn, four 
trombones, a tuba, two tympani play­
ers, two harps, various percussion, and 
strings. (Reviewer note: There were 
nine horns playing, instead of the 
scored eight.) This massive orchestra 
was expanded more yet by the 
Children’s Festival Chorus and the 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh, led 
by Christine Jordanoff and Robert Page 
respectively. The score also calls for an 
alto solo, which mezzo-soprano 
Michelle DeYoung performed spectacu­
larly. The symphony is in six move­
CONCERT REVIEW
ments, and in two parts, the first part 
containing the first movement, and 
part two containing the remaining 
five.
This symphony tells a story; it is 
extremely descriptive and detailed. It 
is completely captivating, and it con­
sumes the listener for the full hour and 
forty-minute duration. Mariss 
Jansons’s musical genius explored and 
exposed the subtleties of the piece. He 
interpreted each movement different­
ly, yet still tied the entire work togeth­
er wonderfully. Jansons tells Mahler’s 
story exquisitely. Part one tells of 
something approaching, a coming of 
flowers, animals, and men. This epic 
first movement follows standard 
sonata format, but the exposition 
explores many extended themes, all of 
which were played perfectly by the 
orchestra. Each theme told a different 
story, a story that Jansons told with 
beautiful dynamic contrasts and inter- 
pretory devices. The most memorable 
themes were the quasi-Viennese waltz 
that appeared twice, and a war march. 
The waltz was played delicately by the 
first violin section, and the war march 
was played sensitively as well by the 
gargantuan wind and brass section. As 
the movement neared its end, the 
orchestra became even more dazzling, 
featuring a battling tympani bit and a 
definitive Wagner influence. Part one 
see SYMPHONY, page B9
courtesy of Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Mezzo soprano Michelle DeYoung sang last weekend during the perfor­
mance of Gustav Mahler’s 3rd Symphony at Heinz Hall.
BBMak attacks Mctropol
CONCERT REVIEW
by Jennifer SchauppJunior Staffwriter
It was “pop heaven” for the 
young crowd last Friday at 
Metropol. Britain’s very own pop 
heartthrobs, Christian Burns, 
Mark Berry, and Ste McNally, oth­
erwise known as BBMak, strolled 
into town for a B-94 and a Kiss FM 
sponsored concert event. Melanie 
Taylor, a B-94 disc jockey, played 
MC for the night, revving up the 
energy of the crowd, which con­
sisted mostly of adolescent 
females. Yet Taylor did not have 
to work too hard, for the audience 
was already in jubilant spirits, 
holding up heart-shaped signs 
and chanting “BBMak, BBMak” 
during the various intermissions.
The first two performances fea­
tured up-and-coming artists who 
sampled only a few songs each. 
Lugo, the 15-year-old “singing 
and dancing sensation,” strutted 
onto the stage with smooth moves 
like those of Michael Jackson, and 
scantily clad female dancers wear­
ing t-shirts that boldly said, 
“BOOM,” on the front accompa­
nied him. The sensual aura sur­
rounding his voice and appear­
ance evoked excessive screams 
from the audience. Next, three 
teenage girls from different coun­
tries, the Urted States, the 
Ukraine and Iierto Rico, com­
prised the grou Solid Harmonie. 
Eliciting suppoj from the females 
in the crowd folheir songs about 
being “bad girlstway from daddy” 
and having dea-end crushes, the 
girls pranced abund the stage as 
three friends hiring a grand, old 
time.
The third actjcheduled for the 
evening playedi longer set than 
the prior perfomers did and also 
had a full ban accompany her. 
The 19-year-<id singer/song- 
writer/guitarisj Jessica Riddle, 
featured songs from her debut 
album, Key of cMinor, including 
“Symphony,” a tune gaining air­
time on variou Pittsburgh radio 
stations. She alo shared with the 
audience a sojg she composed 
only six days bfore the concert. 
During her prformance, the 
audience becaae subdued, and 
unfortunately, tiddle’s voice was 
barely audible b the majority of 
the people. O'erall, though, she 
projected muh more mature 
sounds and thaies than her pre­
decessors did.
At last, the jiungry audience 
longing for a tiste of the “Mak” 
got their wist The boys of 
BBMak, dresseij in preppy-casual 
fashion, got rigjt into action with 
BB/1AK, see page B9
New Music
Album delivers punchlines with punch
Artist: Grand Buffet 
Title: Sparkle Classic 
Label: Brickbrain
Final Grade: B+
by Justin SuissaArt Editor
With their intense alternative hip-hop sound, 
Grand Buffet scores big with their debut album 
Sparkle Classic. The duo is comprised of Lord Grunge 
and Grape-A-Don who start the festivities off with 
“Real Cool,” a song where they threaten to smash 
your TV. The pair’s music talks about everyday life
with a wit that is hard to find in music today. The 
•humorous and lighthearted aspect of their lyrics is 
really what separates this album from similar efforts. 
The group talks about everything from He-Man to 
Mrs. Fields’s Cookies. At a recent show at the 
Millvale Industrial Theatre, Grand Buffet’s Lord 
Grunge was talking candidly about his new ’stache, a 
beautiful mustache that made him a “badass.” While 
the album loses some of the humor of the live show 
songs like “Candy Bars,” it really captures the 
essence of the group.
It really is what the group raps about that shows 
their sense of humor. With lines such as, “I like candy 
bars, and baseball cards, and superstars,” you can’t 
take Grand Buffet all that seriously, and you should­
n’t. However, they do manage to get something more 
across than what happened to them at Chuck E. 
Cheese. After listening to the album a couple of times
I haven’t quite figured out what that is, but there is 
substance behind their music. However, even with 
the best lyrics and rapping, without solid music this 
album would falter.
Grand Buffet has a good rhythm, and besides their 
lyrics, their hip-hop music has a great sound reminis­
cent of some of the best Super Nintendo video 
games. Midway through the album, there are points 
where it drags a little, but overall it’s excellent. 
Towards the end of Sparkle Classic, Grand Buffet 
picks it up again with “You’re On Fire,” which is prob­
ably the best song on the album. Coming in at slight­
ly under thirty minutes, the group left me wanting to 
hear just a little more, but the short length of the 
songs is perfectly suited for their style of music. In 
addition, the sound quality of the CD seemed a little 
muted at times, but it really isn’t all that noticeable, 
and even gives it a little character. Even if you don’t 
like hip-hop or rap, the tongue-in-cheek aspect of 
Grand Buffet’s music alone makes them worth listen­
ing to.
Rugrat sequel sounds second-rate
Artist: Various Artists 
Title: Rugrats in Paris
Original Soundtrack 
Label: Maverick
Final Grade: C-
by Ryan HamiltonStaffwriter
Being the soundtrack to a sequel of a big screen 
adaptation of a mildly popular, children’s show, 
Rugrats in Paris: The Movie has a lot to prove if it’s
going to claim any sort of relevance. It’s not surpris­
ing then, that it fails. What is surprising is the amount 
of weirdness the soundtrack goes through to get 
there.
It starts off innocuously enough, with standard- 
fare fluffy, urban-pop songs from Jessica Simpson 
and TLC’s T-Boz about love and playing outside, a 
. boy band offering from No Authority, and even the 
Baha Men’s ubiquitous hit “Who Let the Dogs Out?” 
From there, though, things quickly become bewil­
dering.
Sinead O’Connor’s talent and her producer Wyclef 
Jean fail to overcome the mediocrity of “When You 
Love.” Ex-Spice Girl Geri Halliwell offers up a campy 
cover of “These Boots are Made For Walkin.’” Isaac 
Hayes offers his vocal talents to “Chuckie Chan 
(Martial Arts Expert of Reptarland),” but no one can 
figure out why. Even Cyndi Lauper gives it a go, with 
her surprisingly delightful “I Want A Mom That Will 
Last Forever.” I’d ask you to take a moment to look 
over those names again and then ask yourself “Why?” 
And let me know if you arrive at an answer. The 
album rounds out with a few interesting tracks in 
French, presumably to pay homage to the movies set­
ting, and, um, “Bad Girls,” by, erm, Angelica & the 
Sumos.
It’s highly uncertain whom this album is meant to 
appeal to. Younger teenagers who might enjoy the 
“fresh” urban sounds of the first half would definitely 
be turned off by the children-themed efforts of the 
second and, besides, wouldn’t be caught dead with 
the album on their shelves. Fans of the Rugrats may 
find a few tracks on here appealing, but would have 
to wade through quite a bit of indistinguishable 
dance-pop that they probably didn’t sign on for. So if 
you happen to be a 13-year-old who never got over 
her Nickelodeon stage and is not too proud to hide it, 
this album is perfect for you. Otherwise, stay away.
Ladies Man soundtrack woos lady critic
Artist: Various 
Title: The Ladies Man
Original Soundtrack 
Label: Dreamworks
Final Grade: A
by Kristin LalaCopy Staff
If a male played The Ladies Man soundtrack for his 
would-be girlfriend in a desperate dating attempt to 
get lucky, he quite possibly may be as successful as the 
album title implies.
Okay, so it’s not going to win any Grammy awards. 
You probably wouldn’t want to listen to it in the car 
with your grandmother, either. However, The Ladies 
Man soundtrack does a surprisingly good job in its 
compilation of mostly slow, tantalizingly danceable 
songs. From Teddy Pendergrass’s seductive “Turn off 
the Lights” and Johnny Gill’s “Close the Door” to the 
more upbeat A1 Green’s “Let’s Stay Together,” the
album definitely has possibilities, many of which are 
unmentiGnable in this review. Awvww, yeah. You can 
get your groove on.
Of course, at this point, if you a e familiar with the 
origins of this particular music collection, you may be 
having some legitimate doubts The Ladies Man 
Original Soundtrack, from the ijiovie of the same 
name, is based on Tim Meadow’s [Leon Phelps” char­
acter in Saturday Night Live skits . In the movie, Leon 
Phelps, a self-professed connoisseur of the female of 
our specie^ hosts a radio show cfevoted to discussing 
love’s littlequirks. On the side, Phelps spends most of 
his time tr/ing to live up to his Infamous name with 
several menbers of the opposite sex. Seeing as some 
newer skit: tend to make me feel that SNL has run 
about 25 ytars too long, I was admittedly a bit reluc­
tant to revfew this soundtrack.,I am a lady however, 
and as a lacy, who interacts with men who’may want 
to be the kind of man whom ladies consider to be a 
“ladies mar,” I put such negative feelings aside and 
was pleasantly surprised during my review. Sound 
confusing? Well, be prepared: amidst the rhythmic 
melodies and soulful tunes: are iittle snippets of Leon 
Phelps’ hurrorous romantic wisdom. In one segment, 
for instance to the background of soft, tender har­
monies, Leon philosophizes on-air regarding the 
nature of lore, comparing it to “the sweetest flower” 
and finally ¡wistfully concluding, “Is not love not 
unlike the unlikely not it is unlike it to?”
The Ladiei Man soundtrack is unexpectedly enjoy­
able. The mjsic has a definite soulful feel to it, remi­
niscent of older seductive songs such as Marvin 
Gaye’s “Let’sGet it On.” The selections flow extreme­
ly well together, with short instrumental intros scat­
tered throughout the album (note: do not be turned 
off by the tilles of composer Marcus Miller’s tracks, 
such as “Have You Ever Had Sex?” or “Houseboat 
Bonin’ “). Like the movie, the soundtrack seems to 
have been wcefully overlooked by man, and is deserv­
ing of a listen. You never know: slip it on at just the 
right moment and it may even help you with the 
ladies.New label returns old skacore sound
Artist: Less Than Jake 
Title: Borders & Boundaries 
Label: Fat Wreck Chords
Final Grade: A-
by Balaji SarpeshkarCopy Manager
Johnny Quest was wrong.
Unlike what the villain from the song “Johnny Quest 
Thinks We’re Sellouts” said, Less Than Jake have not 
sold out. With the release of their newest album, 
Borders & Boundaries, Less Than Jake have jumped 
ship from Capitol Records to Fat Wreck Chords, leaving 
little doubt that they are indeed “doing it for the fans.” 
However, while changing labels, the six-piece ska-
punk group frpm Gainesville, Florida have stuck to the. 
formula that las made their other releases such huge 
hits: hard punk rock mixed with some sweet horns and 
a touch of metal. Another constant between albums is 
that the lyrics tend to revolve around a few simple 
themes: strunf-out adolescents and small-town bore­
dom, to name a couple.
Right from the get-go, Borders gets to work provid­
ing you with some old-school punk rock. The first 
track, “Magnetic North,” starts slowly, with just 
enough energy to let you know you’re in for more. 
Then, in “Kehqs” and “Suburban Myth,” you’re hit with 
some straight-tip punk, with some chords (eerily) rem­
iniscent of Dop/cie-era Green Day (yes, I said Green 
Day). This pre|ty much sets the tone for the rest of the 
album, but the.:e are a couple of exceptions.
While there jsn’t a song on this album that could be 
construed as vjhiny, “Look What Happened” seems to 
come pretty close. This is as close as you could get to a 
slow song, and almost seems to scream “radio play.” 
However, this find “Last Hour of the Last Day of Work” 
serve to slow things down a little, so you’re not over­
whelmed the yhole way through.
Another thijig that pops up on Less Than Jake 
albums is the i umber of references to random people. 
These are usualyjust people that members of the band 
. song. For example, in “Mr. Chevy 
ejistener is treated to a tale about a child­
hood acquaintance, Mark Cruce. And in “Pete Jackson 
is Getting Married,” ...^well, this one’s pretty obvious, 
right?
The only re 1 problem I had with this album is the 
number of tines I had to listen to it before I was; 
hooked. I mean, Losing Streak had me within two times 
through, but this album took me almost four. Of 
course, this is l’t a real problem. Borders & Boundaries 
is a great albpm, and even if you’re not a hard-core 
punk rocker, mere’s sure to be something for you on' 
this disc.
felt warrantee 
Celebrity,” the

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13, 2000Bg
Momo Starbuck can cure schoolwork blues
Momo Starbuck
Well, kiddies. I would promise not to mention 
that one thing that’s been going on in the news, but 
I don’t want to. You see, Momo has a bone to pick 
— a big elephant, election-size bone at that.
Scorpio
(October 24 - November 21)
It’s your birthday and you can cry if you want 
to, cry if you want to, cry if you want to. Momo 
would cry too if she were as old as you. You’re 
getting old, Scorp. No one would elect you. Gore 
would cry too.
Sagittarius
(November 22 - December 21)
I blame this whole election thing on you. If it 
weren’t for you and your damn grandparents, we 
would have a president and your toothless grand­
pa wouldn’t be on the news nightly telling us that 
he thought he was voting for Gore, but was actu­
ally voting for Buchanan. Your grandparents are 
the reason this country sucks! Browne told me so 
himself. ;
Capricorn
(December 22 - January 19)
Check the circle to the right of the name you 
would like to vote for.
Momo -> 0 <-Momo
Momo -> 0 <-Momo
Momo -> 0 <- Momo
Guess you’re screwed. Gore thought so.
HOROSCOPES
Aquarius
(January 20 - February 18)
Momo just wants you to know, Aqui, that 
Momo has always had a special place in her heart 
for you. That being said, Momo would like to tell 
a little story about your kind. Your good ol’ pal 
Momo was shopping in the discount mall, and 
having a fine time putting together a tantalizing 
outfit for my hot date that evening. I had picked 
out red as the color of the night, with pleather 
skirt to match the velvet top, when your skanka- 
licious self barged in and stole the last red 
pleather skirt in the joint. You’re a witch, 
Lieberman agrees.
Pisces
(February 19 - March 20)
Momo has nothing to say to you. Go hide your­
self in a big fluffy bush or something. Avoid yel­
low buildings, ones made with concrete, and, oh 
yeah, the streets. If Momo sees you out, she 
reserves the right to let the dogs out. Nader has a 
whole pack of Dobermans waiting for my use.
Aries
(March 21 - April 19),
I really don’t know what to do with you, Aries. 
Momo has tried to tell you again and again, you 
will not be magically struck with intelligence in 
the next forty years; Suck it up. And next time 
don’t bother voting — even those little old ladies 
in Palm Beach are afraid to be associated with 
you. Buchanan has told me so himself.
Taurus
(April 20 - May 20)
Momo was out on the town last night, wearing 
what most called a superb combo of sequins and 
fringe, when she saw a trampalicious girl that 
had your name all over her. Granted she was 
classier than the usual skanks you run with, she 
had that je ne sais quoi, that potpourri look to her. 
You get on that before the guy with the beer gut 
and tapered, stonewashed jeans gets her. You’re 
better than that; at least your jeans aren’t 
stonewashed. Cheney would agree.
Gemini
(May21-June 20)
Well, Gem, I have to say. I’m ashamed of you. 
Not voting is shameful, but you, you bring new 
meaning to the word selfish. Momo told you 
those things in strict confidence, and just because 
you find it amusing to flaunt the latest porn 
industry magazine — Cexy Cellulite — doesn’t 
mean you have to wave around Momo’s cauli­
flower thighs all over town. You’re so shameful, 
not even Buchanan will talk to you now.
Cancer
(June 21-July 22)
Here’s a little poem the recent election inspired 
in me. It’s just for you Cancer because, really, 
what else do you have to live for?
Roses are red,
Here’s a little clue:
Flags are red, white and blue
And I’m coming for you.
(Hey, I never said I was Shakespeare) Sleep 
tight, Lieberman would want you to.
Leo
(July 23 - August 22)
Everyone loves you Leo. You are the light that 
enters into our dreary lives (or Momo’s red light­
ed one). You are the green in the leaves, the blue 
in the sky, the red of the brick, the brown in the 
poo, the.... Wait, I’m lying. LaDuke made me do 
it.
Virgo
(Aug. 23 - Sept. 22)
It’s your time Virg. You should be living the 
life, not sitting at home doing God knows what in 
that hell hole you call a home. Get out, see the 
world, wear fish net stockings — and not from 
the comfort of your own Internet connection. 
Loser! (Nader said that, not your good old pal, 
Momo.)
Libra
(September 23 - October 23)
So you wanna be a millionaire? You still won’t 
have as much money as Bush alone had to spend 
on his campaign. My advice? Get a day job. Bush 
wouldn’t want the competition.
British boy band creates 
“sophisticated” teen pop
BBMak, page B8
“I’m Not in Love.” Their songs, 
ranging from slow to peppy, from 
playful to serious, embraced the 
theme of love lost and love 
gained, a thread prevalent 
throughout their debut CD, 
Sooner or Later. Though not a 
dancing act like many of their 
contemporaries, like £N Sync or 
the Backstreet Boys, the boys of 
BBMak have developed a unique 
style of their own as writers of 
their songs and as guitarists. 
Their sophistication pervaded the 
room like freshly baked cookies 
on Christmas Eve. Not only the 
girls but also the guys Were drawn 
like magnets to BBMak’s lush 
sound and almost angelic voices.
Some highlights included their 
cover of “More Than Words” from 
the early ’90s rock group 
Extreme, the brief instrumental 
piece in which Mark played a 
miniature set of bagpipes and the 
enthusiastic audience participa­
tion in the hit, “Back Here.”
With the never-ceasing ear- 
piecing squeals and with the toss­
ing of roses onto the stage, it was 
quite evident that BBMak was 
loved. It was also evident that 
through BBMak’s kind, witty 
remarks and passionate playing 
and singing, they returned the 
audience’s love. All in all, it was 
the kind of night that defined the 
meaning of “good, old-fashioned, 
clean fun.”
Jansons succeeds again
SYMPHONY, from page B8 
was nothing short of amazing. 
However, there were still five 
movements left.
Part two brought out the two 
choirs, the children’s choir in red 
and the Mendelssohn choir in 
black. The subtitle of the second 
movement is “What the Flowers 
Told Me.” The pastoral airs in the 
movement are not to be mistaken; 
Mahler’s epic story continues with 
nature here. The harp flourishes 
throughout the movement and the 
wistful violin parts were mar­
velous. Jansons’s genius was 
apparent in this movement as well. 
His lightest touch perfectly bal­
anced the winds and the strings, 
and set the brass in the back­
ground. As always, the wonderful 
solo capability of concertmaster 
Andres Cardenes was apparent in 
this piece. His solo interludes in 
the piece were always charming, 
and added much character.
The choirs entered in the next 
movement, with exceptional clari­
ty. Through the words of the choir 
and the orchestral part, Mahler 
was telling of something both pen­
sive and timid, yet wanting to be 
exuberant and carefree at the same 
time. The post horn was the focus 
of the third movement, principally 
Portraying the above emotions.
DeYoung appeared for the next 
movement, subtitled “What Man 
Tells Me.” Singing in German, 
Mahler’s native language, she dis­
played her pristine clarity, intona­
tion, and articulation. In a minor 
key, she sang of despair and heart­
break, being sofdy accompanied 
by the orchestra. The movement 
was engulfing, as was the rest of 
Piece, but the voice of Ms.
DeYoung and the orchestra has a 
certain, indefinable, and mesmer­
izing quality.
Heading directly into the next 
movement, the choirs joined 
DeYoung and the orchestra in 
“What the Angels Tell Me,” the 
subtitle of the fifth movement. 
This short movement featured a 
dialogue between choir and alto, 
which again was controlled mas­
terfully by Jansons. The children, 
singing a bell part, accompanied 
the women’s choir and DeYoung 
without fail. This 'movement led 
right into the last movement, subti­
ded, “What Love Told Me.”
This movement’s principal 
themes were introduced by the 
strings, proving that their lyrical 
playing skills are unmatched. The 
music that Mahler wrote for this 
movement was by far the deepest 
and most engulfing in the piece. 
Mahler said that he wrote this 
movement about the love of God, 
and a very divine sense is apparent 
in the movement. It has been said 
that the violin is the voice of God, 
this movement proves that state­
ment. The first violin part actually 
is able to speak in this movement, 
and along with a fabulous horn 
section, they send a message to the 
listener. It was Mahler’s wish that 
each listener finds out on his own, 
and I highly suggest that you do so. 
Mahler’s third symphony is a 
deeply moving piece, one that is 
capable of totally consuming the 
listener. Jansons’s divine interpre­
tation would lead one to believe 
that he is in the ranks of masters of 
Mahler. DeYoung took many of the 
bows during the extended thun­
derous applause, but it was 
Jansons who truly deserved them.
.courtesy of Sub Pop Records
The Grifters are performing this Saturday at 10:30 pm in the Connan Room.See back-to-back rock 
shows this Saturday
PITTSBURGH, from page B12 
Science in North Side running a 
line-up of “laser” music 
shows. The scary news is that I 
didn’t hear the above quote during 
the show but during my Intro to 
History class. You can choose from 
“Laser” Pop Rox at 9 pm, (featuring 
“Laser” Britney Spears and “Laser” 
Mandy Moore among others), 
“Laser” Grateful Dead at 10 pm, 
“Laser” KISS at 11 pm, and finally 
“Laser” Pink Floyd’s The Wall 2000 
at midnight. Tickets for each show 
are $8. And just think where would 
we be without this exciting “Laser” 
technology if it weren’t for Dr. Evil?
• Even if Cosmo Kramer tar­
nished the image of the coat when 
he was caught pimping in a 
Seinfeld episode, Joseph and the 
Amazing Technicolor
Dreamcoat is still one of 
America’s favorite musicals of all 
time. You can catch it at the 
Saltworks Theatre in Wexford this 
Friday at 7:30 pm and Saturday at
2 pm and 7:30 pm. For more infor­
mation, call 394-3353.
• In case you went to the Kappa 
Kappa Gong Show with ticket in 
hand only to discover Rangos ball­
room full of CS majors dancing and 
prancing around, don’t worry, you 
had the right date, time, and loca­
tion. Due to a room scheduling 
conflict, the SCS “Log-In Ball” was 
held in place of the Gong Show 
that night. But don’t despair, the 
Kappa Kappa Gong Show has been 
rescheduled to Sunday the 19th in 
Rangos Ballroom from 1 to 3 pm. 
Tickets are $5 in advance and $7 at 
the door.
• This Saturday at Club Laga,
one of modern rock’s finest musi­
cal acts to emerge from Pittsburgh 
will be performing: Don
Caballero. Even though they 
have played on campus last spring
and the fall of 1997, they, spend a 
lot of their time touring around the 
country. Their touring efforts are 
especially large this fall since they 
are promoting the release of 
American Don, a work surely to be 
one among the best rock albums of 
2000. One of their keys to success 
lies in Damon Che, their insanely 
talented drummer, who could have 
made Keith Moon go even crazier. 
The show begins at 7 pm, with 
doors opening at 6:30 pm. Tickets 
are $7 in advance and $8 at the 
door.
° Because the exceptional Don 
Cab is playing at Laga this 
Saturday, the Laga Rule will be tak­
ing effect: the better the band, the 
shorter their set can be. It seems 
like no matter how big or talented 
the musical act is, there is always 
some kind of dance party or some­
thing that is actually more impor­
tant and absolutely has to be start­
ed on schedule following the band. 
I once even saw the security guys 
start taking apart a band’s set 
while they were still performing 
their last song!
Anyway, I digress. The Don Cab 
show is sure to end relatively early 
for you crazy Pittsburgh night 
owls. But if you want some more 
rock, head over to the Connan 
Room of the University Center to 
see The Grifters at 10:30 pm. 
Their show is specially timed so 
you can see them after Don Cab is 
finished. You may have grown up 
with these guys during the mid- 
90s when they had the popularity 
and the feel of the Rolling Stones 
during the booming lo-fi, indie- 
rock era back then. Now is your 
chance to finally see them. And the 
best part of all is that their perfor­
mance is free; as long as you’re a 
CMU student, of course. Catch my 
grift? (Get it?)
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Kadosh
Thursday, November 16
From acclaimed Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai comes this 
probing look at life in a scarily ultraorthodox Jewish society. 
Much of the movie focuses on women and the subservient, 
many would say unfair, role they play in traditional religions 
like this one. One man sets the tone for the film early on by 
solemnly praying “Thank God for not making me a woman,” 
and much of the film pits this silliness against today’s modern 
capitalist society.
I may have made a few comments in this space in the past 
that weren’t exactly pro-woman regarding their intelligence, 
etc., but at least I never enforce or encourage laws that make 
them second-class citizens. You know, I’m interested in know­
ing where major religions get their ridiculous oddball beliefs 
sometimes. An easily recognizable example is Catholics not 
eating meat on Friday. I can’t picture God waking up one 
morning and randomly thinking, “That’s it. No more meat on 
Friday for these fools.” I also can’t picture any sort of deity 
wanting people to sacrifice animals to him or her. Clearly if 
he/she made the earth, then he/she made the soon-to-be-dead 
animals too, and it’s probably going to piss him/her right off if 
people kill creatures for no reason and blame it on him/her. If 
I were God I sure as hell wouldn’t want that — I’d much rather 
have people attributing three point shots and quality rock 
music to me. And no, I don’t mean music like Christian rock — 
that’s why I put the word “quality” in.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
The Cell
Friday, November 17
Continuing “Bad Treatment of Chicks” weekend is The Cell, 
a psychological thriller about a child psychologist (Jennifer 
Lopez) who travels into the mind of a serial killer (Vincent 
D’Onofrio) who kills women by drowning them in glass cells. 
Directed by music video veteran Tarsem Singh, the stunning 
visual imagery vividly depicts this man’s violent, twisted, dis­
turbed mind.
I’m amazed by the minds of insane and/or deranged people 
like this film’s antagonist. Sure, my brain barely functions 
above a third-grade level, but at least it has the basic tenets of 
being not criminally insane wired in, like “don’t kill people,” 
“don’t feed rum to infants,” and “wave ‘thank you’ to drivers 
who let you into traffic.” I can even see letting those first two 
slide, but I can’t stand people who don’t give the courtesy 
wave. Back in Ohio, where I’m from, we may not have your 
fancy modern “computers” or “fax machines” or “butter 
churns,” but at least we know how to drive a stupid car.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
Scary Movie
Saturday, November 18
Probably the sleeper hit of the summer was this Wayans 
brother-directed (Keenen Ivory) and scripted (Marlon and 
Shawn) spoof of Scream and its ilk. Scary Movie stars a cast of 
relative unknowns, like newcomer Anna Faris, along with stars 
like Shannon Elizabeth and Carmen Electra. (Think of your 
own breast-related joke - I’m fresh out.)
I had planned to film a movie with this exact same title, but 
mine was going to be a documentary about drivers in 
Pittsburgh. I mean, what the hell is wrong with people in this 
city? Somewhere in the Pittsburgh City Blue Laws it must say 
“Ordinance 3.4.1.4.4.2: Make a left turn absolutely whenever 
you want to, regardless of the destinations of other drivers or 
the color displayed on the traffic signal.” Just once I’d like to 
just purposely smack into some idiot who turns left in front of 
me when I’m going straight and just keep slamming her with 
my car until they have to use the Jaws of Life to pry my foot off 
of the gas pedal, after which I’ll kick her with my left foot and 
break her glasses, if she has any. Watch out.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Them!
Sunday, November 19
As far as I can discern, people in the 1950s pretty much only 
liked three things: driving comically big cars, eating unhealthy 
food, and watching movies about giant insects. Although the 
1954 black and white classic Them! is devoid of Edsels and 
cheeseburgers, it does have a lot of enormous ants and, like 
pretty much any giant mutated ant you’re going to meet, they 
are not happy with you or any of your friends.
Boy, was censorship strange 50 years ago. Sure, you could 
make movies about huge killer bugs, but good luck trying to 
show Elvis below the waist or Ozzie and Harriet sleeping in the 
same bed. I’m not even going to try to analyze what these poli­
cies must have led America’s youth to think about sex; the pop­
ulation didn’t vanish so let’s leave it at that. Seriously, though, 
censorship hasn’t really advanced much at all since then. Just 
last week, the features editor of a Texas newspaper was fired 
for running a stock press photo of Deftones frontman Chino 
Moreno wearing a shirt bearing the logo of the company Fuct. 
Fuct isn’t even a word, for the record. Even worse is the fact 
that I just got fired for including that in my column. Texas 
sucks.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

Lite itJ 
44C LU
©Zooo
rEHUst 
Has mo 
MEAlJlrOG.
POUTVCS
HAve Vaj?y Scott AdamsLIP£ W(\5 
ivio MEftiJwe.
NICE SIGN. DOES 
IT KEEP AWAY THE 
UNDESIRABLES?
THIS SIGN IS MY 
PASSPORT TO 
CUBICLE TRAN­
QUILLITY.
I WONDER WHY 
NO ONE EVER 
THOUGHT OF IT 
BEFORE.
w\V) raVMrs
&OOK COLLECTION!
ms fJo
MHsTGoPwes 
Uft/t too
LJ,dlNA­x
My PtorrH
HAÇ MO 
M&ArOXrJß.
IT'S TOO BORING 
TUST BEING THE 
DIRECTOR OF 
INFORMATION, 
OPERATIONS AND 
TECHNOLOGY.
IF ONLY 
THERE 
WERE AN 
EASY WAY 
TO
REMEMBER
THAT.
FROM 
NOW ON 
CALL ME 
THE
E-DIOT.
YOU SHOULD PUT AN 
“E-" IN FRONT OF 
YOUR TITLE.
SOW!
M6AWW6!
TH6 OiOWenSÇ 
HAS rtO MEftOltOG
SOMETIMES I LIKE 
TO SIT QUIETLY AND 
THINK UP IDEAS.
AND DON’T BE 
LIMITED BY 
SOCIETY'S 
EXPECTATION 
THAT YOU BE 
INTERESTING.
YOU CAN 
COMPENSATE 
FOR YOUR LACK 
OF KNOWLEDGE 
BY TALKING 
TOO MUCH.
NOTHING 
GOOD CAN 
COME FROM 
THAT.
HAVE YOU BEEN 
DOMINATING 
GOLF EVENTS?
I'M LEARNING 
TO GOLF, [------NOW I WON'T BE 
EXCLUDED FROM 
ALL THE MALE- 
DOMINATED GOLF 
n. EVENTS.
SOMETIMES 
I CAN MAKE 
THEM MISS 
PUTTS ON TV
YOU SEXIST zm!
I WILL BURN YOUR VILLAGE AMD MAKE 
SLAVE5 OF YOUR 
CHILDREN \/J%_——^ ' * ¡031 %
IT'S SHORT 
FOR ATTILA 
THE HUN. 
EVERYONE 
CALLS YOU 
THAT.
THAT
SEEMS
HARSHTHANKS
HUN.
I DECLARE NEXT 
FRIDAY TO BE 
"HAWAIIAN SHIRT 
DAY."
HEY, YOU'RE 
DISGUISING 
PUNISHMENTS 
AS PERKSI
THEY'RE 
ON TO USDID YOU 
TRY THE 
FAKE 
SMILE?
ARC nature- Carexs
jslater@aiidrew.cniu.eduJslater@aiidmv.cnni.
Hey, how was I supposed 
I i. }• I fcffow there was a PE TA 
H irally on die cut?1 ou Aid whail V , „. j ,.. ffl| n
Settle dowi, man. 
I Jordan said he'd 
take care of It.
Well who the Hell ? 
is doing Fence this 
week then??
Did you know it's J's 21st 
birthday on Tuesday?Well, for instance, the fact that 
he's been donating plasma the 
last few weeks to get money 
^ for alcohol was 
a blt of a give-away, n
.. and I give great backrubsl 
So remember ladies, 
that number once again is 
S. 86 DA MAN.
No, but I noticed the signs.Actually, yeali I did.
mucK
THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 13, 2000
T nI!
hate monkeys. They’re dirty, they’re smelly, they’re 
loud, and they simply won’t flush down a toilet no mat- 
BilfelTralBl 8Pi ¡5 ' ter ^ow many times I try. Does anybody know how to get
IIiJU rid of a monkey? I’ve got maybe three dozen; the suckers!
breed like you wouldn’t believe. Releasing them into the
bring on the monkeys! wild doesn’t work, either; they just come back and eat my I
— Fritos. Maybe I’ll try giving them as Christmas presents.

---------------------------------------------------

Over The Hedge
YOU DON’T SEEM TOO EXCITED THIS ELECTION, RJ.
I’M A ONE-ISSUE RACCOON.I pres nr thers et Na iolccuyYOU DON’T'
The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
Evil Design Can Change The World (easier than good)
by: James Kenney (email: jpkenney@andrew.cmu.edu)
iRfPUBIICftNI
IOEMOCRMICI...AMPtiAOER UlTHS% AHP BUCHANAN MTH1% ANO...SANI fi / THE SQUIRREL 
M7H .000033*...
OKAY...NOW
iSQCISUST)
DAVID MdKTMOtDS ntxm MurrULHOllIS mmnm
(CONSIIlUtlO.Nl 
HOWARD PHtll»S j.pimmiuBa
SHOULP’VE VOTED FOR MYSELF/
IWOflXlRSWORlDI U0S1CA MO0SÍHEAO r.ltmu UPtYA rantOHHHHHA SO CLOSE.isooAtisr RayFgyfT
JMItSHAEWS m«.t
MAKS AUK IMfftt <ar»««niSWfP
tNATUHAtlAWl
I JOHN HACHIK n, 
MAT GOtOMABtB-
Design can change the world, look here 
at the above ballot. It is an example of 
EVIL design. Because of the deceptive 
layout of the type, eager Democratic 
Floridians accidentally voted for an 
undesired candidate. In most cases, 
such small evil has no influence.
I realized since the recent election 2k 
controversy is still as exciting as a sports 
game, I can capitalise on that and go 
out drinking earlier, keep in mind it's 
thursday 11/9 now, but not now, now is 
whenever you read this, mind boggling. 
Point being, my grandma lives in Florida.
TRASHSNACK.THROW IT BACK,
WHAT IS IT? WHAT 3 IS ITT i
A COOKIE/ CREME-FILLED/ AND IT’S AWOPPERU
IT STARTS OUT WITH AN APPLE,AND MAYBE A PEAR, AND PRETTY SOON YOU’VE GOT . ORANGES DRIVING OUT ALL THE....
LOW SUGAR.FAT FREE. LOOKS LV^i A KEEPER, BUT...CRAFTYDEVILS.
This greater force is obviously the 
religious monkey, master of evil design 
and even more evil prayer. Instead of 
counting votes, we must don chainmail 
armor and curved swords, to do battle 
with the religious monkey in his horrible 
tower of confusing and evil typography.
I think this election is more about 
evil design, than it is about presidents 
or America. Some greater force has set 
up such a bizarre situation in which the 
smallest portion of a sytem actually will 
decide the outcome of one of the largest 
systems existing in the world today.
YOU THROWING AWAY YOUR STASH? tr
(
GEE, I FORGOT HOW YUMMY THESE ARE...
...TO DRIVE N OUT THE TRASH SNACKS.
PREDATORSNACKS...
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
IT’S ONE OF THEM NEW REALITY SHOWS.
AND THE RECLINED SHALL LEAD THE RECLINED AND ROTH SHALL FALL INTO v A DITCH.
SLAWBUM/AHHHHHHH//
J A COURSE I IT'S REAL'YOU Vf THINK? B
am/ 
boom.t
The Leading Provider of Internet 
Analstructure ServicesDue to the presence of deep 
fissures in my brain, I stood 
•no chance of getting into 
grad school, and entering 
industry was unthinkable.
So I decided to start my own 
E-company, AssMass(TM).
It catered to the millions of 
Americans who spent most of their waking hours sitting down and using computers.
Turn Off the Radiondm@andrew.cmu.edu
The IncidentThe Verdict
My client was 
unable to control 
himself against 
such dangerous 
software and was 
overcome by the 
perpetual aesire for 
"one more turn."
Though the company went 
bankrupt, I learned a valuable 
lesson, which is that, in 
general, I cannot win, period.
I lived pathetically ever after,
Through Radio Shack, we 
distributed the YouSat(TM) for 
free, which masqueraded as an automatic screensaver activator 
when the sitter vacated it, 
but also covertly tracked 
usage statistics that we could 
sell to other E-companies for 
big bucks.
y*. aay^Ú
for
Unfortunately, enterprising young 
hackers managed to reverse engineer 
the protocol, employing the devices 
as makeshift Dance Dance Revolution 
pads.
CONSUMER WARNING:
US Government studies 
Indicato that this game 
Is a complete wasto of time.
Kg u.*ssbf? wttyt nwe?T
V ^ tetèj
cd 1
lçOMÎ- J
»«ell v»n ^’ll L*1'" owV
prwty / V fy Kd|! yW lo^ow on -the*
«.vor
://-rtlu^b»i-.KvJbireTtor« ©3LDOO
By Kevin Burns 
by IftanAir vaftftoV ¦h>ücHn\g(8)Kubir£.Cai»)
uVi-V>uWL^
Ya.ni Co.' ytti'atwu.riu

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
13 November 2000THE TARTANPage HER
Feel good: James Brown is coming to Pittsburgh
by Greg NofiEntertainment Editor
Okay, you got lucky last week with the elections 
and all. You thought that you were in for a stress­
ful, fun-free week (and weekend) of schoolwork, 
but then found yourself watching Dan Rather 
crack stupid commentary until 5 am on 
Wednesday and then keeping your eyes glued to 
www.cnn.com all week for up-to-the-minute tal­
lies for a re-count in a state that you just wish you 
were in right now rather than gloomy 
Pennsylvania.
If you make no effort to have fun, this week will 
pale in comparison to last week as the election 
(hopefully) winds down. But if you partake of 
some of these 10 brilliant Pittsburgh events, you’ll 
forget all your intense arguments over the pros 
and cons of the Electoral College.
• Did you know that one of the Marsalises is 
giving a live performance on campus today? No, 
it’s not Wynton or Bradford. Instead, their father 
is coming to CMU. Ellis Marsalis is a faculty 
member of the University of New Orleans Jazz 
Department, where he also directs the Jazz 
Studies Division and is widely regarded as the 
best modern jazz pianist in New Orleans. He will 
be appearing from 4:30 to 6 pm in the Kresge
DO PITTSBURGH!
Theater, CFA Building in a event that is a part of 
the University Lecture Series.
• It’s not often that you see the phrase “James 
Brown and His 25-piece Funk Band” fol­
lowing the phrase “Heinz Hall Presents”. But 
that’s exactly what’s happening this Monday at 
7:30 pm in Heinz Hall, Downtown. You can pur­
chase the tickets — which start at $37.50 — at 
www.ticketslive.com. Uh, that’s about it for the 
blurb about this event. I mean, what else can you 
say about Soul Brother Number One? Is there 
anyone who doesn’t know the Godfather of Soul? 
I’m sure you’re already familiar with the half-cen- 
tury legacy of the Hardest Working Man in Show 
Business. You see, I’ve already beaten to death 
the topic of Mr. Dynamite. But anyway, just dish 
out the money and go see him. The man is 67, but 
107 in cocaine years. This opportunity may be 
your last chance to see him perform.
• Big Brother is watching you. If you don’t 
believe me, see for your profile for yourself at 
“Students: An Exhibition About You” It’s 
the latest exhibit at the UC Art Gallery and it runs 
this Tuesday through Saturday with an opening 
reception on Friday from 6 to 8 pm. So allow 
yourself to learn more about, well, yourself. Go to 
this event.
• Let’s face it, as poorly as our Presidental elec­
tion seems to be going, is our country really suf­
fering from this “problem”? Meanwhile, across
the world in the Middle East, Israel really is hav­
ing problems that make our election fears look 
like feeble gripes. If you want to discuss this topic, 
attend “The Middle East: What’s Going 
On?”, a town meeting to express opinions and 
ask questions. It will be held in the Connan Room 
of the University Center from noon to 2 pm on 
Tuesday as a University Forum.
• If you’ve ever been to the Vietnam Veterans 
Memorial or the Oklahoma City National 
Memorial, then you know that memorials can be 
extremely moving. And if you’ve ever thought 
about the gravity of the situations that the memo­
rials immortalize, then you must imagine that 
they are no easy undertaking. This Tuesday, 
Harriet Senie, distinguished visiting professor of 
art, history and policy, Center for the Arts in 
Society, presents “Spontaneous Memorials: 
From the Vietnam Veterans Memorial to 
the Columbine Killings” in McConomy at 
7:30 pm. She will be using Columbine as an 
example when considerations are made of indi­
vidual and social strategies of mourning and 
denial in the wake of sudden death that ruptures 
the connective tissue of a community or a nation.
• “Duuuuuuuude! Did you see that amazing 
purple laser dog? That was awesome!” The good 
news is that now through the end of the year on 
Fridays and Saturdays, the Carnegie Museum of
See PITTSBURGH, page B9
courtesy of Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
James Brown is the latest popular music star to perform 
at Heinz Hall.monday, 11/13 thursday, 11/16 friday, ^7
Ellis Marsalis, professor and director of 
Jazz Studies, University of New Orleans. 4:30 
to 5:30 pm in the Kresge Theatre, CFA. 
Admission: free to the public. Contact:'268- 
7970. Presented as part of the University 
Lecture Series.
Vira I Heinz Scholarship for Education Abroad Info Session. 5 to 6
pm in the Dowd Room, University Center. 
Open to all junior women and 4th-year 
women architects. Contact: 268-4969.
2000 Creative Achievement Awards.
7:30 pm at the Byham Theatre. Admission: 
$18; $7 for students. Contact: 412-456-6666.
Statistics Seminar, Peter Brockwell, 
Department of Statistics, Colorado State 
University. 4:30 to 5:30 pm in Giant Eagle 
Auditorium, Baker Hall A51.
“Robustness and Recovery in Optical Networks,” by Muriel Medard, MIT. 4 to 5 
pm in Room 1112, Hamerschlag Hall with 
refreshments at 3:30 pm. Presented as part of 
the Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering Seminar Series. Contact: 
amp.cce.cmu.edu/ECESeminar.tuesday, 1.1/14
Are we There Yet?: Adjusting to Life inthe US. 5 to 7 pm in the McKenna Peter 
Wright Room, University Center. Contact: 
268-5231.
“Tests of Rationality in Historical Sources: A Case Study of Norwegian 
Medieval Religiosity.” Noon in Porter Hall 
223D. Social & Decision Sciences Seminar by 
Ferdinand Naeshagen from the National 
Police Academy, Oslo, Norway. Brown bag 
lunch, beverages will be piovided. Co-spon- 
sored by History Department and National 
Center on Violence Research.
Town meeting for students to discuss the 
current situation in the Middle East. Speakers 
include Giora Becher, Professor Laurie 
Eisenberg, and Lou Weiss. Contact: 268- 
2869.
Benefits & Fitness Fair. 10 am to 4 pm
in Rangos Ballroom, University Center. 
Admission: Free to Carnegie Mellon faculty, 
staff, campus police employees and students.
“Spontaneous Memorials: From the Vietnam Veterans Memorial to the Columbine Killings,” by Harriet Senie, 
Center for the Arts in Society. 7:30 pm in 
McConomy Auditorium.-Wednesday, /
Joys and Difficulties of Serving in the Non-Profit Sector, by Nancy Lee Cochran, 
Interim Director of Pittsburgh’s Habitat for 
Humanity. 7 to 8:30 pm in the McKenna Peter 
Room, University Center. Contact: 268-2064.
International Food Festival, ll am to
3 pm in Kirr Commons, University Center. 
Presented by TSA.
Susan Perabo. 8 pm in the Giant Eagle 
Auditorium, Baker Hall A51. Presented as 
part of the Adamson Visiting Writer Series.
“Great American Smokeout.” 10 am to
2 pm at Wean Commons, University Center. 
Trade your pack of cigarettes in for a cold 
turkey sandwich.
Kadosh. 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am in 
McConomy Auditorium. Admission: $1 with 
CMU ID, $3 without. Presented by AB Films.
“The Effect of Payment Mechanisms on Spending Behavior: The Role of 
Rehearsal and Immediacy of Payments,” by 
Dillip Soman, Hong Kong University of 
Science & Technology. Noon in Porter Hall 
223D. Presented as part of the Social & 
Decision Sciences Behavioral Decision 
Theory Seminar Series.
“Peer-to-Peer & Hierarchical Knowledge Transfer: The Case of Software 
Metrics,” by Dr. Sandra Slaughter, GSIA, Dr. 
Laurie Kirsch, University of Pittsburgh, and 
Dr. Ranjit Tinaikan, McKinsey & Company. 
3:30 to 5:30 pm in Porter Hall 223D. 
Presented as a Social & Decision Sciences 
Groups & Organizations Series Talk.
Graduate Women’s Connecting Lunch. 12:15 to 1:15 pm in the Singleton 
Room, Roberts Engineering Hall, 4th Floor. 
Register on line at www.cmu.edu/adm/apaa/ 
grad/programdate.html.friday,: ¦ __
Music In a Great Space. 8 pm in
Shadyside Presbyterian Church, 5121 
Westminster Place. Admission: free to stu­
dents and $8 for the general public. Contact: 
682-4300.
The Cell. 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am in 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 without. 
Sponsored by AB Films.
Light-up Night. Festivities start at noon 
in various downtown locations in and near 
the Cultural District. Contact: 1-888-Pgh- 
Fest.
“Graduate Career Choices: What Are Your Options?” by Cliff Davidson and Neil 
Gerrans. Noon to 1:30 pm in the Connan 
Room, University Center. A Graduate 
Student Seminar. Register on-line at 
www.cmu.edu/adm/apaa/grad/program- 
date.html.
Lis Harvey. Noon to 2 pm in Kirr 
Commons, University Center. Contact: 268- 
8704.
AJOOBA - Mayur 2000 Cultural Show.
7 to 11 pm in Rangos Ballroom, University 
Center. Contact: mm3m@andrew.cmu.edu.
Garou game. Live-Action Role-Play of 
Garou (werewolves) from White Wolfs Mind’s 
Eye Theater, Laws of the Wild. 5 to 11 pm in 
Baker Hall 235 and 237. Contact: 
cam @ andrew.cmu.edu.
Modem Languages “French Table.” 5
to 6 pm in Skibo Coffeehouse, University 
Center.Saturday, j 1/18
Scary Movie. 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 
am in McConomy Auditorium, University 
Center. Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 
without. Sponsored by SDC Films.
Contra Dance. 6:30 to 9:30 pm in Thisde 
Hall, Skibo Gym. Heidi Wettlaufer will call 
and teach. Admission; $3 students, $6 general. 
Beginners welcome.
CMU Women’s Basketball — Alumni Game. 11 am in Skibo Gym. Contact: 268- 
8054.
The Grifters with Harm. 10:30 pm in the 
Connan Room, University Center. Presented as 
part of the AB Coffeehouse Music Series. 
Admission: free with CMU ID, $3 without.Sunday, 11/19
Roman Catholic Mass. 10:30 am and 8 
pm in Mellon Auditorium, Posner Hall. Also 
takes place daily at 12:30 pm in the University 
Center chapel. Contact: Roman Catholic 
Newman Center, 681-3181.
Revenge of the Nerds. 8 pm, 10 pm, and
midnight in McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. Admission: $1 with CMU 
ID and $3 without. Sponsored by AB Films.
Free Community Concert. 2 pm at JCC
Katz Auditorium, 5738 Darlington Road, 
Squirrel Hill. Avalon String Quartet featuring 
works by Wolf, Augusta Read Thomas & 
Schubert. Contact: 624-4219.
voxpopuli
NUGGET! how’s the Student Body? 
is this your homework, Larry?
official voice of Elmer Fudd
Big lim is going down!
you make me sick when you speak Morris!
teri: “sweaty big man” <‘"sike _> PSYCHE 
man, step violating ms
You sad, little nan... 
how can you expect 2a.fh0 iMil-e Vgnl
them to go back to the ea fnc evne ...! Go to the Barber & tell
ferni once they ve him you want to stop
seen Karl Hungus? looking like an asshole.
Mrs. Gorf is horny and “Cut the Mullet!
-Ch, lode, yDJL re she’s in your bedroom.growing stignata! better than the beer at Club i always knew I vas Christ.
Penguini,
linguini
The W.V. Instigator!
Erotica, that's for sure 
i love pampers.com 
dude, the m.o.couple!
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to tartan@andrew.cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you’re reading 
way too much into it.
ongoing
CMU Women’s Basketball — CMU Tip- off Tournament November 17 at 6 and 8 
pm and November 18 at 1 and 3 pm in Skibo 
Gym. Contact: 268-8054.
“Grimm Tales.” November 15-18, 29, 30, 
and December 1 in the Philip Chosky Theatre. 
Presented by the School of Drama. Contact: 
268-2407.
A Night at the Opera - Pittsburgh Pops. November 16 at 7:30 pm, 17 and 18 at 
8 pm and 19 at 7:30 pm at Heinz Hall. 
Admission: $21 to $56. Contact: 412-392- 
4900.
A Regina Gouger Miller Gallery Exhibit. From November ,9 through 
December 15. On Floor 1,’’Digital 
Explorations” a screening of the latest digital 
work by the Schools of Architecture and 
Design. On Floor 2, “Works on Paper” by fac­
ulty from the Nagoya Zokei University of Art 
and Design and Nagoya Zokei Junior College, 
Japan. On Floor 3, “Kindred Spirits,” recent 
works, by Marlene Aaron, Peggy Lynn Cox, 
Marilee Keys, and Anne Wolf. Admission: 
free. Contact: 268-3618.
“Aluminum by Design: Jewelry to Jets.” Through February 11 at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art, Oakland. Contact: 662-3212.
“Joseph and the Amazing 
Technicolor Overcoat.” Through 
November 18 at the Orchard Hill Chapel, 
Wexford. Presented by the Saltworks Thatre 
Company. Contact: 394-3353.
“Meat Dreams.” Through December 3 at 
the Melwood Photography Gallery, Oakland. 
Color photographs by Bob Kubiak. Contact: 
681-5449.
“Scenes of Western Pennsylvania: The Photography of Donald M. Robinson.”
Through January 25. Features 67 photos of 
the Western Pennsylvania landscape. Contact: 
622-3131.
“Mentality of a College Student.”
Through Saturday, November 18 in the UC Art 
Gallery. Contact: 268-8704.
Cross Currents. Through November 30 at 
University of Pittsburgh Art Gallery Henry 
Clay Frick Fine Arts Building. Open 10 am to 4 
pm Monday through Wednesday and Friday 
and Saturday and 10 am to 8 pm on Thursday. 
Closed on Sunday.
Three Rivers Film Festival. Through 
November 18. Tickets for festival films are $6 
each and are available at the box office one 
half hour before each showtime. The screen­
ings take place at Harris Theater, 809 Liberty 
Ave, Downtown; Melwood Screening Room, 
477 Melwood Ave, North Oakland; or Regent 
Square Theater, 1035 South Braddock Ave, 
Edgewood. Contact:
www.pghfilmmakers.org/filmfest/ or 682- 
4111.
Gifts of Winter. Through February 28 at 
the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, fifth floor, Hunt Library. 
Hours: 9 am to noon and 1 to 5 pm, Monday 
through Friday and Sunday 1 to 4 pm. 
Admission: free. Contact: 268-2434.
Undergraduate Art Shows at the Frame. Noon to 5 pm, November 15 through 
19 at the Frame Gallery.
