Treasurer freezes 
Gospel Choir funds
By KENDRICK CHUA
Tartan Assistant. News Editor
Student government has frozen the 
funding of the Voices United Gospel 
Choir (VUGC) due to the supposed 
religious nature of the student organi­
zation.
Student Senate bylaws forbid the 
funding of any religious organizations 
on campus.
Voices United Gospel Choir has been 
without funding since the beginning 
of the fiscal year.
VUGC has prayers at the beginning 
and end of each rehearsal, and a Chap­
lain officer 
which is re­
sponsible for 
these prayers.
C o n s e - 
quently, Jay 
Laefer, student 
government 
treasurer, in­
terpreted this 
as the actions of a religious organiza­
tion, and made the sole decision to 
suspend funding to VUGC for fiscal 
1993, the period from July 1,1992 to 
June 30,1993.
In a memo to the VUGC on May 7, 
Laefer said there were “ongoing ques­
tions for many years about the reli­
gious nature oftheVUGC”, ever since 
its founding in the late '70s.
In 1987, according to the same 
memo, VUGC promised to work to 
change the organization in order “to 
remove questions about its possible 
religious nature.”
However, VUGC maintains in its
constitution that it is not a religious 
organization.
According to VUGC president Tara 
Haughton, complaints and changes in 
the choir policy happened before she 
became president. Also, the prayer is 
notamandatory partoftherehearsal. 
Haughton said, “It’s not part of the 
function of the choir; we don’t force it 
on anyone.”
The executive board of VUGC met 
with Laefer and three student sena­
tors, including Micheál Loomis of 
Funding and Recognition (F&R) on 
May 9.
There are plans for the two groups 
to meet again in the 
coming weeks in order 
to resolve the problem 
and allow the VUGC 
budget to be reviewed 
by Senate.
Laefer expresses 
concern about tho 
funding of any parti­
san group, having said, 
“All full-time students must pay the 
Activities Fee; they should not be re­
quired to fund groups that hold posi­
tions that may be offensive to them.” 
Haughton has concerns about the 
longevity ofVUGC. Said Haughton, “I 
would hate to see the choir dissolved 
... we are the only choir that is not a 
part of the College of Fine Arts.” 
Haughton also mentioned the choir’s 
community contributions, like the free 
annual concert at Carnegie Mellon, 
and charitable performances at the 
Ronald McDonald House on Shady 
Avenue and the Little Sisters of the 
Poor, a home for the aged.
STUDENT¦141033SENATEwi,...’“
Treasu fzG oppau lChinud_u Mueern Un_Huip_mRt c_mmpkaidOG cunnpReHhn_hf —u2muskui •ggl
__
it’s Cawfee Tawk...
—ma8unmp iuehS _n mOu nubeR r2unu8 1—9 Cr^^uuB 
«i_pmun Vuiiedhn 'C•Iwt Vu-.R EeirR 'YD——wt M_.u
CMU Human Relations 
Commission checks ROTC
By DECLAN MCCUULAGH
Tartan Junior Staffuiriter
Earlier this summer, the Human Relations 
Commission (HRC) released the results of its 
investigation into the conflicts between the De­
partment of Defense’s (DoD) gay, lesbian, and 
bisexual policy and
Carnegie Mellon’s 
anti-discrimina- 
tory Statement of 
Assurance.
The Statement of 
Assurance, which 
says the University 
does not discrimi­
nate based on 
sexual orientation, 
was put to the test 
last school year 
when the Uni­
versity’s Navy ROTC program disenrolled a 
student after he informed his commanding of­
ficer that he was gay.
After the ensuing tumult, University Presi­
dent Robert Mehrabian and the Faculty Affairs
Council asked the Human Relations Commis­
sion to examine the situation and report its 
findings to the Faculty Senate. The Commis­
sion, which stated that the DoD policy “was 
formulated without a solid empirical basis,” 
found that the University must “be concerned 
about the policy of the Defense Department to 
exclude gays 
and lesbi­
ans.”
At the same 
time, the 
June 20 re­
port stated 
that about 
200 students, 
many of 
whom could 
nototherwise 
attend the 
University, 
receive financial aid from ROTC programs.
In addition, if the ROTC programs were re­
moved from campus, the University would lose 
$2.5 million annually in tuition and fees alone.
Please see ROTC, page 4
“[DoD policy] was formulated 
without a solid empirical basis 
[and the University must] be con­
cerned about the policy ...to ex­
clude gays and lesbians
— HRC report
THE TARTAN
• Oregon’s new anti-gay laws 
challenge the rights of individu­
als.
— See page 6
• Come out for winning Tartans 
football.
— See page 9
H&SS dean's office plans core changes
Curriculum to be completely revamped
By BRENDAN MCFEELY
Tartan News Editor
After being in place for fifteen years, 
the H&SS core curriculum will be un­
dergoing a major overhaul.
“The new program will be in place by 
next fall,” said H&SS Dean Peter 
Steams. These upcoming changes will 
affect current H&SS freshmen and 
sophomores.
Last fall, the College initiated a full 
scale review of the core, under the aus­
pices of the Core Curriculum Commit­
tee, which reports to Steams.
Th'i committee, chaired by 
Richard A. Smith, Associate 
Dean of H&SS, first met in 
October of •gg• to review 
the existing core and its re­
quirements.
The core was reviewed 
with regard to the problems 
related to H&SS, including, 
according to the official re­
port, “enrollment, retention, _______
student dissatisfaction, and 
student passivity.”
To address these considerations, the 
committee divided into four task forces 
that could handle each of the problems 
in more depth.
Among the data used by the commit-
and was later discussed in the June 15 
open meeting of the H&SS faculty.
The revised report recommends that 
H&SS adopt a new program by the fall 
semester of 1993. This new program 
would no longer be known as the core, 
and will instead be referred to as the 
genera] education program, a complete 
revamping of the current system.
The basic common core requirements 
would be rearranged to fall under one of 
four new disciplines, including Compu­
tational Reasoning, World Cultures, 
Writing/Expression, and Statistical Rea­
soning.
"What we heard when we talked to 
[students] last fall was that [they] 
wanted more choice
— Richard Smith, 
associate Dean of H&SS
Students would be required to com­
plete courses under these headings 
within their first two years in H&SS.
Additional courses will fall under the 
heading of distributional requirements,
and faculty, and will prevent the stagna­
tion of courses that has plagued H&SS 
for several years, and was one of the 
driving forces behind the move for re- 
evaluation of the core.
“There should be much more varied 
experience [for the student] in freshman 
year,” said Smith.
Steams expressed his satisfaction with 
the work done by the committee. “This 
is an impressive product,” he said. He 
does not feel that the committee has 
gone at all overboard in its revamping of 
the core.
“We didn’t scrap everything — it was 
unnecessary," he said. 
Instead, he said, the 
flexibility will be 
achieved not only with 
the restructuring of re­
quirements, but also 
with an emphasis on 
new learning, rather 
than one on “mastering 
the old masters.”
____________ “There will be lots of
BHHBBBMI new courses,” said 
Steams.
New courses include an overview of 
mathematics, tentatively known as Prin­
ciples of Mathematical Reasoning.
Other new courses would fall under 
the headings of Computational Reason-
tee for its réévaluation process were with subheadings of Cognition and ing and World Cultures, with the new
meetings 'with members of the H&SS 
student body, who were convened in 
groups to air their personal views of the
core.
“What we heard when we talked to 
[students] last fall was that [they] wanted 
more choice,” said Smith, speaking of 
the group meetings.
The committee created a report on its 
findings and conclusions for submission 
to the Dean’s office in May of this year,
Choice; Economic, Political, and Social 
Institutions; Creative Production and 
Reflection; Cultural Analysis; Math­
ematical Reasoning; and Science and 
Technology.
The requirements would include two 
courses in the Science and Technology 
category and six more courses from un­
der the other five headings.
The hope is that these new categories 
will be more flexible for both students
World Cultures class being developed 
with an eye towards replacing Steams’ 
own World History, long a required 
course for freshmen at the University.
Smith urges students to comment on 
these plans. “There’s still plenty of room 
for student comment," he said.
An opportunity for such comment will 
be provided for students in a meeting to 
be held by the committee on September 
16 from 4:30 pm to 6 pm in Gregg Hall.
Classifieds...........................11
Comics................................L6
Diversions.........................Lll
Features.............................LI
Forum....................................6
Sports.....................................9
University Calendar.........LI 3
VoxPopuli.........................LI 3
• You are what you eat, so eat 
well!
— See page LI
• Recipes for the health- 
consicous, and unconscious.
— See page L3
• De La Soul hip-hops into 
town this week — a preview of 
this groundbreaking rap act.
— See page Lll
M_-Ohue Nradehp pmhip on Baste 
Instinct, mO_p buu. on NYll•W
•Howard’s End plays the 
Playhouse
— See page Lll
Mike Harlls/Tartnn PliotQ StuffGo Tartans!
CoI pr2Orsriu A_-. VapO -hii_up mOu k0ee mOiradO mOu Jan_hmh e_nu on 1upeend —mh8_as rn —hmai8hRG

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992
^9SBMl9«r MMT Vlfi'THIS JUST IN• ••
Federal agencies told to simplify procedures
WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 (AP) — The 
White HouBe is preparing a broad plan 
that would instruct federal agencies to 
review their rules periodically as a way 
of weeding out those deemed unneces­
sary or too costly, The Wall Street Jour­
nal reported.
President Bush is expected to an­
nounce the plan later this month as a 
part of a campaign stop touting his drive 
against what he calls overregulation. 
During his acceptance speech at the 
Republican convention, Bush said he 
would “isBue an order to get rid of any 
rule whose time has come and gone,” but 
he didn’t provide details.
White HouBe officials are now filling
the plan out, which wouldn’t require 
congressional approval. The President 
would urge agencies to attach so-called 
sunset provisions to new rules, gener­
ally setting dates by which rules expire 
unless they’re specifically renewed. In 
addition, agencies would be instructed 
to review all existing rules, to add sun­
set provisions, or kill undesirable rules. 
Many of the details of the plan still must 
be worked out before they are presented 
to James Baker, the President’s chief of 
staff, the officials said.
Regulation-bashing has become one 
of the Bush campaign’s main themes, as 
a way of positioning the President as a 
friend of small business and an enemy of
biggovemment. During Bush’s first two 
years in office, however, he pushed costly 
environmental and disability laws that 
reversed a downward trend in the cost of 
regulation during the Carter and Reagan 
years.
Separately, the Vice President’s Coun­
cil on Competitiveness is preparing a 
report on deregulation that sketches an 
agenda for a second term. Officials said 
the report suggests farther deregula­
tion in the transportation, energy, tele­
communications, and financial-services 
markets. For instance, the report rec­
ommends allowingtelephone companies 
and other communications concerns to 
compete in the cable-television market;
reducing federal deposit insurance on 
bank accounts; and allowing banks to 
open interstate branches. Congress has 
rejected those suggestions in the past.
In drafting the sunset plan, the White 
House is making a distinction between 
regulations based on specific congres­
sional statutes, such as the Clean Air 
Act, and regulations based on an agency’s 
general authority to act. With statute- 
based rules, the agency would attach 
requirements to simply “review” the 
rules after every five years or so. After 
the review, the agency could recommend 
that Congress make changes in the un­
derlying statute, and could draw up regu­
latory changes that are allowed under
the agency’s discretion.
For instance, a statute bars the Fed­
eral Communications Commission from 
letting phone companies compete with 
cable TV companies in the cable busi- 
ness. The FCC regularly recommends to 
Congress that the prohibition be 
dropped, and Congress regularly ignores 
the recommendation, while the agency 
changes its own rules to let phone com- 
panies provide some video services.
With regulations based on the agency’s 
general authority, the plan envisions a 
simpler sunset provision. Agencies 
would require that rules expire after 
say, five years, unless the agency re­
news the rules.
Italian relief plane shot down-
Further aid to Bosnia endangered
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina, 
Sept. 4 (AP) — Evidence in the crash 
of an Italian relief plane indicates the 
aircraft was shot down by a missile, 
Italian officials said. They called for 
warplanes to escort future mercy 
flights.
Outrage over the loss of the plane 
and its four crewmen was widespread.
Butitwasunclearif the anger would 
scuttle the international airlift to be­
sieged Sarajevo or widen Western in­
volvement in the Bosnian war, raising 
the chances for foreigners to come 
under fire.
The Pentagon said two Marine heli­
copters may have been shot at yester­
day while searching for the downed 
airplane in the first use of U.S. air­
craft over war-torn Bosnia. Officials 
said today that the pilots saw muzzle 
flashes from small arms but were not 
certain the shots were aimed at the 
helicopters.
Troops of Bosnia’s Muslim, Croat,
and Serb factions all operate in the 
area where the plane went down, and 
there was no evidence to link any to 
the incident, U.N. officials said. Serb 
and Muslim forces blamed each other.
U.N. officials have suspended the 
international airlift while they inves­
tigate the crash.
U.N. Boldiers found the bodies of the 
Italian airplane’s crew today after 
searching through wreckage strewn 
acroBS a mile-wide area of a mountain 
west of Sarajevo.
Italy’s defense minister, SalvoAndo, 
said in Rome that he had no formal 
confirmation that the plane was shot 
down but that that was the most likely 
explanation.
The search team found a hole in the 
plane’s fuselage and pieces of what 
could be an anti-aircraft missile, a 
spokesperson said.
When asked when the flights would 
start again, Mike Aitchinson, a U.N. 
official in Croatia, said “Maybe never.”
Bush sputters on space program
WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 (AP) — The 
White House, after proposing to termi­
nate a costly space rocket-engine pro­
gram, is now backpedaling in the face of 
Southern political pressure this elec­
tion year.
Budget Director Richard Darman has 
signaled his willingness to look for fed­
eral funds to continue the project. 
Darman’s move, which began last win­
ter as a slap at House Appropriations 
Committee Chair Jamie Whitten (D- 
Miss.), risks becoming a political em­
barrassment for President Bush in 
Southern states he hopes to win this 
fall.
At stake is the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration’s advanced 
solid-rocket motor (ASRM) program, 
headquartered, in Mississippi but im­
portant as well to neighboring Tennes­
see and Alabama. NASA has already 
committed $1.18 billion to the project 
throughthis month, but the White House 
proposed to terminate the program in 
its budget for the fiscal year beginning 
October 1.
The decision was justified on the
grounds that the rising costs of the en­
gine program jeopardize other priorities 
in a tight space budget. But the admin­
istration privately wanted to retaliate 
against Whitten for failing to allocate 
more money for space programs, even as 
his northern Mississippi district enjoyed 
the benefits of the ASRM program. Four 
of Mississippi’s five House members, 
including Whitten, opposed White House 
efforts to restore money for NASA’s space 
station last year, and this stormy fight 
provoked Darman and appeared to con­
tribute to the decision to kill ASRM.
Worried Republicans from the South 
were told the cuts would never be made 
because of the chair’s standing in Con­
gress. But all sides were stunned in late 
July when the House approved an 
amendment by Rep. Wayne Owens (D- 
Utah) supporting much of what the ad­
ministration wanted. Now that Congress 
is in danger of doing what the President 
asked, the White House is having to look 
for a compromise to blunt the backlash.
The administration’s position is also 
awkward because of a letter Vice Presi­
dent Quayle wrote weeks before the
House vote in which he applauded an 
activist working against the project. 
Quayle acknowledged that the program 
provided “many jobs,” but added that 
the “needs which underpinned ASRM 
are no longer needed.”
According to NASA documents the 
program will generate more than 3,100 
jobs. Though this will taper off when 
construction of the rocket facility is com­
pleted the project is expected to employ 
nearly 1,700 people during the opera­
tions phase.
The political theater is matched by 
corporate lobbying behind the scenes. 
Thiokol Corp. has a stake in the ASRM 
project. But the engine program threat­
ens its dominance in the space rocket 
field, and the Utah-based company 
would quietly like to see the termina­
tion go through.
This helps explain the role played by 
Owens, who is running for the Senate 
this year and has cast himself as a 
defender of jobs at home and proven 
partner of the much more conservative 
Sen. Jake Gam(R-Utah), whom he hopes 
to succeed.
Bush helping U.S. farmers to compete with EC crops
WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 (AP)
— President Bush released $755 
million in emergoncy disaster aid 
for farmers and announced $3 
billion in new agricultural subsi­
dies for wheat exports.
The Whito House announced 
the agricultural subsidies to 
make U.S. wheat more competi­
tive in world markets against 
European Community (EC) prod­
ucts.
The movo is a departure from
the administration’s insistence 
in ongoing trade talks in Geneva 
that all farm subsidies be ended.
“Absent an agreement, the 
President is committed to using 
tools at his disposal to ensure 
that U.S. producers are able to 
compote,” a Whito House fact 
shoot said.
An administration official, 
while denying that Bush was try­
ing to start a trade war, said the 
President was determined to
“meet the EC competition wher­
ever we find it.”
The new subsidies will cover 
1.1 billion bushels of U.S. wheat 
sales to 28 countries. The admin­
istration claimed the export pack­
age was worth more than $3 bil­
lion to U.S. farmers and could 
support nearly 100,000 new U.S. 
jobs.
With 62 days left in the presi­
dential race, the White House 
announced the programs as Bush
headed to campaign stops in 
South Dakota and Texas. The 
move followed a promise of 100 
percent reimbursement for 
Florida’s recovery costs from 
Hurricane Andrew, a step that 
can only boost his popularity in a 
key electoral state.
The White House said the Presi­
dent was freeing $755 million in 
emergency aid for farm disasters 
including Hurricane Andrew and 
other catastrophes such as floods,
tornadoes, and frost in states from 
Texas to the upper Midwestern 
U.S.
Much of the $755 million in 
disaster aid would goto rice farm­
ers and others affected by Hurri­
cane Andrew in Florida and Loui­
siana, but the money also would 
reach farmers whose crops had 
suffered catastrophic losses in 
other states. This includes losses 
to the nation’s winter wheat crop 
from flooding in Texas, Okla­
homa, and Kansas.
It also would cover hail and 
frost damage to com crops in the 
upper Midwest, including South 
Dakota. Some of the money will 
go to crop losses in 1990 and 
1991.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones Inc. 
Layout by 
Matt Adler
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
MY DEGREE GOT ME THE INTERVIEW. ARMY R0TC GOT ME THE JOB.
Army ROTC classes provide the leadership skills 
sought by top employers. Register this term for 
an Army ROTC elective.
University of Pittsburgh
Beverly )• Ertman
MAJOR • UNITED STATES ARMY
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SCIENCE
..'906 CATHEDRAL OF LEARNING 
PITTSBURGH PENNSYLVANIA 15260-0001
4'^ 6473
ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE TOD CAN TAKE.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992
Carnegie Mellon in BriefCrime and Incident Report
Antiwar protests announced
Desert Flower, an organization which opposes military interven­
tion in the affairs of Iraq, will hold two protests in the following 
weeks The first, scheduled for Wednesday, September 9 at 12:15 
be a procession from the front of Doherty Hall to Warner 
Hall "where Desert Flower protesters will attempt to speak with 
President Robert Mehrabian.
The organization alleges that Carnegie Mellon is directing more of 
its resources into military contracts and research. Also, a concert on 
Friday, September 18, at the Graffiti on 4615 Baum Blvd. has been 
cheduledby Desert Flower to raise money for reconstruction projects 
in Iraq. Flyers advertising both events have been posted in several 
places on campus.
Desert Flower has been protesting CMU’s military contracts for
eight years.
Alumnus receives award
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Maxwell Drain has won the Psi Chi/J. 
p Guilford Undergraduate Research Award Competition for a 
version of his senior thesis on neuroscience theory. Psi Chi, the 
national psychology honor society, withholds the names of the 
competing students’ advisors and universities from those who judge 
the competition. Drain graduated with his bachelor’s degree in 
cognitive science last May.
Drain’s CMU research advisor, Martha J. Farah, is currently at 
the University of Pennsylvania. Drain is continuing the research he 
began as an undergraduate in cognitive neuroscience in the doctor­
ate program at the University of Michigan.
Stearns to speak at 
University of Amsterdam
Peter Steams, dean of the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences and Heinz professor of history, has been invited to spend 
this week in the Netherlands. Steams will speak at the University 
of Amsterdam by request of its Sociology Department on the history 
of emotions. Steams will also consult with graduate students.
Compiled by 
KENDRICK CHUA
Correction...
The Tartan corrects all errors offact. Ifyou know of an 
¦error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Heidi Hoover 
0.1x2111, or write her in care ofThe Tartan, Skibo 50.
8/31 MYSTERIOUS VE­
HICULAR MOTION, 10:14 am.
A CMU student reported that her 
car was moved from its spot in 
Morewood parking lot.
It was revealed that the vehicle 
had been towed.
8/31 BURGLARY, 11:38 am. 
A Carnegie Mellon student re­
ported a stereo receiver worth 
approximately $160 was stolen 
from a fraternity house.
The double wooden door en­
trance to the house was forced 
open, and the receiver was taken 
from the basement where audio 
equipment is kept. No other 
equipment was touched.
8/31 THEFT,12:39pm. ACar- 
negie Mellon student reported 
computer equipment stored in a 
fraternity’s garage stolen. Sub­
sequent investigation revealed 
several items were missing from 
the garage.
9/1 MEDICAL ESCORT,
12:00 am. A Carnegie Mellon stu­
dent fell down a flight of stairs in 
the dark in her residence hall, 
injuring her left foot.
9/1 PHONE HARASSMENT,
12:08 am. Two Carnegie Mellon 
students reported receiving ob­
scene phone calls on their an­
swering machine the two previ­
ous nights. The male caller was 
not known to the students.
9/1 MEDICAL ESCORT,
12:14 am. A student contacted 
Campus Police for transport to 
Presbyterian Hospital after cut­
ting her finger with an exacto 
knife.
9/1 MEDICAL ESCORT, 1:41
am. A female student complained 
of nausea and a pain in her side. 
She was transported to Presbyte­
rian Hospital by Campus Police.
9/1 MEDICAL ESCORT, 2:16 
am. An ABM custodian wrenched
Document Matching
Be sure to report all your income to IRS. It receives copies of statements from your employer, banks, and similar institutions —to verify the income you report.
P cUVFoC —ELToCE ME——P1E 6L9M IYE oAIELAPF LETEAUE —ELToCE
HAVE YOU CHANGED?
(your address, number, etc.?)C-Book Change of Address Form
PLEASE INDICATE WHICH DATA 
IS TO BE CHANGED
Department
Fraternity/Sorority 
Phone Number:
Local Address:
Permanent Addresss:
Please Return to either Skibo 54 or the Skibo Information Desk by September 22.
Another A Phi O Service
his back while in the process of 
lifting a 20-gallon water tank. 
Campus Police provided trans­
port to Presbyterian Hospital.
9/1 AMBULANCE SUM­
MONED, 2:30 pm. A female stu­
dent became dizzy and fainted 
while working out in the small 
gym.
City medics were called and 
transported the student to Pres­
byterian Hospital Emergency 
Room.
9/1 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
9:40 pm. A Carnegie Mellon stu­
dent was stmck on the neck by an 
egg while he was bicycling down 
Schenley Drive, coming up from 
Tech Street.
Campus Police discovered sev­
eral broken eggs scattered on the 
street where the student was 
stmck. No assailants were found.
9/1 HARASSMENT, 10:00 pm. 
Two Carnegie Mellon students 
and a friend were leaving the 
Morewood Gardens parking lot 
when they were harassed by four 
men, one of whom was wearing a 
clown costume.
As they left the lot, one of the 
menthrewapieceof fruit at their 
vehicle, hitting the windshield. 
No visible damage was done.
9/2 VIOLATION OFLIQUOR 
LAWS, 2:21 am. Campus police 
observed two students painting 
the fence while drinking from 
open cans of beer, with a third 
can on a fence post.
Both were issued an open can­
ister violation, and one was cited 
for underage possession.
9/2 UNLAWFUL KEY DU­
PLICATION, 2:47 pm. The 
Housing Office reported a Carn­
egie Mellon student had dupli­
cated his room key.
The duplicated key was confis­
cated by a Housing employee. 
Housing requested an investiga­
tion regarding the incident.
9/2 ARREST, 6:25 pm. Two 
Campus Police officers arrested 
a male who attempted to steal a 
bicycle from the rack behind the 
GSIA building. The suspect en­
countered one officer while cut­
ting the cable which secured the 
bicycle, and attempted to explain 
that he owned it while another 
officer arrived.
The suspect fled when the real 
owner of the bicycle arrived to 
work the combination lock. In the 
ensuing chase and stmggle the 
suspect attempted to bite an of­
ficer on the leg while being re­
strained. The officer suffered a 
cracked rib, and was treated for 
other abrasions on his knees and 
hands.
9/2 MEDICAL ESCORT, 8:59 
pm. A Carnegie Mellon student 
squirted himself in the eye with 
super glue while attempting to 
repair his shoes.
9/3 SUSPICIOUS PERSON,
5:43 am. A convicted felon who 
previously was involved in vio­
lent crimes was on campus at­
tempting to seek out a staff mem­
ber.
Campus police informed the 
man that he was not welcome 
and that continued or future pres­
ence would result in arrest for 
defiant trespassing. The man 
became agitated but did leave in 
a car parked behind Smith Hall. 
The car was later discovered to 
have been stolen from a rental 
lot.
9/3 THEFT, 12:35 am. An un­
secured bicycle was reported sto­
len from the rear door area of the 
Morewood Kitchen.
9/3 MEDICAL ESCORT,
10:40 am. A Carnegie Mellon stu­
dent was taken to a city hospital 
after falling off the ladder on her 
bunk bed and striking her head 
on the wooden floor.
9/3 THEFT, 1:44 pm. A CMU
student reported the rear wheel 
of his bicycle was stolen, switched - 
with an older, rusted wheel.
9/3 THEFT, 2:30 pm. Two Car­
negie Mellon students reported 
several food items stolen from 
their room in the week since fall 
semester began.
9/3 THEFT, 6:00 pm. Room 
number plates from the sixth floor 
of the Mellon Institute were re­
ported stolen.
Numbers 636, 644, 646, 648 
and 650 were missing on the 
morning of September 1. The . 
plates are fastened to the walls 
with only two flathead screws.
9/3 ASSAULT, 9:10 pm. ACar- 
negie Mellon student was as­
saulted in the Skibo game room 
duringagameof “StreetFighter.” 
He was attacked by his gaming 
opponent and another person af­
ter an argument about the game 
and the use of “cheap moves.”
9/3 INCIDENT, 10:00 pm. Two 
female Carnegie Mellon students 
in their dorm room were con­
fronted by a male student in the 
doorway who suggested they go 
out with him.
He was removed by a second 
male who apologized for the first, 
saying he was drunk. Both left 
the residence hall and were not 
found by Campus Security.
Compiled by 
KENDRICK CHUA
The weekly Crime and In­
cident Report is provided to 
The Tartan after review by 
Campus Police Chief James 
LaPaglia.
Sure, you hate studying once in awhile. 
The Pittsburgh Symphony can relate. It’s 
a great place to take a break from 
studying. At only $7.00 a concert for 
student season tickets you save up to 
60% off regular season tickets! So put 
away the books. Take a break and come 
out to play with the PittsburghSymphony.
Sept. 20
Beethoven's Fidelio 
(opera in two acts]
Lonn Maazel, conductor 
All-star cast of vocal 
soloists
Mendelssohn Choir of Pgh. 
Dec. 13
An afternoon of Haydn, 
Brahms & Ravel, including 
Ravel's Mother Goose 
André Previn, conductor 
Kyung-Wha Chung, violin
Nov. 1
An afternoon of Webern, 
Grieg & Shostakovich 
Yoel Levi, conductor 
Bella Davidovich, piano
Mar. 14
An afternoon of Chavez. 
Wleniawski and Berlioz 
Eduardo Mata, conductor 
Ingolf Turban, violin
Nov. 15
An afternoon of 
Rachmaninov,. 
Shostakovich & Brahms 
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
Shlra Rabin, violin
Apr. 25^__—
1 xW°^Resp'9'nl 
6 n t
Lonn Maazel, conductor 
Yefim Bronfman, piano
Sunday Afternoons
Concerts begin at 2:30. Pre-concert discussions 
begin at 1:30 from Heinz Hall stage.
Complete 6 concert package for only $42.00.
To order, or for 
a free brochure with 
further information,CALL 332-4900.
Seating assignments are made on a "best available" basis. 
Student subscriptions are not renewable.H-fE STUUDEN¦14 03Aw4i,3.’“i¦T, nAvA • Music eT¦riU¦

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992
ROTC heterosexism decried by 
Human Resources Commission
ROTC, from page 1
The cost to replace those stu­
dents would be substantial.
After careful consideration, 
the Commission proposed plans 
designed to bring the campus 
community into accord with the 
Statement of Assurance. One 
proposed step would amend the 
Statement to say that ROTC 
programs do not comply with it. 
The Commission’s report also 
proposed that the University 
should take a lead role in the 
national academic community 
by joining with other universi­
ties to lobby the federal govern­
ment and by hosting a national
conference in Washington, D.C. 
to examine the issue of gays and 
lesbians in the military.
The report stated that if the 
issue has not been resolved by 
the fall of 1994, the Commission 
would revisit it with an eye to 
recommending the termination 
of CMU’s ROTC affiliation.
In conclusion, the Commission 
stated that “We believe that our 
government, our Department of 
Defense, ought to abide by these 
[non-discriminatory] standards, 
attempt to be nondi scrim in atory 
alongthese same dimensions, and 
we pledge our efforts to work... to 
try to see that this is accom­
plished.”
The Statement of Assurance 
has been reworded by the Ad­
ministration in response to the 
HRC’s report. The change to 
the Statement is in the second 
paragraph, and reads: “While 
the federal government does 
continue to exclude gays, lesbi­
ans, and bisexuals from receiv­
ing ROTC scholarships or serv­
ing in the military, ROTC 
classes on this campus are 
available to all students.”
In this election year, debate 
over gay and lesbian rights has 
made its way to the national 
political scene.
Student Senate Minutes
The minutes of the weekly Student Senate meet­
ings usually run in The Tartan, but were not 
available this week.
We hope this does not cause any problems for 
students, and assure the student body that the 
minutes will return in the future.
Student Senate Minutes are submitted by Sen­
ate and may be edited for space considerations.
Edited portions of the minutes are indicated by 
an ellipsis in brackets.
The Student Senate meets weekly on Tuesday
PEACE CORPS world wise Curicl
For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526
INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 90 nations around the 
world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries.
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce 
the name of the country darkened on the map at the right.
P ^risui —2hn_pO -rernR _n —ramO 
Psui_-ht H_-mri_rap _n h •gmO 
-unmaiR bhi rHui _mp nrimOuin 
nu_dOkrip r^ Vre_H_h hn8 cuiaG
itii’s uh’,) '(• a,i/uiuy ¦<//!'/ Y >ju»iwiliiiui'i Julihi.i '/
•G IO_p -ranmiR _p mOu brie85p euh8_nd 
2ir8a-ui r^ mO_p sumheG
lG cre_m_-he pmhmap h-O_uHu8 kR mO_p -ranmiR 
_n •f•fG
4G P -rssrn nhsu ^ri mOu -ranmi_up r^ 
mOu 7upmuin Yus_p2Ouiu pramO r^ mOu 
Un_mu8 —mhmupG
3G IOu nhsu r^ mOu 2un_npaeh ^risu8 kR 
mOu pramOuin kri8ui r^ mO_p -ranmiR hn8 
_mp nu_dOkrit Pidunm_nhG
Psych Department research lauded
CMU ranked first among world institutions
By KENDRICK CHUA
Tartan Asst. News Editor
Carnegie Mellon University was found to have 
the most influential Psychology Department among 
psychology researchers in all ofNorth America and 
Europe.
According to a study by the Daily Newspaper at 
the 25th International Congress of Psychology in 
Brussels, from the period 1986—1990, papers writ­
ten by Carnegie Mellon professors and student 
researchers were most often cited by leading psy­
chology studies in Canada, the United States, 
Germany and the United Kingdom.
While the University did not produce the highest 
number of papers (the University of California at 
Los Angeles produced the most at 728 papers), or 
gamer the most citations (the University of Illinois 
publications on psychology received 3,275 cita­
tions), the 199 papers that were produced by re­
searchers at Carnegie Mellon were cited a total of
1,213 times by various writers and researchers.
Dividing the number of papers by the number of 
citations gives what the International Congress of 
Psychology calls an impact index, which for the 
University was calculated to be 6.10. This was the 
highest impact index out of 50,000 papers from 
educational institutions all across the continent 
and in Europe.
The average impact index for psychology cita- 
tions was approximately 1.9. The Carnegie Mellon 
Psychology Department was closely followed by 
the psychology departments of the University of 
Vermont, with an impact index of 5.16, and of 
Princeton University, which has an impact index 
of 4.92.
The papers were extracted from 225 psychology 
journals covered in the Current Contents I Social & 
Behavioral Sciences. Also, the papers were ob­
tained from a set of international databases, the 
Social Sciences Citation Index and the Science 
Citation Index.
nights at 7 pm in
the Wherret STUDENT 
Room in Skibo. ¦
Meetings are SENATE 
presided over by 
Student Senate
Chair Matthew McGarvey and Student Govern­
ment President Natalie Gesmond.
Student Senate meetings are public, and all are 
invited to attend and participate in Student Gov­
ernment.
IM/ECON "HAPPY (UJ HOUR'
Time:Place:
4:30 - 6:00 p.m. Skibo Faculty Lounge
Pates:
Thursday, September 10, 1992 
Thursday, October 15, 1992 
Thursday, November 12, 1992 
Wednesday. December 9, 1992
A good way to unwind! Stop by - eliat with your friends. Meet the Faculty.
FOOD!
(Non-Alcoholic — Everyone Welcome)
Coordinated by the Student Advisory Committee, departments of 
Industrial Management and Economies.
FOUR YEARS OF COLLEGE DOWN THE TURES.
If you think the tests in col­
lege are tough, wait until your 
first job interview. Last year,
America’s businesses lost
WE RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS.
Partnership for a Drug-Free America
$60 billion to drugs.
So this year, most of the 
Fortune 500 will be administer­
ing drug tests. Failing the test
means you won't be considered 
for employment.
After all, if you're into drugs, 
how smart can you be.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTÁN
Can you write? 
Can you design? 
Can you eat free pizza? 
Would you like to read the Crime 
and Incident Report before all 
your friends?
If you can do or would like to do any of the above, and are 
interested in working for a dynamic, exciting news desk, 
contact Tartan News Editor Brendan McFeely or Assistant 
News Editor Kendrick Chua at x2111, or drop by the staff 
meeting Wednesday night at 9:30 in the Tartan office,
Skibo 50.
The Macintosh 
Student Aid Package.
Apple Macintosh PowerBook' 145 4/40Apple Macintosh Classic' IIApple Macintosh LCIIApple Macintosh lisi
Get over ‘400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever. And if you are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student
For more information visit theCarnegie Mellon Computer Storeor call 268-2636
aid like this is only available through October 15,1992 - and only at your authori2ed Apple campus reseller.
¡CORRECT
Studeedu
®I992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh arc registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed tu Apple Computer. Inc- PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer. Inc. The Hindi mi House Enculopwlti is a Inulenurk of Random Home. In. Ameni an llenuge Flo ironic Du lu «un Klalroim TTjcwUfU». and 
^^Toi'dnttopcd by Houghton Mifflin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Rogct's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrciText underiving techmdiigy developed InTanguage Systems, inc. Calendar Ca-ator is a trademark of Piiwerl'p Software (¿>r|>oraliiin KesuimU nter 1* a trademark' if ll< mtwafc Software Company. Inc All pruduti name* are llie 
‘11 "u,l‘ ihcir respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration only. AJI qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instructions Disks anti pnnteil manual* are mu inclutktl in I hi* offer

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
UDC should publicize 
disciplinary actions
The University Committee on Discipline (UDC) is a shadowy figure that hovers in the back­ground of University affairs. Most students are vaguely aware of its existence, but have no real idea of its purpose or how it works.Currently, the adminis­tration will say nothing about a UDC hearing — whether one happened, what it was about, who was involved, or what the outcome was. The University justifies this policy by saying that it is to protect the privacy and confidentiality of both the accuser and the accused stu­dents. While we understand the need for privacy, we feel that it’s time for UDC to step out of shad­ows and into the light of public knowledge.We’d like to see UDC become better known on campus. Aver­age students should know just what UDC is. They should know who will be judging them, what kind of recourse they have if called before a UDC, and what will happen at the hearing. True, the Student Handbook outlines UDC, but the chances that stu­dents read that far in the hand­book are, let’s face it, slim at best.Students need to know how to make UDC work for them. They should be aware of the proce­dure to start a UDC hearing, what kinds of problems should be brought to a UDC hearing, and how to prepare for the hear­ing. Only when students are fully knovledgnble about UDC and its workings can it become a truly effective source of campus discipline.Eventually, we’d like to see the convictions from UDC hear-
ings become public as well. The campus community needs to be aware of the kinds of incidents that happen at CMU.Obviously, some balance be­tween the individual’s right to privacy and the public’s right to know must be struck. We’re not advocating that the names of the parties involved be released. The confidentiality of the people must be maintained because more people will come forward and press charges if they are guaranteed privacy.If UDC published a short de­scription of the charge, the accused’s defense, and the out­come, that would be an accept­able compromise. No details that could possibly give away that identity of the people in­volved, such as dates or specific locations, needbeincluded.This measure will also provide a check and balance system for UDC, which it sorely needs and doesn’t currently have. UDC can virtually do whatever it wants.But if the public were made aware of the convictions, popu­lar opinion could let UDC know if students thought punish­ments were too harsh, too le­nient, 01 t otally unfair. This type of public debate is necessary to ensure a fair hearing for all involved parties.UDC needs to become a vis­ible body on campus, and it can start by making itself better recognized and more under­stood among the students of this campus. It also needs to make convictions known because the public needs to be aware of what the judicial body is doing and to guarantee fair treatment to all students.
Carnegie Mellon campus 
lacks sufficient public art
When you look around the Carnegie Mellon campus, you are presented with a variety of visual stimuli — not only a di­verse blend of students but a diverse blend of architecture and landscaping. The architecture doesn’t always seem to match, but the relationship between the buildings has always been a vi­tal aspect of our University.Yet when you turn your mind to how art is integrated into the campus environment you will find CMU sadly lacking. Around campus there exist only a few attempts to introduce art into the public space — the large orange cubes that rest in front of Wean, and the large metal ab­straction near the entrance to Doherty Hall. This second piece seems to wander around cam­pus, not because of its light­weight mobile nature but be­cause it just doesn’t belong any­where.The need for new public art projects may not seem pressing but when you realize how a suc­cessful work of public sculpture can enliven an area, whether downtown or on a campus, you quickly become aware of what Carnegie Mellon is missing. Such works become a symbol and a reference point, giving the campus an identity for both stu- 
- f
welcom Ta rfje
uni vER^ny
ComtA I TTEé FOK
VMCIYHNE
Legislation promotes discrimination
Treasuafz Go plsuaCh
dents and new visitors to the school. Think what campus would be like without the Fence or the Clock.In the effort to introduce art into the public realm, the Uni­versity should provide an op­portunity for students in the Art Department who are inter­ested in creating public art. A competition could be organized wherein students submit pro­posals and the winner could go on to see his or her work com­pleted and integrated into the campus.This would give the art stu­dents at CMU valuable oppor­tunities to improve their skills at proposal writing and give them a chance to be involved in the completion of a large scale work. In turn the work would exist as a permanent addition to the visual aspects of the Uni­versity.Our campus has many areas that could stand to have art integrated into them, and with the proposed University Cen­ter there should be plenty of opportunities to include public works of art into the new spaces.Such works of art exist on other campuses, giving them a point of focus and interest. It is a part of their social, cultural, and intellectual life.
If I told you to think of modern-day 
examples of hate and fascism, you’d 
probably think of the skinheads in Ger­
many or the “ethnic cleansing” going on 
in what used to be Yugoslavia. For those 
of y ou who know anything about Oregon 
or Colorado, though, something else 
would probably come to mind.
In order to prevent “homosexuals” from 
receiving “special treatment” and “pol­
luting the moral fiber” of this country, 
the Oregon Citizen’s Alliance (OCA) is 
attempting to have a statewide referen­
dum passed that would, among other 
things, prevent anti-discrimination laws 
based on sexual orientation, require that 
public schools teach children that “ho­
mosexuality” is “abnormal, wrong, un­
natural, and perverse,” and legislate 
that the state not advocate gay lifestyles.
The argument used by backers of this 
amendment to the Oregon state consti­
tution is that gays, lesbians, and bisexu­
als plready enjoy the sane basic rights 
as everyone else. According to OCA, gays 
are seeking “special treatment” by at­
tempting to abuse current civil rights 
and anti-discrimination laws.
But the proposed referendum doesn’t 
stop there. In order to keep the commu­
nity “morally healthy,” the amendment 
also dictates that any state-financed 
school must teach students that homo­
sexuality is wrong. To ensure compli­
ance, gay and lesbian teachers would be 
excluded from the classroom.
The really frightening fact is that such 
a measure has already been passed in 
Springfield, Oregon. The unforeseen con­
sequences immediately started to ap­
pear. Hearing that the city library possi­
bly had a book about a child with gay 
parents, city counselor Ralf Walters 
called and requested a list of books 
bought by the library in the last six 
months. Walters was quoted as saying, 
“What we want to make sure of is that 
the head librarian is complying with the 
law and community values.”
It’s nice to know that fundamentalist 
groups like OCA are directly determin­
ing what books people may and may not
read. How long before books are banned 
or removed because they don’t fit other, 
as of yet unspecified, “community val­
ues”?
What we are seeing here, however, is 
not just a banning of books speaking 
about “forbidden” subjects. What we are 
witnessing is an attempt to legislate 
hate, discrimination, and bigotry.
A similar situation exists in Colorado. 
Defending“traditional morals,” the Colo­
rado for Family Values (CFV) organiza-
members often told people that if the 
amendment were not passed, churches 
would be forced to hire gay Sunday school 
teachers and religious leaders would 
face prison sentences for condemning 
homosexuality.
Both points are blatantly false. Reli­
gious entities that are participating in 
non-profit activities may discriminate 
in terms of employment. This idea is 
only natural —• no one should be able to 
force a church to hire someone as a
What we are seeing ...is not just a banning 
of books ... [it] is an attempt to legislate 
hate, discrimination, and bigotry.
tion is attempting to alter the Colorado 
state constitution through a state-wide 
referendum.
If this proposed referendum passes 
and the amendment becomes part of the 
state constitution, gays and lesbians 
would have no legal recourse for any­
thing done to them. According to the 
amendment, minority status could not 
be claimed and sexual orientation could 
not be used as a basis for discrimination 
suits or laws. Gays and lesbians could be 
fired, evicted, denied loans, and possibly 
suffer hate crimes — all of this done 
legally.
Imagine the same situations for blacks, 
women, religious peoples, or any other 
minority. Even though such laws may 
have pitiful enforcement in certain ar­
eas, at least they exist. The situation in 
Colorado is such that one day, gays, 
lesbians, and bisexuals might be com­
pletely excluded from society.
As most people have probably guessed, 
both groups are guided and driven by 
fundamentalist Christians. It doesn’t 
take much reading to discover that their 
campaigns have been hateful and 
defamatory. In Oregon, for example, “sta­
tistics” are provided showing how many 
times gay men ingest fecal matter or 
how they are more likely to commit 
crimes than heterosexuals. The OCA 
has even said that the Portland chief of 
police should resign because his daugh­
ter is a lesbian.
In Colorado, CFV has spread outright 
lies. For example, when handing out 
petitions to put the issue on the ballot,
preacher when that person’s religious 
views are against those of the church. 
Likewise, the First Amendment stands 
in the way of those who attempt to arrest 
someone for merely speaking for or 
against homosexuality (or anything else, 
for that matter).
With the territory ripe for growth, 
hate groups have already started to show 
up. The Campaign for a Hate Free Or­
egon, a group opposed to the proposed 
amendment in that state, had its office 
broken into. Among the stolen items 
were lists of supporters. Shortly there­
after, these people started receiving ha­
rassing phone calls. Violence against 
gay leaders and opponents of the refer­
endum has been reported.
The sad fact of the matter is that these 
attempts at outright bigotry are setting 
dangerous precedents. Why should it 
stop with gays, lesbians, and bisexuals? 
After getting a good foothold, OCA and 
CFV could go after unmarried couples or 
anything considered even slightly por­
nographic.
Loretta Neet, state coalition director 
for OCA, said, “We do not believe homo­
sexuality is a good lifestyle. We’re op­
posing the lifestyle, not the person.” Since 
Neet is obviously blind to the damage 
she has done and is advocating, I offer 
her this little exercise: Replace the words 
“homosexuality” or “bisexuality” with 
“Christianity” and see how reasonable 
the bill looks.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior chemi­
cal engineering major.
Liberal writer offers no-brainer politics
ilCCeln io dfsasuf
The Democrats seem to have turned down the volume on 
Ted Kennedy and Jesse Jackson and the Republicans seem 
to be backing away from the convention diatribes of Pat 
Robortson and Pat Buchanan. You might sense that there’s 
a new direction in U.S. politics. If hardcore left-wing and 
hardcore right-wing politics are fading, maybe it’s time to 
forget about being a traditional “liberal” or “conservative.” 
But what else can you be?
You could try being a “centrist” (or “moderate”), or you 
could try being a political no-brainer. Some people think that 
centrists and no-brainers are the same, politically speaking, 
but they aren’t. If you want to abandon traditional politics, 
be aware that you should want to be a political no-brainer, 
and you most definitely do not ever want to even think about 
considering being a centrist. Never.
Why be a political no-brainer? Most importantly, “no-
brainerism” doesn’t require much time or effort. If you are a 
Carnegie Mellon student, you probably don’t have much time 
to spare, so you have to be careful when choosing a political 
philosophy. You probably should adopt a philosophy that you 
can take with you when you leave the Uni versity. If you believe 
what your resumes say (or will say), you will obtain a “chal­
lenging position” when you graduate. It would be nice to base 
your political decisions on a theory that isn’t too taxing. You’ll 
want to relax at home after work.
No-brainerism certainly isn’t taxing, because there’s noth­
ing to learn, and you don’t need to do any research to find 
answers. Policy evaluation comes down to one question: Is it 
good for me? If so, it is correct. If not, it is incorrect. If it doesn’t 
affect me, then it doesn’t matter at all. Given this approach, 
you probably won’t agree with conservatives or liberals consis­
tently. This does not make you a centrist, but it does show your 
ideological independence. Mostly, it brings simplicity to your 
political decisions.
This simplicity is very different from traditional politics. To 
be a good conservative or good liberal, you need to learn a lot 
of standard answers to complicated questions. You have to 
learn an ideology. You have to learn how to “prove” a point is
Please see POLITICAL, page 8

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 19927
A PERSON’S
This semester, the campus 
phone system has been ex­
panded to include several 
new features, such as call 
waiting, call forwarding, 
and memory dial. Also, all of 
the old dormitory telephones 
phones were replaced with 
slimline phones. What do 
you think of the new 
phone system?
Keisha Odom 
Senior
Industrial Management
“I think the phone system is 
much better now. It added three 
way calling, the call waiting is 
good, should have star 69. Over­
all, it is a lot better, but there is 
still some improvement that 
needs to be made. The phones 
themselves are a problem.”
Sonya Wysocki
Junior
Drama
“I like the idea of call waiting 
because I have four roommates, 
and so someone is always get­
ting a call. I don’t like the new 
phones as much — I still don’t 
understand all the new features 
yet.”
Josh Knauer 
Sophomore
Environmental Studies
“I like some of the features of 
the new phone system, like the 
memory dial and stuff. I dislike 
the call waiting because it inter­
rupts your phone calls and is 
very difficult to turn off.”
Russell Molina 
Sophomore
Industrial Management
“Much better than last year 
because we didn’t have call wait­
ing then. The three way is great, 
and we don’t have to pay for it. 
It’s good, except for the trimline 
phones. You say ‘wait a minute/ 
then you hang up on them.”
Tanya Maynlglo/Tartan Photographer
Mark Kasperowicz 
Freshman
Managerial EconV Poli Sei
Joe Steele 
Senior
Civil Engineering
Karen Bryla 
Sophomore 
Technical Writing
Aaron Skalka
Senior
Drama
“It’s great, all the different 
aspects ... It has call waiting, 
three person at a time, separate 
billing between myself and my 
roommate so I don’t get bogged 
down with the bill.”
“I think that we should have 
star 69, because I get a lot of 
prank calls, and I don’t like that.”
“I don’t like the phones, be­
cause when you go to put them 
down you can hang up too eas­
ily. I do like the call waiting, 
though.”
“It’s a little more complicated 
than it probably needs to be. I 
don’t know many of the features, 
but call waiting is really good.”
Poor educational system needs revitalization
po_o MUazz
Public education is a necessity for both 
individual success and national growth, 
but every year it becomes more apparent 
that this nation is slipping in the area of 
education. If real solutions are not sought 
out soon, we risk losing the basis for suc­
cess in America. Even if you no longer 
have any connections to the public school 
system, its failure costs society tn unpre­
pared workers, higher crime rates, more 
drug problems, and a whole host of other 
social ills.
There are two basic approaches that 
are being proposed for changing the Ameri­
can school system. One is the Bush plan 
that calls for school choice, allowing par­
ents to choose where they send their chil­
dren to school. Bush’s plan also calls for 
national testing and standards for students.
The Clinton plan is based on his “suc­
cess” in Arkansas, which is questionable 
since by most measures he has improved 
the school system from horrific to terrible. 
He has instituted programs such as teacher 
competency tests, the taking away of driv­
ers licences from teenagers who don’t re­
main in school, and instituting physics, 
chemistry, and foreign language courses. 
These types of programs may be a start for 
ti.j worsf ™»-e. hut changing the bulk of 
the problems around the country will re­
quire programs that change education, 
not improve a failing system. Most of his, 
improvements are based on increased 
spending.
Although Bush’s plan in theory would 
allow the free market to improve the school 
systems, the reality would be that the 
worst school systems will be left with the 
same problems they had before. In the 
inner city it is unlikely that a parent will 
have many ch ices. Although national test­
ing is in the i if,ht direction, it alone does 
not have the po" i r to improve education.
We should not look towards pouring 
mo^ey into the system or turn to private 
schools as the answer, but look for real 
reform in our public school systems. The
improvements need to start at the local 
level. Improvement will come when par­
ents in local communities start asking 
tough questions and demanding better 
education. Looking towards the federal 
government for answers is only asking for 
more bureaucracy, something our school 
systems are already riddled with.
The most important factor in improving 
education is the level of teaching in the 
schools. There is very little motivation for 
teachers to teach better. Advancement 
andincreasein pay is not somethingteach- 
ers are likely to receive. Getting fired for 
not teaching adequately is next to un­
heard of because of tenure. Teachers need 
to'be held accountable, and this can only 
be done through rigorous evaluation. The 
end result should be the removal of incom­
petence and the rewarding of excellence.
Achievement testing is needed in the 
classroom to determine just how well the 
students are learning. I would not suggest 
national testing, but state and local test-
ing. Over time, these tests would weed out 
bad teachers, and give a basis for merit 
pay. Not surprisingly, teachers’ unions 
oppose plans that would challenge the 
competency of teachers.
Achievement tests should not be mul­
tiple choice exams that test next to noth­
ing of what students should have learned 
in class. I would propose developing 
achievement tests similar to exams given 
in a normal classroom situation that an 
individual teacher might develop, or some 
other more effective method. The testing 
would be on a rotating schedule, testing 
students of different teachers and subjects 
each year. Unlike the proposed national 
testing, the individual results would not 
be part of the students records.
Even though school is in session only 
part of the year, most teachers should be 
working for the entire year. During the 
summer every teacher should be working 
with his or her department trying to 
improve over the past year, reviewing 
student performance and improving the 
curriculum. Teachers can overcome lack 
oftop-grade books and equipment if they 
develop better teaching techniques.
The most important improvement 
needed in teaching is challenging stu­
dents to their maximum potential. 
Achievement needs to be shown through 
a better system than simple letter grades. 
Achievement should be in terms of 
achieved potential.
An obstacle thatteachers really cannot 
overcome alone is the attitude of the 
students. Parents have to be involved 
with their children’s education, and many 
today are too busy with their own lives to 
make sure their kids are doing their home­
work and striving to excel in school.
Schools need to be constantly hounding 
parents, contacting not only the parents 
of students who are failing, but those who 
get C’s and B’s when they should be 
getting A’s and B’s. No doubt many par­
ents will ignore the schools, but commu­
nication is necessary if there is any possi­
bility of improvement.
Inner city school systems have to con­
tend with the terrible problem of drugs 
and crime. These schools need to help the 
students that are willing to learn and 
create better programs for those who have 
severe discipline problems. Trying to edu­
cate, students in a war zone is a losing 
battle. Radical programs need to be de­
veloped that attempt to structure the 
lives of the students in the inner city who
have become out of control. Separating 
these students from the others will in­
crease the overall level of education, but 
programs of this type are often stopped by 
civil rights groups—helping to continue a 
cycle of poor education.
Getting a better education system doesn’t 
necessarily mean spending more money. 
Obviously a minimum amount of funding 
is needed, but the real improvements are 
not in how much we spend, but in how 
students are taught. Making sure more 
time is spent learning math and science 
than gym doesn’t cost very much.
If administrators are also given a sys­
tem of merit pay, there would be an incen­
tive to cut the waste that plagues the 
system. Without a profit motive it is un­
likely that schools will run efficiently. 
However, if the people who run the system 
know that how much they earn is based on 
quality and efficiency, the personal profit 
motive will make increased funding un­
necessary in many school systems.
Even in areas that really do suffer from 
a lack of funding, the answer is not found 
simply by raising taxes. This county has 
plenty of problems to solve, and raising 
taxes can’t be the answer for all of them. It 
would be better to make the tough choice 
now of eutting some social programs that 
minimally help people, breaking the cycle 
of poorly educated people that costs this 
country so much.
The Robin Hood mentality of New Jer­
sey Governor Jim Florio is an example of 
what not to do to improve education. Florio 
took away funding from better financed 
communities (who also pay the most in 
income taxes) and gave it to less funded 
school systems, expecting the wealthier 
communities to raise local taxes. This type 
of plan will not help the poor communities, 
with the fundamental social problems that 
plague education, and dooms the wealthier 
communities to further mediocrity.
Education is an issue that this country 
can do something about. Innovation is 
needed from teachers, parents, and local 
communities. Abandoning the public 
school system would be akin to abandon­
ing the future of the country.
R.D. Quinn is a senior civil engineering 
major and conservative Republican.
Education is an issue that this country can do 
something about. Innovation is needed from 
teachers, parents, and local communities. 
Abandoning the public school system would be 
akin to abandoning the future of the country.
THE TARTAN
Camegto Motion's Student Newspaper 
SInco 1906
Editor-irvChlef................Holdl Hoover
Managing Editor..........M.K. Rodgers
Business Mgr...........Timothy S. Blass
News Editor..............Brendan M'Feely
Fomm Editor...................Aaron Jenkins
Sports Editor......................Josh Under
Features Editor................Megan Dietz
Diversions Editor..............Maml Borek
Calendar Editor........Tara M. Seman
Magazine Editor......Stephen Glicker
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor...............................Daniel Frey
Photo Editor....................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr...................Tina L Urso
Personnel Mgr..........Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager..........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr.............Chad M'Danlel
Asst. Business Mgr.Sharyn Rotunno 
Asst. News Editor ....Kendrick Chua 
Asst. Forum Editor ....Richard Quinn 
Ruth Rasmussen 
Asst. Sports Editors ...Robby Flndler 
Andy Glendlnning
Asst Features Editor.....Laura Palanker
Asst Diversions Editor........Orya Dasna
Asst Art Editors..........Samuel Greenfield
Barbara Reyes
Asst Production Mgrs......Katie Swango
Derek Wah! la
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstader, 
Nathan Fullerton, D.A. Henderson, 
Ellen Hendrickson, Mark Hllller, 
Dexter Kobayashl
Senior Staff 
Dave Martin, Christian Restlfo, Mike 
Shapiro
Staffwriters 
Nicole Allen, Jeff Baslsta, Trinctte 
Chandler, Bob Dixon, Dan Gallagher, 
Erin Grunzke, David Hunt, Lubomlr 
KochanskyiJ, Chris Maples, Corrl 
Metz, Truptl Patel, Abby Schlff, Kelly 
Sterling, Jason Wyse, Leslie Zubaty
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Ramsey Hong, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Board, Matt Goldberg, Elliott 
Schlff, Jon Thorson
Photo
Dobble Bauer, Kovln Chon, Dlano 
Keen, Seth Redmoro
Darkroom 
Augustlno Kuo, Jessica Millor, Erik 
Ogan
Copy
Erin Bailey, Molly Dalklowlcz, Lonna 
Kydes, Patricia Williams
Junior Staff 
Roshnl Bhakta, Christian Borlo, Kuo 
Chlang, Tony doFlglo, Bobblo 
Dofflemyer, Nathan Dohm, Becky 
Elroy, Andl Franclonl, Madhav Ghanta, 
Michael Gibson, Otis Greene, Reid 
Hacker, Cheryl Harris, Mike Harris, 
Lauren Heinz, Mike Hofsass, Arun 
Jayakuman, Yerin Kay, Meron 
Langsner, Sung Lee, Nina Uang, Anne 
Lopez, Jackie Maher, Catherine Mar­
quis, Declan McCullagh, Laura 
McClure, Amy McGovern, Mac 
Mlrchandanl, Dizzy Murphy, Mary 
O’Malley, Michael Peck, Paul Platosh, 
Melissa Reaves, Cynthia Rodriguez, 
Drew Shefman, Ben Shelton, Andrew 
Sproule, Jon Stevenson, Eric Strauss, 
Jason Togyer, llir Toska, Jen Urso, 
Andy Vaughan, Lisa Vltalbo
The Tartan is the student nev/spaper of Carn­
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer­
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsyl­
vania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The editori­
als appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and p^HUcal cartoons 
are the opinions of individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense 
any column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and Include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withhold upon request. Tho Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 350 words. Tho 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Copyright ©1992 by Tho Tartan, The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy It deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Sklbo 50 (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: Tho Tartan/Box 17/Carnegio
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
17 percent funded by your Activities Fee.
All righto reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN II: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan » Carnegie Mellon » 8 September 1992
Government has no place in abortion decision
¿2
dhHHal mo _hCCRltnle
Yet again, another voice 
emerges on the issue that has 
plagued our nation for more than 
a quarter century. It iB not hard 
to see why abortion would be a 
stirring topic — striking listen­
ers with confusion, fear, and self­
defensiveness. Unlike twenty 
years ago when the issue was 
simply (though not simple at all) 
whetherterminatinga pregnancy 
was unethical and a form of mur­
der, the subject goes deeper than 
that now, because our entire po­
litical system has chosen to get 
involved in the debate — not a 
good move.
Now we are not only faced with 
choosing between pro-choice and 
pro-life groupB, we must also de­
cide whether an issue as crucial 
as this one should be decided by 
our government. Is America re­
ally willing to go back to a time 
when butchers with wire hang­
ers took scared young girls into a 
dirty little back-alley room and 
turned their very lives into night­
mares? With all the technologi­
cal advances and support that 
are available now, I do not see 
how this could even be a possibil­
ity. Lowering our standards in 
this way would be like going back 
into the Stone Age to re-invent 
the wheel. By no means am I 
suggesting that I would ever con­
sider having an abortion, espe­
cially without considering the 
other options available, but I 
think it is absurd to force a woman 
to resume a practice that could 
endanger her own life.
As far as making abortion ille­
gal, the politicians say there 
would be exceptions for cases Buch 
as rape. This sounds ideal when 
they say it, but how do they plan 
to make it work? Instead of pun­
ishing the rapist for his act, the 
victim would be put on trial her­
self to prove that she did not want 
to have sex, and if she could win 
thesideofthe court, avoid having 
a monster’s baby. If I were raped 
it would be very difficult — well, 
more like detrimental to my emo­
tional and mental strength, to 
have someone tell me that I have 
to live with a part of the man who 
massacredmy self-esteem, as well 
as any feelings of security I may 
have possessed.
Who is this supposed to be help­
ing, anyway? Does this give the 
real criminals one more chance 
to beat the system? More than 
likely, it would turn a rape trial 
into a witch hunt. No one would 
benefit from it, and the innocent 
would surely suffer. Too many
The moral and ethical contro­
versy surrounding the act of abor­
tion is a subject that each indi­
vidual must decide for him or 
herself, based on his or her own 
personal beliefs and practices. In 
addition to these considerations, 
we have one more very important 
issue to factor into our decision.
How do we look for “moral” guid­
ance on an issue as critical as 
abortion to people who turn life 
into a game of GI Joe? How can 
we respect the decision of a group
can we be sure that our leaders 
will have our best interest at 
heart, or are they only going to do 
or say what will bring in the most 
votes?
The controversy over abortion 
seems to have taken precedence 
over other major social issues in 
our country, such as drugs and 
the Violence often resulting from 
drugs. After all, iB this just ac­
cepting one form of murder while 
denying another? I suppose po­
litical figures have tuned into
Who is this supposed to be helping anyway? Does this 
give the real criminals one more chance to beat the 
system? More than likely, it would turn a rape trial 
into a witch hunt
fine lines must be drawn for such 
a system to work, and the courts 
cannot expect success from a sys­
tem based on one pre-determined 
standard that treats each female 
as generic. Each woman is unique; 
one rule cannot possibly take 
these vast differences into ac­
count.
of people which say it is. wrong to 
kill an unborn child, but at the 
same time gives the signal to kill 
innocent victims trapped in the 
midst of a political battle in the 
Middle East? With as many un­
dercover operations involving our 
national government as have 
leaked out over the paBt few years,
America’s feelings about abortion 
because they do not really know 
how to solve the other problems 
facing our nation.
Abortion is a personal issue, 
and this is why the controversy 
will never be resolved. I do not 
think it is fair to allow the entire 
country to look into the life of a
woman who is already faced with 
an overwhelming decision. Again, 
as far as the government is con­
cerned, what is all right for one 
individual should be all right for 
every other citizen, and the only 
way to fulfill this on the abortion 
issue is to allow each woman the 
right to make her own choice 
based on the circumstances in­
volved in her life. We cannot let 
our personal beliefs compromise 
the strength of our country, so 
freedom of choice and individual 
rights must remain in the fore­
front.
It would be a heavy burden to 
carry to play God. I would not 
want the responsibility of decid­
ing whether someone could have 
an abortion and live her life the 
way she feels is best, and I cer­
tainly do not think the politicians 
deserve that kind of power. Re­
member, pro-choice is not pro­
abortion, it is pro-women and pro­
women’s rights.
Bobbie Dofflemyer is a junior 
creative writing major and infor­
mation and decision systems 
major.
Political moderates work hard
Continued from POLITICAL, page 6
true by showing how it conforms to the 
ideology. Policy evaluation still isn’t too 
complicated, although it’s more compli­
cated than it is in no-brainerism.
If you want to be a centrist, however, 
policy evaluation becomes very compli­
cated. Centrists have to learn more than 
one ideology, and they must try to hear 
all arguments for every issue. While 
conservatives might read National Re­
view to reinforce their views, and while 
liberals might read Mother Jones to 
reinforce their views, centrists might be 
stuck reading both, sorting out good 
ideas from propaganda, and separating 
useful criticism from ideological raving.
A centrist, then, has to read more and 
think more than a typical ideologist 
before making decisions. A no-brainor 
floesn't have to road or think at all. A 
Centrist must be skeptical and must be 
awaro of hiB or her own biases. A no- 
brainordoesn’treally evaluate decisions,
so seeing bias isn’t important. Some 
people think the country would be better 
off with centrists, with informed citi­
zens. Maybe it would be better off if 
people stopped thinking about politics 
altogether; they’d waste less time argu-
going to school at Carnegie Mellon. If 
you had chosen to attend a lesser school, 
a good grade point average and a cen­
trist view of politics might have been 
possible for you to maintain. But you’re 
here, and you have to keep your priori-
... it's much too hard to be a centrist It 
takes too much time, too much thought If 
you are a student... consider being a 
political no-brainer.
ing about it. It’s hard to says if centrists 
are better for society than no-brainers.
Still, it’s easy to see that it’s much too 
hard to be a centrist. It takes too much 
time, too much thought. If you are a 
student and you don’t have any faith in 
partisan politics, consider being a politi­
cal no-brainer. Remember that you’re
ties straight; you can worry about gov­
ernment policy later.
After all, how important can govern­
ment policy be?
JeffBasista is a liberal who regularly 
tortures himself by reading The Wall 
Street Journal’s op-ed pages.
TO ALL LETTER-WRITERS
WE WILL WITHHOLD YOUR NAME UPON 
REQUEST, BUT WE MUST KNOW WHO 
YOU ARE TO PRINT YOUR LETTER
The Tartan reserves the right 
to reject or condenso any col­
umn or political cartoon. Let­
ters to the Editor aro opinions 
of authors who aro usually, 
but not necessarily, members 
of the University community. 
A lottor intondod for publica­
tion must bo signed and in­
clude the writer’s address and 
phone number for verification. 
Names will bo withheld upon 
requost. The Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 
350 words. The Tartan editor­
ial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publi­
cation.
Parking • University Center • Greeks • Student Involvment • Student 
Senate • Athletic Facilities • Women’s Issues • Enrollment • Student 
Health • Banking • Politics • Funding • Football Field • Student Affairs 
Constitution • Construction • Overcrowding • Contras • Housing • 
Sororities • Charities • Gymnasium • Dining Service • Environment • 
Recycling • Exorcise • Congress • Middle East • Weather • Advising • 
Sex • Geeks • Alcohol • Drugs • Music • Mighty Mouse ? Comedy • 
Woody Allen • The Muppots • Mail • Manure • Advertising • Disco • 
Crinu|taAJ|'Nighlcrs • Grant's Sox Lifo • iBhtar II • Hair • Mousse • 
Humi^^Kitions • SEI ».Presidential Search * WKCT » Computers •
unding 
irorities
Classi
• Stud|
• Clini Con
G ay Rii;'
___ _____ Ihol
rugs • Budget • Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedy • The 
Flag • Woody Allen • Funding • Student Affairs • Mayor • Construction
• Track Field ¦ Overcrowding • Constitution • Activities Board 
Gymnasium • Housing • Sororities • Charities ‘ Dining Service 
Environment • Recycling • Congress • Club Sports • Middle East 
Weather • Advising • Crime • Sox • Geeks * Corruption • Violence 
Alcohol • Drugs • Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedy • Woody Allen 
Funding • Student Affairs • Construction • Overcrowding • Housing 
Racial Issues ¦ Sororities ? Charitiea • Dining Service a Environment
BOOK SALE!!
MMtTfiiHI 
CITY BOOKS15% off new books 25% off used books35% off all Political Science, History, and LitCrit
Sale: August 29 - September 13
Mon. - Sat. 11-6 pm Tues. St Thur. 11-9 pm
Friday 11-11 pm Sunday 1 - 6 pm
481-75551111 E. CARSON • SOUTH SIDE
1992-93 Carnegie Mellon Official Academic Calendar
1992 Fall Semester Days: M-13; T-14; W-14; Th-14; F-14 Total=69
August 21 (F)............................................Freshman Enrollment Day
August 24(M)...........................................Upperclass Undergraduate Enrollment Day
August 25(T)............................................Classes begin according to a Monday
schedule
August 25-September 8..........................Add/drop period
September 3(Th).....................................Graduate Enrollment Day
September 7(M)......................................Labor Day; no classes
September 8(T)........................................Classes resume
October 12(M).........................................Mid-semester break
October 13(T)..........................................Mid-semester grades due
October 27(T)..........................................Last day to drop a course in CFA, CIT,
H&SS, IM, and MCS
November 25-27(W,Th,F).......................Thanksgiving holiday
December 4(F).........................................Last Day of Classes[See note below.]
December 9(W).......................................Reading Day
December 7,8,10,11(M,T,Th,F)..............Final Examinations
December 14-15(M,T)............................Final Examinations
December 17(Th)....................................Final Fall Semester grades due by 9 am
1993 Spring Semester Days: M-14; T-14; W-15; Th-15; F-14 Total=72
January 11 (M)..........................................Enrollment Day
January 12 (T).........................................Classes begin according to a Monday
schedule
January 12-January 25...........................Add/drop period
March 1(M)..............................................Mid-semester break
March 2 (T)..............................................Mid-semester grades due
March 16(T).............................................Last day to drop a course in CFA, CIT,
H&SS, IM, and MCS
March 22-26(M-F)...................................Spring Vacation
April 16-17(F-S).......................................Spring Carnival
April 30(F)................................................Last Day of Classes[See note below.]
May 3,5(M,W)..........................................Reading Days
May 4,6,7(T,Th,F)...................................Final Examinations
May 10-12(M-W)......................................Final Examinations
May 13(Th)..............................................Senior grades due by 12 pm
May 16(Su)..............................................Commencement
May 18(T)................................................Final Spring Semester grades due by 9 am
NOTE: The last day of classes for SUPA and GSIA may vary.
THIS PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

S^Tartans crush Juniata
gs?£5 Football team extends winning streak to 10
The rigors 
of cross 
country 
racing
“Pardon me, but I think 
you’re standing in my puke.”
In my semi-conscious daze 
those prophetic words were 
about all my poor brain could 
remember. My world was 
spinning, the ground felt oddly 
soft. I could hardly walk or talk. 
No, I wasn’t some standard 
DOA from a monster party; in 
fact, I hadn’t had a drop to 
drink. This painful memory is 
associated with the feeling of 
stepping over the finish line in 
my first cross country meet.
Cross country. The mere 
mention of the words strikes 
uncomprehendable terror in my 
heart. Thinking back, I fondly 
remember how I became a 
willing convert to all the major 
world religions through the 
miracle of five kilometers.
As I ran, sinking lower and 
lower into my subconscious, I 
prayed to every deity I could 
think of (God, Jobu from Major 
League, the Egyptian sun-god 
Ra, my physics teacher), and 
some that didn’t exist, so that I 
could make it to that finish line 
with my heart in my chest and 
my lunch in my stomach.
Recently, however, my 
version of long distance run­
ning is huffing and puffing over 
to En tropy to pick up another 
pack of cigarettes. But I still 
haven’t forgotten what it meant 
to run in those races. I’ve 
always said that to truly 
appreciate what it is that cross 
country runners do; you need to 
get up, run five kilometers at 
breakneck speed, toss your 
cookies, collapse face down in 
the grass, and listen to John 
Doe, Concerned Citizen, ask of 
no one in particular, “Is he all 
right? He doesn’t look so good.” 
And all the while you hope for 
an errant lightning bolt to 
strike him down.
In this way, you’d really get 
the feel of what kind of respect 
I give to cross country runners. 
Cross country demands more 
guts than the human body can 
deliver, but meet after meet, 
the men’s and women’s cross 
country teams do it again and 
again. And since I’ve partici­
pated in the sport, I now have 
the liberty of sitting neatly 
dressed at the fursh line 
thinking to myself, “Man, I’m 
glad that’s not me,” as I light 
up another butt.
So why do they do it? How 
can one mild-mannered stu­
dent, who might be your lab 
partner, your teacher assistant, 
or even your trustworthy 
roommate, decide one sunny 
afternoon that they are going to 
put on skimpy clothing and run 
away, far away? Is it hormonal 
imbalances? Anot’.ei I::vcn,ion 
of the Body Snatchers? Maybe 
they’re not really human at all?
I don’t know whether or not 
these questions will ever really 
be answered. But I think the 
Greek messenger upon the 
climax of the Battle of Mara­
thon said it best when he quite 
sincerely stated, “Aaaargh!”
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
Paul Platosh is a sophomore 
professional and creative 
writing major.
W* s.
0 *
Mlko Harrla/Tartan photoeraDhor
—r2Orsriu Ohe^kh-. Jhprn 1iap.R iann_nd hiran8 8u^un8uip on ^rrmkhee h-m_rn ehpm —hmai8hRG 1iap.R p-riu8 mb_-u on mOu Ihimhnpy 43,W H_-mriR rHui Jan_hmh CreeuduG
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
The Tartans’ home opener 
proved to be a victorious one as 
they defeated the Juniata Indi­
ans by a 34-0 margin. The na­
tionally ranked Tartans came out 
of the blocks strongly as they 
moved the ball 65 yards on the 
opening drive for a touchdown. 
Sophomore running back Jason 
Grusky ran the ball in from five 
yards out and senior kicker Fred 
Harding made the score 7-0. In 
the second quarter, the Tartans 
gained 70 yards in a mere 1:45 for 
a second TD. Sophomore quar­
terback Chris Dee ran the ball in 
nine yards, but Fred Harding’s 
extra point kick was blocked. The 
Tartans’ first half offense could 
not be matched by the Indians. 
The team’s defense held Juniata 
to only 58 yards of offense, com­
pared to CMU’s 184 yards, and 
the Indians were only allowed as 
far as CMU’s 37-yard line.
In the second half, the Tartans 
exploded for 21 points. Junior 
wide receiver Andy Van Sprang 
surprised many when he made a 
spectacular 57 yard reception for 
a team which is historically not 
known for its passing game. Al­
though Grusky fumbled the ball 
at the one yard line, CMU came 
back to score three minutes later,
led by his tricky running. Dee 
scored once again in the fourth 
quarter, capping a seven play, 68 
yard drive. Shortly before the 
game ended, freshman running 
back Mike Mathias ran the ball 
in from 15 yards to make the 
score a commanding 33-0. 
Harding’s extra point finished the 
game off at 34-0, pushing the 
Tartans to 1-0 and placing their 
winning streak at 10 games.
Individually, the Tartans 
looked veiy strong, both on of­
fense and defense. Running back 
Grusky led the team with a total 
of 61 yards rushing, Dee ran for 
67 junior full back Ed Ruland for 
38, and senior co-captain Griffin 
Pero for 25. Dee completed nine 
out of 18 passes for 179 yards. 
Junior fullback Brian Horton 
caught three receptions for 42 
yards, Ruland caught two for 52 
yards, and Van Sprang caught 
his one for 57 yards. The offen­
sive line looked strong, although 
they allowed three sacks of Dee.
On the defensive side of the 
gridiron, the Tartans were domi­
nant and stingy in the yardage 
they allowed. The defensive line 
prevented the Indian’s rush, and 
the secondary prevented any long 
passing plays. Sophomore strong 
safety Steve Voytovich, filling in 
for injured senior John Fratto, 
had a very strong game, making
three tackles while intercepting 
one. Junior inside linebacker 
Chad Wilson led the team with
10 tackles (including one for loss 
of yardage), senior inside line­
backer Jim Cooke had five tack­
les, and junior defensive back Jeff 
Gregor, senior co-captain Matt 
Pielert, and senior defensive 
tackle Jason Lange each had four. 
Seniors Bill Yurkovich and co­
captain Andy Helms, and sopho­
more defensive backs Voytovich 
and Joe Ferris each had one in­
terception.
Head coach Rich Lackner felt 
the team performed well, al­
though he feels there are still 
problems to fix. He was very 
pleased at the performance for 
the first game of the season, but 
wishes the team to improve on its 
shortcomings. The only thing on 
his mind is the next game against 
Washington University, St. Louis 
(September 12,7 pm, in St. Louis).
Coach Lackner feels that most 
of the holes in last year's squad 
have been patched, the few that 
they were. Although he seemed 
confident about his squad, he did 
not wish to speculate on the suc­
cess of the team. When asked 
whether he agrees with having 
this year’s team dubbed as “the 
best team he has coached [to 
date]” by Football Digest, he said, 
“Ask me in 10 weeks.”
Score by Quarters 
Juniata
Carnegie Mellon
4 Final0 0
13 34
Scoring
CMU — Q1,8:52, Grusky 5 yard run (Harding kick) 
CMU — Q2,0:09, Dec 9 yard run (Kick blocked)
CMU — Q3,5:37, Grusky 4 yard run (Dee mn)
CMU — Q4, 8:54, Dee I yard Run (Kick blockcd) 
CMU — Q4,0:48, Mathias 15 yard run (Harding kick)
Team Statistics
Score
First Downs 
Yards Rushing 
Yards Passing 
Passes — Att.-Comp 
Total Offense 
Punts — Average 
Fumbles—-Lost 
Penaties — Yards 
Time of Possession
Indivdttal Statistics 
Rushing
CMUt Grusky 1 l-61,Dee 13-67, Ruland 6-38, Pero 6-25, Juniata, Pole 
12-22, Kurzinger 6-21, Hoff 2-2
Passing
CMUt Dee 18-9-1-0, Neiss 2-2-0-0. Jan_hmht Kurzinger 20-11-3-0, 
Hoff 3-1-1-0
Receiving
CMUt Horton 3-42, Ruland 2-52, Van Sprang 1-57, Filicko 1-15, 
Jan_hmht Rieily 4-18, Pote4-27, Dean 2-15, Leslie 2--4
Carnegie MellonJuniata
340
214
26645
20756
Int. 20-11-123-12-4
44584
4-36.57-38.6
3-11-0
6-505-49
35:1124:49
IOu brsunyp pr--ui 
muhs r2unu8 a2 omp ^_ipm 
Ruhi r^ Un_Huip_mR PmOeum_- 
Pppr-_hm_rn -rn^uiun-u 
-rs2um_m_rn rn —hmai8hR 
_n mOu VumOhnR Creeudu 
IrainhsunmG PemOradO 
mOu muhs op rneR on omp 
pu-rn8 Ruhi r^ Hhip_mR 
2ehRt _m bhp ••,3 ehpm 
Ruhit hn8 Or2up mr dr 
G¦WW _n UPP 2ehR mO_p RuhiG 
Fuh8_nd mOu muhs hiu 
-r,-h2mh_np —rnRh 
COs_uen_-.e hm 8u^un8uit 
Lh-Ohue 7u_pp hm 
s_8^_ue8ui<8u^un8uit hn8 
Lh-Oue Vrain hm ^ribhi8G 
Crh-O_ndmOumuhs^rimOu 
^raimO Ruhi op Jae_u 
—Oh-.^ri8t h^risuimOiuu, 
m_su N_H_p_rn o Pee, 
Psui_-hnG

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992
IM News
and league schedules.
GOLF
Commissioner 
Dave Ekem, x5354 
Dates for the matches will be an­
nounced at a later date. You can play as 
a four person team, or as an individual. 
Tee off time is after 7 am. Clubs can be 
rented from the clubhouse. Green fees 
are $7 for 18 holes.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners 
Majors — Ed Pyro, x5515 
Minors — Jim Saxon, x5482 
Entries are due Thursday by 4:30. 
There must be three females and three 
males on the court to start the game. 
Last year there were 48 teams.
UPCOMING SPORTS
CROSS COUNTRY
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
You can run as a four-person team, or • 
as an individual.
WATER POLO
Commissioner 
Mike Kappus, x5371 
Entries are due September 17 at 4:30 
pm.
CHESS
Commissioner 
Buddy Fiett, x5371 
Entries are due September 17 by 4:30 
pm
BUSINESS 
The next meeting will be held Thurs­
day at 12:30 in the IM Office. We need 
officials for all activities.
Compiled by 
ROBBY FINDLER
Bucs shoot for Three-Peat
Y MUSIC SOCI Ely 
of the Jewish Community Center 
1992-93 RECITAL SERIES AT CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
MslislavSept. 20 ROSTROPOVICH Cello
One of this century’s legendary cellists!
RichardOct. 4 GOODE Piano
His New York recital called "Best of the year." by the New York Times.
ZaraDec. 9 KENJEBULATOVA Piano
"...great potential, vigorous power, and a very strong presence."
-Yoel Levi, Conductor of the Adanta Symphony Orchestra
EmanuelJan. 19 AX Piano
"...a keen musical intelligence and a heartfelt, unaffected interpretive style."
-Philadelphia Inquirer
FlorenceFeb. 17 QU1VAR Mezzo-soprano
"...intense chamber music-like tonal quality and interpretation."
-Berliner Morgen post
Jon
M-r. 7 K1MURA PARKER Piano
"He seems incapable of making a harsh or unmusical sound."
-Seattle Times
JoshuaApr. 10 BELL Violin
"...pays unabashed homage to the old school of the romantic virtuoso."
-Newsilay
STUDENT SUBSCRIPTIONS ONLY $55
(No student rates on single tickets.)
SUBSCRIBE NOW CALL 521-8010
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
The 1992 Pittsburgh Pirates are try­
ing to accomplish what no other profes­
sional sports team has ever done — win 
their third consecutive league title 
(Three-Peat).
Only a few short years ago, the Pitts­
burgh Pirates had hit bottom. The team 
had gone from World Champions in 1979 
to last place in the mid 1980s. The team 
lost 104 games in 1985, and did not have 
any chance to turn their luck around in 
1986 with the same personnel base. 
Player development had not done its job 
well, and the management did not want 
to make risky trades to improve the 
team. With general managers Syd Thrift 
and Larry Daugherty, however, the team 
slowly began to change. Key trades in­
volving Andy Van Slyke and Mike 
LaValliere from the St. Louis Cardinals, 
Bobby Bonilla from the Chicago White 
Sox, Jay Bell from the Cleveland Indi­
ans, Zane Smith from the 
Atlanta Braves, and 
Doug Drabek from the 
New York Yankees 
helped redesign the 
team. Although those 
players were never 
pinned as“superstars” in 
their former uniforms, 
the magic of Jim Leyland 
helped their confidence.
Players with superstar 
potential, such as Barry 
Bonds and Orlando 
Merced, were drafted and instructed in 
every level of professional baseball, from 
the early minor to the major leagues.
The risky hiring of manager Jim 
Leyland on November 20, 1985, was a 
sign that the Pirates wanted change. 
Never having progressed beyond Class 
AA baseball as a player and having only 
been a third base coach for the Chicago 
White Sox until being hired by the Pi­
rates, he held strong ideas and new 
philosophies that would change 
Pittsburgh’s baseball club. Instead of 
being a strong “power team” as they 
had been in the past, he focused on speed 
and consistency, and believed that the 
power would come with the rest of the 
offense. He was one of the first two major 
league baseball managers to use com­
puters (the other is three-time World 
Serios champion managor Tony 
LaRuBsn), and has videotaped numer­
ous players’ swings and pitchers’ mo­
tions. Ho has always been a “players 
manager" (by relating to the team ng 
though they aro people, and not just 
objects), and ofton spends time off the 
field with his players. IIo is a very 
organized manager who plans out each 
game carefully and strategically. IIo 
keeps file records on how oach of his 
players doos against others, and con­
stantly uses the statistics in games. Ho 
also is vory interested in touching
There’s a lot more than a great 
calculator waiting for you when 
you purchase an HP 48SX or an 
HP48S between June 1,1992, 
and October 31,1992. You'll get
a bonus book that’s good for free 
software, a free PC link cable 
and hundreds of dollars back 
on applications-like electrical 
and mechanical engineering- 
inemory cards, training tools, 
games, and HP’s infrared printer. 
It’s a really big offer. Worth more 
than $500. And it’s going to 
make your HP 48 calculator even 
more valuable to you. The free 
serial cable lets you exchange 
information with your PC. And 
the free software disk lets you 
enter and plot equations easily, 
do 3D plotting, and analyze 
polynomials.
C1992 Hewlett-Packard Company PG12203B
Pittsburgh’s youth the game, just as he 
has frequently participated in clinics for 
little league players. His new philoso­
phy seems to be working, with the Bucs 
at the top of the National League’s East­
ern Division for the third straight year.
In 1990 and 1991, the Pirates were led 
to their back-to-back titles by outfield­
ers Bonds and Bonilla, the “B Brothers.” 
However, free agency left the team with­
out half of the pair when Bonilla signed 
with the New York Mets for $30 million. 
Although the loss of one of their super­
stars seemed to be a crushing blow to the 
team, he has struggled in his first year 
with his new team. In a late spring 
trade, the team was also left without 
pitcher John Smiley, who was sent to 
the Minnesota Twins for future talent. 
Although fans and division rivals alike 
thought that this would not be the Pi­
rates year (again), the Bucs seem to 
have put together another winning blend 
of talent. The pitching staff doesn’t con­
tain any standouts this year, but Drabek,
Beyond all the bonuses, you'll 
have the right calculator for 
your most challenging classes. 
HP 48 calculators have over 
2100 built-in functions and 
offer a unique combination of 
graphics and calculus.
Head over to the campus book­
store now. After all, you don’t 
see this kind of deal every day. 
HP calculators. The best for 
your success.
HEWLETT
PACKARD
Mike Harrls/Tartan photographer
—r2Orsriu /ahimuikh-. COi_p Nuu hmmus2mp h 2hpp 8ai_nd mOu dhsu rn —hmai8hRG Yu bhp g,•f b_mO •zg Rhi8p 2hpp_ndG
Smith, Bob Walk, 
Vicente Palacios, and 
Denny Neagle have all 
been consistent. The 
addition of Alex Cole, 
Carlos Garcia, and 
youth such as Orlando 
Merced and Tim 
Wakefield have car­
ried the team to new 
heights. Van Slyke, a 
lifetime .280 hitter, is 
having a career year, 
and is in the race for 
the batting title with this season’s .330 
batting average, despite back problems. 
Although he isn’t driving in runs and 
hitting home runs with the consistency 
that he used to, Van Slyke is still hitting 
.394 with runners in scoring position. 
Van Slyke has developed into the player 
that Bonilla was, filling in the voids that 
were left when Bonilla went to the Mets. 
Barry Bonds is having another MVP- 
caliber year and Jay Bell, known to be a 
“streaky” player, had a very successful 
August, and is looking for a similar Sep­
tember. Gary Redus, a career utility 
player, has found a home finally in the 
Pirates' infield.
The mixture of talent, 
an excellent coaching staff, 
and supportive fans has 
once again made the Pi­
rates a leading profes­
sional sports team. The 
team will continue to flour­
ish, with fans and an en­
tire organization dedi­
cated to the succcss of its 
players. The theme of 
“Burgh-Ball” has brought 
fans to games, and their 
Hupport has aided the 
players in their groat suc­
cess whilo thoy aro atop 
the Nutional League's 
Eastern Division.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Commissioners
Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate — Kerry Sklkin, x5302
Minors -— Jim Saxon, x5482
Women Only — Molly McDermott,
682-3529
Final entries were due last Thursday. 
Games will be scheduled on the IM Fields 
at 6:30 pm and 7:30 pm. All schedules 
are complete. All teams should stop by 
the IM Office and pick up a schedule.
TENNIS
Commissioner 
Jon Ferris, x5502 
There were 45 teams last year, a new 
record. Entries are due Thursday at 4:30 
pm. There will be three leagues: Majors, 
Intermediates, and Women Only. 
Matches will begin Monday. Please check 
the IM bulletin board for playing dates

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 199211
It’s that time of year again - pro football has returned
We could start the return of the col­
umn the way it always is, that is, by 
pointing out what month it is, what that 
month means to the earth’s rotation and 
our seasonal climate, and how autumn 
wouldn’t be autumn if it didn’t have a 
particular sport that started at the be­
ginning of whatever month it is, that 
helped us to survive whatever season it 
is, and all that other rather extraneous 
nonsense. True nonsense, but nonsense 
nonetheless. A guy’s got to start a col­
umn somehow, though.
As the professional football season gets 
started, I’d like to ponder a few things 
first. What exactly is meant by parity in 
the National Football League? Sure, the 
regular season has been full of it. Teams 
ordinarily sporting losing records make 
it to the conference finals, and teams 
usually noted for winning thirteen or 
fourteen games a year nose dive to below 
.500. But, let’s look at parity from a 
much larger angle. When was the last 
time a team from the American Football 
Conference took home the coveted
Lombardi Trophy? The last time I re­
member an AFC team winning the Su­
per Bowl was way, way back when the 
Los Angeles Raiders crushed, rather 
easily, the Washington Redskins. I be­
lieve I was in the seventh grade at the 
time.
And this year, as always, no matter 
what, the same very few teams are ex­
pected to do well. Sure, there will be a 
few surprises, a few not-so-surprises, 
but in the end, it won’t matter, because 
the NFL champions will be from the 
National Football Conference, and the/ll 
probably win rather demonstratively. 
Normally, as in past opening columns, 
I’d predict a Super Bowl champion. I’m 
not going to do that this year, at least, 
not yet. I’ve mentioned the conference 
the Super Bowl winner comes from, isn’t 
that enough? That’s all that’s really im­
portant anymore.
All the Super Bowl champions look 
the same anyway, with their big backs 
burrowing through the offensive line, 
and the occasional on-the-mark touch­
down pass to a tight end. I want to see a 
run-and-shoot team win the Super Bowl. 
That’s all I really want.
As for the NFL over the summer, not 
a tremendous amount happened. The 
collective bargaining trials continued, 
as they always must, making them an 
annual event five years running. There 
were a few interesting personnel 
changes. Drew Hill, a wide receiver for 
the Houston Oilers, used the Plan B free 
agency option to leave Houston and will 
be catching the football in Glanville 
black. He’ll add experience as well as
talent to the young but impressive re­
ceivers in Atlanta. The Philadelphia 
Eagles acquired unimpressive Hershel 
Walker over the summer to bolster their 
nonexistent backfield. But the Eagles 
have their messiah back. With Randall 
Cunningham’s long-awaited return, the 
Eagles will be shooting for the division, 
and perhaps the conference, title. Stand­
ing in their way, though, is the loss of 
Jerome Brown on the defensive line and 
the loss of two division rivals.
The Washington Redskins are return­
ing and looking as solid as usual. The 
‘Skins have a number of titles to their 
name, but have never been able to re­
peat. Will this be their year to do so? Not 
if Jimmy Johnson and the Dallas Cow­
boys have anything to say about it. The 
Cowboys will start the year with a lot of 
injuries, and will probably start slowly, 
but they’ll be in the hunt when playoff 
season rolls around, and the/ll be hunt­
ing Native Americans.
There are more new head coaches this 
year than ever before, a total of nine. Of 
the nine, four are coaching in the NFL 
for the first time. The Indianapolis Colts 
will need more than just a new head 
coach as Ted Marchibroda returns to the 
head coach position in the wake of Rick 
Meyers’ dismissal at last season’s end. 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers battled long 
and hard to get former Giants coach Bill 
Parcells, before they finally settled for 
former Bengals coach, Sam Wyche. 
Green Bay got rid of Lindy Infante, who 
merely had a string of bad luck and some 
bad breaks as players go, and replaced 
him with Mike Holmgren, a first year
NFL head coach who spent the last few 
years as the offensive coordinator for the 
San Francisco 49ers. Another former 
offensive coordinator. Bill Cowher, will 
give coaching a try in Pittsburgh. Cowher 
will be the Steelers’ first new head coach 
in 25 years, after Chuck Noll decided 
that his time was done in Pittsburgh.
Tom Flores, whose leaving the field I 
much enjoyed, is back to coach the Se­
attle Seahawks. Maybe now since he 
isn’t in Los Angeles I'll learn to appreci­
ate him, but I doubt it. Chuck Knox left 
Seattle, and went to L.A.. John 
Robinson’s frustrated retirement last 
year opened the doors for Knox to return 
to the team where he started his NFL 
coaching career, the Rams. Cincinnati 
will be praising Shula this year. Not 
Don, he’s still in warm Miami, but his 
son, David, will be making his head 
coaching debut this year. Two of this 
year’s new coaches are making the big 
career move, from the college ranks to 
professional stints. Dennis Green, who 
coached at Northwestern and Stanford, 
may not prove to be much of a replace­
ment for retired Jerry Bums in Minne­
sota. San Diego, however, may have 
made a decent choice in former Georgia 
Tech coach Bobby Ross. But then again, 
maybe not.
Speaking of choices, it’s that time 
again, when I take a list of this week’s 
games and choose, by wand, wish, or the 
toss of a coin, who will win and who will 
lose. Atlanta will be taking on last year’s 
champs at RFK. No one wins in RFK, 
especially the Falcons. Redskins easily. 
The Cowboys travel to New Jersey to
play the Giants. The Giants haven’t 
played extremely well since their most 
recent Super Bowl victory. The Cowboys 
should come away victorious. Denver 
should hand Bobby Ross a fair whipping 
at Mile High Stadium. Buffalo at San 
Francisco would be an interesting game, 
and probably will be, but I have no faith 
whatsoever in Steve Young. Look for the 
Bills to start strong this year. Houston 
will be visiting Indianapolis in a par­
ticularly meaningless game, Oilers by 
20 or more.
The Jets were impressive in pre-sea­
son. The Steelers weren’t. Expect 
O’Donnel to lead the Steelers to a vic­
tory. The Bears are looking for a strong 
year, but so are the Saints. Take the 
Bears in the Superdome. Detroit, com­
ing off a spectacular Cinderella season 
are hoping to prove it wasn’t a fluke, and 
should look pretty good against the Vi­
kings on Sunday. Take Kansas City over 
Seattle in an early AFC West grudge 
match. The Eagles will fly circles over 
the perched Cardinals. The Raiders will 
beat the Bengals, despite Cincinnati’s 
coach’s name. The meaningless Battle of 
the Bays. Who will win this year? Who 
cares. Take Tampa, they’re at home. 
And to end the week’s predictions, the 
Rams will beat the Patriots.
So settle back this fall and watch some 
NFL action, if for no other reason, be­
cause I asked you to. Should be vaguely 
interesting, and if not, I’m sure it’s bet­
ter than what you could be doing.
Senior Staffwriter Dave Martin is a 
junior psychology major.
WANTED
TARTAN Sports Writers
(dead or alive)
Call THE TARTAN Office, x2111. Ask for Josh.
R
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION 
FOR STUDENTS WHO NEEDMONEY FOR COLLEGE
EHuiR pma8unm _p ue_d_keu ^ri prsu mR2u r^ ^_nhn-_he h_8 iudhi8eupp r^ dih8up ri 2hiunmhe on-rsuG
COMPREHENSIVE DATABASE: Our data base ol over 200,000 listings of scholarships and grants represent over $10 billion 
in private sector financial aid.
MANY AWARDS: Scholarships are available to students based on their career plans, family heritage and academic interests. 
UNIQUE RESEARCH: Our research department has located many scholarships 
including awards for newspaper carriers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders and non-snRESULTS GUARANTEED.
CALL ANYTIME FOR A FREE BROCHURE(800) 283-8600
Mai
One 'lOo'dci ItadiMÿ &)¦.
@ Handkmt Wool & Alpaca 
Sweaters fiom Ecuador & Peru 
(100s to Choose from!)
® Jewelry-Handmade by 
Latin American Artisans
A Sociolly Responsible BusinessCMU-””0 0CT'1
Outside Vendor mt Pitt 
forbes o Bigelow *
Mon.-Fn Noon lo 6:00
Strip District 
Saturday Only 
21st & Penn 
Phon* ¡412 921-7208
’ OCT 21,23,2¥
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET 
SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a 
monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering 
machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, 
completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and 
concierge services available.
(^luidyôidpsÇJfw
(412) 441-4444
5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, l’A 15232Toll Free 800-767-8-18;'
classified
Math-CS
Town Meeting
All Math-CS undergrads are invited to attend the fall Town Meeting in Wean 7500 September 8 at 4:30 pm
Allan Fisher, SCS Associate Dean for Undergrad Education will be discussing new 
developments in the program as well as taking suggestions for improvement.
Remember, you shouldn't be reading about this here, 
but on org.scs.undergrad.official! !
COMPUTERS
Beat Gateway 20001 486 5X/25, 4 MB 
RAM, 130 MB hard drive, 2 floppies, 1 
MB video, 14" 1024x768 SVGA non­
interlaced monitor. DOS, Win3.1, 
mouse, software, 2yr warranty. $1599. 
Leapfrog Computers, Inc. 681-6326.
Computers - high quality for less.
Don't let your school rip you off! We've 
got custom systems for you! Guaranteed 
to beat Gateway 2000! Experts at 
Windows and CAD. Hardware upgrades, 
consulting, software, and computers. 
Two free HD 3.50 disks with your call for 
catalog or quotation to Leapfrog 
Computers, Inc. 681-6326.
Macintosh SE 20 megabyte hard disk, 
extended keyboard, Hewlett Packard 
Deskwriter printer, all in perfect 
condition. Programs with original 
manuals including Microsof Word, 
Sensible Grammar and Correct Gram­
mar, Double Helix Relational Database 
Program, Data Disk Statistics Program, 
Superpaint, HyperCard, many utilities 
including HD Backup, computer covers: 
$1850. Also selling Macintosh Plus, 2 
meg RAM, extended keyboard, 
computer covers. Excellent condition. 
$400 or best offer. Call 624-6553 during 
the day, or 487-6636 after 6 pm.
PORSALE
Den style couch and 2 chairs, $75. Call 
521-6506.
Great church basement omnium- 
gatherum sale. Community of Reconcili­
ation, Bellefield Towers, Bellefield and 
Fifth. September 11, 1992 — noon -6 
pm and September 12, 1992 — 9-3 
pm. Home furnishings, appliances, 
clothing, books, live music, storytelling, 
food, drinks, baked goods (Hillary 
Clinton's and Barbara Bush's cookies). 
Call 682-2751 for further information.
Stereo Equipment. Dual 1228 Turn­
table $35; 10 band stereo equalizer $15; 
Pioneer HPM-60 speakers $50. Or $75 
for all three. Call 624-6553 during the 
day, or 487-6636 after 6 pm.
TRAVEL
JOBS
Alaska Summer Employment - fisheries. 
Earn $5000+/month. Free transporta­
tion! Room St board! Over 8,000 
openings. No experience necessary.
Male or Female. For employment 
program call Student Employment 
Services 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5236.
Babysitter for 2 small children near 
University. Occasional daytime and 
evenings. Experience. 621-3444.
Club leaders for Young Judea. 
Responsible, creative, likes working with 
children. September - April employment, 
Sunday meetings. Salary + expenses. 
Licensed driver, over 21. Call Y.J.
Regional Office - 521-4877.
Earn $1,500 weekly mailing our 
circulars!... Begin now!... Free Packet! 
Seys, Dept. 256, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 
38018-4000.
Earn $500+ weekly stuffing envelopes at 
home. Send long SASE: Country Living 
Shoppers, Dept. C22,14415-E 
Greenwell Springs Rd., Suite 318, 
Greenwell Springs, LA 70739.
Low student and faculty farws to 
International destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurall passes.** 
Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 
pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
SERVICES
Batik & tie dye artist seeks full & part- 
time help. 481-2911.
Professional typing of all kinds. Fast 
service at reasonable prices. 469-2287 (if 
machine, leave message).
Word processing (laser printing) 
editing research. Free pick-up and 
delivery. Joan 322-1161.
Let the Classifieds work for you! 
Send your ad with payment todayl
Send your ad with payment today. 
See your ad in print next week!!
Something to Sell? Something you 
Want? Let people know In the 
Classifieds. Send your ad today!
Classified Policy
Deadline
Deadline for submission of 
classifieds to The Tartan is 5 
pm the Thursday before pub­
lication.
Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00 per
week
21-50 words.........$5.00 per
week
50-100 words.....$10.00 per
week
•Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
•Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to 
display ads.
•Classifieds reach a wide 
audience.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

These CMU students are spending a 
SEMESTER OR YEAR ABROAD....
NAMEYEARMAJORLOCATION ABROADSunhoo AhnJRComputer ScienceEPFL/SwitzerlandMelissa AzurJRPsychology/SpanishSpainKate BazisJRArtGermanyRoberta BenamenJRArtGermanyTroy BenowitzSOHistory /PsychologyCentre de Tours, FranceMami BlakeSREnglishCentre de Tours, FranceShirli BrautbarJRHistoryIsraelColin BriceSRArchitectureAustraliaMaria CardoniSRArchitectureItalyJennifer DannenfelserJRArtCentre de Tours, FranceKevin DelafieldJRComputer ScienceEPFL/SwitzerlandKristina DemekSRMathematics/IMCentre de Tours, FranceGermain DeSeveJREnglishCentre de Tours, FranceAlexa DomeckSRFrench/European StudiesCentre de Tours FranceLuke EdwardsJRIMCentre de Tours, FranceDavid EwaldSRArchitectureAustraliaChristopher FerrenceSRArchitectureAustraliaJohn FungeSRECESpainMicah GaughJRMusicCentre de Tours, FranceMichael HinchcliffeSRArchitectureEPFL/SwitzerlandIvona HuszczaSOGCMCentre de Tours, FranceRichard KeiserJRMechanical EngineeringEPFL/SwitzerlandAngela KeslarSOEnglishCentre de Tours, FranceThomas KimJRArchitectureEPFL/SwitzerlandPeter KorianSRArchitectureAustraliaJu-kay KwekJRArchitectureEPFL/SwitzerlandHannah LopezSOArtSwedenHillit MeidarSRArchitectureEPFL/SwitzerlandJan MeislerSRPhysicsIsraelJessica MillerJRArtItalyScott MorrisonJRECEEPFL/SwitzerlandDan MoskowitzJRPsychologyIsraelIngrid MoultonSRArchitectureEPFL/SwitzerlandSarah O'ConnellSOArtCentre de Tours, FranceTrupti PatelSRSDS/SpanishSpainJames RappoldSRMathematics/EMCentre de Tours, FranceMatthew RauschJRArtEnglandBasil RichardsonSRArchitectureAustraliaJames RichardsonSRHistoryGermanyCharles RudelitchSOHistoryCentre de Tours, FranceAnnemarie SavianJRArtItalyBruce SherrodJRComputer ScienceKeio/JapanDavid StanleyJRMathematicsEPFL/SwitzerlandJoanna StormJRIMSpainRhoda StruipingerSRHistoryBelgiumMatthew YoderJRArchitectureEPFL/SwitzerlandDina ZiskinJRArtItalyMatthew ZolanJRArtItalySO CAN YOU! !
START PLANNING FOR YOUR SEMESTER OR YEAR ABROAD. 
COME BY THE OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION 
AT 219 SMITH HALL AND TALK TO 
EMILY BIANCHINI OR CALL X4969 
FOR MORE INFORMATION

---------------------------------------------------

The ‘0’ makes 
taste tradition
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
It’s a Pittsburgh tradition, a popular haven of the stars, and 
a one-of-a-kind dining experience all rolled into one. But that’s 
only if you overlook the french fries, arcade games, and general 
chaos that distinguish it from all the rest. All of these ingredi­
ents are what make it famous. All are part of the phenomenon 
we know as The “0.”
The “O,” short for The Original Hot Dog Stand, is a favorite 
snacking spot for CMU students. “It’s greasy, it’s cheap ... it’s 
the best!” says freshman architecture major Jessica Rivera. 
Where else can you run your cholesterol level through the roof 
and still have change in your pocket?
The “0” has been a local hangout for over thirty years. And 
although the times have changed, The “O” virtually has not. 
The restaurant has been family-owned and operated by Sid 
Simon and his sons since its opening. ’
One manager, Robert Booher, has worked at The “0” for over 
twenty years and during that time he says, “The faces have 
changed, but the decor certainly hasn’t.” Booher, who started 
as a counter worker and worked his way up to management, is 
surely an “O” expert. “Everyone comes in here. It’s just a 
famous kinda place ... one of those things you just gotta see 
before you die,” he says. “We’ve got everything. We got hot dogs, 
we got french fries, steak sandwiches, barbeque ... and the 
pizza’s coming right along — only $3.49. You can’t beat that.” 
H&SS freshman Mike Keating loves The “0”’s pizza. “The 
pizza with tomatoes is awesome,” he says. “It’s cheap and the 
atmosphere’s great.”
Why hasn’t The “0”’s popularity diminished after so many 
years? “It’s the variety,” says “0”-counter worker Harold Woods. 
“This place is a gold mine for variety. You can live off this place 
... have pizza one day, chicken the next... you could go on for 
weeks without repeating. You can’t get sick of anything — 
that’s why people keep coming back.”
Aside from variety, quality and quantity are also promised 
guarantees. “Our prices are fair considering the portion size,” 
says Booher. “A medium [order of fries] can feed three to four 
people—get an extra large and you got ten pounds of potatoes 
on your hands.” Speaking of potatoes, Booher estimates that
Please see THE “0,” page 2
Food* Glorious Food
Off-campus cooking 
challenges mind, microwave
lowed while riding a bike with ably buying it — frozen dinners, But I realize that it would bo 
my mouth open. Why do I men- vegetables, pizzas, waffles, and very wrong on my part to assert 
tion this? Much of this week’s desserts. The obvious reason is thatstudentsonlyeatfrozenfooda 
Features Section is devoted to that these are easy to prepare. — some eat pasta and popcorn, 
nutrition, restaurants, and vari- You can cook them in an oven or Both of these foods are very ver- 
ous other fun food facta. The only a microwave, or, if worse comes satile. Pasta is not only quick, 
foodlknowaboutis the kind that to worst, you can fill up the sink but boiling is all it takes. If you 
makes health experts cringe in with hot water and sort of boil want sauce on it, that comes in a 
fear. Because of this, I am going everythinginthepackage. That’s jar and if you don’t have sauce 
to try to give you a guide to the thegreatthingaboutfrozenfoods. just put some butter and salt on it 
most popular student foods and The downside is that they all sort — voili! Haute cuisine. Popcorn 
some of their pros and cons. of taste like wet cardboard, even is good for snacks and for feeding 
The next time you go to the the waffles; however, wet card- large quantities of people. If 
grocery store, take a good look at board is probably the only thing guests are coming over, pour vast 
what most students are purchas- you know how to cook from quantities of popcorn, along with 
ing. If it is frozen, they are prob- scratch. some oil, in your microwave and
soon you’ll have more popcorn 
than you’ll know what to do with. 
The advantage that pasta and 
popcorn have over frozen foods is 
that they are much cheaper. The 
disadvantage is that if pasta and 
popcorn is all you eat, your hair 
and fingernails will fall out from 
lack of nutrition. But, hey! You 
gotta give a little to get a little.
Frozen foods, pasta, and pop­
corn will all have their little nookB 
in the college students’ food hall 
of fame, I’m sure, but the undis- 
putable grand champion most 
important food ever invented 
from our point of view is pizza. It ; 
is the only food that every stu- ; 
dent is guaranteed to have at 1 
least tried. The advantages of; 
pizza are so many that I will only 
be able to list a few, so here goes. 
Pizza is fast, cheap, and, for the 
most part, warm. One could also ; 
make the argument that pizza is 
good for you. It covers all the food
Jru Vhmupt -rs2amui p-_un-u 2ir^upprit and C— dih8 pma8unm cumui 7uROiha-O un!rR h meal hm mOu 1ih8ahmu piease see OFF-CAMPUS, 2hdu 2
—ma8unm Cr^^uuOraput er-hmu8 rn mOu ^_ipm ^erri r^ —.ekrG
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I’ve been off-campus, at many 
campuses, for about eight years. 
In that time, I’ve learned that 
students are the same no matter 
where they live. The biggest simi­
larity that the family of off-cam- 
pus students seem to have is that 
their diets have the nutritional 
value of paste. Please, do not get 
me wrong — I am not trying to 
say that I am any different. The 
most nutritious thing that I have 
eaten recently is a bug I swal-
Restaurants vary from cozy to cool
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Asst. Features Editor 
& BOBBIE DOFFLEMYER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Isn’t it nice to just sit down in a restaurant and have someone serve 
you some really tasty food? I realize how incredibly bourgeois this 
must sound, but think about it—eating is one of the best (and only) 
animal pleasures allowed to humans in our society, and following 
close behind is having someone do what you say. So you could 
probably say that restaurants are perhaps the greatest institu­
tion in all of civilization in that they provide acceptable outlets 
for our libidinal desires. Anyway, all pontificating aside, our 
roving reporters checked out some of the culinary 
establishments in the ’Burgh, and here’s what 
they had to say (prices listed are for two people).
not. They even give you long hollow pasta noodles to use as 
straws. Call it a little piece of Heaven Italiano, and cheap, too. 
$10-$15 for dinner; 5859 Ellsworth Avenue.
Max & Erma’s is a traditional American joint with some neat 
little ethnic twists. The food tends to be a little greasy (espe­
cially the onion rings) but the Kentucky Pecan Pie is almost 
worth killing for, and you can’t help but love a sundae bar that 
looks like a big bathtub. $15-$20 for dinner; 5533 Walnut 
Street.
Pasta Piatto has a variety oftraditional and northern Italian 
dishes, including pasta, seafood, poultry, and meat dishes. It’s 
a good place to make Mom and Dad take you, or to take a date 
you want to impress. $25-$30 for dinner; 738 Bellafonte Street 
(off Walnut).
SQUIRREL HILL
Dumpling House is cheap, but there’s nowhere to sit, so you 
have to take out or have it delivered. The servings are big, 
though, and did we mention that it’s cheap? $10-$15 for 
dinner; 2022 Murray Avenue.
Eat ‘n’ Park is the quintessential family restaurant, except 
for at about 2 am when the bars clos? and everyone comes here 
for some of those Eat 'n’ Park all-American goodies. It’s open 
24 hours and has an all-you-can-eat salad bar — 'nuff said. 
$10-15 for dinner; 1816 Murray Avenue.
Gullifty’s is a good choice for the Sally (.When Harry Met 
Sally...) in all of us because the menu has just about every dish 
ever cooked, from gourmet pizza to the classic reuben sand­
wich. Also a good dessert place — bring the gang! $15-$20 for 
dinner. 1922 Murray Avenue.
The Italian 
Oven has 
the best garlic bread 
this side 
of the 
Mediter­
ranean — 
it looks like 
a pizza, it 
smells like a 
pizza, but surprise! It’s
Napoli’s Pizza is one of those fabulous pizza places that they 
have on every block in New York, but there’s only one hero so 
you better get out and enjoy it while you can. Cheap and 
yummy and almost an institution. $10-$12 for dinner; 2006 
Murray Avenue.
Sichuan House is a tasty, traditional Chinese place with a 
nice family atmosphere that we enjoy. $25 for dinner; 1900 
Murray Avenue.
OAKLAND
Bunznudders, besides having the coolest name of any cafe 
around, has ice cream and pastries that will keep you coming 
Please see RESTAURANTS, pago L2
SHADYSIDE
The Balcony has a casual, trendy atmosphere 
and lots of gourmet munchies, pizza, seafood, 
and stuff. It has live jazz every night and 
Monday and Tuesday are all-you-can-eat lob­
ster nights. Don’t forget your bib! $20-$25 for 
dinner; 5520 Walnut Street.
The Elbow Room has something 
for all occasions, including a cute 
little open-air patio in the back. 
They mostly serve sandwiches and 
salads, which are pretty good, but 
steer clear of the chili — trust us 
on this one. $15-$25 for dinner; 
57441/2 Ellsworth Av-

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992
Check out the 
Pittsburgh 
culinary scene
RESTAURANTS, from pago 1
back. And the cow mural on the 
wall has inspired many a late 
night discussion, to be sure. $3- 
$6 for ice cream or baked goods; 
305 S. Craig Street.
Moré’s Restaurant is a semi- 
formal restaurant which serves 
a variety of international dishes 
featuring seafood and beef. It has 
been in the same place with the 
same chef for 21 years, and we 
say, if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. 
$30-$35 for dinner; 214 N. Craig 
Street.
The Original Hot Dog Stand 
(The “O”) is cheap, greasy, too 
good to be true, and — bonus! 
The O’s servings are alBO very, 
very large. (Gargantuan.) You 
could probably eat for a week on 
a medium fries alone. And their 
16-inch pizza is only $3.49. $10 
for dinner, tops; 3901 Forbes 
Avenue.
Paradise on Craig is the only 
place to go for a vegetarian, vegan, 
or just plain socially conscious 
meal. Serving everything from 
“sloppy-Ts” to vegetarian lasa- 
gna to free-range poultry dishes, 
Paradise is a treat even for an 
omnivore. And the fresh-baked 
pastries are really yummy, too. 
$20 for dinner; 420 S. Craig 
Street.
Primanti Brothers is a sand­
wich shop with a twist — the 
fries and cole slaw comes in the
sandwich instead ofbeside. Swell, 
huh? They’re also staffed with 
good people. $10-$12 for dinner; 
3803 Forbes Avenue.
EF—E7YELE
Blue Lou’s Bar and Grill is a 
casual American place, serving 
traditional eats and munchies 
and specialty pasta dishes. This 
is a great place to sit and chat 
with your friends. And should 
one of your buddies be celebrat­
ing a birthday, try celebrating 
with Blue Lou’s cooler than 
cool“pole party.” $20 for dinner; 
1510 E. Carson Street (South 
Side).
The Cheese Cellar ain’t just 
cheese, though ifyou want cheese, 
there’s nowhere better to go. But 
it also serves its share of creative 
American dishes, and the cheese 
fondue is absolutely brilliant. 
$20-$25 for dinner; Station 
Square.
Tequila Junction is a family- 
oriented Mexican place serving 
quality, traditional south-of-the- 
border dishes. The menu is a 
newspaper. Ask about the fun 
birthday special. $20 for dinner; 
Station Square.
Wholey’s Fish Market is no or­
dinary fish market. This place is 
strictly high quality and low price, 
and the sandwiches are some of 
the best in the area. Cheap, too, 
and fast. $10 for dinner; 1711 
Penn Avenue (Strip District).
Collegians 
prefer pizza
OFFCAMPUS, from page 1
groups that those in the know say are important—the cheese is, 
of course, all the dairy product you really need, the crust takes 
care of the grain requirement, and if you get pepperoni and 
mushrooms, the meat and vegetable-fruit categories are all 
taken care of. If you’re strapped for cash, you can even skip that 
mushroom thing—tomatoes, from which they make pizza sauce 
(A-ha!), are fruits, too. But even with all of this, there is still one 
more fantastic thing about pizza — someone else cooks it. You 
don’t even have to look at the kitchen. There is one major 
disadvantage, though. It seems, without fail, that minutes before 
your pizza arrives, so will about a hundred of your closest friends 
who invariably hang around and say things like “I am so hungry. 
I haven’t eaten all day,” and “Man, does that smell good!” and “Is 
that pineapple on there? That’s my favorite,” until you shove a 
slice into their grubby little paws. I call this Sproule’s Mooch 
Hypothesis — maybe some enterprising young science student 
can do a study on this to back me up.
As I read over this hopefully helpful guide for the last time, I 
realize that I left out one vital piece of information on certain 
meals that are nutritious, tasty, and, most importantly, free. The 
only requirement is that you put up with some minor nagging, 
maybe a few boring stories, and a lot of hugging and sappy stuff. 
Go home and have dinner with ma and pa. And tell them I sent 
you.There’s no substitute for The ‘O’
Youarewhatyoueat
Do you pay any attention to 
the labels on the food you eat? 
Ever look at those little signB 
next to the food in Highlander 
or those pamphlets at Taco 
Bell? We didn’t think so, go 
make sure you check this out 
before you grab any more grub.
Highlander...
CO_-.un chmmR —hn8b_-O? 
44g -heri_up
•3Gl dihsp ^hm
l¦G4 dihsp 2irmu_n
3l s_ee_dihsp -Oreupmuire
6iun-O 6i_up 
'• 4,ran-u puiH_ndw?
4Wv -heri_up 
•v dihsp ^hm 
4Gg dihsp 2irmu_n 
W s_ee_dihsp -Oreupmuire
Taco Bell...
Ih-r?
•f4 -heri_up 
•• dihsp ^hm 
•W dihsp 2irmu_n 
4l s_ee_dihsp -Oreupmuire
Vuhn Vaiiemr?
4fz -heri_up
•3 dihsp ^hm
•¦ dihsp 2irmu_n
g s_ee_dihsp -Oreupmuire
Ih-r —ha-u?
l -heri_up
W dihsp ^hmt 2irmu_nt 
hn8 -Oreupmuire
THE “O," from page LI
150 50-pound bags of them are 
emptied on a good day.
The “O” certainly does get its 
share of business, particularly 
late at night Thursday through 
Sunday. “You haven’t seen this 
place ifyou haven’t been [here] at 
night,” says Booher. “[It’s] a ma(}- 
house on weekends,” says Woods.
Chef Antwain Ashby concurs: 
“On Thursdays we don’t cloBe 
down until about 4:30 in the morn­
ing. It’s worse on Friday and Sat­
urday —we’re out at about 6:30."
“The 2 am rush is the killer,”
ORIENTATION 1993
COUNSELOR SELECTION
IS UNDERWAY 
TO BE PART OF THE EXCITEMENT,
PICK UP AN APPLICATION TODAY!!!
POSITIONS WILL BE FILLED ON A ROLLING DECISION BASIS 
BEGINNING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14.
DON'T DELAY, ACT TODAY!!!
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF 
STUDENT AFFAIRS, ROOM 206 WARNER HALL.
QUESTIONS??? CALL TIM FOSTER AT 268-2073.
ATTENTION Undergraduate StudentsPresent your ID card at the Skibo Information Desk and receive your copy of the new
1992-1994 Undergraduate Catalog
FREE OF CHARGE Only until September 30 !!
After September 30, the Catalog will be available only at the Bookstore for a charge of $4.50.
says Woods.
Ashby agrees. “People come 
here after they’re done at the 
clubs. It’s crazy—we’re packed,” 
he says.
Even walking by The “O” on a 
Saturday night is a near impos­
sible task. “We’re a hangout, a 
meeting place,” says Ashby. 
“There’ll be a good 30 or 40 people 
outside just talking on a busy 
night.”
But inside is where the action 
is—so don’t let the flashing signs
or internal ruckus scare you off. 
“It’s pretty rough after dark,” say s 
freshman MCS student Seth 
Covitz. “The Tartan Grill is obvi­
ously a lot safer, but at the Top of 
the “O” [the upstairs dining room] 
you can kinda relax at your own 
table in a fun atmosphere.” 
Although the night life may be 
almost intolerable for the employ­
ees, the opportunity to meet the 
rich and famous can make it all 
worthwhile. Ashby himself has 
cooked for Bruce Willis and
Danny Aiello.
“Bruce Springsteen, Steelers 
players, baseball players... they 
all come in here,” says Booher. 
“That short guy from Taxi, 
what’s his name... Danny DeVito 
— he comes here for lunch all 
the time, and I don’t blame him 
... he’s a nice guy.”
To meet the stars, to partake 
of some true Pittsburgh tradi­
tion, or just to devour some 
cheese fries, check out The “Q”. 
It’s a classic.
PITTSBURGH'S MOST COMPLETE VINTAGE CLOTHING STORE 
OVERCOATS • SUITS • JACKETS • DRESSES • SHIRTS • SWEATERS • PANTS • SKIRTS 
TUXES • TIES • BELTS • II ATS • GLOVES • SHOES • ROBES • COSTUME JEWELRY
>SMI ELLSWORÏII AVENUE • SHADYSIDE • 361-3368

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992L3
SPECIAL RIP-OUT PAGE!
Somewhere between Mom and Highlander...
Chicken Divan
2 pkg. frozen broccoli spears, 
cooked
11/2 lb. cooked chicken, sliced
2 cans cream of chicken soup
1 c. grated Cheddar cheese 
:t 1/2 tsp. paprika
curry to taste 
potato chips, crushed
Arrange broccoli in bottom of 13x91/
2 inch pan. Cover with chicken. Pour 
Z undiluted soup overall. Sprinkle with
cheese, paprika, curry, and crushed 
potato chips. Bake at400 degrees for 
30 minutes. Serves four-six people.
courtesy cUsuRazk cUzken chezlus dhhO hC pl—a2ls
French Onion Soup
3 medium onions, sliced thinly
3 Tbsp. butter
1 1/2 c. shredded Swiss cheese
2 cans consumme or beef broth
1 1/2 c. water
6 slices toasted French bread
In a 3-quart casserole, place onions 
and butter. Cover. Microwave on high 
for 10 minutes, stirring after five 
minutes. Add broth and water. Cover 
and microwave on high for eight to 10 
minutes. Spoon soup into six individual 
bowls and top each serving with one 
slice toasted bread. Divide cheese 
equally among servings. Microwave 
up to three bowls at a time, allowing 45 
seconds to one minute per serving. 
Makes six big bowls of hot yummy 
soup.
courtesy cUsuRazk cUeuken chezlus dhhO hC pl—a2ls
The Great Tuna Melt
1 can tuna fish
1/4 c. mayonnaise to taste
2 Tbsp. each
chopped sweet pickles 
chopped celery 
2 hardboiled eggs, chopped 
2 English muffins or 4 bread slices
4 slices American cheese
Mix all Ingredients together in a big 
bowl, except bread and cheese. 
Spoon tuna mixture onto each slice 
of bread. Cover each with a slice of 
cheese. Toast on medium-high in 
toaster oven or broiler. Makes four 
Great Tuna Melts.
Waldorf Salad
2 medium apples, coarsely chopped 
(about 2 c.)
2 medium stalks celery, chopped 
(about 1 c.)
1/2 c. mayonnaise or salsd dressing 
1/3 c. coarsely chopped nuts
Toss all ingredients. Serve on salad 
greens if desired, or substitute pears 
for the apples.
courtesy dluun Teh—Ole•s g8ur mzzaSlesfen ThhOHhhO
Broccoli-Cheese Quiche
1 c. broccoli florets
2 eggs
2 scallions
1 c. cottage cheese 
1/4 c. buttermilk 
9-inch pie shell (frozen) 
dash nutmeg
Steam broccoli approximately five 
minutes (until firm but not stringy). Blend 
cottage cheese and buttermilk. Add all 
other ingredients besides pie shell and 
broccoli. Pour into pie shell and then 
put the broccoli in. Bake at450degrees 
for 20 minutes. Lower temperature to 
350 degrees for 10-15 minutes until 
golden brown. Enjoy.
World’s Best and Easiest 
Teryaki
3 equal parts of:
soy sauce, sugar, and water 
Season to taste with:
garlic, sesame oil, ginger
Mix together and marinate meat for at 
least 24 hours. Cook on grill or broil in 
oven. Serve with steamed rice and
save sauce to put on rice.
Fried Rice
2 eggs
soy sauce to taste 
leftover rice (important: rice must 
be old)
leftover meat, veggies, whatever, 
diced
Scramble eggs and set aside until 
cold. Put soy sauce in frying pan.
Add rice and cook until light brown. 
Add leftovers; cook until rice is a 
darker color brown. Add eggs and 
stir. Serve hot.
The Ultimate Omelet
3 eggs
diced peppers 
diced onions 
diced potatoes
2 slices American cheese
Put diced pepper, onions,and potatoes 
Into skillet. Cook until top of potatoes 
and onions start to brown. Set potato/ 
pepper/onion mixture aside. Cook eggs 
until sides and bottom turn solid and 
golden brown. Add potato, pepper, and 
onion mixture. When egg is almost 
formed, add cheese, let it melt, and 
help yourself.
Strawberry Salad
1 c. sour cream
2 (10 oz. pkgs.) frozen strawberries
1 can crushed pineapple, drained
2 or 3 ripe bananas, diced
2 pkg. (3 oz.) strawberry Jell-0
Dissolve Jell-O with two cups hot water, 
then thaw frozen strawberries in Jell- 
O. Add crushed pineapple and 
bananas. Pur half of mixture into 9 x 12 
inch dish and let harden in refrigerator. 
Spread sour cream on hardened 
mixture, then add second half of mixture 
and let harden.
courtesy dluun Teh—Ole•s g8ur mzzaSlesfen ThhOHhhO
Cheesecake Tarts
2 (8 oz.) pkg. cream cheese
2 eggs 
1 tsp. vanilla 
3/4 c. sugar 
1 box vanilla wafers 
1 can cherry pie filling
Whip first four ingredients till light and 
fluffy (about five minutes). Put vanilla 
wafers in the bottom of 18 or 19 cupcake 
liners in muffin pan. Spoon about two 
tablespoons of cheese mixture into 
each cup. Bake at 375 degrees about 
15 minutes. Cool 45 minutes. Top with 
cherry pie filling, chill for one hour, and
serve.
Compiled by Megan 
Dietz, Laura Palanker, 
Marni Borek, Daniel Frey, 
and Kendrick Chua.

---------------------------------------------------

(
{fi)o I take TAe M/crofc/ology of Po^enti'dlly 
Pafhogen/c Betd-Hemolytic f+repfoCocti.
Or’ The £vo!u+/on of the fltuat/on Comedy. 
Do I really want to live with Judy the
ne at fteak-again. I can’t believe I've 
got un+il Monday 1o decide if I'm 3 Biology 
ot* a Theatre major. Have I Completely lost 
it ? Will I ever be able to make 3 dec Won, 
again? V/ait a rninutejufi ye/ferday, I w3/ 
able to pick a phone company with 
absolutely no problem...Yei,there if hope."
W
ith AT&T, choosing a phone company is easy Because when you sign up for AT&T Student Saver Plus, you can pick from a complete line of products and services designed specifically to fit your needs while you’re in college. Whatever they may be.Our Reach Out* Plans can save you money on AT&T Long Distance, no matter where and when you call. Call Manager will separate your
rmr/tudent /aver pM/ for off fempu/ 
Studenif
AT&T Long Distance calls from the ones your roommates make. And the AT&T Calling Card makes it easy to call from almost anywhere to anywhere. Also, when you sign up for AT&T, your first call is free*And with AT&T, you’ll get the most reliable long distance service. AT&T Student Saver Plus. It’s the one college decision that’s easy to make.
If you’re an off-campus student, sign up for 
AKKET Student Saver Plus by calling 1800 654-0471 Ext. 851.AT&T
C W1 AT»T. • fcwll rwrtw ont 1.1 ATM LB Cmifo* lo bb nliMn ArwVduW. euepyvpua nW« «rvJ wimd dim* hunt on run cflxtiw >bu n*iU w n*w mil**» dnvnlii* on »tmr « »hm )iu all Oflcr limlnl u ax cmlfiau net Hud«*

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992 L5
Mike Harris/ Tartan Photographer
Mad about plaid, babv...
IOu «_em_u Vhn8 -Ouuip mOu Ihimhnp rn mr H_-mriR hm —hmai8hRyp dhsuG IOu ^rrmkhee muhs brn mOu_i 
dhsu hdh_npm Jan_hmh kR mOu p-riu r^ 43,WG 6ri sriu p2rimp -rHuihdut puu 2hdu gG
Tartan Features Section callx21U 
to write
About to turn 18? There’s a little 
¡omething we need you to do. If 
you’re a guy within 30 days of your 
birthday, stop by the post office and 
register with Selective Service. It 
(akes only five minutes, and it will 
make you eligible for federal jobs, job 
(raining—even student loans.
Register With Selective Service. 
It’s Quick. It’s Easy. And It’s The Law.
SPECIALIZING IN 
STUDENT 
HOUSINGIgBCHARLES J. GREVE & CO.
REAL ESTATE 
308 McKEE PLACE 
PITTSBURGH. PA 15213 
(412) 681-0102
CAROLINE O'CONNOR
vrdum extra hmaoerv
Earn $200-$500 weekly 
mailing travel brochures. For 
ijifonmation send a stamped 
addressed envelope to: 
Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, 
Miami, FI 33161
JMS BUSINESS MACHINES
COPY MACHINES
Hundreds to choose from 
new, repossessed, or end of lease models
NO REASONABLE OFFER REFUSED
P.O. Box 393 
1 Main Street 
Slovan, PA 15078
947-2679
Ask for Dick or Henry
'A Fair in the Park’ 
comes to Shadyside
Mellon Park hosts craft 
fair and sale this weekend
By MELISSA REAVES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Leather bags, woven floor mats, 
batik prints, clay pieces, jewelry, 
porcelain, hand-blown glass, and 
pottery are among the pieces of 
art to be shown at “A Fair in the 
Park,” a 
contem- 
p o r a r y 
craft show 
and sale 
sponsored 
by the 
Craftsmen's 
Guild of 
Pitts- 
burgh and 
Citiparks.
The work 
of over 
100 art­
ists will be 
featured 
this week­
end in 
Mellon 
Park, 
many of 
whom 
have shown their work interna­
tionally.
Kay Christy, the director of “A 
Fair in the Park” for the past four 
years, has been involved with the 
fair since 1973, and has seen it 
grow in breadth and depth dur- 
ingthattime. “The range is amaz­
ing,” she says. “For example, in 
clay, we’ll have everything from 
standard functional stoneware to 
the most delicate of porcelain ob-
jects. In jewelry, you’ll see every­
thing from top-of-the-line 14 
karat gold to little painted pil- 
low-pins.”
Betsy Hoffman, another of the 
fair’s organizers, is a member of 
the Craftsmen’s Guild and a CMU 
graduate. She has spent 20 years 
perfect­
ing the 
craft of 
weaving. 
Hoffman 
sells her 
work all 
through 
Pitts­
burgh 
and na­
tionally, 
and she 
says, “I 
enjoythe 
Fair be­
cause of 
the ca­
sual atti­
tude. It’s 
really 
friendly 
among
all of the participants.” She also 
says that the Craftsmen’s Guild 
“maintains a high quality of work 
among its members.”
Saihou Njie is also a member of 
the guild who plans to partici­
pate in this year’s fair. A native 
of Gambia, Njie now makes his 
home in Pittsburgh, where he 
concentrates on batik art.
Another artist in this year’s 
fair is Bemie Zimetbaum, a 20-
year resident of Pittsburgh, who 
specializes in crafting “soft 
leather bags of all types, from 
deerskin pouches to backpacks,” 
he says. Although this is his first 
year participating in the festival, 
he has spent 20 years working 
with leather, and he states his 
philosophy as, “Bags should be 
attractive and functional.”
In addition to the craftwork 
displays, there will be demon­
strations, food, and entertain­
ment provided by local bands on 
Saturday, and Christy encour­
ages everyone to come out and 
enjoy the festivites.
“It’s all free,” she says. “Every­
one is welcome to camp out in 
front of the stage and stay for the 
entertainment.”
Entertainers scheduled to per­
form include folk bands Front 
Street and Ploughman’s Lunch, 
country performers The Gash- 
ouse Band, and singer/pianist 
Nancy Day.
The fair will also include glass- 
blowing demonstrations every 
hour and, weather permitting, 
hot-air balloon rides on Sund' 
afternoon. A hands-on craits 
booth for children will also be set 
up, and the “bubble man” will be 
present with giant bubble-mak- 
ing wands.
A Fair in the Park will be pre­
sented this weekend: Friday from 
1-7 pm, Saturday from 10 am-7 
pm, and Sunday from 10 am-5 
pm at Mellon Park located at 
Fifth and Shady Avenues in 
Shadyside.
^•5 L • A C o ex •G E — of —9UAN L e_ I • L « M « Ao • A T oK — I oAC
• ,GGG:Y»»
0„Ce'er»**—•
/?/r
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO STMT SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.
C
an’t afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can’t afford not to. 
Not whenyou realize that your retirement 
can last 20 to 30years or more. You'll want 
to live at least as comfortably then as you 
do now. And that takes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take 
advantage of tax-deferral and give your 
money time to compound and grow. 
Consider this: set aside just $100 each 
month beginning at age 30 and you can 
accumulate over $192,539* by the time 
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and 
yoii'II have to budget $227each month 
to reach the same goal.
Even ifyou’re not counting the years to 
retirement, you tan count on'FIAA'-CREF 
to help you build the future you deserve^- 
with flexible retirement and tax-d^fe/red;, 
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest­
ment choices, and a record of personal 
service that spans 75 years. ;.
Over a million people in education and 
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of 
their list for retirement planning. Why not. 
join them?
Call today and learn how simple it is 
to build a secure tomorrow whenyou 
have time and TIAA-CREF working on 
yourside.
Sturt planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.0”
'Assuming an interest raU of 7.5% credited to TIAA Retirement Annuities. This rale is used solely lo show the pouter and effect of compounding. Lower or bigler rates would produce very different results. CREF urtfieates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services.

---------------------------------------------------

> 3Ui°*
omi
Give us comics,, 
or give us death!
'& woacd. pr&fj&r the, comics though,
-cfOu. wist to sulm/t comics,
cafflx2171 andas£/for Som or Don.
Calvin and Hobbes? A daily feature? Not in The Pittsburgh Press.
WUERE DO TUE CANDIDATES STAND OH DINOSAUR. RESEARCH ?./ THAT'S WHAT T WANT TO KNOW/
wuicu Antiw anw rlu AtmsAneumcimemvd S,yohfcM PLANK? TVAEM CANT IGNORE THE DINOSAUR SOT^.'
rg cmm.Tw AncTutw ii. us,WELL THROW IKE ELECTION.' WELL STAS HOME' WERE DISAFFECTED, DISENFRANCHISED AUD DlSO»BULATED/
WE SINGLE-ISSUE ACTW\STS LIKE TO HAVE OUR.'WOT BUTTONS" PUSHED.
Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 
Check it and see. We dare you.HEX DAD, KNOW WHAT I FIGURED OUT? THE WEANING OF WORDS ISN\n orPuT ibrcwpANX WORD CM tAEAN AmTUlNG.'
BX GW1NG WORDS NEW MEANINGS, ORDINARE ENGLISH CAM BECOME AN EXCLUSIONARY CODE/ TWO GENERATI OHS CAN BE DWIDED BX TUE SAME LANGUAGE /
TO THAT END, 11L BE INDENTING NEW DEFINITIONS FOR COMMON WORDS. SO WELL BE UNABLE TO ^ CotAMUHICATE.
Imc’i wmk iarcf lnt$P7THATS TOTALLS FAB. SPAM p IT'S FAR OUI_. LUBRICATED/WELL, I'M J V hcrt PHASING. I W X/.h
CAN VOU 
TAKE ME 
TO SCHOOL, 
MOMMY*
I THOUGHT YOUR. 
FATHER WAS TAK­
ING YOU TOPAY...
' y[ FIB'S TOOBLffl TEACHING MB 
HOW TO PLAY 
5UPEPMAPJ03.
1 PONT 
IUANTTO 
BELATE 
AGAIN.
EXCELLENT! SEE 
MB STOMP THE: 
GOOMBA, SON7 
SON*
I'tA SEEING IF ITS HOF ENOUGH TO FRX AN EGG OH THE SIDEWALK.
VWMCHN DOIN' ?OA0U, ILL BET 
ITS HOTTER OH
sfr aduzdih
YOU SEEM PO YOU KNOW
A BIT PRE - HOW TO GET BY
OCCUPIED THE HAMMER
TOPAY, MR. BROTHERS IN
REPFERN. MAPJO >--------------------------* — 3* \
MR. REPFERN *
HAVE YOU GOT A REPORT?
FEW MINUTE?'TP OH...SURE..
IOVE TOGO OVER FINE...
JEFFS REPORT \_____
((jTTTZb YOU. /fàkzz:
WHAT?.. 
OH, OKAY, 
SON...
YOU CAN KJSS YOU7 
LEAVEMB OH...NO... 
HERB, PAP. 1 WON'T... 
P0N7 KISS) L-—s.
ME, OKAY* \
WE'ME [fimi MAM BE WE' LEFT WITHOUT CAN DECLARE ITS POSTER THIS THE*,1 CHILD. ^TCAL'MN DECADI
I HATE HEARING ABOUT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO UNBR\DLED GREED, THE CONSPICUOUS CONSUMPTION! OF WEALTH, AND THE g GET- AHEAD- BX • ANI- MEANS CREDOS .
Tmc’i iuee lu riw neeOVER / I DIDN'T GET TO PARTICIPATE/ THEN CAN'T CHANGE THE GAME BEFORE I’M OLD ENOUGH To PLAX / -, ITS NOT FAIR.' __,
I JUST WANTBP10 GO 
OVER JEFF'S) RETORT 
WUHYOa, MK REPFERN. 
MIR SON'S HAP A 
VFRY GOOP ^ YMR: \ .S
ON A 1TO-S 
RATING SCALfi, HE HAS 
A SIN LANGUAGE AFCTS, 
A P IN SOCJAL PEVEIDP- 
MENT, A 'I IN BOPY <\ 
AWARENESS 5KIUS.. (\
YEAH, BUT MAYBE 
WHAT'S WRONG NOT QUITE 
mil HIM ? POES YET. WE'LL 
HENEEPTOSee KEEP AN 
A SPECIALIST-' EYE ON FT,
_ / OKAY? <
A 4? HE'S A4 IS 
ONLY GOT VERYSATIS- 
A 4 IN BODY FACTORY, . 
AWARENESS MR. REPFERN. 
SKJU-S7 I
bam 0nc Y 6y wriircv%I HUG ?J ONJER HERE:';I ATE A POPSICLE AND NOW MX TONGUE IS PURPLE, AND m FACE \S ._____
A snow,BLOTCUX RED.A/r^L?
MX FINGERS ARE GUMMX, MX ARMS ARE TACKS WHERE I WIPED MX MOUTH, MS SHIRT \S DRIPPING VIET, AND THE STICK IS STUCK TO MX POCKET.
I'M A SXRUPX MESS:I C/\N ASSURE yOU, MR. 
RBPFm, IH A TS A 
TERRIFIC- REPORT. WE'RE ALL VERY HAPPY WITH 
JEFFREY'S PROGRESS 
_ THIS YEAR...
LISTEN, SINCE YOU'RE HERB, 
IWONPER IF ICCUID ASK 
YOU A FAVOR. MELIKS TO 
HAVE PARENTS TALX TO 'TUB 
CLASS ABOUT THEIR JOBS.1 UNPERSTANP W'FC/UOWIW.
A REPORTER! HOW 
THAT'S INTERESTING! I 
RIGHT. REAP EVERY PAGE
ARE- OF THE POST!
PORTER. WHAT TAPER PO
» YOU WRITE \
I FOR*
NO KIPPING! ARB YOU ON 
LEAVE OF 
ABSENCE OR 
SOMETHING?
VTOE ARE ALL MY 
CAKlDoM CHARACTER
u mwmsjp
I [ \M TUE > 
A LAUNDR1.
\ SOMETHING
v. ^n\ £lse. ,
! 2B'( !o ]2(L ! hBL’ Mrtm yz ,-!Lz ]!'2 sC oDLLL BL!yB,zI'M A REPORTER. I WRITE 
STORIES ABOUT UMTS GONG 
ON HERE IN WASHINGTON.THE STORJBS ARE \_______
ThEN PRJNTBP 
IN OUR LOCAL /
NEWSPAPER, j. ». V 
THE WASH- fmV 
INGTON
POST! f
FOR THOSE OF )OU WHO PONT 
KNOW MB, I'M JEFF'S PAPPY, 
ANPMI5S NORTON HAS A5KEP 
ME TO TEIL ALL OF YOU WHAT 
I PO FOR A LIVING!
PAP!
YOU'RE 
PYIN6! 
PUNCH 
IT UP/
What’s a Wendell? by Matt GoldbergAB5CXUTEW MVENTT 
YOU NOTICED} WHEN­
EVER HE COMBS 
HOME, FT'S MISS 
NORTON THIS, MISS NORTON THAT.
I THINK JEFFS 
GOT A CRUSH 
ON HIS TEACHER.
I PUNNO.. 
35. SHE 
CALLEP 
THE POLICE.
BUT
SERIOUSLY,
FOU&...
"Thai'5 Macyl, ifn'r i>? So 
coot / I Wrt'r €v«n kooto you could,0 M*vbC I-ll go f,r
l*> ,n IiWultnV
”»'* ‘"<lve«i.<-y ¡5 j)_______
To rive. ¿005. /nvu, ______J lei-W
II A Mr"** n *-
rr'ir*n? He
1 ^~y  ^°r' ‘'y !
liKc UoSrt R»9tueA o^frorttrWo«J, sounds
tool / UhaT arc y..
¡at
Cor*if>ut*r Science?
r» toSf<l/c<0+ina 38' 100.Iwncntols of&ccc0t*v*y I3f,
i+it. Rune Owijo J^-2o2.

---------------------------------------------------

The af+erlife, Sitiy!Yov; olidnt Thmic yjt/V 
S^r\j<ve JiS inryrtteo;
did ycO ? Her^j i-aKe 
fh'S - itj vcruf ("!a.rp. ,/
OooVvx feel HKe ( 
m-j tK'a'r'5 ¿>een 
on q. popery
Wheel.
-to II oh Yes 7 C«n5T«ntly.yRrai -Oh_i Furtuh eai h;i’ 
Y:»__n—, C(ixuG h6 rhi vu—i
WKo 5e\V<Jrh»s s.V hecx\ien 'Th»5 
/ l‘Sn*
W^aT
*H->0 uKj 
h^av/en 
\Ajouid
Loca tvtfj 
AnoTh^r
relleno »a of Whitney Hwttwft
The APpNTURE5
Cauneoosiy
CCea-ttJbyp1f e
SUptTd
I OF COURSE, Silly! 
fouft 3°,r!3' 10
play in o- c^oir~- 
TK«T5 wh»T wa.
wt'LL. i/V£zo r\ aSc/tm I m
Hcomt M¿> MicKEys-j M 
pOkT WtML //** Ir/nwe wem. TV/s \ L¡ 
m/K )
foR (jJff/fl
Hehwtj,
SltU
I'D LIKE 1"o 1
cm£ /wy
ACCOUNT, PIÍ0.
H£RpS YoMl (lofTEd /H0M£Yf ISC 
Don't' rJssv Yotf! Wc CAßesCawfe youz ¿my rm ßm>
BIG EMNICH TO C"ßf ]f~
fou Me fit/ rtnAsi. 'Toe -pAfiwev 
QtiAf -ro TdH A omm*<&' 
'tow'p ¡HOVE yo^H. ¿nV)Ñ&S>
— X—poli TUA 
WfLU.%... V . rtV0Ur
liMT'sRiffl. ¿rr/r ¦r atz yw MAtr 4 cw/r-
;................. /A/6 tfC-OW j SfiV/Ues, kHS//r? ^
(§sr'&7' |n EiMT^ÀO^^ffrT^M-JO a 
CARD wmYZ¿>%
,[^^7^55 you MlNb IF
He LûAfJ au ycM/<
oN£y To Bra2ILI
andfiw i^rnei MTawjThei vj&£ 
/¦fé' oi/rf J U so M&Ü'ÏÏ i 
{ ¿wo* h»"vlæ rR Vi
[MICKEJ
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON
Andre Lafleur: cactus tamer 
(later killed in central Arizona)
The Viking longcar was once the scourge of 
European roadways.
To the horror of the lifeboat’s other members, 
Madonna loses her balance and falls on her face.
THE FAR SIDEBy GARY LARSONTHE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON
LrhNtKALI 
STORE-
i •
“Somethin's up, Jed. ...That's Ben Potter's horse, all 
right, but ain't that Henry Morgan's chicken ridin' 
him?"
The Far Side used to be a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 
Now, The Far Side is exclusively a weekly feature in The Tartan
“I’m afraid we’re going to have to head back, folks.... 
We’ve got a warning light on up here, and darn 
if it isn't the big one."
Indispensable workers on any porcupine ranch, 
these amazing dogs will sometimes run 
across the backs of their charges.

---------------------------------------------------

ilio management
"... bLAH^ 
1RESVORESFFF 
Tri/s mtfsK, 
iWìLL 5P-F’I 
! OFSTfWcTJ
V IN Fiv'f A 
\ 5EC0WÖ5.7
fif "SELF- >*
Es destrücr v). n / -
ÏV6R TALKED
84ctt FROM ( 
THE BATHOOM 
AT A DMe-ld 
AND FORWirM
Ttk.f“ you
ÎARKED?
IRRC'TT
ANGCPP
in monochrome, where available-5)
Vdsr dmi d afdmmrc ifousTod Pii, hiLLtR 
Has Rfcifv'fD his 
ve«y FiF-vt spf 
assignai FMT...
i/7 my college commercial, T'd be dConiny in WeH 5201 
2nd the cluster is full of nettrekers and 15-211 
Students complaining aboi/t the noise.....'6AY/SStì
HIS MISSION TO IflFILJRATIT I 
ANP PErsTf\°l/ A CoLOMftrtlJ 
DRW1- CARTEL//
Til«'« 3 . 
a startosel
ftlTÜST KIDPll'JfrJ
HIS WlSSlOfl: TO 
i»variane «i/Mei 
OF MYSTERIOUS 
'ACTH'lTr' ON THE 
TOP FLOOR OF 
HCtrAftUCfó (SANK.
BUT /N 
AC-Ti/AL/T)! 
IT’S A TRAP'..T/le/i the AlanFi Stucients are cheering 
£lie/>) gives mg a nice, cold £A1l/ Life. "S’ the t 
ojork, Dut uith tile same credii *presU]<
f\ HATfc 
THESE: seufS 
DE srP,0c7jKJ<V1MEÎ»S/^^E‘5.yÎ
1 Console
Monday 9am-l2'
WRCT BQjl\NO, Kiî-LER. wmy/ 
WON'T <& ! fUZ€!!\
xdrinkmcTHooray!
uwFORTiJwray, ne Wf
CANT HSA?S doB :
^ Do Not Consuma Food or Prink in tllo ¿/ust eri.
•THAT'S OOP- I'M -L|Kr SUPER BAUS 
GETTW<i THIS STRAFE ISOuHCiNti itl mv' SKULL. 
TlWLiAlt;- SEHSATiOM.." Mi^rtfT THis Be/TMP?"
NEXT WEEKS 
THE TRAP/NA/tAf-lH H/So 2utu I/“im... TftÉ.KWtfò To 'F7/dDSfiTisFfìciio*J Fftorn uirTHiN 
•ONce^°fiE_ t>ud£LLi(\l6- ai^oMifrr 
pt)^ UMtRodDEN WfNS . -J—©Ie! "12 
6y NWT <SRofM|MÌ
^ SOFT OtJ 
,CON\iAUMlSiA.
< LCW£ IT 
OC. L6Avl£ r
TALK Diety 
,TO M6-. r
01 CMUM E s RV£NUElfiN^yft>(. xrit 
—QUU, 8M :52M somepLacE 8UGr2
usk1M,,ys VtRN C)UVCKLV| umttouT
Curiclmtob
ìPéRWAPS ex> uorflotA ujrsnt RtnrraQ FoRme... perhaps 
Joo CoM5TRftiMifO& uif£ .
it30He&sR0léK
rtepypyveia
dDn site.»oT
MftJOfclTy.
LA>*3 ÌXnIO 
_ 00.06: g.UoGpS ftOAiN),
'Cftet?-CR£RSI'J& MEMSER. OF ^zif& n0ek7p
92aSl Sems'tr3
vÌKf^PÉfÌvJMS?
ISTHhTNÉ^ft ,\fOL€D0 ? ji/EVe^bT 
\UG\&rHffit-T0NI6+?r. 
VHoff/OI y--------rA
^£S 6UDDV 
OUMeeD 
\ LlFltcT-
MoT uJhAT 
I I HAD IN) / 
VMltOP. )
FAKiLy
dnrM(Hi
THE CULTURAL 
~v Ë.LITE. r--
WHÊRÊ . 
You HE/*!)®:
'itSl
IcftrJi: olhlfC 
CA« .
',AjTR0DD£ròl
WAVS è

---------------------------------------------------

pe^ANDKe SIMONS
ARCAM6 SLAYER 8V WCHACJ. SCAR»Snorkin
He said, "Would you like fries with that?"
Snorkin
The 'large' was only ten cents more than the 
'medium' and this was only ten cents more than 
the 'large.'
®I92Ap leI9 Com Mailbag
uCtll Comr pm,n tp CocC .m hmC CI ge2,C lIe lemm
Jim’s Journal
Tod«<f XtaXWih) to Ttwj.
Ht telUM «11 «W -the h*rd til*»« he Wiai
•k i*k*
*1 iev»t «»II wwrtiune'f ogt, but 
K»b«i«('s «It;*9.' 
Kt i«ud •
by Jim
H« t#'<l v«v« he does»'* think h* t«(V> $+«»»4 hi* brrtti«tr's shoe jtoe fov a*»e *»>«•« ¿*y
T«d«^ X w*tieed 
***• Peter to*> Wtfjhg 
SoMctUih) «round o»\ th* f loot, so X 
picked ;t vf.
a
^>»iV
She bck<-V«<l up «Mdj ^ot (Md<f t» pou*te, *» Vf w^iti*^ -f>r »*« +•• thr«w it b»ek- +o her.
J
ri looW*TcUjeW ^qt it <*h4 it ww«(S 
«¦fhi* bK* fUS+lc
(Nitk «
little t\d?« o* 
the
(fr%
I couldn't iv»«y,he 
whew it M»t fr«vw.
I W<\$ Si+ViW} «»raunA thi* «ftgr-
Y\ocY\ vJ<nteh\Vi9TV. £Se> Steve*)
A foUce oox wrtK it» ii'ffewgoinq 1 
drove avi+tiJe.
I^TWe'f fiw«\\Vvj 
y«u, Jim,'' 
5t€M€ S«\id-
-i*A
Ti>J®-y I HAVE* pe*ywt- Ui+ier avid jelly Somdwich./***-
Mr. locked at Me and mealed over «wd owr.
‘**ty
It seemed like he t&ally wanted5o>Heth'irvg -fr«vn
NNew
/?ot I ¿¿wikruw wh«t hewaited, So X couldn't helf>hji-
“vUl 06(^Jo8
w RIM*eiitdv* YOUO

---------------------------------------------------

CALLING CARD THAT
YOU JUST DIAL "O
THE NUMBER YOU WANT
AND AFTER THE "BONG
fMSSb,YOUR OWN
PHONE NUMBER
YOU CAN PICK YOURSELF.
ITS SIMPLY THE ONLY
CARD YOU NEED
Vuee Pmehnm_-B
(MON THROUGH FRI. 9AM —5PM)

---------------------------------------------------

EXPLORING PITTSBURGH
producer Merchant. Their famil­
iarity with novels by E.M. Forster 
is apparent in their magnificent 
recreation of London in the early 
days. They also demonstrate 
their sharp sense of style and 
taste by casting the finest in Brit­
ish theatre.
The performances by Bonham 
Carter and Thompson show Ivory 
and Merchant’s perfect under­
standing of the characters. 
Vanessa Redgrave also puts in a 
small worthwhile performance 
as Henry Wilcox’s sickly wife 
Ruth and seems to be poised for 
an Oscar nomination.
The musical score by Richard 
Robbins and the costume design 
is also commendable. With all 
the film has to offer, there is no 
true end to Howards End. Audi­
ences will be left with a lasting 
impression of this artistically 
touching work.
Also at the Playhouse:
Monster in a Box: This mono­
logue, performed by Spaulding 
Gray’s feeble attempts to com­
plete a manuscript. Gray ends 
up going off on tangents dis­
cussing his vacations and other 
little things about his life. The 
film will be shown till Septem­
ber 17th.
—hs 7upm hn8 Yueun VrnOhs Chimui 2ehR mbr erHuip on Howards End.
Air Wair offers unique assortment of alternative fashions
By JACKIE MAHER
Tartar, Junior Staffwriter
For all you alternative lovers or 
those of you with a sense of ad­
venture, there is a Pittsburgh 
store for you. Air Wair, located 
On 3608 Forbes Avenue in Oak­
land specializes in selling a wide 
assortment of leather jackets, 
hats, sunglasses, T-shirts, and of 
course — Doc Martens.
Entering Air Wair for the first 
time can be a unique experience. 
You will feel bombarded by the 
grafitti-covered walls and dark 
colored clothing (basically black).
There are racks and racks of T- 
shirts with such artists as the
Red Hot Chili Peppers, Social Dis­
tortion, and America’s all-time 
favorite, James Dean. There are 
also T-shirts with emblems of less 
mainstream “youth symbols” 
such as Sonic Youth and The 
Smashing Pumpkins.
The jewelry stock is pretty in­
teresting as well. There’s ev­
erything from crucifix necklaces 
to hoop earrings to noserings. And 
the hats range everywhere from 
the ordinary to the outlandish as 
well. Everything depends on how 
you wish to balance your ward­
robe.
Air Wair’s best feature is its 
selection of Doc Marten's. The 
store has the high boots, the low 
boots, the shoes with the buckles, 
the electric blue colored ones, the 
green ones, the suede ones—the 
list goes on. If you can’t find the 
pair you want here, you have to 
order your shoes from the Doc 
himself.
Despite being less than a year
old, Air Wair has gained a great 
deal of attention. It responds to 
the growing number of people dis­
covering the alternative move­
ment.
Most of the clothes depict what 
is going on in the music and fash­
ion industry now. They’ve got tho 
basic black clothes line for the old 
line new wavers, new time 
“industrialites,” and even carry 
clothes for the emerging “grunge” 
like types (Pearl Jam and 
Soundgarden admirers). And of 
course the store also carries the 
very necessary motorcycle jackot 
to make one’s wardrobe complete.
Since Air Wair is a store specifi­
cally designed to cater to a di­
verse number of people it is defi­
nitely worth a look when you stop 
by any of the local hangouts down 
in Oakland. It is very much like 
the stores one would find in Now 
York’s Greenwich Village.
The prices at Air Wair are defi­
nitely reasonable, the clothes 
keep with the times, and the out­
rageous decor makes an interest­
ing conversation piece. So if you 
dare — Air Wair!
Nu Fh —rae dump mO_ndp dr_n5 —u2muskui •f _n mOu —.ekr VheeirrsG
Howards End leaves impression
courtesy of Sony Classic Releases
DIVERSIONS
Hip-hop with De La Soul
uncanny collages are as catchy as 
they are clever, and the mellow 
bass-heavy grooves are tailor 
made for blissful hip-shaking.” 
Although the first album re­
ceived positive reviews, De La 
Soul felt constrained by their flow­
ery image. Trying to shed this 
perceived peace/love/sissy image, 
they left the flowers at home and
ByANDYVAUGHAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The hippie-hip-hop trio De La 
Soul is coming to Carnegie Mel­
lon September 18. The group will 
take the stage as the biggest 
popmusic extravaganza CMU has 
seen since that great EMF con­
cert last year. The big news is: 
ITS FREE! The show will be com­
pletely free of charge to anyone 
holding their “gotta’ have it” CMU 
ID card.
Two albums and three years 
ago, De La Soul splashed into the 
seldom innovative, late ‘80s, hip- 
hop musical pool with their first 
album Three Feet High and Ris­
ing. Usheringin what they called 
“The Da.I.S.Y. Age” their unique 
peace and love interpretation of 
hip-hop met rave reviews from 
the musical elitist likes of Roll­
ing Stone and Billboard.
In a three-star musical review 
for Rolling Stone, Michael 
Azzerad said of their first album: 
“One of the most original rap 
records to come down the pike, 
Three Feet High and Rising 
stands staid rap conventions on 
their def ear.”
Azzerad also praises their un­
usual, psychedelic sound: “The
Dead in his four-star review for 
Rolling Stone: “Amid constant 
talk of hip-hop’s death, De La 
Soul has managed a breathtak­
ing combination of sonic and ver­
bal beauty, challenging the lis­
tener with an unruly, seemingly 
effortless hip-hop masterpiece.” 
With what all these writers are 
saying about De La Soul, one 
might be interested to see what 
they have to say for themselves. 
The duo expressed themselves in 
a recent press release:
“Finally we have found the key 
to letting us out of hibernation. 
Doom in reverse has become the 
mood, but doom for whom or 
what? Three years ago, we 
brought you the Da.I.S.Y. Age. 
Well, it has officially ended. And 
with a new speak, SHWING- 
ALOKATE, we begin with clos­
ing the doors behind us four we 
have just entered the NOW- 
STEP.”
releasedDeia Soul is Dead. With 
their second album, they turned 
their back on peace, love, and 
positivity, opting instead to rap 
about the issues of drug addic­
tion, child abuse and the perils of 
fame.
Scott Paulson-Bryant very elo­
quently praises De La Soul is
If you can figure this out, De La 
Soul’s performance next Friday 
night is definitely for you. If not, 
I assure you that you are not 
alone. However, this concert is 
one you don’t want to miss. It 
promises to be the event of the 
year. All you have to do is show 
up at Skibo Ballroom and De La 
Soul will take care of the rest.
IOu Nr- _p hHh_ehkeu hm P_i 7h_iG
graphic by Art Editor Dan Frey
By CYNTHIA RODRIGUEZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
One glance at the credits for 
the film adaptation of C.W. 
Forster’s Howards End is enough 
to pack movie theaters with audi­
ences for months. This beauti­
fully crafted and acted film, di­
rected by James Ivory and pro­
duced by Ismail Merchant, brings 
a reputable novel to life with style 
and dignity. (The Ivory/Merchant 
team also brought the Forster 
novel A Room With A View to the 
big screen.) The film is being 
shown throughout the month of 
September at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse down in Oakland.
Howards End depicts a dark 
view of human nature. Anthony 
Hopkins, riding the waves of suc­
cess from his portrayal of 
Hannibal Lechter in Silence of 
the Lambs, demonstrates why he 
won an Academy Awara for Best 
Actor last year. He heads the cast 
ofHowardsEnd as Henry Wilcox, 
patriarch of a wealthy and arro­
gant English family in the early 
1900’s. He and his family own 
several estates including a beau­
tiful country home called 
Howards End. Mr. Wilcox sees 
the home as a financial invest­
ment, whereas his ill wife Ruth 
feels a spiritual connection to the 
' ome where she was raised. Helen
Schlegel, played by E.M. Forster 
veteran Helena Bonham Carter, 
takes up a temporary residence 
with the Wilcox family but 
abruptly leaves after a failed at­
tempt at romance with the young­
est Wilcox son, Paul.
About a year later, the Wilcox 
family rents a flat in London near 
the home of Helen and her sister 
Margaret, glayed by award win­
ning actress Emma Thompson. 
Helen, uncomfortable with the 
constant reminder of Paul, leaves 
the city, during which time the 
older sister Margaret develops a 
relationship with the ailing Ruth 
Wilcox. Margaret’s bond with 
Mrs. Wilcox is strong enough to 
transcend the obvious cultural 
and political differences.
After the death of Ruth, the 
Wilcox family discovers that Ruth 
has left Howards End to the radi­
cal bohemian Margaret Schlegel. 
They destroy the paper on which 
Ruth rewrote her will, and see to 
it that neither Margaret nor her 
intense younger sister Helen ever 
get their hands on the estate. 
The Schlegel family’s cultured 
and emancipated spirit is in im­
mediate contrast with the “well- 
to-do,” materialistic Wilcox fam­
ily and this is what causes the 
conflict.
Every minute detail is handled 
carefully by director Ivory and

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992
FRIENDS Don LEI FRIENDS DRIVE DRUM
Thanks forgiving.
United V\fay
The best investment in your hometown
Passion
Even if you don't play an 
instruments, you can help illl Heinz 
Hall! We have limited openings lor 
our exciting subscription campaign. 
If you arc outgoing and articulate, 
we will teach you a skill that will 
last a lifetime, Have fun and earn 
up to $20/hr plus $$$ bonuses and 
complimentary tickets! PT day or 
eve. Parking.
Call Pat DcLuna 
392-3311
]aniC iaud iarcf dmk 0nc wikTd WN amktw
A DAY? PROVE HOW SMART YOU ALREADY ARE 
AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF CABLE INSTALLATION 
FOR JUST $29.95. GET ALL THE SPORTS, 
MOVIES, MUSIC VIDEOS, NEWS AND COMEDIES
YOU DESERVE DURING THOSE HARD-EARNED 
STUDY BREAKS. AND WHEN YOU SIGN UP, WE’LL 
DONATE $5 TO THE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY 
ASSOCIATION. JUST CALL I -800-CABLE-TV 
OR YOUR LOCAL TCI OFFICE TODAY.
TCI Cable Television
We're taking television into tomorrow.
If you are not satisfied with our service, however, and decide to discontinue your cable service within 30 days 
of installation, we will credit your account with a full refund (pay-per-view and special events excluded). 
OFFICIAL RULESI.NO PURCHASE NECESSARY, h enter. lomplrlf on Offod S»trpltJ»o (ivy form cnl mai « r on turret* to tCI Coleft Sattpitoin. PO Sai HOIK IWtoi. MD.H1U ton oho tnjf tétte tj Irpfcy honipniuij &c&0 noi< oWni (»«/> tf>L pp. colrft. ond trlrptont nxnbte on a 3'tS'ioed and main( lo It* txM>ni otwrt Inti n cfltn 01 pxi «nfi, but foci rrtrr nxnt be makd irporctrif2 Partkipatkm Open 10 U & Co*rff it*]ertt, U S ttulena («|* II Of older) at Ihtu Penntyiran0. (olkftl on/p UiWrtrairy of Prrabufjh. Prtutorjti; Carnet* MtHoo UntrteVty. Pttui*jc[h. Duqvt in« Unfnn/Ty, PmibuejK Ptnn Slot«, State Colleft; St YinetnU, Gmntbuej; ond Set on H4 College, Grrenitwj; enfJsjTTt onj the* w^ne\iute fmttl of TO Cotie tekyewn on] <1 odrtftrunf onj |<tMon ofenoet on not cW^t S-Snt 10 cl federai itott ml M rtfukiuw onj cedenti VOID WHERE PROHIOITID.l.Pfiiti Aiailabl* and Oddt: CUiiof depen] on ¡he njmbei cf e*pHe entnrt memd The fokmnf prue ml be c»ordtd et eexh dramf Onefoe of tat Koommate II Self Amplfvd Speettn I rtt irtaI tvlue. $199.00) Three nmn ptf toWnxn on ftiponut* foe oi tatti hue mat bttloened »«/wi tO dop of noti» own w »my* <*l be dnqvotfed end pme foefeted4 Dtadlmn and Validation: Three tnrem pte colete »VI tr irfccttd bf roni.iv drmnnjj. to be Ml on (ktobee 30. 1992. One prue per drvonfTo tv ripNr fer tf* dw»m(. tnuy fbftm nwt be fKtwd ly Octobtf IS. ¡991. Dro»*ip <nl be cendKUd br HortrJiinLi Dn<1 Ataftcui£ on ««kpendert oftfKi Al drouni Oft fink5 tf toitf peel n tha pnmo(Ke\ ponepoeti Ofett to bt Ion] ty thttt Oflioi/RJet ond al the deaum of the fjdpni oetanjocon. Cnnet on *od 4 not VfWc or ccmpfeud bf hand fajed. p^«cp*-t meihomoti reproduced fate. tempered «fi oe mentd «it poiofe due. Sponof and «1oMraex ond promMwn Ofenoei Oft twt 'npomf* foe t/pctetfhtol or other eeron r ¡he cflef of odmnouotion of tfM i»eepitoiiei Loth potente! wnncf »J be tojuetd to >»n ond mum 10 do>i of dt*wj to InJhee oddrtu on offdm« of compiante that nJn. 0 prut tobitt retane. and 0 retane fee ¡he uie of halxe mmt an] Utneu for p>Mctt fvepoui—Sx01 forthee mmpemaivn fokjn to ujn and fttum ti«t fonrn »t/«n 20 daft ml mu» n &ufjdfco Don h tfw r«n< of 0 dti^otficotiofv ai o*tmxt »«»iff ini b< itfcctfd rondom drOM^f. Al prua »J bt omxdtd No mpemitk/a aaumed foe ba. HcJcn. rmiiftord, Iat oe paUfe dot ntal6/of 0 tal cfwnnon. ten] 0 ttanptd. Kfoddrtutd wnH-pt cfite Ncwibtf 30,1991,but trfonjamarj 1, 1993. ta Aon TOCdefe S-Ttpuain. Comnxncooont Cenukana. 240 fiuvntu fori Dnre. VVjoo teach. VA 234ÓI
sTTT43,iUTTTT,U4tDtyii“DwtTTrt¦Do
( )rur­i ioersfhmt rcir sfds ionmzi turds. bmsru so yhm
I THIS HIGH QUALITY, HIGH PERFORMANCE BOSE ROOMMATE II 
SPEAKER SYSTEM. AND TELL YOUR PARENT 
LISTEN TO YOUR LECTURE TAPES. HONEST.
| NAME--------
|' ADDRESS- 
| GTY/ZlP—
I PHONE---------------------------------------------------
^lAILTO:TCI COLLEGE SWEEPSTAKES, P.O. BOX 14028, BALTIMORE, MD 21268j
This Week at Forbes Gallery...
The display seen in Forbes Gallery this 
week, "Voices From Western Peniten­
tiary and Beyond/' was created by in­
mates from maximum security prisons 
in the Pennsylvania and Texas areas. 
Most of the prisoners were inspired to 
create these works due to their confined 
environments. The pieces are in fact an 
expression of their desire for "escape."
6irs a22ui eu^m mr krmmrs i_dOm? Iuiihn-u Mrriuyp )Iiuu 7rshnty 
Iuiihn-u Mrriuyp )Viuh. mOu COh_npt) NhnnR NhH_py )Vuhit Yripupty 
hn8 M_-Ohue 9yCrnnriyp )Unm_meu8G)
Pee 2Ormrp mh.un kR Ihimhn 2Ormrdih2Oui «uH_n COun y
lnlctn.il d¡rwmio V
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE CAMPAIGN 
NEWSPAPER AD NO. IRS-91 -1760-2 COL. x 5.25 ' 
Volunteer Agency: McCann-Erickson
Trea sufzuaG opl 
Chi ipenhaud_hM GhpepGU
ot tape
up to your eyes, dim the lights 
and try to fill out your taxes.
Now you’re seeing things from 
her point of view.
For this woman it’s poor eyesight, for 
someone else it might be arthritis or maybe they just can’t cope. The fact is, 
last year 4 million Americans got the 
help they needed from IRS Volunteer Assistance Programs.
If yon have the desire to help and a 
basic aptitude for math, you could become a part of the IRS Volunteer 
Assistance Programs. So volunteer and please call 1800 829-1040.
Volunteer and make someone's 
taxes less taxing.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 8 September 1992UL3
diversions.
carnegie melIon's 
entertainment 
guide.
music.
art.
theater.
restaurants.
movies.
books.
be part of it. 
call x2111
diversions.
Thursday, September 10
Europa, Europa
This praiseworthy film gives a different perspec­tive of a Jewish teenager during the Holocaust years.
Europa, Europa is a basic tale of survival, but it does not focus solely on the concentration camps. A young Jewish male poses as a Christian in order to avoid Nazi persecution. In order to keep his true identity safe, he must hide his circumcision, which definitely limits his options with the women who are interested in him. There are also some interest­ing and hilarious encounters with an officer he must avoid.The movie is by far one of the best modern films dealing with the subject of the Holocaust and shows a different perspective of “survival” that may not be looked upon as honorable by many. The film is quite a conversation piece.At 6, 8:30, & 10 pm.
Friday, September 11
Final Analysis
This flick is a take-off of the age-old “whodunit” movies, with a couple of new twists. Richard Gere ; plays a psychologist who is treating a woman who has all kinds of crazy Freudian dreams.As the movie progresses, we find out that the patient’s sister (Kim Basinger) has a special condi- I tion that makes her “sensitive” to the effects of : alcohol. When she is called into Gere’s office to discuss her sister’s case, we discover this fact. Then Gere sleeps with her and gets framed for murder, and the two sisters gang up on him, but it doesn’t work and.... Well, it goes on and on. And it’s really bad to boot.Gere’s acting is bad, Basinger’s acting is bad, the music is bad, and the plot is predictable (and stupid). So there really isn’t much reason to go see the movie, right?Well, there is—it’s the same reason you go to see i Debbie Does Dallas. Final Analysis isn’t as bawdy, ,. but at least it doesn’t have the synthesized hokey music score of XXX-rated fame.At 5, 7:15, 9:30, & midnight.
Saturday, September 12
Basic Instinct
As far as movies these days go, Basic Instinct is one of the most provocative as far as sex scenes and “camera shots up the skirt” go.Sharon Stone stars as a bisexual novelist who becomes a murder suspect after several of her lovers end up dead, and the way in which they die becomes part of her book story lines. Michael Dou­glas stars as the detective who takes on the case after the infamous interrogation scene and also takes on Stone in the film’s steamy bedroom scenes.Douglas’ character is almost as interesting as Stone’s. He portrays a man who has sort of dysfunc­tional relationships with women — including his therapist. It’s not surprising how the chemistry works between him and Stone.When Douglas’ testosterone takes control, the movie’s whodunit plot becomes a bit conventional, but bounces back from time to time. This movie deserves a split review — “ sex 10, plot three. ” Check it out.At 5, 7:30,10 pm, 12:30 am.
Sunday, September 13
D.O.A. (Sex Pistols)
Finally, a treat for all those Sex Pistols fans. This rockumentary/documentary tells the infamous story of the life and times of the of the hard-driving punk band. The music and the interesting, somewhat psycho relationship between Sex Pistol band mem­ber Sid Vicious and his girlfriend Nancy Spungen is worth the buck.At 6, 8,10, & midnight.
By MARNI BOREK & AARON JENKINS
John Caponera unleashes laughs
VR MPLAo V9LE«
Tartan Diversions Editor
Over the past years, CMU has 
become “comedy central.” And 
this year is no different. AB Cof­
feehouse starts out a new year of 
laughs with comedian John 
Caponera on Friday, September 
11 in the Skibo Ballroom.
Caponera has a bio similar to 
most young up-and-coming co­
medians. He’s worked as a semi- 
serious actor and has been on 
some of the sitcoms. He’s been on 
the Drug War Miniseries and 
guest starred on Sibs and LA. 
Law. Camponerahasalsoworked 
on the stage in such productions 
as One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s 
Nest and The Glass Menagerie.
Caponera has played the usual 
circuits — The Comedy Store, 
The Improvisation, The Ice 
House, Catch A Rising Star, and 
Dangerfield's. He’s been on the 
usual TV shows — Comic Strip 
Live, Up Close withRoy Firestone, 
MTV 1/2 Hour Comedy Hour, 
and Showtime’s Comedy Club 
Network.
So what does he have that oth­
ers don’t? Well, how about some 
refreshing ideas that poke fun at 
some of America’s favorite pas­
times?
Recently, Caponera was seen 
doing his act on Comedy Central. 
He and fellow comedian Joe Bol­
ster portrayed sports addicts who 
spend fifteen days in a hotel room 
together watching the triple cast 
of the Olympics.
FREE CATALOG
of Government Books
Send for your copy today!
Free Catalog
Box 37000 
Washington DC 20013-7000
Pittsburgh
Irish
Festival
I <' S ponsored by -¦
Pittsburgh Brewing Co.
Join us for 3 days of Celtic 
camaraderie and celebration!Sept. 11,12, & 13
(halfway to St. Patrick's Day)
I.C. Light Amphitheatre and Tent Station Square
Friday: 4 pm - Midnight 
Saturday: 11 am - Midnight Sunday: 9:30 am- 11 pm
$5.00 - adult 
S2.M) - children (3-12 years) children under 3 free
FREE ADMISSION ON:Friday: 4 pm - 6 pm 
Saturday: I lam-I pm Sunday: 9:30 am - Noon
Featuring:
Paddy
Reilly
Sean Fleming Mary O'Dovvd • Cahal Dunne
• Irish foods and refreshments •
• Irish Marketplace •
• Children's activities •
• Irish dance lessons •
• Dart competition •
• Irish Seisiun (Jam session!) •
• Irish dog display tent •
• Gaelic Mass - Sunday 10 am •
• Gaelic conversation •
• Irish musical instruments 
demonstration •
• Meet Pittsburgh's Irish
organizations •
Also sponsored by Pepsi-Cola
The program the duo starred in 
was appropriately named Olym- 
piacs. The guys were forced to 
watch 1,241 hours of Olympic cov­
erage on four television monitors. 
Imagine being alone in the room 
with one person for fifteen days!
During their quest to keep their 
eyes open during the dragged- 
out hours of Olympic coverage 
the guys hung out with favorite 
sports celebrities, sportscasters, 
and friends. The result of this
exhausting experience was a hi­
larious salute to all the sports 
buffs of the world.
Whether or not Caponera will 
perform any of the zany skits 
from Olympiacs is up in the air, 
but the CMU community can be 
assured that they are in for an 
evening of fun.
Caponera’s performance is 
bound to lead to that stomach 
affliction caused by laughing too 
much.
courtesy of Hariy Gold. Agency 
JrOn Chs2rnuih b_ee O_m ap b_mO 2an-O e_nup mO_p 6i_8hRG
AffordableImmigrationServices
Nagel & Goldsteinj siiher,SC oi cot 263-2113
HpmRpt
CHINESE RESTAURANT 
r>
Í& <hg,
(Newly AddedDine In, Carry-Oakland
400 S. Craig St.
(Near Cathedral of Learning)vfz,zzzz
Fax:681-3333
Mon. - Sun.11 - 10 pm 
Carry-out Parking all Houra.
Noorby Froo Parking oftor 
5 pm & Wookonda.
Adventure Menu)out, and CateringDowntown
124 Sixth St.
(Near Heinz Hall)zv¦,llll
Fax:681-3333
ATTENTION!!! ATTENTION!! ATTENTION!! 
CARNEGIE MELLON ACTION PROJECT (CMAP)
THE CARNEGIE MELLON ACTION PROJECT (CMAP) IS INTERESTED IN HIRING INDIVIDUALS T 
TUTOR THE FOLLOWING COURSES:
06-151Thermodynamics
06-201Transport II
09-245Physical Chemistry
15-123Intro to Programming & App (H&SS)
1 8-1 33Intro to Digital Systems
24-1 01Intro to Mechanical Engineering
24-121Thermodynamics I
24-14 1Static and Dynamics
73-100Principles of Economics
79-1 04Intro to World History
85-100Cognitive Process
88-103Decision Making
CMAP's tutoring occurs from 6:00-9':00 p.m., Sunday -Thursday In the CMAP Complex, localed 
in room 220 Smith Hall.
II you are inleresied In applying for a tutoring position, please conlact Dr. LaValla Wilson or 
Maria Jose" Canonico at 268-2150. A copy of your transcript and a letter of recommendation 
from your department or instructor is needed to complete your application.
I

---------------------------------------------------

ànupWÆmm\ut\LEiwAL\
Michael Douglas as you've never seen him before in Vhp_- Instinct, which plays 
in DH 2210 on Saturday at 5, z?4Wt10, and 12:30 am.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at the Friends Meeting House, 
and the cost is $3. For more informa­
tion, call 276-1768 in the evenings.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH
1507, will have open office hours for 
students from 2-3 pm each Tuesday 
and Friday until December 15. During 
these times, a staff member is available 
to discuss legal problems, such as secu­
rity deposits and leases, that are re­
lated to University life. They will not 
provide legal assistance for personal 
legal matters but can make referrals to 
attorneys in private practice.
Chabad House is hostingFalafel Night 
on Tuesday at 5:30 pm in Skibo 201. 
For more information, call 683-7770.
Skydiving Club will meet on Tuesday 
at 7 pm in Skibo 13. A video will be 
shown and plans will be made for a first 
jump course. If you’ve ever been curi­
ous about skydiving, show up and find 
out more. For further information, con­
tact Barry Brumitt at x7144.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional Oki­
nawan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
Mechanical Engineering Design
(24-266) will have an egg launch con- 
teston Wednesday at 1:45 pm inThistle 
Hall in the gymnasium. The students 
must design a mechanism to launch an 
egg over an 8-foot wall and a container 
to protect it; the egg which lands closest 
to the wall without breaking wins. Ev­
eryone is invited to watch the contest.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ­
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
Chabad House is hosting Halacha 
class on Wednesday at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) in Pitt’s Cathedral of 
Learning. For more details, call 683- 
7770.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in various 
exciting business activities at CMU. 
We offer BOC and opportunities for 
business contacts. All majors are wel­
come. Do you have any questions? Call 
Aurora at x8310.
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Monster in a Box, starring Spaulding 
Gray, plays at the Pittsburgh Play­
house nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
through Thursday, September 17.
Howards End plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse nightly at 7 pm through 
Wednesday, September 31.
Europa, Europa plays at DH 2210 on 
Thursday at 6, 8:30, and 10 pm.
North on Evers plays at Filmmakers 
at the Fulton (101 Sixth Street) on 
Thursday at 8 pm. Call 471-9700 for 
showtimos.
Final Analysis plays at DH 2210 on 
Friday. wShoyf are at 5, 7:15, 9:30, and 
midnight.
One False Move plays at Filmmakers 
at the Fulton (101 Sixth Street) from 
Friday through Sunday, September 20. 
Call 471-9700 for showtimes.
Basic Instinct plays on Saturday in 
DH 2210 at 5, 7:30,10, and 12:30 am.
D.O.A.(Sex Pistols) plays at DH 2210 
on Sunday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Foreign language tables sponsored 
by the Modern Language Program will 
be held each week of the Fall semester. 
Mondays: Hebrew Language Table 
(sponsored by Hillel) 11:30-1 in 
Morewood Cafeteria; Bentoo Lunch o 
nihongo de (Japanese “Érown Bag” 
Lunch) at 12:00 in BH160. Tuesdays: 
Russkii Chas (Russian) 12:00-1:30 in 
Morewood Cafeteria. Wednesdays: La 
Table Française (French) 11:30-l :15 in 
Morewood Cafeteria; LaMesaEspanola 
(Spanish) 11:30-l in Morewood Cafete­
ria. Thursdays: Deutscher Stammtisch 
(Gorman) 11:30-12:45 in Morewood 
Cafeteria.
The Japnnese Association for 
Touch Football is sponsoring several 
women’s touch football exhibition 
games at CMU. They are looking for 
teams and individuals to participate. 
Direct questions to Tommy Tomita at 
x3064.
cmuOUT will hold its weekly business 
meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
Chabad House is sponsoring a fun for 
all Bowling Night on Thursday at 8 pm. 
Call 683-7770 for details.
The Great Race early registration
ends today for the race that takes place 
on Sunday, September 27 at 9 am. For 
more information, call 255-2493.
John Caponera, comedian, will per­
form on Friday at 8 pm in the Skibo 
Ballroom. This is a free show.
Chabad House ia having its first 
Shabbat on Friday and Saturday. Call
683-7770 for more information.
Alpha Phi Omega invites all mem­
bers of the campus community to help 
“Paint Your Heart Out” on Saturday 
(September 19 if rain). The event should 
last all day — food and drinks will be 
provided. Contact A Phi O at x2116 for 
more information.
Questioning? Positively sure? Come 
to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Women’s 
Discussion Group for friendly talk and 
fun. Meetings will now be held on Sat­
urdays at 7 pm in the CMU Women’s 
Center.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP) is looking to hire tutors forthe 
following classes: 06-151 Thermody­
namics, 06-201 Transport II, 09-245 
Physical Chemistry, 15-123 Intro to 
Programming & Applications (H&SS), 
18-133 Intro to Digital Systems, 24-101 
Intro to Mechanical Engineering, 24- 
121 Thermodynamics I, 24-141 Static 
and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of 
Economics, 79-104 Intro to World His­
tory, 85-100 Cognitive Process, and 88- 
103 Decision Making. CMAP tutoring 
takes place Sunday through Thursday 
from 6—• 9 pm in 220 Smith Hall. Call 
x2150 for more information.
Recycle all metals and latex paints 
this Saturday from 9 am to 3 pm at 
Three Rivers Stadium parking lot #4. If 
you have any questions, call 255-2621.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with an Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11:30 am in their chapel 
located on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. An Eucharist is 
also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For 
more information, contact campus min­
ister Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Gallery will 
display the works of Adrienne Salinger 
through Saturday, September 26. For 
more information, call 681-5449.
Shabbat Shalom! For your Shabbat 
plans, call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillelis held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39. Weekend masses 
are celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 
10:30 am Sunday in the GSIA main 
auditorium. For more information, call 
The Oratory at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the comer of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
more information, call 621-6760.
Michael Crawford (Broadway’s origi­
nal Phantom of the Opera), and Carn­
egie Mellon grads Ty Taylor (BFA ’91) 
and Tami Tappan (MT ’91), will speak 
at the Kresge Theatre (located in the 
College of Fine Arts) on Wednesday 
10:30 am. Everyone is welcome.
The Damaged Pies will play at Fat 
City on Tuesday at 9 pm along with 
Brad Wagner.
Trouble, along with Poorboys & Colli­
sion will play at Graffiti on Thursday at 
8 pm. This is an all agçs show. Call 363- 
0500, 276-2992, or 682-4210 to charge 
tickets.
River City Brass Band will perform 
at Gateway High School in Monroeville 
on Thursday at 8 pm, at Carson Middle 
School in McCandless on Friday at 8 
pm, and at the Palace Theatre in 
Greensburg on Saturday. For more in­
formation and reservations, call the 
box office at 322-RCBB.
A.T.S. will play at the Bloomfield Bridge 
Tavern on Saturday at 10 pm.
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087.
The volleyball team competes against 
the University of Pittsburgh ini 
Johnstown on Wednesday at 7 pm.
The men’s soccer team hosts Wash­
ington & Jefferson College on Wednes­
day at 7:30 pm and Case Western Re­
serve University on Saturday at 5:30; 
pm.
The women’s tennis team plays 
Grove City College on Thursday at 3 
pm and Geneva College on Saturday at 
1 pm.
The men’s cross country team com­
petes against California University of 
Pennsylvania in the California Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania Invitational on 
Saturday at 12 pm.
The women’s cross country team
competes against California Univer-; 
sity of Pennsylvania in the California 
University of Pennsylvania Invitational 
on Saturday at 12:45 pm.
The women’s soccer team hosts Case 
Western Reserve University on Satur­
day at 3 pm.
The football team hosts Washington 
University on Saturday at 7 pm in 
Gesling Stadium.
Playhouse Theatre Company is
holding auditions, by appointment only, 
on Tuesday and Wednesday for Dames 
at Sea, which will run from October 27 
through November 15. To schedule an 
audition, call 621-6695 from 10 am until 
4 pm, Monday through Friday.
The Robert Morris College Inde­
pendents will hold open auditions on 
Sunday at 3 pm in the new perfor­
mance hall on their Moon Township 
campus. For more information, call 262- 
8336.
Pirates home games:
Iaup8hRt g<f HpG Chicago 7:35 
7u8nup8hRt g<g HpG Chicago 7:35
Herb Simon will present a lecture 
entitled “Ethical Implications of Artifi­
cial Intelligence” on Tuesday at 4:30 in 
the Adamson Wing.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submis­
sions to: The Tartan, Attn. Calendar, 
Box 17, Carnegie Mellon U., Pitts­
burgh, PA 15213. Or send campus 
mail to Calendar Editor, The Tartan, 
Skibo Info Desk. You can also drop 
submissions via AppleShare in the drop 
folders in the Tartan's server, Skibo 
zone. Please limit submissions to fifty 
words or less. Deadline is 5 pm the 
Thursday before the next issue. Place­
ment is not guaranteed. Original Vox 
Populi and Calendar entries cannot be 
returned.
Angela,They wouldn’t give me enough space here to tell you everything you mean to me, but there defi­nitely is room to tell you this: I love you ...Jon
Actually, this week I just might have ...
“Mawwage ... a dweam wifin a dweam.”
“Nobody does it better ...”
Hey Jay —Clothes belong on people and the laundry basket, not in the toilet.
* —
Honking on the bobo.
Td be her goober any day.”— P.
Just because it had to be said: moo moo sizzle sizzle.
Aandrea not Andrea.
“Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.” 
Observe closely, Mike Murphy.
Did anyone else notice that there was a large number of freshmen at the midnight movie?
Hey, Tina, are you ready to put a bar on the door yet?
What, no Robitussin tonight?
Hurray for the door deed!
Jenn —Don’t you just love Bill and Tony? Now, should you understand what I meant about Bill?— T.
Friday afternoon at PHI... ahhh, to be a senior.
