THINGS ARE 
HAPPENING! 
TAKE PART
WELL, WHAT DO 
YOU THINK ! 
NO RAIN
VOL. XIII: NO. 18.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAMAY 28, 1919
Î»10 WESLEYAN TAKES 1ME ON 15TH FIELD DAÏ
Before two thousand hoarse Tech- 
Is, intermingled with 15tli Engineers
A.d girls from, the Margaret Morri- 
I Jh Division, the Tech baseball team 
int down in defeat before the Ohio 
jgsleyan University of Delaware, 0., 
aj) a score of 9 to 2. A combination 
circumstances mitigated toward 
defeat of the kilties. First,
en of the first string men were 
... the Plaid team on account of
(^olastic requirements. Weiss, Lus- 
and McCaw, all first string pitch- 
were out of the game. Captain 
itzler, who was suffering from • an 
¡red foot and’ an ulcerated tooth, 
fnely went in because there was 
one to relieve him. Honus had 
jy expected to pitch McCaw, the 
¿p who made fourteen Dukes walk 
,|k to the bench, but McCaw failed 
/get up to date in his studies, so 
big fellow had to play. The 
cl and Black collected ten hits 
an him and stretched nine of them 
jo inns, although the Tech Captain 
¡lied , but two passes. Five hits 
¡lire made from the Delaware
lundsman, but he had an airtight
{eld and outfield behind him that 
(de him , absolutely safe all the 
?. There is no use- denying that 
i Wesleyan team played first class 
(l, for the same team that defeat- 
Tech, a short time ago cleaned 
thi© Ohio State University, proba- 
tlie best college baseball team in 
io. For the Tecliites, Sodden, a 
jcher, who was shifted to first in 
[ce of Midget Doherty, who was 
the team, played a star'game and 
up everything that came his 
r. He had twelve put outs, made 
jo of the five hits, one of the two 
jis and with the exception of one 
(Continued on Page Two.)
THINGSTARG ERGPI!IT KWL,DOLY UK OS OS VS .X:Y1 XYU .X8UCL, XWL—K CAMPUS STÄ M|NSTBEL SH0W c|yEN T() FG G
Have you noticed that during the 
recent reign (or is it rain?) of J. 
Pluvius the "cut” has been showing a 
very marked tendency’ to take a 
header into the hollow beside M. M.. 
taking with it the beautiful Y. M. C. 
A. and the lovely oats lawn? Well, 
some of the administration noticed the 
above phenomenon and promptly de­
cided that it was going on in a slow 
and entirely unsatisfactory manner.
I Therefore a steam shovel was prompt, 
ly ordered and given the job of putting 
the hill in the hollow before it got 
I there of its own accord. “Well,” you 
say, "that is a foolish idea.' Why not 
let the matter slide?’ (You really 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Amidst wild cheers of the upper 
classmen the M. M. Plebes staged a 
j very clever minstrel show in the gym,
| on Thursday afternoon at 1:15. Al- 
| though much disguised by black paint, 
j the predominance of certain colors, 
such as maroon and gold, proclaimed 
| the dusky actor’s class. Some very 
artistic color combinations were in 
evidence, and some very awe-inspiring 
head-dresses and i.ate were noticeable. 
An unknown colored gentleman, 
charmingly rendered a song about the 
wonders of a certain class of ’22. A 
liula-hula dancer, marvelously gowned, 
proved very amusing to both audience 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ffderal isiURU men SCHOLASTIC MEET WILL IN SCHOOL mm\ BE unusual EVENT
Mack Sennett’s comedies had noth­
ing on the show staged by upper 
classmen last Friday afternoon in 
Industries Assembly Hall. The lead­
ing parts were taken by several 
naughty Plebes who had been taking 
getmographers out joy riding and 
general arobism.
The clippers were forsaken for 
the paddle and after each Plebe had 
been tenderly massaged, a little green 
paint was added to the chorus and 
the scene changed1 to the athletic 
field where a review was staged for 
the benefit of Murph girls, but the 
rain put a stop to the extensive pro­
gram.
The soldiers, sailors and marines, 
who were sent here to school by the 
Government, have organized a club 
and elected officers. D. M. Jones is 
to pilot the club with the aid of Mr. 
Speetles, while Bliss will act as sec­
retary and Trumbull as treasurer.
These men have seen all kinds of 
service and have all received injuries 
in the service, and are here to get the 
most out of their course that they 
can. They come from all parts of the 
United States, and from all branches 
of service. All we can say is, we hope 
you luck.
WAGNER PLANS STRONG INFIELD FOR TECH
HACK TEAM IN FINE CONDITION TO WORK
[ypjrech is not worried at anything any 
her opponents may have, except 
it in the short distance runs, has 
;a, who looks like an-early winner 
c tliis event. The Tech runner has 
it Arnold, who it was necessary to 
lift to the hurdles. Arnold has 
ivered just above the 10-second mark 
:i the 100-yard dash, and was the best 
l|?ch.bet in this event, until his trans- 
r to bolster up the hurdle#. Russell, 
ho will likely run the short sprints, is. 
speedy youngster, but has been out 
the squad for some days on ac- 
)unt of scholastic requirement, and 
_:i returning to the squad is somewhat 
Hl.it of condition and has not enough 
' me to get thoroughly seasoned be- 
I veen now and Saturday. In practi- 
[ illy all other events, Tech is con-
1 I lent of holding her own. Schmidt 
j Capt.) Hiller, G‘are and Stone will
ike care of the quarter mile depart- 
' lent. Stone, the latest addition to the 
40-squad, has been amile-walker, but 
aptain Bazel tried him out as a quar- 
;r and was so pleased at the showing
2 lat the young man has made a place 
[ )r himself in this'department. Bag- 
’ <ey, a Freshman, with remarkably long
sgs, ran clean away from everybody 
i the half piile and was an eighth of 
lap ahead, when his wind gaVe out. 
when this big fellow is thoroughly 
easoned he promises to bring home 
:onsiderable of the bacon for the Kil- 
ies. Ferguson and Captain Schmidt 
vill take care of the half mile,- while 
¿acks and Juergens will make them all 
¡tep to keep up in the mile and two 
inile. Last Saturday Juergens took 
/¡he lead on the Dennison man in the 
(third lap of the long race and never . - ---------- QVon the veteran
—Courtory Pittsburgh; Dispatch.
SOPHOMORES WIN SUPREMACY 
CONTEST ON 15TH FIELD DAY
Even though the Plebes could not 
give their old alibi of disorganization 
they were beaten by the Sophomores 
in the annual Freshman-Sophomore 
Supremacy Contest, which was held 
on the athletic field last Wednesday 
afternoon. Of the eight events the 
Freshmen won three.
Sophomores won both light-weight 
and heavy-weight boxing contests. 
Bloom and Gare represented the 
Sophomores and were opposed by Bar- 
tell and Curtis.
In the relay race, in which a inan 
was carried on back, the second year 
men were again victorious, largely due 
to the good start given gBsm by Gare 
and Sobeck.
The Freshmen, however, can show 
the Sophomores how to wrestle, as 
Bartell and Curtis won light and heavy­
weight matches, respectively. Their 
victims were Bloom and Gorman.
The Freshmen remembered their 
army training, and were able to keep 
step so successfully in the centipede 
race that the Sophomores were again 
snowed under. But in the relay race 
the second, year men rallied. Their 
team, consisting of Newman, Nichol, 
Riley and Code, easily walked away 
with the race.The final score was 65-55 in favor of 
the Sophomores. The Fifteenth En­
gineers, who.were there to see the 
event, all said that it reminded them 
of-their first day at Tech.
TECH EXPECTS TO RUN BIG 
SUMMER SCHOOL THIS YEAR
During tne coming summer, the Car­
negie Institute of Technology, will hold
“UNCLE JOHN” SPEAKS AT M. M. D. ASSEMBLY
At M. M. Assembly on Wednesday, 
May 21, “Undo. John” gave a most in­
teresting and enjoyable talk to ‘‘his 
girls.” It lias been two years since 
Dr. Brashear last spoke at M. M. D. 
His time since then has been occupied 
in Government work. But now that he 
is free again, we. hope he will often 
speak to us, for it certainly is a treat 
to hear him.
Dr. Brashear spoke about the won­
derful inventions and improvements 
along scientific lines during his life 
time. I-Ie told many of his personal 
experiences with famous scientists of 
the last quarter of a century, experi­
ences both serious and amusing. He 
related many of the wonders of our 
own universe and of other universes 
just discovered. Dr. Brashear ended 
his talk with the inspiring thought 
that no matter how great a knowledge 
of science one possesses, it is the 
willingness to share with others what 
one knows, the greater knowledge of 
a wise, All-Powerful, who arranged the 
known and the unknown, the “religion 
of humanity” that makes the world 
worth living in. That thought,, com­
ing from a man who is the very per­
sonification of such an idea, was one 
that made a deep impression upon all 
that heard it.
CAPTAIN EDWARD STEIDLF. 
TO PROMOTE MINING DEPT.
¦"MF. DIISEl RECEIVES DIG 
GOVERNMENT APPOINTMENT
Captain Edward Stcidle has just ro- 
cejitly returnel from Europe, after a 
j lliinonlhs’ stay overseas, where ho 
went through the big fight from the 
beginning of the big drive. 1-Ie was 
originally attached to the 30th Engi­
neers, but was later placed in com- 
mand of the First Battalion of the 
First Gas Regiment. He spent three 
I months with’ the British Army, a 
month with the French and for tho 
last few months of the struggle was 
not out of the 10-milo zone, lie was 
wounded twice, has been cited for tho
D. S. C., and has received the Croix 
de Guerre.
Captain Steidle is a nativo of Wil­
liamsport, Pa., where his parents still 
live. He is a graduate of Penn State, 
1011, and took his Master’s Dgroe at 
that institution in 1914. He was sub­
sequently Mining Engineer with tho 
United States Bureau of Mines In 
charge of the Utah and Nevada dis­
trict. During 1913 he was engineer on 
the Mine Rescue Car in the Pittsburgh 
district..
His work with the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology will consist largely of 
field work and to promote the idea of 
building up <'i mining department 
which will be in close contact with the 
industries.
third lap or me i«u0 — lost it, outdistancing even the veteran ,Backs With Russell in the 100-yard negle Ins.tltute 01 ........................................flash, Petrv and Hawkins must be con. courses m a number ot departments,
pidered for, although not as speedy as “ enaWe ,s‘ud“ts r - ..... in the pink of fchen way througk school to completethe course in less than the specified J 
time. During the past year, the work 
of the Institute was rearranged on a 
I quarterly basis, instead of the semes-1 
|J;er basis formerly in vogue. This en­
ables the students . to complete the j 
four-year coarse of twelve quarters in 
three years. This innovation of the | 
Carnegie Institute of Technology is be-1 
ing widely employed by American Col­
leges.It is expected that not only a con­
siderable number of the students will j 
take advantage of the opportunities of 
the summer school, but many teachers 
will come to Pittsburgh to study along 
the lines of their professional work. 
The plan of studies has been arranged 
to be of special service to men who 
have been in the army and navy, and 
who wish to make up the time they 
have lost from their college work, in 
order to start their college course 
more successfully next September.
A large number of technical courses 
will be offered, which will include 
classes for regular engineering stu- j 
dents as well as classes for high school 
teachers in the Division of Science and j 
Engineering. Courses will also be of-1 
fered in the Division of Industries. The j 
announcement contains a statement of • 
work in Organic and Inorganic Chem-! 
istry, General Physics, History of ‘ 
(Continued on Page Four.')" j
sidered for, altnougn _Russell, they are both in the pink of 
condition. ¦ Arnold and Gare will take 
:are of the 120 high and 220 low'bur­
iles. Davidson and Bowman, who are 
)oth good for better than 20 feet, will 
ake care of the broad jump, and the 
winner of this event will have to jump 
around the 21-foot mark if Davidson is 
an condition. Smith and Stults,' both 
jean clear 10y2 feet in the pole vault, 
Iwhile Harman and Smith cover the 
fliigh jump department. In the shot- 
put and discus throw, the veteran El- 
Aerton and Schlumpf will represent 
rTecli, while “Fritz” Faville’s hobby is 
[ (Continued on Page Four.)
TO THE FEW CONCERNED
Will You Please Attend To 
This Without Delay
There are, at tho present time a 
few who have failed to pay the i 
1 o U for the amount of il.OO. Ibis 
(money 'has been due since January, 
iand should be paid immediately. A 
Lrangements have been made to.have 
this done at the Tech Post Office, 
¦lease give this mr ter your imme- 
liate attention.
OPEN YOUR EYES
The time has now come when Tech is determined to 
place her name, not among those of numerous other Universi­
ties and Colleges, but only at the top. No longer will we sit 
back and say: “That is why we lost.”
As we look about the campus there comes to us the feeling 
of hurry and the determination of success. If you personally 
are so slow that you have failed to notice it, wake up, and 
see if there is still a little spirit in your dead body. (The 
graveyard is over the hill.) /
The Tartan was placed in the hands of Student Activities 
on May 19th, 1919.
Copies are mailed weekly, to every Prep or High School, 
from which Tech has drawn or will get her men. Our mailing 
list has now reached the high water mark Of 500 copies. When 
The Tartan goes to your old school, it goes to tell them what 
Tech is, what she has, and what you have helped to make 
her. Think it over.
The paper is yours. Your representatives have taken it 
and you are going to make it go. Are you satisfied with your 
four pages published once a week? YES or NO?
The next time you make a purchase, little or big, just ask 
the proprietor if his advertisement is. in The Tartan. If! you 
had the heart to give P. T. a trial you can certainly do this 
and, why, in a little while there will be eight pages. If you 
double the ads you will double the news. Come on—try it and 
prove it. Don’t forget. You, too, faculty.
Professor William N Dorsoy, head In­
structor of foundry at the Cnrnogio In­
stitute of Technology, lias Just .boon 
appointed assistant In the Training 
Method Section of tho United States 
Training Service. This sorvlco Is un­
der the Department of Labor and Pro­
fessor Dosey 1B directly under Charles 
T. Clayton, tho Dlroctor at Washing­
ton, D. C.
The United Slates Training Sorvlco 
was established during tho war to pro­
mote. eflloloncy In war-time Industrial 
training and certain parts of tho sorv­
lco have boon retained after the war. 
Professor Dosey's work will I In along 
the linos of training appronticos anil 
up-grading all liolp in foundry practice. 
Associated with him on the commis­
sion are somo of the host known men 
In this Hold. Among thorn are Dr. Mol- 
donlce, an author of important, works 
on foundry practice; Professor Iv 
nody of tho University of Illinois; C.
C. Slioon, Superintendent of Training 
of tho Yale and Towno Company; 
Walter F. Prince, a well-known foun­
dry engineer of Flushing, N. Y.; and 
W. II. Hoffman, President of the New 
York Foundrymon’s Association.
Mr. Dosey is a native of Shohoygan, 
Wisconsin, and was a foundry appi en­
tice as a boy. In later life ho was con. 
nected with the Allis-Clialmers Com­
pany and with the Smith Copper and 
Bronze Company. Since 1907, lie has 
been connected with the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology in the Foundry 
Division.
Numerous Medals To Be 
Given
SCIENCE PHYSICS OPTION MEN CET TOGETHER
Another club was added to the list 
of organizations which represent the 
different courses in Science School 
when the men in the Science Physics 
Option Group got together on Friday, 
May 16, and organized the C. G. S. 
Club.
The occasion was a dinner held at 
the Y. W. C. A. Hospitality House. All 
the members of the Sophomore and 
Junior Classes of the Physics Course 
(there are no Seniors in this group 
this year, since this is only the sec­
ond year since this course Jjegan), as 
well as the entire faculty of the 
Science Physics Department, were in 
| attendance.
The election of officers for the C. 
G. S. Club resulted as follows: 
President, Conrad A. Stone,
Vice President, L. E. Dietrich. 
Secretary-Troasurer, L. 13. Emerich. 
The purpose of tho club will be to 
extend tho interest of the members in 
the subject of Physics. Meetings will 
be hold monthly at. which well-known 
physicists will be Invited to speak.
It is also intended to make the club 
of a social nature and refreshments 
will be served at tho meetings,
The (dub lias been granted the use of 
tho rooms in tho rear of iloom 200 
Science, to be used as club rooms. A 
I wireless receiving set has been In* 
j stalled in.the one'room and additions 
to the club library are constantly be-
1 ing made.
The big .event of the year at Tech, 
as far as track athletics are con­
cerned. will be the Inter-scholastic 
Track Meet, which will take place on 
Saturday, May 31. Over 200 high 
schools and preparatory schools in 
Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, West 
Virginia, Maryland and Kentucky liavo 
been invited to send teams to contest 
for the Middle Western Inter-scholas­
tic Championship. Acceptances have 
been pouring in to the athletic faculty 
in charge of this event for several 
weeks. A full bill of events will bo 
run off and the team that takes homo 
the huge.silver loving cup that Tech 
has put up will have to trim the class­
iest of the high schools in the Mid­
dle West to do It. Beside tho loving 
cup that will bo given to the team 
winning the greatest number of points 
in tho meet, individual prizes will be 
awarded to tho winners of the first, 
second and third places in each event. 
These prizes will take the form of 
medals and will be gold for first, silver 
for second and bronze for third placo 
winners, respectively.
The athletic faculty of the institu­
tion have worked hard to make this 
a banner event at Tech and, in view of 
tho youth of tho Tech team, tho visit­
ors will And many things of kindred 
Interest at the Pittsburgh institution.
Of course, Honus Wagner will bo 
there.’ Honus Is general athletic train­
er of Tec'll, and a wolcomo to tho visit­
ors would not bo a full welcome unless 
Honus woro on hand with Ills raro 
smile and “Howdy, boy.” Not a lit­
tle of tho credit of tho affair Is duo to 
Doctor William L. Marks, gonoral 
athlotic director. "Doc” Is a tlroloss 
worker In Tech athletics, and no mat­
ter what tho sport is, you always 11 ml 
"Doc” In a suit, working out. with tho 
boys. Captain William B. Hazel, tho 
track coach, who has built up a team 
of speod boys from a crowd of green 
Freshmen and Sophomores, will be on 
tho Job In his official capacity to help 
malco the visitors feel at homo. Track 
Manager C, V. Little lias conducted 
tho correspondence with tho visiting 
teams and has made arrangements for 
entertainment of those teams that 
would be forced to stay over night at 
Tech. Manager Llttlo Is a Toledo 
(O.) boy, and has had a wide experi­
ence In high school athletics.
Automobiles will moot the trains on 
the Saturday morning the visitors ar­
rive- and Tech men will form the re­
ception committee lo provide for tho 
ontortalninent of the visiting Loams. 
The fraternity houses will he thrown 
open to homio thosp teams that are 
unable lo return home Saturday even­
ing. The Tech cafeteria will provide 
th(< fuel for the Inner man. At. 12 
o’clock the Ural, of the events will be 
run off, and the elimination contests 
hold. Following the eliminations the 
finals will lake placo and the winners 
selected.
Saturday evening thero will be a 
(Continued on Page Four.)
M. M. 0. ELECTIONS FOR ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
The only form of athletics at M. M.
D. just- now is hockey. The rainy 
weather and the resulting bad condi­
tion of the field have kept back prac­
tice. A great deal of interest is be­
ing shown in the game. Captains for 
class teams have been chosen and tho 
teams will soon be working hard for 
the inter-class matches. The result of 
the election was as follows:
President, Anita O’Connor.
Vice President, Mary Zarobsky.
Head of Hockey, Mildred Spencer.
Head of Basket Ball, Mabel Alexan­
der.
Head of Swimming, Helen Hester.
Head of Hikes, Mary Zarobsky.
Head of Tennis, Amelia Shade.
efo off ofr ofr rtr .j. .j. »j«
*
As Tho Tartan is now under 
?J* Student Activities, they desire 
that every one, with or without * 
experience, who would like to * 
•J* make himself a candidate for •!*
* Business Staff, to leave his name
*:• at the Post Office, addressed in * 
*!? cane of Tho Tartan Business *<? 
*:• Manager. *
At the. end of this term, the * 
best men will he selected for * 
the following year. No office Is ••• 
filled) on tho Business Staff at * 
•J* the prr-sont time. Everybody 
that shows the right kind of *!• 
work will secure a position. 
Tho best men will get. the best. ?!»
Those qualifying for positions 
on tho Staff will receive In- *’• 
*!• sign la. *
If you caro for activities but *
* not athletics, this Is tho. time ?
v to show what you have. »!•
* EVERYBODY IS WELCOME. *

---------------------------------------------------

<_£T
PAGE TWOTHE TARTAN
®artan
Published every 
Technology.week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of
Entered In thepos'lo/flce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
(Copyrighted 101» by Henry F. Scheetz, Jr.)
'/’bln year $1.00
SUBSCRIPTION KATES
5c the copy Canada, $1.25
Phone, Hazel 0425.
Business Manager
Phone Schenley 11025
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editors.
J. J. iludlslll.
Assistant Editors.
A. C, May.
G. A. Willard.
School Editors
M. M. C. S.................Margaret Sondheim
Science ................................. K. IC. Knaell
Industries ..............................H. W. Lynn
Design ..................................... G. T. Miller
Night ..................................... Julius Foster
Athletic Editor 
W. J. Raven scroft 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. O, 8. Assistants 
Edith Braden 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shaeffer 
Helen Young 
BUSINESS 
Assistants 
John G. Keel an 
Martin I. Cohen. 
Circulation Manager 
II. G. Atchley
TARTAN OFFICE.
Hours—2:00 lo 4:00 Wednesdays. 
4.30 to 8:00 Thursdays.
..Room 162, Design
The Editor-Jn-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag­ing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay In delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, the signature to be withheld if desired.
'SCIENCE STUDENTS HEAR | SECUNIJ SAFETY LECTURE!
Last week Lhe Science SLudenlsI 
were addressed by Mr. Williams, the 
chief engineer of the National Safe­
ty Council.
The first point which Mr. Williams 
brought out was the element of 
faligue in workers. Just as materials 
will fail at a low point If subjected 
to an alternating load, so will 
man's body suffer from fatigue. Ex­
tend the metaphor. Materials are 
bought according Lo specifications 
and in a similar way men should be 
hired according to specifications. 
These are the two things with which 
engineers deal—men and materials,
Safety is not saving men from 
danger, but rather saving men foi 
danger. It means being on .the alert 
and Lhinking quickly. Safely must 
be obtained through three channels. 
These are engineering, supervision 
and the education of workingmen.
These steps must be taken in the 
order named andi neglect of one 
means complete failure. The ineffi­
ciency of many of the safety move­
ments can be directly traced to the 
omission of one of these factors.
In speaking of Bolshevism, Mr. 
Williams said that .every engineer 
should know that discontent cannot 
be alleviated by resorting to violence. 
His men should know that lihe office 
is not the place where men gel 
fired.
It should be the center of common 
understanding and good will.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28, 19
DR. BLEININGER ADDRESSES
THE CHEMISTS CLUB
All news Items ^.ust be in the student postofllce, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays. 28
BUILDING CHARACTER
“! won’t count time,” says the drunken Rip Van Winkle of 
Jefferson’s play after every dereliction. He may not count it, a 
kind heaven may not count it, but down among his nerve cells it is 
being counted none the less; storing it up against him to be used for 
iiis destruction when the next temptation comes.
Not that Tech students are Rip Van Winkles, but habits more 
dangerous, more insidious and a thousand times more probable are 
being shaped by every one. Could students but realize the latent 
power of habit, surely they would give more thought and effort to 
shaping their character properly while it'is still in the plaster state. 
Today we are spinning the threads of character and every thread 
of vice or virtue will leave a faint but unfading scar.
Beware! The slightest action leaves its mark. We are soon only 
bundles of habits and whether avc are successes or failures depends
JOBS FOR DISABLED YANKS
An executive order recently issued 
by the President and received by 
cable amends the Federal civil serv­
ice rules so as to permit Lhe U. S. 
Civil Service Commission to waive 
the- physical requirements under cer­
tain conditions in favor of men who 
were injured in the military or naval 
service.
The civil service regulations spec­
ify certain physical defects which de­
bar from all examinations and other 
defecls which will debar from cer­
tain examinations. These regulations 
are based upon the requirements of 
the service as established by the sev­
eral department heads.
Upon the recommendation o/^.lhei 
commission, after consult- ¦ 
the Federal Board f.n’A,«^- -‘Lion with 
ucation and tb;
pensa Lion
1 to**
!'l J:' Vocational Ed* 
J. S. Employes’ Com-
upon lhe threads out of which the bundle is made! B/>-*“ura 1)0iffP.. /on
'Òommission, the Presdcnt
do what is required of you only. Do ryU iraf ^ L strong! Don’t 
the future will take Clll’^^i^jjnjjljjj^l !?ou can. Do your best, and 
work, * 11 |!- Learn self-confidence and how to
JuäiKIppy morning you will find yourself among the com-
an executive order, as follows:
i.ent ones of your generation.
WORTH TRYING
Can lite student account for every minute in the 24 hours of 
every da y 7 It is doubtful. 11! a person keeps an efficiency chart it 
is surprising the amount olì time that cannot lie accounted for. After 
everything of value has been tabulated and totaled, there is from 4. 
to 8 hours of timo lost, Try it once, it will “open your eyes.”
A FIND
It was with a good deal of pleasure that The Tartan found out 
that all the slander in the daily papers of Pittsburgh concerning the 
students and I*. T. here, did not in any way, come from the Pub­
licity Department. Nothing that reflects discredit on the school in 
any way, shape or form, is indulged in by (his department. They 
want news, all the news, but only clean news ever goes to the daily 
papers.
Adverse criticism among the members of the student body, | tion: 
should cease. This .information reached lhe papers through some 
other channel.
“Provided, that the commission 
may, in its discretion, exempt from 
Lhe physical requirentenls establish­
ed for any position a disabled! and 
honorably discharged soldier, sailor, 
or marine upon the certification of 
the Federal Board for Vocational Ed­
ucation tilnal he has been specially 
trained for and lias passed a prac­
tical LesL demonstrating his physical 
ability to perform the duties of the 
class of positions in which employ­
ment Is sought.1
In submitting ils recom mend'n Li on 
Lo Lhe President the Civil Service 
Commission said: ‘‘Where IL is ap
paronl Lo tills commission that his 
(the disabled soldier’s, sailor’s or 
marline’s) physical condition is such 
that ho would not ordinarily bo ac­
cepted, the ense will be nel’erred Lo 
the Federal Board for Vocational Ed- 
ucation. That board will then dochl 
whether it. Is practicable to .educat 
him for thie- position sought;. If con 
sldorod praclicable, the rehabilitation 
and education will be given and 
when compleLed cert Ideation of that 
I’acl will be made Lo this commission. 
Where the board does not consider 
it desirable to attempt the education 
for the position sought other posi-
Dr. A. V. Bleninger of the Bureau 
of Standards, gave a very interesting 
talk on the ‘‘Principles of Some 
Fundamental Processe s in Ceramic 
Engineering.”
The speaker discussed the theory 
of clays telling which1 clays were best 
for certain uses, and also gave some 
valuable advice in the manufacture 
of pottery, chemical stoneware, elc.
The only regret the aud’ience had 
was that Dr. Bleninger could not go 
into, greater detail but this was im­
possible, due to the many practical 
applications of ceramics in the indus­
trial world.
SCHOOL NOTES
The Tech Mechanic’s will hold their 
annual dance in the Carnegie Union at 
the Carnegie InstiLute of Technology 
on June 3.
June 5 will be the date of the an- 
nual T. A. C. Dance, which will be 
held in Carnegie Union of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. L. C. Smith 
will be in Charge of Lhe affair.
On June 13 Llie "plebes” from the 
Design School will hold their annual 
dance at Carnegie Union. C. A. Lake 
will be in charge of the affair, which 
will embrace students from all four of 
Lhe schools in Lhe Division of Applied 
Design.
Miss Gail Sellers, secrelary to Mary 
B. Breed, Dean 'of the Margaret Mor- 
rjson Division o' the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, spent last Saturday 
and Sunday at her home, Dunn’s Sta­
tion, which is near Waynesburg, Va.
I FRATERNITY NOTES f
ZETA LAMBDA EPSILON
Butts, Vollmer, Cunningham, Lip- 
pincolt, and McDade are around flpWi 
after having be»".oil uiscnarged from the
-JT^eerith Engineers.
Jimmie Ciffin had a real birthday 
last week. It was one in which the 
whole house could join in celebrating. 
And it was celebrated.
Red Klieves was considerably wor­
ried over >lhe possibility of a prolonga- 
lion of.Lhe street car strike. Nuf ced.
PHI EPSILON PI
Fraters EisensLat and Gladstein 
have just returned from New York, 
where they represented the chapter at 
the national convention held there re­
cently. They brought back the glad 
tidings that Pittsburgh was the unan­
imous choice for next year’s conven­
tion.
The chapter announces the initia­
tion of Mr. Maurice Jacobs, ’21, 011 
Saturday, May 17, 15)19.
Abe Levy has returned to Lhe fold. 
He was just released from active serv­
ice in the Navy, where he served as 
an ensign.
OPHELltUM FRATERNITY
The fraternity held an initiation 
Saturday evening, May 24, followed 
by a banquet at Schenley Hotel. The 
following men were initiated': Janies 
William Batman. Richard W. Arnold, 
Auirust Kaii" Harry C. Shaw and 
Lincoln T. Young.
ANNOUNCEMENT
7
i
The Department For The Training Of Industrial 
Teachers
offers to students entering next September 
TWENTY-FIVE SCHOLARSHIPS 
Of a cash value of one hundred dollars ($100.00) each 
to be distributed as follows:
10 in the City of Pittsburgh 
5 In Allegheny County 
10 Unrestricted
Scholarships will be awarded on a competitive 
basis. Candidates must meet all requirements speci­
fied for regular admission to the course. For further 
information and application forms address the Reg­
istrar, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
,l
'ileV
P
RICE for price, grade for grade, 
there is no better pipe made 
thanaWDC. You can get a pipe 
with the familiar triangle trade­
mark in any size and shape and 
grade you want—and you will be 
glad you did it. WDC Pipes are 
American made and sold in the 
best shops at $6 down to 75 cents.
WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York
World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer
Here is a pipe to be proud of in any company. Genuine Freaah Briar, cnrefully selecteiiVbenuti- 
fully worked, superbly mounted with sterling band and vulcanite bit.
$
Official Announcement
CALENDAR OF COMMENCEMENT EVENTS
1 have in course of preparation the Calendar of Events which the 
Institute issues cneli ,liuic in connection with Commencement. Stu­
dent and alumni organizations, and faculty members, who are plan­
ning events in connection with Commencement, are requested to give 
me the information at an early date for the calendar. As it is de­
sirable that1 no conflicts occur, it is suggested that the calendar on 
iile in my office be consulted before setting a date.
A. W. TAEBELL,
Dean of Men.
The President’s Office has received the following telegram dated 
Hay 19th, 1919,-from the government:
"The Marine Corps urgently desires to enlist discharged marines 
anil soldiers, including men having had at least two months’ Student. 
Army Training Corps training in marine or army sections, if physi 
«ally qualified, for special limited service overseas replacing marines 
in Army of Occupation and b'ranco. Such volunteers will remain 
overseas until fall xvhen all murines will he returned. Upon return 
lo United States in the fall these specially enlisted men will be dis­
charged. We deeply appreciate your bringing this lo the attention of 
students. Men interested should apply lo nearest .Marine Corps re 
crniting ollleo.
(Signed) GEORGK BARNETT,
Major Genl. Comdt.
ttttmwmjHmtmmmmnmtMHtmiitMmmsmiraimmmimittmMmttmimmi
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES’ DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
BEGINNERS’ CLASSES MONDAY AND FRIDAY 
ADVANCED CLASS WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY
will be considered and suggest-1 , , ,oil to him, bat ho will not ho admit-! Arrangements lmve hoea completed 
loii lo the one for which his physical, £or lhe “,lnun dl“er “ . ST? 
condition consulates an irremediable b" heW 1,1 tl,e twentieth Century bar Club on the evening of June 13.
The fraternity announces the pledg-
TRACK TEAM IN FINE
CONDITION TO WORK
(Continued From Fage One.) 
heaving the hammer. Taken all-in-all. 
Tech is going into the Inter-Collegi- 
ates with full confidence in the ability 
of her athletes to uphold the athletic 
prowess of the institution.
ing of Francis Johnstone Simons of 
Charleston, S. C. Mr. Simons is a 
graduate of Russell College. During 
the war he 'held the rank of captain 
in the cavalry.
During the last week ‘many of the 
alumni who have been with the 15th 
Engineers, have been in Pittsburgh 
and visited the brothers.
! EHifP
mmL:
EHVRGH!
¥HE
.SiXIM PRESBVTERIÄM CHURCH Ä
WAmrs whus a
:r~r ~ ndTrc-TI,im mtrgil15TTE.M JwDrrvvvvvvvv
BENJAMIN F. FARBER, MINISTER 
Formerly Religiousand Welfare Workerwith A. E. F. 
EVERY SUNDAY MORNING AT 11 A. M.
On Sunday evenings at 8 P. M. a series of patri­
otic-religious sermons based on Dr. Farber’s “over­
seas’’ experiences.
May 18, “The Spirit of Our Soldiers;” May 25, 
‘•Lest We Forget—G. A. R.;” June 1, “This Side 
of Ovar-Thcre;” June 8. “The Miracle of De­
mocracy;” June 15, “Gen. Foch, the Great Leader.”
Cigars-
SKIBO INN”
EATS
---------------a n d-----------------C a n d i e s
Oakland 
Community House |
3904 FORBES STREET
You are urged to make use of the 
POOL ROOM 
READING ROOM REST ROOM
House open from 9 A. M.—11 P. M. 
EVERYBODY WELCOME
iMnnannasunwsitiwam}”1
pilli
BATTERY
‘*j£*
iOe
SERVICE
IRON «ELECTRIC CO.
436 SEVENTH AVE.
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
lllinillllllllIHIIIIlDIII[llllllllli:ilil!illJlim|llllI!lllllllllllllDlllll!IIUI!llll!!U|ll
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES IB HOSIERY ...........PENN ID FRMKSTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as often ^ 
as not told by his footwear—if he is 
careless of that, he’s apt to be negii. i 
gent of more important things. Iic 
you will buy your shoes here, you may j 
be certain of looking all right, feeling\ 
all right and impressing others with i 
the fact that you are “all right.” Our1 
Shoes are built by some of the most \ 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair. Special Men’s Dept.HOTEL SCHENLEY
-----------at------------
SCHENLEY PARK
lïKBIMlfÉBQ^

---------------------------------------------------

KPfma
DNESDAY, MAY 28. 1919
Referring to :i permanent memorial 
for the Tech men, who lost their lives 
in the service of the country, Presi­
dent I-Iamerschlag takes the stand that 
the form of this memorial should be 
something that will serve more as an 
inspiration than one that is of practi­
cal value.
Led by its president, the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology is emerging 
into a new life and boldly entering 
new fields of study. The work of in­
dustrial research will be pushed 
through. A number of research which 
are to be maintained jointly by the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology and 
important business organizations have 
been proposed, and announcements of 
these new developments will be made 
in the future.
The Regiment
(By EDWARD LUCAS WHITE.)
We marched together from the town. With throbbing drums and swirling gusts of song.Raw boys, and each unknown to ench,A loose and restive herd nine hundred strong.But all set resolute and firm To battle for the right and rout the wrong.
Dr. Arthur A. Hamerschlng has just 
issued his annual report to the trus­
tees of the institution. This report 
deals with the work of the past year, 
and is occupied largely with the share 
that the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology had in the education of men for 
the various branches of war service.
Seven thousand six hundred and 
fifty soldiers and sailors were trained 
in this institution, from April, 1!)1S. to 
Christmas of the same year. At the 
time the armistice was signed, there 
were 011 the campus nearly 2,700 men. 
At the present time, of all the special 
activities that were inaugurated dur­
ing the war. there remains only the 
School for Turbine Engineers that was 
opened to fit naval ofiicers to qualify 
as Chief Engineers in the new Ameri­
can Merchant Marine. It is doubtful 
if any educational institution in the 
country did a larger work in educating 
men as soldiers and sailors.
President Hamerschlag, during the 
war. acted as Chief of the Bureau of 
Industrial Research under Quarter­
master General Goetlials. In one of 
the most important statements made 
by Dr. Hamerschlag he says: “The
year which has just elapsed has only 
strengthened our conviction that the 
future of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology is closely associated with 
the progressive plan of co-operation 
between scientific education and in­
dustrial enterprise. Industrial re­
search offers the most direct and pro­
ductive return which the nation can 
secure in the solution of its com­
mercial, industrial and social prob­
lems.”
a Students Welcome -5
FRED SUDDABY’S 
| CAFETERIA
3 BUREAU OF MINES BLDG. pi
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. §
Every school day.
/¡A Monroe7 a 'jYlonroeJTThb 
dh11OT
In camp and march, retreat nnd fight. In hail of bullets and of shell.We found our comrades brothers born.We learned to know each other well. To trust the living and regret And honor every man who felL
iTT- PE ABODY- ¿v Co : I jd i yU0929
The longest — 
lasting benefit, 
the greatest 
satisfaction for 
your sweet 
tooth.
ELLEFIELD SHOE | 
REPAIRING I
ltj FORBES STREET 1
g])pposite Carnegie Library. || 
‘ ih class work done while you & 
wait. [3
cl I. SCHWARTZ g
LOW PRICES TO TECH §j 
W STUDENTS ®
Give us a trial.
Through cheering throngs we trod the streets,Our slit flag overhead.The land we saved beneath our feet. Reliance in our tread,Five hundred soldiers, thewed and tanned. And mindful of our dead
A recital was held Sunday evening 
in t’he School of Design of the Car­
negie Institute of Technology by the 
students in the School of Music. 
The first number was a duet from 
Brahms. The program:
1 Brahms—Vivace ma non troppo—
from the Sonata for piano and 
violin—
Isabel Palmer and Frances Klayle.
2 Wienlswaki—Allegro moderato—
from Concerto op. 22—
Dorthy Manor.
3 Mendelssohn—Two songs without
words—from Co- ms.O ?nnn 
words, IS and 17, Caprice in 
A minor, op. —
Jane Keiser.
4 Hamburg—First. Movement. Sec­
ond Concerto Allegro, Mass- 
toso—
Stewart Blackmoro (qualifying
• course.)
Nathaniel Robin (accompanist.)
5 Unknown old French Gavotte—2
Obo's, 2 Clarinets, Bass Clar­
inet and Basson (arranged by 
Mildred Lawton.)
Samuel Wagner, Henry Robinson, 
Clyde Mitchell, Ernest Marini, Wal- 
Clyde Bostwick and Island Coow.
6 Nat'haniel Robin—Flute soli
Pastorale; Nocturne—
John Bedr, Nathaniel Robin (accom­
panist.)
7 Spehr Allegro Moderato from
quintette op. 32, Piano, Flute, 
Clarinet, Horn and Bassoon — 
Isabel Palmer, John Beor, Ernest 
Marini, Bernard Marini, John Sel­
lars.
WRIGLEY5
CHURCHESin the sealed 
packages.
Air-tight and 
impurity-proof.
PAUL’S CATHEDRAL
ftli Ave. and Craig St.
¡sos: 15:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and
! A. Ivl. on Sundays and Holy
pers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
r 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu-
SEALED TIGHT 
KEPT RIGHTThird United 
resbyterian Church
jy and Northumberland Avenues
axled Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Caching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
\P. M.
png People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
jef and Warm-Hearted Messages, 
bordial welcome to all.
™*-P ÇRFECT GUM P
rprm : üiLMumiLuLULULiiLÍ
WRAPPED"F"- iTiirm;mTinirnnir’ffilCLEYSTTffipfaia^ I
mewing gijm r AGreat Eats at 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STS. 
Fred Suddaby, Pro^r.Grace Church
(Reformed)
ARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK c. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES: 
inday School—9:45 A. M. 
brning Worship—11 A. M.
}ristian Endeavor—7 P. M.
»pular Evening Services at 7:45. 
¡rmons for Head and Heart.
Hearty Welcome for All.
3jgjgjg/2j2j3f(5/gj(3f(3iThe 
Flavor
Lasts
TRANSITS AND LEVELS |j 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
We went our ways to scattered homes, AH the wide arts,We lived our different lives, fulfilled Our destined parts,Whatever came or went remem- Brance in our hearts.
Amid proud recollections and display. Moist eyed, with quivering lips, we met one day.Some six scoro veterans, world worn, keen, and gray.
Overheard on the campus:
Plebe Why Is it that we do not 
have a better gym here at Tech?
Senior—Foolish question. They are 
waiting for some alumnus to get rich 
and then die and have a Memorial 
Gymnasium.
•¡ELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
|i CHURCH
ffeellefieid and Fifth Avenues 
•lev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
| Minister.
| Preaching Services 11 and 8.
i Sunday school at 10. 
v Christian Endeavor at 7.
• We want the Tech boys to at- 
(fend our services and learn to 
('now us as the congregation of 
' Friendly People." A hearty 
‘Velcome awaits you.
Blnce then, with each recurring year, A dwindling band, we gathered hero For reminiscence and good cheer.
Wo gather, as of old;Warm, greeting hands we hold.And now the doors unfold.
DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxodoa, Cutawayn, Prlnco Al­
berto, ctc. Evening Wo nr Aooocioorlou.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
0001-0002-0003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phono Grant 1587. Night Phone - Neville 1530-W.
Trouble In the Future.
The pessimist is always anticipat­
ing new varieties of trouble.- One eon 
temporary gloomstor easts his eye for­
ward to the day when wireless tele­
phony will be so perfect that a mar 
will have a receiver In his hat and In 
i-.v itta vMfo »'I the lime.
Engineers' Equipment, Instru­
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
At every place We seem to trace A well loved face.
And see. But three Are wo.I<26 .SIXTH STREET
WAS LAST OF HEROES
PENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
îworth Avenue and Neville Street 
jpR. WYATT BROWN Rector 
î. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant, 
finday Services,/8:00 a. m., 11:00 
m. and 8:00 p. m.
|)1 lege Men’s Bible Class at 10:00, 
•by Dr. Calvin.
I Students Genuinely Welcome.
Jeremiah Donovan, Who Helped Take 
Powder Train to Antietam, Sur- 
vived All His Comrades.
M
ITE the death of Jeremiah 
C. Donovan, marble and 
granite cutter, the list of 
those who helped save the 
. North from Invasion In 
1862 by taking a powder 
( J y train through to Antietam 
*ost lts *ast name.
A&&/A General McClellan was 
fighting desperate! y 
against Lee’s combined 
forces on the field of An- 
‘‘.a-- tietain. when he discov­
ered that powder was scarce, so that 
he could not use his. heavy artillery 
against the Confederate forces. Mc­
Clellan telegraphed, to Washington 
that he must have powder at once. A 
trainload of explosives was hastened 
to Bridgeport, Pa., and the. Cumber­
land Valley railroad was requested to 
carry it over its line to Antietam. Vol­
unteers were sought to run the engine.
“I’ll take it to Antietam or to hell!” 
said Joe Miller, engineer, as he 
stepped to t/ie throttle.
With the tracks clear for a stretch 
of 78 miles between the Susquehanna 
and the Potomac, Joe Miller and his 
crew made record r—
time with only two i—
stops. When ' the; 
train reached Cham- 
bersburg the axle 
boxes weie ablaze, 
and Jeremiah Dono- 
van. then seventeen
teered his services"
? e vainly tried to i
keep the axle boxes
cool during the spurt
to Hagerstown, eight . v'
miles from Antietam.
It resembled a train of fire and smoke 
as it pulled into the Maryland city.
The powder saved the day for .Mc­
Clellan and placed the crew of lhe 
powder train on lhe unrecorded roll of 
lhe heroes of Antietam. Donovan was 
the last survivor. He was a native of 
Chambersbarg.
YPEWRITERS AND 
LDDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
paired; allowing rental to ap- 
y on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty
“Written guarantee with each 
iachine. Victor and Fox 
gency.FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.
i 428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office 
Phone Court 866.
All the world
loves a lover —
And all discriminating 
lovers of cigarettes love 
Murads—
Because Murads are pure Turk­
ish, the world’s most famous tobacco 
for cigarettes.
And the Fame of Murads grows 
and grows and grows—they are 100 
per cent Turkish, and they are 100 
per cent popular with connoisseurs 
everywhere.
It is true that “ordinary” 
cigarettes cost a trifle less.
ELI010US CAKES 
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
HE HALLER BAKERY
3610 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
R. SIEDLE & SONS ewelers and Silversmiths 518 WOOD STREET
Pittsburgh
Unbreakable Watch 
Crystals
Judge for yourself—!
GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
----------at the----------
and Egyptian ôgantksin tlic\VMThe Egg In History.
The Jews adopted tin egg to suit 
the circumstances of their history a« 
a symbol of their departure from the 
land of Pharoah, and It was used ib 
the feast of the passever as a part of 
the furniture of the table, wiih the 
paschal lamb.
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL. Proprietor. 
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOUR
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28, 1
OHIO WESLEYAN TAKES
GAME ON 15TH FIELD DAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
error that was not entirely hi« fault, 
<ll»ported himself as a big league 
baseball player. The box score:
Ohio Wesleyan. AB. R. H. P. A. E.
Thomas, 2b................. 4 1 \ 3 \ q
Battalee, ss................. 5 1 2 3 3 1
Revere, cf...................... 3 1 1 3 0 0
E(1,ar. If........................ 4 2 2 2 0 0
Mackie, c....................... 4 1 1 3 2 0
Watkins, rf................. -1112 0 0
Keller, 3b...................... \ 1 1 0 2 2
Colton, lb..................... 4 1 1 12 0 2
Thomson, p................. 3 0 0 0 8 0
MENORAH SOCIETY
Since last writing, Menorah mem­
bers have participated in the two most 
notable events of its year of activity. 
We were indeed most fortunate in se­
curing, on May 9, the services of Chan­
cellor Hurwitz as speaker. Dr. Gold- 
enson, Judge Cohen and others of his 
friends came to the meeting when 
they heard of his coming. Chancellor 
Hurwitz presented in a forcible man­
ner the ideals, aims and purposes of 
the Menorah as no other man is fit 
to do.
On May 13, the annual dance of the 
Menorah was held at the Hotel 
Chatham. Those present voted the 
affair a complete success. As one of 
the members of the fair sex said, "The 
conditions, weather and otherwise, 
were entirely protitious.”
The next meeting of the society will 
be held on Friday, May 23. Officers 
will be elected for the next college 
year. This is your opportunity, Tech, 
to overcome your oft-expressed objec­
tion, that the officers are drawn not 
from Tech, but from your rival, Pitt. 
Come out and cast your vote.
CHOCOLATES
You are invited to make 
yourself acquainted 
with the 
Reymer Candies 
Selling at Nearly 
All Drug Stores 
or at our own Retail 
Stores 
237 Fifth Ave.
6013 Penn Ave.
437 Fifth Ave.
Totals
Heban, rf.. 
Abrams, cf. 
Gates, If... 
Gretzler, p. 
Lynn, ss... 
Lundell, 2b. 
Mauer, 3b.. 
Hodden, lb. 
Cannon, c.. 
* Reilly .... 
**OakIey .. 
***G'6od ...
NEW YORK CITY CLUB
W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS
| Forbes and Atwood Sts,
?; Phones 160—3160 Schcnlcy 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
All students who come from Great­
er New York are urged to become 
members of the New York City Club.
The purpose of the club is to boost 
Tech in the “big city.”
For information see E. Wendel, 
Ind., Middle Machine, 814 E. Dor­
mitory or L. Newman, Science, Soph. 
Mech., 108 South Doimitor.r.
Watch the bulletin boards.
Boost Tech. Boost Tech.
THE GRAND
One of the most charming stories 
of many a month, Alice Duer Mil­
ler’s ‘‘Come Out of t-he Kitchen,” 
lias been produced in motion picture 
form starring popular Marguerite 
Clark, with Eugene O'Brien in the 
leading male role. It has been se­
cured for presentation by the New 
Million Dollar Grand and will be 
presented at the head of the Grand's 
program all next week, starting Mon­
day, May 26. It is. said to be Miss 
Clark’s greatest picture, and' it cer­
tainly has a better story than any 
previous photoplay in which the 
dainty little actress has appeared.
The most in clothes for tfa money asked!
Savings which insure yo/s 
future purchases! jh°
Good Clothes in all that ttfcii words imply! i ^
Our chain-store system ser*; 3C you! |j°l
Our direct-to-you selling pi. 2 helps you!
Our same-price and 8amf'0'. treatment to all alike alwaji t pleases you!
And our guarantee of satiSry 1 faction protects you!
Be happy, well dressed ar'f;. 
save money by wearing— :BMI
Mi'll—Schcnlcy 389
MISS O’LEARY
(Formerly with .T. E. T. Shumnn) 
DRY CLEANING—REPAIRING 
Lndica' and Mon'* Clothe», Cnrpcta, RuifH, I’orllcrcH Work Gunrnntcod nnd Turned Out on Short Notice,Will call for all iiri-tttilnK and cleanintr at Fra I AAhkBder
3033 FORDES STREET (Oakland) PITTSBURGH, I»A.
Our Own Retail Stores in 
Cleveland) Milwaukee, 
AUron, Pittsburgh 
(3 stores), Youngstown, 
Syrncusc, Wilkes-Barre,
-Reading.
209-211 Smithfield Street / 
507 Market Street 932 Liberty Aveni!;C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
Pittsburgh, Pn.
STATIONERY AND 
NEWSDEALER
Phono 0070 Schonloy 
Courteous nnd Prompt Sorvlcc.
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY i
Baseballs and Gloves Tennis Balls'
3606 FORBES STREET
Found high on the hill, In the valloy,And dotting tlio groon-moadowod plain, Today lot ua solemnly rally To dock tlio fair graves of tho slain.
Whllo duty and valor men cherish,Whllo dovotlon Is dear to tho race.In no ago shall tholr memory perish;In our hearts It must hold first placo.luijtmmmtMmtmmroutttirommmmittHttmHmtmwammmroHtiroauml
I Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
?? Member of Federal Reserve System.
8 “THE OAKLAND BANK" j
g CAPITAL, - - -.................................................................$200,000.00 |
§ SURPLUS,...............................................................................................$200,000.00
tt DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
WALL PAPER 
Wholoonle nnd Rotnll 
Boôko furnished Pnperhnngero 
nnd Donloru,
Picture Framing n Spcclnlty 
3018 FIFTH AVENUE 
At AtwoodSAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
THE FLAG OF OUR COUNTRY
Henry Ward Beecher's Eloquent Trib­
ute to the Majesty of the 
Stars and Stripes.
Shady and Penn Aves,
Mondays, Thursdays, Saturdays 
Two Orchestras Two Dancing Floors
Continuous Dancing
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Beginners Mondays and Thursdays 
OPEN ALL SUMMER(Continued From Page One.) 
Physics, Department of Machine De­
sign, Mathematics, Mechanics, Me­
chanical Drawing, Architectural Draw­
ing, Structural Drawing, Machine Shop 
nnd Electrical Equipment and Con­
struction, Sanitary Equipment and In­
stallation, Automobile Maintenance 
and Operation, in addition to English 
and the Modern Languages. Dormi­
tories will be open to the men students 
for the summer.
g 3708 FORBES STREET ¡3
1 TRY OUR SPECIAL 35c j§
DINNER miH ma From 11 A. M. to 8 p. m.
1 Soup Meat Two Vegetables ¡3
I Dessert Coffee and Tea ¡1]
I Ü
(Continued From Page One.) 
and performers. A clever troupe, con­
sisting of a very tall gentleman and 
two ladies, danced their way into the 
favor and applause of the audience. 
The performance ended with a song, 
which was a conglomeration of every 
song ever written, and which ended 
with the best of all, ‘‘Dear Old Tech.”
The series of class stunts is ended 
now, and it is to be hoped that the 
precedent established this year will 
bo followed by tho classes of coining 
years.
Tho elect ions of tho PI oho Class of 
M. M. D. wore held May 21. The fol­
lowing girls wore elected to olllco for 
next year:
Pro8tdent, Josephine Whitney.
Vice President, lllldogardo Weedy.
Secretary, Marion Scull.
Treasurer, Anne Dougherty.
Senate Representative, Josephine 
Whitney.
Social Chairman, Eleanor Foster.
COMMERCIAL
INVITATIONS
TICKETS
DANCE PROGRAMS 
AND FRATERNITYIVIelSon 
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield Street, 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues
Capital------$6,00C 000
Surplus------$4,000,C00
Resources Over 
$125,000,000
Phipps Power BuildingDaily Thought.
Success is counted sweetest by those 
who ne’er succeed.—Emily Dickinson.Pittsburgh, Pa.Bell Phone 4418 Court
For One Common Memorial Day.
There Is n general observance of 
(he Inst Thursday of November as a 
Thanksgiving day in all or almost nil 
the states. If dllVerent days were set 
apart for rendering tliunks for bless­
ings received during the year, of 
course the spirit of gratitude to God 
would be In evidence, but would not 
its effectiveness as an Inspiration of 
thanksgiving be weaker than if there 
were one comniou day?—Exchange.
POSTERS
Liberty Show Printing 
Company 
Pittsburgh
The Fast Breaker.
.Tust for the sake of giving us some­
thing to start an argument, will some­
body please suggest that as It makes 
a baby cross to cut teeth It .must make 
him cross-eyed' to cut eye teeth..
