Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania28 January 1991
CarnegiM CeloUg 
vMsrat yga,Psg
ByFARRON W. LEVY
Tartan News Editor
It’s one o’clock Saturday morn­
ing and first year music graduate 
student Andrew Gordon, like 900 
other students each day, climbs 
into an Escort Service vehicle to 
betaken home. Gordon appreciates 
the service; however, like many 
others, he notes some serious 
problems.
“The vans have been hurting 
since last semester,” says Gordon. 
“I don’t mind as long as they’re 
safe.” But, he adds, “I don’t know 
how safe they are.”
Last Friday, the question of 
safety came directly to the fore­
front. While travelling down 
Forbes Avenue, the driver of one
Escort Service’s buses pulled 
over after realizing that something 
was awry. It turned out that one of 
the rear wheels of the bus had 
nearly fallen off.
According to Escort driver Ollie 
Holtgraver, the bus was sent on 
an off-campus assignment when it 
should not have been. “A lot of 
work needed to be done on it. The 
speedometer was broken, the gas 
ge was broken, and there was 
no horn,” says Holtgraver. The 
problem was, and continues to be, 
he adds, that the other vehicles 
are forced to cover for those out of 
service, putting a heavy strain on 
the system.
According to Physical Plant, a 
flat tire caused the incident. There 
are two wheels on each side of the 
bus’s rear axle, and when one of 
the inner wheels went flat, it put 
pressure on the outer one causing 
the studs and the lug nuts to be 
sheared off.
The problem is that this is not 
an isolated incident. In fact, says
CMU Police Sergeant William 
Ricci, supervisor of Escort Ser- 
vice, “I can’t honestly remember a 
single 24- hour period without one 
of the vans down or havingto send 
them in for repair.”
“The major problem by far,” he 
says, “is the condition and age of 
the vehicles, and with the budget 
restraints we don’t have any 
money to buy new ones.”
Of the four vehicles in Escort 
Service’s fleet, the two buses are 
ten years and six years old, and 
the two vans are six years and 
three years old. The mileage on 
the buses is in excess of 160,000 
and 140,000 miles respectively, 
and according to Ricci, the rule of 
thumb for determining wear and 
tear on service vehicles is that its 
mileage equals three times that of 
a normal vehicle.
“To put it bluntly, they’re shot,” 
he says. “They’re repaired just 
about daily.”
For an average of 800-900 stu­
dents a day, that means delays 
and overcrowding of the working 
vehicles. However, Escort service 
has higher concerns in mind.
“Our primary concern is the 
safety, that’s what we worry 
about,” says Holtgraver. “With all 
the muggings and nonsense going 
on here it’s not safe. We don’t 
want the students walking.” 
Similarly, says Carina Cornell, 
a driver and dispatcher for Escort 
Service, “Yesterday I saw five 
people look at [how crowded the 
van Was] and turn around and 
start walking, and in this weather 
that’s not safe either.”
Much oi the problem, in terms of 
Physical Plant making repairs, is 
the amount of time it takes. “They 
don’t have a carte blanche system 
Please see ESCORT, page 3
to a
burilM hPsurPM2blatl8 yg8Pra JurtroalCuga
(Russell Franks) and his wife Rosina (Angela Hobbs) quarrel in the Carnegie 
s production of Mozart’s The Marriage of Figaro. The opera began 
sold-out crowd Saturday night. See page L5 for review.
Ross’death
ruledsuicide
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Contributing Editor
The death of junior design major 
Terence Ross was a suicide, accord­
ing to the Allegheny County Coroner’s 
office.
Ross, 22 at the time of his death, 
died from the combined effects of three 
prescription drugs and alcohol. His- 
death was officially listed on his death 
certificate as a combined drug over-; 
dose and as acute intoxication on the 
autopsy report.
Despite the fact that “We didn’t 
find any [suicide note],” according to 
Carnegie Mellon Police Chief James 
LaPaglia, there is little doubt that 
Ross killed himself. “There was cer­
tainly no foul play here at all,” 
LaPaglia said. Also, he pointed out, 
“The numbers and quantity [of the 
drugs found in Ross’ system] would 
rule out accidental [death].”
Ross’ autopsy did not reveal any 
suspicious bruises or other items of 
note, according to Deputy Coroner 
Mary Sweeney. “There isn’t anything 
significant other than the overdose,” 
she said.
Ross suffered from clinical depres­
sion, according to senior computer 
engineeringmajor Jonathan O’Keeffe, 
one of Ross’ Sigma Nu fraternity 
brothers.
Two of the drugs which caused Ross’ 
death, Desipramine and Imipramine, 
are used to treat such depression. 
However, Dr. Edward Friedman, an 
Please see TRAGEDY, page 3
Thousands gather for D.C. protest march
• Carnegie Mellon Men’s and 
Women’s basketball have heart- 
stopping games.
See page 13.
•The Women’s Center celebrates 
one year at Carnegie Mellon.
See page LI.
THE TARTAN
Inside
Classifieds............................15
Diversions............................L5
Features................................LI
Forum.....................................6
Sports...................................13
University Calendar.......LI 2
Vox Populi.................... LI 2
•Share a stogie with columnist 
Andrew Cosentino in “Whatever 
Happened to Platinum Blondes?” 
See page L3.
•Discover the phenomenon of 
Charles in Charge and why it 
continues going strong even after 
seven years.
See page L9.
Mia Farrow stars as Alice in 
Woody Allen’s newest picture. 
The film, Allen’s 20th, also stars 
William Hurt and Joe Mantegna. 
See page L7 for a review.
The protest attracted ail kinds, like Robert Smith and 
Jason Wargo of Rochester, New York.
By ALLISON DURAZZI 
Tartan Features Editor
WASHINGTON, D.C.—Protestors congregated 
in Washington, D.C. Saturday against President 
Bush’s policies toward Kuwait and the Mideast.
As part of the National Mobilization for Peace 
in the Middle East, the march and rally were 
sponsored by the National Campaign for Peace in 
the Middle East out of Washington, D.C.
Protestors estimated the crowd at more than 
300,000. The marchers walked from The Mall, 
past the White House, and onto The Ellipse 
where Jesse Jackson and Molly Yard, president 
of the NOW, made speeches.
Among the protestors were approximately 1,500 
people from Pittsburgh, most of whom caravanned 
on 24 buses sponsored by the Merton Center, a 
local activist organization. Ofthose people, about 
100 students from CMU were present. The 
marchers, mostly families and middle-aged 
people, encountered little in the way of counter 
demonstrations.
Two CFA students, freshman Elana Hoffman 
and junior E.V. Donnelly, made a banner to 
march with on behalf of their peers who could not 
march. They collected 207 signatures on their 
banner, which read “Bring the troops home, stu­
dents for peace, Carnegie Mellon University De­
Rev. Jesse Jackson prepares to speak at the rally.
partment of Music.”
Of the banner, Hoffman said, “We made [it] 
originally to represent the members of the music 
department because a lot of people were unable to 
go because of The Marriage of Figaro. But then... 
we decided we were getting such great support 
that we opened it to everyone.”
The pair went to Morewood Gardens, its 
mailroom, and Kiltie Court to obtain signatures
from students and staff.
“One of the most interesting aspects of it,” said 
Hoffman, “was that most people think everyone 
on this campus is apathetic; yet, whenever we 
asked someone to sign, everybody wanted to know 
exactly what he or she was signing and gave it 
careful consideration ... if they felt they didn’t 
know enough about the situation, they didn’t sign. 
That was really impressive.”
“I think this march is [obviously for peace],” said 
Donnelly, “but it’s also the people saying, ‘Hey 
you, Bush! Hey you, government! I’m not taking 
this lying down. Nothing we do is going to com­
pletely resolve this whole thing. If you’re not sure 
of something and there’s no risk try it but don’t 
risk lives and five billion dollars.”
She also considered how far-reaching this con­
flict will be. “This is going to dictate [military 
actions in the future].. .What a lot of people don’t 
realize is that the soldiers over there are going to 
rejoin our peer group,” she said.
“This is our future and I don’t wanna fuck it up,” 
said Hoffman.
For H&SS sophomore Robert Lee, the march 
was a very emotional experience. “A friend of 
mine is about to go to Kuwait,” he said.
“I felt sad when he wrote and said that he was 
going to go over. I wanted to help him, and I 
Please see PROTEST, page 5
19 EESO MrU8R PiCar,gM
By MATT ADLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Thanks to a Pennsylvania state 
grant, Doherty Hall 2210 saw the 
installation of a new sound system 
last week, and students attending 
Activities Board or Student Dor­
mitory Council movies should be 
noticing the difference.
The state grant which funded 
the new sound system was given 
to the University for educational 
purposes. A University planning 
commission allocated a portion of 
the money to Instructional Tech­
nology (IT), which chose to reno­
vate the sound system in DH 2210. 
The renovation served two pur­
poses: supporting instruction in 
the lecture hall, and improving 
the sound quality of movies. Se­
nior Chair Joshua Lynn and 
sophomore Assistant Chair Brian 
Papa of AB Tech consulted ven­
dors and investigated systems 
which would best meet both goals.
The resulting sound system is 
composed of two speakers, an 
amp, mixer, sound processor for 
the projectors, parametric equal­
izers for the speakers and two 
additional equalizers.
The two new speakers were
chosen for their even sound cov­
erage. While the system is not in 
stereo, it is designed to distribute 
sound adequately throughout the 
room. Proper stereo sound in 2210 
would require more than two 
speakers and much more fund­
ing.
Previously, the old amplifier 
would “clip” the sound off when 
there was insufficient power. The 
new amplifier is three time more 
powerful than the one it replaces. 
This will provide enough power 
for smooth running. “Now we 
won’t lose the soundtrack in the 
Please see SOUND, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
THIS JUST IN• •I
TUMu ilpgM Mgsagt Cel8M
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Ever a man of mystery, 
President Bush revealed Friday that he has at least 
three different secret plans to deal with the Persian 
Gulf oil slick, the Soviet crackdown in the Baltics, 
arid capital gains.
He will be revealing at least two of them over the 
next few weeks.
At a press conference, Bush was asked if he would 
again include a proposal to cut the capital gains tax 
in his fiscal 1992 budget plan on Feb. 4.
Bush’s response: “Stay tuned.”
Conservative advisers in the administration have 
insisted on a cut in the capital gains tax for months. 
But more moderate advisers, such as Treasury 
Secretary Nicholas Brady, have opposed the move 
because it proved such a political liability in the last 
two rounds of budget negotiations.
The actual answer is, according to officials, that 
a capital gains reduction plan will be included in 
the fiscal 1992 budget. But it is highly unlikely that 
Bush will press very hard for its passage should the 
move encounter resistance on Capitol Hill, which it 
undoubtedly will.
Also at the press conference, Bush teased report­
ers curious about how the U.S. would respond to the 
huge and growing oil slick in the Persian Gulf 
created by the Iraqis.
Bush said that he and advisers have just con­
cluded consultations on a strategy to stop the oil 
slick, already several times larger than the 1989 
Alaska oil spill by the Exxon Valdez, from spread­
ing.
“I’m not going to comment on what it is, but I can 
assure you that every effort will be made.”
Although it is difficult to say what the action 
might be, the only option that has been mentioned 
publicly so far by the White House is the chance 
that the U.S. might bomb or shell the remaining 
Kuwaiti storage facilities.
Slowing up the storage facilities would dry up the 
supply of oil available to drain into the Persian 
Gulf. Fire and explosions, said White House 
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater earlier today, are 
“always an alternative” when trying to get oil flow 
problems under control. But, he added, there might 
be^other options.
On how to deal with the Soviet military crack­
down in Lithuania, Estonia:and Latvia, President
Bush for the first time personally conceded that he 
might delay next month’s summit with Soviet leader 
Mikhail Gorbachev.
Once again, Bush wouldn’t satisfy reporters’ cu­
riosity about whether he wants to delay or even 
cancel the summit to punish Moscow for trying to 
rub out the independence movement in the Baltics. 
But he dangled the idea before reporters as a 
tantalizing possibility if this weekend’s consulta­
tions with Soviet Foreign Minister Alexander 
Bessmyrtnikh aren’t satisfactory.
Bessmyrtnikh meets with Bush today.
“We have some problems, obviously, on the Baltic 
states. We have a lot of common ground still with 
the Soviet Union as a country that has been very 
strongly supportive of all of our objectives in the 
Persian Gulf region,” said Bush. “I look forward to 
meeting with Mr. Bessmyrtnikh, and then I’d be in 
a better position to respond definitively to your 
question.”
The presumption is that Bessmyrtnikh will be 
able to assuage Bush’s concern about the Baltics 
and permit the crucial summit to go forward and 
allow Bush and Gorbachev to finalize a major 
strategic arms limitation treaty and cement coop­
eration in the Persian Gulf.
By leaving so many mysteries hanging in the air, 
Bush reflects a number of facets of his leadership 
style. He prefers to deal secretly, behind closed 
doors, when it comes to superpower politics. But he 
is also using the media as a conduit to manipulate 
the expectations of both his opponents and the 
public.
By holding the cards close to his chest with regard 
to his oil slick strategy, Bush obviously is attending 
to security concerns. But he is also deliberately 
trying to create worries for the Iraqi military 
organization.
By allowing the summit with Gorbachev to be­
come uncertain, he can pursue superpower coop­
eration in the Gulf area while diffusing criticism 
from those many factions that want to punish 
Gorbachev.
And on capital gains, his secrecy allows him to 
appear to say “yes” to all of the factions within his 
own administration, by bowing to his moderate 
advisers while tipping his hat to the conservative 
factions.
3Ue( Fla ilk srMt )dO T
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The 
war against Iraq is only a week 
old, but differences over how 
much it will cost already have 
emerged; estimates range from 
$17 billion to $80 billion.
Projections obviously vary 
with assumptions about how 
long the fighting will last, how 
soon it becomes a ground war 
and the level of intensity. But 
the final tab when the fighting 
ends also will depend heavily 
on how much destroyed mili­
tary equipment needs to be re­
placed. If, the Pentagon doesn’t 
replace such items as F-15 
fighters, which cost about $50 
million each, the final cost could 
be lowered considerably.
Federal Reserve Chairman 
Alan Greenspan estimated the 
cost of the air war at “several 
hundred million” dollars a day 
but “probably under half a bil­
lion a day.”
House Speaker Thomas Foley 
(D.- Wash.) said that currently
“there are no plans” for tax in­
creases.
The administration isn’t offer­
ing its own war-cost estimate.
The Congressional Budget Of­
fice estimates that a war that 
lasted about one month could cost 
$17 billion, but the figure could 
double for a longer conflict.
During the early, intensive air 
war, most of the costs would be for 
computer-guided “smart” weap­
ons, such as the Tomahawk mis­
sile, according to the CBO. In the 
first five days, the U.S. launched 
about 225 Tomahawks, at a total 
cost of about $300 million.
In addition, the costs of fuel, 
repairs, and other items for U.S. 
aircraft are expected to total about 
$10 million daily, analysts say.
The Defense Budget Project 
pegs the cost of the war at $40 
billion to $50 billion for a conflict 
lasting as long as six months. 
Gordon Adams, director of the 
Defense Budget Project, a private, 
non-profit group, says that in the
initial phase of a combined air 
and land war, daily costs would 
be $1 billion but would probably 
drop by half after the first month.
The initial costs during the 
first week of the air war have 
been unexpectedly light. But a 
ground war would involve heavy 
material costs.
Adams said that in such a war 
the U.S. could take “extensive 
losses” of Apache helicopters 
which cost about $11 million 
each. Other equipment losses 
that probably would require re­
placement, Adams says, would 
include tanks and Bradley 
Fighting Vehicle troop carriers.
The Center for Defense Infor­
mation, a longtime Pentagon 
critic, believes that a war of as 
long as six months would cost 
$50 billion to $80 billion. Its 
calculation is based on such 
major items as munitions, troop 
costs and transportation costs, 
which, it says will average about 
$500 million a day.
FBI eyes U.S. terrorist activity
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Bureau of 
Investigations said today it has identified elements of 
international terrorist organizations in this countiy, 
but FBI Director William S. Sessions said Americans 
should “go about our business” as usual.
Sessions stressed that the threat of international 
attacks on this country was low despite the outbreak 
of war in the Persian Gulf.
"The bureau feels it is very much in control of the 
counter-terrorism program,” Sessions told the mid­
winter meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. “I 
think we ought to go about our business.”
But one of Sessions’ top aides said the FBI had 
identified what he called the infrastructures of sev­
eral international terrorist organizations in this
country.
William Baker, head of the FBI’s criminal in­
vestigations division, said supporters of several 
international terrorist organizations were present
in this country.
He listed those organizations as the Abu Nidal 
organization, Hezbollah, the Palestine Libera­
tion Front, and the Democratic Front for the 
Liberation of Palestine.
“All of these organizations have the capability 
of having contact from abroad and could carry out 
activity in our country,” Baker said.
Despite this, Baker said, “We continue to see a 
rather low level of activity within the United 
States.”
CBO says deficit could be $300 billion
WASHINGTON (DJ) — In a 
report to be released next week, 
the Congressional BudgetOffice 
(CBO) is expected to project that 
the fiscal 1991 budget deficit 
will grow to about $300 billion.
In December, the non-parti- 
san budget office said the defi­
cit for the current fiscal year 
would be $253 billion. CBO 
Director Robert Reischauer now 
says the weak economy, coupled 
with further demands on the 
federal deposit insurance sys­
tem, will add almost $50 billion
to the deficit.
“The picture is very bleak in the 
short run,” Reischauer said. “We 
are going to have two years of 
record deficits."
For fiscal 1992, the deficit is 
expected to remain around $300 
billion, counting both losses in 
the deposit insurance system and 
the Social Security surplus, con­
gressional sources said.
The fiscal 1990 deficit was $220 
billion, just short of the 1986 
record of $221.1 billion. A CBO 
analyst cautioned that the latest
estimate will almost certainly be 
revised, perhaps February, when 
the Bush administration requests 
an emergency appropriation for 
Operation Desert Storm.
CBO has estimated the fiscal
1991 cost of Desert Storm will 
range from $17 billion to $35 bil­
lion, depending on how long the 
conflict lasts.
The Senate is expected to vote 
next week on a resolution that 
would suspend the enforcement 
mechanisms in last year’s deficit- 
reduction law.
Under last year’s budget-cut- 
ting law, Senate consideration 
of the measure was triggered 
this week when the CBO re­
ported that the economy is in a 
recession.
“If after biting the fiscal bul­
let last fall, the Congress spits 
it, there would be an adverse 
reaction,” said Reischauer.
Stickingwiththis agreement, 
promises to pull the deficit be­
low $100 billion, or less than 1 
percent of the GNP, by 1995, 
Reischauer said.
Oil spill tops Valdez
NEW YORK (DJ) — Pentagon 
spokesman Pete Williams said the
oil the Iraqis have pumped into 
the Persian Gulf from Kuwait’s 
Sea Island terminal has created 
an oil spill a dozen times larger 
than the one caused by the Exxon 
Valdez in Alaska.
Millions of barrels of oil were in 
the water with no indication that 
the spigots had been turned off, 
said Williams.
The Iraqi ploy is “environmen­
tal terrorism” with no military 
value, Williams said.
U.S. Army Lt. Gen. Thomas
Kelly also spoke, echoing com­
ments by the President calling 
the oil spill similar to the Scud 
missile attacks on Israel as ex­
amples of international terrorism 
with no military purpose.
Kelly said the oil slick wouldn’t 
hurt possible U.S. Marine land­
ings in Kuwait. The possibility of 
an oil slick had been considered 
in pre-war Allied planning, Kelly 
asserted.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.
b9v wfAHb9 qhhAqc
Chiropractic Screening
Dr. Eric Segal
Vision & Hearing Tests
Electrocardiograms (EKG)
Blood Pressure Testing
Body Fat Testing
Podiatry Screening
Dr. L. J. Baylis
Information on Breast Care
Tuesday, February 12
11 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Skibo Ballroom & Gray Matter
1gir8MtaltPr8M zPee P8seURg 
Tg8su ’ytgC- qgarnPsM. 
Llaltg. Tleearri 1l8sP8o 
l8R FgPout qgarnPsM5
HgCagMg8tltP,gM (ari 9gletu 
HgMglasu yga,PsgM wrU8G
RltPr8 ’9Hyw-. hPpg. DeUn 
f8g. bug Dlnga DeUn. 
FgPout FltsugaM l8R vlMt 
v8R DrYfC zPee Car,PRg sUaG
ag8t P8(railtPr8 l8R (agg oP,gG
lzlkM5
5-Iminute Sports Massage
Cholesterol Testing ($3 lee)
and much, much more
Get fit for the ’90s. Take the first step towards a healthier you!yCr8MragR nk ytURg8t qstP,PtPgM wgg l8R tug qtuegtPs 1gClatig8t5
i)

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 19913
Pledge of leadership.
WrMu waggil82blatl8 ytl(( JurtroalCuga
The Interfraternity Council inducts its officers for the Spring semester. From left to right, the inductees 
include: Adam Marlin, DU; Shaun Hong, KDR; Steve Reinhard, SAE; Colin Crehan, Phi Kap; Matt Ireland, 
SAE, Jon Pollack, SAE; Dylan Newlander, KDR. Last year’s president, John Ginsburg ran the ceremony.
JarnegiM CeloUg vMsrat
Campus tragedy ruled suicide
TRAGEDY, from page 1
assistant professor of psychiatry 
at Western Psychiatric Institute, 
said that they would not normally 
be used at the same time.
Desipramine, Friedman said, is 
created when the body breaks 
down Imipramine. He speculated 
that the Desipramine got into 
Ross’ body through this mecha­
nism; however, it is also possible 
that Ross got it from an old pre­
scription he had.
The third drug found in Ross’ 
body was Doxylamine, a prescrip­
tion antihistamine type sleeping 
aid, according to Friedman.
Sleep disorders are a common
side effect of depression and some 
patients still require the help of 
sleeping aids, he said.
Overdoses of anti-depressants 
can lead to stupor, coma, impaired 
cardiac conduction, depressed 
respiration, and eventually death, 
according to Friedman.
Alcohol and combinations of 
drugs can increase the effects, he 
said, and particularly, neither 
Desipramine nor Imipramine 
should be combined with alcohol.
O’Keeffe found Ross’ body in 
Ross’ room in the early morning 
of October 24, 1990. “We’re not 
really sure what happened,” 
O’Keeffe said.
Ross was reportedly seen alive 
on the evening of October 21 and 
possibly as late as the morning of 
October 22, O’Keeffe said.
O’Keeffe did not know of any 
traumatic event in Ross’ life which 
might have pushed him towards 
suicide. Ross took a year off from 
school in 1987 and O’Keeffe said 
that people who knew Ross before 
that time were aware of his de­
pression. However, “Most of us 
thought he was pretty much over 
it now,” O’Keeffe said.
The brothers of Sigma Nu are 
considering holding a fund raiser 
in memory of Ross. Details have 
yet to be drawn up.
ESCORT, from page 1
like most garages who can just call up for parts 
when they need them,” says Ricci. “They have to go 
through a purchase order requisition which can 
easily take three days to get a part that any mechanic 
can get in a half-hour.”
Holtgraver sees another side to the problem. 
“Whenever they do vehicle maintainance they never 
do it right, or they come up with 30,000 other 
excuses on why they can’t do it right away,” he says.
“I don’t accuse them of not knowing what they’re 
doing,” Holtgraver adds. “They don’t have the 
equipment and also they aren’t running the facility 
like they should.”
This is not new to Holtgraver. About three years 
ago, even before the recent budgetary problems, he 
says, “I was driving a bus at 35 miles per hour down 
Forbes, and the steering wheel popped off.” 
Everything turned out all right, but says 
Holtgraver, “When people don’t fix things properly, 
that’s what happens.” However, he laments, “...ad­
ministration concentrated on the possibility of 
sabotage or something I did wrong while driving.” 
In addition, he points to the van he is driving for 
the night: “This vehicle was in an accident at the 
end of last year and sat around all summer without 
being worked on. Then when the semester started, 
we had to do without it for three weeks while they 
fixed it.”
David Wessell, grounds foreman of Physical Plant, 
couldn’t be reached over the weekend for comment.
Despite all the problems, Escort Service has tried 
to compensate for the delays caused by break­
downs. “The personnel are great,” says Ricci. “They 
do above and beyond the regular call of duty. Both 
the students and the full-time drivers take their 
jobs very seriously.”
The only solution he sees to the problems consists 
of, “getting a combination of new vehicles, better
vJeW^Ï^ ^ne.r'eSV oÆ Wfen !
ore- 
runs. Efxpecf-
^ ' ' ' _____ ¦ -
n\ cor»fk‘n "k
^ IS
,Escort Service employees fed up with the condition 
of their vehicles put this sign outside of their office.
equipment, and rapid parts acquisition for our 
garage.” But, says Ricci, they have been asking for 
those things for quite a while.
There is hope, however. For one, points out Ricci, 
the voice of the students can be very powerful. “A 
lot of times the student body can get things accom­
plished that we can’t.” He refers hopefully to a 
petition complaining to administration which 
started at the Escort office in Skibo. Started on 
Friday at 4 pm, the petition had 60 names by 1 am.
One solution currently under consideration is the 
possibility of securing alumni donations for new 
vehicles. “I have heard some prominent alumni' 
have been looking into it,” says Ricci. However, his' 
faith still lies with the voice of the students.
State grant re-equips DH2210; new sound system installed
SOUND, from page 1
noise,” said Lynn.
The sound processor is a com­
pressor/limiter, which will pre­
vent overdriving the amplifier. 
This was a problem because the 
projectors sent amplified output 
into unamplified inputs, which 
was not something the system 
was meant to handle.
The old system was slowly 
burning itself out.
Each of the two new equalizers
have been specially calibrated for 
their functions—one equalizer is 
for use during lectures and the 
other is set for movies. Sound 
quality will now be controlled from 
the projection room.
In general the new system is 
designed for much easier use by 
the lecturers and projectionists. 
In the past, should the projection­
ist have left the system prepared 
to broadcast sound from the pro­
jectors, a lecturer would not be
able to control the system from 
the controls at the front of the 
room.
This new system, however, is 
also designed to avoid that prob­
lem. The dual purposes of the 
system will no longer conflict. “We 
made the system idiot-proof as 
much as possible,” remarked 
Lynn.
The new system is capable of 
handling lectures, video and au­
dio tape playback, and movie pro­
jectors. Lynn said, “This is not a 
minimal system. There is still 
room for expansion.”
The total price for the new sys­
tem was under $6000.
Funding for a new sound sys­
tem was, originally, to come from 
the Graduate Student Organiza­
tion (GSO).
Fortunately, IT was given 
money from the state, so the GSO 
funds may be put toward re­
placement projectors.
Replacing the projectors is cur­
rently AB’s new project. The cost 
for new projectors is estimated to 
be between $15,000 and $20,000.
“We’ve known about the prob­
lems of the old system for a long 
time,” said Lynn. “I don’t know 
how it got there, but it definitely 
wasn’t the right decision.”
The old sound system was de­
signed only for speech and did not 
have the frequency response re­
quired by a movie soundtrack.
The projectors are 16mm and 
use an optical sound track. As . 
Lynn explained, “The optical 
soundtrack is prone to hiss and . 
noise. We would try to remove ar 
lot of that with the equalizers, but ri 
this is not a perfect method. Due - • 
to the nature of an optical sound­
track we could only go so far.” 
“From now on,” said Lynn, “if i{-v'*, 
doesn’t sound good in DH 2210, it1 
won’t be because of the sound'. 
system.”
Student Senate Minutes
Minutes of January 22, 1991 
Meeting called to order at 8 pm. 
Senators Present: Austin (MCS) 
late), Barnes (H&SS) (late), Blake (CFA), 
)autermann (CIT), Gelman (MCS), 
domis (GSIA), Moran (CIT), Neighbor 
1CFA), Shin (H&SS), Wyatt (CIT) (late). 
Senators Absent: Bucholtz (CFA), 
Meek (H&SS).
Ex-Officios Present: Ginsburg 
(Greek Council), MacDonald (SDC), Dean 
Murphy (late), Rao (President) (late), 
Smith (AB) (late), Dean Witchner (late). 
Ex-Officios Absent: Chambliss 
member-at-large), McRae (member-at-
Activities Board — Chris Smith:
New sound system installed. Ready by 
Thursday. Chair elections on the elev­
enth. There will be an ad to apply for any 
position on AB.
Student Affairs — Dean Witchner: 
Freshman orientation applications are 
in the Student Affairs office. They are 
due by the end of the week. There is a 
leadership program on February 2. Sup­
port groups are being formed for the 
Middle East crisis. More counselorshave 
been hired part time. Programs will be 
held to show different perspectives and 
to talk openly and share feelings. Dis­
cussion about security for events. Stu­
dent Affairs might be able to help out.
President — Kishore Rao: CFA 
Group headed by Lisa Mathis and Chris 
Neighbor working with Lowry Burgess 
to discuss concerns about the Perform­
ing Arts Center. Fifth year free is in the 
hands of Mike Murphy. He will have a 
report within the next few weeks.
Treasurer — Position Vacant.
Student Senate Chair — Chris 
Neighbor: Budget packets will be in our 
hands on April 3 and voting on those 
packets will happen April 10. Student 
Affairs programs are beginning on 
January 26 with a trip to Buhl Science 
Center. It is possible to buy a new com­
puter with out straining our budget. Keep 
in mind $5000 of $16,000 goes to Home­
coming so that we have $11,000 for the 
rest of the semester. The computer would 
be a Mac Ilex. It was accepted by friendly 
consensus to buy the computer.
Request for Non-funded Recogni­
tion: Students for Peace. There are 
seventy-five students are interested. 
They will supply information to the 
campus community and will continue as 
a group past the Middle East crisis. Vote: 
8-0-1. Accepted.
Resolution: Peace in the Middle East. 
Discussion: Student Senate shouldn’t get 
involved with politics. We make resolu­
tions all the time. No reason not to pass 
it. We shouldn’t take a stance either way 
for it would cause too much controversy. 
If we do vote, perhaps students will 
recognize us. Vote: 2-6-1. Failed.
Resolution: Senate does not advocate 
the use of violence. Discussion: Vote to 
consider the resolution. Vote: 6-2-1. 
Motion not considered.
General Discussion:
Petitions for elections due last Mon­
day at 5:00. All candidates from last 
election still running. Thanks to Hyun 
Shin and others for participating in the 
Martin Luther King Celebration. 
Meeting adjourned at 8:43.
CMU 
GRADUTE STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION
presents 
HAPPY HOUR
at
PANTHER HOLLOW INN
$2.00 PITCHERS (DOMESTICS ONLY) 
FREE PIZZA
WEDNESDAY 
JANUARY 30,1991 
6 TO 8 pm
PLEASE BRING YOUR CMU GRADUATE 
STUDENT ID AND PROOF OF AGE
You are cordially invited to the:
HIGH TECHNOLOGY 
JOB FAIR
It is a unique opportunity to talk with 
recruiters from the leading Pittsburgh High 
Technology employers in the following 
fields:
• ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
• CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
• CHEMISTRY
• COMPUTER ENGINEERING
• ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
• MARKETING/SALES MANAGEMENT
MATHEMATICS 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
PHYSICS
ROBOTICS ENGINEERING 
SOFTWARE/HARDWARE ENGINEERING 
TECHNICAL WRITING
Tuesday, January 29,1991 
10 am - 3:30 pm 
Skibo Ballroom
Sponsored by the Pittsburgh High 
Technology Council and Carnegie Mellon 
Career Center
C"IC
-A

---------------------------------------------------

A SEASONAL TRADITION FROM WINDHAM HILL
THE WINTER 
SOLSTICE CONCERTS
NIGHTNOISE 
LIZ STORY 
PHILIP AABERG
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14 
7:30 P. M.
TICKETS: $5 WITH CMU ID
$15 ALL OTHERS
AVAILABLE AT:
KAUFMANNS, NATIONAL RECORD MART,
SYRIA MOSQUE AND THE 
CARNEGIE MELLON INFORMATION DESK
PRESENTED BY THE CARNEGIE MELLON ACTIVITIES BOARD
% *>

---------------------------------------------------

Crime and Incident Report
mPsulge T. HrMg2blatl8 Dr8taPnUtP8o vRPtra
Reaction and Remembrance...
This tree outside of Doherty Hall was decorated last week to mark 
the 19th anniversary of the Roe vs. Wade decision to legalize 
abortion. The plastic bags on the tree were each labeled “fetus.'-
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
PITTSBURGH HORIZONS is a new program, created by Student Affairs, that provides students, faculty and staff an 
opportunity to enjoy some of Pittsburgh’s finest cultural and social events without the high cost. That’s right...the 
Office of Student Affairs will subsidize the cost of most events and also provide transportation. In addition, almost 
every event will have a reception beforehand. There will be approximately twelve activities planned for this semester. 
Look for posters and flyers with more information!
1/19 ALARM, 7:12 pm. A complainant 
called campus security and reported that 
an alarm was going off in Skibo. Campus 
security responded to find no alarm go­
ing off, however upon further investiga­
tion, they discovered that a pull station 
was not working properly. Maintenance 
was called.
1/19 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT, 4:41 
pm. A Carnegie Mellon security officer 
discovered that persons unknown had 
attempted to gain entry into Hamburg 
Hall A-50. The officer found a 6" x 4" hole 
in the plasterboard frame surrounding 
the door. The room was dead-bolted and 
no entry could be made without a key. 
There were pieces of plasterboard on the 
floor below the hole. The room contained 
a cash register, food items, and a variety 
of condiments.
1/20 SUSPICIOUS PACKAGE, 8:30 
am. While on routine patrol a Carnegie 
Mellon security officer noticed a garbage 
bag on the ledge of Margaret Morrison 
Apartment 132. Because of the proxim­
ity to MMA 131, a Jewish special inter­
est house, and a request by Rabbi 
Levine to pay special attention to The 
Hillel. Pittsburgh Police Special Opera­
tions was called. SOD officers responded 
and examined the bag, which contained 
a new one-gallon gas can which was 
approximately 3/4 full. The package was 
placed into caged storage at Physical 
Plant. The scene was declared cleared by 
SOD and CMU personnel at 8:59.
1/20 THEFT, 2 pm. A Carnegie Mellon 
student reported the theft of this moun­
tain bicycle from a bike rack at the rear 
of 101 Tech Street. The bike is white 
Giant brand. It is valued at $700. The 
bike was locked with a Kryptonit6 cable 
lock system.
1/20 VEHICLE THEFT, 5:30 pm. A 
Carnegie Mellon student said that be­
tween 5:30 and 8:45 pm persons un­
known took his 1984 red Porsche 911. 
The student stated that there had been a 
Club theft prevention device on the 
steering wheel when he left the car.
1/21 THEFT, 12:21 pm. A Carnegie 
Mellon student reported the theft of her 
long length coat at a fraternity house 
between 11 pm and 2 am. The coat is 
valued at $25. The victim was concerned 
about the set of keys that were in a 
pocket.
1/22 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 2:19 
pm. The complainant called and said 
that a neatly dressed man came into his 
office and said that he was there to audit 
the renovations. The person left after a 
few minutes. He was reportedly seen in 
the area 45 minutes later by a different 
person.
1/22 THEFT, 10:30 am. A Carnegie 
Mellon faculty member reported that 
during classes in the physics lab a beige 
push-button phone was removed from 
the lab. The complainant reported that 
the phone was present and ringing dur­
ing the morning classes.
1/23 THEFT, 2:57 pm. Sometime over 
the winter break, several drawings were 
removed from the desk of a faculty mem­
ber. These drawings are described as 
follows: six 2x5' drawings and sketches 
of a Venus Bus Terminal, two 2'x5' yel­
low trace drawings on transparent pa­
per, and one l'x3' sketch of a swimming 
pool. The value of the drawings is esti­
mated at $300.
1/23 THEFT, 2 pm. The victim re­
ported that while working out in the 
weight room, someone entered his locker 
and removed a maroon eelskin tri-fold 
wallet containing: American Express, 
Visa, Optima, Citibank, Sears, Mac, and 
Versa Teller cards, a California driver’s 
license, Carnegie Mellon University ID, 
Blockbuster Video card, and $460.
1/24 THEFT, 10:57 am. A Carnegie 
Mellon student reported the theft of sev­
eral items from his locker in the base­
ment of the College of Fine Arts building. 
Weightlifting gloves, a red notebook, and 
a red disk box were stolen. The items 
were valued at $58. The padlock was 
found cut and lying on the floor near the 
victim’s locker.
1/24 MEDICAL, 12:03 am. A Carn-! 
egie Mellon student stated that she was ! 
working on an art project when she cut • 
her index finger with an x-acto knife. • 
The student was transported to Presby- i 
terian Hospital.
1/24 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, • 
5:17 pm. A Carnegie Mellon student!; 
reported thathe was struck by two water ¡; 
balloons dropped from the 3rd or 4th •; 
floor of the northeast stairwell of 
Morewood E-tower. The balloons con-|; 
tained a mixture of mud and water and;, 
soiled the student’s bridge coat and hat. ¡'
1/24 MEDICAL, 5:30 pm. A Carnegie!! 
Mellon student stated that while at-I; 
tempting to adjust the sit-up bench in!; 
the gymnasium weight room, the bench ¡1 
slipped pinning her left thumb between ¡1 
the bench and the bracket. The student’s |! 
thumb was swollen, discolored, and|! 
slightly bleeding. The student wasj! 
transported by Carnegie Mellon Security !• 
to Presbyterian Hospital.
PROTEST, from page 1
cancelled my other plans for the 
day to go to the march,” he said. “I 
thought the march was success­
ful. People were enthused; I was 
getting into it, I was yelling the 
chants.”
As the marchers passed the 
White House, they met with a 
human shield of nearly two hun­
dred police officers on the side- 
walk. Each officer was holding a 
hilly club and tear gas. “I wanted 
to hit one of those cops,” said Lee. 
«1 wanted to get beyond that bar­
rier, to touch [the White House] 
fence. They were lined up, 
smirking at us, laughing at us, 
calling us ‘Communists.’ They 
shouldn’t be protecting President 
Bush, they should be protecting 
us.”
As the march began, players of
the Bread and Puppet Theater 
from Glover, Vermont, led a pro­
cession with larger than life-size 
marionettes depicting protest 
scenes and war scenes complete 
with Death carrying dead bodies.
Greenpeace followed with a pa­
rade balloon in the image of a 
globe. ‘This is great,” said on­
looker Jennifer Sage, an actress 
and teacher at Long Island Uni­
versity in Brooklyn. “I’m so im­
pressed with the march. It’s mas­
sive, and it’s inspiring ... and in 
these times, we need inspiration.”
Once at The Ellipse, there was 
a rally for peace. There, Jackson 
opened his speech with a prayer 
for the troops.
“They are our sons and daugh­
ters, our husbands and wives ... 
who are following guided missiles 
and misguided leadership,” he
told the crowd.
Jackson called for President 
Bush to reconsider the U.S.’s po­
sition in the matter. “We urge the 
president to think of the fragility 
and limitations of these actions. 
This war is costing us a billion 
dollars a day. Each day, that’s a 
school we didn’t build, a road we 
didn’t pave, a million children we 
didn’t feed. That money must be 
reinvested in America,” he said.
“Violence begets violence,” he 
said in his conclusion, “an eye for 
an eye, a tooth for a tooth will 
leave us blind, ugly, disfigured,
and dead.”
Students from other area col­
leges were present. Tina 
Tuminella, a Penn Hills resident 
and freshman at Indiana Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania, and her 
friends went with the intent to 
inform themselves and to experi­
ence first-hand a protest of this 
magnitude.
Frustrated with the television 
coverage, Tuminella said, “We’re 
not protesting the war ... once 
[the troops] are there, we have to 
support them. Basically, we’re 
here to educate ourselves.”
Correction...
In issue 12, the Dance Marathon was incorrectly attributed to 
Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa Alpha Theta. The marathon was 
sponsored by Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Thousands gather for D.C. peace rally
Here is a list of activities already planned for your enjoyment:
Wed. Feb. 6 INTERNATIONAL POETRY FORUM
The Chanty Randall Citations with Charles Clausley and Lucille Clifton 
$3.00/person
Sat. Feb. 9 RIVER CITY BRASS BAND
“Latin Carnival”
$5.00/person
Fri. Feb. 15 PITTSBURGH BALLET THEATRE
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
$9.00/person
Sat. Feb. 23 FALLING WATER TOUR
Designed by Frank LloydWright in 1936.
$10.00/person
i

---------------------------------------------------

Escort Service needs a tune-up
Any student who boards a CMU 
Escort Service van or bus these 
days is placing his or her trust in 
a vehicle that may break down at 
any moment,
A day doesn’t pass without some 
Escort vehicle experiencing a 
problem, according to Escort Ser­
vice Supervisor and CMU Police 
Sergeant William Ricci. Indeed, 
the 900 students per day on aver­
age who do rely on the service to 
shuttle them to and from campus 
are trusting their safety to ex­
tremely temperamental and dan­
gerous vehicles.
The vans and buses currently 
used by the service are literally 
falling apart. Steering wheels pop 
off, and speedometers, gas gauges, 
and horns are broken. In one in­
stance, a driver pulled over to the 
side of the road just before a loose 
wheel fell off the van.
Operating under dangerous 
conditions due to age and exces­
sive mileage, these vehicles are 
clearly unfit to transport students 
safely.
The Escort Service owns four 
vehicles. Of them, the two buses 
are 10 and six years old, and the 
two vans are six and three years 
old. Over the years, the buses have 
traveled in excess of 140,000 and 
160,000 miles.
When a 3-year-old van requires 
significant repairs on a regular 
basis, it is obvious that a system of 
preventative maintenance is not 
established.
Since repairs are necessary so 
often, usually only one van oper­
ates at a time, resulting in over­
crowding. So many students walk,
subjecting themselves to the un­
pleasant winter weather and po­
tential violent crime, especially 
late at night.
No matter which option they 
choose — taking the Escort Ser­
vice or walking — students are 
placed in a dangerous position — 
somewhere they shouldn’t have to 
be.
The Escort Service is designed 
to deliver students to and from 
campus safely, and right now, it 
isn’t living up to that promise. 
That’s the problem.
The solution is just as clear: Buy 
new vehicles.
Ricci says that budget restraints 
prevent the University from pur­
chasing new ones. That argument 
is unacceptable. You don’t skimp 
on safety. The money is some­
where. Find it, and buy safe, de­
pendable vehicles.
Carnegie Mellon should also in­
vest in better equipment and 
means for repairs. Better acces­
sibility to parts and more motiva­
tion over at Physical Plant to make 
repairs a priority would help. But 
repairs aren’t enough — these 
vehicles are too decrepit to return 
to acceptable condition.
Even Ricci admits that the ve­
hicles are “shot.” They must be 
replaced.
And once they are replaced, 
maintenance standards must be 
raised to keep the new vehicles in 
good shape.
The administration must real­
ize the necessity to purchase new 
vehicles before a serious accident 
results from the Escort Service’s 
unsafe conditions.
Minorities need options for future
There’s been a lot of commen­
tary recently on the demographics 
of our armed services because a 
disproportionate number of the 
men and women serving in the 
Gulf War—some estimates reach 
as high as 40 percent — belong to 
minority groups.
Rightfully, many minority lead­
ers and some members of Congress 
are concerned about this situation, 
which indicates that we’re send­
ing our most disadvantaged citi­
zens to do our dirty work.
The problem, of course, stems 
from the way our society works. 
Many enlisted men and women 
are lured into the armed services 
by promises of money for college 
and advertising slogans such as 
“It’s a great place to start.”
But these enticements don’t at­
tract more advantaged men and 
women, who already have money 
for college and the confidence that 
the white-collar world will make 
places for them when they gradu­
ate.
Certainly in peacetime — and 
maybe even during a war — the 
military isn’t a bad deal. It pro­
vides a sense of belonging, disci­
pline, valuable leadership train- 
!¦ ing, fulfillment, and much needed 
j money for those who want to serve 
r‘ our country.
However, we join minority lead­
ers in decrying a system where 
the armed services are the only 
decent option for many 18-year- 
olds who need money andjob skills.
Proposals to solve the problem, 
when they exist, are varied. One 
idea that has garnered some at­
tention on Capitol Hill recently 
comes from Senator Sam Nunn 
(D-Ga.), the chair of the Senate’s 
Armed Services Committee, who 
suggests a return to the draft to
eliminate the inequities in the 
current system.
We disagree with Nunn —- re- 
turning to conscription can only 
make a bad situation worse. The 
way things are now certainly isn’t 
fair, but you don’t help anyone by 
replacing volunteers who joined 
the military to better their lives 
with people who would only be 
hurt by forced military service
A better solution entails looking 
at the roots of the problem, like 
providing more options to the 
people who are signing up for 
military service.
One way to solve the inequities 
in the all-volunteer force is to dra­
matically increase the number of 
need-based college scholarships 
that are offered by the federal 
government.
And because increased aid 
doesn’t do any good if the people 
it’s designed to help don’t know 
about it, the aid should be accom­
panied by an advertising cam­
paign to let young people know it’s 
available.
We recommend a bill along the 
lines of the Gramm-Rudman- 
Hollings Deficit Reduction Act 
that fixes need-based scholarships 
as a percentage of the total Penta­
gon personnel budget and, at the 
same time, ties advertising for 
those scholarships to the 
Pentagon’s “Be all you can be” 
advertising budget.
Such a bill to redress inequities 
in the system would undoubtedly 
be expensive, but, to use a worn- 
out cliché, it would be an invest­
ment in our country’s future.
Furthermore, it would tie social 
aid to military spending — a leg­
islative foil to those who say we 
should cut the former to augment 
the latter.
Triey Tri iHroiftpL£ re yHoft ep 0 zg7 of wts w$Ntrob£.
A/fiMll
1gl8 r( yAJq iUMt ng agir,gR
Editor:
The dean of our 
school, Dean Blum- 
stein of the School of L,Gtt6r to 
Urban and Public Af- 
fairs (SUPA), is up for ttle Edlt0r 
reappointment this year. We, as stu­
dents, being justifiably concerned about 
the destiny of our school, set out to learn 
about Carnegie Mellon University’s re­
appointment process. Below is what we 
have learned so far.
To begin, an assessment committee, 
consisting of University faculty mem­
bers, has been appointed by the provost 
of the.University. The assessment com­
mittee is charged with documenting and 
evaluating the progress of SUPA under 
the leadership of Dean Blumstein in ar­
eas such as:
• faculty recruitment and retention
• student recruitment and enrollments
•enhancement of the quality and di­
versity of the student body
•the quality of the education and re­
search programs 
•the financial stability of the school or 
college
• the gênerai reputation of the school 
or college
To obtain the necessary information to 
evaluate Dean Blumstein on such is­
sues, the assessment committee is sup­
posed to interview the faculty, staff, and 
student representatives of SUPA and 
also other members of the university 
community who are familiar with the 
dean’s work.
While the assessment committee’s 
evaluation is not the only determinant in 
the reappointment decision, the evalua­
tion of the assessment committee is a 
strong determinant in the reappointment 
of the incumbent. After the evaluation is 
complete, however, the reappointment 
process, as far as we can ascertain, is a 
bit ambiguous as to whom the assess­
ment committee reports to and as to who
exactly makes the final reappointment 
decision — the provost or the president?
Now, inasmuch as the assessment 
committee will act as a team of internal 
auditors in their evaluation of Dean 
Blumstein, it is important that the com­
mittee members meet the standard cri­
teria of independence and objectivity (i.e., 
no conflict of interest or bias exists or 
may reasonably be inferred) set forth for 
internal auditors. In light of these cri­
teria, we feel that the provost of the 
University, Mr. Angel Jordan, was re­
miss in his choice of members to serve on 
this committee and we feel that the of­
ficers of the University are neglecting 
their duties by not taking steps to correct 
this problem. In support of this asser­
tion, we offer the following:
1. Two of the five committee members 
are full-time faculty members at SUPA; 
one of these is an untenured, junior,, 
assistant professor.
Please see SUPA, page 12
Toot the horn of the CMU Jazz Band
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I am writing to rec­
ognize a fine group of 
Carnegie Mellon stu­
dents who may have 
been overlooked in last 
week’s edition of The Tartan.
Last Friday, the women’s and men’s 
basketball teams travelled to Chicago 
for their UAA conference games. The 
CMU Jazz Band also just happened to be 
in Chicago to perform a few concerts in a 
recruiting effort for CMU.
However, the Jazz Band also en­
tertained the crowd during the half- 
times of both basketball games. We 
were impressed with the surprising 
abundance of school spirit shown dur­
ing each game. The bandmembers 
also generously distributed their 
extra Carnegie Mellon pennants to 
us during the men’s game.
In addition to performing during the 
games, the Jazz Band also entertained 
players and local CMU alumni at a spe-
bri hPsureM2blatl8 yg8Pra JurtroalCuga 
Hl8Rk Purcell and the CMU Jazz Tl8R perform at a concert in Oakland last semester.
cial reception held after the men’s game.
We were quite impressed with the CMU 
Jazz Band’s performance and character 
this past weekend, and felt that its mem­
bers deserved special recognition. Your 
time and effort were most appreciated
and provided an added shining example 
of CMU’s growing commitment to excel­
lence. Thank you.
Kelly Sterling and the CMU women’s 
basketball team
Writer shouldn’t deflower Steel Magnolias
Editor:
May I point 
out what I 
hope is a typo |_etter tO
£, ."S'; the Editor
bad writing) from Terri Kasch’s 
review of the play “Steel Mag­
nolias” in last week’s Tartan? I 
quote: “Although this play is 
about the lives and strengths 
of women, that shouldn’t deter 
anyone from seeing it.”
Maybe Kasch should have 
said, “... that shouldn’t deter 
men (or Total Women) from
seeing it.” Are men (and some 
women) really so fragile that 
they can’t sit through a play 
about strong women? Should 
Kasch have said, “Although 
this play has a cast of six in­
teresting, intelligent women 
and (gasp) NO MEN, don’t
worry, guys. A man wrote 
the play, a man directed the 
play, and you WILL SUR­
VIVE two hours of listening 
to women.”
Janet Hardy 
Hunt Library
Torching Kuwaiti oil fields forms burning questions
Editor:
As the war in the 
Gulf rages on and both 
sides continue to pour LGttGT tO 
out propaganda to .. CrlS+rfc,. 
boost the morale of Ine 
their respective troops and citizens, 
people and nations alike remain at odds 
as to whether or not President Bush’s 
decision to attack was the right one. 
While the warmongers are shouting 
“Hoorah!” and the intellectuals “Peace 
now!”, while the press is pointing out 
Scuds and Patriots, and government of­
ficials are speculating, they are all for­
getting some very important details that 
need our immediate attention.
With all the mass hysteria that’s going 
on about possible terrorism on the home 
front, we seem to be giving little thought 
to the very real possibility of an upcom­
ing global disaster. No, I’m not talking 
about a nuclear war (although that is 
always something to worry about), I’m 
talking about the destruction of Kuwait’s 
oil fields. “Who cares if Saddam blows up 
Kuwait’s oil fields,” you say? Well, think 
about this: It takes at least six weeks to 
cap (that is, extinguish) one flaming oil 
well, and Kuwait has over 700 oil wells. 
And given that Iraqi soldiers have planted 
explosives around most of these wells, 
what would happen if those devices were 
set off? Many experts, including Carl 
Sagan, believe it will cause a major envi­
ronmental catastrophe. Paul Crutzen, 
director of Germany’s Max Planck Insti­
tute for Chemistry, believes the detona­
tion of these explosives and subsequent 
conflagration could create “a nuclear- 
winter-like situation.” According to the 
January 21, 1991, issue of Time maga­
zine, Jordanian experts say the wells 
could burn 10 million bbl. of oil a day, 
releasing a vast cloud of black, sooty 
smoke into the stratosphere. Given the 
tremendous amount of oil in the Middle 
East, these wells could continue to burn 
into next year’s growing season, block­
ing off sun to much of the farmland of the 
northern hemisphere. The resulting crop 
damage could lead to world-wide food 
shortage and, possibly, famine. Even 
the most apathetic of souls, like myself, 
should find this a chilling prospect. While 
the threat of nuclear war, terrorism, and 
chemical warfare is foremost in 
everyone’s mind, it seems that the threat 
to our most basic necessity is going un­
noticed.
Thomas P. Markotan 
Junior, Chemistry/Psychology

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 19917
Bush wimps out of minority scholarship decision
Thomas A. Perry
The recent Department of Edu­
cation ruling which sent the so­
iled civil rights leadership into 
frenzy should have become one 
0f the cornerstones of United 
States education policy. The 
department’s ruling only reaf­
firmed what the language of Title 
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 
clearly states: that discrimi­
nation on the basis of race, color 
or national origin is against the 
jaw. Why then would so-called 
minority leaders come out so 
strongly against the application 
of a law which many of them — 
are you listening, Ben Hooks? — 
helped to enact?
The Department of Education 
via Assistant Secretary Williams 
recently declared that the practice 
of awarding race-based scholar­
ships was against public policy. 
Many legal scholars, including 
Derrick Bell of the Harvard Law 
School, have declared that the De­
partment of Education’s ruling 
could easily have withstood judi­
cial scrutiny. Similarly, there has
been no outcry from the legal com­
munity attacking the legality of 
Williams’ policy statement. It 
seems that the legal community 
understands the concept of apply­
ing the various laws of our country 
equally to all people, not just to 
specific groups. I would call the 
application of the Civil Rights Act 
of1964 to all Americans as being a 
type of intellectual honesty.
What defines intellectual hon­
esty? It means that one group 
shouldn’t ask for the protection of 
its rights under a law unless it is 
willing to submit itself to the pos­
sible detriments that may occur 
within an equal application of that 
same law. Does it not seem un­
usual then that civil rights lead­
ers such as Benjamin Hooks of 
the NAACP cry foul when one of 
the arguably more important laws 
of our country is simply applied to 
blacks in the same fashion that it 
would apply to whites?
It seems that Dr. Hooks is lead­
ing minority students down a yel­
low brick road of resentment and 
perhaps increased racial hostility 
on the nation’s college campuses. 
This resentment will undoubtedly 
result as a byproduct of the 
President’s decision not to follow 
Mr. Williams’ findings. This re­
sentment and animosity may 
manifest itself in the form of racial 
hostilities on college campuses 
where race relations were some­
what amicable. However, if Hooks 
truly believed in bettering the ra­
cial climate in the United States, 
he could have spoken a thousand 
words simply by uttering nine: “I 
support the ruling of the Depart­
ment of Education.” Yes, uttering 
these nine words may have altered 
the college plans of hundreds, if 
not thousands, of black and other 
minority college students, but it 
would have also sent a message. 
The message sent to millions of 
Americans would have read “blacks 
and other minorities can be intel­
lectually honest even when it 
hurts.” Hooks, however, chose not 
to send this message.
President Bush also failed to 
seize this opportunity to stand up 
for fairness. The result of the 
President’s lack of leadership 
means that for the next four years 
minority students will be able to 
receive scholarship monies for 
which the non-minority popula­
tion on most college campuses 
will not have a chance to compete. 
If I were a non-minority college 
student, I would be madly upset 
at the fact that I did not have the
opportunity to compete for the 
same scholarship that was 
awarded to a minority solely based 
upon race. Do you want to get a 
clearer picture of what non-mi- 
nority students may be feeling? 
Put yourself in the shoes of the 
non-minority college student. 
Your family has realized that it 
cannot afford to continue financ­
ing your education. Imagine 
walking into the financial aid of­
fice at the university that you 
now attend. Upon inquiring about 
financial aid opportunities, you 
are told that the only financial 
aid that remains is designated 
specifically for minority students. 
Wouldn’t you feel a certain 
amount of animosity towards the 
next minority student that you 
came in contact with?
The so-called civil rights leader­
ship regularly issues inflamma­
tory statements detailing how 
public and private actions and 
policies will result in a backlash of 
racism. One should wonder 
whether the so-called civil rights 
leadership has recognized that its 
actions will cause a backlash of 
racism. Many Americans, who 
genuinely want to provide equal 
access to education for all, will stop 
supporting the traditional civil
rights organizations such as the 
NAACP, PUSH, and the Urban 
League.
Civil rights leaders have used 
the Civil Rights Act to protect 
myriad Americans from the “ves­
tiges of racism which pervade this 
country.” However, these leaders 
now feel that minorities should be 
excluded from the class of Ameri­
cans to which the Act applies. 
Benjamin Hooks and others are 
making a mockeiy of the system 
and are certainly diminishing the 
earnest efforts of leaders across 
the country who truly want equal 
rights for all. Many thanks go to 
Ben Hooks and to other so-called 
civil rights leaders for showing 
Americans that we people of color 
don’t want to be judged by the 
content of our character but rather 
by the color of our skin.
Thomas A. Perry is a first-year 
student at the ThurgoodMarshall 
School of Law in Houston, Texas. 
Perry is a graduate of the Univer­
sity of the District of Columbia.
This column is the first in a 
monthly series distributed by the 
Forum Syndicate, a group of mi­
nority student opinion writers cir­
culated from around the countjy.
Free
Speedi
Get the AMT Calling Card and your first call is free.
There’s no better time to speak your mind.
Because now when you get your free AT&T Calling Card, you'll 
get your first 5-minute call fieet
With your AT&T Calling Card, you can call 
i from almost anywhere to anywhere. And you 
can keep your card, even if you move and get 
a new phone number.
Our Calling Card is part of the
NW5S yyy VS& ePeP
0Sd NSS KKN 0B& &
AT&T Student Saver Plus program, a whole package of products and 
services designed to make a student’s budget go farther.
So look for AT&T Calling Card applications on campus.
Or caU us at 1 800 525-7955, Ext. 655.
And let freedom ring.
AT&T. Helping make college life a little easier.
qbIb
The right choice.
0q )N5OO ,leUg (ra l srlMtYtrYsrlMt DleeP8o DlaR slee5 qCCePgM tr sUMtrigaYRPlegR sleeM ilRg RUaP8o tug q$Ib hPout2 
Fggpg8R sleeP8o CgaPrR. SSCi tr dli. yU8Rlk tuarUou buUaMRlk l8R SSCi waPRlk tuarUou KCi yU8Rlk5 :rU ilk agsgP,g 
irag ra egMM sleeP8o tPig RgCg8RP8o r8 zugag l8R zug8 krU slee5 qCCePsltPr8M iUMt ng agsgP,gR nk WU8g NO.S;;S5i
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellon’s Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief...........Katie Culbertson
Managing Editor ....Nicole Brockmann 
Business Manager ....Jason McDonald
News Editor......................Farron W. Levy
Forum Editor.........Daniel de Grandpre
Sports Editor............................Alim Ray
Features Editor.................Allison Durazzl
Diversions Editor..........Stephen Gllcker
Calendar Editor ...Samantha Kossman
Magazine Editor...............Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor.....Jack Sllbert
Dossier Design Editor ....Chris Shields
Art Editor.....................................John Un
Photo Editor.......................Jason DIgman
Production Manager ....Beth A. Moses
Copy Manager....................Heidi Hoover
Asst. Managing Editor.....David Ladek
Asst. Features Editors.....Trupti Patel
Megan Dietz 
Asst. Diversions Editors....Terri Kasch 
Mami Borek
Asst. Magazine Editor ..Azleena Salleh
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Kevin Barney, Dawn 
Bronsonski, William Burky, Grant 
Carmichael, Frank DiVito, Tad 
Dockstader, James B. Endres (Tokyo), 
Dustin Frazier, D.A. Henderson, Jen­
nifer Kerstein, Dexter T. Kobayashi, 
Jonathan Levy, Eric McAnallen, Tho­
mas Nichols, Natalie Peterson, Don 
Pickett, Howdy Pierce, Michael T. Rose, 
William C. Sabram, Ignatius Sasmita
Senior Staff 
Daniel Holland, Waseem Hussain, Javier 
Grillo-Marxuach, Rich Robinson, Mike 
Shapiro, Randy Udavcak
Staffwriters 
Laura Adams, Matt Adier, Suzanne 
Bartlett, Russ Bedel, T.S. Blass, Allan 
Bourdlus, Alison Carter, Andrew 
Cosentino, Lori Demeter, Jill Denevisch, 
Dan Ferrell, Natalie Gesmond, Francis 
M. Goldsberry, Megan Greig, Judy 
Grossman, Sarah Hamilton, Colleen 
Kane, Geetu Khanduja, Georgina Koon, 
Richard Kwiatkowski, Ed Lee, Karen 
Loglisci, Dave Martin, Chin Oh, Shizuka 
Otake, Mark Roces, Charles Sabatos, 
Doug Scott, Lui Sieh, Alan Sloan, Jason 
Lee Smith, Kelly Sterling, Tina Urso, 
Heather Walker, A. Franklin Wheeler, 
Laurie Wilkison, Robert Wyner
Art
Sunita Cherian, Brandon Chin, Eric 
Davis, Ken Flickstein, Damien Miller, 
Jen Nelson, Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, Dave 
Pagani, Pauletta Pan, Naomi Pearson, 
Jason Peltz, Kate Rollenhagen, Cesar 
Sanchez
Comics
Gregg Baimel, And! Briggs, Flint 
Crumpacher, Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, 
Chris Fria, Dan Gallagher, Dave Kapla, 
Andre Khromov, Doug Lamperskl, Neil 
McCarthy, Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, 
RJ. Runas, Charles Sabatos, Mike 
Shapiro, Jack Silbert, Clifford Snider, 
Ray Strobel, K. Michael Thomas, Nick 
Wardigo
Photography/Darkroom 
Jenny Adams, Jason Barshay, Jay Chang, 
David Docktor, Dan Frey, Josh Free­
man, Michael Fuson, Megan Greig, 
Vivek Gupta, Hillary Kahn, Stephen 
Kang, Augustine Kuo, Abe Levine, Doug 
Luce, Sam Mastromatteo, Jessica 
Miller, Guy Paquette, Pauletta Pan, 
Kishor K. Rao, Gwokang Yang
Production/Layout 
Rachel Bourn, Anne Campbell, Jennifer 
Forbes, Stephanie Horwitz, Melissa 
Kingman, Manish Modh, Pankaj S. 
Mody, Rick Quinn, Kishor K. Rao, Derek 
Rubinoff
Copy
Susan Baker, Catherine Bellanca, 
Heather Broud, Lenna Kydes, Daniel 
Martinez, Erika Olson, Christine Rahimi- 
Assa, Chanda Sanders
Business 
Mary Kaye Rodgers
bug blatl8 PM tug MtURg8t 8gzMClCga r( DlaG
8goPg mgeer8 A8P,gaMPtk5 $t PM l zggpek 8gzMG
ClCga CUnePMugR nk MtURg8tM RUaP8o tug (lee 
l8R MCaP8o MgigMtgaM. lt 8r srMt tr igingaM 
r( tug A8P,gaMPtk sriiU8Ptk5 $t PM CaP8tgR nk 
FgMtga8 Jg88Mke,l8Pl JaP8tP8o. $8s5 yUnMsaPCG
tPr8M lag l,lPelneg (ra tug MgigMtga ra lslG
RgiPs kgla5 bug gRPtraPleM lCCglaP8o lt tug 
ngoP88P8o r( tug rCP8Pr8 MgstPr8 lag tug 
r((PsPle rCP8Pr8 r( bug blatl8 gRPtraPle nrlaR5 
DreUi8M lag tug rCP8Pr8M r( P8RP,PRUle lUG
turaM5 cgttgaM tr tug vRPtra lag rCP8Pr8M r( 
lUturaM zur lag UMUleek. nUt 8rt 8gsgMMlaPek. 
igingaM r( tug A8P,gaMPtk sriiU8Ptk5 q egtG
tga P8tg8RgR (ra CUnePsltPr8 iUMt ng MPo8gR 
l8R P8seURg tug zaPtga“M lRRagMM l8R Cur8g 
8Uinga (ra ,gaP(PsltPr85 hligM zPee ng zPtuG
ugeR UCr8 ag'UgMt5 bug blatl8 agMga,gM tug 
aPout tr sr8Rg8Mg ra ag6gst l8k egttga ra sreG
Ui85 DrCkaPout ­ S;;S nk bug blatl85 bug 
blatl8 gRPtraPle nrlaR agMga,gM tug aPout tr 
zPtuureR (ari CUnePsltPr8 l8k srCk Pt RggiM 
U8(Pt (ra CUnePsltPr85
f((Psgx ypPnr KO ’VSE- EjdYESSS
mlPeP8o lRRagMMx bug blatl82Tr0 SB2DligoPg mgeer8
A8P,gaMPtk2JPttMnUaou5 Jq SKESNYNd;O
wU8RgR P8 Clat nk tug qstP,PtPgM wgg5
qee aPoutM agMga,gR5
AnalPk r( Dr8oagMM $yyh 7x Od;OYNSOB5

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
9gag!M tug RrCgx 1aUo zla tlpgM nlsp Mglt tr 3Ue( zla
On January 17, the United 
States — led by President Bush
— started bombing Iraq. Com­
parisons to the Vietnam War have 
been made. Bush insists that “this 
will be no Vietnam.” I think that’s 
good. The United States Govern­
ment decided to go into Vietnam 
slowly, half-assed.
And the results? The govern­
ment did a piss-poor job there, 
and how many people suffered? 
About 58,000Americans died, and 
hundreds of thousands of veterans 
came home to be spit upon. It was 
a bad scene. And that’s why I am 
glad that Bush said this Persian 
Gulf conflict won’t be another 
Vietnam.
That’s right. I called it a conflict, 
because Congress hasn’t declared 
war. They’ve passed a resolution 
that enables the U.S. to use force, 
but they haven’t declared war.
This Is Not an Incinerator 
Kevin Barney
If Bush and the U.S. Congress 
have yet to call this a war, I’d hate 
to see what they do call a war. But 
wait a second. I’ve seen what they 
do call a war. Didn’t they declare 
war on drugs? I seem to remem­
ber something to that effect. Shall 
we compare the war on drugs with 
the Persian Gulf thing that hasn’t 
been called a war yet?
Remember, war usually con­
notes a bad image. So, why does 
progress in the war on drugs seem 
to have bogged down while the 
Persian Gulf thing seems to be 
moving along nicely?
The latest poll I saw had more
than 80 percent of the American 
public supporting the action taken 
by Bush in the Persian Gulf. 
That’s a damn high percentage of 
the American public to agree on 
anything that a President does. 
Ask any American in any state 
whether or not he or she would 
support a plan to get rid of illegal 
drug use and trafficking in this 
country. How many people would 
want an ending to the drug dealers 
conducting shoot-outs, in the 
process killing innocent Ameri­
cans? I would bet on my dog’s life 
that more people would support 
an actual war on drugs than the 
action taken in the Persian Gulf.
Some people say an all-out war 
on drugs would be too costly for 
the government to undertake. 
Let’s talk numbers, shall we?
How much money has the 
United States spent on these two
endeavors? Operation Desert 
Shield had cost an estimated $250 
million per month. Now, during 
Operation Desert Storm, the 
United States has flown more 
than 15,000 missions at a cost of 
more than $100,000 per mission. 
About 478,000 troops stationed 
in Saudi Arabia are ready for 
combat. It has been estimated 
that the United States is now 
spending $600 million per day on 
the Persian Gulf Conflict. A con­
gressman from New York intro­
duced a bill that would pay 
$10,000 to every soldier who 
spends more than a month in the 
Persian Gulf conflict. Can we af­
ford this?
How much money has the 
government spent on the war on 
drugs? Not enough, and certainly 
not near as much as what’s been 
spent in the Persian Gulf. How
many police departments have 
asked for more funding to help 
fight the drug problem in their 
districts? How many mayors 
have asked for funds to start 
social programs to keep kids 
from getting started in the drug 
business?
At the time this column was 
written, the U.S. had listed one 
soldier confirmed dead and 13 
missing in action. But 1990 was 
another record year for murders 
in Washington, D.C. — 483 total, 
more than half of them drug-re­
lated— and that’s only one major 
city. This also leaves out the 
people who die of overdoses or the 
innocent people killed in drug- 
related accidents. We’re talking 
more than 14 people — probably 
closer to 14,000.
Iraq is eight time zones away 
from the East Coast. Every
American city that has more than
10,000 people living in it has ma. 
jor drug dealers. Hell, the person 
next to you as you read this could 
be a drug dealer.
Why does Bush go after the 
Iraqis with gusto when people are 
dying everyday in America? These 
people who die because of drugs 
are potential voters; Iraqis and 
Kuwaitis couldn’t vote if their lives 
depended on it.
Or have I struck the nail right 
on the head?
Don’t get me wrong. We should 
be doing something about Iraq. 
But also we should have done 
something about the drug prob. 
lem which exists right here in 
America long before we started 
bombing Iraq.
Kevin Barney is a senior pro­
fessional writing major.
To support troops, one must support war
The Archer's Quiver
Allan Bourdius
President Bush has declared that the 
war in the Middle East will not be another 
Vietnam. Given the current ferocity of our 
onslaught, I think that is obvious. Unfor­
tunately for our country, and for our dedi­
cated soldiers, there is an element in our 
own nation that is working to make this 
another Vietnam: the peace movement.
The peace movement’s primary claim is 
so full of hypocrisy that it makes me sick. 
They say they support U.S. troops in the 
Middle East while saying at the same time 
that the war shouldn’t be fought. Those 
two ideas are totally incompatible.
For nearly 50 years, the primary mis­
sion of our Armed Forces has been to 
deter conflict by the very threat of it. The 
Vietnam War severely damaged the 
policy of deterrence because we were
seen to be a “paper tiger” — a country 
with no will to win. When deterrence 
fails, the military’s mission is to fight 
and win while limiting hostile casual­
ties. Now that we’re fighting, the best 
thing we all can do is to support not only 
our troops, but also their mission, the 
liberation of Kuwait.
How do you think an 18 or 19-year-old 
soldier, sailor, airman, or Marine would 
react to the peace movement’s claim? I 
bet they’d think something like this: 
“Great. The peace movement says they’re 
on my side, yet they say it’s wrong for me 
to fight and win, to do my job.” Public 
attitude is key to the fighting man’s (to 
include women) morale. If he feels the 
public has no will to win, neither will he.
Toward the end of the Vietnam War, 
morale in the ranks was pathetic. The 
soldier knew that he wasn’t appreciated 
back at home. Consequently, he had no 
will to win. He felt his mission was futile. 
I believe very strongly that negative home 
opinion to Vietnam both lengthened our 
involvement and increased the number
of casualties we suffered.
Please don’t get me wrong — I didn’t 
want us to have to fight in the Middle 
East. I believe that it became necessary, 
but I didn’t want it to happen. Opposition 
to the war before the conflict began was 
good and I admire their sincere efforts for 
peace. Now that we are fighting, the fast­
est way we will get peace is by achieving 
the military objective—forcing Iraq out of 
Kuwait. Whether the war is just or if we 
have a rightful place in Middle Eastern 
affairs or not is no'longer an issue. We are 
in a shooting war. That is the only issue. 
War has but one acceptable outcome: vic­
tory at minimum cost.
Now that we’re fighting, the best thing 
we all can do is to unify ourselves behind 
our Armed Forces and behind the war. 
The greater the support we give today, 
the sooner the war will be over, the fewer 
our casualties, and the sooner we can 
bring our young men and women home.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomoi'e ap­
plied history major.
When shooting war ends, real 
fight will begin in earnest
L
O 1» E 11 A T I O N
Lui Seih
While the war against Iraq contin­
ues unabated, very few people have 
doubts about its outcome.
That is, its military outcome.
The American government entered 
the war for political reasons, ostensi­
bly for the purpose of maintaining in­
ternational peace and security — up­
holding UN resolutions and eliminat­
ing the threat posed by Saddam 
Hussein’s government.
Another reason that has been cited 
was economic — protect the oil and 
thus the unhealthy economies of the 
Western world, beset by insecurity and
recession. Whatever the reasons are, 
this war will have profound effects on 
the post-war world, for better and for 
worse.
President Bush, along with many 
other people, has stated that peace and 
security for the world would be best 
served by teaching tyrants like Hussein 
a lesson. However, will peace and secu­
rity be gained?
Obviously, reducing Iraq’s capacity 
Please see IRAQ, page 10
Computer Science Early Masteries & Retakes 
15-12x
will be offered
February 9th & February
10th
Signup Sheets available 
at the tutors’ desk in Wean 5419 
on January 30th
(you can only sign up for ONE session)
To get permission 
for Retakes see Maria/Becky in Wean Hall 
6126 
for Early PlaceOut see your TA
15-127 help sessions will be offered Thursdays 
January 24th, 31st, and February 7th 
5 pm- 6 pm in Wean 5419

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 19919
Students should elect Senators who will answer to them
Jonathan Levy
Can it really be time for an­
other Student Senate election?
It seems like just weeks ago 
that about four percent of us went 
to the polls in front of Doherty to 
confirm the latest slate of 
uncontested candidates.
Of course, those elections were 
declared invalid since Senate — 
jn synch with the student body for 
the first time in recent memory— 
forgot about the elections until 
¡the last minute.
Well then, how about that 
[election in the middle of the se­
mester? I know it was just a ref­
erendum on raising the Activities 
!pee, but it should still count for 
!something.
In fact, it may have been more 
important than a regular Senate 
¡election. After all, Senators come 
land go with no apparent change,
Let me tell you the real reasons they 
don't feel compelled to reveal their 
votes to the people: They have no 
backbones and they think no one will 
ever call them on the issue.
but the referendum gave them 
another $10 a semester from each 
of us to argue over 25<Z at a time.
I have to admit that even for 
someone like myself who will vote 
in any election, no matter how 
trivial or ridiculous, there does 
not seem to be much reason to 
stop at the election table tomor­
row or Wednesday unless one is 
about to trip over it. No one knows 
who is running or, more impor­
tantly, what difference it will 
make if we select Bozo over 
Clarabell or vice versa.
However, I would like to present 
one very good reason why every­
one should vote for the candidates
I have listed to the right. The 
reason has nothing to do with 
preserving democracy, executing 
a right for which people have 
fought and died, or any of the 
other high school civics class ar­
guments people usually use to try 
to get you to vote.
The reason you should vote for 
these candidates is the following. 
It would allow you to do a good 
deed which will qualify you for 
the Boy Scouts’ Hall of Fame — 
annoying a group of people who 
richly deserve it.
That group is made up of those 
Senators and would-be Senators 
who do not think they should have
to answer to the student body for 
their votes.
Senate has a tradition of tak­
ing secret ballot votes when 
holding internal elections, such 
as those for committee chairs. If 
you ask Senators why they do 
things this way, many of them 
will tell you that they need to 
remain on good terms with all 
the candidates.
They claim their colleagues 
will hold grudges into eternity if 
they find out that someone voted 
against them in the election for 
head idiot of the pizza-slicing 
committee.
There may be something to 
that — we all know how petty 
children can be. But let me tell 
you the real reasons these pub­
licly elected officials don’t feel 
compelled to reveal their votes 
to the people who gave them 
those great lines on their 
resumes. They have no back­
bones and they think no one will 
ever call them on the issue.
In general, that is probably a
pretty good bet. The whole thing 
is really more of a slap in the face 
to voters than a critical issue. 
Even in Student Senate elections, 
there are usually better ways to 
select candidates than by the cri­
terion of who is the least lacking 
in political courage.
If you have a real basis for se­
lecting between candidates, go 
ahead and use it.
But if not, give your votes to the 
candidates below who have said 
they will oppose secret elections
in Senate and, if forced by their 
more cowardly colleagues to vote 
by secret ballot, will announce 
their votes in open Senate discus­
sions.
And if you don’t usually vote, in 
Senate elections, make an excep­
tion this time. It will only take a 
minute and it will count as your 
good deed for the day.
Jonathan Levy is a second year 
SUP A master’s student and a 1990 
biology department alumnus.
Candidates who oppose 
Student Senate secret ballots
CFA CIT MCS H&SS
Hrk 9Ul8o 9Uou mrrag q8tur8k 1gHrMM D5 Hrngat DelkRr8
Tg86liP8 bgtt 1leg hgz(PgeR qng HrMg8ngao
GSIA TaPl8 ylpM burilM ytar8o
q8tur8k DuPg8 yltkl8 FlRzul WligM burilM
Could not be reached
vaPp qetil8 ’yDy- / bgaage 1gl8 ’D$b- / Lkal 1raMgk ’D$b- / bltMUuPar 
$pgRl ’9Iyy- / viPek cgr8 ’D$b-
Don’t forget: There exists a world beyond the Saudi Arabian desert
Rich Robinson
Well, there’s a war in the Middle East. 
Like we all don’t know that. As if we 
¡haven’t been assaulted by the media’s 
amazing real time coverage of it. As if, for 
three days, I couldn’t watch The Price Is 
Right because the news was on every 
day, most of it consisting of “Well, gee, 
Ted, nothing much going on here. Let’s
go to Bill on one of those cool big boats.”
Well, life goes on. While most people 
were reading the five articles on the 
front page of the news, each covering the 
war from a different angle, life went on.
The Soviet Union obviously thought 
so. While people were awestruck about 
the war, the U.S.S.R. decided it would be 
a great time to change back to the good 
old Stalin days. Buried on page five of 
one of the Pittsburgh newspapers is an 
article about how the Soviet Union in­
vaded Latvia to kill hopes of indepen­
dence. Soldiers and tanks rolled into
Latvia to “restore order” (that means, 
“restore the communist leader” for you of 
the dumber set).
I mean, yes, the war is a big deal and 
all, but Gorby just pulled a brain fuck on 
us and the world. Oh yeah, perestroika 
and all that while everyone’s watching 
him. Then, bang, he’s persecuting people. 
(Maybe it’s like house cats. After 2000 
years of trying to domesticate them, they 
still have that killer instinct.)
And then, as if the Arabs aren’t al­
ready bothered enough that the major 
Christian nations in the world have large
armed forces in their heartland, the Pope 
has to decree a mission to Christianize 
the world. I mean, this isn’t just his 
regular “go find me more children” type 
of deal. He actually puts out a decree 
stating that the Islams are gaining too 
much ground and we must go convert 
them all.
Real smart, big guy. Contribute more 
to the problems in the world. I could go 
on about all the things everyone has 
missed in the last week. Almost no one 
hears how the civil war in Somalia is still 
going on, even though we have people
trapped in our embassy over there. The 
list goes on and on. And believe it or not, 
if the Persian Gulf war continues for 
much longer, it’ll be the story pushed in- 
on page five.
So people, listen up. Continue on with 
your lives. It’s tough, sure. We are in our 
first big war of our generation. But, hell, 
things may be going on now that could 
shape history more than the war in the 
Persian Gulf. Pay attention. That is all. 
Pay attention.
Rich Robinson is a junior IM major.
Lithuania balks at Soviet oppression
As America engages Iraq in 
the Middle Eastern desert, 
quietly and methodically 
Mikhail Gorbachev has been 
cracking down on his indepen- 
dence-minded Baltic republics. 
News of this disturbing turn of 
events has the potential to 
wreck ‘The New World Order” 
as espoused by both President 
Bush and President Gorbachev. 
While America has its attention 
focused on Iraq, other world 
events must also be given their 
due importance.
Approximately one year ago, 
the Baltic republics of 
Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia 
declared their independence 
from Moscow’s firm control. 
Gorbachev initially used an 
embargo to force the three re­
publics back into the fold with 
promises of serious negotiations 
to air their complaints and pos­
sibly allow their secession. What 
it really achieved was more ma­
neuvering room and time for 
Gorbachev to get the army to 
make them toe Moscow’s line.
As we now try to liberate Ku­
wait from Iraqi domination, re­
member that the Soviet Union 
marched into Lithuania, Esto­
nia, and Latvia in a similar 
conquest. These former coun­
tries never legally conceded to 
Russia their will to be free. In­
stead, they repressed their urge 
m order to stave off brutal force 
until the time was at hand to
reassert their right to exist inde­
pendently.
Last year, dramatic changes 
shook the very tenets of commu­
nism. The Soviet Union began its 
withdrawal to within its own bor­
ders, the Berlin Wall came down, 
the two Germanys reunited, and 
Russia, the birthplace of the 
Communist goal, was facing chaos 
from within. In this context, the 
Baltic republics seized what they 
hoped would be the opportunity 
they had long sought—the chance 
to become nations again.
With the bloody suppression 
going on in the Baltic republics, 
the hope of freedom seems quite 
remote. When news of this change 
of policy became evident, Presi­
dent Bush and Secretary of State 
Baker made stern condemnations 
of these events, but the response 
we show the Soviets must be un­
equivocal. Let no doubt cross 
Gorbachev’s mind that he might 
get away with this brutality.
The most distressing part of 
this situation must be that the 
peoples of Lithuania, Latvia, 
and Estonia have endured fifty 
years of occupation with barely 
a second notice by the United 
States. Now is the time to show 
our support, so long absent, for 
these tiny republics. If we do 
not correct the mistakes made 
in the past, how can we justify 
our current action in the Persian 
Gulf? It seems imperative that 
in both cases, Kuwait and the 
Baltic republics, these brutal­
ized states deserve our support 
and action, if circumstances 
demand.
T.S. Blass is a sophomore IM 
major.
If you have nothing to say, then shut up
Michael T. Rose
Last week, I recommended a 
steady diet of critical thought to 
counteract the effects of media 
brain-drain. Unfortunately, with 
that advice I may have exacer­
bated an American problem that 
is already bad enough.
Imagine this: a man, driving on 
the freeway, places a call on his 
car phone. While he steers with 
his left hand, he holds the phone 
firmly with his right hand. 
Frighteningly, he removes his 
hand from the wheel, at fairly 
regular intervals, to emphasize 
his conversational points with 
gestures—in an empty, speeding 
car.
Or this: two people eat a meal 
together, speaking conversation­
ally, and neither listens to one
word the other says.
We are a nation of noisy, over­
bearing people. Conversation is 
punctuated with vocal exercises 
and somatic outbursts. We sel­
dom listen and we understand 
what we hear even less often.
This American problem is not 
one of poor attention spans. It 
reflects instead our national 
vanity, our senses of self-impor­
tance and individual intellectual 
authority. We tend not to pay 
attention to what other people 
are saying, because we’d rather 
hear ourselves speak.
If this sounds like an unfair 
generalization, my apologies — 
but think of how many times a 
day you have to repeat yourself to 
people who are easily within 
earshot — not because they don’t 
hear, but because they don’t listen.
We’re far and away the worst 
loudmouths on the planet. The 
only people in Europe who are 
persistently more obnoxious than
Americans are either professional' 
entertainers or high on cocaine.' 
(The special case, professional 
entertainers who are themselves 
high on cocaine, can wait for an­
other column.)
Last week, I said to think, to 
join in the discussion regarding 
the war against Iraq. What I forgot 
to say was, “If you think about it 
and realize you don’t have any­
thing to say, then by all means 
keep quiet.” The last thing we 
need now, when comprehension 
and reflection are vital, is to get 
caught up in the sound of our own 
voices.
Michael T. Rose is a senior pro­
fessional writing major.
RESEARCH PAPERS
Sd.KOO er surrMg (ari Y 8Pe MUn6gstM 
faRga Dltlero brRlk zPtu QPMl2mD ra Df1
biffliii^aiBnwg 800-351-0222
$8 DleP(5 ’ESN- VBBYdEEj 
fa5 aUMu yE5OO trx HgMglasu qMMPMtl8sg 
SSNEE $Rlur q,s5 4EOjYyh crM q8ogegM5 Dq ;OOEK 
DUMtri agMglasu l,lPelnegY lee eg,geM
Student Health Service - Spring 1990 Schedule
Mondays8 amto7 pm
Tuesdays8 amto7 pm
Wednesdays9:30 amto7 pm
Thursdays8 amto7 pm
Fridays8 amto5 pm
JltPg8tM zPee ng Mgg8 nk lCCrP8tig8t r8ek5 
FlepYP8 Mga,Psg l,lPelneg (ra igRPsle 
gigaog8sPgM5
CMU student ID required.
All gynecological appointments must be 
made by phone between the hours of:
8:30 am and 10:30 am Mon/Tues/Thurs/Fri 
9:30 am and 11:00 am Wed
THINKING MACHINES CORPORATION
Thinking Machines Corporation is the leader in anew technology 
in high performance computing. We design and manufacture a 
massively-parallel 2500 MIPS/5 GFLOPS supercomputer system.
At the heart of the system is the 64,000 processor Connection 
Machine® developed to handle very large data-intensive problems.
Coupled with our advanced applications software, the Connection 
Machine is a powerful tool utilized in a wide variety of industries 
and research organizations. Our massively-parallel computing 
technology enables us to design and build the fastest computers in 
the world to solve the most difficult and complex problems.
Part of the excitement of Thinking Machines is the exceptional 
quality of the staff one works with and learns from. We have 
computer scientists, physicists, software hackers, mathematicians, 
geophysicists, biologists and mechanical engineers. We are a 
strong and cohesive team with respect for individual styles, talents 
and ideas.
If you are interested in joining a company that has a seriousness of 
purpose and a sense of play, please contact your placement office.
We will be visiting your campus on March 1, 1991.
Thinking Machines Corporation
Cambridge, MA
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
The Connection Machine is a registered trademark 
Machines Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
mlpg 8r iPMtlpgx TUMu MtlatgR zla
Howdy Pierce
With his loudest public state­
ment about how he is not a wimp 
raging in the Middle East, George 
Bush is curiously trying to dodge 
the blame — and the guilt.
“Five months ago, Saddam 
Hussein started this cruel war 
against Kuwait,” Bush told the 
nation on the first night of fight­
ing. “Tonight, the battle has been 
joined.”
Bush’s statement is worth re­
membering. It makes an ironic 
testosterone-charged epitaph for 
those killed, and those still to be 
killed, in George’s War. For we 
nee|d to be perfectly clear on one 
fact: Saddam Hussein didn’t start 
this “cruel war.”
Yes, Saddam Hussein may be a 
megalomaniac dictator. Yes, he 
may be a threat to Bush’s “New 
World Order,” which oddly enough 
seems to be run by the same old 
WASPy men who ran the Cold 
War World. Yes, he may even 
have harmed the world economy, 
thereby decreasing dividends to
every stockholder this side of 
Chevron.
And yes, Saddam Hussein may 
even be guilty of gross human 
rights and ecological violations, 
crimes that are worthy of world­
wide outrage and condemnation 
regardless of who else — The 
United States? Israel? China? The 
Soviet Union? — has committed 
them recently.
But although Saddam may have 
provoked this war, he didn’t start 
it. If nothing else, he wouldn’t 
have invaded Kuwait if he thought 
that act would get him into a war 
with the U.S. The man miscalcu­
lated, but he’s not a total idiot.
No, George Bush started this 
war; Saddam’s just fighting it for 
all he’s worth.
Think of Bush when you next 
see footage from Tel Aviv after a 
Scud attack: torn apartment 
buildings, civilians strapped into 
stretchers, babies wailing because 
their foreheads are bloody with 
either their own or someone else’s 
blood.
To a generation like our own 
that grew up not knowing war, 
the footage looks like the carnage 
caused by an earthquake — but 
George’s “cruel war” is one very
unnatural disaster that could 
have been avoided.
Sanctions, for one, could have 
been made to work. Imagine how 
much diplomatic pressure the 
United States could have brought 
to bear on the world coalition if 
we’d invested one-tenth as much 
effort into diplomacy as we have 
in planning bombing runs.
Because Saddam would clearly 
starve the people of Kuwait and 
his own civilians before his mili­
tary, we could have lifted the 
embargo on food. In addition to 
strengthening world support — 
it’s awfully difficult for most 
counties to get behind starvation 
as a diplomatic weapon — an 
embargo that didn’t include food 
would have hit Saddam where it 
hurt him most: his economy and 
his military.
Remember those babies? Much 
like the twin vapor trails of the 
Challenger disaster, they’re pic­
tures we won’t be able to forget 
soon. For the babies’ sake — and 
for the sake of all the troops on 
both sides who will be casualties 
of this war — Bush could have 
waited to start a war.
Clearly, the babies’ blood is on 
his hands.
Bush and the other hawks say 
the sanctions against Iraq weren’t 
working fast enough. What’s the 
big hurry? There were only two 
reasons to press for a quick “lib­
eration” of Kuwait, and neither 
has anything to do with the Ku­
waiti people or the New World 
Order.
Reason number one is an 
American economy that would, 
over time, move away from oil as 
a primary energy source, forcing 
the oil companies to reinvest some 
of those fourth-quarter profits in 
alternative energy sources. Rea­
son number two is the upcoming
1992 presidential elections — we 
wouldn’t want Bush to go the way 
of Jimmy Carter.
Bad reasons for bloody babies.
Given time, the sanctions may 
have worked. That’s arguable, of 
course — they may have failed 
miserably as well. The point is, 
we have no way of knowing.
But let’s at least be honest about 
where the guilt for this thing 
should lie. It surely isn’t the ba­
bies’ fault.
Howdy Pierce is a senior ma­
joring in mathematics and pro­
fessional writing.
U.S. may win the war but lose the peace
IRAQ, from page 8
to engage in terrorist actions 
would be a major gain.
Yet the battle being fought is 
not to determine when and how 
the allied forces will defeat 
Hussein and his Republican 
Guards, but rather how the world 
will end up afterward.
Beneath the veneer of coopera­
tion and friendliness, there are 
great strains pulling and push­
ing against each country within 
the coalition. There are serious 
rifts between America and its 
allies.
The anger toward two of 
America’s most trustworthy al­
lies, Germany and Japan, will 
create ill will in the post-war pe­
riod.
Germany has also ducked its respon­
sibilities toward international peace 
by stating that participation would 
also violate its constitution.
Japan, which is 70 percent de­
pendent on oil from the Middle 
East, has been conspicuously ab­
sent with aid.
Germany has also ducked its 
responsibilities toward interna­
tional peace by stating that par­
ticipation would violate its consti­
tution.
There is also the uneasiness 
between the coalition’s Arab part-
ners. Syria and Egypt have a great 
deal to gain by Saddam Hussein’s 
defeat.
With this improbable alliance, 
the expectations of both coun­
tries will clash with American 
interests over other issues, such 
as the conflict between the Is­
raelis and the Palestinians.
Even the effect of America’s 
presence on Middle Eastern
governments will be difficult to 
gauge. Hopefully, it will not be 
destabilizing, but the anti- 
Americanism throughout various 
Arab nations has traditionally 
been high because America is seen 
as Israel’s ally, and the problems 
between Jews and Arabs are also 
problems between America and 
Arabs.
It’s paradoxical that one of the 
underlying reasons for entering 
into the war was to insure inter­
national peace and security, but 
the forces behind the coalition 
forces may make this goal diffi­
cult once the bonds of cooperation 
are dissolved.
Lui Sieh is a senior applied 
history major.
Where do we get 
those wonderful toys?
Jason McDonald
It’s about time we had our­
selves a war.
Don’t get me wrong. I’m not 
saying that I like what’s going 
on in the Middle East, but it’s 
about time that we got to see 
just what we’ve been paying our 
Defense Department for. Be­
sides, it gave HBO a great excuse 
to bring Top Gun out of moth­
balls.
Until now, the Defense De­
partment was just this multi- 
billion-dollar black hole in the 
middle of each year’s federal 
budget. Cash went in, but noth­
ing seemed to come out except 
thousand-dollar toilet seats. My 
guess was that our tax dollars 
were funding a top-secret Pen­
tagon project to create a Slinky 
that walks up stairs.
Along came Saddam Hussein, 
and all that changed. The Pen­
tagon has proof that not only 
have they been building weap­
ons, but that they actually work! 
Below are a few of my favorite 
toys from the Bush sandbox.
• The Patriot missile—Every 
member of Raytheon must be on 
their way to the Bahamas right 
now as the high-tech version of 
hitting a rock with another rock 
has almost been a complete suc­
cess. Those who developed the 
Patriot system would have been 
mopping up at the local 
McDonald’s if the first Scuds 
had landed in Saudi Arabia.
As an aside, I’d love to have a 
Patriot battery for home use. If 
a Patriot can get a lock on a 
Scud missile, it’s a safe bet that 
it could keep those damned rac­
coons out of my trash cans. 
However, at $1.1 million a pop, 
I guess they can have that left­
over meatloaf.
•Laser-guided smart bombs
— The footage over the first 
weekend was impressive, to say 
the least. The clincher for me 
was the film of the bomber put­
ting one down the center air 
vent of the Baghdad Defense 
Headquarters. When you take 
into account that the films had 
been slowed down, that sort of 
accuracy is simply incredible. 
Now, if they could only capture 
the carnage in color, we’d really 
be set.
•The Stealth Fighter — I 
knew we had these things for a 
reason. It’s been suggested that 
the Iraqi anti-aircraft batteries 
didn’t even start firing until af­
ter the Stealths dropped their 
bombs and left. However, it 
doesn’t change the fact that it’s 
still a pretty stupid looking 
plane.
• Mapping—The early planes 
carried cameras that allow the 
almost flawless simulation of 
Iraqi terrain. This allows the 
pilots to practice their missions 
on computer before they fly 
them. I’m going to be pretty 
skeptical the next time a pro­
fessor tells me I can’t have a 
cheat sheet for an exam.
•The “Wild Weasel” — An­
other wonderful creation that 
you have to love, if only for the 
name. Take a plane and pack it 
to the gills with radar-jamming 
equipment. A great idea, but 
playing Motley Criie records 
really loud at the Kuwaiti bor­
der would probably accomplish 
the same goal.
All this high-tech stuff is re­
ally nice, but if the United States 
really wants to win this war, I 
have a much easier and cheaper 
solution. Just drop a fleet of 
Domino’s Pizza drivers into 
Baghdad. Surrender in thirty 
minutes or less. Guaranteed.
Jason McDonald is a junior 
IM major.
So what does Time know about us and our parents, anyway?
1
Don Pickett
“The new kid boom is a child of 
the postwar baby boom. A decade 
or so ago, the boomers finally had 
kids. And as they’ve tended to do 
about everything else, they’ve be­
come obsessed with parenting; it’s 
an aerobics of the emotions. ‘There 
are fewer children per parent,’ 
explains James McNeal, a pro­
fessor at Texas A&M, ‘and less 
time spent with our children. So 
we try to make up for it. One way 
is e'conomic.’ ”
— Time Magazine, 1/7/91
About a year ago, Time did an 
article on “twentysomethings” — 
that’s you and me, brothers and 
sisters. In great investigative 
journalistic fashion, it interviewed 
10 people ages 18 and 23, and was 
able to comment on our entire 
generation. From this study, Time 
concluded that the present gen­
eration is shiftless, undirected, 
emotionally burnt out, and gener­
ally worthless. We all dress in 
black, listen to Depeche Mode, and 
yearn for a return to the sixties, 
when things were cool, and ev­
erything was groovy.
The media has jumped on this 
idea with a vengeance. Every­
where I see stories of worsening 
scores on standardized tests, in­
adequate curriculum in schools, 
high suicide rates, and, if you 
believe Time, a general emo­
tional malaise that afflicts ev­
eryone from 18 to 23.
The babyboomers, in their striv­
ing to understand us, condemn us. 
In a particularly nasty bit of gen­
erational ethnocentrism, the 
boomers denounce us for being 
unlike them.
They think that our problem 
lies in the fact that we have no 
identity, no cause, no one thing to 
bind us together. And, in their 
self-serving atonement, they
avoid blame for the mess. We are 
not like them — we have no Viet­
nam, no Summer of Love — and 
because of this, we are a mystery.
The boomers are a bit of a mys­
tery themselves. From “Peace and 
Love” in the sixties to “Greed is 
Good” in the eighties, the last gen­
eration has been one of yo-yo-ing 
devotions and inconsistent com­
mitments . The only thing they were 
ever committed to was trying ev­
erything, once, in search of some­
thing to replace what they lost in 
the sixties.
They even tried having kids. As 
in everything else, the baby 
boomers have been half-assed 
parents. We seem to have caught 
them at their worst, awash in 
worship of money, Reagan, and 
the feeling that everything will be 
fine if you can get rich enough to 
forget about all the mess. In the 
rush for achieving the personal 
glory of parenthood, the baby 
boomers have somehow forgotten 
about some aspects of child-rear- 
ing; love, attention, caring, emo­
tion, communication, patience, and 
spending time with their children.
In an age when wedding vows 
are not taken without the first
poison of the pre-nuptial agree­
ment, children are hurt from the 
start. The divorce rate in the late 
eighties was 52 percent, the 
highest since the Great Depres­
sion. As the baby boomers looked 
for “emotional fulfillment,” the 
children were left out in the cold, 
wondering at which parent’s 
house they would get to spend 
the weekend. As the parents 
fractured, so did the children.
There is no longer time to spend 
with the children. Instead, we 
have “quality time,” one of the 
most cynical and self-serving eu­
phemisms ever created. All of the 
little moments that mean so much 
to children, all of the small, rein­
forcing things that produce a bond 
of love and trust between parents 
and children, are gone, squeezed 
out by a busy schedule and self­
absorption. Instead, we have 
“quality time”: Quick, kids, let’s 
go to the mall and celebrate the 
ideal of the American family 
amidst the shopping. Come on, 
Junior, wouldn’t you like to go for 
a spin in Daddy’s new BMW? 
Better hurry, I have to be at a 
tennis lesson in half an hour....
In replacement for caring and
commitment, the baby boomers 
turned to the thing they seem to 
have grabbed onto as the final 
arbiter of their fives: money. Af­
ter they lost their hearts in the 
collapse of the sixties, their brains 
to the drugs of the seventies, and 
their souls to the greed of the 
eighties, the only thing left was to 
get rich and stupid.
So the dollar displaced love. 
Emotion came to be shown mon­
etarily, trust and respect bought 
for the price of a new car on the 
sixteenth birthday. If you couldn’t
spare the time from your busy 
schedule to talk to your children 
when they needed you, then at 
least you could care enough to 
send the very best, right?
It is an interesting twist. A gen­
eration that constantly celebrates 
its own achievements has failed in 
the most important task presented 
to it, preparing us to take over 
when it runs out of causes.
And so we are a generation well- 
versed in the effluvium of society. 
We know more about drugs than 
our parents did, more than they
ever want to know about sex, and, 
thanks to the unique educational i 
opportunities offered us by our , 
parents, we know about these 
things much earlier. No need to 
worry about frizzing your career 
away on a coke habit, when you 
can blow your high school career 
with one.
But Mommy and Daddy always 
did want us to be overachievers, i 
just like them.
Don Pickett is a sophomore 
creative writing major.
Career
Fresh homeade dough spun right before your eyes..
16” CHEESE PIZZA 
$2.99
Offer good Sunday thru Thursday
Original Hotdog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621-0453
Offer not good for deliveryfita
Now available Friday and Saturday- 
One 16” Pizza only $4.49
Nine days that could 
change your life!
Take charge of your future — attend Career Week ’91.
February 16 - February 22,1991
Watch for details about specific events over the next month.
Don’t miss this series of programs concerning your most important investment.
your career.
Career Week ’91 is coordinated by the 
Career Center, Warner Hall 19.
-t

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 199111
Richard Cohen
In a way, this is Ronald Reagan’s 
It is certainly being fought by 
lis Pentagon—everything from a 
leemingly inexhaustible supply of 
lanes and ships (remember the 
¡00-ship Navy?) to fighting men 
¡¡i women who have acquitted 
hemselves marvelously. Smart 
tombs can’t be fooled. They know 
evil empire when they see one 
even if it’s not the one Reagan 
jrst had in mind.
But this is Ronald Reagan’s war 
the home front as well. The 
iyidence is in the polling data — 
he gap between black and white 
upport of the war. Before Janu- 
16, about 66 percent of white 
linericans backed President 
lush’s policy in the Gulf. Among 
lacks, though, the figure was a 
jw 27 percent. After the war 
larted, blacks as well as whites 
allied around the flag — but, 
nee again, not in the same pro- 
ortions. About half of all blacks 
upported the President. Among 
ihites, the figure was 80 percent. 
What accounts for this differ- 
nce? A number of explanations 
iave been advanced. One is that 
Jacks comprise just 12 percent of 
he population, but 23 percent of
Telsp MreRPgaM trPe P8 Hglol8!M zla
the military. This gives rise to the 
so-called “cannon fodder” argu­
ment, an easy reach for someone 
who prefers not to do much 
thinking. The assumption is that 
poor blacks, lacking career op­
portunities elsewhere, join the 
military as a last resort.
But my colleague Juan Williams 
demolished that argument in the 
Washington Post. Citing a num­
ber of experts, he found that 
today’s computer-chip military 
draws its recruits from the work­
ing class. A class division remains, 
of course, but it is not as stark as 
some would have it. This is not an 
armed service of men and women 
who have no other choices in life.
And, anyway, if a familial prox­
imity to the war is the relevant 
factor, why aren’t military com­
munities hotbeds of dissent? In 
the very communities that stand 
to suffer the most, support for the 
war — while hardly unanimous
— seems about average.
Yet another factor, we are told, 
has been the role of black leaders. 
Some of the most prominent 
among them, Jesse Jackson for 
instance, have been highly criti­
cal of administration policy. “If 
war breaks out, our youth will 
burn first,” Jackson said on tele­
vision. Other black leaders, al­
though by no means all, have is­
sued similar statements.
The role of black leaders has 
undoubtedly been important, and
a concern for blacks in the mili­
tary is only natural. But I think a 
more important factor has been 
at work: alienation. Some of that 
is hardly limited to blacks. We 
hear the muddled language of 
alienation, along with some cogent 
arguments, from certain white 
peace activists. Some of them 
seem to think the United States 
picked a fight with Saddam 
Hussein. The issues of the war 
aside, they seem more inclined to 
condemn their country rather 
than a single policy.
A bit of that is inescapable and it 
was present, along with a host of 
real and convincing arguments, 
duiingthe Vietnam War. But when 
polling numbers indicate that one 
particular segment of America is 
significantly out of step with soci­
ety as a whole, there is cause for 
concern. This appears to be the 
case with American blacks — and 
it is, to my mind, understandable.
Recently, some people in this 
town have begun to think about 
what should happen when the 
war is over. The Palestinian 
question, a source of instability in 
the Middle East, must be solved. 
The riches ofthe Gulf states, Saudi 
Arabia included, must be shared 
with the rest of the Arab world. If 
there is, as some insist, some­
thing called the Arab Nation, then 
some of it (Egypt) cannot have a 
per-capita income of $650 a year 
while another part of it (Saudi
Arabia) has one of $6,170.
But if those inequities must be 
dealt with, so must the ones found 
in the United States. Here we get 
back to Reagan — and, of course, 
Bush. If Reagan inadvertently 
prepared his country for war in 
the Gulf, he also exacerbated the 
division between black and white 
America. While it could be argued 
that under Reagan blacks ben­
efited from the general prosper­
ity, it’s nevertheless true that 
many blacks considered Reagan 
to be anything from disinterested 
to hostile.
In scores of ways, some of them 
purely symbolic, Reagan seemed 
the President of white America 
only. Neither he nor the GOP 
seemed to give a hoot about the 
American inner city, the place 
where so many impoverished 
blacks live.
The street demonstrators who 
demand that America cure its own 
ills before tackling those of the 
rest of the world have a point — 
although their timing is bad. Still, 
the polling figures suggest that 
much needs to be done on the 
home front.
With peace, President Bush has 
his work cut out for him. America 
has assembled a coalition abroad, 
but it lacks one at home.
Richard Cohen is a syndicated 
columnist with the Washington 
Post Writers Group.
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
CarnC
Carnnr
Hitler and Saddam: Different time, different place, same result
George F. Will
Now the problem is that Saddam 
lussein is not like Hitler.
Were he like him, we would know he 
rould not survive this war. But because 
le might survive, he still might emerge 
ictorious, in spite of—in a sense, because 
f—U.S. military superiority. Thus the 
nportance of U.S. threats of war crimes 
rials. This threat clarifies, and by dair­
ying, enlarges, U.S. war aims.
President Bush reportedly has read 
[artin Gilbert’s history of the Second 
iforld War, which included a vignette 
bout Hitler’s January 15, 1945, train 
rip back to Berlin from the Western 
font, where he had conducted the 
irdennes offensive. The Russians had 
lready overrun his headquarters in East 
russia and, Gilbert writes, an S.S. 
olonel joked in Hitler’s hearing: “Berlin 
'ill be most practical as our headquar- 
ers: We’ll be able to take the streetcar 
rom the Eastern to the Western Front!” 
¡¡tier, writes Gilbert, laughed.
Hitler’s laughter is an interesting da- 
um. What was going on in that mind at
that apocalyptic moment? The question 
is germane to today’s problem of antici­
pating how the Gulf War may end. 
Suppose Saddam intends to survive and, 
merely by surviving the U.S. onslaught, 
to emerge as an enlarged figure?
The laughing Hitler disdained the role 
of survivor. . By January, 1945, he had 
long since anticipated perishing in the 
immolation he had brought on Germany. 
Suicide is the suicidal person’s way of 
killing everything there is. Thus it can be 
the supreme act of anger. Hitler’s adult 
life can be seen as a protracted suicide, a 
long courtship of annihilation.
On the eve of his 1923 Munich beer 
hall putsch, he put a pistol to his head 
and exclaimed: “If I am not victorious by 
tomorrow afternoon, I shall be a dead 
man.” In his September 1,1939, speech 
declaring war, he wore a soldier’s tunic: 
“I shall not take it off until victory or — 
I will not see the finish.” On November 
23,1939, he said, “I shall stand or fall in 
the war. I shall not survive the destruc­
tion of my people.”
He repeatedly wondered why particu­
lar people, such as General Von Paulus 
in Stalingrad, did not shoot themselves. 
On March 18,1945, when Albert Speer 
blanched at Hitler’s order to destroy 
Germany's life-sus taining infrastructure 
(bridges, power plants, etc.), Hitler said
Saddam cares no more for Iraqis than Hitler 
did for Germans.... He already is receiving 
help from people claiming that attacks deep 
in Iraq constitute an attempt to destroy the 
regime and exceed the U.N. mandate....
Germany deserved extinction.
On April 26, 1942, he required the 
Reichstag to declare that, “The German 
people are battling over the question of 
existence ornon-existence.”Andhemeant 
it, such was his fear and loathing of “inter­
national Jewry” and his other demons.
Saddam cares no more for Iraqis than 
Hitler did for Germans, but Saddam has 
no ideological fuel for self-annihilating 
fanaticism. His plan probably is to take 
punishment from the United States, then 
inflict some, then seek an armistice. He 
already is receiving help from people 
claiming that protracted attacks deep in 
Iraq are an attempt to destroy the regime 
and hence exceed the U.N. m andate, which 
only authorizes restoring Kuwait.
Desert Storm’s patina of international­
ism is important, but it is primarily an 
American undertaking and America
should have primacy in shaping the war 
aims. Furthermore, war aims often are 
shaped by the fighting of the war. The 
Civil War in the United States was begun 
to subdue insurrection, but that minimal 
aim was changed by the tactics that were 
brought forth by its ferocity. Emancipa­
tion ofthe slaves was a way of winning the 
war, so it (“a new birth of freedom”) became 
a reason for fighting the war.
Destroying Saddam is a tactic to facili­
tate the restoration of Kuwait—to speed 
the disintegration of his army — but it 
also is a strategic war aim with the 
aftermath in mind. This may be why the 
Administration is raising the specter of 
war crimes trials.
Such trials may not be threatened 
merely to deter the mistreatment of pris­
oners of war. Trials were implicit in the 
origin of this war, which was approached
with the orderliness of a lawyer’s briefj' , 
with frequent invocations of interna­
tional law. The President mentioned war 
crimes trials last autumn, when the 
Hitler analogy was much on his mind..
War that begins that way acquires, in 
the waging of it, momentum for an end . 
that is punctilious about international 
law. For the President’s generation, par- . 
ticularly, a bright thread runs from the 
Hitler analogy to a Nuremberg outcome.
Even if mistreatment of POWs stops 
and chemical warfare does not start, 
Saddam has waged unprovoked aggres^ 
sive war against Kuwait and Israel. 
Waging aggressive war (at Nuremberg, 
not a war crime but “a crime against. T 
peace”) was one ofthe main counts against 
leading Nazi defendants at Nuremberg.
If war crimes trials are entailed by the , 
rationale for this war, then something like 1 
unconditional surrender also is entailed 
A larger, longer military operation may be 
required than would be required to achieve_. 
less emphatic and less legalistic war aims. ‘ ~
It may be wise, and it certainly will be- 
consequential, if, with war crimes trials 
in mind, the U.S. war aim becomes: 
Saddam dead or in the dock.
George F. Will is a syndicated colum­
nist with the Washington Post Writers 
Group. '• "
(lsUetk MCglpga eU8sugr8 MgaPgM
"LATVIAN SOCIETY: 
ASPIRATIONS AND REALITIES"
Professor Juris Silenieks
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 11:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall
Jar(gMMra yPeg8PgpM zPee RPMsUMM uPM ,PMPt tr clt,Pl $8 tug 
sr8tg^t r( agsg8t g8Rgl,raM nk tug TletPs agCUnePsM tr 
agRg(P8g tugPa ageltPr8MuPC zPtu tug yr,Pgt A8Pr85
WUaPM yPeg8PgpM PM gigaPtUM Car(gMMra r( wag8su l8R l 
MCgsPlePMt P8 DlaPnngl8 ePtgaltUag l8R TletPs MtURPgM5
Bring your lunch - soup and beverages will be provided.
yCr8MragR nk tug 1P,PMPr8 r( ytURg8t q((lPaM l8R tug mrRga8 cl8oUlog l8R vUarCgl8 ytURPgM CaroaliM
Szechuan Gourmet
Shadyside fine Chinese cuisine
Mon- Thur 11:30 - 10pm 
Fri- Sat 11:30 - 11pm 
Sunday 4:30 - 10pm 
Lunch, Dinner, 
& Take-out
Szechuan
Gourmet
?
Fifth
GO
Walnut>«
td?r0)¡3
oT
o’
3
CB
GOft*
8—
£ooo-
**** Mike Kalina
Evening Magazine
Now Serving Daily 
Chinese Dim Sum
15 minute walk from CMU 
10% off with this coupon
,,u,.
i|>rrii’
YuY
$ Y “ 
xex ?
Expires Feb. 28
709 Bellefonte St. 683-1763
I

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
SUPA Dean must be removed
SUPA, from page 6
2r. Two of the five committee 
members have joint appointments 
at SUPA.
3. Dean Blumstein was the 
thesis supervisor for one of the 
committee members.
4. Research money from SUPA 
has gone to at least two of the 
committee members.
In all, four of the five committee 
members have professional, 
monetary, and/or personal ties to 
SUPA and Dean Blumstein. Given 
the composition of the assessment 
committee, we feel that a “conflict
• df interest or bias” on the part of 
tihe assessment committee mem­
bers may “reasonably be inferred” 
and, as such, the integrity of the 
committee’s evaluation may be 
called into question.
\ As SUPA students, we are 
¿ware of a number of sensitive 
issues that need to be addressed 
by the assessment committee. For 
instance, some of the areas we are 
particularly concerned with are 
me quality of the curriculum, the 
quality of the faculty, the diver-
sity of the faculty, the faculty 
turnover rate, the morale of the 
faculty and staff, and the quality 
of the MPM program. Moreover, 
we are disturbed by the level of 
ethics displayed by Dean 
Blumstein’s administration con­
cerning the way SUPA is mar­
keted to prospective students, its 
financial aid policies, its person­
nel policies, and its administra­
tive structure.
Yes, SUPA is financially sound 
while much of the rest of the 
University is in varying states of 
financial chaos. Thus, itis possible 
that the events taking place, and 
having previously transpired, 
under the reign of Dean Blumstein 
may be preempted by seemingly 
more pressing matters on the 
University’s agenda. However, we 
would hope that the acts of the 
present SUPA administration will 
not be overlooked simply because 
of the school’s financial position. 
SUPA may be financially sound, 
but, in our opinion, it is ethically 
bankrupt. And, as students, we 
are very concerned that the
present value of our degree will 
be greatly diminished if SUPA 
stays on its present course. A 
change of leadership is needed at 
SUPA and it is needed now.
Dr. Mehrabian is just begin­
ning his tenure as president of 
this university. Surely, he must 
be aware that other members of 
CMU’s academic community, at­
tentive to the events that have 
transpired at SUPA, question the 
composition of Dean Blumstein’s 
review committee, just as we do, 
and they too are anxiously await­
ing a decision concerning Dean 
Blumstein’s reappointment. We 
are confident that Dr. Mehrabian 
is aware of the significance of the 
decision made concerning this 
matter as far as setting a tone for 
and establishing a precedent in 
his administration. In our opin­
ion, if all the facts are gathered 
and taken into consideration, only 
one conclusion may be reached: 
Dean Blumstein must go.
Some concerned SUPA 
students
Heed the lessons of wars past
Javier Grillo-Marxuach
! One night during my semester 
abroad in London, I found myself 
waiting for the underground after 
á play. Bored by the long wait, I 
began to pace up and down the 
platform, taking short steps which 
then developed into an exagger­
ated goose step. After a few seconds 
of goose-stepping, I heard my name 
shouted out in one of those thou­
sand-decibel whispers my mother 
used to give me when I knocked 
down the melon pyramid at the 
local Piggly Wiggly (actually, 
Kroger, but it adds a bit of color).
The source of the commotion was 
another student in my abroad 
program, who then ordered me to 
stop goose-stepping. When I asked 
why, she looked me straight in the 
eye and asked, “Don’t you know 
who used to walk like that?”
“Who?” I asked, intrigued.
“The Germans/” she replied.
Although I did feel that she was 
taking sensitivity to the extreme, 
the1 two months she had spent in 
London brought her to an aware­
ness of an important factor of ev­
eryday life in the city; the lingering 
effect of the Second World War on 
the,‘English consciousness. As a 
turning point in the nation’s his­
tory, the war has a startling lock on 
many of the attitudes, customs, 
and entertainments of the English. 
E ven though almost half a century 
has passed since V-E, the war re- 
niams the stuff of conversation, 
music, film and even TV sitcoms.
The German bombing campaign 
brought far more than the devas­
tation of the city. The effects of a 
sustained enemy attack range from 
tlje. §hort-term (the separation of 
families) to consequences which 
can be seen to this day (the re­
structuring of social patterns 
caused by the reconstruction of 
London after the war). The overall 
effect is clear: Serving as a major 
theater for the conflict has left an 
indelible scar on the English con­
sciousness.
I One of the clichés which gets 
bandied about whenever trouble 
strikes is that the United States 
has never been bombed or invaded, 
and as such it is unable to under-
stand the damage it inflicts upon 
the countries it has tried to “liber­
ate” during its years as a super­
power. Obviously, this argument 
is currently the fodder of much of 
the discussion surrounding the 
bombing oflraq, Saudi Arabia, and 
Israel.
Although the United States 
served as the setting of the Civil 
War, a major conflict which re­
mains a living issue throughout 
the country, the fact remains that 
the U. S. has not received the abuse 
so many countries have. However, 
this does not mean that the United 
States is or has been unaware of 
the consequences of its war experi­
ences. A key factor in this nation’s 
appraisal of its actions in the dura­
tion and aftermath of the war in 
the Gulf is the Vietnam experi­
ence, and though the lessons 
learned through the Vietnam con­
flict were hard earned, they must 
not be allowed to stand as a buffer 
between the consciousness of this 
nation and the effect of this war.
An important lesson the Viet­
nam War should have taught us is 
that technological superiority does 
not create instant victory. This les­
son appears to have been forgot­
ten. Whereas this war was sold to 
this country under the pretense 
that it would be ended quickly, the 
fact that an offensive which has 
lasted less than ten days is already 
causing concern about the growing 
length of the conflict points to a 
disturbing facet of the mindsetwith 
which this country has approached 
the war. At some point this war 
will cease to be the concern of 
bombers and downed airplanes, 
and when the time comes to march 
in, it is important that the United 
States be allowed to see the people 
it has sacrificed for its cause.
There is much talk about censor­
ing the arrival of caskets from the 
Gulf. This suggestion is obscene. It 
is only fair that the same technol­
ogy which allows the networks to 
show an unmanned Patriot mis­
sile down a Scud be allowed to 
bring home the reality of death 
with the same expediency. We have 
learned from Vietnam that the 
longer the wounds of war are hid­
den from view, the greater it will 
take for them to heal.
One lesson which has remained 
from the Vietnam experience lies 
in the treatment of veterans. The
support shown in this country, even 
in those camps opposing the war, 
to those fighting the war is admi­
rable.
Those who have fought or will 
fight may do so because they had 
no choice but to enter the army, 
because of a personal conviction 
against Iraq, because they could 
not claim the status of conscien­
tious objectors, or merely because 
they could not conceive of leaving 
the United States after having 
taken part of the privileges and 
freedoms afforded them by this 
nation, even if the cost of these 
privileges is taking part in a mor­
ally nebulous undertaking. As 
someone who may be drafted into 
service, I believe that it is the re­
sponsibility of this society to accept 
the veterans of this war both as 
people and as representatives of 
the unpleasant duties which some 
have to undertake, by choice or 
vocation, as a compromise to the 
principles which we hold to be 
important in this country.
But most important, this and 
any war should serve to cement 
what those principles are. If the 
values of this nation, including the 
freedom of dissent, are being 
threatened, it is not because of the 
demonic forces of Saddam Hussein, 
but because the conditions neces­
sitating this conflict were allowed 
to exist. A rational energy policy, a 
less short-sighted policy concern­
ing Saddam’s role in the Middle 
East, and a host of other measures 
which could have been imple­
mented in the past two decades 
would have made the question of 
American military involvement in 
this conflict far more clear-cut.
Those who take an active role in 
what course this nation takes must 
embrace the consequences of this 
war. As in England, the effects of 
the war will be unavoidable, but 
they must not be censored for the 
sake of making the reality more 
palatable. Whether the war is 
viewed as an obscenity, a reminder 
of what had to be done, or anything 
in between, a full awareness of the 
responsibilities inherent in sup­
porting or dissenting against gov­
ernment policy is crucial. War is 
avoidable, but then again, so are 
freedom and responsibility.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a se­
nior writing major.
SECOND ANNUAL 
TRIVIAL PURSUIT CHALLENGE - 1991
V CgaMr8M Cga tgli
)K5OO agoPMtaltPr8 P8 9rUMP8o f((Psg
wgn Vtu. K Ci Y RglReP8g (ra agoPMtaltPr8
DriCgtPtPr8 zPee ngoP8 r8 mr8Rlk wgn SS
HrU8RM zPee ng CelkgR wgn SS. SE. SN. SV
JaPzgM lzlaRgR tr V tgliM ilpP8o Pt tr tug ygiPYwP8leM
Of Politics, Petroleum, and Pertinacity
Randy Udavcak
There is no escape. The news­
paper arrives, and what has be­
come the characteristicfrontpage 
story screams at you in a voice 
made hoarse by repetition. As 
you leaf through your favorite 
magazine in an attempt to elude 
the latest recycled “news flash,” 
you find yourself subjected to yet 
another “analysis” of the crisis in 
the gulf. Seeking a musical re­
prieve, you tune in to your favor­
ite radio station and slip on your 
headphones just as the station 
goes H ve to their man in Baghdad. 
It is not without reservation that 
you click on the television; as the 
blackness recedes, the image 
formed is of the battered faces of 
four captured allied pilots, 
speaking stiffly of the ill­
advisedness of the U.S. attack. 
Try as you might to attain some 
measure of solace in the midst of 
a world gone mad, there is sim­
ply no ignoring the fact that we 
are at war, and that you, dear 
reader, must somehow come to 
grips with the harsh realities of 
this winner-take-all game of 
politics, power, and petroleum.
The glimmer of light engen­
dered by a reduction of cold war 
tensions and the changing face 
of Western Europe has been 
largely overcast by the failure 
of diplomacy in Middle East. 
But while we must all pay close 
attention, we must guard 
against digging ourselves into 
the ideological trenches here at 
home.
In his televised address the 
night of the first air attacks, 
President Bush told Americans 
that the 28 nations comprising
the allied force have the opportu­
nity to “forge a new world order” 
(whatever that means). While 
every American president will be 
documented in history, the cur­
rent commander-in-chief seems 
to feel he has the ability (never 
mind the right) to create, design, 
and manufacture it.
The media has played a large 
role in delivering the breaking de­
tails, but while CNN continues to 
pick and prod through the political 
music library, the folks at the 
Pentagon insist on playing the 
same old broken record: “Every­
thing is going according to plan... 
everything is going according to 
plan....” While I understand the 
need for military secrecy, I can’t 
help recalling the old adage that 
the best laid plans of mice and men 
are roughly equivalent.
But just when you thought it 
was safe to go back to the peace 
rally, there emerges a collection 
of equally-illuminating rhetoric 
from the other side of the ideo­
logical fence. This time the 
speeches are environmentally 
safe: they’re recycled from 1970. 
These impassioned speakers of 
the new left—most of whom were 
still wearing diapers when the 
smoke cleared and the dust settled 
from the mess in Indochina — 
have donned their collective 
headbands and taken to the 
streets, shouting “Hey, hey Uncle 
Sam, not another Vietnam!”
Militarily, there’s little question 
that we’re dealing with a more 
favorable situation than the unfa­
miliar jungles of Southeast Asia. 
More to the point, however, the 
situation in the Persian Gulf is not 
simply “the U.S. to the rescue,” 
once again asserting the power of 
principle in some foreign conflict.
The world is a different place 
than it was in the late ’60s and 
early ’70s. As the Berlin Wall
tumbled to the ground in a 
newly-united Germany, and a 
poet was placed at the helm of 
the newly-independent Czecho­
slovak republic, the global po­
litical climate underwent im­
portant changes elsewhere, as 
well. On November 29th 
twenty-eight nations said they 
would no longer sit idly by while 
another overzealous dictator 
imposed a military agenda over
a formerly-independent nation.
Here at home it seems as if 
everywhere you turn, someone’s 
got an axe to grind, from the 
mainstream papers to the so- 
called “alternative press.” Po­
litical analysts have warned 
that the situation in the gulf is 
the result of a number of fac­
tors, and must be looked at from
several contemporary and his­
torical viewpoints simulta­
neously. Still, both camps go 
right on grinding out the party 
line. One thing is certain: if the 
philosophical axes of the world 
continue to be sharpened at this 
rate, without using any other 
tools in their place, all we’ll be 
left with is a bunch of handles.
So go ahead and discuss kill 
ratios and surgical air strikes, 
while you marvel at footage of 
American technology neatly an­
nihilating an enemy bomb shel­
ter and all its inhabitants in one 
fell swoop of a megabuck laser- 
guided bomb. Or take to the 
streets armed with placards, 
banners, and megaphones, 
shouting the latest sentence- 
fragment assessment of U.S. for­
eign policy, if that’s your thing. 
Just be sure your helmet doesn’t 
cover your eyes, and your 
headband isn’t tied too tight.
Randy Udavcak is a junior 
professional writing I applied 
history major.
Triie yiH oftpf
A "Blood for Peace" blood drive 
February 1, 1991
Forbes Quad Lobby 
University of Pittsburgh 
10AM - 4PM
Walk-ins will be accepted, but donors are asked to please reserve a 
time for donation by calling the Central Blood Bank at 456-1980.
Anyone unable to give blood on this date may donate in the name of 
"Blood for Peace" at any Central Blood Bank in the Pittsburgh area, 
or at any other blood drive. Simply notify the blood bank that your 
blood is to be earmarked for "Blood for Peace."
We ask you to give blood to show your support 
for peace in the Persian Gulf, and to show your 
commitment to creating a truly new world order 
based upon nonviolence.
We oppose all wars, no matter who starts them. 
Stop the madness. War is the enemy that's killing us all.
yCr8MragR nk JPttMnUaou ytURg8tM (ra Jglsg5 $8(railtPr8x mltt FgPMM. jESYEBNSY
SPONSORED BY SDC AND HOUSING OFFICE
)j

---------------------------------------------------

Swim teams sweep Bethany
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon swim teams had 
a load last week competing only once. 
Saturday, both teams handily defeated 
Bethany; the men won 103—56 and the 
women won 103-65.
The Tartan men took first place in 
every event, while the women too^ all 
first places except in exhibition races.
Bethany only had nine women swim­
mers and seven men swimmers. “They 
[Bethany] had some good swimmers but 
they just didn’t have enough of them,” 
said senior Tom Musial.
Tartan head coach Bruce Bronsdon 
switched his swimmers into events they 
had not swam before to “give people a 
chance to swim [a different event] so
7 think we’re right on track.”
— Head Coach Bruce Bronsdon
they don’t get stale.”
Since most of the Tartans swam in 
different events, there “weren’t any real 
surprises [in times],” Bronsdon said. 
However, many individuals turned in 
first place finishes,including sophomore 
Ted Beatty in the 50 and 100 meter 
freestyle, and junior Jo Wollschlaeger in 
the 200 meter individual medley and 
200 meter backstroke. Junior Debbie 
Madsen took the triple crown - she won 
the 500 meter freestyle, the 1000 meter 
freestyle, and the 200 meter butterfly.
In the beginning of the season, 
Bronsdon wanted his teams to use each
meet as a stepping stone to improvement. 
With one dual meet against Slippery Rock 
and the University Athletic Associate 
Championship remaining, Bronsdon is 
very happy with his teams’ progress. “I 
think we’re right on track,” he said.
The teams have another reason to be 
happy - this season they only have one 
championship meet. Last year Carnegie 
Mellon competedinthe Presidents’Athletic 
Association and the University Athletic 
Association and had to swim in two cham­
pionship meets. Bronsdon believes that 
concentrating on one large meet will help 
the team very much.
Giants hold 
on 20-19
Buffalo Bills kicker Scott Norwood 
missed a field goal with eight seconds left 
in the game to give the New York Giants 
their second Super Bowl victory. The Gi­
ants set a record for time of possession 
holding the ball for 40 minutes and the: 
game set the record for the closest margin 
of victory.
This is the NFC’s seventh straight vic­
tory. The last Super Bowl victory for the 
Giants was in Super Bowl XXI. The Buf­
falo Bills have never played in a Super 
Bowl. The farthest the Bills have made it 
is to the AFC Championship game in 1989 
against the Cincinnati Bengals who later 
lost to the 49ers in the Super Bowl.
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
r, guys!
If you’re someone who’s fond 
at things purely in 
terms of numbers, then the first 
half of the men's basketball 
season isn’t for you. A 4-10 
record which includes a 2-6 
University Athletic Association 
mark would seem, on the 
surface, to be a disappointment. 
BZZZZZl Sorry, wrong 
answer.
The fact of the matter is that 
the Tartan team that first-year 
coach Tony Wingen has put 
together is far better than the 
numbers say it is. Sure, there 
are problems. Even Wingen 
admits that his team is not as 
large as other UAA teams and 
is not as deep inside as he’d like 
it to be. But the Tartans have 
shown that they can play with 
any team in the conference 
when things are going their 
way.
It’s not a question of physical 
skills — these guys can defi­
nitely play the game. On 
offense, freshmen Derek 
Dragisich and Michael Hosni 
have provided a steady one-two 
scoring punch, and the whole 
team has played solidly and 
worked well together. The 
defense has also been a lot 
stronger this year — spectacu­
lar at times — but has had 
trouble keeping the tempo up 
for an entire 40 minutes.
So, why are they 4 and 10? A 
¡valid question, certainly. Ask 
anyone what the real problem is 
and you’ll get one of the Tartan 
buzzwords: confidence, inten­
sity, experience. It’s a proven 
fact that when you’ve only got 
one senior and no active juniors 
(junior guard Philip Bronner 
has been injured since the end 
iof the pre-season], you’re going 
to make young team mistakes 
early on.
It takes time to breed the 
intensity that keeps a team 
from getting down on itself 
when it falls behind early in a 
game. It takes a few games like 
the NYU overtime loss to teach 
the killer instinct to put a 
double-digit halftime lead away. 
On-court minutes are the only 
thing that can make the Tar­
tans consistently click as a team 
as well as they did against 
Emory University or Thiel.
But those lessons are learned 
now. There are still 10 games 
in which the Tartans can 
prove something to the fans, the 
UAA, and themselves. The 
Tartans have now seen every 
UAA team at least once, so they 
can apply their experience to 
the rematches.
Six conference losses have 
pretty much killed any Carnegie 
Mellon aspirations to the UAA 
cr°wn, but the Tartans can still 
Nake a successful season of it. 
However, I’m not going to 
sugarcoat the reality that time 
ls mnning out on the safety net 
°f inexperience. Pretty soon, the 
question won’t be about what’s 
JJ1 the hearts or minds of the 
artans, but rather what 
they’re doing on the floor.
the moment, I’m going to 
Pve the Tartans a C-plus on 
heir first-half effort, but that’s 
finitely going to change before 
lt s all over. If the Tartans use 
? at they’ve learned from the 
W!aMt 0V games, the sky’s the 
Jnit on what they can achieve, 
they don’t, I’ll just join in 
Wlth the crowd that lets the 
Ambers do all the talking.
hÌason McDonald is a junior major.
Tal8RéPM ul8RM blatl8M (rUatu MtalPout erMM
josn hreeman/1 latl8 Mtl8 C8rtroalC8ga 
Freshman Michael Hosni battles Brandeis defenders under the hoop.
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Business Manager
The struggling Carnegie Mellon 
men’s basketball team fell to 4- 
10 on Saturday with a 90-88 loss. 
The Tartans came from 21 points 
behind, and according to Head 
Coach Tony Wingen, “we would 
have won if the game was 30 
seconds longer.”
Senior guard Lewis Jackson led 
the late Tartan charge with three 
three-pointers in the last three 
minutes. Jackson and freshman 
guard Michael Hosni led the 
Tartans with 19 points apiece. 
Freshman center Derek Dragisich 
added 18 points in the losing ef­
fort.
“It comes down to heart and 
confidence,” said sophomore 
Lamman Rucker. “A lot of times, 
we start to pack it in and get down 
on ourselves. We need to be more 
assertive and it will affect how we 
play.”
The beginning of the game was 
a close-fought contest—an eight- 
point Brandeis run was immedi­
ately countered by an eight-point 
Tartan spurt. However, the 
Judges put together a 11—point 
run to take a 33-25 lead with five 
minutes to play in the half. The 
Brandeis lead held around 10
WrMu waggil82blatl8 ytl(( JurtroalCuga 
Senior guard Lewis Jackson fires one of his three three-pointers.
points until the intermission, 
which saw the Tartans trailing 
42-33.
“We had a couple of turnovers 
and things got away from us,” 
said Wingen. “We didn’t believe 
we could win, and they started 
pounding on us.
“Near the end, we started to 
believe in ourselves, and we 
started to do the pounding.”
Brandeis maintained control
over the game as the second half 
began, and their lead slowly began 
to increase. Junior forward Andre' 
James, who led all scorers with 25’ 
points, scored 10 over a five- 
minute stretch to make the lead 
56-40. The Judges kept pouring 
the points on, and led 76-55 with 
7:35 left to play.
Half a minute later, the Tartan 
comeback began. In less than two 
Please see MEN, page 14
Tartans outlast Brandeis, 56-54
Li£fw Hf£tsw 
$fHyfpN sw b..
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Business Manager
The Carnegie Mellon women’s 
basketball team came within 
about 18 inches of being on the 
losing end of an 18-point come­
back in Saturday’s University 
Athletic Association matchup 
against Brandeis University. 
Brandéis’ Kara Romanelli’s 
buzzer-beating three-pointer fell 
wide left, sealing a 56-54 Tartan 
victory. The win raised the Tar­
tans’ overall record to 15-3 and 
gave them a perfect 8-0 mark in 
the UAA.
“Coming in, we knew they were 
contenders,” said freshman for­
ward Jeanine Megahan. “They 
had a couple of tough losses on 
the road, but they were hanging 
in there in the UAA. We knew 
we’d have to play well.”
“They had beaten Chicago and 
Johns Hopkins, who both gave us 
a tough time,” said junior guard 
Bridget Eperthener. “Everyone’s 
out to get us, so we knew we’d 
have to rise to the occasion.”
The Tartans controlled the 
tempo of the game in the early 
moments, going on a 19—5 run 
over the first nine minutes. The 
14-point lead would be the Tar­
tan peak for the first half, and 
Brandies provided a preview of
the game’s conclusion by pushing 
to within six points, 28-22, with 
2:18 left in the first half. The 
Tartans added a pair of baskets 
in the last minute, making the 
score 32-22 at the intermission.
The beginning of the second half 
made it seem as if the outcome 
was certain; the Tartans whittled 
the clock away, while slowly 
building their lead. With 8:45 
remaining, the Tartans held a 
seemingly insurmountable 52-34 
lead.
However, the Tartan offense 
stalled down the stretch, scoring 
only four points in the last eight 
minutes. According to Megahan, 
“We lost intensity and got a little 
lax. We were playing around with 
the ball more than we should have 
and passed up on a few open 
shots.”
The Judges went on a four- 
minute, 10-point run which 
chopped the Tartan lead to eight 
with 4:17 remaining. A pair of 
free throws by Eperthener and a 
basket by Megahan closed the 
Tartan scoring with 2:04 left and 
10 points in hand.
Unfortunately, ineffective foul 
shooting down the stretch (three 
missed one-and-one opportuni­
ties) set up the dramatic finish. 
Romanelli brought the ball 
Please see WOMEN, page 14$o8ltPUM ylMiPtl2blatl8 Dr8taPnUtP8o vRPtra. 
Sophomore guard Kelly Sterling attempts to drive past Brandeis’ Racheal Perry.

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
He wants to do his taxes but he finds 
it too difficult to hold a pencil.
Without your help, he may not be able to do them.
Almost everybody has to file taxes, but not 
everyone can do it on their own. Volunteer and 
help make someone's taxes less taxing. Call 
1800 424-1040.
|S{
track lacrosse ice hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow tipping 
indoor track swimming track lacrosse ice hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey 
baseball cow tipping indoor track swimming track lacrosse ice hockey football crew rugby basketball 
soccer field hockey baseball cow tipping cross country indoor track swimming track lacrosse ice 
hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow tipping indoor track 
swimming track lacrosse ice hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow 
tipping indoor tracJStbymrutfjfii^U&q&^^e h(^E^£wtiaU^'^jpfwJiasketball soccer field 
hockey baseball cow golf football crew
rugby basketball soccer field hockeyoaseballcow tipping^idoor track swimming track lacrosse ice 
hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow. tipping indoor track 
swimming track lacrosse ice hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow 
tipping indoor track swimming cow tipping indoor track swimming track lacrosse ice hockey football 
crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow tipping indoor track swimming track lacrosse 
ice hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow tipping indoor track 
swimming ice hockey football crew rugby basketball soccer field hockey baseball cow tipping indoor
To write for Tartan Sports, drop by Skibo 50 or call x2111 and ask for Alim Ray.
Brothers and Big Sisters!
Are you a kid at heart?
Do you miss...going for ice cream? 
playing hide n’ seek? 
dressing up for Halloween? 
having a friend to be silly with? 
If the answer is yes, then join us in
PH125C at 7:30 
Tuesday, Jan. 29...
and find out what it’s like to be a kid again!
For more info, call Cy x5468
Funded by Your Activities Fee
Freshman forward Jeanine Megahan splits the Brandeis defense during Saturday’s 
56-54 victory. The win raised the Tartans’ UAA record to 8-0,15-3 overall.
Tartans resist Brandeis 
comeback for 56-54 win
WOMEN, from page 13
upcourt off a missed free throw and 
launched her pro-length three-pointer 
asrthe buzzer sounded.
•“We didn’t lose confidence or give up 
on our defense; we just went cold,” said 
Eperthener. “We were doing all we could, 
and giving all we had but we just weren’t 
hitting anything.”
Megahan and Eperthener led the Tar- 
t&iis With 14 and 12 points, respectively. 
Megahan also led the Tartans with nine 
rebounds. Racheal Perry led the Judges 
with 23 points.
Earlier in the week, the Tartans lost 
their third game of the season at Grove 
City, The 58-48 loss was only the third 
of the season, but it puts the Tartans’ 
national ranking — numberl2 among 
Division III teams — in jeopardy.
“The score wasn’t a good indication of 
the way we played; it was a lot closer 
game,” said Megahan. “We just couldn’t 
get that one basket that would get us on
a roll.”
“Our defense and offense were OK,” 
said Eperthener, “ but there was no spark, 
no teamwork. We weren’t expecting such 
a tough game from the PAC [Presidents’ 
Athletic Conference].”
The Tartans shot .328 from the floor, 
including a .308 second-half mark. 
Megahan once again led Tartan scorers 
with 16 points; junior center Amy 
Buxbaum added 12 more. Buxbaum and 
Megahan led the Tartans in rebounding 
with seven apiece.
Tonight, the Tartans travel to Thiel 
College before making a weekend UAA 
trip to New York University and Emory 
University in Atlanta. The Tartans beat 
NYU and Emory at Skibo Gym earlier 
this season by scores of58-46 and 67—49, 
respectively. The Tartans have not faced 
Thiel College this season.
The team will also be featured this 
evening in a piece to air on WPXI’s 6 pm 
newscast.
MEN, from page 13
minutes, the Tartans hacked nine points 
off the Judges’ lead, but the Tartans 
found themselves in a must-foul situa­
tion before they could get within single 
digits. The Tartans hit four of their five 
three-pointers in the final minutes, but 
ran out of time before they could make 
the equalizing basket.
“Lewis [Jackson] played great down 
the stretch,” said Wingen. “He hit some 
big threes and made some huge defen­
sive plays. Chris Benec[sophomore 
guard] and Dan Erhard[sophomore 
forward] gave us good minutes off the 
bench.”
“We knew who we were dealing with,” 
said Rucker. “We were about the same in 
the standings, but they’re older and more 
experienced. We just needed to keep our 
intensity level up.”
The loss was the Tartans’ fourth in a 
row, giving them a 2-6 mark in the 
University Athletic Association. Despite 
their record, the team remains optimis­
tic.
“We’ve got a great future,” said Rucker. 
“We’re playing in one of the best confer­
ences in the country at this level, and 
we’re competing. As soon as we can get 
that extra push, we can start pulling 
these games out instead of just losing 
them.”
“We’ve got to believe we can play with 
every team in this league because we 
can,” said Wingen. “We have to go into 
every game believing in ourselves and 
what we’re doing.”
In other action, the Tartans dropped a 
71—53 decision to Grove City on 
Wednesday. One of the keys to the loss 
could be found in the stat sheet — the 
Tartans committed 23 fouls which 
translated to 22 Wolverine points.
Dragisich led the Tartan attack with 
18 points and nine rebounds, and Rucker 
added 11 points.
“They were much bigger than us,” said 
Wingen. “We got off to a good start, but 
then we let them control the tempo and 
they slowed the game down. When we let 
a bigger team control the tempo, we’re 
going to be in trouble.”
WrMu waggil82blatl8 ytl(( JurtroalCuga 
Freshman center Derek Dragisich outleaps Brandeis defenders Andre James (left) l8R 
Everardo Greenaway.
“We were just in a daze,” said Rucker. 
“It was mostly psychological — I don’t 
know how to pinpoint it. I can’t really 
point a finger because I’m not in a posi­
tion to do that.”
This week, the Tartans host Washing­
ton and Jefferson on Wednesday before a
weekend trip to New York University 
and Emory University in Atlanta. W&J 
and NYU defeated the Tartans in their 
first meetings of the year, but the Tartans 
downed Emory by a 89—77 score 1( 
than three weeks ago. Wednesday’s game 
will start at 7:30 pm.
blatl8M erMg tr Tal8RgPM lM 
srignlsp lttgiCt (leeM Murat
Big

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 199115
NHL all-stars exhibit support for U.S. forces
THE PUCK 
STOPS HERE
by Allan Bourdius
NHL players are showing support for 
tJ.S. and Canadian forces fighting in the 
fiddle East. In the 42nd annual All- 
gtar Game last Saturday, all the players 
wore painted United Nations flags on 
the backs of their helmets. Many players, 
including big names like Wayne Gretzky
and Kirk Muller, are wearing both U.S. 
and Canadian flags on their helmets 
during regular play. Armed Forces Net­
works television broadcasts hockey 
games to U.S. forces.
The situation in the Patrick Division 
hasn’t changed very much in the past 
week. The New Jersey Devils broke a 
winless streak that began on December 
23 night by beating the lowly Quebec 
Nordiques 6-1 on Thursday. The first 
place New York Rangers might be ham­
pered by an injury to center Bernie 
Nicholls. Nicholls separated a shoulder 
in a game against the New York Island­
ers and is expected to miss three to four 
weeks.
Fans in Pittsburgh were excited by 
Penguins coach Bob Johnson’s an­
nouncement that superstar center Mario
Lemieux would play in Quebec Saturday 
night. This was Lemieux’s first appear­
ance since March 31,1990. He was out 
due to back injuries.
The Montreal Canadiens are continu­
ing to improve their play as they chase 
the Adams Division leading Boston Bru­
ins. The Bruins currently have 62 points 
and the Canadiens are just three points 
behind.
If the Buffalo Sabres continue to play 
the way they have been of late, it could be 
a three-way fight for first place crown. In 
their last 14 games, they are 10-1—3. 
The Sabres still have a very good shot at 
winning the Adams Division. For the 
first time this season, Buffalo’s three big 
stars — Dale Hawerchuk, Alexandyr 
Mogilny, and Pierre Turgeon—all seem 
to be playing at or near the top of their
games.
The Chicago Blackhawks look like 
they’re going to run away with the Norris 
Division. They currently lead the St. 
Louis Blues by nine points. St. Louis 
right wing Brett Hull became only the 
third player in NHL history to score 50 
goals in 50 or fewer games Friday night 
with a two-goal game against the Detroit 
Red Wings. Both goals were scored on a 
five minute major penalty to Detroit’s 
Bob Probert.
The Toronto Maple Leafs are still 
sinking. They’ve yet to win a game in 
1991. It looks like the Leafs are empty­
ing out their team, retaining only their 
top players like Vincent Damphousse, 
and rebuilding from scratch.
Los Angeles is once again at the top of 
the Smythe Division, but the Calgary
Flames are hot on their trail, just two 
points behind. Even though the 
Edmonton Oilers have bailed out this 
season and are now in third place, their 
death blow might be yet to come. Left 
wing Esa Tikkanen and center Mark 
Messier have both indicated that they no 
longer want to play for the Oilers and 
their George Steinbrenner-like owner 
Peter Pocklington after this season.
The Vancouver Canucks and the 
Winnipeg Jets are still fighting it out for 
the final playoff spot in the division. 
Vancouver might have the edge if center ; 
Igor Larionov and supporting players ; 
like Trevor Linden keep scoring at-the" ; 
same rate.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomore ap- ' 
plied history major.
agz tgli ogtM nlsp P8tr ogla lt P8Rrra sriCgtPtPr8
By MARC ROSTON
¡pedal to The Tartan
Saturday the Carnegie Mellon 
{owing Club competed at the 
>jttsburgh Indoor Rowing 
Championships at Carlow Col- 
The competition was a 2500 
r race against the clock on. 
loncept II rowing ergometers. 
dost competitors were from 
’ittsburgh, but others came from 
»hiladelphia and Ohio.
Carnegie Mellon had a strong 
howingin three events, the men’s 
iipen and lightweight divisions as 
well as the coxswain division for
non-rowers. Dan Ross, Gary 
Hooyman and Dave Garrod, in 
the open division, all proceeded to 
the finals with times of 8:43,8:36 
and 8:32, respectively. Garrod’s 
time of 8:24 in the finals earned 
him fourth place. Hooyman and 
Ross placed fifth and seventh.
In the men’s lightweight event, 
Marc Roston, Jim McBrier and 
Dan Fiore made the finals with 
times 9:17,9:29 and 9:22. McBrier 
finished the finals with a time of 
9:16, an astounding show for his 
first competition in a year after 
recovering from a back injury. 
Fiore also rowed a personal record
“I consider this competition as a 
step in our training program for 
the spring...”
— Coach Liz Winter
in his first competition ever. Greg 
Kupniewski injured an ankle in 
the preliminary round, but still 
finished with a respectable 9:41.
Peter Chan, Chaz Hewgley and 
Kim McCormick competed in the 
coxswain division. This division 
is for men under 130 lbs. and
women under 120 lbs. who nor­
mally do not row. They row a 
1500m race. McCormick earned 
a second place with a time of 
6:47.1, a slight two-tenths of a 
second behind first place. Chan 
and Hewgley placed first and sec­
ond with times of 5:52 and 6:12,
respectively.
The performance was better 
than expected by many. Team­
mate Rick Gibson, who was un­
able to compete this past week­
end, had this to say: “Dude, they 
were awesome! Especially Pete 
[Chanl and Chazman [Hewgley], 
they crushed the competition!”
Coach Liz Winter felt the day 
was an excellent success. “We had 
quite a showing. I consider this 
competition as a step in our train­
ing program for the spring, so I 
wasn’t expecting any miracles. I 
was pleasantly surprised by Dan 
Fiore’s performance in his first
race with the club.”
Winter went on to explain the 
importance of this event from a 
mental standpoint. “Not only does, 
this give the rowers the chance to 
face competition, but the cox­
swains also must face the physi-’ 
cal strain of rowing which they 
are not accustomed to. It really 
helps the rowers mentally later 
in the season to know the cox-, 
swains appreciate the physical1 
pain they go through in a race.“ - 
The crew club will continue 
training indoors until March 
when they return to the wate£ 
and begin the racing season. . .'zgee no 44UPU "4lPUU j. UPUU P U 5a U z t U UPPU “Y“ePQW aaPPkPP UP u.tji.j DqA5QYV5 x. r PUl8P5t SSS APf XXWcff ADoi c2$PD Wc fD(eTAe
Track teams take it easy at SRU, prepare for upcoming meets
3 V AT TM RAV iinillfl nrni Cr-t r-r4-r\ Ql-i nnnmr "D T?v^ J ^TT fU-..]y ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
Although the men’s and women’s track 
earns did not take full teams to the first 
ndoor track meet at Slippery Rock last 
"'riday, they fared very well in the prac- 
ice meet.
The meet was not scored so both head 
oaches rested certain members of their 
iams.
Men’s head coach Gary Meckley 
bought his team did not do as well as he 
loped, even though the Tartans would 
lave placed third if scores were kept.
“Right now it is a matter of getting people in 
shape.”
— Coach Gary Meckley
In past years the men’s team has be­
gun the season without being in good 
shape, but was nevertheless able to im­
prove to be one of the best Division III 
teams in the east.
“We have the potential there to be a 
little better than we are [now],” Meckley 
said when asked about his team perfor­
mance in the future. “We have a long way 
to go.”
Meckley admits that the team’s per­
formance was not at its best. He said this 
is because only some of the team mem­
bers competed.
Some of the runners rested because 
the Slippery Rock track is very hard and
could cause injury.
Women’s head coach Dario Donatelli 
was very pleased with the performances 
of his team, especially the sprinters. “I 
think for first time efforts .... we have 
some good starting places.... There’s a lot 
of freshmen sprinters. I like some of the 
[sprinters] results,” Donatelli said.
If scores were keptt, four lady Tartans 
would have placed: freshman sprinter 
Alicia Gilliam and sophomore sprinter 
Tangy Harris in the 200 meter; and junior 
Lois Raska in the half mile and senior 
Sue Sparks in the two mile race.
The men’s and women’s teams will be
goingto Slippery Rock Friday for a scored. 
meet. Both teams will be taking most, of 
their squads so the coaches can see e£-. 
actly where the team is training-wise.1, 
“We [Donatelli and Meckley] will take all- ’¦ 
our healthy runners which is almost 
everybody,” he said.
“Right now it is a matter of getting, 
people in shape,” Donatelli said. Both, 
teams find it difficult to practice at - 
Carnegie Mellon since there are no in­
door track facilities for throwers and 
jumpers. Friday's meet will be the first 
time the coaches will see all the athletes 
perform.
IM Basketball Schedule
TODAY S GAMES
Division A
'hi Kap (Allan, x4632) vs. Theta Xi T (Mark, x5480) 
|t 6:30
>AE Lions (Mike, x5302) vs. DTD B (Matt, x5390) 
it 7:30
®v Post (Russell, x8357) vs. Theta Xi X (Todd, 
3) at 8:30
¡¡Vision B
Sreen Aces (Tom, x8424) vs. ATO (Matt, x5365) at
¡30
letaBloops (Dave, x5341) vs. Zoo A (Brad, x5329) 
it 7:30
Ika(Rieh, x5425) vs. Navy C (Sean, x5383) at 8:30 
Vision C
|avy B (x4083) vs. DU B (Marc, x5400) at 6:30 
'¡oneers (Scott, x7516) vs. Kap Sig —Boys ofBolo- 
»a at 7:30
ATO A(Matt, x5365) vs. Doherty Dinosaurs (x4239) 
at 8:30
Division D
Hard From Yard (Kevin, x4344) vs. Distant Thun­
der (Gary, x2071) at 6:30
ATI (Scott, x2207) vs. Wet Pi (Jason, 242-3887) at 
7:30
Athlètic Supporters (John, x4843) vs. Weasels 
(Brian, x4663) at 8:30
Division W
Beilstein Bombers (Mike, x3208) vs. Mr. Softee’s 
(Eric, x4059) at 6:30
Ship of Fools (Ben,, x5447) vs. Charlie Matous 
(x2651) at 7:30
Homeboy Shopping N etwork (Mike, x7504) vs. Scud 
Mussels (Paul, x8115) at 8:30
Compiled by 
ALIM RAY
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
owling 
°Mmissioner:
^ Pasqualin, x5978 
latches are still to be rolled at 
0l'Ward Lanes on Saturday 
0lnings. Please call Kris for 
ayoff dates. Two more weeks of 
Aguiar season remain. Fi- 
a,8 start Saturday.
bess
Onimissioner:
Feitt, x3947
ch^80 ma^ches aseduled and report the scores 
he commissioner.
arts
^missioner:
Romeo, x8335
,ease report the winning scoresthecommissioner or to the IM
office at x2214. Playoff dates are 
written on schedule.
Backgammon
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Please get all league games 
played and start playoffs. Sched­
ules are now out.
Bridge
Commissioner:
Rich Romeo, x8335
Basketball
Commissioner:
Majors - Mike Grzywinski, 521- 
8977
Intermediates - Buddy Feitt, 
x3947
Minors - Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Women Only — Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Please check IM Bulletin Board 
for game schedules.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Faculty/Grad Volleyball
Commissioner:
Charles Yount, x7113 
Final entry date is Wednesday 
at 4:30 pm. Games begin Sunday 
at 6:30.
SPORTS DUE FEBRUARY 7
Floor Hockey 
Commissioners'.
Majors - Mike Grzywinski, 521- 
8977
Intermediates - A commissioner 
has not been named yet.
Minors - Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Compiled by 
ALIM RAY
Housing
Classifieds
Frick Park— Furnished effi­
ciency (3rd floor). $300 includes 
gas and laundry. Newly remod­
elled. Non-smoking. Quiet grad 
student/post doc. 371-0444.
South Oakland —5 bedrooms & 
2 bedrooms furnished. New bath 
and kitchen, WAV, washer/drier. 
All utilities included. 683-6108. 
(304)599-4798.
Short Term — Shadyside Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly 
furnished, well appointed, studio 
1 &2 bedroom suites, fully 
equipped kitchen. Includes free 
cable (HBO), phone, parking, 
linens. One block to Walnut Street 
shops. From $41 per day, monthly 
basis. Daily, weekly, & monthly 
rates available. 441-4444.
Jobs
Market U.S. Sprint long­
distance phone service Network 
2000. Excellent opportunity for 
organized, focused person, full/ 
part time 344-1268.
Work Study Students Needed! 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers is seeking 
students with work-study awards 
to work in our administrative 
offices. Students with clérical 
skills and/or office experience 
(typing, filing, telephones), MAC 
experience, design and layout 
experience and accounting or 
book-keeping skills are especially 
encouraged to apply. For more 
information contact Dorinda 
Hughes, 681-5449.
Companion, part-time, for senior
citizen in exchange for free rent in 
lovely Squirrel Hill home. Please 
call 521-4056.
Overseas Opportunities — Two
year positions in developing 
countries. Citizenship/degree 
required. All expenses paid. 
Excellent benefits — loan defer­
ment/grad school assistance. Call 
Gwen Allen, Peace Corp Rep 648- 
7424.
Fast Fundraising Program —
$1000 in just one week. Earn up to 
$1000 for your campus organiza­
tion. Plus a chance at $5000 more! 
This program works! No investment 
needed. Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 
50.
Spring Break 91 — Enthusiastic 
individual or student organization to 
promote Daytona Beach and 
Cancún, Mexico. Earn free trips and 
extra $$$$$. Contact Todd at STS, 
1-800-265-1799.
Services
Spring Break 91—Enthusiastic 
Individual or Student Organization 
to promote the two most popular 
Spring Break Destinations: Daytona 
Beach #1 and Cancún #2. Earn free 
trips and extra $$$$$. Contact Todd 
at Student Travel Service 1-800- 
265-1799.
Study Abroad in Australia — 
Information on semester, summer, J- 
term, Graduate, and Internship 
programs. All programs under 
$6000. Curtain University, 1-800- 
878-3696.
Typist —Professional, experienced 
in dissertations, theses, term papers.
Top quality work. Satisfaction 
guaranteed. Call 372-1376. 
HeatWave Vacations, Spring 
Break 1991. The Best Rates — 
Cancún, Jamaica, Bahamas. For 
more information, call Gregory at 
800-395-9283.
Abortion, Morning after 
treatment. Free pregnancy 
testing, supportive atmosphere. 
Birth control, VD testing, men 
and women. Call 661-8811. 
Allegheny Reproductive.
***Low Student, Faculty 
Fares*** AYH Passes*** 
EurailPasses*** TravelBooks*** 
All to be found at Forum Travel. 
Visit us at 4608 Winthrop St. (off 
South Craig) or call us at 681-
Miscellaneous
Caribbean — $189 for Spring 
Break! Why freeze here when for 
only $189 you can be stretched 
out on the sands of the sunny 
Caribbean or Mexican coast for a 
week? R/t air. SUNHITCHtm 
621-7700.
Is it true? Gov’t seized vehicles 
from $100? Call for immediate 
information. (504) 649-5745,
Ext. 10300.
Please send Classifieds 
to The Tartan, Box 17, 
Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity, Pittsburgh, PA, 
15213. Call 268-2111 
for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

SHORT & SUITE
SHORT - TERM LEASES 
ELEGANT, FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT 
STREET SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $44 
per day*, daily and weekly rates available. Includes 
FREE local phone, cable TV (2 movie channels), 
all linens, completely equipped kitchen and 
parking. Maid and concierge services available.
^hadjjside^^fw
Call Jessica for special group rates 
5405 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
TOLL FREE 800-76-SUITE
* Studio apartment on a monthly basis
J-----
vi

---------------------------------------------------

kgla lt DmA zPtu sgegnaltPr8Dg8tga ilapM (PaMt
Volume 85, Issue 14 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 28 January 1991
Women’s Center turns one!
By MEGAN GREIG
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Friday evening, 
CMU’s Women’s Center 
celebrated the success of 
its first year on campus. 
Harriet Protos, a senior 
professional writing major 
who is actively involved 
with the Women’s Center, 
said the centeris“... agreat 
place to come and hang out 
and be comfortable; it’s not 
like sitting at the library to 
do homework or going in 
Skibo to eat lunch. It’s got 
a lot of character.”
Others who are involved 
with the Women’s Center 
share this sentiment. The 
Center has sponsored dis­
cussions of topics such as 
sexual assault and preju­
dices in the classroom, 
giving participants the op­
portunity to air their ideas
and opinions about issues.
Keren Kurti, an H&SS 
sophomore, believes that one 
of the reasons the Women’s 
Center is needed is due to 
CMU’s uneven ratio of males 
to females. “To a large ex­
tent, CMU is a very ... male 
campus. I think that it’s 
important that women work 
for women’s issues on the 
campus — with that type of 
an environment. I think it’s 
harder to do that when there 
aren’t as many women 
around, so it’s important 
that the center is there, ” says 
Kurti.
In addition to special-in- 
terest lectures held at the 
Center every Tuesday, there 
is also a library containing 
books on women’s issues. 
Thus, anyone visiting the 
Center has access to a wide 
variety ofinformation about 
an array of topics concern-
3Uk Jl'Ugttg2blatl8 ytl(( JurtroalCuga 
Ellen Siegel, left, and Lisa Lelzman enjoy cake and conversation at the 
Women’s Center's First Birthday Party.
ing women. similar interests. Kurti con-
The Center began as a firms that she became in­
small group of individuals volved with the Center be- 
concerned with such topics cause of friends who were 
as equality on campus. The already involved in the pro­
group decided to form to at- grams there. Throughoutits 
tract other individuals with first year, the Center has
attracted attention this way, 
and, consequently, received 
much outside support.
The Center has gained rec­
ognition with lectures such 
as “Women in Science and 
Engineering” and a lecture 
given by novelist Judith 
Franz.
The Women’s Center is 
providing a special place for 
a growing number of both 
men and women to go to. 
Protos concludes, “...I’ve 
learned a lot in the year I’ve 
been with the Center. If it 
hadn’t been for the Women’s 
Center, my last year at CMU 
would have been very dull. I 
feel like I belong there; I guess 
you could say it’s a very wel­
coming atmosphere.”
The Women’s Center is 
opend to men and women. 
There hold regular meetings 
at the Center on Sundays at
3 pm.
Members of the Women's Center Invited campus to Its party via its 
display window. Often, the members paint the window with original 
artwork.
3Uk Jl'Ugttg2blatl8 ytl(( JurtroalC8ga 
David Shumway, left, an associate professor in English, Jess Reeves, 
senior art major, and Jen Saffron, junior art major, at the Women's 
Center birthday party.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
Heavy metal bands can’t justify their love;
Hypocrisy tends to rear its ugly head 
in the most unlikely places.
Given her high public profile and un­
inhibited personality, one must think 
that Madonna would naturally be sur­
rounded by a shroud of total and pristine 
honesty. The controversy stirred by her 
video for the song “Justify My Love,” 
therefore, came as a great, confidence- 
in-society-shattering blow for me. It is 
not merely that MTV refused to show 
her video at the same time it undertook 
a massive advertising campaign bear­
ing the slogan “censorship is un- 
American,” but rather, it is the obvious 
double standard under which the video 
was banned that once and for all shat­
tered my youthful idealism concerning 
the once-proud all music video network.
Yes, Madonna’s video did have mo­
ments which may be considered sexu­
ally explicit, but it seems bizarre that in 
these days of chemical warfare, the 
threat of nuclear retaliation, Scud mis­
siles, and the heinous doppelganger that 
is Saddam Hussein, the presence of a 
nipple on national television can be the 
source of such an uproar.
Oddly enough, at the same time Ma­
donna embarked on her much publi­
cized exploration of her libido (oh, who 
are we kidding, all of the juicy parts 
were out of focus anyway), MTV began
JAVIVISION
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
to run the new video from the German 
rock quintet The Scorpions. Now, The 
Scorpions are unique among bands not 
only in that their lead singer bears an 
uncanny resemblance to failed presi­
dential candidate Joe Biden, but also in 
that they have joined that growing 
number of acts which are no longer able 
to appear as sex symbols in their own 
music videos.
Indeed, as time marches on, many 
stars in the hard rock firmament are 
beginning to feel the need to comb a 
couple of those precious long hairs onto 
the ever-widening gulf between their 
eyebrows and hairline. The Scorpions, 
whose lead singer has taken to wearing 
a hat (a sure sign that male pattern 
baldness isn’t too square to rock’n’roll) 
leads the pack.
In any event, the video for the latest
model of The Scorpions single “Please 
Me, Tease Me” (indicating a patina of 
lyrical subtlety from which Madonna’s 
song was thankfully spared) features 
The Scorps playing in a garage crowded 
with jet skis and power tools (which 
immediately transforms the space into a 
veritable gallery of phallic symbols) while 
the studly young caretaker who has been 
hired by a beautiful young woman’s 
wealthy middle-aged husband displays 
his sweaty pectorals in the course of an 
afternoon’s worth of orgiastic lawn care. 
It doesn’t take too much post-hole dig­
ging and statue-rubbing before their 
mutual attraction is consummated on 
the living room sofa. And the piano. And 
the staircase. And the buffet.
An interesting side note is that The 
Scorpions’ video also demonstrates a 
dramatic improvement in underwear 
technology, as both the woman’s and the 
young caretaker’s underwear appears 
to change color and configuration sev­
eral times, sometimes within the span of 
a single sexual encounter.
Although this sort of behavior has 
always been the staple of hard rock video 
titillation, this particular example of 
swinging Aryan album rock stands out 
in that it is representative of a relatively 
new trend which echoes the 
homoeroticism inherent in Madonna’s
own shocking video offering. As strange 
as it may seem, the traditional purvey­
ors of T & A to the mall-and-Camaro 
crowd are beginning to pepper their of­
ferings with doses of sexually confused 
behavior which would make Madonna 
blush if she had the capacity.
How else can one explain the continu­
ous dalliance with male swimming pool 
statues performed by the young man in 
The Scorpions’ video, or the seeming 
fetish with power tools, or even the fact 
that the young man’s chest is larger 
than that of his mate?
Of course, from the dawn of Robert 
Plant, hard rockers have traditionally 
been able to get away with looking like 
drag queens because of the blatant het­
erosexual message of their music. 
Whereas Boy George caused a national 
stir back in ’82 with his cross-dressing 
ways, the band Poison, because they 
extoll the virtues of the “Unskinny Bop” 
(an act which apparently involves one 
man, two women and many yards of 
Naugahyde), probably keeps more pink 
Cadillacs on the road than the state of 
New Jersey.
Maybe it began on that fateful day in 
1986 in which Steve Vai’s hand came 
dangerously close to David Lee Roth’s 
crotch during a frenzied bout of air 
guitaring. It may have even begun dur-
ing the making of the videos for Bon 
Jovi’s album Slippery When Wet, in whicjj 
many fans began to notice that the tra¡ 
ditional diet of women, women, antj 
women was quickly being replaced witlj 
endless shots of the band members ex; 
changing chummy embraces, pats on 
the back, and, ultimately going out to 
get liposuction together. In any event! 
the message is clear: after decades of 
portraying women as objects, the mem» 
bers of the hard rock establishment mfyj 
very well have found themselves ^ 
alienated from the very individual«} 
whom they seek to seduce with théir 
music that they have been forced to turn 
to one another for comfort.
But more importantly, by playing the 
buddy-buddy-we’re-just-guys-touching! 
each-other-really-here-comes-a-corn^ 
pletely-extraneous-shot-of-a-semi-nudel
woman-to-prove-it antics of bands, sufclj 
as Warrant, while refusing to pl^ 
Madonna’s video (and in doing so, prej 
venting the more serious discussion of 
the subject of sexuality which oftentimes 
arises from tripe such as “Justify Sly 
Love”), MTV has managed to push its 
credibility (which, as it is, teeters some­
where between the aesthetic value'of 
Tim Conway’s Dorf videotapes and tjjp 
depth of editorial comment in USA To- 
Please see JAVI,
DUttP8o ulPa PM r8ek Clat r( rUa 6rn5 
DUttP8o egiM ulPa tug zlk krU loUv 
Pt PM g,gaktuP8o5
fUa g^CgaPg8sgR Mtl(( PM talP8gR tr 
ePMtg8 (PaMt555tug8 sUt5
Save Some 
Green
with our 
New Pricing Policy
HAIRCUTS 
$12 to $14
with any Junior Stylist
Walk-in Tutoring
Lewis’ Hair Salon
813 S. Aiken Avenue 
Shadyside 
682-4063 
As always, your satisfaction 
guaranteedJunior ECE major Serge Sherman and junior art major Tammy Willis were among the nearly 300 people 
who attended the CIT/MCS Winter Ball Saturday night at the St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox church on 
Forbes and Dithridge. The Society of Women Engineers has sponsored the ball for the past five years.
8-11 pm
5403
5427
5205
5205
5427
The Right Place To Turn
*Starts Sunday, February 3,1991
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs
Sunday through Thursday
CalculusWeH
PhysicsWeH
ChemistryWeH
Academic WritingWeH
Intro to ComputingWeH
Everybody dance now!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991L3
9kCrsaPMk tuaP,gM lt mbQ
JAVl, from page L2
day) even further into the prover­
bial commode.
So while Madonna (fancying 
herself a pioneering champion of 
the American libido) found her­
self at the center of an uproar 
because her video depicted scenes 
of homosexual love, MTV raised 
little or no objections to playing a 
video in which the band Warrant 
is alternately shown splashing a 
scantily dressed woman with a 
penchant for dropping triangu­
lar slices of cherry pie on her own 
lap with a somewhat limp 
fireman’s hose and congratulat­
ing each other for their marks­
manship.
Whereas Madonna cut straight 
to the chase and presented her­
self in bed with another woman 
and caused a commotion in the 
process, these hard rock bands 
have (understandably) chosen to 
leave the disclosure of their con­
fused sexual identity to the deep 
abyss of Freudian slips which 
permeate their video oeuvre.
Unfortunately, Madonna made 
the crucial mistake of keeping 
her lyrics non-gender specific, 
where Warrant clearly labeled 
themselves as flaming hetero­
sexuals by shouting out anthemic 
choruses of “SHE’S MY CHERRY 
PIE/COOL DRINK OF WATER 
SUCH A SWEET SURPRISE/ 
TASTE SO GOOD/MAKE A 
GROWN MAN CRY/SWEET 
CHERRY PIE!” (I think it’s in 
iambic) and managed to avoid 
being seen for the sexually mis­
guided chaps they truly are.
I have little sympathy for 
Madonna’s tits-out-for-feminism 
approach to music video.
She was not exactly the victim 
in this affair, as she wound up 
making a ton of money, scoring a 
top hit, and singlehandedly in­
venting the market for single­
song video cassettes.
Personally, I found “Justify My 
Love” (as many of her other vid­
eos) to be as patronizing in its 
pretense of liberation as the vid­
eos of bands such as Warrant 
offend me in their Cro-Magnon 
approach to sexuality. However, 
in the thin archives of music video 
integrity, Madonna wins an lion-; 
orable mention for her attempt to 
revolutionize the depiction of 
sexuality in music video by 
bringing back the nipple. Seeing 
as I consider myself an honest 
person, I can safely say that 1 
would infinitely prefer finding 
myself in a bed with Madonna 
and another woman to being atop 
a fire truck with the collected 
members of Warrant. Even if this 
meant being accused of partici­
pating in the unskinny bop. '
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a se­
nior creative writing major.
added drink — I mean drink in
QP,gp 3UCtl2blatl8 JurtroalCuga
uCMU’s Indian organization, Mayur, held a brief ceremony to celebrate India's Republic Day and sang 
?the national anthem on Saturday.
yulag l Mirpg zPtu Wrg 3agg8 r8 tug yrUtu yPRg
•It’s Saturday and I’m knocking 
around the South Side when I 
•notice a large automobile pulling 
¡¿to Bloom’s Cigar Co. A woman 
¡l&ins out the window on the 
¡dnver’s side and hollers, “Take 
I care of Sonny at Cigar Camp 
land I’ll pick him up at 4.” What’s 
'this Cigar Camp of which Sonny’s 
'wife speaks, and why does Sonny 
¡look so damn happy? After a few 
days went by, I returned to the 
South Side to investigate the 
source of Sonny’s bliss by cross­
ing the threshold into Bloom’s 
myself. What I found seated in a
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO 
PLATINUM BLONDES
by Andrew Cosentino
relaxed, den-like atmosphere, 
were a bunch of cigar-smoking 
customers and “workers” who all 
swear by Bloom’s recipe for suc­
cess: take a generous amount of
business, add to it an even more 
generous portion of pleasure, and 
stir well.
From behind his desk and lean­
ing back in his captain’s chair, 
owner Mark Adams, whose great- 
uncle Jacob Bloom “was hustling 
cigars in 1910,” talks to old friends 
about new orders on his cordless. 
Yet another regular of Bloom’s 
steps in the door, sits among the 
anecdote-telling circle and pro­
nounces, “I need a smoke.” The 
pale-green walls of the shop are 
completely covered with photo­
graphs of all the customers, each
one seemingly happier than the 
next. Some even happier than 
Sonny. I came to a quick decision 
that this place has been a haven 
to a lot of people over the years. 
“You can walk in and smoke all 
day, nobody cares here.”
As I scanned over the hundreds 
of pictures my eyes stopped on 
Joe Green. A man named Norm, 
who was taking some heat from 
the rest of the guys that day be­
cause he had his sweater-vest on 
backwards, became my personal 
advisor on cigars and informed 
me that “Green likes the Punch
Cigar, it’s got a lot of zip to it.” 
What’s good enough for a former 
thread in the “Steel Curtain” is 
good enough for me — I lit up a 
Punch. Green is a big man. This 
was a strong cigar. In seconds my 
head was reefing and I struck up 
a conversation with a wooden ef­
figy of an American Indian. Quiet 
guy.
Norm really took me under his 
wing. The back of the store was a 
room filled with boxes of cigars. 
As Norm and I stood on the plush 
Oriental mg he informed me that 
we had entered the walk-in
humidore, where he would pro­
ceed to dissect a cigar, and by 
revealing its innards, prove its 
superiority over the pompous 
Garcia y Vega and its kind. For 
years Garcia has been bragging 
about their natural leaf wrappers,; 
but what exactly does this mean?. 
Norm knows cigars. With tlie' 
hands of a surgeon Norm showed; 
me that cigars sold at Bloom’s are 
composed of many whole leaves of 
tobacco which are then wrapped 
to form the end-product, while 
companies like Garcia y Vega put 
a leaf on the outside of the cigar 
and hold a bunch of tobacco scraps, 
woodchips, cow dung and hedge 
clippings together with a paper 
binder which sits directly under 
the solitary natural leaf. Norm 
looked up over his glasses at his 
young apprentice, I gave him a 
nod of understanding, and class 
was dismissed.
I followed Norm to the front of 
the store and on the way became 
enlightened to the fact that where; 
Norm’s sweater-vest was con­
cerned, he should always machine' 
wash in cold water, no bleach, 
tumble dry on low or dry flat, and 
pass it under a warm iron, ©p- 
front the conversation had turned 
to plans for the next Cigar Camp. 
“Call ‘what’s-his-name’ in Lake 
Erie, he’ll come down.” Somehow,; 
I couldn’t picture these guys sit­
ting around a campfire in the wil- 
demess while singing cigar songs 
and roasting marshmallows. Af­
ter speaking with owner Adams 
about his day camp, I realized 
that ruffing it in the great out­
doors, especially the roughing it 
part, missed the point of Cigar 
Camp by a fairly good measure.
It seems that when Adams “first 
started bringing food into the store' 
on Saturdays” years ago, it was a- 
big hit with the customers who; 
liked to hang around and frater­
nize for a while. So to the food he
the strongest sense of the word— 
and mailed out flyers to custom­
ers everywhere. Before long he 
had guys traveling from other' 
states to spend Saturdays at; 
Bloom’s. One Tom Wansick packs; 
his gear and comes in from West; 
Virginia every weekend, just like 
clockwork. “There’s a premium 
on good cigars, so they’re worth 
traveling for. We compare war 
stories and have a good time.”
The letter on the wall which 
thanks Adams for the box of Ja­
maicans he sent the Prince of 
Wales during his visit to Pitts­
burgh serves as proof that Bloom’s 
indeed treats people like royalty. 
Employee Dick Gailey holds fast 
to a philosophy handed down to 
him from his father, a philosophy 
that meets with great approval at 
Bloom’s. “If you have the choice 
between standing and sitting 
down, sit down. If you have the; 
choice between sitting down and 
lying down, lie down.” As for 
Cigar Camp, Gailey offers fur-: 
ther words of wisdom: “Come into 
Camp, enjoy a sandwich, a drink, 
a cigar, and a lot of bullshit.”
Andrew Cosentino is a sopho­
more in H&SS.
American Express Announces A Great New Travel Program.
Now students can get the Card 
and get 3 roundtrips on Continental 
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each.
There’s only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending 
a lot of money And that’s by getting the American Express® Card. 
It’s the only card that offers an exciting new travel program 
exclusively for students—including three roundtrip certificates on 
Continental Airlines.
Just look at the map and pick the place you’d like 
to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you 
can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, 
you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the
Membership Has Its Privileges“
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—because 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations 
within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 
7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.
In addition to this great travel program, you’ll also enjoy all 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa­
tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable 
discounts from leading retailers.
But remember, there’s only one way to get all this—and that’s 
by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
address and account number on hand). What’s more, 
with our special student offer, it’s easier to get the 
Card now while you’re still in school than it may 
ever be again.
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.
E
 bHqQvc
Hvcqbv1
yvHQ$DvyAn Amencan Eipioss companyDqcc SYdOOY;VEYqmvX
¡J you're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.CONTINENTAL

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
Tgzlag r( leePoltraM l8R trUaPMtM P8 tg8 oleer8 ultM
Having gone back to the South for 
break, I found it quite refreshing to look 
again at it from a participatory point of 
view.
I’m not very familiar with certain parts 
of the region, such as Louisiana and 
South Carolina. All I know about Louisi­
ana is that they like eating spicy food 
and talk like Frenchmen from Dixie. (I 
have heard some advice about 
Lpuisianans ... like, “Never eat gumbo 
made by someone named Thibodeaux.”) 
And South Carolinians, well, they do 
what South Carolinians do, I suppose. 
However, having a boyfriend from the 
Lone Star State of Texas, I learned about 
the southeastern parts of Texas as they 
integrated themselves into Southern 
culture.
When most people think of Texas, 
mobile homes sitting on hundred-acre 
plots of desert and backyard oil wells
SOUTHERN COMFORT
by Alison Carter
come to mind. Truth is, though, wher­
ever you find a warm gulf climate, all the 
South goes with it. South of Houston, 
you can still find many old sugarcane 
plantations dilapidated with age and 
turned into museums, the warm, wet 
climate so indigenous to the South, and 
the frothy Spanish moss hanging from 
the trees, giving an aged sense of slow
culture.
The people around Galveston and Clute 
are not that different from the people 
living on the Gulf in Alabama, Missis­
sippi, and Florida. There is a fair num­
ber of Louisianans there, if family names 
can be used as a guide; and even though 
Texas has been the Wild West ideal for 
many decades, it will never give up its 
strong Southern ties.
When I arrived in Houston Hobby 
Airport, there were tourists wearing 
cowboy hats. It reminded me of the hat- 
toting tourists in Nashville, assuming 
that all people in Nashville wore cowboy 
hats. Not so for Nashville, and not so for 
Texas. People getting off the planes from 
Far-Off Northern USA expected to land 
in some sort of savage desert cow ranch 
land, where the toughest wore their 
Stetson hats. I was pleased to see the 
looks of embarrassment on the faces of
men in their leather-fringe outfits when 
they saw that they don’t always reach 
the Wild West when they reach Texas.
The Galveston area is a mixture of all 
parts of Southern culture. Before heavy 
industry moved into that part of Texas, it 
was no more than a wet swamp, thou­
sands of alligators, and a few cracker 
migrants from the Louisiana bayou 
outback.
But when industry called, the South 
came. People from all the Southern states 
came to work for all the industries there, 
and soon the area became a cultural 
cross-section of the entire region. (Ex­
cept, of course, for the proud taste for 
spicy food which comes from Texas’ 
swampy neighbor state.)
The almost uniform dedication to reli­
gion, the accent, the polite manner of 
living and speaking... all there is to call 
“southeastern Texas” in the South.
However, I would not like to live there? 
the reason being that most of the alii? 
gators have not been properly trained in 
their Southern manners. I would 8rt 
care to wake up one morning with a 
fourteen-foot gator sunning itself on my 
porch with a happy look on its face l8R 
my cat in its stomach. The far southern 
parts of the South are not for the weak of 
heart.
However, if given the choice either toJ 
live in any Northern megalopolis, or live 
out the weather and critters down deep 
in the bayous and swamps, I would choose 
the latter, simply because the people are 
polite, the food is tasty, and I wouldn’t-» 
have to pay Pittsburgh-priced heating- 
bills.
Alison Carter is a freshman in CFA 
who sells cowboy hats to unsuspecting 
tourists at Houston Hobby Airport.
a PERSON'S
OPTION
“How helpful has the Aca­
demic Advisoiy Center been 
to you? On a scale of one to 
ten, how would you rate its 
usefulness?”
Valerie Carver 
freshman, H&SS
“Well, I only went there once, 
and they were fine — 8.”
Lauren Daniluk 
sophomore, H&SS
“It’s been very helpful to me. 
My counselor really knows what’s 
going on around campus, and he’s 
been helping me with my own 
special needs ... like my self-de­
fined LCA [Language, Culture, 
and Arts requirement! — 7.”
Marion Kee 
graduate student, 
philosophy
“They’ve been very helpful to 
me, but considering that I’m a 
graduate student and a TA, I go 
there mainly to talk about what 
my students are doing. I don’t 
really know about what they do 
for the undergrad students — 9.”
Kim Kikuchi 
sophomore, H&SS
qng cg,P8g2blatl8 JurtroalCuga
Michael Leddon 
freshman, H&SS
“My freshman year it was very 
useful, because I didn’t know what 
I was doing, but this year it hasn’t 
been as much help because I al­
ready pretty much knew what I 
was doing as far as scheduling 
goes — 6.”
“Actually, I’ve never used it, 
so I can’t really give it a rating.”
3aggp yP8o 0S;;S
1gMPo8 DriCgtPtPr8
Can you come up with the winning • theme and logo for Greek Sing 1991?
The design will be used for Greek Sing t-shirts, posters, and programs.
B $50.00 prize will be given forthe winning design. ^
Design can be any size, two colors.
Please submit entries by February 
4th to the Greek Sing mailbox at 
the Skibo Info. desk. 
Questions? Call Liz Stuetz at x5962
Dalmo Optical
A New Discount
For CMU Students, Faculty, & Staff
Save 20%
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam:
Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric profile. 
The result...confidence in vision for you.
In-House Laboratories:
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, and 
you get Dalmo’s assurance of the highest quality and accuracy in 
the industry
The New Vision - In Frames and Contacts:
Selection. It’s the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo 
Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated profiles in 
frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and Disposable 
Contacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs fromEurope...the best designs in 
America...Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
Squirrel Hill 
5824 Forbes 
Ave. 
521-2100
¡Hi:

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Department airs noteworthy opera
— Theatre Review —
THE MARRIAGE OFFIGARO. bug Mtrak r( tug uPelaPrUM iPMulCM tult Rgelk 
wPolar“M ilaaPlog tr uPM nger,gR yUMl88l5 1PagstgR nk Hrngat Jlog l8R 
Wl8gt TrrpMCl85 qt tug FP8sugMtgaYbuUaMtr8 ysurre tr8Pout. triraarz. 
l8R FgR8gMRlk 8Pout lt d Ci5 wra P8(railtPr8 lnrUt tPspgtM slee ^ENdN5
burilM hPsureM2blatl8 yg8Pra JurtroalCuga 
Susanna (Tanya Stum) and Figaro (Larry Street) embrace while singing 
of their love for each other.
Vlusic
3y'MARNI BOREK
Tat,tan Asst. Diversions Editor
S&me want to make it to Broad­
way one day. Others are daring 
and buy their one way ticket to 
Hollywood. Then there are those 
destined to challenge the Metro­
politan Opera. Is the CMU cast of 
Wojfgang Amadeus Mozart’s op­
erate Marriage of Figaro ready 
to foke Manhattan?
Only one piece of advice can be 
given to the cast, orchestra, and 
directors of Carnegie Mellon’s 
Music Department’s first opera, 
The Marriage of Figaro — pack 
your bags and buy those plane 
tickets. The Met needs your 
enormous talent.
' Nothing but praise can be given 
to the performance of The Mar­
riage of Figaro, which thrived 
under the direction of professional 
coach Janet Bookspan and CMITs 
own choral director Robert Page. 
Thé witty opera’s debut on Sat­
urday night produced thunder­
ous applause from the audience. 
Thé opening performance was 
dedicated to the late Dr., 
Frederick Dorian, Professor 
Emeritus ofMusic, who developed 
the university’s Opera Workshop 
program.
Since the opera is being per­
formed in English, it was placed 
in à new setting — that of a New 
Orleans plantation circa 1830. 
The libretto tells the story of Mas­
ter ¡.Almaviva’s valet Figaro and 
his; love, Mistress Almaviva’s 
maid, Susanna. Susanna informs 
Figaro, her husband-to-be, that 
their master is romantically in­
terested in her. Figaro promises 
to teach his master a lesson. 
Meanwhile, the head house­
keeper of the plantation, 
Marcellina, vows to make Figaro 
herhusband. She had loaned him 
money several years earlier and 
had made him promise to marry 
her, if he did not repay the loan. 
pr.jBartolo, Marcellina’s “partner 
m crime,” is more than eager to 
^djher, since Figaro had helped
Master Almaviva win Rosina 
(Mistress Almaviva), who had 
once been his love.
In the midst of all the crazy 
mishaps on the plantation is the 
youthful Cherubino, who can be 
labelled as nothing else than a 
raging young hormone. He chases 
after all the women on the planta­
tion until Master Almaviva or­
ders him to join a militia regiment. 
Cherubino never leaves, though. 
He disguises himself as a woman 
and accompanies the female ser­
vants in performing their daily 
tasks.
As the web of conflicts and hi­
larious misunderstandings is 
spun, we can only question what 
will happen next. Will the dis­
tressed Rosina win back Master 
Almaviva? Will Susanna escape 
the groping hands of Master 
Almaviva and wed her clever 
Figaro? Will Marcellina realize 
the chemistry is not right between 
her and Figaro? Will Cherubino 
learn to control himself in the 
presence of the women of the 
plantation? All these questioned 
are answered by the cast of The 
Marriage of Figaro.
The cast of the opera is stocked 
with talented vocalists who have 
shown much professional growth 
in the interpretation of their in­
dividual characters. Their voices 
brought a positive reaction from 
the audience. This was not a 
performance of university caliber
— it was one of an opera company 
that had worked together for years 
in developing.a unique combina­
tion of talent and kinship.
In his role as Figaro, Tony 
Richards, a guest professional 
vocalist involved in both opera 
and musical theater, showed off
not only his vocal talent, but his 
acting skills as well. Although 
the opera involved the singing of 
all lines, Richards’ facial expres­
sions allowed the audience to feel 
the confusion when Master 
Almaviva questions him about a 
letter Cherubino had dropped in 
his Mistress’ room. Figaro went 
from confusion to amusement 
when he caught on 
to the . game 
Susanna and the 
mistress were play­
ing. One of 
Richards’ best 
scenes was when he 
hid in the garden to 
watch for Susanna’s 
meeting with his 
master. He com­
plained about 
Susanna and how 
he despised the women of the 
world.
Melinda Klump’s portrayal of 
Master Almaviva’s wife was both 
moving and hilarious. One felt 
sorry for Rosina when she sang of 
her husband’s loss of interest in 
her. She knew that he did not love 
her anymore and that he was 
pursuing relationships with the 
servants on the plantation. There 
was also a comedic side of Rosina, 
which emerged when she dis­
guised herself as Susanna and 
tried to escape from Cherubino’s 
grasp. Klump, a senior voice ma­
jor, performed well in showing 
Rosina’s determination to win her 
husband back. Although a so­
prano, Klump has an impressive 
vocal range. Her voice has angelic, 
“choir” qualities as well as a rich, 
deep quality possessed by many 
professional vocalists. It would 
not be surprising to see her name
in an opera company program one 
day.
Master Almaviva was played 
by Russell Franks, a guest profes­
sional opera singer. His deep voice 
aided him in bringing across 
Master Almaviva’s very mascu­
line presence. His voice would woo 
many women, but unfortunately, 
certain women on the plantation 
were not drawn to him. Franks 
was certainly funny when he 
displayed Master Almaviva’s dire 
need to womanize. This is seen 
when he attempts to take ad­
vantage of Susanna when she 
begins to feel faint.
Other talents in the show in­
cluded sophomore voice major 
Katy Shackleton 
as the energetic 
daughter of the 
gardener Anto­
nio and senior 
voice major 
Jacqueline 
Quirk as the de- 
termined 
Marcellina. 
Shackleton was 
very funny in her 
role as the ser­
vant girl, Barbarina. The audito­
rium rang with laughter as she 
sang about how nervous she was 
because she had lost the pin 
Master Almaviva asked her to 
present to Susanna. Her voice is 
very sweet and has much poten­
tial. Quirk showed her character’s 
scheming qualities effectively 
when she allowed Susanna to 
overhear the insults she made 
about her.
Although the opera’s cast is very 
talented, the voices and stage 
presence of two people enthralled 
the audience more than anything 
else. These two individuals were 
Kristin Donahue and Elisa Billey.
Senior voice major Kristin 
Donahue’s portrayal of Susanna 
goes beyond an opera viewer’s 
imagination. Donahue has a high 
vocal range that has a very inno­
cent quality. She did not hesitate 
in using her vocal attributes. Her
voice gave many indications of 
what sort of person Susanna was. 
She portrayed Susanna as a 
sweet, loyal woman who enjoyed 
a bit of fun and scheming at times 
when the end result would be 
satisfying. Her voice was beauti­
ful when she promised Master 
Almaviva that she would meet 
him at night in the garden for a 
rendezvous. Her uneasiness about 
the situation was seen when she 
couldn’t answer Master 
Almaviva’s questions correctly.
Donahue was also very expres­
sive in her movement across the 
stage. She was very natural and 
looked as if she had practiced 
every step she took to perfection.
It’s unfortunate that there was 
no dancing in the opera.
Elisa Billey, a junior voice ma­
jor, plays the role of the young boy 
Cherubino in The Marriage of 
Figaro. One might feel awkward 
in portraying a character of the 
opposite gender, but Billey 
showed no discomfort. She made 
her character seem like any 
lovesick adolescent male. Billey 
showed him to be a mischievous 
“rascal” who spent his time col­
lecting women’s hair ribbons, 
writing love songs, and wrapping 
himself around as many women’s 
waists as he could.
Billey’s clear voice informs us of 
Please see FIGARO, page L10
Nothing but 
praise can be 
given to the 
performance of 
The Marriage 
of Figaro.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan yg8Pra JurtroalCuga
^sanna (Tanya Stum) looks on while Marcellina (Melissa Horner) and Bartolo (John Stewart Furman) plot
0 sJop her marrage with Figaro.
burilM hPsureM2blatl8 yg8Pra JurtroalCuga
As part of a complicated plot, Susanna (Tanya Stum) hands a secret note to Almaviva (Russell Franks) at 
her wedding while the rest of the company looks on.

---------------------------------------------------

L6The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
It’s that time of year again....Joe Bob announces his 
1990 Drive-In nominees
The official nominees for the 
1990 Drive-In Academy Awards, 
better known as the “Hubbies.” 
Get a pencil, cause they’re 
humongous this year. And I’ve 
decided to make everyone eligible 
to vote, so zap me those ballots.
BEST FLICK
Basket Case 2, the continuing 
story of the horribly deformed, 
twisted, mutilated Siamese twin 
who lives in a picnic basket and is 
very angry about it, but has now 
learned to eat people’s faces off in 
kinder, gentler ways.
Brain Dead, the story of what 
would happen if a man decided to 
keep a whole lab full of pickled 
brains that used to belong to 
paranoid schizophrenics, so he can 
figure out how to stick incredibly 
long needles into the brains and 
turn looney people into perfectly 
respectable game-show hosts.
Darkman, the story of a scien­
tist who’s working on the ulti­
mate plastic surgery discovery — 
making skin in a test tube — but 
gets half his face blown off by 
some gangsters who like to collect 
human fingers in a box and so he 
has to learn to build synthetic- 
skin Mission: Impossible fake 
faces that last 99 minutes at a 
time.
Delta Force 2, proving once 
again that all it takes is one heli­
copter full of American kung-fu 
masters to solve any problem in 
the universe, including wiping out 
a South American drug dealer 
whose idea of a good time is to kill 
babies because their mothers don’t
man is ugly, the man is evil, and 
the man is in love.
Chuck Norris, in Delta Force 2, 
for cleaning out a mountain drug 
fortress surrounded by a hundred 
armed men and protected by a 
South American army equipped 
with heat-seeking helicopter- 
gunship missiles.
George C. Scott, in The Exorcist
III, a cop with a carp in his bath­
tub, who gets a little testy when he 
finds a 12-year-old kid with in­
gots driven into his eyes and his 
head cut off and a Jesus head 
made up like a black minstrel 
stuck on his shoulders where his 
head used to be.
Dylan McDermott, in Hard­
ware, as the techno trash collec­
tor.
Michael Rooker, in Henry: Por­
trait of a Serial Killer, as Henry, 
for saying “Guns are easy to get— 
I can make a phone call and get a 
gun — anybody can get a gun, 
Otis,” and “Oh, yeah. That’s right.
I stabbed her.”
Noel Peters, in The Invisible 
Maniac, as a nerdy psycho phys­
ics professor giving himself in vis- 
ible-man serum injections so he 
can sneak up on blonde cheer­
leaders and rip their blouses off.
Randy Quaid, in Martians Go 
Home, as a theme-music composer 
for TV game shows, who acciden­
tally summons billions of green­
skinned standup comics from 
outer space.
BEST ACTRESS
Riba Meryl, as Janis Joplin in 
Beyond the Doors, for porking up
for the role, shooting up with 
heroin, belting out a couple tunes 
Janis-style, and saying “I go out 
and make love to 25,000 people, 
and then I go home alone.” 
Catherine Carlen, in Chopper 
Chicks in Zombietown, as the 
leader of the Cycle Sluts, for say­
ing “You’re the Sluts! Try and act 
like it!”
Frances McDormand, as 
Darkman’s girlfriend, for saying 
“If you’re not going to kill me, I 
have things to do.”
Stacey Travis, in Hardware, as 
the blowtorch sculptress, for 
drinking Lactoplasm and de­
stroying the Mark 13 killer robot.
Deborah Foreman, in Lobster 
Man From Mars, as the damsel in 
distress, for saying “It’s all very 
simple! Bunny men from Nep­
tune have invaded Mars!”
Anita Morris, in Martians Go 
Home, as a talk-show shrink who 
keeps telling people they are hav­
ing “delusions” when they think 
they have Martians in their Hy- 
dro-Spa.
Hilary Shepard, in Peacemaker, 
as- the girl who doesn’t know 
whether to blow an alien’s head 
off or fall in love with him.
Roxanne Rogers in Punk Vaca­
tion, as the Head Mama Punker 
who has set up a Charlie Manson 
rock-and-roll party at an aban­
doned ranch out by Tehachapi.
Sandra Bogan, in Punk Vaca­
tion, as the revenge-minded pis­
tol-packing redneck daughter, 
who gets stripped down to her 
bra, tied to some railroad ties, 
and forced to listen to real loud
Patty Mullen as Frankenhooker— the first thing that ever grossed rUt 
42nd Street.
music while everybody else gets 
to dance.
BREAST ACTRESS
Ginger Lynn Allen, the porno 
star, in Back to Hollywood Boule­
vard, for being such a great ac­
tress that she successfully por­
trays a virgin.
Cynthia Bond, as the Devil 
Woman in Def By Temptation, for 
putting on her Christian Dior 
stockings with no hands, and for 
saying “Honey, I’ve given you 
something there’s no cure for.”
Patty Mullen, a former Pent­
house Pet of the Year, as 
Frankenhooker, for staggering 
down 42nd Street with suture 
marks all over her body and giv­
ing new meaning to the phrase
“Wanna date?”
Bo Derek, in Ghosts Can’t Do It] 
for having the courage to take 
four baths instead of her usual 
three.
Cynthia Brimhall, lead singer 
in Playboy’s Girls of Rock e 
Roll, in Guns, for singing two' 
lounge songs while dressed in a 
lace corset.
Devin Devasquez, in Guns, a 
Erik Estrada’s girlfriend in a 
leopard-skin leotard, for saying 
“Let me kill for you.”
Roberta Vasquez, in Guns, for 
showing off her two enormous 
talents by aardvarking in the 
desert on a motorcycle seat at 
sunset.
Dona Speir, three-time winner 
Please see JOE BOB, page L8
HgeP,g uPMtrak zPtu l tzPMt r( uUira
By MARK ROCES
Tartan Staffwriter
Written and illustrated by Larry 
Gonick, The Cartoon History of 
the Universe is a six volume car­
toon account of the universe, from 
the Big Bang to Alexander the 
Great. Originally a hard book to 
find, the bookstore shelves are as 
stacked with The Cartoon History 
as the universe is full of history. 
The book’s increase came just in 
time for the Christmas season, 
and those who found this under 
the tree should not have been too 
disappointed with what they re­
ceived.
Carl Sagan was right when he 
said that the first volume was a
— Book Review —
? ?? THE CARTOON HISTORY OF 
THE UNIVERSE. Tk claak 3r8Psp5 q 
sriPs errp lt uPMtrak (ari tug TPo 
Tl8o tr qeg^l8Rga tug 3aglt5
“delight.” Gonick’s book opens up 
with a bang—the Big Bang, that 
is. He fills the rest of the volume 
with the early and evolving forms 
of life that wandered the early 
world.
Like any cartoon, The Cartoon 
History is an easy one to read. It 
is likely that one will swallow the 
first hundred pages of this work 
with little trouble. This is because 
Gonick has done a wonderfully
entertaining job with the pre-his- 
toric opening. It would be reason­
able to expect the humor to only 
get better once more recognizable 
history is reached. It does, but the 
book changes in latter volumes.
What was once a delight to read 
might become a little taxing as 
one reads on. This is no fault of 
Gonick’s — let’s just say that his­
tory has an annoying tendency to 
repeat itself. This problem is 
easily remedied if one treats the 
book as a collection of short stories, 
which it is. Read a few pages 
every now and then, and the 
cartoon still retains its witty hu­
mor.
To call it a cartoon might not do 
it justice. Sure, it is in cartoon
form, but Gonick does seem to 
have his information straight. 
There’s no cutting out the facts 
just to bring about a funnier book
— Gonick has no need to do so. 
Certainly, it is an entertaining 
book, but as one reads on and 
laughs, one might just walk away 
learning a few new things.
Could it be possible to enjoy 
something for the sake of pure 
entertainment and somehow gain 
more from it? With Gonick, it is. 
The nice thing about The Cartoon 
History of the Universe is that it is 
funny because of its historical 
content, not despite it. There’s a 
lot about the world out there to 
laugh at; all one has to do is pick 
up this book. The rest is history.
Group Therapy for
ADULT CHILDREN 
OF ALCOHOLICS
now accepting new members 
for Spring Semester 1991
Call for interview 
Roseanne Hickey, Ph.D. or 
Glen Sherman, M.A. 
Counseling and Student Development Center x2922
Please go away.
Climbing Caving Kayaking Hiking Camping 
Sailing Mountain-biking Skydiving and more.
Learn how to participate in these activities 
year round with experienced 
Jk '( club members.
CMU Explorers Club
meetings: 
6:30 PM every Thursday 
Porter Hall 225c
Funded by your Activities Fee
BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE-IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
harvest the coca leaves fast 
enough.
Frankenhooker, the romantic 
story of a man whose fiancee gets 
Cuisinarted by a runaway 
lawnmower, and so he’s reduced 
to shopping for body parts on 42nd 
Street by selling crack that makes 
the heads of hookers explode.
Hardware, the best nucular- 
radiation twisted-metal jubilee 
since the original Mad Max.
Heniy: Portrait of a Serial Killer, 
first movie in history to get an X 
for “moral tone.”
Martians Go Home, the night­
mare about what would happen if 
the Martians invaded the world 
and they turned out to be standup 
comedians.
BEST ACTOR
Kevin van Hentenryck, in Bas­
ket Case 2, for making the second 
movie even after he died in the 
first one, for having even a more 
disgusting scar on the side of his 
body where Belial was cut off, and 
for slowly going crazy as he says 
“I just wanted people to think I 
was normal!”
Liam Neeson, in Darkman: The
THE COMICS.,.
16 Page Supplement!
by Bill Watterson
.. .will appear in next week’s issue 
of The Tartan in the form of a...

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991L7
Woody Allen’s Alice never lets loose
gy JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Business Manager
The first thing you should know about 
Woody Allen’s twentieth film Alice is that 
it has nothing to do with the Linda Lavin/ 
'Vic Tayback sitcom of the same name. 
Unfortunately, although it’s billed as a 
Icomedy, it is about as fanny as the TV 
show most of the time.
It’s not that bad a movie; it’s just that 
Allen, who wrote and directed Alice, 
never really cuts loose as much as he has
other movies.
Another surprise is that Allen doesn’t 
jnake his requisite appearance on the 
other end of the camera. Admittedly, 
there isn’t really a place to fit a traditional 
Allen character into the script, but I kind 
,fmissed him anyway.
Alice, played by Mia Farrow, is the 
picture-perfect upper-class housewife. 
She spends her days bumping around 
department stores and beauty salons, 
catching up on all the local gossip. Life is 
easy and carefree.
Then along comes the mystery man 
joe, played by Joe Mantegna. Alice meets
— Movie Review —
??? ALICE. FrrRk qeeg8 tgeeM tug Mtrak r( 
l8 UCCgaYselMM (liPek zril8 zur RgsPRgM 
Pt!M tPig tr ilpg l sul8og P8 uga eP(g5 
ytlaaP8o mPl wlaarz. Wrg ml8tgo8l. FPeePli 
9Uat. Lgkg cUpg. l8R qegs TleRzP85
Joe at the school where their children go; 
She is simultaneously attracted to Joe 
and overcome with guilt for having such 
unmarital feelings. Although reluctant 
at first, Alice decides to go after Joe, with 
a little help from the enigmatic Dr. Yang 
(Keye Luke). Dr. Yang’s medical tech­
nique involves a little hypnosis, some 
natural herbs, and — for lack of a better 
word — quite a bit of magic.
Yes, that’s right. Magic. Ghosts, fly­
ing, invisibility — it’s all in there. Alec 
Baldwin and Bernadette Peters put in 
quality appearances as supernatural 
beings who come to Alice’s aid. While it 
gave Allen room to put in some special 
effects, the magic element wasn’t really 
worth the effort.
Through Dr. Yang’s treatment, Alice 
begins to realize how shallow her life is 
and slowly decides it’s time to make a 
change. Finding out just what that entails 
is for me to know and you to find out.
Farrow gives a perfect performance in 
the title role —just the sort of personality 
you’d expect from a housewife who once 
aspired to be a nun — but the acting is 
solid all-around.
William Hurt gives one of the film’s 
best performance as Alice’s ambivalent 
husband. His idea of letting Alice have a 
career is to let her assist at a friend’s 
sweater store. You can’t help but hate 
his ignorance toward Alice’s plight.
Unfortunately, two of the film’s other 
great performances—Blythe Danner as 
Alice’s down-to-earth sister and Cybill 
Shepherd as Alice’s successful friend 
Nancy Brill — are wasted in useless 
token roles. Both characters seem like 
they were thrown into the movie to fill 
plot holes, and so that the plot subtleties 
could be explained to the slower viewers.
Another problem with Alice is Allen’s 
attempt to parody the upper-crust New 
York lifestyle. While it’s mildly amusing,
TaPl8 9liPee2­S;;O faPr8 JPstUagM 
Joe Mantegna flirts with Mia Farrow in Woody Allen’s latest film, Alice.
it comes off more as some sort of inside with a decent story and good acting, go 
joke between Allen and his friends, rather check Alice out. If you want the high- 
than as a serious attempt at humor. spirited comedy that established Allen’s 
If you want a mildly amusing drama history, there’s always Bananas.
Hev you! Come here....
Comedian Lew Schneider entertained students Saturday night in 
theSkibo ballroom with jokes about geeks, marriage, homophobia, 
New York, broken appliances, and just about everything else under 
the sun.
JelkurUMg!M Steel Magnolias 
Car,PRgM P8tPiltg g8tgatlP8ig8t
Living Colour’s funky 
tunes energize Mosque
Tk v1 cvv
Tartan Staffturiter
Every now and then you’ll find 
a band that’s fresh, new, and 
relatively unknown — then after 
several albums and much public 
attention the fans usually yell 
“Sell out! Sell out!” This is not the 
case with Living Colour, but after 
their January 24 performance at 
the Syria Mosque, I was convinced 
that the band had changed with 
the success of their multi-plati- 
num LP, Vivid, their opening gigs 
for the Rolling Stones, and the 
critical acclaim for their new al­
bum Time’s Up.
The 90-minute set by Living 
Colour’s Vernon Reid, Corey 
Glover, Muzz Skillings, and Wil­
liam Calhoun opened the eyes of 
those who had never seen the 
¡fondperform live. Guitar players 
to the audience probably had their 
tongues on the floor for a majority 
°fthe show, as guitar hero Reid 
Performed numerous solos that 
¡®nt smoke into the rafters and 
eft fans shaking their heads in 
^belief, wondering how a human 
eing could play notes on a guitar 
80 fast. Calhoun also got his 
- ance to thrill the crowd with a
— Concert Review —
LIVING COLOUR. qt tug ykaPl 
mrM'Ug elMt buUaMRlk 8Pout5
drum solo when other members 
of the band left the stage briefly.
The highlights of the show were 
the terse, funk-edged “Elvis is 
Dead” and the hard-driving 
“Type.” The two were linked to­
gether with an incredible transi­
tion produced by Skillings who 
showed off his finest slappin’ bass 
solo. Also setting the stage ablaze 
was the title cut off of Time’s Up, 
with its hardcore, Bad Brains 
influence and fierce rhythm. This 
particular tune typified the fine 
musicianship possessed by the 
bandmembers. Glover wailed into 
a short stint of “Amazing Grace” 
and put a soulful edge on the 
opening vocals of “Open Letter (to 
a Landlord).” Some of his wailings 
were a little overboard, but he 
displayed an incredible range that 
few men can rival.
The rest of the show stayed on 
the more hard-rockin’ side. Some 
of the funkier tunes from Vivid 
were left out of the show, such as 
Please see LIVING COLOUR, page L9
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Few plays allow an audience to 
get as close to the characters on 
stage as Steel Magnolias. In just a 
few hours, playwright Robert 
Harling brings you to a beauty 
shop in the Deep South — a sanc­
tuary for six local women. Here, 
you get to know these women over 
a period of several years, to see 
what they’ve become and how they 
have coped with their losses.
When the play begins, one of 
these women, Shelby, is getting 
married, and while she and her 
friends prepare themselves for 
this major event, they talk about 
all the little things that are going 
on in their lives.
The six characters share a 
strong friendship, even though 
their personalities seem to have 
little in common. Shelby is a 
young, sweet bride with an ide­
alistic conception of her future. 
She has fought an unusually se­
vere case -of diabetes for most of 
her life, and now it seems that 
things are turning around for her. 
Her mother, M’Lynn, tries to let 
Shelby live her own life, but has 
to use every ounce of her energy 
to not intervene when it looks like 
Shelby might hurt herself.
Truvy owns the local beauty 
shop, and she and her elderly 
friend Clairee share a deep love 
for a spicy secret or some hot 
gossip. Ouiser is the town’s 
abrasive cynic, who has been 
fighting an amusing battle with 
M’Lynn’s husband Drum for 
years. Annelle is new in town, 
and the audience watches her 
adjust to her new environment 
while her unfortunate past is 
slowly drawn out by the inquisi­
tive duo of Clairee and Truvy.
The conspicuous lack of any men 
in this play adds to its power. The 
scenes in the play always take 
place during a major event in one 
of the women’s lives, and one of 
the points Harling drives home is 
that these women have continu­
ally been failed by the. men in
— Theatre Review —
STEEL MAGNOLIAS. q srigRk lnrUt MP^ serMg (aPg8RM eP,P8o P8 l Milee 
crUPMPl8l trz85 ytlaaP8o hl8sk DugM8gk l8R HrnP8 FleMu5 qt tug 
JPttMnUaou JelkurUMg. EEE Dal(t q,g8Ug. flpel8R5 Jga(rail8sgM bUgMG
RlkM tuarUou yU8RlkM U8tPe wgnaUlak SO5 Dlee jESYVVVK (ra P8(railtPr85
their lives. The more tragic the 
event, the farther away the men 
seem to be.
If you see a play once and enjoy 
it, it’s often difficult to accept a 
different production of the same 
work, and comparisons are inevi­
table. Since I originally saw this 
play off-Broadway with a stellar 
cast, I can’t help but want to see 
the same production again. Most 
of the actresses in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse production did not live 
up to their predecessors, but the 
play still fared well overall.
As the emotional centerpiece, 
Shelby, Robin Walsh gave a 
charming performance. This role 
is difficult if only because she and 
Nancy Chesney (M’Lynn) must 
provide most of the drama while 
the others get the comedic lines. 
Walsh often bordered on being 
too syrupy with her lines, but 
nothing that would take away 
from the production as a whole. 
Chesney portrayed M’Lynn as a 
stem figure, which did detract 
from the play, mainly because by • 
comparison it made the caustic
character Ouiser seem more mild.
Dixie Tymitz gave an accept­
able performance in the role of 
Clairee, but most importantly, she 
delivered her hysterical lines at 
the climax of the play just beauti­
fully. Barbara Russell kept the 
audience laughing as Ouiser. With 
a lot of great lines, she shone in 
her role, but her greatest 
achievement was the way in which 
her character reluctantly showed 
the emotions beneath her cynical 
surface.
Shirley Tannenbaum, as Truvy, 
was the biggest disappointment 
in the production. While she was 
a far cry from ruining the play, 
she didn’t show enough of the 
flamboyantly Southern charac­
teristics that are essential to 
making Truvy a lively, funny
character.
On the other hand, the biggest 
surprise of the play was Cheryl 
Williams, who was just fabulous 
as Annelle. She certainly up­
staged her off-Broadway coun­
terpart, as well as Daryll Hannah, 
who took the role in the film ver­
sion. Annelle goes through the 
most dramatic character changes 
throughout the play, and Williams 
handled this responsibility with 
apparent ease. Williams didn’t 
even need the best lines to bring 
on laughs, she was hilarious even 
when she was just reacting to 
what the other characters were 
saying or doing.
This production also survived 
oh the sheer strength of its writ­
ing. Even when the actors seemed 
to deliver a few lines wrong, and 
there was no laughter when they 
might have expected it, Harling 
always provides another line and 
another try for the women 
onstage. So while Williams gives 
a strong argument to see the play, 
Harling gives the best reason of 
all: he wrote a great play.
When you don't know 
where to turn...
q Mga,Psg r( tug A8PtgR Flk 
r( qeegoug8k DrU8tk
•HELP'/'LINE255-1155
What the stars mean
Masterpiece 
Excellent 
??? Good 
?? Fair 
? Poor
STUDENT DISCOUNT
Philip Pclusi Mler8M r((ga oaglt Ml,P8oM tr MtURg8tM5 3gt tug P8tga8ltPr8leek lsselPigR 
reUigtaPs® ulPasUt l8R ageltgR Mga,PsgM (ra WUMt )Sj5;K ’mg8 l8R Frig8-
CQgak ulPasUt lCCrP8tig8t $8seURgM sr8MUetltPr8. MuliCrrP8o. sr8RPtPr8P8o. nerz Rak l8R MtkeP8o. 
“gMg8t krUa MtURg8t $1 tr agsgP,g krUa RPMsrU8t5 hrt ,lePR zPtu l8k rtuga r((ga l8R RrgM 8rt 
P8seURg l ulPasUt nk JuPePC JgeUMe ra yler8 ytkeg 1Pagstra5 f8g f^(raR Dg8tag yler8 r((ga ,lePR 
°8Rlk tuaU yltUaRlk ExOO tr VxOO l8R BxOO tr ;xOO J5m5
ylUPaage 9Pee KESYSEOO 
f8g f^(raR Dg8tag EjSYjKKO 
Dg8tUak $$$ mlee jKKYS;VO 
QPeelog y'Ulag mlee dNNYjBBO 
^^"v,g8P8oM l8R yU8RlkM5 ’hrt rCg8 yU8Rlk f^(raR yler8 r8ek-5 qCCrP8tig8tM 8rt lezlkM 8gsgMMlak
FgMtiragel8R mlee dNjYjjBO 
HrMM Jlap mlee NjjYSKKK 
mr8arg,Peeg mlee NBEYBKEO 
HrnP8Mr8 brz8 Dg8tag BddYOEOV
McKINSEY & COMPANY, INC.
Cambridge Systems Center
sraRPleek P8,PtgM sl8RPRltgM (ra RgoaggM P8 
DriCUtga v8oP8ggaP8o l8R DriCUtga ysPg8sg 
l8R turMg zur ul,g g^CgaPg8sg nUPeRP8o sriCeg^ sriCUtga MkMtgiM 
tr lttg8R l CagMg8tltPr8 l8R RPMsUMMPr8 r(
SYSTEMS CONSULTING OPPORTUNITIES
bUgMRlk. Wl8Ulak E;. S;;S 
B Ci
ypPnr qstP,Ptk Dg8tga 
Hrri VK
msLP8Mgk I DriCl8k P£ l8 $8tga8ltPr8le sr8MUetP8o (Pai t8lt MrgsPlePzgMYa8 Carnegi 
Mre,P8o (ra l narlR al8og r( CagMtPoPrUM DraCraltPr8M l8l. tr l iUs8 egMMga g^tg8t. 
8r8Yieeetlak or,ga8ig8t P8MtPtUtPr8M wrU8RgR P8 S;Ej. msLP8Mgk i. DriCl8k 8rz 
8lM Vd r((PsgM P8 EN srU8taPgM
bug DlinaPRog ykMtgiM Dg8tga zlM (rU8RgR P8 S;dV tr Car,PRg msLP8Mgk r(( PsgM 
larU8R tug zraeR zPtu t8g agMrUasgM ag'UPagR tr lRRaYgMM sriCeg^ tgsu8reroPsle PMMUgM5 
fUa zrap sr,gaM l narlR MCgstaUi r( lstP,PtPgM. (ari ul8RMYr8 rartrtkCio tr sagltP8o 
sr8sgCtUle MreUtPr8M tr lnMtalst CarnegiM P8 MkMtgiM l8R 8gtzrapP8o tgsu8rerok 5
wra turMg $8tgagMtgR P8 l MkMtgiM sr8MUetP8o CrMPtPr8. CeglMg lttg8R tug lnr,g CagMg8tltPr8 
wra turMg $8tgagMtgR $8 l TUMP8gMM q8lekMt CrMPtPr8. CeglMg sr8tlst mM ck88 Tg88ga P8 
rUa JPttMnUaou r(( $sg. VSEYVBSYSKSK. (ra (Uatuga P8(railtPr8
msLP8Mgk I DriCl8k. $8s5 PM l8 
v'Ule fCCratU8Ptk viCerkga
W

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
Joe Bob presents this year’s 'Hubbies
JOE BOB, from page L6
of the Breast Actress Award, in 
Guns, for running around in a 
halter top carrying a rocket 
launcher, and for saying “That’s 
it for me! I’m hitting the shower!” 
Shannon Wilsey, in The Invis­
ible Maniac, as Vicky the blonde, 
for saying “I need an A to gradu­
ate, and I’d be willing to do any­
thing.”
Isa Andersen, the demonic ex- 
wife from hell in Night Angel who 
plans to turn the whole world into 
sex-crazed zombies by posing for 
the cover of Siren, a high fashion 
magazine, and putting a lot of 
subliminal messages in there like 
“Have sex with the cleaning lady 
today.”
Morgan Fairchild, in Phantom 
of the Mall — she’s pouty, she’s 
sequined, she’s the evil mayor, 
and she’s wearing too much 
makeup!
BEST DIALOGUE
Steve Vinovich, in Back to Hol­
lywood Boulevard: “I don’t think 
a little thing like minor tissue 
damage should get in our way.” 
Annie Ross, in Basket Case 2: “I 
understand your pain, Belial, but 
ripping the faces off people may 
not be in your best interests.” 
Larry Buchanan, director of 
Beyond the Doors, for writing lines 
like “I know I didn’t need that 
second barrel, but who counts 
birdshot in a man’s chest? Rock 
and roll is dead. Long live rock 
and roll.”
Don Caifa, in Chopper Chicks 
in Zombietown, as the evil morti­
cian who buries the dead with the 
touching prayer “Why dwell on 
it?”
David Knell in Chopper Chicks 
in Zombietown: “Jeez, Dad, 
maybe if you don’t eat anybody, 
nobody’ll notice you’re a zombie.”
Brad Dourif in The Exorcist III: 
“I kill at random — no motive — 
that’s the fun.”
James Lorinz, in Franken- 
hooker: “After all, I’m not killing 
anybody. It’s the crack that’s 
gonna kill em. If they don’t wanna 
do it, they can just say no.”
John Lynch, the cocaine-wor­
shipper in Hardware: “It’s my 
heart—it feels like an alligator.” 
Clive Turner and Freddie Rowe, 
screenwriters on The Howling V: 
“There is an ancient Hungarian 
proverb — Check the one who 
looks innocent!”
Noel Peters, in The Invisible 
Maniac: “I’m injecting the serum 
into the bunny rabbit now” and “I 
was inexplicably drawn to the 
girl’s locker room.”
Terry Loughlin, in Killer: 
“Young and in love — makes me 
wanna throw up.”
Tommy Sledge, in Lobster Man 
From Mars, who inspects giant 
lobster tracks and says “It means 
that either he escaped, or he 
walked backwards from the hori­
zon to commit suicide in this 
bonfire.”
Patrick Macnee, as the outer- 
space crustacean expert, in Lob­
ster Man From Mars: “Their pur­
pose is clear — maybe not to you, 
but to me” and “You think you can 
kill an alien space bat with bul­
lets?”
Anita Morris in Martians Go 
Home: “A meatloaf in the shape of 
a tree is surprisingly festive.” 
Raymond Fusci, the shotgun- 
wielding geezer in Punk Vaca­
tion: “That girl hasn’t been the 
same ever since she joined that 
Chamber of Commerce.” 
Roxanne Rogers, in Punk Va­
cation: “You’re kinda cute for a 
parasite of humanity — maybe 
we’ll rape you before we cut your 
throat.”
BEST DIRECTOR
Frank Henenlotter, Basket Case
2 and Frankenhooker.
Adam Simon, Brain Dead.
Sam Raimi, Darkman.
Aaron Norris, Delta Force 2.
William Peter Blatty, The Ex­
orcist III.
Richard Stanley, Hardware.
John McNaughton, Henry: 
Portrait of a Serial Killer.
Kevin S. Tenney, Peacemaker.
BEST BAD GUY
Danny Nelson, in Blood Sal­
vage, as Jake the junkyard car 
mechanic who runs tourists off 
the road, drags their bodies into 
his barn, hooks them up to old 
carburetors and Chevy engines, 
and removes one organ at a time 
so he can sell em off to My Favor­
ite Martian.
Bill Pullman, in Brain Dead, as 
the chief brain doctor who talks 
about “the kinder, gentler lo- 
botomy.”
Brad Dourif and 18 million spe- 
cial-effects experts, as Chucky the 
Doll, in Child's Play 2, the de­
monic little freckle-faced talking 
serial-killer toy doll with the filthy 
mouth.
Larry Drake, in Darkman, best 
known as Benny the Reetard on 
LA. Law, as the gangster who 
says “Bring the Asian’s fingers.”
Billy Drago, in Delta Force 2, as 
the drug kingpin who wears a 
Japanese kimono all the time, for 
saying “Take her to my bedroom
— first give her a beautiful bath
— get rid of the baby.”
Brad Dourif, in The Exorcist III, 
as the Gemini Killer, a really mean 
psycho dude in a straitjacket and 
a rubber room who’s possessing 
the bodies of mental zombies and 
telling them to scissor off the 
heads of priests, nurses, and 
young children.
A wholesome family photo from the flick Chopper Chicks in Zombietown.
Erik Estrada in Guns, as the evil 
South American drug smuggler 
who is trying to lure Dona Speir 
to Las Vegas, trick her out of her 
sequined plunging-neckline party 
dress, and execute her in a casino 
showroom.
Chu Chu Malave and Richard 
Cansino, the transvestite hitmen 
in Guns.
Philip Davis, in The Howling V, 
as a Hungarian count who sum­
mons eight character actors with 
ugly red birthmarks on their arms 
to a castle that hasn’t been lived 
in for 500 years and shouts 
“Werewolf! The prophecy is ful­
filled!”
Duke Ernsberger, in Killer, as 
one of the handsomest serial-killer 
maniacs to be seen in a long time, 
for saying, “You see, I’m going to 
slice off bite-sized pieces of your 
body, and I’m going to eat them—
sometimes raw, sometimes cooked
— until you’re completely con­
sumed.”
S.D. Nemeth, in Lobster Man 
From Mars, as The Dreaded Lob­
ster Man, who looks like a Green 
Bay Packers lineman with claws 
doing Kabuki Theater.
Tom Towles, as Otis in Henry: 
Portrait of a Serial Killer, for 
saying “You want a beer?”, and as 
Cooper in Night of the Living 
Dead, for stealing the TV, barri­
cading himself in the cellar, slap­
ping his wife around, and scream­
ing “You bunch of yo-yos!” 
Robert Forster, as a killer alien 
in Peacemaker.
BEST FU
Electro-shock Fu and Lobotomy 
Fu in Brain Dead.
The flesh-eating, vomiting TV 
set in DefBy Temptation.
The mountain-climbing stunt 
in Delta Force 2.
Hell-gapes-open scene in Tfie 
Exorcist III.
The exploding hooker scene in,., 
Frankenhooker.
Elevator-door body slicing in 
Hardware.
Barbecued Billy Barty in Lo6- • 
ster Man From Mars.
Green Martians who dance like, 
the Pips and sing Macho Man in 
Martians Go Home.
Closeup of a guy cutting off his 1 
own face in Nightbreed.
The triple-explosion dynamite- 
shack car crash in Peacemaker.
All ballots must be submitted 
by March 15.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In movie critic of 
Grapevine, Texas and puts out 
this huge list every single year.
Student Senate
ELECTIONS
will be held January 29 & 30
in front of Doherty Hall
or in Grey Matter (in case of rain)
from 9 am to 5 pm
(Student Senate meetings have been 
moved to Wednesday at 8 pm)

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991L9
Charles takes charge of students’ minds
Hypothetical situation: it’s 6 
you’ve just come home after 
especially grueling day of 
lasses, and you want to relax 
¡rith a little mind-numbing plea­
se from the TV. But when you 
|jp the switch, what confronts 
arPe?."News, news, and more news. 
^0' scary. You flip the switch 
3in — an Andy Griffith repeat, 
no, no. Then you turn the dial 
channel 53 just as a catchy 
.ong starts playing: “There’s a 
new boy in the neighborhood; he 
¡ves downstairs and it’s under­
stood....” Scott Baio smiles into 
he camera. Ah, finally, a mindless 
itcom. Just what you wanted. 
Contented, you sit back and ab­
sorb the show for the next 30 
minutes.
This scene is played out daily 
,ycountless CMU students. Sure, 
t’s a stupid show, the argument 
oes, but what’s wrong with a 
¡ttle stupidity? We all need a 
¡ttle bit of pleasure and relax- 
tion, and Charles in Charge 
jrovides that. Besides, it’s only 
10 minutes long. What possible 
iarm can it do?
Obviously that’s a loaded 
uestion, for Charles in Charge is 
lore than just another dumb 
itcom. Behind it is a plot to set 
ack our country, nay, our world. 
Vho’s responsible? I don’t know, 
ut the plot to undermine our 
eneration seems pretty obvious.
THE LAUGH TRACK
by A. Franklin Wheeler
We’re caught when we’re at our 
weakest; we unwittingly open our 
minds and let the propaganda 
pour in. Charles and his friends 
are presented as normal college 
students, and we, in semi-con­
scious states, are ready to believe.
First, a little background. 
Charles in Charge premiered in 
1984 on CBS as a nice, not-too- 
offensive family sitcom. Scott Baio 
portrayed Charles, a 19-year-old 
college student who was hired as 
a “live-in helper” for the Pembroke 
family. He juggled his schedule 
between attending classes, 
watching the kids, and “hanging 
out” with his best buddy, Buddy 
Lembeck. He even had a steady 
girlfriend, Gwendolyn Pierce.
Good premise, promising show. 
Baio, fresh from his extended stint 
as Chachi on Happy Days, was still 
pretty popular with preteen girls, 
and the show would have been a 
hit — on any other network. This 
was during the beginning of CBS’s 
huge downswing from number 1
to number 3, and Charles faced 
tough competition from Highway 
to Heaven and The Fall Guy. So, 
after one season, Charles in 
Charge left the air a failure.
That should have been the end 
of the story, and it seemed that it 
was. But then about a year later, 
someone somewhere decided to 
revive a failed program, to produce 
new episodes of Charles in Charge 
for first-run syndication. This is 
where the weird stuff started 
happening.
First of all, not all of the origi­
nal cast members could be rehired. 
So a new family was given to 
Charles. That’s right, given to 
Charles. The Pembrokes moved 
out, the Powells moved in, but 
Charles stayed. He came with the 
house. Obviously, the Pembrokes 
escaped just in time.
Of course, Buddy was still 
around too, but there was some­
thing different about him. Some­
time between the two versions of 
the show, Buddy had grown in­
credibly stupid. Not just stupid, 
but more stupid than any human 
could possibly be. He could no 
longer grasp the most simple 
concepts necessary for survival. 
It was as if he came from another 
world entirely.
Getting it yet? Here’s the worst 
part: the Powells and all the other 
secondary characters act as 
though there’s nothing wrong.
Wilbur knew that a talking horse 
was out of the ordinary, Larry 
Hagman was a bit surprised to 
find Jeannie, but Charles in 
Charge is presented as normal.
But what does this mean to us? 
Let’s look at a recent episode....
Charles has a new girlfriend. 
He likes her because she’s “deep.” 
She’s “deep” because she talks 
about “intellectual” subjects, such 
as ancient Greek history. Mean­
while, Jamie, one of the Powells, 
is bummed because her boyfriend, 
a football player, says that she’s 
too “shallow.” Charles has the 
solution! His girlfriend can give 
Jamie lessons in how to be deep!
Soon Jamie has scorned the mall 
and is spouting off facts about 
Byzantine sculpture. But when 
her boyfriend and Charles’ girl- 
friend meet, all is lost. The intel­
lectual and the football player 
become an item.
Charles, reeling in disbelief, 
gives up “deepness” as a charac­
ter trait and attends Buddy’s 
“harem” party, consisting of 
Charles, Buddy, and about a dozen 
nameless sorority girls from the 
college. Confrontedby Jamie, who 
accuses him of being hypocritical 
and not deep at all, Charles 
pauses. He thinks it over, weigh­
ing guilt against pleasure. Finally, 
he just shrugs and is soon back in 
the midst of the fun, kissing any 
female who happens to be in his
But it’s all mindless fun, you say. It’s 
not real. No one takes it seriously. Of 
course not Not consciously. But a 
daily diet of this program for weeks, 
months, or (dare I say) years could 
have serious side effects.
path.
“Deep” and “shallow” are pre­
sented as polar opposites, with no 
middle ground. You’re either one 
or the other. Jamie gets “deep” 
and loses her guy. Our hero 
Charles stays happily shallow and 
ends up using women he doesn’t 
know to gain cheap pleasure. This 
is college life, we are told. The 
message: be “shallow,” use others, 
and you’ll lead a happy life. The 
implications are staggering.
But it’s all mindless fun, you 
say. It’s not real. No one takes it 
seriously. Of course not. Not 
consciously. But a daily diet of 
this program for weeks, months, 
or (dare I say) years could have 
serious side effects. Soon, without 
realizing it, you’re laughing — 
when the laugh track tells you to. 
You find yourself actually work- 
ingyour schedule around Charles 
in Charge. Charles will start to 
seem more and more real, and his
actions more and more logical. 
You start singing the theme song 
from memory: “Charles in charge 
of my days and my nights, Charles 
in charge of my wrongs and my 
rights.... I want Charles in charge 
of me!” And eventually he will be 
in charge. You will succumb and 
let Charles be your guide in life. 
And you won’t be alone. Millions 
of people worldwide will be acting 
in the same way. There will be 
nothing but confusion ... anarchy 
will rule ... the world as we know 
it will come to an end.
Please, for the sake of human­
ity, stop. Stop before it’s too late. 
Watch Andy Griffith for a while. 
He’s boring, but he’s safe (or at 
least he appears to be — maybe 
that’s a subject for a future col­
umn). You have been warned.
Tartan Staffwriter A. Franklin 
Wheeler is a junior professional 
writing major.
Awakenings overcomes its flaws and blossoms beautifully
Tk MIKE SHAPIRO
"artan Senior Staffwriter
I sat through Awakenings with 
amixture ofinterest and guarded 
uneasiness. The film is sown with 
;he seeds of a dozen Hollywood 
clichés, each swelling with ripe­
ness and ready to erupt its noxious 
uice onto the face of the storyline, 
iet, perhaps because of its basis 
m actual circumstances, the film 
exploits none of these venues, and 
he result is well worth seeing. 
However, it’s a close call. Too 
many hauntingly familiar themes 
ride the movie’s alternating surfs 
inspiration and gloom. Clinician 
tfalcom Sayer (Robin Williams) 
)laying ball with statufied 
incephalitics in a determined 
attempt to “reach” them echoes 
ilms like Crazy People that teach 
us that love transcends all, secu- 
ar trifles like neuroscience not 
withstanding; grim-faced resis­
tance to the potential resistance 
¦o political resurrection of 
atatonic Leonard (Robert 
3eNiro) via experimental L-Dopa 
reminds us that scientists are by 
nature evil and uncaring. Sayer’s
— Movie Review —
???? AWAKENINGS. q MePoutek 
U8raturRr^ Rrstra lttgiCtM tr agG
eglMg uPM CltPg8tM (ari tugPa P8tgaG
8le CaPMr8 — l ,gak alag RPMglMg 
p8rz8 lM MeggCP8o MPsp8gMM5 ytlaG
aP8o HrnP8 FPeePliM. Hrngat 1ghPar. 
l8R WUePg Ll,8ga5 1PagstgR nk Jg88k 
mlaMulee5
struggles to acquire financing for 
his medical crusade highlight the 
tautology that money is of course 
the root of all evil and that we’d 
all be happier penniless, or, bet­
ter yet, dead.
But, come springtime, these 
buds fail to bear their hackneyed 
fruit, and leave the film faintly 
pockmarked rather than crippled. 
Between the convincing perfor­
mances of Williams, DeNiro, and 
Julie Kavner (of Simpsons fame), 
and with a shard of at least im­
plied hope amongst its tortuous 
pathos, Awakenings manages to 
overcome its flaws and blossoms 
on its own.
When Robin Williams pulls up
for a job interview at Bainbridge 
Hospital, he might as well be 
coming straight from Welton 
Academy of Dead Poets Society. 
While the timid Dr. Sayer exhib­
its none of his cinematic 
counterpart’s passionate zeal, 
both films are opposite sides of a 
coin that’s increasingly rare in 
today’s cinematic wasteland — 
an urge to cherish every moment 
of life before it slips away.
Granted, the delivery is a bit 
more grim here. Leonard’s pain­
ful Flowers for Algernon-style 
regression from a miraculous re­
covery to cognitive paralysis chills 
us more than it compels us to 
frolic with joie de vivre. One is 
reminded of rock star David St. 
Hubbins, perched at the grave of 
Elvis in This is Spinal Tap, re­
marking that it offers “too much 
fucking perspective.” It’s a mor­
bid affair, and even the intro­
verted Sayer’s metaphorical 
awakening to a more fulfilling 
and outgoing lifestyle is too near 
the movie’s end, and too salty 
with desperation, to hoist our 
spirits any.
It’s clear that DeNiro’s going to
It’s clear that DeNiro’s going to win 
an Academy award for this one, but 
it’s not apparent whether it’ll be for 
Best Actor or Best Special Effect.
win an Academy award for this 
one, but it’s not apparent whether 
it’ll be for Best Actor or Best Spe­
cial Effect.
His wild convulsions and par­
oxysms are convincing enough to 
make a neurologist grope for a
prescription sheet. The acting is 
across-the-bar superior, and even 
the music is reasonably atmo­
spheric.
Penny “Laverne” Mar-shall’s 
direction is artful and effective. 
It’s just a pity that all this talent
is directed towards making us 
feel so awful.
Awakenings is clearly intended 
to be a positive ode to the splen­
dor of life and a poignant reminder 
of how precious and few our days 
are. And to that extent, I applaud 
its philosophic bent. But let’s face 
it: it’s bloody depressing, and un­
less there’s someone you’re keen 
on having cry on your shoulder, 
this isn’t the place to look for a 
pick-me-up. Definitely see 
Awakenings, but consider spend­
ing another five bucks and pro­
ceeding directly afterwards to go 
catch Home Alone.
Want to:
See movies for free, listen to records, watch 
TV, read books, see plays, and have your 
opinion printed in over 7,000 papers?
Then write for Diversions.
Meeting tonight, 9 pm, Tartan office.
Living Colour energizes Mosque
-IVING COLOUR, page L7
“What’s Your Favorite Color” and 
‘Which Way to America.” The 
crowd didn’t seem to mind the 
more straight-forward rock cn roll 
approach taken by the band, since 
•he Pittsburgh music scene seems 
;o be overrun by bands playing 
plain rock ‘n roll. However, the 
tend offered an interesting pre­
lude to “Glamour Boys” that used 
a heavy reggae influence. Also, in 
-his time of war, the band dedi­
cated “Fight the Fight” to those 
who are fighting in the Persian
JUlf.
Syria Mosque, as a site for this 
’how, allowed some of the energy 
TO Living Colour to be lost.
1 tany of the seats on the sides of
some validity. I guess being prevalent today and I’m sure that 
dubbed as the black Rush isn’t so will be true for the future, even if 
bad. The origins of what made they do put out more than 16 
Living Colour special are still albums.
were empty, and people 
Were pretty much restricted to 
¦neir small seating area during 
- e entire show. The atmosphere 
such a small place encourages 
crowd to jump right into the 
"U5*ic instead of standing in one >lace.
In a review of Time’s Up, Bob 
ack ofSP/iVmagazine quoted a 
}uddy who called Living Colour a 
black Rush.
At first I couldn’t believe that 
'iving Colour’s stylistic fusing of 
r°ck, metal, funk, hardcore, and 
|az^ could be directly compared 
I Push’s music. However, af- 
the show, I thought that 
atement just might have had
Community Outreach Tax Assistance
offers seminars and 
group return 
preparation for 
businesses, 
farms, and 
individuals. 
IRS offices 
will give 
you more 
information
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM 
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
t’’s’on ecll’k 
All you can eat only— $6.95 
Friday & Saturday 5-9:00 
p.m.
Sunday 12:00-3:00 p.m.
China Inn Restaurant
For take out call:
621-6199 
&L m
Daily Lunch Special
• one entree over rice •
• with chefs special soup •
• and served with tea •
• and fortune cookie 0
0 only — $3.79 °
4609 Dg8tag q,g5.
h5 flpel8R2yulRkMPRg qagl 
’lsarMM (ari 3Pl8t vloeg-
PITTSBURGH FLMVIAKERS
THE MEDIA ARTS CENTER
? ???Q‘A BRILLIANT VISION.
- Jami Bernard. A’BY' YORK POST
Ibugr
q8 raPoP8le CratalPt r( tug nartugaM Ql8 Drou nk Hrngat qetil85
$O9h 1qc: and 1vHvL 3$Tyfh pMg^tp0 egiMlog Uvoi sty,tylPvtb 
uhgoht28J 19vbsgbPaPegt1 starring b$m Hfb9 and JqAc H9:y 
iUMPs nk 3qTH$vc :qHv1 '¡ruin by WAc$qh m$bD9vcc CarRUsg!- n, cA1$TfvLvh 
directed bv HfTvHb qcbmqh hemdale
0 / 8iee88PPF(PQPDz^“PLP8 qee!4—PPLrt88! / JuE S ORTO nOap3(O
NOW THROUGH FEBRUARY 7th
Filmmakers at the Fulton
The Fulton-Annex /171 Q70H101 Sixth Street, Downtown Tl/ \.mJ / UU

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991
Explore the origins of madness through Shade
Circa 1975, Steve Ditko, the 
man who gave life to such legends 
as Spiderman and Dr. Strange, 
created a character called Shade 
the Changing Man. Shade’s comic 
lasted only eight issues before it 
was cancelled, and for years the 
character remained in limbo. 
Under the skilled guidance of 
relative newcomers to the comic 
book genre, a new version of Shade 
the• Changing Man is currently 
gracing comic book shelves.
Shade assistant editor Tom 
Peyer describes Shade's writer 
Peter Milligan’s work as “a dis­
torted travelogue through the 
icons andnightmares of American 
society as it exists in the real 
world.” This is essentially the 
premise of the book.
The characters presented in 
each issue are intricate tools used 
by writer Milligan to construct a 
vivid portrait of America’s psyche. 
If Shade is the paintbrush for 
Milligan’s work, then it’s the 
theme of madness which gives 
color and form to Milligan’s sin­
ister painting.
Shade makes one think about 
the origins of madness. There’s a 
part in all of us that we would like 
to deny, a dark recess in the rear 
of our heads which contains the 
dust we’ve swept underneath the 
proverbial rug, the fragments of 
our lives.
These are highly reflective 
fragments, sharp pieces of a 
shattered dreams that would re­
flect phantoms of despair, guilt, 
and insecurity, were they not se­
questered in the black abyss of 
the back of your head. In the rest 
of your brain, the Windex that is 
rationalization wipes clean the 
aberrations that stain life in or­
der to tailor a mind capable of 
functioning in the real world.
Madness can be a dangerous 
thing if left unattended. As time
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
goes by, the wreckage of aborted 
and ugly thoughts begins to ac­
cumulate in the back of your head. 
Soon the alcove can hold no more 
and the wall between the alcove 
and the rational mind bursts.
Blindly, the toxic waste of the 
soul floods your head and dissolves 
the pillars of rational thought. 
Secret thoughts and tortures fly 
free over the infinite wreckage to 
join hands and feet, forming the 
crazy quilt called madness. And 
then, as is sometimes the case, 
the quilt may choke the heart as 
an act of vengeance, or burn the 
soul, as the surface of the mad- 
ness-quilt is highly reflective 
when exposed to light.
In Shade’s world, madness 
seems to have found some sort of 
concrete form. It is no longer an 
abstract concept, but seems to 
serve as potent fodder for Shade’s 
arch-nemesis The American 
Scream.
The American Scream is the 
living manifestation of insanity. 
He looks like a hybrid of Uncle 
Sam and the Grim Reaper, and he 
has the ability to make your worst 
nightmares come true.
But these are not nightmares 
in the conventional sense; they 
are the nightmares of shame, 
guilt, and hate. Shade is essen­
tially a super-powered psychia­
trist, who, with the ability to make 
thought into reality, deals with 
America’s mental diseases.
Therein.lies the irony of Shade,
for there is no mental disease; 
rather, what he confronts are ugly 
truths. Obsession, racism, su­
perficiality, greed, and apathy are 
themes with which the book has 
already dealt with in the short 
span of eight issues. Shade’s 
struggle is against the symptoms 
of these core diseases.
Shade never solves any real 
problems. He simply confronts 
and defeats the distorted, physi­
cal manifestations of the truth 
created by the American Scream. 
The net result of their confronta­
tions is zero, but along the way 
the book sheds light on fascinat­
ing, somber issues of human na­
ture.
Perhaps the central implication 
of Shade is that madness is the 
missing piece in our lives. Instead 
of rejecting it, we should confront 
and embrace the ugliness in all 
our hearts. This is essentially the 
focus of Milligan’s work.
The hallmark of the book is the 
prose itself. Every issue is a stark, 
intricate sculpture of words. Im­
ages like “I sit up, roll round, lie 
down. It’s no good. My mind won’t 
stay inside my head. My mind is 
like a barge in the dark, waiting 
for a place to dump its garbage. 
My mind is moving across the 
filthy mud graves like a smell, 
like the wind. Like squalls of lit­
ter in the wind....” Each issue is 
laced with striking images such 
as this.
One storyline asks the disturb­
ing question, “Who killed JFK?” 
Milligan’s answer is interesting 
food for thought. A man obsessed 
with finding the answer poses this 
question to the ghost of his 
daughter. She answers, “The king 
is a god. The tribe makes him a 
god, but they’re scared that his 
divine powers will desert him and 
the tribe. Keeping the gods on the 
tribe’s side is a major concern. So
FIGARO, from page L5
all the pain and pleasure 
Cherubino feels around women 
and how much he loves the oppo­
site sex. Billey portrayed 
Cherubino best in the scene where 
Cherubino disguised himself as a 
girl and is tried to avoid Rosina 
and Susanna. Cherubino timidly 
hid his face behind a bouquet of 
flowers and shifted back and forth 
to evade the two women’s view.
The vocalists are in fact an im­
portant part of an opera produc­
tion, but if it weren’t for another 
group of individuals, there would 
be no such thing as opera. This 
major group is the orchestra.
The orchestra opened up the 
performance with the Overture 
toThe Marriage of Figaro. The 
overture itself involved much co­
operation between the string
players, the brass, the woodwinds, 
and the percussion. Orchestra 
members were very alert to what 
was happening on stage, which 
allowed for smooth transitions in 
the music. The orchestra played 
with much emotion. Evidently, 
the orchestra possesses the same 
professional qualities that the 
vocalists have.
There was only one flaw in The 
Marriage of Figaro production — 
the stage was not large enough. 
Although the opera was very pro­
fessionally done, the beautiful 
scenery and props would have 
had more of an impact on a larger 
stage.
There is a way to acquire a 
larger stage for the cast of The 
Marriage of Figaro. Perhaps the 
Music Department will take a step 
forward and someday introduce
Your United Way investment 
pays big dividends for people in 
our community all year long.
Thank you for your generosity.
United Way
The best investment 
in your hometown
WE’RE MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
/ JaP,ltg mlPenr^ Hg8tle555EV urUa lssgMM / AJy. 19c. f,ga8Pout cgttgaM
Ros’deat & f((Psg yUCCePgM / JurtrsrCPgM/ JlspP8o l8R yuPCCP8o / JlMMCrat JurtrM. gts5555/ TUMP8gMM DlaRM / wqX yga,Psg
We specialize in packing and shipping computers worldwide_______
JrMtle TUMP8gMM l8R DriiU8PsltPr8 yga,PsgM
AM1L BOXES ETC. USA*
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET PICK-UP SERVICE AVAILABLE
CONVENIENTL Y LOCATED NEAR FORBES A VENUE & CARNEGIE MUSEUM
WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THE UNFOLDING EVENTS 
IN THE MIDDLE EAST, AND WE ARE HERE FOR YOU.
CARNEGIE MELLON INTERFAITH COUNCIL
Father Bob English, Chair 
Roman Catholic Oratory, 681-3181
Cindy Goodman-Leib, Vice Chair 
B'nai B'rith Hillel, 621-8875
Rev. James B. Miller, Secretary 
United Campus Ministry, 682-1051
after a period of time the god-king 
is slain, before his divinity wanes. 
JFK was the American god-king. 
America made him. America 
slayed him.”
The writing is complemented 
by the art team of Chris Bachalo 
and Mark Pennigton. The art has 
more of a realistic feel to it then 
most other comic art. It adds a 
sense of balance to a book whose 
roots are firmly entrenched in the 
abstract. The pencil work com­
bined with the color art add to the 
manic-depressive flavor, creating 
a remarkably satisfying comic 
book.
COMING COMICS
The Comic Buyers Guide this 
week announced some interesting 
news for the months to come. 
Marvel Comics has announced 
that starting this summer there 
will be two, count ’em, two,X-Men 
titles. The current book, The Un­
canny X-Men, which has been 
published for more than twenty- 
five years, will continue to be 
written by veteran mutant writer 
Chris Claremont with pencils by 
While Portacio, whose previous 
work includes The Punisher.
The new book, titled X-Men, 
will mercifully be in the one dol­
lar standard format. The book 
will feature the cast of Jean Grey, 
Beast, Wolverine, Storm, Gam­
bit, Forge and Professor X. Art­
work will be supplied by the 
amazing Jim Lee, whose beauti­
ful work currently graces Un­
canny X-Men.
DC Comics is planning another 
crossover series entitled Arma­
geddon 2001. The story involves 
the search for the mystery hero 
who will one day become 
mankind’s greatest enemy (oooh!).
And one final note regarding 
Batman II — Warner Brothers 
has announced that Tim Burton
­S;;S 1D DriPs“M $8s5!! 
Shade, the changing man, probes the deepest areas of the pysche.
will direct the sequel and that the 
script will be written by the au­
thor of Heathers, Dan Waters. 
Warner Brothers promises a “an 
entertaining story that’s bound 
to entertain audiences beyond 
their wildest imaginings!” Can’t 
wait.
Shade the Changing MaiTis!;’ 
published by DC Comics. !
All comics are courtesy of Phan-! 
tom of the Attic.
Tartan Senior Staffwriter 
Waseem Hussain is a junior biol­
ogy major.
CMU opera debut enthralls audience
this group to a larger audience.
Broadway waits for those who 
wish for fame. Hollywood agents 
wait with bated breath for new 
performers. And the Metropoli­
tan Opera waits for the talented 
vocalists and orchestra members 
of the CMU Music Department. 
It’s never too early to pack those 
suitcases....
The SCS Undergrad Summer 
Resume Book
will be assembled early this semester.
Any Sophomore OR Junior
(or senior who is looking for summer employment prior to entering
grad school)
who is registered as a Math-CS Major
(or officially registered double major)
can submit a resume to be included in this year's book.
The deadline for submission is FEB. 1
This is a hard deadline; absolutely NO 
resumes will be accepted after FEB. 1
Applications (which must be returned with the resume) 
are available outside the SCS Undergraduate Office
Wean 6126 
and can be returned there.
Remember, they are due back by Feb.l 
Questions to mjs@cs.cmu.edu
h

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 28 January 1991 |_11
Thursday, January 31
The Unbelievable Truth
Imagine, if you will, that the stunningly handsome 
stranger who’s just rolled into town is: a) fresh out of 
prison; b) a master mechanic; c) the local ingenue’s 
love interest; and d) the convicted murderer of said 
ingenue’s best friend’s older sister and father. This 
might sound like the plot of a half-baked after-school 
special, but The Unbelievable Truth is actually an 
intriguing, highly watchable film that almost seems 
to hunt for cult status and an otherworldly feel.
Newcomer Adrienne Shelly is innocently charm­
ing as Audrey, the young aimless woman from Long 
Island who becomes a highly-paid model. Her perfor­
mance seems especially carefree when compared 
with the intense, Hunk-o-Rama approach adopted by 
leading man Robert Burke. Burke’s virginal inten­
sity carries the film through its admittedly thin plot.
The Unbelievable Truth is an enjoyable bit of fluff 
that aspires to some respectable dramatic heights. 
Although it may not always reach them, the attempts 
and the accompanying artistic pretensions are fun to 
watch. It’s worth the buck.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, February 1
Bill & Ted’s Excellent 
Adventure
The Wyld Stalyns are coming back to 2210, after 
sellout crowds last year. Keanu Reeves and Alex 
Winter star in this bodacious comedy about two 
dudes from San Dimas destined to become world 
leaders. The future is threatened when Ted’s father 
lays down the law — if Ted doesn’t pass his history 
class, he’ll be sent to military school. That would 
mean the end of the Wyld Stalyns, Bill and Ted’s 
band, and the music which will shape the civilization 
of the future. Only the final history project stands 
between future peace and a most heinous fate. (Does 
the situation sound familiar?)
; George Carlin is Rufus, who gets sent from the 
future to help Bill and Ted ace the project by showing 
them how to travel back in time. Napoleon and 
Ghenghis Khan are among the historical figures Bill 
and Ted meet as they dial their way back and forth 
through time in a futuristic telephone booth. Jane 
Wiedlin, guitarist in the all-girl group the Go-Go’s, 
;makes a cameo appearance as Joan of Arc.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, February 2
Child’s Play 2
Sure, the evil Chucky doll was charbroiled and 
;hacked into several pieces by the end of the original 
[Child’s Play, but you can’t honestly think that’s going 
to stop him from hunting down his victims. With the 
help of some unsuspecting corporate researchers 
who rebuild Chucky in the hopes of finding out what 
went wrong, the criminal Charles Lee Ray comes 
back to life inside the doll. His goal in Child’s Play 2 
is the same as in the first one: to find young Alex and 
possess his body. This time, however, Alex is hiding 
out in a foster home with a couple of parents who are 
scary enough without bringing Chucky into the pic­
ture. Child’sPlay 2 will probably give you more laughs 
than screams, although the ending is chock-full of 
repulsively gooey special effects.
qt j. d.SO.SE
Sunday, February 3
Clash of the Titans
Can’t get enough of heart throb Harry Hamlin, 
ak.a. Michael Kuzak of L.A. Law? Well, how about 
seeing him parading about in a toga, wielding a 
sword, and riding white flying horses? No, this isn’t 
some sort of kinky fantasy, it’s that old movie hit, 
Clash of the Titans. Hamlin stars as Greek hero Per­
seus, son of Zeus, who fights for the life of Androm- 
eda, who’s to be sacrificed to the monstrous Kraken. 
This movie makes the Sinbad flicks look like chopped 
liver. Oh, and that guy Lawrence Olivier makes an 
appearance as Zeus. But the real reason to watch is 
to see all those dated special effects, as Perseus fights 
such monsters as the Kraken and Medusa. Besides, 
this is Harry Hamlin running around in a sheet.
At 7, 9:30,12
% ALISON GREEN, TERRI KASH, MARK 
ttOCES, & MICHAEL T. ROSE
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming episodes 
of Carnegie Mellon’s favorite TV 
shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Frasier’s reading 
Dickens aloud, while Rebecca wal­
lows in self-pity.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. Wed­
nesday at 9 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Not 
being shown due to a Pitt basketball 
game.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). A condemned 
murderer has only hours to live, and 
only one man can clear him. Unfortu­
nately, that man dies before he gets a 
chance to. Tough luck.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL-AIR. 
Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Not being shown due to a special 
airing of Unsolved Mysteries. It’s 
February sweeps time, gang.
L.A. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). A soldier’s on trial 
for not shooting a civilian in Panama 
when ordered to; a haunted house 
provides an interesting case for C.J.; 
Brackman gets caught up in his senior 
partner status; and Becker and 
Roxanne part ways.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday at 9 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Murphy helps 
out Miles, who has an annoying secret
admirer. (Repeat)
QUANTUM LEAP. Friday at 8 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Not being 
shown due to The Main Event.
SEINFELD. Wednesday at 9:30 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Elaine’s father 
still dislikes that darn suede jacket! 
(Postponed from last week.)
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 8 
pm, channel 53 (Fox). Classic romance 
is turned on its hypothetical ear as 
Marge and Homer recall their years 
of courtship.
THIRTYSOME THING. Tuesday 
at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Hope 
knows something about Susannah 
that may hurt Hope’s friendship with 
Gary. (Repeat)
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 pm, 
channel 4 (ABC). Cooper tells Tru­
man the tragic tale of his former FBI 
partner and Catherine Martell con­
fides a secret to an astonished Pete.
THE WONDER YEARS. Wednes­
day at 8 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Not 
being shown due to a Pitt basketball 
game.
Special Programs 
AMERICAN MUSIC AWARDS.
Monday at 8 pm, channel 4 (ABC); 
The public picks their favorite music 
stars. Keenen Ivory Wayans is the 
host. Featuring Gloria Estefan, Ala­
bama, Jon Bon Jovi, the Fresh Prince,
Free Tickets!
.. .BECAUSE YOUR LIFE DEPENDS ON IT!
This Thursday, 7:30 pm 
Showcase Cinemas West
Just stop by The Tartan of­
fice today and pick up your 
free pair of tickets. But 
hurry, there are only 25 pairs.
sty,y,,,,,y,,,s
^jKAUDITIONS
SINGERS • DANCERS • INSTRUMENTALISTS 
SPECIALTY ACTS • TECHNICIANS/WARDROBE
LP8oM JarRUstPr8M. tug zraeR“M 7S CarRUsga r( g8tgatlP8ig8t. PM 
ureRP8o lURPtPr8M (ra tug S;;S MglMr8 lt L$h3y $ycqh1.
DP8sP88ltP. fuPr5 q ,laPgtk r( CrMPtPr8M lag l,lPelneg l8R l tal,ge 
(gg zPee ng ClPR tr giCerkggM zur iUMt tal,ge irag tul8 EKO iPegM 
tr tug Clap5
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
FgR8gMRlk. Wl8Ulak NO. S;;S
JrP8t Jlap Dreegog
wPaMt werra crnnk. clzag8sg 9lee
EYN C5i5 yP8ogaM
NYV C5i5 1l8sgaM. $8MtaUig8tlePMtM 
yCgsPletk qstM
wra lRRPtPr8le P8(railtPr8 sleex
LP8oM $Mel8R v8tgatlP8ig8t 1gCe5 KSN2N;dYKjOO 
LP8oM JarRUstPr8M dOO2KVVYKVjV 
L$h3y $ycqh1 / L$h3y 1fm$h$fh / DqHfFSh1y 
3Hvqb qmvH$Dq / Dqhq1q“y Ffh1vHcqh1 
­LP8oM JarRUstPr8M
Larry Gatlin, the Judds, A1 B. Sure!, 
The Pointer Sisters, MC Hammer, 
New Kids on the Block, INXS, Poi­
son, Vanilla Ice, Reba McEntire, and 
Bell Biv DeVoe.
A CLOSER LOOK. Weekdays at 
12:30 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Pre­
miere of a news/discussion type show 
with Faith Daniels.
GEORGE BURNS’ 95th BIRTH­
DAY PARTY. Friday at 10 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). Celebrating a man 
who gets funnier as he gets older. 
Featuring Richard Lewis, Rita 
Rudner, Bob Saget, Carl Reiner, Steve 
Allen, Milton Berle, Red Buttons, Ben 
Vereen, Ann-Margret, Melissa 
Manchester, and Kenny Rogers.
HARRY AND THE HENDER­
SONS. Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 
53 (WPGH). A friendly monster visits 
an average family. The mediocre
movie that inspired the brand-new 
mediocre TV series. Starring John 
Lithgow, Melinda Dillon, and Don 
Ameche.
THE MAIN EVENT. Friday at 8 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). A wrestling 
spectacular, featuring such luminar­
ies as Hulk Hogan, Tug Boat, 
Earthquake, Dino Bravo, Sergeant 
Slaughter, Hacksaw Jim Duggan, 
Legion of Doom, and Orient Express.
THE MOVIE AWARDS. Wednes­
day at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Another 
awards show. Kirstie Alley and Robert 
Townsend host this one, which lets 
the movie-going public pick their fa­
vorite films. Featuring Danny Aiello, 
Tony Goldwyn, Walter Matthau, and 
Lily Tomlin.
Compiled by 
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
FtsN FREE DfrsvfHy
Specially Pizzas
Pbgguh 2Mg8 vbhuh vouve vgJJ1U9u
PEPPERONI HOTPEPPERSPORK TOPPING MUSHROOMS
HAM OLIVESGROUND CHUCK PINEAPPLE
BACON ANCHOVIESONIONS EXTRA CHEESEGREEN PEPPERS THICK CRUST
1rUneszz2bFf wrUa ytla JPzzlMYf8g crz JaPsg 
SO" SV"
DuggMg5555555555555555yd5V;5555555555555 y1S5V;
1 brCCP8o5555555555 ;5Vd555555555555 SE5;;
E brCCP8oM55555555SO5VB 5555555555555 SV5V;
N brCCP8oM55555555SS5Vj5555555555555 SK5;N
V brCCP8oM55555555SE5VK55555555555555 SB5V;
K brCCP8oM55555555SN5VV 55555555555555 18.99
yP8oegM
D8ggMg 555555555555555yK5V; 555555555555555 yB5V;
1 brCCP8o555555555 j5Vd555555555555555 d5;;
E brCCP8oM55555555 B5VB55555555555555 SO5V;
N brCCP8oM55555555 d5Vj55555555555555 SS5;;
4 brCCP8oM55555555 ;5VK55555555555555 SN5V;
K brCCP8oM 5555 10.44 55555555555555 14.99
bFf wrUa ytla JPzzlM DOUBLEZZ
$12.45 S17.49Deluxe...................................
K bfJJ$h3y wfH b9v JH$Dv fw V 
JDJJv$$fh$5 JfHL bfJJ$h35 mAy9Hffmy5fh$fhy 0 3Hvvh JvJJvHy
Super Deluxe ......................
; bfJJ$h3y wfH b9v JH$Dv fw K 
JvJJvHfh$5 JfHL bfJJ“h35 mAy9Hffmy53HfAh1 D9ADL5 fh$fhy5 3Hvvh JvJJvHy5 niACK fc$Qvy5 9fb JvJJvHy 4 vX!Hq D9vvyv
Vegetarian.............................
mAy9Hffmy5 fh$fhy 0 3Hvvh JvJ°£Hy
Pepperoni Supreme
bH$J$v JvJJvHfh$ P vXbHq D9vvyv
Diet dO"ONLY)....................................Single S7.47
FovsgM PtilPtgFk i)FeyttiFk dyUUb ,g,,gyF wROwRaf A8uHp w8Oqca a nuzJcauJ H2ccacOPIIUNAL WPPINGS PINCAPPLF q HOT PFPPEP5
LUNCH TIME SPECIAL yN5;;
.12.45 17.49
Big 12"Subs
Fg Offer Four Kinds of Delicious 
Sub Sandwiches!
/$bqc$qh 4Hfqyb Tvvw Y9qm YmvqbTqcc
Each sub sandwich is mado from Iresh toasted Duns loaded with quality meals and cheese — 
ovunbaked Y then topped with lettuce, sliced tomatoes, onions and your choice ol mayonnaise or Italian dressing.
bfJJ$h3y hfb hDAcDvD ’ 
alrm fAH J?BBqy bfJJ$h3y
mvq“TqA yAAy
i AODTOYOunniqbv1 fH D9ffyv
1$$$fhqc bfJJ$h3
qyL qTfAb fAH DqHH:YfAb 3AqHqhbvv
r
bug
1vy$3hvH JvHm
r8ek KNO5OO 
Complete with written 
guarantee
$2.00 OFFr8 l
Precision Haircut
$ ’sriCegtg z2 zlMu I Mtkeg- 
v^CPagM wgn5 Ed.S;;S 
$ hrt ,lePR zPtu l8k rtuga r((ga 
mAy
bug
JHvD$y$fh DAb
r8ek )SV5OO
Complete with shampoo 
and blow style
¦n
"There's nothing like a 
good piny followed by a 
quiet dinner for two"
"I prefer two tickets to 
watch my favorite team 
piny."
"Wrong. Nothing 
compares to a great rock 
concert!"
No matter what your 
style, you can be sure 
you'll get the Latest In 
hair fashions at Great 
Expectations. The one 
salon for everyone.
stissr" GREAT 
CKPCGTflTltnS.
JHvD$y$fh 9q$HDAbbvHy
WAybYqYDAb
only S^O.OO
Cut only
mAyb 9qQv DfAJfh
qeMr
q,lPelnegx
/ JgaiM
/ DreraP8o
/ warMtP8o
v DfAJfh __$ / Dr8RPtPr8P8o
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
Little AthensBest Gyro In Town.....................................................2103 Murray Ave.
Sides422-1330
3kar55555555555555555555555N5OOyCP8lsu JPg555555555555S5KOSalads
5555E5OO3alCg cgl,gM55555555E5BO3kar ylelR5555555555555N5KO
yuPMu Llnrn555555555V5OOwag8su waPgM55555555555S5EK3aggp ylelR555555555555S5;K Mi5
3kar 1P88ga55555555555V5;KHPsg JPel(5555555555555555S5BKE5BK $o5JlMtaPgM
yuPMu Llnrn5555555555j5jOS dKqatPsurpg ylelR555.555N5OO Mi55555O5BK
wlel(ge 1P88ga55555555V5EKTlnl 3ur8log5555555S5;KV5KO $o5HPsg JURRP8o55555555S5SO
1 0% Off Catering
f((Psg ra 9rUMg JlatPgM
422-1330 
FREE DELIVERY
’mP85 faRga )j5OO-
v^CPagM N2SK2;S
$1.00 OFF
Any Lunch/Dinner 
Purchase of $5.00 Or More
f8g DrUCr8 Cga QPMPt 
hrt ,lePR FPtu ftuga f((gaM fa 1geP,gaPgM 
v^CPagM N2SK2;S
$2.00 OFF B $3.00 OFF
Any Lunch/Dinner 
Purchase of $10.00 i Or More
f8g DrUCr8 Cga QPMPt 
hrt ,lePR FPtu ftuga f((gaM fa 1geP,gaPgM | 
__________v^CPagM N2SK2;S________________|
Any Lunch/Dinner Purchase of $15.00 Or More
f8g DrUCr8 Cga QPMPt 
hrt ,lePR FPtu ftuga f((gaM fa 1geP,gaPgM 
v^CPagM N2SK2;S

---------------------------------------------------

hrun8
Ni I VllElR S
Notices
Admission for all DH 2210 films is $1 
for students with ID, $2 otherwise. 
Admission to all Pittsburgh Playhouse 
films is $3.
After Hours plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tonight at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Moulin Rouge plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tomorrow night at 7:30 and 
9:40 pm.
Akira Kurosawa’s Dreams will be 
showing at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Wednesday at 7:30 and 9:40 pm.
Raging Bull will play at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse Thursday at 7:30 and 
9:45 pm.
The Unbelievable Truth will be 
shown in DH 2210 Thursday at 6, 8, 
and 10 pm.
The 3rd Animation Celebration will 
play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Friday and Saturday evenings at 7:30, 
9:30 and 11:30, and Sunday evening at 
7:30 and 9:30. Admission is $4.
Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adventure 
will be shown in DH 2210 Friday at 6, 
8,10 and midnight.
Child’s Play II will be shown in DH 
2210 Saturday at 6, 8,10, and mid­
night.
Clash of the Titans will be shown in 
DH 2210 Sunday at 7, 9:30, and 
midnight.
Culture
“Signs and Wonders,” a part of the 
Architects and Artifacts series, will be 
showing in the Hewlett Gallery in the 
College of Fine Arts Tuesday through 
February 9. Admission is free.
Money, Soviet photography and 
King Anthracite will be exhibited at 
the Carnegie Mellon Art Gallery 
through March 5. Admission to the 
gallery is free. For more information 
call x3110.
The artwork of Anatoli Kaplan will 
be on exhibition February 3-27 in the 
Fine/Perlow and Weis Galleries in the 
Jewish Community Center. An open­
ing reception will be held Sunday from 
4—6 pm.
The Trisha Brown Company will be 
performing at the Benedum Center 
February 9 at 8 pm. The modem 
dance company is presented by the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council and comes 
to Pittsburgh straight from a success­
ful world tour. Tickets are still avail­
able at $11, $16, $30 and $40. For 
more information call the Benedum 
Center Box Office at 456-6666.
The Explorers’ Club weekly meet­
ings will be held every Thursday at 
6:30 pm in Porter Hall 225C. For more 
information call Lee Janson at x3457.
International Art Horizons has
announced deadlines and $30,000 in 
prizes in the 10th New York — Inter­
national Art Competition, which is 
open to artists working in a number of 
different art media. For more informa­
tion write to: International Art Hori­
zons, Dept. RASU, P.O. Box 1533, 
Ridgewood, NJ 07450 or call (201) 487- 
7277.
Men Against Rape and Pornogra­
phy (MARAP) will be meeting Sun­
day at 7:30 pm at the Friend’s Meeting 
House, 4836 Ellsworth Avenue. The 
topic for the meeting is Tomography 
and Racism.” For more information 
write: MARAP, P.O. Box 8181, Pitts­
burgh, PA 15217.
Alvin P. Brannick, senior vice 
president for legal affairs, will have an 
open office hour each Tuesday from 2 
to 3 pm for students with legal prob­
lems. In Warner Hall 605. Call x3708 
to make an appointment.
Volunteers are needed at
Lawrenceville-Bloomfield “Meals on 
Wheels,” located at St. Augustine’s 
church on 37th Street and Butler. 
Meals are prepared every day of the 
year for people on special diets who are 
not able to cook for themselves. Help is 
needed in the kitchen and “on the 
road” at various times of the day. For 
more information or to sign up, contact 
Tony or Josie at 687-0830.
A Skills for Leadership seminar
will be held Saturday from 9 am to 4 
pm in Skibo and is open to all stu­
dents. Those who hold leadership 
positions, as well as those who aspire 
to leadership positions, will benefit.
For more information call Bonnie 
Gorman at x2110. Sponsored by 
Student Activities.
A Personal Appearance seminar
featuring KDKA Television news 
anchor Patti Burns will be held Febru­
ary 10 at Visions Hair Salon in 
Shadyside. Reservations can be made 
by calling 683-9424. Cost is $49.95.
Busch Gardens will hold auditions
for singers, dancers, musicians, actors, 
comedic and variety performers, stage 
technicians, seamstresses and ward­
robe dressers for the African-theme 
park’s 1991 season February 10 from 9 
am to 6 pm at the Sheraton Hotel at 
Station Square. Performers should be
18 years of age or older and available 
for full-time employment for one year. 
Auditions are conducted on a first- 
come first-served basis and are limited 
to 2 minutes. Additional material may 
be required during same-day call­
backs. For more information call the 
Busch Gardens Entertainment Depart­
ment at (813) 987-5302.
Seminars for the City of Pitts­
burgh Marathon have begun. The 
schedule continues with "Special 
Medical Concerns for Runners” at 6:30 
pm February.15 at the Mt. Lebanon 
High School Fine Arts Theatre. "The 
Management of Running Injuries” will 
be discussed at 6:30 pm March 15 at 
the Sports Medicine Institute. “Aids 
for Improving Running Performance” 
will be the topic on April 12 at 6:30 pm 
at the Monroeville Palace Hotel. A 
“Pre-race Overview” will be held 2 pm 
May 4 at a yet-to-be-determined 
downtown location. For more informa­
tion call 647-RUNN.
Foreign language tables will be held 
in the Morewood cafeteria starting this 
week. Mondays: Ranchi O Nihon-go De 
(Japanese language table) beginning at 
11:30 am. Tuesdays: II Circolo Italiano 
(Italian language table), 5-6 pm. 
Wednesdays: La Table Française 
(French language table) beginning at 
11:30 am. Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch (German language table) 
beginning at 11:30 am. Fridays: La 
Mesa Española (Spanish language 
table) and Russkaya Beseda (Russian 
lánguage table) beginning at 11:30 am.
Carnegie Mellon Ballroom Dance 
Club will have meetings Wednesdays 
from 7-11 pm in the Skibo Ballroom 
beginning February 6. Singles and 
couples at all experience levels are 
welcome. For more information, 
contact Aki Ohshima at x7116.
Interested in making a Jewish 
connection? Want to discuss events 
in the Middle East? Have lunch at 
11:45 am Tuesday in Kiltie Court with 
Cindy Goodman-Leib, Assistant 
Director of B’nai B’rith Hillel.
A bagel brunch and constitution 
meeting sponsored by B’nai B’rith 
Hillel will be held Sunday at 12:30 pm 
at Hillel, 160 N. Craig Street. Call 621- 
8875 for more information.
United Jewish Appeal phone-a- 
thon, Sunday, 3-7 pm, 234 McKee 
Place. Call Brian Saks at x4788 for 
more information.
Religion
Come celebrate Tu B’shevat! Join 
B’nai B’rith Hillel for a Tu B’shevat 
seder and dinner Tuesday at 5 pm at 
Hillel, 160 N. Craig Street. Call 621- 
8875 for reservations or questions.
Spend Shabbat dinner at Hillel,
Friday. Happy half-hour starts at 5:30 
pm, services at 6 and dinner at 6:45. 
Call 621-8875 for reservations or 
questions.
“Prayer at the Close of the Day”
will be sung on Sunday at 9:30 pm in 
Heinz Chapel by the Compline Choir 
under the direction of John W. Becker. 
The organists are Terri Haslett and 
Joyce Stobel who will play Langlais’ 
“Music for Two Organs.” This ecumeni­
cal choral service is sponsored by the
Lutheran University Center. Call 
x6886 for more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory
celebrates mass daily at 12:30 pm in 
Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. 
Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 
pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration auditorium. For more 
information call the Roman Catholic 
Oratory at 681-3181.
Jewish reform students are invited 
to a luncheon with Gil Sarig, Saturday, 
1 pm, room 212, Pitt Student Union. 
Call B’nai B’rith Hillel at 621-8875 for 
more information.
Lectures
David Brody, artist, visiting art 
faculty, Carnegie Mellon, will speak 
February 6, 5:30 pm in Margaret 
Morrison Hall A14. Open to the public. 
No charge. Part of the Carnegie Mellon 
Art Department Spring 1991 Lecture 
Series.
Sande Deitch, art administrator, 
Pittsburgh. February 20, 5:30 pm in 
Margaret Morrison Hall A14. Open to 
the public. No charge. Part of the 
Carnegie Mellon Art Department 
Spring 1991 Lecture Series.
Music
An All-Mozart program will be 
performed tonight at 8:15, featuring 
Stephen Starkman. The program 
honors the 200th anniversary of 
Mozart’s death and will be performed 
in Levy Hall at Rodef Shalom Temple.
The Emerson String Quartet will 
perform tonight at Carnegie Music 
Hall at 8 as part of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber Music Society Series. Seats 
are $18 and $14. For more information 
call 624-4129.
The Winter Solstice Concerts,
featuring recording artists Nightnoise, 
Liz Story, and Philip Aaberg. February 
14 at 7:30 pm in Carnegie Music Hall. 
Tickets $5 with CMU ID, two tickets 
per ID, available at Skibo Information 
Desk. Sponsored by AB Concerts. For 
more information contact Justin 
Pizzella at x2105.
An all-campus Valentine’s Dance
will be held on February 15 from 9 pm 
to 1 am in the Skibo Ballroom. Spon­
sored by the Asian Student Associa­
tion. Valentine balloons, hors 
d’oeuvres and refreshments will be 
provided. $5 a person; $8 a couple. 
ASA members half price.
Theatre
The Marriage of Figaro will be 
presented by the Department of Music ' 
tonight through Wednesday at the 
Winchester-Thurston School. Curtain 
is 8 pm and admission is $10. For 
more information call x2383.
Into The Woods will open for pre­
views in Kresge Theatre February 7 
and will run through February 23. 
Curtain time is 8 pm Tuesday through 
Saturday, and 2 pm for the Saturday 
matinee. Tickets are $13, $10, and $7. 
For more information call Kresge 
Theatre Box Office at x2407.
Pyramid Reproductions features 
sixteen scenes by Pittsburgh play­
wrights, one poet, and one storyteller 
in three nights. Presented by Pyramid 
Productions February 8, 9, and 10. 
The show will be different each night 
and will be presented at the Birming­
ham Lofts, located at 24 South 18th 
Street on the South Side. Showtime is 
9 pm February 8 and 9, and 8 pm 
February 10. The show features works 
by CMU graduates. For more informa­
tion call 363-7472.
Reality Optional, at the Artery, will 
have shows February 9 and 23, March
9 and 23, April 6 and 20, and May 4 
and 18. Curtain time is 7:30 pm.
MacMuffin, a fast-food tragedy in 
three acts, will be presented by Flying 
Pig Theatre February 10 at the Bir­
mingham Lofts as part of Pyramid 
Reproductions. Tickets are $5. For 
more information call the theatre at 
687-1136.
Sports
The men’s basketball team plays 
Washington & Jefferson College at 
home 7:30 pm Wednesday.
The swim teams compete against 
Slippery Rock University of Pennsylva­
nia at home Saturday at 1 pm.
The Pittsburgh Penguins play 
Boston at home Saturday at 1:35 pm.
The IM Bowling finals are set for 
Saturday. Fun for the entire family.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submis­
sions to: The Tartan, Attn. Calendar, 
Box 17, Carnegie Mellon U., Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213. Or send campus mail to 
Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info 
Desk. You can also drop submissions via 
AppleShare in the drop folders in the 
Tartan’s server, Skibo zone. Please limit 
submissions to fifty words or less. 
Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday before 
the next issue. Space is limited and place­
ment is not guaranteed. Original Vox 
Populi and Calendar entries cannot be 
returned.
See ya Matt M., have a good 
time, and watch out for 
planetary analyzing transmit­
ters....
Revenge should know no 
bounds.
Obsidiaen killed Hellbender in 
the conservatory with the lead 
pipe.
Sigma Gamma Iota (all two of 
us) general information 
meeting is needed to discuss 
the VP’s abrupt (NOT!!!) 
departure and the President’s 
soon to be resignation (as soon 
as someone takes him seri­
ously).
COWPERÜ!
WHY DON’T YOU DRINK 
MORE THAN TWO BEERS 
IN ONE NIGHT?!?
YOU’RE THE ONLY PER­
SON WHO GETS DRUNK 
OFF ONE HAIRY NAVEL.
In West Virginia, a case of 
Michelob costs $13. Like you 
know.
I want you, Stinky. I want you 
now.
I can guess that you’re pretty 
mad by now, eh Giardinia?
Well, you brought the shit 
down on yourself and we’ve had 
fun dishing it to you. But the 
time has come! Giardiniageddon 
is closing in! We were just 
playing with your ass before. 
Now we are going to finish it, 
once and for all! BeWare!
ImageMaster
My skull is null
— pi non — little sister
Isn’t napalm dangerous?
— pi non — little sister
If it isn’t wet, it isn’t pi
— pi’s national slogan
Chica,
Next time I’ll listen to you, 
the munchkin, and Grandma B.
G.H.
I thought that the Bn XO wore 
five bars, not two...
MK,
With a garden hose like that, 
you must do a lot of “garden­
ing”....
General: What’s wrong, sir? 
Saddam: Why in Allah’s name 
didn’t you tell me that they had 
2000 planes?
General: But, I did, sir!
Saddam: What?
General: Well, don’t you know 
that you’re supposed to multiply 
any number I give you by ten? 
(Sound of 9mm pistol in back­
ground)
Now, at least Saddam won’t be 
able to develop deadly “baby 
food” weapons.
— Rusty
To the S.U. Collective:
1) The word “sexism” didn’t 
exist when Thoreau was writ­
ing.
2) You have neither the clear­
ance nor the “need to know.”
“A web would indicate an 
arachanoid presence.”
(to the tune of “Jingle Bells”) 
Chargin’ ’cross the desert,
In my Ml Abrams tank,
O’er the dunes we go,
Smashing through the ranks, 
YUT! YUT! YUT!
Targets are in range,
Make sure to aim your gun, 
What fun it is to shoot and fight 
In the blazing sun! Yeah! 
Desert Storm, Desert Storm, 
Kuwait here we come!
We just want to free the land 
AND GO HOME AND GET A 
F***IN’ SIX-PACK!
— to the men and women of 
OP DS, from Rusty and the 
Archer
Tracy, “Sailboat! House! Tree, 
it’s a tree!” heh heh, YLS
Gen C.P., CJCS How does it feel 
to blast a nuclear weapons 
facility, bomb a runway, and 
turn the Republican Guard into 
meatloaf?
CNN — Catch the Feeling (but 
not the bombs)
From last week’s Vox:
“If you ain’t DU, you ain’t shit.” 
Is this meant to imply that 
if you ARE DU, you ARE shit?
“I want to eat coconuts and run 
naked on the beach.”
— Fer
Happy Birthday!
I love you.
Kisses & hugs & anything 
else you can think of....
Sleepy
When it absolutely, positively 
has to be destroyed ovemigM- 
TOMAHAWK — Guaranteed 
on target by 10:00 am or your 
money back....
“We’re gonna cut it off, and 
then we’re gonna kill it.”
And it’s a home run! Yahhoo
