WEDNESr
BE WITH THE CROWD 
AT PENN STATE 
GO ON THE SPECIAL
CHAPEL SERVICES 
THURSDAY, 12:50 
NOTE CHANGED TIME
VOL. XVII. NO. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1922
POINT SYSTEM 
TO BE STARTED 
THIS SEMESTER
Managers and Secretaries of 
Activities Will be Required 
to Furnish List of Members 
to Point System Committee
ARNOLD IS CHAIRMAN
The Point System Committee, re­
cently appointed by the Student Coun­
cil, held its organization meeting on 
Tuesday, October 31. The committee, 
of which Kenneth-Arnold is chairman, 
is composed of the following members 
•from the various colleges; Margaret 
Morrison College, Mary Spears and 
Mildred Abel; College of Fine Arts, 
Vincent Roy and P. S. Sload; College 
of Engineering, Paul Shucker and W. 
E. Kemery; College of Industries, F. 
M. Gore and Clifford Zinn.
The first step in the actual opera­
tion of the point system, as far as 
limiting the activities of each indi-- 
vidual is concerned, will be carried 
out as soon as the proper blanks are 
printed. ,-These blanks will be given 
to the secretaries and managers of 
all activities, to all class secretaries, 
and to all student organizations.
The proper authority in each activ­
ity or organization will fill out these 
blanks, listing the members of that 
organization, the position in the or­
ganization heljl by each individual, 
and the name of the class and college 
of each person.
The blanks should be filled out and 
returned to the Point System Com­
mittee as'~soon, as possible, because 
the committee will make from these 
reports an index card for each man 
engaged in any activity. The index 
' will be the basis for checking each 
. man’s activities.
No one individual will he allowed 
to carry more than twenty points at 
any one time. Any person having 
more than the designated twenty 
points will be required to reduce his 
participation in activities to a maxi­
mum of twenty points, unless special 
permission is secured from the Stu­
dent Council. The point system will 
not affect this’ year’s Seniors.
In order that the point system shall 
become firmly established, the Point 
System Coinm iltee must liirv tf ‘"¿hr 
hearty co-operation of every organiza­
tion and every activity connected with 
the school.
Committee Sets Date 
Women’s Junior Prom
Time is January 19th, 1923. 
Place, Schenley Hotel
The committee in charge of the 
Women’s Junior Prom announces that 
the Prom will be held January 19, 
1923.. in the Schenley Hotel. Plans 
for the Prom are progressing favor­
ably.
The committee is composed of: 
Blair Jes3op, chairman; Thelma 
Leatherman, Eleanor Tliesmeyer, 
Grace Sheriff, Frances McClymonds, 
Eleanor Wilt, and Helen Johnson.
WOMEN'S ATHLETIC ASS'N.
TO HOLD NOVELTY DANCE
The Women’s Athletic Association 
wishes to announce that on Friday 
evening, November 24, there wiH be 
a Novelty Benefit Dance in the Union. 
Some of you probably db- not know 
there is such an association in exist­
ence, but there is, and it is really 
alive this year.
We have received generous co-op­
eration from various school depart­
ments and now we ask the student 
body as a whole. Tickets will be on 
sale this week, only $1.50; and for 
what you are going to get, it is cheap. 
Remember Friday evening, Novem­
ber 24.
Student Activities Board 
Gives $500 to Kilts Drive
At a meeting of the Student Activi­
ties Board held last Wednesday even-- 
ing, it was unanimously voted to do­
nate a sum of five hundred dollars to­
ward the drive for kilties. This con­
tribution will help considerably in 
meeting the expenses incurred by the 
new hand attire. The results of a se­
cret vote, cast last week by the band 
members, show them all to be in 
-favor of the new kilties.
The matter of the girls’ publication, 
"The Shilling,’' was brought to the 
attention of the members of the board, 
and it was agreed to lend the hearty 
support of the hoard to increasing 
sales and to helping the publication 
secure a firm footing in all the schools. 
“Tho Shilling’’ henceforth is to he a 
publication of the girls of both Arts 
and Margaret Morrison schools. While 
it is essentially a publication of the 
girls it is not entirely for the girls. 
The men, as well- as the girls of all 
the schools should co-operate with 
this new campus publication, which 
is without a doubt, one of Carnegie’s 
best. It is supervised by the; girls of 
the editorial department.
President Jeffers appointed Ames 
as treasurer of the Student Activities 
Board for the coming year.
* CORRECTION MADE TO *
STATEMENT IN LAST WEEK’S * 
ISSUE BY THISTLE BOARD *>
* The Thistle board wishes to *> 
*!* correct some erroneous impres-
sions created by the statement of ?
* the board in last week’s Tartan *
* when it stated that last * 
v year’s photographer had nothing * 
v to do with this year’s book. This *
* statement applies to the photo- * 
v graphing of individuals only. The
* official photographer for the in- * 
?> dividual pictures is Mr. Turgeon v 
*!• of Johnstown, who is now work- *
* ing on Seniors and fraternities, v
* Last year’s photographer is talc- v 
v ing the activities and views. v
ERRATUM
The following is a correction for 
an article in the Tartan of last week: 
Mr. Tudury when writing up the ar­
ticle about Dr. Langmuir’s lectures 
misinterpreted the dates. The correct 
dates for his lectures are as follows: 
November 27th, 28th and 29th.
JOINT CONCERT
A POSSIBILITY
Men’s and Women’s Glee 
Clubs May Combine to Give 
An “All Schoors Concert”
Information has come from the Glee 
Club authorities that plans are being 
laid for a great “all schools concert.” 
According to the latest dope, the 
Men’s Club and the Women’s Club will 
combiné to form a single "'Carnegie 
Tech chorus and with every member 
of both clubs co-operating, a program 
can be arranged that will make every 
Techite’s heart swell with pride. This 
concert is planned for the-near future, 
and is an entirely new departure in 
the program of Carnegie Tecli musical 
clubs: Heretofore the only big con­
cert given has been the Home Concert 
at thé end of the season, but this year 
it is felt that a pre-season -joint con­
cert would be'welcomed by the stu­
dent body and outside patrons of the 
clubs. Of course the Home Concert 
will remain the "big event.”
There will be a variety of selections 
this ÿear. The men’s club has been 
working on several classical numbers 
and already has them in very good 
condition. Next Sunday they will start 
(lie prëp à raVi on ' ( J t' pô pu I hr n'ncMui Irior-' 
ous numbers. Mr. E. Rheil has charge 
of both the Women’s and Men^g Gloe 
Clubs, and he reports similar progress 
for the Women’s Club.
It is the purpose of Mr. Rheil to 
•have one hundred permanent members 
in each club, and the enrollment is 
fast approaching that number. The 
musical clubs have never been so pop­
ular in the realm of student activity. 
The large number of oùt-of-town trips 
being booked by the management is 
responsible for this popularity. There 
are a few vacancies left, however, so 
if you can sing at all, report at De­
sign School exhibition room next Sun­
day afternoon at 2:30.
Strizzi Elected President 
of Non-Degree Association
At a meeting held last Friday, Emilo 
Strizzi was elected president of the 
Non-Degree Club, which position was 
left vacant'by' Mr. Holbein, who did 
not return to school this year. The 
secretary, M. J. Aukney, and treas­
urer, iS. Robinson remaining the same. 
.Mr. Strizzi appointed on his Board of 
Directors, Schafer, Auto Department; 
Bell, Machine Production; Lucas, 
Building Department; Aukney, Min­
ing, and Morgan, Heating and Venti­
lating. Other entertainment commit­
tees were also appointed.
Great enthusiasm was displayed by 
the large numher of men who turned 
out at this meeting and several men 
gave sliort talks, at the request of the 
president, with the result that a 
smoker is to be held as soon'as a pos­
sible date can be arranged. Anyone 
who attended last year’s smoker will 
not miss this one, for the men are 
still talking about the good time 
which they had last year. The Penn 
State trip was also discussed.
All non-degree first year men are 
urged to join this organization as it 
means the acquaintance with the 
other men who are taking up different 
courses;'the exchanging of ideas for 
mutual benefit; and the closer friend­
ship with other men, which is the 
foundation of this nation.
SCIENCE HELD SHORT
ASSEMBLY WEDNESDAY
At the short Science Assembly last 
Wednesday, Dean Tarbell personally 
invited all Engineering Plebes to the 
reception which he and Dean Brown 
are giving on Monday afternoon. A 
similar reception was given to the 
Arts School and Industries Freshmen 
on Wednesday afternoon. “These re­
ceptions,” said Mr. Tarbell, “offer a 
great opportunity for the Freshmen 
to meet their collegiate better halves 
without having the Sophomores inter­
fere.”
On Wednesday the drive to supply 
the band with Id Its opened. Every 
fellow was asked to contribute to­
wards the three thousand dollars nec­
essary to buy the uniforms. 'The kilts 
have been promised for the Notre 
Dame game and should prove a great 
(Continued on Page Four.)
RALLY FOR PENN 
STATE GAME AT 
GEN. ASSEMBLY
Practice of New Songs to be 
Led By Band. Tennis and 
Interfraternity Cups Will be 
Presented. Wally to Speak
BLACK IMPS WILL PLAY
Were you there the last time? Of 
course you were. WdlL then, we 
don’t have to tell you come out this 
time, but if you weren’t, you want 
to be- at the Carnegie Music Hall 
next Wednesday, November the 
eighth, and be there early, for the pro: 
gram is so full that we can’t wait fol­
iate comers. Bring your best girl if 
you want to, but also bring a good 
strong, healthy voice becaftse the band 
is going to be there and teach us some 
of the much discussed new songs. By 
the way, have you noticed the miser­
able attempts that we have some­
times made at singing ‘‘Si McNadd” 
at the football games? Freshen up a 
bit on that, and we will show the 
Judge we can sing after all. Oh, sure. 
"Wally” will be there to give us a 
speech, and so will “Bob” Wadell. 
You know what that means, some ad­
vance dope on Penn State and an ink­
ling as to what the Penn Staters think 
about this game.
Nor is that all. President Bowers is 
going to present the hard-fought-for 
tennis cup to O’Connor, who succeed­
ed in wresting the trophy fromb Van 
Atta at the finals. S-li-lt-h-, here is a 
surprise coming. Who is going to get 
tho Interfraternlty scholarship cup? 
Come on down and you will find out, 
for President Bowers told us confi­
dentially that he is going t'o let the 
cat out of the bag, figuratively speak­
ing. There has been a close race this 
year, so interest is running high. First 
and last and all the time, the Imps, 
yes, the Imps,’ the Black Imps, if you 
please, are going to be there and 
give us a few or, if time allows, sev­
eral selections.
Wally, Wadell, Band, new songs, 
Penn State Rally, Tennis Cup, Inter­
fraternity Scholarship Cup, the Black 
Imps, and maybe, just maybe, there 
will be some good news about tho 
kilts.
What morji^can youjr heart desiro?
•I* IMPORTANT CHANGE IN 
?I* TIME OF. CHAPEL; NOW v
•I* SET FOR THURSDAY NOON v
* Chapel will bo held on Thurs- ?*.*
*!• rays, 12:50 to 1:20, starting * 
•I- next. Thursday, November 9. v 
•I* This change has been made so *
* that the students of the College v
* of Fine Arts and Margaret Mor- ?!* 
*!• rison College who have classes *
* during the time that chapel was *
* formerly held, will be able to v 
v attend the remaining chapel ex- *
ercises.
v Doctor , A. R. Robortson of -the *
•I* Sixth United Prdsbyterian ?!*
•’.* Church, will be the speaker at <-
* next Thursday’s Chapel. Doctor *
* Robertson spoke at one of the *
* chapel exeröises last year and *
* gave a very interesting talk.
•I* On the following chapel, No- * 
•I* vember 16, Father Cole will * 
*!? speak. I *
* All students are cordially in- *
* vited to attend i *
* *
TARTANS HELD 
TO LOW SCORE 
BY ALLEGHENY
WORK ON JUNIOR 
PROM UNDER WAY
Committee Will Begin Sale 
of Preliminary Tickets Af­
ter Christmas Vacation
Work on the Junior Prom Is now 
going forward in full swing. The mu­
sic committee is planning to provide 
the best music possible for the occa­
sion as they realize that music is one 
of the main essentials. Last year tho 
Mason-Dixon Orchestra was on hand.
Financing will be carried on in 
somewhat different manner this year 
as the committee feels that tho 
method of selling 'preliminary tickets 
has been somewhat unsatisfactory. A 
special assessment of $1.50 1ms been 
made against each Junior, and this 
amount is to be collected at once to 
provide for general preliminary ex­
penses. Tickets will be sold soon 
after the Christina^ holidays.
FORTY PER ŒNT OF 
MEN ENROLLED BY “Y”
Band to Get Appropriation 
For Kilts and State Trip
At its meeting last week the Stu­
dent Council moved to pay one hun­
dred and forty-five dollars and sixty 
rents toward the cost of sending tho 
band to Penn Stato this week. Tho 
expenses of the trip will be divided 
up among thd Student Activities 
Board, the. Athletic Association, tho 
Alumni Association, and the band. 
The total cost of the trip will bo four 
hundred dollars.
Due to the unavoidable absence of 
Treasurer Zelt the Council was unable 
to determine the amount of money 
available at tho, present, time. iSo it 
could not make an appropriation to 
the kilts fund. This will be attended 
to at the next meeting and the Council 
will do its share towards outfitting the 
band with kilts.
The Social Committee announced, 
two important changes in the social 
calendar. The date of the Junior 
Banquet has been changed from De­
cember 2 to December 8, the first date 
coming during the Thanksgiving vaca­
tion. 'The date of the All-Freshman 
Dance has been moved to January 5. 
The resignation of J. T. Ames as a 
member of the Council and Science 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Col. Cunningham to Take 
Charge R.O.T.C. Nov. 16
Colonel John C. W. Brooks, head of 
the R. O. T. C. at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, was relieved from duty 
by the War Dept., at Washington, No 
vember 1. Colonel Thomas H. Cun­
ningham will succeed Colonel Brooks, 
coming to Carnegie' Tech November 
12. During the interim Major Philip 
Gordon will be in command of the 
military department.
Colonel Brooks finishes a term of 
service to his government extending 
over a pei;iod of thirty years. He 
served during the Spanish American 
War, and during the Great War was 
stationed here in charge of the S. A. 
T. C. Colonel Brooks will be Hi Pitts­
burgh only a short time, and then he 
goes to his home in California.
GRAPHICA CLUB GAVE FALL 
DANCE IN UNION LAST FRIDAY
The Graphica Dance held In the 
Union last Friday evening was an­
other brilliant triumph of the activi­
ties of that most versatile organiza­
tion. About sixty couples were pres­
ent making a group of about the right 
size for the Union.
The dance was not a financial suc­
cess, but as this was not the primary 
purpose of the occasion, no loss was 
felt. The Graphica endeavored to give 
a dance to the school that would be 
merely a social success and no ex­
pense was spared to attain this end.
The Y. M. C. A. membership cam­
paign was very successful, according 
to tho reports which have boon turned 
;ln ¦ irsr x*in* jip
the studont body of 1500, lmvo been 
enrolled so far. A few of the section 
canvassers have not yet reported. It 
is expected that the total enrollment 
will roach 750 or fifty per cent of tho 
students, as against approximately 32 
per cent for last year. Tho financial 
6nd o£ the campaign has been as suc­
cessful as tho onrolllng of new mem­
bers. To date $2,543 has been turned 
In. With those reports that are still 
out the goal of $3,000 Is certain to bo 
attained. Last year only $1,400 was 
raised in the membership campaign.
The results of the-campaign were 
very satisfactory to tho committee and 
their organization. Whije they are 
well satisfied In that they have a 
greater per cent, of tho student body 
enrolled and have raisod a greater 
sum of money from a smaller student 
body, the “Y” would like to have every 
man in the institution enrolled and 
still extend a hearty and sincere in­
vitation to all who are not yet mem­
bers, to enroll. That the "Y” is de* 
serving of the support of every man 
in Carnegie is an unquestionable fact..
With the impetus of new members 
and more funds the “Y” enters on a 
new era of activity. All the old activ­
ities of the organization will be con­
tinued and many new phases of activ­
ity will be taken up.
Mr. Davis in an interview said, “I 
want to express my appreciation to 
all the men who have helped In this 
campaign and especially want to 
thank the committee of those men 
who so successfully carried through 
the canvass for members.”
Plaid Team Suffers Relapse. 
Allegheny Springs Surprise 
By Holding Carnegie Tech 
to One Lone Touchdown
PLAID SEEKS 
VICTORY AT 
PENN STATE
GODDEN’S LEG BROKEN
Coach MciCrackon of the Allegheny 
College, presented one of the best 
coached teams that has ever played 
on the Carnegie Tech field, in the 
football contest which took place last 
Saturday All Carnegie men knew 
that Allegheny would play the best 
brand of football that they could, but 
it was not expected that their play 
would 15c good enough to hold the 
Plaid team to a 7 to 0 score. The 
final result was quite unexpected, 
and, in all fairness to Allegheny, it 
must be said that they displayed a 
better brand of football than any 
of the teams which have played 
against Carnegie Tech this year with 
tho possible exception of Yale. 
Coach Steffen and Bob Waddell both 
stated before the game that they ex­
pected ono of the hardest games of 
the season, but their opinion was not 
shared ' by tho student body, and the 
result of the game merely shows that 
the coaches were right.
Carnegie kicked to Allegheny and 
tho ball was brought back lo tho 20- 
yard line. Allegheny started to bat­
ter the line and in threo downs had 
gained the required ton yards. On 
tho third pay Comfort wrenched his 
knee and had to carried off the field. 
A few minutes later! God den had his 
leg broken ana, he too had to be car­
ried off. The only score of the game 
occurred in this first quarter, whon 
the ball was carrlod from tho Carne­
gio 45-yanl line to the six-yard lino 
on rushes by Robortson, Lamb and 
Brumbaugh. Allegheny then hold for 
throe downs but on tho fourth Pottoi: 
skirted around right end for a touch- 
>d|own. Roboytson drop-kicked tho 
ball for the extra point. Tho first 
quartor onded soon after thlq. play 
and during tho second quarter most, 
of tho play was In tho Alloghony ter­
ritory.
completely outplayed and outfought 
(Continued on Pago Throe)
Carnegie Football Machine Will Need 
Support of All Students—Reduced 
Train Fare Insures Good At- 
tendance--Many Will Hike
ON TO PENN STATE TO WIN
ORDER FOR KILTS 
HAS BEEN PLACED
Pitt and Carnegie Icch 
Have Resumed Relations
THISTLE BOARD ASKS
FOR CO-OPERATION IN
TAKING OF PICTURES
The taking of individual pictures 
of seniors and fraternity members is 
now in full swing. Mr. Turgeon can. 
however, accommodate many more 
ctlian have been coming around for sit­
tings. All seniors and fraternity mem­
bers are urged to co-operate with the 
Thistle Board and the photographer, 
by having their photographs taken 
when scheduled. Students who have 
their rough proofs, are requested .to 
make their choice and return the 
proof to Mr. Turgeon at once. Over 
a thousand different individual pic­
tures are contained in the Thistle, and 
the taking, rendering of proofs, select­
ing, retouching, and printing, of the 
selected photograph is a considerable 
undertaking. Please do your bit by co­
operating with the photographer. Mr. 
Turgeon is in the Union every day, 
except Sunday, from nine until four. 
Give him a chance to “do his stuff.”
******** * ******** 
* * 
•:* PUPPET NEEDS MEN!
* Freshmen! Sophomores! Do *
* you v^nt to be Advertising *
* Manager of Puppet? Do you
* want to be Business Manager? *
* Positions leading to these offices *
* are now open. jSee J. A. Berno, *
* 5100 Woodlawn, any day this *
* week at 12:20 to 1:30. Sehen- *
* ley 983-M. *
*****************
Ono morning last week, tho gratify­
ing news that Carnegie Toch and Pitt 
had rosumod athlotlc relations was 
flashed around tho city. Although It 
came as somowhat of a surprise, In 
roality tho two schools have boon ap­
proaching a point of understanding for 
tho fmst yoar. Tho students of both 
schools have boon talking about it; 
tho fraternities havo boon working on 
it; and tho public has boon looking 
forward to Its coming, and finally II. 
has como.
As it now stands, tho Plaid will no 
doubt meet Pitt In basket ball this 
winter and in baseball and' track in 
tho spring. In the fall of 1923; the two 
will moot on tho gridiron for the first 
time since that momorablo game at 
Forbes Field in 1919. The old stu­
dents can still remember that game 
when Phil Marshall made a 93-yard 
run for a touchdown and the score 
stood 7-0 at tlie end of the first1 half. 
The game next fall will probably be 
scheduled for October 27, and should 
be the biggest football drawing card 
in this section. Both teams will be 
strong and Tartan backers can look 
forward to a battle royal.
High up oil the top of Mt. Nittany, the Ponn Stato Lion is roaring, suffer­
ing under tho recent defeat by tho Navy. The Blue and White is coming 
back strong before what will probably bo the largest crowd of football fans 
ever assembled on Beaver Field. It is Pennsylvania Day at Stato—home­
coming day for tho alumni. When the football schedule was made out, Car­
negie Tech was made tho attraction for that great day, for the reason that 
tho crowd would bo sure to witness a real gridiron battle. They saw a 
mighty battle last year, but Saturday they are going to see a Carnegie Tech 
victory, IF tho studont body, through attendance at the game, will support 
tho greatest football machine that over fought under tho Tartan Plaid. Tills 
year we have a team capablo of beating the best; but to be able to return 
homo with tho pelt of tho Mt. Nittany Lion, the studont body must bo present
In such numbers us to transfer “Pennsylvania Day” of State into “Carnegie
Day.” L t f 11 tl PI i'
spent $14.00 to see the Carnegie
Ponn State clash. Tills year, the
cost has been cut to loss than half, 
with no deduction In tho amount of 
¦fun which those who go are suro 
to havo. T^io $0.20 ticket will take 
you to soo two of tho leading foot­
ball teams clash, tho crack cross­
country team of Carnoglo pitted 
against the Bluo and White Harrlors, 
and tho greatest demonstration of 
collogo spirit imaginable between 
two of tho nation’s institutions ot 
learning.
You'll r eg rot It If you miss. If wo 
lose, you'll fool that you hadn't dono 
your pait In supporting Carnegie’s 
wonderful football machine. If avo 
win, you will novor forgive yoursolf 
for not having boon on hand to help 
load them Lo victory and celebrate In 
the llttlo town of State Collogo. Win 
or lose, and wo all Mol that It will 
bo tho fonnor, tho studont body la 
sure to return from Stato Collogo 
feeling (hat they'have supported tho 
team and helped to place Carnegio 
Tech on a. higher plane among tho 
Institutions of higher .education,
Thu support of the student bod} 
needed to llll the guarantee for 
special, and I he low price oC $ 
ought to hold no ono back. Ilowr 
(Continued on Page Three.'
Carnegie Will Have Largest 
Kiltie Band in Country. 
More Money Needed
The order for kilts for the baud has 
been placed and the band will wear 
them at tho Notre Damo gamo on No- 
vombor 25. The student campaign has 
already resulted In tho collection of 
ovor $1,200.
This campaign has so far betfn very 
successful, and further donations will 
be accepted until enough money Is re­
ceived to insure payment on tho uni­
forms. Tho percentage of salos of 
tags In tho various colleges are as 
follows Industries, 75 porcont; Arts, 
75 per cent; Solonco 10 per cont, and 
Margaret Morrison, 10 per cont. 
Groups who havo a low per contago 
of sales are urged to raise their 
marks. Paulino Dixon of tho Arts Col­
logo dosorvos honorable mention for 
Individual sales of tags. Miss Dixon 
collectod ovor $150, which Is tho great­
est amount sold by any ono person.
Tho .T. Donald McKay Company,, of 
Niagara Falls, will mako the kilts In 
tho true Scotch hlghlandor stylo. 
There are to bo fifty-six of them. Tho 
drum major will have a uniform dis­
tinctive from the other momboru of 
the baud.
Tho band wants a lmgplpo player. 
A band In kilts Is not comploto with­
out ono or oven several bagpipes. In 
a collogo such as this Is, with such n 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Ames Hands in Resignation 
as President of Science Senate
At a mooting; of tho Scionco Sonato,
Friday, Ootobor 31, J. T. Amos handed 
in his resignation as prosldont of tho 
Science Senate. It was Immediately 
acted upon and accepted.
Mr, Amos found that he must glvo 
up some ot Ills activities, nnd devote tho il; praotlcui Suloi
Ninth Life Insurance 
Term Begins Wo:
Charles J. Rockwell Direi 
Reorganized Course
Tho School of Life Insurance 
commonced Its ninth soslon at 
noglo Tooh. Tho aludonfs of 
school ropfrosont seventeen In 
anco companies and eighteen sl.n 
coining for tho short Intensive cr 
from points as far distant as v 
North Carolina and Rhode island.
Tho school Is under tho dlro< . 
of Charles J. Rockwell, Held supc 
sor with tho Edward A. Woods C 
pany during the years 10L1 to 1 
Mr. Rockwell is also In charp
First Issue of Shilling 
Comes Out November 27
The Shilling will appear on the 
campus again on November 27, with a 
real magazine for all Carnegie, and 
desires the support of every Carnegie 
student.
A new staff lias been elected, con­
sisting of Helen Duncombe, editor; 
Ray Fine, business manager; and Ann 
Kirker, associate editor.
As faculty representatives Mr. Long, 
Dr. McCleod, and Mr. Varmorcken 
have been chosen, and are expected to 
materially assist in improving the 
quality of the publication.
In addition to the usual articles, 
several new departments will be In­
augurated. Book reviews, criticisms 
of the Little Theater plays, and pic­
tures made In tho M. M. C. C. will be 
regular features of tho new Shilling.
Although Issued by tho co-eds, tho 
Shilling comes well up to Carnegie 
quality and deserves general support, 
When making your bets on tho Not.ro 
Damo gamo, play oji tho safe sldo 
and lay aside a quarter for tho Shil­
ling.
STUDENTS AND FACULTY
TO HEAR ROBINS NOVEMBER 14
Raymond Robins
The students and membors of the 
faculty of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology are Invited to hear Ray- 
moi.d Robins, social economist and in­
dustrial expert, speak on Tuesday 
evening, November 14 at 8:15 P. M., 
(Continued on Page Four.)
more of his time to school work. The 
resignation of this oillco as president 
of the Science Senate also made va­
cant his place on the Student Coun­
cil, of which he was vice president. 
The man who was elected to fill the 
vacancy In the Science Senate will 
also take the vacated place on the 
¦Student Council, although the office 
of vice president will probably be 
voted upon at the next regular meet­
ing of the Student Council, on Thurs­
day.
The man elected to the presidency 
of the Science Senate was J. D. Evans. 
Mr. Evans has been a prominent man 
in Science School for some time, and 
has already demonstrated his ability 
as an executive in student affairs. He 
is a Senior in the Department of Com­
mercial Engineering.
ship and the Functions of Lift 
surance, in both subjects he is 
known as an author and a lecti 
Dr. Edward K. SLrong, Jr., has 
course of Psychology of Salosn 
ship, upon AyliIcli he is a natioi. 
recognized authority. Curtis A. 
llngsworth, a graduate of this sc 
conducts the courses of Prlnci 
and Practices of Life Insura 
which cover policy structures, an 
sis, general company and ag' 
practices, and the science of ir 
an co.
The Insurance School was Tor 
in 1918-1919, and has given cei 
cates to more than six hundred 
dents finishing the short intern 
training. This year marks a W 
EDontinued on Pa/ie Three.'
Carnegie Glee Club Musikers Give 
Live Program Behind Closed Boo*
By T. S. Repplier
(Asphyxiated Press Wire)
The door3 of a Pittsburgh church 
wore locked for tho first tlmo In his­
tory last week when Carnegio Tech’s 
Vocal Musikers performed In a man­
ner that brought results sooner than 
expected. In all tho years gone by, 
never was such an enthusiastic dem­
onstration jitagod by a local audlonco, 
and never did the Champion Howlers 
perform with such vigor and yplrlt. 
From all reports, tho echo Is now be­
ing heard In Chicago, travolllng wost- 
ward.
Lock Them Doornl
No sooner had tho entire personnel 
of tho Gleo Club appeared upon the 
church rostrum and begun the spirited 
rendition of the Soup Song from “El 
Cafeteria,” than tho audience began 
to rise from their seats in ones and 
twos, and even threes and fours. The 
deacons of the church, scenting dan­
ger of a panic, showed rare presence
of mind by immediately locking ' 
doors, and, despite the entreatk- 
tho Infuriated audience, no one 
allowed to leave the hall.
'TIs well, Indeed, that the oaV 
doors were firmly fastened, for he' 
the entertainment was well u i 
way, citizens In neighboring hr j 
were beside themselves with w I 
and anguish, and already wore in 
Ing In gathering crowds near • 
church. At length tho oppressed 
zona could endure' the agonized ho 
no longer, and, quickly organizing 
Vlgllanl.es Committee, desponded if 
body upon tho scene of turmoil, rc 
to wreak their wrath upon the " 
tors of tho public peaco. (*
The Obliging Performers.
Inside the church all was In ar, 
roar. "Tenors and baritones vie'1-' 
each other in goading the lie0 
audience, and despite the stea^ 
of homeless fruit, antique eggs, 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN
rHREE
WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 8, 1._____~
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Postoflice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.A WORD ON THE FACULTY
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ............................................................. Editor-in-Chief
Telephone—Hiland SoS.
H. D. SONNEMANN...................................................................Business Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND...............................................I........................... Managing Editor
Telephone—Schenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD ..................................................................... Associate Editor {
H. P. SIMPSON.............................................................................. Associate Editor.
Telephone—Schenley 9143
HORTENSE PURDY......................................................................Associate Editor
Telephone—Schenley 9079
H. F. DIETER ........................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone—Hazel 939S
E. J. MAUST .......................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone—Hazel 9422
H. H. WILSON....................................................................................Athletic Editor
Telephone—Hazel 935G
R. P. HAY ............................................................................................. Photographer
R. B. KELLER ................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR.................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER .................................... .................................... Special Writer
J. K. MATTER.......................................................1........................... Special Writer
J. M. COOPER........................................................................ Advertising Manager
Teleplione=^-Schenley 8211
J. C. MAJOR............................................................................ Circulation Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. ,C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, M. S. Downes, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. D. Rossini, V. L. Spencer, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schuclcer.'T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
Laudig, D. Moskovitz, J. W. Metro P. W. Reilly, R. R. Young and H. 
i G-ibson.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes ail communications of student interest, if signed, 
i Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
postoflice-before 4:30.Friday. ________________________________
Tartan Office—Room 5-A, Industries Building. Office hours—Tuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
CHAPEL SERVICES
A wonderful speaker of the Pittsburgh clergy makes a remark­
able address to perhaps fifty members of the faculty and students 
¦giving a message to this small assembly which is worth walking miles 
so hear while but a few hundred feet away a much larger crowd 
spends the time in perching upon a fence -with nothing else to do but 
pass the time until class starts.
j What impression would you have of a school, were you this man, j and had made an address to approximately fifty persons when the 
enrollment of tlie school was between three and four thousand?
The Institute has done everything possible to make the Chapel 
I services interesting as well as instructive and they have succeeded; 
the faculty is setting the right example by turning out strong; the 
“Y” is working hard to get the best speakers obtainable, BUT THE 
i STUDENTS ARE NOT GIVING THE PROPER SUPPORT.
The time has been changed for the Chapel services so that the 
i large number can be accommodated. The services are short and enable 
one sufficient time for lunch. The Chapel service is one of the activi­
ties of the campus. For the good of Carnegie Tech get behind the 
weekly. Chapel services.
EVERYBODY IS CURIOUS TO KNOW
No human quality or weakness whichever it may be, has done 
more for civilization than curiosity; beeausc of it men have found 
new continents; discovered that nature will'do man’s work; learned 
Vow Human curiosity is a part,of our
1 ce up today, just as it was when Adam and Eve were driven from j Garden of Eden; even though we know what the rest of the 
1 Id does from day to day, we still seek information; this peculiar 
j ling to know is the root of civilization, because when our curios- 
i is aroused we wonder, we imagine, we create, in the modem 
i :ase we do things; and therefore the individual who wants to find 
j ¦, who asks questions, is not always a pest, as some of the pro- 
I dors may think; usually it is the .natural instinct curiosity at 
\ rk. The difference between success and failure largely depends 
I what one is interested in or curious about, so it pays to cultivate a 
j tractive or progressive curiosity.
THAT PENN STATE TRIP
Last week a solicitor for the band 
stopped a well-known member of the 
faculty on the campus. He tried to 
sell him a tag for the kilts but every 
manner of salesmanship known to 
'science failed to bring across the de­
sired dollar. Such action does not re­
mind the writer of others of his type. . ____ ______ ______ 
but immediately contrasts him with j tough, that’s all. The team needs 
type of faculty members that make up I your ’support now more than at any
Coin’ to State? Well, it’s a good 
thing that you are, because they’re 
going to need all the support we can 
give them'when they trot out on the 
field against the Lions. Wo got sev­
eral bad breaks last Saturday in the 
way of injuries, and it. weakened the 
team greatly. It is questionable 
whether Cy or Dutch Zelt will be able 
to play, and if they don’t, well, it’s
the largest portion of the teaching 
staff, andv especially that of one de­
partment in the school. It is not nec­
essary to mention the name of the de­
partment. Their actions are noticed 
by everyone. They are for Carnegie 
Tech, and any way of improving con­
ditions are immediately given their 
support. One hundred per cent at­
tendance at chapel, and practically 
the same good showing at football 
games and other activities in which 
the students are interested. Always 
ready to lend support and to give 
things a boost around the campus is 
this one department.
The faculty, in general, is growing 
more and more to take an interest in 
student activities and ways of making 
a better Carnegie Tech. When you 
prominent members of the faculty 
march in a football parade with, the 
students, it makes one feel proud to 
have you connected with the school.
But what of the scores of faculty 
members who never give the activi­
ties of the school a thought? They 
are never the favorites among the 
students and never bring about a good 
word by the student body.
Wouldn’t it be great for Carnegie 
Tech and the student body if every 
department was like one particular 
department and if every faculty mem­
ber had the spirit of the school as is 
noticed in some of the faculty mem­
bers?
Our leader is setting a fine exam­
ple; others ought to follow after him.
ATTEND CLASS REGULARLY
A frequent mistake made by stu­
dents in Valparaiso Tech, and partic­
ularly by the younger ones, is that 
of missing classes, for no reason 
whatsoever. Those just out of high 
school discipline for the ¦first time, 
seem to take great pleasure in stay­
ing away from class, just because 
they can. This is a great mistake.
Each student who enrolls in Valpa- 
naiso pays tuition for the privilege of 
attending class. Then it becomes his 
duty to the one who sends him 
through school to attend class every 
time the class meets. Freshmen seem 
to think it great sport to stay out of 
class because there is no one to keep 
them from it. But that is the very 
thing that keeps it from being good 
sport. It does not take either brains 
or courage to do something which no 
one will try to prohibit your doing.
Look ahead! There are days com­
ing at the end of . the term—examina­
tion J&.j-
you have been absent from class too 
much. You have paid for the priv­
ilege of going to class, so go to class. 
Don't miss the value of the classroom 
work, for which you come here.
—Rewritten from The Valparaiso 
Torch.
It is not, nceessary to m-ge the nlumni and students, to make the 
.11 State trip, because every one who can make the arrangements 
* go; but.we must not forget to show our appreciation for the 
pitality that've enjoyed last year, or do anything when we are 
sts at State College that will mar the friendly feeling now exist-
The Carnegie game js the biggest event on the biggest occasion 
lie year at tills school; next Saturday is Pennsylvania Day, an an- 
.1 celebration at State, in addition it is Armistice Day ; so tliere- 
e, a real holiday which will be worth twice the price of admission.
CARNEGIE-PITT RELATIONS
time this season. What are you go­
ing to do about it?
Allegheny deserves lots of credit on 
a silver plate. It was the first time 
in two years that we were outplayed 
on our own field, and it gave several 
thousand rooters plenty of thrills 
while it happened. But don’t worry. 
Next Saturday is another day, and
Plans For Carnegie 
Day Are Announced
Sir Robert Faulkner to Speak 
at General Assembly in 
Music Hall
Dr. Baker has announced the plans 
for the Carnegie Celebration, and ho 
earnestly looks Cor the support of 
every student. The classes for that 
day, Friday, November 21, will be ex­
cused at 10:30, in order that the stu­
dents may march to the Carnegie 
Music Hall for the assembly at 12:15.. 
Sir Robert Faulkner will be the 
speaker of the occasion, and the music 
will be furnished by the Carnegie 
Men’s Glee Club of one hundred 
voices. The Department of Music will 
present its Symphony Orchestra at 
this time, and in addition to numbers
you’ll see a different team play State by that organization, combined nunv
from the listless.-bunch that fooled 
with Allegheny
Roamer takes his hat off to 
“Greasy” Neal and the W. & J. team, 
the greatest bunch of fighters in the 
United States, bar uone. If there was 
any doubt of their gameness and fight 
after the Carnegie Tech game, it was 
'dispelled last Saturday. Outplayed 
and outscored in the first half, they 
came back and thoroughly licked Jock 
Sutherland’s supposedly invincible 
team. Incidentally it goes a long way 
toward wiping out the sorry game 
with Allegheny, when you figure that 
we outplayed W. & J. on their own 
field. Maybe we haven’t the greatest 
team in the country, but it feels pret­
ty good to be able to say, "Yes. we 
outplayed the best team in the coun­
try all through the game, and would 
have Avon with a little luck.”
hers will be given by the Orchestra 
and Glee Club. Dr. Baker will make 
some announcements, and the meeting 
will close in time for 1:30 classes.
In the afternoon, from <1:30 until 
6:00 there will bo a Carnegie Day Tea 
Dance in the Union. This dance will 
bo held under the auspices of the 
Sophomore class from the College of 
Engineering, and the music will bo 
furnished by the "Black Imps,” a new 
orchestra on the campus.
Dr. Hower Speaks in 
Physics Colloquium
Will Discuss Disintegration of 
Atomic Nuclei Friday
So wo meet. Pitt again next year! 
Well. well. That’s good news. For 
the benefit of those who weren’t here 
when we used to play Pitt every year, 
might mention that it’s the biggest 
game played in Pittsburgh. Tickets 
are as scarce as hen’s teeth, and 
every one in the city tries to get in. 
Last time we played them, they were 
a class AA team, while we were just 
class B. But now that’s all changed. 
Our team is in the same class as 
theirs, and the game will be a tossup 
instead of a sure thing for Pitt. Re* j
On Friday afternoon. November 3rd, 
Professor H. S. Hower reported on 
the meeting of the Optical Society of 
America, recently held in Washington 
at the Bureau of Standards. Professor 
Hower gave some vivid impressions 
of the meetings. He met there a num­
ber of Carnegie Tech men, and men­
tioned that Carl Zobel, one of our 
former physicists, has had an oppor­
tunity to go to Penn to study the 
variations in solar radiations. The 
clear skies of the locality selected
Looks as though we’ll have kilts 
for the Notro Dame game. They’ll 
open their eyes when they see the 
Tech band attired in the proverbial 
Scotch costume, and playing "The 
Kilties Are Coming.”
mnmiini' *1 *¦ w ~ * i givG favorable conditions for such
yea™ * stu<ly' T"° ImI,ora 1,1 th0 Stingsdealt with such subjects as the manu­
facture of lenses, photoelectric effect« 
in a compound of molybdenum, stud­
ies of visual acuity, optical phe­
nomena encountered in meteorology, 
etc. In the course of an interesting 
report on scientific work In Europe, it 
was revealed that the Russian 'Soviet.« 
have placed widespread orders for sci­
entific apparatus. In connection with 
the meetings of the Optical Society, 
an exhibit of optical apparatus was 
held.
On Friday, Novomber 10, Professor 
II. L. Moore will speak on the disinte­
gration of atomic nuclei. This sub- 
¦’Jfrir'is of groat 'lrit'orcist to' stiuiGnts 
of both physics and chemistry. All 
interested are cordially invited to at­
tend the meeting which will bo hold 
at 4:30 in 113, Science.
Suggestions Wanted For 
Distinctive Senior Dress
The announcement that athletic relations with University of 
sburgli is to Ue resumed lias been accepted with satisfaction by 
h institutions; competitions between these schools is most logical, 
I friendly rivalry will be a benefit to each, because it cannot but 
d to develop a greater love for the Alma Mater of all concerned.
hope for continuance of good understanding and co-operation 
N now exists with our neighbors ; for there is much good that can 
îe out of this harmony, owing to the fact that there is so 'much in 
¦rmnn in the ultimate purpose of these great educational institu- 
is.
Student Calendar
- WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8
neral Student Assembly.................................................„11:30, Music Hall
ma—‘‘The Good Hope”.................................................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9
el .................................................................................... 12:50, Arts Theater
a Practice.....................................................................7:00, Carnegie Union
- ama—“The Good Hope”.................................................8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10¦a Dance—M. M. Junior (Tentative).................4:30, Carnegie Union
nee—D. A. V. W. "W.................................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11
£s Country) Pe‘m State versus Carnegie......................................There
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 12
ical Clubs—Glee Club ...........................................................................................,2:30, Exhibition Hall
Mandolin Club..................................2:30, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17
\ Dance—M. M. C. C. Soph-Plebe Dance........4:30, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18 
3SS Country—A. A. U. Allegheny Moùntain Association
Championship ................................................................................3:00, Here
otball--St. Bonaventure vs. Carnegie...“.................2:30, Tech Field
'xo.r.—All Freshmen ....................................................9:30, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24
egie Day.
Dance—Science Sophs.............................................4:30, Carnegie Union
A«e—M. M. A. A..............i.........................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25
ball—Notre Dame vs. Carnegie.................................2:30, Forbes Field
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27
oss Country....................................................National Intercollegiate Meet
I ‘ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29
\\ Club”..........................9:00, Carnegie Union
During the past few years there 
has beon an agitation for a Senior 
Fence for Carnegie Tradition. Closely 
connected with it of late there has 
been one for a ‘‘Distinctive Senior 
Dress." The Senior Fence is as­
sured, an appropriation of one hun­
dred and fifty dollars having been 
made by'the Student Council for its 
construction.
Possibilities for establishing a Sen­
ior custom in the matter of dress 
are being discussed by committees 
in the various divisions. The merits 
of each suggestion will be consid­
ered;
Many want a distinctive vest. 
Others, who consider the financial 
end of the argument, are opposed to 
anything elaborate or costly. If we 
want all Seniors to co-opeyate in the 
wearing of whatever article is decid­
ed upon, the price certainly must be 
reasonable and the design appropri­
ate. It would be a good thing if the 
article decided upon could be worn 
by both men and women.
Here is an idea of what they do 
in a few other schools. At Wash­
ington and Jefferson, the Seniors 
wear a small white ribbon on the 
'coat lapel. At Pitt each class wear3 
a distinctive button. At the Univer­
sity of Tennessee, white sweaters 
are worn. At Illinois, distinctive 
hats. At the University of Pennsyl­
vania, the 'Seniors wear jtheir caps 
and gowns two weeks previous to. 
Commencement. At Michigan, Sen­
iors carry- canes.
Any suggestions from the student 
body will be appreciated.
Dear Roamer:
Have you ever looked under the 
grandstand at the athletic field? If 
you have not, I’d advise you not to, 
because if you ever do, you’ll receive 
a bad shock, from which you might 
never recover. I think, and anyone 
jalaft.ro i.tjlitu s.wift
is used to dump all rubbish, and has 
been for the past year or two. At 
least I’d judge that from the amount 
of stuff that is under there.
Now Roamer, don’t you think this 
gives a black eye to Carnegie Tech? 
There are a lot of people who visit 
these grounds each Saturday and who 
cannot help but see this .“rubbish 
pile.” I think somebody ought to got 
busy and clean it up—what say you?
HANK.
You're right, Hank. I’vo looked un­
der the stands and it sure looks poor. 
Most of it comps from tlio students 
who drop all thoir rubbish under tho 
seats during the football gamos. 
There is no doubt that it looks bad 
to visitors. A word to the wise, otc.
ROAMER.
CHEMIST'S CLUB HEARS
SPEAKERS AT SMOKER
Last Friday at 8:30 P. M. the Chem­
ist’s Club held a smoirer for the in­
troduction of new members in Room 
118 Science. Gray, president of 
the club, introduced the speakers, Dr. 
James, Dr. Alexander, and Dr. Murphy.
Dr. James discussed the American 
Chemical Society and the American 
Institute of Chemical Engineers and
Miners Visit Consumers’ 
Mining Co. Operations
Last Friday, the Senior Mining En­
gineers and the second-year men took 
a trip to the Consumers Mining Com­
pany at Harmarville, Pa. They close­
ly inspected the underground rotary 
dump, underground skip pockets and 
bins, skip hoisting, and the most up- 
to-date type of tipple, which provides 
that the coal may either he loaded 
into gondola cars or into scows in 
the river by means of an endless belt. 
This mine is one of the most efficient 
in this district, and the greater part 
of its output is sent to Steubenville, 
Ohio, to the La Belle Iron Works. 
The coal may be transported either 
by rail or by water, preferably by 
water in season. It is one of the few 
big mines which load the output di­
rectly into scows on the river.
MINING DEPARTMENT NEWS
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
¡
Went to Woods Run to the Pitts­
burgh Screw and Dolt Company'plant 
last Saturday, .and discovered many 
things that I' did not know before. 
Of these, from tho Carnegie Tech 
point of view, the most important was 
tho finding of four C. I. T. graduates— 
had only expected to find one! A 
pleasant surprise, it must be admit­
ted.
Of further importance, It was dis- 
covored that this plant is truly a 
great one. It. is scientifically aNud 
most efficiently managed. It lias 
many novel features. It is an engi- 
nering feat, in construction which is 
surely deserving of considerable men­
tion.
That this plant is great, is pleasing 
to all Carnegie Tech men, because 
Carnegie Tech men practically plan­
ned, constructed and arranged the 
layout of the entire plant. And, when 
’tis said that it is the largest in the 
world, producing all sizes of nuts, 
screws, bolts and rivets, the achieve­
ment of these four Carnegie Tech 
men is all the more appreciated.
Of those J. II. McKee, '0!), is the 
most important. 1-Ie is chief engineer, 
and in complete charge of all con 
crete buildings and constructions, the 
general shop lay-out, and changes in 
production methods. It was lie who 
planned the plant and then built it. 
It was his idea to so layout tlio ma­
chines that production could be car­
ried on step by step from tho raw ma­
terial to tho finished product, ready 
for shipment, starting at one side of
the plant, and moving straight across 
the building to tho other side, where 
eight hundred feet of railroad cars 
can bo loaded at one time. It was his 
ideas that have saved large amounts 
of power by placing different groups 
of machines in group control and in­
dividual control. It was ho who built 
the elllcient boilor and power plant 
out over the river.
Mr. G. S. Smith, M0, as master me­
chanic. specializes in machine design, 
and has created a number of ma­
chines. which are daily proving tho 
wisdom of his ideas. Of equal import­
ance also is James II. Renter, Night 
Sc\iool graduate, who takes care of 
all electrical improvements, and who 
laid out the entire electrical works. 
D. J. McFarland, class of '13, is as­
sistant engineer.
It is of further interest to note 
that in the construction of the plant, 
only one man was called in to aid, 
and that one, another Carnegie Tech 
alumnus,' Henderson, who will bo 
heard from later through this column.
Tho untechnical nature of this 
treatment forbids my treading upon 
the grounds of tho Technical Journal, 
but let us remember to TALK CAR­
NEGIE TECI-I whenever you can, at 
all times, for surely she is worthy.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
Second Annual Armistice 
Dance Held in Union, Friday
The second Annual Armistice 
Dance to be given by Tech Chapter 
of the Disabled American Veterans 
of the World’s War, is to bo held in 
tho Union on Friday night, November 
10th.
Those who attended tho Armistice 
Dance last year know that It was one 
of the best dances ever held on tho 
campus. This year the committee in 
charge promises to have something 
new and something different in tho 
way of dances—a novelty danco that 
has never beon seen before on tho 
campus.
Music for tho occasion is to bo fur­
nished by the American Legion Nino 
Piece Orchestra. There will be unlquo 
decorations. Favors will bo given to 
everyone. Como and see.
Price SrBB1 be $1.50 per couple, hut 
patrons will receive twice thoir 
money’s worth. Don't forgot tho date, 
you’ll rogrot it if you'ro not thoro.
Chaporons for tho occasion are to 
bo Mr. and Mi's. John T. Morris and 
Mr. and Mrs. William Pfauts.
spection trips in their near future 
and also several social evenings.
MAGGIE MURPH IS YOUR
NAME ON THE BULLETIN?
Tho Maggie Murplis have boon em­
ploying a novel method in endeavor­
ing to get girls to go to Penn State. 
The names of all girls possessing 
tickets are taken and are posted on a 
special bulletin. Thus, the Maggie 
Murplis can see at once which of 
their “friends” is not going and, no 
doubt, proceed to remind them of it.
Sclonco Prof.: What Is velocity?
Frosh: Tho thing with which you
lets go a wasp.'
Committee to Lengthen
Skirt of Band’s Kilts
Tho kil.ts are a reality and tho com- 
mltteo litis Just discovered that a fow 
important details In connection with 
the wearing of tho kilts have boon 
loft untouched. Ono of tho most Im­
portant details was brought to tho at­
tention of the manager of tho band 
when ono fair skinned member of tho 
brass aggregation broached him with 
the question “How will wo lcoop our 
knees warm?”
Quite true! The manager had never 
given the idea of some sort of knee 
covering a thought and the expression 
on the face of the questioner clearly 
indicated that- there were suro to bo 
others who would suffer from tho 
zephyrs of cold November when tho 
Plaid gridders- met the eleven of 
Knute Rockne.
A committee has now been appoint­
ed for the exclusive purposo of deter­
mining some means whereby the 
knees of the members of the band will 
be protected against the elements of 
nature. To facilitate the work of the 
committee, a questionnaire has been 
circulated among the members of the 
band to determine the advisability of 
issuing a uniform knee pad to each 
and every member of the band.
From the entire returns of the ques­
tionnaire, it was found that the. knees 
of the band were very tender. Only a 
few had kneeled before their loved 
one in vain attempt so often that their 
knees were calloused, and since the 
majority liad either never attempted 
The first issue of the Alumni BulIe-„ to propose to a fair one, or had been 
tin of the Co-operative Mining so decidedly turned down that they 
Courses in the Department of Mining hesitated to make another attempt, 
and Metallurgy is ready for the press, the committee decided that the knees 
and as soon as it is printed, copies need considerable protection. For fur- 
will be sent to all the graduates in tlier data on the condition of the 
this department. This bulletin will knees, the chairman of the committee 
be published quarterly throughout the on investigation visited the Chapel 
school year. I Services last week, but obtained no
Its purpose is to get a complete ' report, owing to the fact that only one 
roster of the graduates in respect to member of the band was there. The 
what they are doing, and the com-.member present certainly could not
ARTECK CLUB HOLDS FIRST
INITIATION OF YEAR NOV. 3
On Friday evening, Novombor 3,1 
the Arfceck'Oliih o'f ihb ' Do partniott t oT 
Applied .Art, held Its first Initiation 
of tho year. Tlio following now mem­
bers wGro taken: William Adair,
Bort Mahan and (Clement Smith,
The Arteclc Is an organization com* 
posed of tho moil, faculty and stu­
dents of. tho Applied Art Depart­
ment, It was organized hist year for 
tho purposo of obtaining bettor co* 
oporatlon botwoon tho faculty and 
^tudonts of tlio department, and to 
help tho students In their work.
The Artock Is planning several In*
f Start the f
| Week Right f
ICluir® on Sunday XV 'X puts new pop into Mon- £ 
;j; day, Tuesday, Wedues- 
day—till Sunday comes £ 
again. Try it and seo.
Church I
if FORBES AND X
BOQUET :|:
“Fifty stops from tlie X 
campus”
Frank’s Restaurant
4527 FORBES STREET
Under New Management—Former Tech Man. 
Cleanest and Best Home Cooking 
DELICIOUS PASTRIES 
Luther G-. Dauth, Proprietor.
be taken to represent the entire mem­
bership of the band.
Anottier phase of the investigation 
by the committee included a Visit to 
the police department. There, sufll-
pany with which they are located. On 
the other hand this bulletin will keep 
them in touch with the current events 
of the department. The main subjects 
of interest in this issue include the
enrollment in the mining classes; the dent data on the number of arrests 
Introduction of the four new research 1 that were made for “appearing on the 
men, J. N. Stand, Penn State College; street without sufficient dross," 
J. A. Adams, Cornell University, 1022; | brought tho committee to tho conelu- 
mentloned the desirability of a Chem- J. H. Thompson, University of Wash- slon that something must be worn if li 
ist’s Club Room, stating that he had I ington and Y. F. Parry, University of were nothing more than a laco Houn’co 
secured permission from Director Utah, 1922; and the steady increase to cover up the pink knee.
Mott to use the former offices under 
Room 218.
Dr. Alexander remarked upon the 
professional atmosphere of such a 
club room and Dr. Murphy discussed 
the importance of clubs upon under­
graduate life.
The program was filled out by 
music, stunts, and refreshments, all 
of which were of good quality. The 
attendance was very big and the 
Chemist’s Club expects a most suc­
cessful season.
in the amount of equipment in the Only a meager report has been 
Mining Laboratory, most important of j made by the committee, but tho Tar- 
which Is the donation of Westlnghouse ; tan deems It wise to comfort the band 
seven ton electric locomotive, trolley, men with the thought that some pro­
type. tection will be furnished the knees.
Last Thursday evening employes of However, should the committee ultl- 
tbe Bureau of Mines gave a dinner In mately decide to furnish no protection, 
the Bureau Building in honor of Dr. j the only remedy is to toughen the 
H. Foster Bain. Dr. Bain is the Di-j knees, either by saying your prayers 
rector of the Bureau of Mines at every day instead of just when you 
Washington, D. C., and is head of all are in trouble, or by being brave when 
branches, such as the one here in. you go to see her next time and tell 
Pittsburgh. her that you cannot live without her.
"Designing in Masses’
The ¡’¡¡Is liiiiliHiip,, New Y orli Cliy 
CAIUlßRIi & HASTINGS 
Arcliltccia
T
HE new architecture transcend« detail and expresses 
the component solids of tlie great buildings of today 
and tomorrow. Gigantic profiles are reared against the 
sky—true expression of structural facts has now come 
into its own in architectural design, linking architect and 
engineer ever more closely together.
Certainly modern invention—modem engineering skill 
and organization^v/ill prove more than equal to the 
demands of the architecture of the future.
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of.thcWorld
*1

---------------------------------------------------

IWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
DITIHC
The PersonaiyJrìt'mg Machine
B
UY it Corona on our 
35.00 a month plnn. 
Phone us NOW for a frco 
demonstration.
Standard Typewriter Co. 
129 5th Avc. Court 343.
a month
RADIO
[3 Brad ley stats .........................$1.85 Ej
H Radio Storage Batteries
a (Guaranteed).........$12 and $14 a
ACORN STORAGE 
m BATTERIES COMPANY §
1 4521 FORBES STREET j§
| I Phone Schenley 4545.
M Electrical Auto
§ Supplies Accessories j|]
PLAID ATHLETICS
DYKEMAN MAKES FAST TIME 
IN WINNING FIRST PLACE AT 
SYRACUSE INVITATION MEET
Tartans Take Fifth Place in Meet With 
Columbia, Cornell, State, Syracuse 
and Colgate
DECISIVELY TRIMS HIGGINS
Running against a field of crack distance men, Dykeman finished in firfet 
place for Carnegie Tech at the Syracuse Invitation Meet last Saturday. 1-Ie 
covered the 'first mile in the fast time of 4:53 and at the finish decisively 
trimmed Higgins of Columbia, a former Intercollegiate champion and crack 
distance man. The remainder of the Plaid squad failed <0 hold their own, 
and as a result Carnegie Tech was fifth in the team score. Cornell won the 
meet with 42 point, with Columbia second, Syracuse third, Penn State fourth, 
Carnegie Tech fifth and Colgate sixth.
The course over which the race was 
run was somewhat more hilly than 
the Tartans were accustomed to, and 
much of it was through tall grass 
plowed fields. The pace set was 
as the time for the first mile indicates.
On Saturday, at State College, the 
Plaid harriers will meet the Penn 
¡State squad in a dual meet. This will 
likely be a closely contested affair 
since the Nittany men finished just 
ahead of the Skibos at Syracuse.
The first ten to finish at Syracuse 
were as follows: Dykeman, Carnegie 
Tech, first; Higgins, Columbia, sec- 
-ond; Case, Syracuse, third;, Gordon,
Cornell, fourth; Moore, Columbia, 
fifth; Rodriguez, Syracuse, sixth;
Smith, Cornell, seventh; Morrison 
Cornell, eighth; Skeats, Columbia, 
ninth; Williams, Cornell, tenth.
FALL UNDERWEAR 
We Have Your,Style and Size.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
I Beeler, All-Around 
Athlete of Florida
ALLEGHENY—A SURPRISEI
That’s what it was and the dope was all scattered to the winds! Fol­
lowers of the Plaid were expecting that we would luive an easy time of it 
against the Methodists, although our able scout, Bob Waddell, declared that 
they were a tough proposition and stronger than Grove City. They clearly 
outplayed our red eleven and should have won on merits, but football 
victories are not won that way but on actual scores. We have been credited 
with some moral victories over big teams but it doesn’t mean anything for 
the actual score was against us.
Nevertheless we must give the boys from Meadville credit for having a 
wonderful team and a great improvement over their showing last year. 
Their coach, Herb McCracken, an old Pitt star, is evidently beginning to 
get some results.
TO STATE TO WIN
The Slogan sounds good but the next thing is to fulfill it. Allegheny 
was rather rough on Saturday and as a result several of our men are out 
with injuries g,nd at least one will be out for the rest of the season. Cy 
Comfort has an injured knee, Dutch Zelt a twisted leg and Red Godden is 
out for the season with a broken ankle. This means that Wally must nurse 
his team along this week and still put them through a stiff workout in prep­
aration for the Nittany Lions on Saturday.
However, we’re sure it’s going to be the start of a grand battle up in 
Center county when the whistle blows on Saturday afternoon. If that special 
train isn’t crowded, there’s somethin wrong with the old Tech spirit for 
we’re never beaten until we’re licked. So let’s go "TO STATE TO WIN.”
GODDEN—FOUR-LETTER MAN
Red Godden, one of the few Plaid four-letter men, was injured in such
a way on Saturday that he will be unable to play the rest of the season.
This is his fourth year on the team and therefore Red is through with col­
legiate football. He has had a most brilliant athletic career during his stay 
at Carnegie Tech, winning the Plaid “C” in basket ball, baseball and hockey 
as well as on the gridiron.
. The story goes that Red never played football before he came to Pitts­
burgh, but “Wally” Steffen discovered him and developed his inherent qual­
ities until with his team-mate, Don Potter, he is rated as one of the best ends 
in the game. Two years ago there was a shortage of baclcfield material, and 
Steffen put him in at halfback where he acquitted himself most creditably. 
“Red”- is an alert, speedy player, protecting the Tartan flanks well on the 
defensive and often coming in on offensive play with a puzzling criss-cross 
play. In baseball and hockey he was also considerable of a star.
The name of Godden will surely hold a high place in the Plaid hall of
fame for all time. -
H. E. DYKEMAN
TARTANS HELD TO LOW
SCORE BY ALLEGHENY
::" Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ........0:45 A.M.
College Men’s Bible
Class .......................10:00 A.M. :
• Preaching service ... 7:00 P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies .................. 7:00 P.M. •
Preaching Service ... 8:00 P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
FIRST PLACE
At the Syracuse Invitation Meet—that’s what our crack distance runner, 
Dykeman, turned in. Incidentally he showed his heels to some of the best 
collegiate distance runners in the East. The rest of the team did not quite 
come up to expectations. However, it looks as though we might be fostering 
a possible Intercollegiate cross-country champion.
COMMENTS
How about a little more efficient and accurate keeping of the score­
board? It’s the only way the average spectator has of keeping trade of the 
plays.
Old Man Dope sure got hit hard on Saturday. Camp lmd Nebraska 
picked to win over Syracuse and look what happened. W. & J.’s victory over 
Lafayette, Penn’s defeat by Alabama, and our own game were all more or 
less upsfets of the dope.
State’s going to be fighting mad next Saturday after being trampled by 
the Navy. The old Lion sure will roar.
We’re glad to note that we’re back on friendly terms again with our 
neighbors across the hollow and long may it last! Let’s go Pitt with some 
real good spirited rivalry and work together to bring the athletic Golden 
Fleece to the Smoky City.
TWO PENN STATE STARS
ST. ANDREW’S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Center and Morewood Avenues.
Henry P. Eckhardt, Pastor.
Services: 10:45 A. M. and 7:45 
P. M. All seats free. On and 
after October 29, there will be a 
4:30 Vesper Service instead of 
at 7:45 P. M. Sunday School 
and Bible Classes for adults and 
young people, 9:30 A. M. The 
Church extends a cordial wel­
come to all students of Tech.
At the 
Assembly. 
The
BLACK
IMPS
(Continued From Page One.) 
the Plaid team. Forward passes, end 
runs, and line bucks were all used, 
and in the majority of the plays thoy 
gained ground. In the third quarter, 
Robertson fumbled a punt, and Alle­
gheny recovered the ball, and on the 
next play rushed the ball to the four 
yard line. The Tartan line then 
held' for three downs and on the
fourth down the ball was recovered 
by Qarnegie Tech. This averted 
score; but shortly afterward
Robertson fumbled the ball 
a bad pass from Irwin, and Allegheny 
recovered on the 20-yard line. On 
tlio next play Weaver ran around
right end for a touchdown, but the ball
was brought back and Allegheny penal­
ized fifteen yards for holding. The 
final whistle soon sounded with the 
ball in Carnegie’s possession on the 
27-yard line.
It_would be difficult to pick any 
stars on the Allegheny team because 
every man played excellent ball. An­
derson's work for Carnegie was bril­
liant, and it was due. to his work 
that the Allegheny, aerial attack was 
broken up. One of the most spec­
tacular plays of the game occurred 
in the fourth quarter when Parnell 
standing on the 50-yard line hurled 
the ball 55 yards the ball landing 
five yards in back of the goal posts.
Allegheny gained 204 yards against 
144 yards for the Plaid and had the 
ball in their ¦ possession for 36 min­
utes against .24 for th<3 Tartans. The 
Methodists J completed six of their 
fifteen attempts at forward passes, 
gaining 65 yards while two were in­
tercepted by Captain Anderson.
The lineup:
Tech—7. Allegheny—0.
Potter ............ .L. E... Looniia (C.) j
Zelt.^ i||^
Comfort 
Irwin ..
Rosenbloom
Has Successful Career as 
High School Mentor. To 
Coach Cross Country
Paul Beeler, who is coaching the 
Tartan cross-country team and the 
Plebe football team this fall, has had 
a varied and successful experience 
both as athlete and coach. Ho won 
his varsity letter in four branches of 
sports at tlio University of Florida, 
being a star in football, basket ball, 
baseball apd track; and was captain 
of the varsity basket ball team in his 
last year at school. IIo was a crack 
baseball player, and turned down nu­
merous offers from Glass A minor 
league clubs, in order to follow coach­
ing more closely.
TARTAN FOOTBALL MACHINE 
FACES PENN STATE ELEVEN 
IN CRUCIALTEST OF SEASON
Penn State Determined to Win Because 
of Tie With Syracuse and Defeat By 
Navy. Carnegie Tech Squad 
in Crippled Condition
TEAMS PRIMED FOR BATTLE
One week ago the Armistice Day game with Penh State looked encour­
aging to the Carnegie student body, but after the Allegheny score of last 
Saturday, naturally there is a decided retreat of optimism prevailing around 
the campus. That game not only resulted in a close victory but it also added 
several casualties to the team. It is most unfortunate that such accidents 
should occur at this vital period of the season.
“Rod” Godden, star end, was unfortunate in having his leg badly broken. 
“Red” is needed and it will be a difficult job for Coach Steffen to find a man 
that will begin to play tlio standard of football displayed by this man during 
the last three years.
“Cy” Comfort, the husky left tackle and sure kicker of goals after touch­
down, had his knee wrenched seriously enough to lcoep him out of practice 
for a few days and possibly out of the big game this week.
Captain Anderson again suffered an 
injured shoulder, and it is hoped that 
the ligaments will heal quickly in 
order for him to hold down his regu­
lar backlleld position. Other injuries, 
chiefly minor in character, may hand­
icap the team. But Wally Steffen 
is a resourceful coach and will no 
dombt bo able to fill all gaps satis­
factorily and prove to the throng of 
ardent supporters that he has at his 
command not only a first string team 
but also a well balanced list of sub­
stitutes who can jump into these po­
sitions as though they had been var­
sity men all year.
Looking at the team from a
Plaid Plebes Lose to 
Greensburg Gridders
Plebes Unable to Penetrate 
Opponents’ Line
Tlio Tartan Plobes played a lmrd- 
fought game against Greensburg 
High last Saturday at Greensburg but 
lost to tlio tune of 12-0. Greensburg 
scored their first touchdown in the 
opening quarter, when Hull circled 
left end for 12 yards and crossed the brighter viewpoint, more Is Jimmy
PAUL BEELER
Beeler has had considerable success 
as a coach in college, normal school 
and high schools. I-Io began Ills ca­
reer as coach at the Nebraska Stato 
Normal School, from where ho wont 
to Washington, Pa. At that placo he 
had charge of the coaching of tlio 
Washington and Jefferson varsity 
baseball team, and all branches of 
sport at Washington High school,
During the two years of his stay at 
Washington, ho turned out champion­
ship teams. In 1918 he wont to Johns­
town, whore ho had a very successful 
season with the football team. Tlio 
next two years, however, his teams 
were mediocre, duo to the fact that 
ho luid lost nearly all of his moil tlio 
previous year, and tlio material was 
poor. During these two years ho 
worked hard developing now men, 
and last your lie-turned out one of tlio 
best teams of his career. While at 
Johnstown, Beeler was also superin- 
dent of recreation for four yours.
It is interesting to note somo ol! tlio 
men turned out by Coach Beeler In 
this vicinity who lator became stars 
on eollogo teams. Among thorn were, 
our own Irwin and Zolt, who lmvo 
been playing hangup games for Car­
negie this year; Gurblsch, former cap­
tain of Washington and Jefferson and 
now with tlio Army; West., star half­
back at Wash-Jeff; Rodlngor, of Penn 
Stato, and Hartnett and Wissingor of 
Pitt. Benny Kristof, who Is making 
such a strong bid for a varsity berth 
iit Carnegie this year, and Joe Christ­
off, tlio spoody quarterback of the 
Plobes, wero on Beeler’s champion­
ship team hist year.
¦ Coach Beeler has turned out win­
ning track teams tlio last couple of 
years and in addition to coaching tlio 
cross-country and Freshman football 
teams, will have charge of the varsi­
ty track next year. The Plebo foot­
ball team is somewhat handicapped 
because the. Freshman rule has not 
gone into effect this year; but next 
season Beeler will have a chance to 
turn out first-class teams. From pres- Tech Students and Alumni arc in- 
ont Indications llu> engiiEcmont ot vl(ed to c>„ al the ginger Pcn & Gift
Coach Beeler is a big boost for Tar- _ . ,_____________  i„„
tan athletics and he doubtless will
Plebes’ goal line. Hull again scored 
in tlio final quarter when ho received 
a forward pass from Guarino and ran 
10 yards for a touchdown. Groons- 
burg failod to gain the points after 
touchdown.
The Plebos started off near the end 
of the third quarter and registered 
several first downs In a row. At tlio 
beginning of tlio last quarter thoy 
negotiated nnothor 10 yards and then 
a forward pass to Cook nottod fifteen 
yards and placed tlio ball on Groons- 
burg’s 10-yard lino. Van Alta hit tho 
lino for a yard and on another at­
tempt gained two more. Cook was 
thrown for a two-yard loss and Christ­
off, who substituted for Cook, was 
also thrown for a loss on tho next 
play. It. was tlion Greonsburg’s ball 
on their own 10-yard lino.
For tlio Plebos, Krainor, Morgan, 
A nut us and Van Attn wero tho out­
standing stars wliilo Hull, CJuarino, 
Domoiso and Doolinor wore tho bright 
lights for Greensburg. The game was 
tho host soon in Greensburg in a long 
wliilo and was witnossod by a crowd 
of -i.OOO people,
The lineup:
Greensburg Highrocli Plobos. 
... Krainor
........ Rood
.... Scholl 
. Campbell 
........... Cass
,.,,. Beodo 
... Morgan
.......... Cook
....... Amans
, ..."Van Atta 
. Mohrmau
Truxoll ........ ...I*. E...
Kurts .................L. T...
McCulmn ...........L. G...
Boolinoi? ..............O....
Tozzi ..................R. G...
Roso ....................II. T...
Domolso .............U. 13...
Marsh ................Q. IL..
Goulding ............L. I-I...
Charlosworth . .R. 11.. •
Guarino ..............F. 13...
Substitutions — Prodmoro for Casa. 
McCarty for Cook, Escli for McCarty, 
Cass for Rood, Cook for A ninna, 
Christoff for Cook, Daniels for Chrlst- 
off; Muli for Guarino, Guarino for 
Goulding, Hershonborger for Guarino, 
Guarino for Marsh. Touchdowift—- 
Hull 2. Reforoo—Sehreck, W. & J. 
Umpiro *— Cadigany Syracuse. Head 
linesmun—Robinson. Timo of quar- 
tors—15 minutes.
turn out winning combinations.
HARRY WILSON 
Half Back
"TINY” McMAHON 
Tackle.
.L. T________ Parneil
.L. G.................... Kerr
...C.................. Fuller*
...R. G........
Watching Our Opponents
Three more games, two of major importance, are on the Tartan schedule.
.................. Woïtzj Only one of these will be played on the home field; on November 18, the
Sprinkle ............R. T................ Byliam ’ gridders from St. Bonaventure College will tackle the . Plaid iri the latter’s
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - -- -- -- - $300,000.00 
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Godden ..............R. E............... Judd
Robertson ............Q.............!.. Worley
Andetson (;C.) . .L. H.................Miller
Lamb .................R. H............ Hanlon
Brumbaugh..........F........................Dahl
Score by periods:
Tech ........................... ..................7 0 0 0—7
Allegheny ....01 0 0 0—0
Touchdown—Tech, Potter. Try for 
point—Tech, Robertson by placement. 
Substitutions—Tech, Gilbert for Com­
fort,' Melfort for Godden, Kristof for 
Zelt. Allegheny—Weaver for Hanlon, 
Hanlon for Weaver, Weaver for Han­
lon, Seybold for Miller. Officials— 
Referee, Daugherty, W and J.; um­
pire, Wymard, Georgetown; head 
linesman, Egan, Duquesne. Time of 
quarters—15 minutes.
PLAID SEEKS VICTORY
AT PENN STATE
(Continued From Page One.) 
don't let the lack of the price of 
the railroad ticket hold you back. 
Get to -State. That is the main 
idea. Hit the highways if you 
haven't the money, but for the sake 
of the team be there to • yell your 
lungs out. TO STATE TO WIN. 
Let that be your slogan from now 
until the opening whistle sends the 
steam roller of Wally Steffen against 
the seldom defeated eleven of Hugo 
Bezdek.
bowl. This week, Carnegie meets Penn State in what will probably prove 
one of the best games of the season. The advance sale of seats indicates 
that a record crowd will be present to see Steffen’s men fighting against 
Coach Rockne’s Notre Dame warriors, at Forbes Field, November 25.
Penn State ...........................................28 William and Mary ..........................-.. 0
Penn State .'.....................................20 Gettysburg ............................................ 0
Penn State .........................................-.-32 Lebanon Valley ........................... 6
Penn State-.......................................33 Middlebury ........................................... 0
Penn State ...................................... 0 Navy ........................................................14
St. Bonaventure ................................... 0 Penn State ............................................54
St. Bonaventure ......................................0 Army ......................................................53
Notre Dame ...........................................46 Kalamazoo ........................................... 0
Notre Dame ...........................................26 St. Louis ............................................... 0
Notre Dame ............................. .20 Perdue ................................................... 0
Notre Dame .........................................'34 DePauw .................................................. 7
Notre Dame ...........................................13 Georgia Tech .................................. 3
Notre. Dame ........................................27 Indiana .................................................. 0
NINTH LIFE INSURANCE
TERM BEGINS WORK
Continued From Page One) 
change, in that no certificates will 
be given until one has completed one 
year of practical work in the field 
of insurance.
In addition to the six hundred 
graduates, the faculty of the Life 
Insurance School has conducted two 
summer schools in California, one at 
San Francisco and the other at Los 
Angeles. At these two schools two 
hundred and twenty-five Btudents 
have received certificates. These 
schools, although having the entire 
Insurance School faculty, were not 
associated with Carnegie Tech.
The object of the school is not 
only to acquaint the student with the
theoretical side of Life Insurance 
Salesmanship, but to give him tho 
practical side as well, teaching him I [¿am 
how to actually sell. “Tho Indicator,” 
a magazine devoted to the interests 
of insurance, said In a recent edi­
torial: “No effort is being spared to
maintain the school; in the front as an 
infvtitution for vocational training.
The successful record of its hundreds 
of graduates is its best indorsement.”
Intercollegiate Basket Ball 
League Being Formed
A Tri-state Intercollegiate Basket 
Ball League is being rapidly formed 
by the athletic managers of Alle­
gheny, Bethany, Duquesne, Geneva, 
Grove City, Carnegie Tech, Thiel, 
Washington and Jefferson, Waynes- 
burg, Westminster and West Virginia. 
A constitution lias been drawn up and 
the léague will be effective as soon as 
it is ratified.
Plans for this league were formed 
at a meeting last spring called by 
Manager Glover of Geneva College. 
At that time a committee consisting 
of Haaren, Glover and Boyd of Beth­
any was appointed to draw up a con­
stitution. The committee met on Oc- 
to her 30, and a suitable constitution 
was formed which will be effective 
when ratified by eight of the colleges 
in the agreement. Affirmation must 
be given by December 1.
The league will regulate the sched 
ules of the member colleges and will 
present a trophy to the championship 
Forty per cent of tho basket 
ball games must bo played away from 
home.
A president and a socrel.ary-l.reas* 
urer make up tho ofilcors of tho or­
ganization.
“Look mo straight in the eyes, dear­
est.”
“No, you don’t! I’ve had that hap­
pen to me once before.”
Prof: "Why aren’t you taking
notes?”
Frosh: “I don’t have to; I have my 
grandfather’s.”
BAND TO GET APPROPRIATION
FOR KILTS AND STATE TRIP
(Continued from Page One)' 
Senate was read and accepted. Owing 
to the pressure of his school work, 
Mr. Ames felt that it would be neces­
sary to witndraw from some of his ac­
tivities and has resigned as pres! 
dent of the Science Senate, which 
position gave him his seat on the 
Council.
Shop to see their large display of 
Fountain Pens: Swan, Parker, Conk­
lin, Waterman, Sheaffer, etc.
I DANCING1 The I Rittenhouse I
H EVERY SATURDAY—9 P. M. || 
& if 
«mmmtmœœtœœœœœœœœœ*»
Robertson all primed to put his best 
into the deciding battio of the sea­
son; and Al Weirmnn is only wait­
ing » to show his ability to run tho 
team in case “Jimmy” should bo un­
able to play tho entire game. Brum­
baugh Is in tho host of condition 
and tlioro is no guess about how 
hard ho can plunge through tlio holes 
made by Sprinkle Zolt, Rosen bloom | 
and Gilbert. Potter seldom fails to 
malto a taolclo or gain a first 
down when tho opportunity prosouls 
itself. Every playor is full of fight 
and "Wally” novor losos confidence 
in them.
What Hugo Bozdok lias in store for 
tlio lug game few of us know. Ho 
Is known an tho mentor who can 
spring a surprise, hut unless ho can, 
all Indications point to a holly con­
tesi od battio. Whothor Mils battici 
will lio a niatoli ol' strategy and wits 
of StofL’on versus Bezdek, or whothor 
II. will depend upon tlio teamwork 
and tlio physical endurance of i.ho 
players is a matter for tho crowds 
at Ilio iHid(vliuos to judge.
Pomi’.Stato in not in Ilio host ol! 
oouil I Lion to tackle a team of tliolr 
own rating because of tlio in J urlo« 
received In Hie last two ganios, 
liamoly, tlioso whlth Syracuse and 
Navy. Captain Bent/, had a bad 
shouidor and Tiny McMahon sl.iil 
limp's from a bruised foot.
Harry Wilson is tho giant of tlio 
backflold and so far this season has 
scored tho majority of State’s points’. 
Wilson is a veteran hack fielder and 
lie now has it running mate In Marl 
Kralz, a light but dependable half­
back. Mike Palm will probably run 
ilio toum from Ids position at quar­
terback. 1-Ie has an educated too, 
which might have some bearing on 
the final score.
Unless there is some sudden shift 
of Hie team, Hugo will use the same 
men that started the game with tlio 
Naval Academy. Captain Bentz at 
center, Hamilton at left guard and 
Tiny McMahon at right tackle.
Those who saw the game at Penn 
State last season will remember tho 
big boy "Tiny,” who stands six feet 
seven inches high and weighs over 
two hundred pounds. He will face 
1-Iugli Sprinkle of the Carnegie lino 
and their scriinmage will be a game 
in itself.
McCoy is a speedy end and he 
plays a sensational game when the 
team is forced to do forward passing. 
| Penn State’s line and backfleld are 
a little heavier than Carnegie Tech’s, 
but since the two teams do not use 
the same style of play this difference 
in weight may mean nothing.
It should also be remembered that 
Killinger, demon groundgainer, is no 
longer there to be feared.
Penn State has not lost a game on 
itsi home field for many years, and 
until Navy beat thorn last Friday 
they had not lost a game in three 
years. So much the more would 
these men figlit to keep up the rccr 
ord of Beaver Field.
Last year Carnegie put over tho 
first touchdown of the game which 
ended in a 28 to 7 victory for State. '
RTSOAPATGLLVUAVYG 
Ho matter where you go, 
eaot, weot, north, oouth, j 
we can provide you with 
traveler«’ checka which 1 
will assure the safety of 
your fundn. They arc ex- 
changeable anywhere 
without further trouble or 
expense. Call, or write 
our Steamohip Agency j 
which ia a part of our or­
ganization.
Mellon National BankOliver Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1922
HARRISBURG CLAN MEETS
On Wednesday, November 1, the 
Harrisburg Clan held a good lively 
luncheon and meeting, at which there 
were twelve members present. The 
meting »resulted in the election of xthe 
following officers for the coming year: 
President, Gerald B. Whitney; secre­
tary, Mrs. Anna G.- Green; treasurer, 
James W. Minnick.
Interest in the game with Penn 
State on November 11 is high, and 
from all indications there will be 
about fifteen or twenty loyal Techites 
there to represent Harrisburg.
CHICAGO CLAN TO GIVE
DINNER FOR STEFFEN
The Chicago Clan is planning a 
dinner for “Wally" Steffen when he 
returns to the city to assume his 
duties as Judge of the Superior 
Court after a very strenuous and 
successful season at Carnegie Tech. 
All who expect to be anywhere near 
Chicago the' last week in- November 
get in touch with Nelson P. Rice, 
7015 Greenview avenue, Chicago, 111.
\ IYOUNGSTOWN WOMEN’S —
CLAN HELD MEETING
A meetings of the' girls' Clan of 
Youngstown was held on Saturday aft-
CARNEGIE SONG BOOK
NEEDS CONTRIBUTIONS
A report from the committee which 
is compiling the new Song Book states 
that there is a marked scarcity of 
good material. There is a lot of room 
for improvement over the material 
which lias been sent in, and contribu­
tions would be gladly accepted. The- 
committee also states that it is un­
able to get the original copies of some 
of the old songs, such as “Dear Old 
Tech,” and without these they cannot 
publish the songs, for they are not 
allowed to re-write and publish them. 
If anyone has a copy of the original, 
or knows where one could be found, 
the committee desires that they be no­
tified. • Contributions may be made
ernoon, October 21, at the home of 
Mrs. John Eaton, 313S Logan avenue, 
Youngstown, Ohio.
There was an excellent representa­
tion, about twenty members being 
present, from Youngstown, New Cas­
tle, Warren, Sharon and Lowellville.
The meeting was featured by an 
address delivered by Mr. George Todd 
in an able and spirited manner, fol­
lowed by much interested discussion. 
The president of the clan expressed 
her appreciation of this courtesy.
A delicious luncheon was served by 
the committee.
New officers chosen for the current 
1922-23 season, were: Miss Caix-e
Tod, president; Miss Bernice Pickens, 
secretary; Miss Florence A. Flinn, 
reporting secretary.
CLANS SEND IN YOUR NEWS
Clans. We need more news—a 
great deal more—about what you are 
doing. A little has come in, but 
some of it did not go through the 
Alumni Office. In order that it may 
also go into the “Alumnus, please 
send it to A- J- Hynd, Alumni Office, 
C. I. T.
One of the functions of a clan sec­
retary is to send in news, personal 
notes, happenings opinions, sugges­
tions, etc.
Put the spark of life back into the 
organization. News is its life blood.
direct to the committee in charge or 
through the Tartan.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Anj' Style. \ All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
£„ M. Staiift
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
I*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE**
*¦
“When a Feller 
needs a Friend”
Did you ever start to re­
view your lecture notes for 
the “mid-years” and find 
you couldn’t read half of 
them ? Then is the time you 
will wish you had written 
them on a
PLAIDSEKD
VKCETORL
A few minutes spent in typing after each 
lecture hour will do the trick. And don’t 
overlook the time this machine will save in 
typing your themes, theses, papers, and all 
your writing.
Standard Keyboard—the most complete 
portable typewriter—fits in case 
only four inches high. Price, com­
plete with case, $60.
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER 
COMPANY, INC.
102 SIXTH STREET 
Bessemer Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA..
Paragon ribbons for Remington Portable Typewriters
jee each — $5 a dozen
Varsity Clan Committee 
Takes Up Annual Banquet
V„ NOTICE—PLEBES, SOPHS 
* ---------
?I- PJebes and Sophomores, inter- *!• 
v ested in the business end of •> 
•:« newspaper work, should come »!• 
out for the Carnegie Tartan. *!•
* More men are needed for ad- v
* vertising work. The positions ? 
*:? that may be worked up t.o are v 
?. Business Manager and Advertis-
v ing Manager.x <•
v If interested, see J. M. Cooper,
•I* Advertising Manager, at the S. v
* A. E. House on Forbes street, v
* * ? * * * * * * * * * * * * *
The second meeting of the banauet 
committee of the Varsity Clan was 
held in the Y. M. C. A. club room on 
Wednesday evening, November 1. The 
fact that every member was present 
is a good indication of the interest 
taken by these men.
The discussion of the plans for the 
annual banquet to be held at the end 
of the football season was continued. 
Discussion of the hotel arrangements 
necessary to accommodate the ban­
quet brought out the opinion that 
there would be in tliejieighborhood of 
five hundred Tech men present. In 
other words, the affair will be the 
biggest fevent ever staged by Carnegie 
Tech men in Pittsburgh.
Duties were delegated to the vari­
ous committees which were mention­
ed in .the Tartan of November first.
Invitations were sent to the Notre 
Dame football team and its mentor, 
Coach IC. K. Rockne.
Details relating to the reception of 
guests were also discussed. The next 
meeting will be held in the Y. M. C. 
A. club room at 7:30 p. m. Wednes­
day, November S.
In order to determine as soon as 
possible approximately how many 
men expect to be present, the follow­
ing blank has been adopted. * Cut it 
out and send it in to G. D. Lain, care 
Prank IT. Haaren, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. It should be accom­
panied by check, cash or money or­
der and a self- addressed stamped en­
velope. Make checks payable to G. 
D. Lain, treasurer. Tickets are $3.50 
each and will be mailed to you with­
in the next week. The exact time and 
place will be announced later.
Mr. G. D. Lain, 
care Prank H. Haaren,
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Penna. 
check
Enclosed find cash for $...................
money order
in payment for.................reservations
at $3.50 each for me at. the annual 
banquet to be held on Saturday even­
ing, November 25, 19227 
I enclose self-addressed stamped 
envelope for'return of ticlcots to
Name .......................................................
Address .....................................................
(Please print name and address) 
Remember: It is Alumni Home­
coming Day and arrange to be there.
STUDENTS AND FACULTY TO 
HEAR ROBINS NOVEMBER 14
(Continued Prom Page One.) 
at Carnegie Lecture Hall under tho 
auspices of the Council of Jewish 
Women. Mr. Robins will speak on 
‘‘The Outlawry of War—The Next 
Step in Civilization.”
Mr. Robins has had an almost un­
matched diversified experience in his 
career. It is as a social reformer and 
politician that Mr. Robins has 
achieved his greatest fame. Raymond 
Robins was Lieut.-Col. U. S. A. Com­
missioner commanding the American 
Red Cross Commission in Russia, and 
special unofficial representative of tho 
American government for communica­
tion with officials of the Soviet gov­
ernment in Russia during 1917-1918.
The lecture is free to all who wish 
to attend.
SCIENCE HELD SHORT
ASSEMBLY WEDNESDAY
(Continued Prom. Pace One.) 
advertisement to the school.
At assemblies, hereafter, each class 
in its turn will have charge, beginning 
with the Senior class next week. Each 
class will be responsible for the pro­
gram for that week.
ORDER FOR KILTS
HAS BEEN PLACED
(Continued Prom Pa*re One.) 
Scotch atmosphere, there should be 
someone who has the ability to play 
tlie Scotch national instrument. Any 
bagpipe'^layers on the campus should 
make themselves known to the band.
When the Carnegie band- gets its 
kilts they will have the distinction of 
being the largest band in kilts in the 
country. There are fifty-six members 
in our band to have kilts, which will 
make a kiltie band even larger than 
Harry Lauder’s.
A band in kilts is now an assured 
fact, but the entire cost of such a ven­
ture has not yet been entirely col­
lected. The backing of all students 
who have not yet donated anything to 
this cause is needed.
TO THÈ SUBSTITUTE
You talk of the half back whose 60- 
yard dash 
Won the game with a minute to go; 
You rave of the full back whose off- 
¦" tackle smash 
Had the drive of a sledge-hammer 
blow.
You mention the center whose passing 
was great,
And the tackles who opened the way 
For the backs to plunge through in 
comet-like gait,
And the ends who broko up ov'ry play.
That's all very well and no doubt you 
are right,
But here’s one you should not over-:, 
look—
He's the chap who struggles with all 
of his might,
But his name’s never seen in the book.
So I'll give my praise to the Substi­
tute—
The fellow the crowd doesn’t see 
As it stands on its feet to wildly root 
For the stars of the Varsity.
—Chicago Tribune.
Thistle to be Issued 
By Easter Vacation
Board Asks For Ideas From 
Alumni Supporters
The 1923 Thistle Board has given 
the alumni its ideas and plans con« 
cerning the current year book. Now 
tho Board would like to have tlife grad­
uate ideas on how to-make the annual 
more vital to them. The undergrad­
uates’ plans may not cover all the in­
formation desired, and suggestions are 
welcomed. The clans and individual 
members are urged to write to the 
Board, and prompt action will J)o 
taken, providing the ideas are feasi­
ble.
Pictures are being taken for the 
Thistle now, and efforts are directed 
toward having the book on the campus 
and in the homes of the alumni before 
Easter. T^he total circulation must be 
known immediately. There will be no 
extra copies ordered, and only sub­
scribers will receive tho book.
The Board hopes to be able to show 
at least five hundred alumni what Car­
negie is doing. Shortly after the first 
announcement of our campaign was 
published, the response was more than 
satisfactory; but in the past two 
weeks, sales to the graduate body 
have dropped off. Keep in touch with 
Carnegie’s rapid progress. Subscribe 
for the Thistle, the complete record 
of the year’s achievements at once.
Mail that check to Vincent Roy, 
Treasurer, care Carnegie Institute of 
Technology Postofilce. If you live in 
Pittsburgh send $4.50. If you live out­
side of the city, add 25 cents for post­
age. Don’t delay, get your Thistle 
now!
SCHEDULE FOR MEETINGS
OF PSYCHOLOGY SEMINAR
The meeting scheduled for the ninth 
of November has been postponed in­
definitely because of the National Con­
vention of the Personnel Association, 
to be held in Pittsburgh the following 
day. The rest of the program will be 
carried out as scheduled. Novembor 
16th, W. E. Lange will speak on 
“Turnover Among Sales Organiza­
tions;” November- 23, Miss Grace Man- 
son will talk on the subject "Study of 
Personal History Planks of Salesmen.” 
The meetings are held on Thursdays 
at 3:30 P. M. in Room 235 Central 
Building. These Seminars are fôr tho 
purpose of acquainting those Inter­
ested with the research work in pro­
gress at Carnegie Tech in the field of 
Applied Psychology.
RUMORS ABOUT INDUSTRY
COLLEGE ARE UNFOUNDED
Very persistent rumors have boon 
going about tho campus to the effoct 
that, with tho start of tho next school 
year, no more degrees .will bo granted 
in Industries College. According to 
the rumors, tho printing and building 
construction couraos wore to bo trans- 
ferred to Art School, while tKe ma­
chine production courses -were to go 
to Science. There Is absolutely no 
truth, behind these rumors according 
to Dr. Bakor and Doan Morris. At a 
meeting of the Curriculum Committee 
last week, Dr. Baker emphatically do- 
nled that any such changes were con­
templated. Ho oxplainod that In some 
way the rumors started from a speech 
lie had made in which he stated that 
some weak spots in some of the 
courses were to be wiped out os soon 
as possible. This speech w'as mis­
quoted,' and the various rumors re- 
sulted. Dean Morris, when inter­
viewed, said thqt he had heard of tho 
rumors arid would appreciate the ef­
forts of the Tartan in setting right 
those students who had felt concerned 
over their future.
Faculty Notes
Mr._ Clarke, head of the Publicity 
Department,* returned to his duties 
after several weeks’ leave of absence. 
Mr. Clarke was injured in an automo­
bile accident some time ago, but is 
now fully recovered.
Joseph Shildkraut, who played the 
lead in the play, “Liliom” at the Al­
vin last week, visited the Drama 
School last Friday.
The National Personnel Association 
will hold a convention in Pittsburgh 
November 10. Saturday, the 11th, 
will be spent in visiting the various 
research departments at Carnegie 
Tech.
Benjamin W. Robinson and Marion 
A. Bills of the Research Department, 
recently completed an assignment 
with the Union Central Insurance 
Company. By interviews, job analy­
sis, etc., the clerical help in this com­
pany was reclassified. This expert 
advice and service is provided by the 
school so that the companies interest­
ed may reclassify their employes, giv­
ing them the jobs best suited to their 
ability, and may set. maximum and 
minimum salaries for the different 
types of work.
At the last meeting of tho Com­
mittee of Trustees of the Institute, 
hed October 19, Mr. Porter was elect­
ed chairman; Mr. Frew was elected 
secretary, in place of Mr. Scaife, who 
asked to be relieved, and Mr. Roy A. 
Hunt was appointed as a member of 
the committee In place of Mr. Franke.
She: "There is something the mat­
ter with the key hole to my room.” 
Hotel Clerk: "Very well, madam;
I-shall look into it this evening.” 
Frosh: "Wern you ever pinched for 
going too fast?”
Soph: "No, but I’ve been slapped.”
Homecoming Week at State 
Attended By Tartan Music
Three Carnegie Tec.h orchestras 
will play at Penn Stato dances after 
tho game on November 11. As this Is 
homecoming week at Penn Stato near­
ly all fraternities and other organiza­
tions will have dances and it was 
found necessary to Import orchestras 
for tho occasion. Kovak’s “Black 
Imps,” Wessel’s “Tartan 'Seven,” and 
Hughes* "Collegiate Six,” are tho 
orchestras which are to furnish tho 
music for tho State fraternities.
INFORMATION ON *
PENN STATE SPECIAL.v
$6.20 •Faro (round trip)
•I* Leave Union Station-*-
* —P. R. R., No- • *
vomber 11..........7:30 a. m. v
•I* East Liberty .... 7:42 a. m.
* Greensburg ...........S:23 a. in.
Johnstown ............ 9:20 a. m.
*!* Arrive Lenuvnt............12:35 p’. m. *
* Leave Lemont ........... .7.00 p m. *
Arriving in Pittsburgh at mid- v
•I* night.
Parlor car reservations can v 
be made in office of graduate •!*
* manager—139 Industries Build- * 
v ing for .$2.60 round trip (extra.)
•!* Redeem your preliminary tick- v 
<• et at graduate manager’s office * 
•{?at once. * *
* Tickets for game in Tech sec- 
tion for sale in graduate man- v
•!* ager’s office. *
CARNEGIE GLEE CLUB
MUSIKERS GIVE LIVE PRO­
GRAM BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
(Continued From Page One.) 
the like, kept steadily at their tasks. 
It was not until well after midnight 
that tho muso deserted them, and tho 
captive audience was allowed to es­
cape, exhausted, to their homes. Tho 
church doors wore once moro un^ 
locked and repaired, and tho authori­
ties report that thoy intend to fumi­
gate tho hall at an early date.
What’s all this? Merely some folks 
opiiilon of. a live Carnegie Tech organ­
ization. How about somo of you men 
of talent going out to malco it an ovon 
bottor one.
KAMPUS KOMMENT
(By James K. Mattor.)
Mr. Comfort
Or the football team
What wo Wjint to know Ip this? 
During tho Thiel massacre, as you 
wero about lo kick off tho socond 
time, wo hoard a swoot yonug thing 
exclaim: "Oh, isn’t Cy Comfort tho
most careful player. Ho always 
counts the men on his team, boforo 
each play. Do you soe him counting 
thorn with his flngor?”
And now we’ll got back to school.
Meet Mr. Farrell of tho Accounting 
Department. Wo quote him as au­
thority for the statomont that the 
worst (l)oolc—we mean tho first book 
on accounting was published back in 
1492.
"No wonder Columbus loft Spain.”
A young lady told us that the sub­
ject of her last Sunday's Sunday 
school lesson was "Temptation,” and 
tilt) theme was, "Fight It.” If yOu 
Want a lollypop or desire to hold your 
sweetie’s hand, you're being tempted 
and you’re not to give in.
Bill Says:
Education is the only thing in tho 
world that pooplo buy, pay for, and 
then don’t want It delivered.
Last registration dayV I saw a lino 
from Langley Lab. to tho goal posts. 
Those eager customers dug down 
deep in their Joans and paid out real 
money for education.
The next day, just as I passed a 
classroom, I thought there was an ex­
plosion. Tho students busted out tho 
door in merriment. "Hooray! He 
didn't show up. Lot’s go down here 
gang! He’ll bo coming up that other 
way!" That same day, I heard a stu­
dent pleading with his director: 
"Really, I’ll never use Machine De­
sign when I get out of college. An­
other thing—I have High School cred­
it in all shop work. Can’t 1 cut these 
things out of my schedule?” And 
then again—thoy get out of so much 
by “putting it over” on tho Prof.
Those generous people, who pay 
money and then walk away without 
getting what they pay for, malco life 
worth while. I think I'll be a college 
Prof. If I don’t "show up,” the people 
who hire me will be glad. The less I 
work, the more they’ll applaud. And 
tho lougor my summer vacation, tho 
better they'll like it. Yes—I think I 
will be a college Prof!
Send in For Your Tickets to 
the Notre Dame Game Now
Come home, Alumni. Come homo on 
November 25.
Havo you sent in your order for 
your tickets for tho Notre Dame gamo 
on November 25? If not, you had hot­
ter do so at onco. Tho tickets have 
beon placed on sale to tho public and 
aro going so fast that tho Athletic 
office would have to bo opon night and 
day to satisfy the domand.
This gamo is creating quite a stir in 
Pittsburgh; almost as much as would 
ono with our neighborly rival across 
tho hollow. And, Is it any wonder, 
slnco Notre Dame has not played in 
Pittsburgh In ten years!
Reservations must bo accompanied 
by chock, express or Postofllco monoy 
order and should bo for tho oxact 
amount to pay for tho tlckots ordered, 
minus credit duo for coupons returned 
with order. Orders must bo accom­
panied by a solf-addrossod stamped 
onvolopo. Mako all checks and monoy 
ordors payablo to Prank I-I. Haaron, 
Treasurer.
Box soats, $2.50; roBorvnd seats, 
$2.00; gonoral admission, $1.50; stu- 
dont and alumni af.hlotlo books good 
for crodlt as notod on ticket for ovon I. 
No. 7.
Tho Athlotlc ofllco will bo opon on 
Thursday and l^rlday ovonlngs for tho 
salo of tlckots.
It is tho last gamo of tho sonson 
and "Wally” Stoflon will ho at tho 
banquet that ovonlng to bow his faro* 
woll to us until noxt fall. Show him 
that’you appreciate his mighty offorts 
and aro proud of tho results ho pro- 
ducod this season.
Only :17 moro days. Mako your 
plans now!
INDUSTRIES PLEBES,
WATCH YOUR CONDUCTI
It has boon brought to tho attontlon 
of tho Sophomore class that Plohos are 
not showing tho proper rospoct to 
upper classmon in crowding through 
doors, pushing1 In halls, otc. Tho 
Plobo Blbje contains regulations con­
cerning those conditions, and from 
this date all upperclassmon and Soph­
omores aro Instructed to roport viola­
tions. Plebos are oxpoctod to hold 
open doors for all upper classmen and 
give them preforence in tho halls, on 
walks, and on stairwaya.
Plebes should not pass upper class-
BHARAT ASS’N HEARS MR.
TAYLOR AT MEETING NOV. 3
Tho Bharat Association—the or­
ganization of the Hindu Students of 
Pittsburgh—gave a very successful 
party to their 1’rlends last Friday 
evening in tho Bureau of Minos 
Building.
Mr. Taylor of tho Carnegie Tech 
faculty gave a very interesting talk 
on li.dia, p'rosontlng to tho audl- 
elco a valuable collection of statistics 
and data on India’s population, civil­
ization, etc. Dr. Clelan of tho Pitt 
faculty spoke on “Buhaism”—a most 
reformed religion of rather recent 
origin in India. "Tiny”' Nesbit en­
tertained tho audience with a few 
words on "Everything but Nothing.'' 
Tho program also included a motion 
picture show on "Water Power,” 
Hindu music, a few American piano 
selections and light refreshments.
About 75 guests were present at 
the gathering a few of whom be­
came members of the association at 
the conclusion of the program.
men on tho campus without saying 
"hello” or giving somo similar greet­
ing. This will not only tend to show 
the proper deference but will also 
bring about a better spirit on the 
campus.
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
Real Home Cooking 
116 OAKLAND AVE.
= Compliments =
I Skibo Inn 1
After Every
The Flavor 
Lasts
Can you imagine it? Just for in­
stance—suppose someone would go1 
around to see Cap Dosey on Friday 
and Bay: "Cap, I got a vacant seat
in the Rolls Royce and a spare ticket 
for the Penn State game—don’t you 
reckon you better come along?” And 
can you feature Cap saying: “Get
thee behind me, devil; I’ve already 
been to a movie this week, and I’ll 
Bin no more.”
Business of interviewing Mr. Sulli­
van—not the man who puts the anti­
friction non-skid treads on twin-slxea, 
but the little chap who toots a cor­
net—the grand bleater, or band 
leader they call him. We’re not sure 
which.
This is a spirit interview—all rights 
secured by Conan Doyle.
Sez we—"Mr. Sullivan, may we 
congratulate you on the remarkable 
improvement in the band's showing 
this year.”
"Them's my boys,” sez Sully, 
"they're nosso bad; no, sir, tjioy're 
nosHo bad.”'
"And that march you play,” we 
hinted delicately, "it's so sweet, and 
soothing, and restful—”
Sully's flguro shook with a ho
man’s grief—"That march, sub, was 
played at Abraham Lincoln’s wed­
ding," Ills grief mastered him UI wo 
took time out. "Yes,' sub,” he con­
tinued, "Hannibal crossed tho Alps 
to that tune, and before that it was 
used an a funeral dirge when thoy 
buried MoBea.”
And when be made that statement 
we heard T. S.#Repplier murmur
If every copy of that march would 
be destroyed by fire what would they 
do?
DANCING CLASSES
Classes and Private Lessons Daily at
Jacques Dancing Academy
CRAIG- AND FORBES STREETS
Special Armistice Party, Saturday Evening, 
NOVEMBER 11
OVERCOATS
TAILORED TO YOUR MEASURE
Individuality 
Durabilty 
Perfect Fit
WE ARB 
Exclusive Oakland Dealers
FOR
$35 to $50
DAVIES & HUGHES
OAKLAND'S MEN’S STORE
H 3615 FORBES STREET NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
S H
