¦ tartan
:~ ____________________ mie i/^i..« ic M..____i_______¦-?
this week
The Story of 0 Page 5
Rape, Part Two Page 10
Looking Up Page 3
Swimmers Win Page 14
February 3, I976 Volume 76 Number I7
Housing Office Claims. Adequate Room Capacity
annartment buumnp w»n a riby Debbie Rosenkrantz
According to Steve Zalewski, Business 
Manager for Campus Services, “It is the 
honest feeling of the Administration that 
last year’s high occupancy was a fluke.” 
For this reason, there will be an early 
deadline for room deposits. The adminis­
tration wants a very close approximation 
of the number of spaces needed for next 
year. The “contingency” plan, (mention­
ed in the University housing policy,) that 
is chosen will depend on how many peo­
ple there are who want rooms above the 
“Reevaluated” occupancy level of the 
dormitories.
The major plans under consideration 
for next year are: l)remodeling rooms 
that have not been used as residences in 
the past. 2) changing the lounges in More- 
wood Gardens into rooms and furnishing 
the recreation room there 3) acquiring an
appartment buuding wiui a live year 
lease.> VThe appartment plan would theoreti­
cally be used if there were an additional 
two hundred people who desired housing 
who could not be accomodated other­
wise. However, there are some legal ques­
tions that have not yet been answered, 
(such as zoning laws, leases with current 
residents, etc.), so this plan cannot be 
counted on. Remodeling Morewood 
would provide about seventy extra 
spaces. Remodeling other rooms, (which 
would include such things as knocking 
out walls, putting in windows, painting, 
etc.) could add as many as twenty spaces. 
This type of remodeling could be done 
only at great expense to the University.
The réévaluation figures for room 
occupancy levels have yet to be tabulat­
ed.
The six weeks between deposit pay-
Steve Zalewski,"It is the honest feeling of 
the administration that last years high occupan­
cy was a fluke."
ment and room draw will allow for time 
to decide on a “contingency” plan if one 
is needed.
___ ?Carnegje Grant Used For Innovation
by Claire Lee
During the latter part of 1973, Carnegie- 
Mellon University was awarded “a three- 
year grant of $300,000 by the Carnegie 
Corporation of New York to develop new 
and more productive teaching ideas. The 
funds would also be. used to determine 
effects of the innovative programs, and to 
analyze their costs and benefits. CMU 
would “contribute $50,000 in each of the 
last two years, as well as $100,000 or more 
to carry on after the grant ends in 1975-76.
“The Carnegie-Mellon attack on the 
problem would be led by an internal organ­
ization that would function as a founda­
tion administered by President Cyert; Allen 
Newell, University Professor; and Herbert 
A. Simon, Richard King Mellon Professor 
of Psychology and Computer Science. It 
would consider and accept or reject propo­
sals from students, faculty, or teams of 
both; determine fund amounts for allo­
cation; and stimulate proposals through
written material, workshops, seminars, and 
courses.
As of August 1975, twenty-five pro­
grams have been funded by the foundation, 
with a total cost of $330,286. These
are discussed in the first three “Interim 
Reports to the Carnegie Corporation of 
New York.”
The first was made on May 24, 1974 
and included 13* approved proposals.
1. The Evaluation Space Concept, pre­
sented by Dr. David Wojick, Assis­
tant Professor of History, received
$8,119. “This technique allows the
student to examine public policy 
debates and scientific controversies 
in an orderly fashion.” The objective 
of “the evaluation space method is 
to lay out the various proposals, ob­
jectives, and replies in a policy con­
troversy in such a way that the hier­
archical structure of the controversy 
is revealed.”
2. Individualized Instruction in Com-
3.
munication Skills, presented by Dean 
Arnold Weber of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, 
was granted $14,895 through May
1975. “The objective is to train 
GSIA students in the technique of 
writing technical reports and to pro­
vide the student interns of the Eng­
lish department with an opportunity 
to improve their editorial skills and 
critical analysis.” This program 
would be under the direction of Gail 
McGuire.
Revisions for Individualized Instruc­
tion in Communication Skills ($600) 
was suggested by Dean Weber and 
states that “all first year students in 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration and in the School of 
Urban and Public Affairs will take a 
written proficiency examination 
fashioned after a study conducted by 
the College Entrance Examination 
Board.”
GSO Planned
Plans for the formation of a Graduate 
Student Organization are being made by 
members of the Mudge Graduate House 
Council. The need for such an organization 
was realized last semester when the Cam­
pus Services Housing Sub-committee was 
working on the “University Housing: 
Policy and Procedures” document. One 
plan to increase undergraduate occu­
pancy was to turn Mudge into an under­
graduate dormitory. Although there were 
two graduate students on this committee 
who were able to present the opinions of 
Mudge residents (thereby preventing 
Mudge from becoming an undergraduate 
dorm), there generally is not graduate 
representation on University committees.
Mark Fox, President of Mudge Graduate 
Council, feels that the Graduate Student 
Organization could serve both social and 
political needs. Presently the only place 
graduates meet each other is in their de­
partment or at Mudge. While there are 
many things that effect all graduate stu­
dents, such as housing policy, fellowships, 
and loans, there is nobody to speak for 
them as a consolidated group.
A proposal has been written up by some 
Mudge residents and has been sent to the 
Administration. According to Mark Fox, 
the proposal has been favorably received 
and graduates have already received ap­
pointments to some University Commit­
tees.
The actual formation of the organiza­
tion will occur if there is a good response 
at a preliminary meeting to be held in the 
near future.
5. Self-Paced Learning, presented by 
Dean Herber Toor (CIT, Engineer­
ing), was awarded $9,210 and this 
new approach “to presenting 
classroom material stresses a ‘higher 
quality education at lower cost.’ ”
6. Continuation of Self-Paced Learning 
($14,775).
This is the first in a two-part series on 
the Carnegie Grant.
Graduation Date Changed
The Alumni Association 
Saturday. Approximatly 375 
steak; sitting together in one
Photo by Elliot PopoWiU
honored the class of '76 with the Senior Banquet held last 
seniors munched together on the barbequed chicken and swiss 
room for the fivt«time since freshman lecture classes.
by Paul Smith
The 54th annual commencement of 
Carnegie-Mellon University students will be 
May 8, instead of on May 10 as originally 
scheduled. According to Edward Schatz, 
the change in dates was made for several 
reasons. May 9th is Mothers Day and it was 
felt that it would conflict with commence­
ment; travel arrangement would be easier 
since people would be traveling on Friday; 
people would lose less work if it’s held on 
Saturday.
The commencement will differ from 
past commencements in that there will be 
no formal address offered. However, 
some advice may be offered this year by 
the four persons receiving honorary de­
grees, who for the first time will be allowed 
to speak briefly.
The honorary degrees will go to Fred 
Rogers, William P. Lear, John H. Franklin, 
and George W. Ball. Fred Rogers, host and 
creator of Mr. Rogers neighborhood, a 
children’s program on local public T.V., 
will be granted a Doctor of Fine Arts for
his work as an educator of young children. 
William Lear, developer of the Lear Jet 
and the first car radio, will receive a Doctor 
of Engineering, not only for his past ac­
complishments, but for his research on low 
polluting power systems. John H. Franklin, 
according to Edward Delaney, “one of 
America’s foremost Black Historians,” will 
receive a Doctor of Human Letters for his 
work in recovering that Black American 
History, which has been lost, or stolen. 
George Ball, former Under Secretary of 
State and Ambassador to the U.N. under 
Nixon, wll receive a Doctor of Law for 
“his many past legal services to the Pub­
lic.” The commencement, which in the 
words of Mr. Delaney, “will be fast mov­
ing... colorful . .. dignified and impres­
sive,” will be held on the cut in front of 
the building of Fine Arts. In case of rain, 
the cermony will be moved to the Syria 
Mosque, because the protective tarp which 
was proposed after it rained during last 
year’s ceremony will nut be ready this 
spring.

---------------------------------------------------

¦tar nTheS hoyhof0Prg5Rt5p ,w 1Lkieditor’s note
Ejection from the Womb
It is one thing to exist within the protective enclave of 
higher education and another to face ejection from its womb. 
Such is the plight of the senior CMU student who after only 
casually thinking about his/her future, is- faced with living 
with it.
Despite the fact that this culture shock hits each student 
with a different amount of intensity (with the more employ­
able engineer usually having an easier time of it than the 
seemingly hopelessly unemployed arts and humanities 
scholar) it does affect all of them.
One solution was suggested by a member of the CMU 
Board of Trustees who stated that the university had the 
moral obligation to warn the humanities major that he/she 
would probably not be employable with just an under­
graduate degree. Instead of solving the problem, this sug­
gestion only deals with its surface characteristics. Inspite of 
CMU’s recently rediscovered problem solving orientation, 
students continue to make career choices without resorting, 
for the most part, to factual analysis.
The solution is as obvious as it is simple. All entering 
students should participgte in a comprehensive career pro­
gram. Such a program should not just discuss particular 
career choices with particular students but shouid concen­
trate on offering every student a realistic view of employ­
ment prospects for all professions. This information will help 
freshmen make more intelligent academic major choices; a 
decision currently based more on fantasy than reality.
A career guidance program does not imply a decision 
making factory. Students should not be told to be TV 
Repairmen just because there is a demand for repairmen, but 
they should be made aware of this demand. English majors 
can learn about the alternatives awaiting them and plan their 
academic career accordingly. The objective is for the stu­
dent to avoid (what is presently the case) falling into this 
knowledge when it it too late for him/her to do anything 
about it.
It is encouraging that the University is finally recognizing 
this problem with the establishment of the President's 
Council on Undergraduate Development. What must occur 
simultaneously, though, is the realization by the under­
graduates that they lack reliable employment information. 
University students are too sophisticated to be forced to 
do what is good for them, they must perceive it for them­
selves.
Gary Singer, Editor
Talk vs. Change
Carnegie-Mellon is a dynamic institution where academic 
programs and procedures are constantly being scrutinized 
and changed. Physics and calculus developed into 
physics-calculus and later evolved back into physics and 
calculus. Lectures become self-paced; self-paced become 
lectures. Nothing is sacred (including Fugassi’s Introductory 
Chemistry Course) from the powerful sweep of reform.
Faculty and Administration alike peer out from their 
respective perspectives and hollar out "CHANGE!” After 
careful consideration change becomes committee and after a 
memo or two committee becomes meetings, minutes and 
more meetings. As these meetings go on, though, students are 
transferring from CIT & MIS because they could not learn 
physics and calculus from a course that juxtaposes one 
on top of the other (at the expense of each). While the 
reports are made, students are failing because they can 7 learn 
from a notebook (they need an instructor). As administrators 
are experimenting, students are graduating, or whats worse, 
failing to graduate.
The moral is not that change is bad but rather that as 
committees talk, people's lives are being affected. The 
Faculty and Administrators should never lose sight of the 
fact that no matter how long they might be at this institu­
tion, the customer only has a four year visit before liv­
ing with the consequences of his education. CMU should not 
make the same mistake made by a group of psychologists 
who let a control group die from untreated syphilis in order 
to assess the affect of a newly developed cure on the exper­
imental group. Progress can and should coexist with 
humanity. •
Gary Singer, Editor
letters
Editor:
Regarding last week’s article 
in the TARTAN, “WRCT Goes 
Top 40”, I would like to state 
that WRCT has not and has no 
plans to permanently switch 
from it’s progressive rock for­
mat. However, during the week 
of Spring Carnival our program­
ming will change emphasis and 
lean heavily towards music that 
is a mixture of Top 40, Disco 
and Gold. This in no way im­
plies that we are going “Top 40” 
anymore than the TARTAN run­
ning an extra sports story means 
that they are going “all sports.” 
What it does mean is that some 
of the music that will be played 
by WRCT during Spring Carnival 
will appear on Billboard’s top 
100 songs in the country. Be­
cause WRCT serves as the public 
address system for the mid-way, 
our jocks are required to make 
many more announcements than 
normal, so they will, no doubt, 
be talking after each song. In 
order to insure a smooth transi­
tion between our current format 
and what we will be doing dur­
ing Carnival, these changes will 
be introduced gradually, and will 
be quickly phased out once 
Carnival is over.
That such an inaccurate art­
icle appeared in the TARTAN is 
surprising since we supplied both 
the reporter, Mr. Smith, and 
your news editor with a two 
page outline of our format. In 
addition the changes were ex­
plained in detail to the reporter 
by our Program Director, Dave 
Simpson. It is unfortunate that 
such thoughtless and inaccurate 
reporting and editing should 
cause WRCT a loss of listnership 
and potential staff members. In 
one day I had three people come 
up to me and say that they 
wanted to work for us, but 
wouldn’t consider it since we 
changed to Top 40. Unfortun­
ately, there are many more who 
will never learn the truth.
In addition, your information 
regarding the academic credit to 
be given for work at WRCT was 
so garbled, it didn’t contain 
one true statement. First of all, 
WRCT is not the first organiza­
tion to receive credit - The TAR­
TAN Business Manager was of­
fered credit for working with 
your organization. Secondly, 
WRCT engineers can not receive 
academic credit for any work 
they do. They must present a 
project proposal to Dr. Quick 
regarding specific work they are 
undertaking at WRCT, and they 
must be able to show that the 
project will be a real educational 
experience. Project credit is not 
limited to EE credit, (Our busi­
ness managers receive AMS cred­
it) and the number of units is 
not limited from 1 to 6. No en­
gineer is earning less than 6 units 
and our business managers re­
ceive 9.
Finally, I would like to sug­
gest that if anyone has any 
questions about our format, 
they should give us a listen. And 
if they are interested in any 
phase of our operations, they 
are welcomed to drop by any 
time. We are located in Rm. 48 
of Skibo. We would like to hear 
from you.
Regina M. Hopkins 
General Manager 
WRCT
Volume 76tartan
February 3, 1976Number 17
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Managing Editor.Charles Mitch 
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News Editor: Debbie Rosenkrantz
Entertainment Editor:Mark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor: Rick Costa 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Tim Fabian, Mary K. Groupe, James Johnston, Kathi Leichter, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian 
Carl West and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 
621-2600 extention656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52, [412] 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESEFJVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment___________
\ lEU FROR THE TOP
THE TARTAN—Prg5Rt5p ,w 1LkiT¦tar ,
I wanted to share some infor­
mation with you which I 
thought would be of interest ... 
Twenty years ago, the amount 
of financial aid from all sources, 
public and private, amounted to 
less than $100 million. This year 
it has grown to over $6.4 billion.
At CMU, our demand for fi­
nancial assistance has increased 
dramatically. At the present 
time, we are awarding over 
$1,450,000 in CMU grants to 
our undergraduates. Many of 
these same students also receive 
state grants, as well as federal 
and corporate grants. State 
grants alone to our students ex­
ceed a million dollars annually 
and coupled with this, we 
have corporate gifts and grants 
to students which exceed 
$510,000. Contrary to general 
belief, federal grant assistance 
to students is a relatively minor, 
although important, source. 
Federal Supplemental Educa­
tional Opportunity Grants to 
needy students will amount to 
$219,667 this year, and another 
$350,000 in Basic Educationalletters
Editors Note: As already ex­
plained to Ms. Hopkins and the 
WRCT staff, the TARTAN 
consulted more than two sources 
that confirmed everything men­
tioned in the article in question. 
We feel that the TARTAN art­
icle was a fair representation of 
fact, not an example of 
“thoughtless and inaccurate 
reporting and editing” as Ms. 
Hopkins charges. It is difficult 
for us to believe such an article 
resulted in WRCT losing listeners 
and staff We regret WRCT’s 
inability to communicate.
Editor:
I am writing in response to 
the letters by Jim Russell (Jan­
uary 20) and Janet Lynn Wolk- 
enstein (January 27). I hope 
that this letter may clarify the 
purpose and aims of Scotch ‘N’ 
Soda and invite participation in 
the improvement of the club.
Scotch ‘N’ Soda is an organ­
ization for CMU playwrites and 
musicians to produce their 
works. It also provides an oppor­
tunity for students with an inter­
est in theater to engage in our 
productions as a recreational 
activity. Although Scotch ‘N’ 
Soda has traditionally presented 
a large-cast musical in conjunc­
tion with Spring Carnival, we are 
by no means restricted to one 
production and have in the past 
produced other works, such as 
coffehouses, (November ’72), a 
fall show, “Woodwind”, (Dec­
ember ’73) and a radio play 
(October ’74).
I would like to emphasize 
the immense amount of time put 
into the planning and produc­
tion of the spring show by stu­
dents who are at the same time 
carrying a considerable academic 
load. We have found that it is
Opportunity Grants has been 
awarded to CMU students. What 
does this conglomeration of data 
reflect? . . . First, that we are 
not an elite institution in terms 
of student body. We have been 
careful in the awarding of our 
funds, mindful that we want 
a heterogeneous mix of students. 
We have just that. We have 60% 
of undergraduates receiving 
some type of assistance and 53% 
of our aid recipients have par­
ents with parental incomes be­
tween $14,000 and $29,999. 
This may seem unusual to some 
readers, so perhaps it is best to 
expand on this area. These 
figures tell only part of the 
story. For growth in financial 
aid (which exceeds $5,500,000 
from all sources this year) has 
been accompanied by an extra­
ordinary diversification, both in 
the variety of aid available - 
grants/loans/employment - and 
in the makeup of the student 
clientele. We have students from 
many ethnic and racial minori­
ties; from lower, middle, and 
upper-middle income families; as
extremely difficult to attempt 
to produce two full-scale shows 
a year, although each year we 
try to produce a smaller work to 
allow greater student participa­
tion.
The formation of a “real” 
drama club at CMU seems to me 
a misdirection of energy. Scotch 
‘N’ Soda is not limited to por- 
ducing one musical a year. There 
is no stipulation that our spring 
show be a musical. However, 
during the past three years, all 
of the approximately fifteen 
shows submitted to the consid-
“A working Student Senate 
is not just an asset to the student 
body, it is a necessity,” Don 
Simon stated recently, on his 
ascension to the chairmanship of 
Senate. But a quick check on 
campus revealed that the most 
asked about question concerning 
Senate was, “Who needs it, 
what does it do?” This article 
will attempt to answer the first 
question, by answering the sec­
ond.
The primary function of Sen­
ate is as a conduit of informa­
tion and opinions between the 
student body and the admin­
istration. Senate, in theory, 
represents the student body. 
There is one senator for each 
100 students, who understands 
their opinions. Often, when the 
administration desires some stu­
dent input into a decision, e.g. 
charge for check cashing, they 
come to Senate (we said they 
shouldn’t charge unless they 
created a line solely for that 
purpose). Often, when Senate 
believes that the administration 
should know about an issue, it
well as mature age groups which 
have swollen CMU to its present 
student population. These recent 
arrivals have, for the most part, 
been far dependent on financial 
aid and have brought a vastly 
wider range of goals, interests, 
and expectations than was con­
ventional in the past.
Today, however, the student 
aid system is fast becoming 
victim of its very success. As 
the volume and variety of needs 
increase, the “system” has pro­
liferated into a tangle of pro­
grams, policies, and procedures 
that have become all but inpene- 
trable even to the professional 
financial aid administrators, let 
alone to the students, the 
system’s intended beneficiaries. 
The Financial Aid Office and the 
University are frustrated by the 
various state and federal require­
ments, and yet the consistency 
and demand for change is ex­
ceeded by the inconsistency of 
the remedies presently being sug­
gested and discussed by Con­
gress. Bear with us . . . We’re 
trying to streamiine operations
eration of the board during our 
spring auditions have been musi­
cals. If a group of students at 
CMU feel that they are interest­
ed in doing “real” theater, I sug­
gest that they submit a produc­
tion to us in April. Our organiza­
tion is extremely open to “re­
vision” and I hope students with 
a sincere interest in managing 
the club sustain their interest 
until April, when the elections 
to the board are held.
In the meantime, Scotch ‘N’ 
Soda can provide an opportunity 
for any interested student to
sends recommendations. For ex­
ample, we did not think that 
married students in Doherty 
House were getting a fair deal, 
so we protested to the Office of 
Resident Life.
The methods of passing in­
formation to the students are 
varied. This year, Senate is com­
piling and distributing member­
ship listings of the SACs, so the 
students will know who they 
are. Senate, often, disseminates 
information through the TAR­
TAN, this series of articles being 
an example. Our minutes are 
available at the Skibo desk. Basi­
cally, we gather information 
from the students by talking 
with them, or rarely, when they 
come to Senate with their com­
plaints.
The regulation of the student 
body should be Senate’s second 
most important function. At 
present, this is probably the 
least used, since several other 
bodies are charged with the same 
function. The university has its 
own regulations, SDC looks after 
the dorm residents, etc. Senate
when possible . . . We’ve elimin­
ated the institutional financial 
aid application; but still all stu­
dents applying for aid must 
complete (1.) A Parents’ Con- 
fidental Statement (PCS) for 
dependent students or a Stu­
dent’s Financial Statement 
(SFS) for independent students, 
(2.) A federal Basic Education­
al Opportunity Grant (BEOG) 
for all students. For 1976-77, 
all undergraduate students will 
be eligible. Heretofore, any stu­
dent that attended a college or 
university prior to April 1, 1973, 
was ineligible. I cannot over­
emphasize the need for students 
to apply for this type of assis­
tance. The formula for eligibility 
is changed by Congress annually 
and is directly dependent on the 
funds available. In addition, all 
Pennsylvania residents request­
ing financial aid must submit 
for state grant assistance by May
1. With slightly over half of our 
students on aid being perma­
nently domiciled in the Com­
monwealth, these students are 
deluged with three separate ap­
participate in our spring produc­
tion, “Glitz”, in some capacity. 
Ruth Weis, our business manag­
er, is currently engaged in re­
writing the guidelines for the 
management of the club and 
would welcome any suggestions 
and discussion. For further in­
formation please feel free to call 
me (421-5672) or Ruth Weis 
(681-1906).
Paul Szauter 
President, Scotch kN’ Soda
Letters are due on the Wednes­
day prior to publication.
has regulations goingy back to 
1934, but for the most part 
these are useless, since no one 
knows about them. This year, 
rules committee will be compil­
ing a list of Senate’s rules, by 
thumbing through the minutes 
and writing everything down. I 
the students, then the students 
must choose the Senate. Also, 
Senate must be made aware of 
your problems. If you have a 
complaint, or feel that some­
thing should be done, that isn’t 
being done, then come to a 
senate meeting and tell us. Meet­
ings are on Mondays, at 5:30 in 
the Wherrett Room,and are open 
to all students. If you are really 
interested in Senate, there are 
seats vacant in CIT, CFA, and 
H&.SS. To qualify, a full-time 
student must bring a petition 
signed by 25 students in his con­
stituency for nomination. Senate 
decides which nominee will fill 
the seat. Student Senate cannot 
be effective without the stu­
dents.
Don Simon 
Chairperson of Student Senate
plications essentially asking for 
the same information. To com­
plicate matters, we have three 
separate deadlines:
1. Parents’ Confidential State­
ment or Student’s Financial 
Statement
February 1, 1976
2. State Grant Application - 
Pennsylvania Higher Education 
Assistance Agency (PHEAA)
May 1,1976
3. Basic Educational Opportun­
ity Grant (BEOG)
March 15, 1977 
In giving you a preview of 
financial aid policies, let me 
commence by stating that there 
will be no major policy changes. 
The most significant change in­
volves your expected contribu­
tion from an anticipated summer 
employment. The U.S. Office of 
Education has advised colleges 
and universities that it can no 
longer summarily expect less 
summer net savings from wo­
men. In addition, the schedule 
of expected savings has been 
amended as follows and is the 
recommended federal guideline 
utilized at all colleges and uni­
versities receiving federal assis­
tance.
1975-76
MaleFemale
First Year400300
Second Year500400
Third Year600500
Fourth Year600500
TOTAL21001700
1976-77 
Male & Female
First Year 500
Second Year 600
Third Year 700
Fourth Year 700
TOTAL 2500
Of lesser significance is the 
decision to base financial aid for 
resident boarding students on a 
budget of $5475. This standard 
budget would be reduced to 
$5125 if students did not board 
on campus (at least 14 meals per 
week) (fraternity residents ex­
cluded) during 1976-77. The 
fact that a resident student may 
live off-campus in other than 
university housing will have no 
effect on the financial aid award 
for the forthcoming academic 
year.
One final note of caution - 
it is your responsibility to apply 
for assistance by the required 
deadline dates. Students who do 
not follow the established pro­
cedures for applying for aid 
could jeopardize continued assis­
tance from the University. With 
over 2000 undergraduates on fi­
nancial assistance, the demand 
for assistance continues to escal 
ate. Consequently, we need to 
follow strict procedures. The 
state and federal governments 
are no longer accepting late ap­
plications. Apply early and don’t 
jeopardize a most precious 
commodity - a CMU education.
Walter C. Cathie 
Director 
Financial Aid
<1 HOOKING UP P

---------------------------------------------------

¦tar UTheS hoyhof0Prg5Rt5p ,w 1Lki
announcements
The TARTAN will print announcements 
which it receives before the announced 
deadline (Wednesday, 12 noon) and which 
are presented in a dear (typed, double 
spaced preferred) manner. The criteria for 
selecting announcements for publication is 
as follows: 1) The event or announcement 
must be free and open to the whole (or 
majority) of the campus community; 
2) The event or announcement must be of 
general interest and not for the benefit of 
a very limited sample of people. 
Because of space limitations, the 
TARTAN cannot guarantee placement of 
any announcement but will attempt in 
good faith to include all announcements 
which meet the above criteria.
Applications for the 76-77 Resident Assis­
tants are available in the Residence Life Of­
fice. All applications must be picked up 
and returned by February 5th.
Do you want to be able to say no without
turning people off? If you do, we'll be dis­
cussing this and issues like this in an AS­
SERTIVENESS TRAINING GROUP for 
WOMEN sponsored by the counseling cen­
ter. Please call Dr. Pam Freeman X280 or 
stop in at BH 135 for information.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00.
CMU Computer Club will hold a meeting
3m srW4w Prg4 U tF kbuu I9 7m nn1u 6e4 
hVr lNHRg ¦53OrcF yrI35F 3m N39IRFr5 
C5tIV7c.b ¦r5.IrcF7Ar h5tm.d359tF73m q 
e7WWrm0>7mr yr93AtHl _7HH gr I5r.rmFrW4 
SAr5p3mr 7. _rHc39r? IHrt.r drrH d5rr F3 
c39r F3 FVr cHRg 5339 tF inuk EcV tmW 
9rrF R.4
String Symposium, Carnegie-Mellon Uni­
Ar5.7Fp •R.7c 6rIF4 o Wtp 3d cVt9gr5 9R.M
7c tmW c3tcV7ma 3m •t5cV nu 7m FVr N3HHrar 
3d P7mr o5F.4 P35 935r 7md359tF73m c3mM
cr5m7ma drr. tmW tIIH7ctF73m. ctHH Cr35ar 
C53..9tm 35 ¦tRH P3Bw rB4 :kuz 35 U,,4
The 6th District Police/Community Coun­
c7H _7HH V3HW 7F. mrBF 93mFVHp 9rrF7ma 3m 
hRr.Wtpw Prg5Rt5p 1uw kb,u I494 tF FVr 
e39r d35 N57IIHrW NV7HW5rm 7m EKR755rH 
e7HH4 h3I7cb G..Rr. FVr c7F7Jrm. 9tp VtAr 
c3mcr5m7ma I3H7cr 5r.I3m.r4
"U.S. Senate Bill No. 1 vs Civil Liberties",
¦53dr..35 hV39t. -r55w S.KR75r _7HH 5rA7r_ 
tmW W7.cR.. FVr HrmaFV7r.F tmW 93.F cR9gM
r5.39r I7rcr 3d Hra7.HtF73m rAr5 F3 grvI530 
WRcrW gp FVr ­4E4 ErmtFr0 tmW I3FrmF7tHHp 
FVr 93.F Wtmar53R.4 hVR5.Wtp odFr5m33m 
>RmcVr3m P35R9 Er57r.b 1nb,u I9w
sVr55rFF y339w E27g34 ;57ma p3R5 HRmcV 
tmW t d57rmW4 EI3m.35rW gp Nt9IR. ¦530 
a5t99 ¦Htmm7maw 6rIt5F9rmF 3d EFRWrmF 
ocF7A7F7r.4
Please make note of the following changes
7m FVr tctWr97c ctHrmWt5w EI57ma .r9r.Fr5w 
1Lkib EI57ma Nt5m7AtH 7. cVtmarW d539 
oI57H n, tmW nU F3 oI57H L tmW 1u4 N39M
9rmcr9rmF 7. cVtmarW d539 •3mWtp •tp 
1u F3 EtFR5Wtp •tp [:w tF 1u t94 >t.F Wtp 
3d cHt..r. 7. cVtmarW d539 hVR5.Wtp oI57H 
nn F3 P57Wtp oI57H n,4 P7mtH SBt97mtF73m 
Ir573W 7. cVtmarW d539 oI57H n: F3 •tp Uw 
F3 oI57H n: F3 •tp ,w _7FV •tp U 7d mrcrM
..t5p4 P7mtH a5tWr. WRr 7. cVtmarW d539 
•tp i tF :b,u t9 F3 •tp z tF :b,u t94 
hVr 5rtW7ma Ir573Ww oI57H ni tmW nkw 7. m3F 
cVtmarW4
For the 1976-77 academic year, the Finan­
c7tH o7W xdd7cr _7HH fxh gr 9t7H7ma 5rmr_M
tH d359. F3 cR55rmF t7W 5rc7I7rmF.4 oHH EFRM
WrmF.w FV3.r _V3 t5r cR55rmFHp 5rcr7A7ma 
t7Ww t. _rHH t. tmp 3FVr5 .FRWrmF _V3 
_3RHW H72r F3 tIIHp d35 t7W d35 1Lki0kkw 
9R.F 3gFt7m FV3.r d359. W75rcFHp d539 FVr 
P7mtmc7tH o7W xdd7crw n1z st5mr5 etHH4 oHH 
9tFr57tH _7HH gr tAt7HtgHr gra7mm7ma 6rcr9M
gr5 1zw 1Lki4
Interested in helping with lighting, crew,
I53I. 35 c3.FR9r.8 ENxhNe of6 Ex6o 
7. H3327ma d35 Ir3IHr F3 VrHI _7FV FVr75 
.I57ma .V3_4 N39r F3 t 9rrF7ma 7m FVr 
sVr55rFF y339 3m ERmWtpw Prg5Rt5p : tF 
L 3]cH3c2 I494 P35 935r 7md359tF73mw ctHH 
yRFV sr7. tF i:G0GLui4
College students who wish to apply for
.FtFr c7A7H .r5A7cr I3.7F73m. 7m FVr c3HHrar 
ct5rr5 .r57r. 9tp .Rg97F tIIH7ctF73m. RmF7H 
•t5cV niw FVr EFtFr N7A7H Er5A7cr N3997.M
.73m Vt. tmm3RmcrW4 —3g 3II35FRm7F7r. t5r 
H797FrW4
oIIH7ctF73m.w rBt97mtF73m tmm3Rmcr9rmF.w 
tmW dR5FVr5 7md359tF73m 9tp gr 3gFt7mrW 
d539 FVr EFtFr N7A7H Er5A7cr N3997..73m 7m 
et557.gR5aw ¦7FF.gR5aVw tmW ¦V7HtWrHIV7tw 35 
d539 c3HHrar IHtcr9rmF 3dd7cr.4
JANUARYCLEARANCE
V2 OFF
xf o>>
Fall & Winter Fashions
• Dresses
• Suede Jackets
• Leather Coats
• Handbags
• Sportswear
• Jewelry
atwood at forbes (across from the black angusj 
10-9 mon. & fri. 681-7888
10-6 tues., wed., thurs. & sat.
HAPPY HOUR - All graduate students are
7mA7FrW F3 t VtIIp V3R5 tF FVr •RWar 
C5tWRtFr e3R.rw Guuu •35r_33W d539 
Ubuu 0 ibuu I494 35 _VrmrAr5w P57Wtpw 
i4 EI3m.35rW gp FVr oW e3c N3997FFrr 
d35 FVr d359tF73m 3d t a5tWRtFr .FRWrmF 
.3c7rFp4
CLASSICAL COFFEHOUSE - On Friday,
Prg5Rt5p iw FVr5r _7HH gr t NHt..7ctH •R.7c 
N3ddrV3R.r tF Lb,u I494 7m FVr sVr55rFF 
y339 3d E27g34 hV7. rArmF 7. 3Irm F3 FVr 
ct9IR.4 P5rr 5rd5r.V9rmF. _7HH gr .r5ArW4
Squirrel Hill National Organization for
s39rm Df4x4s4? _7HH 9rrF FVr .rc3mW 
hRr.Wtp 7m Prg5Rt5p 0 Prg4 1uw1Lki tF kb,u 
I494 tF FVr —r_7.V 0 N399Rm7Fp NrmFr5w 
zk,:4 P35gr. oArmRr 7m EKR755rH e7HH4 
—rtmmr NHt52w 9r9gr5 3d E3RFV e7HH. 
f4x4s4 tmW ftF73mtH NVt750xmr d35 FVr 
ht.2 P35cr 3m yrI53WRcF73m tmW ¦3IRM
HtF73m 7. FVr aRr.F .Irt2r54 —rtmmr _7HH a7Ar 
t e7.F35p 3d f4x4s4 _V7cV _7HH 7mcHRWr FVr 
WrArH3I9rmF 3d FVr 9RHF7IHr cVtIFr5 c3mM
crIF 7m FVr c7Fpw IHR. .FtFr tmW mtF73mtH 
f4x4s4 V7aVH7aVF.4 o g57rd KRr.F73m tmW 
tm._r5 Ir573W _7HH d3HH3_ FVr I53a5t94 
—37m FVr 9r9gr5. tmW d57rmW. 3d EK4 e7HH 
f4x4s4 tmW gr t grFFr5 7md359rWw 935r 
t_t5r 'x­4
Tuesday, Feb. 10, Christine Arnold and
—3.rIV 65rBHr5 _7HH 5rtW FVr75 I3r9. 7m 
5339 n,z ; ;t2r5 etHH tF Ub,u4 ;r FVr5r4
The spring Sleeping Bag campaigns are
scheduled for April U and z and April 11 
and 12. If you'd like to host a student, 
serve on the planning committee, or find 
out more about the campaigns, please stop 
by the Admissions Office, first floor, War­
ner Hall, and talk with Gaye or Debbie.
Classified
Mainstage current show, musical Steven
E3mWVr79]. Px>>GSEw 3Irm. hVR5.Wtpw 
Prg5Rt5p z F3w tmW 7mcHRW7maw Prg5Rt5p 1U 
Dm3 ERmWtp Ir5d359tmcr.?w F_3 EtFR5Wtp 
9tF7mrr.4 oHH h7c2rF. X,4zuw rBcrIF P57Wtp 
tmW EtFR5Wtp m7aVF. Xz4uu4 EFRWrmF G6 W7.M
c3RmF X14uu4 ;3B xdd7cr Dtc53.. d539 
er_HrFF CtHHr5p? 3Irm rAr5p Wtp n0z I9 
tmW rArm7ma. 3d FVr Ir5d359tmcr.4 NR5Ft7m 
tF :b,u I94 6335. 3Irm kbUz I94 fx m3M
F7c2rF H7mr4
TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED for
EI57ma 35 ER99r5? frrW a33W gtc2a53RmW 
7m IHtp7ma tmW FrtcV7ma4 C33W F3 rBcrHHrmF 
.tHt5p4 NtHH soEeGfChxf hSffGE ESyM
/GNSE 0 Dku, ? zU:0nuiUw zU:0i,,:4
"The Wild Bunch" will be shown Sunday,
Prg4 : tF ibuuw :bUzw 11b,u 79 6e nn1u4 
h7c2rF. t5r X4kz _7FV c3HHrar G64
Are you- A sophomore; interested in
•rW7ctH EcV33Hw 7mFr5r.FrW 7m t .cV3Ht5M
.V7I8 NtHH inU0i,Lk4
KNOW YOURSELF! Biorhythm is a statis­
F7ctHHp gt.rW FVr35p FVtF I5rW7cF. p3R5 
V7aV. tmW H3_.4 ErmW .Ft9IrWw .rHd0tWW5r..M
rW rmArH3Ir d35 t d5rr ItIr5 3m g735VpFV94 
yrKRr.F ¦tIr5 f34 n4 G;Gw ;3B UU:Lw N5td0 
F3mw ¦t4 1znuz4
Earn up to $80 per month for 4 hours of
p3R5 F79r Ir5 _rr24 63mtFr ¦Ht.9t tF 
Er5t0hrc ;73H3a7ctH. ,Uuk P35gr. oAr4 
DmrBF F3 o5gp]. 7m xt2HtmW?4 xIrm :bUz t9 
0 kbuu I9 •3m0hVR5.4 :bUz t9 0 Ubuu P57 
¦V3mr i:n0,1Lu4
GGCAMPUS HOUSING"
The University plans to accommodate all current residents who wish 
to remain on campus and who plan to take 24 units or more.
This task will be accomplished through a process of Room Reservation Room 
Retention and Room Selection.
ROOM RESERVATION can be made by placing a $25 non-refundable housing 
deposit with the Cashier’s Office no later that February 17, 1976. Any deposit after 
February 17 , from a current student will place the student on a waiting list. On 
February 18,19,30, all students who have made a ROOM RESERVATION will draw a 
lottery ticket in the SDC room of Morewood Gardens between 8:30 and 5:00 pm and 
between 6:00 and 9:30 pm according to the date assigned for each class.
ROOM RETENTION is the process of reserving your current accommodations for 
the next academic year. The remainder of the $100 non-refundable deposit ($75) must 
be paid to the Cashier’s Office by March 30 1976. This $100 will be applied toward 
the first semester’s housing bill.
RULES FOR ROOM RETENTION:
1/Undergraduates in Mudge, Doherty, Woodlawn, and Morewood Apartments 
may not retain their rooms.
2/Rooms may only be retained if all of the occupants reoccopy the same rooms, 
roommates may not be substituted.
3/If you retain your room you may not take part in the room selection process.
4Jf all roommates do not return next Fall, the room will be reassigned.
ROOM SELECTION, on April 5,6,7 students who have made a Room Reser­
vation, but have not retained a room, may select a room from the remaining accom­
modations.
COOPERATIVE UNITS, Co-op groups may retain their houses for 1976-77 by 
guaranteeing full occupancy. Co-ops will nave until room retention day to invite new 
students to repace members that are leaving. Each prospective occupant must reserve 
space participating in Room Retention/ Draw on the specified day for his/her class, 
and complete the balance of $100 non-refundable deposit before room retention day. 
If the Co-op student group cannot fill the house, Residence Life Office will assign 
additional students.
STUDENTS NOT CURRENTLY IN RESIDENCE, after paying a $25 deposit 
students will be placed on a waiting list on a first come-first served basis. If there are 
accommodations available, student will be notified before May 2, 1976.
NOTE:the entire Housing Policy and Procedure for 1976-77 can be read in the 
Residence Life Office.
Don’t forget these important dates:
FEBRUARY 17 $25 housing fee due at the Cashiers Office
FEBRUARY 18, Prospective Sophores’ Room Drawing
FEBRUARY 19, Prospective Juniors’ Room Drawing
FFEBRUARY 20, Prospective Seniors’ Room Drawing
MARCH 30, room retention, in the Morewood Lobby
MARCH 30 remaining $75 housing fee due at the Cashiers’ Office
APRIL 5 Room Selection, Prospective Sophores
APRIL 6 Room Selection, Prospective Juniors
APRIL 7 Room Selection, Prospective Seniors

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—February 3, 1976—Page 5
.THE STORY OF O* : _OF HUMAN BONDAGE
by David Matthews
Something quite curious has recently 
begun to take place. Led by the enormous 
acceptance and even critical lauding given 
last year’s Emmanuelle, soft core porno- 
W graphy raised its head out of the dark of 
the cellars and backrooms of “erotic” 
cinemas and is beginning to play to packed 
houses in first-run theatres. Even more 
surprisingly, the audiences are not made 
up, to any great extent, of the stereotypi­
cal “dirty old men,” but rather are com­
prised of the 18-35 crowd. Will wonders 
never cease? And to add a cherry to the 
^ sundae (if you’ll excuse my vulgarity), 
these “porno” flicks are actually erotic to 
a certain extent. I see that glimmer of dis­
trust in your eye already, so I am prepared 
to defend myself using The Story of O as 
prime evidence.
?
^ First: some history on the subject. 
“Histoire of O” made its first appearance 
in the mid-1950’s in the form of an ex­
plicit and highly controversial novel by 
an author, Pauline Reage, whose identity 
is still a mystery. First appearing in France, 
the novel quickly became a chic topic of 
discussion. The American book trade, in 
truly typical form, immediately got the 
^ message and “jumped on the bandwagon.” 
In only fifteen years, Grove Press published 
its first edition of the novel.
Reage’s “0” is the story of one wo­
man’s submission to the odd, if not some­
what distasteful, tests her lover plots in 
order to prove O’s love, and his ownership 
of her. Pretty medieval, you say? Perhaps, 
but O “proves” herself to her lover’s con- 
^ tent by agreeing to be slave to the desires
of a group of sadistic “gentlemen” at a 
curious resort, called Chateau Roissy. She 
is not alone, however, since the place is 
overflowing with a bevy of beauties just 
waiting to serve the male residents of the 
Chateau. O’s accomodations are lavish, and 
include the services of her own private Val­
ette (a female’s manservant), whose duty it 
is to take care of her and whip her regular­
ly. After O’s “graduation” from Roissy she 
is returned to the normalcy of daily life, 
where we learn that she is a professional 
photographer.
?
Now the plot takes a confusing turn, it 
seems that O’s male lover Rene has put her 
through all of these rituals only to present 
her as a gift to his older brother, Sir Steph­
en. Now O has a new master, and because 
of her love and devotion to Rene, becomes 
Sir Stephen’s slave. Eventually falling in 
love with him, O agrees to bear a perma­
nent mark, declaring Sir Stephen’s owner­
ship. More whips and chains, another 
plot twist (which I will neglect to mention 
so as not to “ruin” the film for you), and 
the film draws to a close.
?
I’m destroying my case you say, by this 
explanation, Au Contraire. Since when 
has a porno film been judged for its story 
line? What really counts is the overall 
effect of the film. Right?
The Story of O is extremely visual. 
Use of “soft focus” telephotography, mix­
ed with intense natural lighting lends a 
dream-like aura to the opening sequences. 
Splendid architectural and interior designs 
add to a totally exciting screen image.
Despite the recurring sado-macho scenes, 
the film flows gracefully through improb­
able scene changes, without losing any con­
tinuity of action. Cinematographically, it 
achieves success on one other level: the 
opening credits. Soft-fade superimpossi- 
tions of profiles upon moving backgrounds 
creates a tonal mystery which persists 
throughout the film. Immediately follow­
ing the purposefully underexposed credits, 
we are shocked by the suddent blazing sun­
set and overexposed images flashing across 
the screen. Extremely abrupt and uncom­
fortable, this change is appropriate to a 
film that presents brutality mixed with 
love, and cruelty mixed with passion.
Adding to the ethereal aesthetics is the 
often-present musical sountrack, rich with 
strings, that seeks to further hint at some 
underlying meaning in the film. But what 
is that meaning? Have patience, we’re 
coming to that presently.
?
O personifies undemanding love. Not 
only does she love Rene, but everything 
and everyone he “gives” to her. She asks 
nothing in return, not even his love. As 
soon becomes apparent, Rene’s love is 
simply a tool by which he can persuade 0 
into succumbing to his older brother, Sir 
Stephen. Although first appearing rather 
cold, we sense an inner warmth and love in 
Sir Stephen, not to be found in the lustful 
Rene. Sir Stephen represents, not only
lover, but also protector, and father to 
the innocent 0. There is something more 
though. We gradually discover that O’s 
loyalty and dependency are not without 
reciprocation on Sir Stephen’s part. In­
deed, he is as much hers, as she is his. Not 
totally chauvinistic, you see, they are just
mutually kinky. One surmises from all 
this, that love is demandingly selfish and 
test-worthy, a disquieting, if not somewhat 
realistic assertion of an often-denied truth. 
Love is for the lover, not the beloved, but 
there are still considerable concessions on 
at least one side.
Erotically presented with shadow-light­
ing, O (played by Corine Clery) is a brown­
eyed beauty, perfectly suited for the part. 
She lacks voluptuousness and her face 
hints at naivete and untrammeled beauty, 
but there is a definite knowledge in her 
piercing glance. Udo Kier, fresh from 
Warhol’s Frankenstein re-establishes his 
predilection toward unorthodox sexual 
appetites. He is, in both cases, downright 
weird. Just Jaekin (also director of the 
aforementioned Emmanuelle) blends these 
and other “talents” into a surprisingl) 
convincing cast, adequately dramatizing 
the admittedly flawed story-line.
Despite all the underlying themes and 
intricate photography, this is still a movie 
chock-full of sadistic violence and graphic 
sex. It is still “soft” pornography, and 
therefore not recommended to those 
easily embarrassed or dismayed at the sight 
of flailing and welt-ridden bodies. For 
quietly perverse sickies like myself, how­
ever, the film is worthwhile, from at least 
an erotic and bizarrely sensual point of 
view.
?
The Story of O is an Allied Artists 
presentation, and is currently showing at 
the Fulton Mini on Sixth Street in Pitts- 
-burgh, a Cinemette theatre. 
????????????
o4 ;4 >SNh­ySE q E¦SNGo> S/SfhE
PRESENTS.THESE ORYF*:_U
Speaking On:
• THE FAILURE OF THE PRESENT POLITICAL SYSTEM
• ILLEGALITIES IN CAMPAIGN REFORM LAWS
• A REDEDICATION TO THE GOALS OF THE CONSTITUTION
H7REFLECTIONS ON THE BICENTENNIAL
hx•xyyxs PS;y­oy' UFV T : I94
E-G;x ;o>>yxx•T PySS
GG

---------------------------------------------------

¦tar iTheS hoyhof0Prg5Rt5p ,w 1Lki
DEEP PURPLE?????????????
Two internationally known guest artists, 
conductor Zdehek Macal and pianist Chris­
toph Esenbach, will take the Heinz Hall 
stage with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orch­
estra for series concerts on Friday, Febru­
ary 13 at 8:30 pm, Saturday, February 14 
at 8 pm and Sunday, February 15 at 3 pm. 
This will be the first of two series under 
the direction of Macal who has become a 
favorite visitor of the Pittsburgh audiences. 
For the next series, February 20 and 22, 
Macal will team with pianist Radu Lupu 
for the soloist’s debut in this city.
Works scheduled for the February 13, 
14, 15 concerts include Roussel’s Ballet 
Suite No. 2, “Bacchus et Ariene, ” Opus 
43, “Pictures at an Exhibition,” written 
by Moussorgsky and orchestrated by 
Ravel, and Mr. Eschenbach playing Mo­
zart’s Piano Concerto NO 23 in A Major, 
K. 488.
Although the entire series is sold by 
season subscription, some tickets may have 
been returned to the box office for re-sale. 
Call the Heinz Hall box office for informa­
tion at 281-5000. (For further information 
contact Gene Palatsky or Kathy Butera)
The grand patriotic variety show “Stand 
Up and Cheer” with Johnny Mann and the 
Johnny Mann Singers comes to Heinz Hall 
for two shows only, Sunday and Monday, 
February 15 and 16, both shows beginning 
at 8 pm.
The group displays limitless enthusiasm 
and vitality. Only a few years ago Johnny 
Mann and his Singers put together a road 
show of America’s history through music 
which debuted at the White House. The 
show went on the play to capacity audi­
ences in the main room of Las Vegas’ Sa­
hara Hotel and culminated as an hour-long 
television special.
In a sweeping, record-breaking tour 
across the nation Johnny Mann and his 
young vivacious troupe of entertainers has 
brought the songs and dances of America 
to audiences through appearances on tele­
vision, nightclubs and theaters.
Before that, Johnny’s start in Holly­
wood was composing and arranging scores 
for seven full-length motion pictures for 
Warner Bros., 20th Century Fox and Co­
lombia Studios. He then became choral 
director oT the NBC “Comedy Hour,” 
which led to the formation of the Johnny 
Mann Singers and a record contract.
The Johnny Mann Singers are typically 
young college graduates with that fresh- 
scrubbed look, who have studied music 
seriously and performed professionally.
Tickets to “Stand Up and Cheer” are 
priced at $8, $7, and $6 and are available 
at the Heinz Hall box office and at ticket 
counters in Kaufmann’s, Horne’s, Gimbels, 
Sears and all National Record Marts. Ticket 
information is available by phoning (412) 
281-5000. For further information contact 
Gene Palatsky or William Kessler).
The «roadway touring cast of Man of 
La Mancha brings the outstanding musical 
saga to -Heinz Hall for four performances, 
February 9 to 11, starring David Atkinson 
in the title role.
You probably remember Eugene Mc­
Carthy speaking out against the war. Well, 
tomorrow the former Minnesota Senator 
will be speaking out on the illegalities in 
campaign reform laws, and the failure of 
our current political system. He will discuss 
a return to the ideals of the Constitution, 
in his “Reflections on the Bicentennial.” 
The Activities Board Lecture and Special 
Events presents Eugene McCarthy Feb. 4, 
at 8:00 pm in Skibo, Ballroom, free to all 
CMU students.
Back in the days of deafening decibels and smashing stage acts. Deep 
Purple emerged as a premier rock group.
I found their lead concert of 1976 to be a first class one. The music 
came across clear and clean with the band giving the newer members 
the utmost confidence. Surprisingly, the volume was very reasonable 
for the world's loudest rock group. Another pleasant surprise was the lead 
group . Nazareth although I am not familiar with them, I found their 
performance to be excellent. - Paul Williams
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE Presents
lheS 6S>GNohSEESfl
KILTIE COFFEE HOUSE
SPOTLIGHTS 
The Best In The 
House
<&>
Monday Thur. • Friday 
11:30 A.M. to 1:30 P.M.
The real Italian Hoagie
capocolla, genoa, prosciuto, provalon 
tomatoes, special dressing, lettuce 
italian stick loaf bread
THE BUMP 
meatballs, special sauce.
THE BAVARIAN CLUB 
braunschweiger, tomatoe, 
leaf lettuce, dark ryebread 
spanish onions
STILL FEATURING 
Soup of the day
10 Deli Sandwiches (made to order) 
Self-serv Salad bar
IF YOU CAN'T JOIN US 
WE HAVE 
COMPLETE CARRY-OUT SERVICE
FEBRUARYTHJRStWfi®« FORUMS
: 5
* , US Senate Bill No.1 vs.Civil Liberties *
12:30 Wherrett Room 
Bring Lunch And A Friend
Sponsored by CMU Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page ~—THE TARTAN-February \TRAPHONHAIR
by John Vorhaus
A good deal of outcry was raised in the 1960s over 
the ecological rape of this benign but benighted planet. 
Everything from Campbell’s cans to Planters packages 
(soup to nuts, as it were) was condemned for its pernic­
ious effect on the environment. With expanding indus­
trialists fighting entrenched naturalists, it was a case of 
egoism versus ecosystem. We residents of Pittsburgh 
know that only the furor has died down in the seven­
ties, not the pollution. Go outside ~ right now, I’ll wait - 
- and take a deep breath. Chances are you’ll regret it. It 
is, however, with some little fear that I point out a grave 
ecological danger that has so far gone unnoticed. I say 
fear because mine may be the fate of Cassandra. Will you 
think me crazy when I say that our greatest ecological 
menace is neither water nor air, but rather hair, pollu­
tion? We are, you see, in great peril of being strangled 
by our own hair.
Consider: if each person loses even ten strands of 
hair a day (an underestimation, I assure you; just look at 
your hairbrush), the figures quickly become startling, 
not to mention hair-raising. Sbme deft application of 
finger to calculator reveals that at the rate of ten strands 
of hair per person per day, the yearly worldwide hair 
loss is a staggering ten trillion, nine-hundred and fifty 
billion strands.
Yes, ten trillion, and the number is growing all the 
time. Try to conceive of ten trillion, or even ten billion. 
Most people have trouble comprehending their pay­
check. For America, however, the problem is greater 
still. An urban society, we don’t have the natural biolog­
ical surroundings that normally absorb and biodegrade 
excess hair. Get up right now and look under your bed. 
See those dust bunnies, those nefarious balls of dust? 
Pick one up and look at it. What is it largely made of? 
Need I say it? How long before the streets of the city
My hair like Jesus wore it
halleluiah I adore it
are covered by dust bunnies? We are well on the way.
But wait; while you’re up, go look in your bathtub. 
Unless you’re neater than most, you’re sure to have at 
least a few strands of hair clinging tenaciously to the 
porcelain. But that’s only the tip, so to speak, of the 
iceberg. For the great part of the hair you shampoo 
away has already disappeared down the drain\ We are 
not children who believe that hair simply ceases to exist 
when it goes down the drain. No; it has to end up some­
where. Don’t be surprised if you go to the shore some 
time and find that the beach is closed, not because of 
some shark, but because the hair-count is too high. Im­
possible? Remember, we’re talking about ten trillion 
strands yearly.
The worst, to coin a phrase, is yet to come. We 
Americans, in our usual sweet fashion, have tied the 
noose and placed it around our own necks. In countless 
homes across the country you can now find the single 
most potent weapon of destruction imaginable. Many 
houses have two, or even three. No, I’m not talking 
about television. If America drowns in a sea of hair, we’ll 
have been pushed under by the hand-held hair dryer.
You are pumping five hundred to one thousand watts 
of hot air at.your head on a regular basis - maybe even 
at this very moment. Is it any wonder that your hair has 
begun a mass exodus? Is it any wonder that hair death 
has increased incredibly since the hand dryers were intro­
duced only five years ago? We’re talking about a new 
holocaust. And it’s your hair going to the ovens.
So laugh at me if you wish; call me mad if it gives 
you comfort. But I can remember when cigarettes did 
nothing worse than stunt your growth. Still, ignore the 
danger if you dare. You may be lambs to the slaughter, 
but at least your wool will be nicely styled. But the next 
time you flash-fry your hair, think of the ten trillion 
consequences, and refrain. And the next time you sham­
poo, mix a little Elmer’s glue in with your Herbal Es­
sence. It just might help.
iwm
xíSill * 11
\% 1m :
V:-v - -::í, iTHE
:i V;¦jflhNERMN
WAY
wmmmmmm mOF
DEtfH
February 3 HOW THE DYING PERSON FACES 
DEATH
February10
February17
ALL LECTURES ON CONSECUTIVE TUESDAY EVENINGS AT 7:30 P.M. IN THE 
WHERRETT ROOM, SKIBO EXCEPT MARCH 9 TO BE HELD IN BREED HALL, 
MARGARET MORRISON BUILDING AT CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY.
THE SERIES IS FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
PROGRAM SPONSORED BY CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING, BNAI BRITH 
HILLEL-IEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER, UNIVERSITY AND CITY MINISTRY
y7cVt5W EcVRHJw Dept, of Psychology, C-MU 
;t5gt5t EV35rw Graduate School of Social Work, 
University of Pittsburgh
THE RIGHT TO CHOOSE WHEN TO 
DIE: EUTHANASIA
og5tVt9 h_r5.27w •464w Clinical Director,
Dept, of Psychiatry, St. Francis Hospital 
ftFVtm er5.Vrpw Professor of Health Law, 
University of Pittsburgh
SUICIDE
—3Vm y7c2HtRdw Director, Contact Pittsburgh
DEATH AND GRIEF: AN 
INTERRELIGIOUS VIEW
¦tmrH 3F o/rt yrH7a73R. yrI5r.rmFtF7Ar.
E54 •t5p >3R7.r ft.Vw Professor of Psychology,
Carlow College
March 9 SOME THINGS TO CONSIDER: WILLS, 
BURIALS, DONATING BODY PARTS, 
ALTERNATIVES
/t573R. ¦7FF.gR5aV 5r.3R5cr Ir3IHr 
_7HH gr W7.cR..7ma FVr.r F3I7c.4
March

---------------------------------------------------

¦ ON GOD
by John Vorhaus
* It’s a good thing that God’s not watching. Or at least 
that He allows us to bend the rules. We’d all be in a hell 
of a lot of trouble if He decided to cash in his chips.
Leviticus 19:4: “Turn ye not unto the idols, nor 
make to yourselves molten gods.” Well, I don’t know ex­
actly what He considers a molten god, but I suspect that 
your new Pioneer receiver with V-FETs, phase-lock-loop 
circuitry and SQ Matrix probably fills the bill. As for 
turning unto the idols, I need only say that Pittsburgh
* would surely go the way of Sodom and Gomorrah if He 
caught the local action when the Steelers took the Super 
Bowl. They may not be false idols, but the Steelers do 
outdraw church every Sunday.
Or Leviticus 10:9: “Drink no wine nor strong drink, 
though, nor thy sons with thee when you go into the 
tent of meeting, that ye die not; it shall be a statute for 
ever throughout your generations.” God and the WCTU. 
Now I’d never considered Iron City to be strong drink, 
b but in the eyes of the Lord . . . And I’m not sure what 
the Big Guy means by a tent of meeting, but the next 
time you meander over to a frat mixer to tilt a few of a 
Saturday night, take a look above. That lightning bolt 
just might have Greek letters on it.
The Wise and Almighty is, of course, wise and al­
mighty. He knows that boys will be boys (no sexism in­
tended; girls will undQubtedly be girls, too). So he pro­
vides various outs for us. For example, there’s Leviti-
9 cus 4:3 (and in case you hadn’t figured it out, Leviticus 
is the Rules and Regs book of the Bible). “If the an- 
nointed priest shall sin so as to bring guilt on the people, 
then let him offer for his sin, which he has sinned, a 
young bullock without blemish unto the Lord for a sin- 
offering.” Take an annointed ex-priest of our own tribe: 
Richard Nixon. Look at the trouble he had when it fell 
out that he had sinned a veritable multitude of sins (he 
violated, among others, the ninth commandment, “Thou 
£ shalt not misspeak thyself.”). He tried every thing from 
stonewalling it to going the contrition route, but in the 
end he was hounded out of office and forced to live, 
defrocked, at San Clemente in disgrace and squalor - 
well, anyway in disgrace. Now if he had only heeded the 
Head Coach and gone in the Leviticus 4:3 route, he 
would still be President today, happily contemplating 
the Nixon Library and fat speaker’s fees for Presidents 
Emeritus. All he needed to do was to present a young 
^ bullock (although unblemished bullocks are admittedly 
hard to find these days) to the American people, on net­
work television, and he’d have atoned for his sins. I, for 
one, would have readily forgiven him. But I can’t help 
wondering how the expression “Bull it though” has 
been twisted to the present meaning.
Of course there are the little infractions of which we 
are all guilty. Remember “Remember the Sabbath day 
and keep it holy”? It means no work on Sunday (or 
| Saturday, depending on where you were circumcised). 
And while it’s a nice idea, it isn’t always practical. Ask 
an architect. Then there’s “Thou shalt not steal,” which, 
in my text (a very little-known and loose translation 
from the Aramaic) goes on to say, “Thou shalt not steal 
spoons from Morewood Cafeteria, neither shalt thou 
take more than one Nutty Buddy.” Forgive me, Lord, 
for I have sinned!
And, of course, there’s the tenth commandment (not 
to be confused with the tenth ammendment): “Thou 
' shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house; Thou shalt not 
covet thy neighbor’s wife, nor his manservant, nor his 
maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass (nor his wife’s ass!), 
nor anything that is thy neighbor’s.” Now some of that 
is not too tough. Few of us have neighbors with oxen, 
nor maid-servants (or manservants; the Lord is an equal 
opportunity deplorer). But it says right there in the Big 
Book that you will not covet anything he’s got. And 
when he drives up in a sweet new Mercedes, you just try 
not to covet. Good luck -- I’ll see you in hell.
That’s it, then, a gentle admonition to Get Ye With 
It. The man in the Big Boat isn’t going to sleep on the 
poop deck all day. Eventually he’ll wake up to the fact 
that God’s children are out past curfew, and then the fur 
will fly. Who knows? We may all have to go the contri­
tion route.
THE TARTAN-February 3, 1976-Page 9
Reflections
by Jeffrey Gerstein
Fat Boy and Tall Boy, their names derived as a tribute 
to Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt, paid an 
unannounced visit on two Japanese cities in August, 
1945. The event tragically commemerated the birth of 
a new era in the history of mankind: The Atomic Age; 
for some ten seconds after Tall Boy hit town, all that re­
mained of Hiroshima were the shadowy silhouettes of 
vaporized Japanese, imprinted on the walls and trees 
that had miraculously been left i/itact. There were no 
bodies in those four devastated square miles where the 
center of the explosion occurred. Literally, only the 
ghosts survived.
For all intents and purposes, World War Two came to 
an end right then and there. For the United States, how­
ever, once was not enough. Perhaps to reaffirm, or per­
haps to revel in their newly discovered power, Fat Boy 
dropped in on Nagasaki two days later. It seems he 
wanted to see Japan too, but shortly after he arrived, 
few people were well enough to welcome him. Fifty 
thousand died there within the first ten seconds, more 
than ten years worth of American deaths in Vietnam. It 
was a disappointing trip. Fat Boy would have done bet­
ter to stay home, read The Wasteland, and save the cost 
of travel to boot.
Today, we witness the maturation of the bomb, and 
like the Hydra it has grown multi-headed. MIRV is the 
offspring of Fat Boy and Tall Boy, and stands for Mul­
tiple Independent Re-Entry Vehicle. (The Army has 
fantastic euphemisms. For instance, they call napalm, 
incendi-gel.). MIRV is a missle with ten warheads (they 
say one warhead is thirty times as powerful as Fat Boy), 
mounted on nuclear submarines called Poseidons. One 
missle can simultaneously strike ten targets, because the 
warheads are independently programmed by a computer 
that adjusts the trajectories of the MIRVs to compensate 
for changes in the Poseidon’s location. Also, each Posei­
don is equipped to carry as many as sixteen missiles, for 
a total of one hundred sixty warheads. And since there 
are at least forty Poseidons in existence, the United 
State’s nuclear capacity has become 192,000 times 
as potent as it was in 1945. (One must bear in mind that 
this is naval potential only.) To extrapolate one step 
further, the navy can conceivably destroy 768,000 
square miles of the Earth, and kill 9,600,000,000 peo-
On The 
Big One
pie, three times the world’s population, within twent 
minutes after the order is received to do so.
Recently, I explained all this to a friend, and he told 
me to take solace in the idea that sailors in the subs are 
fully aware that by launching any MIRVs they effective­
ly kill off the human race. But this fails to console me. 
I hear rumors that on the Poseidons, exercises are con­
ducted every day simulating actual wartime situations 
and emphasizing preparedness. Not being informed 
otherwise by their commanders, the crews operate on 
the assumption that what they are doing is real. In this 
way, the Navy has a fool-proof method of weeding out 
the cowards, pacifists, humanists, or other undesirables 
and thus assures the citizenry that those manning the 
submarines are quite capable of protecting their country, 
even at the expense of destroying the world in the pro­
cess.
I am frightened to think of this mentality that has 
become, perhaps always has been, so pervasive of the 
military. This is infinitely more dangerous than the 
“once is not enough” attitude. It is largely a conse­
quence of the Cold War, and since it does not functon 
within the scope of sanity, I cannot help but speculate as 
to how much longer we can toy with oblivion, before we 
blow ourselves away.
But I do not wish to endorse the philosophy of Je- 
hova’s Witnesses. True, I have little faith in Detente. The 
U.S. and U.S.S.R. could never reach the level of trust 
necessary to accomplish a goal of such magnitude, and 
ultimately, howsoever mournfully, Detente will'be re­
cognized for the myth it is. (The Russians would have 
no way of knowing whether the U.S. had, in fact, reduc­
ed or deactivated their nuclear stockpiles, other than the 
U.S. word for it, and given the importance of the situa­
tion, every reason to believe the U.S. is lying, an vice 
versa.) However, I do have faith in people, and hope 
that only a small minority of us have had our faculties 
frozen by the Cold War. Should sanity prevail, then all 
of mankind will probably flounder on the brink until the 
end of eternity. If not, well I for one am glad that I’m 
American, so that I can cherish the illusion of being safe.
twist end
cut along dotted linev'v*v
\ y/>\ e 
&
/ 'V / c.
/b°
"f &
V/twist endDONT READ TRAPEZE
SMOKE IT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-February 3, I976Editoro
The Terror and the Poison
Part Two
by Rick Costa
When discussing the education or indoctrination of 
men in contemporary society, Brownmiller forcuses on 
the myth of the heroic rapist: “No theme grips the mas­
culine imagination with greater constancy than the myth 
of the heroic rapist.” She begins her account with the 
example of Jack the Ripper, whom she contends has 
become so famous precisely because his identity is un­
known. Similarly, the Boston Strangler'attracted more 
attention before DeSalvo confessed. She believes that 
the repeated assertions that Albert DeSalvo was not the 
Boston Strangler stem from a desire to preserve the 
anonymity of the Boston Strangler. Her discussion of 
the Boston Strangler leads her to Mick Jagger’s cult as a 
pop idol and his song “Midnight Rambler.” She writes, 
‘“Midnight Rambler’ is Mick Jagger’s orgasmic, heighten­
ed recreation on stage of the rape-murder of twenty- 
three-year-old Beverly Samans, the most viciously mutil­
ated of the Strangler’s victims, taken from the words of 
Alvert DeSalvo’s confession as it appears in Gerold 
Frank’s authenticated book.” She adds that “Jim Mor­
rison and Jimi Hendrix had meteoric careers built on 
simulated on-stage abuse of women for autoerotic 
kicks.” Mick Jagger leads her to the Altamount Festival, 
where a man in the crowd was stabbed to death. “Less 
publicized,” Brownmiller states, “was an eyewitness 
account of several rapes during the free-for-all concert.” 
Of course, Altamount leads to a discussion of the Hell’s 
Angels and fheir popularizer and glorifier, Hunter 
Thompson. Throughout the entire concert, Angels had 
been beating spectators with pool cues and it was an 
Angel who stabbed Meredith Hunter. It is not known 
for certain if Hunter died from the knife wound or from 
the subsequent beating in which five or six Angels pum- 
muled his skull with their boots. Tony Scaduto, in his 
book about Mick Jagger, speculates that the Angels initi­
ally attacked Hunter because he was black and had a
white girl friend with him. In Thompson’s book about 
the Angels, he describes gang rape as a “form of punish­
ment” used by the gang on “a girl who squeals on one of 
the outlaws or who deserts him.” In defense of his out- 
law-heroes he writes, “Women are terrified of being 
raped, but somewhere in the back of every womb there 
is one rebellious nerve end that tingles with curiosity 
whenever the word is mentioned.”
Brownmiller also has a short section covering the her­
oic rapist in movies. Her chief example is A Clockwork 
Orange, in which Alex and his companions rape a wo-
The Angels at Altamouvt
man in front of her husband. A Newsweek reviewer, be­
lieving Alex to be a hero, writes, “Alex symbolizes man 
in his natural state, the way he would be if society did 
not impose its ‘civilizing’ processes upon him. What we 
respond to subconsciously is Alex’s guiltless sense of 
freedom to kill and rape, and to be our natural savage 
selves.” Two other movies, released at almost the same 
time as A Clockwork Orange, Frenzy, and Straw Dogs, 
also presented the rapist in a favorable light. In the lat­
ter, the woman was also raped in front of her husband 
and was portrayed as enjoying the assault. As a contrast, 
Brownmiller offers the movie Deliverance, in which the 
viewer does not identify with the rapist, who in this 
instance raped a man, but with his slayer. Norman Mail­
er, who has tied his view of male dominace into a cryp-
SCIENCE 
TECHNOLOGY 
HUMAN VALUES
People, Machines and Productivity
February 11 Donald Burnham, Vice-Chairperson, 
National Commission on Productivity
Economics as if People Mattered
February 25 (a discussion of Small is Beautiful by 
E. F. Schumacher) Hazel Henderson, Co-Directeur, Princeton 
Center for Alternative Futures
Machines and Values
March 10 (a discussion of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle 
Maintenance by R. N. Pirsig) Leon Harmon, Department of Bio-Medical 
Engineering, Case Western Reserve
Computing and Thinking
March 31 (a discussion of computer usage and its effect on people’s self image) 
Allen Newell, University Professor, Carnegie-Mellon University
All forums are on Wednesday evenings at 7:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning Program on Science and Humanities Program on Society and Technology 
Free; Open to the Public.••••••••••••*4^
uvwrvtyjnplMo

---------------------------------------------------

Editoro
THE TARTAN—February 3, 1976—Page 11
tomystic, pseudoscientific doctrine of the aggressive 
sperm swimming heroically toward the stolid, passive 
egg,” is another mass-culture proponent of aggressive 
male behavior toward women. To college audiences on 
his lecture circuit, he announces that “A little bit of 
rape is good for a man’s soul.”
Although Brownmiller concludes her discussion of 
the heroic rapist with the prediction, “In the future men 
will cease to define their manhood in terms of their 
aggression toward, or protection of women,” her opti­
mism might be without foundation. When Evel Knievel 
appeared at the Snake River Canyon during Sepember of 
1974, the specter of the Angels at Altmount was rein­
carnated (Time September 24, 1974). At the “blue- 
collar Woodstock” Evel opened up the festivities the day 
before the jump by beating a cameraman who asked him 
to smile with his gold-and-diamond-headed walking 
stick. His biker idolizers roared approval and attacked 
fanother reporter and ground a cigarette out on his fore­
head. During the night preceding the jump, there were 
rumors of beatings and rapes. As the bikers were waiting 
for Evel to shoot over the canyon, one of them held up 
a sign admonishing “SHOW YOUR TITS.” Several of 
the women complied and climbed up on their boy 
friends’ shoulders. A gang of bikers stripped a woman 
and then threw her over a fence. In another vignette, 
“one girl stripped and, encouraged by the crowd, per­
formed fellatio on her boy friend while he shouted: 
‘For you Evel! For you, man!”’ The marching band 
from Knievel’s high school performed for the occasion 
and the majorettes were harassed by the bikers. One 
biker grabbed a majorette’s breast as a suggested pre­
lude to further intimate contact: “The girl retained her 
fixed plastic smile, but her eyes blulged in terror.” 
Brownmiller next deals with the training of the fe­
male in contemporary society. She first criticizes the 
Freudians for giving pseudo-scientific validity to the fe­
male ideology of rape, Sigmund Freud being the arch-vil- 
lian of most feminists. Freud concluded that women 
were necessarily masochistic because of their supposed 
passive role in coitus. Brownmiller, however, reserves 
her greatest wrath for Helene Deutsch, for believing 
Freud. Deutsch wrote that rape is an archetypal female 
experience, because women are inherently masochistic. 
As proof she offered the repeated fantasies women 
have of being raped. On the contrary, Karen Horney 
“argued that masochism in women was a neurotic mani­
festation culturally induced and culturally encouraged, 
rather than a normal, inevitable result of female bi­
ology.” Homey outlined four modes by which American 
culture indoctrinates females to be masochistic. Women 
are economically dependent on men and are estimated 
by society to be inferior. Women are also restricted to 
“spheres of life that are built chiefly upon emotional 
bonds, such as family life, religion or charity work.” 
Finally, “women presenting the specified masochistic 
traits are more frequently chosen by men.” Obviously, 
the above situation is not quite the same now as when 
Horney wrote these words, although the last behavioral 
reinforcer still operates. However, Horney also conclud­
ed that women have inherent rape fantasies.
The Freudian analysis of the rapist also attracts 
Brownmiller’s attention. They theorize that the rapist is
a psycho who had a bad relationship with his mother, an 
experience that was later duplicated with his wife. 
Brownmiller argues that the rapist is not a psycho and 
is usually too young to be married. When the Boston 
Strangler was still loose, Freudians constructed a profile 
of him which concluded that he had a bad relationship 
with his mother, since his early victims were all elderly. 
They added that his later victims who were younger 
brought their fate on themselves. Expressing the typical 
Freudian viewpoint, Benjamin Karpman writes that 
rapists are “victims of a disease from which many of 
them suffer more than their victims.”
Female writers also teach women that they want to 
be raped. Ayn Rand, author of The.Fountainhead, in 
describing the raping of her character Dominique, writes, 
“The act of a master taking shameful, contemptuous
Alex and his droogs
possession of her was the kind of rapture she had want­
ed.” “Ayn Rand,” Brownmiller points out, “is an ex­
ample of the ways in which a strong, male-directed wo­
man accommodates herself to what she considers to be 
superior male thought.” Anais Nin confided to her 
diary that “To be violated is perhaps a need in women,
a secret erotic need.” Slyvia Plath, whom Brownmiller 
considers was trapped in the dilemna of being forced 
to believed that she was inherently mascohistic, states 
in “Daddy”, “Every woman adores a Fascist, the boot in 
the face.”
Women are also taught that to be passive and play 
the role of victim is to be feminine and even beautiful. 
Brownmiller first focuses on fairy tales, certainly more 
influential on her generation than today. The lesson that 
Snow White, Cinderella and especially Red Riding Hood 
learned is to be passive, not to venture into the forest 
alone, and to wait for a man of princely stature to rescue 
you. Brownmiller believes that this same phenonemon is 
present in current movies. She states, “Our attractiveness 
to men, our sexual desireablility, is in direct proportion 
to our ability to play the victim. The self-destructive sex
queen has been a powerful symbol in our culture.” 
Marilyn Monroe and Jean Harlow are two prominent 
examples. The greatest asset in Ali McGraw’s budding 
career was that she died at the end of Love Story. 
Brownmiller quips, “One might conclude, if one did not 
know the facts, that women were more prone to death 
than men.”
Brownmiller believes that similar lessons are taught 
by the dailies, especially the Dailey News, which has the 
largest newspaper circulation in the world. Rape cases 
are carefully selected for inclusion and then elements of 
glamour are written in -- “It is rape dressed up to fit the 
male fantasy, lurid and ‘sexy.’” A survey of rape stories 
in the New York Dailey News reveals that “the favored 
victim in the tabloid headline was young, white, middle 
class and ‘attractive.’” The exploits of the Boston 
Strangler received little nationwide attention until he 
raped and murdered a young, white woman. In addition, 
“female victims are objectified and glamorized chiefly 
by the color of their hair, although it is odds-on certain 
that hair color had little to do with their death.” On the 
contrary, “ the occupation of a female victim is buried 
deep within the story of a tabloid newspaper unless 
the occupation has a glamorous connotation.” In other 
words, the occupation is not mentioned unless the 
woman is a stewardess or a go-go girl.
Although romance and confession magazines are 
usually dismissed as trivial, they are read by between 10 
and 20 million women, which means almost one-fifth of 
the United States’ female population. Every issue has a 
rape story and predictably, “the female victim is usually 
to blame.” In another confirmation of the female ideol­
ogy of rape in the romances, Brownmiller retells the 
story of Betty Jo who was dissatisfied by her sex life 
with her husband: “I was disappointed by his tender­
ness, I wanted to be overwhelmed by brute force.” 
Jack, her husband, goes to a psychiatrist for advice and 
soon thereafter he and Betty Jo begin to play “rape 
games.” Betty Jo reports on the experience: “I didn’t 
have any choice. I had to submit and be overwhelmed by 
his absolute strength and masculinity. It left me free, 
in a way I never felt before, to experience all the thrills
I could only dream about till then.” In most of the rape 
stories Brownmiller researched, “the rape functioned as
a positive catalyst for the heroine in her never-ending 
quest for a new boyfriend or an improved relationship 
with a husband.” The main lesson of the romances is 
that women should not be independent or “uppity.” 
Consider the following lead-in from a recent romance 
magazine: GANG-RAPED BY 7 BOYS - BECAUSE I 
LED THEIR GIRLS INTO A WOMEN’S LIB CLUB.
According to Brownmiller, “A woman is perceived 
by the rapist both as hated person and desired proper­
ty.” The final result of these mass-culture figures, the 
described education of men and women, and media ad­
vertisements is the continuance of a society of limit­
ed dimensions and options. A cultural milieu is created 
in which images of women containing the above two 
characteristics are prominent and in which the crime of 
rape is fostered. Women are often protrayed as objects, 
pieces of property. Sexual conquest also remains the ul­
timate, although not the only, expression or trophy of 
male potency. In The French Connection, famous for its 
chase scene, there is another less publicized chase scene, 
although its duration is only three seconds, in which 
Gene Hackman seduces a beautiful stranger. One mo-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-February 3, 1976
ment the viewer sees the woman pedaling her bicycle 
along the street with Hackman looking on, and in the 
next scene she is pedaling down his hall, this time with­
out her pants on. What manner of man is Popeye Doyle 
that he can work such miracles?
The final section of Brownmiller’s book is devoted to 
her suggested methods to combat rape. She strongly 
believes that current rape laws are archaic: “As the laws 
of rape continued to evolve they never shook free of 
their initial concept-that the violation was first and 
foremost a violation of male rights of possession.” There­
fore, Brownmiller does not believe that rapists should be 
given life imprisonment or executed, since the severity 
of these sentences results solely from male chagrin at 
a violation of their property. To her, it is more impor­
tant that he gets into jail in the first place. Prison terms 
should also vary according to whether the rapist used a 
weapon or if he inflicted permanent physical damage or 
disfigurement or lasting psychological damage on the vic­
tim. The only difficulty with this suggestion is that the 
extent of psychological injury is impossible to estimate 
in the short run. Brownmiller also believes that an end 
should be made to “the exemption from rape prosecu­
tions granted to husbands who force their wives into acts 
of sexual union by physical means.” The removal of the 
woman’s volition in this instance only contributes to her 
societal image as a useful objept. Future laws should also 
“equate economic threats, such as the threatened loss 
of a job, with threats of physical force in c^ses of rape.” 
Finally, rape victims should not have to prove that they 
resisted and their past sexual history should not be used 
as evidence in front of a jury. Both of the'se practices 
result, according to Brownmiller, from the absurd myth 
that women want to be raped.
Not only must the laws be changed, but Brownmiller 
insists that the enforcers of the laws must also be alter­
ed. “At present, female victims of sexual crimes of vio­
lence who seek legal justice must rely on a series of male 
authority figures whose masuline orientation, values and 
fears place them squarely in the offender’s camp.” 
Brownmiller wants fifty-fifty male-female integration of 
the police, armed forces, national guards, Supreme Court 
and state troopers - “thfe nation’s entire lawful power 
structure.”
In addition to these two changes, Brownmiller be­
lieves that the eradication of cultural sexism is necessy 
to eliminate rape. She focuses on prostitution and porn­
ography. Her objection to prostitution is that “when 
young men learn that females may be bought for a price, 
and that acts of sex command set prices, then how 
should they not also conclude that that which may be 
bought may also be taken without the civility of a 
monetary exchange?” She is outraged by the idea of
legalized prostitution, which now exists in Nevada,
Editoro
The Midnight Rambler
because “it institutionalizes the concept that it is man’s 
monetary right, if not his divine right, to gain access to 
the female body, and that sex is a female service that 
should not be denied the civilized male.” She predicts, 
“Until the day is reached when prostitution is totally 
eliminated the false perception of sexual access as an ad­
junct of male power and privilege will continue to fuel 
the rapist mentality.”
Brownmiller views pornography as “anti-female 
propaganda that, permeating our nation’s cultural out­
put, promotes a climate in which acts of sexual hostil­
ity directed against women are not only tolerated but 
ideologically encouraged.” To liberal objections that 
pornography is an art or represents a free expression of 
speech, she cites other legal fights minorities have con­
ducted against degrading images. Two cases in point are 
the discontinuance of the Frito Bandito as a promotion­
al device and the message at the beginning of The God­
father which states that it is purely coincidental that all 
the characters have Italian surnames.
Brownmiller recognizes, however, that the main im­
petus for curbing and eliminating rape must stem from 
female action. The male reaction will always be to insist 
the rapist is a demented stranger, an example of which 
can be seen every week on Hawaii Five 0, and advise
­fG/SyEGh' xyohxy' xP 
heS ex>' E¦GyGh ¦oyGEe
N•­ No•¦­E¦ta
aATURDAIf MASS •••••••••••••••••«•••• 7(00 P<M< ¦* T#ch House
IUNOAY MASS 10*30 AJA. Sdtww Noll (Rm 7900)
DAILY MASS ••••••••••••••••• StOO P«M< ~ Tectv Stev
Fathers John Welsh or Boh English 
Tech House 5123 Margaret Morrison 621*2911
v77777777777777F77777777777R777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777m7777777777F7777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777777F777777(
FINANCIAL AID FORUM
WALTER C. CATHIE .
Director of Financial Aid
SKIBO BALLROOM
Tuesday, February 10 ...................................11:30 a.m.
7:30 p.m.
Wednesday, February 11 ..................................4:00 p.m.
Come at one of the above times
Mr. Cathie will discuss financial aid policies, federal and 
state aid programs, and will be available to answer 
questions.
4sHHdHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHeHHHFFdHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHe­G•GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGFeHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH7HHHFHHHHHHHHH7HHH77777mR77777777777777777777777777777R7
the women to hide at home. Women must become a 
cohesive political1 force and re-educate themselves. It 
is at this point that Brownmiller most concretely ad­
dresses the question of what to do next week, although 
she obviously believes that an effort which only consid­
ers the short range will be ineffectual. Women should be 
trained to fight and win, instead of learning to be 
passive and demurring. Just glancing at a chart of the hu­
man body’s vulnerable points, Brownmiller contends, 
is not enough. Females must engage in competitive 
sports and training in self-defense from youth. The male 
instrument of rape, Brownmiller notes is also ironically 
his most vulnerable region, so that to the woman with 
training in self-defense, she advises, “Kick him in the 
balls, it’s your best maneuver.”
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
needs short stories and
VIDMUK CO.
Artists
Supplies
nuL E4 N5t7a EF4 
xt2HtmW 
in10uznL
9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Daily
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays
*
*
*
*
*
feature articles. 
Any interested, drop 
off a note in the 
TARTAN office.
UNIVERSITY
COPY
SERVICE
HIGHEST QUALITY XEROX COPIES
(All work unconditionally guaranteed) 
LOWEST PRICES 
Single copies per original - 5« 
Multiple copies per original:
1st copy 
2nd-50th copies 
51st
4«
3c
2c
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating • 3-hole punched 
colored paper • legal sire
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N Craig St 681 5411
»

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—February 3, 1976—Page 13
Alone & Pregnant? 
CALL BIRTHRIGHT 
in101L::
CONFIDENTIAL HELP FOUR BLOCKS 
FROM CAMPUS
f^ThereÍSa4^ * difference!!! *
J PREPARE POR 
%
Over 35 years 
of etpetience and success
:Regn agM..H.
Voluminous home 
study materials
MCAT OAT LSAT 6RE AT6SB : OCAT : CPAT : FLEX :ECFMG : NATL MED BOS:
* 
•pkes.H. GGlMG MsH WakR.GMRG CT epdMGHd W
¦
MMTaH ep. for *mn..Hd IG..kM 0•
Local Classes
Ml-9735
EDUCATIONAL CENTERUS' HVrMUTONtMuAiisis .jcF Frt
1925 MÜlDoa
nMna»
out Ztal *i
P» 1)217
K» u » C««i
MU CLOBBERED BY ALLEGHENY AND W&J
¿V Firm 
Basketball teams, even the great ones, 
go through a rocky period during the 
season where nothing seems to go right. 
Poor shooting, sluggish play, and no breaks 
from anyone are the major symptoms of 
this dreaded disease.
Carnegie-Mellon went through this type 
of bad spell last week as they were downed 
twice by conference foes. The Tartans 
came out on the short end of the stick 
against Washington &Jefferson, 53-37 and 
dropped a 73-60 decision to Allegheny.
On the road against W&J, the Tartans 
played a nightmarish second half in which 
they scored only 14 points. It was a half 
that CMU would like to block from their 
memory forever.
The Tartans shot an anemic 30% from 
the field for the entire contest and consid­
erably less in the second half as they let a 
23-31 halftime advantage slip away.
The Presidents didn’t exactly impress 
anyone with their shooting either as they 
only shot a miserable 37% for the game.
However, they did out rebound the 
Tartans 29-27 (mainly in the second half 
when CMU needed them the most).
Rossi and Novinski led the W&J scoring 
as they hit the hoop for 18 and 17 points. 
Paul Hamerly was the “big gun” for CMU 
with nine points.
TECH TOPPLED BY A.C. 73-60 
Allegheny, one of the top teams in the 
President’s Athletic Conference, used a 
patient offense and ?n iron-clad zone de­
fense in the second half to turn back the 
Tartans. *
The game opened as though it was a 
track meet with both teams racing up 
and down tl>e floor. It was a brisk pace 
with CMU able to stay with the Gators. 
The lead changed hands several times in 
the early going.a lovirï
glassful
mme peer lover to another
zhFxe ;ySsSy' Nx•¦of'w 6SYxGh •GNeGCof
IE* ** * .n. ^
¦tRH et9r5Hpw V7aV I37mF .c35r5 tat7m.F oHHraVrmp N3HHrar _7FV 1i I37mF.w d7aVF. d35 F_3 RmWr5 
FVr g3t5W. . Photo by Courtney Larson
CMU's scoring came from all directions, 
inside and out, in the first few minutes. 
But Dave Malone, a 6-4 senior from Pitts­
burgh, kept the Gators close with deadly 
accuracy from long range.
After the opening whirlwind pace, both 
teams started working with more discipline 
to exploit each other’s defense. CMU went 
inside against Allegeheny’s man-to-man 
press that was so tenacious that it looked 
like they had picked the Tartans up as they
came out of the locker room.Marty Costa, 
who plays an aggressive style of ball similar 
to Boston Celtic Dave Cowens, and Hamer­
ly pounded the Gators for 18 first half 
points.
Allegheny patiently moved the ball 
against CMU’s 1-3-1 matchup zone and took 
advantage of the‘Tartans lack of quickness 
with many lobs to the weak side. Ed 
Mucha came off the bench to score 12 of 
his game high 21 points in the first half.
Tech failed to convert on some crucial 
1 and 1 foul situations midway through the 
half to counter the visitors high percentage 
shooting. Allegheny led at the half, 37-32.
Allegheny went to a zone defense in the 
second half designed to collapse on Hamer­
ly and Costa. CMU’s two big men were 
harassed by as many as three Gators every 
time they got the ball inside. The strategy 
worked as the Tartans inside game was 
completely shut down.
Against a defense like this, the Tartans 
needed to get some outside scoring punch 
to loose the stranglehold. The usually de­
pendable outside shooting of Dane Wukich 
and Larry DiCicco was not there and CMU 
was in for a long second half. DiCicco at 
times seemed to be bothered by a mask 
that he was wearing to protect an injured 
lip sustained in the W&J game.
Allegheny got strong rebounding on 
both ends of the court and continued their 
deliberate offense to open big leads aginst 
the Tartans. They shot a fine 47% for the 
afternoon and coasted to the victory, 73- 
60.
Once again, Hamerly, Costa, and DiCic­
co led the Tartan attack as they tallied 
16,14 and 10 points respectively. •
Coach Dave Maloney’s Tartans’ record 
dropped to 2 and 10 overall. CMU ended 
the PAC’s first round robin play with a 2-5 
standing.
Carnegie—Mellon plays on Wednesday 
night and Saturday afternoon again this
week. Tomorrow the team travels to Be­
thany to try and repeat against the Bisons. 
John Carroll comes to Skibo Gym Satur­
day at 2:00 pm. Tech will try to avenge a 
73-71 defeat from the Cleveland college.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN-February 3, 1976
JOT THIS DOWN
•t52 —tmm3FF7 D57aVF? tmW •72r CtHHt_tp Df34 1L? F7r FVr .c35r4 Photo by Mary K. GroupeKNIGHTS LANCE CMU
by Mary Kay Groupe
In November, neither snow nor sleet nor 
the Gannon Knights could keep the Tartan 
skaters from a 6-5 victory. On Sunday, Jan­
uary 25, the Gannon club came to Sewick- 
ley and carried home the rematch by a 
score of 7-4.
The ice that night was slow: soft and 
sloppy and not conducive to the passing 
offense favored by CMU. Then again, the 
Tartans seemed to have trouble finding 
anyone to pass to. The absences of Larry 
Stuever, Murray Leety, and Tom Grimm 
had necessitated a total revamping of both 
offensive and defensive lines, and the club 
in general had difficulty anticipating their 
teammates’ whereabouts at critical mo­
ments.
As at the last game versus Gannon, the 
Tartans came on strong in the first period. 
An offsides call invalidated an early Tartan 
goal; still, a short wrist shot by Dave Cor­
nelius at 7:24 made CMU the first to 
score. (As is usual for Tartan home games, 
each period was supposed to run 15 min­
utes.) Gannon tied it up on a slapshot 
which arched over Don Jacobson’s upraised 
arm and into the net. Before the period 
ended, Gannon had a second goal and Car- 
negie-Mellon required a new goalie. At 
about 14:10, Donny had reached for a save 
and fallen, wrenching his trick knee badly.
So in the second period, Frank Sciulli 
manned the nets. Gannon scored two 
goals within minutes of each other. The 
first came from a three-on-one play at the 
faceoff circle; it was a good shot that 
passed high on the glove side. The second 
shot bounced off Frank’s glove and into 
the goal.
At this point, the Tartans were down 
4-1. Slowly and stubbornly, they went to 
work on a comeback. A strong offensive 
effort in front of the Gannon net pro­
duced the second goal for CMU. It seemed 
as though the goalie had blocked a dozen 
quick shots when Dave Cornelius knocked 
the puck in to make it 4-2. Towards the
YOUR 
DEGREE
Permanently laminated 
on wood. Exclusive Non­
glare Process by Lamin-Arf 
Co.
Available at the 
BOOK STORE 
Baker Hall
end of the period, the familiar Kenworthy- 
Gallaway team got back into action. Mike 
Kenworthy carried the puck across the 
blue line and dropped it neatly to Mike 
Gallaway, who shot it past the surprised 
Gannon goalie.
That was a smooth and well-executed 
play which illustrates the traditional 
strength of the club, and suggests a reason 
for many of their current difficulties. This 
type of play succeeds most often when a 
line is accustomed to skating together -- 
which is not the case on the Tartan lines at 
present. The split seconds of hesitation 
while the man with the puck looks around 
for someone to pass to can give the other 
team enough time to foil the play.
The second period was also notable for 
having the greatest number of penalty 
calls: two concurrent minors for a grand 
total of four penalties. Only two more pe­
nalties were called in the game, one in each 
of the other periods, both against Gannon. 
Granted that this was a relatively clean 
game, a few more penalty calls would not 
have been unjustified and could have tight­
ened the game up considerably.
In the first two minutes of the third 
Continued on page fifteen
IM HANDBALL—Schedules are out. Pick 
them up in the IM office. Games start 
Wednesday, February 4th.
WATER BASKETBALL—Games start next 
week. Check IM Board for practice 
times. Bob Matysek is Commissioner. 
He can be reached at Phi Kappa Theta.
WRESTLING-IM wrestlers be sure to sign 
up for practice times.
TABLE TENNIS—(singles,doubles) Entries 
due February 3rd in ’the IM office.
RIFLE & CALL POOL—Entries due Febru­
ary third.
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS—IM
NIGHT WILL BE FRIDAY MARCH 5th.
Photo by Courtney Larson 
67Ar5 W7.IHtp7ma d359 7m ._79 9rrF Ht.F EtFR5Wtp
SWIMMERS WIN MEET
by Diane Maddock
The CMU Swim team showed a brilliant 
display of excellence at their meet on Sat­
urday against John Carroll. The swimmers 
placed well in each of the events which led 
to the final score of 58-55 CMU. The 
events were close and the score remained 
close throughout the afternoon and the 
tension mounted with each event. In the 
400 Medley Race, the team of Joe Dickey, 
Bob Gierard, Harry Coleman and Jeff 
Bland captured 1st place to excite the 
team:
200 freestyle 2nd place
50 freestyle 2nd place
3rd place 
2nd placeDiving
200 Butterfly 
100 freestyle
500 freestyle
3rd place 
3rd place 
2nd place 
3rd place 
2nd place 
3rd place
Dave Bankert 
Jeff Bland 
Pete Dickey 
Tony Carring­
ton
Brian Kay 
Pete Dickey 
Wilson Boyce 
Butler 
John Rossi 
Dave Bankert
200 Breaststroke
2nd place Bob Gierard
3rd place Ned Uber
The 1000 yard freestyle resulted in the 
best times of all our 3 swimmers [Rossi, 
Palssee, Kilburg]. The 200 yard medley 
was an exciting and very close race with 
the entire body of spectators cheering the 
swimmers on.
The 200 yard backstroke race resulted 
in both a school record and pool record 
being broken by Joe Dickey with a time of 
2:12.00. The last relay was the climax of 
the meet. With the fate of the meet resting 
on the outcome of this last race. The team 
was really psyched for this race and the 
final event resulted in a first place for 
CMU. The team of Butler, Boyce, Bankert 
and Bland saved the day!! The whole team 
and the entire audience cheered the team 
to the final victory. The meet ended with 
the traditional act of throwing the coach 
Donna Maiello into the pool. There was 
never a happier person around except 
maybe the 3 individual swimmers them­
selves. The spirits were high and next week 
the team travels to Bethany for another 
victory.
PROFESSORS: take a
LESSON IN GRACIOUS 
HOSPITALITY!
Who knows better than us? For banquets, confer 
ences, parties, meetings and other faculty func­
tions ... let us show you what we know! Distinc­
tive meeting rooms accommodate anywhere from 
10 to 1,000. No detail will be left unattended as 
you relax and dine. We offer a tradition of excel­
lence to the academic community. Remember... 
when it comes to hospitality and service ... we 
wrote the book! „
CtS V
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
4415 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Telephone 621-7700
Singles: $18-$29 Doubles: $26-$33 
Free Parking For Overnight Guests 
Children Under 16 Years Of Age 
Stay Free In Room With Parents
A New Profession forCollege Graduates!
“Development Specialist”
Summer Program: June 14-September 3,1976 
Fall Program: September 27-December 17,1976
If you are interested in applying the knowledge you 
have acquired in your four years of college to community 
service... consider a career in development.
Adelphi is the first university to provide advanced 
training to college graduates for a career in this steadily 
growing field.
A career in development offers you multiple oppor­
tunities to use your diverse talents and knowledge in a 
professional capacity and gives you the opportunity to 
make a contribution to your community in association 
with top civic, cultural and industrial leaders.
For a free brochure about this career opportunity 
mail the coupon below.
NAUF PHONF —T 
ADDRESS
CITYSTATEZIP
? SUMMER 1*76 ? FALL 1976
A ¦ 1 1 • IN COOPERATION WITHit —J __ 1 __ L.. THE NATIONAL CENTERI inoi/lfll FOR DFVELOPMENT 
II TRAINING
o6S>¦eG ­fG/SyEGh' CPI 8
Mail to:
Mrs. Laurel Isaacs 
Development Specialist Program 
University College 
Divsion of Special Programs 
Adelphi University 
Garden City, N Y. 11530

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 3, 1976-Page 15
;P0RTS EDITORIALNTRAMURAL SLAUGHTERHOUSE
MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS
Z>v Elly Zimmerman 
Having the Steelers compete against 
"arnegie-Mellon's Varsity Football team is 
as absurd as some of the match ups in in- 
Itraniural basketball this year.
Complaints have been lodged against 
teams such as the Banana Griffs (Pika), 
/ho are playing in the minor leagues, 
)Ut are crushing their opponents with 
scores like 72-31 and 87-20. Other teams 
/hich seem to be playing out of their 
¡league are the two intermediate teams, 
|Badd ;titd Katoosh. Their victories have 
,1-rn Vv -n - handles.
A solution may be to have the IM Board 
Ivote on whether a controversial team 
Ishould be allowed to play in their league. 
I The scores of the games, the past team’s 
Irecord, etc. would be used to make the de­
cision. If a team was found to be in the 
wrong league, they would be allowed to 
¡finish the season but would not be allowed
to compete in the playoffs.
Students can only speculate as to why 
these teams are in their respective leagues. 
Reasons range from getting an easy trophy 
to not knowing the caliber of the league 
competition (i.e. Freshman teams).
When a member of the Griffs team was 
asked why their team was competing in 
the minor league the player replied, “Be­
cause everyone of the team wanted to play 
with Tom Wood.”
Recently the Intramural Board voted 
that Tom Wood would be allowed to com­
pete in minor league basketball even 
though he is an alumni and has no official 
status in the university. This ruling was in 
direct violation of the IM constitution. 
This is another issue altogether. The case 
in point is that since the IM Board is in the 
process of revising their constitution, this 
would be a good time to consider proposalsCMU DEFEATS W&J
but lose to CSC in overtime
by Gordon Morrison
The CMU Women’s Varsity basketball 
team played on a level nearly equal to the 
competition. Wednesday night, the women 
played W&J as the first part of a CMU vs. 
W&J basketball doubleheader. The W&J 
women’s team is by far the weakest team 
on the CMU schedule. The CMU women 
played poorly enough to lose, but managed 
to salvage a 34-32 win. Neither team shot 
very well, with CMU making only 16% 
from the field. The game was also marked 
by many fouls and turnovers. Bright spots 
for the team were the 12 points scored 
by Karen Azinger and the rebounding by 
Elly Zimmerman (16), Marianne Vaki6ner 
(11), and Barb Owens (9).
The CMU women did not look like
the same team when they played Cali­
fornia on Saturday. The California team 
won in overtime by a score of 71-70. 
Both teams shot well and played fairly 
well overall. The CMU team came from 11 
points down to tie the game at the end of 
regulation play at 62 all. The CMU team 
had several chances to win but luck was 
not with them. They played better under 
pressure than they did during the first half, 
when there was little pressure. With their 
upcoming schedule, there should be plenty 
of pressure. CMU will play Pitt and Geneva 
College this week. Coach Jane Fisk was 
encouraged by the scoring of Karen Azin­
ger (22), Barb Owens (16), Ingrid Goedicke 
(15), and Elly Zimmerman (13). Barb led 
the rebounders with 19, followed by Elly 
and Mary Patrick with 11.
GREAI BOOH HMDS FOR
TECHNICAL MINDS.
:iLo OF
iUEHOdIEiEIVo
VOLUMo:
OdIGINiLLY
tUBLI:HoD
EO *35
Expand your 
t eeh nieal/seien t i tic 
library now. Save 
as much as 70%, 80% 
or even more. Many 
of these sale luioks 
are out of print 
and hard to find. All 
contain a wealth 
of authoritative data 
lx»tli historical 
and contemporary.
Those and Mam 
Other Fields
? Chemistry
? Mathematics
? Physics
? Kntfinooring
? Computers
? Klectronics
CMU Bookstore
for dealing with teams that enter the wrong 
league.
The purpose of intramurals, especially 
the minor leagues, is to have fun. Being 
beaten by twenty or more points, as any 
team will attest, is not fun but rather 
quite the opposite. It is a humiliating and 
totally discouraging experience.
Any pruposals or suggestions for elimina­
ting this problem should be directed toward 
the IM Board or Earl Birdie, Director of IM’s.
WL
1.Pride50
2.PIKA3I
3.ATO31
4.S&P21
5.Black Heat21
6.Orangatangs2'2
7.BTP22
8.GSIA13
9.SAE02
10.PKT02
11.Celtics02
12.Studs03PIKA UPSETS ATO
by Roger Geddes
PIKA pulled off the major upset in 
intramural basketball thus far by knock­
ing off ATO, 42-37, but Pride still remains 
in first place winning their fifth straight 
game last week.
Down by as much as twelve points in 
the second quarter, PIKA pulled to within 
five, 37-32, with about 2xh minutes left in 
the game and then proceeded to score ten 
unanswered points to win 42-37. The ten 
point rally was sparked when Tom Binnie 
was flagrantly fouled when scoring on a 
layup. He was awarded two free throws 
and after making the first one, he missed 
the second, but PIKA rebounded the ball 
and tied the score. ATO’s shooting went 
completely cold and PIKA added the last 
five points mostly from the free throw 
line.
Pride, the only major league team still 
undefeated, won over PIKA last week, 
49-37, and then came from behind to beat 
Salt & Pepper, 44-42.
Daryl White, who scored 24 points, hit 
a jumper to give S & P a short lived 42-41 
lead with 32 seconds left to play. Mike 
Mensch of Pride was fouled and hit on one 
of his free throws to tie the score with 25 
seconds left. A full court press caused
S & P to turn the ball over and Mensch 
won the game with three seconds left on a
layup.
The Orangatangs who could turn out 
to be the spoiler got the hot hand from 
Ralph Domenick as he connected for 
fifteen points in the second half to win 
over Beta, 42-38. Down 19-16 at the half, 
the Orangatangs scored the first eight 
points of the second half and then held on 
to a small lead for the rest of the game.
In the intermediate leagues, the top 
ranked teams continue to win easily over 
their opponents. Badd knocked off the 
Tiny Gorillas, 50-15, Katoosh demolished 
Bugs Bunny, 65-18, and the All Stars 
annihilated the Gay Jews, 66-20.
The standout team in the minor leagues 
seems to be the Banana Griffs of the As­
tros Division. Their last two victories have 
come by scores of 72-31 over the Heads 
and 87-20 over Reynolds.
TOP MAJOR LEAGUE SCORERS
1.White (S & P)24.3
2.Hopkins (Pride)16.4
3.Sabo (Celtics)14.0
4.Marusic (ATO)12.5
5.Domenick (Orang.)12.0
6.Lefferty (Studs)12.0
7.Sandberg (PKT)11.5
8.Coates (Pride)11.4
9.Fitzgerald (Celtics)11.0
10.Schifman (SAE)11.0
Photo by Mary K. Groupey7aVF _7ma4 •tFF C3HW.97FVw a3r. 7mF3 FVr ht5Ftm mrF.4
HOCKEY CLUB LOSES TO GANNON
Continued from page four* :en 
period, the Tartans strove valiantly and 
gained their tie. Mark Jonnetti sent a pass 
to Mike Gallaway; Mike shot the puck into 
the crease, and while the Gannon goalie 
was still looking for it, Mark put it in a 
swift rebound goal.
Unfortunately, the club let up at this 
point and Gannon grabbed the chance to 
score two relatively easy goals. In their 
anxiety to catch up, the Tartans began to 
play the puck rather than the man -- which 
can be fatal, and was. This allowed the 
Knights to get a lot of shots off in front .of 
the net; it is not surprising that two of 
them eventually went in. Gannon outshot 
the Tartans 10-3 in the first half of the 
third period.
Then Frank Sciullu was hurt badly and 
had to be carried off the ice. By that time,
it was about 9:50 pm -- which is only rele­
vant because Sewickley had a high school 
game scheduled for 10:00, and they de­
creed that at 10 o’clock the Tartan game 
would end. So the clock was advanced a 
couple of minutes, right wing Matt Gold­
smith took over the nets, and the half­
period was played in about two minutes 
worth of running time. Oh -- somewhere 
in there, Gannon scored their seventh goal.
At present, it looks as though Don Ja­
cobson will join Murray Leety and Tom 
Grimm in sitting out the rest of the season. 
Larry Stuevcr should be back on defense 
soon, and we hope to see Frank Sciulli 
back in the Tartan nets before the end of 
the season. The Tartans are scheduled to 
play Cincinnati al Sewickley on Sunday, 
February 8.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-February 3, 1976
v>
CMU&*summer&76
SUMMER 
SESSIONS 
CMU 1976
6R57ma FVr .R99r5w 1Lki FVr5r _7HH gr F_3 
.7B0_rr2 .r..73m.w t. d3HH3_.b
1.F E7B0srr2 Er..73m
•tp 1u T —Rmr 1:
yraRHt5 ­mWr5a5tWRtFr N3R5.r.
nmW E7B0srr2 Er..73m 
—Rmr n1 T —CGp ,u 
¦5r N3HHrar ¦53a5t9w NPo 
oWAtmcrW ¦Htcr9rmF&St5Hp 
oW97..73m ¦53a5t9 
­I_t5W ;3RmW
yraRHt5 ­mWr5a5tWRtFr tmW C5tWRtFr N3R5.r.
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION
WILL BE
$26 PER UNIT
GRADUATE TUITION
WILL BE
$30 PER UNIT
xFVr5 s352.V3I.w •t.Fr5 NHt..r. tmW 
EIrc7tH ¦53a5t9. _7HH gr tmm3RmcrW
hVr d3HH3_7ma 7. FVr FrmFtF7Ar H7.F 3d c3R5.r. F3 
gr 3ddr5rW4 hVr tcFRtH c3R5.r. F3 gr 3ddr5rW _7HH 
WrIrmW 3m FVr .FRWrmF 5r.I3m.r4
¦Hrt.r a7Ar p3R5 FrmFtF7Ar 5rIHp t. 
.33m t. I3..7gHr4
Carnegie-Mel Ion University
ft9r
>3ctH oWW5r..
t9 7mFr5r.FrW 7m FVr d3HH3_7ma c3R5.r. 
Number Session (1) or (2)
1.
2.
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER PROGRAMS
;73H3apb
NVr97.F5pb
N39IRFr5
Ec7rmcrb
•tFVr9tF7c.b
¦Vp.7c.b
EFtF7.F7c.b
;73FrcVm3H3apb
N7A7H
Sma7mrr57mab
•4•4E4b
fRc4 Ec74 q Sma4 
•R.7cb
6r.7amb
o5Fb
Sc3m397c.b
SmaH7.Vb
e7.F35pb
•3Wr5m 
>tmaRtar. tmW 
>7Fr5tFR5rb
¦Hrt.r 5rFR5m FV7. c3RI3m F3b
675rcF35 3d ER99r5 ¦53a5t9. 
y339 1u: st5mr5 etHH 
Nt5mra7r0•rHH3m ­m7Ar5.7Fp 
¦7FF.gR5aVw ¦rmm.pHAtm7t 1zn1,
NHt.. .cVrWRHr. _7HH gr tmm3RmcrW tdFr5 7F 7. 
G WrFr597mrW _V7cV c3R5.r. _7HH gr 3ddr5rW4 [
u,01n1 •3Wr5m ;73H3apL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
uL01uz SHr9rmFt5p ¦Vp.7ctH NVr97.F5p ¦57mc7IHr. DErHd0¦tcrW?L Rm7F.D1?uL01ui ;3mW7ma tmW EF5RcFR5tH ¦57mc7IHr. DErHd0¦tcrW?L Rm7F.D1?
uL011k x5atm7c NVr97.F5p GL Rm7F.D1?
uL0n1: x5atm7c NVr97.F5p GGL Rm7F.Dn?
uL01Un ¦Vp.7ctH NVr97.F5p GL Rm7F.D1?
uL0nU, ¦Vp.7ctH NVr97.F5p GGL Rm7F.D1?
1z01uU GmF53WRcF73m F3 N39IRF7ma o DPxyhyof?L Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
1z0111 GmF53WRcF73m F3 N39IRF7ma ; Dm3m0Pxyhyof?L Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
1z0n11 PRmWt9rmFtH EF5RcFR5r. 3d ¦53a5t997maL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
n101n1 NtHcRHR. G11 Rm7F.D1?
n101nn NtHcRHR. GG11 Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
n101n, NtHcRHR. GGG11 Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
n10nzL 67ddr5rmF7tH SKRtF73m. tmW >7mrt5 oHarg5tL Rm7F.D1?
n10niu ¦t5F7tH 67ddr5rmF7tH SKRtF73m. tmW /rcF35 omtHp.7.L Rm7F.Dn?
,,01n1 ¦Vp.7c. Gb •rcVtm7c. DErHd0¦tcrW?1u Rm7F.D1?
,,01nn ¦Vp.7c. GGb ertF stAr. tmW xIF7c. DErHd0¦tcrW?1u Rm7F.D1?
,,01n, ¦Vp.7c. GGGb SHrcF57c7Fp tmW •tamrF7.9 DErHd0¦tcrW?1u Rm7F.D1?
,,01nU ¦Vp.7c. G/b oF397c ¦Vp.7c. tmW EF5RcFR5r 3d •tFFr5L Rm7F.Dn?
,,01nz GmF53WRcF73m F3 o.F53m39pL Rm7F.Dn?
,i0n11 ¦53gtg7H7Fp tmW oIIH7rW EFtF7.F7c. GL Rm7F.D1?
,i0n1n ¦53gtg7H7Fp tmW oIIH7rW EFtF7.F7c. GGL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
,i0n1L EFtF7.F7ctH •rFV3W. d35 6tFt omtHp.7. GL Rm7F.D1?
Un0zzz e3.I7FtH GmFr5m.V7IAt54 Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
1n01u, Ep.Fr9. Sma7mrr57ma GL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
1n0nuz GmF53WRcF73m F3 Sma7mrr57ma •rcVtm7c.L Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
nk0,nn ¦53cr.. •rFtHHR5ap GGL Rm7F.D1?nk0,,U ¦Vp.7ctH •rFtHHR5ap GGL Rm7F.Dn?
,L0nnk omtHp.7.w EpmFVr.7. tmW SAtHRtF73mL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
nz0kku omtHp.7. tmW GmFr5I5rFtF73m 3d yrtcF35 xg.r5AtgHr.L Rm7F.Dn?
Dc3R5.r gra7m. 3m —Rmr ,?
zk0:ik oW97m7.F5tF73m tmW ERIr5A7.73m 7m •R.7c SWRctF73mi Rm7F.Dn?
zk0:k, ¦57mc7IHr. 3d •R.7c SWRctF73mi Rm7F.Dn?
zk0:kz N3mFr9I35t5p ¦53gHr9. 7m •R.7c SWRctF73mi Rm7F.Dn?
zk0:kU •R.7c SW4 s352.V3Ib o.7tm •R.7cw 6tmcrw hVrtF5r
tmW o5F d35 o9r57ctm EcV33H. D—Rmr n10—RHp n?i Rm7F.
zk0:,z NV35tH hrcVm7KRr. d35 nuFV NrmFR5p •R.7ci Rm7F.
D—Rmr n:0—RHp n?
z1011i NtHH7a5tIVpL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0nz1w kz1 Nr5t97c.L Rm7F.Dn?
iu011Lwk1L 65t_7maL Rm7F.Dn?
iu01nzw knz 65t_7ma d35 ¦t7mF7ma tmW EcRHIFR5rL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0nizw kiz Ptg57c 6r.7amL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0,Unw kUn CHt..gH3_7maL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0n,kwk,k GmFtaH73L Rm7F.Dn?
iu0n,zw k,z >7FV3a5tIVpL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0,:uw k:u N3mFr9I35t5p o5FL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0nzUw kzU •rFtHc5tdF.L Rm7F.Dn?
iu0nniw kni ¦t7mF7maL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0n,1w k,1 Ec5rrm ¦57mF7maL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0,z1w kz1 ¦35crHt7m s352.V3IL Rm7F.Dn?
iu0Ui,w ki, Nt5ArW G9tar D—Rmr n10—RHp L?L Rm7F.
iu0UiUw kiU stB F3 ;53mJr D—RHp 1n0,u?L Rm7F.
iu0,iLw kiL htIr.F5p s352.V3I D—Rmr n10—RHp n?L Rm7F.
k,01uu Sc3m4 omtHw tmW N3mF4 ¦53g4 G1n Rm7F.D1?
k,0nuu Sc3m4 C53_FV tmW PHRcFRtF73m.1n Rm7F.D1?k,0nzu yr.3R5cr oHH3cw 7m •t52rF Sc3m41n Rm7F.D1?
ki0nLk >7Fr5tFR5r 3d FVr og.R5WL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
ki0zzu SBI3.7F73m GL Rm7F.D1?ki01LL >7Fr5t5p G9ta7mtF73mL Rm7F.Dn?
ki0,n1 EVt2r.Irt5rL Rm7F.Dn?
ki0zui s57F7ma s352.V3IL Rm7F.Dn?
ki0k1u hVr oar 3d NVtRcr51n Rm7F.Dn?
ki0:uu N5rtF7Ar s57F7ma1n Rm7F.Dn?
ki0:n: o9r57ctm 65t9t 3d FVr h_rmF7rFV NrmFR5p1n Rm7F.Dn?
ki0Lu1 N3mFr9I35t5p >7maR7.F7c hVr357r. tmW FVr
hrtcV7ma 3d SmaH7.V1n Rm7F.Dn?
kL0n,i •7m357F7r. 7m o9r57ctm e7.F35pL Rm7F.D1?
kL01un hVr EVtI7ma 3d sr.Fr5m N7A7H7JtF73m GGL Rm7F.Dn?
kL0:kL GmFr5m.V7I 7m NR557cRHR9 6rArH3I9rmF1n Rm7F.Dn?
kL0:Lu ¦r5.IrcF7Ar. 7m ­5gtm e7.F35p1n Rm7F.Dn?
kL0:U: N579r tmW —R.F7cr 7m o9r57ctm e7.F35p1n Rm7F.Dn?
kL0:zi hVr hrtcV7ma 3d e7.F35p1n Rm7F.Dn?
kL0:zk yrtW7ma. 7m e7.F35pi01n Rm7F.Dn?
kL0:k, 67..r5FtF73m ¦53.IrcFR.At54 Rm7F.Dn?
kL0:kU 67..r5FtF73mAt54 Rm7F.Dn?
Xn01uk ¦53a5t99rW P5rmcVAt54 Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n01n, ¦53a5t99rW Cr59tmAt54 Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n01U, ¦53a5t99rW EItm7.VAt54 Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n01k1 SHr9rmFt5p GFtH7tm DyraRHt5 tmW&35 ErHd0¦tcrW?L Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n01kn SHr9rmFt5p GFtH7tm DyraRHt5 tmW&35 ErHd0¦tcrW?L Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0uu1 GmFrm.7Ar SmaH7.V d35 m3m0mtF7Ar .Irt2r5.b C5t99t5L Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0uu, GmFrm.7Ar SmaH7.V d35 m3m0mtF7Ar .Irt2r5.b
s57F7ma tmW yrtW7maL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0uuz GmFrm.7Ar SmaH7.V d35 m3m0mtF7Ar .Irt2r5.b
x5tH N39I5rVrm.73mL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0uuk GmFrm.7Ar SmaH7.V d35 m3m0mtF7Ar .Irt2r5.b
N3mAr5.tF73mL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0u1, h5tm.HtF73mL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0u1z ;t.7c hrcVm7ctH h5tm.HtF73mL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0u1k ;t.7c hrcVm7ctH s57F7maL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0un1 SHr9rmFt5p o5tg7cL Rm7F.D1? tmW Dn?
:n0nLn N•­ ER99r5 ¦53a5t9 7m P5tmcr
D¦5r5rKR7.7Frb x57rmFtF73m c3R5.r h5tm.7F73m
F3 ¦t57. T , Rm7F.? .Ft5F. •t5cV nL?L Rm7F.D1?
{>>
____LD1? ! P75.F Er..73mb •tp 1u0—Rmr 1:? Dn? ! Erc3mW Er..73mb —Rmr n10—RHp ,u
‘
