Tartan Visits The 
Margaret Morrison Tea Room 
See Story on Page 4artan
All Organization Budgets 
Due in Dean's Office 
No Later Than May 12
VOL. 41—No. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 4, 1948
Winsome Will’ Talks; 
Names Carnival Court
Tartan Wins Back Scottie Scoop; 
Theta Xi To Fete Potential Queens
With a triumphant wave of its armor-plated hide, the Tar­
tan has dislodged the names of the members of :the Spring 
Carnival court from the paws of Scottie, and can now an­
nounce, through the courtesy of Spring Carnival committee 
Chairman Wilton “Winsome Will” Haywins, that the Queen
will be chosen from: i
June Clark Castner, Patricia 
Jones, Barbara Jones, Louie Deane 
Miller, Elizabeth Jane Witherow, 
Nancy Wickwire, and Helen Zim­
merman Thunhurst.
One of these seven girls, who 
were selected for Spring Carnival 
court at an all-school election 
April 1, will be judged queen at a 
dinner to be held May 6 at Theta 
Xi fraternity house and crowned 
during the call day and coronation 
ceremony on Friday, May 14.
The judges, who will meet the 
queen candidates for the first time 
at the Theta Xi dinner, are Mrs. 
Alexander Potts, Miss Lenore 
Brundige, Miss Vicky Burdell, Mr. 
Reed Hasty, and Mrs. James 
Klingensmith.
The court represents three so­
rorities and Citcom Clan and in­
cludes sisters Bobby and Pat Jones 
and two girls with Mrs. before 
their names, Mrs. Richard Castner 
and Mrs. Wilfred Thunhurst.
The Jones sisters and Jane 
Witherow are members of Kappa 
Alpha Theta, Deanie Miller and 
Helen Thunhurst were candidates 
of Kappa Kappa Gamma, June 
Castner is a Delta Gamma, and 
Nancy Wickwire was backed by Citcom Clan.
All seven are seniors with Pat 
Jones and Jane Witherow from 
the department of painting and 
design, Nancy Wickwire a drama 
student, Deanie Miller and Helen 
Thunhurst secretarial majors, 
Bobby Jones a chemist, and June 
Castner as a Clothing and Textiles 
option from the Home Economics department.
Theta Xi won the honor of ban­
queting the potential queens in a 
lottery with six other fraternities 
[Continued on page 10]
More Carnival 
Dance Tickets 
To Be Sold
One hundred Spring Carnival 
tickets will be placed on sale in 
Skibo on Wednesday, May 5, from 
11:30 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. These 
tickets are in addition to the 1100 
tickets sold last week.
Spring Carnival committee re­
leased the extra tickets in re­
sponse to the heavy demand, and 
to accommodate veterans who 
were unable to buy any of the 
first 1100 tickets because of their 
end-of-the-month financial status.
To avoid confusion at the 
dances, the committee has an­
nounced that there will be two 
separate entrances and check 
rooms. Preliminary plans call for 
persons holding tickets bearing 
the smaller numbers to use en­
trance number one and those 
bearing higher numbers, number 
two. The exact allotment for each 
door will be announced in next 
week’s Tartan; signs will also be 
placed at the doors on the nights 
of the dances.
Concession tickets will be used 
instead of cash for refreshments 
at the dances. These tickets will 
be sold several days before Spring 
Carnival as well as at the dances.
Barry Evans 
New Editor 
Of Scottie
Barry Evans was elected editor 
of the 1948-1949 Scottie at the 
annual staff election on April 21. 
A member of the Scottie staff for 
two years, Evans has held the po­
sitions of circulation manager and 
business manager. He is a soph­
omore in management, a member 
of SAM, and of Delta Upsilon 
fraternity.
Donald Stitt, also a management 
sophomore, a member of SAM 
and of Delta Upsilon, was elected 
business manager. He has previ­
ously served as circulation mana­
ger of the Scottie.
Tom Reilly, management soph­
omore, will be associate editor; 
Fred Brown, junior printer, will 
be production director; and Rob­
ert Hazard, P&D sophomore, will 
again be art editor.
Evans has announced that the 
Scottie constitution will be re­
written in the near future. Staff 
positions will be outlined, re­
sponsibilities of each member 
clearly defined, and the voting 
procedure changed.Under the present system, only 
the executive staff, listed above, 
are entitled to vote. Proposed 
changes in the constitution would 
give each executive staff mem­
ber two votes and each general 
staff member one vote.As Evans puts it, “Too much 
i control by one group is not the 
best thing. In the past the staff 
has been predominantly made up 
of members of Delta Upsilon. By 
widening the basis of voting and 
giving more people a voice in the 
operation of the magazine, we 
hope to increase student body in­
terest.”
Tartan Notice
All members of the Tartan staff with the exception of 
those in the business depart­
ment are requested to attend a meeting to be held in the office 
at 7:30 p.m., Friday, May 8. 
Staff promotions for the com­
ing year will be announced at 
this time.
Coronation, 
Call Day Set 
For Open Air
Spring Carnival’s traditional 
Call Day and Coronation cere­
mony is scheduled for the Sylvan 
Theater behind the Fine Arts 
building for Friday, May 14 at 
2:30 p. m. with the crowning of 
the queen, calls for honorary fra­
ternities, the Kiltie Band, and the 
Men’s Glee club as major attrac­
tions.
Nine honorary fraternities and 
organizations, Beaux Arts, Cwens, 
Scimitors, Delta Skull, Eta Kappa 
Nu, Mortar Board, Omicron Delta 
Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and 
Tau Beta Pi will make the calls 
for their new members at this pro­
gram. For most of these societies, 
from ten to twenty members will 
be called.
In addition, Theta Tau, profes­
sional engineering society, will 
present an award to the most 
promising senior engineer.
The other award presented will 
go to the fraternity having the 
[Continued on page 7]
Robert W. Johnson 
New Tartan Editor
Sororitiest Citcom to Present 
Ten-Minute Variety Sketches
Feature to Take Place Saturday of Carnival; 
Winner Receives Cup at Parade of Champions
Carnegie Tech sororities will 
add a new feature to the Spring 
Carnival weekend when they pre­
sent Varsity Varieties in the Lit­
tle Theater on Saturday, May 15, 
at 1:30 p. m.The seven sororities and Cit­
com Clan will each put on ten 
minute skits with a large combo 
playing between the acts and ac­
companying the skits.The winner will receive a cup 
at the Parade of Champions. The 
points to be considered in judg-
FAC To Back Seven Candidates; 
*Ten Not Desired, ’ Crago States
I’AC candidates prepare election plans in conference with chair­
man Robert Crago. Left to right: front row—Gerald Meyers, Robert 
Crago, George Zenk, and John Fockler; back row John Engle, 
Richard Deckmann, Arbon Lang, and Bruce Barrow.
Moses To Be Business Manager; 
Epstein, J. Johnson Also Promoted
Robert W. Johnson has been elected editor of the 1948-
1949 Carnegie Tartan.
Said Johnson after his unanimous election at the Tuesday, 
April 27 meeting of the Editorial board: “I feel very deeply 
my Vesponsibility to the Tartan staff and to the student body 
as a whole, and I intend to exert every effort to give Carnegie
?Tech a good newspaper.”
A junior in the department of 
management engineering, Johnson 
served this year as Chief Copy 
Editor of the Tartan. He is a 
member of Delta Tau Delta frater­
nity, the Student-Faculty Liaison 
committee, and Pi Delta Epsilon.
Samuel Moses, chemical engi­
neering junior and member of Tau 
Delta Phi, is the new business 
manager. A former basketball 
tem member, Moses is also in Pi 
Delta Epsilon.
Promoted from his present po­
sition of News Editor, Burton Ep­
stein of Beta Sigrrta Rho was elect- 
ted associate editor. Jay Johnson 
of Delta Tau Delta was confirmed 
in his present position of per­
sonnel manager. The position of 
managing editor, left temporarily 
vacant, will be filled by a future 
appointment.
Working with Epstein in the 
editorial department will be Ger­
ald Peck, re-elected to the position 
of features editor; Paul Offerman, 
succeeding senior William Schnit- 
gan, as sports editor; Thomas 
Murray, moving into editor John­
son’s position of chief copy editor; 
and Robert Kubiak, appointed as 
acting news editor.
Robert Cloud and Russell Kul- 
berg complete the production de­
partment as makeup editor and 
art editor respectively.
Edward Friedman, retiring bus­
iness manager, selected Arthur 
Zuck to replace senior metallurgist 
Martin S. Miller as advertising 
manager, and Otto Abraham’s po­
sition of circulation manager will 
be filled by Lewis Sternberg.
Positions other than those on 
the editorial board will be an­
nounced at a Tartan staff meeting 
to be held at 7:30 p. m., Friday, 
May 8, In the Tartan office.
Attending the editorial board 
meeting as a special guest of the 
Tartan was Negley Reed, chair­
man of the publications committee.
Robert Johnson
ing are entertainment value and 
production.
Chi Omegas, under the direc­
tion of George Klotzbaugh, are 
planning a musical of the old 
fashioned minstrel show variety. 
Included in the cast are: Corrinne 
DeChicchis, Helen Finley, Jean 
Anderson, Shirley Fitzmaurice, 
Wanda Schaeffer, Ellen Milie, 
Jeanne Miller, and Lucille Perlot.
The Tri-Delts are producing a 
variety type one-act comedy. Ger- [Continued on page 7]
With a roar befitting its bois- 
terious infancy, I’AC has slammed 
its collective hat into the May 28 
Council elections ellipse.
Robert Crago, electrical engi­
neering senior and redoubtable 
chairman of the Independent Ac­
tion Committee, announced that 
his party was running seven can­
didates.
When asked to elucidate, he re­
torted cheerily: “We have no de­
sire to see an all-independent 
Council, which is the reason that 
we couldn’t seriously propose 
backing ten men, the total number 
of vacancies in the College of En­
gineering.”
Jack Anderson, another of 
FAC’s inner circle, gave the big 
bass election drums another stur- 
[Continued on page 6]
Prof. Edmister 
Joins Chem. E. 
Department
The appointment of a new 
chemical engineering professor, 
Wayne C. Edmister, one of the 
leading men in the field of pe­
troleum engineering and chemis­
try, has been announced by Dr. 
Webster N. Jones, Director of the 
College of Engineering.
Professor Edmister brings with 
him to Carnegie the benefits of 
many years experience in indus­
try and in teaching, having work­
ed for a large number of indus­
trial firms and government agen­
cies and having taught at several 
colleges and universities since he 
graduated from Oklahoma A & M 
in 1932.

---------------------------------------------------

3THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 4, 1948
CamegitAEartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours EM. 7556, EM. 9424.
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays
•nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In­stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ..................................................... Hubert I. AaronsonBusiness Manager ........................................... Edward F. FriedmanAssociate Editor .............................................................Anthony ArrottPersonnel Manager .............................................. Jay H. Johnson' ---- ' /..........News Editor—Burton Epstein, Features Editor—Gerald E. Peck, Copy Editor—Robert W. Johnson, Sports Editor—Wil­liam Schnitgen, Makeup Editor—Robert Cloud, Art Editor— Russell F. Kulberg, Asst. Business Manager—Samuel Moses, 
Advertising Manager—Martin S. Miller, Circulation Manager —Otto Abraham.
Makeup Asst.—Frances Cody, Chief Reporter—William Johns, Bennard Perlman, Frederick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Al­phonse Toppeto.
Chief Sports Reporters—Paul Offerman, Chief PhotograiAier—William D. Benswanger.
Copy Staff—John Braun, Mary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, 
Analee Gelman, John Helmick, Magdalene Petrick, Features Staff—Robert Charpie, A. Starke Dischell, Martin DorfT, Carl Klahr.
Senior Reporter—F. R. Johnson.
Reporters—Bea Patterson, Ainslie Bricker, Angela Polis, Joseph Weinreich.
Cub Reporters—Marvin Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Ina Jean Cohen, Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, Camila Hawthorne, Bee Potter, Anita Tambellini, Rebecca Weisberg, Nancy Will.
Sports Staff—William Dorn, Warren Lithgow, Robin Molney, Secretary—Virginia Steinbach, Typists—Helen Brody, Betty Janie Baur.
Photography Staff—Richard Deininger, Ames Penfield. 
Advertising Staff—Shirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson.
Circulation Staff—Milton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave Steiner, Louis Sternberg, Herbert Stone.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER­
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, ’.¿07 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro­
vided fOL- in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo­ber 21, 1918. .___________
EditorialGood Man
I?or the first time in many years, the Tar­
tan Editorial Board elections went off without 
the angry snarls of high-powered fraternity 
politics.
The 1948-1949 Board, chosen primarily on 
ability and aptitude bases, should be one of 
the best in the long and spotty history of this 
newspaper. If the new editor, Mr. Robert W. 
Johnson, management junior, is any criterion 
of what is to come, next year’s Tartan should 
make the Technical look anxiously at the foun­
dations of its present preeminence on the CIT 
publications scene.
Mr. Johnson is one of the new group of 
activities leaders, i.e., he is a specialist in one 
major activity, with just a seasoning of “min­
ors” for balance. His work this year as chief 
copy editor of the Tartan has shown him to 
be a man interested in doing the most, not 
the minimum, with a job.
He has demonstrated the leadership, keen 
knowledge of and interest in all student affairs, 
and ability to work skillfully and well with all 
of his associates which should be invaluable 
in fulfilling the excellent promise which he 
has so far shown.
We are looking forward to reading Mr. 
Johnson’s interpretations of this puzzling and 
complex campus next year—from the deeply 
recessed security of the graduate metal-polish­
ing laboratories.
On Keys And Politics
Now that there is what approximates a 
two-party system on campus, we must endure 
its inevitable accompaniment—legislative po­
litics.
Issues will no longer be considered on their 
individual merits. Just as is the practice of our 
“elders and betters,” it will be strictly a case 
of making an impresión on the voters.
In Student Council tomorrow, both par­
ties will open their May election campaigns 
by giving that hapless football, the key sys­
tem, a couple of mighty kicks.
And since both groups will be kicking in 
the same directions—out—the contest will be­
come a race to obtain credit for the punt.
But we hope that before the entire key sys­
tem is junked, Council wil make provision for 
the deficit in people pounding typewriters in 
the Tartan office next year, and solicitors on 
other publications, and, in fact, for the per­
sonnel needed in the scores of little jobs on 
campus which aren’t too much fun, which
[Continued on page 10]
Right Face!
By Robert Charpie
College years should be pleasant years. They 
are the link between childhood and adult routine 
and, although encompassing many necessary en­
vironmental adjustments, they constitute the care­
free years in most of our lives. Is it any wonder 
that the much maligned perennial sophomore is 
a happy individual, depicted as living in his col­
lege years all his life?
Have you ever noticed just how few of these 
rah-rah alumni CIT has? No matter how many 
CIT grads you know, I venture to say that you 
have been struck by their general lack of enthusi­
asm for the school.
We take it for granted that a college provides 
the student with adequate scholastic background 
to fit him for his chosen work. In return for his 
service we generally expect the student to pro­
mote the welfare of his “alma mater.” We rarely, 
however, examine the deeper implications of this 
contract between man and college.
Education consists of the sum total of all ex­
perience. It should be recognized and treated as 
such. The college can have no control over what 
goes into the making of a man before he enters 
college, but once he enrolls, there takes place an 
interchange of obligations much deeper and much 
more important than just loyalty in return for 
scholastic preparation.
In developing the whole man, the college is 
obliged to furnish those elements of social activity 
which provide worthwhile experience. This indi­
cates that an adequate program of extra-curricular 
activities should not be the special privilege of cer­
tain students but is rather the educational right 
of every student.
I have said nothing thus far about the funds 
necessary to promote such a program. Even if a 
school considers such a plan too expensive in terms 
of its returns, this is a poor excuse for refusing 
to live up to the conditions of the educational con­
tract which it has underwritten.
Here at Carnegie Tech the portions of the Gen­
eral Fund which supports activities is administered 
by Student Council. Under existing conditions this 
is probably the best system, but the constant inter- 
organization budget bickering clearly demonstrates 
that the system has weaknesses.
Ideally, I think the school should assume re­
sponsibility for the financial administration of the 
activities program, so that Council wouldn’t have 
to worry about cutting the pie in such a way that 
every organization can keep running. Then I think 
that the budgets of those organizations which offer 
worthwhile activities should be made more liberal.
We could even dispense with token rewards if 
all of the parties concerned truly understood the 
significance of such a program and the mutual 
benefits it provided.
Perhaps in the long run we might even be able 
to give our alumni something to crow about, and 
by producing a bumper crop of perennial sopho­
mores, we would have a large number of free CIT 
advertisements at work.
i. e.Colleges Should 
Avoid Discrimination
By Gerald C. Meyers
It’s amazing how misconceptions of racial and 
religious superiority find their way into people’s 
thinking.
Just the other day three fellow engineers and 
myself were sitting in Skibo and our conversa­
tion drifted to the subject of Palestine and the 
Jewish problem. The point was made by the Gen-, 
tile student across the table from me that Jews 
are “too smart” to be outmaneuvered by “Ignor­
ant Arabs.”
The inference was made that Jews are inher­
ently bright, and I, recognizing the falsehood of 
such assumption, asked the fellow what had made 
him come to this conclusion. The retort was a 
startling, but an all too typical example of how 
insufficient factual data can mislead unsuspect­
ing individuals. “Just look at the Jews you know 
on campus,” he said with a great deal of assur­
ance, “they are all brilliant.”
Now it became apparent just what had taken 
place in this fellow’s mind. He had chosen to 
judge all Jews by the few with whom he had 
come in contact at college. His generalization was 
based upon what he had observed to be the case 
at an institution which, although it has no racial or 
religious quotas, accepts only applicants of higher 
intellectual ability.
Since the discussion was carried on, for the 
most part, by intelligent and fair minded students, 
the antagonist was soon informed of his falla­
cious reasoning. Then I began to wonder how many
[Continued on page 10]
3iJun ^
Moris a MOTION . V
1», I
On Stage
By Richard Drisko
The current Little Theatre pro­
duction, “Steps of Sand,” was 
written by Bert Pollock, a senior 
playwriting student. Despite tech­
nical defects and implausibility of 
the plot, the play offers moments 
of dramatic power and it is a 
promising start for a young auth­
or.
“Steps of Sand” is concerned’ 
primarily with the effect on a 
Jewish family of the mother’s loss 
of religious faith. It asserts (and 
this is the playwright’s logic, not 
our own) that faith, “a grip on the 
future,” is necessary to avoid in­
security in life, that is, treading 
the Steps of Sand.
It is unusual that a member of 
the older generation should be the 
one to lose faith, while the chil­
dren hold to theirs with the ten­
acity of several Jobs. We do not 
feel that the author has really 
succeeeded in making this plaus­
ible.
The plot is complicated by the 
son’s return from the war as a 
psychoneurotic, by a psychiatrist 
who conveniently comes home 
with him, and by the mother’s 
devouring affection for her son.
The most serious technical 
weakness of the play is the feeble, 
amateurish dialogue. Hackneyed 
at times—“I hate goodbys. They’re 
so final”—the dialogues often seem 
awkward, strained, and ineffec­
tual.
The first cast gave a consistetnly 
good performance; with the ex­
ception of a few roles, the second
and Ed von Halle
was much weaker.
The difficult role of the mother 
was admirably handled in both 
casts, though she seemed a little 
more convincing in the first.
The peculiarly touchy role of 
the neurotic son was given a re­
alistic, restrained interpretation in 
the first cast, and in the second 
cast a melodramatic, histrionic 
one. Each will probably have its 
admirers.
Annette, one of the daughters, 
was given a sensitive emotional 
interpretation and in the second 
cast a placid, unmoving, somewhat 
dead-pan one. In both casts, the 
other daughter Elaine and the 
son’s sweetheart Ferne were ade­
quate.
Sammy Mendel, Elaine’s sweet­
heart, was excellently portrayed. 
Felici Orlandi should be com­
mended for making Sammy a real 
person. The less exacting role oi 
Dr. Keller was well interpreted in 
both casts. The second cast play­
er, older in appearance and more 
leisurely in delivery, was more in 
keeping with the country doctor 
the author intended him to be. 
The father, played by William 
Putch ftoth nights; was warmly 
human.
In our opinion the most genu­
inely entertaining portion of the 
play was the delightful character­
ization of the nurse, played by 
Helen Finlay on the opening 
night, who brought down the 
house with her mannerisms and 
prattle.
WCIT Schedule-May 5-11
Dormitories 900—Fraternities 600
WED.THURS.FRI.MON.TUES.
7:30Pi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Kappa SigPi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Pi Kappa 
Alpha Show
Kappa Sig
8:15BetaBreakfastClub
Beta
BreakfastClub
BetaBreakfast
Club
BetaBreakfastClub
BetaBreakfastClub
9:15Sign OffSign OffSign OffSign OffSign Off
• '
7:00
SigmaNu
Show
Drama
Dept.
FashionsJazz
BandBall
7:15CarnegieTheater
ofthe
Air
RecordsSports
Parade
7:30
RecordsRecords
Strictly For GirlsVariety
Club
8:00N. Y. Times 
News
N. Y. Times 
NewsN. Y. Times 
News
N. Y. Times 
NewsN. Y. Times 
News
8:05Disc
Jockey
Capitol
PresentsMercury
Musicraft
andLondon
(FFRR)
VictorPresents
9:00Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru the Ages
Music Thru 
the Ages
Music Thru 
the AgesMusic Thru 
the Ages
10:00Sign OffSign OffSign OffSign OffSign Off

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY,, MAY 4, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Council Defeats FAC Attempt 
To Eliminate Weighted Ballot
Gustavson Introduces New Plan For 
Controlling Finances Of Activities
The defeat of the motion of I’AC’s Jack Anderson to establish 
a new method of vote counting for Student Council elections pro­
vided the main fireworks at the Council meeting in the Union on 
April 21.
Anderson’s proposal would have replaced the present system of 
weighted ballots by one in which there would be no weighting of 
votes.
Introducing a new method of bookkeeping for all student activi­
ties, Marvin Gustavson announced during the meeting of April 28 
that the new system “is not intended to replace the responsibili­
ty of each activity for keeping its own books. Rather it is to force 
the business manager of each ac-^- 
tivity to keep books and to clearly 
define his duty of maintaining the 
finances of the activity at the 
proper level.”
Gustavson’s report on behalf of 
the special committee on finances proposed that the Budget commit­
tee make a full and comprehensive 
report on the finances of all cam­
pus activities under its jurisdic­
tion as soon as possible, and that 
a similar report be submitted to 
Council henceforth at the begin­
ning of each semester.
In addition, the business man­
ager or person functioning in that 
capacity will have the responsi­
bility for signing all bills and re­
ceipts for his organization as these 
items pass through the office of 
the Dean of Men. Both the amount 
and disposition of signed bills and 
receipts are to be recorded in an 
incombrance book also to be kept 
in the Dean’s office.
Finally, at the end of each 
month but before the second Stu­
dent Council meeting of the new 
month, the Council Budget com­
mittee will compile an itemized 
report of receipts and expendi­
tures for each activity as recorded 
in the incumbrance book for the 
previous month. These reports 
will be checked with the business 
manager of each activity concern­
ing the final balance, and any
serious discrepancies will be in­
vestigated. An activity must satis­
factorily account for excessive 
deficits under penalty of suspen­
sion of finances by Council. A 
motion that these proposals be ac­
cepted and acted upon was pass­
ed.
In the midst of the conflict over 
Anderson’s proposed amendment 
to the Student Council constitu­
tion concerning vot counting, Gus­
tavson pointed out that, “We’re 
attempting to decide a bi-partisan 
issue by a vote of the people elect­
ed by the system in question.” The 
motion, which had first been made 
at the meeting of April 14 and 
tabled, aroused considerable de­
bate before it was ultimately de­
feated.
Jack Seward suggested that an 
official committee be set up to in­
vestigate the situation, and Dale 
Wright moved to set up a bi-par- 
partisan committee to consider the 
problem. After, the passage of this 
motion President Ulrich announc­
ed that he would appoint the com­
mittee at the meeting of April 28.
The committee, as ultimately 
formed, consists of Dale Wringht, 
chairman, and John Anderson, 
Robert Fulton, and Richard Shaf­
fer. A non-Council member, Ar- 
bon Lang, was also appointed to 
the committee.
Reporting to Council on April
Pollock’s Original Play 
Finishes Run On May 7
Work By Senior Drama Student Is Based 
On Modern Religious Conflicts, Intolerance
The drama “Steps of Sand,” written by Bert Pollock, a senior 
drama student, opened in the Little Theatre on April 29 and will 
continue to run until May 7. It is a three act play based on the
religious conflicts and intolerance of modern times.
Henry F. Boettcher, head of the drama department, is the di­
rector and Bunny Gurgwin is the set designer. Assistant to the di­
rector is Frederick Rein and the stage manager is Roger Ross. The 
setting is quite unique in that a^ 
more modern, progressive point of 
view was used with the set-pieces 
moved far down front, onto the 
apron of the stage. This method 
also improves the sight-lines of 
the Little Theatre.
Rose Schulman and Barbara 
Marsh play the lead part of Mrs.
Rothman. Elaine Rothman. her 
daughter, is played by Helen Leer- 
berg and Judy Lambert. The roles 
of Annette and Melvin Rothman 
are portrayed by Phyllis A. Love 
and Katherine Thompson, and 
George Fieldman and William Oli­
ver respectively.
William Putch, whose original 
play will be the next production in 
the Little Theatre, and Joseph 
Beruk take the part of Mr. Roth­
man. Other members of the cast 
include: Paul Storey, Robert
Nathe, Iris Rose, Gaye Jordan,
Helen Finlay, Betty Abelson, and 
Felice Orlandi.
Bert Pollock first entered Car­
negie Tech’s department of drama 
on a scholarship in 1941. The fol­
lowing year he enlisted in the 
Army Air Corps and then served 
three and one-half years as a ra­
dio operator on a B-17. Between 
missions he directed two Army 
musical shows in England. After 
being shot down he was interned in Switzerland and spent six
months there helping twenty-six 
internees to escape. Finally, he 
himself managed to escape into 
American-held southern France. 
Pollock was released on October, 
1945 just short of graduating from 
Aviation School as a B-29 engi­
neer. The following morning he 
started back toward CIT.
“I feel that for the greater part 
it is a social drama concerning a 
universal problem that is time­
less,” said Pollock in regard to his 
play which was started during 
October, 1947 as part of a play- 
writing assignment. However, 
while the play has been in re­
hearsal for the past six weeks, 
continual rewriting and revision 
jobs have arisen. There was “no 
hampering of my talents by the 
director, actors, or anyone con­
nected with the drama depart­
ment,” Pollock added.Pollock, whose main interest is 
play writing, has enjoyed acting in 
and directing plays because he 
feels that “a writer who has also 
acted knows what to expect from 
actors in his show.” Pollock con­
cluded, “I really appreciate the 
opportunity to see my show on 
stage—the opportunity of a life­
time.”After graduation he intends to 
write for radio with an eye to the television field.
21 as chairman of the special com­
mittee established to draft a new 
Tartan constitution, Negley Reed 
proposed that the new consitution 
be adopted and that an election of 
next year’s Tartan editorial board 
be held on April 27. He enumerat­
ed the names and positions of 
those members who would be elig­
ible to vote in the election. His 
proposals were accepted by Coun­cil. The following week, at the 
meeting of April 28, Reed submit­
ted the names of the newly elect­
ed Tartan editorial board mem­
bers for next year, which were approved.
The motion was made during 
[Continued on page 10]
Seward Asks Cut In 
Student Council Size
Skibo Prices Topic 
Of SCC JJebate
Committee Calls For Drastic 
Changes In Skibo Organization
Skibo food prices and a student-prepared report on how 
to reduce these prices made the Wednesday, April 28 Student 
Conference committee meeting one of the warmest to date.
The report on Skibo, one result of a recent joint dinner 
meeting of the Conference committee and Jerome Bell and 
Jack Johnson of the Student Council Food Service committee, 
was presented to Dr. Doherty at the beginning of the meeting.
Based on the premise that Skibo prices are now sufficiently 
high to be instrumental in forcing students to leave the school 
for financial reasons, and causing many students to exist on
*an inadequate diet, the report call­
ed for a “drastic revanmping of
Also Asks Quorum Requirement Cut; 
Aimed At More Efficiency, Less ‘Deadwood’
Student Council representation*--------------------------------------------
changed to allowshould be cnanged to allow one 
member for every 150 students, 
and the quoroum requirement 
should be cut from three-fourth 
to two-thirds,” recommended Stu­
dent Council elections chairman 
Jack Seward last week.
“I am particularly interested in 
this issue now because Council 
has just found itself,” Seward 
continued. “Council is doing more 
than just sitting down and passing 
trivialities. It has taken up inves­
tigations such as Skibo, keys, pub­
lications — actual investigations 
which demand efficiency and re­
sults. Old legislation is being re­
vised extensively and the consti­
tution is being rewritten.” 
Presenting as evidence that fact 
that the same six or seven peo­
ple, at most a dozen, lead the dis­
cussion on every issue, Seward de­
clared that, “There is too much 
deadwood on Council. The inac­tivity of most of the Council mem­
bers can be proved by looking at 
the committees which have been 
appointed. The past three rpesi- 
dents, Garner, Marshall, and Ul­
rich, have been forced to appoint 
and re-appoint a limited number 
of people, the leaders of all fac­
tions, because of the inactivity 
and undependability of a large 
portion of Council.”
Seward claimed that reducing 
the number of members would 
reduce more than proportionately 
the amount of “deadwood,” on 
Council. “When this cut is made,” 
he said, “more of the positions will
Jack Seward
be filled by better men, lor the 
competition will be keener, and 
personality and actual interest 
will be required for election.”
To explain his recommendation 
that the present quoroum require­
ment should be changed in order 
to make it simpler for Council to 
conduct the business at hand, 
Seward pointed out the numerous 
meetings at which, for lack of a 
quorum, motions could not be 
officially passed. Changing the 
quorum from three-fourths to two- 
thirds would permit Council to 
operate with greater efficiency, 
Seward declared.
the food serving system in Skibo.” 
The reconstruction of Skibo into 
a single serving line building 
which would offer plain and 
standard but nutritionally ade­
quate meals at a price roughly 
half of that now charged was the 
essence of the report.
Individual items in the standard 
meals to be made available at 
slightly above pro rata price, the 
usual liquids and limited varieties 
of sandwiches were also suggested.
President Doherty indicated in­
terest in these portions of the re­
port, asking to see them in writ­
ten form, but suggestions that 
“Skibo be removed from the pres­
ent pooled accounting set-up” and 
that the proposed changes be made 
“before any further non-critical 
academic expansion is attempted'* 
were sharply rejected.
The President indicated a desire 
to progress to other subjects, but 
John Hartman, president of Dor­
mitory Council, noted:
“There is a feeling in the dor­
mitories that $2.50 a day is too 
much to pay to eat.”
The president agreed.
George Bickerstaff, president of 
Interfraternity council, pointed out 
that “three meals, with more ex­
pensive service and better quality, 
cost only $1.45 a day at my fra­
ternity house.”
And Joan Ollett. president of 
Women’s Dormitory council, 
brought home economics to bear 
on specific prices of certain Skibo 
items.
She spoke of 25 and 35 cent 
salads with very little salad and 
wondered how this could be ra- 
[Continued on page 10],
Printing Graduates, Prosperous Gentlemen All, 
Gather For Technical Discussions And Reunion
The prosperous looking gentle­
men seen streaming in and out of 
Industries hall last week were not 
new faculty, nor were they young 
hopefuls taking entrance exams— 
they were printing alumni, meet­
ing for the first time since 1941 
to exchange technical knowledge 
and to renew old acquaintances.
The printers are organized as 
are the alumni of no other Car­
negie department—they are the 
only graduates who have their 
own alumni association with an­
nual reunions. The association was 
formed in 1938 to bring the print­
ers closer together, and in 1939 the 
Advisory Council on Graphic Art 
Education, an important group 
which was concenived at the 1938 
reunion, began to meet with the 
alumni.Represented on the Advisory 
Council are eighteen national and 
international organizations in the 
graphic arts fields as well as Car­
negie Teck and other educational 
institutions. It acts in a liaison and 
advisory capacity to assist the 
printing department and to sup­
port graphic arts education in all 
its broad aspects.
By Robert Atkins
During the meeting at the Uni­
versity club on Thursday, April 
29 a committee was appointed to 
set policies and to determine 
methods which can be employed 
to broaden graphic arts education 
in all fields — from the explora­
tory junior high school courses to 
the college level programs. The 
representatives at the Advisory 
Council meeting all pledged the 
suport of their respective organ­
izations to the printing depart­
ment.
The reunion was an overall suc­
cess, but particularly successful 
and of great significance were the 
six technical sessions which ful­
filled the functions of permitting 
an exchange of ideas among the 
alumni and of giving the students 
the benefit of the practical ex­
perience of the alumni.
Many of the printers have 
brought specific problems to these 
sessions, where they have been 
given the key to the solution by 
some other alumnus. Such a free 
interchange of information is 
characteristic of the group, and 
is one of the reasons for the solid­
arity so evident among printing 
department alumni.
Celevrating its twenty-fifth an­
niversary was the class of 1923, 
which had two of its members on 
hand — Alexander Dittler of At­
lanta, Ga., and K. W. inlay of 
Hartford, Conn. The other living 
members of the class, N. M. Allen 
and . R. Treschell, were unable to 
attend.
On the panel discussing ac­
counting, cost control, and esti­
mating were two of last year’s 
graduates. Don Anderson of Dit­
tler Bros., Inc., Atlanta, and Tom 
Boyd of W. G. Johnston Co., of 
Pittsburgh performed well on the 
platform and showed no signs of 
wear after a year in the ‘outside 
world.’ Both claimed to have put 
in a year with no dull moments— 
a remark typical of printers — 
typical of men who are working 
in an industry where two jobs 
exactly alike are few and far be­
tween.
The corridors of Industries hall 
will again be clogged with print­
ers next year when the ink- 
smeared gather once more to dis­
cuss the year’s technical advances.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 4, 1948
Fred Johnson Awarded Trophy 
For Publications Achievement
Guyol, Klein, Hoffman Receive Honorable 
Mention At Pi Delta Epsilon Banquet
Fred R. Johnson, architecture sophomore and senior reporter on 
the Tartan, was awarded the Pi Delta Epsilon trophy for “most 
outstanding achievement in a non-executive capacity on a campus 
publication” for his stories on Student Council at the journalistic 
honorary’s annual publications banquet, held Tuesday evening, 
April 20, in the Union.
Three honorable mentions were awarded, going to Jack Guyol, 
chemistry senior, for his “Making the Rounds” column which ap­
pears monthly in the Scottie, Lewis Klein, architecture sub-senior, 
for photographs taken for the Scottie and other publications, and 
Everett Hoffman, painting and design senior, for his article on “In­
dustrial Design” which was pub-^-------------------------------------------------
lished in a recent issue of the Car­
negie Technical.
Lee Wiley, awards chairman of 
Pi Delta Epsilon, explained that 
the honorary planned to make the 
trophy award an annual event in
Budgets Notice
Financial or business mana­
gers of all organizations oper­
ating under Student Council 
jurisdiction must present their 
budgets for next year at the 
office of the Dean of Men no 
later than May 12. Names of 
both the business manager and 
assistant business manager ( or 
persons functioning in these ca­
pacities) should be attached to 
the budget. All business man­
agers are requested to read the 
portion of the Student Council 
report (elsewhere in this issue) 
concerning the new bookkeep­
ing system.
order to give recognition to staff 
workers in the various publica­
tion who had not yet achieved 
top positions on their respective 
publications but who had made 
significant contributions through 
work of outstanding merit.
After the banquet, PiDE pres­
ident Negley Reed introduced the 
evening’s toastmaster, Walter 
Burns. Mr. Burns told an assort­
ment of mellow jokes, reminisced 
about football glories and minu- 
tae, and then introduced Mr. Bert 
Popowski, printing department 
instructor.
Mr. Popowski gave advice to 
writers attempting to find their 
way into print for the first time, 
drawing liberally from his own 
experience both as a popular 
writer for numerous national 
magazines and as a former asso­
ciate editor of Look.
Grad Reveals 
Typical Future 
For Engineers
It’s sometimes comforting to feel 
that the immediate tomorrows are 
not the big question marks that 
the daily news paints them to be. 
With a view to learning what the 
engineering student can expect, 
within the scope of his own little 
adventure, in the days and months 
following graduation, we have 
written to the man chosen as the 
typical, the average Carnegie 
Tech graduate of the last five 
years.
Frederick C. Corey enrolled at 
Carnegie in the fall of 1940. He 
came to CIT from West Virginia, 
one of five children. Fred’s broth­
er—he had three sisters too— at­
tended Carnegie and was gradu­
ated in 1945 with a mechanical 
engineering degree.
Fred was himself graduated in 
February, 1947 with a degree in 
electrical engineering. Like many 
others, he took Carnegie in two 
doses, ante- and post-war. After 
completing his third year he was 
called to active duty in the Army 
Signal Corps in May of 1943. In 
October of 1946, fresh from New 
Calendonia and the Philippines, 
Fred was back for the final sprint.
Upon graduation, Fred went to 
work in the electrical engineering 
laboratory of the Hoover Com­
pany in North Canton, Ohio. Elev­
en months later, he was promoted 
to Assistant Staff Engineer in the 
production co-ordination group of 
the Engineering departments.
At present Fred is doing cost 
analysis and development work.
While at CIT, Fred was a mem­
ber of Theta Xi fraternity. Serv-
Editors of Form, Cano, Scottie 
Oppose Merger of Publications
Margaret Morrison Tea Room 
Attracts Early Reservations
By Anita Mortimer
May I make a recommendation for one pleasant and profitable 
way to spend a Thursday lunch period? Take your lunch at the Mar­
garet Morrison Tea Room, room 313.
Be forewarned, though! It is necessary to make a reservation 
through Mrs. Robinson in the MMCC Director’s office or through 
the dining room manager. Reservations are open to students and to 
faculty members and friends and the capacity is about seventy.
You will find real tea room at-4; 
mosphere built into the cement 
and plaster of MMCC. The neat 
array of place napkins and spark­
ling silver on polished wooden ta­
bles is refreshing. And complete 
relaxation effuses from the warm 
designs of wallpaper and rug.
Fifteen senior Foods & Nutri­
tion girls in the home economics 
department takes the responsibil­
ity of operating the Tea Room as 
part of their quantity cookery and 
institutional administration train­
ing. Operate it they do, and effi­
ciently, rotating the jobs of cook 
assistant cook, baker, roll baker, 
salad girls, dish-washer, dining 
room manager, head waitress, and 
so on.
The waitresses will be busy 
keeping your basket of hot rolls 
and coffee cup filled, but if you 
check into the kitchen you’ll find 
all the rest of them wearing 
starched white aprons and a 
gamut of expressions from knotted 
eyebrow concern to radiant ela­
tion.
Of course, Mrs. Ruth Mashall, 
the supervising instructor, is there 
to lend a hand and keep the edges 
polished!Eight weeks of the year the din­
ing room is operated as cafeteria 
service; the remainder as table 
service. Once during the year, the 
girls serve a dinner instead of a 
luncheon. The occasion is espe­
cially for parents, but all are wel­
come so long as the reservations 
last.
What about the food? From ap­
petizer to dessert it keeps the res­
ervation list filled early.
David Pettigrew
Fred’s comments on his partic­
ipation in extra-curricular activ­
ities indicate that they were all 
time well spent, invaluable in their 
experience of “learning to know 
people and get along with them.” 
Of the education he received at 
CIT, Fred is enthusiastic. “Each 
course is contributive because 
each is basic.” He adds that a 
degree in management engineer­
ing in conjunction with a techni­
cal degree is a desirable thing. 
Considering the position of re­
sponsibility he has gained in this 
short year since graduation, the 
advice rings soundly even if out 
of the question for most of us.
Dottie Stanff, a native Pitts­
burgher and a Maggie Murph girl 
has been Mrs. Corey since Sep-
tember, 1946. Fred and Dottie 
ing a term as Social Chairman, he I were a familiar couple on cam- 
was considered the best ping-pong pus in those days. Established 
player of his time and was ac- now in Canton, they are busily 
tive in all intramural sports. | being domestic. Fred is active in 
A member of the YMCA Cabi- j the Canton branch of the AIEE 
net, Fred served also as advertis- and the Hoover Engineers club, 
ing manager of the Technical and He and Dottie have several CIT 
manager of the varsity rifle team, alumni friends in the Canton area, 
He was a member of Eta Kappa and “hope to see John Elliott, 
Nu, the electrical engineering | Alumni Secretary, come up here 
honorary.I soon and help us organize a clan.’
Merger of Form, Cano, and 
Scottie into one publication, for 
financial reasons, was suggested at 
a special meeting of all interested 
persons called by Dean Dicken­
son last Monday. All members 
present from the three publica­
tions were violently opposed to 
the idea on the basis that each 
had bettered its financial status 
since the beginning of the year.
Lee Wiley, editor of the Scottie 
stated, “We feel that the Scottie 
has now recovered from its war­
time footing, and the next year 
will see a magazine of pre-war 
quality and of sound financial or­
ganization. This statement takes 
into consideration the increase of 
printing rates of next year.”
Even though the CIT printing 
department will not print Cano 
and Form next year, Marvin Gus- 
tavson, editor of Cano, maintained, 
“For obvious reasons such a meas-
SAM Discusses 
Wage Incentive
The topic, “Management and 
Labor Look at Wage Incentives,” 
will be discussed at an evening 
conference sponsored by the Car­
negie Tech chapter of the Society 
for the Advancement of Manage­
ment on Thursday, May 6 at 8:00 
p. m. Professor W. W. Cooper of 
the department of economics will 
be chairman of the conference, 
which is to be held at the Cham­
ber of Commerce building audi­
torium located at Seventh avenue 
and Smithfield street.
On the side of labor, Mr. Fran­
cis C. Shane, international repre­
sentative of the CIO United Steel 
Workers of America, will speak 
on “Labor Attitude Toward Wage 
Incentives,” and Mr. J. P. Busar- 
ello, director of district five of the 
United Mine Workers of America, 
will deliver an address on “Wage 
Incentives and the Workers.”
On the side of management, Mr. 
J. H. Elkus, manager of the meth­
ods and procedures department 
of the Blaw-Knox Company, will 
speak on “The Future of Wage 
Incentives,” and Mr. Frank San­
ford, supervising industrial en­
gineer of the National Supply 
company, will talk on “Produc­
tion and Wage Incentives.”Tickets may be purchased at 
the door at 75 cents per person.
Pettigrew9 ODK Aid
In Carnival Planning
With the approach of Spring Carnival, Omicron Delta Kappa, 
senior men’s activities honorary, is fulfilling one of its major ac­
tivities.
ODK has been given the responsibility of seeing that Spring Car­
nival is properly planned and put in operation. Each year it ap­
points a general committee chairman for Carnival and calls for par­
ticular committee heads for preparations such. as the decorations
"?and band. These latter men need 
not be members of ODK. The 
committee thus formed is given 
free reign on the aqfual planning 
but major points are brought back 
to ODK, which acts as the super­visor.
David Pettigrew, recently elect­
ed president of ODK, expresses 
the wishes of ODK to the Carni- 
cal committee, which is responsi­
ble for the coordination of Car­
nival preparations. Pettigrew, who 
is a senior in the department of 
metallurgical engineering, is also 
a member of Pi Delta Epsilon and 
Theta Tau.
Pettigrew has been a student at 
Carnegie since 1937, but attend­
ed night school until the war. 
While in night school he served 
two years as president of the 
Evening Student Council and was 
a member of the Plaid staff. In 
addition, he was awarded the 
Evening School’s Student Council 
activities scholarship.
During his 29 months of war 
service he worked his way from 
private to first lieutenant in the 
signal corps. Fourteen months of 
his army career were spent in the 
Philippines.
Returning to CIT after his dis­
charge, Pettigrew entered the day 
school to finish his college career. 
His work on Spring Carnival con­
cludes nine years of active extra­
curricular participation, interrupt­
ed only by his army service.
ODK, the organization which he 
heads, has as its purpose the rec­
ognition of men who have attain­
ed a high standard of excellence 
in college activities. It brings to­
gether the most representative men 
in all phases of college life, as 
well as members of the faculty 
and student body, on a basis of 
mutual interest and understand­
ing.
Originally established at Car­
negie Tech in 1942, ODK was re­
organized after the war in 1945. 
Membership, which is limited to 
male students in any of the col­
leges, is based on high scholastic 
standing and participation in ex­
tracurricular activities. New mem­
bers are called each year during 
Spring Carnival frOm among sec­
ond semester juniors on the basis 
of these requirements.
Those men who will represent 
ODK on campus next year have 
already been selected by the pres­
ent membership. These ten new 
members will be called into the 
honorary during the Call Day 
ceremonies on Friday, May 14. 
Their selection was based in part 
on a personal interview of the 
candidates by ODK.Next year ODK plans to pub­
lish a guide book for social chair­
men. This booklet, which will out­
line the duties of a social chair­
man, will be distributed to every 
organization on campus.
ure is completely impossible.” In 
regard to his own magazine’s po­
sition, he said “Cano certainly will 
continue to get along under tis 
existing arrangement with the 
Technical and improve as it ma­
tures.”
Lee Wiley adds, “The editors 
and business managers of Form, 
Cano, and Scottie feel that each 
of the magazines has a definite 
field of appeal. Due to the differ­
ences in the publications, such a 
merger is not plausible.”
Three Students 
Win Radio Quiz
Three lucky winners of the Ra­
dio Quiz program sponsored by 
Carnegie Tech, the Pittsburgh 
Press, and the Buhl Planetarium, 
are holders of scholarships to the 
CIT College of Engineering and 
Science.
After 6 weeks of eliminations, 
George Lang of Perry high school, 
Sam Wazniak of Punxsutawney 
high, and Joseph McDonald of 
North Catholic high emerged the 
victors.
The contest is held every year 
and is open to high school stu­
dents in the surrounding counties. 
The first Radio Quiz winner was 
Miss Julia Randall. She was the 
first woman to graduate from the 
College of Engineering and Sci­
ence and is now a member of the 
faculty in the physics department.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
---------------------H---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion .................................................................... 8
Morning Prayer and Sermon .......................................... 11
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Service on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish 
House, followed by Canterbury Club Meeting, 
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:30—1:30)
----------------------M---------------------
a. m. 
a. m.
All Students Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY,, MAY 4, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTANft
Coddington Elected 
WCIT Station Head
Hall Chosen As Business Manager 
Royse R^-Elected Chief Engineer
Robert Coddington, senior physicist and former chief announcer 
for WCIT, has been elected Station Manager of Carnegie Tech’s 
campus station for next year. In addition to being a member of 
the WCIT staff since its formation, Coddington has been working 
on Pittsburgh station WPIT as an engineer and announcer.
Thomas Hall was elected at the4------------------------------------------------
same time to the post of business 
manager and David Royse was 
re-elected chief engineer.
The newly elected chief an­
nouncer is Edward Head, and the 
evening progra mmanager is How­
ard Bach, who is also in charge 
of the weekly Sigma Nu show. 
Clark Sloan will continue as 
morning program manager and 
Jay Atman will be the station 
representative to the Intercolegi- 
ate Broadcasting system. Herbert 
Stone was elected chief of engi­
neering personnel.
Other elections were Sema 
Moskovitz, chief secretary; Phil 
Ciotti, publicity manager; and Da­
vid Steiner, advertising manager.
As a means of introducing the 
Spring Carnival bands to the stu­
dent body, Ivan Faigen, retiring 
station manager, has announced 
that one hour of recorded music 
featuring the bands of Skitch Hen­
derson and Elliott Lawrence will be presented over WCIT on 
Thursday, May 6, from 8:00 to 
9:00 p. m.
A new unit, consisting of two 
new turnables with an accom­
panying switching system which 
will make possible the broadcast 
of programs from outside the con­
fines of the present studios in the 
Fine Arts building, will soon be 
put into operation. This unit will 
greatly increase the variety of 
programs which the station will 
be able to produce, and, it is hop-
ed, increase the enjoyment of lis­
teners to the station.
Plans for next fall include the 
placement of speakers in the Grill 
so that regular programs may be heard by the patrons there. Ten­
tatively planned, pending a budget 
allowance, is the installation next 
fall of a transmitter in Morewood Gardens.
Pi Tau Sigma 
Initiates 22
Pi Tau Sigma, the Mechanical 
Engineering honorary, held its 
spring initiation banquet on 
Thursday, April 29, at the Church 
of the Redeemer on Forbes Street. 
Professor Allan H. Blaisdell was 
toastmaster.
Formal initiation took place on 
the same day at 5:00 p. m. in Car­
negie Union with the following 
men being accepted into the hon­
orary: Robert E. Carr, Lynford
W. Gilbert, Howard D. Ege, Wil­
liam Fedanko, Henry Jones, Aseno 
DePaul, Milton Haber, Glenn 
Haught, Sidney Kaufman, Wesley 
Frick, Lawrence Montgomery, Al­
va Nedley, David Nelson, William 
Meyers, John Rose, Almont Walsh, 
Alfred Williamson, Walter Sim­
mons, Harry Young, Charles Pao- 
lino, Eugene Recchion, and Tom 
Powers.
Precision-Built,
Top-Quality
Writing
Instruments
Made by Fineline Division,
W. A. Sheaffer Pen Company, 
World’s Largest Manufacturer of 
Quality Writing Instruments
No need to wait—we’ve got 'em 
now! ... colorful, dependable, 
smooth-writing fountain pens or ball 
points. Come on in and see, try, 
inspect. You’ll surely want at least 
•ne of each at our low pricel
°u*f0;
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 Fifth Avenue
(Past Corner Bouquet)
Math Honorary 
Calls Members
Pi Mu Epsilon, mathematics 
honorary, held an initiation and 
banquet in the faculty dining 
room on Friday, April 30. Profes­
sor Synge, who recently resign-, 
ed as head of the department, lec­
tured on “The Philosophy of 
Mathematics.”
Faculty members Benjamin Ep­
stein, Norman McLachlan, Mil­
ton Peach, Louis Sacks, and Ed­
ward Schatz were initiated.
Graduate s t u d e n ts admitted 
were Pierre Aigrain, Allan Ben­
nett, Raoul Bott, Bernard Cohen, 
Horatio Crooks, Claude Dugas, 
Raymond Ely, Richard Eschen- 
bach, Howard Etzel, Martyn Foss, 
Joseph Franz, Simeon Friedbarg, 
Gerald Gardner, Charles Harris, 
David Holmes, Murray Klamkin, 
Albert Lasday, Leon Levy, Ernest 
Lowenstein, Dillion Mapother, 
Norman Parker, Monroe Sadled, Albert Schindler, Louis Synk, 
Phillips Whidden, and Joseph Za- wacki.
Senior students initiated were 
Anthony Arrott, William Brown, 
George Guthrie, Lawrence John­
son, Kenneth Kramer, William 
Meyers, James Montague, Howard 
Recht, Howard Richings, George
Paul Schucker
Royer, George Kahl. George Min­
ton, Paul Rappaport, William 
Vaugh.
Junior students George Baldwin, 
Richard Drisko, William Hasek, 
Donald Koenig, David Lide, Paul 
Luckey, William McVeigh, and 
Walter Smith were initiated.
The Book' Helps Sell S n S 
Show, ‘The Lady’s At Work?
Scotch and Soda Club has a book to end all books. It is 30 inches 
long, 20 inches high, and 1 inches thick. Its purpose is to sell 
Scotch and Soda club’s “The Lady’s at Work” to newspapermen, 
radiomen, businessmen and anyone else who takes the time to turn 
through its 24 pages.
The book is the brainchild of Scotch and Soda president Dave 
Crantz. Last year when Crantz was tramping the streets of Pitts­
burgh trying to revive interest in \ 
the club after its five year war­
time inactivity, he would approach 
a newspaper or radio executive 
and say “I’m from Scotch and
Soda club.” Ana they would look 
back as if to say “so what.”
This year Crantz decided that 
he would produce an attractive 
brochure and say “so this” and 
proceed with the written word, 
photographs, art work, and clip­
pings to convince all comers that 
Scotch and Soda club is an effi­
cient, well-run organization with 
lots of talent and girls and that 
“The Lady’s at Work” is a terrific 
show.
Enlisting the skills of Dave 
Clark, designer, illustrator, pho­
tographer, letterer, and bookbind­
er, Crantz with the advice of as­
sistant business manager George 
Sherman laid out a book which 
tells what, where, and when is 
“The Lady’s at Work,” who are 
the people behind the show with 
their pictures and past experience, 
what is the theme of the musical, 
and why it is different from other 
college productions.
The personalities behind the 
show which the book presents are 
author George Wood, singing leads 
Gloria Bergman and Eddie Ed­
monds, musical director Dick 
Hoch, and director Lawrence Car- 
ra.
Several pages show the set de­
signs of Jim Trittipo and others 
display the costumes of designer 
A1 Lehman. The book says “Scotch 
and Soda has a New Show and a 
New Look” and goes on to show 
Lehman’s new look for the farm 
as well as for the city.
Also included are clippings and 
pictures of Scotch and Soda in 
the past. Last year’s spread in the 
Pittsburgh Press Roto, a “Vari-
Arcliitecture Dept. 
To Hold Dinner
The annual architecture depart­
ment dinner will be held at the 
University club on May 25.
Marcel Breu.er, noted architect 
recently associated with Walter 
Gropius, will be the guest speaker.
4Put Treasurers In Charge 
Of FinancesSays Schucker
Budget Chairman Believes Accounting Errors 
Are Due To Negligence or Inexperience
“I firmly believe that it is the 
job of the treasurer of each or­
ganization rather than of Student 
Council or the Comptroller’s office 
to know where it stands finan­
cially,” stated budget chairman 
Paul Schucker of Student Council 
in commenting on the investiga­
tion of activities’ finances.
“After speaking to the treasur­
ers of most of the large organ­
izations on campus, I have come 
to the conclusion that a large 
number of the errors in their 
books are the result of their own 
negligence or inexperience. This 
is caused by the change in their 
business staffs several times a 
year.”
Informal Budgets Defended
Schucker pointed out that it is 
true that many organizations ac­
tually do not keep a set of formal 
books, but because their budgets 
are so small an informal account 
is sufficient. As an example, he 
noted that there are a number of 
activities on campus with a total 
of less than $25 passing through 
their hands annually.
“I am confident that the larger 
organizations are keeping good 
sets of books, and while occa­
sionally there is an error, the 
statement of their accounts pub­
lished three times yearly by the 
Comptroller should serve to cor­
rect these errors.”
“Good Job Being Done”Considering this school and the 
factors involved, Schucker stated, 
“I believe a good job is being 
done. A school which has many 
more organizations can assess each 
one a small percent of its budget 
to hire an accountant to keep the 
books. Because of the small num­
ber of organizations and the 
small size of the total budget, that 
system is impossible here.”
He expressed the belief that It 
is not feasible to turn the books 
over to Council because “it is a 
full time job. I don’t think any­
one here can afford to spend six 
hours a day properly keeping the 
books for every organization.
“Neither the Comptroller’s of­
fice nor the Dean’s office has suf­
ficient personnel to appoint some­
one to spend time on this job. 
During the war a member of the 
administration had the sole job 
of keeping duplicate bocks for the 
activities. Because of the tremen­
dous increase in activities this is 
now impossible — it is no longer 
a spare time job.”
Council To Quiz Activities
He revealed that in the near 
future each activity will be asked 
to submit to Council a statement 
of what accounting method it em­
ploys and also of its present finan­
cial standing.
“I hope that, beginning next 
fall, a method can be worked out 
whereby each business manager 
will submit a brief monthly re­
port to the budget chairman of 
Student Council giving an accur­
ate, up to the minute view of the 
condition of his organization. Thus 
there will be available for the in­
spection of interested parties a 
brief summary of the financial ac­
tivity of each organization.”
Schucker noted that, “although 
activities seem to want a fuller 
control of their own books, they 
admit, at the same time, their in­
ability to keep them by asking to 
have someone else, either Student 
Council, the Comptroller, or the 
Dean’s office, keep a duplicate ac­counting.
“I believe that the committee 
headed by Marvin Gustavson will 
be able to increase the efficiency 
of activity bookkeeping through 
several minor changes, but I do 
not believe that any large scale 
changes would be either possible 
or desirable.’*
ety” review for 1939, and Harold 
V. Cohen’s 1941 review are dis­
played along with pictures of last 
year’s “Rock ’n Riot.”
Near the end of the book, just 
as interest might begin to lag, ap­
pear the words “Why Different 
From Other College Shows.” The 
answer is found by turning the 
page where surrounding the 
phrase “Real Girls” are photo­
graphs—some “cheesecake,” some “glamour” — of Scotch and Soda 
club’s Judy Lambert, Gaye Jor­
dan, Emily Barnes, and Gretchen 
Schmertz.
The book has resulted in com­
plete coverage in the press and 
radio for Scotch and Soda club’s 
“The Lady’s at Work.”
Glee Clubs 
Give Concert
A combined concert of the 
Men’s and Women’s Glee clubs 
was presented on April 27 during 
the Chapel hour in the little The­
atre.
The Women’s Glee club, direct­
ed by Miss Carolyn Kennedy, sang 
“Ave Maria” by Kodaly, and the 
“Czech Dance Song.” These se­
lections were followed by “Chil­
dren of the Moon” and Sigmund Romberg’s “Will You Remember” 
sung by the women’s sextet. 
Estelle Berenfield, student di­
rector of the girl’s group, conduct­
ed the “Italian Street Song.” Their 
final selection was “Let All My 
Life Be Music.”
The book, as resulted in com- 
by Mr. William Schaefer, made 
its first appearance by singing 
“Marching Along on the High­
road” and “The Russian Collegi­ate Drinking Song.” Their well- 
known Highlander quartet then 
sang “Mrs. Winslow” and “Soph- 
omoric Philosophy.” The Men’s 
club, sang their final selections: 
“Ole Ark’s A^Moverin’ ” and 
“Steal Away.”
To conclude the concert, both 
clubs combined to sing “In These 
Delightful Pleasant Groves,” “Ho- 
la-li,” “Praise to the Lord,” and 
the Carnegie “Alma Mater.”

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 4, 1948
cated for this purpose during the 
present fiscal year. “The cost of 
keys,” announced Lang, “has gone up.”
Material on Richard W. Deck- 
mann, chemical engineering soph­
omore and commuter was next 
produced. Deckmann is interested 
in “Council representation of a 
democratic nature in which the 
groups are represented in propor­
tion to their voting strength, and 
not in proportion to the degree of 
organization to which the body 
attains.”
John K. Fockler, junior man­
agement and business manager of 
the Dorm Bagpiper, was reported 
to be “interested in what might 
be done to arouse the interest of 
the dormitory men in activities on campus.
“I would like to see Claymore 
Clan, the dormitory honorary, re­
vise it drastically.”
When asked to describe its 
methods of choosing so many 
candidates, Crago and Anderson 
explained:
“I’AC is at the present time 
trying to serve as a political out­
let for independent students. As 
such, the candidates were chosen 
in much the same manner as is 
done in a national or local elec­
tion.
“Some men approached us as to 
the possibility of obtaining I’AC 
backing while others were asked 
to run by I’AC. Each man whom 
we considered submitted a letter 
stating his views on campus pol­itics.
“After these letters had been 
carefully studied, the men were 
interviewed. Then the members 
of I’AC selected those candidates 
whom they felt would best rep­
In Oakland Parker "Si's" A re Available
-AT-S. BINSTOCK Jewelers, inc.
3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
ARROW CAN REALLY
FIT YOU TO A
For graduation choose larker 51 
...the world’s most wanted pen
• Success and Parker “51” just naturally go 
together. Leaders in every field — the world 
over—prefer this pen. No wonder seniors at 
top universities have again and again voted 
“51” the pen most'wanted for graduation.
The way the “51” will speak of your good 
taste — the way it will spark your thoughts 
and always show you at your best—these can 
mean so much in the years ahead.
So plan now to graduate to a Parker “51” 
— the pen that “writes dry with wet ink!” 
Try it at your Parker dealer’s. Get acquainted 
with its instant starting... its swift sure glide.
Choice of colors and custom points. Two 
sizes: regular and the new demi-size. The 
Parker Pen Company, Janesville,Wis., U.S.A., 
and Toronto, Canada.
Handsomely matched Parker "51” 
Pen and Pencil sets, $17SO and up
Indeed, yes!
Our punning may be poor, but our T shirts and 
basque shirts are well-nigh perfect for golf, tennis, 
and beach wear.
Fine, full-combed cotton T shirts from SI. Basque 
shirts in solid colors and stripes from $1.25.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIESm----------------------------------------------------------------------------------*?
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
PERFECT FOR EVERY GIFT OCCASION*
DAY • BIRTHDAYS • WEDDINGS • ANNIVERSARIES
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products, 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD’S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
VAC
[Continued from page 1] 
dy wallop with “for the first time 
that I know of, we are running a 
cross-section of all classes, in­
cluding two freshmen, two soph­
omores, and four juniors.
“We feel that with representa­
tion of this sort, a more truly rep­
resentative Council can be ob­
tained.”
Crago then test-fired some of 
I’AC’s bigger guns, all specially 
designed for the coming struggle.
“FAC is backing a change from 
the present preferential ballot. We 
don’t feel that you are voting'for 
one man whom you consider 10 
times as valuable as another . . . 
We are backing NSA ... I feel 
that the present key situation is 
ridiculous, and we hope to re-
resent the purposes of I’AC and 
the student body.”
The introductions complete, Cra­
go descended to the depths of 
business and unveiled the I’AC 
candidates, complete with quota­
tions, lists of activities, and per­
tinent facts on their vote-getting 
qualities.
Arbon C. Lang, freshman man­
agement and commuter, was the 
first to be introduced. Lang, al­
ready becoming known as one of 
the most eager of the new poli­
ticians, had apparently done some 
significant research, the results 
of which Crago happened to have 
available.
Exactly $639.03 was spent on 
keys in 1946-1947, not counting 
those given to Scotch ana Soda 
and professional honoraries.
And over $745 has been allo-
activated. Its prime purpose in the 
past was to get the new dorm 
men interested in campus activ­
ities.”
The following four point pro­
gram was ascribed to Gerald C. 
Meyers, junior management, 
member of the football team and Dormitory council:
1. Make Council represent all students on campus.
2. Re-establish Council’s lost 
financial power when the move 
has come about. Make the Ad­
ministration aware that Council 
is a functional organization.
3. Promote better relations be­tween fraternity men and inde­
pendent men so that they may 
mutually benefit from the privi­
leges bestowed upon them by Stu­
dent Council, -v
4. Above all, see to it that there
is no discrimintory action taken 
by the body against any group on 
campus.
Citcom leader (and manage­
ment junior) John C. William­
son offered a statement in sup­
port of the National Student As­sociation.
“I feel that NSA can put knowl­
edge into the hands of colleges 
everywhere, spread information 
on student government, student 
problems, clubs, activities, and so forth.”
George E. Zenk, member of 
both Nabla mathematics honor­
ary and the A. R. R. L. (American 
Radio Relay League) provided 
another angle from which the 
much disputed Council representa­
tion theory can be discussed.
“I believe that fraternal and 
independent students should be
represented in the student gov­
ernment in direct proportion to their participation in extracurric­
ular activities.
“At the present time, certain 
groups hold control of the ma­
jority of the productive extracur­
ricular activities. If these activi­
ties could be put on an equitable 
and competitive basis, the qual­
ity of their work would doubtless improve.”
And to move down the seldom used back alley of non-voting 
members, I’AC presented Bruce 
Barrow, sophomore chemical en­
gineer from the dormitories, who 
reports that “I am not anti-fra­
ternity, but fraternity politics on 
this campus are one thing that I find quite obnoxious. I favor 
I’AC’s stand for ‘equitable rep­
resentation’ on Student Council.”

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY,, MAY 4, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Carnegie Press 
Publishes Book
The first book to be published 
by the Carnegie Press, “Encores on Main Street,” by Talbot Pear­
son of the drama department, is 
now on sale at the book store.
Sororities
[Continued, from page 1] 
trude O’Reilly is in charge, and 
the cast will contain approximate­
ly eight girls.Alpha Epsilon Phi’s skit is en­
titled “Mellerdramer” or “Never 
Amber.” In charge of the skit is 
Iris Rose.The Delta Gamma skit is a fash­
ion show called “Dee Gee Fashion 
Follies.’* Midge Teague is in 
charge.
Citcom’s skit is, at this time a secret. It is being planned by Tom 
Reilly.
The Kappa Kappa Gamma’s are 
presenting a. skit entitled “A’repo.” 
The leads will be taken by Helen 
Zimmerman, Mary Lou Land, Dot­
ty Kane, Kitty McGowan, Jane 
Orr, and Bashie Burnside.
Sigma Kappa, under the direc­
tion of Theresa Vahanian, will put 
on a pantomine with the theme of 
an automobile trip. Theresa Va­
hanian, Doris Soisson, Grace Fer­
raro, Anita Tambellini, and Pat 
Teakey are .in the skit.
The Thetas are putting on a 
satirical ballet. Marge Weaver is 
directing the cast of sixteen.
One of the Boys
'Rex Varese-Donada'
Rex Varese-Donada
Coronation
[Continued from page 1]
most points from intra-mural
sports.Throughout the program the 
Men’s Glee club will sing accom­
panied by the Kiltie Band which 
will open and close the program.
In case of rain the ceremonies 
will take place in the Little The­
ater.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
COKE AND MUSIC FOR HAPPY MOMENTS
South Americans have a funny 
custom: they always have a good 
time. Right now while the boys 
in the PiKA house may be yelling 
for Rex to answer the ’phone 
someone is looking for Rex in the 
Union, and a harried printing in­
structor is wondering who led 
half the class out of the room 
while his back was turned.
Meantime Rex is probably in 
the center of a gang of fellows in 
Skibo, brushing back the lock of 
his black hair which continually 
falls over his forehead, and ex­
plaining why he likes Tech girls. 
At a nearby table you can bet 
that several girls are discussing 
why they like Rex.
Mario Jose Tullio Rex Varese- 
Donada has been quite busy dur­
ing his stay at this institution. 
Ever since he left Peru Rex has 
been having a fine time learning 
what the citizens of the USA are 
up to. He wound up at Carnegie 
Tech after taking a course in Eng­
lish at the University of Michigan 
(he already spoke Spanish and 
Italian). A member of Pi Kappa 
Alpha, he has devoted two years 
of work to the Scottie, winding up 
as production manager; he has be­
come treasurer of Pi Delta Ep­silon, sergeant-at-arms for the lo­
cal chapter of the American In­
stitute of Graphic Arts, varsity 
swimming manager, and printing 
editor of Form. He has also trav­
eled extensively over the United 
States, and has picked up such 
local sports as skiing and drink­
ing beer.
All in all, Rex says he’s had a 
“darn good time,” and we wish 
he could go on showing us how 
; to have a darn good time, but a 
certain father in Lima expects 
his son to breeze in on a DC-6 
this summer. He hasn’t seen Rex 
since July, 1945, and is anxious 
for his smiling offspring to return 
and help him run his printing bus­
iness. But Rex, waving to a pass­
ing girl, reminds the boys he’ll 
be back for the printers’ reunion next year.
Dorm Council 
Holds Picnic
The annual Men’s Dormitory 
Council picnic was held at the 
South Park community house on 
Saturday, May 1 from 3:00 to 
11:45 p.m. Approximately 175 cou­ples attended and took part in the 
games. Joe Szymanski and Joe 
Roberts were the social chair-
Veterans No Longer Need VA 
Approval To Change Courses
GI’s Asked To Use Official VA Envelopes 
When Paying Insurance Premiums By Mail
Veterans studying in colleges and public high schools no longer 
will need prior approval of VA before changing their courses, the 
Veterans Administration announced.
In simplifying the method of allowing World War II veterans 
training under the GI Bill to change their educational goals, VA 
said that course changes may be#-----------------------:------------------------approved by. the schools.
Those doing satisfactory work 
in their training no longer will 
need counseling by VA before 
their requests may be approved. 
VA’s Education and Training sec­
tions may now grant this approval 
on the merits of each application.
Schools and establishments will 
notify VA immediately of all
before VA is notified of their 
change in status. All such over­
payments must be refunded to the 
government. -v
Veterans are urged to use offi­
cial VA premium mailing envel­
opes when paying National Serv­
ice Life Insurance premiums by 
mail.
If the official yellow VA pre­course changes they authorize. No mium notice envelopes are nottraining change is to be effective 
before the end of a term, semester, 
or other period of instruction for 
which tuition has been paid.
Requests for course changes will 
be referred to VA’s Advisement 
and Guidance sections for recom­
mendation only when the training 
progress of the applicant is unsat­
isfactory.
A veteran student in training is 
not entitled to subsistence allow­
ances after the date he interrupts or completes his training. In some 
cases, veterans stop their training 
and receive additional payments
used, veterans should give their 
GI insurance policy number, serv­
ice serial number, and any other 
information to aid VA in making 
proper identification.
VA said the use of the envel­
opes* helps to expedite handling of 
GI payments since full informa­
tion necessary to process the pay­
ment already is included by the 
VA before the envelope is mailed 
to veteran policy holders.
Veterans who pay GI insurance 
premiums by mail should make 
checks or money orders payable to 
the Treasurer of the United States.
Getting Down to 
Fundamentals
VOL.L 4L14—L NoL 2L—L4O1CL LA4—1RLL.E building a 
telephone system.
Not a real one, it’s true, but a table-top replica that 
illustrates the fundamental problems which management 
meets every day in planning, financing, developing, and 
expanding a telephone system such as the one that serves 
your home town.
They raise miniature telephone poles. They string mini­
ature telephone lines between homes and stores and the 
central office. They plot the changes required when a new 
telephone is installed . . . when a subscriber moves . . . 
when additional lines are needed in outlying sections of 
town. And they keep representative records of the money 
involved: where it comes from, how it is used, and how 
repaid.
Such training in the fundamentals of the business, as 
well as in technical matters, is part and parcel of a tele­
phone career. It is background for good management . .. 
and good management, by trained and ex- 
perienced employees, helps provide you with 
the best possible telephone service at the 
lowest possible cost.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
men.
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
Plus If!_ _ . , . - TUF-t .» State Tax .Ask for it either way... both 1
I trade-marks mean the same thing. k
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
© 1948, The Coco-Colo Company
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGERS
Oairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside
Other stores downtown

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 4, 1948
Varsity Football Squad 
Begins Spring Training
Donolioe Anticipates Better Team;
Renews Spring Practice Sessions
Under the direction of Head Coach Bill Donohoe, Carnegie Tech’s 
football squad is undergoing full-scale spring practice for the first 
time since 1941.
Fifty-five men have reported for practice, including 15 letter- 
men and 25 veterans of last year’s squad. Additional men are ex­
pected to join the squad for the fall practice season.
During spring practice, the^-------------------------------------------------
coaches plan to get the team run­
ning smoothly, to iron out diffi­
culties now that would come up
in the fall, and to prepare now 
for next season, so that CIT can 
win a good percentage of its 
games.
Coach Donohoe plans to hold 
practice sessions until Spring Car­
nival with an intra-squad game 
scheduled for Wednesday, May 12.
C. B. Groomes, last year’s cap­
tain and center, and Larry Sto- 
vicek, former end, have been con­
verted to fullback and guard re­
spectively. The Tartans are us­
ing the same line as last year, 
but the backfield race is wide 
open with the coaches looking for 
men who combine power and 
speed.
The coaching staff has develop­
ed a new system, a variation of 
the single wing using a roving 
wingback and an unbalanced line, 
designed to operate effectively 
against any type of defense.
Thus far, the players have 
shown confidence and determin­
ation in learning the new sys­tem. Ball-handling and coordina­
tion between linemen and backs 
have been improving steadily.
Donohoe plans to alternate prac­
tice sessions, with one day devot­
ed to new plays in dummy scrim­
mage, the next day to a full scrim­
mage on those plays.
Combining the men of last 
year’s squad with the transfer stu­
dents, entering freshmen, and oth­
ers who have never turned out 
before, the coaches expect to mold 
a team that can make 1948 a suc­
cessful season for Carnegie Tech.
Tartan Golfers 
Lose Opener
Stan Kwolek Scores 
Points for Carnegie
Playing its first match of the 
season, the Tartan golf team lost 
to Westminster, 16-2, at the New 
Castle Field club last Friday aft­
ernoon.
Members of CIT’s team are: 
Stanley Kwolek, B. Johnson, John 
Euver, Dave Schiller, Ralph Sill, 
and Bill Dean.
Stan Kwolek, number one man 
on the squad, scored Carnegie’s 
points by winning more holes on 
the front nine and more total holes 
than his opponent. He finished 
with an aggregate score of 88.
Dave Schiller shot the low total 
score for the Skibos but was 
matched against Lucas, the ace of 
the Westminster team, who went 
around with a sparkling 77. On 
the No. 5 hole Schiller ¡shot a 
birdie, only to have Lucas come 
up with an eagle.
The course is a tricky one to 
those who have never been over 
it before. A creek partially hidden 
by trees cuts across in front of 
greens 13 and 14. Number 5 hole 
is nestled in a valley between two 
cliffs, cut off in front by dense 
woods and protected in the rear 
by the creek.
Coach Overend’s proteges play 
two matches away this week. 
Thursday they travel to Grove 
City and next Tuesday meet W. & 
J. at Washington, Pa.
Stewart New Foul 
Shooting Winner
After forcing tne battle to the 
final shot in the qualifying rounds, 
Bud Yorkin of Tau Delta Phi 
proved an easy victim for TX’s 
Bill Stewart in a 50 shot playoff 
for the all school individual foul shooting crown.
Stewart and Yorkin, last year’s 
champion, finished the qualifying 
round with identical 86 scores, 
forcing an added round. By post­
ing a 42 Stewart easily beat 
Yorkin, who mustered only 31 
buckets.
Three other men tried hard but 
couldn’t reach the leaders. Jim 
Cronin of Emanon posted an 85 
and Frank Motter of Kappa Sig­
ma, an 83, while Bob Freese, also 
of Kappa Sigma, trailed with an 
82.
As a reward for his efforts, 
Stewart will receive a key from 
the intramural department.
Kappa Sigma Triumphs 
In Intramural Soccer
Led by Jerry Helland, who 
booted in the decisive goal with 
less than two minutes to go, Kap­
pa Sigma defeated Emanon, 4-3, 
for the school soccer champion­
ship on Monday, April 26.
The game was close and well- 
contested all the way, with four 
of the seven goals scored by pen­
alty kicks, two by Helland of Kap­
pa Sigma and two by Thomas 
of Emanon.
Kappa Sigma’s O’Neil and Hel­
land, and Emanon’s Feldman, each 
tallied a goal from the field. Hel- 
land’s goal was the result of a 
bank shot off the upper right-hand 
corner of the goal post. O’Neil’s 
and Feldman’s were well-directed 
kicks from about ten yards in 
front of the goals.
Emanon Beats Citcom 8-4 As Softball Opens
The opening day of softball 
play in the National League saw 
Emanon take the measure of Cit­
com by an 8-4 margin. The vic­
tors jumped-off to a five-run lead 
in the first inning and were nev­
er headed. Mruk and Barr led 
the Emanon attack with two hits 
each.
Tau Delta Phi smothered the 
Dramats, 23-9, in a game mark­
ed by poor defensive play and 
wild base-running.
Overcoming their opponents’ 
early lead, Delta Tau Delta edg­
ed the DU’s by a score of 11-7. 
An erratic defense in the late in­
nings contributed to the DU down­
fall.
TNT stopped Sigma Nu I by a 
7-4 count, with Tasso Katselas 
basestealing featuring for the vic­
tors. Mike Theodore, with a home- 
run and a double, drove in three 
of the Sigma Nu tallies.
Winning their second game of 
the season, TNT swamped the 
Tau Delts, 14-4. Catcher Joe Mat-
sey sparked the TNT offense with 
a double and a triple.
Continuing undefeated in league 
play, TNT defeated the Dramats 
by an 8-4 margin, exploding for 
three runs in the fifth inning to 
break up a tight pitching duel 
between Clark and Katselas.TNT has presented a brilliant 
defensive team, headed by left- fielder Dunn and third-baseman 
Chetlin, and also has shown 
plenty of power at the plate and 
an abundance of speed on the 
basepaths.To end the week’s play the DU’s 
defeated Citcom 12-9 in a game 
highlighted by many errors.The Standings 
Team Won Lost
TNT 3 0
Emanon 1 0
Delta Tau Delta 1 0
Delta Upsilon 1 1
Tau Delta Phi 1 1Citcom 0 2
Sigma Nu 0 1
Dramats 0 2
Helland and DeGiovanni of 
Kappa Sigma and Thomas and 
Feldman of Emanon, the spark­
plugs of their respective teams, to­
gether with the tight defense of 
each club, kept the game contin­
ually moving at a rapid pace.
Thomas’ booming penalty kicks 
and deceptive field play distin­
guished him as one of the out­
standing players of the league. 
Due to his educated toe, Helland 
clinched top scoring honors for the season.
LineupKappa Sigma
Stovicek
Wilder
Garver
DoughertyDeGiovanni
Helland
Hood
O’Neill
G
FB
RH
LH
RF
C
LF
Emanon
Pienkoski 
Hilton Demay 
Carry 
Feldman 
K. C. Thomas 
Saffer 
Carr 
Neiland
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lundies
Three Stores In the College District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
Main Plant« 
vov0 Boulevard of tbo Allies
Hk1l belalkmg about this
"Funny What a Dime Can Do" 
The Mary Osborne Trio's 
latest Decca disc
It’s a strummin’, hummin’ disc by the Mary 
Osborne Trio—and it’s headed for “top 
billing” with the platter set.
Mary knows the songs that suit her 
best . .. knows her cigarettes too. As 
Mary says it, “I’ve tried them all — 
Camels suit me best!”
Try Camels on your “T-Zone”— 
T for Taste, T for Throat. Find out 
for yourself why, with millions of 
who have tried and com­
pared, Camels are the “choice of 
experience.’*
And here's 
another great record:
More people

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY,, MAY 4, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
SêRvicrVJrTHneClarks
fONE PLACE ^ ' VfHEREWPOOS Tar A^ATtura?t,Pkr i
LOST IN SKIBO . . .
White Gold Engagement Ring. 
Please Contact 
Ann Fran, MO. 8137
REWARD
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Time For That Haircut
time during the day. He’d even 
answer the phone at 3 a. m. if he 
thought the man could pass the 
entrance exam.
Bert Munhall views this spring 
practice with remorse as it will be 
his last at CIT. The administra­
tion will look for a long time be­
fore finding a trainer of Bert’s 
calibre.
SportscopeIntramural Softball Program 
Unearths Many Heavy Hitters
By William Schnitgen
The intramural softball program seems to have unearthed a 
multitude of sluggers, as indicated by early games in which
the long ball hitters have driven fear into the hearts of oppos­
ing moundsmen.
PiKA’s Lou Heiles, who swings from either side, has con­
nected for two circuit blows. Wayne Ashbee blasted one with
the bases loaded to break up a#-----------------------------------------------
ball game for the ATO’s.
Bill deVos collected a round 
tripper with a crowd of Sigma 
Nu’s on the sacks in a game with 
the Nine Old Men. Big Mike The­
odore almost ripped the cover off 
the ball with a terrific clout in the 
Sigma Nu-TNT clash.
Try as they may, these sluggers 
can’t lose the ball, but many dis­appear through other channels.
One of the biggest complaints is 
that balls and bats seem to get 
“lost” in the confusion following a 
game.
Despite lack of man power, the 
officiating has been quite satisfac­
tory to date. Managers of compet­
ing teams report little dissatisfac­
tion with the conduct of the games.
An orchid to the men making this 
possible.
Otto Abraham reports that the 
intramural board has formed a 
committee to investigate and pre­
sent a set of rules for softball as 
played on the CIT campus. The 
problem of the over-size 14 inch 
ball and the layout of the fields seems to prohibit the consistent 
use of official rules.
New ruling by the board bars 
men on probation from participat­
ing in intramural athletics. Ac­
quiring suitable grades by mid­
semester will not remove the man 
from probation, so he is ineligible 
for the entire semester.
Down in the bowl Bill Donohoe 
is again engaged in trying to solve 
problems that are well suited to 
the task of turning his hair gray.
If anyone knows where he can 
find some big, fast backs, they can 
contact Bill at his office at any
Trackmen Try For First Victory 
In Saturday Meet With Allegheny
CIT Joins
Tri-State
Association
Carnegie Tech became one 
the twenty charter members 
the Tri-State Intercollegiate As­
sociation for Selection of Ath­
letic Officials at its initial meet­
ing in Carnegie Union on April 
25.
The purpose of this organization 
is to appoint officials for the foot­
ball and basketball games in­
volving the member schools. It is 
expected that the ' association’s 
control will eventually be extend­
ed to include all of the major 
sports.
Mr. Clarence Overend, director 
of athletics at CIT, was elected 
president, with Robert E. Thorn 
of Grove City as vice-president 
and Roy M. Hawley of West Vir­ginia as secretary-treasurer.
Dave Fawcet, who assisted the 
late Calvin Bolster in a similar 
position, was selected as com­
missioner. He will have the pow­
er to appoint officials for the con-
SPALDING
neTBuang e;gE pTtu,uET aJ.hAlPmhlJ. hJ hs..lM lMTKE*TYJ1ST SERVICE"...THE HAÎ^HÎT, TWISTING, HIGÄ- 
BODNCINS BALL ALLOWS THE
THE TWINS OF 
CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS
The Spaldinc and the Spalding, 
made Wricht T Ditson Tennis Balls 
lead the field in official adoptions for 
Major Tournaments, including the U. S. 
Davis Cup and National Championships.
Ernie Cassler breaks the 
George of Grove City a driving second.
hundred yard dash with
Tennis Team Overwhelms Thiel 
After Losing Opener To Dukes
After dropping their opening 
match against the Dukes of Du- 
quesne university on Tuesday, 
April 27, the Carnegie Tech ten- 
is team travelled to Greenville on 
May 1 to chalk up an 8-1 win over 
Thiel.
In their victorious invasion oi 
Greenville the Tartan netters were 
paced by captain Jim Taylor who
tests.
In addition to Carnegie, the 
charter membership includes Al­
legheny, Alliance, Bethany, Clar­
ion, Californiia Teacher, Du- 
quesne, Grove City, Geneva, In­
diana Teachers, Fîtt, St. Fran­
cis, Slippery Rock, Steubenville, 
St. Vincent, Thiel, Waynesburg, 
Washington and Jefferson, West­
minster, and West Virginia.
scored a 6-1, 6-1 victory in his 
singles match with Jones of Thiel. 
In the other singles matches Bas­
sett, Cronin, Burkhart, and Mc- 
Cardle of Carnegie all won their 
matches. Thiel scored its only 
point when Himmelrich won over 
the Skibo’s Kroko in a hard 
fought match, 6-4, 6-8, and 7-5.
The most interesting fight of 
the match occurred when Miller 
and Burkhart of Carnegie fought 
an uphill battle in the doubles to 
steal a victory from Chambers 
and Fleischer of Thiel. After drop­
ping the first set 4-6, the Tartan 
duo came back to take the remain­
ing sets, 10-8 and 9-7.
The other doubles matches went 
to the CIT netmen with little dif 
ficulty as the teams of Bassett- 
McCardle and Kroko - Cronin 
shared the honors.
Playing against the Duquesne 
Dukes on the hard surfaced 
courts of McKinley park on April 
27 proved to be no easy task for 
the Tartans, as they fell by a 6-3
Beaten 78-53 
By Grove City
The Carnegie Tech trackmen, 
luckless thus far, will try to 
break into the win column 
when they play host to Alleghe­
ny college on Saturday, May 8.
In an unimpressive showing 
last Saturday, Coach Guy Hal- 
ferty’s runners went down to a 
78-53 defeat at the hands of 
Grove City. Only the blinding 
speed of Ernie Cassler and the 
consistent drive of Ivor Davies 
saved the locals from an over­
whelming loss.
Cassler, true to form, won both 
the 100 and 220 yard dashes as 
teammate Warren Johnson cop­
ped third in both events. It was. 
however, in the 880 yard run that 
the Plaid made their best show­
ing. The veteran Davies broke the 
tape with a winning time of 2:00.4 
with George Dorman following 
close on his heels in second place.
Only other first place credited 
to the Tartan runners was in the 
four-fifths of a mile relay. Here 
again Cassler, running the first 
leg, paved the way to victory by 
establishing a sizeable lead which 
Fred Price, Davies, and A1 Yarian 
refused to relinquish.
The field events found the Tar­
tans trailing in all but one divi­
sion. Gene Riehl and Connie 
Hamman both reached 5’4” to tie 
for first place in the high jump.
Followng the Allegheny meet 
this Saturday, the Plaid trackmen 
will wind up their dual meets for 
the season with a home engage­
ment against Westminster on Thursday, May 13.
ATO’s Defeat 
Beta Sigs, Win 
League Lead
The ATO’s jumped to an early 
lead in the American League by 
defeating Dorm Combine “A,” 6-5, 
for their second stright victory. 
Wayne Ashbee broke up the ball 
game in the last of the seventh, 
hitting a home run with bases loaded.
In the opener the league leaders 
defeated the Beta Sig’s 4-3 behind 
the two-hit pitching of Norm Lar­
sen. Larsen displayed some fine 
control in this game. Ashbee was 
again a big factor, scoring three 
^of the four runs.
The SAE’s, taking advantage of 
17 hits and 6 errors by the TS 
team, swamped their opponents 21-1.
Despite six strikeouts by Comis 
of Dorm Combine “A,” the Betas 
collected 10 hits off him to win 
the game 8-1. In their second 
game, the Dorm team collected 12 
runs off 8 hits and 6 errors to de­feat the Beta Sigs 12-3.
FPHA defeated the Printers 4-1.
League StandingsTeam
ATO
SAE
BetasFPHA
Dorm Coum “A” SS
Printers 
Beta Sigs
Won Lost
2 0
P*ce s*$e& tnWi seo#*
“What’s a little rap like twenty years if 1 can 
have all 1 want of delicious, clean tasting 
Dentyne Chewing Gum. Just think—twenty years to enjoy that rich. long lasting flavor and all that 
time Dentyne will help keep my teeth white.”
Dentyne Gum — Made Only By Adams

---------------------------------------------------

is so much 
better to smoke!
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
I’AC Defeated In Attempt 
To Down Weighted Ballot
TUESDAY, MAY 4, 1948
[Continued from page 3) 
the meeting of April 21 that the 
Tartan be directed to devote one 
full page to statements and pic­
tures of Student Council nomi­
nees. Various amendments and 
modifications were also suggested, 
and a modified form of the origi­
nal motion was finally passed.
After a week’s consideration, 
however, of the unusual expense 
which would be involved, as well 
as of the fact that in forcing the 
Tartan to print this material 
Council would be violating the 
trust placed in the Tartan staff 
under the recently adopted Tar­
tan constitution, Council rescind­
ed te motion on April 28.
Paul Schucker, chairman of 
Council Budget committee, re­
quested that budgets for all or­
ganizations operating under Coun­
cil jurisdiction be turned into the 
Dean’s office no later than May 12. 
Names of both the business man­
ager and assistant business man­
ager of these organizations should 
be attached to these budgets.
Gold-jeweled keys were award­
ed to Lee Wiley, Mario Varese- 
Donada, and Richard Dunbar for 
their work on the Scottie staff. 
William Bourke, Ann Young, Lou­
ise Miller and Alfred Walls were 
awarded gold keys, while Paul 
Waddle received a silver key. Ac­
tion on a motion by Marilyn Alls- 
house, chairman of the Points and 
Keys committee, to award keys 
to members of the Women’s Glee 
Club was postponed until next
[Continued from page 3] 
tionalized with her home econom­
ics dicta.
The president was impressed by 
this testimony.
The committee further wanted 
to know about the food service 
accounting methods. Is Skibo’s ac­
count combined with those of the 
Inn and with the various women’s 
dormitories? Are prices in sfribo 
based on the overal financial con­
dition of the whole?
Dr. Doherty replied that all food 
services are included in the costs.
In response to further question­
ing, the President noted that the 
Inn is at present losing money and 
that the deficit is being included 
in Skibo prices.
“Arfe the women’s dormitories 
losing money?” (There had been 
more home economics talk, this 
time of frozen strawberry desserts 
at Mellon hall.)
The President wasn’t sure, but 
if Mellon or any of the other 
dorms were losing, then this too 
was being included in the pooled 
accounting computations.
Miss Ollett put in, “If the com­
muters and the men’s dorm stu­
dents are making up the losses at 
the women’s dorms, it doesn’t 
seem fair.”
Editorial
[Continued from page 2] 
bring no glamorous praise — and 
without which the wheels and 
gears on Council would run out 
of organizations whose constitu­
tions they could rewrite, and 
which can be generally annoyed 
and disrupted when ordinary poli­
tics becomes dull.
Admittedly the key award setup 
has its faults. But we know 
through experience that those lit­
tle pieces of graven metal help to 
give many people at least that all- 
important initial push out to the 
various activities.
We have further been instructed 
in the value of some type of tan­
gible award as a supplement to 
the invisible benefits which are 
the real purpose behind extra­
curricular endeavor.
Perhaps Council will find it po­
litically expedient to reconsider 
the question instead of just plain 
salvoing it for the sake of big 
black headlines and a few extra 
electoral points.
week so that a check can be made 
on the finances of the organiza­
tion.
Jack Johnson was appointed as­
sistant social chairman by Presi­
dent Ulrich. The resignation from 
Council of David Mintz was ac­
cepted.
During the meeting of April 28 
the constitution of WCIT as pre­
sented by Ivan Faigen was ac­
cepted by Council. Edwin Gifford 
proposed a rough draft of the 
organization of the student curric­
ulum committee which he had 
previously suggested. He asked, 
however, that his motion to es­
tablish this committee as a regu­
lar part of Council be tabled for one week.
Motions by C. B. Groomes, 
chairman of the social committee, 
to permit YWCA to hold a dinner 
on May 3 and Delta Tau Delta 
fraternity to hold an off-campus 
dance on May 1 were approved.
Scotch ’it Soda 
Gets Publicity 
On The Air
Scotch and Soda club has gone 
on the air to help publicize “The 
Lady’s at Work” which opens in 
the Carnegie Music hall next 
Tuesday night, May 11.
Radio station WCAE will spon­
sor two programs using club 
members and people from the 
show. With Baron Elliot’s orches­
tra, Scotch and Soda’s singing 
leads Gloria Bergman and Eddie 
Edmonds will introduce songs 
from “The Lady’s at Work” over 
the Varsity Club show Saturday, 
May 8 at 1:00 p. m.
Last week members of the club 
produced a half-hour program on 
station WPIT and were interview­
ed on WPGH’s “This is Pitts­burgh.”
Scotch and Soda is using its ra­
dio time to boost sales for the 
matinee performance Thursday, 
May 13 at 3:30. Tickets for the 
afternoon show will sell at $1.30 
for any seat in the house.
i. e.
[Continued from page 2] 
other similarly misguided individ­
uals of the college level go about 
spreading lies and fomenting hat­red.
For years learned men, with the 
aid of scientific proof to back their 
assertions, have been trying to 
convince the public of the truth; 
trying to make people accept the 
fact that a man’s mental ability is 
not limited by his race, religion, or 
national allegiance. Why, then, do 
many U.S. colleges and univer­
sities insist upon keeping their 
exclusion restrictions? Such in­
difference to the truth is unjusti­fiable.
Prejudice is carried into many 
diverse fields and why not? If in­
stitutions of higher learning can 
rationalize their actions to fit their 
deeds, there is no reason why oth­
er groups should not follow suit. 
The world looks to its universities 
for new ideas and, even though 
some are corrupt with hypocrisy, 
'it has been willing to bow and 
scrape with blind acceptance. Col­
lege policies, in this very subtle 
and sometimes innocent manner, 
help to solidify class hatred.
Carnival Queens
[Continued from page 
and will provide seven escorts for 
the girls. Present at the banquet 
will be Alphonse Toppetto, presi­
dent of Theta Xi, Ludwig Benner, 
social chairman, the escorts, and 
Mr. J. M. Daniels, faculty advisor, 
three men from Spring Carnival 
committee, Wilfred Hawkins, Dale 
Wright, and Ronald Shoff, Deans 
Yon, Dickenson, Campbell, and 
David, and Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. March.
The five judges were chosen as 
representative of the five fields of 
fashion, art, business, modeling, 
and photography.
Miss Brundige is fashion editor 
of the Pittsburgh Press, Mr. Reed 
Hasty is instructor of Fine Arts 
at the University of Pittsburgh» 
Mrs. Potts is director of public 
relations for Joseph Horne Co.» 
Miss Burdell is head of the Vic» 
toria Mannequin School, and Mr. 
Klingensmith is a photographer 
for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
and chairman of the executive 
board of the Pittsburgh Press 
Photographers Association.
CK... TODAY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY,, MAY 4, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor 
Cecille Zellner News Editor 
Anne Shack Associate Editors 
George Bogovich Catherine RomanoffPage edited by Evening School stu­
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technolo­
gy. AH views or opinions expressed in 
editorial column are not necessarily en­
dorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day 
School staff.
Staff
Lou Adams George DawesBay Schwalm Charlene J. Tohey
Bill Wallace A1 SnowdenFrank Mihelic Jim FlahertyPat Schaffer
Louis Adams 
To Edit Plaid
Lou Adams, who is to be the 
editor of the Plaid this coming 
year, hails from McKees * Rocks, 
Pa. Lou is employed by the Insti­
tute during the day holding the 
position of assistant Laboratory 
Mechanician in the Mechanical 
Engineering Dept. By taking 
courses at Evening School he 
hopes to earn his degree in Me­
chanical Engineering.
Lou is an ambitious and active 
member of evening student coun­
cil. In his two years at Carnegie 
he has held the positions of Plaid 
reporter and drama critic, vice 
president of the Evening Student 
Council, and president of Sigma 
Delta Phi.
Lou is well qualified lor his po­
sition as Plaid editor. Aside from 
being interested, active and faith­
ful in all that he undertakes, he 
has had varied journalistic ex­
perience.
Night Students 
Need Perseverence
I think that one of the most im­
portant requisites of an evening 
student is perseverance. Without 
this perseverance, a person con­
templating evening classes 
shouldn’t even register. Most of 
us, that are now attending evening 
classes, are holding down jobs, 
from which we earn our livli- 
hood. The reasons for attending 
these evening classes are many. 
The most important ones being; 
first, to further our education so 
that we may advance ourselves in 
our respective fields; second, to 
better understand our complicated 
way of life and surroundings and 
third, to make new friends.
Pollock Writes 
‘Steps of Sand’
Lack of Single Theme 
Weakens Production
The seventh major production 
in the Little Theater is Steps of 
Sand by Bert Pollock, a senior 
playwriting student. Inexperience 
plays a major part in the writing 
of this play, for Mr. Pollock has 
trouble concentrating on a single 
theme. The questions which the 
author discusses are too numer­ous, and, in some cases, discon­
nected from the general idea of 
the plot. Many of his situations 
were artificial, and much of the 
dialogue was superfluous.
Most Up-to-Date Restaurant in Oakland
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOM
3716 Forbes Street
• IDEAL LUNCHES — TASTY SANDWICHES
I J. Paul Sheedy* Switched io WiWroot Cream-GH 
Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
ALL panda-monium just broke loose for this little guy with 
the hairy ears and two black eyes. Somebody snitched his 
Wildroot Cream-Oil! You may not be a panda — but why 
not see what Wildroot Cream-Oil canda? Just a little bit 
grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered- 
down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, 
ugly dandruff. And Wildroot Cream-Oil helps you pass the 
Fingernail Test! It’s non-alcoholic . . . contains soothing 
Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic 
at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And always ask 
your barber for a professional application. In case there’s a 
panda in your house — keep some Wildroot Cream-Oil 
handa for him!
^ of 327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y. /tfC^Cbwocrr l»""\Ay<vr.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Summer Session
Students planning to attend either the six- or eight-week 
Summer Session, beginning 
July 2, who have not filed ap­
plications indicating the courses 
they desire should do so im­
mediately. Such information is 
required for preparation of final schedules of summer 
classes. Application forms and schedule information may be 
obtained at the Summer Ses­
sion office in IH 236-C.
Director Glen U. Cleeton, in 
charge of Summer Session 
courses, has announced the ad­
dition of S-223, Analytic Ge­
ometry and Calculus II, to the 
schedule of mathematics 
courses previously announced. 
Other subjects offered in the 
eight - week session include chemistry, drawing and de­
scriptive geometry, and phys­
ics. During the six-week ses­
sion, courses in music, paint­
ing and design, architecture, 
drama, psychology and educa­
tion, and sculpture will be of­fered.
I saw only one performance so
I cannot do full justice to all the actors, but in the cast which I 
saw much fine work was done. 
Judy Lambert, who was called upon to carry much of the story, 
was excellent. Her understanding 
of the role enabled her to convey 
the full force of her thoughts to 
the audience. Bill Oliver was con­
vincing for the most part in his 
portrayal of the returned war vet­
eran, but at times he seemed to 
lose the continuity of thought of 
the character. Other creditable 
performances were given by Phyl­lis Ann Love as the understanding 
sister of the veteran and by Gaye 
Jordan as the veteran’s fiance, al­though she was inclined to over­
act some of her emotional scenes. 
In the supporting role of the 
nurse, Helen Finlay presented noteworthy characterization. L. A.
Councilman Criticizes 
Attendance At Socials
Editorial-
Plaid Costs
A situation has arisen in eve­
ning school which will materially affect the Plaid next year. Rising 
costs have taken their toll in eve­
ning student council funds and it has been found that mailing 
costs have gone far out of reach 
of the Plaid. This means that next 
year the evening school paper will 
have to be distributed in the halls as was done in former years. It 
then becomes the responsibility of 
each student to secure a copy of 
the paper for it contains many 
important items.
It is well known to the staff and 
readers of the Plaid that coverage 
and space on the page is insuf­
ficient, and in an effort to correct 
this situation the staff is consid­ering the publication of a separate 
paper on a bi-weekly basis. This 
question will be decided upon at 
a special conference between 
members of evening student coun 
cil, the* Plaid, and the adminis­tration. Any suggestions from 
evening school students as to their 
preference in the matter will be 
appreciated by the staff. Address 
all communications to: The Edi 
tor, Carnegie Plaid, Box 256. Drop 
these letters in the inter-school 
mail slot in the slot next to the 
bookstore in the basement of In­
dustries Hall. L. A.
Class Notice
All evening and Saturday 
morning classes will continue 
as usual during Thursday, Fri­
day and Saturday of Spring 
Carnival week May 13, 14 and 
15.
’ W. L. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO., BROCKTON IS# MASS.
205 FIFTH AVE.
6223 FRANKSTOWN AVE. (E. LIBERTY)* 1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING
* This is an open letter to Even­
ing School students from one of their representatives in council. 
The main point of it is the lack 
of support of social activities. 
During the current school year, 
two dances and a party were 
held. Needless to say, the com­
bined turn-out would not have 
crowded Thistle Hall. In fact, the 
poorest showing was at the free 
party held in Margaret Morrison 
at the beginning of the present 
semester. What kind of entertain­
ment do you people want? Grant­
ed that the banquet was very suc­
cessful, we can’t afford that type 
of affair every month.
Speaking of the Banquet brings 
UP an interesting point. It went so 
far over the top that we could not 
supply enough tickets to meet the 
demand. Why can’t we, the eve­
ning School Council get some of 
this support for our dances; or is 
it that you don’t want dances.
Maybe some of you Students 
do not realize that everyone con­
tributes to the fund by which 
these activities are financed. At every registration you pay an 
activities fee of fifty cents which 
must pay for the Plaid, the hand­
book, and the mailing of the 
Plaid to you, and also finance the 
social activities. For at least this 
reason, our dances should be a success.
If just about one student out of every four would come and 
bring his wife or girl-friend we 
would not have any trouble.
For the information of the coun­
cil, please fill in and return the 
blank which appears with this ar­
ticle. Please list at least three 
choices. If the returns are large 
enough to represent an opinion 
of the entire student body the af­fair specified will be presented to 
council for action, and the 
chances are all in your favor that the activity will be held.
Address replys to Evening Stu­dent Council, Box 256, S. I. T., 
mark inter-school mail. The mail 
box is in Industries Hall next to the book store.—G. D.
My choice for future activi­
ties are:
1........................................................
2.......................................................
3........................................................
10 Night Students 
Join Phi Gamma Pi
Ten women evening students 
were initiated into the active 
membership of Phi Gamma Pi on 
April 18 at the Carnegie Union. 
These new members constitute the 
first such group initiated since the 
organization of the independent 
social sorority in the fall of 1946.
Those initiated include Charlene 
Tohey, Josephine Pesich, Dorothy 
Delk, Betty Williams, Elizabeth 
Lakotos, Peggy Harvey, Stella 
Jakowski, Elizabeth Dietsch, Mary 
Episcopo and Lois Williams.
Mrs. Dorothy Goodfellow, fac­
ulty sponsor of the group, was 
initiated as an honorary member 
in tribute to her aid and advice to 
the students in organizing and 
conducting the business of Phi 
Gamma Pi.
Sigma Delta Phi, Evening school 
social fraternity, held its monthly 
meeting Sunday, April 18th in the 
Student Conference room, Car­
negie Union. President Lou Ad­
ams asked Mr. Edward MacDon­
ald to give a brief History of 
Sigma Delta Phi for this benefit 
of the new members who were 
initiated into active membership. 
Those initiated were George 
Dawes and A1 Earl.

---------------------------------------------------

? T JLJL JL UlIlVJLYv VlIVUUVllIVlU.
( FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS)
Liggett & Myers buy top quality cigarette tobacco 
and pay top prices for it. . . nobody will average 
paying more than they do year in and year out.
I've been smoking Chesterfields ever since I*ve been smoking. I just like them . . . they have real tobacco flavor. ^
FARMER—DANVILLE. VA
NO OTHER 
CIGARETTE CAN TAKE 
CHESTERFIELD’S PLACE 
ME. THEY SATISFY."
CURRENTLY STARRING IN
"THE BIG CLOCK"
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
lit* OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
tt TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
12 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN r*vrr™ ^ TUESDAY, MAY 4, 1948
Bulletin Board
AIChE
Mr. Charles Reid of General 
Electric will talk on “Chemical 
Engineering in the Electrical In­
dustry” following a business meet­
ing of the AIChE at 7:30 p. m. on 
May 6, in EH-122.
The topic will be of special in­
terest to those underclassmen who 
have not yet chosen a specific 
branch of chemical engineering 
in which to specialize. All non­
members are invited to attend.
Orchestra Concert
In its second concert of the cur­
rent semester to be held on May 
5 in Carnegie Music Hall, the Car­
negie Tech student orchestra and 
chorus will feature student con­
ductors and soloists. Tickets for 
this concert are available in the 
office of the department of music, 
in Fine Arts.
Don Wilkins will play “Concerto 
for Organ and Orchestra in F” by 
Handel, and Lettie Gearhart, 
“Prelude and Allegro for Organ 
and Strings” by Piston.
Student directors Edward Ron- 
cone, Joseph Stecko, Roland Doll- 
hoph, and Alice Connor Camp will 
conduct, respectively, “Freedom, 
Toleration” by Harris, “Swan 
Orchard” by Hindemith, “23rd 
Psalm” by Virgil Thomson, and 
“Alleluia” by Thomson.
As a finale the orchestra and 
chorus will present “Te Deum” 
by Bruchner.
Tar quins’ Club
“Rippling Rhythm” is the title 
of the Tarquins’ water show to be 
presented in the gymnasium 
swimming pool, on Thursday, May 
6, at 7:30 p. m.
The show will be the first of its 
kind presented on campus. There 
will be no admission charge, but 
the number of seats is limited.
The Tarquins, CIT’s water mer­
maids, are sponsored by the WAA, 
with Miss Betty Hartman, instruc­
tor of physical education, in 
charge.
ROTC Honorary
Scabbard and Blade will install 
its new officers on Thursday, May 
6. They are already working on 
plans for this spring’s intramural 
rifle matches, next year’s all­
school Military Ball, and a new 
campus idea, Cadet Coeds.
YWCA Cabinet
On Wednesday, April 28, the 
new officers of the CWCA cabinet, 
now officially the YWCA, were 
elected.
Dorothy Stewart, a Home Eco­
nomics junior, was elected presi­
dent for next fall. Doris Moore, 
who is a junior in the General 
Science Department, will be the 
vice-president of the cabinet. Jus­
tine Richards, a sophomore in the 
Secretarial Department, was elect­
ed to the position of secretary. 
Anne Exline, a junior who is also 
in the Secretarial Department, 
will be the treasurer for the fall 
and spring semester.
These girls, all of whom have 
been very active in the YWCA, 
were installed into their new of­
fices on Monday evening, May 3, 
at Carnegie Union.
