SHO^
TECH-YALE GAME 
Langley Laboratory 
SaturdayŒhff(3arian
FOOTBALL DANCE 
Carnegie Union 
Odlober 2
VOL XV. No. 1.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF' ..’ECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.SEPTEMBER 27, 1920.
New Office of Dean of Women 
Filled by Smith College Graduate
Mrs. Laura W. L. Scales to WorkFor Welfare of Girl Students
The most important addition to the 
Faculty of Carnegie Institute this 
year has been made by the appoint­
ment of a Dean of Women, whose 
duties with relation to the girls of 
the school will be much the same as 
are those of the Dean of Men with the men.
Mrs. Laura W. L. Scales, who has 
been chosen for this position, was 
graduated from Smith College in 
1901, and has for several years been 
connected with the Boston Museum 
of Fine Arts as Museum Instructor. 
She has also done some literary 
work, contributing an article, “Art 
and the Present Hour,” to the Ameri­
can Magazine of Art for April, 1920.
Mrs. Scales wishes to impress upon 
the girls the fact that her work will 
be with all the girls of all the schools, 
as she phrases* it, and she wishes the
girls from all departments to feet 
free to consult her at any time. Her 
work will, of course, have nothing to 
do with the regular curriculum of the 
student; it will be entirely of an ad­
visory nature. The Dean of Women 
wall have charge of the Girls’ Dorms 
and of housing conditions in general 
for the women students.
She will regulate the social life of 
those who come under her jurisdic, 
fion, but in a helpful rather than a re­
strictive sense. She wishes to fur­
ther a greater spirit of co-operation 
among the members of the different 
schools and departments.
The Dean says that her position 
might be likened to that of “a Morale 
Officer in the army.” We are sure 
that Mrs. Scales has the breadth of 
view and the sympathetic understand­
ing which will make her highly quali­
fied for the position she i sto fill.
19 2 0-1921 
Program of 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
FOR OPENING WEEK
President’s Welcome to Students 
Predicts Notably Successful Year
Outlook Promises to OutstripAll Previous Records.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27
9:00 to 4:00 Registiation...................................Arts Building
4:30 Mass Meeting Freshmen ........................................Union
4:30 Mass Meeting Freshmen (women) . . . .Library Hut
TUESLAY, SEPTEMBER 28
Tech Cafeteria Reopened
This Year By Varsity Clan
Enos Kirkpatrick, Ex-Ball Player, Manager
The school cafeteria, which has had 
a somewhat checkered career, will be 
opened with a bang this fall under the 
supervision of teh Varsity Clan, rep­
resented by the Graduate Manager. 
The direct management of the restau­
rant will b.e in the hands of Enos 
Kirkpatrick, formerly a baseball play­
er of national repute, and more re­
cently associated in the supervision of 
the cafeteria of the United States 
Aluminum Company at New Kensing­ton, Pa.
Mr. Kirkpatrick’s experience in his 
work with the Aluminum Company 
will stand him in good stead, as the 
conditions under which both the res­
taurants were run are quite parallel. 
It will be the policy of Mr. Kirknat- i:i/?> to give l-u i-iié /acuity, students, and alumni the very best possible 
service at the lowest rate that can 
be profitably maintained, keeping al­
ways in mind the desirability of main­
taining a high standard and quality.
Mr. Kirkpatrick will welcome at all 
times any suggestions for the better­
ment of the service of the cafeteria, 
and also wishes to have everyone feel 
free to register any complaints, as it 
is only through the cooperation of all 
concerned that the very best results 
can be obtained. It will be the ambi- 
iton of Mr. Kirkpatrick to make ev­
eryone feel that the restaurant is a 
coperative proposition in all senses of 
the word, and it is particularly desir­
able to call attention to the fact that 
good results in the maintenance of
Rehearsal for Fall Festival Pageant—
“Burj/ing of the Hatchet”.................................Tech Field
Band Rehears-!..........................Room 150 Arts Bldg.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
General Assembly...........................................Music Hall
Class Contests....................................................Tech Field
Fall Festival . ..................................................Tech Field
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30
4:30 Mass meeting— all students to practice
Cheers and Song's................................................Tech Field
4:00
4:30
10:30
3:00
8:30
J.
PO BIO DIRECIOR
the project can only be obtained by 
handling a large volume of business. 
He assures that a fair trial on the 
part of all concerned is all that is 
necessary to convince the patrons 
that the Carnegie Tech cafeteria will 
be a proposition of mutual advantage.
Incidentally, it will undoubtedly be 
of interest to those who are not per­
sonally acquainted with Mr. Kirkpat­
rick to know something of his ath­
letic record before his entrance into 
the restaurant business. In the year 
of 1912 and 1913 he played second 
base on the Brooklyn National 
League team. In 1914 he jumped to 
the Baltimore team of the Federal 
League at a very attractive salary 
during the existence of the League, wKioi' •_ o.wtiKivuiy' enree years. 
In 1918 Mr. Kirkpatrick came to the 
United States Aluminum Company in 
New Kensington, where he was made 
manager of their team, which this 
year played practically every semi-pro’ 
team in this section of the country, 
and came through their schedule of 
twenty-eight games with twenty-six 
wins to their credit.
In addition to having been a base­
ball player of. the first water, Kirk­
patrick also played center on I-Ionus 
Wagner’s basketball team in the sea­
son of 1913 and 1914. In as much as 
Mr. Kirkpatrick still has the same 
interest in baseball he anticipated 
taking an active part in assisting the 
sterling coach IIonus Wagner in the 
shaping up bf of the Carnegie Tech 
baseball teams.
TECH-YALE GAME
Before You Register
Student Activitie; Board to Collect, Tartan 
Subscription, Fee, at Registration
Band Goes to Lehigh Game 
Also to Wheeling for 
Bethany Game.
“Sully” is back again, boys. And to 
you new men, that means all the 
pep in the world. If you play any 
instrument at all, get out and join 
the BAND. There is no line of ac­
tivity which more able to raise 
the moral of the student body. It 
brings out their spirit. We don’t 
want to be finding fault with things. 
We must get back of everything and 
boost. This is more especially true 
of the football season. That team 
must fight and the student body must 
urge it on. The band is best suited 
to accomplish this.
Now. to you, Mr. Freshman, this 
is a distinct advantage. It is en­
deavoring, at the present time, to 
have all freshmen members excused 
from regulations. Last j’-ear credit 
towards graduation was given for 
work done in the band. You play with 
other men of musical ability and get 
that sense of co-operation. You are 
advanced farther in the ability to 
handle your own instrument. You 
meet with a congenial crowd of men 
who aim to help you all they can. 
Don’t think that if you join the band 
you’ll have a lot of extra work. Other 
men have spent years with organiza­
tion and have found it otherwise.
Here’s the thing: Get your horn 
out, or if you don’t have it here, come 
anyway and send home for it. The 
band will make the trip to Lehigh 
with the football team, also to 
Wheeling for the Bethany game. They 
are only two of the many such trips 
that are planned by Manager R. W. 
Arnold. The first rehearsal is slated 
for September 28, 5:00 P. M., Room 
No. 150 Arts Bujj/Jing. BE THERE.
The Tech-Yale game, it is planned, 
will be reported, play by play, in the 
Langley Laboratory on the afternoon 
of October 2. This will enable stu­
dents who are unable to attend the 
game itself to follow the play with 
almost as much facility as though 
they themselves were present at New 
Haven. The plan has been worked 
out here before, and has proved most 
satisfactory. Rooting and cheering 
seem to come almost as naturally at 
one of these long distance games as 
at the real thing, and if those who 
attend the game in body will only do 
so in spirit, we will have an enthusi­
astic crowd at the Laboratory next 
Saturday.
To round out the day, a Football 
Dance will be held in the evening. 
Dancing will be from 8 to 11:30 in 
the Union, and it is planned to make 
this a regular "get-together” gath­
ering for both the old students and 
the Freshmen.
Every one of the executives of 
Tech is doing his best to start this 
year off with the spirit so well dis­
played at the closing of school last 
spring, and we are sure that their 
efforts will prove successful. The 
game and dance will start the season 
with a rush.
Band Rehearsal
Tuesday, September 28 
5 P. M.
| Room 150 - - Arts Bld’g
In accordance with the actif n of the Student Activities Board .$1.25 will 
be collected from every student registering in any division of the Institute, 
This will be collected by a representative of the Student Activities Board 
as the students pass through tluf registration line. Under the new manage­
ment the Tartan will be circulated on the Campus every Wednesday without 
charge. A representative will lTp located in each of the division buildings 
and rlistviVmtp i-ri'io .>P ««.'.! .. iiuur. li ÿou miss your copy
there, call for one at the C. I. T. Postoffice, Storerooms or Tartan Office.
NO NICKLES—NO BOOKS—NO TICKETS.
JUST GET IT.
The Trustees, Faculty and upper 
classes will welcome the new stu­
dents with characteristic hospitality. 
They can be assured of an exception­
al opportunity to enter into the spirit 
and the ideals of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology. The fifteen years 
which have elapsed since the charter 
class entered the institution have 
taught us how to give the best we 
have to those who are ready to re­
spond with ardent effort to educate 
themselves. During the summer we 
have, succeeded in contracting a num­
ber of able teachers to strengthen 
our instructional force, and we are 
confident that the curriculum which 
we have to offer has been carefully 
adjusted to meet the needs of all the 
students.Our graduates continue to bring in 
favorable comment wherever they
are employed, testifying to their qual­
ity as individual^ and to the earnest 
and thorough training which they 
have received here. The Alumnae 
Association lias been greatly strength­
ening its position and promises to 
give earnest support to the Trustees, 
to the Faculty and to the under­
graduates.With the harmonious and enthusi­
astic organization of all these forces 
the new year promises to outstrip all 
others in the results which can be 
attained.Let us all work together, co-oper­
ating for the good, and I have no 
hesitation in predicting that the year 
will become notable for its service to 
students and the important contribu­
tion we can make to the cause of 
higher education.ARTHUR A. IIAMERSCIILAG.
Fall Festival andSupremacy Contest
Here’s Your Chance Freshman Let’s See What You’ve Got.
Harold J. Iddings New Resident
Coach of Plaid Athletics
Iddings Was Former Teammate of Wally Steffens—Will Handle Basketball, Track and Freshman Football This Year.
Every one of the Freshmen has no 
doubt heard something or other about 
the Supremacy Contests and the Fall 
Festival, but few understand just 
what these ceremonies are and what 
they stand for. According to Tech 
traditions, the Sophomores have three 
days in which to give the new mem­
bers of the school a taste of the 
hardships of life. Whether the ob­
ject of this is to harden the victims 
for the Supremacy Contests or to 
cow them for the same event, is not 
quite clear. Nevertheless, on the third 
afternoon, Wednesday, a series of
atb.Wif v .'•vf la*.lil,-
the Plebes are given an opportunity 
to avenge themselves on the Sopho­
mores. If the Plebe contestants are 
successful in downing the upper class- 
meu all regulations arc to he de­
clared off at the Easter vacation, if 
not, they will be enforced until Quali­
fication! Day, which occurs about the 
middle of May. So there is some­
thing for the Freshmen to work for.
As for the Fall Festival, it is the
Judging from the past records of 
Harold J. Iddings in not only univer­
sity competition but coaching as well, 
Carnegie Tech is to be congratulated 
in signing him to act as resident 
coach for the coming collegiate year. 
It is very seldom that the same com­
bination of successes, both as a stu­
dent and as a coach, follow a man' 
through the number of years that 
has been the share of the new mentor.
Iddings was a teammate of Coach 
Walter Steffen at the time when the 
University of Chicago was very much 
in the limelight because of the num­
ber of stars who represented the Ma­
roon organization in football during 
the seasons of 1907 and 1908. He was 
placed on the mythical All-Western 
teams by practically every critic of 
the section during these periods for 
his remarkable work as right half­
back and also by Mr. Patterson in 
his Collier’s selection. His athletic 
activities, however, were not confined 
to only football, as he was on the 
Chicago basketball squad in 1905 and 
and 1906, playing with the Varsity 
the last year.
His baseball activity was confined 
to 1906, but in track Iddings partici­
pated for three years, where he spe­
cialized in the pole vault and lew 
hurdles. In 1907 he tied for first 
place in the pole vault at 11 feet, 8 
inches in the Western Intercollegiate 
meet. In the same year he broke the 
world’s indoor pole vault record of 11 
feet, 7% inches by clearing the bar 
at 11 feet, 7% inches in the Central 
Association Amateur Athletic Union 
championship games at Chicago.
Iddings’ contract at Carnegie Tech 
calls fof him to act as resident ccach 
throughout the year and generally 
oversee and supervise the athletic 
policies of the Plaid institution, act­
ing as coach of the Freshman foot­
ball squad, who this year for the first 
time will have a coach exclusively for 
their own instruction, to ccach the 
Varsity basketball team and in the 
spring assume charge of the Varsity 
track squad. While Steffen and Idd­
ings will work entirely in co-opera­
tion with each other, nevertheless 
there will be an excellent opportun­
ity to see. real and actual competition
between these former teammates and 
pupils of the famous Coach Stagg. 
These two men, whoso friendship was 
welded on the gridiron, are very close 
to one another and the competition 
in practice between the Varsity and 
second string men promises to be 
very interesting.
Made Great Record
The coaching experience of the new 
coach consists of a string of suc­
cesses. In 1909 and ’10 he was coach 
of football at Miami University in 
Oxford, O., where in his debut as 
coach he made a very favorable rec­
ord.
In 1910 he took charge of the bas­
ketball squad at State University of 
Kentucky, where he developed one of 
the best teams in their history. In 
1911 he went to Simpson College in 
Indianola, la., where he was athletic 
director, and during the several years 
he was there made some very notable 
successes. In 1912 and ’13 Simpson 
won all of its dual meets, and in 1913 
took second in the state college meet. 
In 1912 Simpson won the basketball 
championship of the state, defeating 
in t hat year the University of Iowa. 
In 1913 this success was almost re­
peated, Simpson being runner-up for 
state title and defeating the Nebr; 
ka five, which captured the Missouri 
Valley championship t hat year.
The year 1915 found Iddings at 
Yankton College, in Yankton, S. D., 
where he was also athletic director. 
In 1916-17 Iddings took over the foot­
ball and basketball teams at Otter- 
bein University in Westerville, O., in 
which year he produced the most suc­
cessful football team in the history 
of the school, defeating Ohio Wes­
leyan, Dennison and Heidelberg, the 
three strongest college teams in Ohio 
that year outside of Miami, which Ot- 
terbein did not meet. Last year Idd­
ings acted as assistant coach to his 
Alma Mater, helping Coach Stagg 
with the Maroon football team.
Coach Iddings comes to Carnegie 
Tech with a record of successful 
coaching and a reputation for being 
a real leadrr. In conjunction with 
Walter Steffen and Ilonus Wagner 
the sport year for Carnegie is very 
promising.
symbolizing, in pageant form, of the 
admittance on suffrance of the 
Plebes into participation in the privi­
leges offered in attending Tech. 
Crowds of Freshmen are needed for 
the mobs of Indians used in the 
Pageant, and all who are in any way 
interested in plays or pageantry, 
whether or not they are entered in 
that line of work, are urged to come 
out when the call comes for volun­
teers to take the part of Indians. The 
rehearsals will take up a great deal 
of the time which might otherwiso 
be much less onjoyably spent, as tho 
Plebes will have found out hv Mu» ni! tins issue "el' the Tartan is in 
their hands.After the Festival the Plebe Bon­
fire will bo lit and tho eats which 
the Sophomores and upper classmen 
pass out to the Freshmen will be 
served. This event marks the end 
of the first period of “hazing,” if it 
may be called that, which the Plobes 
will got, and as such should bo of 
great interest to those most closely 
concerned.
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Sept. 27, 1920.
To the Class of 192-1:
Tho Student Council of the Car- 
nogio Institute of Technology is the 
main student governing body of the 
school. It handles all nony.ithlotic 
activities which are not undtr the 
control of the Student Activities’ 
Board. The Plebe “Bible” contains 
tho constitution and by-laws of tho 
Council. The actions of tho Council 
are printed in the Tartan, and it is 
your duty as loyal Tech men and 
women to keep informed on these 
matters in order to be an intelligent 
participant in student affairs. By 
this practice you will help the educa­
tion with which you are to handle 
student affairs in three years.
The Council is in charge of the 
ceremonies which occur during the 
first week of school and which are 
traditions to be handed to you. Com­
mittees have been appointed to care 
for the different phases. It is up to 
every student, upper classmen and 
Plebes alike to co-operate with the 
committeemen, who will wear coun­
cil committee insignia, and to aid 
them in their work.
H. G. NICIIOL, JR., 
Pres. Student Council.
ÍG.E TENNIS CLUB
Membership in the Carnegie Tennis 
Club, with its courts on the Campus 
is open to any duly registered studen' 
i nthe Instittue. The procedure for 
enrollment consists in paying the re­
quired fee of $2 per college year, al 
the office of the cashier in the Cen­
tral Building. On payment of this 
fee a membership card is issued, and 
on payment of a deposit of one dollar 
a key to the courts will be issued, The 
deposit is refunded upon the return of 
the key.The courts are under the direction 
of the Department of Physical Edu 
cation of the Division of Academic 
Studeis.Plans are under way to hold a Ten­
nis Tournament during October, an­
nouncement concerning which will 
be made later.
FOOTBALL OUTLOOK BY 
FR/NK H. HARREN
Carnegie Tech will have a' good 
representative football team this fall, 
which, although it may not come 
through tin entirely successful season 
because of the fact that its opponents 
this year will have unusually strong 
teams, will from present observations 
be u better outfit than tho team which 
ordinarily represents the Plaid Insti­
tution.It must not be forgotten, however, 
that Coach Walter Steffen is up 
against the problem of developing a 
team out of almost green material. 
The back field particularly has caused 
considerable speculation, due to the 
fact that every one of the regulars of 
last year, Loomis, Fletcher, Baldwin, 
and Phil Marshall are missing. Mar­
shall and Baldwin graduated. Loomis 
was unable to return because of the 
death of his father, and Fletcher has 
gone into business. Coach Steffen, 
however, has some comfort in the 
fact that he will have quite a large 
veteran line, which with some very 
likely new material may possibly 
show some improvement on the line 
of last year.Coach Steffen will be directly as­
sisted by E. A. Early who will be re­
membered by the followers of Car­
negie Tech as being the fullback who 
caught Sunny Kessner’s forward pass 
over the Pitt goal line in 1915. Early 
has the distinction of being the first 
Tech man to score against Pitt, as 
well as that of having won his varsity 
letter in the shortest time on record.
Burt Munhall, as in the past, will 
continue to be trainer and as such has 
made a very definite place for him­
self in the hearts of all Tech athletes. 
The camp was in direct charge of 
Student Manager Paul (Cy) Unzieker 
of Hamilton, Ohio. Among other men 
who took an active interest in the camp were Frank Eyrnan, former 
physical director, and Dr. Wm. L. 
Marks, who acted as the camp physi ­
cian.Tech admirers and followers had 
an ideal opportunity to look over the 
material at camp on the occasion of 
the Alumnae corn roast, which was, 
held there on Saturday, September 18.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.
SHO^ Sarimt
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Edtför-in-Chicf..................................................................................Lawrence Pfujuin
JMione Hazel 0422
Business Manager..................................................................................Dow A. Sillers
Schcnlcy 9211
EDITORIAL STAFFAthletic Editor
Managing Editor 
William 1). Hall
Fred L. Knowles
School Editors
Assistant Managing EditorM. M. h................Margaret .1. GriH’en
.J. T. AmesBUSINESS STAFF
News Editor ,Circulation Manager
.J. K. YV. Macai pint;William Obenour
The Editor-in-Chiei.' is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
uring Editor for tin* make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay iti delivery of this paper or change of address should he reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all occunications of Student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4 :30 P. M. Fridays. /
LET’S GO!
Doesn’t it seem great to get back to the old campus again, no matter 
how fine a vacation you have had? Isn't it a grand an’ glorious Jeelin’ 
to grab the hands of all the fellows you knew last year and the years 
before'/ I’ll say it is!And isn’t it great to sec all the new green material just waiting to 
be given a taste of what the trials and tribulations of college life really 
mean?XtM, and isn’t it great to get here for the first time and to watch the 
old men rushing around and greeting old friends? And to know that next 
year and the year after you will be just as much at home here as they 
are now?It is great to come back to a place where your heart is. It is fine to
be able to feel that you count for something to the school, as well as that
it counts for something to you.And that last is just the point/ Unless you amount to something to 
the school you cannot expect to get the full benefit of what the school can 
do for you and be to you. In order to receive the most from an invest­
ment, we must put our most and best into it.All this is merely a preamble. The real subject is: Freshmen, get into 
activities. You are interested in some line or other. If it is literacy or 
business, the publications want you. If it is athletics, the Plaid teams are 
waiting tfor you. You can find your place. There’s one for every man if 
he only is wise enough to realize how rich the returns from anything he
puts in will be in years to come. Make up your mind that Tech is going
to be proud of you, and it is certain that you are going to be proud of Tech. 
The school is you in the greater sense. Make it big and fine and “full of 
pep." I/et’s go!
<) V V I C I A L A N N 0 U N C E M E N T S 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF ALL-DAY STUDENTS
The first General Assembly for J020-21 will be held at 10:110 Wednes­
day morning, September 29, in Carnegie Music Hall. Every student is 
expected to bo present. President Hamerschlag will welcome the new stu 
dents at this meeting and will bring to the attention of the upper classmen 
such announcements for the new year as will be of interest to them. After
fWnif.i in matters concerning stu-tlie President's lulu Hie meeting ivm ......................................dont activities. THOMAS S. BAKER, Secretary.
NOTICE TO IKIiEGULAK STUDENTS, DIV. OF SCI. AND ENG.
By action of the faculty, all Sophomore, Junior and Senior irregular
students must arrange their schedules in consf 
Department (or his representative) iri which 
No irregular schedules for upper classmen wilj 
Oilice of the Director.
Irregular Freshmen should report to the 
Irregular Freshmen carrying one or more U 
for which they are registered, report to their 
Two copies of each schedule approved by 
in the Office of the Director within ten da\ 
in any quarter.
Students who fail to present schedules co 
the ten days mentioned will be <*xcltidcd fnl 
Sept. 21, 1020.
.ie Head of the 
are registered. 
:o or issued by the
\s Office as formerly, 
subjects of the course 
/lent head, 
ep'ailment must be filed 
r the opening of school
rsigned by this oilice within 
classes.
W. E. MOTT, Director.
MEETING FOR ALL WOMEN STUDENTS 
There will be a meeting of the women students of all Divisions in the 
Theater of the Arts Building-at J.:lo P. M. Thursday, September 30, to 
meet the Iir-an of Women. THOMAS S. BAKER, Secretary.
INFORMAL MEETING FOR FRESHMEN—MEN 
There will be an informal meeting of the Freshmen, men, of all Divi­
sions, in the Carnegie Union at 4:80 Monday afternoon, September 27. The 
Dean of Men and the President of the Student Council will give to the 
Freshmen such information concerning student activities as it is necessary 
for them to have for the first week of the college year. As the meeting is 
to be only 80 minutes lone:, it is urgently requested that every Freshman 
oe in the hall promptly at 4:80. A. W. TARBELL, Dean of Men.
INFORMAL MEETING FOR FRESHMEN—WOMEN 
There will be an informal meeting of the Freshmen, women, of all 
Divisions, in the Library (the Hut) at 4:80 Monday afternoon, September 27. 
The Dean of Women and .student representatives of the various Divisions 
will speak. LAURA W. L. SCALES. Dean of Women.
To Those Using Employment Service:
Inasmuch as this employment service is free to you and maintained at 
considerable expense to the Carnegie Institute of Technology, it is only 
logical for the trustees and administration to expect reasonable returns ori 
this investment of funds, these returns to be measured by the amount of 
work accomplished by the Bureau. You should follow up and report on all 
leads given you by the Bureau for the following obvious reasons and make follow-up report at once:
COST PER MAN PLACED. You cannot expect the administration to 
continue this service il the reports show The cost per man placed as much 
as three times the actual cost, which is due to only about one-third of the men who are placed reporting.
'I HE NUMBER OF MEN PLACED. The more men we are able to 
place the more extensively will our Bureau become known and the more 
desirable for the employers to use this service in securing men. Drop us 
a line, if you are located. You may hear of other desirable positions which might interest some Tech man.
SERVICE TO EMPLOYER is impaired or made impossible if you do 
not follow up a lead and report the outcome, the Bureau, thereby, losing efficiency, and in addition, getting a bad name.
SERVICE .1.0 IIIE APPLICANTS is impossible if no reports are made. 
A man may keep us from recommending another applicant bv not following up a lead g;ven and reporting the outcome.
CO-OPERATION will help the Bureau in selecting the opening of real 
value. A man reporting an unsatisfactory opening saves us the time of recommending other men and helps protect our applicants.
Co-operate now and help make the Alumni-Student Placement Bureau 
a permanent and efficient service to the graduates and former students of Carnegie Tech. Yours for Tech,
G. L. TILBROOK, In Charge.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Below is given a financial statement of the Student Activities Board, 
Rowing receipts and expenditures from October 1, 1919, to September
Out of the general fee paid by the students during 1919-20, the Insti­
tute appropriated $4,171.52 to the Board of Student Activities. This amount 
was requested by the Board and was based on a budget prepared in May, 
1919, as representing the amount needed to finance the deficit which always occurs between the income and outgo of certain activities.
The figures below may not cover the business of an activity for its 
entire season, but only the receipts and expenditures for the above-named
OAKLAND METHODIST 
CHURCH
Rev. R. EMORY BEETHAM, D. D., Minister 
10:00 Sunday School; Classes for Students.
11:00 Morning Worship.
6:00 Vagabond Club; Supper Luncheon and inter­
esting meeting of young people.
8:00 Evening Service with a time of social greet­
ing afterward.
GOOD MUSIC; HELPFUL PREACHING; FRIENDS.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1920.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant
Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. 
and 8:00 P. M.College Men’s Bible Class at 10:00, led 
by Dr. Calvin.All Students Genuinely Welcomed.
«:* * •!> * * * * * * ** * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
* fBELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister
Preaching Service 11 and 8.? Sunday school at 10.**• Christian Endeavor at 7.
? We want the Tech boys to at*- J tend our services and learn to i, know us as the congregation of“Friendly People". A hearty wel- •$. come awaits you. ji*
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masees: 0:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M.
Pew 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Students.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M.and 8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EÄTS AND PRICES
CAN’T BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
i»«-, i ou ;
RECEIPTSBalance, October 1, 1 i) 11)..................................................................................§ 766.31
Appropriations from Institute....................................................................... 4,171.52
Payment of Loans.......................................................................................... 553 00
Interest on Bonds.............................................................................................. 85.00
Carnegie Union—Rentals ............................................................................. 387.00
Men’s Musical Clubs....’...................................................... lanini
(¡Iris’ Musical Clubs.................................
li)li) Thistle ........................................
Tartan—1010-1020 .........................
Miscellaneous ........................................
EXP KN 1)1
Studenti Activities l'’und-(Lcians, , A;
$9,520.84PURES
ipropriations, In signa. Fall
Carnegie Union Attendant.....................
C. 1. T. Band......................................
Men’s Musical Clubs.......................
(.¡Iris’ Musical Clubs...........................
1011) Thistle ....................................
Choral Club- Claim from 1016.............................................................. 041.87
..................................................... 70.22
1021 Thistle ..............................
1
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister
SERVICES:Sunday School—9:45 A. M. Morning Worship—11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for stu­dents, 15c, at 6 o’clock.Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermon for Head and Heart.A cordial welcome to all students.
FORBES BUILDING BAHBEK SHOP 
John Cicero, Prop.
Facial and Scalp Masage and Children’s 
Hair Cutting Our Specialties
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
pl|||llllllllllllllll!llilllllllllllll!lllll!lllll
f! TRANSITS AND LEVELS
£ ALL SUPPLIES FOR THEu DRAFTING ROOM
3617 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Phone Schcnlcy 9233 Pittsburgh, Pa.
IFCH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Nearest and Best Laundry ‘ 
Agency
^ii:iiiiiniiiiinuiiiiiingiiiniuiimiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiwiiniiiiiiiiiraiiininiiiiiniiiiiiMnii%
So|rt. 2i, mao.
$9,529.S 
C. B. SCHMIDT, 
Treasurer Board of Student Activities.
Schenlcy 9120
llllllllllllllllllllll
THE KREMLIN, MOSCOW
cJlfost of the famous buildings of the world 
me equipped with Otis Elevators
T,UK k'RF.MI.IN la the citadel of Moscow. The walla 
of the trinncul.tr enclosure were built in the year that 
Columbus disioveieil America. Much ot the history of 
Russia a dark tale of intrigue, mystery and bloodshed— 
was enacted in the Kremlin buildings.
The present CJrrat I'alace dates bad; only to Napoleon's 
day, lor hU »»lillei* burned tlie old palace. There are two 
Otis Automatic I'ush Hutton tth-vamrs In the Great Palace. 
There is »mother Otis Klevalor in the Nicholas Palace. 
This is signinrant of the world-wide »cope ot Otis activl- 
tvii From the fust crude hydraulic elevator# to the mod­
ern miracle of automatic vertical transportation, Otis has 
led the way and even now is continually developing new 
and better methods and machinery.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
Completed Schedule for Car- 
ncgie Tech’s Gridiron 
Warriors.
October 2 — Yale University 1 at New Haven.
October 9—Westminster Col- f§ lege at home.
October 16—Grove City Col- j§ lege at home.
October 23—Cincinnati Uni- i versity at home.
October 30—Lehigh Univer- J 
sity at South Bethlehem.
November 6—Allegheny Col- 1 lege at home.
November 13—Bethany Col- j§ lege Wheeling.
November 20 — Washington g 
and Jefferson College at home. 8 m
lllllllllll!lll9l!IIIUIIIIIIIIIIl!IIIIIILi|ll!lll9aiü
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. Warner, Prop.
“Oakland's Most Popuar Eating Place”
114-116-118 Atwood St., Pittsburgh, Pa
“Dutch1' Henderson.
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day 
about the large number of her 
cubs.
“How many cubs do you bring 
into the world at one time?" she 
asked the LIONESS
“Only ONEV'replied the Lioness
— " kut il's a LION I "
MURADS COST 20 CENTS 
FOR A BOX OF 10
BUT THEY’RE MURADS
MURADS would be lower 
priced if wo left out all or part of 
the 100'-. Turkish tobaccos of the 
purest and best varieties grown—• 
or if we substituted inferior grades 
of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldn’t be MURADS 
-—they’d only be Foxes I
"Judge for Yourself—! "
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Be& Meals at reasonable prices
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
Engineers’ Equipment,- Instru­ments of Precision, Blue Print and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
12C SIXTH STREET
| WHITE OVERALLS |
and t
JACKETS f I For the STUDENTS f
j; AT LOW COST PRICES % 
j; AT *
t HEIMERT’S 1
j; MEN’S HATTER %i; and FURNISHER |
l- 3614 FORBES AVE. J
| IROQUOIS BLOCK *
| NEXT TO f
| OAKLAND POST OFFICE |
\V*c call special attention to Murad 20s in Tin Boxes
JjrÍifrtn tntlin 4 AM.-n t/ IS,' Cnldf Turki‘MÍS.ií£S!BJ
IF YOUR FOUNTAIN PEN
is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfac­
tory pen or eversharp pencil, station­
ery, dance programs, favors, special 
felt goods or Tech recognition pins, 
call at
-_j-TírÑGER l SHOp\<“3® , PE:NS REIPAIREOp P ) L. Jp».flrl1 a a r APE
BAND REHEARSAL 
Tuesday Sept. 28 
5:00 P. M., Room 150
ARTS BUILDING
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
ENUSPENCILS
'U’OR the student or prof.» -*- the superb VENUS out­rivals all for perfect pencil WQrk. 17 black degrees and 3 copying.
American Lead

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 1920TTTTTTTEETTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT ECCC CC-YA -LG-LMa . page three.
Carnegie Tech Gridiron Warriors 
Prepared for Successful Season
Veteran Line Assured—Backfield Material Developing—Lloyd Comfort, Harris­burg Tech Star Is the Big “Find”
Capt.‘Red” Godden Shifted fromEnd to Backfield Position
“Well, they scared ’em a lot even 
if they lost,” was the remark you 
heard last year when Tech lost, but 
Plaid athletics have changed so much 
since last fall that this year’s re­
marks will be something like this*, 
“They were scared, they lost before 
they came on the field,” after Tech 
has downed some highly-touted oppo­
nent. The Tartan football team, this 
fall, is not of championship caliber, 
or near it, but it is better than last 
year’s ’squad and will uphold Car­
negie Tech’s standards for a hard, 
scrappy, to-the-last-do-we-stick fight.
The training camp at Glencairan 
has been going since Sept. 13, and 
Coach Walter Steffen. All-American 
quarterback at the University of Chi­
cago during his playing days, and 
Tech’s coach since 1914, is back on 
the job and he has a good bunch of 
material to pick his varsity and first 
string subs from. In fact, he already 
has cut his squad down to working 
proportions and has a good idea of 
where he stands, although it will 
take the first game or two to deter­
mine just how good his combination really is.
The Tech backfield is gone. Loomis, 
Fletcher, Baldwin and Phil Marshall, 
the quartet of regulars, all are among 
the missing. Marshall and Baldwin 
graduated. Loomis’ father died and 
he was unable to return, and Fletcher 
was not able to be back. However, 
to make up for these losses, Stefiins 
will bo able to show virtually a vet­
eran line, with possibly some improve­
ments, and his new backfield material is good.
The line is one thing that is sure. 
Lloyd Comfort, former Harrisburg 
Tech star, recording 195 pounds on 
the weighing machine, is fast and is 
a good kicker. He will undoubtedly 
be seen in the left tackle berth and 
will probably take care of the kick- 
offs and booting at goals. Dent Moon, 
last year’s Varsity man and former 
Grove City man, is stationed at the 
other tackle and will do most of 
Tech’s punting. McCarty, of Wash­
ington High, (5 feet, 1 inch tall, pack­
ing 175 pounds, and Duffy are prom­
ising recruits for the tackle job.
Henderson, Rosenbloom and Griffin 
are fighting for positions as guards. 
Rosenbloom comes from Bucknell 
University, has had a lot of experi­
ence and should be cn the Varsity. Iiendc-rson is from last year’s team, 
and there will have to be some fight­
ing to oust him from his position, 
altho Griflin, from last year’s phebe 
team, is showing up good and will 
keep Henderson on his toes. Hugh 
Sprinkle, frcm the University of 
Missouri, standing (5 feet, 2 inches 
tall and tipping the scales at 210 
pounds, lacks experience, but you’ll 
hear from him before the season is 
over. Zelt, of Washington High, is 
also a competitor for a guard posi­
tion. "•
A1 Irwin, the lightest man on the 
team, is back at his old job as center 
and it looks as if he was there 
stay. A1 is a great fighter and 
had lots of experience. McClean, 
guard last year, and Whittmer, 
sity end, will occupy the wing posi­
tions on the Plaid team and they are 
well taken care of. Temmel, Schen- 
ley High, will be on the squad for 
an end position. Taylor from Sharon, 
and Williams, from last year’s 
plebes, are other end possibilities.
Leading the team and playing a 
half will be found Capt. Red Godden. 
Godden played an end last year, but 
the lack of backfield material caused 
the Tech mentor to shift the Plaid 
captain to a halfback position. “Red” 
will play a stellar game wherever he 
is. Robertson and Buehler, both from 
last year’s Allegheny High team, will 
be seen in the backfield. Chester 
Brumbaugh, a plebe from last year 
at present holds claim to the fullback 
position. Frank Ross, another lad 
from Schenley; Warrick, from West­
minster College, and Pittman, from 
Sterling, 111.; Snyder, of Thiel Col­
lege; Wilson, from South High, along 
with Bloom, quarterback in 1917; 
Roger Marshall, brother of Phil Mar­
shall, and Anderson, phebe captain of 
last year’s team, are candidates for backfield positions.
The other players who started out 
on the large squad in training at 
Camp Louise Carnegie here have been 
lopped off by Coach Steffen and will 
make up the reserve or freshman 
team, which will play a schedule of 
its own, which includes games with 
Kiski, Mercersburg Academy, Erie 
an Monessen High Schools and 
Beliefonte Academy. Harold I. Idd- 
ings, an old teammate of Steffen’s at 
Chicago, will coach this team, and 
any of the players on it who show 
sufficient improvement will be pro­
moted to the Varsity, so that it will 
be almost impossible for any high- 
grade talent to be overlooked.
The Varsity schedule includes eight 
games and is a strong one. For the |
first time in a number of years the 
University of Pittsburgh is not 
played at Forbes Field in the season’s 
finale. However, to take the place of 
this feature, • Tech has scheduled 
Wash.-Jeff at home for the windup, 
the Saturday before Thanksgiving 
Day. The Yale game opening the 
campaign is not a new stunt for the Plaid.
The squad will break camp next 
Friday evening; or Saturday morning 
to return to Pittsburgh for the open 
ing of the school term next week. A1 
most two full weeks of work will 
have been gotten in here by that time.
The camp is an ideal one for con­
ditioning work. The players are put 
up at an old mansion house and the 
playing field is just a few minutes’ 
walk away from the showers. In ad­
dition to Assistant Coach Iddings. 
Coach Steffen has been aided by 
Frank Eyman, former physical direc­
tor of Tech, and Earley, halfback of 
a few seasons ago, who will help in 
the coaching throughout the season. 
Bert Munhall is trainer again, and 
Paul (Cy) Unzicker, of Hamilton, O., 
is student manager and in charge of 
the camp. Frank Haaren, the live- 
wire new graduate manager, who is 
keeping things hopping in the school’s 
athletics, was there for a week, but 
has returned to Pittsburgh to prepare 
for the coming of the squad.
Sunny Kessner, Tech’s most bril­
liant quarterback; McFeaters, tackle 
and captain of the 1917 outfit, and 
other old players, have visited the 
camp to look it over and have been 
impressed with the way things shape up.
Athletic Comments
• The spirit and enthusiasm of the student body last spring was the best 
in the history of the school. Has the feeling increased or waned since then? 
Anyhow—the team that is leaving Friday afternoon should have a big send- 
off—something that will show the new men that we are behind them thru 
thick and thin and to reassure the old men that we are with them as we were last spring.
If nothing has been planned, we hope that the student leaders will get 
things in shape and give the football team a send-off that they'll remember even after the Yale game has been fought
HAROLD J. IDDINGS
NEW PRESIDENT COACH
OF PLAID ATHLETES
We all believe in Carnegie Tech and its future. From what we see, Tech 
is on the right track, athletically, and where we’ll land we know not, but 
we hope our ambitions are not far-fetched. While we are young and doing 
our utmost, we are always glad to hear from outsiders, and we appreciate 
anything they may say about us. The following was written by Florent Gibson, Sporting Editor of the Pittsburgh Post:
Recently at the Lincoln Club the athletes who have been making quite 
a splash in sports for Carnegie Tech this spring, along with members of 
the Athletic Council and interested members from the Faculty, had a little 
party. It was just a little family group, except for the newspaper men 
there, of whom I was one. And. as every outsider must feel at a family 
gathering, no matter how kindly the effort to put him at his ease, still we 
were outsiders. No, I’m not criticising. It wasn’t the fault of the Tech 
fellows. You see, we’uns didn’t go to Tech, and not all of the courteous 
effort of.our hosts could mak*i up our own deficiencies. We didn’t belong.
But I got an insight into Tech ways at that little party that explains 
to me a lot. I went out for a news story, and brought back to the otfice a 
lesson and an understanding. And “I’ll tell the world,” after being at that 
party, at which I should not have been, that the Tartan is on the right track, athletically.
Usually the talk of “sport for sport’s sake” comes from a school or 
group that hasn’t been very successful athletically. And I’ve regarded it 
as savoring, not altogether, but partly, of “the bunk.” But Tech had a suc­
cessful spring in sports that was beyond their wildest dreams. In track, 
tennis and baseball they just about cleaned up. And at the party, among
themselves, they were talking, not the success they had, but the fun they 
had, and plans for a brilliant future in which more Tech men and still 
more Tech men, embracing every man who attended school, if possible, wouldhave fun in —i—n~________0 .iimh nuu cn.tt:iiut:
have fun in athletics. Incidentally, they might have success in competitive 
athletics. It is a goal greatly to be desired. But it does’nt mean so much —it’s not the sole aim and intention of athletics at Tech.
But the development of a generous spirit of competition, mutual admira­tion, appreciation of the good qualities of others and attainment of the 
best in themselves, and, above all. to play the game for the game’s sake 
in all sportsmanship and kindness, seem to be the Carnegie Tech spirit that is and is to be.
The Tech plan is the co-operation of students, faculties and alumni for 
the betterment of athletics and athletes, for the broadening of activities, 
and for the furthering of the interests of the school, not in competition with other schools, but in a fine spirit of emulation and mutual esteem.
And I dare say that we outsiders who foregathered with the Techites all caught the Carnegie Tech idea.
Our football team leaves for New Haven Friday afternoon. There will probably be not more than eight old men on the squad—the rest are new to Tech and Tech is new to them.
Track, Baseball and Tennis
Squads Honored at Banquet
Hiller Elected Captain of Track Team—Ray Doherty Will Lead the Baseball Nine— Johnny Harkness the Tennis Squad.
hidings Was Former Teammate of 
Wally Steffen—Will Handle Bas­
ketball, Track and Freshman Foot­
ball at Tech This Year
Wally Steffens—All 
American Q. B.— 
1908. Tech coach since 1914.
Al — I rwin — the 
lightest man on the 
team and a great 
scrapper.
“Deut” Moon—Left 
tackle will do Tech 
punting this year.
Celebrating the most successful 
athletic season in the history of the 
institution, undergraduates, alumni 
and members of the faculty, more 
than one hundred of them, enjoyed 
a banquet at the Lincoln Club the 
night of June 20.
Carnegie Tech spirit was rampant 
—there were cheers for the speakers, 
snappy talks by enthusiastic team 
captains and managers and the pres­
entation of cups to every member of 
the best track team ever turned out 
by the wearers of the Plaid.
Joint Affair
The banquet was a joint affair in 
honor of the baseball, track and ten­
nis squads. Frank II. Haaren, grad­
uate manager of athletics, was the 
toastmaster, and he batted well over 
.300 for the evening. The affair was 
a big success, especially the early 
initiation extended to members of the 
Fourth Estate to the Turtle Club, but 
that is something different.
“Those who are in favor of resum­
ing athletic relations with Pitt when 
the proper time arrives please signify 
by saying ‘Aye,’ ” came like a thun­
der clap from a clear sky—the sen­
tence was uttered by Toastmaster 
Haaren, and ho was immediately 
greeted with a chorus of “Ayes.” 
“That makes it unanimous,” he re­
marked. “I am glad to have you fel­
lows go on record with this state­ment.”
The foregoing was the only refer­
ence made to the University of Pitts­
burgh during the evening, for it was 
distinctly a Carnegie Tech affair, and 
the Skibos have a way of doing things 
distinctly original.
During the past school year Car­
negie Tech has cleaned up in track, 
tennis and baseball—three fine teams 
having been developed. Ilonus Wag­
ner, dear to every Pittsburgh base­
ball fan, coached the nine, Col. John 
C. W. Brooks, the tennis team, and 
William J. Hazel, the track team.
President Hamersehlag was invited,, but was unable to be present. Dr. 
Thomas S. Baker was delegated to 
represent President Hamersehlag, but 
he, however, sent his regrets in the 
form of a letter congratulating the 
athletic teams upon their fine rec­
ords, urging the new athletic council 
to continue its good work and pledg­
ing his support at all times.
President Clarence Overend of the 
athlclic council made a corking good 
speech. He congratulated the mem • 
bers of the three winning teams, told 
them that the alumni was back of
did it well. As he jumped to his seat he felt around in his hip pocket for 
his old glove, just as thousands of 
fans have seen him do at Forbes 
Field, took a toe hold at the plate 
and then smashed the ball over the 
fence as follows:“I am proud of our baseball team. 
We were not beaten on our own 
grounds this season. I want all the 
credit to go to the boys and our cap­
tain. We lost a few games out of 
town, but gave ’em ;\ battle, and I 
am proud of ’em.1”
• Dean William Mott, in response to 
a toast, congratulated the winning 
teams and declared that he believed 
the faculty and athletic council 
should get together in an effort to 
work out a plan whereby a little more 
time could be provided for daily prac­
tice in all branches of sport. Dean 
Mott was also given a rousing vote 
of thanks by the gyrating cheer 
leader.
Dean Bossange, the next speaker, 
pleaded for a general athletic plan 
that would include the hollow-chested 
and round shoulder boys in college. 
He was answered by Toastmaster 
Haaren, who informed the company 
that problems of this sort would be 
threshed out in th; near future.
Dean J. T. Morris also placed his 
stamp of approval on athletics and 
urged for co-operation among faculty, 
student body and alumni.Colonel Brooks, coach of the cham­
pionship tennis team, which cleaned 
up hereabouts this spring, predicted 
that at some later day it would not 
surprise him if one or more members 
of the 1920 team sailed to England 
or took part in the famous Davis cup 
matches here in the Umted States. 
Colonel Brooks evidently thinks 
mighty well of his proteges.
The big event of the evening was 
the farewell speech of Coach Bill 
Hazel of the track team, who, by his 
own efforts, managed to obtain the 
necessary funds with which to buy 
silver cup prizos for every membor 
of the track team, a team that also 
cleaned up in dual meets this spring.
“I wanted the boys to take some­
thing homo with them to remember 
•ho 1920 track team,” was the way 
Hazel put it.
Coach Hazel leaves Carnegie Tech 
to accept a position next year with 
the Peokskill Military Academy at 
Poekskill, N. Y.Silver cups were given the track 
•earn members who won points, those 
who trained faithfully and others
FOOT BALL SQUAD AT CAMP LOUISE CARNEGIE
them to a finish and that great thing.; | who showed real college spirit. Cap­
tain Schmidt was given a gold watch 
by members of tho team, and also a 
cup for showing wonderful collogo 
spirit.
Other speakers included IOddio 
Hirsch, manager of the tennis team, 
who announced that Johnny Harkness 
had been elected captain for next 
year. Alex Druex, manager of tho 
baseball nine, who, after paying a 
high tribute to the coach and othors, 
told tho boys that Kay Doherty would 
lead the 1921 Plaid nine, and a fare­
well speech by President Ovorond.
TECH OPENS SEASON 
mu YULE OCT. 2
Reports from New Haven 
Indicate a Strong Team 
Representing Sons 
of Old Eli.
wore expected in the future. Cheor 
Leader, Gcod jumped from his seat, 
and order'd a blast of vocal fire­
works, with Overend on the sizzling end.
Shorty Miller, manager of the track 
team, paid a tribute to the Tech ath­
letes. commending them for their 
wonderful showing in going through 
an entire sea1 on without a defeat and 
announced that Harvey It. Hiller, of 
Attica, N. Y., had been elected cap­tain for the ccming year.
Honus Wagner, one of the greatest 
ball players the game has ever 
known, who coached tho best nine 
that has probably ever represented 
the Tartan, made a brief address and
Sitting: Fritz, Smith, Bloom, Meirkle, William, Capt. Red Godden, Parks, Greegs, Williams, McKean, Beryman, Lackwood Student Mt'r Cv 
ÍL^ACíeTV-Snee¿mg:‘rGr^ham» Rex< Conlf.?rt’ Henderson, Weirman, Baugh, Dillon, Stevenson, Hart, Rosenbloom, vZzhoc¿aZTon.^ Standing^Ab-Gibson, Taylor, Beuhler, McCarty, Schwab, Anderson, Temmel, Irwin, Wright, Kelly, Sprinkle, Long,Wally Steffens, coach; Warner, Moon, Marshall, Wilson, Grad. Mgr. Frank Haaren.’Kalibash,
The opening game of this year's 
football season takes Carnegie Tech 
pigskin warriors up to the Yale Bowl, 
at New Haven, on October 2 to com­
bat with the sons of Old Eli.
Coach Steffen is planning to take 
about 22 men, leaving Fridav after­
noon, October 1. This is the first 
test of the season, and Steffen will 
probably use as many men as pos­
sible. The Yale team this year, ac­
cording to all reports, is ore of the 
best in the hi°tory of the Blue and 
White school, Cant. Gallahan is play­
ing center nosition, and Acosta, 
Walker and Dickens are on the line. 
Aldrich, Murnhv. Lav, Webb. Kelly, 
Crane and French are backfield can­
didate from last year’s sciuad. Be­
sides these, Coarh Tad Jone« has a 
wealth of material to pick from in 
last season’s freshman snnad.
Tech's lineup to start the p-ame will 
nrobably be as follows: Left end, 
Whittmer; left tackle. TJovd Com­
fort: left gnanl, TTimrlo'-Qon: center, 
A1 Irwin: right, guard, Rosenbloom; 
ricrht tackle, Dent, Mtfon; rie-hf, end, 
McClean; nnarterba^k. Rnhortson; 
left half. Bnehler: riVht half. Cant. 
Godden; fullback. Brnmbauch. Cant. 
Gooden will rail signals ami do the forward passing. Moon will do the 
punting and Comfort wMI take care 
of the kickoff« a"'l (roals.
The last time Yale an/l Tech met 
Yale wai tho virtor. Both team# 
have undergone manv changes since 
then, but still too »^nch cannot he ex­
pected from the Skibos on Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOUR.THE TARTAN.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1920.
TECH ALUMNI NEWS ^
C. I. T. CLANS.
DIRECTORY OK MEMBERS 
This Directory in published for the convenience of alumni in the Clan 
Districts and only includes the members in the city proper, if your name 
does not appeal1 here, or if you know of an alumni member residing in any 
Clan District, write at once to the Alumni Executive Secretary. Change of 
addresses should be sent in at once.The membership of the Akron, Buffalo, Chicago and Cleveland Clans 
appear in this issue. Those of other cities will appear in following num­
bers of the Tartan.
Tech Alumni Frolic at Glencairn
Coach Steffen Stages Scrimmage for the Visitors—Marshmellow Roast and Dancing in Evening.
S. W. Adolfzen, S '15 
II, K. Alcorn, S'15 
II. K. Baker, S '20 
Sigmund Braverman, S '17 
E. L. Brueggemann, I '15 
E. ,7. Carlson, I 'JO 
li. W. Carlson, I '10 
L. L. Collins, S '15 
C. L. Curtice, Jr., S 
A. II. Good, A '14 
C. M. Griilin, I '13 
Miss Harriet Loewy, A '16 
L. E. Lora, I '20 
S. Z. Nichols, I'10 
C. 0. North, S '14 
R. D. Parsons, S '08 
Mrs. C. C. Roller, M '10 
(Frances B. Kempel)
R. J. Schmid, I 
A. C. Sprague, S r10 
Miss M. Virginia Stark, M 
M. R. Walton, S '09
J. 7. Barry, S
1). A. Curtis, S '17
Samuel Gilliard, S
T. ,7. Jendrasiak, S'20
Miss Amelia E. Lehman, M'14
E. F. Obert, S '18 
L. V. Plummer, S 
Robert Porter, S 
W. II. Rieger, S '08 
.7. F. Rozan, S
R. T. Townsend, 7 .20
G. A. Burnside, S'13 
P. A. Constantinides, S '18 
Miss Janet Dickson, M '09 
W. F. Ellison, S 
W. C. Fox, S '20 
.7. A. Garber, S'08 
C. E. Gilson, S '14
Israel Goldman, S '20 
.7. J. Kennedy, S'17 
Miss Frances Levenson, A '19 
Mrs. Griffith Lloyd, M'11 
(Sara M. Lindsey)
IT. P. Howard, S '10
J. M. Miller, I '10 
W. C. Miller, S '17
O. L. Moore, S '14 
W. L. Munk, S'll 
.7, B. Patterson, S '14 
Mrs. Edwin 11. Robison, M 
(!. E. Schoonoman, I 
P. D. Wersant, S’10
T. A. Wheelor, 1 
I<\ .7. Zacharla, Jr., S 
Mrs. G. W. Wright, M ’17 
(Agnes Wright)
Miss Anno K, Finney, P’20
10. R Archibald, 8 M,0 
I/. P. BiIotta, S 'J7
F. J. Brannon, S 
I). It. Chopra, H '17 
R. F. Cron, I ’13
(!. 10. Donlmrt, S
(,!. A. Mbollng, A M4
W. J. I-Vth, I '15
Miss Gladys R. Fleming, M ’111
11. I,. Fulmor, S 'M 
Marry Collin, S'18
' II. I-’. Gump, S’ll 
Miss Maudo C. Uainer^M'19 
K. c. Hanford, > ' 11 
Miss Dorothy Harlow, M '19 
Mrs. 11. F. Johnson, M’ll 
S. II. Jones, I. '17 
J. E. Kirk, S '16 
Mrs. lt. E. Lees, M '16 
(Mary N. Ride)
V. A. Lundy, I '11 
William Mazurie, I '17 
R. F. Miller, I '09 
M. J. Monahen, I ’12 
L. K. Morrow, I '13 
O. W. A. Oetting, S '10
Miss Martha O. Potter, M'19 
Howard Rigdon, S '12 
E. M. Sanborn, S 
Miss Eva Smill, M ’20 
II. C. Steadman, I 
Miss Lydia R. Toberg, M ’19 
W. A. Wälder, S '20 
L. B. Weidlein, S '09
L. K. Wildberg, S '15 
J. S. Wilson, S '09 
C. H. Zimmerman, S
L. L. Beekon, S’10- 
11. S. Braun, S '1(5 
Miss Doroth Davis, M ’.19 
II. M. Frazier, 1 
Miss Ruth A. Gubt.il, M ’15 
R. B. Hammond, S '09 
1). S. Hiller, S'
G. II. Jacobson, S '17 
II. G. Lamlcer, S M2 
NT. F. LeJeune, S’20 
V. P. Lewis, S
C. K. Little, S ’20 
II. A. Noel, S '10 
O. R. Olmsted, A '19 
II. W. Peebles, A'09 
E. C. Poffenberger, I 
S. L. Potts, S ’09 
E. S. Rooda, I 
A; Z. Shmina. I ’19
Akron Clan
20 Kent Street
-108 Carroll Street
392 Reed Avenue
000 Herberich Building
359 Hickory Street
205-0 Delaware Building
129 Mapledale Avenue
343 Wheeler Street
279 Park Street
Tho Campania, Park Street
834 Ruth Street
291 W. Market Street
Akron Electric (Jo.
1002 Johnston Street
527 Morning View, Goodyear Heights 
82 Atlas Street
*120 10. Exchange Avenue
M5 Bechtel Avenue 
185 Perkins Street 
¦101 West Market Street 
183 Dodge Avenue
Buffalo Clan
Hotel Touraine 
170 Maple Street 
797 Amherst Street 
20 Loeperc Street 
19 W. Mohawk Street 
45 W. Mohawk Street 
08 St. Paul Street 
75 Niagara Square 
Sizer Forge Co.
1178 Broadway 
22 Bidwell Parkway 
Chicago Clan
822 N. Dearborn Street 
2318 W. Madison Street 
1000 Hollywood Avenue 
1044 Surrtmerdale Avenue 
923 N. Kedvalo Avenue 
2948 Pine Grove Avenue 
Cure of Eagle Pitcher Lead Co., 208 
S. LaSalle Street 
(5511 Ellis Avenue 
3748 Wrightwood Avenue 
5930 S. Park Avenue
528 Diversey Parkway, North Hal 
stead Station.
Baker-Dunbar-Allen Sales Co., First 
National Bank Building 
0424 Kimbark Avenue 
Caro of Butler Hammer Mfg. Co., 323 
N. Michigan Avenuo 
4015 St. LawrenCo Avenue 
Caro Tate-Jones Co., Munondock Bldg 
•132 Peoples Gas Building 
Apt. 1, 1959 S. llamlin Avenuo 
4454 Magnolia Avenue 
c/o Sinclair Refining Co., Ill W.
Washington Street 
0532 Newgard Avenuo 
3032 N. Oakley Avenue 
1905 Sherman Avenue, Evanston
On Saturday, September 18, about 
a hundred and fifty visitors made the 
trip to the training ground of the 
football squad at Camp Louise Car­
negie. Among the visitors were in­
cluded President Hamersehlag, sever­
al of the directors of the various di­
visions, many faculty members, a few 
students and a largo proportion of 
alumni and their friends. Most of 
the Athletic Council members were 
present.
The reason for the trip was two­
fold: first, to attend a corn roast out­
ing held by the Pittsburgh Clan, and 
second, to inspect and encourage the 
football squad in training.
It was a most beautiful day and 
those who motored up (about twenty- 
five in number) enjoyed an ideal trip. 
The rest came up by train and were 
agreeably surprised when they found 
it stopped at Glencairn, thus avoiding 
the dusty walk back from Garver's 
Ferry.By four o'clock everybody was on 
the field, anxiously waiting for the 
time when scrimmage would begin. 
There was only a short wait until 
Coach Steffen lined up two teams and 
started play. Changes in the line-up 
were fast and many, and it was not
lOvanston Hotel, Evanston 
Cleveland Clan
10112 Euclid Avenue
Room 409, 423 lOuelid Avenuo
Suite 305, 5007 Euclid Avenuo
12017 St. Clair Avenue
1892 K. 73r(l Street
c o Cleveland Metal Products (Jo.
7805 Linwood Avenue 
1537 Westwood Street 
) 1539 10. 85th-Street
2535 Scranton Road 
280 Rockefeller Building 
13000 Garden Road, E. C.
,c-o League House, 2344 Prospect Ave. 
2072 Briarwood Rd., Cleveland Hts. 
2035 10. 90th Street 
LUO 10. 170th Street 
1845 Rosalind Avenue, 10.
1970 East 83rd Street 
2040 E. 90th Street
1821 Van Buron Road 
15401 Macauley Avenue 
2280 Bellefield Avenue 
12823 Speedway Overlook, E.
10735 Superior Street 
c-o Willard Storage Battery Co., 246 
j E. 131st Street 
2344 Prospect Avenuo 
7S10 Hough Avenue 
11809 Clifton Blvd.
1759 Delmont Avenue, E.
123S Guardian Building 
2341 Prospect Avenue 
0306 Hawthorne Avenue 
c-o Arthur G. McKee Co., 1301 Rocke­
feller Building 
c-o Glove Machine & Stamping Co. 
1229 W. 36th Street 
1450 Leader News Building 
Detroit Clan
Crescent Pump Co., 139 Beaubien St 
1222 Atkinson Avenue.
Liggett School, Stimson Place 
424 Trombly Avenuo 
(¡race Hospital 
07(5 Woodward Avenuo 
Dalstrom Metallic. Door Co., 855 Booli 
Bldg.
232 Glendale Avenuo 
1505 Holcomb Street 
237 Buena Vista Avenue, W.
254 IVtoskey Avenue
40 Martin Place
377 Cadillac Avenuo
723 Marlborough Avenuo
I-19 Park Boulevard
1008 Chamber of Commerce Bldg.
190 Pacific Avenue 
403 Lenox Avenue 
203 Twentieth Street
long until the spectators had an op­
portunity to see all the candidates in 
action. Without being over-confident, 
it can be truth fully said that every­
one was completely satisfied with the 
showing the boys made, and many 
alumni prophesied a wonderful year 
on the gridiron for Tech.
Supper was served in the open right 
in front of the Mansion House. The 
menu included boiled corn, hot roast­
ed weiner sandwiches, pickles, and 
coiFee.. The committee in charge of 
preparations stoutly maintain that at 
least five hundred persons must have 
eaten, judging by the amount of corn 
and weiners prepared.
At'dark a bonfire was lit and a 
marshmellow roast followed. There 
were plenty of candies to go round, 
and everybody had lots of fun toast­
ing them. Some of the burnt marsh­
mallows were not such pleasant eat­
ing, however.
After a lively dance in the Mansion 
House,, with a lone piano as the main­
spring of the music, the party broke 
up in time to catch the 10:30 P. M. 
train. All voted the afternoon well 
spent and solemnly swore to return 
when the annual event takes place 
next fall.
AN APPEAL
Dear Alumnus:
Here are some real facts for you:
THINK!!
DIVISION OF THE ARTS
138 have graduated from the Di­
vision of the Arts, excluding 23 grad­
uates of the class of 1920.
23 graduates are paid-up alumni 
members.
10.6% of graduates are paid-up 
members in the Alumni Association.
1,000 men and women have been 
registered in the Division of the Arts 
for a year or more and are eligible 
to associate membership in tho Alum­
ni Association.
07 former students are now asso­
ciate alumni members.
4.1% of former students are alumni 
members.
DIVISION OF INDUSTRIES
595 men have graduated from the 
Division of Industries, excluding 2‘! men in class of 1920.
02 graduates are paid-up alumni 
members.
10.4% of graduates are paid-up 
members in the Alumni Association.
3,800 men have been registered in 
the Division of Industries for a year 
oi‘ more and are eligible to associate 
membership in the Alumni Associa­
tion.
137 former students are now asso­
ciate alumni members.
3.0% of former students are alum­
ni members.
MARGARET MORRISON 
DIVISION
590 women have graduated from 
the Margaret Morrison Division, ex­
cluding 53 graduates of class of 1920.
190 graduates are paid-up alumni 
members.
• 33.2% of graduates are paid-up 
members in the Alumni Association.
400 women have been registered in 
the Margaret Morrison Division for 
a year or more and are eligible to 
associate membership in the Alumni 
Association.
24 former students are now asso­
ciate alumni members.
0% of former students are asso­
ciate alumni members.
DIVISION OF SCIENCE AND 
ENGINEERING
7(59 men have graduated from the 
Division of Science and Engineering, 
excluding 101 men in class of 1920.
FEATURING
KNOX HATS
because, down to the smallest ^ 
detail, they are the 
BEST MADE
We also have 
Stetson, Trimble and 
Connett Hats 
$5 to $20
Jageman & Spickert
6121 Penn Ave. East End
I OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
| TRANSFER COMPANY
§ Bell Phones 878 & 9169 Schenley 
P. & A. 1092-R
227 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
= H= Household Goods Moved, Stored, g 
Packed and Shipped
IlPlllllllllillllllilllllllH
« X X X X XXX***»
SKIBO INN I*--- :ji*Remodeled and Enlarged f.
CLEAN, |
WHOLESOME,
FOOD *ijiServed at be^l prices *
CIGARS CANDY I*
355 graduates are paid-up alumni 
members.
46.2% of graduates are paid-up' 
members in the Alumni Association.
3.400 men have been registered in 
the Division of Science and Engineer­
ing for a year or more and are elig­
ible to associate membership in the 
Alumni Association.
] 70 former students are now asso­
ciate alumni members.
5% of former students are alumni 
members.
ARE YOU BEHIND TECH, AS 
TECH IS BEHIND YOU?
ACT NOW! It’s up to you to 
change these figures.
THIS MEANS— •
Doing personal work at every op­
portunity.
Helping the alumni yourself!
Getting members who will help!
Sending good men to Tech!
Patronizing Tech men when pos­
sible!
K:-:ping the Alumni Office in­
formed of your address and po­
sition!
Joining the nearest Tech Clan!
PAYING YOUR DUES NOW!
The Tartan will be sent free to all 
paid-up alumni members if the pres­
ent plan carries. This plan for keep­
ing the alumni in closer touch with 
Tech is to be financed jointly by the 
Administration and Athletic Associa­
tion.
Yours very truly,
G. L. TILBROOK, 
Alumni Executive Sec.
THE SPIRIT OF HOME
The Oakland Community House is maintained by 
the Oakland Methodist Church for the purpose of 
giving a homelike welcome to every person but espe­
cially to the student away from home. Here is a 
chance to read or study, to rest or play, and always 
to find friends.
3904 FORBES ST.
¦f ¦ »T, * * »7. .7, .¡, *.»$> V »I« * * * »I« * ’I* ‘I* »I« V * V * *!• * * *1* V * * * *1* * *!• * * 'M* * *1* * £
C. I. T. TECHNICAL JOURNAL.
The C. I. T. Technical Journal will 
be published early in November. The 
staff had planned to have the first 
copy on the campus registration day 
but because it was impossible to get 
the staff together during the sum­
mer holidays a later date had to be 
arranged.
A subscription campaign is being 
carried on at present. Holders of re­
ceipts may exchange same for the 
regular subscription card. The price 
of the Journal remains the same, one dollar for four copies.
The Alumni had contributed a num­
ber of interesting articles and the 
Editor expects to be able to publish 
a paper which will meet the expecta­
tions of the students and make every­
one prouder of Carnegie Tech and 
its achievements.
Miss Jane Simpson, M *11
J. P. Warner, S ’18 
O. H. Weigold, S 'IS 
W. R. Williams, S '12 
J. L. Wilson, I ’11 
W. W. Wilson, S '17
C. R Austin, I '14
D. L. Blatter, I ’11 
W. J. Corbett, S '14 
W. K. Fawcett, S ’20
E. L. Hart, I
E. J. Iiedlund, I '10 
K. L. IOnnerth. S '18 
Miss Belle C. Lambing, M 
Mrs. F. F. Nagorslci, M ’09
(Ida Dymsia)
A. L. Nelson, I '20 
Ward Stalknecht, I 
II. R. Wallace, S ’08 
11. A. Weber, SM7
C. J. Bushong, 1 MB 
.1. R. Gauglor, S '19 
Mrs. Anna G. Green, M Ml 
Miss Kathryn M. Haag, M '16
F. ,1. Ha t’-an Ins
Miss Lu M. Hartman, M '15 
C. D. llasness, A M2 
Ritclüo Lawrio, Jr., S '11 
J. W. Phillips, A '17
C. L. Carroll, I 
J. J. Cavett, S '16
491 Hurlblew Street
c/o Turner Engineering Co., 136 W.
Larned Street 
723 Marlborough Avenue 
1205 Dime Bank Bldg.
440 Military Avenue 
S94 Woodward Avenue
Erie Clan
712 Commerce Blvd.
2136 Warfel Avenue
819 Chestnut Street
1234 West Ninth Street
1225 Holland Street
940 W. Sixth Street
819 W., Twenty-seventh Street
Marine Nat’l Bank
522 E. Tenth Street
621 Ms E. Twenty-fifth Street 
531 Y M. C. A.
East L Road
501 W. Twenty-ninth Street 
Harrisburg Clan
Central Construction Corporation 
8 Evergreen Street 
25 Union Trust Bldg.
223 MncJaw Street 
industrial Board, Keystone Bldg. 
22 ; Tr s' Bid iv.312 N. Second Street 
206 Market Street 
1408 Market Street 
Johastown C'an
220 Vino Street 
314 Morrell Place
DO YOU DANCE?
OANOINO LIMONI CLAM AND PfIIVATK
JA04UII’ IANOIN« AOADKMY 
ORAM ANO FORBII MIO. PHONE
ATTENTION STUDENTS j
Lab. Aprons - - $1.00 
Laundry Bags - $1.85
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
3012 FORBES STREET, COR. BOQUET
•V-X"X'wX-*X"X"X*X"X--X"X-X"X">r-X"X"X-w-X-X-*X,w‘
*O C H 9 S
Forbes and Atwood St., Oakland
SPECIAL 
MEN’S SHIRTS $2.00 
A good assortment of styles.
GOOD HOSIERY 
Black and all colors.
25c, 39c, 59c a pair
BLACK FOUR-IN-HAND TIES 
50c Each
BATTERY
Exi de”
SERVICE
IRON CI1Y ELECTRIC CO.!
Broad and Sheridan Ave, *•j*All Kinds of Batteries jjj 
Repaired and Recharged *
C. M. Stauft
3702 Forbes Street
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
| FRESHMEN J
Your White Overalls and Jumpers for 
Shop Work
GET THEM TODAY
From P. D. GOOD
Industries Bldg.
