The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 13 Carnegie Mellon University January 19,1988
IINSIDE
FEATURES...............Page 13
Good sex with Glickstein, foul weather 
friends, and forgotten Master Plans
SPORTS....................Page 24
Coleman hits 1,000 and Tartan basket­
ball update
photo by Eric W. Leuliette 
Members of the Society of Creative Anachronism venting frustrations on a Sunday 
afternoon.
Health Center Seeks Renovation Approval
The Battle Begins
Eleven Greek Brothers Plea Bargain
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tàrtan Staffwriter
Eleven fraternity members arrested in 
November’s raids on Pi Kappa Alpha 
(Pika) and Delta Tau Delta (DTD) fra­
ternities plea bargained and received 
reduced sentences at a hearing held 
December 7.
The charges against the eleven frater­
nity brothers were reduced to disorderly 
conduct in exchange for guilty pleas. 
While the original charges were misde­
meanors, disorderly conduct is a sum­
mary offense which University Attor­
ney Alvin Brannick compared to a driv­
ing ticket.
Each defendant was assessed a fine 
and court costs totalling $100. Pika 
president Evan Kaliner said that each 
house paid the fines for its own mem­
bers.
Last November 21 the police and 
Liquor Control Board (LCB) raided 
Pika and DTD fraternities. Eleven 
brothers of the two fraternities were 
arrested for selling alcohol to minors 
and selling alcohol without a licence. 
Most of those arrested had been collect- 
continued on page 3
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
If preliminary blueprints and budgets are 
Approved at this week’s meeting of University 
Planning’s Pre-planning Committee, Carne­
gie Mellon will be one step closer to a reno­
vated health care and counseling center facil­
ity.
The total renovations package, expected to 
cost about $ 150,000, is split in two phases. The 
first allocation of $11,000 was approved in 
late December and construction is slated to 
\lbegin at the end of January.
The second phase of renovations requires 
about $125,000 from university funds. The 
renovations must be approved by the Pre­
planning Committee before they can be con­
sidered by the Capital Allocations Board, of 
which President Richard M. Cyert is a mem­
ber.
“We have to have the renovations. The health 
Jteenter has a great staff and great services. Now 
we have a plan to make the facility even 
better,” said Braden Walter, Dean of Student 
Affairs.
“During the first phase we’ll add sinks— 
after all, you can’t run a health care facility if 
you can’t wash your hands—and walls to 
make a couple more examining rooms. The 
aesthetics aren’t lovely. We’ll help out with 
Vhose too.”
“It’s nothing fancy, just the basics,” said 
Anita Barkin, C.R.N.P. and Director of Stu­
dent Health Services. “Currently, there’s one 
sink and we have to wait in line to wash our 
hands before we can treat students. More ex­
amining rooms will also increase our effi­
ciency and decrease the students’ waiting 
time.”
The second phase of renovations calls for
New Rules Restrict Frat Parties
converting the current health center waiting 
room into examining rooms, bringing the total 
number of examining rooms to six.
The waiting room would move next door to 
a large room currently used for patient consul­
tations. Because that space is now shared be­
tween the health center and counseling center, 
improvements will be made in the current 
counseling center waiting room to maintain its 
operations.
A new health center bathroom, allergy labo­
ratory, and conference room are also planned.
The bulk of the approximately $125,000 
budget for the second phase of construction 
will be used for lighting and heating and air
conditioning systems.
“The more we do, the more student expecta­
tions rise. When students walk into a health 
care facility and see peeling ceiling paint and 
curtains falling off the windows, they question 
the care they receive,” said Barkin.
“The renovations will really benefit stu­
dents,” said Andy Robitshek, Student Govern­
ment President. “It’s important for students to 
let the administration know how important the 
health center is to them.”
There were over 11,000 visits to the health 
center in the 1986-1987 academic year. In the 
first six months of the 1987-1988 year, there 
were already 5,780 visits to the facility. Visits
to the University Counseling Center have also 
risen over the years.
Four years ago, the health center and coun­
seling center were moved from opposite ends 
of the campus into their Morewood E-tower 
location of 33,000 sq. feet, which used to 
house three student apartments. The past three 
years have seen a complete change and in­
crease in staff and an increase in services, 
ranging from allergy shots to a women’s 
health care program.
Health Center hours were recently increased 
on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8:30 am- 
7 pm, and on Saturdays from 11 am-2 pm.
“We've come a long way," Walter said.
Fire Damages 
Room in Scobell
Approximately 7 pm last Friday night, a fire 
broke out in a room on the basement level of 
Scobell Hall.
According to Carnegie Mellon's Depart­
ment of Public Relations, firemen from 
Oakland's Battalion Two responded to the 
fire.
No one was injured in the A-level fire. 
Though forty-five Scobell residents were 
evacuated from the building, most residents 
returned to their rooms by 7:20.
Public Relations believes that a cigarette 
thrown into a trash can started the fire.
The wastebasket, a bed. and suitcases were 
damaged. The room also suffered smoke 
damage.
Residents of Boss Hall played “Burning 
Down the House" as firemen pulled a smoking 
mattress out of Scobell’s front door.
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
The November raid on Pi Kappa Alpha 
(Pika) and Delta Tau Delta (DTD) fratemites 
has caused several major changes in how fra­
ternity parties will be run in the future.
Fraternity adviser Ron Campana has asked 
the fraternities to make their parties less overt. 
Fraternities \yill no longer be allowed to have 
lighted mixer signs or post advertisements for 
their parties in academic buildings.
Campana says that a fraternity bulletin board 
will be built, probably somewhere near Skibo 
and each fraternity and sorority will have a 
space to advertise their parties.
Alcohol will not be allowed outside the 
houses or on the porches. If people are caught 
drinking outside the houses both the individu­
als and the fraternities will be subject to uni­
versity fines. The details are still being ironed 
out but according to Pika president Evan Ka­
liner there will probably be a board of faculty 
members to hear appeals of fines.
Members of both Pika and DTD expressed 
the opinion that the raid will have a lasting 
effect on parties at all of the fraternities on 
campus. Kaliner and DTD social director Saul 
Kaplan said that their fraternities are not plan­
ning to have any charity parties this semester 
and may never have any again. Both said that 
they think their fraternities will try to find 
other ways to raise money for charity but 
neither one has any specific plans yet.
photo by Andy (iillespie
Under new rules, alcohol will no longer be allowed outside of fraternities’ parties, as in this 
file photo. Individuals found drinking outside the houses or on the fraternities’ porches 
will be fined.
Most of the fraternities will probably tighten 
the entrance policies at their parties. Kaliner 
says that Pika will start enforcing its guest list 
more and will be more stringent about check­
ing for college IDs.
“We [DTD] are going to have a very, very 
tight door. We are going to have everyone on 
the guest list show their ID. Every girl that
comes through the door, whether they are from 
CMU or outside has to show a college ID," 
said Kaplan.
Kaplan also cited the fact that officials some­
times use college women to infiltrate parties. 
He said that “We are going to have girls sign a 
statement that says they are not affiliated with 
any law enforcement agency.”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—January 19,1988
//Ä<v/MT«1AW) m
wwi ir mu/ «ir»
Israel Vows to Defy UN 
On Palestinian Issue
UNITED NATIONS (AP) — Israel accused 
the U.N. Security Council of meddling in its 
affairs and said it would defy a council vote 
urging it to allow four deported Palestinian 
activists to return home.
The resolution passed 14-0 yesterday, with 
the United States abstaining.
Israel deported to Lebanon four Palestinians 
accused of fomenting the unrest sweeping the 
occupied territories, the army said.
An army official said the four, all natives of 
the West Bank, were flown by helicopter to a 
mountain pass 1 1/2 miles north of Hasbaya in 
south Lebanon. The official spoke on the 
condition of anominity.
The military command said in a statement: 
“The deportees are among the leaders of the 
instigators and organizers of the disturbances 
in Judea and Samaria (the West Bank) in the 
past weeks.”
Five other Palestinians are appealing depor­
tation orders issued Jan. 3.
Israel deported the Palestinians on Wednes­
day. despite a Jan. 5 Security Council resolu­
tion opposing the expulsions. The United 
States voted in favor of that measure, its first 
vote against Israel in the council in six years.
Japanese Leader Ends 
First U.S. Visit
WASHINGTON (AP) — Japanese Prime 
Minister Noboru Takeshita met with Defense 
Secretary Frank Carlucci at the conclusion of 
a three-day visit in which Takeshita promised 
“dialogue and cooperation" with the United 
States.
Carlucci called on Takeshita at his hotel for 
an hour-long meeting that included discussion 
of Japan's decision to increase its annual sup­
port funds for the 60,000 U.S. troops based 
there to $500 million by 1990.
After the meeting, the Japanese leader and 
his delegation departed for Toronto. Canada.
Takeshita's visit, his first to Washington 
since taking office in November, was also 
marked by calls from legislators and trade 
officials for specific Japanese steps to reduce 
the trade imbalance with the U.S.
U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter 
said a Japanese proposal to open its public 
works programs to American bids falls short 
of Reagan administration demands, and the 
U.S. will consider retaliation if negotiations 
fail.
Troops Could Leave 
Afghanistan by May 1
MOSCOW (AP) — The Soviet Union could 
begin withdrawing its troops from Afghani­
stan by May 1 if U.N.-sponsored negotiations 
that resume next month end in agreement, 
Pravda said last week.
The report in the Communist Party daily 
newspaper was the latest indication from the 
Soviet leadership that it is seeking to end its 
military presence in Afghanistan by the end of 
the year.
The Kremlin sent troops into its southern 
neighbor in December 1979 to help the pro- 
Moscow government battle a guerrilla insur­
gency. An estimated 115,000 Soviet soldiers 
remain there.
Negotiations between Afghanistan and Paki­
stan, where most of the U.S.-backed Moslem 
guerrillas are based, are scheduled to resume 
in Geneva next month under United Nations 
auspices.
According t6 the Soviets, documents pre­
pared for those talks require the Soviet Union 
to begin its withdrawal 60 days after a settle­
ment is achieved. The United States, in turn, 
would be bound to cut off military aid to the 
insurgents.
“If the Geneva agreements are successfully 
signed by March 1 (and the Afghan side, 
judging by everything, intends to strive for 
this), then May 1 could become the starting 
date for the withdrawal,” Pravda said.
S. Korea Links Plane 
Bombing to N. Korea
WASHINGTON (DJ) — South Korea has 
told the U.S. it is not planning military retali­
ation against North Korea despite evidence 
linking the bombing of a South Korean airliner 
to the Pyongyang government, a State Depart­
ment official said.
South Korean Defense Minister Chung Ho- 
yong had ordered all military units on alert and 
raised the possibility of retaliatory measures 
after a woman linked to the destruction of the 
plane confessed she was a North Korean 
agent.
The State Department official, who insisted 
on anonymity, said Chung’s statement was 
issued for internal reasons and that no military 
action against the north is being contemplated.
Later, South Korean officials, speaking pri­
vately, confirmed that no military action was 
likely.
At the White House, presidential spokes­
man Marlin Fitzwater said the confession by 
Kim Hyon Hui on Korean television was 
supported by independent analysis of the crash 
by the United States.
He said the United States would consult 
with Seoul “on possible actions.” However, he 
said, “I would rule out military action.”
National
News
SCHOLARSHIP
The Carnegie Mellon Pittsburgh Women’s Clan Scholarship Awards Committee will 
soon be interviewing women in order to select recipients for its 1988-89 awards. The 
Pittsburgh Women’s Clan annually awards scholarships to deserving and qualified Carnegie 
Mellon undergraduate women.
The following selection criteria will be used:
1. Student must currently be a junior The award will be applied to 
the Fall tuition at CM during her senior year.
2 Student must have a QPA of 2.80 or above.
3. Student should be active in school activities.
4. Student s financial need and aid will also be taken into 
consideration.
Scholarship applications are now available in the Financial Aid Office. Two 
scholarships will be awarded; a minimum of $1000 each. The deadline for submission of 
the application is Wednesday, February 10, 1988. Applications should be returned to the 
Financial Aid Office, 2nd Floor, Warner Hall.
The Carnegie MeHon Pittsburgh Women’s Clan is comprised of Alumni of Carnegie 
Mellon University. They have maintained an active interest in CM activities and have been 
very generous m their support of time and money.
Court Upholds School 
Newspaper Censorship
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The Supreme 
Court ruled 5-3 that public school officials 
have substantial authority to censor school 
newspapers and other student expression.
The decision, written by Justice Byron 
White, continues the court’s recent trend of 
curtailing the rights of high school students, a 
marked change of direction for the court.
In Wednesday’s ruling, the justices upheld 
the 1983 decision of a high school principal in 
Hazelwood, Mo., to delete two pages of a 
student newspaper because he objected to 
articles about pregnancy and divorce. The 
high court said the principal didn’t violate the 
First Amendment rights of the student editors 
who sued.
The court said students’ First Amendment 
rights come into play “only when the decision 
to censor a school-sponsored publication, 
theatrical production, or other vehicle of stu­
dent expression has no valid educational pur­
poses. ... “
Report Blames Stock 
Crash on Reaganomics
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Calling budget 
deficits “the unwanted and unpleasant step­
child of Reaganomics,” the president’s task 
force on the Oct. 19 stock market crash pointed 
to government red ink as a major cause.
The report put concerns about the budget and 
trade shortfalls first in a list of six “events in 
world financial markets that laid the ground­
work for a significant correction” in the stock 
market.
Before the report’s release, administration 
officials indicated that the Brady task force 
would cite Wall Street, rather than govern­
ment policies, as the cause of the crash. But in 
fact, the report suggests the administration’s 
budget policies deserve a portion of the blame.
The five other developments highlighted by 
the task for£e were: instability in the foreign 
exchange markets; a rise in interest rates; a 
House Ways and Means Committee proposal 
to restrict takeovers; an excess supply of stock 
overseas; and changes in political leadership, 
including the transition at the Federal Reserve 
from the former chairman, Paul Volcker, to 
Alan Greenspan.
Despite these problems, however, the task 
force said the ultimate effects of the stock 
market decline on the economy are “highly 
uncertain.” And it concluded that the likeli­
hood of a depression similar to the one thC 
followed the 1929 crash is “only a remote 
possibility.”
In a section of the report entitled “The Eco­
nomic Impact of the Market Collapse,” the 
task force noted that significant declines in 
stock prices in 1948, 1957, 1969, 1973 and 
1981 presaged recessions. But it also pointed 
out that a 29% drop in stock prices in 1946 and 
a 28% decline in 1962 weren’t followed b') 
economic downturns.
And while acknowledging that the stock 
market drop is likely to damp consumer and 
business spending, the report said those could 
be offset by the expansionary effect of the 
declines in interest rates and the dollar that 
followed the market crash.
Shuttle Launches Set - 
To Resume July 15
WASHINGTON (AP) — NASA said today 
it will use a backup design for a space shuttle 
booster rocket part that failed last month and if 
it passes testing, shuttle flights could resume 
July 15.
“If the alternative part passes rigorous tes* g 
ing and our other schedules are met, July 15 is 
the earliest we could fly,” Rear Adm. Richard 
Truly, associate administrator for space flight, 
told a news conference.
Two weeks ago, Truly estimated the latest 
delay in resuming launches at six to 10 weeks 
and today he said that hadn’t changed. The 
space agency had been aiming for a June 2 
launch of Discovery. ^
The shuttle fleet has been grounded since the 
explosion of the shuttle Challenger and the 
deaths of its seven crew members.
Drug Dealer Sentenced 
To 5 Years of Celibacy
PHILADELPHIA — A federal judge sen­
tenced convicted drug dealer Michael 
Youngblood to five years without sex. 
Youngblood has fathered three children out oF 
wedlock .
An FBI informant, he has helped law en­
forcement officers convict other drug dealers
The judge did not say how the sentence 
would be enforced.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
START YOUR POLITICAL CAREER 
NOW!
Penn PIC, Pennsylvania's largest progressive lobby, is hiring part- 
time telephone canvasers.
• Fight for toxic clean-up, divestment, insurance reform
• Work on 1988's presidential election
• $8.00 per hour, paid training benefits
• Flexible hourse, Monday through Friday
• Advancement into full-time management
• Commitment to social justice required
Call John between 1:30 and 4:30 at 765-3007
Call now and make a progressive political 
change in Pennsylvania!

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 3
•Israel and CMU Sign Agreement
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
On Friday December 11, Carnegie Mellon 
announced that it has reached an agreement 
with the State of Israel to cooperate with Israeli 
^niversities in educational computing.
The agreement, which signifies Israel’s in­
tent to collaborate, was signed only days be­
fore violence and civil unrest broke out on the 
Gaza Strip.
Israeli Vice Premier and Minister of Foreign 
Affairs Shimon Peres, who signed the accord, 
spent part of the day on campus meeting with 
Carnegie Mellon President Richard Cyert, the 
^irector of the Robotics Institute Raj Reddy, 
and Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, Chair­
man of Carnegie Mellon’s International 
Committee.
Peres is the head of Israel’s labor party. He 
has called for an international conference that 
would settle conflicts in the Middle East.
The joint project, under the direction of 
Reddy, will create computer networks be­
tween Carnegie Mellon and five Israeli uni­
versities.
The agreement, however, does not cover any 
specific projects. It merely signifies an intent 
to conduct joint research.
Other projects that may be conducted in­
clude direct satellite communications, data­
base knowledge, expert systems research, and 
joint education efforts.
Although Israel will be receiving the bulk of 
^the immediate benefits, in the form of access to 
technological developments, the relationship 
will be mutually beneficial.
As an example, Reddy pointed out that the 
Israelis may discover flaws in the Andrew
system while trying to convert it to use He­
brew. Any adaptations created by Israeli uni­
versities would then be available to Carnegie 
Mellon.
Joint projects will allow CMU researchers to 
tackle interesting problems that they other­
wise would not encounter.
With Peres’ approval, Servan-Schreiber is 
conducting similar discussions with some of 
the Arab nations in the Middle East. He de­
clined to name the other countries at this time.
This accord is a product of a conversation 
Servan-Schreiber had with Peres several years 
ago. The Foreign Minister was originally set to 
visit CMU in May 1987, but had to postpone 
the trip.
Many of the people involved in the agree­
ment expressed hope that this project will lead 
to an easing of tensions between Israel and its 
Arab neighbors. Servan-Schreiber said that he 
believes Carnegie Mellon may be able to help 
bring the Arabs and Israelis together.
Researchers at CMU have developed a 
computer system that translates between Japa­
nese and English. A similar system for He­
brew and Arabic could ease communication 
between Israel and her neighbors.
Also, such a system could increase trade 
between Israel and other countries. Increasing 
economic ties among Middle Eastern nations 
could reduce tensions in the area.
Israel has occupied the Gaza Strip and the 
West Bank since the Arab-Israeli war of 1967. 
At the time Israel was surrounded by hostile 
nations. In 1979 Israel made peace with Egypt.
Neither of the two major political parties in 
Israel hold a majority of the seats in the Israeli 
parliament. In a power sharing arrangement
between the parties, Peres served half a term as 
Prime Minister and is now serving half a term 
as Foreign Minister.
Because of this awkward coalition of oppos­
ing parties, Peres’ peace efforts have stalled.
Palestinian leader Yassar Arafat indicated 
last week that he would recognize Israel’s 
right to exist, if it would attend an international
Williams Named 
Math Dept. Head
By LILLY MANSOUR
Tartan Staffwriter
Dr. William O. Williams was recently 
appointed head of Carnegie Mellon’s 
Department of Mathematics. He had 
been acting head for nearly two years.
Williams has been with the math de­
partment for 21 years. In 1977 he was 
appointed associate professor.
He received a doctor’s degree in ap­
plied mathematics from Brown Univer­
sity.
Before joining Carnegie Mellon, Wil­
liams spent some time working for Esso 
Production Research Co.
A member of the American Mathe­
matical Society, Williams is an editor of 
the Archive for Rational Mechanics and 
Analysis as well as a consultant to Los 
Alamos National Laboratory.
Williams resides with his wife in 
Squirrel Hill.
peace conference.
Carnegie Mellon has been involved in simi­
lar projects in the past with universities in 
Japan, Europe, Brazil, and other countries. 
This agreement is the first which CMU has 
reached with a foreign nation as a whole.
(Tartan News Editor Eric W. Leuliette con­
tributed to this article.)
Frat Brothers Plea Bargain
continued from page 1
ing money at the doors or working at the bars.
The following Monday, President Richard 
Cyert announced that the university would 
assist those arrested in the raid with their legal 
representation.
Brannick met with lawyers from the law firm 
of Reed Smith Shaw and McClay to discuss 
legal strategy. Reed Smith recommended that 
the university hire Jack Doherty of Manifesto 
to handle the case.
On the night of the arrests a hearing before a 
magistrate had been scheduled for November 
30. This hearing was later postponed until 
December 7.
Prior to the hearing, Doherty met with repre­
sentatives of the LCB and arranged a plea 
bargain.
The part of the arrangement which was most 
important to many of the eleven was that all 
records of the arrest will be destroyed. They 
had been concerned that having a misde­
meanor on their records would make it harder 
to get a job after they graduate.
W3VC Carnegie Tech 
Radio Club
Invites YOU to the January Meeting!
Activities: 
Elections DX Society Presentation Sign-up for Air Traffic 
Control tour And much, much more...
Thursday at 7:30 Wean 5409
The Surgeon General Reports: 
CAUTION: Ham Radio may be habit forming!
"Funded by your Activities Fee"
#

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Organizational Meeting
ir rhiw noTuesday, January 19,1988 
7:00 — Skibo Ballroom
Looking For:
Production
. o'*- TO!0 j
..............
It’s Not Too Late! 
Join Now!
Paid Positions Available
Including:
Managing Editor
plus...
FREE PIZZA

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 5
SEI Dedicated Amid Protest
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
Carnegie Mellon’s Software Engineering 
Institute (SEI) was dedicated on December
11 amid protests by area peace organiza­
tions.
The opening coincided with a visit by 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres who 
signed an educational computing agree­
ment with CMU. University administrators 
said the visit was a coincidence.
Approximately 100 protestors objected to 
the dedication of SEI, which some referred 
to as a “laboratory of destruction.” 
Administrators and military officials 
lauded the research institute as a new addi­
tion to Pittsburgh’s attempts to diversify 
the economy.
Protestors belittled the economic impor­
tance of the $21 million building located on 
Fifth Avenue, beside Mellon institute.
President Cyert said SEI would make 
Pittsburgh the “software center of the 
world.” SEI currently employs 154 people 
and hopes to increase that number by a 
hundred in just a few years.
Ronald Kerber, deputy under secretary of 
defense attended the dedication of the 
building. Its construction was funded as 
part of a 5-year, $ 103 million contract from 
the department of defense.
Kerber confirmed that the software re­
search at SEI would be important in devel­
oping “smart weapons,” ones which are 
able to locate and destroy targets accu­
rately.
One protestor, Vincent Eireni of Manch­
ester, was arrested for obstructing traffic. 
Eireni repeatedly knelt in front of the en­
trance to the garage of SEI.
Police removed him several times before 
arresting him.
photo by Chris Young
Two employees at the newly dedicated Software Engineering Institute. By 1990 they 
plan to increase their numbers from 154 to around 250.
AEROSPACE ENGINEERING 
GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D):
Imagine Peace Winner Selected
Aerodynamics
Aeroelasticity
Combustion
Computational Fluid Dynamics 
Computer-Aided Design
Flight Mechanics & Controls 
Propulsion
Rotary Wing Technology 
Structural Dynamics 
Structures - Composites
RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS AND ONE-THIRD TO 
ONE-HALF TIME RESEARCH ASSISTANTSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE
Financial aid per calendar year:
$8,000 - $13,500 plus tuition and fees
All graduate students will participate in research
For further information contact:
Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator 
School of Aerospace Engineering 
Georgia Institute of Technology 
Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894-6046 
Office hours: M-W 2-4:30
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
Free-lance writer Deborah J. Leff of Pitts­
burgh took top honors with her proposed dis­
armament scenario in Carnegie Mellon’s re­
cent Imagine Peace contest, an international 
writing competition based on the psychologi­
cal theory known as scenario thinking.
According to M. Granger Morgan, head of 
Engineering and Public Policy, and director of 
the International Peace and Security program, 
“the idea for pursuing development of peace 
scenarios grew out of the results of recent 
psychological experiments on ‘scenario think­
ing,’ researched by Dr. Robyn Dawes, head of 
the Social and Decision Sciences Dept.”
This theory holds that people are more likely 
to believe a future event possible if they could 
envision a reasonable chain of events that 
would bring it about. So, it was hoped that the 
Imagine Peace competition will produce writ­
ten scenarios which will inspire some means 
of bringing about peaceful negotiations be­
tween world superpowers.
More than 120 applications, including one 
from West Germany,_were reviewed by a 
faculty committee from the International 
Peace and Security campus-wide program es­
tablished in 1985 and operated through the 
Department of Engineering and Public Policy. 
Participants submitted 1500 word proposals 
for developing essays, novels, stories and, 
plays about achieving peace.
The Imagine Peace winner, Deborah Leff, 
submitted a proposal suggesting international 
peace through computerized communication 
between antagonistic nations. Leff calls it “a 
negotiations tool.”
Otherwise known as the “C-game,” her pro­
posal envisions a peace corps volunteer bring­
ing third world children together via personal 
computers. By remaining anonymous, the 
players reveal their true hopes and fears to 
each other, and gain a better understanding of 
the people of each other's country.
Eventually, as children and adults through­
out the world begin communicating via this 
computer game, a 1992 presidential candidate 
challenges the General Secretary of the Soviet 
Union to communicate with her via the “C- 
game." This candidate's initiative then leads 
to further communication with the General 
Secretary, and eventual nuclear disarmament.
In her proposal Leff says that she could 
foresee such an event happening “in the next 
ten to fourteen years.” She says that "we do 
have the technology to create such a game, 
land that in fact] there exists a similar game 
called 'Relay' (which users can play to com­
municate with other world users. |”
In addition, the University of Peace in Costa 
Rica is starting a world-wide computerized 
network that would include the Soviet Union 
to start a database for peace and peace related 
subjects. “Through communicating and un­
derstanding people on the other side.” Leff 
said, "we see them as human beings and we are 
less likely to annihilate them.”
Eight other individual or group winners re­
ceived cash awards. Two student winners 
from Carnegie Mellon, sophomore Christo­
pher Patrick Kush and senior Richard C. Nave, 
will receive student awards and academic 
credit for completing their proposals.
, Leff, who received $5,000 in December to 
develop her proposal, plans to produce a 
screenplay that will eventually be proposed to 
the Public Broadcasting System or Home Box 
Office networks. She hopes to have her 90 
minute screenplay completed by September.
FEAATUU RS.Pa ge1T3eU FeAOE32
FEAATUU RS.Pa ge1T3eU FeAOE32 4ncUTP hT.e.PE rAon1
cordially invites
Carnegie-Mellon Seniors
to attend an
Information Meeting
Wednesday January 27, 1988 
7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Skibo, Room 12
to discuss the
Two-Year 
Financial Analyst Program
Refreshments will be served
Menili Lynch
«

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—January 19,1988
Bush Apparent Winner in Mich. Caucuses
DETRIOT — Vice President George Bush 
apparently emerged from Thursday’s Michi­
gan county caucuses with 63 percent of the 
delegates.
Pat Robertson had
18 percent and Rep. 
Jack Kemp had 16 
percent. The other 
three major Republican candidates did not 
actively campaign in the caucuses.
These caucuses elected 1,805 delegates that 
will select Michigan’s 77 delegates to the 
national convention.
Bush is apparently the winner because court 
battles plagued the caucuses. A coalition of 
Kemp and Robertson supporters challenged 
the party rules in court, but Bush won.
In protest, Kemp and Robertson supports 
walked out of some of the county meetings.
Robertson predicted that the dispute will 
have to be settled by the Supreme Court.
Bush Questioned About 
Iran-Contra Affair
WASHINGTON (AP) — GOP front-runner 
George Bush met with representatives of inde­
pendent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh and 
“answered all questions” posed to him on the 
Iran-Contra affair, the vice president's 
spokesman said.
“All questions were answered completely, 
fully, and under oath,” Bush's spokesman 
Stephen Hart said.
Hart repeated an earlier statement that Bush 
“is merely a witness” and not a target of 
Walsh's investigation.
“As part of the continuing process of coop­
eration by the president, the vice president and 
members of the administration, the vice presi­
dent today voluntarily met with and answered 
all questions posed by the members of the 
independent counsel’s staff,” the statement 
said.
Robertson Plans To 
Eliminate Tobacco
Saying “I'm on the side of the angels on this 
one,” Pat Robertson Wednesday defended a
plan to eliminate the tobacco industry within a 
decade.
Campaigning in South Carolina, he con­
tended that there is no question that smoking 
can cause cancer and increases the risk of birth 
defects.
Robertson is not concerned with any loss of 
support this stand will have in the tobacco- 
growing south.
Tartan Candidate Profile: 
Senator Paul Simon
The ugly duckling candidate of the Demo­
cratic presidential race is senator Paul Simon 
of Illinois. In an era where television appear­
ance is supposedly paramount, Simon is an 
unlikely candidate.
Nevertheless, Simon has risen in the polls in 
Iowa. His package of proposals has a lot to do 
with the rise.
A college drop-out, Simon owned, edited, 
and published his own newspaper at age 19. 
He achieved recognition for uncovering a ring 
of gambling and prostitution.
The son of Lutheran missionaries to China, 
he spent the Korean War in West Germany, 
interrogating East German defectors.
From 1955 to 1973 he rose through state 
politics: state representative, senator, and lieu­
tenant governor, he lost a bid for governor in 
1972.
He served five terms in Congress and in 1984 
he challenged Senator Charles Percy, who was 
Chairman of the Foreign Relations Commit­
tee. His upset victory surprised many political
observers.
Simon has opposed aid to the Contras and as 
president would reduce the U.S. presence in 
Honduras.
Unlike many Democrats, he supports a bal­
anced budget amendment. To raise revenues, 
he would increase taxes on cigarettes and oil.
Simon is the author of eleven books, includ­
ing a biography of his political hero, Abraham 
Lincoln.
Words which will come back to haunt him: 
“More than any other candidate I have demon­
strated that I am willing to do what’s unpopu­
lar.”
Tartan Candidate Profiler 
Senator Robert Dole
For Republicans, the presidential campaign 
is a two-man race, with Senator Robert Dole 
trying to dent George Bush’s lead.
As Minority Leader of the Senate, Dole is 
responsible for selling the President’s pro­
grams to Congress. He has remained loyal, but 
independent of Reagan.
Once a right-wing congressman, Dole has 
mellowed politically. Still, he supports Star
Wars, the Contras, the anti-abortion move­
ment, and school prayer.
He has broken from the Administration by 
supporting foocf stamps, civil rights, and funds 
for the handicapped.
Dole lost all the use of his right arm as the 
result of an exploding shell that struck him in ^ 
Italy as World War II drew to a close.
His injuries caused him to remain in Army 
hospitals for three years after the war. As he 
recovered, he was driven to succeed in law.
He progressed through Kansas politics in the 
1950s and spent the 1960s in Congress.
Elected to the Senate, he was Richard 
Nixon’s strongest supporter. His loyalty al­
most cost him his seat in 1974 during Water- ^ 
gate.
President Ford asked him to run as Vice- 
President in 1976, to appease the conservative 
Reagan wing of the Republican Party.
Given the task of defending the Ford Ad­
ministration on the campaign road, Dole was 
dubbed Ford’s “hatchet man”.
Known for his sharp wit, Dole is aided by his 
politically savvy second wife, Elizabeth, wh°^ 
recently resigned as Sec. of Transportation.
Dole is widely respected for his work on the 
budget and his ability to forge compromise 
among congress, the President, and special 
interests.
He does not favor tax increases and would 
raise revenues through other methods. He 
would consider cuts in Social Security to bal­
ance the budget.
Words which will come back to haunt him: In 
the 1976 vice-presidential debate he referred 
to the world wars, Korea, and Vietnam and 
lamented “all the killed and wounded in all 
Democrat wars in this century.”
*
* a* ’r ?A R AI a' r A
YOUR LAST CHANCE!r a ARra M
RESIDENT ASSISTANT 
INTEREST SESSION
DATE: TUES. JAN. 19
TIME: 9:30 PM
PLACE: WHERRETT RMT RaRA Q
RAr
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN 
A N RA POSITION AND HAVE 
NOT ATTENDED A PREVIOUS 
SESSION, YOU MUST ATTEND 
THIS FINAL MEETING TO PICK 
UP AN APPLICATION.
QUESTIONS? CALL2139
*

---------------------------------------------------

Microsoft
*UNIX is a trademark of AT&T Bell Labs.
XENIX and MS-DOS are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation, 
®1988, Microsoft Corporation,
Stop fooling around. It’s time to get hardcore about software. With 
Microsoft.
We’ll give you all the resources you want. Tens of millions in 
R&D funding. Along with one of the most elementary tools for think­
ing— a door, which leads to your own private office. All backed by 
management that truly does speak your language, because they proba­
bly helped write it.
We’re serious about software design. If you are too, then sign up 
for an on-campus interview.
ios3meAE vE2Tt. d.tT.EEA2
We’re working on everything from compilers, operating systems, and 
networking to sophisticated graphics, powerful productivity software, 
and more. In fact we’re working on some truly visionary ideas we 
can’t even reveal yet. You could be too, if you have programming 
experience and a background that includes micro’s, “C”, 8086, 
UNIX*/XENIX™, or MS-DOS®.
4AotAew Fe.etEA2
Instant responsibility. You select the features, you shape the product, 
you design the user interface for new generations of software. Guide 
product development from programming through documentation and 
testing. Keep your product at the forefront of technology by knowing 
your competition and product trends.
There are opportunities to work with our teams in applications, 
systems, languages, or CD-ROM. If you’re about to graduate with a 
B.S. in computer science, math or a related major, we want to talk to 
you.
Microsoft offers you an opportunity to live and work where the 
quality of life is high and the cost of living is low — the beautiful 
Pacific Northwest. Along with amenities such as a health club member­
ship, workout facilities and parcourse, plus an array of benefits.
To find out about opportunities for full-time posi­
tions and summer internships, begin by attending 
our on-campus interviews on Monday, January 
25. Contact your Career Placement Office 
to sign up. We are an equal opportunity 
employer.
#L

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—January 19,1988
\oure astute enough to discuss the 
philosophical ramifications of 
Victor Frankl’s '‘Existential Vacuum?
jitr
And youre still smoking?
Crime and Incident Report: 1/5/88 to 1/14/88*
1/5/88 THEFT Cigarettes and bags of 
money were removed from a locked CMU 
Vending van parked at the Mellon Institute 
loading dock. The money was in an unlocked 
safe. Though the van was alarmed, the window 
was pried open. Approximate value: $400.
1/7/88 THEFT Three hundred pound drill 
press reported stolen from Wean 2340 in 
August 1986. x
1/7/88 CONFISCATION Contraband re­
moved unlocked from 4th floor CFA locker. 
Confiscated were a bottle of Jack Daniels, a 
syringe, and some cigarettes.
1/8/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 11:37 am 
Two suspicious black males reported at 
Hamburg Hall at 9:45 am. They confronted 
victim at a lunch stand and began whistling. 
Following her around the building to her of­
fice, they asked her name. Victim asked them 
to leave, which they did.
1/9/88 THEFT Victim reported watch lost 
or stolen from a Mudge bathroom on the night 
of Dec. 15. Seiko watch disappeared from 
shelf when victim left room. Value: $170.
1/11 /88 THEFT Bicycle stolen during break 
from basement storage room of Shirley Apart­
ments. 18-speed Ross Mountain bike valued at 
$350.
1/11/88 THEFT/RECOVERY 1:45 pm 
Victim reported wallet stolen from 1st floor 
Baker. Found later by student and returned by 
Security. $15 was missing.
I/11/88 THEFT/RECOVERY 8:35 pm 
Security responded to report of smoke in 
Welch and traced source to a smoldering 
candle. While at Welch officer found room 
with four signs including traffic and LCB 
signs. The signs were confiscated.
1/12/88 MAINTENANCE CONDITION 
3:03 pm Turner Construction security re­
ported water or glycol leak in SEI. CMU 
officer contacted environmental services. 
Leak traced to chilled water equipment. No 
hazardous materials were involved.
1/12/88 COMPLAINT 8:54 pm SUPA stu­
dents in Hamburg Hall concerned that no 
emergency phone is available on the exterior 
of the building.
1/12/88 THEFT 10 pm Ten-speed bicycle 
stolen from GSIA rear bike rack. Value: $100.
1/14/88 SIMPLE ASSAULT/TERROR­
ISTIC THREATS 5:11 pm Person in the 
Society of Creative Anachronism was as­
saulted by ex-girlfriend who pulled his hair 
and scratched his neck. She said she was going 
home to get a gun. Victim concerned that she 
would return at SCA’s Saturday performance^ 
1/14/88 THEFT 9:45 pm Two mirrors taken 
from sinks in Morewood Gardens 4-E bath­
rooms.
Minutes of Student Senate 
Meeting: January 12,1988
Meeting called to order 7:00 pm
Senators Present: Christina, de Jong, 
Gallo, Gantshar, Graupera, Greenberg 
(rep), Hausman, Herrick, Jacowitz, 
Jainchill, Kombrek, Levine, Levy, Liu, 
Mukherjee, Rao, Ruben, Sklar, Steppel, 
Zapf.
Senators Absent: Berger, Dennis, Fra­
zier (exc), Neighbor, Pavlosky, Sine.
Ex-Officio Members Present: Ro- 
bitshek, Skolkin.
ISx-Officio Members Absent: Detillo, 
Vayansky (exc).
President: Andy Robitshek: gave pep 
talk. Need ideas for Senior Ball.
Chairman: Erica Levy
SDC: Delia Vayansky: no representative.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: no report.
Academic Affairs: Lisa Christina: no re­
port.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: CFA 
and Doherty subbasements are being
checked for safety.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal 
Mukherjee: Thursday meeting. Will have 
budget packets. 3 or 4 clubs still need to 
see him.
Public Relations: Laurie Gallo: Retreat 
will be January 22-23 at Holiday Inn in 
Uniontown.
Rules: Allen Greenberg: Discussed 
room entering policy.
Old Business: none.
New Business: none.
Points of Discussion: Someone from 
audience can be a Member at Large and 
serve on Senate committees.
Announcements: PR see Laurie after 
meeting. Rules meeting Thursday at 6 pm. 
Academic Affairs meet after meeting. 
Campus Affairs meet Wednesday at 6 pm. 
Senators can eat dinner together at 6 pm 
before the meetings in Scotland Yard.
Meeting adjourned 7:15.
Ijiri Named 
Univ. Professor
PITTSBURGH — Yuji Ijiri, Robert 
M. Trueblood professor of accounting 
and economics at Carnegie Mellon 
University, has been named a Univer­
sity Professor.
Appointment to the position of Uni­
versity Professor is the highest honor 
the university can bestow on a faculty 
member. A University Professor, se­
lected by the other University Profes­
sors at Carnegie Mellon, transcends the 
institution's academic department and 
colleges.
Ijiri joined the Carnegie Mellon fac­
ulty in 1967 as a professor of industrial 
administration in the business school. 
He was named Robert M. Trueblood 
professor of accounting and economics 
in 1975.
He spent four years on the faculty of 
Stanford University’s business school 
after earning his doctor's degree from 
Carnegie Mellon in 1963.
Ijiri received his bachelor’s degree 
from Ritsumeikan University in Japan 
in 1956 and his master’s degree from 
the University of Minnesota 1960.
He is author of numerous books and 
articles, including Theory of Account­
ing Measurement and Triple-Entry 
Bookkeeping and Income Momentum. 
He co-authored Kohler’s Dictionary 
for Accountants with William W. 
Cooper and Skew Distributions and the
Sizes of Business Firms with Herbert/A. Simon.
Delivery Hours:
ggam till midnight 
Fn—Sat till 2am
There s a battle raging every day at high noon 
Why fight the crowd when Bubba s delivers 
delicious lunch right to your door9 
Call today and victory is yours'
In Oakland —621 - 1500 
In Shadyside — 362 - 6900
PIEROGIE POWER!
Buy one 6 pack of 
Pierogies get another 
at Half Price!
(special limited offer)
Buy One 14" Sub 
Get Same 7" Sub
subs sondwiches-specialties JZj-qq
Expiree 1/30/881 Expire* 1/30/88O Burn t i|«n Inc

---------------------------------------------------

Fencing 
High Tech
• Do the Russians build their military 
strength by buying or stealing all 
our best technology?
• Can the U.S. survive in the global 
economy if government controls 
won’t let us export our best high- 
tech stuff?
• Is it good or bad to sell computers 
to Eastern Europe, the Soviets, the 
Chinese?
• Do foreigners who are allowed into 
U.S. labs and scientific meetings, 
steal stuff for the competition?
These and other important questions,
as well as policy options for dealing
with them, will be the focus of a
campus-wide course:
99-100: Fencing in High Tech: An
examination of the costs, benefits 
and policy options for controls on 
international flows of high technology 
knowledge and products.
Lecturers in the course will include 
leading experts in this field from 
government, the private sector and 
academia.
When? The course will be held in 
Skibo on the afternoon and evening 
of Friday, February 12 and all day on 
Saturday, February 13.
Whofe It For? The course is available 
for 2 units of academic credit to all 
full-time Carnegie Mellon undergradu­
ate and graduate students. The 
course is open on an audit basis to 
the entire Carnegie Mellon com­
munity: students, faculty, alumni, 
staff, and to their invited guests. All 
audit and credit participants must 
pre-register. Outside guests and 
alumni participants will be asked to 
pay a small registration fee.
Requirements For Credit. For stu­
dents who elect to take the course for 
credit there will be a set of required 
readings available in the bookstore 
and at registration tables on campus.
There will be a brief quiz on the 
readings during the course. There will 
be a follow-up writing assignment in-
volving an essay of between 1,000 
and 1,500 words.
For further information visit one of 
the registration tables set up on cam­
pus, or stop by Room 129 Baker Hall. 
Telephone: 268-2672.
Fencing in" 
High Tech
Supported by the Office of the President 
Carnegie Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
All the News the Principal Sees Fit to Print '
If “Big Brother” is indeed watching, the Supreme Court ruled last Wednesday to 
give him a telescope.
In the long-awaited decision of Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier, the 
Court reversed a lower decision and granted public school officials extensive 
powers to censor “school-sponsored expressive activities” such as newspapers and 
plays.
The case was filed by staff members of The Spectrum, a newspaper produced by 
a journalism class at Hazelwood East High School, after the school’s principal 
removed two pages containing articles about sex, birth control and divorce.
The students contested their First Amendment right of free speech had been 
violated, but the Court ruled that schools can restrict students more than govern­
ment can restrict citizens in general particularly in school-sponsored and financed 
activities.
The crux of the majority’s argument rests on ownership and allowable restraint 
by the publisher, in this case, the school’s principal; The Spectrum is part of the 
school curriculum — it is the product of a class.
Therefore, the Court argued, The Spectrum is not an open public forum and its 
staff is not thus protected under the First Amendment or a 1969 ruling that limits 
educators’ ability to censor free expression that “happens to occur on the school
premises.”
It would be easy to say this is a bad decision — this is America, any censorship 
is a bad thing. Too easy. Everything, including this editorial, is censored, to a 
degree.
The problem, then, is a question of degrees. Why give the principal exclusive 
censorship? Does the principal own the paper? Does the warden own the prison?
The decision did not mention state universities. Where do you stop? How do you 
draw the line?
Isn ’t the purpose of any newspaper to provide a window on pertinent issues in an 
as objective and fair a manner as possible? Controversiality should not be a factor 
in determining what is news and what, as one newspaper claims, “Is fit to print” 
The bottom line is that high school is supposed to foster learning. How are 
aspiring journalists supposed to learn with a principal waiting to delete any 
“controversial” reporting? The New York Times doesn’t have a principal. How are 
aspiring journalists supposed to learn while “Big Brother” is watching?
^>o Yoo à ont- h'l&r 'tMjt c&feberfa kdn?
r jr^rure lyirtj • Ue ¿Wt
li<ts do c
m
ii
Letters:\
Remembering Doctor King
Editor:
January 18. 1987 marks a special day on the 
calendar for our nation, it marks the national 
holiday to honor the life and contributions of 
the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. As 
one of the student organizations dedicated to 
supporting the Black student and their heri­
tage, SPIRIT with the assistance of C-Map, 
Black Graduate Student Organization, Voices 
United Gospel Choir, and the National Society 
of Black Engineers has planned a full day of 
activities in which to honor M.L. King. Itisour 
hope, that with this celebration, the CMU 
community will come together to honor the 
contributions of a gentleman who fought not 
only for the rights of Black Americans but for 
the rights of all oppressed people. We believe
that if Dr. King were alive today, nothing 
would please him more than to see students of 
all races and ethnic backgrounds coming to­
gether not simply to celebrate his .contribu­
tions but to celebrate the sharing of various 
cultures. Dr. King believed that each individ­
ual culture and race of people had something to 
offer to the rest of the world and so do we.
SPIRIT Organization invites you, to join us 
in RECLAIMING THE DREAM. Join us in 
celebrating the uniting of peoples of all races 
and backgrounds in honoring the man who 
showed us that beauty and harmony comes in 
all colors.
Nicole Austin 
SPIRIT President
Protesting the Protestors: SEI 
Doesn’t Spell SDI to Some
Editor:
I am protesting the protestors of Carnegie 
Mellon University's Softwar^ Engineering 
Institute (SEI). While I respect their First 
Amendment right to freedom of speech, I do 
not respect their self-proclaimed right to paint 
slogans of disinformation on the Institute's 
walls.
First, as a taxpayer, I am irate that they feel 
free to deface a building paid for and main­
tained with my tax dollars. I too like to see tax 
dollars go for good causes—not to pay for 
scrubbing paint off walls.
Secondly, I condemn the protestors for intro­
ducing erroneous information into the debate 
over the Space Defense Initiative (sic) <SDI). 
SEI and SDI are not the same thing. The 
protestors, however, are convinced that be-
cause SEI is funded by the Department of De­
fense, any advances made in software engi­
neering are destined for SDI which will inev­
itably lead to nuclear war. The logic is faulty. 
True, the military will benefit from SEI’s work 
as will any person, college, hospital, or corpo­
ration that uses computers. Let’s not protest 
SEI simply because software is used to pro­
gram the computers that run our nation s com­
munication, radar and air traffic control sys-. 
tems.
I call on the protestors to respect the prop­
erty rights of the taxpayers they claim to de­
fend—don't deface our building. I challenge 
the protestors to tell the truth about SEI—it’s 
not SDI.
H. Scott Cunningham
Oil Spill Brings More than just 
Water Shortage to Pittsburgh
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Only Pittsburgh could have the worst in­
land oil disaster in US history and be rated 
one*of the top ten healthiest places to live in 
America. To commemorate this important 
event, Inquiring Minds has compiled this 
list of noted comments overheard in the 
nation’s bars and malls.
• Andy Rooney 
led his commen­
tary this week 
with, “Don’t you 
hate these disas­
ters without catchy names. I mean, Water­
gate is already taken, and no one can pro­
nounce the name of that stupid river.”
• “You know, the steel for the oil drum 
came from Cleveland, no wonder it col­
lapsed.” (Gratuitous Cleveland joke of the 
week)
• “If you think about it, the oil spill really 
didn't matter. No one in Pittsburgh could 
taste the difference and people in West Vir­
ginia don’t have indoor plumbing any­
how.”
• “Filled up my Chevy truck from the tap. 
Got three miles per gallon better than with 
SOHIO unleaded. (Gratuitous Cleveland 
joke #2)”
• In a water conservation effort. Physical 
Plant flooded the sub-basements of 
Doherty. Design majors immediately 
complained about difficulty breathing 
underwater. In a typical Warner Hall re­
sponse, Physical Plant offered to send them 
manure.
• Studies estimate the water on C-level 
alone will last Pittsburgh 13 months, as
long as no one flushes a toilet.
• Local fisherman predicted that this year’s 
fish harvest would be easier than ever be­
fore. One fisherman said, “How tough is it 
to scoop the suckers off the top of the wa­
ter?”
• The Monroeville Women’s Bridge club 
was ripped off by a door-to-door instant 
water salesman (just add water). The pack­
ets even had a free recipe for ice with both 
high altitude and microwave directions.
• Pat Robertson gave thanks to the Al­
mighty for giving him the ability to force 
water AND oil downstream.
• Oral Roberts stated that unless Pittsburgh 
gave him 3 million dollars by January 19, 
he would force the oil upstream, Pat 
Robertson not withstanding.
• While cleaning the river, Pittsburgh Po­
lice discovered the dead body of Richard 
Cyert. Students learned that Carnegie 
Mellon had, in fact, been run for the Jast 
seven years by Cyert’s evil twin brother 
J.R. Cyert.
• Ashland Oil announced a new slogan to 
reflect their renewed commitment to serv­
ice: “We’re Delta on the river.”
• In his first press release of the year. 
President Reagan stated,“I’m Delta in the 
White House” (we couldn’t resist).
• Michael Jackson offered to buy the oil 
spill for 5 million dollars. The deal fell 
through when the City of Pittsburgh could 
not decide whether or not to levy the 10% 
entertainment tax.
• Several Ashland engineers, former Mor- 
ton-Thiokol employees, admitted they had
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 11
Conservatively Speaking...
Media Charged with Exaggeration in Israel Coverage
By AARON M. SOLOMON
While we settle down to the new semester’s 
workload, we may not have lots of time to sit 
down and analyze the few images that the 
media sends us on the 
evening news. “Oh, 
the Israeli soldiers are 
tear-gassing Arabs in 
their country... 
Doesn’t that Middle - East violence ever let 
up?” This is a very typical reaction prompted 
by ignorance and a lack of knowledge about 
the true situation in Israel. The gas-induced 
tears of the Arab Street Toughs flashed on the 
-^screen during the 6 o’clock news is the result 
of inciting by the PLO, Libya, and Syria, to go 
on a rampage: burning cars, throwing stones, 
and tossing Molotov cocktails at security 
forces.
When faced by unruly mobs wielding 
knives, heaving rocks and incendiary devices, 
what are the Israeli soldiers supposed to do?
When they are not allowed to disperse these 
crowds seeking their violent and bloody 
deaths with tear gas and rubber bullets, what 
other option is there besides using live ammu­
nition? Are these young soldiers supposed to 
be martyred so as not to offend the delicate 
sensitivities of international opinion?
During the 1948 war, Egypt grabbed the 
Gaza Strip, and Jordan took the West Bank. 
They controlled the lands for 19 years, until in 
the course of responding to an aggressive war 
launched by Egypt, Jordan, and Syria, Israel 
occupied them. While they ran the territories, 
Arab rulers allowed the Palestinians to sit in 
refugee camps, rather than resettle them. Since 
Israel assumed control, life expectancy has 
increased from 48 years to 62; the infant 
mortality rate has been halved. In 1967, 18 
percent of the households in Gaza had electric­
ity. Today, 88 percent have power (CC Jan. 13 
1988).
It is quite standard to occupy territory taken
in the course of a defensive war. It is also a 
standard procedure to settle the question of 
occupied territory’s sovereignty in the process 
of negotiating a peace treaty to end the war. 
However, the 1967 war has (with the excep­
tion of Egypt) not ended. The fighting ended 
with a negotiated ceasefire.
Israel has asked for, and been prepared for, 
the last 20 years to negotiate peace treaties 
with Jordan and Syria, at which time the prob­
lem of occupied territory would be settled. 
When Egypt agreed to negotiate a peace 
treaty, ending the 1967 war, the Sinai which 
had been captured and occupied in that war, 
was returned to Egypt. It is the Arab countries, 
except for Egypt, which have continued to 
refuse to negotiate, and thus the Israeli occu­
pation of the West Bank, Gaza, and the Golan 
Heights is therefore perfectly legal. It is the 
Arab reluctance to negotiate, and not Israel’s, 
which results in the current situation.
Jordan’s King Hussein has decreed the death
penalty for any Arab who sells his own land to 
a Jew. No Jews are allowed to settle in Jordan. 
After the Jordanian occupation in 1948, Jews 
were expelled from the land, including those 
whose families had lived there for many gen­
erations. The Israelis did not expel Arabs, but 
rather granted them citizenship in the new 
state, guaranteed them freedom of religion, 
and designated Arabic as one of two official 
languages of Israel.
The media, as it does so often, is creating 
news by exaggeration, suppression of facts, 
and exploitation of ambiguous images. Look 
at what Arabs are doing to each other in the 
Middle East. The Iran-Iraq war (basically a 
feud between rival Moslem factions) has 
claimed over a million lives to date. What 
prompts this média indignation? Twenty-two 
dead Palestinians. Israel must use reasonable 
force to restore order, and the media should 
concentrate its considerable abilities on relat­
ing “news” in a more truthful fashion.
IIKRBLOt K S ( AMOON
"THEY’RE NOT BUILWM6 CONSERVATIVES THE WAT THEY ÜSEPTD"
î>,«a
U.S. Steelmakers Responsible for Their Own Problems
By RUSS COOPER ,
I mentioned in a column two months ago that 
we should see a further fall in the dollar, based 
on a continued nominal trade imbalance. I 
continued that this should not necessarily be 
feared, for such a sce­
nario was mixed with 
economic opportu­
nity. With the proper 
discipline, we could 
take advantage of the falling dollar to try to 
strategically position ourselves to not only 
regain domestic markets, but maybe make in­
roads into foreign markets, concluding that 
nothing speaks louder than good products at a 
good price.
As I suggested then, the dollar has witnessed 
another loss in value in the last couple weeks. 
Indeed, if we can find stabilization around cur­
rent levels, the opportunities aforementioned 
may become possible. Well, so far, we have 
mixed reviews. From a positive standpoint, 
the real trade deficit, measured in actual physi­
cal goods, seems to have shifted a degree. Also 
forecasts appear optimistic concerning the 
regaining of some foreign markets by our ag­
ricultural sector. Unfortunately, there have 
been some developments recently that re­
semble our short-term, seemingly dismal 
strategies of the not so distant past. In other 
words, there have been actions similar to those 
that landed us in the debacle in the first place.
An example concerns two steel companies. 
USX and Bethlehem Steel have both an­
nounced increases in steel prices of between 4 
and 8 percent. We just now came to a point, 
thanks to the fallen dollar, where many ana­
lysts believe that not only can we beat back 
imports, but make solid progress in steel 
“exports”—and these companies choose to 
raise prices. Instead of trying to make an 
increase in market share, a business priority, as 
much of our world-wide competition does, we 
sell out for the sight of a few extra quick bucks. 
Instead of trying to build lasting relationships 
with customers, these companies have chosen 
to squeeze all they can. Instead of leaving a 
safety zone in case of a rising dollar and the 
return of price competition, they have chosen 
to live on the edge.
All this would not be so distasteful, if it were 
not the case that it is companies such as these,
Conservative Corner...
Statistics Counter Dukakis’ “Economic Miracle”
By THOMAS HEIM
Michael Dukakis, Governor of Massachu­
setts, candidate for the Democratic Presiden­
tial Nomination, has used as a key theme of his 
campaign the “economic miracle” he claims to 
have brought to his state. On the face of it, 
Massachusetts com­
pares very favorably 
to many other states 
particularly in that 
area of unemploy­
ment with a rate of under three percent. What 
the real trends and facts show, however, is that 
Michael Dukakis has in his most recent term of 
office set the state on the road to massive 
losses in jobs in manufacturing; a good look­
ing unemployment rate is really only the result 
of the declining population of Massachusetts.
In the last three years, Massachusetts alone 
was responsible for 24 percent of manufactur­
ing jobs lost in the entire nation; it has been 
losing manufacturing jobs at ten times the 
national rate. The General Motors plant in 
Framingham, Massachusetts recently laid off 
3,700 workers and will be closed indefinitely. 
If “Mike Dukakis. What he did for Massachu­
setts, he can do for America” becomes reality 
in his Presidency, the United States might as 
well concede manufacturing to the rest of the 
world.
The anti-business, anti-success atmosphere
that Dukakis has created in Massachusetts, 
where everything from forced employer spon­
sored health care (which might prove to kill 
start-up businesses), high state income tax, 
and high sales taxes have reversed the positive 
trends achieved by former governor Ed King, 
a conservative who achieved many significant 
tax cuts. Today, Digital Equipment Corpora­
tion, a computer company based in Massachu­
setts, employs more people in New Hampshire 
than in Massachusetts. This is hardly surpris­
ing, employees in Republican dominated New 
Hampshire face absolutely no state income tax 
and no sales tax, a proposition much prefer­
able to Taxachusetts. Michael Dukakis has 
carried his very liberal policies into other 
“safety” related matters: mandatory seat belts, 
drunk driving roadblocks, rolling 55 m.p.h. 
road blocks, and a firm 55 m.p.h. speed limit 
are typical issues on which Dukakis refuses to 
budge.
Were he to become President, the nation 
would be in for much of the same: high taxes, 
socialized medicine, and a decline in manufac­
turing fostered by his policies. From Massa­
chusetts myself. I’m always stirred to see him 
preach about the Massachusetts miracles, real 
miracles of job losses and taxation primarily. 
Of all the democratic candidates, Dukakis 
strikes me as the one who is misrepresenting 
his case the most, perhaps because on the face
of things he can get away with it. The truth is 
that the statistics are showing downward eco­
nomic trends within the state, and that fact 
Dukakis will never tell.
Diesel Duck 
and Other Oil 
Spill Delicacies
continued from page 10
had no data for the tank’s O-ring seals if 
the temperature got as cold as Joe said it 
would.
• Muamar Khadafi claimed responsibil­
ity for the oil spill. So did the People’s 
Black Oily Rivers with Dead Fish Float­
ing on Top Front as well as fourteen 
other schizo groups. Israel agreed not to 
retaliate.
• In his latest commercial, Lou Pappan, 
of Lou Pappan’s Family Restaurants, 
proudly announced a new entree: duck 
roasted in a rich diesel sauce.
The Inquiring Staff is D. Bidwa, D. 
Brick, S. Levine. S. Markon, D. Mullet, 
C. Williams, and R. Wilson.
USX and Bethlehem, that continually seek 
protectionist measures and government assis­
tance by means of tax privileges. It is they 
who, as in the case of Bethlehem, border on 
bankruptcy, which raises the possibility of 
unpaid creditors and government interven­
tion. It is they who continue to tell labor that it 
is their fault the company can’t compete. And 
it is they who continually complain that the 
trade practices are unfair, and that they can’t 
compete with foreign steel that is “dumped” 
here.
Well, the point of this is that all parts of the 
equation may not be fair, and may never be. 
Yet, each of these companies had a strategic 
window of opportunity to at least try an indi­
rect approach (through continuing to keep 
their prices low), and they have chosen to pass 
it up. They had a chance to pass on savings to 
their customers, and they choose to pass that 
up as well. Why do I have this strange feeling 
that these companies will be disgruntled and 
dismayed at some future date, calling their 
customers “un-American,” when they switch 
and buy their steel for a few dollars less from 
foreign producers?
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief................................Karl Barnhart
Business Manager..........................Russ Seligman
News Editor................................Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor.........................Chris Young
Features Editors.................................Howdy Pierce
Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor...........................................Josh Ruben
Assistant Sports Editor...................Stewart Levine
Diversions Editor.............................Michael Rose
Assistant Diversions Editor............Bruce Kasrel
Photo Assignment Editor..............Andy Gillespie
Art Editor.....................-...........Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor............................Michele Osherow
Production Manager..................Dustin L. Fra/ier
Copy Editor.....................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors...................................................
Glenn Schuster Neil Greenblum
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Drue Miller
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during 
the faH and spnng semesters, at no cost to members of the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press. Inc SuOscnptions are 
available tor $15 per semester. $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section s the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Column* are the opinions of individual au 
thors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are 
usually members of the University community A letter intended lor 
publication must be signed and include the writer s address and phone 
number tor verification Names will be withheld upon request The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter or column 
Copyright c1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves tne right 
to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Computer Science 
Early Masteries 
15-lxx
(to either Place-out or Retake)
will be offered
January 30th and 31st
Sign-up Sheets available 
at the tutors’ desk, Wean 5419
(you can sign up for ONE session)
CfflBMEBOg-MEQAfflM 
iFDMSMSDiad ana [rœnftOQMS
ON CAMPUS
The Financial Rid Office will be holding a series of forums on campus to 
discuss regulations and procedures for the 1988-1989 academic year. 
Several changes will become effective for the 1988-1989 academic 
year due to reauthorization of the Higher Education Hmendments of
1986.
Tàrtt w ms mwmsms
1. Regulatory Changes
2. Application Format Revisions
3. Rpplication Procedures
4. Eligibility Requirements
In order to accommodate academic class schedules, we are 
offering four forums on the following days:
DRTE: Thurs. January 14th DBTE: Tues., January 19th
TIME: 2-3 pm TIME: 4-5 pm
LOCUTION: UJherrett Roam - Skibo LOCUTION: UJherrett Room - Sklbo
DBTE: Wednesday, January 20ih DBTE: Thursday, February 4***
TIME: 6-7 pm TIME: 2-3 pm
LOCBTION: Porter Hall - 225C LOCATION: UJherrett Room - Sklbo
PLEBSE BTTEND BNP ENC0URB6E YOUR FRIENDS TO ftTTEND. 
THIS WOULD BE B GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO RSK RNY QUESTIONS YOU 
MBY HBUE BE6BBDIN6 FINBNCIBL BID BT CBBNEGIE-MEL LON.
MwwwwwwwmHEALTH FAI
¦ vu*
Start the New Year* Right !•'
FREE: ? p °? * f. I
teas & herbs, refreshments & samples,« 
blood pressure, nutrition information, 
massage and relaxation techniques ^ c 
TEST: * . t
your fitness, nutrition, lung capacity, * 
% of body fat „
DEMONSTRATIONS: *
stretching, karate, dance, aerobics, 
lower back exercises »
JANUARY 29- 10:00-4:00 SKIBO HALL
b
9
sponsored by SENATE & HEALTH AWARENESS 
div. of STUDENT AFFAIRS

---------------------------------------------------

Features!
On vour mark, get set. go!
Summer Job Race Begins
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Back when we were uneducated, summer job 
opportunities ranged all the way from babysit­
ting to mowing lawns. Even after we began to 
understand the summer job race, potential 
employment did not extend far beyond child 
care or basic landscaping, with perhaps a little 
work in the food service industry.
Although summer doesn’t officially start for 
five months and two days, employers are al­
ready reaching out to undergrads, and moti­
vated students can find summer work in al­
most any field.
Performers are in high demand as theme 
parks and theaters prepare for the spring and 
summer rush. In Pittsburgh, the Speech and 
Theatre department of the Community Col­
lege of Allegheny County’s North Side Cam­
pus will hold open auditions for their produc­
tion of Crimes of the Heart by Beth Henle> 
The play wilt be directed by Harvey Johnson, 
a graduate of Carnegie Mellon’s College of 
Fine Arts, and will be performed in March. 
Auditions will be held tomorrow and Thurs­
day evening at 7:30 pm in the Ridge Avenue 
Theatre-Library Building on the North Side 
Campus.
The Civic Light Opera is holding auditions 
for its first season at the Benedum Center. 
Their summer season will included perform­
ances of The Wizard of Oz, The Sound of 
Music, Grover’s Corners, and The Mystery of 
Edwin Drood. Auditions will be held at the 
Benedum Center, 719 Liberty Avenue on Feb­
ruary 20 and 21, and singers, dancers, actors 
and munchkins must call 281 -3973 to receive 
an application and appointment to audition.
For those desiring training on the other side 
of the stage, the CLO offers an apprentice pro­
gram which involves work in direction, chore­
ography, stage management, design, public re­
lations, and other theater jobs. Apprentices 
receive a weekly stipend.
On March 26, the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
School will audition students for its six week 
intensive summer training program. Classes 
include studies in technique, pointe, vari­
ations, pas de deux, character, modem, jazz, 
mime, dance history, anatomy, nutrition, and 
choreography. At the end of the six-week 
session, selected students will participate in a 
workshop performance at the Eddy Theatre of 
Chatham College. A limited number of schol­
arships are available.
The Theatre Association of Pennsylvania 
will hold auditions and interviews on February 
27 at the Rose Lehrman Arts Center on the 
Harrisburg Area Community College campus. 
Paying and non-paying positions for actors 
and theatre technicians will be offered. Appli­
cations must be submitted before January 30, 
and are available by calling (717) 846-5341.
For performers hoping to work in more tem­
perate climates, both Busch Gardens and Walt 
Disney World theme parks are holding audi­
tions for their summer season. Busch Gardens, 
The Dark Continent is an African-themed en­
tertainment park in search of singers, dancers, 
“atmosphere” entertainers (mimes, magi­
cians, jugglers), musicians, and actors/ac­
tresses as well as stage technicians and cos­
tume people. Auditions will be held on Janu­
ary 29 at the Hyatt Regency at Chatham Cen­
ter. Three- and six-month contracts are avail­
able. For further information on auditions, call 
(813) 988-5171.
Disney needs musicians. There are openings 
for 84 students in the Walt Disney World All
continued on page 17
Good Sex With Glickstein
This article is the first in a two-part series 
dealing with sex, a topic which I’m sure 
you’ll agree merits discussion during these 
chaotic days, the aftermath of the 
Iran-Contra affair. I suppose many of you 
are beginning to feel new and wonderful 
things when you find yourselves around 
certain members of the opposite sex. You 
may be wondering what these strange and 
exciting new emotions can be. Well, it’s 
sex.
This week’s installment is “An Overview 
of Sex,” in which I hope to familiarize you 
with the nature of sex around the world and 
in our own country, and how it applies to 
you.
Sex and the World
The annals of history are filled with sex. 
Many of history’s greatest men and women 
have confessed to being involved in sex, 
notably Hester Prynne, Doctor Sigmund 
Freud and Caligula. On the other side of the 
coin are people like Walt Disney,«Susan B.
Anthony, Morton Downey Jr. and Gary 
Hart.
Sex has been a motivation in many of 
history’s greatest atrocities, such as the 
continued on page 14
60 SECONDS
with Bob Glickstein
Tartan Top 12 Resolutions
By KELLY SPENCER &
JOHN KYRIACOPOULOS
Tartan Staffwriters
Well, another year’s rolled by and it’s time 
again to decide which vices we’re finally 
going to end—for at least a week or so. You ’ ve 
heard of Letterman’s Top Ten? Well, this is 
the Tartan Top Twelve-a dozen resolutions by 
eminent members of our culture.
1. Marie Antoinette vows never to lose her 
head.
2. Little Red Riding Hood vows never to cry 
wolf.
3. King Midas vows to follow the Golden 
Rule.
4. Rapunzel vows to let down her hair.
5.X3ary Hart vows to “just say no.”
6. Chicken Little vows to pick up the pieces.
7. Icharus becomes a moderate—taking the 
“middle path.”
8. Lady Macbeth vows to get out of the red.
9. McCarthy vows to get the red out.
10. Van Gogh vows to lend an ear.
11. Elizabeth Taylor just vows.
12. Linda Blair makes no resolution, getting 
caught in the “twists” of Fate.
Flvnn Forecasts Foul Weather Friends and...
Weather Conversation Full of Hot Air
Weather affects all of us. Each day brings a variation on a 
theme which influences our moods, actions and attitudes. It is, 
therefore, natural to comment on such a great part of life and 
everybody does. Each person says something about the 
weather every day. Even avid conversationalists with worlds 
of words at the tips of their tongues are addicted to making 
these banal remarks.
Despite these comments being rather dull they often inspire 
extensive discussion. It is extremely bad luck to be sitting next 
to the type of person that relishes a “good long chat about the 
weather” at dinner, for there is virtually no escape. The slow 
dull drone of their monologues eventually becomes uncom­
fortably boring. These people can conversa­
tionally dissect even the most incredible 
changes in climate and lay them out like ca­
davers. Very few people have the verbal dex­
terity to stimulate their audienct’s interest in
wet snow. And you know what that means.”
“Urn. Awful?”
“Awful? That’s not even the word for it! Think about the 
combination of Wet Snow and Zero Temperatures. It’ll be icy, 
cold, miserable and disgusting.”
At this point C.D. elaborates for several minutes despite 
interjections from the victim like:
“Did you hear about Squeaky Fromm’s escape?” or “How 
about that Judge Bork?” even direct questions which virtually 
demand a response, (such as “Do you know what time it is?” or 
“I feel sick. Do you know where the nearest bathroom is?”) fall 
on deaf ears.
By Sara Flynn
the weather for more than 5 or 10 seconds, but 
that does not stop many from trying. Even as 
the other participant attempts to change the 
subject, they hang on. Here is a typical conver­
sation between a climate discusser and his vic­
tim.
“How do you like this weather?” C.D. grins as he saunters up 
to his acquaintance.
“God, it’s awfully cold.”
“Cold! It’s 14 degrees, but with the wind chill factor it takes 
it down to about 3, and then you’ve got the possibility of snow.”
“Snow isn’t so bad, though.”
“Sure it’s not bad—If it’s just a few flakes. But we’re talking
Most men and women subscribe to the average weather 
attitude on this campus. They fervently race across campus 
commenting jubilantly on the weather, as it exists that particu­
lar season. They aren’t swayed by the idiosyncrasies of the 
daily variations.
“It is so cold” is a greeting which has replaced the traditional 
“Hello. How are you?” People zip by, hailing each other with
their assessment of the temperature, as they blame winter fri­
gidity for keeping them from pausing to chat. Others use the 
traditional “Hi” or “Whassup?” outdoors and keep their curs­
ing the inadequacy of weather conditions to elevator rides, and 
long waits in line. These habits are inexplicable.
One of the few people to refrain from making these insults 
was surprisingly enough. King Lear, when he said, “I tax not 
you, you elements with unkindness.” This attitude is com­
mendable. Here was a man wandering lost in one of the worst 
tempests created in the world of dramatics, yet he still refrained 
from blaming the climate.
Another such noble soul and optimistic conversationalist is 
Emily Parker who tries to cut down on talking 
about the weather, while simultaneously tak­
ing advantage of winter any way she can. Her 
comment was “It’s kind of cool.”
That of course is one of the undeniable truths 
about the weather. So is Mark Twain’s famous 
comment: “People always talk about the 
weather and nobody ever does anything about 
it.”
Remarks like these two can be used to pick up 
a Climate Conversation headed nowhere. 
They can avert the progress of boredom in a 
peaceful manner, and dissuade negative feel­
ings often professed during winter months. 
Here are a few more to spice up old aquain- 
tances.
“I’ve lived in a good climate but it bores the 
hell out of me.” John Steinbeck, Travels With 
Charley.
And on rainy days, “This is Methodist 
weather, sprinkling. We Baptists prefer total 
immersion.” Adam Clayton Powell, in a com­
ment before a parade in Harlem in 1964. 
During hot weather, “What dreadful hot weather we have, it 
keeps me in a continual state of inelegance.” Jane Austen, in a 
letter to her sister.
And erf course, the brilliant pearl of wisdom from Oscar 
Wilde, which is definitely worth consideration. “Whenever 
people talk to me about the weather I always feel they mean 
something else.”

---------------------------------------------------

. Page 14—The Tartan—January 19,1988
It’s two minutes to Morewood, right?
Oflk*«f**H^rtrar
5000 Forte* /RETUR^O FTP °rTTFR ADDRESS 
SHOW UUUNlK. ¿1 OlSIiNAìION 
IN ENGUStLA NO ABBREVIATIONS
jksoa oiscH
BOI g02g MOREMOOD CàRBfiS 
ROOM 6 TOO OR 4P MtMtlTS
Over Christmas Break the Registrar’s office sent this envelope Air Mail—for 
440—across Forbes Avenue to Morewood Gardens. But the Post Office 
couldn’t understand the campus mail address, so it was returned with the 
request to “show country of destination in English.” And you wonder why they 
can’t get your schedule right_
Climactic Moments in Sex History
rdu l, ubd uf’gp ul ’ igblR’fibI4
An Air Force ROTC 
scholarship may get you on the 
right track to success. Find out if you 
qualify for tuition and other expenses, phis 
$100 each academic month. Get on the 
right track Talk to:
Capt Scotl Carey 
413-268-8747
3^5 r
Leadership Excellence Starts Here
continued from page 13
Trojan War (in which King Menelaus became 
furious when he discovered that his beautiful 
wife Helen was going off to Paris and taking 
along a package of condoms), the St. 
Valentine’s Day Massacre, and the introduc­
tion of New Coke.
On the other hand, sex has been a motivation 
in many of history’s most touching moments, 
such as the Bob Glickstein Massive 
Wimp-Out, when for the sake of sex, a promi­
nent college columnist told a girl that he would 
“climb the highest mountain” and so on.
Other great moments include the recent sale 
of Napoleon’s formaldehyde-preserved penis 
to a collector for over a thousand dollars (I am 
not making this up), as well as the publication 
of the recent bestseller, Vanna Speaks.
Sex and America
The United States has a long history of inven­
tion and innovation. The telephone, the as­
sembly line, the airplane, the Starship Enter­
prise. So it is no surprise to the world that the 
United States has taken a major innovative 
step in the field of sex: to be the first country 
in the history of civilization to make it illegal. 
Important advances have already been made 
toward this difficult goal. For instance, in 
many progressive communities throughout 
the country, it is illegal for anyone under the 
age of eighty to read Shakespeare’s Hamlet, in 
which the title character seems to wish nothing 
more than to put his “head” in Ophelia’s “lap” 
and speak to her of “country matters.” Also,
the recent blockbuster film Broadcast News 
features a scene in which Holly Hunter con­
spicuously drops a package of Trojans in her 
purse before going out. What is the director, 
James L. Brooks, trying to say to us? He is 
saying: Shun this woman, she is an anachro­
nistic holdover from our barbarous past; she 
wants to have sex. Yuck!
Exclusive to The Tartan: Proposed legisla-
Sex (please circle one):
LFemaleForget it
O
tion, now under debate in the Senate, would 
require all condom manufacturers to include a 
prominently-placed warning on all packages 
of condoms which would read as follows: 
“WARNING: Indulgence in sexual inter­
course rips away your veneer of civilization; 
leads to babies, heart attacks, war, and awful 
poetry; and besides, if you wear one of these 
things, you’ll look like an obscene clown and 
she’ll point and laugh.”
Sex and You 
If you wish to be courageous and pursue sex 
despite the direction that this country seems to 
be taking, all I can say is more power to you, 
although I would advise against killing your 
father so that you can sleep with your mother, 
which apparently is a common desire and was 
dramatized in the 1950s television series, “Mr. 
Oed.”
Honesty is the keyword for sex in the Eight­
ies. In other ages, elaborate “come-ons” were 
necessary, but today the respected way to 
make your desire known is as follows. Choose 
a member of the opposite sex, approach him or 
her and respectfully introduce yourself, say­
ing, “I am here in an attempt to have sex with 
you. Please indicate your receptiveness to this 
suggestion.” If the person to whom you are 
speaking is a filthy-minded Shakespeare 
reader, you can expect to be having sex within 
a matter of minutes.
Sex and Me 
I really, really, really like sex. If you share 
my interest, please fill out and return the cou­
pon below.
Yes! I'm interested in sex. I
I Enroll me in the Glickstein Sex Program. I
| Name _______________________________|
I Phone _______________________________I
o
o
J
TO
CALCULUS
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ECONOMICS
ACADEMIC WRITING
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
REE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
PH 107-A 
PH 107-B 
PH 225-B 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH5409
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 15
' 1938-1988: Fifty Years of Campus Plans
PLANS FOR EXPANDED CAMPUS
Alfred Morton Githens and Francis Kcally, Architects
g Administration Building 5 Student Activities Building
2 Library (Carnegie Union)
3 Auditorium 6 Gymnasium
4 Theater 7 Women's Dormitory
8 WednsayJeu er 2u7Juaa,Ju7 19Js8Ju7R9 WednsayJeu er fh,7h,ay fe,,JReu Wh,ua7Ja Wessa7a
photo courtesy University Archives
One of the architects who designed the 1938 campus plan, Francis Keally, wrote that the plan had been designed for a “program of
development covering a period possibly fifty years to come.” Like the current plan, it called for a student center, a 600-seat theatre,
an auditorium, more parking spaces, and improved athletic facilities. No part of the 1938 plan was constructed.
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
This spring marks the fiftieth anniversary of 
the first campus plan that sought to improve 
upon the original design. In the last half cen- 
£ tury, a half dozen plans have been proposed, 
some producing only charming models while 
others have reshaped the campus.
These plans have strived to complete or 
complement the famed Hombostel design. In 
1904 the firm of Palmer and Hombostel beat 
43 other competitors in winning the design 
competition for a technical school Andrew 
. Carnegie had recently endowed.
'0 Soon thereafter, Henry Hombostel moved to 
Pittsburgh to start Carnegie Tech’s school of 
architecture. While here, he continued to 
rework his plan as construction began. Two 
revisions are known to exist.
The original design, which has been called 
“overly ambitious” in at least one University 
document, would have erected a continuous 
ring of buildings along the campus’s parame- 
ter. Remnants of this plan, crafted to maximize 
the internal space of the original 32 acres, can 
be seen in the arrangement of some of 
Hombostel’s first buildings: Hamerschlag, 
Porter, and Baker.
The subsequent plans paired down the pa­
rameter idea and begot the other buildings, 
which can be easily recognized by their dis­
tinct brick: Doherty, CFA, and Margaret 
^ Morrison.
In addition, Hombostel designed the Bureau 
of Mines building shortly before he left to 
serve in the first world war.
His last building, the gymnasium, was fin­
ished in 1924.
1938—Rotate the Field
In 1938 the architects Alfred Morton Githers 
and Francis Keally released the campus plan 
® pictured above. Only one part of the plan was 
ever carried out—Tech Field was rotated. No 
funds were available to carry out the construc­
tion called for by the plan.
One intriquing aspect of this plan was the 
design for the women’s dormitory. An elegant 
building, it would have stood where Skibo and 
its parking lot are today. It featured a clock 
tower.
^ The women’s school in the Margaret Morri­
son building would have been connected to the 
dorm with an arcade and a tunnel. Women 
would have ridden an elevator from the tunnel 
into their dorm.
The purchase of Morewood Gardens re­
moved the need for the women’s dormitory.
In many ways the 1938 plan resembles the 
current plan. Both were designed, in part, by 
^ an alumnus.
Both call for a 600-seat theatre which would 
include modem facilities and would provide
the drama department with a stage worthy of 
its national standing.
The student center in the 1938 plan would 
have been a renovated gymnasium. A new 
gym would have been built beside the athletic 
field, a more sensible location.
Even with fewer students, parking was a 
problem fifty years ago. The plan called for 
additional spaces to be built.
A Decade Filled with Plans
The next plan was announced in April, 1957, 
with much fanfare. This development pro­
gram included a $24 million fund raising 
campaign, Carnegie Tech’s first. The devel­
opment committee included Secretary of 
Defense Charles E. Wilson, as well as the 
Chairmen of U.S. Steel and Westinghouse, 
and Richard King Mellon.
This plan and its 1959 revision shaped the 
current campus. Built were Skibo, Scaife, and 
Hunt Library. Doherty Apartments and 
Mudge’s wings were built for graduate hous­
ing, and ’Schlag was constructed to house 
undergraduate men. Porter and Baker were 
also connected as a result of this plan.
In 1962 the Oakland Corporation, backed by 
a consortium including Carnegie Tech, Pitt, 
Carnegie Institute, and Oakland health cen­
ters, unveiled plans for a $250 million indus­
trial park.
A section of this plan included an “upside 
down” building that would have arched over 
Panther Hollow and would have housed re­
search facilities for Tech and Pitt.
A much more modest plan, designed by 
Lewis C. McCaling in 1963, succeeded in 
producing only Warner Hall. Notably, it pro­
posed extending Skibo along the Cut and 
suggested two research buildings on the spot 
where Wean stands now.
The proposal for what would become Wean 
Hall surfaced in 1967 with the next plan. 
Developed by the firm Sasaki Walter deMay, 
this plan also suggested Skibo be expanded 
along the Cut.
After Wean Hall was completed in the early 
1970’s, the frequent planning and construc­
tion of the previous decade suddenly halted. 
Not until the nation and Pittsburgh recovered 
from the economic slump of the 1970s, did the 
plans return.
The Cyert Years
Three plans have been promulgated under 
Dr. Cyert’s leadership.
The first was an elaborate Athletic Facilities 
Plan that was developed in 1984. It called for 
$18.6 million in specific improvements.
The second was the most comprehensive 
plan ever conducted for Carnegie Mellon. The 
CRS/Sirrine Master Plan ranged from a design 
for a conference center to a description of the 
proper types of trees to plant on campus.
Most prominent in this design was the Forbes 
Avenue Complex, a hotel/conference center 
that would have been built on the Morewood 
parking lot.
The plan also called for a high-rise dormitory 
as an anchor for the Cut as part of its total 
philosophy. This master plan called for the 
development of a “clear sense of arrival” for 
the campus.
CRS/S suggested that this “front door” be 
placed in the center of campus. This idea 
greatly influenced the latest plan which rec­
ommends colonnades that would line the Cut 
to define an entrance to campus.
The 1985 Master Plan was the third to sug­
gest an expansion to Skibo. One wing would 
have jutted north into the Skibo parking lot and 
would have held a theater. The southern wing 
would have held athletic facilities, including a 
pool.
While the new plan is dominated by a ravine 
that would be carved in the Cut, the CRS/S 
plan suggested a series of buildings built on
steppes that would range from the Cut to 
Junction Hollow.
The plan also included an Electronic Materi­
als Technology building in the hollow at the 
base of Hamerschlag Hall and a GSIA expan­
sion.
The Commission to Evaluate the President 
was highly critical of President Cyert for “the 
apparent, almost immediate, disregard” of this 
plan. The report continued, “It is hard to es­
cape the conclusion that the money spent on 
this plan was wasted.”
The model of the Caudill, Rolett and Scott 
Master Plan can be seen on the third floor of 
Hunt Library near the microfiche collection.
Parallels: 1957 and 1985
The events of recent years are strikingly 
similar to the late fifties. Building plans and 
fundraising programs were announced in both 
1957 and 1985. In both cases revised plans 
were released two years later.
If past events are any measure, much of this 
latest plan will become reality, just as the 1959 
revised plan did.
The 1987 plan, however, is also as unlikely 
as its predecessor to spawn a dramatic arts 
center.
Key in devising a successful plan is a strong 
fundraising program and early construction. 
Once alumni and other contributors realize 
that the Administration is serious, they will be 
more willing to donate.
On the other hand, if alumni see capital 
campaign funds drained into the Bureau of 
Mines renovation and a new physical plant 
building, rather than a new student center, 
contributions will be hard to raise.
If so, the 1987 plan will soon deserve a spot 
in the Hall of Forgotten Plans.
A Guide to Campus Plans:
•Palmer & Hombostel, 1904 
•Hombostel’s 1906 
•Hombostel’s 1911 
•Githens & Keally, 1938 
•Development Plan 1957 (revised 
1959)
•Junction Hollow Plan, 1962 
I »McCaling, 1963
•Sasaki Walker deMay. 1967 
•Athletic Facilities Plan. 1984 
•CRS/Sirrine Plan, 1984/85 
•Dennis & Clark. 1987
Hr—Ju\-T
19591
19631CFA
Hunt
Every campus plan for the last fifty years has included a 600-seat theatre as part of a 
Dramatic Arts Center. Its proposed location on campus, however, has varied.

---------------------------------------------------

The
Data General 
difference:
"It's three years' experience in one."
That’s what the college graduates who choose Data General will tell you. We 
put real work on your desk and advanced tools in your hands.
In most cases you’re part of a small design team within your first month on 
the job. By six months you’re deeply involved in an important project. Work­
ing with technology that’s still being invented — by you. In a year you’ll have 
completed a significant piece of design. Learned certain tricks of your trade 
concerning speed, space and elegance. And gained in confidence and mastery.
Meanwhile, some of your classmates who choose other companies may still be 
in manuals. Or learning by watching, in “third apprentice solderer” types of 
jobs.
Obviously Data General is a little different. Smaller and more unconventional 
than the obvious choices. The college graduates who choose us, choose oppor­
tunity. Which makes all the difference in their careers.
Make a difference. Explore a career with us in one of these areas:
* CPU Design
* Operating Systems
* Communications and 
Networking
* Office Automation
* Technical Workstations
* Languages Development
* Software Support
* PCs and Terminals
* Mass Storage Engineering
Write to Data General, Corporate College RelationsrGRE, 4400 
Computer Drive, Westboro, Massachusetts 01580.
4 r Data General
Investing in people to make equal opportunity a reality.

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 17
«
The Dangers 
of NGU
Question: I am a 19-year-old sexually 
active male who has had burning on 
urination. I was told I have NGU. What 
is it and how do you get it?
Answer: Nongonococcal urethritis 
(NGU) is a venereal disease that causes 
an inflammation of the urethra. It can 
occur alone or in combination with 
gonorrhea. The most common cause is 
an organism called chlamydia.
Symptoms include a discharge from
the penis, burning or discomfort on uri­
nation and a sensation of itching at the 
tip of the penis. Diagnosis is made by 
obtaining cultures from the urethra.
NGU is treated with antibiotics, 
namely tetracycline or erythromycin. If 
left untreated, inflammation of the pros­
tate and epididymis (a structure near the 
testicle) can result. Because NGU is 
sexually transmitted, while the male is 
being treated, he should either abstain 
from sexual intercourse or wear a con­
dom. Often the female partner needs to 
be treated with antibiotics at the same 
time as the male.
Questions to What’s Up, Doc? can he 
submitted by mailing them to ¦
What’s Up, Doc?
Skibo Box 53
Job Search 9 88
continued from page 13
American Bands and All American College 
Orchestra, which involve 40-hour work weeks 
and up to six shows daily. Disney provides 
housing, transportation, a salary, and work­
shops. The closest auditions to Pittsburgh will 
be held in Washington, D.C. on January 26. 
Call (305) 345-5710 for more information.
Of course, most of us aren’t CFA students. 
EIP/Great Lakes (formerly The Environ­
mental Intern Program) is accepting applica­
tions from students desiring training in re­
source management, environmental protec­
tion, health and safety, and community devel­
opment. Forty positions are available for stu­
dents with backgrounds in engineering, biol­
ogy, public health, journalism, and other stud­
ies. Applications are due on February 1 and are 
available from Career Services.
Fiction and poetry writers also have a place 
in the summer job rush. The National Society 
of Arts and Letters is holding a short story 
competition for writers between the ages of 19 
and 30. Stories must be 3000 to 6000 words 
long and previously unpublished. The Pitts­
burgh Chapter of NSAL will present awards 
ranging form $100 to $600, and the first place 
winner will be entered in the national compe­
tition where the prizes range from $2000 to 
$5000. Submission deadline is February 15. 
For more information call Elaine Morris, Ca­
reer Award Chairman at 621-8240.
Six poets will be invited to give half-hour 
readings of their work at the 1988 Literature 
Festival series during the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival. Poets may submit up to five poems, 
each on separate pieces of paper, with name 
and address on another separate sheet. The 
poets chosen will receive compensation. Ten 
other poets will be invited to read at the Fes­
tival. Entries should be mailed by March 4 to 
Three Rivers Arts Festival, 207Sweetbriar St., 
Pittsburgh, 15211, Attn: Poetry Chairperson.
m
•“Field to Factory:
Afro-American Mi­
gration, 1915- 
1940,” a Smith­
sonian Institution 
exhibition of arti­
facts and photo­
graphs from Black 
families who moved 
from the rural South to the industrial North, 
is appearing at CMU’s Hunt Library 
through February 7. Fourth Floor. Free. 
Wednesday, January 20:
•Margy Whitmer and Paul Lally, producer 
and director of Mister Rogerj’ Neighbor­
hood, will speak at noon at the YWCA 
located at 305 Wood Street. Their topic is 
“Mister Rogers Makes a Bridge to 
Moscow.” Sponsored by Pennsylvania 
Peace Links. Free.
•It’s “Pirate Parrot Night” at the Schenley 
Park Ice Rink from 7:00 to 9:30 pm. Cost is 
$2.00 for adults plus $1.00 for skate rental. 
•The Reverend John Perkins will speak on 
community development at the Bethany 
Baptist Church at 7734 Tioga Street in 
Homewood. Perkins will also present his 
autobiographical film, John Perkins: Cry 
Justice. 7:00 pm. Free.
Friday, January 22:
•General Sir Thomas Morony, Britain’s 
representative to the NATO military com­
mittee, will speak on “Differences in 
NATO Among Friends & Allies” at 12:15 
pm in the Conference Room on the 18th 
floor of the Pittsburgh National Building. 
Sponsored by the World Affairs Council of 
Pittsburgh. $2 for non-members. Advance 
reservations required at 281-7970. 
Saturday, January 23:
•The Pittsburgh chapter of the National 
Abortion Rights Action League (NARAL) 
will sponsor a discussion by Barbara Fer­
raro and Patricia Hussey, two controversial 
pro-abortion nuns. 7:00 to 9:00 pm at
Temple Rodef Sha­
lom hea Morewood 
Avenue. A $10 do­
nation is requested. 
For more informa­
tion call NARAL at 
471-1507.
•The Great Train, 
Dolihouse, and Toy 
Show will begin at 1:00 am at the Pitts­
burgh Expo Mart in Monroeville. Cost is 
$4. For more information contact Linda 
Greenberg at 301-795-7447. Through 
Sunday.
Sunday, January 24:
•A free concert medley of Black religious 
music entitled “Reflections on the Church 
in the Migration” will be presented at 3:00 
pm in CMU’s Kresge Theater.
Monday, January 25:
•“Can America Still Have a Foreign Pol­
icy” will be the topic of a speech given by 
Amaud de Borchgrave, Editor-in-Chief of 
The Washington Times and insight maga­
zine. At 12:45 pm in the Pittsburgh Press 
Club at 600 Sixth Avenue downtown. Cost 
is $3. Advance reservations at 281-7970 
are necessary. Sponsored by the World 
Affaire Council of Pittsburgh. 
Wednesday, January 27:
•Yolanda King, daughter of Martin Luther 
King, Jr., will speak in the Physical Educa­
tion Building at the Allegheny Campus of 
tfie Community College of Allegheny 
County. King’s lecture, “A Dream De­
ferred,” will both commemorate her 
father’s birthday and inaugurate the cele­
bration of Black History Month at the 
Allegheny Campus. Free.
Thursday, January 28:
•Carnegie Mellon’s Department of Psy­
chology will sponsor a speech by Dr. 
Lance Rips of the University of Chicago on 
“The Psychology of Proof’ at 4:00 pm in 
the Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. Free.
! CITY LIGHTS
«
%
I
*
Limited Number of Penguins Tickets 
on Sale
Pens vs. Edmonton Game 
Monday, January 25th
.
Two Tickets per person, $10.00 each
CMU ID required !
On sale Wednesday, January 20, 9:00 am 
Skibo Information Desk
Sponsored by Department of Student Activities |

---------------------------------------------------

After graduation from Carnegie Mellon 
University, John Norris was selected to 
join The May Department Stores7 
Executive Training Program.
:JOO 5flî 7?
Now John is responsible for running a $6 million 
home store business!
Class of 1987 
Assistant Buyer 
May Company
John knew he had what it takes for success!
Are you ready 
to join 
our team?
The May Department Stores Company will be 
interviewing for our Executive
Training Program:
JANUARY 19,1988
For more information contact your placement office 
or call Paige Leone, Executive Recruitment, 412-232-2148.
MAYTHE BUSINESS OF RETAILING
The May Department Stores Company, 611 Olive Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63101

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 19.The Yankee Redneck Goes Home
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor
Over the winter break, I went to the 29th 
Liberty Bowl in Memphis, Tennessee to see 
the Georgia Bulldogs take on the Arkansas 
Razorbacks. I won’t give a summary of the 
game, it’s ancient history by now. I want to 
talk about the certain elements present in that
4ft game which are a complete mystery to most 
CMU students and would be fans. The Lib­
erty Bowl is a post season football game of 
some importance. This year, though, there 
was no National Championship on the line, no 
Heisman Trophy winner leading his team to 
victory, and no parades. However, this was a 
game involving a classic Southern Football 
rivalry; the Hawgs and Dawgs.
^ Most people have been to big football games 
involving rivalries. After all, not many con­
tests can compete with the excitement sur­
rounding the annual Pitt-Penn State game. 
So, on the surface, there was nothing all that 
spectacular about this game to the average 
fan. But the excitement surrounding this 
game wasnot uncommon to the crowd. Every 
game these teams play is an anxiously awaited
# event, no matter who the opponent is. I 
watched with wide eyes and a smile as over 
20,000 Georgia fans hollered “Go Dawgs! 
Sick 'em Woof Woof!” while 20,000 Arkan­
sas fans stood and screamed “Soooeeeee, 
Pig! ” I wondered, “What kind of sound would 
a Tartan make?”
I saw little kids with as much enthusiasm 
about the game as their fathers who had actu-
# ally gone to one of the schools. They were 
sharing in the experience. There were girls 
yelling and screaming not because their boy­
friends happened to be playing, but because 
they loved the game. I found out that not all 
women are uninterested or naive when it 
comes to sports. I saw an old man with his 
entire face painted red with “Georgia” on his 
forehead while his wife had “Bulldogs”
r painted on her head (no red face though). 
Arkansas students wearing huge, plastic pigs 
on their heads; all of them having a ball. I 
couldn’t help but get caught up in it. I never 
thought “How immature” or “Where is their 
dignity?” For those two hours, I was a red-
XQ
Congratulations to our great new sisters
¿Amy 
¿Anna 
Wettrie 
*De ¿/Inna 
Elizabeth
3°y
Otikki
AkE ImE yoa Jl!
—The sisters of Chi Omega.
SPRING BREAK *88:
THIS ONE’S ON US
Spring Break Capital, DAYTONA BEACH, 
FLORIDA wants your business! SO, we've put 
together a SPRING BREAK PACKAGE to heip 
your budget! The Package includes over $400 
worth of FREE DRINK PASSES and V.I.P. 
CARDS from all the HOTTEST NIGHT CLUBS! 
THIS YEAR, most Clubs are allowing 18 yrs 
and up entrance! This Package is 
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED! 
LIMITED OFFER. One time only. Send $10.00 
check or money order for handling to:
SPRING BREAK V.I.P.
THE TAUSSIG CORP.
OF DAYTONA BEACH 
P.O BOX 5727
DAYTONA BEACH, FL 32018
neck too and loved it, by God.
Driving back to Atlanta, I thought about 
how great it would be to go to a school with 
that type of spirit, sense of identity, and over­
all unity among the students and alumni. The 
fans were not divided by fraternity, sorority, 
or any other type club. Here, one is a Pika or 
DG first, and a CMU Tartan last. Everyone at 
that game was either Bulldog or Razorback, 
and not just the players on the field either. 
Occasionally I would see some Greek letters 
in the crowd, but the person wearing them 
would be singing the school fight song in­
stead of one of the fraternity drinking chants. 
In talking and interacting with those people 
(most of whom were total strangers at first), I 
saw how football was a religion to some and 
a simple outlet for others. But to almost all of 
them, college sports in general are important 
events, without which, school would be a real 
“drag.” Unfortunately, here football and 
sports in general are treated as curiosities and 
sadly, as low forms of entertainment.
All last semester, everyone kept complain­
ing about the Quality of Life and what the 
UNIVERSITY should do to improve on it. I 
am sick of all of the same tired complaints 
about how life here stinks. One way to im­
prove your own quality of life may be to 
simply get off your rear end and go see your
teams play. It couldn’t hurt and you might 
even enjoy it.
Intramural sports are a great help. The CMU 
Athletic Department does a fantastic job in the 
planning and execution of the various IM 
sports and a lot of students do participate. But 
I’m talking about the CMU teams, not the 
student IM teams. Two very different ideas.
Collegiate sports are not given a great deal of 
emphasis here as they are at other schools, 
which is fine; the main purpose for going to 
school is to get an education. However, that 
does not take away from the importance of 
having sports; they can provide a source of 
badly needed entertainment, as well as help 
provide a sense of identity and unity for the 
students. They should be events to look for­
ward to. Based on what I saw and participated 
in at the Liberty Bowl, I feel somewhat 
cheated when I go to our sporting events and 
am met by a handful of fans, most with a 
minimum of enthusiasm.
I am sure that I am not alone in my opinion. 
The ideas I have expressed here are not new to 
this school, but I have just been frustrated for 
too long about the incredible amount of apathy 
towards the sports scene on this campus (not to 
mention the apathy towards numerous other 
scenes). Instead of getting interested in our 
college teams, we take interest in and only
really get excited over buggy. Not only is this 
a joke, but a real tragedy. By putting all of our 
attention on an activity (I shy away from 
referring to buggy as a sport) which only takes 
place within the confines of our own school, 
we miss out on the opportunity to really take 
advantage of the social interaction offered by 
collegiate athletics. With the formation of the 
new University Athletic Association, of 
which CMU is a member, students have a 
wonderful opportunity to meet people from 
other schools from all over the country. For­
tunately, the Pitt Panthers are only a few 
blocks away and provide means for people to 
really take part in collegiate sports and all the 
excitement surrounding them. I would rather 
see CMU play—it just gets a bit lonely in the 
stands though.
Tartan Sports 
Staff Meeting 
Wednesday at 6 
pm. Jpe There!
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERS -
Join BP America
at the start 
of a new era.
Exciting opportunities for career growth are developing at 
BP America. We are seeking well qualified Engineers for 
major divisions of the company: Refining, Transportation. 
Marketing, and Chemicals.
BP AMERICA was formed recently by the combination of 
two famous and complementary firms... Standard Oil and 
BP North America.
Standard Oil, founded by John D. Rockefeller in 1870. is 
recognized as an outstanding refiner and marketer as well 
as a major holder of petroleum reserves. British Petroleum, 
one of the most active oil producing companies in the 
North Sea, the Middle East and Alaska, is known as a great 
explorer and producer. Now, building on more than 100 
years of experience. BP America is preparing for a new era 
of growth.
We start from a sound base - $24 billion In assets. 43XXX) 
people worldwide, and sales volume that ranks us 13th 
among American industrial companies. We are expanding 
activities in both oil and diversified businesses - chemicals, 
coal, minerals and precious metals, computer software, 
structural ceramics, carbon fibers, and more.
We encourage students who are receiving a Bachelor’s 
degree in CHEMICAL, MECHANICAL, CIVIL, or ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING to discuss opportunities with us. We will be 
interviewing on campus toon - schedule an interview NOW 
with your placement office. If you are unable to meet with 
us on campus, send your resume to: University Relations;
BP America; P.O. Box 94694; Cleveland. OH 44101-4694.
An Equa) Opportunity Employe*
BP AMERICA
a wtx5«y owned *uto«Jdiary of Brttkh Petroleum Company p.I.c.

---------------------------------------------------

ATTENTION!
GOODNEWS
Weight 
Watchers
ATTENTION!At Work/School Program Continued
For Newcomers 
and
For those of you who want to continue
Sign up by calling ext. 2075
Student Affairs, WH #.206 
January 19- 25,1988
ALL CARNIVAL BOOTH CHAIRPERSONS!
: ' * ... _ .
The next Spring Carnival Booth 
meeting will be on Thursday;
¦ <
January 28, Room 13 at 9:30PM
Any organization interested in 
having a booth this year is required 
to send a representative.
Agenda:
- Developing theme standards
- Announce Carnival Slogon
- Establish future meeting times
Please contact David Lyons if you nave any questions. 521-4668
Starting
January 25,1988
Fee
$58.00for the 8 week Program 
(payable 1st class)
Classes
Mondays, Skibo Rm. 12, noon to 1:00 p.m.
JANUARY. 30, 1988
rickets Available At Skibo 
information Desk Starting 
[December 1st, 1987
6:00 P.M.
St. Nicholas
Greek Orthodox Church 
(Near Carnegie Institute)
$12.50 Per Person 
Open To All CMU Students
FUNDED BY CIT/MCS 
ORGANIZED BY S.W.E.

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 21
r<Lady Tartans Seesaw Through Mid-Season
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter 
An old adage states that the sum is greater 
than its parts. The Lady Tartans spent the 
winter break working on getting the team 
concept into their game, and the results have 
^ shown. Carnegie Mellon went 2-2 over the 
break, and opened up their President’s Ath­
letic Conference (PAC) season this past week, 
posting a 1-1 mark. The break included a 57- 
55 decision over Heidelberg College and a 61- 
59 win over University Athletic Association 
(UAA) opponent University of Chicago.
The Lady Tartans were handed a 50 point 
setback against Gannon and a ten point loss to 
Trenton State, 52-42. In PAC play, the Lady 
Tartans went to Cleveland and were handed a 
62-48 beating by the Lady Blue Streaks of 
John Carroll, but bounced back by beating 
Hiram on the road 73-59.
The first game of the winter break was played 
December 4th at UAA rival New York Uni­
versity. Junior forward Aimee Reber paced 
CMU with 20 points, but that was not enough 
to hold off the strong Violet offense led by 
center Patti McCrudden. The NYU senior 
dumped in 18 points and garnered 18 rebounds 
to pace the Violets to a 20 point victory, 75-55.
The Lady Tartans reported back to Pitts­
burgh on the 27th of December, to prepare for 
their first-ever New Year’s tournament at 
Skibo Gym. The Lady Tartans advanced to the 
final round after beating Heidelberg College, 
57-55. Heidelberg was ranked third in the 
Midwest region of Division III NCAA before 
the game, but Reber’s 15 points and 8 re­
bounds led the team to the win. “Everyone 
contributed to the win,” remarked Lady Tartan 
Head Coach Gerri Seidl. “We played well as 
a team, and when we do that, we are almost 
guaranteed a victory.”
In the Championship, the Lady Tartans were 
up against Trenton State, ranked number one
in the East Division III poll. Trenton touted a 
75 point per game average, but were held in 
check by a tenacious Lady Tartan defense to 
almost 20 points below their average in defeat­
ing Carnegie Mellon, 52-42.
A key to the low score was the Tartans’ 
shifting defenses. Carnegie Mellon played 
three types of zone defenses that had everyone 
scratching their heads. “I let the players on the
cago. The game went down to the wire before 
it was finally decided. However, the outcome 
was not so clear early on in the contest. Chi­
cago was ahead by as many as 10 points in the 
first half, but the Lady Tartans were able to 
regroup and pull to within three by the end of 
the first 20 minutes.
With the Lady Tartans not faring well against 
the press employed by Maroons, Seidl
photo by Andy Gillespie
Donna Spicuzza grapples for a loose ball against Westminster
court call the defenses, and at times, I am not 
sure what they are playing,” commented Seidl. 
The Lady Tartans, though, were hampered by 
turnovers and missed shots at key points in the 
second half, but Coach Seidl was very pleased 
with the overall performance of her players. 
Seidl emphasized, “Playing as well as we did 
against schools of that caliber is very encour­
aging for the coaches as well as the players.” 
After a 50 point defeat at the hands of Divi­
sion II powerhouse Gannon University, the 
Lady Tartans hopped back on the UAA shuttle 
to Chicago to take on the University of Chi­
changed her offense by putting in junior Rose- 
anna Neupauer at point guard. The switch was 
necessary because the Lady Tartans second 
leading scorer, Lisa Lightner (10.8 points per 
game) was on the bench with foul trouble. 
“Roseanna was able to beat the press and really 
picked up the team,” said Seidl.
The game was close throughout the second 
half, but tragedy struck Carnegie Mellon with 
seven minutes remaining. The Lady Tartans’ 
leading scorer, Aimee Reber (13.6 points and 
6.4 rebounds per game), went down with an 
ankle sprain. “I was going out on defense to
block a shot, and fell wrong on my foot,” 
remembered Reber. Without their biggest 
scoring threat, the Lady Tartans had to play 
tougher defense, and were led by Donna 
Spicuzza. The sophomore guard's defense 
helped the Tartans move ahead by two points 
with 30 seconds left on the clock.
With 24 ticks left in regulation, the Lady 
Maroons scored to tie the game at 59 a piece. 
With one time out remaining, the Lady Tartans 
pushed the ball past half court and called their 
last time out to set up for the last shot. “We set 
up to have Lisa and Beth (Virgin) drive the 
lanes, and hope for a shot with around five sec­
onds, so if we missed we could get a rebound 
and one more shot,” recalled Seidl.
The plan worked to perfection; with six sec­
onds on the clock, Beth Virgin was fouled in 
the process of shooting, and was sent to the line 
for two shots. With ice water in her veins, the 
junior pumped in her game high thirteenth and 
fourteenth points, putting the Tartans ahead 
for good 61-59.
To open up the PAC season last week, the 
Lady Tartans had to take their longest confer­
ence trip of the year first, traveling to Cleve­
land to take on the John Carroll Lady Blue 
Streaks. The Lady Tartans, Lady Blue 
Streaks, and Lady Tomcats of Thiel College 
are expected to be the tree top teams in the con­
ference, so right away CamegieMellon was 
going to be put to the test. Without the services 
of Reber, coach Seidl felt that the teamwork 
that allowed them to beat Chicago could carry 
them out of Cleveland with a win.
The Lady Tartans and Blue Streaks got out of 
the gate slowly; it took almost three and a half 
minutes before the first points were on the 
board. Carnegie Mellon got into foul trouble 
early, as sophomore center Tricia Chorgo was 
charged with two personal fouls at the 15:34 
mark of the first half.
continued on page 23
ALL ORGANIZATIONS 
PARTICIPATE IN
BASKET BUCKS
A Single Elimination Basketball 
Tourney - JAN 30th
IM Rules - $100 First Prize
$35 entrance fee - Free shirts to all entered -16 teams only
Benefits: MS for more info,
Asthma call Mark - 683-6925
Children's Hospital or Denise - 268-5956

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Calendar
January 19: Swimming vs, Bethany College at Pool, 4:00 pm
January 20: Women’s Basketball vs. Thiel College at Skibo Gym, 6:00 pm
Men’s Basketball vs. Thiel College at Skibo Gym, 8:00 pm 
January 21: Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm
January 22-23: Swimming at Kenyon Invitational
January 23: Women’s B ’ball vs. Washington University at Skibo Gym, 2:00 pm (WRCT)
Hockey at West Virginia University, 4:30 pm 
Men’s Basketball at Washington University, 7:30 pm (WRCT)
January 24: Hockey vs University of Pittsburgh at Lakeview, 1:30 pm
Basketball Standings
UAA Men-UAAWLUAA Men-OverallWL
Rochester20Rochester81
New York41New York104
Emory33Emory54
Carnegie Mellon22Washington55
Chicago11Brandéis45
Washington11Carnegie Mellon46
Brandéis12Chicago37
Case Reserve15Case Reserve210
UAA Women-UAAWLUAA Women-OverallWL
Rochester30New York103
New York31Washington62
Carnegie Mellon21Rochester65
Brandéis, 11Chicago42
Chicago01Brandéis4‘ 4
Washington01Carnegie Mellon57
Case Reserve04Case Reserve010
PAC Men-PACWLPAC Men-OverallWL
John Carroll20John Carroll102
Wash. & Jeff.20Wash. & Jeff.74
Grove City10Carnegie Mellon46
Carnegie Mellon11Grove City47
Thiel11Bethany210
Bethany02Thiel210
Hiram /02Hiram013
Men’s Hoops Div III Top Twenty Women’s Hoops Div III Top Twenty
1DePauw10-21St. John Fisher10-0
2Scranton12-12Concordia9-1
3Hartwick11-03Emmanuelle8-0
4Nebraska Wesleyan12-14Muskingum12-1
5SE Massachusetts7-15Rust8-2
6Bridgewater (Va)10-16Elizabethtown8-1
7Wittenberg11-37Southern Maine9-0
8Jersey City St.11-28Wisconsin-LaCrosse7-2
9Southern Maine9-19Cal. St.-Stanislaus11-3
10Rust11-310St. Norbert7-2
11Potsdam St.9-211Cortland St.7-1
12Illinois Wesleyan7-112Frostburg St.7-1
13Trenton St.9-113William Penn6-3
14North Park9-414Salem St.7-1
15Allegheny (Pa)12-3 *15Wisconsin-Oshkosh8-1
16Moravian9-216Centre5-3
17Rose-Hulman9-317Glassboro St11-3
18Illinois Benedictine11-318Franklin & Marshall7-2
19Claremont-Mudd10-319NC-Greensboro6-3
20Amherst6-120North Park8-2
(tie)Ohio Wesleyan9-4
photo by Andy Gillespie
Tartan gaurd Tommy Franklin brings the ball down court while keeping the opposing 
Gettysburg gaurd at bay. Carnegie Mellon won this game, 80-78.
IM News
Next IM Board Meeting will be held Thurs­
day, January 21, at 12 noon in the gym confer­
ence room.
SPORTS IN SEASON
Racquetball - Commissioner Carl Bell 
x5509
Majors finals will be played the week of 
January 18th.
Bowling - Commissioner Randy Brown 
x5501
Please check the playoff schedule at Strand 
Lanes. The finals will be held Saturday, Janu­
ary 23. Please be sure to pay all bowling fees 
to Strand Lanes.
Darts - Commissioner Rob Moses 683-8409 
Report all scores to the IM office* and stand­
ings are posted on the IM Bulletin Board.
Chess - Commissioner Matt Murbach x3939 
Please get playoff matches completed.
Table Tennis - Commissioner Bob Koca 
x8995
Please get major league finals played.
Backgammon - Commissioner A1 Marga- 
rella x5516 
Matches will start this week, please pick up 
schedules of matches in the IM office.
Basketball - Commissioners 
Majors - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Intermediates - Eric Jacobs x5510 
Minors - B.J. Rottschaefer x5503 
Women Only - Pat Jeffries x4299 
The season began last week, standings will 
be published in The Tartan starting next week.
Final Schedules will be available this week 
and can be picked up in the IM office. It is very 
important all games are played as scheduled. 
Make sure to note winning team on score 
sheet, and have officials sign the sheet as well.
Faculty Basketball
Courts C and D have been reserved for Fac­
ulty and Staff Intramurals Monday thru Friday 
from 11:30 am to 1:30 pm.
UP COMING SPORTS
All Sports listed are due Thursday, January
21 at 4:30 pm. '
Floor Hockey, Pinochle, Wrestling, Hand­
ball, and Water Basketball. For details stop in 
the IM office or contact E.J. Birdy at x2214.
THE IM TICKER...
The Minors Table Tennis League ended its 
season recently, as CSD beat VOID 4-1. Three 
Person Volleyball also came to a close, as 
Ming Dynasty, ECE CAD, and Pioneers all 
gamed championship trophies.
At the last IM Board Meeting, an ammend- 
ment to the Constitution was passed to enforce 
the rule that a player can play on only one team 
during that Intramural sport.
The officials club is looking for Basketball 
and Floor Hockey referees. All interested 
people should go to the IM office, Gym room 
101, or call x2214 to sign up.
Also:
With the beginning of IM basketball season, 
more and more people are utilizing their free 
time by practicing in the gym. Such practice is 
highly recomended as this looks to be the 
season of the basketball challenge matches. 
The first challange has already gone out to the 
team of Editor-In-Chief, Karl Barnhart from 
Sports Editor, Josh Ruben.
Ruben’s team, ’Schlag By Choice, is 1-1 
following a victory Sunday in which ’Schlag’s 
Stephano Coraluppi scored 22 points. 
Barnhart’s team, Pioneer-B, is 0-1.
COLLEGE HOOPS UPSETS
Six teams in AP’s top 20 fell on Satur­
day. Oklahoma, Duke, Syracuse, Geor­
getown, Indiana, and New Mexico all 
fell in conference play.
The biggest shocker came when Kan­
sas State handed third-ranked Okla­
homa its second loss in as many games. 
Oklahoma, with the nation’s most po­
tent offense was held to only 62 points.
With Georgetown, Syracuse, and un­
ranked Villanova all losing, no teams re­
main undefeated in Big East games after 
only two weeks of conference play.
PENS RETURN, SUSPENDED
The Penguins will be without the serv­
ices of defenseman Randy Cunney- 
worth for eight games. The NHL handed 
down the suspension following two 
incidents involving the Pens’ second 
leading scorer in December.
Pittsburgh received better news when 
wing Paul Coffey returned to the lineup 
after be sidelined with an injury. The 
Penguins are in fifth place in the Patrick 
Division with 43 points.
CARDS PACK UP THEIR NESTS
St. Louis football Cardinal owner Bill 
Bidwell announced Friday that he 
would move the team that has played in 
St. Louis since 1960 to Phoenix this fall.
The move is subject to approval of the 
NFL owners, when asked what he 
would do if the move was rejected, 
Bidwell said, “I don’t know, but I sure 
don’t want to sue anyone.”
“THE GREEK” GETS THE BOOT
Jimmy “The Greek” Snyder was fired 
by CBS Saturday for comments made 
on a Washington DC television station. 
Snyder is quoted as saying if blacks 
“take over coaching jobs like everybody 
wants them to, there’s nothing left for 
the white people.”
SOVIETS GOING TO SEOUL
The Soviet Union announced that it 
would particpate in this year’s Summer 
Olympic Games at Seoul, South Korea. 
The announcement paves the way for 
the first boycott-free games since Mu­
nich in 1972.
Thirty African nations avoided in 
Montreal because New Zealand at­
tended after playing South Africa in 
rugby. In 1980, the US led a Western 
boycott in response to the USSR’s inva­
sion of Afghanistan, and the Soviet 
Union responded with a 1984 boycott of 
the Los Angeles games.
NEW CONTRACTS FOR MANY
96 players filed for arbitration and an­
other 14 reached new contracts on the 
last day free-agents could sign with their 
old teams. Five Pirates: Andy Van 
Slyke, Bob Walk, Jeff Robinson, Sid 
Bream, and Rafael Belliard all filed for 
arbitration.
Bob Homer returned to the National 
League baseball after a year in Japan. 
The St. Louis Cardinals signed Homer 
to a two-year deal days after slugger 
Jack Clark jumped to the New York 
Yankees. Reggie Jackson may soon 
travel the other way, however. The 40 
year old slugger is quoted as saying, 
“The number is getting to the point 
where I can’t say I won’t do it. For a 
certain money, you’ll eat Alpo.”

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 23
* Stargell Selected to Go Into Cooperstown
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor 
Last week, Willie Stargell became the 200th 
player elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
More significantly, he was only the 17th 
player to be selected in the first year he was 
^ eligible. Although this was a year in which 
Stargell was far and away the best player on 
the ballot, being elected on the first try is still 
a high honor, one denied to such notables as 
Joe DiMaggio and Whitey Ford.
“I just wanted to play. I didn’t go out there to 
be considered great. I just wanted to be consis­
tent.” Stargell said simply. “This is a very 
proud moment for me.”
^ Stargell’s credentials are indeed something 
to be proud of: 475 career home runs, 1540 
runs batted in, and 2232 hits. Although 
Stargell only hit .300 twice in his major league
career, Willie finished with a career average 
of .282, not bad for a man who is second only 
to Reggie Jackson on the all-time strikeout 
list.
But his best-remembered achievements are 
those that don’t show up in the statistics. 
“Pops” was the heart behind the Pirate 
“Famil-ee” that fought back from a three 
games to one deficit to win the .1979 World 
Series. Stargell sewed up series Most Valu­
able Player honors with a .400 average versus 
Baltimore, capping his performance by going
4 for 5 in Game 7, which included a 2-run 
homer to clinch the series-winning victory, 4-
1. Images from that season include the 
Stargell stars, distributed for outstanding 
performances, adorning teammates’ caps, a 
deadly Stargell-Parker power pair, and a team 
that just seemed to have fun.
continued from page 21
The teamwork that had helped the Lady 
Tartans in Chicago had abandoned them in 
Cleveland, as the Blue Streaks surged to an
11 point lead at half time. The Lady Tartans 
were only shooting 33% from the floor, and 
despite 12 turnovers by John Carroll, the 
Lady Tartans were unable to capitalize, as 
they were out-bounded 28-17.
The second half saw much of the same. 
John Carroll was able to control the pace of 
the game and forced the Lady Tartans to 
make mistakes. At the 16:32 mark, and the 
Lady Tartans only down by five points, 
Coach Seidl tried to shake up her team by 
putting Reber in despite her injury. “I felt 
that I had to put Aimee back in because we 
needed her leadership.”
Reber’s presence was a key in a Tartan 6- 
0 run, but clutch shooting from three-point 
range by John Carroll’s Michelle Bozza put 
the game away. Bozza led all scorers with
19 points, and Michaela Kempton’s 17 re­
bounds was able to pace John Carroll. 
What killed the Lady Tartan comeback late 
in the game was their shooting from inside,
the team only managed to hit 23% of their 
field goals in the second half.
This past weekend Carnegie Mellon 
played the role of rude guest against the 
Lady Terriers of Hiram College. The Lady 
Tartans were in control throughout the 
contest, and rolled to a 14 point win. At the 
11:30 mark, Hiram was able to sink a basket 
to lead by two, but a clutch time out by Seidl 
was instrumental to a 5-0 run by the Lady 
Tartans. A three pointer by Lightner and a 
hoop by Virgin put CMU ahead to stay.
Throughout the first half, Seidl waited for 
her team to take control, as Carnegie Mel­
lon was clearly the better team on the court. 
However, the Lady Tartans only had 32-27 
lead at the halftime buzzer. At the start of 
the second half, the Lady Tartans were able 
to finally break the game open, leading by 
as many as eleven points.
With twelve minutes left, the Lady Terri­
ers went to a full court press to close a seven 
point deficit. After a Carnegie Mellon 
time-out, the Lady Tartans broke the press 
and played a balanced offensive attack.
WITH THE
We’re MULTIFLOW Computer and 
you’ll like the direction we’re taking.
TECHNICAL WRITERS
Based in Branford, CT, MULTIFLOW is recognized as one of the hottest start-up companies in the computer industry. Our outstanding combination of computer industry experience and world-class research capabilities have created the TRACE series of minisupercomputers that continue to set new standards in speed, cost and operational ease.The candidates we seek will have solid marketing and technical writing skills to develop user manuals, system documentation and collateral materials. An appropriate degree and 2-5 years of experience required.Sound computer industry experience, including knowledge of superminis and minisupers is necessary.At MULTIFLOW start-up doesn’t mean less. In fact—not only are our salaries competitive, our benefits package is one of the best in the area. If you’re interested please send your resume in complete confidence to:
Sue Hess Staffing Specialist MULTIFLOW Computer, Inc.175 North Main Street 
Branford, CT 06405
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H/V
The slugger remembered the attitude of the 
Pirate Lumber Company.
“We knew that winning was the only thing to 
do. As we travelled around the national league 
cities, the pride that we wore on those uniforms, 
the pride that we exemplified as we went on 
airplanes, and at the different hotels, and the way 
we carried ourselves - that meant an awful lot to 
us.”
Although he had had better years than his 32- 
homer, 82-RBI performance in 1979, it was 
Stargell’s team leadership for the Bucs that led to 
him sharing the MVP Award with Keith Hernan­
dez that year. If there was a year Willie deserved 
the MVP, it was 1971, when he amassed a 48 
HR, 125 RBI, .295 report in leading the Pirates 
to a World Series victory.
Stargell was the glue that held the Pirates 
together in the 1960’s and 70’s, a fixture at both 
first base and in the outfield. Pittsburgh was the 
only team he played for, donning the black and 
gold between 1962 and 1982, 21 seasons in all.
Although a then-young Stargell was confident
enough of his abilities on arrival in Pitts­
burgh in 1962, he was awed by the stature of 
those that had preceded him.
“I can readily remember coming though the 
Fort Pitt tunnels and going out to Forbes 
Field for my very first time and seeing that 
enormous stadium, and realizing that so 
many people before me had played on this 
field,” recalled the Buc veteran. “Here in 
Pittsburgh, the [Pie] Traynors, the [Paul and 
Lloyd] Wayners, the [Honus] Wagners...all 
these people who were already enshrined in 
the Hall of Fame.”
Although he has retired as a player, Stargell 
may not be through making his mark on 
baseball history. Currently a coach under 
(who else?) Chuck Tanner with the Atlanta 
Braves, Willie has been long mentioned as 
managerial timber. But right now, he is still 
in shock from his election to the Hall.
“When all of this settles in, I hope I can 
report back to everybody and tell them what 
election to the Hall of Fame really means.”
Entertaining!
You are a bright individual with loads of talent All you need 
is the right place to strut your stuff. . . to show you rare brand 
of enthusiasm. Put on your safari hat and come to Busch 
Gardens. Florida's most entertaining and exotic adventure 
park! Everyone will be just wild about you. We promise1
AUDITIONS & INTERVIEWS
Friday, January 29, 1988 
10 a.m. — 3 p.m. 
HYATT REGENCY 
Chatham Center
(must be 18 years or older)
Singers and Dancers
We re searching for male and female feature dancers, and for 
strong singers who also dance well. Singers should prepare two 
short selections (ballad and uptempo) Bring sheet music in your 
best key. Accompanist provided Dancers should bring dance 
attire and should be prepared to show movement and versatility.
Musicians
We seek musicians who play primary and secondary 
instruments—plus Accordian players. Steel Guitar. Fiddle. Tuba. 
Percussion, and Brass players who are experienced in dance 
movement, marching band style You should prepare two short
selections
Atmosphere Entertainers
Experienced performers irvcomedy and improvisation are who 
we re after Bring necessary props in order to perform your two- 
mmute comedy piece
Technical Personnel
We have a range of openings for experienced stage managers, 
skilled sound and lighting technicians, wardrobe personnel seam­
stresses and dressers Be sure to bring your current resume
FEATUARDEN

---------------------------------------------------

VI uaE ueA3e. D D
•PORTO
IM • CLUBS • VARSITY • PROFESSIONAL
t nINSD EGo MliÆSTOfieS:
:sslp. 
I&.
WBmëi
umtL
Coleman Reaches 1,000 Points as Tartans Go to 4-6
photo by Kelley Albeit
. Darryl Long (24) breaks his slump with a layup against Hiram as Darren Moffatt (52) looks 
on. Long finished the game with 16 points, his most since NYU over a month ago.
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Tartans’ season (4-6, 1-1 President's 
Athletic Conference, 2-2 University Athletic 
Association) hit rock bottom with 10:16 left in 
the second half on Saturday. Hiram’s Tim 
Tallbacka hit a free throw to put the winless 
Terriers up by 17 against Carnegie Mellon. 
However, freshman Lewis Jackson came off 
the bench to hit a school-record five three point 
field goals, to lead the Tartans back and beat 
Hiram 77-71 in double overtime. The win 
broke the team’s five game losing streak.
Jackson’s heroics stole the spotlight from 
Hart Coleman who needed only three points to 
score 1000 points and become the first Tartan 
to do so since 1981. Coleman leads the team in 
scoring, averaging 20 points per game; how­
ever. Jackson's effort was more than wel­
come.
Tartan Head Coach Larry Anderson com­
mented, “We needed a performance like that 
from someone other than Hart Coleman. 
Hart’s been carrying the scoring load for us, 
and we needed someone else to come in and 
play.”
The 1987-88 season has so far been a dupli­
cate of last year. Carnegie Mellon started the 
season winning three of its first four, only to 
drop its next five games on the road.
The horror story began December 4th in New 
York City. The Tartans travelled to NYU’s 
Coles Sports Center riding high. Junior for­
ward Darryl Long was leading the team with 
23.3 points per game and had nailed the win­
ning shot at the buzzer to beat Gettysburg 
earlier that week.
The game, however, featured the team’s and 
Long’s steep descent into a slump. He was 
held to only 17 points while Violet forward Jay 
Conway stepped into the spotlight. The 6’3" 
native of Porter Comers, NY hit three con­
secutive three-point shots, including one as 
time ran out to beat the Tartans, 68-65.
The slide continued at a New Year’s tourna­
ment at Allegheny College. Carnegie Mellon 
fell first to the 16th ranked Gators, and later to 
St. Vincent by scores of 77-59 and 80-68, re­
spectively. As the Tartans’ woes continued, 
the only bright spot was the play of Coleman. 
He led the Tartans in scoring in each game, in­
cluding a career-high 29 points against NYU.
A trip to Chicago the weekend before classes 
began did not help things. The Maroons’ out- 
rebounded the Tartans 37-28, which led them 
to a 59-57 victory. Coleman again le<j all 
scorers, but junior forward Darren Moffatt 
was the only Tartan who could muster more 
than seven points.
Carnegie Mellon had one more stop on its 
road trip, to Cleveland to visit last year’s PAC 
champion, John Carroll University. The Blue 
Streaks were 8-2 coming into the game and 
featured a scoring attack led by four players, 
all averaging more than twelve points per 
game. This, coupled with guard Michael 
Stewart’s departure two days earlier, only 
added to the Tartan’s woes. Stewart had been 
a valuable scoring threat, especially from 
three-point range.
In spite of these problems, the game started 
well for the Tartans, led by Coleman's 12 
points and helped by John Carroll’s 27% 
shooting from the floor, the Blue Streaks held 
a slim one point lead after the first half.
However, some familiar problems returned 
to haunt Carnegie Mellon. Turnovers, missed 
three-point shots, and poor free throw shoot­
ing plagued the Tartans. Carnegie Mellon
turned the ball over 16 times in the second half 
and made only eight of 14 shots from the 
charity stripe to fall behind early.
Tommy Franklin’s three-point shot brought 
them to within one at the 8:53 mark, but John 
Carroll then went on a shooting tear, out­
pointing the Tartans 14-5 over the next five 
minutes to put the game away. The Blue 
Streaks eventually won, 67-58.
Despite a 3-6 record (0-1 PAC, 2-2 UAA), 
the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel was 
visible. Carnegie Mellon was finally going 
home, and waiting for them was the 0-12 
Hiram Terriers. Coleman also had special in­
centive to do well, he was only three points 
away from being the first Tartan to score 1000 
points in seven years.
Hiram had swept the Tartans in their 1986-87 
meetings, but this was due to the prolific 
shooting of Division Ill’s leading scorer, Rod 
Swartz. In the last meeting of the two teams, 
Swartz uncorked for a PAC record 51 points. 
But this was the Terriers’ “P.S. (Post-Swartz) 
year,” as their Head Coach William Hollinger 
put it. Hollinger was left with a bench that was 
one player deep, an offense that had mustered 
70 or more points only against Adrian and 
Oberlin, and a defense that had only held 
Denison and Bethany below 70 points.
The game started out with a welcome sight. 
Long scored the first six Carnegie Mellon 
points, equaling his highest output from the 
last three games. There was no conscious 
effort to get him into the game. “Coach just 
told me to take it as it comes,” he remarked.
Coleman hit the 1000 mark by converting a 
free throw with 13:06 to go in the first half. 
Play stopped and Coleman was grateful for the 
moment. “I really wanted to hit at home and in 
front of my mother. I just wanted to let her 
know how much I’ve appreciated everything 
she’s done for me, and I appreciated the fans 
for being there to watch it happen.”
Long and Coleman however, were the only 
Tartans who could find the basket, their team­
mates could only account for four of Carnegie 
Mellon’s 29 first half points. With their 37% 
shooting, the Tartans found themselves at the 
wrong end of a 33-29 halftime score.
Things got worse. After Hiram’s Bob Dunn 
stole an errant pace and raced downcourt to put 
the Terriers up by 9, Coach Anderson pushed 
the panic button. Out went the starters, and in
went the second team: Jackson, Harvey Beck­
ham, Charles Vaught, Keith Morgan, and 
Charles Luckett.
Anderson explained, “I think they were out 
there playing lazy; they weren’t active. I just 
thought they should sit down down for 
awhile.”
Hiram’s starters built a seventeen point lead 
before Carnegie Mellon’s first team trickled 
back into the lineup. With 10:16 to go, it was 
52-37 and the Tartans were staring their sixth 
straight defeat in the face.
Then Coleman and Luckett combined for 
back-to-back scores, Carnegie Mellon’s first 
in the half. They next discovered a new 
weapon. Jackson unleashed two straight 
bombs from the three point line and suddenly, 
the Tartans were down by seven. “I felt good 
in warmups shooting three-pointers; I just 
thought I could shoot,” said the freshman.
It didn’t seem like enough. Hiram kept its 
starters in the entire second half, and although 
they were tired, they held a six point lead with 
1:57 remaining.
Fatigue proved their undoing. Dan Brook
missed the front end of a 1-and-l and nine 
seconds later Coleman brought Carnegie 
Mellon to within four.
The Tartans then went to a pressure defense 
against the Hiram inbound pass. Hiram’s 
Kenn Greaver couldn’t find an open man, and 
the Terriers turned the ball over. Nine seconds" 
later, with 54 seconds left, it was a two point 
game.
Hiram successfully inbounded the ball the 
next time, but couldn’t find a decent shot. 
Jackson stole a pass with 19 seconds left, and 
with four ticks on the clock, junior forward 
David Sikora iced the game with a 17 foot 
baseline jumper.
The Terriers were running out of gas, but 
pressed on to take a 67-65 lead with 17 seconds 
left in the first overtime period. The Tartan 
half-court offense went to work, but as time 
ran out, no shot was available. Jackson turned 
towards the lane and shot. It fell short, but so 
did Jackson, a Hiram foul sent him to the free- 
throw line with one second left. Two swishes 
from the sophomore sent the game into a 
second round of overtime.
This Week: Tomorrow night the Tartans 
take on the Thiel Tomcats (2-10,1 -1) at Skibo 
Gym at 8:00 pm. The Tomcats new Head 
Coach Jes Hutson brings to Pittsburgh his 
team of 11 freshmen and four returning play­
ers. Thiel lost its first nine games before back- 
to-back wins against Mount Vernon Bible 
College and Bethany. Leading the Tomcats is 
Ed Yoursh who returned to the team and 
scored 31 points in his first to game. Freshman 
Jason Balog is next averaging 10.2 points per 
game.
Saturday, the Tartans travel to St. Louis for 
their final UAA game of the season against 
Washington University. The Bears made it to 
the NCAA South Regional Finals before fall­
ing to North Carolina Wesleyan.
Washington.was picked to lead the UAA, but 
has fallen on rough times. Washington is 5-5, 
1-1 in the UAA following their loss to NYU.
The Bears are led by All-American Kevin 
Suiter, the senior guard leads the team with 
20.5 points per game. Second on the team is 
Academic All-American and Allderdice grad 
Paul Jackson who has scored 14.6 points per 
game and has grabbed 6.4 rebounds per game.
Hiram. The game featured Coleman’s 1000th point, and Jackson’s five three-pointers.

---------------------------------------------------

TELEVISION................Page D2
Contributing Editor Mark Benish with a 
brand new column
MOVIES........................Page D5
Eddie Murphy’s new concert film RAW
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT • COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
Star Trek: The Next Generation Is Here!
15-year-old meddling kid, Wesley 
Crusher (Wil Wheaton). One never expected 
Star Trek to ever resort to a lowly, whiz kid 
level, but now that families are watching, it is 
a must. The show’s only name actor, Levar 
Burton, is lost in a part of stupidity. A blind 
man who sees through a Fram Air Filter is a 
waste of this actor's talents. It they can cure his 
blindness, can't they cure Picard's baldness?
The show itself is first rate science fiction, 
but second rate Star Trek. The special effects 
are fantastic. Everything from the transporter 
effect to the actual ship are of superior, mov ie- 
like quality. When they visit the alien worlds 
the sets do not look like the backyard lots of the 
old show. Though the new look is for the better 
is most respects, there are two drawbacks. 
One, no more mini skirts on the women, they 
wear spandex now. Two, the bridge has been 
redesigned and the Captain, Riker, and the 
Betazoid sit in Lazy Boys for chairs. No more 
Captain sitting in his chair above his crew.
Written by many of the same people who 
wrote the original, the plots are pretty solid 
Star Trek stuff. Meeting up with funny-look- 
ing capitalist aliens like the Ferengi (they look
continued on page D3
By BRUCE KASREL
Assistant Diversions Editor
Now that the new Star Trek series, Star Trek: 
The Next Generation, has a few episodes 
under its belt, it is time to assess just how good 
the show really is. On the surface the show 
.. sports snazzy special effects and solid story
* ideas, but when one digs a little deeper, there 
is little of the magic of the original here.
Even before the series was little more than an 
idea, the show drew a great deal of attention. 
Just about everyone that was involved with the 
original series felt that the new show was 
doomed to failure. What would Star Trek be 
like without the most famous galactic woman­
izer ever, Captain Kirk? Or could it be Star
* Trek without the famous line “He’s dead, 
Jim!” coming from the mouth of the gruff but 
loveable Dr. McCoy?
Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry put all 
the cynicism aside and decided to go ahead 
with the project. Right from the start, Rodden­
berry went searching for a cast of highly tal­
ented actors. What? Star Trek with good act­
ing? Mistake Numero Uno, you say. It seems 
O that Mr. R. did not want any of the campiness 
of the old show. No sir, this show is going to 
have a spiffy clean look.
This cast of Star Trek: The Next Generation 
is quite impressive. As Captain Jean-Luc Pi­
card, Patrick Stewart brings an element of 
European class and distinction to the show. 
Though a little too wimpy to be a true Kirk- 
type leader, Picard is more a father figure to his
3 commanding officers than Kirk was.
As Picard’s right-hand man, Commander 
William “Number One” Riker, Jonathan
Frakes brings the macho image to the show 
that the bald headed Captain lacks. Though 
second in command, he is always the first to 
take charge of the situation. It seems as though 
he should be in charge, but his infatuation with 
the beautiful betazoid, Counselor Deanna 
Troi, keeps his drive for power in low gear, and 
his sexual drive at Warp speed.
Marina Sirtis as the Counselor is the one 
character the new series could do without. Her 
ability to read the minds of others, a result of 
her half-human, half-betazoid(alien) parent­
age, makes her valuable to the ship, but to the 
home viewer her constant looks of despair are / 
too serious.
Like the original, the character that is the 
logical straightman is the real star of the show. 
As Lt. Commander Data, an android, Brent 
Spiner is the only actor who seems to pay 
tribute to the original. Dishing out facts much 
like Spock, Spiner adds the much needed ele­
ment of comedy.
Another pleasant surprise is Denise Crosby 
as the feisty, yet feminine security chief Lt. 
Commander Tasha Yar. Her beauty and physi­
cal strength always attract the male aliens they 
meet. It used to be Kirk who was the woman­
izer, but in the eighties we have a seductress— 
a nice touch.
Unfortunately, the rest of the regular charac­
ters on the show are little more than window 
dressing. Wasted are the roles of Chief Medi­
cal Officer and Chief Engineer. There is no 
specific Chief Engineer and Dr. Beverly 
Crusher, played by Gates McFadden, seems to 
be included not as Chief Doc, but rather as 
mother to the shows chief gimmick character.
Left: The Cast(L-R) Wil Wheaton as 
Wesley Crusher, Levar Burton as Lt Geo- 
rdi La Forge, Marina Sirtis as Counselor 
Deanna Troi, Jonathan Frakes as Cmdr. 
William Riker, Patrick Stewart as Captain 
Jean-Luc Picard, Gates McFadden as Dr. 
Bervely Crusher. Michael Dorn as Lt. 
Worf, Denise Crosby as Lt. Tasha Yar, and 
Brent Spiner as Lt. Cmdr. Data.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—January 19,1988
Do You Remember All in the Family? '
By MARK BENISH
Tartan Contributing Editor 
The show you are about to see is All in the 
Family. It seeks to throw a humorous spotlight 
on our fragilities, prejudices, and concerns. 
By making them a source of laughter we hope 
to show -in a mature fashion-just how absurd 
they are.”
Announcement before the first show of All in 
the Family
Television sitcoms that provide the audience 
with cute, little phrases usually provide that 
same audience with hollow, dim-witted com-
70’s TV 
Classics
with 
Mark Benish
edy geared toward sub-primates. This is not to 
say that I am condeming shows like ALF, 
Who’s The Boss, and 227, which have fine, 
non-aesthetic qualities. The last thing I feel 
like doing when hanging out watching televi­
sion on a night of no work is watch a show with 
“a message.” But I don’t mind being enter­
tained and given a message (if it isn’t force-fed 
to me) at the same time. If an entertainment 
medium like television (which is mind-numb­
ing by its nature) can actually be thought-pro- 
voking, I'm all for it.
All In The Family was a show that did accom­
plish this. The show had more laughs in a half- 
hour than a whole season of inane, generic 
comedies. It also could give a profound state­
ment on human nature or a burning topical 
issue as well as an hour-long documentary on 
the same subject could. Audiences were 
laughing all the way through unforgettable 
comedy routines such as Edith’s long-winded
explanations, Archie’s tirades, and loud toilet 
flushings while being given new perspectives 
on prejudice, racism, homosexuality, and 
transsexuality.
The humor was not only limited to general 
topics, either. All current events were fair 
game for jokes, from Watergate to presiden­
tial elections to presidential performance. All 
in the Family expanded the creative sphere 
from which current writers, directors, produc­
ers, and actors can draw. It’s a shame only a 
handful of current TV people use these facili­
ties.
The show was based upon a British series, 
Till Death Do Us Part, the story of a British 
family of modest means with a bigoted father 
and a live-in son-in-law. Norman Lear bought 
the American rights to the series, and ABC ran 
a pilot called Those Were the Days. Carroll 
O’Connor and Jean Stapleton played the lead 
roles. ABC was not interested after the first 
pilot, but CBS executives were very inter­
ested. Sally Struthers and Rob Reiner were 
brought in to prepare their roles, and at 9:30 
pm ESTon Tuesday, January 12,1971, anew 
era of television was bom.
The regulars of All in the Family were quite 
familiar. Archie Bunker was played by Carroll 
O’Connor, who had deep insights into his 
character who was not filled with many deep 
insights. O’Connor once said of his character 
that “Archie’s dilemma is coping with a world 
that is changing in front of him... But he won’t 
get to the root of the problem because the root 
of the problem is himself.”
Edith Bunker, the lovable “dingbat” wife of 
Archie, was played by Jean Stapleton. Henry 
Fonda said of Edith on his salute to the series, 
“[Edith] probably thinks Plato is a character in 
Disney, but she has a knowledge that is hard to 
come by, a knowledge of the heart.” Some of 
the most insightful words came from Edith’s
lips, which were connected to a brain that just 
wasn’t always turned on.
Sally Struthers played Gloria, the liberal 
daughter of Archie and Edith, who often acted 
as a buffer between her father and her husband 
Michael Stivic, played by Rob Reiner. Stivic, 
called “Meathead” by his father-in-law, was 
an intellectual who had a 60’s mentality and, 
through that mentality, was a natural rival for 
Archie. Mike usually won the arguments as far 
as . the audience could tell, but the fact that 
Archie could squeeze inane comments in and 
think himself a winner showed the dogmatic 
nature of bigotry and bigoted ideology.
The show spawned three spinoffs. The first 
was Maude, which was based upon the charac­
ter of Maude Findlay, Edith’s outspokenly 
liberal cousin. The role was played by Bea 
Arthur, an imposing lady herself. The conflict 
between Archie and Maude provided some of 
the funnier scenes from the earlier episodes of
All in the Family. The second was The 
Jeffersons, which was based upon the black 
family that lived next door to the Bunker 
house at 704 Houser Street. The members of 
that family were: George, the outspoken, pro­
black father played by Sherman Hemsley; 
Louise, the basically easy-going, good- P 
hearted mother played by Isabel Sanford; and 
Lionel, George and Louise’s son who be­
friended Mike and Gloria, played by Mike 
Evans. One of the early conflicts of the show 
was Mike and Gloria maintaining their friend­
ship with Lionel while Archie and George got 
along as well as Jim Bakker and Jerry Falwell. 
The last was Gloria, an short-lived series that 
picked up Gloria’s life after she had divorced # 
Michael and moved to a rural area to be a 
veterinarians assistant (I was trying to restrict 
this article to good TV series, but this one 
snuck its way in).
continued on page D3
........ m
ALL UN IrlHi rAMlLY
Run Date: January 12,1971 to September 21,1983 
Network: CBS
Producers: Norman Lear, Alan “Bud” Yorkin (CMU Graduate - 1948)
Emmy Awards
•Outstanding New Series: 1970-71
•Outstanding Comedy Series: 1970-71,1971-72,1972-73,1977-78 
•Outstanding Continuing Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role In a Comedy Series: 
Jean Stapleton 1970-71,1971-72
•Outstanding Continuing Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role in a Comedy Series: 
Carroll O’Connor 1971-72, i 976-77
•Outstanding Continuing Performance by an Actress In a Supporting Role in a Comedy 
Series: Sally Struthers 1971-72
•Best Supporting Actor in a Comedy: Rob Reiner 1973-74,1977-78 
•Outstanding Directoral Achievement in a Comedy, Single Program, Continuing Series: 
John Rich/’Sammy’s Visit”( 1971-72); Paul Bogart,”Edith’s 50th Birthday”(1977-78) 
•Outstanding Writing Achievement in a Comedy, Single Program, Continuing Series: Burt 
Styler,"Edith’s Problem’X 1971-72)
February ismonth!
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis
Starting in February, look for special deals at 
Campus stores, so that you can help SAMS
Bust MS!
And coming later in February...
R S..Pa o I Six**
oiLv^i ill i uui uai j- - -
...the Rock-a-Like lip-sync contest!
To sign-up for the Rock-a-Like come to our table this 
Friday in Grey Matter between 12 noon and 5:00 pm. 
The Campus winner will go on to the Regional compe-
tition and could be featured in the Finals onI
MUSIC TELEVISION®

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page D3
Great Expectations — Where precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art...and at affordable prices.
WITH THIS COOfONsave $2.00 °» a ¦Precision Haircutcomplete with shampoo A blow style
now only $13.00 photb
I 
I 
I
January^ VI988^ ____________CJftfCCTtTMmSj
SATlsF^TloNGUAIMNTEEDi 
rAEe3 i3SUE2 i3eA3 e3yyy
V olumlmme
CHKCTfmms
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
SCHOLARSHIPS
AVAILABLE
Looking for a scholar­
ship? Air Force ROTC has 
two- through four-year scholarships 
that can cover tuition and other expenses, 
plus $100 per academic month, tax free 
Find out if you qualify
Cnpt Scott Carey 
412-268-8747
Leadership EjeeUence Starts Here
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Thursday, February 4 
Point Pari College 
First Floor Lobby, Lawrence Hall 
Singers: 2-3 PM; Dancers: 3-4 PM 
Instrumentalists, Specialty Ads: 3-4 PM
For additional audition information:Kings Island Ent*rtoinm«nt Office .................................513/241-5611Kings Productions.............................................. 800/544-5444
KINGS DOMINION ? CAROWINDS ? CANADAS WONDERLAND ? KINGS ISLAND ? GREAT AMERICA AUSTRALIA'S WONDERLAND ©Kings Productions 1988
SINGERS - DANCERS - INSTRUMENTALISTS 
TECHNICIANS - VARIETY PERFORMERS
It s JZZ j- qhe FamjZy
continued from page D2
The show later turned into Archie 
Bunker’s Place, after Mike and Gloria had 
taken their son Joey and moved to Califor­
nia, and Edith died. Before Edith died, 
Archie and Edith took on their niece 
Stephanie Mills, played by Danielle Brise- 
' bois. Edith died prior to the 1980-81 sea­
son, and Archie took a large interest in his 
pub, formerly Kelsey’s, his favorite water­
ing hole. This is when the show changed 
names. The show was still a very good 
show, but the episodes did not match the 
quality of the ones under its more famous 
name. There is one exception. The Pea­
body Award-winning episode, “Edith’s 
* Death,” is an extremely moving perform­
ance by O’Connor. The Peabody commit­
tee said of O’Connor’s performance that 
“[his] sensitive reaction to the loss of his 
beloved Edith is so profound, so moving, 
and so real that it becomes more than a per­
formance; it has all the agony of real grief.” 
Trying to pick a best episode is like trying 
to pick a favorite grandmother. Several 
\ come to mind, however. I don’t know the
titles to them, however. The violent death 
of Edith’s transvestite friend, Beverly, is 
quite moving. The series of episodes 
where Archie runs off with Denise, an 
attractive waitress, are definitely high- 
quality television art. Mike and Gloria’s 
wedding, with CMU graduate Michael 
Conrad playing Mike’s pro-Polish uncle, 
is hilarious. “Edith’s Death” is certainly 
the best of the Archie Bunker’s Place epi­
sodes. But the one I would watch a million 
times over is the episode in which Mike 
and Gloria leave to go to California. The 
scene of Mike and Archie embracing as 
Mike leaves will live as a classic tear- 
jerker. With that episode, an era in televi­
sion ended, an era that I feel was one of its 
finest.
All in the Family is on weeknights at 
11:30 on WPTT (Channel 22). So stifle the 
homewoik for a while and ambilate over to 
the television there, and toin cm and see 
Archie’s views about Richard E. Nixon 
and frontal nuditity. If you don’t, you are a 
MEATHEAD, dead from the neck up. 
Source: Total Television by Alex McNeil.
The Nexq Ge-eraqjo-
continued from page Dg
more like galactic game-show contestants 
than ruthless space traders), or dealing with an 
epidemic that makes everyone act drunk are 
just two of the stories that are reminiscent of 
the old show.
What is missing in Star Trek: The Next 
Generation are all those corny, non-scientific 
elements that made the Star Trek of old great. 
There is little interaction among the crew on 
any level other than official Starfleet business. 
When they send an away team down to a 
planet, Picard stays with the ship. Sure, this is 
the more logical thing to do, but it was always 
more interesting when Kirk would go where 
no man has gone before. Gone is the dispos­
able ensign (or Red Shirt as Trekkies refer to 
them) that would beam down and would never 
make it back up. No more references to the leg­
endary dilithium crystals or anti-matter.
Perhaps the biggest missing piece is the 
development of the characters themselves. 
Kirk, Spock, Bones, Scotty, and the rest of the 
old regulars were people you could care about. 
The new crew are so bland and regulation­
headed that one could care less.
Star Trek: The Next Generation may bear the 
name of the original, but it has little else in 
common with it. The Next Generation will 
most likely hang around for a few more sea­
sons, but it will fade. Thankfully we will still 
have the re-runs of the real Star Trek around.
Kings Productions, the world's #g producer of 
live entertainment, is holding auditions for the 
spectacular g988 season at KINGS ISLAND, 
Cincinnati, Ohio. \
Pay is good and jobs are plenty (we'll even 
provide one round trip airfare if you're hired to 
work at a park over 250 miles from your home). 
Make your audition a show we can't do without!
JAN. 25-26-27 
Skibo Ballroom 
10am-5pm
MOVIEPOSTER& ROCK SALE

---------------------------------------------------

The Thistle Yearbook
Q
Will be having it's first general staff meeting of
g988
Tonight, Tuesday, January g9th 
at 9:00 pm in Skibo Rm. 45 
(PIZZA will be served)
Whether you've worked with us before or think 
you'd like to take part in the yearbook experience, 
come to the meeting, eat some pizza and get In- 
volvedlll We're also looking for a few new editors, 
with the following $PAID$ positions available:
- Photography editor
- Greeks Section editor
- Activities Section editor
If you're interested in becoming a part of the 
Thistle, but can't make it to the meeting, either call 
us at x2g2g or drop by the Thistle office, Skibo 
46A.

---------------------------------------------------

January 19, 1988—The Tartan—Page D5
* DH 2210 THIS WEEK
Thursday January 21
Withnail and I
The time is the end of the swinging 1960’s. The place is London. Nearly gone is the 
decade of The Yellow Submarine, Hair, Oh! Calcutta!, of Mary Quant, free love, public 
sex, booze, pills to soar on and pills for the descent.
Withnail and I is a new English comedy written by Bruce Robinson (who also wrote “The
* Killing Fields”) and his first film as a director. If you’re someone who was interested in 
the 60’s, someone who is just curious, or just don’t have anywhere else to go, go to this 
movie.
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10 
Director: Bruce Robinson
Cast: Richard E. Grant, Paul McGann, Daragh O’Mallery, Noel Johnson.
Friday January 22
Predator
* Another Arnold the Barbarian classic! Arnie is in the armed forces and is fighting mad 
when some people die. Who? It doesn’t matter. Not only is he fighting mad, but the makers 
of the film actually give him an intelligent line. “It cahn’t see me.” Gosh, Arnie, how’d 
you figure that one out, maybe it’s the fact that it passed within two feet of you without 
seeing you.*
This has everthing a movie needs: blood, guts, gore, and more blood. Not only do Arnie 
and crew take on lots of enemies of our flag, but they take on an enemy to our world; I’ll 
let you guess who wins.
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12 
f Director: John McTieman
Cast:Amold Schwarzenegger, Carl Weathers, Jesse Ventura, Kevin Peter Hall.
Saturday January 23
The Lost Boys
This movie is just plain great. It is about this gang of rebellious kids who are vampires. 
Regardless of the fact that they’re vampires in the movie, it is. a love story. Boy meets 
girl, they fall in love, the girl’s boyfriend (who is leader of the vampires) is not happy, boy 
and girl make love anyway, boy finds out that girl is part vampire, boy is scared, boy’s little 
1 brother (with sadistic friends) comes to save boy, and all heck breaks loose.
The movie, as you can see, is very exciting. I saw the ads and thought, “Oh, it’s one of 
those type of movies,” but it is well-written, and well-worth the time and price to go see.
The movie is all summed up with grand-pa’s hilarious line at the end, watch for it. 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12 
Cast: Kiefer Sutherland, Jamie Gertz
Sunday, January 24
Heavy Metal - Alice in Wonderland(X) - Sid & Nancy
The movie times allow for you to mix-and-match the two movies that you want to see 
(two are shown at 6, two at 8, two at 10, and two at 12.)
Heavy Metal is not describing the film’s music. It is the name of an adult fantasy 
magazine. The film is animated, and its (and the magazine’s) artwork is incredible. One 
slight caveat; the artwork tends to leave the characters, well, basically unclothed. 
Especially the females. It is a fantasy cartoon with the standard damsel-in-distress, the 
hero, and the bad-guy.
The X rated Alice in Wonderland is basically the same as the Disney version, with a few 
minor changes. The fact that Alice is a bit more ‘mature’ than when she was in the book 
is obvious, as well as the fact that, again, less clothes are apparent on the characters.
Sid and Nancy is a dark love story about the life and death of late Brit Punk artist Sid 
Vicious of the Sex Pistols and his girlfriend (named, believe it or not, Nancy). It’s certainly 
not a happy, flowers ‘n light, take-the-kids kind of movie, but that may in fact be the theme 
of this particular Sunday’s movies.
Showtimes: 6, 8 (Heavy Metal), 8, 10, 12 (Alice), 6, 10, 12 (Sid & Nancy).
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Eddie Murphy is FEA
Bv MICHAEL ROSE
Diversions Editor
Eddie Murphy is one of America’s most 
recognizable performers, with his sharp and 
sometimes shocking style and one of the top 
grossing movies of all time (Beverly Hills 
Cop) working to make him ever more-popular. 
His recent live concert film R4 W is the culmi­
nation of his development as a performer in the 
past two years, and the result is perhaps not 
what we have been led to expect.
Murphy takes this movie at face and title 
value, providing what is certainly his most 
raucous, sharp, and profane film. He runs on 
the edge, his trademark style, as he tries to 
make us laugh without making us frown. 
Many claim that he is depending on shock 
value more than on real humor, that his spoken 
and gestured profanity is a device and a cheap 
one at that. You have to give those critics their 
due — the man has no scruples whatsoever.
Murphy lets loose his venom on home cook­
ing, on foreign tourists, and on some of his 
former targets such as Mr. T and Michael 
Jackson. But where he really gets underway is 
when he talks about men and women, specifi­
cally relationships and infidelity. With his 
elastic voice and expression, Murphy strikes 
nerve centers in his audience with clockwork 
precision. His infidelity routines are aimed at 
every man in the Felt Forum — he even makes 
the point that while most men there had come 
with a date, they would leave with Mike 
Wallace in a dress, interrogating them about 
their activities. The comedy is pointed and 
dead-on funny for most of this, crude and 
proud. It is only when Murphy begins to spout 
sexual stereotypes without any thought that he 
stops being funny and crosses over to being 
offensive. When he makes the claim that all 
men cheat on their lovers and that all women 
are bitchy and hostile to men by nature it is 
easy to stop laughing and begin frowning.
Robert Townsend is the director of RA W and 
his own comic talent and experience show in 
the smooth flow of the movie. Keeping a 
single person, even Eddie Murphy, visually 
interesting for two hours is a cinematic chal­
lenge that Townsend tackles with style. It’s 
too bad that the format of a concert film 
doesn't give the director a little more freedom 
of expression, since the opening sketch of the
Eddie Murphy is very much RAW.
film, written by Murphy and Townsend's 
partner in crime Keenen Ivory Wayans, was a 
beautiful example of what a good comedy 
director can do with a very simple concept. 
Townsend's future both behind and in front of 
the camera looks very bright.
Eddie Murphy has recently extended his pro­
duction agreement with Paramount, and up­
coming projects include the film adaptation of 
August Wilson’s Fences and a film starring 
Murphy and former Fox Network The Late 
Show host Arsenio Hall. Although his acting 
style has matured somewhat, the 26-year old 
megastar has just given us more of the same in 
his stand up performance. Eddie’s fans will 
thrill to RAW. but the indifferent moviegoer 
might just as well skip it.
Don’t miss Joe Bob Briggs’ 
annual Christmas Poem... 
on page D12 of Diversions.
BI0ENVIR0NMENTAL 
ENGINEERS, READY FOR 
A CHANGE OF PACE?
The Air Force can make you an attractive 
offer—outstanding compensation plus 
opportunities for professional development.
You can have a challenging practice and time 
to spend with your family while you serve your 
country. Find out what the Air Force offers 
bioenvironmentai engineers. Call
Capt Joseph T. Cooper 
412-687-7325 Collect

---------------------------------------------------

THE OAKLAND REVIEW WANTS YOU! .
What?
Why?
The Oakland Review, an annual p.tudent run magazine 
which publishes Carnegie Mellon students literary 
and artistic endeavors needs submissions i'or their 
April issue. Literary: poetry, short stories, one 
act plays. Artistic: black and white prints, drawings, 
photographs, designs that work as artwork, or high 
resolution photographs oi prints, drawings, or designs, 
sized app. 8.5" x 11".
CD
U)
O
c
When?Deadline : February 15» 1988$
'Wh©r0? Literary submissions can be typed and turned in with cover
letter, to Skibo Inio Desk in envelope marked: Oakland Review Editors.
VVhO? 3aorgia Lydia Sine,
Literary and Head Editor
at 521-6412
CR
Linda Peters, Art Editor 
at X8822, or 683-2729
BBii adTELLING GRADUATES WHERE TO GO...
=3
—0/
/
I < >r t*\c 111( areers,
( hallenges, growth,
.liid opportunities to 
work with clients and 
technologies that are 
ec lipsing the rest ot the 
world. You could be 
working with some ot the 
sharpest scientific minds 
in the areas of artificial 
intelligence, communi­
cations, life sciences, 
educational technology,
environmental and 
underwater acoustics, 
simulation and training 
systems, and a host of 
others.
So if you're an E.E.,
C.S., Applied Math or 
Physical Sciences Graduate 
(or soon to be one), we'd 
like a chance to tell you 
where to go. We are an 
Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/V/H.
Positions are also available in California, D.C., Kentucky, and Washington.
BBN Laboratories Incorporated
A Subsidiary of Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
Come meet us at CMU on February 1st.
From the Basements of Athens, GA. 
Authentic Rock & Roll!ATHENS,GA.
David Mazor Presents:
A Subterranean Productions & Spotlight, Inc. Production
Starring R.E.M. & THE B-52’s
Featuring: The Squalls • Dreams So Real - Pylon - Kilkenny Cats 
Time Toy - Bar-B-Q Killers - Love Tractor & Flat Duo Jets
Produced by Bill Cody Directed by Tony Gayton
SEVEN DAYS ONLY! 
JANUARY 21-27
FILMMAKERS AT THE FULTON
101 Sixth Street Downtown - 471-9700rn 11111111111 m

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYBy BerkeBreathedhn.NEN cS iyvygy
MM?VA m m.srm. Hex i msYOUR MOTHER (HTOFTVNN, CAMPY. IH0AE'
STEVE,REMEMBER WHEN I MS USWG THE.msr.HHe xiYme O.URsrH.mCOWNTOWN 7 M
mMm.T E(.xsreFs THU VmmN ,m,.mssm, wa/r THU.MOM. »HP EVERY CHRISTMASTHU ,mFN Cxr( rrffypwm -me martyr wm yourAWE-IY3PIRIN6, UNMATCMBLE GIFTS/ WELL, 7 WONTBE V /^T\MRTOFYOUR
v (_ *a’arv’
AH THE ENTIREgreat wall OF CHINA PERSONALLY CARVEP TO '/voo SCALE IN SOLIP BRASS
REMEMBER HOW YOU 10LP THE LAMES SEWING CLUB IT MRS OKAY TO 60 IN ?
I LET YOUR MOTHER 60 AHEAP. INTO YOUR ROOM SLIT MYANP TOU? HER WRISTS.THAT YOU'RE / SMOKINGA6AIN. J0U
HEY- C'MON.PONT PO THAT LOOK, I'M SORRY.TP LOVE TO RECEIVE YOUR 6IFT..
MERRY CHRISTMAS.MILO.
OH. NO.YOUPONT.
60LP.MELTEP POWN MY FILLINGS
MOM /1TUP YOU TO SMELLS LIKECALL BEFORE A TURKISH FLY1N6 OUT " BATH\ INHERE.
I ACCIDENTALLY WHAT'S FOUND SOMEUP 7 COCAINE BETWEEN YOU THE BOARDS UNDERDIVORCING YOUR DRESSER, BUT EP6AR 7 I THINK IT'S JUST\ ROACHDROPPINGS.
WELL.BMLEY, I BOUGHT THE EXCLUSIVE COLLECTION OF R£AUyf> MICHAEL JACKSON'S ^-x/ POST-SURGICAL fZ ?v NOSE ANP FACIAL \BONE FRAGMENTS ( rSA'ifl FOR YOUR CHRIST- V 4^ '¿K _ MAS PRESENT... -'T \
HEY'THEN T REALIZED NOT TO SUCH A 6RANP WORRY .'6ESTURE IMIGHT PUT YOU (-----\IN AN AWKWARD J ) POSITION.. \n . A
STOP SCATTERING BIBUS AROUNP BEIL THE PLACE, BOTTOMS ' MA WHO ARE YOUr'SAMMY DAVIS, JR. ?
SO I GOT YOU A CALENPAR INSTEAPOH.STEVIE. ' WE SHOULP TALK LIKE THIS MORE OFTEN,/
YEP-THIS IS RIGHT
YOU'RE THIRTY. STEVIE ' YOU SHOULP HAVE A WIFE / YOU'RE 6CHN6 TO ENP UP LIKE POOR UBERACE... PYING \ LONELY WITHOUT \EVER HAVING MET - p THE RIGHT WOMAN'
ANP PEOPLE REJOICED ANP SAID. 'FOR ALL TIME TO COME. LETVUS PAY BE A PAY FOR UNPERSTANPIN6, LOVE ..
EXCUSE ME, MA,BUT I PONT THINK UBERACE S MAIN FOCUS WAS EXACTLYwoMev/
STEVIE NOTHIN'. MAWHA- WHAT I JUST MEANT EXACTLY PO THAT HE MUST YOU MEAN r NEVER HAVE _ / MET YOU...
'ANP THUS, THE BABYA PmsUs CFs emUNTO THIS WORLD...
.ANP PEACE BETWEEN ALL MEN"
STEVIE.. YOU'RE SAYIN6 THAT UBERACE "WALKED ON THE OTHER St PE OF THE FENCEV
MY BROTHER JOEY HAS BECOME A HOMICIDAL •RAMBO -PHtLE 1 HE GOT ENOUGH WAR TOYS FOR CHRISTMAS TO FILL A US. f ARMS SHIPMENT TO Hi IRAN. I THINK WE > \ SHOULD SUE
EVEN HE "PUTTS FROM THE ROUGH "T
IN SO MANY WORDS.
ANP MANY OF MY OTHER ROMANTIC MUSICAL HEROES *60 UP THE POWN STAIRCASE"P
SOWSPEAK,MA.I UNDERSTAND 'WE TOP ­IS A GOOP PLACETO START .
MR. PALLAS.. 1NEEP A LAWYER
STEVIE / 6CENPA WAtlNCHINSKI JUST TOLP ME YOU'RE SUING SANTACUW9" - MU* r
MY SON, THE SANTA ATTACKER /I'M SO ‘ PROUP / MHO ELSE APE YOU GUNNING FOR * MOTHER TERESA r SHIRLEY TEMPLE ?' _
ANP THEN EVERYONE WILL 60 TO CHURCH ANP PARTICIPATE- IN A WESTERN RELIGION OF THEIRCHOKE/ BOY'
POGS WILL CURL UP BEFORE FIRES WOMEN WILL COLLECT IN THE KITCHEN ANP ROAST ANIMALS.. MEN WILL PRINK EGGNOG ANP PlSCUSS MANLY THIN65.
LOOK.MA ... I WORK FOR MY CLIENT. IF SHE SAYS SUE SANTA CLAUS T SUE SANTA CLAUS ' YOU KNOW HOWTHIS WORKS
CHRISTMAS IS SO REPUBLICAN
NOW CMON.(KISS' -KISS': )WHAT'S FOR PINNER 7
SOON. FAMILY MEMBERS WILL BEGIN ARRIVING IN BIG DOMESTICALLY PROPUCEP CARS.. _
BAMBt
CBwMiP
A MOM.SHE GAVE ME AWAY WHEN I WAS TWO VERY LIBERTARIAN
PISCUS5I0N CLOSED MA I'VE BEEN HIREP TO SUE SANTA CLAUS FOR MAKING WAR TOYS ANP THAT'S THAT.
ANP PONT AS USUAL TRY TO TAKE REVENGE FOR My DEFIANCE BY GOt/VG AFTER MY VULNERABLE 5POTS THE ONES YOUKNOW SO ME rPARNEP Mm*.WELL,
A TIME TO CELEBRATE THE NUCLEAR FAMILY ' VERY REPUBLICAN.
UNCLE FREP l/UILL RUB LITTLE BOBBY'S HEAP.PAP WILL STOKE THE WARM FIRE MOM WILL BRING OUT THE TURKEY- PAP'LL CARVE, OF COURSE ULTRA vA NORMAN V ->A ROCKlNELL.
WHATWHATMAYBE BINKLEY'S RIGHT. CHRISTMAS IS K1NP OF REPUBLICAN.Mir.' , Fr&ezeiFAMILY?
PLEASE ADVISE YOUR CUEHT THAT UNLESS SHE HALTS HER SPURKM SUTT AGAINST MY CLIENT HELL HAVE LITTLE RECOURSE BUT TV LEAVE PEW SPtPERS IN HER STOCKING NEXT YEAR v
HERE'S ANOTHER ONE FOR A LARBEanSftw
ANP THIS IS FOR YOU..A MINIATURE BRONZE BUST OF MYSELF THAT I PAINSTAKINGLY CRAFTEP AS A GESTURE OF OUR ETERNAL FRtENP- _ SHIP
WHK.ettrrio
tgU'NO
HERE. ITS A MCDONALD'S GIFT CERTIFICATE FOR A 'B& MAC' MERRYCHRISTMAS.
NO DOUBT HE U BE SENPtNG OUT HtS I0PIYEA'SBW F WG7wa0GWB/ »f»B7aLEGAL PLEASE6UNS-. COUNSELOR
TODAY WE DRAG SANTA CLAUS 10 COURT. MR PALLAS.ITS FRIGHTENING '
IT COULP GETUGO. MONICA
YESSlR SIXTEEN LONG MONTHS IT TOOK
NO.NO.. WOULPNT THINK OF FT.
OH.THANKYOU'
HERE.IT'S A SWEATER I KNITTED OUT THANKS OF TEN YEARS' HERE’S KXM WORTH OF MY )£LU)WS1M BELLY- SOUVENIRBUTTON , ASHTRAY.UNT MXj \ .
NOW. BOBBY YOUR SISTER SAYS YOU RECEIVED 37 TOYS Of DEATH ANP HUMAN DESTRUCTION FOR CHRISTMAS ^ CORRECT?
yv * w i i f nt^r' H9*p,YOU M9T WANNA &VtABE ONE OF VON* ABSURDLY SPECTACULAR. CHRISTMAS &0TS.50 YOU CAN ACTsmvovrjr 
r LOM'/
NEXTWITNESSTHNK THAT AN APPROPRIATEHAY TO CELEBRATE JESUS BIRTHDAY T
TURNING INTO A UTTLE WAR-GLORIFYING SOCIOPATH ARENT WE BOBBY fOH. FORTNCFY f

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYFunded by Stud«
Gw7ya xr woe ms tew.THAT IN MARCH. ffR5. YOU Y0URSUF SPeClflCALLYRGQuesrep a powNvfuy 
(’_ ^C a aa ^n’ 
mmm* /, ^ tsur ^ -
THANK >W. MOHCA. SANTA CLAUS' VIOLENT CHRISTMAS btfTi TO YOUR BROTHER WE WEED A SAP LEGACY. YOUR WITNESS, COUNSELOR.
GO ON ' FOLLOW ME '1 PARE YOU ' SEE IF YOU FIND ANYTHINb. YOU SNEAKINO. 5KULKINO YELLOW MEDIA POOS '(F p PUsr r.T rr/
NO WA) A FURTHER 'BARBI QUESTIONS NAIL FILE
THIS IS GARY HART TRY FOUOWHX? MF AROUND THIS TIME SMART ÖUYS'
ILL BE AT RANCHO’S PALACE OF PLEASURE. 1 AROUND EIGHT.
THE PLAINTIFF SMUGLY RESTS HER CASE.
3? MILLION TOY GUNS WERE ON A 31% RECE1VEP MARGIN. THIS CHRISTMAS, PARN GOOP MR. CLAUS... YEAR
you MEAN TO HAP TO LOSE SAY THAT YOU'RE A FEW POUNDS ST HICK, ALIAS TO FIT INTO ‘SANTA CLAUS'? MY HEW I Jftv 'SAAB' ~
egiI ^eolgmt
Cn m. me
As^cABN wo
YgkThIAihF
Set(NsEsEdo
THIS IS GARY. WOULD YOU S(WW£1 THAT JESSICA / HAHN MIGHT UKE* 
BIMINI ? obkuyITJAIP that! r ^ZFoimu
&Am ' H , \60 0H! d%*nryoiiuI m! &
HO'HO' HO'HO/ HO' MO' HO' HO'
SAY. IF MY WIFE CALLS.TELL HER rM.UH.JN 77BET FOR. THE WEEKEND. FOROETI SHIP THAT.' KEEP OUT OF MY FAM/LYUFE, YOU MEPM JACMS <
HI. THIS IS GARY HART
HELLO'PICAYUNEPERSONALS.
CtoON IN F9T7 P HO'HO'
... IT'5 ABOUT OOP SENPINC, MY BOY TO PUROATORY IF HE SUCCEEPS IAI ATTACKIHO SANTA cAkx CLAUS V
WHY. EXACTLY, IS IT CALLED "OMBUDSMANLADI65 AND 6EHUEMEN OF THE JURY THIS LAWSUIT IS ABOUT CHRISTMAS ITS ABOUT WAR TOYS IT'S ABOUT bREEP ANP FALLEN IDEALS...
PONT LISTEN IV HIM. THE NUMSKULL ’S BEEN LIVING ON POP TARTS AND ISN’T THINKING CLEARLY l. THIS WHOLE THING IS DISGRACEFUL /MORE HIM.
MA. HAVE YOU HEARD OF THE MOVIE SEE YOU " THROW MOMMA BACK AT FROM THE TRAIN'r THE HOUSE. \ ^DtftR. jjB
I COULP WE INTERRUPT 1 WITH (¡QUESTION, SIR? wjry --------------
NO, MRS. CAUlSH. m PONT WANT TO 0E 
F/REBOMBEP"ms. c/Nishr^r- rt~ 
\ xTcL_
AH. TRANSFERRED AGAIN, EH?NO, MRS. CAVISH,m ARTKie rc p/er cneese ms criMFANT 70 HAV6 A COMMUNIST SCANT/ MA'AHt?
SOM&OPYàrWn meAMP."
TV THE OMBUDSMAN PESK / UH—excuse me -.
YEP' AREAL SO YOU ' CHUCK NORRIS "WILL TOY GRENADEBRING MY LAUNCHER/LITTLE BROTHER vrv/ BOBBY APRESENT NEXT \ CHRISTMAS, -¿3WON’T YOU ? ’ )
SORRY. THEY'RE AU. SAVED J9 FILL 1 WAS ORDERS FROM THINKINO NORTHERN IRELAND OF JUST A ANP THE MUDER5T.NICE /PEACEFUL 'RUBBER 3ALL. V U
WELL, TP UKE THOSE OF YOU WHO VIEW ME AS A ROLE MODEL TV KNOW WAT. IN REALITY. WHEN FACEP WITH A DANGEROUS SUBSTANCE, TWS DUDEJUST SAYS
excuse em- NF,xms Pi,GENTLEMENYESTERDAY'S PANEL SHOWED ME REQUESTING AN ALCOHOLIC 'BEVERAGE..
CONGRATULATIONS ON SUCCESSFULLY FKjHTING MX ^jez LAWSUIT. iW MR CLAUS
1 WAS KWDA THINKING WE D JUST LET BYGONES BE BYGONES
NITRATE-LAPENSMOKEDMEAT?
HO/
WANT SOME DRJGS ?
FILTERS 7. >w
YOUR FLAGRANT ANTI ­FAMILY EDITORIAL POSITION LEAVES ME ONLY ONE RECOURSE. .
TELL CIRCULATION MRS. CAVISH IS LOWERING THE BOOM
CANCELMY.WLtunSàiSrcl
TM GONNA DO IT-SHUT UR SO ' DIP YA OR I’LL WIN THE BIG STUFF COURT LEECHES UPCASE 7 YOUR NOSEFOR ^ ^ ^ONCE ? /gr± 0m
YOUSHOULPNTDO IT7PONTDO IT '
OM&UKfVWumm
. . THE STFOHGHOLP OF HUMAN INSIGHT THE BULWARK OF FREE THOUGHT ' THE SWORP OF TRUTH IN MAN'S STERNAL PURSUIT OF FREE EXPRESSION ANP 
tyAbYkiYY- \
THE BEACON OF UGHT IN THE PARKNE5S OF IbNORANCi.»mFiC(xNm 3F6L Fr r(mMIOHTY BASVON OF JOURNAL ISTC INTEGRITY...
MY WIFE, A WOMAN OF RARE BEAUTY ANP DEUCATE CONSTITUTION, STUMBLED UPON AN OFFENSI VE WORD ON YOUR COMICS PAGETH£ 'PERSONALS' I SECTION OR THE ' WHOLE PAPER IN G6NEKAL 7
Cfy J
InkspotsBy Kurt Shaw

---------------------------------------------------

dent Dormitory Council
yuppies are veap. wealth is outSO tSGRSEP ­cà ànWbt ­càti­iWthSeeKINb. ANP
is somebopy YANKIN' me here OR WHAT r
3Ur m FV.Fx, ^RmrEMOTIONAL WHEN I THINK OF THE MOP'S MOST POWERFULiFrxHi pern HUrY,m.VH.em, xi s,F6m 3T F pm 6mirU.TSOCIETY THAT STILL ISN'T -CAPABLE OF BUILPING ^ \ ONE.1 J^QO^ivr
THE WHOLE KIT N' CA0OOPLE 7 THEN WHAT'S*w*r
TP UKE10 APOLOGIZE FOR YESTBRPAYS VIOLENT OUTBURST. OPUS. IT WAS VERY UNLIKE Me...
OUT THEY MAKE A MEAN FURRY HAT .' ANPVOPKA' OLIVER ?..
HEARP WHAT?RUSSIANCOMMIES.HEARP,PORTNOY^
YA KNOW. THERE ARE THOSE WHO FEEL IT'S v ALWAYS A LITTLE \ FASHIONABLE TV PE \ FASHIONABLY)Aca­t/Src­LBf l
.TO PUSH OUT ANOTHER RCA SATELLITE CAPABLE OF BROAPC/tSTtNO *ISHTAR~ ZH- HOURS iA PAY TO PUERTO IRCO. -•
SEX...MONEY...ARTlFlCIAtf HOOP STIMULANTS..RAMPANT ALLMATERIALISM- SUPPENLY STATUS- UNFASHmm.tffyScblll /
irTo -me WttnwtSPACE AGCNCY ANNOUNCE? ITS GOAL FOR 1990:
..to lanp a immvepRESeARCH BASE ON­TO THE POLAR ICECAP OF MARS/
SO LET'S GET BLASTEP ANP BUM AW/V? AT "SHARPER IMAGE."
COINCIPENTALLY, NASA ANNOUNCEP ITS GOALS TOPAY TOO-.
WE'VEALWAYSBEENFASHIONABLE.
THIS IS A P/SASTER.
ITS FROM WE RAPICAL WING OF •THE WOMENS RESOURCE CENTER: THEY'RE MtFFEP ABOUT LAST SUNPAY'S CHEEKY LINGERIE INSERT ANP THEY'RE IN THE FOYER THREATENING TO SCT FIRE TV THE PHtUKENPRON. jCOMMUNIQUe.OverloadBy Bob JenkinsisMAC*rf-x
Just i/nff Ornf
$£r\e$TErzs AAipr'tL
BE Ac fBfuinSu­B
1cbBcf(i4" \
oü, in Vgouo or 
Vou, trc h GWi 
coolp vou please
Fix -ToAsreR-?THE MILITANT WING OF *THE IWtCAL FEMINIST ANP LESBIAH GUERRILLA ALLIANCE * Gw G7 \ gf\ A7W aIBty0B ^llBW ASf'a f'0 0BEB7a EIBBlt gG7vB0GB Efgf0 NHSERT. NOW WATCH §
HUIIA PROFESSIONAL^'^ r
mfaiBv peFUses iAX LH VOLATIIE «SITUATION- I
W WHOLE UFE 5 seen ONE LONG KRCISE IN THE\toicmce r/oFCONFLICT: FT HASI i NOT
HAVEN'TTUBmi MB FAINTESTmru/ere <ARWlNCr
imwUIv Y ^
IF WAT'S RIPICOLOUS, THEN IMRIPICULOUS.ER, NO... r COULP
P6516K/ A rTa tno 
T140C'6H.
X W?ND£K How 
CgM:WB pPP Ti^iS 
EPUCAKOKÏ REAuY 
iÇ?... o
YOVteNOTmœmIT HAS. THAT'S. RIPICULOUS.
GOOP MORNING / THE RUSSIANS STILL BEATING THE PANTS OFF US IN SPACE 7
By Danny Fahs
amp action!/ 1 CÛAtTAHHurei \ 
\ ¿W HAMOS ACe SoOrtD u)t 
J/^r\ SM? RoPesf SV. v \ ©ReAiciNicr THe Soaç \ 1 CAisi Ffcee J
\ % vV-t MVseup/
lUSTAhiT KepuAy.' PRePARC THeUn­ mu)AsH/Afa 'we
'Norf re^lL 
^Le., aç,
Vr. Ple»wÎA«? Did •sKa, 
)ul( an eeeJasH CarlAV 
on you, perhyx ?
'u)A\T, PToPue of= 
THe BATHOS

---------------------------------------------------

|986 Tknewyear
negapo^s is
pe'f-cArrung "Vrb ^*5^
cn^e state, 4 nd Fnsddy 
arvif^lqx «re jusf sefcenng
^-r..................... ........... .
yE ^ y—•> ric W
fxr
v\,i*L* ì x^'f" •
,fSr
A -ni
WHOft,pagt,fol
\\k l^vthtbif
\JfS
40 "L'etatj c'est 10 Permissive
-----" 11 Kingly1 Jack of nursery 41 Sample TV show 12 From Carson City
rhyme 43 Burl ----- 13 Morning, in6 Food with lox 44 VP Aaron, and Marseilles
11 River adjacent to family 14 Disposes ofRutgers College 46 Emperor or pianist 19 Draft animals13 Branch of the 47 Tennis call • 22 Puts up a picturemilitary 48 Attacks again
15 Mouthlike opening 50 Was victorious 24 Soviet government16 City in Texas 51 Chicago newspaper 26 City in Ohio17 Sweet potato 53 Following closely18 Whirled around on behind
one foot 55 Certain Asians20 Wire measure 56 Bitter conflicts21 Actor John ----- 57 Hinder23 Cabs 58 Passover dinner24 German port
25 Paint substance DOWN27 ----- mother28 Small brown birds 1 Former Italian29 Capital of Iran president 31 Part of the body 2 Man or monkey3 Hilly region of Morocco32 No one specified (abbr.)
33 Movie sci-fi thriller34 ----- section, inmath
36 Defeat soundly
39 South Pacific kingdom
28 Young animal30 Mythical bird31 ----- Guevara33 Desires, as for knowledge34 ----- wagon35 Former36 Angry37 Shad-like fish
38 Profession of TV’s "Quincy"
39 Slopes40 Backless slippers 42 Ice device4 "Take ----- from me" 44 Mistake5 Unspoken, but 45 Data, for shortunderstood 48 Trumpet attachment6 "----- in Arms" 49 "Your majesty"7 Like the Gobi 52 Unit of computer8 Actor Gerard information9 Foes 54 Jar part
I PiHlOlMlOlRllickmiHBB nciRR nnnnnnnnmrc BERE Ennrcnnnnnn
SjEliiBUB DBS DHUB
BQUun 82, ciaaaa utjuci ??? ?aaaoia ???a aaaaaa?HQQQQQQaS QQflES HCjaaHaaaaa aaau HQHDCjQCjaaaa ciciaa
These are 
the answers 
to last
week's
puzzle.
*
by William Barnes <5 Mattteui Diamond
HZLLO, AMD US£LCOM£ BflC K 
TO TH£ SHOW ! W£ GOT A 
COT OF MAIL OU£e TH£- 
BeefwCj hNb sc. uife'vjfi- 
DECIDER TO 
tfDICRTfi mS)
SHOW TO 
VtEUJfcR MWL!
606, ISN'T THgeg. 
SOMETHIN^ 3QM- 
H«W£.»J'T TOU> OO«.
FftBUU3US .
WHfvT DftVlCs P LLO'blNS TO 
FOLKS, IS THAT THISHfts 8££w &seevel> fc« am4lgF4su gb’,Ts 
ubbu ubJgL kIRRC 'Si- 
zTTTTTXfW OOte«/

---------------------------------------------------

gowE o.M tE3 T.KoUKENB -oT. 3aE yyy
Carnegie Involvement Association
We are looking for people interested in:
Pushing Buggies 
Driving Buggies
Maintaining and Building Buggies 
Building a Spring Carnival Booth 
Intramural Sports 
... and PARTYING!!!
hoA woAE T.soAwe3To.M PowE 3o onA .E53 wEE3T.tY 
ul,Irbuy -e.neAS VW3a e3 WY!'4F T. iOTco foow V•
Funded by the student activities fee
SKI BASH 1988
A fun evening at Seven-Springs for new skiers and old alike!!!
Motor coaches depart from Skibo on Saturday , Feb. g3 at 3:00
Well leave Seven-Springs at about gg :30 that night._______________
Cost: $24.oo-iift ticket and ^ (Applications due by Feb. 6!
$9.25-rental (if needed) -----------------------------------------------------------
$2.00-lessons (strongly recommended 
for first timers)
Send the coupon and check to: University Ski Club/ Box 798 Donner 
Make checks payable to University Ski Club. Questions? Call ext. 4322
Name.Check here :
Campus Address___________________________________ -lm bys 24.00
Phone------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- _rental 9.25
Emergency Phon*--------------------------------------------------------------- 2 0Q
I understand that skiing can be dangerous and hold
UniYersitu Ski Club . it's emDlouees and associates harmless in the event that I am 
injured. I also agree to allow Universitu Ski Club to seek medical attention on mu 
behalf and I understand that my registration fee may be forfeited if I fail to appear 
for departure. Signature_________________________________________________________
Riccardo’s Pizza
^3?
V»n. t :¦* ; f
Coupon Expires W ^
Free Delivery 
Riccardo's Pizza 
4626 Forbes Ave. 
687-1956 Next ¿i 
to CMU ^
LargePizza
One Free Topping 
(except extra cheese) 
$5.00 including tax
Dinner Special Coupon (valid after 3pm) 
Not valid with any other offer
SPRING CARNIVAL 
ENTERTAINMENT
ENTERTAINERS 
NEEDED!
PICK UP YOUR 
APPLICATION 
AT THE SKIBO INFO DESK.
ONLY 3 MORE 
SLEEPING PAC, 
WEEKENPS
TU
&FL Awrrm? wwem** tp 122 matc^s.
WE NEEP To UK HELP TZ> MAKE. TWK» ASUCCESS i><?, HOST A &AC|4ER 
&EF0RE SUPPLIES RUN OUT.
'fbu*- NAM»-_ __r _
%
VofQA *.
tx98$ & fUo,30M
  r’p Love TZ> Ht&T', TAKi. £1.
«_______. Tt> losfc rt> ATovf^ S­
, , il’o T£? lio^T. APRIL ItHI
  Xb V4WE. ’uonfy ’spU3 UPbUjTCxAxq
xte IOV& APFJL 1G<U0
m___.rb T£> qive: AlCOK AmiL.
n£A^ H&TVK+l TO klAKNBX HALL.KMffil ~

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—January 19,1988
A Slightly Belated Joe Bob Merry Christmas *
Here it is, time again for the annual Joe 
Bob Briggs Christmas Poem. Now some of 
you may notice I’m doing it a little late this 
year, and that’s for one reason and one 
reason only. I couldn't think of anything else 
to write about this week.
Of course, the purpose of the annual Joe 
Bob Briggs Christmas Poem is well known 
by now. It’s to add commercialism to the 
Christmas season. So if you want a copy of 
the poem, you can have it free by writing to 
Joe Bob Briggs, P.O. Box 33, Dallas, Texas 
75221, but I get to sell your name and 
address to the Shiite Muslim Direct-Mail 
Fund-Raising Committee for their annual 
Give Money, Yankee Dog drive. It’s 
something I do ever year to try to bring 
about more peace on earth.
All right. A little silence. Get a couple 
Kleenexes. Make it three; this one’s a little 
mushier than last year’s. Listen up. I call it... 
A POEM FOR THE J-MAN 
I been thinkin bout the baby Jesus 
And folks in China that got diseases 
And guys named Leon that smell like 
cheeses...
Kinda makes you wonder, don’t it? 
Somewhere there’s a little drummer boy,
Stealin his brother’s Christmas toys,
Makin a lot of obnoxious noise...
Kinda makes you wonder, don’t it?
Crack, pornography, child abuse,
Divorce, prostitution, dogs runnin loose,
Fat people, bankers, guys named Bruce... 
Kinda makes you wonder, don’t it?
Black people, brown people, Poles and 
Swedes,
People that don’t have cable, just beads, 
Greasy Germans squattin in a patch of
weeds...
Kinda makes you wonder what they’re 
doing, don’t it?
Baptists, Methodists, Catholics, Jews, 
Oprahs, Geraldos, Phil Donahues,
Dorkheads takin the “Love Boat” cruise... 
Kinda makes you wonder, don’t it?
Can’t we have some peace on earth?
And some cheaper beer, and Doritos, and 
mirth?
And stop killin, and lying, and denyin our 
brother’s worth?
Nope. Probly caint.
Speaking of people that get their face 
burned off for no reason, “Hello Mary Lou: 
Prom Night II” came out a couple weeks ago
MUSICIANS
PERFORMERSTECHNICIANS
Interviews for technical positions and Berenstain Bears will begin when 
registration opens. Auditions for singers, musicians and emcees will begin 
as soon as these interviews are completed
ANN ARBOR. MICHIGAN 
Monday. Jan 11
University of Michigan 
Michigan Union Anderson Room 
Registration 2 30 5 30 pm
MT PLEASANT. MICHIGAN 
Tuesday. Jan. 12
Central Michigan University 
The Bovee Universitv Center 
Registration 3 30 6 30 pm
EAST LANSING. MICHIGAN 
Wednesday. Jan 13
Michigan State University 
M S U Union Ballroom 
Registration 2 30 5 30 pr-
KALAMAZOO MICHIGAN 
Thursday. Jan 14 
Western Michigan Un*ve»sitv 
Dalton Center Scnoo of .oLW 
(Park at Miller Auditor •*»» 
Registration 2 30 5 30 p»»
COLUMBUS. OHIO 
Monday Jan 16
Ohio State Univereutl
School of gEAU Huqrn*s e13 
Registration 2 30 5 30 pn
DAYTON OHIO 
Tuesday Jan 19 
Ramada Inr North 
4079 Little Vorfc Hi-.*; 
Registration 2 30 S.* p”
MUNCIE. INDIANA 
Wednesday. Jan. 20
Ball State University 
Burris School
Registration 2 30 5 30 pm
BLOOMINGTON. INDIANA 
Thursday. Jan 21
Indiana University
Indiana Memorial Union Solarium
Registration 2 30 4 30 pm
KENT OHIO 
Monday. Jan 2S
Kent State University 
Student Center Third Floor 
Registration 2 30 5 30 pm
PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA 
Tuesday. Jan 26
University Inn
Fortw*s at McKee Place
Registration 3 30 6 30 pm
BOWLING GREEN OHIO 
Thursday. Jan 26
Bowling Green State University 
University Union 0n»o Suite 
Registration 11 30 am 3pm
SANDUSKY OHIO 
Fnday Jan 29
Cedar Pont
PdrK AttraitH*ns Offke 
Reheafsa1 St ud*os 
Registration 10 jm 4 pm
hoA sTA33DEA T.soAwe3To. Po.3eP3 R 3S 5006
Live Show Auditions Sandusky. Ohio 44070CHAR POVIT 419-6260830 Ext 2388
and then got jerked off the screens by 
Communist theater owners claimin they had 
to make room for the indoor bullstuff 
Christmas movies, even though this is 
probly the finest pure-dee old-fashioned 
dead-teen-ager flick of the last two years.
It’s your basic Linda Blairsville, where 
Mary Lou is the high school girl who goes 
to the prom, ditches her date, starts aard- 
varkin backstage with the campus cretin, 
and makes her boyfriend so mad he lobs a 
stinkbomb onstage while she’s gettin 
crowned queen of the prom. Whoops! Three 
Mile Island in a prom dress! Richard Pryor 
Fu!
Now it’s 30 years later, and the boyfriend 
is the high school principal, and the campus 
cretin is a Catholic priest, and a little blonde 
number named Vicki is trying to be prom 
queen, and down in the high school base­
ment there’s an old trunk with Mary Lou’s 
prom dress in it, and her crown, and a ghost 
that likes to rip the veins out of anybody that 
touches that crown. In other words, Mary 
Lou is hangin around the locker room, 
searching for a body to aardvark in. How 
about this girl Vicki, the one that wants to be 
prom queen but her mother won’t let her buy
a new dress? How about little miss Thunder 
Thighs?
In other words, it’s time to party again.
Seven breasts. Seven dead bodies. Post- 
toastie prom queen. Zombie cafeteria.
Haunted hobby horse. Lasered eyes. Neon 
wall decoration through the stomach. Stink ^ 
bomb Fu. Water fountain Fu. Volleyball Fu. 
Bunsen-bumer-to-the-crotch Fu. Drive-in 
Academy Award nominations for Brock 
Simpson, as the dead computer nerd, for 
sayin, “Life’s a joke, then you croak”;
Richard Monette, as the dead priest, for 
trying to fight a demon with a crucifix; Beth 
Gondek, as the dead best friend, for her two 
enormous talents; Beverly Hendry, as the 
dead school bimbo, for getting her brain 
squished in a locker; Bruce Pittman, the 
director, for being Canadian but making a 
decent horror flick anyhow; and Wendy 
Lyon, as Vicki the Linda Blair girl, for 
screaming, “Leave me alone!” at Mary 
Lou’s ghost and destroying a perfectly good 
radio, young woman, and for saying, “That’s 
my name, don’t wear it out!” and “Places to 
go, people to kill!” ^
Four stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Macho Art at Forbes
By EDIE LOCKE
Special To Diversions 
This wee*k the Forbes Gallery will feature the 
work of senior artists Jay Brooks and Rick 
Cunningham. Hailing from the Macho school 
of Big, Bold and Brassy Art, these two men 
will be exhibiting prints, drawings and paint­
ings.
Jay Brooks, also known as Nature Boy, is 
primarily concerned with landscape, explain­
ing, “I guess you could say I’m a country boy. 
I grew up in a very picturesque, rural area.” 
Mr. Brooks enjoys interpreting landscape in 
different ways and is especially fond of aerial 
views. He explains, “I like flying and air­
planes a lot. When I fly home, I always get a 
window seat so I can look at the land.” 
Interpretation 
Just as Mr. Brooks enjoys interpreting land­
scape in different ways using aerial views, 
night scenes and cityscapes, he also finds 
different ideas about art inspiring. “There are 
so many different interpretations of art 
through history,” states Brooks, “I like to 
combine what I gather from other artists when 
I go to a museum and put it into my land­
scapes.” Mr. Brooks’ influences include the 
Hudson River Painters, Monet, John Con­
stable and Philip Guston.
Recently he has been making his paintings 
three dimensional by adding large sheets of
shaped metal to the canvas, remarking, “Why 
have two dimensions when you can have 
three?”
Realism vs. Impressions
Mr. Brooks has taken many anatomy classes 
and is a skilled draftsman. When drawing, 
Brooks usually restricts himself to the figure, 
explaining, “I like anatomy and the figure but 
consider it to be pure draftsmanship. I get 
caught up in gaining a likeness as opposed to 
painting, where I can be more free and open.”
The drawings included in the show started Mr. 
Brooks thinking of more interesting and dif­
ferent compositions for his painting. One 
drawing, depicting three figures was, “just a 
joke, at first, then it turned into something 
more.” Brooks explains, “My art isn’t a big 
political statement, I do it for personal enjoy­
ment. Actually, I’d like to give up painting and 
start building model airplanes. No, all kidding 
aside, I want to go to graduate school.”
Rick Cunningham will be showing woodcuts 
and paintings. His greatest influences include 
the Fauves, German Expressionism and the 
Bay Area Painters, specifically, Richard 
Diebenkom. Mr. Cunningham would not 
consent to an interview.
Rather than an opening this evening, there 
will be a closing on Friday night, 7-9 p.m. The 
show is open for viewing starting Wednesday, > > 
January 20th.
We can’t do it alone...
Diversions
needs
writers!
Meetings at The Tartan Office, Skibo 
Tuesdays at 8pm 
All Are Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page D13
Jackson in Strange Interlude
PITTSBURGH — Multiple Academy 
Award winner Glenda Jackson will star in 
a three-part, four-and-a-half hour produc­
tion of Eugene O’Neill’s monumental Pul­
itzer Prize winning drama, Strange Inter­
lude, which opens the seventh season of 
American Playhouse on three consecutive 
nights — Monday, Tuesday and Wednes­
day, January 18th, 19th, and 20th, at 9 pm 
on WQED/13.
The presentation also stars Kenneth Bran­
agh, David Dukes, Jose Ferrer, Rosemary 
Harris, Ken Howard and Edward Petherbr- 
idge. Herbert Wise (/, Claudius, Rumpole 
of the Bailey) is the director. Robert Enders 
adapted the script for television and served 
as Executive Producer. Philip Barry is the 
Producer for Bowden Productions, the 
company founded by Ms. Jackson and 
Enders in 1973.
Strange Interlude is being presented as 
part of an American Playhouse tribute to 
Eugene O’Neill, America’s only Nobel
Prize winning playwright.
Glenda Jackson and Edward Petherbr- 
idge starred in the critically acclaimed 
stage productions of Stage Interlude in 
1984 and 1985 in London and on Broad­
way. Both productions were smash hits. 
Ms. Jackson won the British Drama Award 
for Best Actress, and Edward Petherbridge 
won the Laurence Olivier Award as Best 
Actor. The Broadway production also gar­
nered six Tony Award nominations.
The play is a case history of Nina Leeds 
and her search for fulfillment. When her 
fiance, a military flier, is killed during 
World War I, she regrets not having mar­
ried him and bearing his child. Growing 
embittered and neurotic, she becomes a 
nurse in a veteran’s hospital after the war. 
Trying to make up for the loss of her loved 
one, she becomes sexually involved with 
many of her patients.
American Playhouse is underwritten in­
part by Hyeholde.
Diversions is Entertainment.
:d,dv7F
FEATEU
S
Relocating?
«WWWWW8 tHADYM* Anummm mommuiiAm•fom $4HM p0f monto
comm Of PWTh JMDaoummmTjgpar
It can be yours as 
an Air Force Pilot.
It's not easy, but 
the rewards are 
great You'll have 
all the Air Force 
advantages, such 
as 30 days of vaca­
tion with pay each 
year and complete 
medical care—and 
much more If 
you're a college 
graduate or soon 
will be, AIM HIGH. 
Contact your Air 
Force recruiter for 
details about 
Officer Training 
School and pilot 
training Call
Capt Larry Cocda 
412-607-7315 Cotect
WIN $3000
Enter the 6th Annual 
HONEYWELL FUTURIST Award Competition
Vision. Imagination. Technology. The world 25 years from now.
Today’s dreams become tomorrow’s reality. Write your vision 
of the world in 2013 and enter Honeywell’s 1988 Futurist 
Award Competition.
If you’re a full-time student at an accredited U.S. college or 
university, we invite you to use your imagination and 
knowledge of technology to write a 1500 word essay on the 
advances you foresee in one of several topics—electronics, 
industrial automation, aerospace, semiconductors, or
automation in homes and buildings—AND their social 
impact on the world of tomorrow.
If your ideas are among the most imaginative and technically 
feasible, you may be among the 10 winners awarded $3,000.
For Futurist Contest rules, entry form and a free 17 x 22 color 
poster of the Jean-Michel Folon print pictured above, call this 
toll-free number
1 (800) 328-5111 Ext. 1581
Don’t delay. You must request your entry form by March 4, 
1988 and mail your entry by March 18,1988
Honeywell
TEST THE LIMITS OF YOUR IMAGINATION
•City Theatre Show
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Diversions Stajfwriter 
The City Theatre Company, a professional 
theatre in residence at the University of Pitts­
burgh continues its season with Principia 
Scriptoriae. Penned by Richard Nelson, the 
play is a timely drama which explores the
# “principles of a writer” when challenged un­
der both left and right wing regimes in a Latin 
American country. The play represents the 
company’s continuing effort to bring new 
American drama to Pittsburgh, in the past the 
company has undertaken such widely known 
works as David Mamet’s Glengarry Glen 
Ross as well as the locally produced Rose 
Cottages.
6 Principia Scriptoriae, the third play in the 
company’s season, deals with two writers who 
find themselves under fire in a Latin American 
jail and then again in a conference room while 
elementary writing principles are ironically 
flashed overhead. Directed by the City 
Theatre ’s artistic director Marc Masterson, the 
play promises to be a provocative examination 
of the writer’s social and artistic responsibili- 
% ties.
Heading the cast of seven are Julio Ochoa 
and Paul Anderson as Ernesto and Bill, the two 
writers. Both are new to the Pittsburgh scene, 
Ochoa is a student at Point Park College and 
Anderson is a recent graduate of Ohio State 
University. Don Wadsworth plays the role of 
Norton Quinn, an American writer. Wad­
sworth is known in Pittsburgh for his perform- 
£ ances at the Pittsburgh Playhouse, where he 
has also directed, as well as the Three Rivers 
Shakespeare Festival. His film work includes
the soon to be released Dominick and Eugene, 
for which he served as dialect coach for Tom 
Hulce. Local morning radio personality Bob 
Tracey, a City Theatre veteran, having ap­
peared in the company’s Glengarry Glen 
Ross, portrays Hans Einhom, a German writer.
Rounding out the cast are Gene Cale, Rick 
Applegate and Ben Tatar. Cale and Applegate 
both make their City Theatre Company debuts 
with this production. Tatar was last seen in 
Glengarry Glen Ross as well as the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse’s production of 42nd Street and the 
films The Longest Day and The Wind and the 
Lion.
City Theatre Literary Manager Dennis Ken­
nedy and Technical Director John Donnelly 
collaborated on set design to produce what 
promises to be an innovative background for 
the play’s action. The principal scenic element 
is a series of mechanized fiberglass blinds that 
extend from the floor to the ceiling and double 
as jail bars and a projection screen.
Principia Scriptoriae will run from January 
27 through February 28 at the New City theatre 
in Oakland. Discussions with guest modera­
tors will follow certain performances. For 
more information phone the City Theatre Box 
Office at 624-PLAY.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D14—The Tartan—January 19,1988
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:00 and 5:00 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on February 1, 1988. 
Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his secretary at 268-2200 to 
set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days 
and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information desk @x2107. Phone
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day).
The Theolog is In. Each Thursday from 11 
am to 3 pm in Grey Matter, members of CM’s 
Campus Ministry Council are available for 
conversation on matters of theology, ethics or 
“anything else you’ve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask.” Please 
stop by.
Carnegie Mellon University Art Faculty Exhi­
bition. Carnegie Mellon University Art Gal­
lery, 407 S. Craig St. Through January 31. 
Exhibition of Paintings by Mary Mallott. 
Hewlett Gallery, CFA. Through February 14.
Three Rivers Arts Festival. Entry forms are 
now available to visual artists interested in 
entering in the 29th annual Three Rivers Arts 
Festival, June 3 - 19, 1988. Visual artists 
working with two dimensional art, sculpture, 
crafts, photography, film, video and in the 
artists’ market are invited to enter. This year 
the entry deadlineis February 6, 1988.
Poets are invited to submit their works to be 
considered for a series of readings in the 1988 
Literature Festival. All entries should be 
mailed to: Three Rivers Arts Festival, 207 
Sweetbriar St., Pittsburgh, PA 15211, Atten­
tion: Poetry Chairperson. Entries may also be 
hand delivered to the Festival Office located 
on Mount Washington. **
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito­
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CM’s Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward & 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus­
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa­
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb.
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday * 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
The Great Miniature Railroad and Village. 
Through February 28. 2 pm, Monday through 
Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Thursday and 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, 
Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Sunday.
Legends in the Sky. Through March 22. 2 ' 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm,
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm,
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at l 0 
pm - 5pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
The Brave Little Tailor. Can a little tailor 
defeat two giants? It seems dangerous. It 
seems impossible. But this little tailor has wits 
as sharp as his scissors and a bag full of tricks. 
Aurand Harris’ comic adaptation of the popu­
lar fairy tale is sure to delight the whole family. . > 
11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; 2:30 pm, 
Sundays; through March 20.
If you wish to submit an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event to The Tartan, 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania /15213. Send it 
by campus mail to the above addressor drop **' 
it off at 5017 Forbes Ave. (The house 
between DU and ATO.)
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its 
sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any events listed. In 
addition, The Tartan reserves the right to 
edit or omit any listing for publication.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next week’s 
issue.
Carnegie Mellon University Objectivist Forum <412> 683-3364
g /22/88What's Wrong With Welfare RightsTara Smith
g / 29/88Aristotelean vs. Platonic LoveDr. Alan Gotthelf
2/5/88The Failure of The Reagan RevolutionRobert Bidinotto
2/g 2/88Russia, Writers and the Zone of Stunned SilenceDr. Shoshana Knapp
3/4/88Heirarchy of ConceptsDr. Fred Seddon
3/g g /88Axiomatic ConceptsDr. Fred Seddon
3/g 8/88Self EsteemDr. Edwin Locke
4/8/88TBABrian Crago
4/g5/88A Moral Defense of America's Nuclear ArmsPeter Schwartz
4/22/88Open Discussion of Ayn Rand's Theory of ConceptsDr. David Kelley
4/29/88Reductionism In BiologyPamela Reinaqel
8:00 p.m. in MMg03. (April 8 in HHg000). Admission $g with CMU ID. Membership $25/semester.
*
Seniors
Expand Your Career Horizons...
Be In New York This February g7 & g8,g988
Make plans to attend CareerTrak’88, a unique college recruitment conference, where you’ II have the 
opportunity to meet and interview with hiring representatives from:
ETET
S.Pag eaP1aP3O2a4 
ncha44.rr haoir3s 
mPacO.P E v3Utr. 
d3sOU34 wau3l 
A3P4.P,b3Ut.PO 
fa4.’p.rr 
EPca eI.U2c3r 
k.p VaPl T.r.1Ia4. 
EPUca FEh h2D2s2a4 
yN N1P24O 
m3Pl.,h3D2s
EoOaU3O2c h3O3 mPac.ss24i
N3raUa4 Brothers
TI. mPou.4O23r
J3Pcr3’s J34l
TI. dLo2O3tr.
TI. J34l aC k.p VaPl
E.O43 b2C. A e3so3rO’
N.coP2O’ e312O3r eaP1aP3O2a4
n.OPa1ar2O34 b2C.
nMkV K2434c23r N.PD2c.s
eIott B Na4
m.a1r.-s J34l
Jro. ePass E Jro. NI2.ru - k5 
EU.P2c34 Y4O.P43O2a43r vPao1
K.u.P3r JoP.3o aC Y4D.sO2i3O2a4 
k3D3r E2P d4i24..P24i e.4O.P 
e.4OP3r Y4O.rr2i.4c. Ei.4c’ 
K.u.P3r faU. naPOi3i. EssacW 
Y4O.P43r F.D.4o. N.PD2c. 
h.C.4s. bai2sO2cs Ei.4c’ 
k3O2a43r Mc.342c E EOUas1I.P2c 
EuU242sOP3O2a4 
yN d4D2Pa4W mPaO.cO2a4 Ei.4c’ 
N2ra! Y4c 
ePoU E KaPsO.P 
ea44.cO2coO J34l E TPosO 
Y4soP34c. N.PD2c.s MCC2c.
n3ss noOo3r Y4soP34c. 
ea44.cO2coO k3O2a43r J34l 
yO2c3 k3O2a43r Y4soP34c. 
Nl’ eI.Cs 
n.Om3OI! Y4c
yEPc’ n3s2os J.4Oa4 E Japr.s 
A3PP.4 vaPI3U E b3Ua4O 
f3POCaPu NO.3U Ja2r.P Y4s1.cO2a4 
E Y4soP34c. 
IV. IV. vP324i.P! Y4c 
dP4.sO E 5or2a v3rra A24.P’ 
EU.P2c34 mP.s2u.4O eaU1342.s 
V3r. y42D.Ps2O’ FEh
These companies represent over 2,000 openings and seek seniors from the following disciplines:
Engineering;
Electrical
Mechanical
Chemical
Aerospace
Industrial
Manufacturing
Civil
Electronic
Computer Science 
MIS
Business Administration
Accounting
Marketing
Economics
Finance/Banking
Insurance
Management
Liberal Arts
Communications
F*ublic Relations
Journalism
English
Languages
Publishing
Actuarial Science
Math
Statistics
Physics
Chemistry
Biology
Please send your resume to CareerTrak *88, P.O. Box 1852, New Haven, CT 06508, no later than 
Jan. 29. Your resume will be reviewed based on academic achievement, work experience, 
and leadership ability, and all eligible students will receive an invitation to CareerTrak’88. Exciting 
premiums will be offered along with complimentary lunches and discounted Amtrak fares and hotel 
accommodations. Of course, there is no charge of any kind to you!
Q

---------------------------------------------------

Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted ....—
Typists: Hundreds weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066.
Writers: Articles wanted on child care, 
family life, health, time-saving tips. 826- 
9499 after five.
Apple Programmer: Programmer to write 
educational program for Apple computer. 
Please call 441-4444
Wanted: Students: Earn extra money to­
day, for the holidays and Spring Break 1988. 
No experience necessary, opportunity to be 
your own boss, work your own hours, earn 
unlimited income, prizes and trips. Call to­
day, Florida Sands Promotions (904) 257- 
2467
Leisure Time Tours needs student repre­
sentative to market spring break trips to 
Florida. Earn free trips and money - call 
(612) 784-2287 ___________________
¦¦¦¦ Housing , .
3 Bedroom house next to Schenley Park. 
Close to school and transportation. $650+ 
Call 521-4257.
For Rent. Large, comfortable, 1-Bedroom 
Apartment, full bath, fully equipped kitchen, 
wall-to-wall carpeting, laundry facilities. 
371-6666
Sublet: Entire 3rd floor of home for two 
persons near Schenley Park. 5 minute drive 
to campus. On busline. Furnished. Free laun­
dry facilities. Quiet, safe street. $130 p/per­
son includes everything. 422-3702 (24 
hours)
Apartment Rental: Shadyside. 1-Bed- 
room, wall-to-wall, security system, newly 
redecorated. 621-2873
...... Services
Pregnant? Need help? « Confidential
counseling • Free pregnancy test • 262-1220, 
Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center
Research Papers: 15,278 available! Cata­
log $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 351-0222, 
Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING 
or WORD PROCESSING
“The Medium is the Message” —
So why just type your documents when they 
can look printed and ready to publish with 
Electronic Publishing? It’ll cost more, but 
it’s worth it! Your work will command the 
attention it deserves.
Select from many typefaces. We can even 
scan your typed text or read your computers 
text and set it into type, without the need for 
retyping. We’re professionals with heavy 
duty hardware & software capabilities for 
the most sophisticated documents including 
header, footers, footnotes, index, table of 
contents, pictures and line art — all to pro- 
duce any kind of document, no matter how
simple or complex.
Call Tedd Powell at:
SUNNEYLEDGE GRAPHICS 
Fifth & Wilkins Aves. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 (412) 687-3445
~r For Sale =====
Silk-screen - 45 1/2" x 37 1/2". Never used. 
$65.00, call 531-5799
For sale: one single, wood bed frame with 
headboard and shelves, $40. Two stereo 
speakers — power mag, HF-7 Goliath, 7” x 
5” x 4”, small, good condition. 30-50 watts 
per speaker, $40. Call Linda, 683-2729
------Personals............
Blonde girl studying GMAT in October at 
Stanley Kaplan please give “me” a call. 683- 
3228.
4
€
#
t
’NKEA3T2E
in The Tartan
and reach 6700 students, staff, and faculty of 
Carnegie Mellon University
Display Advertising
A page in The Tartan measures 10 V2” x 16”. The pages are divided 
into 4 columns, each 2V2” wide and separated by a V6” space. For 
advertising purposes, pages are further divided into column- 
inches. A column-inch is a space that is 1 column wide and 1 inch 
high.
Display ad prices are computed by multiplying the number of 
column-inches ordered by the column-inch rate of $5.75. For 
example, an ad 2 columns wide and 5 inches high would cost 
$57.50 = 2 x 5 x $5.75. The Tartan has standard page divisions 
which are discounted and clearly more economical.
Minimum insertion is 2 column-inches.
column-inch rate..................................................................$5.75
V8 page (2 col x 4 in).............................................................$45.00
Page (2 col x 7V2 in)..........................................................$85.00
V2 page (4 col x 772 in)........................................................$160.00
full page (4 col x 16 in).......................................................$300.00
Student organizations recognized and/or funded 
by Senate are entitled to a 50% discount!
Display advertisement space must be reserved in person or over 
the phone one week before the ad is to run. Ad copy must be in The 
Tartan office the Thursday before the ad is to run.
Classified Advertising
Classified ads are priced according to the number of words 
appearing in the ad.
1 to 20 words.........................................................................$3.00
21 to 50 words.......................................................................$5.00
over 50 words........................................................................$8.00
Classified ads must be submitted in writing by the Friday before 
the ad is to run.
—.......... —— "" .................. 1 1
The latest addition to The Tartan, where you can put anything you 
want in print! For FREE!
• Let that special someone know how you feel...
• Thank all those people youVe been meaning to...
• Vent frustrations against your roommate...
• 25 words or less • No advertisements • Keep it clean, please
Send all submissions to: Office: Skibo, Room 50
U.S. Mail: Campus Mail:
The Tartan The Tartan
Box 17 Skibo Information Desk
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 or call (412) 268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16—The Tartan—January 19,1988
Events
Movies
Angel Heart, starring Mickey Rourke, Robert 
De Niro, Lisa Bonet and Charlotte Rampling. 
Private detective looks for a missing singer in 
this tense film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Dr. Eric S. G. Shaqfeh, AT&T Bell 
Laboratories, speaks on “A Non-local Theory 
of Heat Conduction in Dilute and Semi-dilute 
Fibrous Composites” at 11 am in DH 1112. 
Coffee and pastries are served at 10:45 am in 
Conference Room 1102.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De­
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Men’s and Women’s Swimming. Home 
meet against Bethany College at 4 pm. 
Women’s Basketball. Away game against 
Juniata College at 7 pm.
Myma Loy and Maureen O’Sullivan. The 
Dashiell Hammett story comes to the screen in 
this first of a long line of fast, funny and classy 
adventures of Nick and Nora Charles. The 
best of the series. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Die Erste Polka, sponsored by German Film 
Series. PH 100 at 7 pm. Admission is free. 
Special Events
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De­
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Women’s Basketball. Home game against 
Thiel College at 6 pm.
Men’s Basketball. Home game against Thiel 
College at 8 pm.
Movies
The Thin Man, starring William Powell,
Movies
The Name of the Rose, starring Sean Connery 
and F. Murray Abraham. Terrific murder 
mystery set in a 14th century monastery during 
the inquisition. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:45 pm. Admission $2.95.
Athens, Georgia - Inside/Out. Following on 
the heels of R.E.M.’s overwhelmingly suc­
cessful concert at Pittsburgh’s Civic Arena, 
we present this spectacular documentary
“But if dreams come true, oh, 
wouldn’t it be nice”
- B. Springsteen
Michele-
Congratulations on the 4.0. 
Keep it up!
- Another 4.0
Baci D.-
Could we ugamosis together 
sometime soon?
- L.B.B.’s little buddy
“And if I seem a little strange 
Well that’s because I am 
If I seem a little strange 
That’s because I am.”
- Morrissey
Brothers and Pledges of 0X- Welcome back: We missed
you!
Your Little Sisters
You’re not a real woman until 
you’ve put an SAE brother in 
your past!
Oh well, just more Ox Poop 
from the Tartan!
Always tip generously when 
you're breaking the law.
I don't know, I can recognize 
my own species.
C-
What the hell's that thing you 
left under the bed!? (I liked it!) 
-L.
La La La La La La La La La La La 
La La La La.
- Van Morrison
Angel, Zoro, Kiwi, Thumper, 
and Beastie. Don’t we make a 
lovely family?
Hello?
Hello, Christine?
Yes?
Um, uh, this is Bob. Um, I know 
this is going to sound really 
stupid, but, um...
"click'
h77777777777777 77.7777.777777.77.77.7. ..
Heyjeckleby- 
You nob, you nob, you nob. 
It's good to have you back to 
harrass.
Phred’s IS the official Bar and 
Bar of the 1988 Olympic Games.
All those with 4.0's shall die a 
slow and horrible death!
which examines the remarkable music scene 
emanating from Athens, GA. In addition to 
R.E.M., Athens has spawned such notable 
bands as the B52’s, Dreams So Real and Love 
Tractor. Explosive concert footage, small 
club footage of Athens’ myriad local talent. 
Filmmakers'at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For showing time call 681 -5449. 
Withnail and I, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210at6pm,8pm,and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Movies
The Princess Bride, starring Mandy Patinkin, 
Christopher Guest and Billy Crystal. Delight­
ful fairy-tale adventure with real life monsters 
and evil princes, e„tc. and a great moment from 
a bumbling wizard played by Crystal. Based 
on William Goldman’s novel. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Athens, Georgia - Inside/Out. Following on 
the heels of R.E.M.’s overwhelmingly suc­
cessful concert at Pittsburgh’s Civic Arena, 
we present this spectacular documentary 
which examines the remarkable music scene 
emanating from Athens, GA. In addition to 
R.E.M., Athens has spawned such notable 
bands as the B52’s, Dreams So Real and Love 
Tractor. Explosive concert footage, small 
club footage of Athens’ myriad local talent. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For showing time call 681-5449. 
The Mexican Tapes: A Chronicle of Life 
outside the Law, starring Louis Hock. San 
Diego-based film and video artist Hock pres­
ents and discusses two parts of his engrossing 
four-part video documentary on covert Mexi­
can workers in California. Hock allows this 
community to tell its own story and creates an 
intimate discourse which can begin to correct 
popular misconceptions about illegal immi­
grants. Carnegie Museum of Art Film at 8 pm. 
Admission $3.
Predator, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1. v
Sports
Men’s & Women’s Swimming. Kenyon 
Invitational.
Saturday
Movies
Someone to Watch Over Me, starring Tom 
Berenger, Mimi Rogers and Lorraine Bracco. 
Classy thriller about a New York cop who 
becomes involved with a woman he’s as­
signed to protect. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Athens, Georgia * Inside/Out. Following on 
the heels of R.E.M.’s overwhelmingly suc­
cessful concert at Pittsburgh’s Civic Arena, 
we present this spectacular documentary 
which examines the remarkable music scene 
emanating from Athens, GA. In addition to 
R.E.M., Athens has spawned such notable 
bands as the B52’s, Dreams So Real and Love 
Tractor. Explosive concert footage, small 
club footage of Athens’ myriad local talent. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For showing time call 681 -5449. 
The Lost Boys, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Special Events
A public forum entitled, “Paperworkers 
Lead Fight Against Concessions and Union
Busting” is held at 7:30 pm at Pathfinder 
Bookstore on 4905 Penn Ave., Garfield.®. 
Representatives from Paperworkers local 
1787 who are locked out of International Paper 
Company’s Lock Haven Pa. plant will speak.
A wine and cheese reception precedes the 
forum.
Sports
Men’s & Women’s Swimming. Kenyon ~ 
Invitational.
Women’s Basketball. Home game against 
Washington University at 2 pm.
Men’s Basketball. Away game against 
Washington University at 7:30 pm.
Sunday
Movies
My Fair Lady, starring Audrey Hepburn, Rex 
Harrison, Stanley Holloway and Wilfred 
Hyde-White. A musical treat that is absolutely 
“loverly” to the eyes and ears. Many well- 
deserved Oscars. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Athens, Georgia - Inside/Out. Following on 
the heels of R.E.M.’s overwhelmingly suc­
cessful concert at Pittsburgh’s Civic Arena, 
we present this spectacular documentary 
which examines the remarkable music scene 
emanating from Athens, GA. In addition to 
R.E.M., Athens has spawned such notable 
bands as the B52’s, Dreams So Real and Love 
Tractor. Explosive concert footage, small 
club footage of Athens’ myriad lccal talent. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For showing time call 681 -5449. 
Heavy Metal, sponsored by AB Films. DH at 
6 pm and 8 pm. \
Alice in Wonderland (X), sponsored by AB 
Films. DH at 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight.
Sid & Nancy, sponsored by AB Films. DH at 
6 pm, 10 pm and midnigh?.
25 Monday
Movies
La Strada, starring Anthony Quinn and 
Giuletta Massina. A brutish man takes on a 
slow-witted waif in this great film classic. 
Oscar for Best Foreign Film. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Athens, Georgia - Inside/Out. Following on 
the heels of R.E.M.’s overwhelmingly suc­
cessful concert at Pittsburgh’s Civic Arena, 
we present this spectacular documentary 
which examines the remarkable music scene 
emanating from Athens, GA. In addition to 
R.E.M., Athens has spawned such notable 
bands as the B52’s, Dreams So Real and Love 
Tractor. Explosive concert footage, small 
club footage of Athens’ myriad local talent. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, ' 
Downtown. For showing time call 681 -5449.
Lectures
Art Department Visiting Artist Lectures.
Edgar Heap of Birds, artist, speaks on “Apart­
heid Oklahoma” (The Art of Native American 
P.O. Ws of 1870 and of Modem Warriors) at 7 i 
pm in WeH 7500.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
O
