Vol. 69, No. 36C-MUFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1970
Duckworth Outlines New Court System
Stresses Student Activism 
Wide Scope of Intrests
by Murray Singer
Joe Duckworth, president of the Student Senate, be­
gan his short State of the University address by proclaim­
ing the death of the • ivory tower" at C-MU. The message 
drew attention to the waning apathy on the part of stu­
dents and to the development of moral conscience of the 
understanding that the university must contribute toward 
the functioning of society. Duckworth pointed out that as 
one of the primary sources of research, the university 
must attempt to increase the relevance of this research 
with respect to the problems which the community as a 
whole faces.
Duckworth continued by stressing that the resur­
gence of student interest has generated concern and posi­
tive response on the part of faculty and administration. 
While student attention this year has focused upon the 
Black Construction Coalition's struggles, the November 
Moratorium, and the danger of pollution, to name a few. 
members of C-MUs faculty have likewise become in­
volved in an active way in facing these issues. Our school 
has expanded to include a faculty of Humanities and So­
cial Sciences, which will increase the diversity of the type 
of student attracted to C-MU. Duckworth stated that he 
telt it most important to ensure for H&SS adequate funds 
to secure high level stall in order to render its addition 
meaningful.
Student interest has turned inward to the university 
as well as outward to the community. Students now occupy 
positions on faculty and administration groups at every 
level. There are student members on the Educational Po­
licy Council, the College Council and various Trustee com­
mittees. In addition, students are petitioning for a perma­
nent seat on the Board ot Trustees. Aside from adding the 
students point of view, student members of such groups 
aie frequently in the positional being .able to make sug­
gestions which faculty or administration members are 
hesitant to make, tot oneieason or another.
Along with increased intei est has come the increased 
sense of responsibility on the part ol the Student Senate. 
With a budget of $84,000. the Senate has supported an ex­
panded social calendar, with the aid of the Activities 
Board. Duckworth outlined several of the programs which 
have taken place in recent months and expressed the hope 
that the Senate budget would be increased in the coming 
year.
Duckworth completed his address by discussing the 
attempt on the part of Student Senate to develop a uni­
versal Campus Disciplinary Code, in conjunction with 
members of the faculty. He proposed, in the light of the 
failure to agree with faculty on the concept of a common 
code lor students and teachers, that a student court of live 
men be established tor junsdiction over student disciplin­
ary cases. He turther recommended that the Executive 
Council act as an "appeals" court and that a linal appeal 
to the president or his representative be permitted. He 
uiged that the Senate members of the Conference Com­
mittee on a Campus Code make such a recommendation 
*>o that a referendum could be held on the matter at the 
same time as the Student Senate elections March 11-12.
Confidential Forms
Due By March 15
Students, who wish to apph loi linancial aid in the 
academic year 1970-71 are reminded that the Parents 
Confidential Statement must be completed and sent to 
College.Scholarship Service immediately. The Student Ap­
plication is due in the Financial Aid Ollice by March 15.
The above tot ms were mailed to undeigiaduates who 
cuiiently receive aid. Howevei. il you are a linancial aid 
*t‘cipient and did not receive these toims. please come to 
Financial Aid Office. 210 Wainei Hall, lot both the 
^aientb Conlidential Statement and the Student Applica- 
i '*on. Students who are applying toi undergiaduate aid lor 
,lu-* first time should obtain these same two loi ms.
President Joe Duckworth answers questions alter deliver­
ing speech to Senate.
Not A Conspiracy, 
But 5 Incited Riot
Although all seven members ol the Chicago Conspir­
acy were acquitted Wednesday of the charges ot conspir­
ing to incite riots during the 1968 Democratic Conven­
tion. five of them were found guilty ot crossing a state line 
to incite a riot. David Dellinger. Abbie Hoffman. Jerry 
Rubin. Thomas Hayden and Rennie Davis were lound guil­
ty: delendents Lee Weiner and John Fronies were aquit- 
ted and released.
Those found guilty are liable to sentences ol up to 
live years in prison and linds ot $10.000 each.
The indictment in the Chicago trial charged each ot 
the delendents with conspiracy during the Convention as 
well as a separate "substantive act related to that con­
spiracy. The jury's duty was to determine separately the 
guilt or innocence ol each delendent on each ol the two 
charges. In order to come*to a verdict, the jury had a vast 
amount of evidence before them including testimony pre­
sented by over 200 witnesses ovei a period of 20 weeks.
While the jury deliberated, the delendents remained 
in the Cook County jail where they began serving time 
last week for contempt ol court. Last Saturday and Sun- 
dav. Judge Hoffman sentenced all ol the delendents and 
two ol the defense attorneys -to a combined total ol 15 
years and one month for contempt. Although the delen­
dents were sent to jail immediately, the lawyer's sen­
tences were delayed until May 4 in order loi them to have 
time to prepare an appeal.
Judge Holtman refused to give those convicted bond, 
explaining that "alter watching the evidence and the con­
duct ot the delendents. I have determined they are dan­
gerous men to be at large.
At noon Wednesday about 1.000 people held a rally in 
tront ot the Federal Building to protest against the con­
tempt sentences. "Jail the judge, free the conspiracy." 
was a trequent chant.
Betore the jury had returned then verdict to the 
court room, the detense tiled a motion tor a mistrial on 
the piesumption that they, the jury, was indetinitely 
deadlocked. When the delendents were brought from 
their cells they thought they would merely hear arguments 
b\ the detense lor declaring a mistrial.
Interested in Organizing Next Year’s Freshman Camp and Orientation?
THEN COME . . .
Monday, February 23
4:30 P.M.
WHERRET ROOM 
SKIBO
Code Discussed in Senate 
Faculty's Aid Welcomed
by Murray Singer
During the regular Student Senate meeting which fol­
lowed Joe Duckworth s State of the University address, 
the primary item ot business was a prolonged discussion 
between the Senate and several faculty members on the 
question of the development of a campus disciplinary 
code. The discussion began alter Ken Friend untabled his 
own motion ol Feb. 3 which urged that the Student Senate 
accept the faculty's rejection of a universal code for 
both faculty and students, and pursue the development of 
a code lor students only. Tom Burgess amended the mo­
tion by attaching a preamble which condemned faculty for 
refusing to participate in the development of a universal 
code and showing a lack ol faith in the students.
Professor Dan Resnick was the first to respond on be­
half of the faculty. He told the Senate that faculty did not 
lack faith in the students, but rather in themselves with 
respect to a tear of suppression. He stated that professors 
do not want to become involved in the development ot new 
regulations which might contribute to an atmosphere of 
repression. This type ol code has been used elsewhere to 
punish faculty and students for their political views.
On the other hand. Prof. Resniek emphasized that the 
students of C-MU should continue in their attempt to de­
velop a lair and non-repressive code in order to govern 
themselves. Because faculty members are already ac­
countable through their contracts for violation of regula­
tions. they wduld not want to expose themselves to another 
disciplinary body. They are. however, prepared to aid stu­
dents develop their own code.
Tom Burgess then replied that Protessor Resnick s 
remarks would be lully acceptable, given that the admin­
istration agrees to permit the students to govern them­
selves in disciplinary matters. But Professor Langer re­
iterated Protessor Resnick's tears of excessive repres­
sion ol the freedom ol faculty members. He told the Sen­
ate that regulations concerning a teacher s conduct in re­
lation to his students might intimidate younger members 
ot the taculty.
Thus, the issue boiled down to a conflict between sev- 
eial students, who telt that taculty and students should 
be subject to the same rules ol discipline and members ot 
the faculty , who asserted that they had adequate protec­
tion. Two senators claimed that junioi taculty was in need 
ol protection against the powei of senior faculty and cited 
specific examples. Tom Burgess summed up the discus­
sion by admitting that faculty would not be likely to enter 
into a disciplinary system which would tend to be to their 
detriment since they consider their present protection as 
adequate. He moved that his amendment to the motion be 
dropped and urged the acceptance ot whatever aid faculty 
might provide in the establishment ot a Campus Code. 
Subsequently , the motion urging that the Student Senate 
rapidly develop such a code was passed.
StrreSsutd n n n
ENTIRE TARTAN 
STAFF MEETING
Sunday, February 22
2:00 p.m.
TARTAN OFFICE 
FOR THISTLE PICTURE

---------------------------------------------------

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Page 2—THE TARTAN—Friday, February 20, 1970
Editorial
Although we remain unhappy about the faculty’s refusal to 
participate in a campus-wide disciplinary code, we must agree 
with their perception that there is good reason to believe that we 
are entering an era of increasing repression from civil author­
ities. We, too, fear that events such as the Chicago Conspiracy 
trial, the most appalling and disastrous aberration of justice this 
country has ever experienced, is indicative of growing political 
repression.
But it is for that very reason that we feel it is of critical im­
portance for a workable and fair judicial system and campus 
code be developed so that the necessity of calling in civil author­
ities is minimized. If the faculty wants to operate under a sys­
tem of justice in which the University may punish only by the 
drastic measures of cancellation or refusal to renew contractual 
obligations, and in which all other kinds of offenses outside the 
classroom may be punishable by civil authorities, then it seems 
to us that they are defeating their purpose. For according to the 
faculty, civil judicial processes are harsher than those which 
may be imposed by the University, and the only recourse the 
University has is the drastic one involving contracts. We under­
stand that nobody wants more rules and regulations than are 
necessary. But rules often do guarantee freedoms, as in the case 
of the Constitution of the United States.
Students, of course, are in a much more tenuous position 
than the faculty. Certainly the University considers the dismis­
sal of a faculty member to be more serious than the dismissal of 
a student. Therefore, we agree with the faculty that it is more 
important for students to revise the existing code in order to 
protect themselves and insure guaranteed rights and freedoms.
Yet because the proposed judicial system excludes academ­
ic offenses, and because non-academic conduct applies equally 
to all members of the University community, all members of 
the campus should be willing to adhere to a set of regulations. 
When everyone is subject to the same code, a more congenial 
community, based on trust, is established.
But it is obviously time to stop beating a dead horse into the 
ground and lamenting the faculty’s decision to refuse to partici­
pate. We must proceed to develop a campus code for students. 
This new code must be developed and administered by students 
alone as only they come under its jurisdiction.
The system proposed by Joe Duckworth in his speech Tues­
day seems to be a good solution to our current dilemma. A court 
of student justices to provide original jurisdiction and an ap­
peals court composed of what is now the Executive Council of 
Student Government, i.e., president of SG, presidents of Com­
muters, AWS, MDC, CFP, and Graduate Representative, would 
insure students the right of due process. The proposal of an in­
dependent, impartial moderator would help the court maintain 
balance, keeping it in touch with the administration who has the 
final voice of approval over the court’s decisions.
We urge the Senate to act as soon as possible to develop a 
judicial procedure which will be ready to submit to the campus 
for ratification by the March 11 and 12 election.
tqrEn
Published every Tuesday and Friday
Editorial and Business Offices—Skibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213—Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, Editor-in-chief 
Associate Editor Jenifer Digby
Business Manager Sue Cattano
Managing Editor Wayne Barron
News Editor Jamie Edlin
Features Editor Chuck Daly
Sports Editors Alan Letxt and Larry Brean
Desk Editors Meredith Hall and Harriet Nadel
Photography Editors............................................................................William Pence
and Joe Tyler
Local Advertising Managers Pe99Y Hermann and Vic Lovuola
National Advertising Manager Beverly Noretsky
News Staff: Patricia McDonald, Pam Horner, Sue Shilane, Larry Stirling,
Murray Singer, Meredith Hall, Sara Cooper, Andi Lieberman, and Bar­
bara Hobbs.
Business Staff: Alina Lao and Mary Lipsett.
Secretarial Staff: Janice Herman and Sally Foss.
Layout Staff: Beth Anne Haner, Sharon Morgan, Ralph Pritts, Paul Sny­
der, Mark Vogel, Jeff Green, Bob Hanna, and Chuck Daly. 
Photography Staff: Jerry Siskind, Eric Werme, Art Werchulz, Joe Rosen,
Marty Bauer, Dan Barnett, Randy Zotter, Jim Call, and Leon Pinkney. 
Sports Staff: Les Kovalik, Jon Swierzewski, Sally Wilson, Nancy Chand­
ler, Jim Tomayko, Allan Henderson, and Scott Miller.
McCool Guilty Of Grammatical Pollution
Editor. The Tartan
To: Sam McCool
Dear Sam.
Since ecology is likely to be the 
most urgent problem confronting 
America during this decade. I was 
most interested to read your let­
ter to the editor (Feb. 13. 1970» 
exposing pollution in the Tartan. 
I refer to the f irst sentence of your 
second paragraph which reads. "I 
refer to trite phrases and the poor 
sentence structure that pollutes 
the Tartan in every publication."
No less an authority than the 
Son of God said. “Let him who is 
without sin cast the first stone." 
Drop that rock Sam.
Your sentence reveals you to be 
a grammatical hypocrite, guilty 
of the same pollution wThich you 
deplore. You use a singular verb, 
"pollutes." to refer to a compound 
subject, "phrases" and "strut*-« 
ture." This is equivalent to writ-
mg. "The cats and dog is sick." 
The correct veib form would have 
been the plural, pollute. A plural 
verb also corrects my above ex­
ample. making it. "The cats and 
the dog are sick."
Furthermore, your sentence 
structure is in desperate need of 
a "the" to preceed the word
"trite, to give the sentence bal­
ance. Sam. I've read better sen­
tences in the Tartan!
I suggest that you read The Ele­
ments of Style by William Strunk. ^ 
Jr. and E. B. White. Physician, 
heal thyself.
Doug Campbell 
Freshman. H&SS
In ntenrs diO garznOn NxdYd’ang ed IFhm CdO diO dpago 
gadr ed ’a?n e4naO geNCC zOnsae CdO :Oar’ar’ e4n gnziOae3 aggin 
:nCdOn e4n zNpxig0 m4n eapn Nrs nCCdOe e4n3 sn?dens ed 
OngnNOz4 Nrs :OdNszNgear’ sngnO?ng Onzd’raeadr Nrs zdpo 
pirazNeadr
Old Men Defeat Globetrotters
Editor. The Tartan:
There has been a great public 
clamoring (including two anony­
mous autograph demands and an 
attempted handshake» in response
Artichoke Facts Mis-reported
Editor. The Tartan:
When I read a review. I accept 
it as one man's opinion based on 
the limits of his interest and edu­
cation. I argue with the recent re­
view of the Artichoke Theater, not 
on the grounds of Bill Phillips' 
opinion, but on the reporting of 
facts. Because one is writing a 
"review one cannot overlook a 
journalist's obligation to his read­
ers to report facts.
Now had Mr. Phillips read the 
program he would have realized 
that Richard Reichman did not 
write the two plays, a young man 
named Frank Parman did. The 
name of the first play was "new 
play; a (city-closet drama." The 
second play called NAGAUTA had 
a sub-title (also found in the pro­
gram i "love song."
There were eight actors. I don't 
know where the Tartan reviewer 
sat. but anyone in the audience 
could plainly see that.
Thd large wooden structures 
were labled as the ticket counter 
and corner store: the king's struc­
ture was a shoe shine stand, 
throne, rooming house and many 
other things. They were clearly 
defined by props, dialogue and ac­
tion.
I could go on but I think the Tar­
tan readers understand my point. 
It is a shame that Bill Phillips saw 
and reviewed the Artichoke's per­
formance on one of his off nights.
J. Roth 
An English Major 
Who Know How to Read
to my analysis of the Tartan’s tail­
ings. Forthwith. I silence all re­
buttals wTith this contribution of 
proper news to your paper. It con­
cerns the minor league intramur- 
al basketball team of which I am 
a proud but properly humble mem­
ber.
The Globetrotters lost again 
last Tuesday night to the Old Men 
Purple People Eaters. 53-50. 
bringing then record to 0-4. Alex 
Riddel starred with 12 points for 
the losers. Watch them in action 
Thursday at 9 p.m. on Court B.
Alexander Riddel. Ill
Support Chicago Conspiracy
Editor. The Tartan:
„ For the past week the Pitts­
burgh Peace Coalition with the 
help ot other groups and individ­
uals have been collecting money 
to set up school lunch programs 
tor poor children.
Of the 40 some odd areas that 
need this program the government 
has only been able to take care of 
about 20 per cent of them. What 
an insult. A government that 
spends in the order of magnitude 
of 100 billion dollars a year for 
defense cannot find a few tens of 
thousands of dollars (about one 
percent of one percent of one per­
cent i to feed some of the people 
it is "defending." Instead the gov­
ernment chooses to repress 
groups such as the Black Panther 
Party (which in several areas of 
the country have done a much bet­
ter job to feed poor children than 
the government of this country 
has i. People such as the Chicago 
Conspiracy who struggle for peace 
are becoming the enemy of the 
government. That's a choice.
We too have to make a choice. 
Giving money for school lunches 
is a choice. So is coming out pub­
licly against government repres­
sion. This Saturday there will be a 
peaceful, legal demonstration 
(4:30 p.m. at the Federal Build­
ing i in support of the Chicago Con­
spiracy. Stay home and be count­
ed as a member of the Great Si­
lent Majority or come and take 
a stand in support of the freedoms 
that many people talked so noble 
of in response to incidents when 
Strom Thurmond visited. It s your 
choice.
John Agatston
OnenLine!
621- WRCT
SUNDAY NIGHTS, I0:30, with Steve Harris
OpenLineF goes beyond mere factual reporting. OpenLinef 
brings the specialists and the newsmakers to the air, live, (or 
questioning by you. OpenLino! calls taken at 621~wrctor 01 
in Morewood, 10:30*12 every Sunday evening. This week’s 
guests will be
"DRUGS IN THE DORMS"
Mr. Tom Kerr of The American Civil Liberties Union;
Dr. Jim Korn, associate professor of Psychology at at C-MU;
Dr. Jim Hardt, Instructor of Psychology at C-MU;
Dr. Edward L. Bamonto, director of the C-MU. health department;
Dr. Robert M .Morgan, director of the C-MU counseling Center and associate professor 
of psychology.
presented by
WRCT NEWS/9

---------------------------------------------------

by Joe Duckworth
The ivory tower is dead—at long last. It lasted long­
er here at C-MU than it had at many institutions—but it 
is dead. Our sheltered haven, its indifference and apathy, 
have been challenged by the problems of society of which 
we are truly a part. Instead of a parasitic growth contri­
buting academic interest, at best, the university in gener­
al. and this one in particular, is beginning to realize that 
it must be a concerned, contributing member of the total 
society. In the use of its superior resources for research 
and in its official attitudes, the university is developing a 
social awareness and. much to its chagrin, a moral con­
science as well.
Behind such change is student activism. Concerning 
both campus issues and those of broader scope the resur­
gence of student interest has prompted university action. 
As demonstrated by fraternity sit-in for prompt action 
on new housing and by the massive support shown for 
the Black Coalition, a new awareness and concern is man­
ifest. The nationwide success of the anti-war moratorium 
program and the development of concern for ecology indi­
cate that the new found activism is neigher a local—nor a 
temporary—situation.
It would be unfair not to note actions of the faculty 
and administration in response to student petition 01 on 
their own initiative. The development and expansion of 
C-Map is a step out of the ivory tower and should be com­
mended. The plighj of the BCC was first brought to light 
by an independent faculty group. Currently a study into 
the air pollution problem in Allegheny County as a student 
project is offered in engineering, recognizing the need to 
bring relevant issues into the classroom.
Diversity of the University through the creaion and 
tunding of H&SS and the Urban School is another positive 
change that may have considerable implications for the 
tuture. These two schools will attract a new type of stu­
dent-more socially aware than the professionally orient­
ed CIT and Fine Arts student. It is unfortunate that the 
program to develop H&SS has not been given priority com­
parable to that of the new computation center. The devel­
opers of the innovative curriculum in H&SS are making a 
valiant effort to make up for meager budget appropria­
tions. A Humanities School needs no labs or computers— 
it's only strength lies in good teaching and a good library. 
If we have made a commitment to a standard-bearing 
school of humanities, we must back up the commitment 
with financial resources. These financial assets are avail­
able to the Urban School. Let us hope that it will use these 
resources to develop a viable approach to the complex 
problems of the cities.
Student interest and activism has expanded outward 
to Vietnam, the Black Coalition and ecology, but it also 
has expanded inward to toster a new concern for the oper­
ations of the university. Students presently sit as voting 
members on administrative and faculty groups at every 
level—and student representatives have contributed ef­
fectively in every area of concern. Students sat on the Po­
licy Advisory Board during the September demonstra­
tions and presented views that differed considerably with 
those of many administrative members of the Board. The 
name of the game is "Communication" and with mcreas-
POasN3. Pn:OiNO3 MS. uy,Sbm2T mKFmKfbAN’n c
Address
ed interaction, possible misunderstandings can be avoid­
ed. On the Educational Policy Council students served as 
a catalyst during the MMCC debates when it appeared 
that any one faculty member was afraid to "cast the first 
stone" against the continuation of MMCC and thus against 
a fellow faculty member. Delay and inaction and further 
decay in a bad situation may have resulted had not stu­
dents been present to decide that "the buck stops here." 
In addition, students have recently gained seats on College 
Councils, on Trustee Committees and are presently peti­
tioning for representation on the Board of Trustees itself. 
It is expected that by the April meeting of the Board at 
least one student will be seated in at least an ex-officio 
capacity.
But representation is not an end in itself—although 
contribution to discussion and decision-making is impor 
tant.student initiative is where the major contribution 
can be made. The complaint of closed departments by Stu­
dent Senate brought action of both long and short-term 
nature to alleviate the situation in the Psychology Depart­
ment. Currently, abolishment of the graduation require­
ment of physical education is being studied by the Educa­
tional Policy Council at the request of Student Govern­
ment. The listing of instructors on registration forms and 
the dropping of Easter Monday came as a result of stu­
dent action, and much more is possible with increased 
student awareness.
Not only has Student Senate taken the role of initiator 
in university affairs, but it has also developed a much in­
creased sense of responsibility over its own affairs. In 
two years, its financial appropriation has tripled to appro- 
mately $84,000 and it is solely responsible for that sum 
—in appropriating, accounting, and balancing over the fis­
cal year. The additional funds have been used for an ex­
panded social calendar through the creation of the Activ­
ities Board, and for the support of new and expanded pro­
grams. These have included such things as the African 
Symposium, the Fringe Booth at Carnival 1969. and the 
Relative Truth. It has made it possible for the Trtan to 
publish twice weekly and the Thistle to expand its cover­
age. The underlying principle behind all of these allo­
cations is that groups with initiative should be able to pur­
sue their projects and programs with financial subsidy. 
In the coming year it is hoped that the budget will be in­
creased to allow continuation and expansion of present 
programs. To meet this need a minimum of $95,000 will 
be necessary—and more—up to approximately $120,000 
—would be needed for optimum operations.
Senate has continued its regulations of the use of Ski- 
bo and for the first time in several years, the majority of 
people in Skibo are from C-MU. Following the Von Braun 
lecture, the Senate investigated the process of distribu­
tion of tickets. As a result of the investigation, students 
shall no longer be excluded from Skibo programs. The 
Senate has been active in other areas—and will soon re­
lease to the campus a comprehensive Birth Control Publi­
cation.
One area which has been left completely unresolved 
is the determination of a viable campus judicial code. 
Recognizing the faculty's objection to participation in a
Conspiracy Day Protest 
Against Judicial Farce
When they start giving the lawyers suffer sen­
tences than they give the defendants, brother, we re 
in trouble. As you know, that's what happened in 
Chicago at the Conspiracy trial. Then, of course, 
the crowning touch was the Bar Association coming 
out saying that they were going to investigate 
Kunstler and decide whether he should be disbar- 
red. The head of the Bai Association said that if 
lawyers and defendants were allowed to conduct 
tnals like the Conspiracy trial, pretty soon there 
would be no courts left. Right on!
But seriously, imagine the Bar Association drop- 
' Ping a bomb on a guy when he s trying to recover 
horn being beaten up. Nearly everyone who knows 
about the Conspiracy Trial, even people who don't 
agree with what the defendants have been doing, 
agree that Judge Hoffman is at least as much at 
fault in this trial as they are. But the Bar Associa­
tion hasn't bothered to question the judge—that 
ought be disrespectful.
Don t kid yourself about what these sentences 
mean to you. If they are allowed to stand, it means 
that in the future any judge in this country can sen­
tence you or me to prison, without any right of ap­
peal. tor things like raising our eyebrows, speak- 
lnM in a harsh tone of voice, or anything elese he 
doesn't like. It s been tough enough to get just in the 
courts in the past few years, imagine what it'll be 
hke when these cracker judges are allowed to put 
you and me away just because they don't like the 
way we act!
It's ironic that Feb 21—the day of nationwide 
demonstrations to show support for the Conspiracy 
k~was the da\ Malcolm X was assassinated. Mal­
colm said in 1963 that America had to expect the
chickens to come home to roost. He said that when 
you send a CIA and other organizations throughout 
the world with license to kill world leaders and over­
throw governments, pretty soon you've got to ex­
pect people at home to start doing the same things. 
I think that applies in this case, too: in Vietnam and 
throughout the world the United States had conduct­
ed its business the same way Chicago has: sooner 
01 later it had to come home. Maybe if we had been 
able to stop American fascism in Vietnam it would- 
n't have started here—let s hope it's not too late to 
stop it here.
I think the government misjudged the reaction 
of people to this trial. At this writing it looks like 
they've lost two police stations and a ROTC office 
in protest of the contempt citations; plus there've 
been riots in at least two cities, and in a third the 
demonstrators tear-gassed the federal building!
Here in Pittsburgh we don t expect anyone to 
bomb police stations (yet* or storm buildings; 
we re asking you to come out to the program "Pitts­
burgh Kangaroos vs. Washington Conspiracy" Sat­
urday afternoon and then join us at the Federal 
Building after the mock trial. When Abbie Hoffman 
was heie in January. 2.000 people turned out to 
hear him. and gave him a standing ovation; so we 
should have at least 2.000 people marching around 
the Federal Building to show their support for him.
If you can only make it to one of the functions, 
it s much more important that you come to the Fed­
eral Building. All over the country people will be 
marching to show Tricky Dicky that he s pushed us 
around long enough—let's show him that Pittsburgh 
is still as angry as it was last fall. Four thirty Sat- 
urdav afternoon. Feb. 21.
campus-wide code of discipline, we must now act to define 
a judicial process applicable only to students. Students 
must define for themslves a procedure insuring due pro­
cess. personal rights and privileges, and trial before a 
peer group jury. To this end I propose student court of five 
justices with an independent, impartial moderator—an 
appeals court—presently the Executive Council of Stu­
dent Government—and final jurisdiction at the level of 
the president of the university or his authorized official. 
Appeals would be available for either prosecution or de­
fense. The Executive Council would be relieved of its pre­
sent duty of confirming presidential action on legislation. 
The defendent will have the option of open or closed hear­
ings. Academic violations will be specifically excluded 
from the jurisdiction of the court.
Now that we realize that we must separate the devel­
opment of a judicial procedure from the establishment of 
a campus code, our task is simpler, the process of approv­
al and ratification being concentrated within the student 
population.
I therefore urge the student representatives to the 
Conference Committee on Campus Code to submit to the 
Student Senate—within a week—a proposal for a new judi­
cial system based on the outline just mentioned. We must 
hope that a final draft will be ready to be voted on by the 
entire student body during the March 11 and 12 election.
We have delayed, discussed and debated long enough. 
The time to act is now!
Cooperative Library Program 
At Seven Pittsburgh Colleges
The Board of Trustees of the Pittsburgh Regional Library Center 
has announced the adoption of an expanded policy of cross-utilization 
of library facilities designed to provide greater services to the students 
and faculties of seven Pittsburgh colleges and universities.
The participating institutions are Carlow College, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Chatham College. Duquesne University, Point Park Col­
lege. Robert Morris College, and the University of Pittsburgh.
Under the new policy the libraries of all participating institutions 
are available to students and faculties of all seven colleges and univer­
sities and borrowing privileges are extended to all faculties and grad­
uate students. Undergraduates may recieve borrowing privileges by 
following the regulations of the individual libraries.
The Pittsburgh Regional Library Center office is located on the 
Chatham College campus. The Center is directed by Francis Ziaukas. 
Dr. Carl Trendler of Chatham College is president of the Center.

---------------------------------------------------

Pog« 4—THE TARTAN—Friday, February 20, 1970
IdiYs vdi laLn md Unzdpn A ;aragenOD
JF-HfKmHJf ag Eae4die wingeadr Nrs CdO YaCn0 lTBKl ar NYY 
RS geNeng Nrs pdge CdOna’r zdireOang0 AnOCdOp Yn’NY pNOW
OaN’ng. dOsarNeadrg. Nrs CirnONYg0 Fnzna?n sagzdireg dr gdpn 
CNOng0 J?nO M/R.SSS paragenOg 4N?n NYOnNs3 :nnr dOsNarns0 
;aragenOg zOnsnreaNYg Nrs Yaznrgn gnre9 Nr dOsNarpnre znOeaCaW
zNen CdO CONpar’ Nrs Nr H- zNOs CdO 3diO :aYYCdYs0 In rnns 
3diO 4nYx ed zd?nO pNaYar’. 4NrsYar’. Nrs NsparageONeadr 
zdgeg0 vdiO ’nrnOdig zdreOa:ieadr ag NxxOnzaNens0
TfhlJ1T K PFTT IHll JPPTFHfB 
Write to: UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 8071 
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA 33314
Engineers:
Gdar e4n sa?nOgaCans EdOYs 
dC ;NOear ;NOaneeN
Nrs 4nYx zOnNen edpdOOdEkg 
enz4rdYd’3 ar7 ;aggaYn 13genpg. lNirz4 8n4azYng. 1xNzn TtxYdONeadr.Ks?Nrzns TYnzeOdrazg Nrs hdppirazNeadrg 13genpg0
InkOn YddLar’ CdO wiNYaCans KnOdrNieazNY. TYnzeOazNY. 
TYnzeOdraz. ;nz4NrazNY Nrs ha?aY Tr’arnnOg0 In dCCnO 
e4np snnx Nrs OnENOsar’ ar?dY?npnre ar ga’raCazNre. 
Ydr’—enOp FngnNOz4. -n?nYdxpnre. -nga’r. mnge. T?NYW
iNeadr. Nrs AOdsizeadr xOd’ONpg ar e4n CanYsg Yagens 
N:d?n0
In 4N?n pNXdO CNzaYaeang ar UNYeapdOn. ;NO3YNrs9 -nrW
?nO. hdYdONsd9 JOYNrsd. PYdOasN9 I4nnYar’. HYYardag9 Nrs 
CanYs dxnONeadrg Ne hNxn !nrrns3 Nrs 8Nrsnr:nO’ 
KPU0 TNz4 YdzNeadr dCCnOg dxxdOeiraeang CdO zdreariar’ 
nsizNeadr Eae4 CarNrzaNY gixxdOe0
Representative on campus
Mon. & Tues. Feb. 23,24
PdO arenO?anE. zdreNze xYNznpnre dCCazn0 HC irN:Yn ed 
gz4nsiYn arenO?anE. xYnNgn gnrs Ongipn ed7
Director, College Relations 
Aerospace Group Dept. 115 
Martin Marietta Corporation 
Friendship International Airport 
Maryland 21240
AM#7T//ir ilf/IOpennL
An Equal Opportunity Employer—Male or Female
CMU Experimental Theatre Group 
Forms To Produce Original Plays
by experimental theatre group, to be known as 
the Student Sponsored Theatre, has been formed to 
produce original plays written, directed, acted and 
designed by Carnegie-Mellon students. The SST. or­
ganized by four graduate students in the Drama De­
partment, is to be an extra-curricular activity open 
to the entire C-MU student body.
The SST's first production, scheduled for per­
formances in the studio theatre on March 18. will 
be The Love Story of Amos and Mary Sue, a satiric 
farce written by Mark Nielson and directed by Rich­
ard Felnagle, both graduate students in drams. Au­
ditions will be held on Wednesday, Feb. 25, at 5 p.m. 
in the sculpture room in Fine Arts and are open to 
all C-MU students. Those interested in acting, tech­
nical production, and scene design are encouraged 
to attend.
Scripts for this and prospective future produc­
tions are on reserve on the fourth floor of Hunt Li­
brary and are available for reading by actors and di­
rectors before try-outs are held. Students who^ 
who have written finished plays are invited to place 
them on reserve for possible production later this 
semester or in the fall.
Notices concerning this and future productions 
will be posted on the bulletin board outside the Dra­
ma Department office in the Fine Arts Building. 
Students who would like to work with the SST in any 
capacity should leave a note for the SST Coordinat­
ing Committee on the bulletin board.
MuraSi nge Jo Dcck
'f
Campus Republicans will hold 
an organizational meeting on 
Monday. Feb. 23, at 8:30 p.m. at 
the home of Prof. Carl Meltzer of 
the C-MU Department of Physics. 
Mrs. Elsie Hillman, chairman 
of the Allegheny County Republi­
can Executive Committee, will 
speak briefly and answer ques­
tions.
Officers will be elected to serve 
for the remainder of the semes­
ter. a constitution will be present­
ed for inspection and vote, and 
committees will be formed to 
handle programming for the se­
mester.
The meeting will be brief and 
refreshments will be served. Prof.
Services for Student Travelers
uAcivAmcWoAmp IcCDiAc uDiAcWca FmvDl mAD m yvomD vmA'i 
oP ocbiv livhWFil co aoCA' TEivWFmAl -bo -Wpp lcCDa ov 
cvmhip WA eCvofi WA BMgN mvi mhmWpmypi PvoE cbi SoCAFWp oA 
uAcivAmcWoAmp eDCFmcWoA ewFbmA'in
sbi uk FmvD iAcWcpil cbi bopDiv co DWlFoCAcl mAD lcCDiAc 
viDCFcWoAl mc loEi cbimcvilL FoAFivc bmpplL lbofl mAD Eolc 
ECliCEl WA eCvofin
sbi FmvD Em:il bWE ipW'Wypi Pov cbi EoAiaOlmhWA' liv!
hWFil fvohWDiD ya cbi AmcWoAmp lcCDiAc cvmhip yCvimCl WA 
hmvWoCl eCvofimA FoCAcvWiln sbili livhWFil WAFpCDi WAcvmO 
eCvofimA Fbmvciv PpW'bclL lcCDiAc cvmWAl mAD yClilL po-OFolc 
coCvl mAD bopWDma FiAcivlL mFFoEEoDmcWoAl WA lcCDiAc bol!
cipl mAD Eimpl WA lcCDiAc vilcmCvmAcln
IcCDiAcl -Wpp mplo yi mypi co yoo: fmllm'i cbvoC'b 
Scee oA WAcvmOeCvofimA Fbmvciv PpW'bclL lmhWA' ml ECFb ml 
c-oOcbWvDl oP cbi vi'Cpmv Pmvi oA loEi voCciln
sbi uk FmvDl mvi hmpWD Pov oAi aimvL yi'WAAWA' oA cbi 
PWvlc Dma oP cbi FmpiADov aimvL mAD mvi viAi-mypin
qocb cbi uAcivAmcWoAmp IcCDiAc uDiAcWca FmvD —Pov Foppi'i 
CADiv'vmDCmcil mAD 'vmDCmci lcCDiAclY mAD cbi uAcivAmcWoO 
Amp IFbopmv uDiAcWca FmvD —Pov bW'b lFboop mAD ocbiv AoA!
CAWhivlWca lcCDiAcl mvi Pov lopi ya Suee Pov VBn
KxxYazNreg pige gi:pae xOddC dC C iYY—eapn geisnre 
geNeig Nrs eEd xNggxdOe dO NiedpNe x4dedg0
,ov DicmWpiD WAPovEmcWoA mAD mffpWFmcWoAlL -vWci cbi 
SoCAFWp oA uAcivAmcWoAmp eDCFmcWoAmp ewFbmA'iL ggg HAWciD 
dmcWoAl RpmKmL di- “ov:L dn “n BNNBgn
tqr Enrgrst Srlrction of 
Importrd nnd Domrstic 
tobnccos A Piprs in tqr City
BRIAR BOWL
3735 Forfam St. MI-6043
wuktoyuhh, bpscdkticp etauf
COMPUTERIZED DATING
For free brochure on Computerized 
Dating. Only for the most discrimin­
ating. Write: DATAMATIC, P.O. Box 
7421, Oakland Station, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15213.
FAST, PROFESSIONAL TYP­
ING for Students' Reports, 
Theses, Etc. Very Reasonable 
Rates. Call 441-6460.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR THE 1970 SEASON
CAMP CHIQUETAN
A Non-Sectarian and Interracial 
Private Boys’ Camp in Lancaster County, Pa. 
K-;HfH1mFKmH8T — ;T-HhKl — PJJ- 1TF8HhT — AFJBFK; 
1xnzaNYageg Nrs BnrnONY hdirgnYdOg 
See Your Placement Office For More Information Or 
Writ*: CAMP CHIQUETAN, INC., 1018 E. Mt. Airy Av*., Philo., Pp. 1*150 
PHONE: (215) CH-S4514
| ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOPPE
Over 10 Million Hot Dogs Sold
WITH THIS COUPON 
between the hours of 3 p.m. and 3 a.m.
THREE HOT DOGS FOR $1.00 ... OR 
THREE STEAK BURGERS FOR $1.00! 
OR . . . FIVE LARGE DRINKS FOR $1.00! 
YOUR CHOICE
\ hJUAJf 8KlH- UfmHl ;KFh2 4e4
* OPEN 24 HOURS 3901 FORBES AVE.
Meltzer s address is 1094 Devon 
Road; all are welcome to attend.
Poems Sought
Award Books is now seeking 
original short stories, poems, 
plavs and essays for an anthology 
tentatively named New Black 
Writings. Contributors may sub­
mit any material that has not been 
published previously. In addition 
works which have been published 
in limited circulation publications 
such as literary or scholarly jour­
nals are eligible for inclusion in 
this anthology.
All contributions should be sub­
mitted no later than June 1.1970.
a future 
for the 
Vietnamese?
HEAR VOICES FROM 
THE THIRD VIETNAM 
CAO NGOC PHUONG
AOdCnggdO dC UadYd’39 dO’Nr!— 
znO dC e4n Uis4age 1eisnre 
UrsnO’Odirs AnNzn ;d?nW
pnre9 Nie4dO dC 
VOICE FROM THE 
BURNING HOUSE
ALFRED HASSLER
1nzOneNO3 dC PnYYdEg4ax 
dC FnzdrzaYaNeadr9 Nie4dO 
SAIGON-U.S.A. (1970)
PROGRAM
eNYL9 8anerNpngn xnNzn 
gdr’g gir’ :3 ;agg A4idr’9 
sagziggadr Eae4 Nisanrzn
SPONSORS
Aaeeg:iO’4 AnNzn hdNYaeadr 
Aaeeg:iO’4 POanrsg ;nnear’ 
PnYYdEg4ax dC FnzdrzaYaNeadr 
Aaee 1eisnre Bd?nOrpnre 
hNpxig ;arageO3. U0K0h0;0 
Aaeeg:iO’4 FngageNrzn 
h—;U JCCazn dC 
hdppirae3 NCCNaOg 
UraeNOaNr h4iOz4 
AnNzn Nrs POnnsdp hnrenO 
,—uu -npdzONeaz hYi: 
u4e4 -npdzONeaz hYi:
SUNDAY, FEB. 22 
2:00 P.M.
U.A.C.M.
5th and Bellefield
PUBLIC MEETING

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, February 20, 1970—THE TARTAN—Pag« 5
U.S. Racial Integration Impossible
by William Russell Robinson
For the purpose of discussion let me set this argu­
ment.
My argument moves on three propositions, which I 
shall set out in turn.
The first is that our major cities, already black, will 
become predominantly black in less than a generation.
Phillip Hauser's summary in the Fall, 1965, issue of 
Daedalus tells the story:
“Thus between 1910 and 1960 the Negro has been re­
distributed . . . from rural ... to urban and metropolitan 
areas, but within the urban and metropolitan complexes 
(he) has become and remained much more highly segre­
gated than was true of white immigrants who flocked 
there before (him >."
Mechanization of Southern farms is pushing Afro- 
Americans off the land. Starvation is being systematical­
ly employed by Southern whites as a method of chasing 
labor that is no longer needed—and they become welfare 
burdens.
According to Frances Piven and Richard Cloward in 
the New Republic, blacks will be bilked of political control 
of the great cities by the rise of metropolitanism—by the 
entrance of the super-governments they see inevitably 
consolidating the chief functions and powers of megalo­
polis.
"Metropolitan government." Piven and Cloward say,
• will help to avert impending black control of the cities by- 
usurping many powers of the city.”
The white middle-class view, compounded of self- 
righteousness and paternalism, leads naturally enough to
the unbreakable habit of talking about "them** and "us.“ 
Thus white glide smoothly to the conclusion that "we" will 
somehow rule "them*’ even when the cities, at least in 
terms of sheer population, become theirs.
This bring me to a second proposition which is the 
key to my understanding of the situation. I offer it tenta­
tively even though I am convinced it is valid. If it is, it 
makes all of our present difficulties trifling and we have 
before us a problem in statecraft whose dimensions can­
not now be imagined.
The proposition is that racial integration in the Unit 
ed States is impossible.
My proposition, in short, smashes the liberal dream. 
It eliminates the democratic optimism claim that we are 
finding our way to a harmonious blending of the races. It 
changes the words of the marching song to "We Shall Not 
Overcome,” for what was eventually to be overcome was 
hostility and non-fraternity between black and whites. My 
proposition dynamites the foundations of the NAACP, the 
Urban League, and similar organizations. It asserts that 
Euro-Americans, Afro-Americans and other non-whites, 
for all practical purposes and with unimportant excep­
tions, will remain separate social communities for as long 
as one can see ahead. I am not sure, but it may also mean 
that blacktown will become a separate political commun­
ity.
Priorities tell the story. In the last seven years we 
have spent $384 billion on war, $27 billion on space, and 
less than $2 billion on community development and hous­
ing.
A certain fragile chummines has spring up, notably 
along the margins of blacktown and whitetown. between
the friendly and open-hearted and well-educated on both 
sides. But this involves a few thousands—not millions— 
of people, is far from equality and fraternity, and is no 
evidence of any important social change.
Yet, money is not the problem; whitetown's attitude 
is the problem.
Sprinter Tommie Smith says: "On the track you’re 
Tommie Smith, the fastest man in the world, but off it 
you are just another nigger."
Election results show consistently that at least 60 to 
75 per cent of American voters will endorse any proposi­
tion that is clearly anti-Afro-American.
My third and final proposition is this: The United 
States has at best a few years of grace to think through a 
political theory that will at once maintain democratic 
practice and institutions and provide for an ethnically 
sparated minority community.
Plato and Aristotle dealt with the issue of a separ­
ated group—the slaves—bv ignoring them in their consti­
tutions.
There is little doubt that blacktown could be kept in a 
state of perpetual subjugation by the superior numbers 
and arms of whitetown. The theory we are seeking is not 
a plan of battle but a plan for peaceful coexistence.
While we are struggling toward the forms of official 
black self-development, probings in blacktown toward 
indigenous structures must be regarded sympathetically 
be whites—from a respectful distance.
The essence is black striving toward selfhood, inde­
pendence—and dignity. Can we say farewell to integra­
tion? A else examination of my propositions might shed 
some light on this perplexing problem.
.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIimillllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIMIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIMiiHllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
ELECTIONS
MARCH 11-12
MAJOR OFFICES:
President of Student Government 
Director of Academic Affairs Board 
Director of Activities Board
Independent Male Commute Rep. to Executive Council 
Graduate Rep. to Executive Council
STUDENT SENATE SEATS:
Dormitory ....................—5
AWS .........................-7
Fraternity......................—4
Male Commuter..........—5
Graduate ....................—12
COLLEGE COUNCIL SEATS:
MMCC/H + SS ............-3
CIT..................................-2
Petitions Are Available in Skibo 103 
They Must Be Returned by 4:30 p.m. on Feb. 24
fJmT7 AazeiOng Nrs geNenpnreg dC rde pdOn e4Nr RS EdOsg EaYY :n Onwingens COdp 
e4n zNrsasNeng CdO 1eisnre 1nrNen Nrs hdYYn’n hdirzaY 1nNeg0 AazeiOng Nrs geNenW
pnreg COdp pNXdO zNrsasNeng EaYY :n NOONr’ns arsa?asiNYY30 HC N zNrsasNen 
Eag4ng. 4n pN3 NOONr’n ed :n x4ded’ONx4ns :3 e4n mNOeNr 1eNCC0
Between Classes or at Study Break
-SCOTTY'S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOVRS A DAY
3913 FORBES AVENUE
. . . nnd . . .
ROUTE •, NORTH OF ETNA 79U PENN AVENUE
'"uiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii................................................................................................................................................miFRIDAY, FEB. 27 at 8:30 P.M.
in SKIBO BALLROOM 
Presented by the ACTIVITIES BOARD

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN—Friday, February 20, 1970
More To Skibo Food Than You Think
Recent inquiries into the real 
causes of the food poisoning at 
Skibo have led some students to 
look beyond bacteria s the cul­
prits.
This year was the first year that 
the kitchen wasn't cleaned over 
Christmas vacation. Normally the 
kitchen employees spent as much 
of their vacation working to clean 
the kitchen as their particular fi­
nancial needs dictated. Some 
workers really depended on this 
income to support themselves and 
frequently their families over the 
Christmas holidays—a time when 
expenses are greater than normal. 
Of all times to cut off a person s 
income the Christmas holidays 
are perhaps the worst. Neverthe­
less the university administra­
tion chose just that time to lay off 
its food service employees. But 
really can university administra­
tors who spend $18 million on a 
a new computer building not af­
ford a clean kitchen? Surely, any 
of our co-sufferers in the recent 
food poisoning episode, or for that 
matter anyone who eats at Skibo. 
would agree on the necessity of 
having a clean kitchen.
The workers who were affected 
by this lay-off. and who would have 
normally spent a good part of the
vacation earning money neces­
sary for their support by cleaning 
the kitchen, did not take this lying 
down. In fact they were furious. 
Their resentment came not only 
from being laid-off but from other 
incidents as well.
First, until approximately one 
week before vacation began, the 
university had been telling the 
workers that they would be allow­
ed to work during the vacation. 
The number of personnel who 
were kept on for executing tasks 
considered more vital than clean­
ing the kitchen was far too small 
to handle the job they were re­
quired to do. Finally, although 
“seniority" was said to exist, it 
had no bearing on who was chos­
en to work. (Seniority, or length 
of employment, is generally used 
as a basis for preferential ad­
vancement. wage increases, and 
job security, i
These incidents together with 
the irritation of being unemploy­
ed so incensed the workers that 
the university boss administra­
tion though it necessary to pacify 
them.
What the university did was to 
advance each worker, without 
choice, a one week advance on his 
three-week summer vacation pay.
In effect this had no real benefit 
for the employees. All that had 
happened was that in addition to 
not working over Christmas they 
were also to be deprived of a 
week's income this summer. The 
catch was that the university 
boss administration hoped that 
this shift of income would take the 
fight out of the workers by mak­
ing it look as though they had won 
something. But the workers saw 
through this feeble attempt at 
pacification, causing the trick to 
fail. Though the workers saw 
through one trick, they were in no 
position to press for any real com­
pensations.
Naturally this caused a new 
wave of resentment. Perceiving 
that discontment still ran rampant 
in the kitchen, the university again 
tried to pacify the employees by 
giving them a token raise that in 
no way compensated them for the 
income lost by being laid off dur­
ing the Christmas holidays. Aside 
from the financial damage to the 
workers, it is quite possible that 
cleaning the kitchen over the va­
cation might have prevented the 
food poisoning or at least might 
have alleviated the causes lead­
ing to it. Additional possible rea­
sons for food poisoning are 1» 
Inadequate staff for stocking food
• ••• ••••• •• • • •• • • •• • • • • •
• •• •••••
m DWlcWA'CWlbiD 'voCf oP 
3 DIFFERENT PROGRAMS 
OF CREATIVE CINEMA
TA uAcivAmcWoAmp IivWil 
oP .j Ibovc ,WpEl
The works of leading film makers from 
9 countries including prize winners 
from European film festivals. Films 
range from the experimental to docu­
mentary, from pop to abstract and 
kinetic, from animated to dramatic...
byMuraSSyu in rgieJo SDckJwtteh ,DJptpySysar in dDf ­UtvDJwlh uUmD•et"pC-.as­C SyCTu 
rSS WrBy S-by a. S-.'-. in ,eoeJ NOwoeOeDmh Skfmkfp,­y.-Wy.r in dkJmDf xegtkfh 
uDf FranciscopSr baCrHSw"e wf D Cwf in xJUfk xkvveookh MilanpWaMr&Sy in atoqDf befowggDh 
Budapestp,rMau Wra EPIA ,JkmU$em in oOe 8wgc &kk•eJDowqe k" ,DJwt4 rfkfnckUtpCN- 
sMaSSy' 8au­ in 0kjw BUJwh Tokyo/LA ,-WWy in &ODJget WDookfh ParispC­y SruC CMa&B 
-8 WM4 y'srM in dDf uqDflcDjeJh ,JD*Uepsrb-CCy in NDgeJwDf xkJk>$vnlh ParispN­rC 
'- 0-1 C­a.B2 in 0kjw BUJwh Ck"JnkpWrMay yC Sy &1My in 'wkUJlD Wemqe$vlnh Paris/ 
urWr'­a in dkJmDf xegtkfh San Francisco444 r.' Wr.0 -C­yMu4
From the Preview:
“Anyone interested in the possibilities of movies should not miss the show. The Kinetic Art 
represents... the most interesting things being done ... things that cannot be duplicated in 
any other art form.”
Vincent Canby, THE NEW YORK TIMES
“...a three-day minifestival... from innovative film makers around the world ... a brilliant 
assemblage of short creative films.”
Louise Sweeney, THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR
“The show was extraordinary... delightful, exhilarating, deeply moving. Congratulations, 
gratitudes, huzzas, three cheers and a tiger."
Benjamin Forgey, THE SUNDAY STAR, Washington, D.C.
PROGRAM ONE - Wherrett Room
Friday, February 20 — 7:30 and 10:00 
Saturday, February 21 — 2, 4:30, 7:30 and 10
Tickets-$1.00 at Skibo 
Sponsored by The Activities Board
after it s delivered, and 2i Inade­
quate staff for preparing food. 
After the food poisoning incident 
Tuesday evening Skibo was closed 
for five days, during the first two 
of which it was cleaned. Subse­
quently all employees were laid- 
off. without compensation, for the 
next three days.
In addition, some employees 
lost further wages because they 
were *'contaminated'" from eat­
ing the food and were, of course, 
not allowed to work. Thus we have 
the following situation: workers 
who were already in bad financial 
straits as a result of missing ex­
pected Christmas vacation em­
ployment, were again deprived of 
one of three days income through 
no fault of their own. After all it 
was the university, not the work­
ers. who risked the health of both 
students and employees in an ef­
fort to reduce operating costs.
This particular incident makes 
very clear that the university is 
not the liberal institution dedi­
cated to the service of mankind 
that manv have been led to believe
it is. In fact, it is quite apparent 
from this as well as other inci­
dents that the university exploits 
and oppresses its workers in the 
same wav as any other large cor­
poration.
For this reason we support the 
following demands:
11 All food service employees 
get the week of summer pay that 
was ‘'given'- to them over Christ­
mas.
2) All employees should be paid 
for the time the dining facilities 
were closed due to food poisoning.
3) All employees should be com­
pensated for the time lost during 
the contamination pecod.
Anyone who has more infor­
mation on the above incident cited 
or anyone who has questions con­
cerning the incident, please call 
the following numbers:
Bill Sabor, 621-5037, Carnegie-
Mellon SDS;
Hans Weltin. 621-3467, Carnegie-
Mellon SDS.
Fight Agoinst Pollution
Richard Boardman, director of 
Water Quality, Pennsylvania De­
partment of Health, will speak on 
“The Fight Against Water Pollu­
tion—Its Status in Pennsylvania” 
at a general membership meeting 
of the League of Women Voters of 
the Pittsburgh Area. The meeting 
will be held on Thursday, Feb. 26, 
at 8 p.m. in room 135. Coolidge 
Hall, Chatham College.
Mr. Boardman has vast know­
ledge and information on this top­
ic, and hopefully will be able to 
shed some light on any legislation 
concerning it.
This is an excellent opportunity 
for the public to hear as well as 
be heard on this verv vital issue.
ENVIROMENTAL 
TEACH-IN 
APRIL 2
m4n POasN3 PaYp 1nOang
presents
Lady Windemeres Fan
Directed by Ernst Lubitsch 
Based on the play by Oscar Wilde
Friday, Feb. 20
AJFmTF 2Kll uSS 
,7cS Nrs uS7SS 
$.25 Y Members; $.75 Others
How To Get A 
Doctor Of Divinity Degree
Doctor of Divinity degrees are issued 
by Universal Life Church, along with 
a 10-lesson course in the procedure 
of setting up and operating a non­
profit organization. For a free will 
offering of $20 we will send you, 
immediately, all 10 lessons in one 
package along with the D.D. certifi­
cate.
UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 6575 
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021
How To Get A 
Doctor Of Divinity Degree
Doctor of Divinity degrees are issued 
by Universal Life Church, along with 
a 1 Wesson course in the procedure 
of setting up and operating a non­
profit organization. For a free will 
offering qf $20 we will send you, 
immediately, all 10 lessons in one 
package along with the D.D. certifi­
cate.
UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 6575 
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021
682-3731121 University Place
({\ \AA. i Basement of the Physicians Building
OPEN: Monday-Friday, 9:00-5:00
Xerox Copies 5t/2t
^ TERM PAPERS 
y/ THESES
XEROX
(Department Charge Accounts 
and Research Grants WELCOME)
COPIES DO MAKE A DIFFERENCE!

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, February 20, 1970—THE TARTAN—Page 7
wThey Shoot Horses, Don't They?'': A Review
(CPS'—On and on the music blares across the dance 
floor and out through the door to be lost somewhere be­
tween the piei and the relentless waves that wash up on 
the shore. Inside, a scoreboard keeps simultaneous track 
of the hours, days, weeks, and how many couples still re­
main in the World Championship Marathon Dance Contest, 
which is the setting for Irwin Walkers production of Hor­
ace McCoy's 1930 s existentialist novel The Shoot Horses, 
Don’t They?
Horses is all about life, real life, in all of its harsh 
lealism. with all of its fantasy cut out. The energetic 
group of dancers who line up to sign up for the marathon 
dance are hopeful of finding some reason for continuing in 
the misery that is existence during the Great Depression. 
As they tack numbers on their backs and move to the cen­
ter of the floor, they begin the relentless dance which 
winds its way through what remains of their lives—brings 
them together—and throws them apart. People come look­
ing for hope, but find only the continuing dead sway of 
bodies guided by the heartless god that is the clock, that 
is all that matters: the clock. Not even the people who 
gather on the sidelines to watch and "pick favorites” and 
cheer are important. They're just trying to forget their 
own lot.
Gloria (Jane Fonda * is at the center of this human 
madness. The marathon dance is her last stop. She's been 
everywhere else and always comes up with a zero. She 
would rather be a cow. ". . . at least they get fed ..." It 
doesn't take long for Gloria to realize that being a cow is 
really not so impossible—she's in the marathon and it will 
feed her. and shelter her as long as she can keep dancing. 
But then what?
Her partner in the dance. Robert (Michael Sarrazim 
has had it rough too. But he is still an idealist. He can still 
appreciate the warmth of the sun he hasn't seen in weeks 
as it shines through the sky light on to the dance floor. 
At once his innocence is mocked by Gloria, and then 
sought. Through it all. Robert is Gloria's only friend, and 
vice versa. ... For whatever that is worth in this life.
Hope, real hope is least, is not part of life as Gloria 
and Robert move through weeks of "continuous motion. 
From the bandstand. Rocky (Gig Young> the marathon 
mentor, keeps the dancers moving with a continuous 
stream of babble. Rocky is the thread that keeps them all 
together, the people on the sidelines, who come to be lost 
in someone else’s misery, and the dancers, who have prob­
ably moved from the stands out on to the dance floor to 
give life one more chance.
One last chance to live, or as Rocky tflls it. "You 
don't need to be number one as you amble down life's high­
way—but don't be last"; that means you lose—you're out.
One hundred and forty-three couples came to the 
marathon for one last chance. But in the end. we know that 
no one ever wins, even the prize is a shattered dream.
For the Sailor (Red Buttons), the dance is really a 
final test of his youth. He is old and obviously lost without 
"someplace to belong to " . . . like the fleet that has long 
since left without him. But it all catches up to him, no 
hope left, not even misery . .. nothing.
And there is Alice (Susannah York), the proxide Har­
low who can't seem to make it into movies on her own. She 
comes to the dance hoping to be seen by some of the "Hol­
lywood crowd." But Alice is doomed from the beginning; 
partly because she really has no talent, and partly be­
cause the "Hollywood crowd" doesn't come to the dance 
to look for talent . . . only to forget. The disappearance of 
her only other dress, "a pink satin." and the chemicals 
for her hair only spells it out for us in unmistakeable 
terms . .. she will have to die a little like all the others be­
fore the dance is over.
It's all a jumble of broken bbdies and broken dreams 
tied to the hope for a little money and maybe a little fame. 
Through it all, it is Gloria who must be convinced that 
there really is no hope. She has tried everything else and 
now it is the dance. She keeps pressing people with her 
manner seeking to find something more substantial than a 
few bucks, new shoes and a sweatshirt from her sponsor;
she wants something that will last. It's finally Rocky who 
sets her straight on how ihreally is. "They want to see a 
little misery so that they can feel a little better; they de­
serve that. ... It's all for the good of the show, and that s 
what we re all interested in isn't it. . . the show?"
At a time in the motion picture business when hand 
held cameras and unknown actors are making all of the 
money with "avant garde" scripts. Horse comes along to 
prove that there is still some hope for the establishment 
film makers. From beginning to end. the picture is bril­
liant. No acting job outrates any other. Each is excellent 
in its portrayal of the times, and more deeply, in its han­
dling of the theme.
Director Sydney Pollack fills the screen with care­
fully planned action, mixed with emotion and agony. It 
is no accident that marathon dancing loses its glamor as 
the audience moves through the picture developing a very 
strong attachment with every character and every situa­
tion. We are sickened at points and continuously distress­
ed by what we see.
They Shoot Horses Don’t They? is as complete a story 
as I have seen on the screen in many years. It s all set 
before you to look at, experience, and examine. The pic­
ture’s greatest strength is doubtlessly its closely inte­
grated story and execution. Horse is a lesson I won't 
forget.
!HfTmHh KFm
ag
hJ;HfB!
METACURRICULAR 
FILM SERIES
“TtagenreaNYagp ar PaYp”
­ik Uthr ov klc mcdtci
“UnCdOn e4n Fn?dYieadr”
:3 U0 UnOedYizza
Tuesday, Feb. 24 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
11 a.m., 4:00 p.m.
-agziggadr CdYYdEar’ e4n 
pd?an0 hdOneeN BOnnrW
CanYs. pdsnONedO0
PTU0 MM. ,7SS x0p0 h4NxnY
m2T ;TKfHfB JP ;J-TFf ;KFFHKBT
A dialogue with Margaret Mead, 
Curator and Ethnology, American 
Museum of Natural History and 
James M. Gustafson, Professor of 
Christian Ethics, Yale University.
Pn:0 MR. uu7SS N p0 h4NxnY
GT11T UfFU2
h4Ne4Np 8agaedO
Member of the California Legislature 
and former Speaker of the House.
Pn:0 M,—M8 Nrs ;NO0 u—R—/—, 
87uR x0p0 -ONpN Fddpm2T KPPKHF1 JP KfKmJl
h4Ne4Np hdYYn’n -nxNOeW
pnre dC -ONpN0
KYY AOd’ONpg KOn PFTT 
Nrs Jxnr ed e4n Ai:Yaz0
Important 
Buggy Meeting
Tues. Feb. 24 - 10:00
AYNzn7
UTmK m2TmK AH
2nNeg Nrs lNrng 
IaYY Un h4dgnr
AU Buggy Chairmen 
BE THERE!
Reward S10
la’4e :Yin 4nNe4nO EddY Lrae 
1zNOC0 ldge h—;U0 BOnNe gnrW
eapnreNY ?NYin0
hNYY /8,—Ry/y
UKUv1HmmTF IKfmT- CdO 
gn?nONY mingsN3 dO m4iOgsN3 
n?nrar’g xnO pdre4. ,—uM0 
$u0SS xnO 4diO0 hNYY /8c— 
y/,R0
2J;TIJF!TF1 IKfmT-
Envelope addressers; send Self Ad­
dressed, Stamped Envelope. OVER­
SEAS JOBS; HIGH PAY, List of Com­
panies Hiring; $1.00. The Elliot Co., 
748 Washington Ave. Miami Beach, 
Florida 33139.
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
We Rent and Repair Typewriters %¦ m\y,
STUerT eGS­TdGe
Student Discount on Most Items 
c,uu PJFUT1 K8TfUT A4drd7 /8c—Mu8u
Kh1 AOdisY3 AOngnreg7b
DR. JACK DAY, Head, CMU Civ. Eng. 
Dept., speaking on: "Water for 1980 
—Public Pain & Pleasure" on Feb. 24, 
1970 at 7:30 p.m. in DH 2210. First 
of a series on Environment and the 
Future.
8:00 p.m. • 12 p.m. 
except Monday
_ t*’1
V*1 709 Bel let on te Street
Shedyside
fTIvJF! mJ lJf-Jf 
1U;;TF 8KhKmHJf mFHA1 
Fdirs mOax b $u/y
Now Filling — Small Deposit and 
Payments — Send for Free Details 
Student Globe Reamers 
Box *473, Hollywood. Fla. 33021
1:
•scd "cudp b • . . GREEK SING?
gd mccy bCCC GREEK SWING?
-uyk ko .c audk ov klc Tlohc iWcycB
Let G.S. 70 Happen For You On
$100 Reward — for return of gold and sil­
ver samples removed from desk in Carnegie- 
Mellon University. No questions asked. These 
samples are essential for the completion of 
my research project. Contact me by mail or 
telephone to arrange delivery. Tom Davis, 
683-3960; Physics Department, Carnegie-Mel- 
lon University, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. If no answer call 882-2693.
Friday, March 6 Greek Sing Concert
-lcyB 8:30 p.m. 
0 -lcdcB CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
MoikB It’s free, baby!
Saturday, March 7 Date Dinner," Orpheus” In Concert, 
Dance ti?~ "Ravin Blues,” Awards.
-lcyB 6:30 p.m.
# -lcdcB WILLIAM PENN HOTEL (downtown)
MoikB $10.00/couple (oh,wow . . .) 
JtW'cki usuthu.hc ko klc eS.htW Uc.. NOkl @ m't.o ­xH
(The two nights make a beautiful set000 don’t split 'em)
—Rty, GS ’70

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN—Friday, February 20, 1970
Peace Corps recruiters will be on campus March 2 and 3 to dis­
seminate information and answer the questions of any interested stu­
dents.
A student must be at least 18 to quality. A degree is almost man­
datory. unless you have a special skill, such as carpentry. There is no 
longer a required language ability test.
The push this year is for more technically qualified people, some­
one having a degree in agriculture, education, or engineering. Techni­
cal skills are desperately needed in the under-developed countries seek­
ing Peace Corps aid.
Other skills, such as mechanics or repairmen, are in short supply, 
also.
However, no interested person 
will be turned away because he 
doesn t fall in those categories.
AnNzn hdOxg
End for 11-S?
PCV John D. Sutherland, Port Clinton, Ohio, teaches math at Gaberones Secondary School, where he also 
works with a Scout troop and helps to run the physical education program.
Jim Feaster. one of the recruit­
ers. said that the base for the 
Peace Corps push this year is to 
"sell experience."
Jim just returned from Para­
guay where he worked with sav­
ings and loan cooperatives that 
guaranteed a saver automatic loan 
credit.
No specific room for the inter­
views has been assigned yet. but 
further information'is available 
at the Placement Office, giving 
times and place.
Advice Offered By Gainsley
This is the first in a new series by Mrs. Beatrice Gainsley, advice col­
umnist. She has been favorably compared to Dr. Sarah Brownfield and 
Ann Landers, because of her unique style and ponderous intellect. The 
readers of the Tartan are welcome to send in their porblems and personal 
notes to: Mrs. Beatrice Gainsley, Skibo Information Desk, Campus Mail.
SOMETHING PERSONAL
by Beatrice Gainsley
Dear Beatrice.
I am planning to travel to Europe this summer, and I am beset by 
two problems: first, should I ignore tourist-y spots even though they 
may be economical, and second, how can I meet a king?
Puzzled
Dear Puzzled? &
Remember, only the unenlightened think that one country is better 
than another. However, if you do decide to go. see everything you can. 
The best passport to polite society is money.
To whomever finds a woman's small yellow purse—I need the pres­
cription for my Norinyl despai ately. Return to Skibo Information Desk.
Dear Beatrice.
A female professor of mine is inclined to wear youthful fashions, 
such as leather pants and long, dangling earrings. The trouble is. she's 
45 years old and somewhat overweight and her clothes detract from her 
inherent sensibility. Sou Id I say something to her?
B.K.
Dear B. K..
According to noted anthropologists, after the postsusananthony 
period, women are free.
Zak and John:
Will you please see that Sam takes a bath?
Observant
Alone, in bad Company.
Alice
Until next week—Personally Yours.
Bea Gainslev
(CPSi — The American Coun­
cil on Education i ACE i has join­
ed the National Student Associa­
tion (NSAi President Charles Pal­
mer in calling for an end to II-S 
Student Selective Service defer­
ments.
ACE said it once supported stu­
dent deferments as being neces­
sary for the national welfare, but 
now. under the lottery. ’ The avail­
able pool of draft eligible men is 
so large as compared to the num­
bers likely to be called into serv­
ice that a termination of student 
deferments cannot affect the reg­
ular flow of highly educated man­
power.
Also at issue, according to ACE. 
is the question of equity. In order 
to make the draft more equitable, 
the government must ‘‘expose all 
young men of a given age to exact­
ly the same probability of induc­
tion," it said. It recommended 
that those currently enrolled in 
college be allowed to graduate.
Palmer favors a voluntary 
army but has taken the position 
that if the draft is to continue, it 
would be fairer to eliminate stu­
dent deferments becuase they fav­
or affluent youth able to afford 
colege over poor Black and Chi- 
cano youth.
Hearings on the draft are sched­
uled to begin this month in the 
Armed Services Committee. Sec­
retary of Defense Melvin Laird 
has already said the Nixon admin­
istration will press for an end to 
student deferments this legisla­
tive session.
2£2£Ewn-—ma
