<Dhe Cartiere Parian
Vol. 35 No. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1941
Vol.35NlCC AlRRC EG Il. 
S35TU53EN 3N IUO3 FlHLUNo
Assembly Today 
Is To Feature 
Howard Elkington
Today at 11:30 - the first General 
Assembly for- the year will be held 
in the Little Theatre of the Fine 
Arts School. This Assembly in par­
ticular promises to be of great in­
terest due to its timely and much 
discussed subject “Changes in Ger­
many, 1939. .to 1941.” Howard 
Elkinton, the. distinguished Euro­
pean Representative of the Amer­
ican Friends Service Committee, 
who has just returned from Berlin, 
will be the speaker. Mr. Elkin- 
ton’s current travels in Germany 
and throughout war-torn Europe 
make his knowledge fresh and 
vivid.
He was . investigating for the 
Quaker Society of Friends in Ger­
many when the attack on Soviet 
Russia began, and he was forced to 
leave. Mr. Elkinton is a keen ob­
server who has had unusual op­
portunities for crossing national 
boundaries just at the crucial mo­
ment, and thus he can present pic­
tures vastly different from accounts 
given by others. We have heard 
so many theories advanced about 
what people think is going on in 
Germany that it ought to be very 
enlightening to hear what an eye 
witness has to say on . the sub­
ject.
The General Assemblies of last 
year proved highly successful, and 
it is hoped that those of this year 
will be supported by the students 
with as much enthusiasm. Dr. 
Gregg and Dr. Shultz who represent 
the .administration together with 
Jack Satterfield, ’42, who represents 
Student Council, are working dili­
gently to plan Assemblies which 
will please the student body. It is 
of interest to note that the As­
semblies are financed by a sum al­
lotted from Student Council’s bud­
get with the understanding that the 
administration will meet any ex­
cess up to 'an equal amount.
Thistle Pictures 
For Seniors Now 
Being Scheduled
Following the precedent set last 
year, the 1942 Carnegie Tech 
THISTLE will go on sale early this 
fall. The yearbook staff started 
yesterday to give appointments for 
sittings for the Senior pictures. Sen­
iors will be able to schedule pic­
tures for two weeks ending Sat­
urday, October 11. No pictures 
will be scheduled after this date, 
all: Seniors1 whovwish to have their 
picture in the yearbook must make 
appointments during the designated 
period.
When the pictures are scheduled 
the student must pay the charge of 
two dollars which covers the cost 
of the picture and the book. At 
this time he will receive an appoint­
ment card which he must present 
when his picture Is • to be taken. 
Pictures will be taken from Wed­
nesday-. •. October 1 to Saturday, Oc­
tober 25 at the Carnegie Union. All 
Seniors who are entitled to a pic­
ture should go to Administration 
Hall any weekday from 11:30 till 
1:30 and get their appointment.
On November 3, the sale of the 
yearbook to the underclassmen will 
start, and will continue for two 
weeks. Students will be able to 
obtain subscriptions from staff 
members and at booths located at 
various places - throughout the 
school. The cost of the’ -book for 
the umderclassmen will be'two dol­
lars.
Vol.35 N3CA 
Rl5 R53EGo3I
Tonight at 8:00 P. M. a smoker 
will be held by the sponsors of 
the Management Engineering De­
partment for the Freshmen regis­
tered in that course. The smokei 
will be<^l4;m.the- Carnegie Union.
The program for the evening in­
cludes a talk by Dr. Guild, Head 
of the department, concerning the 
.work done by the Management En­
gineers. Following this Dr. Gregg 
pf the History Department will give 
¿a brief resume of his trip to Mex­
ico. After these two talks refresh­
ments wil be served.
All of the Freshmen of the de­
partment are requested to be pres­
ent for this will be a good oppor­
tunity to meet their sponsors, if 
they have not already done so. In 
addition, all upperclass students 
are invited to attend. This smoker 
is an integral part of the Fresh­
man Orientation program, the suc- 
pess of which depends on a large 
turnout.
AlY, AHU3NC 
PEH BlGlNCl
Carnegie Tech’s defense train­
ing program is about to get under 
way with the registration for de­
fense courses here on October 8, 
9, 10, arid 11. The-curriculum is 
designed to meet the specific needs 
for technically trained men and 
women which industry demands. 
Inclusion of courses in pure chem­
istry and physics and certain bus­
iness subjects related to produc­
tion problems are the main addi­
tions to the fall program. The re­
maining curriculum differs little 
from that offered in the early part 
of 1941.
Classes begin the week of Octo­
ber 13, and will continue for six­
teen weeks. In general, they are 
conducted two nights a \veek, three 
or four hours each night. Defense 
school will not be in session the 
weeks of December 22 and 29; 
courses end early in February.
All courses are given to students 
without charge for tuition. Ex­
penses such as supplies, textbooks, 
and other incidentals, however, are 
expected to be met by the student. 
Drawing equipment will be loaned 
to students without cost if return­
ed in good condition. A deposit is 
usually required, which will be re­
funded when the equipment is re­
turned. No cash is required at 
the time of registration.
Minimum requirements for all 
courses is graduation from high 
school or its equivalent. Applicants 
should be physically employable, 
and able to meet age and citizen­
ship requirements in industry and 
governmental civilian service. Final 
acceptance in any coux*se is con­
tingent upon personal interviews at 
time of registration.
Those interested in signing up 
for , a course should apply in person 
at the registration center which will 
be located in the Men’s Gymnasium 
at Tech. Registration on October 
8, 9, 10, will be from 2:30 P. M. to 
9:30 P. M., while that of October 
11, will be from 9:00 A. M. to 9:30 
P. M. Persons enrolling will save 
time by registering as early as pos­
sible since the evening hours are 
usually crowded. Information con­
cerning the time and place of 
classes will be given at the time of 
registration. Counsellors will be 
available to registrants to assist 
them in making a choice of courses.
Pennsylvania State College and 
the University of Pittsburgh also 
offer defense training programs in 
this district. The coordination office 
SlITUIO3A lI FHL3 Y
Scimitars Hold 
Coffee Dance
The Scimitar annual tea dance 
will be held in Thistle Hall on 
Thursday afternoon at 4:00 P. M. 
This year a new twist has been add­
ed. Since the campus is predom­
inantly tea-totaller, the tea frolic 
will be replaced by a coffee jug. The 
. Scimitars , have-, also . issued the 
statement that there will be rio lack 
of the masculine element there.
A local band will play for the 
dance and refreshments will be on 
hand in the form of cokes.
As usual the tariff will be -but 
twenty-five cents. Advanced R. O. 
T. C. members in uniform will be 
admitted after 5:15 for the purely 
nominal fee of ten cents. Tick­
ets are available at the gate or from, 
any;. Scimitar or Cwen members.
Elections Today
Elections will be held today in 
the three colleges to select persons 
to fill vacancies in Student Council 
positions. The polls will be open 
from 11:30 to 1:30 at the usual poll­
ing places. The candidates are as 
follows:
Senior Representative in 
Engineering
Fraternity ............ Albert Kritclier
Independent .............David Wolosin
Junior Class President, Arts
Fraternity ................ Robert Smith
Independent..............Jack L. Loftus
Assistant Secretary. M. M. C. C. 
Marianna Hogg 
Virginia Fullman
Pep Rally
Band, Plebes March; 
Spirit Runs High
By Ed Goldstein
O. K., plebe, your services are 
desired at the Bowl. Thex-e’s just 
a little matter of building a bonfire 
about twenty feet high and twelve 
feet in diameter.
Friday night hundx*eds of stu­
dents were summoned to the first 
pep rally of the year. Head Cheer­
leader Tommy Dui'bin started off 
the cheering before the fire. The 
slogan as the fire was lit was “We 
are using one-third less gas.”
As the crowd grew to about 500, 
the band, led by Paul Wines, filed 
onto the field and the crowd took 
up the chant. Doc Baker’s short 
talk was illuminated by the flames 
of the bonfire and scores of flares 
carried by the students. "The Tech 
team may not be on top right now, 
as only three or four men of to- 
moiTow’s team will be vetcx'ans.” 
Charles Richardson, president of 
Student Council, announced that 
President Doherty had suddenly 
appeared in the crowd and called 
upon him to address the assembled 
students. “I am. glad, to see this 
demonstx-alion and appreciate it<v 
vex-y much.” “We will all be out 
to root tomorrow and help the team 
win.”
The band stax'ted down the field, 
and the entire cxmvd fell in behind 
them singing at the top of their 
voices. The huge ci;owd entered 
Forbes Street at Student Union, it 
was the most ' brilliant • scene wit­
nessed on campus this year. The 
long snake-dance was spotted with 
the brilliant glai-e of the flax*es car­
ried by the studexits.
As the crowd went down Forbes 
Street, Paul Wines told the ex­
cited fellows who wanted to take 
the band down to Oakland that “the 
poor ole’ band has been out the last 
three nights and gosh, fellows, we 
need a rest.” The phalanx advanced 
down Frew Street to the dorms with 
the situation pretty well out of 
contx’ol. The .dramatic climax to 
the evening’s festivities was held 
in front of the gym when thè band 
filed past the throng to put their 
instruments away.
Memoranda . . .
Sept. 30—Traditions Exam.. MMCC
Sept. 30—Upperclass Elections___
Sept. 30—Assembly. Fine Arts Bldg. 
Oct. 1—C. W. C. A. Dinner Meet­
ing ..................................  .Union
Oct. 2—Scimitar Tea Dance ....
.................................... Thistle Hall'
Oct. 3—Fall Carnival................Gym
Oct. 4—Fall Carnival—Afternoon
.................................... Music Hall
Evening—Campus
S’nS Meeting
There will be an important meet­
ing of the Scotch and Soda Club 
this afternoon at 4:30 in the Arts 
Theater. All members are urged 
to a.ttend.
Plo3IBE DOEGUIL 
V3HElI Tl VTH5T 
MI M0Tl135 9TG
Sorority rushing will be officially 
opened in Margaret Morrison 
Thursday, October 9. The season 
will last until October 19, covering 
two week-ends. The following is 
a summaiy of the rules covering 
rushing:
la. Rushing by a member or 
group of members is prohibited in 
Max-garet Morrison until after 8:30 
A. M., Thursday, October 9.
b. Rushing shall end at 5:30 P. 
M. ¡each day dux’ing rushing season, 
with the exception of formals, teas, 
and buffet suppex*s.
2. No money may be spent on 
individual rushing; sorority mem­
bers may not entertain rushees at 
their homes or dox-mitories, and are 
not permitted to pay for a rushee’s 
meals.
3. Sorority girls may not have 
more than two consecutive lunch­
eon dates with a rushee, and may 
not make, dates for Freshman girls.
4. Rushing season shall be ter­
minated by a “silence period” of 
three days, beginning at midnight 
on Sunday evening of the last week 
of rushing, and ending at 4:30 
o’clock Wednesday afternoon. Mon­
day morning the sororities will 
write bids to the girls they desire 
to pledge. The answers of the 
rushees shall be ready for the soxw- 
ities Wednesday of the same week 
at 4:30 o’clock. If the bid is not 
answered by the rushee at 4:30 on 
Wednesday, it will not be accept­
ed until the end of a two-month 
period.
5. During the silence period, 
there shall be no communication 
by note, word, or telephone, be­
tween sorority girls and rushees.
(>. There shall be a personal 
fine of not less than five dollars and 
not more than ten dollars placed 
on a sorority member, or pledge, 
who tries to influence the decision 
of a rushee who has already hand­
ed in her preference.
7. In Margaret Morrison, a pros­
pective member of a sox*orily must 
have completed two semesters to be 
eligible for membex’ship, and must 
be in good standing according to 
SlITUIO3A lI FHL3 Y
Doherty Appoints 
Student Group
At a dinner to be given at Pres­
ident R. E. Doherty’s home, the 
newly fox*med Student Conference 
Committee will hold its fix’st meet­
ing some time in October.
The Committee, just appointed 
by the Px*esident, has been formed 
so that he and the student leadex’s 
might have a better opportunity for 
confex*ence to study campus prob­
lems. Many people on the campus 
have voiced the need for such a 
px*ogram, and the new plan should 
satisfy them il all respects.
Composing the gx*oup are: the 
president and seci’etary of Stu­
dent Council, the editors of the 
TARTAN and the TECHNICAL, 
and the presidents of the Men’s 
and Women’s Dormitory Councils, 
Interfraternity and Intersorority 
Councils, Interhonorary Council, 
Citcom Clan, and Scotch and Soda. 
This, year the representatives are, 
respectively: Charles Richax*dson,
’42, Dorothy Piper. ’42, Saul Moses, 
’42, Robert Beck, ’42, Paul Wines, 
’42, Mary Bower, ’42, Robert 
Schwerin, ’42, Margaret Young, ’42, 
Jack Evans, ’42, Robert McBride, 
’42, and Robert Challener, ’42.
In addition, President Doherty 
may also appoint ona or two mem­
bers- at. large.
Frosh Regulations Enforced
The reception of Freshmen to 
Tech in recent years has been 
marked by gradual substitution of 
friendliness for hazing, this year 
culminating in the inauguration of 
the Freshmen orientation program. 
Such progressive steps would have 
been impossible had it not been for 
the wholehearted cooperation re­
ceived from the upper classmen.
Two years ago a plan was ptit in­
to effect which required all upper 
classmen to sign pledges stating 
that they would refrain from all 
physical hazing, and at the same 
time Freshmen pledged to wear reg­
ulation dinks and ties. While this 
policy has been followed, physical 
hazing has disappeared from the 
campus. The upper classmen have 
kept their promise, but this year as 
last,, the number wearing x-egula- 
tiontion dinks and ties has decided­
ly decreased after the first few days 
of school.
To prove that we were not fool­
ing when we said the freshmen 
were to ¦ wear dinks and ties, the 
Freshmen Orientation Committee 
has extended the time of regulation 
period, and postponed the traditions 
Exam until Tuesday, October 14.
The freshmen have no excuse for 
not wearing their dinks and ties 
since they no longer mean that the 
freshmen are “marked” and sub­
ject to physical hazing. The en­
forcement of the regulation should 
not rest upon the Scimitars or the 
Freshmen Orientation Committee 
alone, but upon the upperclassmen 
as a whole. It is tnae that the 
freshmen will run across the harm­
less practical • jokers* . bi^t we are 
confident from past experience and 
observation the upper classmen will 
not go too far. (Don't let us down 
upper classmen.)
Old Carnegie traditions should be 
adhered to, and the upper class­
men should l'eel free to assume re­
sponsibilities to see that:
1. Freshjnen do not use main 
entrance to the Fine Arts Build­
ing and Administration Building.
2. Freshmen remove dinks while 
passing Senior Fence.
3. Freshmen never walk on the 
Senior Walk, the Senior Walk be­
ing a walk parallel to and directly 
in front of Engineering Hall.
A practice which should be stim­
ulated is that of speaking to Fresh­
men by upper classmen and vice
DTMCEN0BlRUN1l 9UNM 
AE4C PURR sUHN3eUR S,E.
Show, Derby, 
Dance«, Promise 
Gala Celebration
versa. It takes no extra time and 
nequires so little effort to say 
“HELLO.”
Upper classmen who find fresh­
men without dinks and ties are ask­
ed to take their names, and drop a 
signed note in the box irj front of 
the post office in the Administration 
Building, These charges will be 
reviewed by the Freshman Orienta­
tion Community and the Freshmen 
will l^e summoned to appear before 
this committee.
The traditions exam will be given 
on Tuesday, October 14. All those 
passing the exams will be entitled 
to stop wearing dinks and ties after 
the Notre Dame game on October 
18, and will receive a lapel button. 
Those who fail the exam will have 
to continue wearing the regulations 
until they pass the reexam and will 
be unable to participate in extra 
curricular activities. The fx’esh- 
men passing the exam will march to 
the Notre Dame game behind the 
band.
Why not cooperate Freshrrien? Its 
for your own good.
Signed Chairman of Freshman 
Orientation Committees.
PAUL WINES.
Will NOAElI
Tliistlc Pictures
The following is a schedule for 
the’ taking of group pictures for the 
Thistle. All organizations should 
be at the scheduled place promptly 
at the appointed time. Any failure 
to comply with the schedule will 
result in a fine of one dollar per 
organization or exclusion of the pic­
ture from the yearbook. If it is Im­
possible to have the picture taken 
at the designated time, the group 
should contact Robert Mollers at 
the Thistle office or at SC. 9108.
GROUP 
Sunday, October 5
1 :!I0Fhl K :i pim nini
plollgCV ......................III front of
1 ¡noSiculi» Al|ili» r,pillimitlio roNpeutlve
Ullil pledgOH ..............
unoKnppn Sigma unii
pirdgon ......................
¿illO.n l'Alt Vol .................Student Union
8 fioTau llotit FI ...............Sliiilnil Union
«inoFili Kappa Fili.............Student Union
¡1:00T lieta Tnu ......................Student Union
«¡10l'I Tnu Sigma.............Stillimi Union
11:20Sun riti» ..........................Student Union
»¡¡IOliln Kitppn Nil..............Student Union
8i40FI Dolili l'.pitllon.........St ml nu I Union
8:50Drilli Skull ..................Studont Union
•»¡00Hoi ml tur» ......................St il dr lit Union
1:10Fhl Mu Alpini.............Student Union
‘1 ¡20Tnu Sigma Doltu..........Student Union
Sunday, October 12
1 ¡.’IOSooboll Unii .................
«¡noWelch Unii ....................In front of
2:10Hondcrnon Unii ...........the roHpocllve
2 ¡¡IOIIohm Unii ......................dormitorio»
2:50Medili Ilnll ..................
¡1:10Knppn Fili Dolili
, Student Union
¡1:20G n in imi Fili SI Rimi
ncllvcH ......................Studont Union
8:80Alpha Thctn Sigma
actives .......................Student Union
8:40Alpha Knppn Fui
.Student Union
¡1:50lieta FI nctlvcH...........Student Union
4:00Ilota Tnu Lnmlidn
.Student Union
4 :t0Gamma Guninin Gniiimn
nctlvcH .......................Student Union
4:20Intorsororily Council..Student Union
Tuesday, October 14
11 .*¡10 Chanci Clinlr ..............Student Union
11:40Radio Club ....................Student Union
11:50Student Union
12:00Scabbard and Blade...Student Union
12:10Student Union
Sunday, October 19t::io.Studont Union
1 : IOStudent Union
1:50Studont Union
2:00ICappu Clil Knppn....Student Union
2:10Alpha Chi Alpini.........Student Union
2:20Student Union
2::<0Debating Team.............Student Union
2:40Student Council...........Student Union2:50Interfraternity CouncilStudent Union
¡{¡00Student Union
8:10Spring Carnival
Student Union
8:20Alpha Theta Sigma
pledges ......................Student Union
SlITUIO3A lI FHL3 Y
45T sIET5O0Tl5 
e3EULIE mO5HC
Things keep happening right un­
der our very noses, and it’s months, 
if not years, before we find out 
anything about them. Last year, 
jn fact last, October, 1940, to be 
pxact, Mr. Robert Lepei;, of Car­
negie Tech’s pairitihg and design, 
department was' commissioned to 
paint a mural for a lecture hall in 
the Mineral Industries building of 
West Virginia University, and this 
is the first time it is being made 
public knowledge. Mr. Leper has 
£een working on the mural ever 
,since and expects to finish it by 
December.
Since the mural depicts the pro­
cesses and products of two minei’al 
industries, coal and gas ,it was 
(necessary for Mr. Leper to do a 
great deal of research in both of 
these fields; In this way, , his fig­
ures and shapes are true to form 
and will, therefore, have meaning 
to the chemical engineers who will 
,view the huge piece of work.
The main figuration, that of the 
extraction of coal and gas from the 
ground, is in the center of the 
mural, and then the processes in­
volved in the purification and the 
making of other products from 
.these sources branch off to the 
right and left respectively.
The gigantic/ canvas on which 
.Mr. Leper is painting this master­
piece is twelve feet high and forty- 
six feet long. When the mural is 
finished it will be mounted on the 
wall at the end of the big lecture 
hall in a rotunda effect.
BULLETIN:
!fH Glenn Miller will serenade Car­
negie Tcch’s Fall Carnival on Ches­
terfield’s Moonlight Serenade, C. B. 
S. tonight at 10:00 p. m,
BULLETIN:
Ixxcludcd in the Saturday after­
noon Scotch and Soda program iu 
Thistle Hall will be a huge Quiz 
Show with prizes up to ten dollars 
(§10) per question. Quiz Master 
will be Roland Kraus, dance di­
rector of the Scotch and Soda. All 
Fall Festival ticket holders will be 
admitted on their tickets, and each 
will have the opportunity of going 
to the stage to compete for the cash 
prizes.
Friday night will mark the inau­
guration of Carnegie Tech's first 
Fall Carnival . The idea of such a 
weekend for fun and frolic before 
we all get too immersed in a sea 
of vague formulae, crew, charette 
and what have you can be mainly 
attributed to Student Council with 
Mike Bosak, ’42, as committee 
chairman.
The grand barrage of fun will 
commence Friday night, October 5, 
at an informal dance in the Men’s 
Gymnasium from 10 P, M.-2 A. 
M. (2:30’s dorm girls). Furnishing 
the music will be Will Hudson-Ed- 
dle DeLange Orchestra.
Tickets may be obtained from 
any member of the Dragon So­
ciety at the nominal fee of $2.50.
Jack Satterfield, ’42, head of the 
decoration committee, ha» -planned 
on transforming the gym into a 
night club or cafe with a roped in 
dance floor. Tables will be placed 
around the floor and just wait un­
til you iipe the table cloths! But 
we’ll keep mum about them, be­
cause there have to be some sur­
prises in store for you.
Classes will be held as usual on 
Saturday, but in the afternoon 
about 2:30 you can all relax at the 
variety show Marvin Einhorn, ’42, 
has concocted Tor your enjoyment. 
The show will include some of 
those wonderful Scotch and Soda 
acts of the past few years, some 
new acts, and rumor has it that a 
few skits from some of the Pitt 
and Duqucsne shows might be in­
corporated in this galaxy of en­
tertainment. Bleachers will be put 
up in the gym, so first come, first 
served in the way of seats!
After the show there will be a 
soap box derby held between Park 
Mansions and Industries Hall 
scheduled to start at 4:0 P. M. It 
is open t9 everyone, but the cost 
of the racer is limited to $5.00 and 
there will be an entrance fee of 50c. 
All prospective contestants are 
urged to contact Tom Riley, ’42, 
who is in charge of this event. A 
cup will be awarded to the winner. 
Street dancing might also be held 
in the Rotunda in front of "Maggy 
Murph” but that is still undecided.
As to Satux'day night . . . well, 
all the fraternities and men’s 
doi'ms plus Citcom Clan and the 
Newman Club are goipg to hold 
their own dances.
CWCA Plans 
Outdoor Dinner
Next Wednesday, the Carnegie 
Women’s Christian Association will 
hold its first meeting of the year 
from 4:30 to 5:30 P. M. at the Union. 
At 6:30 P. M. dinner will be served; 
Every girl is invited.
. Instead of . the usual T custom of 
one main' speaker,' therfc' VS|T be 
. short talks, such as: reports on sum­
mer conferences in large United 
States schools, and an explanation 
of the meaning of the C. W. C. A. 
The dinner will take the form of a 
picnic to be held outside on the 
lawn. Those interested can sign up 
on the bulletin boards. The din­
ner costs 25 cents—to be paid at the 
Union.
On the ltecord
For all students interested in 
hearipg propograph recitals, the 
following programs will be held this 
week.
Today, September 30, 12:30, Room 
157, Arts. Mr. Charles A. H. Pear­
son will supervise this pcrioi*m- 
ance:
Fourth Symphony........ Beethoven
Thursday, October 2, 12:30, Room 
157, Arts. Dr. Frederick Dorian 
will be in charge of a recital of var­
ied selections of newly acquired 
classical and modern records.
In accordance, similar programs 
will take place every week in the 
Fine Arts Building ilrom, 12:30 to 
1:30 In Room 157. Mr, Perfpson will 
conduct the Tuesday meetings and 
Dr. Dorian will supervise those 
held on Thursday.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAENEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1941
Regulations Soon Forgotten
On the first page will be found a statement from the Freshman 
Orientation Committee directed to the student body. The committee 
Was found it necessary to define as clearly as possible the obligations 
of both the freshmen,and the upperclassmen in respect to “regula­
tions and mental hazing."
Two years ago an active campaign was conducted on tliis cam­
pus to abolish hazing. This year the Class of 1945 was welcomed to 
a Tech which was free from hazing. The removal of the “big stick” 
has precipitated a flagrant violation of regulations on the part of 
the plebes. Disregard of regulations has provided the excuse for 
uhpercinKsmen to practice a modified form of hazing—“mental haz­
ing.” None of us welcomes the return to conditions of two and three 
years ago. At the same time we do not want to destroy the spirit 
anil traditions of the school.
We believe that it is the duty of every freshman to conform to 
-all regulations and the duty of all to cooperate with the Orientation 
Committee, iu keeping our campus free of hazing.
Warnings For Fraternities
Last. Friday morning one of the fraternity houses located 011 
Forbes street was burglarized. It was disclosed during a prelimin­
ary investigation that the burglars must have entered the fraternity 
house sometime during the immediate hours before sunrise. The 
loot which ineluded personal valuables was valued at approximately 
$200. .Last year three such robberies were reported.
Let this serve as a warning to all fraternity houses and dormito­
ries. Take the necessary precautions to safeguard your valuables. 
Jn case of robbery, report the trouble immediately to both the police 
and the school authorities.
Tartan Adds Collegiate Digest
Beginning today and continuing throughout the remainder of 
the college year, the TARTAN will present the Collegiate Digest as 
a regular feature. The Digest is a national collegiate rotogravure of 
Campus life from all parts of the country. We have received word 
from the publishers that pictures of Carnegie Tech will appear in the 
following issues of the Digest.
To insure the representation of Carnegie in the Digest issues, 
the TARTAN will sponsor a photography contest. Next week’s 
isjsue of the TARTAN will, carry a story on the contest. Pictures 
may,be submitted by all interested persons and the three or five best 
pictures will receive cash awards. The winning pictures will be sent 
to the Digest for insertion in future issues. More about the contest 
next week.
More About Library
Last, week we spoke of the contradictory situation which ex­
isted on the, Carnegie Tech campus* whereby we have an educa­
tional institution which is first-rate and facilities in our library 
which are, at best only third-rate. Since the last issue of the 
TARTAN we have been speaking to various members of the stu- 
dent-body and we have found that they agree with us in our claim 
that an excellent library with proper study-facilities' for our large 
group of- commuters seems necessary to the further progress of 
our school'. .
Originally, there were two rather good reasons for the paradox 
whereby the, college endowed by Andrew Carnegie, who gave a 
huge fortune to establish hundreds of public libraries, was not 
provided with a library.
The, Carnegie Institute of Technology was established in 1905 
under the name of the Carnegie Technical Schools with the pur­
pose of giving vocational training suited to the requirements of 
the Pittsburgh industrial district. Mr. Carnegie thought of the 
institution as chiefly concerned, as he said, with “Ilandication” 
rather than “Ileadication. ” Time however brought a fundament­
ally different conception to Mr. Carnegie as to the type of institu­
tion needed. In 1912, the Carnegie Technical Schools were offi­
cially recognized as an institution of higher learning, and the en­
siling years were characterized by a gradual shift to emphasis from 
the shop to the laboratory, from crafts to science, from the bench 
to books. . ,
Another eause of lack of library provision at the founding of 
the Institute lay in the existence of the Carnegie Library a short 
distance from the campus. II. was considered that the resources 
ol! the library would satisfy all student reading needs, but, in the 
words of Dr. Ralph Munn, Director of the Carnegie Library, “The 
library nyeds of faculties and students are so great and so special­
ized that only a university library organized exclusively for their 
needs can serve them properly ... A good public library is neces­
sarily a. poor university library ...”
Thus, it is the necessary duty of our Institute to provide the 
proper library service to the studont-body and faculty. But the 
entire picture is overshadowed by the fact of the inadequacy of 
our present building. Careful study has been devoted to the 
planning of the building by the administration and faculty and by 
independent experts. The cost of the proposed building, with read­
ing rooms and conference rooms, particularly for the commuters 
who need a place to study, is estimated, at* $1,000,000. With a 
$1,000,000 donation now, an additional $2,000,000 endowment 
from the Carnegie Corporation of New York would make the gift 
count threefold, and would solve the vital problem of providing a 
top-ranking education situation with a library which, when built, 
will represent, an invaluable contribution, tangible and long-endur­
ing to the broadening concept of technical education.
_______________________________________________________________IB. J. K.
• MFUIUlIb 3yF53EE3A UI TG3 FHL3E ld TG3at4Dt4u H53 TGlE3 ld TG3 o3or
135E ld TG3 ETHddw UI TG3 0HE3 ld TG3 3AUTl5UHC 0lCOoI TG3k H53 TGlE3 ld TG3 
iAUTl5n tG3k H53 IlTn Tl 13 0lIET5O3A HE I303EEH5UCk TG3 lFUIUlIE ld 3UTG35 
TG3 ETOA3IT 1lAk l5 TG3 dH0OCTkn .
dTame^ie <Tartau
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PIIONE MAYFLOWER 2000 PPIIONE SCHENLEY 4557 •
National Advertising Service, Inc.SlT,Un gCUCUEU:5T-hF5fUhbO,I Editor-In-Chief ........ SChenlcy 9070
420 Madison ave, new York. n. y. Business Manager ....... JHAzel 3898
.l3.5NVCooifdtt *-Lot 5AVRE.G N I5o ST5o.3I.V Advertising Manager. .SChertfey. 9933.
Entered u^.Hccoml-oluss matter in the Pittsburgh Pdst Office under the Act of Maroh 3, 1870.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price SI.00 per year.
imI5aUIaSCUU0d ...................................................................................'. Sou! mlE3E
RCOEGU0ETw mHIHL35...............................................................nNH55k 415HolcUTp
Editor..........................................................................­lHII3 Tfshlarich
u3jE iAUTl5.....................................................................................Barbara -5Ho35
4EEUETHIT Mnwiijiiip Editor............................................ .......Gilbert Kiwnson
Copy Editor..........................f...........................................m3503A3E Cunningham
Co pi/ Editor.....................................................................................gGkCCUE “O0GoHI
.Sports Editor...........................................................................................joe Thomas
Advertising Manager.................................................................VkCcHI DlE0IdU3CA
Circulation Manager.....................................................................Sidney Gcbcioio
VTHdd Artist...........................................................................................Elliott Ttocry¿¡Kiris gGlTlL5HFG35........................................................................Charles Vcncil
Business VTHdd” e33 Atidella, Ted uU353I135If VOIIk vanderman CIco “HT3oHIn
­OIUl5 iAUTl5E” v3lIH5A SGlTUI35f Dl135T eUylIf gHT iCoHIf “UCC -UILf 
­3HII3 -UILf PHCT35 NHCC35f mH5UHIIH NlLLn ­H0. VGl53. m3CcUI VIkA35n
D3Fl5T35E” N3C3IH 45lIElIf el533I “H55kf PHCT35 eH51kf NH5lCA eU0.ElI 
’355k iA3CElIf uHloU iCCoHI. ­Uo ’3UETf SGH5C3E ’l3G5UILf tGHCUH 
NH555oIkf “UCC ,lkAf mn Dl11UIEf vlOUE3 VHOCf “OA t3U0GoHI elI PHT.UIEna
ENl EG 5,l mEoC
~ A Touch of Snn
bNCY,lMTRlM yUM3E dHE1HULC 
Harvey Hm yU3Cl DTLEHETC DUeEY EN a3H
This quiet chap is a senior in the 
Industrial Design department and 
is more than interested in his 
chosen field. Harvey Hill reflects 
this interest in his choice of hob­
bies, photography, sketching, and 
canoeing being the main sidelines 
in his life. So interested is he in 
canoeing that he constructed his 
own canoe, a difficult project show­
ing his talents are applicable to 
many fields. Flying attracts him 
also, for last year he completed the 
primary instruction course offered 
by the Civilian Pilot Training Pro­
gram.
Harvey is not only a hobby bug, 
but also a social cub, attending 
many dances and parties. His taste 
in music runs from an appreciation 
of Tchaikowsky to a toleration of 
Boogie-woogie, and he has been 
known to cut a mean rhumba.
An active member of the Pi Kap­
pa Alpha fraternity, he painted a 
mural depicting life in a frat house 
and donated it to the organization. 
This mural won honorable mention 
when it was exhibited at the As­
sociated Arts Exhibit. It was his 
first and to date the only exhibit 
of his work.
Harvey has been active and stu­
dious here at Tech. He has been 
on the honor roll, and was a mem­
ber of the Delta Skulls last year, 
and the Dragons this year. As a 
freshman he was president of his 
Fine Arts class and was also on the 
swimming team. He was assistant 
treasurer of Student Council last 
year, and was also chairman of the 
Freshman Regulations committee.
On this committee he took the
transitional step toward a fresh­
man orientation plan by cutting 
down on the hazing possibilities of­
fered to the sophomores, and also 
shortening the period of fresh­
man education as he terms it, 
This year he has stepped up to 
the position of treasurer of Stu­
dent Council, a job for which few 
will even volunteer.
Last summer he worked in Maine 
as a surveyor on a rural electrifica­
tion project. For reasons not clear­
ly defined, he says the first big 
project he will undertake will be 
the moving of Tech to Maine. As 
is typical of him, he bought a thirty 
dollar jallopy which was five days 
transporting him home. This vul­
nerable auto is now laid up tem- 
porai'ily, but not so with Harvey.
Cff The Cuff
Gleanings from the local grime:
Lucille Orr’s batting average is 
nothing short of sensational these 
days. John Horth took her to the 
Stanley Thursday night, Nelson 
Crooks did the honors at the Wel­
come Freshman dance, and A1 Bur­
ton is anxiously awaiting his turn 
for the Fall Carnival.
Holly Kraus is crying into his 
beer these days. Seems as how 
Audrey Botkin has- given him the 
go-by in favor of Norman Apell, a 
Soph Dramat.
Ruth Means and Nancy Morrison 
deserted the halls of Skibo last 
weekend, and gave two Westminster 
lads a break.
Dog Daze Department: Walt Hal­
ler, last year’s poodle but this year’s 
wolf.
Cleo Bateman, Tulsa’s gift to the 
women, has come back to school 
with a Chevy Master-DeLuxe 
Coupe, plus a few more girls to 
write to back home.
Pledge Beta and Save Your 
Nickels (not a paid ad). The 
brothers make up a list of who is 
dating whom for campus social 
events, so that no one wastes any 
nickels calling up girls who are al­
ready taken.
Those shouts of jubilation you 
hear all over the campus eminate 
from the fellows, who have just 
heard that Madge Hysong is back in 
circulation. Word reached this 
frontier outpost by pony express 
that her Phi Delt pin has been 
transplanted.
Tea leaf readings from Thurs­
day’s Delta Skull Sewing Bee:
Marianna Hogg not only left her 
rocking chair long enough to rub 
elbows with the youngsters, but 
also got in for 24 cents. Wearing, 
her armband of two years back, she 
passed herself off as a freshman. 
Ask Bill Furlich about her inno­
cent questions.
Jeahie Howard was one of the
most popular women in Thistle 
Hall, Henry (Smooth - as - Ever) 
Bird tried his best to monopolize 
her company until the wolves went 
to work.
T. J. Harmany and Helen Robin­
son made up for their absence the 
previous week by keeping in con­
stant circulation.
Mid Pierce and Chuck Lange did 
their very best in the Weatherwax 
league, but had tough competition.
Bill I-Ieer seemed very apathetic 
about the whole thing, until Aleta 
Cornelius showed up. Then he 
really started trying.
We should like to deliver a part­
ing shot in the direction of those 
Tech men who are exploring alien 
campus (or is it -campi?) for date 
material. You’re overlooking a lot 
of really smooth Tech material. We 
have gobs and gobs of beautiful 
women here, so get on the ball!
Revised Pledge List
At press time l&st week we were 
unable to secure the pledge list of 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Thus this list 
was necessarily omitted from last 
week’s TARTAN. The pledges are: 
Charles Busch 
Everett Call 
John Connally 
John Connor 
John Fritz 
George Kuhlman 
Kempton Roll 
David -Saylor 
Richard • Seckinger 
Bill Stewart 
William Swigar£
Corrections In Last Week’s 
Fraternity Pledges
Phi Kappa 
Robert J. Beck Joseph Pribulsky
William J. Campbell William E. Purtell 
Robert A. DeBortoli George J. Saluaggio 
Elmer R. D'Orazio Francis Sarodsky
Otto C. Magel Louis J. Schmidt
Robert W. Merritt Richard Winkler
Pi Kappa Alpha
By Pat Elman
Sun spots raised such havoc elec­
trically the other day that conversa­
tions over telephone lines came in 
on radio programs. The talk be­
tween two girls discussing a blind 
date and of two men having a bus­
iness argument broke in on a radio 
broadcast quite clearly.
We all are for this kind of solar 
disturbance. Something has long 
been needed to help radio pro­
grams hold our interest.
We have been amused at the 
number of times we have come in­
to a place with the radio going full 
blast and asked, “What’s this all 
about?” only to have the people 
in the room snap out of a reverie 
and reply, “I don’t know. I wasn’t 
paying any attention.”
And if telephone calls break in- 
on radio programs, it will be a case 
of turn about being fair play. Ra­
dio programs have been interfering 
with telephone conversations for 
years. Fancy this . . .
“Hello ... I wish to speak to 
Mr. Potter ... and the yolks 
of three fresh eggs ...”
“Yes . . . Who . . . You, too, 
can give your hair that rich, 
lustrous look . . . what? ...”
“I say I wish to speak to Mr. 
Potter . . . the anti-acid favored 
by millions . . . This is Arthur B. 
Twizzle . . . "made of clear Ha\rana 
wrapper ...”
“Can you speak a little louder 
. . . and add one cup of flour and 
the juice of two pineapples . . . 
Heigh-Ho, Silver! . . . ”
“Hello . . . Lissen ... Is Mr. 
Potter . . . full of essential vit­
amins . . . there?
“Mr. Potter is not here .
Would you care to speak to . . . 
the Goldbergs? . '. . ”
“No. Will you . . . eliminating 
dandruff1 . . . give him a message 
.' . . in a chocolate coating?”
“Yes . . . Double or nothing!
. . . Followed by Kate Smith.” 
“Tell him that Mr. Twizzle . . . 
than which there is no better gas 
eliminator . . . called up with re­
gard to that little deal between the 
Herkimer people and ... Oh,
Donald Beck 
Grant Cavënder 
Andreas Heuser 
William Hill 
Robert Lang 
Louis Lavie 
Chester Melton
Richard Neidrauer 
Robert Rendlemen 
Jack Sherwood 
Harry Smith 
Louis Valentour 
William Warfel 
Wm. Woollenweber
Donald Y.ochum
B-O-W-L
SAbBVIA 9turwIF ki YlN5C
Per line between the hours of 12 and 5 P. M.
UNIVERSITY RECREATION
407 S. Craig St. (Near Forbes) MAyflower 2998
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
Daddy, Oh, Daddy . . . Bang!
Bang! . . . Whee-eee!- . <. . Erp!— 
Erp!”
“Modern design”
“Okay . . . And ask for the dou­
ble-edged blade.”
So bring on more sun spots. The 
radio has been pretty dull lately. 
We want to tune in and hear some­
thing like this:
“And now we bring you Mr. 
Swing . . . Good evening . . . 
The big news from the war front 
today centers around these two sit­
uations . . . Hello, Mabel . . . 
Where did you go after I left? . . . 
You did! . . . Who, me? . . . 
Well, we just drove around, and do 
you know what he said to me? . . . 
Lissen, you’ll scream over this . . . 
And, turning to events on the other 
front, let us consider'the situation 
in the Ukraine.
“The Germans crossed the Don 
River and . . . who? . . . not a 
chance ... I can't even get a 
ticket for myself . . . And, Myrtle r 
get this, he then asks me. to marry 
him . . . north, of Petrograd . . . 
which makes the situation critical 
. . . vanilla coated . . . and it 
gives you that radiant feeling that 
comes with a breakfast rich in vit­
amins . . . despite denials from 
the Iran Government . . . Yeah. 
. . . Tonight in front of the bank 
. . . which has paid dividends con­
tinuously for 153 years . . Spell­
ed backwards!”
Manager Needed
Anyone, freshman or sophomore, 
who wants to try out for' the po­
sition of circulation manager of the 
Carnegie Tartan should report to 
the Tartan office today at 4:30. The 
position is wide opën, and is one 
vital in the Tartan staff.
<DheC ar hr
ISALYS
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLOND1KES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores ip the 
College District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
SHEAFFER PENS AND PENCILS
Z5' 
¿iflVENUE!3SINŒR™ sHffl“™“'“1»PITTSBURG!# 
SINGER’S REPAIRS OLD PENS AND PENCILS
What are you doing with
What reayotW udin Wgetw,..
A better method is to send it home regularly by Rail­
way Express—^and have it returned the same way.
Our service is fast, sure—and convenient. Economical 
rates include pick-up and delivery at no extra charge 
within our regular vehicle limits in all cities and prin­
cipal towns. Your choice of prepaid or collect charges.
Just as convenient too, for ’most any shipment: 
Baggage, gifts, cake or a pet elephant.
ndyVSS
5UOA.F HA.C
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Intramural Notes
PEE5mURR bNMlH.Uog Il. sEUY, 
PEH PlNY3N1: uHlC5R3N1 S5UH5C
TARTAN GRIDDERS
<Dhe<CartiP
TEAM FAILS IN CLUTCH 
“k ­l3 tGloHEf VFl5TE iAUTl5
There has been n decided change 
in the manner in which the Intra­
mural Football will be run. In­
stead of the usual elimination the 
schedule has been set- up as a reg­
ular league competition. The rea­
sons for this are numerous, but 
from all appearances many of the 
teams with only, fair material, will 
benefit by this arrangement. They 
will be able to place their men in 
the positions for which they are 
best fitted. Also by the end of the 
season a faster and much improv­
ed brand of football will be played. 
As a matter of fact this brand of 
ball will be required to win any 
one of the leagues. In other words 
all teams will be placed on an 
equalized basis.
Another change which will in­
crease the usefulness of the pro­
gram is that of limiting the en­
trees. Each organization previ­
ously entered all their members. 
When this happened the team had 
less unity and the difficulty of 
checking the players for eligibility, 
etc., was greatly increased. The 
limit is 18. With 18 members of 
an organization eligible to play 
three teams can be had on the field. 
Certainly three teams are sufficient 
to carry on such a league.
The leagues are broken down to 
include six fraternity teams in one, 
six other fraternities in another and 
seven independent teams in still 
another. The teams in each group 
will compete for their own partic­
ular pennant and then the three 
winning teams will compete for the 
school championship.
What with the type of schedule 
that is being set up this year, more 
teams will have to play the same 
day. In the same line of reason­
ing more fields wl|l be needed,
therefore the fields will run parallel 
to Forbes Street. Possibly four 
fields can be layed out in the avail­
able space, each' being about sixty 
yards long.
The officials will be Alex Riddel, 
Paul Gulnther, Paul May, Frank 
Kirk, Dick Padden, and ,11m Geist. 
Several others may .Have entered 
their names after this, writing.
Fencing-
A new coach has been securcd 
for fencing this year. This man RI 
one of the better known fencers in 
this part of the country. His rec­
ommendations are' the highest. He 
has had a great deal'of experience 
coaching, and Coach Harsky will 
emphasize individual attention. The 
first semester will be set aside as an 
instruction period. That is, this 
semester there will be no competi­
tion but all the time will be set for 
practice. Then in the second se­
mester competition along the same 
lines as the qther Intramural sports 
will be plated on the program. 
Practice will be held • in the Gym 
on Tuesdays between 2:30 and 5:30 
as best fits the schedule of those 
who report. The only cost will be 
that of one’s equipment.
Wrestling:
Coach Alexander of wrestling 
fame is offering his services' to the 
school gratis. Pie believes that there 
should be much' more interest stir­
red in the art of grappling in such 
a school as we have here. For this 
reason he is going to hand the 
school a bill of exactly no bucks. 
The material here is of a high cal­
iber the only “if” is that it is' still 
potential. This sport will be in­
corporated Into the regular list of 
sports on this year’s card. Coach 
will tutor at the Gym beginning 
October I, for all who are inter­
ested.
Tartans Lose Number One
Starting off the current football season with the wrong foot, the 
Carnegie Tech grid squad managed to lose a heart-breaking game to 
"Westminster at- the Stadium last Saturday. Practically everyone 
who witnessed the struggle will agree that Tech could have won the 
contest if better football had been played in several instances. The 
boys showed the public in the statistics that they were much better 
than Westminster^ but they did not have the stuff.when it. was 
needed on the field in the crucial moments. . Several potential touch­
down drives were stopped in the shadow of the goal-posts ill the 
second arid tliird quarters which might have changed the final count, 
but the score still stands in the records in favor of the Titans.
Sophomore Virgil Cantini made his debut as a Tartan sharp­
shooter. .at the Stadium, putting on one of the best passing shows 
seen around these parts in years. Virg has certainly lived up to 
Doc Baker’s predictions, hitting his mark 16 out of 39 times for a 
total of 186 yards. Joe Pash displayed his last year’s form in the 
few times he was seen in action as a ball-carrier, especially on the 
punt he ran back for a score. The general opinion of the spectators 
was that Pash should have run the ball more, basing their wishes on 
the fine returns that he made on several occasions, with the aid of 
some good blocking.
Oddity of the Game
Virg Cantini performed a rare feat with one of his. passes in 
the opener with the Titans last week, by completing it to himself. 
One of his flat passes over the line was partially blocked by a West­
minster player and knocked up into the air. As it came down, Virg 
got his hands on the ball again and advanced five yards through the 
line before he was brought to the ground.
JOHN ANDERSON BILL JOHNSON
Two of last year’s regulars, who started in Saturday’s game against 
Westminster are John Anderson (left) and Bill Johnson. Anderson is left 
End and Johnson alternates between quarterback and fullback.
Titans Down Tech 
In Initial Game
Albright Lions 
Are Next Team 
To Meet Tech
and Jack Killiany, two outstanding 
sophomore campaigners of last fall. 
Last year’s line was somewhat weak 
due to little experience, which ex­
plains why the Breen-Kuldis com­
bination did hot work as well last 
year as in the 1939 season. Vic 
Gigli,, a junior, and sophomore Pat 
Nappi will be used in the signal 
calling post.
William H. “Lone Star” Dietz 
has been at Albright as head foot­
ball coach and director of intercol­
legiate athletics for four years. He 
has been very successful on the 
gridiron with a new razzle-dazzle 
method of play, winning 21 games 
and losing 14 in his four years at 
the head of the Lion footballers.
This is the outfit that the Tar­
tans go to face this week, and 1 
know the whole school joins with 
me in wishing them the best of 
luck.
Last Saturday Tech opened its 
season with what the downtown 
papers consider the crowning defeat 
of the Tartan’s football history. This 
may be true as far as the game 
looked on paper, but there were 
several features about the game 
that took some of the sting out of 
this seemingly ignominious defeat. 
One of these is the fact that the 
ball handling was smooth. It is 
true that there were six fumbles 
during the four quarters, but the 
general timing of the backfield was 
an improvement over last year’s 
team. If Tech’s line had held so 
that the backfield could have a lit­
tle more time, Tech would have 
won easily last Saturday. As it 
was, few end runs were tried, be­
cause of the fact that the Titans 
were in Tech’s backfield before 
the Tartan ball carrier could get 
started. It isn’t too much to hope 
that Carnegie's line will strengthen 
as the season progresses.
This week, the Skibo gridders 
play Albright at Reading, Pa. The 
Lions have the smallest squad that 
Coach William Dietz has had in five 
years, but only four of last year’s 
starters were graduated in June. 
Dietz has six veteran backs to' rely 
on this season, but little weight in 
this section of the squad. Conse­
quently he has to depend on speed 
and deception, and a wide open of­
fense.
Albright has a mature team in 
that most of the members are jun­
iors and seniors. There are nine 
seniors, twelve juniors, and only 
seven sophomores. In the end posi­
tions for. the. Albright club, will be 
Spangler and Bertino, both veter­
ans who have shown their ability 
in past seasons. The tackle divi­
sion of the Lion’s team is hard hit 
this year because of the gradua­
tion of Tom Johnson, last year’s 
captain. Even this deficiency is com­
pensated by the return of two letter 
men from the 1940 team. This to­
gether with the new-comers, Herb 
Derr and Sid Disend, should fill 
this- position admirably. Plaskonos 
and Harpster will probably be the 
starters in the Tackle positions. The 
guard berths will be filled by two 
letter men, Dick Weber and Tom 
Lubin. This position will be some­
what heavier than last year’s outfit. 
The centers were and still are the 
weakest part of the Lion’s team. 
Dietz was unfortunate in losing one 
of the most brilliant prospects so 
that several shifts have been made 
necessary. For the time being, Sam 
Cocodrilli and Paul Michaels are in 
the starting positions.
The Albright backfield is the 
strongest section of their squad, 
since the personnel in this section 
is practically the same as during 
the 1940 season. Six veterans are 
returning this year to serve as ball- 
toters. Jim Breen and Stan Kuklis, 
touchdown stars of two years ago 
will be competing with Bob Bennett
SEYYlH SlUCEN t4lNC: 
P3HC5 FULl wC tY5- h
Booters have their first game of the 
season with their greatest opposi­
tion, but the game should be a good 
indication of what the squad will 
be capable of doing in the future. 
There are prospects of a very suc­
cessful season since a large number 
of last years juniors are returning 
this year to bolster the squad. There 
were twenty-two varsity men re­
porting for practice last week with 
a large percentage of them seniors.
The .varsity schedule is as fol­
lows:
Sat., Oct. 4—Frostburj;
Teachers .............................(Here) 10 A. M.Fri., Oct. 10—Slippery
Rock ....................................(There)
Sat., Oct. 18—F. & M.........(Here) 10 A. M.
Fri., Oct. 24—Allegheny.. (There)
Fri.. Oct. 31—Oberlin.... (There)
Fri., Nov. 7—Grove City. (Here) 3:30 P. M.
The game this Saturday will be 
played on the field located at Mar­
garet Morrison and Forbes Streets. 
If you are interested in seeing an 
exciting soccer game, be sure to see 
this contest.
Skibo Booters Meet 
Frostburg Teachers
This coming Saturday the Car­
negie Tech Soccer team meets 
Frostburg State Teachers College 
for the Skibo’s first game of the 
season. The team, under the capa­
ble direction of Coach Pat O’Con­
nor, has been making fair progress 
since practices started over a week 
ago. The defense has been whip­
ped into shape and has been mak­
ing a fine showing. The front line, 
however, has lagged behind and 
needs some improvement before it 
will be capable of upholding it’s 
end on the field. One of last year’s 
soccer squad’s greatest difficulties 
was that of getting the ball past 
the goal. The team work was good 
until the ball came within a few 
feet of the goal, then the boys had 
great difficulty making the goal: 
therefore Coach O’Connor has been 
drilling the team more on the final 
thrust than anything else.
The game this Saturday should 
be a-drawing card to those who are 
interested in soccer since Frostburg 
State Teachers College is rated 
among the best in the vicinity. It is 
somewhat unfortunate that the Tech
Practice For Varsity 
Kille Team Under WayFTo DURGlH5o 
Vf4lY5C P UC5 
DUHH3lH ScTUM
The call for cross country was 
answered last week by a group, 
both veterans and newcomers, 
which shows prospects of complet­
ing a successful season. With the 
veterans Marcin and Sarantopolis as 
a nucleus around which to form the 
squad, bolstered by Pritchard, 
former Freshman miler, Duum, 
captain of the V. M. I. plebe cross 
country team,, and the rest of the 
candidates Tech should present a 
formidable' obstacle in the path of 
any opposing team’s desire for a 
victory. The squad of thin clads 
has already begun practice on the 
Schenley Park Course, but there is 
still an opportunity for any man 
who hopes to compete in cross 
country to report to Coach Hal­
ferty in the Gymnasium. Since the 
first meet is only two weeks away, 
any prospective candidates should 
immediately begin to train. There 
is a definite need of freshmen on 
the plebe squad. Perhaps, the ab­
sence of freshmen is due to the 
nearness of the call for. cross coun­
try to the beginning of classes. The 
freshmen are urged to come out 
for the team not only for the pur­
pose of competing in cross country 
but also to build up their endur­
ance and stamina in order that they 
may be better equipped to compete 
in track next spring. Cross coun­
try is one of the sports which should 
appeal to freshmen for, it involves 
little time at practice and yet gives 
the freshman a chance to earn his 
numerals.
The following varsity' cross coun-r 
try schedule has been announced:
Geneva at Tech—Friday, Octo­
ber. 17.
Slippery Rock at Tech—Friday, 
October 2$..
Bethany at Bethany—Friday, No­
vember 31.
Pitt at Tech — Friday, Novem­
ber 7.
While he was at army camp sev­
eral summers ago ho won a tro­
phy, and later as a member of the 
Carnoglo Rifle Team act a record 
at the U. S. Naval Academy of 890 
for Shoulder to «boulder shooting.
In the past Tech has had out­
standing rifle teams, and it Is our 
hope and belief that this year’s 
team will produce results equally as 
good. Weekly coached practices 
will be held, and the results of the 
last five will be used to determine 
the men for retention on the varsity 
team.
Alfred Parthum, Varsity Man­
ager, has made the following an­
nouncement: one senior, one junior, 
and two sophomores are needed as 
managers for the rifltf' tdaiti. Any­
one of those mentioned' Who is in­
terested’ should report immediately- 
to Sergeant Sommers at the FlelcT. 
House.
Rifle practice for the Varsity Rifle 
Team began Saturday, .September 
27, although matches will not be 
held until next semester. There are 
quite a few members of last year’s 
Varsity back with us again this 
year. These include Ritchey, Rath- 
bun (eapt.), Williams, Riley, Deit- 
rlch, Evans, Callendar, Reichneck- 
er, and Snyder, M. H.
Also, eleven sophomores from last 
year’s freshman squad are turning 
out to bolster Tech’s chances of 
onCe again capturing the Intercol­
legiate Rifle Championship. These 
sophomores are Walton, Beck, Bila, 
McIntyre, Etzel, Brunstetter, Olson, 
Lyon, Dickson, Warner, and Croop.
In .1939 Harold Greene and Russ 
McMillen were named first and sec­
ond respectively on the All-Ameri­
can Intercollegiate Rifie Teams.
Greene has been one of the best 
marksmen Tech has ever had.
NOTICE
Mr. Eyman has announced that 
HCC students who are interested in 
the wrestling team report to the 
gym at 4:30, Wednesday, October 1.
DY Parker's Jjrjlj
BLUE DIAMOND Mif/
Dllo Tl
with a Third More Ink
TGHI Hc35HL3 ld TG533 j3CCa.IljI 
EH0aTkF3 F3IE, AO3 Tl gH5.35hQ FHT3IT3A 
MI3aNHIA VH0C3HE WH0OoHTU0 RUCC35
> GUARANTEED LIFE CONTRACT
Try yourself on this Quiz:
1. What Pen has, and always has had, the Clip that’s 
right at the top, thus hold» it low and unexpoaed in 
the pocket?—trimmest for civilian dress and uniforms.
2. What Pen has tho“Ono-Hand” SACU5SS Killor, mnk- 
ing room to SUPER-CHARGE with a third more ink ?
3. What Pen has the lubricated Point of 14 K non- 
brittlo Gold, tipped with “oil-smooth” Osmiridium, 
that won't wear scratchy aa long ao you live?
4. What Pen hus the TELEVISION barrel that 
SHOWS when to refill?
5. What Pen is styled of shimmering Pearl and Jet 
RINGS — voted the winner of the beauty contest by 
men and girls alike?
College men and women must know all' the answers 
because you buy moro Parkers than any other make.
Well, see these latest und most attractive Parkers for 
school priced at $2.95 ami $3.95 for the Parker Duofold, 
$5, $8.75 and $10 for the Parker Vacumatic. Don’t muke 
the mistake of buying ANY until you’ve tried Parker's, 
One-Hand Filler. com. i»4i,iit* mmm nx go.
The Parker Pen Company, Junenvllle, Wiuconuln
KEEP THE 
APPLE SHINY 
uMt 
YOUR PANTS
FORBES 
CLEANERS
Corner Craig and Forbes
No Cramming Necessary!
For swell flavor and 
real chewing fun-the 
answer is delicious 
Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum
K fAoalmo, flO 
Mo|or (lllus.) or 
DobUanfo, *0.73 
Junior or Sub-Dab, ?3 
Wrlloflno PonclU
lo mol di, *3.73 to *3
Pnrkrr'n nine Diamond' on the pen In our Life Contract, ime-orniliIon- «illy Gunrunlcclnc to nervlce the pen tor Uio llle of the owner except, lor lonn und Intentional «lamage. nubjcctonly Gzil mU5n i-lmr«!: for pont-
Parkor Qu/nir, >ho amailng mw pon-cloanlng Ink, 13/

---------------------------------------------------

HALFTONES, ETCHINGS. COLO« PROCESS 
ENGRAVINGS REPRODUCED FROM PHOTO- 
•CRAPKS. DRAWINGS. OIL PAIHTINGS AMO 
ILLUSTRATIONS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
It SrwBV ybrVS 
Pty SarVp
LIBERTY
ENGRAVING
COMPAN*
rort Pin is the Place 
to Buy 
TYPEWRITERS
TERMS 
EASY
They’re a 
great bar­
gain! Stop 
and see 
them!
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATIantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
s- S- VB­aI
PRINTER
A,l jR3MG LR“ oET .ETRM EHM3NUH3Ro mTo 5,3C 5lHL 
,Uj mllN MHUG5lM GEH IU53ENUR BEGlNCl- SEHHo” 35 YUNv5 
mE ,lR4lM- aR5,ET1, .l ,Uel 3NYHlUClM ETH 4HlMTY0 
53EN 5HlLlNMETCRo 5,l BlGlLl dHE1HUL ’53RR UmCEHmU 
LEHl HTRlC 5,UN .l YUN LUQl H31,5 NE.- 9T5 .l UHl 
W53RR 3NYHlUC3N1 4HEMTY53EN- u35,3N GETH LEN5,C” oETH 
WR3Ml HTRl .3RR mU HlUMo GEH oET ---
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN ________________________________ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER SO, 1941
6470 Monitor St.HA. 0193
but weil lend you one !
­lUN.,3Rl” .l ,Uel GETNM U .Uo ET5- AE Lll5 5,3C 
5lL4EHUHo lLlH1lNYo .l ,Uel LUMl U cTUN535o EG 
LU5“ 4HEMTY53EN CR3Ml HTGlC 5,U5 .3RR 53Ml0olT EelH 
TN53R oETH C5UNMUHM HTRlC UHl HlUMo- A,l““ HTRlC UHl 
NE5 GEH CURl- ul .3RR RlNM oET ENl T4EN 5,E Ml4EC35 
EG tNE BERRUH--- UNM 13el oET U GTRR 5HUMl03N URRE.z
UNYl .,lN oETH C5UNMUHM HTRl 3C HlUMo- IE Y,UH1l 
GEH .lUH UNM 5lUH- bCE 5,3C C4lY3UR HTRl -.35, ETH 
YEL4R3LEN5C UC REN1 UC 5,l lLlH1lNYo RUC5CJ 2ETH 
YUL4TC mEEQC5EHl ,UC x'V qREUNEM0EN0MN4EC35• 
CR3Ml HTRlC 3N C5EYQ GEH 3LLlM3U5E MlR3elHo-
KEUFFEL 6* ESSER CO.
Fhayogo 1867
Slipstick Fantasy ...
Sitting in front of the Hut the 
other day, I was startled to wee 
three brown crisp leaves fall to the 
ground. The tree from which they 
fell was still summery in its green 
appearance,. and only a few of its 
leaves were wearing the early fall 
shades. The three harbingers did 
not float lazily (which is the class­
ical method for falling leaves), but 
they fell suddenly; and as they 
flashed in and out of view, I rea­
lized that summer’s successor was 
on the scene. Nostalgia overcame 
me as I sat in the porch sunshine, 
and I thought of the season just 
gone. This was going to be a sum­
mer in which I was to do a lot of 
readirig . . . one vacation that was 
not to be wasted. Three whole 
months of which I intended to de­
vote all my spare time to earnest 
work. But-now it’s over and .gone, 
and the hopes i had for it only 
accentuate my loss. Not that I let 
the whole time slip through my 
fingers; 1 did get started on my 
purposeful labors, but I feel a 
futility prompted by the thought 
of the possibilities unexhausted. 
There is always one more summer, 
but I’m not sure that this one 
won’t be duplicated.
It’s Sabotage
A voter in iVlunhall picked eight 
Pirate ball players as his choices 
for the judicial bench. It is only 
lately that an appreciation of these 
talented sportsmen has come about. 
First there were the St. Louis Mud- 
cats. Five musically inclined slug­
gers set to the tympani of a wash­
board. Just recently the Cincin­
nati Reds let their artistic tem- 
perments run riot and had to be 
assuaged with psychological, en­
treaties. But no one before has 
ever realized the judicial abilities 
of a ball player, and I’m proud to 
say that it was first recognized in 
our neighbors, the Pirates. The 
legal training of a ball player is 
no mean accomplishment. Their 
oratory is developed in arguing with 
the umpires and with each other. 
Think of the simplification in ter­
minology that would result in hav­
ing a Bucco hand down a decision. 
‘And you couldn’t get a better man 
to call the close ones. I think, 
however, that they would refuse to 
serve unless drafted, for ball play­
ers have always had an aversion to 
sitting on. the bench.
My pronunciation of German is 
almost as bad as that of English. I 
had no trouble at all with the vo­
cabulary or even with the difficult 
cases of the alien tongue, but I 
blush when I think of the sounds 
I've added to the over-expanded 
language. The teacher says that 
German is spoken gutterally. She 
proceeds calmly to Illustrate and 
then asks tho class to repeat the 
grunts. Overconfidently I mouth a 
sweetly sounding term. My every 
attempt' 1» punctuated with a weak 
.‘.•mile and correction from the 
teacher. I can write the stulV, how­
ever, and should I need It in my 
travels libroad 1 could play dumb 
.•ind scribble everything.
Purely Psychological
Kenneth Wolf, aged ton, was en­
rolled last week at Western Re­
serve University. Chemistry seems 
to be his forte and this is the only 
¦class he will attend. Ken has never 
gone to school before. An item 
like this, makes me wonder why I 
spent so much time in grade and 
high schools. If a ten-year old can 
get into college without any pre­
vious schooling, why did I have 
to pass an entrance exam Be­
sides I was more than ten at the 
,time. I think this calls for a Dies 
Committee investigation of Western 
Reserve.
Dr. B. Von Haller Gilmer en­
tertained his class in Social Rela­
tions last week with ERPI movies. 
,Many expansions of “Erpi” pre­
sented themselves to the class, but 
.the prof. quickly dispelled them 
with the real name which I don’t 
remember. One reel demonstrated 
sensations, and the effect of stimuli 
on various nerves. We were all 
hepped up and ready to dash out 
,for a “case,” when a picture of a 
moron flashed on the screen, and 
we all shrank back into our seats 
self-consciously. Or perhaps I was 
the only self-conscious person, for 
(.he others were staring around as 
though they were comparing. I 
keep trying to build up reassur­
ance by telling myself that ;I got 
into Tech, but then the stories like 
that of the ten-year old' pops up. 
Surely, I have a mind better than 
t ten-year old but I suppose he'does 
too, which makes it all the more 
confusing. Getting back to the 
movie, I was properly impressed 
with the complexity of the nervous 
system, and won’t henceforth con­
sider courses in nervous disorders 
synapses.
Rise and Shine
Charlie, the little lad who runs 
the chemical store-room, is still 
catching people with his electric 
brick. He hands you an innocent 
looking package to deliver and 
zowie; as soon as you contact it 
anywhere from three hundred to 
,27,000 volts run through you. He 
.is working oh an idea now'to wire 
the seats of the chemistry lecture 
room to stimulate anyone who 
gives the shocking exhibition of 
falling asleep.
Styles this year in girls’ apparel 
pre just as silly as they ever were. 
Bangles, doodads, and fancy pins 
are still part of milady’s attire. The 
pld entertainment offered by street 
par ads has been replaced by the 
/nodel-like statuettes that ride the 
streamlined freight. With decorat­
ed Angers, arms, ears, and shoes 
Jhese bejingled women climb 
aboard and immediately become 
the center of attraction. If you 
have ever examined an armchair 
you have probably run across a va­
riety of objects that could not 
even be found in museums. Models 
and miniatures grace the bracelets, 
pnd I’m sure the modern girl 
would feel undressed were she to 
pppear in public without them. Just 
as the girls were about to give up 
knitting as a fad, the war started 
And knitting for Britain began. 
Clicking needles can be observed 
on almost any street corner these 
days. I’m going to begin a move­
ment of knitting for me. Any­
one who wants to get in on it 
should sign the subscription that 
will circulate next week.
A,3C5Rl d3lC ---
SlITUIO3A d5lo FHL3 J
8:80 Qnmmn I’lil HI it mu
1'lndnmi ...........................Student Unionill'll) Klip |m fill Drill!
Iiloilffmi ...........................Student Union
8:50 lutriwiiui'i!l lliiiird .... Student Union
l:oo Kiltie Hand ......................Student Union
1:10 Dormitory Counell___Student Union
1:20 Women’ll Athletic
ANNOolntlon ....................Student Union
Sunday, October 26
• :'*0 V. M. (!. A......................Student Union
1:10 Y. W. C. A......................Student Union
1:50 Tnrlun Stuir ..................Student Union
3¡00 Thistle Stuir ..................Student Union
2:10 Technical StulT.................Student Union
2:20 Soottle StulT ...................Student Union
2:110 Trl Pub Stuff...................Student Union
2:10 Dorm ling piper Stuff... Student Union
2:50 Women's Glee Club. . . .Student Union
8:00 Scotch and Soda...............Student Union8:10 intcrhonorary
. Council ...........................Student Union
8:20 Men's Glee Club.............Student Union
Council Minnies
The meeting was called to order 
at 7:15 p. m.
Absent: Messers. Wines and
Shat/., and Miss Jones.
Committee Reports:
Financial
Mr. Hill reported that the financial 
booklets hod been published and could be 
obtained by everyone-after tho ••'meeting.
Elections
Mr. Durbin reported that petitions for 
the coming elections are due at 4 p. m., 
Friday, September 20. The election will 
be on Tuesday, September 30. Mr. Rich­
ardson asked Mr. Durbin to schedule the 
Freshman elections for some time before 
October 24, In order that the Freshmen 
may go ahead with arrangements for the 
Freshman Dance.
Budget
Mr. McBride presented the budget for 
the Kiltie Band and moved for its ap­
proval.
Motion carried.
Mr, McBride read the budget of the 1042 
THISTLE to Council.
The staff agrees to pay no salaries until 
February so that they will know whether 
the sales are going all right. They pro­
pose to sell the THISTLE for $2 this year. 
He moved that the budget be accepted.
Motion carried.
Fall Carnival
Mr. Bosak announced that the tickets 
for Fall Carnival will be $2.50 Instead of 
S2.00 as stated in the TARTAN. There will 
be a soap-box derby held on Saturday 
afternoon.
All contestants are limited to an expense 
of SO; there will be an entry fee of 50c: 
and there will be a prize for the winner.
Assemblies
Mr. Satterfield said that he had talked 
to Dr. Schultz and had got Mr. Elklnton for 
the speaker on September 30. He asked 
that tills first chapel program be given 
publicity in the TARTAN. He also asked 
for Information as to the type of programs 
the students want.
Mr. Richardson suggested that he con­
duct a poll in the TARTAN to get stu­
dent opinions on this matter. He asked 
that all of Council come to chapel this 
Tuesday because the program Is being sponsored by Council.
New Business
Mr. Durbin said that the CUT would 
like to have a fairer advertising agreement 
than the one they had last year. He said 
that he had letters to show that the mer­
chants of Pittsburgh would, advertise in this paper.
Mr. Ellis said that the old agreement 
with the TARTAN had expired and that 
no publication could exist without adver­
tising or an appropriation from the school. 
The staff would like to continue publish­
ing the CUT. and they feel that many stu­
dents would like to have it on campus. 
He asked for a “hands off” agreement with 
the TARTAN. The CUT staff Is willing to 
get its own advertising and feels that the 
TARTAN could stand the competition.
Mr. Richardson s.tated that the only thing 
Council could do would be to make a 
recommendation to the Publications Com­
mittee that the CUT be given a new agree­
ment, if Council is in accord with the de­
sire of the CUT. Mr. Burton said that the 
CUT'S agreement was really with Council. 
Mr. Miller asked why the agreement had 
been entered into last year. Mr. Davis 
explained that the TARTAN and the 
SCOTTIE had been opposed to the CUT 
and (lie only way the CUT could get recog­
nition from Council was to sign the agree­
ment with these two publicatións to re­
strict Its advertising.
Mr. Durbin moVed’ that Student Council 
make a resolution that the past policy of 
the CUT be reconsidered and a new agree­
ment be drawn up between the CUT and 
the other publications on campus concern­ing advertising.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
BlGlNCl---
SlITUIO3A d5lo FHL3 J 
for the two schools is here at Tech 
under the supervision of Mr. Grau. 
All registration will take place at 
the same time and' place in courses 
at Tech, Pitt, or Penn State. Car­
negie’s classes will be held in the 
engineering school here; Pitt will 
hold theirs in their engineering 
school on the campus in Oakland 
and will also sponsor classes at the 
Westinghouse Technical Night 
School in East Pittsburgh; Penn 
State will use the facilities at P. 
C. W. and a number of high schools.
Due to the need in the near fu­
ture of additional ordnance inspec­
tors, Tech has begun classes in 
special courses designed to train 
men for this work. Registration 
for this was held last week; classes 
began yesterday. It is a six day 
a week, six weeks’ course and is 
offered under the Tech defense 
training program. Major Stanton is 
in charge of the program here, and 
he expects a large enrollment of 
defense students. * Most courses 
have limited facilities, and it is ad­
visable to register as early as possi­
ble.
Rushingg---
SlITUIO3A d5lo FHL3 J
the Institute Eligibility Rules.
8. If a pledge withdraws from, 
or is dropped by a sorority, she may 
not be pledged by another in the 
same year.
Any violation of these rules shall 
be considered sufficient grounds for 
action, by the Council against the 
offending-members. - Fine for any • 
violation shall not exceed twenty- 
five dollars.
Cpprrijhi 1911, Liccerr & Mrns Tbucco Co*
Everywhere you go
iULGT D3LUET35 
Rl5 4 mHET35E 
sTU Vl0UHC Pl5.
Eight students have registered for 
programs which will lead to the de­
gree of Master of Social Work in 
June, 1942. Two of these hold the 
degree of B. S. S. S. from the de­
partment, and two received the de­
gree of B. S. S. W. in earlier years. 
One student, George Landsman, 
who should have been among this 
number did not return as he was 
drafted and is now in the 65th Pur­
suit Squadron, 6th Air Corps, 
Windstor Locks Air Base, Connect­
icut.
Of the student entering the grad­
uate department this year, two re­
ceived the degree of B. S. S. S. last 
June and five have entered from 
other colleges, including Carleton 
College, College of the City of New 
York, Pennsylvania College for 
Women, Mt. Mercy, and University 
of Pittsburgh.
Departmental assistanceships 
were awarded to Juliette Deutil- 
baum, B. A. from University of 
Pittsburgh and Jewell Duncan B. 
S. S. S. of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology; maintenance fellow­
ships offered by Women State Hos­
pital were awarded to Mangeny 
Taylor, B. S. S. W. of C. I. T. and 
Frances Seibert, M. A. Teachers 
College, Columbia University; Soho 
Community House Fellowship was 
awarded to Sidney Posin, B. S. from 
College of the City of New York.
A new opportunity in field work 
is offered this year by the Pitts­
burgh Housing Authority. A sec­
ond year student, Robert Haas, is 
placed in Terrace Village II B for 
an assignment in Administration 
and Community Relations.
The field work of second year 
students in research which is car­
ried on at the Bureau of Social Re­
search, Federation of Social Agen­
cies, will be under the supervision 
of Joseph Zarefsky, ’39, M. S. W. 
from C. I. T.
A. P. O. Meets 
To Plan Rushing
There will be an Alpha Phi Ome­
ga meeting on Wednesday at 4:30 
in room 235 B of Industries Hall. 
The purpose of the meeting will be 
to discuss the fall rushing , season. 
The first event of the rushing pro­
gram will be a smoker to be held 
on Thursday evening, October 9, 
at the Student Union at 8:00 P. M. 
At the smoker Max Hannum will 
show mpving pictures of the Tech- 
Westminister game. Following this 
there will be two additional smokers 
and then the initiation and formal 
banquet on November 9. AU stu­
dents who are interested in A. P. O. 
are cordially invited to attend 
these functions.
To the uninitiated, Alpha Phi 
Omega is the national Scouting fra­
ternity. whose purpose is to carry 
out various service . functions 
throughout the school. The society 
is strictly a non-rsecret service group 
open to any student who has at 
some time been a registered Boy 
Scout.
Newman Club 
Holds Mixer Dance
This Saturday in Thistle Hall at 
nine o’clock the Newman Club is 
sponsoring a Registration Dance. 
The music will be supplied by Fran 
Eichler’s Band, a popular favorite. 
Such a dance is held every year at 
this time as a “mixer” to introduce 
new members to old ones, as well 
as to enable fellows and girls from, 
¦ the Pgh. collegës to get together. 
They have announced that this year 
everyone will come stag, with the 
small admission price of fifty cents 
applicable later to the club dues.
UNM w8RR 13el oET mUYQ k< ClYENMC
Says L5YE ,VYUE5IP
well-known radio announcer
Cum Grano 
Salis
By Dave Nenss
Why am I going to college? It 
is highly improbable that any stu­
dent has ever asked himself this 
question because the answer is too 
ppparent. After reading that first 
sentence you probably expect me 
.to inform you that your going to 
college should consist of a broader 
outlook than just “to become an 
electrical engineer—or an architect 
—or a printer.” But I’m not, for 
.that is also quite evident, even to 
the most sottish of our lot.
What I’m trying to narrow this 
column down to is precisely this: 
college is a place where you should, 
above all, learn how to fit into the 
machinery of democracy and the 
best way to do this is by exercis­
ing your opinions. I don’t mean 
to be sensational, but the bottle­
neck at Tech is the lack of a place 
better than the Skibo or Doc Ross’ 
Social Relations classes in which 
.to express opinions.
This column is hereby dedicat­
ed to the student of unlistened-to 
opinions. Its aim is to be a con­
census of opinions on subjects such 
as “Do we want Saturday classes?” 
“Subsidation of intercollegiate 
sports” and “The way we want 
Tech coeds to wear their hair.” And 
ust as a precautionary matter, no­
tice is now given that everything 
printed herein is to be taken cum 
grano salis—with grain of salt.
Somebody whistles a few bars of a catchy tune.i 
Others pick it up.
Soon the whole country’s whistling it.
It's a hit.
Somebody lights up a cigarette.
Likes it. Passes the word along.
Soon the whole country’s smoking it.
It’s a hit. IT'S CHESTERFIELD.
The big thing that’s pushing Chesterfield ahead 
Is the approval of smokers like yourself. 
Chesterfields are definitely Milder,
Cooler-Smoking and Better-Tasting.
They’re made of the world’s best 
cigarette tobaccos 
Blended just right to give you more smoking pleasure.
But even these facts wouldn’t count 
If smokers didn’t just naturally like them.
Once a smoker finds out from Chesterfield 
What real smoking pleasure is, nothing else will do., 
23Ef d3CClj Eol.35Ef sthV 2M,D 4ggDMW4v 
tN4thV g,VNsu’ SNiVtiDRsive 4Ni4en
