/y , *
Æ’cf ¦THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 January 1994
Tudor, Carol hit by
burglar over break
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Residents of Tudor Hall and Carol 
Apartments got an unpleasant sur­
prise during the holiday break.
Ten rooms in Carol and five rooms 
in Tudor were broken into over a pe­
riod of three to four days, and approxi­
mately 40 residents suffered some loss.
Dave Potter, assistant director of 
housing for administration, said that 
the apartments were entered by force. 
“In Carol, the perpetrator circum- 
¦ vented an alarm system on the fire 
escape,” he said. “He forced his way in. 
The point of en­
try was a secu­
rity window.”
The break-ins 
began on De­
cember 27, with 
successive inci­
dents on De- __________________
cember 29 and MMJgBBgWmliiin —I 
30.
“After the inital burglary, Campus 
Police increased the patrol of the build­
ing, posted a guard inside sporadi­
cally, and cooperated with Pittsburgh 
PolicN to stake out .the building,” said 
Pottel*. V. •
“As a result of these burglaries, we 
were working with Pittsburgh Police^ 
Night Felony Squad to set up sui^eil-' 
lance,” said Campus Police Chief Jim 
LaPaglia. ‘'They arrested the man who 
burglarized the building.”
On December 30, a suspect was 
caught by Pittsburgh Police leaving 
Carol. He was released on January 4,
ready been arrested.”
“In the majority of cases, larger items 
were lefb intact,” Potter said. “In a 
couple of cases, a stereo, an electric 
guitar, and other larger items were 
taken.”
Brockett Horne, a sophomore 
graphic design major, and RA for 
Carol, said that residents in the build­
ing were giving her itemized lists of 
what was missing from their rooms, 
and individual losses had ranged from 
$l,600to $3,000. Horne saidthatitems 
stolen ranged from shoes and jewelry 
to compact discs, televisions, video 
cassette recorders, and money.
------------------------------- Horne es­
timated that 
losses would 
be greater 
than $15,- 
000.
“Dave Pot-
____________________ ter called us
on the 28th,” 
said Chuck 
Su, a senior electrical engineering 
major. Su said he was missing a ste­
reo, an answering machine, and other 
items.
“We’re still finding tilings missing,” 
said Su.
“I’m fairly pissed off about this en­
tire thing,” Su said. “I assumed that 
stuff this bad wasn’t going to happen.”
Su said that every apartment on his 
floor in Tudor Hall was broken into. 
“[Housing] told us to claim the losses 
on our homeowners’ insurance,” said 
Su, but he had recently had a cl aim on 
that policy, and said that his rates
“I assumed that things 
this had weren’t going to 
happen
—Chuck Su, ECE senior
and theibllowing day, there was an- would be raised if he made another 
other break-in. The suspect was iden- claim.
tified as Yancey Murphy, 23, of Pitts­
burgh.
“He was locked up in the county jail, 
and we had no further problems until 
he was released,” said LaPaglia. “We 
believe that he came back and bur­
glarized the building after he had al-
“Wliat we have instructed sudents 
to do is to file a claim with their 
homeowners’ insurance at home,” Pot­
ter said. “We will be speaking with 
students soon, and there may be an­
other or an additional response that 
Pleasesee THEFTS, page 3
Rotunda nears completion
Necessary year-long repairs cost $700,000
UPDATE
By JASON HEINLEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The renovation of the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Building rotunda is 
near completion. Tom Murphy, director 
of facilities planning and construction, 
predicts that all of the scaffolding will be 
removed by early this week.
This will complete the year-long 
$700,000 project to replace the ornately 
designed terra cotta blocks that made 
up the top of the rotunda with a special 
high grade pre-cast concrete.
The original terra cotta was beginning 
to crumble and pieces began falling off. 
Since the terra cotta is load bearing, 
there was a danger of the “structural
In" “ coi- CONSTRUCTION
lapse of the 
rotunda, 
said Mur- 
phy.
The orig­
inal terra 
cotta was 
removed 
and given 
to a com-
Con who made plaster molds of the origi­
nal pieces and reproduced the originals 
into precast concrete slabs weighing up 
to several hundred pounds.
The choice of material to replace the 
terra cotta was given much consider­
ation. The material had to be strong 
enough to hold together under the weight 
of the rotunda, but it also must last and 
be practical.
According co UniVersity Arciiitect, PauT 
Tellers, terra cotta was widely used in 
the early 1900s when the rotunda was 
constructed. Today, however, the pro­
cess of producing terra cotta in a kiln is 
very labor intensive and does not give a 
lasting or consistent final product.
The next consideration according to 
Tellers was the use of fiberglass, but 
because of the weight that these pieces
Andrew Flores/Tartan Photographer 
The scaffolding is finally coming down from the Margaret Morrison rotunda.
must support, it was not feasible.v;Fi- 
nally, it was decided that pre-cast coiT- 
crete was the best choice. Tellers said 
that weather tests were done on samples 
of concrete and it was determined that 
the material would last for more than a 
century.
They have added new windows and a 
small addition to the top of the rotunda, 
and in the future, the university may 
add handicapped accessible entrances
to Margaret Morrison.
O therwise, it has not been changed 
and looks just as it did when it (w£s 
designed by the university’s first archi­
tect, Henry Hornbostel, who was also 
the responsible for Porter Hall, Baker 
Hall, and the Gymnasium.
There has been some controversy in 
the past about the wording inscribed in 
the rotunda. The rotunda reads, “To 
Please see MAGGIE MO, page 3
Housing okays microwave usage
By JESSICA FANG
Tartan Staffwriter
The Housing Office h'as_ ap­
proved the use of microwave ov­
ens in dorm, rooms. A formal 
proposal was submitted to the 
Housing Office by Laurie Model! 
and Eric Larson, representatives 
of SDC, on September 17. The 
proposal covered many points: the 
history of the microwave policy, 
the rationale of the microwave 
policy, and evidence of the ben­
efits of changing the microwave 
policy. A petition of six hundred 
signatures supporting the change 
in policy was also included in the 
proposal.
On January 10, during winter 
training, RAs were given memos 
t° post on residents’ doors re­
garding the new policy. Resi­
dents are advised to use compact 
microwaves with a power capac­
ity of six hundred watts or less. 
They are also asked to let the RAs 
know when they have a micro­
wave in the room. This is to 
ensure that if electrical problems 
arise, it will be easier to isolate 
and track down the difficulty.
“This is not to police them,” 
says Scott Curtin, president of 
SDC, “but to keep track of energy 
usage.”
The policy change began to take 
place when Modell and Larson 
presented the formal proposal to 
housing. Amy Ginther, assistant 
director of housing for operations, 
formed a committee consisting of 
Tim Foster, assistant director of 
housing for residence life, and
Dave Potter, assistant director of 
housing for administration, to 
consider the proposal.
“We consulted with people who 
we felt were knowledgeable on 
the subject,” says Potter.
These included Facilities Man­
agement Services, head engineers 
and electricians. Michael Mur­
phy, dean of Student Affairs, évas 
also consulted.
The previous concern had been 
whether or not the dorm build­
ings could withstand the electric 
power drains that microwaves 
take. Also, the drains in dorm 
buildings were not made for food 
items to be flushed down them 
which could cause plumbing prob- 
lems.
Tom LaMonica, public relations
Please see MICROWAVES, page 3
• Campus notables tell how to
/] ¦ beat the winter blahs.
< \\V\ I // See page LI
YvTyVvVI//
v // • Swim team sweeps Hiram
In-; ¦ ; College.
J!\l : / See page 7
• The Chickens are Restless. It’s 
a best-seller. We kid you not.
See page L6
• Columnist cries out the against 
balanced budget amendment.
Inside See page 4
Classifieds............................9 • Two Tartan football players
Comics..................see insert receive national kudos.
Diversions........................L5 See page 7
Features.............................LI
Porum..................................4 • Intercity kids get someone to
Sp°rts....................................7 look up to with role-model pro-
Calendar............................L8 gram.
Vox Populi........................L8 See page L3
© 1993 Touchstone Pictures
Review: Give Monty the bum's 
Rush. Please see page L5.
Dramat dies after collapse
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
Freshman drama student Seth M. Newton, 18, 
died of undetermined causes on December 27 
after collapsing earlier that day at his parents’ 
home in the Philadelphia suburb of Ardmore.
Although it had been speculated that Newton 
suffered a heart attack, the exact cause of death 
is unclear, said Montgomery County Coroner 
Halbert Fillinger. “There was no demonstrable 
cause of death. It is not a 
classic heart attack. There 
was no history of heart dis­
ease,” said Fillinger, who said 
he expects to have more in­
formation in two weeks when 
laboratory tests are com­
pleted.
Amul Kumar, a former 
drama student who was a 
good friend of Newton, said 
he didn’t think Newton died 
of heart failure. “Seth [New­
ton] did not die from a heart 
attack. In simplest terms, he 
died of shock,” he said.
Kumar believes Newton’s 
death was related to an illness he suffered from 
last semester. “Around Parents’ Day weekend, 
he had an attack of some sort. He was completely man drama students]. It brought out the strong 
paralyzed from the neck down and was nau- love for everyone in the class—about 60 people, 
seous,” said Kumar. According to Kumar and It made us realize the value of one another and 
friends from Ardmore, he died last month after the value of the gift of life,” said Noth. 
experiencing a similar attack. Newton’s interest in acting began during his
Lynne Innerst, a drama department lecturer freshman year at Haverford High School. He 
who was Newton’s voice instructor, confirmed was extremely active in theater during high
Drama freshman Seth Newton
cious and honorable way. The one thing I’ve been 
struck by most is how other students have real­
ized that it’s really hard work and really chal­
lenging, but they get to stay here. They get to 
live. The death of a friend made them realize 
how lucky they are,” said Innerst.
His mother, Patricia Newton, said the main 
reason her son came to Carnegie Mellon was 
because of the excellent drama program. “He 
really loved being on stage. It grabbed him,” she 
said. In the 1930s, his grandparents ran their 
own acting company called 
the Arthur Gayle Players.
She said her son was “prob­
ably one of the most energetic 
people you’d ever meet. He 
loved life and he loved people.” 
Vince Noth, a freshman 
drama student and Newton’s 
roommate, said “Seth [New­
ton] was very charged. He 
was the most energetic per­
son I’ve ever met. If he wanted 
to tell you something, he’d 
make it sound like the most 
important thing in the world. 
When he was talking to you, 
energy would fly towards you 
through his story.”
“His death really unified the class [of fresh-
that he missed a few days of class last semester. 
“He couldn’t come to class because he had a weird 
flu and couldn’t move his arms or legs. I didn’t 
think anything about it then,” she said.
Innerst said his death is a terrible loss to the 
university. “Seth [Newton] was an incredible 
individual. He had a lovely unselfconsciousness 
about him. He was vibrant and alive,” she said.
“I was struck by the level of concern from the 
rest of the university. There was a real sense of 
community. Everyone has responded in a gra-
school, playing leading roles in Fiddler on the 
Roof, Grease, and The Sound of Music, among 
other shows.
In addition to being involved in his high school’s 
theater program, he sang with the Haverford 
Chamber Singers and the school choir, in which 
he often did solo performances. He played the 
French horn in the high school orchestra and 
band.
He was involved in the chess and science 
Please see NEWTON, page 3
Y

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 1994
THIS JUST INIM
Clinton honors purge victims in Belarus
GENEVA, Switzerland, January 15 
(LAT-WP) — President Bill Clinton 
placed a memorial wreath on a mass 
burial ground of Stalin’s victims in a 
solemn visit that provoked opposition 
from Communists in the Belarus gov­
ernment and served as a reminder of 
a brutal past that still haunts the 
former Soviet Union.
The visit to Kuropaty, a memorial 
nine miles north of Minsk where the 
bodies of 40,000 victims of Josef 
Stalin’s purges were discovered in 
1988, ended Clinton’s tour of three 
former Soviet republics. From Minsk, 
he flew to Geneva for a planned meet­
ing Sunday with President Hafez 
Assad of Syria.
Communists in Belarus’ transi­
tional government asked the White 
House to cancel the visit to the burial 
ground and focus instead on the fu­
ture of the state, including aid needs. 
Clinton declined to cancel the visit, 
but compromised by making it at the 
end of the day.
Zenon Poznyak, a human rights ad­
vocate, expressed “irritation” with 
Clinton when the visit was delayed. 
Poznyak is the grandson of a victim of 
the purges in the 1930s, which histo­
rians estimate claimed 300,000 
Belarussians.
The President lauded Belarus’ deci­
sion to give up 76 nuclear arms inher­
ited from the Soviet Union. Belarus 
was the first former Soviet republic to
destroy its nuclear weapons. Kazakh­
stan recently agreed to give up its 
weapons as well.
Clinton’s tour of Minsk was a grim 
trip through history. Numerous in­
vaders have wiped their feet on Belarus 
before moving on to Russia.
In addition to Kuropaty, Clinton vis­
ited a monument to soldiers killed by 
the Nazis during World War II. Dur­
ing that war, 25 percent of Belarus’ 
residents died, and only recently has 
the republic’s population reached its 
pre-war levels.
“You are a new nation with an old 
history,” said Clinton in his speech, 
“During this century you have endured 
as much or more hardship as any 
people have ever known.”
Historians say that the Soviet secret 
police marched 250 victims at a time 
to a marsh near the city, forced them 
to dig their own graves, and then ex­
ecuted them.
At the site, the U.S. has donated two 
granite benches inscribed, in English 
and in Russian, “from the people of the 
United States to the people of Belarus, 
in remembrance.”
The dispute over Clinton’s visit un­
derlined the fragility of Belarus’ emer­
gence from communism. The economy 
is still centrally planned, private busi­
ness has developed slowly, and free 
elections have yet to be held. Among 
older residents, a yearning for the glory 
days of the U.S.S.R. seems to linger.
Officials hope skater will resign
WASHINGTON, January 15 (LAT- 
WP) — U.S. Olympic officials hope 
that national figure skating cham­
pion Tonya Harding, whose bodyguard 
has been arrested in the attack on 
rival skater Nancy Kerrigan, with­
draws from the upcoming Winter 
Games.
If she does not, officials will ask her 
to back out for the good of the team, 
informed sources said Friday.
Although Harding has not been 
charged in the case, NBC News has 
reported that her bodyguard, Shawn 
Eckhardt, has implicated her in the 
planning of the attack on Kerrigan.
The U.S. Figure Skating Associa­
tion said in a release that it would 
consider removing Harding from the 
Olympic team if she is charged.
There was discussion in Olympic
circles Friday about what might hap­
pen if both women represent the 
United States in Norway. While the 
U.S. Olympic Committee is looking 
into placing them into separate hous­
ing, they would still have to spend 
some time together.
Asked at a news conference how she 
felt about sharing the Olympic stage 
with Harding, Kerrigan said solemnly, 
“I have nothing to say to her.” Evy 
Scotvold, Kerrigan’s coach, says he is 
concerned about what might happen 
if the skaters room near each other.
There is also the matter of the com­
petition. It is purely conjecture at this 
point, but some sources feel that be­
cause of all of the negative publicity 
concerning Harding, she might not 
have much of a chance to win a medal 
in the games.
Aristide holds talks in Miami
MIAMI, January 15 (LAT-WP)—Try­
ing to revive dying efforts to restore 
democracy to Haiti, the government-in- 
exile ofPresidentJean-BertrandAristide 
Saturday opened a two-day conference 
that drew only a handful of opponents 
among several hundred participants.
Speaking to the opening session, 
Aristide complained that 28 months of 
negotiations have failed to restore his 
elected government to power. He blamed 
what he called the “violent and 
duplicitous” nature of the army rulers.
“Our time for deliverance has come,” 
he said, adding that he still hoped to 
return to Haiti soon.
Some skeptics have asserted that the 
Miami conference, which ends Sunday 
night, might be nothing more than a love 
feast of Aristide partisans.
Juliot Larosiliere, a Haitian senator 
and one of the few Aristide opponents to 
come here from Haiti, complained in an 
interview that Aristide should have in­
vited him to a private meeting. “He only 
wants to talk to the ones he always talks 
to,” said Larosiliere.
“I woke up this morning and said, ‘He 
will never change.’ ”
Menendez trial draws groupies
LOS ANGELES, January 15 (LAT- 
WP) — They’ve been called groupies, 
fanatics, and voyeurs. “People think 
we’re just these nutty girls who want to 
have sex with Erik and Lyle,” says one, 
shaking her head.
They’ve been sneered at by reporters, 
derided as gullible, pathetic hangers- 
on. But the Menendez watchers, an in­
formal, predominantly female club that 
meets most mornings at the Los Angeles 
County Superior Court in Van Nuys, 
hold their heads high.
Every high-profile trial has its looky- 
loos, especially when the charge is mur­
der. The killings of José and Kitty 
Menendez by their dark-haired sons have 
lured an unusual group to the drab court­
house hallways, hoping for a glimpse of 
the action.
Gender is one thing that sets these 
observers apart. Hard-core court watch­
ers usually tend to be men, often retir­
ees, who hop from trial to trial. But these 
loyal Menendez watchers are mostly 
women who have never been to a trial 
before.
Dominick Dunne, who is covering the 
trial for Vanity Fair, has a theory about 
what the attraction might be. “The fact 
that the defendants are young, hand­
some, and used to be rich has a certain 
appeal,” he said.
But not everybody’s buying the broth­
ers’ story. One woman said that she first 
greeted the brothers’ account with an 
open mind.
The more she’s heard, however, the 
less she’s been able to swallow. “Lyle? 
His testimony was ‘Laurence Olivier,’ ” 
she said, in a reference to the late stage 
actor. “Now, I think it’s a bunch of B.S.”
Israel optimistic about meeting
JERUSALEM, January 15 (LAT-WP)
— Israel expects positive signals for 
peace but no dramatic breakthroughs 
from President Bill Clinton’s meeting 
Sunday with Syrian President Hafez 
Assad.
The summit in Geneva is meant to 
restart the moribund peace talks be­
tween Syria and Israel, which ended 
abruptly after Israel and the Palestine 
Liberation Organization (PLO) disclosed 
last summer that they had been con­
ducting secret negotiations.
The PLO and Israel then signed an 
accord for limited Palestinian autonomy 
in September, an agreement that was 
criticized by Assad both for its content 
and for the clandestine nature of the 
negotiations that excluded Syria.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin 
cautiously predicted that Assad may ex­
press a “somewhat more flexible” vision 
of the kind of peace Syria is willing to 
offer Israel in exchange for the Golan 
Heights.
If he does, added Foreign Minister 
Shimon Peres, Israel will have to be 
ready to respond with its intentions re­
garding the Golan, captured from Syria 
in the 1967 Arab-Israeli War.
Assad has said that Israel must with­
draw completely from the plateau as 
well as from the West Bank and Gaza 
Strip, in exchange for peace. Israel has 
demanded to know what kind of peace 
Assad offers.
Aside from its importance to peace 
talks, the summit will give Clinton a 
chance to take the measure of Assad, the 
long-serving Syrian strongman who 
rarely travels outside the Middle East 
and had been accused over the past two 
decades of sponsoring terrorist activi­
ties.
For Syria, the meeting with Clinton 
lays another building block in the nor­
malization of relations with the United 
States. Long a military and economic 
client of the former Soviet Union, Assad 
foresaw the disintegration of his patron 
and joined the U.S.-led coalition against 
Iraq in 1990 and softened the anti-West- 
em rhetoric that had been a Syrian 
hallmark for years.
The negotiations would represent 
progress in a process stalled since the 
two sides came to an impasse a year ago.
Financial probe’s focus widens
LITTLE ROCK, Ark., January 14 
(LAT-WP)—The FBI has notified Betsey 
Wright, a senior aide to President Bill 
Clinton when he was governor of Arkan­
sas, that she will receive a grand jury 
subpoena in the expanding investiga­
tion of Clinton’s business dealings with 
the owner of a failed savings and loan, 
Wright acknowledged Friday.
The FBI also subpoenaed documents 
this week from a small savings and loan 
that helped finance Clinton’s 1984 gu­
bernatorial campaign with a $50,000 
loan to the President and his wife, Hillary 
Rodham Clinton.
The subpoenas are part of a wide- 
ranging federal investigation into ties 
between the Clintons and their former 
business partner, James B. McDougal, 
the owner of the now-defunct Madison 
Guaranty Savings & Loan in Little Rock.
Numerous questions have been raised 
about whether the Clintons and 
McDougal improperly benefited finan­
cially from the relationship, and Attor­
ney General Janet Reno is preparing to 
appoint a special prosecutor to investi­
gate the matter.
The primary focus of the investigation 
is the Whitewater Development Corpo­
ration, a partnership formed by the 
Clintons and McDougal in 1978 to de­
velop 200 acres of land in the Ozark 
Mountains. The Clintons have said that 
they lost $68,900 in the venture, but key 
records are apparently missing and FBI 
agents have been trying to reconstruct 
the finances of the project.
Among some of the questions investi­
gators hope to answer is whether 
McDougal received political favors in 
exchange for helping the Clintons pay 
off the loan. McDougal has told investi­
gators that he staged a fund-raiser in 
1985 to retire the debt.
Investigators apparently believe that 
Wright may be able to shed light on the 
loan issue. She attended the 1985 fund­
raiser as then-Govemor Clinton’s chief- 
of-staff and helped collect $35,000 to­
wards the loan repayment.
Although campaign laws require such 
contributions to be reported to the state, 
the list of contributors to the fund-raiser 
has disappeared and Wright says that 
she does not know what happened to 
it.The possibility that depositor funds at 
Madison Guaranty were .contributed to 
Clinton’s campaign is one of several ques­
tions expected to be examined.
News briefs courtesy 
The Los Angeles Times- 
Washington Post News Service 
Layout by 
Jason Togyer
Celebrate TraditionBalfour
kF Balfour.
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime when they're 
preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. Sports, academics, 
degrees, years of graduation, and custom school designs 
can all be captured in your Balfour Class Ring... a 
tradition of excellence since 1931!
Monday.....................January 17
Tuesday.....................January 18
Baker Hall 
10am - 3pm
No one remembers in so many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 19943
THEFTS, from page 1
¡he University can propose.”
“We have taken some steps to 
xy to address the situation,” he 
jaid. “We felt that the alarming 
jf the fire escape would be an 
additional security measure, 
jlowever, we are enhancing the 
alarm, so that there will be no 
further points of entry via the fire 
¡scape.”
potter said that Security Sys­
tems of America is installing 
;tress sensors on the fire escape 
¡0 that any weight will set off an 
alarm, both at the building and 
at Campus Police. “We have 
posted a security guard there 
until the alarm is installed.”
“We think that the burglar did 
know that the building was unoc­
cupied,” said Potter.
“Anyone could see by the traffic 
in the area that there wasn't any 
traffic around,” LaPaglia said. 
‘Neither CMU or Pitt students. 
There were no lights on and no 
movement in and out of the build­
ing. The location and the lack of 
people in the area make it a great 
location,” he said.
“For the welfare of the students,
Thief targets housing over break
we have not let students stay in 
certain buildings over break,” 
Potter said. “This incident has 
prompted us to reconsider other 
ways to operate during the break 
period.”
“In the past, this [empty build­
ings] had not been a problem,” 
LaPaglia said. “It would have 
been nice to have alarm systems 
in the building, especially when 
you have a building that’s totally 
isolated.”
LaPaglia said that he would be 
hesitant to let one or two stu­
dents stay in an isolated location 
without a police officer.
“I would be concerned with hav­
ing one or two students living in 
Tudor/Carol over a break.” 
LaPaglia said that even though 
Campus and Pittsburgh Police 
were keeping the buildings un­
der sporadic surveilliance, the 
thief was able to break in after 
police began watching the build­
ing. The fact that much of the 
building is concealed, and the fact 
that the thief was able to enter 
and exit so quickly meant that he 
was difficult to catch.
“We were, at various times,
putting two officers in Carol 
Apartments hoping to catch the 
individual,” he said. “We feel that 
on one occasion, as we were check­
ing Tudor, he was in Carol.
“Even if we check it once an 
hour, which we were striving to 
do, it doesn’t take a minute to 
break in,” said LaPaglia. He said 
that typically, one officer on each 
shift is assigned to patrol the off- 
campus apartments. In addition, 
the Campus Police north campus 
patrol, covering Mellon Institute 
and Software Engineering Insti­
tute, also checks the area.
“It only takes a few minutes to 
get into the building,” said Detec­
tive Bill Kaiser of Campus Police, 
“and once you do get in you can do 
a lot of damage.”
Potter said that the office needs 
to balance concerns about the 
safety of students against secu­
rity concerns.
“I definitely feel less safe. I don’t 
know what’s going to happen 
now,” said Su. “I would definitely 
not live here again if I had to.” 
[Editor’s note: Brockett Horne 
is a member of The Tartan’s edi­
torial board.]
Rotunda repairs complete
MAGGIE MO, from page 1
make and inspire the home; To lessen suffering 
and increase happiness; to aid mankind and its 
upward struggles; To enoble and adorn life’s 
work, however humble; These are women’s high 
perogatives.”
The workers “cleaned up the wording and re­
surfaced it,” said Murphy, but otherwise they 
remain the same. There has been no recent
discussion about changing the words.
Jennifer Potter, a senior creative major and a 
member of the Women’s Center collective, said 
that the inscription serves as a “reminder.”
“It is important not to erase history,” said 
Potter. “The etchings in the Margaret Morrison 
rotunda serves as a reminder of where we have 
been and where we hope to go. We cannot gauge 
our progress if we don’t know where we started.”
Microwave use in dorms approved
MICROWAVES, from page 1
chair for SDC says, “The drains were not really a 
big problem. Students have always kept food in 
their rooms. We already have students flushing 
stuff like soup 
down them. Micro­
waves would not 
really affect the 
situation. It was 
the wiring that was 
the main problem.
“Roselawn Ter­
race allows micro- 
waves and their
wiring is terrible compared to the other dorms on 
campus,” said LaMonica.
Potter says, “Microwaves have always existed in 
dorms. The wiring has seemed to take it so far. As
long as we [housing] can keep track of which rooms 
have microwaves in them, it should be okay.” 
Housing plans to have educational programs 
explaining the impact of microwaves on the electri­
cal circuits 
in the com­
ing semes­
ter.
“If there 
are electri­
cal prob­
lems, we will 
reassess on 
a floor by
floor basis,” says Curtin.
Larson says, “I think that SDC and the whole 
student body in general is very pleased with the 
new policy. “
“Microwaves have always existed in 
dorms. ”
— Dave Potter,; 
ass’t director of housing for admin.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Registrar resigns 
citing personal reasons
Richard A. Rainsberger resigned as 
registrar on December 16 after 11 years 
at the university, citing personal rea­
sons for his departure.
John R. Papinchak, associate director 
of Admissions, has been appointed act­
ing registrar until a search committee 
finds a permanent replacement. 
“[Papinchak] is a Carnegie Mellon alum. 
He’s been a student and knows the needs 
of students,” said William F. Elliott, vice 
president for enrollment. Elliott said he 
expects the search process to take a few 
months.
Elliott said Rainsberger’s resignation 
will not slow the university’s move to a 
system similar to ones in place at other 
schools that allow students to do their 
own registration. “We’re certainly well 
under way in deciding how students can 
access the system. I’d rather use the 
computer than the telephone. We’d also 
like to get transcripts on-line,” he said.
Rainsberger said that the parting was 
“amicable.”
“I’ve decided to pursue other opportu­
nities both inside and outside of higher 
education,” said Rainsberger.
Rainsberger said his proudest accom­
plishment during his tenure was mod­
ernizing record-keeping in the registrar’s 
office.
“I think moving student records from
a very bad system to an on-line, real­
time system [was my proudest achieve­
ment],” he said, “but that was the work 
of a lot of people. It’s a credit to the 
administration that they realized that 
the administrative side of our systems 
had to catch-up with the other sides.”
Rainsberger holds a master’s degree 
from Ohio State and a PhD from the 
University of Toledo. He lives in Allison 
Park, north of Pittsburgh.
Drama professor 
emeritus passes
William Aitken Nelson, professor of 
drama emeritus, died on Thursday, 
January 13. Born in 1919 in Trenton, N. 
J., he received his BFA from Carnegie 
Institute of Technology in 1952 and his 
MFA in Drama from Yale University in 
1953. Prior to teaching at Carnegie 
Mellon, he was an instructor of lighting 
at Yale University where he assisted 
Stanley McCandless.
As a lighting designer Nelson worked 
at some of the premiere theatres in 
America, including the American Con­
servatory Theater and the Great Lakes 
Shakespeare Festival.
“Bill Nelson was one of the foremost 
lighting professors in the country,” said 
Donald Marinelli, associate head of 
drama. “Among his former students are 
some of the most successful lighting de­
signers in America. Bill was a giant in 
his field. It’s a real loss to the theatrical 
community.”
H&SS heads appointed
Peter Stearns, dean of the college of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, an­
nounced the appointment of two depart­
ment heads December 8,1993.
Wilfred Sieg, a professor in the Phi­
losophy Department, was named to head 
that department. English professor 
David Kaufer was named head of the 
English Department, effective July 1.
Career center director retires
Dennis Ryan,-director of the Career 
Center, retired last month after 39 years 
at the university.
A graduate of St. Vincent’s College, he 
worked at what was then Carnegie 
Mellon’s Bureau of Placement and was 
named director of the bureau in 1970. 
William F. Elliott, vice president for 
enrollment, has been named acting di­
rector of the career center until a perma­
nent replacement is found.
“There’s a very extensive task force 
[that’s] trying to decide how to prepare 
the Career Center for the year 2000,” 
said Elliot. He said the task force’s re­
port will be used as a “road map” in 
finding a new director of theCareer- Cen­
ter.
Compiled by 
DECLAN McCULLAGH 
and JASON TOGYER
Drama freshman dies at home during winter break
NEWTON, from page 1
fiction clubs. “He really loved to read 
science fiction books,” said his mother.
According to drama instructor Innerst, 
“He was crazy about science fiction. He 
was the class expert on it.”
“One of the main things we’d do on 
weekends is watch Star Trek and Deep 
Space Nine” said Jason Wolfson, an 
ECE graduate student who went to the 
same high school as Newton.
“He always wanted to be an active 
participant in life. He wanted to get the 
most out of everything,” said Wolfson. 
“It seems like he did so much in the past 
few months. I’d say he’s done a lot more 
in the 18 years he’s lived than most 
people do in a lifetime,” he said.
Accordingto Kumar, some of Newton’s 
classmates can now realize the extent of 
his kindness. “One really touching story 
came from Joe Fria, a friend of his. The
Correction...
last time he saw Seth [Newton] was just 
before break. He saw him walking across 
campus with a huge pile of voice tapes,” 
said Kumar.
“Seth was delivering everyone’s tapes 
and said he’d take Joe’s tape too,” he 
said. “The thing Joe can’t remember is if 
he said goodbye to him.”
Newton was born in Philadelphia and 
lived in Ardmore for the last 15 years. 
He is survived by his parents, Philip and 
Patricia Newton, and his grandparents, 
Robert and Alyse Montgomery. A me­
morial service will be held on Friday at 
4:30 pm in the Mudge Lounge.
Haverford High School has established 
a memorial scholarship fund in memory 
of Newton. Contributions can be sent to 
Seth M. Newton Scholarship Fund for 
Voice and Drama, care of Robert Lucci, 
Guidance Office, Haverford High School, 
200 Mill Road, Havertown, PA 19083.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Andrew Sproule at x8-2111, or write him in 
care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
News writers are friendly, courteous, kind, obe­
dient ... wait, that's the Boy Scouts. Never mind. 
NEWS NEEDS WRITERS! Callx8-2111.
fjf; 4 rJi jjfi
iii
Carnegie Mellon 
Activities Fair 
Spring 1994-
Thursday, January 20th ^
4:00 to 7:00 pm w\ $ V
In the Skibo Ji4llroom * :    - ¦ l-JfSI J - */ r\v- \ } J \ I
if/: v ? -• •• t :
sponsored by your Activities Fee and the Office of Student Activities
JA SONTG
08/95 03-097-^10 suc I

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Security plan needs 
more consideration
Due to recent demands by 
Wean Hall and Doherty Hall 
occupants, Campus Police is 
planning on hiring two new of­
ficers whose sole responsibility 
will be guarding entrances to 
the two buildings at night. There 
will be only one door open and 
guarded for each building, while 
all other entrances will be 
locked. We understand that this 
is a concerted attempt to im­
prove security, and we realize 
this is only a temporary mea­
sure, we do feel that this plan 
has many flaws.
First of all, which entrances 
will be locked?. For Doherty, 
the entrance that may seem to 
make sense to keep open, the 
main front entrance, is not 
handicapped accessible. But if 
security decides to leave only 
the side ramp entrance open, 
this will make it inconvenient 
for students and others needing 
to enter the building late at 
night, especially consideringthe 
large number of students enter­
ing the building for DH2210 
movies on weekend nights.
In Wean, the problem is not so 
much handicapped accessibil­
ity as it is deciding which of the 
high-traffic entrances to use. 
There are at least two entrances, 
the first and fifth floor main 
entrances, that seem logical to 
keep open. Locking the first floor 
entrance might endanger the 
many Wean occupants that use 
its ground-level parkinglot area, 
while locking the fifth floor en­
trance would seem to do the 
same for students and others 
wanting to enter the building 
from the main campus area.
Also, will this plan be effec­
tive? Many thefts on campus 
are probably performed by stu­
dents and staff of the univer­
sity. Keeping guards at the doors 
will not stop these crimes, be­
cause they could enter and leave 
out of a side door unnoticed.
Also, since the buildings will 
be open and unlocked during
the day, couldn’t non-campus 
criminals simply come into the 
building when it is unlocked, 
hide or roam the building inside 
until it is late at night, unbe­
knownst to the guard outside?
A last question: why only 
Wean and Doherty? True, these 
buildings have seen theft crime 
waves lately, but they are not 
the only ones. Buildings such as 
Baker/Porter, Hamburg, and 
CFA have all had their share of 
crime as well. Why are Wean 
and Doherty getting special at­
tention? We hope it is not sim­
ply because they house the 
wealthier departments.
We know that the hiring of 
these two new officers for guard 
duty is only a temporary band- 
aid while decisions are made 
about more permanent mea­
sures, but we are worried that 
someone has stuck it on the 
wrong arm. Depending on the 
choice of entrances, this plan 
may actually end up endanger­
ing more people because they 
will be forced to walk further to 
get to where they want to go. 
Considering the fact that the 
planmaynotevenhelp the theft 
problem, we do not see this as a 
worthwhile risk for security to 
be taking.
Perhaps, security could sim­
ply add these officers to the rov­
ing patrol in these buildings. 
That way, suspicious activity 
would more likely be detected 
earlier, especially acts by the 
criminals who are able to slip 
through the rather large loop­
holes of the current locked-door 
proposal, and response time 
would be much faster. Then, if 
they still wanted to try the 
locked doors, they could employ 
student deskattendants, orper- 
haps install card readers, so that 
more doors could be accessed 
safely.
We applaud the efforts of Cam­
pus Police, but we do hope they 
don’t spend too much time look­
ing in the wrong direction.Inscription’s true spirit 
must be recognized
The restoration of the Marga­
ret Morrison rotunda facing 
Tech Street is almost complete. 
On the inner rim of the rotunda 
is the motto of the Margaret 
Morrison Women’s College: “To 
make and inspire the home; to 
lessen suffering and increase 
happiness; to aid mankind and 
its upward struggles; to ennoble 
and adorn life’s work, however 
humble; these are women’s high 
perogatives.” Obviously, this 
dates back to a time when the 
expected roles of women were 
different.
Today, we accept that women 
have the same goals and should 
have the same opportunities as 
men. Some have suggested that 
the inscription be removed in 
order to reflect the modern view 
of women in society. The Uni­
versity says that the inscription 
should remain due to its histori­
cal significance as the Women’s 
College motto. There is little 
doubt that if the inscription con­
cerned an ethnic group the Ad­
ministration would either have 
already removed the inscription
Budget amendment has problems
__________Ronak Singhal
When voters during the 1992 
presidential election were 
asked to name the issue that 
worried them the most, the 
federal budget deficit was 
named early and often. In or­
der to appease the people, a 
diverse group of politicians 
ranging from former Presi­
dent Ronald Reagan to cur­
rent President Bill Clinton 
believes that they have found 
a panacea for the problem: 
they wish to add a balanced- 
budget amendment to the Con­
stitution.
The proposed amendment 
states that Congress has to 
balance the federal budget ev-. 
eryyear. Congress would have 
a small time frame between 
passage of the amendment and 
the point when it would actu­
ally take affect.
Proponents of the bill state 
that it is necessary in order for 
the country to prevent mort­
gaging the future. In my opin­
ion, however, the balanced 
budget amendment is not the 
answer to our woes.
Many of those who support 
a balanced budget amendment 
would like to see one put in 
place so that government 
spending could be limited. 
They reason that such an 
amendment will force cutting 
wasteful government pro­
grams. These factors are often
the ones noticed by conserva­
tive supporters of the amend­
ment.
On the other hand, many 
liberals who support the 
amendment also believe that 
while such a measure is neces­
sary, they wouldn’t mind see­
ing the budget leveled in a 
totally different way: higher 
taxes. The way the currently 
proposed balanced budget
ably, the budget could be bal­
anced by raising taxes year 
after year without any consid­
eration to limiting spending. 
Considering that the deficit is 
over 1 trillion dollars and there 
are less than 200 million tax­
payers in the nation, each per­
son, on the average, could end 
up seeing a large sum of money 
going out the window.
Thus, Americans end up
"The way the amendment stands, 
it’s perfectly all right for a bal­
anced budget to be achieved 
through large tax increases. ”
amendment stands, it doesn’t 
specify how the budget is to be 
balanced. Without this, it’s 
perfectly all right for a bal­
anced budget to be achieved 
through large tax increases. 
With a balanced budget 
amendment in place, members 
of Congress could shift the 
blame for new taxes from 
themselves onto this law — a 
law that the maj ority of Ameri­
cans supported.
The proposed amendment, 
however, allows Congress to 
raise the budget only by a cer­
tain percentage every year. 
This, of course, is understand­
able given the need to take 
inflation and other economic 
factors into consideration. But 
again, this by no means re­
quires Congress ever to stop 
its spending ways. Conceiv-
paying more of their hard- 
earned money to the federal 
bureaucracy.
Some supporters of the bal­
anced budget amendment 
have said that one tax they 
would like to see is a 50 cent 
per gallon gasoline tax. Again, 
this tax could cripple the 
economy by both driving up 
the price of goods (due to the 
higher cost of transportation) 
and decreasing the take-home 
income of most Americans. 
Such a tax would have a nega­
tive impact on the economy, 
yet it is typical of the taxes 
now being proposed in order 
to balance the budget.
It is also possible that the 
balanced budget amendment 
could force Congress to cut too 
much from its programs too 
quickly. Although Congress’
spending habits are ofte 
criticized, a sharp decrea; 
in the spending of the go 
emment over a short perit 
of time could severely dan 
age the economy.
Finally, my last concei 
about a balanced budge 
amendment is that it doe 
not contain any provision 
for “emergency” situation: 
such as a war or natun 
disaster. These are time 
that the government shoul 
be allowed to run over but 
get in order to meet the need 
of the people. Without th 
ability to spend in these situ 
ations, the ability of the gov 
emment to protect and hel: 
its people would be severel 
limited.
Obviously, both situation 
that I have just depicted an 
purely hypothetical; in faci 
it is entirely possible tha 
this amendment is just wha 
is needed to put ou 
government’s finances bac! 
in order.
But to me, it seems that 
balanced budget amend 
ment is a short-term solu 
tion that could cause long 
term problems. A slowe 
budget-balancing proces 
could, in the long run, b- 
better for the nation as s 
whole by protecting the con 
sumer from high taxes with 
out immediately cuttinj 
people off from governmen 
support.
Ronak Singhal is a fresh 
man in CIT. fj
Legalizing drugs would benefit everyonei
or made it very clear that the 
view was not endorsed any 
longer. We believe that since 
the rotunda’s inscription is go­
ing to remain, the University 
should make some official state­
ment concerning it.
Carnegie Mellon’s Statement 
of Assurance says that the Uni­
versity does not discriminate 
on the basis of sex. We feel the 
spirit of the inscription goes 
against the Statement of As­
surance.
Are we afraid of being politi­
cally incorrect?. No, that is not 
the issue. However, we are 
afraid that women are not be­
ing granted the same respect 
that every group deserves. 
Words can be very powerful and 
the inscription seems to say that 
women are somehow less im­
portant than the men.
vVe feel that it would be ap­
propriate to place a permanent 
notice, such as a plaque, near 
the entrance to the Margaret 
Morrison rotunda, putting the 
inscription in proper historical 
context.
^I
America is losing the war on drugs. 
Face it, it’s true. Violent crime is going up, 
and most of it is related to drugs in some 
way or another.
Why is it, then, that we insist that the 
war continue? That if we “just say no,” all 
our problems will be over? Obviously, it 
isn’t enough to just say ho. Maybe we 
should just say, “Do what you want.”
The fact that drugs are illegal isn’t ben­
efiting the U.S. population in any way. In 
fact, most of the recent escalation of vio­
lent crime is drug-related — people buy­
ing or selling drugs, or trying to get drugs 
or money to buy drugs. Plenty of people 
are killed or have their lives ruined in 
some way by our government’s all-out 
war on drugs. Our prisons are overcrowded 
by drug offenders. If the war on drugs 
continues, what is going to be accom­
plished? The “drug problem” being wiped 
off ¿he face of the earth? I don’t think so.
If you think the war on drugs in this 
nation should be continued, ask yourself 
honestly why you believe this. To protect 
us from drug-crazed maniacs running in 
the streets? To protect our children from 
the horrors of drug experimentation? Face 
it, in a country where even the President 
admits to having smoked marijuana, drug 
experimentation has become de rigeur, 
and plentv of people have lived to tell —
and even lead productive lives.
Some believe that the war on drugs is 
needed in order to halt the escalating 
violence due to drugs in our country. But 
why have illegal drugs caused so much 
violence in this nation? Simply because 
they are illegal is the answer. If drugs 
were not criminalized, most of the vio­
lence this country is plagued with would 
not exist.
Another argument for the war on drugs 
is that we must protect those who can­
not protect themselves from the evils of 
illicit drugs. Yet any and all drugs, with 
the exception of second-hand smoke from 
cigarettes, only harm the partaker. Be­
cause drugs are illegal and, hence, hard 
to find and expensive, junkies routinely 
harm someone else in order to get the 
drug they need.
But if junkies can go to the local clinic 
and get the dosage they need to remain 
a harmless member of society, no crime 
has been committed and no one has been 
harmed, except the drug user.
There will always be people who do 
not care what they do to themselves, and 
there will always be people who are 
unproductive members of society. If these 
people are illegal drug addicts, they are 
criminals who often have to do harm to 
others in order to get what they want. If 
these people are alcoholics or nicotine 
addicts, they only have to walk down to 
the corner store to get what they want.
But if heroin, cocaine, and all other 
illicit drugs were legalized, wouldn’t ev­
eryone become an addict? Well, in this
society where alcohol is readily avail 
able, we are not all alcoholics. Neithef 
is it true that we are all addicted t| 
nicotine, and cigarettes are equally a| 
easy to get.
Some people don’t like drugs 
cause they don’t believe in chemical!; 
altering their bodies. Some try van 
ous illicit drugs merely because the 
are illicit, and others try them becaus 
they are looking for excitement in the; 
lives. There’s the recreational dru 
user who will never be anything mon 
and the hard-core drug user who wi 
never be anything less. I venture j 
state that this would not change wit 
the legalization of drugs.
Moreover, legalization would bet 
efit addicts who want help. When drug 
are criminalized, the drug addif 
doesn’t come forward for help becaui 
s/he doesn’t want to be arrestee 
preached to, or made to feel ashaniec 
If help is easy to get, there is nothin 
to stop those who want help.
If drugs were legalized, addictio 
would not be a criminal offense an 
addicts could get help if they wante 
it. And if the addict didn’t want helf 
who’s to complain? How could the siti 
ation possibly be any worse than it* 
now?
Our current method of dealing wit 
the problem of drugs is failing, and 
need to try something else. Why n* 
legality? Any reasonable person wj 
understand that although drug legs 
Please see DRUGS, pag0'

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 19945
Self-protection is a fundamental right
David Hunt
Soon after her husband left for work, a woman heard 
ie front door window break. A hand came through to 
nlock the door and a stranger entered. She ran to the 
¡droom, locked the door, and grabbed a handgun. The 
,truder kicked the door in and she pointed the gun at 
im. He left.
police responding to a breaking and entering report
,und an elderly woman rocking in a chair, ________
er revolver pointed at a man who was obedi­
ently lyin£ Part way through her “pet door.”
What do these and approximately 645,000 
|ther incidents per year have in common? 
hey represent ordinary citizens stopping 
rime, on their own, with a firearm. Gary 
leek, a Florida State University criminology 
rofessor, estimates this number based on 
;udies of several public surveys, including 
ie commissioned by a handgun-ban organi- 
ition.
cases of the misuse of firearms.
The Long Island Railroad psycho, who walked up and 
down the aisles shooting people, lived where legal gun 
ownership is curtailed and a carrying permit is all but 
unobtainable. So he went to California, where he success­
fully passed a 15-day waiting period before he obtained his 
weapons. He had no criminal background, and faked 
residency by using the hotel’s address. Flaunting New 
York law, which strictly forbids the carrying of firearms 
without a permit, he carried his weapons onto the train.
In Texas, over 20 people were killed when a crazed 
gunman drove his truck through the window of Lub^s 
cafeteria and started shooting people. One of the survivors
“How much faster might the Long Island 
shooter have been stopped if someone had 
been carrying and dropped him after the first 
few shots?”
The media claims we are witnesses to an explosion of had owned a gun, which was in her truck in the parking lot.
¡olence, yet according to Department of Justice (DOJ) While Texas has liberal firearm ownership laws, she was 
atistics just released, murder was down five percent in forbidden to carry it in her purse. How many people might called for the police who arrived, knocked on the door, 
B‘993. New laws, such as the Brady Law and the Omni- still be alive had she had that gun and used it? How much and soon left. Again they were called, and didn’t come
first try to ascertain if the victim is armed. This clearly 
points out the potential deterrent power of privately- 
owned firearms.
In 1990 the National Association of Chiefs of Police 
polled over 16,000 departments, and found that for the 
third year in a row law enforcement officers over­
whelmingly agreed that gun control did not result in 
crime control. Almost 90 percent believed that ban­
ning semi-automatic guns would not reduce criminal 
access to said weapons.
Some gun control advocates state that we should 
rely on the police for protection. Police can only re­
spond to a crime — they must be called, and many 
times they do not respond. Of some 
700,000 calls for help by Dade County 
Florida residents in 1981, only 200,000 
were responded to. I don’t know how 
many of these calls were cranks, or didn’t 
require an immediate response, but it is 
clear that the police will not always reply 
immediately. And they are not liable if 
they don’t respond!
_________ For example, two men breaking into
the home of several women found one 
woman and her four-year-old daughter, 
whereupon one raped her and the other forced her to 
perform oral sex. From the third floor, two women
Crime Bill, are paraded as efforts to “get tough on 
rime,” despite the recent trend to ignore the automatic 
additional years in jail for the use of a gun in a 
crime.
Former Attorney General William Barr said, “We 
isisted on throwing the book at career violent offend- 
and now that policy is being undermined.” He adds 
don’t whine about new gun control laws if you won’t 
iforce the [nearly 20,000] ones already on the books.” 
These laws state that convicted felons, drug addicts, 
certified mental defectives are forbidden to pur- 
lase guns. Owning a fully-automatic weapon has been 
legal without a license since the 1930s! Both New York 
ity and Washington D.C. have some of the toughest 
un control laws in the country, but they also have 
mong the highest gun crime rates. This past year, the 
ig Apple was the scene of one of the most publicized
faster might the Long Island shooter have been stopped if 
someone had been carrying and dropped him after the first 
few shots?
A joint Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and 
Washington D.C. police study found that in Washington, 
where gun ownership is for all practical purposes illegal, 
20 percent of guns seized were homemade, and 80 percent 
were stolen — half of which were stolen from the police! 
Clearly, persons intent on using firearms for criminal 
purposes will get them, regardless of the illegality.
A 1985 DOJ survey of criminals in jail by professors 
James Wright and Peter Rossi found that 84 percent of 
guns owned by felons had been obtained illegally. They 
also found that over half of the inmates did not commit a 
planned crime for fear that the victim might be armed, and 
over half were scared off by firearms-wielding citizens. 
Eighty-five percent agreed that a “smart” criminal will
at all. Soon the men found the hiding women and the 
three were raped, robbed, beaten, and forced to 
sodomize the men and each other for 14 hours.
After their ordeal the women sued the police, and 
lost. The panel of judges found that“... police personnel 
and the government employing them are not generally 
liable to victims of criminal acts for failing to provide 
adequate police protection.”
Since criminals will obtain guns illegally, and the 
police cannot always protect us, it falls to each and 
every citizen to protect themselves as they see fit. 
Some will choose alarms, mace, bars, or other devices. 
I choose common sense and a gun.
David Hunt is a mechanical engineering PhD stu­
dent. He feels it is far better to be judged by 12 than 
carried by six.Homophobia degrades all of us
Matt Bail
Sex with my lover is very compelling. 
My desire for this person’s body is not 
lifestyle choice, nor, I believe, a prod- 
ict of my upbringing (certainly neither 
>f my parents promoted these feelings). 
iVhen making love, I am not thinking 
ibout what Jesus said, nor anything in 
he Bible. I am not considering what 
¡ociety says, nor the future of the spe- 
ies. For whatever reason, I am attracted 
a person with a certain look, smile, 
'ersonality ... and set of genitals. This 
[ualified attraction—I don’t and haven’t 
:elt this way for anyone with another set 
•f genitals — says nothing about me as 
person except in this limited and pri­
vate setting which affects only my lover, 
om I find attractive has nothing to do 
th how I interact with people other 
an my lover.
Yet next to my skin color and perhaps 
my own biological sex, the sex of my 
[lover determines my dealings with soci­
ety- If I were attracted to a male, an 
believable percentage of society would 
mediately condemn me.
This I do not understand.
I
During the course of a day, I go to class 
and do homework, meet with my col­
leagues, write letters to my friends, dis­
cuss various issues of the day, and some­
times cook for people. How any of this is 
affected by what I do in the privacy of my 
own bedroom at night — whether it is 
making love with a man or woman or 
myself, praying to Jesus/Mohammed/Bud­
dha, or painting my toenails, wearing 
women’s clothing or writing a novel — I 
cannot begin to imagine.
I cannot imagine anyone in this society 
easily choosing to become involved with a 
member of the same sex. For all the hatred 
and harassment they encounter, I wonder 
if I would have been able to act from my 
desires had my affinity been different. The 
difficulty others encounter in pursuing 
love and affection is disheartening to me, 
having listened to the stories of friends 
who dated members of the opposite sex in 
an attempt to “fit in” when they were 
actually attracted to members of their 
own sex.
While promiscuous homosexual relation­
ships certainly exist, they also exist in the 
heterosexual world. The relationships I 
have known between members of the same 
sex have been ones of deep commitment 
and consideration; rather than being “de­
viant” or “degrading,” these couples have 
been models of love and devotion. While I 
was expected to “have” a girlfriend (and
was questioned and prodded when I didn’t), 
the connection between my homosexual 
friends was not “the thing to do.” With 
well-founded fears of losing friends, fam­
ily, and job, to be openly gay was not a 
decision they entered into lightly.
What is the root of society’s revulsion 
towards homosexual relationships? It can­
not be anything practical. Women have 
more reason to be frightened of a straight 
male than any man has reason to be fright­
ened of a gay male. Personally, I am more 
wary of straight males, for despite the 
paranoid stereotypes, I haven’t met a gay 
person given to macho displays or random 
acts of violence.
From a pragmatic standpoint alone, it 
would be advantageous to promote a ho­
mosexual lifestyle. Many, if not most of 
the problems that plague the world can be 
traced to overpopulation, which can be 
“cured” if a population is largely paired 
with people of the same sex.
Yet homophobia remains the last bas­
tion of naked, high-sounding, small- 
minded prejudice and hatred in society 
today. Like the Nazis and KKK members 
of the past, these intolerant, ignorant 
judges wrap themselves in some grand 
god-given morality and build up their pa­
thetic selves by tearing down others.
We are all degraded in the process.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in EPP.
Drugs are less harmful when legal
DRUGS, from page 4
ization will not produce a perfect world, 
it will produce a less violent world. 
Once legalized, drugs only hurt the 
person that uses them. Why are our 
prisons full to bursting with drug “of­
fenders”? Why are we so violently 
afraid of people harming themselves?
The fact is, our government has too 
many laws to protect us from our­
selves, even though this is not the 
national, state, or local government’s 
responsibility. It is the responsibility 
of the individual.
People would not change if drugs 
were legalized. There would still be 
abstainers, casual users, and addicts. 
What should change is our tactic for 
dealing with the drug problem. Local, 
state, and national branches of gov­
ernment would be better off spending 
their time worrying about something 
other than protecting me from myself, 
or you from yourself.
Keegan Folk is a senior English ma­
jor and Tartan Contributing Editor. 
She has neglected to mention why she 
really wants drugs to be legalized.
Kevin Chen/ Tartan Photographer
A new semester has begun, 
bringing with it problem sets, 
fading assignments, and just 
Setting back into the swing of 
things in blistery, frigid 
weather. As the temperture 
dips below zero, we asked 
CMUstudents Where would 
you rather be right now?
Katarima Midelfort
Senior
Chemistry
“I would rather be in Hawaii 
on a beach.”
Rodney Phelps
Senior
ECE
“In bed.”
Kirsten Olsen
Sophomore
ECE
“Sledding.”
Evren Damar
Freshman
ECE
“In Turkey.”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr..............Lauren Heinz
News Editor..................Jason Togyer
Forum Editor...............Abby Schiff
Sports Editor..............Eric Strauss
Features Co-Editors....Tonya Rado
Kathleen Wright 
Diversions Co-Editors ...John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor......Brockett Horne
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGinness
Art Co-Editors..............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Co-Editors.............Jim Snyder
Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr............Katie Swango
Acting Copy Mgr........Jennifer Forbes
Personnel Manager ..Frank Michels
Systems Mgr...........Chad McDaniel
Asst. Forum Ed...........Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds.......Anuj Gupta
Carolyn Skarada 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila 
Darkroom Manager.......Daniel Frey
Contributing Editors 
Keegan Folk, Laura McClure, 
Brendan McFeely, Tina L. Urso
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Janice 
McClure
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Jason 
Andracki, Matt Ball, Jennifer Barkln, 
Kymberly M. Bartlo, David Bazelon, 
Allan Bourdius, Zhuohan Cai, Mahua 
Dutta, Jessica Fang, Andi Francioni, 
Andy Giendinnlng, Tom Harper, Ed­
ward Hayes, Jason Heinlein, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Rich Kwiatkowskl, Jus­
tin Lam, Declan McCullagh, Mat­
thew Messner, Ronak Singhal, Ja­
son Specland, Steph Stine, Susan 
Stuart, Jennifer Turner, John Weber, 
Gary Wilson, Erik Witte
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Matt Goldberg, Josh 
Lederer, Andrew Plotkin, S. Hyun 
Yim
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Bassem El-Dasher, 
Andrew Flores, Kerry Hagan, Mike 
Harris, Reid Hecker, Andrew 
McDermott, David Perry, Maria 
Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert
Production 
Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Eric Pettus, 
Jenna Sweterlitsch
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Madhav Ghanta, 
Yerin Kay, Lisa Kruglak, Eileen 
O’Shea, Ed Slavishak, Elizabeth 
Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Dan Goldstein, Rich­
ard Lin, Rose Mills, Olivia Raharja, 
Monica Roisman, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, James S. Brown, Adam Darby, 
Sunanda Desai, Etan Diamond, Dan 
Goldwasser, Adam Gross, Rachel 
Hass, Eugene Hong, Sharona Jacobs, 
Mark Kantrowitz, Markus 
Kassbohrer, Brian Kidder, Ken 
Kraemer, Nina Liang, Buck Neel, Eliza­
beth Neuman, Nicole Nowitz, Ryan 
Olshavsky, Emily Pihlquist, Marga­
ret Stallings, Leanna Surma, Bethany 
Sutton, Gabe Symons, Daniella Topol, 
Roger Wang, Ron Yang, Calvin Yao, 
Hyun Yim, Brian Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub­
lished by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer­
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsyl­
vania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The editori­
als appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political cartoons 
are the opinions of Individual creators. The Tar­
tan reseives the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University commu­
nity. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright © 1993 by Tho Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to with­
hold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN it: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

ByP lea asTPHETPT FSea, pgF, 
,e Te pE,g ,gP yP3, eA leay nEAPd
Macintosh Quadra® ÆÆ’cf 8J230, witb internal 
AppleCD™ 300i CD-ROM drive, Apple AudioVision ™ 14'' 
Display, Apple Extended Keyboard 11 and mouse.
Macintosh LC 475 4180, Apple Color Plus 
14” Display, Apple Keyboard 11 and mouse.
Apple PowerBook 145B 4180.A n easy' application process. And you could qualify for low monthly payments on a Macintosh or PowerBook.
Introducing The Great Apple Campus Deal
Introducing The Great Apple Campus 
Deal. Right no^ buy any select Macintosh® 
or PowerBook® computer, and you’ll also 
get seven useful software programs. It’s all 
included in one low price. (The software 
alone has a combined SRP of $596.*) And, 
the new Apple Computer Loan offers low 
monthly payments that make the deal 
even better. Apply by January 28,1994, and 
your first payment is deferred for 90 days. 
All you have to do is qualify. So, what 
are you waiting for? An Apple* computer. 
It does more. It costs less. It’s that simple.
It does more. It costs less. It’s that simple.
Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.
Visit the Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
A Major
Affair
Then come to ...
and meet people 'who've been there.
A series of events giving you the chance to meet alumni, 
students, and faculty from the following departments:
• Biology
• Chemistry
• Computer Science
• Math
• Physics
Date: Tuesday, January 18, 1994 
Where: DH2315 
Time: 7:30 - 9:30 pm
So come get clued in!
Remember, the decisions you make about your major will affect the rest of your life.
Un Servicio Publico de esta Publicación y del
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE CAMPAIGN 
NEWSPAPER AD NO. IRS-90-1664-3 COL. x 10.5"
Volunteer Agency: McCann-Erickson, Campaign Director: Allan F. Paro, American Bankers Assn.
Para ella el problema es la artritis; para 
otro, podría ser la vista o simplemente 
preparar sus impuestos. Lo cierto es que, 
durante el pasado año, 4 millones de 
personas recibieron ayuda gratis con sus 
impuestos a través del programa de 
voluntarios del IRS.
Si usted desea ayudar, y tiene 
conocimientos básicos de aritmética, usted 
también podría unirse al programa de 
asistencia voluntaria del IRS.
Estos programas ofrecen asistencia 
durante todo el año, y necesitan la ayuda 
de empresas, organizaciones y personas 
que, como usted, deseen devolverle algo a 
la comunidad. El entrenamiento es gratis, 
y además tendrá la satisfacción de ayudar 
a otros.
Así que, hágase voluntario llamando al 
1 800 424-1040. Después de octubre 1,1990, 
favor llame al 1800 829-1040.
Y ayudará a otra persona a quitarse 
un peso de encima.
lia quisiera preparar 
sus propios impuestos, 
pero se le hace difícil hasta 
agarrar un lápiz.
Sin su ayuda, quizás no 
pueda hacerlo.
Git'ßß AJiiteöim/mler. Inc. All rieren-mil.- VY'/i'. Ibe A/file l<w. Mitditkisb. Mncinlné{lumini nuillìuivrllontun- nxistmilInii/eniúrlstf.yi/ilcüini¡mler. Iiic .l/y-iW./J timi.UutmYishm nrelriihmirús ifMe úini/niler. Inc.
Husnhm Ibv cumbinett Siwxsleil Retail Mees (SKI1/ of Ibc/mxl/icls in the üIIIIIiilí Similaire Sel for Mncinhtsb tis if IkliJ/er I. I'J'J.i Sujlinin• ù nut indiulil in Ibe urtami ¡mainel ¡md-nuina ns sbmrii in Ibis ml. Ilnlwn ntll nxviiv Ibcst-siinic Hißinire/inixninis in iin inti^nihl/wi/yfty/n«/. yy ile.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Tartans hurt by inconsistency
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan. Staffwriter
There were high expectations 
for the Tartans coming into this 
basketball season. However, af­
ter the Thanksgiving weekend, 
the Tartans found themselves at
2-3 as they prepared to go on a 
long road trip.
The Tartans started off Decem­
ber in Akron against the Division 
I Akron Zips. It has been years 
since CMU has played a Division 
I basketball team, and the fact 
that it was on the road didn’t 
make it any easier. However, the 
Tartans put up a good fight, led 
|by senior co-captain Derek 
Dragisich, who had 14 points and
14 rebounds. Dragisich also 
scored his 1,000th career point 
against Akron.I
 The Tartans kept the game 
close until the Zips pulled away 
midway through the second half 
~ and won 67-45. Tartan coach 
Tony Wingen was very pleased 
with Dragisich’s performance 
along with the rest of the team 
under pressure, and he said that 
“Derek is a physically and men­
tally tough player.”
Next the Tartans traveled to 
Atlanta where they won their sec­
ond UAA conference matchup, 
defeating Emory, 76-60. Senior 
Charlie Connors led the way with
15 points and seven rebounds. 
Then things began to fall apart 
for the Tartans.
Against the University of the 
South, sophomore Kevin Byrne
had a great game with two 3- 
point baskets and 29 total points 
to go along with eight rebounds, 
but the Tartans lost 87-80.
Then almost two weeks later, 
the Tartans allowed 46 first half 
points as they lost to Denison 77- 
63.
Wingen thinks that the games 
against the University of the 
South and Denison were the worst 
defensive games that the Tar­
tans have played all year. He 
admits that it was tough to stay 
focused during finals week and
courtesy of CMU Athletic Dept. 
Senior co-captain Derek Dragisich 
scored his 1,000th career point.
with all the road games, but he 
also said that “there is no excuse 
for not being focused and not be­
ing ready to play every game.” 
All in all, the end of 1993 was 
disappointing for the Tartans. 
Wingen summed it up best when 
he said: “We played well at times, 
but we played not so well more 
often.” He feels that defense is 
the key to the Tartan’s success
and that he just needs “overall 
more consistent play from every­
body.”
The Tartans got a good week of 
practice in before opening 1994 
at home against Rochester (their 
third UAA game). The Tartans 
trailed 31-30 at halftime, but they 
came back led by Connors (21 
points, 12 rebounds) to get the 
victory, 72-66. Also, Dragisich 
had 13 points, and seniors Rony 
Johns and Mike Hosni had 10 
points each. Hosni looked more 
comfortable leading the Tartan 
offensive attack as he had 10 as­
sists to go with his 10 points.
Next the Tartans were back on 
the road to Long Island (N.Y.) to 
face SUNY-Stony Brook. The 
Tartans shot 61 percent from the 
floor as Conners once again led 
his team to victory, 64-61. 
Connors was nine for 12 from the 
floor with 20 points and six re­
bounds. Dragisich had 15 points 
and Johns had a very good game 
as he hit three 3-point field goals 
and tallied a total 12 points and 
four rebounds. Unfortunately, 
Johns is hurt and missed the 
Johns Hopkins game. Hopefully 
he will be able to play when the 
Tartans return home next week.
So the Tartans found them­
selves at 5-6 following the win at 
Stony Brook. Also, they are still 
undefeated in conference play at
3-0. In addition, for his tremen­
dous play against Rochester and 
SUNY-Stony Brook, Connors was 
named the UAA Player-of-the- 
Week for the week of January 11,
1994. Connors leads the team : 
total points per game (12.8), in 
rebounds per game (6.8), and in 
field goal percentage (59.2 per­
cent).
However, Johns Hopkins 
brought the Tartans back down
courtesy of CMU Athletic Dept. 
Senior center Charlie Connors was 
named UAA Athlete-of-the-Week.
to earth, picking up a 78-56 win 
in Baltimore. Johns Hopkins, on 
a seven-game winning streak, 
handed CMU its first UAA loss of 
the year, dropping their record to 
5-7 (3-1 UAA). Connors had 15 
points to lead the way, but no one 
else posted double figures.
The Tartans’ schedule does not 
get any easier from here on out. 
They have 13 games remaining 
and 11 are UAA games.
The Tartans’ next two home 
games are this weekend against 
Brandeis University and New 
York University. They will play 
Brandeis Friday and New York 
Sunday.
Women open 
new year fast
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The women’s basketball team 
has been busy during the month 
of December and the early part 
of January, continuing their in­
tense training and competition.
The Tartans dropped a 59- 
50 decision to Johns Hopkins 
University yesterday, ending a 
three-game winning streak. 
Two players, senior Jeanine 
Megahan and junior Jenny 
Gretz, had double-digit scoring 
and rebounding. Megahan 
posted 12 points and 15 re­
bounds. Gretz had 11 points 
and 10 rebounds. Senior Mary 
Moore also tallied 11 points.
On Friday night, the Tartans 
blew out Catholic University, 
64-49, behind freshman 
Kristen Kupfer’s 12 points. Al­
though no other scorers were in 
double-digits, freshman Anne 
Donovan pulled down 11 re­
bounds.
The Tartans are preparing 
for an intense amount of trav­
eling and consecutive UAA play 
in the next month. Thi s includes 
Brandeis University, New York 
University, University of Chi­
cago, Washington University, 
and finally University of Roch­
ester on February 26, the last
game of the season. Mixed in 
with UAA play will be 
Waynesburg on February 18 
which was postponed earlier on 
in the season.
The current record for the Tar­
tans in their 93-94 season is 
seven wins and six loses. In UAA 
play, the record is 1-3, which 
included games against Case 
Western Reserve, Johns 
Hopkins, Emory, and Univer­
sity of Rochester.
Starters for the Tartans have 
been senior co-captains Moore 
and Megahan, Gretz, and fresh­
men Kupfer and Penny Sum­
merville.
Things are looking promising 
for the Tartans. They won their 
last two games against Grove 
City and Thiel College last week 
before the weekend contests. 
Final scores were 71-39 against 
Grove City and 61-60 against 
Thiel. High scorers in the Grove 
City game were Megahan with 
25 points, eight assists, seven 
rebounds, Gretz with 15 points 
and Moore with 10 points. Win­
ning in overtime against Thiel, 
Moore pulled the Tartans ahead 
in the remaining six seconds of 
the game.
In the first UAA game of the 
season against Case Western 
Please see WOMEN, page £
CMU swim team cruises to sweep over Hiram College
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Winter break for the men’s and 
women’s swim team was spent in Ft. 
Lauderdale, Florida when they traveled 
down to train from December 29 through 
January 9. The team spent about five 
hours a day in the water conditioning 
and preparing for the promising second 
half of their ’93-94 season.
Coach Jim Cutrone summed up the
trip best when he said, “They worked 
harder than ever before.” Cutrone also 
feels that the Florida trip was, “the best 
training trip ever,” and he anticipates a 
successful rest of the season. The next 
step is to begin preparing for UAA’s 
which are quickly creeping up on the 
weekend of February 17-19 at the Uni­
versity of Rochester.
On Saturday, the Tartans had a suc­
cessful trip to Hiram College, where 
both the men’s and women’s teams won.
“They worked harder 
than ever before.... 
[This was] the best 
training trip ever. ”
— Jim Cutrone, 
swimming coach
Tartan File Photo
Carnegie Mellon swimmingcoach Jim Cutrone and record-setting sophomore Rebecca 
Fruehan share a laugh during a meet last month. Fruehan owns five school records.
Final total points for the men were: 
CMU 108 versus Hiram 65. The women 
ended with: CMU 109 versus Hiram 91.
Highlights for the men’s competition 
began with a first place finish with the 
400 medley relay. The relay team con­
sisted of senior Jef Berghoff, junior Don 
Nelson, senior captain Todd Vandall,
and sophomore ----------------------------
Jeff Milton. Next, 
in the 400 free re­
lay, seniors Mark 
Stemm, Anupam 
Narula, and junior 
Zack Charmoy and 
Milton contributed 
another first place 
victory. Nelson, 
who won every 
event except one, 
also came in first 
place in the 100 yard freestyle.
The women’s team also started strong 
with their first place win in the 400 
medley relay which involved junior 
Joanne Kievan, senior Denise Fenwick, 
and sophomores Holley Anstatt and 
Rebecca Fruehan. Another important 
first place win for the women’s team was 
in the 400 free relay with junior captain 
Dianne Keen, junior Sarah Broadley, 
and sophomores Ilania Kaplan and 
Christina Hagopion.
A definite turning point in the meet 
was when Kievan won the 200 meter 
butterfly event. This was the first time 
Kievan swam this event. Following, there 
were several more first place winners 
starting with Broadley in the 200 yard 
freestyle, then Hagopion in the 800
freestyle, and also Kaplan in the 400 
freestyle.
On January 12 the men’s team won 
the meet against Washington and 
Jefferson, however the women’s team 
suffered a loss of 111-71.
However, an interesting highlight on 
Wednesday for the women’s team was 
when Fruehan, a 
graduate of Frank­
lin Regional High 
School, set a Car­
negie Mellon pool 
record in the 200- 
yard freestyle. 
Fruehan’s pool 
record and first 
place win was a 
time of 2:00.92. 
During her fresh- 
^m man year, Fruehan 
demonstrated her athletic abilities by 
earning several honors such as All- 
American in the 100 and 200 yard 
freestyles, the UAA title in the 200 yard 
freestyle in conference record time, and 
also by setting five school records.
Before the UAA meet, the Tartans 
swim against Bethany College on Satur­
day, the team’s final home meet. They 
travel to Slippery Rock University of 
Pennsylvania on January 29 for another 
dual meet, then close the season with a 
trip to Fairmont State College on Febru­
ary 5.
The team will also swim in the Johns 
Hopkins University Invitational on Feb­
ruary 26, the weekend after the UAA 
title meet. National meets will take place 
in March.
Tartan File Photo 
CMU coach Jim Cutrone is pointing his 
team toward the post-season UAA meet.Football stars garner awards during productive off-season
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon football players Chad Wilson 
and Merle Atkinson received national honors over 
winter break. Wilson, a senior inside linebacker, 
was named to the Champion U.S.A. NCAA Divi­
sion III Honorable Mention All-America Team, 
while Atkinson, a junior defensive tackle, was 
named to the National Academic All-AmericaTeam.
Wilson, the UAA Co-Defensive Player-of-the- 
Year, led the Tartans in tackles for the second 
consecutive season. The co-captain and four-year 
letterman helped lead the top defense in the UAA.
Atkinson, a mechanical engineering major with 
a 3.7 QPA, was 11th on the team in tackles, and 
was an honorable mention All-UAA selection. Five 
other Tartans earned regional Academic All- 
America honors: senior defensive linemen Ben 
Burton and Shane Billings, junior defensive backs 
Joe Ferris and Steve Voytovich, and sophomore 
tight end Aaron Neal.
Meanwhile, Rich Lackner’s Tartan coaching staff
Tartan File Photo
The Tartans’ defense, ranked number one in the UAA, earned a number of prestigious post-season awards.
was named UAA staff-of-the-year.
Staff members include: Lackner, Terry Bodnar, 
Rich Erdelyi, Pete Antimarino, A1 Fletcher, Roy 
Kasimakis, Gerry Mancini, Tom Nee, Ron Smith, 
and Art Walker.
First team All-UAA members from CMU were: 
offensive lineman and senior co-captain John Cain, 
junior quarterback Chris Dee, senior wide receiver/ 
kick returner Jarrod Siket, Burton, senior defen­
sive lineman Jon Hutchinson, Wilson, sophomore 
linebacker Mark Kasperowicz, sophomore defen­
sive back Robert Locke, and grad student kicker 
Fred Harding.
Eight Tartans were named to the second team: 
junior offensive linemen Kevin Keir and Paul 
Volchko, Neal, senior fullback Brian Horton, Bill­
ings, senior defensive back Jerry Fuller, senior 
punter John Knutson, and Locke was named as 
punt returner.
Atkinson, sophomore offensive lineman Sean 
Keane, junior halfback Jason Grusky, and senior 
linebacker Jeff Blue were named to the honorable 
mention team.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 1994
Pittsburgh quickly vanishes from AFC playoff scene
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
It’s January, it’s cold, and it’s 
time for playoff football. The 
Steelers were the first team to be 
eliminated last week by the 
Chiefs, in overtime, 27-24. How­
ever, the Steelers have nothing 
to be ashamed of. They gave Kan­
sas City everything they had. 
Instead, the Steelers should be 
ashamed that they were in the 
position they found themselves 
in last week. Even without Barry 
Foster, the Steelers should have 
been able to win 10 games. How­
ever, when it became clear that 
Foster would not return, the 
Steelers started to come apart. 
First, the receivers: if you had the
pleasure of seeing one of the last 
six Steeler games, you know that 
the receivers had an acute case of 
the “drops.” Then the special 
teams went. Think of every foot­
ball play that uses “special 
teams.” The Steelers messed it 
up (punt returns, punt kicking, 
and kickoffs). Next, the second­
ary went. Against the Broncos 
and the Oilers, the Steelers’ sec­
ondary did not look good at all. 
Fortunately, the secondary fixed 
itself a little in time for the play­
offs. Finally, the defensive line 
buckled. Against the Seahawks 
(without linebacker Greg Lloyd) 
the defensive line gave in and 
allowed over 200 yards rushing.
All of the Steelers’ defensive 
problems can be attributed to in­
juries. Two of the best linemen 
that the Steelers have, Joel Steed 
and Gerald Williams, have only 
played in the same game (unin­
jured) about four or five times. 
All of the Steelers’ offensive prob­
lems occurred after Foster got 
injured. When Foster was
healthy, he rushed effectively 
and, this year especially, caught 
short passes downfield. Then 
when defenses focused on Foster, 
quarterback Neil O’Donnell 
threw the ball to tight end Eric 
Green. However, without Foster, 
Green found himself double cov­
ered. Then the Steelers had to 
start throwing more to their ex­
tremely unreliable receivers. 
Soon defenses were blitzing six 
and seven defenders because they 
only had to cover Stone and Gra­
ham man-to-man. The funniest 
thing is that the Steelers never 
solved this problem and still “slid” 
into the playoffs and put on a 
pretty good show.
So the Steelers are out. What 
can we expect next year? The 
Steelers need three good things 
and no bad things to happen be­
tween now and September. First, 
they need a dominant receiver 
(one will do fine) — the kind of 
player that will make secondar­
ies shiver. Unfortunately, this 
probably means that the Steelers
will need to shell out some money 
for a good free agent, which is 
unlikely. Second, the Steelers 
need better special teams. Firing 
the special teams coach is a start. 
Maybe head coach Bill Cowher 
might want to take care of special 
teams personally. After all, he 
was a special teams coach when 
he first arrived in the NFL. Fi­
nally, the Steelers need a defen­
sive lineman. A “Mean” Joe Green 
type who can at least hold up two 
or three offensive linemen and 
allow Kevin Greene and Lloyd 
more chances at the quarterback. 
If the Steelers can meet those 
three goals and not lose any big 
names to free agency, they will be 
one of the best in the NFL.
Now that the Steelers are dead 
and buried, let’s see who’s left. 
When you read this article, only 
four teams will be left. Last week 
the Packers beat the Lions, 28- 
24, the Raiders upset the Bron­
cos, 42-24, and the Giants beat 
the Vikings, 17-10. The only sur­
prise was how poorly the Lion
Women’s three-game win streak snapped
WOMEN, from page 7
Reserve, the Tartans triumphed 
with a win: CMU 61-46. High 
scorers , for the game were 
Megahan with 17 points, followed 
by Gretz’s 13 points.
Another remarkable win was 
against Sewanee, University of 
the South: 68-38. It was played 
the weekend of December 3-4, 
following the Emoiy game in At­
lanta. High scorers for the 
Sewanee game include Megahan 
with 20 points, freshman Rebecca 
McCadney with 14 points, and 
following with Kupfer and 
Summerville with 11 and nine 
points respectively.
The next two games for the 
women’s basketball team will be 
home on January 21 against 
Brandeis University at 6:30 pm, 
and January 23 against New York 
University at 1 pm.
The team then hits the road for 
four straight league games, play-
ing UAA foes the University of 
Chicago, Washington University 
(Mo.), New York University, and 
Brandeis University.
They then return home for five 
games, starting February 11 
against Washington University 
(Mo.), then facing the University
of Chicago, Frostburg State Uni­
versity, and Emory University. 
All but Frostburg are UAA oppo­
nents.
The Tartans then end the sea­
son against the University of 
Rochester in New York on Febru­
ary 26.
defense played in the closing 
minute of their game. If you’re a 
Lion defensive back and Sterling 
Sharpe, who made the game-win- 
ning TD catch, darts past you 
heading for the end zone, don’t 
you think you would try to cover 
him? The Lions didn’t, and it cost 
them the game.
This weekend there were four 
more playoffs games. First was 
Buffalo hosting the Raiders. The 
warm-weather Raiders stayed in 
a shootout with the cold-weather 
Bills up in frigid Rich Stadium in 
Buffalo. But the Bills prevailed, 
29-23.
Both the Giants and the 49ers 
limped into the playoffs, but the 
49ers revived their struggling 
offense, and their defense came 
up big, as they humiliated the 
New Yorkers, 44-3.
On Sunday, Dallas pounded 
Green Bay, 27-17, to move one 
step closer to defending its 1992 
title.
Meanwhile, the Kansas City 
Chiefs came from behind to de­
IM News
feat the Houston Oilers, 28—2G 
The injured Chief defense cam 
through, and Joe Montan; 
showed again that he is one of th 
great comeback leaders of a] 
time.
So, now that the semi-fim 
round is over, let’s look at Cham 
pionship game scenarios:
AFC: Kansas City at Buffalo- 
Take the Bills at home in thi 
one. Jim Kelly, Thurman Tho. 
mas, and company get anothe 
chance to win the big one. Mon 
tana won’t be enough if the Chii 
defense can’t hold up anothe 
week.
NFC: San Francisco at Dalla
— A rematch on a different field 
Count on the Cowboys to make 
this year’s Super Bowl a repeato 
last year’s matchup between thi 
Cowboys and the Bills. This wi] 
be a tight match, with Stev 
Young trying, and again failing 
to escape Montana’s shadow.
John Weber is a junior civi 
engineering major.
courtesy of CMU Athletic Dept. courtesy of CMU Athletic Dept.
Senior forward Jeanine Megahan Junior guard Jenny Gretz has had a 
leads the Tartans into 1994. hot shooting hand for CMU.
SPORTS IN SEASON
BOWLING
Commissioner: Scott Powell, 422-1349
Matches start Tuesday, and will be played every 
Tuesday night at 9 pm at Forward Lanes in 
Squirell Hill.
BRIDGE
Commissioner: Scott Powell, 422-1349
Schedules will be out this week.
BACKGAMMON
Commissioner: Dave Ekern, x2-3922
SPORTS COMING UP
BASKETBALL
Commissioners: Majors — Dave Ekern, x2-3922; 
Intermediate—Pat Leach, x2-2538; Minors—Jim 
Saxon, x2-3872; Women — Trish Williams, x2- 
2609
Entries are due Thursday by 4:30 pm. There will 
be an important rules clinic at 4:30 pm in Thistle 
Hall. Each team must have one representative, or 
it will be charged with a forfeit. It is very important 
that representatives attend.
Last year, 108 teams participated.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner: Chris Paredis, x8-7121
The entries are due on Thursday by 4:30 pm.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Commissioners: Majors—Dave Ekern, x2-3922 
Intermediate—Pat Leach, x2-2538; Minors—Jin 
Saxon, x2-3872; Women — Trish Williams, x2- 
2609
Entries are due by Thursday, January 27, bj 
4:30 pm.
PINOCHLE
Commissioner: Dave Ekern, x2-3922
Entries are due by Thursday, January 27, b; 
4:30 pm.
BUSINESS
Board meetings will be held Wednesdays at noon 
this semester. The intramural department recoin 
mended teams wear distinctive colors for basket 
ball and all similar sports. The next board meeting 
will be January 26 in the IM Office.
Compiled b;
ERIC STRAUS!
Soccer players win regional accolades CITY /yy,R
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Sports Editor
Four Carnegie Mellon soccer players received 
regional honors during winter break. Two men’s 
team co-captains, John Stivoric and Min Chong, 
were named Mid-Atlantic Region Adidas Scholar- 
Athletes, while women’s team member Anh Nguyen 
was named second-team All-Central Region. Mike 
Brazinski of the men’s team was named honorable 
mention All-Mid-Atlantic Region.
Stivoric, a grad student in industrial design with 
a scintillating 3.91 QPA, and Chong, a senior 
chemical and environmental engineering major 
with a 3.2 QPA, were repeat award winners. Stivoric 
earned his second selection for the award, while
Chong earned his third regional award.
Stivoric, the team’s sweeper, posted seven points 
and led one of the top UAA defenses, while Chong, 
a midfielder, scored six points while anchoring the 
midfield defense for the 13-3—1 Tartans.
The men’s team finished 17th in the NCAA 
Division III poll, but did not compete in post­
season play.
Nguyen, a senior and two-time AI1-UAA defender, 
led the record-setting CMU defense, while 
Brazinski, a senior and the UAA Most Valuable 
Player, finished second on the team in scoring with 
11 goals and six assists for 28 points.
Nguyen posted four points, while helping the 
defense post 10 shutouts during a 13-4-1 season, 
the best in school history.
JANUARY SALE 
Fri.. Jan. 1 itli - Sun., Jan 30th
25%) off all used books
15% off most new books 
Plus daily specials
1111 E. Carson St. • South Side
412-481-7555
Sat., Sun., Mon. ll-6Tues.-Fri. 11-9 
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The Original Hot Dog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. • 621-0435
'm £)
CHINESE RESTAURANT
Carne
gnir MloUv Cstln 
ysir MloUv
by City Pittsburgh Paper, the BEST of Pittsburgh 1992
Dine In, Carry-Out, and Catering
Oakland 
400 Craig Street
(Near Cathedral of Learning) 
687-7777 
FAX: 681-3333 
Mon-Sun, 11 am - 10 pm 
Carryout Parking all Hours.
Free Parking after 5 pm and Weekends.
Downtown 
. 124 Sixth Street
(Near Heinz Hall)
765-2222 
FAX: 681-3333 
Mon-Sun, llam-8pm 
Parking Garage Available Above Restaurant
The pressure bears down on us from all directions. 
We are under pressure from our parents, from our 
professors, from our peers. Pressure comes at us 
from the media—television programs, magazine 
articles and advertisements all tell us how we 
should look, how we should act, what we should 
desire, how we should think. On a daily,
hourly, even minute-by-minute basis, we 
live shadow of a giant cookie-
cutter that is trying to clone us, to 
I recreate us in the image of a world 
that has lost sight of Truth. How can 
we shatter the culture’s distorted cookie-cutter 
image and live, work and play as the people we 
were created to be?
Come see how at Jubilee '94.
February 25-27, at the Hilton Hotel.
Free shuttle service available to & 
from CMU.
For information and registration 
contact Earl Wagoner at 862-2118.
JV./B 1L66 '94
The prejj ¦T on to conform. Come dee how ChrLjt can transform your Life.
Mi

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon * 17 January 19949
Few NHL teams are living up to expectations
The Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdius
With the National Hockey League season now 
about half over, it’s time for a mid-season report 
card on each team. Many top teams have been 
disappointing, while many apparently mediocre 
teams have surprised. I’ve included my pre-season 
grades for the teams for comparison. So, without 
further delay, here are the midterm grades:
Anaheim Mighty Ducks (preseason grade: D): 
The Mighty Ducks are having a better season than 
anybody anticipated. Defensive hockey has been 
the key to their success. The only thing that the 
Ducks have really done badly at is play against the 
other four recent expansion teams: they’ve yet to 
win a game. Had they split those games, they’d be 
at .500. Grade: C.
Boston Bruins (preseason: B-): The Bruins are 
five games above .500, but this season has to be 
considered a disappointment so far. Boston’s de­
fense has declined and the offense hasn’t compen­
sated. The Bruins are in third place, and that’s 
probably where they’re going to stay. Grade: C+.
Buffalo Sabres (preseason: B): Buffalo had hoped 
to be a division-lead contender, but a slow start and 
injuries to key players like Pat LaFontaine and 
Alexander Mogilny derailed their plans. LaFontaine 
has been lost for the season because of knee sur­
gery, but Mogilny is back and is leading the Sabres 
offense along with veteran Dale Hawerchuk and 
rookie Derek Plante. Dominik Hasek has played 
extraordinarily well in goal as of late. By the 
numbers, he’s the best in the NHL right now. 
Grade: B-.
Calgary Flames (preseason: B-): If you had 
looked at the Flames pre-season and said that 
stars Al Maclnnis, Gary Suter, Kelly Kisio, Mike 
Vernon, and a long list of supporting players were 
all going to be injured simultaneously for an ex­
tended period, you’d probably say they were headed 
for the cellar. Well, that’s exactly what’s happened, 
and the Flames still sit atop the Pacific Division. 
This is testament to the depth of this franchise and 
good on and off ice leadership. They’re not Stanley 
Cup-bound, but they’ll do well. Grade: A-.
Chicago Blackhawks (preseason: B+): Chicago 
had planned on being a division leader. Right now, 
they’re 13 points back in fifth place. Granted, 
they’ve got a winning record, but it isn’t where 
they’d like to be. The Blackhawks’ defense is as 
solid as ever, but the offense just hasn’t been able 
to put the team over the top in the close contests. 
Grade: B-.
Dallas Stars (preseason: C+): Dallas has been 
one of the true surprises of this season. The key is
center Mike Modano, who finally seems to have 
reached his potential. His 27 goals and 53 points 
lead the team. Unfortunately for the Stars, Modano 
is injured and is expected to miss the next four 
weeks. Defensively the team has been solid, but it 
remains to be seen if they can make up for the loss 
of Modano’s offensive leadership. Grade: A-.
Detroit Red Wings (preseason: A): Detroit is an 
offensive-oriented team, and that’s all. Their de­
fensive play has been simply horrible and ranks in 
the lower half of NHL teams. Detroit badly needs 
a true starting goaltender. All four of their current 
netminders—Chris Osgood, Tim Chevaldae, Vince 
Riendeau, and Peter Ing — just can’t cut the 
mustard full-time at the NHL level. Grade: C+.
Edmonton Oilers (preseason: D+): It’s really 
hard to believe that this team won all those Stanley 
Cups. Oh where, oh where have the Oilers gone? 
Oh where, oh where can they be? We knew the 
Oilers would be bad, but THIS bad? Grade: F.
Florida Panthers (preseason: D+): Somebody 
had better take the Panthers aside and remind 
them that new expansion teams aren’t supposed to 
make the playoffs in their first season. Florida is 
just two points out of a playoff berth. The recent 
addition of right wing Bob Kudelski should give a 
big boost to the offense. If rookie center Rob 
Niedermayer and goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck 
stay healthy, watch out. Grade: A.
Hartford Whalers (preseason: C-): Hartford is 
just a mediocre team. They were one pre-season, 
mid-season, and once again they’ll be one post­
season — out of the playoffs. Grade: C-.
Los Angeles Kings (preseason: B-): Is this the 
same team that made it to the Stanley Cup Finals 
last season? Hard to believe, isn’t it? The Kings are 
pathetic but have surged as of late. The team lacks 
size and grit on defense. It’s going to take more 
than Wayne Gretzky having a 150-point season to 
put the Kings back in the playoffs. Grade: D.
Montreal Canadiens (preseason: A): The de­
fending Stanley Cup champions are going to have 
to work at it if they’re even going to get the chance 
to defend their title. Montreal’s main problem is 
that center Kirk Muller has been on a season-long 
cold streak. Defensively, Montreal is the second- 
best team in the NHL. Offensively, they need 
consistency. Grade: B.
New Jersey Devils (preseason: B): Outstand­
ing defense, superb goaltending, and a balanced 
attack have been the key to New Jersey’s success 
this season. The Devils have been one of the top- 
five teams in the league all season, and they’re 
there to stay. The only problem New Jersey has is 
that they get less recognition than many teams 
that are playing awful hockey. Grade: A.
New York Islanders (preseason: B+): The Is­
landers are a tired team, a hurt team, or both. 
Goaltender Ron Hextall can be brilliant, but the 
Islanders’ other goalies are more like second string 
minor leaguers than NHL caliber players. Defense 
has really been the Isles’ problem. They can score 
lots of goals; they just can’t keep their opponents 
from scoring more. Grade: D.
New York Rangers (preseason: A): Ah! At last 
a team that is performing entirely as expected! The 
Rangers are touting the best record in hockey. 
However, questions still remain as to whether or 
not the Rangers are really as talented as they seem 
or if they’ve got several players playing above their 
abilities. When playoff time rolls around, we’ll see 
what the Rangers are really made of. Grade: A.
Ottawa Senators (preseason: D): Who’s on this 
team? Let’s see, there’s Alexei Yashin, Alexandre 
Daigle, and, um, uh, some other guys. They must 
really love hockey in Ottawa for a team this bad to 
sell out every game. Grade: F.
Philadelphia Flyers (preseason: C+): With stars 
like MarkRecchi, Rod Brind’Amour, Garry Galley, 
and Eric Lindros on this team, you’d have to think 
the Flyers would do well. Wrong. The problem is 
that beyond those players, the Flyers haven’t any 
proven depth, particularly in goal. Over the first 22 
games, the Flyers scored nearly five goals per 
game. Over the last 22, they’ve scored less than 
three per game. They’re third in the Atlantic Divi­
sion, but not going any higher. Grade: B-.
Pittsburgh Penguins (preseason: A): Pittsburgh 
has played great hockey, but not as great as they’re 
capable of. Why? Injuries. Mario Lemieux should 
return, hopefully. Goaltender Tom Barrasso is out 
indefinitely, and both Rick Tocchet and Kjell 
Samuelsson are lost for at least a month if not 
more. Will the Penguins stay on top? Montreal isn’t 
just knocking on the Penguins’ door, they’re beat­
ing it down. Grade: B+.
Quebec Nordiques (preseason: B): How can a 
young team that is as talented as the Nordiques be 
playing so badly? Simple. Holdouts, inexperience, 
and bad coaching and managing. Pierre Page, the 
coach and general manager, isn’t going to be win­
ning any awards for his work with the Nordiques. 
Quebec needs a trade and soon. Grade: C-.
St. Louis Blues (preseason: B-): St. Louis is in 
desperate need of offensive depth. Beyond their 
number one unit of Brett Hull, Craig Janney, and 
Brendan Shanahan, they haven’t got any scorers. 
Defense is a problem too. The Blues allow more 
shots on goal than any other team. Fortunately, 
goalie Curtis Joseph has met the challenge. Grade: 
B.
San Jose Sharks (preseason: D): The Sharks 
are still a dismal team. The only teams with worse 
records are Edmonton and Ottawa. There doesn’t 
seem to be any end in sight, either. The Sharks’ 
defense is adequate, but they can’t score consis­
tently. Grade: F.
Tampa Bay Lightning (preseason: D): Hot and 
cold. Hot and cold. That’s the story of the Light­
ning. The line in the mouths of fans is, “Well, 
maybe next year.” At least they’re playing better 
than the Islanders in the Atlantic Division, but 
that’s not saying much. Grade: D.
Toronto Maple Leafs (preseason: B): The Leafs 
have been one of the top-five teams all season. The 
only question that remains is can the team survive 
key injuries? Sniper Wendel Clark is out with a foot 
injury and star winger Dave Andreychuk is just
Hockey club prepares to mount challenge for league title
By KYMBERLY M. BARTLO
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Ice Hockey Club re­
takes the ice in their first home 
game of the semester against Pitt- 
Johnstown in an exhibition game 
on Sunday at Golden Mile Arena.
The Tartans are in third place 
in Division I of the W estem Penn­
sylvania College Hockey Associa­
tion (WPCHA) standings with a 
win/loss record of 3-2. First in 
the standings is West Virginia 
University (WVU) who beat the 
Tartans earlier this season in a 
9-1 victory. The second place 
team is Penn State West. CMU 
won 4—0 against Penn State West 
last semester.
“There is no doubt in my mind 
that WVU is the team to beat. It’s 
our goal to beat them at the end of 
the year, and I’m certain that we 
will,” said junior right wing John 
Cardillo.
The Tartans have a full sched­
ule of Saturday night and Sun­
day night games until the playoff 
semi-finals in Greensburg on
February 26.
Grad student and coach Dave 
Umland said, “I think we’ll be 
pretty solid this semester. We 
had two injured players last se­
mester who are back now. We 
have three good lines ... We’re 
shooting for WVU, and we’re go­
ing to win the Championship. 
We’re going for it all this year.”
Pennsylvania Governor’s School for the Sciences
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU will be available with the 
Pennsylvania Governor’s School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a five- 
week summer school for very talented high school students from 
Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/Counselor appointments will be available 
for biology, chemistry, and physics laboratories, as well as tutorial duties 
in computer science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to upper level scholastically sound applicants. 
You will be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory counselors 
and to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the 
PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the 
academic program, and conduct social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1000-$1400
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board.
School is in session from June 26 to July 30.
Counselor duties begin June 23, end July 30
Applications for an interview are available in DH 2201.
For further information, contact Gerry Rensko, x 8-6669. 
Application Deadline: March 1, 1994.
classified
back from being hurt. Overall, it’s really hard to 
find any faults in the Maple Leafs. Grade: A.
Vancouver Canucks (preseason: B+): The 
Canucks have been scoring plenty of goals, but 
they can’t hold their opponents in check. Fortu­
nately for Vancouver, the entire Pacific Division is 
playing awful hockey, except for themselves and 
Calgary. They’ll make the playoffs, but that’s about 
it. Grade: B.
Washington Capitals (preseason: B+): The Caps 
have struggled to stay in playoff contention all 
season. Scoring is down and their defense hasn’t 
been up to par. The Caps need defenseman Kevin 
Hatcher to be healthy down the stretch and more 
production from forwards Mike Ridley and Dimitri 
Khristich. Grade: B-.
Winnipeg Jets (preseason: B): The Jets have no 
defense. The only team that has allowed more 
goals than the Jets is the Ottawa Senators. Team 
defense is an all-around problem for the defensemen 
as well as Winnipeg’s forwards. Offense is sound, 
even though players like Teemu Selanne, Keith 
Tkachuk, and Alexei Zhamov are far off their paces 
of last season. Grade: C.
Now, here’s my current predictions for the indi­
vidual player awards given at the end of each 
season:
Hart Memorial Trophy CMost valuable player):
Winner: John Vanbiesbrouck, goaltender, 
Florida.
Runners-up: Sergei Fedorov, center, Detroit; 
Doug Gilmour, center, Toronto.
Calder Memorial Trophy tRookie of the year):
Winner: Martin Brodeur, goaltender, New Jer­
sey.
Runners-up: Alexei Yashin, center, Ottawa; 
Mikael Renberg, left wing, Philadelphia.
James Norris Memorial Trophy (Best 
defenseman):
Winner: Brian Leetch, New York Rangers.
Runners-up: Garry Galley, Philadelphia; Scott 
Stevens, New Jersey.
Venzinai Trophy (Best goaltender):
Winner: Patrick Roy, Montreal.
Runners-up: Curtis Joseph, St. Louis; Mike Rich­
ter, New York Rangers.
Frank J. Selke Trophy (Best defensive for­
ward):
Winner: Sergei Fedorov, center, Detroit.
Runners-up: Doug Gilmour, center, Toronto; Kirk 
Muller, center, Montreal.
Lady Byng Memorial Trophy (Best sports­
manship & excellent play):
Winner: Joe Sakic, center, Quebec.
Runners-up: Stephane Richer, left wing, New 
Jersey; Wayne Gretzky, center, Los Angeles.
That’s it for now. Next Saturday night is the 
annual display of offense and bad goaltending 
called the NHL All-Star Game at Madison Square 
Garden in New York. My column next week will 
take a different tack on the concept of “all-stars.”
Allan Bourdius is a fifth-year senior double ma­
jor in applied history and industrial management.
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
BOOKS WANTED
Townsend Booksellers.
We buy thousands of worthwhile books 
in all scholarly and technical subjects 
and the arts. Best prices paid or 
generous trade credit. Visit us for out-of- 
print, used, and rare books. Open daily: 
Monday — Saturday, 11-6 pm, Sunday 
l-5pm. Near campus at 4612 Henry St. 
(off S. Craig) 682-8030.
POR SALE
JOBS
Driver wanted. Responsible student to 
pick up eighth grade student in Point 
Breeze after school, 3 pm Monday — 
Friday, deliver to campus; call 681-2564, 
leave message.
¡JOUSING
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776
1987 Acura Legend, four door, excellent 
condition. Sun roof, air conditioned. Best 
offer. Call 276-65970
TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994
Cancún, Bahamas, Jamaica, Florida &
Padre!
110 percent Lowest Price Guarantee! 
Organize 15 friends and your trip is free! 
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL 
(800) 328-7283
Deadline 
Deadline for submis­
sion of classifieds to 
The Tartan is 5 pm the 
Thursday before pub­
lication.
Send your ads now!!
Let the Classifieds work for you! 
Send your classified ad with 
payment today!
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words..........$5 per week
21-50 words........$8 per week
51 -100 words.....$10 per week
• Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date.
• On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by 
journal transfer with a valid 
account number.
• Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to display 
ads.
• The Tartan is published on the 
following Mondays: 1/24, 1/31, 
2/7, 2/14, 2,21, 3/7, 3/14, 3/ 
21,4/11,4/18, 4/25.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
- ,.r.

---------------------------------------------------

dossier
LITERATURE & DESIGN
magazine
are now being accepted.
all kinds of writing.
give to tartan office in skibo
or place in dossier folder on
the tartan server.
Apple LaserWriter NT
CREATE
Apple Macintosh SE 
$150°°
deadline for issue #4
january 26th
Microtek 300Z Color Scanner*
»NOT FULLY FUNCTIONAL
write your words
All prices are negotiable. All sales are final No pushy salesperson will bother you, so stop by and see our 
showroom in Skibo, Room 50. Send mail to tartan@andrew.cmu.edu for more information.
Carnegie Mellon’s student newspaper since 1906
THE TARTAN is currently looking for students to 
become a part of one of the largest student organizations on campus, (fill sections of the 
newspaper art in nee4 of new stäffmembers.
S
: TARTAN wants you as a staffmember in any of
Trustees approve demolition Board declareselect|0ns invaIld
Government secrecy 
only creates problems
Tartans end season with 56-0 win
CMU beat Case Western Reserve U. for the Academic Bowl
ir spring recruitment meeting 
¡tors of each section, and em<°Lntcrnationai festival 1993
Campus exptores countries oj gricci
Dancers' Symposium creates an impressionAlmee
Mann
performsTuesday, January 18 
Skibo Room 13 6:30 pm
THE TARTAN is located in Skibo Room 50. Stop by or give us a call at 268-2111.
For Sale:

---------------------------------------------------

1EP. CHRISTMAS 
15 JUS! AROUND 
THE CORNER
AMD WHAT BETTER WAY TO 
CELEBRATE A RELIGIOUS 
HOLIDAY THAW WITH A 
MONTH OF FRENZIED CONSUMERISM
WRE supposed to Wit until r hike 
—V THE BALL.r'
I'M SURPRISED 
OTHER RELIGIONS
Aristd eholsa
UP ON THAT.
DARN TIGERS. YOU CAN 
EXPLAIN THE ROLES To 
'EM. BUT 100 CANT SUPPRESS 
THEIR SURPRISE POUNCE 
INSTINCT.
GETTING LDApS 
OF LOOT IS A 
SERY SPIRITUAL 
EXPERIENCE 
FOR ME.
OOPS
SORRY
ARE You knMmzwgu3 HqVt 
You Go psu StNiLE ?-> C^U't You Rtfld ?j> OR qRfc foU
JUS+ a ViN4ictiVe, tWMCd 
ELF BEm ON dEStRoYiNs 
Li Car Kids' 4nregi MloUvs
AMd EVER* fE^R You 
cqLtousu-i IclbFs ¡V qNd 
’FIfc ns PftflCfiWU THiNdS 
I AoN> WqHt "V qlL . 
WHqV's WE dEaL?/
DEaR SqN+a,
EVERS YEqR qV TUiS TiME 
I SEN4 RbD q List oF 
;-YH-|qV I WqNt F°R \ CHRiS+M^S
ICUR DADS WHAT IF HES 
GOING INTO TURNING INTO 
THE FUTURE SOME KIND OF 
KICKING AND SUBVERSWE ?YEResidnt . x
hHtd Asg f "'TVy
THEN WE SKtt HE WAS GOING 
TO BUS THE BXX WITH CASH. 
SO N0&)DS <J*JLD TRACE "WE 
WRCHASE TO ph& AW EUPlOIT 
HIS INTERESTS FOR - 
COMMERCIAL
WRPOSES. JJi | J3_
SOU MI6HT 
WANT TO 
SLEEP ON 
TH\S ONE.
HE SAID UE WANTED TO 
READ SOMETHING LONG, RICH. 
AND TViOJGUT- PRoVoKiuG FOR 
A CUWGE, AND UE WANTED 
A CLOTH BINDING 33 HIS 
&COK COJLD BE CARRIED 
SC-VzY SzY CwCwSY 'S/wCu
I KNOW, BUT 
IT FELT GOOD 
TO WRITE IT.
YESTERDAY DAO WENT 
CUT TO BUY A ' 
Hf&DCCNER __X 
KOVEL.
I-CQH oNLS coNCLudE -HAqt YouR SECRETaRiaL sVqFF MUSt BE « BvlHcH of UNdER-Pqid QNd V<oEFuIlY UHPRtpaRtd TEWS, aNd Mi LETTER VMS MiSFiLEd-
To aVoid a. SiMiwR diSqstE* 
tttiS YE«R. jW WR\VE ME 
a CHECK FoR. FiVE MiLLioN 
doLLqRs. qsd ILL BUY 
THE SiuFF VtfSEWF.
SEE. THIS ^ 
YEAR I 
MONT BE 
DISAPPOINTED.
D£qR oGfTur
Last YE<*R I did NoV 
Csoshis .ys IH«bbb itEHS 
I «EQUttfcd FoRCUR\StM«S
DID SOU KNOW MOM CAN 
COMMUNICATE TELEPATHICAU.S ?MOM. CAN I GET A 
BIG TATTOO? I WANT 
A WINGED SERPENT COIUHG 
ARCUNO ONE ARM. CLUTCHING 
A SHIP ON MS CHEST, WITH...
.UM... I MEW. 
... WELL.... SIGHHHH.
ENCLoSEd is a List oF WHqf 
I W^NT V°R CHR\Si M«s. 
PLEASE. doNV CoNF^SE ^ List 
witH CqLviN’s. THERE QRE d1b <idS a* TMis HOUSE Now.
nSzu hE MSz/S 
PS''M P-C /pkMu 
kT'' SYY S zw5 
’C-/pwC wJwCR 
u RwSCU
MELVILLE"DEQR SQWTq,
HELLo, I «iM CQLV'N’S NEVJ 
BQBY BRotHER-. MELyiLLE
BECAUSE SONE0AY 
MY TAX DOLLARS 
WILL BE PAYING 
R5R YOUR PRISON 
CELL
l‘m gonna \ YOUD BETTER 
pound You I BE NICE TO 
at rec«S. I ME . MOE.
Twirvk'f. h--------y------------'
MY WVbLE PROBLEM 
IS Ml UPS MOVE 
WHEN I THINK. .
-SCW WACW. EVERYTHING 
I AM.. MS UNIQUE SP\R\T 
AND PERSONALITY... EVER) - 
r THING THAT 
MAKES ME
OiV Ron
_IS DEPENDENT ON THE 
PROPER FUNCT\ON\NG Of 
THIS COMPLEX. FRAGILE 
AND MIRACVJLOOS CHUNK 
OF MEAT THAT \S MY 
BODY
htdsFsHdht!
OBSERVATION
VJELL, IT 
JUST
OCCURRED 
TO ME .
~WU\CU MEANS I CAN'T 
PASTE ANYONE WITH A 
SNOWBALL... WWCH MEANS 
I'M GOOD... WH\CU MEANS 
l'U. GET IOTS OF CHRISTMAS 
PRESENT5HA/
NOTHING \N LIFE 
\S EVER EASY.
MAYBE THAT'S, WHS 
\TS HARD TO TELL 
IF WE’RE IN A 
TRAGEDY OR A 
FARCE A
WE NEED MORE 
SPECIAL EffECVS 
AND DANCE NOMBEBS
BUT OBVVOOSLY THE
eOrN IH DtFsAsrFHsa
*ND EVcRYBODS ___x-
1S AD-HBBlNG 
HIS HUES yf -
THEY SAY 
THE WORLD 
\S A 
STAGE.
WE GOT THIS SNOW S3 ID 
BE TEMPTED TO SMACK 
SUSIE WITH A SLUSHBALL
—-s--------, AND FORFEIT
£*>.1 AU. MS
1 CHRISTMAS Z. \ PCc«:cMrc:
PCOR /VTSrtoTA-
^¦J FOREGQHE CONCLUSION!
TO EVALUATE MS CHARACTER 
MS IMMEDIATE PLEASURE IS 
BEING PITTED KSAINST MS 
______ FUTURE GREEP.'
t§r==.Poo
a"
cr
CD

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Ill there.
don't be alarmed.
A Ri 
Stev*
A Romance for Men
Stev*n James Dallas
ChappterOne
Francesco, his aim hair wafting in the Iowa wind, 
swung slwoly in the porch swing, his legs, lithe but 
muscled, filling his socks fully.
He gazed out upon the barren dust of 
his farm, his marriage and his life.
Suddenly, a pick-up stopped before 
him. The door opened and out 
stepped...
LOCK!Mew,Hsy/'vswcm cmuet&ep , fvcm / wsmrzL 
—
f ..mat aRkSig I MOfnmpeR ’ mrsieFTTo
' -me-M/cwscwrSW-TYCm'
cusee. ineuim>‘s j meírmrreCfW * 
/iMSMW’i lap. >
miKKOFim me/ae/s
ar tnN c %ev, ¦nmi-mr?
h me.'moKMATlimmsmous
cwzeNume»1 
amoop r/? -mea<
N&crmeeK!
mm omeri ernesJUST CCNSS FOR HISammsup•meeucv

---------------------------------------------------

mtwtiKsim joyiesô ecwsOFHtôseAme
CASTLE,
ßs. HI-TECH mAW MO ¡xmsof'mcoôT ; mLPOFMSYOZm-.
\A LÔtkv, mmzpmN.. arrive er HiómeR MPA düteecHv, m-vunt I mistress..
..Amupeeme-rue pReMurfes.eefORe'rye, 6M...36ftXE-m MICROPROCESSOR.
-me mu?
Mpwe..

---------------------------------------------------

Call x8-2111. 
Ask for one of the Art 
Co-Editors. Ramsey Hong 
or Mark Eggert.
or you could come to our fabulous recruitment 
meeting at skibo room 13 on tuesday, January 18 at 6:30 pin. free pizza, it'll be cool.
^HhI' f^Hevim I ^I I Ly\ / if
pMk p«/yA 
^~ 1 /
3^!/ (mm 35™) Jssk (~mrT\
Iff ^
( 357 WOWy \
/ FGRTY Id JJ5T J ( WAVPtP. Jj 
AKOJN— /W^—y-—¦%
m
... ¦ V »Sill -¦
iK.vo'mjW! 001 LOOK UK6 
SOVR OWMNt-
gmOHH 7"h,a ^
EdioSI/pg
H//TH
ByPlea iTnis^

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

(Ii ft L-auJfence
guidance Counselor.
bb-'e
youngest StSfcr °f . mo-tkrf If'fs*. RodCelre.
Sidney /-¿“(Wfrtfh « 
-/ôr' Wie Bewy ffl|| shovj.
J)oiq Grey do heS’rortifr +ô T^rztar,.
„ Lumbe-jûfK. Dte* 
-f?om infefrd badger bite.
o3Sbnffî*far*fcjnÀW.Ibur- /“¡ner.
lErddie Mofo AfuncfibiTc/f of Middle Comrrmnify College, 
charifeof dtsmiisa! be/l ¦
THE FAR SIDE
“Excuse me, Captain, but while we’re waiting, 
would you like to join the crew and 
myself for a little snorkeling?"
Iggy knew he was extremely lucky 
to get a room with a view.
The questions were getting harder, and Ted could 
feel Lucky’s watchful glare from across the room. 
He had been warned, he recalled, that this was 
a breed that would sometimes test him.
"OK, everyone, we’ll be departing for Antarctica 
in about 15 minutes.... If anyone thinks he may be 
in the wrong migration, let us know now."
“Dang it, Morty!... You’re always showing this picture 
of me you took at 7 o’clock in the morning!"
In their sibling's shadowSuddenly, the car struck a pothole, the giovebox flew 
open, and Sparky knew the date was basically over.
"No, no.... Not this one. Too many bells and whistles."

---------------------------------------------------

"OK, I got one—do you say ‘darn it' or 'dern it’?"
<r
THE FAR SIDE
¦i
His few friends had told him he could never 
buy it, but Mr. Crawley surmised that they 
just didn't know where the store was.
pi ---------r
|sbMEriME5
Crucial decisions along life’s highway
¦j :i .. r ft v -, : . : - T r
Zeke froze. For thé longest time, all he could 
do was stare at the chocolate mint that 
“someone" had placed on his bedroll.
It was an innocent mistake, but nevertheless, 
a moment later Maurice found himself receiving 
the full brunt of the mummy’s wrath.

---------------------------------------------------

There 
it is!,Whoomp!) j)
tyr.ir
Do NOT GWE 
THE B'RDS 
DUTCH RUBS
“Hey! You don't tel! me what makes 'er tick! 
I know what makes 'er tick, sonny boy!”
‘Well, I just feel like I’m living under a microscope.
X ^ruppot.r^ufipeM?..! "This onfs had!.* 
Zippo?.-Zipp.uU?.
S Nipper! Yesjhah ;+J kY:Crzipper! x'^fferfsrqh'- Arrrr^' Arrr'rfr'ff^h'i
\^\CVvE0 TtÆ
Professor Wainwright’s painstaking field research 
to decode the language of bears comes to a 
sudden and horrific end.
Specialized obituariesProfessor Ferrington and his controversial theory 
that dinosaurs were actually the discarded 
“chicken” bones of giant, alien picnickers.
mM
‘Oh, not you, mister!... I was referring to 
something here from my dog, Nimka."‘This just makes me sick!... Sickl... Why, in mj 
we collected wild heads from the jungle! 
...These things are all sissies'."
Expatriates, they migrated in the 1920s to Paris' 
Left Bank, gathering in their favorite haunts and 
discussing the meaning of cream pies and big shoes. 
They were, in fact, the original Boclownians.

---------------------------------------------------

WW TW» T /\rannnraraiMinw
Volume 88, Issue 13The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 January 1994Beating winter doldrums
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Features Co-Editor
s you spend time each day arming 
and disarming yourself against the cold 
[ofkvinter—donningboots, coats, scarves, 
hats, and gloves, trudging through snow 
, slipping on ice, climbing out of a 
warm slumber to face the chilling winds 
the drones of professors — think 
spring! The season of warmth and green­
ery is not as far off as it seems, and there 
¿re many activities here on campus to 
veep you preoccupied until its arrival. 
Although some days are better spent 
i bed, there are a few slightly more 
jroductive ways to escape the cold and 
naybe have some fun too. Keep to the 
engthy indoor events, preferably the 
ines with free food and hot chocolate to 
varm those bones. Lectures fit nicely 
nto this category. This semester the Art 
Department Lecture Series has several 
juests, including Christopher Sperandio 
md Jessica Stockholder, bothNew York 
irtists, speaking on January 25 and 
j'ebruary 8. Jerry Abramson, art histo- 
•ian, will be speaking on February 22 
followed by another series of guest art­
ists speaking throughout the rest of the 
ipring.
It is also highly recommended to check 
Dutthe English Department in particu- 
,ar for frequent readings of poetry, fic- 
;ion, and non-fiction. Readings take 
>lace in the Adamson Wing on Friday 
evenings at seven with a reception 
bllowing. Look forward to Robert 
5ibb, poet, on February 11, Kitsi 
Patterson, non-fiction writer, on 
vlarch 4, and Ellen Currie, fiction 
writer, on March 18. There will be 
it-her readings to be announced 
ater in the semester, including 
poet, Dara Wire. The student 
lading series, Pterodactyl 
Speedway, held every other 
'hursday in Scotland Yard, 
ill also be continuing this 
¡emester.
If you want to do some- 
ling, but do not want to 
jpend any time thinking 
‘bout lecture topics or 
Interpreting avante- 
;arde poetry, seeing a 
f lay may be the way 
go. Drama stu­
dents sponsor several free shows in the 
studio theater; the professionalism and 
talent is quite surprising. If you missed 
Illusion last week, check out some of 
these other upcoming possibilities: Hair­
dresser on Fire, and Manhunt are show­
ing February 3-5, followed by Kiss Me on 
the Bus, and 
The Innocence 
of Genius show­
ing February 
17-19. Senior 
projects, such as 
Etta Jenks,
T r o i I u s 
Cressida, and 
HandMeDown, 
will be appear­
ing during the 
semester as 
well. For other 
student work by 
non-theater
majors, check out Scotch ‘n Soda’s pro­
duction of Gods and Cats, coming out in 
early spring. There will also be more 
extensive productions held in Kresge 
Theater; Sweeney Todd, the Demon Bar­
ber of Fleet Street runs February 10-26, 
and Saturday, Sunday, Monday opens 
April 14.
Movies are also another possibility, 
especially considering the one dollar 
admission at the Doherty 2210 show­
ings. If there are some hits out now that 
you would like to see, check out these 
coming attractions before running out 
and spending the big money in local 
theaters. Fatal Instinct, Addams Fam­
ily Values, Wayne’s World II and Mrs. 
Doubtfire will be on campus soon, inter­
spersed with other great flicks such as
Citizen Kane and Annie Hall.
Other entertainment possibilities in­
clude events sponsored by the Activi­
ties Board. You have actually paid for 
these events with your activities fee, 
so take advantage of as many as pos­
sible. There is always a wide selection 
of comedians and 
bands; Wendy 
Liebman with special 
guests Mitch Mullony 
and Selected Hilarity 
will start the semester 
with a night of comedy 
on January 29. Bar­
bara Bailey Hutch­
ison, entertainer, and 
A Night of Poetry and 
Piano with Michael 
McClure, poet, and 
Ray Man-zarek, for­
merly of The Doors, on 
piano are among the 
line up of events for February and 
March.
If you prefer aural stimulation, look 
into some of these student recitals: 
Douglas Basye, double bass (January 
20), Sue Ann Forbat, cello (January 
24), Ju Hee Kim, flute (January 28), 
Tim Tan, violin (January 30), and 
Heather Barsum, percussion (Janu­
ary 30). Other musical performances 
during this month include Student 
Chamber Music (January 25), 
Cuarteto Latinoamericano (January 
22), and Jazz Ensemble (January 29).
For those of you feeling less slothish 
despite the dreariness of the season, 
there are some slightly more ambula­
tory activities which may appeal to 
you. Hewlett and Forbes galleries have'-
WHAT DO YOU DO TO GET RID OF 
YOUR WINTER BLAHS?
"I mix up a pitcher of çnargaritas, put on country skiing is one of my favorite ways 
some Jimmy Buffet CDs, and drink till the to do that.”
sun is shining." Amy Ginther, assistant director of hous-
Tim Mallo, GSO president ing for operations
“SKI!!! It changes your whole attitude 
toward winter!"
Hugh Young, professor of physics
"To get over the Winter Blahs I watch 
Seinfeld and exercise during the commer­
cials."
Tim Foster, director of housing
“. ..I like to have some friends over, maybe 
make some cookies and hot chocolate, 
and either watch videos or play Scrabble. ” 
Lara Wolfson, former president of GSO
“I dig a trench six feet deep, fill it with 
gasoline, light a match, and jump in!" 
David Wolpert, student government presi­
dent
"... a good blah-fighting technique is to 
continue to enjoy the outdoors. Cross
"Sing ‘Fight for the Glory of Carnegie.’ 
Late'at night.
On the Cut.
In the snow.
Wearing a kilt.”
Michael Murphy, dean of student affairs
"Play basketball twice a week, play drums 
when I find the time(and won’tdisturb the 
neighbors!), watch good movies, and lis­
ten to the classics(RUSH, YES, Queen, 
etc.)!"
Harriet Schwartz, assistant to the dean 
of student affairs
"I try to exercise three to four times a 
week and always keep in mind that we 
are headed towards spring ...”
President Robert Mehrabian
Please see QUOTES, on page L4
ever-changing shows of artwork to en­
rich and expand your mind. If you are 
feeling particularly explorative, check 
out the third floor of the CFA as well to 
see current student work on display in 
the hallways.
If you really want to become involved 
in something to actively beat the slug­
gish blues, head over to the gym. You can 
work out there for free in the weight 
rooms or on the exercise machines, or 
pay just a buck to participate in an 
aerobics class. If you are more the 
competitive type, check out the in­
tramural sports happening now.
You still have enough time to 
get a team together and regis­
ter for basketball, floor 
hockey, or even pinnacle 
by the end of January. 
There are surely a 
strange group of you 
out there who not 
only want to ac­
tively partici­
pate in some­
thing, but 
also want 
to ac­
tively 
par­
ticipate in something outside. Campus 
Ski Connection has a ski outing every 
Saturday to Seven Springs for night ski­
ing. The prices are really reasonable 
because of the group discount. The only
warning: wear at least three sets of long 
johns.
Many other clubs and groups on cam­
pus hold events regularly to which any­
one is welcome. You might want to check 
out the Gaming Club on Saturdays if you 
are interested in Magic, Diplomacy, or 
any other popular card and board games. 
On Thursday, there will be an Activities 
Fair in Skibo so that you can look into 
and explore some new clubs and ac­
tivities that you might be curious 
about. Take advantage of every­
thing you can, but, most of all, 
have fun and keep warm 
until spring gets here!
nL

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 1994
Spending vacation with dishpan hands
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
Through some as yet unexplain­
able psychic phenomenon, I knew 
that as soon as I got home for 
vacation, things were not going 
to go the way I had planned. I 
think the many summer, winter, 
and spring vacations I had 
through high school conditioned 
me for this sort of expectation. 
Those were happy-go-lucky times 
when I could count on doing two 
things — nothing and dishes.
Yes, we do have a dishwasher 
(other than me), but it’s one of the 
antique kinds where you have to 
hook lots of little black hoses up 
to a kitchen faucet. My mother 
refuses to use it except on holi­
days, because itis downstairs and 
the kitchen is upstairs.
She says it is too tiring to go up 
and down the stairs taking dishes 
back and forth. This, you must
understand, is from a woman who 
walks around our block six times 
a day. I tried to reason with her 
that one could get even more ex­
ercise going up and down the 
stairs a few times, and the dishes 
would be done and put away in 
the process.
She dismissed this brilliant 
point as another one of my ex­
cuses not to do another heinous 
load of dishes. I wonder how they 
manage while I am not here?
When last I heard, they were 
grooming my little brother into 
the job. My big brother escaped 
this responsibility only by being 
out of the house at just the right 
time, and then later joining the 
Air Force. Lucky guy.
Soon after the virtuesrof-dish- 
washing-by-hand episode, my 
grades came back, which was an 
episode unto itself. And not one 
decent man, woman, or child 
would like to hear about.
I’d also like to note that this 
happened three days before 
Christmas Day.
My little brother (the only one 
anxious for Christmas morning 
because he gets all the cool stuff) 
woke me up at six something-or- 
other so we could open the gifts
together as a family; as a family 
early in the morning, that is.
I got shirts, one of which looks 
like pizza vomit magnified under 
a microscope. I’ve given up ask­
ing for anything cool because my
birthday is a month before Christ­
mas, so now I always get “di­
luted” presents. I got a clock ra­
dio (and I needed neither a clock
nor a radio), a mug with a picture 
on it from a book I did not read, 
and the aforementioned shirts.
What I really NEEDED were 
pants to go with the said shirts, 
but there are no pants I know of 
that look 
like pizza 
vomit, un­
less I ven­
ture to 
make a pair 
myself.
Soon after 
t h a t , I 
looked for­
ward to just 
doing noth­
ing (and 
dishes, of 
course).
But fate de­
cided that I 
had enough 
of doing 
nothing and 
dumped 
two feet of
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor snow all over.
And so, a shovelin’ I was for 
four straight days. (Come to think 
of it, I got a lot of exercise during 
that time). The thing was, our
road was one of the last in the 
area to be plowed.
When at last it was plowed, a 
ton of snow was planted right 
back in our driveway, which I 
had spent many long and tedious 
hours clearing. As if my back 
wasn’t sore enough, back out I 
went. Luckily by now the snow 
blower was fixed, and it was a big 
help tearing down the newly 
formed wall of snow.Until, of 
course, it ran out of gas, and then 
it was my job to trudge to the 
nearest gas station for more juice. 
It was better than facing that 
shovel again, though.
We have a pond and a lot of 
hills in our backyard. It’s the best 
place to go sled riding, especially 
after shoveling. Kids from all over 
the neighborhood flock there 
when there’s enough snow to go 
flying down our hills at 60 miles 
per hour. That I have no problem 
with. My problem: trying to con­
vince a few kids that our frozen 
pond is not to be used as a tram­
poline. You can only yell “STAY 
OFF THE DAMN POND!!” so 
much before you just plain lose it.
And finally, the last official ac­
tivity of my vacation was watch­
ing figure skating with my fam­
ily. My parents like to watch si^t 
ing to see the skaters fall. The. 
(and I) were not disappoint 
The people that went to the OljJ, 
pics were the ones that did no 
fall; we didn’t see many of tfien
(Aside: Whoever hurt Nsnf 
Kerrigan should be hit ove¥rt], 
head with a rod while Gilfigj 
Gottfriedis screamingin his %e
Watching those figure s 
on the ice (literally) reminded 
of an idea for an invention-liaV( 
a TV that you can program ^ 
a few quotes. Then, wheriev^ 
you’re watching skating andyo; 
see him/her hit the deck, yotiV’a; 
press a button and “OOOHHH!!! 
would flash on the screen,
Fun stuff, huh? And to th’iftfc 
wanted that vacation to end.’9^ 
it’s time to start reading t%$ 
overpriced textbooks and get t 
work. Lucky for me I regain! 
the feeling in my dishpan har«!
Tom Harper, MCS freshtnm 
is actually looking forwafd t 
doing his homework instead 6}d 
those dishes. He didn’t write abl-. 
when the car broke down in ti 
middle of the Squirrel Hill fe 
nel because he’s much too 
pressed.
Highlander Cafe offering wellness starting yesterday
II
It RSS
L Äs
Askew, No Shoes
by Matt Messner
Good afternoon readers. In a 24-hour community 
such as CMU, it is often difficult deciding how to 
greet people. To say, “Good night,” usually implies 
one is going to sleep, but seldom does the darkness 
deter our studies.
In an effort to resolve this problem, I hereby put 
forward this logical proof — Today always suc­
ceeds yesterday .Yesterday at 12 pm, it was noon. 
Therefore, anytime today is automatically after 
noon. So I welcome you back to my happy land of 
mirrors and bid you once again, - good afternoon.
The Highlander Café has revamped its services 
and produced menu/propaganda pamphlets stat­
ing such. According to their statement, a wellness 
offering is available at dinner.What exactly is a 
wellness offering? Does this mean you can receive 
free antacid?
If wellness is a separate item, does this mean 
nothing else is healthy to eat? Why can’t one 
receive such an offering at breakfast or lunch? 
Expiring minds want to know.
Perhaps they have been slipping drugs into the 
food to help their produced image take a subcon­
scious hold. I’m not sure any more. I think I like 
Highlander ...
We now bring you to our official Andrew filing 
system paragraph.This week we will discuss the 
wonders of macmai...Warning> Server could not 
update state. Reason: Connection timed out.
The following is an unpaid advertisement. How 
do you keep a high-tech computer system cool, 
allow for easy expansion, diagnosis and access, add 
to the aesthetic properties of a room, and cover up 
holes in the wall?
With Wallpaper Computing, of course. We have 
been locked up in the WC with our plans for years 
and have finally reached a finished product. Need 
more RAM? Just paste up another sheet. Better 
video card?Add another sheet.
Require an infindibulator in order to try and take 
over the world?You guessed it, just add another 
sheet.
Due to the breakthrough discovery of electrically 
conductive wallpaper glue, we denizens of the WC 
can install a computer on the wall of your choice for 
low, low prices. How low? So low you may decide 
RAM looks better on the walls than that tacky
Does this mean you can 
receive free antacid?
floral pattern your mother liked.
Order your basic 4x4, 6x6, or 4x8 model today. 
Order now and we’ll send a math coprocessor 
poster too! Caution: do not play darts in the 
vicinity of your computer.
Okay, okay.This column isn’t exactly highly 
stimulating reading. Just think of it as a warm-up 
for the second semester .You probably have to get
used to reading large amounts of dull material and 
I have to learn how to write someday.
It will be easier on us both if you just pretend to 
like my prose. As I have always said (starting 
yesterday), “One brain washes the other.”
How’s my writing? Writing safely and responsi­
bly is important to both me and my employer. Call 
1-800-555-FIVE.
Hazardous waste of printed ma­
terial on board. Makes wide left 
turns just to be different. We 
brake for walls. This column is 
not for consumption. Topical use 
of ink only. Do not operate heavy 
machinery while reading.
If you aren’t getting quite as 
much out of this text as you would 
like, or simply wish to do what is 
environmentally correct, here are 
a few suggestions. This column 
can be used to wallpaper your 
room, make an airplane, become 
instant confetti, wrap small gifts, 
pass notes in class, replace your 
Kleenex, add fiber to your diet, 
defend yourself (paper cuts), im­
prove your aim, play madlibs af­
ter removing the darts, learn how 
not to write, play connect the 
periods, practice the alphabet, 
test your patience, test someone 
else’s (read it aloud), warm your 
room (bum it), and above all scare 
away strangers (pretend you’re 
the author).
Until we meet again, in the
words of Kurt Vonnegut, “If the accident wiH”Tn! 
is barefoot reporting. Good afternoon.
Matt Mesner,freshman in CIT, (mmdm+) ':Il 
section Qasa recitation class. The consequences^ 
this are daunting. Scenes written on locatimr 
Isafjordhur, Iceland. Stunt authors used dum
THEEARA NBeaAtB ingwHetB
HAIRCUTS $16.95
A* (Men and Women) J*
yThe Philip Pclisi* salons offer great 
savings to students. Get the internationally 
acclaimed Volumetric® haircut and related 
services for just $16.95 with selected 
designers. Every haircut appointment 
includes consultation, shampooing, 
conditioning, blow dry and styling and a 
styling lesson!
Present this Ad with Student ID Card to 
get your College Club Discount Card.
Philip Pbuh,i1
A Cut Above the Rest'
Squirrel Hill 
521-1200
One Oxford Centre 
261-Ó550
Century III Mall 
655-1940
Village Square Mall 
833-Ó770
Ross Park Mall 
366-1555
Robinson Town Centre 
788-0204
Monroeville Mall 
372.-7520
Westmoreland Mall 
836-6670
28 Years
INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLERUNIVERSITY
UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN
GREAT BRITAIN 
AUSTRALIA 
IRELAND 
NEW ZEALAND
Fully integrated study at British, Irish,
New Zealand and Australian universities
FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER • FULL YEAR 
INSTEP • SUMMER PROGRAM • INTERNSHIPS
Study Abroad Information Session
Representative: Mikc Rohcr(s
Date: Thurs. Jan. 20, 1994
SKIBO - Main Entrance 
II: 00 - 1:30Location:
h>r tunhcr inl« «rmati« «n please imitaci: Ymir Study Abt««ad Otliie on lampti» 
or tilt* Institute fur Study Abroad. Butler I'nivetMty. -p«00 Sunset Avenue, 
in&iinupolis. IN' -Ki2ok. Te!: 117/2H «*r V «H-» 2 i : t ‘MVi.
MU Dtt SMNg m Bfifetf
BREAK
COMPLETE FIVE S SEVEN NIGHT TRIPS
.Pbuh ,17J9 4.M1T7
71duPT1 g91kh
,1T1I1 k4ud g91kh
C14M"g91C9J kJ99“
PJM1T7P"74.T9d cPJM7
Ib.u1T- 4.M1T7
h4MuPT h917 4.M1T7
gJ9k“9TJ47-9"“9d.uPT9
* PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION / BREAK DATES / LENGTH OF STAY. |OR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION & RESERVATION1*800*SUNCHASE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 1994L3
By TONYA RADO
¡Tartan Features Co-Editor
h'L Upon arriving in Pittsburgh in 
-1984, Herbert Simon, of the Psy­
chology Department immediately 
hi^ed Elaine Atkinson as his sec­
retary- After becoming familiar 
with the Pittsburgh area, she saw 
need to establish a mentoring 
tutoring program for chil­
dren of urban elementary schools. 
JJijnon encouraged her to make 
(her ideas a reality and present 
,tiiem to the administration.
Atkinson has made helping dis­
advantaged youth a priority in 
^er life. Her efforts have earned 
her a Jefferson Award for 1993, 
„yhich recognizes those hard­
working volunteers who serve 
$$ir communities by giving their 
(£igae and talents to help the poor, 
lie mentally ill, the hungry, and 
¿others who need a hand.
¿he is one of eight outstanding 
citizens for 1993 recognized by 
flie Pittsburgh Post Gazette and 
Eat n’ Park restaurants. Each 
£$1 receive the Jefferson medal 
.feoin the American Institute for 
Public Service and a $1000 award 
to the charity of their choice.
One of the eight will be named 
by an institute to represent Pitts­
burgh at an awards ceremony at 
the Supreme Court in Washing­
ton D.C. in June.
The Jefferson medals will be 
presented at a private reception 
February 10,1994 at the Pitts­
burgh Athletic Association in 
¡Oakland. At that time, $1000. 
awards to each winners’ favorite 
-eharity will be presented from 
funds provided by Calgon Corpo­
ration, Duquesne Light, William 
Green and Association Public Re­
lations, Heinz USA, the Jewish 
Hijalth Care Foundation, 
Westinghouse Electric Corpora­
Administrator receives outstanding award
tion, WTAE-TV, Eat ’n Park, and 
The Pittsburgh PostGazette’s 
Dapper Dan Club.
In February 1991, Atkinson 
became thè founder and director 
of the Role Models Program, a 
mentoring and tutoring institu­
tion for children of urban elemen­
tary schools in the Hill District 
when she welcomed about 30 stu­
dents from the A. Leo Weil School 
to CMU for the orientation and 
kick-off of the program. The pro­
gram has grown to involve more 
than 300 students in all five pub­
lic elementary schools in that 
community.
The mission of the Role Models 
Program, which is specifically 
designed for third through fifth 
graders of inner city schools in 
the Hill District, “is to assist stu­
dents in high-risk areas in Pitts­
burgh to increase their academic 
attainment and exposure to posi­
tive role models and opportuni­
ties, while providing support to 
their families,” as stated by the 
program’s executive summary.
The positive role models, men­
tors, and tutors are CMU stu­
dents. Today, between 40 and 55 
children bus to CMU every Mon­
day, Wednesday, and Friday. 
When students graduate from 
elementary school, they join the 
Role Models Alumni program. 
Presently, sixth, seventh, and 
eighth grade students attend the 
Saturday program.
One of the main philosophies 
behind the program is that ex­
posing these children to accom­
plished, ambitious college stu­
dents will inspire them to set 
high goals for themselves.
“From the 1960’s until today, 
middle-class African Americans 
continue to move from inner city 
communities. The exodus of the 
middle-class denies children the
opportunity to see positive, pro­
ductive people who live in their 
own neighborhood; thus commu­
nities are robbed of its most vital 
resources — positive role mod­
els. Exposing inner city children 
to higher education, African 
American students and those of 
many ethnic backgrounds, and
munities,” said Atkinson.
Because disadvantaged com­
munities are alienated from the 
mainstream society, it is difficult 
to expose children of those com­
munities to a positive environ­
ment,” states the program’s sum­
mary. The program aims to “mo­
tivate children to explore ideas of
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor 
Elaine Atkinson, 1993 Jefferson Award winner
providing an opportunity for in­
ner city children to interact in 
many social settings,i.e., cultural 
center, restaurants, ski resorts, 
etc., builds a repertoire of posi­
tive experiences to help combat 
the despair they see in their com­
what they could be when they 
grow up. This is the first step in 
helping children to realize their 
own potential.” The program also 
aims to boost pride and self confi­
dence, so that they can under­
stand how not to feel defeated
when someone alienates them.
Through her experiences with 
motherhood and her love of chil­
dren, Atkinson was inspired by 
her background to launch the 
program. “When I was younger I 
asked myself, why am I suffering 
so much? Why was I born poor? 
Why don’t we have a car? Why 
didn’t anyone tell me about teen­
age pregnancy?” said Atkinson.
At the age of 33, Atkinson lives 
in Squirrel Hill with her husband 
Steven G. Maclsaac and two chil­
dren age 14 and 16. “She is deeply 
committed to helping others in 
situations similar to her early 
years,” said Harriet Schwartz, 
assistant to the dean of student 
affairs at CMU.
“It is my intimate experience 
with being underclass that has 
enabled me not only to under­
stand the thinking processes of 
poor people, but to become an 
independent person, to know the 
process and determination that 
it takes,” said Atkinson.
President Robert Mehrabian 
fully supports the Role Models 
Program. Professor Edwin 
Fenton, the director of the center 
said, “[Mehrabian] has made it 
an official CMU activity, contrib­
uted $12,500 in university funds 
as seed money, and supplied free 
institutional support such as of­
fice space and equipment.”
After Atkinson founded the 
Role Models program, Mehrabian 
appointed her as Assistant Di­
rector of University Outreach. 
Atkinson along with Harriet 
Schwartz, asistant to the dean of 
student affairs, established a 
course in mentoring and tutor­
ing, 99-200, a 6-unit course open 
to all majors. Last spring 25 stu­
dents took the course; involve­
ment doubles each semester.
The Role Models Program is
supported and funded by many 
organizations. The first money 
came from CMU and the Ernest 
Hillman Foundation, and safety 
and appliance Charitable Trust.
Rachanee Royer, a senior 
chemical engineer, who has been 
involved in the Role Models Pro­
gram for six consecutive semes­
ters, helped to coordinate the pro­
gram. “Through my involvement 
in the program I’ve had the chance 
to see positive results in a child 
from the time they first enter the 
program and followed their 
achievement and involvement in 
the program. This program has a 
reason,” Royer said.
Richard Gilmore, a junior 
chemical engineering major, said, 
“There is an opportunity for me 
to give back to the young people 
who don’t necessarily get the op­
portunities that I was given. You 
can’t help but fall in love with all 
of them.”
As Malcom X once said, “Edu­
cation is our prospect to the fu­
ture, for tomorrow belongs to 
those who prepare for it today” 
Role Models is all possible be­
cause of Elaine Atkinson and her 
love for children.
“One of my ultimate goals,” said 
Atkinson, “is to establish a Role 
Models Program in every city 
across the United States.” Aside 
from her dedication to help inner 
city children, Atkinson enjoys 
dancing. She was in the video 
“Misfits in the Attic” in three dif­
ferent slices.
“Atkinson is highly intelligent, 
personable, dedicated, and 
blessed with energy,” Fenton said, 
“She wrote six grant proposals, 
all of which were approved, yield­
ing $500,000 for her programs. 
President Mehrabian should hire 
her to teach the rest of us how to 
make seed money produce.”
From the home office in Skibo ...
Bal 10 reasons to Join AB:
10. Access to the loudest stereo on campus
9. Lots of great t-shirts
The view of campus from the roof of Wean Hall is quite nice 
~ $144,000. 
Did you miss that Saturday movie? 
Backstage passes for every AB show, including concerts 
Learn how to turn off those annoying floodlights on top of Skibo 
Getting to shuttle the performers back and forth from the airport 
The chance to make a difference on this campus 
Free long distance phone calls!
ttlh© 1994U95 Braird
E2£®<euailiiT<i H® lb® Iby
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
Positions available: Coffeehouse, Concerts, Lectures, Special 
Events, Publicity, Secretary, Thursday Films, Friday Films, 
Sunday Films and Chairperson — anything you could possibly 
want!!
—> Applications can be found at the Skibo Info. (Skinfo) Desk.
(All members of the current Board, as well as incoming members should keep Friday 
night, March 11, and Saturday, March 12, free for the annual AB training retreat.)
Do it now!
graciously funded by your Activities Fee •cannegie
mellón

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 1994
Mentors provide direction for grads
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Feature Co-Editor
Once every month, graduate 
students gather together for an 
informal seminar and a free 
1: inch. This month’s topic, “Find­
ing a Mentor,” proved to be an­
other successful and informative 
lecture in the Graduate Student 
Seminar Series (GSSS).
Angela Hickman, SCS, and 
Susan Graul, assistant professor 
of chemistry, kicked off this 
semester’s first lecture with help­
ful ideas, personal reflections, and 
informal discussion. Their knowl­
edge and insights enlightened 
those present to the secrets of 
establishing and maintaining a 
successful mentor relationship.
A mentor is “someone who pro­
vides knowledge,” said Hickman, 
although “there is a more inti­
mate, personal relationship with 
a mentor” than with advisors and 
professors.
Mentors can provide the ser­
vices of an advisor by guiding a 
student through classes, re­
search, and job searches, but they 
also tend to provide information 
on a more personal and helpful 
level to the student mentoree.
As the personal relationship 
builds, the experiences between 
the mentor and the student often 
become more intimate and ben­
eficial.
Mentors can help students 
learn how to network and estab­
lish personal connections in their 
field. Sometimes mentors can 
even be the direct source for a job 
opportunity.
Hickman said, “A mentor/ 
mentoree relationship is one of 
the things that promotes greater 
success” because a mentor pro­
vides knowledge from the aspect 
and level of understanding of 
what the student is trying to ac­
complish academically and, even­
tually, professionally.
The mentor most likely went 
through the same stresses and 
worries that the student is expe­
riencing for the first time.
Mentors, therefore, are also a 
good venting source for problems 
because they will not only listen 
and personally understand, but 
the will also be able to give the 
most helpful advice.
“Mentors are also good for the 
‘stuckness’ problem,” said 
Hickman. They provide support, 
help improve motivation, and can 
help solve problems when stuck 
in research.
The secret to getting a mentor 
is that, “you must look for men­
tors,” said Hickman. There is not 
a magic formula because 
“mentoringrelationships are like 
other personal relationships; they 
take chemistry.”
It is necessary to feel a natural 
connection, and therefore it is 
fruitless to try to make someone 
a mentor.
It is often more helpful to have
a mentor in one’s own depart­
ment for a more direct connection 
to opportunities in that field, but 
it may be necessary to search for 
a mentor elsewhere as well.
Look at faculty and staff mem­
bers in other departments and 
majors; also consider talking with 
guest speakers and people from 
other colleges until the right con­
nection is established.
Senior graduate students can 
also be good mentors. It is impor­
tant to seek out the amount of 
help and type of support neces­
sary; it is a very individual pro­
cess.
Graul said that “the mentoring 
relationship has been primarily 
a professional one,” but she also 
continued, saying, “Mentoring 
can be a very informal thing. 
Don’t expect the world from it.”
Keep in mind that “[mentoring] 
is basically a philanthropic ef­
fort,” said Hickman; acknowledge 
a mentor’s contribution and ef­
fort; and, most of all, do not be too 
demanding.
Problems arise occasionally
between mentors and mentorees 
when they are involved in the 
same field.
To prevent such an occurrence, 
Hickman said, “.Don’t foster a 
competitive effort; keep [the rela­
tionship] a collaborative effort.”
Graul advises preventing com­
petition by saying, “You want to 
make sure you do not do exactly 
the same thing as a mentor.”
It is never too late to acquire a 
mentor because they are always 
helpful.
“A good mentor/mentoree rela­
tionship is a lifelong effort,” said 
Hickman.
Keeping in touch and giving 
back whenever possible are im­
portant mentoree responsibili­
ties. “You give back by taking 
someone else on to mentor; you 
keep the chain going.”
Future topics for the GSSS in­
clude “Time Management” and 
“Charting an Academic Career 
Contact Kathleen Minadeo 
Johnson for more information and 
registration at x8-7970.
Nixing winter blues
QUOTES, from page U
“I.run, have snowball fights, 
and just play games around the 
dorm.”
Bill McCrossin, junior, econom-
“I practice karate.”
Frank Johnson, sophomore, 
MSE
“I exercise and eat, and I sing.” 
AlexaDomeck, fifthyear senior, 
French
“Go bowling.”
Jason Troilo, sophomore, un­
decided
“I sit around and drink with my 
fraternity brothers, and I go 
siding.”
Romain Abtahi, sophomore, 
IMIS
"... [I] think of other seasons. I 
really lbve spring in Pitts­
burgh.... anticipating spring, 
baseball and that sort of thing, 
and knowing that they’ll be 
more enjoyable by contrast..." 
Peter Stearns, dean ofH&SS
“Go shopping.”
Colleen Wivell, senior, mechani­
cal engineering
Healthy Males Wanted 
for Semen Donor Program 
at Magee Women's Hospital
fee paid for donor specimens
screening required
if interested, please call 
641 -1 1 74 after 5 pm only
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ExcettenceijÄ
the world over%S$fr l
Northern Telecom and Bell-Northern Research 
are very excited about the future - both yours and ours.
As a global leader in telecommunications, we’re able to give you 
a real commitment to your training and continuing development, 
and put you alongside the most talented people in the 
telecommunications industry.
Find out more about excellence at NT and BNR. It could make a 
world of difference!
We will he on campus on January 24 and 25.
Contact your placement office for complete information and 
interview schedules.
northerntelecomBNR<|
The research subsidiary 
of Northern Telecom
Northern Telecom and Bell-Northern Research are equal opportunity employers. 
Northern Telecom and Bell-Northern Research are committed to.a drug free 
workplace and perform pre-employment testing for current illegal use of drugs.
Life’s too short.
»TOP THE HATE
Leadership Conference Education Fund, Inc.
(PIZZA)
mm*
Drivers Wanted
10 POSITIONS
full/part timedays/evenings/nights
flexible hours¦work around class schedule
above average earningswages/tips/commission
must have own car/insuranceclean driving record
ft
/discounts on pizza
:&M6
APPLY IN PERSON:
Papa John's Pizza 
4643 Baum Blvd
near Melwood
Adobe Systems Incorporated has always stood for 
vision. More than ten years ago, we introduced the 
PostScript™ language technology and ushered in an 
industry standard for page description software. Next 
came graphics programs-Adobe Type Manager™, 
Adobe Illustrator™, and Adobe PhotoShop™.
Each product vasdy expanded the computer user’s scope 
of possibility for communication. Now, we’re seeing a 
revolution in the electronic distribution of documents 
with the new Adobe™ Acrobat™ software.
Adobe is where technical innovation and artistic expres­
sion meet - it’s a great place to start a career. Look at the 
possibilities being offered.
Applications Engineer
This individual will contribute to the Adobe team by 
developing new products for the Apple Macintosh® 
and Microsoft® Windows™ and implement exciting 
graphic applications on leading-edge graphical-interface 
platforms.
A BS in CS and/or equivalent experience is required. 
Previous experience developing applications in C or 
C++, as well as developing software for any of the 
systems listed above would be valuable. Class work or 
other experience in user interface development, image 
processing, 2-D or 3-D rendering, or digital typography 
would be considered an advantage. Experience‘with 
PostScript or Display PostScript would be a plus. 
ColltfEZ.
Applications Programmer
This qualified candidate must have experience pro­
gramming in C, C++, GUI, client/servers and working 
with database applications. Additionally, you will 
interface with application users to analyze needs and 
develop solutions.
A BSCS or an engineering discipline and/or equivalent 
experience, NIX literacy (shell scripting) and program­
ming experience outside of coursework are required. 
Excellent written, verbal, and interpersonal communica­
tion skills are also required. Knowledge of Mac/PC 
spreadsheets, word processors, etc. is necessary; 
Relational Database programming experience is 
desirable. Coll #MH.
Members of Technical Staff
In addition to the following qualifications, we seek team 
players with excellent written, verbal, and interpersonal 
skills for these positions.
• This qualified candidate will be responsible for printer 
implementation, complex software design, debugging, 
and maintenance. A good deal of customer interface 
combined with are necessary.
A BS in Computer Science and/or equivalent experi­
ence a proven track record of completing projects is 
required. You must demonstrate the ability to read C 
code (written by others) and have experience with 
UNIX. A MS or Ph.D. in Computer Science is 
desired. Coll #GC.
• This individual must have experience on multiplat­
forms and have a BS in CS and/or equivalent experi­
ence. Knowledge of C and/or C++ is desired; 
experience with graphics and visual documentation 
is a plus. Coll #BW.
• This individual will provide support to the QA 
Project Lead by participating in design and code 
reviews, performing code coverage tests and other 
“White Box” QA efforts, testing suite development, 
and writing and conducting automated test scripts. 
Testing software from written test plans, writing 
debugging reports, and tracking down and defining 
the shortest failure path for complex error manifesta­
tions are also part of your responsibilities. 
Qualifications include a BSCS, indepth knowledge 
of computer use or capabilities and experience with 
PostScript printer hardware and programming, word 
processing, spreadsheets, databases, communications, 
desktop publishing, and graphics paint or draw appli­
cations. Experience with Windows 3.1, UNIX and 
Macintosh environment and QA testing and 
programming experience desirable. Coll#TC.
• This individual will be a member of a 12-person 
team developing multiple, very large scale, graphics 
renderings, font scaling, and compression/decompres­
sion ASIC’s, using 0.6 micron CMOS standard-cell 
technology. This is a ground-floor opportunity in a 
highly visible program. Duties include the design and 
development of the architecture and detailed logic 
design of a very large scale ASIC, design and develop­
ment of associated simulation models, test programs, 
logic and functional verification programs, and other 
software required to develop this ASIC.
We require a BS in EE or CS and/or equivalent 
experience, some user level Unix and C programming 
experience. Additionally, familiarity with logic 
design, simulation, graphic software algorithms and 
interpretation, test generation, and micro program­
ming techniques are important. A MS degree and 
previous industrial experience is preferred. Coll #JM.
Please sign up to meet with us on
Friday, 
January 28,1994.
If you miss us, please send your resume or letter of 
interest (indicating position code) to: Human 
Resources, Adobe Systems Incorporated, P.O. Box 
7900, Mountain View, CA 94039-7900. We are an 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Adobe, the Adobe Logo, Acrobat, Adobe Dimension!, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe 
Photoshop, Adobe Type Manager and PostScript arc trademarks of Adobe Systems 
Incorporated, which may be registered in certain jurisdictions. Macintosh b a registered 
trademark of Apple Computer Inc. Windows is a 
Trademark of Microsoft Corporation. UNIX is a registered 
trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories, Inc. All other 
bond and product names arc trademarks or registered 
trademarks of their respective holders.
©1994 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved.
m
Adobe

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
By JASON ANDRACK3
Tartan Staffwriter
All the members of ms.lum graduated 
from CMU with degrees from the Col­
lege of Fine Arts. Yet, not one of them 
studied anything remotely resembling 
music. Lead vocalist Paul Kaup was a 
drama major; guitarist Jon Weidlinger,
writing major, Sandy Greene, the 
rhythm guitarist, received a degree in 
,graphic design; bassist Steve Antonson 
was an art major; and industrial de­
signer Jeff Miller plays drums. The only 
tiling more diverse than their majors 
are the songs on their release Airport 
Love Song, which, I might add, depicts a 
nifty air sickness bag.
The origins of this band are quite 
cloudy. A quote from one band member 
in a press release describes, “It was ... I
mean it began in Pittsburgh — I guess. 
The Pittsburgh airport. We went to the 
same university and somehow or an­
other we ended up there one afternoon, 
or at least some of us — it’s hard to 
remember specifics about airports.” An­
other member compares it to “Andy 
Warhol’s wig in the wind.”
The music is about as easy to describe 
as the founding of ms.lum. For the most 
part it is completely original, yet some 
others resemble They Might Be Giants 
(“Pig” and “Delivered”), old R.E.M. 
(“Flags”), and Toad the Wet Sprocket 
(“Murderer”). In the song“Em,” on which 
the band members traded instruments, 
there is a bit of the Dead Milkmen and 
Nirvana. The They Might Be Giants 
influence is understandable consider­
ing Brian Doherty, drummer of TMBG, 
produced Airport Love Song.
Although the first side starts off a 
little weak, the second side consisting of 
“Murderer,” “Em,” “The Trendsetter,” 
“Tool,” and “Superstar Nicoli” makes up 
for the shortcomings of the first side. 
“Em,” in my opinion, is the best song on 
the album since my favorite, “Superstar 
Nicoli,” features a borrowed riff from 
Andrew Lloyd Webber’s Jesus Christ 
Superstar. “Em” is their best original 
work.
Although I’m a bit skeptical of the 
college music scene since it has become 
so popular, I must say I am impressed 
"with ms.lum. For a band that has only 
been around since 1992 they have re­
leased a very solid debut album. They 
blended a wide range of musical influ­
ences, but most importantly, added their 
own style for a very interesting combi­
nation of songs.
ms.lum’s new 
album Airport 
Love Song and 
band members 
Steve Anton­
son, Sandy 
Greene, Paul 
Kaup, Jeff Mil­
ler, Jon Weid­
linger
Campus 
Bestsellers
1. The Days are Just Packed, by Bill Watterson. 
More Calvin and Hobbes cartoons. (Andrews & 
McMeel, $12.95)
2. The Joy Luck Club, by Amy Tan.
Chinese immigrant women and their Chinese- 
American daughters, (ivy, $5.99)
3. The Age Of Innocence, by Edith Wharton. 
New York society life in the late 19th century. 
(Collier/Macmillan, $5.95)
4. The Way Things Ought To Be, by Rush 
Umbaugh.
Controversial issues — that’s Umbaugh terri­
tory. (Pocket Star, $6.50)
5. Mixed Blessing, by Danielle Steel.
Having children creates tense relationships. (Deil, 
$6.99)
6. Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, by
Steven R. Covey.
Guide to personal fulfillment. (Fireside, $9.95)
7. The Chickens are Restless, by Gary Larson. 
New collection of cartoons. (Andrews & McMeel, 
$8.95)
8. Pare Air, by Michael Jordan.
Autobiography by the retired basketball super- 
star. (Harper Collins, $25.00)
9. The Pelican Brief, by John Grisham.
Law student finds herself on the run from killers 
of two Supreme Court justices. (Deil, $6.99)
10. The Killer Angels, by Michael Shaara. 
Dramatic Recreation of the Battle of Gettysburg. 
(Ballantine, $5.99)
Alums ms.lum create
eclectic music mix
Compiled by The Chronicle of Higher Education 
from Information supplied by college stores 
throughout the country. December 15, 1993. 
Printed with permission.
courtesy of Bar/None Records -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  -  ;-------------------------------------------------------------------------- i  Larson’s Chickens are Restless fares well
Showboats sail in CFA...
The “Riverboat Renaissance” contest for architecture students 
hoisted anchor last Friday in the CFA lobby. The contest, meant to 
display Pittsburgh's changing image, asked entrants to build a 
model of a riverboat gambling casino that would be able to float in 
a kiddie pool filled with icy water.
Some unique entries included the floating PPG plaza and the 
futuristic domed boat, both shown below. The models were judged
BOOK REVIEW
Featuring Bestseller #7
By DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Staffwriter
Gary Larson, what a nut! What else can one say 
about the crazy, warped mind who invades the 
otherwise serious tone of our daily newspapers 
with his single paneled satire of life, The Far Side? 
It seems that almost everybody has read and 
enjoyed this comic and its off-beat look at the 
world. One can hardly walk past the offices of his 
or her professors without seeing at least a few 
examples decorating their doors. Now with the 
advent of his new book, The Chickens are Restless: 
A Far Side Collection, by Gary Larson, Larson fans 
can once again engage themselves in a hilarious 
compilation of his unique visual puns.
So, what makes The Far Side such a funny 
comic? It relies on the fact that it is completely 
unprejudicial. Whether the subjects are scientists, 
children, neanderthals, or present day workers, 
they have to succumb to seemingly everyday events 
that end with a twist. Each individual is placed in 
a situation that is completely foreign to what 
would stereotypically be associated with their 
world. For example, no one would regularly asso­
ciate a neanderthal man as needing a plumber or 
a horde of Vikings harassing a village by tossing 
eggs at their houses, but The Far Side would. The 
reader is relentlessly introduced to cliches that 
would often be considered normal if the captions 
were read alone. A quick glimpse of the comic that 
accompanies it, however, reveals just how ridicu­
lous the statement is when associated with the
wrong spectacle. Such defines the inappropriate 
use of chickens being restless when seeing a pic­
ture of a chicken lynch mob on the cover.
As suggested by the cover, Larson does not stop 
at humans. Animals of all species are plagued with 
the attributes of speech and personalities and 
other things that humans would egotistically be­
lieve to only belong to people. Both dinosaurs and 
inanimate objects are given the same human quirks. 
In some cases even the comics themselves must 
ascribe to having their own existence, as is the case 
with stickmen putting people on trial for “drive-by 
erasings.” The pictures showcase a world with no 
distinctions and in the end no one is safe from 
Larson’s imagination.
The format of the book is in itself different from 
other collections of The Far Side. In the other 18 
collections, each page was covered with panels 
allowing little of the paper to remain untouched by 
the print. Aside from the anthologies and the 
retrospective, the books have little width. Yet they 
seemed to contain a good deal more comics 
than The Chickens are Restless which has 
almost twice the width of the other books.
This is due to the fact that every fourth page 
includes an enlarged picture that is artisti­
cally shaded in with pencil, adding a look 
different from what appears in the newspa­
pers. Since the rest of the comics are the 
standard size this causes the remaining pages 
to look a little uneven. This certainly does not 
detract from the humor imparted in each 
panel. It just means that the reader will have 
to trade a few comics for the artistic approach 
of the new book.
Another thing that was surprising about 
the book is the distance that the cover has 
from the style of the rest of Larson’s work.
The cover contains probably the first picture 
of Larson’s that might take more than one 
glance to actually take in the entire joke.
Even though the bulk of the pun is in the title 
The Chickens are Restless there are visual
elements that are worth looking at, too. On the 
front cover there is a chicken making a nasty face 
to the reader and on the back cover there is a cow 
being pegged by eggs. The only reason that I 
mention this is because it took me three looks at the 
back cover until I finally noticed a duck with a red 
rubber glove pulled over his head masquerading as 
a chicken. It might seem unimportant but the 
expression on the duck’s face and the startled looks 
on two other chickens’ faces is just too precious to 
be missed.
The Far Side has been a favorite of many avid 
comic readers for a long time and The Chickens are 
Restless displays exactly why. Even though the 
format of the new book is a little different than 
those that Larson has previously released, his fans 
should not be disappointed. One should also not be 
deterred from looking at the book even if they 
frequently read The Far Side in the newspapers. 
There is sure to be quite a few that many have not 
previously seen.

---------------------------------------------------

LS The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 1994
Winkler’s new TV show Monty disappointing
Both photos: Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
Apartments Unlimited
Studios
1 Bedroom
2 Bedrooms
Shadyside & Squirrel Hill
For further information call 
(412) 521-7838
* FREE TRIPS & CASH %
Call us and find out how hundreds of 
students arc already earning FREE 
TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with 
America’s #1 Spring Break company! 
Choose Cancún, Bahamas, Jamaica, 
Panama, Daytona, or Padre!
TAKE A BREAK
STUDENT TRAVELS
(800) 328-SAVE or 
(617) 424-8222
I, THE
THREE-MONTH BIRTH CONTROL 
SHOT, IS NOW AVAILABLE AT 
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
Call now for a confidential appointment 
to discuss your birth control options.
PFWWP
PLANNED
PARENTHOOD
OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA
Downtown
Pittsburgh
434-8971
Sewickley
741-7626
Clairton
233-6001
Monty is a disappointment.
The other half of the program (Monty’s 
life) is even more cliched. With the typi­
cal, young, smart-mouthed son, and the 
addled older son, the Richardson family 
is like any other sitcom family.
The wife is the liberal voice in the 
show and Geena, the “big-brother’s kooky 
girlfriend that Dad doesn’t like,” adds a 
bit of the alternative — nose ring and 
all.
Monty is a cliche nestled among a few 
modem themes and trends. The politi­
cal satire could be better and the inter­
actions between the characters more 
realistic.
All-in-all, it could be much funnier 
than it is, but if you simply want to relive 
old ’50s memories, watch Monty with 
the sound turned down and pretend 
Winkler’s sports coat is a leather jacket.
This week at the Hewlett
Gallery...
Michael Pesters Ornithology, a multi-media 
installation that engages the viewer in formal 
relationships of voice and sound through the 
subject of bird extinction. Shown here is Pestel’s 
‘sound cage,’ which is meant to simulate the 
experience of traditional exotic bird cage. The 
exhibit will be housed at the Hewlett now through 
February 4.
By JOHN BIGGS
Diversions Co-Editor
Henry Winkler used to be the Fonz on 
the television show Happy Days. He 
wore a leather jacket and said “Ayyyy” 
quite a bit.
Now, Winkler plays a witty, conserva­
tive talk-show host; one who probably 
knows how to start a juke-box with a 
well placed smack.
Monty revolves around the life of Monty 
Richardson (Winkler) and his talk show,
“Rightspeak.” It also stars Kate Burton 
as Fran Richardson, David Krumholtz 
as Monty’s son David, and David 
Schwimmer as Monty’s other son, Greg. 
Finally, China Kantner appears as 
Geena, the token alternative personal­
ity. Tom McGowan appears on 
Rightspeak as well. He is the 
McMahonesque character, Clifford 
Walker. Joyce Guy plays Rita Simon, 
Monty’s producer.
The show, filled with relative un­
knowns (excepting Winkler), has a mun­
dane feel to it. Though the theme of the 
show, a talk show and the life of the host, 
is fairly new, the comedy is mundane 
with slow satire trying to pass as wit. 
“Rightspeak,” filled with jokes like “The 
‘Find a Blind Date for Janet Reno’ Con­
test,” is a play on Rush Limbaugh’s 
rantings and a weak attempt at political 
satire.
With Rita Simon (Guy) playing the 
wry foil to Monty’s adventures and 
Walker as the wacky and fat stereotypi­
cal side-kick, the “Rightspeak” theme of
New team transforms Excalibur
Welcome back to Comic Book 
Chronicles and the snowy 
grounds of Carnegie Mellon. I 
hope everyone had a great vaca­
tion. Being that I live here in 
frigid Pittsburgh, my vacation 
would have been a lot better if not 
for the snow, since it ruined a
Comic Book Chronicles
comicbook convention that I was job with the stories and charac- 
looking forward to for months.
Among the many guests expected 
were Roger Stern {Action Com­
ics), Mark Bagaley (The Amazing 
Spider-Man), Tom Lyle (Spider- 
Man), and Dan Panosian 
(.Prophet). It was to take place on 
January 8 and 9 at the Sheraton
ing the period that I was catching 
up was the location of Excalibur’s 
headquarters. First it was the 
original lighthouse, then 
Braddock manor, and now Muir 
Island. I thought it was a pain 
by Jason Andracki just moving into a dorm.
All the previously mentioned 
changes I can deal with but there 
are two I’m having trouble with. 
First of all, the humor and light­
heartedness of the book left with 
the .departure of Davis. I think 
Micromax summed up this 
change of attitude best by saying
in Station Square. Regretfully, 
the week of snow leading up to 
the convention caused many of 
those guests to miss the show. So, 
I decided it wasn’t even worth the 
meager $6 admission since I was 
going primarily to collect auto­
graphs.
Being snowed in for a week did 
have good points. All the free 
time gave me a chance to catch up 
on some of the comics I didn’t 
have time to read while in school. 
For the first time in months, I
terization, and the various art­
ists have also done well.
However, the transition from 
Davis to a different writer was 
bad. Following Davis’ final issue,
Captain Britain was lost in the 
temporal time loop returning to Kylun, “All I’ve seen during my 
from the future. I don’t want to observation period is a bunch of
insult Lobdell or whoever thought 
of it, because it is a good plot 
twist, but they should have shown 
it rather than explaining it in 
narration. After all, he is/was a 
founding member, and Cerise’s 
departure was stretched out over 
three issues (and she was only 
with the team since issue #46). I 
think he deserved something 
more dramatic, but I’m sure he’ll 
return soon.
Other changes have also 
occured, such as the number of
was caught up on my reading and Excalibur dropping from 10 to
even had time to pick up on some 
books that I haven’t touched for a 
longtime. I used this opportunity 
to catch up with two years worth 
of one of my all time favorites, 
Excalibur. In the 20 or so issues 
that I read, many changes took 
place.
The most notice­
able change has to 
be that of the cre­
ative team. Issue 67 
was the final time 
that Excalibur was 
graced by the writ­
ing and penciling 
skills of creator 
Alan Davis and 
inker Mark Farm­
er. They have since 
moved on to a lim­
ited series, Clan­
destine, being pub­
lished by Marvel 
UK I hope they’ll 
return when that 
series concludes.
Scott Lobdell and 
others handled the 
chores including is­
sue #71, th eX-Men 
anniversary issue 
complete with 
Nightcrawler holo­
gram and wrap­
around cover. Be­
ginning with #72,
Richard Ashford 
took over the writ­
ing, but no definite 
art team has been 
announced. Both 
Lobdell and Ash­
ford have done a 
more than adequate
three (Nightcrawler, Shadowcat, 
and Phoenix). This is sad, be­
cause new members like Kylun 
and.Cerise were starting.to grow 
on me. Also the entire team, when 
there were 10 of them, were all 
outfitted with new costumes. 
Another change that occurecf dur-
© 1993 Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc. 
A new era begins as Nightcrawler, Phoenix, and Shadowcat 
move to Muir Island, to continue the Exalibur legacy.
angst-ridden super-types, all of 
whom are morbidly over-obsessed 
with death.” I’m hoping that once 
Ashford gets better acquainted 
with this book that the humor 
will return since that is the rea­
son Excali b ur is my favorite Mar­
vel book.
My other complaint has to do 
with Excalibur’s stronger bond 
with the rest of the X-books. With 
Bob Harras being group editor of 
all the mutant titles, I’m sure 
England’s team of mutants will 
now get involved with th eX-Men, 
X-Factor, and the rest in those 
ever-annoying (and expensive) 
multi-part crossovers. All I have 
to say is if Wolverine somehow 
joins Excalibur, I’m done, but I’ll 
stick with it for now.
Even with a lot of major changes 
in this book, I was really happy to 
re-discover Excalibur 
this holiday season, es­
pecially since it was dur­
ing Christmas that I 
first picked up the first 
Excalibur special edi­
tion.
Oh, the good old days 
of Chris Claremont, 
Alan Davis, and Paul 
Neary.
Before I go, I’d like to 
pass along a little tid­
bit. The Holiday Inn in 
Oakland will be host to 
another Pulse Con on 
Sunday, February 13 
from 10 am to 4 pm. 
Admission is only a dol­
lar and there should be 
many great deals to be 
found. Be sure to check 
the half-price sales!
Jason Andracki is a 
freshman professional 
writing major. He wel­
comes any input into his 
column.
If you have any com­
ments for him, send 
them to Comic Book 
Chronicles c/o Diver­
sions, The Tartan, Skibo 
Room 50, or drop them 
off in person at our of­
fice.Design a logo that will be featured on posters, 
schedules, and T-shirts of Spring Carnival 
throughout the Pittsburgh communityl
The logo can be anything that sparks your 
imagination, as long as the logo contains the 
"Around the World" theme, the above slogan, 
and the words "Spring Carnival 1994".
Design the front as well as the back of the T-shirt if you wish. 
Be sure to include your name, campus address, phone number, 
and email address with your entry. Designs will be judged by 
the Spring Carnival Committee. The winning design becomes 
property of the Spring Carnival Committee.
Turn in your designs at the Skibo 
Information Desk by February 7 at 5pm.
Funded in part by your Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 17 January 1994L7
Thursday, January 20
Deer Hunter
Robert DiNiro, Christopher Walken, and 
Jason Savage star in a gripping story of a group 
of men and their lives before, during, and after 
the Vietnam War. The movie follows DiNiro, 
Walken, and Savage from their jobs at a Penn­
sylvania steel mill to the local bar and finally 
overseas where they discover the horrors of 
war and the importance of friendship.
This film is written and directed by Michael 
Cimino, whose credits include The Sicilian, 
won five Oscars.
One of the early Vietnam films in the vein of 
Francis Coppola, The Deer Hunter deals with 
the confusion of the Vietnam era.
At 5, 8:30 pm, and midnight.
Friday, January 21
Fatal Instinct
Fatal Instinct spoofs Body Heat, Fatal At­
traction, and Basic Instinct in the tradition of 
Airplane and Hot Shots. Starring Armand 
Assante of 1492 as Nick Ravine, a cop/lawyer, 
the film is a satiric look at modern popular 
films. Directed by Carl Reiner, this silly com­
edy is as entertaining as it is witty.
Reiner also directed The Jerk, All of Me, and 
Oh, God!
The movie also stars Kate Nelligan and 
Sherilyn Fenn, and features Blade Runner’s 
Sean Young as sultry Lola.
If you haven’t seen some of the films Fatal 
Instinct spoofs, you may not catch some of the 
jokes. However, there’s still a good chance you 
may enjoy yourself at this fast paced parody.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, January 22
Blues Brothers
Before Wayne’s World and the Coneheads, 
the Blues Brothers, Dan Akroyd and John 
Belushi, brought Saturday Night Live skits to 
the big screen. This comedy about a blues band 
reuniting to save an orphanage includes cam­
eos by actors John Candy, Paul Reubens, Henry 
Gibson, and artists Ray Charles, Aretha 
Franklin, and Sammy Davis, Jr., as well as a 
number of other R&B stars. Carrie Fisher, of 
Star Wars fame, also stars as Jake Blues’ 
(Belushi) wife. The comedy is wry and wonder­
ful, a forebearer to today’s SNL fodder.
John Landis, who also directed Animal 
House, created a fine feature-length film from 
a series of hilarious skits. The film is a wonder­
ful comedy from the days of Akroyd, Chevy 
Chase, and Belushi SNL. With tons of car 
crashes and highlights of Chicago, this film 
will make you laugh ’til you cry.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, January 23
Wild in the Streets
Max Frost, played by Christopher Jones, is 
a millionaire rock star who is elected President 
of the United States after the voting age is 
lowered to 14. He decrees that those over 30 be 
sent to concentration camps and be fed LSD. 
Richard Pryor plays Stanley X. Shelly Winters 
plays Max’s mother. Melvin Belli and Dick 
Clark play themselves.
Wild in the Streets was American Interna­
tional Pictures’ biggest budgeted film in the 
1960s.
Though overrated by critics, the film is an 
interesting satire on youth culture and politics.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Carneg scopE
Bad Behaviour
This comedy focuses on the lives 
of a family in a small London town. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7, 9 pm Fri­
day through Sunday)
Dazed and Confused
This sleeper film is about friends 
and dope in the 70s. (Beehive; 5:15, 
7:30, 9:15 pm Monday through 
Thursday)
Grumpy Old Men
Walter Matthau and jack Lemmon 
star in this comedy about two 
grumpy old men. (Manor Theater; 
5:10, 7:30, 9:30 pm daily)
Heaven and Earth
This newest film from Oliver Stone 
focuses on a Vietnamese woman’s 
struggle during the Vietnam War. 
(Squirrel Hill Cinema World; 7:10, 
9:45 pm daily; 4:25 pm Friday 
through Monday; 1:50 pm Satur­
day through Monday)
Mandabi/Tauwi
Both films are from Senegal film­
maker Ousmane Sembene. Man- 
dabi tells the story of a man who 
gets caught in a barrage of bureau­
cracy when he attempts to cash a 
money order. Tauwi tells the story 
of a unemployed dock worker who 
finds himself 
caught be­
tween the 
poverty of 
the past and 
the prom­
ised afflu­
ence of the 
future.
( Carnegie 
Museum of 
Art Theater;
8 pm Satur­
day)
Mrs. Doubtfire
Robin Williams dresses up as a 
nanny in order to visit his three 
children, after losing visitation rights. 
Sally Fields also stars as Williams’ 
ex-wife. (ManorTheater;5:20, 7:40, 
9:50 pm daily)
The Nightmare Before Christmas
An ambitious full-length stop- 
motion animation feature film, The 
Nightmare Before Christmas follows 
the adventures of jack Skellington, 
Pumpkin King of Halloweentown. 
Jack accidentally finds Christ- 
mastown and returns home ob­
sessed with the idea of bringing 
Christmas to Halloweentown. (Bee­
hive; midnight Thursday through 
Sunday)
The Pelican Brief
Julia Roberts and Denzel Wash­
ington star in this adaptation of John 
Grisham’s latest novel about assas­
sinated Supreme Court justices. 
(Squirrel Hill Cinema World; 7:20, 
9:55 pm daily; 4:30 pm Friday 
through Monday; 1:45 pm Satur­
day through Monday)
Philadelphia
Tom Hanks stars in this much 
anticipated film about a gay man 
who brings his former employers to 
court after they fire him when they
find out he has the HIV virus. (Squir­
rel Hill Cinema World; 7, 9:35 pm 
daily; 4:15pm Friday through Mon­
day; 1:30 pm Saturday through 
Monday)
The Piano
Holly Hunter stars in the story of 
a Victorian woman who moves to 
the wilds of New Zealand, where 
she explores her relationships with 
her husband (Sam Neil) and her 
lover (Harvey Kaitel). (Manor The­
ater; 5:15, 7:30, 9:40 pm daily)
Reminiscence of a Journey to 
Lithuania
Jonas Mekas, one of the foremost 
experimental filmmakers, presents 
a three-part story of his life, from his 
time in a concentration camp to his 
original Lithuanian home to his im­
migration to the US. (Filmmakers at 
the Fulton; Thursday 8 pm)
Ruby in Paradise
Ashley Judd and Todd Fenton star 
in this film about a young woman 
who moves to Florida to find a bet­
ter life than her Tennessee home. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7, 9:10 pm 
Monday through Thursday)
Senior Film Production 
, Screening
Pittsburgh Filmmakers presents 
five of their Senior Produc­
tion students' films in this 
free screening. (Filmmak­
ers at the Fulton; 5 pm 
Thursday)
Shadowlands
©1993 New Yorker Films 
Sembene's Mandabi will show Saturday at the Carnegie.
Based on the life ofChris- 
tian philosopher and 
children’s writer C.S. 
Lewis, this film from direc­
tor James Ivory stars An­
thony Hopkins and Debra
Winger. (Manor Iheater; 5, 7:25, 
9:45 pm daily)
Speaking Parts
Atom Egoyan brings this post­
modern psychodrama about loss 
and the damage of technology.
This unique film, taken as if from a 
security camera tells the story of 
four people in the movie business. 
(Carnegie Museum of Art Theater; 8 
pm Friday)
The Summer House
A situation involving a London 
teenager about to enter into mar­
riage with a 40-year-old man forces 
her mother's flamboyant friend-to 
go to drastic measures to prevent 
the marriage from taking place. 
(Filmmakers at the Fulton; Monday 
through Wednesday)
The War Room
Chris Hegedus and D.A. Penne- 
baker take a behind-the-scenes look 
at the Clinton presidential campaign 
in this documentary about politics 
inside Washington. (Filmmakers at 
the Fulton; Friday through Sunday)
Theater locations:
Beehive: 3807 Forbes Ave.
687-WHAT 
Filmmakers at the Fulton:
101 Sixth St., Downtown 
471-9700 
The Manor Theater:
1729 Murray Ave.
422-7729 
Pittsburgh Playhouse: 222 Craft 
621-6601 
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave.
421-7900 
Carnegie Museum of Art
The ater: 4400 Forbes Ave. 
622-3212
By TINA L. URSO
FreeCatalog fo uarCsRiCRn gaa.—
The U.S. Government Printing 
Office has a free catalog of new 
and popular books sold by the 
Government. Books about 
agriculture, energy, children, 
space, health, history, business, 
vacations, and much more. Find 
out what Government books are
all about. Send for your free 
catalog.
Free Catalog
P.O. Box 3"<H)<)
Washington DC 2()OI3--<)<)(>I7>
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG •PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
TORONTO. CANADA
^ROCHESTER. NY
^SYRACUSE. NY 
CORTLAND. NY
COME JOIN THE WILDLY TALENTED AT BUSCH CARDENS.
PITTSBURGH
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22 
1 TO 6 P.M.
DANCE AUDITIONS, 2:30 P.M. 
BENEDUM CENTER FOR THE 
PERFORMING ARTS 
719 LIBERTY AVENUE
AUDITIONS W
A CASTING CALL THAT COULD TAKE YOU WHERE THE WILD THINGS GO.
DANCERS SINGERS-WHO MOVE WELL
MUSICIANS ACTORS
SPECIALTY PERFORMERS COSTUME CHARACTERS 
TECHNICIANS SEAMSTRESSES AND DRESSERS
For further information and helpful lips on auditions, please call (813) 987-5169 or write 
t0: ^ Busch Gardens (\j|r
Entertainment Department N=s<
P.O. Box 9158 niKrii
Tampa, FL 33674-9158 BUSCH
If you are unable to attend the audition, please send your Cl/kI^]DENS«
resume and a recent photo along with a videotape (which
cannot be returned) to the address above. sTHET FTS, plg3AnT
Busch Gardens is an Equal Opportunity Employer Nl/F/D/V
HAGERSTOWN. MOl
WASHINGTON. DC 
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
'HILAOELPHIA 
KING OF PRUSSIA 
'LANCASTER
1-800-444-2877
PARIS
SUMMER PROGRAMS 1994 
May 24-June 10 »June 13-July 22 
June 19-July 9 »July 25-August 12 
The Quality Time of Yo ur Life
More than 50 courses from the University's 
curriculum, offered for credit or non-credit.French Language Immmersion programs 
in Paris and Biarritz.Weekend excursions to historic regions or France: 
Normandy, Alsace, the Loire Valley, Givemy, 
Chartres, and the French Riviera.
ftfake this summer your time for new beginnings.
Send for oar 1994 Summer Programs brochure: 
The American University of Paris 
Summer Programs / US Office 
BO East 11th Street, Suite 434 
New York, New Yoik 10003 
Tel.s (312) 677-4870 Fax: (23 2) 475-5205
THE
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
OF PARIS

---------------------------------------------------

áf¡slE3TQp¥i|oyá\yî\LEiVjAi\
ERS
Fatal Instinct, a killer comedy collaboration of Basic Instinct, Body Heat, Fatal 
Attraction, and Silence of the Lambs is showing this weekend in Doherty Hall.
photo by Metro Goldwyn Mayer, 1993
peoniFilms
Admission to all DH 2210 films is $1 
for students with ID; $2 otherwise. Ad­
mission to all Pittsburgh Playhouse 
films, located at 222 Craft Avenue, is 
$4.
Deer Hunter will be shown in DH 
2210 on Thursday at 5, 8:30 pm, and 
midnight.
Fatal Instinct plays in DH 2210 this 
Friday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Blues Brothers shows in DH 2210 
Saturday at 5, 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 
am.
Wild in the Streets will play Sunday 
in DH 2210 at 6, 8, 10 pm, and mid­
night.
Notices
Come repair, revise, and revitalize 
your foreign language skills at the 
international language tables held 
daily over lunch. Sponsored by the 
Modern Languages Department, all 
language tables are held in the Gradu­
ate Student Coffeehouse, with the ex­
ception of the Russian Language table, 
heldin the Faculty Dining Room. Times 
are as follows: Mondays: La Table 
Française from noon-1:30 pm; Tues­
days: Russkii Chas from 12:30-1:30 
pm; Wednesdays: La Mesa Española 
from 11:30 am-12:30 pm; Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch from 11:30 am- 
12:30 pm; and Fridays: Bentoo Lunch o 
nihongo de from 12:30-1:20 pm.
CMU Shorin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Mondays at 8:30 pm and Saturdays at 
4 pm in Activity room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional O- 
kinawan Karate. Beginners are wel-
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5-7 pm 
when classes are in session, in addition 
to regular office hours.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting 
House. For more information, call Bill 
King at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds its meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
Join other set dancers for a night 
of Irish social dancing every Tues­
day at 8 pm at Mullaney’s Harp and 
Fiddle, located in the Strip District at 
24th and Penn Ave. For more informa­
tion, contact Pete Shovlin at 392-8319.
The Fencing Club holds practices in 
the Fencing Room in the Gymnasium 
Tuesday evenings at 6:30 pm, Thurs­
days at 7:30 pm, and Sunday after­
noons at 1:30 pm. All levels of skill are 
welcome.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Mondays and Wednesdays at 9 pm in 
Activity Room A and Sundays at 2 pm 
in Activity Room B. For more informa­
tion email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group, provides a weekly forum for stu­
dents inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are 
held Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral 
of Learning, room 236. For more infor­
mation, call 343-1907.
Student Senate meetings are held 
every Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 
7 pm. All members of the campus com­
munity are welcome to attend and speak 
during audience participation.
The Women’s Center Collective
holds meetings every Sunday at 3 pm 
in the CMU Women’s Center. If your 
group is interested in meeting in the 
center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first 
and third Wednesday the Toastmas­
ters Club sponsors a speech communi­
cation workshop at the Carnegie Li­
brary in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. For 
more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is
held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) of the Cathedral of 
Learning and on Thursdays in Skibo 
201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at 683-7770 for more 
information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ­
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x8-2114.
Women in Science meets Wednes­
days at 4:30 pm in the Women’s Center. 
For more informaton, call the Women’s 
Center at x8-3595.
The Pterodactyl Speedway student 
reading series holds readings in Scot­
land Yard every other Thursday evening 
at 7 pm. Come out and support the local 
student writing community. Students 
interested in reading should contact 
Micki Kochanskyj (mk57), Tina Urso 
(tu05), or Chris Ogilvie (coOg).
A Rational Recovery support group 
for those with alcohol or drug problems 
meets every Friday at 7:30 pm. Meet­
ings are free and held in Room 205 of 
the Wightman Community Center 
Building in Squirrel Hill. For informa­
tion, phone 261-5363.
The Dagorhir group of Live-Action 
Medieval Fantasy Battle meets ev­
ery Friday and Saturday at midnight 
in front of Hunt Library.
Student Environmental Action 
Coalition meets every Sunday at 4:30 
pm in Grey Matter. SE AC’s job is to 
motivate students in working towards 
protecting our environment. For more 
information, call 681-8300.
SafeWalk—If you need to walk across 
campus late at night, let a trained stu­
dent escort team accompany you. Call 
SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 am 
seven nights a week at 268-SAFE (x8- 
2733). For more information, contact 
Ray Tseng at 862-3068.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net­
work is looking for student parents in 
financial need of free childcare and 
students, staff, and faculty interested 
in babysitting. For more information, 
contact David Pegher at dp31.
Auditions for Jesus Christ Super- 
star will be held at Apple Manor Play­
house, Manor Road, in Delmont, on 
Sunday, February 6 from noon until 7 
pm. Call the theater at 468-3030 or 
468-5050 for an appointment.
Religion
the Heinz Chapel. For more informa­
tion, call 682-6886.
Smithfield United Church, located 
downtown, holds Sunday morning 
worship services at 10:45 am. A free 
student fellowship luncheon follows 
each service.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow­
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11:30 am in the chapel 
located on the corner of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. For more infor­
mation, contact Brian VanderWel at 
621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadys­
ide College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss at 682- 
4300.
The Lutheran University Center,
located at 4515 Forbes, invites you to 
join in an Episcopal Lutheran Shared 
Eucharist on Sundays at 5 pm. Call 
x2-6886 for more information.
the Heinz Chapel. For more informa, 
tion, call 682-6886.
The Renaissance and Baroque Soci. 
ety will present Sequentia, an en-
semble for medieval music, on Saturday 
at 8 pm, in Synod Hall. Tickets are 
available at the Pitt Student Union.
A concert of traditional Vietnamese 
music will be presented by The Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh Department of Music 
and Asian Studies Progam on Tuesday, 
January 25 at 8 pm in the Frick Fine 
Arts Auditorium. Tickets are $5 at the 
door.
Tammy Wynette is scheduled to per­
form the Living the Legends of Country 
Music tour at the Civic Arena with Willie 
Nelson and Waylon Jennings on Thurs­
day, February 3 at 7:30 pm. Tickets are 
available at the Civic Arena Box Office 
or can be charged by phone, 333-SEAT.
Culture
Sports
The women’s basketball team plays 
Brandéis University at home this Fri­
day at 6:30 pm and NYU Sunday at 1 
pm.
The men’s basketball team will play 
Brandéis University this Friday at 
8:30 pm at home.
The men’s basketball team will play 
New York "University at 3 pm this 
Sunday.
The men’s and women’s swim team
competes at home against Bethany 
College at 1 pm on Saturday.
The men’s and women’s indoor 
track team will compete in the Rob­
ert Morris Invitational on Saturday.
The Pittsburgh Society of Artists
will hold a juried group exhibition at 
the USX Tower located downtown 
through Saturday, January 29. This 
multi-media exhibition contains works 
selected by Martin Prekop, dean of the 
College of Fine Arts.
Ornithology, Michael Pestel’s new­
est perceptual exhibit, will be dis­
played at the Hewlett Gallery through 
February 4.
Theater
Terrence McNally’s Lips Together, 
Teeth Apart opens at the City Theater 
downtown Wednesday at 8 pm and pre­
views tomorrow at 8 pm. It closes Sun­
day, February 6.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates Mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39, Monday through 
Friday. WeekendMasses are celebrated 
at 10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in 
the GSIA Cooper Auditorium. For more 
information, call the Newman Oratory 
Center at 681-3181.
St. Agnes Church, 3221 Fifth Ave
(Oakland), offers the Traditional Latin 
Mass (Tridentine Mass) Sundays at 
8:30 am (Low) and 11 am (High), first 
Fridays of the month at 7:30 pm, and 
first Saturdays at 9 am. Confession and 
the Holy Rosary are offered 30 minutes 
prior to all Masses, approved by His 
Eminence Bishop Donald Wuerl. Call 
766-0950 for more information.
Ecumenical Holy Communion,
sponsored by the Episcopal, Lutheran, 
and United Campus Ministries, is held 
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz 
Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible 
Study at 7 pm on Thursdays. For more 
information, call x2-2484.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
Daressalam Islamic Center, located 
at 4100 Bigelow Blvd., offers weekly 
congregational prayers at noon on Fri­
days. For more information, call 682- 
5555.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to uplift­
ing services on Sundays at 11 am in the 
Central Christian Church located at 
the comer of Fifth and Dithridge (134 
N. Dithridge). For more information, 
caH 621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day,
sponsored by the Lutheran Campus 
Ministry, is held Sundays at 9:30 pm in
Music
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: The 
Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to 
Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. 
You can also drop submissions via AppleShare in 
the drop folders in the Tartan’s server, Skibip zone. 
Please limit submissions to 50 words or less. Dead­
line is 8 pm the Wednesday before the next issue. 
Placement is not guaranteed. Original Vox Populi 
and Calendar entries cannot be returned.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday at 9:30 pm at
hey you,
Where’s my personal heater 
when i need it? I miss you!
Welcome back to he who has 
been resurrected.
To the new woman in 
Botany: We’ve seen each 
other before. Please intro­
duce yourself to me being 
that I am very shy.
POPUU
Did you see those huge snow balls on the football field?
Jakob is a tumtum head.
Dan,
The chicken made me sick! Thanks for your help.
Colleen, Karen, Liz, and Becca, 
A job well done!
How was my break?
Well... I had to spend some time talking to my therapist about Amtrak, 
but other than that...
