.GENERAL ASSEMBLY TODAY IN NEW GYM
CARNEGIE 
SONG BOOK 
ONE DOLLAR
CARNEGIE 
SONG BOOK 
ONE DOLLAR
VOL. XVIII NO. 26CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1924
CARNEGIE SONG BOOK ARRIVES
BOOK’S ARRIVAL 
MARKS EPOCH 
FOR CARNEGIE
INTERESTING SPEAKER AT
CHAPEL THURSDAY, 12:50
Years of Toil Result in Pub­
lication of First Song Book 
Ever to Appear on Car­
negie Campus
Dr. Hugh T. Kerr will be the speak­
er at the chapel service Thursday at 
12:50, in the Little Theater. Dr. Kerr 
is head of the Sliadyside Presbyterian 
Church, and has quite a few students 
in his congregation. He has spoken 
at the first chapel service for several 
years, and is well known here at 
school. The usual large audience is 
expected to attend this week’s service 
at chapel.
TARTAN DOES WORK
VOTE FOR CAMPUS 
QUEEN APRIL 8-10
The past history of the song book 
is as much a story of disappointments, 
tribulations, and futile pleas for sup­
port as the present history is a story 
of an unceasing march of ‘ triumphant 
accomplishments. The two have but 
one thing in common. In 1921 as in 
1924, there was a great deal of hard 
work expended on this undertaking 
of providing Carnegie with a song 
hook of its own.
It took three years of planning and 
of hard work before the hopes of-hav­
ing a song book materialized in the 
volume now on the campus. >
Songbook publicity . started on No­
vember 9, 1921 ,and continued inter­
mittently until the* end of last May. 
The first song book ’ committee was 
composed of Alfred Johnson, Flor­
ence Lutz, J. T. Ames, T. S.' Reppljer, 
and Florence Smith. These stu­
dents had all the pioneer work to do. 
When they organized they had to sow 
the seed of the song book idea into the 
minds of the students, and get the 
.students ready to support such,a book 
’’when it did appear.
They arranged a song contest to get 
material, and offered prizes as a fur­
ther inducement to obtain some-good 
songs. Numerous appeals were made 
to the students through the Carnegie 
Tartan, beginning February 2, 1921, 
and lasting until the contest closed 
on April 16, 1921. Even then, there 
was very little material on hand.
Other songs came in slowly, but the 
enthusiasm died down, and had to bo 
fanned mightily sometimes, to keep it 
alive. It probably would have died 
out entirely if the Carnegie Tartan 
had not taken the matter in hand in 
Novembeivl923.
When the Tartan took charge of 
the affair, 'it was found that there, 
was a great deal more to be done 
than was at first supposed.
Copyrights had to be approved, 
proofs corrected, a printing company 
contracted with, and materiaHput into 
shape, with cuts, etc.
At the first meeting of the Tartan 
staff in November, 1923, a general 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Inter-Fraternity Ball 
To be Held April 10
Invitations to Wandering 
Greeks on Campus
April 10, the Thursday before the 
Easter recess, lis^the date selected 
by the 'Interfraternity Council for the 
Interfrat'ernity ball. This annual 
event of the fraternities is the one 
affair at Carnegie in which all the 
fraternities join. The ball will be 
held at the University Club and every 
fraternity man on the campus is eli­
gible to attend, i
A special invitation will be given 
to all the Wandering Greeks on the 
campus, that is, to members of fra­
ternities not having a chapter at 
Carnegie. The members of the com­
mittee have expressed a sincere wish 
that all Wandering Greeks accept 
the invitation extended to them.
The following men, representatives 
of different fraternities are on the 
committee: C. Kuhn, chairman; M.
D. Kallfelz, C. James and It. E. 
Moon.
The dance will be formal and the 
hours will be from 9 to 2.
Ceremony to be Beautifully 
Shown in Impressive Ex-
The crowning of the Campus Queen 
seems too beautiful a cei’emony to 
write about in a mere newspaper, 
which; after all, has nothing but black 
letters on an uninspiring background 
with which to describe so much lovely 
color and grace of movement.
This year the ritual promises to sur­
pass all other years in beauty of cos­
tume and setting, and great plans are 
being made to make it surpassingly 
beautiful.
The. one factor yet unknown, and 
the ofie. necessary to make the crown­
ing complete, is the identity of the 
queen, herself. That is to be deter­
mined after the following fashion. On 
April 8, 9, and 10, Tuesday, Wednes­
day, and Thursday, ballots will be 
•cast deciding upon the fifteen best- 
looking Senior girls. Immediately fol­
lowing the-Easter vacation, thero will 
be another vote taken, by which the 
three most beautiful of the fifteen will 
be chosen. Finally, on May 13, the 
girl who is to be Queen of Campus 
Week will be selected, and - the un­
known quantity will be no longer rep­
resented by "x”, but by Carnegie’s 
chosen QUEEN.
As the men and women of the four 
colleges vote, their, names will be 
checked off by the girl taking charge 
of the ballot in each school. This is 
a new feature 'this year, and it is 
believed that by such a method, a fair 
election will be assured. Another idea 
adopted this year is to have movies 
taken «• of the three semi-finalists as 
well as of the final ceremony. At the 
crowning, the fifteen girls first select­
ed will form the guard of honor.
Every detail of the ceremony is 
being prepared with the greatest in­
terest and care, and the girls whose 
task it is to see that the affair is 
as beautiful as it can be made are 
already hard at work on the costumes 
and setting. Elections carried for­
ward in the same spirit of interested 
co-operation will make the rite a real 
and lasting success.
THREE FRATERNITIES 
TO CHANGE LOCATION
The report which was circulated on 
the campus last week that two of the 
houses on Forbes street opposite the 
campus were t^o have fraternities as 
tenants after May first, received some­
thing of a crimp when the owners of 
one of the two properties positively 
denied that the house had been rent­
ed to a fraternity. It is an assured 
fact that Sigma Epsilon Phi will oc­
cupy the house at the corner of More- 
wood and Forbes. Whether the owner 
of the other house in question was 
talking for effect remains to be seen.
The addition of Sigma Epsilon Phi 
raises the number of fraternities just 
off the campus on Forbes street to 
five. Forbes is the logical fraternity 
street and it is predicted that more 
and more fraternities will gravitate 
to it as time goes on until a frater­
nity row has been built up.
Other fraternities which are mov­
ing this spring are Delta Upsilon, 
which will shift its quarters to Baum 
boulevard near Morewood, and Delta 
Mu, which reports itself about to take 
possession of a house at 1655 Shady 
avenue.
Carnegie Song Book Now Appears 
Cheering Alumni’s Passing Years
"Daddy, what is an Eskimo Baby?” 
asked the six-year-old daughter of an 
Alumnus, wfco was reading a Tartan 
sent to him by mail some weeks after 
publication.
"Why, Gwendolyne, don't you know 
What an Eskimo Baby is? You know 
where the North Pole is, don’t you? 
Well, that is where Eskimos live, and 
an Eskimo Baby is just like you are, 
only it is dressed in’ its little bear 
skin.” Thus a fond parent dismissed 
the case, and continued his figuring 
for his income tax—forgetting to di­
vide by two and all that.
After a pause, during which Gwen­
dolyne was not idle, the silence was 
broken by the same voice, saying:
¦ "Daddy, if the Eskimo Baby ilves at 
the North Pole, why do they talk 
about the Moonlight Maid at the same 
time?”
"Well, you see, it is like this, the 
moon shines up the North Pole, and it 
is reflected, and after several of these 
rays—well, I can’t tell you about that 
I now, dear, I am busy. You run along 
j and roll your hoop!” Again the pa- 
j rent passed the buck back to his 
daughter.
j All this time there was nothing said 
i from the opposite side of the room, 
i but this last speech brought forth a 
| groan, with a sort of7 feminine tone, 
j followed by a deep sigh.
I (Continued on Page Four.).
General Assembly Today in New Gymnasium 
Includes Special Entertainment Program 
With Orchestra and Four Dramat Stunts
TRADITION OF MARCHING
PLEBES IS RESURRECTED
The old tradition of having Plebes 
march to Assembly is to again come 
to life today. Sophomores in Indus­
tries and Science plan to assemble all 
Plebes in-their respective buildings 
and march them down Woodlawn to 
the new gym.
It is the duty of every Sophomore 
to see that every Plebe goes to the As­
sembly and for this reason the Soph ( 
leaders ask that all their classmates 
give some help.
Newman, Polesie, Alderdice, 
Spindler, Brown, Eckhardt 
and Carnegie Troubadors 
to Feature Special Program
TIME 11:30 TO 12:30
INDUSTRIES HOLD 
SMOKER TONIGHT
Unusual Events Distinguish 
Program Announced for 
Stag Party
Industries men will hold their {lrst 
smoker from seven to ten tonight in 
the Union. Jack Foster and his as­
sistants have arranged a program tliat 
is unusual and attractive. The num­
ber of green tags that have been sold 
attests'the fact that the worth of tho 
program is recognized.
“Abie” Newman and a popular 
campus orchestra are to be two of the 
chief entertainers. Their offerings 
are to be chosen from the- Song Book, 
which makes its appearance today. 
Carnegie songs, which have never 
been heard by anyone now in school 
will be be sung or played by Carnegie 
men to a Carnegie audience.
Movies or the last football season- 
will be shown. They are the same 
pictures which received such praise at 
the Science Stag, and they show very 
clearly the exciting plays of the 
games against W. & J., Pitt,’and No­
tre Dame.
The Seniors are to put on a vaude­
ville show that according to their own 
modest assertion will eclipse anything 
that Keith’s has shown in years. Tho 
Juniors will attempt to show more 
speed than their elders by staging a 
sweepstakes race in which Hughes, 
Leebov, Stuart, and others will take 
part.
(Continued on Page Four)
GEO. S. DAVISON SPEAKS 
0N®RAILR0AD SITUATION
“The Railroad Situation” was very 
interestingly and thoroughly discussed 
by Mr. George S. Davison, prominent 
engineer and business man of Pitts­
burgh, at the Civil Engineering Sem­
inar.
Mr. Davison traced the history of 
railroading from its start early in the 
Nineteenth Century through to the 
present time. He brought out the diffi­
culties that were encountered in the 
early days and showed how the shift­
ing center of population had its effect 
on the expansion of railroads.
The growth of railroads has been 
very rapid. At the present time how­
ever there is little new track being 
laid. Most of the present develop­
ment is limited to paralleling old 
tracks and increasing the capacity of 
existing roads. The Interstate Com­
merce Commission has been instru­
mental in bringing about greater har 
mony among the roads- and eliminat­
ing cutthroat competition.
The next step in the railroad situa­
tion is the super-power development. 
A few railroads have already electri­
fied portions of their lines. Much 
more will be done along' this line in 
the future as the economic situation 
permits.
Mr. Davisoft has been connected 
with much of the pioneer railroad con- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Smith Scholarship Open 
To Engineering Juniors
Attention Juniors of the Engineer­
ing College! You are reminded that 
it is not too late for you to make 
application at the Alumni Office, for 
the George H. Smith Scholarship. 
But the time is almost up—so decide 
now, spare a few minutes and fill out 
an application blank. If you have 
taken part in activities, are in finan­
cial need and have no scholastic diffi­
culties you are eligible for the schol­
arship and your application will re­
ceive consideration by the Alumni As­
sociation of the College of Engineer­
ing. Remember—all that is asked of 
you is that you take long enough to 
call at the Alumni Office for your ap­
plication blank.
"Do the students want to be 
amused? This is the pertinent 
question uppermost in the 
minds of those responsible for 
the undergraduate welfare, and to­
day’s assembly will decide tho issue. 
It will be the second assembly of the 
month, and, as the last was 'designed 
for the student’s intellectual eleva­
tion, so today’s is designed to appease 
their pleasure-seeking natures.
Feeling that interest wds waning in 
General Assemblies, the possible 
causes of such a deplorable state wore 
investigated, and it was decided that 
with fifty-four units, the student de­
sired less erudition and moro play. So 
that.the valuable influence of promi­
nent speakers might not be sacrificed 
yet the student’s desire for diversion 
appeased, the suggestion was elicited 
to hold two General .Assemblies a 
month and roconcile tho wants of all.
Today's assembly in tho now gym 
is the first stop in this direction and 
if its reception indicates that tho stu­
dents approve, tho system may bo 
adopted. With this in mind a pro­
gram of strictly entertaining features 
has beon arranged and anyone who 
wants to loarn anything about any­
thing Is warned to stay away.
The overture will bo rendered by 
the Carnegie Troubadors, scintillat- 
ing exponents of tho Art Nouveau, 
who tire rapidly rising to fame and 
fortune under the soasonod guidance 
of Don Sonnoman.
Hereupon, a special copy of tho Car- 
nogie Song Book, handsomely bound 
in flexible leather ¿v¿|.h gilt; lettering, 
will bo presented to Dr. Baker as a 
tokon- of appreciation for, the heart­
felt Interest he has takon in this In­
stitution and the sincorlLy with which 
he has'attacked those problems which 
have confronted him.
"Si McNttdd’’, of Ropplior fame, will 
bo portrayed by Bud Stindler and Bob 
Aldordlco. Another musical skit, to 
roinajn unknown for tho present, Is 
the contribution of Hazel Brown and 
Peg Eckhart, comediennes supremo of 
the DramU Dept.
A special feature of tho program is 
“Come on Along to Tech” produced by 
Herb Polesie and in which ho himsolf 
will appear.
Obie Newman, the man on whom 
(Continued on Page Two.)
April Fool Party in 
M. M. Next Thurs.
Faculty and Students Will 
Hold Informal Tea
The annual Margaret Morrison par­
ty for faculty and' students is to be 
held Tuesday afternoon, April 1, from 
4:30 until 6:00 in the Recreation Hall.
In the past, the Senate has had 
charge of the party, but this year it 
is to be in the hands of a represen 
tative student committee.
The party will be in the nature of 
an informal tea, with music, dancing 
and stunts. The committee has en­
gaged the services of the Tartan En­
tertainers whose fame is well kryjwn 
on the Carnegie campus. During the 
intermissions, a.number of stunts will 
be presented by the different depart­
ments of Margaret Morrffcon; and in 
addition to these, will be the added 
attraction performed by the deeper 
elements of college life—the faculty.
A prize is to be awarded to the 
group that presents the cleverest re­
vue, this to be decided by three com­
petent judges.
The fact that it is to be an April 
(Continued on Page Four)
TARTAN 'STAFF MEETING^
7:30 THURSDAY EVENING
All members of The Tartan staff 
and the Song Book staff are invited 
to the fourth staff meeting of the 
year to be held Thursday evening 
at. 7:30 at the' Alpha Tau Omego 
House in Bellelleld street. The Song 
Book report will be made at this 
time, ' in addition to discussion of 
Tartan affairs and a reading of in­
signia recommendations.
FRATERNITY SCHOLARSHIP
STANDING OUT NEXT WEEK
Announcement of the scholarship 
standing of tho various fraternities on 
the campus will be made in the next 
issue of the Tartan. Records of the 
standing of the members of the fra­
ternities were mailed out to each 
house last week in order to correct 
any mistakes which might have occur­
red. These lists wore to be returned 
so that the corrected standing might 
be issued next Tuesday.
ALL PLEBES MUST 
ROBE ON APRIL 1
Fool’s Day to Replace An­
nual Poverty Day Held in 
Former Years
And now it has boon decided-that 
we shall all bo fools togother on tho 
first of April; a fino' collection of 
April fools, guaranteed fresh and 
fun-loving. Which is to say, we shall 
all be fools with tho exception of 
the Plebos, who will merely furnish 
the i’oolishnoss.
Every Plebe la required to droso 
up in just as original a fashion '.is 
ho or she can imagine, and thorn 
is no rule to it except that tho effect 
Is not to bo ono of povqrty, as it 
has boon in previous years.
Tho costumos are expected to bo 
original and entertaining.. - but so 
fabricated that they will not bo shock­
ing to tho foellng of tho powers that 
be. Movies will bo takon of all par­
ticipants in the affair and also numer­
ous pictures for downtown papers.
Partciparits will ap'poar In tho as­
sembly room of each collogo to bo 
judged, and tho winners will bo 
chosen as usual. The winners will 
then bond the parade, following tho 
Judging, ovor tho campus, with tho 
destination .GE as Maehlnory Hall 
steps, where a picture for noxl year's 
Thistle will be takon.
Those Freshmen who aro too fool­
ish to outer tho event, who are too 
Indifferent to appreciate tho real 
spirit of the day, will bo punished 
(Contlnuod on Page Two )
STAG PARTY PLANNED 
FOR SATURDAY NIGHT
The Architects aftor witnessing 
several attempts at staging a suc­
cessful stag party by the various 
other schools, will proceed to 
“knock ’em” cold with an affair next 
Saturday evening that will go down 
in history as being of a temperature 
sufficient to scorch tho fur off an 
experienced billiard ball.
For once the gentler sex will be 
absolutely unnecessary in every re­
spect, thus insuring a pleasant Lime 
for all. The committee is planning 
the affair from that great Shakes­
pearean fable "One Exciting Ni«hl’ 
and ihe party promises to hold true 
to form in every shape.
Something novel in the line of mu­
sic will be furnished by, a decidedly 
local orchestra which has consented 
to deliver an interpretation of the 
death agonies of a wallo-wampus in 
C minor, as reproduced from its 
tive state.
A prize of unknown value will be 
awarded to the class presenting the 
most original and cleverest stunt. 
Cy Hungerford, the originator of Oh 
Min! has promised to be .present, 
and will give the boys a short talk 
illustrated with ’ his popular char­
acter sketches. Several members of 
the Drama Department have been 
(Continued on Page Four)
Nominations Made for 
1924-25 Y.M.C.A, Cabinet
LAST WEEK TO BUY 
SOPH HOP TICKETS
Dramats and Dave Harman's 
Crew Will Furnish the 
Entertainment
Only three days remain in which 
to purchase tickets for tho Soph Hop. 
Last Friday they were abundantly 
available, but a heavy sale was ox- 
peetod yesterday and today. The com­
mittee refuses to allow more than a 
limited number of tickets to bo sold 
as they wish to prevent any over­
crowding of tho Schenloy ball room 
Friday night.
Tho opinion exists among some 
Froshmon that they are not ollgiblo 
for tho Hop. That belief is spoclfloal- 
ly contradictod by tho Plobo Bible 
which states that tho Sophomoro Hop 
in for "All Carnoglo”. It Is tho one 
big social event In which, tho first 
year class is allowed to participate.
Dave Harmon's exponents of the art 
of Tin Pan Alloy aro having a thor­
ough workout ovory. night in a Now 
York Hotel .and they should bo in top 
form by Friday. 'Pliny mudo, thom- 
solvos oxcoodlngly popular In I’lttB* 
burgh by thoir performance on thoir 
first appearance at tho .Iunior Prom, 
and they have boon booked for sever­
al other local dances tills spring. The 
Hop Committee lost, no time In »Inn­
ing them up aftor thoir magniilioont 
initial NRAAGL.S
Tho naturo of tho entertainment 
which tho dramats will offar during 
tho Intermission hi bolng kept a se­
cret. Tho few who have soon nnd 
hoard tho'rehearsals say that tho act 
Is very clover and ought to provo to 
be one of the most pleasant features 
of tho Hop.
This In tho last mention of the Soph 
Hop which you will see before Friday, 
S'o act quickly while the spirit Is still 
fresh upon you and before your mom- 
ory lags. Tho Hop In Ournogle’n uni* 
vernally popular dance. This year's 
promises to stirpami any that has gone 
boforo.
Tickets are $3,00. Soo any of the 
pooplo listed below, or, for that mat­
ter, «my Sophomoro, ,
Margaret Morrlnon.
Madeline naie, Loulso Bonnon, Bar­
bara White, Rosamond Mcllvuino, 
(Contlnuod on Pago Two.)
SOME FEW CONCESSIONS 
OPEN FOR CAMPUS WEEK
A tentative program will probably 
bo approvod at the meeting of the 
general Campus Week committee to­
night. While most of tho events are 
lined up, their pinces on the program 
have not yot been definitely decided.
There is still Lime for concessions 
to be given out. If any student, or 
group of students desire a concession, 
they should snap into it and send In 
their names to I-Ioffer Sload as soon 
as possible. The committee wants to 
get this part of the work settled as 
soon as possible.
The Sweepstakes will probably be 
held Saturday morning instead of 
Friday so that more of the Alumni 
can see them. A new event is being 
planned for Friday morning. It’s go­
ing to be something which every stu­
dent can attend and bring his, or her, 
better half to, and have a real time.
Harry Hamilton is working on a 
play, which, since it will be his last 
as a student, he Is making his master­
piece. Ho refuses to give out any in­
formation on it until he has definitely 
decided what it is to be about. There 
should be some dope about it soon.
SONGS, YELLS, 
CAMPUS VIEWS 
IN SONG BOOK
Brown Cover, Gold Lettering, 
and Carnegie Seal Enhance 
Appearance of the First 
Book of Carnegie Songs
29 SONGS —90 PAGES
Tlio Carnegie Song Book, which 
makes its appearance on the campus 
today, fulfills every expectation, not 
only in general makeup, but in the 
care with which the contents have 
been selected.
The book is printed on Warren 
Library text, and has a brown cloth 
binding. The size, which is seven 
and three-quarter inches by eleven in­
ches, is convenient and not too pon­
derous, yet not so small as to render 
Its intimate use impracticable. The 
cover is a rich shade of brown and 
1ms the Carnegie Seal stamped upon 
it in gold.
The ninety pages of tho hook in­
clude, in addition to the songs, four 
pagos of cuts showing tho various 
buildings.and picturosquo spots of the 
campus and two pages of yells—all 
tho cheers which aro so popular at 
football and basket ball gamos, and 
at Clan gatherings.
A|nong the twenty-nlno songs in tho 
book aro tho words and music of all 
our old standbys—tho Alma Mater in 
Itn now version by .1. Vick O’Brion: 
Dear Old Toch; Fight for the Glory of 
Carnoglo, our famous football song by 
Mob Schmort/. and Adolph llort/.borg; 
the Women's S'ong, by Elizabeth 
Stoner; Hall Carnoglo, by .1. S. Sut­
ton; On tho Warpath, by Frances Bur- 
roughs and T. 8. Uoppllor,
Tho boid, known numbers from tho 
extravaganza, “Ship Ahoy”, which was 
produced norno yearn ago by Drama 
Department, are Incorpora I,od in tho 
list, among which are Lho Nile Song, 
by M. Uononthnll and Bob Schmort'/,; 
Ship Alloy, by Robert Schinortz and 
Carl Snydor; Dove’s Waltz, by D, Pa­
gan Matthew Frey; In Hurcolonn, by 
Robert Schmort/. and Carl Snydor; 
Eiilclmo Baby, by Adolph Hort/.borg 
and Robert Schmort/,; Whimsical Wo­
men by Allco Sohopf and Robert 
8'ohmortz.
Other nongn are: Ournoglo Tech,,
by .1. D, Houdowlch and Lavuloo; Daudi 
Carnoglo, with tho tune of AuUI Dung 
Syne, arranged by Mrs. A. A, Hum*- 
morselling; Sing Pro Isos to Alum Mu-.- 
(Continued on Page Throe.)
S. C. President to be 
Nominated Next Week
Council Votes to Put Non- 
Degree Men Under P. R.
The nominations for Lho President 
of tho Student Council for Lhe school 
year li)24-'25 will bo made at the Di­
visional Assemblies which aro to be 
hold on Fool’s Day, April 1. Each 
college may nominate as many as they 
desire. One week later which is Tues- 
day, April 8, euch college will hold an 
oliminaLlon vote reducing the number 
of candidales to one. Tho president 
for the next year will then be elected 
from the four candidates from the 
four colleges by the present Student 
Council.
At the Student Council meeting last 
Wednesday , evening It was decided 
tlml^beglnning wilh next year all first 
year non-degree men with Lhe excep- 
Lion of Federal Board men will be sub­
ject lo Plebe Regulation. This ac­
tion was taken by tho Council upon 
the recommendation of the Student 
Council Plebe Regulation Committee 
and after conferring with the Non-de­
gree Men’s Club. It was felt tlial it 
would eliminate a large amounl of the 
trouble that the Sophs are experienc­
ing this year in enforcing Plebe Regu­
lation and that it would tend more to 
unify the entire student body.
I A A A A Aj. j. »j. .j. j.I .j.
DOPE ON THE SONG BOOK
Books.
Seven hundred and fifty copies
• of Lhe Song Book are available
• for sludenls.
This means that only GMBY out
• of every three/ day students
¦ will secure a copy.
Sales.
Tho books will be sold today
• and tomorrow on Lhe campus.
• See anyone of the ninety sales-
¦ men.
Price.
The cost of each Carnegie
• Song Book is a modest ONE
• DOLLAR BILL.
. A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ,
---------
The Y. M. C, A. council met Wed- 
j ncsday, March 10, for the purpose of 
. electing officers for the year 102-4-25.
• J The nominations for president
• were: B. C. Frazier, F. C, Hoenniger 
’ and O. B: Newman; for vjee president 
[¡the nominations were: Mnx Bastlan 
. and Ray Gill; for secretary: P, A,
• J Medert, P. EJ; Moyer'and J. L. Seaman.
• j Any five active members may make 
' additional nominations to any or all 
J o£ these office» by submitting the 
. | nominees’ names ovrq’ their own sig-
. | natures to-the Y. M. Cj A; office. The |
• additional names must be In before
• I March twenty-seventh.
• | The voting will be by return postal
• , cards which will be sent out to mem-
• i bers on March twenty-seventh.
Song Book Features Rusticanna
And Shortage of the Fresh Banana
Copyrighted, 19112 
By Isaac Newton.
The Carnoglo Song Book, that long 
promised publication extolling tho 
aims and ambitions no dear lo Lho 
hearts of tho college boys and girls 
of our acquaintance, has at last ap­
peared, This momentous volume will 
undoubtedly be distributed broadcast 
to the managers of various and sun­
dry burlesque and musical comedies 
throughout the country. Messrs. Cal- 
lagher and Shoan have priority on 
ten of the songs, while Zeigfield is 
negotiating for fifteen of the cant6s.
The book itself is a masterpiece, 
compiled from the archives of our an- 
cestors whose achievemenls made
| those traditions which wo hold so sac­
red today, oxlolling tho vicLorlOH and 
I eolobralions of olden days. Tho great­
est minstrels and bards who over 
graced Lhe porLals of this InnLILuLlon 
have donated Lheir works (after re­
jection by publishers) and declare 
that they will take only a mlBorablo 
stipend, 95 por cent of the sales re­
ceipts, as their moans-of munificent 
renumeration.
It would not, perhaps, be amiss to 
quote some few of the spontaneous 
overflowings of the souls of oiir late 
poetic talent. By this means euch and 
every sLudent will have a chance to 
relish the gems of poet lore and to 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 25. 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Ifintered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EBITOR-IN-CHIIDF
H. F. SIMPSON......................................................................................Schenley 9143
BUSINESS MANAGER J. C. MAJOR.............................................................................................Illland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD...................
FRED C. SMITH...........................
FRED T. PHELPS........................
..Schenley 9189—Managing Editor
..............Assistant Managing Editor
.............Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERET 
MARK S. DOWNES 
II. H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
.Schenley 9220
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ........................................................................................ Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI....................................................................................... Schenley 9070
A. E. KROOH. 
E. C. FRAZIEI
..Schonloy 9070—Alumni Editor 
.Schenley 9148—Athletic Editor
R. W. SLEATH .................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY.................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. CO USE, JR............................................................................................Art Editor
DON GARDNER ................................................................................ Special Writer
GIBSON & PHILLIPS 
SELECT BEAUTIES
SONG BOOK STAFF Senior Explains Why
Awards to be Made at Gen­
eral Assembly, April 8; Cup 
Will be Presented
T. J. DI3MPSMY..........................................................................Circulation Muiiagor
W. M. GIBSON.............................................Schenley 9211—Advertising Manager
B. BROUDY................................................................Assistant Business Manager
Estelle Garibaldi 
Elizabeth Jane Gordon 
Wilma Stlner 
Carol Foight 
Muí garet McFall 
Rosemary McCambrldgo 
Nora Willetts
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Almeo Pharo 
N. C. Wosor 
V. B. Smith 
L. II. Harris 
E. G. .Johnson 
K. Fulmer 
A. F. Carson
J. M. Goss 
F. M. McClelland 
M. W. Gay 
C. A. Lundfjulst 
R. L. Lepper 
J. N. Conley 
Holllnshead
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao G. E. Jacoby J. Christoff J. F. HarrisE. C. Plummer
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moslcovltz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Bar- 
brow, A. Perreton, Leo C. Osborn, E. L. Reeves.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will be withhold if desired. All nows Items must be in the student 
post olllco before 4:80 Thursday.
1:20.
Tartan Oilice—Room 5-A, Industries Building. Olllco hours—Daily 12:80-
THE WARPATH AND THE SONG BOOK
“On the Warpath” and SONG HOOK arc; synonymous, as the 
Carnegie Tartan has adopted this slogan as the watchword oJ! the 
»Song Book Campaign.
It’s an old, old saying, though somewhat differently dressed, 
that in order to accomplish anything the doer must first get pretty 
serious.
When a band ol! Indians painted their faces all colors of the rain­
bow, and decided to go “On the 'Warpath," the settlers agreed that 
the Indians were getting pretty serious. Whether they accomplished 
anything or not, before they were knocked OFF the warpath, the 
fact that they were “On the Warpath" proved that they were out 
for business, whatever that business was.
The Carnegie Tartan has been “On the Warpath” since last 
November whon the present campaign to put the Song Book on tho 
Carnegio Campus began.
And now we have the culminai,ion ol! it all.
TODAY IS SONG BOOK DAY AT CAllNEGIE.
And quite a momentous day, too, for today our dream of many 
years has become an agreeable reality.
Many times in the past we have been disappointed in our watch­
ful waiting for a Song Book now THE BOOK IS HERE.
Not only is it here but it goes on sale today, immediately follow­
ing (¡onerai Assembly in tho New Gym, when tho whole CARNEGIE 
TARTAN stall! will bo out to soli every Carnegie student a SONG 
BOOK.
And that’s that.
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, the Student Council, and the writ­
ers ol! these songs have expended a great amount of work in order 
that this dream of years might bocomo a reality, and will continue 
to do it by oiì'oring this book to you, that is to say, by giving thoir 
limò to a short, intensive salo» campaign. To eap the climax, to in- 
sure the success ol! this deserving project, the Song Book needs tlvo 
support ol! every Carnegie Student.
Here's the dope:
The Carnegie Song Book is being sold for ono dollar, but it’s 
worth every bit ol’ three bucks. Suoli a low price is possible because 
the entire CARNEGIE TARTAN stall’ is doing I TOD necessary work 
connected with tho launching ol’ the project. II’ the members of the 
stall! wore paid for their time the price ol! the book would be tripled.Itliy A SONG BOOK today il’ you do noi have tho dollar lo 
day, bring it tomorrow anyway- IMIY A SONG IU)()K!
STUDENT CALENDAR^
The Beauty Contest is on the last 
lap! Only one more Judge will bave 
tho pleasure of choosing the six most 
beautiful girls from Carnegie Tech, 
and that judge will be Tony Sorg. 
Owing to certain newspaper publicity 
which Is given the contest this week 
end, It. was Impossible to get the pic­
tures off before Sunday, so the ilnal 
announcement will not be made until 
the end of next week.
Charles Dana Gibson, the second 
judge, has picked the ones which he 
thinks are the most attractive, and he 
has done very nobly. It Is strange, 
though, how two minds seem to run 
In the same channels, but bis choice 
for the first two places was just the 
same as the choice made by Coles 
Phillips. The last four places are 
very much different from anything 
which has been heretofore evidenced, 
for Mr, Gibson departed from all 
former selections, and picked girls 
for his last four places who were put 
aside by the other who have looked 
them all over. This makes the situa­
tion more intricate, for now we 'have 
eight contestants for the last four 
places, moaning that for two judges, 
each one has picked a different girl. 
Thlfl matter will be easily settled by 
Tony Sorg, and, unless he does upset 
our plans by picking six more girls, 
he will make the ilnal judgment close 
the contest.
Tommy Griggs said the other day 
that he thought it altogether possible 
that the contest awards could be 
made at the General Assembly which 
will be held on the eighth of April. 
This will mean that Lhe winners Can 
go home for Easter with a new inter­
est in life, for their fame will be wide­
spread, and their beauty heralded by 
Lho enLIre world. Certain questions 
which have come up about the pub­
licity have been not quite satisfactory, 
and we are now sure that everyLhing 
wMl come ouL nicely by April 8.
The plans are not/yet rounded ouL 
for Lhe assembly, but we hope to have 
the girls appear from behind- some 
sort of screen, and dazzle the audi­
ence—and they will do all of LlmL, 
for there are dazzling beauLies among 
Lhe lot. The Beauty Cup will be 
given*to the winner aL this time, and 
we hope Dean Brown will perform the 
rites.
Perhaps the announcement of the 
Ilnal judgment will be ready by Lhe 
LI mo for Lhe nexl. TarLan, and if so 
Liiore will be several startling revela- 
Llons. Watch Lhe bulletin boardB, 
girls, for you may be called to appear 
beforo thq CourL of Judges,
GENERAL ASSEMBLY TODAY
INCLUDES SPECIAL STUNTS
(Conllnuod From Page One.)
Al .Toison lias noLhlng, promises sov- 
oral whimsical, Louehlng porsonallLioB, 
mingling smiles with tears, ridiculing 
what lie loves, (Offering sympaLhy 
where ho laughs.
Yells will complete Lho program and 
II iti hoped LlmL Lho assembly will run 
without hitch throughout,
GEO. S. DAVISON SPEAKS
ON RAILROAD SITUATION
GENERAL COMMITTEE
Alfred S. Andrews, chairman. 
Estelle Garibaldi, secretary. 
Frederick Dj Rossini, treasurer. 
W. Winning,
Sara Mae Everett,
¡A. E. Ki'ogh, alumni sales.
Acknowledgement Committee.
Margaret E. McFall, chairman. 
Helen Corrao.
Ball is to be Formal [_FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
Copyright Corrmittee.
Rosemary McCambrldgo, chairman.
PUBLICITY COMMITTEE
Frederick D. Rossini, chairman. 
Fred T. Phelps, Campus Publicity. 
N. C. Weser, Night School Public­
ity.
From all Lhe reports and rumors 
Plan to Put Affair on Higher i that can be gathered together the 
Standard in Future I €arn«!gie song Book has become a 
_______ j reality. To all of us this is good
_ . i news, but to those who have beenThe announcement that the Senior here ^ Qr fonr yean.
Ball will be made formal this year has . j]aVe witnessed all Lhe efforts that 
caused much comment, especially in | have been made in thL, past to bring
DISTRIBUTION COMMITTEE
T, J. Dempsey, chairman.
J. W. Metro,
L. C. Osborne,
L. E. Barbrow,
R. Ij. Sandrock.
Nora Willetts
SALES MANAGERS
W. Winning,
Sara Mae Everett.
Preliminary Sales. 
Wilma Stlner, chairman,
GENERAL SALES
Win. Gibson, chairman.
Commons Sailes.
M. S. Downes, chairman.
J. A. Ropp,
J. P. Boyd,
G. W. Van Vecton,
M. Sherman,
J. Aitkenliead,
C. Mclness,
General Assembly Sales. 
Ken Arnold, chairman.
M. M. Sa’es. 
ElizabeLh J. Gordon, chairman. 
Lillian Cuningham.
Kathleen Orr,
Edith Warren,
Barbara White,
Martha Lamade,
Engineering Science Sales. 
.T. C. Major, chairman,
E. Lj Reeves,
B. Broudy,
M. W. Gay.
A. F. Carson,
A. Y. Blair,
R. V. Horne,
Arts Sales.
L. II. Harris, chairman.
C. A. Lundquist.
Almeo Pharo,
D. K. Mims.
M. Holllnshead,
Industries Sales.
J. M. Goss, chairman,
1C. L. Johnson,
F. L. Wagner,
D. M. Davidson.
the Senior class. Some are in favor 
and some decidedly against it. The 
committee made this decision after 
much deliberation and in this article 
hopes to show thaL Lhe acLion was 
jusLiflable.
We strive to reach a level with, the 
best schools in athleLlcs and are 
achieving success. We eclipse most 
schools scholastically. Why not work 
i for recognition socially? We are noted 
j for our great spirit. Why not be 
I noted for one fine social, life? This 
] does not mean that we should go to 
extremes by Increasing the number of 
our social events. Our best move is 
to improve those which are already 
wljat may be called institutions on the 
campus. This was the committee’s 
main idea in making the ball formal, 
pureLy a formal Senior dance will lend 
distinction to one social atmosphere.
There is still another reason. The 
Juniors turn all their effort toward 
making the Prom a great success and 
a man never forgets his Junior Prom. 
The Sophomores have their Soph Hop, 
a dance which a man rarely misses 
after attending the first one. What 
social event have the Seniors to work 
for and remember as the bright spot 
in their last year? In most colleges 
the Senior ball vies with the Junior 
Prom for first honors on the college 
social calendar. It belongs solely to 
the Seniors and they share it only 
with the alumni. The under classmen 
look forward to the day when they 
will be eligible to aLLend. ’ IL becomes 
a tradition. Up to this year most any 
student at Carnegie could attend the 
Senior ball and, as a consequence, the 
'Seniors have not been particularly 
anxiouB to be present, except for the 
fact that it was a dance. The dis­
tinctness of the Junior Prom has 
given it the place it holds in Ameri­
can College life. Why not make the 
Senior Ball an affair that a man at- 
Lends only once during his college 
career? AfLer all it Is these affairs 
which really stick in a graduate’s 
mind years after he gets his diploma.
it is a well known saying that Car­
negie students'are different from all 
others. They differ from many stu- 
denL bodies I^i that they put over any 
good thing in a big way. If the Sen­
iors want to make Lheir ball -the ouL- 
sLanding funcLlon of Lhe year they 
will do iL and in so doing will help 
Lo bring Carnegie Lo a place coveLed 
by every school—fine athletics, schol­
astic standards and a high Lype of col­
lege life. Up and aL ’em, Seniors.
(Conllnuod From Pago Ono.) 
Mti'licLlon In Ilio IMLLshurgh district. 
Hu In proHidonl; of Ilio (lull' Refining 
Co. nnd has sorvod In that capacity 
»duco I j- slarL In 100*1. lit* Is a mom- 
bor ni’ noverai onglnoorlng sooloLlos 
I and In a former vico prosidonL of Lho 
I A. 8. C. !¦:.
'rilUSDAY, MAHOII 2ti
¦(lonoi'iil Assembly................................................A, M., New Q-ym
Jong Boolt Sales.......................................................All Day, On Campus
Industries Smoker.......................................................7:30 l\ M., Union
THURSDAY, MAKC1I ‘27
Chapel...............................................................1 '2:50 I’. M., Arts Theater
Ttirtan Stuff Meeting.....................................7 ¡¡10 J*. M.f A. 'I’. O. House
1<’RII>AY, MARCH 28
Sopli Hop ...................!> :0() P. M., Schenley Hotel
SATURDAY, MARCH 29
IJpper-Classmen’s Dance............................................8:110 1*. M., M. M.
Architects’ Party.................................................Senior Drafting Room
TUESDAY, APRIL 1
Fools’ Day Exercises......................................11:30 A. M.. On Campus
Fools’ Day Party........................................••:0U I5- Mi, M- M- Rec- Hall
FRIDAY, APRIL 4 
Girls’ Senior Ball............................................................Schenley Hotel
Fraternities Sales. 
Fred C. Smith, chairman. 
IClltie Fulmer.
D, A. Gardner,
M. p. Kali feta«
M. Scrimgoour.
F. M. McClelland,
J. W. MoCreedy.
S. Murmelsteln,
F, C. Patterson,
It. Rolglomler,
W. Sandberg,
H. N. Smith,
V. B. Smith,
F. t'LllOfl,
Kj W. Wright,
F. O. Saylor,
D. C). Cromwell,
he Song Book to pass, it is especial­
ly good news. It is as though a 
dream for which we had given up 
all hope of ever coming true had act­
ually become a reality. Last year 
the Song Book was the bane of The 
Tartan reporters life for iL was a 
regular weekly assignment and one 
upon which there was little, if any, 
news obtainable.
Now that we have the Song Book, 
the question might be asked, of whaL 
value is iL to us? Is it worth the 
trouble and expense of putting it 
out? Is iL worlh lo you the dollar 
thaL you are paying for IL? The 
chief value of the Song Book lies in
DEPT. HEADS ADDRESS 
FRESHMAN ASSEMBLY
that it is a means of collecting to­
gether and perpetuating all the 
melodies and compositions which 
have been composed and written by 
the students. This in itself is suf­
ficient reason for the publication, for 
in these songs are expressed all tho 
sentimentalities and love which we 
hold towards our Alma Mater.
But it has many other values. The 
book will contain all the popular 
school yells and several pages of 
cuts of scenes on the campus. It 
will then be a means - of broadcast­
ing to the country our school songs 
and yells so that they become as 
well known and as popular as those 
of older and larger colleges. And 
about school spirit. It is generally 
recognized that that thing called 
school spirit is usually.^ absent, or 
largely so, at Technical Institutions 
because of the nature of the work. 
At Carnegie Tech this is not true 
and our Song Book will be a means 
of demonstrating thaL fact.
HOURS OBSERVED BY
CARNEGIE LIBRARIES
KILTIES GIVE SECOND 
CONCERT AT MAYVIEW
For the past two years the same 
hours have been observed by both
The regular Freshman assembly in the Hut Library and the Arts Branch 
the College of Engineering last week! Library in the Fine Arts College. Yet 
was well atLended, and Lhe confidence (lu*te a little confusion seems Lo ex- 
thus shown in the program commit- ¡Bt on ‘he part of both «acuity and: students m this respect. The sched- tee was not misplaced, as some veryules ar0 p08ted permanently in the 
interesting addresses were made by 
the heads of two of Lhe deparLments.
Colonel Day, Dean of Freshmen, 
opened the assembly with announce­
ments to unexcused absences, which 
were duly taken to heart by the 
Plebes, especially in view of the prox­
imity of mid-semester exams.
Prof. F. M. McCullough, Head of 
•the Department of Civil Engineering, 
followed with a talk on that profes­
sion. . The different branches of the 
department were each taken up, and 
their individual fields made clear, the 
importance of accuracy being stressed 
in all.
The field of the Commercial En­
gineer was then explained by Dr. W.
F. Rittman, Head of the Commercials, 
and the advantages accruing from 
that course thoroughly discussed. Be­
ing the latest of Lhe engineering 
branches, Dr. Rittman said, the 
course was looked on as an experi­
ment by many, but the importance of 
business in the technical and ¡indus­
trial world had made Lhe value of 
such training to be well realized. The 
broadened field of commercial engi­
neering was also touched upon.
The timeliness of these talks made 
them Lhe more welcome Lo Lhe many 
Freshmen who ,are now endeavoring 
Lo choose Lheir course and vocaLion.
libraries and special holiday schedules 
are also posLed some time in advance 
for those students who remain on 
the campus during vacation.
Although it is Impossible to open 
the libraries before 9 a. m., books • 
can be returned before that time 
by use of the slot in the door.
The following are the regular 
schedules which are observed:
The Hut:
Daily except Friday and Saturday— 
9:00 a. m. to 9 p. m. Friday and 
Saturday, 9 a. in. to 5 p. m.
Arts Branch:
'Daily except Saturday—9 a. m. to 
9 p. m. Saturday, 9 a. m. to 12 
noon.
ARTS SCHOOL PLEBES
ELECT CLASS OFFICERS
Last Tuesday, after the regular 
Arts assembly, the Plebes held a 
short meeting and elected officers 
for the second semester. Out of the 
favorable list of nominees, the follow- 
ng were elected: President, John
Carr; vice president, Grace Glennon; 
secretary, Dorothy Boyle; treasurer, 
George McKinney; senate represen- 
tativeé, Elizabeth McClaggart and 
William. Lockard.
Three of thesé' students occupied 
the same positions last semester and 
have proved themselves very capable 
. -f holding office.
ALL PLEBES MU8T
ROBE ON APRIL.
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
woll for non-aLLondanco. They will 
i bo required (0 drosH up aL a future 
date, and add •itmoyphore to general 
tfSBembly, all by thomselvos. This 
| is a rule passed by lluv four school reg* 
j ulalion committee, and a Plebe’s only 
oxcuso for not appearing is serious 
illness.
In previous years there has been a 
great deal of fun 011 "Poverty Day,” 
and “All Fool's Day,” which is tak­
ing the place of the old “Poverty 
I Day’*, is expected to produce just as 
' much enjoyment.
J Even now the Plebes are preparing 
j clever costumes for Lhe occasion.
Men’» Dormitories Sales. 
I Wilson, chairman.
E, Jacoby,
HAD HUNTED LONG ENOUGH
Rules For “Ail Fools’ Day”
All costumes are to'be worn between 11:20 A. M. and 1:30 P. M. 
only.
a. Freshmen will postively be prohibited from attending classes 
attired in their costumes.
b. All costumes should be original and should indicate that some 
thought has been exercised in designing them.
Freshmen In the various schools will be judged at their respec­
tive school assemblies which will start at 11:30 sharp.
a. The general Plebe Regulations Committee of each school com­
posed of the Judge of Trials and the Presidents of the three 
classes shall act as Judges and select the Freshmen who re­
ceive the greatest amount of applause as they present them­
selves before the assemblies.
b. Two eliminations may be necessary but such will be left to 
the discretion of the committee.
c. The members of the Student Council of each oollege will act 
as a censorship committee In their respective colleges. All 
costumes adjudged by this committee to bo objectionable will 
be barred from judgment and from appearing In the parade.
, a. Not over four men and not over four women will bo exempted 
from all Freshmen regulations In the College of Fine Art» and 
not loss than two women and two men shall bo exempted.
b. Not more than eight nor loss than four shall bo exempted In 
the College of Engineering, In the College of Industries, and 
in the Margaret Morrison College.
c. Exemption cards will be issued to all who are exempted.
. A parade of all Freshmen will be formed promptly at 12:30 P. M. 
by the Regulations Committee of each school on Woodlawn 
Avenue directly in front of the College of Fine Arts and the 
parade will be staged on the Campus for not more than twenty 
minutes.
a. Pictures of all the Freshmen will be taken at. the close of the 
parade.
b. Pictures of all the Freshmen exempted from regulations shall 
also be taken and their names shall be printed in the next 
issue of the Tartan following the parade.
j A young Swede appeared at the 
county judge’s office and asked« for a 
license.
! “What kind of a license?” asked 
j the judge. “A hunting license?’’
; “No," was the answer. “Aye tank;
I aye bane hunting long enough. Aye) 
| want marriage license.”—New York 
Freeman’s Journal.
E. C. Frazier,
J. ChriBtolï,
13. 0. Plummer. 
It. L. Lopper. 
W. K. Jeffries,
Girls' Dormitories Sales.
Carol Foight, chairman. 
Mary Quick,
Bernice RenLz,
Mary O'Brien.
RuLh (jiurbisch,
Helen Wilson,
Virginia Wallis,
Mary J. Cooper,
Mary Sorgen,
Bernice Zollars.
Ella Barnhart,
Elinor Wilson,
The band’s concert at May view 
last Thursday was a decided suc­
cess. The music was enormously 
enjoyed, and the musicians Lhem- 
selves had a very pleasanL evening.
A seven-piece orchestra played 
several Limes during Lhe concert 
and also provided music for a dance 
which followed.
The band will practice Thursday 
night. IL is expected that everyone 
will come ouL, as a corLaln number 
of relvearsalH aro required Lo earn 
Insignia and Lhe Lime is now grow­
ing shorL.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB TO
MEET NEXT FRIDAY EVE
The Ocamopolltun Club will hold a 
regular meeting in Lho College Club 
al 148 NorLh Craig street 011 next 
Friday evening at eighL-IU’Leen 
o'clock. The meetings oi Lhe club 
have proved so inLeresLing and varied 
this year that the members think 
thaL IL will not be necessary Lo an­
nounce Lhe naLure of Llie program 
for Friday’s entertainment but are 
planning something in the way of a 
surprise. They have adopted 
“Come and See” policy. Every one 
interested in Live work of Lhe club is 
invited to the meeting. Refresh­
ments will be served as usual.
LAST WEEK TO BUY
SOPH HOP TICKETS
One.)
Cliff
There was a young lady of Skye 
With a shape like a capital I,
She said, ‘it's too bar,
She said, “It’s too bad,
Which sliows you thaL figures can 
lie,—Albion College Plold.
(Continued From Pa;
Mary. Hughes.
Science.
Joe Raddin, Paul Bowron, Carey 
Proctor, John O’Connor.
Industries.
George Murphy, Al Thomas,
Zinn, Dwight Beede.
Arts.
Earl Wheeler, Dan Morrison, Bill 
Kennedy, Dick Reid, Kline Fulmer, 
John Osier, Ed Couse, Vic Molenauer.
Tho University of Wisconsin lias; All Section Leaders.
established a new four-year course ._______________—_________________________
known as Lhe Commercial Chemistryj 
Course, intended' for men who desire i 
to fit themselves for commercial po-| 
silions in which a knowledge of fund- j 
amenlal chemical principles is neces-i 
sary.
Night School Sales.
D. Móskòvitzi chairman, 
Hilda .Coop'er,
Dorothy Cohen,
A. Grodner,
H. E. Klugli,
L. A. Klein.
N. Leebov.
&f orSo rp inge fhno:
First—the very best Burley tobacco that 
old Kentucky grows, then—every single bit 
of it thoroughly aged in wood to take out the 
raw strength and make it mild and mellow, and 
give it a line flavor.
That’s what you get when you ask for 
Velvet Tobacco. Remember—aged in wood.
EBYYIWW & MYEns CGKVAAG XGS
NEW FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
National Fraternities.
Acacia—0110 Clydo ....................................................................Schonloy 9181)
Alpha Tau Omega -254 Bollollold........................................Schonloy 5)102
Bota Sigma 11)10—2186 Wight man........................................^Schonloy 9810
Beta Tliota PI—5549 Forbes..........................................................I-Iazol 8820
Delta Tau Delta—4902 Forboa................................................Schonloy 9281
Delta Upsllon—H22-1 Liberty.......................................................Illland 0S5S
Kappa Sigma—624 Clyde........................................................Schonloy 9101
PI Kappa Alpha—4S07 Baum..................................................Schonloy 9285
Siguia Alpha Epsilon—4915 Forbes......................................Schenley 9211
Sigma Nu—1921 Forbes............................................................Schenley 0059
Theta XI—5017 Forbos............................................................Schenley 9148
Local Fraternities.
Delta Chi Rho. 1408 Wightman St.........................................Hazel 457S-R
Delta Mu—5574 Avlesboro.............................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Plil Delta—150 North Craig.........................................Schenley 4-190
Iota Sigma Delta—5001 Wilkins...................................................Hazel 9350
Kappa Epsilon—220 South Rebecca St....................................Hilaiul 9080
Kappa Sigma Rho—444 Amberson Street............................Schenley 9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi—5S12 Bartlett...............................................Hazel 939S
Woodlawn Club—5S1-4 Forbes....................................................Hazel 9422
Chew it after every meal
It stimulates 
appetite and 
aids digestion. 
It makes your 
lood do you more 
good. Note how 
It relieves that sluflly Seeling 
alter hearty eating.
tiltenc? teeth. 
mv c c t c n m 
breath nnd 
FOR the flootly 
that
Ira-s-t-B.
Ordinar. loose caps will </et / : \will get' lost!
/§SÉS^
Don’t give a cap 
“too much rope”
• Just when you’re hurrying the most 
— zip! and away goes that shaving 
cream cap. ,The new cap on Williams 
ends the nuisance forever. It's hinged 
on and can't get lost.
In shaving, too, Williams has just as noticeable im­
provements: Williams lather is heavier and more closely 
woven. It holds the water in against the beard. Result: 
quicker softening. Williams lather lubricates — nojrri- 
tating friction. Last, Williams is decidedly helpful to the 
skin. It keeps your face comfortable no matter how 
heavy your beard and how tender your skin. There’s 
no coloring matter in Williams—it is a natural white, 
absolutely pure. Say “ W illiams Hinge-Cap” toy our dealer.WilliamsShaving Cream

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&PLAID ATHLETICS&
On the Plaid Screen
E. Ç. FRAZIER
AND THERE WAS GREAT REJOICING
It looks as though we have been almost crowded off of this page today. 
i>ut we don't mind in the least; we had nothing to say that can’t wait until 
next week. And besides that, we are so glad to see song book a reality 
that nothing else matters now.
The aspect of the song book which especially concerns the athletics of 
Carnegie Tech is that of the use of these songs for pep meetings, athletic 
contests and kindred purposes. Anything we might say along those lines 
will probably be anticipated by the reader, so there is no use of devoting 
valuable space (ask the Advertising Manager) to a further dissertation on 
the good which the song book will do. We shall merely urge you to learn 
the songs, and sing them often. They are good, and the committees which 
compiled and pushed the publication of the book are to be congratulated.
CAMPUS WEEK IS COMING
Officially, Spring has come! Please note that we say officially. At the 
time of writing, there are several inches of snow on the ground. But to be 
philosophical,- not to say sentimental, better times no doubt lie ahead. We 
offer in proof—Campus Week, May 15, 1G and 17.
Other writers far more gifted than are we, will tell you of the Corona­
tion of the Queen, of the magnificence and splendor or the Mardi Gras, of 
the bewildering procession of events which have been planned for the recrea­
tion and enjoyment of the students and alumni. Need we dwell further on 
these priceless pearls which the Spring brings to light and offers for the 
amusement of us mortals?
But one thing that might not have come to your notice is the wealth of 
sporting events which takes place during those three days. A track meet, 
two baseball games, and tennis matches are on the card—a complete enough 
sport program to satisfy the most particular.
That’s all for this week, but keep the dates in mind, -complete details 
later.
PLEBES CLOSE A 
DIFFICULT SEASON
Disappointing Hardships 
Test Plebe Team to Its 
Utmost
The Freshman Five had an excep­
tionally hard season. Victory would 
3be within their reach in many of the 
games but the “breaks” were against 
them and they would lose out by a 
small margin.
In tlie way of explanation, and by 
no means for the purpose of offering 
alibis for the team, on account of 
some of the difficulties encountered 
"b. the coach will help to clear up thé 
seeming jinx which overshadowed the 
team.
Off to a late start due to the tardy
CALL FOR STUDENTS TO 
VOLUNTEER FOR C.M.T.C.
The Military Department at Car­
negie is starting early this year in 
the campaign for volunteers to the 
Citizens’ Military Trailing Camps. 
The period for training this year will 
last for thirty days, from July 1 to 
30, inclusive.
These camps are conducted each 
year by the War Department under 
the National Defense Act. The object 
of the camps is to develop the young 
men of this country, physically and 
mentally, and make them realize their 
obligations. A great amount of out­
door work, such as athletics, games, 
etc., besides regular drill is given.
The government pays all expenses 
of those attending to and from camp, 
but not during the period of the camp. 
All those physically fit, between the 
ages of 17 and 24 a,re eligible to at­
tend the camp. Further information
M. M. JUNIORS WIN 
OVER SOPHS IN B.B.
Final Championship Game 
Between Plebes and Sophs 
Today
• -I- V *!- v *!• V *
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
WILLIBALD CHARLES
LEOPOLD TRINKS
RIFLE CLUB FOR 
WOMEN IN M. M.
The Carnegie Junior Girls’ team 
defeated the Carnegie Sophs in a 
hotly contested game last Thursday 
in the Field House. The Juniors 
took the lead early in the game but 
were soon tied by the Sophs. From 
that time on until the end oi the 
game the Juniors held a slight lead. I 
Both teams showed excellent basket] 
ball playing and it was really only 
a question of time that decided the 
winner.
By losing,this game the Sophs lost 
one chance at winning the cup for 
they had been undefeated up to that 
time. The final championship’ game 
will be played between the Sopho­
mores and the Freshmen today.
Lineup:
Soph—15. Juniors—19.
D. Cook ................F............ Li. Snyder
B. Rankin ............F................ M. Cook
L. Cunningham .. C.......... M. Markey
C.Durie ............S. C........... M. Morin I
J. Filson ...............G----- H. Dougherty j
M. Hill .................G........... M. McFall I
arrival of the coach, the Plebes were 
handicapped by having to practice In I may be had at the office of the Mill- 
Langley Lab where the gMevs block ¡**<7 Department, Room 220 Industries, 
many throws for the basket. Five j
men were picked from the squad and I PllppCt Contributions 
the coach worked hard with this com-1 
lunation, only to have.it broken after 
the first game by the failure of the 
center to make the grade. A new cen­
ter was chosen and things progressed 
well for about a week when sickness 
tooki first one of the guards and then 
one of the forwards. When they re­
covered the other guard was taken 
sick. This forced the coach to use
Puppet’s Art and Copy Contest is 
now in full swing. Some hitherto un­
known talent has already appeared 
but the responses have been confined 
to only a few individuals.
With the appearance of the Tootin’ 
different men and never to have the < number this year’s staff began its final
Percolate But Slowly
same ones practice regularly for more 
than a week.
Scarlet fever came upon us and 
gave us a chance to practice and plug 
Siard. Fortune smiled upon us in the 
form of the use of the field house for 
practice. The semester marks ap­
peared as a dark cloud upon the hori­
zon which engulfed our captain and 
three other good men on the squad. 
Some new material appeared but they 
did not bring the needed men. The 
coach, with usual resourcefulness, 
switched a guard to a forward and in­
stalled a' new man at guard. With 
this combination, which remained in 
tact except for the center, he was 
greatly encouraged by their showing 
in the hardest and final games of the 
season. They began to “hit their 
stride” and maintained it the remain­
der of the season but it was too late 
to be very effective.
To Coach John W. Irwin much cred­
it is due. for his brave attempts and 
xmceasing efforts to develop a win­
ning team under such trying condi­
tions. The fellows on the squad re­
spected and admired him because 
they understood the conditions.
Six men received their numerals 
£or their participation in basket ball:
Mauer, Forward (captain).
Lynch, forward.
Snethen, center.
Levenson, guard.
Forbes, guard.
drive to put across the final two is 
sues of the year and to win the Col­
lege Wits Contest at the same time. 
The next number will fittingly wel­
come the advent of Spring in Puppet’s 
usual breezy style.
There is a great deal of room on 
the mast head of the Puppet for new 
names for there obviously must be 
someone to carry on the work in the 
future. Collegiate humorous publica­
tions show to best advantage when 
they have a large number of contrib­
utors, for then the brand of humor 
offered is diverse and fresh.
April 15 has been set as a tentative 
date for the closing of the contest 
and until further notice copy received 
after date will not be considered in 
awarding the prizes. Anything of a 
humorous nature is Acceptable—your 
sweetheart's last mash note or your 
latest' hydraulics report may win the 
derby—who knows?
GOOD FOR FATHER!
Infant Son of Campus Professor: 
“Did you hear the stepladder fall, 
mamma?”
Mother: “Yes. I hope father didn’t
fall?”
Son: “He hasn’t yet. 'He’s hang­
ing tp the picture molding.”—Gar­
goyle.
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason 
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, j 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your! sir.—Tulane Hullabaloo, 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Adv.
Counsel: Where did he kiss you? 
Plaintiff: On the lips, sir.
Counsel: No.no! You don’t under­
stand. I mean where were you? 
Plaintiff (blushing): In his arms,
Plummer, guard, 
i The work of Hamilton, who gav<
{his services freely when the team 
| was in a dilemma is greatly appreciat- 
j ed.
! Freshman..... .-26—Varsity Scrubs. 29
Freshman..........17—Avalon ..............39
Freshman..........23—Calif. Normal.. 19
Freshman--------16—Calif. Normal.. 35
Freshman:........17—Penn State........55
Freshman..........16—Pitt ....................30
Freshman..........26—Kiski ........... 38
Freshman..........22—Beaver ..............24
Freshman..........24—Pitt ....................27
* NOTICE TO MANAGERS!
•I* There will be a meeting, of all ¦ 
•I* Varsity and Freshman team man- •
* agers in the office of the Grad- •
* uats Managers of Athletics next • 
-I- Monday, March 31, at 4:30.
This is a very important meet- ¦ 
-> ing and a full attendance is de- 1 
rl- sirod.
PROF. SPR0ULL TAKES 
INDUSTRIAL POSITION
It is with regret that tho departure 
of Prof. Clarence W. Sproull, former 
head of tho Department of Drawing, 
and Machine Design, is noted. Prof. 
Sproull, although here last semester, 
left at the beginning of this term in 
order to take up a position with the 
Union Switch and Signal Company.
For the past fourteen years lie has 
been associated with the teaching 
staff at Carnegie, preparing for this 
work at Rose Polytechnic Institute, 
where he graduated in 1909 with B. 
S. degree. The degree of M.E. was 
conferred upon him in 1919. After 
graduation he accepted a position at 
Carnegie and has been here ever 
since, finally attaining the position of 
Head of the Machine Design Dept.
The Union Switch and Signal Co. is 
fortunate in securing the services of 
Prof. Sproull and it is to be hoped 
that success will attend him in his 
new affiliation even more than it did 
at Carnegie.
M. M. ASSEMBLY
The Margaret Morrison assembly 
room was crowded to the doors last 
Tuesday, March IS, to hoar Miss 
Grace Abbott, representing the Fed­
eral Child Labor Bureau.
Her talk was of especial intorost 
to the students in the Social Work 
Department since her theme was 
the treatment of the child’s position 
in the field of labor, appealing for 
closer co-operation between State and 
Federal laws. Miss' Abbott is urging 
a movement to have the minimum 
standard—and this minimum standard 
to be raised by the individual states. 
Miss Abbott earnestly believes that 
the passage of these laws will remedy 
the deplorable conditions prevailing 
in some of the states.
“Europe,” she says, "is in some 
respects superior to the United 
¦States in the solving of her child- 
labor problem, although several 
states in the Onion have remark­
ably nigh standards.”
The Plebes, who were to have had
"Some students will never learn, 
and even then only imperfectly. If so 
why so, if not why not”, says Pro­
fessor Trinks, Head of the Depart­
ment of Mechanical Engineering. “Tho 
engineer who can foresee everything 
has not yet been born and if he had 
been born ho would wear a number 
nineteen hat." Such is the philosophy 
of the professor.
Professor Trinks is one of the char­
ter members of Carnegie Tech. He 
taught through the early stages of the 
school down at 315 Sixth avenue, 
where Mr. Hammerschlag had offices, 
while the school buildings were being 
erected. Professor Trinks recites 
with delight how in the early days lie 
and Mr. Connelly worked the design 
for the equipment of the various 
shops, aud how he designed the “A” 
Frame for the Machine Shops as a 
temporary measure. The “A" Frame 
itself is used today as it was designed 
by Professor Triults in 1905.
The nickname of Prof. Trinks is 
well known. He is known as “Slide 
Rule Trinks”. This name was at­
tached to him because he insisted 
from the very beginning that the slide 
rule is the greatest time-saving instru­
ment of the engineer, and because he 
gave instruction to the students in the 
use of the slide rule as soon as they 
came to him. “I am always very busy, 
he says, “but I always have time for 
students”.
In addition to Ills manifold duties 
at Carnegie, Prof. Trinks carries out 
the work of consulting engineer for 
the Mesta Machine Company, Jones 
and Laughlin Steel Corporation, and 
several other smaller concerns. He 
is author of “Shaft Governors”, “Gov­
ernors and Governing of Prime Mov­
ers”, and “Industrial Furnaces”, and 
is editor of “Fuels and Furnaces”, a. 
monthly paper which is printed in 
Pittsburgh. Prof. Trinks is Honorary 
Chairman of the Carnegie Mochanical 
Engineering Society, which is a stu­
dent branch of the American Society 
of Mechanical Engineers. He was in­
strumental in having the society es­
tablish a branch at Carnegie.
Professor Trinks likes to tell how 
the bulletin on "Suggestions for tho 
Selection of an Engineering Course” 
was started. “In the early days tho 
Freshmen were told to visit tho va­
rious department heads and to ask 
questions on tho courses and on tho 
various thoorios of engineering. Of 
course almost overyono of the stu­
dents asked the same question and 
the professors kept giving almost tho 
same answer. Being tired of giving 
the same answer day after day gavo 
me the idea of writing up a pamphlet 
on the mechanical engineor and hav­
ing it printed on tracing cloth, dupli­
cated, and loaned to students who 
wanted to, have information oil Mo­
chanical Engineering. Tho plan took 
so well that the other department ac­
cepted It and did tho samo thing, KG 
the present little booklet was mado 
and completed by having Ely write 
the introduction.”
Quito a while ago Professor Trinks 
started in his office a register of tho 
graduates of tho Mechanical Engi­
neering Department. IIo lcoops a card 
index of every graduate with ono or 
more pictures of tho man on tho card, 
He stays In touch with tho men by 
requesting them to write him at least 
once a year.
A parting word of advice from Pro­
fessor Trinks is: “Don’t look on tho
next man’s paper because ho knows 
less about you than you do yourself 
although you might think that’s im­
possible.”
Some ingenious person at the Uni­
versity of Nebraska has opened a 
sandwich shop, where tho students 
may 'buy anything that they want to 
eat. An additional attraction is add­
ed to the place by virtue of the fact 
that educational as well as comical 
moving pictures are shown Lo the 
students while they are eating.
charge of assembly last week, have 
delayed their entertainment until 
April 29.
THE STUDENT COUNCIL
What it is and of Whom It Consists
Captain Lyons Organizes New 
Movement for Co-Eds of 
Carnegie
Within tho past few weeks a Rillo 
Club lor .Carnegie Women has been 
organized on tho campus under the 
able leadership of Captain Lyons of 
the 11. O. T. C. Department. The 
movement had a very humble origin 
in the Freshman class or M. M. C. 
C., but soon spread to other classes 
where it was enthusiastically re­
ceived. The club now uunibors 13S 
members who meet Tuesday and 
Thursday afternoons in the Margar­
et Morrison Rifle Range to receive 
instruction from Captain Lyons. The 
first lessons have been devoted al­
most entirely to "sighting” and a 
thorough study of the mechanism of 
the gun. There is a great amount 
of promising material which should 
later develop into a Women's Var­
sity team of which we may be proud. 
The success attained by the Women’s 
Rifle Club is due in a large meas­
ure to the tireless efforts of Captain 
Lyons, aud the co-op'eraticm of the 
Men’s Rifle Club aud R. O. T. C. in 
furnishing guns, targets and ammu­
nition.
ENTERTAINED ON SUNDAY I PLANS FOR TRACK
Dean Brown will entertain tho 
Mid-wést Club at tea at 4:00 next 
Sunday afternoon at her homo. Miss 
Brown has boon entertaining sever­
al of the clubs and organisation re­
cently.
Last Saturday several members 
of the club visited the Heinz plant. 
This was the first of a series of in­
spections tours to be taken around 
Pittsburgh.
A short business session will be 
held at the meeting next Sunday. 
Miss Brown lives at 920 St. »lames 
street.
CAMPUS WEEK SPORT 
SCHEDULE GIVEN OUT
Assurance
Wherever there is a banking 
center this bank is known. 
Those travelers availing 
themselves of Mellon letters 
of credit, or travelers’ checks 
are assured of the recogni­
tion which follows Identifica­
tion with well and favorably , 
known banking interests.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbug-c^h, Pa.
The place you have been look­
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
feE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
writh the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning.; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience un­
necessary; no canvassing. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newswriters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y.
From time to time we will run an explanation of the different organiza­
tions on the campus for the benefit of those who do not know what the 
organizations are.
The following explains the organization and membership of the Student 
Council:
ORGANIZATION
The §tudent Council is composed of twenty-two representatives and 
three non-voting members, including the President of the Student Council,
I five representatives from Margaret Morrison, five from Arts, four from 
| Science, four from Industries, one from the Men's Athletic Association, one 
; from the Women's Athletic Association, and three non-voting assistant sec- 
I retaries from the Secretarial course in Margaret Morrison.
MEMBERSHIP
President—T. N. Griggs, 5418 Baum Boulevard................................Schenley 2285
Vice President—Teasdale Barney, 5549 Forbes Street........................Hazel 3320
¡Secretary—Adah Borgerding, 27 Dinsmore Avenue.................Walnut 0631-W
Treasurer—H. Dykeman, 624 Clyde Street.................................Schenley 9401
ARTS
President of Senate—Teasdale Barney, 5549 Forbes Street................Hazel 3320
i Senior Class—M. Arthur Brace, 4921 Forbes Street........................Schenley 0569
| Vice President Senate—Helen B. Johnson, 4916 Forbes Street. .Schenley 9079
Senate Representative—Alfred D. Reid, Darlington Apts.............Schenley 3944
¡Senate Treasurer—V. S. Mollenauer, 5812 Bartlett Street................Hazel 9398
ENGINEERING
; President of Senate—James Robertson, 624 Clyde Street............8chenley 9401
Senior President—fc. N. Hollingsworth, 802 E. Hutchiaon................Hlland 1820
Senior Representative—Ellis Robertson, 5814 Forbes Street............Hazel 9422
I Senate Treasurer—Milo Matter, 4921 Forbes Street........................Schcnley 1659
INDUSTRIES
President of Senate—F. M. Gore, 630 Clyde Street.......................Schenley 9189
¡Senior President—Sam E. Dyke,’624 Clyde Street.......................Schenlcy 9401
Senate Representative—H. E. Dykeman, 624 Clyde Street..........Schenlcy 9401
Senate Treasurer—M. Kalfelz, 4807 Baum Boulevard....................Schenley 9285
MARGARET MORRISON
President of Senate—Blair JeBsop, 4321 Saline Avenue......................Hazel 2748
Senior President—Frances McClymonds, 502 Hays Street............Franklin 0302
| Senior Representative—Adah S. Borgerding, 27 Dinsmore Ave., Walnut 0637-W
i Senate Treasurer—Bernice Rentz, 5150 Forbes Street...............Schenley 9204
MEN'S ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
Representative—O. B. Newman, 4600 Forbes Street.
GIRLS’ ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
¡President—Mary Heilig, 5810 Murrayhill Avenue.........................Montrose 5163
ARE YOU GETTING THE
MOST FROM COLLEGE?
We sometimes wonder wholher stm 
dents realize that wlintt they get out 
of a college education Is directly 
proportional to what they put Into 
the community life of the university.
The old Idea that education moans 
solely the accumulation of knowlodgo 
is fast dying out and nowadays wo 
expect much more from tho educatod 
man than tho acquirements of a 
pedant or an officienoy export. Edu­
cation la coming to bo rogurdodi as a 
training in wisdom rathor than a 
sort of force pump of knowlodgo. II. 
is a discipline, a way of living, an 
attitude towards life, and tho meas­
ure of its success or fa lluro la In 
tho character that it producos.
This is tho reason why so much 
time is devotod at our unlvorsltloa to 
activities of an unacademic nature, 
and as opportunity! given to all to en­
ter Into Lho community life afforded 
by social and athletic evonLa. Thoro 
are often moro oE tho character-build­
ing qualities ol’ intolllgenco, pluck 
and sportsmanship to be found on the 
gridiron or in Lho ring than in a 
classroom or lecture hall, and It often 
takes more Industry or ability to ade­
quately) fu I 111 a position of responsi­
bility on tho oxecutlvo of an 
undergraduate oganlmtlon than II. Is 
to swat up and pass a stiff exam. We 
do not moan to infer by this that 
classrooms and professors and exam 
fruition, aro unimportant. But it Is 
not necessary to stress this lmpor 
Lance. Wo are compelled to recog­
nize It whether we want to or notr- 
Lho ono-cight rulo, the nocosslty of 
passing, and the value of that side 
of education. But an eager partici­
pation In tho activities of college 
life is not compulsory. Tho char 
actor-building value of mingling with 
your follows cannot ho recognized by 
rulo and statute, and consequently tho 
student who wants to got the most 
out ol! colloge Ill’o must attend to 
this aide of his education for himself.
There are, of course, fhoso who 
do take part in college activities as 
much as they possibly can; thoro 
aro more who do so to a limited ox- 
tent; hut there are too many mis­
guided wasters who go through col­
lege and get about as much of the 
experience as If they were taking a 
correspondence course or studying 
witli a private tutor.
We wish we could impress tho fact 
upon every student at this univer­
sity that the aim of a college educa­
tion is to build character andi turn 
out men and gentlemen accomplished 
in the art of living.
Be interested in your fellow stu­
dents. Get to know them, make 
friends.
If you are physically fit get into 
some athletic activity—the university 
provided enough to suit everybody- 
and if you’re not fit, get so.
Join some of the many clubs and 
societies, take an active interest in 
them, attend the meetings, and don’t 
be afraid to get up on your feet and 
take part in discussion.
Be proud of your university and 
live to the fullest extent in tho com­
munity life of the college.
This is the greatest way to get 
the greatest benefit from your col­
lege education, and you only get 
what you put into }tj Make the 
most of your opportunities to partici­
pate in the active life ol! tho univer­
sity.
It profits a man little in dollars 
and cents to work for “A” grade» at 
college unless he also possesses the 
ability to "mix” with his follows, 
It I» revealed In statistics collected 
by Adelbort Ford, Instructor In psy* 
chology at tho University of Michi­
gan.
Phi Beta Kappa men have acquir­
ed an average Income of $3,000 a 
year during a tendear period since 
graduation, and those who gained 
prominence In college for their social 
and campus activities have acquired 
Incomes averaging moro than $10,000 
in the same time.
Men of Michigamau, the highest 
campus honorary society, which 
makes its selections for social promi­
nence and activity, now are drawing
The athletic program ror Campus 
Week promises us more entertain­
ment than a three-ring circus does 
a ten-year-old boy. “Russ" Roller 
and • his committee, consisting of 
Dorothy Chalmers, D. A. Sclioerlco, 
T. A. Jones and Ellis Robertson, have 
drawn up a schedule which will keep 
tiie crowd entertained throughout 
The latter part of the week The 
list of events is as follows.
Wednesday Afternoon — Tennis 
match with W. & J. .Baseball game 
with Pitt.
Thursday—Inter fraternity relay.
Friday Morning — Girls’ tenuis 
match.
Friday Aftornoon—Tennis match 
with Pitt. Baseball games with St. 
Bonaventure. Track meet with Pitt. 
(Freshman and Varsity.)
Saturday Afternoon—Alumni tennis 
mitch, Alumni baseball game.
NOTICE TO GOLF CANDÌ- 
DATES
Graduato Manager Buddy • 
Qvorond would like to moot • 
with tho candidates for the • 
Varsity and Freshman golf • 
loams Thursday, March 27, in • 
his office at 4:30, This moot- • 
lag will liavo an important boar- • 
mg, on t.ho golf prospoota for • 
the coming spring and all can- • 
dldntos aro requested to be • 
prosont.
an avorago yearly incoino of moro 
than $10,000.
Mon of! Sphlnz, chosen for practic­
ally tho same accomplish men In, ox- 
hlbltod la a ml noi dogroo, earn 
more than $8,000 annually. All "M” 
athletes earn $11,*100, tho average stu­
dent gets $5,800 a yoar, and tho Phi 
Beta Kappa mon $3,000 a year,
Next In line of Income aro law­
yers, who average $7,500; doctors 
with $«,500, and >t(hoii the merchanta 
with Incomes around tho $5,000 mark. 
Eoarnlng lesa than tho merchants 
aro the oilier professional group's, 
chemists and other sclontlal.s, and 
toachors. Ono Individual admitted 
that with all his college training lw 
was able to earn only $1,200 a year 
an Iron moulder.
Tlioro has been much d'lscusslon 
throughout the country In regard to 
Prohibition. The qostion seems to 
liavo evolved itself into three part»; 
whether there should bo an absolute 
repeal of the amendment, wholhor II. 
Should, bo modified to admit of the 
use of light wines and boor, or 
whether tho amond'mont us It stands 
should bo enforced. Those throo so­
lutions to tho prosont problem woro 
voted on at Harvard and Yale, and 
tho results show that both colleges 
favor a modification to allow tho sale 
and manufacture of boors and wines. 
It is also interesting to note that 
the- enforcement of the amendment 
received Lho second highest number 
of votes, while tho repeal of the 
amendment came in a poor third.
Prof. Maurice R. Davis of Yale, 
speaking of tihe problem p'resentod by 
prohibition, said that the only way 
out of the dilemma Is to vote for 
modification. “Then," ho added, “we 
might have a healthier situation as 
to respect 'for the law.”
One greati obstacle to the enforce­
ment of Prohibition is tho fact that 
we have so many people who are used 
to their daily wine and beer, to whom 
It is no' more or less than water, and 
who cannot understand why they 
should be be deprived of it.
"What’s all this noise about, you 
young rascal?”
“Well, Mary said if I kept on cry­
ing, a great big mouse with big 
green eyes would come and Sit on 
the end of my bed, and I’ve kept on, 
but it hasn’t come yet!”
MEET DEVELOPING
Five Hundred Invitations Sent 
to Schools in Tri-State 
District
The work on this year’s lnter-Scho- 
lastlc track moot, to bo held hero 
May 10, Is progressing rapidly and 
satisfactorily. Formal Invitations to 
participate have already been sent 
»out to all tho high schools in the 
Tri-State district, amounting to ap­
proximately livo hundred schools.
The growing importance of this 
meot makes It of particular interest 
to iCarnogie studeuts this year. Held 
here purely as a benefit to scholastic 
athletics, Carnegie nevertheless de­
rives a certain prestige from it, ow­
ing to its largo scope. Five states 
were represented last year and moro 
are expected this time.
Although over a month away, 
preparations are hoing made now 
for the oiuertaiumont of the school 
boys attending. The majority of this 
will be done by tho fraternities here, 
but all are urged to co-operate in 
making Carnegie attractive to tho 
visiting teams. Much preliminary 
propaganda and publicity can be ef­
fected during tho Easter holidays and 
those with high school friends should 
improve this opportunity.
It was originally) planned to hold 
a separate meet for preparatory 
schools, but as thoro are too few in 
the district to warrant this, only 
high schools will compete. This 
event is the biggest and best point 
of contact between Carnegie Tech 
and tho surrounding schools, and 
theroforo it is again emphasized 
that tho coming meet should bo a 
means of bettering the present amic­
able relations and further advancing 
Lho position of Carnoglo in this dis­
trict. t
SONGS, YELLSv CAMPUS
VIEWS IN SONG BOOK
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
tor, by Ellonlngor; Choor -Song, by F. 
E. Alcdoorfor; Slug t.ho Praises, by 
Wayne Koppos; Hall to Carnoglo, by 
Lonoro Davios; SI McNadd, by T. S. 
ltoppllor and K. T. Mllno; Tocli, Toch, 
Toch, Toch, by Robert Schmortz and 
Adolph Hortzborg; I Lovo An Engl- 
noor, by Francos Burroughs and T. S. 
ltoppllor; Hloroglyphlo Ditty, by Lu­
cillo Flanders and H, N. Mullor; Moon­
light Maid, by ltobort Schmortz and 
Arthur O’Noll; Any Old Place At All, 
by Robert Schmort/, and Gortrudo V. 
Robinson; Wedding Bolls, by Haim 
Mullor and Matthow Frey.
All tho songs In tho book woro eol- 
loclod by A. II. Johnson, while all 
tho editing work of selecting cuts, 
making up tho dummy, reading proof, 
etc., was performed by A. S. Andrews, 
IDstollo Garibaldi, Ellzubolh Gordon* 
and Fred Rossini.
STUDENT8 ARE INVITED
TO MEET WITH Y. P. R. U.
A cordial welcome la oxtomled to 
all Carnegie Toch students who wish 
to «pond a ploasant Sunday evening 
by the Social Unit Chapter of tho Y. 
i’. R. U. (Young Pooplos’ Religious 
Union), located at tho First Unitarian 
Church, corner of Morowood and EIu- 
worth ayenuos. .A uandwloh lunch* 
ecu is served at 0: iJO p. in., which Is 
followed by a short devotional sorvlco 
and nil address by a epoakor, always 
worth hearing.
Romombor, wo are only five min­
utes’ walk from tho campus, at tho 
First Unitarian church, corner of 
Morowood and Elaworth avonuo. Moot­
ings every Sunday ovoulng, sandwich 
luncheon sorvod at 0:30 p. m. A so­
cial hour which la your own misfor­
tune to miss. “Como and bring your 
friends.”
“Have you heard tho latest co-ed 
yell?”
“No, what is it?”
"I’ll let no rival outstrip me.”— 
Cento.
FIRST MAN CHURCH
Corner Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 o’clock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 6:30 So­
cial Unit Tea, followed by an 
interesting program, should J)e 
of interest to students.
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMEN’S WEARj
8815 FORBE8 8TREET 
Next To 8trand Theater422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbea
OPEN EVENING8
FRANK BROTHERS
Avcnuo BootUnlwmut <17ill mid 'Mil! SlronW.Now York
Shoe oatlofactlon means 
'otylo and worth.
WS2
Exhibit Shops in all the larger 
cities.
ABILITY 
The ABILITY of an Innurance 
agent or broker la proven after 
a loon and the result of the looa 
adjuotment la the foundation of 
hla future suceeoc. At thic time 
personality and friendship aro 
forgotten. Skill, knowledge and 
service count.
Put Your Insurance In Safe 
Hands.
JOS. P. FISHER AGENCY 
Established 1886 
PITTSBURGH 
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 25. 1924
¦HfALUMNI PAGE
j . & 
i
•
FORMER STUDENT 
ENTERS POLITICS
H. A. Pulliam is Elected to 
Kentucky Legislature— 
Fights Gambling
It seems that thoro' aro very few 
line» to which an Iflngineer cannot 
turn t'tL hand 1£ he onco nota his mind 
to «lo LlO More 1» ono who In making 
a ereditatolo record an a legislator by 
taking a (stand and holding It agaliiBt 
strong opposition.
Henry A. Pulliam came to Carnoglo 
Tech In 1014 from Mclean College and 
although Bhe cannot claim him as a 
graduato «he lias the stamp of ono 
year’« training on him. He Spent one 
year In Civil Engineering courne.
Ho In now In McCracken County, 
Kentucky, from where ho wont an a 
representative to tho Legislature of 
tho State. Ho has taken a stand 
against tho gambling franchise hold 
toy tho racing gaino of that state.
Pulliam has dealt them a novero 
hlow and has proven himself to be 
courageous, independent, and highly 
capable legislator. Ho has tho back­
ing of a strong group In tho House 
and will probably bo able to make a 
cleanup job of other corrupt prac­
tices along with tho racing game.
Another Graduate is
Victim of Pneumonia
[ DO YOU RECALL? j
When fair rooters at a Plaid foot­
ball game were a novelty? 11)07.
Wlieir a vicious white Dull dog was 
added to the boarders’ lint In the 
Woodlawn cottages? 1908.
When tho present Thistle wan 
adopted an tho Carnegie Yearbook? 
190K.
When Homo ono took a big Ilensno* 
lear banner at a hockey game in Du- 
quosnc Garden? ,1008.
When tho Faculty married men de­
feated the Bachelor Faculty members 
in a baHket ball game 0*2? 1008.
When no many of tho Profs were 
sick with tho grippo that Hoveral 
classes were minnod? 1009.
When tho Homestead cars woro 
called .“The Garlic Express”?
When Hammy sailed for England 
and Wales to ntudy educational con­
ditions in thoHe countrleH? 1908.
Haaren Memorial is 
Still Hoped For
Two Bits Sent to Graduate 
Manager by Many
&forSp ingfY pEEp
FIRpi frrEfRfN&E nF . 
&fRNEGIE pnNG BnnK
DO YOU KNOW? jCARNEGIE GIRL AT 
SALT LAKE CITY T
RUTH PONTIUS NOW AT
BENNET SCHOOL, MILLBROOK
Miss Ruth Pontius, who graduated 
from thé Household Economics' Dopt.' 
of M. M. in 1910, T. now acting as die­
tician at the Bonnet School for Girls 
at Mlllbrook, Now York. Miss Pon­
tius is well fitted for this position, urf 
sho has had some interesting prac­
tical experience since her graduation. 
For two yearn 2T.K Pontius conducted 
the "Magic Shop”, a tea-room in the 
Greenwich Village Quarter of New 
York City.
It is with deep regret that wo note 
tho death of another member of tho 
Sliilliday family, John Sliilliday, at 
his homo 838 Chislett street in Eaijfc 
End on Wednesday, March 3 0. He 
was a Carnoglo graduate of '21, and 
died just one week lator than Ills 
brother, David Sliilliday, who graduat­
ed in 1020.
Both were Tlieta Xi men and both 
spent sovoral years in service during 
the late war.
Thoir deaths resulted from pneu­
monia, making a total of live deaths 
in tho family from this disease during 
tho last few weolcs.
BOOK’S ARRIVAL MARKS
EPOCH FOR CARNEGIE
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
committee was formed, which was to 
oversee tho work of whipping the book 
into slmpo. This committee was com- 
posed of the following
A. S. Andrews, Chairman; Frede­
rick D. Rossini, Estolle Garibaldi, W. 
Winning, Sara Mae Evorott, A. E. 
Krogh.
There woro also appolntod numer­
ous Hub-commlttoos, ouch working to­
wards a dollnlto goal, that of getting 
the song book on tho campus tills 
yea r.
On .Tnnimry 10 a cont ract was mado 
with tho Otto Zimmerman Company 
of Cincinnati, Ohio, to print tho book, 
and nil tho details of making up tho 
/hook wore nil ended to no that tho 
On rn eg I o Hong Book has booomo an 
established fact.
Tho old committee gnthOl’Qd In the 
nuitorlnl, and the now group uttondod 
li> nil the Important details of copy­
rights, printing and distribution. This 
resulted In what both WOi'O striving 
for- the Carnoglo Hong Book.
APRIL FOOL PARTY IN
M. M. NEXT TUESDAY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
fool party will bring students and 
faculty together on a. common level, 
for which there nro too few opportu­
nities.
Notices will soon bo posted on tho 
bulletin boards, and all Margaret Mor­
rison students who expect to attend 
are asked to sign up in order that 
pluns may bo complotod for a capac­
ity crowd.
Tho following committee has 
charge of arrangements for tho affair: 
Fayo TMS Glass, chairman; Grace 
Adams, Miriam Bond, Bernice Rontz, 
Charlotte Drake, Mary Willis, Carol 
Foight.
Attention! Alumni and Students, 
"What’s tho matter?” Aro you bust­
ed or just caroleBB? Wo believe ^that 
you aro suiforing from both and we 
would rathe? think that you woro than 
to think that you weren’t interested in 
helping along a worthy drive such as 
tho Haaren Memorial. Would you 
liosltato to put two bits in an envelope 
and drop it to the graduate manager? 
Not if you have any real memories of 
Carnegie.
A memorial fund where tho limit is 
25 cents and for such a real booster 
as Frank Haaren should bo subscribed 
100 por cent. Everyone wants to bo 
in on it so lot's liavo a 100 per cent 
rosponso from every Clan in existence.
Some of tho Clans liavo come in 
strong but a largo majority have not 
como in at all. If your Clan cannot 
oomo in as a whole Bend in your in­
dividual subscription.
A couple of tho fraternities have re­
sponded as a body but most of tliom 
aro still setting in tho back row. Como 
on out frats; send In your chock as a 
group and liavo your house go on rec­
ord as 100 por conL subscribed.
INDUSTRIES HOLDS
SMOKER TONIGHT
Compliments
or
Sgnbo &nn
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Mombcr Federal Reaorvo 
System.
Cnpltnl......................5300,000.00
Surplua.....................$300,000.00
Dcponlts, Ovor - - - 000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
(Continued From Page Ono.)
Tho Sophomores and Freshmen also 
have stunts which they hope to pre­
sent to a friendly audienco. As Fresh­
men of all schools aro invited to the 
smoker, tho Plebe stunt should llnd a 
cordial roooptlon.
Tho best act In to rocoivo a prize 
that would knock tho oye out of n. 
graven imago. It it valued at nino 
million kronen. UHootionS of tho dlz- 
Kloof, hlondo, the ilattost tire, tho tight­
est wad, and other superlative Individ­
uals In lho College of Industries will 
bo announced nnd oneh of the elect 
will he prosontod with an npproprlat 
momonto.
A feature of tho evening in to be a 
boxing bout botwoon two of tho 
schools mltt-wioldors. They may not 
bn nrtlsts but they do pack a sock. 
The battlers have boon praeticliiK 
glove (dinging In n smoke soroon for 
the past week, nnd therefore they 
will not be nffootod by the density 
of the atmosphere,
And to cap this marvelous, magnifi­
cent monagerio of multl-farloua 
amusements, pntrons nro promised nil 
they want to oat and drink in punch 
and doughnuts. Positively, gentle 
men, it can't bo boat!
Tho committee that lm» mado all 
this possible consists of Jack Foster, 
Al Mel lor, Goorgo Carl, D. K. Mims’, 
Jim Matter, and T. J. Dompsey. You 
may get a tag from anyono of them 
for the phenomenally low price of 
twenty-five cents.
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and S P.M.—Sermons.
10 A.M.—Men’s Bible Class.
4 P.M.—Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.—Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.—Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas­
tor, teaches Men’s Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pltt and 
Tech students for social nnd ro- 
llQloua fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
nupper, every .Sunday evening. 6:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL 
3004 FORBES STREET
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
MASK AND WIG CLUB 
TO GIVE PLAY HERE
The Mask and Wig Club of tho Uni- 
vorslty of Pennsylvania will present a 
modern musical play, "That’s That,” 
at Lhe Schonloy theater April 9 and 
10, acted entirely by undergraduates 
of the university and coached and di­
rected by - graduate members of the 
club.
James II. Prothero, Jr., of Punxsu- 
tawney, will have tho leading part 
this year, that of Harriette Martin. 
Scones of the play are laid at Palm 
Beach. • There will be moj’e than 75 
members in tho cast, and special em­
phasis will be laid on the costumes, 
dancing and glee numbers.
SONG BOOK FEATURES
“RUSTICANNA” AND "SHORT­
AGE OF THE FRESH BANANA”
(Contlnuod From Pago One.) 
him who enjoys It we can only say as 
a moans of advertisement "liere.’s the 
words, you can get tho air outside”.
Near the first of the book will bo 
found an entrancing sonata which was 
immortalized by one of the laborers 
while engaged in what is politely 
known as sewage excavation for the 
now gym. It has a lilting, rollicking 
luiio, which makes ono fairly expec­
torate on his hands, so true to life 
Is the ballad. Here it is
“Horo’s to Carnegie, long may sho 
wavo
We’re busily digging a math prof's 
grave,
Wo’ll sink our. picks in his cranium 
hard,
And throw his bones in his own back­
yard.
We’ll put no stono on tho grave of the 
lout,
Just bury him doop with Ills bond 
sticking out.”
Another mnstorpieco which is so 
good that it must liavo boon stolon 
from somo current buslosnuo show Is 
the fasty llttlo gom offorod bolow. It 
was originally composed as a frater­
nity song bul, tho chapter is at pros- 
ont defunct for obvious reasons.
"She's our hlondo baby 
We don’t moan maybe 
Oh, what a stopper is sho!
From Juno to Docombor 
Sho pets every member 
I'm glad I'm an Iona Knoo.”
Tho root of tho songs nro oqually 
entrancing and not a few are quite 
risque. Every student should own a 
flock of song books, for perhaps tho 
printer mado one of those typographic­
al errors which has boon the making 
of many a lyric and the despair of 
many a D.D. Seniors do your stuff, 
Lhe book will be shocking to a de­
gree.
STAG PARTY PLANNED
FOR SATURDAY NIGHT
Continued From Page One.) 
booked to strut their stuff and last, 
but by no means least, will be talks 
by Mr. I-Iornbostle and Dean Mc- 
Goodwin.
Dave Garber is acting as queen of 
the festivities, and is being assisted 
by Koppes, MacMillian, Douglas and 
Gohering. The scene of activities 
will be the 'Senior Drafting room.
for Spring
A variety of styles for 
the new seazon, plezantly 
fresh and refreshing, 
w i 1 be shown by
D. T. Kirkpatrick at
MARCH 25th 
and APRIL 1st 
SKIBO INN 
FRIDAY, APRIL 4th
CROSS CRICK.
CLUB 
S9
Stores In New York.Brooklyn,Newark 
nnd Philadelphia — Address for Moil 
Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City
Song Book Becomes Reality 
After Years of Fruitless 
Endeavor; Carnegie Tartan 
Instrumental in Success
ALUMNI SALES FIRST
ORIGINAL COPY OF SONGS
TO BE RETURNED WRITERS
The publication of a Carnegie Song 
Book is another link in the chain of 
Carnegie tradition. For many years 
the need has been felt of something 
by which the love and spirit of Qld 
Carnegie could be instilled deeper in­
to the hearts of the students; some­
thing which would always endear Car- 
ifegle to those who have gone forth 
from her walls; and something which 
would help to produce a profound af-1 
fection in those who are coming here 
in search of higher and broader knowl­
edge.
In 1021, the first attempt to com­
pile a 'Song Boole was made., The Stu­
dent Activities Board offered, a prize 
for the best song contributed. This 
was not productive of results, and the 
students who undertook the task were 
disheartened by the lack of interest 
and co-operation expressed by the stu­
dent body. Contributions of songs 
for the book were supposed to have 
been in by February 20, 1921. On 
March 1, 1922, one year later, only 
ten songs were in, and interest in the 
book had practically died. Continual 
appeals were made that year, but 
they secured no response.
Finally, in the latter part of Novem­
ber, 1923, the Carnegie Tartan decid­
ed to foster the publication of a Car­
negie Song Book. This has entailed 
not a little work and worry on the 
part of the staff, but they feel repaid 
in the fact that the book is at las 
here on the campus.
As to the contents of the book—the 
words and music are all tlie composi­
tion of Carnegie men and women. 
Many of tlie songs are familiar. These 
include Lhe Alma Mater, Dear Old 
Tech, Fight for the Glory of Carnegie, 
The Women’s Song, Si McNadd, and 
many others. Original songs from the 
oxtravaganza "Ship Ahoy” produced 
by the Drama Department are also in­
cluded in the book.
The Carnoglo Song Book Commit­
tee decided about three months ago to 
give Alumni first opportunity to so- 
curo copies of tho book. This was 
done because of tho certainty that the 
student campaign which is now under 
way would deplete the stock of one 
thousand copleq which Avas printed,
Now that the combinod efforts of all 
tlioso loyal porsons who have expend­
ed, and are still giving, much time and 
on orgy to this worthy cause, have re- 
sultod in tho appearance on tlie cam­
pus of tho first Carnoglo Song Book, 
tho Carnegie Tartan Blncerely hopos 
that tills book, another contribution 
to Carnoglo Tradition, will fulfill its 
purpose hero on tho campus, and out 
In the world amongst our Alumni.
All original copies of songs loaned 
to the song book committee by the 
writers will be returned immediately 
by mail if the address is sent to either 
Mr. A. H. Johnson or Mr. A. S. An­
drew^, care Carnegie Tartan.
The committee at this time wishes 
to express its sincere appreciation for 
the co-operation shown by the writers 
of the songs submitted.
That the Architects in 1908 were 
well placed in the New York Beaux 
Arts Society exhibition?
That a lecture on International j 
peace was given away back in 1908 by 
Mrs. L. A. Mead to the M. M. C. girls? j
That Tartan ran an article which i 
explained hoW and where you could' 
get your picture taken sitting in a 
real automobile? 1908.
That Professor Follows of Machine 
Design Department had charge ot flie 
Senior play in 1908?
That a song book campaign *was in­
augurated in 1908 to secure more or­
iginal songs and yells?
That the Sophomores now have to 
handle the Plebes gently or they will 
get reported to the discipline commit­
tee?
Graduate Student of Margaret 
Morrison Now Acting as 
¦ Secretary in West
MARRIAGE OF CARNEGIE 
MAN SECRET 4 MONTHS
/ The marriage four months ago of 
Miss Florence Eltinge, daughter of 
Mr. and Mrs. Chas Eltinge of Utica, 
N. Y., to Carl F. Peters of Green­
wich, Conn., was announced recently 
at a dinner given by Mr. Peters at 
Po;rt * Chester. Mrs. i Peters was 
graduated from Simmons College. 
Boston, with the,class of 1920. Mr. 
Peters was graduated in 191G from 
Carnegie.
Research Corporation 
Announces Progress
Unique Clearing House Helps 
Market Inventions
CARNEGIE SONG BOOK
NOW APPEARS CHEERING
ALUMNI’S PASSING YEARS
For tho past fivo weeks the Song 
Book Committoo has used every 
means within its power to givo the 
Alumni a chalice to order a copy of 
the Song Book in advance of the ex­
pected rush of orders from tlie stu­
dents, which will exhaust the supply 
before the week is over. Many Alum­
ni have responded, though not as large 
a percentage as had been hoped for. 
In view of the trouble, and expense on 
tlie part of the committee in regard 
to alumni sales, there is no possibil­
ity left for any complaint of lack of 
opportunity for purchase on the part 
of alumni.
One of the high lights of the past 
week has been the receipts of a let­
ter from an alumnus of the school, 
who, although he has joined the fac­
ulty of his Alma Mater, has not there­
fore ceased to be concerned about the 
welfare of the undergraduates. We 
are referring to Mr. Walter B. Jones 
’19, who is now an instructor in the 
Department of Engineering Drawing 
in Industries.
Mr. Jones wrote us a very interest­
ing letter offering a highly commend­
able plan for promoting the friend­
ship among incoming students and 
upper classmen. The plan is now be­
fore the proper authorities and will 
soon bo acted upon.
We say that this is one of the 
bright lights of the past week, because 
it shows that the alumni of Carnegie 
Is interested in tho school. To be 
sure, Mr. Jonos is hero at tho institu­
tion and thoroforo noce'ssnrily in 
closer touch with affairs than others 
possibly aro, but ho has pointed out 
tho way for other alumni.
We do not intend to advocate a rule 
of tho undergraduates by alumni, but 
wo do wish that wo might bo per­
mitted to profit a little more by the 
experiences of those which have gone 
before. Youth is not always so re­
luctant to profit by tho -experiences 
of otliers as soitie modern writers 
would have us believe.
(Continued From Page One.)
“What is the matter, wifie, wliat 
are you sighing about?” The husband 
appeared to be worried, and he turned 
from ,his work to see what his wife 
was doing.
“Well, I was just thinking about 
Dear Old Tech! When I went to Mar­
garet Morrison, there weren’t any 
whimsical women around the campus, 
and now they get all kinds of pub­
licity. That isn’t all, either, for it 
would appear that they are teaching 
Egyptian over there now—perhaps in 
Arts’ School, J!or they ask a question 
about the I-Ieirogly.phic Ditty. What 
is that about?”
“Say, what are you all reading any­
how?” asked the irate liusband-parent. 
“Everything you say seems vague to 
me! ”
“Why, dear, the Tartan for January 
15 came today, and there is a lot of 
stuff between the columns about va­
rious people and things on the cam­
pus.”
“Let me see!” With this the man 
toolc a Tartan, yellow with age, and 
read exactly what his wife and daugh­
ter were referring to. “Well, I can’t 
make any sense out of all of this!” 
Just listen: ‘In Barcelona an Eskimo 
Baby was singing Love’s Walt/,, that 
old ITeiroglypJiic Ditty, when she was 
suddenly interrupted by a call, "Ship 
Ahoy!” As she turned several whim­
sical women passed. She called to 
them, asking whither they might be 
going, and they replied in search of 
tho Moonlight Maid. They further 
stated that this person was In Love 
With An Engineer, and they were ex­
pecting to hear Wedding Bells very 
shortly.’ ”
Doad silence reigned for a few mo­
ments, and then, quick as a flash 
Gwendolyne shouted: “Look, father,
thoro Is going to be a Song Book!”
“What!'" exclaimed Mother and 
Father in one voice, “can it be possi­
ble?”
YES! It can be possible, and the 
little moral of this story (?) is that 
it IS possible, and it will 110 longer be 
necessary for Alumni and Alumnae to 
raise their children in ignorance of 
tlie songs of their Alma Grand mater! 
Now, in place of “Rock-a-bye Baby’ 
the children may sing “The Kilties 
and Cornin’,” and instead of “Three 
Blind Mice” they may chant the 
strains of the New Alma Mater, and 
may sing with glee the choruses from 
“Ship Alioy” and that famous song, in 
which they may please “daddy”—“I 
Love an Engineer.”
Quite Different.
Many a man who walks miles to 
reach the eighteenth hole had a grand­
father who covered the same distance 
troing to a country church.
Exhibition Night Will Be Held at the 
School on April 26th.
Perhaps some friend might like to 
be taken through the halls of Car­
negie. when the great plant is going 
at full blast. Think it over. Then 
keep the date open, and act.
17 leads—all deafer
EiÄbO
lAe master drawing pencil'
Dr. Arthur A: Hamerschlag, presi­
dent emeritus of Carnegie, announc­
ed in New York recently that the 
Research Corporation of which he! 
is now president had weathered its 
years of experimentation since its es­
tablishment under the aegis of the 
Smithsonian Institution and serves 
today as the connecting link between 
inventors, the government and man­
ufacturers.
Dr. Hamerschlag’s statement, made 
shortly after a meeting^ of the board 
of directors at which' a grant of 
$5,000 was made to the Smithsonian 
Institution for special research : pur­
poses, revealed just how the Research 
Corporation came to be created and 
how it works.
“Twelve years ago,” lie said, “Dr. 
Frederick G. Cottrell, Director of the 
Fixed Nitrogen Research Laboratory, 
who at that time was Professor of 
Chemistry in the University of Cal­
ifornia, conceived the idea of a 
quasi-public corporation organized for 
the purpose of encouraging inventors 
and introducing their patents with 
the hope that, in time, the organiza­
tion would become self-sustaining by 
receiving a share of the royalties on 
patents and would use surplus earn­
ings to make ‘discovery the mother 
of new inventions.’
“For a number of years this cor­
poration which took over the Cottrell 
patents for electrical precipitation 
has been functioning under the 
watchul eye of the Smithsonian In­
stitution because the Cottrell patents 
and his idea were first presented to 
Smithsonian. This institution, how­
ever, under its charter from the gov­
ernment could not carry out entirely 
the work suggested by Dr. Cottrell 
nnd as a result the Research Cor­
poration was founded.
“At the end of a successful year 
the Research Corporation has 
demonstrated that Cottrell’s idea was 
fundamentally sound; since it is act­
ually taking revenue from these in­
ventions that have been successfully 
commercialized lo. help other inven­
tors to get a ' hearing from the in­
dustries that can utilize their inven­
tions. This work of discovering, 
helping and conserving American 
inventive genius is without parallel. 
It is an experiment in social econom­
ics and business which promises re­
sults of far-reaching importance.
“Men come to the Research Cor­
poration with innumerable so-called 
patents. Hundreds must be discour­
aged because they onljn rediscover 
old devices. Others contemplate new 
uses for old inventions. But every 
now and then some startling, unex­
pected invention ds discovered. In 
a singlo year we have uncovered a 
marvelous calculating machine that 
can compute algebraically; a printing 
machine that dispenses with type, 
electrotypes and half-tones, and in­
stead of printing from a design
Miss Stella Kellogg of Cheyenne, 
Wyo., who graduated from the Uni­
versity of Wyoming, and afterwards 
did graduate work at Carnegie Tech, 
has recently accepted the position of 
employment secretary on the Y. W. 
C. A. staff in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Miss Kellogg is filling the position 
formerly held by Mrs. R. P. Reese, 
and her training at Carnegie has 
fitted her lor tlie executive work of 
this department. The employment 
department of the Salt Lake City 
chapter of the Y. W. C. A. is a very 
active body1.
The office department takes care 
of the many requests or information 
about the various activities of the 
association as well as all kinds of 
general information concerning civic 
and community interests. Friendli-* 
ness, the keynote of the Young 
Women’s Christian Association, of­
ten first finds expression in this de­
partment, where many of the initial 
contacts are made.
During 1923 there were ‘1,535 appli­
cations for help in finding positions, 
and of that number 1,216 wrero placed. 
The 2,679 requests from employers 
indicates the co-operation shown, 
and the two-fold service to employer 
and employe.
t'LlOf'f, FOIRfS
$15.00 and $25.00 
TMAA'NC H'OU,u CrMt
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
which carries the .ink, prints more 
rapidly and better from a pattern 
which never comes in contact with 
the ink.
“We are on the threshold of an 
era of changes in the great field of 
metallurgy. Steel has ruled king 
of industry. Its position is being 
threatened by .those who have been 
pioneering in the fields of the alloys. 
The inventor who can produce a new 
metal with the strength of steel, 
non-corrosive lighter in weight, is 
already on the horizon.
“Thus this unique ‘clearing house' 
has began to function in the public 
interest and offers a marvelous op:- 
portunity for tho inventor who is a 
pioneer and needs a business organ­
ization to safeguard his interests 
and to bring his patents into com­
mercial use.
“The corporation at its recent an­
nual meeting voted a grant of $5,000 
to this Smithsonian Institution for 
special research purposes. Thus the 
child of this great governmental in­
stitution is in a position not alone 
to act as a ‘clearing house’ for in­
ventors but to aid its parent as 
well.”
CLAN NEWS
The third monthly get-together 
meeting of the I-Iartl'ord members of 
4he Connecticut Clan was held Wed­
nesday evening, March 12‘, 1924, at 
The Hub. President R. W. Arnold 
presided. A committee consisting of 
Wm. H. Harrington, C. L. Ruther­
ford and D. A. Menser was appoint­
ed to arrange a publicity program to 
be presented to the high school stu­
dents of Hartford.
D. A. Nemser was designated to 
act as secretary for the Hartford di­
vision of the Clan. After an even­
ing of fun-making the gang broke 
up with the rendition of a short 
speller. The following men attend­
ed: J. Gelman, N. Tremonte, C. E.
Rutherford, A. L. Levin, L>H. Hale, 
R. J. Solomon, Wm. H. Harrington, 
A. S. Nelson, L. C. Fogg, K. W. Fin­
lay, C. E. Rowley, R.VW. Arnold, A. 
R. Weigold and D. A. Nemser.
Nerve.
Nerve is that which enables a man 
seated in a street car to flirt with a 
wnni.-in who is standing.
You have tried the REST 
Now try the BEST.
Come to the
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
THE constant 
smoker finds 
in Melachrino 
Cigarettes a deli­
cacy of flavor of 
which he never 
tires.
ORIGINAL
MELACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over'**
