<»TheCarnegie Tech Tartan
Volume 64 — Number 6Wednesday, October 21, 1964
tQueen Opens Festival;
Lettermen Give Concert
by Candy Etkin and Liz Seley
Fall Festival 1964 began with t he coronation of the 
Homecoming Queen and a concert given by the Lettermen 
Friday, October 16 in the gymnasium.*-----------------------------------
Jim Levy, master of ceremonies 
'for the evening, introduced the 
three finalists and their dates—
Gretchen Efler and Nick Carter,
Sydney Rome and Jerry Ronkin,
FrarT Ross and Paul Greco. Then 
Jim announced that Fran Ross 
had been chosen queen. Sherry 
Rossman, 1963 Fall Festival 
Queen, presented Fran with the November 1. 
crown. Fran spoke briefly thank- * 
ing every one for this honor and program
officially opened Fall Festival being co-sponsored by the In-
1^64. I ternational Club of Carnegie
In an interview, Fran told re- Tech and the Cosmopolitan 
porters that she found running! Club of Duquesne. 
for queen, “a valuable experi-ence,” because she had met so Albert Burke will discuss
many people in so short a time. I Education For What?” in the Pitt 
Everyone had been hospitable'^1 Union Ballroom, Friday,
and congenial. Fran lives in Great! er at noon. At 7:30
International 
Week Begins
International Week is Fri­
day, October 23 to Sunday,
of activities is
* Driving Of Golden Spire" 
Takes Top H’eoming Award
Neck, Long Island. She is a psy_j p m. and 9:30 p.m. Friday, the
chology major, and hopes to work | movie Mondo Cane will be shown
<1
with children after graduation.
Fran commented, “I was 
really surprised when I found 
out my picture was in the Pitts- 
burgh Press, bigger than 
Khrushchev’s.”
in Clapp Hall Auditorium at Pitt.
New Names 
Given Bitigs
Three academic buildings 
of Carnegie Tech have been 
renamed to honor past presi­
dents of the school.
In memory of Arthur A. Ham- 
erschlag, Machinery Hall has been 
renamed Hamerschlag Hall. The 
name of the undergraduate men’s 
residence hall will now be Ham­
erschlag House.
Engineering Hall has been 
changed to Doherty Hall, com­
memorating Robert E. Doherty, 
president from 1936 to 1950. Ad­
ministration Hall has been re­
named Baker Hall after Thamos
Tartan Photo by Jim NicKoU
Tau Delta Phi’s Winning Display
Saturday, October 24 at 8 p.m. j E. Baker who served from 1923 to
the movies “Life in an Indian 
Village” and “Power Among Men” 
will be shown at Duquesne Uni­
versity Campus Theater to cele­
brate United Nations Day. Admis­
sion will be free.The evening continued as Rich­
ard Elkman introduced the Let­
termen. After making several ad­
justments with the microphones, 
the Lettermen began their con­
cert. The performance lasted an 
(Ounexpected 2\-> hours as opposed Goldwater rally October 29 at 5 
to the scheduled hour and one- ! P-m- The Tuesday visit will be
3 935.Ford Grant
Of $400,000
To acquaint international stu­
dents with American politics visits 
are being arranged to the Johnson 
rally October 27 at 5 p.m. and the
Panhel Float
Catches Fire Goes To GSIA
half.
Their program included a 
sampling of music ranging from 
folk songs to popular hits. They 
also performed several medleys 
based on imitations of national 
and international singing groups.
Th Sarah Lawrence 
Prof To Speak
by Carol S. Guber
Helen Lynd, Professor at 
Sarah Lawrence College, will 
speak in Breed Hall today at 
3:30 on “The Process of Self- 
^ Discovery.”
Open to all interested students 
and faculty, the lecture is part of 
the Senior Honors Seminar Pro­
gram of Margaret Morrison.
Helen Lynd has taught at Sarah 
Lawrence for more than 30 years. 
She is the co-author of Middle 
Town and Middle Town in Tran­
sition and author of Shame and 
Sense of Ideals.
preceded by a panel discussion at 
Carnegie Tech at Skibo on “A 
Preview of Politics in Action.” 
Reservations must be made in ad­
vance. Transportation will be ar­
ranged to the Civic Arena.
Professor Hans Morgenthau will 
speak on “Delemmas of American 
Foreign Policy” in the Pitt Stu­
dent Union Ballroom October 28 
at 12 noon.»
An International Harvest Fes­
tival will be held in the Pitt Stu­
dent Union Ballroom from 8:30 
p.m. to 1 a.m. October 30. Music 
entertainment, dancing, and re­
freshments will be provided. Ad­
mission will be 50 cents.
The Pittsburgh Council for In­
ternational Visitors will have a 
reception for all international vis­
itors to Pittsburgh in Skibo ball­
room November 1 from 2 p.m. to 
4 p.m.
During the week competitions 
in soccer, chess, and bridge among 
international students wil also be 
arranged.
Further information may be ob­
tained from: Umid Nejib, Carnegie 
Tech Internation Club, 682-6847.
The Panhel Queen Float 
caught fire on Friday morn­
ing at about 1:30 a.m.
The float was being assem-
by Howard Weiss
by Carol S. Guber
Carnegie Tech honorary socie­
ties called for new membership 
and Homecoming display awards 
were presented last Saturday 
night at the Homecoming Dance.
Pi Delta Epsilon called Jay 
Bradbury, Tom Clements, John 
A $400,000 Ford Founda- Leiberman, Jim Nichol, Marty
tion grant was awarded to the oring, Elissa Parker, and Ann 
Graduate School of Industrial gmjth fr0m the Thistle; Eric Feld- 
_,T______....________„ _ Administration for a five year mann Evan Melhado? Beverly
bled behind C-tower of More- s^u ^ in t e e o manage phiiofsky, Marylu Recco, and Vir-ment operations. ginia Sa|ko from the Tirtan; Car[
According to Richard M. Cyert, BaU Curt chandIer and Janet 
dean of GSIA, the project will be i T,r , , T
divided into three phases for Wurmb from the Carnegie Tech- 
study.: management information nical; and John Hain, Joe Hupcey, 
systems, marketing, and research- John Lesley, and Lee Ringler from 
development. IWRCT.
Members irf the faculty special- izing in these areas, including Mortar Board Scho astlc
Professors Igor Ansoff, Alfred A. j Awards went to the girl with the 
Kuehn, and John U. Farley, will highest scholastic average in each 
take part in the program. ; ciass The girls were Christine
Dean Cyert explained, ‘ Our wick from last year’s freshman 
project will jncompass; ‘hejntae | ^ c>r0, Aldrich from las,
year’s sophomore class and Kath­
leen Morris, from last year’s
wood Gardens when a ciga­
rette ignited two of the pa­
per and mesh sections.
Two Morewood residents, Alice 
Elliot and Beverly Phiiofsky, used 
four fire extenguishei's to put out 
the blaze. While manipulating the 
extinguishers they saturated sev­
eral nearby Security Officers and 
a section of Morewood lobby ceil­
ing.
A hook and ladder truck wras picture of decision-making in bus-
sent by the Pittsburgh Fire De­
partment to put out the blaze.
Sorority gii'ls rebuilt the dam­
aged sections of float in time for 
the Saturday afternoon Queen 
presentation.
iness and the new concepts in­
volving management practices. 
GSIA is particularly geared to 
handle this study since it pio­
neered in research that has revo­
lutionized management practices
Mock Elections Today
A mock election, sponsored today by Student Con­
gress, will give Carnegie Tech students an opportunity to 
----------------------------------------------?choose between the two pres-
Pick Up Library Cards
Hunt Library cards for the 
academic year 1964-65 will be dis- 
4.* tributed on October 28 and 29 at 
a special desk in the first floor 
lobby. The desk will be open from 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
After the distribution dates, 
day undergraduate and graduate 
I.D. cards and old library cards 
will not be honored. Evening stu­
dents will be permitted to uee I.D. 
cards.
idential candidates.
Ballots are being collected be­
tween 12:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. 
today in booths located at En­
gineering Hall and Skibo.
All undergraduate day students 
are eligible to vote; ID cards must 
be presented.
Votes wilt be counted by the 
Elections Commltee and results 
will be printed in next week’s 
Tartan.
Women Elect Pres
Paula Samuelson, junior psy­
chology major, was elected presi- ; 
dent of Women’s Dorm Council by 
residents of Morewood Gardens, j 
Barbara Brown, junior biology ' 
major, and Jean Melaney, junior . 
P & D, were elected first and sec- | 
ond vice presidents, respectively. !
and expanded basic knowledge of obtained 
management processes.” semester.
junior class.
The Council of Fraternity Pres­
idents’ High Scholastic trophy was 
presented to Pi Kappa Alpha, who
a 2.46 average last
Heads Meet
There will be a meeting 
of Student Congress Com­
mittee Heads today in Room 
33, Skibo at 4:30 p.m.
The Homecoming displays 
Awards were presented by Home­
coming Queen Fran Ross to Tau 
Delta Phi, first place, for “The 
Driving of the Golden Spike," 
Beta Theta Pi, second place, for 
“Wagon Wheel Smith,” and Delta 
Upsilon, who received third place 
; for “Joe Magarac.”
MOCK PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
BALLOT
Johnson
Humphrey
Goldwater
Miller

---------------------------------------------------

FORBES at SHADYFORVM
WALNUT STREET A 
MU. 2-1901
Faffe 2 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, October 21, 1964
Tech Scores 
In Halftime
j death of pipe director Lew David­
son last spring. Pipe major Riley 
played a solo lament. The show 
was ended with the playing of the 
Alma Mater.
Alumni Receive Awards
Twelve Carnegie Tech Alumni 
received special awards at an An­
nual Alumni Awards Banquet at 
Homecoming weekend.
The twelve are being cited by 
for Alumni Federation of Carne­
gie Tech for their loyalty to their 
alma mater and achievement in 
their respective fields.
For Sale — used Harley Davidson scoot­er. Call 731-9902 for details.Ride Wanted — Westview, to and from Tech. Phone 931-3310.
Typing
5312.Aviators Wanted — Military Pilot Back­
ground Rank LCDR (Major) or below. 
Associate and fly with a Naval Re- 
serve Squardron based in Norfolk, Va.; 
Air transportation provided. Excellent 
extra income. Investigate the weekend 
warriors. Call Lt. Bruce H. Wyma. 
Phone 371-7294; or Cdr. J. R. Rohleder, Phone 264-2752.
by Bruce Gelin
Two marching bands and 
the presentation of the Home­
coming Queen and her at­
tendants were the highlights 
of the halftime show.
Festivities for the Homecoming 
football game Saturday were 
opened by the Grove City Band 
which presented “A Tribute to 
Sousa,” featuring a medley of 
the composer's music.
The Kiltie Band dedicated its 
portion of the show to the home­
coming queen, showing the vari-J 
ous modes of transportation she 
used during her lifetime. Starting 
with a baby carriage (music: 
Pretty Baby), the queen-to-be 
progressed to roller skates (Kids), 
and finally to a convertible 
(Merry Oldsmobile).
The Panhellenic Council float 
was driven onto the field, pre­
senting the queen and her two at­
tendants as the Kiltie Band 
played “A Pretty Girl Is Like a 
Melody.” The music for the four 
songs was arranged by Eddie 
Madden, who has done all the 
special arrangements for the band 
presentations this year.
As a finale to the halftime, the 
band formed the traditional CIT. 
Dr. Richard E. Strange, director 
of the band, felt that this would 
be an appropriate time to express 
Carnegie Tech’s sorrow over the
Free Symphony Tickets
Eight thousand free tickets are 
available for the Welcome Home 
Concert of the Pittsburgh Sym­
phony Orchestra. The concert will 
be held at the Civic Arena, Mon­
day, November 2, at 8:30 p.m.
Students may obtain two free 
tickets by sending a self-addressed 
stamped envelope to Pittsburgh 
Symphony Welcome Home Con­
cert, Box 2221, Pittsburgh, Pa., 
15230.
Wanted — Two male Graduate Stu 
dents to share 5 room apt. with 2 en­
gineering students, near Forbes anc Craig. 281-1947.
Woman Desires Typingat home; ex-
Charles Dickens' Immortal Classic3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
Starring JEAN SIMMONS 
and JOHN MILLS
’A perfect Motion Picture" . . . N.Y. Times
Arb Society
207 OAKLAND AVE.
(Below Forbes St.)
B \T\ If desired call ^IJ= For Appointment 682-8510Specializing in
• RAZOR CUT • FLAT TOP
• IVY LEAGUE • CREW CUT 
Completely Modern and Air-Conditioned
Campus - Favored
WALLY'S
MEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
u. s
3612 Forbes Ave,
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOESUniwrsitg #bop
TRADITIONAL CLOTHING 
AND ACCESSORIES 
SERVING CARNEGIE TECH
(Across from Strand Theater)
FURNITURE -10% Off Af CHASE'S3939 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh 13 683-6757
Open Thurs. 9:30 to 9 p.m. Other Days 10:00 to 6:00
40% Off Bedrooms, Dinettes, and Livingrooms. 
These are shown at factory warehouse displays 
and are available for immediate delivery.
NEW 9 x 12 RUGS-$15 to *59
None higher . . . Other sizes . . . 
100 of these rugs may be seen ... at
5432 WALNUT STREET
(next to Shadyside Post Office
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily . . . Until 5 p.m. Saturday. 
Inquiry about furniture may be made at Rug Showroom 
above. The furniture displays are nearby . . . 621-1025
•*eoe* eotA" <»F allest <i vFF1964l 9e<b4 g16
WHICH lOCKTfPY ONLY THI mOOUOT Of THt COOA-OOLA COMPANY.
? V? Ph- 421-6400
and their new loves IOne Of TheHOTTER ITopics Of 1 | Our Time | I ...Now i [ Scorches The Screen!
Game goes better refreshed. 
And Coca-Cola gives you that big, bold taste, 
Always just right, 
never too sweet... refreshes best.
things gObetter
tiM9 
ArbS fin bSoBIKES PRICED 
TO MOVE
• Tfie New r'orM&r
ONEPDRia
flWWBflff]Civic Center 
Hona Inc.
MU. 1-9935 
4519 CENTRE AVE.
(AT CRAIG)
FREE — Isle of Mann 
Motorbike Race Movie 
8;30 P.M. Sat.
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company byi
QJ AKEK STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 21, 1964 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Paffe I
SANDY’S-Americcfs Fastest growing Chain of Quick-Serve Family restaurants, invites all High School and College 
girls of this area to enter an exciting contest to discover “M*SS SANDY OF 1965.” To enter, all you do is fill out 
the coupon below, or pick up an additional coupon at one of the SANDY’S listed below. Send it or bring it with 
a recent photograph of yourself to the nearest SANDY’S. A distinguished panel of Judges (Bob Prince, well-known 
sportscaster, Rege Cordic, KDKA Radio personality; Pat Kiely, TV talent; Harry Wharton, photographer, and Alan 
Baime, director of the Earl Wheeler School) will select 10 semi-finalists from all the photographs entered.
Semi-Finalists will receive a beautiful Miss Sandy sweater, and be 
given an enlarged photograph of herself taken by the Harry 
Wharton Studios.
Photographs of all 10 Semi-Finalists will be placed at each 
SANDY’S. The public will be invited to vote for the girl of their 
choice. The School girl who receives the greatest number of pop­
ular votes—becomes MISS SANDY OF 1965.
PRIZE
For the winner and her mother or 
chaperone) 3 fabulous, fun-filled days 
at the New York WORLD'S FAIR. 
Includes round-trip plane fare, ac­
comodations for two at the Waldorf 
Astoria, all meals, expense money, 
etc. Here’s your chance to enjoy the 
most exciting city in the world—as a 
guest of SANDY’S.
wm TTK1E3E PAimdNBIS jPHDIES
PRIZE
Here’s the chance every 
girl dreams about —a 
two-and-a-half month’s 
Charm Course at the fa­
mous Earl Wheeler Fin­
ishing School. Includes 
instruction in poise, 
charm, beauty, make-up, 
grooming and person­
ality development.
PRIZE
A full-color photograph of the 3rd. 
Prize Winner (valued at $75.00) 
taken by Mr. Harry Wharton, fa­
mous photographer of beautiful 
women.
.1
NAME.
co ESTT
>Aiirnnh and entrv form as a contest- *
'€n-~r
r~.
I enclose my photograph and entry form as a contest 
ant in the 1965 Miss Sandy Contest.
Send to your nearest SANDY’S Listed ------------------>
AGE.
ADDRESS. 
CITY._____
SCHOOL.
(Decisions of the Judges will be final) Photographs submitted to the Miss 
Sandy Contest cannot be returned, and become the property of SANDY’S 
of Penna., Inc.
ALL ENTRIES MUST BE IN BY WEO. NOV. 4
America's Fastest Growing Quick-Serve Family Restaurant" 
Now At These Three Pittsburgh Locations
WILKINSBURG
Penn & Braddock
MOON TOWNSHIPBADEN
Nor&*n!*U0hta Shopp!jg^C*at*r 800 Ft from Greater Pgh. Airport
ili
'V*'
'V1'
S'
S'
is;
'V*
Vv>*'V* 
k V'k v»< 
* v"
kwtwk V**
11V1* 
'V*
is:
%
'V*'> v>'
< v>< *v»'
'V*'*'V*
%%
' v>’
n»wn* Vs*
‘V** V’
' v>’ ‘V'
:|i
* v>'
‘ v>*ili (Vi1 
% ‘ v»'
'V**
'V*'
' V*' »v>< 'V'
vV**
:s:
%i'Ni
is:%
%%II
I I

---------------------------------------------------

P**« * — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, October W, 1964
Guest Editoriot
Break The Tradition
What is so wrong with Tech that it cannot obtain a 
name performer like Ray Charles, The Smothers Brothers 
or The Chad Mitchell Trio for our big campus weekends? 
Why, when we are financially and academically compared 
to Penn, Harvard, and M.I.T. do we fall short on big 
weekends? Why is our entertainment, the focus point of a 
college weekend, no more than a compromise?
The Administration is deeply concerned with the 
apathy on campus, particularly in the men’s dorms. Why 
is nothing being done, then, by the Administration to en­
courage and increase participation and interest in school 
activities? One step would be the improvement of our big 
campus weekends.
The Administration supports our athletic teams and 
these teams are comprised of only a limited number of 
students. The administration cannot, then, be expected to 
support big weekends, an endeavor involving a potentially 
huge percentage of the student body. Must we be forced 
to accept this logic?
Every big weekend is an attempt to work within a 
traditional structure with traditional financial constants. In 
1959 our tuition was $800. That year close to $3,000 was 
delegated for Big Weekend Entertainment per semester. 
Five years and many tuition raises later, we are still work­
ing within an out-dated $3,000 budget. A successful week­
end means a break down of unreasonable financial limita­
tions.
We propose, then, that an Activities Fee of $3 be paid 
each semester by each student at registration.
Spring Carnival is May 6, 7, 8. A $3 fee at spring reg­
istration would provide a $9,000 budget for the weekend 
entertainment. The money could also be used to finance 
dances in the dorms, open the fraternity houses to the 
campus, and create for the first time an All-Campus week­
end. A student I. D. card would act as the ticket of ad­
mission to Friday night concerts, and weekend dances and 
parties. Would this not be a start to solving our campus 
apathy problem?
The Activities Fee could be broadened to cover other 
areas of campus activity, and actually become a cultural 
ticket. We could afford to bring in outstanding speakers 
and artists during the year, in addition to the benefits de­
rived on Big Weekends.
Unfortunately, we have to be realistic. The Adminis­
tration could not act on this immediately, in fact, it would 
probably take a few years before the Administration could 
get through the red-tape “necessary” to discuss this pro­
posal.
Already, Peter, Paul and Mary, Bob Dylan, the Lime- 
lighters, and The New Christy Minstrels are booked at 
other colleges. However, if acted upon immendiately, our 
Friday night concert could consist of either Ray Charles, 
Chad Mitchell Trio, or the Smothers Brothers. Friday af­
ternoon, in addition to the other events we could afford a 
block party with either Bo Diddley, Hank Ballard and the 
Midnighters or The Coasters and their band. Saturday eve­
ning we would have two top named local bands with val­
uable door prizes. This weekend would cost $10 per couple.
We are only able to do this with your support. If we 
are not able to increase our budget, the entertainment for 
Spring Carnival will consist of the Journeymen or the 
Highwaymen.
Let’s break the conservative tradition and support a 
Spring Carnival worthy of Tech’s reputation. Contact Rich 
Elkman, Spring Carnival Chairman, through campus mail 
or at 682-8158, to let him know if you will stand behind 
something that would deny for once our pathetic com­
placency. Richard Elkman
Elissa Parker
deader A 'l/Uriie
Writer Refutes 
Type of Argument
Editor, the Tartan:
The Carnegie Tech Tartan
Editor-In-Chief .......................................................................Nancy Cameron
Executive Editor ............................................................................Richard Elder
Business Manager .........................................................................Eric Feldmann
Desk Editor ....................................................................................Dale Chodorow
News Editor ...........................................................................Evan Melhado
Assistant News Editor ...............................................................Sue Attinson
Sports Editor ......................................................................William Hartlep
Photography Editor ............................................................Martin Shenker
Layout Editor ............................................................................Bev Philofsky
Copy Editor  .................................. ...................................Claire Dzatko
Advertising Manager..............................................................Richard Sextro
National Advertising Manager ............................................Virginia Salko
Secretarial Editor ....................................................................Marylu Recco
Circulation Editor ....................................................................Tom Johnson
Advisory Board — Marcia Avner
Secretarial Staff — Linda Ames, Judith Birkin. Jane Crout, Christy Dinwiddle, 
Lesley France, Marcia Grata, Fran Harkins. Pat Hartman, Marlene Kostek, Jan 
Senchak, Mary Stoll, Gail Whiteman.
Copy Staff — Nancy Barron, Helen Beatty, Ed Cheely, Linda Ferris, Elaine 
Katsilas, Pam Merrill, Sharon Rambo, Verna Ream, Paulette Zdrojkowski. 
Circulation Staff — Pam Reducha, Ruth Steiger, Lynn Sterman, Marina Straeb.
Leta Rubin, Marty Klein.
BismfM Staff — Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Rick Prado, Carol Joffe 
Layout Staff — David Klein, Mark Labovitz, Ted Pierce, Martin Shenkar, Dave 
Howarth
Sports Staff — Ron Bidula. Chris Macosko, Scott McCormick, A1 Rosen, A1 Green 
Annual Sut>scription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
After reading a most scathing 
indictment of Senator Barry Gold- 
water by Mr. Isaac Levy in your 
October 14th issue, I feel com­
pelled, as I am sure many others 
are, to write an answer to Mr. 
Levy’s letter.
I would like to state in the be­
ginning that this is not a defense 
of Mr. Goldwater as such, but 
more, a comment on the type of 
argument that is being used to 
sway peoples opinion in our coun­
try today.
Every man, woman, and child 
in this country should under­
stand one thing: The communist 
movement in this world today is 
dedicated to the proposition that 
communism and its Godless 
state, will one day rule the 
world, and will attain this end 
by any means. Lying, cheating, 
bribery, murder: all of these 
ends justify world communism. 
Let us make no mistake about 
this. Subversion and infiltration 
into our society by these God­
less men, to spread their prop­
aganda, degrade the American 
heritage, and completely remold 
the public opinion of long held 
cherished tradition, is but an­
other rule in the communist 
game.
Mr. Levy has given us, either 
with great purpose, or with very 
shallow thinking, an excellent ex­
ample of how to smear a man and 
not state one relevant fact.
In the beginning of his letter, 
Mr. Levy Would have us believe 
that certain men in the Republican 
party are more or less hypocrites 
for backing Senator Goldwater 
after his nomination in July. Prior 
to his nomination, Governor 
Scranton, Governor Rockefeller, 
Governor Romney, and others 
from the moderate wing of the 
party, indicated Goldwater for his 
beliefs. After the nomination these 
“leaders” seemingly jumped on his 
bandwagon.
I have my doubts as to the 
validity of this, but of real im­
portance here is that Mr. Levy 
has shifted the moderate leaders 
hypocrisy to Senator Goldwater.
I think it should be remem­
bered, here and now, that Sen­
ator Goldwater made it clear 
from the beginning that he was 
not going to compromise with 
the moderates. Wall Street was 
out. Mr. Levy heaped other’s 
shortcomings on Senator Gold­
water. Very neat indeed.
Secondly, we find Mr. Levy 
linking Senator Goldwater’s name 
with the Klu Klux Klan. By fact? 
Yes! But let’s look at the fact. Mr. 
Dean Burch, Republican National 
chairman, appeared on T.V. and 
said that Senator Goldwater would 
accept Klu Klux Klan or any other 
votes. When askea about this, 
Senator Goldwater did not dis­
avow the statement. Mr. Levy is 
having us believe that all Klu 
Klux Klan members are going to 
be embraced and given prime ap­
pointments in the Federal Govern­
ment.
I put it to you that President 
Johnson, Senator Goldwater, 
every Congressman, every Sen­
ator, every man running for 
public office in this land, is duly 
elected by every legally regist­
ered voter. It is a complete ab­
surdity to assume whose vote 
was cast for a particular can­
didate. President Johnson has 
no reasons for declining the vote 
of a Klan member if one votes 
for him. Mr. Levy gave us fact, 
but he led us to some dangerous 
conclusions, the most false of 
which were the ones that we 
were to write in ourselves.
Next, we find Mr. Levy giving 
us a touch of nostalgia as he teams 
up Senator Goldwater and Hitler, 
By fact? This time, no! Mr. Levy 
says, “Does it mean that to be a 
good Republican one must follow 
the party even if a man like Hitler 
is nominated?”
Certainly not! Senator Gold­
water is no more a Hitler than 
Johnson, Kennedy, Taft, or Roose­
velt. There are no facts here, Mr.
This Week In Pittsburgho
by Michael W. Vargo
Drama
“Heartbreak House,” nightly at 8:30 p.m., tomorrow 
night through October 31, College of Fine Arts.
Exhibits
Graphic design by Herbrick and Held, weekdays 9 
a.m. to 9 p.m., and Saturday 9 a.m. to noon through 
October 30, Porter Garnett Gallery, Administration, v 
Hall. 1
Meetings
" Emerson Club, speech: “The Psychology of Marriage” 
by Joseph Smwiski, October 25, 7 p.m., Unitarian 
Church, Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues.
*Lutheran Supper Forum Meeting, speech: “National 
Goals: A Conservative Viewpoint” by David Fawcett, 
tonight, 6 p.m., Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Avenue.
Pitkin-Teknon Club, tonight, 5 p.m., Shadyside Pres­
byterian Church, Amberson Avenue and Westmin- 
ster Place.
Movies
*Friday Cine Series, “Bicycle Thief,” October 23, 8 and 
10 p.m., Porter Hall 100.
*Film Arts Society, “Great Expectations,” tomorrow, 4:30, 
7:00, and 9:30 p.m., Porter Hall 100.
Music
Carnegie Concert Series, piano recital by Ralph Zitter- 
bart, tonight, 8:30 p.m., Carnegie Institute Lecture 
Hall.
*National Youth Symphony of Israel, tonight, 8:30 p.m., 
Civic Arena. (Student tickets at Pitt Book Center.) 
*Little Orchestra of New York, October 23, 8:30 p.m., 
Carnegie Institute Music Hall.
Free organ recital by Marshall Bid well, October 25,
3 p.m., Carnegie Institute Music Hall.
(*) Admission charged.
Editorial
Homecoming
Homecoming proved to be only a partial success for 
the hard-working Homecoming Committee. Their efforts 
were somewhat negated by the usual low budget, the Ad­
ministration passivity, and an unusual number of techni­
cal problems.
The Lettermen’s Concert was hindered by their late­
ness and the resulting microphone and lighting problems. 
After finally wrestling Skibo away from the Alumni, the 
Wherrett Room and the Ballroom proved to be too small 
for the number of people who wanted to dance. These, with 
the last minute make-shift parade and the other small 
problems hurt the weekend and left a bitter taste the 
weekend didn’t deserve causing.
With experience from these areas and the dynamic 
plans for Spring Carnival, the big spring weekend should 
more than make up for the problems of Homecoming.
Levy’s or mine, but the associa­
tion is nevertheless implanted.
Mr. Levy continues in the next 
paragraph, “There are several 
ways to lose our country. One is 
to allow our liberty to be stolen 
from us by irresponsible con- 
spiritors.”
No, Mr. Levy, our country 
won’t be lost by irresponsible 
conspiritors, which you accuse 
Mr. Goldwater of being, not by 
fact, but rather by inference. 
It will be lost by irresponsible 
thinking. Without these, Mr. 
Levy, the conspirator is helpless. 
With everyone thinking our 
candidate is a Hitler, the real 
conspiritor needs only to wait 
and bide his time.
My answer to Mr. Levy has 
been meant as a plea to under­
stand what the real threat to this 
country is. It is not that President 
Johnson, is bad and that Senator 
Goldwater is good. Nothing in 
politics is that simple. Mr. Levy 
has shown us relationship by 
name dropping, without any un­
derlying fact, half truths, hate 
slogans like, “Warhawk in the 
Whitehouse.”
These things are the feeding 
grounds of communism. If Senator 
Goldwater is a Klan member, tell 
us where he joined, what meet­
ings he attends. If he is pro Klan, 
tell us who his associates are, or 
who openly said he is and can 
prove it. Document it and we’ll 
believe it. Then I will vote in the 
best interests of America, not 
Russia or China.
To all who read this, I ask that 
you remember what communism 
is and means to do. Many people 
have said it more eloquently than 
I have here, but my saying it 
again does not make it any less a 
truth.
In this country today we call 
people who openly fight com­
munism extremists, or radical and ill 
subversive. The communists call 
it anti-anti-communist. We ignore 
men like J. Edgar Hoover, we 
condemn the John Birch Society, 
we condemned Senator McCarthy, 
and now we condemn Senator 
Goldwater, all because they are 
or were, tough on Communism.
These people are not without 
their faults, but they know our 
enemy. I urge you, now, to read 
communist literature, Senate in- 
vestigation reports, John Birch 
literature. I urge you to look at 
all aspects of communism and how 
it employs its various methods. 
Get the facts, and then holler from 
the rooftops, whatever your choice 
is. Don’t condemn because some­
body else said its not good for 
you.
In conclusion, Mr. Levy, I did 
not take exception to what you 
said, because it had no substance, ')) 
but rather, to the way you said it.
If there are any doubts as to what 
Senator Goldwater is against, the 
following should illustrate:
Gus Hall, General Secretary of 
the Communist Party, USA, told 
Americans what to expect when 
the communists take over.
Speaking at the funeral of Eu­
gene Dennis in February 1961, 
Hall said:
“I dream of the horn* when the 
last congressman is strangled on 
the gut of the last preacher — 
and since the Christians love to 
sing about the blood, why not give 
them a little of it.”
This, Mr. Levy, was reported in 
the Saint Louis Globe Democrat, 
May 12, 1963. It’s something to 
think about.
T. W. Stockwell 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
i
))

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 21, 1964 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — T»*« 5
Homecoming
Week
Festivities
Tartan Photos by Jim Nichols and Dave Shaffer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, October 21, 194S4
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Oakland Headquarters for Ivy League Fashion
FORBES & ATWOOD OPEN MON., WED., & FRI., til 9
Lamb's Wool V-Neck Pullover Sweaters
ALL SHADES
.98
Are you in a 
of
Tartan 
all pic-photo? Prints of all pic­
tures, whether or not they 
appeared in the paper, are 
available for $1.00 per 8x10.
To order, call the Tartan 
office at 682-4557, or con­
tact Martin Shenker, photo­
graphy editor.
Tell him there’s nothing like nature. The natural shoulder line adhered to faith- fully by College Hall in authentic tradi­tional suits and sportcoats. Available in two and three piece suits. Write for name of nearest clothier. College Hall, Broad at Carpenter St.. Phila. 47, Pa. • N.Y, Office; 
1290 Ave. of the Americas.
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
• MUSTARD
• RELISH
• ONION
• PICKLE
• MAYONNAISE
• SAUERKRAUT
• CHILE
• KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER*2.00>
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 15c 
WHOLE SHELL S2.00 
____ FREE DBLIVCRr TO ALL DORMS -------
(MINIMUM ORDER — K.M»
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET621-7388 — 682-8466
Arrow Cum Laude, an all-cotton oxford with an all-tapered body. From shoulders to chest;, 
to waist and down to the shirttails, it’s trim and true to your body line. No blousy bulge 
above or below your belt line. Gives you a slim, healthy look. Long collar points, high collar 
back and sheer collar comfort in between, with or without a tie. Bold stripes, very boia 
stripes, solids and white all for a mere $5. Arrow Cum Laude,’ A D/P/lit/** 
a bold new breed of dress shirt for a bold new breed of guy. jTMlXMY Sy
Drama Dep’t Celebrates
Fifty Years Of Progr ess
by Gretchen Smith
Carnegie Tech’s Department of Drama celebrates its 
fiftieth year this fall.
Under the guidance of Thomas Weed Stevens, the Drama 
Department was established at Carnegie Tech in 1914 to 
provide professional theater training and a cultural back­
ground for students. ?
The first class of eighteen 
studied for a bachelor of fine 
arts in drama. They were se- | 
leeted for the program on the 
basis of “quality, talent, and po­
tential artistic power.”
Now Carnegie Tech's Drama 
Department has a student body 
of about two hundred. It has 
expanded and specialized dur­
ing these past fifty years.
The department grants bachelor 
of fine arts degrees in acting, di- ; 
recting, play writing, scene and 
costume design, and technical pro­
duction.
A graduate program offers mas­
ter of fine arts degrees in direct­
ing, design, play writing and 
theater management. Candidates 
for doctoral degrees have recent­
ly been accepted.
Six plays selected from classi­
cal and modem repretoires are 
produced by students each year. 
These plays are presented as part 
of a required course for juniors 
and seniors, “Rehearsal and Per­
formance." The first such per­
formance this semester is “Heart­
break House,” which premiers to­
morrow evening.
The first Department of Drama 
production was Shakespeare’s 
"'Two Gentlemen of Veron a," 
which opened on April 23, 1914, 
the author’s birthday. Every year 
since then the department has 
produced a Shakespearean play 
Opening in April.
Many other productions, di­
rected by the students and su­
pervised by the faculty, are per­
formed throughout the year in the 
studio theater.
In 1939, the Theater Arts 
Monthly carried an extensive 
coverage of Carnegie Tech’s 
Drama Department. The article 
stated, “. . . it (the drama de­
partment) is of importance to 
the theater as a whole chiefly 
as a measuring rod and as it 
gives an impetus toward estab­
lishing further goals not yet 
chartered and new goals along 
roads unthought of twenty-five 
years ago.”
The article claimed that, “the 
ultimate product of the univer­
sity theater is to be found not 
in its own productions but in the 
work of its graduates.”
Among the well-known gradu­
ates of Carnegie Tech’s drama de­
partment are: Arthur Kennedy, 
George Peppard, Jack Klugman,
What every son should tell 
his fatherl
Joyce Ebert, Claude Woolman, 
Carl Betz, Nancy Wickwire, and 
Paulie Rowles, all of whom are
in the acting field.
Among others are directors: 
William Ball, Alex Segal, Frank­
lin Heller, Ellis Rabb, and Arthur 
Lubin; designers: Gary Smith, Ab 
Feber, Mary Weaver, James Trit- 
tipe, Elmer Heschong and Howard 
Bay.
Collision Injures Tech Cyclers
Three Carnegie Tech students
were injured in a motorcycle col­
lision last Friday.
Kenneth Peterson, a Junior EE, 
and Susan Warren, a freshman 
P & D, were hospitalized. Dale 
Williamson, a sophomore in 
Graphic Arts was treated for 
minor injuries.
Lecture On College Theater
Mr. Theodore Kraus, editor of 
the Critical Digest, will lecture on 
“The Role of College Theater in 
Off Broadway.” The talk will 
take place in the Fine Arts Thea­
ter, this Tuesday at 11:30 a.m.
WE CANT GET'EM All.BUT
?TORS
Volkswagen Sales and Service
Pittsburgh’s Factory Dealer 
731 Butler St., Pittsburgh 23 
— Etna —

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 21, 1964 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Page 7
Warner’s Retirement Marks Music Given 
End Of 39 Years Of Service By 2 Bands
by Candy Etkin and Liz Seley
Dr. John Christian Warner, after 39 years of service to 
the faculty and students of Carnegie Tech, will retire from 
his position as president of the University. Dr. Horton Guy- 
ford Stever will assume the role of president this February.During his administration, Dr.^----------------—-----------------—--------
Warner has accelerated the aca­
demic and financial standing of 
Carnegie Tech, helping to estab­
lish it as one of the outstanding 
engineering and science schools 
in the United States.
President Warner was first as­
sociated with Carnegie Tech in 
1926 as an instructor of chemistry. 
After securing various positions 
in the engineering and science 
school, he became professor and 
head of the chemistry department, 
a post which he held until 1949. 
He was then appointed vice-pres­
ident and president elect. He also 
served as dean of graduate studies 
from 1945 to 1950. Dr. Warner 
became the fourth president of 
Carnegie Tech in 1950. Said Dr. 
Warner, “It was like a game of 
musical chairs and I ended up in 
the president’s' seat.”
During Dr. Warner’s adminis­
tration Carnegie Tech has experi­
enced its greatest educational and 
physical growth. The develop-
Thinclads Win 
Quadrangular 
Home Meet
Carnegie Tech’s cross country 
team stretched their amazing vic­
tory string to 28 in a row last 
Wednesday as they ran over 
Gannon College, Steubenville and 
Duquesne. They took previously 
undefeated Gannon 23-32, Steu­
benville 47-46, and shut out the 
Dukes 15-50 in the quadranguler 
meet.
Again the one, two, three, 
punch of Harry Burkholder, Roger 
Cairus, and Chris Macosko proved 
unbeatable. All had their per­
sonal best times for the 4.3 mile 
course.
Burkholder is now down to 23 
minutes 32 seconds, only 21 sec­
onds over the Tech record set in 
1962 by Mike Campbell. Cairus 
also broke the 24 minute barrier 
with 23:50.
Threat Quelled
The Gannon team had nine vic­
tories in a row before meeting the 
Tech harriers. Giving Tech a 
score, they took five, six, seven, 
and eight but weren’t strong 
enough. Senior George Crawford 
and sophomore Ken Phillips took 
ninth and tenth.
Vetreran Paul Fackler pulled 
freshman Thom Keim in for elev­
enth and twelfth. Two other 
promising freshmen, Dick Shawl 
and Bill Marrietta, took four­
teenth and seventeenth. Only 
Perry of Steubenville and Hunt 
of Duquesne managed to beat our 
the first nine Tartans.
This week the squad is on the 
road traveling to Geneva this 
afternoon and St. Francis Satur­day. j *j
ment program reflects Dr. War­
ner’s views on variety in educa­
tion. Advanees include the intro­
duction of the Tech interdisci­
plinary approach to education, the 
establishment of the computation 
center, the founding of the ad­
vanced placement program with 
Pittsburgh area high schools, and 
the formation of Carnegie Tech’s 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad­
ministration.
Since Dr. Warner became pres­
ident, 14 new buildings have been 
constructed. Carnegie Tech’s en­
dowment and value of its physical 
plant have doubled.
Faculty salaries have gone up 
100%. Because Carnegie Tech is 
able to offer competitive salaries, 
the quality of the faculty has im­
proved.
Dr. Warner has “a good feeling 
about the quality of the students 
at Tech.” Graduates of Carnegie 
Tech are assured of placement in 
the fields of their choice.
Dr. Warner regrets the fact that 
he was unable to know his stu­
dents on a more personal level.
The Homecoming dance on 
Saturday night was provided 
with slow music by Walt 
Harper in the Skibo Ballroom 
while Sonny and the Pre­
miers played in the Wherret 
Room for those who enjoy 
the monkey, fruge, south- 
street, *and pony.
Jamie Barnes and Larry 
“Woogie” Goffney, a Carnegie 
Tech vocal group, sang popular 
songs and original melodies.
Punch was provided for thirsty 
dancers in the Wherrett lounge.
Later in the evening, fraternity 
awards were presented and cam­
pus honoraries called for new 
members.
Coma Over and Relax 
Playing Pocket Billiards
— at —»
Oakland's Modern 
Pocket Billiard Center
The RACK & CUE
218 Oakland Avenue 
Girls Welcome
Open Daily 11 to 1
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
We can’t be on perfect key every time, but typing error* 
needn’t show. And won’t on Corrasable...Eaton’s paper 
with the special surface that comes clean in a whisk 
with an ordinary pencil eraser. There’s no smear or scar 
left in evidence when you type on Corrasable.
Your choice of Corrasable in 
light, medium, heavy weights and 
Onion Skin. In handy 100- 
sheet packets and 500-sheet 
boxes. Only Eaton makes 
CorrSsable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper "**'*
EATON PAPER CORPORATION :^E,5 PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
The more competent your co-workers are, the greater your satisfaction when 
they admire something you've done. And the better your chances are to 
learn so you can move on to additional responsibilities and rewards.
Boeing’s world leadership in the jet transport field is an indication of the 
calibre of people you’d work with at Boeing. The forward-striding attitude re­
sponsible for this leadership has, since 1916, provided a steady succession 
of pioneering achievements: first twin-engine, retractable-gear, low-wing, 
all-metal airliner; first four-engine, pressurized airliner; first modern, high- 
performance bomber; first large swept-wing, multi-jet bomber; and, of 
course, America’s first jetliner, the 707, and the 720 and three-jet 727. 
(Right now we’re designing a variable-sweep wing supersonic transport.)
Boeing is one of the nation’s major manufacturers of heavy transport heli­
copters (Vertol), and for more than two decades has pioneered most of the 
world's applications of the small gas turbine in aircraft, industrial, marine 
and vehicular fields.
And the space age? Boeing’s contributions here include major contract 
responsibility for the Minuteman ICBM and NASA’s Saturn V Booster —the 
launch vehicle destined to send America’s first lunar landing team to the 
moon. We're also working full blast in all other phases of space flight, 
including a manned earth-orbiting laboratory and a lunar orbiter.
Projects underway in Boeing’s extensive Scientific Research Laboratories 
encompass basic and applied research in celestial mechanics, solid state
physics, nuclear and plasma physics, terrestrial and space flight science! 
and allied human factors. *
Engineers and scientists at Boeing work In small groups, under supervisor! 
picked for ability to inspire and promote the ideas of their associate!. 
Individual initiative and ability get plenty of exposure that way. (The confr 
pany encourages graduate studies at leading colleges and universities netf 
Boeing installations.) Boeing is an equal opportunity employer.
We’re planning to interview engineering and science seniors and gradual* 
students on campus on the date listed below. So drop in at yoar campo! 
placement office and arrange an appointment We’il be looking forward tf 
meeting you.
Thursday and Friday — November 5 and 8
&0AEftVZr
Divisions: Aero-Space • Airplane • Vertol • Turbine • 
and Boeing Scientific Research Laboratories

---------------------------------------------------

• News «
^o fhe '
campus frad^f^oo — 
Square-ply 
from Galey aod Lord— 
fhe f^rsf Fall we^ghf Dacroo 
polyesfer aod coffoo fabr^c 
for your casual slacks.
Io all fhe r^ghf colors 
aod fhe class^c oeufrals.
A Division of Burlington Industries1407 BROADWAY. NEW YORK 1», N. Y.
Pagre 8 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday October t\, 1964
SPORTS
Steeler-Browns Win Star Game,} 
League Action Continues
Grovers Spoil Homecoming; 
Trounte Tartans, 32-13
The
twice.
their
by Bill Hartiep
Despite an amazing exhibition of running and passing, 
Carnegie Tech dropped their fourth game of the season to 
Grove City last Saturday, 32-13.
Led by the passing of Wisniewski and the running backs, 
Barth and Merill, Tech ground out 349 yards against the 
Grovers, but could not produce the scores to win.
^oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooGrove Citv scored the first time j _. A. „ , . . 21. Wisniewski hit D Appoloniathey had the ball, driving 64 myards in five plays, climaxed by | w^h a 23 yard pass to the Tech
Snead's 12 yard run off tackle for j 34, where D’Appolonia attempted 
the score. The kick was no good,! to lateral the ball to Barth but 
and with only three minutes the officials ruled that D’Appo- 
elapsed, Grove City led 6-0. Ionia’s knee had touched the
ground, calling the lateral back. 
Grovers Strike Runs of 6 and 3 yards for Merrill
teams exchanged punts and Barth and a one yard plunge 
Tech took possession at Wisniewski, proved good for 
own 10-yard line, but another first down on the Tech 45 
Grover, Bob Wise, picked off a yard line. The drive stalled, how- 
Wisniewski pass and ran it back ever, and Tech was forced to punt 
to the Tech one. On the next play as the half ended.
Wise took the ball over for the
score. Zeigler converted and the Tartans Drive for Score
score was 13-0. The Tartans opened the second
half with an 85 yard drive for 
After another exchange of their second score of the game, 
punts, the Tartans again took pos- Merrill and Barth carried the 
session on their one yard line, and load on tlie ground to the Grove 
began a 99 yard drive for their city 44 yard line, where Wis- 
first score of the game. The drive niewski took to the air, complet- 
was highlighted by runs of 26 illg a screen pass to Barth, who 
yards for Merrill, 27 yards for, went for 28 yards to the Grover 
Barth, and the pinpoint passing 16. Five plays later, Barth went 
of quarterback Paul Wisniewski. in for the score off right tackle 
who completed three passes in with 8:25 left in the third quarter, 
three attempts, including a 27: The kick was no good and the 
yard roll out pass to Merrill in score was tied 13-13. 
the end zone for the score. Wis­
niewski converted and at the 5:48 Grove City took the kickoff to 
mark of the second quarter, the! their 32, and proceeded to drive 
score was 13-7. 6*5 yards for a touchdown, led by
the running of Wise, Ammon, and 
Grove City returned the kick (Baun, the latter going in for the 
off to their 32. On the first play , score at 4:26 in the quarter. Dick 
from scrimmage, Grover Fred Merrill broke up the pass attempt 
Yetka took the hand off and was j for 2 points and the score re- 
promptly buried on the spot by mained 19-13, Grove City.
Jackson Love’s bone - crushing Itackle. The Grovers then decided Tech was unable to score again, 
to take to the air, completing a jas Grove City wracked up two 
Solomon to Wyman pass for 48 i more TD’s before the game’s end
back. And later in the fourth 
quarter Grover Bill Ammon, in­
tercepted a Tech pass and went 
80 yards for the TD, making the 
score 32-13, Grove City.
Tartan Threat Fails
With only a few minutes left 
in the game, Tech threatened to 
dent Grove City’s 19 point lead. 
Wisniewski completed a 10 yard 
pass to Rich Bell to the Tech 15 
yard line, and two plays later, a 
Wisniewski to Bell pass was good 
for 58 yards to the Grove City 38. 
Then on the last play of the 
game, Wis barely missed hitting 
end Ray Metz, deep in Grover 
territory, and the game ended 
32-13.
Next week the Tartans travel 
to Franklin and Marshall, hoping 
for their second win of the vear.
Carnegie
16
189
160
26
10
3
fo10
1o1
6-35-5
Statistics¦ <
First Downs 
Yards Rushing 
Yards passing 
Pass attempts 
Passes completed 
Passes intercepted 
Penalties 
Fumbles lost 
Punts, average
City
12
162
78
5
2
0
3-25 
2-1 
r 40-6
Football Schedule
Oct. 24 F&M ......... . Away
Oct. 31 Denison . .. .Home
Nov. 7 Rochester. . Home
Nov. 14 W&.T. , Away
by A1 Green
Friday afternoon, before an 
enthusiastic Homecom­
ing Crowd, the Steelers- 
Browns took the third annual 
I.M. All-Star Game with a 
37-20 decision over the Eagles- 
Giants.
Lee Collins fumbled the 
opening kick-off, then recoy^ 
ered it on his own two, and 
after a bad pass from center
sailed into the end zone on punt 
formation, the Eagles-Giants led 
2-0. On the enscuing kick-off the 
ball rolled dead in tre end .zone, 
and it was first and fifteen for the 
Eagles-Giants. Pass interference 
resulted in another first down, but 
a fifteen yard penalty stopped this 
drive.
Harvey Gammon punted into 
the end zone, and then the Steel­
ers-Browns went to work. Col­
lins passed to Bob Livengood for 
a first down, and then hit Baier 
for another one. Then Collins re­
versed his field and scored stand­
ing up. From here on it was just 
a question of how wide the final 
margin would be.
Kranek replaced Collins in the 
Steelers-Browns backfield, and by 
hating Shockey and Livengood 
with long passes, directed two 
more touchdowns before the half 
ended with the Steelers-Browns 
on top by a 24-5 score.
BTP Coach Hank Werronen 
brought Collins back in the third 
quarter, and he passed to Shockey 
for one TD, and ran for another 
himself as the Steelers-Browns 
upped the margain to 37 to 6.
Comeback Fails
In the final quarter the Eagles- 
Giants, under ATO Coach Gerry 
Unger, made a valliant comeback, 
but then it was too late. John 
Blue ran ran ior the first TD. after 
setting it up with a pass to Tom
to the Tech 23.
Tech Grabs Fumble
Grover Baun, scored again from 
the Tech 40 yard line at 2:45 in 
the third, after a scoring punt re-
The hard-hitting Tech line then turn by Russ Snead was called 
forced Yetka to fumble and the 
Tartans recovered on their own
Dieticians Meet
The second annual Institute in 
Effective Management for Dieti­
cians is being held this Friday 
and Saturday, October 23 and 24, 
in Skibo.
This year's program, eo-spon- 1 
sored by Margaret Morrison Car- 
neige College and the Pittsburgh 
and Pennsylvania Dietetic Asso- 1 
ciation, presents a psychological ; 
study of the behavior of adminis- ; 
trators.
H & J BARBER SHOP
4 Barbers 
MOVED — NEW MODERN 
QUARTERS — ACROSS ST. 
TO 118 OAKLAND AVE.
TONY’S BARBER SHOP
125 Bouquet St. 
Near Tower Dorms 
Open 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Daily
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
SUZUKI
World's largest Manufacturer of 2 Cycle Motorbikes
SUZI-K
Streba Garage .................................................................. .Oakland
Golick Motor Sales ..........................................Pitcairn
Outboard Haven..........................................Verona, Pa.
Engle Marine Sales..............................Washington, Pa.
Mount Oliver Motor Sales..................Brownsville Road
Violet Spray Autowash ... .North Hills Shopping Center 
Gabrasch Hardware....... .....................Brighton Road
AUTO-BURRO 261-4080
Kline. Then a Kranek pass was 
intercepted by Doug Cranwell for 
another score, and the scoring was 
ended for the afternoon.
League Action
In regular league action, PKA 
defeated TDP 21-8, to throw the 
race for second place in the Eagles 
League into a turmoil. GSIA “B” 
defeated BSR 19-15 to clinch first 
in the Brown’s League.
DU beat the Finks “B” 21-20 
and, the Finks turned around and 
beat Phi Kap 21-2. The Grad 
Nads downed the Dips 45-12, SN 
downed the Dinks 36-3, the Or­
ganization beat the Good Guys 27- 
13 and BTP downed the Dinks 
19-6.
However, the game of the week 
occurred between the Cellar 
Dwellers and SAE, as the deter­
mined freshmen, led by Lagatella, 
Barlak. Chittinm, and Menell al­
most derailed the SAE express 
before dropping a 19-18 verdict 
in the final seconds.
Playoffs Coming: Soon
When the playoffs open this 
week-end, the Cellar Dwellers 
will be watching from the side­
lines. but if they continue to play 
the same brand of inspired foot­
ball that they displayed against 
SAE, theirs will be the names that 
will be appearing in the headlines 
on the Tartan sports page during 
the next few years.
Sorority Round Robin
The Panhellenic Concil will hold 
a second Round Robin Sunday, 
October 25, for those interested in 
joining sororities. The seven sor­
orities will use the basement 
rooms in Skibo. The Round Robin 
will begin at 2:00 p.m.
Upperclassmen and freshman 
are reminded to sign up for 
sorority rush before October 29, 
and to pick up a copy of the rush 
booklet in Dean Milligan’s office.
OAKLAND HABERDASHERY SHOP
Ivy Styles In 
3614 Forbes Ave.
Sportswear, Sweaters, Shirts, Suits. Jackets,
Hats, Slacks, Raincoats, Belts. Ties, Socks,
Caps. Umbrellas, and Ski Wear.
Across from Strand Theatre Call 621-1724
