The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1944
Selective Service Will 
Give IA-L’s Deferment:
A.C.A.C. Summer Swing Dance 
Features Bernie Armstrong
The National Headquarters of the 
Selective Service System have just 
announced that the pursuit of an un­
dergraduate course in engineering 
will henceforth be considered an es­
sential industry, and that therefore all engineering students whose draft status is 1A L, (limited service), are qualified to receive, at the request of the college authorities, a deferment to finish their studies.
Dr. Webster N. Jones, Director of 
the College of Engineering, requests 
all those students now classified 
1A L and 4F to report in his office 
at their earliest convenience, in or­
der that the necessary steps for 
their deferments may be taken as 
soon as possible.
This long awaited ruling substi­
tutes the assurance of a deferment 
for the previous nerve-racking un­
certainty of the 1A L status. Boys in 
limited service were formerly plac­
ed on a waiting list, from which 
they could be called either in two 
days or in two months.
Communique No. 2 
On Army Frolic
Last Saturday, as the army trudg­
ed its weary way homeward from 
its “toughening up march” the 
thoughts of every man were turn­
ing ever towards July 7, the date of 
the proposed Army Social. For 
now the truth is known; the latest 
communiques have been released— 
the date is set.
In case you came in late, the so­
cial to which we are referring is the 
Company A party at which the 
members of Company A can eat, 
drink, and be merry at the expense 
of the Unit Fund. Billy May’s Or­
chestra will entertain from 9 until 
midnight, but individuals may re­
sort to their own modes of enter­
tainment until the desire for sleep 
overpowers them. In other words, 
all concerned will be free until 
Reveille the following morning.
Arrangements are being made to 
provide transportation since the 
likely spot for the party will be 
the St. Clair Country Club, in Mt. 
Lebanon.
Max Hannum Becomes 
Publications Advisor
Coupled with the announcement 
establishing the position of Editor­
ial Adviser for Student publica­
tions, it was learned that Max E. 
Hannum, Tech basketball coach, 
has been appointed to fill this post. 
Thus, Mr. Hannum now has title to 
what has been his unofficial capac­
ity for so long, that is, the guid­
ance and assistance of the various 
editors.
The duties of the editorial ad­
visor are to counsel the staff and ed­
itors of . all the college publications 
and to assist them in the interpreta­
tion of the school’s editorial policy.
Dr. Jones Speaks, GI Band Plays 
At Senior Commencement Service
This semester’s commencement 
exercises will be held June 29 and 
30 in the Sylvan Theater, behind 
Fine Arts Building. In case of bad 
weather, services will be held in 
the Little Theater in Fine Arts. This 
graduation is a special one, mark­
ing the end of the senior engineer’s 
accelerated expedited program.
Baccalaureate services will begin 
at 8 o’clock, Thursday evening. 
Tech’s military band will play the 
processional and recessional with 
the quartet from the Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church singing. Rev. 
Norman C. Milliron, pastor of the 
First Evangelical Church of Pitts­
burgh, will speak on “Life At Its 
Best.”
For the commencement exercises 
on Friday evening starting at 10 
o’clock, the music will again be sup­
plied by the military band. In ad­
dition, Miss Mabel King, contralto, 
accompanied by Matthew Frey, will
APO Runs Program For 
Scouting Freshmen Boys
The Carnegie chapter of the Al­
pha Phi Omega scouting service 
fraternity met last Thursday, June 
15, for the purpose of introducing 
interested freshmen to the organ­
ization. Speakers at the occasion 
were Dr. Kent Shaeffer, Dr. J. M. 
Daniels, Dr. Robert Gregg, and Dr. 
Eyman, who each spoke briefly in 
behalf of the fraternity.
Jerry Brickman, president of the 
chapter, disclosed plans for a 
camping trip to be held from July 
first to the third, and invited all the 
freshmen who are or have been 
members of the Boy Scouts of 
America to attend. He pointed out 
that “the fraternity is a national c r- 
ganization with the purpose of r* l- 
dering service to campus and con- 
munity.”
Dr. Shaeffer, a national officer of 
the Alpha Phi Omega, stated in his 
Continued on Page 4
be the soloist. Dr. Webster N. Jones, 
Director of the College of Engineer­
ing will be the speaker.
There will be two graduation 
services this summer. Besides the 
engineers, the senior secretarials of 
Margaret Morrison will graduate 
August 27.
Black Cat Will Be 
Open For Refreshments
Attention all ye followers of the 
hep cat brigade. The Summer 
Swing Dance, sponsored by A. C. 
A. C. will be in progress on Satur­
day evening, June 24, from 9 p. m. 
to 1 a. m. in Thistle Hall. Featured 
will be Bernie Armstrong, well 
known organist and band leader, 
along with his band, and Faye Park­
er, vocalist. Tickets will already be 
on sale in the Administration Hall 
by the time this paper comes out, 
but you had better hurry and get 
yours before they are gone. Any 
not sold beforehand will be on sale 
at the door.
Thistle Hall will be in the spot­
light in full decoration. It is on 
the second floor of the gymnasium 
and is accessible through either the 
rear door, or the front via the men’s 
basketball court. Refreshments, 
which are to be prepared by 
APO, will be served at the Black 
Cat, which is a soft drink bar built 
on the order of a tavern, directly be­
low Thistle Hall will be opened for 
the first time since the spring of ’43.
You may ask why this is a big 
night; well we are going to let you 
in on a little secret. It will be the 
last jam session before the seniors 
leave and the first which the incom­
ing frosh have the great privilege 
of attending.
. In charge of the dance is a com­
mittee including Mazie Rial, Bert 
Faigen, Nick Yaru, Bill Roberts, and 
Jerry Brickman, who are formu­
lating plans and preparing for mak­
ing the you-can’t-miss-it-dance, the 
Summer Swing, a great success.
cMolidcuf, tyon 113
Frosh Enjoy First Week 
In Leisurely Fashion
This was it! The big social week 
that I’d been told was the boom­
erang beginning to my career as a 
genuine C. I. T. ite. When the 114 
bright expectants encountered their 
first Pre-engineering Inventory Ex­
ams a la hard stools and no water, I 
noticed a slightly disillusioned pal­
lor on their faces, but the majority 
of them remained optimistic, await­
ing the promised fun-for-all.
Registering from 1 ’till 5:30 prov-. 
ed even more joyful, particularly 
the brief two hour wait for that 
elongated laundry sheet which later 
revealed its true identity. It seems 
Continued on Page 4
Munhall Heads Intramurals
Commencement
It was voted by the Executive 
Board at the meeting of June 8 
that on Commencement Day, 
June 30, all civilian classes sched­
uled prior to 1:00 p. m. be can­
celled. However, the classes in 
the Army Specialized Training 
Program will continue as usual.
Burt Munhall, former athletic 
trainer at C. I. T., was recently ap­
pointed Director of Intramural Ath­
letics, the previous director, who, 
because of his other offices, was un­
able to retain the position. Mr. 
Munhall’s principal duty is to di­
rect intramural athletics in a har­
monious way, satisfying every per­
son concerned.
In 1913 he was here at C. I. T. 
watching the football team, of 
which his nephew was captain, 
play. Overhearing a conversation 
about C. I. T.’s trainer leaving he 
applied for the position, and on Feb­
ruary 13, 1914, he reported for work 
as athletic trainer. He has held this 
position until his promotion re­
cently.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1944
ZdUotX AnmcUain
The Deacon Went Down
Ordinarily, the passing of an officer into the Elysian Fields of military 
duty is witnessed by the enlisted men with varied feelings. Seldom, if 
ever, is regret one of these feelings. But when it was learned that Lieuten­
ant Merrill F. Bumstead had been transferred to another unit, there were 
few proverbial dry eyes in the company.
Deacon Bumstead, as he was affectionately known, had the innate 
ability to give a bit of space and interest to the dullest subjects, a fact 
which made a military lecture more than just something to be endured. 
His forceful eloquence had all the qualities of a sermon delivered from 
the pulpit, and the second in command of Company A was soon popularly 
known as The Reverend.
Lieutenant Bumstead arrived at Tech last November and was given 
the rather ticklish job of converting the AST Reserves to the ways of 
army life. He succeeded admirably and instilled precision into the seven- 
teen-year olders. In addition to this, Lieutenant Bumstead deserved the 
credit (?) for organizing the Army band.
After the coup d’ASTP Lieutenant Bumstead was assigned as Admin­
istrative Officer of Company A where he served until his transfer. Al­
though it is not known exactly where the Lieutenant’s duties will take 
him, it is probable that he will be overseas shortly since he is now train­
ing in the Judge-Advocate Property-Claims Adjustment Course.
The essentials of Property-Claims Adjustment deal with the reim­
bursement of civilians for property damages inflicted under battle con­
ditions. There is little likelihood of such damage occurring within the 
confines of the Continental limits. Therefore, it is not unreasonable to 
guess at the whereabouts of Lieutenant Bumstead.
H. W. S.
The Outlook . .
The Problems Of The Peace
By Professor Norman H. Dawes 
Conclusion
b.
c.
d.
Editorial Policy Of The Tartan
1. The staff reserves the right to print material that they believe to be of 
interest and value to the students. This material will be restricted by 
the following stipulations:
a. It must be the truth.
It must abide by all the recognized standards of decency. 
The Tartan must in no way be a party to the defamation of 
the character of any individual.
The Tartan will not deal with any “off-campus” controversial 
matters that will clearly involve the good name of the insti­
tution.
Tartan copy, exclusive of official releases, will be written in a manner 
thought by the staff to be the most interesting and informative to the 
students.
The editorial, signed articles, and letters to the editor are to be con­
strued as the opinion of the individual authors, not necessarily that 
of the staff, or the school.
Official releases from the administration, if issued as such, will be 
printed verbatim. The staff and the editor reserve the right to com­
ment on these releases in the editorial column, or in signed articles. 
Except as limited by points one and four, the staff reserves the right 
to exercise complete freedom of expression, but will accept and honor 
all criticism concerning the enforcement of the above points.
May 23, 1944.
2.
4.
5.
Welcome, Max
Max E. Hannum, our inimitable basketball coach and head of the Car­
negie Tech News Bureau, has at last become officially what he has been 
unofficially for many years: the advisor, mentor, and friend of the C. I. T. 
student publications.
There is so much we could say about Max—about his truly invaluable 
friendship; his constant readiness with advice and good-humored criticism 
—and his many other qualities—that we are better off leaving it unsaid.
Here’s to you, Max—welcome!
E. A. L.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
C*rae(i( Institute of TeehnoUir, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa. 
rHONI MAYFLOWER MM PHONE SCHENLEY 45ft?
MMUWTU ro« NATtOMAL ABVMTWWa »V _ _National Advertising Service, Inc. Office Hours Cali
CalUt* . Edit«r-in-Chief...........................EM. 9424
420 maomon Vo n«w l.38N n. 2N Business Manager..EM. 9424
OMCAI# * lOCIOfl • LM AMUM * SAI FBMKWCO
latent as 0CACR *¦— matter In the Pitt«birr» Po»t Office ander the Act of March S. 1X79.Pibliikd weekly daring sehosi year, except holiday« and examination periods.Subscription Pries 11.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor ............................................................................ Pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager .............................................................................................. Ed Friedman
Managing Editors........................................................................Adeline Herlick, Al Perry
News Editor ................................................................................................. Jerry BrickmanCopy and Headline Editor................................................................................Clara HerronSports Editor ........................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Circulation Manager............................................................................................ Ivan Faigen
AST Circulation Manager ...................................................................... Pfc. Chuck Pettis
An effective plan for the post-war 
disposition of Germany and Japan 
would be of greater immediate 
value than a competent world state 
and the maintenance of alliances 
among the victors. In the want of 
such plan we are woefully weak. 
Secretary Hull urges that we con­
centrate on winning the war and 
worry about our enemies after they 
are defeated, while President 
Roosevelt merely offers the formula 
of “unconditional surrender.” Our 
bankruptcy in this respect is begin­
ning to have serious consequences. 
It has played into the hands of 
Goebbels, for he has convinced the 
Germans that “unconditional sur­
render” means extirpation and that 
their only hope lies in a struggle so 
violent and bloody as to force a 
compromise peace. Our ideological 
timidity, moreover, means that we 
are neglecting the utilization of the 
propaganda weapon which so great­
ly hastened the collapse of militar­
ism iu the Germany of 1918. We 
Americans who pride ourselves on 
our advertising prowess have stood 
idly by, while the Russians have 
called the tune, for the Kremlin has 
endorsed the program of the Na­
tional Committee for Free Ger­
many. The Russian-sanctioned plan 
cannot fail to appeal to important 
elements in Germany. It envisions 
the overthrow of Hitler, the forma­
tion of a democratic government, 
the abolition of laws based on na­
tional and race hatreds, the restor­
ation and extension of the rights of 
the workers, the establishment of 
the right to acquire wealth, the re­
lease and indemnification of all vic­
tims of the Gestapo, and the punish­
ment of those directly responsible 
for the war.
The Free Germans have succeed­
ed in pointing out the necessity for 
thoughtful attention to a hitherto 
neglected phase of war and peace. 
Exceedingly valuable though the 
recommended procedure is, it is 
capable, I believe, of some improve­
ment. It must be made crystal 
clear, to the defeated that they are 
defeated, and, of even greater im­
portance, they must be deprived of 
the means and motivation for fu­
ture aggressions. Military occu­
pancy of Berlin and Tokyo is the 
most obvious essential. Key indus­
trial, resources, and strategical areas 
should be conrtolled by a small, but 
effective United Nations force. Peri­
odic investigations should be con­
ducted to forestall a resurgence of 
war preparations. The Junker aris­
tocracy and the Samuri warrior 
class should be eliminated, not by 
slaughter but by deprivation of 
power. This could be done by di­
viding the great landed estates 
among the common people, forbid­
ding intermarriage among the aris­
tocrats, and legislating primogeni­
ture, entail, and tax exemptions out 
of existence. Opponents of popular 
governments should not be tolerat­
ed. Those bent on the overthrow of 
a democratic order should not be 
permitted to organize, bear arms, 
parade, and agitate. It will be said 
that this is undemocratic and to that 
charge I freely admit. Surely, how­
ever, by this time we are sufficient­
ly sobered by expeience to realize
the folly of giving the opponents 
of democracy a free hand in the 
name of democracy.
Were the United Nations to resort 
only to punitive measures, the fu­
ture would be troubled with pent- 
up resentments and frustrations on 
the part of those under control. The 
righteous wrath which we feel can­
not justify blindness to Burke’s 
great dictum; to wit, an entire peo­
ple cannot be condemned. In our 
opposition to the Hitler-Tojo spirit, 
we should not ignore the Goethe- 
Shotoku side of our adversaries. It 
is precisely the latter side that we 
must invoke if peace is to become 
an enduring reality. Self-govern­
ment incorporating demorcatic as­
piration will have to be given more 
than friendly words; it will have to 
be accorded rights of trade, finan­
cial stability, and opportunity for 
peaceful economic expansion. Edu­
cational systems will have to be re­
oriented to undo the work of Nazi 
and Shintoistic fanatics. The ex­
change of students and instructors, 
the restoration of intellectual free­
dom, and the use of German and 
Japanese teachers of democratic 
sympathies should prove useful. 
Men’s spirits as well as their minds 
will have to be given a new birth, 
for peace is incompatible with the 
veneration of Wotan or with emper­
or worship. Fortunately, there is a 
deep-rooted tradition of Christian­
ity in Germany, while in Japan the 
teachings of Confucianism, with its 
emphasis on brotherly love, have 
never entirely disappeared despite 
the popularity of Shintoism. Over 
one hundred forty million people 
cannot be driven to redemption. 
While being restrained from mak­
ing trouble, they must be encour­
aged, as all men have to be encour­
aged, to fulfill the finer aspects of 
their nature.
Were we to adopt only a “hard” 
policy, the peoples we will have 
conquered will one day rise in 
wrath to assert their sense of dig­
nity and power. Were only a “soft” 
policy to be invoked, the militarists 
would regard us as fools and would 
bide their time to renew their ef­
forts for world domination. The 
part of wisdom, I believe, is to ad­
vance toward the vanquished, 
brandishing a sword in one hand 
and dangling an olive branch in the 
other. Let the sword be preemi­
nent at the outset, but as.it becomes 
increasingly apparent that ideals of 
civilized conduct are to obtain, the 
olive branch should be progressive­
ly evident in the dealings between 
the conquerors and the ¿onquered.
A final prerequisite for a just and 
enduring peace, to my mind, is that 
we of this country put ourselves in 
harmony with the great dynamic 
forces that are surging through 
world society. The center of polit­
ical and economic gravity is no 
longer to be found exclusively in 
Western Europe, but with the 
spread of the Industrial Revolution 
is moving outward to Russia, China, 
and the Americas. The size of ef­
fective political units, moreover, 
seems to be growing larger and 
larger with the shape of things to 
come being evidenced by the Med- 
Continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM C01N£S
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
i/ TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1944 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
^ ALL 
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Frosh Enrollment 
111 Boys, Two Girls
The total enrollment of the new 
freshman class stood at 113 mem­
bers at the end of last week, Mr. E. 
W. Collins, registrar, announced. 
The new class, the largest in three 
enrollment periods, raised the total 
civilian enrollment at Carnegie 
Tech to 410 for the summer term.
The incoming freshmen represent 
seventeen states. Forty-four of the 
eighty-six Pennsylvania freshmen 
are from Pittsburgh.
Enrollment in the various classes 
is, in addition to the new freshmen, 
as follows: In engineering, eighty- 
nine seniors, sixty-four juniors, 
fifty-six sophomores and twenty- 
nine freshmen on the quarterly 
plan. Thirty-nine girls are enrolled 
as senior secretarials at Margaret 
Morrison.
Audrey Hoby and Maria T. Tra- 
gan, registered as aeronautical en­
gineers, are the only two girls in 
the freshman class.
The freshman class is operating 
on the semester plan, which consists 
of three sixteen week periods per 
year, rather than the term arrange­
ment followed by the remainder of 
the engineering division. The three 
semesters will end on September 
28, January 30, and May 29.
William Libby, a graduate from 
Carnegie Tech in 1941, who is a 
special student in the mathematics 
department is registered with the 
freshmen class.
.. ACAC Minutes..
Forty-seventh Meeting 
June 13, 1944.
The meeting was called to order 
at 7:40 p. m.
Present: Messrs. Bokman, Mar­
cus, and Robbins; Misses Barclay 
and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Atheltics
Mr. Robbins moved that the min­
utes of the Intramural Board meet­
ing of May 16 be accepted as read.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Miss Bloom moved that A. C. A. 
C. sponsor an all-school dance on 
Saturday, June 24.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM, 
Secretary.
Outlook ...
Continued from Page 2 
iterranean Commission, the Ref­
ugee Conference, and the joint mil­
itary commands. As Willkie has so 
cogently pointed out, one world is 
emerging. The question before us 
has to do with the nature of that 
world. Shall it be one of New Or­
ders and Co-Prosperity Spheres 
managed by self-styled master men 
in exploitation of slave masses or 
shall it be a federation of free na­
tions and men who respect each 
others dignity and rights? As tech­
nology advances the economic inter­
dependence of nations becomes in­
creasingly apparent, for each indus­
trial power is variously dependent 
upon foreign sources for such es­
sential commodities as managanese, 
bauxite, rubber, and oil. We would 
be more than idiotic, therefore, 
were we in the fact of these great 
forces to resort once more to eco­
nomic nationalism, isolation, price 
wars, indiscriminately high tariffs, 
and currency manipulation. Peace 
can never come to an agonized 
world unless we pin our faith on in­
ternational cooperation, scientific 
tariffs, low prices, wide consump­
tion, the maintenance of natural re­
source bases, and a workable com­
promise between the extremes of 
irresponsible individualism and an 
overweening collectivism.
The suggestions that I have made 
are not intended to present a blue­
print for peace. They are offered 
only as possible solutions, not as in­
fallible requirements. The time has 
come for the assertion of more than 
glittering generalities. Our advan­
tages at this stage are numerous 
and weighty. We have organized 
man power by the millions. Ours is 
the greatest industrial and agricul­
tural equipment that the world has 
ever known. Consumer demand and 
purchasing power will impart un- 
paralled power to our productive 
system. Unless we use these assets 
wisely to fashion a better world for 
the future, we will betray those 
who are now dying on the field of 
battle and we will be rightly accus­
ed by posterity of having been too 
incompetent to think straight in a 
great emergency.
Tassie Truxell
Tassie Truxell—“I like to go to 
these out-of-the-way places with 
Kenny. Its cozier that way.”
The Vacuum Cleaner
Buy War Bonds
----TODAY-----“For Future Needs**
Again taking the role of the In­
quiring Photographer, the Vacuum 
Cleaner has attempted to answer a 
question of great social significance. 
The question is—“What do you like 
to do with your date on a Saturday 
night?” Naturally the ideal persons 
to question and photograph were the 
Senior Secretarials who are at Tech 
this summer, and here are the re­
sults—
Janet Armstrong
Name withheld on request—“If I 
answered truthfully I couldn’t take 
this paper home!”
Dotty Stauff — “Dance. Can you 
think of anything better?” (Yes. 
Ed.)
By E. P. H.
Ann Rodgers
Ann Rodgers—“I like to be alone 
with a certain engaged man!”
Helen Robinson
Helen Robinson — “I don’t care 
what I do as long as I have a good 
time.”
Billie Macllraith
Billie Macllraith—“Oh there’s va­
rious forms of amusement.”

---------------------------------------------------

4THE, CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1944
Mu&Uball
Citcom Clan Leads First Division, 
Company A-22 Heads League Two
Warren Snow at Bat
Holiday For 113
Continued from page 1 
my name, address, and telephone 
number, school activities (now I 
wish I hadn’t joined anything in 
high school) and scholarship re­
ceived, if any, are wanted by such 
personages as the registrar, alumni 
federation, president of the Weep­
ing Violets Club, the Gaiety Girls, 
Boy Scout’s Fire-Building Unit, and 
some other individuals too numer­
ous to mention. After autograph­
ing these necessary papers and class 
coupons some 350 times, a mass of 
representatives from the various 
fraternities grabbed me off to be in­
troduced to the fellas, which then 
led to my enlightenment about sev­
eral pertinent subjects including: 
the “fudge factor,” “coefficient of 
correction,” “Soc Rel,” “T. S.” and 
“in your extra hours, why don’t 
you write for the Tartan?”
Tuesday’s outlook sounded even 
better—another PEI Test until 12 
and then the refreshing job of un­
packing my so-far neglected cloth­
ing. From then on, everything is 
hazy except the fact that there was 
“Playday” on the Cut and one of 
the “playmates” informed me that 
the canteen had ice cream cones 
guaranteed to recharge my one 
corpuscle.
An invitation to attend the Fresh­
man Y. M. C. A. dinner was given 
me and I jubilantly thought, “This 
must be the gaiety I’d vaguely re­
membered hearing about.” It was! 
I learned the names of about forty 
fellow students, about twice as 
many faces, and that jello mixed 
with peas goes good together. The 
evening was memorable. I think 
the whole thing was planned to 
make us forget the terrifying ex­
perience of registering.
“To pass this course,” the Prof 
said, “you must at least know my 
name, which is Willis.” Soc Rel was 
going to be a cinch—Willis is a very 
easy name to remember. He neg­
lected to say, however, in that 
breath, that he also wanted a brief 
resume of each article, somewhere 
in the region of 400 words, and that 
classroom participation is greatly 
appreciated.
Upon the wind-up of Wednes­
day’s classes, a careful survey re­
vealed we had exactly eight hours 
homework to do in six (no time out 
for dinner) and a dozen letters to 
write back home. Yep, in spite of it 
all, I still had the courage to tell 
everyone the kick (not to be taken 
literally) I get out of college, and 
all the unique characters I’ve run 
across.
Dave Jones Becomes 
Y-Cabinet President
At a meeting of “Y” cabinet last 
Thursday night, officers for the se­
mester were chosen. Scheduled to 
take over are Dave Jones, president; 
Augie Binder, vice-president; and 
Bob Straka, secretary. Also dis­
cussed were plans for the summer. 
Although the ranks of “Y” cabinet 
have been depleted in the past year, 
it is plans to carry on a full scale of 
activities.
All freshmen are invited to at­
tend the next “Y” meeting to be 
held Thursday, June 22, at 7:30 P. 
M. in the Carnegie Union. This will 
be the first opportunity for fresh­
men to become acquainted with the 
activities of the “Y” Cabinet.
At the end of the fourth week of 
mushball, victory for league num­
ber one seems to be well in the 
hands of the Citcom Clan. They 
are scheduled to play only two 
more games; both will be teams that 
they have once defeated. The rea­
sons for,this superiority is that Cit­
com has a wealth of player material 
to draw from as compared to the 
war-depleted fraternities. Also, 
credit must be given to their pitch­
er, Arnold, who is one of the best 
hurlers in the league.
A thriller of last week was the 
Senior Chem.-Citcom game. Hard 
hitting chemicals and the previously 
unbeaten commutors fought out a 
hard game in which the chemicals 
came up victors by only one run. 
The score was close—5-4.
League Two is headed by smooth- 
playing A-22. The Army boys seem­
ed to slightly outclass the frat 
teams. However, the Junior Me­
chanicals hold a close second having 
lost only once in five starts. Last 
Tuesday, M-22 defeated the Me­
chanicals by a mark of 5-3. Credit 
must be given to Dave Saylor of the 
Civilian team who not only pitch­
ed a fine game but also hit a long 
home run.
Last Friday, the Theta Xi’s piled 
up six runs in the first inning of a 
game with the Junior Mechanicals. 
Under pressure their opponents col­
lected seven fast tallies. The fra­
ternity finally took a painful beat­
ing to the tune of a 29-11 score.
Credit must be given to Bob Rid­
dell, Beta, as the pitcher of the 
week. Although Beta Theta Pi 
trailed ten runs behind their Citcom 
opponents, still “Ridley” hurled a 
great ball game. The difference was 
due to poor outfielding.
ASTP’s Whip Gobs, 6-3 
In First Army-Navy 
Softball Tournament
As the sun threw long shadows 
across the field and 80 fans watched 
breathlessly, the men of the army 
sank the middies to the tune of six 
to three. Of course it was only soft­
ball and the scene of the tussle was 
not the Yankee Stadium, but the 
game between the sailors and sol­
diers on Campus had all the ear­
marks of a West Point-Annapolis 
scrap.
The game started with a bang and 
in their first time at bat, the navy 
went ahead on a hit and a wild 
throw, scoring one run and giving 
an indication of things to come. 
However, the army came right up 
with a bang, two of them in fact, 
and sent home Weidner, Mraz, Kaf- 
fenberger anti Rabinowitz. Phil 
Potts, navy fastball artist, pitched 
himself out of trouble and the army 
was held scoreless for three more 
innings.
In the top of the fourth inning, 
the sailors made their last attempt 
to overtake the army and on the 
basis of a solid double and a sharp 
single, scored one' run and advanc­
ed a runner to third. The next 
batter hit a long looper to Bloom, 
army right fielder and the runner 
beat the throw to home plate. The 
score did not remain 4-3 for very 
long, for the soldiers, led by short­
stop Weidner, pushed two more 
runs across. That ended the scor­
ing for both sides, since neither 
team threatened again. It was the 
first time that the navy team had 
been beaten by the ASTPers.
A. P.O.
Continued from Page 1 
talk, “although the APO is an ex­
tra-curricular activity, it is essen­
tial to the well rounding of your 
character.”
To follow up the introductory 
meeting, a weiner roast was held 
for the freshmen last Saturday 
night at the APO fireplace behind 
the Carnegie Union.
Have a Coca-Cola = ¿Qué Hay, Amigo?
(WHAT GIVES, PAL?)
.. .from Panama to Portland
Down Panama way, they like our friendly customs. Have a “Coke”, 
says the American soldier and the natives know he is saying 
We are friends. . . just as truly as when you offer Coca-Cola from 
your own refrigerator at home. Everywhere Coca-Cola stands 
for the pause that refreshes, —has become the high-sign of kindly- 
minded people the world over.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY »Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, * A.
It’s natural for popular name« 
to acquire friendly abbrevia­
tion!. That’» why you hear 
Coca-Cola called “Coke*’.
