Inside
........................................LIO 11
Comics....................................................iS
: Diversions..............................................................L7
features.................................................................LIfötum........................................6
Spwts......................................................................9
)X populi.............................................LIO
We will not be printing 
next week, due to mid - 
semester. The next 
issue wiil be March 13.
Features
Things to do when it’s 
warm • See page LI
Gabrlen Symons/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Diversions
Oscar predictions for 
1995 • see page L7
THE TARTAN
0|ume 89, Issue 18Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190627 February 1995Student Senate selects new leader
jyMAX CfflTOSTER
'artan Assistant News Editor
At the Senate meeting on Tues- 
ay night, Kami White, an H&SS 
ophomore, became CMU Stu- 
¡entBody President, succeeding 
ormer president Declan 
IcCullagh. As a result, White 
. step down from her posi- 
ion as Academic Affairs (AA) 
¡hair. Brian Mueller, a sopho- 
nore CIT student, was elected as 
her successor. White was named 
iresident after Burt Holzman, 
itudent Senate Chair, and 
JrendenMielke, Campus Affairs 
¡hair, declined the position. 
White has been a Senator since 
ier first semester at CMU, and 
Academic Affairs Chair since her 
¡econd semester. She feels that 
had “a great experience as 
&A Chair.” During her tenure as 
, AA participated in several 
lew projects aimed at giving stu- 
lents more of a voice in the uni- 
rersity. One of the accomplish- 
nents of which White is most 
irond of is her work with the 
Educational Facilities Commit- 
ee. This committee deals with, 
imong other things, what needs
o be done to improve the class­
rooms on campus. In the past, the cated to repair the desks and
committee has consisted of mostly chairs in that room.
faculty, and there was little stu- White was also involved in ef-
J!m Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
Academic Affairs Chair Kami White was named the new CMU Student 
Body President at last Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting.
dent input. Academic Affairs put 
together a survey and sent it to
1,000 students. This survey asked 
what the student felt needed to 
be done to improve the class­
rooms. One of the rooms which 
received the most complaints was 
Porter Hall 100. As a result of 
this survey, $125,000 was allo-
forts to reform the registration 
process. In November 1994,1,000 
students were surveyed to deter­
mine what facets of the registra­
tion process are most in need of 
change. White said that this was 
in order to “provide a better link 
between registration, financial 
aid, and the cashier.” The stu­
dents overwhelmingly responded 
that, of the three, registration 
was the biggest problem. As a 
result, in a report sent to Presi­
dent Mehrabian and CMU Ad­
ministration, the AA Committee 
proposed that “a student-centered 
registration system be 
implemented promptly in or­
der to better serve students 
at the University.” White 
feels that making the regis­
tration process available on­
line would be one of the most 
viable alternatives.
White plans to continue 
these sorts of programs as 
Student Body President. She 
is also planning on continu­
ing some of the programs of 
her predecessor. “I’m review­
ing a lot of initiatives ... be­
cause a lot of them are worth­
while,” she said.
One of these initiatives in­
volves the shuttle service to 
Squirrel Hill. White plans 
to work with the Shuttle 
Committee, which is chaired by 
Steve Slominski. “What we want 
to see come out of this semester is 
a deal either with PAT or with 
the internal shuttles [to continue 
the service to Squirrel Hill],”
White said. White is interested 
in modifying faculty course evalu­
ations. Some students have com­
plained that teachers do not have 
students fill out the evaluations, 
and as a result, the students’ 
voices are never heard. This is
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
Brian Mueller was elected head of the Academic 
Affairs Committee after White vacated the position.
because, at the moment, the 
evaluations are optional. White 
hopes to work alongside Faculty 
Senate in order to solve this prob­
lem.
White’s replacement as AA
Chair, Brian Mueller, is in his 
first year on Student Senate.
Mueller plans to build upon 
some of White’s existing pro­
grams, including the faculty 
course evaluations and the regis­
tration reform.
He said, “Before I 
graduate, I’d like to 
see some improve­
ment in the registra­
tion process. There’s 
no reason we can’t 
improve our own 
computer systems,” 
he said.
A new concern for 
the AA Committee 
concerns some phys­
ics classes which 
were observed as part 
of a psychology ex­
periment. Appar­
ently, physics lab 
groups are occasion­
ally observed inter­
acting with each 
other by psychology 
students.
This year, students have begun 
using video cameras, which both­
ers some students. “Cameras do 
bother some people,” Mueller 
said.
Committee sponsors speaker
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan News Editor
The University Bboard Committee 
sponsored Dr. Frederick Schauer, the 
Frank Stanton Professor of the First 
Amendment at the John F. Kennedy 
School of Government at Harvard 
University, to speak on obscenity, the 
First Amendment, and the Internet 
Friday afternoon at the Mellon Audi­
torium in Posner Hall.
Schauer was invited by Dr. Erwin 
Steinberg, vice-provost for education 
and chairman of the committee. There 
s controversy surrounding the 
speech when word leaked that Schauer
3 a member of the Meese Commis­
sion back in the mid-1980’s.
A number of students who actively 
protest censorship were upset about 
: speaker. “People ran off shouting 
before they knew what they were talk­
ing about,” said Steinberg. “The daim 
that I brought in a ringer is just ab­
surd.”
Steinberg said that he did not know of 
Schauer’s involvement in the Meese 
Committee until after he had been in­
vited. It was one of many items in 
Schauer’s 13-page resume. Steinberg did 
list that as part of Schauer’s back­
ground before he spoke. Schauer has 
been published in the areas of freedom 
of speech and the press, as well as consti­
tutional law and legal constraints on 
policy making.
Schauer praised Steinberg at the start 
of his speech for inviting someone to 
speak who disagreed with him on a major 
issue. During the course of his speech, 
Schauer said, “The likelihood of an ob­
scenity prosecution against any college 
or university ... is infinitesimal.”
There were parts of the speech that 
Steinberg agreed with and has been 
saying since this issue surfaced back in 
November. Schauer said that the best 
way to resolve this issue was through 
open communication.
Steinberg was upset with a number of 
things people have been saying about
him.
things that I have not done,’
“[It was] reported in the past that I 
appointed the [bboard] committee, I 
packed the committee [and] I would 
not let the committee issue anything 
that happened in the meeting.” This 
was incorrect. “I did not appoint the 
committee,” Steinberg claimed, “the 
President [of the University] did.”
Steinberg said that he heard about 
Schauer while at a conference of the 
First Amendment at Duke. He asked 
who would be the best person who 
could help mediate through both ex­
tremes of the argument. Steinberg said 
that everyone he talked to recom­
mended Schauer.
Immediately after the meeting, 
Schauer met with the bboard commit­
tee to discuss the situation.
A new member on the committee 
was the new Student Body President, 
Kami White, who was in attendance 
at the spe ech and atthemeeting after­
wards.
Treasurer examines president’s budget
Net Bill established to save money
ByCONALHO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University recently 
¡d up with a credit card company, 
Visa International Inc., to offer an elec­
tronic payment system on the Internet, 
®lled NetBill, which customers and mer­
chants could use to buy or sell electronic 
information.
The key faculty members involved in
* project are Marvin Sirbu, professor 
°f engineering and public policy, indus­
trial administration and electrical com­
puter engineering, and Doug Tygar, as­
sociate professor of computer science. 
"The best way to think of [NetBill] is a 
credit card for the Internet,” said Sirbu. 
Similar to using a credit card to buy 
something, you can also use this system 
10 buy things over the Internet,” he said. 
Thomas, Wagner, research program- 
Dler at the Information Networking In- 
Btitute, said “[The current situation is 
mat] if yOU wanted to buy a 10-cent 
Journal article using your credit card, 
you might end up paying Visa about 30 
Cents for the transaction and so end up 
paying more for the transaction than 
product. ... The main point of the
project is to support a transaction on the 
Internet that is low cost and high vol­
ume,” said Wagner.
“Much of the cost from these transac­
tions for a traditional credit card com­
pany comes from overlimit and collec­
tions and user fraud, and we are auto­
mating these. We get rid of the overlimits 
and collections because you don’t get 
something until your account has actu­
ally been [checked]. With current credit 
card companies, the minute someone 
calls the credit card company and some­
one picks up the customer line, it costs 
money. We try to eliminate these dis­
putes through automation,” Wagner 
said.
Sirbu says that the payment system 
tries to focus on reducing the cost of the 
transaction from 10 cents to about one 
cent.
“This is different from other [Internet 
payment systems] in that other systems 
are tied into one Internet protocol,” said 
Sirbu. For example, Netscape, a World 
Wide Web browser, allows information, 
such as credit card numbers, to be sent 
through the Internet in encrypted for­
mat.
However, that uses only one Internet
protocol, unlike NetBill, which is pro­
tocol independent.
The fir st NetBill trial will take place 
this summer at Carnegie Mellon. Stu­
dents and faculty will be able to “buy” 
journal articles from the library. How­
ever, since Carnegie Mellon has ob­
tained a site license for their articles, 
these articles will not actually be 
charged to those affiliated with the 
University, but the electronic pro­
cesses involved will be the same.
“Something that distinguishes the 
project the University is doing from 
other private companies is that we 
are paying special attention to pri­
vacy and protecting the rights of indi­
viduals.
“For example, we will create the 
possibility that a client can purchase 
a product using a pseudonym as op­
posed to a real name.... This means 
thatthe [company] that you purchased 
[an item from] cannot sell the infor­
mation [about your purchase] to an­
other company,” said Sirbu.
Sirbu said that the University is 
paying attention to controlling access 
privileges of certain information to 
certain audiences.
By MAX CHITTISTER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Student Senate again examined the 
questionable financial practices of 
former Student Body President Declan 
McCullaghatits meetingTuesday night.
At the meeting, memos were distrib­
uted by Student Body Treasurer Emma 
Gosden, concerning issues which had 
been raised since the last Senate meet­
ing. It was discovered there that 
McCullagh had been purchasing items 
from his frozen account.
One of the memos had a receipt from 
the CardXpress office which stated that 
McCullagh had re­
quested that $50 be 
transferred from the 
Student B ody Presi­
dent account, num­
ber 6-20050, to Cam­
pus Xpress. In the 
memo, the proper 
procedure for re­
questing funds in 
Campus Xpress was 
defined. An expense 
request form must 
be filled out and ap­
proved, which leads 
to authorization of a 
journal entry. Mary 
Jo Rudman later re­
ceived an authoriza- 
tion letter dated 
January 20.
Also included in 
the memo was a res­
ervation request form for the Rachel 
Mellon Walton Room. McCullagh re­
served this room for the emergency Sen­
ate meeting on February 17, in which he 
tendered his resignation. McCullagh 
attempted to pay the room reservation 
fee of $50 with funds from his frozen 
account. This attempt failed.
A second memo documented the spend­
ing which had occurred on the president’s 
account after McCullagh’s resignation. 
Four receipts were attached with dates 
of February 16 or later. A tripod and 
camcorder were rented from Instruc­
tional Technology, and a videotape was 
purchased in order for the emergency 
Senate meeting to be taped. The rented 
materials have been returned, but the 
videotape has not. Also, McCullagh pur­
chased beverages, cookies, and chairs 
for the meeting using funds from his 
frozen account. Finally, in two separate 
trips to the CMU Bookstore, McCullagh 
bought a total of six hats, a Skibo brick, 
four folders, two sweatshirts, and a book­
mark.
Apparently, it is possible for funds to 
be spent from a frozen account on the 
CMU campus itself. There is a list of 
what accounts can be spent from, but it 
is a very lengthy list, so that much of the 
time, the cashier does not check before 
completing the transaction.
Gosden said that the account balance 
as noted in February was $385.35. After 
subtracting $50 
from Campus 
Xpress, $32 from In­
dustrial Technol­
ogy, $35.55 from the 
bookstore, $95 from 
Campus Catering, 
$123.37 from the 
bookstore, and $27 
for February phone 
charges, the pro­
jected balance of the 
account as of Feb­
ruary 23 is $22.43. 
“I would like to see 
the cost of those ex­
penditures reim­
bursed to the SBP 
account,” Gosden 
said.
It should be noted 
that McCullagh 
claims that two or­
ganizations owe the account an addi­
tional $143.
However, there is a chance that there 
were further unauthorized purchases 
made in February.
The Funding and Recognition Com­
mittee is investigating some question­
able charges made by McCullagh. F&R 
Chair Merle Atkinson provided the list 
and the charges. The list consists of the 
charges made in February after the ac­
count had been frozen, the $50 in Cam­
pus Xpress, $38 for stationary on De­
cember 19, five dinners which total 
$133.62, and a $26.99 dinner at Ali Baba 
at which alcohol was purchased. These 
charges total $534.53.
McCullagh was not available for com­
ment.
Tartan File Photo
Treasurer Emma Gosden presented 
evidence that the former president spent 
money from his frozen account.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 1995THIS JUST IN
Secretary indicted in 
housing investigation
WASHINGTON, February 22 (DJ)
— The special prosecutor investigat­
ing the Reagan administration hous­
ing scandal is expected to seek an 
indictment today of former Interior 
Secretary James G. Watt, according to 
Watt’s attorney.
William Bradford Reynolds, attor­
ney for Watt, said the independent 
. counsel, Arlin Adams, planned to seek 
. charges of perjury and lying to Con- 
.gress involving Watt’s June 1989 tes­
timony on Capitol Hill about the scan­
dal.
Independent counsel Adams’ inves­
tigators have been raising questions 
about Watt’s congressional testimony 
concerning meetings with former 
Housing Secretary Samuel Pierce and 
others, according to an individual fa­
miliar with the case who declined to be 
identified by name. They also have 
been scrutinizing documents Watt 
turned over to the independent coun­
sel, the source told the Associated 
Press.
In January, Adams announced he 
would bringno charges against Samuel 
Pierce, the former secretary of hous­
ing and urban development and 
Adams’ highest-ranking target.
Adams said then that statements by 
Pierce to his investigators “coupled 
with other evidence recently made 
available” will allow continued inves­
tigation of possible perjury and ob­
struction of justice by others.
Pierce himself issued a statement 
acknowledging that, during his time 
in the Reagan cabinet, his meetings 
with friends who were lobbying for 
federal housing funds “sent signals to 
my staff that such persons should re­
ceive assistance.” Pierce specifically 
mentioned meetings with Watt and 
former Ambassador Gerald Carmen.
“These meetings and conversations, 
and my following discussions with staff 
members created the appearance that 
I endorsed my friends’ efforts,” Pierce 
wrote.
In announcing his continuing inves­
tigation, Adams noted that a number 
of the 16 convictions he has obtained 
in five years of investigation were for 
perjury and obstruction.
“The length of this investigation is 
attributable to the efforts of those who 
attempted to obstruct it,” Adams said. 
“But, as previously pledged, such ob­
struction, when uncovered, shall be 
dealt with appropriately.”
Adams’ spokeswoman, Terri 
Duggan, has refused to amplify on the 
topics of the investigation.
Watt testified before a House sub­
committee in 1989 about a meeting 
with Pierce to help businessmen ob­
tain rent subsidies. He acknowledged 
receiving a $300,000 consulting fee, 
but insisted his actions were legal and 
ethical.
Nations clash over spying
PARIS, February 22 (DJ) — France 
has accused five Americans of economic 
and political spying and asked them to 
leave the country, a rare move that put 
the allies on a diplomatic collision course.
French news reports said those ac­
cused included the top CIA official in 
Paris.
In Washington, White House spokes­
man Mike McCurry said “it remains to 
be seen” whether the Americans would 
leave. He suggested that disclosure of 
the affair was linked to France’s presi­
dential campaign, in which a wiretap­
ping scandal has embarrassed Premier 
Edouard Balladur, the front-runner.
France is seeking the “very rapid” de­
parture of the five, four of them diplo­
mats. A fifth was a non-diplomat who 
reportedly worked under cover.
Two other U.S. Embassy employees 
implicated in espionage had been sent 
home earlier, officials said.
The U.S. Embassy refused all com­
ment, but in a demonstration of the 
sensitive nature of the affair, Ambassa­
dor Pamela Harriman held an unusual 
half-hour meeting today with Balladur.
She was informed of the matter Janu­
ary 26 and was summoned two weeks 
later by the Interior Ministry when the 
embassy failed to take action, the daily 
newspaper Le Monde said.
The U.S. Embassy has been notified 
“numerous times over numerous weeks” 
that the Americans “were engaged in 
activities incompatible with the status 
under which they reside in France,” said 
a joint statement by the Foreign and 
Interior ministries.
The efforts went beyond the usual 
domain of industrial spying, often cen­
tered on the defense and aerospace in­
dustries, to target the audiovisual and 
telecommunications industries, Le 
Monde said.
1 1111
Senate hopes to pass Budget bill
WASHINGTON, February 24 (D J) — 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, R- 
Kan., said the Senate is now “within 
striking distance” of passing the bal- 
anced-budget amendment when it comes 
up for a floor vote on Tuesday.
“We believe we’re within striking dis­
tance of having the votes required,” Dole 
said during a press conference featuring 
Republicans and Democrats who sup­
port the measure. The House had previ­
ously approved the resolution.
“If bipartisanship prevails, we’ll have 
the votes,” Dole said. “We think it looks 
good right now based on what we’ve 
heard this morning.”
With yesterday’s announcements of 
support from Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., 
and Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, balanced 
budget supporters are edging closer to 
the 67 votes needed for passage.
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., said late yes­
terday he would not support the amend­
ment unless it was changed to assure 
that courts could not intervene in tax 
and spending issues.
Senate Judiciary Chairman Orrin 
Hatch, R-Utah, said he was confident 
that Nunn’s concerns could be addressed 
in the implementing legislation for the 
amendment.
“We believe Sam Nunn will be with us 
in the end,” Hatch said. “We believe 
right now he’s the 67th vote.”
Hatch said balanced budget support­
ers plan to work through the weekend to 
convince undecided Democrats to vote 
for the resolution. “We think we can get 
as many as three to four votes,” Hatch 
said.
Sen. Jim Exon, D-Neb., warned that 
should the amendment be adopted, sup­
porters will need to explain “in some 
reasonable detail what’s going to have to 
happen to get the job done,” specifically 
what must be cut and by how much to 
balance the federal budget by 2002, the 
amendment’s goal.
“The states will want to know more 
details than we’ve given them now,” 
Exon said.
U.S. to intervene in peace talks
WASHINGTON, Februaiy 23 (DJ) — 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher 
plans to return to the Middle East in 
March to try to revive peace talks be­
tween Israel and Syria and to give Pal­
estinian self-rule a boost.
Administration officials said the sched­
ule was still in preparation.
The likely stops are Egypt, Israel, 
Syria, Jordan, and also Gaza for a meet­
ing with PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat. 
Without confirming the contemplated 
five-day trip, State Department spokes­
woman Christine Shelly said Christo­
pher planned “to try to move the process 
forward.” Word about the trip is ex­
pected to be made sometime on Mon­
day, but when, specifically, isunknwon.
Israel and Syria have not held nego­
tiations for two months.
Meanwhile, Israel’s talks with the 
PLO to extend Palestinian self-rule on 
the West Bank are snagged in a spiral of 
terrorism that has dampened public 
support in Israel for a pullback.
Senator enters Presidential race
COLUMBUS, Ga., February 24 (DJ)
— Sen. Phil Gramm opened the 1996 
presidential campaign with a spirited 
denunciation of President Clinton and a 
dramatic pledge that he would balance 
the budget in four years or give up the 
White House.
The best-bankrolled of the GOP hope­
fuls, Gramm, R-Tex., portrayed himself 
as a true conservative whose adminis­
tration would provide a stark contrast to 
Clinton and the Democrats. At the start 
of a long opening-day jaunt, he told a 
boisterous crowd of supporters in Texas 
that the country must change direction 
“or we are going to lose the American 
dream.”
Gramm declared his candidacy in the 
embrace of family and supporters in his 
hometown of College Station, Texas. In 
a broad policy address, Gramm prom­
ised to end the “special privilege" of 
affirmative action and declared that he 
would never allow American troops to 
operate under U.N. command.
Four killed during Cambrige crash
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., February 22 
(DJ)—A state police helicopter crashed 
into a Harvard University boathouse 
this morning, killing at least four people.
The helicopter, traveling from east to 
west, flew over the Massachusetts Insti­
tute of Technology campus before it 
crashed into the boathouse on the hanks 
of the Charles River, witnesses said.
University officials said they believed 
the one-story, flat-roofed building was 
unoccupied at the time of the incident. 
Harvard University and state police both 
said four people died in the crash but 
could not confirm that all of the victims 
had been in the helicopter.
The chopper could be seen lying on its 
side with its tail shorn off but with both 
rotors intact.
Memorial Drive, which parallels the
river, was closed to traffic and filled win 
fire trucks. Environmental officialswei 
called in to clean up gasoline that spills 
into the river.
Dow Jones index reaches 4,000
NEW YORK, February 23 — For the 
first time in history, the Dow Jong 
industrial average has closed above the
4,000 mark. The bellwether index of 3) 
blue-chip stocks reached 4,000.30 about 
a half-hour after the start of trading 
the NYSE. Itclosedat4,003.33, up 30.28. 
This milestone was reached amid opti. 
mism in the nation’s financial markets 
generated by indications Wednesday 
from Federal Reserve Chairman i 
Greenspan that the central bank may In 
finished raising interest rates.
Clinton reviews social programs
WASHINGTON, February 24 (DJ)- 
Facing Republican opposition to affir­
mative action, President Clinton 
ordered a review of programs that 
preferential treatment to minorities. 
Clinton insisted it was “not true” that he 
was backing away from assuring equal 
opportunities to all Americans.
Still, Clinton said, “It is time to look at 
all these programs which have devel­
oped overthe last 20-to-25 years and ask 
ourselves: Do they work? Are they fair? 
Do they achieve the desired objectives?’
“We shouldn’t be defending things we 
can’t defend. It’s time to review it, de­
fend it, and be straightforward about it," 
Clinton said when asked about his deci­
sion during a news conference in Ot­
tawa, Canada.
Clinton’s call for the top-to-bottom 
review of such programs was an attempt 
to head off, or at least temper, the fierce 
GOP assault on the nation’s bedrock 
affirmative-action programs, U.S. 
rials said.
The President said he is determined 
to keep the issue out of partisan politics,
“I’m going to do my dead-level best to 
keep this from becoming another cheap, 
emotional political-wedge issue,” he said. 
“It’s not true that I’m backing off” from 
the Democratic Party’s historic support 
for programs that give minorities a break.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Edited by 
Max Cfaittister
CONNECT Inc.
CONNECT is a leader in Wide Area and Local Area Business Information Systems. We build and 
operate a range of email-enabled, distributed enterprise information applications. We are a 
venture funded start-up, and are looking for key people to join our team.
We need world class developers with strong experience in C and UNIX. Familiarity with Windows 
or Macintosh, or coursework or experience with relational databases is a plus. We also have 
openings for developers knowledgeable in network information services (WWW, SMTP, NNTP), 
and protocol and language development. People who like systems programming ,and are 
exceptional at it, will probably succeed with us.
We offer comprehensive benefits as well as equity participation (stock options). EOE. Please sign 
up for an interview with us in the Career Center, or FAX your resume to us directly at (415-254-4800). 
We will be interviewing on the CMU Campus March 9th and 10th.
Please address correspondence to:
Dorian Stonebraker, Development Coordinatior 
CONNECT Inc.
515 Ellis Street 
Mt. View, CA 94043
(415) 254-4077
Internet: DORIES@CONNECTINC.COM

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 19953
Student Senate MinutesCMU in Brief
STUDENT 
SENATE
ByCONAy LHMXIH
Meeting of 21 February 1995
was taken at 5 pm. Meeting was 
jailed to order at 5:05 pm.
Senators Present: Ardire (IM), 
Atkinson (CIT), Benowitz (HSS), Bielke 
(CIT), Demasi (MCS), Franklin (HSS), 
[-or (CIT), Gallo (HSS), Gonzalez 
(MCS), Grant (Heinz), Holzman (CIT), 
Hudson (HSS), Keir (CIT), Lin (CFA), 
jfielke (IM), Mueller (CIT), Patel (CIT), 
d (SCS), Sharpe (HSS), Studarus 
(Misc), Tuxen (CFA), White (HSS).
Senators Absent: Babyak (MCS), 
Coster(CIT), Cote(GSIA),Miller(GSIA).
Approval of the Minutes:
llinutes from 2/7 and 2/17 were ap­
proved.
Audience Participation:
Christine DeVere, student government 
president of Chatham College, spoke 
ahout the letter that had been read at 
the special meeting of February 17.
She said she was not made aware of 
the accusations against Declan 
HcCullagh when writing the letter.
Special Business:
Line of Succession for Student Body 
President:
Chair of Student Senate, Burt Holzman 
-declined office
Chair of Campus Affairs Committee, 
Brenden Mielke — declined office 
Chair of Academic Affairs Committee, 
Kami White — accepted office
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Martin Dixon): This week’s mov­
ies are: Thursday, The Advocate; Fri­
day, Spanking the Monkey, and Sunday, 
Color Me Blood Red.
There will be a lecture by Sam Chase 
on filmmaking in Doherty Hall 1112 at 
7:30 on Friday, February 24. The band 
Czar will be playing on Friday in the 
Women’s Center at 8. There will be three 
bands performingin Morewood Gardens 
on Saturday.
Student Affairs (Kevin Hughes): There 
will be a “Last Lecture” by Dr. Matzen 
on Tuesday February 28 at 5 pm in the 
Adamson Wing.
SDC (Adam Davis): Saturday’s movie is 
Stargate. This week is “SDC Days.” For 
more information about SDC, stop by 
the booth outside Doherty Hall.
Chair (Burt Holzman): Keycards will 
be available for new Senators next week.
I would like to thank Emma Gosden and 
Merle Atkinson for their hard work in 
investigating the fiscal matters concern­
ing the Student Body President. The 
next meeting will be on March 7 in the 
Adamson Wing at 5 pm.
President (Kami White): We are look­
ing into making faculty course evalua­
tions mandatory.
Treasurer (Emma Gosden): Hockey and 
the Student Body President accounts 
remain frozen.
Senate then examined the activity of 
the Student Body President’s account 
after the date on which it had been 
frozen.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Brian Mueller): No 
report.
Campus Affairs (Brenden Mielke): A
resolution about graffiti on campus will 
come up next week.
To get in touch with the committee 
with your suggestions, send email to 
campus-affairs@andrew.cmu.edu.
Funding and Recognition (Merle 
Atkinson): Four non-fundedrecognitions 
and three special allocations are coming 
up tonight.
Organizations who wish to receive 
funding must pick up a budget pack 
from the Senate Mac in the Backbone 
server. They are due back in the Drop- 
Off box by February 26. Questions should 
be addressed do ma2t.
Human Resources (Troy Benowitz): 
We are working on a Leadership Confer­
ence to be held this semester.
Public Relations (Eduardo Gonzalez): 
Meetings areheldat4:30 pm onWednes- 
days in the Senate office. We are work­
ing on getting a column in The Tartan 
every week containing interviews with 
the committee chairs. Send comments/ 
suggestions to eg2h.
New Business From Committee:
Non-Funded Recognition:
Joyful Noise 
Spic-Macay 
Bowling Club 
Circle K
Passed by acclamation
Special Allocations:
$10,000 for AB Tech 
Passed via voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 6:30 pm.
Submitted by 
BEN BOSTWICK
Edited by 
MAX CHITTISTER
Dean will resign 
as head of GSIA
The dean of the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration, Robert 
Sullivan, has announced his resigna­
tion effective at the end of the academic 
year. Sullivan has held the position since 
1991.
He is planning on returning to the 
faculty of the business school at the 
University of Texas at Austin to become 
director of the IC2 Institute. While 
Sullivan was dean, he “led GSIA through 
large-scale re-engineering of the school’s 
educational and research programs,” 
said “8 1/2" by 11" News.” During the 
last three years, GSIA’s ranking rose 
dramatically among business schools. 
There were marked improvements in 
terms of student satisfaction.
A committee will be formed to conduct 
a nationwide search for Sullivan’s suc­
cessor.
In “8 1/2" by 11" News,” President 
Robert Mehrabian said, “Bob has done 
an exceptional job in reorganizing GSIA 
and leading in the redefinition of the 
school’s vision and mission. ... While I 
am sorry to see him leave, I am grateful 
for his effort in positioning GSIA to con­
tinue the innovative directions that have 
characterized its proud tradition.”
Ex-researcher sues University
Marc Wagner, a former researcher in 
CMU’s Center for Light Microscope Im­
aging and Biotechnology, claims that he 
lost his job because he is HIV positive. 
On February 27,1995, his attorney plans 
to file a summary judgement in federal 
court, reported the newspaper Planet 
Queer.
Wagner resigned in 1992, after a meet­
ing in which Wagner claims his co-work- 
ers accused him of placing them at risk, 
and his supervisor, Dr. Alan Waggoner, 
told him that if he did not resign, the fact 
that he was HIV positive would be placed 
on his record. Wagner has filed an Ameri­
cans with Disabilities Act claim against 
CMU, claiming that they fired him be­
cause of his condition.
Waggoner said that any questions 
could be referred to the University attor­
ney. Jackie Koscelnik, the University 
lawyer, could not be reached for com­
ment. Both Wagner and his attorney, 
Jan Domzal, could not be reached for 
comment.
Corrections..
There were two mistakes in the article entitled “President announces 
resignation.” The first error concerned an alleged circumvention of the finan­
cial account director. The article said that this was making reference to the 
president using $50 to reserve the Rachel Mellon Walton Room. That was 
incorrect. The article also said that an impeachment would pass with a three- 
fifths vote. A two-thirds vote is required.
In the article named, “Role Models flourishes, tutors local students,” Maureen 
Brady was identified as a junior. She is a senior at CMU.
In last week’s “Sports Roundup,” it was reported that the CMU Rugby Club 
was ranked fifth in the country. They are actually ranked fifth in their region.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact Lauren Heinz at x8-2111, or write her in care of The Tartan.
Paid AdvertisementUnited States Presidential Curse in the 20th Century
The German Jewish Holocaust brings constant publicity while the presidential curse on Innocent 
Americans Is constantly covered up in all our media. Since Rudolph Hertz in 1895 accidentally 
invented the subliminal mind control microphone and speaker, our presidents have yearly Issued 
secret executive orders to satisfy all leaders in a dozen areas of concern of subliminal mind control. 
Many of us worry that these secret executive orders will lead to a permanent dictator as president. 
In 1942, mail censorship was added by Franklin Roosevelt. Military leaders made It a deserved 
national security issue. Men of God demanded and got a modern ugly religious inquisition, which is 
far worse than In previous history, for this harms vast numbers of innocents. This is now a pork 
barrel bureaucratic nightmare which wastes billions of tax dollars. Since business states this will be 
the advertising, marketing, and sales of the future, almost all have experimental subliminal radios 
on their properties. You have heard of subliminal radio tapes telling customers not to steal, which 
are quite successful. Increased sales are a bonus of these sublimlnals. Personnel departments are 
experimenters in training, In operation, and eliminating employees. In every war, militaries have 
used sublimlnals on their troops. Since lawyers and judges are forbidden to test subliminal mind 
control criminal cases in court, unnecessary crimes are increasing. Many victims are in mental 
hospitals, prisons, and cemeteries. Our government has caused murder, death, divorce, drugs, 
destruction, poverty, persecution, discrimination, suicide, rape, slavery, homosexuality, family sepa­
ration, and stunted, blighted lives. This “anything goes” attitude, when a mind control victim com­
mits a subliminal mind control crime, is overloading our courts, increases subliminal crime and 
harms all of us. This is one of the reasons our justice system fails. Our federal judges refuse to 
allow a court win against our postal service of mail censorship. Mail censorship grows yearly as 
victims must be denied warnings, information as this flyer, or financial help in fighting against this 
inquisition. All media must ignore this ugliness, for citizens would scream to stop it. This is a perfect 
example of our failure in education and media to teach, to inform, to warn, and expose. Subliminal 
radios trasmlt a lower radio wave (infrasonic) or a higher wave (ultrasonic) than normal sound. 
Every vibration, pitch, intensity, variation of the wave word bit in frequency strikes one's ears, which 
are fooled since no sound is heard. Your ears send these subliminal word bit waves to your brain, 
which thinks it is thinking a thought since there is no noise sound. As this radio invention advances, 
mind controllers can speak out of a person's mouth. You can't trust your own mouth as the words 
might be someone else's. It is hard to believe how much terrible grief can be caused by someone 
else speaking out of innocent mouths. For the Innocent victims, who are called paranoid 
schizophrenics, all government becomes an enemy. These innocent victims become scapegoat 
comics to be laughed at and tricked by all in justice, media, business, and all government depart­
ments. To add to our grief, we are being used as medical guinea pigs without our consent, knowl­
edge, or payment. You must complain to your man or woman of God and religion to stop this 
modern inquisition. America Is being turned into a shame and disgrace by our leaders. Our general 
decline In morality, honesty, and decency can be blamed on this stupid mess. Why Is it that I only 
complain and protest this total loss of our human rights? Please write me your thoughts of this 
presidential curse and send a copy to the White House. For your safety, please do not sign your 
name, for you can trust no one but your wallet, i.e., until they empty It. The road to hell Is paved with 
good intentions, but sadly it always ends with evil sins hurting the innocent while greedy pockets 
fortune. As usual, the lesson learned is that money is the only thing that counts. Think - for you 
might be the next victim I
Respectfully,
Robert R. Lansberry 
630 Broadway 
McKees Rocks, PA 15136
L7 fea Ltue7rs7Itaö 
m.Sa Wim USAA.
In order to maintain and strengthen our strong position amid the changing dynamics of the Property and 
Casualty business, USAA is developing large-scale strategies that are revolutionizing the information environment 
in which we serve our customers.
USAA supports its Property & Casualty division through a network of 4,000 terminals, processing millions of 
IMS transactions monthly. As we integrate innovations in systems support, outsourcing and infrastructures, we seek 
Information Technology Professionals with experience in the transition from large,host-based systems to 
client server environments or with heavy experience in client server environments.
PC Application Developers
A Bachelor's degree or high« 
Experience should include:
• Distributed Application Design
• "C" (with "C" set preferred)
• MicroFocus Cobol
in Computer Science, Engineering or Math is required.
Desirable experience includes:
» PVCS
» Artificial Intelligence 
» Decision Support Tools
* SMALLTALK Programming Language
* Rumbaugh Methodology
• GUI Screen design and development
• OS/2 Presentation Manager
• OS/2 SOM/AIX/UNIX
• APPC Coding
• Object oriented technology
United Services Automobile Association, an integrated family of companies providing insurance and financial 
products and services to officers of America's armed forces, offers a people-first orientation, superb work and 
recreation environments, a four-day week, innovative benefits and vigorous career development. The comfortable 
lifestyle of San Antonio, Texas offers easy commuting, big city amenities and one of the lowest living costs in the 
country.
If you want challenge at the leading edge, USAA is the right move, right now.
Meet USAA Representatives in The Student Center, 
Room 210, from 7pm to 9pm on Wednesday, March 8th.
AND/OR
Sign up for a March 8th Interview Schedule in the 
Career Center, Warner Hall, Room 19.

---------------------------------------------------

carnegie
mellónis your link to FUNü!
Concerts, Films,<D
O
Belly
M'r/î
. .V... .
Social Distortion 
They Might Be Giants 
John Wesley Harding 
Barbara Bailey Hutchinson
Dennis Barrie 
John Zorn 
Ramones
(D(/)VJB
(/)
¦o
<Do
£L
m
<©
D!¦+
«
uc
O”
oo
3
Offi
sm
3
u>
Be a part of the action! 
Join the!Activities Board
Pick up an application to apply for 
a board position at the Information 
Desk in the Student Center
Lectures, Special Events, Concerts, Films, Lectures
Paid for by your student activities fee
‘Breaftfast, 
Lunch, ‘Dinner - 
Hot 'Entrees, 
Vegetarian 
Entrees, Qritted 
Sandzvicfies, Stir 
fry, DeCi 
Sandzvicfies, a 
Salad ‘Bar, 
Soups, Desserts, 
(Beverages and 
Several 
Speciality 'Bars! 
find Once you 
Enter It's MC- 
'‘fou-Can-Eat!
Speciality Bar Schedule 
Omelettes to Order
Mon - Fri 9:30 am. to 4:00 pm.
Sat & Sun 10:30 am. to 4:00 pm.
Eces Cooked to Order:
All Day, Everyday.
Lunch/Dinner Bars
Wok Bar - Monday thru Friday 
Pasta Bar - Sunday thru Thursday 
Caesar Salad Bar - Sunday thru Thursday 
Taco Salad Bar - Monday thru Friday 
The Deli Bar - Monday thru Friday
Monday 2/27 Tuesday 2/28 Wednesday 3/1 Thursday 3/2 Friday 3/3 Saturday 3/4 Sunday 3/5
For More Dining Information Please Check Out the Official.cmds BB.
RrrakfastScrambled EggsHard Boiled EggsScrambled EggsScrambled EggsScrambled Eggs
CnDPCDCCDPDnCSausage LinksCom Beef HashSliced HamHard Boiled EggsSausage Links
HomefriesHashbrownsO'Brien PotatoesSliced BaconHashbrowns
PancakesFrench ToastBelgium WafflesApple FrittersPancakes
GritsOatmealCream of WheatGritsOatmeal
GrillHamburgersHamburgersHamburgersHamburgersHamburgersHamburgersHamburgers
Italian SausageHot DogsHot DogsHot DogsKnockwurstHot DogsHot Dogs
BBQ HamChicken PattiesMonte CristoSteak SandwichesClam StripsFish SandwichGrilled Cheese
Curley FriesCrisscut FriesSteak FriesSpicy FriesCurley FriesFrench FriesFrench Fries
Grilled OnionsMushroomsMushroomsGrilled PeppersMushroomsMushroomsMushrooms
Soup/ChiliMinnesota wildEgg DropGarden VegetableTurkey NoodleFish ChowderBroccoliCream of
Rice SoupSoupSoupSoupSupreme SoupTomato Soup
Vegetarian ChillZesty ChiliZesty ChiliVegetarian ChiliZesty ChiliZesty ChiliZesty Chili
LunchBeef & PotatoSpirals withSausage & ShellsStuffed PeppersChicken A LaBrunchBrunch
BBBaaBaaaaBBDPieMarinara SauceOpen FacedSpaghettiKingScrambled EggsScrambled Eggs
Baked ZitiBaked HamRoast BeefMeat SauceFettucini withHard Boiled EggsHard Boiled Eggs
Baked PotatoesCandied SweetWhipped PotatoesCut ComClam SauceHashbrownsFrench Toast
ZucchiniPotatoesBeef GravyAu GratinWhite RiceBelgian WafflesTator Tots
Cheese PizzaGreen BeansMixed VegetablesPotatoesYellow SquashCheese ShellsSausage Links
Sausage & PepperCheese PizzaCheese PizzaCheese PizzaCheese PizzaWhipped PotatoesVeg. Egg Rolls
PizzaPepperoni PizzaSausage PizzaWhite PizzaDeluxe PizzaRoast Pork LoinRoast Turkey
DinnerSwiss SteakGyrosMeat LasagnaGrilled JerkBeef RagoutBBQ ChickenCountry Fried
RagoutVegetarianItalian Style RiceChickenBurgundyBraised BeefSteak
Eggplant CheeseMoussaka& BeansCitrus SoleRoman Rice &Cheese & TomatoTurkey Broccoli
BakeGreek RiceParsley PotatoesBlack-eyed PeaBeansRice BakeDivan
Chicken BreastChopped SpinachGreen BeansJambalayaBatter FriedNoodlesCheese Tortellini
SupremeGreek SaladZuccini withBaked SweetCodCaliflowerSavory Rice
Peas & OnionsBaklavaTomatoesPotatoesWestern StyleBroccoli CutChopped Spinach
CaliflowerVeal ParmesanCut ComPork StewDinner RollsMixed Vegetables
Pittsburgh PotatoesGarlic BreadPeas & MushroomsBaby CarrotsDinner Rolls
Dinner RollsDinner RollDinner Rolls
***Menus Subject to Change Without Notice

---------------------------------------------------

Hey ... you never know
You might win the lottery 
but
You are 10,000 times more likely to get cancer
1995 Health Symposium:
Cancer
Awareness
March 7,1995 
7 pm 
Doherty Hall 2210
Refreshments will be served
Sponsored by the Doctors of Carnegie and the 
Health Professions Program
Thank Goodness Researchers Don’t Take “No” for an Answer.
^ ^ years there was no CPR to revive heart attack victims, no heart bypass surgery, 
ago... and no coronary care units.25 ago"S there was ba,loon angioplasty to open clogged arteries.15 there were no effec,ive anti-rejection drugs to help heart transplant patients.
'fi A years there was no laser angioplasty or atherectomy to remove plaque from 
Aago... arteries and no coronary stents to keep arteries open.
Heart research breakthroughs are saving lives every day. And many of them—CPR, pace­
makers, bypass surgery, new drugs, new surgical techniques — have come as a result of 
American Heart Association funding. In fact, the AHA has contributed about $1.2 billion to 
heart research since 1949.
Say “Yes” to medical progress. Give generously to support heart research.
Cl [•10
HOBEST A H E I I C A H F 0 0 0
413 South Craig Street 
681-8620
TRY US FOR LUNCH...
- Daily Lunch & Dinner Specials
- Giant Salads
- The Best Burgers in Oakland
- New Bar Munchie Menu
SUNDAY HAPPY HOUR
3 pm - 5 pm
Great Drink Special Prices
TRY US FOR DINNER...
- Hardwood Grilled Steaks and 
Chicken
- Home-Smoked Hickory Ribs
- Delicious Vegetarian Dishes and 
Low-fat Pastas
TRY OUR ALL YOU CAN EAT 
SUNDAY BRUNCH
11 am-3 pm 
$7.95 Adult 
$4.95 Child
TRY OUR BEERS...
- Beer Promotions Friday Nights with 
Giveaways
- Rotating selection of 10 Microbrews 
on tap and 20 in bottles
- Draft and bottle “Microbrews of the 
Day”
- Ladies Night - Friday Nights
HONEST AMER- ICAN
Healthy Women NeededHealthy women between the 
ages of 18 and 35 with 
regular, predictable menstrual cycles are needed for a research study at Magee- 
Womens Hospital. Participants must go off oral contraceptives one month 
prior to participation. If qualified, participants 
will receive compensation up to $200. Magee^&bmens Hospital
For more information, please call 641-5479.IKflüSMHlRr a lifetime.
U
M
M
E
R
Positions Available 
include:
Facilities Maintenance Assistant 
Facilities Team Leader 
Facilities Supervisor 
Conference Coordinator
Conference Assistant 
Linen Coordinator 
Linen Assistant 
Office Assistant
Salary range: 
$4.50-6.50
Wednesday 
March 1st
Studenasl c
Baker Hall Atrium • 8 am - 6 pm ^
Crew Apparel will be on Sale
Pick up an application 
at the 
Housing Office.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University27 February 1995
“Quality of Life” shows 
Res. Life dedication
“You think you’re stressed? I 
have two exams, a paper, a prob­
lem set, I work until eight and I 
have buggy!”
“Oh yeah, well I have ...”
The end to this conversation 
can be heard anywhere on cam­
pus, anytime of the year. 
Workload and never-ending 
stress contribute to CMU’s sta­
tus as one of the top 25 schools 
in the nation, but it also lowers 
the quality of student life and 
creates high freshman attrition 
rates. Tim Foster, Director of 
Residence Life, recognizes that 
students are not satisfied at 
CMU. Foster’s attempt to dis­
cover all the factors of why not, 
through the “Quality of Life 
Survey,” is quite commendable.
Being the first campus-wide 
survey sent to all undergradu­
ates (and providing the incen­
tive of winning a Carnegie 
Mellon captain’s chair or rock­
ing chair!) shows the importance 
Residence Life places on accu­
rately addressing survey re­
sponses. The initiative taken 
by Residence Life could be ex­
tended by each college as well 
by having optional surveys in 
how to improve academic and 
campus life.
Although “The Quality of Life 
Survey” was of an appropriate 
length, three pages, more spe­
cific questions on academic life 
and more “why” questions are 
recommended for the future. For 
example, the survey asked how 
satisfied the student is about 
housing but did not ask why the 
student was or was not satis­
fied. If Residence Life does not 
know specifically what the prob­
lem is, how can they accurately
attempt to solve it?
Improvements in the dormito­
ries will certainly help improve 
CMU’s image, however equal at­
tention should be given to other 
facets of college life. Questions 
addressing when students eat 
and sleep in order to provide 
better library and cafeteria 
hours are suggested, as well as 
questions on how to improve the 
campus’ aesthetic appearance. 
Carnegie Mellon suffers nation­
ally because of its poor “campus 
life.” Improving the appearance 
of campus itself would greatly 
enhance our appeal nationally.
Foster’s letter explained that 
the responses to the survey 
would be analyzed and the re­
sults would be shared with the 
University community through 
The Tartan. This is the first that 
The Tartan has heard of “The 
Quality of Life Survey.” Had the 
survey been better publicized it 
might have received more at­
tention from the community. We 
also dispute by whom and how 
the responses will be analyzed 
and evaluated.
In all, the initiative and con­
cern Residence Life has shown 
by distributing the “Quality of 
Life Survey” is worthy of praise. 
We hope that students will in­
vest the time to thoughtfully 
answer the questions on the sur­
vey and that Residence Life will 
accurately interpret and act on 
them. We also suggest that the 
survey be reevaluated to dis­
cover more specific concerns of 
the student body so as to more 
accurately improve the overall 
quality of life on campus. It is an 
excellent first step in improving 
campus life and satisfaction.
New Student Body 
President promising
Kami White, Humanities and 
Social Sciences sophomore, 
should be highly commended 
for stepping up to become the 
new Student Body President. It 
was clear that whomever be­
came the new president would 
inherit the office at a disadvan­
tage. We applaud Kami for her 
courage in assuming this large 
responsibility.
The situation could hardly be 
more intimidating. White will 
have to learn her duties as presi­
dent while wrestling with a 
number of problems. Because 
she is coming into the position 
midway through the presiden­
tial term, she will have to famil­
iarize herself with all of the 
programs which were started 
under former President, Declan 
McCullagh. White will have to 
choose which ones she prefers 
to continue.
White will have to get Stu­
dent Senate back to normal op­
erations after weeks of focusing 
on the questionable financial 
practices of McCullagh. Also, 
White will have to deal with the 
remnants of the budget. Ap­
proximately ten dollars remains 
for the rest of the semester. 
That’s about enough for her to 
purchase ten bookmarks with! 
Senate should definitely allow 
for a special dispensation for
Ins Piris
SUfAf
¦ftrfweii iMmbir £ 
Mum Ca/At¿M¡t.
OH "l'or
Senator hopes 
to rebuild trust
B
Litten to the Editor 
Student Cerati
Letter to 
the Editor
White. It’s hard to imagine that 
she could pass any major legis­
lation with less than ten dollars 
at her disposal.
White has proved her leader­
ship skills in her time as Aca­
demic Affairs chair with the 
Educational Facilities Commit­
tee and projects like registra­
tion reform. Perhaps her ex­
ample will encourage other 
Senators to step forward and 
take a more active role in Sen­
ate. Her proposed projects with 
the shuttle service to Squirrel 
Hill and faculty course evalua­
tions would be worthwhile 
changes that would be of great 
use to the student body.
McCullagh’s last-minute acts 
as president only served to make 
the situation worse for White. 
By attempting to dissolve com­
mittees and spending funds from 
his frozen account, McCullagh 
did nothing but add to the con­
fusion. But White will certainly 
have a tough act to follow, as 
McCullagh was an active presi­
dent who accomplished much 
during the school year.
As Student Body President, 
White will have more than her 
share ofworkto do. But with her 
past accomplishments, and the 
support of Senate and the stu­
dent body, her future as Presi­
dent can only be promising.
Editor:
Throughout the 
past month and a 
half, the student body 
as well as members 
of the faculty and 
staff have become in­
creasingly aware of the role of Student 
Government at Carnegie Mellon.
As both a member of the student body 
and a Student Senator, I have observed 
the events which have unfolded before 
us. I would like to take a moment to 
comment on them.
In the middle of January, the majority 
of the student body returned to campus. 
One week later, scandal erupted.
Charges were made by different par­
ties and the whole issue snowballed. 
From a guilty plea in a public court to 
questioning of motives to reports of fis­
cal misconduct,the Student Government 
was rocked to its very foundation.
The reason that Student Government 
was shaken goes beyond motives and 
money, but to the very core of interper­
sonal relationships — trust.
Trust does not come easily for ap­
proximately 7,500 students. Trust must 
be earned day by day, step by step.
Actions, words, and perspectives all 
are key. But trust among 7,500 students 
can be formed. And trust between the 
students and faculty can be formed. It 
happens every year, every day, every 
minute with each of us on small scale.
However, it is time to raise our trust 
to a higher scale. We must begin to trust 
in our community, in our leaders, in 
ourselves.
In order to do this we must all make a 
commitment to each other. That com­
mitment is to listen to one another, to 
work with one another, to help one an­
other.
There is no great success without great 
commitment. This great success is the 
building of a Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity community.
At present, we do not have one. That is 
the University’s greatest weakness. I 
challenge each of us to make the com­
mitment to build a community.
Let us begin to build a community of 
Carnegie Mellon University, not just 
Mellon College of Science, or Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, or 
College of Humanities and Social Sci­
ences. Let us take our greatest weak­
ness and turn it to our greatest strength.
Brenden O. Mielke 
Industrial Management 
Student Senator
Writer upset by 
coiumn response
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
Jason Togyer’s col­
umn, if such an ex­
ample of editorial in­
discretion in allowing 
a Letter to the Editor 
to be printed as a col­
umn should have that nomenclature ap­
plied, was not only a simple example of 
a personal attack, but also a clear ex­
ample of what happens when facts es­
cape people.
My column used factual data to de­
bunk the continued outpouring of left-
wing propaganda which claims that the 
Reagan years were an economic debacle.
Togyer disregards this presentation 
of factual data and claims that I’m de­
luded by “right wing propaganda.” If 
facts are propaganda then what does 
Togyer base his allegations on?
I believe he is almost startingto sound 
rather Orwellian with “facts as propa­
ganda and ignorance as strength.”
His allegations are not only un­
founded, but they are also irrelevant. 
He does not refute what I have shown 
through documented facts.
He relies on emotional tripe and im­
ages plucked from movies. If he wished 
to carry on a real discussion, I’m willing, 
but if the besthecandois the often used 
liberal line of “He just doesn’t under­
stand,” he should slink back into his 
deluded little universe.
Togyer also seems to allege that if I 
didn’t come from a blue-collar back­
ground I must be morally impure. I find 
this to be both narrow-minded and in­
tolerant.
Kegardless.my positions and the facts 
I present should be judged on the merit 
of what I’ve put forth, not on my back­
ground.
Togyer’s attempt to belittle my posi­
tions by attacks on my background, with­
out any supporting facts, is irrespon­
sible and unprofessional. I don’t under­
stand why The Tartan Editorial Board 
granted him the space to use a column 
in such a manner.
James Stepanek 
PhD Student 
MSE
Writer off-base 
on Reagan era
Student Center Room 10
part, now hurt the worker instead of 
making for a better job environment.
I can say this from both experience 
and from knowing instances where i| 
workers would have settled for just 
little less, they would have had a goo 
chance of keeping their jobs and the 
company right where it was.
Christopher M. Kovscek 
Graduate Student 
MSE
Writers ignorant 
of vegetarianism
i®Letten to the Editor 
Student Center Room 101
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I feel that I must 
respond to Jason 
Togyer’s column re- L©tt©r tO 
garding his total *. Eij|tor 
misrepresentation of 1,18,5 w 
the quality of life for 
middle and lower class people of the 
U.S. during the Reagan Administra­
tion. Yes that’s correct, the Reagan Ad­
ministration, not the Reagan and Bush 
Administration, because they were quite 
different.
Any person who takes the time and 
energy to read through the actual docu­
ments clearly will see that Stepanek’s 
observations were correct.
If Congress would not have over­
spent every year, the debt of the nation 
would have been at the very least held 
constant or it could even have been 
reduced, but Congressmen like to have 
their own little pet projects funded. 
These projects get added to a bill and 
pushed through the cracks. The total 
cost isn’t known until it’s too late.
I wonder if the globalization of the 
marketplace might have a little to do 
with the decline of living standards in 
the U.S.
The fact that foreign companies en­
tered the market in a major way for the 
first time in the early ’80s gave U.S. 
companies a lot more competition.
Also, the fact that a lot of people in the 
higher tiers of companies believed that 
they didn’t have to keep improving their 
products or processes to stay competi­
tive gave those companies economic 
troubles.
Coming from a union family, I find it 
hard to say, but unions, for the most
Editor:
Shawn Bushway 
and Joe Besselman,
PhD students in the 
Heinz School, pre­
sumably wrote to dis- 
cuss the policies 
which Matt Ball supports in his articles 
in The Tartan.
Noting that there were buffalo on the 
American plains was truly rocking, sock­
ing policy analysis.
We all know about the Amazonian 
buffalo that were devastating the rain 
forest before American beef habits 
changed land use policies in South 
America.
Of course, those Guatemalan buffalo 
were definitely worse; as they were the 
driving force behind the deforestation 
of that country. Seriously, the produc­
tion of meat consumes resources from 
energy to forests, and creates vast solid, 
liquid, and even gaseous waste.
No one can examine every facet of 
their lifestyle and conduct themselves 
in an optimal fashion in all ways. Cer­
tainly there are many good people who 
have not examined their eating habits. 
But to pretend that considering the ex­
istence of buffalo is the equivalent of 
examining the issue of meat consump­
tion is to advocate action based on will* 
fill ignorance.
Bushway and Besselman, who have 
taken advantage of tremendous educa­
tional resources, openly advocate igno­
rance on an issue as fundamental as our 
daily eating habits. As advocates 
norance, they should have had the de­
cency to allow souls who desire learn­
ing to use the educational resources 
they used.
Indeed, if their desire to learn was 
anything but shallow, grasping consum­
erism, a moment’s thought on the issue 
of vegetarianism would have enlight' 
ened them.
It is wrong to torture and murder 
creature capable of compassion, affec­
tion, and suffering because you like the 
taste of its flesh. That truth requires no 
analysis; it is self-evident.
Ball's repeated assertion of this truth; 
is not evidence of his fascist tendencies/ 
but rather illustrates thier own hostil­
ity to even minor inconveniences for 
greater justice.
Jean Camp 
Doctoral Candidate 
EPP
Parking ° University Center • Greeks • Student 
Involvment • Student Senate • Athletic Facili­
ties • WodBb’s Issues • Enrollment • Student 
Health • 0 Foot­
ball Field-*^rfH&Trt Jfflftr?*' CrÄÄitution • 
Construction • Overcrowding • Contras0 Hous­
ing • Sororities • Charities • Gymnasium 
Dining Service ° Beavis and Butt-head • ^cy­
cling • GATT ° Congress • Middle East^
V

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 19957
Campus lacks basic social etiquette skills
Patrick Hunt
The other day, as I was exiting 
the elevator on the first floor of 
Wean Hall, I was nearly flat­
tened by people who barged into 
the elevator once the doors 
popped open. Never mind that I 
trying to leave; these ruth­
less people had to cram them­
selves in immediately, or who 
knows what would happen? 
Maybe the first person to force 
their way through would decide 
nst pressing the door open 
button when the doors began to 
3, and then maybe the auto­
matic stop mechanism would fail 
to function properly, and the 
scene would turn grim as the 
arm of some unfortunate soul 
became a prisoner of the eleva­
tor war. This situation is the 
rapid decline of social etiquette.
I use the term “social etiquette” 
to describe any situation where 
more than one person interacts, 
and where the interaction is gov­
erned by an inherent and un­
spoken rule of polite conduct. 
The proper social etiquette for 
the elevator scene is that the 
exiting person has the right of 
way, while those who wish to 
enter will remain in their place 
until the exiter has completely 
exited. At that point, the people 
may enter, and press the door 
open button if they experience 
premature closure of the doors 
while others still need to enter. 
When did this effective system 
awry? It was when the prac­
tice of proper social etiquette 
began to deteriate.
The world demonstrates strik- 
lg examples of such violations 
every day, and Carnegie Mellon 
is no different. If you are still not 
believer, here is some addi­
tional misconduct that was ob­
served right on campus:
While I am on the subject of 
elevators, how about the guy who 
is securely on the elevator, who 
will not push the door open but­
ton as he watches you run to­
ward the closing of the elevator 
door.
0 The cars, particularly on 
Margaret Morrison Street, that
accelerate as you cross the street 
because you are in their way.
• The people who envelop the 
entire sidewalk when they walk 
three people wide, and expect 
you to move out of their way 
when you encounter them going 
the opposite direction. This ex­
ample of poor etiquette happened 
to me as I walked up the gray 
steps behind the student center. 
Three ROTC-garbed men com­
ing down did not want to surren­
der any ground to me, the enemy, 
who was blatantly in the way of
when it is strewn on the floor of 
the laundry room, simply because 
you were not there to remove 
your freshly cleaned clothes from 
the washer at the exact moment 
that these violators of etiquette 
wanted to wash their own clothes.
• Those of us who have the poor 
misfortune to share a bathroom 
with a person who routinely takes 
showers that last 45 minutes. 
Worse yet are those who continue 
to exhibit this amazingly poor 
etiquette after being politely 
asked, several times in specific
are available for discussion, but 
I am confident that the point I 
am making is clear: People do 
not show enough respect to their 
fellow human beings. Is the tele­
vision the cause for the decline of 
social etiquette, since the TV is 
normally the culprit ofevery det­
rimental change in today’s world? 
I doubt it, but something must 
explain the apathetic manner 
that defines social existence 
nowadays, and this explanation 
escapes me at the moment. The 
insistence on common courtesies
their objective. The violators even 
had the audacity to mumble about 
me as they walked past. I sup­
pose that I was in their way when 
I had to grab the railing to save 
myself from being run over.
• The practice of walking on 
the right side of the sidewalk or 
hallway. When people always 
walk to their right, the process of 
walking becomes much easier. 
Think of how many times that 
annoying side-step waltz move 
could be avoided if everyone 
would adhere to this unspoken 
rule of conduct.
Let me venture to the dormito­
ries to further illustrate the de­
cline of social etiquette.
• The people who live in a room 
that is 12 feet by 12 feet, but who 
have speakers with the capabil­
ity to shake the entire floor when 
the bass is turned up.
0 The people who decide that 
your clean laundry looks better
instances, to try to shorten the 
length of their showers.
And lastly, the classroom:
0 The person who cannot con­
trol their nicotine addiction dur­
ing class, and who must, at the 
expense of politeness, insert 
chewing tobacco into their 
mouths, and then repeatedly spit 
its excrement into some sort of 
container. Particularly nasty, this 
violation can last the entire class 
period, with the wonderful sounds 
of chew spit being spat resonat­
ing through the room for 50 min­
utes on end.
• Those whose feet become un­
comfortable during the class pe­
riod, and must breathe fresh air. 
I am not referring to sandals, 
simply to the practice of taking 
smelly, sweaty feet out of their 
shoes, and then placing said feet 
over a seat to display them for all.
1 am sure that many similar 
instances of poor social etiquette
Franche Gemperle/ Tartan Art Co-Editor
was an important developmen­
tal lesson for me, as I am sure it 
was for everyone who attends 
Carnegie Mellon. So why is there 
a blatant absence of such courte­
sies now that we have matured? 
I cannot claim that I am not 
guilty of some etiquette viola­
tions here and there either, but 
the collective display of poor so­
cial etiquette has reached epic 
proportions, to be cliché. Altru­
ism has recently failed, and its 
failure is justified. If I do not 
receive the same sort of courtesy 
that I give, then why should I 
continue to give it?
The critical problem revolves 
around who will start the chain 
of random polite behavior again. 
I have been the victim of random 
acts of kindness, which I see as 
more of a publicity stunt than a 
true display of behavior, but kind­
ness and courtesy, although re­
lated, are merely distant cous-
related, are merely distant cous­
ins. Senseless acts of courtesy 
will provide the first link in the 
altruistic chain, while senseless 
acts of kindness will only pro­
vide a topic for subsequent con­
versation. (Guess what someone 
did to me today...)
Social etiquette should be in­
grained into the consciousness of 
society. These acts of random 
courtesy should not be deliber­
ate, but they should be almost a 
reflex action that instinctually 
reacts to a given situation.
Find me the person who hon­
estly would want their clean 
laundry on the floor after the 
washer is through, and I’ll show 
you a person where social eti­
quette fails. The catch is: I don’t 
think that person exists. The 
Golden Rule has been proven ef­
fective, but its implementation 
has recently failed.
To regain the social etiquette, 
a voluntary attempt must be 
made by the individual to act 
according to socially courteous 
standards. But just as in any 
hobby or occupation, plenty of 
practice leads to a pattern of be­
havior that imitates instinct.
Standards for social etiquette 
no longer seems to exist, and 
these standards must be resusci­
tated. The hatred that society 
exhibits toward its other mem­
bers could be limited by the 
of social etiquette.
The family structure, and the 
environment are important as 
well, but everyone realizes that. 
What people do not to realize is 
the importance that common 
courtesy has on the welfare of 
society.
CMU is a stressful place, but 
at least some of the stress is self- 
inflicted. If each student were to 
institute a personal plan directed 
at reviving the standards of so­
cial etiquette, a great deal of 
stress could be eliminated. It is 
amazing how nice people are' 
when you are nice to them.
Our campus is a place where 
common courtesy could flourish, 
butthe practice of social etiquette 
at CMU is in decline. Unfortu­
nately, our campus is only a por­
tion of the uncourteous world. 
Try to break the trend and turn 
the rapid decline of social eti­
quette around.
Patrick Hunt is a transfer stu­
dent majoring in English.
Former president could be classified as weasel
Andrew Sproule
Our (now former) Student Body Presi­
dent, Declan McCullagh, says he resigned 
egal reasons and to finish his studies 
with a strong showing.
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. Or, more 
concisely, if he is going to flat out he, he 
should at least make it interesting and 
believable.
It would not be possible for any lie to 
be less convincing. If McCullagh said, 
“I’m resigning because robots are steal­
ing my luggage and replacing the suit­
cases with Jujubes,” people would have 
accepted it as reasonable andunderstand-
able compared to McCullagh’s reasons.
What were the reasons? One can only 
wonder.
After disturbing allegations of domes­
tic violence and odd budget transactions 
came out against McCullagh, Student 
Senate let out a collective battle cry of 
“Baaaaaaaaaah,” (almost a verbatim 
quote) and reacted like they were sitting 
in a room with the weather report being 
read to them over and over, but without 
the amount of excitement that would 
generate.
However, public anger started build-
ing and because of his reaction to the 
charges, it seemed safe to classify 
McCullagh in the weasel family.
McCullagh responded to accusations 
in the stately manner of someone with 
a law degree involved in politics. He 
said he couldn’t respond to allegations 
because of legal reasons.
Surprising he didn’t say he couldn’t 
respond to the allegations because he 
wanted to do really well in school. 
McCullagh did say the charges were 
politically motivated. He may have 
Please see WEB, page 8
Carnival is fast approach- 
lng and which band should 
play for Carnival is being 
discussed. What band do 
you think should play for
Carnival?
Dan Bruce 
Freshman 
Art
“They Might Be Giants, or 
Vanillalce... Ithink they’d work 
out really well. Maybe Menudo 
would come!”
Tucker Christan
Sophomore
Drama
“I know R.E.M.’s out... but 
maybe Stone Temple Pilots? I 
want something meaty this 
year.”
Seth Frank 
Sophomore 
IDS
“Sonic Youth.”
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Pablo Mayrgundter
Freshman
CS
“Sepultura.”
THETARTAN
Camegle Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
News Ed.................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor.....Kristine Hinrlchs
Sports Editor.... Matthew Solitro 
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney 
Jonmlchael L.T. Moy
Div. Editor........Paul Tabachneck
Calendar Ed......Roula Abdel-Baki
Dossier Dsgn. Ed. Brackett Horne 
Dossier Lit. Ed... Adriane Seibert 
Acting Art Co-Eds.Gabrien Symons 
Franclne Gemperle
Photo Editor...................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr..........Derek Wahila
Personnel Mgr.........Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr....................Eric Strauss
Systems Mgr..........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed........Max Chlttister
Asst. Forum Ed. ... Lee Abernathy 
Asst. Sports Editor.. Paul Boothe
Asst. Div. Ed......Natalie Wochele
Asst. Prod. Mgr...............Kathy Liu
Photo Staff Mgr...........David Perry
Contributing Editors 
Samuel Greenfield, Abby Schiff, 
Andrew Sproule, Jason Togyer
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, John Biggs, Andrew 
McDermott
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovltz, Jason Andracki, Eric 
Applewhite, Steven Burns, Darren 
Chiapetta, Carey Clevenger, 
Mahua Dutta, Dan Goldwasser, 
Anuj Gupta, Michelle Hall, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heiniein, Vladimir 
Labeikovsky, Laura McClure, 
David Osorio, Suzanne Paddock, 
Ronak Singhal, Jon Slenk, James 
Stepanek, Lance Thomas, Bill 
Vandermark, Sharmila Venkat- 
asubban, Dawn Wallhausen, Su­
san Watson, John Weber, Heather 
Zindle, Corey Zlnn
Art
Justin Carroll, Mark Eggert, Amy 
Haupl, Jen Zieserl
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunsklll, Nick 
Casclato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Christopher Nelson, 
Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal,TusharDubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, Kerry 
Hagan, Janet Lee, Pat Prasangslt, 
Jason Siegendorf, Jackson Tam, 
Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, MargaretStailings, 
Jen Urso
Production 
Christine Brill, Vernon Harmon, 
Esther Jiménez, Lester Manzano, 
Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Victor Ortega, Katie 
Swango
Copy
Lori Bowes, Shira Feldman, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee 
Hairston, Winter Mason, Diane 
Ohm, Ed Siavishak, Richard 
Smolen, Roger Wang, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chintan 
Shah
Junior Staff 
Ido Ben-Shachar, Christy L. 
Callahan, Tricla Davis, Beth 
Gariano, Michael Gartland, Conal 
Ho, Patrick Hunt, Sameer Kareem, 
Adam Klivans, Tim Knlveton, David 
Koran, Richard S. Lubell, April C. 
Moate, Nicole Poisson, Sudhlr 
Reddy, Emily Rosenthal, Aaron 
Welsberg
Tho Tartan Is tho student newspaper of Coméelo Mellon Untorsity. It Is 
o weekly newspaper published by students during tho (ail and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the UnVerslty community. It Is " 
printed by Western Pennsytranla Printing, Inc, Subscriptions oro avail- ' able for the semester or academic year. Tho edltorlab appearing at tho ' 
be tinning of tho opinion scctlon ore tho official opinion of Tho Tartan 
editorial boord. Columns ond potUcal cartoons ore tho opinions of ’ 
Individual creators. Tho Tartan reserves tho right to rejcct or condense 
any column or political cartoon. Letters to tho Editor are opinions of 
authors who arc usually, but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter Intended for publication mua be signed and Indudo ' 
tho writer's address and phono number for verification, llames moy bo 
withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requests that letters be no longer 
than 500 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright O 1995 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy It deems unfit for 
publication.
Office! Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 263-2111
Mailir« address: The Tartan/Bo» 17/Cameglo Mellon University/Pitts-
burgh. PA 15213-3890Funded In part by your /ctMties Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISStl«: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan « Carnegie Mellon University » 27 February 1995
Web of deceit spun by former President disrupts order
FORMER, from page 8
what. I have little doubt about the 
charges being true; however, I question 
the motivation of Donna Riley.
Riley has made a name for herself by 
bringing charges against people she 
doesn’t like and it is hard to believe, the 
way the story was brought to the public, 
that there wasn’t some political 
sashaying being done.
So, maybe McCullagh did speak some 
truth.
In the end, it seems McCullagh couldn’t
help but let his true nature shine out 
like a beacon. He announced an emer­
gency Senate meeting without telling 
anyone the real reason of the meeting, 
his resignation.
At the meeting, he gave out Presiden­
tial awards that included brass medal­
lions which he claimed to have paid for 
out of his own pocket.
McCullagh didn’t mention how he 
paid for the other awards. After his 
resignation was official, it came to light 
that he paid for these awards from his
account, which had been frozen. In es­
sence, he embezzled the dough.
He left the office budget, after only a 
little more than one semester passed, 
with approximately 23 dollars (it started 
at 3,000 dollars). With everything that 
McCullagh has done, he has proven 
himself to be perfect political fodder.
Not all of the people involved with 
Senate acted like sheep.
Emma Gosden, student body trea­
surer, was the most prepared and ratio­
nal of anyone and deserves acclaim for
how she dealt with the financial prob­
lem.
Senators Brendan Mielke and Merle 
Atkinson were the loudest voices asking 
the right questions and it would be­
hoove other senators to learn from their 
examples.
McCullagh is gone and Kami White is 
going to take over the position.
What little I know about White could 
fill a postage stamp; however, I have 
little doubt that she has more integrity 
and honor in a piece of her hair than
McCullagh had in his whole body.
Andrew Sproulewasgoing to start 
column with a quote from Win. 
Churchill; however, a few problems 
vented that from happening. First, 
quote could not be found anywher 
the face of the planet and sect 
Churchill was often referred toasWir 
Anybody who willingly lets themst 
be called something as silly as 
couldn’t have possibly said anyti 
worth quoting.
Campus issues should raise domestic violence consciousness
Michelle Hall
In 1984, Tracey Thurman was 
beaten and stabbed nearly to 
death by her ex-husband. A po­
lice officer sat in his car across 
the street and watched, making 
no attempt to stop the attack. 
Today, Thurman is alive, but 
maimed. Thurman’s attack was 
the landmark case that brought a 
revolutionary change in how do­
mestic violence is viewed by law 
enforcement officials and the 
courts.
An incidence of domestic vio­
lence occurs once every 12 sec­
onds. Between 1967 and 1973, 
17,500 women and children were 
the victims of domestic violence. 
In 1991, more than 21,000 do­
mestic assaults, rapes, and mur­
ders were reported every week. 
Seventy percent of batterers beat 
not only their partner, but also 
the children living in the house­
hold. Until the Thurman case, 
when women accused their 
spouses and lovers of domestic
violence, they were taunted and 
harassed by police officers, judges 
and by society in general. With 
such statistics, I wonder how 
many lives the Thurman case 
saved.
Domestic violence has hit close 
to home at CMU with the domes­
tic violence charges filed against 
former Student Government 
President Declan McCullagh by 
Donna Riley and Crystal Trexel. 
What interests me most, how­
ever, is not whether or not 
McCullagh is guilty of the al­
leged crimes, but how his situa­
tion raises questions about do­
mestic violence, its nature and 
its treatment that, as students, 
we are unlikely to have consid­
ered before.
What is domestic violence? 
Spouse abuse, conjugal violence, 
marital aggression, partner 
abuse, familial dysfunction, spou­
sal dissonance — all have been 
used to describe how a person 
inflicts physical harm upon some­
one with which he or she is in­
volved in a domestic relationship. 
But what do they mean? And 
what, precisely, is a domestic re­
lationship? “Spouse abuse” is con­
sidered a crime in itself, separate 
from the assault and battery
charges most often filed by vic­
tims of domestic violence. “Part­
ner abuse” is a nod to the gay 
community, a supposed recogni­
tion of the violence that occurs 
within homosexual relationships. 
Familial dysfunction is vague, as 
is spousal dissonance and mari­
tal aggression. The very inad-
come a long way in our aware­
ness of the number of incidents 
and severity of violence within 
the home. Historically, what hap­
pened inside your house was pri­
vate business and of no concern 
to the courts. English common 
law made husband and wife le­
gally one entity. Husbands were
“Husbands were held legally respon­
sible for their wives' actions and 
could punish them...”
equacy of the terms used to de­
scribe these crimes makes me 
wonder domestic violence is de­
termined. Can missing child sup­
port payments be called domestic 
violence? If you get into an argu­
ment with your spouse and hurl a 
string of obscenities at him or 
her, does that constitute domes­
tic violence? Certainly, in cases 
like Thurman’s, there is no ques­
tion. McCullagh’s case, however, 
leaves me wondering.
The manner in which domestic 
violence is often downplayed in 
the arena of criminal acts dis­
turbs me. Undoubtedly, we’ve
held legally responsible for their 
wives’ actions and could punish 
them for whatever the husband 
deemed was unacceptable behav­
ior. It wasn’t until 1853 that En­
glish courts mandated a six- 
month jail term for abuse of 
spouse and children under 14. 
And it wasn’t until the 1970s 
that the U.S. implemented the 
Domestic Abuse Prevention Acts.
Most of us are within the ages 
of 17 and 23. Few of us are mar­
ried, though many of us may find 
ourselves existing in a “domes­
tic” relationship with someone 
else. We look at our girlfriends
and boyfriends and perhaps we 
find it impossible to imagine them 
acting in a violent manner. That’s 
probably what Thurman thought 
when she married. The contro­
versy and sometimes confusion 
surrounding the issue of domes­
tic violence leaves me a lot of 
questions. McCullagh’s situation 
also leaves a lot up to specula­
tion, but it raises an awareness, 
a knowledge that we, at our age, 
are not untouched by the horrors 
of domestic violence. Thurman 
was in love when she married 
her husband, and the possibility 
of his beating and stabbing her to 
near death most likely never en­
tered her mind. It most likely 
will never enter our minds. We 
shouldn’t all be suddenly suspi­
cious of our significant others, or 
shy away from newinvolvements, 
yet I believe we should be 
cognitent that domestic violence 
happens, and every 12 seconds it 
happens to people our age. What 
can we do to stop it? Advocate 
protection, prevention, and pun­
ishment, but most importantly, 
stay awake.
McCullagh’s case brought the 
reality of domestic violence into 
our consciousness and we must 
think about it. Our lives might
someday depend on it.
Michelle Hall is a junior ere. 
ative writing major.
PARIS 
MADRID 
MOSCOW 
TEL AVIV 
TOKYO 
MEXICO C.
$209
$249
$259
$335
$419
$195
Fares are each way based on a round trip purchase from Pittsburgh. Student or Fac­ulty ID may be required. Taxes & surcharges not included. Fares subject to change.
FREE "Student Travels” 
magazine!
('•'rrn'in
Traw^
118Meyran Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 683-1881
What are the first two hundred Microsoft employees doing right now?
TRILOGY
Probably anything they want to do.
You were 12 years old when Microsoft was founded — 
you have no excuse for allowing the opportunity to pass you by again...
Spe ceialBuespnu Bi:u£sLsnMooo Is Bui :ssLidB y£ Bui y£2pdBeMo So /uaB7
Our patented technology is unparalleled in the indus­
try. Our revolutionary applications utilize data from 
manufacturing, engineering, and marketing at the point 
of sale, empowering sales people to sell consultatively 
and drive revenue.
We are one of the only companies implementing true 
three-tiered client-servers. Our object-oriented tech­
nology and multiprocessing capabilities are setting the 
standards for speed, scaleability and maintainablity. 
Because Trilogy's mission is to develop the coolest 
technology in the world, our product suite expands 
quarterly with breakthrough technologies developed 
af Trilogy.
At Trilogy, you will be working on the leading edge 
of high tech with the most advanced technologies. 
You will be developing the products that will create 
the software industry of the next century. You will 
be working with the most powerful companies in the 
world to re-engineer business processes enterprise 
wide. You will be working in the coolest company 
in the world.
With just over 100 people, Trilogy is one of the fastest 
growing companies in the country. In the five years 
since our founding, Trilogy has established itself as the 
next major force in enterprise software. Our Enterprise 
Sales and Marketing system is "changing the way 
business is done" C Wall Street Journal) in companies like 
Boeing, AT&T, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and American 
Airlines.
.„«or«.*»"
Student Center, Room 210
Kefreshments vWH be served!
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE SEND EMAIL TO ALEXA.LANGE@TRILOGY.COM
6034 WEST COURTYARD DRIVE, SUITE 130, AUSTIN, TEXAS, 78730, (512) 794-5900, FAX (512) 794-8900
v

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89. Issue 18_________________________________________________________The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 27 February 1995
Hockey club edged out by IUP in semis
By eric APPLEWHITE & COREY ZINN
Tartan Staffwriters
CMU lost a heartbreaker to the Indiana Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania, 8-7, in the semi-final round 
of the Western Pennsylvania College Hockey Asso­
ciation playoffs Saturday evening. The game was 
characterized by back-and-forth action and highs 
lows for both teams, but CMU could not hang 
pn to advance to the championship game.
CMU stormed out of the box early in the first 
'period and jumped to a 1-0 lead when sophomore 
phenom Ray Ardire tipped a shot from the point by 
freshman defenseman Bryan Campo. Sophomore 
Jim Buck also assisted on the goal. IUP rallied 
with two quick goals to take the lead, 2-1.
CMU looked lethargic, letting IUP break into the 
zone unchallenged and take long-range shots on 
1. Several minutes later, senior Dan Kodesh 
scored a nice, blue-collar goal as he backhanded 
Ardire’s pass into the net while falling to the ice. 
'Campo recorded his second assist of the night on 
¡this crucial tying goal. The team’s excitement didn’t 
last very long as IUP finished the period strong and 
added two more goals to take the lead, 4-2.
CMU scored quickly to start the second period, 
•when Ardire added his second goal of the night, 
assisted by sophomore defenseman Chris Adukaitis 
sophomore goaltender Jon Kliegman. Once 
in, IUP stole CMU’s momentum by scoring 
minutes later to take another two-goal lead, 5—3.
After playing somewhat anemically, CMU received junior Roger Maddalena rifled a wrist shot into the 
a much-needed spark from gritty play by the third upper part of the net to tie the game, assisted by 
line. While receiving a vicious check, junior Sean senior John Cardillo and freshman defenseman
Paul Voulgaris. CMU
capped off their amaz­
ing rally by taking the 
lead 6-5 with 30 sec­
onds remaining in the 
second period. Ardire 
completed yet an­
other hat trick, as­
sisted by senior 
defenseman P.J. 
Mann and Irvin. 
CMU went to the 
locker room with this
6-5 lead and a new 
confidence believing 
they could win this 
tight, back-and-forth 
game. Coach Fred 
Maddalena said be­
tween the second and 
third periods, “It’s ri­
diculous how close
Tartan File Photo
Freshman Scott Fitzgerald (#2) chucks the puck up ice during last week’s win over 
Allegheny, putting CMU into the semi-final game against IUP.
Odell sent a pass to a rushing freshman Scott 
Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald broke into the zone and sent 
a nice cross-ice pass to senior Dave Irvin, who fired 
a wrist shot past IUP’s goalie to cut IUP’s lead to 
one goal.
Suddenly, CMU had new life. Minutes later,
these two teams are.”
Ridiculous, indeed. And the third period saw an 
IUP comeback similar to CMUs rally of the second 
period. IUP scored three unanswered goals to 
regain the lead, 8-6. While this comeback was in 
progress for IUP, Cardillo received a 10-minute
misconduct on a very questionable call. The re­
mainder of the period was characterized by more 
questionable calls and mental mistakes by tKe 
Tartans.
IUP’s rally was given new life when CMU’s 
captain (Cardillo), most physical defenseman 
(Adukaitis), and most prolific scorer (Ardire) were 
all in the penalty box at the same time. Even 
though Adukaitis’ and Ardire’s penalties were co­
incidental and CMU was not shorthanded, the loss 
of these three talented players for those minutes 
really hurt the Tartans.
CMU, however, refused to give in. After return­
ing from the box, Ardire, with CMU on the power 
play, took a centering pass from Maddalena to cut 
IUP’s lead to one goal with three minutes remain­
ing in the game. Buck added another assist on this 
goal. CMU frantically tried to tie the game in the 
remaining minutes, but IUP’s defense was strong 
and didn’t allow the Tartans to record any shots on 
net the remainder of the game.
When asked to comment after the game, Coach 
Maddalena said, “There is no best team in the 
league. There are seven good teams, and we’re one 
of them.” He then added, “We lived by one-goal 
games all year. It’s unfortunate that we lost by one 
in the playoffs. We’re a good team, and it’s sad to 
end this way.”
The team wishes to thank all the fans who 
supported them throughout the season. The play­
ers felt that the fans really made a difference.Basketball teams finish off ’94-’95 season
Tartans break even in UAA competition
By VERNON HARMON
Special to the Tartan
The CMU men’s basketball team 
extended their winning streak to three 
games on Saturday with an 84-70 
le win over the University of Roch- 
¦ester Yellowjackets to finish out the 
season with a 7-7 record in the UAA 
rnd a 14-11 record overall.
Junior Kevin Byrne tied CMUs sea- 
on high for 3-pointer, as he hit five on 
¦his way to a 22- point game. Byrne also 
had four assists, one block and a team- 
high 12 rebounds. Junior J on Blanciak 
contributed with 19 points, 11 boards 
a block while Bodnar chimed in 
with 16 points of his own. Junior Gregg 
Lassan played only 14 minutes but 
made the most of them with 11 points 
and seven rebounds. Senior Steve 
Athanas, playing the final game of his 
collegiate career, had 10 points, shoot­
ing 3-for-6 from the floor, including 
his only 3-point attempt, and 3-for-4 
from the foul line. Athanas also dished 
out five assists.
Earlier in the season, the Tartans 
iad lost at Rochester 77-64 in their 
second game back from the winter 
ik. This time around CMU was 
riding a two-game winning streak, 
including an emotional 77-75 over­
time win at Emory which clinched a 
winning season for the Tartans. CMU 
opened the game looking energized, 
moving the ball well and storming the 
hoards. The Tartans and Yellowjackets 
traded buckets early on but then CMU 
went on a 14—0 tear, making it 18—4 
with 14:10 remaining in the first half. 
Rochester finally broke CMUs scor­
ing streak when Jamar Milsap hit two 
free throws. Soon after, Milsap con­
verted on a sloppy-looking allez-oop to 
ce it 19-8 before the two teams 
traded 3-pointers. After Lassan took 
Ms third trip in a minute to the free- 
throw line, both teams settled down 
and the Tartans began to pull ahead. 
CMU finished their dominantfirsthalf 
with a 44-29 lead. The Tartans shot 
52 percent from the floor, 62 percent
from the free-throw line and 44 per­
cent from 3-point range, while the 
Yellowjackets hit only 36 percent of 
their field goal attempts, 59 percent of 
their free throws and were 2-of-10 
from three-point land. CMU also out- 
rebounded Rochester 27—10 as Byrne 
was a force on the boards, nearly out- 
rebounding the entire Rochester squad 
himself with nine rebounds.
Rochester opened the second half 
with a slam dunk by Milsap to cut the 
lead to 13 and send a message that 
this half would not be as lopsided as 
the first. CMU hit back-to-back 3- 
pointers to stretch their lead to 19 but 
the Yellowjackets rallied back with 
some3-pointers of their own to get the 
lead back down to nine. After CMU 
and Rochester traded buckets, junior 
Eric Ronzio got his first points of the 
game on a 3-pointer that sparked a 
9-0 CMU run. This run contained what 
was possibly the most humorous play 
of the game.
After being on the receiving end of a 
number of allez-oops this season, the 
Tartans had practiced the play all 
week, hoping to get Athanas, in his 
final game, to execute a nice pass to 
Blanciak for the slam. With 10:00 re- 
mainingin the game, the opportunity 
presented itself.
Unfortunately, Athanas was off the 
mark as his pass clipped the rim and it 
was all Blanciak could do to get a 
handle on the ball before missing the 
slam. Lassan was there for the put- 
back, though, and the Tartans and 
their fans got a good chuckle out of the 
ill-fated attempt. Rochester then cut 
the lead back to 12 on the strength of 
Milsap’s shooting, making it 68—56 
with 6:07 remaining.
Both teams stepped up their defen­
sive play and no points were scored for 
the next minute and a half until Bodnar 
was fouled hard after driving the right 
baseline and attempting a lay-up. 
Bodnar hit his first free-throw and 
missed his second but was awarded a 
third shot when Rochester’s Greg 
Haskins was called for a lane viola-
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Junior Jon Blainciak reaches for the sky 
as he lays in a bucket for the Tartans in 
their 84-70 win over Rochester.
tion. Bodnar sank it to extend CMU’s 
lead to 14, the eventual margin of vic­
tory. The teams traded jumpers and 
free-throws for the rest of the game 
and, fittingly, it was Byrne who closed 
out the scoring with two free-throws.
The Tartans’ 7-7 199^-1995 UAA 
record does not qualify them for post­
season play.
Women end with a victory
By STEVEN BURNS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon women’s basket­
ball team closed out their season on Satur­
day with an exciting 53-50 overtime win 
against the Yellowjackets of the Univer­
sity of Rochester.
The Tartans grabbed the early lead and 
showed impressive outside shooting early 
on in the game. Sophomore Tracy Coalter 
nailed a 3-pointer to 
put the Tartans up
11-6 withl 3:00 in the 
first half, and the Tar­
tans kept the pres­
sure on to expandt heir 
lead to 16-8 midway through 
the first half.
Rochester did not let the Tar­
tans early success shake them, 
and the Yellowj ackets put together an 11-
2 run over the next eight minutes to take 
a 19-18 lead. The lead was short-lived as 
freshman Katie O’Leary knocked one in to 
close out the scoring in the first half and 
put the Tartans in the locker room with a 
one-point lead.
The second half started out with a quick 
Tartan bucket by sophomore Kristin 
Kupfer and a 3-pointer by sopho­
more Kelly Gaitens, but Roches­
ter again was not discouraged.
They fought back and tied the 
game up at 38-38.
From this point the score kept 
going back and forth with the Tar­
tans forcing the ball inside to sopho­
more Rebecca McCadney for most of 
their scoring punch.
With seconds left the Tartans found 
themselves down 45-43. They 
brought the ball down the court 
and utilized crisp passes to 
open up sophomore Penny 
Summerville for a 
jumper which tied the 
score at 45—45 with 
five seconds left.
Prior to that shot,
Summerville had 
missed ten straight 
shots.
The Yellowjackets failed to score in the 
time remaining, and the game went into 
overtime.
Carnegie Mellon controlled most of the 
extra period. Key steals by Kupfer kept 
Rochester from gaining any momentum, 
and Summerville hit three of four free 
throw opportunities to give the Tartans 
the win.
Gaitens led the Tartans with 13 points 
and 12 rebounds. Summerville and 
McCadney each added 10 points 
and 10 rebounds, 
while O’Leary 
added nine points f J 
and 10 rebounds.
The win brought the 
Tartans’ overall record 
to 8-17, and to 3-11 in 
the UAA.
The win also gave the 
Tartans a chance to send 
their seniors off with a 
win. They will be losing 
Christina Isaly and 
co-captain Jenny 
Gretz, who has 
been out with an 
injury since 
mid-sea-
*
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Freshman Katie O’Leary stretches over a Rochester defender 
as she drives to the hoop and tosses up a shot In the Tartans' 
win over the Yellowjackets on Friday.
Track team completes preparations for UAA Championships
By DAVID OSORIO
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon men’s and 
Women’s track and field teams are on 
their way to compete in the UAA Indoor 
Championships this upcoming weekend. 
Coach Gary Meckley and Coach Dario 
Donatelli expressed strong hopes for a 
solid performance in the meet.
Meckley stated that “I have good hopes 
0r team, even though we’ve only had 
Jhe chance to participate in four meets 
Prepare for the UAA Championships 
' we usually compete in eight to 12 
Dleets. Our indoor facilities are not ad- 
eciuate, primarily because we don’t have 
511 indoor track to practice on. We prac­
tice at Pitt when we can, or at Robert 
Morris. Our pole vaulters have had to 
make an hour’s journey several times 
during the week to practice at Slippery 
Rock.”
The UAA championships will be held 
at Brandeis University in Boston. 
Meckley expressed confidence in the 
performance of his team. Senior Jason 
Grusky, who threw the shot put for 47 
feet 5 inches at the meet in Slippery 
Rock last weekend, is a contender to 
place high in the Championships. Se­
nior Phil Beck showed promise this sea­
son in mastering the pole vault event. 
Meckley believes that freshman Peter 
Hunt, who high jumped 6 feet 4 1/2 
inches, will be able to place fourth or
better this weekend. The hurdling team 
is young but strong, made up by fresh­
man Jeffery Jones, sophomore Jordan 
Hopkins, and junior Zack Conley. 
Meckley stated that “we will be fairly 
competitive.”
The women’s team could also be fairly 
competitive in the upcoming weekend’s 
competition. Donatelli said that “I have 
a few kids who I believe can do very well. 
We do not have enough team members 
placing to rank high as a team, but we 
have a good chance in the events that we 
will be participating in. We seem to fan- 
much better during the outdoor season 
because our indoor facilities are not ex­
actly conducive to performing excellently 
at the meets. Pm looking forward to the
outdoor season because we will be able 
to be much more competitive.”
Junior Missy Baustert, the defending 
champion for the 800-meter event, will 
compete in this event again this year 
with the hope of defending her title. 
Sophomore Vonquitra Bebee set school 
records this year in the 55-meter dash— 
she set a record in the 200-meter run 
last year — and she is expected to place 
in both this year. Sophomore Becky 
Bucheit will be competing in the 3,000- 
meter and 5,000-meter events. Donatelli 
expressed confidence in her placing in 
these events. Donatelli also believes that 
junior Sangita Jinwala, running the 
1,500-meter event this year, will place 
at least among the top six in the compe­
tition.
Freshman Jessica Connolly, although 
unable to compete in any of the four 
meets her team has had this year be­
cause of her participation on the basket­
ball team, shows great promise to do 
well in the long jump and the triple 
jump. Sophomore Leslie Brown had her 
best throw in the shot put this season. 
She shows to be very competitive for this 
year’s meet, having placed sixth in this 
event last year.
Donatelli believes that “we can do a 
fairly good job in the individual events 
this year but that will not be enough to 
place high as a team because we lack 
outdoor events like the javelin, the dis­
cus, and the hammer that we excel at.”

---------------------------------------------------

P R I N C I P I. \i S of SOUND R li T I R li M K NT I N V 1Í STING
F
or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we 
recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs arc tax- 
deferred annuities designed to help build additional 
assets — money that can help make the dilference 
between living and living well after your working years 
are over.
Contributions to your SRAs a 
your salary on a pre-tax basis. That I 
current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes 
right away. What’s more, any earnings on3'our SRAs 
are also tax-deferred until 3'ou receive them as income. 
That can make a big dilference in how painful your tax 
bill is eveiyyear.
jj Ensuring the future
As the nation’s largest retirement system, we offer 
a wide range of allocation choices—from TIAA's 
traditional annuity, with its guarantees of principal 
and interest, to the seven diversified investment 
accounts of CREF’s variable annuity. What’s more, 
our expenses are veiy low,° which means more of 
your money goes toward improving your future 
financial health.
To find out more, call our planning specialists at 
1 800 842-2888. We’ll send you a complete SRA 
information kit, plus a free slide-calculator that shows 
you how much SRAs can lower your taxes.
Call today—it couldn’t hurt.
for those who shape it.5*1
"Stanihrd ci P,w\> In.mmnce Ilutinq Aiuily.'L<, 1994; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., Upper-Direct,w‘AiiiilylicitlUiihi, 1994 (Quarterly). CREF 
certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. For more complete information, including charges and 
expenses, call 1 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.
Ô 1995 Teacber.’ Iivurance and Aitiwily AjMniation /College Retirement Equities Fund.
HOW TO GET YOUR JOLLIES 
AT COLLEGE 24 HOURS A DAY.
Open a tab at a diner.
Belgian waffles and cheese fries with gravy 
are delicious, regardless of the hour.
Visit a local court of law.
Plenty of seating, unique conversation and 
drama that improves the later it gets.
Be the gym night janitor.
Work out at your leisure and never wait 
in line for lat pulldowns or the erg.
Get a Citibank Classic card.
For your peace of mind, operators are 
on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
WE’RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU.
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.
CITIBANC®
¦JLni
1 CITIBANK}
¦J ¿SmCi 'artn aátaá.
00X2
© 1995 Citibank (South Dakota). NA
.LI OComiL coiIsiSpu
Theirs. Ours.
It started with a vision about propelling business into the information age. Then took off with the world’s first relational database. It’s now a two 
billion-dollar, enterprise-wide software solutions company that keeps growing at about 25% a year—with new products, bold technological strategies and 
a big head start down the information superhighway. There’s nothing to do here but grow. You either make history, or become it.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer • Technical Analyst • Consultant • Product Manager
We’ll be on campus March 8 & 9. E-mail your resume TODAY!
ORACLE
Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: lslynn@us.oracle.com / FAX; 415-506-1073 / PHONE; 415-506-6991
f t

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 1995
plow HonestLy! is a weekly column where 
¡¡ric and Corey discuss, and argue,their 
views on topics in the NHL. This week, they 
Jiscuss the colors of the NHL — uniforms, 
mascots, nicknames, etc. You know, the 
Important stuff!
COREY: Well, of course I have to start 
oUt with the Pens, being an avid fan and 
all. You gotta love the black and gold—the 
colors of champions! At first I didn’t like 
lie new Penguin on the front of the home 
erseys when they changed a couple of 
years ago, but I have grown to like it. 
ERIC: Let me talk about the Pens! 
What’s up with that new logo, anyway? It 
more like an attack hummingbird 
than a penguin. I can tell you one thing: 
Jieir mascot, Iceburgh, is about as friendly 
rabid wolverine.
Last season, my roommate and I went to 
the Caps and Pens play in the playoffs. 
While there, Iceburgh put my friend Dan 
ji a headlock and hit him in the head. He 
ad us out as the only two Caps fans in 
¡he building, and came to make fun of us. 
So we played along and made fun of him
Fans discuss mascots, jerseys of the NHL
Now HonestLy!
We wiln ottbprglxp k ,dipe ulmm
too, but he just flipped out! I’m warning 
’ya, that Iceburgh is a maniac!
COREY: Fine, fine. So Iceburgh isn’t 
the most amiable mascot. But on with the 
show. How about those goalie masks? 
They sure are getting artistic, aren’t they? 
I especially like the Sharks’ and the Pan­
thers’, with ferocious wide-open jaws 
ready to swallow up pucks, and oppo­
nents. And I like the Sharks’ 
jerseys as well, with the 
shark ripping the 
hockey stick to shreds.
ERIC: What the 
hell is a Nordique, 
anyway? And how 
about that nice, red 
lump they have on 
their jersey. What 
is it, some crude at­
tempt to make the 
letter N, or an ig­
loo, or what? Ca­
nadian teams have lots 
of enigmatic names. What 
about the Maple Leafs?
Does foliage even 
qualify to be a mas­
cot? And what about 
the Canucks? I don’t 
even want to go 
there — it sounds 
like something you 
need to be 21 or older 
to do!
COREY: I have often wondered about 
the Nordiques and the Maple Leafs my­
self. Here’s another for you: the St. Louis
Blues. Now, I like small doses ofthe blues 
(music, that is), but what kind of name is 
the Blues for a sports team? It does not 
have a very positive connotation. There 
are certain teams that I think have very 
good names: the Kings, the Devils, and 
the
ridiculous] that a professional sports team 
was named after a Disney movie; but hey, 
I guess it worked!
ERIC: For my part, I have trouble 
respecting a team named after water­
fowl, no matter how Mighty they are. But 
I think it would have been cool if the 
[North] Stars had become the Lone 
Stars in their move to Texas. 
COREY: And then there are 
the Whalers. I often see where 
their uniforms rank up there 
among the least-liked, but I re­
ally don’t think they’re all that 
bad. The big W on the chest is 
better than the blue note of the 
Blues.
ERIC: In the end, if you’ve 
been following a team and are a 
fan of hockey, it won’t matter 
what jerseys the team wears or 
what their mascot looks like. 
You’ll still love 'em! That’s what’s 
great about the game.
COREY: I couldn’t agree 
more, and all I have to add is lets 
go Pens!
ERIC: Whatever!
Eric is a senior psychology I 
philosophy major, who is con­
sidering starting a hockey team 
called the Mighty Erics to help 
pay for tuition.
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Staff Corey is a senior MSE / econ 
to name a few. But the Ducks? Although major who thinks that the Mighty Erics 
I guess Disney hit paydirt with the mer- jerseys wouldn’t make Eric enough money 
chandise, I still think it’s hilarious [and to pay for his lunch, let alone his tuition.
Greg Louganls, U.S. Olympic diving 
gold medal winner, says he has AIDS 
and was HIV-positive when he com­
peted in the 1988 Olympics, ABC re­
ported Wednesday night. Louganis, 35, 
the first man to sweep diving gold 
medals at consecutive Olympics and 
considered the greatest Olympic diver 
of all time, made his admission in an 
interview on ABC’s 20/20 Friday night.
He told ABC he was HIV-positive 
when he hit his head in a diving compe­
tition and bled in a pool during the 
1988 Seoul Olympics. He also says 
that his head was stitched up by a 
doctor who did not know his condition 
and was not wearing gloves. Louganis 
said he was too terrified to tell the 
doctor although his coach and a small 
group of others knew his secret.
He said he learned he was HlV-posi- 
tive about six months before the 1988 ’ 
Olympics. He immediately went on the i 
powerful drug AZT, taking it every four 
hours, and was using it when he com­
peted in the games.
Push practice for buggy starts this 
Monday for all sweepstakes organiza­
tions. Push practice will occur each 
weekenight until the start of Spring 
Carnival.
Freerolls will continue to happen 
during weekend mornings until the start 
of Carnival..
Renowned Tigers' skipper mistreated by Detroit front office
Suicide Squeeze
byAnuj Gupta
The ridiculous length of this strike 
las initiated many a debate. Whether it 
re arbitration rights, players salaries, 
itc., there appears to be only one 
overarching theme of the Major League 
Baseball strike — there are no right or 
wrongs. Everything is seen from a very 
subjective point of view.
From a personal perspective, I refrain 
Tom the nebulous discussions which 
the strike has prompted. But when a
situation arises where the work stop­
page is hurting not only an entire orga­
nization, but the entire sport and all its 
tradition as well, I feel that it is time to 
get my two cents in.
The situation is a grisly one, and it has 
to do with one of the most storied fran­
chises in the history of baseball — the 
Detroit Tigers. The manager of the Ti­
gers, Sparky Anderson, has decided that 
he will not manage replacement play­
ers. The organizational response to this 
was that Anderson has no guarantee of 
having a job once the strike is over.
The Tigers have a history of bad ethi­
cal practices towards some of their most 
loyal employees. In 1991, after coming 
off an injury plagued season, the Tigers 
decided to not offer Jack Morris (the 
pitcher with the most wins in the 1980s) 
a contract. They weren’t even so gra­
cious as to say goodbye to a pitcher who 
was the key ingredient in the 1984 World
Championship team.
In 1993, after one of the longest and 
most distinguished careers in the busi­
ness of broadcasting, the Tigers let go of 
Ernie Harwell. The reason was unknown 
to not only Harwell, but all of his admir­
ing fans as well. But this just tops it all 
off.
Over the past several years, the Ti­
gers, who were the winningest team of 
the previous decade, have slipped to the 
second division. Aside from a few names 
which only avid baseball fans would 
know (Cecil Fielder, Travis Fryman), 
the only distinguishing feature which 
the Tigers have possessed, aside from 
the stadium, has been Anderson. He 
has defined baseball in the ‘motor city 
not only over the past several years, but 
since the late 1970’s when he took over 
the helm of the Tigers.
He has managed possibly the greatest 
team of the past 15 years (1984 Tigers)
and possibly the worst (1989 Tigers). He 
nurtured the careers of Morris, Kirk 
Gibson, Allan Trammell, Lou Whitaker, 
and it was his genius that decided to try 
a nobody named Cecil Fielder in the 
summer of 1989. He has also managed 
some of the worst players of the 1980s, 
including Steve Searcy and Johnny 
Grubb.
Anderson stands 26 victories from 
becoming third on the all time win list, 
and he is the only man to win a World 
Series title in both leagues. He is the 
only man to lead two different teams in 
all-time wins (Tigers and Cincinnati 
Reds).
The point is that he has done and seen 
everything and put in his time. He has 
too much respect for the game and ac­
cording to him, “I cannot bargain my 
integrity. I will not tarnish the game.” 
Those are words of a man who takes 
chances to protect that. He understands
that baseball stands above all else and if 
saving the pride of the game means the 
end of this career, he accepts that fact.
A man of his stature, who has proved 
himself time and time again has the 
right to walk away from the disgrace 
that baseball has brought upon itself. 
This would not be acceptable behavior 
from other major league managers, for 
most of them have not reached a position 
in their careers where they can be con­
sidered ambassadors of the game.
The Tigers have made more mistakes 
over the past five years than Carnegie 
Mellon has in the design of it buildings 
over the past 20 years. But the release of: 
Sparky Anderson will not only bring a 
deserving dark cloud over Tiger Town, 
but will also be one of the sorriest days in i 
the history of the game.
Anuj Gupta is a junior policy and 
management major.
Number one teams keep losing
Below the Rim
by Darren Chiapetta
There’s a new number one in 
National Collegiate Athletic As­
sociation (NCAA) basketball this 
UCLA, last week’s number 
wo, moves up one notch (I feel 
like Casey Kasem) after top- 
ranked Kansas lost to Oklahoma. 
Kansas took over from Connecti­
cut, who took over from North 
Carolina, who took overfrom Mas­
sachusetts.
College basketball is a lot like 
Casey’s Top 40” this season. 
There have been eight new num­
ber one teams this season, and 
ve in the last five weeks.
It all started with Arkansas, 
ist year’s national champ. The 
Kazorbacks started the season 
number one and held that rank­
ing for two weeks.
They then lost to UMass in the 
TipOffClassic, whichbumpedthe 
ttnutemen up to numéro uno. 
The hit parade was underway.
After UMass lost to Kansas the 
next week, North Carolina as­
sumed the position, followed by 
UMass again, North Carolina 
again, UConn, Kansas, and now 
ÜCLA.
For the last month or so num­
bers one through five had been 
UMass, UConn, North Carolina, 
UCLA and Kansas, in different 
orders.
As stable as the top five has 
“een, though, the top spot has 
Ranged hands more often than a
pair of bowling shoes Cl know, 
bowling shoes change feet, but 
you get the idea), and it seems to 
happen every year. It drives me 
nuts. Why do number one teams 
so often lose late in the season?
First, boredom. The top teams 
have won all year, and their spots 
in the NCAA tournament are 
locked up. Many just cruise 
through the last part of the regu­
lar season, figuring they’ll be 
able to pick up the intensity 
come tournament time.
Second, many times the 
teams they’re playing are 
on the NCAA“bubble.”Vic- 
tories over highly-ranked 
teams carry weight with 
tournament selection com­
mittee members, so the 
fringe teams step it up two 
extra notches when they 
play the top teams.
Third, the league 
season is in its sec­
ond cycle and as they 
say, familiarity 
breeds contempt.
I’m not sure what that 
cliché has to do with 
the point I’m trying to 
make, but it’s one that 
uses a form of the 
word familiar, so I 
threw it in.
What I’m saying 
is that you tend 
to see more 
upsets as ^ 
teams meet 
for the second 
time, because 
it’s more difficult 
to beat a team that 
knows what they’re 
up against than a 
team you’re playing 
for the first time.
Fourth, and see if you &
can follow this one: Everybody’s 
gotta lose sometime.
This season has been somewhat 
different, though. Even though 
number ones keep falling, they 
haven’t fallen far, and they’re not 
losing to bad teams — the teams 
that have beaten the past four 
number ones are all currently in 
the Top 25, and two have spent 
time in the Top 10, including 
Maryland, currently 
number seven.
Of course, any 
time the top- 
ranked team 
loses, it’s an up­
set, and even 
though number 
ones are losing to 
good teams, they’re 
still losing.
What’s my point? I’m not 
sure.
Maybe we should abolish 
this number one ranking— 
it doesn’t matter.
If it was like football, 
which has no national play­
off, I’d say keep it.
But it isn’t, and since the 
NCAA tournament became 
the official college basket­
ball championship a few de­
cades ago, no N CAA touma- 
ment winner has been 
ranked lower than number 
one in the season-ending 
poll.
Nah, it wouldn’t be fun 
without a number one. No 
one would rush the court 
after beating the top- 
ranked team if there was 
no top-ranked team.
Darren Chiappetta 
is a sophomore En­
glish major who can­
not wait until March.
classified
ADOPTION
Adoption - A loving choice.
We can offer your precious 
baby our hearts, the sun, 
moons, stars and financial 
security. Very sensitive to all 
issues surrounding adoption. 
Call Doug Sc Tracy to see if 
this is the right choice for 
you. All allowable expenses 
paid. 1-800-440-6024.
HOUSING
Summer and fall rental.
Shadyside one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close 
to campus. On campus 
shuttle bus route. Close to 
shopping. Very clean and 
spotless. Private bathrooms 
and kitchens. Spacious 
bookshelves. Roomy closets. 
Very secure apartment 
buildings. From $235. Call 
683-0776.
North Oakland/Shadyside
Free Heat! Move into your 
freshly painted 1 or 2 bed­
room unfurnished apart­
ment. Your apartment will 
feature a spacious floor plan, 
intercom, extra storage, & 
laundry facilities, One
bedroom start at $435 and 2 
bedroom at $535. All utilities 
included, call now! 361-6160
JOBS
Starr's Escort is hiring exotic
dancer models St masseuse. 
Earn $75-100 / hour. Call 
344-2676
Mailing Products— Easy 
work St easy pay. Send SASE 
to: INTL, 2221 Peachtree 
Road N.E., Suite D-415, 
Atlanta, GA 30309.
Wanted: Personal Assistant.
Attractive, intelligent coed 
wanted by attractive, gener­
ous SWPM for light house­
keeping, errands, travel, etc. 
734-8422.
SERVICES
Natasha's- Vintage St new
designer bridal gowns and 
accessories. Fabulous prices. 
551 Beaver Street, Sewickly. 
(412)-741-9484. Mon - Sat. 
10-5 pm.
JRAVEL
Fly Dirt Cheap! Caribbean/ 
Mexico $189 R/T. Europe 
$169. Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219- 
7000. info@aerotech.com.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words.........$8.00 / wk
51-100 words.......$11.00/wk
•Classifieds must be paid in , 
cash or by check before the 
first-scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by 
journal transfer with a valid 
account number.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication. ;
Mail to:
The Tartan 
Box17
Carnegie Mellon Univeristy. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 1995
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director — Mike 
Mastroianni, X8-2214; Assistant Direc­
tor— Mike Grzywinski, 683-2938; In­
tramural Secretary — Michelle Matta, 
x8-2053; President — Jim Saxon, x2- 
3872; Women’s President — Amy 
Watchom, X2-2629; Vice President — 
Matt Williams, X2-2490
DATES OF IMPORTANCE
Tuesday, February 28 — IM Board 
meeting, 4:30.
Wednesday, March 1 — Basketball 
Playoffs begin.
Thursday, March 2— Entries due by 
4:30: Co-Rec & Team Badminton, 3 on 
3 Basketball, Foul Shooting and 3- 
Point Shoot Out.
Thursday March 9 — “IM Night" - 
Basketball Championships.
BASKETBALL
The intramural basketball season 
completes its regular season action on 
Tuesday February 28. On Wednesday 
March 1 the playoffs will begin and 
conclude on Intramural Night, Thursday 
March 9th. All teams should call the 
intramural office (xS-2214) after 9:30 
am on Wednesday March 1.
The Minors playoffs will take the first- 
and second-place finishers into the 
NCAA tournament and all third place 
finishers (except all of those divisions 
that have a 3-way tie for first) into the 
separate NIT tournament.
The majors and women's divisions 
will take the top six teams into the 
playoffs with the first and second place 
finishers receiving byes, and the inter­
mediates will take the top three finish­
ers from each division into the playoffs.
The Intramural department reminds 
all playoff teams that it is there respon­
sibility to check on game times and that 
playoff games will not be rescheduled. 
Here is the basketball rankings head­
ing into the playoffs.
MINORS
1 Beta lomma lota (4-0)
2 CM Magic (3-0)
3 DU (4-0)
4 Barbara's Men (3-0)
5 Buck’s Bricks (4-0)
6 Electric Deadbolts (4-0)
1NIERMEDJAIE
1 Panthers (6-0)
2 Renegades(5-1)
3 Beta Young Guns2 (5-0)
4 SAE (5-1)
5 ECE Lightening (4-1)
MAJORS
1 GSIA (6-0)
2 BETA (6-1)
3 NAVY (4-2)
4 PKT Agongs (4-2)
5 Unknowns (3-3)
WOMEN
1 Team Shreal (5-0)
2 Bulletproof Soul (4-1)
3 Soccer Babes (4-2)
4 Dario's Girls (3-2)
5 Kappa/DG (4-2)
WATER BASKETBALL
The intramural water basketball sea­
son is underway. Teams are reminded 
that starting March 1 the entry Into the 
pool will be the outside back door. The 
first phase of the gym renovation will be 
the locker rooms so the locker rooms 
will be closed. Please dress accord­
ingly!
FLOOR HOCKEY
Please check the Intramural bulletin 
board for schedule updates.
IM BOARD MEETING
The Intramural board meeting will be 
held this Tuesday, February 28, at 4:30 
in the IM office. If there are any ques­
tions please call the IM office at x8- 
2214.
GYM RENOVATION
Beginning March 1, the first phase of 
the gym renovation will begin. All intra­
mural participants are reminded to fol­
low the signs through the gym into the 
Main Gym or into Thistle Hall.
The main entrance Into the gym will 
be changed. All Intramural participants 
should enter the building through the 
lower entry near the comer of Tech 
Street and Margaret Morrison.
All Intramural water basketball par­
ticipants should enterthe pool through 
the back door that goes directly into the 
swimming pool.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Lacrosse club struggles against WVU
By SUDHER REDDY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon’s Lacrosse Club 
team suffered a difficult loss on the road 
Saturday at West Virginia University 
19-4.
The team struggled by not playing 
good defense and playing inconsistent 
offense. Sophomore Aaron Ralston said, 
“They just crushed us. Our defense 
wasn’t playing together especially in 
the first half.”
Although the Tartans scored the first 
goal, they failed to scored again in the 
first half. The WVU Mountaineers took 
advantage of the fast break opportuni­
ties and mid-field turnovers to score 18 
goals in the first half.
“Their fast break opportunities really 
gave them the inside shot and scattered 
our defense in the first half. The turn­
overs disrupted our play and kept our
defense off-guard,” said Ralston.'“We 
couldn’t get set throughout the half. Al­
though games average 40 to 50 turnovers in 
a game it’s important to gain possession or 
the course of the game will turn against us. 
We weren’t able to do that in the first half 
especially in the middle of the field.”
Severe disadvantages also kept the Tar­
tans from playing consistent. The 45-man 
roster of the Mountaineers outpaced the 17 
members of the Tartans. Ralston also said 
that the young Tartans faced a WVU team 
packed with a lot of great individual stars.
Tartans improved their play in the second 
half and let the Mountaineers score only 
once. Playing better as a team, the Tartans 
managed to get more turnovers and more 
scoring opportunities. With better offensive 
control, they scored three more goals. Goals 
were scored by graduate student Robert 
John Sechan, senior Rishi Kumar, and fresh­
man Derek Jander.
Ralston said that the success in the sec-
said.
ond half was due to the great play of Delaware, and Pennsylvania, 
sophomore goalie Jason Elizaitis. “He “Thegamesaren’trealintense^dwe1 
played well and was one of the main justreallyhappytohostatoumamenta^ 
reasons why WVU scored only one goal,” show people we have a team,” Ralsttl 
he said.
In addition, Elizaitis 
said, “I was more alert 
in the second half and 
the defense helped me 
out a lot.”
The Tartans are off 
for the next three weeks 
and will play next in 
the Pittsburgh Shoot­
out. The Shoot-out is a 
tournament jointly 
hosted by the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh and 
Carnegie Mellon. Ap­
proximately 12 teams 
are scheduled to play 
from New York, West 
Virginia, Maryland,
Tartan file phc(
The Tartans had difficulty controlling the ball In the first hi( 
leading to 18 unanswered goals by West Virginia.
big impact in Tartan hoopsSeniors made
By VERNON HARMON
Special to the Tartan
Jenny Gretz
“Obviously, this 
wouldn’t be the way 
I’d write the ending 
to a 15-year career,” 
says senior Jenny 
Gretz. Obviously not.
After seeing signifi­
cant playing time in 
each of her four years 
on the basketball 
team and starting the 
last two, she broke a 
bone in her foot 13 
games into her final 
season. At the time, 
she was averaging 
28.8 minutes per 
game, 13.3 points per game and 5.4 rebounds per game 
and the team was 6-7. They finished 8-17.
“I got kicked in a game by a girl. I was playing defense, 
denying my girl the ball, she was going toward the ball 
and we just collided. It was just the kind of kick you get 
in every game.” However, this kick put her out for the 
remainder of her senior year.
“It’s not like you could say to a freshman or a sopho­
more ‘Well, there’s next year.’ [It was] very frustrating 
and it doesn’t really help much when I get comments 
from other people — I guess they’re supposed to be 
consoling comments,” said Gretz. “Especially when 
they’ll say Tou were having such a great year,’ ‘what 
would’ve happened if... ?’ ”
To her credit, Gretz never wrote off this season. “She 
came to every practice,” said Coach Gerri Seidl, “and sat 
with the cast on and when we could get her in a passing 
drill, she did it. We tried to still keep her involved. She 
did what she could do on the bench. I mean, when 
someone comes out of the game, she’s talking to her, 
taking on a kind of coaching role. She could just sit and 
cheer or she could do nothing. She could just sit on the 
bench, but she instead chose to still be a part of it and 
do what she could do. I give her a lot of credit for that. 
I’m really proud of her for maturing in that way. And 
she should feel very good about herself for those reasons 
alone. To never give in to that desire to just feel sorry for 
yourself, which is so easy to do.”
The 5'9" Gretz was born and raised in Columbus, 
Ohio as the youngest of six children. She attended 
Bishop Hartley High School where she earned 10 var­
sity letters, four in softball, three in basketball, two in 
volleyball and one in tennis. She received an academic 
scholarship to Xavier University and a softball scholar­
ship to Notre Dame, but decided to come to CMU 
instead.
“I decided to go for basketball because my softball 
teams have always been very good and the basketball 
teams were always so-so. I wanted to play for a team 
that was good because I’d never had that really good 
basketball team but I did in softball. I was recruited by, 
among other schools, Wash. U. and Chicago. I visited 
CMU when I was a senior, stayed the night and met a 
lot of the players. I really enjoyed the team.”
Here at CMU, Gretz has lettered for four years in 
basketball and track (her event is the javelin throw) as 
well as maintaining a 3.0 QPA in her double-major, 
policy and management and psychology, in preparation 
for law school.
She says she enjoyed CMU. “There was a lot of fun 
stuff, but there were a lot of things I didn’t care for. As 
far as basketball goes, I enjoyed that. I’ve made a lot of 
friends and that’s something that can’t be taken away 
even if I can’t play.”
Gretz says that at this point in her life, “the one thing 
that I’m most proud of is that I will be the sixth and final 
child in my family to have graduated from college, 
something that both of my parents had always wanted. 
I’m also proud of this when coupled with the fact that I 
will graduate with two degrees and eight varsity let­
ters.”
“Some teachers and administrators in my high school 
said I wouldn’t get into CMU and some of the other 
schools I applied to, let alone graduate with two degrees 
while playing two varsity sports for four years. I love 
when people doubt me, and I am able to prove them 
wrong.”
Gretz plans to begin studying criminal law next year 
and to eventually become a practicing attorney in Ohio.
Steve Athanas
“Hard work pays off” is something we hear often but 
rarely do we see it in action. However, CMU senior Steve 
Athanas is living, breathing proof of it. Athanas, a 5'11", 
170-lb. IM major from Manchester-by-the-Sea, Massa­
chusetts, earned 10 varsity letters at Manchester High 
School — four in basketball, three in football and three 
in baseball. He was the Manchester MVP and an all-star 
selection in all three sports in his senior year, despite his 
claim that he “was equally inept in all three.” Then he 
was recruited by Coach Tony Wingen to play basketball 
for CMU.
“The first time I met Steve ... I liked him personally 
right from the start. He’s got a tremendous personality 
and I knew he would fit in well with the rest of our 
players. In terms of his playing ability, I knew he had to 
do some work, and every summer he got better. If we had 
12 guys that worked as hard in the off-season and as 
hard every day in practice as Steve does... we would win 
a whole lot more games. He’s been a real asset to our 
program. He’s a tremendous guy. I’m gonna miss him.”
In his freshman year, Athanas saw only junior varsity 
action but he worked hard in practices and in his sopho­
more year, he began to get some “garbage time” in the 
varsity games (six points, four assists in a total of 31 
minutes in eight games). He continued to work hard in 
the off-season and played in every game his junior year, 
averaging 12 minutes per game and tallying 38 assists, 
33 points and 12 steals. Then between his junior and 
senior years, he had his “most significant improvement,” 
according to Wingen. “Usually guys don’t go home after 
their junior year and bust their tail but he did. I was 
always amazed at how much better he was [in the fall] 
than he was when he went home.”
“I did work hard over the summers,” Steve admits, 
“and I think that’s the one thing I had going for me 
coming into this year ... that I have improved every 
year.”
This year, Athanas was named captain and has been 
the starting point guard in every game for CMU. He has 
averaged 32 minutes per game, 11.5 points per game, 
has shot 44 percent from the floor and 77 percent from 
the free-throw line and has dished out a team-leading 
111 assists. “Being able to stick through basketball for 
four years is something that I’m proud of, just because it 
wasn’t going so well from the start,” said Athanus. “It’s 
great this year that everything has been worth it be­
cause I’ve had an unbelievable year... Everything’s been 
worth it. Even the times sitting on the bench weren’t 
tough.”
“Just playing for a team sport, it’s something that I 
love to do because other people count on [me] and I can 
count on other people. I think I was there for my team­
mates, as well as them being there for me, throughout 
the entire year and the entire four years.”
Now that he’s moving on, Steve has a warning for the 
UAA “Nextyear’s team loses one starter andno minutes 
off the bench. I think they’re gonna be tough.”
Steve says he has “no regrets” about coming to CMU. 
“This was the only place I got recruited to play basket­
ball. I was recruited to play football in a couple of other 
small places. CMU was the place where I could come and 
get a quality education as well as continue to play 
basketball, which is what I wanted to do at that point in 
time.”
Even the lack of fan support didn’t bother him. “I never 
played because of big crowds and thought I was big man 
on campus,” he says. “I played for my teammates, my 
coach and myself and that’s basically it. The fact that 
there’s only-100 people in the stands, it gets to you at 
times, but for the most part it doesn’t really bother me.
And if it does bother 
you, then coming here 
is a big, big mistake.” 
So what does the 
future hold for 
Athanas? “I was look­
ing at maybe a man­
agement consulting 
job or something like 
that. I’m really not 
sure at all. I’d like to 
go back home, stay in 
Pittsburgh or maybe 
get in the DC area.” 
One thing’s for sure, 
wherever he goes and 
whatever he decides 
to do, Steve Athanas 
Vineet Agarwal/Tartan Photographer will give it all he’s got.
Christina Isaly
The fourth time was the charm for 5'8" senior Chris, 
tina Isaly. After earning 12 varsity letters, for soccer 
(four), basketball (four), softball (three) and lacrosse 
(one), at Trinity High School in New York City, Isaly had 
been unable to play both soccer and basketball in the 
same year here at CMU. She attributes much of the 
problem to the coaches and the year-round dedication 
they demand from their players. “It’s unfortunate that 
the two coaches [couldn’t] collaborate,” she says, “[butjif 
makes sense because you have to have a certain dedica­
tion to [play a sport] and when you’re splitting it up, it 
takes away from both.”
So Isal^s soccer obligations carried into the basketball 
season each of her first three years, keeping her from 
playing both sports. But not this year.
With this year’s basketball team, Isaly saw action in 
16 games, averaging 10.1 minutes, 1.6 points, and 3,5 
rebounds per game and shooting 31 percent from the 
floor. Not exactly stellar numbers for a senior, but it was 
quite an accomplishment for Isaly, who hadn’t played 
basketball since high school.
“The basketball season is something that I’m really, 
really happy with. I didn’t expect it to be as great as it 
was, for me personally,” said Isaly. “It’s unfortunate 
that it couldn’t have come together, in terms of the team, 
but personally, it just agreed with everything that I’ve 
put into sports and everything in... my whole life. It was 
about playing. It wasn’t about for who, or for what 
reason, it was just to 
go out and to be com­
petitive.”
“The situation was 
just so conducive to 
[learning]. Coach 
Seidl [said] ‘if you 
work hard and you 
hustle, then you’ll 
learn a lot. ’ I guess the 
most important thing 
that I learned [this 
season] was that 
pretty much applies to 
anything.”
It seems that what 
Isaly got out of the
basketball season was Vineet Agarwal/Tartan Photographer ex&ctly what ghe
brought to it. According to Seidl, “One of the biggest 
ways she helped us was when she stepped on the court, 
she brought an energy level, an enthusiasm, and a desire 
to just want do it. And she brought us... a maturity level 
She wasn’t an intimidated freshman or sophomore. She 
was a strong senior. She might not have had all the skills 
behind her, but she certainly had the maturity.” 
That maturity wasn’t quick in coming. Isaly took a 
leave of absence in the spring semester of her freshman 
year because she was having trouble acclimating to 
college life, but she returned in the fall to play soccer. “At 
that point I thought ‘I’m leaving Carnegie Mellon. I can’t 
stand it. They won’t let me do what I want to do.’ And 
then they created this degree [Bachelor of Humanities 
and the Arts].”
Once Isaly had found a major that suited her, she 
settled into college life. She also came to the realization 
that sports had become more of a love than anything 
else. “It’s become something I’m just impassioned about, 
she said. “It’s like a drug almost.”
She discovered her true love for sports this past sum* 
mer while she worked out. “I had a huge realization that 
it wasn’t... because my coaches wanted me to play or..- 
because my parents liked to watch me play, it was just 
that ‘this is something I love to do.’ ”
It’s not much of a surprise that one of the reasons 
Christina came to CMU was to play soccer,and she 
started for four years. She totaled 22 goals and nine 
assists in four seasons. She wrapped up her CMU career 
by earning All-UAA second team honors. Coach Jul'8 
Shackford called Isaly “instrumental to the women» 
soccer program at CMU.”
Isaly said that if it weren’t for sports, her life at CP 
“really would have been terrible. It was just such a gi'eat 
way to be able to be a student and be an athlete and also 
to know your limits, whereas without it, it’s a real tos* 
up. You [can] miss... the small things, like appreciating 
your roommate’s work as an artist or an architect, * 
pianist or whatever. I would see myself totally missinl 
all of that if it hadn’t been for [sports], because I wouN 
have just been hanging out, socializing, and not getting 
as much as I can out of every day.”
(

---------------------------------------------------

olume 89, Issue 18 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 27 February 1995
sunshine promises to coax CMU 
students out of hibernation
T T¥ TT% Tni Ein Hiarai3|ii raraLIVllSVj
'MU students explore neighborhoods
Warm weather brings campus to life
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Coming from Florida, the land 
of sunshine and eternal summer 
bliss, I often find myself wonder­
ing what Pittsburgh does when 
the ice melts and the sun comes 
out. What do they do during that, 
oh say, month and a half at the 
most here on the CMU campus?
Flabbergasted at the change in 
weather, Mike Bree’s first incli­
nation is to praise God that it 
isn’t snowing anymore. “When 
the weather gets warm, I 
pray,” said Bree, a sophomore 
computer science major. “It’s im­
portant that we give thanks for 
such a miracle.”
After the long winter, most stu­
dents feel uplifted by the warm 
weather. Widespread changes in 
attitudes occur throughout the 
campus as they come out of hi­
bernation. Feeling more social, 
freshman art major Adrian 
Gottlieb catches with old friends, 
as well as finding the time to 
make new ones.
“I try to spend time sitting out­
side and shooting the shit,” he 
said, something he is not moti­
vated to do when the weather is 
blue. Along those same lines, 
Arlette Buckley, a freshman voice 
major, takes in the warmth by 
organizing small excursions to 
Schenley Park. “I call up my 
friends and go for walk or pic­
nics,” she said.
It seems that Schenley is a 
popular place during the spring, 
as many students flock there to 
escape the pressure of school and 
appreciate. “Watchingthe people
games or other contact sports. 
“It’s a really good workout, a 
change from the daily aerobics 
class. Afterwards I take my 
clothes off and treat myself to a 
cold shower.”
Eager to spend time in the sun, 
Pat Walsh, a junior civil engi­
neering major, tries to incorpo­
rate one of his favorite pastimes, 
ballroom dancing, into the great 
outdoors. “I do the Viennese 
Waltz, across the cut. In that way 
I can double the fun,” he said.
One springtime activity ofMike 
Bahe, a junior applied history 
major, is shooting. “Shooting at 
what?” I asked. “At targets,” he 
replied.
Taking advantage of the green­
ery around town, some students 
really so stop to smell the flowers 
in the spring. “I look at the gar­
dens in Shadyside,” said Ursula 
Hanff, a sophomore biology ma­
jor.
Despite what anyone says, 
spring is a cause for excitement 
in Stacey Reed’s life. “I get a bad 
case of spring fever. It’s probably 
in response to the banality of 
winter,” said Reed, a freshman 
H&SS student.
There are some who are too 
busy even for spring, such as 
Michèle Mellott, a junior psychol­
ogy major. “To be quite honest, 
I’m always studying. I don’t no­
tice the change in weather,” she 
said.
Maybe most people in Pitts­
burgh disregard nice weather as 
only a figment of their imagina­
tions. Hopefully, the reality of 
our fantasies of the sounds and 
smells of spring are just around 
the comer.
go by, I sit outside and read,” said 
Winter Mason, a freshman phys­
ics major, “but mainly I just 
smoke.” Which, in fact, isn’t all 
too different to what he does when 
it’s cold as well.
“I just hang outside and chill,” 
said Mel Jones, a sophomore in­
formation systems major, letting 
spring imprint itself on her soul.
Spring inspires the athlète in 
us all, as many students break 
out the running shoes and soccer
«0
'l|Wi .
Gabrian Symons/Tartan Art Co-Editor
balls in the spring, wanting to be 
productive while relishing in the 
heat. “When it’s nice out, I wear 
shorts and play volleyball on the 
cut,‘said Eric Borts, a freshmen 
electrical and computer engineer­
ing major.
“I try to go for a run ... until a 
bug bites me,” said Stephen Lew, 
an H&SS student. I suppose 
springhas it’s drawbacks for some 
of us.
Trying her hand at a new type 
of sport, sophomore chemical en­
gineering major Sabina Jindal 
joins all male pick-up soccer
Gabrlen Symons/Tartan Art Co-Editor
? MICHELLE HALL
irtan Staffwriter
As the air begins to get warmer, CMU 
Indents are emerging from the hiber- 
ation imposed on them by the unpre- 
¡ctable and often frigid weather.
With spring approaching slowly but 
piely, students are venturingfrom cam- 
js to enjoy Pittsburgh’s parks, shops, 
Bd restaurants.
1 like to go walking in Schenley Park 
ken if s warm,” said Ying Chen, a fresh- 
lan double major in psychology and 
iology.
Chen, who is a member of the gospel 
nd a capella choirs said, “It’s quiet and 
lere’s no one around, so I can walk and 
ractice singing.”
Nearby public parks, such as Schenley 
ark adjacent to campus, Frick Park in 
luirrel Hill, and Point State Park down- 
own, are popular among CMU students, 
hey offer paths for running, bicycling, 
jliing and rollerblading, as well as 
pounds for playing sports, picnicking, 
simply lying in the sun.
“My favorite thing to do when it’s warm 
outside is to go running in Schenley 
Park or Point Park,” said Chris Graefe, 
a junior graphic design major.
“I like to go down to Point Park to sit 
on the wall by the river and dabble my 
feet in the water,” added Cheryl Gach, a 
sophomore art major.
Eric Kemnitz, a sophomore informa­
tion and decision systems major, said he 
is looking forward to flying his kite in 
Schenley Park.
“Flying a kite is an activity that gives 
you the sense of being a kid again. I also 
like to play contact sports in the park or 
wherever else I can,” said Kamnitz.
In addition to its public parks, Pitts­
burgh offers a variety of restaurants, 
cafes and shops for student enjoyment.
“I love going downtown and walking 
around,” said Gach.
“There are all these nice little 
restaurants and coffee shops, 
andthearchitectureofthe 
buildings downtown is 
amazing. I espe­
cially love going
to the Pittsburgh Plate and Glass bu d- 
ing.Yougetalunchyoucantakeinto ic 
courtyard where you’re surrounded jy 
glass. You can just sit there and watch 
the clouds.”
In Oakland, Shadyside, and Squirrel 
Hill, the areas in closest proximity to 
CMU, students frequent the 
clothing stores, ethnic restau­
rants and used bookstores 
abundant in these ar­
eas.
Both East 
Carson 
Street on 
the South 
Side
Andrew McDeimott/Tartan Photo Staff
and the down­
town area boast a 
plethora of shops, restau­
rants, delis and bars ranging 
from upscale boutiques and eat­
eries like the Hilton’s Grand Con­
course to vintage clothing stores and 
coffee houses such as the Beehive and 
Arabica Cafe.
As the weather gets warmer, many 
restaurants and cafes offer outdoor seat­
ing, and shops move wears out to the 
sidewalks to attract passersby.
“There’s a really great Thai restau­
rant in Shadyside that I love. Shady side 
is also great for shopping,” said Chen.
“I love to walk down to Dave and 
Andy’s in Oakland — their ice cream is 
really good,” added Kemnitz.
Mecal Martin, a Chemical Engineer­
ing major and Pittsburgh native, said, “I
like to just walk around the city and 
then catch dinner at the Spaghetti Ware- 
house in the Strip District. There’s also 
Mount Washington where you can look 
down over the entire city. Warmweather 
also makes going to sporting events more 
enjoyable, even though the Penguins 
will still be playing when it begins to get 
really warm outside."
Besides great restaurants, the Strip 
District attracts all fresh food aficiona­
dos with its shops and food vendors 
selling anything and everything imag­
inable, from fresh fruits and vegetables 
to homemade pasta and just-made 
cheese.
Whatever the individual students pref­
erence, Pittsburgh has something for 
everyone, and students are taking full 
advantage of it as winter retreats and 
spring comes once again to CMU.
Cracking the Myth - Page L3
The latest Living column looks at campus misconceptions 
concerning the Women’s Center and vocal women’s groups.
Old Man Donner - Page L2
Old Man Donner celebrates Frank Perdue!
This year's Oscar predictions - Page L9
Ballroom Dancing 
Competition 
in full swing
See Page L2

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 1995
INROADS Pittsburgh forges new paths
By TRICIA DAVIS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
INROADS Pittsburgh, Inc., is a non­
profit organization that prepares tal­
ented minority students for corporate 
leadership and places them in profes­
sional and managerial positions.
INROADS recruits high achieving Af- 
rican-American, Latino, and Native 
American students in their senior year 
of high school or in their first or second 
year of college.
Once a student is admitted into the 
INROADS program, he or she partici­
pates in training workshops and semi­
nars that teach business writing, deci­
sion making, stress reduction, finance, 
budgeting, and corporate etiquette. Af­
ter the students complete training, IN­
ROADS helps to place them in two-to 
four-year paid internships with spon­
soring companies.
INROADS is a unique program that 
gives minority students a competitive 
advantage in business and industry.
Tracy Sylvester, the staff specialist at 
INROADS Pittsburgh, Inc., explains, 
“The organization was started by a 
gentleman named Frank C. Carr. He 
was a white man who was a publisher of 
one of the big publishing houses in Chi­
cago — a very wealthy gentleman. Mr. 
Carr heard Martin Luther Ring speak 
at the march on Washington, 1963, and 
said he wanted to make his ‘dream’ come 
true. He met with some of his friends in 
Chicago and decided to start by provid­
ing internships for African-American 
students. That’s how INROADS was 
started in 1970 in Chicago.”
“In the first year,” Sylvester explains, 
“there were 25 interns and 16 sponsor­
ing companies. 25 years later, this year 
in July, we are having a national con­
vention to celebrate our 25th anniver­
sary. We have over 5,300 interns 
throughout the United States, over 800 
sponsoring companies, and over 4,000
membersofour alumni association. Plus, 
this year we will be expandingin Toronto, 
which will be the first affiliate outside 
the United States.”
INROADS Pittsburgh opened in 1977 
with only 14 corporate sponsors and 22 
interns. Today, there are 61 sponsors 
and 114 interns at the Pittsburgh loca­
tion. Corporate sponsors like AT&T, 
Genera] Electric, Arthur Anderson & 
Co., Nationsbank, and Proctor & Gamble, 
provided internships for over 100 IN­
ROADS Pittsburgh students in 1994.
To apply for a position at INROADS, 
students must have a GPA of at least 
2.5. If a student is having trouble main­
taining a 2.5 GPA once they are accepted 
into the program, INROADS will pro­
vide tutoring.
Sylvester clarifies, “If they are having 
some difficulties academically we will 
pay for tutoring. Our organization pays 
for as many tutors as they need, for as 
many classes as they have, for as long as 
they need, for any class that they are not 
receiving an ‘A’ in. What we try to do is 
give them a high level of commitment on 
our part.”
“Our selection process is challenging,” 
Sylvester asserts, “because when we go 
into corporations we tell them we are 
going to provide the best and brightest 
minority students that we can find.”
In 1994, 400 students applied to par­
ticipate in INROADS Pittsburgh, but 
only 114 were chosen.
Natalie Wochele, a freshman in H&SS 
at Carnegie Mellon, iB one of those out­
standing students who participated in 
INROADS last year. “It’s a really good 
program for minorities, and you get paid 
really well. Traininghelps alotbecause 
you learn corporate etiquette and you 
get to meet professionals. It’s a lot of 
fun.”
Another Carnegie Mellon student, 
Saratu Mohammed, a sophomore double 
majoring in civil engineering and engi­
neering & public policy, is currently part
of INROADS Pittsburgh. “You get to 
work for the corporations; it’s not just 
desk jobs, either. I work every summer 
as an intern for Andersen Consulting, 
and one of the things I do is fix computer 
programs for Heinz Company.” 
Mohammed, who is from Nigeria, says, 
“I definitely recommend INROADS for 
other students.”
Jesus Jimenez, a Mexican-American 
bom in Texas, participated in the IN­
ROADS Texas location during his senior 
year of high school, and now as a CMU 
studentis involved with INROADS Pitts­
burgh. He says, “INROADS really got 
me started and gave me the experience 
I needed. It is very effective. Last 
summer I worked for American Airlines, 
and met Bob Crandall, CEO of Ameri­
can Airlines, and Pat Kelly, senior vice- 
president of field services. I had my own 
office, my own computer, and there was 
a secretary for a few of us.”
It is obvious from the rave reviews of 
students and the large number of com­
panies involved, that INROADS is a 
success.
The President and CEO of Briggs & 
Stratton, Frederick P. Stratton, Jr., re­
marks, “This organization is not just 
another well-intentioned coalition; it is 
a professionally managed, organized 
operation that means business ... IN­
ROADS’ enforced standards of excel­
lence can deliver qualified, experienced 
minority job applicants for managerial 
positions.”
INROADS has events throughout the 
year. The interns are involved in com­
munity service, and there is an annual 
award ceremony every July to honor 
companies and students who demon­
strated their abilities academically and 
professionally.
Any studentor organization interested 
in participatingin INROADS Pittsburgh 
should contact their office downtown at 
two Gateway Center, Suite 400, or call 
540-9668.
Dancers step into first
By SAMEER KARIM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
On March 18, the CMU Ballroom 
Dance Club will host at least six other 
schools in the ‘95 Spring Fling & Com­
petition at the Soldiers & Sailors Me­
morial. Both students and adults will 
compete. There will be an additional 
performance by professionals. Be­
tween 30 and 35 members of CMU’s 
Competition Team will participate in 
this contest, containing a total of over 
100 students.
The categories are: new-comers, 
those who have never been in compe­
tition before and have been dancing 
for less than a year; beginners, those 
who have competed in at least one 
competition and have danced for less 
than one year; syllabus, those who 
have danced for over one year; and 
advanced.
There will also be competitions in 
the Salsa and similar dances. The 
competitions are “friendly and fun,” 
says Pamelyn Klepal, Competition 
Team Coordinator and former club 
president. She farther states that 
people from other teams are really 
“supportive,” especially the advanced 
dancers of the beginners.
Klepal, a senior, has been with the 
club since the spring of her freshman 
year and was actually forced by a 
friend to come to the club one day. She 
has since fallen in love with ballroom 
dance. Michael Posner, a Ph.D. stu­
dent in the Statistics department who 
had his first competition at the Catho­
lic University of America this past 
fall, states that “[you are] on a high for 
two weeks after competition.”
Drew Sheffinan, who has been with 
the club for one and a half years and is 
currently President, states similarly, 
“If I have two months of hell here, a
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo St 
Dancln’ the night away...
competition can knock them out 
Along these lines Sheffinan quotes Ka 
Teague, Director of the Youth Collej 
based in Washington D.C., as sayj 
that ballroom dance is the 
secret in America.”
CMUs team looks promising, h 
ing received a second place in 
American Style and having tied 
first in International Style in th 
Catholic University of America (CUA 
competition last fall. CUA is the chi! 
rival of CMU, though the rivalry 
friendly. In the team’s last competi 
tion at Ohio State University, CMI 
again placed secondinAmerican Styi 
and placed first in International Styli 
Throughout the year the team 
tends roughly five or six competitions 
The Ballroom Dance Club is the larg 
est club on campus with 200members 
almost all of whom are active. The fclulj 
began approximately 5 years ago 
has more than doubled in size since 
last year.
The club meets on Wednesdays in tk 
Student Center. Level I times are 6-1 
pm, and8:45-9:4Spm.Newcomersm 
well as spectators are always welcome 
to the dance meetings where refresh­
ments are served.
Old Man Donner chickens out with some help from Frank Perdu
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
Remember how I promised you 
something to go with last week’s 
fiesta? Well, forget it. Due to 
unavoidable circumstances 
(three words, maybe just two: 
black market babies).
At any rate, I won’t let the man 
get in the way of keeping you well 
fed. What we have here today is a 
variation on a theme and quite 
possibly the best dish I’ve ever 
had/made. The medium? 
Chicken. Frank Perdue is a god.
Chicken Marsala
chicken breasts (8, from 4 chix)
flour pepper
1 small onion
(yellow preferable)
2 cloves garlic
1/4 cup white wine
1/2 cup marsala
For those who don’t know, 
marsala is a wonderfully sweet 
wine that is excellent for cooking; 
this here is about the simplest 
thing you can do with it. Chop the 
onion, mince the garlic, and 
dredge the breasts. In case you 
don’t know, that just means put 
some flour on a plate and drag 
the chicken through until lightly 
coated.
Now, I rarely do this, even when 
the original recipe calls for it, 
‘cause it can often get in the way 
of the flavors. Here, however, it 
accents it and holds onto like you 
wouldn’t believe. Oh, and mix 
some pepper into the flour.
Anyway, once prep work is 
done, heat a large frying pan and 
sauté the onion and garlic (as 
always, give onion the head start); 
once it’s clear, remove it from the 
pan and throw in the white wine
while the pan’s still hot, but off 
the stove. This is known as 
deglazing, and it mixes the fla­
vors richly and wonderfully. Once 
the sizzling dies down, pour the 
wine over the garlic and onions.
Now cook the chicken, medium- 
high heat, until thoroughly 
cooked; put it on your serving 
plate(s).
Put the onion and garlic back 
in the pan (again, while still hot), 
and deglaze with the marsala. 
This time let it reduce some, boil­
ing off perhaps a third of the 
volume. Pour it all atop the 
chicken, and you’re done. Takes a 
bit to explain, but really quite 
simple.
Chicken with Greek Tomato 
Sauce and Feta Cheese 
The Sauce: 
olive oil 
yellow onion
1 clove of garlic
5 very ripe tomatoes (chopped)
2 tbs chopped parsley 
2 tsp. oregano
1 cup red wine
8 oz. can of tomato sauce 
1/4 tsp. cinnamon 
pinch allspice
The rest:
1/2 lb feta (not crumbled) 
maybe 4 — 6 chicken breasts
The above proportions give you 
at least twice as much sauce as 
you need, but this sauce is so 
good, you’ll want more. Sauté the 
first three items, as per the usual. 
Reduce the heat, and add the 
next three items; simmer these 
covered for about 25 minutes. Fi­
nally, add the remaining items 
(cinnamon? yes, cinnamon; that’s 
what makes it Greek) and sim­
mer a remaining 20 minutes un­
covered. While all this is going 
on, slice your chicken into stir- 
fry-sized slices.
This recipe is actually designed
for 11/2 lbs. of shrimp, but if you 
can afford shrimp, then your but­
ler is reading this column for you, 
and the hell with you. Anyway, 
make the chicken act like shrimp 
(“Oh, no, it’s Mr. Grouper!”) and 
fill the bottom of a big frying pan 
with it. Cover with the sauce 
(again, no more than 1/2) and 
cook covered on medium-low heat 
for, oh, say, 20 more minutes (pick 
a piece of poultry to practice per­
fection; OK, I let the alliteration 
take over: what I meant was, test 
a piece to see if it’s all cooked).
It should be very tender. Don’t 
stir things up yet. Cover the whole 
thing with 1/4" slices of feta and 
put the lid on. Another 10 min­
utes or so and the whole thing 
should be a big, gooey, delicious 
mess.
Now stir it all together so the 
sauce turns quite pink. With
plenty of fresh bread (or Poppi 
Fresh, at the very least), you’re 
for the treat of the month. Woi 
The first time I made this, I 
dumb struck at the taste; I hop 
things work out as well for you 
Two more things on this recipf 
Jeeves, if you do use shrimp, 
don’t need to peel them — 
shell turns edible and soft intb 
cooking. It’s up to you whethe 
you take advantage. The othe 
thing is that this is not a quic 
recipe, but it’s worth it anywa] 
Pick a Saturday, get a date 
two, and spend some time ham 
crafting a dinner to make Past! 
Piatto look sick.
We have no idea what this fool 
ranting about. There is 
“Agency,” there is no conspiracy, 
So forget what you’ve read in 
column and get on with your lift
LOGIC
To get 
ahead, 
run with 
the leaden.
You should be proud of your college record. You saw a window of 
opportunity and you took advantage of it, with hard work, determination, 
and—finally—success. And your timing couldn’t be better, because right 
now LSI Logic is poised for a similar opportunity—a perfect convergence 
of our new technologies and market demands.
A decade ago we pioneered ASIC technology—a semiconductor 
technology that allows electronics manufacturers to design their own 
integrated circuits. Since then, we’ve led the ASIC industry to another 
level—system-level integration. Our new technology allows our 
Designers to put a complete system on a single chip...and our 500K (1.5 
million gate technology) process provides the means to manufacture it.
But we can’t continue to lead the industry alone—and that’s where you 
come in. Our success has created challenging engineering opportunities 
for you in die following area:
• AsiNe ¡¡mu
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Friday, March 3rd
If you are ready to set the winning pace for innovation and run with the 
leader, then contact: Cynthia F. Sakuma, College Relations Program 
Manager, LSI Logic Corporation, 1551 McCarthy Blvd., M/S A-166, 
Milpitas, CA 95035. (408) 433-4300. FAX: (408) 433-6737. EQUAL 
OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER—M/F, DISABLED/V.
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm • Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 1995L3
Stigmas harm women’s center
Cracking the Myth
by Suzanne Paddock
Founded a little over five years ago, the 
Women’s Center still stands in the Margaret 
Morrison Plaza. Although designed as a resource 
for the entire CMU community, the Women’s 
Center remains mostly vacant except for the 
regular “staffers” and the occasional curious 
stray who wanders in.
Someone who is not familiar with CMU may 
ask why this is, but everybody on campus knows 
the answer. Because it is the meeting place for 
such groups as the Lesbian Avengers, the Clito- 
ral Hoods, and the Riot Grrlz, the centerhas been 
branded a militant lesbian hangout.
What are these groups, and who are the people 
who join them? Has anybody really asked this 
question? Has anyone asked if people can as­
sume that they know what these groups are all 
about because the words lesbian’ or ‘clitoris’ 
appear in their titles? It is doubtful.
The spreading of inaccurate information by 
the Phoenix and negative propaganda by the 
Phoenix and Jim Quinn, the disc jockey from the 
Magic 97 morning show, has only increased mis­
conceptions about these groups and women’s 
issues in general. “It’s like censoring books you 
haven’t read,” said Sarah Pendergrass, a sopho­
more art major.
Pendergrass explained the purpose of the Les­
bian Avengers: “Our goal is to increase lesbian 
visibility and awareness of lesbian issues. We 
work reactively and proactively.”
What is the point of lesbian visibility and 
awareness of lesbian issues? After all, isn’t 
somebody’s sexual preference their own busi­
ness? Tell that to the men and women who have 
been kicked out of the military or to the people 
who are beaten up or whose houses have been 
burnt down. Whose business is that?
Lesbian Avengers do demonstrations, 
postering, and even some graffiti. At some of 
their demonstrations they eat fire. They do this 
in response to all the burnings and gay bashings 
that occur. “We fight the fire, we take the fire, 
and we make it our own,” said Pendergrass. 
“Some say queer people are asking for special 
rights, but we’re not; we’re asking for equal 
rights and protection under the law,” she said.
Currently, there is no legislation against sexual 
preference discrimination. Gays and lesbians 
can be denied jobs and housing. They are also 
continuously harassed. Pendergrass can recount 
several occasions when both she and her friends 
were harassed in verbal and written forms. It 
appears that someone’s sexual preference is not 
just their own business.
The Clitoral Hoods was “formed as an all­
women, pro-sex, feminist organization protest­
ing the administration’s view that women must 
be protected from explicit sexual imagery,” ex­
plained one member, who wished to remain 
anonymous. Founded last semester, the Clitoral 
Hoods was created in response to the censorship
of pornographic bboards at CMU.
The members of the Clitoral Hoods view 
women’s sexuality as “positive, empowering, and 
fun,” said the anonymous member. Unlike people 
who feel pornography objectifies women as 
sexual objects, the group believes pornography 
is an accepted expression of sexuality. “We see 
nothing degrading or disgusting in the portrayal 
of sexual acts with or without women’s involve­
ment,” she added.
At first the Clitoral Hoods excluded male par­
ticipation. “At the time of its formation the 
group’s intention was to discredit a claim of 
abuse towards women. We felt as a women’s 
group we had more authority to dispute that 
claim,” said an anonymous member.
However, the Erotic story hour, one of the 
Clitoral Hoods’ activities, is currently open to 
any person who wants to come and appreciate 
“some funny, bizarre, or just plain hot stories,” 
she explained.
The Pittsburgh chapter of the Riot Grrlz also 
meets at the Women’s Center. The Riot Grrlz 
differ from the rest of the organizations because 
its members are of a younger age; ranging from 
12 to 23. But age does not make them any less 
important.
The organization offers an outlet for discus­
sion and awareness of female potential. ‘It’s 
important for high school girls to learn how to 
articulate themselves in a male dominated 
world,” said Jess Milberg, a member of the Riot 
Grrlz.
Riot Grrlz is a nationwide organization that 
started in Washington, D.C. In response to dis­
crimination by club owners against female bands, 
a “fanzine” was created and eventually trans­
formed into the Riot Grrlz. The Pittsburgh chap­
ter of the Riot Grrlz has sponsored benefit con­
certs at the Women’s center and hope to have the 
Girl Fest (a get-together for all chapters of the 
Riot Grrlz) to be held in Pittsburgh.
The Lesbian Avengers, Clitoral Hoods, and 
the Riot Grrlz are not the only groups who meet 
at the Women’s center. Women in Science, 
Campus Association for Reproductive Rights, 
and the Association For Life, along with other 
groups, also meet at the Women’s Center.
The organization of the Women’s Center is a 
collective. This means all members have an 
equal voice in what goes on at the center. The 
structure of the collective provides anyone the 
opportunity to participate in the Women’s Cen­
ter. It is easy to become a member. Just show up 
at two of the collective meetings held on Tues­
days at 5:30 pm.
Everyone is given the opportunity to become a 
member. Yet, who are the women who partici­
pate? They are those who agree with the beliefs 
of some or all of the organizations that meet at 
the center. Those who disagree with any of the 
established organizations and use this as an 
excuse for not getting involved perpetuate the 
stereotype of the Women’s Center.
If someone believes the Women’s Center offers 
them nothing, then it is their responsibility to 
become involved and create something that does. 
No one is going to do it for them. It’s time this 
campus realizes these “radical” groups domi­
nate the Women’s Center because they are the 
ones who care enough to become involved.
Suzanne Paddock is a junior literary and cul­
tural studies major, with a minor in gender 
studies. She is currently preparing a campus- 
wide coffee talk.
Vira Heinz Award presented
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The Vira I. Heinz Endowment 
Travel Study Award enables a 
junior woman to study abroad for 
six weeks during the summer 
prior to her senior year. The an­
nual award of $3,500 is given to 
women at 11 colleges and univer­
sities in the area including 
Carnegie Mellon University, Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, Chatham 
College, and Duquesne Univer­
sity.
Each applicant must fill out an
application, com- ____________
plete an inter­
view, and be in 
good academic 
standing. This 
year, CMU had 
18 applicants.
The 1995 recipi­
ent of the award,
Kristen Batch, 
has plans to re­
search graffiti 
from a cultural and sociological 
perspective in Madrid, Spain, for 
10 weeks. Batch, a junior literary 
and cultural studies and Spanish 
major, is looking forward to her 
stay in Madrid.
“I like Spain very much. The 
culture is not foreign to me be­
cause I have traveled there be­
fore. I went for the first time 
when I was eleven, so before I 
identified with my own Ameri­
can culture, I was already intro­
duced to a new culture.”
Although Batch is excited about 
the cultural and social experi­
ence she will gain from her trav­
els, such as going to museums, 
cafes, bars, and other public 
places, she is anxious to conduct 
her research dealing with graf­
fiti.
However, Batch feels that the 
vandalism of America contrasts 
greatly with that of Spain. “There 
are many differences between the 
graffiti in Spain and the graffiti 
in the United States,” she said. 
“This is because the issues that 
are important here are not in
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
Spain. For example, graffiti here 
focuses on gangs, drugs, and vio­
lence, but in Spain it deals with 
more political issues. Graffiti in 
Spain reflects the social aware­
ness and beliefs of the people.”
Feeling it would be conducive 
to her study, Batch decided to 
focus solely on Madrid during her
10 weeks in Spain.
“The reason I am staying only 
in Madrid is so that I can confine 
my study. I will be able to divide 
the area demographically and 
examine the socioeconomic 
stratas within the city. This en-
“...Graffiti here focuses on gangs, drugs, 
and violence, but in Spain it deals with 
more political issues.”
— Kristen Batch, recipient of Vira 
Heinz Endowment Award
gram is that Batch must write a 
paper on her experience in 
Madrid. However, she will supple­
ment the paper with photos and 
an essay.
She plans to document her graf­
fiti findings and research with 
photos as well as interviews with 
the people of Madrid.
Jodi Finkel, a senior directing 
major in the Drama Department 
who was the recipient of last 
year’s award, emphasizes the im­
portance of the interview and the 
communication abilities of the ap­
plicants.
________________ Finkel, who
is currently a 
member of the 
all-fem ale 
panel who 
chooses the 
winner of the 
award said, 
“Next year, 
we are plan­
ning to do a 
seminar that
ables me to place graffiti in a 
context based on social status. I 
can compare different geographic 
locations such as wealthy and 
poor, suburban and metropoli­
tan, and collegiate and non-colle- 
giate. Breaking the city down into 
divisions will be very helpful be­
cause I can then compare the 
graffiti within these separate ar­
eas. It’s sort of like a methodol­
ogy to my research. It will let me 
draw conclusions.”
Batch has already begun her 
research despite the fact that she 
is still in America.
“I want to get most of the re­
search done before I go. Reading 
the local Madrid newspaper, II 
Pais, is a way to learn about the 
events happening now. I can then 
study the graffiti that is in oppo­
sition to it.”
One requirement of the pro­
will prepare junior women to 
write proposals and present 
themselves in an interview. Each 
applicant should be equally pre­
pared, because knowing how to 
handle an interview is helpful for 
future job interviews.”
Batch feels the applicants will 
benefit greatly from this program. 
She feels the interview is ex­
tremely important.
“The interview puts a lot of 
pressure on you because you need 
to develop a strong rapport. You 
need eye contact. That’s really 
difficult with a large group of 
people. When you speak to more 
than four people, the interview 
turns into a presentation. It 
moves beyond the boundaries of 
an interview,” she said.
“I spent more more time writ­
ing this proposal than any other 
paper or project,” Batch said.
Lambda FoundationScholarshipProgram
$3,000 scholarships are available to any . 
full-time sophomore or junior student 
who has made a positive contribution 
toward the integration of Gay, Lesbian 
and Bisexual people, their culture or 
their organizations into the college or 
university community.
The Lambda Foundation • PO Box 5169
Deadline: April 15,1995 
Awards: July, 1995
Applications can be obtained 
through your student affairs 
office, financial aid office or by 
writing the Lambda Foundation.
* Peh, PA 15206 • 412-521-5444
BATES HILL
2 & 3-Bedroom Apartments Available
Available immediately, and for 
Spring, Summer and Fall terms 
Modern luxury, short-term available, fitness center, 
reserved parking available, 24-hour maintenance 
Office Hours: 9 am - 5 pm 
Evening, weekends by appointment
Bates Hill Apartments 
3812 Bates St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Telephone: 361-4643
Managed by
QNDC Asset 
Management, Inc.
OPfORTMfTY
Need Help with Library Research? 
Try The FirstSearch Catalog
Imagine having access to 18,000 libraries 
worldwide, and being able to locate their 
resources from one powerful online catalog...
How about access to tables of contents and 
articles from 11,000 current journals?
Would you like to find the addresses and 
statistics you need in directories that are 
conthiunNy updated?
What if you could get proceedings and 
papers just as easily?
What if you could find infonnation in up-to- 
the-minute databases in your subject 
discipline, and order copies from a document 
delivery system?
Would these capabilities add a fresh, creative edge to your studying, teaching, or research? You 
bet! Well, these great ideas are now reality with The FirstSearch Catalog from the OCLC Online 
Computer Library Center, Inc., a nonprofit membership organization that serves libraries and 
educational institutions around the world.
From March 1 through May 17,1995, the Carnegie Mellon University Libraries are hosting a free 
trial of all the databases in The FirstSearch Catalog on the LIS Library Information System. Your 
use and response to The FirstSearch Catalog in these six weeks will help the libraries evaluate 
this product and determine whether we should subscribe to some or all of its services for the uni­
versity community.
Take advantage of this chance to expand your library horizons and get the latest information in 
your field! Learn more about The FirstSearch Catalog at Carnegie Mellon—come to any refer­
ence desk in the University Libraries. Don’t be last to try The FirstSearch Catalog on LIS between 
March 1 and May 17. See you soon!

---------------------------------------------------

ìèraw
Ü(oom Retention.
Current First-Year Students 
Current Sophomores & Juniors 
Designee Only Day
I
March 7, 1995 
March 8, 1995 
March 9, 1995
Room Retention events will take place in the West Wing TV Room.
Designee Only Day will be held in the West Wing Rec. Room.
Refer to the Housing Office's "Room Reservation Process" brochure 
and the b-board org.housing.room-draw for a complete listing of times 
or call the Housing Office at x8-2139.
____Room Retention_
New England Electric
Leader in the Electric Utility 
Industry Pioneer in 
Information Technology 
Announces On Campus Interviews 
for Software Application Developers
March 9th
Meet with a member of our 
front line management team. 
Discuss opportunities to use 
the latest in client/server 
application development tools.
FINANCIAL MARKETS
COMMODITIES
NEWS
We’re Looking for Tomorrow’s Innovators.
THE FIRM
Bloomberg L.P. is a leading financial information firm, 
providing sophisticated data and analysis to investment 
professionals and major companies around the world.
THE POSITION
Software Developers/Financial Analysts/System 
Programmers for entry-level positions in New York City 
and Princeton, NJ.
REQUIREMENTS
Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, 
computer science, engineering and/or mathematics 
background, at least two semesters or equivalent 
programming coursework and knowledge of C, Pascal, 
Fortran or similar language.
INTERESTED?
We will be recruiting at Carnegie Mellon on March 30, 
1995. Contact the Office of Career Services if you are 
interested in more information or would like to interview 
for the above position.

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and HobbesI <g
by Bill Watterson
l uGabI LorImoCen ykwework mw<es WWe HAFP'i. W
i Dont want to go ^ OUTSIDE. I WANT TO DO MATH PROBLEMS. WÉÉ
W MMK(S REJECTS 
ATTITUDE TO\N5PUWS.
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
I Wewi lnotobtlnprîmrmEMAiLAT ™ gpoWxebolk,
-y w ' wfg_S1 idtk eWumb d-sp.maiTAPwa&eöiT idt dhonMnuua uhc w1-ppt3 ,
THEN I ENTER MY PA&5- HJORP. "ROr:6UT"! &N60! IM IN! ANPLOOK... I’VE 60TONE PlECa OF Er MAIL ! l£Ti OPEN 'ER UP, PRONTO!
LUNATIC
UMTS @%3¡F « ¿as-./WCK5SS?
i’.. -•• SLIOLSf9wLL5 7’BL•Lff B’•L with UIfvP P’BFCMLS f5v••f D’S JL••.FIvOa fLPCSL 4’U9 DSLL MSIvSv0GI0O BL0MI•7LI•M7PISL9 x’0 MIPM JSvMLS9
LOOK AT HOW PEOPVE ARE
coCio rI/ Ss cmc TiotTn
m WOMEN ARE INDECISIVE 
WHINERS, NAGGING
TACImT- mo
BIMBOS/
AND BE MEN ARE HO BETTER. 
THEfRE BEFUDDLED MORoNS. 
UEAW DRINKERS, GLUTTONS. 
AND LAZI GOOF OFFS/
0 EVERYONE \S \N«M?ETENT,
§ UNAPPftEOATED. AND UNSUCCESSFUL !
AoE
VWAT m\) of \Ns\o\oys SCCVAV. 
PROGRAMMING IS TW\S S' NO 
VfòNDER TUE WORLDS SOOA A MESS.' I CEMAND POL\T\CAVL'< 
CORRECT, MORAU-S 0PL\FTTNG ROE MCDEIS INTUt fUNN\ES.'
IES, WE AU. mow vow WHW? GOC0 ROLE MODELS ARE .
ALL TUE K\Ós\yS Æ,
pta
EdJ!Ph. l. Ff ­vP! 
lw ydJ TsIIHIg RhP 
.zf kc,x w,dx hdJ, 
hdkf Ghk.Rh.!k w,dMfq
§ NCW COULD BREAK 
‘ IT OFF SCMR FACE 
AND VAANE A 3-D 
SCULPTURE OF 
'(CUR SNEEZE/
Ufé IK 
H£ IV
©i^í g», MAH' 6Ro£iJ II*16
BuTTH6»J &6FOft£TMei3
BIXTIHS IEH LERRJU X D
oRwneE sr vXi BecHMIcLIa x
AND fcAÄAT£ ßOßßEAS CAME I 
TOTHEClßcUSTD STÇ.AL. }
EHfi fHIITH tcTS ITcHS
TO FLAP OUT, But A UTTIE Twy aiAc> couupo'T.
>AEAK)U)HILE, ftACfc AT-Wf id 
LAlfi.,TH6y CHEATED THE 
ßlfcp IK3TO A 6IANT M0NÎTF«, 
AMD (T UJAS WAMEDHOO60O.
HE LCOKEO LIKE A ÔIÛO 
UjlTH SPtKES, A AWtJSTÛoüS 
ONvsP: bps ClNs hMJ u 
yd-mFguW hBWuAOK
WO OHE COOLO STOP HCOGOO.Utu)ASTO)Pow£ftpa. He 
e-i&o Fiee at the citî, ne
CeuSHED KTTHtCiTj, Mo 
HE CßAtKLEO (*0 SHßieteO.
Bor IEHK3 RP1 PefisoK)
SiAfAEO MOfcO HAu A 
SüPEß.- PlAfie. ANO KE 
THß£üJ Flftt&AU¿ AMÇ? ScoßPlOMS Ffto* TH& PUW€.
CC7
AMH00600 GOT SO SuMPeo 
IMTO HIS HEAP, BE 6or 
OJE/TW0' AWD 6oT 
Smashed i kko the woree." c
AMO THOT u)AS THE Ewe OF 
H66066. OE U)flc IT?
?C
ButthE CiBuS PEOftE GoT RsfYpj ßifcp NAMED JoE,ûHD THE MAO SciEMTlSTS AND THE EAÛATE fcoB&E&S . WAkJVEOTOGÆABHiM. I I AT*
Butthev Got DESrßoyEc? 
6y MOKO, WHO SHOT OFF 
A Flame tocp&od i*j thes^.v.v;^./lC
WOTHikJG lOAf WÊOMG 
U3ITH W00600. pNyC9MnNO 
iKiTO A SEA CßEAT^eE.THEN) 
HE DIED AtOD AU, THE 
60U?F»SH ATE HIM.
AND JoE,THE Go^ THAT 
DESTftOjED H006CD.LWEO
HAPPlLM EUE2. Acrte,

---------------------------------------------------

wEtdo
THE ARMIES OF SILLA AMP¡ 
TAWC, xdy1- -lt vd$-$yo6 
Tel K/AQü/'I l^e iy3-H 
Wo-$8w
OUR FRONT LINE 
DEEENCE ALR.EAPY HAS 
f ALLEN. I AM 0/?OE(?eP 
RY H IS MAJESTY TO STOP 
SI LLA'5 soooo MÉA/ IWAS-toK 
EORCB LEO BY KIM
THE ONLY troops ai/erJ 
¦ME ARE THE 5000 S£>LDl£& 
WHO PLED&EP ro D/e WITH ME...
REMEMBER whew 
MADE THE PROIH/sg . 
THAT I WILL BE ALWAY5 
THERE TO fROTECT YOU
idyw W yHH pt 
idR H-wi iyot 
SEE YOU
IT 5EEM5 y gT1zi 
?E A?LE TO IfE&P 
id-i PROMISE,
* H*
^ I»
e
KM
What’s a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
CHomP
CHOMP
Laddergrams
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object is to transform the word on the top rung into the word on the bottom rung in the least number of steps. During each step you must replace one' letter in the previous word so that a hew word is formed, but without changing the positions of the other letters. For example, we can change LEAD into GOLD in just three steps: LEAD, LOAD, GOAD. GOLD.
SMEK.6ET 
BBWi 
Se(U/eD 
IN fAE
cftRUfwe 
r.oom
Copyright 0 1994 
by Hark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved.
Cof>T<*>ueX> FP*M i^*rVr ax-EX
1. Hindu instrument 6. Automobile stat 
9. Lovc3ick fool
12. Senseless
13. Time period
14. __ la la
15. Brarid of cigarette16. Subset 
18. Hairpiece
20. biblical poems
21. Including
24. ___Cabana
26. Skit
27. Lend
29. Thunnus thynnus 31. Vex 
33. Armies 
38. Reorganize
40. Boredom
41. Unsaid quantity
43. English county
44. Oil prefix
48. Smallest unit of 
an element
50. cccipass point
51. Chap 
53. Marry
55. Construction leader 57. Treated with
61. Lennon's wife62. Unit of area
63. Give speech
64. Author Bradbury
65. Soak
66. Mountainous Asian
country
DOKH
1. Attack
2. Once___Lifetime
3. Scottish cap
4. Again
5. Artifact
6. Unit of radiation
7. C-C-C
8. God of war
9. Whiskey apparatus
10. Odor
11. Wimp
17 Bug a phone 
19. Obtained
21. Winged
22. Zero
23. Goldamit
25. Preaching lectern 
28. Neither 30. Improve wine 
32. Thou
34. Pen necessity
35. Singles
36. Convent dwellers
37. Place
39. Not cognizant 
42. Drag behind
44. Two prepositions
45. Helmsley, e.g.
46 George Jetson's son 47. Bravo
49. Cranium (slang)
52. PLO chairman Otrar 
54. Silly challenge 
56. Profit
58. Baseball hat
59. Greek letter
CLOSE to HOME john m^pherson
"For the third time, sir, there are no other seats 
available! Now please take your seat."
I'« feL*p Wtó 6Aq¿( -lewp/..
i-É'r% ber lux opHCfcß.
7
ma Buopy aTJsauS wwm. v* tu tur oth&p- 
Srefcu Confkfiu tJgfee'Ti*TnJ& ft- fj&w
V CtoWTrtAtr. ..
Jf y<Mt curr^cT > 
fAifc, uJfc'U- OPFBt
A OWE..,
Mfwee.
8LA&T WWO! Y<M
FoouV Yot\ PJJV (J»Ti0W5
fftlR. MJD t»NP/Vl(2-, , .
UC> OxJES
M ETMfuo^l££
AuiTHlPé... IKeY'ltE 
EKpeUPMlé. — A
TowJ. I. t'4, -riMt To euo tHese su,'/ 
U6e(i/\u
ifìTìT
mm
Suteuy -faj e EC THE eewEFtTS, erp 
«p ihphsiyw ! i£T>{, mh^£ A
.pefrt,1. r~
0*R Cfflep o^ftiATitóc. opptc-£fi. Jasr 
SAiD Mo, *«p 1 /WAY& DEFER.T° H»-- 
LFT yi>n A PEft(-,
fu-
Yen MJP YOUR, 
u-r^e ''PAMoi$t r
Hut/jeo!
-pò ö7rIwWewiln ÍT WAiT ^i/°! otI P£EI) «//„rtdS
MAAM-PH^/at YomìI nttuw
"r

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 89. Issue 18The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania27 February 1995
Good performers justify Cause
ing. While the acting was indeed 
superb (how can you go wrong 
with screen veteran Sean 
Connery backed up by names like
gy APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Ever since I saw the first pre- 
yjew a month ago, I’ve been 
jumping out of my skin to 
Just Cause. Some­
times, when I’m this ex­
cited about something so 
far in advance I end up 
getting disappointed.
With this movie, however, 
such was not the case.
While I didn’t find this film 
to be as wonderfully shock- 
and evocative as Si­
lence of the Lambs (the 
film that many critics and 
audiences are comparing 
it to), Just Cause held its 
own against the onslaught 
of dull psycho-thrillers 
that seem to pop up in 
theaters every other week.
Blair Underwood plays ©Ron Phillips
Bobby Earl Ferguson, a Ed Harris plays the preaching 
young and handsome psychophathic prisoner Blair Sullivan in 
Cornell-educated man the new suspense-thriller, Just Cause. 
sentenced to death row for the Fishbume, Harris, and Under- 
murder of a young girl. wood), the film actually turned
Ferguson seeks out the help of out to be a twisting, often sur- 
Harvard law professor, Paul prising tangle of a much larger 
Armstrong (Sean 
Connery), claiming 
that a false confes­
sion was literally 
beaten out of him by 
hard-core cop 
played by Laurence 
Fishbume (What’s 
Love Got to Do With 
It?, Searching for 
Bobby Fischer).
Armstrong finds 
himself caught be­
tween Underwood’s 
sullen-eyed, soft- 
featured character 
and a volatile, 
preacher-like in­
mate played by Ed 
Harris (The Firm,
Needful Things).
I originally believed this movie 
would be a straightforward, in­
tense drama carried along by in­
telligent dialogue and superb act-
©Ron Phillips
Sean “James Bond” Connery and Laurence Fishbume help 
to round out an all-star performance of decent calibre in Just 
Cause, also starring Blair Underwood.
story than I really expected. At 
several points during the movie,
I found myself sitting bolt up­
right in my seat, bracing myself
for the next intriguing develop­
ment.
So why didn’t this movie quite 
measure up to Silence of the 
Lambs? One of the main reasons 
is that the director often tends 
towards gimmicks and hackneyed 
cliches that have been used doz­
ens of times before. Not all of 
them fail, for most of them have 
some small twist to them that no 
one else seems to have thought of 
before. But in some places they 
are obvious enough that I sort of 
felt cheated. I won’t give a spe­
cific example because I wouldn’t 
want to give anything away, but 
one scene in particular made me 
feel cheated to the point that I 
was almost mad. Really, I think I 
was just disappointed that the 
director chose such an easy way 
out of a very tense situation.
One thing that really puzzled 
me throughout the movie was the 
dialogue. In places it was abso­
lutely brilliant, well-written, and 
well-delivered enough to satisfy 
even the most obsessive dialogue 
lovers.
In other places, however, it was 
ridiculous enough that even such 
an eloquent speaker 
as Connery couldn’t 
pull it off. At one point 
he states, “If that’s a 
confession, my ass is a 
banjo!” I was embar­
rassed to hear it and 
have to wonder if 
Connery.felt the same 
when he said it.
Despite these few 
weaknesses, Just 
Cause succeeds in 
thrilling, surprising, 
and even delighting 
the audience, includ­
ing myself.
Connery fans should 
enjoy his performance, 
and even the most 
stoic moviegoers will 
find themselves intrigued by the 
widely diverse range of charac­
ters and the web of deceit in which 
they are entangled.
Omni blends text, comics
COMIC BOOK CHRONICLES
By Jason Andracki
Well, I said I’d be doing something completely 
different this week, so I’m sure you all couldn’t 
sleep waiting to see what it was. The more I think 
about this, it isn’t all that unique, but it is sorta 
different. Beginning in the March issue of the 
fine science fact and fiction 
magazine, Omni, is a feature 
called “Omni Comix.” Hey, 
they even plastered “Col­
lector’s Edition” on the cover 
to get us in the mood!
In addition to the usual in­
teresting (and usually dis­
turbing) articles and features 
of Omni, you can now read 
two comic stories at the end 
of the issue. Both the stories 
are half comic book style and 
the other half straight text 
stories TOth a few;of pictures.
I guess they didn’t want to 
totally alienate the high brow 
science types who read their 
magazine. All in all, it’s a 
total of 36 pages, so if you are 
just buying the magazine for 
the comics, the $3.95 cover price is pretty compa­
rable to most comics.
The first story is “High Guard,” written by 
Caragonne & Thornton, with art by Paris Cullens 
and Dave Elliot, all of whom I have never heard 
of before. I must say I resent them not giving the 
first names of the writers. “High Guard” is billed 
as “The untold story of America’s race to the 
moon.” Of course, the names have been changed 
toproteetthe guilty, but anyone who slept through 
a U.S. History class can figure out which Presi­
dent was assassinated in real life.
tins isn’t a half bad story, and the art is rather 
remnant of 1970s Neal Adams (Batman, Green 
Lantern I Green Arrow). The comic book story is 
vastly more entertainingthan text continuation. 
Here the writing is choppy and amateurish, 
almost as if it were the script for what the artist 
didn’t draw. Still, “High Guard” is very enter­
taining.
The second story, “Mission to Mars,” is clearly 
the better of the two. Once again the mysterious 
Caragonne & Thornton are the writers, and 
Andrew Robbinson and Bob Wiacek, who I be­
lieve was inker of the Avengers for quite awhile, 
provide the art. This is clearly a modem story 
with references to Cray supercomputers, CD- 
ROMs, and the Internet (actually, there is even 
a reference to pornography via computers), so it 
should appeal to that CMU audi­
ence.
The story begins with text and is 
followed by the comic story. Both 
are equally excellent. This is a book 
that 1 would certainly buy on its' 
own. It deals with extraterrestri­
al?, government cover-ups, and 
that fact? on Mars that was re­
ported by that denizen of cutting- 
edge journalism, the Weekly World 
News. Caragonne & Thornton also 
manage to develop some realistic 
three dimensional characters. I will 
certainly stick around longer to 
find out more about this story. 
©Omni Publications Int'i, Ltd. “Omni Comix” is definitely a step
Omni Magazine breaks thetext/ i n the right direction, if only to 
comic barrier with its new half gain more respect for this often 
narrative, half pictorial "Omni hacked-on genre of literature. I 
Comix" installment. hope Omni succeeds with this
project and maybe even launches its own line of 
comics. Although the market is flooded, it isn’t 
flooded with quality science fiction comics like 
this. If you’ve been following Primordials and 
Lost Universe from Tekno Comics, then I recom­
mend you check out “Omni Comix.” Hey, you can 
get it on Campus Xpress in the bookstore.
Jason Andracki = sophomore + professional 
writing major. From “Continuum” in Omni; “Pink 
flamingos, in the wild state, owe their coloration 
to their diet ofcarotenoid-rich algae, which stains 
This is a blatantly Cold War style story with their feathers pink. In captivity, zoo diets provide 
lines like, “No way my boy is gonna wake up next pink shrimp and other similarly pigmented food- 
month under a communist moon...” Yeah, as if stuffs to maintain the color.” Does this mean if we 
the Soviet Union would take over the world just feed them lots of spinach and broccoli we’ll have 
because they landed on the moon first. Actually, green flamingos?
Columnists say goodbye 
with review of Pizza Outlet
THE PIZZA REVIEWS
By Jon Slenk and the Pizza Review Board
Restaurant: Pizza Outlet
Phone: 687-9555
For this, probably our final column, we scrutinized Pizza 
Outlet, a long standing Pittsburgh company.
The Pepperoni
Unfortunately, this pie didn’t get the review off to a good start. 
It was overcooked. The crust didn’t suffer too badly; it was still 
pretty good if you like thin, yet doughy crust. The cheese was 
browned and had a noticeably burnt tang to it: yuk! We liked the 
pepperoni, even though it too suffered from being cooked too 
long. The sauce needed a stronger flavor to make it more than 
just average.
The Specials
This week, we were presented with two small pies. The first 
was a white pizza (that is to say, no tomato sauce) with onions, 
mushrooms, tomato slices, spinach, and feta cheese. We liked 
this one, although it was a bit dry. The tomato slices were good 
and fresh, and there was just the right quantity of spinach.
The second, pie was topped with sausage, pepperoni, black 
olives, mushrboms, and green peppers. The sausage was tasty 
but looked a tad like rabbit droppings. Again, the pepperoni was 
good, especially since this time it wasn’t burned.
The Numbers
Crust: Thin, not too crispy. A low of 6 and a high of 8.
Sauce: Unfortunately nothing special. 5’s all around.
Cheese: Good when not burned. A low of 4 and a high of 7.
Pepperoni: We liked it. The lowest score was 5; the high was 8.
Special Toppings: Favorable reactions overall, with a low of 7 
and a high of 9.
The End
Overall, we’d have to say that Pizza Outlet is good. The 
downfall of the pepperoni was sufficiently offset by the quality of 
the special pies to give us an average rating of 6. Good stuff.
Editor’s Note: This will be the last installment of The Pizza 
Reviews, as Jon Slenk, a Carnegie Mellon alumnus and former 
®A Staff Member, has moved on to greener pastures (read: 
escaped the CMU funnel of employment). Good luck, Jon! The 
Tartan will miss you.
Oscar predictions point away from spotlight
By RICHARD S. LUBELL
Tartan Junior Stafjwriter
Each year, shortly after the 
groundhog, comes another sure 
sign of spring. In the middle of 
February, The Academy of Arts 
and Motion Picture Sciences an­
nounces its Oscar nominees for 
the movies of the previous year, 
the winners of which will be 
named on March 27.
Predicting the winners has be­
come a national pastime for 
people not interested in March 
Madness. Unlike the Cannes 
awards or the Golden Globes, the 
Academy Awards are based not 
only on performance, but also on 
past Oscar victories, career his­
tory, favoritism, and the some- 
times-twisted logic of Academy 
members. The casual observer’s 
guess seems as likely as Roger 
Eberts’.
This year, the Academy seems 
to have loosened up, giving mul­
tiple nominations to popular mov­
ies such as Forrest Gump and 
Pulp Fiction. British actors are 
not dominant as they have been 
in recent years, and there is no 
one picture likely to sweep all 
categories.
As a more-than-casual ob­
server, here are my predictions: 
Best Actor
Paul Newman, Nobody’s Fool 
Tom Hanks, Forrest Gump 
Nigel Hawthorne, The Madness 
of King George 
John Travolta, Pulp Fiction 
Morgan Freeman, The 
Shawshank Redemption 
Tom Hanks just won for Phila­
delphia, so he will not win this 
year. John Travolta, though he 
was impressive, pales next to 
nominees with more distin­
guished training or careers. Paul 
Newman is not likely to produce 
many more performances of the 
caliber of Nobody’s Fool, and to
give him an Oscar now would 
honor his lifetime achievements, 
as well as one good acting job. 
Winner: Paul Newman 
Best Actress 
Jodie Foster, Nell 
Miranda Richardson, Tom and 
Viv
Jessica Lange, Blue Sky 
Winona Ryder, Little Women
James
The Academy has given Quiz Show a box- 
office rebirth, and Robert Redford is expected 
to reap the benefits at Oscar time.
Susan Sarandon, The Client 
Jodie Foster has won two Os­
cars already, and to give her a 
third would put her in the com­
pany of immortals like Katherine 
Hepburn. Winona Ryder is young 
and will have many more chances; 
just a nomination is an accom­
plishment at this point.
Susan Sarandon, though she 
may be deserving, just can’t win 
with a movie from a John Grisham 
book. Jessica Lange has labored 
long in Hollywood, often gaining 
little attention; an Oscar would 
be a tribute to her efforts.
Winner: Jessica Lange 
Best Supporting Actor 
Samuel L. Jackson, Pulp Fic­
tion
Martin Landau, Ed Wood
Chazz Palminteri, Bullets Over 
Broadway 
Paul Scofield, Quiz Show 
Gary Sinise, Forrest Gump 
Gary Sinise is an accomplished 
actor but did not show his full 
range as Lieutenant Dan. Samuel 
L. Jackson works very hard and 
gets little notice for it, and an 
Oscar for him would also be a nod 
to Pulp Fiction. Mar­
tin Landau, how­
ever, has had a long 
career worthy of rec- 
ognition, and he 
gave a haunting per­
formance as Holly­
wood legend Bela 
Lugosi.
A close race be­
tween Jackson and 
Landau, but age 
wins in the end.
Winner: Martin 
Landau 
Best Support­
ing Actress 
Rosemary Harris, 
Tom and Viv 
Helen Mirren, The 
Madness of King 
George
Uma Thurman, Pulp Fiction 
Jennifer Tilly, Bullets Over 
Broadway 
Dianne Wiest, Bullets Over 
Broadway 
Though Woody Allen is a favor­
ite of the Academy, Bullets Over 
Broadway was not his best movie, 
so it’s hard to see either nominee 
from that film winning. Uma 
Thurman is another actress who 
is popular in Hollywood circles, 
but her role in Pulp Fiction was 
limited.
Helen Mirren, who played Ger­
man-born English queen Char­
lotte, is a versatile actress, and 
The Madness of King George en­
joyed an acclaimed run on the 
stage before being made into a 
film. Academy members tend to
like translations from theater. 
They like accents, too.
Winner: Helen Mirren 
Best Director 
Woody Allen, Bullets Over 
Broadway 
Robert Zemeckis, Forrest Gump 
Quentin Tarantino, Pulp Fic­
tion
Robert Redford, Quiz Show 
Krysztof Kieslowski, Red 
Robert Zemeckis, who directed 
Who Framed Roger Rabbit? and 
Back to the Future, suffers the 
same credibility problems that 
used to haunt Steven Spielberg. 
Krysztof Kieslowski is handi­
capped as director of a foreign 
language film.
Quentin Tarantino, darling of 
Cannes, has many years ahead of 
him to let his style mature. Just 
as Butch will win for his years of 
solid work, Sundance also will be 
recognized for his lifetime in mov­
ies.
Winner: Robert Redford 
Best Picture
Forrest Gump
Four Weddings and a Funeral 
Quiz Show 
Pulp Fiction
The Shawshank Redemption 
A tough call; with no Edith 
Wharton adaptations, there is no 
clear favorite. Forrest Gump, 
though a very entertaining movie, 
is not a fine film. Four Weddings 
and a Funeral is a surprising 
nomination; as a romantic com­
edy it will go no further.
Pulp Fiction comes from a very 
young writer/director; the Acad­
emy will wait to give him the top 
award. The Shaw shank Redemp­
tion did poorly at the box offices; 
Academy members have been 
known to vote without seeing all 
the nominees.
Robert Redford will recieve ex­
tra acknowledgement for an in­
triguing, satirical film.
Winner: Quiz Show

---------------------------------------------------

PAPA JOHN’S VALUE MENU
10" Small14” Large16” Extra Large
Cheese Pizza4.956.959.95
One Topping5.657.9510.95
Two Topping6.358.9511.95
Three Topping7.059.9512.95
Four Topping7.7510.9513.95
Five Topping8.4511.9514.95
Garden Special7.2510.2513.25
Mushrooms. Onion, Green Pepper, & Black Olives
The Works™8.4511.9514.95
Pepperoni, Ham, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onion, Green Peppers, & Black Olives
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Party Special.
TOPPINGS
Ham
Pepperoni 
Sausage 
Ground Beef 
Bacon 
Anchovies 
Extra Cheese 
Mushrooms 
Onions 
Black Olives 
Green Olives 
Green Peppers 
Jalapeiio Peppers
EXTRAS
Breadsticks........................................... 1.79
Delicious oven-baked sticks with plenty 
of Papa John’s Special Galic Sauce &
Nacho Cheese Sauce
Extras............................................................28
Extra Pepperoncini, Special Galic 
Sauce, Nacho Green Sauce
Cheesesticks....................................... 3.20
A Chicago-cut taste treat smothered in 
cheese & Special Garlic Sauce
Drinks.............................................................61
12 oz. can of Coca-Cola® classic,
Spritd® or diet Cokd®
Prices do not include sales tax
Party Special»
One 14" Large with The Works-, 
& One 14” Large Two Toppings
One 
14" Large 
One Topping 
OR 
Two 
14” Large 
One Topping
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Perfect Brunch or 
Late Night Munch
One 10" Pizza One Topping & 
Two Cans of Coca-Cola classic
$C99
+tax
(Daily 11 am-4pm, 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores _
The, Fir/ect Pizza/
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig
682-7272
Carryout Special
One 14” Large One Topping
Systems Manager
The Tartan Newspaper is on the lookout for a new systems 
manager. We reckon the job means software and hardware ' 
buyin’; hookin’ up and fixing ’em; training the local folk; 
an’ troubleshooting them pesky computers.
If you’ve got a good head under your hat (10 gallon pre­
ferred), you can join the Tartan Editorial Board, have com­
plete access to the office computers, and get lots o' loot. So 
round up them wagons an1 head on over to Student Center 
Room 104. Boots required.
Providing a new twist in copper™
• Developer of VLSI Chips and Products for High-Speed 
T elecommunications
, • One of the Fastest Growing High Technology 
Companies in the United States
• Market Leader with More than 80% Market Share
• Revenues of $60 Million Per Year
® Located in Tustin, California
® Seeking Students and Graduates for Intern and 
Full-Time Positions
- Digital Design Engineering
- Eectrical Engineering
- Software Engineering
; Please join us for a TECHNICAL INFO. SESSION to be held in the 
: Student Center, Room 206, from 7-9 p.m. on March 8,1995.
; *Refreshments will be served.
Please sign up at the Career Center for ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWING 
: which will be held at 19 Wemer Hall, from 9-4:30 on March 9, 1995.
Writing Contest
Adamson Awards 
for Excellence in Writing
Contest is open to all registered CMU 
students. There are 5 different 
categories: fiction, poetry, screen- 
writing, non-fiction for academic 
journals, and non-fiction for magazines.
Undergraduates may enter any or all 
of the 5 categories; graduate students 
may enter the two non-fiction 
categories only.
Guideline booklets are available in the 
English Department, Baker Hall 259.
SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 
AWARDS CEREMONY:
FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1995
Voted the ^ 1 
Pizza in Pittsburgh 
by the Post Gazette.
Our competitors 
pizza was com­
pared to “card­
board with sauce.”
Try the rest, buy 
the best!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 27 February 1995L9
Thursday, March 2
The Lady Vanishes
The lady doesn’t dance. The lady don’t rock and 
roll. The lady isn’t into Hummel miniatures. The 
lady doesn’t wear tennis shoes. Yes, folks, the 
lady vanishes.
Another Big A1 Hitchcock hit, this movie is 
about an old lady who, guess what, vanishes, and 
a young lady who gets enmeshed in a web of 
intrigue and nefarious spy-related things after 
she gets it into her head to find her. Starring 
Paul Lukas and this crazy cat named Googie 
Withers, this 1938 film is a classically witty and 
fun mystery.
Let’s see. What else. It was directed by old 
Alfred and is in black and white. What’s weird 
about black and white is that the black parts of 
the image are only as black as the screen they’re 
shown on. That means all those really dark parts 
are really kind of grey if you think about it. Neat, 
huh? Or, at least, I think that’s how it works.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, March 3
The Puppet Masters
Another Big Stuart Orme hit, this movie is 
about the earth which, guess what, gets attacked 
by giant starfish things, and a young man who 
gets enmeshed in a web of intrigue and nefarious 
alien-related things after he gets it into his head 
to blow them all up. Starring Donald Sutherland 
and this crazy cat named Julie Wamer, this 1994 
film is a classically witty and fun sci-fi flick.
Let’s see. What else. It was directed by old 
Stuart and is in color. What’s weird about black 
and white is that the black parts of the image are 
only as black as the screen they’re shown on. 
That means all those really dark parts are really 
kind of grey if you think about it. Neat, huh? Or, 
at least, I think that’s how it works. It’s also 
based on a book by Robert Heinlein.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, March 4
Saturday Night Fever
John Travolta used to be a bad actor. Can you 
believe it? Actually, I’m overly cruel. John 
Travolta is still a bad actor, even though he shot 
people real good in Pulp Fiction. However, if you 
want to see some classic Travolta bad acting, see 
Saturday Night Fever.
See, this is the story of Travolta and his posse 
that go out and dance to the Bee Gees every night 
and hope to become priests or something. There 
is plenty of sex and lots of bad language and lots 
of dancing, so you really can’t go wrong. If you’ve 
seen it before, see it again. If you’re seeing it 
again, see it before.
At 6, 8:10,10:20 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, March 5
Fearless Fighters
The guy in this film used to be a bad actor. Can 
you believe it? Actually, I’m overly cruel. The guy 
is still a bad actor, even though he shot people 
real good in whatever else he was in. However, if 
you want to see some classic ’50s bad acting, see 
Fearless Fighters.
See, this is the story of this guy and his posse 
that go out and rob graves to the Bee Gees every 
night and hope to become fighters or mob people 
or something. There is no sex and very little bad 
language and lots of dancing, so you really can’t 
go wrong. If you’ve seen it before, see it again. If 
you’re seeing it again, see it before.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
BY JOHN BIGGS
Carnegie Museum showcases director
By WLADEVHR. LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
The ’60s are generally viewed as a time of 
revolution in practically all aspects of west­
ern civilization. From music to politics, from 
lifestyle to gender roles, people managed to 
change a considerable number of things. Of 
course, film was not an exception. ’The 60s 
saw the rise of quite a few radical film 
movements, the most famed of all perhaps 
being the French New Wave, whose only 
convention was that of viewing the camera 
as a literary medium. The movement’s par­
ticipants (or rather perpetrators) are now 
considered regular film geniuses. Just men­
tion the name Godard to any film buff or 
double-chinned bourgeois, and you’ll sure 
get lots of praiseful gibberish (or, if you’re 
lucky, some meaningful statements, depend­
ing on the film buff you consult). As part of 
its Director’s series, the Carnegie Museum 
of Art is showing a comprehensive retro­
spective of one of the main (and probably the 
most obscure) figures of the French New 
Wave: Eric Rohmer.
Like most of his fellow “nouvelle-vagrants,” 
Rohmer got his film education by frequent­
ing the Cinematheque in Paris. Later on, he 
wrote for film journals before embarking 
into making films. Perhaps due to his style 
(of which I’ll try to talk later on), Rohmer 
didn’t get a great filmmaker’s reputation 
with his first films, despite these being pro­
duced by his more successful pal Claude 
Chabrol. After his first feature, The Sign of 
Leo, Rohmer came up with one of his most 
famous projects, the six Moral Tales, which
finally brought him some attention from film 
circles. After that there was a brief stint at 
making historical films and later, some urban 
stories. His latest project is the 4 seasons 
tetralogy which is only halfway finished as of 
now.
All that seems fine and dandy, but what 
makes an Eric Rohmer film? Why do some 
people (including Quentin Tarantino) assert 
that Rohmer’s movies constitute a genre by 
themselves? As a participant of the New Wave, 
Rohmer was concerned with bringing a differ­
ent kind of expression to film. One of the 
favorite dictums of the time was that the 
fundamental problem of cinema is how to 
express thought (not action). The movement 
strived to give to film the subtlety and power 
of literature without losing the tradition of 
visual art. That may sound easier than it is, 
and each filmmaker tried to achieve that in a 
different way. Truffaut may revel in complex, 
lyrical childhood fables, Godard may choose to 
just spit in your face. Rohmer chose a far more 
subtle approach. In a way he distanced his 
style from that of his colleagues basically by 
refusing to announce a film revolution in every 
single frame. Rohmer is fascinated with char­
acters and places. To a certain extent, a Rohmer 
film is the product of the place and the season, 
not of a script and a montage. For Rohmer, the 
real structure of our lives is in the everyday 
gestures, the everyday details that serve as a 
surface for the most complex emotions. That’s 
what he tries to show in his films. He tried 
these notions first in his invented structure of 
the Moral Tales. These six films (two of them 
short films) were produced by Rohmer and 
Barbet Schroeder. They are La boulangere de
Monceau; La Carriere de Suzanne; La 
Collectioneuse] My night at Maud's’, Claire’s 
knee and Chloe in the afternoon. These films 
are, on a basic level, variations of the follow­
ing theme: boy loves girl, boy gets attracted 
to another, boy returns to first woman (after 
lots of introspection and temptation). With 
this outline, Rohmer set out to show a series 
of characters that express their thoughts 
freely. However, the name Moral in these 
films doesn’t come with an ethic behind 
them. Rohmer defines the “moraliste” as 
“someone extremely concerned with what 
goes on inside man.” In other words, some­
one who is constantly analyzing thoughts 
and feelings, especially their own.
However simplistic this idea may sound, 
the films are far from that. The threads in 
the films are put together so tightly that the 
final fabric may seem trivial. Actually each; 
of these films brings forth issues and ques­
tions profound enough to feed at least a 
couple of Ph.D. dissertations. However, the; 
intent of these movies is not to show off 
literary background, but to express it exclu­
sively in terms of everyday life. Rohmer 
makes a point of using nonprofessional ac­
tors and of making the circumstances of the' 
surroundings to play out in the story. 
Subtlety must be this man’s middle name. It 
should be interesting to find whether all of 
this actually makes sense through this film 
series.
The Eric Rohmer film series kicks off Thurs­
day, March 2, at the Carnegie MOA with The 
sign of Leo and the first of the Moral Tales. 
Check the Carnegie schedule for show times. :
Yum Wok serves indistinguishable entrees
ANCIENT CHINESE SECRETS
By Ido Ben-Shachar 
and Aaron Weisberg
The results of our Free Chinese Food con­
test are in! Although it was tough, we finally 
narrowed the thousands of entries down to 
two.
Michele Forney, a junior chem major, had 
this to say: “From the bland but healthy 
steamed rice to the amazingly tasty General 
Tso’s chicken, I can’t ask for more! I can’t say 
it enough.... I love Chinese food!”
Lynn Babyak, a junior biology major, pro­
claimed her love for Chinese food in this 
beautiful soliloquy: “I only have one thing to 
say: Stuff your face, and eat again an hour 
later.... Enough said!”
Well, in actuality, these are the only two 
entries we got, but they moved us so much 
that we can’t choose between them. We say, 
“Chinese food all around,” and believe both 
contestants deserve (and need) Free Chi­
nese Food. That, and we’re feeling generous 
because our tax refunds just came in.
Both Lynn and Michele will be escorted by 
the Ancient Chinese Secrets posse to alovely 
Chinese restaurant, where all their Chinese 
dreams will come true. Surrounded by infi­
nite amounts of Chinese food, we hope we 
canbring happiness toatleastafewCamegie 
Mellon students.
Something very odd happened this week. 
Both of us were feeling a bit under the 
weather due to circumstances beyond our 
control, and through deception andintrigue, 
we were tricked into going to a non-Chinese
Northwestern 
Summer Session ’95
restaurant. In our delirious states, we were 
convinced by the evil “Rark Madel” (whose 
name has been changed, to protect the inno­
cent) that the Italian Oven actually special­
izes in Hunan cuisine.
Obviously, we were duped, because in real­
ity, there were no crispy noodles, no fortune 
cookies, no tea, not even chopsticks.
Then, to top this off, we found ourselves the 
next day in a Mexican restaurant. How did 
this happen? We’re not quite sure .... Some­
how, we were walking to Shadyside to get 
Chinese food, and we ended up in Cozumel. By 
the time we realized where we were, it was too 
late: we were surrounded by tacos and 
guacamole. We are accustomed to the tiring 
effects of MSG, but we were not at all prepared 
for the effects that the Mexican food had on our 
large intestines. The point of all this is that we 
have once again reaffirmed in our minds the 
undeniable superiority of Chinese food over 
everything else. As our friend Larry puts it, 
“It’s the broccoli.”
Unfortunately, the Chinese restaurant we 
went to this week is worse than both the 
Italian Oven and Cozumel. In short, Yum Wok 
(400 South Craig Street in Oakland, 687-7777) 
blows monkeys. When our posse heard that we 
were going to journey into Oakland to volun­
tarily eat at Yum Wok (in the name of journal­
ism), they deserted us. Thus, alone and afraid, 
the Dynamic Duo suffered so you all won’t 
have to.
When we entered Yum Wok, we stood at the 
counter and ordered. We noticed that the de­
cor resembled that of many New York sub­
ways.
We immediately got our “Cokes,” the tradi­
tional and typical beverage of China, and sat 
down with our plastic trays and utensils to 
wait for our glorious meal.
First came the fried rice. It was bland, and 
the beef pieces in it had a very strange after­
taste. In fact, they were sort of rubbery, and 
made a squishy noise when you bit into them.
We then were given Orange Beef particles,
lovingly served on a styrofoam platter. We’ll 
come back to this.
They did give individual bowls of white 
rice with our meals, but unfortunately we 
suspect Uncle Ben had something to do with 
it. Usually, we use white rice to clear the 
palate between dishes, but in this case, it 
didn’t help.
Finally, our General Tso’s arrived, but if 
General Tso were alive today, he’d be rolling 
over in his grave. We’re not sure if this dish 
was made out of chicken or remnants of; 
General Tso’s corpse. But either way, it had 
been dead for quite some time.
Being bored at Yum Wok, we decided to 
perform an interesting experiment. Ido, hav­
ing closed his eyes, was to sample either a 
piece of the General Tso’s Chicken, or a piece 
of the Orange Beef, as randomly selected by 
Aaron. Ido would then guess which he had 
just ingested.
We find it rather humorous that Ido, con­
noisseur of Chinese food, could not accu­
rately differentiate between the two dishes.; 
This was a sad day indeed.
All in all, we did not enjoy our experience 
at Yum Wok. In fact, this was probably the 
least enjoyable experience of our lives (and 
we’ve been circumcised). The food was 
ghastly overpriced; it is interesting to note 
that for the nine dollars each we paid at Yum1 
Wok, we could have had a wonderful meal at 
any of the other restaurants we have visited 
this semester.
There was no broccoli, the chopsticks gave 
us splinters, and at least four times during 
the meal, we were forced to expectorate 4 
piece of “meat” that was unchewable. We 
give Yum Wok half a Tso out of five.
Fortune of the week: “Don’t go to Yum 
Wok. Ever. Your children will thank you 
someday.”
And where are we going next week?! An­
cient Chinese secret! (But not Yum Wok).
Everything under the sun.
At Northwestern’s Summer Session 
you'll find the same variety of courses 
we offer during the rest of the year: 
more than 300 courses in everything 
from anthropology to storytelling. Each 
summer students from all over the 
country earn a full year’s credit in our 
intensives in chemistry, physics, and 
languages. Consider Summer Session
at Northwestern, w here you can study 
almost everything under the sun.
Noteworthy in ’95: Field schools in 
archaeology, environmental studies, 
ethnography, and urhan studies and a 
six-week program in Prague.
For more information, please call 
1-800-FINDS NU.
For a free copy of the Summer Session ’95 
catalog, call 1-800-FINDS NU (in Illinois, call 
708-491-5250), fax your request to 
708-491-3660, e-mail your request to 
summer95@nwu.edu, or mail this coupon to 
Summer Session ’95,2115 North Campus Drive, 
Suite 162, Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650.
Send the catalog to O my home O my school.
Name
School Address
CityStateZip
Home Address
City State Zip
North*tstem is in equil opportunity, ifTtrnutht action educator and emplojcr.

---------------------------------------------------

WUÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊHÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊMHBHHR
car
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents Anton 
Chekhov’s classic “The Cherry Orchard” in reper­
tory with the contemporary “Stars in the Morning 
Sky” by Alexander Galin until March 11 at the 
Kresge Theatre.
Hewlett Gallery presents a computer art instal­
lation “Pages from the Book of Skies” by sculptor 
Rob Fisher, in collaboration with Andrew Witkin, 
Carnegie Mellon professor of computer science 
and robotics. The exhibit will run through March 
18. Admission is free.
Forbes Gallery will be showcasing the work of 
graduating seniors in the Art Department: Guilia 
Loli and Brandy Auld will be featured from Feb­
ruary 28 - March 5. The reception will take place 
March 3 from 7-9 pm.
Saltworks Theatre Company presents the mu­
sical Narnia based on the classictale The Lion, the 
Witch, and the Wardrobe. Performances will be 
held at the Eddy Theatre in Chatham College, 
March 23-26, March 30, April 2 and April 6 — 9, 
with show times at 8 pm on Thursdays, Fridays 
and Saturdays; and 3 pm on Saturdays and Sun­
days. Tickets are $11 for adults, $9.50 for seniors, 
and $8 for children. For additional information, 
please contact the Saltworks Box Office at 687- 
8884.negim
The Lady Vanishes will be playing in Doherty 
Hall 2210 on Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and mid­
night.
The Puppet Masters will play Friday in Doherty 
Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday Night Fever will be shown this Satur­
day at 6, 8:10,10:20 pm and 12:30 am.
Fearless Fighters is playing Sunday in Doherty 
Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
cd2b, call 862-2151, or subscribe to 
assocs.KenpoJKarate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet­
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information, call 268-2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email kl3x or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na­
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm at MM103 (Breed Hall). See bulletin board 
near the front of Doherty Hall for information on 
upcoming activities.
Carnegie Mellon Vegetarians meets at 9 pm 
on Thursday nights in DH1217. For more infor­
mation, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
The CMU Shotokan Karate Club meets on 
Thursdays at 7:30 pm and Saturdays at 11:30 am 
in Thistle Hall. Advanced classes meet on Tues­
days in Activity Room A in the gym at 6:30 pm.
The Modern Languages Department invites 
you to join their International Language Tables 
for lunch in the Morewood Food Court. Wednes­
days at 12:30-1:30 pm there is the French table 
and the Russian table. On Thursdays, join the 
German table at 11:30 am - 12:30 pm, and on 
Fridays, the Japanese table from 12-1 pm. From
12-1 pm there is the Spanish table in the Hu­
manities and Social Sciences Student Lounge on 
Wednesdays. Also, on Wednesdays at 12:30-1:30 
pm, in the GSIA Commons, there is an Italian 
table.
illreó.m
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-de- 
nominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Meetings are held Tuesdays at 7 
pm in the Cathedral of Learning room 236. Call 
Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for information.
The Fencing Club meets on Sundays at 2 pm, 
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays at 6:30 pm in 
the Fencing Club Room (formerly Activity Room 
B) in the main gym. For more information, please 
email cd2b, call 862-2899, or subscribe to 
cmu.student.fencing.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the main 
gym. For additional information, you can email
LY —
Thanks for the sweetest remarks.
Your loved one,
Nati.
I need some coffee — make that a cup of Brazilian 
Santos, please.
Why are KY stains insoluble?
Michelle —
You think you a writer (you are chica!)
— Shan
Bethany, 
Bob Dylan!
— Nati
*thump* *thump* *thump* 
wookie.
Kami —
Buena suerte chica!
Que chevre presidente!
— La escritora de “El Amor Increíble” y 
Juan Suave.
Why is it called taking a dump when 
you’re actually not taking anything?
“Long Ago and Far Away,” a children’s con­
cert, will be performed March 5 at 2:30 pm at 
Manchester Craftmen’s Guild. Performedby GRP 
recording artists, the New York Voices, the con­
cert will introduce children to a variety of music 
styles. Tickets are $5. For more information, call 
322-0800.
óVre3lm
ifme3
The Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
present LiveOak & Company in a program en­
titled “Lanterns of Fire,” vocal and instrumental 
music of Renaissance Spain, March 4 at 8 pm in 
Synod Hall, 125 North Craig Street. Tickets are 
available at Classical Tracks, Pitt Student Union, 
Carnegie Mellon Student Information Desk, or by 
calling 682-7262. Ticket prices are $25, $19, $13 
and $7 for full-time students with ID.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
present the Cleveland Quartet and “King of 
Klezmer” Giora Feidman on March 6 at 8 pm at 
the Carnegie Music Hall. Ticket holders are in­
vited to a pre-concert conversation with members 
of the Cleveland Quartet. A lobby Concert featur­
ing the Duquesne University CelloandPiano Duo 
will follow at 7:30. Tickets are $7 for students, 
and otherwise $25. For information, call Joan 
Sher at 624-4129.
River City Brass Band presents “Those Fabu­
lous Fifties” on March 11 at the Carnegie Music 
Hall at 8 pm. For reservations, call 322-RCBB.
The New Works Festival, dedicated to the 
writing and production of one-act plays, is ac­
cepting scripts for the 1995 season. Deadline for 
the submission of plays is April 20,1995. The 
rules are as follows: previously submitted scripts 
are ineligible. No musicals will be accepted. 
Plays cannot have been professionally produced 
or published. Informal stage reading is 
permissable. Amaximum length of 45 minutes is 
strictly enforced. There must be eight characters 
or less requiring only simple sets. Please send 
two copies of the script with a cover letter includ­
ing name, address and phone number to: New 
Works Festival, 125 Melvin Drive, Pittsburgh, 
PA. 15236. For more information please contact 
Donna Rae at 655-9224.
CMU Celtic Society is putting together a chap- 
book with the theme: “Our Celtic Heritage.” 
They are looking for poetry, essays, short stories, 
illustrations, and photography that explore the 
issues dealing with this theme. All accepted 
contributors will receive a copy of the chapbook. 
Deadline for submission is March 31. All work 
must be submitted with a biography of150-200 
words providing context for the pieces. Submis­
sions can be sent by email to celt, or mailed to: 
Chapbook Editor, Celtic Society, Carnegie Mellon 
University, Box6055,4902Forbes Avenue, Pitts­
burgh, PA 15213-3799. Physical submissions 
should include a self-addressed stamped enve­
lope for returned submissions and acceptance 
notice.
The Carnegie Mellon Community Service 
Awards are given to recognize the meaningful 
service students are providing to the Greater 
Pittsburgh or campus community. This service 
should be on-going over a semester either with 
one organization or a variety. All Carnegie Mellon 
undergraduate and graduate students are 
elligible. Students can be nominated by any 
Carnegie Mellon student, staff, or faculty mem­
ber. In order to do so, please fill out a nomination 
form available at various locations on campus 
including the Information Desk in the Student 
Center and the Office of Student Affairs, Warner 
Hall 301.
Free income tax preparation assistance is
available at the Allegheny Campus of the Com­
munity College of Allegheny County through the 
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program 
(VITA) on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday af­
ternoons from 1—4 pm and Saturdays from 9 am-
12 pm through April 12. Volunteers will be 
available in the Library Building, room L218E, 
on the campus which is located at 808 Ridge
Avenue on the North Shore. Individuals inter- 
ested in taking advantage of this free service 
should bring all relevant tax documents such as, 
Form W-2 for salary; Form 1099 for interest^ 
dividends, and pensions; a copy of their 1993 taj 
return; and the tax form package received in the 
mail from the Internal Revenue Service. For infer, 
mation, call 237-4675.
Hillel’s Jewish University Center invites you 
to join them for NBC night, every Thursday from 
8 pm to 11 pm. From Mad About You to ER, enjoy 
munchies and good company at the JUC. For 
information, email rsbj.
alge.eVó
Bible Study will be hosted by Tech House 
(Roselawn 15) every Sunday night at 9 pm. All are 
invited. For additional information, please call 
268-2484.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Student 
Center room 224, Monday through Friday. Week­
end Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm 
every Sunday in Posner Hall. For additional infor­
mation, contact the Newman Oratory Center at 
681-3181.
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Av­
enu e (near South Craig Street), offers and cel­
ebrates Eucharist every Wednesday at noon and 
Sunday at 11 am. Call 682-6886 for information.
The Choral Compline at Heinz Chapel pre­
sents guest organist, C. JohnThickey, from Calvin 
Presbyterian Church, on March 5 at 9:30 pm at 
the Lutheran University Center.
Hillel’s Jewish University Center, 4551 Forbes 
Avenue, atop Cafe Arabica, celebrates Shabbat on 
Fridays with good food, good friends and good 
times at 6 pm. Call 621-8875 for information or 
email hc89.
Muslim Students Association holds daily mid­
day prayers at 1:40 pm in the Student Center 
room 224. A study circle follows on Saturday. 
Please email or finger msa for information.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelow 
Blvd., holds the five daily prayers and during 
Ramadan also has taraweeh and free ifiar. Friday 
prayers are at 12:15 pm. Call 682-5555 for infor­
mation.
Eid-el-fitr will be celebrated with a potluck din­
ner on March 2 from 5-7 pm in the West Wing TV 
Lounge. Contact Jehanzeb at x2-2848 or through 
email at jsbo or msa.
The men’s and women’s indoor track team 
will be competing at the UAA Championships at 
Brandeis University on March 3-4.
Will DC ever eat without his highchair? 
Ken—
Whazzup? Whazzup? Whazzzzzup?
SG,
I love her!!!
—NL
Will Guittos and mice ever get along?
Paul,
BRADY BUNCH!
— Natalie.
Can a Beta live in a Pitt sorority?
Zeppelin quote of the week:
“Lots of people talkin’, few of them know, soul of woman was created below!” 
Do Wookies like to study O-Chem?
Please submit Vox Populi announcements. Deadline for entries is March 9. 
Announcements should be 20 words or less. Drop them off at the Tartan office in 
the Student Center or email ra37.
