The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 4, September 27, 1983.
Security^ responds to emergency^
Three freshmen hospitalized for drinking
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
Three male freshmen were taken to Shad- 
yside Hospital in the early hours of Satur­
day, September 17. All three were having 
difficulties breathing and had been vomit­
ing after consuming large amounts of whis­
key in a short time.
- At 11:59 p.m., security received a call 
from the RA on duty in Morewood Gardens 
E tower. A male freshman was unconscious 
and experiencing difficulty breathing.
- At 2:23 a.m. security was called again to
EE changes 
name, option
By STEVEN VOLAN
Tartan Staffuniter
As of the 1983-84 academic year, the 
Carnegie-Mellon Electrical Engineering 
(EE) Department has officially changed its 
title to the Electrical and Computer Engi­
neering (ECE) Department. The decision, 
which had been under discussion by the 
department faculty since November of 1982, 
was passed with a unanimous vote, offi­
cially taking effect this past July.
According to Stephen Director, the head 
of the newly-renamed ECE Department, the 
EE degree itself is not changing. “We have 
instituted Computer Engineering as an 
undergraduate option,” said Professor 
Director in an interview Tuesday. “The next 
time we are up for accreditation. . .we will 
head towards an accredited degree in Com­
puter Engineering as well as [the already 
existing degree in] EE.” The ECE Depart­
ment, which was reaccredited this year, will 
repeat the process in 1988.
Students wishing to major in electrical 
engineering with emphasis on computer 
before 1988 now may take computer engi­
neering as a subdivision < >f their main course 
of study in EE with the resulting degree 
appearing on their diplomas as B.S. E.E. 
(Computer Engineering). By the end of the 
next reaccreditation process, computer engi­
neering will become a distinct degree pro­
gram (B.S. in Computer Engineering), 
provided that present departmental plans 
continue to completion.
in this issue
Editorial
Drinkers irresponsible.......................page 2
News
Center improves teaching................page 6
ITC sponsors computer seminars . page 7
Features
Kopelev speaks on Russia................page 9
Belew lectures.......................................page 9
Entertainment
Peter Tosh interviewed..................page 11
Octopussy reviewed.........................page 11
Sports
Tartans kill defending champs .. page 15
Diving in Pittsburgh.......................page 17
Morewood Gardens E tower. Another male 
freshman was having difficulties breathing 
and had been vomiting.
- At 3:13 a.m. security was called to More­
wood Gardens E tower again. A third male 
freshman was having problems breathing 
and was vomiting.
According to a Security report, the first 
freshman was found by friends in the frater­
nity quadrangle and was brought back to 
his room. The Security report said that he 
had consumed an excessive amount of whis­
key in a short period of time. At 1:27 that
Frosh courses
SCDC offers
By KELLEY CULMER
Tartan Staffwritrr
The Student Counseling and Develop­
ment Center started its second year 
of free tutoring sessions on Monday, 
September 19. They will run through the rest 
of the semester. Among the courses being 
tutored this year are Calculus, Chemistry, 
Physics, H&SS Math (any math taken by 
people in H&SS), and Writing Skills, a new 
addition. Program coordinator Dr. 
Roseanne Hickey hopes to increase student 
awareness of the service and participation in 
this year’s sessions.
The sessions are held Monday through 
Thursday 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. in various 
rooms in Baker and Porter Halls. Each sub­
ject is tutored by undergraduates majoring 
in the area and carrying exceptionally high 
QPA’s. They were interviewed by the Coun­
seling Center staff and chosen on the basis of 
their interest, eagerness and of course grades. 
Each tutor is stationed in a room where
morning Security was notified by Shadyside 
Hospital that he had been placed in inten­
sive care. Security immediately contacted a 
member of the Dean’s Office at home and 
informed him of the problem.
According to the RA, at around midnight 
he received a call from a student saying that 
the freshman was sick. When the RA arrived 
in the room, the freshman was unconscious, 
in convulsions, and had a congested airway. 
Also in the room were three ZBT brothers 
and the student who had called him. The RA 
called Security, who took the freshman to
tutoring
students are encouraged to walk in with any 
questions they might have. Calculus will be 
held in Porter Hall room 225B, Chemistry 
in Porter 226A, Physics in Porter 226B, 
H&SS Math in Porter 226C and Writing 
Skills in Baker Hall room 229B. Don’t 
expect the tutors to do your homework for 
you because they won’t, but they will help 
give you a basic grounding in the subject.
The Writing Skills sessions are new this 
year and are designed to help with any writ­
ing for any subject — not just English. This 
is expected to be erf more help than the pre­
vious English tutoring sessions.
Dr. Hickey would like to see more stu­
dents taking advantage of this program, 
especially the freshmen so they can get the 
help they need and get started on the right 
foot. She also encourages any student with a 
special difficulty to make arrangements 
with the Center, located in Morewood D 
Towner, for special help.
Shadyside Hospital.
The RA also said the freshman stopped 
breathing on the way to the hospital and 
when he arrived his face was blue. His alco­
hol content was 0.41. (Shadyside Hospital 
considers 0.5 a lethal dose, although this 
varies). The RA reported a nurse said that 
five minutes more and the student would 
have died. He had been drinking shots of 
Jim Beam whiskey at ZBT.
The RA commented, “The Zebes tried to 
be as helpful as possible but were hesitant to 
call [Security] because they were worried 
they would get in trouble.” He also said that 
the student had taken responsibility for 
what had happened.
According to the student’s RA , the stu­
dent was not breathing on the wrav to the 
hospital and was in critical condition. At 
Shadyside Hospital his throat was cleared 
and he was revived and placed in intensive 
care. His RA said that the student had left for 
DTD’s wine and cheese party around 10:30, 
spending around 45 minutes there. He then 
went to ZBT where he drank a few beers and 
attempted to break the freshman record of 28 
shots. His RA said the student drank 24 
shots in twenty minutes.
The freshman would not comment 
except to say he is alive and well.
In the second case, Security was told 
another freshman had also consumed a 
large amount of alcohol. He was held at 
Shadyside Hospital until 6:46 that morning.
The first RA returned from the hospital 
and found the second student “dumped” (as 
he was told) in a bathroom stall. The stu­
dent was semi-conscious, but still breathing. 
The RA called Security, and both he and the 
other RA went to Shadyside Hospital with 
the student. The first RA said the student 
could walk but had to be supported. Accord­
ing to the student’s floormates, some ZBT 
brothers had brought him back to 
Morewood.
The second RA said that the freshman 
had first gone to ZBT, where he consumed 
around seven to ten shots of whiskey, and 
then to DTD. He returned to ZBT and drank 
about ten more shots of whiskey.
The student was not available for 
comment.
The RA’s returned from the hospital and 
another freshman was already being 
wheeled out on a stretcher. One RA said that 
his floormates had found him passed out 
and sick in his room, and had called 
Security.
The second RA said the student’s friends 
helped him back to his room and put him to 
bed. The student’s roommate found him, 
and another person called security.
According eo the student, he went to ZB1 
at around 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., drank six to 
ten shots of whiskey, and then went to DU, 
where he had one or two beers. He then went 
to the AB Dance. He left to go to DTD, and 
had one or two glasses of wine. He returned 
to ZBT and drank more whiskey. He said a 
friend from the floor had brought him back. 
When asked if he had felt any pressure to 
drink, he said, “It was pretty much my own 
choice.”
Eran Marom, ZBT President, was unable 
to comment until after the University Disci­
plinary hearing. The hearing was to be held 
continiMd on page fi
photo by Bob Fishrl
Jim Morrisson contributed to the Tartans' win over Hiram, 46-0.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Irresponsibility is dangerous—maybe deadly
Students on this campus need to take 
more responsibility for their actions.
Recently a freshman almost died at a 
fraternity party because he tried to break 
the drinking record of 28 shots. After 24 
shots he passed out and was carried to 
Morewood. The brothers involved didn’t 
even call Security to take the freshman to 
the hospital.
This is the same fraternity that, a year 
ago, held a “drink-a-thon” to raise money 
for a party.
The disciplinary hearing for the frater­
nity will be held today. While some pun­
ishment more than a slap on the wnst 
should be imposed for this carelessness, 
more effort should be placed on making 
sure this does not happen again.
The blame for this incident does not lie 
totally with the fraternity, however. The 
freshman went to the party willingly,
though he probably felt some pressure to 
continue drinking once he started, and 
after 10 or 12 shots he wasn’t sober enough 
to realize the danger.
This is just one example of the careless 
attitude that students are taking toward 
alcohol. Why should it be some sort of ' 
honor to drink so much alcohol in such a 
short period of ume? Don’t people have 
anything better to do with their dme and 
money?
Every fall, freshmen swarm the fraterni­
ties. It’s not the company that they’re seek­
ing; it’s the beer. And getdng totally wasted 
in as short a dme as possible seems to be the 
object of Friday and Saturday nights.
This is the way things are now. But if 
students just try to exercise a litde restraint 
and common sense, then things can run 
much more smoothly.
Student Affairs is considering banning
all hard liquor from fraternity parties for 
the rest of the semester. This won’t change 
much, though. The change needs to come 
in people’s atdtudes.
There is nothing wrong with a beer after 
classes, or a glass of wine with a meal. 
When this gets carried to extremes, how­
ever, it becomes a threat to everyone. The 
fact that one of the greatest values in a 
fraternity is the amount of alcohol some­
one can consume doesn’t say much for 
either the members of the fraternity or the 
people they are attracting.
The atdtudes are just all wrong.
We are not suggesung a ban on alcohol. 
We are not suggesdng that the alcohol pol­
icy be made any more strict. The policy 
allows a lot of freedom to students, as long 
as they do their drinking in private. This 
makes sense. But parties encourage 
recklessness.
And recklessness can be deadly.
World's politics haven't changed since Plato
By Nate Solano
In a recent conversation with my friend 
Chap (nice name, huh?), he requested that I 
devote a column to the ills of the present 
world and thus the following:
We live in a rather unsteady 
environment at best. A second 
Cold War long ago replaced 
U.S./Soviet detente, the Middle 
East has become more volatile than a 
dumpster, the U.S. has lost much.qf its com­
petitive advantage in the world market, the 
threat of nuclear war looms over each of our 
“ever so small” heads, and perhaps most 
sadly, governments world-wide have 
thought it necessary to postpone the pro­
gression erf human rights in return for 
security.
Let us now draw upon the support erf 
noted scholars in the condemnation of inter­
national governing mechanisms.
“... In every case the laws are made by 
the ruling party in its own interest; a 
democracy' makes democratic laws, a 
despot autocratic ones, and so on. By 
making these laws they define as 
"right” for their subjects whatever is 
for their own interest, and they call 
anyone who breaks them a “wTong- 
doer” and punish him accordingly ...
So the sound conclusion is that what 
is “right” is the same everywhere: the 
interest of the stronger party.”
— PLATO 
Whoops, bad example. Plato said this a
pretty long time ago and so it’s probably not 
too pertinent to the present. But that’s okay, 
I have many more quotes, like this one:
“A prince should therefore have no 
other aim or thought, nor take up any 
other thing for his study, but war and 
its organization and discipline, for 
that is the only art that is necessary to 
one who commands, and it is of such 
virtue that it not only maintains those 
who are bom princes, but often ena­
bles men of private fortune to attain to 
that rank,”
— MACH LA VELLI 
I guess this isn’t a very good example 
either. I mean, well, the quote is pretty scary, 
but there aren’t too many princes around 
anymore, except for in Great Britain, and 
they barely pulled off a war with Argentina. 
We’re getting nowhere fast, let us try again.
“. . . Rulers were conceived (except in 
some of the popular governments of 
Greece) as in a necessary antagonistic 
position to the people whom they 
ruled ... Their power was regarded as 
necessary, but also as highly danger­
ous; as a weapon which they would 
use against their subjects, no less than 
external enemies.”
— JOHN STUART MILL
Great quote! Now when did Mill live? 
1806 to 1873? He doesn’t know’ anything 
about the present either. Pretty soon people
may begin to believe that the world is no 
worse off today than it was in the past. 
Here’s a good idea, find a quote from a 
contemporary socio-political philosopher 
and see how seething he or she can be. How 
about Robert Nozick? He knows how bad 
off the world is, he must, he teaches at Har­
vard. Here is a quote from his book:
Anarchy, State, and Utopia:
“To be GOVERNED is to be 
watched, inspected, spied upon, 
directed, law-driven, numbered, regu­
lated, enrolled, indoctrinated, 
preached at, controlled, checked, esti­
mated, valued, censured, commanded, 
by creatures who have neither the 
right nor the wisdom nor the virtue to 
do so. To be GOVERNED is to be at 
every operation, at every transaction 
noted, registered, counted, taxed, 
stamped, measured, numbered, 
assessed, licensed, authorized, admon­
ished, prevented, forbidden, reformed, 
corrected, punished. It is, under pre­
text of public utility, and in the name 
of the general interest, to be placed 
under contribution, drilled, fleeced, 
exploited, monopolized, extorted 
from, squeezed, hoaxed, robbed; then 
at the slightest resistance, the first 
word of complaint, to be repressed, 
fined, nullified, harrassed, hunted 
down, abused, clubbed, disarmed, 
bound, choked, imprisoned, judged, 
condemned, shot, deported, sacrificed,
Ediito rial .ldFeuis atanil.ts ar mAc
By Jeff Suzuki
I know' I could get shot for this, but . . .
Camegie-Mellon was my last (seventh) 
choice of schools.
The others — MIT, Princeton, etc. — 
were way before this school. For 
a very good reason: the first six 
choices of schools, though per­
haps at the same level of CMU 
academically, had speech teams, and we do 
not.
We should get a speech team within a 
year.
Why? Because there are things in speech 
for everything and everyone. Speech is on 
about the same level as football, except it is 
the non-violent, single-person form of said 
sport. Who benefits from speech?
The student — the drama department — 
the English department. I want to go in
reverse order.
There are three classes of speech events: 
original, impromptu, and interpretation. 
Interpretation has little to do with the Eng­
lish department, but original and 
impromptu are very keyed in with English.
The original events at the high school 
level range from Original Prose Poetry, to 
Original Oratory , to Expository, but they all 
must and have to teach good writing skills.
Original Prose Poetry — my favorite. 
Prospective authors, wanting to get their 
works told to the world? This is it. A ten- 
minutes-or-less speech, entirely the student’s 
own work, a speech to entertain. It must be 
clear, it must be entertaining, and it must be 
cohesive.
Original Oratory, and, under that, Origi­
nal Advocacy. The first is a speech to per­
suade: ban on the M.X., smoking, or using
Burma Shave. Ten minutes or less.
The second is more of a speech one would 
give to a senator: “There should be a law 
that...” or “We want you to pass this bill...” 
Future statepersons, stop here.
Both areas require outlining, to make the 
continued on page 3
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. Letters to the editor are opinions of mdtindual authors 
who are usually members of the Vnn>ersity commun­
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone number for 
imfication. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan re.senrs the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
sold, betrayed; and to crown all, 
mocked, ridiculed, derided, outraged, 
dishonored. THAT is GOVERN­
MENT; THAT is its JUSTICE; 
THAT is its MORALITY.”
— P. J. PROUDHON
Hey! Who is this Proudhon guy anyway? 
I thought we were discussing Nozick’s book. 
What? It’s just a footnote. When did he write 
this? 1923?!?! That was before the depres­
sion! That was before the atomic bomb! I 
give up. The world is no worse off than it’s 
ever been (for the Engineers: Entropy(the 
world at any given time) = k). Face it, Chap, 
it’s not the world, it’s you.
I will be in my office this week Wednesday 
from 3:30-5 p.m. and Thursday from 8 to 
9:30 p.m. Emergencies dial 687-6404.
Good day, Good luck, and Get a Job,
NEXT WEEK: Jill, PRONG?
Editor in Chief...............................Monica Cellio
Managing Editor...........................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager........................... Kathy Wasch
News Editor......................................Pauline Wen
Features Editor...........................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor.......................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor......................................Ric Medrow
Photo Editor....................................Steve Winawer
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager......................................Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Art Director...............................Michael Sussman
Contributing Editor..................Vincent Guinto
Assoc. News Editor .... Christopher Johnston
Assistant News Editor......................Doug Blair
Asst Features Editor.....................Stephen Volan
Asst. Sports Editor................Christopher Lewis
Asst Photo Editor.........................Mike Pilewski
AssL Production Mgr.........................Bob Aarhus
Asst. Ad Manager................'..... Andrew Ghali
Business Assistants.........................Tara Diegue/
Kelly Doyle 
Dana Pottenberger 
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Don Eggeit, Nick 
Flagg, Elena Gialamas, Miriam Gulotta, Michele 
Reisinger, Maria Rivas, Scott Safier, Tracey 
Stewart, Mike Ziltzer.
Copyright © 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Srhenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1983—The Tartan—Page 3
- *
Computers help Republican 
candidates get ahead in race
$
By Stuart Shapiro
The Party’s not over yet.
Although the decline and predicted fall of 
the national political party organizations 
has been a political fact of life for some time, 
the “information age” may 
bring along with its other bless­
ings (?) the resurrection of the 
national party organizations as 
a major force in American politics. The 
Republican National Commettee (RNC), 
together with its associated House and 
Senate organizations, has transformed itself 
into the source for campaign funds, infor­
mation, and know-how for Republican can­
didates all across the country. The 
Democratic National Committee has only 
just begun its metamorphosis, but is head­
ing in the same direction.
The Republican Party may be short sigh­
ted about some things, but the application 
of modem technology to political cam­
paigns certainly isn’t one of them. The 
RNC purchased its first computer in 1975 
and hasn’t looked back since. Heard of the 
Atari Democrats? These are the Atari 
Republicans.
This is not high tech policy, however. 
What the RNC represents is high tech polit­
ics. During the 1982 campaign, more than 
50 Republican Congressional candidates 
included among their campaign office fur­
nishings computer terminals capable of tap­
ping into the large amounts of data stored in 
the machines of the national GOP appara­
tus. Republican tacticians travel the coun­
try; their luggage includes portable 
terminals. When the Republican can- 
trolled Indiana legislature had to redistrict
aisle prior to the Insurgency following the 
Second World War, it is above and beyond 
what was the norm during the seventies.
Like success in so many other things, 
political success in the eighties increasingly 
depends upon the efficient collection and 
distribution of relevant information. Those 
who use that information must undoubt­
edly owe something to those who provide it. 
The RNC has it. Republican candidates 
need it. I’m sure a mutually beneficial arran­
gement can be worked out.
Where does this leave the Democrats? 
Working like hell to catch up before their 
lack of informaton handling technology 
catches up with them. That would mean 
vulnerability (as it did in 1980) to Republi­
can opponents enjoying the fruits of super­
ior technology. And it would deprive the 
Democtratic leadership of important lever­
age that could help turn Congressional 
Democrats into something at least faintly 
resembling a coherent, and thus more effec­
tive, whole.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Speech teamForensics helps English and Drama
continued from page 2
speech cohesive. Outlining in the point 
fashion: “We will talk about . . . then 
going through those points in order is often 
a must. They require fantastically great writ­
ing skill, and the work is very difficult. In 
both, one has to build up an impregnable
in the wake of the Î980 census, RNC compu- fortress of arguments to force everyone to 
ters enabled it to gerrymander the state so follow along with what you’re saying, to be 
effectively that a very pro-Republican India­
napolis newspaper denounced the results as 
a blatant abuse erf power.
Demographic analysis, computerized 
mailings, opposition research — you name 
it, they can supply it. And because they can 
supply that kind of information and service, 
not to mention lots of good old fashioned 
cash, the wizards of the national organiza­
tion have become a very welcome addition 
indeed to Republican campaigns at every 
level of government. _
Since there’s no such thing as a political 
free lunch, one must suspect that the Repub­
lican leadership might not object if those 
successful candidates who have partaken of 
its electronic bounty were to feel, and more 
importantly act, properly indebted.
The upshot of all this is the reemergence 
of some degree of party discipline. While it’s 
nothing on a par with the kind of control 
exerted by party leader on either side of the
persuasive without being pushy, or 
incoherent.
Lastly, expository, a speech to explain. It 
can be a "How-to” speech — how to tie your 
shoelaces, weave a rug, write an expository 
speech. It can just take something and tell 
you all about it: a friend from school man­
aged to get to State Championships with a 
speech on Preppies.
The original events all require good writ­
ing skills, and much organization. Coher­
ence counts. Isn’t this what Strategies for 
Writing teaches us? Yes, emphatically, yes.
They also teach, in the persuasive area, 
how to argue your side and hold your 
ground. Research your subject — term pap­
ers. Build up strength for an all out persua­
sive blast. Be logical, rational, but 
persuasive.
The impromptu events: impromptu and 
extemporaneous speech.
Impromptu and extemporaneous speech 
have one goal: to make a speech at a speech 
tournament, given three topics.
In impromptu, they will give you three 
abstracts, or three quotes, or three state­
ments: love, war, bananas, "To be or not to 
be.” You have two minutes to write a five- 
minute speech. Think fast, think clearly, 
think hard. It teaches you how to outline 
and how to work from an oudine.
Extemporaneous is similar: topics are 
taken from the past eight weeks of Time, 
Newsweek, and U.S. News and World 
Report. They are usually political in topic, 
but can use a great deal of other knowledge. 
At the tournament, I had a choice involving 
“anti-weapon weaponry: a good idea?” a 
subject which I had no articles on, but knew 
a good deal about. Another contestant had 
to give a speech on “life in the solar system.”
Working from oudines: an integral part 
of writing if one cannot write without 
wandering, and still wants to write. Think­
ing fast: answering essay questions on any 
quizzes or exams. They are all involved 
(even required) in impromptu and 
extemporaneous.
For drama — there are two major events 
in speech known as Dramatic Interpretation 
and Humorous Interpretation. You can
imagine what they mean: both take cuttings 
from a book, short story, or movie scene and 
give speeches from them.
How does this apply to drama? Well. ..
In one speech, I did a selection from How • 
to Eat Like a Child by Delilah Ephron. No 
props, me the only person up there, and all 
eyes, center stage. One has to imagine props, 
convey sights, etc. through gestures and 
facial movements. Mime? Yes — with talk­
ing. Vocal inflections count They also help 
in O.P.P. — one piece I did required eight 
different and distinct voices. High, low 
pitch; accents, the whole mess. A multi­
talented area, the Interpretation events.
For the student — if you’re in for the gold, 
there it is. If you’re in for the personal satis­
faction of doing something, it’s there, too. 
The feel of trying something new, of giving 
your best shot — all in speech. If you just 
want to kill time, well a speech tourna­
ment’s the #1 time killer — I spent ten hours 
a week practicing, plus all-day tournaments
— 6 a.m. to midnight.
With all these benefits, why doesn’t 
Camegie-Mellon have a speech team? All 
we need is a faculty sponsor! It’s worth a 
shot.
Jeff Suzuki is a freshman majoring in 
Information Systems and is a columnist for 
The Tartan.All must work to prevent drinking problems
— By Wendy Scott
So far my columns have been relatively 
personal and reflective; in other words, 
pretty tame stuff. This week, however, I have 
plunged headlong into controversy. Maybe 
this is overkill, but the incident 
at ZBT on the sixteenth really 
troubled me, so here goes.
First of all, I am not going to 
suggest that the way to prevent more such 
occurrences is to make a lot of rules regulat­
ing the use of alcohol on campus. That 
might help, but I don’t think that availabil­
ity of alcohol is the major problem. The 
drinking age in this state is high, but that 
did not deter the sixteen-year-old boy from 
my home town who literally drank himself 
into a coma last weekend at the Rolling 
Rock Races. People ignore regulations or 
eet around them easily. If the rules are 
strictly enforced, then everyone will just».« r+n Wifi .•*
drink off campus, and that is a poor solution 
at best.
Likewise, I do not think there is any par­
ticular characteristic of the Zebes that can be 
blamed. In other words, it probably could 
have happened at any of the frats, or even at 
a private party. I do not believe that frater­
nity life per se produces such problems. 
Prevention of similar occurrences in the 
future is dependent on each of us, not just on 
the Greeks.
What does upset me is the way the broth­
ers handled the incident: encouraging the 
kid to drink more, not calling security, 
ignoring the unconscious freshman in the 
bathroom. The only explanation I can gen­
erate for such irresponsible behavior is that 
the brothers themselves were drunk.
‘So what?” you ask, “everybody was
drunk.” That’s the problem. Everybody was 
drunk. I have had a few drinking parties 
myself; I know people come to drink. For 
precisely that reason, if I am having a party 
at my apartment where people are drinking, 
I stay sober. Everyone is basically responsi­
ble for his own actions; but when someone 
is at my home, drinking my liquor, then I 
am responsible for him too. People start 
drinking and they get crazy ideas, like break­
ing the drinking record. Someone better be 
sober enough to realize that’s a crazy idea 
and discourage it.
Obviously, the brothers are not the only 
ones at fault. No one dragged the freshmen 
to this party. A while ago I wrote a column 
about motivation. Well, what motivates 
someone to drink 24 shots of whiskey? Sev­
eral things could so motivate a person, the 
major one being a desire to fit in, to be 
accepted. “If I can hold my liquor well, can, 
Wrv V) .ariUonv . ..X tf rrfi‘ 'io fibd :*)Wj
in fact, drink more than anyone else, then 
the Zebes will be impressed and will accept 
me.” Is that what we are communicating to 
freshmen, that we will only accept them if 
they behave in certain ways?
I hope I am wrong, but there seems to be 
no other explanation for people drinking 
suicidal amounts erf alcohol. Are there other 
activities which students are adopting 
merely to belong? Each of us, Greek or not, 
might benefit from a little self-examination. 
Do we attach strings to our acceptance of 
each other, and what are those strings? No 
one should feel they have to drink them­
selves half to death in order to be accepted, 
and the only one I can see to prevent more of 
this from happening is for each of us to be 
more accepting.
Wendy Scott is a senior majoring in Psy­
chology and is a columnist for The Tartan.
it (t'j (tf ifi1KD'lVl V* > > 'IVr¿fT

---------------------------------------------------

PIZ2A;
[Q&ea£^j
ork while putting up with all the dis 
more, you'll have a real education
11166 PWt*urgh. f* 1S230 « Gulf Oil Corporation - 19R3

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1983—The Tartan—Page 5
College tuition increases once again
Public schools increase by 11 %, private schools 12%
(CPS) - - “People pay the tuition because 
they feel it’s worth it,” explains Suzanne 
Horme, an engineering major at the Massa­
chusetts Institute of Technology.
“People pay because they’re slightly 
weird,” says Barry Surman, editor of MIT’s 
student paper.
Weird or not, MIT students will pay $900 
more in tuition than last year’s $8700, a 10.3 
percent hike. When books, fees and other 
costs are added, Horme and the others will 
spend a total of $14,500, making MIT the 
most expensive school in America, accord­
ing to the College Scholarship Service’s 
(CSS) annual survey.
But all colleges are more expensive this 
year, as campus inflation remains frighten­
ingly high despite the taming erf inflation 
elsewhere in the economy.
For example, while the nation's inflation 
rate over the last year has varied from 2.6 
percent to 4.8 percent (depending on which 
federal agency is counting), four-year public 
college costs have soared 12 percent (to an 
average $4721), the CSS says.
Four-year college costs are up 11 percent, 
to an average $8440.
Community and junior college students 
will spend an average $3400 in 1983-84, an 
eight percent increase.
The increases, moreover, follow even 
larger hikes last year. In all, 1982-83 college 
costs were 20 percent higher on public cam­
puses and 13 percent higher on private cam­
puses than 1981-82 costs, the CSS reported 
last year.
At the same time, the Comsumer Price 
Index rose by 7.7 percent. The 1983 inflation 
rate is 3.2 percent so far, according to U.S. 
Department of Labor statistics released last
week.
It’s worse at some schools than at others. 
Students at the University of North Dakota, 
for example, are suffering through a 27 per­
cent increase this year. While GM car prices 
went up two percent, tuition at the General 
Motors Institute in Detroit went up 32 per­
cent. The hike hit 53 percent at Mankato 
State University in Minnesota.
Because of deep budget cuts, California 
community college will have to pay tuition 
(called “fees” on the West Coast) for the first 
time ever.
Worse yet, many tuition and fees will con­
tinue to rise faster than the inflation rate.
“Analysts see average college costs outpac- „ 
ing inflation rates through 1984,” says 
Cathy Henderson, author of the American 
Council on Education’s “College Costs: 
Recent Trends, Likely Future.”
She says colleges are just now getting 
around to tuition hikes needed from 1977- 
82, when inflation pushed costs of running 
campuses up almost 44 percent while tui­
tion increased by “only” 51 percent.
Henderson theorizes that many schools 
kept hikes low by stalling maintenance and 
freezing faculty salaries.
They can’t stall any longer, she says. 
“Now many colleges are playing catch-up 
ball, adjusting salaries and renovating 
buildings, forcing a boost in the cost of 
j higher education.”
Yet budget cuts and unemployment mean 
schools can’t turn to the other two tradi­
tional sources of fundraising: governments 
and alumni.
"We’re still trying to catch up,” confirms 
Jack Currie, MIT’s finance director.
Alumni “gifts and endowment revenues 
(the money earned on the school’s invest­
ments) have not kept up” enough to help 
MFr pay for its operating expenses, which 
rose eight percent last year, he says.
To avoid selling some of those invest­
ments, MIT turned to its third traditional 
source of money: students.
MIT students, at least, seem to have 
accepted the hike, which follows a 17.4 per­
cent increase last year.
Each spring, the students - - notorious for 
pranks like placing a cow on a building 
rooftop and making a huge balloon saying 
“MIT” inflate miraculously from the turf 
during last year’s Harvard-Yale game - - 
organize an “annual spontaneous tuition 
riot.”
Fewer than 100 students showed up at last 
spring’s “riot,” however.
“People complain about the tuition,” 
Surman says. "For some, it’sa real hardship, 
but they wouldn’t transfer for anything. The 
starting salaries for MIT graduates justify 
the costs.”
“When I went here during the fifties, a 
year’s expenses cost the same as a top-line 
Chevrolet,” Currie adds. “The same is true 
today.”
Still another reason for the calm may be 
that so little of the increase comes out stu­
dents’ pockets immediately.
Almost 75 percent of the student body 
receives some form of financial aid, MIT aid
director Leonard Gallagher says.
Others aren’t as lucky. Califonia State 
University official Dr. Isabel Hemandez- 
Sema predicts minority students will be 
forced off CSU campuses by this fall’s huge 
57 percent fee hike.
And a National Center for Education Sta­
tistics enrollment survey released last month 
partially attributed falling percentages of 
students enrolled full-time at four-year col­
leges to higher tuition payments.
Nonetheless, some schools have managed 
to avoid hikes.
Millersville State College in Pennsylva­
nia, Delaware State College and Living­
stone College in North Carolina are among 
a handful erf schools that held the line this 
year.
But apparently only one school in Amer­
ica managed to cut student costs: 650- 
student Pacific Christian College in 
Fullerton, CA, lowered prices from $2756 to 
$2750.
Part-time teacher and publications direc­
tor Marj Weichal attributes the small 
decrease to “a lot of hard work,” professors
“willing to teach at a lesser salary,” volun­
teers, and a long list of people who “donate 
what they can.”
“We do not have any large donors,” she 
say. “We’d love to have one, but we don’L” 
Larger, more complex George Washing­
ton Unviersity raised tuition 23 percent to 
$6300 in the wake of a consultant’s sugges­
tion the GW’s low rates hurt its reputation 
as a “world class” school. But spokesman 
David Taylor says a five percent enrollment 
decrease and an operating deficit dictated 
the price hike, not a concern for image.
ZBT hearing
continued from page 1
last Thursday at 8:00 a.m.; however, it was 
postponed until this morning.
Commented Bob Fadzen erf Security, 
“We’ve had people intoxicated before but 
nothing this severe.”
“We just felt it was kind of irresponsible 
on their part,” said the second RA. “We 
continued on page 6
liJOHN'S.PIZZA
4523 Centre at Craig 
621-6755
Hours: Mon. — Thurs. 5:00 p.m. — 1:00 a.m.
Fri. & Sat. 5:00 p.m. — 2:00 a.m.Sunday 5:00 p.m. — 12 midnight
FREE Delivery
Round Thin CrustRound Thick CrustAll Hoagies Toasted HotmALZONEE
EXTRASLarge12 Cut*Med.8 Cut*Smell4 CutsMed. Pen 8 CutsSmell Pen4 CutsHOAGIESWHOLI1/2EXTRASMed.Small
PLAIN4.713.632.214.532.91HOT SAUSAGE3.961.98REG.4.713.63
1 Topping5.914.532.915.433.61ITALIAN3.961.9815.914.53
2 Topping*7.115.433.616.334.31VEGETARIAN3.961.9827.115.43
3 Topp in**8.316.334.317.235.01PIZZA SUB3 581.7»38.316.33
4 Tapping*9.517.235.018.135.71STEAK3.961.9849.517.23
Everything10.718.135.719.036.41MEAT BALL3.961.98PLUS TAX
EXTRAS Pepperoni, Sausage, Mushrooms. Onions, CreenHot Peepers. Anchovies. X-Chaese
DI I IV I KY kl S I KM III) 
IN ( I R I AIN ARI As 
IMMK.il MADI I Kl SII 
HAU V ON I III 
I’KI MISI S
NO PR I BAM SHI I I ,
11 s I I) Wl ( I SIOM 
M AM I V » K\ PI// ' V 
li( rA< .11 Io \ < M K 
I IKINI.
NO MINIMUM 
ORDER 
REQUIRED
FOR FREE DELIVERY
t \ I / O \ L S 
K I t . I i \ K 4 r X Ir.is) ( OM! S WITH il VM > \t AMI,II, I R< >\ I (. HL F SE
\ S \ I ( L 
OR
YOt ( \N ( RI AT L 
> < K R (»UN
* All Deliveries Start At Time Of Opening
* Most Deliveries Within 45 Minutes of Order Under Normal Service Conditions
* 10 % Discount With College Student I.D. Card On All Pickup Orders Only
* Absolutely No Personal Checks On Deliveries Or Pickup Orders
* Open for Lunch Monday Thru Friday At 11:00 A.M.
Dmfvmy Coupon
\ $1.00 OFF c
Any order over $5.00 
Must acknowledge when placing order to be valid 
One coupon per order 
Good on deliveries only.
Scar» Coupon
$1.60 OFF c
Any order over $5.00 
Must acknowledge when placing order to be valid. 
One coupon per order.
Good in store only.
Expires October 2Expires October 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—September 27, 1983
It is always how to write truly and, having 
found what is true, to project it in such a 
luay that it becomes a part of the experience 
of the person who reads it 
A writer's problem does not change. He 
himself changes and the world he lives in 
changes but his problem remains the same.
Ernest Hemingway: The Problems of a Writer m War 
Time
Short leads CMU again
Tartan trackers race;/UP invites Red & White
RA comments on incident
Teaching Center tapes faculty
By BILL FOSTER
Tartan Staffurrtier
CMU’s Teaching Center is continuing 
attempts to improve the quality of teaching 
at CMU, according to Dr. Edwin Fenton 
who heads the Center. Much of the empha­
sis is placed on video taping professors.
“We are video taping faculty in four 
departments: Design, Social Sciences, 
Mechanical Engineering, and Mathematics. 
We’re taping everyone in the department.”
Dr. Fenton said the video tapes are viewed 
with the professors. The video taping helps 
reveal problems such as failing to structure 
lectures, to involve students or to use lecture 
time effectively. “Nobody wants to teach 
badly... professors are anxious to leam from 
what they see,” he said.
The Center is trying to create a general 
awareness of teaching issues on campus and 
will publish newsletters for TA’s and •
faculty. It will also do a limited amount of 
trouble shooting with student complaints.
The Center is also sponsering seminars 
on teaching. Topics have included “Work­
ing with TA’s,” and "Teaching Studio 
Courses.” A series erf six university wide lec­
tures will be given this semester — the first 
was given yesterday by Nobel Laureate Her­
bert Simon.
The Teaching Center was created last 
January, and is presendy funded solely by 
the University. Dr. Fenton was chosen to 
head the Center and will continue to work 
with it full time this semester. Fenton has 
written a number of books and articles 
about teaching.
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffwriter
245 colorfully uniformed performers 
stood ready at the Indiana University of Pen­
nsylvania Invitational starting line. Repres­
enting schools from across the Midwest, 
these young athletes waited for the starting 
blast to start the show. Among these 245 
athletes stood 14 clad proudly in the red and 
white colors of Camegie-Mellon. Waiting 
tensely, they considered the task before them
— to run to the best of their ability to show 
their exceptional endurance, and to aug­
ment their reputation as one of the finest 
Division III teams in the nation.
The gun sounded. The red and white 
uniforms immediately bolted to the front of 
the pack. Revelling in the ideal 60° tempera­
ture and low humidity, the Tartan runners 
continued to hold near the top. Weaving in 
and out through the backwoods paths, Mike 
Short led the CMU harriers toward the horse 
track that marked the last half mile of the 
journey. As the race concluded, it became 
obvious that the Tartans had added another
outstanding performance to their growing 
list of achievements.
The final tally showed CMU with 153 
points, putting them in fifth place behind 
overall champion Farleigh Dickinson. In 
the all-important Division III Standings, 
however, the Tartans were the victors, 
defeating their nearest competitor, Frost- 
burg State, by 50 points. Individually, the 
Tartans were led by Short in 15th place with 
a 5 mile time of 25:17, followed by John 
Wessels (26th place), Thom Bell (31st), 
Kevin Brewer (35th) and Bob Dusch (51st).
Coach Gary Meckely was enthusiastic 
about his team’s performance. “This team is 
certainly the finest one ever assembled at 
Camegie-Mellon and could be one erf the 
best teams in the 15 year history erf Divison 
III Cross Country.”
The harrier’s next meet will be this Satur­
day at 11:00 when they run against John 
Carrol, Case Western Reserve, Hiram and 
Geneva. The PAC meet will begin at 11:0C 
a.m. in Schenley Park at Flagstaff.
Shadyside admits three
Home Sports Entertainment filmed last Saturday’s defeat of Hiram
continued from ptgt 5
know it’s hard to control how much is 
drunk at parties [but it was] their responsi­
bility to stop him. There is a certain amount 
erf pressure put on someone who has the 
center erf attention. . .All fraternities have a 
responsibility toward people who come to 
their parties. We don’t mean to go all out on 
ZBT [but] it could have been serious.. .it was
so close. They were really lucky he didn’t 
die. I feel they deserve to be punished for it... 
Fraternities are already given a lot erf lee­
way. . .they should watch out”
Commented the first RA, “We’re not just 
out to get ZBT. We just want to get them to 
have some responsibility. They are giving 
other frats a bad name.”

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1983—The Tartan—Page 7
Two CMU based bands
THE SHUNTS
ITC to sponsor 
computer series
James Morris, Director of the Center, will 
begin the series September 28th with a look 
at the structure of the entire system. This 
will cover new hardware for both the user 
work stations and the interconnections 
between them. It will also outline the struc­
ture of the software being developed.
The future computer systems for 
Camegie-Mellon University will be pres­
ented in a series of informal seminars this 
fall, it was announced today by the Informa­
tion Technology Center, the group respon­
sible for development of the system.
Seminars will be held Wednesdays at 3:30 
pm in Masters Auditorium of GSIA.
The concept of a computer for every stu­
dent has generated a lively debate since the 
contract between Camegie-Mellon Univer­
sity and IBM was announced last fall. As 
was emphasized by Vice Provost Van Hou- 
weling at a recent campus meeting, the Uni­
versity has not yet made the decision to 
require a computer for every student. The 
system discussed in this seminar series, how­
ever, will make such a decision possible.
Da Eounrs, Atrual E.zi dlay ar AaFkir EquaFi
By CAROLYN SPERANZA With permission from Pittsburgh Parks and
special for the Tartan Recreation they performed downtown last
If these faces seem familiar, you may have Saturday afternoon with three other groups: 
seen them playing at a local bar or frat or Dream Factory, Inc., Rip It Up, and 
perhaps during your travels across campus. Straight, No Soda.
On maldus RitFu.r.ng Otr. 19
headquarters provide our 
engineering teams with the 
facilities for developing micro­
electronic circuitry for use in the 
next generation of Sperry 
Computers.
We’d like to give you more 
information about the employment 
opportunities. Please contact 
Sperry Corporation, Computer 
Systems, Semiconductor 
Operations Employment, H2E25, 
P.O. Box 43525, St. Paul, MN 
55164-0525. Sperry is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer. U.S. 
Citizenship Required.
=^= EPERRY
c Sperry Corporation 1983
10% Discount to 
Students with Ad
shaping the 
future in 
semiconductor 
development
At Semiconductor Operations, 
the challenge as we see it, is to 
succeed where no one else has 
gone before. That’s why the 
semiconductor professionals at 
Sperry are intent upon developing 
advanced highly reliable special 
purpose MOS, bipolar and hybrid 
devices. We have now moved into 
a new home and the labs and 
equipment housed in our 250,000 
sq. ft. Semiconductor Operations
• Dancewear
• Exercisewear
• Footwear
Also, we design 
and build 
costumes
jU Ç. &(Pk
THEATRICAL and 
DANCE SUPPLIES
204 FIFTH AVENUE 
at Market St.
Downtown Pittsburgh
Phone: 412-391-1422
   --------------------S______________________ A *

---------------------------------------------------

PeirFy Essays F.tr.en DFala
contact Beth x4608 Jill 687-5499 Gregg x4503
WE VE GROWN INTO SOMETHING GRAND
DFed eff yeuF weFk eF sinn 
u.a maldus Aa.l re
Dess.iF Ek.be Feel 50 Dianl.ni: EidrilbiF 27
AFr.srs Dis.gniFs PoeregFadoiFs
InriFisrin .n weFk.ng?

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Lecture series
Belew discusses improvisations. Beatles
pnoio by Wayne nortmanGuitarist Adrian Belew (with band) performed at Ballroom last Sunday following 3 p.m. Adamson Wing lecture.
By JEFF HENDRIX
Tartan StaffurrUer
Adrian Belew and his band, Gaga, 
recently performed at CMU. Not only was it 
possible to see Belew in concert, but there 
was also the opportunity to talk with the 
man personally at a free lecture which was 
held in the Adamson Wing of Baker Hall on 
Sunday, September 18.
Although the idea of attending a lecture 
on a Sunday afternoon may not sound 
appealing to everyone, there was a substan­
tial turnout. In fact, Belew quickly dispelled 
any nodon that this was going to be a lecture 
at all. Upon entering, Belew brought about 
a relaxed atmosphere as he sat on the floor 
and proceeded to exhibit one of his custom- 
make guitars.
This particular guitar was enhanced with 
a design created by Mike Getz and also con­
tained “the finest state-of-the-art equip­
ment.” Belew pointed out that a synthesizer 
was built into this particular guitar, this 
feature being rather essential considering 
the abstract approach he has to music.
Accompanying Belew to the lecture was 
his drummer, Larrie London. Before any 
open discussion got under way, Belew cre­
dited London with having been “the origi­
nal Motown drummer.” Belew stated that 
London had performed with the Supremes, 
Marvin Gaye and numerous other big 
names in Motown before moving on to the 
recording studios of Nashville. “I looked for 
a drummer a long time and finally found 
the right guy,” said Belew.
Belew then fielded a wide range of ques­
tions from the audience. Naturally, one 
topic that he covered was his personal style 
of music. A self-taught musician, Belew 
does a lot of improvisation. “There are no 
set pieces to play, and with all of my equip­
ment, there is no telling what I’ll play,” 
joked Belew. Right now, Belew is “focused” 
on his own music. “I’m very sensitive to 
other styles and tend to pick up influences 
easily,” Belew stated with regard as to why 
he does not keep with other rock bands.
While currently touring with his own 
band and focusing on his own music, this 
has not always been the case. Belew has 
performed with the well-known names of 
Frank Zappa, David Bowie, the Talking 
Heads, and King Crimson. In fact, Belew 
recently collaborated with King Crimson on 
an album yet to be released. He hinted that 
the album may be finished sometime in 
November. Another band that Belew has 
worked with is Riuichi Sacamoto’s Yellow 
Magic Orchestra. While this band may not 
be well-known in die United States, Belew 
said that they are “bigger than the Beatles in 
Japan.” It was while working with Belew 
that die Yellow Magic Orchestra first 
recorded live in the studio. “They had been 
together for five years and never recorded
live in a studio; they had always recorded 
separately,” Belew said. While recording the 
album, “Left Handed Dream,” with the Yel­
low Magic Orchestra, Belew and his wife 
Margaret lived in Tokyo. While expressing 
that he enjoyed working with Yellow Magic 
Orchestra and the previously mentioned 
bands, Belew voiced that for right now he is 
"very selective” about future collaborations.
When questioned as to other modes of 
artistic expression that he would like to try, 
Belew stated a preference for film. He added 
that he would rather do a film than a video. 
Although not ruling out the possibility of 
doing more videos, Belew stated, “I just like 
the look of film — it’s more real, more last­
ing.” The type of film? Belew mentioned a 
desire to make a short “underground tvpe
film.” He elaborated, “I’d like to do a docu­
mentary of a tour showing how things come 
together.” As far as expression in other 
media forms, Belew joked, “Maybe I’ll write 
a book when I’m too old to play.”
Considering Belew’s abstract and unor­
thodox style of music, the ultimate question 
finally arose as someone asked if he was 
“afraid of playing to a bunch of engineers. ” 
Belew laughed and replied that he liked col­
lege audiences. In fact, Belew’ added that 
when it came time to move, he moved to the 
campus area of the University of Illinois. 
“It’s nice to be able to ride a bike around and 
check out underground movies,” said 
Belew. In general, Belew likes the university 
atmosphere, and judging from the response 
of the audience, the apprec iation is mutual.
Kopelev proud of USSR
By NEAL JOHNSTON
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Tuesday in the Ballroom, Russian- 
boni Lev Kopelev, an imposing figure with 
fire in his speech, opened the President’s 
Distinguished Lecture Series to an almost 
full house. The talk was entitled “State and 
Spirit,” and for more than 30 minutes, 
Kopelev spoke passionately on freedom and 
unity of spirit in the world.
His opening remarks began where he and 
his wife, upon arriving in New York, saw a 
demonstration of Russian immigrants cal­
ling for freedom in their old country. He 
went on to say that he also watched a Mos­
cow singer/actor on television twice; incor­
porated in his songs were not only the 
sufferings, sorrows, and despairs of the Rus­
sian people but also their joys, dreams, and 
hopes. These two events made him doubly 
proud of his spirited ex-compatriots.
Those thoughts led him into the concept 
of nations and how they exist. Before he 
continued, Kopelev clarified what he meant 
by “nation.” a historical community deter­
mined by spiritual beliefs and a language not 
necessarily innate, as opposed to one that is 
biological or materialistic.
He compared these ideas to the history of 
Russian culture, which wras one of many 
peoples who had not only a common lan­
guage but similar cultures. These were a 
people who wanted only to live in a peaceful 
co-existence but were often misunderstood
by both outsiders and participants. “The 
misunderstanding,” stated Kopelev, “is that 
true social relations are hidden by a dense 
smoke-curtain of lies,” and that many are 
seduced by those lies.
As he paused for a drink of water, a 
somber look came over his face. Only in 
recent years, he continued, has it become 
known just how' many hundreds of artists, 
scientists and intellectuals, have been 
imprisoned from past revolutions, and out of 
these, how7 many were killed or had died 
from the harshness of their incarceration. 
But despite all the cruelties and various lead­
ers the country has had, Russian culture 
exists and works.
His facts that most writers and artists are 
either exiled or in prisons (since they aren’t 
allowed to publish or earn a living in Rus­
sia) were very disturbing. But independent 
of governmental rulings, they still create 
their arts and use their talents because, as 
Kopelev said, the people have an unquen­
chable spirit that no amount of force can 
still.
In summing up, Kopelev said that people 
the world over all uniquely alike in that 
they all identify with state and spirit. The 
true representatives of spirit don’t ask for 
charity but call for a stance on self-defense of 
rights; we can only help them by helping 
ourselves. He ended his speech with a plea 
that rang of sincerity: we should advocate 
freedom — it’s the best current for building 
spirit in the world today.The Warner Theatre downtown being razed.
photo by Carolyn Speranza

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—September 27, 1983
Putting "best you" forward in your resumes
By SCOTT SAFIER
Tartan Staffwritrr
Welcome back seniors — get a job! Are 
you a grad or undergrad worried about 
summer or permanent job prospects? Well 
stop worrying and start doing something, 
and a good place to start is with your 
resume.
Your resume can be your most important 
tool in finding a job. Often, a prospective 
employer will get his first, and possibly 
only, impression of you from your resume; 
an interviewer will see your resume before 
he ever sees you. Therefore, you want your 
resume to put “the best you” forward, pres­
enting a clear picture of yourself — your 
goals, strengths, weaknesses, and aptitudes. 
An employer is not interested in your 
height, weight, eye color. . .they are judg­
ing your abilities, not your beauty.
They style of your resume can also say 
something about you. First, a clear state­
ment of your goal should be one of the first 
things on your resume. This concisely- 
worded statement will tell an employer if his 
job would interest you. Employers don’t just 
want the best person, they want the best 
person who would be happy in the job- 
they want a “good match” between the 
person and the job.
Also, your style should not be full of gim­
micks or jargon. In a September, 1982, arti­
cle in Graduate Engineer, Dr. C. Randolph 
Powell, Placement Director at Indiana Uni­
versity, said “I have seen resumes made up in 
all sizes and shapes — hearts, squares, trape- 
zoids, diamonds, and rolled up in scrolls. 
I’ve seen them printed on paper of various 
colors and stapled into thick brochures. It is 
all counter productive. Gimmickry never
works.” Like gimmickry, jargon can also be 
counter productive. Jargen can confuse an 
employer, and clutter and otherwise clear 
resume.
Your resume should also be designed to 
reflect the best you. Dennis Ryan, Placement 
Director at CMU says in Graduate Engi­
neer, “[Your resume] should resemble a tri­
angle, the apex being the type of position 
sought and the other information in the 
document designed and presented to sup­
port this goal.” This “other information” is 
very important. It should concentrate in 
your training skills, activities and interests 
that relate to your stated career goal. 
Obviously this includes pertinent course 
work, but it also includes other less obvious 
facets of your life. Are you thinking about a 
job in communications and also happen to 
be a ham radio operator? Have you had
experience repairing machinery? Include 
anything that you have done that relates to 
your goal.
Lasdy, my last piece of advice is not to 
follow any advise too religiously. John 
Sofie, Director of Placements at the Univer­
sity of Alabama, comments, “Many students 
buy a book on resume writing and stick to it 
like glue. Instead of producing their 
resumes in their styles reflecting their cir­
cumstances, too often they wind up with 
something formulized, depersonalized, and 
sterile, a virtual replication of the example 
in the book.”
The CMU Placement Office is located in 
the basement of Warner Hall. They are 
sponsoring an orientation of the services 
they offer today and tomorrow at 11:30 and 
4:00 in the Ballroom.
Wasserman's "Killing Our Own"
Book grimiy chronicles nuclear cover-ups
Harvey Wasserman is one of the leading 
authorities in the field of Nuclear Energy 
and the detrimental effects that radiation 
have on Modem Civilization. As a journalist 
he has been published in The New York 
Times, The Los Angeles Times, The Bos­
ton Globe, Mother Jones and Rolling 
Stone. He is the author of Energy War and 
Harvey Wasserman’s History of the United 
States.
His latest book, Killing Our Own: The 
Disaster of America’s experience with 
Atomic Radiation, is the first full spectrum 
investigation of the tangible impact nuclear 
radiation has had on the health of the Amer­
ican people. Based on documented evidence 
and first-hand interviews, Killing Our Own
represents a harrowing chronicle of human 
suffering, official subterfuge, and industry 
cover-up. Wasserman has dug hard to come 
up with myriad case histories of men, 
women, children, and animals who died of 
multiple myeloma, leukemia, lung cancer, 
and a list of brutal debilitating and disfigur­
ing disorders attributed to the effects of radi ­
ation. Such a sage leaves the reader 
exhausted, for it is a firm documentation of 
past disasters. Wasserman proposes no 
major program — other than wanting jus­
tice to be done and urging an end to nuclear 
power.
Harvey Wasserman is also media co­
coordinator of the Clamshell Alliance and 
media co-coordinator of MUSE, the Musi­
cians United for Safe Energy Concerts for a 
Non-Nuclear Future. He coordinated and 
was consultant for various concerts staged 
by anti-nuclear groups. He is Editor-In- 
Chief of the MUSE Record Book, a 16-page 
glossy booklet distributed in the “No 
Nukes” record album, as well as Editor-In- 
Chief of the MUSE Program Book, a 52- 
page glossy booklet distributed during and 
after concerts.
Harvey Wasserman has contributed to the 
authorship of many film documentaries 
which depict the deadly technology of 
atomic radiation. He is the co-author of 
“Lovejoy’s Nuclear War” and co-author of 
“The Last Resort”; both of which have won 
several film-festival awards. He has acted as 
Editorial Consultant on Green Mountain
Post’s productions such as "Ecocide: A Stra­
tegy of War” in 1981; "Save The Planet”, in 
1979, and “Early Warnings” in 1979.
Active in the civil rights, anti-war, anti- 
nuclear and pro-ecology movements since
1973, Mr. Wasserman has lectured and 
spoken at roughly 200 campuses, public ral­
lies, radio and television talk shows, news­
paper interviews and community 
gatherings throughout the world.
Harvey Wasserman will present a fast- 
moving, comprehensive, multi-media pro­
gram that will rouse the ire of those 
concerned with their own or their children’s 
health. He will bring with him, as a special 
feature, a 7'/2 minute film entitled "Two Vic­
tims From Three Mile Island”.
ARMY ROIC BEALLYOUCANBE.
There s a lot more to an Army ROTC 
scholarship than tuition, books laB fees, sup­
plies and up to $1,000 per school year for 
living expenses
There s leadership You start sharpening 
your ability to lead while you re «ill in 
engineenng school. So when you graduate as 
a second lieutenant, vou re ready to take 
charge
You re trim, fit You know how to 
motivate people And you ne capable of man-
aging the thousands of dollars worth of 
equipment you re in charge of.
And as you progress, you 11 discover 
increasing opportunities to advance your 
engineenng skills, to attend graduate school, 
while you sen e your country
All the while, you’ll be acquinng the man­
agement skills that industry leaders look for 
So kiok into an Army ROTC scholar­
ship Talk it over with the Professor of Military 
Science on your campus
FOR INFORMATION CALL 578-2205 
Captain Michael Schulte 
or VISIT OUR OFFICE - B7. MMC
HARVEY WASSERMAN

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Reggae king Peter Tosh 
discusses life and music
By NORBERT SCHINDLER
Special for the Tartan
On July 12, WRCT’s “Nuvo Norbert” 
spoke with well-known reggae musician 
Peter Tosh in his room at the William Penn 
Hotel, downtown, just before his concert 
that night in the Stanley Theater. The fol­
lowing is a collection of excerpts.
WRCT: Does your audience have an 
understanding of the Rast [Rastafarian] way 
k of life?
Tosh: No, they know nothing about it. 
But the music speaks in language — the 
; music is what they understand . . . and 
makes them dance.
WRCT: How long ago was it that you were 
with the Waiters?
Tosh: Oh, long ago — 1973.
WRCT: Did you enjoy your time with 
i them?
5 Tosh: Yes, I had to. But at the same time it 
was non-progressive. [The Rastafarian way 
life]... teaches me me to stand on my own 
i two feet.
WRCT: Did you arrange much of Bob Mar- 
ley’s work?
I Tosh: Yes, most of it.
| WRCT: Are you changing at all musically?
I Tosh: No, just painting my own pictures — 
I standing on my own two feet, 
j WRCT: How do you feel about the media’s 
I reaction to Marley’s death?
I Tosh: We don’t check that — it’s not my 
1 concern ... We are concerned about media’s 
fraction to life.
j WRCT: Why do you think reggae is becom­
ing so popular these days?
I Tosh: ‘Cause it’s the greatest music ever 
1 been played.
| WRCT: I imagine that you’re just as 
I involved in the Rastafarian life as you’ve 
I always been.
Tosh: Yes, I can’t change . . . Never change 
I — ten years from today I’m the same. Every 
time you see the sea, it is the same sea, and 
I every time you feel the breeze, it is the same 
^rbreeze. The sun is the same, moon and stars 
I the same. Trees the same.
WRCT: But how does this relate to being 
progressive?
| Tosh: Well, progressive means to me pro­
gressiveness, and what you achieve through 
your work — how you are being paid while 
you work and if you are not being paid the 
way you should be, why you work ... Even 
though I have grown musically, morally, 
physically, spiritually, you see, financially 
and materially, it is down there.
WRCT: Do you still live in Jamaica?
Tosh: Every dme.
WRCT: Do you feel Ethiopia is the 
homeland?
Tosh: Yes, I know. There’s no place like 
home.
WRCT: I imagine you’ve been there.
Tosh: Once.
WRCT: How did it make you feel?
Tosh: Very great. Bom again. Brand new. 
WRCT: Why did you not stay in Ethiopia 
rather than in Jamaica?
Tosh: I will be there in due season ... I must 
be in Africa very soon.
WRCT: How do you feel about reggae 
music that is made outside of Jamaica — do 
they have the same feeling?
Tosh: No.
WRCT: Why is there such a recent effort, as 
for example in Britain, to play reggae?
Tosh: Because it is the most beautiful music 
in the world ... Those who adopt the princi­
ples of the music are those who are influ­
enced by the beauties of the music, but are 
continued on page 12
The Allegheny Repertory Theatre is presenting Moliere’s 
September 30.
‘Misanthrope” beginning
Bond's Octopussy just doesn't grab you
By CATHERINE STROUD VODREY
Tartan Staffwriter
Octopussy is the newest in a long series of 
James Bond efforts, and to put it bluntly, 
Ian Fleming would not be pleased at all. 
The series had started so well, with the 
dashing (there is no other word 
that is suitable) Sean Connery 
playing the ever-unruffled 
Bond. The leading ladies were 
all unbelievably beautiful and though 
obvious ornamentation to the earlier films, 
they seemed to fit.
Now we are offered Roger Moore and 
Maud Adams as James and his latest con-
PlaywF.gors aFi w.nniFs 
w.ro DFala's "EragiweFks
¡LBy MARK LEVINE
I Special for the Tartan
For the most part, Drama has been a 
I closed department. But recently they’ve tried 
I to change that image, with classes open to 
I other majors, and the creation of the 
I Theater Minor”.
The newest part of the Drama department 
I opens things even further. Stageworks is 
I corning!
What is Stageworks? It’s a theater com- 
J pany within the Drama department, for the 
J purpose of putting new plays. Yes, the 
Ijyfrrama department does have a playwriting 
I option, Graduate and Undergraduate. And 
I these playwrights will be putting their plays 
I on at Stageworks — all year round — 
I instead of waiting for the annual New Play 
I Festival to come around in the spring.
There will still be a New Play Festival, 
I but it will consist of a “Best of Stageworks”, 
either rep>eated exactly as it was before, or 
^worked to remove the flaws that were seen 
from the previous production. And instead 
of being cramped into the Studio Theater 
^ where few people besides Drama majors can 
attend, the Play Festival may well be pro­
duced at the Pittsbugh Playhouse, to insure 
a wider audience.
The advantages of Stageworks are end­
less. Becasuse of the heavy course-load of 
Drama’s actors, the playwrights are looking 
elsewhere to fill any gaps they might have in 
casting. They can and will use people from 
all the departments in the University. 
They’ll use local actors. Alumni. Students 
from other colleges. Anyone. Keep reading, 
the Tartan for further notices, or drop a line 
in the Stageworks mailbox in the Drama 
Office, C.F.A., if you want to get involved.
There are also many advantages for the 
playwrights. They can work on produc­
tions throughout the year, or put on experi­
mental pieces that they couldn’t have done 
in the festival. It’s as open for them as it is for 
the rest of the school.
The first production is already going into 
rehearsal. It’s a double bill of Petya and the 
Hamsters, by Michael McGovern, and a 
,one-act musical by Gary Glauber.
Glauber and McGovern are overseeing 
production for Stageworks, but it’s being 
run by all the playwrights. Performances 
will be held in the second basement of the 
Margaret Morrison Building. And they’ll be 
free. So why pay for the hits of tomorrow 
when you can see them today, on campus? 
See you there .
quest; although both undeniably attractive 
people and not exactly bad actors, they are 
saddled with a completely predictable plot. 
This would not even be such a curse, were 
the script not equally predictable. Perhaps 
they should have stopped two or three films 
ago, for the Bond formula definitely isn’t 
working as well as it used to.
Octopussy, in case you haven’t already 
guessed, is played by Maud Adams. The 
only actress to appear as the leading lady in 
two Bond films, she has gained confidence 
in her acting and p>ortrays the idly efficient 
Octopussy with ease. Moore also seems com­
fortable in the movie, but the edges have 
worn thin; it almost seems old hat to him 
now. It makes you wonder where the thin 
line is between being comfortable with the 
movie and being bored with it.
The plot, quickly, concerns a couple of 
nasties whom Bond has been sent to appre­
hend. In chasing them, he inexplicably 
finds himself on Octopussy’s island, which 
is populated with exotic flowers and Amazo­
nian women who spend most of their free 
time lolling by the pool in barely-there 
swimsuits. Bond and Octopussy meet des­
pite the efforts of Louis Jouidan (one of the 
nasties) to keep them apart. Their passion­
ate lovemaking in her ostentatiously lush 
boudoir turns into a free-for-all when a few 
of Jourdan’s henchmen drop in with swi­
rling knives and theatrical balcony-leaping.
Octopussy (of course) at this point realizes 
that she really cares for Bond and tries to 
protect him. Besides being a little too much 
to take, in that they have known each other 
all of three hours, Adam seems to lose her 
cool here and resorts- to lots of open- 
mouthed, batting-eyes looks.
With the requisite chase scenes and crowd 
scenes, Bond and Octopussy are separated. 
Pity, for now she allies herself with Jourdan 
again. She goes on the road with her travel­
ing Amazonian circus and the climax of the 
movie (f you can call it a climax) comes in 
the last five minutes when Bond is called 
upon to defuse a bomb that apparently 
would have blown up England, if not the 
world.
The credits roll, the music swells, but 
instead of the pleasantly hedonistic feeling 
that usually comes after viewing a Bond 
film, you are left wondering what hap­
pened. Too many loose ends and an incredi­
bly foolish plot serve only to make 
Octopussy a farce, rather than the exhilarat­
ing film its predecessors were.
Company Cabaret selects 
talent for 1983 season
William Copper, General Manager foi 
the Company Cabaret, announces selection 
for the Company for 1983.
Musical Director of the group is Pitts­
burgh composer Steven Block, a board 
member of the Pittsburgh Composers' 
Alliance and music critic for Market Square. 
The script and song writing group, organ­
ized by Lamont Arnold, a well-known 
young Pittsburgh actor, includes Mike Lip- 
nicky of Atlasburg, PA, James Farinet of 
Dorseyville, Lois Garcia of Steubenville, 
OH, Joseph Grabowski, John Cantine, Wil­
liam Loeffler, Chlick McGowan, and Jean
Sanek, all of Pittsburgh.
A company of dancers, singers, and 
actors, including recent CMU and Point 
Park graduates, and established local artists, 
has also been formed.
The Company Cabaret will present origi­
nal material, and use new material every 
week, in a classical cabaret format. Perfor­
mances will begin in October, Saturday 
nights, in a room set aside for the show' at 
Froggy ’s Restaurant downtown.
For ticket information call Mr. Copper, at 
322-6194. '?/•’

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—September 27, 1983
Jamaican Peter Tosh talks about "Rast" life
continued from page 11
not influenced by the Rastaman’s way of life 
because that is very difficult. You can paint 
the picture of music easily, but to live the life 
of a Rastaman is not easy. It’s like jumping 
off a building.
WRCT: So you find your life very difficult 
then?
Tosh: Difficult, yes, but because I know 
where I’m going, I have no problem. I know 
who I praise.
WRCT: Is there a harsh reaction against 
Rastafarianism at this time
Tosh: Every time, everywhere.
WRCT: Why is that5
Tosh: Because that’s the way it w..j in the 
days of the Romans. Every day, every year, 
Christians been executed. Two thousand 
years ago go to prison, Christ has been cruci­
fied — voting has changed. Same thing. The 
only thing changed is that the devils today 
are called Christians, and the Christians are 
called devils ... If black is the foundation oi 
righteousness, it is the foundation of evil, 
too.
WRCT: Do you feel you’re a spokesman for 
Rastafarianism?
Tosh: I’m a missionary, preaching the gos­
pel according to “It was in the beginning.” 
But this time it’s musically, so that the peo­
ple can dance, and because music is more 
attractive than speech.
WRCT: How have you been changing 
musically?
Tosh: I never change. I get good, better, best. 
And the best is still yet to come.
WRCT: What do you do when you’re not 
writing music?
Tosh: When I’m not writing music, I am 
making it. 24 hours a day me make music. I 
am music. There are certain people 
designed to do certain things. I was designed
to be music. Anything I say, I can sing. 
WRCT: Are there many others who can do 
this?
Tosh: Few. I can count them on my fingers. 
WRCT: Do you enjoy touring?
Tosh: No, but then again, I cannot hold up 
a bank, you see? So I have to utilize the talent 
that was given to me . . . Reggae music is a 
college, it’s a university of wisdom, knowl­
edge and understanding.
WRCT: I was curious why you did a cover 
version of “Johnny B. Goode” on your last
Subscriptions on sale
album.
Tosh: You must stop being curious. Cur- 
iousity killed the cat. Do you like the music? 
WRCT: Yes, I do.
Tosh: So, there’s nothing to be curious 
about. Could be a wish come true.
WRCT: But why did you use the work of 
someone else — the piece was originally 
written by Chuck Berry.
Tosh: Isn’t Chuck Berry a good man? ... I 
don’t make music to listen to, I make music 
to sell. You sing a song and people dance.
They don’t really see. So the music you sell, J 
the better off you’ll be, you see, because I still 
maintain my spirituality. . . “Johnny B. 
Goode” has broken many barriers because 
that’s played on stations that never play 
Reggae.
WRCT: Do you think that’s very
important?
Tosh: What do you mean do I think, / know 
that is important, so why do I think I sing? I 
want all the people in the world to know I 
sing reggae music.
r
Opera announces "La Boheme" cast
The Pittsburgh Opera, under the direc­
tion of Tito Capobianco, opens its 45th sea­
son with Giacomo Puccini’s best-loved 
opera, La Boheme, October 13 and 15 in 
Heinz Hall at 8 pm.
Patricia Craig of the Metropolitan and 
New York City Opera Companies stars as 
Mimi, and Metropolitan Opera tenor Vasile 
Moldoveanu as Rodolfo with soprano 
Leigh Munro as Musetta and Charles Long 
as Marcello. James de Blasis, General Direc­
tor of the Cincinnati Opera, is the stage 
director and Joseph Rescigno is conductor.
Miss Craig has appeared with the San 
Diego, Baltimore, Dallas and Cincinnati 
opera companies as well as with European 
opera companies of Frankfurt, Turin, 
Venice and Spoleto. She was last seen by 
Pittsburgh audiences in last season’s The 
Bartered Bride.
Rumanian tenor Moldoveanu, who is 
making his Pittsburgh Opera debut with La 
Boheme, has had great success with two 
Metropolitan Op>era telecasts Don Carlo 
and II Tabarro, and last season sang
Rodolfo with the Metropolitan Opera. He 
has sung with major opera companies all 
over the world including Covent Garden 
and the Deutsche Opera in Berlin.
A native of Landsdowne, Pennsylvania, 
Miss Munro was the opera sensation of 1978 
when she replaced Anna Moffo in Boston’s 
production of Stiffelio and received ständig 
ovations. She has since appeared at the Pitts­
burgh Opera in Die Fledermaus and The 
Magic Flute.
Charles Long, a native of Mars, Pennsyl­
vania, appeared last in the Pittburgh Opera 
production of Faust. He has also performed 
such roles as Figaro in Barber of Seville, 
Scarpia in Tosca, Tonia in Pagliacci, and 
Escamillo in Carmen.
The featured roles of Schaunard and Col- 
line will be sung by Jan Opalach and Ran­
dolph Messing.
La Boheme was first produced at the Tea- 
tro Reggio in Turin February 1,1896 under 
the direction of Arturo Toscanini. The 
opera had its English debut in 1897 and 
received its Metropolitan Opera premiere in
1900. Revived at La Scala, Milan in 1924, the 
work is included in the repertoire of all 
opera companies throught the world. Con­
sidered by many to be Puccini’s finest and 
most melodic score, the opera tells the bit­
tersweet tale of the idealistic poet Rodolfo 
and the gentle Mimi, who embroiders flow­
ers as a livelihood. They fall in love, quarrel, >
separate and reunite for a few brief moments 
before Mimi dies of consumptio. Rodolfo’s 
friends are “the Bohemians” of Paris’ Latin 
Quarter of the 1930’s.
An exquisitely tender opera, La Boheme 
has a timeless magic, warmth, and vitality 
that has made it one of the most popular 
operas ever created. Through the years, ope­
ra’s most famous singers have been asso­
ciated with La Boheme’s characters. Among 
them were Nellie Melba as Mima and 
Enrico Carusa as Rodolfo.
Tickets are $25, $24, $19, $13, $10, and $8. 
Family Circle and the Dress Circle are sold 
out. Single tickets are on sale now through 
the Heinz Hall Box Office at 281-5000.
CMU's Chamber Orchestrareleases concert seriesmusrel Dis.gnin Ha.Fsrylis
roar enly leek ixdins.ui!
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$12M
(WASH-CUT-ILOW^STYLE)
COLOR
Moil, Tool, Wed. l#-7 VJ Attwood S«ct
Than., Fii 1M SK7-XM Acnm the mm tnm
NO APPOINTMENTS °^od OBk* 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
The music department at Carnegie- 
Mellon University has announced a new 
concert series for the 1983-84 season. The 
Carnegie-Mellon Chamber Orchestra 
will present a subscription series consist­
ing of six different programs.
Under the direction of conductors 
Werner Torkanowsky and Kypros Mar- 
kou, the concerts will feature student and 
faculty soloists performing with the 
orchestra. The series will include a 
diverse repertory of chamber works from 
Bach, Handel, Mozart, Schubert, 
Brahms, Tchaikovsky, Schoenberg and 
Stravinsky.
The six concerts, spanning the school 
year from October to May, will each be 
given twice on consecutive Sunday and
photo by Carolyn Speranzi> j 
Dream Factory, Inc., formerly known as Carsickness, was one of five bands playing at 
Market Square last Saturday afternoon. See page 9 for Other bands. 1
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want. That's why at Great Expectations you II leave 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
Monday evenings at eight o’clock in the 
Alumni Concert Hall in the College o&* 
Fine Arts.
However, the series will open with the 
American premiere of “Hangman! 
Hangman!” a chamber opera by CMU 
composer Leonardo Balada, which will 
be presented at 8 p.m., October 8, 10 and 
12 in Kresge Theater in the College of 
Fine Arts. The work was commissioned 
by and performed at the Barcelona Inter­
national Music Festival last year. The 
chamber orchestra’s program will also 
include a performance of Stravinsky’^ 
"The Fox.”
For further information about the 
Carnegie-Mellon Chamber Orchestra 
subscription series or to reserve tickets, 
contact the CMU box office at 578-2407.

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1983—The Terten—Pege 13
New sound makes the difference
Def Leppard makes come back with "Pyromania"
* By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
So you’re Def Leppard’s biggest fan?
OK — take this quick quiz. Check the 
back cover of High ’N’ Dry, and name the 
pictures. Come on, you’ve seen them on 
MTV or Don Kirshner or Video 
Jukebox; this is an easy question 
. . . no?
Name the band who pro­
duced the 1980-81 hits “Wasted,” “Rock Bri­
gade,” and the rock ballad “Bringing on the 
Heartbreak.” Name the band who, in the 
i wake of their smash album (currently hold- 
f ing fast as Billboard’s number four LP) and 
a slew of hot singles, is being labelled “turn­
coat” and “sellout” by the British heavy 
metal populace. Yes, it’s Def Leppard.
Are the five young men from Sheffield, 
England comprising the band really a 
| bunch of heavy metal renegades? Hardly. 
S It’s true the band has changed - while their 
j early hits do fall into that general music 
| category, they have done everyone a favour 
I by detatching themselves from it in their 
| later material.
The reasons are simple. In the metal 
1 genre, they were at best second rate.
Drummer Rick Allen, at age 18, was leaking 
I signs of youth and inexperience. Bassist 
Rick Savage, while obviously talented, 
lacked the insanity inherent to his position. 
I Co-guitarists Pete Willis and Steve “Stea- 
Imin” Clark were not even comparable to 
I axeman combinations such as Tipton and 
JtDowning or Smith and Murray. And lead 
I singer Joe Elliott’s voice, particularly in the 
Isong “You got me Runnin,” made this 
heavy metal fan, who has enjoyed voices 
that would remove paint from walls more
¦ effectively than turpentine, cringe.
Pyromania marked the turnaround. In a
I rather quiet move, Pete Willis was asked to 
: leave the band for reasons some sources have 
hinted may be alcohol related. His replace- 
fment, Phil Collen, who looks and dresses a 
¦bit like Rod Stewart, is not necessarily a 
ibetter guitarist, but his style fits the new Def
I Leppard sound. And praise be to some Brit- 
fish vocal coach, Joe Elliott has learned to 
¦sing.
Elliott personifies the changes the band 
fhas seen. He has gone from a permed, meta-
melduriF Euddl.is
• Computer paper — $11 for 1000 sheets
— $25 for 3300 sheets (box)
• 5y4 inch lifetime floppies — SSDD
11 — DSDD — $3.95 each or $35 for 10
• Printers from $219
• Lotus 1, 2, 3 $349
• Other software hardware, supplies available
Call Mike 242-4069 
Fisher Associates
Graphics Hacker
Looking for a dynamic person who 
strongly believes in performance and 
I I code optimization, and has an intrinsic 
sense of graphics to work with some of 
| ^ the finest graphics professionals in the 
industry on the design, implementation 
and support of an integrated graphics 
I system. Knowledge of assembly 
j languages, several higher level 
languages, plus graphics experience 
is of course assumed.
I If interested, please direct your resume 
with salary history to: Personnel 
Manager, MASSCOMP, 543 Great 
Road, Littleton, MA 01460. An Equal 
Opportunity Employer. MASSCOMP 
is the trademark of the Massachusetts 
Computer Corporation.
lesque screecher wearing sequined shirts 
and loose pants to a sandy-haired teen sex 
star in leather pants and muscle shirts. 
Indeed, a good many of Leppard’s female 
fans are more interested in him than in what 
he’s singing.
This is not to say cosmedc changes are 
solely responsible for the band’s rise in 
popularilty — they’re not. Looks do not sell 
albums. Pyromania is a million-seller 
because Def Leppard is now playing in a 
genre — mainstream rock — in which it can 
excel. The average audience, to whom a 
strong beat, infectuous melody and overall 
energedc sound appeals, has accepted and 
enthusiastically welcomed this charismatic 
young band.
To the new Lepperd fan, their older albums 
may not be worth buying; the music is some­
what different and may or may not be 
appealing, though the best thing the band 
has done to date, “Bringing on the Heart­
break/Switch 625” (not the single release) is 
on High TV’ Dry. Oh, and before you put the 
album away, here are the quiz answers: 
clockwise from the upper left — Rick Allen, 
Pete Willis, Steve Clark, and Rick Savage; 
center — Joe Elliott.
Note: Three new bands to look out for: 
Twisted Sister, Helix, and Queensryche . . . 
Twisted Sister is from the New York area
and has already gained a respectable follow­
ing in England. Their make-up is from the 
Kiss collection and their clothes from the 
Go-Go’s fashion catalogue, but the music is 
solid rock. Their album, “Long Live Rock 
’n’ Roll” as well as a single of the same title 
have recendy been released . . . Helix is a 
Canadian band following the path cut by 
Coney Hatch last year — in fact, they even 
sound like Coney Hatch. Helix is their 
American debut album, “Heavy Metal
The drama department at Camegie- 
Mellon University will perform three main- 
stage productions in the coming season. 
They are: The Greeks, Jean Anouilh’s 
Legend of Lovers and the musical version of 
Candide.
The Greeks, adapted by John Barton, is 
based on the plays of Aeschylus, Sophocles 
and Euripedes and Homer’s epic poems, 
The Iliad and The Odyssey. It actually con­
sists of three evenings of drama with the 
audience able to opt for a Saturday satura­
tion subscription when all three shows will 
run in succession from 1 to 8 p.m. Greek 
food and additional Greek entertainment 
will be provided during breaks.
“The Greeks” is under the direction of
Love” is the single. Interesting stuff... The 
Most Likely to Succeed is Queensryche, 
from the American Northwest. They 
recendy released an impressive four—cut Ep 
that includes “Queen of the Reich” and 
“The Lady Wore Black.” Michael Wilton 
and Chris DeGarmo show potential as co­
guitarists, and Geoff Tate has a voice that 
will be around for a while ... Forthcoming: 
a review of Cheap Trick’s “Next Position, 
Please.”
Jorge Guerra, assistant professor, Victoria 
Santa Cruz, visiting professor, and Mel Sha­
piro, drama department head. It will run 
Thursday through Saturday from 
November 9 to December 10.
Edward Payson Call, founding artistic 
director of the Denver Center Theatre Com­
pany, will direct Legend of Lovers, based on 
the myth of Eurydice and Orpheus. Legend 
of Lovers is slated for Wednesday through 
Saturday, February 15 to March 3.
Broadway choreographer Billy Wilson 
will direct and choreograph Candide, a joint 
production of the drama and music depan­
men ts.
For further information, contact the 
CMU box office at 578-2900.
Wete looking for people who dont think straight.
If you’ve always lœked for what’s 
around the comer rather than what is 
straight ahead, consider a career with 
Linkabit.
Linkabit didn’t get to where it is today 
by way of tunnel vision. We re a leader in 
the design, development and manufacture 
of satellite and terrestrial communications 
equipment, specializing in local 
communication networks, encnption. 
forward error correction and high speed 
modulation. Our people are very creative, 
free thinking individuals who look beyond 
obvious solutions to find advanced, 
innovative ways to meet the demanding 
needs of this industry.
To help keep new ideas flowing, 
we've made sure that all career paths are 
flexible. Our engineers, for instance, are 
assigned to projects depending on their 
interests and abilities. As one assignment 
is completed, new opportunities are made 
available in a variety of areas.
Because our projects are very diverse 
and complex, we utilize the most advanced 
equipment available. And our staff is 
comprised of professionals with a wide 
range of expertise.
Our company is expanding rapidly, 
and we’re constantly kx)king for talented 
people interested in communications 
systems, digital hardware or software 
engineering. We have positions available 
in San Diego, Boston and Washington. D.C.
On Campus Interviews
Friday, October 7
Please contact your College 
Placement Office to arrange an interview 
appointment. If you are unable to meet 
with our representatives, please forward 
your resume with college transcripts to: 
Dennis Vincent. M/ A-ÜOM LINKABIT 
3033 Science Park Road. San Diego.
CA 92121.
Agfa
-8-M/A-COM LINKABIT, INC.Equal OpportunityAffirmative Action Employer
The Greeks, et al.
Classics come to CMU
1 MASSCOMP
Building A Certqifi,Çxcitqrfiept,

---------------------------------------------------

AaFk Liu.niJOE FREEHAAN
WELL, Tv WV flRST 7j
60HV, W 6iT The
Nwspar ooo
" \M/(THíN Kilt
/\ HtM....
fCnCgi -wrf MlUvtaCCCy,Pbu 
THAT’S ITA IT’S 
LIKE TO QE iQlC.i OIDNT)0(J 
A TÜMIORÍrr'v TfUTHÍM?
-rmw« TAST, 
too 1ww5pU
EcEEPOOLA.toail Eusslan
EILImON
mOAPILATION
AND THE
ART OF
AcTOAATIm
AImROmHIP
DEEIGN
RONALD F. AYRES
Editoral. 5 7:30dl WoiFFirr Rl
A lecture on the designing of automated manufac­
turing systems presented by IBM.
«1HcR.0mT.6 Hal re 4dl Ek.be
A conference where students from Balimnm 
all academic disciplines are invited to 
come and talk informally with company representatives.
Featuring...
? Bell Labs. * Polaroid Corp.? General Electric ? Lawrence-Livermore? Hewlett-Packard ? Coming Glass Works? EL DuPont * IBM? Day Research ? >AMF Inc.? ALCOA ? General Motors? GTE Corp. ? lAfe/ig Laòs /ne.? DEC * Procter & Gamble
VLSI: Silicon Compilation and the Art of Automatic Microchip Design 
Ronald F. Ayres 
Published By Prentice Hall
The first published introduction and guide to the most exciting field of 
development in computer science today world-wide — richly illustrated, 
encyclopedic, of fresh, vital improtance to industry and technology, as well as 
pure information science. This fundamental textbook covers for the first time 
the rapidly emerging field of automated design of microchips with emphasis 
on silicon compilation. Within today’s knowledge explosion of computer
science, this text promises to be the most important, industrially useful, an 
academically challenging in the field. $49.95 -v
•emu bookstore*
IN BAKER HALL
? Texas Instruments
Sponsored by the CMU Student Branches of 
SWE and IEEE

---------------------------------------------------

Lineman Mike O’Donnell leads defense to second straight shutout
Tartans trounce favored Hiram, 46-0
# By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Hiram Terriers got on the bus Satur­
day morning as the President’s Athletic 
Conference’s favored team. A two-hour 
drive brought them to Tech Field to play the 
Tartans of Camegie-Mellon. When the Ter­
riers got back on the bus three hours later, 
they were in shock.
Hiram Assistant Coach Lyde said simply, 
“It was just a blowout.” Freshman quarter­
back Mike Hensel, the fourth QB to play for 
(he Tartans, ran 93 yards from scrimmage as 
time ran out to cap a 46—0 shutout.
Tartan Coach Chuck Klausing’s wing-T 
offense churned out 353 yards rushing, bal­
anced among eleven runners. The Terriers 
rushed for 38 yards. Hiram quarterback 
Jason Gorrica was forced to throw 56 passes, 
of which he completed 32. Unfortunately 
for Gorrica, six of those completed passes 
were to the Camegie-Mellon defense.
Hie defense completely dominated the 
Terriers. Nose tackle Joe Naidone was 
^jnamed the Skoal Player of the Week, but 
anyone could have been named. Some sug­
gested Defensive Coach Don Poluszek 
should win the award. Comerback Andy 
James said, “The entire team played well. 
The front line got pressure on Gorrica the 
whole game. We were well prepared. Coach 
Poluszek got us ready, and all we had to do 
was execute.”
Linebacker Mike O’Donnell said, “Coach 
Polu had us ready.”
Comerback Jim Chrise said, “Our 
defense was really tough. We were really 
prepared, I was worried before the game. A 
lot of their stuff was hard to defend against, 
but we did it.”
James took a second quarter Gorrica pass 
29 yards in the direction Gorrica didn’t 
intend it to go. James turned a return into 
six points. “I was a flanker in high school, 
so I was used to running,” James said.
Chrise made key punt returns time and 
again to put the Tartans in good field posi­
tion. This had been a trouble spot of late, 
but Chrise said, “We were supposed to line 
up 35 to 40 yards away, but opposing kickers 
were kicking too short. And the up-man 
(who lines up approximately 15 yards in 
from of Chrise) and I couldn’t deride on 
who would take it. But we worked it out 
today.”
Kicker Rob Fleischmann kicked two field 
goals, 32 and 41 yards lespectively. The 41 
yaider had plenty of distance. Fleischmann 
said, “It was just how I like it. It was real 
high, straight, and far.” It was Fleisch­
mann’s second 40-plus yard field goal in two 
weeks.
The only distressing moment for Tartan 
fans was when the Terriers Tom Collins 
was taken off on a stretcher in a CMU security 
truck. Collins’ injury was reported to be a 
broken vertebrae. A Hiram coach said it was 
not as serious as it sounds and that a Tartan 
player had the same injury last year. He only 
missed two weeks.
The offensive player of the game could 
have been offensive tackle Ross Jicomelli. 
Play after play the Tartans ran off-tackle to 
the right side, where Jicomelli was opening 
mammoth holes in the Hiram defense.
One run to the left side was the Tartans 
second play from scrimmage. Wingback Joe 
Vasalani ran 62 yards, finally being taken 
down at the Hiram twenty yard line, setting 
up Fleischmann’s 32 yard field goal.
Nardone Skoal's player
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffwriter 
In a game void of errors and full of ste­
rling performances, it can be difficult to sin­
gle out one individual. Nevertheless, via a 
draw from a hat, the WRCT sports staff 
| chose senior captain Joe Nardone as the 
Skoal player of the game in this week’s Tar­
tan crushing of the Hiram Terriers.
“It was our coaching, especially our def­
ensive coordinator (Coach Don Poluszek),” 
commented the senior nose guard, in refer­
ence to the incredibly strong play of the 
defense. “We were very ready. We knew their 
formations. We knew what they were 
f gonna’ run, and where they were gonna’ run 
it. The secondary knew every pass play. We 
were so prepared.”
Last season, the Tartans put together a 
strong second half comeback, only to fall 
short in losing to the Terriers, 21-19. The 
Beaver Falls, Pa. resident remembers in ref­
erence to last year’s loss, “We were pretty
Flanker Joe Vasalani breaks into open on 62-yard run.ruoto uy jonn Kogers
Backs Jim Morrison, Vasalani, Victor 
Boland, Dave Zito and Hensel all had over 
40 yards. The “Go” and ‘White” teams were 
alternated every two series most of the game, 
a switch from the quarter by quarter alterna­
tion of the past two games. The attack was 
more balanced, with both quarterbacks, Zito 
and Joe Mollica, threw seven passes. Zito ran 
for 49 yards, including a key 10-yard run on 
fourth-and-two at the Hiram twelve. Mollica 
ran for two touchdowns of one and two yards.
The Tartans were hurt by eleven penalties
and three lost fumbles. Morrison said, 
“We’ll come out erf the films Monday feeling 
like we lost. Coach Klausing will make us 
remember those stats.”
The team leaves Pittsburgh for the first 
time next week to play Thiel College. The 
domination erf Hiram makes next week 
tougher, because everyone must guard 
against a letdown. Fleischmann hopes it 
goes like this week. "Us winning, no one 
injured, and I made all my kicks. What more 
could you ask for?”
ticked off. We wanted to come back and 
beat’em this season, but we had to wait a 
whole year to do it.”
Interesungly enough, Nardone wasn’t 
always a nose guard. He was all-conference, 
all-tri-county, and a participant in the Pen­
nsylvania — Ohio State Line Bowl as a nose 
guard and as an offensive guard at Riverside 
High School.
Things changed when Joe came to CMU. 
“I came to camp freshman year as an offen­
sive guard. But there were depth problems, 
so I wound up playing nose guard — my 
second position.” And played he did. Nar­
done was first team all-conference (President 
Athletic Conference) and second team all­
district as a sophomore.
Nardone is a Technical Writing major in 
the College of Humanities and Social Scien­
ces. When he graduates this May, Joe hopes 
to begin working, and a few years later, to 
start his own firm.
IM season continues
Difinn.ng toalds anl.r bleweur
only run.
In other IM sports, women’s touch foot­
ball still has room for more teams, while in 
men’s major touch football, the schedule 
has been changed.
In water polo, each team must have a 
certified lifeguard on duty during the 
match.
In co-ret volleyball, a rules clinic isa must 
for all teams. It is set for tonight in Thistle 
Hall at 4:30 p.m. Finally, Chatham College is 
looking for players for men’s co-rec volley­
ball. Interested spikers and setters should 
contact Mike Bonannoat 441-8200, ext. 239.Tartan runners, including halfback Gerard Sanson, combined for 353 yards rushing.
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffwriter
There’s good news for golfers and runners 
this week. In intramural golf, the E.J. Biidy 
Open will be held at Schenley Park golf 
course on Sunday, October 9 at 9:00 a.m. It’s 
still not too late to enter. The tournament 
will be post entry. Each team should consist 
of 4 golfers.
As for running, the IM cross-country meet 
will be Wednesday, October 12 at 4:30 pm, 
on Flagstaff Hill. The 1.9 mile run is also 
post-entry, and can be run individually or by 
teams erf 5. There will also be a women’s

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—September 27, 1983
Photo by Bob Fishel
Tartan defense credited Coach Poluszek for second consecutive shutout
Defensive coach comes from coal minina town
By ROSEMARY HINTEREGGER
Tartan Staffmritrr
Don Poluszek is the defensive coach of the 
Tartans — a football team that has won four 
out of the last six conference titles. This year 
his defense has given up an average of only 
five points per game. Yet Poluszek accepts 
little praise for this remarkable team saying, 
“Too much credit is given to the coach 
when the team wins, and too much blame is 
placed when they lose.”
One wonders what makes a Don Poluszek 
what he is. Well, Poluszek was very much 
involved in sports as a child. Bom in 1937, 
he grew up in Moundsville, West Virginia, a 
small coal-mining town in the heart of the 
Ohio valley. Poluszek’s father worked in the 
mines as did his grandfather, uncles and 
most erf the other Moundsville men.
Poluszek remembers his childhood as a 
happy one. Television wasn’t as common as 
today. Boys played baseball without Little 
League. And neither video games nor com­
puters even entered a kid’s mind. Neighbor­
hood children had fun without any of these 
modem conventions. In the fall, kids would 
play football, turning to basketball in the 
winter, and then in the spring and summer, 
the local baseball diamond was always 
occupied.
Poluszek said, “In today’s society, 
too much artificial entertainment. Kids and 
adults rely too much on television, radio and 
they’ve lost the ability to just have fun with­
out any of this. I watch sporting events and 
once in a while a comedy, but I’m not sitting 
in front erf the television from seven to eleven 
every evening.”
Poluszek played football, basketball, and 
baseball for Moundsville High School, gra­
duating in 1954. After a two-year service in 
the Army, he went to Alderson-Broaddus 
College, where he played football.
Graduating in 1960 with a double major 
in mathematics and physical education, 
Poluszek spent the next eighteen years
Poluszek observes his “Red Rush” from the press box during Saturday’s game.
Homecoming83
Mr. and Miss 
Varsity
nominations are due 
Wednesday 
September 28
See your RA, club president, or 
fraternity/sorority representative 
for details.
Voting is October 12 from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. in Skibo.
Alse . . .
Float registrations are still 
being accepted. Bring your reg­
istration to Warner Hall 505 by
The
coaching in high schools in the Tri-State 
area, the last eleven of those years for Weir- 
ton High School in Weirton, West Virginia.
In his fcx>tball days, Poluszek played cen­
ter. He doesn’t even begin to compare him­
self to the boys he now coaches, though. 
“No, I was not as good. These guys are really 
terrific athletes.”
Poluszek has been happily married to his 
wife Jean for the past twenty-six years and 
has three sons, Chris, Craig and Cameron. 
All three played football under Poluszek at 
Weirton High School. Chris and Craig went 
to West Virginia University, and Cameron 
is a sophomore here at Camegie-Mellon 
playing football for his father.
Poluszek likes most aspects of football 
including nearly every side of coaching. “I 
think coaching is working with the kids, 
watching them develop, grow, and 
improve. It can be a creative job. Every coach 
does his job differendy to achieve the same 
goal of having the best team possible.” 
Poluszek has a good line-up of Tartans 
this year, boys of which he is extremely 
proud. “They are well-rounded individuals. 
They’re hard working, and they’re deve­
loped in every way. How good we will be 
depends on hard work, lack of injuries and 
more. We have the potential. Now we’ll see 
what happens.”
Poluszek is very dedicated to Camegie- 
Mellon, traveling every day from West Vir­
ginia to Pittsburgh. On Saturdays, when the 
previous week’s hard work pays off, Jean 
can be seen at the games cheering for the 
Tartans as both son and husband are 
involved in the game.
The most important part of football for 
Poluszek is not the game and the score. “The 
practices, the warm-ups, the football films.. 
all of that is ninety percent of football. The 
game on Saturday is only a small part of the 
sport”
Watching Poluszek at a practice, one noti­
ces immediately how attentive the players 
are. Even when not speaking directly to a 
player, the defenseman listens to Poluszek’s 
words and directions.
Poluszek is an outdoors enthusiast. For 
relaxation, he jogs a bit, plays a little basket­
ball, once in a while some golf is in order, 
but according to this hard-working man, 
“Coaching is demanding timewise. There’s 
just not enough time to pursue much 
afterwards.”
Yet Poluszek does take a rest once in a 
while and vacations with his family to 
Southern West Virginia to visit with old 
friends and family. He fishes and boats in 
the mountain streams and takes it easy.
Poluszek enjoys his job here at CMU. “Of 
all the years I’ve worked in many places. I 
can’t really think erf a place I’d rather be than 
here at Carnegie. The kids, the staff are just 
great, great people. It’s a great place.”
Tartans rebounding
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Staffumlrr
Baseball fans are now busy worrying 
about the pro playoffs. But at CMU, the fall 
is just the beginning for the CMU baseball 
club, or team as they should be called.
During the school year, the team has two 
seasons: fall and spring. Since it is not a 
varsity club, the Tartans have the luxury of 
this situation, but on the minus side the 
guys on the squad are forced to supply some 
of the expenses from their own pocket, like 
money for gas to all games.
The 1983 season looked to be a downer for 
the squad due to the loss erf key seniors like 
Mike Seel, Ed Novak, Andy Rossi, Mike 
Homer, and Joe Schwa’s. However, coach 
Bill Allen has put together a scrappy team 
led by captains Tim Nagy and Bob Flaheny 
and have done fairly well so far. After an 
early sweep by Duquesne, in which CMU 
failed to score in either game, the Tartans 
have rebounded solidly, winning two and 
losing three — all in the last inning.
In the third game against Community 
College of Beaver County (CCBC), the Tar­
tans were provided with an outstanding 
pitching performance by senior Bob 
“Duke” Kiebler. The big guy went 11 strong 
innings, throwing over 200 pitches, but 
unfortunately the team couldn’t pull it out, 
and Allen was forced to pull him. Sopho­
more Dan Burgundy came in for the 12th 
but had control problems and CCBC got 
one on a sacrifice fly. CMU had taken leads
of 2-0 and 7-5 on the strength erf the bats erf 
Nagy and Kiebler, both of whom had three 
RBI’s.
The following Sunday, the Tartans were 
again struck by the late inning bug in the 
first game of a double header against Penn 
State-McKeesport. CMU had scored three 
runs in the top of sixth on a Kiebler double 
and a two run single by left fielder andJ 
junior Larry ‘Rope-a-dope’ Ropelewski, 
knocking in sophomore Richie Theg and 
Burgundy who had walked. They held a 3-1 
lead going into the last inning with starter 
Burgundy pitching a masterful game.
Burgundy, though, got tired and with no 
available hurlers on the bench, Allen was 
forced to stick with the righthander. He got 
two outs but one run had scored, and a man 
was on. Then — bang, a two out, two run 
homer over the right field fence and the , 
Tartans went down again.
In the second game, CMU got revenge as 
the bats came alive for a 12-5 victory. Lead­
ing the onslaught was litde-used right 
fielder Scotty Detillo. The sophomore 
powered two home nms over the left center- 
field fence, knocking in three runs. Also 
aiding in the massacre were Theg, getting 
two hits, including a solo shot to right, 
Kiebler with a two-run double, and John 
Spanos, the sophomore shortstop, who had 
three hits and scored two runs. Flaherty 
went all seven to get the win. Kudos also to 
Timmy Nagy for catching both ends of the 
continued on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1983—The Tartan—Page 17
[Haui Fiifs, w.ll rFauil
IMew organization of enthusiasts takes a dive
Bv MARGARET WISMER
farton Staffuniter
The definition comes from self-contained 
underwater breathing apparatus, and thanks 
to a few enthusiasts, the club is now an 
entity at CMU. The reference, of course, is to 
the Scuba Club which is now comprised of
12 cerufied divers. Though not yet one year 
aid, the club has propagated its interests by 
organizing trips and giving lessons for
:ertificarion.
Pittsburgh is not the most conducive 
environment for scuba. Generally, the com- 
non man does not know or care what exists 
100 feet below the Allegheny. For the inquis­
itive, however, the rewards are tremendous: 
iey include wearing a funny outfit, jump­
ing into another ecosystem and having a 
rood time. The club realizes this potential 
md hopes to frequent diving sites such as 
felson Ledges and maybe even Florida 
springs to quell their passion for diving. 
Veteran diver Henry Schmitt, a former 
)mp Sci major, was the main force behind 
ie club’s inception. After obtaining the 
*lessing of Student Senate, he fished out 
)ther divers on campus and the Scuba Club 
ras bom in the fall of ‘82. Thanks to the 
ervices of Richard Lauer of Sub-Aquatics, 
ie club was able to sponsor lessons in the 
fpring.
Club leader Kathryn Larina was certified 
^fter taking the lessons. Because of her stu­
dent status, she took over Schmitt’s place 
dien he retired to Alumnus advisor. Hav­
ing dove only four times, Larina positively 
ibbled over with how fun the sDort is.
Occassionally, she’s had wondering fish 
give her a sideways glance, but says she 
doesn’t really mind. She figures that if she 
can do it to them, they can do it to her. She 
also emphasized the novelty of learning to 
swim with a wet suit and lead weight. She 
admits it’s a little different from freestyle.
The lessons start off at the pool where 
future divers practice four weeks using 
masks, fins and snorkels with compressed 
air tanks. (The instructors will advise one 
not to use oxygen since it is toxic below 33 
ft.) The main requirement for taking 
courses is to overcome any inhibitions about
water. It’s a pretty strange experience to 
breath underwater, and oftentimes people 
must be reminded. After the eight week 
course and two check-out dives, a diver is 
certified for life.
Both Schmitt and Larina point out that 
learning to use the equipment requires very 
little time. Most of the course is spent 
informing students how to get out of proble­
matic situations. They emphasize the stay- 
cool philosophy whether the compressed air 
tanks break or the diver finds himself amidst 
a school of barricuda. The latter experience 
actually has happened to Schmitt.
Aside from providing lessons, the club is 
trying to get trips together for its certified 
members. Club member Julia Gale, who 
helps with lessons and organizing diving 
excursions, admits to the difficulty in 
obtaining commitments. The time and 
expenses incurred in the sport often dampen 
peoples’ enthusiasm. However, the expe­
rienced insist the rewards are well worth the 
effort. Most of the members either own their 
equipment or rent it from Sub-Aquatics.
Presently the club is planning a day trip 
this Sunday (Oct. 2) to Nelson’s Ledges, a 
quarry in Ohio. Schmitt also hopes they can 
take extensive weekend or even Spring 
Break trips to places like Lake Erie or Flor­
ida Springs. The club enjoys trips like these 
because the quarrys in Pittsburgh have fresh 
water in them, and there’s nothing much to 
see save what one would normally find in a 
quarry. The Springs, however, are salt water 
with all kinds of aquatic life to observe and 
be observed by.
ield hockey dominates
artans come back to defeat former nemesis
y SEAN QUINN
'arton Staffwmrr 
“We dominated the tournament.”
That’s what CMU Field Hockey Coach 
oan Maser claimed about the Pennwood 
Zest Conference Invitational, held two 
veeks ago at Tech Field. But, the Tartans 
ame out of the tourney with a 3-1 record. 
Hie game times were cut in half, so the 
Tartans could not wear down the opposi- 
ion as they usually do. The result was a 
ough 2-1 overtime loss against Lake Erie 
College. Now, the Tartans had 3 games in 4 
lays, an exhausting week to look towards. 
Fhe Wednesday home match against 
Jethany was rained out which, explained
Maser, “was a blessing in disguise,” 
because, although the team was hungry to 
play, it allowed them to get “caught up in 
their work.”
They’d be ready for the weekend games at 
Washington and Jefferson, and at Lake 
Erie, Maser warned that she wasn’t kidding.
The Tartans ripped their opponents to 
shreds. On Friday, the final was CMU over 
W and J, 2-1; and Saturday the final over­
time score read CMU 5, Lake Erie 1. Against 
W and J, the CMU offense was provided by 
Laura Ciarallo and Maria Kuzo. The field 
was extremely fast, which makes it difficult 
for both teams, but, as usual, the Tartan 
front-liners controlled the ball most of the
game. The only weakness the Tartans did 
show was on defense, where, owing to their 
strong offense, it rarely plays. They give up 
too high a percentage of goals for the 
amount of time the opposition is posing a 
scoring threat. Maser stated that a lot of the 
defensive problems stem from four new star­
ters on the back line. She plans to “work on 
cutting down these percentages this week.”
Against Lake Erie, the Tartans again con­
trolled the game. But. as time expired, the 
score was tied 1-1.
The CMU goal was scored by Amy Rob­
bins. Maser exclaimed, “the team was really 
frustrated because they outclassed Erie, but 
only scored one goal.” The game was very
Soccer comes back from disappointment
ty SCOTT BOZIC
arton Staffuniter
Nothing like a conference opening blow- 
ut to boost a team’s morale. The Tartan 
occer team got just what the doctor ordered 
>n Friday, a 4-0 shut-out of Hiram in their 
onferenoe opener. This came on the heels 
>f a heartbreaking 2-1 overtime loss to Pitt- 
ohnstown in CMU’s Tournament finale 
n Monday.
“We needed to win this game since we 
ere down after the loss to Pitt-Johnstown,” 
id Charlie Lockhead, who scored two 
°als in the win on Friday;
“That was a tough loss after going into 
vertime with them,” added Captain Neal 
dnk, who has scored in every game thus far 
r the Tartans.
The Tartans advanced to the Touma- 
ent final by pounding West Liberty State 
In that game the squad scored five 
ond-half goals while outshooung their
pponents 44-1. Alex Tomlinson and Neal 
rink scored one goal each and Ted Anderer 
¦nd Charlie Lockhead put in two each in 
season opener.
The following day versus Pitt-Johnstown 
the Tartans still outshot their opponents 
26-9 but lost when Pitt-Johnstown tied the 
score late in the game and won it in overtime 
on a long shot that went over the head of 
keeper Sam Montague.
“We didn’t capitalize on any advantages,” 
remarked forward Ted Anderer. “Whoever 
does that will win. That’s why they won the 
game.”
Coach Gaudioso felt that the team was 
rather disappointed with the loss to Pitt- 
Johnstown and this may have been a factor 
in the victory on Friday.
The team got off to a slow start, going 
scoreless in the first half but got on track in 
the second half when freshman John 
McNamara headed in a goal to break the ice. 
“That was my first college goal,” he 
remarked, “and it felt great.” His goal was 
followed by a goal by Frink and two more 
from Charlie Lockhead.
“We knew we could beat this team, it was 
just a matter of getting things started,” said 
Frink. “Once that first goal went in we 
became confident and scored several more in
a short time.”
The team travels to Slippery Rock this 
afternoon for what Gaudioso feels will be a 
“very tough game” with a record of 2-1,1-0.
physical, with a lot of body contact, which 
came about from CMU’s agressive front­
line.
Now, a Tartan team that made the 3 h 
hour journey to Erie faced overtime. It was 
time to show Erie who was really the better 
team. CMU scored four overtime goals, the 
first by Mary Ann Sacco and the final three 
by Kuzo. Erie looked more like the team that 
had to bus home. Robbins summed up the 
two games with the familiar theme, “We 
dominated both games.”
Maser’s team is at a “skill level that’s a lot 
higher this year,” including "extremely 
skilled” rookies. The defense is a weakness, 
but it is improving. As Sacco commented, 
they “played better against Erie, than 
against W and J.” With two weeks of 
momentum behind them, the Tartans are 
looking forward to the rest of this fall’s sche­
dule, which resumes this afternoon at 4:30 
on Tech Field against Bethany. It’s domi­
nating time again.
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTINGLSAT/GMAT
PREPARATION COURSES
NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-hr or 32-hr. “Weekender" courses 
Live lectures • Simulated exam conditions • Special home-study 
materials • Tape library • Up-to-date course materials • Counseling
LSAT I GMAT 32-hr begins 10.-8
COURSESthe Dec. 3 ExamCOURSES
For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering the LSAT/GMAT exams and the Law School Graduate Business School admission process, call now
T0UF8CE(800) 223-2618
The national Center for Educational festin« 
1271 2rU of tlie Americas. Suite 777
k, R.Y.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—September 27, 1983
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE c™“
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
' « . J - * t ¦>>•».
Everyone got into the act in the 46-0 shutout of Hiram.
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU volleyball team had a very busy 
start last week.
On Tuesday, they played two teams, Pen­
nsylvania State University -Fayette and Bar­
rett, and easily defeated them.
Wednesday night CMU played Duquesne 
University but lost 1-3. “Considering we are 
Division III and they are higher up, I 
thought it was very impressive that they had 
to work for a score” exclaims Janet Stariha, 4 
a sophomore and captain of die team.
On Friday the team travelled two hours to 
Thiel College in Greenville, Pa. for the 
Women’s Volleyball Invitational tourney. 
Seven teams played each other Friday night 
and all day Saturday.
“We are better than our team was last 
year, especially in the areas of blockiong, 
spiking, and coverage,” says Stariha. A key 
player in the first two areas was Liz Smith.
Coach Jane Fisk is having nearly all team 
members try out the setting position until 
she can find someone who has the style she 
is looking for.
Heinrich Pan, the assistant coach, feels 
that, “The girls need to improve communi­
cation with each other and not depend on 
the other players to always get the ball.”
Other good points about the volleyball 
tournament included, “We got experience 
out of working with each other, and we 
checked out the teams in our division. We’re 
going to surprise them,” says Stariha.
On Tuesday, September 27 th, Volleyball 
will be having a home game against Indiana 
University erf Pa. at 5:00 p.m.
Baseball finishes 
tough series
continued from page 16
Next on CMU’s list was a home series 
with the Colonials from Robert Morris. The 
favored visitors came to Mellon Field wid: ,v 
victory in mind but instead got their butts 
whipped 11-5. Spanos, who hadn’t pitched 
at all this year, hurled a classic complete 
game, using location rather than stuff to 
retire the men from Moon Township. On 
the offensive side of the ledger, key hits were 
delivered by sophomore Bill Yankovich, 
RBI single, Spanos, a two-run single, Nagy, 
a double knocking in two, and the Duke 
with a two-RBI double. ,
In the return affair, again the Tartans 
took a lead into the bottom of the last inning 
only to come away with a loss. Starter Bob 
Kiebler went the whole way but just lost his 
control in the seventh, walking four, includ­
ing the tying run.
CMU’s next home game will be Wednes­
day against St. Vincent starting at 2:30. It 
will be played at Mellon Field near Cha­
tham College.
Velliyball 
w.ns ias.ly
By MARIA RIVAS ^
E-Systems continues the tradition of the world’s great problem solvers.
Steinmetz was one of 
the few geniuses concerned 
with the practical aspects 
of electrical engineering.
His pragmatic analytical 
approach led to the de­
velopment of efficient 
electrical power grids as 
we know them today.
Scientists and en­
gineers at E-Systems are 
carrying on in his tradition. 
Through the combination of 
sophisticated analytical and 
simulation techniques, they 
are evolving optimal system
solutions to some of the 
world’s toughest problems 
in electronics.
E-Systems is recog­
nized as one of the world’s 
leading problem-solving 
companies in the design 
and production of com­
munications, data, antenna, 
intelligence and recon­
naissance systems that are 
often the first-of-a-kind in 
the world.
For a reprint of the 
Steinmetz illustration and
information on career op­
portunities with E-Systems 
in Texas, Florida, Indiana, 
Utah or Virginia, write:
Lloyd K. Lauderdale, V.P., 
Research and Engineering, 
E-Systems, Corporate 
Headquarters, P. O.
Box 226030, Dallas,
Texas 75266.
E-EYETEAE
The problem solvers.
An equal opportunity employer M F H V
Chartes Proteus Steinmatz 1065-1923
Our Greenville Division will be on campus interviewing October 7,1983
.lHTJàk V-lj» ÏÎ» rii irt jttSil If îfj'W t Im'liit uff

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1983—The Tartan—Page 19
Writer runs ten for story
13,000 adventurers stampede down Forbes Ave.
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffurriter
Daybreak on a Sunday Morning and the 
frats have fallen silent. As CMU slumbers, 
13,000 adventurers drag themselves out of 
bed into the chilled morning air. A few 
hours prior to daybreak, nobody would 
guess that the best runners in the U.S. are 
about to run the Great Race.
The course starts in Frick Park densely 
packed with a mixture of fine-tuned athletes 
and fun-loving socialites. This is not simply 
a race; it is an event. When only the first 
couple hundred are counted crossing the 
finish line, it figures that something more 
than than the lure of competition draws the 
participants.
This is Pittsburgh’s seventh annual 10K 
Great Race in which John Daub finished in 
28:52 to win while the women’s winner 
cruised in at 34:07. But, it was the 13,000 also 
rans who make it great. Shaking their sleepi­
ness, they jump into shorts and T-shirt and 
brave the 39° air temperature at 8:00 in the 
morning.
Though it sounds bizarre, there must be 
something besides free soda-pop and a cou­
ple oranges to make it all worthwhile. For 
one thing, it is a good time, as thousands of 
people come charging down Forbes Ave. in
seemingly chaotic fashion. The runners 
turn down Morewood as they tromp across 
the ATO lawn and then spread out a mile 
along Fifth. The course goes down to Craft 
onto the Boulevard of the Allies where a cool 
breeze comes off the Monongahela. Into 
downtown people start sprinting for the last 
0.2 miles into Point Park where most com­
moners finished the 6.2 mile course in 45 
minutes to an hour.
After a few complimentary Mountain 
Dews and an orange the runners cool down 
and talk runner’s talk — either reminiscing 
over past Great Races or looking ahead to 
improve their time in the next. Though over 
99% of them will never win, they can at least 
say they did it.
Margaret Wismer is a sophomore in Elec­
trical Engineering who ran in the Great 
Race and finished with a time of 47:30.
Tennis team sweeps tournament
y PAULINE KRAMER
'artan Features Editor
Apparently tired of losing, the tennis team 
xecuted a strong turnaround against non- 
Onference opponent Geneva College and 
onference rival St. Francis College. The 
artans swept all three singles and two dou- 
les matches in each match-up. 
Unfortunately, the Tartans weren't able 
3 fully revel in their victories because of the 
oss of injured player Liza Reed. With a 
‘fj^vere and painful case of tennis elbow, the 
unior may be sidelined for the remainder of 
[he season.
As a result, Laurie Arendas and Beth 
Dougherty moved up a notch to first dou­
bles while Pauline Kramer, minus doubles 
partner Reed, teamed up with Leslie Inglese 
pt #2 doubles. Both teams easily weathered 
the changes, save for a tough fight from St. 
Francis’ #1 doubles, forcing the Tartans to
win in three sets, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. The doubles 
teams dropped just five games in the three 
remaining matches.
Bridget Kyne, once again displaying accu­
rate consistency, showed no mercy at #1 sin­
gles by relinquishing a mere 2 games in 
both matches.
Darla Messick appears to have found a 
home at second single, showing that she can 
maintain her concentration against a weak 
Geneva player (6-1,6-0) as well as bear down 
and take a three-setter (3-6, 6-3, 6-1) against 
St. Francis.
Third single player Loma Miller had 
probably the easiest task of the entire team. 
After completely shutting down and pre­
venting her Geneva opponent from winning a 
game last Thursday, she won by forfeit on 
Saturday against St. Francis.
She’ll need the rest, as will the rest of the
team, for an expected tough W 8c J match 
tomorrow at home. On Thursday, the team 
travels to Bethany and will make up a 
rained-out match against Chatham on 
Saturday.
photo by Erik Horn
The Tartans swept St. Francis in singles action.
A UDITIONS:
Auditions for 
Scotch ’N Soda’s 
fall productions of
Albee’s
The Zoo Story
Saroyan’s
Hello Out There
and a
Scotch ’N Soda original
will be held on
Saturday, Oct., 1 
at 2:00 p.m. 
in Skibo 40D.
// you cannot make this date or have any ques­
tions about the audition, please contact Gary 
or Victor at x4382.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
tlass.f.ins
USA TODAY, the new national newspaper, 
needs a campus representative to sell and deliver 
subscriptions of USA TODAY on campus. Job 
requires sales ability and person must be willing 
to work mornings Monday through Friday. No 
weekend work. Excellent commission. You’ll 
run your own business. Car helpful. Starts imme­
diately. Call Lynne Devlin toll free, (800) 242- 
2522.
Buy your subscription today to the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre 1983-84 exciting season — Special 
low prices. 281-0360.
Point Brets 2-bedroom duplex, 661-7394 or 665- 
9304, $450 + utilities.
Gandhi, Jedi, Diner, Octopussy, Rocky, Exca- 
libur, Annie Hall, Conan, Trading Places, 48 
Hrs., Cuckoo’s Nest, FTashdance, Road Warrior, 
Apocalypse Now, Officer 8c A Gentleman, All 
That Jazz, etc. Original movie posters for sale. 
Thousands available. We specialize in one sheets 
(27" x 41" posters). For more information write: 
Roger’s Movie Memories, Box 19208, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15273. Be sure to include your address, tele­
phone number, and a list of posters that you are 
interested in purchasing.
Violin lessons. Highly qualified teacher and per­
former will accept students. Juilliard graduate. 
For more information, call Steve at 621-0229.
HELP WANTED. PART-TIME position avail­
able for college student to represent travel com­
pany on campus. Earn commission, free travel 
and work experience. Contact: Beachcomber 
Tours, Inc. 1325 Millersport Hgwy., Williams- 
ville, NY 14221, (716) 632-3723.
DISCOUNT SOFTWARE for IBM/PC, Apple, 
Atari, etc. BBase II $385; Lotus 1-2-3 $325; much 
more. Call for price list. Monterey Microsystems. 
456-7478.
Advisors — For mentally retarded children, ado­
lescents, and adults — Substitute “as needed” 
positions. $3.85/hour - 2 years college preferred. 
E.O.E. - Send resume to: I.C.L, 1408 Idle wood 
Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15205.
Women: Are you an Academic Bag Lady? Over 
25, in school, new career? Meet over lunch 12-1 
Thursdays starting Oct. 6. Lutheran University 
Center, 4515 Forbes. 682-6886.
Moving? Tired of your new room? Can’t fit your 
fridge in your MG? Call Second Mile Light Hai 
ing, ask for Vince 231-2766.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534. 
Diane’s Secretarial Service Resumes, academic, 
business and personal typing. Pick up and deliv­
ery available. 464-1618.
Wanted - Macro II programmer to develop net­
working software and other projects. Call x2792.
One bedroom apt. S. Oakland avail, imme­
diately. Kitchen. $160/mo. including gas, heat, 
hot water. 2 blocks from Pitt Law Library /Oak­
land & S. Bouquet 10 min. walk. Call 421-2987 or 
561-3549.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca­
demic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
Earn $500 or more each school year. Flexible 
hours. Monthly payment for placing posters on 
campus. Bonus based on results. Prizes awarded 
as well. 800-526-0883.
general
Don’t Panic! The Computer Club will hold a 
seminar to introduce students to the TOPS 
machines at CMU tonight at 8:00 in Wean Hall 
7500. All are invited.
You are invited to an Informal Bible Discussion
group. We are nondenominational in nature, 
and deal with campus-related and social issues 
based on God’s Word. We meet every Monday 
evening at 9, in Room 39, Skibo. Stop by, and feel 
free to bring a friend with you. For more informa­
tion, call 441-0819 or 361-5632, and ask for John. 
CMU Martial Art Club meets every Monday at 
8:00-9:30 p.m. and Wednesday at 7:30-9:00 p.m. 
in Thistle Hall, CMU Gymnasium. Beginners 
are welcome.
Career Services & Placement Orientation Meet 
ings: Seniors and graduate students intending u 
use the serv ices of the Career Services and Place 
ment Office this year should plan to attend oner, 
the following scheduled meetings:
Tuesday, September 27, 1983 - 11:30 a.m. Baj 
lroom, Skibo
Tuesday, September 27, 1983 - 4:00 p.m. Ba] 
lroom, Skibo
These sessions will last 40-50 minutes and genei 
ally cover the range of services of the office andar 
explanation erf forms and procedures used. Tin* 
will be available for questions and discussion.
Tau Beta Pi will hold a meeting on Monday, 0cl 
3, at 8:15 p.m. in Skibo Room 11. ALL member^ 
are urged to attend.
Interested in practicing business and eamiti 
money on campus? Then Student Corporation 
for you. Students from all majors are welcome ti 
call x3535 for information about Student Corpo 
ration or to stop by a meeting any Monday at 
p.m. in Skibo 13.
The Gin Game, a tragicomedy of two elderli 
patients in a nursing home by D.L. Cobum, wil 
open the twelfth season at the Pittsburgh Labors 
tory Theatre. Bill Royston, associate director 
the Lab, will direct the show, which runs froi 
September 30 through November 6. For ticket 
and information, call 621-2876.
Before We Put You In Charge Of The World's Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, 
We Put You Through The World’s Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training.
It takes more than 16 
months of intensive 
training to become a 
fully qualified officer in 
the Nuclear Navy. You 
begin with four months 
of leadership training.
Then as a Navy officer 
you get a full year of 
graduate-level training 
unavailable anywhere else at any price.
Navy training is based on more than 
1900 reactor-years of experience. Right 
now the Navy operates over half the 
nuclear reactors in America. And the 
Navy’s nuclear equipment is the most 
sophisticated in the world. That’s why 
your Navy training is and must be the 
most sophisticated in the world.
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, 
you have decision-making authority 
immediately. You get important manage­
ment responsibility ________________
fast. Because in the 
Navy, as your knowl­
edge grows, so does 
your responsibility.
Your training and 
experience place you 
among the country’s 
most qualified profes­
sionals. ( No surprise
NAVY OPPORTUNITY INFORMATION CENTER P.O. Box 5000. Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy.
Name.First(Pit~Pl
Address. 
Citv_____.State
Age.tCollege/ Uni versity.
tYear in College. 
?Major/Minor__
that most of the men 
who operate the 
reactors in private 
industry started in the 
Nuclear Navy.)
It takes more time 
and more effort to 
become an officer in the 
Nuclear Navy. But the 
rewards are greater, too.
The rewards can begin as early as 
your junior year in college. Qualify, and 
the Navy will pay you approximately 
$1000/month while you finish school.
After four years, with regular 
promotions and salary increases, you can 
be earning as much as $40,500. That’s on 
top of a benefits package that includes 
medical and dental care, and 30 days’ 
vacation earned every year. More 
responsibility, more money, more future. 
So, if you’re majoring in math,
________________ engineering or the
physical sciences, and 
you want to know more 
about a future in 
nuclear power, fill in 
the coupon.
Today’s Nuclear 
Navy is an opportunity 
like no other in the 
world.
W 342
I0N)
Last
.Apt.
.Zip_
?GPA.
Phone Number.(Arca CoáelBest AR MYO to Call
This is for general recruitment information You do not have to 
furnish any of the information requested Of course, the more we
L
know. the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi­tions for which you qualify
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.
