I . T i F 4 LE 
3 COP ICS/feei
n_n
n_VI VII. No. 8 .No8MtUM i8WsUsFsM _r sMwa8_V_tdP |UssWjFotaP |M88WdVCN8UN e_CMgjMo TcP chcTIc
—
Mt. Union Wins on Forward Pass _|j
Carnegie Tech lost a hard-fought game 
last Saturday to a team that relied almost 
entirely on open play, and were experts 
at that style. Forward passes and end 
runs kept the ball in Plaid territory and 
resulted directly in all of six touch-downs. 
Except in the second quarter, our team was 
forced to kick whenever in possession of 
the ball. On straight football our team 
showed better work, but the Mt. Union 
team excelled in their own department. 
To use a metaphor heard after the game, 
"they snatched the game out of the air.’'
The home team used the forward pass
46 times during the game, succeeding 25 
times in making gains varying in length 
from 4 to 40 yards. Their total gain by 
this 'means was 324 yards. In the first 
quarter, the pass succeeded 6 out of 10 
times and netted 117 yards; in the second 
period it was attempted 8 times, half of 
which were successful, and 35 yards were 
covered; the third quarter witnessed 9 
successful passes out of 13 attempted, 
the gain being 75 yards; in the final period 
our men succeeded in interfering oftener 
and nine attempts out of 15 failed, the six 
successful ones gaining 97 yards. The 
last successful one of the game was a throw 
of 20 yards to the left end, who ran in a 
clear field for 20 yards more and the last 
touch-down. Humble broke up more of 
the passes than any of the other visitors, 
but Metheny and Peterson each caught 
one not intended for them. Lose, in the 
second quarter intercepted a pass and 
carried the ball from our danger zone to 
Mt. Union territory with a 35-yard run 
in which he was aided by Clair’s interfer­
ence.
Metheny, Lose and Crawford were the 
individual stars of the game. The “big 
fellow,” as Metheny was called, carried 
the ball for the best of our gains. Craw­
ford and Humble were the best tacklers, 
stopping the speedy backs on innumerable 
occasions. Fulmer, playing center for 
the first time, filled a big hole at that posi­
tion left vacant by the absence of Taylor 
and Engstrom. His passing was good 
and he broke through the Mt. Union line 
in the style of a much heavier player. 
Paterson, while in the game, showed great 
speed, in tackling the back for losses, but 
an old injury was intensified and he was 
taken out when he could not stand alone. 
Taken all together, the Plaid team played 
an excellent game, but were beaten by a 
team superior in what seemed almost like 
a basketball contest.
The Mt. Union players were remarkable 
only for their handling of forward passes. 
Most of the credit should be given to the
quarterback, Blythe, for the skill with 
which he placed the throws. Gauchat 
also is to be praised for the way in which 
he received the ball; some of his catches 
seemed almost uncanny, anything within 
his reach sticking to his fingers. Lovell. 
Wilson and Carson all received in skillful 
manner. Beck distinguished himself by 
intercepting two of our forward passes, 
showing that he, also, is an adept at hand­
ling the ball.
First Quarter—
Humble started the game by kicking 
off to Carson, who returned 10 yards to 
Mt. Union’s 30-yard line. Wilson gained
2 yards through tackle, then Carson was 
downed for a loss of 8 yards. Blythe 
punted to Stonerod, the little quarterback 
being stopped on our 25 yard line. Meth­
eny’s punt went out of bounds on Mt. 
Union’s 40 mark. Lovell gained 5 yards 
and Van Tilberg made it first down with a 
run of 8 yards. Clair tackled Blythe for 
no gain, then Blythe started the first of 
the series of forward passes. Gauchat 
received this for a gain of 15 yards. A 
second pass failed and Blythe was thrown 
for a loss of 5 yards. Blythe made a for­
ward pass to Wilson, gaining more than 
30 yards and placing the ball 1 yard from 
our goal. Lovell was held for no gain, 
but on a second try made a touch down. 
Blythe punted out to Gauchat on the 15 
mark and then kicked the goal. Score: 
Mt. Union 7. Tech 0..
Humble again kicked off, this time to 
Lovell on his 25 mark, but the latter came 
back 13 yards. Van Tilberg went around 
end for 12 yards, but Guachat was tackled 
by Humble for no gain. A forward pass, 
Blythe to Gauchat added 15 yards, then 
Lovell was held for no gain. Wilson made
3 yards through tackle, Carson , 2 yards 
through center, and Lovell 3 more through 
tackle and 5 around left end. Mt. Union 
was penalized 15 yards for holding, but 
regained the distance on a forward pass, 
Blythe to Gauchat, scored the second 
touch down. Blythe punted out to Wilson 
on the 18 line, then the former kicked goal. 
Score: 14-0.
Lose was substituted for Robinson. 
Humble’s kick-off went to the 20 yard 
mark, but Lovell returned the ball 40 
yards to our 40 yard line before -downed. 
Lovell and Wilson each made 1 yard 
through the line, then Lovell made it first 
down around end. A forward pass, Blythe 
to Carson, placed the ball on Tech’s 17 
yard line, then Blythe reduced the dis­
tance to 8 yards by an end run. Lovell
Continued on page 4
WEDNESDAY MORNING LECTURE
The attendance at the Lecture last week 
was somewhat larger, due possibly to the 
agitation and indignation of those inter­
ested who see the value of these lectures 
and appreciate their worth.
Dr. Hamerschlag gave a few preliminary 
remarks about the progress of the building 
construction about the schools before in­
troducing the speaker of the day, Council­
man McArdle, of this city, for six years 
President of the Amalgamated Association 
of Iron, Steel and Tin Workers of the 
Pittsburgh District.
Mr. McArdle’s main point was that the 
Trades Unions do not want strikes, these 
being as much to their disadvantage as to 
the employer. His office in the Union for 
such a long period made him exceptionally 
qualified to tell how they are managed.
The scheme which the Iron and Steel 
Workers have tried and found successful 
is the sliding scale with a minimum wage, 
below which they shall not go even in hard 
times. When sales of the product rise 
above a certain amount as given by the 
sworn statement of the employers, the 
wages of the wcrkers shall be increased a 
certain per cent. The selling price is de­
termined every two months, and an agree­
ment about the minimum wage entered 
into every year.
This was Mr. McArdle’s second visit to 
the schools in the last few years to speak 
on the same general line and his talks are 
always interesting and instructive.
DIRECTOR ADDRESSES STUDENTS 
OF APPLIED INDUSTRIES
Director Hamerschlag addressed the 
day students of the School of Applied 
Industries on last Monday morning. The 
address was in the nature of a heart-to- 
heart talk and was one of the rare occa­
sions when the Director can meet the stu­
dent of the individual school and further 
his idea of “cultivating the art of making 
friends.”
The major emphasis of his address was 
on the “The Need for Sportsmanship.” 
He showed how this can be expressed in 
athletic contests, both as to the players and 
the rooters. He took the opportunity to 
show what real rivalry between education­
al institutions means—not in hissing, cat­
calls and the like, but in playing fair, both 
in the game and on the side lines. He 
expressed himself as strongly in favor of the 
students doing all in their power to further 
a spirit of a better fellowship with the 
students of the Univeristy of Pittsburgh.
In a very humorous manner he went 
on to show how “certain phrases in English 
are best left unsaid,” especially in student 
publications. His illustration, concerned 
with “Horticulture and Poultry Culture” 
was apt indeed and will not soon be for­
gotten.
He then spoke on “ways of students 
getting along” with special reference to 
the Student Senate. He emphasized the 
following points: (1) The representation 
to the Student Senate ought not to be the 
most popular men, rather the most con­
servative. (2) Make the burden of the 
representatives to the body as light as 
possible by cooperation, and (3) try to 
grade the penalties to the enormity of the 
crime.
He concluded by urging a spirit of'hos- 
pitality particularly to visiting athletic 
teams. He spoke in high terms of Haver- 
ford whose football team comes here Sat­
urday and from what was said, it is cer­
tain that Haverfoid will experience some 
“real Carnegie hospitality.” After the 
address, three long and hearty rahs was 
given for the Director by cheer leader 
Hamilton erf the upper class.
INTERSCHOOL TENNIS TOURNA­
MENT
The results of the Interschool Tourna­
ment to date are as follows:“
First Round 
Knight vs. Blum-—defaulted.
Mason from Cooper'—by default.
Fagan from Komblum—6-0; 2-6; 6-0. 
Abell vs. Crawford—defaulted.
Savage frcm Miller—6-0; 6-1.
Tucker from Bismark—by default. 
Sossong from Simpson—6-4; 8-6. 
Schuckman from Sweeney—by default. 
McCaughey vs. R. S.Wilson—defaulted. 
Ginsberg from Blumenthal—by default, 
J.V.Wilson from Pafenbach—6-1; 6-3. 
Bihlman from Clements—6-4; 3-6; 6-3. 
Gower from Pickering—7-5; 6-0. 
Douthett fr* m Sawders—6-1; 6-1. 
English from Frey—by default.
Disque from McFarlin—0-6; 6-3; 6-2. 
Second Round 
Mason from Knight and Blum—by default.
Fagan from Abell and Crawford—by de­
fault.
Savage from Tucker—by default. 
Sossong from Schuckman—6-1; 6-4. 
Ginsberg from McCaughey and R. S. 
Wilson—by default.
Bihlman from J. V. Wilson—6-4; 2-6; 
7-5.
Douthett from Gower—6-1; 6-1. 
English from Disque—by default. 
Semi finals.
Fagan from Mason—6-2; 6-3.
Savage from Sossong—6-4; 6-4. 
Bihlman from Ginsberg—6-1; 7-5. 
Douthett from English—6-1; 6-2. 
Finals
Savage from Fagan—6-3; 6-2.
Douthett from Bihlman—6-1; 6-2. 
The match between Douthett and Sav­
age will be played off at an early date this 
week.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
THE TARTAN
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Yeariy $1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of 
burgh as second class matter.
Pitts-
PITTSBURGH, PA., NOV. 21,1912.
BOARD OF EDITORS.
Donald D. Mitchell, ’13.Editor-in-Chief 
G. Guy Kelcey, ’14.. Business Editor
C. B. Kline, ’13..........Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, ’09..Alumni Editor 
Albert E. Ball, ’13.... Science Editor
A. H. Good, ’14............Design Editor
Guy Elliott, ’13.... Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, 14..................
........................M. M. C. S. Editor
W. H. Searight, ’15. Exchange Editor
Charles E. Gilson, ’14....................
..................Assistant News Editor
VV. I. Wilson, ’16.............................
Assistant to the Athletic Editor
MORE ABOUT SPIRIT
We have elsewhere in these columns 
urged that all students make a special ef­
fort to be present at the game to be play­
ed Saturday . We also want to urge that 
the spirit shown by the men in the stands 
be that of the majority, that of the real 
typical Carnegie man, and not that of the 
minority or few who have called forth com­
ment from time to time in these columns.
There is a distinction to be drawn be­
tween what should be known as college 
spirit and what is so often taken by the 
general public as a manifestation of the 
same. Candor compels us to admit that 
we have seen more of the latter brand, the 
cheap imitation, at the football games this 
season than we like. We have remark­
ed upon it on several occasions and have 
taken pains to make it clear that we do not 
for a minute believe that these cheap few 
are representative, and have urged at the 
same time that those few be made to feel 
the disapproval of the majority. This 
continued urging upon the part of The 
Tartan has been less effective than was 
hoped, and some other and more drastic 
means should be adopted to remedy the 
condition. Just why a few should be al­
lowed to give an outsider a wrong impres­
sion of the nature of the spirit of our stu­
dent body is quite beyond our compre­
hension, and yet that is exactly what 
happened in one particular instance at 
the last home game. Because of the ac­
tions of a few,a spectator, himself a college 
man, obtained a very poor impression of 
our college spirit and our sense of rival­
ry. It is as unjust to him as to the student 
body as a whole to give him that impres­
sion. This is just one example, but it is 
safe to say that this injustice will continue 
to be done to the majority of the student 
body by the few unless definite steps be 
taken to put a stop to it.
There is also to be considered at the 
same time the small group which apparent­
ly places class or section spirit above Car­
negie spirit, for they "sit together and act 
together according to their own desires 
and inclinations rather than those of the 
majority, led by the cheer leaders. Both 
of these types are, to The Tartan’s mind, 
equally bad and they should be properly 
squelched. The Tartan can and will con­
tinue to publish articles pointing out the 
facts and calling attention to the condi­
tions. More than that it is hard to see 
what it can accomplish, since this is a 
case for united action upon the part of the 
leaders in the various schools and for 
united action alone. The quicker the 
men who lead realize this fact and are 
able to make all, not a part, but all, the 
students realize what is really fitting and 
proper, the better it will be for Carnegie 
Tech. We have a great institution of 
which we are justly proud. We should 
see to it that the spirit of all of our stu­
dents is such as to be in keeping with our 
Alma Mater in order that we may be justly 
proud of it also.
TO THE ALUMNI
Last week it was the good fortune of 
The Tartan to meet one of the members of 
the Charter Class. He had just been sent 
up from Haiti for six weeks to recuperate 
from an attack of the fever contracted 
while on railroad construction work on the 
island. He very willingly promised to 
write an article for publication, telling 
of some of his experiences while in the 
tropics and to furnish some pictures suit­
able for cuts. The Tartan congratulates 
itself that it has obtained this article and 
believes that it will interest not only the 
graduate—but the student readers.
Such articles are always interesting and 
The Tartan would like to see many more 
such appearing. It therefore makes a 
general appeal to all graduates to write - 
down anything of interest and send it 
along. It is not necessary that it be of 
some foreign scene. It may be of some 
new industrial condition, or what not, 
and still possess the qualities necessary 
to make it generally interesting. The 
Tartan has had such articles from time to 
time in the past and hopes to have them 
more frequently in the future. While it 
is of course impossible for The Tartan to 
write personally to each graduate and 
solicit such articles, it will undertake to 
thank personally each man sending in any 
material. It feels, moreover, that the 
man taking the time to write such an ar­
ticle would feel repaid by the increase in 
the closeness of his association with his 
Alma Mater and by the knowledge that he 
has interested and instructed many read­
ers, some of whom will be called upon 
within a very short period of time to deal 
perhaps with similar condi tions. There­
fore, let it again be urged that you, Mr. 
Graduate, take a little time off and write 
a short article, mailing it to the “Alumni 
Editor of The Tartan.” It will not be 
time wasted and you will feel well repaid 
for vour effort.
AN APPRECIATION
The Tartan knew, in a somewhat vague 
and indefinite way, that the gentlemen who 
so kindly spoke to the Science students on 
Wednesdays were put to considerable
effort and sacrifice to be present. It did 
not, however, fully realize the cost and 
extent of these sacrifices until one day last 
week when certain information came into 
its hands. Did you know, for example^ 
that two of the last three speakers gave 
up their lunch hour, or better, did 
without lunch; in order to speak to you? 
The Tartan did not and it feels its appre­
ciation, which has always been deep, has 
not been deep enough. It feel? that its 
attention has not been close enough and 
that to these gentlemen it owes something 
a little better than that which it has been 
giving. It is not that The Tartan has 
failed to appreciate or given attention, 
for it has done both. But the realization 
of the true condition of affairs has caused 
it to feel more deeply than ever that this 
course is one of the most valuable give*! 
in the curriculum, and that to the men 
giving it is due all the honor and respect 
it is possible to show.
THE HAVERFORD GAME
Next Saturday, our football team plays 
Haverford College at home. This is a 
Quaker school in the East, and it has 
a famous reputation for hospitality. Now 
it should be the desire of every Tech man 
to show this team the same hospitality 
which they would offer us if our team was 
playing at their college. One of the 
best ways to do so will be for every stu­
dent to come out to the game, to recognize 
and applaud all good work done by the 
Haverford team, and never to allow any 
animosity to appear in the grandstand.
Aside from that, every loyal true-beart- 
ed Carnegie man should be present and 
give our team the support which they so 
truly deserve. Our team has met reverse 
this year; oftentimes when prospects seem­
ed brightest for victory, some unfortunate 
chance spoiled it all. Yet, throughout, 
our eleven has pluckily kept at it, and 
while it is true they may have been beaten, 
they have nevertheless shown that they 
were true sportsmen and good losers. 
Any team can play honorably when it is 
winning, but a losing team that keeps up 
its good spirit and conceals successfully 
any hard feeling, is one which should be 
the .pride of every student.
So come out on the 23rd, and show the 
team that you care more for honest ath­
letics than for winning mere games; and 
that you appreciate the hard work they 
have done on the field this year, and are 
proud of them.
IT IS COMING
We really hate to do it and yet we feel 
we must. As special protector for the 
poor, downtrodden student our duty is 
clearly outlined. It seems unkind—we 
know that—and it may get us into trouble 
for such is the fate of a Fearless Leader, 
but the Muddy Trail must be attended to 
and at once. Therefore, with due alarm, 
anxiety, awe, consternation, misgiving, sol­
icitude, terror, and trepidation, we serve 
notice that unless a third plank be put in 
The Tartan’s board walk on or before 
December 15th, a special Muddy Trail 
Issue will be rushed from the presses on 
December 25th. Save us the pain of work­
ing overtime and the expense of buying 
asbestos paper by putting in the third 
plank at once.'
DIRECTORY.
ATHLETICS.
Football—F. S. Crawford, Japt. ,. 
Wm. Finkel, Mgr.
2108 Carson St.
Baseball— J. R. Gearhart, Capt.,
E. H. Grotefend, Mgr.,
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball—
R W. P. Colvin, Capt.
W. J. Corbett, Mgr.,
5141 Woodlawn A*ve.
Track— C. M. Crawford, Capt.,
Thor Engstrom, Mgr.,
237 N. Dithridge St Tennis Association—
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Mgr.
5141 Woodlawn Ave. 
SENIOR~CLASSES.
Science— C. M. Crawford,
Industries—A. E. Hamilton,
Design— j. jI Hays, Jr.
M. M. C. S.—
Tri Senior, Margaret Eggleston, 
Senior, Laura Green, 
SOCIETIES.
Musical Clubs—
R. M. Crawford, Pres.
L. E. Griswold, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
White Friars—H. C. Franks, Pres. 
Walter Jones, Jr., Mgr.,
309 Oakland Ave.
Seatinachie—F. S. Crawford, Pres., 
Carnegie Band- Clete L. Boyle, Mgr..
9 Mawhinney Street.
T. A. C.—M. G. Kingsley, Pres., >
T. M. C.—Guy Elliott, .Mgr. 11
T. D. C.— Eleanor Tener, Pres.
Civil Engineering Society—O. N. Hetle, Pres.----------------------------------------------:--—---T!--*Fulcrum Club—
Thos. O. Carlisle, Pres.
Mho Club— R. Freeland, PresT 
Crucible Club—H. G. Texter, Pres.. 
Mechanical Club—-J. E. Haines, Pres 
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES. 
Beta Theta Epsilon—
5437 Ayleboro Ave.
Schenley 2508.
Sigma Rho—4619 Forbes St.
Schenley 9271-J.
Sigma Tau— 5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9373-J.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi—
237 Dithridge St.,
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club—
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
___________Schenley 9020.___________
Xi Sigma Upsilon—
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon—
4513 Forbes St.
9052-J Schenley-__________
Alumni Ass’n. of Applied Science and 
Design—
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room 204 A. & J. Bldg., 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
StudentT Senates—
Design—A. H. Good, Pres. 
Industries—Guy Elliott, Pres.
Athletic Board of Control—
L. C. Diilenback, Pres.
P. K. McGill, Secretary 
305 Oakland Avenue.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
COME OUT TO THE GAME !
Next Saturday will see the close of the 
football season for Carnegie Tech, Hav- 
erford College being the attraction. This 
means the biggest bunch of the most loyal 
rooters will be in the stands to see our 
team win from the Easterners. All re­
cords for attendance will be broken if 
you come and bring one class-mate with 
you. We are talking now to each and 
everyone of the Plebes, Sophs, Juniors 
and Seniors in the schools, and especially 
to the Plebes. The last outnumber the 
upper classmen, and if every man comes 
out there will be a crowd that will more 
than fill the stands. The night men have 
been increasing in numbers at every game, 
and they are out to break the percentage 
record at this contest
As a big guarantee must be paid to the 
visitors, the management is forced to 
charge a nominal admission to the game 
for students. Upon presentation of stu­
dent tickets and $.25 each undergraduate 
can obtain one ticket to the game. The 
tickets will be on sale at Room 2, Industries 
Building, on Thursday and Friday of this 
week from 4:30 to 5:15 and from 7:15 to 
8:00 o’clock. The regular price will be 
$.75 to outsiders, but the game is sure to 
be worth more than that to see.
And one more word about the rooting: 
Watch the cheerleaders and cut out all 
cat-calls and “mucker” spirit. We have 
been credited with an almost total lack of 
such manifestations as are seen at most 
colleges. Cut out all of the “rough stuff” 
Saturday and help the team to win. Last 
chance to show your appreciation of the 
team. Come out.
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
6227 Penn Avenue 
622*2 Frankstown Avenue
STOEBENER
Man Witli Quality Shoes
East End
William H. Dosey, Head of the Foundry 
Department, School of Applied Industries, 
met with a painful accident Saturday 
morning of last week having one of his 
fingers crushed by a heavy weight.
What is somewhat facetiously termed 
“sport” in America is a rather vicious 
brand of business, sicklied o’er with a pale 
cast of play.
Being essentially business it has ac­
quired most of the amiable peculiarities 
of that form of sport. If it is necessary, 
in order to grasp the whisking skirts of 
success ( and that is our sole ambition) 
to step on the prostrate features of oppo­
sition with spiked shoes, so much the 
worse for the beauty and well being of our 
antagonists. Neither are we punctilious 
about the necessity for this gentle exercise 
we step heavily anyhow on general prin­
ciples, if we can.
Business has been under suspicion since 
the world began, and mythology bluntly 
assigned to it as divinity the god of thieves 
and liars.
Its illegitimate brother in these modem 
days dispenses with a deity and invokes 
the gate receipts. The elaborate code of 
artificial morals with which it has seemed 
necessary to hobble intercollegiate ath­
letics would be insulting to any sane and 
wholesome pursuit of real recreation.
The pale moonlight of investigation in 
which college faculties are want to poke 
about their athletic affairs gives those 
students and alumni addicted to devious 
methods abundant opportunity to slink 
about in the shadows.
Indeed with the best of intention and 
effort on the faculties’ part, the alumni 
of any institution imbued with the spirit 
of not-even-near ethics that they have 
absorbed from the haunts of business, 
and the students corrupted by their ex­
ample and precept, can leave their soiled 
finger prints on athletics.
The authorities may be morally certain 
that fraternities and other organizations 
have composed the siren ditties that draw 
the skillful athlete to academic halls, but 
it is another thing to prove it*
The fallacy that conspicuous success in 
athletics attracts students and swells en­
rollment, which seems to be the chief am­
bition of collegiate administrators, goes 
far to develop myopia in the investiga­
tions of athletic eccentricities.
If any increase can be attributed to this 
dubious influence, it consists largely of 
those youths whose thirst for knowledge is
easily quenched and whose deadly ex­
ploits in the classroom make pessimists 
of instructors. Their academic sign is 
minus and while they may adorn catalogs 
they diminish the sum total of academic 
result.
Every college official, we think, who is 
honestly committed to wholesome, clean, 
amateur college athletics, and who has 
become sophisticated if not profane by 
many vain efforts to expurgate them, will 
more or less sadly assert that the thing is 
incorrigible as it stands. Also that if the 
insane desire to win at no matter what 
anatomical or ethical cost, could be elimi­
nated or even diluted, something might be 
done to make it more twentieth century 
human and less prehistorically anthropoid.
No amount of solemn and windy legis­
lation will improve the aggressive odor of 
American college athletics so long as it is 
a capital crime to lose. If that millenial 
time ever arrives when athletic rivals 
cease to consider assassination legitimate 
pleasantry in their contests, and are willing 
to play for sports’sake, elaborate rules 
and the presence of the entire police force 
will be unnecessary.
We have too many complicated laws 
for one thing. Human nature, is so 
constituted, especially academic human 
nature, that the very existence of a 
rule excites a mad desire to tunnel 
under it. It is certainly within the 
power of every college faculty to 
compel its students to produce a reas­
onable dividend of knowledge on the in­
vestment of. honest effort in the class room 
independent of the festivities of the ath­
letic arena. This is fondly conceived to 
be the chief purpose of institutions of 
learning, so called. Two hundred pounds 
of rampant cellular tissue, exclusive of 
brains, often negligible, a forty two inch 
chest and number eleven feet need not 
necessarily qualify as passing marks.
It is quite possible undoubtedly to in­
sure that every student representing ath- 
lethic lly an institution of learning has 
reall} serious intentions with respect to 
an education and is not merely carrying 
. on a giddy flirtation with it.
Outside of this crucial point, it seems to 
us, the other demands of athletic ethics are 
comparatively trivial. Of course such a
ALWAYS BUYZATEK CHOCOLATEMORE ALMONDSSWEETER MILKSMOOTHER CHOCOLATE
at the “beanery” and everywhere
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland
disposition of the matter would assume, 
primarily, the unequivocal honesty of Fac­
ulties in athletic affairs. If that assump­
tion is too violent we had best put civili­
zation in the hands of a receiver and 
take our places at the trough.
Let us reduce the code then to this.
First. Every student who represents 
an institution of learning athletically, 
shall maintain a scholastic standing that 
insures his normal advancement.
Second. No student shall continue such 
representation more than four years.
This is to prevent ex-officio professors 
of football from becoming eligible to the 
Carnegie pension and to minimize the fic­
ticious popularity of ball bearing graduate 
courses that synchronize with the athletic 
seasons.
Third. No student who migrates from 
one institution to another shall participate 
in intercollegiate contests for one scholas­
tic year succeeding the migration. This 
is to neutralize the evangelical ardor of 
alumni, who have quite forgotten that 
their alma mater consisted of anything 
but the athletic field.
These stipulations are simple to the 
verge of homeliness and they are definite.
No expert microscftpist nor embryonic 
corporation lawyer is needed in consulta­
tion.
All this tommy rot about students hav­
ing received a tin medal for carrying water 
at a baseball game in Podunk may be 
relegated to the debating societies and sum­
mer baseball would cease from troubling 
that the weary athletic legislator might 
rest. If a bona fide student can lay up to 
himself treasure in the good old summer 
time against his next year’s expenses, by 
thè exercise of his talents on the diamond, 
why should that infect him any more than 
the acting as chauffeur to a lathe or drill 
press or the circulation of the death-deal­
ing concoctions of some restaurant?
After you have removed the padding, 
the oratorical cosmetics and other ad­
ventitious aids to beauty, the real question 
is this, is it not?—does the participant in 
athletics really mean to get an education?
We need fewer laws, but what we need 
more than anything else is a clean, sports­
manlike, human love of sport for sports’ 
sake.
Savings & Trust Co.
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200.000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
YOU’RE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops.
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
Fred’s
Where all the Tech boys eat
Atwood and Forbes
Fred S. Suddaby
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street 
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
SAILOR 
Tailor
Peoples Bank Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
“Patronize our Advertisers.”

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
MT. UNION WINS ON FORWARD 
PASS
Continued from page 1.
was stopped 1 yard from the goal, but 
Blythe failed to gain. Lovell was shoved 
over for the third touch down, and Blythe 
kicked goal. Score: 21—0.
Lovell kicked off over the goal line for a 
touch-back. When the ball was put into 
play on our 20 mark, Lose failed to gain. 
Metheny made 3 yards, then Clair punted 
to Blythe who was downed on Tech’s 49 
yard line. Lovell hit a stonewall, and 
three successive forward passes failed, the 
third going out of bounds on our 10 yard 
line. Clair was sent back to punt but 
carried the ball for a two yard gain in­
stead, the whistle putting an end to the 
quarter as he was downed. Score > Mt. 
Union 21. Carnegie 0.
Second Quarter—
Metheny hit a hole through center for a 
5 yard gain. Stonerod gained 1 yard, then 
Clair punted. Blythe received the ball 
on his 40 yard line, and came back 25 
units to our 35 line. A forward pass failed 
and Alt. Union was penalized 15 yards for 
holding. Paterson tackled Carson for a 
5 yard lose, but was hurt in doing so. A 
forward pass touched the ground, then 
De Muth replaced Paterson. Blythe 
punted to Stonerod on our 35 yard line. 
Lose gained 2 yards and Humble 3. Meth­
eny punted out of bounds,on Mt. Union’s 
42 mark. Van Tilberg gained 5 yards and 
Wilson 10 on end runs. The Dutchman 
made a gain of 2 yards more, to which 
Lovell added 5. Wilson lost a yard, and 
the reliable forward pass was worked. This 
one, Blythe to Gauchat, gained 15 yards, 
but Blythe was thrown for a loss of 5 yards 
in the next scrimmage. Clair recovered a 
fumble on Carnegie’s 30 yard line. The 
first penalty for our team was 15 yards for 
holding. Clair punted to Blythe who was 
downed after a 5 yard return on the center 
line. Lovell made 5 yards around end, 
but was held at tackle for no gain. A 
forward pass failed, but a second was re­
ceived by Carson for 5 yards. Wilson re­
ceived the third for a 11 yard gain, and 
Carson the fourth for 4 yards. The fifth 
successive forward pass was intercepted 
by Lose. This youngster sent a shiver 
through the grandstand by running the 
ball back 35 yards to Mt. Union’s 35 yard 
line. Metheny could not gain through the 
line, but Stonerod made 3 yards. Lose 
gained 2 yards, but an unsuccessful for­
ward pass gave the ball to Mt. Union on 
their 30 yard line. Wilson failed \o gain. 
Van Tilberg made a cross field end run that 
netted 7 yards. Lovell was held without 
gaining, and Blythe punted. Humble re­
ceived the ball and was downed on his 37 
mark. Metheny gained 9 yards, and Lose 
made it first down. Humble covered 5 
yards and Metheny 4, then Lose made first 
down with a 2 yard gain. Humble could 
not gain through the line, but a forward 
pass, Metheny to Humble gained 9 yards. 
The first half ended with the ball 33 yards 
from Mt. Union’s goal. Score for the 
quarter: Mt. Union—0. Carnegie—0.
Third Quarter—
Lovell kicked off to Stonerod, the latter 
being downed on Tech’s 30 mark after a 
5 yard return. Lose gained 2 yards, but 
Humble could not advance the ball. Clair 
punted to Gauchat, who was stopped on 
our 45 line. Van Tilberg gained 8 yards, 
but Blythe was downed by DeMuth for a 
5 yard loss. Two forward passes failed
and the ball went to Carnegie 42 yards 
from our goal. Metheny fumbled but 
Fulmer recovered the pig-skin. Stonerod 
lost 2 yards, then Metheny started a for­
ward pass. Lovell intercepted the same 
and returned 5 yards to Tech’s 45 line. 
Lovell punted to Stonerod on our 25 yard 
line. Humble could not gain, so Clair 
kicked to Blythe on Mt. Union’s 40 yard 
line, but the Alliance quarter back re­
turned 15 yards, going out of bounds on 
Tech’s 35 line. Carson received a forward 
pass from Blythe for 10 yards. Another 
was blocked and caught by Peterson. 
Metheny failed to gairt at center, Lose 
made 2 yards, Stonerod was held for no 
gain, thgn Metheny kicked. Carson, who 
received the ball, returned 5 yards to our 
40 yard line, and Blythe kicked over the 
goal line.
Starting from the 20 yard line, Metheny 
gained 3 yards. Clair’s punt was blocked, 
but he fell on the ball 8 yards from our 
goal. He again .punted, this time to 
Blythe on our 35 yard line. A forward pass 
Blythe to Gauchat, gained 6 yards, one to 
Carson netted 5 yards, and a third to 
Gauchat made 4 yards. Van Tilberg went 
through the line for 10 yards, which placed 
the ball 10 yards from our goal. Stauffer, 
on a tackle back play, cut this distance in 
half. Lovell was held for no gain, but 
Gauchat caught a forward pass from 
Blythe while in the act of falling behind 
the goal line, thereby scoring the fourth 
touchdown. Blythe kicked goal. Score: 
28—0.
Humble kicked off to Gauchat who car­
ried the ball back 15 yards only to drop it. 
Metheny recovered the oval in the middle 
of the field. Lose was thrown for an 8 
yard loss. Humble gained 3 yards, but 
lost 2 of these on the next play. Clair 
punted to Lovell, who fumbled, Stonerod 
recovering the ball. Humble was tackled 
for a 2 yard loss on the center line. For 
shoving Carnegie drew a penalty of 15 
yards. Clair punted to Blythe on Mt. 
Union’s 45 yard line, and Lovell kicked 
back to Stonerod on our 20 mark- Hum­
ble entered the punting contest, sending 
the ball to Blythe, who was downed on 
Tech’s 40 yard line. Mt. Union was pen­
alized 5 yards for off side. Another series 
of forward passes was precipitated, with 
an accompanying march toward our 
goal. Gauchat from Blythe made 10 
yards, Blythe to Qauchat 20 yards to the
15 mark, Blythe to the ground no gain, 
Blythe to Carson 3 yards, and Blythe to 
Carson 12 yards and the fifth touch down. 
Blythe kicked goal. Score: 35—0.
The third period ended with the kicking 
of the goal. Score for the quarter. Mt. 
Union—14. Carnegie—0.
Fourth Quarter—
Thompson was substituted for Van Til­
berg on Mt. Union. Humble kicked off 
to Blythe on Mt. Union’s 30 line. Thomp­
son gained 3 yards, and Gauchat 5. A 
forward pass failed, then Blythe punted 
to Stonerod on Tech’s 43 mark. Metheny 
gained 1 yard. Beck caught a forward 
pass from Metheny on Mt. Union’s 45 
yard line. A forward pass, Blythe to 
Wilson, gained 15 yards, but a second 
failed. Blythe lost 3 yards, then threw a 
forward pass to Lovell, gaining 15 units. 
Wil: o i gained 10 yards around end, Lovell 
added 3, and Wilson 2 more. Peterson 
got Blythe for a 10 yard loss, and the 
failure of a forward pass gave the ball to 
Carnegie 16 yards from our goal. A 
triple pass failed to gain, and Stonerod
The popular “Belmont” notch Collar 
made in self striped Madras. 2 for 25cARR-OWCOLLARS
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Makers
annexed only 1 yard, forcing Metheny to 
kick. Lovell was downed with the ball 
on our 40 yard line. A forward pass failed 
and Tech was penalized 5 yards for offside. 
A forward pass, Blythe to Carson, gained
7 yards, and Lovell added 8 around end, 
putting the ball on our 20 yard line. 
Thompson made 1 yard and a forward 
pass failed. Metheny caught a forward 
pass on his 25 mark. Metheny gained 3 
yards but Humble lost as much. On a 
second try Humble was thrown back 10 
yards. Metheny punted to Blythe who 
ran out of bounds on the mid-field line. 
Thompson gained 2 yards and a forward 
pass failed, through Humble’s interfer­
ence. Lovell on two successive bucks 
made the eight yards necessary for first 
down, but Mt. Union was penalized 15 
yards for holding on the next scrimmage. 
A forward pass, Blythe to Carson, gained
8 yards, and Humble spoiled another. 
A third, Blythe to Wilson, netted 12 
yards. Wilson could not advance the 
ball and the failure of a forward pass gave 
the ball to Carnegie 19 yards from the 
goal. Metheny gained 3 yards, then 
Tech fumbled, Gauchat recovering Wil­
son went around end for 8 yards, and 
Lovell made 3 more. Wilson travelled 5 
units, then Mt. Union fumbled, Fulmer 
being the hero by recovernig on our 10 
yard line. Clair punted to Blythe on 
Tech’s 40 line. From there Blythe started 
a forward pass which Gauchat received 
on the 20 mark and carried over the line 
for the sixth touch down. Blythe kicked 
goal. Score: 42—0.
Lovell kicked off to Fulmer who return­
ed to Tech’s 45 yard line. Metheny start­
ed a forward pass, that Beck caught on the 
mid-field line as the whistle ended the 
game. Score for quarter: Mt. Union—7 
Carnegie Tech—0.
The line up:—
Carnegie Tech—0 Mt. Union—42
Paterson...............L. E...................Gauchat
Crawford, Capt..L. T..........................Beck
Clair......................L. G......................Thorpe
Fulmer...................C........................Pritchard
McCaughey..........R. G.......................Bletzer
Welch....................R. T......................Stauffer
Peterson................R. E........................Carson
Stonerod................Q............................Blythe
Robinson..............L. H......................Wilson
Humble.................R. H................VanTilberg
Metheny................F.............................Lovell
Substitutions: Carnegie—DeMuth for 
Paterson, Lose for Robinson; Mt. Union— 
Thompson for Van Tilberg.
Touch downs Lovell 2, Gauchat 3, 
Carson. Goals from touchdowns: Blythe 
6.
Referee: Houghton, Oberlin. Umpire
F. T. Jones, Reserve. Head Linesman: 
Morris, Reserve. Time of periods: 12H
minutes.
Billiard Tables, Office Desks, Butcher Outfits,Store Fixtures
S. DELP’S SONS
2219 5th Avenue Cor. 4th & Liberty
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburgh’s Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO.
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
Enterprise Pressing CompanyCleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’ Children’s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office: 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
BUTTER, EGGS, COFFEE, TEAS,POULTRY, ETC. 
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. We Deliver
Bell phone 1587 Court P.& A. phone 3112
WHITTINGTON & CO.
6001-2-3 Jenkins 
Arcade 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
For Hire
Full Dress Suits, Frock 
Coats, Tuxedos, Silk Hats, 
White Vests, Striped 
Trousers, Opera Hats, 
Black Suits for Funerals.
NewPlace, New Suits 
New Styles
Best service west
of New York
BRANCHES: 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Cleveland, Ohio
lMso_UsP -UwaI
McDOUGALL’S
THANKSGIVING DANCES
Thursday Evening, Nov. 28th. Shady and Penn Avenues.Wood St. and Fifth Ave.
Classes and Private Lessons ily 
Young Men
are cordially invited to join the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church Chorus Choir. See 
MR. MAYHEW 
at the church, cor. 5th Ave. and Bellefield Street Saturday evenings at 7:30.
Wunderlich Co.
Hatters and Men’s Furnishers
3723 Torbes Si. Cor. Oakland Ave. 
—Nearest Tech—
THE SECOND YEAR NIGHT 
DRAUGHTSMEN’S CLASS OF TECH
Requests the presence of yourself and 
company at their first Informal Reception 
to be held at Jacque’s Dancing Academy, 
Craig and Forbes, Wednesday, November 
twenty-seventh, .nineteen-twelve. Eight- 
thirty t) One. Bookmeyer Orchestra. 
Assessment $1.50. Present Invitation. 
Tickets may be obtained from any member 
of B-l Section.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
ALUMNAE MEETING OF M. M. C. S.
The first Alumnae meeting of the year 
was held on last Saturday afternoon. The 
girls were delighted at having Dr. and 
Mrs. Hamerschlag, Dr. Brashear, Miss 
Higgins, Miss Lyons, and Mrs. Sill present.
Dr. Brashear talked to the girls inform­
ally, pointing out the many beautiful 
things that are always around us, but not 
always appreciated.
The Director’s address, “Changing 
Methods in Woman’s Education,” was 
listened to with keen interest. The edu­
cation of women has, in the past, been so 
mistakenly identified with that of men. 
The aim has been, therefore, to establish 
a system of education for women; not 
co-education by any means. This school 
was founded with the definite purpose of 
educating women for her own position 
and work. The Director gave a clear, 
concise explanation of the School’s history 
and development. The School as now 
organized, has three lines of study, the 
academic, the scientific, and the technical. 
The three lines leading to the culminating 
point of a well rounded education that 
shall bring to the School’s graduates an 
equipment for bread-earning, an intelligent 
sympathy and understanding for the beau­
ties and riches of the world, and a serene 
womanhood.
Mary Craighead was hostess at the Tea 
held afterwards in the Faculty Parlors. 
Acting as her aides were Josephine Mande- 
ville, Elizabeth Dawrie, Marion Burns, 
and Mary Hartman
There was a large crowd of girls, well 
representing all the classes. Everyone 
expressed the pleasure felt at seeing friends, 
girls who had formerly shared the school 
life, members of committees held little 
discussions, “dates” and meetings were 
arranged for, in short, we all were “glad 
that we came.”
HEARD IN M. M. C. S. ASSEMBLIES
Begin—1, 2, 3, 4, 5—is five here?— 
hurry up, girls! 6, 7, 8—you’re going too 
slowly—9,10—here another girl who has 
been asleep chimes in, “Oh, I’m here, 
Number 5.” and so it goes on until the 
whole two hundred and thirty-eight have 
been called.
However, we also hear things worth 
while in our assemblies. In one of our 
assemblies Miss Lyon gave a very inter­
esting talk on Humor. She said that 
Humor, next to Cbmmon Sense, was one 
of the greatest things which a person 
could possess. She made a distinction 
between Humor and Wit by saying that 
Humor always cheers while Wit often 
hurts. We fear a witty person but we 
love a humorous person. A saving sense 
of Humor is often worth more than 
“purple and fine linen.” Miss Lyon also 
read passages from a very interesting 
essay on the subject of Humor.
In our last Assembly Miss Hinman spoke 
to us. Her talk was somewhat in the na­
ture of a lecture, caused by hearing mur­
murs about long lessons and hard work.
She compared our school life to a moun­
tain trip. As we start out the way is 
smooth and level and we walk along very 
easily. When we reach the base of the 
mountain the way becomes steeper and 
requires more effort to traverse it. As 
we climb higher, the way is rougher and 
steeper, our muscles become tired, we 
pant for breath and often want to stop
but finally we reach the summit and as 
we look about us we forget all our trials 
in the beauty of our surroundings.
So with our school life. The first few 
years, in kindergarten and primary grades, 
the teacher does the work and we merely 
play. As we advance the work becomes 
harder and we must give to it more time 
and labor. But, when at last we have 
reached our goal and have our diplomas 
and our degrees, then the way over which 
we have passed will matter little for we 
will be looking forward to further glory.
In another Assembly, Dr. Sill, the hus­
band of our beloved Miss Bray, gave a 
very interesting talk on Pittsburgh In­
dustries. He mentioned the various in­
dustries, how they are operated, and the 
chemical re-actions attendant upon the 
work of some of them. His remarks were 
very instructive and we shall be glad to 
have him speak to us again.
ALUMNI NEWS
Sara Fraser, 1911, has accepted a posi­
tion on the faculty of Belmont College, 
Nashville, Tennessee,
Sara Nolin, 1911, is a teacher at Clarion 
State Normal School.
Charlotte Rutherford, 1912, holds the 
position of Household Economics teacher 
in the Uniontown High School.
November 16, 1912, in the Faculty par­
lors, an Alumnae Tea was held. An ad­
dress was given by Director Hamerschlag. 
Miss Mary Craighead acted as hostess.
Olive Jenkins, 1912, is to be married 
New Years Eve to Earl Walker, U of P.
GUILD
Don’t forget to make some candy or 
some fancy work for the Guild Tea the 
first week in December. Now get to work 
and think of someone besides yourself.
ACCIDENT AT M. M. C. S.
Last Tuesday was a rather sorrowful 
day for the Margaret Morrison girls, and 
especially the girls of the Sophomore and 
Plebe Class who were intimate friends of 
Miss Duffey and Miss Kubler.
Just a few minutes before the one o’clock 
bell, when the street in front of the school 
was almost crowded with the many girls 
who were out walking, a small machine, 
driven by a very young boy came down 
the road in front of the school and knocked 
down and ran over Elizabeth Duffey and 
Albertina Kubler. The girls were immed­
iately carried into the school and attended 
to, but there was very great suspense 
among all those who saw the accident 
until it was reported that the injuries 
were not fatal. Miss Duffeys lower jaw 
was fractured, and she was very badly 
bruised and cut all over her face and body. 
Miss Kubler’s wrist was fractured, and she 
also was very much bruised. According 
to the last report before this paper went 
to press they were both getting along 
pretty well, although their conditions 
were both still serious.
A TREAT FOR THE JUNIORS
“Just Right” Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
“Just Right” Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemen’s profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
day. There was even a chorus of “Oh, 
I wish the hour weren’t over,” and a big 
sigh floated around the room.
What made it so interesting? Did you 
ever think of the wonderfu' influence of 
the Renaissance on Italian art? Well, 
that is what we saw and heard of last 
Thursday.
Mrs. Vermorcken has many beautiful 
slides showing the marvelous advance of 
painting since the time of the early By­
zantine art. She was kind enough to 
take one of our history hours and give us 
an illustrated lecture on the subject.
The most remarkable advance in paint­
ing was seen in the Madonnas, first of the 
Byzantine period and final y those of 
Raphael, whose Sistine Madonna is un- 
surpassingly beautiful.
The hour was certainly enjoyed and 
appreciated by all the girls and. we all 
unite in thanking Mrs. Vermorcken for 
her thoughtfulness and kindness.
M. M. C. S. DIRECTORY
Class Presdients—
Senior—Laura Green 
Tri-Senior—Margaret Eggleston 
Junior—Margaret Harrison 
Soph—Lorna Williams 
Plebe—Jean Wagner
SOCIETIES
Never did a history lesson prove more 
interesting, and never before did it pass 
so quickly as the Junior’s lesson on Thurs­
Glee Club—
Manager—Estelle Brodhead 
Secretary & Treasurer—Anna Lachman 
Pianist—Margaret Eggleston 
Librarians—Marian Lloyd 
Eliza Dickey
Dramatic Club—
President—Margeret H. Webb 
Stage Manager—Anna Bromley 
Secretary & Treasurer—Marion Lloyd 
Mistress of Wardrobe—Eleanor Law
M. M. C. S. Guild
President—Amelia Lehman 
Secretary & Treasurer—Lucy Pardoe
Pan Hellenic Society
• Members—
Theta Sigma 
Psi Delta Gamma 
Delta Delta 
Alpha Psi
Students’ Activities Committee
Chairman—Margaret Webb 
Estelle Brodhead 
Amelia Lehman
Thistle
Anna Lachman 
Ellen Cole 
Grace Little
Athletics
Basket Ball
Senior Captain—Cora Gherwig 
Junior Captain—Ruby Jack 
Soph Captain—Florence Lytle
PlERPONT, Si VI TER & CO.
ENGRAVING PRINTING
EMBOSSING
Monograms and Crest Stationery promptly furnished in the latest styles in addition to all classes of Art Printing for social and commercial purposes
117-119 SHADY AVENUE
<ISome hats have more style 
than quality-some the reverse. 
The best combination of both 
style and quality you will 
find at
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
6100 Penn Ave.
Open Evenings Monday and Saturday
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
MacDONALD'S
Candies and Ice Cream Fodas, Dainty Lunch. 
Tables for Ice Cream. Fancy Boxes, Baskets, 
Flavors Etc.
208 Sixth Street,Pittsburgh, Pa.
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the “eatin’s” for y3ur“doin’s’
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
DANCING
New School of Dancing 
Duquesne Garden, Main Entrance Second Floor, Mon., Wed., Sat.
Bell Schenley, 626. Residence, 2646-R
|o_fP N8u -oWI R. L. m_SI
If you don’t trade here we both loseRANDOLPH k McCLEMENTS
-o—Floral Experts—o-
5936 Penn Ave., near Highland 
Private Branch Exchange Hiland 25
“Patronize our Advertisers.”

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTANd
SMOKER OF THE JUNIOR CLASS
The Junior classes of the Design and 
Science schools held their first smoker 
for the year on Saturday evening, Novem­
ber 16th, at the Hotel Schenley. It was 
well attended, and all those present agreed 
that it ws the most successful affair the 
class has had in its school career.
Things started about 8:30, with a num­
ber of songs, and also some dances. A 
“Bear” executed by Miller and that most 
eminent miner, Thomas, was received with 
great approbation. “Kiddo” was too 
bashful to repeat his performance, how­
ever. Just then it was learned that the 
“eats” were coming, and the table at once 
became popular. For some little time 
then, the room was more quiet than usual. 
But the “eats” soon disappeared, the 
electric lights were turned off, and the 
room lighted only by candles. As it was 
so near Sunday, “Scotty” thought a few 
hymns would be apporpriatc and as he is 
well versed along that line, we gladly fol­
lowed his lead. Rayburn sang a solo, which 
greatly pleased all, and also led us in some 
more songs, accompanied by Pickering 
at the piano and some mandolins.
Thus the time passed. About eleven 
o’clock, President Kelcey called for order, 
and announced the names of the Junior 
Prom Committee consisting of Holzworth, 
Patterson, Routh, Clement and Diehl. 
He then introduced Manager Finkel of the 
fcotball team. Finkel gave a profitable 
talk on the pluckiness of our team, and 
the good spirit shown by the students. 
He then gave up the floor to Haaren, who 
succeeds him as Manager next year. The 
latter spoke on the work of the Thistle 
Board, its need for help from every stu­
dent, and its bright prospects for this year. 
Madison, the temporary Business Mana­
ger of the Thistle, also urged upon us to 
exert every effort to increase the distribu­
tion of this year’s book. We then heard 
about the basketball team for this year 
from Corbett, a comment on the good 
spirit of Tech students at the games from 
Rayburn and Miller, and a discussion of 
the work of the Athletic Association by 
Wood.
As it was nearing midnight, and we all 
had to be home early so as to be able to 
get up for Sunday School next morning, 
we adjourned after singing the AlmaMater, 
and giving a few cheers for Carnegie and 
her Junior Class.
CRUCIBLE CLUB MEETING
The Crucible Club will hold a meeting 
on Thursday evening, November 21, 1912, 
at 8:00 P. M. Room 209.
Mr. D. A. Lyon, of the U. S. Bureau of 
Mines will speak to the members on 
“Some Applications of Electricity to 
Chemistry and Metallurgy.”
The Crucible Club extends invitations 
to all those interested in electro-metallur­
gy to come to hear Mr. Lyon speak.
MUSICAL CLUBS AT McDONALD
The “Musica1 Clubs” journeyed to 
McDonald, Pa., last Friday night forty- 
five men in number and gave a concert in 
“Lafayette Ilall” at that place. A large 
number of misic lovers were present and 
i ulging from the applause the Musical 
Clubs made good in McDonald. Time 
after time were the Glee and Mandolin 
C lubs called to respond which they did,
giving sometimes three encores to a num­
ber. Hogdon brought down the house 
with his solo accompanied by the Glee 
Club. After the concert there was some 
talk of a return engagement. The Clubs 
while there were quartered at the Pitt 
Hotel which might be remarked treated 
the men with great hospitality.
LEAVES FOR PANAMA
R. A. Frampton, graduate of the School 
of Applied Industries, Day course, Class 
of ’12, left for Panama last Thursday 
and expects to be gone for about two years. 
He will have charge of a branch of the 
sanitary work on the Isthmus. Before 
leaving Mr. Frampton paid the School a 
visit and promised to keep in touch with 
the Institution during his absence. The 
readers of the Tartan can expect to hear 
from him from time to time.
NIGHT MEN TO HOLD SMOKER
True Values 
men’s suits, $21.50
B & BTrue Values
Stein Bloch Suits—extremely stylish Mixt Cheviot with Bluish cast, all sizes, 
Princess Serge lining, conventional models, $21.50.
Society Brand Suits—Suits for young men in beautiful shades of Tan—birdseye 
Unfinisht Worsted “Ritz Carlton” English model—sizes to 38—$30.00 Suits, $21.50.
Boggs & Biihlt 
Pittsburgh, Penn'a*
School books and tools will be laid aside 
Friday evening, November 22nd, 1912, 
by the night students of the Electrical 
Equipment and Construction Department, 
as that evening will be the occasion of 
their second semi-annual smoker. The 
doings will start in the Lecture Hall 
promptly at 8:15. The musical talent with 
their selections and solos will be a fea­
ture of the entertainment, and the guests 
will be the Faculty. Director Hamer- 
schlag will be on hand to partake of our 
hospitality and speak to the boys. Dean 
Connelly will give a little “talk” and has 
promised to procure some rattling good 
“movies.” This will conclude the enter­
tainment in the Lecture Room. Retire­
ment to the shop, which will be tempor­
arily transformed into a banquet hall, 
will be in order. Having still in their 
minds the last smoker all the men have 
promised to be present and partake of 
the treat that is in store for them. The 
committee is composed of the following 
men:—
P. E. Walker, Chairman 
Ralph Steetle, Sec. and Treas. .
J. F. Manley 
C. J. Daum 
Henry Frisch 
Alexander Findley 
John J. Clarke 
Frank Stein 
W. G. L. Wolf.
create a condition favorable to yourself. 
You may get a discount, or a special sale, 
or a stock of goods for your particular de­
mand may be laid in. Be it what it may, 
it is to your personal advantage to let the 
merchant know from whence you come. 
If you want more slips at any time the 
Business Editor will be pleased to furnish 
you with them, but if you have forgotten 
your slip, mention that you are from Tech 
and confer a favor upon the merchant, 
upon The Tartan, and upon yourself.
PANAMA-PACIFIC INTER­
NATIONAL EXPOSITION
It will be remembered that at the begin­
ning of the year The Tartan handed out 
printed slips with the request that when a 
purchase was made these slips be given to 
the clerk. The Tartan has received, as 
the direct result of this campaign, some 
very favorable letters from its advertisers 
telling of the receipt of the slips and the 
pleasure and gratification upon the demon­
stration that the “Tech boys” were inter­
ested. Some of these advertisers stated 
that they were especially pleased to know 
in some measure the volume of the busi­
ness received from.Tech, since it enabled 
them to make special preparations for it 
and possibly to offer special features. So 
you see, Mr. Reader, that it works both 
ways, that it is of as much advantage to 
you to hand in these slips as it is to The 
Tartan or to its friends, the advertisers. 
What you do when you hand in the slips 
or mention that you are from Tech is to
THE BOSTON
will be taught in class Wednesday 
evenings at 8 P. M. at the
Jacques’ Dancing Academy
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
Come to us to be suitedBell Phone Schenley II70=L
College Clothes
at $20 to $40
In a recent issue of the Scientific Ameri­
can, it is stated that the men in charge 
of the International Panama-Pacific Ex­
position, to be opened in San Francisco in 
1915, are already hard at work.
In this exposition the commercial and 
industrial side will not predominate. 
Past expositions have shown that these 
international gatherings afford an excell­
ent opportunity for the world’s really great 
men to get together and interchange their 
views. A feature of this exposition, there­
fore, will be a World Congress, which will 
discuss and formulate doctrines for the 
benefit of mankind.
This plan depends for its success upon 
the selection of delegates. They must be 
men who are not only leaders in their 
respective lines, but who also possess a 
broad and comprehensive view of the 
world’s needs. Such a congress should 
do much towards solving many of the 
important problems of today. Conclu­
sions upon world questions by such a 
representative body should have an ex­
ceedingly great weight.
Of course, the exposition will follow 
along the line of previous ones in exhibits, 
etc. Eighteen states have already select­
ed sites for their buildings, and as many 
more have taken steps to appoint commis­
sions for attending to the same. New 
York has appropriated three quarters of a 
million dollars, and Pennsylvania is ex­
pected to equal or exceed this sum. Like­
wise the Western states have made pro­
portionately large appropriations, and the 
exhibit of California itself will be well 
worth seeing.
President Taft appointed a Commission 
to visit foreign countries and to invite 
them to participate in the exposition. 
The Commission has done its work, and 
France has already accepted. Without 
doubt the other European nations will 
follow her example. In addition there 
will be large representations from Japan, 
China, India, Australia, and the South 
American republics. In fact all nations 
interested in trade through the Canal will 
do their share to make this Exposition 
the greatest thing of its kind ever under­
taken.
University Tailoring Co*
S. F. Pacyna, Prop.
3711 5th Ave.
S’ 2| Students, Attention! %t *^ When presenting your Tartan coupon4* at our store, do not fail to give us your 
J* name and address. j7* o*-4* 4-¦§* “Something doing later on.” ft
I C. A. HEIMERT’S I
Where all the Tech Boys go.
4+ ft& To the Progressive “Men’s Wear’Store” 44.
4* of Oakland4* ' ft4$. 3614 Forbes St. Iroquois Block 4* ft
Stop at
STAUFT’S
News—Stationer—Tobacco
3702 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
DRINK
Duquesne
The Coffee that suits 35c lb.
©eo. Ifc. ^tebettson & Co.
606 Wood St., Downtown Highland and Center Aves., E. E.
GOODCLOTHESCHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers.
504-506 Federal St., N. S.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
BUREAU OF RECOMMEN­
DATIONS.
CHRISTMAS VACATION WORK
A number of requests are coming in 
from employers for students to work dur­
ing Christmas Vacation. This work will 
include employment in department stores, 
groceries, express companies, post office, 
etc.
Any students desirous of securing work 
at that time are urged to hand in their 
names at the earliest possible moment.
FIRST CALL FOR BASKETBALL
The first call for ’Varsity basketball 
candidates has been issued and practice 
hours set. The practice will start at 5 
o’clock on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday 
and Friday and at 6 o’clock on Wednesday 
of each week. Captain Colvin is confident 
of a good team this year, having lest but 
two men; from last year’s first squad. Be­
sides thèse, he will have a number of prep 
school players of reputation to draw from. 
Manager Corbett has his schedule well un­
der way and will announce .it finally next 
week. It is a good one, including several 
trips out of town to take two or three days.
DESIGN P. G. STUDENTS HAVE 
EXCITING MEETING
NIGHT DRAFTMAN’S CLUB 
MEETING
CROSS-COUNTRY RUN
ford game. The leaders will probably 
be in the field about 2:15, which means 
that a good crowd will see the finish. The 
six leading men will be entered in the 
Crafton run on Thanksgiving Day. These 
will be relied upon to bring Carnegie Tech 
in ahead in the race.
DEAN CONNELLY SPEAKS AT 
MEETING OF MANUAL 
ARTS ASSOCIATION
Gne of the most exciting political events 
in recent Carnegie Tech history was the 
election of officers by the post graduate 
architects. The meeting, held in one 
corner of the big drafting room, and wit­
nessed by several seniors, was called to 
order by temporary chairman McCullough. 
Nominations^ for president were then in 
order. Kingsley nominated McCullough, 
who then vacated the chair while nomi­
nating Kingsley. In view of the impend­
ing deadlock which was bound to follow 
the meeting went into a committee of the 
whole and resolved to decide the elections 
by tossing a coin, the man winning the 
first toss to be president and the loser to 
be vice president. The man winning the 
second toss to be secretary and the loser 
to be treasurer. The results were as fol­
lows :—
President...........................M. G. Kingsley
Vice President............. H.M. McCullough
Secretary.......................H. M. McCullough
Treasurer.......... ........M. G. Kingsley
After the meeting the class adjourned 
to the beanery to celebrate.
The Night Draftman’s Club will hold 
their first meeting Thursday, November 
21, 1912. room 104 at 9:30 P. M., Applied 
Industries Building. All Night Draftsmen 
are requested to attend. Election of offi­
cers.
At the November meeting of the Manual 
Arts Association of Allegheny County, 
he’d at the Fifth Avenue High School, 
Dean C. B. Connelly, of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, gave an interest­
ing report on the Fiftieth Annual Conven­
tion which met in Chicago during the 
summer. For the past two yeais Mr. Con­
nelly has been president of the Depart­
ment of Manual Training and Art of the 
National Education Association and pre­
sided over the meetings held along that 
particular line during the Convention. 
His talk was an excellent resume of the 
many and varied papers and addresses 
given on that occasion and were of special 
interest to the workers in the fields of 
Manual Arts. He supplemented his ad­
dress by Charts showing the various phases 
of vocational life, and household arts and 
the relation of food values.
NIGHT C CLASS ORGANIZES
The third year Night men or the C class 
of the School of Applied Industries met 
last Friday night at a call of the Dean and 
organized their class. F. J. Hartman pre­
sided over the meeting and the election 
resulted as follows:—
President.,^........................Chesley L. Otto
Vice President.................Ralph W. Steetle
Secretary & Treasurer. . . . Edgar L. Shryock 
Tartan Representative..Raymond F. Crom 
Mr. Crom was also chosignasa member 
of the Thistle Board and promises to see 
that the Night classes are wel' represented 
in this year’s publication.
AIRSHIP ADVANCEMENT
Starting at one o’clock next Saturday 
the cross-country squad will leave the 
Field House for a race through Schenley 
Park. The course has been laid out by 
Captain “Chuck” Crawford of the track 
team, and is about six miles in length. 
The finish will be in front of the grand 
stand on the field track, before the Haver-
“A NATIONAL INSTITUTION”Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439=441 WOOD STREET
Why Not
frciieritk’s
Pittsburg’s Finest Victrola Parlors
For All Your
VICTR.OLA
Shopping
No matter how large or how small your purchase—you receive the 
same careful courteous treatment. The unmatchable Frederick, service 
always yours.
Attend Our Noon-Time Recitals, Third Floor Auditorium
W. F. Frederick Piano Co.
Knabe and Hardman Pianos; Angelus, Knabe=Angelus and Autotone Players
635=637 Smithfield Street
City Office:
631 Penn AvenueEast End Office: 
S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
The advance in airship construction, 
due to the rivalry of various German 
aeronauts, is progressing so rapidly that 
it may now be only a question of months 
until we have a transatlantic airship.
Within the last week or two, Count 
Zeppelin, in his new naval machine, made 
a journey in the air, lasting thirty hours, 
and covering approximately 1200 miles, 
or nearly one-half the distance across the 
Atlantic.
Professor Schuette, designer and builder, 
who is now in America, has made the 
statement to newspapers that already 
German engineers can build an airship of 
sufficient power and endurance to cross 
the ocean. His only reason for delaying 
the trip is that up to this time no com­
plete information has been obtained as to 
the winds and air currents over the At­
lantic.
Another German engineer, Major Par­
se val, is now constructing an airship which 
will doubtless be fully as rigid as those 
invented by Zeppelin and improved by 
Professor Schuette. These three men all 
agree that the rigid airshjj) is to be the 
successful one of the future. And they 
are also upheld by French engineers, who 
are just finishing at Paris, a rigid airship 
of enormous size.
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St.Clair and Mellon Sts.
Professor Schuette has said that within 
three or four years airships will be regu­
larly crossing the Atlantic, and this seems 
more than possible, considering Zeppelin’s 
latest voyage of thirty hours.
Recently the German War office de­
manded airships that can remain in the 
air at least two days, and they must be 
able to carry from 13 to 14 tons of cargo. 
As a result, Professor Schuett’s new ship 
is designed to carry 14 tons of cargo and 
will be 100 feet longer than his original 
dirigible. This addition of 100 feet to 
the length is something naval architects 
have never dared to do in such a short 
period of development, and would seem 
to indicate that the technical difficulties 
in airship construction have been over­
come. So it is now perhaps only a ques­
tion of time necessary to make trial trips, 
etc., before we have transatlantic air navi­
gation.
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers­
piration, odor and grime. See Shu­
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar.P. &. A. Phone 952-A
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presfps the grime
H. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC Headquarters for Band and Orchestra Instruments, Music and Supplies 
No 601 Ohio Street tit rt f < nCorner of Middle N. S., PittSOUrgh, Pa.
Bell pKorve 3465 Grant
Standard Desks, Macey Filing Cabinets and Sectional Book Cases, Steel Book Units, Filing Devices and Safe Cabinets
J. Q. Marshall Company
Office and Library Furniture 
959 Liberty Avenue Pittjbjfg, Pa
‘Patronize our Advertisers.’

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
Theaters Week of Nov. 25.
ALVIN—'“.Bought and Paid For,” the 
now celebrated Broadhurst drama that 
stayed in New York two years and created 
no end of favorable opinion from all 
classes of theatergoers, will come to the 
Alvin next week with Charles Richman 
and Julia Dean in their original roles. It 
is a play worth seeing.—----------o------------
NIXON—At this theater “The Garden 
of Allah,” will begin a two weeks engage­
ment presenting a spectacular drama of 
impressive realism. Nothing like the big 
scenes of this play have ever been seen on 
one stage. Dorothy Donnelly is playing
the chief female role.------i-----o------------
GRAND—Lulu Glaser in a tabloid 
musical comedy will head the bill of varied 
vaudeville at the Grand.-----------o----«*==—
DUQUESNE—“The Other Girl,” an 
amusing little play in which a preacher 
and a pugilist figure prominently is to be 
the offering by the Stock Company. It
is amusing.
LYCEUM—“The Little Tenderfoot,” 
an unusual Western melodrama, without 
gun firing or husky villians, will be pre­
sented at the Lyceum.
CIVIL ENGINEERING SOCIETY
(b)
(c)
(d
The following program has been ar­
ranged for the meeting of the Civil Engi­
neering Society on the evening of the 23 rd 
of November. 8:00 P. M., meeting called 
called to order.
(a) Short business session.
Lecture by Mr. Nichols on “Sani­
tation of Camp Life.” 
Refreshments.
Discussion of the following subject: 
“Would it be advisable to introduce the 
Elective System in the Junior and Senior 
Classes at the C.I.T. Engineering School?” 
Discussion Opened by:—Dornberger, 
Wood, Penterman.
The program as arranged is in line with 
the new policy adopted by the Society 
at the beginning of this year, and should 
prove interesting and instructive.
By Order of Executive Committee.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn and Frankstown, E. E.
“GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00”
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Men’s Boots. This is strictly a young 
man’s boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
^fBuilt for us by a famous Brockton Man­
ufacturer.
Step in Our Men’s Department
HOTEL SCHENLEYPITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H. Heyn, President 
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge of our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support­
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. phone 285 schenley
c
Wfw 
^'ii^
/l
t-TT& £
Tfrt
iF
yNffM8U8tW _r saM -_8sa
