Merry Christmas - Happy New Year
Austin
Action in Tech-Pitt Game
Frank Sobolewski sinks one from under the basket in the early 
part of Friday night’s Steelbowl contest. Standing by are “Tiger” 
Rupert (32), A1 Frank (14) and several Pitt players. See page 5 
Fr details.
Woodrow Wilson’s Life 
Is Subject Of Lecture
Dr. Curry’s Book Source Of Talk
0
“Woodrow Wilson and American Idealism” will be the subject 
a talk by Roy W. Curry on January 8 at 11:30 in the SI A audi­
torium to commemorate the centennial of Woodrow Wilson’s birth.
The appearance of his book entitled Woodrow Wilson and Eastern 
Policy,” which according to latest* 
word will receive formal publica
Long-Term Loans
All students needing long­
term loans for spring semester 
registration should place their 
application in AH 154 by to­
morrow December 19.
Foreign Students
Foreign students ' who ex­
pect to leave the United States 
during Christmas Recess 
should consult Mr. Swank to­
day Tuesday, December 18, 
1956.
tion before the January 8 date of 
this lecture will climax Profes­
sor Curry’s years of special study 
on Woodrow Wilson. Source ma­
terials on Wilson’s career are 
abundant, and Professor Curry 
worked at length in the six 
tons of Wilson papers preserved 
in the Library of Congress. He 
has also interviewed personally 
a number of the members of Wil­
son’s administration.
For our world of the 1950’s 
President Wilson is above all, 
important for the decisive contri­
butions ha made toward greater 
government responsibility in 
Amërican life and toward inter­
national organization for the 
world. In both of these contribu­
tions Wilson was an authentic ex­
pression of the forces of American , ,idealism, as these had developed ^OTld Political problems 
„i ----- ------- ---------------„—* many, seems after somout of our counw&s special exy 
perience in the 19th pentury. fi
Wilson’s conneftich to Western 
Pennsylvania was much ^loser 
than most people realize. His 
grandfather owned a newspaper0
Pittsburgh, and his father was 
inister in several churches in 
Western Pennsylvania, moving to 
Virginia only a short few months 
before the birth of the young 
Woodrow.
As one of the few Americans 
who have most powerfully influ­
enced the ideals and actual lives 
of men around the world, Wood­
row Wilson may deserve to be 
better known. December 28 will 
¿e the hundredth anniversary of 
Woodrow Wilson’s birth.
Foreign
United Stages students able 
to Iwty their own transporta­
tion abroad and interested in 
sumnieir employment with an 
European industry to «alp 
technical experience should 
consult with Dean Forstall be­
fore the Christmas recess.
Robert H. Morgan 
To Aid Students 
In Religious Work
Robert H. Morgan, a senior in 
Western Theological Seminary, 
has been appointed for part time 
work as program assistant in re­
ligious affairs. His primary pur­
pose will be to work with the stu­
dents on the Committee of Reli­
gious Activities for the spring 
semester and will also be associ­
ated with the YMCA.
Mr. Morgan is the second stu­
dent from Western Theological 
Seminary appointed temporarily 
in the office of Coordinator of Re­
ligious Activities. The other, Bob 
Marsano, will work exclusively 
with the YMCA.
Mr. Morgan, a native of Steu­
benville. Ohio, has a B.A. in his­
tory from Westminster College, 
where he was a member of Eta 
Sigma Phi, a classical language ¡greiiminaxy 
honorary fraternity. At Western only 600 
Theological Seminary since 1955, 
he is social chairman of the Stu­
dent Presbytery, and has been 
tutoring his fellow students in his 
hobby of oil painting. Having
worked last year at "Mt. Washing­
ton Presbyterian Church, he 
seems well qualified 
the best interiksts of t
ork in P
students. § ti
Germany: Can 
Be Accomplished!ac
ByÇÇhomas T. Helde, assistant profe
During recimt weeks, the crucial naturi 
and Suez hàfc plâced in the background mtfst other
¦———-—
Pre-Haynient Vlan 
Set For Spring
To help reduce the amount jbf 
time spent by students in the 
registration area, the plan for 
prepayment of fees will be in 
effect for the spring semester of 
1956-57. All students may parti­
cipate except the following: Stu­
dents Who are carrying reduced 
schedules (those carrying less 
than 24 units).
At any time during the period 
of January 14 through January 
29, students tx»»y stop at the Reg­
istrar’s Office and make their 
payments. However, it must be 
understood that for dormitory 
stCvdcnts, the dormitory fee must 
be paid at the same time.
/fit also should be understood 
that all students, whether partici­
pating or not, must appear at the 
registration area the same as al­
ways to complete schedules and 
fill out IBM forms, but the stu­
dents who have prepaid their fees 
will not be required to go to the 
Women’s Gym where the cashier 
will be set up.
t‘uu:3i
«x"
of history
s in Hun^a t-y 
or potehtia\
But at l^ast one of these problems, Ger- 
months of relative quiescence to bife in a
-----------?position where it may soon take
the stage again in a role of pri­
mary importance.
On the surface* no striking 
change is apparent in the well- 
established pattern of Germany’s 
post-war dual personality: on the 
one hand, a west German repub­
lic, politically oriented toward 
America and western Europe, a 
member of NATO and the West­
ern European Union, hesitantly 
rearming, and actively prosper­
ing; on the other, an east German 
republic, shored up by the Rus­
sians, “democratic” in the Soviet 
sense of the word, actively re­
arming, and far from prosperous.
A solution, aceptable to Amer­
ica (and her allies) and to the 
Russians, which would provide 
for German reunification under 
conditions compatible with Eu­
ropean security, seems as far 
away as ever. Yet underneath the 
surface, Germany, both east and 
west, is torn by tensions which 
are of critical significance. 
Adenauer’s Plan 
In the west, the aged Chancellor 
Adenauer’s party, the Christian 
Democratic Union, has determined 
[continued on page 4J
School G 
For Fami
iljlmgsTwo 27 Unit Apartment 
To Repl ace Barrac*sC $J&iK*;tures
The Federal Housing and Home Finance i^ceatly ap­
proved a $600,000 loan to Carnegie Tech for consfl'uctiqp' 4* two 
apartment type dormitories for married students^ 1'hns Span will 
cover the greater part of the cost of ttese units. Upmeh ig expected
?to be io t^je\ neight^4iood of
,000>00. < ) JlLocal Problems 
Again Is Subject 
Of Essay Contest
The second annual essay 
test on community or govern 
problems is now under way. Thi 
contest offers an unusual 
tunity to undergraduaf£5"Tn E<! 
IM, and PM because they are the 
only students eligible to partici­
pate. These restrictions eliminate 
the prevalent conception tly*f 
essay contests are won exclusive­
ly by super-writers from different
fields or other schools. Last year’s contain 15 one-bedroom apart - 
results were vety satisfactory. 1 
A second attractKje xejm^er'vbf 
this contest Is the fact thaj thf
>° rental fee. Off-street parking space
íistá/Vm tovo^*fti=^provided behind the bulid'ing.selecte^ras 
compose complete essays, .which 
will not\be due untiV Carnival 
time. The preliminary entry» to be 
submitted bn or before February 
15, .1957, is to consist of (ft) a 
statement of, not ov$t 4>00 words 
setofcitllfthe proWe*n and sug- 
lines of apalyeis and solu- 
nd (b)t apptmded evidence 
bstautiating the§£, such as clip- 
bibliographies, or
7,who participate in under- 
irboi^Ns^operative work 
[continued on page 7]
rPanliel Sponsors 
Party For New 
Women Students
On Sunday, December 16, the 
Junior Panhellenic Council held 
the second annual Christmas par­
ty for the transfer and freshmen 
girls interested in joining a soror­
ity. The purpose of the party, 
held in the Morewood Gardens' 
Recreation Room was to acquaint 
the girls with the various Tech 
sororities before the second se­
mester rushing formally begins.
Each of the seven sororities 
was represented by its first se­
mester pledge class and ten ac­
tives. These girls answered many 
of the questions the new girls had, 
and tried to solve many of their 
problems concerning sororities.
The girls also heard speeches 
from Miss Martha Foy, dean of 
women, Miss Margaret Le Clair, 
dean of Margaret Morrison Col­
lege, and Mary A. Harrison, jun­
ior home economics student. They, 
too, cleared up many of the points 
about sorority life at Tech.
The organizers of the party 
were all members of the Junior 
Panhellenic Council, which is 
made up of delegates from each 
sorority's fall pledge class. Under 
[continued front page 2J
Austtin“ttW
N( «te M
bee n
tion beerr^-1"'
qgfruetion has 
>xact loca- 
Hew^ver. a ten- 
^tiv4 sf1ie foW3Sth structures is at 
^fe^ibrner of ïi&vhgg'''and Beeler 
ets, rig#!-^exPHo the present
•ding TTKpfesent plans, each 
ildirfe \H11 b4 three stories high, 
masonry ^o^touction, and in 
iod^At apitftiM» design. They 
wilt* houseva total of 54 students 
ahd'their-families. Each dorm will
' I
igs a«d 12 efficiency apart­
ments, ill to be furnished and 
rented no students at a moderate
At present, there are two bar­
racks buildings housing 24 mar­
ried students. They were con­
structed during World War II and, 
like the already demolished FPHA 
men’s derm, have outlived their 
usefulness. The area which they 
occupy will eventually be convert­
ed to athletic field area.
Fourteen Initiated 
Into Tau Beta Pi 
At Carnegie Union
Tau Beta Pi. the engineering 
and science honorary, held an in­
itiation dinner in Carnegie Un­
ion, December 9. Norman Achilles, 
William Chu, Robert Detig. John 
Fleming, George Fuls, David 
Harrington, Thomas Harrison, 
Russel Jones, Robert Marik, 
Robert O’Brien, Anthony Robbi, 
Jon Saxe, Thomas Stuhlfire, and 
John Offutt were initiated into 
the honorary at this time.
The speaker of the evening was 
Mr. Stanton Belfour, the director 
of the Pittsburgh Foundation. His 
talk, entitled “The Pittsburgh 
Story” proved to be very facinat- 
ing and interesting to the mem­
bers and guests.
Carnegie Tech’s chapter of Tau 
Beta Pi is the Pennsylvania 
Gamma Chapter. One of the chief 
functions of this honorary on 
Tech’s campus is the tutoring 
service it offers for freshmen and 
sophomores in their engineering 
and science courses. These tutor­
ing sessions have been going on 
for the last few weeks and will 
continue into the next semester.
The officers of Tau Beta Pi are 
Terry Sharp, president; Lou Sal­
vador, vice president; Robert Rus­
sell, recording secretary; David 
Stea, corresponding secretary; 
John Leonard, treasurer; David 
Clement cataloguer.

---------------------------------------------------

F»se 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 1*. 1956
Dr. Albert Y. Martin 
Appointed To Faculty
A striking contradiction to the age-old maxim that all college 
professors are staid, aloof and relatively unconscious of the world 
about them is provided by a 36 year-old professor of electrical en­
gineering at Tech. ?----------------------------------------------— ¦¦
Dr. Albert Victor Jean Martin, 
a recent addition to the Tech fac­
ulty, is a classic contradiction to 
the old rule. He is an interna­
tionally noted expert in the field 
of technical television and elec­
tronics, the author of four books 
published in three languages, the 
former editor of a French techni­
cal magazine and the writer of 
many articles on the subjects of 
TV, radio, electronics and radar.
Dr. Albert V. J. Martin
ankSo bb lewsifm
One of the more important of 
his claims to fame, however, is 
hardly scholarly. Dr. Martin is 
engaged to Miss Universe of 1956, 
18-year-old Claudi'e Petit. One of 
France’s best known fashion 
models, Miss Petit has presented 
gowns for designers Balenciaga, 
Dior, and Fath.
TV Producer
On the aesthetic side of elec­
tronics, Dr. Martin’s hobby is di-
Gal 9n Guy Greeks 
Treat Orphans 
To Parties, Toys
Half-drowned and happy, Tri- 
Delts and Kappa Sigs reluctantly 
parted with cheery water pistol- 
bearing orphans at the Kappa 
Sigma house on Friday, Decem­
ber 7. Their joint Christmas or­
phans party was the first in a se­
ries of philanthropic affairs put 
on by the “Greeks” at Christmas 
time.
The Tri-Delt-Kappa Sig party, 
for orphans between nine and 
thirteen, was a huge success, 
especially for the little boys who 
delightedly battled from lofty 
perches on Kappa Sig shoulders 
with their new water-filled gifts. 
Their happiness kept the wet­
haired Tri-Delts spirits dry.
Thirty underprivileged Negro 
children were entertained by Sig­
ma Kappa and Beta Theta Pi in 
the Black Cat Lounge. On Friday, 
December 14, Alpha Epsilon Phi 
and Tau Delta Phi showed mov­
ies at their party for underprivi­
leged children and Delta Upsilon 
fed their orphans ice cream and 
cake that same evening.
Others Carol
The Beta Sigma Hho house was 
the scene of the annual Kappa 
Kappa Gamma-Beta Sig orphans 
party last night. The Kappas fin­
ished up the evening in a truly 
Christmas spirit by caroling 
with their Pitt sisters.
But orphans parties are not the 
only sign of Christmas around 
Tech. Several of the fraternities, 
sororities, and other groups, as 
good-intentioned as the others, 
were unable to obtain -orphans 
because they were “all booked 
up.”Some of them went to hospitals 
and homes for the aged to carol. 
Last night the Chi O’s sang at the 
Home for the Aged. And several 
groups have had parties here on 
campus for just the Tech students
recting and producing television 
programs. In France he has di­
rected and produced panel shows, 
a few dramatic programs, and a 
number of variety series. The 
latter gave Dr. Martin the oppor­
tunity to direct such internation­
ally known actors and actresses 
as Juliette Greco, Edith Piaf, Ed­
dy Constantine, Charles Trenet, 
“Les Compagnons de la Chanson”, 
and Martine Carol.
Dr. Martin came to the United 
States at the end of October as 
part of the immigration quota on 
a permanent visa and hopes to 
stay here permanently.
He says, “I have been in over 20 
countries throughout the world 
and -have always admired Amer­
ica. For someone who wants to 
advance in my field, the U.S. of­
fers a technical level far above 
any other place in the world. And 
also very important is that fact 
that in America, like nowhere 
else, accomplishments are recog­
nized. The people are dynamic 
and want nothing but the best.”
Phi Kappa Phi
Graduate fellowships, each 
with a stipend of $1500.00 for 
one year, are awarded annu­
ally by the honor society of 
Phi Kappa Phi. Any senior 
member of the society who 
wishes to apply for such a 
fellowship for the year 1957-
1958 should obtain an appli­
cation form and further in­
formation about the award 
from Miss Anna Mary Orr, 
AH 263.
Active student members of 
the Carnegie Chapter who ex­
pect to attend the initiation 
dinner on Tuesday, January 8, 
1957, are requested to return 
the reservation forms to Miss 
Martha P. Eggers, MM 22 be­
fore January 5, 1957.
Party-
uwnSfkSsdt hrny pegd 1] 
the direction of the council’s pres­
ident, Fran Blasdell, the various 
committees were: refreshment,
Virginia Austin and Jane Patsch; 
invitations, Ellen Freshman and 
Dolores Arnold; advertisement, 
Paula Kremen and Ginger Dan- 
cull; decorating and entertain­
ment, Fran Bebic and Barbara 
Fisher; and name tags Audrey 
Camp and Beth Liden.
Christmas Season Celebrated 
By People All Over The World
By Jim Bailey
Christmas is the celebration of the birth of the Christ Child; it 
is obviously, a day of the greatest religious significance. The beautiful 
story of the humble birth of the Saviour of mankind has been told 
for more than 1900 years in every city and town and village in alnM»t
?every corner of the earth, fneHillel Gives Key | catholic, meaning universal, ob-
To Dr. Sochotoff
Dr. A. Fred Sochatoff has been 
given the Hillel recognition key 
in appreciation of his advice and 
leadership for the past three 
years.
The key, presented at Hillers 
bi-monthly meeting December 5, 
is gold and inscribed with a scroll, 
the Torah, a quill and the Hebrew 
letter for Hillel.
Besides having served as an 
advisor to the group since its in­
ception, Dr. Sochatoff had work­
ed with Dr. Robert Schwarz from 
February to May of 1956 as a 
temporary leader until rabbinical 
guidance could be obtained. El­
liot Rothman, as spokesman for 
Hillel, said, “Dr. Sochatoff has 
been a constant guide to us, and 
we are quite indebted to him.”
An associate professor of Eng­
lish, Dr. Sochatoff is president of 
the Committee on Religious Ac­
tivities.
servance of the birth of Christ is 
exemplified by the many different 
customs and traditions that pre­
vail in foreign lands.
Religious services predominate 
in the English Christmas celebra­
tions. Many carolers gather under 
the lofty arches of the cathedrals 
at midnight on Christmas Eve to 
sing the old and cherished hyirms 
and carols.
One of the most beautifully 
symbolic traditions of Christ’s 
birth is practiced in Ireland. On 
Christmas Eve, lighted can­
dles are placed in every window, 
and the doors are left slightly 
open. The meaning behind this 
custom signals a spirit of warmth 
to the “Mother bearing her Child” 
for whom 'there was no room at 
the inn. The candles bum 
night long and may only be ex­
tinguished on Christmas morning 
by a person with the name of 
Mary.
After Mass on Christmas morn- 
u’nSfkSsdt nS page 8]
Oran Ritter asks:
Does Du Pont 
hire men who 
have definite 
military
commitments?
d
Oran A. Ritter, Jr., expects to receive his B.S. in chemical engineer­
ing from Louisiana State University in June 1957. He’s now editor- 
in-chief of the “L.S.U. Engineer,” local president of Tau Beta Pi, and 
senior member of the Honor Council of his university. Oran’s ques­
tion is on the minds of many men planning a technical career.
#
Don Sutherland answers
Donald O. Sutherland graduated from Virginia Polytechnic 
Institute in 1953 with an M.S. degree in chemical engineering and 
an R.O.T.C. commission. He was hired by Du Pont’s plant at 
Victoria, Texas. After two years in the service, Don returned to 
his career in engineering, and is now doing plant-assistance work 
in the technical section at Victoria.
r
s, Oran, we certainly do! We’ve employed quite a 
number of college graduates with definite military 
commitments, even when we knew they could work no 
more than a few weeks before reporting for duty. Take 
my own case. I was hired in November of 1953 and 
worked for only four weeks before leaving for the Army. 
Two years later I returned to Du Pont. -r
You see, we’re primarily interested in men on a long- 
range basis. The fact that they’re temporarily unavail­
able, for a good reason like military service, isn’t any bar 
to their being considered for employment. After working 
only one day, an employee is guaranteed full re-employ­
ment rights—that’s the law. And if a man works for 
Du Pont a full year before entering the service for two or 
more years, he receives an extra two months’ salary. If he 
goes into the service for six months, he’s paid a half
month’s salary. When he’s entitled to a vacation but 
doesn’t have time to take it before leaving, Du Pont 
gives him equivalent pay instead.
Even if present employment is impossible, Oran, we 
definitely recommend your talking with Du Pont’s repre­
sentatives as well as those of other companies. The very 
least you’ll gain will be valuable background and some 
contacts of real benefit to you when you leave military 
service.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about working with Dii Pont? 
Send for a free copy of “The Du Pont Company and the 
College Graduate,** a booklet that tells you about oppor­
tunities for work in all departments of the Company. Write 
to the Du Pont Company, 2621 Nemours Building, Wil­
mington, Delaware.
«r
tM.u.i.FAlOft,
BETTEI TM INOS PO* SETTE* Il VINO . . . THROUGH CHÊÊMUtt
Wateh “Du Pont Theater” on Ulevition

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 18, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
Shiny braces that will straighten? 
Inlays? Fillings? Upper platen?
Another gift that is always welcome is a book, espe­
cially to people who read. This Christmas the selection 
of books is particularly attractive. For lovers of an­
thologies, there is William Makepeace Sherpa’s A Treas­
ury of the World’s Great Treasuries. For those who fancy 
inspiring success stories, there is the stirring autobi­
ography of William Makepeace Pemmican entitled How 
I Got a Forty Pound Monkey Off My Back and Started 
'jf the Duluth Zoo. For devotees of skin-diving, there is 
I Married a Snorkel by Lydia Makepeace Watershed. For 
calorie counters and waistline watchers, there is Harry 
Makepeace Wildfoster’s Eat and Grow Fat.
My own favorite book this season is a pulse-pounding 
historical novel from that famous author of pulse-pound­
ing historical novels, Daphne Makepeace Sigafoos. This 
one is called Egad and Zounds, and it tells the poignant 
romance of two young lovers, Egad and Zounds, who, 
alas, can never be married, for fiery Egad is but a gypsy 
lass, while tempestuous Zounds is a Kappa Sigma. They 
& later become Ludwig of Bavaria.
My final gift suggestion is one that a great many 
people have been fervently wishing for since last year. 
Do you remember' the introduction last Christmas of 
tiny personal portable radios that plugged into your ear? 
Well, this year, you will be delighted to know, you can 
buy an ingenious pick to get them out.O Max Shulman, 1956
Old Max mid it, but it bears repealing: A carton of Philip 
MorrisF made by the sponsors of this columnF is a Christmas 
r gift that*s bound to please everyone!
Martin Jepson, E.E., Purdue, ’53, 
is an Engineer in the Radio and 
Special Services Section of Illinois 
Bell Telephone Company.!
• “I help design mobile radiotele­
phone systems,” says Martin. “We 
have a wide variety of customers, 
f including trucking firms, railroads
and marine traffic of all kinds. Many 
businessmen, too, want these systems 
for their private cars. Each customer 
has his own communications prob­
lems, and these are a constant and 
stimulating engineering challenge.
“Another part of my job is to help 
set up facilities for conventions,
sports events and the like. Last sum­
mer’s Democratic National Conven­
tion, for instance, used enough 
circuits and facilities to serve a small 
city. There were special circuits for 
broadcasting, teletypewriters, the 
press, and for inside communica­
tions. It was our job to set those 
facilities up and keep them operating.
“The increase in demand for tele­
phone and related services is phe­
nomenal. It’s this growth that’s 
creating real career opportunities in 
the telephone business. Add to this 
the fact that it’s a stable business, 
and you’ve really got something!”
Martin Jepson is one of many young men who 
are finding interesting careers in Bell Tele* 
phone Companies, and also in Bell Telephone 
Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Cor­
poration. See your placement officer for more 
information about Bell System Companies.
¦ ILL
TELEPHON!
SYSTEM
Dramat Narrates Experiences 
On Downtown Shopping Trip
By Denny Brite
Well, here it is again—tinkle-time. I walk through the musty 
carnival of downtown Pittsburgh and am bounced off the edges of 
multi-colored packages of the red-nosed gentry. Every 30 feet of 
7-jgiewalk I am confronted with a new Santa, each a little bit more
anemic looking than the last. ?-------------------------——-----------—---------
Every passerby, a potential life- 
of-the-party, is all too willing to 
jangle a silver and red bell at my 
aching lobes. Shabbily dressed 
old buffoons of the alleys are 
carefully unravelling rolls of 
bright red reflector tape down
their white canes. The owners of 
the outdoor fruit stands, in a state 
of disrepair, are tenderly fondling 
their green banana stalks from 
the refrigerator of December.
In front of the coffee shop on 
the corner the bitter-sweet picket-
QnC^nmswith 
Max Shulman
(Author of «Barefoot Boy With Cheek," etc.)
THE GIFT HORSE
The college life is a busy one, especially at this time 
tP of year. What with going to classes and studying for 
exams and pursuing a full social schedule and construct­
ing rope ladders to foil dormitory curfews, the average 
undergrad is so pressed for time that he cannot do justice 
to his Christmas shopping.
Therefore, to aid you in your Christmas shopping, I 
have gone into the market place and selected for you a 
list of gifts, notable for their originality.
Perhaps the most original gift of all this year is a 
carton of Philip Morris Cigarettes. “Original?” you ex- 
gjj Claim, your bushy young eyebrows rising. “Why, we 
have been giving cartons of Philip Morris for years!’*
True, I reply, but each time you give Philip Morris, 
it is a new treat, a fresh delight, a pristine pleasure. Each 
carton, each pack, each cigarette, each puff, is just as 
good as the first one you ever tried.
Another gift destined for certain popularity this 
year is a gift certificate from the American Dental As­
sociation. This certificate, good, at any dentist’s office in 
America, is accompanied by a handsome gift card upon 
0 which is engraved this lovely poem:
Merry Christmas, little pal,
Do you need some root canal?
Prophylaxis? Porcelain caps?
Bridgework to close up them gaps?
ers, are fiercely windshild-wiping 
the signs on their rrlgid chests, 
being sure to display the words 
which slander the merciless own­
er. A berserk sparrow, sitting on 
the lamp post, watches the snow­
flakes as they wink at him on 
their journey to the sidewalk and 
to death.
The electric billboard spells out 
the pageant of the Hungarian 
refugees, and the lights on top of 
a building tell the shoppers that 
the weather is going to be blue 
and flashing . . . Another bell 
sound! The red and yellow trolley 
wants a Volkswagon to get out of 
the track.
Maaaa . . . !
Standing painfully crosslegged 
a three-year-old girl tugs at her 
mother’s wool and orlon coat 
with an “if I do, you’re going to 
be embarrassed” look on her face. 
Mother, watching with glee the 
motions of animated dolls in a 
department store window, is bliss­
fully oblivious of her daughter’s 
plight.
I have everything I need now 
except for a bag of goodies for 
after crew. I fight the overpower­
ing smell of the popcorn and pea­
nut shop by concentrating on the 
rasping voice of a radio announc­
er spewing forth the glories of a 
cuckoo clock from the Black For­
ests of Germany. Wonder who 
cleans out the bird droppings 
from the clock’s works?
Cleveland Scots
Once again the Cleveland Clan 
is holding its annual Alumni- 
Student Dance during the Christ­
mas holidays. The setting for this 
year’s frolic will be the Hotel 
Manger ballroom, in downtown 
Cleveland on Friday, December 
28. '
Festivities begin at 9:00 p.m. 
with cocktails in the bar, and 
dancing to Hal Lynn’s Orchestra. 
As in the past, favors will be 
given out at the door (last year 
champagne was the treat.) The 
price of this evening of pleasure 
is only $2.00 per couple for stu­
dents and $5.00 per couple for 
alumni.
ASME
There will be a meeting for all 
members and prospective mem­
bers of ASME in the SIA Audi­
torium at 8:00 p.m. on Wednes­
day evening, December 19. A rep­
resentative of the Proctor and 
Gamble Company will speak, and 
refreshments will be served fol­
lowing the meeting.
FSEAA
The Frew Street Earthbound 
Aircraft Association will hold its 
first Sportsman’s Race in Thistle 
Hall at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday eve­
ning, December 18. Admission is 
free, and everyone, including stu­
dents, faculty, and staff, is invited 
to attend.
Civil Service
The United States Civil Service 
Commission has announced a new 
examination for dietetic intern 
training at Veterans Adminis­
tration Hospitals in th» Bronx, 
New York; Hines, Illinois; Hous­
ton. Texas; and Los Angeles, Cal­
ifornia. The pay for the intern­
ship is $2,000 a year.
Appropriate education is re­
quired. Full information regard­
ing the requirements and how to 
apply is available at many post 
offices throughout the country, 
and at the U.S. Civil Service 
Commission, Washington 25, D.C. 
Persons wishing to receive first 
consideration for appointment 
should apply not later than March 
15, 1957.
A Carrrpus-to-Career Case History
Merry Christmas to your teeth, 
And the rosy gums beneath.
He puts communications on the go

---------------------------------------------------

Txett 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 18, 195«
Mostly To Seniors-
When we first came to Tech, we were con­
fronted with a choice between becoming an 
active part in the network of organizations 
which allegedly make the campus function, 
and devoting ourselves solely to the social, 
intellectual, or academic phases of college 
life.
We didn’t sit down then to weigh each 
side of every action we took; we acted ac­
cording to circumstances of the moment, and 
most of us followed the pattern set then 
through the remainder of our college years.
Now, as seniors, we suddenly find ourselves 
to be Mitch Timinses and Tom Harrisons, and 
we ask ourselves if we made the right choice.
Activities people, overloaded with respon­
sibilities and frustrated in their attempts to 
find people to help bear the load, begin to 
wonder if perhaps the apathetic student 
wasn’t right all along. Wouldn’t life go on 
on just as well without Citcom and the ATO 
“B” team? In fact, would the campus suffer 
very much if the Tartan failed to come out 
every Tuesday afternoon? Probably not. And 
those who have defended this argument all 
along don’t, necessarily consider themselves 
apathetic.
The Nonparticipant’s View
Their position is something to this affect: The students 
who become involved in activities are those who feel the need 
for such organizations on campus. They are the ones who de­
rive benefits from them; the rest of the campus neither suffers 
from their absence nor benefits from their existence. The 
basic motivation for the active students’ persistence in these 
activities is prestige, and it is unfair for them to accuse non­
participants of irresponsibility merely because they don’t 
choose to join and to accept the responsibilities of the various 
organizations. The nonparticipants believe that their respon­
sibility to themselves is far more important, and possibly re­
gard the active members and leaders of organizations as fool­
ish and conventional. However, they are, for the most part, 
willing to let the others go their way as long as they are 
let alone.
The activities students, or campus leaders if you will, 
don’t deny all the accusations. It is true, that, looking back, 
they may feel that the frenzy with which they attacked the 
seemingly major campus problems was an unnecessary, 
possibly foolish expenditure of energy, and that these prob­
lems would probably have been solved anyway—if they 
hadn’t, the world wouldn’t have ended.
Students With A Cause
However, the campus leader feels that the college is so 
much the better having these problems solved, and having new 
problems to solve. Students need to rally about a cause, 
and without a defined outlet for the terrific energies of the 
students, these energies burst through by way of panty raids, 
et cetera. Having their potentially valuable efforts given di­
rection, whether in the “Y’s”, Student Council, or fraternal
otdrw
FOR THE HAPPY, WELL-AÜJUáTED 
COLLEGE STUDENT 
(A) <
lamecnI ”
IAM REáPONSlBLíFj
HAVE WE e»CTCM WASTING- OUfî. flNAe? BAUOTá 
MüáT &E ¿ícj»isAiTTeD -na us ¿seNioFLá on tbh 
BEFORE TUNE II, 19.3"1sn==rv
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8899; Executive Editor, MU 2-984«; Advertis­
ing Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa,
Managing Editor ........._.................................................. Stephanie Mackay
Executive Editer ......................................a......!.......................................... Robert Russell
Associate Editor ......... ........... ................... ............. .............. Marjo King
Associate Editor ......... ................................................................................................... Richard Fox
Basinesi Manager .................................................................................................... Robert Sorkin
Rogers. Photography Editor—John Austin, Art Editor—David Stea, Assistant Business 
Manager- Harley Bembach, Advertising Manager—Bill Mowry, Assistant Advertising 
Manager—Richard Grunauer, Circulation Manager—Alan Hodel, Secretary—Joan SeidelReporters: Carol Sooby, Lu Fields, Valerie Armitage, Lyn Carman, Linda Mac- 
Williams, Arthur Marino, Bob Jack, Gerald Ryder, Kay Melenyzer, Barbara Robe­
son Dorothy Cline, Ann Mehler, Susan Stryker, Don Davis, Gene Anderson, 
Deriny Brite, Esther Cohen, Alexia Baker, Barbara Krack, Terry Rudy, Nancia 
Redpath. Bob Gregory. Feature Writers: Jo Todes, Carl Arendt, A1 Federowicz. 
Sports Staff: Don McClelland, Tom Bieg, George Paris, Stan Zionts, Sherry Nie- 
mark Chuck Snyder, Fred Heider. Photographers: John Philbrick, Merrill King, 
Copy Staff: Ed Moisten, David Dull, Richard Wylie, Jack Walker, Walter Boehme. 
Art Staff: Carmen Martin, Edward Davin. Office Staff: Carol Rea, Jane Gross, Nancy 
Dereich. Nancy Edgar, Jeanne Lovrencic. Advertising Staff: Gilbert Friedman, 
Richard Boncuk, Arnold Kohn, Frank Zonis. Circulation Staff: Lee Adlesburg, Jay 
Abrams.____________________________________________.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press. •
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
organizations, the students feel that they are 
contributing to a worthwhile cause, no mat­
ter how banal it may appear to the outsider 
or even to the active seniors.
That honoraries and positions of increas­
ing responsibility are incentives is undeni­
able. Once these have been attained how­
ever, the campus leaders cannot wallow in 
their glory, but must be willing to accept the 
responsibilities which they have won. Aside 
from gaining valuable experience themselves, 
they feel they are contributing to the campus 
by providing activities for those who do want
to participate in them, as well as providing 
certain benefits for the inactive students.
Everyone who graduates from Carnegie 
Tech benefits from the reputation and pres­
tige of the school. An active and spirited 
school that has as well an excellent academic 
standing draws the better students, and it 
takes good students along with well-planned 
courses and progressive instructors to estab-' 
lish and maintain the reputation of the school.
The Value of Participation
Also, claims the student leader, the person 
who participates in activities acquires a 
sense of responbility toward the world which 
is invaluable after graduation. If the activi­
ties themselves are not of world-shaking im­
portance, the attitudes that they develop are.
Which brings us to the essence of the cam­
pus leaders’ position: they are very willing to 
admit that it is easier not to participate, and 
that they would benefit more by devoting 
a greater part of their time to their studies 
instead of to the job that someone else should 
have done but didn’t. They wonder at times 
if it is all worth it. There are many more 
jobs than people to fill them, but it just isn’t 
as easy as the nonparticipants suggest to m 
discontinue activities.
The campus leader seeing that the mate­
rial worth of college organizations in the 
world is negligible, still dedicates himself to 
activities, believing that the value of work­
ing with others and. accepting responsibility 
to the campus, even when, at times, that re­
sponsibility seems slightly ridiculous, is im­
measurable in preparing the student for the 
outside business world.
Of course, it is a matter of choice, and 
sinc^- that choice was made four years ago 
by most of us, it is rather late to change 
our attitudes now. We shall continue to ra­
tionalize to defend our own positions.
S.A.M.
Germany—
[continued on page S] 
policy since the emergence of the 
Bonn government in 1949. Ade­
nauer has been determinedly pro- 
western: he has given first place 
to the German obligation to the 
western European community of 
nations, including rearmament 
and participation in western de­
fense, with the promise to his 
people that the question of Ger­
man unification could best be 
solved first through alliance “with 
the West and then through nego­
tiations with Russia.
But this alliance stands upon 
considerably weaker foundations 
than originally envisaged. It has 
required a west German commit­
ment to rearm which is generally 
unpopular, and it has been un- 
'able to achieve anything so far as 
reunification is concerned. Next 
year, Adenauer’s policies come up 
for national approval in the par­
liamentary elections; the prog­
nosis for continued support of 
Adenauer’s party is highly un­
certain, because to many Ger­
mans, his leadership seems only to 
be perpetuating a divided nation 
and setting the scene for their 
homeland to be used as a battle­
field in the event of open conflict 
between east and west.
Nationalist Party Gains
Adenauer’s major political op­
ponents, the Social Democrats, 
doggedly continue to push a pro­
gram calling for primary em­
phasis upon reunification with a 
very hesitant look at rearmament. 
Oddly enough, in spite of their 
Socialist heritage of international 
ideals, the Social Democrats are 
becoming more and more a na­
tionalist party. Their program to 
discredit the internationalist aims 
of the Christian Democrats seems 
to be gaining in popular response.
At the end of October, in local 
elections in three of the German 
federal states, the Social Demo­
crats achieved notable gains, with 
significant implications for a pos­
sible victory over Adenauer in the 
national elections of 1957. But the 
Hungarian revolution and the vio­
lence of Russian retaliation, which 
have been widely publicized and 
seriously discussed in the German 
press, may stem the apparent turn 
of public opinion toward a party 
which believes it can achieve 
agreement with the Russians and 
preserve a free Germany.
Russian-held East 
In East Germany, eleven years 
of Russian influence have result­
ed in a strongly communized, but 
nominally independent state. The 
government, headed by old Ger­
man Communists who sought re­
fuge with Moscow when Hitler 
was in power, is a one-party 
“people’s democracy,” in which 
the Socialist Unity Party provides 
the sole avenue of political activ­
ity. The economy has not only 
been socialized, but has been ex­
ploited for Russia’s benefit.
The population, particularly the 
younger workers, has been sub­
jected to the same type of propa­
ganda the Nazis used — only the 
words are different. Young people 
who have proved themselves re­
ceptive to this indoctrination are 
rewarded by positions of respon­
sibility over their less-disciplined 
elders or contemporaries. A new 
army, the “People’s Police,” is 
backed up by a garrisoned Rus­
sian military power, presumably 
ready to deal with any threat to 
the established regime.
Questionable Future 
But deadening to individual
thought and action as the Socialist 
Unity Party is, East Germany is 
far from a compliant satellite. The 
widespread, spontaneous uprisings 
in Berlin and elsewhere in June 
1953 gave more than a hint of dis­
satisfaction and potential revolu­
tionary power; the continued flow 
of political refugees to the West 
gives added confirmation. It does 
not seem impossible that events 
may take a revolutionary turn in 
east Germany.
If a new popular uprising 
should occur, will the Russians at­
tempt to stamp it out with violent 
measures that are at their com­
mand, or will they grant conces­
sions, as in Poland? What would 
the west Germans be able to do to 
aid their compatriots? Is there the 
possibility, as some believe, that 
if both Russia and the United 
States reduce their respective 
spheres' of political and military 
influence in Germany, a basis for 
reunification may be achieved? Or 
will Germany’s future develop­
ment continue along its presently 
divided path, under continued 
domination in the East and sub­
ject to increasing nationalistic 
pressures in the West?
Unfortunately, the outlook for 
Germany must at the moment be 
expressed in questions rather than 
in declarative sentences, but the 
answers to some of these ques­
tions may become apparent before 
many more months have elapsed.
For Your Sorority And Fraternity Dances 
It’s The Greatest.
WALT HARPER’S Orchestra
For information call or write:
Walt Harper 
713 Clarissa Street 
Pittsburgh 19, Pa. 
MAyflower 1-5270

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, Decemner 18, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
Tartans Win Over Gannon; 
Then Lose To Pitt9 Geneva.
Gannon Easy Win A
i last Monday’s game at Erie, 
Pennsylvania, the Tartans romped 
over the Gannon College quintet 
to capture their third straight 
basketball victory, 72-63.
The Skibos jumped to an early 
lead which they maintained until 
they went to the locker room with 
a 39-28 half-time lead. The sec­
ond half presented more of the 
same with the Skibos increasing 
their lead to 20 points by the mid- 
pcir.it of the fourth quarter. At 
this time both teams sent in their 
reserves while Tech coasted to 
victory.
Leading the cause for Tech was 
Francis Miller, a reserve, who hit 
for 22 points. Although only a 
sophomore, Miller is in his second 
year of varsity ball. Runner up 
for point laurels was A1 Frank 
who scored 16 points.
^Statistics:
TECH G. F. P. I GANNON G. F. P
Sobolwski, f 4 2 10j Vilchinsky, f 5 6 16
Goetz, f 3 0 6| Isaacson, i 4 1 9
Frank, c 5 6 16 j Durkac, c 3 0 6
Ficery, g 10 21 Jowett, g 022 
Flynn, g 3 4 10| Jarvis g 10 2
Rupert, f 2 0 4| Andrews, f 3 2 8
Miller, f 10 2 22| Boudreau, f 1 1 3
Mueller, g 0 1 1| Densmore f 2 5 9
Densmore, g 0 1 liMinnicelli, c 0 0 0
Dobrian, g 0 0 OjVickey, g 10 2
| Griffin, g 10 2
| Fox, g 2 0 4
Total 28 16 72| Total .23 17 63Fiores by halves:
rCtech .................... 39 33—72
Gannon ............. 28 35—63
Personal fouls: Tech 15—(Ruper 3, So- 
bolewski 2, Goetz 2, Ficery 2, Dobrian, 
Flynn 4). Gannon 23—(Vilchinsky 5, Fox 
5, Jowett 4, Griffin 2, Jarvis, Boudreau
2, Andrews).
Missed free throws: Tech 20—Sobolew­
ski 5, Miller 4, Frank 3, Mueller, J. Dens- 
more, Flynn 6). Gannon 16 (Vilchinsky
3, Boudreau, Isaacson 2, P. Densmore 2, 
Griffin 2, Jowett 4, Jarvis 2).
Referee: Costin. Umpire: Brown.
Pitt’s Phenomenal 
Snots Beat Tech
By Stan Zionts
With a little help from Don 
Hennon, the Panthers rolled to a 
record-breaking 89-56 Steel Bowl 
victory over Carnegie Tech. The 
5'9" sophomore scored 30 of the 89 
points chalked up against the 
Scots.
e’tJhe first half showed two even­
ly matched teams fighting in a 
rugged contest. During the last 
few minutes of the half, the Pan­
thers pulled ahead and took the 
lead 36-28.
Hennon Stars
When the second half opened, 
Pitt just took off and couldn’t be 
stopped. Hennon, the star of the 
show, hit eight for eight in the 
first thirteen minutes of the half. 
T* whole Pitt team hit 17 for 19 
in the same period. The coaches 
of two other teams (Duquesne’s 
Dudey Moore and Tech’s coach Mel 
Cratsley) agreed that scoring per­
centages as exhibited by Pitt in 
the opening minutes of the second 
half were not only phenomenal, 
but unbelievable, even for a prac­
tice session!
High Scorers
Looking at the high scorers of 
thvr game, Hennon hit 13 for 19 
from the floor with four foul shots, 
giving him a total of 30. John 
Reiser scored 20 points with Bob 
Lazor and Harry Brautigam each 
adding 14 points.
For Tech, Frank Sobolewski 
and Charlie Goetz led the scoring 
with 16, with freshman Mike 
Flynn chalking up a total of 14.
PITT 89 G. F.P.|TECH 5« G. F. P. 
Pegues, f 1 0 21 Miller, t 10 2
Rir-fc f 8 4 20| Frank, t 0 3 3
LayTT, e 6 2 141 Sobolwski, c 7 2 16
Hennon, g 13 4 30[ Flynn, g 5 2 12
Hursh, g 
Markovich 
Brautigam 
Woznicki 
Sawyer Unev*
Iffter 
Cercene 
ZMo 
Dillon
0 2¡ Rupert, g 
0 2 Goetz 
2 14| Ficery 
0 0| Mueller
Doxtader
Totals 38 13 89 Totals 22 12 56 
Hal/time score: Pitt 36; Tech 28. 
Personal fouls: Pitt (12)—Pegues 3, 
Sir* Lazor, Hursh 4, Markovich, Brau- 
UgaL, Lester.
Tech (10)—Goetz 3, Frank, Flynn, So-
The final score was Geneva 89, 
Tech 86. High point man for Tech 
was Al Frank with o28* for Ge­
neva, Bill Blair with 27.
CARNEGIE TECH | GENEVA
G. F. T.| G. F. T.
Frank, f 10 8 28! Blair, f 8 11 27
Ficery, f 7 0 14| Clarke, f 6 2 14
Sobolwski, c 3 5 llj Tepavich, c 2 5 9
Flynn, g 5 1 ll|Swogger, g 4 11 19
Miller, g 2 0 4| Pritchard, g 3 0 6
Goetz, f 7 4 18j Schena, g 3 2 8
Rupert, g 0 0 0| Bernardi, g 3 0 6
Mueller, g 0 0 0| Sekeres, c 0 0 0
Dobrian, f 0 0 0|
Totals 34 18 8ß| Totals 29 31 89
Score at half: Tech 37; Geneva 33.
Fouls: Tech 26—Miller 4, Goetz 5, So­
bolewski 3, -Flynn 5, Frank 5, Ficery 3, 
Mueller. Geneva 23—Blair 5, Clarke 3, 
Tepavich 5, Pritchard 4, Schenz 3, Ber­
nardi 3.
Free throws missed: Tech 18—Goetz, 
Sobolewski 2, Flynn 7, Frank 8. Geneva 
14—Blair 2, Tepavich 3, Swogger 3, 
Pritchard, Clarke 3, Schena 2.
Officials—Pete Gallo and Cliff Fair.
In response to the cries of 
“Someone take that ball away,” 
Pitt’s Riser tries to do just that as 
Ficery attempts a lay up.
bolewski 2, Miller, Mueller, Rupert. Miss­
ed free throws—Pitt (4)—Riser, Lazor 
2, Hennon. Tech (7)—Frank, Flynn 3, 
Sobolewski 2, Rupert.
Referee — Tut Melman. Umpire — Red 
Mihalio.
Geneva Tops Tech 
In Double Oyertime
By Sherry Neimark
Last Saturday evening before a 
water - soaked but enthusiastic 
Steel Bowl crowd at the Pitt Field 
House, the Covies of Geneva, fully 
recovered from their setback at 
the hands of Duquesne the day 
before, handed Tech their second 
loss in as many days. The game 
was one of the most exciting (and 
disappointing) games ever seen by 
this reporter.
Tech moved to a halftime lead 
of 37-33 largely due to the outside 
shooting of Ken Ficery and Bud 
Miller and Ficery’s rebounding. 
Geneva’s classy ball handling was 
the highlight of the uneventful 
first half.
Second Half
Tech maintained their lead, 
which varied from two to eight 
points, throughout the second half 
until the final minute. With five 
seconds to go in the game, Geneva 
sank a basket to tie the score at 
69 apiece, having been behind by 
six points with only a little over 
a minute to play.
In the first overtime with Tech 
ahead by six points with only 40 
seconds to play, the fighting Cov­
ies once more staged a comeback 
to tie the score at 80 all. In the 
second overtime it was all Geneva.
Mermen Beat
Titans 44-42
By Chuck Snyder
In their second start of the sea­
son, the Tech swimming team de­
feated Westminster, at the latter’s 
pool, 44-42.
Tech led through ths first six 
events of the meet, until West­
minster took the first two places 
in the 200-yard backstroke to go 
into the lead at 31-30. The Tartans 
added sufficient points in the next 
two events, the 440 and the 200- 
yard breaststroke, to regain the 
lead and finish ahead of West­
minster who took the 440-yard 
freestyle relay, the final event of 
the meet.
In the eighth event Bob Shuck 
overcame a two length lead, held 
by Grip of Westminster, to finish 
second behind Tech’s Ross Engle- 
man. Dick Derringer and Dave 
Renshaw then placed first and 
third respectively in the 200-yard 
breaststroke.
The results of the Tech-West- 
minster meet are:
400 Yard Medley Relay—won by Tech 
(Hilles, Derringer, Harrington, Barlow.) 
Time 4:31.2.
200 Yard Free Style—won by Wessel 
(W); 2. Chamay (T); 3, Armour (W). 
Time 2:30.5.<JO Yard Free Style—won by Litch (T); 
2, Colman (W); 3, Goldman (T). Time 
0:30.5.200 Yard Butterfly—won by Harrington 
(T); 2, Stewart (W); 3, Long (T). Time 
2:56.2.
Dive—won by Abramovitz (W); 2. Pas- 
trick (T); 3. Davis (T). Points 55.16.
100 Yard Free Style—won by Colman 
(W); 2, Litch (T); 3, Wessel (W). Time 
0:58.2.200 Yard Backstroke—won by Keppel 
(W>; 2, Armour (W); 3, Hilles (T). Time 
2:33.6.440 Yard Free Style—won by Engleman 
<W); 2, B. Shuck (T); 3, Grip <W). 
Time 5:43.7.200 Yard Breaststroke—won by Der­
ringer <T); 2, Abramovitz (W); 3, Ren­
shaw (T). Time 2:50.1.400 Yard Relay—won by Westminster 
(Armour, Keppel, Wessel, Colman). Time 
3:50.8.
Sportòcome
By Tom Bieg
The difference between a good or a mediocre season for Tech’s 
basketball team may well be determined by the amount of support 
it gets at the home games.
Tech won three out of its first six games, losing to Penn State 
in the opener and succumbing to phenomenal shooting accuracy by 
Pitt, both after close first halves and both away, meanwhile defeat­
ing small Indiana State, Slippery Rock, both before small home 
crowds, and Gannon.
The Pittsburgh papers describe the Tartans as a team which can 
make up in “scrap” what it may not have in offense polish. Tech 
lived up to these notices in the consolation game of the Steel Bowl. 
Playing strong Geneva before a large crowd we went into overtime 
only because of a bad break, and eventually lost a heartbreak in 
the second overtime period.
The crowds at the two home games were disappointingly small. 
If a team leans heavily on its fight and spirit it surely can muster 
a lot more competitive spark with a large home crowd behind it 
than with a handful of interested observers. The next four home 
games are big ones—Westminster, who is quite strong, Wednesday 
night—Duquesne, weaker this year without Si Green, and whom 
we can beat for the first time since 1938, Friday night—and after 
vacation two return games, Penn State Saturday night and Geneva 
the following Tuesday. It’s demoralizing to play for enthusiastic 
crowds away and small crowds at home. These are all games we can 
win with enough support.
Tartans Host Titans And Dukes
This week the Tech hardwood- 
pounders play two home games to 
wind up their pre-Christmas 
schedule. On Wednesday night, the 
Tartan.«? host Westminster in what 
promises to be quite a contest. 
The Titans- hold the series lead
40-11 and Tech it out to avenge 
last year’s two losses.
On Friday night, Coach Dudey 
Moore brings his Dukes to the 
Skibo Gym. Tech has only beaten 
Duquesne 4 times in 29 tries, and 
this season, the prospects look 
somewhat brighter for the Scots.
Twice As Many Filters
AS THE OTHER TWO 
LARGEST-SELLING FILTER BRANDS
COMPARE!
ank Sobl ewsifmu wb your 
ewsifm iwdt hyfSfSpfm 
gi’f Snmf ewsifmu i’f 
uSnni’fm i’f iouifc.
Viceroy’s exclusive filter is made 
from pure cellulose-—soft, snow-white, natural!
«19M, Brown * WtttiaBMW jtcky lyR
On Gœ/y Cafnpus...Co/ieg&ßjkn
ICEROYS
are Smoother
BECAUSE ONLY VICEROY 
HAS 20,000 FILTERS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 18, 195«\
IT
Picked M.V.P
As a thrilling volleyball season 
came to a tumultuous climax this 
week, the intra-mural managers’ 
club found itself with the ex­
acting task of selecting all-league 
teams, an all school team, and a 
most valuable player. The stand­
out players made decisions very 
difficult, but after repeated ballot 
casting the club came up with 
these selections.
Most Valuable Player — Chuck 
Reese, SAE. Chuck, a senior, 
sparkplugged SAE thru the Kiltie 
League and the all-school cham­
pionship. The little man’s setting 
accounted for many scoring spikes 
and he was also a defensive ace.
All School Team
Achilles .......................................ATO
Fox ................................................SAE
Kovacik..........................Phys Grads
Pewitt .............................Phys Grads
Rees ..............................................SAE
Rugheimer......................Grad Iggles
Norm Achilles, also on the all 
school football squad, was se­
lected for his hard spiking for 
ATO. Dick Fox was SAE’s out­
standing spiker. Kovacik and Pe­
witt were the mainstays for the 
Phys Grads, championship run- 
ner-ups, and Mac Rugheimer’s 
rocketlike spikes led the Grad Ig­
gles to victory in the Tartan 
League.
Skibo League
Brand ..............................................TX
Dussair ............................................TX
Hammer .................................ATO-C
Harder ......................................AIEE-I
Mueller ............................................TX
Vodd ........................................Trojans
Plaid League
Alexander .....................Met Grads
Aust ..........................................SAE-B
Ayres ........................................ATO-B
Keyser ................................. Phi Kap
Sajovec ...................................SAE-B
Weber........................................SAE-B
Kiltie League
Fox ................................................SAE
Kovacik...............................Phys Grad
Pewitt .................................Phys Grad
Rees .............................................. SAE
Thomas ........................................ SAE
Visconti ...................................Phi Kap
Tartan League
Achilles ........................................ATO
Hoffman ........................................ATO
Kung ..............................Grad Iggles
Rugheimer......................Grad Iggles
Schorr ............................................ SN
Swaney ...................................... ATO
Ac tionT eh-PT
CHRISTMAS ?
86L0*)
* JL —
WHAT IS A ROBOT'S SMIie»WHAT IS WATER OVER THE DAMI
WHAT IS A GUY 
OF LUCKIES f
Dr.rC.rDu
Sluice Juice
BARRT PLOTNICIC^ 
U. Of VIRGINIA
FRANCES TYSON. 
COLUMBIA
WHAT IS A PERUVIAN CIRCUS ACT»A PLEASANT PRESENT like cartons of Luckies can make 
a dolly jolly or a pappy happy. And they’re just the 
things to cheer up a glum chum or a gloomy roomie. 
So the guy who gives loads of Luckies, of course, is a 
Proper Shopper. He appreciates Luckies’ better taste— 
the taste of mild, good-tasting tobacco that’s TOASTED 
to taste even better—and he knows others appreciate 
it, too. How ’bout you? Give loads of Luckies yourself!
Llama Drama"IT'S
TOASTED
to taste 
better!
WHAT CAUSES SEASICKNESS!WHAT IS A HUNTER’S DUCK OCCOYIWHAT IS A LOUD-MOUTHEO
Ocean Motion
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE. PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
SAE’S Win Over Physics Grads 
To Capture Volleyball Crown
By George Paris
A well coordinated SAE team smashed the Physics Grads 15-8, 
15-11 to win the coveted intramural as they took a quick lead in 
both contests and added to it to win.
Ironically, both finalists were members of the Kiltie League which
the Physics Grads had copped, but#------------------------ -----------  —— ---------
the SAE’s were too much to
handle in the finals as they re­
ceived beautiful sets from Rees 
and Thomas and smashed driving 
spikes from all-league Dick Fox.
Final play started last Monday 
with two teams representing each 
league. The Physics Grads and 
S AE's represented the Kiltie 
League; ATO and Grad Iggles, the 
Tartan League, Met Grads and 
Clyde Street AC, the Plaid 
League, TX and AIEE, the Skibo 
League.
Thrilling Semifinal
SAE drubbed TX 15-3, 15-1 in 
their initial contest. Then they 
fought the Grad Iggles down to 
the wire in one of the most thrill­
ing games of the playoffs. SAE 
won the first contest 15-11 but the 
Grads led by Rugheimer, Kerng, 
and Mitchell fought back to take 
the second set 15-12. The decid­
ing contest then went to SAE in 
a deuce match 17-15. This win put 
them in the finals.
The Physics Grads started by 
downing AIEE 15-6, 16-6 and then 
met ATO, conquerors of the Met 
Grads by 15-12, 15-0 scores. In a 
thrilling match the Physics Grads 
were victorious by 15-11, 10-15, 
15-3 scores, and gained a berth 
in the final.
Some excellent volleyball was 
exhibited in the playoff contest
IM Roundup
Water Polo
The water polo playoffs will 
begin January 10, with KS meet­
ing TX and ATO against SN. In 
last week’s battle for first place in 
the Wave League* ATO emerged 
the winner after a terrific game. 
The skill of the ATO’s proved too 
much for the strength of the KS’s, 
who were submerged 8-2.
Basketball 
The leagues have been set up 
for the basketball season, will 
start to play January 7. The IM 
department is taking steps to in­
sure competent officiating, and 
will conduct a clinic in January in 
the men’s gym. Every team must 
have at least one man present.
IM Board 
At the last meeting of the In­
tramural Board, it was decided 
that any organization switching 
names on their “A” and “B” teams 
or doing similar foul deeds with 
other teams will have their teams 
concerned eliminated from league 
play and will be required to pay 
the forfeit fee.
Bridge ¡>nd Table Tennis 
The matches in IM bridge and 
table tennis have been played off 
too slowly for prompt completion 
of the schedule. All teams con­
cerned should complete their 
matches as quickly as possible so 
that the playoffs can be held.
BOWLING 
Strikes League
W.L.Pts.
KS ____17
ATO .......................... 304
BSR ...24
SAE ...34
DU ____43
52
SN “B”................ 0
Spares League
30
DTD ..08
SN “A’*08
Obelisk34
TX ____34
PK .........60
BSR “B”60
High Game (Individual)
Norman—DU—218 
B. Alexander—ATO—217 
J. Alexander—ATO—292 
High Series (Individual) 
B. Alexander—ATO—565 
N orman—DU—528 
J. Alexander—ATO—523 
High Game (Team) 
ATO—886 
SN “A”—819 
SN “A”—787
High Series (Team) 
ATO—2391 
SN “A’'—2301 
DTD—2296
High Average
¦Total 
Games PinsAvg.B. Alexander—ATO3565188.33J. Alexander—ATO3523174.33Marik—SN “A”3512170.67MeFarlane—Obelisk61008168.00Hoffman—ATO3499166.33
Bulldogs Triumph 
Over GiffarVs 
In WAA Finale
On Thursday, December 13, the 
Women’s Intramural basketball 
season ended with a hard fought 
game between the Faculty Bull-^ 
dogs and the Giffaris. The Giffaris 
tied for second place, were unable 
to beat the undefeated Bulldog 
team. The final score of the game 
was 21-16. The team standings are 
as follows:
Team Wins Losses
Faculty Bulldogs ..70
Independents ....61
52
43
Chi O........................07
07
07
Swim Theme
Tarquans, Tech’s synchronized 
swimming club, has chosen the 
theme for its annual show. This\J1 
year, Tarquans will visit New * 
York City and see the sights of 
the town through the eyes of a 
young honeymooning couple. The 
show, which will feature diving as 
well as water ballet, will be pre­
sented March 15 and 16.
IM Volleyball 
All-Stars Chosen
Chuck Rees, S.A.E.,

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 18, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
fifcCAR\EG5M
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................................ Emily Muhic
Reporter ............................................................................. John Van Holt, Jr.
Five Initiated By Newman 
Aided By Reverend Berkmyre
Phi Gamma Pi 
Initiates Pledges 
At Carnegie Union
Phi- Gamma Pi Sorority held an 
initiation on December 9 at the 
Carnegie Union. The new pledges 
accepted into the sorority were 
Lorraine Hartz and Dru Caliguire. 
Marilyn Phipps and Emily Muhic 
were the big sisters who pinned, 
the girls. Mary Alice Peterson 
the pledge mistress, conducted the
ceremony and welcomed the girls. 
Mrs. Schwartz • and Mrs. Good- 
fellow spoke to the group and of­
fered words of encouragement. 
The group sang the Sorority Song 
which was written by Mrs. Good- 
fellow when' the group organized 
several years ago.
Ellen Gontner was in charge 
of the tea with Miss Peterson and 
Sandra Dunn assisting. Miss Gont­
ner also made the table decora­
tions and favors.
The next meeting will be held 
January 13, 1957 at the Carnegie 
Union from 2:00 to 4:00.
Essay-
Titled Americans
[continued from page 1] 
should relish the feature of this 
contest, which permits the entry 
of teams of two or three, as well 
as individuals.
The prizes are offered by an 
Alumni Fund, and consist of: first 
prize, $150.00; second prize, 
$75.00; and third prize, $25.00; 
and a prize of $10.00 to each of 
the other finalists. An information 
sheet providing further details re­
garding the contest is available at 
the office of the department of 
history, AH 132-A.
The Sacred Heart Community Center was the scene of a Com- 
nunion Breakfast and Initiation for new members of the Newman 
Club, on December 9. The group had attended 10:45 Mass and 
Communion at the Sacred Heart Church in East Liberty prior to
meeting. ?---------------------------------------------------------
Majetich
Yesterday
Typist ...........
Bookkeeper . 
Garbage Man 
Telephone Girl
Today Tomorrow
. Stenographer.................................Visual Transcriptionist
.Comptroller...........................Tax Avoidance Researcher
. Sanitary Engineer...............Excess Materials Manager
.Switchboard Operator. .Audio Connection Supervisor
Head Clerk.........Office Manager........................Coffee Break Coordinator
Pi Delta Epsilon
There will be a meeting at 
3:30, January 6, in the dorm 
council room. Committee re­
ports will be due then.
the
Vice President John 
welcomed the members and ex­
plained the purpose of the organ­
ization and presented the follow­
ing for the initiation: Nelson Nic- 
colai, Tom Bray, Martin Shiring. 
¿Elizabeth Bogus, George J. Sproat 
and Ed Bach.
President Dolores Neff spoke to 
the group and introduced the 
Chaplain, Rev. Regis Berkmyre.
John Spisak, replaced Fred 
Pope who was absent, and ex­
plained the meaning of the crest. 
Gene Dragojevich had made a 
large copy of the crest which was 
placed above a table featuring 
a statue of the Blessed Mother 
Jlurrounded by red roses and 
white carnations.
With a blessing by the chap­
lain, the ceremony was concluded 
and plans were discussed for the 
Christmas party to be held De­
cember 16 at the Majestic Gar­
dens.
The next meeting will be held 
January 13 and the nomination of 
new officers will be held. Dr. 
O’Neill will be the principal 
Speaker.
Evening Council 
Xmas Assembly
The Evening Student Council 
will sponsor a Christmas assem­
bly on December 19 at 8:00 p.m. 
in Porter Hall.
Singing of carols will be fea­
tured and Miss Ruth Shinn -will 
offer the invocation. Dean Cleeton 
will speak instead of Rev. Regis 
Berkmyre who, due to unforeseen 
circumstances, will not be able to 
attend.
Miss Dolores Neff will play the 
- organ.
All students and their instruc­
tors are urged to attend and 
make this a truly merry event.
? M •Epigrams
“Blessed are they that run in 
circles, for they shall be termed 
wheels.”
* * *
A sign on the back of a large 
truck announced, “To avoid that 
run down feeling, pass on the 
left.”
* * *
^Success is failure turned inside 
out,
The silver lining of the cloud of 
doubt,
And you never can tell how close 
you are.
It may be near when it seems 
afar,
So stick to the fight when you’re 
hardest hit,
Its when things seem worst, you 
mustn’t quit.
Vacation
Christmas vacation will be­
gin at 10:20 p.m. Thursday 
evening December 20. Classes 
will again resume on Thurs­
day January 3, 1957.
It Is hoped everyone will 
have a Merry Christmas and 
God’s blessings for a prosper­
ous and happy New Year.
What’s doing . . . 
at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft
THE HOUSE THAT 
JET ENGINES BUILT
Engineers and scientists at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft 
developed the piston engines that wrote aviation history 
for three decades. Then came the jet age, and again it 
was the P & W A team that came up with the mighty 
J-57, most powerful production aircraft engine in the 
world today. Behind such accomplishments, of course, 
stand many development tools...tools like the house that 
jet engines built: the Andrew Willgoos Laboratory. 
Located on the eastern bank of the Connecticut River 
in East Hartford, this windowless, thick concrete-walled 
laboratory has been growing almost continuously since 
its initial “completion” in 1950. As more powerful, far 
more advanced turbojet engines are conceived, the means 
for testing them in development stages must itself under­
go <?arefully calculated alteration. Hence, authorship of 
today’s specifications for Willgoos Laboratory properly 
belongs to the experimental engines it is testing today. 
Similarly, tomorrow’s proportions, capacities and equip­
ment will depend upon the requirements of tomorrow’s 
power plants.
Behind the ponderous walls of this multi-million-dollar 
structure lies the wherewithal to simulate many of the 
rigorous flight conditions to be encountered by military 
and commercial aircraft. The range of these conditions 
must vary from ambient pressures and temperatures in 
a static condition at sea level all the way to the pres­
sures, temperatures and high speeds involved in high- 
altitude flight.
This, then, is the house that jet engines built; at the 
same time, it is the house that tomorrow’s engines 
change and re-build.
-<1 — *5'. World's foremost 
' ’ »•' designer and builder 
of aircraft engines
PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION • EAST HARTFORD 8, CONNECTICUT

---------------------------------------------------

table cloth, a»d one ch^ir is left 
vacant for the ^ b>y Child. The SI 
Peace Wafell symbolizing Peace n 
on Earth is y>btainfed from the ^ 
prie§i and presented to jttic head c 
trf"the famibr to ©e y® the £ 
guests. Tlje Polish Christmas cen- tl 
ters around the songs which are e 
srytdmbination ct the religJVis 
and sftcular sentiments of thf stl 
people, sung in memory of the b 
'Saviour’s birth. \ \ a
Danube Blessutg V. r'n 
y» 'N^iile^fJ^eHrVmJi' ~
mas fc irtmiis ah hordes, >
the vfairier iignts a/candle while " 
h^chajiTts rOmwis Born^ Christ , 
i§ Btrfri!” Then ths famjftpteturn/. J 
the cKant Awth “Praise b». the
Christas Bom!’/f After\he ^ 
co^emony Christmas Eve dinner „
rage 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN-^-Tuesday, December 18. 195«
WINSTON heads the class on
Christmas-
-tContinued on Page 3] 
ing, gnoups o| men elaborately 
dressed, car^*e and sing from 
house to house in the *>«tH4ry of 
HollandpS^he afte 
gather iyad fridnds Y&&, and 
1y ther^, it skating on the 
In Belgium tfcte b^ils of the 5 
year-old-'' cathfedral^in Ant 
call th$ parishioners to ehuTch 
Christmas day. A large 
is developed in which 
and church digrtitaries in 
ments, ¿^anting religious^jio 
follow thfrjaymen to Mass.
St. Nicholas, or as he is^known 
in Switzerland as “Sami 
is portrayed by a young 
in each diocese who leads the' 
Cross Bearer and Banner 
through the streets of the villages. 
The Bishop, wearing a red jovi 
mask, white flowing beard, f 
trimmed robe, and a 
and staff, 
and
In eachr Fdbrfchjhome children 
arrange tne Nativity scene called 
a “crecha.” Age old hymn^ art 
sung, incense^ burned and bells 
ring. Following ^idnigh^1Mas*; all 
partake of “iWeHon”, a^focious 
meal of oysters, sjiUi^g«s, ^n 
special wines. ^ S / >
The Christmas tre^ ri&‘‘Tqrmen 
baum” was born in rmai
Preceding the midnights‘‘N«(cha 
Buena” Mass, the childi'©i\^f 
Spain dance around the Nativity 
scene to the beating of tambour­
ines.
Eclipsing the Christmas festi­
val in Italy is the feast of the 
Immaculate Conception, honoring 
the Virgin Mary. The folks of 
Italy parade in the streets and 
stop at each shrine to salute the 
Virgin and Child. The “Precipio,” 
truly symbolic of the Italian 
Christmas, is found in every home, 
consisting of tiny statuettes of the 
Holy Family, angels, sh 
and vfTSe men grouped at»«ui 
miniature-mangor1''^ (in 
St. Nick’s Cord 
A legend still believed 
Czechoslovakia is that St. Nick 
descends from Heaven on a gold­
en cord, led by a white clad an­
gel. The small children go to bed
Christmas Eve believing that on 
Christmas day thfcy will {find the 
presents left by the Good Saint.
In Polish homes, strqfw is plac­
ed uri^ffmEeT 
table cloth, a 
vacant for 
Peace Waf 
on Earth
{& pre
P&D Artist Guild 
Has Social Affair 
On December 14
The P and D’s heW/t^lil first 
social affair, sponaqfed by the 
newly organized Af'tkCs’ Guild, 
Friday night., I?«cerober 14. Co- 
chairmen Audfaijr Code and Glenn 
Hamm ueiLlft congratulated for 
„the large fcvjfnout and a very suc-
rnent was provided by 
Jjy several mem- 
an, sophomore 
"classes. The juniors did 
take-off of “The Shooting of
Chatham College 
rence Site
served.
antient,Jbu 
anian oostom 
e Danube^ The 
at the river 
is thrown into thi 
cuar of the cros/' is 
od fortune for th 
Following tfrp^midnigftt i Mai 
held on Christmas Eve, the Sicil­
ian parishioners form a pri 
sion led by the priest who carries 
a waxen image of the Ch^istV^liild 
through the streets
Fireworks in China 
Christmas in China .¿5 the /li- 
max of many da^of-jLenten Rep­
aration. On Christmas ^ay the 
Chinese announce the b^inninj 
with t/ bt^rst of firef- /
x>f
worn by tKe 
ildren as they 
after
being
melting pot of thejKorid, has in- 
¿1 of jf^eST cusloms and 
litions of foreign J»hds, just 
le CatholiWciwreii^ncludes 
various types ot cekiiialing 
1st is Born”.
Christmas is a joyous feast. It 
is one of gladness, one of true 
thankfulness for the coming of 
Christ the King.
Student Christian 
hold a national study 
conference at Chatham College 
from December 27, 1956 through 
January 1, 1957. The theme under 
study will be “The University 
od,” and the purpose of 
erence will be to study 
seeking God’s intent for 
ersity.
_ nference will be under
the direction of such able and 
ting leaders as: Dr. Walter 
Wolfgang M. Zuck- 
er, professor <5* philosophy at Up- 
SI* CUttese;, ! the Rev. Harry H. 
Kruener, flea* of the chapel, 
Denison University; The Rev. Ro­
bert Starbi|ck| associate director 
of United Student Fellowship at 
tennsylvanie State University; 
and The Re‘|r. William K. Laurie, 
director of IlFiited Christian Fel­
lowship at Kent State University.
The confei&nce is for interested 
faculty numbers, graduate, and 
undergradmat% students. The total 
cost, including room and board for
five dayfe anjKhe registration fee, 
J8J0O per person.
P{k’i Most Modern Dance Spot
P6H.°»*DANCE CLUB
“Moro Than Jnst * “ "
Sfierwyn Hôtel
"Mere Than Jnst A Ballroom1^ Wood St. and
Blvd. of Allies
FBI., OCT. IS—» P.M. to 1 A.M. 
And every Friday thereafter 
OBCHESTBA ^ Tech Invited
Dan Magrew.” The crowded con­
ditions in the elevators of the Fine 
Arts Building were depicted by 
the sophomores, and the freshmen 
won the prize for their clever 
skit, “Rebel Without a Car.” They
were presented with twenty new 
pencils.
The evening was concluded 
with refreshments-punch, which 
was served from an original light 
globe fixture.
Gocarôo^a. dxye¿
'ßo’t'ijov,, doUtit it?”
$witch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette I
flavor I
it. J. navHot-om 
TOBACCO CO.« 
WINSTON. SAL CM. ¦. C,
You feel so new and fresh and 
good—all over—when you pause for 
Coca-Cola. It’s sparkling with
quick refreshment... and it’s so pure 
x and wholesome—naturally friendly to your figure.
Let it do things—good things—for you.
• "• . ft
lomeo UNDER AUTHORITY Of THI COCA-COU COMPANY »?
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
57ÜS Central Are. HI 1-7011
"fok«H i» a mf“wuifmfT trade-mark. © 1954. THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
¦ Try America’s favorite filter smoke! 
You’ll like the full, rich taste. You’ll like 
the Winston filter, too. It does the job so
smoothly and effectively that the flavor 
really comes through — so you can enjoy 
it! For finer filter smoking, get Winston!
