The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 30CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1944
Faculty Members 
Welcome Frosh 
In Exhibition Hall
The Freshmen of all colleges were 
welcomed to Carne£ie last Friday 
night at the Dean’s Reception for 
the Freshmen. Lasting from 8:00 un­
til 12:00 P. M., the affair gave the 
new freshmen a chance to meet 
Dean Daniels, Dean of Men; Dr. 
Jones, Director of the College of 
Engineering; and Professor Kirk­
patrick of the English department. 
Members of the Cwens, Mortar 
Board, Y-Cabinet, and Alpha Phi 
Omega acted as ushers and usher­
ettes.
The dramats sponsored an enter­
taining program, but before it was 
presented, the Carnegie Tech cheer 
leaders, Jacqueline Alexander, Irene 
Surenda, Richard Huntoon, Richard 
Eschenbach, and their leader, Augie 
Binder, ran through a few Carnegie 
songs and cheers. The program 
started with the Mistress of Cere­
monies, Marcia Wachter, welcoming 
the Freshmen and introducing Car­
negie’s Instrumental Trio, Bob 
Kelly, Bob Forsythe, and William 
Stroheckef, who played a few popu­
lar songs. Next on the program was 
“The Waltz” by Pat Falkenhain, 
which amused everyone for a full 
fifteen minutes. Then came a new 
singer, Corrinne DeChicchis, a 
freshmen in Architecture, who sang 
“Summertime” and “Stormy Weath­
er.” She was warmy welcomed and 
her talents were displayed in a pro­
fessional manner.
After the program, the freshmen 
who were lucky enough to corner a 
male danced the rest of the evening 
away to music furnished by a six- 
piece band from the Music depart­
ment. Refreshments were served 
and the evening came to an end 
when most of the men disappeared.
Committee Plans 
Next Assemblies
The hunt for good assemblies is 
on. With complete responsibility in 
their hands, the six assembly com­
mittee members have drafted a pro­
gram for the first semester. Basing 
their selections upon the Tartan 
poll results, Adele Bauer, M. M. and 
Melva Brooks, F. A., representing 
ACAC, Paul Gibian, representing 
Inter-Fraternity Council, and Len- 
ore DeWall, Panhellenic Inter-Sor- 
ority, Ernie Lowenstein, Tartan, 
and Tom Bokman, Engineering, 
Continued on Page 3
2600 Fill Gym, MakeBenefit Huge Success
Notice
All petitions for the following 
offices must be in Mr. Daniel’s of­
fice by September 29: Assistant
Secretary to A. C. A. C.; Engineer­
ing Secretary to A. C. A. C.; two 
Arts school representatives to A. C.
A. C.; Senior class representative to 
Senate from Margaret Morrison; 
and all the officers for the Fresh­
man .and .Sophomore .classes .of 
Margaret Morrison. .Election day 
will be October 6.
Crowd Mobs Household Home Booth
New brooms always sweep clean, 
it is true, but after attending the 6 
for 1 Benefit on Saturday afternoon 
and night, everyone is convinced 
that the Women’s organization of 
Carnegie Tech can deteriorate very 
much before ceasing to be a tre­
mendously valuable addition to C.
I. T. The unprecedented and unex­
pected success of the affair surpris­
ed and delighted all present, and 
everybody was full of praise for the 
spirit of cooperation shown by the 
Carnegie women.
The benefit was held in a hall 
which by its location only was rec­
ognized to be our Gym. Its walls 
and steelgirders were hidden by 
large murals of the American col­
lege girl from 1900 to 1970. Where 
usually sweating boys exercise and 
chase after a basketball, two hun­
dred-eighty bridge tables and four 
times as many ladies changed the 
Gym into a super-sized livingroom, 
authentic even to the extent of 
“lamp” shades of cream-colored 
cardboard around the main baskets. 
Across from the scoreboard the 
Dramats had erected a large stage; 
the boxing ring was hidden behind a 
large, grey velvet curtain, and the 
opposite end of the hall was occu­
pied by several gaily decorated 
booths, which we shall describe 
presently.
After completing a tour of the 
shnns. the ladies settled down for a
few rubbers of bridge in the Gym, or 
a game of Bingo in the equally deco­
rated Thistle Hall, and for a while 
the only sound in the Gym was that 
of any Saturday afternoon ladies’ 
bridge—only more so—until Mas­
ter of Ceremony Professor Norman
H. Dawes stepped on the stage, pro­
claimed a cessation of hositilities 
and announced the beginning of the 
entertainment.
The next eighty minutes were so 
filled with fun and music that we 
hardly know how to start our de­
scription. By far the best, if no the 
most artistic act was the perform­
ance of the 6-for-l Sextet, six hams 
named Bob, Bob, Robert, Web, Joe, 
and Maxie; otherwise known as 
President Doherty, Professors Mehl 
and Schmertz, Director Jones, Pro­
fessor Ellis, and Maxie Hannum. 
They delivered a song-banjo-harmon­
ica-whistling routine which wowed 
the audience, and kept the artists on 
the stage for many encores. Aside 
from Mr. Symbali, of the Pittsburgh 
Savoyards, who rendered Gilbert 
and Sullivan’s immortal “John Wel­
lington Wells” from the operetta 
The Sorcerer, and Music department 
alumnae Mrs. Chadwick, who de­
lighted the audience with two songs, 
the remainder of the program was 
enacted entirely by our students. 
The dramats, led by C. I. T.’s fore­
most comediene, Prissy Dodge, en- 
Continued on vaae 4
Tuneful six blending as one, Bob Mehl, Max Hannum, Bob Doherty, 
behind the banjo, Robert Schmertz, Web Jones, Joe Ellis.
Intramurals 
Open Season
The deadline date for the intra­
mural touch football league entries 
has been postponed to October 6 to 
allow time for several more teams 
to enter.
Five teams are necessary for the 
awarding of prize cups and keys, 
while only four groups are in exist­
ence, all fraternity teams. No more 
than 12 men may constitute a team. 
Games will be played on the soccer 
field.
Suggestions by Intramural Board 
for the 1944-45 college sports pro­
gram extend the season from Octo­
ber to July. The probable schedule 
is as follows:
Touch Football — October 5—No­
vember 3.
Volley Ball — November 6—^ De­
cember 8.
Basketball—February 10—March 
23.
Softball—June 11—July 27. 
Bowling—February 10—March 24. 
An individual sports program is 
considered as follows:
Handball — October and Novem­
ber.
Table Tennis—April and May. 
Tennis—May and June.
Horseshoes—May and June.
Paddle Tennis—June and July. 
Foul Shooting—January.
Proi. C. Pearson 
Heads Music Dpt.
Assistant Professor Charles A. H. 
Pearson, a graduate of Carnegie 
Tech and a member of the C. I. T. 
Music Department faculty since
1924, is now Acting Head of the 
Music Department. He fills the va­
cancy created when Dr. J. Vick 
O’Brien, founder of the department 
in 1912 and its head for thirty-two 
years reached the retirement age 
this summer.
Professor Pearson received an A.
B. degree from Carnegie in 1921 and 
an A. M. degree in 1922. During 1923 
he studied organ with Charles Marie 
Widor and Henri Libert at Fon­
tainebleau and Paris. He began in­
structing at Tech the following 
year. Now he is teacher of the large 
number of organ students in the 
Music Department, besides teaching 
courses in Harmony I, History of 
Music, and Analysis of Form. Pro­
fessor Pearson has been teacher of 
Organ since 1941 when he succeed­
ed Dr. Caspar Koch, with whom he 
had studied.
Mr. Pearson has been organist 
and choir director at Rodef Shalont 
Temple for twenty years. He is u 
member of the American Guild ol 
Organists and the Musicians’ Club 
of Pittsburgh.
Dr. O’Brien is as familiar a part 
of the Music Department as he has 
been since its founding. He still is 
director of the Carnegie Tech or­
chestra and professor of advanced 
harmony and composition.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1944
The Outlook . • •fsdUtoni AnsncUaisi
Our Sympathies
The staff of the Carnegie TARTAN expresses its deep sympathy to Ade­
line Herlick and her family at the loss of her father.
Fraternities, Pro and Con
In its recent special “A Letter to the GI’s” issue, Life made a state­
ment which must be extremely alarming to all fraternity men on this or 
on any other campus. Answering the question, “What plans have the 
schools for veterans,” the magazine, in a brief discussion of the veteran’s 
needs and desires concerning post war schooling, mentioned that “They 
(i. e. the veterans) resent fraternities which they consider childish.”
This challenge must be a rude awakening for but too many of today’s 
fraternities whose members consider college a glorious opportunity to 
have a whale of a good time at their parents’ expense. The days of raccoon 
coats and open galoshes are gone, but far too many frat men have simply 
abandoned these old-fashioned garments for modern sport jackets and sad­
dle shoes. They are not mature enough to realize that the times call for 
a change in attitude, not a change in clothing.
Many persons, students and adults alike, condemn fraternities en­
tirely, refusing to believe that such an organization can ever be anything 
but a rich man’s place of wasteful and immoral leisure. Most fraternity 
men, however, including this writer, cannot agree with this. They joined 
a fraternal organization, not because they merely desired fun and frivol­
ity, not because they had too much money to spend and considered this 
an excellent way to do it, but because they honestly believed that frater­
nity life of the good type would teach them an invaluable lesson, a lesson 
which would profit them for the remainder of their career.
A fraternity as it should be, and as it is, to a gratifying degree, on this 
campus, is truly a great asset to a college student. It is no more, and often 
even less expensive than a dormitory or boarding house, and thus brings 
him together with boys of all social “classes,” boys older and younger than 
himself, boys hailing from all parts of the country. He will be closely as­
sociated with students who earn most or all of their way through college, 
and with others who receive abundant allowances from home.
There is hardly a necessity to stress the importance of this fact. The 
most die-hard antagonist of fraternities will admit that this is democracy 
in its most basic form. This complete integration of the various elements 
of our population (with one exception, to which we shall refer later) is 
what this country has been attempting for centuries, and in which it has 
not made much progress.
But a good fraternity will teach its members more than this. Most 
frats are run by their student members with little or no assistance by 
adults, run, everyone will readily admit, with remarkable ease and ef­
ficiency. The treasurer of the fraternity, a boy of nineteen or twenty, 
handles several thousand dollars every month; the steward plans meals 
for twenty or thirty boys, and often buys the food himself, the houseman- 
ager (or whatever else he is called) must see to it that a fraternity house, 
usually a very large building, is kept in good condition. In addition to 
this the regular meetings of the members, run in most fraternities in a 
completely democratic manner, give everyone a voice in the administra­
tion of the fraternity affairs, the planning of social events, and many other 
matters. Who would deny that a student can derive invaluable benefits 
from this?
Unfortunately we have to repeat that all this pertains only to good 
fraternities, far too few in number. There are still many fraternities 
which retain the Joe College rah-rah spirit of bygone days, and they ex­
pect nothing but contempt, not only from returning soldiers, but from 
everyone. Let Life’s statement be a challenge to these organizations. They 
must realize that their attitude must change with the times, that they 
have an inescapable duty to perform, and that, if they fail in this, they do 
not only harm themselves, but all other fraternities as well.
In closing, we would like to add another opinion, in spite of its fu­
tility. We, in this country, proudly mention our democratic way of life, 
our constitutional equality of all races and creeds. And yet we retain an 
institution so undemocratic, so conducive to discrimination and prejudice, 
that it cannot be found in any other country, Canada excepted. In spite 
of all our “ideals” and “principles” there still exists sectarian fraternities. 
There is no reason, other than narrow mindedness, for a segregation of 
Catholics into a Catholic fraternity, Jews into a Jewish one, sometimes 
even Protestants into a Protestant organization. And why, if we believe in 
democracy, should fraternities ban colored persons? Do they agree with 
the leader of the Philadelphia street car strike that all Negroes have bed­
bugs? Someday a fraternity will have the spirit and courage to denounce 
all these bigotries, and admit into its ranks boys from all creeds and races. 
We wonder when. ____________________________________________________
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the itaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute «f Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PIONI MAYFLOWER *600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4M?
NMMWTIO FOR NATIONAL ADVIHTItlNH BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publisher* Representative 
420 Madison avi. New York. N. Y.
CMC MO ' ftOCTO« • LO« AMILI* ' SA* FSAOCISCO
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Clüef .............................EM. 9424
Business Manager..........................EM. 9424
What is the first thing that comes 
to mind when we are asked how Hit­
ler was elected? To the mind of 
many of us comes the picture of the 
German ballot on which there was 
only one choice — that being the 
right to vote—YES. The fact that 
we are fighting against this aspect 
of fascism is most clear to us. Is it 
clear, however, that each voting 
city of this country who does 
not register now for the coming 
election is voting another YES for 
Hitler? We must realize that the 
indolent and the apathetic by their 
inaction are saying that democracy 
is not working—that our system of 
government is too much of a bother 
—that we’d rather have a dictator­
ship.
If you are of voting age it is your 
privilege and duty to vote in the 
coming election—Don’t vote against 
yourself by failing to register.
Many of us may feel that this does 
not refer to us since we are not of 
voting age. That is a fallacy. We 
as the youth of this country have a 
stake in the future that will be de­
cided in the November election — 
the future not only of the next four 
years, nor even the future of Amer­
ica alone, but the future of the 
world.
It is our responsibility, therefore, 
to understand the issues involved in
• • • x».*
The meeting was called to order at 
5:00 p.m.Present: Messrs. Daniels, Bokman,
Snow, and Vaughan; Misses Barclay, 
Bauer, Brooks, and Garland.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Publications
Mr. Bokman submitted a list of mem­
bers of the Technical staff who were 
eligible for activities keys and also a list 
of members of the Tartan staff who were 
eligible for activities keys. It was de­
cided that since these lists were not com­
plete, A.C.A.C. would not approve them 
until the complete lists were obtained.
Athletics
Mr. Snow, president of Intramural 
Board, reported that Mr. Risedorf is the 
new faculty advisor of Intramural Board. 
The Board has formed a football league 
for this season. The entries are due at 
the Intramural Office, September 22 at 
5:00 p.m. There will be six to eight 
teams for civilians, but the starting date 
for the games has not been set. The 
Army is conducting a separate league 
under the supervision of Mr. Moses and 
Mr. Risedorph.
Budget
Mr. Daniels announced that some of 
the budgets for this year have not been 
submitted to his office. It was decided 
that the Chairman of the Budget Com­
mittee would be elected after all repre­
sentatives to A.C.A.C. have been selected.
Elections
Mr. Bokman reported that no an­
nouncement of the coming elections was 
made in the last edition of the Tartan, 
but that the next Tartan would carry 
this announcement. The petitions will be 
due September 29, in Mr. Daniel’s office, 
A. H. 162, at 4:00 p.m., and Election Day 
was set for October 6 from 11:00 a.m. to 
2:00 p.m. All elections will be conducted 
by A.C.A.C., and polls will be located in 
the Arts School, Engineering School, and 
M.M.C.C. It was moved that Mr. Bok­
man should be appointed chairman of 
election procedures and should appoint 
members of A.C.A.C. to assist him at the 
polls.
Motion carried.
Old Business
Mr. Bokman suggested that an in­
ventory be made of the permanent dec­
orations which belong to A.C.A.C. before 
procedures re-established for their use by
by Aggie Aronson
this election—To look not only to 
the platforms of the two parties, 
and/or to the speeches made by 
the candidates—but to their deeds 
prior to the campaign speeches. We 
do not want to stake our future on 
promises, we must see if the candi­
date’s past policies indicate that he 
is capable of fullfilling his prom­
ises.
We must use the education that 
we have been afforded. Our studies 
of the last war were not made to 
please our History or Social Rela­
tions professors. They were made 
to give us background of present 
day affairs. We must look back to 
that study—think about it. Think 
about Wilson and his post-war prob­
lems of the peace settlement. Then 
we must think of the problems 
which face us; relate them to the 
one of the 1918 congress.
Even if we are not of voting age, 
certainly we know people who are. 
They must be registered for the 
coming election for our benefit; and 
for our benefit they must be in­
formed of all the implications of 
their vote. We must urge them to 
register, and in the coming weeks 
before election we must help them 
understand the policies involved. 
We must do these things if we don’t 
want to see the 1964 class of C. I. T. 
accelerated because of World 
War III.
Minutes...
student organization. It was moved that 
Mr. Snow be appointed to make this in­
ventory.
Motion carried.
New Business
It was moved that Miss Brooks should 
serve as the Arts School representative 
from A.C.A.C. on the Assembly Com­
mittee.
Motion Carried.
Miss Barclay suggested that an Assist­
ant Secretary to A.C.A.C. be elected on 
October 6. It was decided that this posi­
tion should be filled by either a Junior or 
Senior and considered as and all-school 
election. This new member will be a 
non-voting member as long as the present 
incumbent is in office.
The next meeting of A.C.A.C. will be 
on Wednesday, September 27 at 5:00 p.m. 
in the Conference Room of the Union.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Bernice Barclay, 
Secretary.
Student Employment
Attention: All students who had sum­
mer employment. It is very important 
for all students who had summer em­
ployment to see Mrs. Major in the Em­
ployment Bureau office as soon as pos­sible.
Boys:
Work during holidays as a railway 
mail clerk.
Parking lot attendant to work from 7 
to 11 in the evenings at 50c an hour.
Husky boy to be employed by a recap­
ping and vulcanizing company. As a be­
ginner the pay is 50c an hour with an 
increase in salary as more experience is 
gained.
Girls and Boys:
Two Pittsburgh department stores will 
employ boys and girls at hours which are 
suitable for the student.
Girls:
Florist Shop in East Liberty wishes to 
employ a girl to answer the telephone 
only from 6 to 9 in the evening, 4 or 5 
days a week at 50c an hour.
Girls who wish to take care of children 
should inquire and apply at Mrs. Major’s 
office.
|atm4 as Faaculta matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March S, 1870. PibiiikW weekly daring school rear, except holidays and examination periods. 
_________________________________Subscription Price $1.10 per year._____________________________________
Editors-in-chief.......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
One of the Boys. . . On The Campus
Always on the job, the man behind 
the scene, never in the spotlight but 
always just behind those in it. 
That’s Mike Riggle. Mike’s not as 
much in the background, though in 
his position as Business Manager of 
all publications.
Keep this under your hat, but 
Mike’s favorite pasttime is sleeping 
—not with his feet on a desk or his 
arms piling over his books, mind 
you, but in bed. He won’t admit all 
this but came fairly close when he 
says he likes nothing better than 
“sitting in Publications Office with 
my feet on my desk.”
Mike, now a senior in the chem­
ical department, could say no more 
about being promoted to the senior 
class than “I’m just plain tired!” 
Graduation date is in “April, I 
Hope.”
Hailing originally from Paines- 
ville, Ohio, John now calls Alexan­
dria, Va., his home. His startled
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
. . . Mike Riggle
cry first pierced the ear drums of his 
folks in February, 1924.
Mike, or John as his parents orig­
inally dubbed him, is quite an am­
bitious fellow. After he receives 
his B. S., he plans to continue 
taking graduate work in general 
chemical engineering; Then he 
wants to get a job as chemical engi­
neer for a big chemical company. 
His good work has merited for him 
membership in Theta Tau.
Spike Jones and his City Slick­
ers and “Sinatra, him too, take the 
cake for his ‘corn’ music.” Mike 
really goes in for waltzes; his fav­
orite piece is the “Anniversary 
Waltz.” Abe Lyman, his favorite 
band, really sends thrills up and 
down his back.
Among his favorites are many un­
usual, things. For instance his fav­
orite food is egg plant! (Ugh!) His 
taste in books is for those by Sin­
clair Lewis. The 1500 Club is just 
about tops for him in the way of ra­
dio programs, and William Powell 
and Greer Garson win his Oscars 
every time. “The Man Behind the 
Scenes” readily agreed that his fav­
orite subject was organic chemis­
try. But in regard to his “unfavor­
ite subject” the best he could say 
was “This presents difficulties; I re­
fuse to answer that for diplomatic 
reasons.”
“One last word,” he said, “come 
out for publications.” And then as 
a warning he topped it off by stat­
ing that his pet peeve was “people 
who go out for activities and don’t 
finish what they start.”
Notice
There will be a meeting of the 
TARTAN business staff at 7:00 P. 
M. Friday, Sept. 29. Every person 
in the business department re­
quired to attend.
Informal Dancing
Starts
Saturday, Oct. 7th
and
Every Saturday Thereafter
85c per person plus tax
HOTEL SCKENLEY
PROTECT SOUR HOME PROMTUBERCULOSIS j
• ali M IJL.&.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Big question! How in heck did all 
those upperclassmen get into the 
Freshman Reception? Believe the 
girls would have appreciated a few 
more—about 6 to 1—I love ratios 
like that!
Tom Bokman was making some 
head-way Friday nite!
Jim Stone made Cookie feel a lot 
better via letter (he’s a former 
Techite in the Navy) “Hell no, 
Cookie, I don’t care if you date 
‘Ears.’ Honey, college is the time to 
have fun—go to it!”
Assembly...
Continued, from page 1
have so far set up the following
schedule.
Sept. 26 M. M. Senate Traditions 
Exam for Freshmen.
Oct. 3 No assembly — Registra­
tion for Engineers.
Oct. 10 Chapel.
Oct. 17 M. M. Senate Color Day.
Dr. Watson speaking.
Oct. 24 Chapel.
Nov. 7 Chapel.
Nov. 21 Carnegie Birthday Cele­
bration.
Nov. 28 Chapel.
Dec. 12 Christmas Chapel.
Every member of the committee 
is responsible for obtaining material 
for at least one program. All mem­
bers, however, must approve his 
plans and preparations.
Although complete responsibility 
for these programs rests with the 
committee, an advisory board con­
sisting of Dean Daniels, Dr. Gregg, 
and Dr. Schultz, has been set up.
Assemblies will be made more of 
a campus affair. In addition to the 
scheduled program, CIT songs will 
be sung at the beginning and ending 
of each program.
by Jack Logue
Hear the Beta’s had a big time at 
Birch Hall on their serenade. Why 
doesn’t someone contribute soine 
money for a few window shades.
Myrle Bates has a beaut of a dia­
mond from her A. S. T. P. man, 
Johnny Murphy.
Sue West has been dating our 
new Southern boy — “Smokey” — 
Umm—Hot stuff!
Dottie King’s one and only was 
seen around campus with her last 
week.
Williard Hines—Delt pledge dra- 
mat transferred from engineers—is 
quite the wolf around the gals so it 
seems.
Who is Kathrine Reddings A. S. 
T. P. man? Come on Kay—let us in 
on the big secret.
Did anyone hear about Louise 
Koenig’s trip to Annapolis? It 
should prove an interesting story.
Sue Thompson seems all 
broken (?) since her man of last 
year left to join the ranks of Uncle 
Sam.
See you ’round—Logie.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT s 
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
“THE BEST-KNOWN VEHICLES IN AMERICA"
What’s the best known vehicle on your college campus? You will 
probably agree it’s the Railway Express truck. And one of the best- 
liked men is the dependable Expressman who drives that truck.
There’s a good reason why these trucks are on the campus so fre­
quently. It’s to serve your shipping needs. Express Service is a strong, 
direct link with home.
Railway Express and its coordinated Air Express Division are 
carrying a substantial shipping load these busy days. You can help the 
Expressman and his vehicle do their job quicker and better by observ­
ing three simple steps: Wrap your laundry or other packages securely 
... address each clearly... ship them early. We know "A shipment 
started right is half-way there."
^
NATION-WIDERAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

4THL CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1944
More Benefit Crowds
Continued from page 1 
tertained us with the old but excel­
lent parody of military drill, and 
our perennial favorite, the song 
about Mabel, the horse with the 
hansome behind. John “The Croon­
er” Elliot, normally Alumni Secre­
tary, looking extremely alluring in a 
bathing suit of 1900 vintage, played 
and sang Father Time in “Bathing 
Beauties,” a show of beach apparel 
from 1900 to 1948, modelled by six 
Carnegie belles. A fitting touch of 
patriotism was injected when three 
alumnae, a WAC, a WAVE, and a 
Lady Marine, marched on the stage 
to the strains of their respective 
hymns, and the applause of the 
audience. The latter was evoked al­
so when President Doherty, in his 
opening talk, welcomed Mrs. Ham- 
merschlag, the wife of our first 
president.
More than to anyone else, the 
credit for this must go to Mrs. Win- 
throp Slocum, who was in charge 
of everything. One can only guess 
at the number of hours Mrs. Slo­
cum spent in the organization and 
preparation of the benefit, and she 
certainly has earned Carnegie 
Tech’s deep gratitude. We cannot 
enumerate all the other persons 
who have helped to make the event 
a success, but we feel that specific 
mention should be made of Miss
Fort Pitt is the Place
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Eulelia Eckstein, who designed and 
supervised the decorations, Mr. 
Larry Miller, the man who did the 
“dirty” work; Mrs. Edward Chaffey, 
in charge of publicity, and creator 
of 85 posters; Miss Doris Meyers, 
who made the aides’ pinafores; the 
Chi Omegas, for their Christmas
Mrs. Doherty, Mrs. Thorpe, and 
Mrs. Slocum
box booth; the members, alumnae, 
and sponsors of Kappa Kappa Gam­
ma, for their generous donations in 
addition to their cooperation; and of 
course all the artists, the aides, the 
Cv/ens and Mortar Boards, soror­
ities, and all the women’s commit­
tees by whose work this benefit was 
made possible. To all of them our 
sincere gratitude.
24 HOUR 
SERVICE
— ON —
BLUES 
O. D.’s
SUITS AND 
COATS
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET
The Plaid
Royal York Scene 
Of Insignia Dinner
The Twentieth Annual Insignia 
Award Dinner, held at the Royal 
York Dining Room on July 19, prov­
ed to be an event befitting the occa­
sion. This banquet, as you all know, 
is held each year in honor of the 
students who have earned sufficient 
points for participation in extra­
curricular activities to merit an in­
signia award. At this Twentieth An­
nual Dinner, twenty-three of the 
students enrolled in Carnegie Tech 
Evening School for the past year 
were invited to attend. The faculty 
guests were Major Stanton, Mr. El­
liott, Dean Daniels, Dr. Jones, Dean 
Yon, Mr. McKelway, and Mr. Shaf­
fer.
A very appetizing chicken dinner 
was thoroughly enjoyed by every­
one present.
Toastmaster of the banquet, Al­
bert Flanders, the former President 
of Evening Student Council, intro­
duced the faculty guests, each of 
whom addressed the awardees. 
Many encouraging remarks were 
made as to the development and 
progress of Carnegie Tech’s Evening 
School.
The awardees graciously accept­
ed Mr. Flanders apology in behalf 
of the jeweler, who was unable to 
complete the insignia keys in time 
for the banquet. Certificates for 
third year awards were presented to 
Edward Macha and George Riffle; 
Albert Flanders and Harold Park 
received certificates for fourth year 
awards. Steve Marcinizyn and Ches­
ter Biscup were both presented with 
a set of cuff links and a tie holder 
for their eighth and ninth awards 
respectively.
As a climax to the evening, Mr. 
Edward McDonald was given recog­
nition for his twentieth award, and 
was presented with an engraved 
leather zipper case.
The scholarship award for the
New Registration 
Shows Slight Gain
Although the enrollment this year 
has decreased, it will probably be 
greater than the enrollment at the 
end of the first semester of last year. 
Last year the school lost a number 
of students to the Armed Services, 
but this year due to the average old­
er age of the fellows attending, we 
are more likely to maintain the 
same roll as we now have.
New registrants will have to re­
member that these lean years are 
the cause of the lack of excitement 
and social activities that prevailed 
here at Tech when the prewar reg­
istration reached a peak of 4022 in 
1936-37.
It is the general opinion on the 
Campus that the bottom of the 
curve has been reached and that 
from here on, the enrollment will 
increase until Tech Evening School 
will again register 4000 or more stu­
dents.
Here are the statistics for the first 
semester registration:
College of Engineering................409
College of Fine Arts ...................239
General Studies ........................... 61
Margaret Morrison ..................... 48
previous year was merited by Jo­
seph Rymar.
Let us hope that during the com­
ing year, the Evening Student Coun­
cil will find many willing and inter­
ested workers among those of you 
who have enrolled this year, and 
that you will even surpass the effort 
shown by the people who partici­
pated in Evening School activities 
last year.
Workers Are Needed 
To Carry On Activities
Now that the business of regis­
tration is out of the way, and the 
business of becoming acquainted 
with other students is foremost in 
the minds of new evening students 
here at Tech, we of-the Plaid would 
like to suggest to the new student 
that participation in as many of the 
Evening School activities as possi­
ble is a sure fire way of making new 
student friends.
Here are a few more suggestions 
that we wish to pass on. Why not 
come to the Plaid office and see if 
there isn’t something you can do to 
help out on the paper. You’ll be sure 
to meet some nice friendly people.
Attend as many of the Evening 
School social affairs as possible. 
Don’t forget that this is another 
sure way of getting acquainted with 
other students here at Tech. If you 
feel that you would like to be a real 
part of the social affairs, see if there 
isn’t something you can do to help 
the social committee.
Swimming Pool Opens
The swimming pool, located in 
the Gym, will be open as usual on 
Wednesday evenings 6:30 to 11:00. 
If you need a middle-of-the-week 
relaxation, this is the place for it. 
Temporary lockers may be secured 
and capable Mr. Moses will be there 
to oversee affairs and give a few 
pointers to those of you who may 
not be Johnny Weissmuellers or 
Esther Williams. (If you are the 
aforesaid type, come on up to the 
Plaid office—we can use you.) Our 
use of the pool depends upon our 
patronage so let’s turn out — and 
jump in!
The Plaid
Editor 1
Joseph M. Rymar '
News EditorMary de Maria Associate Editor«Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car­negie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School Staff.
Staff
Florence Chorba Frank MihelichVirginia Ehni Lois SchultzThelma Kitchen Fred VichichS. W. Marcinizyn Edward Williama
ATTENTION:
Evening Students 
October 14,1944 
Margaret Morrison 
Recreation Hall 
Refreshments 
Dancing
Six for One Benefit. ..
