VOL. 48—No. 22 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TÜES., APRIL 5, 1955
Tech Tiddley-Winks 
, Team To Trample PU
Natrat
Last night, before a capacity crowd of fifteen thousand Spanish 
athletes in the ever-popular Grille de Harrie, Forbes-on-the-Trol- 
ley-Line, a blank-faced Carnegie tiddley-wink quartet trimmed an 
inexperienced quartet from the U. of Wriglletto. Representing Tech 
in this square sparrow elimination#
was little Auglielmo’s own Beta 
Theta Omega fraternity.
The BTO intramural team, 
paced by Sihugo Sigafoos, who 
tallied 28 points, defeated the U. 
of Kriggletto in last night’s semi­
final. Tonight Gulielmoses’ BTO 
team will attempt to bring back 
to Tech the greatly coveted Tid- 
dley Cup after having been in 
Pitt’s possession for fifteen years.
Sihugo gave the Tartans an 
early lead by tipping three in the 
high scoring five point cup. This 
cup is surrounded by four one 
point cups. Coasting on this lead, 
the Scotties matched the Panthers 
of Pitt point for point; however 
the U. of Kragleto led by all-dis­
trict Ricardo Criketts (just what 
district is not known) gave BTO 
quite a scare.
Coach Kratz Urges CIT On
With an amazing display of 
finger dexterity, the CIT team 
out-thought, out-maneuvered, and 
out-cheated their opponents. 
Words of wisdom from their 
coach, F. M. Kratz, during the 
heat of the match enabled Sihugo 
to Up in four in the high scoring 
five point cup early in the game 
to defeat the four from Kragleto, 
who were having trouble with a 
fifth in their midst.
The joy of winning and the 
exuberance of the atmosphere 
filled the Tartan tiddley-winks- 
ters with a true scotch spirit.
The stage is now set for CIT’s 
attempt on the Tiddley Cup, 
which will be held tomorrow 
night. “Fat” Melvin, the book of 
the block, which is not to be con­
fused with the book of the month, 
says bookbinders favor the Tech 
Plaid tiddley-winksters to defeat 
the boys from Pittzanski Univer­
sity, who will be playing the role 
of the spoiler. This they may well 
do for the latest news to flash 
across the ticker tape is that 
“Big Jack” Crackerjack has left 
the team to go to Sigafoos U. His 
reason for leaving was “that I 
can’t stand the tension, the con­
stant grind of practice sessions 
and playing night after night, not 
for fun but to win. It isn’t a 
game any more, it has become a 
matter of life and death.” Adolph 
Kratz could not be reached for 
a statement in the matter.
Job Opportunities 
Are Exceptional 
For June Grads
Every year along about this 
time the leaves bud out, the birds 
chirp, the Fine Arts lawn takes 
a b'eating and every young sen­
ior’s fancy turns to—getting a job. 
Love you say? Nonsense, who can 
think of love when jobs are to be 
had! And just look at the jobs 
available!
This year several outstanding 
opportunities for especially tal­
ented seniors are being extended. 
Any senior interested in the jobs 
below should write his Congress­
man or nearest Welfare Agency.
The USMC this week announc­
ed plans for constructing a bridge 
between Formosa and the Chinese 
mainland. This, they feel would 
cut down the expense of defend­
ing the island since just one 
bridge instead of miles of sea- 
coast would have to be guarded 
against possible Red invasion.
To man this new project the 
USMC is looking for 248 graduat­
ing Tech engineers and scientists. 
This number would be sufficient 
to complete the project, thereby 
releasing the Seventh Fleet for 
other duty. The starting salary 
for this position is $72 per month 
private’s pay. Any man interested 
should have his head examined!
Another promising opportunity 
open to five lucky seniors is a 
position with the Do It Yourself 
Company of CIT. This firm is at 
present engaged in designing and 
building a network of tunnels be­
tween Morewood Gardens and the 
twelve fraternities. It is planned 
that the project pay for itself 
from tollgate revenues collected 
from frustrated males and escap­
ing females.
Especially needed are Mechani- 
ifil Engineers but other day .lab­
orers are also needed. The start­
ing salary is a share in the gate 
receipts plus free access to More- 
wood. Any man not interested 
should have his head examined!
Sad Carnegie Tech students are shown on the left looking over 
their recently deposed department heads. Said one, “The loss of 
these heads makes Tech just another seat of learning.”
Each year on or about April 
1 the TARTAN staff gets a 
diobolical gleam in its eye and 
starts to work on the annual 
NATRAT. The articles on this 
page are written in a humor­
ous vain for your enjoyment.
There will be no TARTAN 
next week due to the forth­
coming Easter vacation. This 
will give the weary staff time 
to catch up on their sleep. In 
fact the time is now 3:03 a.m. 
Monday morning. The next 
issue of the paper will appear 
on April 12.
Strong Fingers 
Sought For Tech’s 
New Yo-Yo Team
All those interested in parti­
cipating on the yo-yo team re­
port to coach Kant. If all the Na­
trat readers have been faithfully 
following their daily reporter they 
will know that coach Kant was 
just appointed to add some new 
life and to revamp the yo-yo 
team.
Immanuel Kant, who is well 
known for his categorical yo-yo 
with its imperative variation, is 
hoping for a big turnout. “Man­
ny” is particularly interested in 
walkers, for he believes this will 
help the individual to round out 
his philosophy while exercising 
his index finger; and everybody 
should have a well exercised in­
dex finger. Of course practice will 
be restricted to the usual four 
month period. The training will 
consist of stewed watercress and 
chestnuts.
Fullabull Prize 
Goes To Tartan 
For Jingolism
The Fullabull Prize, symbol of 
achievement in the field of “jing 
olistic arid disjointed journalism,” 
was awarded recently to the Car 
negie Tartan for its outstanding 
efforts during the past year.
In a citation with the prize, the 
Tartan was congratulated for its 
accurate announcements of future 
meetings and its equally good 
coverage of those past. The judges 
found these announcements “in­
tensely interesting and well-con­
structed.”
Other points which impressed 
the judges were the Tartan’s lib­
eral use of its “Patronize Tartan 
Advertisers” slogan (especially 
since there are so many ads), the 
judicious misspellings which serve 
to keep the readers’ interest alive 
and, in the same vein, the occa 
sional omission of a “continued” 
line from the bottom of a story 
which causes the readers to look 
through the entire issue to finish 
an article.
The Tartan becomes the first 
independent publication to win 
the prize in recent years since, in 
the past decade, the award has 
gone predominently to govern­
ment agencies for their “aston­
ishing ability to use more, and 
more words to say less and less 
in the least understandable man-
F.A. Arts, new head of the department of architecture, seen 
examining the grounds of the school. Here he is seen inspecting a 
coal chute in the side of the SIA building.
When queried about the intended new changes to be brought 
about by his administration, Prof. Arts explained that he is in favor 
of organic architecture, a return to nature. “I do not like the 
baseness of the steel structures,” he admonished, “but prefer the 
simplicity of primative art and structures. I try to attain that free 
feeling in my structures, a feeling of complete peace and harmony, 
bringing nature into the house. That is to say, bringing the out« 
side in, and the inside out.”
....“Further changes, he said, “will have to come after I have offi­
cially taken over office. But the students needn’t fear a spread 
or indoctrination of my pantheistic philosophy.”
Prof. Arts was leaving for a meeting with his new faculty 
heads, and was dressed in a charcoal brown annel suit, characterise 
of the part of the world that he comes from. One immediately 
noticed that he had eliminated the “rep” tie.
Tech Campus Clamors 
For Humor Magazine
A group of interested students on campus have petitioned the 
administration for permission to start a humor magazine here at 
Tech. It was pointed out that most other schools our size, and even 
smaller, have student-staffed camput wit publications, while we
One roommate. Measure­
ments: 36”, 24”, 34”. Last seen 
under hypnotic spell at Dorm 
Council Party Sunday even­
ing. If found please return to 
Room 215 Donner Hall or con­
tact “Lonely” via the Natrat, 
intraschool mail.
Courses Added 
To Curriculum
The administration has an­
nounced that, due to popular de­
mand, several new courses have 
been arranged and will be taught 
for the first time at Tech (or any­
where else) next semester.
New courses to be offered by 
the department of voodoo ancl 
sorcery are: Voodoo and Analytic 
Sorcery (V221), Differential Voo­
doo (V251); and Topology of 
Functional Sorcery (GV269). The 
head of the department, Professor 
Sigmund Freud, has not yet ap­
pointed instructors for these 
courses.
The economics department has 
added a course entitled Local 
Monopolies I and II. This courst 
will include study of such local 
monopolies as Skibo, Woodlawn, 
and the Bookstore. Their policies 
and prices will be carefully an­
alyzed, and an attempt will b$ 
made to arrive at a solution for 
the problems created by these 
establishments. Instructor is Pro­
fessor G. N. Product.
Courses as yet unclassified as 
to department include Astronomy,
MS V, Towel Hoarding, and Ad­
vanced, Phys Ed. The astronomy 
course will be an elective carry­
ing no academic credit. It will* . ’. anc* ^ can ^e a wonderful
have none at all. This journalistic 
lacking was feit to be unnecessary 
and unbefitting the Carnegie 
Plan.
John Smurd, well known cam­
pus personality, and leader of this 
student group, recently stated, 
“This campus has gone too long 
without a humor magazine, and 
it is really a shame that we have 
none. Certainly there are students 
on our campus capable of pro­
ducing wit and' humor on a par 
with the Harvard Lampoon, the 
Ohio State Sundial, and the Ya.e 
Record.”
Plight of Scott Issue
Attempts have been made in 
the past to have a humor maga­
zine here, but they have all been 
miserable failures, the most re­
cent being the Scottissue, which 
ceased amusing Tech students in 
1949. Excerpts from the old 
Scottissue, published by some un­
known syndicate, reappear peri­
odically on campus, but they at­
tract little or no attention.
If this plan materializes, the 
first issue will be scheduled for 
release at Spring Carnival. In 
order that we can get some indi­
cation of the student opinion, we 
would like to hear your ideas, 
comments and suggestions on the 
project.
A humor magazine, to be suc­
cessful, must have the backing 
of the majority of the student
meet nightly from 9 p.m. until 
your eyes get tired, and classes 
are to be held in the PiKA house, 
third floor front.
MS V, or Advanced Mud Sling­
ing, is highly recommended for 
home ec students, Scot staff writ­
ers, and other Democrats. This 
course is not to be confused with 
one with similar course letters 
which is taught by the U. S. Army
addition to the school’s activities. 
Most of all, it can be a lot of fun 
to write, produce, and read. Please 
address your comments to the 
Carnegie Natrat, Intraschool Mail.
Already we have heard much 
favorable comment concerning 
the proposed humor magazine. 
Moe Schlunk, student hermit and 
activity dodger, said “If we had 
a humor magazine, I would burn
(fifth and sixth year EOTC). The my worn copy of Boccachio’s De- 
latter course is not an elective, i cameron.”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN AprÜ 5, 1955
Levinson, Copp Named New 
Editors of Technical, Scot
At a general staff meeting on 
Friday, April 1. the Technical re­
organized for the 1955-56 school 
year.
Retiring editor-in-chief Ed­
ward Feigenbaum gave a short 
summary of this year’s work. He 
announced that the theme issue of 
the Technical would be ready in 
April and that a copy would be 
presented to every Tech student. 
The theme issue will be the big­
gest issue ever produced and will 
center around the various engi­
neering and science fields, the 
type of work that is currently be­
ing done and the opportunities 
present for the graduating engi­
neer or scientist.
Joel Levinson, New Editor
Mr. Feigenbaum then presented 
the editor-in-chief of 1955-56, 
Joel Levinson. Joel, who served 
as business manager during the 
past school year, has guided the 
Technical financially. Mr. Levin­
son announced his policy for 
1955-56 pointing out the phases 
of the magazine’s production that 
should be made more efficient and 
announcing that the goal would 
be to present a technical maga­
zine that would appeal to stu­
dents in every branch of science, 
engineering, architecture, and 
management.
Other members of the staff and 
their positions are as follows: 
assistant editor — Terry Sharp; 
business manager—Harry Hoover; 
advertising manager—Tim Day; 
assistant managing editors—Paul 
Varga and John Begovich; illustra­
tions editor and publicity—Peter 
XJrbach; feature editor — Louis 
Salvador; technicalities editor — 
Wayne Carman; art editors—Mel 
Levinson and Arnold Wasserman; 
techsperts editor—Judith Hirsch- 
field.
Annual Debating 
Tournament To Be 
Held April 23rd
The fifth annual Tartan tourna­
ment will be sponsored by the 
Tech Debating Society on Satur­
day. April 23. Approximately 
thirty colleges from Ohio, Penn­
sylvania, New York, New Jersey, 
Virginia, West Virginia, and In­
diana will be represented at this 
invitational debate.
The tournament will be carried 
on in orthodox debate manner, 
that is affirmative and negative. 
Constructive speeches will be ten 
minutes long and the rebuttals 
will last for five minutes. The 
topics will be the national col­
legiate debate topic, Resolved: 
That the United States extend 
recognition to the Communist 
government of China. Although 
this topic has caused much con­
troversy, it is an excellent debate 
question.
There are to be four rounds of 
debate—two in the morning and 
two in the afternoon. The first 
round will start at 10:30 a.m. The 
public is invited to the debates 
and the schedules for the various 
rounds will be available in room 
231 of Administration Hall on the 
day of the tournament. A banquet 
will be held for the debators at 
7:00 p.m. in the Union and the 
awards will be presented at that 
time.
Jack Belkin, a junior in the 
mechanical engineering depart­
ment, is tournament chairman, and 
June Sochatoff, a senior in 
MMCC, is in charge of the ban­
quet and correspondence. The 
Tech debators will act as hosts 
and guides to the visiting students.
Joel Levinson
New Technical Editor
Guidance Meetings 
For Freshman To 
Be Held Tuesdays
A series of guidance meetings 
for freshmen in engineering, 
science and management depart­
ments will be held this semester, 
during the Tuesday assembly 
periods at 11:30 a.m. in the Car­
negie Theater (Fine Arts Build­
ing) on the dates indicated below. 
Printing management students 
may participate if they desire.
The purpose of these meetings is 
to help orient freshmen in respect 
to the various professions which 
comprise engineering, science and 
management, and to help them 
make the best choice of depart­
ment.
April 19 chemistry, e 1 e c trical 
engineering, and me­
chanical engineering.
April 26 civil e n g i n e e r ing, 
mathematics, and 
physics.
May 10 chemical engineering 
metallurgical engi­
neering and industrial 
management.
? In the recently held Scot elec­
tions the following new staff 
were elected: editor - in - chief,
Carolyn Copp, business manager, 
Clarence Schmidt, advertising di­
rector, Joan Newman, art editor, 
Dick Oden, layout editor, Mary 
Tinker, personnel director, Joan 
Murphy, exchange issue, Bunny 
Florschutz, features ' editor, Ted 
Hatch, and fashion editor, Clare 
Lawler.
Carolyn, a junior painting and 
design student, has served on the 
art staff of the Scot for the last 
two years. The Scot is the campus 
honor magazine which is publish­
ed several times a year.
The new Scot officers will as­
sist in the April 19 issue, and will 
take over with the Spring Car­
nival issue. The next issue is call­
ed the exchange and features the 
best from past years Scots and 
from other college humor maga­
zines across the country. From 
all indications this issue will be 
popular with the students.
Plans are now being laid for 
the Spring Carnival issue. This 
issue, barring any unforseen hap­
penings, will go on sale several 
days before Spring Carnival and 
include the complete program of 
the weekend.
The Scot is the latest in a long 
line of humor magazines. Its pre­
decessors, sucû as the Scottie, met 
with opposition from the adminis­
tration on the grounds that they 
were in bad taste. The Scot was 
formed in 1951 and has been pub­
lished regularly since then.
Activity Cards
If you have had your pic­
ture taken for the Thistle, but 
have not yet filled out an ac­
tivities card, please fill one 
out in the Admissions Office or 
Registrars Office and return it 
through intra-school mail be­
fore Friday, April 8.
Shakespeare 
On WQED
On Tuesday evening, April 5, 
Carnegie Tech drama students 
will present selected scenes from 
Shakespeare’s “Much Ado About 
Nothing” on the WQED anniver­
sary show at 8:30.
Doctor Frank Baxter, Cali­
fornia professor who has done 
Shakespeare on television, will 
give a commentary which should 
guide the viewers to maximum 
enjoyment of the two orchard 
scenes and the jail scene with 
Digberry the clown.
The anniversary show, called 
“Man to Man,” will depict the 
contribution of educational tele­
vision to the growth of the com­
munity. The theme, “learning 
through communicating with other 
people,” will be developed through 
vignettes of outstanding regular 
WQED programs. Special elec­
tronic effects devised at the sta­
tion will be used throughout the 
production.
Panel Of Americans 
Cited For Achievement
A group of students from Carnegie Tech who travel in the Pitts» 
burgh district, discussing racial and religious understanding will re­
ceive the James and Rachel Levinson Foundation Brotherhood Award 
on April 19. A $500 check will be given to the Panel of Americana
-------------------------------------------------¦—?at the annual brotherhood award
dinner of the National ConferencePlans Made For 
YM-YW Retreat 
On April 16-17
The YMCA and the YWCA will 
sponsor a retreat on April 16-17 
on the subject “You and World 
Affairs.” Marlyn Jakub and 
Nancy Fee, the co-chairmen of 
the project, have announced that 
Mr. Robert Schwarz, assistant 
professor in history at Tech, will 
be the main speaker.
Other attractions on the program 
will include a panel of American 
and International students on the 
subject “Is a Peaceful World Pos­
sible?”, several discussion groups 
fellowship. This subject has been 
chosen because of its great im­
portance at the present time and 
the increasing responsibilities 
which we as college students will 
soon have in world affairs.
Toynbee to be Discussed
A large part of the discussion 
will center on Arnold Toynbee’s 
views on the revolution we are 
living through. Mr. Toynbee has 
advanced the idea that “The fu­
ture of mankind depends very 
largely upon how the western 
middle class responds to the chal­
lenges of democracy and nation­
alism in the non-western world.”
Everyone who is interested is 
urged to attend. The group will 
leave Tech at 1 p.m. on Saturday 
the 16th, for YMCA Camp Kon- 
O-Kwee, which is about thirty- 
five miles away. The conference 
will end early Sunday afternoon. 
The total cost will be $5.00 plus 
transportation which will be pro­
vided. Those wishing to apply 
may do so at the office of Sam 
N. Gibson, Coordinator of Relig­
ious Activities, in Carnegie Un­
ion.
of Christians and Jews at the Wil­
liam Penn Hotel Ballroom at 6:45 
p. m.
The presentation to the Panel 
of Americans will be made by one 
of the life trustees of the Levin­
son Foundation. The Panel is the 
first group to win the James and 
Rachel Levinson Award; previous 
winners were individuals. The 
Award is given, “to that person 
or group of persons in the greater 
Pittsburgh district making the 
greatest individual contribution to 
the furtherance of principles of 
brotherhood.”
The Panel of Americans is com­
posed of students representing the 
various religious and racial groups 
of the area. Students who have 
been active on tht panel during 
the 1954-55 season are as fol­
lows: Gail Blank, James Blow, 
Anita Bogdanow, Herbert Buch- 
wald, Richard Christensen, Carly 
Cohen, Edward Duda, Richard 
Foster, Lawrence Gassner, Wil­
liam Hudson, Florence Inghram, 
Eileen Landay, Rudolf Ligtvoet, 
Alma McCloud, James Nixon, 
[Continued on page 3]
Scholarships
Mortar Board will award 
this spring a $150 scholarship 
to a junior woman from any 
of the colleges who has shown 
service and leadership on the 
campus. Applicants must 
have at least a 2.75 average 
factor for the two previous 
semesters.
Applications may now be 
secured in the Dean of Wom­
en’s Office, and must be re­
turned by Friday, April 15, 
1955.
Activities Keys
Applications for Activities 
keys are now available to jun­
iors and seniors in the Dean of 
Men’s office. These applica­
tions must be filled out as sor>n 
as possible in order that the 
keys may be ordered early. 
Completed forms are to be re­
turned to the Dean of Men’s 
office.
Tech Fraternity Presidents 
Consider Reorganiation Plans
The regular meeting of the Council of Fraternity Presidents was 
held at the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity house on the night of 
Monday, March 21. The main item of business concerned reports 
by the Service and Constitution Committees.
It has been the desire of CFP to*-----------------------------------------------------
sponsor a blood drive on the Tech
Southern Star Barbecue
5185 BROWNSVILLE ROAD 
Six Miles From Liberty Tubes
and &&ance 
Regis King's Orchestra Friday and Saturday
Telephone: OLYMPIA 5-9963
campus. Such a drive has been 
hampered by the inability to ob­
tain a bloodmobile. The drive will 
take place April 11 if a bloodmo­
bile is then available. Lou Teti, 
chairman of the service committee, 
continued his report with a plan 
for a possible work project for the 
fraternities. In the past CFP has 
organized several community work 
projects with the physical labor 
being donated by the fraternities.
Plan Rejected 
The plan as presented to CFP 
consisted of each fraternity send­
ing a work party on each of two 
weekends to clean a campsite area 
for the Shadyside Boys Club. The 
project was given a very cool re­
ception by the representatives and 
was defeated when voted upon. 
After this motion to shorten the 
length of the project to one week­
end was introduced and when this 
met with similar feeling the group 
[Continued on page 8]
Hypnotist Feature 
At Dorm Party 
Held Last Sunday
Dick Hazley, a professional 
hypnotist, was the center of at­
traction at the combined Men’s 
and Women’s Dorm Council party 
held Sunday evening in the new 
recreation room in Morewood 
Gardens from 7:30 to 10:00. Haz­
ley, is already a familiar name 
to many Tech students as he has 
previously entertained at several 
campus fraternity parties.
The party, which also featured 
dancing and free refreshments, 
was given in answer to the many 
requests that the Men’s and Wom­
en’s Dorm Council sponsor more 
social activities for dorm stu­
dents. Ben Jones, who was in 
charge of the event, is making 
plans for future parties.
ENGINEERS...
WORK IN PASADENA
The Center of Science and Research
The nation’s leading developer and manufacturer of electronic instruments, test equipment and aerial cameras has openings for those receiving M.S., or Ph.D., E.E., M.E., Ph. degrees.
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN A CHALLENGING 
ASSIGNMENT IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING FIELDS.
Electronic Circuit Design Aerial Camera Design
Servo-Mechanisms Mechanical Design
Instrumentation Design Photographic Mechanisms
Microwave Techniques Airborne Magnetometers
Electro-Mechanisms*
ON . . . APRIL 20, 1955
. . . pkitt to SM members of HYCON ENGINEERING 
staff who will conduct . . .
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS 
on the CARNEGIE TECH CAMPUS
Consult your Placement Office new for appointment
HYCON MFG. COMPANY
PASADENA
2961 EAST COLORADO

---------------------------------------------------

mmamgtgm
April 5, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
On CampuswithMaxôhuJman
(Author of -Barefoot Boy With Cheek’' etc.)
THE STUDENT COUNCILi*
Today let us investigate a phenomenon of American college 
life called the student council. First of all, what is the student 
council? The answer is simple: the student council is a council of students.
Next, what does the student council do? Again the answer is simple: it meets.
Is ext, what goes on at the meetings? This question is rather 
more complicated than the others. Perhaps it can best be an­
swered by reproducing here the minutes of a typical meeting of a typical student council.
Meeting scheduled for 8:30 p.m. at Student Union Building. 
Call to order 9:51 p.m. by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding. Motion 
to adjourn made by Louis Bicuspid, freshman representative. 
Motion ruled out of order by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding. 
Hunrath Sigafoos called “old poop” by Louis Bicuspid, fresh­
man representative. Seconded by Delores Wheatgerm, sophomore 
representative. Tabled by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding.
Minutes of last meeting read by Zelda Pope-Toledo, secretary. 
Motion to accept minutes made by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding. Motion defeated.
Treasurer’s report not read because Rex Mercredi, treasurer, 
not present at meeting. Rex Mercredi, treasurer, impeached in absentia.
Motion made by Louis Bicuspid, freshman representative, to 
allow sale of hard liquor in school cafeteria. Seconded by 
Delores Wheatgerm, sophomore representative. Motion tabled 
by Hunrath Sigafoos, old poop.
Motion made by Booth Fishery, fraternity representative, to 
permit parking in library. Motion referred to committee.
Motion made by Gladys Algae, junior representative, to allow 
attendance in pajamas and robes at first hour classes. Motion 
referred to committee.
Motion made by Elwood Feldspar, athletics representative, 
to conduct French Conversation classes in English. Motion 
referred to committee.
Motion made by Esme Plankton, sorority representative, to 
allow hypnosis during Rush Week. Motion referred to committee.
Motion made by Pierre Clemenceau, foreign exchange student, 
to conduct German Conversation classes in French. Motion 
referred to committee.
Motion made by Harriet Critter, ag campus representative, 
to allow faculty members above the rank of assistant professor 
to perform marriages. Motion referred to committee.
Observation made by Martha Involute, senior representative, 
that in her four years on student council every motion referred 
to committee was never heard of again. Miss Involute was tabled.
Motion made by Louis Bicuspid, freshman representative, to 
allow sale of hard liquor in Sociology I and II. Seconded by 
Delores Wheatgerm, sophomore representative. Motion tabled 
by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding crossly.
Refreshments served. Coffee, cake, Philip Morris Cigarettes. 
The following resolution adopted by acclamation:
“WHEREAS Philip Morris is milder, tastier, more exhila­
rating, and chock full of rare rich vintage tobaccos; and 
WHEREAS Philip Morris is contained in the patented Snap- 
Open pack which is the quickest, simplest, neatest container yet 
devised for cigarettes; and WHEREAS Philip Morris, the most 
commendable of smokes in the most admirable of wrappings, 
is available in both king-size and regular; therefore BE IT 
RESOLVED that it is the sense of this meeting that Philip 
Morris is far and away the best cigarette buy on this or any 
other campus.”
Meeting adjourned with many a laugh and cheer at 9:58.
Respectfully submitted,
Zelda Pope-Toledo, Secretary
©Max Shulman, 1955
The makers of PHILIP MORRIS, who bring you this column, move 
that today’s PHILIP MORRIS is the best ever. We know you’ll 
second the motion.
Business As Usual 
As UN Prepares 
Tenth Year Fete
In the past few weeks the Gen­
eral Assembly of the U. N. dis­
cussed the special U. N. Fund for 
Economic Development and plan­
ned the program for commemora­
tion of the tenth anniversary of 
the signing of the U. N. charter.
The Security Council heard a 
report on the recent Gaza clash, 
given by Maj. Gen. E. L. A. Burns, 
Chief of Staff of U. N. Truce or­
ganization for Palestine. As a re­
sult of further study, the Council 
condemned Israel unanimously 
for that attack; moreover, the Se­
curity Council urged Egypt and 
Israel to cooperate in reducing 
border tensions.
The Soviet delegation to the 
U. N. disarmament conference in 
London presented a new dis­
armament plan, and it was view­
ed with hope.
The Economic and Social Coun­
cil went on with its work in the
Commission on Status of Women, 
in the Committee on Enforcement 
of International Arbitral Awards, 
in the population Commission, in 
the Economic Commission for 
Europe (meeting in Geneva), in 
the Executive Board and the Pro­
gram Committee of the U. N. 
Children’s Fund, and in the Tech­
nical Assistance Board.
Bill Henry Composes 
Scotch ’n Soda Music
From physicist to composer, Bill Henry, composer of this year’s 
Scotch ’n Soda, has had a full and interesting life to date. To be­
gin at the beginning (for all practical purposes), Bill was discharged 
from the navy in 1946. He had always been interested in science 
so he decided to study physics.*
After about a year he changed his
mind and switched to his other 
love, music, and has been at it 
ever since. He started his educa­
tion at Wittenburg College in 
Springfield and finished his un­
dergraduate work at Tech, going 
on for a master’s here.
Following graduation, Bill took 
off for Miami University to teach 
theory of music for a year. Some­
what surprised to discover that 
Miami U. was in Oxford, Ohio not 
Florida, he returned to Pennsyl­
vania hoping to teach in a high 
school or college here.
Thoughts of West Virginia
He heard of a job in a small 
West Virginia college and applied 
for it since it was fairly close to 
home. The college replied with a 
letter telling him what would be 
expected of him if he accepted 
the position. He was to teach all 
the piano and theory, history of 
music, direct the band, orchestra 
and chorus and in effect he was to 
be the music department. Not 
quite . visualizing a twenty-four 
hour working day, Bill reconsider­
ed becoming a physicist again.
Luckily for Scotch ’n Soda, he 
rejected this idea and came back 
to Tech last year to get his bache­
lor’s degree in education. For, 
strangely enough, though he is 
qualified to teach in a college, 
under Pennsylvania laws he is 
not allowed to teach in a second­
ary school until he has fulfilled 
certain education requirements.
Summer Experience
Bill has been close to the 
theater in some of his summer 
jobs. One summer he built scenery 
for a summer theater. Last sum­
mer he worked as a roustabout 
for the Ringling Brothers Barnum 
and Bailey Circus, among other 
things lighting the featured lady 
tightrope walker up and down 
her 45° angle approach wire. This 
was his most hectic summer job. 
It did have some benefits as it 
improved his sleep.
Other summer occupations have 
been; driving a truck, hiking 
across the famous Appalachian 
Trail, and, more prosaically, al­
though closer to his chosen work, 
playing saxophone in a dance 
band. Having seen most of the 
United States, in his short career, 
his present desire is to find a nice, 
quiet position as music director in 
a rural high school and to “just 
vegetate.”
International
The International Club will 
have its next meeting on 
Thursday, April 14, at 8:00 
p.m. in the Carnegie Union.
Professor William H. E. 
Johnson, of the department of 
psychology and education, 
who has had personal experi­
ence beyond the iron curtain, 
will be the guest speaker. He 
will talk on “Education in 
Russia.”
The speech will be followed 
by a social hour and »refresh­
ments will be served. Every­
body is invited.
Sorority
Competition
1. Competition will be relay 
races. Nature and type will 
not be disclosed.
2. Two teams of seven from 
each sorority may be entered. 
There is an entrance fee of $5.
3. Teams must be entered 
by April 22; give names and 
fees to Marilyn Mitchell or 
Mary Ellen Ruth.
4. Competition will be held 
on Fine Arts Lawn immedi­
ately after Call Day exercises 
on May 6.
5. Judging will be based on 
a point system. Winner will 
not be known until Saturday 
night and trophy will be 
awarded at the dance. If there 
are any questions, contact 
Marilyn Mitchell or Mary El­
len Ruth.
Panel—
[Continued from page 2] 
Hannah Oppenheimer, Audrey 
Rosenthal, Anthony Ruff a, John 
Senko, William Shea, Joseph 
Shields, and Manuel Slawkins.
William Shea, junior in indus­
trial management, is manager of 
the group. The other officers are 
Herbert Buchwald, Edward Duda, 
Lawrence Gassner, James Nixon, 
Audrey Rosenthal, and John 
Senko.
Under the direction of Dr. Er­
win R. Steinberg, assistant pro­
fessor of English, the students 
have held panel discussions on 
inter-group problems before 
church groups, civic clubs, and 
similar organizations. They are 
now led by Mrs. Erna T. Meyer- 
son, assistant professor of sociol­
ogy. Dr. A. Fred Sochatoff, asso­
ciate professor of English, was the 
paneFs first moderator and is still 
active in the group.
The Tau Delta Phi, Beta Theta 
Pi, and Delta Upsilon fraternity 
houses were formerly women's 
dorms.* t *
The first edition of The Car­
negie Tartan appeared in 1907.* * *
The full name Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology appears only 
four times on campus.
MANAGEMENT JOBS!
If you’re graduating this year 
you may qualify for this unusual offer
The opportunity—To join a few men in a training program 
which will prepare you for a place in management with a 
growing organization that must maintain the highest 
type of intelligent administration. It is an opportunity in 
management operations in the Home Office rather than 
sales or sales management.
The job—If you are selected to join us, you will spend your 
first eight months in comprehensive training designed to 
qualify you as a Company management consultant. You 
will be trained in procedure analysis, production planning, 
management surveys, quality control, cost control, con­
ference leadership, public relations, report writing, inter­
viewing technique, and life insurance principles.
The future—Immediately following completion of training 
you will be assigned to consulting work within our Home 
Office organization. There you will be expected to develop 
ideas for the improvement of the day-to-day organization 
of the Company.
The salary—The starting salary compares favorably with 
those of other organizations. In addition, all of our per­
sonnel receive regular medical and dental examinations 
and luncheon in the Company’s lunch rooms at the 
Company's expense. We also maintain a well-rounded 
insurance and retirement program for our personnel and 
their dependents. »
The requirements—Personality, appearance, creative ability 
and initiative are essential qualities. Evidence of leadership 
as demonstrated in scholastic and extra-curricular activities 
is considered important in the selection of qualified men. 
Preference is given to those who hold r graduate degree in 
industrial engineering or business administration.
If the facts in this brief description interest you, write 
directly to Management Education, Coordination Divi­
sion, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
1 Madison Avenue New York 10, N. Y.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE—APRIL 5
'C?fARL«S\?OÎDlCK
V ...ai r ûPP
BUT HE. STILL NEEDS WILDROOT CREAM-OlL,ON WHAT'S LEFT#
by AL CAPP
I'LL SAVE II eOT-S°&/~ VOO «- 
YOO, ¿J RUINED MY SALE.'?’
! CHIEF/:' |f NOW, HE DOESN'T 
NEED A HAiRCUT.r
-AND, WHEN IT GROWS BACK, 
BE SURE TO CONDITION IX 
THE NATURAL WAY, WITH 
WILDROOT CREAM-OIL — 
AMERICA'S FAVORITE//'a
wm
w if
I* LV É
6::45 turn e:udM ’sd o ’sd f 
e:i:nc.RgKicRn:u5'Oh f MY 
RELIEVES DRYNESS" NAMEK is
MISS 
PIMPLE- 
TON.7
GET WILDROOT 
CR&V+0IL,CHARLIE!.'
ONL.V CREAM-OIL GROOMS AND CONDITIONS HAIR — THE NATURAL WAY !f-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—April 5, 1955
Editorial—
Time For A Change
Now that the mad period is known as 
“rushing” is nearing it seems a logical time 
for Carnegie fraternities to size up the situ­
ation once again and see if there isn’t any 
better system than has been used during the 
past several years.
The last rush period impressed many 
people as not only being unsatisfactory for 
freshmen, but also for fraternity men. For 
the freshmen, it is unfair to their sincere 
attempt to adjust to college life when fra­
ternities swoop down on them without much 
of any warning. Too, the freshmen now en­
rolling at Carnegie Tech are younger and 
more inmature than those of previous years; 
the result being a feeling of insecurity among 
the majority of freshmen who find them­
selves sought after in a manner they find j 
difficult to comprehend at first.
The fraternity men, on the other hand, 
also find themselves hard pressed during the 
hectic week. The competition among frater­
nities seems to be forcing more intensified 
rushing programs each year. If it is just j 
a case of the Jones’ keeping up with the 
Smith’s, then we feel that most fraternities | 
would welcome any change that would bring 
relief from the type of program now in ex­
istence. ________________
Delayed rushing in some form may be the answer to 
the problem. Probably not the deferred pledging program 
that was presented to the Council of Fraternity Presidents 
last fall, but a modified version with the changes made 
where most strenuous objections were made by the col­
lective fraternities.
Last fall, it appeared that the fraternities were resist­
ing the idea of the change itself more than they were re­
sisting the basic fundamentals incorporated in the plan. 
There was concern about the change-over period, when 
some houses might experience financial losses due to the 
absence of a regular pledge class in the first semester. If 
all of the fraternities could forget their very transient na­
ture for a while, and think of the over-all benefits of an im­
proved rushing program, the financial losses of one semester 
could be amortized over the preceding and succeeding sem­
esters to the change.
It’s time for a change.
Trash
Finally spring has sprung, or at least it seems that way 
for the past several days. With the change in weather many 
changes can be noted around campus. Students relaxing 
on the Fine Arts lawn, Bramuda shorts, and the lack of 
on the Fine Arts lawn, Bermuda shorts, and the lack of 
people in afternoon classes are in evidence again.
This movement to the outdoors has created a problem 
in past years. Students eating their lunch on the Fine Arts 
lawn and in cars parked on the Tech campus have not 
bothered to put their trash in baskets provided for trash. It 
has created an eyesore not to mention extra work for the 
maintenance department.
The Tech campus is something that students should be 
proud of and not clutter with waste trash.
Unrest In MMCC
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to confirm the rumor about the 
unrest in the home economics department of 
MMCC mentioned in “Over the Skibo Table.” The 
home economics students being trained as pro­
fessional women are being treated like grade school 
children by the department. I wonder when we 
will be marched through the halls by twos be­
tween classes?
Certainly the rule about being late has worked 
effectively, but it has left a feeling of bitterness 
and disgust among the majority of home ec ma­
jors. I don't quite understand what the depart­
ment is striving for. It must think that the stu­
dents are lacking somewhere. Perhaps we are. 
However, the lacking must be at both ends. I 
think that the department should look at itself. 
When students cut the same class periodically 
there is evidently something wrong with the class. 
Many of the courses offered are either so boring 
or so useless that the students cut without any 
misgivings. Instead of penalizing the students with 
their childish whims, the department should first 
give itself an objective looking over.
Another Irate Student.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, P*. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
•nd examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ........... .....................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor ................................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager ...................................................................................................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor .............................................. ..................................................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor ............................. ................................... ......June Sochatoff
• port« Editor ......... ............................ ........................................ ..........Lenny Feldman'
Copy Editor—Bob Russell. Advertising Manager—Marty Ostroff. Assistant 
Business Manager—Vic Shiry. Circulation Manager—Don Gross. Office Mansger 
—Joyce Wright. Photography Editor—Barbara Toia. Features Editor—Joe Szwec. 
Reporters—Marilyn Casey, Stephanie Mackay. Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Dottie 
Scarf, Joanne Babbitt, Marjo King. Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, Carolou 
Fidder, Sally Day. Peggy Heath. Dolores Chidester, Evelyn Alessio. Janet Bishop, 
Kay Melenyzer, Juli Wehousie. Sports Staff—James Lacey. Art Staff—Carolyn 
Copp. Harold MacDonald, Robert Connell. Make-Up Staff—Tom Wright, Jack 
Recker, Paul Doebler, Hayden Duensing. Advertising Staff—Robert Sorkin, Harly 
Bernbach. Frank Zonis, Herbert Kriendler.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28. 1925
Member of the Associated College Press.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, inc.. College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year.
Parking Again
Editor, the Tartan:
I have been wanting to make some comments 
about the parking situation around Tech for some 
time and now since the subject has been brought 
up I think I will. I have two major complaints, 
both of which are different from those stated in 
the letter in last week’s Tartan. First, I would 
like to make the plea that people take a few more 
seconds and park between the yellow lines on 
Frew Street so that they don’t use the space in 
tended for two cars. This carelessness is especially 
predominant in the evening.
My second complaint is against students that 
park in the illegal zones, such as the girl writing 
last week’s letter. I am glad she got the two 
tickets and hope she gets another every time she 
parks in ©ne of the no parking zones. She doesn’t 
seem to realize that those yellow lines are put 
there to keep her from getting to class or to make 
money for the police department, but instead are 
for the safety of all those using those roads. Cars 
parked on the curves of Margaret Morrison Street 
are hazards to all drivers using the street.
The “Irate Commuter” has no reason to com 
plajn about walking two blocks from the barracks 
parking lot. This is a small percentage of the dis­
tance that girls living in Morewood Gardens, or 
students on many other campuses, have to walk. 
If she isn’t willing to walk a few-extra steps to 
class, she doesn’t deserve the privilege of attend­
ing college. Just one more remark, does she really 
think that if parking were permitted in these 5 
or 10 spots that there would be a place left for 
her when she comes a minute or two before class?
A Commuter.
P. S.—Please do not print my name. Now that 
I have incurred the wrath of a woman, I don’t 
wish to have all its fury loosed upon me.
WRCT 
SCHEDULE
Tuesday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—Would and
Campus News
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Adventures in 
Research 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation. 
8:00 p.m.—Kiltie Band 
Concert 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Wednesday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—U. S. Navy Band 
7:30 p.m.—Encore 
8:00 p.m.—Greek Sing 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.rrf.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Thursday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Guest Star 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Ye Old Curiosity 
Shoppe 9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Friday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Serenade in Blue 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Musical World 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—TGIF Club 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Saturday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
3:00 p.m.—Matinee 
6:00 p.m.—670 Club 
7:00 p.m.—News 
7:15 p.m.—670 Club 
9:00 p.m.—Reverie 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Reverie 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Sunday
1:45 p.m.—Sign On, News 
2:00 p.m.—Show Time 
3:00 p.m.—Sunday Pops 
Concert 
5:30 p.m.—Proudly We Hall 6:00 p.m.—News 
6:05 p.m.—Album of Favorites 
7:00 p.m.—Penthouse 
Serenade 8:00 p.m.—Freelance 
8:30 p.m.—Concert Hall 11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Monday
7:30 a.m.—Musie in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, New« 
7:15 p.m.—Interlude 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00- p.m.—211 Club 
8:30 p.m.—Masterworks from 
France 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.-—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
The Kitchen 
Sink
This is “The March,of Science,” an article dedi­
cated to the undying efforts of those men who have 
devoted their lives to the thankless task of making 
our everyday existence more enjoyable . . . through 
Alchemy! Those men, those great men of science! 
Where would we be today if it were’nt for: Emily 
Trot, and her rules of etiquette! Etaoin Shrdlu, and 
Pitti Rosforum Oh Vallie!” Just how far could 
civilization have progressed without: Bubble Gum! 
Band Aids! Street lights! Duquesne’ Phlogiston! 
H2S! Ex-lax! Seltzer! Benzedrene! Henry Boettcher! 
When you come right down to it, how about Skibo 
coffee?
Yes, of course, Skibo coffee! Brazil’s answer to 
Aqua Regia. And that flavor: good ’till the last man. 
drops! But what about the story of Skibo coffee? 
Where did it all begin? How did it ajl begin? WHY 
did it all begin?
They say the original recipe was used when 
the beverage was served at the signing of the Magna 
Carta in 1215. Some historians claim that enough 
was made at that time to supply the Skibo Cafeteria 
until 1980! Other reports hint that the recipe was 
lost from ‘the public eye and handed down from 
father alchemist to son alchemist until Andrew 
Carnegie ran across it in a small pub in Skibo, 
Scotland in 1893. Bringing it to this country, he 
introduced it at Tech in the formative years of the 
institution. This new taste sensation startled the 
drinking world, and gorments everywhere clamored 
to get the recipe . . . but to no avail.
But a revolution occured in 1942 when the 
Lavender Hill District Mob was able to synthesize 
the potent liquid. With the formula in the wrong 
hands, it was sold illegally. for impossibly high 
prices. Yes! They had the nerve to sell Hot coffee 
on the Black market!
In concluding our research, we wondered . . . 
did this momentous occurence in the history of 
Skibo coffee change it any? Has it suffered any 
satisfaction-stealing changes since that time- 
honored revolution of 1924. No! No! No! We can 
guarantee that Skibo coffee of today does not differ 
in the least from that amazing product of yester­
year! Furthermore, we are sure that the beverage 
that we drink today is the sam# that our forefathers 
consumed.
The vfery same?
Yes . . . As we drink it today and tomorrow we 
can feel sure that every drop will be saved for 
future generations to revere and glorify!
Though grayed, yellow, and musty with age 
SKIBO COFFEE WILL GO ON!!!
With a dash—Uncle Mash 
| _ (Take tea and see!)

---------------------------------------------------

Apri! 5, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page f
FRANK MOSESTENNIS COACH
WILLIAM RODGERS
60L.F COACH
flIKCN
Rodgers And Golf
William Rodgers, who in aca­
demic life is the Registrar of the 
Division of Student Personnel 
and Welfare, took over the golf 
helm when the late Buddy Over­
end retired three years ago. Al­
though he did not play golf at 
college and took up the sport sev­
eral years ago purely for relaxa­
tion, he has filled his position 
quite capably. The team under his 
direction, has taken second place 
in the Tri-State meet in 1953, and 
third last year.
Of the six men on last year’s 
team, all will be back. Of the 
total of six positions and one 
alternate last year, the first was 
filled by Ed Cipro, and the fifth 
and sixth positions were filled by 
Mike Fedor and George Rybicki, 
respectively. The remaining four 
positions were taken by Tom 
Schorr in second position, Bill 
Wilton in third, and John Ekiss in 
fourth, while Ralph Santmyer 
served as the alternate.
The only senior on the team is 
Ed Cipro, while the last four 
players mentioned are only sop­
homores. Fedor and Rybicki are 
also soph mores. With the experi­
ence gained during the past year, 
the linkmen should present a 
formidable foe for any Tri-State 
opponent.
Thinclads Will 
Meet Rockets
April 16 will officially mark the 
opening of the Tartan track sea­
son when Tech opposes Slippery 
Rock State Teachers College here 
at Skibo bowl, in what will no 
doubt be the district’s best dual 
track meet this season. Last year 
the Tartans lost a close triangu­
lar meet to the Teachers.
The Rockets are holders of the 
Tri-State track crown which they 
won last year and are a team 
capable of ending Tech’s long 
reign of local dual competition. 
The Teachers boast an array of 
field men who can toss the shot, 
discus and javelin to impressive 
marks. Larry Bruner, a Wilkins- 
burg high school product and 
winner of the high school mile 
race in Pennsylvania, will match 
pace with Mai Gilleis and Bill 
Bryant to feature the afternoon’s 
festivities.
The meet may well produce 
new records in the Ski,bo record 
book. If the Tartans can get by 
Slippery Rock, they may well be 
assured of completing their fifth 
straight unbeaten season.
Dick Swaney Hurt
When the track team opens its 
season' Saturday against Slippery 
Rock, one of last years top run­
ners will be watching from the 
sidelines. Dick Swaney, one of 
the district’s top quarter milers, 
is nursing a broken leg, an injury 
that could sideline him for the 
entire season. Dick sustained the 
injury while running second leg 
on the Tech mile relay at the 
Livingston Relays. Finding the 
footing rough, Dick kicked off on 
the final turn and his spikes grab­
bed, but nevertheless, he finished 
the race to help the team place 
sixth in a field of 20. 1
Moses And Tennis
Frank Moses, a veteran coach 
and instructor in the Tech physi­
cal education department, has 34 
years of experience here to his 
credit. He was a member of the 
track team at Springfield College 
in Massachusetts, and was cap­
tain in his senior year. At col­
lege he played tenpis but was not 
a varsity participant. Here at 
Tech he has provided more evi­
dence to support the fact that to 
be a good coach and produce 
championship teams one does not 
have to be a great athlete in the 
sport.
Last year the tennis team had 
a streak of 22 victories broken by 
Penn State, a streak that had 
covered four seasons. They bounc­
ed back from this defeat to win 
the next four matches but may 
find the going rough this year 
due to losses in manpower 
through graduation. Clark Gar- 
recht, Mahlon Saibol, and Don 
Duncklee have finished their ten­
ure at Tech, while Don Tsaing 
transferred to another school. But 
back this year to help fill one of 
the vacancies is A1 Glasser, a 
member of the 1953 squad.
Thinclads Beat Jeanette 
Harriers; Streak At 28
By Dick Swaney
A large and enthusiastic crowd of students and local track fans turned out for Tech’s initial 
appearance on the cinders, and were not dissappointed as the Tartan’s successfully opened the 1955 
track season by downing the Jeannette Harriers, 85^ to 45%, and extending its unbeaten dual vic­
tory string to 28.
John Muller once again proved himself Tech’s “old reliable,” as he captured first in two events, 
placed second in another and"“- 
anchored an impressive relay team
to its seventh dual meet victory. 
“Rock” ran a brilliant quarter 
mile, failing to tie the Skibo Bowl 
record by 0.5 of a second, which 
he may well surpass by the time 
the season gets in high gear.
The thinclacrs of Coach Bob 
Carman ran well as a 
capturing seven firsts of a possible 
nine, in the track events. Mai 
Gillies and Ward Jones, co-cap­
tains of this year’s speedster, run­
ning a smooth mile, and then half 
mile to claim first in both events. 
Ward nailed down seconds in the 
shot put and discus to lead the 
Tartans in the field events.
A1 Frank Nears Record
Giving good accounts of them­
selves in their initial track ap­
pearance were A1 Frank and 
Frank Smith. Al, the scrappy 
hardwood star, was knocking on 
the door of Tartan track history, 
as he came within a fraction of an 
inch of clearing the bar at 6’2” and 
erasing Phil Crest’s record of 6’1” 
set in 1936. Oddly enough Al out- 
jumped his tutor Joe Szewc by one 
inch, as the ' two put on quite a 
show for the crowd.
Frank Smith, the freshmen flash 
from Georgia, ran first in the 100 
yard dash, lost out in the 220 
yard dash by a shoulder, and made 
an impressive leap in the broad 
jump. This should make Frank the 
man to watch in district sprinting 
circles, as he has already per­
formed well at the district indoor 
meets and competed favorably 
with some of the nation’s best 
talent at the Livingston Relays.
Bryant Twins Run One, Two
Larry and Bill Bryant, twin 
brothers from Monaca, Pa., took 
first and second respectively in the 
grueling two mile run to fill the 
spot left by “Hap” McDonald, last
YOU’RE A BETTER GOLFER 
THAN YOU THINK!
Bobby Jones registered woods and irons, and Jimmy 
Thomson registered woods are SYNCHRO-DYNED® 
clubs... the only clubs made that offer you perfect 
balance ... and an identical contact feel.
Because every one of these clubs swings and feels alike 
. . . your golf becomes more uniform, your shots con­
sistently better. With golfers reporting handicaps cut by 
as much as Vi • • • these are the clubs to play.
Make your next round a better one... with Spalding.
VOL.48—N
John Mullen handing off to Jim Flynn on the last leg of a relay.
year’s standout distance man. Bill 
also placed second in the mile run 
behind Gillies, making his season 
debut rather impressive. Mike 
Driscoll retained his fine cross­
country form to take third place 
in the two-mile event.
Russ Thomas, Jeanette star still 
ailing from an attack of tonsilitis, 
ran only one event, but did well 
enough to win the low hurdles. He 
also participated in the discus and 
broad jump, taking a first in the 
jump and third in the discus, for 
a fine day’s work.
Pole Vault—Won by Copeland and 
Hughes, Jeannette (tie). 2—Tie between 
Luzaw of Jeannette, Zuckerwar of Tech, 
Shipman of Jeannette. Height—10 feet,
8 inches.
Broad Jump—Won by Thomas, Jean, 
nette; 2—Tie between Smith of Tech, 
and Chuck of Tech. Distance—20 feet, 4 inches.
Mile Run—Won by Gillies, Tech; 2— 
Bryant; 3—Higgins, Jeannette. Time—• 4:31.9.
440-Yard Run—Won by Muller, Tech; 
2—Heinecke, Tech; 3—Dick, Tech. Time —:51.4.
100-Yard Dash—Won by Smith, Tech; 
2—McCurdy, Tech; 3-—Green, Jeannette. Time—:10.2.
120-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Mul­
ler, Tech; 2—Stofen, Tech; 3—Shipman, 
Jeannette. Time—:17.4.
880-Yard Run—Won by Gillies, Tech; 
2—Muller, Tech; 3—Holloway, Jeannette. 
Time—2:02.5.
220-Yard Run—Won by Green, Jean« 
nette; 2—Smith, Tech; 3—Miller, Jean* nette. Time—:24.7.
Two-Mile Run—Won by Bryant, Tech;[Continuea on page 6]
50 million times a day 
at home, at work or while at play
There’s 
nothing 
like
1. You feel it*
LIVELINESS.
2. You taste it*
BRIGHT GOODNESS.
fi. You experience
PERFECT REFRESHMENT.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 5Ï23 Center Avenue "11 and 1 :„t|
"Cok*" Il a registered trade-mark.O »953, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

I*C« ft—CARNEGIE TARTAN—April 5, 1955
For Your ARROW Shirts and Tiot
FRANK MEN'S WEAR
5S1« FORBES STREET HA 1-9606 SQUIRREL HILL
Open Tuesday arid Thursday evening*
SN Takes Swim; 
Obelisks Beat BSR
In an intramural swimming meet that was handled by the var­
sity swimming team, the Sigma Nu’s literally swam away with the 
title winning the meet by more thna twenty points, as the second 
place ATO’s edged out the PiKA’s 24 to 22.
The swimming meet was run off4
exceptionally well, and very 
smoothly with members of the 
swimming team acting as judges, 
timers and starters. The meet also 
produced some very good times 
With Venti of Sigma Nu swimming 
the 50 yard dash in 27.8 seconds, 
and Hastings, also of Sigma Nu, 
swimming the 100 yard free style 
in 1:00.6. Of the seven events 
Sigma Nu either won or had mem­
bers of their team place first in 
five.
Team score:
Sigma Nu .................................... 45
ATO............................................. 24
PKA ........................................ 22
DTD.............................................. 20
KS ................................................ 18
Obelisks ...................................... 8
SAE .............................................. 2
PK ................................................ 0
Medley Relay Time
Sigma Nu.............................. 1:36.9
Delta Tau Delta ............... 1:37.8
Kappa Sigma ...................... 1:38.5
Pi Kappa Alpha ................... 1:38.9
Alpha Tau Omega............. 1:44.0
50 Yard Free Style 
Venti, SN.................................... 27.8
Ferguson, ATO........................ 29.6
Marik, SN ................................ 30.0
Hepler, PKA............................ 30.8
Batson, PKA............................ 31.1
50 Yard Breast Stroke
MacDonald, DTD .................. :33.3
Scuilli, SN ............................... :35.5
Keck, KS ................................. :36.7
i Lang, KS ................................. :37.3
Frank, Obelisks ...................... 38.8
100 Yard Free Style
Hastings, SN ........................ 1:00.6
Ritchie, ATO.................. 1:05.0
Nathanson, Obel....................1:05.7
Reuther, PKA....................... 1:05.8
Ferguson, ATO.................... 1:15.0
50 Yard Back Stroke
Barvoets, PKA ...................... :30.5
Renshaw, ATO ..................... :34.3
Horton, KS ............................ :34.6
Solbach, SAE ........................ :36.5
Theobald, PKA...................... :39.8
150 Yard Free Style
Durdaller, SN...................... 1:49.0
Nathanson, Obel.................... 1:58.8
Batson, PKA......................... 2:09.2
Vance, KS ...................•____2:16.0
Aanson, ATO ...................... 2:22.0
200 Yard Medley
Sigma Nu .............................. 1:52.4
Alpha Tau Omega.............. 1:58.0
Delta Tau Delta.................. 2:01.0
Pi Kappa Alpha..................
Kappa Sigma........................
Table Tennis
The Obelisks beat the Beta Sigs 
3 games to 2, to win the champion­
ship. After losing the first two 
singles matches, the Beta Sigs 
came back to win the next two but 
lost the doubles match as Kelsay 
and Less defeated Swedroe and 
Chuck, 21-15, and 22-20. In other 
games Kelsay defeated Keki, 
21-13, .21-17, Less defeated Swed­
roe, 21-14, 21-15, Herman defeated 
Over, 21-18, 24-22, and Chuck de­
feated Offutt 21-15, and 25-23.
Foul Shooting
Team scores:
DU ....................................... 367/500
Obelisks .............................. 334/500
DTD .................................... 334/500
PKA .................................... 327/500
ATO....................................311/500
Track—
[Continued from page 5]
2—P. Bryant; 3—Driscoll. Time—11:18.
120-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Thomas, Jeannette; 2—Smith, Tech; 3— 
Mihum, Tech. Time—:14.6.
Four-Fifths of a Mile Relay—Won by Tech (Heinecke, Muller, Gillies, Dick}. 
Time—2:48.1. '
Discuss—Won by King, Jeannette; 2— 
Jones, Tech; 3—Thomas, J«annete. Dis­
tance—122 feet. 7 inches.
Shot Put—Won by King. Jeannette; 
2—Jones, Tech; 3—Recker, Tech. Dis­tance—-42 feet, 4 Vi inches.
Javelin—Won by Tintettnot, Jean­
nette; 2—Frick, Tech; 3—Fetter, Tech. 
Distance—183 feet, 7 inches.
High Jump—Won by Frank, Tech; 2^- 
Szewc, Tech; 3—King, Jeannette. Dis­
tance—Six feet.
Attention
The Tech volleyball team is 
to compete in the Tri-State 
Volleyball Tournament April 
16, and players are still needed 
to fill out the team. The team 
will compete against Pitt, Du- 
quesne, Slippery Rock, Grove 
City and other Tri-State
Tartan
The sports staff is now un­
dergoing a change of officers 
and a change of staff. All 
those interested in writing on 
the sports staff contact the 
TARTAN by dropping a note 
in the TARTAN box thru in­
traschool mail, or by coming 
up to the TARTAN offices in 
the Union on any Friday be­
tween 7:30-10:00 p.m. Photo­
graphers are also needed by 
the TARTAN. Those interest­
ed in taking action shots con­
tact the TARTAN in the same 
aforementioned manner.
The Scotch and Soda Club has 
been in existence for 13 years.
* * *
Does anyone know what kind 
of vines grow on the stately 
buildings of our .campus?
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN’S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
j&'mke/iA Boj/uee—
WINSTON
brings flavor back to filter smoking!
ARROW GUARDS- 
BRIEFLY, THEY'RE COMFORTABLE
One thing every man wants in underwear is COMFORT I And, 
Arrow has it. Arrow Guards, of fine combed cotton, give firm 
but comfortable support. They keep their shape . . . give 
perfect fit where you sit.
If you prefer a short, Arrow offers the Sprinter model with 
elastic waist-band, or snap-front model shown below. If you 
like fancy paUerns, slip into a pair of Arrow LOVE MATCH 
short» (below right), on« of several Arrow specialty prints. 
Arrow Guards, $1.20. Shorts, $1.50. Fine Arrow T*shirte, $1.25,
SMk WINSTONUt fOALj-dnm)ÌMq -faßten, ciqa/tette.!
EM. N. e
UNDERWEAR
SHIRTS 4 TIES 
WEAR
¦ No wonder Winston’s winning so many 
friends so fast! College smokers found 
flavor in a filter cigarette when they found 
Winston. It’s got real tobacco flavor!
Along with finer flavor, Winston also 
brings you a finer filter. The exclusive 
Winston filter works so effectively, yet 
doesn’t “thin” the taste or flatten the flavor.
WINSTON tastes good-
like a cigarette should!

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page f
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................ ................................... Dolores Neff
Circulation Editor ........................................................................ Jim Soltis
Reporters...............Kathy Galligan, Frank Polma, John Van Holt, Jr.
Moore Of U. S. Steel 
To Address Engineers
The fortieth consecutive annual banquet of the Evening School 
Engineers will be held at‘ the Gateway Plaza, Saturday, May 7, 1955 
at 6:00 p.m.
Mr. E. E. More, vice president and assistant to the president of
U. S. Steel Company, will address*---------------------------—---------------------
the group on the subject of “Lead-
ership Opportunities for Engi­
neers.” Mr. Moore has had a long 
association with, and is a staunch 
supporter of our evening engi­
neering program.
The U. S. Steel Company 
through the U. S. Steel Corpora­
te o n Subsidiaries Scholarship 
Fund has, since its establishment 
in 1946, averaged about 24 full 
evening scholarships each year.
The current evening registra­
tion lists 122 students from U. S. 
Steel and subsidiary companies 
as being enrolled.
Mr. Moore will be introduced 
by Dr. W. N. Jones, vice president 
of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology. Professor Wm. R. Taaffe 
of the graduate school of indus­
trial administration and student 
advisor for the department of in­
dustrial management will be 
toastmaster.
Phi Gamma Pi,
* Evening Sorority? 
Holds Initiation
O^i Sunday, March 27, 1955, at 
the Carnegie Union, the following 
girls were formally initiated into 
the Phi Gamma Pi sorority: Mari­
lyn Phipps and Cleo Mustakis. Pat 
Garrity, who was unable to at­
tend this formal initiation, will be 
initiated at the next meeting. Aft- 
I er a word of welcome by President 
Gini Ross, Mrs. Schwarz gave an 
inspiring talk. She brought out 
the fact that the sorority isn’t for 
the benefit of one group, one 
creed, or one race, but for all 
women evening students.
After the initiation, the girls 
adjourned to the dining-room for 
refreshments. Jean Woods and 
Ellen Gonter were co-chairmen of 
the tea and are to be congratulated 
for the beautiful table decorations.
Veterans
Korean Veterans, check 
with the Veterans Office, 
246-C Administration Hall, to 
make sure you have signed all 
monthly certifications before 
leaving for the summer.
World War n veterans 
graduating in June and in­
tending to enroll in the fall 
for graduate work toward any 
degree must apply for a Cer­
tificate of Eligibility prior to 
the completion of the spring 
semester. Report to the Veter­
ans Office AH 246-C.
Requisition from World 
War II vets for books, sup­
plies. and equipment for this 
semester can not be honored 
by the Bookstore after May 15, 
1955.
All veterans notify the Vet­
erans Office, AH 246-C before 
May 15 if you intend to en­
roll in either of the summer 
sessions or the supplementary 
teim.
CUDDLE BRENDEL'S
1216 Woods Run Ave.
off Brighton Road
DANCING TO JACK MAHON 
ORCHESTRA 
Fridays and Saturdays
Attention!!
Will the person or persons 
who “accidentally” picked up 
five artificial corsages from 
the Plaid office, kindly return 
same. These corsages were to 
be used as gifts at the New­
man Club orphan’s party.
Phi Gamma Pi 
Active In E. S.
During the 1946-47 school year, 
the basic establishment of organ­
ization was undertaken by this 
social sorority. To the founders 
of this organization, the need for 
a group devoted exclusively to 
women evening students was of 
paramount importance.
The success of this sorority is 
attested by the fact that it is rec­
ognized by both Evening Student 
Council and the administration of 
Carnegie Tech.
Through evening social func­
tions, friendships are fostered 
among women evening students. 
Aid and support of Evening Stu­
dent Council sponsored activities 
is a trade mark of this very fine 
group due to their cognizance of 
the need for extra-curricular ac­
tivities for evening students.
Selection of members is con­
ducted during the second semester 
of the school year for students de­
siring membership. Pledged mem­
bers must be in attendance at 
opening classes during the school 
semester preceding rushing and 
must maintain at least average 
grades.
No restriction is placed upon as­
piring members as to race or re­
ligion. In truth, and in fact, this 
is an organization that practices 
democracy in every sense of the 
word.
Newman Club Has 
Round Table Talk 
On Married Life
On Sunday evening, March 27, 
the Evening School Newman Club 
held its fifth in a series of Lenten 
discussions. At all the past meet­
ings a speaker was present; how­
ever, being unable to obtain a 
speaker for this particular meet­
ing, the group held a round table 
discussion on various aspects of 
marriage.
One of the main topics under 
fire was, “Should a husband assist 
his wife in her domestic duties?” 
The opinions heard were very in­
teresting. The single people, who 
are in the majority, expressed 
their views based on what they 
thought would be the ideal mar­
riage. However, the married peo­
ple counselled them as to how 
the conditions actually exist.
Carnival Calls
If any group on Tech’s cam­
pus desires to' make a call or 
any type of award on Call 
Day, Friday, May 6, please 
contact Mary Lynch, co-chair­
man of the event, immediate­
ly. Please be able to give her 
the name of the person who 
will make the call or award. 
This does not refer to any 
group which has already been 
contacted.
Auto Engineers
On Wednesday, April 20, at 
7:30 p.m., the Society of Auto­
motive Engineers on campus 
will have a meeting on sports 
cars. The speaker is H. S. 
Schuck-Kolben, former Mer­
cedes and Bugatti team driver.
NAPOLEON LOOKING AT SELF IN HIGH MIRRORWillem Maurits Lange, 111 
Syracuse University
END VIEW OF THOUSAND MILES OF VERY STRAIGHT WIREOsvaldo Bacchetta 
Southern Illinois University
YOU’LL GET A BANG out of the Droodle above. The title is: Daredevil enjoy­
ing better-tasting Lucky just before being shot from cannon. Luckies are 
going great guns everywhere. The reason for their booming popularity is 
simply this: Luckies give you better taste. They taste better, first of all, 
because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco is toasted 
to taste better. “Ifs Toasted”—the famous Lucky Strike process—tones up 
Luckies’ light, mild, good-tasting tobacco to make it taste even better . . . 
cleaner, fresher, smoother. Enjoy yourself when you smoke. Have a little 
fun. Light up the better-tasting cigarette . .. Lucky Strike.
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
COLLEGE SMOKERS
PREFER LUCKIES!
vW s/'
Luckies lead all other brands in 
colleges—and by a wide margin- 
according to an exhaustive, coast- 
to-coast college survey. Hie No. 
1 reason: Luckies taste better.
<ÜD>
13ette/i taste Luckies...
CHECK THAT BOUNCED
Nancy Master son U.CX.A.
BUTTON SEEN THROUGH BUTTONHOLEGerry Davis 
Richmond Professional Instituto
LUCKIES TASK BETTER CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!
*A.T.Co. noDVCt or J&rt€U€<vn America’s leading manufacturer of cigarettes

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—April 5, 1955
LET'S 60 TO
ISA LY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
5808 FORBES STREET
SQUIRREL HILL
3714 FORBES STREET
OAKLAND
Three Stores in the College 
District
Main Plant:
3380 BLVD. of the ALLIES
Buy
CHESTERFIELD
TodayI
 Largest selling cigarette 
in America's colleges
IN THE WHOLE 
WIDE WORLD_
You’ll SMILE your approval
of Chesterfield’s smoothness— 
mildness—refreshing taste.
You*!! SMILE your approval
of Chesterfield’s quality— 
highest quality—low nicotine.
2________________________________________________________________-
NO CIGARETTE SATISFIES LIKE CHESTERFIELD <(
CLkmot * Mrw To*acoo Ca
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS
• TRY US FIRST •
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Extremely High Discounts 
and Trade In Allowances
Arranged For Carnegie Tech
Students and 
Faculty Members
On New 1955 Ford Automobiles and Used Cars of Every Type
Contact Wally Donghne
103 Welch Hall — Box 337 CIT
MU 3-0242
Omicron Nil, Home 
Economics Group, 
Invites Four Girls
Omicron Nu, national home eco­
nomics honorary, invited four 
junior girls to membership re­
cently. These girls were Shirley 
Wilson, Lou Ann Bryant, Barbara 
Kerr, and Peggy Heatly.
Membership in this honorary 
is based on scholastic achieve­
ment. Each Sprinp the first 10% 
scholastically of the Junior class 
is initiated. The following fall the 
first 20% is of the senior class 
is included in the membership.
The announcement of the new 
members was made at a tea gjven 
at the Carnegie Union by Omi­
cron Nu honoring all home eco­
nomics girls with high scholastic 
records.
tContinued from page 2] 
decided to look elsewhere for a 
more suitable project.
The lack of uniformity in fra­
ternity elections has made CFP a 
very fluid body. The constant 
change in personnel has been det­
rimental to the work of Council’s 
standing committees, in order to 
eliminate this wekness the Consti­
tution Committee presented a se­
ries of amendments to the consti­
tution on which in effect control 
the time of appointment of the 
fraternities’ second representatives 
to the Council and make this jun­
ior representative a more import­
ant position on Council. The latter 
was brought about by proposed 
changes in the qualifications for 
the various Council affairs that 
make these offices open to junior 
representatives. In accordance 
with the constitution these amend­
ments must be included in the 
Nmiutes before they can be acted 
upon.
Religious Activities
Tuesday, April 5
Lutheran Students Association: Dinner meeting at 6:00 at St. 
Andrew’s Church, corner of Morewood and Centre. The program 
will feature Pasto Grunberg speaking on “Easter Meditation.”
Tech Christian Fellowship: 11:30 a.m. in AH 123F—"Continued 
Studies on Peter.”
Westminster Foundation: Dinner meeting 5:30-7:30 at the Belle- 
field Presbyterian Church. “Singspiration and Fellowship.” 
Wednesday, April 6 
Lutheran Students Association and Teknon Club will sponsor 
the SCF Holy Week worship service at Carnegie Union at 7:30 a.m.
Thursday, April 7 
Wesley Fellowship and Roger Williams Fellowship will sponsor 
the SCF Holy Week worship service at Carnegie Union at 7:30 a.m.
Tech Christian Fellowship: 11:30 a.m. in AH 132F—discussion 
led by Charles Heummel, Intervarsity Christian Fellowship East­
ern Secretary.
Wednesday, April 13
Wesley Fellowship will hold a Korean style dinner at 6:00 p.m. 
at the First Methodist Church, corner of Centre and Aiken. The 
meal will be directed by Ernie Shin.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday, April 15, 16, 17 
Westminster Foundation Annual Spring Retreat at Camp Crest- 
view on the subject, “What is Your Quality Point ” Platform 
speaker will be Dr. David N. Freedman, professor of the Old 
Testament. Paul Rahmaier, Student Work Associate of the Evan­
gelical and Reformed Church will also aid in the discussion.
Saturday, Sunday, April 16, 17 
YMCA-YWCA Retreat at Camp Kon-O-Kwee on the subject, 
“You and World Affairs.” The main speaker will be Mr. Robert 
Schwarz, assistant professor of history at Tech. Professor and Mrs. 
Robert Daniel will also accompany the group.
Monday, April 18 
Westminster Foundation Seminar at 1:30 p.m. in AH 132F. The 
Rev. E. Vincent Stratton will be the group leader and Jim Morrison 
the discussion leader on the subject, “The People of the Law.”Patronne Our Ad ''
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSDick Bibier
