The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 8, November 6, 1984.
By KAREN CERRONI
Tartan Staffwriter
Due to Memorex and Control Data Cor­
onations recent $300,000 contribution to 
he Magnetics Technology Center at CMU, 
he center is finally being recognized.
Since human efficiency depends more 
ach day on a computer’s ability to store, 
etrieve, and process information, research 
increase the efficiency of these operations 
écornes more important. Magnetism aids 
he process of storing information in the 
omputer. Information is imprinted on to 
ie incredibly thin magnetic coatings of 
apes and “floppy” discs.
One of the major purposes of the Center 
to discover how to pack more information 
ito less space. As a result of this research, 
mputer systems would become more in- 
pensive, compact, durable and easy to use. 
addition to these objectives, more esoteric 
als are being pursued: the effects of lasers 
magnetic fields and-endowing bubble 
emory chips with logic.
CMU is one of three academic research 
inters specializing in magnetic information 
hnology in the United States. Although 
agnetic storage devices have opened up a 
industry—a $20 billion-a-year industry
growing at a rate of 20% a year—there is 
a lack of American research in this field.
According to the Pittsburgh Press, Mark 
Kryder, the center’s director and a professor 
of electrical and computer engineering at 
CMU says, “Industry is screaming for ad­
vancements, but American schools are not 
turning out properly trained researchers, 
and they are not equipped to study the pro­
blems.”
The Center is located in the basement of 
Hammerschlag Hall. $1.6 million of the $3 
million CMU spent to start the center, went 
to creating the “clean room.” In this highly 
filtered atmosphere, workers wear protective 
white jumpsuits, boots, and hoods to keep 
form contaminating the room with dirt and 
hair. Because the researchers often work with 
features smaller than one micron there is the 
danger of particles destroying months of 
hard work.
Alfred Bortz, assistant director of the 
center, believes research in this field requires 
a great deal of cooperation among scientific 
disciplines. Because this rarely happens in 
universities, problem arise. “And magnetics 
i is an old field and people tend to think all 
¡its problems have been solved,’’Bortz said.
fa this issue
photo by Evan McDonnell 
Superb team cooperation was a major factor as the Tartans won the Pennwood 
volleyball championship. See story, page 11.
A Phi O accepting 
locker signups
A Phi O is currently accepting registra­
tion forms from students who wish to occupy 
one of the approximately 200 lockers newly 
made available as part of its on going Locker 
Registration project. Those students without 
a locker who wish to occupy one must place 
a lock on it and register the locker with A 
Phi O within two weeks. A Locker Registra­
tion table will be in Skibo this week. After 
Friday, November 9 registrants must submit 
their forms at the A Phi O office, Rm. 54, 
Skibo. Only one locker is allowed per 
student.
Those students who have been evicted fro m 
a locker for failure to register must leave 
a note at the A Phi O office or at the 
mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk, ta 
reclaim their possessions. The note must in­
clude the student s name, telephone number 
and previous locker number.
ews
uclear freeze.........................................page 3
judent Senate...........................................page 4
Mures
ty scholarship..............................page 5
f^miyiist Gus Hall..............................page 5
ate*tainment
|rbes Gallery............................................page 7
fakespeare...........................................page 7
arts
•all takes title............................page 11
otball season ends...........................page 11
storiai
decision..........................................page 18
piiuiu Luuucay ui i nt: riuji/ufg/i
Chris Bowman wears special suit for clean room
Pi Lambda brother falls three 
floors through Sigma skylight
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
A Pi Lambda brother was injured after 
falling through a skylight in the roof of 
Sigma Nu House in the evening of Saturday, 
October 27.
The incident arose as a result of a dispute 
between Theta Xi alumni and Pi Lambda 
Phi. Several Theta Xi alumni allegedly caus­
ed a disturbance at Pilam by throwing 
pumkins on Saturday night while Halloween 
parties were in progress.
A Pilam brother, under the impression 
that the disturbance was caused by Sigma 
Nu brothers, climbed on to Sigma Nu’s roof 
and accidentally broke through the skylight, 
falling three floors.
Pi Lambda Phi Vice President Rob Rivera 
refused to comment on the incident pending 
IFC court hearings, except to state that the 
Pilam brother has been released from 
Shadyside Hospital with only minor injuries, 
and that no charges have been filed by 
Sigma Nu against Pi Lambda Phi.
photo Dy Heather McCarty
Pi Lamda Phi
Magnetics increase computer memory

---------------------------------------------------

mi

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1984—The Tartan—Pege 3
Ade!man supports Reagan, opposes nuclear freeze
Dr. Kenneth Adelman is Director of the 
US Arras Control and Disarmament Agen­
cy. His agency formulates and implements 
US arms control policy, participates in 
negotiations with the Soviet Union, prevents 
the spread of nuclear weapons, and 
monitors the arms trade throughtout the 
world.
The following interview was culled from 
about half an hour, of taped discussion bet­
ween Dr. Adelman and USPS Executive 
Editor Jim Lucier.
USPS — Why don’t you like the idea of a 
nuclear freeze?
Dr. Adelman: A freeze would lock us into 
our current situation, a situation in which 
there is an inequitable and unstable 
distribution of weapons on both sides. It 
would also lock in the current high levels of 
weapons on both sides.
What President Reagan wants to do is 
have deep reductions, especially in those 
weapons which are most destabilizing. A 
freeze would leave the number of destabiliz­
ing weapons way too high. It wouldn’t 
change anything.
There are a number of instabilities built 
into the system right now. We put tremen­
dous emphasis, for instance, on land-based 
ICBM forces, which are tempting targets for 
a first strike. That’s a destabilizing situation, 
yet a freeze would lock us into it.
What we want is an arms control ap­
proach that would cut back on destabiliz­
ing elements and emphasize the more 
stabilizing elements.
At any rate, I think Dr. Zbignew Brezezin- 
sky, the last Democratic National Security 
Adviser, was absolutely right when he said 
that the nuclear freeze was a hoax. It’s not 
verifiable, and it’s not achievable.
It’s not verifiable because there’s no way
to monitor production of nuclear weapons. 
Production is easily done in factories and in 
areas that we could never check. So we have 
no way at all to verify a freeze on production.
The freeze is a hoax because it leads peo­
ple to believe that there is a simple and quick 
answer to the nuclear dilemma.
We’ve tried a freeze once already. It was 
a freeze only on launchers, not on strategic 
weapons and certainly not on all nuclear 
weapons. We called it SALT I and it took 
two and a half years to negotiate.
Any negotiation is a long and difficult 
process. It’s better we spent the time and ef­
fort on acheiving deep, real more stabiliz­
ing reductions rather than on locking in to­
day’s high levels of destabilizing weapons. 
USPS — On a Saturday morning not too 
long ago, Secretary of State George Shultz 
and Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger 
both appeared on national TV and said that 
the Soviets have violated the ABM Treaty, 
which until recently was considered the most 
successful, and, perhaps, the only unviolated 
arms control treaty. Though there have been 
whispers of treaty violations for quite some 
time, dating back even to the Carter years, 
these are the first high-ranking government 
officials to directly accuse the Soviets of 
cheating. Now the Reagan Administration 
is about to release a formal report detailing 
Soviet treaty violations. Could you outline 
some of these alleged violations for us?
Dr. Adelman: The President issued a 
classified version of that report to Congress 
last January. It included seven issues, most 
notably possible conflict between the ABM 
Treaty and the radar installation at 
Krasnoyarsk. It’s all very disturbing, because 
we believe that arms control is not effective 
without compliance on both sides.
USPS — But more specifically, what are 
these violations?
Dr Adelman: A list of violations would in­
clude use of chemical weapons in Southeast 
Asia and Afghanistan, violation of the 
Helsinki Accords, testing of two new ICBM’s 
even though SALT II only allows one, en­
cryption of telemetry, and the Krasnoyarsk 
radar, which may set the stage for a nation­
wide ABM system —
USPS — You’re specifically saying 
Krasnoyarsk could be a “battle manage­
ment” radar which would track incoming 
missiles for some sort of strategic defense? 
Dr. Adelman: Yes.
USPS — Well, what about encryption, 
which simply makes overall verification of 
an agreement much harder. Is that a direct 
treaty violation, or is it just one of those fuzzy 
areas?
Dr. Adelman: We believe the Soviets are not
adhering to their commitments under SALT
II. *
USPS — If the Krasnoyarsk radar is, in fact, 
the beginning of a Soviet strategic defense 
effort, would the Reagan Administration use 
it and other treaty violations to justify full- 
scale development and deployment of its 
own “Star Wars” or strategic defense 
proposals?
Dr. Adelman: No. We just want the Soviets 
to stop their violations.
USPS — Then why do we have a Strategic 
Defense Initiative anyway?
Dr. Adelman: The Strategic Defense In­
itiative is a long range research program 
designed to see how technological progress 
could get us out of the nuclear dilemma that 
we’re in today with Mutual Assured Destruc­
tion as the basis of our security.
THE
SECOND CITY
SPECIAL
CLEVELAND£
UTH BEND
TOLEDO—$30
CHICAGO—$50
MILWAUKEE (via Greyhound from Chicago, $20) 
DETROIT (via Greyhound from Toledo, $20)
The BEST way to get home this Thanksgiving is by BUS
—SIGN UP ON THE RIDE 
BOARD. Do it soon! There s not 
much time left...
—PAY A $5.00 DEPOSIT IN 
SKIBO GREY MATTER on 
Wednesday, Nou. 7 between 
4.30-5:30 p.m. If you can't 
make it, call Steve at 681-7431 to 
make other arrangements. 
(Late evenings only.)
—PAY IN FULL NO LATER 
THAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 
19. Time and place to be- an­
nounced. Passengers are en­
couraged to pay their fares in 
full as soon as, possible
See the Skibo Ride Board 
for more details.
Traveling home for the holidays was never easier, or more fun.
First Spring Carnival 
Booth Meeting
November 8, 1984 
8 PM 
Wherrett Room
All interested organizations 
must attend
DELICIOUS HOMEMADE FOOD!
GREAT TASTE AT A GREAT PRICE!
FUSCA’S PIZZA 
“THE SQUARE PIZZA”
Pepperoni, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onion, Olives,
Green Pepper, Hot Peppers, Anchovies
‘Our Pizza Dough and Hoagie Rolls are Made Fresh Daily”
PIZZA
Large — 16 cut...5.00 
Medium — 9 cut...3.00 
Small — 4 cut... 1.40 
Single cut...40*
HOAGIES
Italian... 3.00 
Meatball... S. 00 
Hot Sausage...3.00 
Steak...2.00 
Provalone. ..1.55
SPECIALTY
Lasagne...3.00 
Stuffed Shells...3.00 
Eggplant Parmagania...3.00 
Salad... 1.00 
Homemade Bread...25*
SOUPS
Minnestroni... 1.7 5 
Esc arol... 1.75 
Chicken Noodle...1.75
TAX NOT INCLUDED
--------“1
COUPON
FREE 1 LITER OF POP WITH 
A LARGE PI2ZA, OR A MEDIUM 
WITH 1 OR MORE TOPPINGS.
OPEN
MON — THURS dll Midnight 
FRI — SAT dll 2 AM
"We Deliver All Day Long" 
Between CMU and Pitt Campoaea
4628 FORBES AVE 
PHONE 682-8656 for delivery
• Free Delivery on orders oveT 5.00 — Limited delivery area

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—November 6, 1984
Minutes of the Student Senate 
October SO, 1984
The meeting was called to order at 7:04 PM.
Present: Bach, Bett, Bostin, Carpenter, Chu, Cohen,
Cor less, DeBroff, Denburg, Goldstein, Frank, Jagerski, 
McCormick, Mukheijee, Pane, Piscitello, Roc her, Salley, 
Searing, Soller, Taylor, Weller, Cox, Miller, Kaplan, 
Utaski
Absent: Duer, Nichols, Rizza, Dean Walter, Bruno
Late: Volan
Minutes: Approved as written.
Audience Participation: None.
Dean Walter: No report.
Dean Cox: The registrar will come to a future meeting
to discuss the enrollment and registration processes. 
President: Still wants feedback on raised housing
deposit and new security deposit for next year.
SDC: The Clipper Ship Dance will take place Nov. 2.
[FC: IPC supports a Senate independent, investigation
of the UDC’s decision to revoke ZBT’s charter. 
Chairman: No report.
Vice-Chair: No report.
Treasurer: No report.
Rules: The Rangers Club has requested non-funded
recognition.
Question from Senator: Why was it requested?
Answer from Rangers rep.: To be seen as a group out­
ride of ROTC, a real organization on campus. 
Question: Is the club only for ROTC members?
Answer: Anyone may join; mostly ROTC members are
interested since ROTC classes are required. _____
Vote for recognition: Passed.
The Philosophy Club was voted by the committeee 
to be changed from funded to non-funded status 
because there are currently no scheduled lectures or ac­
tivities. Club rep. stated that the club can't offer 
honoraria to speakers until the club budget is ratified 
and the amount with which they have to work is known. 
There are weekly meetings and ads in The Tàrtan. 
Vote for change in status: Aye: 10, Nay: 7. Passed. 
The L-5 club has requested non-funded recognition. 
Question: How many members are there?
Answer[from rep.): 14 paid members, 10 non-paid.
Vote for non-funded recognition: Passed
unanimously.
The IPC Committe for Greek and Non-Greek Involve­
ment has provided the requested member list.
The Skydiving Club has requested a change from 
non-funded to funded status to partially subsidize the 
cost of its events.
Vote for a change in status: Passed unanimously. 
The Cat’s Pajamas has requested funded status. 
Question: What form will this lampoon be in, and
how will it be distributed?
Answer: Magazine form, hand distributed to
respondents of ads for subscriptions.
Question: Will there be a charge?
Answer: Hopefully not; it should be carried by ads.
Vote for funded status: Passed unanimously. 
Elections will be Nov. IS and 14. Dean Cox: Why are 
the polls scheduled to be open until 9 PM on the se- 
cond day? You will need time to tally the votes._____
An Ivi/ Leugne Spring in New York
Qualified juniors are invited to apply for admission to Columbia 
College as visiting students beginning in late January 1985. Full 
access to housing, library resources, and upper division courses. 
For further information and an application, write or call:
Columbia College Admissions Office 
212 Hamilton Hall 
New York, New York 10027 
(212) 280-2521
Motion to close the polls at 6:00 PM Wrd. 11/14; Vote: 
Passed.
Open seats are as follows: CIT — 5 seats, CFA — 
3 seats, SUPA — 1 seat, MCS — S seats, H&SS — 2 
seats, GSIA — 1 seat.
Question by Cindy Taylor: Why is the petition due
date 11/10? That doesn’t leave enough time for can­
didates to get information and photos to The Thrtan. 
Answer by Eric Rocher: People will have to turn in
their information before their nomination is confirm­
ed, on 11/9.
Academic Affairs: The Education Affairs Council
meeting included the following subjects:
C-DEC will be deploying terminals as the system is 
developed. As of now, there are no plans for students 
to have to buy them.
The Student Advisory Committee for Core Cur­
riculum had the following ideas:
1. A writing course requirement for all freshmen, no 
exemptions except for a 5 on the AP exam. 60% of the 
students would have “Strategies for Writing” and 40% 
would have an advanced writing course (mostly those 
who are currently exempt).
2. An “Introduction to Computing at CMU” course 
requirement to be either 6 or 9 units. If designed to 
be 9 units, it would replace the current 15-118 
requirement.
3. Regarding the PCE’s, there was an article in Focus 
and the Fencepost, and a blurb in The Thrtan. Students 
should know the outcome.
4'. There is a possibility of having a Karate Club night 
course; it is being looked into.
5. The Ryan Awara Committee is looking into im­
provements on campus. A resolution is proposed as 
follows: Whereas 5% of the population and therefore 
5% of the CMU community is left-handed, be it resolv­
ed in the Student Senate assembled to recommend to 
the Ryan Award Committee to purchase left-handed 
desks for classrooms and to incorporate left-handed 
desks in the future lecture halls. Vote on resolution: 
Passed.
Opinions were requested regarding the afore­
mentioned Introduction to Computing course.
Tamal Mukhetjee: Had a friend who was lost in 15-111 
after 2 weeks; maybe there is too much push in that
course.
Shep Bostin: Would any exception to the requirement 
be available? Answer (from AA): No.
Hilary DeBroff: Would this be a theory course? 
Answer: More hands-on learning, though the subject 
is still being debated.
Steve Volan: Hands-on learning of SCRIBE, EMACS, 
etc. is important. Requirements should be dropped for
THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
FAIRCHILD SCHOLARS
PROGRAM
A unique way to earn 
your M.S. or Ph.D. in 
electrical engineering.
Work 3 days a week at 
full salary; study 2 days a 
week under full 
fellowship.
Apply today if you have a 
B.S. (in science or 
engineering), the 
background for E.E. 
study, and a G.P.A. 
above 3.2 (4.0 scale).
To apply, write or call 
Prof. Anthony Ephremides, director 
of the Fairchild Program, 
Department of Electrical 
Engineering, The University of 
Maryland, College Park, MD 
20742. Phone (301) 454-6199/ 
6845/6871. U.S. citizenship 
required before employment 
begins.
Or contact the Fairchild Program 
representative when he visits your 
campus:
DATE: NOVEMBER 16, 1984
TIME: 9:00 - 4:30
PLACE: CAREER SERVICES & PLACEMENT
A Cooperative Partnership 
of Fairchild Industries and 
The University of Maryland
15-118 and 15-111, actually introductions to 
programming.
Dean Cox: It is dangerous to have anything with no 
exemptions. Reply by AA: The administration thinks 
all colleges should mingle in one big course required 
for everyone.
Jackie Piscitello: It wouldn’t be a course where 
students could socialize. Would it be a change from 
“Computer Utilization”? Answer from AA: Computer 
history, computer ethics, and logic would be added. 
GCfcl: Lisa Bruno and John Searing regrettably
resigned at the committee meeting.
The pictures taken two weeks ago still aren’t ready yet. 
The results of the survey aren’t ready to be published. 
Finance: Request for funding for the Ultimate Frisbee
Club. There has been a change in fiscal policy regar­
ding uniforms; the first $25 per person will no longer 
be funded.
According to the representative of the club, there are 
20-25 members; the planned activities this semester in­
clude two games with Penn State, one there and one 
here (the one here has already been played). There will 
be more planned for Spring.
Vote on funding: Passed unanimously.
Changes in fiscal policy resulting in Constitutional 
changes will be voted on next week, now tabled. 
Old Business: None.
New Business: Amendment to the Constitution
Bylaws regarding the duties of the Chairman propos 
ed, tables for one week (according to procedure).
Peter Cohen proposed the following resolution:
“Zeta Beta Tau, though having been much malign­
ed recently, still must be considered to be a viable, and 
a purposeful serving entity at CMU. With its pledges 
and brothers, Zeta Beta Tau makes up an important 
minority of the CMU community. The recent expul 
sion of Zeta Beta Tau from CMU creates a void in cam 
pus life that will be greatly missed. Student Senate 
wishes and hopes that the administration’s decision to 
revoke Zeta Beta Tau’s charter was one made on sound 
reasoning, and because this expulsion is such a serious 
one, Student Senate wishes to conduct an independent 
investigation into the actions that led to this expulsion
We move that an independent committee be form­
ed to investigate this situation. Let it be further moved 
that Student Senate requests that no actions from the 
administration be taken until this committee submits 
a final report to the appeal board. A report shall also 
be submitted to Senate.
No members of ZBT shall serve on this committee
The report shall be finished by November 9 and sub­
mitted to the Appeal Board.” (This resolution is com 
plete with accepted friendly amendments.)
Discussion: John Pane (after passing gavel to Vice 
Chair): This is a knee-jerk reaction. I have faith in the 
disciplinary committee; this doesn’t seem to do much 
except meddling into the affair.
Reply by Peter Cohen: This isn’t a knee-jerk reac 
tion. It’s not meant to be denegrating to the adminstra- 
tion. Many students are interested to know what 
happened.
Hilary DeBroff, Vice-Chair (after returning gavel to 
chair): I don’t know that this investigation would help.
Dean Cox: There could be a report of the UDC’s 
reason at the next meeting. Usually, UDC meetings are 
not publicized. This is a special case, but there is an 
effort to keep charges, meetings, and outcomes secret 
Steve Volan: Press influence is something to think 
about.
John Searing: We should also look at the Koren 
Students Association. Peter Cohen’s reply: ZBT was kick 
ed off campus, not the Korean Students Association.
(Above discussion is edited from actual discussion; 
main intent and salient points, in the opinion of the 
secretary, have been preserved.
The question was called: No objections.
Vote on resolution: Passed.
Michael Bett obtained volunteers for the investigative 
committee.
General Discussion: None.
Announcements: Committee meetings announced
Meeting adjourned at 8:04.
These minutes to be approved at tonight’s meeting 
Respectfully submitted,
Leslie Frank, Secretary_____________________
Unflajj
ALLEGHENY WOMEN’S 
CENTER '
an out patient medical clink offering
• Abortion*—asleep or awake
• Morning After Treatment
• Birth Control
• Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920 _
nâi
Ueghmy^^^
omen s «« ***»«*
Center_
pa pajap WOWWM-W» _

---------------------------------------------------

features.
McCurdy Scholarship to be awarded
raphic Design student picked to receive $1000
v KAREN WOODILLA
rartan Staffwriter
Christopher Johnson, a Junior Graphic 
ign student at CMU, is the 1984 recipient 
if the 1984 Alumni Association’s McCurdy 
cholarship. The $1000 award is given an- 
ally to a CMU junior or senior based on 
cademic achievement, campus activities, 
iotential, and financial aid.
Johnson applied for the scholarship last 
ring by filling out an application and 
riting an essay about CMU. The Alumni 
¿viewing committee examined applica- 
ons, essays, transcripts, and interviewed the 
p three candidates.
“We all met for dinner and talked. The 
umni are all really successful in their fields 
d owning their own businesses,” says 
nson. “One alumnus was in computer 
ded design and I learned a lot talking with 
m about the field. Later they interviewed 
seperately.” Johnson will receive the 
olarship this spring at commencement. 
| The scholarship is named for Robert G. 
cCurdy, a previous Director of Alumni 
Rations, by fellow family, alumni, staff, 
id friends to commencerate his distinguish - 
service and contributions to CMU. 
Johnson is most interested in typography 
|d computer aided design. He has used his 
Ills in summer jobs for public relations and 
[nual report design.
Chris Johnson is the recipient of the 1984 McCurdy Scholarship.
Hall chosen Communist Party candidate
By MICHAEL HOFF
Special to The Tartan
To many Americans, communism con­
jures up images of supression, Big Brother,
umor research nets Jain ternational recognition
KATRIN WESNERn Staffwriter
r. Rakesh K. Jain, a professor of 
mical and biomedical engineering, has 
eived the International Institute of 
crocirculation Research Award for his 
earch on blood flow and transport in 
ors that might eventually improve their 
atment. The award was presented to Dr.
at the meeting of the 3rd World Con- 
ss for Microcirculation at the Blenheim 
ace, near Oxford, England. This award 
l^iven every four years when the World 
gress meets, 
ain’s research looked at the blood flow 
in normal and cancerous tissue, and 
movement of molecules (e.g. drugs) 
ss blood vessel walls. The studies were 
ducted on rabbit’s ears that had been 
:ially prepared. The focus was to find out 
it happens to the blood flow rate when 
area was subjected to heat or various
chemicals, and to find out if the molecules 
moved faster or slower.
Jain commented that research for the 
future includes trying to understand the 
mechanisms of changes of why the blood 
flow rate goes up or down. In addition he 
will explore “new ideas for delivering drugs 
to the tumors using liposomes (artificial 
cells).” Also he plans to look into photoradia­
tion therapy, which is the “excitation of drug 
molecules with lasers.”
This research is conducted in the cancer 
research lab of the department of Chemical 
Engineering in Doherty Hall. Dr. Jain credits 
his “very good team of graduate students 
who work on these projects.” He currently 
has a team of five doctoral students work­
ing with him: Leonard Gerlowski, Kimber­
ly Hartley, Victoria Rebar, DeAnne Martin, 
and Michelle Young, along with Darlene 
Schultz, a technician, and a large team of 
undergraduate students.
Gus Hall
and a Soviet-style society. But if you look at 
today’s Communist Party U.S.A., you will 
realize that that is a gross misconception.
Communist Party U.S.A.’s candidate is, 
for the fourth time, retired steel worker Gus 
Hall. Hall, a Navy veteran who spent eight 
years in prison during the McCarthy era, 
received national attention in 1937 for 
organizing the “little steel strike” which pro­
vided union ranking for smaller steel cor­
porations left out of the unionization of 
larger steel firms.
His running mate is Angela Davis, a 
teacher at San Francisco State University. 
Davis received national attention in the 70’s 
when she was acquitted of a murder charge 
for which she was reportedly framed. She is 
co chair of the National Alliance Against 
Racism.
Foreign Policy
The party line on foreign policy is as 
follows: they support a bilateral nuclear 
freeze and a “No first strike” declaration as 
has already been promised by the Soviet 
Union. They call for a halt to U.S. interven­
tion in Central America, Lebanon, and 
other world trouble spots. Also in the plat­
form is a call to end all support to South 
Africa because of that nation’s inhumane 
racist policies.
Domestic Policies
Domestic policy is the major target for 
reform. The party platform calls for massive 
federal programs to heal the economy, 
reduce unemployment, and rebuild crumbl­
ing cities. Federal money would be used to 
renovate slum areas and construct new hous­
ing and low-rent housing projects. The 
federal government would also establish a 
National Youth Act to supply jobs and job 
training for teens.
The domestic platform also calls for an 
immediate 25% increase in social security 
benefits, full unemployment benefits, a $50 
billion program to clean up air and water 
polution, a National Health Act to provide 
the proper medical attention for all citizens, 
and free quality education including college. 
Federally-funded, child-care programs are 
also in the platform.
How could all this be paid for? The 
answer is massive tax reform. The party calls 
for a repeal of tax breaks given to the 
wealthy and corporations. The feel that 
these groups do not pay nearly their fair 
share of taxes. There would be a repeal of 
the Reagan taxbreaks which, according to 
the party, only benefit the wealthy. In­
dividuals making lass than $30,000 a year
would pay no federal income tax.
More money would be obtained for these 
programs by freeing funds wasted on existing 
expenditures. The party platform calls for 
a moratorium on the $120 million interest 
payment owed to banks and verifiable 
reductions of nuclear stockpiles which are 
gathering dust and costing millions to 
maintain.
Another domestic change would be to cut 
the workday to six hours with no cut in pay. 
This measure would help to create new jobs.
Feeling that basic industries (i.e., steel, 
automobile, rubber, energy, and machine 
building) have failed to operate well under 
capitalism, the party desires a public take­
over of these industries. The industries 
would be run jointly by communities, labor 
unions, and local legislatures — the hope be­
ing that this would result in greater produc­
tivity and stability of the work force. Under 
capitalism, these industries have been inef­
ficient, unresponsive to the workers because 
of an emphasis on profit, and incapable of 
providing sound, stable employment.
Communist Party U.S.A. is filled with 
realists — they know they have no chance of 
winning this election. They are making their 
platform known through media ads to per­
suade people to vote against Reagan because 
they feel that he is undermining the basic 
structure of democracy. His ultra-right views 
leave the door wide open for big business to 
control the government and people of the 
nation. They feel that policy, because of 
Reagan, can be dictated by the events, 
needs, and whims of powerful corporations, 
and that the majority of Americans — the 
working class—will be trampled over by the 
tax breaks and favoritism given to big 
business. Their main goal this election is to 
increase voter awareness of the unfair and 
costly programs and policy of Preident 
Reagan.
Puzzle Answer

---------------------------------------------------

BENJM4IN 
F E4IRLESS 
^MEMORIAL 
LECTURES
Carnegie-Mellon University
presents the 
1984 Benjamin F. Fairless Lecture
"From a $500 Company 
to a 
Global Corporation"
delivered by Akio MoritaPreaidenp and Chief Execupive Officer, Sony Corp.
Tuesday, November 6, 1984 
5:00 p.m, Skibo Ballroom
Admiaaion ia free 
Tickepa are available in phe 
Public Relapiona Office 
5017 Forbea Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
1 AMyriad surfaces
Painting and sculpture 
to be exibited at Forbes
No Small Affair
Laura Victor looks sultry as Charles Cummings snaps her picture by the Golden Gate Bridge in No SmaL 
Iff air. Victor (Demi Moore) is a luckless aspiring rock’n’roll singer pursued by Cummings (Jon Cryer), 
sixteen-year-old amateur photographer in this soon-to-be-released romantic comedy._____________
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to the Tartan
The art work of Nancy Barton, Rob 
Cook, and Roger Hartung is the subject of 
this week’s exhibition at the Forbes Gallery. 
Although the subject matter of each artist 
is unique, all three are architecture students 
who have found a connection to architecture 
through art. Their exhibition of painting 
and sculpture opens this evening at 7:00.
Nancy Barton is returning from a 
semester’s hiatus from school to exhibit at 
the gallery. Barton is interested in explor­
ing texture and pattern in her jewelry and 
sculpture. Her sculpture frequently employs 
electronic parts and other found objects to 
create myriad surfaces.
“Nancy’s sculpture a lot of times has more 
surfaces than you can perceive at one time,” 
says fellow exhibitor Roger Hartung.
Rob Cook is also a sculptor. Cook often 
explores curvilinear shapes in his work in an 
effort to “get away from the rigidness of ar­
chitecture.”
“I like to work in organic shapes,” says 
Cook, who works in bronze, marble, and 
wood. In his piece The Ear, Cook has ex­
plored complex curves and undulations in 
walnut.
“In The Ear I formed the piece somewhat 
by reading the grain in the wood,” says Cook. 
“There was a dialogue between the material 
and the original idea.” Cook believes that 
this “dialogue” happens in a number of his
pieces. “Many times the sculpture will evolve 
as I go,” says Cook.
Cook sees his work as an examination and 
investigation of texture, form, and shape. “I 
just want people to observe and get what 
they can from my work,” says Cook. “I don’t 
think I’m making any ‘statements’ yet.”
In his paintings, Roger Hartung also ex­
amines “academic things —like form, shape, 
color.”
“Most of my work deals with the history 
of architecture to create a dramatic subject 
matter,” says Hartung. In She Said Her 
Buildings Were High Tech; I Kind of 
Agreed, Hartung portrays two cylindrical 
buildings against a vibrant, science fiction 
background.
Hartung employs bright pastels in his 
paintings. “I want people to enjoy looking 
at these paintings,” says Hartung. “They are 
decorative to be dramatic, not to be ‘deep.’ ”
In Vertical Expression, Hartung makes 
references to architectual history in his use 
of Gothic element. Hartung believes the 
painting to be “dramatic due to exaggerrated 
circumstance;” it explores Gothic spires in 
vibrant colors.
Nancy Barton, Rob Cook, and Roger 
Hartung will be exhibiting their work at the 
Forbes Gallery until November 11. Gallery 
hours are Wednesday—Friday, 11:00 am to 
6:00 pm, and Saturday and Sunday, Noon 
to 5:00.
CMU Drama opens with Shakespearean comedy
The Carnegie-Mellon University Drama 
[Department will open its Season Seventy 
I with Shakespeare’s “The Comedy of Errors,” 
at 8 pm, Nov. 6-10, 13-17 in Kresge Theatre 
I on campus. Matinees will take place at 2 on 
[Saturdays.
Matthew Vaky, instructor in the Drama 
s Department, will direct. Vaky has set the 
show in the first century A.D. Shakespeare’s 
I comedy takes place in Ephesus, and Vaky, 
^inspired by the many Biblical references in 
|the text, opted for that period.
“I wanted to have anachronisms, and I 
[figured the further back I put it, the more 
I could have,” he says. “I wanted to make it
What’s more serious than the Bible? Let’s be 
really irreverent.”
Vaky, who earned bachelor’s and masters 
degrees from CMU, won two Bud Yorkin 
Directing Awards in the university’s annual 
New Play Festival. He recently directed “A 
Lesson From Aloes,” “Catch-22,” “Landscape 
of the Body” and “The Tooth of Crime” for 
the Pittsbsurgh Laboratory Theatre. He 
worked as an assistant director with Ben 
Shaktman on “Tangles” at the Pittsburgh 
Public Theater and with Charles Ludlam on 
“The Country Wife” at CMU.
A native of Washington, D.C., Vaky grew 
up in the Latin American countries of Col-
Guatemala, wheie his father served as a U.S. 
foreign officer.
THe cast for the show includes John Grib- 
ben and Paul Schoeffler as the twins An- 
tipholous of Syracuse and Antipholous of 
Ephesus. Two women, Janet Mitchko and 
Kay Kirby are cast in the roles of their twin 
servants, Dromio of Syracuse and Dromio of 
Ephesus, roles generally played by a male.
Other cast members are: Stanley Albers, 
Yussef El Guilndi, Aaron Kjenaas, Jim Nar- 
dini, Steve DeLauter, David Gifford, Ann 
Kittredge, Jane Oppenheimer. Deborah Tur-_
cotte, Natalie Carter, Renee Schlegel, Richel 
Etterman and Kathleen Morales.
Charles Shieber is creating the set for the 
show; Susan Branch, the costumes.
The Drama Department will offer a din­
ner theater option to its patrons this season. 
Dinners, at $9.95, will be served in the new 
Faculty Club in Skibo. For dinner reserva­
tions, contact the CMU catering office at 
578-2129.
For ticket information and reservations, 
contact the CMU box office from noon to 
5 pm, Monday to Friday, at 578-2407.
piore serious in order to make it funnier, ombia, Venezuela, Costa Rica andPhotographic essays: 1 ondon to Pittsburgh
Va    U . _ —U.. Lla U I 1 1 1 of VI *-* I f n nrive photographic essays by Pittsburgh 
photographer Pamela Bryan, ranging from 
J-S. Steel’s Clairton works to London’s Kew 
wardens, will be on display at Blatent Im- 
a8e Gallery from November 9 through 
December 6. The exhibit of 46 color prints, 
^presenting Bryan’s work in the past year, 
Tan be seen Thursday through Sunday, bet- 
reen the hours of 12 pm and 5 pm, at 1015 
east Carson Street on the South Side.
In four of Bryan’s five essays, she turns her 
Pamera onto various Pittsburgh industrial 
pnyironments: Pattern Molds from the now- 
jfefunct Homestead Mesta Works; Pen- 
P°uses from the Warehouse Terminal 
^dings on the South Side; a “Dance of the 
^cks among coal stockpiles in Clairton 
Fid McKeesport; and views of the sprawl- 
n8> cold steel mills along the Monogehela 
^Ver at Clairton.
Bryan brings a painterly eye and a warm 
l°manticism to these images. She says, 
I ^ough feeling a strong need to document 
ndustrial treasures, my overwhelming want 
to Paint with shapes made by machines,
with those very special industrial colors that 
have been softened by time.” Bryan’s use of 
color is at once realistic and startling; in 
many images, the subject is color itself, 
found in unusual contexts and intensities.
Bryan’s approach to the industrial 
monuments of our age embodies a respect 
for the men who built and worked in them. 
She uses her camera to render the passing 
of these mills and their era rich with per­
sonality, often raising the mills’ silent tribute 
to human accomplishment to the level of 
myth and poetry.
The fifth essay, ‘Trees from Kew Gardens 
and Augusta, Georgia,” singles out from 
among various limbs and roots oddly sug­
gestive, sensual, and surprising shapes. 
Again Bryan uses the camera to invest her 
subject with a specific emotional content 
uniquely hers.
Pamela bryan was bom in New York City 
and has lived in Pittsburgh for the past six 
years. She had a one-woman show of 
photographs at Mendelson Gallery last fall 
continued on page 9
Campus bestsellers
1. In Search of Excellence, by T. J. Peters & R. H Waterman Jr. 
(Warner, $8.95.) A look at the secrets of successful business.
2. In Search of the Far Side, by Gary Larson. (Andrews. McMeel 
& Parker, $4.95 ) More cartoons from the "Far Side”.
3. Living, Loving and Learning, by Leo F. Buscaglia. (Fawcett, 
$5.95.) Thoughts from the acclaimed California professor.
4. Lisa Birnbach’s College Book, by Lisa Birnbach. (Ballantine, 
$7.95.) Everything you always wanted to know about Colleges
5. The One Minute Manager, by K. Blanchard & S Johnson. 
(Berkley, $6.95.) How to increase your productivity
6. The Road Less Traveled, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone. 
$8.95.) Psychological and spiritual inspiration by a psychiatrist.
7. ‘Toons for Our Time, by Berke Breathed (Little, Brown, $6.95.) 
Cartoons from the comic strip “Bloom County”.
8. Blue Highways, by William Least Heat Moon.
(Fawcett, $3.95.) A look at life at the back roads of America.
9. The Color Purple, by Alice Walker. (Washington Square 
Press. $5.95.) Winner of the 1983 American Book Award
10. Megatrends, by John Naisbitt (Warner. $3.95 ) 
Forecasting America s future.
Oomp.t«<1 ivy Tnt Chron.cn Mi* <r t>* co»«mf -non* < V

---------------------------------------------------

SPRING SEMESTER 1985 REGISTRA TION
Registration for ihe Spring Semester 1985has been scheduled for November 14 and 15', 1984. Freshmen 
in CIT and MCS will receive separate registration instructions from Dean Kail and will not register at this 
time. All other students, graduate and undergraduate, are expected to register at this time if they wish 
to be on the rolls for the Spring Semester. If you will not be returning for reasons other than graduation, 
please file a Withdrawal Form (clearly marked for Spring 1985) with your department. If you are studying 
off campus, or for some other reason cannot register on November 14 or 15, ask your advisor to process 
a registration for you or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
The Class Schedule Booklet will be available after November 5, inside the main entrance to Baker Hall 
and the Information Desk at Skibo. The Class Schedule contains a list ot the courses which will be offered 
next semester, the schedule and classrooms for each, the instructor's name, and complete instructions 
for registration. Please obtain one and carefully read and follow the instructions contained in it.
A single registration form called the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) will be used 
for registration. It will provide an additional opportunity for you to review and update the demographic 
information on file for you and provide a form on which to list and have approved your program for the 
coming semester.
1 .Pick-up your R3D Form from your department and correct the demographic information. (Forms for H8-SS 
freshmen and sophomores will be available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center).
2.Meet with your advisor and have a schedule with alternatives approved.
3.Between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on November 14 or 15 go to each department teaching the courses in 
which you wish to register to obtain registration approval.
4.After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D Form to your department. You keep the last (yellow) copy. 
If you need further information or assistance, please call the Office of the Registrar, 578-2004'
Follow the yellow brick road
He took a transatlantic trip to transplant a monster 
and wound up in ... •
SET YOUR SITES
A Photo Quiz inspired by 
Columbia Pictures1 new comedy
MmffMth
M I J M m mm com Columbia pictures industries inc
' X r '''
Pictured are three famous movies. 
Correctly name them, and the cities they are set in and j 
you can win an instamatic camera or movie passses j 
to see No Small Affair. Submit your entries by 3:30 
Wed., Nov. 7 to the Skibo Information Desk to be put 
in the Tartan mailbox:
If you recognize the stars, you’Ll know where they're 'coming from

---------------------------------------------------

r
November 6, 1984—The Tartan—Page 9
(2 ED to present Breathing Easy nationally
Joan Van Ark of “Knot’s Landing,” Mark 
[armon of “St. Elsewhere,” Casey Kasem of 
American Top 40,” Paul Reiser from “Diner,” 
id LeVar Burton of “WonderWorks” and 
leading Rainbow” join Pittsburgh 
i-eakdancers the Kingsley Robonic Tic- 
cceis and a host of other stars in Breathing 
sy, a special designed to encourage teens 
join the non-smoking generation, 
fxhe hour-long program, produced by 
)ED/Pittsburgh at its Oakland studios, 
anieres Tuesday, November 14 at 8 pm on 
)ED/13, and on public broadcasting sta­
ins nationwide. 
breathing Easys format is that of an im- 
Inary television network, complete with a 
le-show — “You Bet Your Lungs” hosted 
H LeVar Burton and starring local Pitt- 
Hirgh teens as contestants; a sitcom — “No 
About It,” starring Robert Mcnaughton 
T.;” James Murtaugh, the “A-l Sauce 
who has appeared in many commer- 
and films; Broadway’s Rosemary 
¦sjamara; Mara Hobel of “Mommie 
Direst,” and Frederick Koehler “Mr. Mom”
¦ “Kate and Allie.” Joan Van Ark hosts a
celebrity talk show, “Clearing the Air” with 
Mark Harmon, the Kingsley Robonic Tic- 
Toccers and Dr. Alan Blum, founder of Doc­
tors Ought to Care*(DOC), who discusses the 
hidden messages of cigarette advertising. 
There’s also ‘The Breathing Easy News” with 
anchorman Eric Burns, formerly of NBC 
News; correspondent Mary Rawson, pro­
ducer of Breathing Easy and other WQED 
national programs; and Dr. Peggy Russell, 
of Western Psychliatric Institute and Clinic. 
Casey Kasem is “the voice” of the Breathing 
Easy Network.
Breathing Easy is made possible by the 
American Cancer Society and the American 
Heart Association, with additional funding 
form the American Lung Association. Print 
materials were also made possible by the 
three non-profit health organizations. The 
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, 
a federal agency, provided additional funds 
for teacher’s guides and family guides. 
Teacher’s Guides can be obtained from local 
chapters of the American Cancer Society, 
and Family Guides can be obtained by 
writing Breathing Easy, PO Box 1291, Pitt­
he Department of Art at Camegie- 
lon University will present An Evening 
Alan E. Cober at 7:30 pm, Wednesday, 
ember 7 in Doherty Hall 1212.
Bober, a native of New York City, has 
Hived over 200 awards for his work as an 
Itf t and illustrator.
|is is author of ‘The Forgotten Society,” 
ok depicting life in prisons and institu- 
for the retarded and aged. He was 
ded five gold and four silver medals by
Kappa Sigma 
&
Kappa Alpha Theta
present a
Hkesl[3° I
put
Admission $1.00 
Prizes! All welcome!
sburgh, PA 15230.
The Strange Case of “Death in the West,” 
a controversial special chronicling the bat­
tle by American cigarette companies to keep 
an anti-smoking documentary off American 
television, will be broadcast at 10 pm on 
WQED/13. The hour-long program looks at
the “Marlboro Man” image as contrasted 
with four American cowboys who paid a 
heavy price for smoking.
WQED/13 and WQED/Pittsburgh are 
divisions of Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public 
Broadcasting, Inc.
Photographs presented
continued from page 7
and received honorable mention in this 
year’s Three Rivers Arts Festival, juried by 
Lee Witkin. She has also shown in the 
Museum of the Southern Alleghenies in 
Johnstown, Pa.; in “Pittsburgh’s New
Skyscrapers” at the Frick Fine Arts Gallery; 
in the “Women Photographers in Pittsburgh” 
juried show this spring, and in the Pitt­
sburgh Center for the Arts’ current exhibit, 
“The End of an Era: The Other Side of 
Renaissance II” (through November 11).
rt to present, illustrator; 
ill critique CMU students
the Society of Illustrators. Cober has also il­
lustrated 20 children’s books. His work has 
appeared in Sports Illustrated, Life, Look, 
The New York Times and Newsweek.
During his visit to CMU, Cober will give 
a drawing demonstration and critique the 
work of student illustrators.
His talk, which is sponsored by the Il­
lustration Program, is open to the public 
free of charge.
ANCE MARATHON!
sponsoring the Western PA School for the Blind
November 9, 1984 
9:00pm—9:00am 
at Kappa Sigma
88.3 fm 
WRCT's "FEEDBACK
DR.RICHARD M. CYERT
WED. NOV. 7
5:30-6:30fundad by Activities Fee
A MUSICAL OFFERING
UNACCOMPANIED VIOLIN 
RECITAL 
by LIONEL YOUNG 
TONITE
Tuesday, November 6 
8:00 pm
Alumni Concert Hall 
Fine Arts Bldg.
Carnegie-Mellon
University
COME!
PC OWNERS!
— Need to hook up with the CMU systems or other 
databases?
— Want a better price than even the CMU Computer Store 
can offer for the same modem?
ARC Associates now offers the new Anchor Signalman XII 
(1200 bps, asynchronous, auto-dial) for $250.00. We'll even 
deliver it to your door the same day. The choice is yours: buy 
a CMU modem or get the same Anchor from ARC and have 
a night on the town with your savings. For details, call 681-8609.
This offer is limited, so act quickly and save!
ARC Associates 
160 N. Craig St., Suite 217B 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(Bellefield Bldg., corner of Craig & Bayard in Oakland)
412/681-8609

---------------------------------------------------

The Junior Class Club
*
challenges the Senior Class to a 
game of Capture the Flag
from dusk til dark, 5—8 pm, Fri. Nov. 9 
(Raindate: Sat. Nov. 10, same time) 
Meet on the Cut in front of Skibo at 4:45pm
Be There!
Funded by Activities Fee Rumor has it that the Seniors are wimps and won't ^
C-MU/UNITED WAY 1984
Time to Care More,Share More...
Professional CFACenters
8.9 4.6
week ending Nov. 2
10.5 8.0
total $ 26,505.00
Administration
Department
9.8 9.1
total % 9.4
96 of participation

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.SOCCERATHLETE OF THE WEEKIM REPORTPlayoffs possibleFreshman star shinesTouch FB champsPage 12Page 12Page 17
Team play leads to victories
Tartan sweep earns PWC volleyball title
hands. Coleman pounded three spikes past 
the outstretched hands of Bethany’s back 
line to put the Tartans ahead. After a long 
volley at game point, Coleman’s graceful 
spike sent W&J home for the evening as 
Camegie-Mellon moved on to face Bethany 
in the championship round.
The Tartans had met Bethany in the first 
game of the preliminary round, splitting the 
series with one win for each team. Both 
teams knew they were in for a grueling 
match.
In the first game, Carnegie Mellon again 
fell behind early. Down 6-2, CMU reared 
back on the strength of the outstanding ef­
forts of Gina Coelho and Karen Kmetz. The 
Tartans took advantage of several Bethany 
mistakes and executed their own passing to 
perfection to register five straight points. 
Coleman was again the player to put the vic­
tory away with a powerful hit for a 15-6 win.
Bethany, faced with the possibility of 
elimination, forged out to a 6-1 advantage 
in game two on the serving strength of Kim 
Howe. Zalevsky and Smith teamed up to key 
yet another Tartan comeback, giving CMU 
the lead at 9-6. Bethany came back to make 
things interesting at 10-9, but Kmetz’s block­
ing wrapped up the win at 15-10.
The team presented Coach Fisk with the 
championship trophy after the game, and 
rejoiced with the jubilant fans who provid­
ed helpful encouragement throughout the 
day. In addition, the three freshmen who 
sparked the team received all-conference 
honors. Coleman, a hitter, was named to the 
all-conference first team, while Zalevsky 
(middle blocker) and Smith (setter) were 
named to the second team.
After a 17-7 season, Fisk was nothing but 
optimistic about the future of her young 
team. “We have a lot of young players who 
perform very well. I’m looking forward to 
next season with great anticipation.”
Football team comes dose, 
but Case denies CMU win
photo by Erik Horn
blocking help from Mike Minjock (25), fullback Victor Boland (12) trie» to break 
I trough the Case Reserve defensive line, past defender Scott Ockington (5).
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
CMU ended its football season Saturday 
with a 25-17 loss to undefeated Case Western 
Reserve University.
The Tartans finished the year 6-3 overall 
and 5-1 in the Presidents’ Athletic Con­
ference. W&J won the conference champion­
ship with a 37-7 victory over Grove City 
College.
CMU played one of its best games of the 
season, leading 17-10 after three quarters 
against the eleventh-ranked Spartans. But 
Case Reserve’s running game overpowered 
the Tartans in the end, gaining 262 yards 
on the ground.
Jim Donnelly, alternating at tailback with 
Keith Sullivan, led the Spartans with 93 
yards on 21 carries. Sullivan gained 73 yards 
on 15 carries, while fullback Bruce Price had 
67 yards on 13 carries.
Case Reserve, winner of the North Coast 
Athletic Conference, finished 9-0 on the 
season, but may not make the NCAA Divi­
sion III playoffs. In order to make the 
playoffs, a team must finish ranked first or 
second in its region. Three other teams— 
number-one-ranked Augustana, Dayton,
and Hope—were undefeated and ranked 
ahead of Case Reserve going into this week’s 
action.
A 6-3 season is no disgrace by any means, 
but CMU was looking forward to a repeat 
of last year’s powerful performance.
It was a solid but not dominating year for 
the Tartan squad. The defense played well 
Saturday, but couldn’t come up with the big 
play when needed.
The turning point of the game came with 
9:15 left in the fourth quarter. Quarterback 
Fred DiSanto had just sneaked into the end 
zone to make the score 17-16 CMU. Coach 
Jim Chapman decided to go for the lead 
with a two-point conversion.
DiSanto rolled to his right, and as the 
defense rolled with him he turned and threw 
across the field back to Bruce Price in the 
end zone. The momentum turned, and Case 
Reserve scored again late in the game on a 
similar play resulting in a six yard 
touchdown for Jim Donnelly.
Victor Boland ran for 84 yards on 21 car­
ries, including a 10-yard TD run, but was 
held to just 20 yards in the second half.
Thrtan Tattlers — Rob Fleischman had 
continuad on pa«« 17
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
It was the perfect Cinderella story.
Amid the encouraging cheers of scream­
ing Theta Xi fraternity members and the 
watchful eyes of a large crowd at the CMU 
gym, coach Jane Fisk’s spirited women’s 
volleyball team took first place in the Penn- 
wood West Conference Tournament on 
Saturday in storybook fashion.
The tournament opened with round- 
robin competition among the schools that 
attended to determine which three would 
advance to the playoffs. Because LaRoche 
College did not attend, the tournament was 
reduced to five teams — Bethany, CMU, 
Chatham, Washington and Jefferson, and 
St. Francis. Bethany won the round-robin, 
followed closely by W&J and CMU.
The Tartans came from behind in all of 
their playoff games, sweeping the ever- 
dangerous W&J and league powerhouse 
Bethany. CMU surprised its opponents by 
virtually dominating the playoff round after 
playing inconsistently in the placement 
round.
For Coach Fisk, who has been leading the 
team for “I don’t know how long,” winning 
the conference title was the perfect way to 
conclude a successful season. “I felt in my 
heart that we could win [the tournament], 
but I also thought we could blow it,” com­
mented an emotional Fisk. The girls played 
terrific today. Our team play was what 
enabled us to come from behind.”
The team was a dark horse candidate for 
the championship trophy, seeded last among 
the three playoff contenders. According to 
Fisk, team depth gave Camegie-Mellon an 
advantage over the other team5 ?.s the com­
petition became more intense.
“I used nine players today in the greatest 
confidence that each could perform well,” 
said Fisk. “We have outstanding depth and
pnoto Dy ueorge isao-Wu
Hitter Chris Coleman (18), Tartan Athlete of the Week (see related article on page 
12), and middle blocker Karen Kmetz combine to stop a potentially dangerous hit.
desire, which gave us an advantage over the 
opposing teams. Our new players have made 
us very strong.”
Those new players keyed CMU’s opening 
round victory over W&J. In the first game, 
freshmen sensations Chris Coleman, Monica 
Zalevsky and Marianne Smith played excep­
tionally at the net to spark a 15-10 comeback 
victory. Down 10-6, The Tartans were 
brought back to life by Captain Janet Stahira
and Sue Jordan. Stahira made several 
gallant saves of perfectly-placed Bethany 
spikes. Jordan served two aces at the end of 
the match to lock up the victory.
CMU completed its sweep of W&J by over­
coming a 5-0 deficit in the second game. 
The Tartans tied the game at six, only to see 
Washington and Jefferson slip ahead by 5 at 
12-7. It was then that Christine Coleman 
decided to literally take matters into her own

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—November 6, 1984
HERŒS OF THECOMPUTERREVOLUTION
STEVEN LEVY
must-win to stay
What Tom Wolfe did for the original astronauts, Steve Levy has done for HACKERS’.”
who was still in 
stumbled on the per, the Horowitz
Athlete of the week
Coleman mixes power and grace as clutch hitter
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Christine Coleman has a special com­
petitive spirit within her, disguised by a style 
and grace which makes her deceiving to op­
posing players.
When the Camegie-Mellon women’s 
volleyball team needs an important point, 
they call on Christie Coleman and her 
powerful hit to get it. As the ball is set, she 
glides stealthily from her position, leaping 
27 inches into the air and punching it with 
all her might. With a graceful heading, she 
watches as the ball eludes the hands of her 
opponents. Mission accomplished.
Making important plays in clutch situa­
tions is not the only thing Chris does well.
“She’s a team player,” said Coach Jane Fisk. 
“She hits well, passes well, serves well. She 
has terrific hand action on her shot, and I 
could go on. She’s going to be better than 
she knows she can be in the years to come.” 
Only a freshman, Chris is already an in­
tegral part of the Tartan’s game plan as a 
big play maker. As a hitter, she performed 
her role to perfection as CMU captured first 
place in the PWC Volleyball Tourney on 
Saturday. The Tartans, third seeded in the 
playoffs, stormed past first seeded Bethany 
and second seeded Washington and Jeffer­
son in four straight games. When a little 
magic was needed to pull the team from 
behind, Chris came through with a 
perfectly-placed hit or a brilliant save in the
Want to see your name in print? 
Call x2111 today.
By YOUR NAME
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan began looking for new staffers 
early last week. “All people interested in writing, 
production, business, photography, or any other
fa cet nf npwsnanpr work shrmlH rail v91 1 1 ” caiH
back court. At one point, she accounted for 
three points in a row as the Tartans quickly 
cast Bethany aside.
Although her individual performance was 
exceptional, Chris would rather talk about 
the success of her team. “We knew we need­
ed the win to get into the playoffs, so we went 
all out for it,” she said. “Our team has a lot 
of potential, and things look really good for 
the play-offs.”
Asked what she thinks of when she’s out 
on the court, she replied, “If we’re losing, 
I want to get even. I get mad at the other 
team when they’re chanting and cheering. 
I enjoy the challenge of playing the better 
teams because I love the competition.”
An attractive, friendly freshman major­
ing in architecture, Chris is no newcomer to 
the game of volleyball. Her high school team
from Milan, Michigan was ranked third in 
the state. She earned all-conference and all­
district honors during her high school career.
A superior student, she was ranked eleventh 
in her class.
Her mother and father stay with relatives 
in the Pittsburgh area so they can watch her * 
play. “She really likes to win,” remarked Bar­
bara Coleman after the game on Saturday. 
“She works hard at not getting beaten men­
tally. She doesn’t enjoy losing, that’s for sure!” 
Her father added, “Chris is consistent and 
reliable, and she’s a very good athlete. She 
also likes pizza.”
The Tartan offers its congratulations to 
Christine Coleman, the first Athlete of the 
Week. This new column will appear every 
week during the fall, winter, and spring var­
sity sports seasons.Soccer team sp/its final two, still has chance for final NCAA playoff spot
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
With a loss this week against Pitt and a 
victory over Robert Morris, CMU’s soccer 
team kept its carefully nurtured NCAA 
playoff hopes.
With an 11-2-1 record and a tie for the 
PAC championship, the team must now 
await the outcome of the Scranton- 
Haverford game, in which a win by Scran­
ton would knock Haverford out of the race 
and leave the Tartans to compete with 
Glassboro and Elizabethtown for the final 
playoff spot.
The 4-2 overtime loss to Pitt last Tuesday 
was a particular heartbreaker for the Tar­
tans. According to Coach Gaudioso the team 
“thought the game was a
in playoff contention.” When regulation play 
ended with the score tied at 2-2, the Tar­
tans, believing their chance at post-season 
play about to slip away, convinced the of­
ficials to ignore the gathering darkness and 
play two five-minue halves. Unfortunately 
the overtime period enable Pitt to snatch the 
win.
As it turned out, CMU was mistaken in 
the belief that they had to win the game due 
to some erroneous scores, and in the words 
of Gaudioso, “we should have taken the tie 
even though we should have won the game
10 times over.”
Ironically, the game probably should 
never have gone into overtime. With approx­
imately 26 minutes left in the game and Pitt 
continued on page 17
Meet Peter 
short pants when he TX-0 at MIT; Bill Gosper, 
of computer keyboards and guru Hacker Ethic; Richard Greenblatt, who 
went into night phase so often that he 
zorched his academic career; Steve 
(Slug) Russell, who hacked the first video game and never made a dime from 
it; Lee Felsenstein, who'brought the 
"junkyard approach” to computers; Efrem Lipkin, who loved machines but hated their uses; John Harris, star pro­
grammer who yearned for female com­panionship. Learn how the Ethic shared 
by these adventurers and visionaries 
brought about the computer revolution 
that has chanaed our world.“A tour de force of storytelling. It’ll 
hook you from the first page.”- Whole Earth Software Review
’Joe McGmmss, author of Fatal VisionDOUBLEDAY
ATTENTION ARTISANS!
THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
IS SPONSORING
A HOLIDAY ARTS AND CRAFTS SALE 
DECEMBER 3. AND ¿4-, 1984- *
ALL C-MU ARTISANS WELCOME 
(STAFF, FACULTY, AND STUDENTS) *
RESERVE A TABLE SPACE 
WITH THE INFORMATION DESK-SKIBO 
9i00-5i00 MONDAY -FRIDAY 
BY TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20
*

---------------------------------------------------

Winner.
In 1900, Johann Hurlinger of Austria walked on his 
hands from Vienna to Paris in 
55 daily 10-hour stints, 
covering a distance 
of 871 miles.
With AT&T you don’t have to stand on your head to 
get more mileage for your money. \bu’ll save 40% 
evenings, 60% nights and weekends. You'li get 
immediate credit for wrong numbers...plus quality
• that wins hands down.
For information on AT&T Long Distance, call 
1800222-0300.
AT&T
The more you hear the better we sound5
From the Guinness Book of World Records, c 1983 
by Sterling Publishing Company. Inc New >brk. NY

---------------------------------------------------

CAMPAIGN ‘84
¦
------------------w
1. 23456
US CONGRESS DIST. 18
Maxwell (R)
Government should en­
courage the creation of 
nongovernment jobs and 
encourage the free enter­
prise system.
I oppose a moratorium on in­
creases in military and se­
curity aid.
Federal and state funds must 
be obtained to solve this 
problem
I support an increase in the 
budget for defense systems.
Less controls; many regula­
tions were too rigid, causing 
many companies to fold.
I favor a voucher system for 
private & parochial schools.
Mulholland (L)
The only role for gov­
ernment in the economy 
it to stay out of it.
Withdraw all US forces from 
foreign countries. This 
would save over f 100 billion 
per year.
Roads and bridges funded 
through “user’s fees.” Other 
repairs paid for voluntarily 
by the private sector.
I support the elimination of 
all military hardware not 
needed to defend the US.
\
Those harmed by pollution 
should seek judicial reme­
dies against polluters, not 
regulatory ones.
I foavor the elimination of , 
government-run schools and 
compulsory school attend­
ance laws.
Walgren (D)
Stimulate private invest­
ment, provide vocation­
al/educational training, 
and rebuild America’s 
infrastructure.
I support legislative initia­
tive.
Federal state and local gov­
ernments must share costs. 
Priority to recession-ravaged 
areas.
Strengthen conventional 
forces. Support negotiated, 
verifiable reductions in nuc­
lear weapons.
Favor strict enforcement of 
existing environmental laws. 
Public health must not be 
compromised.
I support continuing federal 
aid to public and private 
schools.
US CONGRESS DIST. 14
Caligiuri (L)
The government should 
snot interfere in any as­
pect of the economy.
No government welfare for 
the rich, middle class, or 
poor. Private charity only.
Roads and bridges should be 
financed by gasoline taxes 
and tolls.
Reduce military expenditure 
and station American troops 
only in the US.
I favor stronger property 
rights laws for the protection 
of the environment.
Taxpayers should not fi­
nance schools. Choice and fi­
nancing —the responsibility 
of the parents.
Clark (R)
Protect US industry; pre­
serve unemployment 
compensation system; 
aid in retraining unem­
ployed.
Maintain defense but use 
overruns/wasted monies to 
supplement private hunger/ 
poverty efforts.
Combine federal, state, local 
funds with private sector in­
centives; pass Enterprise Zone 
Tax Act.
Maintain strong, modernized 
defense without waste/over­
runs, which steal funds from 
human needs.
Balance need to preserve 
God’s earth with need for 
growth.
Upgrade public schoois stop 
humanism; preserve student 
loans/grants/tuition tax cre­
dits.
Coyne (D)
The government should 
improve the economic 
conditions of the country 
in order to stimulate em­
ployment.
I have cosponsored important 
legislation in this area.
The federal government 
should play a leading role in 
improving the infrastructure.
I support a mutual, verifiable 
nuclear freeze and restraint 
in defense budget growth.
I have supported the Clean 
Air Act, the Clean Water Act 
and the Superfund reauthor - 
ization.
I support Tuition Tax Credit 
legislation though not at this 
time due to the budget defic­
it.
PA ATTORNEY GENERAL
Ertel (D)
Not applicable.Not applicable.Not applicable.Not applicable.I favor aggressive enforce­
ment of environmental laws, 
protect citizens from hazard­
ous waste and contaminated 
water.
Not applicable.
Liebersohn (C)
Create jobs to meet genu­
ine needs like repairing 
bridges, dams, roads,etc.
Support transfer of funds 
from military to communities
Military budget.Reduction. As leader in 
weapons production, we 
must become leader in dis­
armament.
More—controlling acid rain. 
We are earth’s landlords but 
also its tenants.
We do not support tax breaks 
for private tuition.
Zimmerman (R)
As Attorney General, I 
ensure that the economic 
laws protectiong Pennsyl­
vanians are enforced.
My responsibility is to enforce 
laws, but I know the lack of 
basic necessities and proper 
education are major causes of
crime.
To aid in our cities’ rehabili­
tation. I am fighting illegal 
drug trafficking.
The defense of our country is 
the responsibility of the fed­
eral government.
I will continue to prosecute 
aggressively those who dump 
toxic wastes.
I am committed to upholding 
any law aiding private schools
PA AUDITOR GENERAL
Bailey (D)
The federal government 
is obliged to maintain 
high employment levels 
and to work along with 
the private sector.
We must prioritize not only 
defense spending but also key 
domestic programs involving 
both education and family 
nutrition.
The federal government 
must be a key ingredient in 
any effort to rebuild our ur­
ban centers.
The US must comprehen­
sively build up its defensive 
might to protect the Western 
alliance.
Government must be the 
most vigorous participant in 
protecting the environment, 
protecting the environment.
The federal government, 
along with its state and local 
counterparts, must increase 
its support for public educa­
tion.
Shanaman (R)*
Haver (C)
Create jobs to meet genu­
ine needs like repairing 
bridges, dams, roads,etc.
Support transfer of funds 
from military to communities
Military budget.Reduction. As leader in 
weapons production, we 
must become leader in dis­
armament.
More—controlling acid rain. 
We are earth’s landlords but 
also its tenants.
We do not support tax breaks 
for private tuition.
Walter (L)
Government should only 
concern itself with stop­
ping fraud and force.
I support abolishing taxes so 
that the poor and others can 
spend thier earnings as they
wish.
Give funds back to taxpayers; 
they can fund improvement 
of infrastructure they use.
An immediate unilateral re­
duction in offensive weapons 
should be made, and Soviets 
challenged to do likewise.
Polluters violate private prop­
erty rights and should be pro­
secuted for any damage they 
cause.
Eliminate double taxation. 
Parents with children in non­
government schools should 
not pay school taxes.
PA TREASURER
Benedict (D)
We need government 
and industry to work co­
operatively to create full 
employment.
I support government prog- 
grams to ensure adequate 
nutrition to all Americans.
Rebuilding urban centers re­
quires federal funds with 
strong local government par­
ticipation.
I support the federal govern­
ment’s current level of milit­
ary spending.
I believe present environment 
tal protection laws are ade­
quate, but enforcement is 
failing.
Every responsible citizen is re­
quired to financially support 
public education.
Dwyer (R)
Different facets of gov­
ernment should be in­
volved in all these areas.
We must maintain a strong 
defense and feed, house, 
clothe, and educate the poor.
Federal, state, and local gov­
ernment funds should be 
used cooperatively to improve 
our urban infrastructure.
We should strive to be the 
strongest nation in the world 
to guarantee world peace.
I certainly favor a larger gov­
ernment role in acid rain 
control.
Minimum educational stan­
dards should be required for 
all educational institutions.
Mullinger (L)
Government can't create 
jobs without destroying 
others. Solution must be 
lower taxes and dereg- 
tion.
Eliminating all military and 
security aid overseas and 
allowing individuals to sup­
port any good causes they 
wish.
From private financien look­
ing to profit by fulfilling the 
transportation and housing 
needs of the consumers.
A reduction. We now pay for 
Western Europe's, Japan's, 
and Saudi Arabia’s defense, 
and we should not.
The principle is the right to 
control one's own life and 
property; violations should be 
decided in court or arbitra­
tion.
I favor tuition tax credits, 
lower taxes generally, and 
lower interest rates.
Thomas (C)
Create jot» to meet genu­
ine needs like repairing 
bridges, dams, roads, etc
Support transfer of funds 
from military to communities
Military budget.Reduction. As leader in 
weapons production, we 
must become leader in dis­
armament.
More—controlling acid rain. 
We are earth’s landlords but 
also its tenants.
We do not support tax breaks 
for private tuition.
.
PA SENATE DIST. 37 
Fisher (R)*
Delano (D)
Government must not 
create barriers to free- 
market job production.
Military spending is essential 
to preserve our freedom, but 
not mindless weapons systems 
and cost overruns.
Better management of ex­
isting programs and a coat­
conscious use of current tax 
dollars is essential.
The recent doubling of milit­
ary expenditures has been 
more than adequate.
Current environmental laws 
are adequate, but more must 
be done about toxic wastes 
and impure drinking water.
Support through tax credits if S 
the state has met its obliga ¦ 
tion to its public schools. B
Jk
PA SENATE DIST. 43
Heller (L)
Only the free market can 
create job»; government 
should stand aside and 
allow it to happen.
All government spending 
should be reduced; private 
charities can best benefit 
poor people.
The funds should come from 
and be allocated by private 
enterprise.
Reduction in all but forces 
essential for the defense of 
the United States.
Government ownership tends 
to ruin the environment. Gov 
eminent land should be sold.
Elimination of government ¦
run schools; tuition tax ere ¦
di». I
Jones (R)*
Romanelli (D)
I support the legislation, 
but it is in the US Con­
gress, not the state Senate
Several sources: CD block 
grants. State Liquid fuels 
Fund, etc.
Gvt policies should protect 
health and safety of indi 
vidual* without unnecessarily 
affecting job opportunities. -
The state Senate is not in­
volved with questions con­
cerning military hardware.
YesI have supported and will 
continue to support services 
such as transportation for 
nonpublic school students.

---------------------------------------------------

CAMPAIGN ‘84
8101112
I will introduce legislation to 
cut wasteful pracdces in the 
insurance and hospital indus­
tries.
I would work for a Constitu­
tional amendment to prevent 
abortion.
Yes. Forrign countries should 
not be permitted to dictate 
US polides
No. I do not believe in special 
legislation for certain groups.
Provide private sector with in 
centrves to develop such ener­
gy sources.
To live in my district and 
keep in personal touch with 
the electorate. Attorney—27 
yrs.; Cty. admin, exp.-26 yrs.
I favor total deregulation of 
the health care industry.
;
I favor any legislation that 
would outlaw all abortions or 
tax funding thereof.
Yes,but not to the extent that 
we would try to fordbly adv­
ance our views.
No. All groups should be tre­
ated equally. Legislation 
favoring special groups is the 
equivalent of apartheid.
Total deregulation of the 
energy industry, allowing the 
market to dedde the best 
energy sources.
I believe the people should be 
offered an alternative that’s 
rare in the political process— 
freedom. Private attorney.
I support health planning & 
putting more cost-conscious 
incentives into the total 
health care system.
Government should not en­
courage abortion and should 
take a restrictive funding 
approach.
Support for human rights & 
democratic principles should 
shape our foreign policy.
Yes.Support tax incentives and 
federal research and develop­
ment efforts.
To provide independent and 
accessible representation for 
our region in the Congress 
Private law practice.
Remove restrictions on the 
number of people who can 
enter medical school.
I believe in the right of the 
individual woman to make 
this decision.
World economic interdepend 
ence, not political alliances. 
No US troops outside the US.
the Constitution, as it is now, 
suffidently protects the rivil 
rights of everyone.
Let the marketplace deter­
mine the true cost of energy 
to help conservation.
To implement my pol. phi­
losophy of individual rights 
free-mkt, economy, 
nonintervention. Congres­
sional internship 1977.
Ensure reasonable costs; pri­
vate/public assistance for 
needy; create Catastrophic 111 
ness Insurance.
Constitutional amendment; 
promotion of alternatives to 
maintain safety/dignity of 
parent(s).
American interests balanced 
with preservation of peace/ 
dignity of God’s people world 
wide.
Yes, excepting homosexuals, 
who are such by choice and 
not by birth.
Strongly advocate energy con 
servation/new source de­
velopment; provide public 
sector incentives.
Abiding love of God and His 
Word; MORAL LEAD 
ERSHIP IS OVERDUE IN 
CONGRESS.
I support legislation aimed at 
moderating the cost of health
care.
I support a constitutional 
amendment to ban abortion.
Peace and international sta­
bility should be major factors 
in shaping our foreign policy.
Yes. I supported the Civil 
Rights Act of 1984.
Lessen our dependence on 
foreign energy resources and 
explore alternate sources of 
energy.
Served on City Council, in 
State House, and currendy in 
US House, Urban spokesman 
Member key committees.
As Attorney General, I will 
crack down on fraudulent
practitioners, who help esc­
alate Medicaid costs.
I will, as Attorney General 
defend the laws that I will be 
pledged to uphold.
Not applicable.Yes.Not applicable.Attak organized crime and 
illidt drug trade. City DA-9 
yrs; conviction rate over 95% 
US Congress-6 years.
Our health care system must 
emphasize prevention of ill­
ness.
We believe abortion is 
a woman’s choice.
No. World harmony creates 
more security than a selfish 
notion of peace.
Yes, especially at work and at 
the polls.
Clean up fossil fuels and rely 
more on wind, water, and so­
lar energy.
Activist attorney—devote my 
practice to helping consumer 
who have been ripped off and 
have mortgage problems.
I have prosecuted those who 
tried to profit illegally from 
the administration of health 
care programs.
I am defending the constitu­
tionality of Pennsylvania's 
Abortion Control Act.
Pennsylvania’s Attorney 
General does not shape the 
US foreign policy.
I defend Pennsylvania’s Con­
stitution and Equal Rights 
Amendment, which absol- 
prohibit discrimination.
I applaud our Common­
wealth's encouragement of re 
newable energy sources, such 
as hydroelectric power.
I am an experienced litigator 
and a 19 year career prosecu­
tor. I know how to do the job 
and I will stay to do it.
Maximum efforts must be 
made to ensure the financial 
integrity of the Medicare/ 
medkaid trust fund.
I would support legislation 
promoting a Constitutional 
Amendment prohibiting 
Abortion On Demandl
Yes. It always has been and 
must continue to be our guid­
ing principle.
Legally, the federal govern­
ment must actively work to­
ward guarantedng the consti 
tutional rights of all.
A comprehensive educational 
campaign to enlighten the 
public. ¦
Ways and Means Committee 
economic background and 
policy experience.
Our health care system must 
emphasize prevention of ill­
ness.
We believe abortion is 
a woman’s choice.
No. World harmony creates 
more security than a selfish 
notion of peace.
Yes, espedally at work and at 
the polls.
Clean up fossil fuels and rely 
more on wind, water, and so­
lar energy.
Consumer advocate with 
CEPA, nation’s oldest con­
sumer advocacy group.
Eliminate government laws 
that deny people the right to 
seek the medical treatment of 
their choice.
No taxpayers should be 
forced to support morally re­
pugnant services.
Nations don't have "self- 
interest." Peaceful commerce 
with no entangling alliances 
should be the US foreign 
policy.
Laws should make no distinc­
tions, favoring or discrimina­
ting against anyone in the 
administration of justice.
If prices are allowed to rise to 
market levels, energy re­
sources will automatically be 
preserved.
Pa. taxpayers deserve a watch 
dog auditor general who is 
not tied to Democrats or Re­
publicans. Auditor; MS, ac­
counting, finance.
I support a Medicare/Medi­
caid program for the poor.
I personally oppose abortion 
but believe abortion is a 
woman's right.
Our nation's self-interest 
should be a key consideration 
in foreign policy decisions.
I am totally committed to 
anddiscrimination legislation
We need more stringent leg­
islation and more lucrative 
tax credits.
I want to stop the m us use of 
state funds before it occurs.
We should continue such 
programs as Medicare, Medi­
caid, and prescription drug
assistance.
1 would support whatever the 
Supreme Court will allow, 
consistent with complete 
health and medical consider­
ations.
Protecting and promoting 
the interests of the US and its 
dozens consistent with the 
needs and desires of all na­
tions.
The civil rights of all Amer­
icans should be protected.
We should act swifdy to con­
serve and develop our energy 
sources.
Pa. Hcuse-6 yrs; Pa. Senate- 
10 yrs. Pa. Treasurer — 3V4 
yrs. Partidpate in protect., 
improve our govt, system.
Allow more people to prac­
tice medddne—dump licen­
sing; institute catastrophic 
health insurance; end gvt role
in medidne.
I would end all government 
funding of abortion, but I 
would not move to ban it.
Our nation's self-interest in 
peace and free trade should 
always be the primary factor.
I favor rights to control one’s 
own life and property but not 
to control someone else’s.
Get government out of ener­
gy pricing. Scardry. leading 
to rising prices, will provide 
incentives to develop renew­
ables.
To ge Libertarian party and 
our ideas better known by 
voting public. I believe most 
gvt. spending is immoral. 
Prof. economist.
Our health care system must 
^nphasize prevention of ill­
ness.
We believe abortion is 
a woman's choice.
No. World harmony creates 
more security than a selfish 
notion of peace.
Yes, espedally at work and at 
the polls.
Clean up fossil fuels and rely 
more on wind, water, and so­
lar energy.
Active in many community 
issues. Independent of pat­
ronage politics.
Government must act in a 
cost-effective way to guaran­
ty the availability of medical
care.
Government must do much 
more to provide alternatives 
to abortion.
Survival of the US as a free 
nation should be paramount 
in our foreign policy, but we 
have obligations to others.
Each human being should be 
judged on his/her own worth 
and contribution.
Tax credits for conservation 
improvements and greater 
government assistance for so­
lar, water, and clean fossil 
fuel development.
Grew up in this area; ser rd 
as Congressman Walgren’s 
top assistant — 7 yrs. Want to 
restore people-oriented gov­
ernment.
Regulate medicine com 
Petition will drive down costs.
Elimination of all govern­
ment funding of abortions.
We should not interfere in 
the affairs of other countries 
under any circumstances.
Guarantee rights to life, liber 
ty. and property for all 
people.
Elimination of all subsidies 
and price controls.
Deep commitment to princi 
pies of liberty upon which 
this country was founded.
Continued support for Medi 
CarF an<i Medicaid programs.
I have supported the constitu 
tional amendment to prohib­
it abortions.
The state Senate is not in­
volved with questions con­
cerning foreign policy.
Gvt. should create jobs and 
encourage nongovernment 
jobs. We recently established 
a $190 million economic de­
velopment program.
I cosponsored legislation to 
establish the Energy Develop­
ment Authority.
I have been a Representatve 
and a Senator. Would like to 
continue fighting for the 
needs of Western Pennsvl 
vania.
TARTAN
VOTER'S
GUIDE
Candidates reponded to the follow­
ing questions:
1. What role should government 
play in the economy?
2. What should govenment do to 
decrease poverty in the United 
States?
3. Where should money come 
from to promote urban 
development?
4. What should be done with the 
federal military budget?
5. What role should government 
play in the environment?
6. What should be done to im­
prove our system of education?
7. Waht should be done to 
reduce health care costs?
8. Should aborton be legal?
9. Should the United States in­
tervene to promote human rights in 
other countries?
10. Should the federal govern­
ment take steps to improve the 
situation of minorities?
11. What should be done to 
reduce the cost of energy?
12. What is your motivation and 
experience in running for office?
KEY
* — did not respond 
C —Consumer 
D—Democrat 
L— Libertarian 
R —Republican

---------------------------------------------------

THE BEST 
CREDIT CARDS 
ON CAMPUS!Citibank cards give you more benefits and services than other credit cards. And you can apply for your Citibank MasterCard or Visa card right here on campus.
¦ ¦: VAW*:..'¦¦I
CAME fDHIIT IiPiWiBfc %MVII •
itlfiitll
1
mm.
crriBAN<o
VISA ,
4128 ^ H5h i8_
CmBANKQ
K«asterOardl
r »
p
khmwflt&
ííSiíí-.,
-Agrea
' ritfiflSt I I ¦¦ ili B fîtil n u !¦ ii li ByK nifftr -# Hill QFPirorCOIilSFWRPpimiJIJ^^ '. f ite nÉtottpi
mmmmm iimiimi*»pm nuf ¦Mmif f JSMIWr KHjWIIfElCSInM%Aiwlrw1lsX /s's / •'/ ,>£ ^ „S'%/' // ¦¦ ' ''' ífs//yï' / 'ty/Pt' "O* /ffós/, ¦¦ V'/'/ys /'¦' iSB^anni. ^DATE: Mon-Fri, Nov 5-9 TIME: 9:00 am-5:00 pm PLACE: Skibo -next to Info Desk
H
•• • •
IF YOU CAN'T WAIT. CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-232-1100
• ••
CITIBANKA CITICORP COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1984—The Tartan—Page 17
IM champs crowned; deadlines near
y SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Contributing Editor
The IM Football season came to a close 
this past week as the champions were decid­
ed in the Majors and Minors divisions.
In the Majors, Pi Kappa Alpha defeated 
ta Theta Pi in the championship game by 
score of 47-20. Pika led only by one point 
t halftime, but made some key adjustments 
at the half which enabled them to win the 
jame rather handily. Quarterback Rick 
Irombetta, who completed all but two of 
his passes, threw for five touchdowns on the 
pight. Three of the TD passes were to Dave 
“Bizmo” Bart. Joe Honse also had an out­
standing game on defense.
In the Minors division Token Whites 
defeated Theta Xi by a 19-13 margin to cap 
an undefeated season by winning the cham­
pionship. Tony Bernard returned an in­
terception for a touchdown in the first 
quarter, and quarterback Mike Fitterman 
threw touchdown passes to Dennis Crummey 
and Bernard in the second half to round out 
the scoring for the Token Whites. Bernard 
and Crummey were named MVP’s for Token 
Whites.
CMU loses 
last game to 
No. 11 Case
, continued from page 11
= five points in the game, finishing his senior 
[year with 99 career ¡joints. Fleischman 
returned after being benched for last week’s 
igame. About the benching, Fleischman 
[said, “I agreed with the benching, but I did 
i not like having to win my job back in a kick- 
off this week” . . . Roger Roble had four cat- 
¡ches to finish with 30, and should be nam- 
i ed Academic All-American . . . Boland led 
^ the Tartans with 372 yards rushing. T.D. 
jSmith, who had been the teams lead rusher 
; going into the last game, never touched the 
I ball versus Case Reserve... CMU finished 
[ second in team offense and third in defense 
[in the PAC. They led the conference in 
) rushing .. . Marc Muster played almost 
every down at center, while Ross Jicomelli 
¡played the entire game at right tackle.
As reported ealier, Crash Crew defeated 
Crunch Bunch to win the Intermediate divi­
sion.
Congratulations are also in order for all 
three commisioners, who did a fine job: in 
the Major league, Matt Feldman; In­
termediate, Chris Pfeiffer; and Minor, Vince 
Carozza.
•
Competition continues in the second 
round of fall IM sports. These sports include
SOCCER:
continued from page 12
leading 2-1 (Doug Anderson had the Tartan 
score), CMU freshman Alex Mayr tied the 
game. The Tartans apparently took the lead 
with another goal less than two minutes later 
but it was nullified. According to the official 
who mad the decision, a CMU player touch­
ed the ball with his hands. The controver­
sial goal would have given the Tartans the 
lead, and possibly a 3-2 victory.
After Pitt, the team went on to face
water polo, chess, soccer, team volleyball, 
bowling, racquetball, and team table 
tennis.
Current standings were not provided for 
water polo, chess, bowling, or team tennis. 
In addition, soccer competition just started 
last Friday, with a slate of 40 teams — the 
game schedule is posted on the IM board. 
Standings for other sports (team volleyball 
and racquetball) are not yet comprehensive.
Deadlines are approaching for three
sports. Entries for backgammon and darts 
are still due November 8. However, the 
deadline for three-person volleyball has 
been postponed until November 15, with 
play beginning on Nov. 26.
For information on IM sports or entry 
procedures, contact Intramural Director 
Earle J. Birdy at x2214 (the IM Hotline), or 
stop in at the IM Office, Room 101 Gym.
The IM Report was compiled by Tartan 
Sports Editor Don Eggert.Team hopes for NCAA playoff bid; chances slim, but possibility exists
another, somewhat smaller, Divison One 
competitor — Robert Morris College. 
Halfway through the first half, Neal Frink 
provided all the scoring the Tartans needed 
for a 1-0 win by lacing a penalty shot into 
the net. The game was goalie Sam Mon­
tague’s ninth shutout of the year, and helps 
to repair his goals-against average after the 
damage inflicted on it by Pitt.
Coach Nick Gaudioso was not overly op­
timistic following the final game. “A 1-0 win
against a weak team doesn’t help our 
chances very much. We should have won 3-0 
or 4-0.” He also noted that his team’s chances 
are lessened by the fact that the team played 
an easier schedule than some others, because 
previously tough oppenents had poor 
seasons.
The soccer team has concluded its regular 
season; in the event the Tartans receive a 
post-season bid, they will play an away game 
late this week.
Compare - CompareCompare
COMPARE
Uuiveium
lenti WITH VOI"R TRAVEL AGENCY
Com
YOl'R 
AGE NC
Do they offri vou SI ">0,000.00 of flight insurance .it fio .iiii.ition.il rhar^e?
Do they offer (ret- document dehverv service?
Do they offer round-the dork. S6”> days .1 war, fict telephone counseloi scivkc tiom all Mi slates-
Do ihey offer world-wide lelex servite?
Do thev offer direc t 01 multi-arc ess sen ire 10 sell the last available se.it with all hosi i.imeis'
Do ill« v (»Her contrari hotel rates that are less than corporate rates?
Do they oifei airline strike protection- 
Do they ofler travellers newsletter?
Do they have highly experienced inte national domestic counseiors'
All this and no cost to you — Why not stop by or call
Uf IX 
Wf D( 
Wh IX 
UT D< 
U f IX 
\\ f IX 
\Vf IX 
Wh IX 
UK IX
3955 Fcrbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
University Travel Service,rInc.
Phone 
or 621-3492
MANAGE YOUR CAREERWITH A ROOj|TERM .B.AC
M t the University of Rochester’s Graduate School 
of Management you can manage your career with a highly 
respected M B A. With our wide variety of financial aid and loan 
programs, you can manage your finances, too. So, take charge, 
and manage your way to a top quality management education.
SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE
Our representative will be at your placement office
Nov. 19, 10:00 am-2:00 pm
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL TOLL FREE:
From anywhere in the U S 4 nnn CO-1 nnnc outside N Y State call l‘OUU*Dil*UlWD
From within N Y. State call 1“800“462*0073 
CaM toll free during these hours
Monday - Friday 8:30 a m - 5:00 p m
Tuesday............................. 5:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Saturday 10:00 a m. - 2:00 p m
THE UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Rochester. NY 14627
Any undergraduate major can quality you as an M.R.A. candidata.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Walter issued overly harsh punishment
Last week Braden Walter, dean of Student 
Affairs, decided ZBT will be indefinitely 
suspended. Names of other national fraternities 
have already been investigated as a possible 
replacement for ZBT. ZBT is currently appeal­
ing the decision to an appeals board of Presi­
dent Richard Cyert, Vice President Patrick 
Crecine, and Walter. In light of the following 
information, the administration should realize 
their original action was too harsh and should 
administer a lesser punishment to ZBT.
• ZBT has a positive organization. Five Zebes 
are currently student senators; one is on the 
CMU Board of Trustees; another is a chairman 
on Student Activities Board.
ZBT helped the administration prove that 
students do not have to drink to have a good 
time. In a rush this fall at which no alcohol 
was served, ZBT yielded the largest pledge class 
of any fraternity with 37 pledges.
For three consecutive years, 1981-83, ZBT 
came in first or second place in Spring Car­
nival booth competition and Greek Sing judg­
ing, both charity events. They were not per­
mitted to participate in either last year as they 
were suspended.
Members of ZBT initiated CMU’s first rugby 
club.
CMU ZBT received an award from ZBT na­
tional in 1982-83 for the most improved 
chapter in the country.
• Nature of the incident.
According to Mike Banyas, ZBT fraternity 
president, members of ZBT had gone 
over to Margaret Morrison Apartments to find 
out why brothers had been harrassed._______
“Then they ambushed us from three 
different directions with lethal weapons.”
A source independent of either ZBT or the 
Korean Student’s Association (KSA), Susan 
Mahler, witnessed the incident. She says she saw 
the beginning of the hostilities when an Asian 
student pushed another student. A member of 
KSA declined comment.
• History of action taken against ZBT.
In April 1983, Walter placed ZBT on pro­
bation for a number of unrelated incidents 
without consulting the University Disciplinary 
Committee (UDC). ZBT then asked that UDC 
be involved. Upon hearing recommendations 
from UDC, Walter reversed his decision, issu­
ing only a warning.
Following an incident in September 1983 in­
volving a student who had drunk a life- 
threatening quantity of alcohol at ZBT, UDC 
recommended “that the Fraternity be placed 
on probation for the remainder of the Fall, 
1983 semester.”
Walter ignored this recommendation, choos­
ing instead to “withdraw recognition of Zeta 
Beta Tau as a fraternal organization for the re­
mainder of the 1983-84 academic year.” 
UDC recommendations have not been 
released for the brawl incident. But before the 
UDC had met to investigate the case, Cyert 
said, “We’re going to kick one fraternity, I hope, 
off the campus for the kind of behavior that 
they’ve gotten into.”
Asked which fraternity, Cyert said, “ZBT.” 
He indicated he had spoken with Walter and 
“certainly encouraged him to move in that 
direction (kicking ZBT off campus).”
• The past record of members of KSA.
Last year one member of KSA, according to 
CMU student Dave Lafyatis, “threatened to kill 
me.” After the threat, the KSA member 
reportedly went up to his room and waited for 
Lafyatis with a broken bottle. Lafyatis did not 
follow.
In another incident, KSA members became 
angry because the door to the dormitory 
building in which they lived last year was lock­
ed. According to ZBT brother Scott Woodlief, 
who lived in the dormitory as well, he went to 
the window to see what was happening. A KSA 
member, Woodlief said, yelled “Come down 
and open this door now.”
Woodlief said he and his roommates “wanted 
no part of it.” Several minutes later the door 
to Woodliefs room was flung open by the KSA 
members who attacked, said Woodlief.
Yet another time, several Koreans involved 
in the brawl, attacked CMU student Gabe 
Eszterhas. Eszterhas said, “They (the Koreans) 
were walking by our dorms, Boss and McGill 
one night. Someone shouted something out the 
window at them. Our light was on so they 
assumed it was us. They came up to our room, 
came in and harrassed us.” A fight ensued.
In view of all this information, we recom­
mend action taken against ZBT be 
reconsidered.
Student Senate, also recognizing a faulty 
judgment from Walter, has formed a commit­
tee to investigate the process by which conclu­
sions were reached by the administration. 
Student Senate minutes on page 4.
atTrue electives" claimed nonexistentCore curriculum limits student electives
By Michael Ketzenberg
After looking over the H&SS core cur­
riculum for the zillionth time, I have decid­
ed that I am a lucky individual to have plac­
ed out and received credit for a few courses.
: It would seem, if I did not have 
these credits and still wanted to 
go into Information Systems, I 
would not be able to take one 
course of my choice.
As the core insinuates, an H&SS student 
is to take five courses each semester. This ob­
viously means that upon completing the
sophomore year you should have taken 20 
courses. 10 courses are specifically required. 
From the remaining 10, a student must 
fulfill distributional requirements in 
Language, Culture, and the Arts, as well as 
Science and Technology. These amount to 
five electives in total.
However, I do not consider them true elec­
tives because the individual student is re­
quired to take courses in the specified fields. 
I consider a true elective to be a course taken 
at the sole discretion of the student without 
any general requirements other than those
presented in the course itself.
So, this leaves five remaining “electives” of 
which a two course sequence in statistics and 
calculus is most always required for pro­
fessional majors. If a student is to leave as 
many options open to him/her, as the core 
is designed to do, it would be necessary to 
take these courses (statistics and calculus), 
just to make sure you’re safe if you decide 
to change your mind, or if you haven’t yet 
make up your mind on a major.
The number of required courses, as well 
as the sequence in which they are to be taken
creates many problems for the aspiring stu­
dent. It is very difficult, in fact I have yet 
to find a way to schedule “electives” in such 
a way that all the courses that are required 
are taken in the proper sequence. That is, 
trying not to take Calculus I and II in the 
same semester, or similar courses.
So, after a student has taken all the re­
quired courses or pseudo-required courses, 
continued on page 23
Voting influences students future
m
By Bill McCormick
Did you vote today? How will you feel late 
tonight or early tomorrow morning when 
you discover the identity of our next presi­
dent? I believe these two questions are 
related and that your response 
will fall into one of four 
categories.
1) Happy, satisfied (and ner­
vous?). The candidate you voted for won the 
election. Congratulations, 1 (and you) hope 
your vote was right.
2) Unhappy, but self-confident. The can­
didate you voted for lost the election 
However, you voted and tried to secure other 
votes for your candidate. You fought the 
good fight. I hope you try again the next 
time.
3) Guilty. You didn’t work hard enough (or 
even didn’t vote) for the candidate you 
wanted to win. If only you, and the 
thousands of others like you, had given just 
a bit more effort... but you didn’t, and your 
candidate lost. This is a feeling worth 
remembering. Think of this feeling three
years from now, when the Presidential races 
are starting again. Maybe you 11 find some 
motivation that you’ve never had before. 
One person can make a difference. Maybe 
next time, that person will be you.
4) Bored. Who cares about all of this elec­
tion stuff anyway? Well, if you’ve read this 
far, maybe you care more than you let on. 
Think about it. You’ve just let part of your 
destiny for the next four years be determin­
ed by someone else. You didn’t even have a 
say in the matter. Who will you blame if 
government policy goes astray? Such blame 
must ultimately come back to you - you who 
couldn’t spare twenty minutes to decide your 
)wn destiny.
This phenomenon can go beyond the 
Presidential elections. How do you like con­
ditions at CMU? Are you happy with your 
major? Are your professors helping you 
learn? Do you mind increased housing 
deposits? Are the libraries open when you 
want them to be? Which of the four 
categories do you fall under when decisions 
about university policy are announced? 
Think about it. Your opinion matters.
P. S. Student Senate elections are a week 
away. There is still time for you to become 
a Student Senator. Pick up your petition at 
the Skibo Info Desk today.
Bill McCormick is president of Student 
Government and writes a column for The 
Tartan.Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar­
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors whcyare usually members of the Univer­
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer’s address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves
4 jti/ft V&H to qqndense or reject any letter. nv _
Editor-in-Chief.....................Ric Medrow
Managing Editor...............Mike Pilewski
Business Manager....Nei! Greenblum
News Editor..............Christopher Lewis
Entertainment Editor... Lesley Brunker
Sports Editor.......................Don Eggert
Photography Editor.........Mike Pilewski
Production Mgr...........Michele Reisinger
Ad Manager........................Steve Volan
Typesetting Manager------Jill Clelland
Art Director..................Michael Sussmac
Assoc. Business Mgr..........Bonnie Top
Assoc. Features Editor. Neal Johnston
Asst. News Editor................Karen Gray
Asst. Features Editor.. .Arthur GeMs 
Asst. Production Mgr... Katrin Wesflef
Editorial Asst..............I.'. Mohan Emb*
Contributing Editors..........Pauline Wej
Scott £
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Joe CoW 
Joe Hasper, Tina Hatchl. ¦
Copyright ©1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial B 
reserves the right to withhold from publication anV_ 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo ' 
(412) 578-2112. 24-hour phone: (412) 578-2113- M 
ing address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh
15213. , . .rnr 'rwiti- frwrnc*' • > K thtis

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1984—The Tartan—Page 19
“This is one of the worst days I have spent on campus. This 
is a very painful decision for me."
Mondale tax policy funny; 
Reagan indexing helps poor
By David Moskowitz
I’ve tried not to. But I am finally giving 
in to temptation and writing a crack on 
Mondale column. I’d prefer to write a pro- 
Reagan column, but I don’t have the time 
to sort through all the good 
news.
Some say Mondale is boring 
and has no sense of humor. 
That’s not true; some of his policies are very
funny.
When was the last time you heard a can­
didate promise to raise taxes? They usually 
wait until after the election to hit us with 
the unpleasant news. Mondale has recently 
made history. He hits promised to raise taxes 
by $85 billion a year. This now gives anyone 
who likes money a reason not to vote for 
him. Even more ironic is that he criticizes 
President Reagan, claiming that the Presi­
dent will also raise taxes. There is a con­
tradiction hejre.
So not to hurt anyone’s feelings. Mondale 
says most of the tax increase will be on the 
rich. He obviously feels the rich have no feel-
Reagan victory to show 
nationwide selfishness
By Stuart Shapiro
Today, if the polls are correct, we will have 
massive confirmation that the “me genera­
tion” richly deserves its label. Selfishness will 
have been endorsed as a basis for American 
public policy.
It’s a troubling thought. 
Ronald Reagan is the embodi­
ment of the “I’ve got mine, Jack” 
attitude that appears so much in vogue these 
days. But he hides the essence of his message 
behind facades of dedication to opportuni­
ty and cheap patriotism. The real message 
15 far less noble. Worse yet, all too many peo­
ple find it appealing.
Justice, fairness, equality. Nice sounding 
w°rds. But in Ronald Reagans America we 
Carit afford justice. We must ignore fairness. 
Quality is too much of a burden. If things 
are better for you, we are told, no need to 
w°rry about anyone else.
And then there are the stories. I’m con- 
^nced that standard equipment for an
LETTERS-
UDS needs help for poverty
ings. Mondale claims he will deal [with those 
earning under $70,000] very carefully since 
they previously had been burdened the most.
But it is Reagan who has helped these tax­
payers the most. A year after the 1981 tax 
cuts, those in the highest tax bracket were 
paying 4.3% more in taxes while the bot­
tom 50% of taxpayers were paying 10.1% 
less. In addition, President Reagan has in­
itiated a plan to index taxes. This indexing 
will prevent persons from being pushed up 
into a higher tax bracket due to inflation. 
This “bracket creeping” hurts the poor most. 
The rich can’t be pushed into a higher 
bracket since they already pay the maximum 
percentage.
Mondale claims Reagan will attempt to 
reduce the budget by cutting Social Securi­
ty. The problem is you can’t cut the budget 
by cutting Social Security, since its funds 
come from its own pool, not from the 
general budget. Changes in Social Security 
may be necessary to prevent it from going 
continued on page 25
Editor:
Concerned about people in Pittsburgh not 
having enough to eat? Ever think about peo­
ple in Third World Countries who are at the 
point of starvation? Well, here’s an oppor­
tunity to get involved.
The University Dining Service (they run 
Kiltie, The Tartan Grill, Salads Plus, and 
Morewood Gardens among other things) is 
supporting a fast on Thursday, Nov. 15. To 
be part of the fast, you must register ahead 
of time to skip breakfast, lunch, and/or din­
ner. The money that UDS saves as a result 
of less consumption of food on campus 
(about 40% of the price) will be donated to 
World Vision and East End Cooperative 
Ministries (EECM) located in East Liberty.
EECM runs a shelter for homeless men as
well as providing canned goods for approx­
imately 500 poor families in the East Liber­
ty area. World Vision was created to 
distribute assistance to orphans around the 
globe.
Today, World Vision continues to care for 
children as well as develop programs in- 
health care, hygiene, farming, and voca­
tional training for poor families, provide 
emergency relief for refugees, strengthen 
Christian leaders overseas, and inform 
Americans of what’s happening throughout 
the world.
To participate please sign up in Kiltie Cafe 
or Morewood Gardens on Monday, Nov 12 
or call me at 521-6030.
Beth Armstrong.
The Tartan goes overboard
Editor:
We recognize that The Tartan has and 
should have opinions of its own, but we re­
sent when you publish an issue, such as the 
Oct. 30th issue, in which the editorial, 
together with all the opinion articles, is 
nothing but corybantic demagoguery. You 
are insulting our intelligence by using the 
last issue before the election as some kind 
of political leaflet.
The Tartan is the only campus newspaper 
available. If you don’t promote rational 
debate, you are taking something away from 
all of us. We would certainly expect more 
from a university newspaper.
You.have opinions: fine. But, please try 
to find writers with other opinions and put 
their articles in the same issue. And if you 
decide not to do so, at least try to present 
your opinions in a logical manner. Life is too 
short to expand on this point with details, 
but we believe that many people agreed last 
Tuesday that you and your board did little 
to bring across any political viewpoints. In­
stead, you decided to play with the feelings 
of inflexible Democrats and Republicans. 
What about the rest of us?
Thomas Rask, MEMS ’87 
Juan Leon, ECE ’87
Bias statistically probed
American supermarket includes a person 
who is responsible for going in once a week 
to buy sirloin steak with food stamps and 
then driving off in a Cadillac. Each and every 
neighborhood must contain at least one 
lucky individual who collects welfare in ad­
dition to a nice paycheck. The cities are full 
of people who obviously are too lazy to work. 
After all, why else would they be 
unemployed? Of course, we are plagued by 
incompetent members of minority groups 
who must be less than qualified if hired 
under affirmative action.
Ronald Reagan’s message is quite simple. 
Most Americans who need help are frauds 
or bums. Most who do not reside in his shin­
ing city on a hill are unworthy of it. Tired 
of watching the government use your money 
to help those who obviously don’t deserve it? 
The hell with them. How about the govern­
ment doing something for you? You deserve 
a break today. Especially if you make more
than $80,000 a year.
1 » ' continued on page 25
Editor:
I read with interest the article in the Oc­
tober 30 issue of The Tartan which reported 
the results of a campus political poll. Essen­
tially the results of the poll indicated 
political preferences as follows: 
Pro-Mondale —Ferraro 48%
Pro-Reagan —Bush 38%
Undecided 10%
Other 5%
I then conducted a little poll of my own. 
In that same issue of The Tartan, I counted 
six political cartoons and eight articles con­
cerning the upcoming presidential election 
or other national political issues. The eight 
articles were:
1. Young Democrat Urges Student Activity
2. Students Stock Cyanide Pills, Worry 
Anti-Nuke Activists
3. The Tartan Backs Mondale for President
4. Reagan Domestic Policy Designed to 
Create Failure
5. Grenada Medical Student Dispells 
Illusions
6. Mondale Wins Tartan Sample Election 
Survey
7. Economists Debate Consequences of 
Deficit
8. Voting for Mondale or Reagan a Waste 
I classified the cartoons and articles as Pro-
Liberal (Pro-Democrat. Pro-Mondale, Anti-
Republican. etc), Pro-Conservative (Pro- 
Republican, Pro-Keagan, Anti-Democrat, 
etc.), Neutral, and Other. The breakdown 
was as follows:
Pro-Liberal 
Pro-Conservative 
Neutral 
Other
78.6%
0%
14.3%
7.1%
(I included articles numbered 6 and 7 in the 
Neutral category and article number 8 in the 
Other category. The remaining articles and 
all cartoons I placed in the Pro-Liberal 
category.)
There appears toDea marked incongruity 
between the political inclinations of The 
Tartan board and those of the CMU student 
body. However, due to the small sample size 
of my poll, I would not presume to label The 
Tartan as a blathering liberal propaganda 
sheet. I am confident that the editors will, 
in future issues, print articles in support of 
sound, common sense conservative ideals.
Bob McNeely
Editors Note: A rticles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 
were printed in the Editorial section. As 
such, they make no claim to be unbiased 
Articles 6 and 7 were unbiased as you 
pointed out. The remaining article en­
couraged student political ini'oh'ement—not 
imolvement on behalf of Democrats.
ZBT decision deplorable
Editor:
I find the actions taken by Carnegie- 
Mellon University against the Zeta Beta Tau 
fraternity deplorable at best.
Rather than approaching the matter with 
fairness, CMU, with their narrow-minded 
self-interests, opted for choosing the easy way 
out by merely getting rid of the object of 
contention. But this is a typical reaction 
from a university that regularly seeks to 
remove any elements that might prove 
detrimental to their highly guarded and 
sacred reputation. An untainted public im­
age being their first priority. CMU is deter­
mined to promptly stifle any bad publicity, 
with the brothers of ZBT paring the price 
this time.
This miscarriage of justice has backfired 
on the university, however, achieving results 
opposite to those envisioned. Not only has 
CMU thoroughly mishandled the situation, 
giving new meaning to the word ineptitude, 
but they have also succeeded in losing their 
credibility in the eves of the public
Bruce I. Bor.i

---------------------------------------------------

i JAMAALADEEN TACUMA I
RENAISSANCE MAN
OVo
Recoin * Tire MlfEflsiMcs
J.Z
AZ
OVa
RECflw » tare ARENCOIDuO
faAAz
OVa
ftECM» * we etENotIDn
HEAR AND NOW
CRAMAVISION RECORDS AND TAPES
OAKLAND
Forbes Ave.
DOWNTOWN Pittsburgh 
at Sixth & Wood,
NORTH
MeKniaht Rd.
SOUTH
5000 Library Rd.
EAST
Monroeville Mall
V V WWW TTVTTVVTV» ? TTTTTTTTTT
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
Number of Seats Available:
CFA—3 H&SS—3
CIT—5 MCS—3
GSIA—1 SUPA—1
If you are interested in being a Student Senator, you may pick 
up a petition at the Skibo Information Desk. Petitions are due
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1984
Rec*b Ph ia
C. JAMAALADEEN TACUMA “Show- F. BOB MOSES “Visit with the Great
stopper” Spirit”
D. JAMES NEWTON “Lueila” G. JOHN BLAKE “Maiden Dance”
E. AFRICAN IMAGE “African Image” H. KAZUMI WANTANABE “M0B0 I”
SALE PRICE GOOD THRU 11/22/84
A. Gramavision records are hand pressed on pure KC-600 vinyl.
B. Gramavision records are recorded on Chromium Dioxide Cr02 
BASF tape.
ALSO DISCOVER THESE GREAT NEW GRAMAVISION 
RELEASES ON SALE NOW!
in the Rules Committee mailbox at the Info Desk.
For more information, contact: Senator Seth Kaplan x4392 
Senator Eric Rocher x4795

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1984—The Tartan—Page 21Tartan Complaint Department
Column provided for student complaints
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
This column is the first I am writing 
about a subject I know everyone has taken 
part in at one time in their 
lives—complaining.
Everyone has complaints, little nagging 
¦problem^ you want to tell people, but just 
aren’t big enough for your prototypical “Let- 
ter to the Editor.”
This is your new outlet. If you have a com­
plaint, tell me about it. I don’t care if it’s 
a little note or a four page letter. I have my 
own complaints that will be aired out here, 
because some obviously mentally incompe­
tent people elected me to be an editor.
Don’t send in complaints about the 
newspaper, because this is my column, and 
I won’t print them.
I will call this column the “Tartan com­
plaint Dept.” This comes after suggestions 
of “Where’s the Beef,” and “Andy Rooney 
comes to The Tartan,” not to mention a few 
people who just wanted me to write “I hate 
this place” under my name every week.
The column will run every week, and if 
it doesn’t, complain. Send your complaints
¡to:
or
Chris Lewis
Tartan Complaint Dept. 
Box 17
Schenley Park 
Pittsburgh, Pa., 15213
Campus Mail 
Chris Lewis 
The Tartan
Skibo Information Desk 
Or if you want to call your complaint in, 
ial 578-2111 or 2112. If there’s no one here, 
omplain, but I might not listen; or I might
omplain.
I remind you, this is the complaint 
‘epartment, not the “whiner’s word.” I don’t 
ant to hear that your girlfriend broke up 
ith you; go to Ann Landers, Dear Abby or 
rhaps Dr. Ruth. It’s happened to me too, 
nd I probably don’t care if your girlfriend 
oes something that annoys you repeatedly. 
If you don’t write to me, I don’t care. I’ll 
lust keep using the space for my own com- 
ilaints and annoyances. And I’ll just keep 
omplaining that you have no complaints, 
nd if you complain that I’m a chronic com­
biner, then I’ll thank you and keep com­
bining until I graduate.
Here is the official policy of the Tartan 
omplaint Dept, (never to be printed again, 
save this if you want): I promise to read 
wrything once, and I promise to be open 
mded. I will print only what I feel is wor- 
y I will take anything I want out of a let- 
r> so if you don’t want something printed, 
t write it. I will write my column on Fri- 
ay> so if your letter isn’t here by Thursday’s 
ail I won’t get to it until next week. 
nyone is fair game, so use names if you 
ant. If they’re friends of mine, I won’t print 
eirname, but I will print a generic com- 
amt. No libelous remarks, because we 
ntwant the courts complaining.—That’s
I ^ell, to get into the spirit of things, here 
mY first complaints. Some date back to 
! beginning of the year, and may have
PREGNANT?
*** YOU eMi'r mman to bo/ 
• frw pregnancy teat and 
'"’fcfcntial hafe caM
^thrtght «621-1983
been corrected, but I don’t care. Complain.
Why is there no shuttle service during 
Freshman Orientation week? Freshmen get 
warned about certain areas of town, and 
then are forced to walk through them. Nice 
thing to do to some innocent, frightened 
fresh who is angry about being off-campus 
anyway.
Why did some people have no phones for 
a month? It seems to me this could have been 
taken care of in one day, or at least in a 
week.The Greek View
I can’t stand people meeting to chat in the 
library. There are group study areas, if you 
have to work with someone, use these places. 
Don’t annoy those of us who try to work 
alone in quiet surroundings. Last week, the 
guys were speaking in French. Now that I 
took French for five years, and I have a very 
large French Heritage: I love the language. 
But have you ever tried to read Decision Pro­
cesses in English while listening to math pro­
blems in French?
I have more, such as the tons of campaign
commercials that are on T.V. now. I wasn’t 
sure if I was watching Hill Street Blues, or 
a debate series! Between Reagan’s grizzly 
bear commercial and Mondale stopping at 
the heavens, I’m going to end up voting for 
Lyndon Larouche (just kidding).
Remember, send in those complaints, I’m 
waiting for them. Have an annoying week.
Christopher D. Lewis is news editor of The 
Tartan and writes the Tartan Complaint 
Dept.
Fraternities co-sponsor dance
By Marc Bolan
This coming Friday, November 9, Kappa 
Alpha Theta and Kappa Sigma are co­
sponsoring a danceathon at Kappa Sigma. 
The event will take place from 9:00 pm to 
9:00 am. A $1.00 charge will be 
asked of everyone who wishes to 
attend. Money will go to two dif­
ferent charities — The House
for Unwed Mothers and Logopedics.
The brothers of Kappa Sigma and the 
sisters of Kappa Alpha Theta are going 
around campus and collecting sponsors.
Not only the participants will benefit from 
this event, but people attending have the op­
portunity as well. Refreshments will be serv­
ed and, in addition, throughout the night 
various prizes will be awarded. Also, a local
T.V. station will be there with a camera crew.
Everyone is invited to attend and par­
ticipate — Greeks and non-Greeks. We urge 
you to come out and join the fun for a wor­
thy cause.
The Greek View is a weekly column in The 
Tartan and is written in coordination with 
InterFratemity Council.
sThe Star Printer
MORE THAN CHARACTERS & UNES
Printers from Star Micronics 
always give Outstanding Performances
Delta 10
NOW 
ONLY .Suggested List The Gemini 10X
NOW 
ONLY
The Gemini 10X 
Featuring:
• Dot Matrix printing speed .of 
120c.p s. • Tractor feed 
included *9 x 9 character 
matrix • Standard parallel 
interface
The Delta 10
Featuring:
Bidirectional dot matrix
• 8K buffer • Parallel and serial 
interface • downloadable 
characters «Tractorfeed 
included
The Power Type 
Featuring:
• Daisvwheel. Ictter-quality
1H c p s. printing • Parallel and 
serial interface • Proportional 
spacing • Reverse paper teedprinting speed of c.p.s.
DiMrihiito-lhy IY.ro. Hu lps Oce JOOO \ V)th Street. Philadelphia PA PM M (215 UOJ
Computer Plaza 1 niversity Computers
Parkwav CCenter Mall. Suite 102S * lorl^cs
Pittsburgh Pittsburgh
921-3211 683-8285
All printers from Star Micronics 
Inc have a one year parts war 
ranty (excludingprint head).
A large selection of interfaces, 
buffers and accessories are 
available so you can use Star 
printers with virtually every 
business or personal computer 
on the market.
These Star Printers are now on 
s;ile at:

---------------------------------------------------

ThePresident’s Distinguished Lecture Series
presents
Paul K. Wright
Associate Professor of Mecnhanical Engineering 
Carnegie-Mellon University
ART AND AUTOMATION
“CAN WE QUOTE YOU ON THAT?”
RESULTS
“Sure, you’ve got a 
nice paunch there, but 
it’s what’s up here that 
counts . . .’
CMU Vice-President for Business Affairs Fred Rogers and Tartan Assistant 
News Editor Karen Gray at a press conference held recently in the Faculty Club.
The Two Cultures
Tuesday, November 13, 1984 
4:30 pn 
Skibo Ballroom 
CMU
Free and open to the public
Anonymousucc
SECOND PLACE:
Gray: “Oh, when the shark bites, with his teeth, dear ...” 
Rogers: “Oh, jeez, here we go again.”
Joe Bagadonutz 
Morewood Gardens
THIRD PLACE
Gray: ‘And, if I am elected .
Rogers: “Please —spare me.”
Irene Newman 
Warner Hall
Kiltie Cafe Menu
Subject to changeuds
universitydming
service
tox>
V
O
Q.3OW
TUESDAY
Í I / b 
Chicken w/ Rite
• Jhicken Beast Fillet 
Sandwich 
Faddy Murphy Omelet 
"egetarian Stuffed 
Peppers
Veal w/ Mushroom 
gravy 
Knockwurst & Kraut 
Cauliflower Maranka 
Baked Ham
WEDNESDAY
11/7
Chicken Gumbo
Hot Dogs 
Olili o/ Rice 
Cheese Souffle
THURSDAY 
1 1 / 8
Minestrone Soup
FRIDAY 
1 1 /Q
Tomato Soup
Meatball Sandwich Grilled Cheese
Chicken Ala King 
o/ Bisquit 
Ratatouille
Baked Pork Chops Roast Turkey 
Braised Beef & Gravy w/ Dressing
Italian Spinach Tart Stuffed Cabbage 
Eggs Foo Younf,
Sandwich 
Hamburger, Rice & 
Vegetables 
Navy Bean
Stroganoff
Salisbury Steak 
w/ gravy 
Batter Dipped Cod 
Cheese Blintzes
SATURDAY
n/]o
Old Fashioned
Vegetable Soup
Eggs to order 
Scrambled Eggs 
Ham & Swiss Quiche 
Hot Roast Beef 
Sandwich 
Belgium Waffles 
w/ syrup
Tacos
Chicken Pot Pie 
Vegetarian Tacos
SUNDAY
11/11
French Onion Soup
Eggs to order 
Scrambled Eggs 
Beef, Macaroni & 
Tomato 
Bacon, Egg &
Cheese Sandwich 
Pancakes w/syrup
Fried Chicken 
Baked Haddock 
Lentil Barley Soup
MON DAY 
11/12
Chicken Noodle Soup
Steak & Onion 
Sandwich 
Julienne Turkey 
w/ rice 
Apple Fritters
Roast Beef Au Jus 
Rotini/ Tomato Sauc€ 
Swiss brown Rice
Morewood Gardens Menu
Subject to change
Soup of 
the Day
TIT SO AY 
I 1 / Ö
WE HN ES DAY
1 1/7
Chicken Noodle Soup Egg Drop Soup
THURSDAY
I 1 /H
Split Pea Soup
FRIDAY
11/9
New England
MONDAY
11/10
Old Fashioned 
Vegetable
Lunch
Dinner
uds
umwfuty
Dell Bar Deli Bar
Carved London Broil Chicken Chow Mein 
o/ toast points! ¿gs Rolls 
Sebastian Grill Itus Foo Young
Seafood Creole
Carved Turkey BreaatCarved Roast Beef
Grilled Han 
Chicken Pot Pie 
Rat at i 1 le
Dell Bar Deli Bar
Chicken Fillet Sandwich Italian Pepper Steak 
Ham Ala King Salmon Loaf
?Feature Sandwich*
Bavshore on Rve
Carved Turkey Breast Carved Roast Beef 
Au Jus Baked Stuffed Flounder Au Jus
Fried Chicken Braised Beef Cubes Chicken .Xrhassador
Clazed Pork TenderlotnEggplant Rice Casserole Shrimp 4 beafood 
Cheese Fondue Nevhurgh
London Broil on 
Toast Points 
Hot Meat loaf 
Sandwich 
Baked Ti»ia Noodle 
Casserole
Dell
Carved Turkey Breast 
w/cranberry sauce 
Salisbury Steak 
w/Brown Cravv ' 
Seafood Creole 
o/rice 
Western Gieese 
>ou tfle

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1984-The Tartan-Page 23
Idle musings on politics
By Mike Hoff
Idle thoughts I worn expound upon:
— The Soviets were first in space, and 
they’ve never gone any farther. Did you ever 
wonder what they’re doing up there? You
know they’re up to no good. It’s 
not like they’re working on 
something to improve human 
life.
— Eighteen years old is too young to vote. 
Most 18 year olds don’t care about politics 
or know enough about it.. When I was 18, 
all I cared about was football and girls.
Voters that young are too influenced by 
their parents’ views. Politics is too serious for 
high school kids and college freshmen.
— The U.N. is a joke. No one pays any 
attention to its directives. It has no power. 
It reminds me a lot of a Soviet election: a 
token. No more than a token.
— I think that the Pennsylvania State 
Legislature passed the “right turn on red” 
law so prisoners could make signs telling 
drivers not to do it.
University 
core courses 
limit choice
continued from page 18
a whopping 1 (count ’em) elective is lett. Yet,
I haven’t even considered other requirements 
for specific majors. For example, Informa­
tion Systems with a concentration in Com­
puter Science requires Discrete Math to be 
taken in the sophomore year. I am sure there 
are other special requirements for the 
various majors and disciplines.
So, in a sense, and I am primarily speak­
ing for the student who has not placed out 
of any courses, there are no true electives. 
The core is based on many different 
philosophies, one of which is to leave as 
many options open to the student before 
declaring a major. To take this seriously, a 
student would be left with virtually no true 
electives to test on his own special topics of 
interest.
This in itself, I think has a particular 
1 value to the student, for it gives him motiva­
tion in study, as well as a chance to feel out 
I his own interests. This is intrinsically dif­
ferent from the breadth of knowledge ac­
quired through the core, for its (the core) 
[application is for the general student body 
af the H&SS college and not geared toward 
^dividual needs and desires.
Similarly, I understand the university is 
planning a common core for all colleges. It 
this is furthering the problem by deal­
ing with students as a body of individuals 
and not catering to the individual. I don’t 
nsh to deny the need for a core curriculum 
espoused by the grandiose philosophy of 
le H&SS College, but I feel there is need for 
3rne limitations or allowances.
Michael Ketzenberg is a freshman inten­
ds to major in Information Systems and 
vtes a column for The Tartan.
W ...................................................Ovar 300 Scianca Paperback*, AvaragePrica Just $4.00! Sand for FftEEComplete Dover Science Catelog
Over 300 quality paperbacks, most S3 50 to $6. on numerous topics in mathematics, physics, engi­neering. chemistry, geology, biology, etc High- quahty books at reasonable prices' Write to Dover. °ept A167 . 31 E 2nd St . Mtneola. NY 11501 ---------------------^ ------------------*¦
— I wonder how long the people and 
press of Indianapolis will put up with losers 
like the Colts and their owner, that terminal 
idiot Robert Irsay.
— Eighteen years old is too young to fight 
in a war, too.
— Insurance companies are out of hand, 
too. Especially in Pennsylvania. No fault 
automobile insurance. What a joke.
— The Soviet Union is like a big, mean 
dog. The only way to keep it in line is to 
let it know that it can’t whip you.
— I figured out when the fighting will 
stop in Lebanon: when everyone is dead If 
the U.N. had any power at all, they would 
evacuate everyone who didn’t have a gun. 
Then build a 500 foot high wall around the 
entire country. Give the terrorists all the 
weapons their evil little hearts desire. Let 
them all kill each other, then let the people 
back in to start all over. Does that sound 
gruesome? Is it any worse than letting the 
innocent die for endless years to come?
— Load was too cool to die.
Mike Hoff is junior in professional writing 
and writes a column for The Tartan.
Pregnant? Call AT A
Let’s talk about your options
Caring and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
'«time; (412)731-2420
Nsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494
^«native* to Abortion, be.
A nifiprtéi
, — Cortege Press Service
Is
in your future?
Research and development in
* electronics* computer science* mechanical engineering* physics* mathematics
See our representative for an on campus interview 26 November 1984
aisih crNia SvS,NAS rNa,NCé Sia pRNmc.rihRdcCaRi tDS
U.S. citizenship required • An equal opportunity employer • Federal Civil Service

---------------------------------------------------

CMU # 2CAPEI PIZZA # 2
fcr Friendly Service and the Ce$t Products 
We Use 1CC% Pure Mozzarella Cheese,Dc ethers?
LARGE 10 CUT PIZZA INCLUDING 2 LITERS OF PEPSI
S3.SC
FOP LUNCH & PINNEP
EAT IN CC 
TAKE CUT
PIZZA-Z
Order your favorite 
with all the extras'
EEEE DELIVERY 5ïCC PM-2:CC AM OPEN 1 DAYS X WEEK 3415 EOECES AVE. PGH. PA, 15213 PUCNE 6$1-22€2 CP 681-22C3
KAMIN ON CHAPLIN
Dan Kamin — mime artist, CMU alumnus, and 
author of Charlie Chaplin's One Man Show — will 
lecture on Charlie Chaplin
Monday, November 12 
7:30 pm Wherrett Room
Sponsored by Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1984—The Tartan—Page 25
Me generation" for reelecting Reagan
continued from page 19
Opportunity beckons. At least for some. 
And if you’re fortunate enough to be includ­
ed in that group, why should you care that 
¡someone else is still waiting? Quiet despera­
tion has at least one redeeming quality — 
(it’s quiet.
All the proselytizing I’ve done over the last 
^ weeks boils down to this. I cannot believe 
many of my fellow Americans are so 
nderserving of help. I cannot ignore pover- 
y and discrimination in this country just 
ecause I have not personally experienced 
I cannot accept the contention that 
veryone is better off if all I do is seek my 
Lwn self interest.
I demand a government that regards those 
in precarious circumstances not of their own 
making with compassion rather than dis­
dain. I demand a government that works to 
insure justice rather than profits. Justice in 
the form of clean air and water. Justice in 
the form of adequate medical care for all. 
Justice in the form of jobs for those who must 
support a family but do not know how to 
program a computer. Justice in the form of 
equal rights.
Do I think government is a panacea? 
Hardly. But it can be a powerful mechanism 
for doing good. That it can also be a power­
ful mechanism for doing harm is all too evi­
dent. But that is no excuse for not insisting
that we do the best we can. I don’t think we
are.
:ommie threat continues; oskowitz worried
ntinued from page 19
nkrupt. Reagan has increased payroll 
Ixes on employees to prevent this from hap- 
fcning and has vowed not to decrease Social 
¦curity benefits.
But Mondale is also familiar with the 
¦ructure of this system. It was in his ad- 
inistration that the Social Security tax hike 
,s signed, taxing Social Security benefits 
ir the first time ever. The burden of this 
e fell on the poor the most.
— In the second debate between Reagan and 
ondale, Mondale repeatedly talked of his 
fcmmitment to military might, trying to 
lay on one of the President’s strong points, 
¦don’t think he was very convincing since 
b has opposed almost every major military 
¦oject while in office. Mondale criticizes the 
¦efense Department for paying $700 for a 
¦mmer. Does he realize that it was his ad­
ministration that signed the contract? 
«Mondale claims to find intolerable any 
Hiban or Soviet military bases in Latin 
¦nerica, yet he currently favors only 
Sfgotiations in that area. Does he know that 
¦ere are currently, in Nicaragua, 3000 
¦iban military advisors, 5000 Cuban 
fchnicians, 50 Soviet military advisors, and 
H new military gases?
It is the nature of most Democrats to res- 
Bnd to a threat after it is too late and be 
peed into taking more extreme measures. 
Bow many major wars in this century were 
Jtered into by Democratic Administrations? 
of them. Under whose administration 
not one country gone communist? 
nald Reagan’s.
¦There has been much praise of Mondale’s 
¦pointment of Geraldine Ferraro as his 
pining mate. Many claim it is time a 
¦man received a chance at such a position. 
B they know that this “historic” appoint- 
is really not so historic? The Liber- 
Party nominated a woman for vice- 
in 1976. 
has claimed he will trim the 
better than Reagan will. Instead of 
money away from Defense and rais- 
taxes, which he plans on doing, he can 
lance the budget an easier way: hire
OJomen’s 
Health Service»-
ECNmaiarv IlOID“
212. 3520 Fort» Ave 
^downtown—3rd floor. l07 6chSt
’ *a°*mON SERVICES
é f.C,n rca,Cch ” mvaN riéN
WHS SURVIVAL KIT Fill Out & Ma* Coupon To 
wTs Servie«. 107 6th St Pittsburgh PA 15222
^phon(1 (412) 562 1900
WHS Survival Kk
¿9 |rf student)JMVHS 107 6th St Pittsburgh PA 15222
Geraldine Ferraro’s accountant.
David Moshowitz is a sophomore in civil 
engineering and writes Objective Opinion 
for The Tartan.
Those who vote for Ronald Reagan today 
will most likely do so because they feel bet­
ter (and better off) today than four years 
ago. But what about the all too many who 
are worse off in very fundamental ways 
because of Ronald Reagan’s domestic 
policies? Certainly we’re all worse off as a 
result of his foreign policy. But apparently 
very few of us care to look beyond our ownCorrection:
The photo at the top of page one last week 
did not depict an advertisement for a Hallo­
ween party, as the caption indicated. It ac­
tually was a photo concerning ZBT’s rush.
Three of the cartoons on page 22 last week 
were by Mark Kissner—not Mark Kirshner 
as the byline indicated.
The article on page two last week in­
dicated students under 18 would not be 
allowed into a campus bar where alcohol is 
served. Minors would be admitted, but 
would not be served alcohol.
personal future. Have we really become so 
damned selfish?
As the question mark suggests, I’m unsure 
of the answer myself. I hope that it is not 
the case. But I can’t help feeling rather sap­
py and naive for writing all this. And that 
scares me.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
applied history and writes a column for The 
Tartan.
«
PIEDMONTS 50% OFF COLLEGE RARE*
Face it,your learning years are not your prime earning 
years. But don’t let that stop you from moving off campus.
Through February 28,1985, you can fly anywhere 
Piedmont flies for half fare.To LA and Newark. And to all 
kinds of hot spots and hometowns in between.
What’s the catch? Well,you must be under 26 and have 
a valid student ID. Read the nne print below for restrictions.
Piedmont s 50% Off College Fare More proof that our 
commitment to higher education is not just a lofty ideal.
\(i»i yvlwkUNt'. ><ntikl-trif* thirty tfUN /v/’iiTv/vixv/tif L\tst vtoi iLtxs I\i*wtund \rx uxmLiUcull cLr\ FriiLix or 
Smu/trv i |mi HotuLty fund restriction* iitfh ( \ill your in n d a^ytn or to at 1-H00-2SI-S72G

---------------------------------------------------

\THINK
'<* ÎHÎ VIROM 6 
AFFECT R£
V0TIH6mMIIUVMSIFmiMi
PRESlDEHT?OKt6t//VOfcVOTE
TwTOSTWSITItCOULDRÉSTOF
BtïW)HNA*YLiftwm
g,wOjKjjw
i °/L /W
ACROSSDOWN
CROSS
WORD
PUZZLE
FROM COLLEGE 
PRESS SERVICE
Last Week’s puzzle answer on page 5
1 Stalks 
6 Gush out 
11 Hurls
13 Warming device
14 Negative prefix
15 Flounders
17 Babylonian 
deity
18 Land measure
20 Journeys
21 High mountain
22 Go by water
24 Transgress
25 The sweetsop
26 Streetcar 
28 Slew
30 Wife of Geraint 
32 Plaything
33 Parts of play1 Mixes23 Paths
35 Cook in hot2 Part of neck25 Apportion
water27 Sixty secs.
37 Places3 Teutonic deity 29 Tennis stroke
38 Animal’s footOUl
5 Hit hard31 Railroad
40 Golf mounds6 Stitchesstations
42 Paid notices7-Dance step33 Unforeseen
43 Burrowing34 Seasoning
animals8 Guido's low36 Becomes aware
45 Male sheepnoteof
46 Cyrpinoid fish9 Walked37 Buckets
47 Colonizedunsteadily39 Part of shoe
49 Sun god10 Snares41 Shatter
50 Sufferers from12 Wild plum43 Simple
Hansen’s13 Shocking44 Slave
disease16 Skulk47 Weight of India
52 Instructs19 Leads48 Pigeon pea
54 Catch21 Studio51 Parent: colloq.
55 Meat53 That is: abbr.
12345676910
111213
141516
&1819 Kl*20
U
-
m222324
m2626272829
303132
33343536
373840
42
m-
4445
46474849
50515253
5455
© 1984 United Feature Syndici
Funnies. _______________________ ____________________________»
Joe Freshman By Mark Levine
Tuesday, 
courtesy of The Tartan.
Every Tuesday The Tartan delivers news and entertain­
ment to thousands of readers. Behind the scenes, we’re 
more than Just bylines and credits. Tartan stafffmembers 
Investigate, analyze, and assemble the Ideas and pictures . 
that appear In print each Tuesday.
Join the people behind the pages. We Invite you to 
write, or do a variety off production work. Stop by our offfflce 
In Sklbo SO anytime during the week, or on Sundays, when 
It all comes together; or call us at x2111.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.CLASSIFIEDS
Subjects needed for reading experiment. Must 
be 40 years of age or older. Approximately one 
hour at $8.00. Call Professor Stratman at GSIA, 
578-7583, for appointment.
KING — Baby, baby, baby! Happy 21st Birth­
day and many happy returns! These past three 
months have been amazing, and you are entire­
ly responsible for it all. I’ve never had so much 
fun in my life. Don’t ever forget what’s made it 
all so special: Purple Ram, Prowling, wonderful 
h* talks into the wee hours of the morning, the 
Famous Four, Trivial Pursuit, Fredericktown, 
Essence, Barclays, Larry & Carol’s, all those 
damned memos, horseback riding in the rain, the 
Clipper Trip, shopping downtown, Homecoming, 
and walking into Oakland together. Thanks for 
everything. Je t’aime. IDGWWG, IDGWWD, 
IDCPB, JTMWU. IWDFU1 All my love, 
PRINCESS.
GIRBAUD CLOTHES Jeans and shirts 40% to 
50% off store prices. Call Drew 578-4064. 
Oakland Review, CMU’s literary magazine, is 
I published annually by a student staff. All students 
•|^ interested in working on the 1985 edition: there 
I will be a meeting on'Nov. 12 at 6:00 pm in Skibo 
I room 12.
;i RAINBOW DAY CARE in Oakland, Arts and
I Crafts, Home Cooked Meals, Preschool Lessons, 
| and low rates. Ages 2-5. Call: 682-6761.
REWARD for return of woman’s HS class ring 
lost in gym early October. Call 578-4608.
The Phipps Fall Flower Round-Up, November
11 through December 2, Phipps Conservatory, 
Schenley Park. Over 350 varieties of chrysan­
themums in a wild-west setting. Special guided 
tours available. Phipps is open 9 a.m.-5 p.m. and 
7 PM — 9 PM, seven days a week, including 
Thanksgiving. Admission is $2.00 for adults and 
$.75 for children and senior citizens. Call 
255-2375 for more information.
Stereo Service — all makes, all models, 
Amplifiers, receivers, turntables, tape decks, car 
stereos, TV’s, VCR’s. 30-day warranty. Steve 
362-6927.
HELP!!! I have lost a green class notebook that 
is labeled “MECHANICAL SYSTEMS ”. If found 
call Sue Breslow x2369, 681-3923.
Wanted: models for figure and glamour 
photography. Please send picture. Write Post Of­
fice Box 10161, Pittsburgh 15232.
Excellent resume and cover letter constructed at 
lowest cost in area. 15% discount with CMU-ID. 
Interviewing techniques and potential employer 
list provided free. Open evenings and weekends. 
Penn Avenue, Wilkinsburg. Daramola Corpora­
tion, 241-0222.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Manuscripts, 
papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. We use IBM- 
PC with letter quality printer (HP laserjet). Rough 
drafts on disk are available. 731-8978.
Mailing Labels with names and addresses of 
companies that hire scientists and engineers. 600 
labels for $20.00. Motto labels with your “Mot­
to” on them. Semper Ubi Sub Ubi. 100 labels with 
your motto $5.00. Chicago Computer Products, 
PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 15216.
A&A Secretarial Service — Quality typing, low 
prices, pickup and delivery available. For further 
information call 362-TYPE.
EASIEST CLEANING IS CLEANING YOU 
DO NOT HAVE TO DO. MINUTE MAID 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES FOR 4 V* YEARS. 
682-3860.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the 
US government? Get the facts today! Call 
1-312-742-1142 ext. 3401-A 
The Tartan needs typesetters. We pay all 
workstudy students $3.50 to start. No experience 
necessary. Call 578-2111 or stop by Skibo 50-52 
to apply.
Part time help wanted: Waitress apply in per­
son — Panther Hollow Inn, 4611 Forbes Ave. 
682-9999.
Need transportation? Drive a car anywhere in 
the USA. Must be 21. References required. Call 
828-4813.
EXOTIC DANCERS — Entertainment for par­
ties, male and female dancers. Stripper-grams, 
931-3255.
Help wanted: delivery person. Earn up to $7.00 
per hour as a Domino’s Pizza delivery person. 
Apply in person, at 310 N. Craig St.
WORD PROCESSING: MANUSCRIPTS, 
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS, DISSER 
TATIONS, TERM PAPERS; Exact copy/editing 
available, 24-hour service, 621-8544/681-5416. 
The Tartan is looking for people to join their 
business staff. Job includes billing for display 
ads and classifieds and subscriptions. People 
will be trained in both the Business Manager’s 
and Assistant’s jobs, and the Assistant’s job will 
be open for replacement in January. Contact 
Bonnie, x4405, or come by The Tartan, Skibo 
50, x2111.___________________________________MISCELLANEOUS
Representatives of the Pittsburgh Chapter of 
the Pennsylvania Society of Professional 
Engineers will discuss careers in engineering and 
the advantages of professional registration. Learn 
how to arrange to take the EIT examination. 
Thursday, Nov. 8, Skibo room 12 anytime bet­
ween 2:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. Handouts and ap­
plication forms for the EIT examination will be 
available.
The Armed Air Society, an Air Force Service 
Fraternity, is sponsoring a food drive beginning 
this week. The food is going to needy Pittsburgh 
area families for the Thanksgiving holidays. All 
donations of non-perishable canned foods are ap­
preciated and can be made at posted locations 
in your dorms or in the Air Force ROTC office, 
PH 15.
Fairchild Linear & Hybrid Division passes 
the career test of technical challenge, career support and growth potential, salary and benefits, climate and lifestyle, and on-campus interviewing. Stop in 
for an interview to find out why we can 
offer you the career opportunity you’ve 
been looking for.
Fairchild Linear & Hybrid Division 
313 Fairchild Drive Mountain View, California 94039
FAIRCHILD
A Schlumberger Company
LINEAR «HYBRID DIVISION
If you can’t schedule an interview when 
we’re on campus, feel free to send your résumé to the attention of the Employ­ment Manager/College Relations at the 
address mentioned. '

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28—The Tartan—November 6, 1984SCHOLARSHIPS
Applications for the Delta Delta Delta Scholar­
ship competition, which is open to all full-time 
undergraduate women students, except seniors, 
are available in the Student Affairs Office, 
Warner Hall 206. The winner of the local com­
petition is eligible for the $1000 national 
competition.
The deadline for submitting completed ap­
plications is March 1, 1985. Please Note: This 
scholarship is not restricted to members of Delta 
Delta Delta but is open to all full-time 
undergraduate women who will be attending the 
same school during the term of the award.
Women students who are currently completing 
their junior year and who plan to study abroad
in the summer between their junior and senior 
years are eligible to apply for the Vira I. Heinz 
Travel Study Award. This award provides $2,500 
to a woman student at Carnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity through the Vira I. Heinz Endowment as a 
result of a gift of the late Mrs. Vira I. Heinz, who 
was a trustee emerita.
Junior women interested in being considered 
for this award should pick up an application form 
in Dean Cox’s office, Room 206, Warner Hall. 
The application includes sections on itinerary, 
budget, course of study and reasons for desiring 
to participate in the program.
The deadline for submitting completed ap­
plications is January 7, 1985. Applicants will be 
requested to be present for an interview with the 
Selection Committee on January 25, 1985. The 
award will be announced immediately thereafter.
PANTHER HOLLOW 
INN4611 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
Open 7 days a week
Kitchen open:
M —F 11am —11pm 
Sat 11am —8pm 
Sun 1pm —9pm
Sandwiches—Salads—Hoagies 
Pitcher nights—Tuesday and Wednesday 
$1.00 off all draft beers
Londo^Schoo^^conomic^^ 
and Political Science
A chance to study and live in London
Junior-year programs. Postgraduate Diplomas. 
One-Year Master's Degrees and Research 
Opportunities in the Social Sciences.
The wide range of subjects includes 
Accounting and Finance • Actuarial Science • 
Anthropology • Business Studies • Economics • 
Econometrics • Economic History • European 
Studies • Geography • Government • Industrial 
Relations • International History • International 
Relations • Law • Management Science • Operational 
Research • Personnel Management • Philosophy • 
Population Studies • Politics • Regional and Urban 
Planning Studies • Sea-Use Policy • Social 
Administration • Social Planning in Developing 
Countries • Social Work • Sociology • Social 
Psychology • Statistical and Mathematical Sciences • 
Systems Anaylsis •
Application forms from:Admission« Registrar, L.S.E., Houghton Street*
London WC2A 2AE, England, stating whether 
undergraduate or postgraduate 
and quoting Room 10.
VLSE
VAMP
at the Junior League Shop
4707 Liberty Avenue, Bloomfield 
New and almost-new clothing costume ideas for a
STEAL!!
Come in and find great costume ideas for Halloween, 
Christmas gifts, and great buys in clothing.
HOURS: Mon. thru Sat. 10 am — 5 pm 
Present this ad and receive O C O/ C C
any purchase over $10.00 v-rl
Expires 11/14/84. CMT
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
s YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students Ef CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
that could become available for September, 
October and November occupancy.
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
g— g=—«S3B5 1 ¦ BBC—, ,|y.. BMWCustom Designed Hairslylesthat only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind ...at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
237 Atwood Street Mon.. Tues., Wed. 10-7 No Appointing
Across the street from Thurs.. Frl. 10-9
Oakland Post Office Sat. 9-6 HAIR SAl<
687-35
ptnglo kPh All STYIFS$25.00
WASH. CUT AND 
BLOW DRY$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)EMfcenmsa
PRECISION HAFOJTT0
oat »7S-2921Myr iadsuf ceeicu
Campus ConvenienceSkibo 40A
