SPMf
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
VOLUME 52 — NUMBER 25
OF TECHNOLOGY
WEDNESDAY, MAY 18, 1960
More Organized and Relaxed 
Atmosphere for ’60 Orientation
This fall's orientation program for incoming freshmen 
will follow the basic pattern of previous Freshman Weeks. 
Because fraternity rush has been deferred to mid-semesters, 
and because the Student Activities Center is scheduled to be
complete by September, a more^---------------?------------------------------------------------
organized and relaxed atmosphere 
is anticipated, however.
Freshman Camp will begin the 
^iogram on September 13. On 
Thursday, September 15, there will 
be Deans’ receptions and ad-r 
dress by Dr. Warner. Freshman(
men and women will meet with 
their respective deans on Friday.
The schedule for Saturday includ­
es a Kiltie Band presentation,
Sports Day, and Dorm Orientation.
Church Night will be held Sun­
day evening.
President’s Reception 
'»The President’s reception will be 
held on Monday evening in the 
Student Activities Center, as will 
the Activities Orientation on Tues­
day. This program includes the 
only fraternity function of Fresh­
men Week.
Freshman Orientation is a Stu­
dent Congress activity. George 
Logan is the sole chairman of the 
affair this year. He is assisted by 
P^t Moore, secretary; John Mc- 
‘..Jwan, treasurer; and Jackie 
Thurston, in charge of Freshman 
Camp. The committee will also be 
aided by sub-committees of Stu­
dent Congress, the Cwens. Scimit­
ars, and other interested people.
Freshman Week is planned to 
center around the new Union.
Most incoming freshmau will 
probably eat their first meals there 
and will have the jump on sopho- 
i^jpres, juniors, and seniors in be­
aming familiar with the new 
building.
Freshman Camp
Final plans for next year’s 
Freshman Camp are being made 
as the last weeks of school come
State Scholarships
Holders of Commonwealth 
^nf Pennsylvania scholarships 
must report to A. H. 154 be­
fore the end of the semester. 
The Chairman of the Commit­
tee on Financial Aid must 
have the names and addresses 
in order to file the certificates 
of attendance which are the 
basis for issuing scholarship 
checks.
to a close. Jackie Thurston, chair­
man of the camp, has announced 
that the main emphasis will be on 
getting the new freshman in clos­
er contact with upper classmen 
and the faculty. In order to do 
this, a large number of faculty 
members will be present and will 
be included in panel discussions 
held during the three day period. 
Through the panel discussions it 
is also hoped that the freshman 
will begin to think of college on 
a higher level through a new ap­
proach on the subject discussed.
Dean George from the Gradu­
ate -School of Industrial Adminis­
tration will officially open camp 
with a kejrnote speech to the new 
freshman. This will be followed 
by entertainment and dancing.
The following day will consist 
of recreation and panel discussions 
which are to be followed by 
smaller group discussions includ­
ing faculty members, counselors, 
and freshman.
Camera found on lawn in 
front of gymnasium Friday, 
May 5. See Miss MacYVilliams 
in AH-154.
Cameron Choir 
In New York
Last Thursday, May 12th, was 
the big day for the Cameron 
Choir. That’s when they embark­
ed on their New York trip. Forty- 
three members made the trip, 
which climaxes a busy year for 
the group.
Friday was a full day. In the 
afternoon the choir sang before 
1500 students at Er^gmus Hall 
High School in Brooklyn. Friday 
evening they entertained at the 
Annual Spring Banquet of the 
New York Clan of alums.
Saturday was spent sight-seeing. 
The group returned in the evening 
ou Sunday, May 15th.
James Tozzi (?) 
Elected Senior 
Class President
The Class of 1960 at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology held its 
traditional Senior Banquet at the 
Webster Hall Hotel on Thursday, 
May 12.
The 400 seniors who attended 
elected James Tozzi as Class Pres­
ident and Gloria Cofsky as Class' 
Secretary. The class also discussed 
a financial campaign of Carnegie 
Tech which, in the past two years, 
has resulted in pledges of $40,000 
for the alumni phase of Tech’s de­
velopment program.
Dr. J. C. Warner greeted the 
seniors and Jack G. Johnson, Ex­
ecutive Secretary of the Alumni 
Federation, welcomed the new 
“alumni,” Professor G. Schmerz 
entertained with his folk music 
and songs.
Draft
If you are planning to con­
tinue your education during 
the academic year, 1960-61, 
whether here at CIT or some 
other institution and you are 
under the jurisdiction of Se­
lective Service regulations, 
you should ‘consult and care­
fully read the informative no­
tice which is posted on cam­
pus and dormitory bulletin 
boards. As the registrant of a 
local board, it is your ob­
ligation to attend to this very 
important item of personal 
business at once.
Paul Farrell
CFP President
Dave Morris
CFP Vice-president
Farrell, In Second Term, and Morris 
To Lead C.F.P. Next Year At Tech
Monday night, May 9, CFP elected Paul Farrell of Phi 
Kappa Theta to serve a second term as president of CFP; an 
unprecedented honor. Chosen to assist Paul as Vice-Presi­
dent was Dave Morris of Pi Kappa Alpha. Other officers 
elected were Ron D’Angelo, DU
secretary, Ron McCausland, SAE, jfl Staduilll 
treasurer, and Dick Heiman, BSP,
MoreOga IReadv For Use
Chosen to serve on CFP court 
were: John Kahler, ATO, Chief 
Justice; John Metro, DTD; Pete 
Bouxsein, SN, and Dave Morris,
PIKA, justices. Alternate justice 
Andrews, Joe Smith, and Dario 
Ramazotti are emergency justices.
Next October
Scotch ’n Soda 
Chooses New 
Board Members
The Scotch ’n Soda Club of 
1961 has already moved into "full 
operation with the election of ma­
jor officers and the new Scotch ’n 
Soda Executive Board.
The producing staff, as the ex­
ecutive board i? also known, in­
cludes: George Diehl, Pat Downer, 
Elizabeth Kim, Jerry Lehman, 
Pat Moore, Bev. Patton, Bill 
Pence, Bob Stocking, and S t u 
Warshawsky. Elected as the pres­
ident and executive producer of 
the 1961 production is Bill Pence. 
He will be assisted by Jerry Leh­
man, who is the vice-president 
and treasurer.
A Secret
Although the 1961 show has 
been kept under cover to this 
date, it is widely known that the 
show is completely written, and 
Scotch ’n Soda seems off to pro­
ducing the best sh»w in its his­
tory. But come September, the 
club has promised that they will 
disclose their new product for our 
approval.
More posters? But where will 
they go?
On May 10, work began on 
Carnegie Tech’s new athletic field 
and stadium. Work on the foun­
dations of the new grandstand has 
begun, and the construction com- 
. pany believes it should progress 
| rapidly.
j The grandstand was designed 
| by Architects Celli-Flynn of Mc- 
| Keesport, and will seat six thou- 
I sand spectators at Tt^ch’s future 
outdoor athletic events.
The structure will be construct­
ed of pre-cast, steel-reinforced 
concrete. This is a new concept 
in building, and the grandstand 
will be the first element of Tech’s 
extensive building program to be 
constructed in this manner. The 
large pillars and suppoi’ts will be 
transported to the construction 
The leadership of Panhellenic j s**e anc* firmly bolted to the con- 
Council was recently turned over j cre^e foundation anchors. The in­
to a new corps of officers. In- dividual pieces will overlap and 
stalled on May 3, 1960, were interlock.
Long Term Loans
Students who wish to ap­
ply for long term loans for the 
academic year 1960-61 should 
pick up application blanks in 
A. H. 154 prior to June 3.
Sorority FallOf
Rush Revised
President Joyce Rayvid of Alpha 
Epsilon Phi; vice-president, Mary 
Scannell of Delta Gamma; secre­
tary, Peggy Ford, Chi Omega;
Grandstand Area
The grandstand area will be 
one tier with entrances at the 
bottom and midway to the top.
treasurer, Linda Gluchow, ¿..EPhi; It will be largely uncovered.‘with 
and rush chairman, Judy Rau, j a small overhanging roof protect- 
Delta Delta Delta. j ing the rear benches. A press box
New committee chairmen are: - an<* president’s box, both enclos- 
Carol McKee, assistant rush; Judy ed, will be situated to the rear of 
McKee, social; Phyllis Ihrig, Greek j the grandstand, underneath the 
Sing; Diane Celio, Activities Fair roof.
and special projects; Sandy Horn, j Seating facilities will consist of 
faculty-student representative to ! continuous rows of steel supported 
Judicial Court of Appeals; and ' benches. Each bench will be built 
Kay Verwohlt and Fran Gazze, of three 3’’x5’’ planks.
constitution committee; junior re­
presentatives, publicity committee. 
Fall Rush
The new structure will be con­
structed to facilitate any future 
additions or enlargement. Future
Fall sorority rush has been cut, j features of the new stadium will 
by a vote of all sororities, to a one j include a fully modern electric 
week system. On Sunday, Septem- scoreboard.
Free Rooks
Students! On May 21, the 
Faculty Book Evchange makes 
a limited number of books 
available without cost. For se­
lections ask the librarian in 
Main Library.
ber 25, formal rush will open 
with an Open House of all soror­
ities. There will be open parties 
on Monday and Tuesday at the 
Union.
Wednesday, September 28, will 
be a free day, but final parties 
will be held over the week-end. 
Bids will be given out at the be­
ginning of the next week.
Panhel’s usual rushing rules 
and standards will be observed, 
of course, during formal rush.
The football field and track are 
not included in the grandstand 
contract, and will be concluded 
seperately. j
Work on the grandstand is 
scheduled for completion by Sept. 
1, 1960, and, according to super­
intendant George Timblin, is pro­
ceeding on schedule. The entire 
stadium and playing field is to be 
reseeded and completed in time 
for it’s first projected football 
game, October 17, 1960.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 18, i960
Besides wringing extra miles from every gallon, and besides stacking up as 1960's 
outstanding car—look what else Corvair has in store for you. The smooth-as-butter 
ride you get from independent suspension at all four wheels. The increased 
traction that comes with the engine’s weight over the 
rear wheels—where it should be in a compact car. A ¦ ffcf||*tfOip 
practically flat floor, a folding rear seat, five Jaunty r VV" V€U|_ 
models, including the new Monza Club Coupe.
Tech Receives 
Sloan Grant
Pittsburgh, Pa. May 12, 1960—
The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation 
has granted $46,800 to Carnegie 
Institute of Technology for the 
3960-61 academic year, to con­
tinue its program of engineering 
and sciences scholarships inaugu­
rated in 1953.
Each year six entering fresh­
man at Carnegie Tech have re­
ceived awards based on individual 
needs to support their four years 
of college studies. The students 
are selected on the basis of aca­
demic achievement and leadership 
potential for their profession or 
career and for their community. 
The awards are renewed for each 
student yearly, subject to satis­
factory performance.
Tuition
Recognizing that tuition alone 
does not pay the full cost of edu­
cation, the foundation also gives 
Tech an additional allotment for 
each student.
In announcing the Sloan Foun­
dation grant for 1960-61, Dr. J. C. 
Warner, president, stated, “This 
program benefits worthy students 
who merit support. It also benefits
Carnegie Tech by helping to at­
tract students of high quality and 
by supplying supplemental funds 
for our general educational pur­
poses.”
Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., former 
chairman of the board and presi­
dent of General Motors and now 
honorary board chairman, created 
the Sloan Foundation in 1934. The 
foundation has been active in sev­
eral research and educational 
areas, including the Alfred P. 
Sloan National Scholarship Pro­
gram, the establishment of the 
School of Industrial Management 
at Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, and the Sloan-Ketter- 
ing Institute for Cancer Research.
Dr. Modigliani 
Receives Honor
Pittsburgh, Pa., May 12, 1960— 
Dr. Franco Modigliani of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology’s Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion was elected a Fellow of the 
American Acedemy of Arts and 
Sciences at its 180th Annual Meet­
ing last night (11) in Boston.
Professor of Economics and In- 
[continued on page 8]
Cultural 
Calendar
This year’s Spring Festival of 
Contemporary Music ends Satur­
day, May 21, with a program pre­
senting the music of Paul Creston, 
a leading American composer.
Mr. Creston will explain his 
music using his Sonata for Alto 
Saxophone and Piano, String
New Officers 
Elected
'Another successful year for 
Scabbard and Blade is nearing 
completion. Under the direction of 
its retiring officers, Capt. Mike 
Dougherty, Lt. A1 Albright, Lt. 
Andy Blaskovich, and Sgts. 
Charles Nelson and A1 Patz, the 
National Military Honor Society 
sponsored the Military Department 
Open House, sponsored the Mili­
tary Ball and aw7arded the best 
drilled basic cadet every week.
New officers are: Capt. A1 Patz, 
Lt. Fred Schirm, Lt. Mike George- 
lis, and Sgt. Ron Rish. Newly in­
itiated members include Dennis 
Creazzi, Ludwel Gilmer, and Dick 
Uher.
Set Tht Dinah Short Chevy Show in color Sundays, NBC-TV—tht Pat Boont Chivy Showroom weekly, ABC-TV
professional drivers got
27*03 mpg
in the Mobilgas Economy Run
Quartet, Op. 8, and Suite for Flute, 
Viola and Piano. His compositions 
emphasize the use of rhythms 
rather than melody, harmony and 
form developments. The works 
will be played by the Musical Art 
Quartet and other members of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
at 3:00 p.m. in Carnegie Music 
Hall. Admission is free.Opera
On Friday, May 20, and Satur­
day, May 21, at 8:15 p.m. and 
Sunday, May 22, at 2:30 p.m. the 
Duquesne University Workshop 
will present Gian Carlo Menotti’s 
musical drama “The Medium.” 
The opera is a suspenceful, melo-
H'dramatic story of a phony medium 
who establishes contact with the 
spirit world accidentally during a 
fake meeting with the dead.
The last program this year of 
the Filmgraphics series will be held 
Wednesday, May 18, in Porter Hall 
100 at 4:30 p.m. These film shows, 
sponsored by the College of Fine 
Arts and the School of Printing 
Management, are particularly for 
students interested in the " 'is. 
This week’s movies are a German 
film on Goethe, “Bateau Ivre,” a 
French film of Rimbaud’s life, 
“Painter of Borgo,” an Italian film 
on Viero della Francisca, and “Les 
Aventures de la Mouche Cleve.”
CampusfcithMaxShuhan
(Author of “7 Was a Teen-age Dwarf”,“The Marty 
Loves of Dobie GtUis”, etc.)
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
Today I conclude my sixth year of writing columns for the 
makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris cigarettes. It has been 
my custom during these six years to make no attempt to be 
funny in this final column. (I have achieved this objective 
many times during the year also, but never on purpose.) The 
reasons for the lack of levity in this final column are two: first, 
you are preparing for final exams and, short of holding you 
down and tickling you, there is no way in the world to make you 
laugh at this tin»; and, second, for many of us this is a leave- 
taking, and leave-takings, I think, ought not be flippant.
If I have brought you a moment or two of cheer during the 
past year, I am rewarded. If I have persuaded you to try 
Marlboro or Philip Morris cigarettes, you are rewarded.
let me pause here to express my heartfelt gratitude to the 
makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris. They have given me 
complete freedom in the writing of these columns. There has 
not been the slightest hint of censorship. They have never 
changed so much as one comma in my copy. I wish to take this 
occasion to state publicly that I am forever grateful to these 
enlightened tobacconists and I hereby serve notice that if they 
find it in their corporate heart to engage me for another year 
of columning, I shall require a substantial increase in salary.
The money is not what matters—not as money, that is, but 
only as a token. I want to be assured that they love me as 
much as I love Marlboro and Philip Morris. And what, indeed, 
is not to love? Marlboro is a cigarette which proves beyond 
cavil that flavor did not go out 'when filters came in. Philip 
Morris is a cigarette that is pure mildness from lip-end to tip- 
end. Both of these estimable smokes come in soft-pack or 
flip-top box. Neither is ever sold in bulk.
voted 
**Car of the Year9*
by editors of
Motor Trend
magazine 
:
Corvair 700 4-Door Sedan
Check the low price tag at your local authorized Chevrolet dealer's
The summer lies ahead. For underclassmen summer will be 
a hiatus, a breather in which to restore yourselves for next 
year’s resumption of busy college life. For seniors there will 
be no more college. You must not, however, despair and abandon 
yourself to idleness. There are other things to do in the world 
besides going to school—basket weaving, for example, or build­
ing boats in bottles, or picking up tinfoil, or reading “War and 
Peace.’’ Many graduates fall into the erroneous belief that their 
lives are over when they leave college. This is not so. It is 
possible to make some sort of life for yourself with a bit of 
ingenuity ... or, if that fails, dye your hair, change your name, 
and enroll at some other college.
Whatever the future holds for you, be assured that the makers 
of Marlboro and Philip Morris join me in wishing you the best 
of everything. We have taken great pleasure—the makers and 
1 I—in bringing you this column each week throughout the school 
year. We hope a little pleasure has accrued to you too.
May good fortune attend your ventures. Stay happy. Stay 
healthy. Stay loose.
9S 1000 M»i ShulnxM
* * *
We, the makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris, can only 
echo kindly old Max’s parting words. Stay happy. Stay 
healthy. Stay loom.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 18, I960 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 3
CongressStudent
System Organizes
One of the most important actions of the Student Gov­
ernment this year was the establishment of a new and inte- 
I^Jted student court system. Final action is now being taken 
by the organizations involved in the shift to implement the
new system before it goes into4------------------------------------------—---------------
effect in September.
No Supreme Court
The major accomplishment of 
the Student Government action is 
the abolishment of the present 
impressive-sounding but ineffec­
tive Supreme Court and the con­
sociation of the other four exist­
ing courts — Men’s Dormitory 
Council, Women’s Dormitory 
Council, Council of Fraternity 
Presidents, and Panhellenic Coun­
cil — into a unified judicial sys­
tem. Added to these courts is a 
new Student Court having much 
the same powers as the other four 
courts. The final major change 
i?^he establishment of a Court 
of Appeals having power over all 
the other student courts and con­
sisting of one elected representa­
tive of ¿ach of these courts.
Eliminate Problems
It is hoped that the new court 
system will permit many types of 
cases previously tried by the Ad­
ministration to be entrusted to the 
h;^ds of the students. In addition 
the new system should eliminate 
two existing problems .
More Jurisdiction
First, at present, a court gains 
jurisdiction over a case by the 
somewhat random process of al­
lowing the person or group press­
ing charges to select the body to 
which to present the complaint. 
This has led to some bitterness 
ai\; inconvenience in several in­
stances.
Second, the several courts have 
had widely divei'gent methods of 
making their decisions official. In 
some cases the decision was offi­
cial immediately, with no appeal. 
In some cases the decision was 
first approved by the Administra­
tion, and then there was no ap­
peal. In other cases the decision 
could be appealed to the Admini- 
st&iion or to some national or­
ganization.
Court Members
Under the new system, the 
courts have jurisdiction over 
charges of violations which are 
solely of rules of their parent 
organizations. Cases not falling in 
this category are presented to the 
Courts of Appeals, which then 
assigns the case to the appropri- 
ate^court. In addition, no case may 
v ried by the Administration 
without prior approval of the stu­
dents, as represented by the Chief 
Justice of the Court of Appeals. 
If he does not give his approval, 
then the Court of Appeals and the 
Administration’s Discipline Com­
mittee meet together to decide 
whether the Administration or the 
students will try the case. This 
system should, in the future, re­
move virtually all complaints 
ab3t jurisdiction.
The problem of appeals has 
been handled by establishing a 
uniform procedure for all courts. 
All decisions, except for decisions 
in specified types of minor cases, 
may be disapproved by the. Court 
of Appeals, either on its own ac­
cord or at the request of the Ad­
ministration. If a decision is not 
disapproved within a specified 
tirnn it becomes official, but the 
deMidant may, if he wishes, ap­
peal the decision to the Court of 
Appeals within five school days. 
If the appeal is accepted, the 
original court may be ordered to 
retry the case, or the Court of 
Appeals may itself try the case. 
Most decisions thus become offic­
ial within the framework of the 
student court system, without re­
course to the Administration. But
of course the Administration 
maintain the right to review de­
cisions serious enough to include 
notation on a student’s academic 
record.
Case Jurisdiction
The members of the various 
courts are now being appointed, 
and the courts should soon be 
having preliminary meetings. CFP 
Court of Justice has been selected, 
and John Kahler has been elected 
by it to serve on the Court of 
Appeals. The Student Court has 
also been selected. Its members 
are Sonya Blank, John (Pat) Cre- 
cine, Michael Georgelis, John 
Lepperd, Michael Scott Morton, 
Beverly Patton, and Gary Turn- 
quist.
WRCT Will Have 
Newest Facilities
WRCT, Carnegie Tech’s student 
operated campus radio station, 
will broadca't from the newest 
studios in Pittsburgh when it 
moves into its headquarters in the 
Campus Activities Center this fall.
The $3,000,000 building will pro­
vide new technical and studio fa­
cilities for the station whose sig­
nal is picked up only on the Tech 
campus. The Campus Activities 
Center will also provide food 
service for students and faculty, 
editorial offices for publications, 
meeting rooms, and a ballroom for 
on-campus social affairs.
Details of the new WRCT facili­
ties were discussed by two repre­
sentatives of the station at a re­
cent meeting of the Intercollegiate 
Broadcasting System at Columbia 
University. Be: Gibbons, station
manager, and Don Furgerson, chief 
engineer, reported on a new con­
trol console designed and con­
structed by student station per­
sonnel at a cost of $500 which 
equals commercial equipment that 
would cost over $2000.
Tenth Year
In its tenth year of operation, 
WRCT uses the “carrier current” 
method of transmission. With this
Mary Jo Loomis; Publicity Direc« 
tor, Ann Snellenburg; Sales Man-» 
ager, Open; 1960 should prove to 
be the very best one for WRCT
system the electric power lines in ' with the new student union, cre- 
the dormitories and other build- ative ideas aftd most of all the 
ings radiate the signal but confine very best in radio listening for alL
it to the immediate campus area, j ---------------------------------
WRCT is on the air 18 hours a day 
with music, campus news, dis- ' 
cussion programs, and special ex­
change programs from other IBS 
college stations.
Elections 
WRCT held elections of the new
Pershing Rifles 
Holds Election
On Tuesday, May 3, the Persh­
ing Rifles Company A-5 held its 
positions for the coming year. eiection of officers for the coming 
Among those elected were. Station ; year The new officers, were sworn 
Manager, Bert Gibbons; Program in and installed on the following 
Director, Paul Pearson; Chief En-;Thursday Retiring Captain Cup-
gineer, Don Fergerson; Chief An
nouncer, John Steyers: Business | newly 
Manager, Kears Pollock. (These 
are the top five positions on the 
board or better known as CITBA).
The following were also elected:
Chief Studio Engineer, Barry
pett turned the company over to 
elected Captain Ludwell 
Gilmer, who installed the rest of 
i the staff. The other new officers 
; and their ranks are as follows: XO 
: —1st Lt. Stanley Doran, S-l—2nd
Roth; Chief Planning Engineer, Lt. Charles Raquet, S-2—Warrant Open; Chief Audio Engineer, Stan j Qfficer Victor Dob s_3_ lgt ^ 
Doran; Chief Radio Engineer, , , „ , - , _
Dave Thompson; Continuity Di- John Wllson’ S-4-2nd Lt. Nilo
rector, Caroline Rohrbough; Mu- Niccolai, and First Sergeant Frank
sic Directors, Bonnie McIntosh, Piotrowski.
YOU WON’T REST ON YOUR LAURELS AT IBM
OUTSTANDING CAREER TRAINING KEEPS YOU 
LEARNING AND GROWING: at IBM, qualified 
college graduates rapidly develop a broad under- 
standingofthe many worlds of business. IBM Sales 
Representatives, for example, learn to work with 
the top executives of different firms, helping them 
introduce modern data processing techniques.
Whether you’re majoring in engineering, science, 
math, business administration, or liberal arts, you
should know about us and about the varied careers 
we have to offer. See your Placement Officer for 
more information. If we have already interviewed 
on this campus, and you did not get to see us, 
please write or call:
Mr. G. W. Walkup, Branch Manager 
International Business Machines Corporation 
421 7th Avenue, Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Telephone: COurt 1-6880
DATA PROCESSING DIVISION

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. May 18, 196*
TARNOERVY
The Enchanted City
Once upon a time, long ago, there was a far away place called the City, of Individual 
Termination. Ot course, it was not one of those easily accessible places familiar to you and 
I. for anything enchanted is difficult to find. And this was such an enchanted place. You 
see, it was “enchanted’' something like the Fountain of Youth. However, the Fountain of 
Youth kept people young. The City of Individual Termination made people-intelligent.
From far and wide people came to the city: small people, large people, and medium 
people; technicians, artists, and workers; good folk, bad folk, and regular folk; smart 
humans, stupid humans, and average humans; men, women, and even those less fortunate. 
In droves they flocked to the city, all excitedly seeking intelligence .— more and more 
intelligence. At any cost they must have intelligence!
The City Planners
Now there also lived a group of people who were permanent residents of our “en­
chanted city.” They were the guardians and creators of the secret potion that made the 
visitors wise. This group of “conjurers,” as you could easily call them, were named the 
“City Planners,” and their secret formula of intelligence was appropriately called the “City 
Plan.” This “City Plan” formula had wonderful elements in it — three in all. There was 
intellect, imagination, and individuality. In those days that’s what “intelligence” was, and 
those who savored this potion were made very wise.
Then there came so many people to the City of Individual Termination, all wanting 
to become wise, that the City Planners had a difficult time managing the business. But 
this was not the gravest problem. The young King of the Upper Kingdom, who ruled over 
the whole upper half of the world, (which included the “enchanted city”) ordered that 
the enchanted city supply even more people with intelligence, so that his half of the 
world would be the wisest.
Trouble!
The poor City Planners were running themselves ragged giving more people more of 
the City Plan potion, so that they would gain the king’s favor. But, alas! There were so 
many people that came so fast, several of the wells that supplied one of the valuable ele­
ments began to dry up. Yes, before long, the entire supply of the element “individuality’ 
was depleted. The city planners might have drilled more new wells of this precious ele­
ment, but they could not take the time. Instead, they found an easy substitute which was 
in great supply. This was the element “conformity.”
Only a short time passed, and the City Planners found that another element was 
in short supply. This was “imagination.” To remedy this situation, they cut this part of 
the formula in half so that there would always be enough. As to the supply of intellect? 
Oh, there were many, massive deep wells of that. The City of Individual Termination 
would never run out of intellect. So, for better or for worse, the City Planners, mind you, 
good souls at heart, found themselves developing a new formula: one part “intellect” to one 
part “conformity” to one-half part “imagination.” With this new potion, there would be 
plenty of the City Plan to fill all who came. And the people became intelligent.
Years Later
Many years passed, fifty or so, and the King of the Upper Kingdom, now quite old, 
became involved in a great war with the lower half of the world. Naturally, he felt he 
could rely on all his super-intelligent populace to fight the enemy. He gave a great speech 
in front of the multitude who were assembled in front of his castle.
But a strange thing happened. No one would listen to him. They seemed bored. 
In a crucial hour, the King failed to arouse any excitement in his people. They didn’t care 
what happened, as long as they wouldn’t be bothered. They wanted only to follow their 
own super-intelligent pursuits such as eating, sleeping, and being entertained. It was 
difficult enough to become concerned over one’s own personal problems. Why should they 
help the King?
Angered at this response, the King quickly proclaimed a new draft law. (The peo­
ple objected, of course, but they didn’t want to spend the time to impeach him.) All men 
who had savored the City Plan potion were recruited into his super-intelligent Army. Since 
the old weapons were outdated, the King ordered that the Army’s first project would be to 
design new, revolutionary weapons. *
Individuality?
But alas, a second great tragedy came. The King soon discovered that his Army was 
unable to create new weapons. The old ruler looked among his men and discovered that 
each of them expected help or advice from someone else. All asked for advice, but none 
could give it. The King was surprised to see that his super-intelligent Army could not 
create anything new — each man looked mechanically to his associates (these people had 
no friends) for help, yet none gave it: there was no formula for creating something original.
The poor King had many intelligent people — yes, very intelligent. But then it was 
too late, for the war had ended.
And they did not live happily ever after.
(MORAL: Robots may Jbe supremely intelligent creatures, but they have: , . no passion,
do soul . . r —Karel Capek (R.U.R.) W.E.P.
WE.P.
'V '!||IillReaders Write...
Babyl
Editor, The Tartan.
Dear Sir:
“Stroll on the American 
provocative piece. In the eyes 
aroused both concern and pleas-^ 
ure: concern for a situation which, 
it seems, has got out of hand and 
pleasure in that the Tartan, in 
printing it, has taken an implicit 
stand.
It need scarcely be noted that 
the American campus is not alone 
in its apathy. Nor is disinterest to 
be found only at such schools as 
Tech. Not for nothing was Pre­
mier Macmillan elected Chancellor 
of Oxford over the painfully face­
tious slogan “nihil habeamus si 
bonum.” Not too sharp an eye is 
needed to detect that apathy is at 
the root of young Germany’s 
ignorance of the Hitlerite era. 
We, too, have never had it so good 
—so why should we care? It is a 
miserable excuse, however, to 
claim justification on the grounds 
that we are no worse than every­
one else.
Work Load
It is true that we have a huge 
work load and yes—there is lit­
tle free time left for relaxation or 
pleasure. It is true that we came 
to Tech to be trained, primarily, 
in our specialities and wish to be 
quit of our studies as soon as pos­
sible. It is true, moreover, that 
we live in a competitive world in 
which our a hievements must talk 
for us and not our attitudes. So 
therefore we must leave an in­
terest in the world’s problems to 
our history and English teachers, 
the b-s courses, the fuzzy think­
ers and the girls.
So we join a fraternity and let 
the social chairman save us the 
trouble of thinking on week-ends. 
And if enough beer has been 
drunk one does not have even to 
talk sense. But the trouble can­
not be that we are “a bunch of 
engineers” or even that we belong 
to a science orienated society: 
that is too pat an answer. It does 
not explain why we do not care 
about somebody else’s “bad luck.” 
After all, if he is hungry, he was 
born that way. If he objects to the 
Bomb, he’s nearer the Russians 
than we are.
The Past
The Roman Empire declined 
and fell, deserting the ideals of 
Cato to run amok after the pro­
fligacy of Nero and Caius Cali­
gula. With the Vandals at the 
gates of Rome, the senate sat and 
quaked. The Bourbons ignored 
the third estate in their revels at 
Versailles—and lost their heads. 
The man with the umbrella went 
to Munich, but the man with the 
cigar said, “we will fight in the 
hills.” Ignorance in the midst of 
plenty is bliss. The communes of 
Red China are a “bad thing” and 
the less we know of them the bet­
ter. King Canute Vorwoerd say­
ing “no” to the black African tidal 
wave is something of a joke. No, 
it cannot be true that we have 
nothing to fight for or care about.
But these are mundane things 
which are boring to talk about. 
The right always wins and we are 
right; history is on our side. In 
the words of Arthur C. Clark: 
“Land of Lincoln, Franklin and
on
Campus” was a timely and 
of one foreigner, at least, it
Melville, I love y6u and I wish 
you well. But into my heart blows 
a cold wind from the past, for I 
remember Babylon.”
Yours sincerely,
Spectator
Abolish
»
no student who could not join o^ 
of these and at least partly fill hfs
Organizations?
Editor, the Tartan
The purpose of an organization 
is to perform a service. If no one 
needs the service, the organiza­
tion should be discontinued. P'% 
haps then, some of our campus or­
ganizations should be discontinued 
because their members do not 
need the services the organizations 
offer.
In most cases, an organization’s 
service is duplicated by at least 
one other organization. There are 
on campus the fraternities, the 
sororities, the Dorm Social League, 
and Citcom Clan. I can think of1
social needs. But several other 
organizations on campus contrib­
ute to a student’s social life. There 
are departmental societies which 
promote study in their particular 
fields and sponsor social func­
tions. There are the YMCA and 
YWCA, the Newman Club, and 
Hillel which, although their pri­
mary aim is religious in nature, 
sponsor social events for they* 
members. There are the “C” Clu5 
and the Veterans’ Club each of 
which contributes to its members’ 
social life.
Cultural
The Tech student does not lack 
cultural facilities either. He may 
join the Cameron Choir, the Stu­
dent Chorus, the Film Arts So­
ciety, the Kiltie Band, the Orches­
tra, or the Scotch ’n Soda Club. 
Or, if he prefers to apprecirV 
someone else’s art, he may atteira 
the Music Department concerts 
and recitals, the Drama Depart­
ment presentations or the art ex­
hibits. There are also many off- 
campus attractions. Carnegie Mu­
seum sponsors public art exhibi­
tions and free organ recitals. Re­
nowned artists often appear at 
Carnegie Music Hall, and at Syria 
Mosque there are opera presenta­
tions and weekly Pittsburgh Sym­
phony concerts. The Playhou.« 
and the Nixon theatre have live 
musical productions and drama. 
The theatres in Squirrel Hill, 
Shadyside, and downtown Pitts­
burgh provide a wide variety of 
film entertainment.
I Sports
Even our sports events have 
competition. Pittsburgh has pro­
fessional baseball and football, 
and television brings footba'i* 
baseball, basketball, and hocke^ 
right into the dorms. Yet I have 
by no means mentioned all of -the 
opportunities open to the Tech 
student for enriching his social, 
[continued on page 7]
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
SPMfresr sfidsdndr t’ drSRftctep
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors, MU 2-8890, MU 3-0950; Ad­
vertising Manager, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of Car­
negie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa._______________
VOLUME52 ————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— MNN BRMWDSNAWM
Ce~Fditor ............................................................................................................... B‘>> *»»••BwinrM Manager ...............................Mtk*
")

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 18, 1960 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — P»*e 5
New cigarette paper “air-softens” every puff!
Now even the paper adds to 
Salem's springtime freshness!
Salem's amazing new 
HIGH POROSITY paper 
air-softens" every puff.
Y,1M8M9A6 porou« opening« 
blend ¡u*t »He right amount of o»r with 
each puff PM give yow o »öfter, fresher.
oven mor* flovorful »moke.
NOW MORE THAN EVER
Crested br B J. Reynold« Tobacco Company
fresh air in through the paper to make the 
smoke taste even softer, fresher, more 
flavorful. If you’ve enjoyed Salem’s spring­
time freshness before, you’ll be even more 
pleased now. Smoke ref reshed, smoke Salem!
An important break-through in Salem's 
research laboratories brings you this 
special new High Porosity paper which 
breathes new freshness into the flavor.
Each puff on a Salem draws just enough
• menthol fresh • rich tobacco taste
Salem refreshes your taste
modern filter, too
WRCT
ON EVERY TECH 
DIAL
All students who expect to register for evening summer 
courses are requisted to inform the Registrar of Evening 
Masses since permit cards will be mailed prior to the evening 
registration. Class schedules are as follows:
o----------------------—----------------------..June 13 to August 6, 1960
HlCmwalhm
d^yvu A.1 P.A54 eb­T4 Fgk ,4Y4’4 
SA5V-5-I s Fgk
P.A54 eb­T4 9 SA5V-5-I ss Fy6k
P.A54 eb­T4 9 SA5V-5-I sss Fak
P.A54 eb­T4 9 SA5V-5-I s0 Fjhk
dlCmwal‘m
i6A6yVI Dak HlCmwalhm
JG.ATybI F!Ok
Ryv2b^ ,A62u B­^ ryi i6-1b.6I ss FaE 
r.v4 ,bAI-^bTb.6I ,4Y4’4 mlCmwalCm
L^A7u f —bIV4 eb­T4 s Fak ,4Y4’4
NlCmwjmlhm 
—^A74 f ObIVu eb­T4 ss Fak ,4Y4’4
W mlCmw y mlhm
rV­.­TyVI s Fak ,4 d24 Hlmmwal‘m
rV­.­TybI ss Fak d-4 ’4 Hlmmwal‘m
8-Iy.bII cA7 s ,4Y4 Hlmmwal‘m
s.6^­4 LI3V2­5­v3 Fak ,4Y4’4 HlCmwalhm 
r.v5yI2 S­T«­Iy6y­. Fak ,4Y4’4
HlCmwalhm 
r.v5yI2 S­T«­Iy6y­. Fak ,4Y4’4
HlCmwalCm 
6^­4 6­ s4y6b^A6-^b Fak ,4Y4’4
HlCmwalhm
rV­.4 e^­762 f ’5-V64 y. PTb^yVA
Fak ,4Y4’4 HlCmwalhm
Registration will be held on j 
Monday evening, June 13, between J 
7:00 and 9:00. (Place to be an- j 
nounced later). Students register­
ed during the past year should 
present their original registration 
receipt cards. The schedule of 
classes goes into effect on Tues­
day, June 14. Classes with less 
y^n tcvi registrants may be can- 
iwfred.
Phi Gamma Phi 
Elects Officers
At a combined social and busi­
ness meeting on May 15, 1960 Phi 
Gamma Pi elected officers for the 
1960-61 school semesters. Sue 
Anne Schultz will serve as Presi­
dent, assisted by Vice President, 
Barbara Klawinski, Betty Jane 
Reitz, Secretary, and Mary Alice 
Peterson, Treasurer.
In addition to electing officers, 
the sorority made plans for an an­
nual banquet to be held on June 
29. Betty Jane Reitz will make 
arrangements and advise members 
of details concerning the banquet 
and entertainment.
VOLU ME5OL2
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
HeVNrER’s mRV’RoN 
mVrY nOye’
JR 1-8334
Here’s money-saving newsfor students, faculty anu all other college personnel. Dur­ing weekends and college vacations, Sheraton offers you special low rates — even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room. Special group rates are pro­vided for athletic teams, clubs, other college organ­izations.You get these discounts at any of Sheraton’s 54 hotels in the U.S.A., Hawaii and Canada. Just present your Sheraton Student I.D. Card or Faculty Guest Card when you register. To get your Sheraton card or make reser­vations, contact;
YOUR LOCAL 
TRAVEL BUREAU
0Th hisfal 0V'h'
Increased Aid
JVfcre than other students, 
tion at night school can most 
given to their efforts and thos< 
the success of their endeavors. 
Tech are increasingly aware of< 
tre increased support and interest 
of industries in Pittsburgh.
Verification of increased interest 
is contained in the May-June is­
sue of Harvard Business Review 
which outlines the “Emerging Pat­
tern in Corporate Giving.” The ar­
ticle point out that management 
sees clearly that support of edu­
cation is not just philanthrophy 
but an investment that benefits the 
corporation, which, not only stim­
ulates the growth of new knowl­
edge but results in an adequate 
supply of educated manpower. 
Useful kinds of institutional aid 
listed are:
Aid
1. Unrestricted grants for current 
operations (including faculty 
salaries).
2. Capital Grants.
3. Student Aid.
4. Grants for faculty and staff 
compensation.
5. Aid in spreading the base for 
support of higher education.
Although much of the support 
Seems directed towards students 
who are able to attend day 
school, indirectly the benefits are 
received by night school students, 
not only through scholarship aid 
but in the additional facilities 
made available, and particularly 
in regard to an improved and in­
creased faculty. At Carnegie Tech 
each year night school students 
have been assigned many mem­
bers of the day school staff, as 
j well as men well qualified through
I industrial experience and educa­
tional background. In addition 
j many professors from the Gradu- 
| ate School of Industrial Adminis-
i tration have been assigned to the
I night school endeavors. Their ed­
ucational background and ability 
are clearly an asset to evening 
students assigned to their instruc­
tion.
Is Investment
hose who acquire their educa- 
fully appreciate the support 
of educational institutions to 
Evening students at Carnegie
As this is the last issue of the 
PLAID for the present term, Eve­
ning Student Council wishes to 
take this opportunity to remind all 
evening students who wish to reg­
ister for evening summer courses 
to inform IVJr. McKelway, Regis­
trar, so that permit cards may be 
mailed prior to the evening of 
registration, Monday, June 13, 
time 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Classes be­
gin Tuesday, June 14.
To all evening students Coun­
cil expresses the hope for an en­
joyable summer. May you return 
in the fall with renewed vigor to 
resume your studies and join 
Council in the many social activi­
ties planned for your enjoyment.
Insignia Awards 
Presented At the 
Evening Banquet
At the annual Evening Student 
Banquet at Colonial Manor, May
7, Evening Student Council pre­
sented Insignia Aw’ards to the fol­
lowing evening students:
First Award: Eleanor B. Iwin- 
ski, Betty Jane Reitz, John R. 
Ackerman, Fred Ackerman, Jo­
seph C. Deleo, Ted J. Gilbert, Rob­
ert Makar, and Russel E. Orme.
Second Award: Shirley M.
Kreidwise, Jancy Spannuth, Den­
nis C. DeStefano, and James 
Morrisard.
Third Award: Don Morin.
Fourth Award: Ronald Craig
and Andrew Oravetz.
Eighth Award: Mary Alice 
Peterson and Victor Sabol.
In addition to the above awards 
for contributing to the efforts of 
Evening Student Council during 
the 1959-1960 term, Ronald Craig: 
was presented with the President’s 
Gavel and Victor Sabol received 
the Advisor’s Key.
Sheraton Hotels
STUDENT-FACULTY 
DISCOUNTS
x This page edited by Evening School Students of the<5./ Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ..............................................................................Mary Alice Pererson
Night Class Schedule 
For Summer Session

---------------------------------------------------

T»ge 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May li, 196$
HAIR
TONIC
VaselineTRADE MARK«
—NBERL
TONtCf
Y, Eo6 95EEA6 r,U 5, e5n2 orM2 
Eo6 UMtt626,p6 M8 pA6r2Ae Eo626g
tie R O T C
Guidon
TARNOE- TA aeE’eE
Dean’s Review Held In 
Inclement Weather
Last Thursday, in spite of the 
inclement weather, the annual 
Dean’s review of the ROTC Regi­
ment was held. The ceremonies 
were understangably delayed and 
also’limited by the weather, since 
only those receiving awards and 
the leading companies of each 
battalion were present in Thistle 
Hall.
Michael J. Dougherty, Captain 
of Scabbard and Blade, presented 
the awards for Best Drilled Cadet 
of the Year and Best Drilled Com­
pany of the Year to Cadet John 
Wilson and John Lemmer, A Com­
pany Commander, respectively. 
Colonel William E. Feeman, Pro­
fessor of Military Science and 
Tactics, presented the SAME Rifle 
Award to Joseph J. Smith for 
placing as one of the five high in­
dividual scorers in the Society of 
Military Engineers ROTC Rifle 
Match.
IRLI
The Greater Pittsburgh Inter­
collegiate Rifle League Individual 
Trophies were presented by Dr. 
Earle R. Swank, Dean of Men, 
and Mr. Glen U. Cleeton, Dean of 
Humanistic and Social Studies, to 
members of the rifle team who at­
tained high individual averages in 
league competition: Joseph Smith, 
John Jenkins, Robert White, Wil­
liam Houck, Larry Burtner, and 
Leo Freudenreich.
Awards were also presented to 
those who fired the highest aver­
ages in league competition in the 
prone, kneeling, and standing po­
sitions. Leo Freudenrfeich received 
the trophies for the highest aver­
ages in the prone and kneeling po-
S.A.M.E. Takes 
Trip On Ohio and 
Allegheny Rivers
The Carnegie Tech Chapter j 
of Aherkan Military Engineers j 
closed the year’s activities by par- 1 
ticipating -in a river cruise inspect- j 
ing navigation facilities on the 
Ohio and Monongahela Rivers, j 
The students were guests of the j 
U. S. Army Engineer District, I 
Pittsburgh.
The trip started at Neville 
Island, where the group boarded 
the “Gateway Clipper.” The cruise 
proceeded up the Ohio River j 
through the Emsworth Locks, past 
the Golden Triangle, and up the 
Monongahela River to Lock No. 2 
at Braddock.
Present on the SAME-sponsored 
trip were Col. W. E. Feeman, 
Capt. J. A. Richbourg, faculty ad- i 
visor to SAME, and Capt. L. B. 
Pick. Hosts for the day included 
Mr. Wm. H. Comles and Mr. Wm. 
J. Regan of the Operations Divi­
sion, and Mr. D. K. Williams, the 
Technical Liaison Officer.
sition from Dr. Edward R. Schatz, 
Associate Dean of Engineering and 
Science, and Dr. Norman L. Rice, 
Dean of the College of Fine Arts, 
respectively. Mrs. Virginia Milli­
gan, Dean of Women, awarded the 
trophy for standing high average 
to Joseph Smith.
The Carnegie Tech Rifle Team 
was presented the Western Penn­
sylvania Athletic Conference Tro­
phy for their unsurpassed efforts 
in league competition. Robert 
White received the award for the 
team from Dr. George K. Brown, 
Dean of Student Personnel and 
Welfare.
Final Awards
Dr. Richard B. Teare, Dean of 
Engineering and Science, pre­
sented the final awards to Dis­
tinguished Military Students for 
their outstanding academic and 
military achievement during their 
ROTC careers at Carnegie Tech. 
Senior Cadets receiving DMS Cer­
tificates were Alvin Bicker, Alan 
Rice, Alvin Albright, Carl Julian, 
Matthew Balkovic, Michael 
Dougherty, Joseph Vilga, Fred­
erick Bloom, Nicholas Fiore, John 
Lemmer, Richard LaValle, Karl 
Mandry, Don Whirlow, Lewis Al­
exander, Nick Macchiarolo, and 
Richard Waina.
HAIR AND SHAKESPEARE 331 
Essentials of Good Grooming 
Prof. Tonsorial
Introspective reading of the Bard’s works to prove that grooming was 
a motivating factor. Close observation indicating that Shakespeare’s 
heroines were disillusioned by bad grooming: Lady Macbeth by 
Macbeth’s hair that went witchever way (alcohol tonics, obviously). 
Ophelia by Hamlet’s “melancholy mane” (hair creams, no doubt)* 
Classroom lecture on how-to present the perfect image by grooming 
with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Proof beyond an ibid of a doubt that you 
can use all the water you want with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. ‘Vaseline* 
Hair Tonic replaces oil that water removes. Keeps hair neater longer 
and attracts the op. cit. sex as Romeo did Juliet.
*
Materials: one 4 oz. bottle of‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic
T LET
Darlington Rd.
frPM ,5»srPp 
Graduates or Upperclassmen
Why Not Have A 
Home Near Tech?
WINTER CLOTHES 
COMPLICATE your
HOMEGOING...
Why let yourself gel bogged down 
with packing your winter clothes . . • 
lugging them home . . . trying to find 
closet space . . . worrying about moth 
damage? And then there’s the chore 
of getting your clothes back to school 
the Fall and the expense ofinre-
pressing
We solve your entire problem with 
our bargain Box Storage . . . nothing 
to pay "till Fall! All you do is fill the
jumJ>o box we provide . . . with your 
woolen skirts, slacks, jackets, shirts, 
sweaters and the like. We take it 
from there - - drycleaning, storing, 
insuring the contents, and pressing 
every items right before delivery to 
vou in the Fall! j
All for less than 2c a day, plus the 
standard drycleaning charge which 
you’d pay anyway!
Talk To Us About Using Our Box Storage. Right Away!CAMPUS Clea ners
Call HA. 1-3754
Get four to six of your friends 
and rent a home. 13 rooms, 3 
baths, gas furnace, $182.50. 
Heat, utilities, extra.
4609 Forbes Street MUseum 1-1288
IDEAL CLEANERS, 609 N. NEVILLE STREET IS A RRANCH OF CAMPUS CLEANERS

---------------------------------------------------

i
Wednesday, May IS, I960 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page r
Placement 
Program To Cover 
17 School Districts
Pittsburgh’s pace-setting Ad­
vanced Placement Program, estab­
lished last year by Carnegie Tech 
and the Pittsburgh Board of Pub­
lic Education, will be extended to 
17 school districts in the county 
school system.
Expansion of the program, 
which has attracted nationwide 
attention, has been made possible 
by a grant of $52,50Q„ from the 
Fund for the Advancement of Ed­
ucation.
A special study program, similar 
to that now in effect in certain 
Pittsburgh high schools, will offer 
English and history courses on a 
college level, for which credit may 
be obtained from cooperating col­
leges. Selected county school 
teachers will participate in a semi­
nar this summer at Carnegie Tech 
in preparation for teaching special 
advanced courses in the fall. 
Throughout the school year Tech 
faculty will work closely with the
high school teachers in preparing 
the special materials and tech­
niques used in the courses.
Valuable Activity
In granting financial support 
necessary for the expansion of the 
Advanced Placement program, 
Clarence Faust, President of the 
Fund for the Advancement of Ed­
ucation, stated, “The Fund is im­
pressed with the progress of the 
Advanced Placement Program 
which Carnegie Tech undertook 
with the Pittsburgh Public Schools 
and believes that the extension of 
this program to the schools of Al­
legheny County will be a valuable 
activity, helpful to schools else­
where as well as in the immediate 
district.”
Over 100 local educators repre­
senting the cooperating county 
school districts and members of 
the Pittsburgh schools now in­
volved in the Advanced Placement 
program attended a dinner meet­
ing last night (May 3) at the Car­
negie Union. Progress of the pro­
gram during the current year was 
discussed by Tech officials and 
plans were initiated for the up-
coming summer institute as a work in the county schools in the 
prelude to offering college level I fall.
You Can Become A*Star
If You Can Sing, Dance, Recite Poetry, or 
Have Any Talent You Can Perform At the
International Cafe In Shadyside
(Formerly Cappochinos Coffe House)
Every Wednesday night the Vusser Record and Theatrical Co., is sponsoring these performances. They will record some of the leading singing groups on their label with the possibility 
of your record being distributed throughout the country. The Vasser Theatrical Co. will have some of New York’s leading theatrical agents in for some of the Wednesday night shows.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL
HI 1-0184 or EM 1-0750larry Russo Shoe Repair
420 S. Craig at Forbes 
MU. 2-8459
i2­b i2y.bIu RA6 S5bA.y.vu 
t^62b­«b1yV Y­^:
Ym cVT wsfa BV hslaBh ba 'Tia hV shhaBv hwa 
'wVu' afaic uavBa'vsc BYFwh
ORDER BLANK FOR THE 
33 Vb rpm ORIGINAL CAST RECORDING OFDo )6u Think ñrYburseff?•optliej&cfes
(PUT THIS QUIZ IN YOUR THINK-TANK AND SEE WHAT DEVELOPS*)
Name
Address
I hereby enclose
EW DSA YO, to write the advertising for a small car, would you say, 
(A) “Hard to get into? Man, you don’t get into it at all—you put it 
on!” Or, (B) “You can park it on a dime—in fact, with most meters 
you can park two on a dime.” Or, (C) “Gives you more miles to the 
gailon because the gauge is set for Imperial gallons.”
MS1 8 960 frying pan, 
would your advertising say, 
(A) “Cooks pancakes in no 
time flat!” Or, (B) “Made 
of a new metal that dis­
tributes the heat evenly all 
over.” Or, (C) “Folks, it’s 
made by us folks who love 
t’ make folksy fryin’ pans 
fer good ol’ folksy fried 
mush.”
Thinking men and women know Viceroy 
does the job of smoothing the smoke 
without killing the taste—gives you a 
scientific filter design for the smooth taste 
a smoking man wants. Yes, Viceroy is the 
thinking man’s choice. Viceroy Filters ... 
has a smoking man’s taste. Find it out 
for yourself. Try Viceroy!
*lf you have picked (B) in these questions — 
you think for yourself!
Th 8isf1al'f a filter cig­
arette, would you tell cus­
tomers, (A) “Pay no 
attention to the filter, it’s 
the strong taste that counts 
—and it sure is strong!” 
Or, (B) “Make up your own 
mind about what you want 
in a filter cigarette—then 
choose the brand that gives 
it to you.” Or, (C) “That 
weak, thin taste you get 
tells you our cigarette has 
a tight, wadded-up filter.”
SMOKE
Anachronism?
Not really. ’Cause if Coke had been 
around in Caesar’s day, Caesar would 
have treated himself to the sparkling 
good taste, the welcome lift of Coke! 
Caesar’s motto—“I came, I saw, I 
conquered.” Pretty good motto for 
Coke too—the prime favorite in over 
100 countries today!
YOU’RE SELLING a trip 
around the world. Would 
you say in your ads, (A) 
“Get into orbit, man!” Or, 
(B) “See people who look 
as crazy to you as you do 
to them.” Or, (C) “Go now 
— Pop will pay later.”
packor
crush*
proofbox.
BE REALLY REFRESHED 
Bottled under outhorify of The Coco-Colo Company by
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
•7*2 Central Av*. W I**'®11
THE MAN WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELF USUALLY CHOOSES VICEROY
A Thinking Man’s Choice—Viceroy Filters
... HAS A SMOKING MAN’S TASTE!
•lNO.ftvvntVlllaaHnTMiMwOM,,
9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TAREYTON RING mm marks the realthin
II inn a n Thought 
Simulated at GSIA
revolution. Mr. McCrearr asks 
where the job-directed middle 
managers will turn for the ful­
fillment they had found in their 
work and from where will the 
new “industrial elite” draw its 
members? What training will the 
new managers need?
The answers are being prepared 
in the country's graduate business 
schools, practically unheard of 
twenty years ago, he says. “The 
most sophisticated and important 
work is at Carnegie Institute’s 
eleven-year-old Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration. 
Working with RAND Corporation, 
the high-powered Air Force Re­
search company, Associate Dean 
Herbert Simon and a handful of 
colleagues are developing a com­
puter that simulates human 
thought.
“To do so, he and his group first 
determine how people solve prob­
lems, by having human subjects 
work at symbolic logic problems in 
the “heuristic” way a high school 
boy solves geometry theorems 
(i.e., by testing likely looking lines 
of reason, discarding obviously
weak ones, remembering parts of 
other theorems that might apply, 
and by juggling these around to 
construct a correct answer).
“In due time his computer,
which already plays a mean game 
of chess, will be able to make sig­
nificant management decisions,
and learn how to make them bet­
ter as it gets more practice, says 
Simon.”
Awaiting yowi AwiivalResearch that stimulates human 
thought on a computer at Carne­
gie Tech’s Graduate School of In­
dustrial Administration is sym­
bolic of the drastic changes in 
American industry that portend a 
social revolution in the next thirty 
years.
Writing in the current (April) 
issue of “Esquire,” Edward A. 
McCrearv describes the Carnegie 
program as “the most sophisti- 
cat - and important work” being 
accomplished in the natic-i’s grad­
uate business schools in preparing 
the business leaders of the next i 
generation. ' i
In his article, “The New Indus­
trial Elite,” Mr. McCreary writes I 
of j trend away from recent de- | 
centralization, amalgamation, and! 
“permissive” management theor-1 
ies. “Top management is taking 
over the reins they let loose in j 
the 1940’s and 1950’s. They are j 
doing it by making lower echelon ! 
jobs more cut and dried and by I 
instituting new headquarters staff 
groups to keep an eye on more 
difficult operations.”
The “eye,” in the modern world, 
often turns out to be an electronic 
computer which is doing to “mid- 
rile-management” what “scientific 
management” did to the workers 
—break down their jobs into rou­
tine repetitive activities demand­
ing little imagination and involv- j 
ing no important decisions.
In this study. Mr. McCreary 
confirms the general trends of . 
business administration and the 
high evaluation placed on the 
long-range research at Carnegie 
Tech by the recent Ford Founda- j 
tion and Carnegie Corporation! 
studies of business education.
“Two articulate proponents of . 
this trend, H. J. Leavitt of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, j 
and Thomas Whisler of the Uni­
versity of Chicago, hold that in i 
the future, as top management ; 
takes over more of the planning 
and innovating of projects for di­
visions, the staff programmers, re­
search analysts and over-all co­
ordinators through which it does 
so will rise up the ladder, and 
most middle managers will move 
dovm in relative pay and prestige.”
Stating that this change will , 
mean nothing less than a social
Clean, comfortable and reasonable accommodations for male students, clubs, teams, administrators and groups in the heart of midtown New York, close to all transportation and nearby Empire State Build­ing. All conveniences, cafeteria, coffee shop, tailor, laundry, barber shop, TV room, tours, etc. Booklet C. 
Rates: Single Rooms $2.40-$2.60; Double Rooms $3.40-$3.80
WILLIAM SLOANE HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
356 West 34th St, New York, N. Y. Oxford 5-5133 (nr.lPenn Sta.)
If You Can Sing, Dance, Recite Poetry, or 
Have Anv Talent You Can Perform At the
—the antithesis NoDoz® could save your life, 
of perspicacity. Right? Worth knowing? Right!
Too often, driving a car is like reading a textbook. It can make you ' 
drowsy no matter how much sleep you get. But safe NoDoz fights this 
kind of “hypnosis.” Safe NoDoz aleYts you with w
caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in 
coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming 
NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
So to keep perspicacious while you drive, ^ j "V 
study, and work—keep NoDoz handy.
Tlx safe stay awake tablet — available everywhere Another fine product of Grove Laboratories».
km52.62Ae 0rDDp8poM,58 05tt6 w5n86y
Every Wednesday night the Vusser Record and Theatrical Co., is sponsoring these performances. They will record some of the leading singing groups on their label with the possibility of your record being distributed throughout the country. The Vasser Theatrical Co. will have some of New York’s leading 
theatrical agents in for some of the Wednesday night shows.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL
HI 1-0184 or EM 1-0750
IF YOU wsfa BV hslaBh ba 'Tia hV shhaBv hwa 
SHOWS afaic uavBa'vsc BYFwh
Honor
[coitftrnu’d from page 2] 
dustrial Administration. Dr. Modi­
gliani was among 116 Fellows and 
es Foreign Honorary Members 
elected to the Acamedv. Founded 
in 1780. The American Academy 
of Arts and Sciences numbers 
among its members creative art­
ists and “men of affairs" as well 
as representatives of the many 
scientific and other intellectual 
disciplines.
A native of Rome, Dr. Modi­
gliani was a member of the Fac­
ulty of Jurisprudence at the Uni­
versity of Rome from 1935-39. 
He received his Doctor in Juris­
prudence degree there in 1939. He 
also holds a Doctorate in Social 
Sciences from the New School for 
Social Research .n New York, 
granted in 1944.
In 1948. Dr. Modigliani moved 
from faculty positions with the 
New School for Social Research 
to become Political Economy Fel­
low at the University of Chicago. 
In 1949 he joined the University 
of Illinois as Research Associate 
Professor of Economics, Bureau of 
Economic and Business Research. 
He was later named full Profes­
sor.
Dr Modigliani is a prolific 
author of books and articles on 
economics. He is the author, with 
Professors Holt and Simon of Car­
negie Tech’s Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration, of 
“Planning Production, Inventories, 
and Work Force” to be published 
this year by Prentice-Hall.
He is a member of the Council 
of the Econometrica Society and 
a Fellow of the Society since 1948, 
and a member of the American 
Economic Association.
DUAL FILTER
HERE’S HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES IT:
1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL ... 
definitely proved to make the smoke of a cigarette mild and smooth...
2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance the 
flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton's flavor-balance gives you 
the best taste of the best tobaccos.
Filters 
for flavor 
as no single 
filter can
NEW DUAL FILTER
u out middle name © * r «%»Product of
r*ge * — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. May 18. m*
