BASKETBALL
W. & J. j
WEDNESDAY GYM!
------------------------------------------------------
GAMBOL OF THE 
GUILDS 
FRIDAY $2.03 |
VOL. XXII NO. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928 ^
SCOTCH QUINT LOSE 
TO MOUNTAINEERS 
BY THREE POINTS
FEW REMAINING DIRECTORIES 
TO HAVE FINAL SALE FRIDAY
Leading Five Points at the 
Half, Tartans Fall Under 
West Virginia Onslaught
PLAY CLOSING GAME 
WITH W.-J. TOMORROW
Have Final Chance of Season to 
Annex Victory; W.-J. Favorite
Student Directories will again make 
their appearance on the campus this 
week. The Tri-Publications -Staff 
w’isjies to dispose of these as soon as 
possible so that work may be started 
on the Student Handbook. Every stu­
dent who does not have a Directory 
at the present time is urged to lend 
his support to the sale and buy one. 
This is the last time that the books 
will be for sale this year.
A complete canvass of the men’s and 
women’s dorms will be made by 
salesmen of the staff. Salesmen will 
also be in the corridor's of the various 
colleges on Tuesday, at 11:30 and 
1:30. This sale lasts only until Fri­
day of this week so everybody dig 
and buy at least one book for the 
price of 5.0 cents.
Co-ed Knights Gather Forces to Combat
Off.cial Disapproval of Lady Nicotine
Carnegie Glee Club 
Takes Second Honors 
In Intercollegiate
Students look at one and another, 
shake their, heads, sigh, mumble j 
something under their breath about 
defeats, and then :stumble on. It is j 
hard for students to accept defeats, I 
even though the quint is doing its 
darndest.
Skibo followers Had high hopes for . ----------------
the West Virginia game; the unfor- penn gtate Awarded Silver tunate Scotch quint had victory claw- 
ing at its kilts, and it lo'oked like the 
much sought for opportunity to give 
that cursed jinx the works. The Tar­
tans jumped away to a flying' start | J_________
in the first 10 minutes of the game I , , ,,
and the Mountaineers were stunned, I „ 1,1 “• Mf*0* ann“al Intercollegiate 
when they saw these weak, meak Glef Club contest held last Friday 
Scotchmen actually toying with them, j "'Sht 111 the Carnegie Music Hall, 
They were actually amazed when J Pennsylvania State College was 
Harpster and Crum enabled the Plaid | awarded the prize cup for the Penn- 
to forge to the front with a comfor-1 ¡»ylvania championship with a. grade 
table «ght-point lead. | ot 80-8- Honorable mention was giv-en to the Carnegie Glee Club with a
Cup; To Compete in Final 
Meet in New York
When, the mid whistle sounded the | 
Tartans led 22-17. Everyone was con­
fident, everyone was happy, the band
grade of 74.6.
I The first group of selections 011 theiiueiiL, everyone was nappy, uie uanu 1 . . ,, . , , j c program consisted of the variouswaxed musical, and, wonder of won- ,7__ „ 1 choice songs by each competing club.ders, the cheer leaders even led a1 T . . , , Vl ,,, „ , TT I Juniata s selection was Good Night,couple of cheers. However, someone „ . , T n *. , r , ,, . . I Carnegie sang Finnish Lullaby, ’must have fed the Mountaineers _, , ii- *v. 1 ir Bucknell, Annie Laurie? Allegheny,hokus powder during the half, fori„.t _ ’ , ¦ „ _ * /’they came back, raring to go, and * atl.er s Door, and Penn State
soon swept the desperately fighting I The Long Day Closes. The second 
Tartans from their feet. Field Mis sr°up cons,s ofDthe o',1«
dropped and bounced through; team sonsJ, 7'le, ?r0.ken Melodv' l)yplay, trick and difficult sh9ts all ap-1 StbeIlus- Each ='«•> save its interpre- 
peared successful (for W. Va.) and ! tatlon 0 the composition. The college 
eight minutes later Glenn brought the 1 SC!"ES theS1 f‘>lln"'ei|. Juniata singing 
score to a deadlock with a dazzling' ‘Thl! Medley,' Carnegie, “Dear Old 
shot from mid floor. I *e°b. Penn State-,1- The Blue and
The close of the battle drew nearer I White,” Bucknell, “Dear Bucknell/’ 
and nearer; everyone was on his or ¦ an(l Allegheny, To Allegheny. These 
her feet, screaming- with excitement. I numbers concluded the competitive 
The Skibos cast away all their inher- j singing, and the judges retired to 
ent Scotch caution and fought as they ma^e their decision. The three judges
never fought before to bring the con­
test to a standstill. But try as they 
might, West Virginia was not to be 
denied and the final gun saw the Tar­
tans defeated for the twelfth time. 
Tartans Star.
were Messrs Ernest Lunt, Will 
Earhart and J. Fred Lissfelt.
While the judges were' in consulta­
tion Miss Esther Edmundson, sopra­
no, sang three solos, “Ah, Love But a 
Day,” “Sioux Serenade,’’ and “Twi-
White played as he never played . light and Lovelight,” which were well
received by the audience. Following 
this Mr. R. W. Grant, president of the 
Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Musical 
Council, gave a. brief description of 
the history of Intercollegiate Glee
before, guarding, fighting, always do­
ing his best. Diminutive High seemed 
every place, fighting the towering 
Mountaineers for the ball, and sink­
ing a number of beautiful shots, some
of which brought the spectators to. j Club competitions, showing that in 
their feet in admiration. Harpster ; keeping with its purpose, the move- 
lived up. to-the standard he set in the |- (Continued on Page Six)
Pitt game, coming through with glory.! ~j.-------------------------
Crum was in the fighting until fouls • nrpmo Qfltiipntc tn PIvp pulled him out. What can be said ! >5111061118 10 ulVC
about the players? They all play a 
heart rending, spectacular game 
but it never seems to get them any­
where. Defeats or no defeats, they!
Series of One Act Plays
deserve admiration for the way they 
go in night after night- fighting to the 
last second.
Comment on the Pitt massacre' is 
rather useless; it. simply gave the 
(Continued on Page Six)
THISTLE PHOTOS READY; 
ANNUAL GOES TO PRESS
All the photography for the Thistle 
is now completed. Any -organization
which has .failed to get -its pictures J-.bert and Sullivan Light Operas; is the
The Little Theater offers a pleas­
ing variety to its public in the form 
of five one-act plays to be given on 
the nights of March 2 to 10. The 
dramatic ability of the Art School 
students will be fully represented by 
these engaging performances.
The first play, "Square Pegs” is a 
charming interlude written by Clif­
ford Box. It is a whimsical dialogue 
in ' which Margaret Werts and 
Florence Wakefield take the parts. 
E. Martin Browne is directing the 
play.
N. S. Gilbert, composer of the Gil-
taken will have to be contented with­
out it for no more sittings for this 
year’s book will be made.
The organization staff is having dif­
ficulty in getting writeups from the 
various organizations concerned. The 
writeups must be in this week so that.; 
the makeup of the Thistle will not be 
delayed. Will the various heads of 
the respective organizations who have 
been approached by a member of the 
organization staff please submit their 
writeups to the person concerned? 
This co-operation will be greatly ap­
preciated. The writeups that have 
been thus far submitted have a great 
deal of originality and will greatly 
help in producing an attractive This­
tle.
The sales of Thistles have been fair. 
The sales staff is planning a sales 
campaign in the next 'two weeks in or­
der to clean up the final sales. The 
book is almost ready for the printer. 
Before the book goes to the press it 
is essential that a set figure be made 
as to the number to be printed. No 
excessive amount of books will he 
printed as was done in previous years. 
In order to obtain an order for a 
Thistle, you may get it Wednesday, 
11:30 to 1:30 in the corridors of all 
tlie schools.
The Carnegie C§ed is beseiging the 
castle of the ogre, Taboo, to rescue 
the fair damsel, Lady Nicotine, from 
the shackles of Regulations and Offi­
cial Disapproval.
Due to the scarcity of horses and 
armour, the Coeds are using modern 
methods to bring smoking out into 
the open. Ever since the adoption or 
the Regulation against women smok­
ing on 1 the campus, it is said, by 
force, there has been an undercurrent 
of agitation (for permission to smoke 
on the campus. The murmurs of the 
dissatisfied have been heard, and will 
continue to be heard until something 
has been done to settle the question 
definitely.
Smoking by a majority of the 
women students of Carnegie is an 
established fact, whether or not it is 
recognized. Honor system or no 
honor system, there is smoking under 
cover in the dormitories, near the 
campus, and in Schenley Park. Prac­
tically everybody knows that there is 
considerable smoking and that the 
•ise of tobacco is increasing, propor­
tional to the increase in the use of 
tobacco by women universially.
It seems practically useless for 
casual observers to depreciate the use 
of tobacco, from the standpoint of J 
physical and mental health, and 
moral, with a view to stopping the 
j habit. It is obvious that girls of above 
| average intelligence, with a full un- 
I derstanding of the benefits and evils 
of the tobacco habit, cannot be turned 
: from their path by the worn-out argu- 
; meivts which have failed to keep their 
j brothers from the use of tobacco. Con- 
] damnation of the use of tobacco by 
women on the grounds. that they are 
women is unfair and carries no 
j weight.
j So it seems that tire Fair Coed will 
rescue Lady Nicotine from the harem 
| of Taboo, without much blood shed, 
i She will bring her out into the glor- 
: ioiis sunshine, either with the avowed 
| approval or scant tolerance of the 
: reigning powers. They will live hap- 
J pily ever after, or .perhaps Fair Coed 
will some day»cast off Lady Nicotine 
: as she has forsaken corsets, Ostrich 
I plumes, Slave bracelets, etc., etc., and 
! ride off again to win—what next?
BERT STOCK’S BAND WILL 
PLAY FOR GREEK FORMAL
TEA DANCE TO BE GIVEN 
TODAY BY SENIOR GIRLS
Well Known Orchestra Boasts of 'RalPh Kruck's Tartans to Play;
Large Repertoire of Stunts 
and Songs
Bert Stock's Band, of nation-wide 
fame in collegiate circles, has been 
chosen for tills year’s Inter-Fraternity 
Formal, the committee has announced 
this week. Plenty of life and pep has 
been insured for the occasion by the 
signing up of this orchestra. Bert 
Stock has just returned from Ohio 
State where his group of music mak­
ers entertained at the Soph Hop. So 
well did the band take on the Ohio 
State campus that they have been 
scheduled to return for the spring 
formal there.
The band boasts of a large reper­
toire, stunts, comic sketches, and 
song and dance artists, along with 
one of the best harmony rendering, or­
chestras in the country.
This “Gathering of Greeks” prom­
ises to be one of the most brilliant, 
glittering affairs in the history of the 
Interfraternity Formal at Carnegie. 
Arrangements have been made to 
serve supper continuously from 10:30 
to 1:00. The dancers can eat when 
they desire, while nothing can inter­
fere with the music for those that 
would rather dance than eat.
The Tartan wishes to set aright the 
statement made in the last issue con­
cerning the date of the Interfraternily 
Formal. The correct date is March 
IG.
Plans For Senior Ball Are 
Near Completion
BISHOP MANN TO SPEAK
AT CHAPEL SERVICE TODAY
Chapel will be held today in the 
Little Theater at 11:30. Professor 
Dennison is to preside in the absence 
of Dr. «Baker. The speaker for the 
meeting will be Bishop Alexander 
Mann, liqad of the Pittsburgh Diocese. 
Bishop Mann is certain to have some­
thing interesting and instructive to 
present., Ralph Crawford will be the 
organist and Lucille Hough is to be 
the soloist. Both of these students 
are sophomores in the Music Depart­
ment.
The attendance at the new hour of 
11:30 on Tuesdays has been much bet­
ter than former attendance. It is 
hoped that the good attendance will 
continue and increase in the future.
ANNUAL CARNEGIE 
GAMBOL OF GUILDS 
IN UNION ON FRIDAY
Collegiate Imps, Jazz Band 
Extraordinary, to Feature 
Industries College Dance
COMMITTEE ARRANGES 
ELABORATE PROGRAM
: Decorations, Refreshments, Favors 
Will Add to Crowd’s Pleasure
Major General Gibbs 
To Address R. 0. T. C. 
Friday, March Second
Chief of United States Army 
Signal Corps to Inspect 
Carnegie Unit
New Magazine Adds Bunker 
To Staff As Eng. Editor
Today from'4:30 till G:00, a tea 
dance will be given in the Union by 
the Senior Ball Committee. Several 
delightful features are planned and 
excellent music is assured, since 
Ralph Kruck's Tartans have beon 
chosen to furnish the strains for the 
dancers.
This is the second tea dance which 
(he committees in charge of tho Senior 
Ball have sponsored. The first one 
which occurred several weeks ago 
was. such a success both socially and 
financially that the senior women 
were encouraged to stage another 
s^cl) event.
Tlie usual fee of 25 cents will bo 
charged for admittance to the tea 
dance today. The proceeds of the 
dance will be devoted to making tho 
Women’s Senior Ball more elaborate 
and unusual than had originally been 
planned.
The Ball this year is to be given in 
the beautiful ballroom of the William 
Penn Hotel on March 9. For many 
weeks various committees have boon 
evolving plans and making careful 
preparations for this great event. Tho 
orchestra, Peck Mill’s, is one of the 
most popular in the vicinity;, tho 
favors are said by the commitees to 
be so lovely that the recipients will 
be glad to keep them not only for 
memory’s sake but for their* intrinsic 
beauty as well; the dance programs 
are strikingly original and dainty. 
In short, all tlie preparations for the 
-Senior Ball are of such a kind as to 
be certain to please the most fastidi­
ous critic and the most sophisticated 
dance-goer.
author of ‘‘Comedy and Tragedy” the 
second of the series of plays. The 
play is a typical example of the old- 
fashiqned, florid, one-act costume 
play. It is directed by Hensie 
Browne. The cast includes Irene 
Tedrow, Mathilda Bodycombe, Don 
Wilson, Frank Sullivan, and. others.
Sidney Giffen, an Arts School. stu­
dent, is the author of “Three Hun­
dred Dollars.” It is a modern play, 
including in its cast Ruth Aston, Wal­
ter Rogers, Josephine Copas, and 
Irene Meermans. It is also directed 
by Hensie Browne.
"Checkmate,” by Maxine Finster- 
wald is also of student authorship. It 
is a charming play of modern setting. 
The author is also the director. The 
cast is comprised of Irma Weinberg, 
Florence' Wakefield, and Anna 
Boesim.
The editor of “Punch,” A. P. Hei- 
bert, is the author of “Two Gentle­
men of Soho,” which promises to be 
an intensely interesting satire. It is 
written in blank verse. The direct­
ing of the play is in the hands of 
Chester Wallace, Margaret Werts, 
Elizabeth McFadden, Irene Meer­
mans, Newton Cowan, Joseph Woods, 
, Don Wilson, Henry Woolley and 
i Thomas Fisher.
The first issue of the “Carnegie 
Quarterly,’’ new literary magazine, 
will be published sometime in April, 
and anyone desiring to contribute 
should have their material in the 
hands of the editor-in-chief, Walter 
Rogers, by the last of March. Mr. 
Rogers can be reached at the Beta 
Theta Pi fraternity, 5549 Forbes 
street.
The new literary magazine is in­
tended to appeal to all types of stu­
dents, and all types of material are 
solicited, book reviews* short stories, 
technical articles, poetry, play criti­
cisms, and plays.
Henry T. Bunker, Jr.. a membbr of 
Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, 
has been appointed associate editor 
from the College of Engineering. 
Bunker is a Sophomore Mechanical, 
a Tartan reporter, and a member of 
the Tri-Publications Staff. The asso- 
ciate editorship from Industries 
is the only major position 
which has not yet been filled. An­
nouncement has been made in pre­
vious issues of the Tartan of two of 
the associate editors, Harold Jacob­
son from the College of Fine Arts and 
Margaret Russell from Margaret Mor­
rison.
The next meeting of the staff will 
probably be held Wednesday at 4:30 
in the Arts building. Walter Rogers 
is very anxious to get the first Issue 
started as soon as possible. No further 
action will be taken until Student 
Council has formally accepted the new 
magazine as a Carnegie publication. 
The matter will be brought up tonight 
at the regular meeting of the Student 
Council. “Carnegie Quarterly” sta­
tionery has been printed and corre­
spondence will begin at once.
THETA TAU SMOKER VEID 
AT BUR. OF MINES THURS.
Theta Tau, national professional en­
gineering fraternity, held a smoker 
at the Bureau of Mines last Thursday 
evening, February 23. About forty of 
the prominent members of the sopho­
mores and juniors of the College of 
Engineering were present as guests. 
The entertainment consisted of the 
I most recent film production of the 
j Bureau of Mines on the Petroleum 
Industry. Talks were given by Cap­
tain Edward Steidle, of the Mining 
I and Metallurgical Department; Mr. A. 
C. Sluss, of the Westinghouse Elec­
tric Company; Mr. Thomas Griggs, 
graduate engineer of C. I. T.; the well 
known and popular A1 Minetti; and 
Professor Daniels, of the Civil En­
gineering! Department. All are mem­
bers of the Fraternity. A1 Minetti 
entertained with several original 
stunts and sketches. Refreshments 
consisting of ice cream and cake were 
served later in the evening.
I The spring call of Theta Tau will 
be made at the first assembly in 
March, to be held on March G. 
SCARAB TAKES IN TWELVE
MEN AT ANNUAL INITIATION
Major General George Sabon Gibbs 
will speak to the Carnegie R. O. T. 
C. unit on Friday morning, March 2 
at 11:30 in Room 104 Industries 
Building. Major Gibbs is stationed in 
Washington, D. C., as chief of tho 
Signals Corps Unit of the Army and 
is at present making a tour of inspec­
tion of all colleges in the country at 
which R. O. T. C. Signal Corps organ­
izations have beqn established.
General Gibbs has only recently 
been appointed as the Chief of the 
Army Signals Corps, although he hold 
a similar position in the A. E. F. dur­
ing tlie World War. Ho is a graduate 
of the Univrsity of Iowa at which 
school he received two degrees, one 
in 1897 and ono in 1901. Ho lias won 
the Distinguished Service Modal and 
hafc received a War Department Cita­
tion. One of General Gibb’s outstand­
ing ,feats in his field was that of the 
laying of the. gable from Seattle, 
Washington, to Alaska.
Gonoral Gibbs will stop at Carnegie 
on his way back to Washington from 
making similar inspections at M. T. 
T., Cornell, and Ohio. State Nnlvor- 
sity. This is tho first time Carnogio 
has ovor beon honored by a visit by 
the Chief of tho Army Signal Corps, 
all previous inspoctions having boon 
dologatod to other officers. Carnegie’;} 
R. O. T. C. is anxious to make the 
best possible showing when the Gen- 
ora! comes.
In tho vory near future tho men 
who are going to R. O. T. C. Camp 
this summer will receive their physi­
cal examinations and injections 
against typhoid and smallpox.
Last year the Carnegie Engineering 
unit, which gCK.s to Camp Humphreys 
in Virginia won the honor of Best 
Platoon for the camp period. Athlet­
ics was the only department in which 
tlie Carnegie men were defeated but 
(Countinued on Page Four.)
SUCCESS0F PROM LAST 
FRIDAY PLEASES JUNIORS
The Carnegie Chapter of Scarab, 
National Professional Architectural 
Fraternity» held their annual Initia­
tion last week at two meetings. The 
“mock” initiation was held Thursday 
night and the formal Initiation took 
j place Saturday night at the Ruskin 
Apartments, followed by a banquet in 
honor of the affair.
I The following men were admitted 
[ to membership: T. Pratt, A. Sidells, 
I J. Schmidt, R. Woods, H. Hunter, T. 
Zenk, D. Wilson, J. Barr, A. Neff, K. 
| Heidriok, J. Lytel and E. Covert.
The Women’s Prom held Friday 
night in the University Club Ballroom 
added another successful event to the 
1928 list of social functions. Always 
the highlight of Junior affairs in both 
men’s and women's schools, this ball, 
Friday night, proved to be even more 
than usually delightful; and the com­
mittee in charge deserves much 
credit for their efforts in staging the 
affair so attractively. The music for 
the occasion was provided by- Bob Mc­
Gowan’s Popular Dance Orchestra.
The favors of the evening, an had 
been promised, were for the men 
guests. They were hand-tooled leath­
er folders designed to take.care of the 
excess “papers of importance” a man 
always carries in his breast coat 
pocket. Bearing the seal of Women’s 
Prom 1928, they will always be very 
useful, as well as reminders of a suc­
cessful evening.
Dinner following the Grand March 
led by Betty Marshall, president of 
the Junior class in Margaret Morri­
son, was served in the club dining 
room at 12 o’clock.
DR. BAKER CABLES DATE OF 
LECTURES TO PRESS BUREAU
Witli final plans completed, every­
thing is in readiness for the annual 
Gambol of the Guilds, to. be held in 
the Union Friday, March 2, from nine 
till one. The Gambol of the Guilds 
is the long awaited event in which the 
men of Industries play , host to all the 
men and women of Carnegie! In addi­
tion to having .the Collegiate In^pa 
playing for the dancing, the committee 
expects to delight a large crowd with 
unusual decorations, unique .. favors., 
and really refreshing refreshments.
The Collegiate Imps, as- everyone 
knows, were, founded on th$ Carnegie 
campus, and contain some • of the 
finest band artists and soloists of the 
district. With a varied program of 
songs, stories, arid stunts, they win 
furnish enjoyable entertainment in ad­
dition to their excel 1 oht, dlifnce. orcli'eS- 
tralions. As the Imps are -sy-UH-known 
and appreciated on. tho campus, it ia 
expected that many will iittend to 
again dance to. their music.
The decorations, which aro being 
handled under tho direction of RuhkoJ 
C. Broscious, a Junior in Building 
Construction, are expected to prove 
one of tho highlights of an eventful 
evening. The details of tho decora­
tions have been hold hack, but, is an 
assured fact that the, beauty,, novelty, 
hud color appeal have never boon 
oquallod by any previous Gambol of 
the Guilds, and It Is said; will rival 
the decorations of Carnegie’s. (amoun 
Campus Week and Arts Ball.
Tho program will bo of a line quality 
in keeping with tho luxury and spler»- 
dor of tho decorations and will carry 
out the tliomo which tho Gaml>oI or the 
Guilds suggests, a‘ souVenir, symbolic 
of the fine craftsmanship and design 
which marked the products <if tho 
Medieval Guilds whoso standards, ami 
tradition tho College of Industrie« 
seems to uphold.
The refreshments sometimes over­
looked by an inefficient committee, 
aro In the capable hands of G. V. I.)wir, 
a Junior in the Department of Print­
ing and Publishing. Ho promise« 
that the refreshments will make as 
good an improssion on the crowd as 
will the other features of tho ovonlng. 
The assured satisfactory handling of 
this important detail will go far to 
make a success of,.the, dance.
The committee wishes to make clcur 
the fact that everyone connected .with 
Carnegie is welcome and invited to 
attend and assures that those attend­
ing will bo well repaid. The daacofc 
will not end until 1:00 a. m.r giving 
everyone a chance for a long night of 
pleasure. The assessment will be $2.’ 
a couple entitling the holder to.aiU 
that may be desired in the .way of en­
joyment.
The committee in charge of the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Word has beon received from 
abroad concerning the safe arrival of 
Dr. Baker In Paris.
In a cablegram to Mr. Clark in the 
Press Bureau, Dr. Baker listed the 
dates of his lectures to be given at 
the Carnegie Foundation in Paris. 
The lectures will be given March 10, 
12, 13, 14 on the subjects, "America,” 
“Tlie Land of Realism,” “The Ameri­
can Mind,” “Mechanization and Stand­
ardization,” and “The Voice of the 
People.”
Dean Green Represents 
Carnegie At Convention
After being present briefly at the 
Women’s Junior Prom last Friday 
evening, Dean Green left for1 thq fif­
teenth regular meeting of the National 
Association of Deans of Wopen, 
which is convening at the. Hotel Cop- 
ley-Plaza, in conjunction with the Na­
tional Education Association.
Miss Green spent last Saturday at 
Columbia University, leaving for Bos­
ton on Sunday morning; where she 
took up her duties as a membw of 
the nomination committee. The 
committee is working on the problem 
of the “manner of Nomination and 
Election of Officers in 1928.”
Yesterday’s program consisted of a 
meeting of the Executive Committee r 
a joint session with the National 
Committee of Bureaus of Occupations, 
Personal Research Federation, and 
National Association of College Ap­
pointment Secretaries; registration; 
a business session; tea at 'Simmons 
College in the afternoon; and from 
8:30 to 10:00 p. m. a discussion meet­
ing for members only. Today’s' pro­
gram includes sectional meetings; a. 
general session at Agassy Nouse,, 
Radcllffe College; and this evening, a. 
reception and formal dinner.
The business of the convention will' 
be completed on Thursday evening of.' 
this week. Dean Green will return to^ 
Carnegie in time to resume her duties 
here on next Monday, March 5„

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928
j CLAN DIRECTORY j
NOTE: The Clun Directory »riven below is 
Incomplete, and In some BASBKE possibly incor- 
reel.. It, has been compiled, however, from tho 
Intent avullilblo data. Any correction» or ad- 
dltlonH iihould l*e Bent In Immediately to tho 
Alumni Office.
TLW.&JjDN
President, G. S. Dlulil', Bollonn Avenue. Secretary and Treniiuror, P. II. Dickey, 1318 
Continental Building.BOSTON
Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 76 Went Street, 
Braintree, Mubb.
BUFFALOPrcBldent, Robert Porter, 1 :»0 Iloyt Street. 
Secretary and Treasurer, Herbert L. Mocrah- 
felder, .'14 Kotchum Place.
CANTON
President, Frank J. Taylor, 518 Alta Placc, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio.Vice PrcHidOnt, -Henry L. Borgor, 015 Green 
Street, JYIasalllon, Ohio.Secretary, Wllmer H. Tucker, 1280.% Cleve­
land Avenue, N. W.Treasurer, George A. Martin, 315 Ninth 
Street, N. E.
CHICAGO
Chnlrmnn. 0. .1. Conley. »33 Wrfljoy BulldlnK. Finance Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chalr- 
man ; Vic StromcjuiBt, John HarkneBB. 
Program Committee, John Nation, Chairman;
Harvey Hiller, Mrs. II. W. YG&M-SO
Momborshlp Committee, O. B. Schmidt, Chair­
man: Mrs. John HarkneBB, Iliad Wheeler. 
Publicity, F. W. Cook.All coirununlcatlon» Bhould be addressed to 
C. J. Copley.
CINCINNATI 
President, G. C. Smith, Chemical Department, 
University of Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND 
President, A. C. May. PeerleBB Automatic 
Machine Company. _ .Vice President, R. H. Humbert, 1840 Last 
101st Street. ... ,Secretary, E. P. Batcham, 1080 Union IruBt
I Treasurer^ L. C. LuBtcnborger, 1840 East 10lBt 
Street.
CLEVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN 
President, Katherine Kerr, 1038 EaBt 116th
Vlce^Frcsldonl, Alice NelBon KoppeB, 1070 
East 82nd Street. 'Secretary and TreaBurer, Catherine Allan, 622 
East 124 th Street.
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
Presldont, N. J. Engle, 266 South High St. 
Vice President, Florence II. Lutz, 01 South 
Market Street, Lo«an, Ohio.
Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Paloma, De­partment of Romance Languages, Ohio 
Stale Universltv.
CONNECTICUT 
Preflident, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Sterling 
Street', Hartford.Vice President. William Gooby, 10 MadlBon 
Street, New Britain.Secretary and Treasurer, Samuel I1 laxmnn, 
92'Vice-Street,-Hurtford.
DAYTON, OHIO 
Presblent), F. W. Heckert, 341 Kcnllworib 
Avenue.
DETROIT
President, W. Ray William»«, enro WeBtlng- 
house Electric & Manufacturing Company. 
1686 Sixth Street.Secretary and Treasurer, C. L. Boyle, .1000 
Balfour Road.ERIE
President, Ray Keller, care ITnmmcrmill 
Paper Company. ,Secretary and Treasurer, R. C. Warren, cure 
The Warren Company.
GOLDEN GATE 
PreBldent, G. M. Whlsler, 1778 FBjKj Street,
Secretary^nnd Treasurer, Mrs. It. L. Wharton, 
Box 147, Route 1, Richmond, Calif. 
HARRISBURG 
President, John G. Todd, 20 >/j North Queen 
Street, Lancaster.Vice President, Henry Y. Shuub, 20J/j North 
Queen Streot, Lancaster.Secretary, Prank Highberger, care State Do- 
partmunt of Public Instruction, Harrisburg. 
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.
Secretary. J. F. DeYoung, BOB Second Streot, 
East.JOHNSTOWN 
Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
KOPPER8, PITTSBURGH 
President, I). J. McFarlln, care Koppers Con­struction Company, Union Trust Building. 
Vice PreBldent, H. II. Hook.
Secretary, W. II, Neely.Treasurer, A. G. Wagne»1, toicotliOr with J. (». 
Rice, 0. B. Collins, 11. 13. Warren, composing 
u Hoard of Governors.
MONONGAHELA. VALLEY 
PwiUdent, .Conrad A. Slone, Box 801, Char­
leroi, Pa.Vlee President, Mrs. Alice Nixon Conn. car« 
Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth and Dock Streets, Stleultenvllle, Ohio.
Secretary and Treasurer, A. B. Lowiitutl'or 
Look No. A. Ph.
MILWAUKEE 
President, A. II. '1’oHtoson, 737 Fortieth Street. 
Seorol.ary and Treasurer, N. I.. Dlttmer, 510 
Second Avenuo, Wainvatoso.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kltalf, 4600 
Avenue M, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Publlclly Manager, I1'. 1. Smith, care II. L. 
Doherty Company, III* Wall Street. 
NORFOLK
President, T. I). Fltxglbbon, 811 Holt Streot. 
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
' President, C. W. Gibbs, , caro InjwrBoll-Rand 
Company, 11 Broadway, New York City. 
Vice President, E. W. Van Der Wolk, 73 Grove 
Street, Montclair, N. J.Treasurer, F. Iv. Zelglor, 205 Union Avcmio, 
Belleville, N\ J.
Secretary, .T. F. Smnncy, 211 Locust Street, 
., Roselle Park, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
, PreBldent, M. D. Scott, 515 Katbmore Road 
Brookline, Upjwr Darhy, Pa.
• Secrelary and Treasurer, T. S. Reppllor, caro
EdwardB, Ewing & Jones, North American 
Building, Philadelphia.'¦ Chairman Entertainment and Membership 
Committee, L. E. Exline, 1520 Real Estate 
Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH
President, G. Albert Wagner, care The Kop- 
I>era Company.
Vice President, L. H. Lee, 206 Stanwlx Street.
. Secretnry-TrenBurer, Buddy Overend, Carnegie 
Tech.
SCHENECTADY 
. President ,J. M. Sampson, 45 Bedford Street. 
Vice President, J. L. Knight, caro General 
Electric Company.
Secretary and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 206 
Union Streot.ST. LOUIS
Acting Secretary, M. A. Zollar, care of Ham­
ilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street. 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
President, John F. Meredith, 6007 West Fifth 
Streot, HjS Angeles.
Vice President, Robert Flnkelhor, 200 North Oakhurst Drive, Beverly Hills.
Secretary, Betty Flnkelhor. 200 North Onk- 
hurst Drive, Beverly IIIIls.
• Executive Committee, James 11. Knapp, 244
North Wotherly Drive, Beverly Hills.
G. R. Brandln, 002 Transportation Building, 
Los Angelos.
TUI^SA
President, II. G. Texter, caro Standard Soam- 
b-ss Tube Company, 710 Mid Contlnont! 
Building.
Vice President, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 South 
Quaker Avenue.Secretary and Treasurer, II. W. Ponternmn, 
002 Mayo Building.WASHINGTON, I). C.
President, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Streot, 
N. W.
Vice President, Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street’, 
N. W.Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 
Lexington Place, N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
President, It. A. Bookmeyer, 1515 Elm Street. 
Vico President', Fred C. Beedo, 1324 Hillman 
Streot.'Secretary and Treasurer, George Iv. O'Connor, 
¦ ‘52 Now York Avenue.
C. H. Murray Seeks to Help College
Graduate in Selecting His Career
The following 1K an article written j personnel remains practically the 
by Mr. C. IT. Murray who Is Super-1 same.
vinor of Employment for the American : 5. What 1S the breadth of It« mark-
R oiling Mill Company, Middletown, et? A company whose market is wide 
. j in 8C9P0 Is naturally wide in the op-
Simplifylng the Selection of a Career Pjirtunities which it can give the Ill- 
Positive results are being accom-! dividual members of its organization 
plished in helping the college gradu- an(1 offers an outlet for the function­
ate find.the work he is best fitted to ln& of manY different forma of effort,
do. A following out of certain spe^ G- ls the Product diversified? A
eiflc considerations will materially aid business whose distribution depends 
tlie young man who, after four years upon the economic situation of one 
of intensive training such as is now particular group is likely to offer 
offered in the major schools of tlie unstable and interrupted employment 
country, faces life’s work. Thtf terms to the members of its group.
"career" and "life's work” are used 1 7- How iH t,ie. company generally
advisedly because in most cases the regarded by its own personnel, com-
college graduate has fairly well de* Petitors, and persons in other line of
elded what lie wishes to do. After work? The method of getting the 
this his major problem is the selection answer to this question and the con- 
of the particular organization in elusions to be drawn from the answers 
which he is to give his energies play. are obvious.
On the other hand, there arc a large ’ s- What is its financial standing? 
number of young men who have little Anyone has access to the balance 
ideas of the line of work in which .sheets 0f the larger industrial con- 
they can be most effective, and here eerns. It is well to study these closely 
again the choosing of a company in in order to be sure of identifying one-
* * * *
NOTICE
Owing to a recent but not ser- *
* ious illness of the alumni editor, ?!* 
-V Herbert Grau, the volume of * 
v news is necessarily reduced. We *
* sincerely hope, however, to have ?
* him back with us for the next
* issue of the Tartan. *
-V ? *i* *5* *(' *i*
which they may properly “find” them­
selves is most important.
A few years ago, except in isolated 
cases, there was apparently no scien­
tific method in any young man’s mind 
as to how such a problem could be ap­
proached. As a result, the man, as 
well as industry, lost a great deal of 
time in getting to the place where a I 
proper contribution could be made 
and rewarded. With the recent 
growth of an increasingly close rela­
tionship between educational institu­
tions and industry, however, the pro­
gram begins to take definite shape; 
and it is our belief that in later years j
self with a going concern.
9. Study the general appearance 
and layout of plants and offices. Just 
as the dress and carriage of an indi­
vidual show something of his per­
sonal habits, so does the outward ap­
pearance of an industrial organization 
reflect its methods of management.
Have other men'made progress? 
j Are there many young men in ex­
ecutive positions?
What is the policy of promotion?
Are there many organization 
changes made?
What are the facilities for train­
ing?
What outside activities does thethe average student will attack this . 
problem of choosing tlie company with ! UIR$J a”y sponsor ? which he wishes to become affiliated w,lat are the opportunities for in- 
in much the same manner as he at- {ve«tment in the company? 
tacks any laboratory test; first setting I As mentioned previously, tlie above 
up bis, problem, then getting together ! co,';lkleratlons 1,ave l™'P°seI3' been 
nil facts necessary In its solution, and , “‘M.ÎIIÎÎÎÎ.4?®1‘L"!"
finally tying them together and arriv- ...........
ing at a logical conclusion.
Technical skill of every class must 
be employed in successfully carrying
ly 011 local conditions and must be 
met and handled individually.
The important thing Is the recogni­
tion of the fact that these factors rep­
resent a very vital part of a young 
man’s entry into the business world 
and that a closer study of the prob­
lem along scientific lines is becoming 
1, greater necessity from day to day, 
We feel that it is well for the college 
graduate to know that personnel de­
partments of companies throughout 
the country are as anxious to see 
proper placement made as are the 
men themselves and that in most 
cases whole-hearted co-operation , can 
be gained from this source in working 
out such a plan as has been set forth 
here.
The above mentioned factors seem
Salem, Ore.—(IP)—The period from 
Feb. 4 to IS has been set aside as an 
¦“open season" for the co-eds at Wil- 
liamette college to exercise their 
rights under the Leap Year season. 
The action was officially taken by the 
students.
number of companies in various lines 
of endeavor. There are undoubtedly, 
other individual considerations which 
a man must consider before allying 
out the varied programs of the larger ! j1,mse!f v'*th one particular organiza-
industries as they function today; and ; i0"’ bu,t th,ese wl 1 tlepGnrt very larK°'_ ! nr nil Innol nmi/lif mnn n.wl w-» nr.* 1-. r\m them are found positions of major 
responsibility which should be attrac­
tive to the college man. It is thus 
that men trained in any of the engin­
eering fields, as well as in other lines, 
find full play for their efforts and I 
ideas in a single organization, and it ' 
is not uncommon to see the mechani-1 
cal, civil, electrical, chemical, mining 
and metallurgical engineer; the 
trained salesman, accountant, public­
ity man, and social service worker 
carrying out under the saine roof im­
portant phases of a large company’s 
undertakings.
Assuming, again, that by specializ­
ing in his college work and supple­
menting this technical training by 
practical experience during the vaca­
tion periods, a man has prepared 
himself for a specific line of work, lie 
is lead to the place where the prob­
lems of what particular company Is 
beat adapted to the elïectivo outlet of 
his capabilities is paramount. There 
are hundreds of well mawaged indus­
trial organizations established in this 
country today and tho "measuring 
stick” which we are presenting Is suf­
ficiently elastic to apply to any.
First, there1 are certain obvious con­
siderations such as realizing that the 
problem cannot bo worked out over­
night and that often a few years of 
actual observation on a job or various 
jobs may be necessary before a de­
cision can be arrived at; that of dodg­
ing the soft spots which may prove 
to be "dead ends,” a disregard for 
initial monetary return when balanced 
against experience and future possi­
bilities; and a number of other fac­
tors which are important, but with 
which we are not concerned here. It 
is the specific consideration in which 
we are now most interested. Experi­
ence has shown that those set forth 
below' should be most carefully re­
garded :
1. What is the character of the 
personnel and management of the 
company? The personnel and man­
agement of an organization must be 
studied together as the two are so 
closely related that one cannot be 
effective without the other. A far- 
visioned and understanding manage­
ment is sure to build up a contented 
and "producing" personnel and if any 
of these factors is lacking the com­
pany is not one in which the ambitious 
technically trained man can effective­
ly cash in on his ability.
2. Is it a basic industry; i. e., one. 
of the fundamental industries on 
which other lines of work depend?
This is Important to insure the steadi­
est growth of a man’s career. There 
are many non-basle industries' which 
are successful and operate with little 
Interruption, yet thoro is surety that 
a basic Industry will carry out these 
factors to a greater degree.
S. How big Is It? Although a rise 
to tho top Is usually easier In a small 
organization than it is in a large one, 
because of the fact that competition 
is less keen, the ultimate gain will 
not nearly approach that which is in 
reach of men in the larger organiza­
tion.
4. What has been its history in ex­
pansion and labor relations—has it 
been a follower or a leader? It is 
comparatively easy to study the his­
tory of our larger organizations, and 
it is important, because as an organi­
zation has functioned in the past, so 
will it function in the future, provid­
ed, of course, that its management and
INDIANAPOLIS 
ALUMNI TO HAVE 
CLAN THERE SOON
We have just received news that the 
alumni of Indianapolis, Indiana, are 
attempting to start a clan in that city. 
It will be a great thing for Carnegie 
alumni in and around Indianapolis. 
All alumni in this district who would 
be interested in joining this Indian­
apolis clan should write to Mr. P. J. 
Unzicker so that alumni in that city 
may know how many others wish to 
affiliate witli them in the organization 
of an Indianapolis clan. The follow­
ing is a letter received from Indian­
apolis:
THE WHITE COMPANY 
839-95 Massachusetts Avenue 
* Indianapolis
February 17, 1928.
Dear Buddy:
We had a very enjoyable radio party 
at our home on the 14th, and are all 
looking forward to another. The 
cT’owjd was all enthusiastic and wants 
to organize a clan. All but three of 
the alumni in this city were present.
Those who attended were Mr. Ray­
mond F. Crom, I. ’13, and wife; Mrs. 
Charlotte Miller Dopke. M. ’19, and 
husband; Mr. Thomas Hains, E. '26; 
Mr. Norman F. Six, A. ’26; Mr. and 
Mrs. Warren P. Thayes, I. ’24, and 
Arts associate respectively; Joe 
Clirisoff, Mr. White. I. ’24, and wife, 
and Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Omzicker, E. 
’22 and M. ’23.
, As ever,
P. J. UNZICKER.
NOTICE! ' ALL CLANS!
Although we have been asking • 
for letters from the clans con- • 
cerning radio night for the last • 
two weeks, we have received • 
only three or four letters. There • 
have been many individual let- * 
ters sent to the school and to the • 
radio stations, but the clans have • 
not responded in the proper man- • 
ner. «
All those who have written say * 
that they enjoyed the program *
¦ and want us to have another Car- •
¦ negie radio hour. This will de- • 
- pend entirely upon the way the • 
’ first program was appreciated. •
¦ Write commenting on the pro- • 
• gram and tell us and the other •
¦ clans what kind of a radio party
¦ you had.
j CLAN NEWS j
NORTH JERSEY CLAN
Alumni Issue of Puppet 
Is Very Interesting
to make up a very compficated pro- 
gram for the college man to carry out, 
and is it true that considerable effort 
will have to be expended in order to 
arrive at a successful conclusion. 
Yet the plan is far from being un­
workable, especially if the man begins 
its study early in his college career. 
We believe, further, that the time is 
not far distant when the necessity of 
such a program will be so universally 
recognized that courses in vocational 
guidance will be a regular part of our 
college curricula.
This discussion of the college gradu- 
ite’s relation to industry is an import­
ant, but nevertheless only one sin­
gle phase of the whole subject. There 
are certain preparatory steps neces­
sary as well as a great many things 
to be done after he lias been placed 
on the job, but these factors could not 
be discussed in detail except in a verv 
complete volume.
The first 1928 Issue of the Puppet 
has appeared, and has been designat­
ed as the alumni number. The issue 
promises to be 'as popular as the 
alumni number of last year.
Of course, the important features 
about the issue is the fact that prac­
tically all contributions are from the 
alumni. In this way the best talent 
of many years has been combined into 
one grand and glorious issue. All 
kinds of cuts, jokes, sketches and 
what not are collected from the lead­
ing ex-puppeteers, who have contri­
buted especially for this number.
The Puppet Hall of Fame, which 
has been called upon for this number, 
includes such men as Hardie Albright, 
whose drawings and sketches graced 
the Puppet in very recent years; Ted 
Repplier, a former editor; Larry 
Stults, who has made a success of his 
drawing abilities in the commercial 
world; Eddie Conse, Williard Perkins, 
Herb Olsen, Bob Schmertz, and oth­
ers. The cover is one of the attrac­
tive features, and has been made with 
special care by Earl Gross, whose 
ability has been attested by past per­
formance.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Gibbs en­
tertained the clan at their home in 
Westfield on Tuesday evening, Febru­
ary 14. Cards were played during the 
evening and the “Carnegie Hour” 
came in clear and distinct on the 
radio.
Those present were: Frank Cupid 
Young, Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. 
Blesch, Myron F. Barrett and wife, 
Fred I. Smith, E. M. Johnston, Fred M. 
Hall, L. Fenn Vogt, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. 
Ziegler, Mr. Smullen and wife, George 
L. Burgess, Walder B. Ashworth and 
John F. Smaney. Many more had 
planned to come but the fog and ter­
rific rain storm proved too much for 
them.
ERIE CLAN
MINING SENIORS MAKE
THREE INSPECTION TRIPS
The seniors in Mining Engineering 
have made three inspection trips this 
month. On the tenth, the class in­
spected t)he manufacturing plant of 
the Mines Safety Appliance Company 
in Pittsburgh. On the seventeenth 
the electrical section of the United 
States Bureau of Mines was visited. 
Experiments were conducted on gas 
detecting equipment and permissible 
electrical equipment and appliances 
for use in gasy coal mines. The twen­
ty-fourth of the month the group in­
spected the explosive section of the 
United States Bureau of Mines at
Some few weeks before we received 
notice of the Carnegie radio night we 
planned a party to be held at the 
Cameo restaurant. These plans were 
complete and arrangements made 
when we received the notice, conse: 
quently'we were unable to have a’ 
group meeting on> that night.
I had our "Flying Squadron” at the 
house on the 14th, however, for a con­
fab and later to hear the program 
from Carnegie. The “Flying Squad­
ron,” as we nicknamed it, was organ­
ized from the most active members of 
the clan. This group of eight men 
was formed with tlie idea of each of 
these men making personal calls on 
seven or eight members of the clan 
to create interest in our parties and 
meetings. We spent an enjoyable 
evening and the whole gang sends 
their heartiest congratulations for the 
splendid program.
Just a word more about the party 
we had at the Cameo on the 16th inst. 
The Cameo is run on cabaret style 
and during the dinner ,we had music 
and dancing until 7:30; 8:00 to 10:00 
we played bridge. The successful 
players at. the end of this time were 
given some very attractive prizes. The 
balance of the evening was spent 
dancing. We had a jolly crowd of 
twenty-three couples and Ray and my­
self feel sure that everyone enjoyed 
the party.
I want to take this opportunity to 
thank you for the list you sent me. 
It added a few names we did not have, 
however, it lacked about twenty men 
and women that we had on our list. 
We are having the list checked over 
by the post office, so as to be sure 
that we have the correct addresses.
Bruceton, ,Pa. There they witnessed 
several demonstrations on the permis­
sible explosives for use in coal mines, 
and numerous physical tests such as 
relative propulsive and disruptive ef­
fects of high explosives.
MI IB,
/ YET THEY SATISFY
*> E STATE it as our hon­
est belief that the tobaccos 
used in Chesterfield ciga­
rettes are of finer quality 
and hence of better taste 
than in any other cigarette 
at the price.
F2B0N.. 3 |VNKX CjSLBBj UjO
UKNX.ND,&NWP
CIGARETTES

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREfc
Forties Mattonai Batik
FIFTH AND OAKLAND
The Bagpipe
Mary Watson Green, Dean of Wo­
men: “I am not in sympathy with
women and college women smoking. 
The adolescent girl is passing 
through a state where smoking is a 
detriment to the health, organically.
“Smoking is not constructive. It 
is, being done because it is vogue, and 
college women must, make sacrifices 
in spite of the vogue, because they 
are to go out as leaders of women.”
Simon Feigenbaum, Sophomore in 
Mechanical Engineering: “I think
women should be allowed to smoke 
all they please. In fact it should be 
encouraged and then it v/ould un­
doubtedly die a natural death. Rules 
and regulations will not do any good, 
because nobody will pay any atten­
tion to them, anyway. I never could 
see why smoking was al1 right for 
men and not for women. If a law 
were made to prevent men smoking 
there would probably be an earth­
quake or something equally disas­
trous.”
Edith Harper, Junior in the Library 
Course:' “Girls smoke chiefly for the 
effect they think it gives. The idea 
of smoking soon becomes a habit 
with some girls. Sometimes a girl 
smokes when she is with a crowd just 
to show off, while if she wras alone 
she would not think of smoking. In 
some peoples’ minds the character of 
the girl who smokes is lowered. I 
think that it does not help the health 
of the girl. There is a sort of hard 
look about a girl who smokes.”
Edward F. Knable, Senior in elec­
trical Engineering: “The question of
women smoking rests entirely with 
the woman. This being a free country 
there is no reason why the women 
ought not to be allowed to smoke if 
they choose to do so. If they want 
to make a habit of it, let them go to 
it; but as I see it, most women 
smoke to make people take notice of 
them.”
Dr. William R. Marks, School 
Physician: “Smoking is no harder
on women than it is on men, but it 
doesn’t do anybody any good. Its 
harm is from the nicotine which has 
a deleterious effect on the heart if 
indulged to excess. It also has a 
rather retarding effect on the stomach 
to a certain degree. It keeps the 
membranes of the nose and throat in 
an inflamed condition. It also effects 
the nervous system.
“Personally I have never "gotten to 
seeing women smoking, but they have 
the same right as men. The school 
should discourage smoking for boys 
as well as girls. There should not 
be smoking rooms for girls because 
that would encourage it.”
• ~ Dr. Max-Schoen, Head of the 
Psychology Department: "It is not
so much a question of should or Should 
not, hut a matter of fact that they do 
smoke. Furthermore, if men are en­
titled to smoke even granted that it 
is harmful, there is no reason why 
women should not have the same, 
privilege. However, since the wo­
men of this institution have voted 
that they should not smoke on the 
campus, they should adhere to the 
whole regulations/
“Whether the regulations are fol­
lowed or not is quite a different prob­
lem.”
R. B., Junior in Margaret Morrison: 
“As long as there is overt smoking 
on the campus, and in various spots 
in the adjoining Schenley Park, there 
can be little consistency in continuing 
to insist that the regulation, that 
smoking be frowned upon on the cam­
pus, exists. The attitude of most of- 
the girls on the campus is tolerant 
toward the so-called “evil” whether 
they indulge or not. To some girls, 
the joyous incentive ^.offered by doing 
something forbidden promotes smok­
ing in places they would not ordi­
narily smoke in, and continue to 
make a farce of the existing campus 
law. Should smoking be effectively 
prohibited, it would be well; but the 
idea of only partial enforcement 
makes light of the inefficient police- 
manship of those enforcing the regula- 
. tion. For my part, let smoking be
Public Lectures On 
Photography To Be 
Given This Week
THE COLLEGIATE IMPS
Dr. Charles Mees of Eastman 
Kodak Company Will 
Speak on Campus
Three public lectures in the Union, 
the first1 tomorrow evening, February
29, and the second and third on Tliurs- 
! day and Friday ev.emngs, March 1 and i 
j 2, at 8:30 in Room 2lS of the Science j 
j building will be given by Dr. Charles I 
j E. K. Mees, director of research of j 
, the Eastman Kodak Company, Roches- 
| ter, N. Y. The subjects of these lec- 
j tures, which have special appeal to 
scientists anti photographers, together-' 
j with those who are allied with the 
j photographic industry in any way,
I are: Wednesday, “The Production of 
la Photographic Image;” Thursday,
I “The Photographic Process;” Friday, 
j “Photographic Production of Tone.”
J The three lectures have as their gen- 
! eral subject, “Theory and Technique 
I of Photography.”
| Dr. Mees is a native of England, 
where he attended Harrogate College, 
St. Dunstan’s College and the Univer- 
I sity of London, the latter from which 
he received the D. S'c. degree in 1906.
; During his six years of service as 
| managing director of Wratten and 
Wainwright, Ltd., in England, he es­
tablished a reputation as one of the 
foremost authorities in England on 
theories and technique of photography. 
He came to America in 1912 to'accept, 
an offer as director of the research 
laboratories of the Eastman Kodak 
Company, and he has remained in 
that capacity since. For his contri­
butions to the scientific development 
of photdgrapliy, he received an hon­
orary D. Sc. degree from the Univer­
sity of Rochester in 1921.
Putt and Siebert Act For 
Carnegie At Conference
GLEE CLUB WINS PRAISE 
ON RECENT CONCERT TRIP
The Carnegie Glee Club returned j 
last week from a trip to Erie, Pa., and | 
Westfield, N. Y., where, they pre­
sented several concerts. The Glee i 
j Club Avas well received in both cities 
and much praise was given to the 
j club for its fine program in each city, 
j The Glee Club left last Monday morn- 
I ing at 9:30 and traveled by bus. After 
| several blowouts and a rather serious 
j accident, causing some delay, they ar- 
! rived in Erie at 6 o’clock. AIL the 
men were tired from their long trip, I 
I but even so, they sang up to their 
I usual high standard. They .stayed •in 
¡ Erie Monday night, and left for West­
field the next day at noon. The men 
arrived at Westfield safely and hero 
they gave a very fine concert. The 
i citizens of Westfield gave the Glee 
j Club a very warm reception and were 
j well pleased with the fine program 
they presented. The club was under 
the capable direction of Student Di­
rector Walter J. Poyntz. The esuccess 
of this trip was due largely to the 
efforts of the manager, Wilbur A. 
Scott, who worked very hard in ar­
ranging it. The soloists of the trip 
were Joseph Browne Patterson and 
Paul Brautigam. William McDermott 
also gave a chalk talk. The programs 
presented in both cities were:
(a) Song of Fellowship.................Gaul
(b) Zut, Zut, Zut.........................Elgar
Glee Club.
Violin solos—
(a) Frasquita .......................Kreisler
(b) La Gitana .....................Kreisler
Joseph Brown Patterson.
(a) Thou Art Repose...........Schubert
(b- Finnish Lullaby ............Palmgren
On Wednesday, Thursday, and Fri­
day of last week,. the Annual Con-, 
vention of the Mid West Student. 
Conference of Colleges and Universi­
ties was held at Boulder, Colorado to 
discuss the perplexing problems of 
student government. Carnegie was 
represented by its Student Council 
President, Donald L. Putt and its 
Vice President, Mark L. Siebert.
This annual conference, although 
yet young, having had its beginning 
in 1921, is rapidly becoming an affair 
of national prominence. Contrary to 
the inference made in its title, that 
it consists only of Mid West Students, 
a survey of its representatives re­
veals some fr~m far-way Florida and 
Pennsylvania.
With such capable representatives 
as Putt and Siebert the name of 
Carnegie is assured of its rightful 
place among the other colleges of 
America.
(c) The Broken M^loday......Sibelius
Glee Club.
Three Pictures ...................Rubinstein
(a) Send Out Thy Light.............Gaul
(b) Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones
............................:.......................Greig
Glee Club.
Baritone solo—Sleep River..Burleigh 
Paul Brautigam.
(a) Mirage .....................................Gaul
(b) Norsemen .......................-....Greig
Glee Club.
Specialty .............................Chalk Talk
THISTLE BUSINESS STAFF
TO HOLD MEETING FRIDAY
All the salesmen and saleswomen 
of the Thistle are requested to attend 
an important meeting to be held in 
the Publications office, Industries 
room 12, at 12:30 sharp Friday. Be 
prepared to give a full report concern­
ing the number of books sold so as 
to have a set number as to notify the 
printer. Complete reports should be 
given concerning the amount of ad­
vertisements solicited. This meeting 
is very important and all concerned 
are requested to attend.
At this meeting arrangements and 
plans as well' as the policy to be fol­
lowed in the next sales will be dis­
cussed. A different policy will be fol­
lowed this year than has been fol­
lowed in previous years. In order to 
accomplish this with the greatest suc­
cess, co-operation on the part of the 
sales staff will be greatly appreciated. 
All concerned are requested to co-op­
erate as well as attend this meeting.
William McDermott.
(a) Dear Old Tech................Cameron
(b) Alma Mater .....................O’Brien
Glee Club.
ANNUAL CARNEGIE
GAMBOL OF GUILDS
IN UNION ON FRIDAY
(Continued From Page One) 
Gambol are Merrill D. Burnside, cliair- 
| man; J. M.'S’eibert, treasurer; George 
Davis, publicity; Russ Broscious, dec- 
j orations; and G. V. Durr, refresh­
ments.
According to recent figures given 
out in Chicago by the Electric Asso­
ciation, that city uses *1.9 per cent of 
the nation’s telephones and the Haw­
thorne Works of tho Western Electric 
Company, located there, produce SQ 
percent of the world’s telephones. The 
output of this factory reaches more 
I than 90,000 desk stands and 250,000 
transmitters and receivers a month.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES
ll A. M. 8 P. Ml
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Schenley 1125
Standard Cleaning- 
Dyeing Co., Inc.
Standard Service Satisfies.
FEBRUARY SPECIAL 
Men’s Suits Cleaned and 
Pressed, $1 
EXPERTS ON LADIES' 
GARMENTS 
Office and Cleaning Plant:
702 REBECCA AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Branch Office 
4525 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
Air Pockets j
At the next meeting of the Aviation 
Club of Carnegie Tech to be held 
Tuesday, February 28, Lieutenant 
Robert E. Dake will give a lebture on 
aviation. Mr. Dake is very, well 
equipped to speak on this subject and 
the meeting should lie a very interest­
ing one. This meeting will be held 
in Room 304, Industries Building and 
the officers of the club will ,be-glad 
to have any one attend who is. in-, 
terested in any phase of aviation.
There has apparently been some 
doubt as to whether co-eds can be­
come members of this club. The 
president states that there is abso­
lutely nothing in the constitution ot 
the organization prohibiting them 
from becoming members. Therefore 
they are cordially welcome.
For its age the Aviation Club of 
Carnegie Tech is becoming quite 
active. Last week a radio program 
was arranged and successfully car­
ried out by the organization over 
station WCAE. Although all of 
the talent used was not from the club 
it was arranged ..entirely by this or­
ganization.
The next meeting of tlie Aviation 
Club will be an open affair. Non- 
members as well as members, men 
students and co-eds are urged to at­
tend.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
OAKLAND’S 
RESTAURANT 
—for— 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
DASCHBACH’S
3808-10 Forbes Street
consistenly recognized as existent, 
j and let those who do not wish to in­
dulge, refrain.”
B. R., Junior in Margaret Morrison: 
“We are allowed to smoke at home, 
so why can’t we smoke at school? .
I think we ought to have a smoking 
room at school, instead of going to 
the park and tea rooms.”
oe graduates will share mrjuture profits
m^xecutive Positions
JUST what the future holds for you toill depend largely on the 
seeds you sow during the first few years after your college days 
are over. Some men will follow the easy path, the line of least 
resistance. They will select the soft snap jobs, the kind that pay 
fairly well now but hold no future. Others will be willing to 
begin at the bottom and work their way to the top. These are 
the men who will be tomorrow’s leaders in every field of endeavor.
If you are of this energetic type the Kresge Company offers you 
a future rich in opportunity. We will train you to manage one 
of our stores. You will be started on the lowest rung of the ladder. 
You will be gradually advanced until you are thoroughly trained 
in every phase of store management. Then you will be given a 
store managership and a share of the profits.
Write to our Personnel Department today and we will arrange 
an interview with a graduate of your own college who has already 
found success in the Kresge organization.
R. B. KING
While I was attending High School 
and College, I openc my spare time 
working In grocery nnd clothing 
stores. Upon completion of my 
college coursc at Illinois Wesleyan 
University In 1915, I was very 
anxious to connect with a mercan­
tile establishment offering chance* 
for advancement.
Through a friend I learned some­
thing of the plan of the Kresge 
Company and was Introduced to 
tho local Kresge manager. I was 
soon sold on the Idea and began 
work in a Kresge stockroom. Here, 
my education was continued In a 
very practical way and advance- 
mcnt has come as fast as 1 Imvo 
been able to assume larger re­
sponsibilities.
I have not had a minute’s regret, 
although my parents and friends 
were rather Inclined to think I had 
made a mistake, they could not see 
why 1 wanted to stare at a low 
salary and apparently throw away 
the Immediate benefit I might have 
gained from my college course.
However, my efforts have been 
amply repaid and I feel that any 
man who gives his best efforts to 
the Kresge Company will not be 
disappointed. With the company 
growing as It has and with its fina 
executive personnel it will un­
doubtedly continue to grow, thus 
cnlurging the opportunities. Only 
a man's ability will limit hie 
advancement.
R. D. KINO
“Your Home Bank”
I Capital, $300,000.00 Surplus, $300,000.00j Student Accounts Welcome—No Service Charge
| R. K Mellon, President W. S. Phillips, Cashier 
Thomas IT. McCandless, Assistant Cashier
S S KRESGE CO
5-10-25c. STORES ' ' - 25c. to $1.00 STORES 
KRESGE DETROIT BUILDING

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928
(
VISIONS
PROGRESS P 
SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER /
FEWRMAINIGD is a profession with groat promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many- 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
KAUFMANN 9S
FIFTH AVENUEPITTSBURGH
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Men'll, if 
desired or merely Calces, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes — Pastries—Ice Creams— 
Ices—Bread and Candies ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone orders—no charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.OYCË
cJlVßiemeiißß<y
CATERERSSHADY AND PENN AVE-, PITTSBURGH
DIFFERENCE
| Wien you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent tlie best.
Quality, Pit and Stjde. All sizes.
Special rates to students
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-l\
CATERING
The Tartan announces with 
regret the death of James M. 
Badorf, a senior in Physics, who 
died on Sunday morning, Febru­
ary 26. Badorf, who was al­
ways known as “Jimmy,” is 
from Harrisburg, Pa., and had 
been a resident, of Scobell Hall.
Psychologists Show Relationship 
Between College Life and Success
Mr. Glen U. Cleeton of the Psy­
chology department and John D. 
Beatty, head of the Bureau of Recom­
mendations, both of Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, have formulated 
a paper in which they have predicted 
the acliievment of a student in college 
and after graduation. Both the psy­
chological and statistical sides of the 
question have been treated and from 
a group of ninety graduates from the 
Enginerlng classes of 1923-24 at the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
significant results have been made 
available.
The group wrom which the results 
were taken, were given psychological 
tests, judged by scholastic standing, 
participation in Scholastic activities, 
the importance of the position held by 
the graduate and the yearly salary of 
each graduate.
Correlation between scholarship 
and physics tests and scholarship and 
arithmetic tests are higher than the 
correlations of any other tests. The 
predicitive significance of the arith­
metic test was outstanding.
The results of the intelligence tests- 
were low in comparison to the general 
mental ability tests now used. Com­
plete scholarship records of the en­
gineering college graduate tends to 
represent the new scientific field -of 
specialized achievement. The cause 
of the remarkably low average on in- 
tlligence tests may be that the gen­
eral mental ability decreases as 
specialization progresses. Again this 
average may be due to the changing 
nature of the tests. While correla­
tions reported have been, in this in­
vestigation, the future hope lies in the 
fact that the test now in use in the 
institution show a relatively high 
initial correlation.
It is interesting to find that the 
paper revealed that the relationship 
between participation in activities and 
salary and between participation in 
activities and position rating are too 
low to be .considered significant. 
There is a varying differentiation be­
tween the relationship of participa­
tion in activities and the nature of 
activities pursued after graduation. 
Tile prediction, however, revealed 
that a low score in arithmetic test 
means that the chances are 2 to 1 that 
a man’s participation in activities 
would be above average..
The puestion Of predicting salaries 
was variable. Scholarship and activ­
ity when combined suggested only 
possibilities but the correlation is 
about l.G to 1 better than the
GREEK LETTER FORMAL 
BUDGET IS PASSED ON
for predicting salary above or below 
the average. It is significant that 
neither scholarship or activities can 
be considered separated and remain 
the basis of a salary prediction.
The ultimate result of ¦ combining 
scholarship and activities, scholar­
ship and salary or scholarship-activl- 
ties-position has a tendency to reduce 
correlations. This may be indicative 
that these combinations are carried 
along by the scholarship and test cor­
relations.
Mr. Beatty, one of the authors of 
the paper will deliver an address at 
the meeting of the National Associa­
tion of Appointment Secretaries, 
National Committee of Bureau Occu­
pations, Personnel Research Federa­
tion at Boston University, February 
28, 1928. Mr. Beatty will speak on 
the subject, “Study of Relations be­
tween College Scholastic Standing, 
College Activities, Position and 
Salaries of College Men after Gradua­
tion.” This is a statistical study of 
the college student similar to that 
written by Mr. Cleeton and Mr. 
Beatty but placing more emphasis on 
the exact statistical relationships of 
a student to his activities, scholar­
ship and position after graduation.
Interfraternity Council Recommends 
May 4-5 as Logical Campus 
Week Date
MAJ. GEN. GIBBS TO
ADDRESS R. O. T. C.
(Continued From Page One.) 
in military tactics and science the 
Carnegie Platoon was the victor.
This year about forty men will go 
to camp including about ten sopho­
mores. The Signal Corps Unit is 
stationed at Fort Monmouth, New 
Jersey and the Engineering at Fort 
Humphreys, Virginia. The men are 
at camp for a period of six weeks and 
receive instructions in demolitions, 
horseback-riding, bridge-building, 
riflery and many other branches of 
offensive and defensive warfare.
The main trouble with colleges to­
day is that the professors don't rec­
ognize ability and the students 
don’t possess it.—(Illinois Wesleyan, 
OCNA).
Every student who Is not entirely 
satisfied with the fineness, stiffness 
or ink fiow of his fountain pen should 
at earliest opportunity go to the 
Jenkins Arcade and have the Singer 
Penn & Gift Shop “fit” his hand, at 
moderate charge. Please say The 
Carnegie “Tartan.”
At the meeting of the Interfrater­
nity Council last Saturday in the “Y” 
club rooms many important subjects 
were discussed. Those which occu­
pied the greater part, of the meeting 
were the Interfraternity Formal 
budget, the distribution of the tickets, 
an Interfraternity dance, the housing 
of high school athletes during the In­
terscholastic meet, and a recommen­
dation for settling the date for campus 
week.
The big question nerore tlie council 
was the Interfraternity Formal. The 
budget for this formal is $1,747 and 
was satisfactorily passed on by the 
Student Council. There will be dis­
tributed 350 tickets at five dollars 
apiece. This will bring the net pro- j 
ceeds up to seventeen hundred and' 
fifty dollars. The surplus from this1 
function will be used for purposes 
designated by the Interfraternity 
Council.
The distribution of the tickets will 
be as follows: The number'of tickets 
will numerically equal to 60 per cent 
of the active members and 35 per 
cent of the pledges of each respective 
fraternity.
¦Sometime after the Easter holiday 
recess an Interfraternity dance will 
be held in the Union in place of the 
Student Council dance. This will give 
all the fraternity men a chance for 
acquiring better relationships between 
their respective fraternities. This is 
a step taken in the better relation­
ship movement direction inaugurated 
some few weeks ago by the Interfra­
ternity Council.
. Two sets of dates have been placed 
for the holding of Campus Week. 
They are May 4 and 5; also 11 and 
,12. On May 4 and 5 there will be 
held in Carnegie an Interscholastic 
Field Meet. The big question con­
fronting the fraternities on this date 
would be the housing of the high 
school athletes. In case campus week 
would be held at this time the hous­
ing of the athletes would be impossi­
ble. On the other date the Senior 
and Sub-Senior Architects are having 
a charette. The president and a sub­
president of campus week are archi­
tects and a situation of this type , 
would not pay full justice to this 
great event. The Interfraternity 
Council voted in favor of the 4th and 
5th will place the negative on the 
housing of high school athletes.
A question concerning the ques- 
tiohaire sent to the various fraterni­
ties about a rushing report; all delin­
quent fraternities are requested to 
send this questionaire in as soon as 
possible. This will Tiasten any further 
action to be taken concerning the 
rushing season question. The next 
meeting will be held on the Saturday 
following or March 10. All members 
are requested to attend this meeting 
in order to settle many important 
questions.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Tech Shoe Repairing
WE REPAIR RUBBERS 
For Better Service and 
Workmanship 
4523 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig
Music Notes
February 28—
The next program of piano con­
certos In the Historical Series now 
being given at Pittsburgh Musical In­
stitute Is scheduled for Tuesday eve­
ning, February 28, In the Institute re­
cital room. On this evening Henrietta 
Meyer Bodysombe will play Tchaikov­
sky’s Concerto in B flat minor with 
DallmeyCr Russell at the second 
piano; Marie G. Vierlieller will play 
Saint Saens’ ConceVto In C minor 
with Marian Clark Bollinger. This 
program provides an unusual oppor­
tunity to hear three popular modern 
concertos In one evening. No cards of 
admission are required and the public 
i.s Invited.
A recital will be given by the stu­
dents of the Carnegie Tech Depart­
ment of Music on Sunday evening, 
March 4, at 8:15 p. pi. The concert 
Is to be held In the Little Theatre of 
the Fine Arts College. An interest­
ing and varied program has been 
planned, as follows:
Bach—Prelude and Fugue in G major 
Brahms—Andante from Sonata in F 
minor
Mary Taylor.
Romberg—’Cello Concerto, No. 2 
Andante grazioso 
Allegro maestoso
Grace Bazell.
Wientiawski—Violin Concerto in D 
minor
Allegro moderato 
Romance
David Fislier.
Bizet — .Seguidille from “Carmen” 
Virginia Clovis. 
Chopin-Kreisler—Mazurka in A minor 
•Dvorak-ICreisler — Slavonic Dances, 
Nos. 1 and 2
Katherine Riclcert.
Chopin—Nocturne, Op. 9, No. 3 
Chopin—Polonaise, Op. 26, No. 2 
Marion Hall.
Bach—Concerto for two violins with 
piano and string accompaniment 
Vivace—Largo—Allegro 
William Sager and David Fisher, 
solo violins; Antoinette Reina, piano; 
John Brie tic, viola; Virginia Brook- 
liart, first, violin; Grace Bazell, ’cello; 
Madeline Ferguson, second violin; 
Harold Yeager, bass. Accompanists, 
Lucille Burrell, Charles Shotts.
March 2.
Next Friday night Zlatlco Balokovlc 
will bo presented in a concert at the 
Carnegie Music Hall at S:15. Mr. 
Balolcovic Is a violinist of great merit 
and will probably give a very line pro­
gram. He is a musician of strong 
feeling and flaming temperament. Won­
derful is the beauty of the real Slavic 
yearning of his utterly captivating 
cantilena, which he so artfully out­
lines and binds together. The artist's 
feeling for style is very marked, and 
everywhere is to be noticed a beauti­
ful, spiritual penetration.
Some call it mellowness . . .
8jJN say tliat Camel is the mellowest ciga­
rette ever made. Some that it’s mild and 
smooth. It’s really all good things in one, 
and that is why it is supreme upon the 
pinnacle of modern favor. Camel’s popu­
larity today is the largest that any cigarette 
ever had.
And, it costs somediing to make this kind 
of a smoke. It co6ts the choicest tobaccos
that money can buy, and a blending that 
spares neither time nor expense. Each 
Camel cigarette is as full of value as the 
world of tobacco can give.
You can be sure of smoking pleasure, 
serene and full, in these quality cigarettes. 
Smoke all of them you want; they simply 
never tire the taste.
‘'Have a Camel!” oim
Fancy Wool Hose
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the kind students like to wear.
75c—$1.00—$1.50 PER PAIR
AuEhammer & Evans
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan Square Established 1872
Carnegie Fellowship 
Announcements Made
“CONSTITUTION” SUBJECT 
IN ORATORICAL CONTEST
To be Conducted in Conjunc­
tion With Department of 
Mining and Metallurgy
The Department of Mining and Me­
tallurgy of Carnegie Tech, offers ten 
fellowships in mining and metallur­
gical research, In co-operation with 
tlie Pittsburgh Experiment Station of 
the United States Bureau of Mines 
and Advisory Boards representing 
these industries. Fellowships . arc 
open to the graduates of colleges, uni­
versities, and technical schools who 
are properly qualified to undertake re­
search investigations.
Each fellowship carries a stipend 
or $750, paid in ten monthly install­
ments. Fellowship holders are re­
quired to register as graduate stu­
dents and become candidates for the 
degree of Master of Science unless an 
equivalent degree has previously been 
earned. Fellows will not be required 
to pay registration fees. The pur­
pose of these fellowships Is the solu­
tions of problems which are of spe­
cial importance to the mining, metal­
lurgical'and allied industries. The 
fellowships begin August 13, 1928,
and close June 11, 1929.
The suggested subjects for investi­
gation are included under two heads, 
“Mining and Utilization' of Fuels,'* 
and “Ferrous Metallurgy.” Subjects 
included under the former are, 
“Origin and Constitution of Coal,” 
“Coal Mining,” “Utilization of Coal,” 
and “Mine Safety,” under the latter is 
the “Physical Chemistry of Steel 
Making.”
All applicants for appointment to re­
search fellowships should understand 
the following conditions governing the 
appointments:
(a),. Appointment to the position 
of research fellow is for a period of 
ten 'months beginning August 13, 
1928. A major portion of the time of 
the fellow may he devoted to assigned 
research in the Experiment 'Station of 
the Bureau of Mines.
(b) School vacations will not be 
observed.
(,<:) Any m,anuscrli)t presenting the 
results of research- shall- be published 
under the joint authorship of that 
member of the staff of the Bureau of 
Mines who directed the Investigation, 
as the principal author, and the re­
search fellow as the sub-author. Each 
manuscript will be published jointly 
by the Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy, the Bureau of Mines, and the Ad­
visory Boards.
(d) Fellows are not permitted to 
accept other employment for pay dur­
ing the ton months' period of their 
appointment.
Application blanks will bo furnished 
on request. Each applicant, will be 
required to supply a copy of his col­
legiate record from the registrar's of­
fice of bin college. Ho will also sub­
mit a photograph and names and ad­
dresses of at least three persons who 
sire familiar with his cluiractor, train­
ing and ability together with a state­
ment of Ills technical or practical ex­
perience. Applications are due not 
later than May 1, 1928.
Tho heads of different departments 
*>f 120 collogos and universities of the 
United States and Canada have been 
motlfloc! of the above fellowship re­
quirements. The fellowships are also 
open to graduates of» Carnegie Tech. 
Anyone wishing to apply for these 
should mako application as soon as 
possible.
»$5,000 is Offered to the Winners of 
National Finals in College 
Contest
With tho stipulation that entries be 
announced by March 15, the Better 
America Federation of California will 
sponsor the Fourm National Inter­
collegiate Oratorical contest on the 
Constitution. Rules governing the 
contest Include those that any under­
graduate student in any college or uni­
versity In the United States may be 
entered either as an individual or as 
a representative of the public speak­
ing department of the school in which 
he Is enrolled and that. subjects be 
chosen from any of these nine: “The 
Constitution;” “Washington and the 
Constitution;” “Hamilton and tho 
Constitution;” "Jefferson and the
Constitution;” “Marshall and the
Constitution;” "Franklin and the
Constitution;” "Madison and the Con­
stitution;” “Lincoln and the Constitu­
tion,” and "Webster and the Constitu­
tion.” The length of the speeches Is 
limited to 10 minutes.
Prizes offered total $5,000, to be dl- 
bided among participants in the na­
tional finals in Los Angeles on June 
21, In this .manner: First prize, .$1,- 
500; second prize, $1,000-; third prize, 
$750; fourth prize, $550; fifth prize, 
$450; sixth, $400, and seventh, $350.
For convenience in conducting the 
contest, the nation will be divided 
geographically into these major re­
gions: New England, Northern, East­
ern, Southern, Mid-Western and Pa­
cific. Colleges in each region, com­
pete by groups to select the regional 
finalists, who will compete In May to 
determine tlie national finalists to be 
sent to Los Angeles to the national 
contest the following month, June.
Further details may be procured 
from the Contest Headquarters, 1217 
National Press Building, Washington, 
D. C.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
the Regal representative to 
show you the $6.60 Regal 
Reproduction of London’s 
Lending Shoe Style selling 
on Regent Street nt 75 shil­
lings ($18.25).
An English Oxford made 
from Genuine Martin’s Im­
ported Scotch Grain, Full 
Leather Lined, $6.60.
$660RuhkoJHOuJ
Campus Representative 
The Men's Store of
Jageman & Splckert
6121 PENN AVENUE 
East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
!Se!Sr Srisoei frOn !sA ros cOt!feoi Seo Great Achievements 
OF SYRACUSE PROFESSOR PURCHASED BY INSTITUTE; jn pi£jd Pl Avjatjon
Feminine Viewpoint on Cigarette Question 
Suggests One’s Becoming “Accustomed”
Contrary, perhaps to the belief of Nineteen some of our students, that the reading j 
of the Tartan is limited to our own 
campus, a clipping from the Univer­
sity of Syracuse Paper presents evi­
dence that our editorials cause com­
ment outside of Pittsburgh.
"Syracuse, N. Y.—(IP)—The argu­
ments of the Carnegie Tartan recent­
ly in defense of cramming before ex­
aminations, were somewhat refuted 
recently by Dr. Ross A. Baker, head 
of the chemistry department at Syra­
cuse university.
"Cramming” he said, “is unethical.
No athlete would begin to train for 
football half an hour before the game, 
and mental training is on the same 
order.
“It is just as crooked for a student 
to cram his head with innumerable 
details at the last minute as it is ac­
tually to carry written information in­
to the examination room. What is 
hastily collected is usually of an un­
important nature and will crowd out 
the fundamental ideas gathered dur­
ing the whole semester.”
A person of ordinary intelligence, 
he said, cannot gain by studying madly 
an hour before the examination. It 
is all wrong, he thinks, to fill one’s 
mind with various new facts hopeless­
ly jumbled.
However, Dr. Baker, in his analogy, 
fails to consider that a person can 
be in fine mental trim as well an 
athlete in fine physical condition. Al­
though not out for boxing, Steva 
Hamas, in three days, trained well 
enough to win the intercollegiate box­
ing championship. Students do the 
same in weak courses.
About the morality or the situation, 
no teacher yet forbade cramming, al­
though perhaps some do not like it.
Several departments particularly those 
of physics and mechanics, allow books 
and notes in examinations. Cram­
ming apparently consists in learning 
some formulas and methods that can 
be gotten from a half-decent hand­
book.
Examinations schedules are made 
out so that students have time to 
cram. And cram or no, most of the 
knowledge gained is forgotten any­
way, so teachers tell us when they 
talk about good habit formation.
Acting on the belief that cramming 
only leads to confusion Dr. Baker said 
in the Syracuse Daily that the Chem­
istry Department proceeded to make 
out examinations for which cramming 
would be impossible.
We should like to see one of these 
peculiar examinations.
Paintings Have Now 
Been Added to Collection by 
Patrons’ Art Fund
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECOND HAND 
CLOTHES
1534 Central Avenue
Two new paintings, exhibited in the 
twenty-sixth international exhibition, 
have been purchased through the 
patrons’ art fund for the permanent 
collection of Carnegie Institute. The 
patrons’ art fund, established in 1922, 
has added 19 paintings to the Insti­
tute collection.
One of the paintings, “Vicomtesse 
Henri de Janze,” by the late Ambrose 
McEvoy, is a splendid example of this 
artist’s style. McEvoy, at the time 
of his death in January of last year, 
was regarded as one of England's 
foremost portrait painters. He has 
exhibited in the Carnegie Inter­
nationals since 1920, and in 1924 his 
painting, “Miss Rosen,” was awarded 
honorable mention. It is in the field 
of romantic portraiture, as exempli­
fied by “Vicomtesse Henri de Janze,” 
that McEvoy gained his greatest suc­
cess.
The other picture purchased is 
"Annie McGinley’’ by Rockwell Kent, 
well-known in Pittsburgh because he 
has been exhibiting paintings in the 
annual Carnegie International exhi­
bitions since 1908. He was given a 
one-man show by the Carnegie Insti­
tute in January 1924.
“ ‘Annie McGinley’ is a land-and-sea- 
scape in Kent’s typical style. It 
shows a rocky coast jutting out into 
the sea. The simplicity of line and 
clarity of colors are characteristic. 
In the foreground is a girl lying full- 
length on the slope of land.”
Carnegie Men Return From 
Princeton Religious Meet
Air Transport Used by Almost 
All Forms of Business, 
and Commerce
C7Iie largest selling 
quality pencil 
in tlie wovld
Superlative in quality, 
the world:famous
ENUSPENCILS
give best service and 
longest wear.
Plain ends, per dor. $1.00 
Rubber ends, per dor. 1.20
American Pencil Co., 215 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.
Makers of UNIQ UE Thin Lead 
Colored Pencils in. 12 colors—$1.00 per dor.
On Monday, February -20, Dean Tar- 
bell, Professor E. E. Dibble of the 
Heating and Ventilating Department, 
and R. V. Davis of the Y. M. C. A., 
delegates to the three-day conference 
of University and College Professor? 
and Head Masters on “Religion Among 
College Men” returned to Pittsburgh.
These Carnegie representatives 
brought back a very interesting report 
from the Princeton Conference. An im­
posing list of speakers made up the 
program. John Grier Hibbon, presi­
dent of Princeton University, presided 
during the entire conference and 
gave the welcome address on Friday 
evening. The theme of the opening 
session was, “The State of Religion 
Among College Men.” This subject 
was discussed by Ernest H. Wilkins,
President of Oberlin College, who 
gave the viewpoint of the University; 
by Martyn L. Keeler, a Senior at 
Yale, from the undergraduate’s view­
point; by Dr. Alfred E. Stearns of 
Phillips Academy, from the Headmas­
ter’s viewpoint; and by Henry Sloane 
Coffin, president of the Union Theo­
logical Seminary, from the viewpoint 
of the University preacher.
During Saturday ami Sunday ope;i j coinplislimentu ot
discussion meetings were held and 
President Clarence C. Little of the 
University of Michigan gave the clos­
ing address.
Carnegie representatives believe 
that the holding of such a conference 
as this at Princeton is an event of 
great significance to the student world 
and an indication of a more effective 
correlation of moral and spiritual in­
fluences in the University life of the 
future. They feel that while this par­
ticular conference has brought no spe­
cific working plans for immediate use, 
the realization of the need for care­
ful study of those forces which influ­
ence student character is a big step 
toward the solution of perplexing 
problems in scholastic circles today.
According to Col. Paul Henderson, 
vice president and general manager 
of National Air Transport, Inc., a 
representative of a large institution 
in Chicago, asserted in 1S92 that it 
did not and never would need a tele­
phone.
It was a telephone man who told 
the story, of course, and the institu­
tion referred to, being great and min­
istering to certain needs of several 
thousand persons, quite naturally to­
day has hundreds of telephones in its 
buildings:
When the question is asked, “What 
of the future of aviation?” there is 
none who can answer except by using 
the imagination and by speculating 
with the present achievements in avi­
aton as a basis, and with other forms 
of transportation and industry as pos­
sible examples.
All that can truthfully and accu­
rately he said now is that everyone 
interested in aviation—and who, since 
Lindbergh, is not?—is certain in his 
own mind that the future of air trans­
portation will be marvelously great.
Visions are not mere imaginings be­
cause aviation today is he means of 
transporting tons and tons of mail 
and ‘ express and many passengers 
daily over more than 10,000 miles of 
airways charted by the United States 
Department of Commerce. **
The United States government has 
been the greatest advocate of air. 
transportation, and the most out­
spoken, consistent and substantial 
promoter of aviation. There are not 
only assistant secretaries of the War 
i and Navy departments whose atten­
tion and staffs and divisional personnel 
are concentrating on aircraft and fly­
ing from the standpoint of their de-, 
partments, but there is a bureau in 
the Department of Commerce headed 
by Assistant Secretary William P. 
MacCracken, Jr., concerned with civil 
aeronautics, or commercial aviation. 
Mr. MacCracken is an aviator him­
self, war-timed trained, who became 
an instructor in the United States 
army during the World War. He as­
sisted in the organization of National 
Air Transport, Inc., which flies the 
mails and air express over the New 
York-Cliicago-Dallas lines and is the 
largest private air transport operator 
in the United States, and the largest, 
^except one, in the world.
National Air Transport planes fly 
5,000 miles, approximately, every day, 
and has'flown nearly 1,500,000' miles 
without loss of life or of cargo or 
even serious injury to anyone.
With a government bureau devo­
ting all its time to commercial aero­
nautics, practical air transport is not 
a thing of the fixture but is a tfact of 
today.
The fame of Lindbergh and the ac- 
the other noted
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLD—RENTED—REPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
Success Through 
Service
For twenty-five years the Oakland Savings & Tru^t Company has 
served with fidelity the financial requirements of the Oakland Dis­
trict, and the character of that service is reflected in its consistent 
record of growth.
Long association and intimate contact with the requirements of 
the Oakland District have given to it a keen appreciation of the in­
dividual and business needs of those it serves, and at all times it 'en­
deavors to inject the personal equation into its transactions, in the 
hope of fostering the true spirit of friendship, which, in the last analy­
sis, is the biggest asset any financial institution can hope to have.
Its various departments are thoroughly organized to meet your 
every financial need, and and it solicits your business, whether it be 
large or small, with assurance that your favor will be appreciated by 
a sustained endeavor to render complete satisfaction.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
"THE OAKLAND BANK”
Member Federal Reserve System 
Forbes and Meyran Avenues
participants in trans-ocean ic and 
over-land flights have served to 
awaken the public to the present suit­
ability of air transport to business 
and commercial pursuits, for instance 
in 1927.
Samuel D. Lasdon and Company, of 
New York, mailed 5,000 circulars to 
the millinery trade ,via airmail, ad­
vising them that a (special lot of four 
hats for window display use had been 
made up and^ upon ordbr would be 
shipped by air express. These special 
model hats had been given the names 
of famous airplanes, "The Spirit of 
St. Louis,” “Pride of \Detroit,’’ “Bei- 
lanca” and “America.” Within a 
short time, 1,000 lots of the special 
display had been sold and shipped by 
air express. This is understood ti> 
have been the largest air shipment 
°.ver made in the East.
Many , banks use the airmail either 
in transferring check clearances .be­
cause of the saving of interest t made 
possible by fast transportation that 
will’ save a business day between 
cities as far apart as Chicago and 
New York, and more between points 
farther distant, or in speeding ,up or­
dinary mail. The First National Bank 
of Wichita, Kan., has used the airmail 
ever since it started and has found 
that 90 per cent of its letters arrived 
on schedule.
On a certain Saturday, a part of an 
automatic press feeder broke in the 
Dallas, Tex., plant of the Farm and 
Ranch Publishing Company. It could 
only be replaced by the New York 
office of the press company. E. G. 
Myers, Dallas agent of the manufac­
turers of the press, telegraphed for 
the part. It arrived on the first mail 
delivery on Monday,. it having been 
shipped by airmail, and the press 
again was in operation at 10 a. m. 
that day. A similar accident occurred 
on Monday. Again the airmail came 
to the rescue. On Wednesday the 
needed part reached Dallas at 8 a. m.
About 20,000 announcements of the 
winners of the world’s typewriting 
championship were dispatched by air­
mail by the Underwood Typewriter 
Company. In previous years the re­
sults of the contest had been sent by 
telegraph. Airmail letters, strictly 
private and containing more informa­
tion than a night-letter by wire, can, 
for instance, be sent between Chicago 
and New York, with early morning de­
livery just as in the case of the tele­
graphic night-letter.
Merchandise of nearly every de­
scription is being handled by air, by
* Do you remember a few years ago 
| when the ankle-lengtli skirts and hip- 
I length hair began to get shorter and 
I shorter? Do you remember the fran­
tic protests of parents, righteously in­
spired editorials in all the newspa­
pers, and fiery sermons from the pul-1 
pits—all prophesying damnation for 
the modern girl? Who doesn’t re­
member! And now all these rigidly 
righteous (as Bobby Burns called the 
class) heartily sanction the present- 
day dress and coiffure, and indeed fol­
low the fashion as closely as' any of 
the formerly “damned.” They have 
become accustomed, that’s all. They 
have been jarred loose from their 
prejudices and made to advance their 
intellects. And now they look back 
and see the pettiness and silliness of 
their former positions.
Once more the rigidly righteous 
have struck a snag in their path of 
modern progress. They , object to 
women’s smoking! Yet, no one can 
deny that cigarette smoking by 
women is becoming more rapidly 
established as a custom every day. 
Let any one who doubts the state­
ment count his feminine friends and 
acquaintances and associates who 
smoke, and who tfo not smoke, and 
compare the two results. Those who 
smoke and those who approve of 
smoking, though -¦ they don’t indulge 
themselves, are certainly in the ma­
jority — rapidly growing majority.
Those who object to women’s smok­
ing object because they are unaccus­
tomed to seeing it. And they try to 
fool themselves and everyone else 
about their true reason for objecting, 
by stating that cigarette smoking is 
vulgar and harmful to the health. Just 
what is vulgarity, and in what way is 
smoking vulgar? As to smoking’s be­
ing harmful, everyone admits it is. But 
is it any more harmful than overeat­
ing and thereby harming tho diges­
tive system? Is it any more harmful 
than overworking or overplaying and 
impairing the health consequently? 
Is it any more harmful than occupy­
ing oi^e’s mind with mean or petty 
things and thereby impairing the 
mental health? We are accustomed 
to these things. We are bound to be­
come accustomed to smoking by 
women.
Why should we buck against the in­
evitable which, like the short skirt 
and bobbed hair, we’ll all be accus­
tomed to very soon? Why should 
those who object force the girls under 
their care to sneak about their smok­
ing instead of allowing them to de­
velop honesty and an ppen character, 
as the modern girl wants to do and is 
doing to the best of her power?
Why can’t we "live and let live?” 
Smoking is no crime. Let them who 
object to it refrain to their hearts’ 
content, and let those who want to 
smoke, smoke. I. H.
Engineering Group to Make 
Trip Abroad This Summer
mail and express. The American Rail­
way Express delivers the express to 
the air field, and at point of destina­
tion picks up the package and at­
tempts to deliver every such parcel to 
the addressee within a half hour aiter 
its arrival.
, Instances of the use of the air 
transport by almost every form or 
line of business, could be multiplied a 
thousandfold. One example will serve 
to aid the comprehension of the tre­
mendous speed of 100 miles an hour 
or better, that by air line brings near 
two points separated by vast dis­
tance:
On September 7, an express ship­
ment was forwarded from Paris, 
France, to San Francisco, where it 
was received on September 15, at 5 p. 
m., and was delivered to the con­
signee by the Amevican Railway Ex­
press Company at 5:30 p. in., just 
eight clays from the time the transit 
began!
New Haven, Conn.— (IP)—Tho Yalo 
Daily News, advertising itself as the 
oldest daily college paper in tho 
United States, is to celebrate its fifti­
eth anniversary this week.
Dean Breed Makes Address 
To Women’s Club on Schools
Dr. Mary Breed, at a literary lunch­
eon held in the Congress of Women’s 
Clubs, spoke before the members of 
the Outlook Alliance Thursday, Feb­
ruary 16. The subject matter of Dr. 
^Breed’s address, “Always and Never,” 
deplored the standardization of mod­
ern oducation, made necessary by the 
over-crowded conditions of public 
schools and colleges. Tho intelligence 
test; , so popular today, she advocates 
as a scientific measure, but not as a 
mental exercise.
“Our educational problems are far 
from solved,” she said in part. “It 
will roquiro more than 40 yoars to 
find a scientific solution which will 
build tho necessary foundation for a 
curriculum made indispensable by 
ovorcrowdod conditions.” Dr. Brood 
blames the standardization of educa­
tion for tho aversion mon and womon 
really qualified to bo educators have 
for teaching. Existing conditions are 
not conducive to individual freedom
Engineering students will ho inter­
ested in the fact that a large num­
ber of engineers associated with the 
Mid-west Power Conferonce, are sail­
ing from New York on August 18 of 
this year. They will make the Inter­
national Power Tour for six weeks 
in order to visit various plants 
abroad. Interest is foreign power 
plants has boen greatly stimulated by 
the Mid-west Power Conference and 
by the fact that treniondous strides 
have boon made by European nations 
since the war. Foreign engineering 
bodies have extended cordial invita­
tions to the prospective American 
visitors, giving indications of (future 
friendly relations as shown by social 
receptions and the throwing open of 
plants for inspection enroute.
Not only will there be opportunity 
to make a technical study of 
European machinery and methods, 
but also to visit places of scenic im­
port for the engineers. Several 
pleasure jaunts have been arranged 
to places of beauty in the many 
countries that will be visited.
Further details may be procured 
from the Headquarters of the Mid­
west Power Conference at Suite 656, 
25 Broadway, New York.
and liberty in methods of teaching, 
and intelligent souls will not tolerate 
them. Dr. Breed urged the women’s 
clubs to. follow sympathetically the 
experiments now being performed by 
private schools, colleges, and smaller 
public schools, so that they will be 
familiar with the newest solutions for 
educational problems.
Director Breed also attended the 
North Atlantic Sectional Conference 
of the American Association of Uni­
versity Women which opened in Bos­
ton, February 7.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
STUDENT
SUPPLIES
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
TheNationalJoy Smoke* is no mere
catch-phrase
YOU can prove it. Prince Albert is the Nation’s 
largest-selling brand of pipe-tobacco. It brings 
joy to more smokers than any other brand. 
Q. E. D.! Your first fragrant whiff will set your 
mouth a-watering.
And your first taste of good old P. A. in a 
pipe will satisfy your pipe-hunger as nothing 
else ever has. Cool as the first period. Welcome 
as the last. Mellow and mild and long-burning, 
right to the bottom of the bowl. Try P. A., 
Fellows, on my say-so.
Co-edK nigKoh
—the national joy smoke!
A snappy roadster, 
a wonderful girl, 
and a pipeful of good 
old P. Ad
© 1928, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco 
Company, Wimton-Salem, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928
Varsity Rifle Team 
Wins Four Matches
During the week ending' February 
38 the varsity rifle team won four 
matches. The result of the other 
match for the week Is still In doubt. 
According to the score sent in by the 
opposing team it would be a tie, but 
since this was a league match the 
targets were sent to the National 
Rifle Association where the scores 
will be checked and probably changed 
a few points.
The team improved considerably 
over their previous weeks' score, 
and with the addition of several other 
men, including a letter man from last 
year, the team is somewhat stronger 
than It has been for the past several 
weeks when only eight men were
firing.
The following teams were beaten in 
four position matches: Johns Hop­
kins University; Rensselaer Poly­
technic Institute; and Virginia Poly­
technic Institute; Louisville Univer­
sity was beaten in a three position 
match. The other match, still in 
doubt, was a league match with the 
University of Pennsylvania.
The lineups and scores were:
Carnegie Tech. 4 Pos. 3 Pos.
ICasehagen .......................... 374 " 278
Bronson ............................... 366 273
Knudsen .............................. 356 265
Fisher, G. W........................ 352 253
Lippert .................................. 344 245
1792 1314
Fisher, A. M......................... 338 245
An Id ..................................... 327 234
Cole ...................................... 327 232
Johns Hopkins Univ................... 1689
Rensselaer Poly. Inst...........'... 1750
Virginia Poly. Inst.   .............  . 1750
Louisville University ................. 1303
Univ. of Penna.............................. 1314
During the same week the complet­
ing stages for the R. I. T. C. third 
eorp area match were fired. Last 
week the team also had to' fire the 
Hearst Trophy match In addition to. 
their, regular match for the week.
This week the, varsity Is firing a 
league match with Pitt and other 
matches with Ohio State University; 
University of California; and Stanford 
University.
Robert G. Martin a sophomore in 
electrical engineering, and a numeral 
man from last year's ple.be rifle team 
wipji a bronze medal for placing ninth 
in ¡in individual sitting match con­
ducted by the N. R. A. recently. In 
this match a silver medal was offered 
to the winner and bronze medals for 
tho noxt nine men. This match was 
open to any individual in the United 
•States, and toloscoplc sights were al­
lowed. Among the competftprs were 
n number- of men with many years of 
‘experience, and also former modal 
winners, many of whom had the ad­
vantage of having telescopic sights 
on their guns.
| Printing News ]
Monday, February 27, a printing 
lecture was .given In the Industries 
building, room 104. George R. Kol- 
lor, treasurer of tho United Typotho- 
tao of America, gave' the lecture. 
"Printers' Financial. Problems” was 
tho subject,of tho lecture,' which dealt, 
with financial problems confronting 
tho printer, in his practical business 
life. Mr. Keller Is a well known per­
sonage In the printing world because 
of his active leadership in the affairs 
of tilie national organization of tho 
master printers. This lecture was one 
of a series 'given in co-operation with 
the Department of Education and tho 
United Typotlietea of America.
The March number of the "Printing 
Education’' which is published at Car­
negie Tech by the Printing Depart­
ment, will be published in the early 
part of the week. The March number 
of this magazine contains many im­
portant articles on the various phases 
of printing which are writtten by 
many industrial leaders and printing 
instructors at Carnegie and else­
where.
John S. Brookes, of Chicago, Illi­
nois, a former stpdent of the Print­
ing Department at Carnegie Tech has 
sent the printing department a valu­
able sot of patent base electros' of 
four color process plates. This new 
addition of color plates is being used 
this year in the,course given in color 
press work which is being conducted 
this semester for the first time.
Slretclrinir Your Income
Only through careful, system­
atic and efficient handling of 
your funds can you make the 
most of your Income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial welfare of custom­
ers and are ever ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial 
problems.
Your savings and checking ac­
counts, even though small* are 
welcome here.
Capital, and Surplus 
$17,500,000
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbujjr^h, Pa.
Last week's games did much to sep­
arate the proverbial grain from the 
¿dually proverbial, chaff, as to t;lntra? 
Mural basket ball standings. Of the 
original twenty-four entrants only four 
remain unbeaten. In the American 
League, Scobell Hall and the Phi 
Kap’s are tied for first place. Mc­
Gill Hall is leading in the Federal 
League and in all probabilities will 
continue to do so. Theta Xi has 
proven herself the strongest in the 
National League thus far, but it looks 
as though the Kappa Sig.’s and the 
S. A. E.’s may give her some opposi­
tion later.
Welch Hall suffered a humble de­
feat last Tuesday night. The T. X. 
team proved to be more than they 
could handle.
The S. A. E.'s won a hard fought 
game from Nu Delta Alpha. Nu Delta 
Alpha was leading at the end of the 
first Half. Rivet and Tibbetts were 
the main offensive players for the win­
ners, while Kennedy, Techinor and 
Esslinger did some fine floor work 
for the Nu Delta's.
Scobell Hall is still one of the lead­
ers in the American League, having 
Avon from Beta Sigma Rlio in a rather 
interesting game.
The Delta Phi Delta's were unable 
to offer much resistance to McGill 
Hall.and lost, the score being 19 to 13.
In, the' National League the Kappa 
Slgv’s are rapidly coming to the from. 
They won from Henderson Hall with 
ease. Their victory was due mainly 
to good defensive work. Leslie placed 
some fine shots for the Greeks.
With Smith playing forward, the 
PI K. A-.’s easily conquered the weak 
A. T. O. team.
The Beta's won their second game 
of the season from the D. U's. Tom 
Brown played a good offensive game 
for the, Beta’s. The; D. U.'s were 
hampered' somewhat by the fact that 
Dodge, one of their forwards, is, af­
flicted with a bad knee.
Pue in most part to some excellent 
team work, Boss Hall managed, to win 
their game, from Delta Tan Delta.
'Plie Plii Kap.'s defeated Kappa 
Sigma Rlio in a rather uninteresting 
game on Saturday.
Sigma Phi Epsilon got going good 
oiv Saturday against Delta Mu. Kre- 
her and . White . played, an .excellent 
game for the S. P. E’’s.
The Phi Kappa, Psi-Signia Nu and 
Phi Sigma Kappa-Alpha Sigma Phi 
games were called ofl! Saturday be­
cause of l.iie Inability of tho teams 
in question to get together In regards 
to tho time the games should be 
pla-yod.
Last Week's Scores.
National League—
Theta XI ..............................28
Wolcli Hall .......................... 7
¦ -Sigma Alpha Epsilon.............16
Nu Delta Alpha .................15
Kappa Sigma .. 
Henderson Hall
. .17 
.. 7
American League—
Phi Kappa .............................24
Kappa Sigma Itlic ............... 5
Scobell Hall .........................25
Beta Sigma Rlio ...................19
Pi Kappa Alpha ......14
Alpha Tail Omega ............... 6
Beta-Theta Pi .....................22
Delta Upsilon .......................12
Federal League1—
Sigma Phi Epsilon .............22
Delta Mu .............................. 6
McGill Hall ........................19
Delta Phi Delta ................13
Boss Hall ..............................26
Delta Tau Delta ...................19
This Week's Schedule.
Monday, February ’27, 1928- 
Delta Upsllon vs. Alpha Tau Ome­
ga—7:30.
Scobell Hall vs. Phi Kappa—S:30. 
McGill Hall vs. Boss Hall—8:30. 
v Delta Phi DeRa vs. Delta Tau 
Delta—8:30.
Intra-Mural League Standings
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Frosh Outclassed As 
Pitt And Kiski Win
PLAID MERMEN-DEFEAT 
WOOSTER COLLEGE, 35-27
Phi Kappa Psi . 
Nu Delta Alpha 
Henderson Hall
WonLostPet.
301.000•)1.667
21.667
11.500
11.500
12.333
12.333
03.000
AMERICAN LEAGUE
WonLostPet.01.000301.00021.66721.667
12.333
12s .33303.00003.000
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Alpha Sigma Phi
WonLostPet.301.00021.66721.66711.50011.50012.33311 2.33303.000
SCOTCH QUINT LOSE
TO MOUNTAINEERS
BY THREE POINTS
Thursday,. March 1, 1928- 
Kappa Sigma vs. Welch Hall—
7:31).
Nu Delta Alpha vs. Phi Kappa Psi | star 
—8:30.
Henderson Hall vs. Theta Xi—8 :30. | have lost three by a 
Delta Mu vs. Phi Sigma Kappa- 
7130. I
Clef Club Will Become
Sigma Alpha Epsilon v^. Sigma Nu 
—8:30.
Kappa Sigma Rlio vs. Beta Sigma 
Rlio—8:30. ¡
Beta Theta Pi vs. Pi Kappa Alpha | 7:30 j (Continued From Page One)
Sigma Phi Epsilon vS. Alpha Sigma Panthers a chance to put victory num-
Plii, 7:30. ber sixteen on their already long list.
In this game Harpster played an ex­
cellent game which contrasted with 
his mediocre playing up till then. 
Wednesday, Andy Kerr’s W. & J. 
end up the Tartans’ season. The 
Presidents have won 13 games and 
total of five 
points. They áre notorious for the 
way they play spectacular basketball 
against their strongest opponents and1 
mediocrely against the weaker teams.
1 Hopes can be held for a victory; the
Phi Mil Alnh'i <sinfnnici!Tartans £ave them a good tussle at1111 /«111 AlJJlld jinrUIliü j the beginning of the season. I-Iow-
------I ever, victory or no victory/ spectators
Word was received during the past I are Promised a game well worth walk-
weelc by the members of the Clef Iing a mile for-
Club, the Musical Honorary Fraterni- The lineups; 
ty, that their petition to Phi |A19^FQe Close, Anyhow!
plia, Sinfonía had been accepted, ancti} West Va.—33. Carnegie—30.
Taylor ..................F.................... Crum
Glenn ....................F.................... White
I-Iagberg ........C........ Harpster
Ratcliffe G..................... High
Black ....................G............. Hitchcock
- Field ¿oals — Harpster 5, High 3, 
Crum 3, Black 4, Glenn. 5, Taylor 3, 
Hagberg 2.
FoulS—White, 3 out ‘of 4; Crum, 1‘ 
out of 2, Harpster, 1 out; of 1; Hitch­
cock, none out of 3, Kilgore, none \ut 
of 1; Taylor 2 out of 3, Glenn, 2 out 
of 3; Black, none out of 1; Ratcliffe, 
none out of 1.
Substitution—Kilgore for Crum. 
Referee—A1 Slack.
Umpire—Buck Baird.
On last Wednesday the University 
of Pittsburgh's Freshman basket ball 
team won from the Carnegie Plebes 
by a score of 27 to 25. It was a hard 
fought game and if ever the Year­
lings should have won, it was against 
the Panther Cubs. The score see­
sawed all through the game and at no 
time was there more than a five-point 
difference. Pitt was a different team 
than that which had beaten the Tar­
tans twice during the past season. 
On Wednesday they were a ragged 
team and their usually smooth pass- 
work was rough and uncertain. With 
an advantage such as this on their 
side, the future representative Car­
negie Tech five should have taken 
them over, but they were unable to 
win. Just dumb basket ball prevail­
ed on both sides but when the Skibos 
made a blunder Pitt took advantage 
of it and scored. It is unfortunate 
that the Plebes could not score on the 
many blunders that Pitt made.
Against Kiski, Friday 'evening, it 
was a case of playing out of their 
class. These prep school boys pre­
sented an easy moving outfit which 
knew what each of its men was doing 
at all times. The final score was 
36 to 20, and at the start of the game 
KiskiJhad made 13 points before tht> 
Plebes had scored any.
Iii both games the play of Captain 
Nease helped to prevent a worse 
score than the final count showed. 
The lineup for the Kiski game: 
Carnegie—20. Kiski—36.
Nease ...................F....-............ Brown
Davis ...................F....------ McCurdy
Flanagan ............C.................... Fisher
Black ...................G................. Bartell
Carlson ...............G............... Aultman
Field goals—Nease 4, Black 1, Carl­
son 2, Brown 2, McCurdy 4, Fisher 2, 
Bartell 2, Aultman 5.
Foul goals—Nease 1, Davis 1, Flan­
agan .2, Black .1, Carlson 1, Brown 1, 
McCurdy 1,- Lipinski 1, Bartell 2, 
O’Toole 1.
Substitutions—Weiss for Davis,
Plebes Lose to Schenley High in 
Hard Fought Meet
that the Installation would take place 
sometime during tlie coming mont.li. 
The. Clef Club had been petitioning 
for the past two years.
The Clef Club was organized in the 
year :i!)19 as an honorary musical so­
ciety for men, having as its purpose 
“the improvement of the musical 
standards on the campus and tlie 
promotion of the interests of .the milk, 
sicuL organizations.'’ At that tishbi 
however, only students in the depart­
ment of Music in the College of Fine 
Arts wpre eligible for membership. 
In the year 1924 it was seen that Iljiti 
club needed reorganization. Accord­
ingly a new constitution and a new 
sol. of by-laws were drawn up with 
tho liel)) of two representatives from 
the national to which the club was to 
petition. The new constitution made 
no restrictions on eligibility. Men 
from oacli of the three colleges were 
to be eligible for membership. Calls
Not So Close!
Pitt—59. Carnegie Tech—38.
Wrobleski ............F...................... Crum
Hyatt ...................F............ (c) White
Wunderlich ........C.............. Harpster
Roed (c) ..............G............ Hitchcock
El slier ..................G................................................. Highto tliis honorary are made cflifeli year
during Campus Week, and it neces-|-\ Score by periods—
sary in the fall of the year, to those Pitt ...................................... 31 28—59
men wlio have distinguished them- Tech .................................... 17 21—38
selves'by their work in the musical Substitutions — Cohen for Wunder- 
organlzations on the campus. At.llch; Sandburg for Fisher; Zelifuss 
present the membership of the club ( fflr Sandburg; Md’Mahan for Cohen; 
numbers twenty-three'. ! Fisher for Zelifuss. Tech—Bond for
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia js the larg-JCrum; Kilgore for White.; Pomerance 
est Nat ional Musical Honorary Fra- j for High ; Letzelter L’or Pomerance; 
ternlty in the country, having chap- Brown for Hitchcock, 
ters in nearly fifty' of the larger j Field goals-r-Pitt — Hyatt 8, Wrob- 
scliools of the Éast. Carnegie can i le,ski 4, Wunderlich 2, Cohen 3, Reed 
well be proud to receive this national j 3, Fisher, Zelifuss 3. Tech—-Harpster
honorary on its campus.j 7, Crum 4, White, Kilgore 2, Hitch-
Tubsday, February 28, 1928—
cock.
CARNEGIE GLEE CLUB I Forfls—Pitt—Wrobleski, 6 out of 9;
TAKES SECOND HONORS ; Hyatt, 1 out of 1; Reed, 2 out of 4;
IN INTERCOLLEGIATE Sandburg, 2 out of 2. Tech—Crum, 
3 out of 4; White, 1 out of 1; Harp­
ster, 2 out of 3; Hitchcock, 2 out of 3.
Team fouls-—Pitt, 11 out of j 16. 
Tech, 8 out of 11.
Leading scorer—Hyatt, 17 points. 
Referee-4-Cal Bolster.
Umpire—Marty Weitzel.
Time of periods—-20 minutes.
Continued From Page One.) 
nient was raising the standard of col­
legiate choral singing. , The silver 
loving cup, which was donated by the 
Pittsburgh Press, was then presented 
to the Penn State Glee Club. In ad­
dition to this award, Penn State will 
represent the state of Pennsylvania 
at the national competition in New 
York next month. After the presenta­
tion of the cup, the five clubs, total­
ing one hundred and fifty voices, CQirj- 
bined under the direction of Harvey- 
B. Gaul, singing “Prayer of Thanks­
giving” as a conclusion to the pro­
gram.
This is only tlie second event of its 
kind held in Pittsburgh, and a much 
greater interest was shown this year 
than last year. The results at last 
year’s competition were identical
with those of this year, Penn State 
taking first place, and Carnegie second. 
It is very probable that these compe­
titions will become an annual event 
for Pittsburgh.
Freddie Galardi Mayflower 0362
UNIVERSITY TAILORS
CLEANING PRESSINGALTERING 
124 OAKLAND AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
There is a place for you 
in the Dental Profession
Never before have there been such excellent opportunities for 
men qualified as dentists and den­
tal specialists. Train for a pro­
fession offering a broad field in 
which you can make a place for 
yourself. Specialization in dentis­
try opens the door to an assured 
future.
The Harvard University Dental 
School—the oldest dental school 
connected with any university in 
the United States—offers thorough 
well' - balanced courses in all 
branches of dentistry. All modern 
equipment for practical work under 
supervision of men high in the pro­
fession.
Write for details and admission 
requirements to Leroy M. S. Miner, 
Dean.
Harvard University 
DENTAL SCHOOL
Longwood Avenue Boston, Mass.
Lured by 
Aroma of 
Neighbor’s 
Tobacco
Boston, Mass., April 21, 1927Larus & Bro. Co.,Richmond, Va.
Gentlemen:This morning I had a smoking ad­venture worth recording.Next to me in the smoking car a 
gentleman was puffing his pipe con­tentedly. I was not smoking at the moment, and the aroma of his tobacco intrigued me exceedingly. For twelve 
years I had smoked Edgeworth with­out being tempted by any other brand, but the fragrance emanating from the pipe of the gentleman beside me was so agreeable that I could not resist the temptation to speak of it.“That is wonderfully fragrant to­
bacco you have there,” I remarked. “Would you mind telling me the name of it?”
“It is Edgeworth,” he answered.
We then congratulated each other upon our mutual good taste, and I 
decided that I would continue to use his brand and mine.
Sincerely yours,S.H.Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Carnegie’s varsity swimming team 
broke into the winning side of the- 
sheet last Saturday afternoon by de­
feating Wooster College in the local' 
pool 35-27. The teams were about 
evenly matched; Tech’s winning of 
the relay race being a deciding fac­
tor in the victory.
The Plebes were not so fortunate^ 
accepting their third defeat of the- 
season, from Schenley High School. 
This meet was held in. conjunction 
with the varsity events. Of unusual, 
interest was the establishing of a new 
record in the backstroke for Carne-" 
gie’s pool. This was done by young 
Stanton of Schenley, son of Professor 
Stanton of Carnegie Tech.
Next Saturdhy the varsity wm meet 
the Case School of Science at Cleve­
land. The Plebes will oppose Lang- 
ley High, in the local pool on Friday 
afternoon, if a pending meet goes 
through.
The varsity team displayed so 
much improvement last Saturday that 
prospects of beating Case appear ex­
ceedingly bright.
Clark for Weiss, Fox for Flanagan, 
Traa for Black, Bayless for Carlson, 
O’Toole for Bartell, Abbot for Fisher, 
Lipinski for McCurdy.
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morning (Dr. Mason) 
“The Conflict, the Individual 
and the Community.
Evening (Dr. Smith)
Our Criminals; Who and What 
They Are.
You Need Pay No More —You 
Need Never Buv Another Pen
Parker Duofold writes 
more- easily because of 
Pressureless Touch. 
The light weight of the 
pen itself starts and 
keeps it writing. No ef­
fort, no fatigue. There 
ijjeweler’s Precision 
in its making, so it stays 
accurate if you use good 
ink and keep it clean.
Noil-Breakable
Then Parker Per- 
manite Barrels (23 °fo 
lighter and 100 times 
stronger than the rubber 
formerly used) make the 
Duofold Non-Break-, 
able. Thus Duofold fea­
tures are protected 
against damage.
Six graduated points, 
three sizes of barrels, 
five flashing colors, give 
man or woman wide 
selection to suit hand 
and taste.
Look for “Geo. S. Par­
ker —Duofold” on each 
•pen (pencils to match)x 
to be sure of the genuine.
CKN aLDdND CNi UjJnLiV 
gLiNXM&WWNE v&XO
oegrgad Jr.®
Lady Duofold $5
tsGagr1 ul ç^uoCiilnuikulvu i 1 Ol S Alibibv 1’ iiAlN !\ ltfcll.L'»

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
COMPLETE STORE for MEN
- - for Spring 
formats, in
general................
the Intercollegiate 
Hop in particular
Dinner Jackets
in the young man’s manner
Waistcoats . . . white or black . . . $8.50
FcmKbs OcoeK fc
Store for Men
WHfcM Yöu' v/E
8éTSm wiTH 
ÉicSHT different 
vSHO IN FOUR
KOMTHS ^
BN0,NWP^XHjjd&i0 ots
AJ'U'-zaNjtWh0 h
CAIM’5 
J_Mre­
houseoh; For Mf* 
0jj_ old
Y9lO8 j, FR6£ LUtJÇlA COvJkJTER.3
ßUT VAJHE-fJ You RfJALL-Y 
GGT A CALL cj. a 
"TP^YOOT’' ¦
BALTIMORE
Custom Tailored 
Clothes for Men
Announce Their
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
CO-ED RIFLERS 
CONTINUE MARCH 
OF VICTORIES
mind with various new facts hope­
lessly jumbled.
Acting on this belief. Dr. Baker said, 
according to the Syracuse Daily Sun,
the Chemistry department proceeded 
to make out examinations for which 
cramming would be impossible.
No Place to Try It
It may be true, as scientists say, 
that stretching is an aid to health, but 
it doesn’t seem to help truth any.
The basket ball season will close tomorrow night, with Carnegie meeting | 
Wash-Jeff on the local floor. The Presidents are coming here confident of | 
winning, and with good reason. The Plaid has never yet downed the Red and 
Black in the cage sport, although a good game has always resulted when the 
two rivals mixed, and this year, with W. & J. having what is admitted to be 
one of the weakest teams in their history, Carnegie turns out a team which 
has so far failed to win a game. A happy coincidence for the Little Washing- 
"tonians!
The same lineup which started the last two games will probably face the 
Presidents for the opening whistle. These boys are rather lacking in team­
work, but possess quite a bit of ability and a world of fight, as was demon­
strated last week, and undoubtedly will give everything they have before al­
lowing the season to go on the books as one in which every game was lost.
The preliminary game will see the Carnegie plebes facing the Wash-Jeff 
frosh, with the plebes also trying mightily to break a season record of consec­
utive losses.*******
The games last week resulted as was generally expected, but the fans wit­
nessing them receivd many a thrill. In the Pitt game, after the Panthers had 
attained an apparently insurmountable lead, Carnegie, without the services of Captain White, suddenly found a scoring craze, after Harpster had sunk a 
difficult shot under the basket, and piled up four consecutive field goals in rapid succession, causing the Pitt five to momentarily blow up. The Pitt 
•coach stopped the Tartan rally, however, by injecting his midget star, Zeh- I 
fuss, into the lineup, and the Panther machine again got going, with the in- j 
•evitable result.The game with West Virginia gave Tartan followers a real thrill. At the 
half, the game was apparently Carnegie’s. The Plaid had a good lead, and 
was playing good basket ball. But a rejuvenated Mountaineer quintet appeared 
for the second.stanza, and played the Carnegie team off ,its feet. It was one 
•of those games which leaves the spectators about as worn out as the con­
testants, but even the fact that it w’as a good game, a tossup until the final 
whistle, fails to give any satisfaction, for the victory column is still blank. *******
The intra-Mural basket ball season is progressing, with better games each 
week. The leadership in all of the leagues has narrowed down to one or two 
teams, and in some of them the winners will probably be decided this week. *******
The varsity swimming team defeated Wooster College on Saturday, in the 
home pooi. Every event was close and hard fought, and the result was in 
doubt until the next to last event. Much of the credit for the victory should 
go to Coach Ri’sedorph, because of the vast improvement in form and time 
shown by his team, as a result of his tutelage.
The plebe swimmers met Schenley High at the same time, losing after a 
much better fight than had been expected. Stanton of Schenley, a son of Pro­
fessor Stanton of the Civil Engineering Department, was the high scorer of 
the meet, incidentally breaking the pool record for the one hundred-yard back­
stroke.*******
Doc Marks left’Thursday night for Paso Robles, California, where the
training camp of the Pittsburgh Pirates’ baseball team is located. Doc is to
act as team physician for the local diamond artists at camp, and on their 
training trips. He appeared as hale and hearty as ever in spite of his opera­
tion for appendicitis less than two weeks before.¦ * * -. * * •
Wally Steffen visited the school on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week, 
attending the annual football party, at the Pittsburgh Country Club, on Tues­
day night, and addressing the members of the varsity and freshman squads 
on Wednesday.He expressed himself as well pleased with the number of men eligible, 
and advised all to keep at the books for the spring exams.*******
The condition of the floor at the gym is causing protest from members of 
practically all who use it, including members of varsity, freshman and intra­
mural basket ball teams. The blocks of which the floor is made are con­
stantly coming loose, and while no serious accidents have resulted therefrom, 
the floor should be fixed before any do occur.
Loose blocks, however, are just a part of the difficulty. Those blocks are 
set directly on the concrete base of the gym, and give the same effect as of 
playing upon a concrete floor. Practically all who use the gym are rewarded 
with with a set of sore feet and stiff leg muscles. The need of a regular 
hardwood floor, set upon beams so as to provide some resiliency, has fre­
quently been brought to the attention of school authorities, resulting in vague 
promises to do something about It. It is high time that sufficient kicks should 
be made to bring, about a new floor before the next school year.
Petitions rarely do any good, but undeniably some form of concerted pro­
test should be made. Perhaps action by the governing body of the Intra- 
• Mural basket ball league, which is representative of a vast majority of the 
students using the gym, would do some good: It's worth a try, anyhow.
The woman’s rifle team has added 
two more victories to its list of tri­
umphs by defeating the University of 
Delaware and Drexel Institute. Carne­
gie scored a total of 4S9 points to Del­
aware’s 464, while Drexel lost with a 
score of 466 agaiust Carnegie’s 4S6. 
The team is undoubtedly making a 
fine showing this year and there Is
reason to believe that its record at
the end of the season will be even 
higher than last year.
The results of the four matches
fired last week, have not yet come in. 
University of Wyoming, Michigan 
State College, University of Missouri 
and Depauw University were the col­
leges with which the girls competed.
The individual scoring against Del­
aware was as follows:
Alice Bright....................... 98
Helen Bright ..................... 98
Jean Roy............................ 9S
Isobel Sheppard ......... 98
Katherine Collins ............ 97
. The scoring in the Drexel match 
was as follows:
Jean Roy ............................. 98
Alice Bright ....................... 9S
4 Helen Wliiteliill ............... 97
Katherine Collins ............. 97
Kathryn O’Donnell............ 96
Syracuse, N. Y.—(IP) — The argu- 
I ments of the Carnegie Tartan recent- 
| ly in defense of cramming before ex­
aminations, were somewhat refuted 
recently by Dr. Ross A. Baker, head 
of the chemistry department at Syra­
cuse university.
"Cramming,” he said, “is unethical. 
No athlete would begin to train for 
football half an hour before the game, 
and mental training is on the same 
order.
“It is just as crooked for a student 
to cram his head with innumerable 
details at the last minute as it is ac­
tually to carry written information In­
to the examination room. What is 
hastily collected is usually of an un­
important nature and will crowd out 
the fundamental ideas gathered dur­
ing the whole semester.”
A person of ordinary intelligence, 
he said, cannot gain by studying 
madly an hour before the examination. 
It is all wrong, he thinks, to fill one's
PLEBE RIFLEMEN DOWN 
KISKI IN SHOULDER 
TO SHOULDER MATCH
Defeat Delaware But Lose Close 
Matches to West Va. and 
Central H. S.
. Kiski may down the Plebe basket- 
eers with apparent ease, but it takes 
five better riflemen than the upriver 
school possesses to defeat the first- 
year men from Carnegie. One real­
izes this after lie has heard the song 
of victory sung by the whizzing bul­
lets as they flew down the range to­
wards that part of the target known 
as tlie bull’s eye, for Carnegie Plebe 
riflemen proved themselves superior 
to Kiski when they won a sfyoulder to 
shoulder match with the prep school 
boys, by a margin of 62 points, the 
score being 677 to 615.
Saturday’s match was fired in three 
positions, prone, sitting and kneeling. 
Due to the number of men firing, the 
match was a long affair and it was 
evident from the time the first scores
SPRINGOPENING
----at----
Skibo Inn
TODAY
NOTICE 
TRACK MEN!
Coach Halferty wants all can- • 
didates for varsity and plebe ¦ 
track to attend a meeting in the * 
¦ trophy room of the gym, tomor- • 
row at 4 r30 p. m.
All candidates, whether experi- « 
enced or not, are requested to at- • 
tend this meeting, at which plans • 
for the coming season will be out- • 
lined.
were marked up that Carnegie would 
win.
The individual scores of the Kiski 
match were:
, Carnegie—
1. Anderson ...................153
2. Montgomery ............. 136
3. Marshall .................... 136
4. Maidment ........... 132
5. Skelves .......\............ 130
Total ............................  677
Kiski—
1. Daugherty, R............. 125
2. Compton ..................... 125
3. Balsiger ..................... 124
4. Latham ...................... 121
5. Champlin ................. 120
Total   .......................... 615
During the week ending February 
18, the Freshmen won a prone, kneel­
ing watch from the University of Del­
aware Freshmen, 885 to 884, but lost 
a prone match to Central High 
School, 482- to 478, and a prone, sit­
ting match to the first year men of 
West Virginia University, 941 to 930.
the more favorable rules of 
last year both of these teams were 
defeated by a comparatively large 
margin.
At a meeting of the Freshman team 
Friday/in the office of the Rifle Club, 
Genter was elected captain for the 
current season. The new captain has 
fired well thus far in addition to Ills 
duties as one of the team managers 
and should prove an excellent leader 
in the remaining matches.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
LEARN TO DANCE
dacqiies School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
i/2 OFF 
SALE ON 
BOOKS
PRISCILLA GUTHRIK'S 
BOOK SHOP
SCHENLEY
Something Is Always Taking the Joy Out of LifeBy BRIGGS
And just a: 
You'Pir 
VJOlvJDER I hJG 
HOUJ , /MUCH 
L01OÓER You 
cam KeeP 
UP Your 
X5AILY FAST
You (SET A TIP CKL. 
CKNDN1X L nLf aLD. 
rrj A WEW Show THAT'S 
JUST MADE POR You
WÊLU I HOPE 
HE AlsJ'T STRUCK 
ULIMD BEFORE
YoO DO A ACT
.lDO CpvLyN llF!D>51 vC 
O-hh-06 8cGo LyD 
High Moxes
CTNO
The Smoother and Better Cigarette
'•s. - not a cough in a carload
1928, P. Lorillard Co.. Eit. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1928
o egradut 3>bfan
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2C00 Publlßhod one« every week during the coliche 
year by undcrKraduatcn of Carnegie Imitltuto 
of Technology. Entered In t'ho Plttnburgh 
Pont Office nn »econd-clnmi matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-In-Chief ...............'..Fenton FinnManaging Editor................Milton Cohen
News Editor................Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred Wood«
Women’» Editor.......................Jean RoyAlumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
NfBKLi0N EDITORS 
Josephine 6lark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bulllnger William RoseA. E. Finher E. Weaver
John Schnieder Meredith Stump
Helen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. C. Ralaton Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr.
E. Jarema
T. Lippert
W. W. Hay
C. ParkJ. J. Boyle
II. N. Meixner ,
J. Carpe H. Levinson 
J. W. Eason H. Booth 
M. Echels 
N. Kline W. H. Worland 
W. H. Martsolf 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I; Shusset 
A. G. Allen
Ina I-Iansell 
E. Sclileslnger
B. Kami
J. II. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. O’Donnell 
R. Bramson 
H. Whitehill 
R. Barr A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. NelsonC. F. Aclcenheil 
A. F. Phillips 
W. Lv Myers
D. H. Genter
lege years are not likely to miss a 
class out of pure laziness—but even 
If. they did miss ten per cent of the 
classes it would be a relatively lower 
number of absences than the present 
system has brought about. It would 
bo an average of about one class per 
every throe units of a subject per 
semester, an attendance within these 
limits should be sufficient for most 
men to obtain the best possible re­
sults In a course.
Regardless of how the problem is 
solved it should embody some method 
whereby those raro but entirely ne­
cessary reasons for absences can be 
included and should be at the same 
time strict enough to accomplish the 
eventual elimination of the unfit (in­
ferring that this shall include those 
disinterested or lazy persons who are 
found in small numbers at every col­
lege). The present method is similar 
to that of a kindergarten school and 
any change from its continual petty- 
ness would be an improvement.
PETTY THIEVING
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillionAdvertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants— R. WelirieT. R. Zone D. H. Genter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION 
Circulation Manager 
. Assistants—
G. Bralimst 
J. Roth
G. C. Harbison 
G. Thompson B. Wedner 
A. Teplitz 
M. Malinich 
R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bontonari
STAFF
Harold Kandell
A. Frank 
A. HaynesC. E. Blass 
S. Bluestone 
I. Levin-
S. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville
Office—Room 12, Induntricn Bulldinj?. Office 
Hourn—Mondny 1« ThurHdayn, 12:80-l :20 
Painsr made up Friday, 12:30-G:00.
To imiuro publication on the Hucceedlnn: 
Tuoflday, new« item« munb bo In the Student 
pout office or Tartan Office before 4 :30 Thuru- 
day.
Aftior Office Hourn call Schcnley 1490, 
Schenloy SUMC., Schenloy »211.All editorials which are initiated 
are contributed by persons other than 
the editor, uniniated .editorials are 
those by the editor.
IDLE DREAMS
Petty thieving of one kind or an­
other lias been going on for some' 
time, indeed, it would probably be 
next to impossible to totally eradicate 
this sort of thing froni a school as 
large as this Institution.
An occurrence of this sort which 
was more than petty in every sense 
of the word took place last week 
when some 25 or 30 pounds of home­
made caudy was stolen from a room 
adjoining the Union. The quantity 
stolen was a part of a larger supply 
which had been collected from con­
tributors by the girls in charge of the 
candy sale at the recent Theater 
Benefit. The money for its sale was , 
to have been applied to the scholar­
ship fund. An old fashioned treat­
ment of tar and feathers would be too 
good for the low sneaks who were 
small enough to steal from a cause of 
tills sort.
Whoever the tlilef may have been; 
a student; part of the Institute's help; 
or an outsider; is difficult to deter­
mine, but every effort should be made 
to prevent the reoccurrence of such 
thieving. Authorities should be 
doubly cautious about the integrity of 
the help they employ and should bend 
every effort toward the discovery of 
the culprit.
The political pot is beginning to 
boil, and as is usual, in the first 
stages of cookery, the odbrs are not 
very; conciliatory to the olfactory 
senses, as the professor would say.
eaten by the cooks themselves or, as 
is not impossible, in their profound 
ignorance of the art, they may even 
have thrown away to the scavengers 
the best morsels.
If it were not quite so serious
Every four years or so, the country j matter, one might even get lost in the 
is plunged into chaotic unrest. The j pleasant . business of constructing 
political warhorses then exhume their | similes, and declare offhand the elec-
bat-wing collars and Prince Albert 
frocks and strike the proper public 
poses. One practices serious frowns, 
another limbers up his (frozen fea­
tures, ready to break into a winning 
smile when the committees from the 
women's clubs and the local boosters 
begin to call. How astounding it is 
to perceive the quick rising of the 
social passion in the breasts of our 
aspirant statesmen! How they recoil 
from the vicious selfishness of the 
man of the opponent party, and how 
they storm in protestation of their 
own unsullied, Simon-pure desire to 
serve the "peepul”.
The erstwhile neglected citizen 
who is accustomed to spend most of 
his days in rapturous envy of the men 
in the public eye. is given an oppor­
tunity in the ballot-season of being 
consulted, of being catered to, and 
of "voicing” his views on the burning 
questions of the day. For a few rap­
turous months, preceding the demo-
M
THE EXCUSE SYSTEM
In gonoral. Carnegie has eliminated 
any methods which are similar to 
those of a high school or prep school,
( and of course this is as it should bo. 
min£WQVOr' ^loro IH ono system in par* 
i l;hel!^r which has long provallod at 
Institution that would apply hot- 
"to a high sohool or to the olomon- 
grades. The method In question 
that procedure which Is ro'qulred
-----order to obtain an excuse for ab-
once from claaaea.
Under (he proaont ayatom, If one 
mlaaea a class he mnat obtain an ex­
cuse from the school physician, or In 
a few casoa from the Doan of Ills par­
ticular school. If such la obtained,
I he abaenco la dlaregardod and the 
student may make up his work. On 
the aurfalo thla may soom a reasona­
ble method but actually It Is oxtreme- 
ly potty. If one Is 111 lie must have 
a doctor's certificate of such illnopr, 
or must have reported It to the school 
physician. In case he has neglected 
oithor of thoso requirements he is 
forced to present a written statement 
from hfs parents if a commuter, or 
from the president of his fraternity 
if a fraternity man. The school evi­
dently assumes that a man of college 
age is not mature enough that his 
own word can be relied upon. The 
red tape connected with the above 
procedure is obnoxious to a student— 
often a man of twentf-four or twenty- 
five. Rather than be subjected to 
such pettyness he will accept the cut 
as such and receive a zero for the 
day’s work.
It should be quite obvious that there 
are often incidental reason for stu­
dents missing classes which do not 
come within the present excusable 
classification. On occasions, a reason 
of this sort will occur and an import­
ant unannounced quiz may be missed. 
The results is that the student will 
either endanger his chances of pass­
ing the course or lie as to his reason 
for being absent. There are some 
two' thousand or so persons attending 
classes at Carnegie and it would be 
safe to say that practically every ono 
of the two thousand odd have been 
nompollod to become liars on ono- 
or several occasions; after all why 
shouldn't they bo, since they have 
no hotter alternative?
A different systoni would bo wol* 
come from the standpoint of both 
students and Instructors. Many col­
leges have adopted the idea of allow­
ing studonts ten per cent of cuts, with 
the understanding that any work can 
bo made up and full credit received—• 
if not madb up a zero is given. In or­
der to make up work missed after the 
ten per cent of cuts are used, the most 
rigid rules are applied, the require­
ment usually being a statement certi­
fying the attendance of a physician. 
Some may argue, that a system of this 
kind would result in all students cut­
ting ten per cent of their classes, this 
argument, however, seems unfolded, 
it is unpleasant to make up back 
work and then, too, most men of col-
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle
Thistledown was extraordinarily 
glad to see that there was actually 
three contribs in the laBt Tartan 
about the plobo problem. He was 
also glad to see that two of them | 
more or less supported his own ob­
servation: that plebe regulations
ought to be strictly enforced until 
Christmas, and then honorably ended. 
With the sentiment of the other letter 
Thistledown heartily concurs. Poor 
sportmanshlp as displayed by boding, 
hissing, unpleasant remarks, or In 
fact by anything, does not become a 
school such as Tool) is supposed to 
be. Tech ought to give any visiting 
team courteous treatment. Whether 
the paddle la one remedy for the situa­
tion, Thistledown doubts. Cortain'ly 
not unleaa plobo offenders can bo 
actually spotted at games, and sent 
up for Immediate trial. The situation 
can bo host got at through organized 
school sentiment (for good sportman­
shlp and fair play, and the fraterni- 
tlos, acting aa individual groups, can 
exert a powerful Influence here, if 
they will. Thlstlodown calla for more 
contribs, and the support or denial 
of his presont slogan: End plebe
regulations at Christmas.
Thistledown has ‘another very 
vigorous and bitter complaint to make 
in connection with the plebe problem. 
He considers freshman hair cutting 
inexcusable, and he wishes he could 
stir up enough campus sentiment 
against it to make it an outlawed and 
impossible thing. Taken in itself, of 
course, it is little more than a ridicu­
lous and desperate gesture of the 
sophs. It is a fearful threat, first of 
all. by which they are able to frighten 
and coerce a few of the more unruly 
plebes into obedience to them. Then, 
to show that it is no idle threat, 
some hair is actually cut, and the 
sophomore proclaim their impotence 
by that contemptible and unpardon­
able proceeding. No doubt a haircut 
humiliates the poor unfortunate plebe 
who gets one, but more than that it 
proclaims the inability of the sopho­
mores to handle that plebe. It 
obviously means that orders, com­
mands, threats, disagreeable penal­
ties, and paddling have not reduced 
tliat plebe to meekness and humility.
1 The haircut may bo a very visible 
personal disfigurement to him, but 
the plobo who has one' may wear it 
as a halo of insubordination against 
sophomoric idiocios. He has bowed 
to the soplioinoros, although he may 
have bent for tliom, and they liavo 
only givon ovldonce to all the world 
of this Insult to them, when they clip 
his skull. Hazing by hair cutting, 
however, properly bolongs only in un­
known Southern and Western prop 
and high schools presided over by 
illiterate country ljiclcs with normal 
shhool degrees. Most colleges con­
sider liaircutting a sufficient ground 
for u faculty investigation, and ex­
pulsion, or at least, suspension, .of the 
cutters. If Tech were a civilized 
school there would be the same pro­
hibition against it here. In the mean­
time, while we are waiting the arri­
val of civilization at the outskirt of 
Schenley Park, Thistledown boldly 
suggests that If there is any more
RUTH SUCKOW’S IOWA 
INTERIORS
The problem of realism is an ever 
present one. Its intricacies constant­
ly appear to and confront the critic. 
There seems no immediate possibility 
of definitive solution. But. then the 
problem of realism is no different 
from dozens of other critical prob­
lems in this respect: for criticism
amounts in this twentieth century to 
the discretion and taste and a bit of 
knowledge of the critic. Standards 
have flown, and criteria for judgment 
are no more.
Yet one would wish for some tangi­
bility, some stability. Relativity is 
not dear to the heart of tlie Nordic 
Occident. Temperamentally, we Amer­
icans feel kindly disposed toward 
outer authority. England is not so 
very different from America in this 
regard. Standards, or perhaps I 
should say, the. return to standards 
seems liop as far in the future as it 
did several years ago. The standards 
when they come will have a rational 
flexibility, yet they will be component 
of stability and Reason and reality.
And realism is to be one of the 
first modes of expression, I feel, to 
attain stability. I pose as no prophet; 
for t am far too unsure of the rea­
sonableness of Nords and of myself; 
yet I sense a coming of a demand for 
this stability. We become awarellof 
what existence means, the while '«*8 
do not understand its convolutions J 
we formulate an attitude toward life. 
In the scheme of this future.of real­
ism, in America a|. least, Ruth 
Suckow, as a Writer and a theorist by 
implication, will occupy an important 
place.
For years now she' has been feel­
ing her way. She is not a pioneer, 
for there have been many others 
dabbling with these nuances of 
realism in literature. Sherwood An­
derson and Dreiser and Hemingway 
and a dozen i others have felt that 
they liavo struck cords of actuality; 
yet Ruth 'S’uckow has struck them in 
a way loss' artificial, less literary, 
less eccentric than any of the others. 
In her method of telling of the small 
things In the lives of Iowa farmers 
and Iowa urbanites, there is under­
standing without condescending sym­
pathy, there is irony, but it has 
largeness unlike that of the individual 
writer. It may be simply that she
has come to understand the meaning cratic debauch, his ego expands and
of the word, aloofness; for detach­
ment from her subject has meant the 
complete blossoming of unlerstand- 
ing, understanding in its fullest force. 
If absence of point of view, of the ob­
viousness of point of View, at least, 
means anything to realism, and I feel 
that .it does, then Ruth Suckow has 
caught, in her writing, something in­
finitely important. There w&s in The 
Odyssey of A Nice Girl almost a 
Greek dignity; but there was no im­
personality; continually she saw lit­
tle things as parts of. a larger scheme. 
She comes nearer to the hearts of in* 
significant people than the Greek 
tragedians ever, could have come. An 
orphan for her is quite as significant 
as was a prince or a king for Euri­
pides. Her canvas is restricted, col­
loquial, explicit, not ideal, general, 
snobbish.
There have been years which indi­
cate her progress. In Iowa Interiors 
a collection of her old as well is more 
recent shorter sketches, there is a 
record of formation. Many of the 
stories show the immature artist,' un­
sure of her people, unsure of her at­
titude toward them, unsure of her 
technique. In those young stories, 
there are characters who are hardly 
more than types, there are story- 
structures culled from the traditional 
sources, there are technical tricks by 
the score of the kind taught by any 
of the correspondence schools of 
short-story writing. As she grew 
there advanced her art. In place of 
types there are real persons; story- 
forms become more naturally inevita­
ble; in place of style there is sim­
plicity, starkness, austerity: one
senses no epigrams, no deliberate 
word messages. Miss S’uclcow man­
aged to take herself out of her story 
entirely; in her story there was only 
that bit of life which she had chosen 
as dramatic and pitiful and beautiful.
Of these later stories solving, as I 
see it, one of the fundamental prob­
lems' of the realistic metliod, I call 
your attention to such works of true 
genius as A* Start in Life, and Four 
Generations. They have unlimited 
authenticity; they suggest'integral 
parts of life; and they have the real­
ity of life seen directly and clearly 
by someone closer to life than a 
philosopher, the artist.
E. W. W.
the poor mortal suns himself in the 
glory of his importance. If democ­
racy is unsuccessful in any other way, 
at least it does grant this moment 
when in many ways, the voter is 
¡recognized by persons outside of his- 
block or neighborhood.
The goings-on at Washington reach 
a fever heat. The people’s repre­
sentatives begin to strike out at the 
imaginary foes of the commonwealth, 
at the insidious foes who would 
break down the bulwarks of our 
liberties, and suddenly they are 
shocked by the distress and economic 
¡“depression of their constituents. If 
nothing better can be found, an in­
vestigation can be broached and the 
dissidents are allowed to- spread their 
outbursts, all over the front pages of 
the “papers” and everyone feels re­
lieved, except those who have had 
the poor sense to have been born in 
relative penury.
As for the more hidden log-rolling, 
political trading-and rigging, of this 
nothing can be told- at the right time. 
It is only later after a crop of disap­
pointed office-holders have been 
thrown off the political bandwagon 
and have lost all their plumg, that we 
begin to hear rumblings .of the scan­
dalous proceedings prior to the last 
©lection. Then the odors* from the 
cookery impress one as rather nau­
seating, and the impression'» grows 
that the sumptuous repasts laid out 
for the delectation of the voter have 
involved some puttering about in the 
recesses of the pantry. Some might 
object even that the uncovering or 
scandals is like raking over the re­
fuse, but only too often we find that 
the most nourishing bits have been
haircutting tills year, the plebes or­
ganize a ifew kidnapping parties, cap­
ture a few obnoxious sophs, and 
show them a few satorial tricks. ,
Thistledown wishes to acknowledge, 
as the editors did in a recent Tartan, 
that this column was originated by 
one of the illustrious editors of the 
new Carnegie Quarterly, to which 
Thistledown wishes all good luck. 
Thistledown wishes to point out, how­
ever, what any of his readers with a 
nose for. the flatulence of style must 
have already observed, that Cardo 
Chardon Disenwolle is not that illus­
trious editor in disguise.
Deaf Thistledown: Why do fra­
ternity cooks serve bean soup? 
Answer: Why don’t they serve .it
oftener? Don’t you like it?
Thistledown wishes to let Hattie 
Squawk ’31 know that he thinks her' 
new ear rings very becoming, but he 
wishes she wouldn't use so much 
rouge on her nose.
Pittsburgh, Pa.—(IP)—Economics, 
trade union problems, current events 
and public speaking are to be taught 
at. the Union Labor College of Pitts­
burgh, organized in December, which 
has now been under way for several 
weeks, and according to union 
officials, is drawing a surprisingly 
large number o£ students.
The flrst college bulletin, just is­
sued, states that the college was or­
ganized by a committee of the Central 
Labor Union, of Pittsburgh. John 
Bropliy is secretary of the college and 
Professor W. L. Nunn and C. E. 
Warne, of the University of Pitts­
burgh are its,principle instructors.
. So fast are the students increasing 
>in number, Secretary Bropliy stated, 
that the Board of Education will be 
asked shortly to place additional 
school buildings at the disposal of 
the college for classes which are 
held at night.
LContribs
In order to best prepare the future 
Sophomore class for the duties of en­
forcing Plebe Regulations, where it is 
adjudged that present Sophomor6 
class has failed, the reasons and. 
causes whereby regulations came to 
such a terrible pass must be remedied 
as best they can.
No one .will deny that the Fresh­
man class of this year is but a dupli­
cate of other years. However, much 
damage might be done by so admit­
ting. But, it is not their initiative, 
their ability to overcome obstacles, or 
their disregard of tradition that has 
caused the downfall of this most im­
portant of all campus customs for the 
simple reason that they were found 
unnecessary. It is only human to take 
something for nothing, or to fall into 
the control of something which will 
legall3r release us irom some obliga­
tion, and we cannot class the fresh­
men as being Inhuman.
So when the close of the football 
season rolled around and the possibil­
ity of exemptions for the conquering 
heroes of the freshmen class seemed 
bright, the little push afforded was 
all that was necessary to relieve some 
forty-odd of their dinks and other 
freshmen paraplioranalia. Then, for 
the flrst time, it was noticed that the 
freshmen class was not living up to 
regulations. On the other hand, the 
unusually large number of freshmen 
seemed to be so physically incapaci­
tated as to make it impossible to 
travel at any time without a hat, 
vivid tie, and dotted socks. Conse­
quently, a prohibitive number of 
freshmen are now not breaking regu­
lations but only excused from comply­
ing with them.
It is not my purpose to shift the bal­
ance and exonerate the sophomores,
toral seasons are much like three- 
ring circuses.. But then it is often 
harrowing to the intelligence of some 
and disheartening to the sentiment 
of others to observe how nonchalantly 
and blindly the public resources are 
bartered away, how the long purse can 
win the victory, and how inflamed can 
become the stirred-up prejudices of 
the citizenry of the land.
We have our brood of garrulous 
admirals, our promoters of national 
hatred, our silly stock of quixotic ad­
venturers in the legislative halls 
whose only fault is perhaps their lack 
of humor. When it comes to a matter- 
of principle, for example, it is dis­
quieting to observe how easily such 
matters revolve about private inter­
ests, or sectional viewpoints. With 
our geographical system of represen­
tation, each representative has an 
outlook bounded by the confines of 
his shoestring district or his state— 
aand even this very often is con­
ceived of simply in terms of so much 
disposable patronage.
To take an issue now exciting the 
congressional cloakrooms, consider 
the measure to construct an amazing 
increase to the navy forces. In all 
the protestations of good-will and de­
sires for peace we have lately in­
dulged in, it does seem nothing less 
than maddening to suggest the ex­
penditure of over a half billion dollars 
for some ¿more bristling armament. 
And yet, how much easier it is to 
inveigh against the imaginary foes 
and the desire to parade our own 
material glory in the face of the 
world! On such occasions, our rep­
resentatives do experience, no doubt, 
the rising in their breasts of the im­
portance of their office. It does not 
take a venal statesman to rally 
around such a measure or an investi­
gation into our economic problems. 
But it takes some moral feeling and 
simple humor to explode these dan­
gerous performances of our represen­
tatives.
These thoughts are not exactly con­
structive, but it would do well in the 
coming months to turn an inward eye 
upon the great drama of primaries, 
conventions, debates, and recrimina­
tions which will engage our attention. 
We remember reading of a pow-wow 
held by the braves of an Indian tribe 
relative to. the affairs of the tribe, 
and the suspicion has always re­
mained that more of common, sober, 
dispassionate good sense was dis­
played there than in many of our 
political scenes today. And as for 
mock-heroics and wind-jamming, 
there was never an Indian assembly 
that had anything on our national 
conventions.
“College Yard” Dear to Harvard,
“Campus” Called Barbaric Term
For 250 Years Historic School Has 
Treasured Name of Open Space, 
While Students and Faculty 
Declare Latin Expression 
Foreign to Traditions 
For no less' than 250 years-the stu­
dents and professors of Harvard-'have
it was this court which was called the 
"campus.” The unimproved waste 
lands behind the buildings was re­
ferred to conveniently as the "back 
yard” for at least 50 years after the 
founding of the college.
As the lands were improved and
reassured themselves and others that1 gradually built up, the "back yard’
College Yard” is the only appropri­
ate epithet for describing the grounds 
which the college buildings are 
situated, and that "Campus” is a bar­
baric expression, foreign to the 
usages of Harvard.
The more modern traditions of the 
school have set up an insuperable 
barrier to the . introduction of the 
more common Latin word “campus,” 
which has made its way into virtu­
ally all of the 350 or more colleges 
and universities of the United State3 
and Canada since Princeton adopted 
the term in 1774.
Oblivious to the unrecorded fact 
that even Harvard at one time had 
its “campus,” and that it was the first 
of . the American colleges to employ 
the term, the men of Harvard have 
declared for decades that there ha3 
never been anything but the “College 
Yard.” Not even the residence of 
4,000 stjidents from other undergradu­
ate colleges at Harvard University 
has threatened the overthrow of the 
distinctive “Yard.”
Long Forgotten Plot.
The original, and the only ‘‘Harvard 
Campus” is now but a small and long- 
forgotten plot of ground within the 
bounds of the “College Yard.” 
sachusetts Hall and Harvard Hall 
comprised the first buildings of the 
little cpllege nearly 300 years ago.
N When Stoughton Hall was later 
built between the two older buildings, 
the three formed an open court, and
became known simply as the “Yard," 
and in the course of the next 200 years 
the term became so distinctive at 
Harvard it finally gained recognition 
as one of the esteemed traditions of 
the school.
As early as 1659 “College Yard” 
was used officially by the indignant 
corporation of Cambridge, upon the oc­
casion which is believed to have es­
tablished another tradition—that stu­
dents be considered free from the 
jurisdiction of police when within the 
college area.
Meanwhile “campus” gained in 
popularity. At Princeton the term 
was used as early, as. 1774, suppos­
edly because of the Scottish proclivi­
ties of Dr-; John^Witherspoon, the first 
Scottish president of Princeton. Scot­
tish universities, it is said, treasured 
Latin forms with a more profound 
reverence than their English broth­
ers, and since Dr. Witherspoon had 
given the name of Tusculum to his 
country seat near Princeton, it is 
plausible that he may have favored 
the Latin “campus” to "the College 
Grounds,” “the College Green,” “the 
College Yard,” and other expressions 
which had become familiar in the 
Mas- j English and American colleges.
From Princeton the new term 
spread to 'South Carolina as early as 
1826 to New York in 1863, to Yale in 
1869, to Pennsylvania in 1876, to 
Michigan in 1878.—Christian Science 
Monitor.
but to criticise where criticism is due, 
in a fifty-fifty admission. Those fresh­
men who are still under regulations in 
a legal sense, are not complying 100 
per cent, but deviate only enough to 
make a trial list for each Thursday 
difficult. Now, with a trial every Thurs­
day in the Science School, and a fairly 
consistent trial schedule in Arts and 
Industries, the freshmen have been 
scheduled for Gym during the Trial 
Hour, there again being "excused.”
I do not infer that the sophomores 
are 100 per cent, or near that, in their 
enforcement regulations, but I think
that they are as successful as any 
class has been with the limited num­
ber of freshmen who'come under their 
jurisdiction. Perhaps a little c-opera- 
tion on the part of those seniors and 
juniors who are only too willing to 
condemn in the face of things, might 
result in the creation of a new regime 
at Carnegie. Surely a remedy of some 
kind is possible. But it remains for 
the senior and junior classes to supply 
that remedy, however—not the sopho­
mores, who are as birds without wings. 
They have no power to remedy or to 
help themselves. M. B. M.
