The Tartan
Volume 81, Issue 15 _ Carnegie Mellon University February 3,1987
Photo Caption Contest See Features 
Tchaikovsky Competition Prize Winner David KimSee Diversions
Settlement Over Off-campus Housing Near
USC Economics Head Named H&SS Dean
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Staffwriter
After a decade of using "a rolling mix of 
buildings" for off-campus housing, Carnegie 
Mellon will relymoreso upon on-campus 
housing by the fall of 1989, according to 
Vice President of Business Affairs, Fred 
Rogers. In a meeting with RAs on January 
27th, Rogers announced that after "a year’s 
worth of negotiations" the University is 
"ready to sign on the dotted line with 
neighbors." The agreement would set a 
schedule for CMU to withdraw from 
Shadyside and Oakland housing to avoid a 
series of complex lawsuits. The immediate 
effect of this agreement would be the non­
renewal of the Devon Tower lease and the 
conversion of half of 601 Clyde Street to 
non-undergraduate housing.
Rogers gave the neighbors an ultimatum: 
"This week we've got to have an agreement." 
The Administration is under pressure to 
settle with the neighbors before room draw. 
The Housing Office must know which 
rooms will be available for next year. The 
negotiating committee hoped that the 
meeting with the RAs would expose any 
flaws in the plan that the committee had not 
anticipated.
The plan includes the construction of a new 
dorm by the fall of 1989. Located across 
from the Margaret Morrison Apartments, it 
will house 250 to 300 students and a dining 
facility open to all Hill dorm residents. The
Devon Tower, the most recent addition to University-owned housing, will 
not be available to undergraduate students through Housing next year.
new dorm will absorb all of the housing 
shortage caused by the loss of off-campus 
housing.
Until that dorm is finished, the transition 
years could be difficult for campus housing. 
Housing Director Anthony Martin described 
the loss that would occur between this 
semester and the next. By not renewing the 
one year lease at Devon, the University will 
lose 14 units that house 42 students, few of 
whom are seniors. The Housing Office will 
also lose 36 undergraduate spots at 601 
Clyde when it designates half of that 
building for graduate students. Martin is not
as concerned by this loss because 27 of 60 I s 
residents are seniors.
This week Martin will send letters to 
residents at both buildings. Devon Tower 
students will be informed that those spots 
will not be available next year. Clyde Street 
students will be surveyed to see if they 
intend to seek housing next year. In 
conjunction with these letters, housing will 
also hold a series of informal meetings with 
601 Clyde St residents.
To avoid a housing shortage next fall, the 
Administration will be strengthening the 
referral office. Students will be encouraged
to rent non-University apartments. Martin 
hopes that with a strong referral service, 
more students will attempt to live off- 
campus. The office will suggest how to 
look for the right apartment and will keep 
information on which landlords are reliable. 
Donner Hall RA Clem O'Donnell believes 
this is a positive move saying, "There will 
be an excellent reference and support service 
created for those who want to live off 
campus."
When asked who would most likely be 
affected by a housing shortage, Fred Rogers 
responded, "We hope we don't come to that." 
Martin added that he would be working hard 
to avoid such a crisis. After the meeting 
Housing Chairman Glen Metter of SDC, 
who served on the negotiating committee 
commented on the Administration's goals: 
"They want to throw out as few people as 
possible. They also have to guarantee to 
house freshmen. Who [would be thrown 
out]...that's to be decided."
Until University-sponsored, off-campus 
housing is eliminated there, Clyde Street 
residents will be asked to sign statements 
pledging to obey a 24-hour Quiet Living 
Area rule. Sarah Fay, an RA last year at 
601 Clyde, served on the committee and 
helped develop the Quiet Living Area rule. 
She found that students on Clyde were 
"basically forced to be under that anyway."
A court might find that CMU violated 
continued on page 4
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor
On June 1, Dr. Dennis Aigner will be 
instated as the permanent Dean of the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences. 
Recommended by a committee to President 
Richard Cyert and Vice President for 
Academic Affairs Pat Crecine last spring, 
Aigner will replace Acting-Dean John 
Modell.
Currently, Aigner is the Head of the 
Eonomics Department at the University of 
Southern California. After his undergraduate 
work at UCLA, Aigner completed his 
graduate work at the University of California 
at Berkeley where he received his Masters in 
statistics and his PhD in agricultural 
economics. He has "been looking at being 
a dean for five years."
The committee that recommended Aigner 
was chaired by Dr. Sara Kiesler of the Social 
Sciences department. Appointed by 
Crecine, it was composed of represtatives 
from each of H&SS's departments, persons 
from outside of the college, and students. 
According to Kiesler, after an international 
search, the committee developed a "short 
list" of six qualified individuals from both 
inside and outside the CMU community 
before it made its recommendation.
Kiesler offered seven reasons for Aigner's 
recommendation. One, he is a "very 
interesting and talented person." Two, he
has a "reputation as a conscientious 
manager...he is not just an authoritarian." 
And she said he is "very interested in 
education". Another point was his "ideas 
about how a college of humanities and social 
sciences could fit into a technological 
university." Kiesler was also "very 
impressed with his vision. He has a 
remarkable vision of the future." Sixth, "he 
understands budgets which is very important 
when working within a limited ecnomic 
framework." And finally, "he is a fine 
economist."
Although the search for a new dean was 
internal as well as external, Kiesler said she 
and most of the committee members 
"thought it was time to get someone with a 
new outlook."
Modell, a historian, has "no frustration by 
going back to being a faculty member. This 
[administration] is not what I'm good at- I 
am a good faculty member." Modell had 
been considered for the position of 
permaneant dean but he withdrew because he 
wanted to get back to teaching. Modell was 
also pleased with the new dean. "I've been 
fairly impressed. He has a proven track 
record in administration...he is not a 
conservative type who will stick to 
procedure."
Aigner is looking forward to his new 
position. Having become familiar with 
CMU after being considered for the dean of
GSIA, he called CMU "a very innovative 
place. The main challenge is a 'liberal arts 
college' imbedded in a high tech university." 
But he does not plan on making many 
changes at least right away. "The biggest 
change is permaneant rather than temporary 
leadership. Since 1981, the leadership has 
been unstable but it worked because of a 
strong departmental base." He would also
like to expand the graduate program.
"I plan to have a lot of student related 
activities and programs in the dean's office. 
For example, the office will be open to 
students on Friday afternoons just to talk. I 
want to get to know the students."
In addition to his admistrative duties, 
Aigner plans to teach a Core economics 
course next spring.
Dennis Aigner, the new Dean of H&SS, relaxes in his office

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—February 3,1987
Paul Simon Under Kremlin Might Free
Fire For "Graceland" Two Dissidents
Journalist Forced Out 
of China Over 
Student Protests
An American journalist has been hustled 
out of China without time to pack or say 
goodbye to his wife. Communist officials 
accuse Lawrence MacDonald of receiving 
intelligence data from a student. MacDonald, 
a writer for Agence France-Presse, denies the 
charge and says he's concerned about the 
student, who was reportedly arrested.
Phillipine Troops on 
Alert
Troops at the Philippines Air Base 
targeted in last week's coup attempt are on 
alert. The alert comes after neighbors said 
they heard gunfire apparently from inside the 
base. Officers at the gate refuse to say why 
the alert was called.
Ambassador Might 
Challenge Botha
South Africa's ambassador to Britain says 
he's resigned to "re-enter national life," but 
won't say if he'll run for Parliament. There 
are reports that David Worrell, who has 
resigned his ambassadorship, will challenge 
President P.W. Botha's party in upcoming 
elections. The Cape Times says Worrell is 
increasingly dissatisfied with the lack of 
concrete apartheid reforms.
Paul Simon is off to look for America, 
Europe and Africa amid controversey over 
his new "Graceland" album. The album has 
drawn fire from anti-apartheid activists 
because it features black South African 
musicians, despite a cultural boycott of the 
country. Simon says the African National 
Congress, a black guerilla group fighting to 
end apartheid, has dropped its criticism of 
him; however, there are reports that there 
may be demonstrating against the tour.
Waite Being Held 
Captive By Moslems 
In Lebanon
Diplomatic sources say Anglican Church 
envoy Terry Waite is safe, but is being held 
by militant Moslems is Lebanon. Waite has 
reportedly gotten tangled up in a political 
tug-of-war between the group Hezbollah and 
Druse leader Walid Jumblatt. Sources say 
Hezbollah is detaining Waite as a way of 
sending Jamblatt a pointed message. Waite 
hasn't been heard from directly in eleven 
days.
Congress Studies 
Israel's Cooperation 
in Iran-Contra Ordeal
Sources say members of Congress are 
talking with Israeli officials about how Israel 
will cooperate with five separate probes into 
the Iran-Contra matter. The sources say 
Israelis probably won't testify before 
investigators, but they might provide written 
testimony.
Healthful Mondays(Lunchtime Seminar Series)
BagakmchandcomeovertotheWherret Room to flsten to and participate with exciting speakers who wM talk about various health-reiatea topics I
Feb. 2. Exercise for the Winter Months 
9. Diet and Nutrition 
16. Back Massage for Back Problems 
Mar. 2. Want to quit? -Smoking 
9. Alcohol and Drugs - How little is too much?
16. Stress Management
(This lecture is in the balroom)
All Lectures: 11:30 -12:15
AW'
Û
Brought to you by Student Affnirs
Sources in the Soviet Union say the KGB 
has asked the wives of two jailed dissidents 
to file applications for their families to 
emigrate. The sources say there's the 
implication that the Kremlin is preparing to 
free the dissidents, but they say no one has 
promised that the men — Anatoly Koryagin 
and Sergei Khodorovich — will be released
soon.
president says the layoffs at its suburban 
headquarters will begin next week. A United 
spokesman adds there will be no salary 
increase for officers and management 
employees in 1987. The airline reported a 
fourth quarter loss of over $31 million and a 
loss for the year of over $80 million. The 
spokesman blamed the carrier's weak 
financial position primarily on "a great deal 
of fare discounting in the first half."
Reagan Vetoes Clean 
Water Bill
A clean water action project spokesman 
says President Reagan's veto of the clean 
water bill sends a message to "just say 
pollute." Reagan Friday vetoed the $20 
billion measure, but said he knew his veto 
would be overridden. Reagan says the 
measure is "loaded with waste." But 
lawmakers have overwhelmingly endorsed it.
United Airlines 
Announces Major 
Lay-offs
United Airlines is laying off over one- 
thousand workers, most of them in 
management positions, to combat the 
carrier’s financial losses in 1986. United's
USAir Threatens to 
Sue County Over 
New Terminal
PITTSBURGH — USAir Chairman Edwin 
Colodny is threatening to sue Allegheny 
County if county officials proceed with 
plans to build a $400 million terminal 
without the airline's approval. Last week, 
USAir broke off negotiations with the 
county over how much the airline will pay 
toward the terminal at Greater Pittsburgh 
International Airport. USAir operates about 
73% of the flights there and wants the 
county to be fully accountable for any cost 
overruns on the terminal. The county 
commissioners have refused to give that 
guarantee.
Volu me81,u IssoI1 5_81Coua 
_r ngo iuu_5MICoU v1ouu
Hey Seniors!
Have a beer on us!
The 2ndtoyM_1 FeIuu bIssa b_81
this Thursday, February 5 
Scotland Yard 
4:00 - 5:30pm 
Brought to you by the Senior Class Co-Chairs
f/ uitfi on/ fame /
-Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1987—The Tartan—Page 3
Crime and Incident Report 1/23 -1/28
Hall 4500 corridor, broken domestic water 
pipe. Water covered 4th floor lobby, 
poured down elevator shafts, damaging 
E&S Library. 3rd floor lobby carpet and 
ceiling tile soaked, CS terminal complex 
severely damaged.
1/26 11:42 am
running suit stolen 
Valued at $200.
THEFT Turquoise 
from gym locker.
Civic broken, Clarion stereo/cassette, amp 
and Pioneer speakers removed. Valued at 
$600.
1/27 9:32 am WATER LEAK Mellon
Institute; pipes broke in room 548, water 
leaked down to 1st floor. Extensive damage 
to conference room ceiling, east wall and 
floor. 1st floor not inspected because rooms 
contain radioactive material.
1/26 3:42 pm THEFT Doherty Apts. 1/28 8:28 pm THEFT Donner bathroom;
parking lot; passenger window of Honda gold face watch left in bathroom, gone when
owner returned.
Student Senate Proposes 
Definition of "Political”
1/23 2:08 pm CRIMINAL
MISCHIEF 4 white teenaged males 
found exiting MG parking lot. Security 
found cars near exit with rear windshield 
wipers twisted and pointing upwards.
1/23 9:57 pm PROWLING AT
NIGHT Student in MM Apts, woken 
up by sound of person attempting to enter 
apartment through window. Perpetrator 
fled when student got up to investigate.
1/23 11:22 pm SUSPICIOUS
PERSONS 4 black males harrassing 
people in Scotland Yard. Reportedly had 
been chased out of Scotland Yard last fall 
for stealing tips. Non-CMU students.
1/24 9:35 am VANDALISM Skibo;
4 upholstered chairs slashed with knife or 
razor and "Jon" written on wall in what 
appeared to be blood.
1/24 12:02 pm THEFT Kappa Sigma; 
hip length black leather coat with 
removable synthetic fur collar stolen. 
Valued at $200.
1/24 3:49 pm THEFT Kappa Sigma; 
short grey leather jacket with 2 pockets 
stolen. Valued at $165.
1/25 4:31 am THEFT Sigma Nu; waist 
length blue down ski jacket stolen. 
Valued at $130.
1/25 2:03 pm THEFT Sigma Nu;
khaki colored trench coat with calculator 
stolen. Total value $70.
1/25 2:11 pm WATER LEAK Wean
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
At last Tuesday’s meeting, Student Senate
- tabled an amendment to its constitution. 
This amendment, proposed by the Rules 
Committee, is a definition of a political 
organization. The need for a clear definition 
was generated by the recent controversy 
surrounding the funding of the Objectivist 
Club. The club's funding was revoked due 
to their apparent "political" nature. Tonight 
the general assembly will have a chance to 
discuss, alter, and vote cm the amendment.
The new amendment reads: "A political 
organization is defined as a group whose 
primary aim is political. Political is defined 
as (1) an espousal'of or action pertaining to 
specific philosophies, ideologies, or policies 
which are govermental or legal, (2) an 
espousal of or action pertaining to 
position(s) specific on public issues."
Along with the amendment will be added
the following note: "We believe that the 
purpose of the University is not for 
insulating students from ideas, but that the 
allocation of students' funds cannot be used 
to support specific political organizations or 
ideas. Student funds can be allocated for an 
open polictical forum."
In other business, Senate discussed 
Housing's plan to phase out student 
residency on Clyde Street; by 1990, there 
will be no more students on Clyde Street. 
The Academic Affairs Committee proposed 
to look into improving English scores for 
CIT/MCS students, and it also is going to 
look into 15-1 lx Intro to Computing’s book 
selling practices. Apparently, students are 
forced to buy software and packets from the 
Comp Sci Department to take the course.
The Recognition Committee proposed 
allocating $500 for Senate’s Happy Hour. 
The motion passed. Happy Hour will be on 
February 6 from 5:00-6:30 in Scotland Yard.
DeLeon Wins IFC Election
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
The Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) 
elected Fred DeLeon as its President on 
January 28, for a one year term. The IFC 
consists of an Executive Council, the 
President and IFC Representative from 
each fraternity and sorority, and other 
interested people. It meets twice every 
month to discuss pertinent Greek issues. 
Around 1,000 Carnegie Mellon students 
are members of IFC.
DeLeon is an Industrial Management 
major and Brother at Pi Kappa Alpha 
fraternity. He is also Student Senate 
Treasurer and a member of the Lacrosse 
Club.
As IFC President, DeLeon will lead IFC 
and Executive Council meetings, 
participate in Panhel and Council of 
coatiaued oa page 5
TVLL YOU NEED TO KNOW
ABOUT FINDING A 
SPECTACULAR APARTMENT 
FOR SEPTEMBER IS 
DARAN MANAGEMENT __ COMPANY
FORBES AT HALKET STREET 
681—9100

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—February 3,1987
Students Attack Reagan's Aid-Slashing Budget
WASHINGTON, D.C. (National Student 
News Service) - At least two national 
student organizations are taking actions to 
prevent passage of a 46 percent slash in 
federal student aid requested by President 
Reagan in his Jan. 5 budget proposal. The 
United States Student Association and the 
National Student Roundtable announced this 
week that they are sponsoring nationwide 
campaigns to encourage students to write or 
call their members of Congress in 
opposition to the proposed cuts. They also 
set dates in March for Student Lobby Days 
during which students will travel to 
Washington, D.C. to meet directly with
students, according to Preston.
* A request for $600 million to expand the 
"Income-Contingent Loan" program now 
being tested at ten colleges around the 
country. The ICL program, which raises 
borrowing limits while eliminating federally 
subsidized interest rates, is in Schmidt's 
view "a highly creative way to have the 
government invest less in education and 
make the students pay more."
* A 50% cut in funding for the TRIO 
program, which provides assistance for low- 
income and first-generation (those whose 
parents did not attend college) students to 
enroll and remain in college. USSA in
Senate educational committees and meeting 
with their delegates. USSA will take its turn 
March 13-16, with rallies and press 
conferences planned as well as intensive 
lobbying.
In the meantime, the student lobbies will 
work to convince key educational 
policymakers of the need for federal student 
aid — "educating the education officials," as 
Schmidt puts it — and study alternative 
budget proposals. In particular, Preston says 
USSA will look into the proposal put out 
each year by the Congressional Black
Caucus, which she characterizes 
"addressing human needs much more thf 
that of the President."
Even with a convincing show of student 
concern and a sympathetic Congress 
however, student leaders expect an uphill 
battle to secure government support in the 
face of the current $176 billion federal 
deficit. "It's going to take a lot of work from 
a lot of people," Preston says, "to make sure 
that we don't turn away from programs f0r 
which there is an established need, and from 
which the entire country benefits."
“It's pretty hard to believe that they would have the guts to propose this kind of budget...
Judy Resnick Scholarship 
Not Awarded This Year
»
legislators.
"It's pretty hard to believe that they would 
have the guts to propose this kind of budget 
again," says NSR Associate Director Jim 
Schmidt. "We are shocked at the scope of 
these cuts." USSA Legislative Director 
Mary Preston adds, "The administration is 
trying to absolve government of its 
responsibility to provide equal access to 
education." Among the proposals targeted for 
action are:
* A two-thirds cut in funding for the 
federally subsidized Guaranteed Student Loan 
program, from $3 billion to $1 billion. 
GSLs are "indispensible to the majority of 
students," says Schmidt. "For most of them, 
going to college is contingent upon getting 
one."
* A complete phase-out of the federally 
subsidized National Direct Student Loan and 
work-study programs, moves which would 
cause the loss of jobs and tuition for needy
particular has championed TRIO. "We 
cannot let the Department of Education 
neglect this kind of need-based program," 
says Preston.
While Washington insiders give the 
administration proposals no better than even 
odds of passing the Democratic-controlled 
Congress, student leaders aren't hedging their 
bets. USSA and NSR have sent out alerts to 
their members detailing the depth and breadth 
of the proposed cuts and urging them to call 
or write their senators and representatives in 
protest. "Grassroots lobbying is of utmost 
importance," says Schmidt. "It's still the 
most effective way to get your point across 
in Congress."
In addition, both groups have scheduled 
major conferences and lobbying days in 
Washington in March, with each expecting a 
turnout of several, hundred students. NSR 
members will fire off the opening salvos 
March 6-10, testifying before House and
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Questions about why the Judy Resnick 
Scholarship, created by Carnegie Mellon last 
January, was not given out this year have 
recently surfaced on campus. The scholarship 
was established in memorium of the alumna 
who perished along with the rest of the crew 
on board the Space Shuttle Challenger when 
it exploded.
Set up through the Office of Development, 
the criterion for recipients was that they be 
outstanding female electrical engineers. The 
financial aid office was to choose recipients 
based on academic record, extra-curricular 
activities, and financial need.
Recently, a controversy arose because no 
one received the funds following the 
scholarship's announcement in 1986. Walter 
Cathie, of the Financial Aid Office, said this 
occurred primarily because there were very 
few donations until late last year, and 
financial awards are decided during the 
summer before the academic year.
Other conflicts occurred because 
outstanding female electrical engineers are 
generally financially awarded through private
The Original Hot Dog Shop
Sun - Thurs 9 am - 4:30 am|—-------- --------------------------------------------__EL'^_Sat_T5_am_-_4xun._.___
~ Cheeseburger Platter
includes: Cheeseburger, Fries
30* oil
Soup of the Day
3 varieties of soup to choose from
_rro1 o3sM1ou 9o,7 PhpPSTc
and Small Coke
only $299
_rro1 o3sM1ou 9o,7 PhpPSTc
Need a break from campus 
food? Casual atmosphere, late 
night dining, and friendly 
service have established the 
Harris Grill Cafe as a tradition 
with area students. Warm up 
your winter with our authentic 
and reasonably priced Greek
cuisine.
. >
5747 Ellsworth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
363-0833 (Takeout)
for research, term papers or relaxation, 
the "purr-fed" answer Is...
The Literary Cat Bookstore 
used books for the finicky reader
1505 A »bury Place 
Sq. Hill 13217 
422-0280
corporations such as General Motors, who 
pay full tuition. The state has certain laws 
placing a ceiling on the total amount of aid a 
student may receive. "If students receive 
more than this amount, the money must be 
returned to the company or the state."
Cathie said that the Judy Resnick 
Scholarship will definitely be awarded for the 
1987-88 academic year following a decision 
this summer.
F_yC1I5C nIeku F_yCMy8o
By JEAN COOKSEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Local 29 union members voted to reject the 
contract offered by Carnegie Mellon last 
Monday, January 19, by a unanimous 
decision of 120 - 0. The contract was the 
second offered to the union during the three- 
month negotiation process that began last 
October.
Ralph Terry, spokesperson for the union, 
stated that "there are still some outstanding 
issues that need to be addressed" before a 
settlement can be reached. He added that the 
union members have not pressed for a I 
deadline or threatened to strike.
Lisa Wiedman, spokesperson for the 
university, commented that, in the event of a 
strike, the university would have "back-up 
measures in place" to serve the university 
community, but that "we don't foresee a 
problem of that kind" in the near future.
The contract affects roughly 130 
Physical Plant and Dining Service 
employees. While negotiations continue, 
the union members are working under the 
conditions of the previous contract.
Both Wiedman and Terry stressed that 
negotiations are continuing, although no 
meetings are scheduled. They refused to 
comment on particulars, stating that it 
would not be in the best interest of either the 
university or the union. Neither side has 
requested bringing in an arbitrator to aid in 
negotiating at this time.
zrrW5IDs8u 
b_8uMyd FgIydou
continued from page 1
zoning laws by housing students so far from 
campus. If an injunction were granted, the 
landlords of those buildings vacated by the 
University would be free to lease the space 
to students. CMU Security would have no 
authority and the Administration no 
responsiblity ovep student's actions there. 
Zoning codes treat individuals and 
institutions differently.
"I don't think it's a great chance that some 
court will order us to get out of all off- 
campus housing." Rogers antipicates that 
worst possible case, community 
organizations getting an injunction against 
all off-campus housing, is unlikely. He 
feels that the agreement worked out is a 
very good compromise from everyone s 
point of view."

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1987—The Tartan—page 5
More Changes in Buggy:Design Stressed
designed," Rinderie saidBy KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Another change has been made in buggy 
procedures: The Sweepstakes Committee 
announced that every buggy entered in the 
Sweepstakes races must also be displayed in 
the Design Competition. Judges will 
evaluate one buggy from every 
organization's fleet Since 1920, every 
organization displayed one buggy in the 
Design Competition, and only that buggy 
was evaluated
The Design Competition, held annually on 
the day before Sweepstakes, encourages 
organizations to design beautiful buggies 
that meet safety requirements and operate 
efficiently. Buggies receiving a Design 
trophy must place in the top half of 
Sweepstakes.
"In the past, only a handful of students 
looked at the buggies on display at the 
Design Competition. Only a few 
organizations really competed for the Design 
trophy," said Trish DiMarco, Assistant 
Sweepstakes Chairman.
"We want to create more excitement this 
year and pull in a larger crowd. Of course, 
well rope off the buggies so observers don't 
get too close. It will be like a car show,"
said Shawn Stufft, Sweepstakes Chairman.
A team of three or four Carnegie Mellon 
faculty evaluate the buggies. Buggy 
Chairmen will vote in March whether to 
accept judges nominated by the Sweepstakes 
Committee. "We [Buggy Chairmen] have 
always had a say in who judges. That's 
important. We've had really good professors 
judge," said Gregg Retko, Pi Lambda Phi's 
1987 Push Captain and Buggy Chairman in 
1985 and 1986.
"A well-designed buggy reflects the overall 
concern of these particular living groups 
[that enter Sweepstakes],” said Dr. James 
Rinderie, a Mechanical Engineering 
Professor who is very interested in design, 
and a judge for the 1984 and 1986 Design 
Competitions. "The best-looking buggy 
doesn’t always win. Organizations work 
with different constraints. A nice design 
can’t be bought with a large budget"
Buggies are displayed in the Thistle Gym 
and privately judged in a nearby room.
Representatives from every organization 
present their buggy for ten minutes. Then 
judges ask questions for up to five minutes. 
"We [judges] snoop around inside the buggy. 
I comment and ask questions about certain 
features, including features that are poorly
Last year, judges awarded every buggy with 
numeric values in three categories: a limit 
of 60 points for Engineering, a limit of 20 
points for Overall Design, and a limit of 20 
points for Overall Craftsmanship and 
Appearance. Within the Engineering 
category, judges awarded a limit of 30 points 
for engineering concepts and a limit of 30 
points for how well they functioned. Judges 
considered the Chassis/Frame/Body,
Steering, Suspension, Driver occupancy and 
Safety sections.
"It is inappropriate to drop the lowest and 
highest score, as the Sweepstakes 
Committee did last year," Rinderie said. 
"Every judge works around a different 
criteria. For example, I may have 
conistently given the lowest score to every 
buggy."
Judges select the top six buggies and 
continued on page 6
photo by lack Poller
The Sweepstakes Design Competition this year will extend to all buggies 
entered in the race, creating more competition for the Delt's Crisis
DeLeon Becomes New IFC President
continued from page 3
Fraternity Presidents (CFP) meetings, and 
select appointed officers with the Executive 
Council. He will also devote much of his 
time to working individually with Greeks, 
Greek Advisor Ron Campana and University 
Administrators.
"My role is to understand and represent the 
needs of fraternities and sororities within the 
IFC and to the University," said DeLeon. "I 
will stand up for what we want"
DeLeon's previous offices prepare him for 
the new responsibilities. He became a 
liason between Student Senate and EFC when 
he was appointed IFC representative to 
Student Government for the 1985-1986 
term. A term as Pi Kappa Alpha's Treasurer 
during 1986 piqued his interest in finances.
"As Treasurer, I became more aware of how 
funds are used," said DeLeon. "That's when 
I really started working with people in 
Student Affairs and other administrators."
He was elected Vice President of Pi Kappa 
Alpha for the March-October 1986 term, and 
EFC Treasurer and Student Senate Treasurer 
for the 1986-1987 terms.
"Good IFC meetings are crucial for Greek 
unity. I haven't run an EFC meeting yet, but 
I want them to go smoothly so people feel 
relaxed and want to talk. People shouldn't 
feel like they tiave to go.'" DeLeon said
"I think we've gained respect over the past 
year. We checked up on ourselves during 
Rush. We were responsible when we should 
be responsible," DeLeon said. "Many 
Greeks are campus leaders and athletes. A 
Greek organization is more than a social 
outlet. There's a sense of pride not like a 
club. It’s a brotherhood and sisterhood."
This week, DeLeon will work with the 
IFC Executive Council to interview 
candidates for IFC appointed offices. The 
newly-elected Executive Council consists of 
Jordan Aberman, Executive Vice President 
and CFP President, a yet to be elected 
Panhel President who will serve as 
Administrative Vice President, Chrissi 
Haretos, Treasurer, and Marc Phillips, 
Secretary. The Executive Council meets 
periodically.
DeLeon remains modest about his new 
position. "I am very concerned about my 
credibility. I apologize if any of this 
[interview] comes across wrong."
SPRING SCIHEST, 
ON-irnim/s 
UXKHEEP.
Meet America’s _Top-rated Aerospace Employer.
Talk with our representatives about why in 1985 The Almanac of American Employers rated Lockheed second overall among America’s largest successful companies. Tbps among aerospace firms. And talk about career opportunities at Lockheed. And about our famed “Skunk Works” facility where we developed the SR-71 Blackbird, an aircraft so advanced, it’s still the world’s fastest, highest flying airplane in sustained flight.
Just sign up in your placement office and mark these dates on your calendar:
Presentation — February 12 
Interviews — February 13
You’ll see why we’re a company with a remarkable history. And a future as prom­ising as your own.Lockheed is an equal opportunity, affir­mative action employer. U.S. citizenship 
is required.'^¿Lockheed Califomia Company ly
G^vfoçi i/top# to kfyioçjtficition
SKUNK WORKS and the skunk design are registered service marks of the Lockheed Corporation. © 1987 Lockheed Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—February 3,1987
By USA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Phyllis Schlafly, one of the foremost 
opponents to the ERA, lectured at Carnegie 
Mellon last Wednesday on her views on the 
"Relationships of The and Women in the 
1980's." She based her discussion on the 
roles of women throughout the world and the 
history of American society, drawing upon 
economic facts of the United States to prove 
her points.
Beginning her discussion by praising the 
quality and longevity of the U.S. 
Constitution and reminding her listeners 
how "lucky they were to live in the United 
States," Schlafly went on to mention the 
United Nations' sponsored meeting that took 
place in Kenya last year, drawing feminists 
from all over the world together to discuss 
the differing problems facing women in their 
own countries. She pointed out the good 
fortune of American women whose lives, as 
she perceives it, are far superior to the 
lifestyles of African, Soviet, Chinese, and 
Moslem women, citing the intelligence of 
not holding the meeting in the U.S. since 
women visiting from other countries 
"...would have thought they died and went to 
heaven."
Schlafly listed the many conveniences that 
American women have access to and the 
prosperity of the U.S. which she feels 
resulted from the common market. After a 
brief review of the improving position of 
women from the pioneering days of early 
America, she quickly moved into a 
discussion of American life in the twentieth 
century. She said that unlike the rest of the 
world, the average family in the U.S. lives 
better than most people in the rest of the 
world, largely as a result of the free 
economic system existing in this country.
When Schlafly's history reached the 1960’s 
and early 1970's she referred to "...two fads 
that swept across the country," citing 
women's liberation and the sexual 
revolution. According to her, the women's 
liberation movement told women that they 
should be liberated from "...home, husband, 
family, and children."
As she sees it, the movement had four 
main goals: easy no-fault divorce, abortion 
on demand, careers as a means of self- 
fulfillment, and the Equal Rights 
Amendment. The movement saw their first 
three aims reached. Schlafly reminded 
listeners that after a 10-year fight, on June 
30, 1982, the ERA was defeated. She 
credited the defeat of the amendment to a 
rejection by the American people of the 
ideology behind the bill, the concept that 
there are no other differences between men 
and women except the obvious physical 
ones.
However, Schlafly disclaimed this ideology 
pointing out the greater frequency of color­
blindness in men, the average six inch 
height difference between the sexes, the 
greater frequency of automobile accidents by 
males, and the "longer lifespan of men" 
[sic]. She said that "...people didn’t see why 
there should be a constitutional mandate to 
pretend that those differences aren't there," 
and she went on to compare the current 
status of ERA to that erf prohibition.
Schlafly proceeded to examine the new 
goal of "comparable worth" under which she 
believes wages should be set "..by a 
government functionary who will look into 
a crystal ball and determine what positions 
are worth and then force an employer to pay 
those wages." She feels the proponents of 
this legislation are unfairly biased towards 
white collar jobs, finding the worth of these
New Sweepstakes Rules Focus on Buggy Design
continued from page 5 
compare them. "We run back-and-forth 
between the buggies and compare features, 
such as bearings and steering mechanisms," 
Rinderie said. "Last year there was not a lot 
of divergence in 5gMC opinions. One judge 
reversed the buggies in position three and 
four. This does not happen when judges 
have very different philosophies."
Rinderie described the competitors in this 
way: "Overall, the buggy quality is good. 
Budgets and hours of work vary greatly. A 
problem with some buggies is that some 
work is wasteful. For example, important 
design features may be marginal, yet high- 
quality bolts are used for the buggy cover."
"Now that we must display our buggies,
we won't have as long to prepare for the 
races as in other years," said Doug Sargent, 
Beta Theta Pi's Buggy Co-Chairman. "A 
buggy we display may roll good, but not 
look as good as if we had more time to work 
on it - especially with outfitting buggies for 
the new safety regulations. The new Design 
Competition should be postponed until next 
year."
"It's good public relations," said Dino 
Chiesa, Delta Upsilon fraternity Buggy 
Chairman, "though it will take out a lot of 
our time to prepare buggies for the races." 
Brian Albrecht, President of Delta Tau Delta 
fraternity and Assistant Buggy Chairman, 
agreed and suggested, "there could be a better 
place to display the buggies than in the 
gym."
Tartan Reader Survey Results
Results according to the surveys that 
appeared in our 1/20 issue:
Comics was by far the preferred section 
of the Tartan (specifically Bloom County). 
Features came in second, and News, Op-Ed 
and Ads tied for third. Entertainment 
ranked fourth and Sports finished last 
Quality of writing overall was not very 
good. Layout and content scored better.
You told us you wanted to see more: 
investigative reporting, news on the 
administration, record reviews, detail on 
IM standings (major and minor), 
substantial and intelligent editorials, and 
controversial topics; and less: Greek news, 
petty gripes in editorials, and hype over 
crime & incident. Suggestions for 
improvement included: more comics, 
reviews of restaurants and other places to 
go, less Joe Bob, better coverage of 
University projects, and more pushing for
student needs. Also mentioned was the 
need for more staff and organization.
The staff of The Tartan thanks all of 
those who participated for offering their 
time and insight. Remember, we are here 
to serve your needs: your comments and 
criticisms are always welcome.
We also accept staff members throughout 
the year. Anyone interested in joining 
The Tartan is encouraged to attend staff 
meetings (times listed below).
Features Mondays @ 4:00 
News Mondays <® 6:30 
Photography Mondays @ 7:30 
Art Tuesdays @ 7:00 
Entertainment Tuesdays @ 8:00
Positions are also available in Sports, 
Production, Typesetting and Copy 
Proofing. Please call x2111 for more 
information.
Phyllis Schlafly brought her personal philosophies of modern women and 
their roles to the Skibo ballroom last Wednesday night
positions greater than blue collar jobs, 
because women hold mostly white collar 
positions. She dismissed this concept by 
stating that nobody will ever be paid what 
they think they are worth because of the free 
economic system in this country that sets 
wages independently of a goverment 
decision.
In discussing the sexual liberation 
movement Schlafly saw its beginnings 
between 1966-1968 when "...the Supreme 
Court handed down 26 cases turning loose 
all the smut peddlars, the pornography 
peddlars who had been convicted by local 
juries." She said pornography, today an $8 
billion industry, uses women as playthings 
for the enjoyment of men.
Schlafly said that the problem with sexual 
liberation, is that it is not equal. "Women 
just pay a price that is twice as high," citing 
pregnancy, abortion, contraception risks, and 
the emotional and psychological 
consequences of free sex. She said that 
studies now point to the no-fault divorce, so 
popular because it would allow sexual 
liberation, as the principle cause of women 
living in poverty today.
These two "fads”, according to Schlafly, are 
currenuy undergoing a re-examination by the 
media, who she said, are very pro-feminist. 
She attributed this review to the ten year age 
difference among women active in the 
movement who saw the world a different 
way when they were 25 than they do now at 
the age of 35.
According to Schlafly, a large number of 
the women who chose to pursue a career 
over marriage and children may now regret 
their
decisions. She cited publications such as 
Newsweek and the New York Times 
Magazine as containing articles which 
questioned many of the feminist decisions 
that were made during the past two decades. 
She said there are many successful career 
women but that 52 percent of them are 
divorced or unmarried.
Schlafly said today's college women have 
many choices to make and they should be 
aware of the consequences of these decisions, 
citing salary differences upon graduation 
between female electrical engineers and 
liberal arts majors as one of the important
not to have false expectations and claim 
discrimination if one chose a career that did 
not pay as well as some others.
Quoting a book called, Success and 
Betrayal: Crisis of Women in Corporate
America, Schlafly said one of the principle 
problems of young women today, is their 
high expectations. She outlined three of the 
myths that the book states young women in 
corporate America hold: Merit is rewarded in 
corporate America, the belief that they are 
irreplaceable, and the belief that the 
corporation offers an opportunity for 
recognition.
Schlafly said that the road to career success 
will always include hard work. She stated 
the importance of determining whether the 
career is the "be-all and end-all" of life, and 
realizing that the biological clock ticks on.
Unfortunately, the ideology of feminism 
and the lifestyle of sexual liberation 
dominate the media world and colleges, 
creating an unreal, fantasy world, said 
Schlafly. She said women can have it all, 
but must work for it pay the price, and not 
demand it all at the same time. Citing 
examples such as Cory Aquino, Margaret 
Thatcher, Jean Kirkpatrick, and herself, she 
recommended a pattern of getting an 
education, a short start on a career, raising a 
family, and then re-entering the workforce.
The traditional family with a mother 
devoting full-time to her family does exist, 
said Schlafly. 77% of the people married 
today have never been divorced.
Reiterating the good fortune of living in 
America where people are free to make these 
choices within a free economic system, 
Schlafly concluded her lecture with a 
personal anecdote illustrating the 
possibilities available in the U.S. society.
Following her speech, Schlafly took 
questions from the floor. Questions 
concerning her views about divorce and ERA 
were most common, and this concluding 
period contained a great deal of controversy 
over Schlafly's conservative views.
Schlafly, who earned her bachelor's degree 
in Political Science from Washington 
University in St. Louis and her Master's 
from Harvard, is married and the mother of 6 
children. She attended law school and earned 
her degree after turning 50, although she
Schlafly takes questions from the floor on feminism, abortion 
feasibility of SDI
pnuu) oy ivuo munuiulv
and the
Schlafly Talks about KoeICM_yugMyu My Cgs 2rCfu

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

/UMC_1MIe
Senate: Preserve the Status Quo, Don't Fund Political Organizations
According to the Bylaws of Student government, 
"only non-academic, non-political, and non-religious 
organizations" may receive Senate funding. This 
clause has spurred two separate controversies. One 
focus of the controversy is whether or not Student 
Senate should fund political organizations. The 
second is how Senate should define political and 
political organizations.
The recent Senate decision to withdraw funding for 
the Objectivist Gub threw the problem of funding 
political organizations into high relief. The 
Objectivists' funding was withdrawn on the basis 
that the Club is too political.
Senators should all vote a resounding "no" to the 
funding of political groups. The activities fee should 
not be used to fund a club which supports a political 
candidate or expounds a specific political view. If the 
previously quoted clause is removed from the 
Bylaws, Senate will no longer have a pat reason to 
reject funding requests from political groups that may 
be objectionable, like neo-nazis, or groups that 
support a candidate.
Nonetheless, students should be encouraged to 
bring films and lecturers to campus for educational 
purposes. Student Senate should maintain the current 
system whereby political groups do not receive 
general funding, but can get funds to sponsor an 
event. Under this system, the College Republicans, 
for instance, can apply for a special allocation to 
bring in a speaker. The approval for funding would 
then be subject to the discretion of our elected 
representatives.
Senators cannot make a responsible decision about 
the first question until they grapple with the question 
of the definition of political. Furthermore, whatever 
decision they made could not be effectively 
implemented withouta clear sense of what constitutes 
political. The Senate Rules Committee, chaired by 
Allen Greenberg, proposed a definition which would 
give criteria with which to screen out student 
organizations that are political and therefore ineligible 
for funding.
According to this proposed amendment, "political 
is defined as (1) an espousal of or action pertaining to 
specific philosophies, ideologies or policies which 
are govemmentla or legal, (2) an espousal of or 
action pertaining to specific position(s) on public 
issues." A political organization is one "whose 
primary aim is political."
While better than nothing at all, this definition is 
inadequate. The definition suggests the necessary 
distinction between an action designed to educate and 
one designed to further or propagate a specific view.
The problem with the stated definition rests in the 
definition of a political organization, which says only 
that the "primary aim" must be political for the group 
to be ineligible for funding. This definition provides 
a loophole for clubs that pursue political goals as a 
secondary or tertiary aim. What if the sewing club 
mostly just aims to make patchwork quilts, but also 
uses its funding to support Pat Robertson's 
presidential campaign on the side? This would be 
clearly unacceptable.
Senate needs to decide upon an amendment to the 
Constitution or Bylaws that will define political and 
political organizations. Senate should then use this 
definition as a basis for refusing funding to student 
organizations that fall within that category. The 
funding of occasional events sponsored by these 
groups represents the best means to educate the 
campus without squandering the activities fee on 
inappropriate ends.
Letters:Design Department Deserves More Space, More Respect
Editor:
Design is everywhere. We read 
posters, labels and packages that 
are designed. We use designed 
telephones, cars, and appliances. 
Unfortunately, design is not a 
commonly used word, on this 
campus or in the outside world. I 
can honestly admit that before I 
applied to this University, I did not 
even know what design was.
It is also unfortunate that the 
humbleness of the Design 
department has influenced the 
amount of money the Unversity 
funds us and the amount of space 
we receive. For those of you who 
are unaware, we have a very good 
department. We employ some quite 
well-established faculty who are 
not only fabulous teachers but who 
also manage their own businesses 
successfully. It seems a shame that 
such a good department with 
talented students who pay their 
share of tuition should conduct 
classes in the University's
hallways.
It is important to understand that 
the method of learning in the arts 
is quite different from the ordinary 
classroom situation. In Design, we 
purchase fewer text books, more 
supplies, and have longer class 
times. The emphasis is placed on 
learning by doing and later
discussing our work during group 
critiques and presentations. We
require larger spaces and more
equipment than most departments.
In the past three years, I have 
seen the amount of Design's 
classroom and studio space
significantly reduced. Our freshmen 
and sophomore studios were 
donated to Psychology. Our 
computer-aided design lab removed 
from our department, our 
photography, meeting, and storage 
space taken by Computational 
Linguistics. Our freshmen now 
meet in C.F.A. where they are 
denied their own desks and storage 
space and have little contact, if 
any, with the upperclassmen in 
their department. The Design 
rotunda, which is still ours, is used 
as storage, meeting, and as a 
classroom space for freshmen 
sculpture students. Our 
photography labs are barely 
functioning, and I would not 
consider the darkrooms dark. It 
becomes difficult to produce 
quality work when the facilities are 
not updated. With as little spaces 
as we have now, the University 
plans to give us less space when
we relocate in 1989. If you might 
be looking for the Design 
department, we are loacted on the 
third floor of Baker, the first floor 
of Baker, the basement of Porter, 
and the third floor of C.F.A. How 
can such a space-divided department 
communicate?
With all of these set backs, how 
can we continue to be such a good 
department? In the past three years, 
Design has handled projects for 
such companies as Universal 
Rundle, Borg Warner, General 
Electric, Burroughs, Warner 
Lambert, and Sandoz. Recent 
Alumni brought $8,000 to Design 
when they won first place in a 
G.E. Plastics competition. 
Another received the Industrial 
Design Excellence Award for her 
robotic designs, and this year's 
juniors are having prototypes made 
of their lighting designs for future 
continued on page 9
-u Cgo z,Ao5CM0MuC Fe8, I s_eMCM5Ie _1dIyM*ICM_yN
Editor:
This letter is in reply to two 
letters that appeared in the Editorial 
Section on January 27 regarding 
the Objectivist Club. I would like 
to address points brought up by 
Senator Greenberg and Mr. Crary. 
First of all, I agree with Senator 
Greenberg's assertion that there 
should be no funding of political 
organizations (even if he calls such 
an assertion into question). Despite 
Mr. Crary's entreaties for "healthy" 
controversy the university should
allow —but in no way support or 
sanction— any political 
organization. One follows the 
modicum of free speech either by 
supporting (financially or 
otherwise) all who speak or 
supporting none who speak, yet in 
either case allowing the right to 
speak. It is the latter choice that is 
most practical for a university.
However, Senator Greenberg 
further claims that "the Objectivist 
philosophy is founded under 
continued on p«** 9

---------------------------------------------------

February 3,1987—The Tart— Page 9
Letters Coni
C-MAP Participant Defends, Explains Purpose of Program
Editor:
It is often comical how stupidity manifests 
itself. I am directly referring to the letter 
entitled "Student Examines Racism, C- 
MAP" published in the January 20th issue 
of the Tartan. As a black C-MAP 
participant, I find that it is my duty to clear 
up the misunderstandings that have occured 
as a result of this misinformation.
C-MAP, or properly titled the Carnegie 
Mellon Action Project, originated in 1968. 
The project was designed to assist the 
university in the recruitment and retention of 
minority students, who, because of cultural 
variations which tend to impede the 
performance of many minority students at 
white universities, may have a difficult time 
succeeding at Carnegie Mellon. Many of 
these students, particularly those from 
disadvantaged backgrounds may find it 
difficult to matriculate successfully. The 
reader should keep in mind that some 
minority students come from affluent
backgrounds, private schools, parents who 
are doctors, physicists, college professors, 
corporate managers, etc. Minorities choose 
to be in C-MAP because we share common 
experiences, we are treated like human 
beings, people with goals, people with 
objectives, people with abilities, which is 
not always found in the University at large. 
This surely does not mean that minorities 
are particularly slower nor less motivated. It 
means that doing this well may take more 
effort because of the higher expectations at 
the university level.
The Carnegie Mellon Action Project is not 
a summer camp. Information concerning this 
can be found in the C-MAP Complex which 
is on the fourth floor of the Margaret 
Morrison Building. This complex houses 
trained personnel whose primary concern at 
CMU is the special needs of Carnegie 
Mellon's minority students. There is a 
Director, an Assistant Director, a Counselor, 
a Physics Instructor, a Recruiter, a Tutor
Philosophy Club Argues That Objectivists Are Not Political
continued from page 8
specific political pretenses" and he wonders 
"how the organization can claim to be 
anything but political." This blanket 
generalization should stand as proof enough 
that the Senate acted wrongly, because it is 
in this statement that Senator Greenberg 
reveals his ignorance of the organization and 
the philosophy it supports. While it is true 
that Ayn Rand (founder of Objectivism) 
makes capitalism one of the main thrusts of 
her argument, one must bear in mind that 
capitalism is an economic philosophy, not a 
political one. Furthermore, economic 
theorizing does not constitute the entirety of 
the philosophy. Can Senator Greenberg cite 
any of her arguments regarding 
epistemology, or aesthetics, or education, or 
ethics? Are these overtly "political" too? As 
a counter example to Senator Greenberg’s 
argument, I suggest the following: Suppose 
there were 200 students who decided to form 
a Sons of Plato club, an organization 
devoted to examining the teachings of Plato. 
Ah, but Plato wrote The Republic, did he 
not? And was this not an overtly political 
work in which philosopher-kings rule the 
State? And would funding be denied to the 
Sons of Plato, even if the political 
philosophy entailed in the The Republic
was not actively pursued? By Senator 
Greenberg's agrument funding would be 
denied, as the organization has elements of 
political philosophy within it, and this I 
claim would be a mistake. Were the Sons of 
Plato devoted to spreading the merits of a 
government based on The Republic the 
Senate would be justified in refusing 
funding. However, if the purpose of the club 
is to discuss Plato's philosophy in general 
(political philosophies and otherwise), I 
believe a refusal to fund by Senate would be 
unjustified.
Mr. Crary, between attempts to snipe at 
what he feels are the tenets of the 
philosophy, claims to make the case that the 
Objectivists are indeed activists. Were he 
able to do this, then Senator Greenberg 
might have a point. As it turns out, there is 
no such case to be made. "Brian Crago 
enjoyed a chance ...to lambast a 
philanthropist in the Pitt News..." How does 
this one event constitute activism? It seems 
that the word "opinion" would be a more 
appropriate description, or perhaps even 
"violent, flaming rhetoric". Furthermore, Mr 
Crary claims that the Objectivists shouldn't 
even be dealing with the money in the first 
place (presumably based on their 
philosophy). And why should they not? It
is their money as Activities Fee-paying 
students. The connection attempted is to 
equate the fee with governmental taxes. Is 
this a fair equation? This is an argument that 
Mr. Crary should develop further if he 
wishes to substantiate his claim regarding 
Objectivists and the Activities Fee.
I make no claims to be an Objectivist; far 
from it. Rather, I see this case as one being 
argued on the efficacy and validity of 
Objectivism as a philosophical system, 
which shouldn't be the point. The 
Objectivist Club is not a political 
organization, nor is it the right-wing 
"ideological opposite" of the Democratic 
Socialists of America. It is a club devoted to 
the examination and support of the 
philosophy of Objectivism.
Thomas Menner 
President 
CMU Philosophy Club
Colin Rafferty 
Treasurer 
CMU Philosophy Club
Gerry Rutledge 
Secretary 
CMU Philosophy Club
Gay Kahkonen 
Vice-President-Elect
CMU Philosphy ClubDesign Dept. Woes
manufacturing. Last year, a graphic design 
sophomore won third place in the 
International Typeface Corporation's 
competition, which involved students from 
seventy-one countries around the world. Yet, 
when the University decided to adopt a new 
logo, the Design department wasn't even 
consulted.
The point of this letter was to make the 
campus and administration a little more 
aware of the Design department's existence. 
President Cyert recently asked a member of 
our faculty what the Design department was. 
Design brings no million-dollar research 
grants to this University, and we have no 
wealthy alumni. All we are asking for is the 
space we need to function as a department 
and the respect we deserve.
Linda Simonin 
Industrial Design 
Industrial Designers Society of 
America
Coordinator, an Administrative Assistant, 
and a Secretary. In addition there are also 
specialized tutors who help students with 
school work. The staff works closely with 
Warner Hall, though they are not university 
funded, and makes sure that the specialized 
needs of the C-MAP students are taken into 
consideration.
The C-MAP Summer is a five week 
program designed to assist students in 
making the transition to the rigorous first 
year at Carnegie Mellon University. The 
program offers that student a sampling of 
courses which closely relate to the courses 
that he will receive in the first year.
In addition to these courses the student 
attends problem solving workshops and
seminars helping them learn to utilize key 
campus resources. Students also attend 
personal development sessions. Carnegie 
Mellon Action Project's rigorous summer 
program is very beneficial for the minority 
student planning to attend Carnegie Mellon. 
These courses may have been described by 
the students in question as torture but will 
no doubt be described by these same students 
as an accurate identification of academic life.
In the future I should hope that if there is a 
discrepancy about any University element 
one would check the validity of ones 
conclusions with the entity that is at issue, 
before one resorts to writing 
misinformation.
Laurie Jackson
Grad Student Defends Meese Commission and Censorship
Editor:
I read Mr. Poller's column "Meese's 
censorship movement sees 52 books 
purged", in the January 13th issue of The 
Tartan.. I found it illogical and smacking of 
sectarianism.
Mr. Poller started out speaking about 
certain promotion by a large bookstore 
chain, to pass on to Playboy, and finish 
with Edward Meese, all of it in the most 
chaotic manner. There was no proof -nor 
logical connection- stating that Meese had 
anything to do with the books, or with their 
censorship. I guess if there had been more 
space, Mr. Poller would have thrown in Iran 
and the Contras as well.
I am very curious to know what the term 
"challenged book" means to Mr. Poller. 
Unfortunately, I found no clue in the column 
and the accompanying list. Probably, a bad 
review in the newspaper? The list was 
revealing, though, containing at the same 
time masterpieces such as The Merchant of 
Venice , and manifest pieces of garbage such 
as Love is one of the Choices. No comment.
Censorship is not new, it has been here 
since man is man. In fact, the worst censor 
always is... the editor! (I apologize, dear 
editor). You only have to look down to the 
bottom of this or the next page, to realize 
the fact, it reads: "The Tartan reserves the
right to condense or reject any letter or 
column." One would be closer to reality 
saying that that "freedom", of which Mr. 
Poller so emphatically writes, is not the 
author's freedom, but the editor’s.
We see thus that commercial goals often 
prevail over cultural criteria - many times 
over the most elementary sense of taste. If 
you have read regularly Playboy or 
Penthouse, you know how you need it from 
time to time, to keep going. The effects of 
pornography are very similar to those of 
drugs, they create dependency. Since drugs 
are regulated -even prohibited-, why not 
those "specialty" publications?
Playboy is not concerned about die books 
in the list, nor an alleged freedom of speech, 
but its easy-earned, secure cash flow, made 
by exploiting one of the least rational 
passions of many human beings - buying 
and selling flesh, like The Merchant of 
Venice. I'm happy Meese has set out to put 
an end to this business, and I hope no 
subterfuges will save Playboy and 
Penthouse from bankrupcy and oblivion.
Finally. I would suggest Mr. Poller that, if 
he doesn't want any kind of censorship, he 
would do better quitting the newspaper. And 
he would do a favor to all who read him.
Francisco Ruiz 
Grad Student
Mech. E.
The Tartan
Albrecht T. Powell
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robtahek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerDave LevyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Don GambleGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawRuss SeligmanUsa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
John BabichMary MurphyOlve Peersen
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerContributing Editor
John FriedmannJack Poller
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is tie official student newspaper of Carnegie 
Melon University, ft is a weekly newspaper, published 
each Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters by 
students at no cost to members of tie university 
community. It is printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for $15 per semester. $25 per 
year. The EdKorieJ appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is tie official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial boaid. Cohaane are toe opinions of indMdual 
suthors who are not neoe—arly on The Tartan edtiorial 
board or steff. Letters 1» the Edtior are opinions of 
indMduai autoors who are usu—y members of toe
A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include toe writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names wi be witoheld upon request The 
Tartan reserves toe right to condense or refect any letter 
or column. Copyright 1966 by The Tartan. The editorial 
board reserves toe right to witohakl from puMcation any 
copy it deems unit tor publication.
Office: Sldbo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mwing address: The Tartan / Box 17/CarnegieMelon 
Urtiversrty t Pittbujfii PA 15213 
Funded in part by toe AcMtiaa Faa. Al dghte i 
library of Congnes ISSN r 0M&4107

---------------------------------------------------

Your TV is better than you think!
(THIS IS THE FIRST IN A CONTINUING SERIES OF ADS)
For years, you have been hearing about TV's and monitors that have talked about 
their picture quality by giving you a specification called "lines of resolution380, 
400,... one manufacturer even says 600. Simply stated, the more lines a set has, the 
finer detail you can see. In theory, this is important. In reality, it doesn't matter! 
Why? Because the maximum resolution you can see is limited to the signal. How 
much is there in the signal?
eMyou _r 1ou_e8CM_y
over the ai.r (maximum limit) 336.5
ideal conditions
cable & superBeta 300
Beta 260
VHS 220-240
So you can see, most TV's are only as good as the signal 
However, there is one exception. The Laser Videodisc. Laserdisc can deliver a 
full 400 lines. If you have never seen a picture this good, you should!
And now, we are proud to present... a bargain!sale, n. a reduction in price
bargain, n. a sale on something worth having
Not everyone can offer a bargain.First you need a good product — and then you need a very sharp buyer.
With 27 years experience. Opus one works very hard to bring genuine bargains to Pittsburgh.
One example is the PIONEER Laser Video Disc Player. It offers the best picture available in pre-recorded video on discs that, with care, will last forever. Regularly $800.00,
With this ad, until Feb. 15...$399°°
four hundred smith field, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222 
412/281-3969
opuscne
wh«r* you teav« a little bit smarter
3709 forbes avenue, 2nd floor, Oakland, Pennsylvania 15213 
412/621-8585
PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR'S SCHOOL FOR THE SCIENCES
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU will be available with 
the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a five- 
week summer school for very talented high school students from 
Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/Counselor appointments will be available 
for biology, chemistry, and physics laboratories as well as tutorial duties in 
computer science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to scholastically sound applicants. You will 
be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory counselors and to live in the 
same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the PGSS disciplinary rules 
are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the academic program, and conduct 
social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1100 - $1500 
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board.
School is in session from June 28th to August 1st
Applications for an interview available in the office of the 
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences, DH 2201. For further 
information, contact Professor Caretto, EXT. 6669.
Application Deadline: March 13, 1987.
PAYLESS
We feature Fords.
• Low Daily - Weekly Rates
• Weekend Specials
• Must be 21 or over
• Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students' and Parents’ cards accepted.)
• Passenger Vans available also
• 1/2 mile from Campus
For Reservations Across The U S Ar’d Canada
Dial Toll Free 800 237-2804
WE RENT PASSENGER VANSholiday-® 521-5700/J
Merge Rent A Car
roAt-a.nar 5600w"k,nsAve Pgh PAI Cil 11 d w d I (Squirrel Hill)
1987
Carnegie Mellon Summer Programs
ACADEMIC PREPARATIONFOR EDUCA T IONA T, ADVANCEMENT
PRE-COLLEGE PROG RAM 
IN THE FINE ARTS
Summer
Counselor
Positions
We are currently seeking highly qualified and motivated students for 
full-time counselor positions for the summer Pre — College/APEA. program -
Applications Avallatole 
at the Housing Office :9th
Applications Due :20th
Optional Interest 
Sessions at SKIBO 13, 9 : OOpmFebruary lOth 
February 1 2th
For further information please stop toy one of the Interest Sessions or 
contact the Housing Office at x2139 .
? ?our ouro? ?
FREE
DELIVER
WITHIN 
?h 
MINUTES ? ? * ? * 
622-7000
PIZZA.CHEESE 
SUPREME
12" CHEESE 
$4.40 
16" CHEESE 
$6.50
ITALIAN
HOAGIE
12" WHOLE...$3.95 
6" HALF...$2.00
4523 Centre Avenue Oakland Sun - Thurs 11am -1am Fri-Sat 11am-2am
COUPON
? ? Our Gang Pizza ? ? 
$3.00 OFF
Large 2 Item Pizza
HGGwchhh
Expires 2/28/87

---------------------------------------------------

By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
To most people, listening to classical 
music is considered a relaxing activity. Con­
certs are held in spacious, ornate auditoriums 
and, except for an occasional cough or two, 
are acompanied by a relatively quiet and 
polite audience. What many people might be 
surprised to know is that classical music can 
be a fiercely competeive activity. And there 
is no event as competetive as the Inter­
national Tchaikovsky Competition.
Held in Moscow every four years, the 
competition has become the “Olympics” of 
clasical music. Budding musicians compete 
in piano, violin and cello categories. It is the 
biggest musical competition of its kind, but 
for Americans it has an even bigger scope. 
Playing in the auditorium where all the 
greats of Russian music have had their 
works unveiled, and where a painting of 
Tchaikovsky, the father of the Russian 
school, looms above the stage can be like 
playing the Celtics in the Boston Garden.
When the competition began in 1956, 
American critics were dubious about whether 
an American would have a fair chance 
against their Soviet peers. All the judges 
were from Soviet-bloc countries and to make 
matters worse the dtante between America 
and the Soviet Union was poor. But when 
the competition was complete, a tall, lanky, 
pianist from Texas named Van Clibum 
swept the competition and the U.S.S.R in 
the process, off its feet
Since that time it has remained an up-hill 
battle for Americans, but things are getting 
better. Just ask David Kim, the highest 
American finisher in last year's event, “I 
think the audience roots for Americans more 
than anybody because they know that we 
come from half way around the globe. 
Everything is against us. There are no 
American judges. We’re in a strange land 
with strange food and everything... It’s so 
damn hard for us. I really don't think what 
happened to Van Clibum will ever happen 
again. The conditions were so perfect that 
time... It was our guys against their guys 
and there was no way they could not give 
him the first prize because he was so great.” 
David Kim was in town to play 
Chausson's Poeme for Violin and Orchestra 
with the Pittsburgh Ballet in a performance 
of the ballet, Jar din aux Lilas. Last week I 
had the opportunity to talk with one of 
classical music's rising stars about the 
competition.
Bom in 1965, Kim, Korean-American 
began his studies at the age of three. His 
mother was a concert pianist studying at the 
Eastman School of Music in Rochester, 
New York and she began to push the young 
David towards a career in music. “She knew 
even before I was bom, that boy or girl, I 
would start to play the violin at the age of 
three. She made me practice everyday... by 
the time I was five or six I was practicing 
for at least two hours a day - I NEVER 
missed a day!" Soon mother and son were 
perfoming recitals together and the young 
violinist's talents attracted national attention 
as he appeared in “Prodigy” on WNEW-TV 
in New York City with Itzhak Perlman.
By the age of eight, Kim began to take up 
serious studies with Dorthy DeLay in New 
York. By that time the Kim family had 
moved to Clarion, Pennslyvania, his family
drove once a month so he could take lessons. 
A long drive for a music lesson, but 
considering that Dorthy DeLay taught Itzhak 
Perlman, Pinchas Zuckerman, and Shlomo 
Mintz; it was well worth it. Not only did his 
teacher help him develop musically, but she 
also gave him the inspiration to dedicate 
himself to music. Although his studies were 
time consuming, Kim did get a chance to be 
a normal eight-year-old and play Little 
League. But, as he says “while the other kids 
where out playing for three hours a day, I 
would play for a half-hour and practice the 
rest”
“I really don't believe that 
you dont have to be Russian in order to play 
the Russian style... most 
musicians will never even 
visit Russia but that 
doesn't mean they can't 
play Tchaikovsky with just 
as much depth and soul 
that it calls for”
He enrolled at Juilliard School of Music 
when he was 13. During his years there he 
won the school's Paganini Competition. 
This victory brought him invitations to 
festivals throughout the world. By the time 
he had obtained his masters in 1985, he had 
made the transformation from prodigy to an 
internationally acclaimed solisL
To prepare for the Tchaikovsky 
Competition he took a year off from 
performing and moved back to the practice 
room. “It was very discouraging in a way 
- because what I really want to do is preform.
After success in Russia David Kim is now preparing for his solo career
Back when I was a teenager the number of 
concerts you did or were asked to do was a 
good barometer of how well you were 
doing.” For a short time, he considered 
giving up his pursuit of a solo career for the 
security of an orchestra position, but his 
family and his teacher assured him that he
had what it takes to make it on his own.
Apparently they were right as Kim went to 
the competition and took sixth prize, beating 
out over three hundred other entrants. The 
month-long competition is comprised of 
three rounds. The first two rounds are in a
continued on page DS
World Premier from Lisa de Ribere
Ballet presents old and new equally well
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre thrives on 
variety. Perofrming neo-classical, contem­
porary and classical works all in one 
night brings out the best in the company. 
Last weekend’s mixed repertoire per­
formance gave the PBT dancers an 
opportunity to show-off their versatile tal­
ents. PBT danced three distinctive works 
with great success, for the most part.
PBTs performance brought to light a 
lesser known work by choreographer 
George Balanchine. Donizetti Variations 
features intricate, neo-classical steps set 
to music of Italian composer Donizetti's 
opera Don Sebastian. The dancers gave a 
lively performance, although the jetes and 
tour jetes were not always quite there. 
Highlights were the fugue-like interludes 
in the music, which were matched in the 
choreography by whimsical alternating 
steps by the members of the corps.
Principal ballerina Maria Teresa del Real 
sparkled through her solos and the pas de 
deux with partner Pablo Savoye. Savoye, 
who rejoined PBT after a brief stint with 
the London Festival Ballet, did not match 
del Real for sharpness or energy. His 
spins and aerial spins showed impressive
strength, but the leaps appeared forced and 
difficult, and unexpected inadequacy given 
Savoye's usual lightness.
A romantic contemporary masterpiece by 
British choreographer Anthony Tudor pro­
vided the evening's drama. Jardin aux Lilas is 
the story of Caroline, who is about to be 
married to a man she does not love and so 
must bid farewill to her lover, even as the 
groom-to-be must abandon his mistress. The 
four lovers submerge their emotions public 
propriety, but throughout the ballet, set at a 
garden party, true feelings are momentarily 
exposed in fleeting glances or a slight sob. 
This attention to detail gave the dancers a 
decidedly human aura, lacking in many 
classical works.
Jardin aux Lilas is set to the swelling 
Poeme few violin and orchestra by French 
Impressionist composer Ernest Chausson. 
Members of the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra under the direction of Ottavio de 
Rosa and guest violinist David Kim artic­
ulated the music beautifully. Kim's resonant 
tone in the lower range was matched in 
quality by his playing of the high-pitched 
strains in Chausson's work. The slow pace 
of Kim's cadenzas resulted in a few faltering 
steps by soloists Tamat Rachelle (Caroline) 
and Ernest Tolentino.
The free-form music of Chausson is a 
strange choice for ballet. But Sallie Wil­
son, who staged the ballet for PBT, says 
that such atypical choices typify Tudor’s 
works. His ballets differ greatly from the 
classical and neo-classical works that 
most companies put on in the mid 
decades of this century.
Sallie Wilson danced under Tudor at the 
American Ballet Theatre, where she had a 
twenty-five-year career. Wilson now 
travels throughout the world teaching and 
staging Tudor's works under the authority 
of the choreographer.
But the best was yet to come. The final 
piece in the mixed repertoire performance 
was the world premier of choreographer 
Lisa de Ribere's plodess Eau de Vie. This 
classical, three movement work danced to 
the music of Hector Berlioz is energetic 
and demanding. De Ribere'sreal choreo­
graphic strength lies in here treatment of 
the pas de deux.
Maria Teresa del Real gave another 
flawless performance with Alexander 
Nagiba as the couple in blue. But the 
truly breath-taking pas de deux was danced 
by Janet Popeleski and Scott Jovovich 
whose aerial moves easily matched the 
intensity of Berlioz's fast-paced strains. |
Entertainment 
Comics 
Classifieds 
Events
David Kim: An American in Moscow

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—February 3,1987
Great slime glopola vomit effects in From Beyond
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic 
How to balance the budget:
Right now we owe $2.2 trillion. That's 
$2,200,000,000,000.00.
Right now we have forty bucks in the 
bank. That's $40.
Fortunately for this great nation of ours, 
these are the EXACT SAME PRO­
PORTIONS as Joe Bob Briggs' checking 
account at the Farmers and Merchants 
Building and Loan in Grapevine, Texas. 
You’re wondering to yourself, "How do I do 
it?"
Easy. Just follow these few simple steps.
1) Figure out what you need. Like maybe 
you need 240 Phantom F-4E "Top Gun" 
Commie-killing attack planes. Let's say they 
cost two million bucks each. That's 480 
mill.
2) Add in an extra 20 mill for the ones we 
tear up in New Mexico because of the dorks 
we recruit for the Air Force.
3) Ask yourself the question, "Is there 
another way?" Like maybe you DON'T need 
240 Phantoms. Maybe you just need 200, 
and you can use the rest of the money for 
secret CIA goon squads in Nicaragua. Write 
down "Goon Squads?" and estimate the cost: 
let's say its five mill. Look at how much 
we've already saved, just by being sneaky.
4) Now turn the paper over. Write "Who 
can we gouge?" across the top. Don't leave 
anything out: income taxes, excise taxes, 
corporation taxes, oil taxes, cigarette taxes. 
And then after you've made the whole list, 
go down to the very bottom and write "Print 
up some more of them babies." Put a check 
by "Print up some more of them babies."
5) Ask yourself the question, "If we spent 
more money on education, wouldn't that
mean more citizens paying more taxes and 
making the country stronger?"
6) Answer the question, "No." Write next to 
the answer: $10 for education.
7) Take out a separate sheet of paper now, 
and write across the top "Steal from the 
Japanese." This is where I want you to be 
the most imaginative. Do we put a $2,000 
import tax on every Toyota? Maybe it 
doesn't take something that drastic. How 
about a campaign to make fun of their 
clothes every time we see groups of Japanese 
tourists on the street? It's a psychological 
thing. They'll go back home feeling insecure 
and humiliated. This category is only limited 
by your own imagination, because, always 
remember, NOBODY LIKES THESE 
GUYS.
8) Finally, look at the Social Security 
system, and do you know what you’ll find 
out? Do you? All the money is going to 
OLD PEOPLE. There's a much easier way. 
BUILD A GIANT NUSING HOME. Make 
em check in there whether they want to or 
not.
In other words, let's start running this 
COUNTRY the same way we run our 
FAMILIES.
Speaking of chaining people to the wall, 
"From Beyond" is the greatest drive-in horror 
flick of the year, made by the same people 
that put out last year's Drive-In Academy 
Award winner, "Re-Animator," and featuring 
the best slime glopola vomit effects since 
"Parasite in 3-D" in 1982. What we got here 
is a couple of scientists that like to dress up 
in slick black leather, turn on the giant green 
tuning fork, and wait for the vibes to 
ENLARGE a gland in the middle of their 
foreheads which is where you feel sex. Too
Jeffery Combes, requesting psych­
iatric assistance in From Beyond
bad, though, cause as soon as you do that, 
these invisible snake fish start eating your 
face, and if you leave the tuning fork on 
long enough, Protoplasm Man jumps out of 
a closet and bites off your head like a 
gingerbread man. All this stuff happens 
BEFORE THE TITLE OF THE MOVIE 
COMES ON.
The rest of the flick is about how Jeffrey 
Combes, the scientist who doesn't get his 
head bit off, and Barbara Crampton, the 
bimbo from "Re-Animator," and a pro 
football player named Bubba all go back to
the haunted condo and turn the giant tuning 
fork on again "to recreate the experiment" to 
cure all the schizophrenia in the world. 
Pretty soon we got snake fish, insect heads, 
protoglopola slime monsters, and a whole 
lot of green syrup oozin out of body parts. 
But here's the good part. Once you turn this 
machine on, you can't RESIST it. You 
LOVE it. All you wanna do is dress up in 
spiked heels and pinch your gills. In other 
words, we got Pervert Fu.
Four breasts. Six dead bodies. Twelve 
gallons blood. Head-eating. Snake-fish 
attacks. Brain-eating. Eyeball-sucking. 
Stump-licking. Excellent giant-linguini 
effects. An 87 on the Vomit Meter. 
Gratuitous iron-bar-and-shackle Romper 
Room. Bee Fu. Protoplasm Fu. Snake in 
the middle of the forehead Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for Ted Sorel, 
as the evil insect-head, blubber-body Dr. 
Pretorious, for say in "No! I want to see 
more! I want to see more than any man has 
ever seen!"; Jeffrey Combs, as the kid 
scientist who survives, for sayin "The five 
senses just weren't enough for him 
anymore"; Ken Foree, as Bubba Brownlee 
the bodyguard, for barfin on camera and 
sayin "It's changing us, Doc, all of us, and 
not for the better"; Barbara Crampton, as the 
crazed nympho shrink thrill-junkie, for sayin 
"This could be the first step in curing 
schizophrenia"; and Stuart Gordon, the 
director and new drive-in master, for ending 
the movie with the words "It ate him." Four 
stars.
._o m_, uIMU MC l_8eU
GSO Presents:
The Affordable Floors
At Graffiti 
Friday, February 6th 
9:30 til ??? 
FREE ADMISSION FOR CMU GRADS
(CMU ID Required)
FUNDED BY YOUR STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEEDATE TIME PLACEMÊk - i------1 — C1M6 AnCwvad CttM Ungi

---------------------------------------------------

February 3,1987—The Tartan—Page D3
Friday, February 6 
1 Opm - 2am in Skibo Ballroom 
Free Admission 
Refreshments available
Sponsored by SDC —Funded by Student Activities Fee
At Forbes...
By CHRIS CORRIGAN
Special to the Tartan
So you're hanging out after dinner, 
it's a Tuesday, you don't want to study 
yet, but you don't know how to spend 
the time. I got an idea. Why don’t you 
cruise over to the Forbes Gallery and 
check out the opening? Yeah, that's 
right, go on over and see the work that 
Carnegie Mellon artists are producing.
This week's show will include works 
by Les Jones, you know, the famous 
dancer and artist. He'll be displaying 
some of his most recent and downright 
exciting work. You can expect to see 
some great drawings and facinating 
prints from this young bundle of 
creative energy. Who knows, someday 
you might be able to say, "I saw that 
guy’s stuff when he was still an 
undergrad and I knew then he was 
going places." Or would you rather 
say, "Oh yeah, I could have seen one 
of that guy’s earlier shows, but I 
stayed in and studied thermodynamics 
instead.”?
Along with Les, Chris Wassil will 
be showing some of her pieces. Chris 
is known for her interesting work with 
ceramics that could very well 
challenge your ideas on that medium's 
limits. Like Les, you can expect to 
see some exciting work on her behalf.
The show will be running from 
Tuesday, February 3 through Sunday 
February 8. The opening is Tuesday 
at 7:00pm. Refreshments will be 
served and the public is invited.
A Baroque valentine from P.A.N.
PITTSBURGH: The Renaissance and 
Baroque Society of Pittsburgh will pay 
homage to the winter holiday that celebrates 
love, as it presents the Medieval Ensemble 
Project Ars Nova (known as Ensemble 
P.A.N.). The program, "The Art of Courtly 
Love," will be held at 8 p.m. in Synod Hall 
on February 14. The music is entirely 
appropriate, for although the exact 
beginnings of Valentine's Day are not 
known, it has roots in the Middle Ages. A 
study of Geoffrey Chaucer yields one of the 
early legends: he wrote that the birds mated 
on February 14!
The program will feature courtly love lyrics 
which benefit the traditional nature of the 
day. The ensemble will also perform works 
from their speciality, the Ars Nova, the 
music of Italy which is associated with the 
rise of the city states following the unhappy 
years of the Black Death. These new 
political city states had rulers whose wealth 
and power soon brought them songs of 
praise from the musicians who benefited 
from their patronage. Thus the songs include 
praise for a "fair lady" as well as for a prince.
The performers use several stringed 
instruments, some plucked and some bowed 
(vielle, rebec, gittem, and lute) and the 
cometto, an ancestor of today's trumpet. 
Soprano Laurie Monahan, The Boston Globe 
wrote, "is a wondrous singer with a haunting 
voice of breathtaking purity and 
flexibility.... P.A.N. confronted all obstacles 
with consummate artistry—impeccable 
intonation, exquisite interaction, effortless 
agility, remarkable spontaneity: the works." 
The Los Angeles Times said, "Even the 
finest string quartets would be hard-pressed 
to execute performances more synergetic." 
Members of the ensemble are Americans
Memebers of Project Ars Nova (P.A.N.)
who are based in Basel, Switzerland, where 
they initially met at the Schola Cantorum 
Basiliensis. Crawford Young (lute, gittem) 
continues to teach and do research at the 
Schola Cantorum; Laurie Monahan is on the 
faculty at the New England Conservatory.
To continue her holiday celebration, the
Renaissance and Baroque Society will invite 
the audience to enjoy Valentine sweets at a 
reception following the concert.
Tickets for "The Art of Courtly Love" are 
available at the TIX booth or by calling 
(412) 682-7262. Prices are $10.00 for adults, 
$5 for students.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4 —The Tartan—February 3,1987
Fine performances in Public Theatre’s Orphans
By ALAN HAKIMOGLU
Special to The Tartan
Lyle Kessler's Orphans, while by no means 
a piece of great literature, is still a well- 
crafted play, capable of captivating an 
audience for two hours. The current PPT cast 
of Stephen Mailer, James Anthony Shanta 
and William Jay is a highly talented one, 
and, under the direction of Carnegie Mellon 
Drama Department Head, Mel Shapiro; each 
member manages to hold his own without 
overdominating in a piece that really has 
three central characters.
Orphans, which is set in North Philadel­
phia, tells the story of the brothers Treat and 
Philip, who though orphaned at an early age 
have somehow managed (we don’t know how 
and that's a literary problem with the text) to 
ward off the State and live independently in 
what once was their parents’ house (their 
mother's dresses still hang in the closet). 
Treat, played with an authentic Philadelphia 
accent by Shanta, protects his brother from 
the world—as exemplified and symbolized 
by a half-remembered, half-imagined omni­
allergy—by confining him to the inside of 
their house, while he provides for him by 
mugging. Thus we see that, while Treat is
ostensibly the parent figure, he is really 
little more able to deal with the world than 
Philip is, crime being his only recourse for 
the pair's survival, violence the only reaction 
he knows to things that upset him. Shanta, 
one of CMU Drama’s most outstanding 
recent graduates, plays Treat with an organic 
toughness that always contains, but does not 
always show, his vulnerability—hence we 
are surprised and moved by Treat’s emotional 
development, and yet have no trouble 
believing it
Mailer’s playing of Philip, on the other 
hand, was not quite so natural. Intellectually 
I could understand his bizarre vocal choice as 
the product of all the old movies Philip has 
watched on TV—since watching movies on 
TV has taken up a considerable portion of 
Philip's life. The voice is that of a Fifties 
Movie Innocent Street Kid—New York 
vowels but no consonants lost, the 
overemphasized diction constituting the 
innocence while at the same time conveying 
a melancholy, near-schizoid quality.
Thus the one-syllable name Treat becomes 
a hoarse "Tah-ree-tuh". Now just imagine 
that sort of emphasis chi ev-er-ee worrrd. Yet
somehow Mailer manages it In an abstract 
way, of course, the choice is right for the 
character—a ragamuffin urban waif—and it 
does make Philip’s obsession with brand 
names funnier (Hellmann’s Ree-al May-o- 
naizzz"), but it's too moviesque for this 
naturalistic play and it's jarring to have two 
brothers speaking in completely different 
dialects. Still, Mailer physicalizes Philip 
well and his vocal affectations, like Jack 
Nicholson's when that actor overdoes it 
manage to fascinate even as they annoy.
Enter Harold, played by William Jay (who 
may be familiar to PPT audiences from last 
year's Master Harold and the Boys). Harold 
comes in very drunk with Treat one night 
He is obviously wealthy and Treat at first 
tries to take advantage of his drunkenness by 
tying him up and holding him for ransom. 
However, this plan is quickly subverted by 
the clever Harold, whom Jay plays with an 
endearing mixture of street smarts and 
sophistication. Harold, an orphan himself, 
spotted Treat as a "dead end kid" right off the 
bat in the bar, and does as good a job as he 
can of being the father these kids (or he 
himself, for that matter) never had. He 
involves Treat in his business—which is
Catch a Tartan triple play 
on WRCT this week!
Wednesday
Saturday
Sunday
Men's Basketball at John Carroll 
live at 7:55pm
with Stew Levine and Perry Pierce
Women's basketball vs. NYU 
live from Skibo Gym at 3:55pm
with Hal Levine and Ray Young
Hockey vs. Allegheny 
live from Lakevue Ice Palace at 12:55pm
with Neil Jordan and Neil Levene
awd c&M't
*
"SportsLine," tonight at 8:30, with our 
special guests, the Lady Tartans. You 
can call in and talk women's basketball 
with us at 621 -WRCT.
WRCT
Recognized around the neighborhood 
as the leader in Tartan Sports coverage.
still crime, by the way, but of a higher 
order—and finally exposes Philip to the 
outside world. Director Mel Shapiro, on 
sabatical this year from CMU, has made a 
wise decision in casting Jay, a black actor, 
in a part not specifically written as black. 
While not contradicting anything established 
in the script, Jay’s blackness adds an extra 
layer of tension to Harold's developing 
relationship with the two brothers, specific­
ally in one scene where in Treat repeatedly 
rants about "this big tall black guy" who 
made him angry.
Shapiro's direction is taut visceral, and 
constantly compelling throughout, without 
drawing attention to itself. Karl Eigsti’s 
scenic design accurately recreates a North 
Philadelphia interior while his "loud'' black- 
and-white photo collage comments on that 
section of that city, hovering ambiently 
above the acting area. The music, urban 
atonal jazz saxophones, is excellently chosen 
and extremely evocative.
If you miss Orphans you're missing 
something really special.
Orphans finishes up its run this week. Call 
321-9800for ticket info
The Renaissance City 
Woodwind Quartet
PITTSBURGH: The Renaissance City 
Woodwind Quartet, Western Pennsylvania's 
oldest professional chamber music ensemble, 
will present its fifth concert of the 1986-87 
season on Sunday afternoon, February 8 at 
2:30 p.m. in the Carlow College's Kresge 
Theatre.
Warm your heart with this pre-Valentines 
Day program of a suite of Renaissance love 
songs by Praetorius, Isaac, di Lasso, 
Thomas Morley and others. Also featured on 
the program will be Beethoven’s Trio for 
flute, bassoon and keyboard, Heinrich Kaspar 
Schmid’s Quintet, Sonata in d minor for 
bassoon and harpsichord by Johann Ernst 
Galliard and Three Pieces for Quintet by 
Adolph Deslandres.
For tickets to this Romantic Interlude, call 
the Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet at 
421-2183.
For the latest in CMU 
Sports action check out the 
Tartan Sports Section
Cushman & Wakefield, Inc. 
CORPORATE PRESENTATION
The nation’s largest 
real estate services firm, 
serving solely 
the business community.
CAREERS IN REAL ESTATE
Date: February 5, 1987 
Time: 6:00 PM 
Place: Skibo Hall, Room 112
We offer an excellent opportunity 
for entrepreneurial persons seeking 
high income through sales of 
real estate brokerage services.
Volume8
A HOCKE FEUEH GBOUP COMPANY
Business America’s Beal Estate Firm

---------------------------------------------------

David Kim
continued from page D1
recital format with the applicants performing 
a wide variety of works. The twelve judges 
go through the pain-staking process of 
narrowing the performers down to twelve 
finalists. In the finals, each competitor 
performs two concertos back to back - one of 
their choosing and the Tchaikovsky 
Concerto.
“When I applied, I never dreamt that I 
would be in the finals so I put down, on a 
whim, the Stravinsky Violin Concerto as 
my choice. It turned out to be a good choice 
because it is a short piece and I was able to 
save iip energy for the Tchaikovsky.”
For an American to play both schools of 
Russian music in Moscow could easily be 
intimidating, but Kim was not affected. “I 
really don't believe that you have to be 
Russian in order to play the Russian style. 
Of course there are some things that are 
traditional in the Russian school ... but just 
because Itzhak Perlman is Israeli and not 
Austrian doesn't mean his Brahms sucks. It’s 
so dumb to think like that Most musicans 
will never even visit Russia but that doesn't 
mean they can’t play Tchaikovsky with just 
as much depth and soul that it calls for.”
The Tchaikovsky Competition has been 
known to be the stepping stone for 
illustrious solo careers of its past winners. 
And although Kim finished sixth and not 
first, he is no exception. “In the past I was 
able to handle the invitations by myself, but 
because of the competition I have gotten so 
many more requests that I think I might get 
an agent or at least buy a PC. This 
competition gave me exposure... I guess all 
I need is for people to give me a chance - 
that's what a lot of people say but I really 
feel that And this year that’s what happened. 
I have been playing a lot of important 
concerts and whoever has heard me the 
response has been good. Things have been 
kind of snowballing. It’s been great and 
exciting but I can’t say it's something 
foreign that I never expected... I have always 
wanted it and I knew I could get it”
Tartan News is the 
source
v8C a_81 Uod1oo 
C_ l_1k 
lgo1o MC 5Iy U_ 
I l_1eU _r d__U7
Your first job after graduation 
should offer more than just a 
paycheck.
If you're graduating this year,
look into a unique oppor-1
tunity to put your degree to
work where it can do a world
of good. Look into the Peace
Corps.INFORMATION & FILM:
4E51 Forbes Quad (U of Pitt)
Tues. JSa 27 4 p.m.
Wed. Jan. 28 7 p.m.
SENIOR INTERVIEWS: 
Thur. Fob. 12 
SIGN UP NOW AT 
Placement Office 
Warner Hall, Rm. 19 
OR CONTACT:
Lynn Cohen, Campus Rep 
4G01 Forbes Quad
648-7424
photo by A.T.Powell
A valiant effort, but to no 
avail due to the poor turnout 
at the AB Electric Dance
Marketing Media Services 
Advertising and Public Relations 
Software Publishing and Marketing 
Research on Media Markets and Audiences 
New Product Development in Video, Film, or Sound 
Computer Management, Office Automation, and Advanced Technologies
Consider a Career in Communications..
-r a_8 I1o MyCo1ouCoU My Cgouo Casou _r 5I1oo1up l1MCo r_1 Cgo 5ICIe_d8o 
C_ Cgo iyyoy,o1d t5g__e _r F_DD8yM5ICM_yup LyM0o1uMCa _r t_8Cgo1y 
FIeMr_1yMI7 ’IuCo1fu Uod1oo My F_DD8yM5ICM_yu ’IyIdoDoyC“ vg7”7 My 
F_DD8yM5ICM_y ngo_1a IyU KouoI15g7
veoIuo uoyU Do Myr_1DICM_y 1odI1UMyd d1IU8ICo s1_d1IDu IC Cgo 
iyyoy,o1d t5g__e _r F_DD8yM5ICM_yup LtF7
Name____________________________________________
Address_____________________________________________________________________________
City/State/Zip_________________________________________________Telephone____________
F811oyCea ICCoyUMydRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
’a DIA_1 MuRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
’IMe C_B
iyyoy,o1d t5g__e _r F_DD8yM5ICM_yu 
LyM0o1uMCa _r t_8Cgo1y FIeMr_1yMI 
?JhG t7 b__0o1 tC7
:_u iydoeoup Fi ShhTSWhGTP
Designing Media Campaigns for Politics, Health, and Other Areas 
Journalism, Cinema, or Broadcast Management 
Communications Law and Policy 
Telecommunications Consulting 
Organizational Communication 
Cable and Satellite
m mm ?© mmv smmm
”LKbi’p /V—:iV” 
9K/-mLK—p Y/tn —/K’iV­ 
:zV”zVp/V—:iV” 
’i”K-”p tvi-V 
’/q-Fz F-n­p ’/q-Fz" 
’-:iVp -ni:­ 
ViVn/tp 9KiVF/ 
Vi—z­ip .iviV 
viK-tp 9KiVF/ 
t-V—ivzK/ 
O-/VVi7 iLtnK-iFz’/ iV” tv/i2 nz nb/ K/vK/t/Vnin-O/ 
9zK nb/ -Vtn-nLn/ 9zK /LKzv/iV tnL”-/t
Yb/K/B PPG t2-mz
”in/B 9/mKLiK­ Snb
n-’/B ?Bhh nz JBhh
Entertainment Staff 
Meeting
Tuesday 5:45 Tastan Main 
Office
All Staff is invitednlMdda

---------------------------------------------------

F_DM5u
InkspotsProvided by SDC
HoweveR, mœ's HowevR, Fûtmnc lanp me approaching wo me mm wmwœ, 'Heœ,soF cône,ûtHeswonvscl wo soa\ w\ smer cûHe
.rrs imams..em § MORE fVTBNTIALLYRHeHne,wcvsR evHo m * *m&o ue* WORKING m,w' tHne pûûrh wo 'i\ LATEST
' JW PAINTING...
foresaffs 
cs h, rtm phlhfLOLA (N HBK STUPK)-
nette rr awes... ."me ts,xlf mi Ne 
OPINION V IF YOU / THINK IT'S * WONPERFUL
WHAT POYOU THINK* "me HONESTLY. HONeST/ OPINION1-T^ly IT HRS?VL ^ pesmovepBeiTZRMENf/ ,1>V ftr, hi
HI. REMEMBER HOW YOU SAIP YOUVvûœwa NeM,eveR,eMR sum ueTtiME'-^PUMA. __
...mi,IFINISHEP A NEW FAINTING... I'M CALUNG IT "SWAN SONATA INerne: frnx r "ssnu
I REORGAHtZEP we YOUR RECORP COL CALI mis LECTION TDPfiY. 'THE BIG ITVSSeP THEHgôœne'ûoen wtcû, hl \a
I STUFF. (Æi
me next romantic LAW MINE ON our toup, OF A MOPERN, MATURING RELATIONSHIP IS right h^re. OR 
NOT HERE, AC1UW.
LOLA, WHY PIP Because 
-sa me o- rrs romuxCEREAL BOM, KIPIOMUSour of me rnr iwœ keep
dwhcIf irmene.
BUT I UNE YOU PROBABLY a coup usepwwemCEREAL BOWL-. THEMONYOURI'VE BEEN HEAP, TOO.REFRiGCRATlNG CWNt
ftxo em l. Nee ts,x-:iWASAume
KIP.
ÌFMCHKtSóePmwmrm 
mmS MM-'
i exaxax rrs resaf 
ftrf fmr h, sawRELATIONSHIP WHEREi shoulp be expecting thepreapep 
'BN, CONFESSION ' /, AT ANY MOMENT %
OPUS-PARUNG.Zoger the Vorton
-----rTHIS IS THE WORST. I A SIGN THAT THE RELA­TIONSHIP IS APPROACHING MtPPlE AGE IU. BE IN THE BATHROOM.
CAwmssf=mtrs
KNOCKS KNOCKA1 JUST occuw.NEEPAKLEENEX.
ÉPISODE ONE.
FLEHPOTS fViL PLAN
...AND BEFORE F LEU POT CAWE5
Tar tnS fwieAsN y sc tEd fEd 777
MœneûgOO
UXA..REMEMBER HOW I SAIP LAST MeeK THAT I THOUGHT YOU* NEW PAINTING C00KEP UK6 Asensitive RepeF- 
//nZt 1 fNmoN of mrsI POLE WtmiHnature anp me jr\ uNiteRser
mi ' SO FAR.Wele SeEN 'THE hgue; the honest opinion.' 
'THEBIG ADJUSTMENT.' 'THE &G
Is,dxllhs,* r,m 'me e*c
CASUAL#SS ~ ALL PITFMIS OF 
MOPERN ROMANCE. ANY MORE*
WHAT?
i uep.IT LOOKS uKe MoosePROOl.
FL OlHKANPNOW. THE BIG SPAT*..just one, I* NRAV.
HAVE we H£m> THE ¿AST or 
F "x t msfu &seWp" y //or!!WROfJIr.

---------------------------------------------------

Kurt ShawNollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh with Joe Ferrugia
Nollem regains hi» memory «ad begins to recount the tale of his voyage home...
B777 ibz q nzOiiOFbzV/7 -r5’tL.nLrY f<X. fiLr*CST fOUkQ 06FXS BEKBe 
SOf^FOKJC flOAOY CPei£D TVte
BGK.__,J
TÜT0, I DOUT THlhK UflòF/U 
**A/Sl1S HHYHOGe.ahr 1 izememBfR, rtnBye ERy 
iw ¿cs s, I CANxxxrof
VAGKieV....
f FINALLY! ^ HOMf at cast\
A Look Withinby Kneep Debends
Y Kmou), YKm ou),Nj shK),
ojo anoy^d UbeJmj £eop/e.I't forces -¿he»^ "to go "to bixarre ex-6-emes to escape 
The ldix.ls LitrayC Borkeks 
Oi -¿hew... a.
...plus c6 wdkcs -¿hem a // -¿(He
more. lìkefy io rooj IM'o 
^utéiViflj iabe/r Ofl uou.
Dribble
x b”Cr1 2VzY ­_8
Healthlf GUTftfc.V_8 ’I1CM e FiOM neiMq 
'mc£*>trtrf.Tt)0^
e1CiF”(CF tCrCr5)!Y M_rC80MDD 8rl17
ob Glickstein
'LEUPOT! IT WOULP 
EXCEPT...
¦mai
by Ed Baranoski
W"" of= OrR-Kl NGoLhxlibv€ SNAPPED our To -rUEid 
TXAUce, Sot I cAu'r nui) 
Plato. E?01 You scetJ */iM ?
LATEß. A A-r OArh(H-u /hdSCC/fiJPf TWOWUT Hf 6Yt curt 
AtiD J*0d*r usaut no &e*K 
-rue THAMCe. jr -TV'tJk'
SUC OS AS GO/AJG TÓ 
TAHl ud ihn€~ UiTH ned.
Sur -ruI s /s too ü*joiç*iiPiE0 f*j<z eveki 
M VNOeR.QR.AD t
Sur &Lf% T
BSrofK 78 keeP &ari
Soeey o^oy
FLOlHK!
ORNER
’Hl PKOBLCMS7. 
REMEM&ER, F£UAS : 
1 nzz AVGt£SSlvE,BUT
[ Too ThltUP WASHy.j
Hum AM EQUATIONSr s*y, }
HOVABOm- TAKE
you to 
I THE SUC* AT ruer 
BIJOU
) lrfphoHP
jHOT/iAfUidm mo.Hi My 
'&ZÒÀ/G-RlfiHT

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8—The Tartan—February 3,1987
David Byrne’s twisted world of True Stories
By R. S. WILSON
Special to the Tartan
Skewed. That's what the person sitting 
next to me in the theatre called "True 
Stories", David Byrne's latest work on the 
big screen. Almost everyone recognizes 
Byrne as the lead singer, writer, and co- 
founder of the Talking Heads, but soon he 
will also be known for this film of the 
absurd. In "True Stories" Bryne introduces us 
to a collection of characters he skimmed 
from tabloid newspaper clippings: a woman 
who never leaves her bed, a compulsive liar 
who claims to have written "Billie Jean", a 
couple that communicates by messages 
through their children, and the lonely Louis
Fyne seeking a wife by advertisement on the 
television.
We meet them (and others) as Byrne, the 
narrator, drives around their hometown of 
Virgil in a red convertible. During the trip 
we examine the role of semiconductor tech­
nology in American society, check out the 
Virgil singles scene, wander about malls, 
attend fashion shows, and follow a 4-H club 
who play stick and frying pan instruments.
This is essentially the entire movie, so if it 
isn't obvious by now, there is no plot
The narrator says, "When I see a place for 
the first time, I notice everything -- the sky, 
the color of white paper, the way people 
walk, doorknobs, every detail." This is the
subject of the film, noticing the details 
about the twisted people stirred up in Mr 
Byrne’s imagination. No one story, no real 
characterizations, no relationships-just a 
tour through Virgil during its "Celebration 
of Specialness."
Byrne says, "I deal with stuff that's too 
dumb for people to have bothered to 
formulate opinions on." He likes the trivial 
details of life no one else bothers to notice, 
much less film, which makes "True Stories" 
so absorbing. Byrne shows us a view of the 
world we've never considered before. Not 
exactly a different world, but he forces our 
focus on trivialities we miss otherwise.
Everything is fresh and slightly skewed, yet 
everything still fits reality; it all still makes 
sense no matter how absurd.
If you like the Talking Heads for the 
content of their music, and you've liked 
Byrne's previous videos, then you'll prob­
ably like "True Stories."
The cast does an exceptional job making 
us believe this world and its denizens are 
actually real and Byrne puts in a great 
performance as the "friendly and straight­
forward" narrator. Filming and camera work 
are top quality thanks to Ed Lachman and the 
soundtrack features the Head's latest album 
by the same name as the movie.
“No Age” improvisation from Morphic Resonance
By CLARE S. ROSEN
Special to the Tartan
The Morphic Resonance Trio, improvisers 
and composers Chris Koenigsberg, Ben 
Opie, and Jason Gibbs, staged their third 
annual concert in the Adamson Wing on 
Saturday afternoon before a small but 
enthusiastic audience. The group's line-up 
was somewhat different than usual, due to 
Gibbs' broken left arm which unfortunately 
limited his role in the performance, as well 
as to the appearance of several special 
guests. Koenigsberg on bass and Opie on 
saxophone were joined by CMU electronic 
and computer music instructor Roger 
Dannenberg «1 trumpet, Steve Knopoff on 
trombone, and poet Francis Lackey. In 
addition, the musicians utilized a small 
arsenal of wooden flutes, bells, recorders, 
assorted percussion and African instruments.
Morphic Resonance draws upon various
musical backgrounds to create untraditional 
improvisations, a genre Gibbs likes to 
characterize as "no age" music. The music 
changes spontaneously and surprisingly. 
Moments of solemnity, aggression, 
lyricism, and humor can succeed one another 
rapidly as the performers respond to each 
other. Nothing is too outrageous to 
become the next logical step. The musicians 
use unusual techniques which defy 
conventional notions of how instruments are 
played.
The unorthodox methods of the musicians 
can bewilder an unprepared spectator and 
Saturday's concert had several such 
moments, as when Opie produced a large 
section of flexible plastic tubing attached to 
a saxophone mouthpiece and made bizarre 
. noises by whirling ¿he tube around rapidly, 
stretching and stepping on it while blowing 
into the mouthpiece, or as when Koenigs­
berg suddenly pulled on a pair 
of gloves, grabbed a piece of sheet metal, 
shook it vigorously and kicked it
Two beat-style poems read by Francis 
Lackey were not at all out of place. Lackey 
gleefully repeated his refrain "Music has 
reacted the end of the line!" and Morphic 
Resonance punctuated it with furious 
squawks, squeaks and scrapes.
Morphic Resonance is one of the most 
interesting, innovative and dedicated musical 
groups in the area. They will probably
appear again this year at the Three Rivers 
Arts Festival, and you can hear recordings 
from last year's very successful Arts Festival 
performance on WRCT. They can also be 
heard on a new cassette compilation 
"Promises, Promises", a collection of 
experimental music from around the country, 
released on the Statutory Tape label. The 
cassette is distributed by RRR Records, 151 
Paige St, Lowell, MA, 01852, an 
increasingly important source of underground 
and avant-garde recordings.
t AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
Help us keep winning.
W ¦___________LL A . „ ¦_ _ CWJ)1? LITTLE ATHENS
2103 Murray Avenue • Pittsburgh, PA 15217422-1330
uMonn DELIVERVi
MINIMUM $5.00
GYROS
(Pittsburgh’s biggest and best)$2.35
’/VL
• SHISHKABOBS.....................................................................................$2.85
T heOherigna lHootg DSSSSSSSSSSSSSSp45
• GREEK SALAD.........................................................................................$I M
• ARTICHOKE SALAD.............................................................................$2.2*
• GRAPE LEAVES......................................................................................$2.35
• HOUMOUS ..........................................................................$1.55
• SARA GHANOGE ..............................................................$155
• COMBINATION PLATTER Mn. aaM. 522SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSp3SCA
• FALAFU. ...............................$1.M
$1.1$ 
$ .75
• GREEK PASTRIES...................................................................................$ .$$
$ .75 
• M
OPEN FROM 11 AM - 11 PM 
DELIVERY TIME 4 PM - 10:30 PM
Contest!
WIN $100°°
DESIGN A LOGO FOR THE
Student Dormitory Council
• Deadline for entries is extended to February 
6, 1987
• Open to all residents of University housing
• Logo should be original, snappy, & applicable 
to a wide variety of media
• Be sure to address entry or drop off @SDC 
office, RM55 Skibo & be sure to include your 
name, campus address & phone # on the back of 
all entries
• Please put ea. entry on an 81/2" x 11" sheet of 
paper

---------------------------------------------------

February 3,1987—The Tartan—Page D9
A hit from Translator and a dog from Paul Young
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Record Critic 
n1IyueIC_1
Everywhere That I’m Not - A
KoC1_uso5CM0o 
415 Records
Translator separated in the summer of 
1986, after having released a few albums that 
met with a good bit of success. This album 
is a compilation of songs off of those 
albums, and, as a result, is very, very good. 
The songs trace the band's development from
a new band with twangy songs like 
"Gravity" to an accomplished group of 
musicians with songs like "Sleeping 
Snakes", an incredibly powerful song that 
breaks a solid martial beat with a syncopated 
chorus of "Stop this missile .building", 
resulting in an emphasis of both. Everything 
on the album is of high quality, although 
the continuity suffers because of its 
compilation status. The title cut, their latest 
single, is a witty anti-love song, and 
possibly one of the band's best chances to 
break into the mainstream. Unfortunately, 
it's a bit late for that now. Still, few final 
albums give a thorough overview of a band 
as well as this album. A pity that there 
won't be another.
Tartan Record Grade: 3.75
Hipsway
Hipsway
F_e8D,MI
Some bands are bar bands. However, not
all bars are bars; some are lounges. 
Hipsway isn't a bar band of the former type; 
they're a lounge band, and not a totally bad 
one at that. However, they aren’t a great 
one. Songs like "Bad Thing Longing" show 
how well they handle the music, but none of 
their songs are cause for repeated listenings. 
All are okay, some more okay than others, 
but all are only okay. However, it's difficult 
to dislike their music completely, because 
there's nothing to dislike about it. White 
bread has nothing on Hipsway. As a result, 
this is a depressing album, since the listener 
wants to like the songs, but doesn't really 
want to hear them again. Hipsway's music 
lacks the spark necessary for memorable 
lounge music. The Style Council has it. The 
Lounge Lizards had it. Roxy Music had it 
(sometimes, when they tried to). Hipsway 
doesn't have it, and as a result, their music is 
just Muzak.
Tartan Record Grade: 2.25
Paul Young 
Between Two Fires 
Columbia
After two great albums, Paul Young has 
created a dog. Exceedingly dumb lyrics and 
rehashed melodies result in an album of 
seriously substandard songs. The lyrics are 
especially annoying, except for when they're 
incomprehensible. "War Games", the second 
song on the album, has one of the stupidest 
opening lines I've ever heard. What is 
"How many home must you break to feel 
good; how many men does it take to bum 
wood" supposed to mean anyway? 
Fortunately for Young, he didn't write this 
song - the shame could be unbearable. "In 
The Long Run", the next track, has a spiffy 
Mark Knopfleresque riff in the intro,
compliments of Steve Boltz, Young’s 
guitarist for the last album as well, but the 
rest of the song is boring. Other partially 
interesting cuts are "Wasting My Time" for 
its burbley Hammond organ bridge, and 
"Between Two Fires" for its beautiful piano 
and organ duet. Unfortunately, the only song 
that has any hope is "Why Does a Man Have 
To Be Strong?", which shows why Young 
has achieved such reknown for his voice. 
The song works beautifully, with his voice 
fitting into the melody perfectly, accenting it 
rather than fighting against it, as it does in 
most of the other songs. If it weren't for this 
song, this album would be a total loss. As it 
is, the best route of action would be to wait
until this song is released as a single, buy it 
then, and leave the album in the store. 
Tartan Record Grade: 1.75
Meat Loaf
Blind Before I Stop
Atlantic
Some people don't know when to quit. 
Tartan Record Grade: R
Give a hoot. 
Don’t pollute.
Forest Service, U.S.D.A.
H A l R
'j*
LEWIS' HAIR SALON
Featuring products 
formulated by thetri
INSTITUTE OF TRICHOIOGY
813 S. Aiken Avenue - Shadyside - Phone 682-4063 
Hours Mon.-Fri. 9-9 Sat. 9-5 Sun. 12-5
Cut............$14-16Perms.........$44 (includes cut)
Highlighting.. $15 and up
ATTENTION 
SENIORS
I. You can still pick up your Senior Banquet 
ticket at the Alumni Office, 5017 Forbes 
Avenue, second floor by Thursday, 
February 5, 1987. Please bring your 
student ID. One ticket per senior.
n. Sign up for seating in Skibo, Gray 
Matter on Wednesday, February 4, 
1987, from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Everyone will have an assigned seat. 
Tables are arranged with seating for ten at 
each. You do not need to have ten people 
in your group but you do need to sign up if 
you want to sit together. (One person can 
sign up for the entire group.)
Lbf Chartered buses will load in front of 
Skibo at 5:30 p.m. on Friday, February 
6.1987. If you are driving, parking is 
available at the Hyatt Hotel ana will cost 
appproximately $3.00.
COUPON
Large Cheese Pizza$3.99 
Free liter of coke
(All sandwiches come with rr.eited provolone ch*e*e and are OVEN-BAKED*
Italian Hoagie...........................4.00
Vi Hoagie............................. . 2.00
Hot Sausage.............................3.90
Meat Ball.....................................3.90Cheese Hoagie...........................3.20
Steak Hoagie.:............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie....................4.20
Cold Sub.................................. 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)......................4.70
(Roêl Itslisn Copicottê with Qroon 
Poppors. Mushrooms A thst Spoeioi Touch) 
*rmsh lottuoo. tomé to. ooéon — uniooê spocit** 
Poppors or Mushrooms — It Estro)

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIO—The Tartan—February 3,1987
Taylor Mason pokes fun at college life
By AMANDA COHEN
Special to the Tartan 
Just before Taylor Mason's performance on 
Monday night, I asked Doug Carey of AB 
how I might recognize the comedian before 
he went onstage. Doug told me "He looks 
like a college guy." This was not helpful as 
most of the people hanging around the Gray 
Matter looked like college students, but it 
was more than accurate. College shows are 
Taylor Mason's specialty because he relates 
so well to college students.
A brown-haired, round-faced boy from 
Chicago, Taylor Mason began performing in 
college, as many as four shows a month. 
Now Mason's comedy act comprises all of 
the skills he developed in college. He is a 
ventriloquist, a singer, a piano-player, and a 
stand-up comedian.
In addition to his standard ventriloquist's 
dummy, Reuben, Mason also incorporates 
semi-improvised phone calls to God and his 
own conscience, as well as his new 
character, Quasar. Quasar is a pale green, 
knobby-kneed alien with piercing green eyes 
who arrived as a surprise package from a 
woman who used to make Muppets. She 
apparently felt that Mason needed a little 
more weirdness in his act. Monday's show in 
Skibo Ballroom was only Quasar's second 
appearance.
One of the four original songs Mason 
performed was a semi-autobiographical hot 
rock piece about partying through college 
and on into life. It was easy to see the Joe 
College side of Taylor Mason when he sang 
lines like "The food is boring/Just like my 
English professor/And I hate the campus 
police." He also tore through a runaway 
bebop song that began as the piano's lament 
over the invention of the Casio keyboard.
Mason had obviously done his homework 
for his stand-up, because he knew what 
Carnegie Mellon students would laugh at. 
Pitt was the subject of one of his opening 
bits: "I think it’s an interesting name...it 
describes the University and it’s physical 
attributes." He also criticized a copy of The 
Student Union: "Great poetry, but the 
Sixties are over."
The audience would have been louder had 
the show taken place in the Wherrett room, 
where most of AB Coffeehouse's 
presentations occur. The crowd hardly made a 
dent in the spacious ballroom. Whatever big 
laughs there were got swallowed up by the 
empty air. In truth, there were fewer big 
laughs than general snickers throughout the 
show. Mason left a few gaps between jokes, 
and some of the lines seemed choppy and 
under-rehearsed, but this was partly because 
he was trying new material. Only a few 
jokes bombed entirely.
"If a show doesn't go well," says Mason, 
"it's my fault...this show wasn't the best 
show I've ever done, but it certainly wasn't a 
bad show." He was happy to find that 
Carnegie Mellon people got all the jokes. 
"It's nice to do a show where the SATs are 
over 400." Mason's performance lasted for 
an hour and a half. "My feeling was that 
everyone was so nice that I was going to 
give them their money's worth....if nothing 
else, they’ll say, 'Boy, he was up there a 
long time."
Mason graduated from the University of 
Illinois in ’80, and then spent a year working 
at piano-bars. Then he started noticing other 
Chicago lounge-lizard types in their sixties. 
He realized that he didn't wan't to be stuck in 
this high-paying but dead end job forever, so 
he went to graduate school. There he
discovered that he hated interviews, and 
couldn't stand the thought of spending his 
life behind a desk. Instead, he "blew that all 
off' to spend his life behind a microphone. 
Along the way he worked as a writer for 
Second City Improvisational Troupe where 
he met his wife who is currently a talent 
coordinator for the Nickelodeon cable 
company.
Mason isn't picky—he'll work anywhere 
they hire him, and he usually does 300 to 
350 shows a year. His past shows have 
been all over the scale, from private shows
By ALAN HAKJMOGLU
Special to the Tartan
The Island is a one-act play by Athol 
Fugard which explores the lives of two 
imprisoned political activists in South 
Africa. Although it is being presented by the 
Drama Department in the Studio Theatre, it 
is an independant project Something its 
director Seth Gordon (a grad student) and its 
cast, Bruce Faulk and Ron McClelland (both 
Junior acting majors) are working on soley 
because they feel it is important that the 
Carnegie Mellon community be exposed to 
the piece.
Athol Fugard was bom in the early 1930's 
in South Africa. The first play that he wrote 
was called The Blood Knot. The Blood Knot
in hotel suites to college shows to opening 
spots for Crystal Gayle, Tina Turner, and 
Spyro Gyra. Comedy has provided him with 
"a very lucrative way to live," though many 
people don't realize that comedy is the 
business that it is. "It’s such an open field 
you wouldn't believe it," says Taylor Mason 
of the career he chose because it had no desks 
to sit behind. Finally he summed it up with 
a joke in a child's voice; " Tommy's dad is a 
doctor, Larry's dad is a banker...what do you 
do for a living?' 'Well, I make fun of those 
people."
was first performed in 1960. It was 
performed privately because one of the two 
main characters is black, the other white, and 
under apartheid it is illegal for a black and a 
white to appear onstage together.
The Island was created through 
improvisations which were guided by 
Fugard, who directed the project and 
eventually took credit for writing it The 
main characters are prisoners of aparthied and 
manage to escape the inhumanity of the 
situation by maintaining their dignity.
The Island is being presented on Sunday, 
February 8th and Monday, February 9th in 
the Studio Theatre. The times will be 
posted.
AttentiKn: A,, T)ot)n St)ff Membeos
This evening s Editorial Board Meeting is open to all staff members.
If you work for the Tartan, you are invited to attend.
Leam what goes on behind the scenes.
Tonight: Tuesday, February 3 5:45pm in the Tartan office
A new play at Carnegie Mellon
\ United Way
Admission and scholarship
AUDITIONS
far advanced 
instrumental
The CalArts
kTH
Co ntee
and ita
ttudent/facuMy
20 Century Players
2/l*-17 Boston 
2/1« N 
2/1* Rochester 
2/20-21 Chicago 
2/22-28 Los Angeles 
2/2« San Francisco 
2/27 Seattle
3/» Ann Arbor
2/10 Btoomuigton 
2/U Cincinnati 
2/12 Datas 
2/10-17 New Yorfc 
2/10 Philadelphia 
2/1« Cleveland
1-800-292-ARTS (California)
1 -800-545- ARTS (National)
California Institute of the Arts 
24700 Me Bean Parkway 
Valencia, CA 91355 
ATTN: Stuart Horn, Admissions
SPEND THIS SUMMER iX MAINE
BE A COUNSELLOR AT KIPPEWA FOR GIRLSLocated on scenic Twelve Mile Lake. Winthrop, Maine.
OPENINGS IN THE FOLLOWING SKILLS:
swimming fWSI), sailing, waterskiing, canoeing, tennis, gymnastics, held sports, arts and crafts (ceramics, leather, macramè, sewing, stained glass, etc.), hiking, camping, secretarial, food service.PREFERENCE FOR SOPH'S-, IRS., SRS-, GRADS.Comart- The Silvennen*. P 0 Bo* 307. Westwood. MA. 020B00307 (S17) 7*2-8291.
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
Completing Second Year Undergraduate StudiesSCHOLARSHIP & SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Cleveland Pneumatic Company is seeking two persons for its newly established Manufacturing Engineering Technology Scholarship Program.
To qualify, you must:
• be completing second year studies;• be an Engineering (Mechanical or Industrial) major;• have top academic credentials including strong mathematics studies;• be a permanent resident of the Greater Cleveland area (family residence within 30 miles of Cleveland);• have an interest in the Manufacturing Engineering field.
Additional desirable credentials include:
• demonstrated skills or experience in Manufacturing Engineering;• manufacturing work experience;• knowledge of the aerospace industry
We are offering a scholarship for up to $9,000 plus summer employment for students who qualify for third and fourth year studies in the Manufacturing Engineering Programs at Boston University (Boston, MA) or Weber State(Ogden, UT).
To apply, send a letter of interest to;
Sarah Ollverlo, Cleveland Pneumatic Company, 3781 East 77th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105. An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/H.
ClevelandPneumatic
Pneumo
Landing Gear An nc 1b50AT»LeA Company

---------------------------------------------------

February 3,1987—The Tartan—Page Dll
Personals
Peej and Bopper
HAPPY 2ND
SWM willing to try anything seeks SF. 
Interests include classical music, jazz, 
hacking (a product of CMU, honest!), 
Chinese food, tennis, talking, and pro­
crastination. Send replies to The Tartan, 
Personals Dept, Skibo 50. Attn: B.K.
Classifieds
== Jobs/Wanted .
boes YIyCoU—White Water Raft Guides 
Mountain, Streams and Trails Outfitters, 
Ohiopyle, PA, Informational Meeting on 
Saturday, February 7 at 10:00am—5 miles 
North of Ohiopyle on route 381. Call 412- 
655-7310.
VIuuI8jvI1IUMuo -ueIyU w ts1Myd m1oIk 
from $299. z1dIyM*o a small d1_8s and earn I 
free trip, for more information contact 
American n1I0oe to10M5ou -y57 1-800-231-
0013.
bM1Myd n_UIa6 n_s vIa6 Work at home, 
no experience needed. Write Cottage
Industries, 1407 1/2 Jenkins, Norman,
Oklahoma 73069.
tnL”/VntB Y_1k r_1 t_5MIe FgIydo6
Turn classroom philosophy into ACTION by 
campaigning for enforcement of 
environmental laws.
CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT 
765-3053
Immediate opening with paid training 
program. Career opportunities with national 
citizens’ lobby. Earn $180+ bonus/week. 
Train part-time now to work full-time in 
summer. EOE.
Can you CoI5gN Princeton Review SAT 
Prep Course is looking for quick intelligent 
fun people to teach high school kids. Very 
fun job, very good pay. Contact Virginia 268- 
4873 (after 1 p.m.).
Work sI1CWCMDo _y 5IDs8u to organize 
students for enforcement of environmental 
laws. Politically minded and articulate people 
needed. Time management skills a must. 
Flexible hours. $25/day + bonus for qualified 
applicants. Call Anne Thomas at Clean Water 
Action 765-3053.
Summer FIDs F_8yuoe_1u needed for 
Brother/Sister camp in Waynesboro, PA: 
Positions available for men and women in : 
Arts & Crafts, Photography, Ham Radio, 
Science, Rocketry, Riflery, Archery, 
Swimming, Lake Front, Nature, Gymnastics, 
Tennis, Theatre, Piano, and all sports 
activities. Also needed, Unit Leaders, Pool & 
Lake Director. Y1MCo FIDs Director, 1 
Newtown Y__Uu KU7p Newtown Square, PA 
19703 _1 sg_yo (215) 353-0981.
nLnzKt V//”/” 9zK Yi:2W-V nLnzK-V— 
t/KO-F/ W 9MyIy5MIe i55_8yCMyd7 YoU IyU 
Thurs; /5_y_DM5u7 YoU IyU ng81up 7-10 sDp 
$3.50 g_81 W vg_yo F_8yuoeMyd FoyCo1p /3C7
2922.
=== Housing------
tgIUauMUo W PuC re__1 r_1 1oyC :I1do 
_yo ,oU1__D IsI1CDoyCp 0o1a usI5M_8up eI1do 
kMC5goyp eI8yU1a rI5MeMCMou7 i0IMeI,eo 
MDDoUMICoea7 Z?hh 47 HT?WPShG7 Y_l6
’IC81o V_yWuD_kMyd so1u_y C_ ugI1o 
5_*a t\7 bMee U8seo37 ZGhh 4 8CMeMCMou7 tg_1C 
CMDo 5_DDMCDoyC z27 ^GGWJHT?7 PJ DMy7
lIekWF’L7
Typing Services -------
bUting/Writing/MS. Typing.. free
eIy5o7 n8C_1Myd777/ydeMugp 91oy5gp /t:7 vg” 
My /ydeMug7 YMUo s1_rouuM_yIe o3so1Moy5o7 
’u7 2Ie, JGPWT?T?7
VIs_e_oy zrrM5o to10M5ouB Kou8Douj
Y_1U v1_5ouuMydj Y1MCMyd to10M5ouj ’IMeMyd 
:MuCj nasMydj vM5kW8s Q ”oeM0o1aj 
m__kkoosMydN —1IsgM5u7 ..462-7109.
...... Services =====
MINUTE-MAIDS For all your house­
keeping needs. Trained; Insured; Bonded, 
serving Pgh for 6 years. 682-3860.
"For the best in maids"
tIrop vo1DIyoyC bIM1 KoD_0Ie by
licensed Electrologist. Call Evie Wasosky at 
521-6234 after 5:00 for appointment or FREE 
CONSULTATION.
¦ For Sale ==
cH 9_1U —1IyIUI - 4 door, 6 cyl,
automatic transmission, vtjvmp A/C, AM-FM 
Cassette. Clean, reliable, and seeks new 
home. Call Mark @ 621-6572 days, 683- 
4262 evenings.
-------Travel-------
O-t-n V-FiKi—LiB Intensive Spanish
courses, family living and community work 
in Esteli. Scholarships available. Apply now
r_1 1987 uouuM_yu7 V-F ip v7z7 m_3 1409- 
F’p FID,1MUdop ’i 02238. (617) 497-7142.
tvK-V— mK/i2 OiFin-zV7 Dayton, 
Ft. Lauderdale, or South Padre TX. Starting at 
$139.00 7 nights Quad occupancy. Trans­
portation packages available. For infor­
mation call 1-800-222-4139. STUDENT
AGENTS WELCOME.
------ Special-------
EEEt/V” i Oi:/Vn-V/t —-9nEEE
We do it all for you; wrapping, packing, and 
shipping. WRAP AND PACK, 233 Spahr St. 
(off Ellsworth) • 441-7722 • Daily 9-5 • Free 
Parking • Open year round. zO/KV-—bnW 
Vin-zVY-”/WYzK:”Y-”/7
Rates:
1-20 wds $3.00
21-50 wds $5.00
Over 50 wds $8.00
Personal, Greek, and Classified ads are taken 
by mail or in our office, Skibo 50, only.
We can bill Classifieds after the last time 
they are run, but Personal and Greek ads 
must be prepaid.
PERSONALS
Next week The Tartan will 
be running a special section 
of Valentine's Day personal 
ads at a cost of only $2.00 per 
ad of 20 words or less.
Send you ad to The Tartan, 
c/o Skibo Info desk or drop 
it by our office, Skibo room 
50.
All ads must be prepaid.
Your best friend wanted the job.
Don't blame your friend for wanting the best.
We do too, at Data General.
In systems design, manufacturing, finance, sales 
and marketing, we hire people who have what it 
takes to see a project through to completion. Idea 
people with a good sense of follow-through tend 
to make it at Data General.
If that sounds like you, and you have the talent 
to succeed, talk to Data General before you talk to 
your best friend.
Send resumes to: Data General Corporation, 
College Relations Department, MS A237,4400 
Computer Drive, Westboro, Massachusetts 01580. 
Investing in people to make equal opportunity a 
reality.
On Campus Interviews February 18,1987 See Your Placement Office for Details.
JrDataGeneral
FI1oo1u I —oyo1ICM_y IgoIU7

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—January 27, 1987
iyy_8y5oDoyCu
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, 
February 18. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his secretary 
at 268-2200 to set up an appointment.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy 
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681-3181.
GALA KIs touuM_y7 Think you might be 
gay? Want to talk about it? To supplement 
its regular meetings, the CMU Gay and 
Lesbian Alliance is initiating a series of 
biweekly gatherings where you can discuss 
issues that are important to you in a casual 
and sympathetic environment. For details, 
contact GALA via campus mail c/o Skibo 
Information Desk or via computer mail to 
ga0y@tb. All responses are confidential.
K_yIeU K_DIy_ presents "Recent 
Abstractions" at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts, Fifth and Shady Avenues, through 
February 22. Gallery hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Saturday and 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday.
m8ge t5Moy5o FoyCo17 Laserium. Journey 
to an energetic and colorful world where 
blazing lights and magical images glow and 
gyrate to music by rock's most spectacular 
artists in Laserium, presented live under the 
stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through 
Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For current 
concerts call 321-5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Miniature Railroad and Village. A Buhl 
tradition that has delighted visitors for 
generations! Trains, boats and dozens of tiny 
animations keep audiences spellbound! This 
season's exhibit sets the turn of the century 
countryside in each of the four seasons -
- don;tmiss it at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; through March
1. For more information call 321-4300.
Observatory. Weather permitting, view 
Jupiter, Mars and other wonders visible in the 
night sky at 9 pm - 10:30 pm, Friday.
'The Violent Universe,” Veteran film actor 
Vincent Price takes audiences on a grand tour 
of "things that go bump in the night," the 
turbulent and dynamic activity of the universe 
in a seemingly tranquil starry night sky. 
Explore solar lasers, novae and supemovae, 
the milky Way’s violent explosions and 
black hole and the Big Bang- which is the 
fiery birth of the solar system itself at 2 pm, 
Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm and 7 pm, 
Thursday; 2 pm, 4:30 pm and 7 pm, Friday;
11 am, 2 pm, 4:30 pm and 7 pm, Saturday; 
and 2 pm, 4:30 pm and 7 pm, Sunday.
vdg7 veIag_8uo .8yM_1 FgMeU1oyfu 
ngoIC1o7 The Elves and the Shoemaker. 
Magic is the order of the day in this classic 
story! The poor shoemaker and his family 
are set upon by the evil Heckla. But the 
elves have a few tricks up their sleeves and 
save the day, at 11 am and 2:30 pm, 
Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, through 
March 29.
vMCCu,81dg veIag_8uo ngoIC1o7
Brighton Beach Memoirs. Rockwell Theatre 
at 2 pm and 7 pm, Sunday; 8 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday; through February 15. For 
ticket information call 621-4445.
^Tuesday
Movies
—_eU ”Mddo1u _r PS??p starring Joan 
Blondell, Ruby Keeler, Ginger Rogers, Dick 
Powell and Guy Kibbee. Busby Berkeley's 
spectacular dance sequences highlight this 
film about trying to produce a Broadway 
show. Highlights include "We're in the 
Money.” One of the best of the "Gold 
Diggers" series. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Special Events
91oy5g nI,eo7 The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Last call for /y1_eeDoyC My FI1yodMo 
’oee_y ”IaWFI1o7 Full-time CM faculty 
and staff have first priority to enroll children 
(2 1/2 through Kindergarten) in CM day-care 
and pre-school. Center open 7:15 am - 6 pm;
5 days/week. Hot lunch and two snacks every 
day. 25% reduction in fee for Carnegie 
Mellon employees. Call x2149 immediately 
for enrollment application. Only 100 
openings.
^Wednesday
’_0Mou
—1IyU b_Coep starring Greta Garbo, Joan 
Crawford, John Barrymore, Wallace Beery and 
Lionel Barrymore. What a great cast in this 
grand film about the lives, loves and 
intrigues of a group of guests at a Berlin 
hotel. Don’t miss this one. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
bMo1 2oMy i8udIydWV81 L,o1dIydp
sponsored by the Modem Languages Dept.. 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall, at 7 pm. 
Admission is free.
Lectures
”osC7 _r i15gMCo5C81o toDMyI17
"Design Alliance" is presented at 12:30 pm 
in CFA room 206.
Workshops
b_l C_ ’Iko Cgo ’_uC _r a_81
t8DDo17 Find answers to questions like: 
How do I look for a summer job? What are 
some of the avenues I should pursue? How do 
I find out what's "out there?" and "Who do I 
market myself to?" at 11:30 am in Skibo 
room 13.
FI1oo1 ”o5MuM_y ’IkMyd to1Mou
- Junior and Senior Section. A four session 
seminar designed to help you assess your 
interests and abilities, explore current career 
interests as well as new ideas, and form goals 
and strategies at 4 pm in Skibo room 112. 
Limited enrollment. Sign up at Career 
Services, x2064.
tso5MIe /0oyCu
tsIyMug nI,eo7 The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in die Morewood dining hall.
:IuC 5Iee for /y1_eeDoyC My FI1yodMo
’oee_y Day-Care. Full-time CM faculty and 
staff have first priority to enroll children (2 
1/2 through Kindergarten) in CM day-care and 
pre-school. Center open 7:15 am - 6 pm; 5
days/week. Hot lunch and two snacks every 
day. 25% reduction in fee for Carnegie 
Mellon employees. Call x2149 immediately 
for enrollment application. Only 100 
openings.
5Thursday
Movies
2Myd t_e_D_yfu ’Myoup starring 
Deborah Kerr, Stewart Granger and Richard 
Carlson. Fine adventure film about a safari 
looking for diamond mines. Good 
performance throughout. Pittsburgh
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
m8C5g FIuuMUa IyU Cgo t8yUIy5o 2MUp
sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 
pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
FI1yodMo FI1o LyMC ’ooCMyd7 Leading 
Pittsburgh orthopaedic surgeon Dana C. 
Mears, M.D. will be speaking about his 
orthopaedic practice and his active 
involvement in research in orthopaedics at
7:30 in Scaife Hall 301.
mM_oydMyoo1Myd —1IU8ICo toDMyI17
Dr. David Hackney, Biological Sciences, 
speaks on "Mechanism of the Acto-Myosin 
ATPase of Muscle" at 12:30 pm in DH 1102. 
A light lunch is served at noon prior to the 
seminar and a question- and-answer session 
follows.
”osCp _r vua5g_e_da F_ee_\8M8D7 Dr.
Anita Delongis, University of Michigan, 
speaks on "Stress and Coping in 
Interpersonal Perspective" at noon in BH, 
room 336-B. Coffee is served in the 
Psychology Lounge, BH, room 336- D, prior 
to the lecture.
iDo1M5Iy iuu_5MICM_y _r LyM0o1uMCa 
Y_Doy ”Mu58uuM_y7 "Great Decisions" is 
presented at 9:30 am at Monroeville Library, 
lower level. The discussions are held every 
Thursday through March. Topics include: 
The United States and its international affairs 
with Egypt, the Pacific Basin, South Africa. 
Books can be bought for $10. For more 
information call Carmen Grosse at 372-0399.
Workshops
-yCo10MolMyd tkMeeu7 Calm anxieties by 
learing about the format of a screening 
interview and how to prepare for it at 4:30 
pm in Skibo room 13.
Special Events
—o1DIy nI,eo7 The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language Table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
English Table. The ESL (English as a Second 
Language) center sponsors an English Table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Last call for /y1_eeDoyC My FI1yodMo 
’oee_y ”IaWFI1o7 Full-time CM faculty 
and staff have first priority to enroll children 
(2 1/2 through Kindergarten) in CM day-care 
and pre-school. Center open 7:15 am - 6 pm;
5 days/week. Hot lunch and two snacks every 
day. 25% reduction in fee for Carnegie 
Mellon employees. Call x2149 immediately 
for enrollment application. Only 100 
openings.
^Friday
Movies
v_1ka vMd My b_eeal__U7 Fourteen
brand new cartoons, most of which star Porky 
Pig, from the Warner animation studios. 
Directed by Tex Avery, Fritz Freleng, Bob
Clampett and Chuck Jones. All in black and 
white. These cartoons have not been seen for
years. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and
9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
9_81 Y_Doyp YICo1 KMC8Ie •PB An
Urban Rite of Purification and A Different 
Image. The first two films honor the interior 
complexity of black women with a poetic and 
experimental style. A Different Image is a 
powerful response to the obliteration or 
misuse of black women in Western art. The 
guest lecturer is Clyde Taylor. The Carnegie 
Museum of Art at 8 pm. Admission $3.
ngo Fly, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
^Saturday
Movies
me8o Ooe0oCp starring Kyle Maclachlan, 
Isabella Rosselline, Kennis Hopper and Laura 
Dem. A shocker of a film from the director 
of "Eraserhead" and "Elephant Man." A 
young man tries to solve a mystery and gets 
involved with a drug dealer and a nightclub 
singer. One of the most erotic films of the 
year. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:40 
pm and 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
”_yfC :__k V_l7 Once again Roeg 
plunges the viewer into a formerly peaceful 
ordered world transformed by death into one 
full of sharp foreboding. This occult 
melodrama is adapted from a story by Daphne 
du Maurier about an architect and his wife 
who lose their young daughter in an
accidental drowning. Set in the rotting 
grandeur of Venice, the fil's atmosphere and 
style skillfully convey Roeg's subtext of fear 
and uncertainty. Carnegie Museum of Art at 8 
pm. Admission $3.
Clue, sponsored by SIX! Films. DH 2210 at
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Special Events
—IDMyd Fe8, ’ooCMyd7 Open gaming 
meeting. Relax with a game - try anything 
from Dungeons and Dragons to your favorite 
board game or strategy game. Meeting at 1 
pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Check the 
bulletin board at the Skibo information desk. 
For more information call x4217.
^Sunday
Movies
ngo t5I1eoC vMDso1yoep starring Leslie
Howard and Merle Oberon. A dashing, fun-
filled adventure with Leslie Howard as a 
double agent aiding innocent victims of the 
French Revolution, even as he remains a hero 
of the British court. Delightful. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
ngo ’8ssoC ’_0Mop sponsored by AB 
Films. DH at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $1.
Music
”osC _r ’8uM5 F_y5o1C Philharmonic 
Orchestra conducted by Sydney Harth,
performs at 8 pm in the Carnegie Music Hall, 
Forbes Avenue, Oakland.
KoyIMuuIy5o FMCa YMyU Music 
t_5MoCa F_y5o1C The Renaissnace City 
Woodwind Quintet, Western Pennsylvania's 
oldest professional chamber music ensemble, 
performs at 2:30 pm in Carlow College's 
Kresge Theatre. For tickets call 421-2183.
QMonday
Movies
tDMeop starring Bruce Dem, Barbara Feldon 
and Michael Kidd. Terrifically funny satire 
about the behind-the-scenes activity at a 
beauty contest in California. Basis for the 
current Broadway play "Smile." 
Underestimated at the time it was released. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
boIeCgr8e ’_yUIau :8y5gCMDo
toDMyI17 Bring a bag lunch and listen to 
and participate with a speaker presenting 
"Diet and Nutrition" at 11:30 in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo.
Check classifieds for
Valentine's Day Special.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in ngo 
nI1CIyp send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between AY and 
Am).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event, 
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
Send Announcements and Events submissions to ACME, c/o University Relations, 5017 Forbes Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Anti-Apartheid Paperman Speaks Out
By LISA D. MCANANYEditor-in-Chief
The plight of the South Afican print media 
worsens as the white supremacist govern­
ment enjoins ever stricter regulation of 
privately-owned publications. The desire to 
maintain a semblance of normalcy within 
the nation's borders has already reduced the 
broadcast content of publicly-owned radio 
and television concerns to the level of 
apolitical fluff.
Newspapers with largely white readerships 
like Rapport and the main (white) edition of 
The Star, South Africa's most widely-read 
daily, skew their editorial policies to fit the 
pro-apartheid stance of the government. 
Many of the newspapers that cover the 
increasing tension and violence in the 
country eventually falter due to government 
harassment.
The Daily Dispatch newspaper, with over 
50% black readership, offered daring coverage 
of political issues back in the mid-seventies. 
During this period, then editor - Donald 
Woods wrote a series of provocative 
columns covering subjects from the role of 
Christian clergymen in South Africa to the 
death of his friend Stephen Biko in 1977. 
Selected columns from 1975-1977 make up 
the soon-to-be-published book South African 
Dispatches: Letters to My Countrymen, 
compiled by Woods.
The book makes for quick but informative 
reading. Woods' satire is well-constructed and 
perfectly aimed. The tone of the columns 
acts as a barometer of the political climate in 
South Africa. The earlier columns, although 
caustic, still reflect Woods' hopes for 
peaceful reform. These pieces point out the 
ludicrous contradictions inherent in the 
apartheid system. "Dampie, Dampie, Sluk, 
Sluk" ridicules the blatant misinformation 
broadcast over Afrikaaner-language radio.
Woods also pokes fun at the notion that 
anything anti-government reflects the red 
menace in "Konkordat with the Kremlin" and 
continued on Page 14
SOUTHAFRICANDISPATCHESLetters to My Countrymen 
By Donald Woods
Club Spotlight: Scotch n' Soda 
It's not a drinking society
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter
To many people, Scotch n' Soda is the 
club responsible for some of the plays 
performed on campus. Perhaps you think 
this is a club that the drama students 
participate in during their spare time. 
Maybe you even think that the club 
members participate by merely acting in the 
plays. Actually, it's neither.
Scotch n' Soda, then known as the White 
Friars, was founded in 1907 by some 
Carnegie Tech students who produced 
original musical revues. The present Scotch 
n' Soda, known for its past productions such 
as "The Murder Room" and "Who's Afraid of 
Virginia Woolf?", is in fact the only drama 
organization on campus which allows non- 
majors to pursue theatre work. For 
example, it allows engineers and designers to 
participate in any aspect of production, such 
as costume designing, make up, playwriting, 
acting, or directing. Elizabeth Rueger, the 
President of Scotch n' Soda, comments that 
this is the organization for people who love 
working in the theatre but for some reason 
don't have the time or the desire to be full­
time theatre majors." The result is a group 
°f students with a sincere interest in drama 
forking together to produce at least one 
major play annually.
Since this is an organization in which its 
members are responsible for most, if not all, 
°f the aspects of a show, some of the plays 
performed are written by the students 
themselves. "A Storyville Rag," to be
continued on Page 14
For the birds
Starting this Saturday and Sunday at 
the Pittsburgh Aviary are a series of 
programs that start at 11 am and 
continue until 4 pm, sponsered by the 
Pittsburgh Aviary Volunteer Inter­
preters.
These weekend programs will include 
live demonstration, a display on 
attracting wild birds, storytelling for 
children and informal tours of the 
Aviary.
There is no additional charge for any of 
the programs, just the regular admission 
price to the Aviary. And what is that 
price? $1.50 for Adult residents; $2.00 
for non-residents. 75 cents for all 
children; those young and those over the 
age of 60 (the young at heart). Still 
want more information? Just call the 
Pittsburgh Aviary at 323-7235.
Seuss is still loose!
The Carnegie has the "Dr. Seuss from 
Then to Now" exhibit continuing until 
the end of February but this Saturday 
will be focused on the book Horton 
Hatches the Egg.
There will be live animals with their 
babies at the museum all day. In 
addition there will be a Gallery Talk at 
2:00.
Finally a puppet show called "Puppets 
at an Expedition" is being performed at 
11:00, 1:30 and 3:00. It is about two 
children who explore the Carnegie 
Museum of Art after hours when the 
paintings and furniture come alive...
Meet me at Mount 
Washington.,«
Want the best view of Downtown 
Pittsburgh? Just want to get away from 
the University? Have I gotta deal for 
you!
Mount Washington is the area that is 
on the cliff that faces the south side of 
downtown. The Monongahela Incline at 
Station Square will take you up there for 
the low price of oily sixty cents.
Once you go up to Mount Washinton 
tee are a few observation decks and 
you can look over the city.
A recommendation is to go at night 
because the lights of the city really 
make a beutiful sight 
How to get there? Simple, grab any of 
the buses going down Forbes Avenue 
and get off at Kaufmans. Any of the 
buses that are running towards Station 
Square will get you to Station Square. 
The Incline itself is behind Station 
Square running up the side of the 
mountain. Round-trip costs $1.20 and 
you pay at the top so be ready once you 
get off.
Up, Up and Away %%%
This coming thursday at 4 pm is the 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis 
Balloon Launch. About two-thousand 
balloons will be launched 
Balloons are just a dollar apiece and 
you have a chance at winning a vacation 
if your balloon goes farther than any of 
the others. Balloons are on sale all this 
week in Morewood Gardens and Baker 
Hall.
Finally,
City Lights will be running a special 
list of things to do on Valentine 
weekend. If you hear of something that 
you think belongs in here just write care 
of The Tartan or call x2111.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—Tlw Tartan—February 3,1987
MCN: How to Hack Happily at Home
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Managing Editor
Scenario: It's late on a Sunday evening. 
You're in a small room, lit dimly by the 
green glow of your personal computer 
monitor. You’ve been writing this 
program/paper/novel for too many hours that 
you can’t even remember. You're logged 
onto the mainframe via a modem and your 
phone. You have a question, but to call 
someone means to log off, make your call, 
and log back on. A real waste of time. 
Meanwhile, your lab partner has been trying 
to call you for several days trying to remind 
you that the lab report is due Monday 
evening and you forgot all about it (you also 
have all the data...)
Carnegie Mellon, in conjunction with Bell 
of Pennsylvania, has come up with a novel 
way to solve this, and other such dilemmas 
for not only the student but also for faculty, 
administration, and anyone using the 
school's mainframes; Metropolitan Campus 
Network (MCN).
MCN is a wide area data communication 
network designed to provide data 
connectivity from private residences in the 
surrounding neighborhoods to Carnegie 
Mellon computers. MCN allows a person to 
place and receive voice telephone calls while 
transmitting data at the same time - over the 
same telephone line. It runs on the standard 
phone lines in and significantly increases 
data speeds between your home, apartment, 
dorm or office without interrupting voice 
communications.
MCN uses user-owned data-over-voice 
(DOV) modems in the home to transmit 
signals to the dedicated data-switching 
equipment operated by Bell of Pennsylvania. 
They have installed data-switching
Comeglt Melton
lllmtration by Dave Levy
equipment in three central offices to forward 
the data over high speed links to Carnegie 
Mellon's computing resources.
Currently, MCN is available in East 
Liberty, Oakland/Shadyside, and Squirrel 
Hill, the three communities with the highest 
concentration of Carnegie Mellon Students. 
It operates at 9600 baud and interfaces with 
the Micom for connection to the 
computation center mainframes, and a 
terminal connector for connection via Telnet 
software to the campus Andrew TCP/IP 
network.
All that is needed for MCN operation is a 
terminal, workstation, or a PC with an 
async communications board and Kermit 
2.28 terminal emulation software, a data-
Look who just rode into town.
Now you can catch Greyhound at the following stops on Friday and Sunday to almost 
anywhere in America. Because Greyhound goes more places, more often than anyone else.
EASTBOUND SERVICE
Forbes and Stevenson (Duquesne University)
Forbes and Halket (Carlow College)
Forbes and Schenley (University of Pittsburgh)
Forbes and Morewood (Camegie-Mellon University)
WESTBOUND SERVICE
Forbes and Morewood (Camegie-Mellon University)
Fifth and Bigelow (University of Pittsburgh)
Fifth and Chesterfield (Carlow College)
Blvd. of the Allies and Marion (Duquesne University)
So next time you go, go Greyhound. From any of our four locations.
Call today for complete fare and schedule information.
*Tickeb must be pwchued m advance
GREYHOUND IS NOW OPEN FOR BUSINESS AT THESE FOUR LOCATIONS:
University Travel (University of Pittsburgh)
3955 Fortes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
621-3492 *
Carnegie-Mellon University Campus
Skibo Hall
World Wise Travel Room 40A 
531-5555
HOURS: 8:30 AM - 5:00 PM Monday-Friday HOURS: 1:00 PM - 5:00 PM Monday-Friday
Carlow College Campus
Security Office 
578-6344
HOURS: 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM Monday-Friday HOURS: 8:00 PM - 3:00 PM Monday-Friday
University 
Duquesne Union Hall 
434-6633
AW'Û
GO GREYHOUNDAnd leave the driving to us.
I*WU < iroiliimwd I mts. tm
over-voice modem which is available at the 
computer store, and an RS-232C cable for 
modem-computer connection.
The MCN system costs an initial 
installation fee of $100.00 payable to the 
computer store. Once paid, and a Gandalf 
data-over-voice modem (DOV 640) is 
purchased, Bell of Pennsylvania will install 
MCN service within several days. After it is 
installed, there is a monthly fee of $25 (for a 
full calander year of service), regardless of 
usage.
MCN is just another step in the 
advancement of computing at Carnegie 
Mellon. The whole strategy, as summarized 
by Robert E. Cape, Carnegie Mellon director 
of telecommunications is to "energize and
motivate creative people by letting them do 
their computing where they are comfortable 
yet affording them access to all the 
information resources of the university's 
central database and on-line applications."
Cape stated that, "At CMU, we've turned 
the comer from time-sharing to the 
distributed personal computer. Obviously 
communications is the glue that binds it all 
together." With the new implementation of 
this MCN program, the school has 
temporarily, at least, rivaled the proclaimed 
ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) 
a European-inspired voice-and-data concept 
slated for trials in early 1987, but not 
becoming fully functional for two more 
years. Although not quite as advanced as 
ISDN, MCN provides DOV integration of 
circuit-switched voice and data at ISDN 
speed, using existing central-office and 
terminal equipment.
Plans for the expansion of MCN are not at 
all limited. The ultimate goal for the future 
is to provide synchronous connections at 
64,000 bps with direct access to the Andrew 
network. With Carnegie Mellon's migration 
away from centralized computing resources 
to the distributed Andrew-based environment, 
Micom service will be phased out and the 
MCN will become the extension of Andrew 
for the home.
MCN is an efficient, high speed, 
affordable, and convenient mode of data 
transfer whose introduction may have 
overcome one of the last major roadblocks 
toward the Andrew-based campus.
For more information, or to subscribe to 
MCN, contact the Telecommunications 
Department (268-2642) or stop by at the 
University Computing Center.
THE OAKLAND REVIEW
Carnegie Mellon's undergraduate literary annual
is interested in your creative works:
-Poetry 
-Short Stories 
-Essays
-Photography
-Artwork
Please send your submissions to:
Editor
The Oakland Review 
Skibo 53
DEADLINE: Friday, February 13, 1987.
Partially funded by your student activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

February 3,1987—The Tartan—Page 13
Just a coupla' thoughts from Gray Matter
By LESLIE E. GERSTENFELD
Special to The Tartan
The other day I was sitting in my room, 
all alone, twiddling my thumbs and 
watching my Lava Lamp bubble, when I 
suddenly realized that I was BORED. It 
seems impossible, I know, because Lava 
Lamps are REALLY interesting (if you’ve 
ever seen one you know what I mean), but 
nevertheless, I was incredibly bored. So, I 
decided to pick myself up and do something 
exciting. Something bold and daring. Life in 
the fast lane. I went to GRAY MATTER.
It was rather nippy out, so I got my coat 
on, buttoned it all the way up (my mother 
would have been proud), pulled some gloves 
on and wrapped my polka-dotted scarf around 
my neck. I didn't put on a hat because I don't 
believe in them; they go against my 
personal philosophy- fashion before 
function. After my hat-skipping ritual, I 
grabbed my Cashstream card, parted the 
beaded curtain in the doorway and set out for 
an afternoon of thrills, spills, and romance.
My step was brisk, alive with the 
exhilerating prospect of a session of people- 
watching. My pace slowed, as it always 
does, when I reached the foreboding and evil 
REVOLVING DOOR. My blood turned 
cold, my heart stopped; I staggered 
backwards. I HATE revolving doors. I mean 
I really despise them. They scare the living 
daylights out of me. I have nightmares 
where I see myself caught spinning at 
60mph in a door with a mind of its own. 
But I had to get inside - those carpet-covered 
blocks were calling my name. So I braced 
myself, closed my eyes, and pushed myself 
through. I guess I pushed too far, though, 
because when I opened my eyes I was still 
outside. "This is silly," I thought to myself. 
"No time for games." So I entered the 
building though the lower level doors, got 
some money with my Cashstream card, 
bought some munchies at Entropy and 
climbed the stairs to my destination.
I seated myself in the most conspicuous 
place (you know the one-that back comer 
step that's about 2 feet higher than 
everything else) and just watched. Directly in 
front of my, in a little sunken cubbyhole, 
was a guy reading a "Decision Processes" 
textbook. Upon closer inspection, however, 
I noticed that he was no longer reading, but 
sleeping. Perfectly understandable, because 
D.P. is not the most interesting course. 
Well, anyway, after empathizing with Mr. 
Sleepyhead for a while, I noticed a slight 
commotion off to my left and focused my 
attention on that
There I saw a girl and her boyfriend, 
huddled very close together and obviously 
having an argument of some sort. I couldn't 
hear what they were saying, but I could read 
their lips. I could tell that she'd been crying, 
because there was mascara dripping all over 
her face. It was not a pretty sight. "Oh, 
honey, don't cry," he pleaded. "Well, dear," 
she sighed," "Its just that I'm so upset about 
what's happening to us." "But I love you, 
snookums," he protested. "And I love you, 
too, honeybuns," she agreed. ( Oh, gross!) 
Then they started hugging and kissing and I 
thought, "Aw, get a room!". They must've 
been telepathic because just then they got up 
and left Young love, how precious.
Speaking of precious, have you ever just 
sat and watched a game of D&D? Take it 
from me - it's not one of the world's greatest 
spectator sports. I'd much rather watch a 
good rollicking game of chess, anyday. But, 
hey - that's just me. In the interest of 
science, I forced myself to watch, hoping to 
pick up some clues to the game. If finally 
dawned on me somehow that you have to 
listen to the dialogue to understand what's 
going on! So, I went over to these guys and 
sat down next to them and said," Hey guys - 
heh - what's goin' on?" Now for those of 
you who don't understand, this "heh" that
I've interjected is an audio-visual kind of 
thing. Picture, if you will, your Calculus 
professor excitedly integrating his life away 
at the blackboard. Every so often, as he steps 
back to review his work, his hand holding 
the oversized pole of chalk jerks up in an 
involuntary pointing gesture and he utters a 
soft, gutteral "heh!" Get it?
Okay, so one guy responds, "Well, heh, 
we're playing D&D, why?" "Can I listen?" I 
asked. They discussed this idea for a few 
moments and chorused a definitive,"No." I 
couldn't understand why - did they think I 
was a Russian spy? A detective of the 
Fashion Police coming to arrest them for the 
heinous crime of double-strapping? I guess ril never know.
I glanced at my TropicanaOrangeJuice- 
FifteenProofs-of-Purchase watch and noticed 
that it was almost 6 o’clock. Time for me to 
watch Star Trek! So I grabbed my coat and 
scarf and gloves, checked to see that I hadn't 
brought a hat, and bid a fond "farewell" to 
the ol' Gray Matter. As I was leaving, I saw 
some poor schmo catch his foot on the 
comer of a step and go flying into the group 
by Dan Dohan of D&D players. I had to laugh. It was a 
Something bold and daring. Life in the fast lane. I went to GRAY MATTER. very amusing afternoon.
'lâttuwia
From TERADYNE
u Very Large Scale Invitation
from a Technology Leader
In electronics, the era of very large scale integration (VLSI) bas arrived, leaving many 
companies with products suddenly obsolete and engineering staffs struggling to catch up.
But not Teradyne. Thanks to SI65 million spent onR&D from 1981-1985, Teradyne was 
ready and waiting for VLSI.
Ready with VLSI memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, hoard testers.
Ready in Boston, Massachusetts, and Woodland Hills, California, where Teradyne 
develops ATE for the electronics industry.
Ready in Deerfield, Illinois, center for Teradyne’s telephone system testing operations.
Ready in Nashua, New Hampshire, where Teradyne produces backplane connection sys­
tems and state-of-the-art circuit hoard technology designated to meet VLSI requirements.
This kind of technology leadership 
spells growth. Excitement.
Challenge. Career opportunities 
you just can 7 find anywhere elseSHARE
ead of its time, IN OURSUCCESS
ahead of its time, 
looking for some good 
people to keep it ahead.
For more information, see 
your Placement Counselor.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—February 3,1987
aI’m so depressed. It was my brother’s birthday 
last night and I was in charge of making the cake.
“Well, I made the cake, a great big triple-fudge 
layer cake and before it even got a chance to cod, 
1 ate the whole thing plus an entire can of fudge- 
swirl icing. I ate the Very Vanilla ice-cream, too, 
a gallon of it.
“Of course, I felt bad about the cake, but its no 
big deal about the calories. I just made myself barf 
the whole thing up.
“The party was awful... one of our family’s 
famous get-togethers, and of course I ate like a pig, 
so 1 had to make myself throw up again. I took a 
handful of laxatives, too. It’s funny. My family
hasn’t the faintest idea how I can eat so much and 
not gain weight.
“I hate these stupid get-togethers. How can I feel 
like such an outsider in my own family?**
—Betsy, 22, bulimia victim 
Betsy is not alone. She is one of an estimated 
500,000 young women in the U.S. suffering from 
the eating disorder known as bulimia.
This binge/puige addiction is a vicious cycle 
that wreaks havoc on the victim’s teeth, kidneys
Tri-State Eating Disorders Center At The Medical CenterBeavo, M, be.
Phhh ”8C5g KMUdo K_IUjmoI0o1p voyyuae0IyMI PJhhS
and intestines as well as the bulimic’s personal 
and professional life. Sometimes, the cycle ends 
in death from heart failure or a ruptured stomach.
At The Medical Center, we’ve developed a 
comprehensive program to meet the special needs 
erf patients with eating disorders. Through our 
Tri-State Eating Disorders Center, we’ve helped 
both patients and their families understand and 
cope with these problems.
For confidential information, call toll free 
1-800-622-2832 in Pennsylvania; 1-800-782-2832 
outside Pennsylvania. Professionals are available 
to answer your questions 24 hours a day.
Don’t let an eating disorder consume your life.
Spotlight on Scotch n' Soda
continued from vIdo 11
performed this April, is an example. In fact, 
this is how the popular Carnegie Mellon 
originals "Pippin" and "Godspell" were 
started.
The activities of Scotch n’ Soda extend 
further than production of plays. Last year, 
they held two weekly workshops on acting 
(headed by Tamar Copeland) and play writing 
(headed by Michele Osherow and Elayne 
Tobin). Rueger explains: "We had the
playwriting workshop write out some 
original skits...and we combined them. We 
had the acting workshop do what the writing 
workshop produced. It was a lot of fun." 
Because of the favorable response and 
turnout, they plan to continue these 
workshops this year as well.
As mentioned earlier, one need not be 
majoring in drama or related areas to 
participate. As Rueger points out, they 
"always get a wide range of talent from the 
different majors." In fact, there aren't as 
many members who plan to major in these 
fields as one might expect. However, "just 
because we don't normally have drama 
students here doesn't mean we're on bad 
terms with the drama students at all." 
Rueger herself is a creative writing major, 
and appreciates the fact that Scotch n' Soda 
enables students like herself to demonstrate 
their ability and satisfy their aspirations in 
theatre production. Putting it simply, "it is 
an organization which allows you to be as 
expressive as you like."
Feel free to contact Scotch n' Soda anytime 
about joining or for more information at 
x3522.
Scotch n' Soda's next production is "A 
Storyville Rag," written by former CMU 
students, Lauren Schneider and Scott Grogan 
(currently the business manager of Scotch n' 
Soda) and directed by Alan Hakimoglu. It 
opens on April 9, 1987 in the Skibo 
ballroom.
Book Review: 
South African 
Dispatches
continued from Pag« 11
other columns. Throughout the collection, 
Woods also targets then Prime Minister 
Vorster for his record as a Nazi-sympathizer 
in World War II;
After the student race riots in Soweto in 
1976, the columns take on a subtly darker 
cast. Woods addresses the white ignorance of 
rising tensions. The writing becomes more 
pessimistic about the possibility of 
reforming the white minority government 
and avoiding bloodshed. In a series of open 
letters to high-ranking politicians, Woods 
brings into high relief the primitive nature 
of apartheid and the officials'who propagate 
it.
After Biko’s death in September 1977, 
Woods loses his sense of humor and he no 
longer restrains his bitterness. He calls into 
question the hunger-strike explanation of 
Biko’s death. He demands an inquest and the 
resignation of Police Minister Kruger. The 
revelation that Biko had been beaten to death 
caused an international stir in the press and 
Kruger was eventually drummed out of his 
job and the governing party. Woods was 
finally arrested and confined to his home. 
After a threat on the lives of his five children 
in January 1978, he engineered an escape 
from the country with his wife and family 
and now lives in Britain.
During the seventies, The Daily Dispatch 
was a uniquely configured business. The 
only shareholders were the staff of the 
newspaper and the all seven members of the 
board of directors were also executives at the 
newspaper. With a new editor and pressure 
from the government rising, the Dispatch 
adopted a more conservative, pro-government 
stance after Woods left in 1978.
Tartan Features presents: The photo caption contest!
zkIa r_eku CgMu Mu a_81 
,Md 5gIy5o C_ lMy I 
rI,8e_8u u8so1 U8so1 
uso5CI58eI1 IDI*Myd
s1M*o6 Yof0o d_C D_0Mo 
sIuuou r_1 Cg_uo e85ka
rM1uC rol so_seo lg_ 
uoyU 8u I 5IsCM_y7
ngo ’_0Mo Mu $$91_D 
Cgo bMs= uCI11Myd .8UU 
Voeu_y Iu Iy _rrW,oICeIlao17
-r a_8 gI0o Iy MUoI r_1 
I 5IsCM_y A8uC s8C MC My 
5IDs8u DIMe C_B vg_C_
FIsCM_yp ngo nI1CIyp 
K__D Jhp tkM,_7 Vo3C
look lofee 18y Cgo ,ouCp 
u_ U_ MC“ a_8f0o d_C 
y_CgMyd C_ e_uop IyU a_8 
5Iy lMy r1oo sIuuou C_ =91_D Cgo bMs7=
vIuuou 5_81Coua _r Cgo 
vMCCu,81dg 9MeD v1_D_CM_yu 
F_DsIya7

---------------------------------------------------

^ M
SZHZHUAN COI IK/MKT
Szechuan Gourmet ranks with 
best for Asian eating
The only Oriental Restaurant rated by Robert 
M. Bianco of the Pittsburgh Press in the TOP 
TEN BEST RESTAURANTS reviewed in 1985. 
“If you are willing to be adventurous, dinner 
here is as close as you can get locally to a New 
York Chinatown meal. ”
Celebrate The Year of the Tiger with a special 
Banquet of a traditional Chinese meal.
Make Your Reservations Now
799 Mtfwrta St.
FOO Meek RBOE Wahwt St)
Lunoli S Pkwier • Teke-Out • Benquets • Cocktail«
683-1763
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2992
After 5:00 pm, an answering sen/ice operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................... ............................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection............................................................................. 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid............................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
Women'sHealthServices«
Gyne Care that is 
Woman-Centered
• Professional & Convenient
• Female V (Dale Practitioners
• Complete Check-ups
• Contraceptive Services
During your check-up, 
ask for your free copy of 
Our Bodies, Ourselves.
Appointments 
y Information 
562-1900
107 Sixth Street 
Downtown 
Pittsburgh
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups of students who 
would like to be considered for residency in one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person apartment in the Margaret
Morrison residence complex. In order to be eligible for consideration as a Special 
Interest House, a student group must have at least eight members, and one or two 
alternates if at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest Houses 
is to encourage situations where the living environment compliments the learn­
ing opportunities of the residents involved and where specific educational goals 
outlined by the member-residents are understood and enhanced.
If more than 4 groups of students submit applications for these Special Interest
Houses, a decision will be based on a comparison of the educational goals presented 
and the likelihood of serious educational benefit being derived from residency in 
this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office and must be filled out and 
returned by:
February 16, 1987
Deadline
eierY01**
Our reputation stands for quality 
haircare and up to the minute 
styling...all at affordable prices. Our clients know. Just ask one.
TheTheDESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25.00only $13.00only $8.00
Complete with writtenComplete with shampooCut only
guaranteeand blow style
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at
MUST HAVE COUPON
SÂVE~$2.Ô0
on I
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Compíete with shampoo ! styling
- zrro1 /3sM1ou
9o,18I1a 28, 1987
NOAPPORT HA NT NECfcSSAPv_ CHUTammMi1,Is5u5_C arn,snggI,u
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—February 3,1987
Latest Details on UAA Released
By JOHN FRIEDMAN
Tartan Contributing Editor
Becoming a "national institution" is a 
prime objective of Carnegie Mellon. Now 
that same philosophy is being applied to 
athletics. Last June, Carnegie Mellon 
helped charter the University Athletic 
Association, an athletic conference 
"committed to the principle that a program 
of athletics must be conducted in a manner 
consistent with the central educational 
process of its member institutions."
The members of the UAA are all known 
more for their academics than athletics. The 
other charter members are Johns Hopkins, 
New York University, Emory, University of 
Chicago, Case Western Reserve, University 
of Rochester, and Washington University in 
St Louis.
Most of these schools, like Carnegie 
Mellon, are involved in regional conferences 
formed by geographic proximity rather than 
the character of the schools involved. 
Carnegie Mellon Vice President J. Pat 
Crecine, who helped form the UAA, 
disagrees with the regional approach, "The 
UAA schools are all very similar to us...our 
involvement with them goes beyond 
athletics."
The UAA doesn't mean the immediate end 
of Carnegie Mellon's involvement in the 
Presidents' Athletic Conference, since the 
Tartans will retain dual conference 
membership. But Carnegie Mellon's Crecine 
made it clear that when Carnegie Mellon 
has to choose between the two conferences, 
the UAA will win out.
The football, soccer, and basketball teams, 
who will play full seasons of UAA 
competition, still have heavily PAC-
dominated schedules for the time being. In 
other sports, where the UAA will sponsor 
weekend "festivals," PAC opponents should 
remain to fill out team schedules.
Carnegie Mellon's participation in the 
UAA began last October with an unofficial 
conference matchup versus Case Western 
Reserve in football, a game dubbed the 
"Academic Bowl." The men's basketball 
team has been particularity active, traveling 
to New York to face NYU and Chicago, and 
participating in a tournament at San Diego 
over New Years versus the University of 
Rochester .
Official conference play begins with the 
next school year. Although virtually all 
teams will face UAA opponents, the 
basketball team will see the most action. All 
UAA schools are scheduled to play Carnegie 
Mellon at least once in basketball next year, 
with two-game matchups scheduled for 1988- 
89.
The meaning of the UAA to the student 
body go beyond the althletes involved in 
varsity play. Crecine hopes that playing 
better known schools will encourage fan 
support of the varsity teams. He thinks that 
students would much rather see the Tartans 
face New York University or Johns Hopkins 
than Thiel or Grove City.
One other way non-athletes can get 
involved in the UAA is a design contest 
being held to replace the present conference 
logo. The UAA members were confident 
enough in their own schools that the contest 
is limited to members of the university 
community of the 8 conference members.
The UAA/s formation will affect more than 
who graces the Tartans' schedule; it holds 
implications for the facilities the games are
played in. If Carnegie Mellon athletics are 
moving to a higher level, there is a feeling 
that the fields and gymnasiums must also be 
attended to in order to reach a level 
comparable to other UAA institutions. NYU 
and Emory have recently built new athletic 
complexes, and Washington has completed a 
major renovation.
Even though the conference sponsors are 
still busily at work launching the UAA, the 
winds of expansion are already blowing. 
Brandeis College has put in to become a 
member, an application that seems likely to 
be approved. Brandeis was almost a charter 
member, particpating in the original UAA 
meetings but withdrawing due to internal 
conflicts.
If any more members are admitted to the 
University Athletic Association, they must 
meet the requirement of academic caliber 
applied to the charter members. That 
requirement is one of the things that makes 
the UAA unique. It is not just another 
athletic conference, but almost an affiliation 
between the schools who recognize a 
common bond in academics, athletics, and 
philosophy.
Men’s 
Hoops
Continued from Page 20
Mellon down 81-79, Hart Coleman missed a 
jumper and sophomore forward was called for 
going over the back of Hiram's Greg Pajak 
who promptly converted both free throws of 
the one and one. On the next posession, 
Coleman got charged for a foul, and on 
defense fouled Pajak to send him to the line 
once more, the Hiram forward missed both 
free throws and Carnegie Mellon called time 
out. According to Coach Anderson, the 
play diagramed was to work the ball inside 
to Cwalina who had 27 points, mostly by 
driving to the board on the smaller Hiram 
defenders. "I wanted to get the ball inside," 
he said, "Pete was hurting them down 
inside." Instead, DeVries put up a three 
pointer that bounced in the rim and out. 
Cwalina then fouled Pajak for the third time 
in under a minute. Pajak's two free throws 
put the game out of reach. When it was all 
over, Hiram was on top 92-83 for their 
second win over Carnegie Mellon this year.
The Tartans travel Wednesday night into 
Cleveland to take on the Blue Streaks (7:50 
WRCT).
Ice Tartans vs. Duquesne Cancelled
By DON GAMBLE
Tartan Sports Editor 
The atmosphere at the Civic Arena this 
Sunday Afternoon was one of surprise for 
Carnegie Mellon's and Duquesne's Ice 
Hockey Teams, as well as for the multitude 
of fans, photographers and reporters from 
both schools who showed up to watch the 
battle, when all were informed that the 
match had never been scheduled, and that it 
would not take place. Everyone who showed
up was turned away, causing confusion and 
anger for the most part 
Officials at the Arena were quoted as saying 
that the game was never scheduled, since the 
Junior Penguins were scheduled to play at 
that time, and that noone could use the ice 
after 3 PM since the arena had to be prepared 
for the Penguin's game against the Hartford 
Whalers that night. This is the second 
cancellation this year for the Tartans, since 
the one with Gannon earlier.
Shed light onthe matterWe Make High-Tech Happen!
Department of Metallurgical 
Engineering and Material Science
CIT Freshman Open House
Wean Hall 5403 Wednesday, Feb. 11 th. 4:30 p.m.
Followed by informal dicussion and refreshments.

---------------------------------------------------

February 3,1987—The Tartan—Page 17
IM Basketball Standings (as of 1/29)
Majors
Celtics Won Lost
Son of Buster Highmen41
City Kids30
Beta-A20
Alabama Slammers12
B-Squad12Pika-A14
Supa Pupa Scupas14
Lakers
The M.B.A.31
ATO Wolfjpap30
SAE-A30
UNLV21
Kappa Sig13
The Team14
SUPA04
Intermediates•
AtlanticMidwest
Pioneers40Beta's Fighting Ducks30
The Squad40ATO Pigs21
Pilam-B31Team I21
Chesga22The Schmegs22
ATO Over13DU10
F-Troop13ME Giants12
Beastie Boys03Bio Flys01
WPHA03TOJ04
CentralPacific
Fixers50Injured Reserves31
CMDS40Sigma Nu-A31
Crabs21Mercury Poisoning20
ThetaXi21Unknowns20The Zeps22Egos22
Rainbow12Math Grads11
irno r1aljMeat MansionlJ
ATO Pain Mongers 04Phi Kap A03
Prototype04White Guys/Moe03
Minors
Division ADivision B
The Scuntas40Sold Short50
AE-Pi30Z Crew30
Xi Slamma JammaL 32Wawwas22
Impossible Dream21ATO-SFP23
KSA22ZQ's23
Scobell-3rd Fir13CSO12
Prairie Dogs14Pika-C12
DU-B04Lonesome Losers04
Division CDivision D
Bride of Buster H.30Stars And Stripes30
History Grads30Sigma Nu31
Bow Wow Wows21Fritz the Mag. Eel21
Kappa Sig21Oakland Chiefs21
Other Guys22Pi-Lam A12
Dunkin Demons13AFROTC03
Kool Kats13Proud Pete03
SAE-F04
Division EDivision F
DU-A31GSLA30
Boss Hogs32DTD31
Petri Netters32Neighborhood21
Boesky’s Raiders 21Gunslingers22
Court Gestures21STG22
Mi. Wiener House 13Yo-Men23
Phi Kap13KDR-B02
SAE-C13The Cavity03
Do You Like To Write? 
Do You Like Sports?
ngo nI1CIy VolusIso1 Mu My yooU _r l1MCo1u C_ 5_0o1 
8s5_DMyd us_1Cup u85g Iu noyyMup —_erp F1_uuW F_8yC1a 
IyU 9oy5Myd7 -r a_8 I1o MyCo1ouCoUp 5_yCI5C ”_y —ID,eo 
IC 3GPPP _1 3J^?? r_1 UoCIMeu7
nI1CIy ts_1Cu ngMu Yook777
Men’s Basketball
February 4 John Carroll University (A) 8PM 
February 11 Thiel College (H) 8PM
Women’s Basketball
February 4 John Carroll University (A) 6PM 
February? New York University (H) 4PM 
February 11 Thiel College (H) 6PM
Swimming
February 3 Slippery Rock University (H) 6PM* 
February 7 Grove City College (H) ¡PM 
February 11 Duquesne University (H) 6 PM*
(* indicates men and women's teams)
Hockey
February 8 Allegheny College (H) 1 PM 
(Hockey Home games are played at Lakeview Ice Rink)
Fencing
February 5 Indiana University of PA (A) 7PM 
February 8 Intercollegiate Tournament (H) 10 AM
PUT YOUR 
COLLEGE DEGREE TO WORK.
Air Force Officer Training School 
is an excellent start to a 
challenging career as an Air 
Force Officer. We offer great 
starting pay, medical care, 30 
days of vacation with pay each 
year and management 
opportunities. Contact an 
Air Force recruiter. Find out what 
Officer Training School can mean 
for you. Call
Capt Robert A. Fantaske 
(412) 687-7315 collect
AIÜ *
--------------rOscr*- ’
SetSl mnOv
O'
D
¿06 S.CRAIG ST. 627-HA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—February 3,1987
YoMdgCeMrCMydp ?W_yW? mIukoC,Iee W ngo -’ Kos_1C
Snorts in Season 
Chess
The first 4 boards have been played in the 
championship match between Ribli's Believe 
It or Not and Physics. Score tied, 17-17.
Due to circumstances beyond our control, 
the 5th (and only remaining) board has been 
postponed.
Bowling
Commissioner—Vince Carozza x5494 
Up date on play offs—FINALS THIS 
WEEK
Please get all bowling fees paid to Strand 
Lanes. (SAE & CSO)
HIGH AVE: Rob Schlackman, PHI 
KAP—163.4
HIGH GAME: Tom Koehler, DU—223 
HIGH SERIES: Chris Brown, PHI 
KAP—563 
All Star Team 
Rob Schlackman, PHI KAP 
Chris Brown, PHI KAP 
Tom Koehler, DU 
Dave Freedman, CMDs 
Bemie Rykaczewski, DU 
CAMPUS CHAMPION— Phi Kappa 
Theta 
Darts
Commissioner—Paul Pecora 621-9125 
Please get play offs completed 
Backgammon
Commissioner—Shu Lee x3680 
Please get league games completed and play 
off games started.
Basketball 
Commissioners 
Major—Dee Nyzio x4608 
Intermediate—Vince Carozza x5494 
Minor—Mike Grzywinski x4651 
Women Only—Dee Nyzio x4608 4 teams
Schedules for all leagues are out and can be 
picked up in the IM Office.
Please play all games as scheduled and note 
the winning scores.
Officials game fees have been increased. 
Please contact Mike Mastroianni to join the 
Officials Club or officiate IM Basketball 
games.
Floor Hockey
Commissioners
Major League—Rob Schlackman x5518 
Minor League—Mike Grzywinski x4651 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
the IM Office.
League games started Monday, January 26.
Sports Cowmg Up
Pinochle
Commissioner—Vince Carozza x5494 
Final entry date Thursday, February 5th at 
4:30pm.
GET YOUR TEAM IN NOW 
Handball
Commissioner— E. J. Birdy x2214 
Last call for handball!
GET YOUR TEAM IN NOW!
Final entry date 4:30 February 5th.
Water Basketball 
Commissioner—Hal Levine x4077 
Final entry date— FEBRUARY 5TH AT 
4:40 PM
Check IM Bulletin Board for practice time. 
League play will start FEBRUARY 9TH. 
GET YOUR TEAM IN NOW!
Wrestling
Commissioner—Joe Kuefler 661-9375 
Practice times Monday thru Friday 3:30PM 
to 4:45PM.
IM WRESTLING TOURNAMENT will be 
held Saturday, March 14th 9:00AM to
4:00PM.
Start working out NOW!
Table Tennis 
SINGLES & DOUBLES 
Commissioner—Stuart Fox x4259 
Final Entry due by February 5th at 4:30pm. 
ALL ENTRIES MUST PAY FORFEIT 
FEE!
Three-on-Three Basketball
There will be a three-on-three basketball 
tournament, open to all non-varsity 
basketball students and Faculty members of 
CMU. The tournament is being sponsored 
by Air Force ROTC and the CMU 
Intramural Department The tournament is to 
take place on the weekend of the 7th and 8th 
of March. Entry Forms can be obtained and 
submitted to the IM Office, the AFROTC 
lounge or Dave Nardozzi (5438). Entries will 
be taken until March 2nd. A copy of the 
rules will also be available where there are 
entry forms. Any questions should be 
directed to Dave Nardozzi (5438) or Assistant 
Intramural Director Mike Mastroianni at 
(2214).
Weight Lifting
Entry due Thursday February 26th. 
Commissioner—Guy Bennardo 
For additional information contact IM 
Office x2214.
Start to lift now!
Flag Football
Extramural Flag Football Tournament in 
Spring
CMU will enter our IM Champs Pi Kappa 
Alpha
Next IM Meeting
Thursday, February 5th 12:30pm in the 
Conference Room.
Lady Tartans 
Explode From 
Slump, Defeat First 
Ladies of W and J, 
71-52
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The Women's Hoops squad notched its first 
victory in several outings last Tuesday, 
topping PAC rivals Washington and 
Jefferson 71-52 on foreign turf.
The game was relatively one-sided as the 
hoopsters led the First Ladies in free throws, 
floor shots, and rebounds. The Tartans 
looked hot, hitting 63 percent of their free 
throws and tearing down a total of 47 boards.
Sophomore Lisa Lightner topped all 
scorers with 23 tallies, while classmates 
Aimee Reber dropped in 16 points for her 
squad. Freshman Donna Spicuzaa netted five 
baskets to hit the double figures, as well. 
The First Ladies had no sewers in the double 
figures, hurting their offensive attempts.
Reber tore down 14 rebounds to lead both 
teams, while, once again, the hosts had no 
rebounders in the double figures.
The Lady Tartans take this win at a late 
point in the season. With only six games 
remaining in regular play this year, the 
Tartans will have to do some fancy shooting 
to finish with a decent-looking record,before 
entering UAA competition next season.
The hoopsters will be looking to add 
another slash to the win column tomorrow 
afternoon, as they travel to John Carroll 
University to face their PAC rivals, the 
Terriers. Saturday, the women will play 
host to New York University, in their first 
University Athletic Association match-up of 
the season. The contest is slated to begin at 
4:00 pm in Skibo Gym.
Meeting: Wednesday, February 4
Skibo Room 45
If interested, contact
Roy 268-5342
John 268-5346
Fred 268-5432
-Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

BIG 12” SUBS
HOT OR COLD
ITALIAN • HAM & CHEESE 
ROAST BEEF & CHEESE 
______$4.00
r-COUPON
TheO rigO nallg
ONE COUPON PER 
CQUPQN EXPIRES
2-1°-87
683-0400
PITTSBURGH
COFF
ANY BIG 
12" SUB
AND A FREE 16 oz 
CUP OF COKE
WE RESERVE THE 
RIGHT TO LIMIT 
OUR DELIVERY
COUPON
AR^Jjj
r"cry D er*TheO rigO nallg
ONE COUPON PER 
COUPON EXPIRES
L. 2-10-87
COUPONCOUPON
683-0400
PITTSBURGH
COUPON
¦ir-1-0400 ¦ ¦TheO rigO nallg
ONLY
COUPON
SAVINGS
ONE COUPON PER PIZZA 
COUPON EXPIRES
2-10-87COUPON
COUPON
683-0400
PITTSBURGH
COFF
ANY BIG 
12" SUB
AND A FREE 16oz 
CUP OF COKE
WE RESERVE THE 
RIGHT TO LIMIT 
OUR DELIVERY
683-0400
PITTSBURGH
A BIG 12- 
THICK CRUST 
CHEESE
PIZZA
TheO rigO nallg
ONLY
COUPON
SAVINGS
$200
:7 GWPhWTc
A BIG 12- 
THICK CRUST 
CHEESE
PIZZA
WE RESERVE THE 
RIGHT TO LIMIT 
OUR DELIVERY
ONE COUPON PER °I22A 
COUPON PXPIRESWE RESERVE 
RIGHT TO LIMI 
OUR DEliVl
COUPON
ARE^Jjj
683-0400 o
4740 Baum Blvd. Pittsburgh
12”& 16” PIZZA
• WF RESERVE THE RIGHT TO LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA • SORRY WE DO NOT ACCEPT PERSONAL CHECKS
FREE DELIVERY WITHIN 30 MIN*
• 10 MINUTE PICKUP 
STORE HOURS
SUN-THURS4PM—1 AM 
FRI & SAT 4 PM—2 AM
14 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM
Cheese .
1 Item ..
2 Items .
3 Items .
4 Items .
5 Items .
$5.25. . $ 7.50
6.00. . 8.50
6.75• 9.50
7.50• • 10.50
8.25• - 11.50
9.00• • 12.50
PEPPERONI
SAUSAGE
HAM
GROUND CHUCK 
BACON
PINEAPPLE 
THICK CRUST 
ONIONS
GREEN PEPPERS 
HOT PEPPERS
ANCHOVIES 
MUSHROOMS 
GREEN OLIVES 
EXTRA CHEESE
I

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Añer Hoop sters Win Over W andJ
Hiram Denies Tartans Four-Win
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Tartans' three game winning streak ran 
into a roadblock Saturday; his name was 
Rob Swartz. After Carnegie Mellon had 
beaten Washington and Jefferson (3-13,1-5) 
75-67, the Tartans returned home to find 
Swartz waiting for them. Swartz, the PAC’s 
leading scorer, set a PAC record for scoring 
by tallying 51 points to lead the Hiram 
Terriers (4-13,3-4) past Carnegie Mellon 92- 
83, dropping the Tartans to 8-10, 4-3 in the 
PAC.
The Tartans travelled down to Washington 
on the heels of back to back blowouts of 
Bethany and Grove City and looked to do the 
same to the last place Presidents. However, 
no one informed W&J's freshman forward 
Danny Jones. Jones had 13 first half points 
to keep the game 36-31 Carnegie Mellon at 
the end of the first half, despite Carnegie 
Mellon's control of the boards (18 rebounds 
vs. W&J's 10).
The second half belonged to junior co­
captain Hart Coleman who dominated the 
game inside. Coleman led all scorers with 
27 points and added 11 rebounds and 3 
blocked shots with senior guard and co­
captain David Bart added 15 for the Tartans. 
With Coleman and the Tartans controlling 
the inside game, the Presisents moved 
outside, attempting 17 three point shots in 
the game. Jones made three of his six in 
scoring W&J's high of 22 points. However, 
the Presidents became a one shot offense and 
the Tartans were able to coast to a 75-67 
victory.
Saturday, the Terriers and Rod Swartz came 
to town. With only center Kevin Coleman 
taller than 6'4", Hiram turned to an outside 
game, not even taking a shot within the foul 
lane in the first seven minutes. Senior 
forward Pete Cwalina and Coleman traded 
baskets to start off the game, then Swartz le t 
loose with a twenty-five footer that bounced 
off the rim. Swartz would only miss six 
more of his twenty-five shots from the floor.
Hiram was able to take advantage of early 
Tartán turnovers and missed free throws to 
take an early lead that the Tartans 
continually attempted to break. After Swartz 
hit a jump shot and free throw to give him 
16 points and Hiram a 28-22 lead, the 
Tartans started a run. Two Hart Coleman 
jump shots and an eighteen footer by junior 
guard Tom Franklin iced the game, and a 
Hart Coleman free throw put the Tartans on 
top 29-28 with six minutes remaining in the 
half. The Terriers then turned the game over 
to Swartz. Over the final six minutes of 
the half, he outscored Carnegie Mellon 12- 
10 as Hiram pulled to a 42-39 halftime lead.
Swartz continued to play hot in the second 
half as Tartan Head Coach Larry Anderson 
tried to find a defense that would stop him. 
'We could've probably shot him from the 
sidelines. We went to a zone, we went to a 
full court man to man, a full court zone, we 
had Darryl (Long) on him, Dave (Bart) on 
him, Roger (DeVries) on him. He made his 
shots, he was just on this evening. We just 
did everything we could to play him, but he 
came here to play."
The two teams played close until a nine 
point run capped by Bob Dunn's eighteen 
footer forced Anderson to call time out with 
12:40 left and Hiram ahead 60-51. The 
Tartans settled down and improved their shot 
selection as Hiram minus Swartz grew cold. 
Paced by two three pointers by DeVries, the 
Tartans pulled to within two with 6:33 
remaining. The Tartans would do no better, 
trouble with fouls and foul shooting putting 
the game out of reach.
The end started with 2:22 left and Carnegie
Streak
Dan Dowhan
Senior Co-Captain Dave Bart Goes Up for Two. The Tartans' three in a row streak 
started after his return from the Injured List
Men Still Undefeated. Women 2-1
Split Match for Swimmers Against John Carroll
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Traveling to John Carroll University, last 
Saturday, the Men's Swim Team notched its 
fifth victory of the season to remain 
undefeated, while the Women's Team 
dropped a heartbreaker, to fall to 2-1 on the 
season.
The men topped all competitors in 10 of 
13 events, while placing in the top three of 
all races. Senior star Mike Fitzgerald led the 
squad with three blue ribbons, while 
freshman Pat Hensler and sophomore Greg 
Schooley earned double honors on the day, 
with Chris Young and Doug Biesecker 
bringing home individual titles as well. 
Fitzgerald posted the winning times in the 
200 yard Individual Medley, 200 yard 
breaststroke, and the 500 free.
Hensler held tough in the 1000 yard free, 
while breaking the tape as an exhibition 
swimmer in the 500 free. Schooley garnered 
the top honors in both the 50 free and 200 
yard butterfly.
Young and Biesecker made thier marks in 
the 100 free and 200 back, respectively.
Both the Men’s Relay squads copped blue 
ribbons, as Biesecker, Doug Lindbladh, Hal 
Levine, and Young opened the day with a 
win in the 400 free relay, while Young later 
teamed up with Schooley, Hensler, and 
senior Rob Summers to close the meet with 
a victory in the IM Relay.
On the Women's side, John Carroll proved 
a tough match for the formerly undefeated 
natators. Junior Card Pampino led her 
squad with victories in both the 200 breast 
and IM, while classmate Amy Stemple 
garnered the only other first place finish, 
stopping the clock at 27.63 in the 50 free.
Sophomores Suzie Kelley and Francesca
Crannell contributed two second places 
apiece to their teams squad, earning red 
ribbons in the 1000 and 500 free and 200 and 
100 free, respectively.
Freshman Elizabeth Fruehan broke the 
existing school record as she stopped the 
clock at 2:31.8 to finish second in the 200 
yard butterfly race.
The final event of the day, the Medley 
Relay proved the big race, as the team of 
Annalisa Ekbladh, Pampino, Stemple, and
Tiffany Pickering set a new school record 
breaking the tape at 4:37.2.
The Men and Women will host swimmers 
from Slippery Rock this evening at 6:00 pm 
in Thistle Hall, while Saturday will bring 
the natators from Grove City into town for 
the men. Be sure to follow the Swim Team 
every week in the Tartan Scoreboard, and 
watch for upcoming meets in "Tartan Sports 
Calendar".
Scoreboard
HotDS p4S5o234CC
Carnegie Mellon 75 
Washington and Jefferson 67
Hiram 92
Carnegie Mellon 83
AvuotDS p4S5o234CC
Carnegie Mellon 71 
Washington and Jefferson52
kvd5o-
Carnegie Mellon vs.Duquesne 
Game Cancelled
IM Basketball 
Standings
Latest on CM's 
New Conference 
The UAA
Inside...
Women's
Hoops
IM Report
