«^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54 — NUMBER 28 WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 1962
Honoraries Announce 
Spring Membership
The following honoraries have 
announced their spring call to 
membership. They are: Phi Tau 
Gamma, the junior women’s hon­
orary: Linda Booth, Mary Breiten- 
stein, Joan Bressman, Susan 
Broadhead, Phyllis Cohen, Mindy 
Davis, Francis Freeman, Marney 
Gil boy, Cathy Gray, Judy Grim- 
inger, Mary Ann Gruen, Kathy 
Hopkins, Elizabeth Kim, Bonnie 
Kliot, Judy Mason, Leslie McKin­
ley, Audrey Owen, Lynn Paster­
nak, Peggy Riva, Rhoda Ross, 
Janet Scharp , Arleen Shaheen, 
Jackie Vacco, Andrea Vidakovic, 
and Marlene Whitman.
Scimitars, sophomore men’s hon­
orary, called: Gary Lindstrom,
president; Dave Heil, vice-presi­
dent; Roger Powell, secretary; 
John Blue, treasurer; Keith Pierce; 
Henry Werronen; Dave Francis; 
Tony Williams; Tom Snow; John 
Kurtz; Dick Sehoup; Jerry Cross; 
Eric Erenrich; Erroll Davis; Dave 
Howarth; Jim Kamm; and Norm 
Ziesse.
Delta Skull, junior men’s hon­
orary, called: Jon Borofsky, David 
Easley, Richard Ferguson, Henry 
Galliot, Joe Hartman, Bob Haw­
kins, Terry Heckler, Tom Miller,
Tom Pyke, Joe Thomas, John 
Jackson, and Ed Peay.
Claymore Clan, men’s dormitory 
honorary, called: C. Michael Allen, 
Robert English, Dennis Gary, 
Richard Grove, Norman Jacklin, 
Duane Smith, Robert Smoyer, and 
Arthur Tarr.
Alpha Phi Omega, the national 
service fraternity, called: John 
Rothkopf, Hayden Lipp, Thomas 
Kenat, Richard Grove, Andrew 
Lippay, Robert English, and Ken­
neth Begalke.
On Call Day, Activities Keys 
were presented to the Tech stu­
dents participating in the most 
activities. Alec P. Bouxsein re­
ceived the special jewelled key; 
William Ellis, Thomas Vandersalm, 
Allan Kullen, Jane Scott, Mark 
Appelbaum, Robert Quain, Paul 
Farrell, and Beverly Patton were 
presented jewelled keys; and Wil­
liam McKnight, Joseph Oldfield, 
Thomas Ference, Becky Krauss, 
George Jernstedt, Alice Dieckhaus, 
Sally G. Farrell, Rita Paris, Har­
vey Berlin, Jane Barbrow, Joseph 
Brown, Wilma “Doc” Fetcho, Wil­
liam Stratton, Pat Martin, Robert 
[continued on page 6]
c*Remember Eventful Tech Days, 
Subscribe To 1962 Thistle
Sii
i*
(t
Clint Anglin and Ruth Seligman prepare lobby display for 
Administration Hall.
Scott, Henderson Elected 
Dorm Council Presidents
Women’s Dormitory Council 
for the coming year were elected 
at a mass meeting of resident stu­
dents held in the Morewood Rec || 
Room on May 2. The new presi­
dent is Jane Scott, past president | 
of Cwens, member of Student | 
Congress, and representative to | 
the Pittsburgh Intercollegiate 
Council. She has also served as a 
member of Phi Tau Gamma, Pi 
Delta Epsilon, Mortar Board, and 
Phi Kappa Phi. Jane will also 
serve as Associate Chairman for 
Freshman Camp of 1962. As pres­
ident of Dormitory Council, she 
will represent women resident 
students on Executive Council.
Marney Gilboy was elected as 
vice president. Marney is a mem­
ber of Kappa Alpha Theta soror­
ity, and will serve next year as 
a Freshman Camp counselor. She 
has also recently been tapped for 
Phi Tau Gamma.
Thé new Secretary-Treasurer is 
Hedda Bluestone, a freshman re­
presentative to Dorm Council. 
Hedda is also a member of Hillel 
and of Scotch ’n Soda Prop Crew. 
Next year she will serve as a 
member of Cwens and a counselor 
at Freshmen Camp.
Other representatives to Dorm 
Council next year will be the 
Morewood presidents and vice- 
presidents: Elizabeth Kim and Ly- 
nell Torno from A-Tower; Jean 
Magura and Andy Nether from B- 
Tower; Carol Houtz and Julie 
München from C-Tower; Libby 
Cure and Margaret Cory from D- 
Tower; and Nancy Harvey, Leslie 
Foster and Lee Weller from the 
new annex. The Fine Arts Repre­
sentatives will be Paula Smith, 
with Inga Newbeck and Linda 
Coffen as alternates.
Jane Scott
Henry Henderson
Give A Helping Hand, 
Aid Foreign Students
In the recent Men’s Dormitory 
Council election Henry Henderson 
was re-elected as president. At 
the same time Charles Erickson 
was electer treasurer. The remain­
ing officers will be chosen by next 
year’s council when it convenes 
in the fall. The new council will 
consist of the Dormitory presi­
dents which will be elected at the 
beginning of next year.
Henry will be a sub-senior archi­
tect when he takes office next 
fall. He has served on Men’s 
Dorm Council for two years and is 
presently serving as president. He 
is a member of Delta Skull and 
was recently called to member­
ship in Omicron Delta Kappa. His 
other extracurricular activities in­
clude Student Undergraduate Ad­
visory Committee, Editorial Board 
of Tartan, President of Executive 
Council, and Sigma Nu Fraternity.
Charles will be a senior Chem­
istry major next year. He has 
served Dormitory Council in the 
past as Recording Secretary. Other 
activities include Student Con­
gress and American Chemical So­
ciety.
In hopes that next year’s Men’s 
Dorm Council will not become an 
indifferent organization, Henry 
wants the council to take on more 
dynamic projects. By promoting 
and participating in more activi­
ties, Dorm Council will have a 
greater hold on the interest of its 
members. There should also be 
more ^concentration on new ways 
of assisting residents in the areas 
of scholarship, athletics, and rec­
reation. Henry feels Men’s Dorm 
Council has the opportunity to ac­
cept added responsibilities if the 
new council is willing to take on 
these new activities.
A year - an eventful, memor­
able, exhilarating, agonizing year - 
is rapidly deteriorating to finals 
week. That is the end. But . . . 
you can have it all back again, 
and forever.
We’re not bragging, but the 
THISTLE for 1962 really does 
look good. You’ve seen the pho­
tography display in AH, and 
chances are you’ve never seen a
* * *
better job for a yearbook. This 
week when you are passing by 
that display, you will see that 
we’ve set up a sales table for your 
convenience. In addition, there 
are many, many Thistle represen­
tatives around campus. The cost 
is six dollars ... a lot on money? 
Got news for you, it’s about ten 
[continued on page 7]
Would you like to meet new 
friends? Every year, approximate­
ly thirty-five international stu­
dents find their way to Tech. They 
have come from distant lands to 
study the American way of doing 
things. Admittedly, their introduc­
tion to Western society is some­
what sudden, confusing and often­
times frustrating.
It is this condition that has 
spurred the recent formation of a 
committee to seek out the areas of 
difficulty encountered by the 
overseas student and to offer as­
sistance whenever possible. Some 
problems of foreign students may 
be, how to use the public trans­
portation system, what kind of 
clothing is best for our miserable 
Pittsburgh weather, what are the 
rules for tipping, and so on. On 
top of this, the foreign student is 
at first very self-conscious and 
lonely, all of which is totally un­
desirable.
The committee believes that its 
efforts will complement the office 
of Dr. Earl Swank, the Foreign 
Student Advsior. This committee 
was initiated by the Campus YM- 
YWCA and will include non­
members, foreign or American.
Won’t you lend a helping hand?
Applicants are now being sought 
to volunteer their good-will next 
semester or during the summer, 
to welcome the students to our 
campus and smooth over the 
bumps in their adjustments to our 
Western way of living. Applica- 
tionblanks may be found in vari­
ous locations on campus. If you 
are unable to find any, drop a 
note to Room 57, Skibo, Campus 
Mail.
Fraternity Men 
Tonight, May 23 
7:00 P.M.
Main Ballroom
Skibo
ADMINISTRATION WILL 
PRESENT ITS POLICY ON 
FRATERNITIES AND RUSH
1000 Students 
Accept Degrees
Approximately 1000 students 
will receive degrees at Tech’s 65th 
Annual Commencement Exercises, 
Monday, June 11, beginning at 
10:00 a.m.
A total of 680 bachelor, 253 mas­
ter, and 86 doctor of philosophy 
degrees will be awarded to stu­
dents representing thirty - eight 
states, the District of Columbia, 
and twenty-five foreign countries. 
The 1962 graduating class is one 
of the largest in recent years.
E&S will award 334 bachelor, 
126 master, and 78 Ph.D. degrees; 
Fine Arts, 134 bachelor and 24 
master degrees; and MMCC, 115 
bachelor degrees. Forty - seven 
bachelor degrees will be awarded 
in industrial management, and 50 
in printing management.
In addition, GSIA has 56 master 
and 6 Ph.D. candidates, while 
forty-seven students will receive 
master degrees in library science.
The Commencement address at 
Carnegie Tech’s Commencement 
Exercises will be delivered by 
Walt Whitman Rostow, counselor 
and chairman of the policy plan« 
ning council of the United States 
Department of State.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 23, 1962
Pyke Elected SC Vice- Chairman, 
Bouxsein Delivers Final Address
Tom Pyke was elected Vice- 
Chairman of Student Congress at 
its May 16 meeting. Following 
the election, he and Mark Appel- 
baum, newly elected Chairman, 
were inaugurated. Committee 
heads were chosen prior to this 
meeting, and are as follows: Sec­
retary of Student Congress, Anne 
Moser; Secretary to Committee 
Heads, Gerry Eckstein; Activities, 
Ellie Wiseman; Assembly, Colin, 
Jones; Campus Chest, Robert 
Stocking; Constitution, Linda Tre­
go; Elections, Robert Hawkins; 
Finance, John Jackson; General 
Campus, Jane Scott; Public Re­
lations, Richard Elkman and Mar­
gie Park; Freshman Orientation, 
Tom Miller; Fall Festival, Henry 
Henderson and Bill Stratton; 
Union, Frank Morrison and Judy 
Suhay.
The “State of the Campus” ad­
dress was delivered by Pete Boux­
sein who, as previous Vice-Chair - 
man of Student Congress and past 
president of Executive Council, is 
well aware of the problems facing 
our campus and has the experi­
ence to evaluate them. The “State 
of the Campus” address is as fol­
lows:
“My purpose in coming here is 
to attempt an evaluation of Stu-
Continue Studies 
With Scholarships
There are more than 800 schol­
arships available for graduate 
study or research abroad. The 
Institute of International Educa­
tion administers the funds made 
available by the Fulbright-Hays 
Act.
Students may apply for three 
different types of grants. A full 
U.S. Government grant provides 
round-trip transportation^ main­
tenance, tuition and books for 
study in 34 countries. A Joint 
U.S.-Other Government Grant 
provides a travel award from the 
U.S. Government in conjunction 
with foreign government grants 
which provide tuition and full or 
partial maintenance. These joint 
awards are available for study in 
most of the Latin American coun­
tries and Poland and Rumania.
The third type of award, Travel- 
Only Grants, supplements a schol­
arship received from a foreign 1 
government, university or private j 
donor. These are available for 
study in Australia, Denmark, 
France, Germany, Israel, Italy and 
the Netherlands.
General eligibility requirements 
for all types of grants are: (1) 
U.S. citizenship at time of appli­
cation; (2) a Bachelor’s degree or 
its equivalent before the begin­
ning date of grant; (3) language 
proficiency to carry out the pro­
posed study and to communicate 
with the people of the host coun­
try; and (4) good health. A good 
academic record and a demon­
strated capacity for independent 
study are also necessary. Prefer­
ence is given to applicants under 
35 who have not previously lived 
or studied abroad.
This year two Tech students, 
Gerald Gurland and Richard 
Sanders, have received scholar­
ships. Gerald is going to study 
Architecture with an emphasis on 
housing at the Technological Uni­
versity, Delft-Netherlands; and 
Richard is going to study acting 
at the London Academy of Music 
and Dramatic Art—United King­
dom.
Any one interested in specific 
information about this program 
should see Mr. Parshall in AH260 
before the end of the semester.
dent Congress and the scope of ex­
isting activities in light of the 
state of the campus. If I should 
stray from this objective, I beg 
your pardon.
I should like, first, to review a 
few of the accomplishments of the 
past year which bring merit to 
Congress. This group has been an 
effective Congress owing to con­
sistency fine leadership from the 
chair and to some good efforts by 
committee chairmen working to­
gether. . . . The General Campus 
committee did creditable work in 
several areas, particularly parking 
and the school calendar. The Con­
stitution committee was busy as 
ever keeping up to date. All in 
all Congress periormed quite sat­
isfactorily.
In looking at the campus in 
general, two areas stand out in 
my mind wherein Student Con­
gress could do creditable service 
for the students. One is the Stu­
dent Union, the other the White 
Book.
There are many diverse inter­
ests among students at CIT, yet 
very little interchange of ideas 
and interests, such interchange 
being both desirable and bene- 
cial. There is nothing which gives 
our students any semblance of a 
student body. There is no common 
ideal, mutual objective, or perva­
sive tone. I believe that we can 
have a student body at Tech and 
still allow each student to retain 
his individuality. I do not make 
a plea for conformity. The Stu­
dent Union has the facilities and 
resources to give us a student 
body. By working closely with 
Student Congress, the Union can 
provide social and intellectual ac­
tivities which would appeal to any 
student, regardless of his indivi­
dual interests.
Closely connected with these 
thoughts is a concern over the 
moral tone on the campus. In­
dividuality and the competitive 
struggle for excellent achievement 
need not imply a selfish uncon­
cern for the interests of others. 
Part of our problem seems to stem 
from a lack of knowledge of the 
important rules of our institution, 
another part, from a lack of com­
prehension of one’s responsibility, 
not only for his own education, 
but also for his whole behavior
and for his contribution to his 
community. The White Book is the 
instrument for corecting both 
these errors. A simplified, con­
cise. but explicit rule book is 
greatly needed.
In looking over the past year 
I would make this observation, 
more important than any single 
achievement, Student Government 
has shown that it can be, and will 
continue to try to be, an effective 
group for the students. It has 
shown that it works for the bene­
fits and desires of the students. It 
has also shown that it expects the 
students to look after their own 
interests and not to depend on the 
faculty or administration to do 
this for them.
The powers and duties of Stu­
dent government have been limit­
ed only by the initiative and in­
dustriousness of its members and 
by its support from the students. 
Once this is realized we will not 
have students standing up to cri­
ticize the administration, like Mr. 
Woody Turner did so well at the 
University of Pittsburgh last year, 
only to pass off student problems 
onto the administration, and then 
cry for more liberty in their own 
actions.
Only by taking responsibility 
shall we gain liberties.
Only by taking initiative shall 
we retain self-government.”
Marino Awarded 
US Steel Grant
George P. Marino, a graduate 
student in the department of 
metallurgy at Tech, has been 
awarded a two-year fellowship by 
the United States Steel Founda­
tion. The fellowship will begin 
in September of this year.
The United States Steel Foun­
dation Fellowships are given to 
outstanding graduate students who 
are working for their doctoral de­
gree. The program is in recogni­
tion of the increased needs for 
superior leadership in all elements 
of national life, science and tech­
nology, social sciences, and hu­
manities.
At Tech, George holds meber- 
ships in Sigma Tau and Sigma 
Gamma Epsilon, and is also a 
member of thé American Society
COMMENCEMENT PARKING
Faculty and Staff who will at­
tend Commencement, June 11 
have been requested to park in 
their regular assigned areas, ex­
cept in the case of the Skibo lot. 
That lot will be reserved for can­
didates and guests. Those who 
regularly park there have been
urged to use the lot adjoining the 
Edwards property.
S’nS Board
The Board requests that all 
script entries for next year’s show 
be turned in by Friday, May 25. 
They should be sent via campus 
mail, box 256. If the script is not 
completed, scenarios will be ac­
ceptable.
Fourth Avenue at Wood Street, 413-415 Federal Street. North Side 
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
1101 Seventh Avenue, 22nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Falls, Pm. 
Tarentum • Koppet • Lower Burrell • Coraopolis, two offices 
BnOgevilte • Cedarhurst • Donaldson’s Crossroad» • Bethel Parti 
Cecil • McDonald • Oakdale 
You can bank with us by mail
Bm»**/ ftftfi «Him tfUam )MW ««,..« Iwwmm f.i»n»ltrn
¿Aqubicü», INST U IEOFSC HECLGYeC
BY 0. E. SCHOEFFLER, ESQUIRE’S Fashion Director
YES, MISTER—CLEAN WHITE BUCKS a»
far and away the most suitable shoes we’ve ever 
seen with seersucker suits.
SEERSUCKER PLAYS ALL SUMMER i.
sportswear, too... mostly shirts and shorts ... 
you'll see the characteristic stripings combining 
white with hot, bright colors, especially olive, 
blue, black, tiger, tan, red and yellow.
SLACKS—THE LOW RISE IN HIGH FAVOR
... (preferably not in suits, but only slacks) 
cut to ride the hipbones rather than the waist 
—excellent for the lithe, rangy figure.
BLAZING FLANHEL RLAZER in fire-engine
red is made of the well-proven blend of 50-50 
wool and cotton ... has pearl or metal buttons, 
natural shoulders, patch flap pockets and welt 
seams. Note it also in bright blue, bright yellow, 
bright green. Memo to Club committee: INSIG­
NIA looks its most impressive in such an impec­
cable setting.
THE SOFT TOUCH IN F00TWEAR-«.mpu, men can well be
accused of ‘going soft’ and quite happy about it—in the newest 
slip-on shoes of softest construction, usually unlined for lightness 
and coolness. Consider a pliant pair in a dark color, of smooth or^ 
slightly grained ‘llama’ calf.
The look of a Coach 
House raincoat is tra­
ditional. This Keith 
Darrow coat has hand­
some lines and excep­
tional fit. Its Scotch- 
gard repellent finish, 
silk-sheen richness ef­
fect a degree of rain, 
stain and spot-repell- 
ency never before 
achieved by any cloth 
rainwear. Cleaning 
protection lasts! Now 
... a greater value 
than ever ... at $19.95
tfrfye&oarljHottSf
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes VOLU Squirrel 
Phone JA 1-760«
Oh* T*aids? and Th«ni»| 
rmrPaPps hPDai tonn

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 23, Id«« — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Paff« J
P anhel Sponsor 
For Exchange 
Student Fhad
Panhellenic has agreed to spon­
sor a foreign exchange student for 
the academic year 1962-63 on the 
same terms as the sponsorship of 
the exchange student for the 
1961-62 school year by the Delta 
Gamma Foundation, the Com­
mittee on Financial Aid, and the 
Foreign Student Advisor.
The student who has been 
chosen is Cecile Fhad, a 22 year- 
old French girl, who will be a 
junior in the Home Economics 
Department. She is particularly 
interested in nutritional research, 
and hopes eventually to teach in 
the French secondary schools. She 
has a Fulbright Scholarship to 
cover her travel expenses, and 
Panhellenic will pay for her room 
and board. Her roommates, who 
were selected by the Foreign 
Student Committee, will be Tita 
Hershner and Carol Dauber. Carol 
has been studying abroad this 
year and speaks French, and Tita 
is in the Home Economics Depart­
ment. The three girls will live in 
the Mgrewood penthouse.
Panhellenic is also investigating 
the possibility of continuing a 
foreign exhange progrcam, work­
ing directly with specific foreign 
institutions (in place of a gov­
ernment agency). A possibility 
exists of setting up an exchange 
program with the French Min­
istry so that a CIT Panbellenic 
member could attend school in 
France in 1963-64. The various 
sororities expressed an interest in 
a similar exchange program with 
the following countries (in order 
of preference): England, Germany, 
France, and Switzerland.
Fales Costume 
Books Shown
The “Jane Fales Historic Cos­
tume Collection,” a collection of 
rare books on fashion, costumes, 
and decorations will be exhibited 
in the home economics depart­
ment on the second floor of MMCC 
until June 1. Then the volumes 
will be placed in the Hunt Li­
brary.
Jane Fales was head of the cos­
tume economics department, now 
the MMCC home economics de­
partment, from 1921 until her 
death in 1930. Her collection in 
this field was the first important 
one in the United States. At her 
death the collection was given 
to Tech.
Among the more colorful books 
in the exhibit is a bound volume 
of “Petit courrier des Dames,” 
1826-1827, which includes colored 
illustrations of Modes de Paris; 
“Belle Assemblee,” a magazine of 
literature and fashion, under the 
immediate patronage of Her Royal 
Highness The Duchess of Kent; 
“Dress and Decorations of the 
Middle Ages,” 1943; “The World 
of Fashion,” a journal of fashion, 
literature, music, the opera, and 
the theaters; and a delightful vol­
ume, “Wimples and Crisping Pins,” 
on the coiffure and ornaments of 
women, 1895.
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
i*u’ll rate with 
•y*ur date...
(For a meal or just_____ a snack-put Hotel
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
hotel Weta; Haft
4415 Fifth Av«nu# Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
T»l*phoo*: MAyflowr 1-7700
“Another sign of spring! The girl’s gym classes have conte outdoors!’
Experimental Policy Released 
Sorority Rush Plan Revised,
Sorority rush in 1962-63 will 
take place in the fall immediate­
ly following mid-semester grades. 
This will be on an experimental, 
one-year trial basis, after which 
the new system will be evaluated. 
Complete plans for next year are 
still tentative, but the following 
points have been voted on and 
passed:
1. An intensive Panhellenic Open 
House program has been planned 
beginning with a Panhellenic Edu­
cational Program during Fresh­
man Orientation Week. There 
would then be two or three Pan- 
hellenic-sponsored open houses be­
tween the Educational Program
and the beginning of formal rush, 
arrangements for each in charge 
of two or three sororities, with 
all sororities having representa­
tion.
2. Formal Rush will begin with 
the usual open-house tours on a 
Sunday, and will last only one 
week:
Monday—six 30-minute par­
ties
Tuesday—four 45-minute par­
ties
Wednesday—open
Thursday—three 1-hour 
theme parties
[continued on page 9]
University Typing Service
Term Papers Theses
Electrically Typed
Dissertations Scripts
EM. 2-3261
Diamond-Studded Starlet
QÜ©@®K] ©n Becoming a specialist
Experienced girl watchers, for whom routine watching 
has lost some of its excitement, often become specialists. 
(This is definitely not recommended for beginners. How­
ever, it may be practiced as a change-of-pace by more 
advanced students.) They may spend an entire field trip 
concentrating on one part of a girl. This tends to step up
WHY BE AN AMATEUR?
JOIN THE AMERICAN SOCIETY.
OF GIRL WATCHERS NOW!
FREE MEMBERSHIP CARO. Visit the editorial office of 
this publication for a free membership card in the world’s 
only society devoted to discreet, but relentless, girl watch­
ing. Constitution of the society on reverse side of card.
This ad based on the book, “The Girl Watcher’s Guide.” Text: Copyright by Donald J. Sauers. Drawings: Copyright by Eldon Dedint. Reprinted by permission of Harper & Brothers.
*Ut middlt IMM«
activity, since it does not require that the whole girt be 
beautiful. For example, if you decide to specialize la 
knees, you watch only beautiful knees. (The doorman 
above appears to be an ankle specialist.) Whatever your 
watching specialty, make sure your smoking specialty is 
Pall Mall s natural mildness—it’s so good to your taste.
Pall Mall’s 
natural mildness is so good 
to your taste!
So smooth, so satisfying, 
so downright smokeablel
FAMOUS CIGARETTES
<f| n
WHEREVER PARTICULAR 
PEOPLE CONGREGATE*’

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 23, 1962
Editorial
Activities Justify Existence
If I Were President . . .
To The Trustees
Carnegie Tech activities and organizations 
have been under the microscope of criticism 
for several years. Failure to attract mem­
bers, failure to accomplish anything con­
structive, or just plain detraction from stud­
ies have been common complaints. The word 
“apathy” was foremost in the minds of Tech 
students for a period of time; its origin and 
its elimination was discussed by every mem­
ber of the campus community. Now, this 
word is rarely heard and then it is usually 
applied incorrectly.
Campus organizations have presently been 
experiencing a significant change in values 
and attitudes. Organizations can no longer 
exist for the sake of existence alone. It has 
been necessary that they re-evaluate them­
selves and their goals and justify their ex­
istence. This is a tedious but a required and 
valuable endeavor and has already benefitted 
those organizations which have done so.
Much of what has been accomplished is 
the result of action initiated by graduating 
members of the Senior class. The campus is 
indebted to these students for this and owes 
them a vote of thanks. At the same time 
these students leave behind a great deal to 
be done and have charged the entire campus 
community with completing their work. It 
is hoped that the next school year will see
Reader’s Write
the realization of a strong extra-curricular 
activities program.
News Responsibility
As the Carnegie Tech student newspaper, 
the Tartan will publicize anything of worth, 
no matter what the organization. This has 
always been and continues to be the Tartan 
policy. When something is not printed it is 
most often a case of no one having notified 
the staff. When notified the Tartan can send 
its own reporter, or the organization in­
volved may itself write what it wishes to 
have printed. With the purpose in mind of 
being as complete as possible, the Tartan 
periodically reminds the student body of its 
responsibility in this respect. We cannot be 
aware of all the news. Your cooperation is 
needed and appreciated.
I have been notified that WRCT has made 
some disparaging comments on the air con­
cerning Tartan publicity. I hope the above 
has answered their questions. I am sorry 
that their signal is not strong enough to reach 
my radio, one and one-half blocks away, so 
that I might have heard this enlightening 
“editorial” instead of only static with a few 
words interspersed. Realizing the Tartan to 
be the most effective means of attaining cam­
pus recognition, this organization is definitely 
correct in demanding its “fair share.” The 
most adeptly organized publicity campaign 
fails when one uses an ineffective mp^1? of 
public presentation. M.N.A.
Evaluations, “Viv” Commended
Lost Money 
Needs Home
Editor, the Tartan:
On Monday, May 14, while pick­
ing up some scattered derbis be­
tween the Fine Arts building and 
Administration Hall, I same upon 
a piece of U. S. currency, which 
for all I know may have been cast 
away with used paper cups. Cur­
rency is difficult to identify, but 
if any person can give me a 
plausible reason for believing it 
to be his in this case, I shall 
gladly return it. Imaginative 
claimants will be referred to Pat­
terns. If the money is not claimed 
before the end of the term, I shall 
dedicate it to some worthy cam­
pus cause.
Norman L. Rice, Dean
College of Fine Arts
Instructors Should 
Self-Evaluate
Editor, the Tartan:
As the semester draws to a 
close, everyone will begin to 
evaluate his work - “what have 
I accomplished this semester?” 
All students I believe will get a 
practical answer to this question 
when they take the Final Exams.
But, do instructors evaluate 
themsleves? Yes, some do. Tau 
Beta Pi is willing to supply in­
structors with a form called In­
structor Evaluation Project. Isn't 
it amazing that such an aid to in­
structors is available and yet uti­
lized by so few?
True, there are many devoted 
instructors who may justifiably be 
proud of their past and continuing 
achievements. One cannot help 
but recognize such brilliant men - 
men who have kept Carnegie 
Tech on top in academic excel­
lence.
But there are other instructors 
too. My desire is to call forth a 
certain amount of self-conscious- 
ness in these instructors. I be­
lieve that by the use of these 
Evaluation Forms an instructor 
can learn about himself in a most 
revealing way. If the results are 
unfavorable, then he’ll know that 
there is some room for improve­
ment.
I know that if I were an instruc­
tor, I’d be very concerned to see 
my classes gradually getting smal­
ler and smaller as the semester 
progressed. There is no doubt that 
this condition may be the fault 
of both student and instructor. 
But until I am sure that it is the 
fault of the student, I'd be most 
unhappy. The worry comes when 
good students also begin to cut 
classes regularly too. Then, one 
can surmise that good students 
have decided that their time may 
be more profitably spent and that 
there is nothing to be gained by 
attending classes.
Again, many instructors assume 
that because a class has no ques­
tions on any assigned material, it 
is time to go on. As a student, it 
is difficult to visualize the in­
finite variety of problems that are 
possible. One’s experience limits 
his understanding. Now, I am not 
asking for spoon feeding. I be­
lieve he is a good instructor who 
asks his class challenging ques­
tions, to point up the significance 
and limitations of the material 
under study.
To be explicit, I hope instruc­
tors will use the Evaluation Forms 
and keep Carnegie on top.
Sincerely,
Charles Ho Took '64
Com m unism vs. 
Freedom of Speech
Editor, the Tartan:
This letter is a response to the 
article by J. Edgar Hoover pub­
lished in the Tartan of May 9.
Mr. Hoover is correct in one 
statement: the United States is in 
great danger today. The continu­
ing nuclear arms race threatens 
to culminate in an all-out nuclear 
war which would annihilate 
American civilization. This is by 
far the greatest danger every 
American faces.
Our free society is also im­
periled by those who, in the 
name of preserving democracy, 
put forward proposals to restrict 
free speech or intimidate inde­
pendent thinkers. The Internal 
Security Act of 1950, so enthusias­
tically supported by Mr. Hoover 
as an anti-Communist measure, is 
an example of a law that, assord-
ing to many leading Americans, 
seriously decreases the freedom of 
speech and association of the 
American people.
The Communist Party of the 
United States is extremely weak 
and has completely failed to de­
ceive any significant number of 
Americans into following its lead­
ership. Its chief danger lies in the 
fact that it is used as an excuse 
by the right-wing extremists to 
whip up sentiment against our 
free institutions. A single power­
ful enemy of human freedom like 
Senator Eastland does more dam­
age to American democracy in 
one year than all the American 
Communists have managed to do 
in forty years. Those who exag­
gerate the weak enemy and ig­
nore the powerful enemy are 
either incredibly stupid or utterly 
irresponsible.
It is essential, however, that we 
understand the Russian Commu­
nists, since it is the hostility be­
tween our two societies that 
threatens to erupt in nuclear an­
nihilation. The fact that the Rus­
sian leadership is atheistic is ir­
relevant: the barbarians of the 
Algerian OAS are undoubtedly 
professed Christians, while some 
of the finest humanitarians in the 
world are atheists. Even Marxist 
ideology is not really important 
in influencing the Russian leaders.
What is important is the his­
torical Russian nationalism, the 
historical Russian isolation, and 
the historical Russian fears. We 
must also realize that the Russian 
leadership is not monolithic, that 
there exists a real struggle with­
in the Kremlin between the mili­
tarists and Stalinists on the one 
side and those who believe in co­
existence on the other.
Our diplomacy and strategic 
policy must be directed toward 
preventing an extremely militar­
istic Russian policy. This cannot 
be done by giving in to every 
Russian demand nor by rejecting 
every Russian proposal. Our di­
plomacy should be flexible and 
based on an understanding of le­
gitimate Russian fears, such as 
that of a rearmed Germany. Our 
military policy should be directed 
towards the ultimate goal of 
achieving disarmament enforced 
by world law.
[continued on page 5]
By PAUL B. FARRELL, JR.
Gentlemen:
Yesterday Carnegie University received a large grant 
which not only meant the end of our present university 
development program, but placed us well over our one hun­
dred million dollar goal.
This is quite a moment for us — the end of a decade of 
hard work. However, this is not my purpose in writing, 
rather, the completion of current development program is 
the occasion to ask you a question which has been on my 
mind for the last two years.
Where do we go from here?
The world around us has reached no completion — the 
cycle of outlining ideals and goals and then striving toward 
these visions must continue on the part of our university 
as well as ourselves and the world.
We can never sit back and relax.
Our goal this past decade was not merely a hundred 
million dollars — in fact, this figure was incidental even 
though it was necessary.
Our goal was to become a university — and this is a 
never ending ideal.
We must continue to look ahead and think big. As 
individuals each of our students, faculty members and ad­
ministrators must continue to develop further — beyond 
their present selves. And by the same token, our university 
must continue to develop beyond its present self. This is 
the educational process.
On a larger scale, our university must be responsible 
to its environment. Therefore, we must be the intellect 
and drive that continually leads society beyond its present 
self.
The financial end of our recent development program 
actually took a year longer than we expected and various 
specific goals concerning undergraduate and graduate edu­
cation, research and creative work have in many cases 
changed with time and experience. We have doubled our 
graduate enrollment, increased admission and performance 
standards, created the Mellon College of the Humanities 
and Social Sciences, and increased faculty benefits such as 
our local residents program and higher salaries among other 
things.
The two important points to emphasize here are that, 
first, we must approach the next and any future decades 
with big ideas outlined in bold statements. Then, the second 
point, we must strive continually to attain these ideals.
The question, where do we go from here?, can never 
be answered completely. A university by its very nature is, 
The Questioner.
The truth is that we can never stop! More vital than 
where we as a university may go, is the sense of attainment 
which comes from having the vision and striving toward it 
as individuals.
This is a very natural process — for we all find our 
ideals in our past efforts. The great efforts produce the 
great ideals. And so it must be with Carnegie University.
I have enjoyed these years of working with you. They 
have been an invaluable source of my continuing education. 
The future promises even more. I’m proud to be a part of 
Carnegie University. (May 23, 1976)
iiBallilszIIaElBfllilllasisasIlasIIiilBBiaiBBBili
»‘-CARNEGIE
cEWcEe
CAKNEQIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone MU 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU 1-2696; Business Manager, 
MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager MU 2-9950; Managing Editor MU 
1-2926; Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Ine.
Editor-in-Chief ............................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor........................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager...........................................Miron Straf
News Editor ......................................................Joyce Holy
Assistant News Editor................................Margie Park
Features Editor.......................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor....................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager.............................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor .....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor...............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor ..............................Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Editor ..............................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Appelbaum, Elaine Grumer, Colin Jones, Margie Park, 
Mary Ferguson, Henry Henderson. B. J. Zimnewicz 
Sports Staff: Frank Brady. Tom Terpack. Jay Lawrence
Secretarial Staff: Jean Cline. Mary Breitenstein, Anne Moser. B.J. Zimnewicz 
New» Staff: Mark Appelbaum. Doris Bell. Frank Brady, Ellie Denberg. Mary 
Ferguson. Colin Jones. Sandy Klein, Fay Landau, Joyce Lapidus, Marty Moore, 
Gladys Stalin.ski. Cyndy Wolfson.
Copy Staff: Nancy Cameron, Jane Samuels, Janet Scharp, Janice Papa, Mike 
McCoy, Fay Landau. Irene Grandberg. Nancie Sutherland
Layout Staff: Jay Lawrence, Tom Douglass. Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Barry 
Shane
Feature* Staff: Andrea Nether. Irene Grandberg. Jan Engeman, Marion Mulli­
gan. Lynn Pasternak, Sandy Lancaster, Marlene Witman, Kathy O Dm, Marty 
Sauer. Allan Topol
Circulation Staff: Tom Johnson, George Kail

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. Mar 21. 196S — THE CAINEGB TARTAN — M« *
#>
Looking Forward
The Danger 
From Within
By Allan J. Topol
By ALLAN J. TOPOL
Throughout the twentieth century the United States 
has emerged as the great defender of “western democracy.” 
Much has been said about the external threat posed by 
Communism to democracy’s survival. Were we ever to be 
conquered by the Communistic world, I am dubious whether 
democracy would ever return to this earth. It is this threat 
of military submission to the Communists which I refer to 
as the danger from without.
Yet there are also dangers from within this country 
that threaten to destroy democracy. These are first that 
we will fail to balance individual liberty and national 
security; and second that our foreign policy will switch 
from one of responsibility to one of reaction.
Let us begin with the balance between individual lib­
erty and national security. American history has shown 
repeatedly that in time of war or national emergency the 
liberties guaranteed by the first Ten Amendments have 
often been suspended. In the Civil War the writ of habeus 
corpus was suspended and martial law declared. In the 
first world war it became a criminal offense to criticize the 
U. S. government. In the Second World War thousands of 
Americans, judged guilty till proven innocent on the basis 
of their ancestry, were sent to detention camps.
The dilemma that we now face is that the entire per­
iod since the last war may be deemed a national emergency. 
We have been involved in constant cold war with the 
Soviet Union. The future seems to hold no other alterna­
tive than perpetual national emergency. I fully recognize 
that national emergency requires some interference with 
individual liberty necessary for our survival. Thus, for ex­
ample, free speech no longer entitles one to expound the 
Communist dogma. Yet, these individual liberties are the 
essence of American democracy. Each time we infringe 
upon these liberties we are whittling away at the core of 
democracy. If in our haste to defend democracy we destroy 
its basic characteristics, than we have destroyed that which 
we wished to defend. The only solution to this dilemma is 
that we strike a balance between individual liberty and 
national security.
The second internal danger threatening democracy is 
reaction in foreign affairs. There are many Americans who 
fail to see any reason for U. S. committments in the U. N., 
NATO, or SEATO. They would like very unrealistically 
to return to an older era when we could stand alone and 
could make all of our own decisions.
It would be all very well and good if we could remove 
ourselves from the world arena until such time as we were 
attacked, yet we cannot. It is not enough to defend democ­
racy in this country. If we wish to insure its survival, we 
must protect its presence everywhere whether it be South 
East Asia or South America.
By failing to meet our responsibilities in foreign lands, 
we bring the danger closer to our own shores. It is true 
that we have a great deal to offer our allies. But they too 
have a great deal to offer us.
Whether we can balance the forces of individual liberty 
and national security and whether we can continue to face 
up to our responsibility in foreign affairs, remain to be seen. 
It is certain however, that the survival of democracy is as 
dependent upon these considerations as upon our ability 
to resist Communist attack.
Parking Permit 
Given to All
The administration has passed 
the parking program recommended 
to them by Student Congress. Next 
year any person will be able to 
purchase a permit, allowing him to 
park in any available place in 
Skibo or Edwards parking lot. This 
permit does not guarantee a park­
ing space, but will enable the per­
mit holder to search for one that 
is available. In a sense, this is a 
hunting license. It would appear, 
however, that from a statistical 
consideration, there should be a 
space for almost any student. 
These permits will be sold on the 
day of registration for $5. This 
program is such that it will give 
any person a chance to purchase 
a parking permit if he so desires. 
Complete details will be sent to 
each student in the registration kit 
late this August.
Panofsky T alks 
At Sigma Xi
As part of its 25th Anniversary 
celebration the Carnegie chapter 
of the Society of the Sigma Xi has 
arranged for Dr. Hans Panofsky, 
Professor of Meteorology at the 
Pennsylvania State University, to 
deliver a series of talks on Thurs­
day and Friday, May 24 and 25. 
On Thursday he will present a 
Sigma Xi Public Lecture on 
“Weather Forecasting According to 
Physical Laws” at 8:00 P.M. in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. This talk 
will be of general interest and the 
public is cordially invited to at­
tend.
At 2:30 P.M. on Friday Dr. 
Panofsky will discuss his own field 
of research in a colloquium talk 
on “Recent Advances in At­
mospheric Turbulence,” This will 
be held in Room 11, Machinery 
Hall.
In addition to presenting these 
lectures, Dr. Panofsky is especially 
interested in talking to individual 
students about graduate study and 
career opportunities in the at­
mospheric sciences. The advent of 
space exploration has opened up 
whole new areas of atmospheric 
research and has created an in­
creasing need for atmospheric 
scientists, as both teachers and 
researchers..
Dr. Palofsky will have up-to- 
date information on graduate fel­
lowships, scholarships and assist- 
antships. On Friday morning from 
9:30 to 12:00 he will be in Skibo, 
Room 40; and in the afternoon 
from 1:30 to 2:30 he will be in 
Porter Hall 225B.
This Week In Pittsburgh
Wednesday, May 23
Concert — An Evening of Folk Music sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy at 
8:30 p.m. Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall (Admission 
charge)
Drama Department Play — “Puntila” opens (will run 
through May 29)
Thursday, May 24
Concert — Pittsburgh Public Schools Spring Music 
Festival. Carnegie Music Hall 8:15 p.m.
Film Arts — Maidchen in Uniform (Germany, 1932) with 
Leontine Sagen, C. I. T. Porter Hall 100 
Friday, May 25 
Syria Mosque — Ella Fitzgerald 
Saturday, May 26
Concert — Carnegie Awards Festival Concert, Carnegie 
Music Hall 8:30 p.m.
Sunday, May 27
Free Organ Recital — Carnegie Music Hall 3:00 
Exhibition — Color Slides presented by the Photographic 
Section of the Academy of Science and Art. Carnegie 
Institute Lecture Hall, 2:30 
CONTINUING EVENTS
Fine Arts — Photographs by James Blair, Gallery K, 
third floor 
Nixon — “West Side Story”
Playhouse
Theater Upstairs — “Zoo Story” and “An American 
Dream”
Hamlet St. Theater — “Three Penny Opera”
Playhouse Junior — “Pied Piper of Hamelin”
Craft Ave. Theater — “South Pacific”
Gateway — “Experiment in Terror”
Penn — “Judgment at Nuremburg”
Stanley — “The Day the Earth Caught Fire”
Fulton — “El Cid”
Squirrel Hill — “Last Year at Marienbad”
Guild — “Only Two Can Play”
Shadyside — “Carry On Constable”
Buhl Planetarium — “Voice of the Storm”
Exhibition — WTork of Graduate Students, Hewlett 
Galleries, C.I.T. Sculpture by Tillie Speyer; Gallery 
J. third floor, Fine Arts 
Coming May 31 — June 6, Three Rivers Arts Festival at the 
Gateway Center. Includes classical, jazz, and folk music 
performances, drama, and demonstrations of arts and 
crafts. (Admission will be free)
Freedom Of Ideas
[continued from page 4] 
Those who offer us the slogan 
“better dead than Red” are the 
real defeatists. The greatest goal 
they can envision for the Ameri­
can people is for them to shout 
eighteenth-century patriotic slo­
gans as they are annihilated in 
a twentieth-century war. There 
is no place in our American lead­
ership for such defeatists if our 
nation is to survive in this nuclear 
age as a free and civilized society.
Lincoln Wolfenstein, 
Professor of Physics
Vive “Viv”
A Great Lesson
Editor, the Tartan:
I was delighted to see Mr. Ron­
ald Wertel’s letter in the recent 
TARTAN on the subject of “Viv.” 
I wanted to write, but hesitated 
because I had, though in a minor 
way, been a of that special
last evening. Now that he has 
broken the ice (to use an inap­
propriate metaphor these days), I 
hasten to add a grand Amen.
I think he spoke very truly 
when he made a connection be­
tween “Viv” and Mr. Carnegie’s 
motto. Even at the risk of sound­
ing sententious and professorial, I 
want to say that such a unity of 
planning, preparation and per­
formance can only be called one 
thing: exciting learning. At least 
three of the people most concerned 
with the show have told me that 
working on it provided them with 
the most memorable and valuable 
segment in all of their college 
education. It’s not that for every­
one, of course, but surely the kind 
of delight in learning which 
Scotch ’n Soda brought is noth­
ing more (or less) than the very 
thing which exciting education 
can always bring. It may come in 
a panel discussion of ALL THE 
KING’S MEN, in an argument 
about Raskolnikov’s psychological
motivations, in a beautiful pro­
gram at Film Arts or an especially 
fine Ceilidm session—or in a con­
centrated work period on ”Viv.” 
Socrates and his friends felt it 
in the shadow of the Acropolis; 
Marie Curie felt it toiling away 
in her laboratory; a researcher in 
an air-conditioned library may 
even feel it! Finally, these activi­
ties all come to the same if they 
offer the aware human being 
meaningful experience, challenge 
and delight.
“Viv” gave that kind of a lift 
to everyone connected with it, 
and they all deserve high praise. 
I loved having a small part in the 
fun. But most of all I am proud 
to see an extracurricular activity 
become so genuine an extension 
of the way of life that we have 
believed in and fostered here at 
Carnegie Tech for so long.
Vive “Viv” and all her kind!
Beekman W. Cottrell, 
Assistant Professor, 
Department of English
Tecli Students Revive 
Commuter’s Citcom Clan
Citcom Clan, a social organiza­
tion for commuting students, was 
started many years ago by a group 
that felt there was a need to bring 
commuters together in a social set­
ting. An attempt is being made 
to revive the Clan.
Our aim is to provide a maxi­
mum amount of fun and friend­
ship for a minimum amount of 
work and money. We would like 
to have all types of parties—swim­
ming parties, hayrides, square 
dances, Monte Carlo nights, pic­
nics, dances, boat rides, and golf­
ing, as well as our annual cave 
crawl. The Clan once participated 
in Spring Carnival and intramural 
activities, too. With your support, 
this would again be possible.
The Clan is open to all indepen­
dent commuters, including gradu­
ate students. Members and their 
dates are admitted free to all 
parties. Last year’s dues were only 
$7.00 for the whole year.
A meeting is being held in Room 
56, Skibo, at 4:30 on Thursday, 
May 24. Unless enough interest is 
shown in the organization at this 
time, the plans for next year’s 
activities will be dropped and the 
Clan will be disbanded. All of this 
year’s members are requested to 
attend. If you want more infor­
mation about our group and can­
not attend the meeting, contact 
us through Box 413, campus mail.
The survival of Citcom Clan, the 
only organization devoted entirely 
to commuters, depends on your 
interest being shown this week.
SENIORS
Keep in the know about your Alma 
Mater aiter you graduate•
Purchase a subscription to the 
CARNEGIE TARTAN
For the Next Year
Write to the Carnegie TARTAN, Campus Mail 
Room 50 Skibo, or call Mu 2-4557
For Shoes See
VALLY'S
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEM Nan dOMEW 
U. S. KEDS 
JARFMAW Nan LIOTSHERM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Nirht ’till » P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 23, 1962
i
Henderson Elected Pres. CFP Choses New Committees 
Of Exective Council
Henry Henderson, President of 
Men's Dorm Council, was elected 
President of Executive Council by 
the new Council members last 
Monday.
Henry stated that he hoped the 
Executive Council could take a 
more active role in leading and 
shaping policy for Tech’s Student 
Government. He hopes to develop 
ways in which the students can 
take better advantage of Tech’s 
faculty through both academic and 
extracurricular activities. Henry 
feels that Executive Council can 
do much to influence student spirit, 
moral attitudes, and participation 
in the coming year.
Council, Sigma Nu fraternity, 
Student Undergraduate Advisory 
Council, the Tartan Editorial 
Board, Delta Skull, Omicron Delta 
Kappa, Co-Chairman Student 
Union Committee and WRCT.
The other members of Executive 
Council and the activities they 
represent are: Mark Appelbaum, 
Student Congress President; Jane 
Scott, President of Women's Dor­
mitory Council; John Bertucci, 
President of the Council of Frater­
nity Presidents; Elaine Hinkel, 
President of Panhellenic Council; 
Marty Ackermann, Activities Hon- 
oraries; Pete Kost, Scholastic Hon- 
oraries; Bob Stocking, religious
organizations; Tom Ference, mis- 
His other activities have in- cellaneous organizations; and Al- 
eluded Presidency of Men’s Dorm lan Kullen, publications.
Residence Seminar Provides 
Daily Corporate Worship
A Residence Seminar for com­
muting women students was initi­
ated at the beginning of the se­
mester by the Westminster Foun­
dation and the Wesley Foundation 
©f Pittsburgh. The Seminar was 
located at the Westminster House, 
5220 Forbes Avenue.
Students who participated in 
the Seminar made certain con­
crete commitments to one another 
to participate in daily corporate 
worship, to study assigned read­
ings and attend a weekly seminar, 
to keep the House in order and 
prepare meals, to be responsible 
to regulations governing women’s 
dormitory life at Tech, and to 
perform some service to the CIT 
campus or the largei community. 
The Seminar was designed for 
residents only, primarily because 
it was felt that the common life 
of work, worship and study pro­
vided opportunities for continuity 
in the seminar conversation. Also, 
it was believed that this would 
make it possible to recover time 
that is ofen lost in the student’s
ing upon the vocation of the stu­
dent to be a student, and the 
Seminar attempted to enhance 
this, rather than to interfere with 
it.
This Residence Seminar bears 
some resemblance to many such 
experiments on campuses across 
the nation. The most notable of 
these is perhaps the Faith-in-Life 
Community in Austin, Texas, 
which recently received notice in 
“Time” magazine and in “The 
Christian Schoiar.*’ An example 
closer to home is that of the 
Koinonia at Penn State.
The Westminster Foundation is 
the campus ministry of the Pres­
byterian Church and the United 
Church of Christ; the Wesley 
Foundation is the campus ministry 
of the Methodist Church. The 
staff are Dr. J. Stanley Barlow, 
The Rev. Mr. Paul E. Scharding, 
and Miss Joyce Stoutamyer.
It is anticipated that the Semi­
nar will be continued another 
year. Graduate students as well
day. There was continued focus- !as understates are invited to______________________________________| apply. Anyone interested in fur-
| ther details may address his in- 
; quiries to Miss Stoutamyer at 
| 5220 Forbes Avenue, or telephone 
her at MU 3-5036.Accident Rate 
Falls in 1962PiDE Thanks 
WRCT For A 
Job Well Done
Last week, the officers of CFP 
met and chose the new commit­
tees and committee chairman for 
the 1962-63 school year. In view 
of recent developments in the sys­
tem and re-evaluation of the 
place of the Fraternity on the 
Tech campus, a new series of 
pledge committees were sent up. 
These include a scholarship com­
mittee for pledges which will 
oversee all pledges and report on 
those with low factors. These 
pledges will be recommended for 
curtailed activities and enforced 
study programs. In line with this 
committee, there will be a CFP 
Library of people and material to 
provide help to any pledge in 
scholastic difficulties.
The new Pledge Training Com­
mittee will be dealing with what 
is perhaps the most important 
function of CFP - training the 
new freshman not only to be 
“good fraternity men” (a rather 
obscure term), but also responsi­
ble citizens of their community - 
whether it be the narrow confines 
of CIT or the broader limits of 
the outside world.
Already established equally im-
For the first time in seven 
years the total casualties from mo­
tor vehicle accidents over a calen­
dar year decreased with a slight 
drop noted in 1961, according to I Several prominent personalities 
a report released today by the an(j organizations have already 
Travelers Insurance Companies. i taken time to thank WRCT for 
Injuries dropped a little less its Spring Carnival activities and 
than one percent to 3,057,000 and j at Sunday evening’s Pi Delta Ep- 
deaths by about the same percent- j s|ion meeting, the journalistic hon- 
age to 37.600, a spokesman for 1 orary added its congratulations, 
the 97-year old insurance com- j WRCT’s coverage of the plank 
pany said. | jousting, buggy races, sorority re-
The authoritative report by The j lays, and faculty egg throw kept 
Travelers has been issued annual- ! interested persons up to date on
Jy since 1931 with the exception 
©f the war years. More than 
3,300,000 copies are distributed an­
nually.
“We realize a one percent drop
results. Their beautifully designed 
and constructed booth on the mid­
way was a refreshing change from 
the traditional ideas. Their light­
ing and sound systems in the gym
may seem like a small figure to j made it possible for the Weavers’ 
many people,” The Travelers 1 concert to be both seen and heard, 
spokesman said, “but it repre- j Their sound systems which allow- 
sents 400 persons alive today who j ed dancing throughout Skibo on 
would have died and 21,000 less j Saturday night permitted accom- 
injuries than would have been the ; modation of the crowd, 
case had last year’s -atio held j In short, Spring Carnival this 
even.” | year was made much more enjoy-
"We sincerely hope that this de- able through WRCT’s efforts and 
crease in the numbers of killed, Pi D E feels they are to be con- 
mained and injured reflects a ! gratulated upon proving them- 
trend that will continue and that j selves a “sound” service to the 
the nation’s drivers are beginning | campus.
to realize the great loss caused j--------------------------------------------------———
by their negligance and indiffer­
ence,” he continued.
The report showed that exces­
sive speed is still the number one [continued from page 1]
killer, accounting for 33.3 percent Stocking, and William McLay re 
©f the deaths and 37.5 percent bf ceived gold keys, 
the injuries. Almost 83 percent of i Special awards were also pre- 
the accidents, causing death and j sented on Call Day. Lynn Adams 
injury were the direct result of | received the Tartan Award for the 
violations of the rules of the road. IM Man of the Year. This award 
By contrast, during 1960 there was based on service to and par- 
were 400 more deaths than the j ticipation on the IM board. The 
year before and an increase of i Alfred Cerrito Award was pre- 
208,000 injuries over 1959. sented to Bruce Brosius.
Seminar Discusses 
New Methods
One of the more interesting re­
cent developments in engineer- 
education has been in the tecahing 
of engineering design and synthe­
sis. Tech was a pioneer i» this 
kind of education through the de­
velopment of courses in engineer­
ing analysis and design which 
have been taught in several of our 
departments since 1939. Recent in­
terest has centered on the applica­
tion of newer analytical and com­
putational methods to design and 
on the changes in engineering 
education which are made nec­
essary as a result of these new 
methods. Several members of the 
faculty have indicated interest in 
a series of seminars on this sub­
ject. The purposes of the seminars 
would be to assess Carnegie’s pre­
sent course offerings in design 
and synthesis and to plan our edu­
cation in this important area for 
the future. Both members of our 
own faculty and speakers from 
other schools would be invited to 
address the seminars, 
j Because of the great importance 
! of this subject, it seemed desirable 
to schedule at least one seminar 
this spring in preparation for a 
more detailed program next fall. 
Therefore, Professor Allen B. 
Rosenstein of the Department of 
Engineering at the University of 
California at Los Angeles will 
address the first Faculty Seminar 
on Engineering Design. This sem­
inar was held on May 17 and 18 in 
Porter Hall 100.
UCLA has been doing a great 
deal of work in recent years on 
the development of a design-ori­
ented engineering curriculum and 
Professor Rosenstein has been one 
of the members of the group re­
sponsible for this effort. He dis­
cussed the UCLA undergraduate 
program in the Thursday session 
and devoted the Friday meet­
ing to graduate work and research 
in engineering design. A paper, 
“Analysis, Synthesis and Optimi­
zation in a Design-Oriented Cur­
riculum,” by Rosenstein in the 
December 1961 issue of the Jour­
nal of Engineering Education, is 
descriptive of the UCLA program 
and of the topics discussed in the 
first seminar.
Honoraries Spring Call
The Chi Omega Social Science 
Prize was awarded to Alice Dieck- 
haus. Katalin Bodor received the 
Cwens Scholarship.
Phil Jones was the recipient of 
Pi Delta Epsilon’s Journalism 
Award and Becky Krauss received 
PiDE’s national Medal of Merit 
for her outstanding work as editor 
of the Carnegie Technical.
portant committees of CFP in­
clude Rush, Public Relations, Fra­
ternity Orientation, and Scholar­
ship.
Committee heads are: Dave 
Vandelinde, SN - Pledge Scholar­
ship; Jan Anstatt, BTP - Rush; 
Frank Jones, SAE - Scholarship; 
Roland Eisen, BSR - Public Re­
lations; John Weyer, ATO - Fra­
ternity Orientation; and Ed De-
vecka, PKA - Pledge Training.
These six committees actually 
function as one large committee 
handling all aspects of Fraternity 
life at Tech. The new CFP group, 
representing all houses and pos­
sessing a comprehensiveness of 
ideas too long absent from CFP, 
may well give the Tech Frater­
nity man much to be hopeful 
about during the coming year.
On CamposwithMaxShulman
(Author of "I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”,“The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
This is the final column of my eighth year of writing for the 
makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, and this year, as in every pre­
ceding year, when I come to the last column of the season, I 
come to a problem.
My contract with the makers of Marlboro calls for me to 
write a humor column and, truly, I do the best I can—all things 
considered, I am not, I should explain, a jolly man by nature. 
Why should I be? First of all, I am shorter than everybody. 
Second, there are moths in my cashmere jacket. Third, I work 
in television.
All the same, when it comes time to write this column, I light 
a good Marlboro Cigarette, put aside my trauma, and try with 
all the strength in my tiny body to make some jokes. Some­
times it works better than others, but on the last column of the 
year, it just flatly doesn’t work at all.
Even in the very beginning this was true—and that, you will re­
call, was eight years ago when I was relatively young and strong 
and had not yet developed that nasty knock in my transmission. 
Well do I remember sitting down to write the final column of my 
first year. Day followed barren day, and not a yock, not a boff, 
not a zinger did I produce. I was about to give up humor and 
take a job selling mechanical dogs when all of a sudden, in a 
blinding flash, I realized why I couldn’t think of any jokes 1
I leapt up from my typewriter and ran as fast as my little 
fat legs would carry me to the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, 
and I tugged my forelock, and I said, “Sirs, I am well aware 
that you have engaged me to write a humor column, but today, 
as I approach the final column of the season, I am far too misty 
to be funny, for the final column of the season is, after all, a 
leave-taking, and when I think of saying goodbye to my audience 
—the swellest audience any columnist ever had—the college 
students of America—wonderful human beings, every man and
woman of them—wise but kindly—astute but compassionate— 
perspicacious but forbearing—when, sirs, I think of saying good­
bye to such an audience, I am too shook up even to consider 
levity, and so I ask you, sirs, to let me, in the final column of the 
year, forego humor and instead write a simple, dignified, 
straightforward farewell.”
Then I took out my bandanna, wiped my eyes, ears, nose, and 
throat and waited for a reply from the makers of Marlboro.
They sat around the polished board rbom table, the makers, 
their handsome brows knit in concentration, puffing thought­
fully on the Marlboros in their tattooed hands. At length they 
spoke. “Yes,” they said simply.
I never doubted they would say yes. People who make a 
cigarette as good as Marlboro must themselves be good. People 
who lavish such care on blending tobaccos so mild and flavor­
ful, on devising a filter so clean and white, on boxing a flip-top 
box so flip-top, on packing a soft pack so soft—people like that 
are one hundred percent with me!
And so from that day forward, the final column of the year 
—including the one you are, I devoutly hope, now reading— 
makes no attempt to be funny, but is instead * simple thank 
you and au revoir.
Thank you and au revoir, makers of Marlboro. The memory 
of our eight years together will remain ever fresh in my heart, 
and I would like to state for fill the world to hear that if you 
want me back again next year, I shall expect a substantial 
raise in salary.
Thank you and au revoir, college students of America. May 
good luck attend all your ventures. Stay well. Stay happy. 
Stay loose. e eew m«* * •
Small Max hat said it all. We, the makers of Marlboro Ciga­
rettes, can only add a heartfelt second chorus: Stay well* 
Stay happy. Stay loose•

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May »3, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 1
BAGGAGE! i*u can take m*re with y*u *n • Greyh*und If y*u prefer, tend laundry *r extra Baggage *n ahead by Greyh*und Package Expre**. It'« there in h*ur»...and c*st« y*u le^s.
GREYHOUND
Express 1-2300Eleventh at Liberty
IBrAM DBr iR? J.r!BR,Pf yh.rg DR dihArg iaMr DBrgro
NEW YORK SEATTLE
YPrw?h! kbluvz LR,Pf D.ad k3vu3z
CHICAGO
YPrw?h! kbvunz WR,Pf D.ad 5k3bubv
CLEVELAND
YPrw?h! kvu4z WR,Pf D.ad k4u2z
WASHINGTON
YPrw?h! ktu3z WR,Pf D.ad 5kbCuO
PHILADELPHIA
YPrw?h! kbnubz WR,Pf D.ad kbtuln
BOSTON
YPrw?h! k3nuO WR,Pf D.ad Cl2u'C
YPrw?h! $t>8.85 WR,Pf D.ad $10^.05
LOS ANGELES
YPrw?h! $«8.85 WR,Pf D.ad kbbvun"
MIAMI
YPrw?h! klau95 WR,Pf D.ad k'4ul" 
j lnw:h! •xA,.gaRP
Eleventh at Liberty 
EXpress 1-2300
Editor Jane Barbrow and Bill Denton discuss photos from Thistle files.
Andrew William Oravetz, a me­
chanical engineering major, was 
honored by the Evening Student 
Council as the outstanding eve­
ning school student. The award 
was presented to him at the ESC’s 
annual banquet. He was chosen 
from fifty-three degree candidates.
Mr. Oravetz has studied at Car­
negie Tech for nine years. He is 
a graduate of West Allegheny 
Senior High School, Oakdale, Pa. 
He presently is assistant to the 
chief mechanical engineer at Sa- 
lem-Brosius. He is vice president 
of Sigma Delta Phi and a mem­
ber of the Newman Club. Profes­
sionally, he holds a membership 
in the American Society of Me­
chanical Engineers.
The award was based on his 
scholastic and activity record, 
personal traits and characteristics, 
type and responsibility of em­
ployment, and the period of time 
required for completion of the de­
gree program. The award con­
sists of the awardee’s name be­
ing engraved on a plaque which 
is displayed on the first floor of 
AH, the presentation of a key and 
a certificate of award.
Another evening school student, 
Ronald Harry Craig, an electrical 
engineei’ing major, was also hon­
ored as an outstanding student. 
He also has attended Tech for 
nine years and is currently em­
ployed at the Westinghouse Elec­
tric Corporation.
The awards were presented by 
Fred Ackerman, president, Eve­
ning Student Council. Mrs. Ruth 
Ann Ramsey was the main speak­
er for the evening.
New S’n S Board Plans Ahead, 
“Viv” Enters Show Competition
The new Board of Directors of 
the Scotch ’n Soda Club held its 
first meeting last Sunday. The 
new members, under the Club’s 
new president, Regina Ress, will 
meet every Sunday while school 
is in session.
Elected by the previous Board, 
the new Board includes Lois Cro- 
co, Dean Brown, Dinah Mathias, 
Sue Gronich, Butch Davis, Rich 
Elkman, Dendy Bers, Dick Moore, 
Carole Haber, Shelley Kaplan, 
Jean Renaud, and Regina Ress. On 
the Advisory Board are Ed. Kant 
and Bill Boag.
One of the points of prime in­
terest was the announcement that 
“Viv” produced a profit in excess 
of $500. It was the club’s first 
profit in three years.
The most important item on the 
agenda was the plans for the 1963 
show. At present there are at least 
three scripts in the running. The 
Board has asked that anyone 
wishing to enter a script do so by
Friday, May 25 in campus mail, 
box 258. Scenarios are requested 
if the script is not completed.
This week the S ’n S Club is 
entering their recent show, “Viv,” 
in the 2nd Annual “Varsity Show” 
competition. The contest is open 
to all student organizations of col­
leges and universities in the U.S. 
and Canada who have produced a 
musical comedy or revue during 
the 1961-62 school year.
Prizes of $500 are awarded to 
the composers of the best music, 
to the writers of the best lyrics, 
and to the organization or club 
which sponsors the winning show. 
The music and lyrics must be the 
original work of undergraduates.
Last year’s awards went to 
Yale, Northwestern and Brown 
Universities.
Having received many fine com­
pliments on “Viv,” the writers and 
the entire Scotch ’n Soda Club are 
very hopeful of gaining this na­
tional recognition. The winners 
will be announced next October.
Tech Receives Foundation Aid
The National Science Founda- [ 
tion has awarded five grants to­
taling over $70,000 to Tech.
Two of the grants, amounting 
to almost $50,000, were awarded 
as part of NSF’s “Undergraduate 
Instructional Scientific Equip­
ment Program.” The grants, made 
for the purchase of modern sci­
entific equipment, were awarded 
in the departments of physics and 
chemistry.
The department of mathematics
: was awarded two research grants 
totaling more than $15,000. The 
money will support research on 
“A Quasi-Linear Wave Equation,” 
under the direction of assistant 
professor Victor J. Mitzel, and 
“Finite Linear Groups” directed 
by Henry S. Leonard, Jr., also 
an assistant professor.
Almost $6,000 was awarded to 
the department of electrical en­
gineering for the “Renovation Fa­
cilities in the Field of Cryogenic 
Electronics.”
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
CF•IGENGZGeJ Ge ENN KGe:C YH LEGWIScC
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
b3k TR,q,rD CDu <eh». IR.Pr. HR.brg hPf TR,q,rD)
New Honrs: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Dally MU. 2-9969
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oravetz Receives 
Eve School Award
Thistle Explains 
Publication Delay
Chances are, y*u kn*w that Greyh*und fares are less than 
any *ther f*rm *f public transp*rtati*n. What y*u pr*bably 
d*n't realize is h*w much less. F*r a pleasant surprise, 
check the m*ney-saving Greyh*und fares bel*w. i*u’ll see 
at a glance why it always pays t* insist *n exclusive 
Greyh*und Scenicruiser Service?..and leave the driving t* ust
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
Photographer A1 Kanegsberg studies subject for picture for this 
year’s Thistle.
«^Representatives
t continued from page 1] 
•t most other schools. Reserve a 
copy now, because the price is 
going up to seven dollars on June 
1.
Following is a list of Thistle 
sales representatives: Fraternities: 
SN, Harry Hovel and Ron Athl- 
©ff; ATO, Joe Sheldrick; DTD, 
JZon Schroeder; TDP, Mike Freed­
man; PKA, Andy Langlois; BTP, 
Joe Oldfield; SAE, Tom Snow; 
TX, Mike Bender; DU, Bill Den­
ton; PKT, Larry Lang; and BSR, 
Don Kaletski. Sororities: AEP,
Barbara Stoller and Carol Lewis; 
KKG, Lynne Parkhill; SK, Bon­
nie Austin; DG, Alma Gaily; 
ChiO, Marilyn Whitaker; DDD, 
Judy Suhay; and KAT, Alice 
Dieckhaus. Women’s Dorms: Es­
ther Lieber, 2B11; Sharon Brady, 
^B10; Gwen Howells, 3A3; Jean 
Holsinger, 2B10; Marion Thomas- 
sy, 2B9; Sandy Ponomareff, 2B9; 
Verna Ream, 2B3; Jane Samuels, 
B33; Sharon Shuttleworth, 4B4; 
Helen Beatty, 2B3; Barbara Slo- 
vin, 5B4; Nancy Green, 2B4; Gin- 
fty Uliss, 2B4; Pat Duncan, 2D; 
Charlotte Shapiro, 3D9; Nancy Jo- 
*eph, 5B11; Carol Bannon, 2D7; 
Irene Ganberg, 27 Forbes; and 
Jfrlly Breza, Schiller, 
lien’s Dorms: McGill, Stan Sel- 
kow-108; Scobbell, Glen Mehltret- 
ter-117; Boss, Charles Reicher- 
311; Hamerschlag - 1A&B, Dick 
Mitchell-A-313; 2B&3B, Dave
Robinson-A-303; 2A&3A, Pete
Herwitt-A-301; Donner - A-level, 
P.J. Grieco-A-29; 1st floor, Frank 
Brady-131; 3rd floor, Tom Mil­
ler-338; Welch, Steve Zimmer- 
5; and Henderson, Bill 
-204.
ImaginationShoivn 
In 1962 Thistle
“The train of imagination trav­
els on the rails of lines. Its win­
dows are the associations through 
which we give significance to open 
spaces.” This has been the idea 
ever present in the minds of the 
members of the 1962 Thistle Staff. 
For with imagination has been 
coupled creativity, the result be­
ing a yearbook of which all will 
be proud. Layout incorporates a 
variety of photo sizes and brief 
written material patterned after 
that seen in the Fall issue of the 
Carnegie Quarterly. The object is 
to set off the excellent photo­
graphy w’ith fine layout. The com­
plex process is justified by the re­
sults when a page is seen in print. 
Photography, art work, written 
material, layout, and text paper, 
all combine to yield a pleasing 
whole. The Staff is confident that 
all who order the 1962 Thistle 
will be greatly satisfied.
The Thistle Staff is often con­
fronted with inquiries regarding 
publication and distribution of the 
yearbook; the specific question 
being “Why isn’t the Carnegie 
Thistle completed by June and 
distributed to the students at that 
time?” The reason for this seem­
ingly unnecessary delay is the fact 
that the Staff considers com­
mencement an integral part of 
the school year. Not until pictures 
are taken at graduation is the 
pictorial representation of campus 
life complete. Consequently, this 
delay is for the benefit of the 
purchaser as it allots sufficient 
time for a book which covers the 
whole year. This is the funda­
mental purpose of a yearbook.
READ MORE, RETAIN 
MORE GET BETTER GRADES
Learn to read 300 
f to 1,000% faster—
with understanding 
an enjoyment impossible 
in conventional 
reading methods.
This new way to 
read will help 
you do better on exams, cut your 
hours of study to give you more 
time for extracurricular activities. 
Taught in small classes in cities 
all over the country with personal 
attention by skilled teachers. 
Classes now forming/ Ask for our 
FREE brochure.
EVELiN WOOD 
Reading Dynamics Institute 
Of Pittsburgh, Inc.
Penn-Sheraton Hotel
(1st yiRR.)
William Penn Place 
Pittsburgh 30, Pa.
Phone: COurt 1-5933

---------------------------------------------------

Pige g — TUE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 23, 1962
Fraternities Elect Officers 
For Promising 1962-63 Year
n The 1962-63 Fraternity officers 
are:
ATO
Worthy Master—William Mc- 
Kniglit
Worthy Chaplain—John Weyer 
Worthy Keeper of the Ex­
chequer—John Blackwood 
Worthy Keeper of the Annals— 
Bob Forbes 
Worthy Scribe—Gale Morgan 
Social Chairman—Larry Richie 
BSR
Chancellor—Rodger Simon 
Vice Chancellor—Earl Davis 
Secretary—Peter Herwitt 
Treasurer—Allan Kornfeld 
Social Chairman—Jack Turk 
BTP
President—Peter Jan Anstatt 
Vice President—James Cheline 
Treasurer—Paul Ossip 
Secretary—Bill Stratton 
Social Chairman—Guv Mellick 
DTD
President—Dick Scott 
Vice President—John Darringer 
Secretary—David Graves 
Treasurer—R. Allan Westerberg 
Social Chairman—Lester Ned- 
ham
DU
President—James Morris 
Vice President—Bill Brinfield 
Secretary—Jeff Wilier 
Treasurer—David Ewing 
Social Chairman—Andrew Ste- 
fani
KS
Grand Master—Ronald Skeddle 
Grand Procurator—Jack Scholl 
Grand Master of Ceremonies— 
Fred Sammel 
Grand Treasurer—Terry Hanu- 
shek
Grand Scribe—Peter Rzansnicki 
Social Chairman—Dale Uhler 
PIKA
President—Edward Devecka 
Vice President—Tom Pyke 
Secretary—Douglas Saunders 
Treasurer—Stan Spindler 
Social Chairman—Walter Page 
PKT
President—Howard Pifer 
Vice President—Henry Gailliot 
Secretary—Robert Nicholson 
Treasurer—Thomas Merlino 
Social Chairman—Henry Block 
SAE
Eminent Archon—Frank S. 
Jones
Eminent Deputy Archon— 
Rudolph Molckude 
Eminent Recorder—Robert 
Williams 
Eminent Treasurer—Jon White 
Social Chairman—Edward Bauer
SN
Commander—Dale Douglass 
Lt. Commander—Blaine Cliver 
Recorder—Jay Lawrence 
Treasurer—Charles Anderson 
Social Chairman—Donald Smith
c:F
Consul—Steven Berliner 
Vice Consul—Marty Skowron 
Scribe—Kenneth White 
Financial Chairman—Robert 
Rosenberg 
Social Chairman—David Miller
TX
President—Gordon Pike 
Vice President—Dick Wilson 
Secretary—Robert Griscon 
Treasurer—Leonard Miller 
Social Chairman—Robert 
Hawkins
Many Lectures Planned 
For Alumni Conference
Carnegie Tech will give its alumni an opportunity for 
nostalgia mixed with intellectual stimulation on June 8 and 
9 by combining its first spring Homecoming with the Second 
Carnegie Conference.
The Carnegie Conferences were started by the Alumni 
Federation and the faculty to help to fulfill the university’s 
responsibility toward the con-^
tinuing education of its alumni. 
This year’s theme is “Antidote for 
Obsolescence:” Alumni will be 
told that only continuous self-ed­
ucation can guarantee profession­
al performance in our rapidly- 
changing world, and that only able 
performance in politics, in the arts 
and sciences, and in the basic act 
of raising a family can assure a 
strong United States.
Leo A. Finzi, Buhl Professor of 
electrical engineering, will talk on 
“Superconductive Devices.” He 
will discuss advanced research in
abreast of new management tools 
and ideas.
John R. Coleman professor and 
head of the department of eco­
nomics, will speak on “Learning 
about the Community and the 
World.” Professor Coleman will 
show how today’s managers must 
be constantly aware both of busi­
ness opportunities and of their re­
sponsibilities as citizens in a 
changing wrld.
Lee W. Gregg, professor of psy­
chology, will speak on “Man and 
Machine Behavior as Seen by a
what he terms “the strange world j Computer.'
of superconductivity,” mentioning j One symposium and one lecture 
applications of superconductors to; on the fine arts are scheduled. Un-
lossless power transformers, fric- 
tionless bearings, computer infor­
mation storage, and others.
George Bugliarello, asistant pro-
der the title “Creativity in Music,” 
Roland J. Leich, associate profes­
sor of music, and Nikolai Lopatni- 
koff, professor of music, will dis
fessor of civil engineering, will cuss and perform their own com-
lecture “The Flow of Blood. 
Blood, when flowing, is unlike 
any other fluid, and Professor 
Bugliarello will discuss the re­
search program which studies the 
characteristics of blood with high­
speed cinematography.
“Electron Microscope Shows 
Metal Structure at 200,000x” is 
the title of the lecture by William 
H. Robinson, assistant professor of 
metallurgical engineering.
David R. Day, assistant profes­
sor of social studies and head of
positions.
“Nine People Took a Chance 
is the title of a lecture by Robert 
L. Lepper, professor of painting, 
design, and sculpture. He will 
show how imaginative artists are 
pioneering in new forms of ex­
pression, and will discuss Car­
negie Tech’s relationship to con­
temporary art activity.
In a lecture entitled “Religion 
—Defense—Architecture,” Hans 
A. Vetter, professor of architec­
ture, will describe: the decline of
the department of business and the architect; the need for educat- 
social studies, will talk on “So- j ed architects in our changing 
ciometrics — An Organization world; and a plan for complete re-
Yardstick.”
Melvin L. Anshen, professor of 
Industrial administration, under 
the title “Learning to Be a Policy 
Maker,” will discuss how growth 
as an adminsitrator depends on 
continued learning, and how to 
prepare oneself to handle manage­
ment problems.
William W. Cooper, professor of 
economics and industrial adminis­
tration, will lecture on keeping
newal of architectural education.
Allen Newell, Institute Profes­
sor of systems and communica­
tion sciences, will talk on the 
question, “Why Program a Com­
puter to Play Chess?” He will 
show how programming a com­
puter to play chess can help us 
to analyze human decision-mak­
ing and though processes.
An other lecture, entitled “Stra- 
l continued on page 11]
New World Review
PeaceEssayContest 
Offers $500 In Prize
The third peace essay contest 
sponsored by New World Review 
is entitled “How to Build a World 
of Peace.” ?500 worth of prizes 
will be awarded including a first 
prize of $200, $100 for second 
place and $50 for third place, 
with 10 honorable mentions of $15 
each. The essay, presumably will 
start from the premise that peace 
and the survival of the human 
race depends upon the settlement 
of East-West disputes by nego­
tiations, elimination of nuclear 
weapons, and complete and uni­
versal disarmament. Although 
many will wish to bring in other 
issues, the essays should outline 
the steps that must be taken to 
achieve these main goals.
Judges for this contest are Dr. 
Jerome Davis, Leader of annual 
Peace Missions abroad; General 
Hugh B. Hester, Brigadier Gen­
eral, U.S. Army (Retired); Dr. 
Harry F. Ward, Professor Emeri­
tus of Christian Ethics, Union 
Theological Seminary. Rules for 
submitting an essay on the above 
subject are as follows:
1. Length—absolute maximum, 
1,000 words.
2.Deadline—postmarked not lat­
er than July 1, 1962.
3. Form—f our typewritten, 
double-spaced copies.
4. Name and information asked 
for below to be typed on a sepa­
rate sheet. (Judges will receive 
manuscripts without names).
a. Address b. Occupation
Send essays to New World Re­
view, Essay Contest Department, 
7th floor, 34 West 15th Street, 
New York 11, N. Y.
CFP Banquet
This year’s CFP social calendar 
was climaxed Friday, May 18, with 
the annual CFP Banquet at Ben 
Gross’s Restaurant near Wilkins- 
burg. The purpose of the banquet 
was twofold: one, to allow the new 
members of CFP to get together 
informally; and two, to reward the 
old members in a small way for 
their participation in CFP during 
the past year. Over thirty couples 
attended, as did Dean Milligan and 
Dean Swank. After a fine dinner 
and cocktail party, dynamic John 
Bertucci welcomed all, and the 
band played on—till 12:00 a.m.
Subscribe How 
at Hall Price*
You can read this world-famous 
daily newspaper for the next six 
months for $5.50, just holf th« 
regular subscription rote.
Get top news coverage. Enjoy 
special features. Clip for TARATN
AOFA work.
Send your order today. Enc!os# 
check or money order. Use cou­
pon below.
The Christian Science Monitor P-CK 
On* Norway St., Boston 15, Mass,
Send your newspaper for th« tim* 
checked.
? 6 months $5.50 ? 1 year $11 
G College Student ? Faculty Member
Name
Address
President’s Review 
Shows Queens, Drill
The Military Department will present the annual Presi­
dent’s Review, in the Tech Bowl, Thursday, May 24. At this 
time the Cadet Regiment and the Military Queens for the 
past year will be presented to Dr. J. C. Warner, and various 
awards will be given out. ?——-----------------------------------------
>
Pat Murray, the Military Ball 
Queen for 1962 and Honorary 
Regimental Commander, will be 
presented to Dr. Warner. Pat is a 
Business Studies major from Ash­
tabula, Ohio. In addition to Miss 
Murray, the Queen’s Court of the 
1962 Military Ball will be form­
ally introduced. It consists of 
Claire Ruge, Honorary Deputy 
Regimental Commander, Elizabeth 
Kim, Honorary 1st Battalion Com­
mander, and Peggy Riva, Honor­
ary 2nd Battalion Commander.
Miss Arlene Winner, the Persh­
ing Rifle Queen for 1962, will also 
be presented to Dr. Earner. Ar­
lene was Homecoming Queen in 
1961. She is a freshman Business 
Studies major from Mars, Pa. and 
a member of Delta Delta Delta 
sorority. Miss Winner was elected 
Queen of the PR company at Tech 
and progressed to be Sponsor of the 
entire PR regiment.
Besides the Queen presentation, 
an exhibition will be given by the 
Pershing Rifle drill team.
Many awards will be granted at 
this review. The Pittsburgh Chap­
ter S.A.M.E. Letter of Commenda­
tion will go to Thomas E. O’Con­
nell. The S.A.M.E. medals will go 
to Mike Ingram MSII James 
Brecker MSII and Ray Gaugler 
MSIV. The Department of the 
Army Superior Cadet awards will 
go to Luther S. Stevens MSI, Dave 
Blocher MSII, Guston Carlson
MSIII, and Charles A. Raquet 
MSIV. The Sons of the American 
Revolution will make awards to 
one basic and one advanced corps 
cadet. The resipients will be 
Stephen Nygerem basic and E. 
Kears Pollock advanced. The Re­
serve Officers Association will 
give awards to William Ellis and v) 
Don Foulk. The V.F.W. awards go 
to Nilo Niccolai and Jack Peven- 
stein. The Military Order of the 
World Wars will present an award 
to Victor E. Dobros. The Asso­
ciation of the U.S. Army R.O.T.C. 
will present an award to a junior 
Signal Corp and one junior Corp 
of Engineer students. Nels Broste 
and Ray Kubalak respectively will 
receive these awards. Frank Pio- 
trowski will get the Armed Forcesa) 
Communication and Elections As­
sociation Award, and Warren 
Askew the Armed Forces Chem­
ical Association Award. The last 
award will be the presentation 
of a Saber to Charles Raquet by 
the John B. Atwood Post V.F.W. 
These honors will be awarded by 
guests, including Dr. Warner,
All students are encouraged to 
attend this affair. Last year Dr. 
Warner commented on the poor*' 
turnout by the student body. Let’s 
not give him a bad impression 
again this year. Remember the 
President’s Review, May 24, at 
11:30 a.m. in the Tech Bowl.
tityZRPrCDR Dr
i*SIj special *ffer available ONLi te c*llegi 
»Uxfenti, leewftr member«, and gallagt librari«.
from our University Shop 
COOL, COLORFUL SPORTWEAR 
for the younger man, in sizes 35 to 42
(shown) Odd Jacket of Dacron® foly ester 
and cotton in muted plaids, $35
Odd Jackets in Dacron^-and- flax, $37.50; 
in oxford weave A met® triacetate and 
cotton, $30; in striped cotton seersucker, $25; 
in lightweight Dacron^-and-wprsted, $45 ; 
in hand-woven cotton India Madras plaids, $35
Odd Trousers in Dacron^-and-worsted 
tropical, $20; in Dacron^-and-cotton 
poplin, $ 12.50; in khaki or white chino, $10
Bermuda Length Shorts in cotton India \
Madras plaids, $12.50; in Dacron*-and-cotton 
poplin, $11.50
fSTAtUSHCO 1*1«
ME54—NBOR528WDS
lim'd Furnishings, ffats tf f hoe«
600 SMITHFIELD AVE., COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • CH1CACO • LOS ANCELES • SAN FRANCISCO
J
o

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 23, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 9
ACTIVATED CHARCOAL 
INNER FILTER
PURE WHITE 
OUTER FILTER
Internal Socialism Grows in U. S.— 
Indifference Endangers Country
By O. W. POWELL,
Des Moines, Iowa 
President, National Association of 
Real Estate Boards
If there is any significant peril 
in the future course of this coun­
try, it is to be found in the 
shackles of this country, it is to 
be found in the corruption of po­
litical freedom and the burgeon­
ing of the socialized state.
I have no substantial concern 
over the ebb and flow of the econ- 
nomic tides. I know that in a 
free economy there must be times 
of plenty and times of want, pe­
riods of prosperity and periods of 
privation. In 1932 we saw busi­
ness go down into the economic 
valley of the shadow of death only 
to come out again with new and 
greater vigor. And I have seen it 
falter in some measures of distress 
a half dozen times in the four 
decades of my commercial life. 
But, may I say in passing, I never 
saw any economic trouble not 
cured by salesmanship, ingenuity, 
imagination, inspiration—the fuel 
which powers the whole economic 
machine.
I \£ould not deny to a younger 
generation the privilege of mak 
ing its own mistakes.
Yet, I ask myself, do I have the 
right to fasten on to the charging 
chariot of another generation the 
burden of a 300 or 400 billion dol­
lar national debt?
Do I have the right to enfold 
the political economy of that gen­
eration in a straight jacket of con­
trols, restraints and regulations?
Do I have the right to shadow 
their lives with the clouds of fear 
and ihe fog of futility?
Do I have the right to lay at 
their door-step the trials and 
travails of all the world from the 
jungles of Africa to the ice lands 
of Mongolia?
Let us look, not as sociologists, 
or research scientists or political 
economists or statisticians—they 
can be wrong, too—let us look as 
plain people at the intangibles that 
affect the environment and the fu­
ture of this country—very real in-
S. GREEN
Eii yyhDrBrD •irAD.RPaA'ss? camrf
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-tlM
BUSHED?
STAY
AWAKE
TAKE
ALERTNESS
CAPSULES
Combat fatigue almost im­
mediately. Keeps you alert 
and full of pep for hour after 
hour, after hour.
Continuous Action Capsules, 
Completely safe 
Non-habit forming 
NO PRESCRIPTION NEEDED
tangibles which are grown out of 
the expanding trend toward social­
ization of the political state on the 
one hand and the quest for person­
nel power on the other.
Socialism Upon Us 
Partly by indifference — partly 
by neglect — partly by self-indul- 
gence — we have let the shrewd 
and devious and alert protagonists 
of the socialized state creep up 
upon us and almost surround us. 
Let us recognize that a socialized 
state is a socialized state—whether 
you call it by the name of com­
munism, socialism or disguise it 
by catch phrases designed to have 
popular appeal.
No place is the issue between 
the free play of rpivate enterprise 
and state control so clearly joined 
as it is in the area of public hous­
ing.
Here we have a great gargan- 
tuun economic Frankenstein cre­
ated by the people themselves, 
feeding upon tax exemption, tax 
subsidy and tax avoidance—acting 
to destroy communities, miscegen- 
ate races, regiment society, per­
petuate poverty and to thwart en­
terprise.
This social misfit has been 
foisted upon the public in a va­
riety of guises. Originally, as a 
project in “make work”—later as 
a project to relieve a war-induced 
housing shortage—later as a proj­
ect to rebuild slums and now— 
frankly—as a project in social reg­
imentation.
The public housing proponent! 
know no limits. They would reach 
into the smallest hamlet as well as 
the largest city and into every 
class of the residential economy— 
into every economic stratum. Un­
til we have restricted and re­
strained this wanton abuse of 
every principle of American tradi­
tion, we will have failed in our 
duty to posterity—our duty to 
society.
Not too far from the institution 
of public housing is the program 
of “Urban Redevelopment,” which 
appears in far too many cases to 
be more closely associated with 
urban destruction. Under its ban­
ner we have carried forward a 
program of spot reclamation using 
the bulldozer and the wrecker’s 
ball—destroying in many cases 
satisfactory housing—and destroy­
ing, frequently, establishing pat­
terns of community life to the dis­
tress of the people who have made 
their home in the areas affected.
Too often the effect of these 
projects has been to relocate slums 
rather than eradicate them, and in 
our big cities new areas of deteri­
oration have followed just as fast 
as the old areas have been re­
moved—if not faster.
Surely it is time now for an­
other long look at this business of 
urban rebuilding under the guid­
ance and the dictates of a federal 
bureaucracy. It is time to put the 
burden of cost as well as the re­
sponsibility of control back upon 
the communities.
Real Estate Taxes
The burden of real estate tax is, 
of course, one that we shall always 
have with us and it is a burden 
which is to be accepted by the 
property owner as a price to be 
paid for orderly government. But 
such acceptance does not imply 
that that burden shall be permitted 
to become so onerous that it de­
stroys both the incentive and the 
ability to own property.
Too often extravagance, waste, 
luxury and graft have been added 
on to the cost of municipal serv­
ices.
To often the administration of 
welfare is viewed in terms of 
political expediency rather than 
the relief of justifiable needs.
Too often has the cost of edu­
cation been expanded to include 
frills and foibles rather than the 
fundamentals of learning.
Too often have we lost sight of 
the necessity for balance between 
the need for social services and 
the ability to provide them.
Perhaps if I were discreet rather 
than candid, I would not talk very 
much about the mounting menace 
of the thing we call “Forced Hous­
ing.” And yet I would tell you 
that all around the nation a vi­
cious and unrelenting campaign is 
being carried on to provide by leg­
islation and by executive decree 
and enforce by punitive action a 
rule that a man cannot sell or rent 
his house to a person or persons of 
his own choice.
Here is perversion of the tradi­
tional constitutional rights of the 
American citizen in its most vi­
cious form.
Here are the seeds of the break­
down of a free America. Take 
away the rights of property own­
ership and human rights become a 
relic of another age. Here is our 
greatest challenge.
Let us give unto Caesar all the 
things which are properly his and 
keep for free men the legacy ol 
their birthright. Let us get the 
federal government out of the 
housing business, out of the mort­
gage business, out of the school 
business.
Let us quit perverting the FHA 
into fields of social welfare and 
old age benefits. Let FHA do the 
job it did so well for so many years 
—just simply insure mortgage 
credit.
These are the things that make 
your blood run both hot and coid
If America faults, if Amer*:a 
denies to its sons their freedom 
and independence, these are a-nd 
shall be our faults. Let us, Amvr- 
icans, do something about it.
Rush Policy
[Continued from Page 3] 
Friday—two 2-hour final par­
ties
Bids will be issued the following 
Monday.
3. Strict silence will be observed 
during the dormitory quiet hours 
during the week of formal rush, 
and from the end of the formal 
parties until bids are issued. 
Rushees and actives may not eat 
together during formal rush.
'Tareyton's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!"
Slugging Junius (Pretty Boy) Cassius takes off the brass 
knucks to enjoy his favorite smoke.
Says Pretty Boy, “Ecce Tareyton, one filter cigarette that 
really delivers de gustibus. Try Tareytons. Next time you 
buy cigarettes, take a couple of packs vobiscum.”
DUAL FILTEReNrytFoa
rf JtC¿¿nvueon iX&cer&yMy— <%&oetr it our mMUnom< G 4 r Cfc

---------------------------------------------------

, and 
team
Ki JSm mmmm! Enjoy the Best
Pi of ¡NEW YORK I(
ECHLHGYCwiit hw 
I CHGMHaxwSit 
¦ CHLuELYELxit ¦
Page 10 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 23. 1962
<yQ Golf Swings Into Win Streak; 
Sinks Three Games In A Row
Jim Sharkey’s second try for school high jump record at 6’1”.
With three victories last week, 
the Tech golf team ran its record 
to 6-1. After winning their first 
three matches, they lost one to 
Westminster, but bounced right 
back to defeat Geneva, Grove 
City, and Saint Francis in their 
next three matches.
Geneva was a tough foe, and the 
Tartains just squeezed by them 
to achieve a 4-3 win. Recovering 
from the disastrous Westminster 
match, DiRito, Gengery, Barr, 
Kalso registered wins. The 
as a whole improved, and the boys 
scored much better. DiRito had 
an 81, McGill 86, Roberts 84, Gin­
gery 81, Barr 82, and Kelso 82.
The Tartans, improving steadily, 
easily defeated Grove City 5V2- 
IV2.
McGill Vi Mp.eder V2
DiRito 1 Armstrong 0
Roberts 0 Isherwood 1
Gingery 2 Brenneisin 0
Barr 1 
Bratman 1
Walko 0 
Kraemer 0
Buy Your 
Thistle
McGill 1 
DiRito 1 
Roberts Vi 
Gingery 2 
Barr 1 
Kelso 1
Shea 0 Embon 0 
Cimochowski V% 
Grady 0 
Plaia 0 Becker 0
Scoring: for Tech: 
..McGill 9,7 DiRito 81, Roberts 
86, Barr 83, Kelso 86. Gingery 
was medalist once more with a 76.
Scoring for Tech:
McGill 97, DiRito 81, Roberts
86, Barr 83, Bratman 78. Gingery 
was medalist with a fine 76.
Amassing their highest point to­
tal of the year, the Tartans 
swamped Saint Francis QVz-Vz.
Good accommodations for 
young men, groups at $2.60- 
$2.75 single, $4.20-$4.40 
double — Membership includ* 
ed. Cafeteria, laundry, barber 
shop, newsstand, laundromat, 
and tailor in building. Free 
programs. Tours arranged.
WILLIAM SLOANC 
HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
356 West 34th Street 
New York, N. Y. OX. 5-5133
(1 Block from Penn. Sta.)
Track Team Makes Noble Effort— 
Breaks Own Previous Records
It couldn’t have been very much i 
closer! Last Saturday, the West: 
Penn Conference championship 
track meet was held on the Tech 
Field oval, and, as expected, the: 
meet turned into a three way strug­
gle involving Tech, Grove City, and 
Westminster. In the end, it was 
Grove City scoring 65% for a tight 
win over Westminster with 63, and 
Tech with 62. Geneva picked up 
25*2 points and Waynesburg had 
7. while both St. Vincent and St. 
Francis were shut-out.
Considering that the meet was 
held on a track soaked from an 
early afternoon downpour, the 
performances were very good. Two I 
conference records were broken, 
and a number of others were ap­
proached. Sammy Williams of 
Westminster, one of the best dis­
tance runners in the area, won 
th two-mile in 10:00.3 to break 
the old record of 10:01. Bernard, 
of Grove City, went 21' in the 
broad jump to top the old record 
by 1 Vi".
Tech, making its last appearance 
in a West Penn Conference meet, 
put on its best showing of the year 
missing the title by only 3 *-4 
point. It was an all-out team 
effort that enabled the Tartans to 
finish the season in style.
Dennis Gary put on the best in- j 
dividual show of the meet. Gary, 
Tech's junior sprint sensation, 
cracked a three year jinx and fin- ! 
ally beat Smover of Grove City 
in the 100, with a time of 10.2. j 
Then, as expected, he romped 
home an easy winner in the 220 
to remain unbeaten this year, j 
Though a MVP trophy wasn’t ‘ 
awarded, Gary was without a j 
doubt the only possible claimant j 
to such an award.
Jim Sharkey, the only senior on j 
Tech’s squad, closed out his college | 
career with a victory in the high-! 
jump as he cleared the bar at 
61". Sharkey showed excellent] 
form and competitive spirit, and 
the win couldn’t have gone to a , 
better man.
Andy Niedra, running with ma­
chine-like precision, gave an exhi- I 
bition of his tremendous stamina 
In taking second in the 440 and i 
third in the 880. Niedra was bare- I 
ly edged in the 440, being nipped ; 
by one tenth of a second in one of j
the meet’s best races. With barely 
half an hour’s rest, Andy came 
back in the 880 to again be nipped 
by a yard for second place.
CIT’s freshman broad-jumper, 
Bob Diskin, took a second in the 
event, missing first by 1%". With 
three years ahead of him, great 
things are expected of Diskin.
Kent McClean, improving tre­
mendously since the start of the 
year, came on strong to take a 
j second in the 220 low-hurdles and 
I a third in the 120 highs. McClean, 
a junior, is a man to watch next 
year as a real challenger to the 
hurdles records.
Mike Campbell, the minute dis­
tance man, gave his best showing 
in the two-hile, taking a second 
with 10:12. A small man among 
the giants of the distance events, 
Mike ran a good race in finishing
behind the record-setting Sam 
Williams.
Hank Werronen provided two 
pleasant surprises for Tech. Wer­
ronen took a second in the discus, j 
and came away fourth in the 220 
to add 6 points to CIT’s total.
Tony Williams copped a third 
in the pole-vault and added a fifth 
in the high-jump to complete a 
good day’s work, while shot-putter 
Jon Borofsky was edged out of a 
first place by 1".
With his pulled muscle still un- ! 
healed, Rick Rogers, running more 
on courage than anything else, j 
| managed to take a fourth in the j 
220 lows. Tom Bednarz ran a good I 
two-mile enroute to a fourth place, 
and set a personal low along the ’ 
way. Tom Terpack, with his anklet 
fully healed at last, took a fifth in : 
[continued on page 11] i
It’s greasy, by George! But Vitalis with V-7 
keeps your hair neat all day without grease.
Naturally. V-7® is the greaseless gr**ming disc*very. Vitalis® 
with V 7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, 
keeps y*ur hair neat all day with*ut grease. Try it t*day!
the fourth dimension: TIME
...still a mysteri*us c*ncept t* science. Time is *nly an idea, 
an abstracti*n ... an area *f shad*w, speculati*n—and surprise.
MAN WAS CREATED AFTER 11:59...if all time since the 
earth's creati*n were c*ndensed int* a 24-h*ur day, the 
"Age *f Man” w*uldn’t start till 2 sec*nds bef*re midnight!* 
Even the din*saurs w*uldn't appear until 11 p.m.
TIME TO GO ASHORE...for the 
grunion, a California fish, is highest 
tide of April, May or June. It rides 
the surf to the beach, digs a hole, 
deposits eggs and sperm. New gener­
ations develop without fear of being 
washed away until next highest tide, 
a full month later.
Cieat*f *f the W*rld’s First Electric Watch
ACCURACY of Hamilton 
watches depends on mi­
croscopic precision. For 
instance, an important 
screw in a Hamilton is 
.032" long, weighs 16 millionths of an 
ounce, antfhas 254 threads per inch.
Two products of such precision are 
illustrated below. A Hamilton is one 
of the few really fine possessions that 
will last for a lifetime. See one on your 
wrist. The Hamilton Watch Company^ 
Lancaster, Pa.
Mi 
i41

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. May 23, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Paae 11
Team Unites For Last Race
fcontinued from page 10] 
440. Joe Thomas added to the 
Tech hurdlers’ fine show with a 
fifth in the 120 highs.
The most exciting race of the 
meet was the mile relay. Tech, 
Geneva, Grove City, and Westmin­
ster were all figured to be fairly 
evenly rated, and tight competi­
tion was expected. Andy Niedra, 
slightly tired from the 440 and 
880, ran the first leg for Tech. 
^oming into the exchange zone, 
Niedra was two yards behind Po- 
holsky of Geneva, who had been 
saved especially for the relay, run­
ning his first race of the day. 
Niedra handed off to Tom Terpack, 
who ran the first 330 yards of the 
second lap about three yards be­
hind the Geneva man. With 100 
yards of the second lap left, how­
ever, Terpack called upon an un­
expected supply of reserve energy 
? begin a strong kick. Passing the 
Geneva man on the turn, Terpack 
steadily gained ground until, at 
the exchange zone, he had opened 
up a 10 yard lead. Hank Werronen 
then took the baton for the third 
leg. Challenged several times along 
the far straightway, Werronen 
proved himself more than capable 
and brought the baton into the 
exchange zone still maintaining 
the lead. At this point, Dennis 
Upary took the baton into the last 
ieg, fighting against Kalivoda of 
Geneva to keep the lead. Gary 
himself was challenged for the 
lead in the last 100 yards, but the 
star sprinter was never fazed as 
he crossed the finish line, five 
yards ahead of Geneva. The time 
was a fine 3:29.6, exactly one sec­
ond away from the school record. 
Grove City, having a good team 
composed of York, Austin, Smoyer, 
fcnd Shockey, could not cope with 
the Tartans, and had to settle for 
third, with Westminster taking 
fourth.
Earlier in the week, Tech step­
ped a little out of its class in meet­
ing West Virginia University, but 
still managed to put up a good try 
in losing, 89-42. Dennis Gary was 
undefeated in the 220 for 11 meets, 
as was the mile relay team, taking 
11 straight.
^ CIT—Carnegie Tech, GC—Grove City, 
we — Westminster, G — Geneva, Wa — 
Waynesburg, SF—St. Francis, SV—St. Vincent.
Mile — Won by Williams (We); 2.
Pekich (We); 3. Nottleman (GC); 4.
Wason (G); 5. Hedley (Wa) T--4:29.3 
440 — Won by Stewart (We); 2. Niedra
<CIT); 3. York (GC); 4. Kalivoda (G);
5. Terpack (CIT). T—51.2 
100 — Won by Gary (CIT); 2. Smoyer
(GC); 3. Hemphill (G); 4. Laraon (We);
5. Reynolds (GC). T—10.2 >20 HH — Won by Thompson (We); 2. 
Washington (Wa); 3. McClean (CIT); 
*• Guba (G); L. Thomas (CIT). T—15.7
880 — Won by Shockey (GC); 2. Stewart 
(We); 3. Niedra (CIT); 4. Pekich (We); 
5. Austin (GC). T—1:58.4 
High Jump — Won by Sharkey (CIT); 
2. Tie, Gabriel (We) and Vos (G); 4. 
Cave (GC); 5. Williams (CIT) Height —6 ft., 1 irt.
Shot Put — Won by Marovich (GC); 2. 
Borofsky (CIT); 3. Peaspanen (We); 
4. Krebs (GC); 5. Owen (G) Distance —-11 ft., 63/iin.
Pole Vault — Tie for first. Horn (We) 
and B, O’Halek (GC); 3. Williams
(CIT); 4. J. O'Halek (We) Height- 
12 ft.
220 — Won by Gary (CIT); 2. Smoyer 
(GC); 3. Reynolds (GC), 4. Werronen 
(CIT); 5. Fullerton (Wa). T—22.8 
Javelin — Won by Hoffman (GC); 2. 
Knowles (We); 3. Young (G); 4. Arm­
strong (We); 5. Kelley (Wa) Dis­
tance—173 ft., 9*/2 in.
220 LH — Won by Armstrong (We); 2, 
McClean (CIT); 3. Thompson (We); 4. 
Rogers (CIT); 5. Monahan (G). T—
26.5
Two Miles — Won by Williams (We); 2. 
Campbell (CIT); 3. Kozlowski (GC); 
4. Bednarz (CIT); 5. Vos. T—10:00.3 
Broad Jump — Won by Bernard (GC);
2. Diskin (CIT); 3. Hoffman (GC);
Smith (We); 5. Brown (We) Dis­
tance 21 ft., % in.
Discus — Won by Marovich (GC); 2. 
Werronen (CIT); 3. Maxwell (G);
Alexander (GC); 5. Peaspanen (We). 
Distance—124 ft. 8 in.
Mile Relay — Won by CIT (Niedra, Terpack, Werronen, Gary); 2. Geneva;
3. Grove City; 4. Westminster. T—
3:29.6
Grove City ..............................65 ViWestminster ..................................63
Carnegie Tech ..............................62
Geneva .........................................25 Vi
Waynesburg .................................. 7
St. Francis .........................................0
St. Vincent .................................... 0
Alumni Lectures
[Continued from page 6] 
tegies for Learning,” will be given 
by Herbert A. Simon, professor of 
administration and associate dean 
of the Graduate School of Indus­
trial Administration. Professor 
Simor, will describe methods for 
improving and exercising one’s 
capacity for learning.
Three members of Tech’s his­
tory department will conduct a 
symposium entitled “U.S. Foreign 
Policy — June, 1962.” Jacob E. 
Cooke, professor and heau of the 
history department; Roy W. Curry 
and Ludwig F. Schaefer, assistant 
professors of history, will present 
different points of view on current 
international problems.
In the liberal arts field, Robert 
C. Slack, associate professor of 
English and humanities and head 
of the department of humanities, 
will lecture on ‘‘Advanced Place­
ment — College Credits in High 
School.” Professor Slack will de­
scribe a co-operative program be­
tween Carnegie Tech and local 
secondary schools.
Charles L. McCabe, professor 
and head of the department of 
metallurgical engineering, will 
talk on “Science vs. Engineering?” 
Professor McCabe will point out 
important differences between 
these traditional partners.
Reflections On The WPC Meet 
Show Team And Audience Spirit
Senior Jim Sharkey and junior 
Dennis Gary are to be congratu­
lated for their fine performan­
ces in WPC meet, along with the 
mile relay team of Neidra Ter­
pack, Werronoen, and Gary . . . 
Tough competition undoubtedly 
bring out better physical per­
formances, but how about men­
tal? It took courage for that high 
hurdler who went sprawling af­
ter hitting a hurdle to get up 
and finish the race . . . Despite 
the rain and poor conditions on 
the track, a track record was set. 
The slow track no doubt slowed 
up dash men though . . . May­
be Gary would have knocked .3 
seconds off his excellent time of 
10.2 and beaten the meet record 
of 10.0 flat in the hundred on a 
fast track. . . Smoyer of Grove 
City who tied the record in the 
100 last year was a stride behind 
Dennis this year. . . Other double 
winner in the track meet besides 
Gary was a sophomore from West­
minster named Sammy Williams, 
who set a new two mile record 
of 10.00.3 and came within 1.9 
seconds of tieing the record in 
the mile . . . Andy Comer didn’t 
move from beneath his shelter 
during the entire meet . . . The 
entire mile relay team, which 
won easily, will be back next 
year: one junior, two sophomores, 
and a freshman. The team will 
be the odds on favorite to low­
er the existing record of 3:28.3 ... 
A Phi O deserves sincere thanks 
from everyone concerned with 
the meet. Without them to ex­
pedite matters, the meet would 
either have been more disorgan­
ized or more expensive . . . It’s 
amazing how so much water can 
look like so little when standing 
on the track . . . The way things 
looked at 1 o’clock, the swim­
ming team would have won the 
meet hftnds down . . . Did you
ever notice how many spectators 
try to aid a high-jumper over the 
bar by kicking their own legs up 
as if they were going over? . . . 
Wait ’til next year. The only big 
loss is ace high jumper Jim Shar­
key.
CO-EDS OUT-ARCH 
CHATHAM GIRLS
In an intercollegiate archery 
tournament staged on the Tech 
grounds overlooking the tennis 
courts, the Tech co-ed Robin 
Hoods outshot their counterparts 
from Chatham 1204 to 1048, on 
Tuesday, May 15. Tech swept the 
three top places in individual 
competition with Lois Cassen high 
at 318, followed by Charlotte Sha­
piro and Diane Anchel. Mary Fa- 
ma of Chatham took fourth with 
a 239. Each girl shot 4 ends, con­
sisting of six arrows per end, at 
30 yards and 4 ends at 20 yards. 
In a return match shot at Chat­
ham Thursday, May 17, Tech was 
again victorious. Details of this 
match were unavailable at press 
time.
In the competition for the cov­
eted Tech intramural All Sports 
Trophy, the powerful Grad Ea­
gles are making shambles of the 
rest of the field. Point standings, 
updated to include all sports ex­
cept handball, softball, golf, and 
Co-rec badminton, give the Grads 
a total of 51 points, double that 
of their nearest competitor. Vul- 
cans are a distant second with 
24 points, and heading the fra-
Football
Schedule
Carnegie Tech’s football team 
will open the 1962 season against 
Ohio Wesleyan in a home game, 
according to the football schedule 
recently released by the Tech Ath­
letic Board. Wesleyan replaces 
Oberlin, and Dennison University 
Replaces the University of Roches­
ter in the only other deviation 
from the 1961 schedule. Eight 
games are scheduled to be played, 
to be split evenly between home 
and away games. The schedule
for 1962
Ohio Wesleyan H
Dennison University A
Waynesburg H
Grove City A
Franklin and Marshall A
St. Vincent H
Washington and Jefferson A
ternity field is Sigma Nu with 22 
points. The Grads, having sewed 
in practically all sports and par­
ticularly heavily in the major 
ones, are a sure winner of the 
trophy. Sigma Nu has an outside 
chance of slipping past the Vul- 
cans into second place, depending 
on their showing in softball. Fur­
ther back in the field is BTP 
with 16, TDP with 16, and SAE 
with 13yz.
Westminster H
Grad Eagles Double Runner-Ups 
Score For All Sports Trophy
Dennis Gary anchors mile relay team to a win in WPC track meet.
11& MÂ
(with an All-American Look)
Catalina, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif., Another Fine ijjdvi KaywrRoth Produtt*\
MAL0L0« PENNANT STRIPE in all *ver print *r with stripes at f*cal p*ints. ‘Orange *r blue c*mbinati*ns in sea­w*rthy 100% c*tt*n. Jackets *r trader pants $6.95, trunks $3.95.
High-seas or pool-side, Catalina boldly splashes color on the waterfront scene
In swimwear created In the tradition... American as Apple Pie.
CLIPPER STRIPE pull*ver deck shirt *f luxuri*us c*tt*n knit with t*ne striping *n fr*nt and *A sleeves $7.95. C*tt*n lined Hawaiian trunks $6.95. C*l*rs *f white/ blue, *pewter/tan *r beige/taupe.
SEA LANE b*ld c*l*r stripes knit smartly *f 100% c*tt*n in c*mbinati*na *f •*range, blue *r yell*w. B*tt*m band cardigan Jacket $7.95 at*p Hawaiian length trunks $6.95,
MAL0L0« PORT O' CALL paialey atrip« printed luxuri*us c*tt*n beech shirt $6.95 *ver medium length c*tt*n Hawaiian trunks 
$6.95. C*l*r c*mbinati*ns *f br*wn *r •green t* ctw*ae fr*m.
MAL0L0* MIDSHIPMAN, banded with b*ld trim. In ’white, natural, pewter *r nevy. Windw*rthy lacket *f 100% c*tt*n gab $7.9?. Hawaiian length Lastex c*rd tninka *f acetate, c*tt*n and rubber $8.95 ^
*?HtUTfd Cpjpf

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 12 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 83. 196«
Barry Berkoff swinging.
Warriors51
Vulvan “W”41
SAE “P”42
ATO “A”32
Dunkers24
KS “B”15
Spartans15
CardsWL
Met Grads*50
SN “A ’22
EE Grads23
Finks23
DU12
PKA13
* Denotes teams that have clinched
first.
YankeeWL.
Grad Eagles31
BTP “A”31
BSR21
PKT13
TX13
Sial01
MINORS
GiantWL
ATO “B”*61
SN “B”43
Whales43
SAE ”G”34
TDP “P"23
BTP “G”23
ATO “C”24
BSR “J”13
* * *
Races for first and second place 
in Intramural Softball finally add­
ed spice to league play during the 
period of May 13 through May 18. 
Looking like sure participants in 
the playoffs, to be held during the 
week of May 21-25, are the Tau 
Delt Blue team of the Braves 
league, the Warriors of the Pirates 
league, and the Met Grads of the 
Cards league.
In a single game played Sunday, 
May 13, the Dukes of the Braves 
league defeated the powerful KS , 
“A” in an upset, 9-8. The Dukes j 
had 9 runs on 9 hits, and were led! 
in the hitting department by 
Frank Rizzo, J. Smith, and Har­
rison who were each 2-4 at the 
plate. KS got 9 hits off winner 
Szescoskay, 3 of these by Cook.
Monday, May 14
A full slate of 6 games was 
played on Monday, 14. In them, 
KS “A” defeated DTD, 1517, SN 
“A” pounded PKA 18-11, Grad l 
Eagles showed fine form in a 14-7 
win over strong BSR, SN “B” 
whipped the TDP “P” ’s 12-5, and 
the Warriors handed previously 
touted ATO “A” an 11-4 setback. 
For KS “A”, a home run by win­
ning pitcher Zemo set the pace as 
KS laced loser Craig for 15 hits. 
DTD garnered 8 hits, half of them 
shared by Needham and Baier. A 
six run first inning helped the 
cause as SN “A” defeated PKA. 
15 hits and many walks given to j 
SN allowed winning pitcher Hen- | 
drix to outduel loser Spindler in 
the final tally. PKA tallied their 
11 runs on 8 hits. Homers by Grad 
Eagles Schwisher, Patz, and Hig­
gins were the blasts as the Grads 
tallied 14 runs on 15 hits against 
BSR. The homer hitters of the 
Grads also accounted for 9 of the 
hits against loser Philofsky. For 
BSR. all six hits were singles, 
but coupled with walks and er­
rors, they totaled 7 runs. Winning 
pitcher was Schwisher. Carl Mi-
CLASSIFIED
PROFESSIONAL TYPING — HA. 
1-1456. On electric typewriter, 
reasonable rates. Themes, Theses, 
Manuscripts, Term Papers, Appli- 
:ations, etc. Punctuation and 
spelling errors corrected.
TYPING DONE AT HOME. Rates , 
per page or per thousand words, i 
Call Margie EL. 1-1764.
SUMMER RENTAL. Nice furnish­
ed apartment for two, three or 
four students. Phone JA. 1-2497 
after 2:00 p.m.
WILL TRADE a girl’s white 
blazer with WHITE buttons for a 
similar blazer with GOLD buttons 
taken from the Sigma Nu house 
after the Weavers. Mike Allen, 
MU. 2-9076.
DESTINATION DENEVR — Will­
ing to share expenses and driving 
with anyone going my way. Mike 
Allen, MU 2-9076.
* * *
chael pitched 5 hit ball and hom- 
ered in support of his own cause 
to pace SN “B” ’s win over TDP 
“P‘\ SN pounded 15 hits against 
loser Berliner, who had a triple 
for Tau Delt’s only big bomb. 
Every playing Warrior had a hit 
as they raked ATO’s pitcher Ciar- 
mella for 11 singles. Winner Kelso 
worked with a comfortable 11-4 
margin as he held ATO to 4 runs 
on 7 hits. Olsen and Ciarmella 
shared 5 of the seven.
Tuesday, May 15 
Another full slate of games in­
cluding two forfeits were played 
on Tuesday, May 15. The Corns 
of the Braves whipped helpless 
WRCT 16-1, TDP “Blue” defeated 
DTD 20-13 in a real pitchers duel, 
Spartans beat the Dunkers 11-6, 
ATO “C” edged BTP “G” 18-15, 
Vulvan “G” forfeited to the Dukes 
7-0, and SAE “G” forfeited to BSR 
“J"’ 7-0. For the Corns, winning 
pitcher Berg had no sweat as he 
was backed up with a 17 hit at­
tack. WRCT got 7 hits, all by dif­
ferent men. Losing pitcher Fer- 
gerson was out-publicized. The hit­
ting attack of TDP “Blue” was led 
by Farrington who was 4-5 at the 
plate including a homer. 14 other 
hits off loser Craig, plus an 8 run 
second inning, provided the mar­
gin of victory. Winning pitcher 
Bernstein was touched for 16 hits, 
but was tough in the clutch. Mow- 
ry of the Dunkers absorbed a 13 
hit attack as his team lost to the 
Spartons, 11-6. Kalogeras and 
Avion each had two hits for the 
winners. Hull of the Dunkers had 
two hits, including a homer, catch­
er Brianco was 4-4 with four 
singles, and Tepper had 3-4, with 
two doubles and a single. Winner 
Roberts of ATO “C” had an eight 
run first inning and 16 hits behind 
him as he pitched his team over 
BTP “G”. Lynch of Beta had a 
homer, one of 14 hits rapped by 
his mates.
Wednesday, May 16 
Six games were played on 
Wednesday the 16th, with the only 
one involving the leading team 
being the victory of the Dukes 
over the Corns to the tune of 14-6. 
Other games had the EE Grads 
over the Finks 11-7, TX edging 
PKT 12-11, BTP “G” over SAE 
“G” 16-12, Whales bombing BSR 
“J” 22-8, and KS “B” beating the 
Spartans in a football score, 24-16.
* * *
The Dukes started with a 7 run 
first inning and coasted in on the 
8 hit pitching of Szescoskay. Loser 
Benz gave up 5 hits including 3 
to centerfielder Smith. Two hom­
ers by Schmitz, and triples by 
Riben and English were the big 
blows as the EE Grads eased by 
the Finks. All told, the Grads 
jumped on losing pitcher Shannon 
for eleven hits. Means and Giar- 
dina of the Finks had homers, but 
their efforts were for naught. TX 
picked up one run in the last in­
ning and slipped by PKT. Key to 
the victory was a 9 run second 
and a 16 hit attack that featured 
a homer by Rich Blacker. Finner 
Epner was clipped for a three run 
homer by Lang and a solo blast 
by Pelligrino. Loser was Magee. 
BTP “G” ’s victory over SAE “G” 
was due principally to errors and 
walks donated by SAE. Both teams 
had 17 hits, but miscues proved 
costly. Losing pitcher Skalka must 
have felt unsupported as his mates 
came up with only four hits in 
BSR “J” ’s loss to the Whales, 
22-8. The winning Whales pound­
ed out 17 hits for their victory. 
Getting 12 runs in the third inning 
to set a new season mark for most 
runs in one inning, KS “B” whip­
ped the Spartans 24-16. Winner 
Snyder served up gopher balls to 
Giardina, Love, and Kalogeras.
Thursday, May 17 
In games played on Thursday, 
May 17, BTP “A” ran over the 
Grad Eagles 10-7 to knot the 
Yankee league race, SAE “P” 
racked KS “B” 15-4, Dunkers
pulled an upset and repulsed the 
Warriors 20-16, ATO “B” beat 
TDP “P” 13-6, SN “B” slipped by 
ATO “C” 12-10, and DTD out- 
broadcasted WRCT 13-4. For Beta, 
Collins, Crosko, Hyde, and Quain 
shared 10 of their 11 hits. The 
Grads touched winner Quain for 
7 hits, including doubles by Swish­
er and Fox. SAE “P” iced their 
verdict over KS “B” with six in 
the second and eight in the fourth. 
Loser Snyder issued 7 walks to 
aid his downfall. KS scored four 
in the first and were held at bay 
the rest of the time. Costanza 
banged a homer for the winners, 
and was aided in the attack by 
Bianco, Higgenbotham, and Tep­
per. Winner Higgenbotham gave 
up 16 hits, including a homer to 
Fink, but hung on to take the ver-
BEGIN NOW TO ORGANIZE TEAMS FOR INTRA­
MURAL FOOTBALL WHICH WILL BEGIN ABOUT 
THE FIRST WEEK IN OCTOBER. BE THE FIRST 
ORGANIZATION TO WIN A TROPHi IN THE FALL. 
IF iOU HAVE ANi QUESTIONS ON HOW TO SET 
UP A TEAM, CONTACT:
GENE BOiER — MA. 1-2600 — EXT. 412 
BRUCE KISSEL — MU. 2-6136 
AL KULLEN — MU. 1-6550
Last Minute Suspense In I.M. Softball 
As Teams Battle Over First and Second Places
diet. Marty Poad triumphed in the 
ATO “B” win over TDP “P” with 
the aid of homers by Blackwood, 
Dowd, and himself. He was also 
touched for homers by Berliner 
and Devine of Tau Delt. The ATO 
“C” team wasn’t as successful as 
its “B” counterpart as they were 
edged by SN “B” in the last in­
ning. Carl Michael won another 
as he was backed up by 12 hits. 
WRCT continued t h ei r losing 
streak as they were demolished by 
DTD. Loser Fergerson was help­
less to stop the onslaught as Dave 
Scott, Baier, and Wendlandt hom- 
ered to top an 11 hit barrage. 
WRCT salvaged a little self re­
spect with homers by Fergerson 
and Sponsler, charitably given up 
by winning pitcher Craig.
IM Softball League standings 
through May 17:
MAJORS
BravesWL
TDP “Blue”40
KS “A”41
Dukes41
DTD23
Corns24
Vulcan “G”24
WRCT05
PiratesWL
FOR BRAVE MEN ONLi
Every year a stout band of brave young men march off 
to the jeweler to buy the engagement ring—unaided. We 
at Artcarved, makers of the world’s most treasured rings 
for over a hundred years, salute them.
More to the point, we help them. Here’s how.
IN STYLES. Styles in engagement rings change over the 
years. To keep you abreast of the best, Artcarved quizzes 
College Queens (like the one above) from all over the 
country. You’ll find their choices at your Artcarved jeweler. 
IN VALUE. Unless you’re majoring in diamonds, your 
chances of discerning the true value of any particular dia* 
mond are small indeed. To safeguard your investment, 
Artcarved gives you a written guarantee of your diamond’s 
true value, a guarantee that is respected and recognized by 
leading jewelers everywhere, and backed by a 110-year 
reputation for quality.
So, go on and buy the ring yourself. She’ll love you for 
it—especially when it’s an Artcarved.
:GEOYe: Ee: W•::GeJ WGeJC
Tw* *f the 
l*vely designs 
ch*sen by America’s 
C*llege Queens. 
Fr*m $100.
Your authorized Artcarved Jeweler
John M. Roberts & Son, Co.
Pittsburgh • Mt. Lebanon 
East Hills Shopping Center
