II Irïï^ A TVT*A IV TVolume 80, Number 12 I I Carnegie-Mellon University
'The next person might not get out alive' victim warns
Carnival theme chosen
“New York City” has been chosen as 
the theme for the 1980 Spring Carnival. 
The theme was chosen by a majority vote 
at a Midway meeting Wednesday night. 
Each organization ding to participate 
in this year’s carniv was permitted one 
vote. “New York City” just edged out 
“The Wild West,” with “The Roaring 
Twenties“ coming in third.
This year the Carnival Committee is 
trying to create an atmosphere for the 
entire carnival, not just along the Midway. 
Entertainment and events will also be 
coordinated with the “New York City” 
theme.
“We want people who come to Spring
Carnival to feel like part of New York from 
the moment they walk onto campus, not 
just when they're playing games at the 
booths. With the help of the booth chair­
man, we can create a street in Manhatten 
along Midway and work from there,” said 
Elaine Smith, Midway Chairman.
The real work for Carnival, however, 
hasn’t started yet. Anyone interested in 
doing anything to help is encouraged to 
leave their name, phone number, and area 
of interest in the Spring Carnival box 
behind the Skibo Information Desk. Dave 
Mongeau, Carnival Chairman, is especially 
interested in finding people to help with 
finance or design of the entranceway.
- efficient 
problems
indicative of the conditions in Doherty Hall's basement are propped doors, decaying ceiling paint, a door that can be forced open, and a missing exit sign.
by Doug Kirsop
“I just hope that this (sense of caution 
and concern for safety) doesn’t wear off 
after awhile,” said the victim of last week’s 
attempted rape in the sub-basement of 
Doherty Hall.
. < : In a confidential inter-
'• r view with the TARTAN, 
she also expressed several 
Analysis other concerns. ‘They’re 
just asking for it” is her 
feeling about students who ignore simple 
safety measures, and, for example, prop 
doors open. She and other students who 
work in the art studios in the Doherty 
Hall sub-basements told the TARTAN 
that it was fairly common practice for stu­
dents to put a block in the exterior doors 
so that they can park in the parking lots
walk to the front of Doherty to get into 
the building.
She emphasized the fact that “you just 
can’t fool yourself. Everyone hears about 
it, but they think that it will never happen 
to them. It happened to me, and I was 
lucky. The next person might not get out 
of it alive.”
The Pittsburgh Police Department has 
identified a possible suspect, who could be 
charged with attempted rape resulting from 
the November 30th attack, but CMU Presi­
dent Richard M. Cyert and the detective 
in charge of the case have requested that 
the TARTAN not disclose any further 
details at this time.
Resulting changes
Cyert met with the woman and her par­
ents last week to discuss ways in which fur­
ther problems could be avoided. Two 
immediate improvements were discussed: 
Increased lighting and posting a security 
guard in the area. Over the last week, 
one or more Campus Police officers have 
been assigned strictly to the Doherty sub­
basement area. According to CMU Vice- 
president for Mangement, Richard Van 
Horn, these assignments will continue until 
a security monitor is hired. Campus Po­
lice is currently advertising to find some­
one for this position. The person would 
have a radio for direct communication
by Elliot Ohlberg
The results of the campus-wide referen­
dum to raise the student activities fee are 
tabulated, and reveal a dichotomy in stud­
ent thinking regarding the issue. While 
35.7% favor a $20 per year increase, an 
almost equally significant fraction, 30%, 
favor no increase at all.
The referendum was conducted on Dec­
ember 5, and 23.1% of the students voted, 
9% more than voted in the normal elec­
tions.
At tonight’s student senate meeting, 
6:30 PM in the Wherrett Room, the Rules 
Committee will take the middle road and 
recommend an increase of $10 per year. 
This represents a 33% increase over this 
year’s fee of $30. If Senate approves this 
amount by a simple majority, they will pre­
sent a recommendation the CMU Board of 
Trustees in January, said Senate Chairper­
son Ralph Sherman. Positive action by the 
trustees is expected, and will assure that 
student activities funding will receive a
with Campus Police, and would patrol the 
sub-basements of Doherty, as well as parts 
of Science Hall from late afternoon to late 
evening.
Cyert and Van Horn added that if 
security monitor did not prove to be effec­
tive, other measures would be taken. 
“Limited access to academic buildings, 
although I would rather try not to go that 
route,” was one possibility Cyert discussed. 
This would involve locking buildings 
during the hours they are not in normalcontinued on page 4
boost of almost $50,000 for the 1980-81 
academic year. The total fund will climb to 
approximately $195,000.
Inflation has eroded the quality of 
student activities, which are perceived by 
many as modest compared to similar in­
stitutions. (See the December 4th TARTAN 
editorial.)
Reaction to the referendum results was 
unanimous among the three largest funded 
groups Activities Board, TARTAN, and 
WRCT.
WRCT General Manager Chas Sislen 
said “It’s silly that the fee may only go up 
$ 10. The students don’t realize what they’re 
missing. They will get more out of a $20 
increase in the fee than a $1000 tuition in­
crease.”
John Alexander, Chairman of the Activ­
ities Board (AB), added “The referendum 
was unfair because Senate set levels of in­
crease that were not relevant. Our own sur­
vey showed that we needed more than a 
$20 rise. When I told them the statistics I
PERCENTAGE
35.7
23.9
09.9
29.9continued on page 5
just outside of that jirea, and not have to
INCREASE NUMBER OF VOTES
$20 375 _
$10 251
$5 104
$0 314
Senate to recommend $10 
increase in Activities Fee
The Senior Mechanical Engineers' design project this year was the building of small, fuel 
cars, which were judged early Sunday morning. While a few engineers had last minute 
(top). Art Lofton was able to get his car rolling (bottom).____________________

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate is going to recommend to the Board of 
Trustees a $10 per year per student increase in the Activities 
Fee when we get back from vacation.
Senate conducted a referendum (see story on page one of 
this issue) last Wednesday which gave us four options from 
which to choose. These levels were set by Senate in their 
rush-job effort to construct this referendum. The results 
showed a distinct dichotomy of opinion on this issue: 30% 
voted for no increase, 23% voted for a $70 increase, and 
36% voted for the ",maximum allowable increase " of $20.
Can Senate honestly represent the student body to the 
Trustees in January on this issue, based solely on the results 
of the referendum? No—not by any stretch of the imagi­
nation. If they try to, the students (particularly those who 
voted for the $20 increase) should stop them.
How many people, including the senators, know for what 
or where that increase could be used—dollar for dollar? No 
one from Senate has approached the TARTAN, WRCT, or 
the Activities Board (AB)-the top three funded organi­
zations in terms of budgetary size— to find out what they 
could do with extra funding that could result from an 
increase in the Activities Fee. Any responsible decision­
maker should find out what the needs of those he repre­
sents are, before he decides how to fulfill those needs. For 
the most part, students and the majority of Senate have 
very little knowledge of how the funded organizations 
function, or, in some cases, why they don’t function.
Senate is conducting a campus-wide sample survey in an 
attempt to find out what students think are the most use­
ful and/or popular organizations on campus. This is certain­
ly a noble effort on their part, but it’s basically an invalid 
survey. Most students are completely ignorant of the pro­
portional distribution of their Activities Fee among the var­
ious funded organizations. Students don't know where 
their 30 bucks are going, or how the money is really being 
used.
The leaders of the funded organizations would like to 
have a chance to “educate ” their “consumers” on what they 
could do with an increase in the Activities Fee—dollar for 
dollar. Senate should listen first. And then it should make a 
concerted effort to inform its constituencies about the var­
ious organizations—what they are providing for the stu­
dents, and what they could be providing if they had more 
funds.
The referendum and the survey were hastily prepared 
and carried out. Senate made no attempt at approaching 
the organizations, or the students who run them. Until a 
full-scale effort is made by Senate to gather all the necessary 
information, a decision about the size of an increase in the 
Activitities Fee should not be made or recommended.
White elephants?
The TARTAN staff wishes the CMU community a happy 
holiday, and to prove our sincerity, we're giving the follow­
ing gifts:
To Arnold Weber, ex-CMU Provost: A smile and no kiss 
goodbye (someone even asked the TARTAN to give him a 
reserved seat under the next avalanche in Boulder).
To WRCT: A 40-member audience to match their new 40- 
foot antenna.
To the Brothers of SAE: A shipment of rubber windows.
To jane Fonda and Tom Hayden: A subpoena to appear 
before the University Court for unlawfully distributing 
their propaganda newspaper to unknowing students at 
their lecture here in October.
lo Mr. Banner, Athletic Director: A hamburger and a milk­
shake for Christmas dinner.
To Housing: A half-furnished office in Margaret Morrison.
To the Tartan football team: A big box filled with fair refs, 
good weather, and 10 points.
To the sponsors of “CMU Goes to the Circus”: A busload 
packed to the gills with some of the downs now walking 
around campus. You don’t have to go to the circus, we’l1 
send the circus to you.
To the minister of Vali-Dine, the Director of Food Service, 
john Eichmuller. A continuous notification of his balance
24 hours a day.
To the SARC officers who were “Mad for Plaid” at home­
coming: Placement in a Home for the Insane for Plaid, a 
private psychiatric center in Scotland.
To the TARTAN reporter who asks all those “CMU Talks 
About...” questions of innocent students every week: Bail 
money for the week her featured question is 'What would 
you do if I pulled down my pants and took off my bra?’
My security threatened
Editor:
Last week’s attempted rape 
frightened me very,much; primari­
ly because as a woman, I now feel 
less secure about walking the 
campus at night and using public 
bathrooms. Also, and most im­
portant, is the fact that the near­
rapist managed to get away, the 
fault of our inadequate campus 
security force.
Campus security has proven 
themselves capable of escorting 
people to their homes at night, 
but when it comes to protecting 
students from day to, day and 
evening to evening they are hap­
less incompetents.
Security officers were recently
allowed to carry and use guns. 
This measure, I assume, was ap­
proved by President Cyert to give 
the officers more authority and 
to promote a greater sense of 
security among the students. 
The idea of carrying guns, al­
though initially a good one, 
should however be limited to 
only the most responsible and 
stable officers.
Guns are not toys and should 
only be used in situations where 
extreme force is the only possible 
alternative, such as in the pursuit 
of rapists.
I can only hope that the pro­
per authorities (and supervisors) 
become aware of this dire situ­
ation. Immediate action taken to
rectify this problem would give 
me a great feeling of security, in­
deed.Gail Weisman 
Freshman, CFA
No cold shower for me! 
Editor:
In the midst of all this 
H&SS/CIT conflict, I thought that 
a little levity would lighten up the 
situation considerably. So here’s 
the riddle:
Question: What’s a clear liquid 
with the chemical formula H^O, 
which is about 45 degrees Faren- 
heit?
Answer: The hot water in Mudge, 
of course.
Housing please get your act 
together! Although there may be
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 12 
December 11,1979
News Editor: Features Editor: Entertainment Editors:
Editor in Chief: Jean Pellegrini Publication Manager: Michael Brzustowicz Managing Editors: Neil AdlerBrian Byrnes Business Manager: Karen Stevens Production Manager: Smita Pai Doug Kirsop Lynn Epstein Alan Spero Melody Mazzie
Sports Editor: Perry ColosimoMagazine Editor: Susan Borg Photography Editor: Robert Zusman
News: Beth Arden, Pete Levin, Asst. Editors;Tim Barkwell, Jim Bost.Sue Brillman, Jeanette Bryan, Anne Cesnjk, Linda Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed Frankberry, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet.Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Joshua Melvin, Deb Morgas, Debbie Nir, Elliot Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Yoder, 
Eddie Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis B9II, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy, Chris Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Roger Harris, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David Mills, Sheryl Sarima, Stu Seidman.
Entertainment: Ed Slosky, events editor; Scott Alburger, Kate Bertrand,Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul L. Kravits, Cheryl Goodman, Timothy LeVan, Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler, Gretchen Miller, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir, Scott Schaffer,David Sheward, Ted Smits, Vernon Valentine.
Sports: David Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben Aron, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Frank Pugliano, ScottSchatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production: Ken Kulak, assistant manager; Neil Adler, Michael Brzustowicz, Gretchen Miller, Sue Wilkin, Eddie Zayas. 
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd, Skip Stong.
Art: Tom Hart, Acting Director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein, Tina Klem, Tom Megalis
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Gov­ernment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited Pittsburgh, PA 15206.
TARTAN
Senate Follies

---------------------------------------------------

Midani: 'Is there Life after Fine Arts?'
The following view entitled “Is 
There Life After Fine Arts, ” was 
written by Akram Midani, Dean 
of Fine Arts.
As an educator in the arts, I be­
lieve I must share a concern with 
those who ^re engaged in the pre­
paration of the artists of the fu­
ture, which centers around the 
question of the role played by 
a specialized education in making 
young artists capable of con­
tributing to their professions as 
they presently exist; that is, influ­
ential in the professions’ future 
development. In other words, ra­
ther than becoming the instru­
ments of change.
Such a role expected of Carne­
gie-Mellon University’s architects, 
performing arts and visual artists 
depends on two conditions: 1) the 
ability to seek and find a 
position in the professional world;
2) to have a specialized, yet broad
professional education which will 
help to multiply roles and career 
opportunuties.
The artistic professions in a 
free and open educational system 
are bound to be marred with 
career-related uncertainties. In- 
novator-artists find out soon after 
graduating that they must not on­
ly overcome the established 
professional organizations and 
their deep-seated norms, but must 
also conquer the habits of the pu­
blic which in the first place, were 
the source of normalizing the or­
ganizations. In many areas the 
problem is much more complex: 
Architecture, which can no longer 
be considered a fine art in the tra­
ditional sense, requires from its 
practitioners the knowledge and 
capability to engage in forceful 
dialogues regarding public issues, 
social contexts, in addition to the 
eternal quest for a balanced and
harmonious environment. Al­
though becoming equipped for 
such a dialogue increases the chal­
lenge when searching for a posi­
tion in the architectural profes­
sion, it also increases the oppor­
tunity to succeed in finding and 
keeping such a position.
Another reason for an educa­
tor’s concern is that an education 
which does not direct its energy 
toward the development of a crea­
tive and purposeful citizen, is an 
education without a conscience. 
An education in the fine arts 
cannot accept a world which pro­
vides livelihood through teaching; 
and then negates such a world 
when there is a need to explain to 
the students why they cannot find 
a purposeful postion in the arts by 
relying on the tired myth of so­
ciety’s neglect of the artist. In 
recent years I found myself often 
suggesting to students for a num­
ber of career choices within their 
specialization; and recommending 
to others who have completed or 
are about to complete their under­
graduate education in CFA, to 
consider careers or graduate 
schools which might not, on the 
surface, signify a direct result of 
extension of the students’ artistic 
preparation.
I was recently visited by a for­
mer student from the Department 
of Drama who surprised me by 
saying that after recognizing the 
difficulty in finding a worthwhile 
position in the field of Theatre 
Management, he decided to take 
advantage of the good education 
he recieved at CMU, and pursue 
graduate studies in Accounting. 
He ultimately recieved a Ph.D 
which led him to become a facul­
ty member in a good business 
school.
Among young artists there is a
views
tendency, however , to treat the 
developing self with neglect. Ac­
cepting menial jobs while waiting 
for a breakthrough, the self be­
comes a lottery ticket in a cruel 
game of chance which may, and 
often may not, win a sense of 
worth or fulfillment. To become 
an artist-beggar while waiting for 
opportunity to knock may lead to 
a state in which experience and 
knowledge are irrevocably re­
duced, thus unable to respond to 
the challenge. We learn from 
Brecht that when a mask is taken 
off a face, we shall not find the 
same face as before the mask was 
placed on it.
To make our graduates aware 
of their capabilities, to learn fur­
ther, and to multiply with agility 
choices for a career objective, is a 
situation upon which the validity 
and vitality of our education will 
be judged.
The United States and Iran
The following opinion concern­
ing the Iranian crisis was written 
by Robert Harris, a senior major­
ing psychology.
It is now 37 days since the 
American embassy was stormed 
by Iranian terrorists, or students 
depending on one’s political view­
point. The release of the 50 
American hostages seems as un­
likely today as the release of the 
American hostages seemed unlike­
ly over a month ago.
What has Khomeini accomp­
lished by sanctioning this terror­
ist. act for so long? 1) In the 
United States, the Iranian crisis 
has diverted public attention from 
the Senate’s distressing mishand­
ling of the SALT II agreement. 2) 
Khomeini has fortified President 
Carter’s resolve and Khomeini, 
though Khomeini doesn’t realize 
this among everything else he 
doesn’t realize, has politically in­
vigorated President Carter beyond 
any means Carter could have mo­
bilized internally. 3) In the 
world, the Iranian crisis has diver­
ted world attention from the com­
munist festering bowel known as 
Cambodia. 4) In Iran, Khomeini 
has diverted attention from an 
Iranian industrial disaster that is 
barely functioning at one third 
its pre-Khomeini level. Khomeini 
has managed to divert from his 
countrymen’s minds a 40 percent 
unemployment rate and a 50 per­
cent inflation rate.
Khomeini is failing. His revo­
lution is a revolution built on a 
negative premise, the hatred of 
the deposed Shah. Khomeini has 
nothing to offer his nation except 
a medieval society and hatred. 
The logical step fo Khomeini was 
to rally his people around their 
hatred of the deposed Shah and 
the United States.
Khomeini has rallied his 
people; he has inadvertently ral­
lied the American people; he has 
riveted world attention on Iran, 
but he still doesn’t have the cov­
eted Shah.
This state of affairs leads one 
to wonder-did Khomeini want the 
Shah in the first place? If he did 
want the Shah why didn’t Kho­
meini go after the Mexican em­
bassy when Pahlavi was in Cuer­
navaca? The answer to thisrhet- 
orical question is obvious: Kho­
meini probably would have got­
ten Pahlavi. The Mexicans would 
have understandably complied. 
The Shah would have been ‘tried’ 
and shot by Khomeini, and the 
hub of Khomeini’s revolution 
would have disintegrated.
The Shah is tragically, for 
the American hostages, a false 
issue. Khmeini knew damn 
well that the United States would 
not yield Pahlavi. It is in Kho­
meini’s interest that Pahlavi re­
main in the United States. A
dead Shah is detrimental to the 
core of Khomeini’s power. As 
long as the Shah lives Khomeini 
has a rallying point. The day 
someone collects his all-expense - 
paid trip to Mecca is the day that 
Khomeini’s rule crumbles. (Kho­
meini has offered a trip to Mecca 
for anyone who murders Pahlavi.)
What should the United States 
do when facing this mad paradox? 
First realize that it is a mad para­
dox. Second the United States 
should get Pahlavi out of this 
country immediately. The long­
er Pahlavi is in this country the 
longer Khomeine has a rallying 
point against the American host­
ages.
The third thing the United 
States should do is to press this 
shockingly unprecedented
“united” United Nations to do 
something tangible like imposing 
santions against Iran. This may 
the opportunity for the United 
Nations to prove that it is not 
just a worthless tenant languishing 
on valuable New York real estate.
The fourth thing the United 
States should do is be patient. 
Any covert action by the United 
States to foment a revolution 
against Khomeini will probably be 
used as a rallyiing point by Kho­
meini and any covert action will 
probably be unnecessry since 
Khomeini’s country is falling 
apart anyway.
HOW’S A CIVILIZED GOONTRY LIKE MS 
SUPPOSED T' WTH A COUNTRY UKEm WHEN myvi NOTHIN’BUT A NA OF INTOLERANT MAKINGS?
College Press Servtce
As long as the American host­
ages are unhurt, the United States 
should under no curcumstances 
use military force against Iran 
now or even after the hostages 
are released. Though it would 
make a lot of American people 
happy to see Iran wiped off the 
face of the earth, it would accom­
plish absolutely nothing.
The fifth thing the United 
States should do is maintain
its civil liberties by either pro­
secuting all individuals with 
visa violations or none at all. 
Iranians should not be singled 
out.
The United States should not 
stoop to the level of Iran. We 
should be patient. Time and 
principle are on our side. Kho­
meini will crumble under the 
weight of his own hatred.
some social value in cold showers, 
we’d like to have the option of 
hot water too. Paul E. Glotzer 
B-318 Mudge 
Grades?Editor:
Although I have been here for 
only two months, I have already 
experienced the greatest disil­
lusionment of my iife. I became 
accustomed to measuring my 
academic performance by the 
grades I received in each course in 
high school. 1 always felt that the 
grades I achieved accurately re­
flected the amount of work that 1
put into each course.
Now I find that my grades are 
no longer a useful means of evalu­
ating my achievement. All they 
tell me is that I’m “average” or 
“above average” or “below 
average.” 1 have also found that I 
have little or no way of determing 
just how much of an education 
I’m getting for the tuition 1 pay.
Why is this so? Why can’t I 
look at my grades and decide how 
much I’ve gotten out of a course? 
The answer is simple. I don’t 
know how much I’ve learned 
because the examinations on
which my grades are based are not 
designed to measure my perfor­
mance. Instead, they are de­
signed so that I will get a rather 
poor grade and then have that 
grade “curved” to a better grade. 
This may make the grading pro­
cess easy but it totally defeats 
the purpose of giving grades.
I am told that the academic 
community is concerned about 
“grade inflation”. I am deeply 
grateful to them for attempting 
to correct this problem, but I 
think that they have gone about it 
the wrong way. I believe that a
class average of 50 on an exam is 
every bit as useless as a class 
average of 100. Neither repre­
sents the performance of the 
students as individuals or as a 
group [sic].
The problem doesn’t end there. 
After two thirds of a class flunks 
an exam, the professor curves the 
grades so that the average comes 
out a “C+/B-.” So now I have a 
grade that says I did average, and 
yet I don’t know how much of a 
particular concept 1 have learned 
because I wasn’t able to do half 
the problems on the exam.
Clearly, there must be something 
wrong with a course in which the 
average student knows only half 
of the material covered.
Therefore, let me put this 
challenge to the professors of 
CMU. I would like to see an exam 
designed so that the average. 
grade is a C+/B— before any 
curves are used. If you can do 
this, then I think that you will 
be living up to your responsibi­
lities as professors at one of the 
most respected American univer­
sities.
Howard M. Frazier Jr.

---------------------------------------------------

GRAND OPENING
"SUIT YOURSELF"
FACTORY DISTRIBUTOR OUTLET
Stop in for the best selection 
in the newest men s suits.
• Men's SuHs and Sport Coats• 
•Latest Style* • Famous Brands•
• Tuxedo Rentals •
BELOW WHOLESALE
Add 10% discount for students
3710 FORBES 
2nd floor-above Cindys621-6371
Studio safety examined
continued from page 1
use. Students could then gain entrance by 
using a magnetic key card, much like the 
present Vali-Dine card. The earliest this 
system could be implemented would be 
next fall.
The incident has also raised questions 
regarding the condition of the Art Depart­
ment facilities in Doherty and elsewhere on 
campus. Orville Winsand, Head of the-Art 
Department, explained why his depart­
ment has facilities in Doherty: “When
they remodelled that area for us in 1974, it 
tripled the amount of space we had. We 
realized that it was a trade-off with safety, 
but we needed the space.”
Each year since 1974, Winsand has held 
several safety seminars with his faculty 
members. They in turn educated their stu­
dents. Three weeks ago, Winsand finished 
compiling a comprehensive safety survey 
made up of reports from the Art profes­
sors concerning safety devices and pro­
cedures they saw lacking in any .of the de­
partment’s work areas. Some of the propo­
sals contained in the survey include: a 
dust collection system for the ceramics 
area, ventilation for the fiber and dye room 
(dye fumes have been shown to cause can­
cer of the liver and bladder), dust collec­
tion in the metal casting room, and a cool­
ing system for the faculty studios (where 
temperatures frequently reach in excess of 
115 degrees farenheit during the summer).
The department has been aware of these 
needs, said Winsand, but has not had the 
money to correct them. He hopes that 
the survey will convince the administra­
tion of the need for these items.
Louise Pierucci-Holeman, fibers instruc­
tor, told the TARTAN that her room had 
been cleaned 5 times in the last four and a 
half years, and several students said that 
they had never seen a janitor anywhere in 
the Art Department area of Doherty. 
Cushing Phillips, Director of Physical Plant, 
said that those areas are scheduled to be 
policed and swept once a day, Monday 
through Friday. Although policing is sup­
posed to include picking up of trash and 
cleaning of fixtures, students often have 
to do the cleaning themselves. Often the 
color of the fixtures cannot be seen thr­
ough the dirt that is on them.
Pierucci-Holeman also said that she first 
noticed the hole between the men’s and 
women’s rooms a year and a half ago. At 
that time, it was of significant size on the 
women’s side, but was not all the way 
through the wall. She said she stuffed 
some paper and plaster in the hole, and re­
ported it to Physical Plant. One student 
said the hole has been in the wall since 
1974, shortly after the remodelling was 
completed. And although Phillips said 
that janitorial personnel are supposed to 
report maintenance problems, he has no 
record of the hole ever being reported.
“Although we recognize that there are 
problems,” and the “best answers haven’t 
been found,” Phillips feels that the major 
problem is that hazardous situations are 
not reported. He is curently involved in 
a study of the Art Department facilities 
in an attempt ot identify safety hazards; 
as of last week, there were no students on 
the committee that is doing the study.
The heat from the engine of this students car ignited some dry grass underneath it, setting the car on fire in the lower lot between Science Hall and the Coal Research Building.
40% food costs, 45% labor, and 15% 
overhead;
- Fraternity pledges breaking their food 
contracts will not be charged a penalty;
- The rising costs of such food as pork is 
attributed by Food Service to Holiday 
price increases;
- The “nonuniformity” of the Beef Stro- 
ganoff will be investigated.
Eichmuller also promised to look into
complaints about cold food, unlabeled 
dressings, pest control during open hours, 
and long lines in the Bakery-Deli.
SDC appropriated $300 for refresh­
ments and a $700 band deposit for a Val­
entine’s Day dance next semester. $50 was 
also allocated for “Provided by SDC” stick­
ers. which are to be placed on various SDC- 
supplied objects on campus.
The next SDC meeting will be on De­
cember 12 at 7:00 in the Wherrett Room.
by Ken Kulak
SDC held its weekly meeting on Wed­
nesday, December 5, in Skibo. Jerry Marks 
from Residence Life reminded represen­
tatives of the 12 noon locking of doors and 
apartments on December 22, after which 
no students will be able to enter the build­
ings until Sunday, January 6. President 
Jim Balsom announced that Student Sen­
ate had passed a resolution supporting 
SDC’s position on the petition by the Mar­
garet Morrison Apartment students. A 
meeting will be held this week on the con­
tractual aggreements between the Univer­
sity and its suppliers.
During this last week, the SDC Food 
Service Committee met with John Eich­
muller, director of University Food Ser­
vice, and learned the following facts: 
- The official breakdown of prices isThis is the 
last TARTAN of 
the 1970's 
See you next decade!!?
SUPA project results presented
Two CMU student panels will present 
the results from semester-long research pro­
jects at public hearings on Thursday and 
Friday, December 13-14.
The first student group has been exam­
ining building codes in Pittsburgh to make 
recommendations on the economic advan­
tages for Pittsburgh to make separate 
rehabilitation codes for older dwellings. 
“Bringing older housing up to present new 
construction standards can be an expensive 
proposition for the marginal home owner,” 
says David Scott, the project manager. 
“While inspectors do not insist that older 
homes be brought up to new housing 
standards, there is no uniform written code 
that they follow, which may create incon­
sistencies among inspectors.”
The hearing will be held on Thursday, 
December 13, on the seventh floor of 
the Public Safety Building on the corner
of Grant Street and the Boulevard of the 
Allies, at 3:30 PM.
The second student panel has examined 
the existing governmental and scientific 
standards in diagnostic radiography. The 
panel will present their recommendations 
to reduce health risks from low-level x-ray 
exposure, which include modifying the 
present inspection plan so that it concen­
trates on those hospitals which do not 
have their own health physicists and 
maintenance programs; increasing public 
awareness of the effects of diagnostic- 
radiation; creating a mutual record-keeping 
system for the EPA, FDA, and OSHA; 
strengthening technologist training in radi­
ation protection; and increasing the num­
ber of radiologists.
This hearing will be held on Friday, 
December 14, at 3:30 PM in Margaret 
Morrison, Room 14.
UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER 
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY
IMF IIQi
announces fellowships for 
graduate study
Environmental Ç 
Intern J
Program
PHD DEGREE PROGRAM EMPHASIZING 
MEMBRANE BIOPHYSICS AND CARDIO­
VASCULAR/RENAL PHYSIOLOGY
opportunities for students with degrees in biology 
chemistry, physics, engineering, and related fields.Summer or semester jobs for college students 
with government, private industry and nonprofit 
organizations in the environmental field.write: 
Dr. Peter Shrager 
Associate Professor of Physiology 
Box 642 
Rochester, N.Y. 14642
For internships in Ohio 
Michigan, Indiana and 
Western Pennsylvania:
EIP/Lower Great Lakes 
332 The Arcade 
Cleveland, OH 44114
Page 4-TARTAN-December 11, 1979------

---------------------------------------------------

December 11, 1979—TARTAN—Page 5
Non-students in dormsÌ
I'Th rtrnKldm nf cfll/lonfo Itirinn T n/»1r 1The problem of students living in 
campus housing without being enrolled 
came to serious light last week when a 
former CMU student, Lance Taylor, was 
killed in an automobile accident.
Dean of Student Affairs, Earle Swank, 
and Housing Director, Gerald -Dalton, 
said that they were both aware of two 
students living in university housing 
who are not legally registered, but, accord­
ing to Dalton, both have been served with 
notice to leave the campus by Monday, 
December 10, 1979.
“I’m sorry that the system took so long 
to catch up,” Swank said,“but it finally 
has.”
Registrar Harry Whitehead said that he 
was “aware that a number of students had 
been permitted to attend classes and live 
in a dorm” despite the fact that they were 
not officially registered.
Lack of communication between Uni­
versity departments and the Registrar and 
Housing offices is one existing condition 
that permit former students to remain in 
campus housing. When a department sus­
pends a student, that department office 
should notify both the Registrar’s and 
Housing offices. Dalton said that usually 
only the Registrar is notified. “Not every­
one is aware” of the need to notify Hous­
ing, says Dalton, thus the students remain.
Dalton added that the Housing office 
runs a cross reference check to determine 
who is enrolled and entitled to university 
housing and who is living in a dorm illegal­
ly. This check is made during the first 
semester so that students can be made to 
leave the room before the Spring semester, 
thus opening up housing for overloads 
elsewhere on campus.
Joshua Lavinskystory at right.)
'Circus' nets no profit
‘CMU goes to the Circus” was held 
Sunday, November 18, to raise money for 
new marching band uniforms. The circus, 
held at the Civic Arena “neither made 
money nor lost money,” according to 
David Wolf, associate director of the 
Alumni Challenge.
Since the first of December, the plea to 
the alumni has produced $1600 in funds. 
According to Wolf, the band needs 
$40,000 for the new uniform». They are 
made out of a scarce wool only produced 
in Scotland that costs about $20 per square 
yard.
The question of Senate paying for the 
uniforms has arisen. The Kiltie Band is 
funded by Senate for such items as music 
and instrument repairs, but as Senator 
Scott Miller explained, to give the band 
the money for the other student activities, 
we would have to raise the activities fee
by $10 for every student,” Miller stated.
The Circus was organized by the Pitts­
burgh Men’s Clan and by the Alumni 
Challenge, the committee formed to dir­
ect the fundraising drive. The committee is 
under the direction of Jack Purcell, a CMU 
alumnus and former Kiltie Band member.
Both Purcell and Wolf are optimistic 
that their goal of $40,000 can be met, and 
view the Circus as “the start of an ongoing 
program” to raise funds by using alumni 
and campus donations.
“Practically 8 out of 10 people I talk to 
make some kind of donation,” Wolf com­
mented.
Purcell, too, will continue his efforts. 
It is still my intention to raise the money 
for the uniforms,” Purcell stated. “The 
band has done a lot for the school and 
deserves the support of the campus.”
EE major strikes it rich
Joshua Lavinsky, a freshman electrical 
engineering student from Rye, New York, 
learned recently that his “Space War” game 
program for Radio Shack’s TRS-80 home 
computer will be purchased by that com­
pany. Lavinsky will earn more than S25JOOO 
from the sale.
Although a contract has not been for­
mally signed, a “general agreement” has 
been reached between Radio Shack and 
Personal Software, the California based 
firm that is both producing and distribut­
ing “Space War.” According to Lavinsky, 
“allowing for one month of production 
and one month of marketing,” the program 
should be available sometime toward the 
end of February.
“Space War” is a real time game prog­
ram, which means that the computer is 
constantly making moves, even while the 
player is deciding what to do. Lavinsky 
worked on the program from the summer 
of 1978 to January of 1979 on his own 
TRS-80 at home. Radio Shack’s first order 
of 15.000 copies of the cassette tape on 
which the program is written will make 
“Space War” the second most popular 
computer game in the country, behind 
“Micro Chess,” a program that has been 
the market for two years.
The original version of “Space War” 
used the popular names of the television 
series and newly released movie Star Trek, 
but because of legal problems with Para­
mount Pictures, the names had to be chan­
ged. For example, the Enterprise has been 
rechristened the Endeavor, and Klingons 
are now Jovians in the game.
Lavinsky pointed out that the reason 
this program is expected to be so popular is 
thai it can be played on any TRS-80, un­
like other games which require expanded 
memories. Estimated cost to the public is 
about $14.95, which is less expensive than 
“Micro Chess.” which costs about $20
$10 increase to 
be recommendedcontinued from page 1
TARTAN Editor Jean Pellegrini feels 
strongly that “Senate better do more re­
search before they recommend anything to 
the Trustees. This referendum was hastily 
organized to yield a quick answer to a com­
plex question. They need to break down 
compiled, it didn’t mean a thing to them. 
For example, inflation has affected enter­
tainment costs by 25%, and this year, our 
budget was cut. We can’t afford the types 
of groups we’d like to have.”
The Unified Fraternal Organization 
(UFO) position was “neutral,” said UFO 
President Roger Jaussi. “We did not recom­
mend an increase or decrease in the fee.” 
Jaussi’s personal feeling is “There should 
be no increase, because 30% wanted no in­
crease at all. For the Rules Committee to 
recommend a $10 increase is unfair to that 
large segment of voters. To recommend an 
increase, Senate must get the student body 
more behind it.”
^itiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNiiiiitiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiimraiiiitiiiiitttiuiiniiiiniimnmiiiiiitiniiiiiiniiiiiiNHtiiiuiiiitHiiiiiKiiiiiM
FRIDAY DECEMBER 74
NOONSKIBO LOBBY
A LOBBYFUL OF DECORATED 
TREES AND 
CHRISTMAS MUSIC 
BY 
BRASS QUINTET
COSPONSORED BY: 
CAMPUS-PROGRAM PLANNING 
& CMU MUSIC DEPARTMENT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—TARTAN—December 11, 1979
Iranian discrimination
A bill introduced in the Arizona State 
House of Representitives would raise 
tuition for Iranian students at state schools 
to about $10,000 per semester, while two 
colleges even attempted to bar Iranians 
from their campuses. Higher education 
administrators and legislators are sending 
Iranians a message.
Ralph Savage, President of Chattahoo- 
chie Valley Community College in Phenix 
City, Alabama, moved to ban all Iranian 
students from enrolling for winter quarter 
at the 2500-student campus.
Savage rescinded his order after talks 
with U.S. State Department officials.
Similarly, the board of Greenville Tech­
nical College in Greenville, S.C. , passed 
and then rescinded an order banning Ira­
nians from winter registration.
‘The board took the action because of
COLLEGE STUOENTS «wctwn on« yeet of com- pteimg B S MS or Ph 0 m phy»c«i sciences.
(or those candklates completing fmai year ofdagree lubsepuent training period i theory and protorypa reactor operation Research Jand design positions also exist Receive $700 par *month up to »0 month» p4u> other benefits on /your woy toword ochievtng your degree and a jcommission r the naval reaarves Competitive ap- |pbcents must possess U.S. c*t«enship and be un 4 dar 28 years of aga Sand resume and college tran « scripts to Mr. Dave Leonard. Suite 200, (3620 5th Ave . Pittsburgh. PA 15222. jTelephone 644-5413
their sentiments about the hostages,” 
explains Dr. Thomas Barton, president of 
the college, which currently has 104 Ira­
nians on campus. The ban was to last until 
the hostages were released from the Ameri­
can embassy in Teheran.
Soon after the resolution passed, how­
ever, the South Carolina attorney general’s 
office told Barton that Greenville stood to 
lose all its federal funding if it discrimina­
ted against Iranians. The board consequent­
ly rescinded the resolution a week after 
passing it.
Savage says the only reason he rescinded 
the ban was because the State Dept, 
warned him it could be “an impetus to 
other colleges in the United States to fol­
low suit, and thereby affect more than 
50,000 Iranian students.” If that happened, 
negotiations with Iran could be inhibited.
The Arizona effort to harrass Iranian 
students isn’t expected to be any more 
long-lasting than the bannings at Chatta- 
hoochie and Greenville. The bill would 
charge Iranians in Arizona state schools 
$1000 per credit hour per semester. Those 
Iranians carrying the standard load of 12 
credits could face tuition charges of more 
than $20,000 per year.
of Doherty Hall blew down during Friday night's storm, and it was cut up and removed before noon Saturday.
Dinner promotes understanding
“A Taste of India” was the title of the 
first of a series of international dinner and 
discussion nights hosted by the Interna­
tional Students Organization (ISO).
About 50 people from India, Canada, 
Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, 
Ireland, Italy, Poland, Taiwan, Turkey, 
and the United States were invited to the 
dinner.
Those people in attendance expressed the
feeling that ISO had achieved its mission 
objective of fostering ‘‘international and 
intercultural understanding” through the 
dinner. Students and their guests had the 
opportunity to taste Indian food and learn 
more about India in an international set­
ting.
After a slide show, the students attend­
ed a party where they discussed the cul­
tures, customs, and political situations 
of their native lands.
Made possible by a grant from Rockwell International
Presented on PBS by WQED/Pittsburgh. A Trans World International Production.

---------------------------------------------------

Students give their rooms
'Twas the night before Xmas
This poem was reprinted from the Tulsa Tribune.
Clenched firmly between his incisors was a smokepiece
Whose gray fumes, forming a tenous ellipse about his occiput, were suggestive of a decorative 
seasonal circlet of holly.
His visage was wider than it was high,
And when he waxed audibly mirthful, his corpulant abdominal region undulated in the manner 
of impectinated fruit syrup in a hemispherical container.
Without utterance and with dispatch,
He commenced filling the aforementioned hosiery with various of the aforementioned articles 
of merchandise extracted from his aforementioned previously dorsally transported cloth 
receptacle.
He then propelled himself in a short vector onto his conveyance, directed a musical expulsion of 
air through his contracted oral sphincter to the antlered quadrupeds of burden,
And proceeded to soar aloft in a movement hitherto observable chiefly among the seed-bearing 
portions of a common weed.
But I overheard his parting exclamation, audible immediately prior to his vehiculation beyond 
the limits of visibility:
"Ecstatic Yuletide to the planetary constituency: and to that selfsame assemblage my sincerest 
wishes for a salubriously beneficial and gratifyingly pleasurable period between sunset and 
dawn. ”
Twas the nocturnal segment of the diumal period preceding the annual Yuletide celebration, 
And throughout our place of residence,
Kinetic activity was not in evidence among the possessors of this potential, including that species 
of domestic rodent known as Mus musculus.
Hosiery was meticulously suspended from the forward edge of the woodbuming caloric ap­
paratus,
Pursuant to our anticipatory pleasure regarding an imminent visitation from an eccentric phi­
lanthropist among whose folkloric appellations is the title of St. Nicholas.
The prepube scent siblings, comfortably enscomed in their respective accomodations of 
repose,
Were experiencing subconscious visual hallucinations of variegated fruit confections moving 
rhythmically through their cerebrums.
Hastening to the casement, I forthwith opened the barriers sealing this fenestration, Noting 
thereupon that the lunar brilliance without, reflected as it was on the surface of a recent 
crystalline precipitation,
be said to rival that of the solar meridian itself,
Thus permitting my incredulous optical sensory organs to behold
A miniature airborne runnered conveyance drawn by eight diminutive specimens of the genus 
Rangifer.
Piloted by miniscule, aged chauffeur so ebullient and nimble
That it became instantly apparent to me that he was indeed our anticipated caller.
With his ungulate motive power traveling at what may have been more vertiginous velocity than 
patriotic alar predators,
He vociferated loudly, expelled breath musically through contracted labia, and addressed each 
of the octet by his or her respective cognomen:
“Now Dasher Wow Dancer!... " et al.,
Guiding them to the uppermost exterior level of our abode,
Through which structure I could readily distinguish the concatenations of each of the 32 cloven 
pedal extremities.
As I retracted my cranium from its erstwhile location and was performing a 180 degree pivot, 
Our distinguished visitant achieved with utmost celerity a downward leapentry by way of the 
smoke passage.

---------------------------------------------------

r Ul/\TQ«T t :
Page 8—TARTAN—December 11. 1979
each is provided with to cushion rough 
landings. Space Beasties come in a variety 
of colors though the most common is 
white with horizontal blue lines (in follow­
ing with the notebook paper original of 
course). Their most outstanding feature is 
their enormous mouth, well-equipped with 
a great number of teeth. Most times they 
can be seen only from a side view. Why 
such odd characteristics? Aside from Avi’s 
limited drawing abilities, Space Beasties 
have one vice: * they love to eat everything 
(except liver-Avi hates liver),, including 
each other and humans, so says Avi. For 
their own protection, it is best that they 
view each other from the side. Because of 
this, they have no government; each time a 
winner is announced he is denounced 
immediately. To compensate for such an 
appetite, the female Beastie is very produc­
tive, however, only one of the 10 million 
Beastie babies bom survives; the rest are 
eaten by the lone survivor. Because their 
mouths are always open at such a wide 
angle, they do not talk. Instead, they com­
municate by the sound of “braak,” one 
very similar to the of many birds.
Space Beasties adapt well to college life; 
they love to sleep in and skip class. They 
are even sports fans. They traveled with a 
few CMU students to a Pittsburgh Penguins hockey game in Boston on a sign proclaim­
ing “Space Beasties love the Penguins.” 
(That is the sign that hung outside on the 
Morewood Gardens E Tower wall and was 
removed. If anyone has ideas about what 
happened to the sign, Avi would be inter­
ested in knowing too.)
Now everyone knows what a Space Beas­
tie is, something very helpful during the 
Christmas season. Is there someone on 
your Christmas list who has everything, 
someone you can’t find the perfect gift 
for? Avi Orenstein has the solution to 
your problems. Why not buy that person a 
stuffed Space Beastie or a Space Beastie 
stocking filled with goodies that are out of 
this world, or a Space Beastie T-shirt for 
leisure-wear, any of which you can be sure 
he doesn’t already have. A Space Beastie is 
a warm and wonderful creature—share him 
with a friend.
[For more information about Space 
Beasties, contact Avi at 578-4780.]
by Kathy Krummert
Space Beasties are coming! Space 
Beasties are landing! Space Beasties are 
here! Since the beginning of the fall semes­
ter, mysterious signs have been found on 
bulletin boards and walls all over campus. 
What on earth are Space Beasties?
Space Beasties is not the name of a new 
intramural team nor are Space Beasties in­
vaders from the unknown depths of the 
galaxy. Space Beasties are the creation of 
Avi Orenstein, a CMU freshman in H&SS. 
While sitting in Psychology lecture one 
afternoon, Avi’s thoughts drifted off and 
he found himself doodling on his note­
book. A friend asked him what the funny 
looking character with the oversized head 
and long menacing fangs was supposed to 
be. For lack of anything better to call it, 
he dubbed it a “Space Beastie.” Thus was 
the creation of Orenstein’s monster!
Avi took his new Space Beastie home 
and his parents loved it. His mother is a 
designer, and she suggested he enterprise 
on the idea. She silk-screened T-shirts, 
made dolls and Xmas stockings. Avi began 
the promotion campaign by posting the 
first signs reading “Space Beasties are com­
ing,” followed by “Space Beasties are land­
ing,” and ending finally with the painting 
of the fence which read, “Space Beasties 
are here! GDI! Party Friday night.” (For 
those who are not aware of what GDI’s 
are, the initials stand for God-damned 
Independents, an informal alternative to 
fraternities and sororities. Since the crea­
tor of the Space Beastie and friends are 
members of the GDI’s, the Space Beastie is 
the mascot of the group.)
Space Beasties have no home planet; 
they are wanderers. They have no special 
traveling gear except the parachute that
Saturday, December 1 turned out to be a 
big day for almost fifty boys involved with 
The Big Brothers Association of Greater 
Pittsburgh. The brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha 
hosted an afternoon of fun for the 8 to 10 
year olds starting with a hamburger and 
hotdog lunch at noon and immediately 
followed by ‘The Seventh Voyage of Sin- 
bad”.
After the movie ended, the boys headed 
for the fraternity quadrangle to play foot­
ball, took part in a game of Pika “four­
square” or played ping-pong and podl. 
These activities provided an opportunity 
for interaction between the big brothers 
and little brothers.
According to the boys the highlight of the 
afternoon came at 4:30 when the grab bag 
began. Each boy recieved a gift such as a 
model , puzzel or squirt gun. Soon after, 
the boys were rounded up and left, holding 
on to their gifts with one hand and waving 
with the other.
All in all, the day was a great success. 
The big brothers were as excited and en­
joyed the afternoon as much as or more 
than the little brothers . Pika hopes to host 
a similar event with the association next 
semester.
Politics and Policy
PUC reconstruction: Part ii
by Bob Gleeson and Chris Fostel
In last week’s article we stated the the 
PUC should be reformed if it is not doing 
its ‘job’. We then defined the ‘job’ of the 
PUC to have two distinct aspects. The 
first of these is economic. The PUC tries 
to avoid monopoly pricing in industries 
which have been given state-guaranteed 
markets, there is a political need for con­
sumers to have a voice in structuring rates. 
The ^job’ of the PUC then is to balance 
these two competing roles in a way which 
is both economically sensible and politi­
cally feasible.
Given our definition of its purpose we feel 
that certain proposed changes can be ex­
amined and some conclusions can be made 
as to the value of each. The four proposals 
we have chosen certainly do not exhaust 
the possibilités. But we do feel that these 
four are representative.
the special economic conditions which 
led to the creation of state-guaranteed 
monopolies. Larger utility companies are 
simply more efficient. Unit costs are lower 
and unnecessary duplicate delivery systems 
are avoided by giving relatively few utility 
companies geographic monopolies. The 
developement of railroads provides us with 
an excellent analogy of what would happen 
to the utility companies without these mo­
nopolies. Given the need for thèse mono­
polies, the PUC has a very good reason for 
existing.
CLASSICAL GUITAR INSTRUCTION
All Levels — 
Beginners to Master 
Located in Mt. Lebanon 
Donald P. deLuenosh 
833-7435 343-1774
2) State-Owned Utilités. We are not con­
vinced that this Would either reduce in­
efficiency or increase service to customers. 
If the state owned the power companies, 
for example, and financed them through 
a general tax, the effective price to con­
sumers would fall to zero. This would 
cause a tremendous increase in power usage 
requiring more tax funds to finance and 
wasting energy resources . On the other 
hand, if the state maintained current price 
levels, state ownership would be a transfer 
of administrative duties. This would do 
nothing to lower price or increase service 
and could severly damage efficiency.
1) Abolish PUC and State-Guaranteed 
Monopolies. We have already described
3) Professionalize Commissioners. Given 
that we accept the current structure of the 
utility industry, this is one proposal de­
signed to improve the process of regulation 
We argue against it however. As stated 
above, the PUC has two roles, one econom­
ic , the other political. Requiring commis­
sioners to be power engineers or econo­
mists may enhance the economic role but 
it would cause mistrust and suspicion by 
the press, politicians, and consumers alike. 
These groups would feel they were being 
excluded from the regulatory process
4) Professionalize Staff and Improve Its 
Operations. We do acknowledge the impor­
tance of expertise in the fields of engineer­
ing and economic regulation to the accur­
acy of PUC rate decisions. An upgrading 
of the staff and its ability to analyze indus­
try data would be both helpful and 
feasible. At present, the relatively small 
staff analyzes piles of industrial data 
without even the benefit of a computer. 
Since the commissioners are not experts in 
the utility industry, they rely heavily on 
the advice of their staff. Th£ quality of this continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

December 11, 1979—TARTAN—Page 9
Robert Harris
Khomeini:'a fanatic puritan'
Ayatollah Ruhollah (“soul of God”)
Mussavi Khomeini is an enigma. It is not
Captain Ray of Light, alais Doug Stalker, spoke in the Wherrett Room on December 5 about what is dubbed "P$eudo-$cience." In a sarcastic, pseudo-expert style, the captain related "how to make a million bucks" from a gullible public. Because of this comical presentation, the "King of Debunkers" failed to convey any specific point or new information to the audience. Believers in astrology, pyra­mid power, and biorhythms who missed the lecture missed nothing on the faith shattering level.
Improving the quality of the PUC
even known how old he is. His age of 79 is 
just a guess.
What is know about Khomeini is that he 
is the most visible leader of Iran’s 30 mil­
lion Shi’ite Muslims.
Descended from a long line of political­
ly active ayatollahs, he has attained power 
through is opposition to all secular power 
since the early 1940’s. Khomeini, an ex­
pert on Islamic mysticism and jurispru­
dence, is renown for his obstinance, self- 
discipline, and insistence on the insepara­
bility of church and state. He is unsway- 
able by nature because he believes all his 
actions are firmly rooted in the Koran.
During the 1950’s Khomeini voiced 
his dissent against the Shah Pahlavi. Kho­
meini chastized Pahlavi for maintaining 
a close relationship with the United States 
and Israel.
Khomeni became an adamant foe of the 
Shah when the Shah, in 1963, instituted 
his “White Revolution,” a series of reforms 
that confiscated the land of the Shi’ite 
holymen. The “White Revolution” under- 
mined the mullahs monopolizing powers of 
all the social institutions of Iran.
Khomeini won support among the stu­
dents of Tehran when the Shah cracked 
down on Khomeini and the mullahs. The 
Shah exiled Khomeini to Turkey in 1964. 
The Turks threw out Khomeini in 1965 
when Iranian students in Turkey demon- 
trated on his behalf. He relocated in Iraq 
and stayed there for 13 years. During those
13 years he continued his diatribes against 
Israel, the United States, Communism, and 
the Shah, but his influence was drowned 
out by a burgeoning Iranian economy.
The failure of the vast majority of Irani­
ans to gain any noticeable benefit from the 
oil revenues and the repressiveness of Pah­
lavi ’s regime led to mass unrest. The Shi’ite 
clergy was the only autonomous institution 
capable of opposing the Shah, and the 
masses turned to the mullahs.
Khomeini was forced to leave Iraq in 
October 1978, and he then settled in Paris. 
Paris was a perfect place for Khomeini be­
cause he could utilize the international 
media, which he now disdains, to foment 
his revolution in Iran.
Khomeini returned to Iran on February 
1, 1979. Via civil unrest, he easily under­
mined Shahpur Bakhtiar’s rule, a civilian 
minister who was ceded the rule by the 
weakened Shah.
Khomeini’s rule has been marked by 
a theocratic repressiveness that has fostered 
hundreds of executions, a violent crack­
down on the secessionist Kurds of north­
western Iran, a ban on all music, a ban on 
mixed swimming, a ban on coeducational 
classes, a reinstitution of the medieval 
black rag, chador, worn by women, the 
abrogation of women’s fundamental rights, 
and a crackdown on all freedoms of the 
press.
Khomeini has led his nation to political 
and economic bankruptcy. He is xenopho­
bic and fanatically puritanical.
continued from page 8
work should be improved. This would, as 
always, require more money from the 
legislature. But this would be money well 
spent.
To summarize, the PUC has two roles to 
play. It appears to be playing its political 
role of providing public input into utility 
pricing policy. The best indicator of this 
is that utility companies continue to sur­
vive while at the same time consumer 
groups are not constantly marching on 
Harrisburg.
It is not so clear whether the economic 
role is being met though. Time and politics 
have blurred the exact pricing equilibrium 
points so that they can only be 
approximated. We recommend an 
upgrading of the professional staff so 
that the accuracy of these approximations 
can be improved.
In general , the PUC has done fairly well 
with a difficult job. Given its dual role 
through the years it has found an equili­
brium between politics and economics; a 
balance of politics and policy.
H&SS STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF: 
COME TO THE
H&SS HOLIDAY PARTY
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12 
1:00-6:00 PM 
IN THE AAC, BH 161
REFRESHMENTS AND CHEESE WILL BE SERVED

---------------------------------------------------

UFS UPDATE
A week's preview of coming 
Attractions at DINNERS UNLIMITED 
Dec. 11 — Dec. 17 
TUESDAY — CHRISTMAS DINNER 
WEDNESDAY — 1 /2 PRICE SPECIAL
(Remember to check the Board)
THURSDAY —
RIGATONI WITH MEAT BALLS $2.00 
SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN $2.50
ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF $3.25
Price includes soup, one entree, two 
vegetables, two rolls & butter, dessert, 
unlimited seconds on salad bar & beverages
— however, the second time thru the line is 
1/2 price.
FRIDAY — 1 /2 PRICE SPECIAL
(Remember to check the Board)
MONDAY — 1 /2 PRICE SPECIAL
The BAKERY/DELI 
is now featuring
2 HOT BISCUITS 
WITH HONEY
COFFEE
.50
COUPON
1 /2 Price Smoothie 
at SALADS PLUS
GOOD DEC. 11-17
COUPON
6 oz. Cup of Coffee or Tea 
at the TARTAN GRILL 
FREE
3PM-5PM DEC 11-17
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

Who and Grateful Dead give Pittsburgh a weekend of rock
Thp Who Dlaved at the Civic Arena December 2nd«
The Grateful Dead jammed at the Stanley on December 1st.
By Ted Smits
Throughout the sixties and the seventies 
two of the premier rock bands have been 
the Grateful Dead and the Who. The Dec­
ember 2nd weekend gave CMU students a 
chance to see both of these bands, as the 
Dead played at the Stanley theatre for two 
shows, while the Who sold out the Civic 
Arena. Both groups showed that they 
haven’t lost the drive and talent that has 
placed them in the rock hierarchy.
The Who
Three years after their last tour, the 
Who are now making the concert rounds 
again. During the first song, “Substitute”, 
most of the crowd seemed to be in shock, 
the Who were just unbelievably good. 
Townshend unleashed a spread-eagle jump 
to end the first song and whipped out the 
opening riffs of the early hit “I Can’t 
Explain.”
Bassist John Entwistle and drummer 
Kenny Jones provided excellent, driving 
rhythms. Townshend was such a flamboy­
ant, vibrant performer with his frenzied 
dancing and jumping, that he alone could 
satisfy the Civic Are ia crowd. I always, 
regarded the group as the perennial punk 
rockers and this show confirmed my 
suspicions. The raw energy inherent in the 
band creates a musical force that can’t be 
stopped.
Just running through the names of the 
night’s songs is enough to thrill any true 
rock and roll fan. “Baba O’reilly” and 
“Behind Blue Eyes” were knockout 
punches. Entwistle’s two songs “Boris the 
Spider” and “My Wife” were delivered 
with power and just the right touch of 
humor. A clip of the Quadrophenia movie 
had opened the show and “The Punk 
Meets the Godfather”, “Drowned” and 
“5:15” from the Quadrophenia album 
were all excellent.
The long versions of “Who Are You” 
and “The Music Must Change” greatly im­
proved the album cuts and also showed the 
jamming skills of keyboardist John 
Bundrick. The “Pinball Wizard” medley 
from Tommy was breathtaking and had 
the crowd singing along. The Who then 
closed the show with a flurry of old hits 
such as “I Can See For Miles”, “My 
Generation”, “Underture” (from Tommy), 
and the ultimate rock song “Won’t Get 
Fooled Again”.
Encores of oldie “Magic Bus” and the 
unappropriate “Dancing in the Streets” 
closed the show. The Who received the best 
audience response I have ever seen in 
Pittsburgh and they certainly deserved it.
The Grateful Dead
The band ran through a long jam of 
“Lion’s Den.” They closed out the set 
with Weir’s song “The Music Never Stop­
ped.” During the half hour break the 
crowd was getting more and more psyched. 
When the band came back for the second 
set it was obvious that they were just as 
anxious. “China Cat Sunflower” and 
“Going Down the Road” led off the set. 
The crowd went wild as the Dead rattled 
off smoking versions of “He’s Gone” and 
“Not Fade Away.” A drugged- out, drag- 
ged-out version of “Black Peter” cooled 
everything off for awhile but then Bob 
Weir revved into a hard driving version of 
“Sugar Magnolia” to end the show. An 
uninspiring encore of “One More Satur­
day Night” sent everyone home exhausted 
and satiated with the night’s performance.
“There’s nothing like a Grateful Dead 
Concert.” The minute the six musicians 
walked on the stage it was easy to see why 
that statement is true. After a few minutes 
of tuning up, Bob Weir and Jerry Garcia 
ran through a scorching version of the clas­
sic “Jackstraw.” The crowd jammed the
aisles for good as the. band launched into 
“Sugaree.” On “Me and My Uncle,” Weir 
displayed some excellent lead vocals while 
Garcia cooked away on the guitar. 
Throughout the show the famed dual gui­
tar work of Garcia and Weir was electri­
fying. The laid back blues style of Garcia 
was perfectly complemented by the slash­
ing rhythms of Weir.
Clarence Darrow opens at Playhouse with talented star
by Heidi Todd
Clarence Darrow a one-man show star­
ring Hugh A. Rose at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse’s new Downstairs Theatre is a 
glimpse of both our country’s turbulent 
past and the career of a great man of that 
period.
Differentiating the actor from the role 
is a difficult task in this play and adds a 
pleasing dimension to the production. 
Ross’s portrayal of Darrow * the humble 
man, and Darrow j the dramatic trial lawyer-, 
is to be commended. The character is espe­
cially compelling when one realizes Rose 
memorized two and one half hours of 
Darrow’s insights and perceptions on such 
varied topics as religion, marriage, civil 
liberty, education, crime, capital pun­
ishment, and the law, as well as excerpts 
from his most famous trials. Rose was
competent in singularly achieving emotion 
without the support of another actor or 
actress. Rather than merely reciting, Rose 
charged the character with emotion and 
sensitivity to create a dramatic monologue.
Darrow’s involvement in some of the 
most crucial trials'in this country’s judicial 
history make him one of our foremost 
criminal lawyers. He was a self-effacing, 
forthright man who refused to subvert his 
ideals despite extreme external pressures. 
While he denies any affiliation with the 
Socialist Party, he is sympathetic to their 
cause and defends such militant cases as 
the prosecution of Socialist Party leader 
Eugene V. Debs, Big Bill Haywood, and the 
McNamara boys who were accused of 
bombing the L.A. Times building and 
causing the deaths of twenty employees. 
Darrow was a liberal thinker in a time
King sings at fund raiser
Charlie King, singer/activist in the 
Guthrie mold, will be performing in Pitts­
burgh on Friday, December 14 1979. The 
evening will be a fundraising concert for 
the Pittsburgh Mobilization For Survival 
Organization.
More people know Charlie King’s music 
than know Charlie King. His music has 
been performed by Pete Seeger, Barbara 
Dane, Arlo Guthrie and Harry Chapin... and, 
Charlie King.
His relaxed interaction with his listeners 
breaks down the usual distance between 
performer and audience. The songs he 
writes and collects each have a story to tell 
of the great and the humble. His “Acres of 
Clams” is fast becoming an anti-nuke 
theme song.
Tickets are three dollars. For more in­
formation, call: 381-1400.
when liberal thinking was severly con­
demned and often punished.
Clarence Darrow’s strengths and weak­
nesses lie in the material chosen from 
Darrow’s repertory of public statements. 
The play can be viewed as a work of art
which, though not having a tremendous 
impact, can be appreciated for epigramma­
tic style and the talent of its star. The play 
can also be perceived as a historical docu­
mentary, a compilation of Darrow’s 
anecdotes.
Lady from Maxim's gets cheer
by Dave Sheward
At several points in the current produc­
tion of the CMU Drama Department, 
Tamara R. Tunie lifts her long, beautiful 
leg over a couch, sets it down again, and 
teasingly exclaims,“ Cheer up, darling! 
How’s you’re father?” I don’t know about 
anybody’s father, but The Lady from 
Maxim’s is more than enough to cheer him 
or anybody else up.
The Lady, played by Miss Tunie, is 
dubbed the “Shrimp” because of “her 
hard shell and soft pink inside.” The 
Shrimp wakes up one morning in the bed­
room of a respectable, stuffy doctor 
(James Steliotes) and sets in motion the 
series of wildly comic and totally improb­
able situations which are indigenous to 
all Feydeau farces.
Director, Walter Eysselinck moves 
through the intricate plot with comic 
dexterity. Steliotes and Tunie are mar­
velous as adversaries .tied together by 
circumstances. They complement each 
other perfectly; her cool control matches 
his nervous hysterics. Julia Dunster is 
wonderfully extreme as Steliotes’ religious­
ly fanatical wife. Hugh Estan manages to 
steal almost every scene he’s in as a ram­
rod-postured general, relentlessly domina­
ting every circumstance and charging
about the stage with manic energy. Spark­
ling comic cameos are provided by Michael 
Goldberg as a put-upon butler, Ron King as 
a clumsy Duke, and Wendi Hall as his deaf 
mother.
Natalie Leavenworth’s settings and 
David Velasquez’s costumes are functional, 
and in the second act, beautiful to look at.
The Lady From Maxim’s is a mad, fun­
ny, heady production. So “Cheer up, dar­
ling! How’s you’re father?”
Art Show
Tonight at 7 PM the artwork of Betsy 
Davis, Anne Patterson, Janice Wiley, and 
Donna Griffin opens at the Forbes Street 
Gallery.
The last show of the fall term will run 
from December 18 to 23. The show will 
be the work of Ed Eberle, assistant profes­
sor of ceramics. He will display some of 
his ceramics.
The show will run through Sunday, 
ember 16.
Dec
The Gallery is open Tuesday through 
Sunday from 12:30 to 4:30 and Tuesday 
through Thursday evenings from 7 to 9.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—TARTAN—December 11, 1979
CRITICS CHOICE
"Best" musical performers of the 1970's¦ . /» . i e _ _: _ J _  i x _   x „ 1 JP„3 » J 4-^^. A J ^ ^nr. ..*«11 1_  nxtpr nnrl mil unf n /'»IOCCU rFor this final issue of the 1970’s, the 
TARTAN has assembled the distinguished 
opinions of four staff writers to come up 
with their own list of what they believe are 
the five “best” musical groups/performers 
of the past decade. To clarify, the five 
groups/performers who have consistently 
put out high-quality material and perfor­
mances, and who are/were a general pos­
itive influence on the direction of the 
music of the seventies. The critic’s opin­
ions are strictly their own, they were not 
discussed between themselves or agreed 
upon beforehand, nor do they necessarily 
reflect those of the TARTAN.
... An objective choice
I’m trying to be objective. Really, I 
don’t even like some of these people. But 
I have a feeling these people will be remem­
bered.
In no particular order:
The Who — The Who were always there
PREGNANCY TAKES 
TWO
For Confidential Birth 
Control Service For Men & 
Women Call
THE PGH. FREE CLINIC 
661-5424
to remind us not to get fooled again, and 
that being a kid wasn’t always a hell of a 
lot of fun. As the eighties approach with­
out reluctance or mercy, Daltry and Town­
send will always define a generation. They 
made it through the 70’s with every iota of 
youthful restlessness they started with, 
back in a time when many of their fans 
weren’t even born. It’ll be a cold day in 
hell when these guys mellow out.
Miles Davis - Without this gentle man, 
Chick Corea might be washing cars in L.A. 
and Herbie Hancock playing background 
music in some tacky New York cafe. It’s 
almost not fair to include Davis because 
most of his influence came in the mid- and 
late sixties. But the folks he graduated 
from his informal school of progressive 
music have almost all defined large seg­
ments of contemporary jazz, especially 
electric jazz. Without him, Jeff Beck would 
still be hammering out power blues. Davis 
is a fascinating example of a guy studied in 
the best traditions who goes on to start his 
own best "traditions.
Bruce Springsteen — This impetuous 
roughneck from Asbury Park may have 
single-handedly given American rock’n roll 
a good name. Stardom didn’t really start to 
take control until long after the man woke us 
up, grabbed us by the scruff of our neck, 
and hauled us down the streets of our 
youth. Springsteen waged war on the com­
placency of the 70’s, and beer brawls, the
mThe Pittsburgh Symphony Society
presents 
three extraordinary artists
Pinchas Zukermaru Viola 
Leonard Rose, Cello
Saturday, January 5 at 8 pm at Heinz Hall
A rare opportunity to hear these three world famous artists 
performing together on stage at Heinz Hall.
4
Schubert: Trio-Sat/, D. 471 in B-flat major Beethoven: Duet in E-flat major.
for Viola and Cello. Opus 32 
Mozart: Duet in G major.
for Violin and Viola. K. 423 
Beethoven: Trio in C-minor. Opus 1. No. 3
Is
, This event is made possible by the Calhoun Challenge Fumi
Tickets
/ /nation :
Orchestra
Rous A-Z.............. . . . S 8.00
Rous AA-GG .... . . . S 6.50Grand Tier................ .. . SI0.00
Dress Circle ............. . . . S 8.00
Familv Circle ............ . . S 6.50
Gallery .....................___' S 5.00
Student Tickets ..... . .. S 3.00
(limit 2 per person)
Please mail to: Trio. Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. MX) Penn Avenue. Pittsburgh. Pa. 15222 *_____:____________________Phone (l)a\ )_____________
State..Zip.
Please reserve:No. of Seats1 ocationPrice per SeatTotalFirst choice:Second choice:I have enclosed a check or money order payable to Pittsburgh Svmphonv or. please charge this to my bank credit card.? Master Charge Account No.___________________________? VISA Expiration Date_________________________Signature as it appears on card____________________________
I endose a stamped, self-addressed envelope with mv order
first time, and motorcycles will never be 
the same.
King Crimson — In the woefully short 
years that Fripp and company cranked it 
up, progressive music was conceived, born, 
grew up, and practically died. The excesses 
turned many people off because they just 
didn’t sound right. That was the whole 
point. Crimson set boundaries in a field 
that was itself an extended boundary. Styx 
and Kansas are Crimson’s grandchildren. 
Fripp isn’t God, contrary to occasional 
delusions, but he did make excursions into 
space that are somewhere between heaven 
and the Twilight Zone.
Fleetwood Mac — They may be the 
most important of the whole bunch, be­
cause they displayed with extraordinary 
clarity the now-accepted maxim that 
commercial success ($$$) and talent are 
wholly exclusive and independent of each 
other. They may not be completely devoid 
of talent, but no one can seriously claim 
that their talent is proportional to their 
bank roll. Time slouches on.
-Dave Kirby 
... emerging out of the 70's
To qualify my choices, I omitted any 
jazz artist because I do not feel knowledge­
able enough to judge them. And, although 
I agree that quintessential groups, such as 
the Beatles, the Stones, the Who,and others, 
are still relevant to today’s music, they 
made their emergence and initial impact in 
the sixties, rather than the seventies. The 
following list is in no particular order.
Pink Floyd — There is no question of 
the international impact this group has had 
on the shape of rock music since the re­
lease of their monumental album, Dark 
Side of the Moon. The Floyd stretched the 
limited boundaries of rock and roll to 
allow their music to tackle abstract, yet 
relevant subjects, such as searching for 
one’s identity, lunacy, and death in today’s 
society. With the release of iheir new LP, 
The Wall, Pink Floyd show no signs of tiring 
imagination or loss of their remarkable 
skills in technical production.
Neil Young — Young is possibly the best 
example of an artist who can combine his 
music, lyrics, and performances to perfectly 
fit the effect he intends his songs to have. 
Since the release of Everyone Knows This 
Is Nowhere (including the classic guitar 
jam-out, “Down By the River”) each suc­
ceeding album has shown Young’s depth 
in songwriting and adeptness at incorpo­
rating various influences into his music.
Bruce Springsteen — Bruce initiated a 
whole new sound into American rock with 
his gutsy, energetic recorded performances 
that seem to make the needle pop right out 
of the groove. Here is a man who has some­
thing to say, who says it with poetic and 
intelligent lyric*, and pulls it off with 
instrumental precision, yet does it in such 
an honest and emotional way that his songs 
have the spontaneity and power that is 
vital to good rock and roll. On stage, 
Springsteen becomes the ultimate show­
man, turning his concerts into 3/4 hour, 
one-man shows.
David Bowie - Art rock and avante 
garde musicians owe a lot to Bowie for 
making their type of music fashionable and 
respectable. But besides his immeasurable 
influence on the attitudes of his peers. 
Bowie has put out some fine material and 
displayed his wide variety of talents as a 
producer, musician, arranger, and lyricist. 
Ziggy Stardust and Diamond Dogs show 
Bowie at his height of creativity, combining
rock and roll with classy production and 
extensive imagination. As Bowie continued 
to advance stylistically, he put out some 
of the classic tunes of the seventies, such as 
“Jean Genie,” “Rebel Rebel,” and “Fame.”
Led Zeppelin — Their emergence at the 
end of 1969 with their second album, de­
fined the term “heavy metal” and changed 
the role of the guitar in rock music per­
manently, themselves becoming the 
prototype guitar-oriented rock unit. The 
most outstanding feature of the Zeppelin is 
the imagination and incredible dexterity of 
guitarist Jimmy Page. A numerous amount 
of his licks have been lifted by countless 
other bands (and can still be heard in use 
on many tracks off of albums by the so- 
called “bands-of-the-eighties”, such as the 
Cars, Cheap Trick, and the Clash). 
Although, of late, their music has failed to 
retain the initial drive and awesome energy 
of the first five albums, their record and 
concert sales still show them to one of the 
most popular and powerful bands around 
today.-Alan Spero 
... on the basis of output
I have selected these groups and per­
formers on the basis of their output (albums 
and live performances) during the last 
decade.
Neil Young - Mystifying, frightening, 
entertaining. He’s been classified a loner, a 
genius, a flaked out cowboy, but his 
releases this decade stand second to none. 
From the melodic, songwriting classics 
After the Goldrush and Harvest, to the 
raw, chilling emotional rock of Zuma and 
On the Beach, Neil Young has never 
yielded to commercial or critical pressures. 
No one can write better or put more 
energy and feeling into rock music. To 
Young rock is art and he treats it as such. 
Best of all, his latest album shows he still 
remains at his musical peak.
The Allman Brothers Band — The two
brothers from Macon, Georgia were to 
change the face of rock and roll. In rock, 
energy is everything, and the Allman 
Brothers southern, electric blues had more 
raw energy and power than any other 
contemporary band. Duane Allman was the 
all-time electric slide guitarist and the 
original Allman Brothers Band worked 
with him to produce some of the most 
entertaining music ever recorded. An entire 
new musical style was formed to take the 
group’s place when they broke up.
Talking Heads - Although they’ve only 
released three albums, the Talking. Heads 
have already carved a spot for themselves 
in history. Leader David Byrnes’ influence 
in the rock world is enormous. By refusing 
to adopt the traditional musical paths, 
the band has uncovered some of the 
freshest, most exciting music to be heard in 
years. They are the band of the 80’s.
Little Feat — Primarily a showcase for 
the talents of Lowell George, this band was 
the tightest, most innovative band of the 
. seventies. Internal tliscord prevented them 
from taking the top off the music world 
but they came awfully close. Lowell’s gruff 
blues vocals and excellent slide work, 
coupled with the eccentric rhythms of the 
group to create one of the most enjoyable 
and gratifying sounds in years. 1
_ The Band — The Band is not always 
cooking just right, but when they are,there 
is none better. They grew up under the arm 
of Bob Dylan but emerged with some of 
the best American rock and roll evercontinued on page 13

---------------------------------------------------

December 11, 1979—TARTAN—Page 13
Pittsburgh Opera opens with new version of Butterfly
by Timothy LeVan
An innovative, vibrant production of 
Puccini’s Madame Butterfly opened last 
Thursday at the Pittsburgh Opera. From 
beginning to end, the production revealed 
great creative thought and a fresh “re­
thinking” of the opera.
The set was most convincing in its 
creation of a Japanese house and garden, 
while also being very practical for the 
needs of the opera. A bit of pre-curtain 
acting taking place on the set drew some 
of the audience’s attention, but to an 
unclear end.
After the first ten minutes of “ground­
work laying,” the opera got underway with 
Cio-Cio-San’s (Jeannete Pilou) full-throated 
entrance. Innocence radiates from Cio-Cio- 
San (nicknamed Butterfly). Her naive 
character is set in her entrance and con­
firmed throughout.
Almost as soon as Butterfly’s charac­
ter is set, her conscience enters—Suzuki, 
Butterfly’s maid. Patricia Kern played 
Suzuki as an intelligent, sensitive woman 
who sees the doom that is to beset 
Butterfly. Kern’s voice brought much 
emotion to her role.
The Bonze (Lee Cass) reinforced Butter­
fly’s naivete by revealing Butterfly’s aban­
donment of her people’s religion to become 
the true wife of the American Navy Lt., 
B.F, Pinkerton (Rico Serbo.)
Pinkerton, although acted well and quite 
believable visually, had some intermittent 
problems singing “over” the large Puccini 
orchestra, as did Prince Yamadori (John 
Absalom’)
Pilou shows her ability to sing a soft, 
“floated” melodic line during the first act, 
which came as a comfort after her first 
entrance.
The first act ended quite effectively as 
the sky over Nagasaki harbor darkened and 
the stars appeared. Act II began without a
Best performers of the '70's continued . . .
continued from page 12
recorded. All exceptionally skilled 
musicians, their music evokes a musically 
timeless era, a sense of emotion that is not 
found anywhere else. The Last Waltz 
should have been enough to convince any­
one of their greatness, if not, go out and 
buy The Band. Within a week you'il be 
wanting to own all of their material.
-Ted Smits
... ignoring commercial success
I have chosen what I feel to be the five 
best rock artists of the 1970’s. Such choices 
are difficult because of the ambiguity in 
the definitions of “best”, and of “rock”. I 
have looked at output and influence, and 
have tried to ignore commercial success. 
The artists are in no particular order.
Genesis — This group is the most ac­
complished exponent of the English pro­
gressive rock movement which began around 
1970. From their debut album that year 
through their ninth album in 1977, they 
consistently expanded creatively. The 
band’s style has been unimitable. Their su­
perb lyrics, using fairy tales and folk stories
to comment on modern society, have com­
bined with complex musical arrangements, 
which have utilitzed a unique blend of ac- 
coustic and electronic instruments. Despite 
their sizeable skills, Genesis has not been 
interested in showing off talent, as too 
many other bands have, but instead had 
strived to produce high quality songs. 
Genesis’s repertory exemplifies their excel­
lence throughout the decade.
Santana — This band was a constant 
force in the music of the seventies, under 
the leadership of Carlos Santana. Santana, 
who is perhaps the most respected rock 
guitarist around, has had a number of 
musical influences, including Latin Ameri­
can music, blues, soul, and jazz. He success­
fully tied these elements together to form 
an exciting rock act, both in concert and 
on the group’s numerous albums.
Joni Mitchell — Perhaps more than any 
other individual in the past decade, Joni 
Mitchell has made great strides in establish­
ing rock music as an art. A fine painter as 
well as a singer, songwriter, and musician, 
each of her albums has been more refined 
and sophisticated than the preceding one.
While her early material was folk oriented, 
her more recent output has leaned toward 
jazz. The quality and seriousness of her 
music has done much to change the public’s 
attitude toward rock.
Steely Dan — This band is not really a 
band at all, but a collaboration of two 
masterful composers and a number of studio 
musicians. Walter Becker, Donald Fagen, 
and company released six studio albums in 
the 1970’s, each of which is a classic. Their 
original sound has sported jazz influences,
Lynyrd Skynyrd — Although this group 
owes much to the Allman Brothers, they 
brought the southern rock movement to its 
peak, and have influenced many bands 
along the way. Their albums are filled with 
good songs, but their real strength was live 
performance. Ronnie Van Zant’s strong 
vocals competed with the picking of three 
lead guitarists ( a system they initiated) to 
create an energy that few bands will ever 
match. Van Zant’s death was a great loss, 
but Skynyrd’s output should be remem­
bered for a long time.
-Scott Schaffer
The natural beauty of North America's wilderness depicted in 
full-color photographs, month by month, in a perenially best­
selling wall calendar. Quotes fromliterature and natural history, 
significant holidays, phases of the moon, generous space for 
daily notes. Introduction by Ed Abbey. $5.95
SIERRA CLUB WILDLIFE CALENDAR 1980
Beautiful, often rare secies of wildlife depicted in their natural 
habitats throughout the world in fourteen full-color photographs. 
Introduction by Barry Lopez. $5.95
THE 1980 SIERRA CLUB CALENDAR 
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
This year's edition of the popular calendar for young people is 
now a large-format wall calendar and provides children with 
fascinating insights into the natural world as they follow the 
seasons through the year. Insects are the theme, both in full- 
color photographs and the nature lore and activity projects that 
supplement and decorate the monthly pages. $5.95
curtain—a daring attempt for any opera 
company—and came off with great success.
Butterfly’s famous aria, “Un bel di” 
furthered her character, but was not 
especially inspiring vocally. Suzuki silently 
foreshadows Pinkerton’s abandonment of 
Butterfly during this aria. Although Butter­
fly takes their marriage (for 999 years, 
“with the option, at every month, to cancel 
the contract,”) seriously, Pinkerton does 
not.
The humming chorus which closed Act
II was very beautiful and most effective in 
conjuction with the night fall over 
Nagasaki. The orchestral prelude to Act III 
was used as an intermezzo to bridge Acts
II and III. Again, with fantastic effects, 
we see morning break over Nagasaki.
The ship which is to return with 
Pinkerton aboard is heard (at a distance) 
by sailors onboard. This was achieved rather 
unsuccessfully from the stairwells in the 
audience.
The ship does return, carrying not only 
Pinkerton but his American wife. After 
two attempts to “soften the blow,” 
faithful Butterfly learns the truth.
After her moving aria “piccolo Iddio! 
Amore, amore mio,” to her and Pinkerton’s 
son, Trouble, she kills herself with her 
father’s hari-kari knife. In the aria, Trouble’s 
naivete about his mother reminds the audi­
ence of Butterfly’s previous naivete with 
Pinkerton. Pilou sang with a white, vibrato- 
less sound which added drama to her last 
few lines before her death.
OHE 8IFT SUPPORTS 
OVER 160 AGENCIES & SERVICES
SIERRA CLUB ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 1980
A week-by-week tribute to the natural glory of our continent. 
Fifty-eight full-color photographs of North America's wilderness 
in an ever-popular desk calendar. Introduction by Sierra Club 
Executive Director Michael McCloskey. $5.95
SIERRA CLUB WILDERNESS CALENDAR 1980
SIERRA CLUB TRAIL 
CALENDAR 1980
Outdoor life around the world is celebrated in fourteen full-color 
action photographs of backpacking, mountaineering, cross­
country skiing, river running, caving, and hot-air ballooning. Line 
illustrations and selections from the literature of the trail. In­
troduction by Yvon Chouinard. $5.95
NOWSERVING
ALLEGHENYWASHINGTONCOUNTIES

---------------------------------------------------

The <U.S.S. Tartan sent down a landing party (from left to right: Visual Systems Engineer Zusman, C. Kidder (a non- Federation Observer), Science Officer Kirsop, Chief Engineer Pai, Executive Officer Brzustowicz, and Engineer Zayas) to observe the new Star Trek movie. The landing party reported that it was "unlike anything they had encountered before."
IRON CITYSCHUTZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMPALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHLITZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER LIGHT MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak SubsSERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERSMILLERS. COLT 4S. MOL SON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK STROMS HEINEKEN LIGHTOne different 16 o/ 6 pk featured each meek SCHLITZ • PABST SCHLITZ MALT • STROH'S * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLUWED TO ADVER­
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES• SPECIALTY ITEMS •
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES • PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES --------- IMPORTS ----------
HOi DOG SHOPS, INC 
621-7388 so 621-1185
•BASS ALE England •DORT HANSA Germany •SAM MIGUEL PNKiptne« •SPATENBRAU Germany •ST PAULI GIRL Germany •PILSNER URQUELL Czech •GUINESS STOUT Ireland •DAS XX EQUIS Mexico •WURZBURGER Germany •HARP LAGER Ireland •LOWENBRAU Germany •O'KEEFE ALE Canada •DINKEL ACKER Germany •TECATE Mexico •ISENBECK W Germany • IRY STALL Italy MACKESON England
• KIRIN Japan• PERONI Italy• RIGNES Norway •BECKS Germany •HOFBRAU Germany •ZYWIEC Poland• KRAKUS Poland• SUPERIOR Mexico •FOSS1 fcRS Australia •HEINEKEN Holland •MOLSON ALE Canada •PAULANER Germany •GOSSER Austria• TANKARD London• UNION W Germany• PALE ALE London •DINKEL Germany• WARFTEINEL Germany
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
PREX-MAS SALE
save 15% to 40% on selected styles 124 Oakland Ave.
gift certificates available too!
OPEN DA1L Y 10:00 a. m. - 6:00 p. m.
TARTAN-December 11, 1979
Theatre Express' Dynamite Tonight fizzles
by Kate Bertrand
War is hell, there’s no disputing that. 
Unfortunately, Theatre Express’ Dynamite 
Tonight, an operetta about war, is also hell. 
The biggest flaw in this production lies 
in the play itself. Although some of the 
performers are outstnading actors and 
others have magnificent voices, the play it­
self has gaping flaws.
Dynamite Tonight is basically plotless. 
Its general thrust is that war is a farce, 
that war is tough, that war is cruel.' This 
point is emphasized again and again in 
Arnold Weinstein’s rambling lyrics. Al­
though his point is undeniably true, it
has been made already in other more co­
herent works.
To lighten the overwhelming “War is 
Hell” theme, Dynamite Tonight uses 
funny dancing and zany lyrics. The 
dancing is performed and staged well, 
and the lyrics are sometimes genuinely 
amusing. Before soldier Smiley returns 
to battle ffom the good guy’s hideout, for 
instance, he says: “The other day I was
tired of killing and death, so I took a day 
off and went to the soldier’s graveyard. 
The leaves and the breeze were laughing 
like monkeys over the graves of the sol­
diers. I called out to Death and said,
‘Death stop overeating! Aren’t you satis­
fied yet?’ ”. Unfortunately, the comical 
tangoing and high kicking often cancel 
out the poignancy of Weinstein’s message. 
The effect is ironic overkill, and the au­
dience doesn’t know whether to giggle or 
cry.
Considering their vehicle, Ken Stirbl 
(Smiley) and Jed Harris (Prisoner) turned 
in extraordinary performances. Stirbl 
won everyone’s heart by singing, after 
being blinded in the war, “How I’ll miss 
th movies, movies, movies...”. This scene 
was easily the most touching in the play.
Although the singing in Dynamite
Tonight was generally mediocre, Claudia 
Zahn (Timpattia) stood out as a first-rate 
singer. Her death song, sung in a made-up 
enemy language, was sincere and extremely 
well performed; it’s unfortunate that Zahn 
has such a minor part in the show. Zahn, 
more than the rest of the. cast, sings Wil­
liam Bolcom’s atonal music with ease.
The cast and crew of Theatre Express 
cannot be faulted for the less than remark­
able results of this first production in 
their 1979-80 season. Any company 
would be hard pressed to do well with 
Dynamite Tonight.
Bertrano starts tomorrow
Keep Red Cross ready.
by Karen Stevens
Bertrano or Hats Don’t Lie will be per­
formed tomorrow night (December 12) at 
the Lion Walk Performing Center, 420 
N. Craig Street at 8:00 PM. This new play 
is a black comedy with a satiric bite set in 
the private eye era. What is really 
special about this production is that it was 
written by a CMU alumnus, C. V. Peters, 
who wrote it specifically for Michael Harris 
to star in and Bob McGrath, a CMU senior 
drama major, to direct. The remainder of 
the cast consists of CMU students.
Bob recieved this honor after Mr. Peters 
was inspired by his last work, Cowboy
Does this University treat its students fairly? 
Call for an open forum and find out.
At the December 4 meeting. Student 
Senate passed the following resolution:
Be it resolved that Student Senate sup­
ports SDC’s position on the Margaret Mor­
rison Apartments issue that:
(1) Restitution should be made by the 
University to the Apartment residents: 
and
(2) The funds for this restitution should 
not come from the housing budget. *
This letter was sent to the administra­
tion after the meeting.
Mouth, which he directed last year for 
Theatre Express.. Bob, a resident of Bur­
bank, CA, has been involved in the theatre 
for seven years and is presently a member 
of the Pacific Repertory Co.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential fritnd, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Fraa Pregnancy Tasting. 
Cvanlng Hours Availabla
The play is one of cheap women and 
fast games. The music is by Mike Skolf, ly­
rics by Hugh Eston, lighting done by John 
Samish, sets by Forrest Rogers, and hats/ 
costumes by Cathy Norgren (also a mem­
ber of Pac. Rep. Co. ). For a $1 donation 
you may share the excitement to be 
offered by this new play, which will 
premiere in Los Angeles in February.

---------------------------------------------------

sports
Tartans struggle with pre-season schedule
The Tartans are able to get a 20 point 
scoring performance from any player; 
that’s how balanced the attack is. For the 
Tartans to keep winning though, Huffy 
has to continue to have these kinds of 
games.
On Friday night, big bad Bucknell 
marched into town. The Bisons won 78-69, 
but anyone who saw the game realized that 
either Bucknell didn’t belong in NCAA 
Division I or else the Tartans are able to 
hold their own with big schools. If the 
Tartans play like this in the conference, it 
could cause nightmares for the other seven 
PAC-8 teams.
CMU led at halftime 42-39 and did not 
give up the lead until midway through the 
second half. It was a game very similar to 
Pitt-Johnstown game, the Tartans building 
up a lead and holding that lead most of the 
game, only to fall behind and never regain 
momentum.
Bucknell was put in its place the first 
half, as Joe Belechak dazzled everyone by 
driving to the hoop and putting in reverse 
lay-ups as well as pumping in 20 foot jump­
ers. Larry Hufnagel played well again, 
driving to the hoop over the tall Bisons.
Bucknell rallied in the second half 
with buckets by Barry, Leslie and O’Brian. 
Once the Bisons built a substantial lead., 
they went into the four corners and the 
Tartans came up empty handed.
Mariano DeFilippo entered the game for 
the first time in a week, but his groin in­
jury noticeably hampered his quickness. 
However, Dan Donahoe has been no let 
down as his replacement with his deadly 
jumpers from the top of the key. CMU 
was led by Huffy with 24 points and 
Belechak with 17. Bucknell’s Barry jed 
all scorers with 30.
TARTAN NOTES: Coach Booth’s JV 
team had two impressive wins last week, 
defeating Pitt-Johnstown 84-70 and 
crushing Pittsburgh Tech by a score of 114- 
38. Carl Mulac led CMU with 21 points 
against UPJ and Gary Petrosky pumped in
30 against Pitt Tech. This week the varsity 
squad travels to Westminster on Wednesday 
and comes home on Thursday to face 
Slippery Rock before a three week Christ­
mas layoff. My selection for fans of the 
year: Rogky Cersosimo and Jim Liput.
They keep the opponents on their toes 
game after game.
UPJFG-AFT-APts
Bogaczyk10-163-523
Fisher11-213-325
Starn6-91-113
Urda4-913-1610
Pion3-1110
Gunter3-56
Totals37-7187
WalshFG-AFT-APts.
Dungen7-150-214
McClelland 11-192-224
Sabalski2-70-04
Ungeshick 4-120-08
Hill2-30-14
Sedmock5-120-010
Seigel240-14Hess0-10-00Totals1-40-0270
BucknellFG-AFT-APts.
Barry14-212430Sigel3-7 *1-27O’Brian5-92412Leslie8-191-117Flannery1-3244.Hepburn1-30-02 1Harrison0-104)0Adkins1-12-24
Page (1 -20-02
Totals34-66*10-1778
by Denny Postufka
At this point in the season, Dave 
Maloney’s Tartans are certainly one of the 
best 1-3 teams around. This misleading 
statistic is due to the fact that CMU has 
one of the toughest pre-season schedules 
of any Division III team. The Tartans 
Finished last week with a victory in the 
home opener against Walsh College and 
lost two hard fought games at the hands 
of Pitt-Johnstown and Bucknell.
The Tartans traveled to Pitt-Johnstown 
last Tuesday only to fall short by a score 
of 87-79. The score was not very indicative 
of the game played by CMU, who held 
their own until the closing minutes of the 
contest.
The Tartans were kept in the game by 
the outside shooting of Buddy Hobart and 
Dan Donahoe. Hobart led the Tartans in 
scoring with 21 tallies, hitting on 71% of 
his shots from the floor. Donahoe, starting 
in place of injured senior point guard 
Mariano De Filippo, followed Hobart with 
16 points, all of them from at least 20 feet 
out. DeFilippo was sidelined for the UPJ 
game and the Walsh game with a groin in­
jury.
The Tartans played a very even first half 
with UPJ, as the halftime score indicated, 
36-36. Midway through the second half, 
the Mountain Cats started pulling away as 
they built their lead up to eight. CMU 
took a taste of their own medicine when 
UPJ went into their four corner offense 
with about four minutes remaining. The 
Mountain Cats were finding Glenn Fisher 
and Dutch Bogaczyk open under the hoop 
and they responded with a few slam dunks 
in the late going.
Coach Maloney said the important fac­
tor was “no defense, 87 points was just too 
much to give up.”
Glenn Fisher led the way for UPJ with
25 points and 11 rebounds followed by 
Bogaczyk with 23 points. Dave Hofmeister 
led the Tartans in rebounds with 10. Larry 
Hufnagel had 15 points for the Tartans, 
but after two games, he still didn’t look 
like the Larry Hufnagel who was the con­
ference MVP a year ago. “Huffy” hit on 
only 6 of 15 field goals and 3 of 7 free 
throws.
The following night, it was a completely 
different story. Enter Walsh College and 
welcome to the Larry Hufnagel show.
WINTER SPORTS SCHEDULES 
MEN’S BASKETBALL
Dec 12WestminsterA :8:00p.m
Dec. 13 Slippery FlockH8 00p m.
Jan. 3Bible BaptistH8:00 p.m
Jan, §laRoche 1' „ ‘A800p.m.
Jan 9John Carroll *A8:00 p.m
Jan 12Hi'am• ’ H2 00 p.m
Jan t6ThielH8 00pm
Jan.19Case wesiförn"A2 OOp.m
Jan 23 BetbanyA8:00p m.
Jan 26AlleghenyH2:00 pm
Jan 30W&JH8:00 p m
Feb. 2Hiram¦-V A8 OOp.m
Feb 6John CarrollH8 00p m
Feb 9Case WesternH2:00 p.m
Feb 13ThielAe OOp m.
reb. 16 AlleghenyA8:00p.m
"eb 19 BethanyH8:00 p.m
:eb 21W&JA8 OOp.m.
Jan 
Jan 
Jan 
Jan. 
Feb 
f eb 
Feb 
Feb 
Feb Feb 
Mar
SWIMMING
t? Htram H 2 OOp.m
if Duques^e A 4 00pin
?è JobnCarrpH H tOOpnv
30 Bef-anv ,A ?00pm2 Gettysburg i A 2 00pm
9 Casr Western \,H 2 00pmtfj yii&J 1 30pm
?3 Allegheny A 2 00pm
28 PAC Championship
29 at W&J
. :
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Dec 11 BethanyA7:00p.m
Jan. 12 Point ParkHNoon
Jan. 16 ThielH6 OOp.m
Jan. 19 Seton HillA1 OOp.m.
Jan.26 Chatham«Noon
Jan 28 GenevaA700 p.m
Jan, 30 W&JH6:00 p.m
Feb. 1 CarlowH7 00 pm
Feb 2 Point ParkATBA
Feb 4 Seton HiUA7:00 p.m.
Feb. 6 St. FrancisH6:00p.m
Feb 13 St. FrancisA5:45p.m.
Feb 16 Robert MornsH11 00a m.
Feb 18 ChathamA7 OOp.m
Feb. 20 BethanyH6:00pm.
Feb 23 W&JA1:00 p.m
Mar. 3 CarlowA7.00 p.m
FENCING
Jan. 19 W Virginia U./
Allegheny H 1:00 pm
Jan 31 PSU-Fayette H 6.00pm
Feb. 6 IndianaUmv of Pa A 6 30pm 
Feb 9 Case Western H TBA
Feb, 10 Intercollegiate Foii
Tourney H 10 00am
Feb 16 CSUOberlmCa! SI
College M » 00 p m
Mar i Penn Stale Untv H 100pm 
Mar 4 PSU-Fayette A 6-30pm
Mar. 6 Indiana Umv ol Pa. H fc'3Cpm 
Mar 8 Couples Tournament H it'00 am 
Mar 1? Caiitorn.a State A 6 30pm 
Mar 12-1 5 NCAA Nationals ktPSU 
Mar, 27-29 NIWFA Nationals at Ohio St U. 
May 3-4 AFLA'Sectronals
CMUFG-A FT-APts.
Hobart10-141-221
Hufnagel6-153-715
Hofmeister4-8' 2-310
Belechak5-141-211
Donahoe8-140-016
Lewis242-26
Novak0-00-00
totals35-699-1679
CMUFG-AFT-APts.
Hobart6-91-313
Hufnagel12-132426
Hofmeister 7-160-010
Belechak3-87-1021
Donahoe1-12-38
Lewis1-10-02
Novak35-570-02
Totals12-2082
CMUFG-AFT-A
Hobart2-105-69
Hufnagel10-174-724
Hofmeister3-70-16
Belechak8-151-1' 17
Donahoe3-83-49
DeFilippo0-10-00
Novak1-10-0
Clancy1-10-02
Totals28-6013-1969
CMU won 82-70 led by Huffy’s 26 points 
and 13 rebounds. Huf hit on 12 of 13 field 
goals for an incredible 92%. Joe Belechak 
added 21 for the Tartans, most of them 15 
to 20 foot jumpers from his wing position.
The Tartans built up a seven point half- 
time lead, 41-34. They increased that lead 
to 12 early in the second half, but Walsh 
College came back to tie the game up mid­
way through the half. Once the Tartans 
built up a lead again, they went into the 
four corners offense and pulled out of 
reach for Walsh.
Coach Maloney stated, “The team look­
ed inconsistent most of the game, but 
when it came down to the important 
closing minutes, Belechak and Hufnagel 
were hot and we pulled away.”
Larry Hufnagel led the Tartan attack against Bucknell with 24 points.
Buddy Hobart (no. 20) converts for two points as Joe Belechak (no. 14) looks on.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—TARTAN—December 11, 1979
'At times they played like wild
The Carnegie-Mellon Tartans recently 
completed the most successful season in 
their gridiron history compiling an unblem­
ished conference record, and adding an 
exciting double overtime playoff victory to 
their list of impressive victories. This recent 
return to football prominence is a welcome 
sight to the sports-minded of the city and 
campus community. Many of these sports 
enthusiasts are old (sharp) enough to recall 
the days when Carnegie Tech and Pitt had 
one of the hottest inter-city rivalries in the 
nation. They remember when the likes of 
Notre Dame, Michigan State, and North 
Carolina State strolled into town to take 
on the “Big Red. ’’But have you ever heard 
of Billy Kern, George Muha, or Ray Car­
nally? Who? The names of these heroes of 
the Tech gridiron should be placed along
side those of Glenn Davis, Doc Blanchard, 
and the Four Horsemen in the annals of 
collegiate football stardom. The following 
article, written by Jeff England, appeared 
in the December 10, 1974 issue of THE 
TARTAN. Read and appreciate.
In 1938 the famous pro quarterback 
and Hall-of-Famer Sammy Baugh wrote a 
newspaper article which contained the fol­
lowing description of certain nationally 
ranked college eleven: “They are as capable 
a college team as 1 have ever seen . . . Those 
fellows were really vicious. Never have 1 
seen such fierce tackling or hard charging 
on the line...At times they played like 
wild men...the zest and ferver they 
into it . . . Notre Dame should have been 
proud to beat them.”
Incredible as it may seem today,
Sam was referring to no other than the 
Carnegie Tech Tartans, following their 
stunning 20-10 domination of a powerful 
cross-city rival, the Pitt Panthers. The vic­
tory upped Tech’s record to 5-1; by sea­
son’s end it was 7-1. On January 2, 1939, 
the Tartans met the Texas Christian Uni-
men . . . Notre
their 49-0 triumph. In Schenley Park, the 
most fabulous autumn ever was underway.
A week later Tech prepared to meet 
Wittenberg, and the Ohio school proved to 
be another pushover. Tech stomped, 32-13, 
behind touchdowns by Muha 
Condit and Moroz.
The easy pickings ended there, however. 
Fattened up on appetizers, Carnegie now 
confronted the meat of its schedule. The 
first entry was Holy Cross of Worcester, 
Mass., undefeated in its last fourteen 
games.
The contest began as it should have, 
with two strong clubs hitting each other all 
over the field but with neither gaining an 
advantage. An advantage finally came, 
though, in the second quarter, and it be­
longed to Tech. Quarterback Ray Carnally 
galloped 42 yards into the endzone, then 
put his own conversion over the crossbar.
After a 7-0 halftime, the Crusaders 
didn’t waste a single play in charging back; 
in fact, they charged right up the field with 
the opening kickoff for a touchdown and 
drew within a marker. Missing the extra 
point doomed them, though; they couldn’t 
push the rugged Tech defense for another 
score and the match ended as a 7-6 heart- 
stopping Tech triumph.
October 25 was the date of the annual 
clash between the Fighting Irish of Notre 
Dame and the Tartans.Ridiculous as such a 
pairing seems today, it. was nevertheless an 
intense rivalry then, with Tech winning sev­
eral of the matchups in the ’20s and ’30s. 
In 1938 South Bend had nurtured another 
powerful eleven, but the growing attention 
attracted by the undefeated promising Tar­
tans naturally made this an important 
meeting once again.
It was, of course, another hard-fought 
cliffhanger, but referee John Gettchel may j 
actually have decided the contest. With 
the score 0-0 and Tech driving, Gettchel 
told the Tartans to ignore the scoreboarcj 
which indicated fourth down and that i^ 
was actually third down. Carnally, on his 
own 47, sneaked the ball through the line 
for a few yards, but not enough for a first 
down. Gettchel then, in probably one of 
the worst officiating blunders in college 
history, decided that it had been fourth 
down and awarded the ball to the Irish, 
who moved for the only touchdown of the 
day. Carnegie Tech, unable to get back 
continued on page 17
PAC-8 MVP'S Chosen
mOiSlDÛZ
A great «»ay of Me
versity Horned Frogs, boasting one of the 
finest teams ever assembled in the South­
west Conference, in Tulane Stadium in 
New Orleans. The event was the Sugar 
Bowl.
Head Coach Bill Kern’s 1937 Tech 
squad had accumulated the particulary dis­
mal record of 2-5-1. However, with the 
strongest group of freshmen in years com­
ing up to join a varsity which included stars 
such as halfbacks George Muha, Merlyn 
Condit, quarterback Ray Carnally and ends 
Karl Striegal and Mel Cratsley, hopes were 
high on campus for an outstanding season. 
In some opinions, even the radical idea of a 
championship was not ignored.
The team looked better and better as 
the season approached. Jac Esser, editor of 
the TARTAN sports page, boldly predicted 
a three-touchdow victory over Carnegie’s 
first opponent, Davis & Elkins. It turned 
out to be quite an exercise in conservatism, 
as the Tartans ground out eight scores in
Jeff Beer the PAC-8 offensive “Most 
Valuable Player” for ‘78, as well as the pas­
sing and total offense leader - repeated as 
the signal-caller on this year’s squad, after 
leading the loop in passing with nearly 12 
completions/game and total offense, with
176.9 yards/game.
Joining Beer on the first offensive unit 
is his favorite target, wide-receiver Denny 
Williams, the PAC-8 receiving leader for 
‘79 with an average of five catches/game. 
Much to the dismay of rival coaches, this 
Bison aerial duo will be back in ‘80, as 
both are juniors.
The Bisons also led all loop clubs, as 
three BC performers were named to the 
first-team defense, in end John Tritschler, 
iineback Rick Villani, and defensive back 
Greg Ulasiewicz. Ironically, not a single 
Bison gained a first-team defensive berth 
a year ago, as Beer was the loan West 
Virginian named AII-PAC-8.
Thiel, which eventually played CMU in 
a season-ending title showdown for the ‘79 
PAC-8 grid crown, had a quartet of first- 
team representatives.
Sophomore Ron Leuschen — who dis­
played signs of greatness a year ago — blos­
somed in ‘79, as he paced the loop in rush­
ing with nearly 120 yards/game, while 
placing as runner-up in the scoring derby 
with 70 points. For his efforts, Leuschen 
was picked as the league’s “Most Valuable 
Offensive Player.”
The other Tomcat named to the first- 
offensive unit is back Mark Benedetto, 
a senior who was second in the circuit in 
receiving with 3.2 catches/game, while end 
Paul Fiore and lineman Mark Trimmer, a
pair of juniors, were named to the top 
defensive squad for Thiel, the loop’s 
top-ranked defensive contingent in ‘79.
Both John Carroll and Washington
& Jefferson had one player each named to 
the first-team offensive and defensive 
clubs.
Prexie offensive lineman A1 Ridenour, 
and defensive lineman Greg Glusica — a 
repeater from the ‘78 first-team defense — 
were selected. Both are seniors.
The John Carroll duo includes tight-end 
Tom Cornell, who hauled in better than 
two catches/game, and defensive lineman 
Bill Berth. The Blue Streak tandem are 
juniors.
Allegheny and Case Western Reserve 
also had two performers picked for first- 
team honors, though both of the Gators 
were defenders, while the Spartans had one 
player named to the offense and one other 
defensively.
Junior lineman Dave Sedmak and senior 
back Bill Law — one of the loop leaders in 
pass interceptions — were the two Gators 
to be selected to the first-team defense, 
while offensive lineman Eric Hall, a junior, 
and senior Iineback Andy Katz — repre­
senting Case Western Reserve’s Spartans — 
round out the ‘79 squad.
Katz, a first-team defensive performer in 
‘78 as well, won the honor as the loop’s 
“Most Valuable Defensive Player” by vote 
of the league coaches.
From the 22 performers selected to 
first-team status, 10 will return for 1980, 
making the Presidents’ Athletic Conference 
grid race, potentially, even more exciting 
than 1979.
ENGINEERING DEGREE 
TO WORK
If you’re a degree candidate who would like 
to embark on a future-oriented scientific or 
engineering career, then consider the United 
States Air Force. It’s one of the finest oppor­
tunities in the nation.
Completion of our three-month Officer 
Training School nets you an officer’s com­
mission and launches you into a career 
that’s geared for tomorrow. Our equipment 
is among the finest, our working condi­
tions are excellent, and our benefits pack­
age unmatched. Find out about a space 
age service from your nearest Air Force 
recruiter.

---------------------------------------------------

NAME (SCHOOL) POS. HT. WT. CLASS HOMETOWN
Jeff Beer (B) QB M 180 Jr. Coraopolis
Ron Leuschen (T) B 5-10 180 So. Erie
Bob Gasior (CMU) B 5-10 190 Sr. Pittsburgh
Mark Benedetto (T) B 5-10 180 Sr. SharpsviUe
Denny Williams (B) WR 6-3 185 Jr. Wellsburg, W. V
Tom Cornell (JCU) TE 6-3 220 Jr. Chicago, I
Don Kaminski (CMU) L 6-0 225 Sr. Pittsburgh
Joe Goldcamp (CMU) L 6-2 210 Jr. Pittsburgh
Gary Matz (CMU) L 64) 205 Sr. Elizabeth
Eric Hall (CWRU) L 6-1 200 Jr. Cleveland, Oh
Ai Ridenour (W&j) L 6-2 220 Sr. Apollo
PAC-8 All-Star warn far 1979.______________________________________
ala sja kL «1/ ^ «1« «1^ «i# kk ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ »i» ^1^^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 'j' 'J' *T* v 'P «T* 'r v 'r 'r* * 
£ THE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE *
* ' ANNOUNCES ITS *
OFFENSE-FIRSTTEAMDEFENSE-FIRST TEAM
HT. WT. CLASS HOMETOWN NAME (SCHOOL)POS.HT.WT.CLASSHOMETOWN
M 180 Jr. Coraopolis Bill Berth (JCU)L5-8175Jr.Port Monmouth, NJ.
5-10 180 So. Erie Mark Trimmer (T)L6-4215Jr.Bridgeville
5-10 190 Sr. Pittsburgh Greg Glusica (W&J)L5-10200Sr.Unkmtown
5-10 180 Sr. SharpsviUe Dave Sedmak (A)L6-0205Jr.McMurray
6-3 185 Jr. Wellsburg, W. Va. Paul Fiore (T)E5-10190Jr.North Babylon, NY.
6-3 220 Jr. Chicago, 111. John Tritschler (B)*: £5-10215Sr.Library
6-0 225 Sr. Pittsburgh Andy Katz (CWRU) 
6-2 210 Jr. Pittsburgh Rick Viliam (B)
LB6-1205Sr.West Caldwell, NJ.
LB5-11190Sr.Kttsburgh
6-0 205 Sr. Elizabeth Gus Senseri (CMU)B5-11175Sr.Pittsburgh
6-1 200 Jr. Cleveland, Ohio Bill Law (A)B6-0175Sr.McKeesport
6-2 220 Sr. Apollo Greg Uiasiewicz (B)
v: .____________——-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
B5-10180Sr.Steubenville, Ohio
1st ANNUAL 
STUDENT PHON-A-THON
TO BENEFIT
CMU ANNUAL FUND
• Funds raised to be used for student needs •
ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS ARE INVITED 
TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS WORTHWHILE, 
EXCITING PROJECT WHICH WILL BENEFIT 
ALL WHO TAKE PART.
PRIZES WILL BE AWARDED
Phon-A-Thon to take place:
January 7-10 
January 14-17
PIZZA & BEVERAGES FROM 6:00 - 6:45 p.m. 
TELEPHONE BEGINS AT 7:00 UNTIL 9:00 p.m.
If your group of 20 is interested contact - 
KIM SUSKO x2020 5th Floor Warner Hall
REGISTER 
BEFORE DECEMBER 17! ! ! !
CAMPUS STORES’ CORNER
HOW YOU CAN WIN
All correct entries from each week will be 
placed in a box. Fourteen names will be 
drawn. The 14 winners will draw for prizes 
at random.
The drawing will be held on Friday, Decem­
ber 14, 1979 at 3:00 PM in the Bookstore.
The prizes may be picked up before 5:00 
PM December 18.
Alternate winners will be drawn after that 
time.
emu bookstore
!>5SSgg8SSS8SSSSgSSSSSSSSSSS^SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS8SSSS!SSSSiSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS8SSSSæSSSSSSSSSS888SS8SSSS8|
— “ ~ CAMPUS CONVENIENCE {CMU TRAVEL OFFICECALL 578-2921
!sS3SSSS'S<SSSS®3aSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSKIBO 40Asssssssss
Dame should have been proud to beat them/
 .........................................................................................-------------------------------- --------—----- --------------------------------------- becember 11, 1979-TARTAN-Page 17
continued from page 16
into the game, took its first loss, 7-0.
Lightly-regarded Akron was a likely foe 
to bounce back against but although Tech 
did, 27-13, the Zippers proved tough. They 
hung in against the Tartans at 13-13 until 
the last eight minutes, and the final score 
was not a good indication of the game’s 
overall nature.
The entire season was wrapped up in the 
following game on November 8: the de­
fending national champion Pitt Panthers vs. 
the rising, but still unproven Carnegie Tech 
Tartans, in the annual test of a bitter 
cross-city rivalry.
Baugh’s comments may have already in­
dicated the outcome to the reader. The 
Tartans took a 14-10 halftime lead behind 
George Muha’s sixth touchdown of the 
season. They held off the Panthers during 
the second half and iced the game on a 
touchdown pass to end Karl Striegal. The 
underdog Tartns had a 20-10 win and
national acclaim.
For the rest of the season the CIT de­
fense was immaculate, although its offense 
didn’t slouch either. Intra-city Duquesne 
fell, 21-0, and a trip south (which wasn’t 
the Tartans last of the season, as it turned 
out) resulted in a 14-0 shutout of North 
Carolina State. Tech had cmpleted a 7-1 
record, outscoring its opponents 17049
while shutting out three of them. It re­mained to see what the rest of the country
thought of Carnegie Tech.
Carnegie was ranked from second to 
sixth in the polls, and received several feel­
ers for bowl games. It chose the toughest, 
but also the best, when it agreed to meet 
the undefeated Horned Frogs of Texas 
Christian University in the Sugar Bowl on 
New Year’s Day.
The 10-0 Frogs had just won their third 
consecutive Southwest Conference crown, 
rolling up a 28-5 record in the process. 
They were led by All-America quarterback
Davey O’Brien, who had completed 55.7% 
of his passes while picking up 1509 yards 
and 19 touchdowns during the season.
Tech headed to New Orleans with two 
ECAC All-Stars in Carnally and tackle Don 
Campbell in its midst, City, County, and 
Lambert Tropies under its belt, and a 
Coach-of-the-Year, Bill Kern, at its head. 
All that stood to be accomplished was to 
defeat TCU and thus become national 
champion.
January 1 arrived, and with it the largest 
Sugar Bowl crowd to that time. Included 
was a horde of Carnegie Tech rooters who 
had taken advantage of a special Sugar 
Bowl excursion, and who hoped not to be 
dissapointed after their journey.
The first half gave no, or very little, 
reason for doubt. Though the Frogs 
cracked the scoreboard first on a run by 
Connie Sparks, the conversion attempt was 
missed. Tech then came back on a pass 
from Moroz to Muha, and with Carnally’s
extra point led 7-6 at the half.
The All-American O’Brien took control 
after the intermission. However, he engin­
eered a touchdown drive, throwing for the 
score, and then clinched the contest by 
booting a field goal TCU was later voted 
the national champion.
Grantland Rice, the eminent sports- 
writer of the day, called the 15-7 battle the 
“game of the year.” O’Brien said later that 
Carnegie was “the toughest team we have 
met.”
Shortly afterward, Carnegie Tech de- 
emphasized football, instituting a small­
time schedule. Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, 
and Michigan State no longer clashed with 
the Big Red. But the many trophies from 
those days, still on display in the school’s 
gymansium, serve as reminders of the most 
not-so-distant days of a Tech football 
powerhouse, and of the Sugar Bowl team 
that almost made it all the way.

---------------------------------------------------

aSP*"”
/ M Minty Ham, Happy 19th birthday!ToTheR.A.s:
HAPPY HOLIDAYS! jQ
From CLAUDIA, JOHN,
X » Foti, remember Saj + sex = drugsJERRY.
/Linda — A New Years Resolution: 3 
miles by March 1. Go For It! -Michael
Hey Paula: I hear you have a Secret Admirer!
The Hill and The Holidays — the per­
fect 'combination' Happy Holidays 
from The Donner Mailmen — Jeff, 
Mark, Roger.Happy Hanukah, Cookie Monster!
Love, Cute & Skinny """J
Anita, Aja and Dana,Meg: Have a wild time in Flordia -but Cou)d yQU pasj th# beef j#fky, *
don't forget about Steve. —Donna
Mangia!!!—this one's for Frank,any 
takers?8ull Winkle: Just out of curiosity — Do
those horns ever get in the way. Donna This ^ ,ove>>This js Rock Ro|n
We love you D.D.D.
— Pledges of Alpha-TauThere is sea weed clogged in my ear. 
There's a joker in this deck!—  ............—
Really. . . Oh yeah!. . . I wonder why?
Amy: See, I said I would!
~ Dear Harpo, How can I get through Lit Signed, Henry V.j
and Rep without you?? Don't go!Cast of Best of Sodies:
5D Devils, Don't forget no hipchecking Break a Leg! — the Board,{
in the halls no dealing in the lounge.—Whale TIGER — G.Q. called. . . needs model 
with girlfriend and terminal illness. . . go for it!
Half the world is white and free Wanted; blonde eyes, blue hair, partner
The other half is SAE. for bondage and S&M —Twisted mind.-3919 (Bev)Mudge, hope you enjoy the bait as
much as we did - McGill Hey MeM S,ur and GurtV loved rt! Youanimal! Keep up the good work —
Are you through yet, well let's get it Scobell 3rd floor
over with your roommateTom and Gabe — you guys are a panic.
Celeste, Have you blown any bowls j lately?
James, You stink worse than anything! 
I know. Your Roommate ;
J.B., May you get 100 cans ofLysol to 
rid yourseif of that odor.
Jim Bob wants a "A" in studio.
Christmas in NH with a cat that drools 
(sound familiar?). Snowy Dec. 27 Christmas eve!!!
Marci—Have fun next semester, hope 
you find what you want .
A secret admirer
Send UNICEF cards this X-MAS 
Available at United Nations Assoc. 
121 University Place (Physicains Bldg.) 
Pgh. 681-4555
Sort of? It was fun anyway!
Elise, Kathy. Theresa, Lauren, Libby. 
Anne: Maria, Noreen: DG love it's
eight (reindeer) pledges!!
Big Brother— Your backrubs are great-j 
even if you'd rather stare into "your: 
drawers”, Lilsis-
To my favorite doctor to be-Merry 
Christmas, or whatever! from your 
favorite Kwetch
...classified. 
Christmas 
information...
„GEE LOUIS CEE, WHAT'S CLEAR DRUNK? (HINT. - IT'S NOT GO- 
81 BUBBLY AND GETS YOU ING OUT OF STYLE - ) SUM JERK
The Jew from Jersey says: 
Rapport."
'Deport ;
BURN TECH HOUSE 
BURN TECH HOUSE 
BURN TECH HOUSE
BURN DUFFEE: 
BURN DUFFEE: 
BURN DUFFEE:
To the second floor. 
Punk you!!DuffeeLove and leather. 
The third floor
Fish, will you whip me on the dance 
Tech House floor this Christmas.
I just wanted to talk to my friend Bill, 
I'm not bothering you.
To Kathy, Eileen, Dawn, Stella and 
Marsha, Not tonight — we have head­
aches! Carol and Anne !
McGill gone fishing without the My Gweedle,Two years isn't enough. You still!BAIT.
Mech E'sdo it isothermally.
heat my BVD's.
Tenderly, Boogie
Spotted Cheek. I want to make 
noises in your ear. I love you...a lot.
235 light. How about a little whoopie 
now? No more huck-bucking!!
Hi Patty 8i Rae I'm going to miss you 
I at Christmas Socrates
j To 5-C, the place to be: Happy
Holidays from the short Sophomore.
To Barbie-Q: Merry Xmas. Can you] 
say that? Sure, sure you can. Roomie!
My aborted daughter-stand guard by] 
the mistletoe; it'll ensure a great time. 
Merry Xmas. Momj
To B. and D. from SAE... I Knooow!;
Bether, I hope the spring semester last* 
forever too!! Hey, ya know!!
Love always-Aprilj
Good Luck with Finals and Happy 
Holidays to 4, 5 and 6, D Tower.- Your R.A.
Wanted — One garbage truck for 
three EE majors wishing to change 
careers. Contact Dave, 555-1212
There's nothing wrong with Chem 
E's that death couldn't cure. —
A chemist
% V
Kappa: Only Santa can tell the
good girls from the bad, and he's *5^ not tellina. +not telling.
Mary Jo — He's such a good boy. ^%
“'love him.” r ' 'm 'i
Gee Steve, That sure is a neat wayto raise flies. ?y. e0V %>
CSK —Sometimestalk and a
smile is all it takes to feel better.
Cindy, Hope you feel better soon.
V\ 
%>• 
v; \ x,
e
SA
GATE — Rust may never sleep **/
but we sure wish it would take a 
nap.
f°
'»«y,,
Guy with the green jacket—Why 
do you have to be a senior?MH: I will deliver. Be patient, not 
foul. — Linda Letterhead.
Toenails, remember the moon, remem­
ber the night we smoked cigars!
Three weirdos
Tuscon Otis, Hey ya know... 
I'm going to miss terribly!! 
Love your 'Tomato Cheek ie'
To the Burpers, You're all unbe-J 
leivable! What a joy it is being your^ 
>r April <
Ray-cool ,er, Cookie,er, silly bear, er. 
New York, er, drawing, er... Love April
Hey Steadman, Here's to Nu Phi Nu! j 
You crazy Bronxite hee hee!
Love Cassolasl
Radiation Project Peopl«*: It's been- 
great, but I'm glad it's over. Keep" 
your gonads shielded!
Doctor, I am bigger than the opening] 
of your dreams. Loisj
Tall, blonde female requires tall,| 
dark, handsome friend. Call EE for 
screenings.
Wanted: A muzzle for McGhee. Heavy! 
duty, king size required. Money is no [ 
object.
To the third window from the end: 
Thanks for "Keeping it up” this 
I Spanky
Happy holidays to all of my hard­
working fellow petty bureaucrats — 
CMS 79.
Merry Christmas to the sisters of Nu 
Phi Nu and Happy Birthday to Soror 
Steadman.
Architects — Merry Christmas to all, 
and to all a good, long, night -of sleep.
Michelle
Bolivian Bill, someday your smart re­
marks will ruin my chances. But I 
still love you. B.
Doug: You just wait. You're going to 
get it yet. —AV
Oh FOOLish one, is she CUTE or just 
as NAIVE as you. She loves you!
KLUTZ, I know now that good things 
come in small packages. Luv ya',Joe Snipe
Karl and Carl, Merry Christmas, Happy 
New Year! We Love You! —Rose and 
Sherri
Larry, I'm sure you're a wonderful 
person. Hope we can get together soon.
B.
Meg Durkin, Merry Christmas. Love 
you just the way you are — Pat
Winston Thomas, I still need a man. 
And you are still the one I want!
Merry Xmas Julie Anne!I! Love, Bruce, 
Al Pacino, and Dustin "AE" Hoffman.
Steve Rubell, Kiss my ass! Death to 
disco - Led Zeppelin lives! Got 
Henry Stoned?
PSS — We've got to get together to 
talk. I still care, do you? —AJV
Chris — You are beautiful, I love you.
—Phil (Mic-key Mouse)

---------------------------------------------------

Theta pledges are the greatest. 
—Debbie, Nan, Nancy, Tracy, Sue, 
Dotti, Nana, Brenda, Jodi, Karen.
Eugene, Got your key.
McGill 200
To Ballay, Kelly, and Mentzer, m 
May your holidays be filled witn[ 
cubes, blobs, and elipses.
With Love, 
Design 1, Sec B
V# V#
Nina, I've got two tickets to paradise- 
round trip to Peking Bruce
What do Nancy, Carol (Chatam), 
Joanie, and, Mrs. Garrity have in com­
mon? Marks Johnson
Nina, How can you love him when he 
takes you for a fool? Schaff
Wanted: An abused rickshw that ges 
WAMO and c^n take me to the MM 
Apartments.
Wanted: Unmarried mother to be
adequate to my needs. Prefer empty 
squeeze box. Fish
To the guys in Roselawn 12 Smegma!!
Mang, dear- Different? Altogether!
But variety is lifes greatest spice. 
Merry Christmas, sugar!
I love Miss Piggy!!!!
D.G.'s, Good Luck on finals! Don't 
dispair break is almost here. Love Mark
Sophmore Chem E's is it sti!l really 
worth it?
Dear M, I'll miss you Christmas Eve.
All my love M.M.
Dear Dud, I'm not the dud you are.All my love Dud
L,I,MJ—Congratulations on the show. 
Remember, we are four each other. B.
LOSY— a Tri Delt sorority pin DDD 
REWARD! If found, please call Barb 
x 5957.Stud—"What a fool believes, "I'll have 
a blue Christmas without you and Ben.S.J.
Everyone—try Americas newest driving 
sensation—have a B & P today.
Congratulations MEAN GATE MATZ— 
Winner of the Inland Trophy for the 
second straight year!!!
Tracy & Russ: Merry
all of us!
Dear MMA Guitar-De-Amplify
Birthday Gary Matz (two days 
, You, too Ron!
Bert, We know what you do in 
your single — Nothing!!Andrea & Chanette
Goofey — I love you! Love, too 
much. P.S. Merry Christmas!
I still hope you get kicked .A Friend
Joe, When is it my turn? Mark
Susannah, You still taste good!Love, Mark
I want your body! ASecret Admirer
Eat Moose Gong. Jim Bob does and 
loves it.
Celeste and Mikey: Please go to
Florida J.J.B.
.G. Merry Christmas!
Rome Was Not Built In Tokyo.—Louis Sauer
Dear Miss B,
The brook rushes by too fast.
Love, J—Wad
H&SS: Your mother was a hamster 
and your father smelled of elder 
berries. Signed, CIT
Goose-
Let bygeese be bygeese. OK?
Love, Goosey
Shut up. Rose!
Signed, A Junior EE
MJS: I love you and need you very 
much; please come back.With love — JWB
Flash Basto and Dr. Narco 
Specialists in Iron and Steel. Call 
578 - JUNK.
To the Beautiful Blonde-Hair, Blue­
eyed, British Chem-E Junior, You 
have a Secret Admirer!
You were right, they do sell locks in 
the booksore. Maybe, someday we'll 
meet again.
Two chefs desperately need $8.00 mix­
ing bowl! Contact Lu or Les.
Dr. Rich,
Enjoyed your company...again.
Anne—Roommate, Dear. Gasp is mine!
Attention all muggers. Mug off!
T. Edgar - You're terrific - Merry 
Christmas Love Shorty
Hill - Good luck in the real world!AMP 8t NAM
Hey third floor! When's my punk bath 
initiation?
Merry ChristmasYoung Lou
Jen and Mary—Merry Christmas from 
last year's roomie.
Steve—Sorry we slugged you in the 
arm. Love, Blindie and PAP's big sis
To all flying buffaloes, may your 
hooves never drag on take off.Bobette Chevette—Holiday Greetings
Bobette Chevette—Merry Christmas 
from last year's roomie.
Suzy-Q: Smile!! 
Nancy-You're a great buffalo.AMP
DC. What's the maximum amount of 
sleep one person can have? Just won­
dering AMP
D.C.—Merry Christmas to a good lab 
partner. -AMP
Phil, Thanks for the wrench. It was a 
nice present. Nam & AMP
3Z—I still love you—signed your "invisible little sister."
Dave Robinson — 
Mercy Christmas!Love, Spot
Craig-Merry Christmas: Love, Your heathen
T.H.—Don't forget January 26! G.C
T. Stence—Really?? Love, Triple D
L.H.— Here's to another (1980) of 
sleeping together. Chinchilla
ToS.B. They're all the same.
Chem. E's: 
You suck.The senior Chemists
Dear Sue:You stink at teaching accounting. You 
are the worst.
Dear Yog:
That was one heck of a sucker bite. 
Half your face?
IGNAPS
Ron:
To hell with rabbits and dogs, what 
you need is a good sheep.
Doctor:
You have just been chosen to receive 
the Masengill Douche of the year 
award.
KR:
You still have the perfect body. RK
Sue:
Sit on my face.Doctor
Jenny:
East Coast girls are hip under the 
boardwalk. T8iR
Carrie:
Why were giggling at 3 AM? Ron
Sigmund:
Are you Phallically fixated? Chris 
Mean Gate:
We vote you load of the week—every 
week.
Chris:
Are you orally fixated? Sigmund
Drugs:
What is 69? Will he shave again? P-1
Reuel Buddy—A stud like you belongs 
in California, you weanling.
MCD—I love you—GFM
MCD—He's a liar.—John and Ron
Doctor, your sensuous touch left me 
writhing in ecstasy last night. Thanx.
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year 
to all Tri-Deltas. Love your pledges
For a good time this X-Mas, everyone 
come visit!! Love, Blupers
Merry Christmas to my favorite down! 
Join me at the health spa this X-mas.
April, we can't stand obnoxious 
people like you!! Quit please, 6-B-5
To Chris and Mary,
I love you! Merry X-mas!
Signed, me
Greetings Beth Sotace. Delightful 
dear, dashing, darling days this season. 
Love, Chris, Mary and Cindy.
Pappas, I love you. Can I pull your 
finger this jolly holiday season?
Love, Beautiful
Everyone get Cheesy this Christmas!! 
Mary you won't have to work hard at 
that!!
Harv-the rabbits of the world love you!
Merry Christmas Larry and Sue—Cindy
Do you want to save the starving 
whale? Send food to :
"Bill the Whale" 3-B-2 MG
Linda: But what would our parents 
think? Does it matter? —Michael
Scobeilites-do cubes!The B-9 Poet
T ri-delts:
Did you ever get your pass?
Sheep, do it with you fez on!
To find guilt, walk in and turn right! 
But don't open the window!
At night, all cats are black.
If you open the window, give me 
another blanket, Anglo-Saxon you!
A day without Phys. Mech. is like a 
day with sunshine.
The Glass Cube lives!
I want my copy camera!
Berger Bites the big one!
Artcrap sucks.
Qay—shots of J.D.? Your ex
Star Trek is here, phaser the Space 
Beasties.
Cmutants do it in the future.
Flush twice: it's a long way to Skibo.
Happy Holiday to all my friends and 
don't forget cut loose over Christmas 
break. Chuck F.
A special holiday with to Adrienne S., 
Brenda C. Laura A., Nancy P. and 
Andy E. from your friend.
Chuck F.
Stan Cramina wishes all you disco boys 
and girls an end to disco in 1980.
Signed, Led Zep
Lynda—Let's go canoeing during 
Christmas. Love, David
Sophomore Illustrators:
Do it all night, every night.
To the GFI's:
Happiness, smiles and a red room await 
us all.
Sammy—Happy Belated!
Love Ziggy and Puppy
Boobi—I Lovs your smile.
Dear Robina—Happy 21st.
Much
Chem Lab 09-109-ADA, TPD, BGG, 
BS, SPE, INS, PVB all FUBAR
Dear Selene,It's in.Love, Jamie
JA—I'll never spike you again. You 
made my day—Kiddo.
Roger J—Friends are friends and pals 
are pals but we'll never be buddies! K
Cara Pedro, mi amor, Fetiz Navidad y 
un Prospero Ano Nuevo! (How's 
that?) Love, Jane
Merry Christmas Sorors of* Alpha 
Kappa Alpha. Ske-wee!
. ..EH-WIC.. .Love 2-D-5

---------------------------------------------------

Merry Christmas to 6-B-5. Love, Jeff 
Chutack, Resident Stud.
Denise. Merry Christmas, Minnie. Glad 
to see that our manners have rubbed 
off on you. 6-B-5
Paul, have a merry Christmas. Unlike 
"Black Sunday". Thanks for every­
thing, friend. Love, Mary
Edelle — Merry Christmas from Chrissy, 
Mary, and Cindy.
Merry Christmas to everybody with 
eyelashes.
Dear Brad, Will I ever discover all of 
your hidden talents?
Love, You know who
Dear "Flying Circus": Hey guys — have 
a nice Christmas!
Love, Your littlest little sister
Sung, hope Santa brings some high 
heels! J.K. Love, us!
Mary, please burpfor me this Christmas!
Love Cindy
We have nothing to say. (6-B-5). We are 
shy, quiet, and reserved. Merry X-mas
Merry X-mas Dizzy!Love 6-B-5
Merry X-mas Pika from your three 
elves!!
Merry x-mas McCaff, from the blond- 
bomber from Bama.
B-1 Doherty: Ask Santa to clean your 
bathtub...
Merry Christmas early morning anxiety! 
Have one for me!! Love, C.
When you are eating your pumpkin 
pie, think of our guts! Love, P.G.
Sung, darling will you twist with me 
this Christmas. Love, Cindy
Laurie: You're the greatest big sis. 
Thanks for everything.
Theta Love & mine, Nancy
Cindy — The movie was good, but not 
half as good as the company. (I know: 
I'm over my compliment limit)
Aud: Merry Christmas Little Sis.
Love, Nancy
Ar! Youn know why I'm buying a 
leather jacket? Because I love cows!
Signed, Bruce
Merry Christmas 155 Baker Hall!
Signed, the Nunchaku Kid
Merry x-mas Ray's Pizza! 11th street 
and 6th avenue. New York City.
Sincerely, AE
Reggie: Keep practicing and you'll 
soon be awesome with the sticks!
signed, Bruce Lee
300 Japanese night sticks? Uh, no 
problem! Mike will take care of it!
AE: You're the only one who ever 
plays me right! Love and ?, The Piano
God so loved the world. He gave His 
only Son. Whoever believes has 
eternal life.
I don't know why I'm so cute!
Love, me
My dear sweet kind loving wonderful 
Robert—I love you.
Nancy
Slade—Hope you have a "Mary" 
Christmas
Alice, I love your Peter Frampton Hair.
A close secret admirer.
Hey Sharon Jaffe and Suzanne Suzan- 
naadanna: Hope you have a really 
happy belated birthday!
J.M.
XI live in a 3-story 
South Bronx and, OK, I committed
bestiality...
I luv you Valerie Bertinelli! Best 
wishes and Merry x-mas, signed.The Marathon Man
Girls! III give ya somethin' that Santa 
can't! Deformed little Dwarfs! Love 
always, Donny Osmond
To Kevin on 3-E: Hi there Sailor! 
Wanna make it? Love The N.Y.C. Fag
Merry x-mas Kim E. — Only the GOOD 
die young! Love,Your boyfriends roommate
Dear Short Hills, You're a delectible 
fox!!!!!! Love, The Piano Man
Merry Christmas to the foxy chik who 
always watches TV in MG. Love,
Serpico
To Mary Francis: What are ya on? 
Phenobarbitols??? You are kramba- 
mina Parcheldus. Love, The Zep
I love you Julie! AJ and JA — June 24, 
1979 — Watch out cutie!! Love,
Andrew J.
Joseph, Merry x-mas from the 3 girls 
who are built like no others.
Nice hat, Maureen.
Nice hat, Cynthia L.
Chrissy, here's to the early new years 
party! Another crazy time to look foward to.
Edelle from 6B: Happy Holidays. 
Thanks for tolerating us. Love, no. 5
Mark B.: Do you have any objections? 
Visit us three floors up...
Joan "RA": Get married so we can 
drink on bur floor. Thanks. 6-B-5
John Campbell: Burp! Merry X-mas 
from Charlie's Angles. Kiss.
If anyone gets popped by a frat boy 
over the holidays... I apologize.
Phil (Scott) Have fun with Jane over 
Christmas. Me
December girls make the best lovers— 
5, 13,22,22.
For a Good Time come to 2-D jungle.
dp dvdtdvdudtdsdt. Can you see? 
Huh?
Mindy and Lisa:
Thanks for your listening ears, open 
hearts and lit joints.
Moose and Mark—Have you solved 
the "CASE" of the missing letters?
Spike and Jen
Beta, now we know where to have a 
party next time. SAE has a pub.
To my boyfriend.
Let's go to Cyprus someday.
Love,
from your boobified girlfriend
Kevin, Bret, the Herd and the Family: 
Have a good Christmas and New Year.
Nancy
Mech E. Senior Design is an un­
pleasant fiction of your imagination— 
it's not really there.
Hey Pika, can we play four-square and 
sit on the wall with you. From 5 B.
To "M & M": Just you, me, and Croce, 
babe. I love you! Forever, "M.O.."
Margie, Happy holidays! Love Cindy.
Burp! Burp! Burp! Burp! Burp! Burp! 
Burp! Burp! Burp! Merry X-Mas! Love,
3 crazy girls.
My name is Sev, a load and whale. 
Nuke me!
Mo's the biggest-------on campus.
Ann N.—d------it, I love you.
I want your Mellons, Carnegie! Best 
Wishes, The Wawa Market Man
Merry x-mas Lori! You never know 
who I might meet! Together! AE
OK Pal! Campus Police! Lem me see 
some identification, or I'll blow you 
away! Love, Clint
Duane: You pillar of Academia! From 
AR and AE, Inc. Proffessional 
Historians
For Sale: 3 well-behaved Fu Bears. 
Warning! do not scold them in Public! 
Call x-4795
Wanted: One Armenian for fun, and 
frolic. Inquire at Giant Eagle, Oakland
Sex and Drugs and Rock and Roll! 
Pink Floyd loves you, Mr. Biv!!
(Greg C.)
Hey Disco Lovers! Long Live Rock !!!! 
Jimmy Page, Hendrix, Townshend, 
Howe, and Eddie Van Halen.
Merry x-mas Barb! If he calls again. I'll 
see that he gets many collect calls.
Hi Guys! Greek boys never leave their friends behind! Firmly, the Staff at 
Ramrod's
Uh, 63 Free Classifieds? No problem! 
It's on AE! Thanx Cack!
Signed, The Stringling Man
Listen Pal! Staten Island sucks but it's 
better than Pittsburgh!
Signed, A Native New Yorker.
To Dean, Chris, Greg, Paul, and the 
Ax-Murderer: Thanks for the Mam- 
meries! Love, Andy
Sally-you Ho!
From: Ho no. 1, Ho no. 2, Ho no. 3
Mopsy's Christmas presents: Unbreak­
able dinnerware, quiet croutons, and 
nailfiles that won't drive her roommate crazy.
Flopsy's Christmas presents: ORANGE 
Snoopy bags, a new band uniform, and 
her very own stapler.
Perry, I'm asking Santa for a dance 
with you!! Love, Cindy
Levy, We will send you mail this x-mas 
— maybe! 6-B-5
Merry Christmas Argh — Love, Kanga
Fish — we'd make a great team, like 
Redford and Striesand. Merry x-mas, 
love, a friend
Merry Christmas to Rotty and Scronnie, 
Love Cindy
There's a joker in this deck!
To the GDI's on 3-E — You're so 
obnoxious, you make the frats appeal­
ing.
Reuel Buddy,
You're under investigation by the 
society for prevention of cruelty to 
grovers.
To the tri-Delt pledges,
Bev — You're a flake.
JAB — You're a Stinker, but I still love 
you. Sue
Hey Stinker, you can tootle my 
"blanks" any time you want!! Goofy
Dear Sue, You're BeautimUs!
Love, JAB
NUKE LESTER
Joel, Let's Do "Nothing" together, 
O.K?.......You know.
If it's Chinese and it's illegal, I 
it and get it for less!!!
Henry! Your're hung like a wombat — 
Love, Your many conquests
Give it to me straight, Mitch — I can 
take it — Chutspa lives! i.ove, Kim
Rick, Just be yourself! Love and 
Kisses, The Imp Man.
Merry New Year Diane and Lori! Love, 
The Man With the Large Eyes!
Cupcake, this Christmas remember 
God loves you and so do I. Love and 
Kisses, Luscious
Thanks 'Ria!
Joe, Thanks for letting P.J. sleep with 
you. You were wonderful.
Tammy, Bill wants his kisses.
B.N., Have a warm wonderful 
Christmas! D.G. Love Hannah
Bergie, Thanks for everything. RS
Scott, I love your gold eyes!
Elise, Hang in there, and good luck 
on finals.
Brothers of Kappa Sigma — Merry 
Christmas with Love from "5" Little 
Sisters
Debby T. Merry Christmas and Happy 
New Year. Love your big sister
DEM: Miss our peanut fights... PKT 
isn't the same. Come back soon. Love,
Me
Libby, Noreen, Maria, Lauren, Anne, 
Kathy, Theresa, and Elise,
We love you!
Beatty — You have another secret ad­
mirer!!! Guess who? Merry Christmas
Troubled by Nerds? Call the Nerd 
Control Center x4299. This week's 
special: Pecksniffian pachypods.
Gee Cheryl, I don't know what to 
write! Leslie
Brenda, you old mush! It's something 
like that Rich
Dawn, you chill me all over. How 
about some warmth. Love,
The D.C. Fanclub
AHM. I love your green eyes. RST
Did you know a 2.8 qpa with AIESEC 
is the same as a 3.4?
B-fied — I love you —B-fier.
Kondo — Remember — Reality is the 
crutch for the people who can't handle drugs.
To our gay neighbors — We love you 
(sometimes).
Your gay neighbors
Doctor,
The patient needs a traichometry. 
Trake! Trake!
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CARA!
Good Luck!
You Are My Noer 
My Only Noer 
You Make Me Happy 
When Skies Are Gray
MJ. — Does he really have a hairy 
chest?
Doreen,
A lot of good luck next week on 
your finals. Love, Janet
Bennet Sleep at Home, signed 
Firestone (Harpo) P.S. How's the wall?
Season's Greetings to all from
DSL 1197
At the Xmas party, everyone was 
feeling merry, so Merry went home.
niirnif in tmnmmmm*

---------------------------------------------------

^-

---------------------------------------------------

Kappa Kappa Gamma and Chi Cmega 
John is a Jerk. G
Mary, Chrissy, Cindy — You booger- 
faces. We've got a better X-mas door 
than you, so HA!
T.K.: Mudge's Pretzel Fanatic—Hope
Santa brings tons of pretzels, a tree not 
for X-mas.
Happy Holidays to the pugilists at Beechwood Eight from a fellow 
sniveller and ringside observer.Audrey:Wishing you a M.C. and a front row 
spot in Rho's show. Good luck.Nancy
Michael:
Santa Claus already gave me the best 
present I could ever want. You!
Celeste
Pledge President of Tri Delts: 'The 
Door's Open But The Ride Ain't Free".
Somes drinks to remember, Somes to 
forget. Jassmo drinks to pass chemistry 
tests. —WhaleDrugs:
Your booties remind me of our many 
nights of slumbersom endeavor.
GFM
Thom: Think last year's got out of 
hand? We just bought an entire Jarls- 
burg. . . —E.F.C.
Merry Christmas DU,Zoink and Mazoink:
Have a holly, jolly Christmas. See 
ya soon:
Love—Loretta and Joan
Merry Christmas Bob and Betsy
John W.W2 When I think of joyful moments, 
I think of you! Merry Christmas. . .
Little Dick
To: Dave & Smokeman, Scott, Mark, 
Phil, Lester, Jamie, Mark, Bob
Ice fight at 10:30Casey,
Congratulations! You're batting a 
thousand. Merry Christmas.The Score Keeper
Tight:
Don't let that aspirin drop. Mom
Bill:
You're still sleazy—snide. SNOBS
LIVE ON!
For a good time call Loretta
Beau:
We should always be together. Thanks for the best times of my life.
Belle
Hi, twin brother! Love from your twin 
sister.Tight:
It will be the best week in your life 
if you act right.Happy Belated Birthday, Carol College, 
Nancy McLean and Joe Coco.
From the Mech E Mousea«5 JOIN!
THE * 
TARTAN
Kondo the Beta Stud - which Theta pledge is it now?Doctor, your luscious lips keep my 
fingers off the keys and in your pants.
- SecJersey Baby,
My mistletoe will always bek ready. j
Love, 9
your little pixie Jftg
STAFF!
NOW!
Kathy H.,
Santa J
Lets '
Even
Energetic Architects 
Pause for Christmas.
May yours be merry
Karen
Congratulations to Fuzzy and Fish, 
our honorary pin men!
Room Five Punkettes HJ 
Please Steeler Fans. Don't cry when 
the Steelers lose the Superbowl to the 
L Eagles.—*mrwnw*
Horshack:You have great lips.MATT IS A SLUT.
| Thank you, but no. jSecretary: Come practice your pen
strokes on me. — Doctor
Alis, Happy Early Birthday,
ChemistsMent, 'Tall", Lor, Pochi, Aim,
Nancy and Carolyn: 
We love you!Bruce — Something sentmentalDrugs:Sixty-nine is just fine.
Doc
Stroke: Your cocaine makes me throb.Your secret admirersLuch, I miss you and our long 
midnight talks on the stairs!
Love, MarkCarrie: You were blown out. — RJTHey Ted:
Semper Ubi Sub Ubi!P.P.F. — Your tolerance level is 
unsurpassed, your patience, un­
ending. Merry Xmas.Love, your "children"
A Friend
Dear Second Floor,
Good Girls don't, but we do! (don't forget it)!!
The Third Floor
Chris:I still have your socks,To Little D.C. 
Here's to you kid!!! 
The Philly Groove '
Monc, Awesome, Snow-Girl, 
Ment, 'Ta I", Lor, Pochi, Aim, 
JD, Jan, Juanee — Remember the 
Shaving Cream!Dear Mr. Derriere,
What's your name, baby? I love those sweats!
Hot-Blooded (Room Five)
Bruce—Something 
Before, during, and 
don't forget. Merry 
Love Nina
sentimental:
after-please
Christmas!Brian.. .Happy 2 years anniversary 
I love you.This Man is begging for his psycho­
logical life because he can't bear to live, trapped.. .
J® Mac! Mac! Rachel still loves you 
and Janice is fooling around with 
sexy Mitch and Iris didn't do it 
and, forget it.
ioe CW 
The p'ostnToo bad you're a commuter, Joyce cheaP®T'
Q: Are we not food? 
A: No, We are Skibo!
NEWSFLASH: Mono hits VirginiaTech3-D-3 and 2-C-10:
Roses are red,
Violets are blue.
We are the smoothest two
Merry Christmas Betsy — love Bob
Merry Christmas tri-Delts —love Bob
Handsome Devil! Attention. ..
Santa's giving you 80 Christmas 
candles this year in your stocking.
Lover
To be for—five E...
A Michael in a Beta tree
Merry x-mas Alex, McVay and 
McNight! You will be boked down, 
you bad little putzes!r ,07 —Mauled bVPoor Marty 107 Nia The poA
Farewell.>ll72in«h«,0tV0-6 and ,roup-M«.rV
l_ove, Buzzy
Christmas'.
DougWas Mary Ann O'Nan really ATO's 
original little sister?
Merry X-wbachelors!

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
classified ads
Beginning -female musicians, to form a
band with me. Into Stones. Jill De- 
Venuto, Circle Drive, RD-3, Box 132, 
Monroe, NY, 10950.
Need roommate for furnished apartment
¡n Highland Park. Immediate opening. 
Call Jeff at 362-8104.
Traveling to Bolder, Colarado, approx.
New Year's returning January 8. Want 
two passengers to share driving and ex­
penses. 362-7666.
Female roommate needed for beautiful
Shadyside apartment. Fireplace, w/w 
carpet, private bedroom, kitchen, bath­
room, living room—on busline. 661-1123.
Tire Chains—cleated. Used once, Fits
E,F—78—14 Tires. $30/offer. Rick, 
361-7454.
Ski Racks—Locking Barrecrafters Trunk
Mount, excellent condition, $30/offer.. 
Rick, 361 -7454.
clubs
?!
C
0
T
C
H
Tonight is the first night of Hanukkah.
Hillel has menorahs and candles for stu­
dents. Just stop by the Hillel office to 
p:ck them up.
Come to a Hanukkah/Havdalah candle
lighting Service at 5 PM on Sat. Dec. 15 
at Hillel House, 131 Margaret Morrison.
Program on missonaries & cults at 7 PM
on Mon. Dec. 17 at B'nei Emunoh Congre­
gation, 4315 Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill, 
featuring Rabbi Safran from Poale Zedeck 
and Scott Gould from the Anti-Missionary 
Institute.
There will be an Ice Cream Study Break on
Tues. Dec. 11 at 9 PM at Welch Hall, 
sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel.
Shabbat services and dinner begin at 5:30
PM on Fri. Dec. 14 at B'nai B'rith Hillel, 
315 S. Bellefield. Reservations should be 
made in advance by calling 621-8875.
official
Oakland Review, the CMU literary magazine,
is soliciting original poetry, prose, and art­
work for the 1979-80 issue. Work may be 
submitted to Oakland Review, Skibo 53, 
via campus mail or placed in our box behind 
the Skibo Information Desk. Deadline for 
submissions is February 29,1980.
Kiltie Band welcomes new members for
the concert season. All musicians are wel­
come; especially needed are clarinet play­
ers, flutists, etc. Anyone interested may 
join by attending practice sessions each 
Monday at 5:00 PM in the Wherrett 
Room.
Daily Mass is celebrated by the Roman
Catholic Chaplaincy (The Univ. Oratory 
Parish) Monday through Friday at 12:30 
PM in CMU's Chapel, Skibo 39. If your 
time is limited because of the lunch hour 
please feel free to eat your lunch first and 
still receive the Eucharist. We invite the 
campus community to come and join us.
The ORATORY'S ANNUAL CHRISTMAS
PARTY will be held on Friday, December
14 beginning with Mass at 6:30 at the 
Oratory (4040 Bigelow) followed by 
refreshments and dinner at Lombardozzi's 
Restaurant in Bloomfield at 8 PM. Reser­
vations are essential, call 681-3181.
An ADVENT COMMUNAL CELEBRA­
TION OF PENANCE AND RECONCILI­
ATION will be celebrated on Tuesday, 
Dec 11 at 8 PM in Heinz Chapel. This 
special Advent service, sponsored by the 
Roman Catholic Chaplaincy (University 
Oratory Parish), of scripture readings, 
song, repentance and reconciliation isopen 
to all interested persons.
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu­
manities and Social Sciences will have open
office hours for students on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.
Foreign Students and Visitors: If you hold
an F-1 visa and wish to travel outside of 
the USA during semester break, remember 
that you need an I-20 form to get back 
into this country. If you call me on Ext. 
2055 ahead of time, I will be glad to have 
the necessary I-20 ready for you to pick up 
in my office (Warner Hall 611). If you 
hold a J-1 (Exchange Visitor) visa, all you 
need is the pink copy of the IAP-66 form 
in order to travel.
general
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documen­
tation at Carnegie-Mellon University is pre­
senting a collateral exhibition on "Hand 
Bookbinding: Materials and Techniques." 
Many of the processes and materials invol­
ved in hand bookbinding will be represen­
ted in miniature. The show runs from Nov­
ember 12, 1979, to February 15, 1980, 
Monday through Friday, 9:00 AM to 5:00 
PM.
The Caliope house, Inc., is sponsoring
Tradition Irish and Appalachian Folk 
Music with Malcolm Douglas and Grey 
Larsen, also Traditional Blues and Jazz 
featuring Ted Bogan and Howard Arm­
strong on Friday, January 11 at 8 PM at 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Tickets are 
$8 and are available at the Semple Str. 
Food Co-op, Music Emporium, Sounds 
and Seeds, and Heads Together.
INNER BALANCE & HARMONY-a
lecture/discussion on how to have mental 
clarity and self-mastery in today's world, 
present by Frank Mascara. Thursday, 
Dec. 13 at 7:30 PM in University and City 
Ministries in Oakland. FREE.
-rrrrrrr--SJT"
Best of the Sodies
Thursday Dec. 13
>
The CMU Institute of Building Sciences
and the Western PA Solar Energy Associ­
ation will sponser their monthly meeting 
and a public lecture tonight (Tuesday, Dec.
11) at 7:30 PM in the Hunt Library Multi­
purpose Room. Mr. John Oster, Director 
of Research in Photovoltaics (Solar Cells) 
at Burt, Hill, Kosar, Rittelmann Assoc, in 
Butler will speak on the state of the art 
in photovoltaic electricity generation. 
Come to meet and talk with practitioners, 
educators, researchers and promoters of 
solar and other appropriate technologies. 
Find out how you can become involved in 
the futures brightest energy source. Future 
meetings, until May will be on the second 
Tuesday of each month, except January— 
in which it .will be on the third Tuesday. 
Look for future programs.
Get the Dean's List edge over your class -
mates. Comes. to the Communication 
Skills Center and for no fee whatsoever, 
we'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: resu­
mes, research papers, letters, applications, 
literature papers, rhetoric study, science 
assignments, and any other writing task 
you can think of.
Our Communication Skills Center, on 
the first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped 
with a library of writing books, exper­
ienced and eager staff, and writing lessons 
on the computer. To top all this, we have 
prime office space with a scenic view of the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus.
We are open Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the Comm. Skills Center.
Slippery Rock State College will be hold­
ing a symposium on Monday, December 
10th for students who are interested in at­
tending graduate school. There will be 20 
graduate schools represented at the sym­
posium, including CMU, University of 
Pittsburgh, Kent State, and West Virginia 
University. Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer of Parker/Hunter, 
Inc., David Hunter will give the keynote 
speech entitled "Why Graduate School." 
The symposium will be held from 10 AM 
until 1 PM in the Multi-Purpose Room of 
the Student Union. Everyone is welcome.
Self Defense classes for women of high
school age or older are being offered by 
the Feminist Karate Union beginning 
January 15, 16, and 19, 1980 at Falk 
School Gymnasium, Allequippa St., 
Oakland. These classes meet on Tuesdays 
from 7:00 to 8:30 PM, Wednesdays from 
5:30 to 7:00 PM, and Saturdays from 
noon to 1:30 PM. Information and re­
gistration forms may be obtained by 
mailing a stamped, self addressed enve­
lope to: Ms. Bobbi Snyder, 1724 Sill- 
view Drive, Pgh Pa. 15243, or by call­
ing 276-4527 or 683-8827.
Students and Faculty: Anyone interested 
in information about or working for 
Joseph Rhodes for US Senator, please call 
George Mowod at 831-8578.
.........................
More free 
Classifieds
To all the Theta Sisters, Merry Christ­
mas and a Happy New Year!'
Lots of Love, 
Your pledges
Chuck S.: Merry Christmas from your 
squeeze's old roomies.
Move out. Bitch!!! You study too 
much, clean too much and throw our 
friends out.
Greetings to Cindy. 
"Cindy". . .
That's all—just
Greetings Chrissy, you beautiful, 
charming, sweet, intelligent, lovely, 
witty, crazy epitomy of femininity.
APaul L.:
Why don't you visit us "three boi­
sterous little girls'* anymore?
Love, three waste-cases
Greetings to fellow^ employees in 
Housing from your best maintenance 
clerk, and most charming—Chris
Audrey Janet:
Do you remember?. . .While riding 
in our blue Buick, after eating bar- 
bequed bare bones... ,
"Hon.". . .Have you been liftin , 
Muscles? Merry Christmas from some­
body better looking. (Quality, not quantity.)V
i wish a certain Pika would call this 
Christmas! You didn't after Thanks­
giving. Miss you.
iAudrey:
Now which guy do you want for 
X-Mas? Greeting from Wildwood 
Buddies. Quit visiting.
Merry X-Mas to my favorite Calc, 
tutor. Thanks!
Love, Qndy
Wormest wishes for a Happy Holiday season.
Love to all, Chrissy, Qndy and Mary
Andy and Chris:
, How come you never visit us? You 
would think we had worms.
Andrew, I want to spend X-Mas in 
Maine: Sailing, dining, dancing,
plays, romance. Please? Oooohhh.
Merry Christmas to our exciting 
Biology class. Want to study for the final with us? ,
Love, burp and burp
Santa:
Bring Andrew the 'Top 40" for 
Christmas. He's been a cool guy.
Michael, please teach me how to moan 
on Christmas Eve.
Love, an ardent pupil
Stirley:
Hope you get what you want for 
Christmas!
Love, Cindy
4 Students One-actsifi .
ail
r-8pm - Wherrett Room
S
0
Hvu
A

---------------------------------------------------

f
specialsports
December 13 at 6, 8, and 10 PM 
International Animation Festival in
DH 2210. Admission $.75 with CMU
I D/$ 1 without.
This is a carefully selected collection of 
animated short films from the animation 
studios of France, Belgium, Czechoslava- 
kia, Yugoslavia, England,...Including the 
Academy Award winning Dot and the 
Line from the USA 
December 14 at 6,8, 10 and 12 PM 
Heaven Can Wait in DH 2210 
Admission $1 with CMU ID/$ 1.25 without 
Warren Beatty's wistful remake of the 
popular 1941 comic fantasy Here Comes 
Mr. Jordan: in which Beatty plays a pro 
quarterback taken too soon by an 
overzealous angel.
wrct
December 11 ,6-8 PM
"The Make Believe Ballroom" hosted by 
George Gee will present The Best of the 
Big Bands.
December 11,8-9 PM
"Profiles on Parade" hosted by Karen 
Ravits will discuss the recent rape attempt 
in Doherty Hall. Guests for the show are 
Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, 
and Claudia Geraci, Residence Life Chair­
person.
December 13,11 PM
"The Thirsty Air" listens to Gove Scri- 
venor, lead guitarist for Flying Fish. 
Radio Drama
The Killing of Yablonski: Scenes of In­
volvement in a Current Event, by Richard 
Nelson, directed by Randy Gale and pro­
duced by Jon Hayden will air today at 
3 PM.
This week "Airplay" will present the ori­
ginal radio drama. Companion by Chris 
Esposito on December 15 at 6 PM and 
December 17 at 3 PM.
WRCT will broadcoast A Very special 
Birthday, a drama about the meaning of 
Christmas on December 16 at midnight.
A special episode of "Airplay" will be 
presented December 17 at midnight: A
Christmas Fantasy by Jon Hayden, a CMU
drama major.
December 11-Women's Basketball vs.
Bethany (A) 7 PM.
December 12- Basketball vs. Westminster 
(A) 8 PM.
December 13- Basketball vs. Slippery Rock 
(H) 8 PM.
Pittsburgh Penguins Hockey
December 5 vs. Vancouver (7:30 PM) 
December 8 vs. Chicago (8 PM)
December 12 vs. N.Y. Islanders (7:30 PM) 
December 22 vs. N.Y. Rangers (8 PM) 
December 26 vs. Detroit (7:30 PM) 
December 29 vs. Atlanta (8 PM)
Pittsburgh Spirit Soccer 
December 7 vs. Detroit (8 PM)
December 14 vs. Cleveland (8 PM) 
December 19 vs. Hartford (7:30 PM) 
December 28 vs. Philadelphia (8 PM), 
December 27 at 7:30 PM 
Civic Arena
The talented Harlem Globetrotters return 
to town for one performance only. Tickets 
are $5.50, $6.50, and $7.50.
arts
December 11-16
Forbes and Margaret Morrison
Betsy Davis, Anne Patterson, Janice Wiley,, 
and Donna Griffin will feature their 
paintings and illustrations at the Forbes 
Street Gallery. Gallery hours are Tuesday 
through Sunday, 12:30-4:30 PM, and 
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday even­
ings 7-9 PM.
Through December 16 
Velar Gallery, GSIA Building
Fiberstance, a group show, will be on dis­
play. Gallery hours are 9 AM-5 PM, Mon­
day through Friday.
Through January 1980 
Carnegie Institute
"Printmaking in Europe" will run through 
January 31 in Gallery 10. The Pittsburgh 
International Series, featuring artists 
ChiIIida and deKooning, will be on view in 
Galleries 12, A,B,C,D and the Entrance 
gallery through January 6. Museum hours 
are 10 AM to 5 PM Tuesday through Satur­
day, and 1 PM to 5 PM on Sundays. Closed 
Mondays.
films
music
December 11 at 8 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
The Jean Renoir film series continues with 
Picnic on the Grass, Admisssion is $1.50. 
December 15 at 6:30, 9, 11:30 PM 
DH 2210
SDC presents The Sting. Admission is $.50 
with ID, $1.00 without.
December 16 at 7:30 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall 
The Harder They Come will be presented. 
Admission is $1.50.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center 
Craft Avenue, Oakland 
This week's film repertory includes: 
Tuesday, The Phantom of the Paradise; 
Wednesday, Virdiana; Thursday, A Delicate 
Balance (9:50 PM); Friday, Bread and 
Chocolate (9:40 PM); Saturday, Breaking 
Away; Sunday, On the Town; Monday, 
Rebecca (9:45 PM). Two shows nightly at 
7:30 and 9:30, except second show where 
noted. Admission is $2.50.theater
Happy Holidays from
the TARTAN staff
Through February 15,1980 
Hunt Institute
"The Tradition of Fine Bookbinding in 
the.Twentieth Century." an exhibit of ap­
proximately 100 bookbindings, will be 
held at the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation. The gallery is free and 
open to the public, Mondays through Fri­
days from 9 AM to 5 PM.
December 12-14 at 8 PM nightly 
Allegheny Community College 
South Campus West Mifflin
The Rogers and Hart review, Bewitched, 
Bothered and Bewildered, will be presented 
by the Drama Department. Call 469-1100 
for ticket information.
Through December 16 
4616 Baum Boulevard 
Dynamite Tonight by Arnold Weisten, 
will be presented by Theatre Express. 
Showings at 8:30 PM on Thursdays, 
Fridays, Saturdays; Sunday matinee at 
2:30 PM.
Through December 16 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Avenue
The Professional Playhouse Theatre Com­
pany presents the explosive drama, 
Clarence Darrow. For more information, 
call 621-4445.
January 7 to 9 at 8 PM,
January 9 at 2 PM
Heinz Hall's Broadway Theater Series pre­
sents Forrest Tucker in Jerome Kern and 
Oscar Hammerstein II's Show Boat, based 
on the novel by Edna Ferber. For ticket 
information call 281-8185.
December 16 at 8 PM
Heinz Hall, Downtown
Walt Maddox in concert with a tribute to
Nat King Cole. Guests include Milton
Berle, Lenny Litman.
December 13 at 9:30 PM 
27th and Jane Streets, South Side
As part of human rights week, Acapella 
Gold and Arty Tedesco will perform at 
Wobblie Joe's. For more information call 
431-2923 after 8 PM.
December 13 at 8:30 PM 
Wilkinsburg YWCA, Ross Avenue.
The Wilkinsburg Civic Symphony will pre­
sent a concert sponsored by the YWCA of 
Wilkinsburg.
December 14 from 8PM-Midnight 
4515 Forbes Avenue.
Alex Meleshenk will perorm at the Alter­
nate Coffeehouse, Featuring Classical 
Guitar and Christmas Music.
December 14 at 8:30 PM 
December 15 at 8 PM 
December 16 at 2:30 PM 
Heinz Hall, Penn Avenue, Downtown.
Emil Tchakarov conducts the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra performing selections 
from Hay.dyn, Saint-Saëns, Debussy, and 
Stavinsky. Violinist Chou Liang Lin will 
perform. For more information, cali 
281-5000.
December 15 from 8-11 PM 
4836 Ellsworth Avenue, Oakland.
Dog Run Boys, a new kind of bluegrass 
band, will be appearing at the Friends 
Meeting House.
December 18 at 8 PM 
Warner Theater, Downtown
Alicia de Larrocha, pianist, will give a 
recital. Tickets are $5, $7.50, $10.
m
