Uenmast be at liberty to rgiy in print.whatever they 
ui mind to. say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one. 
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 29, NO; 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBUHG&PA.
>uncil Fights 
¡Over Method 
¡Of Awarding
i ——.jPresident of Arts Senate 
i Claims There Is No 
| Basis for Grant
Ueen mamstbslesi
joF PRESENT RULING
(Pilliam Becker Appoints 
Invesligation Committee 
To Propose Chants
A fight over. the method of 
Awarding concessJoDsto students 
jLsued at the meeting of Student 
council last Tuesday, night,in the 
Christian Association of-. 
> definite solution, was 
Reached but a committee
Investigate more .proper 
netbods ot assigning these 
cessions, namely the bulletin 
ward concession and. the checking 
ttncessioD, wjilch are remunera­
te positions. - 
Discussion was opened by 'Wil- 
im Landsberg ’36, president 
ibe Arts senate, who claimed that 
itae present method which granted 
concessions to petitioners, 
unfair because, other 
9 presentation ot a petition, 
ihcre was no basis for the grant. 
This condition, it was pointed out, 
consequently laid the .present 
method open to favoritism. / 
Present Method Not Enforced 
Attention was . also' brought to 
tbe fact that the present inetbod 
-as not. .being enforced properly; 
s'was'evidenced in the awarding 
of tbe petitions for Lhis year, since 
(he fact that these Jobs were open 
the entire student body was not 
publicized and as a result1 only one 
petition for each job was received. AYguntent was not for the enforce­ment of the present ruling,but.the 
abandonment of .U, on thOgrounds that It, the fact were propeHy_pute
order to i ______patter It would be necessary 1 ~ ’* disinterested party Iemploy
award the conceseloi 
gested that that person; be the. whoin be tlu might consideiin his choice worthy, studeiits, who were Indebted toviHe 'school. for tuition.. This suegwtlon met/with general.sides on the grounds.that thls.iwas purely a student affjoir ahd th*vpbwer of the students to. hanijleiit. by meaneVof Student cioyhcll, sfiould/jaot be re4 "loved from them* .'?
Need Recognized .w
The fact tliat there* should be >uie definite bMla for .the, grant- ig of these petltlons-'w^a reiog- 'zed. however,. and>'s'entimfent. ex- -‘eased in further discussions was that :work-lih. actlvlU*y BhouW«-be- ttat baste, so that these confee’s- although they .¿htailed iwor#
recipient for! hla. work'fti'.other i IMtles-Pr&aident Becker thereupon ap­pointed a comTnitÎéô’ ^miwfled^ofJ - Regis Joyce George : Kltt*. w£se ’35 end '. WÎiifâiàÎ.iXéisberg 36 to Investigate1 whlch'MctMUea, nitnerto carrying no coriipehsatlon, -E9MiLniake_th£. reclpifints.-dtffieivr: fog persons for the •grantB. • Thé findings of the committee wllt-be disclosed at the nextfrmeklng ,ot' Stud(?at--«>un*ii:ariÀ^ô«on^.e-soi on these findlngs^/the tiafure' o!' a new ruling ot'-an amehdment to. the present tulln'g;>is/;aht!cipated:
Three Graduates 
Aid in Research
Today VEditorials 
’'A Logical Safeguard 
Avoid A Showdown
TUESDAY; MARCH 12, 1935
Personnel Heads
Interview Seniors
The Carnegie steel Company is
tenriew^TOaÿ .be-:had>at tb&Burèau: of - Recommendations. The inter-, will be held in Engineering
Jr., of the- Procter nnd. Gamble Company, ivorydale, Ohio,, will in­terview seniors'who are interested, in their company. - R..W. Peters, of the Standard Oll Company of New Jersey will inter* view seniors in the Department of Chemistry, Chemical, and Mechan­ical Engineering. Those men terested in a thorough training
all Interviews mast be made at the
Talking Film 
To ße Shown 
At Assembly
10:30 Classes Suspended 
Át 11:00 to-Permit 
All to Attend
“The Human, Adventure,’’ an 
eiight-reel talking picture, has be'ei 
procured by . Student Council for 
the next, general ¦assembly.' This 
assembly.will be held Tuesday at 
1:20 in the Carnegie'Music hall. 
Arrangements have been made 
wlth the Executive Board whereby all classes will -be dismissed'ut 11:00 o’clock. The-Executive Board has also'suspended’all 12:30 class-
lty to'éee the picture.
Depicts Rise of Man The film depicts the rise of .man from savagery to civilization.. It 
raa produced by the Orientai, in­stitute of‘-the-University of Chica­go under the direction of Dr. James H; Breasted, noted historian, arch- eologlst, and director ot the insti­tute. The picture,took Ihreeyears; _tolprepare ' and. neceBBltatcd ! two tripB'to“fffé^lîèaï^*ÉiBCri*^^--7'^' Student council secured, this markable- picture; 'ÿrhlch is claimed to b.e^tbe çnosteducaliônal .produc­tion of recent ÿéâïs ' in'coope'feUon with the .University ¿f Pittsburgh, and the Pittsburgh Board of-Edu­cation.Ne Admission Charge . >mmentlng about the picture, Dean Tarbell 8Bldi ‘'No student should miss-'-seeing it' . Friends and ‘ QarientsV of -the ' students are'
qylred-.,., , . „ ,The Erpl Picture Consultants. Inc., .-gave -technical ; assistance In the ilmlngof, this production.., Thé' itlréi photography was done by a îormér ;Hearat ihewsreel vcamera- TnanV ^en tbe.pictUre was finished, hé said tbat bls worst but most ex­citing' adventures were during the days.-when -lie*.;waa .flying : oyer-the p^rsiBn'mountainS'insearchpf-'ma- ferial -to .put Into the picture.
F&M'Natators 
Win' È.C.S.A; 
Swim Meets
Pitt Second,. Lafayette 
Third, Tech Fourth 
In Water Races .
FÂNS THRILLED BY 
CLOSE CONTESTS
Chalmers,.- Sola, Steinberg, 
Stouflett and Murray 
Annex Victories
The Franklin and Marshall Col­
lege swimming team .was crowned 
champion of the ¿astern'Intercol­
legiate Swimming. Association last 
Saturday, in the Carnegie pooL 
The ttevonlans sbowed a great deul. of power-in sweeping through to u victory, scoring ,32 points to Its nearest opponent’s 20.. The University of Pittsburgh, a heavy pre-meet favorite, took sec­ond place in the competition with a total of 20 points, barely nosing out Lafayette with IS points. Thè Ma­roon swlmmersvfrom .Easton were, another surprise, notbeing conced­ed much better than fifth before the meet.Carnegie look fourth place with 12 points, being followed by George Washington with 7, Manhattan with 6. City College of Newf'York with- 5, ¿Delaware and ..Swarthmore tied at 4 apiece, and Lehigh TvJlh 3 points. .individuals. Star - The moBt-thrilling'. race of . the day was the final race or the 440- yard freestyle. Lindberg of Pitt, a. topheavy favorite,, stepped*/out early and seemed to-have, the race Bewèd -up at the 300>-yard mark. However, Steinberg of C. C: N: Ÿ. started to cui; down that lead'until, coming out of the-lasfc turn, he îmed to have enough'momentum iu shoVe past the Panther .ace ami win the race by Inches in the very fast time of 5:15.2.Perhaps thé' most remarkable swimmer of the day was Whltey Sola, star spjlntman of the Frank­lin'.and, .Marshall squad. Sola did hree.rflftiea lo the course of the day, all ot them.well under 25
* iifWtìtftVr sauad AhdrBòlng'fròi ‘ hó.dy • length - behind Lindberg of Pitt,1 be won. the. event handily on the last lap:- Gordon--Chalmers dfUhé.Blùé àiid White won.the.160- d backstroke with ease, this be­ing-: the race- he swam on the United States Olympic team.Winners Show Class The 220-yard. freestyle ws by , Murray ot Manhattan who is considered one of the best li ' league-in this event He had little difficulty-In gaining an early lead nnd/winnlng golng.àwày. Stouflett of. Lafayette was-sin individual star . 'thè3prtbt01;^a!nlhg'sa,-c)6se pnd.to^Solà iii lhe flfty and .winning ,the hundred..by;a safe margin." Thè 30Ò-yafd: niédlèy .j-elay was jvon by Franklin and^Maruh&U with Carnegie taking-. àecon<Ì‘ ' In . tho .'event . No other teams wtre enter- . The. 200-yard breaststroke was won-by Ghormley.-'of George Wash- ington ln 2:44 with Wetzel of F. & M, taking second-place;
214 Students Win Places
On Semester Honor List
College of Engineering Leads With 102 Names; 
Increase of 32 Over Previous Semester; Four 
Have Perfect Scholastic Rating
. fluting1 the flrsf'‘'semester •• 1933-4, the,,honor list reqtilremei were raised from the]: previous straight "B"-factor, to the present average ot3.16;'and the first honor.1 list- published, after this change showed a decrease of only nine stu-
Two hundred , and fourteen stu­dents received mention oh the Car­negie honor list tor the first mester, irorn a total day school registration ot 2,160-. - The require- tents Cor honor ' rating '
The College ot Engineering had the greatest number of honor stu­dents, 102, while Margaret Morri­son was second y/lth' 61. There were 51 from the College of Fii Arts.....- Th? ¡senior class had 62 students with honor 6Íónding; the junior class, 51; ,the sophomore class QO; and' .the freshman class, 41. ;Four Have Perfect Record Four students received a factor ot 4.00, or a straight “A” average, three ^being Juniors and the fourtha sophomore. The juniors- __Louise E.. Meixner, Margaret Mor- rison, and Benjamin B. Lustmap. and Jack E. McKee, College of En­gineering. Mary Louise Kolten baugb, Margaret Morrison, was the one sophomore, receiving a ,perfect scholastic average.
People You Ought to Know...
: By Clifton P. Boutelle
Rose Marie Grentzer, Vice President of the Arts Senate
/GEORGE BERNARD SHAW once said that the commonest 
^t\iype ofr-giil'k wJicf ié-afraid she’ll miss something.
ObVi6u8ly, t£en,',Rose iia.rie Grentzer is not one of-'the ïiéomi 
Vnon^Àfc ‘t.vpfe:VV- ¦-She*9- .‘not afraid she’ll miss anything—and 
hardly-evef doeSi . :
•ÿ^yvMis^ eenior in the Music Department, major
n she al- ^
Physics Dept., Investigates 
Magnetic Moments
Three 'graduate students. .’who are working toward their doctors’, degrees m science are engaged In o? Phyaica Research laboratories. Ail the work which these students
int the department", which-aRcs in magnetic moment, va- 'ence. and molecVilar ray • problems^ Julius Halpern;is. working on tho relative concentraticns of- artha- an<* Para hydrogen, separately and J* a mixture., J.. Martin. Glass iS ^teminmg the: densities 'of' differ-;Bases with.the idea in mind of- “etenuinmg the concentration , of neavy hydrogen. The. third^grad-' atudeut,.'.William H.iBessy^is. ^owinB large crystals. These will used m -molecular ray- experi-n*eiiis.Other experiments • are* aleo go- >ne on. Dr. Simpson is working on » netector-for molecular -rays.;:This ne hopes will .be more sensitive ik \-any olner oelector. -'Also in we laboratories: they are s^ttihp .P a hydrogen, liquefyer.: Liquid. tXu 1?®° ’will' be obtained i; and ll> be used to : produce: pure para hydrogen./- Para^;hydrogen wu m tum be investigated' tor;-its: J^leeular and . magnetic ,proper-:
sò ii|ay3 ttìe:piand;and..the harp. 
She'' graduated from South Hills 
high-echooi.-receiving a Pittsburgh 
•Honor1. Scholarship. •’
;:;Whiie at Carnegie Rosé Marie 
haafke'ptcon-.£tantly. activeyears.Kef most, not­able : activity, recently,' .w a s th© founding' óf -.thè ; Ryth..
purpose of this :e'ns«mb)í!.i9.tii' acquaint
.............edill e!-™*“''.demonstrating.-Che Arts, the- En- semble has made, and is going to' make, many demonstrations in and 
arOund-'V'V'the Pittsburgh district Among h’er otber activities, she is vice'pfeSTd-ettt. of the Avts .Senate; (tho_highest office an-Arts School girl can'occupy), .vice president of the-Senior Class, vice.president of the. . Guild;-a -member of tbe Wo­men’s. Scholarship organization, a member of:. Student Council, in charge of' CoronBtlon -for Campus Week, and: president ot Beta Tail Lambda, social sorority; In her “spare time ’, she likes to read, go swimming: ride .horseback, play 
tennis, and golf.' so skating, dance, play^ basketball, walk, .hike,,.and bury: herself In her ‘‘ real love —¦muslc.'Not^flndiDgeLOUgh.tokeep
her busy, she is also plannln'glni department dances for the Art^
Commente On Brown House Miss Grentzer ' is apparently a deep and constructive thinker. Re­garding the Brown.House situation, she takes a side not often heard from.,. -In her opinion, the Bvown House Is . much too: small ..to .hold, the many offices which would be
Rose Marie advances the opinion that, the sororities from- Margaret ¦i\i'orriaou -should- nwtr—ta?*« yoeggp. hers from each other's scliools, be­cause ot the different environments. The “Hves1* of the two .scliools are
Thinks Concerts Improving
the barriers among'the schools. She has noted definite improvements in' the morale of the Music .Depart­ment,- lately... As she.!says, kbout. the orchestra. • “Each ' concert seems to be better than-the last." And what is perhaps her most no­ble characteristic. ' she doesn’t actually'dislike anything, she has schooled herself to like everyone- and everything. - That should cer­tainly be termed avv-bigh moral standard tor anyone.-\o: And she is naturallv a leader. !:she>undoubt-edly agrees :'iolVi' friend,.... _ Shaw '(In^a^aia).. whosays: "If - the .meek, ever.'do - inherit the earth, someone will take it awav. tromv them the> next day/'-..
Dr. Morlédge 
Will Addre ss 
Todays Chapel
Services Will be Held
In Fine wihg Theatre 
At Eleven Thirty
In today’s chapel.-program Dr.'.J. S. Mo'rledge will' speak on ''Un- coin's. Religious Life.” • The serv­ice will be held, at .11:30 In the LttUe Theater, ' College ot' Fine Arts. .
Music for today's service will be furnished .by the Women’s Glee club. The two songs to be pro-, seated-are “The Carol of the Rúa- sioti Children," arranged , by Gaul, and “AlarJe. TVlegenlied'.’ by Reger.
church, having come to . Pittsburgh last fall after, holding-' ¿'similar po­sition at WMhington,:Pa.>.i^s.J9 nis inUial'-'ajppe^rabce'-'as1 speaker- on a Carnegie .chapel prbgTairi.
• Following this.,year’s''-policy oi having!; the - chapeU-aervices- Bpon- sored'.by'the different student or- ganjzatlons,' today’s chapel will be held.: under tb'e . auspices of the Y.' W. C.-A.' Preylo.u6 chapel services this year'have ibe^ii-sppnBOred by Uie rnterfrateniltv ^ouncil. 'the Ji- tersorority council: and tho R; O. ,T- C. .The object of: this- system Is
Dept, of Music 
Gives Concert
Student Soloists Featnred 
By Symphony Orch.
- The Carnegie Student Symphony
concert ¡ on Sunday evening, Marchv17, at 8:15.'o’clock ln Carne­gie Music Hall. Two studente in
Stonte, • VJolnlBt and .Earl. Wild, .pianist,; will bè featured 'as aolotsta. Tbe program.-will Include/"Sym- Minor** by Gesar
presented on :FrIday afternoon at o’clock In 'C.arnegi'e Music Hall for the delegates to the meet­ing of, the Eastern Music Super­s' Conference. Tickets- for both concerts may. be obtained.'by applying'at the. music office, Room' 153,, College ot Fine Arts, on or
o’clock: - Marlon :Swan,sLudent in. the Dcpartmeat of .Miislc, will -‘ présent a piano re* the Exhibition room of the College of Fine, Arts. , Miss Swan has just recently'veturned to Pltts- bufgli' a'tïëf 'à'ÿëàr oï study- al»r<jaif.':
dents over tbe number tor tbe responding, semester .of tbe previ­ous year'. This year thero is-an in­crease of 32 students oyer the sum berv for the first semester of last yeRr, but a decrease of 21 over the .number Tor the second semestei* of last . year. However, the second' eeinester list is usually larger thun that of .thò first semester..'Honor Llst Reteaae addition to .being pt_ bulletin boards for Bpeclal notices '.on the campus, copies of the honor list are released lo the .Pittsburgh newspapers, to the parents of .those receiving' mention, -dbd .like­wise to-the principal of each ‘•high school represented in the' list, 1 being-the ,aim of tho school to giv< às.much recognition as possible, of its appreciation tor the scholastic records, made by itB etudents.See page two for -the complete list.
Transmitting 
Club Receives 
Gov’t License
Students Will Operate 
Local Station; Call 
Letters, W8NKI
. .The Carnegie Te4ch Amateur 
Transmitting. Club, under' whose, 
auspices .the schoorB..new amateur 
short-wave transmitter has been 
constructed, has just received the 
necessary government license to operatè .In thé amateur bauds'. Tim call letters assigned by'the Federal Cpmmunicationa Commission to C^rheéié’s'station are yv'sNKI. Th« following is. the significance of tho x^^BiBnai,vaB;.reaulr^';by:-tlie''in: iernàtlônal agreemën't:'Thè.,!W,’-la a distinguishlng mark .-given .to all amateurs In the Unlied States; tbe “8" signifies the location in the Ohlo^rlver valley..region; ,^nd the sthree letters are assigned in order td hew applicants. v '
r -. . Must Have License v, Thé îftP’ requires that an' opera.- tor’s ltcenqe.. muBt ^ act as trustee tor the ot^anlzation controlling amateur etation. At present tbe trustee, for the CTATC Is Robert A^"MeCo'nneH, Department ot Phye- 
iCB..v!a'5.'' ¦’. ..f ¦ '•Operation, of .WSNftl id Teetrict edv. to”' Carnegie stiidents who pos­sess' Federal licenses for this prlv- lege. Afore than twenty operators among Carnegie students have' at- eady registered as members ot the dub; Those Interested In opera­tion, but at present unlicensed, are invited to participate when the sto< tlon is in charge of a licensed, oper-
At present the - tranemltter is undergoing' testa;'10‘tlie-immediate future, 'regular operating sched­ule will- be arranged- and system­ic communication work will be-
Apparatus Described'The transmitter now .consists Of a crystal-controlled .master oseille*.’, which excltes:,at:à constant fre- the Department seieral Int'erm'emato. dm-pllfylhg stages, which In i trpf tBe finalVcSf'ciilt, which. Is à hlgh-.'power,, push-puli '. trlode ampli­fier. - The -tubes enipioyed In the tBBt-Btnge*are-type--8-5-'2-;-an..4nput power of 460.watts wlll bc employ­ed.',.Equipment is,.available for op- efatlon o’n\the most commonly used naieur- wavelength' band»:.' Àmateut stations are forbidden Lransmit entertainment of any kind; tbftlr use Is restricted , to ex­periment and polnt-tchpolnt. com­munication without pay. W8NKI will bo. employed both iu experi­mental work with long-distance In-
utes with other university radioin the country. This will fa­cilitate telegraphic rifle and chess
hall, is open to visitors at all tLmea.
Coming Events
, Room!-113,'• Eugineerins
Thursday—ath-Plano recital. Earl Wild- hibltion room. College of Fin«
WWSW—Exhibit
Friday—r •4:a0—^Carnegie- Symphony orf cbestra broadcast over WWSW ¦ -r-Exhibltion ' room.. -5:»0-T-Slgma Alpha Iota —. Ban-1 :: ,quet>andi¡Ínltiatíon. : .
rtarnegie
Tartan
Quarter-Hour
The.pro^a'm pf the Tartan QuaN ter ifour 'at ? :1$ tombvibr evening Includes the;ibUowing:As'feature; -Joe Bach, newly-ap- .poidted'Carn'egie footliail coach, wilt •b^-isitOTVl-ew^ •hy~:'Jerrr--Has6Qj>. sports.edilDr.The Scotch .'Lassies—'Alyce Phil- pott and Betty Schrack—.will* offer a-musical surprise . number with Evelyn' Lvle-,asslsting.Helen- jayne will: sing a medley of popular -songs.; v:Tbis r program Is. arranged; an- .nounced, :v.and ' ¡directed1 by- Carl 'Do7.er':3ii.v^ :-\ As ,:the ‘program Is; broadcast from the Exhibition room of the .College of Fine Arts, students: are invited .to-attend.^'
Annual Sing, 
Swing Plans 
Announced
Pat. Notaro’B Orchestra 
Has Been Engaged 
For Evening
WINNERS RECEIVE 
NEW LOVING CUP
Judges Will Give Decision 
,On Fcrformance. Quality, 
Ability,'Appeal
¦ The vGreek slog uud Swing, ini 
niial voice conteBt and dancq spou- 
sored by' the, traternitles, - will be 
held in tbe Men's' Gybiiieelum and 
Thistle hall, Frldny evening, March 
22 at 7:45.
-Pat Notaro iind his MlUshipnion have been selectod to furnish the music for this year's dance. Nat«- 
ibua orchestra played for the Inter- sorority Formal on February 21. The 'Midshipmen have been prom* Inont. on. the social calendars, of other campuses, bovine played for the Penn State Spring'Formal, tho Fall Formal at W. & J-, tbe Junior Prom at the University of West Virginia and the Junior and Senior Proms as well as the Christmas Bell nt^the Pennsylvania' College for Women, in addition, tho band has had engagements at Waldn* meec Beach, Erie, at Euclid Berich, Cleveland) and' at the Merry-Go' Round in Akron. ' • ,Winners Receive Cup'The winning team, which will be announced1'during the dance, j/1U: be awarded a new beautifully" graved loving cup to be put on play la the side windows ot the Office ot the Doon of Women bo« ginning tomorro'w. . .Tickets may be obtained in . the Carnegie ...Christian Association flee or-from'members of the Dra­gon Society tor $1.26:A 'complete set of tho entranco and contest rules, which govern tho Sing and Swing, are being sent to all the fraternities and dormitories, nd are printed- below.Entrance-Rules 1. Only Fraternity and. Men's «rmltory,.groups are eligible,to•onter. teams.............. . v..¦
2....Each.team; shall be1 composed if uot more, than twelve t leader, or-less than six'3. Each team must be. entered not later than Friday; March 16'.Namee ot all .members.of each" tearo Shall- bo entered later than Friday, March 15, with list of the. songs, they a elngJn the order they- .c siing.
7:46,Each team shall be alloted 'n maximum time limit ot six minutes, Eâch team shall.' be allowed to sing as many;songs as possible tho alloted time,L To avoid repetition, school songs shaU not be Bung 'by ¦ any ' ?am.. ‘, 5.. ' Each team shall be dressed In
interested facility members, (o be announced at the event'The winning team shall he
The award of the cup shall be made at'the dance after the con* tost' lo'afford the judges suSilcieut time to render the. decision. .Both the team winning the Lna^eSm efffnleg'.'lroiraral
Interiraternity Council 
Draws Up. Resolution; 
Declareslndependence
Carnival Chairman
Thomas W. Dana '35, president of the Engineering Senate, who been named chairman for the nual Spring Carnival.
Carnival Plans 
Ann o onced 
By Chairman
Thomas W. Dana Names 
Committee Heads;
. d. ,Ubba­ Sec.
Thomas W. Dana !36, gefieraT chairman of tbe annual Spring Carnlvnl, has announced hie niittee for this year’s affair, which 'take place • from - Moy through Mdyvi.l.^ These:.chaira
dinates.'are' ae foilows: '
Tickets, Roger¦ W. Burko ?86; 
elections,--TVJliiam A. Carlson ’86;> 
music, .'William A.- Clements ’35; 
finances, OhaMea, H. Hayes ’38; 
decorations, George,,Qoodrldse ’3e;: 
coronation,, Roee-Marle Gréaizer 
.’35; show, ^J. Regis Joyce’35; secre­
tary, Veronica Klboa '86;. sweep* 
stakes, Llbbus Lewiu '35; electric- 
itÿ, FranelB E. Mërtz'ZB; publicity, 
John '.Richmond '36. . :Tentative plans ¿all ifor. the>; c nival to ; be: somewhat similar last ‘ yearV/. celebration;- <1t. will open May 9 with the crowning of the Campud Queen at .the Corona; tion ball. -:SweepstakeB prellmlnar* lea will be Beld on Friday morning,' and ln the afternoon, a student hey­day affair, which has, not yet as* sumed definite .formi . wlll .take place. In the . evening ’a'coétahie ,ball wlli. be held In the Gymnas/um and-ThlBtle haJl.. .' ;.r.-Sweépstàkes finals aire schedul* ed ior . Saturday morning,. May. 10, and in the afternoon William Beck* er' ‘36, twill preside over' the Call day ceremonies. A production. by the Bacchanalians will close, tho
be held ln the next fe^-weeks. Def­inite plans ; on tlie Bacchanalian jw are also belng niade.
TARTAN STAFF NOTICE
College of Fine Arts Offers 
Special Summer Courses
Recreational Programs 
Are Being Arranged 
For Registrants
both graduate and undergraduate
Industrial institutions, student dances, and other forms of enter* tatnment is bein? planned; and,; fn' addition, the [ swimming, pool and tennis .coVirte will be: available tor the students’ use.' •’Department «* Music The type of work offered by. the Department of.Muslc In the under­graduate field includes indlviaual lessons: group lessons, ensemble, harmony, history ot music, add
cludedi m the elective group of ad­vanced.. - undergraduate - aubects Uich are applicable in- tulfiUlng the" requirements . .for the M. A. degree in music education, are esthetics, psychology ..of music, and acoustics of music. The: last two
and psychology of ‘ ' this ;cam*only '.three.-----— „lie country.In which either of these courses is
music, never before pus. In' fact, there or four'institutions In this country
given.
Classes in Dalcrozo Enrythmlcs,. after an absence from .the program for two years, will again be sched­uled this summer. Of interest al­so is a course in improvisation at th_e piano.'. . i"'“i’or^^thV'iWra' 'consecutive'siTrn? mer processor Luvaas of Alle­gheny. college will: be a gue6t in­structor' In the Department, of Music. This summer, the depart->nt intends to. depart from the
of Professor Lyvaaa. may be ad-. mittèd'tO this group. It- is ;h'oped that in .this way. Interest -m-group linging at Carnegie: may . be stim-.
open 'both to the regular students
Each Fraternity' to Vote 
- Separately-on Bill 
By Saturday
WON’T PAY STUDENT 
COUNCIL DOORMEN
Fraternities Will Publish 
Magazine ibr Freshmen 
. Next School Year
At its regular mooting laBt Sat-' 
Urday morning Interfraternlty 
ccunollv - designated Its. Executive- 
committee to dvuw up a formul no­
tice, not a petition, stating In clear . 
terms its severing ot connections 
with Student council.
The fraternity group voted not 
to pay Student council’s two door* 
men which were assigned to,tho 
Interfraternlty 'bull.
Bocause Julian Munster, preei* ' 
dent ot.the Interfraternlty council, 
failed to appear, the meeting 
which was scheduled for 10 o cloek - 
last Saturday inornlng did not^get 
undor way- until one hour' later.: Frederick R. McKelvey, .vice pros*
• The- Executive 'committee' •.... instructed at-the meeting to draw up the formal notice Sunday night und to. place copies of : the missive- In the hande of-the presidents, ot-. tho' varlous hougeB Mbnddy.. Eac)i
Ing. indicates that the notice ^111 probably be ratified with-liltie dla* .
Treasure,' treaeurer! of thè Inter-, fraternity council, revealed the Tn.- tertratémity ball to have made i ' proflt in excess' of $100. Bdcausd . all bills are' not j|:et In, a- complete, :, : accurate. statement could .not be' obtained. ; . v
Rifu«» .Vò,:Ray ___:: Reaentment o/ Student council’s - attitude / toward . : Intetiraièrniity,^V>niiiii»ìl", WtTd' 'iitavlrtft:- —. 'ObyioAs at'’ the-' meet.V'. ; Ing. Student council is charging ¦ Interiraternity couhcn $25.00,'o8 aQ' '-.'. administration' fee. fòr thè dimce,''-'.^ Oh the grounds that Interinateti ' ' nUy-.icounaHi. haBV collected . all , Ita i ' ticket, money,. :haa : made ail ai-:-;'.- rangementB, and haa-carTled 'ou’t,:' ’ its. own - bookkeeping, . the pieiifc .V dents of .the various houses, on :. ; campus voted : unanlmoualy ' to tùsé payment of the $26.00.fee. < v-’- v The, organization also voted .to leeue a.-magazlne in.'order-.tóVac-' quaint .freshmen'. wlih. Camegie: ¦ fraternities.' It is. planned' to t’eC 'léase'ttilfl’pUbllcatloiii'the'beglqr nlng of the-next* school year. ' : : -
Music Dept; Offers
4 Weekly Recitals
Musicals to Bc Held at 12:30i '/ 
' ÀU Students ;May' Attend:
Fine Arts, eveiy r .school - day. ot 12:90 except Tuesday.- Tho 'idai .that 'these recitals are offered ior: ;' Art; studontB. only is a misconcepi '; tlon; they:^are giveii^^ lor th^beaoi^ fit ot the ehtire ptudent body. ' - Thursday, Earl Wild will, givo' a' piano , recital.: He ¿ will play.-.•fiesflgr:-':composiUoh .yAppa8fliO»haitiBS=5%
graph recitals will -be glvei^ Inot^” log use-.of tho electrlc^ ph&ffoigMph- - and. records, donated to Cahi'ssis^v etudents- a fexv -weeks ago- by^tie^-^ Carnegie. Corporation, ot New York. v.,' ^-sterday . Beethoven's :¦ •Sydi.;.: i;y No..71’ recorded:by.the;PW1« , adelphla'. Symphony orfch‘Q3tra'\'ifa*'t :. der StokowBkl: was V-playcdi'^Mivx.^ Charles .Pearson ot the; Department s i of MuBic-.will be invcbarge; ¡‘To.motvV row, Dean rKeeble.-'wJH have cbaige.vi-.a of, the program which inciudea'-'Tie-^ Sacre du prlntempB,” and “Apollojt . ,. Mu s a g e t o” — Stravinsky ;v;and^ “Classical • Symphony’.’T^Prokofleff/'L-i-'i Friday,, tiie recital, will consirt;:6f .:i'i a program of music by Johann. bastian'Bach Jn honor of the: 2t>0th-^:; anniversary; o£ bis birth.'
Dr. Garth Speaks * 
At TY*- Meeting«
-The Yi -W. C: .A. will hold a'dlu-:'.'5r meeting tomorrow: In' Racre'ai\'v' tion Hall of . Margaret Morrlsofc'^ Carnegle,College.>:The-'dlacu8'slO^S will liegln at-'4:30 and dlriner, ^iilv£.served at 6:06. :t)r. S«huyler^^', Garth, pastor ;'bt.- the Christ Metho’-^’ list Episcopal . Church- of 'Pitt!a-ii^ lurgh. will load the discussionr^Bcr^ mbject of .which will be "CUooBlhg-^ i. Life partner.”.- i' Dr. Qarth 1a widely knownv-anAvi's very . popular, in:...• groupBu:an.il«- he has spoken- several--' tlioes^at^ Carnegie Y. • W. C. A: . meetings^All Camegio women are urgedsto-x attend thla mcstvng. aftd: aUittossg^1 who intend-to come are' askedtto^ ’’* sign their names.on a notice on.thk^ ... main bulletin board ^ot Margai^t's^ Morrison. A cbargevoC thirty.-cents»^.•willbemadefor.tbeidlnner.-t "

---------------------------------------------------

, THE'CARNEGIE'TARTAN. nJESDAY, MARCH iS,-1935.
Tartan Show 
Date Is Fixed
Newest SpriDg, Summer 
Styles to Be Shown
STUDENT MODELS
Dance," Probably in Thistle 
Hall, 'Will Follow Display
¡Friday, March 29, has been set 
. as the date for the second annual 
combined Tartan style show and 
dance. The style show Tcill again 
he staged in the Men's Gymnasium, 
and the dance. wM, in all.probabil­
ity, be held in Thistle Hall.
The event last year was such an 
unusual success from • the ston»l 
point ot everyone concerned that the Tartan felt justified in sponsor­ing anollier fashion parade this
^The stvle show, at which the very latest and smartest spring and dimmer ensembles for men and Go­lden will be displayed by student models, Is being held again a» a cooperative project of the Tartan . and its. advertisers. The model» will be chosen by the', executive board of the publication In the very 
near future.Plans as yet, are very Indefinite, although Julian sp. Munster *35. Tar­tan business manager, intimated that tho combined style show and dance will be carried out in ..much the “same manner as it was- last year The gymnasium will be prop­erly decorated for the occasion an.l ft public address system will be in­
stalled lo facilitate
Regional Youth 
Groups Convene
Conference Begins Saturday 
At Central Y.W.C.A.
•Various youth groups of this dis-- trlct are holding a Western Penn­sylvania Regional Youth congress at the central Y. W. C. A., 59 Chat­ham street on Saturday afternoon and evening, nnd Sunday morning.' The'program begins in the after­noon with a series of round table discussions oh the causes and rem­edies* of unemployment, methods 
of'combating war and fascism, and1 • .the position of youth in Industry.’
•In. the evening, after reports . from the round table sessions and ; election of various committees, .there will be a symposium, open ,to: the public. Prominent speakers . from the Republican, Democratic. Socialist, and Communist parties wiil BpBük on "What ay party of­fers to youth." \ .
On Sunday morning - at ten . o’clock there win be a continuation of the round table discussions, vot- - ing on resolutions, the election of a. délégation to present .-proposais '. of the. congress to the state leglsla-- ture and Governor Earle, and thé : election of a continuations commit-
tee.
A. series of youth " congresses'' . Tiàve been organized' In various, -¿parts of America. to discuss solu- i .'tioiis to' the varied' problems' of v'the young people of America. In .^January, there was held a nation*: :al congress of 262 delegates reure-- seating over 600,000 youth from ' TTs, churches, labor groups, andpolitical youth organizations, which met at .Washington, and .dréw up a program of action to­wards the abolition of wars and the combating of fascism.
; To continue the work of the na­tional congress, this Pennsylvania
/tion' or all youth to this program.
Rains Reveal Man’s Past1 Indents Hosts 
To Delegates
Entertainment Arranged 
For Supervisors
VISIT MUSIC DEPT.
Alumni Luncheon Planned 
For Graduates Thursday
; colonnaded modern cathedral; s top of the column at which Difrom Oriental Institute talking pld
- hypostyle hall of I A hundred men C' eaeted Is looking (siThe Human Adventure”);
Man’s Rise from Savagery 
Depicted in Unique Picture
Oriental Institute Creates Modern Magic Carpet 
Which Reveals Archeological Finds in Near 
East; Shows Great .Columns cf Darius
The Department of Music will 
take part in the program of the 
fourteenth annual Eastern Music 
Supervisors’ conference which is 
being held in Pittsburgh, beginning today and'continuing through Fri- Headquarters will be at the William Penn hotel. Members of the organization are teachers of music in public schools. The con­ference will include concerts, ban­quets, and discussions.' This after- loon lbose attending tho
they will be entertained in the Ex­hibition room by the. broadcast of tho-"Carnegie Tech Presents" pro-
Chatmcey Kelley,' oboe; . William Stone, first violin; Wilma- Meise, d violin; Rose Aiello, viola; and Louise Wingold, cello.
Thursday the Carnegie alumnae luncheon for the public- school music graduates will be held at 12:00 in the William Penn- hotel.- 30, Friday,' the' Carnegie' Stu­dent Symphony, orchestra conduct'
Music hall.
Friday evening at 5:30, the Al­pha Mu chapter of Sigma Alpha Iota,-musical honorary, will hold a banquet and initiation of honor­ary and patroness members.
Junior and senior students ‘in the Department of Huslc will be required to attend the conference. Other music students .may attend it they procure-membership'tlck-'
has <talking motio character is Man and Its story is the rise of Man from remotest sav­agery to civilization. Tbe film, called “The Human ' Adventure,” produced by the Oriental Instl-
the .first and only laboratory for the study of what Dr. Breasted •describes- In' the film- aB-“the most- remarkable process known to us in the-unlversd; theTise ot Man from savagery to civilization." -Film Is Like Magtp Carpet [Like a modern magic carpet the’ film carries the audience by air­plane through the lands where
film are sequences In. which Dr. Breasted is seen and heard describ­ing tho work of tbe' Institute and the epic rise of Man; a flight the--Pèrslan-mountains and-another in a sandstorm which reached heights of 12,000 feet; excavations Which-reveal 14' separate and dis­tinct cities, each built one upon’ the
other with a Stone Ago-village at .the bottom and the remains of an parly Christian temple at the top; •eapons made by Stone Age man; rheat'from the days of Joseph; the stables of King Solomon; and ether archeological finds of impor­tance, to the historian of ancient
fessional cinematic record made on standard size film of Per- iiepolis, tbe capital of the Persian Empire built’, by Darius the Grear about 500 B. C. Here the Institute’s Persian Expedition made its head larters in the reconstructed irem of Darius.
The monnments-the gr£at‘ col; nns .and the carved' stairways of the Palace of Darius, shown in the among the finest txamplea id architecture In the world riyaleQ only by the. glories .of the Acropolis.“The Human Adventure” repra- rntB a new and entirely- unique form of motion picture. Never be- has the work of .the archeolog- ist and the historian been presented forcibly a.nd' graphically, it is 6ald.Tbe picture not only represents remarkable picture of how man stored the lost pages of civJll:
addition it enables visualize the tremendous achievements of ancientOne of the strongest points of
the convention!
Debate Cluk Discusses 
Plans for Next Year
11:30 in Margaret Morrison. Mary
plans for debating.'Some possible ideas for next year’s Debating clnb will be dis­
hes .been postponed, but there definite expectations of a debate
W.S.O. Offers 
Two Ballets
‘Presepbone’ to Be Given 
Again This Year
INTERPRET MOODS
Sixth Color Dance Is Climax 
In ‘Chromatic Fantasy’
“Persephone" and “Chromatic 
Fantasy" will be given by the Wo- 
men's Scholarship Organization at 
the Little Theater, Irene Kanfmau 
Settlement ‘House, on April 2 and 
3. The proceeds-will be used for aiding needy students in the col­lege of Fino -Arts and Margaret Morrison.
Forty students ,/rom the Depart­ment of Drama will take part in the dancing in :“Chrom^tic Fan­tasy.’’ Six different ’ dances are combined in this ballet. They in­terpret the moods created by vari­ous colors, red, yellow, green, blue, purple, and tbe climax is reached in a lovely grand Unale.
Ballet Is Movement Drama 
“Persephone" was given last year and was received so favorably that; the committee . is, f repeating
some parts have beeu ' changed which tbe committee-. claims make it better than previously. This ballet is a movement drama based on an old Greek myth.
•Earl Wild and George ' Young­ling, Department of Drama, com* posed tbe music. An orchestration was made by Chauncey Kelly which will be played by the Stu­dent Symphony Orchestra under (lie direction of J. Vick O'Brien.. James McNaughton '35, Depart- ment of Architecture, 1b general producer and designer -ot/ stage settings.
Three Performances Offered Three performances will be given. Two evening performances. April: 2 and- 3 will be given >at 6:30 and a matinee at 4:00 o’clock April 3. The tickets .are priced from 75 cents to $3.00- for the eve­ning performances and -from 50
call Mayflower 2600 and ask
Jane Provost, box 124, Carnegie Institute of Technology. The e
all written .communications.-.
MAIL BOX NOTICE
Tech Post Office will, in the be able to obtain their mall until o’clock Saturday afternoon.
Music Makers for Sing and Swing
- \r,; j-;f S. /-V
X X \
List of Prominent Women 
Includes Faculty Member
Miss Huldah J. Kenley 
Honored by Women's 
’ «Who’s Who”
. By Dorothy Booth 
One of the! members of Carne­
gie’s faculty has just been accord­
'd' a. rare* h?0nor by having her tame listed .in tlie 1935 edition of ’American Women,” the Who’s Vho among the women of the na* tion. Miss .Huldah J. Kenley, npon whom this honor has been conferred, is'a professor in the Department of Mu6lc.
Is Modest About'Honors ' Miss Kenley modestly maintains that she merited this honor be­cause of her being a facultyin -de-
which, she be- lieveB, rates at
the National Committee ot •Scholastic and Prof esslona)
negie chapter is quite eminent.
Some of our members attending the convention have returned en­thusiastic 'about the quality of their wor£ as compared with' that' of members of other chapters." Evidently Miss Kenley is a staunch believer In the idea that the work bf the students reflects back upon tbe instructors.
Miss Kenley received her higher learning at Earlham college, the
was awarded a Bachelor of Arts degree in Education. After.teach­ing for a few years at Pitt, she transfcred to Carnegie in 1921. In 1925, ¿he Madrigal choir was form­ed under tho direction of Mi6s Ken­ley. “It forms an important part
chosen from, tlu.i departi The choir specializes in . English songs. Miss kenley’s astuteness in directing tbe choir enlarges the reason for having her name listed in the Who’s Who among the wo­men of the nation.
Is New Publication - 
“American Women” is a new­born publication which promises to.grow into an ' important .
what It was and why, “but It seems to be an interesting one—- one which will tend to a greater recognition of the accoipplisliments The purpose of the to supply t record of le women have entered, the variousthe achievements of . the women
Model RooiqI 
To Be Erected
Frameless Construction! 
Will Be Employed
—CH AH R LHESAUD—eU
Building Has Been Design 
By Carnegie Instructor
bltion day by a model room wtov Is to be erected in. front of Machia, ery hall. The design of this roo«» is the product of Walter N. Stolen Instructor in the Départaient ni Architecture' tind Building Co* Blruction at Carnegie.
Dimensions of tho room, 
will have a base ' of sheet ¡stegt panel tilling unite, are 12 feotbyn feet with a 9 foot céiMog. it wjn be placed on the walk just in iron; <f the Machinery hall walk vrlib --------j— taclng the liall am
Apt roof, will shade the canopies ,and a double dow, Mr. Stulen says, are fealur^ employing the cantilever —• •which- bis 'design allows.
Mr, Stulen has been a 
his present type of building co> strucUou for about two and years. Although it. comes 
the classification of frameless ecu-
v pal'tal
struction, Mr. Stulen.beli his technique,''for which' has been applied, is entiruly The units, consisting of sheet slei and small angle Irons, can be fab I cated at a factory- and weldeii tt gether on tho job. No bolls s rivets are used for tbe cousin*, (ion which is spot-welded throngk out. Only two-thirds of a squan foot of metal are needed tn 16c6 one square foot of; superficial sur­face according to the designer.
The room will rest on a cast In« base which is being cast in Uu foundry - under the - direction - ot William H. Dosey, instructor fa foundry practice. , To this attached the walla and floor ol Keystone copper bearing steel.
phases of public life. The ; _ _ publication, will enable these mv men to enjoy the prestige and ceive the national recognition do« them. Women who have obtained distinction in governmental affairs as well as civic leaders, profession­al women, business loaders, edu­cators' artiste, writers, sci« leaders in- charitable organization^ etc., are eligible to' have their‘bio­graphies recorded in “American Women.” ' Among the biographla
Helen .Keller, Anne IM bergh, Helen Wills Moody, France Perkins, Mary Plekford, Rosa Pea-
many other distinguished woi
.VO s2y
I’ll never let you down
There’s nothing friendly about the 
sharp, bitter sting of unripe top to­
bacco leaves. There’s nothing friendly 
about the grimy, flavorless bottom 
leaves. But there's a wealth of friend- 
"liness; of mihmess in -the-rich,-
HE CENTER 1EAVES«««if 
CENTER LEAVES GIVE YOU THE MILDEST SMOKE
mellow-ripe center leaves. And I 
am made of these fragrant, expen­
sive center leaves, only.
I’ll not irritate your throat. I’ll 
never let you down. I'm your best 
-friend.-I'-am- your -uueky -Strike;

---------------------------------------------------

THE 
Til ES DAY 
QUARTERBACK- 
® © '
BY JERRY HANSÓN
THIS CÁBNEGIE TARTAN; TOËSDAY; MÀRCH 12. 1935 : _ ^ __ _ . ..
Carnegie Coaching Quake to Shake Foreign Soil
Tartans Cheer I ~ ’ r" • * -- lTiiî«i„.ria<1e
U—... •-----!”----------.j i9vet MY BEST to- get advanced dope about the coaching shakeup 
Dut would our Graduate Manager let it out? You bet me your bools 
He wouldn't. And-after' it was oil out, came the 'JJartau, tomewhat 
Btale. Mr. Overend apologized very nicely, however, explaining that the 
downtown papers had released tbe Info contrary to agreement, and he 
elated that tie had wanted the- Tartan to have it first, anyway—so 
everything was hunkydory, I guess.
IX. |6 ALL RATHER EXCITING, this new lease on football life. It 
really does'look like a pretty nifty setup/and with.a program which 
will concentrate on 'spring practice and piit more emphasis on plèbe 
coaching—two things which have been notably neglected In the past- 
th* Tartans may expect to conquer new lands In the future.
1 HAD THE PLEASURE of meeting the new line coach, Joe Bach, yes­
terday noon. A very husky and good-natured fellow, he seemed. He 
message for the Tartans, os follows:
¦‘1 am very happy to. be associated with an institution of learning 
that enjoys the floe reputation that Carnegie Tech doss in this district, 
end I am sure that because of my many years of acquaintanceship with 
tbe members of its Athletic Association that I will enjoy my connection 
with Its coaching', staff.:. This is particularly true because of my per­
sonal friendship with my immédiate superior. Head Coach Howard 
Harpster, with whom I will co-operate in giving the Tartans the best 
we possibly can for ’35." . ,
Jos says further that he has felt friendly towards the Tartans ever 
since he played against them in J2? and ’24, when he was playing with 
the Irish- I quote him again: "Every Noire Dame man always had 
high respect for a Carnegie leam. -Rockne and Steffen created a friend­
ship between the'schools which has lasted even to today/’
I assured Mr. Bach that the feeling: was mutuel, and that he could 
rely on my word for It that the students extend him a welcome straight 
from tbe heart 1 will have the pleasure of talking further with him 
' tomorrow night, for I am to Interview him for a few minutes on the 
Quarter Hour. Aré ya listenin’?
THE PRIDE AND JOY OF AN UPPER FORBES STREET fraternity 
(“Racetrack Charlie, 'alias’ Don Dare"), swimmer de luxe, etcetera,
• etcetera, wishes It to be known to one and air that his editorial com* 
ment In last week’s swimming story, forecasting the outcome of the 
E. C. S. A. meet, was 0*KAŸ, underlined.
The young Scot gives the following gingery highlights of the 
meat: Sola, F. •&. M.'s untrained and untamed wonder, drawing the 
comment of the crowd with his platinum blonde, hair and 24.5 fifty—Pat 
Carr running around wlth'an alibi for everything—Ruse Llndberg look­
ing tired—Coaches spraining legs as they kick themselves for not en­
tering medley relay. teams—Steinberg's halr-graytng 440, victory ovet 
Llndy—Much wonder about the diving decision—Sola's Frank Merrl 
well act In the 400-yard relay—Aekley,Kampus King Kong, having the 
time of his life—they let him stand around and yell his head off.
INCIDENTALLY THERE! WILL BE A MEETING of all intramural 
swim managerstoday- at 4:20.ln the .Trophy Room—very important. -
Staff Changes
Experienced Mentors 
Will Bolster Squad
BACH IS LINE COACH
Davies Takes Frosh Reins; 
CampuB Lites Rewarded
Ah earthquake, they call il, and well'might it be classified as such, for the - Carnegie - coaching 'situa­tion, recently appearing to be scuttling in 'the: doldrums, is sud­denly taking on new life and‘is blooming out with a brilliancy comparable to tbe blossoming exhi­bited by Dame Nature herself at this same season of the year. Yes sir, It looks like spring in the coaching history of the Tartan sports world. And the 'quake is sure to make itself felt all. over this part of the country—at least in the grid contests next fall in which the Tartans wiil be facing,. tbe scheduled opposition.. Skibo [
Quintets Meet 
In Semi-Finals
McGill Plays Theta Xi 
Tonight in Gym
DELTS DRAW BYE
Winner Touiglit Will Play 
D.T.D. Next Week
Basketball Season Finishes 
As Tartans Lose to, Dukes
I Joe Macalka Elected 
C iptain of 1935-36 
Scottish Cagers
long time for news like this.Pro Coach Added Joe Bach, last year’s head coach Duquesne University, where his
i, Pittsburgh. Pirate 
mentor, who has been signed up as Head Line Coach and assistant to Head Coach Howard . Harpster. Bach will start tutoring the.Tar: ith the beglnlng of spring
ictlcApril
Athletic Council Chooses 
Grid Coaches and Managers
Schmid, Marino Given 
Grid Managerships;
Letters Awarded ,
The Carnegie AthleUb Council held an Important- meetipg March 5,1936, In the Carnegie Commons. The most pertinent., decision made' at tbls meeting WM..the.selection of the 1935 footballrcoaching, staff, based on the recommendations of a committee composed ot . Mr. Laboon, Chairman^ - Mr. Lanahan, Dr. Marks, M,r. Lee, and. Mr; Over* end. A story regarding the staff selected by the council appears 
elsewhere on this .page.
The council elected ' David Schmid Varsity Football Manager for 1935. Jobs A.- Marino Freshman Manager, and carried a motion to the effect that Donald Sullivan and Harry Shannon- beplaced as- ntSBf tigers in some of the. other sports where & vacancy occurs,' in order that they may earn their Varsity "C." It was also- carried that In the future the . Athletic. Council should elect all -football 'Captains ftnd that the-election-of.a. captain for nett year be tabled until the •next meeting.
Basketball players Rlgg, Ewall, James, patt, Felser, Fitzwileon. Ma­calka, Splzak, Shomo, Kritscher, and- Coxr-UTid-WIlKaiö^Davlß.-Aarv Blty BaBkelball Manager, were nwarded the. Varsity .Major C.Varsity Swimming Team, members 
von der Lancken, Holiday, Der* deyn, Leavitt,'. Charles, . ¡Dennison,- Culler, Boutell, Heatley, HammeT- echmldt and Bright, and Manager Charles Ackley .-were awarded the. 
Varsily Minor “C:” .
Swim Summaries 
Cover All Finals
300 yard medley relay—Wonby Franklin and . Marshall (Gordon Chalmers, - Don Chalmers, Sola) > Carnegie. ...Tech,^second. _ T.Itne
¡40 yard freestyle—‘Won- by Steinberg, C. C. N. Y.; Lindherg. Pitt, second; Garrison, Swatjh- more, third*' Hayes, Manhattan, fourth, Tfmer-6:1&2.Go yard’freestyle—Won hy Solo, franklin and -Marshall;. Stouflett, Lafayette, second; Elilnon.Lehlgh, third; Ruhe. Pitt. fourth. Time— 24.7.220 yard freestyle—Won hy Mur- of M&'nbstian".CoH*gVr-<3ulMy'- Lafayette, second;-' Carter, : George Washington, -. third; Hensler, Laf­ayette, fourth. ^rTlme^2:24.fl;:..', -:200 yard breaststroke—-Won hy
Ghormley, . GeorgeWashington; Wetzel, Franklin and MarBhall, see* on.<J; Rice, Swarthmore, third: 
Vonder Lancken, • Carnegie Tech, fourth. Time—2:44.150 yard backstroke^rWon < by Gordon Chalmers, • Franklin ' and, Marshall College; Holiday,; Ca'tne-X tfe Tech,-second; Crbas/Delaware, third; Jones, U=i?ereityr'oLi'PUt»', bur. h fourth Time—1 49 fc
Plaid Boxers 
Lose at W-Va*
Arrangements M&y Bring 
Amateur Club Here
Carnegie's boxing' team traveled 
> West Virginia on Thursday aid ¡turned home with thè short end ot '¦ à • G-I “score. The. boys from {Morgantown had the. edge on the I .Plaid in experience, and a standing for the paÿt three years that has ;en them on top in the district. 
The West Virginia squad has not tost .a match, in three • years, : and- for-all' Ernie Sesto can tell, will 'not lese, one for the next three. However, that, does not mean that the lads front; Garnégle Tech did not show up'well.- The judging .of- a boiit-is a difficult thing, and there may be very ‘JUl6.'actqal “difference between ' two boxers, yet the de­cision: cannot give the loser any credit, .. • .'• *
I ' ' Captafin .. : Bill- • • Kulesz came I'through...to ,win the only bout là <^-favi>p--Hit-^he---Sklboa.__He foyphtwell and got quite a hand-for his I perform anòei Ely, fighting against _tlie captain, also turned -in à good account of'himeelû . Ely, -who is a sophomore; has teen matched against the captains of the teams in two' out of the last three events. Mike Restalne went ' two' rounds even with his man until .the Moun­taineer . drew away • In the final round. Ray Wisniewski, who is also a sophomore, was. entered against the champ in his weight in 
the district.Tho. tentativo Aiatchès with W. and' J. and Pitt that were mention­ed' last week, bave bèen called off. Washington and Jefferson doesn’t care'.for a return match,, and PiU 
college has had too hard ule this year to take
the approaching season. Bach re* ceived his football degree under, the tutulogo of none othtr lhan the ramous Knute Rockne at Notre Dame. His -.past - record of sky rocket accomplishment demands highest' reBpect. and Coach Harp­ster may very well be living in high spirits over the addition of Bach to his staff.Joe Bach will be line coach for the Tartans during spring practice, which will begin April 1. Bach .also holds the reigns of the Pitts­burgh Pirates, local pro football­ers, and in the fall he will divide bis time between the Pirates-and Tarlans, serving mainly as a scout along with the Tartan veteran it that line, A1 Irwin.
Davies Handles Frosh Another flower in Harpster’i
1916 from the University of Pitts burgh, as coach for the freshman team. The Tartans have-In a* way neglected the tutoring of the plebe footballers in' the past, putting them in the hands of graouate. grid i who have been more or less perlenced in the art of coach; me,. -Davies has led a successful I coaching career which saw.action at Allegheny. Geneva, and^ Roches­ter He resigned his post at Ge­neva College last' September, but finished his contract which ran through to. November. Davles ia ¿protege of the Warner system, and Bach, of. course; uses tne
. Rockne system which he as an undergraduate and ln_his
capacity as an assistant to Elmer 
Layden.Reward Irwin, Mlhm, Dolowa 
A1 Irwin, assistant to Gradu Manager Ovevend and scouting pert for the TarUins, has been ;orded with the post of assistant arsity coach. “Ace” Irwin-Is credited as an accomplished grid analyst, and his new post is sim­ply in recognition of bis post serv-
the Tartan mentors.
- As of the past, outstanding stars Trom tbe graduating class have been given posts on the coaching staff. This yoaT two of the team’s hardest and most consistent grid stars, Joe Mllim and Cliff Doloway. have been added to the staff. Mihnx
coach for the plebe candidates. — '-‘-lligent football men. hard workers.Bothind both •*.„ ----------And so the Tartan fans . u.' *. cheering in anticipation of a steady 1 climb back into the glorious king­dom. of football recognlUou. With .a schedule similar to last season’s, with plenty of tough ones chalked down, and a coaching . program
By Johnny Weinberg 
Theta Xi will meet McGill Hnll 
..iis evening in tliersemt-Jlnnl 
test of the 293S Intramural Bnskot- 
competition. These“ 
teams, winners of their respective 
leagues,- \vlll play as a result of 
the third league winner. Delta Tftu 
Delta drawing ot a bye in the 
selection of the semi-final contest­
ants. ’ Delta Tau Delta last week 
defeated Kappa' Sigma by threo 
points In a pl&yolf game to break 
, a tie In their league. • 1 
I Finals Next Week
Thé winner of the game between 
Theta Xi and the McGUlltes will 
meet the Delts next week in the 
ilnai contest. It hes- been ’.quite 
time since m competition has 
been marked by such evenly 
matched teams. Thotn XI and Mc­
Gill were both undefeated in their 
respective, leagues, while the boys from. Clyde street had just one tie by their neighbors the Kappa Sigs lo mar their otherwise clean slate.
No Set Up6 
Taking the teams on a selective basis for comparison, one finds it very difficult to find one outstand­ing team. Perhaps Thêta XI might be given the-edge because of tlièir xcellently • balanced live. This earn is a smooth working unit oth on the offense and the de> ense, which its record of over- »helmln'g victories shows. On the other hand, McGill and the Dell | bunch will be no set ups. McGill Is very last and Its ranks are. marked by the presence or two or three virtual sharpshooters. Delta Tau Deltarlaât year’s champs, are plenty big and plenty fast, and •o determined lo repeat their >89 of the 1034-campaign.
One thing Js. certain however, these two final games.will be thrill-
Women9s Athletics
'-----by-----
MARGIE GREEN
bang, and all the hopes and ilea are ovor tor 'another yoar. With the final gun of the Duquesne game last Tuesday, tho season of­
ficially ended. ,Macalka Elected Captain Afier the game with the Dukes, Joe. Macnlka was elected captntu of the basketball team for next year. 'Joe has built up quite n record in his three- years at Carnegie, and undoubtedly deserves to be houor- ed by being elected to the captain­cy. In his freshman year, he war one of the stars on the Plobe oul lit, and piled up quite a few point at his position as forward. In hU next year, his first on tbe Vtfrslt. ie started out well at-the beijln- ding of the season, but was soon token out by the well-known wreck­er of Turluu basketball teams, the Ineligibility jinx. .This year, how­ever. without anything to keep hit», off the. team, he played groat ball, eivrnhig .for himself this special honor • which has been awarded...... Macalka . succeeds ' Captain| Ted. Rlgg, who with Johnny Ewnlt have played their last for Curne- gie. These two boys are the only seniors os the present squad.
The 1934-35 season has been one of which Carnegie fans may well he proud, although it may not be described as being highly victori­ous. But the team was good with greater consistency than it r;a the previous year, and in spite of the fact that the number of victories does not equal the number o? -de­feats, the outfit was repeatedly recognized as one of the strongest in this district by its opponents. Considering that this was a season of an' unusually large number of outstanding floor squads, the record which the Tartans made against their opposition is one about which
ers, with three, teams. -----—these competing for honors'in tho most prominent of intramural sports. The' victors will have good reason to boast winning the
they may boast.- Panthers In the Easto.n and City leogues. the Scots did not shine particularly, for it was hero that theso exceptional squads niet. In the first of theso — leagues the Tarlans lost two gamo3 each to pltt and WeBt Virginia, and broke even with Georgetown and Temple; in tho City League, the total was four losses, two each to Pltt and Duquesne. AgalnBt each other, the Panthers' and' the Dukes each rated one win and one defeat,
Joe Macalka, who was ently honored by his teammates
Thin ly-CI ads 
I Show Strength
Athletic AssociationFixes 
Cinder Path
MANAGERS CALLED
Schedule to Be Announced 
By Coach Next Week
One of -the largest lom’noiUa in i- , e/ira answered the call for track candidates on last Thursday. From ' these Coach Guy Uulferty expects to form a much larger nnd consid­erably stronger squad than Cnrne* • c has had 4or several seasons. - The Athletic association has made arrangements to re-surfuco the track In the Dowl and improve- the.track facilities further as soon .. as the season begins. Plans have. been laid lo put a new cinder top over the running Irnck nnd fence . the road at the far end ot the field so that no cars can come onto U nnd wear ruts In the trock.s 
The veterans who reported this, year ure: Captain CUohna, a con­sistent winner last year in the mid-> die distances, and sure to be a v09p peater this year; > Brown,. experi­enced weight man; Fritz, pole, vault, and Crllz. Koch also report*, ed, as did Bubln, who is the oroiss- country captain and will run the distances.
From last yoar’s freshman team . Hall and Cross will fill in at the weights, and Fltzwllaon is expect*'1 ed to compete In the javelin throw. Cnmblor. who showed up weir in - the dashes for' the froshmen -last year, will be u welcome addition to tho varsity squad this season, fils ; actlvltlcB also extend to tho broad- - I jump. In which he can give a gobii | account of himself. Hugh James
so that they tlod for the City Cham­
pionship.
Tho fact that many , of the games „ere lost by very narrow margins gave the Tartan cagers a reputa­tion with the city .basketball fans which resultod in a build-up of In­terest In the team nnd large tendance at the games.
Eleven men received their let- 
i9 at the end of the season. They Ted Rigg. Johnny . Bwalt,
i m the mile Bill Beall Is expected t- show moro of the form he display*.
been announced yot, but Coooh iHaltorty promises, an Interesting;, card for the varsity. The schedule" will be announced In next week's, issue of the Tartun. As in the: past, the freshman’teams will meot;
teams from surroum schools.The call for freshmanhaB beon iBsued arid it Is expected- that quite u few'will take the óp-.. portunlty- to earn a major letter:;!!) '-
‘Hugh .Tames, Babe Patt, Cy Felser,Charley Fitzwlison, Joe Macalk.t,Charley Spisak', Les 9bomo, Andy Kritscher, and Jake Ebn. QeovgeW. Davis, manager of the Varsity, ut. uui ««« .... —--------was also awarded the Varsity DlngeT in the equipment office ntthe Field House.
. Goodness me-^toat a thrilling tournament- we basketballers play­ed last week. In fact, it was most colossal. What with half ot the scheduled players not showing up, and to top It off Manager Warner bed all week—well, draw your own conclusions. The only score- tliat. I know anything about was the one for the Junior-Senior game, and.out.of'loyalty and respect to class, Td rather not men- iiiuii overt that .(dire threats often I /Inspire - remarkable' loyalty). Tho Seniors claim that -the odds were about- even for both teams since they didn’t have any substitutes and we couldn’t produce a jump center; but if I wanted to be a poor sport, I could mention the fact that game between a team of 'secre-
r:w'
"C'mels ar<* »ade fr^jn finer, more*expetisivé'"tobaccos .*• 
Turkish and .Domestic - then "any other popular Ijrand.^ »..J
. (Signed) E. J.' REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPSHY/ 
Vtaston-Salém, ScJftll Carolina*
taries andcomposed of
dJLional• It'is to be regretted that tbe bo*ingT.eain "did,‘notrgat the ehanee to
show Ita^wnres in. the home ring- Coach. Ernie, Sesto is ¿making an I effort at present to engage an am­ateur team to come , to the Carne* ele rym for an exhibition match as soon as possible. If the plans I carry, through the fights [the altemoon. and wlirgive^the. school .a cfia.nc& to: see the 9^ in action for the first time this
veralty of PUtalurBli.Carey,; University-.,;0f ; Delaware, 
third; - Stewart, Lehigh, fourth, 
Timfrr-.’Wsi.-.--/: . -''v -.¡Fancy diving tptals—Won by McQuillan of -University of Pitts­burgh : Brubaker, -Franklin andMarshall,.. . second; L Borrowsman, Lafayette, third; Meyers, Univer­sity:^ Pittsburgh, fourth. ,
| . 400 -'yard freestyle relay-Won
“iis .tSSSSM SffS
ence students and home ecs. would create an unbalanced situation in itself. .Since i could never stoop to being catty, however. I'll Just (skin the remark. Regardless of whom we should have far i-ceir-- ter, ft would ¡take a “Stretch James” to compete ‘ with Heleu Slckenberg.... All. she needs to do is to tip the ball gently over to Kitty Conti and, quick like a mouse, the seniors have another basket., There’s no stopping them, sophs;| you'll have to do some pretty-tall playing this week if . you want to cop that championship,
. The W.. A. A. Social. Calendar, looks very promising for the nett month or so. AgneB Stephans Is planning a..very novel roller skat­ing party for Mferch 29, and liotty I Booth Ua In charge of the annual swimming party for April 13. If you are wise, you'll keep these .dates, open, and stand by for fur- 
I ther details.
Panther Escapes 
Plaid Rifle Team,
Tech's rifle team, continued its winning 'ways by making a., clean sweep of eight postal matches con- i tested Iast./wieek. The Plaid marka- | men scored 1,930 and were follow­ed-by C...C.N. Yi'.wlth 1,3?8;:V. M.I. wlth 1,34?; Drexel Institute.withII.366; and Ihe lower scores/of' the 
! other four t-cams.-^ .However la & match with Pitt, shot. on the Panther range,-, the Tartans , did not fare go well. The ,-Pltt squad hung up a 1,38^,367 victory over the Skibo.sharpshoot-
k
m me women rifle circles,'.Mary.ettach scored second in'the Wo*, men's Intercollegiate • Individual Match.- The Carnegie girls also I placed - Blxtb, seventh, eighth, I twelfth,"and .fifteenth.- In a match wlth Marylandy Pehn State, Cali for nia, and OkIahoma;r the, Plaid wo pien chalked up anoOier 500 lo coi

---------------------------------------------------

NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, IN 
1«O^North^lehlBBO Aven««, Cble**»
ñl___• ..II___JULIAN F. MTJNSTEB___________________SOT HIN ET______ttABOLD J. BAB!!______JEROHE HANSONMARCAHET G BIFFIN DUDLET D. PENDLETON
. CHiton Bontelte. . Emil? Knnttr,
Elisabeth Stuart, 1REPORTERS : Toby Croas, Loulao Baldr. Alpha Blaek, Lewis Briner, Dorolbr Booth. Lola Homer. William
CIRCULATION STAFF: L. Gursha, AwieUH
Mitchell, A. Piendes, Ebtvtaiv. L. Hardin,. TYPISTS: Helen SiclMniy Lou Schlayer.. STAFF ARTISTS: C.Fuller. Sama«
Avoid A ShowdownI
NTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL seemB de- 
termined to fight it out with Student coun- 
. cilfor control of this year's Formal. And all 
the CREDIT we hitherto had given it for 
. standing up for its rights In regard lo all fu­
ture Interfraternity BallsT is DISCREDITED 
now because of this lack of discretion on their 
fparL
Jonathon Swift’s traveling Gulliver came 
'.across a race of people who had a remarkably 
I efficient method for settling disputes such as 
these. Surgical operations would be performed 
. ôn the two contestants whlcli would remove 
-their occuplts. Then taking half the brains of 
: each arguer and placing It in the other’s head 
. ,the two contestants after a short space of time
• would find themselves in complete accord— 
HAVING UNDERSTOOD THE OTHER'S 
POINT OF VIEW so clearly.
If such a mythical, fantastic operation could 
, ;_be performed on these two dissenting bodies, 
how much harm could be avoided!
• If Interfraternlty council could only realize 
•;i that Student council, having thé authority over
• interfraternlty council granted them on the 
''hookfl, and 'HAVING EXERCISED IT
THROUGHOUT, could not release it upon the 
SHORT NOTICE given it by Interfraternlty 
‘ council; and certainly cannot it release it now
• : without n tremendous blow to its prestige and
.;--pow.er. The facta are so clearly- before us that 
. TO ÀVOID FACING THEM can only be termed 
: as rmgN and Interfraternity..council- is- stub- 
i^borhly 'disregarding them. /
• i> ^To challenge Student council’s authority Is
to. cause that authority to be EXERTED TO 
'-.THE UTMOST, and that can only result in 
;<;i;SERIOUS HARM to one of the organizations.
The most prudent move is the wisest move. 
?• - it’a as clear as the air In the stratosphere—
• ¦ the important thing, is to AVOID A SHOW­
DOWN.
A Logical SafeguardD
R. ROBERT A. MILL! KAN. renowned
........scientist; proved himself a man of keen
insight and vision when he said that subver- 
'¦?_. slve forces from -within will kill Hberty or 
civilization “unless the American people 
V.,'create an,educated and Intelligent electorate.”
: v^what this country- needs, then, even more 
;• than the’well known "good flve-cent cigar” is 
just such an -‘educated and Intelligent elec-
• -torate” that will .prevail against the rising 
.tide of dictatorships.
• ''/Paralleling muchly the growth of the cen-- 
¦/i; traU2atlon of control of industry, the spirit of 
--•"dictatorships has grown in the world of gov-
'.erriment and politics to alarming proportions 
l’ -r-preying upon the ignorant aud Illiterate, ap- 
r.'Vpealing to masa emotions:
; -Dictatorships arise out of mass helpless- 
rirrtiii AmrTlfíVn roliat T'ox’“v
¦;:í;Ie9s. If demoracy Is to prevail and liberty to 
:’’ :be; maintained,, a safeguard must he used. 
;Á¿jyT?¿at- safeguard is massintelligence In the 
? /form oí votes that will enable the'masses to 
;;. defend their own rights and supply ttife quick;'
concentrated democratic judgment necessary 
: ; :tb;beep & complex industrial civilization bit-' 
J j'itJng. on all IB cylinders.
LÜISiYou’re emphatically and undeniably right, 
-'•-Dr. MlUIban. We wish your words could 
.-reach every college administration in the 
country.
job of'creating an "educated and intelli- 
. gent electorate” must include education in 
gbyernment, current day problems and civics. 
:, :In t2ie movement to have these courses taught 
:V inevery high school and college in the coun- 
the institutions of higher learning must 
|^iead^.Jthe; way,. Th« .so.o5.er they do_, the soon;, 
¿r;; we can feel. projected against mass help­
lessness. '
^ What is Being Ssid
^We have • grown soft. We do not like the 
^'word 'sacrifice! It suggests inconvenience, 
li^hevttme-has come for us to learn from those 
h., politic^.; ^n^_xg]Jifisus. §on-_ 
is.’we^constantly reject as untrue and 
{^ttMtroctlve. Nazi Fascist and Communist 
^¦howadevotlou to - a cause which puts our 
domesticated patriotism to shame, 
jlt-ls not sufficient to be known as. "good.
‘must be. good . for. something. 
T^Oor greater problem is the'number of lntelli- 
C^ntpeople who are morally unemployed.— 
\®i*hop Ernest M. Stires.
Secretary of State Cordell. Hull: Extreme
¦IlMAlUni, It persisted: in. is destlued soon to: 
i:S^cti^^of,W
TOMORROW FOR THE YOUNG MEN OF 
FRANCE 
By Edward Price Bell •
Paris:—
Young academic France solid against war, 
fervidly national yet sanely International, 
overwhelmingly for the preservation in France 
of a clvilzation which Is French and which Is 
free.
That would seem to be about the core of the
Diversities of sentiment and thought in 
France are almost numberless. Feeling and 
conviction and expression are 6trong from 
oae end to (he other of 'the political, social, 
and economic diameter. This Is true not only 
of the academic youth; it is true of all ele* 
ments of the French population, In the cities 
and in.tho country. France is on the verge of 
great politico-economic changes. Nobody 
knows from day to day what will happen, and everyone talks of the possibility of “la guerre civile” (civil war).
But Qt> one wants either civil war or inter­national war, least of ell. the youth, and espec-
French. sLudents, stout-limbed, bright-eyed, ar­dent, brilliant, in a Paris class-room—say a class-room of l'Ecole Normale Supérieure or l’Ecole Polytechnique—and ask:
"Does any one of you believe in war?”, 
“No!” with a roar that shatters all chance of question.
'•Yes; differences many and grave.”
A towering, lanky, dark-young man rises in the center of the group, and speaks In rapid- Are French:
"Noue avons beaucoup d'ldees différentes que nous soutenons avec passion, mais nous voulons y penser et les etudier; noUB avons besoin non nous 6e battre, mais nous s'enten­dre.”
want to fight about them; we want to think about them, to understand one another.")
“You feel important governmental develop­ments are Imminent?" —
The towering young man replies:
"Qul; la treve actuelle n’est pas durable.” (“The present truce of parlies cannot lAst.”) 
Such are the sentiments and the will of young academic France, so eager, so impetu­ous even, so rich in bodily and mental vigor,
channels within Jules Romains isdeclares: (Nous pouvons nouB reveille main avec la guerre civile.") ("We may e tomorrow in civil- war.") However, deter­mined efforts are on foot for understanding and approximation, lest France awake morning to find herself,- not only in civil but under the threat, as. the former Pre Doumergue affirmed, of invasion.
One of the gifted and convinced partiel-
perieure, a Normalien. He is tall, spare, wiry, add energetic, with black halr;‘and piercing, friendly brown eyes, a young man of Dutch extraction, far back, a thorough Frenchman in appearance and spiritual quality. He is a prominent member of Jeune Republlque. an organization which stands about midway be­tween the extremists of French politics, and an organization which is active In the pacifac- lory movement. M. Hoog belongs to “le Groupe dn '9 Juillet” (“The Group of the Ninth of July”), composed of nineteen men, represent­ing a great diversity of opinion, who have agreed upon a “Minimum Plan” for the form of conditions In the realm of French po­litical economy.
“You agree,” was suggested to him In a pri­vate talk, "with those wlio hold that war is no solution for anything, is utterly disastrous?” 
"Entirely."
“War has no glamor for French students?"
“There is nothing in the notion, frequently met, that the iniquities and calamities of war mean little or less to the rising generation?'1
"We are acutely conscious of them all. They are burned into us, not only by what we have read and witnessed iu pictures, hut by what we personally have seen of their results, and by our own study and'reasoning.”
'.'So you are lighting ’la guerre civile’?” 
“With all our strength.” - 
“Ana war o( every kind?"
“Every kind.”
"Hopefully?”
“Not, • despairingly, certainly, though: the
; “Do you fear Germany?”
^Germany hangs above us like an avalanche, ilhé. wajyj -are-made -hard., and sniooth^ritiU .ways and -highways—for the possible descent :of tbit avalanche upon us. as It has descend­ed upon us several times in the past, leaving permanent ‘ scars upon our national memory. Remember Germany. Is a' very heavy ava­lanche, and very close to us. Remember you can lunch in Paris, and, traveling at a moder­ate speed in an automobile, dine in Germany. Remember-the people of Germany outnumber ours almost two to one. Remember Germany’s war-llke potentialities exceed those of France by a tremendous margin. Naturally, we fear Germany. • Naturally, preoccupation with the German danger'dominates our minds and'de- termlnes our political policies. Anything like parity of 'armaments between Germany and France means. French insecurity, an Intolera­ble peril to France, unless other great Powers stand by our side. Hence .our long-UTged plea for a definite, and irrefrangible organization of
“And. yet, in spite of all that has happened. In spite of the savage invasions, and In spite of the nearness to us of this mighty mass of German strength, young academic France de­sires to see lear and hatred of Germany dis­appear from this country.' These feelings barm us. They distract us from, domestic problems. They' are a brake upon our;, prog­ress. We want mutual sympathy and trust between Germans and oureelves, .as we want these' sentiments between other nations .and ourselves; we afé.TiothTn^hopVáhd In filth,' Internationalists; ' We want our own national' ity, the Independence and integrity of our own civilisation, and .we want .’other peoples to have theirs.. Hence we are.dlBincllned to rush headlong against'Hitler, to condemn-him. out of hand. There has beeu a revolution in Ger­many, and ravotations-often aro marked by tragic and terrible things.'. : Hitler has been at the helm only two. years.- We prefer] tb be forbearing while tie world awaits the real his­torical measure of the man.”
"What, as you see It, Is the actual situation In: France at the moment?”
It is a-situation'of.confusion, of demorall-
“Hello!” he said.“Hello!” she said."I'm going away.”“Away?”“To Chicago. Tonight. I got a job. My train leaves at nine and 1 haven’t packed yet.”
and talked; but nothing they said matter­ed, and It didn't really matter what they said.“He's going awoy, and there's a smudge on my cheek and my heir is mussed,” she thought.So while they talked, she powdered her face and took down her hair to comb it. But she didn't pin it up again, because she remembered how he loved to bury his face . in the scented softness of it.“Well—I have to be going now.” He held out his hand. "Good-bye,” he said.“Good-bye,” she said, and look his hand In both of hers. “Good luck!”He opened the door and walked out into the ball. The'vast emptiness within her contracted and twisted itself into n great hurt. It was such a meager "good-bye.”But he turned, and bis arms went around her In thé old way, and the ache within her melted as she snuggled against tbe familiar roughness of his coat. And then he wns murmuring things, and she was murmuring things — sweet, meaningless things that made warm, little nestling sounds as they mingled; His face was so close to hers, that all she could- see waa his warm, gleaming 6mlle, and 6—3 thought of how cold It would be without
Once again he was he “Good-bye,” he said.*
the ...teoi’S rolled into the towel, and Bho cried And cried into thè gentle fuzzinese of It.She looked at her newly polished shoes. They were as bright as the black’’ boy's white smilo when she'd given him a ten- cent tip tor a flve-cent shine—In such:good spirits had shé'béen a short while ago. It was silly for them to be sblny now. She kicked them off, and they went bump­ing across the room like clumsy, fright­ened things. She opened the closet and looked at the gay, new dress. *It was ab harsh and motley now. And again, she was weeping and weeping . InLo the soft
Suddenly the phone rang, and it was someone else.“Hello!” he said.“Hello!” she said."What are you doing tonight?”"Nothing.”“Fine! I’ll be over at nine.”“Fine.” ;"Good-bye!" - , : \
i powdered and powdered her’face with an extra dab Or two on the reddened tip of her nose, and she picked up one shoe that had landed In the hall and crawled under the bed to get the other shoe, and she took the gay, new dress out of the closet, and gave her little brother a
Anally she was ready.
Then she gave her nose another dab of powder, and her hair an extra pin, and her dress another twist.--. She went to look ¿t the time, then she came back and looked at herself again, and fluffed-up her. hair a
. knock at the door. She ^opened it and he came in- "Hello!” he aald.“Hello!” she said.MURA KLIACHKO.
agricultural—and wiantly agricultural—___ ________ „ _____out. for clear fight, stability, and- a plain, road of prosperous advance. There Is no wide­spread loss of confidence in our Republican Ideals or institutions, the loss of confidence is in many of. our leaders, and in our Parliamen­tary practices. We require In’our leaders elx basic qualities: honesty, wisdom, efficiency,, energy, courage, and'clcrity of action; ~ quire in> our Parliament non-obstruction for obstruction’s sake. We waut a riddance of its excessive egotism, Its frivolity, its penchant for oustiug Governments on.-pretext's of moment to the nation. We want a reasonable Parliament,.responsive to nothing but a sense-of—the-national weHarer'1--------“You have Royalism 7”
“Yes; but.Royalism Is extremism. We have also Fascism, political ;and-ect*nomic,...buLJFasi cism, too, is extremism. We have likewise other forms of extremism; Agrarianism, Syndi­calism, Radicalism, Communism. We have. In other words, the Right Right and the Left Left, and we have elements bordering, these. We have, in addition, many forms of Socialism. - But the French natldn, in my. judg­ment, is neither extremist nor Socialist^ but Centrist, Republican, devoted to Republican traditions and principles,'and out to maintain' them, but equally resolute to make thei
wealth. All the reforms we need are, I think, realizable within the framework of the Re­public.""Is your Fascism virtually identical with that of Italy and that of England“No; It is sui generis, French. France, to be sure, Is racially Latin, but with a distinct- •character 'and* intelleetuaf habit' of ita" 'own. Its emotions and Ideas and purposes are of the soil, 60 to speak. Moreover, Italy has her
“And Communism?’"Communism cannot take root in France. It -Is. repugnant to thé individualism which Is •Iados*ita&!e -ÏVec-eh- -4rsiir-;r lt - is -iittorl>- aUisn
or French Republicanism- In Russia, than can change a Frenchman into a Slav or a Slav into a Frenchman. These biological, spiritual, and political miracles are beyond hiiman pow­er. 'There is'just one bottom reason-why .Frenchmen never will have Communism or Fascism or any other - form of extremism?- their, most stubborn native- repugnance is to
llbertycons is tent, with law ujd order and i cial -Jiutìc«.. v H« -will Worship., bo anthropo-
bination of jbitter, almostsatires and tender, playful let- from the pen of one Jonathan Swift have provided students of ighteenth-century men and letters ith much material- for conjecture nd controversy. Warren P. Mun- sell, Jr., in hl3 “Rich Man, Poor Man,” which is receiving its pre- performance at the Little r this v
< by . - _completely the ll?bt, fanciful side of the man, and interpreting bim under the somewhat pompous yet exact label of d "realistic idealist.” 
Swift here as a man who sets forth from his'-little Irish icarage aflame with a desire to gain' power and thus reform the orld, and who returns disappoint­ed and embittered, his previous impatience with his fellowmcn heightened to a veritable hatred of nil but a few intimates.
Gives Story Of Career The story of his various friend­ships is interwoven with the story
sented a full-length portrait of the with all. his Inconsistencies— ivowed hatred of mankind and his unfailing ability to make true friendships; his unceasing strug­gle for an idea] (what a character ;n the play terms rather vaguely "the perfect man”) and bis intense desire for a very real reward (In the form of an English deanery); his skilful advancement of the par­ty he serves and his deplorable failure to advance himself, mate­rially, at least.
Other characters in the play
who recognizes but does
iroprlately thumbnail sketches. We meot in the seven scenes of this play, a brilliant ar­ray of eighteenth-century
powerful figure, the flgui genius whose ideas and strivings "never hit their mark,” as Addi­son says In the'play. 'It is not
pity or compassion.
! Follows Traditional Form 
In all essentials, the play fol­lows the established tradition ol English historical drama, and In Its general structure and effect Is
eighteenth-century society, and tbe rhythmic quality'of the lines. The words spoken by Swift are perhaps - consciously' made more brilliant than those of his associ­ates, but theirs are often unneces­sarily dull. The several scenes in which various minor characters discuss or analyze Swift, though necessary • for the story itself, seem rather perfunctory and forced in comparison with the rest of the play. In particular, the closing of
subtlety and skill, and less obvi
• The Little Theater production, staged by Professor Hickman, skillfully done, moving rapidly
Kennedy, ter, disappointed genius and "Stel­la,” Patti Llttel), a charmingly delicate, self-sacrificing woman. Other bits of characterization par- ticularly good were those of Mjs. Vanhomrlgh, played by JaneFrancy. a caricature of the typical eighteenth century gossiping lady of fashion 1 
This play by a Princeton stu­dent is a fine interpretation of an important literary, personage who,
theme for development. And aside from Its literary and historical fiavor,..:‘Rich. 3VIan,..Po.or. .Manl’...ifl well-conceived and interesting slm-
Tie Skibo Hobo
NOT TOO CROWDED was the Women’s Junior Prom at the 
Schenley last Friday ... . but a nice turnout even though the 
Arts School' gels boycotted the affair . . . and as usual a ma­
jority of the MMCC women turned down the home talent, and 
Jnvited non-Techltes . . -. Fran Elchler sounded swell and heiped 
to make the dance a social and a financial success . . . tbe 
economically minded orchestra committee no doubt figured that. 
they might as well get a band they could pay. for . . . extremely 
tricky was a number where the orchestra played a- tune with 
pop (?) bottles . . . everyone was a little dasly until they turned . 
native and absorbed a little "Jungle juice” at the foot of the 
stairs . . . something ought to be done about that location . . . 
two unlimbered Maggie Murphs forgot to make the customary' 
right turn at the bottom of the stairs and started to walk right 
into the gents . . . somebody- yelled in time.
SIGNS OF SPRING . . . The balmy days when we live and love 
on the Arts School lawn can’t be far. off . . . Bill Clements wins 
the gold-plated bird’s nest for his witnessed and certified ^report 
of the first robin ... . his little feathered friend has apparently 
jleclded to take up housekeeping above the door of the Sigma Nu 
house . . . gentlemen, please remove their hats . . . although 
grey, brown, and dirty buckskin shoes persisted throughout the 
winter, Bill Smith, transfer from'the U. of Va., suh, holds the 
conspicuous distinction of being the first to appear in a clean. 
pair of white shoes . . . Runner-up by one day was Kenny 
Knapp, pride of the kappa Sigs.
i lovely red-
FRATERN1GHTIE FROLICS: Saturday night found a lot of the 
boys and girls relaxing in some way or other . . . The Trt-Gam 
Pledge Dance went along very smoothly—in fact much smoother - 
than the dancing. Very considerate of the waiters to act as. cad­
dies for the boys who tossed tiie plates across the floor. May we 
recommend Webster ;Hall on Saturday nights as an excellent 
place to bump ten pounds off the hips ... the Beetles; after 
planning a dance at the Sclionlcy, decided that it. would be to the 
advantage of all concerned If they postponed '.the dance,, due to : 
the several fraternity affairs being held, the same eve . . . give 
the fellows a chance to date a Beetle, -you know . . . the Delts 
(including pansies) and the- Phi Kaps celebrated at home with 
dances . . . the “Beta binge,” led by that notorious sophomore 
clique, refused to stay at home, and went^airover toW during the 
-evening . . . maybe in honor of their national convention, the 
Kappa Sfge had a glorious time with, a barrel. .
A RECORD of some kind is established by Ralph (DU)' Davis 
... we have seen him driving three different cars in the past 
week.. -. . mystery: who owns the cars and how come Ralph 
drives ’em?
ON THE ROAD TO FAME AND. FÛRT.UNE .. . . Arts Ball. de*, 
sjgners, McNaughton, Crocker and Flynn, ntarted tL ball rolling 
with their decorations for the “Voyage of Slnbad.” They’ve been 
engaged by the University club-to design, the decorations for the 
"Caliph’s Carnival,” the club’s annual costumé ball.
THROTTLEBOTTOM . . . When the Tartan reporter asked Doa 
- Blaekrweffi-tho new AT-O -presy^ -the-naeies of -the -other-officer»— 
for Greek. Goings Ou, he replied he did not know the vice presl*' 
dent or secretary.. Later when called by phone for the names,'
he -received - this- answer:..-‘‘T-he vico--pTeitdent;'_eh—the vice -
president Just a minute.” Three minutes later: "Say, we don’t 
have a vice president.”
On-Second
Thought
Dudley D. Pendleton, jP.
Parly -Suicide
In 1933 John J. McClure, (w lean Boss and Senator from ¿i >vare County was indicted, f0UnH' guilty and convicted or headlnt» gigantic vice, rum- and g- ring. With the repeal of hibition amend-
jail term for n act that was 
G longer il­legal, appealedimi
lifted.Last fall Sen- DudUa tor McClure Pendlei
was re-elected by the people oil! Delaware County to represeji | them in Harrisburgb. Other 3em- tors, outraged that he should BtiU retain bis seat after having been cted and convicted,-drew nn . resolution asking for hie Since tb< specifically forbids anyone office who has been convicted
:onstltutlor ‘ hold
crime,” the resolu. id to the Judiclarr committee which was to look loi» the legal aspects of the Issue. 
The committee after drawing report .on 6ome of the casi1» legal subleties, pickled the resolu­tion by a 6 to 5 vote. This meant that- the resolution might never come out of the committee.
. Moral Not Legal Question : Realizlug that McClure’s reteo- >u in the Senate was an open declaration that the G. 0. P. bu luteuUons of bceaking off its're- ions M'ith grafters and rachei; ¦s, Republican. Senator Leon 0. Prince made a motion that the res­olution calling for. McClure's resig­nation be discharged', from tbe committee.' Said Senator Prince: “The resignation of the Senolof front Delaware is not a legal qua- lion, it is a moral question."
/When the roll call was taken bt Senator Prince's motion, 17 Demo­crats and four Republicans v “Aye” but 24 Republicans and
¦ere local Senators Frank J. rier of Crafton and' Benjamin tt Thompson of New. Kensington.' 
Suicide for McClure and Party Even Republican Senators wbo voted againBt it admitted that the motion’s defeat meant political
: of .the motion' tie Pittsburgh PreBS declared: 
^'‘‘‘Can 'any political organm- • tion countenance corruption and escape the ‘ 'cbhBequeoces ? A vote to oust McClure would Indicate that the .G/O. P. in­tends to purge itself of all as­sociation witn political racket­eers. A vote in his favor in­dicated that the party will stoop to anything to protect
of the Senate Finan« Committee Is one of the most im­portant jobs. That so important
would.be serving a term for break­ing the law of -which he is suppos­ed to be one- of the makers', c
i group of people who
Four senators-have shown that they are bigger and far ahead o( those who vote only along pari;' lines. If only vthis number hi ’ been, seven—no' longer would ' have a man whose rum' and vice ring received about'three niilllop. protection , money from smug.-
The University of California communist episode which resulted In indignant protests all -over' lhr nation, put Dr. Lee Paul Sieg, ° -tho^©f—Washington.-iA-r a bad spot. He was quoted f ing he had ordered all cc._. nist organizations off the Seattle -campus.- .-He- -denied' - ^making tlw- statement, with: “The only tiling I have ordered around here 1““*heen niv nmnis'"— /Airsa).
r:w 'ORLD'S FAVORIrw 
PIPw SMOKw:r 
NwVwR BIrwS r:w rONGUw" 
JUSr rOP-QtUAUrYrOBACCO"

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, MARCH 12. IMS
I THE.iOOKING GLASS
FEKT FIRST!- To match your blue suit and pick up the high­lights of your tweeds, be wise and cboosc a blue : kid oxford with a baby i»’thon trlnl. Of course, wear hosiery to-blend with the python
- foot, look sizes smaller. Sheer navv hose is-appropriate with such 
an outfit. - . \ ..
The important lesson today is Color Control. .To.be really chic, you ji)i)6t have costume, harmony that blends, to perfection. As ,an illustration of this lesson, let us take the new (Herringbone tweed jackets and skirts,, and the ensem­ble sweaters out of the same color­ful dye pots.. Sweaters «re. the new Vionnet. “Canot” models, with' suiart canoe neck-lines. 'Fresh fruit colors, raspberry, lemon, ’• lime, «rape and chocolate, ar.e the new cst additions to Milady's color mLa-
: Lassies—the cotton Beason Is (
stay bright because they are woven jo. These choicitles are offered to 
cou in one or two-piece styles brown, red, or navy, blue plaids.
Remember that old. superstition About making a wish on the first robin you see!. Well, when., seo these new spring suits, know you are going to tnake a wish for one of them. These stilts suit the Junior Miss to a “T”—in navy, Bonko brown, grçy, tweed mixtures ond checks. If your taste.runs lo the sport types, these Bport suits come with full-length, .coats that may be worn separately.. Thus, /ou have a spring cost and ,a 'new suit all in one. ' Of course, there are ûleo three-quarter or - finger-tip Swaggers; and swanky, tallored-hip- length models.
AND If. with your sport suit, you would rathçr not wear a blouse, the Little Shop around the Corner Is featuring scarfs to be worn on just such occasions. BUT, ' for the blouse addicts, the Linen Lady, the Kuby Keeler In taffeta, or the Crepe sblrtmaker are just what you want— and need. Adorable styles with buttons all the'way down the front, tiny putted sleeves, and dain­ty, feminine neck:llnes.
You, who thought that the plgj skin ;had' gone the -way..of* all' foot-hallhave another think ing. it seems as if pigskin just won’t stay down, and it has' come to the’fore in the-accessory world, The newest extrovagonzsas are • boutonnieres, gloves, and handbags of pigskin.
We have Anally discovered a per­fect wardrobe dresB to suit all casions. The fabric is crepe, in navy, black or Venice 'blue.' The finishing touches vare gleaming white crepe and gardenia .buttons and belt buckle. Unbutton the cape, and you'll discover flip little .cape 6leeve3 cut in one ..with the yoifi of the blouse'anti afrouhd peck'lififi that you can dreBS Up any. way yoi. please. The skirt is separate and set on a band, so ;it- <With .other blouaeB. '
Oh, for the llfe^of-a BENGAt. liANCER, from which this striking spring creation' gets Its' name'.71 This "chapeau” (we are just bragging about our French) Is a reproduc­tion of the Englishmen’s Pith liel- met. of fine felt with twisted cham­ois trim, It 1a the lest , word la style.
You don’t have to be.a Katherine Hepburn to wear the “Little, Min­uter” jmjama. • .There,, ,1s-something.
lieplum jacket, that you?re bound to look jaunty. You have your choice of an assortrnent of colors—red, blue, preen, or brown backgrounds'.Prom pajamas to. fur-capes la e jnlghty long jump, but\we made It.
RoiiqIrIrity.iMews,
TIUs week, which/ is initiationTreeJr-fop-the-Betc—Tau • lambda Members, will close with a’ pledge dance Friday night at the. Penii- tlnco.ln hotel,-a. supper: given bjr the pledges ' and . iftforjhaiv initla*;lion in the Women’s.'cUib SaLurday and formal'Initiation onSujiday.
The rnemb ers.; of . Gam ma.Plii Sigma sorority fn Margiaret'. Morri- 'aon will hold a • dance':.bn. Friday. t)ieli t in the Sciienlèy' V'liQtel 'to celebrate Its formal, ròc'ògnitiqn on ino campus.. The ^members'- will «ance In the, Ci^ntlnètital' room to' Ine music of -^iU: Ryslianek and his orchestra. ¦ V . -'V-The committee-for the dance in­cudes: Thelma Shelly ’35. presi-
beld its annual lnitlatlon>Saturday afternoon. March-9:.in M: M. Recre- a«on hall. • Mies; Gertrude /Evans, flational president, of tli^e: oi'ganiza- U(ms, was present, at the ceremony and installed the Alumnae- chapter- On Sunday afternoon.. • ¦ : v:;:Tliose initiated” to active mem-, oershlp were:.^Marie .Rleyle-’37.- «&H6 Sanl ^«.¿Janet-Spatfgh- ^C.: Inez Graham- ’37. Ann Farbotmk. 37, Louiae Henderson ’^. Cathryn 
j*w 37. Florence Pyle ’36. Helen-
student, senior.7 wishes 'broad-mlnd- and affectionate. girl to take to oclence Formal.;. .Cannot afford to Jake her to dinner, orvsend-flowers. out will guarantee her a swell ever APDllcant please „-writer to wx M, careof„Journil,NGonfIdenUl.
College Girls Govern Selves
University of Michigan 
Go-eds Have Central 
Organization .
Dear Carnegie:: . • f
w students' • orientation, a 
children’s theater, an • activity 
point system, junior girls’ play, sophomore cabaret-, and a merit system of appointment for the heads of the women’s activity cen- ire some of the most distlnc- things in the field of women’s self-government at the ‘ University of Michigan.
We have here a building known i the Michigan League which .is the center of women's government and activities and which, has a membership of about *3,000 wotrien.
actively interested in the members: of thè various còmmltleés which . conduct the business and. social life of the wo- en on campus.
New System* Instituted Last May inaugurated a new governmental system at the League. Formerly the president.
clary- council >ere 1 elected; by ’ ballot of all the wonien on the campus. The system was found ‘Inadequate for an organization as universal as this.' ' \ '
The present officers: president
secretary and judiciary head. The two hew officers then.choose on a merit basiB the chairmen of the standing committees: House, Re-
a basis of merit from petition? sent: in. by , Interested.' under- graduates/.. . . , Scholarship. . previ-,
when the selections are made. After the officers named, are .ap­pointed, they are in turn to make up their . committees using tbe
League Council Governs
tratlve .body of the organization,
government-- and .’the' many.- actjvj-. tie's which corte under'the system. Other members of the council ate the three, vice presidents of the
.for ^he- -education school.
letlc committee is -president'of the
council are the presldehts^of Panhellenlc association and of'the Assembly, tne latter an organize- 
Jtion • for:' ‘Independent" ' woriteiir These ,two. positions,' as has been Indicated,:, are chosen by merit.
The system as .It has, bee'n
mlttee this year; ..this, It is expect­ed will • provide . an experienced body of executives,.who Will at the
9 tin9 have had work in otherextra-cur,rlcular activities and will be of the highest type of women to.be found on campus.
Legislative Body .Part -of System 
'r.f Also’'a partvôf-the system Is the Board of Representatives, the leg­islative body of the undergraduate women. It is composed of.two units: Panhellenlc Association, for sororities, and Assembly, which- meet separately to ..discuss prob­lems peculiar- to -themelv.es .and tp- gether to-decide questions of- In­terest'to’all women; The‘ heads .of these> two organizations', talce- turns--.lir presiding-» over'" board i^eilfles.
thing entirety new on-this campui and a long* forward step In the more active participation of fhde- . ...pflTirtftnf women in activities where jinder tlieitiitelage: of' 
sorority women usually hold "so- — definite an advantage." Initiated .at the end of last year by Senior, so­ciety,- indepeadenfr-w'omen'sisenlor. honor society,; and sponsored ,by the league, it has just completed its organization.;.,^The ^ system is^
league .'houses and private homes, are. divided into zones, each zone containing a .certain number of members. The zones each elect a president, vice president, 'socia.1 chalrmanj and athletic chairman: The president and vice president of each zone, represent it in As­sembly-and again in the Board of, Representatives similar to the two representatives each Bororlty has in Panhellenlc and in the board. A member of Senior society acts as adviser to- each zone and the pres­ident of Assembly.is a member of -the League council and brings.-to it her suggestions for activities.
Oth*r Functions Supervised 
. . This is the undergraduate set­up of women’s • self government here. Included in the work. su-_ pervised and "planned by the-coun- cU- are such>matters as reception •of important guests.. Sunday night suppers, theatrical functions, art exhibits.- musicales. development okcew income;B._and- care of prop? ertleS- allocation' of merit points, adveftising. r, news' - stones,- flies, —-’-v. hridee lessons, tour-.
___ to'headth^-vatlous'.class-.activities; fresh­man project. • sophomore- caberet, junior girls’ play,' and-.senior• play. Formerly, chairmen..of'.these. actly:.. lties were elected-, by -ballot,-but when the merit: system -was inetaJl;ed ln the leairue-proper lt wftB. de­cided that it shoifld be. extendsd to
]Non-Commercial Films Show Marked 
Developments in Motion Picture Art
By R osemnry Pierce;
. Found,— alter several years' of 
speculation .about' the possibility 
of Its»existeace—a! type of 'motion 
picture that stimulates both, the mind and emotions, and does not resort to the usual Hollywood for­mulae o£ mlllion-dallar' sets, Cin­derella scenarios, .box-office receipt stars, and similar. soiindin'g brass' and tinkling cymbals. '''Recently the Arts Department of the University of'Pittsburgh offer­ed, two. French-movies, Salvador Dali’s ‘Xe Chietf Andalou,” and a drains of -provincial life; “Foil. de Carolte." So. utterly'different were they' from' the conventional: Amer­ican Dim, that their novelty alone was welcome, aside from their sig­nificance and merit.Dal! Portrays'Mr. Dali’s film showed tbei want graphic effects,- but at.- the same time, Its unusual-theme suggests a broader conception of photog­raphy as a means'of-expression. It was an attempt to objectify n nightmare, with all the gruesome and unrelated images' that, torment the' mind .in such a state.. Its cfraida ¿onsist^.-.-hot in. anVerter* nai conflict ' of ambitions or- mo-- tlves, but in the Intangible-strug-
snd curiosity as to what It’ about, but this feeling' soon changes to one of cold horror when, without any • warning or preparation, a man picics up 'his razor, deftly silts open the. eye of a woman sitting in the.rpom, and then calmlj watches .fit quiver. Bh-om that Beene ti> the .end, there
Is. an atmosphere of dread and un­reality ' that few established hiys- ter>' thrillers.have ever equaled.v - ; Very-' different ftom.- Mr. Dali’s film >Vas the’second - one shown, "Foil ‘de Carotte,” the’ familiar dramd of the.'.unhappiness of a French school . boy who felt un­wanted and unloved by-his. pa­rents, and who suffered keen men­tal and :.emotional -conflicts before; gaining 'the - coufidence and com­panionship of his father. It was 6p6ntaneoiis and fluent—not just a section of life cut put piege-meal and presented in. static form, but. life as' it is; -never. etlll> always growing, and adding to Itself' Fur­thermore, it rang true—there was no:odor.of excessive grease paint- in the ’ characterizations, and it took no Incongruous twisting of the imagination to sense its atmos­phere.Films Not .Exploited
i than-anything else - the total absence of obvious - com­mercial exploitation. No' sensa­tional billboard advertising In -ad­vance—no -galaxy of stare—no “daring,' super-human feats.” .There) was no attempt to- sell them to the' public by exaggeration of- arti­fice; they stood on their own feet, advertised, by their innate simplic­ity and honesty.' Then, too, they didn’t, insult aspirations by offer­ing such cheap substitute satisfac-’ tions as the common "fags lo riches” :tales in circulation.. Tl^elr drama was on an adult .level and did not resort, to the commercial trick of turning man’s desire for growth and achievement - into .a source of profit. They were drama, not super-salesmanshlp._____.
Greek Goings On
ALPHA SJGMÂ PHI The chapter ,will,hold, an infor- al dance Friday- evening.
ALPHA TAU OMEGA. Election of officers 'resulted in the following: 'Donald- C. Black? wood,, president; Frederick R. Me-, Kelvey, treasurer; Paul' Galbreath,
BETA SIGMA RHOThe. pledges will entertain the -will be the principal- social event “ * of. the week.. ' -..........
DELTA TAU DELTAThe district chap'ters of'the o ganJzatlon held a'formal dance :
attended.
DELTA UPSILON- Annual elections resulted in the following: N. L:Brown,'president; 'William Holiday, vice, president: Carl A Boehme, treasurer; Oscar ijKraft, steward; •Cfe6gjesJvH..,I^eeth-
The . fraternity will hold a Kid party Friday evening. •
The pledge grohp- has challenged the actives to a basketball, game If pledges win, they are to under­go one day of “Hell” week. If they lose, they are to be ineted out . doubly severe initiation.
and the. annual Fledge dance Saturday-evening will round the organization's social calendar this weqteend. - . . •
Include all women’s:'activities over which the league has jurisdiction or which are' a. part of the leaguë.One'more' body needs to-be de­scribed: ' ThëN .,Judiciary . council. This is the body which 'judges'and penalizes ' offenses- against
threo seniors, two who their second year, one who is elected while a senior and two ju­niors, who will serve two'years;’
niors isfappplnted>by'ttie'’presldent- of thé league to "be chairman;
.Orientation Is Function .One of the newest and .most In- teresting of- the functions, handled by the League Is the orientation of new women students, freshmen or upperclasàmen.i - This; is .carried on under the Orientation:, committee. For a number' of yearythe unlver- ^Ity'has...carried,
program which -lasts' for the greateripart ofóÍHÁ* first , semester. The new women* students! aré - di*, vldéd into, groups-.of about twentyfacilityrib'er 'and7a'n^i|p^lnss-B todeut- adviser assisted by sophomores for the rest of the. semester.
. - Each—week- Jhk_gcoups... hear...a. promlnent member; of the.faculty speak on such., matters-, as “Why Conie to' College?’’ “College »Con-How to. Study .".'.•^Traditions and History ' of - thè • University,” “Personality..1’ After the ^lectures, the groups meet singly -to' di
Then the 'group advisers meet for luncheon tb talk over the problems of .their group.'. Other, parts.pf theprogram ;_ study .' clinic ducted by an!education-professor,' a speech clinic which corrects the sneech defects of students sent to it to helpi the new student accli­mate -herself to the lO.bOO-student campus of the i university. .
_• • MerltPoInts,Given The merit point, system: might also 'beipf interest to your .-camr pus-'-''Members of the point sys­tem, committee ;take charge, of this function which allocates to women •merit “points for thelc work.in ac­tivities,, and keeps - a-catalog , of their qualifications.' interests.' and accomplishments. - ; These records are -invaluable ln-the.selectlon of students' to important . positions,. In the; recommendations *to^honor. so­cieties and-in .th&'-v'vecomntefida*. tions-made by the university and the Dean, of Women’s office.at.- graduation'. ' A*n individual s joints are awarded .automatically, in cer- .tamv.speclfled.numbers^for ,each.ofthe/activities In wfilch she partic­ipates. 9Uchaadramatlcs.clas9;of- flces- - dances.- • • IRaayTF functions, honor, societies, speech-,c!ubs, writ­ing cl)ib8. publicstlbns.' and In ad­dition each womans,l?oiats - are. totaled* U> her -affiliation: be it sor­ority of. in the' case prindependent omen. ionea.' - At the end of the
KAPPA &IGMAThe fraternity elected the fol­lowing officers, Carl N. Olson, pres­ident; Kenneth'S. Anderson, vice- president; Guthrie' M. Mitchell,' treasurer; 'Abram Kreider, secre-
actlvë'reeelves an-'activity cup. 
Other . actlvitlefS carried on by e league are Open, House, an an­nual dance, ' bridge, -and combined iHon.c*................
YO campus, and a chil-
:‘The Pied Piper,” for children— and adults—using the newest In scenery, ,mualc,.; -dialogue. This project w^s Inaugurated last year and 'prWed ImmehseTy^succeeaful. ’Children are used ' for as many parts as possible, only adult parts being taken by students In the university. The work of tbe thea­ter Is under the, dramatics director of the league and. Its management rt of the work of the Theater- of Arts committee of the: league. Sincerely,- (Signed) MAXINE MAYNARD, President Michigan League.
Exhibition Room Is 
Scene of Broadcasts
Two Carnegie programs eraanat-. 
4ng—directly -^r-om—Uae—E^aJUhitlonl 
room in -the College of Fine Arts, 
will be broadcast over. WWSW .this .•week.-....^.;... _ .
At .1:30 Thiiraday the ‘'Carnegie Presents”: program will star’ Mll: dr'ed^Cbx,-’pianist, • in an . Informal' recital.;:•;Friday’ at' 4:30 the Carnegie Symphony- orchestra wlirmak^ its t as a Carnegle-sponeored. pro- .' inva half-hour recitah The- orchestra, Hinder .the dlreetioh -'of Prof,;; Jr.. Vick o:Brlen will.dedi Its program to thev Eastern Mnslc Supervisors’-conference being held here'' William-Stone, violinist, and Eaft "Wild, - pianist, 'are theT featur­ed soloists.
These broadcasts. . which are held in the Exhibition room; Cot- Tege. of Fine. Arts, are - open to the. student body. -The programs have been- arranged-'by- Carl • M. Dozer.
/ Choose your bank ¦ 
as you would choose : 
_ a.frtend^
?
MwLtON:ArIONAL
Alumni to Cet 
Silver Thistle
Distinguished Service 
Will Merit Award
ed by presentation of the "silver thistle.” The thistle, now. In. the hands of the engraver, -is a' white gold emblem in the form of a this- the leaf ' which can be' worn as a pic.. It is also arranged so that 'ou focmal occasions a plaid ribbon cftp.be attached.''.
For. distinguished service ,in .or-, ganizing and. working with the. Philadelphia 'clan, Lynn E. Exllne, chairman of the Advisory board, 
rmg the .first to .receive this honor. Mr. Exllne was graduated from the College of Englnerlng in 1909. Ho
phia.' The award Clan day last Saturday,
The Phlladephia else originated
-has been- the'only-possible reward for alumni services''This‘method, of course, tfiuld -not* be-used too widely. With the 'new plan, how­ever, recognition may be easily' and effectually granted. Columbia, New York university and Oberlin have similar plans.
Summer Season Offers I 
Special Courses in Art91
.. Cokllnuod From Patro 1 “
having the requlrod preparation. Students of the department will be given credit for summer work on the same basis as-during the regular college year. The program is designed tp aid teachers, super­visors, .. and . other' professional, musicians. 'painting, and Design During the Summer Session, the Department of Painting and De­sign will offer an intensive pro­gram of technical and art educa­tion subjects. This program is planned to afford the maximum op­portunity for teacheTe".and super* visors of art as well as for crea­tive workers In tho fields of ,com- jtierclal art, illustration and indus­trial design, it Is likewise of in-
graduate field advanced drawing' and problems In aft education'' will be available. Representative un­dergraduate subjects include draw-
lethods in. teaching course'in, the'Department of .paint­ing and Design Is. offered for' high school, students who have exhibited more than ordinary, talent and have be,eh recommended by their art
Tbis 'yèar. for the first time. a. lim­ited number of ' scbdlarshlps cover* Ing materials and tuition.for,, the high School cleiBS . will be awarded on .a competitive basis.In the Department of Architec­ture the only coufses offered.-this summer are design and water color.
The Department of Drama will offer a thoroughly practical course fof. those who wish to; have train­ing In t'ho practice of the arts oi tbe theater either for purposes of teaching or- for participation Itfamateur- dramatics/.; -The’v subject^
ics. -The Department of Drama tiumed, summer’ instruction only last year, no courses having been offered prior. to .that time since
th'e'sunimef session’evening enten talnments, student dances, and Other' events planned by the tertalnment committee. A new tea- tare; .this summer is the arrange- mept by ^hlch the swimming pool
for swimming parties for i Women'. The tennis ’courts .will be iTQilable-foc—tbe_.UBe_.Pi.:Bijjdente as -in 1 former years.
C.S. EDMAN
PB1MTEB 
6470 Monitor Street
Beauty lines] Every'bot- tle of Higgins* American 
Drawing Ink is full of Ihem’ 
—free-fiowmg, brilliant, 
precise and «ofbVfui^fiy- 
- a set. 16 ^Waterproof 
Color», Wqleroroof and 
• General Blacks.'; ' 
-¦-.<HAS; M. HIQOiNS « CO., bw.. tfl-NlMh St. IreoUr^ N. V7
HIG GINS'
American
DRAWING INKS
Professor Cleeton Advises 
^ Public Occupational Clinic
Unemployed Adults Classified by Vocational Tests, 
Interviews, History Records; Advice Given 
On Personal Problems; Publish Results¦
groups the following 'estimates 
were . made as a .result ot the 
study: (!)_ About 10 per cent' ot 
unemployed persona will probably 
return to their former jobs; (2) 
about 10 per cent wili^robably se­
cure better'jobs; (3) about 80 per ctut will probably secure similar jobs with • a new employer;, (4) from to 30 per cent, will be' obliged to readjust to a new type of.job; (B) from 20-to 2C per cent will probably never again hold a steady remunerative job.
The report proposes tho estab­lishment of an-occupntlonnl adjust­ment clinic to which persons' now unemployed might apply for ad- ice, and suggestions on the prob-
Allegheny county to which unem­ployed, adults might apply for ad- -ice - and assistance, in securing lew jobs is cited by Prof. Glen 'U. Cleeton, head of the Department of' Industrial Education at Car­negie, in a book . ontltled. “Occu* pationai. Adjustment”. which
made by Protossor Cleeton In operation with the Pennsylvnnln State Employment service, ^pre­paring the study, work experience records of 1&6;6CS persons regis­tered at the State-Federal Employ­ment bureau, 10S Smlthfield street, Pittsburgh» were analyzed.
Selected Groups Classified Selected groups of unemployod adults were theu carefully classi­fied *by means of vocational tests, Interviews, and personal history records. Advice on personal prob­lems was given to 2,000 persons enrolled In'emergency schools'for unemployed adults. Through this service, the persons studied were, aided in selecting courses, deter­mining vocational fltuees, and cor­recting certain, personality traits which appeared to be'Interfering, with vocatlonal success.
The following'¿onclu'sionis were' reached as a' result of the general study of all registrants In the State Employment office and nn J_1—* ’ case study of 2,000 so- dlvlduale: “Granting even optimistic prospects for economic recovery, re-employment iB .likely to occur slowly. Some, persons now ' unemployed will never again enjoy Bteady remuner*;
although .they' may find similar jobs with new employer's.'
Readjustments Needed 
"Re-employment will not be, therefore,'a simple problem of job finding and placement. As a re­sult of the careful Investigation of Individual cases that -will' be made by employers before hiring many persons among those unemployed at present, they will find it necessary lo make certain readjustments' be­fore steady employment can be fie- cured. ¦
'With • any marked movement toward re-employment, occupation­al adjustment, going far beyond job finding' and placement, will be- ) necessary for about sixty, per of the' unemployed persona living In Allegheny county. This means that' even though' ac­tive .re-employment were’ to be-' come.an -Immediate.fact,- approxi­mately -100,000 unemployed ' per- ' in Allegheny ; county would become occupational /or social ad­justment cases'.” • -•» •• •
The report indicates .that .about •17i^00‘empl.DyaWe&erson&>'ftfe,-atl present without work In Allegheny, county..., • This represents about -third . of the normal .employ­ment reported in 1930; . Of. those unemployed, abo\it 38,000.; are at present seeking their first full-time job. • The longer unemployment is delayed, the larger this .group of
lem. ot preparing for and ¡H’lnga Job. It is suggested that Buch clinic might work in close co oper- atloo. with the State Employment service and other placement guid­ance .and training agencies .in Pittsburgh.
Various social service agencies which could co-operato in tho re­adjustment of unemployed adults are indicated Jn tbe report. Theso organizations mentioned include the Stn(e Employment service, Ju­nior Employment servlco, public achoots, universities and colleges, -Y. M. and Y. W. C. A. and Y. M. H. At, Federation of Social agencies, Pittsburgh Council on Adult Edu­cation, Central Labor unlou, Retail
burgh have Indicated their willing­ness to cooperate with the Pitts- burgh Personnel association in formulating plans for a publicly supported occupational adjustment clinic;'
From the intensive study of 2,000 unemployed persons it waB. found that about one-third were occupa­tionally maladjusted—that is, bad previously worked at or were In­terested in a type of work for which they showod so puriiculor fitness. Among this group nbout .80 per cent woro found to bo suffering serious emotional ' dig-’ turbances. In view , of- the ex­tremely trying economic condition eurroundlng unemployed' persons, it is surprising; that tho number of omotlonally - disturbed was not larger.
'Women's Vocations Crowded.
In the study of vocational inter, ests of this group, it was found that an^ extremely- large number of women ^ere interested in. already over-crowded vocations. This was shown by. a. concentration of Inter­ests in. siich occupations as secre­tary typist, stenographer, and dev
shown by a high percentage.the women " included in ,‘the' . study: laundress, factory worker, land­lady, baker, waitress, bookbinder, atid' elevator operator. '
'. !Favored occupations reported t)y the> men Included: • undertaker, auctioneer, insurance and real. es­tate ' salesman;; clergyman, florist, music teacher, social worker,., aud politician.' m. wide range of Inter­ests In - occupations was shown by both, the m'en and the women. On .the average' the women, were Inter­ested in about’ thirty-five ocqujm- tlons in e the men
Tea Dances 
Need Support
Student Critic Claim? 
Congeniality Missing “
Dear Editor:
'' Wliat has happened to tho stu* 
dent body’s support of campus ten 
dances?
Several years ago, when the ten. 
dances' were held In the old .Union, -:the hallM>vded, ThéroiRck of women students and tho stag line was .of sufficient length : qope .with .the number' of girls; .
goodly number' of the campus “big-. shots” attended regularly.' ¿1 don’C bolleve that any- particular.: ols6s of coeds held, a monoply in thos^'daysi all the girls, freshmen or sonlorB, had a good time.
: For the last two ‘years almost all the organizations sponsoring tea dnuces in Thistle Hall havo either just mode expenses or iost money ou the dances. The bands have usually been good, but the at­tendance has been low ' and - tho general atmosphere has been' cold.:
At the tea dance last week the small crowd had such a good time that the orchostra^-.cbliged -them : by playing a half hour oVertime, That stunt of serving punch and cookies really went across. Yot the spirit wasn't there and.neither were tbe R. O. T. C. or the campu«. "blg-ehote.” Those studeuta who ' were there realized how muoh fun the tea: danceB oould be it they wore supported as they used to be.r think I .express the feeling of most of the students when l aeki
about it?’>, —Veronica .Kloos '36.
Kirby Page Speaks 
At Y.W.C.A. Seminar
An Intorcolleglate Seminar, Bpofi- sored by. student “Y" groups from the.University of Pittsburgh; Pentì- sylvanla Cajlege for Wonien, and ; Carnegie Institute of Technology, will be held Monday, Maroh; 18, at ; Pennsylvania College for 'Womonf Thè afternóbn meeting PB111 ; begin 
at 4 o’clock and continue .:unitilvfi, : and the evening meeting wlll 'b^ . called at 7:80 o’clock. ; DinQe'r la to he served nt 6 o’clock, Ja: the dining: hall of P. (C, W,
Kirby Page, a noted..thinker, òn rellglous'and economic problems àf ' thè present day, will be the. Bioàk*'; er and. discussion'leader, -MVrFage '.
the student ot tfiday in ordef to ’pre*' - sent a sensible outlook on llfe.;-Ha :. Is tho author of several booksiV. op'. this, and allied subjects. . One Vetv the most outstanding .of his.,books': Is entitled •'Crentlve Llylng.”At the present time Mr.. PageUp;: traveling about ,the. country,; uh-: der.the Bponsorshtp' of the' Student ; Christian Movement, and speaking-: ¦to groups,.
forty-five occupations - in a llat ,oE v one hundred; •,• - V'v-': The reading Interests of.thi^-wo*.' men.: Indicated a tendency, to reatt.:-:. for. Amusement more; than for aIoUEy improvement, while, witii the .mei
improvement. The, major .recroa- •/
OT^ppesl hjill Pooch?
4/ a n OU CpoÁ/
1
AT TRYING TIMES .... TRY A SrrvootA OLD COtD
When the Girl Friend insists 
that you romp with Rollo before you have your . 
tête-à-tête with her * . dou’Llct the Bow Wow 
bash your spirits. Brighten up by lightra’ up an 
Old Gold* Its 6uzmy-smoothness makes even dog- • 
walking endurable. Darn clever • •. these O. Gsl

---------------------------------------------------

.v-;„ '
TBE CARNEGIE TAKTAN. TUESDAY. MARCH 12; 19SS
THE
Eu&NAHjhI
PLAID
al «otñán ' are. oot BMcmrilr «odoned t tí»* Editarle! Bnri.«(.tbe.Dv Scho '
WALTER J. NOIGOT 
6 Uff:
WIUU1AM E. HAKE
Our Aim
. With this issue of tbe "PLAID, n new staff wilt endeavor to uphold that high standard which has been set by those who bare preceded We extend our sincere appreciation lor the encouragement, and support
•Our aim trill be to present a true and concise picture of the happen­ings, both on and off the campus, .¦which are ot- interest to tbe busy 'jughtsLudenfc,
We realize that the average eight .'student, who uees his .leisure lime . .to continue hi6 education, has little ¦.left la which to find diversion £rom thé regular routine which hè obliged to follow. If this page Is .successful In making your time spent at Carnegie amare enjoya- .ble one, we will have felt that efforts'. were well rewarded.
Cooperation
- . The’ success of any organization ¦. 'depends upon the cooperation and 1 ‘^support of each and every mem- , ber by whom It was empowered to. function. Without just reason the Night-Student Council has been . subject to criticism and false ac cusatlons, such as “discrimination' and "favoritism."
Council-is a student organization empowered by its 'constitutional • rights to govern-the various activi­ties- sponsored by the night dents.Changes in conditions the campus often require.- new /laws, or a. revision of the old.. Ii .no. event should p. new law he . passed or an old one rescinded '.which would be- detrimental to the /welfare of the students. The mi „bers of-council are représentai!'
Connell have recently been crltl-
proval la in itself sufficient-proof- . ttiat they were made to further the "progresB of the night studei ' 
.-:'In-'the enforcement of these -'/'rules,. It Is, unfortunate that .they •. 8hoiild: fall upon .persons.who un­doubtedly are capable of perform- ing the duties of the offices they -¦-'»ipldj To these .persons, this,, may seem discriminatory. The difficulty Js.to reconclle the sense o£ what
: "thát ' feeling • comes tò.a.crises' with
National thinking cannot' save 'it completely/ then irrational thought and Ideas wlli be called-up to de­fend It: It - shouldhe' remembered -.'that no person-:was ever honored /'for- what he received:' Honor has .¡Beeh.the reward for what'he gave.
••tlon-- of the -night students. Mia- ’takes are'possible, but the biggest V’.'failure-is - the man' who is -afraid' A^to^try;--In-return .-for-.their efforts
: sincere coopera*
NIGHT LIGHTS
the Engineers’ banquet!,. . . .The¦ entertainment;, problem a\tne hUH- ..ijnet, • the /Engineering^ officer^ .-.claim, is the explanation ot their Interviewing those good-looking gtrla in the *Y" office at 11:00 at night . - -George McCormack,r.tka new face in tbe council picture, ^ls one' of our hardeet workers when "the,‘decorating question comes.up ^-;^t’--Thebe5t^driria_t£La..E^E_ed- Itor la “Keen your fingers crossed!': . Abafent-minded Dick Shields clos­ed his locker the other night . by f p-utting-ma iock through-onlr.-Qi
cently glimpsed in tbe front row of- the Burleycue. ..Nlsht School, eh?. Bob Lahr-s. tongue slipped the- other day while bragging- about his
:• nave. Grandpa. Lahr! . • . Miss -Horten, belle . of the economics v class, slays the boys with her wit­ty sayings.'’Practically everybody has been - accused of writing this column ex­cept the person who does! Heh
.v'la.^Tiatvftiev^i^tainv.'^alkedvaway the' pe<ton'fli>rouha j ot - the. 
'tournament'^ -s•.rA^Biahcte-Scbeiner; has -hopes and '^ambitions.aside from her studies— «3j&*mu6t;-be about six feet, nnd good- ?.'lbiJking'i'.' v .vTlie Night Reglsirr-
STUDENTS
WANTED-,rVi:.plw,~hu’n-dr«d:. Typewriter«.make*, Portable* and " ^Ufidard*; . told,- -rented,. r*. -palred* '":$3.00,'.-on« • month, - iflOiOO'flve! month«.
< American 'riting 
v Machine Company"¦01 LIBERTY AVENUE . PITTSBURGH *
¦Historical Highlights 
- of...
Night Student Council
Question ot Activities 
Fees A Campus Problem
Prom the most casual' observa­
tion it is apparent that'extra curri­
cular activities are a necessary 
adjunct to any college and It must 
alsobe apparent that some sort of 
revenue should be counted upon so 
that the extra curricular activities 
may be assured of needed financial support for their exi^tence.-W The man source of. revenue therefor must.be from student '^activities tees since these fees can be collect- ed from the Individual student and the amount' Is limited only to the number of students registered.
. In the early days of the Institute when .Carnegie was known as tho Carnegie. Technical ScboolB and later when the name was changed to the Carnegie Institute of. Tech­nology, with the exception of the war year, a-compulsory fee of three dollars was collected from.ea flight student." pwt of this allocated to tfte -Athletic!. Assdcia- tion and the balunce went to the non-athletlc fund.
The.omount going to the non-atli letlc fund was administered by Student Activities.-Board ’and the various groups which held func­tions applied, to this board for the -budget necessary to conduct its tlvlties. ' The importance and si:
xhls general fund. As was •expected the demands made upon the fund were greater than the amounts available for distribution and some of tbe' petitioning groupn were afforded little or no financial support; this was especially true when [be group or function did not hávé long or continued -standing. In the. latter group fell those functions of the night section.
While it is true that the night students were permitted to partici­pate in the general -campus activi­ties and that, they did contribute loyally in every way possible to the success of these student organ­izations, there were, times when some Individual function -was pre­sented by the night. ’group and often, because of no available funds, the whole, financial burdena Tested , upon the'sponsors of tho'
dents, this’- repreeem always .productive * support, and often tl pòri. causeila feeling òf dlaeatlsfac* “an.
The collection of the compulsory
DurbinChosen 
Vicé Président
pression upon. the. desirability of continuing the compulaory fe'é any canvass of the night Student body
Invention Seen as Aid 
To Color Preservation
designed by Professor Arthur C.
of the colors In, for example, a col­lege insignia. On a graph with two simple lines thé Information for producing the exact shades can be preserved.
Overcoming -errors due to inac­
curacies of the eÿè In.'‘defining:col­or, the 'spetrophotometer accapi- pllshes directly'what .took hQurs by any. previous method. 'Briefly, It functions by, comparing the bright­ness1 ofa, specimen at each wave 
length with, that ot ; a standard White’ Object.- •
V Is also. .felt, tliat the device could be used.-to assure' ijerpetua- q of the/true coloringspf-great paintings by providing, a graph for. 
every, shade ati'various^-polnts on a picture., i'v ;.,2 '
T-ifcKréBteKttOr^t *tte:fatnre - .welcome a five-foot- sheljC qt¿specifi­cations in the termsioïkgrhphs: by which., reconstruction *oatef&©i£ dimmed painting-l*aïfcîts"!Sl®i^ freshness and >i)eiujty v£oulc&be -'ac­complished. ¦ Throngh<- ¿he ^device It is likewise' possible for. a college to reproduce -the .çxact< shades of the original college, colors^-.-
Will; Assume. JJatiesAt 
Coming Meeting
At the regular meeting of the 
Night Student Council which was 
held'on. Sunday, March' 3, Howard 
Durbin was elected to the office of 
vice president for the, balance' of 
the school year. The.offico had 
cently been made vacant due to the 
elevation of Mr. 'A: C- GrJmin to thg 
office of President' of Connell. 
^.Inrhls‘Tte^capacUy,it,wiJlbe^^ 
duty of Mr. Durbin to keep a record 
of.activities points earned by the 
night students during the current 
school year.
: In view of his past' record, in 
class work apd activities, we feel 
sure ihat council has made a wise choice ini appointing him to this of* flee.
Tis Said
THAT with' the above cap*, tlon, a new-column makes Its- <debut on this page. Hope you like It. , ,. THAT a new editor and a new viqe president of Council have been Inducted Into office.' THAT that feminine touch has penetrated this page.THAT a collection Is being .
THAT Council Instead of ma. Jorlng Ili minor offices Ie now 'mlnorlng In major offices,THAT m^d Anthony wac left out of the picture. last week.THAT to hear some people tell It,'“there ain't no Justice." ..THAT the new president of- the N. S. C. Is quite handsome . . : with his.hat on.. THAT ’ the • students' In the History of Arts are' puzzled as to who Is the professori
It’s free..THAT.the Social Chairman Is still toting' a 'Gondola. 'THAT the students In Psy­chology spent the class period watching • moving . pictures of vhlte rats running through al-
THAT the treasurer of N. S.' C. Ie sporting a new Dodge.. THAT If you’ll, tune In at-this. same tlme next' weekr<;you’ll see.
Industries Group 
Will Hold Dance
Pep Houck Furnishes f;avI 
. Eor.Iinal^Social Event
Thistle Hall has been chosen for the dance whicn wiu be pres. by thè Night College, of Industries on Saturday evening,.. March 13. With thla-pvent, the current social calendar of the Industries , gropp will be brought to a closo.For tb© past few weeks, the____
mlttee has been laying plans for. the event and everyone who at­tends’ will be assured of an eve* nlng’s entertainment The decora­tions and lighting effectaiwlll be oarriei out. along.modeni lines and a fev^^ovelHe's wiir be liitW' ""- “'Dancing will be in progress nine till twelve' o'clock.
Fep (Houck and his orchestra, have been engaged *to furnish the1 music for the occasion.' While this will be Mr, Houck’s initial appear­ance on- the .campus, he Is well! known throughout this section, having recently, filled engagements the Edgewood .Country Club and tbe Penn Lincoln Hotel. , Mr.. Houck’s, band Is composed of ten pieces. - -
Am'ons-the guests who have.béen tnvit,ed to attend the.affair are'the Messrs,' Renhehstréw, Potter,, i piti kin. Sterling, Dosey, Shaffer, Black­ball. « Hobe, McKee, Fox and SchlOBsnBglc, ‘j.
It ie hoped, that. the Industries' students will; take . advantage -of this opportunity to. express their appreciation to the officers;who have . so capably represented the College of Industries in its various, functions throughout the year, by
tending tho affair.
New NameChosen 
For Night School
the i
official name, of the night school is to be .changed to ‘‘Evening School:”, All .schools that,conduct part time courses comparable' to thoae .at. Carnegie use this, designa­tion, nnd Dr. Ihrig believes -that the change .will ' facilitate direct comparisons-between;1'courses various schools. r This change will have no effect npoh the-quality of courses‘which have - been offered by Carnegie
Eastern• College Lists 
Public Service Course
signed for students who. . paring «.-f or •• government,', service,-Id professional . or v other • capacities, will be given at,one ot our leadlc? eastern colleges.
The nièw course^ which ls: given In response to an increasing demand for. college-trained men with a bróad knowledge of economic and' governmental prolems, . would 'be conducted. by esperte. In' various fields of public .administration/ .The session will be open to a lim­ited number rof ’etuden^ with a bgçKgrôuç^. of,tbs'physical and sch clal science ¡suffîcie'nt to' insUto-In­telligent participation; The course yin carry crédit toward a:degree.
Nigbt College of Fine '- 
Arts Plans Final Dance
Finn)' plans are being drafted for the Night . -College' 'of i'ine' Arts Dançe which will he held In Thistle« Hall' on tho evening of March- 30. As this will be the last event on this year’s social calendar, to he sponsored' by'' the- Arts gr;oupa
celve. a souvenir.
Notice rio Workers
All students , who ore In­
terested In securing points 
toward the- Insignia Award,. 
,are. requested .. to ' meet .in:, Thistle Hall, on Saturday aft- . ' èrnoion, March 16, at 2, p. m., for,,the,:.purpose, of decorat- • lng :IhtBtl,e: Hall -for 4the.‘ In­dustries Dance whichwiUbe held. That , evening. . This no­tice applies particularly to those students who hâve fallen..down in, their activi­ties.points. Since thereare hilt four social .events,.‘re-' mainlng .on tiiia year’s, cal­endar, all students, are urged to make uaé of this, last op: portjiplty.. t6. ..earn'pointa to­ward (he Insignla-Award.
Leet'ire Plans 
Announced
Air Conditioning Chosen 
Ab Subject'of Talk
Final arrangements ' have, been made , for the- night school lecture announced.in the last '.week's Issue 
of the “Plaid.” The guest speaker
Application.” Mr. Reading, who 
is an authority on this subject, possesses.,As widév-^experi^nìce' In, both research and practicaroppllca-
conditioning equipment was limit­ed to theaters and hospitals. Real­izing the importance of the bene fits and comforts derived from' pro­per air conditions, engineers have
equipment for home use. Mr. Read­ing, will .'discuss the'possibilities of these new developments and the progress made to enlighten the public on the importance of this new- field. - ,
All branches of engineering 
the'arts are called into play in ."Air Condition" design and con­struction. The ' mechanical and electrical men are first presented rith the .actual design of thé equip­ment proper;-the metallurgist must 'specify,.the proper materials—and of couree the art students and chltects are confronted with 'the task of beautifying the engineer':
tilating-engineers^-and so the list of professional men who play'-an -important part in -this new field, s. It,would hdye been extreme­ly difficult to have chosen a single
the dinner, may. be-purchased at the Student Council room - any school evening. -It is very import-
dents and. their friends't
‘Huroan Ad ven ture’Film 
Is Open to Night Group
____________ _ _____________3. In­
vited to attend the General Student Assembly Ms Carnegie Munic Hall. ^n^Bi.ro.^Tues^UKv^Vchl?,
_ The feature of .this assembly is to be an .eight reell.talklng picture .produced by-the -.University, of Chicago. * Specially chartered planes, professional photography, and "hall-mark".. of . scientific'.; au­thority make “Human Adventure" one of tbe most Impressive educa­tional pictures ever, produced. Tbe * of world pageant n‘s rise from savagery to civilization.No admission 'cards sary.' See first page for further de^
Administrative Course 
In Engineering Planned
-/It is interesting to note lhat.thç first, four-year course designed to train engineers tò take part In the national public .works program bas Just beep established in tbe School of Civil Engineering at Cornell Uni­versity. ' The Course which. is known aG “Administrative Engi­neering” is expected to. contribute further opportunities .expanding fields of, public utility -administration, in railroad obéra- ¦tlon, in industrial management, in appraisal and valuation work, in city management.In making this • selection, the school leads; others in setting up the basis for training in civil glneering administration, with pre­dominant einphasls on engiueerlng but with broad trsiniog in the prln clples of administration and man­agement.
have been broadening opportuni­ties, of all forms of public works which require trained engineers f?i
HALF-TON ES. ETCH IN CS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COIORNEWS and COMMERCiALj 
rART^—
FOR ALt ILLUSTRATIVE' 
PURPOSES
Skib© inn-'Heopens-
Under New Management
• Excellent table service
® Good food .
• Reasonable prices
Don’t forget 
. Sunday, JIarch 17 : . 5:00 to 7:30.
FREE TURKEY DIMMER
Plaid Correct» Error 
On Engineers Banquet
.; In i last- 'week’s issue-, of the Plaid, a discrepancy' appeared In the announcement of the. change ‘in ^date- of the- EagJneers' .banquet. =The' dateMff'deflnlt^ly ^it^as^iprii 6,' instead1, of April 13, which ap­pears in the handbook. The com­mittee hopes that this change will cause no' - confusion or Inconveni-
Contributors Note
-Students are requested to 
tribute to- the “PLAID,” express­
ing their views on any subject
ditional.polnts to meet their quota. All copy should be double-spaced the contributor’s sigi
inter-school mall box in the .base­ment of the Admidlstration bulld- lalled'to Box 136, Carnegie
Student Council.
Students Urged to 
Get Handbooks
Several hundred copies- of the Night Student' Handbook are available at the office of the Night Student Council.
students who still. wl6h to obtain a„ Handbook, are re-. " quested to apply at the Coun-
evening, both before' and ’ after classes, for this sur-
Pitt, P.C.W. Students 
Meet at Carnegie inn
; The Student Industrial :Pltt. Teel, and p. c. w. 
guests1 of the Tech Y. W c a 
a luncheon meeting,last Thared-, fft .theiGawseeie. lnn, - ^Mr. Charles w. Mason Reac •Guide and Director of Adult } .cation ,and professor at Carnen» Spoke on;the.subject of - ^Education, which he has i for a long .time.- This meeting opened the Stn,w, Industrial Conference which»“, continued at p. C. W. with a crnoon -discussion '. group Effect of Proletarian Literature ^ Public Opinion, 'After served . at - Ben-y Han 
O’Connor addressed the gD»pB a the Labor .PrtBB of Totiay
i^usic +AppfreciA^noN, hour MEETS FACUUTV Syracuse University. — (MCEt —The response to Dean Hai-oM Butler's- music .. appreciation hoi which was recently inaugurated h; been. so great that more than 2(,v students attended- the second let ture on Schubert’s B Minor (ut isbed) Symphony. When the set Was first started with a lecture o„ Beethoven's Fifth Symphony mors than three'times the expected oam. ber of:35 came to hear tbe lecture in a classroom. Students were kept standing throughout the t planatory taik. The. following a fie appreciation-houir^was'given the Crouse College Aiidltorium,
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWKITÉBS $14.95 to $78.00Uberai Term* ... Fm Triti RENT. A TYPEWRITER First Tbree^Months^ RenUi Appllet
FORT PITT 
.TYPEWBITER CO.644 LIBERTY “AVENUS
St's somebody's 
birthday I .
Somewhere, someone 
is. having',a birthday to­
day—a friend of yours^. 
perhaps!
Reach her by telephony* 
She’d morethan welcome 
your spoken greetings be­
cause your voice is you/
--The-^ Bellj^Telephone (SompanY-:-of-^e'nns%V^QTi-ta^
sy wont
catdirive^
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
$ luì iMHTlKmiTouaoP0
