The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1944
Carnegie Students 
Get Excellent Results 
In Graduate Exams
The results of the Graduate Rec­
ord Examinations have just been 
received by the members of the 
junior class who took this test a 
few weeks ago. Although it is too 
early for a thorough analysis of the 
scores, some of the more obvious 
implications are already apparent.
The first half of the test, the gen­
eral achievement examination, was 
divided into eight parts, the first 
four dealing with physics, mathe­
matics, chemistry, and biology, and 
the others with literature, fine arts, 
history, government, and economics 
—these last three comprising one 
group — and vocabulary. For com­
parison, the examined students 
were divided into several classifica­
tions and regions. Of primary con­
cern to Carnegie Tech are the re­
sults of sophomores intending to 
specialize in engineering, and sen­
iors majoring in engineering at east­
ern liberal arts colleges.
In the first four groups our stu­
dents showed a clear superiority to 
these two classes, which may well 
be assumed to constitute the com- 
continued on page 2
Regional Conference 
To Be Held At C.I.T.
The Regional Conference Com­
mittee or the Student Christian 
Movement decided at its February 
23rd meeting to hold the Area Con­
ference at Carnegie Tech on Sat­
urday and Sunday, March 18th and 
19th. The Committee has selected 
as the theme of the Conference, 
“Living Today for Tomorrow.” The 
main speakers will be Rev. Donald
A. Spencer, of the Point Breeze 
Presbyterian Church and Mrs. Mary 
Moss Cuthbertson, Regional Secre­
tary of the Middle Atlantic Region. 
Mr. Donald Campbell will lead the 
devotional services. All faculty 
members and students are invited, 
and it is hoped that this will be a 
means to bring the faculty and the 
students of the several colleges to­
gether. The Conference Program 
is as follows:
Saturday *
10:00-11:00 Registration — Exhibition 
Room, Art School.
11:00-12:00 Opening Service—Dr. Don­
ald A. Spencer.
12:00- 1:00 Lunch—Carnegie Grill.
1:00- 3:00 Discussion—Dr. Donald A. 
Spencer.
Mrs. Mary Moss Cuthbertson.
3:00- 4:00 Quiz Period.
4:00- 6:00 Recreation.
6:00- 7:00 Dinner.
7:00- 9:00 Panel and Closing Worship—
Dr. Spencer and Mrs. Cuth­
bertson.
Sunday
9:00-10:00 Breakfast—Carnegie Union. 
10:30? Communion—Heinz Chapel.
Immediately following the Clos­
ing Worship on Saturday the YMCA 
will sponsor a Barn Dance at This­
tle Hall. It is jointly sponsored by 
the YMCA and CWCA, and will be 
open to everyone without charge. 
Tickets may be obtained from Mr. 
Davis or members of CWCA.
FLASH! Read All About It!
Hello, hello, Ladies and Gentle­
men, this is Gabriel Windshield- 
heater, with the latest from the 
home front. FLASH! Today the 
nation is astir by the sensational 
Spring Carnival planned on the 
campus of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl­
vania. A special House Committee 
on Elections just finished a turbu­
lent discussion on the choosing of a 
Carnival Queen. Shouted Chairman 
Rohn Jankin: “A highly unconsti­
tutional violation of State’s Rights!” 
An unidentified Representative 
praised the election as an outstand­
ing example of democracy at work, 
said, “If eighteen year olds can vote 
at Tech, why not everywhere?” The 
Honorable Spam Fowl, in a three 
hour speech, denounced the move, 
accused Techites of reverting to 
monarchy.
The trend of the nation was re­
flected in the growing pile of tele­
grams received by C.I.T.’s Social 
Chairman. Parshall Mields wires: 
“Will not attend Spring Carnival. 
See no chance of uncovering sensa­
tional scandal at C.I.T.” His pal 
Bertie says: “Be glad to come if no 
un-American elements present.”
Telegram from dear Albin; “Please 
appoint me Chairman of Carnival; 
resigning is such fun.” Eleanor
Vote For Carnival 
Queen Today-Now!
Who’s got the most friends in Car­
negie? Which girl will be able to 
pay most? Who’s got the best po­
litical affiliations on campus? Who’s 
going to be our next Spring Carni­
val Queen?
Well it’s up to you—the student 
body. Today is the day you have 
your big chance to make Carnegie 
famous. Crawl out of those books 
(excuse me I mean deck of cards) * 
and hasten to the Canteen or Mar­
garet Morrison to vote for one of 
your candidates for queen. The vot­
ing hours are from eleven to one 
and every Carnegie student is ex­
pected to vote at least once! Make 
this queen the college choice—not 
the choice of a small minority.
As usual the winner will not be 
announced until the night of her 
coronation.
Girls from the Sophomore, Junior, 
and Senior classes who submitted 
petitions with twenty-five civilian 
signatures were eligible for election.
This year’s candidates are Peggy 
Cole, Francis Creelman, Leanore De 
Wall, Doris Ferraey, Lois Frishkorn, 
June Hawk, Jean Opdyke, Louisa 
Saul and Rea Simon.
As for the army queen—so far 
not so good—only one photograph 
has as yet been submitted. Time is 
a wastin’. You’ve got a good chance 
of having that pin up girl in your 
arms as queen on that eventful 
night. So hurry! Hurry! Hurry!
Notice
Scholarship application blanks 
are due in Mr. Murphy’s office not 
later than April first.
wires: “If guaranteed presence of 
young fathers will be glad to spend 
my day at Carnegie Tech.” Johnny 
L. advises students to strike for less 
homework, later curfew. East-bound 
Pegleg sends wire: “Red in C.I.T. 
colors sure indication of true object 
of Carnival. Will attend to uncover 
vile plot.”
Carnegie Tech, itself talks of 
nothing else, does nothing else any­
way. President Doherty promises 
free oil portrait for best dancer. 
States Professor Pugh: “Am I com­
ing to Spring Carnival? Brother, 
I’ll combine with a cute date and 
permute over to the gym.” Dr. 
Lloyd L. Dines says: “After due in­
tegration of the matter, I have come 
to the conclusion that everyone 
should, after careful denotation of 
the X and Y axis, plot his way to 
the Carnival.” Dr. Chworowsky is 
writing a voluminous thesis on “De­
mocracy and Spring Carnival.” Lip- 
py Hannum shouts: “That blind 
b.... didn’t call it right!”
Amidst all this excitement the 
Spring Carnival Committee just 
sits and wonders. Why is every­
body talking and nobody buying 
tickets? Ladies and Gentlemen, give 
these youngsters a hand, buy your 
tickets, and reduce your Income 
Tax.
Before signing off for tonight, 
some of the lesser news—the in­
vasion of the Continent began last 
night, and Allied Forces . . .
C.I.T. Symphony Gives 
Concert Next Sunday
A program of concertos will be 
presented by the graduating class 
of the department of music on Sun­
day, March 1, at 8:15 p.m. at the Qar- 
negie Music Hall. Assisting the per­
formers will be the student sym­
phony orchestra conducted by J. 
Vick O’Brien.
The program is as follows:
I
Concerto, No. 3, for French Horne
and Orchestra.......................Mozart
Allegro
Allegro
Elizabeth Hewitt
II
Concerto for Violin and Orches­
tra, Op. 64...............Mendelssohn
Allegro molto appassionato 
Marjorie Hill
III
Concerto, No. 4, Op. 70, for Piano
and Orchestra...............Rubinstein
Moderato assai
Elisabeth Bragdon
IV
Concerto, No. 2, Op. 23, for Piano
and Orchestra .......... MacDonald
Larghetto calmato
Lucy Borrelli
V
Concerto for Violin and Orches­
tra, Op. 26..............................Bruch
Allegro moderato 
Adagio
Babo Cuccagna
VI
Prelude to Act III, “Lohengrine” 
............................................ Wagner
John M. Daniels 
Appointed Dean
During the absence of Dr. Beryl
E. Warden, who has been granted 
leave of absence to accept a com­
mission as Lieutenant in the U. S. 
Naval Reserve, his responsibilities 
have been re-assigned to another 
member of the faculty. Although 
he already serves as Chairman of 
Admissions, Professor John M. 
Daniels will add even more la­
bors to his many duties. He has
been appointed Acting Director of 
the Division of Student Personnel 
and Welfare and Acting Dean of 
Students. Along with these two of­
fices he has assumed Dr. Warden’s 
responsibilities as Chairman of the 
Committee on Fees and Charges, 
and the Committee on Rules and 
Regulations. He will also undertake 
Dean Warden’s duties on the 
Committee on Calendar and Sched­
ules, the Committee on Publications, 
the Administrative Committee on 
the Division of Physical Welfare, 
and the Committee on Auxiliary 
Enterprises.
Maggie Murph Sophomore 
Wins Sewing Contest
Martha Sant, Margaret Morrison 
sophomore, last week was awarded 
a first prize of the Sub-Deb Contest 
at Kaufmann’s. The prize of a $25 
war bond was given for a pink 
chambray afternoon dress submit­
ted by her.
Martha, who lives in Pittsburgh, 
was formerly of Westinghouse High 
School and is here at Tech on a 
scholarship from the Home Eco­
nomics Club of Pittsburgh. Her first 
prize-winning article will be enter­
ed in the National Sewing Contest 
in New York and the first prize win­
ners there will be awarded a $100 
war bond and a three-day trip to 
New York City with all expenses 
paid.
Other Tech girls who submitted 
entries in the contest were: Jeanne 
Norris, Annetta Russell, Jane Hus­
sey, Martha Wagman, Ruth Davis, 
Betty Lou Grau, Iris Kwall, Toni 
fc^hlernitzauer.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1944
Cditosií /ì'uncÀcuA.
Statement of Fact
“The aim of education should be to teach us rather how to think, than what to 
think—rather to improve our minds, so as to enable us to think for ourselves, than 
to load the memory with the thoughts of other men.”—Beattie.
Last December when the members of the class of ’44 faced the culmi­
nation of their education, we shed a tear, in mourning, not for what they 
had lost, but for what they had failed to gain. Now as we sit, a mere six 
weeks from our own graduation, we can take a quick, objective look at 
ourselves to discover just what our education has made of us. Do we 
possess the power to think or merely an accumulation of the thoughts of 
others? Have we gained the ability to relate our store of knowledge to life 
or is it neatly catalogued in its respective narrow niches, applicable only 
in situations similar to those under which it was learned? Are we intelli­
gent or merely informed? Will we be an educated person or just another 
college graduate?
The American system of higher education of which Carnegie Institute 
of Technology is a sterling example, has produced thousands of college 
graduates, but comparatively few truly educated men and women. Some­
thing is lacking in a system which fails to keep up with the times.
But let us be more specific. The large majority of courses at this and 
other colleges is conducted by the Class-Room-Lecture method. Under this 
method of learning, the student sits with his classmates and listens to, or 
mentally slumbers to the continuous voice of a professor relating notes 
gathered from the minds of other men. Often, the notes of the instructor 
have been rehashed through so many semesters, that he, himself, no longer 
takes any interest in their presentation. The student is expectd to remain 
awake long enough to transfer a stale and borrowed mind into his note­
book. At the end of the term, that notebook must be sieved through the 
brain of the student onto a blue book or he has not successfully completed 
the course. If this be the education that is to create a world of free think­
ing, tolerant, peace loving men, then we may anticipate a World War three 
and four and forever.
The United States Army has taken over the education of much of our 
youth. Since time was scarce they had to search out the most efficient 
methods of teaching. We had seen them accomplish wonders. They have 
taught men in six months what it has taken us four years to learn. In spite 
of the time element, one difference remains in the two systems; they have 
absorbed an education—we have merely been exposed to one.
In an article in this month’s Reader’s Digest, Walter Adams states, 
“The Army has outlawed the classroom lecture as the poorest form of 
teaching. They employ the extensive use of films as a teaching aid. Psy­
chologists state that 90% of all learning is through the eyes and only 5% 
through the ears. Apply that statement to your own experience. Which 
is more starkly realistic, which more lasting in your memory, the book 
you read or the movie you see? Discussion classes are still another means 
of bringing knowledge home so that we may apply it to the reality of our 
lives. Nothing remains permanently in our minds unless we can see it as 
it affects us personally. Ask any student at Carnegie Tech what his favorite 
course has been and he will tell you that it was one in which he was per­
mitted to give expression to his own thoughts and to relate information 
to his existing world.
Recently we were discussing the course in Social Relations with an 
engineering student. Such a course, of which the sole purpose is to teach 
men how to orient themselves to society, cannot be a mere transfer of one 
mind to another, and for the most part, it is. It can only be successful if 
it employs the faculties of the student iij relating himself to the problems 
he must face. Each man is an individual. A lecture-class in which the 
assembled students are treated as a composite generality is exactly what 
is responsible for the average student’s intense dislike for the course. A 
few Soc Rel classes have been conducted on a discussion basis. These have 
been unusually successful. That fact alone, should prove the need for 
necessary changes. #
Why must we as students regress instead of progress? Why is our 
college afraid to give us the power to think?
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER *60© PHONE SCHENLEY 4S57
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief ...........................SC. 6888
Business Manager......................SC. 8951
atWWMWTIB row NATIONAL ADV«*TI«INO BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
GttUege Publishers Representative 
Vol .38N10C AREG New I0STG UG IG
CWCUO . sot to« « LOS AMCLCS * t,»» FRANCISCO
Fnterad m see«a«-eMss matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods._____Subscription Price >1.10 per year.
Editor...................................................................................................................... Louisa Saul
Military Editor ........................................................................... p/c- James W. Vaughan
Busivess Manager................................................................................................... Nick Reed
Managing Editors .....................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
News Editors..........................................................Nick Georges, Pfc. L. M. Van Deusen
Makeup Editors...... ......................................................... Marshall Nurenberg, Al Perry
Copy Editors ...................................................................................... Al Perry, Cy Corwin
Feature Editor ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Headline Editor ................................. ......................... ........................... Jerry Brickman
Printing Editor ........................................................................................... Adeline Herlick
Sports Editors..............................................Marshal Nurenberg, Pfc. Irving Perlmutter
Assistant Business Manager ...........................................................................Merle Wolfe
Personnel Manager ........:...................................................... Geri Racusin
MilUasuf. CditoA. Sp.eahi
The Military Section of the Editorial Staff wishes to apologize for 
what may have seemed like excessive sounding-off in some editorials to 
date. Particular attention is called to that of last week. It must be re­
membered that outside of the editorial column, a newspaper prints news; 
inside that editorial column, however, personal opinions are presented. 
Those expressed heretofore have been such. If they have conflicted with 
the opinions of the mass of Army personnel, we are sorry. They are per­
sonal, and nothing more.
There may have been some misunderstanding of the meaning of last 
week’s editorial, but that is neither here nor there. The Military Section 
of the TARTAN, such as it is, has as its primary intention, the presentation 
of military opinion. In this, it is unlike most other newspapers which try 
to lead, rather than follow and clarify, public opinion. At times, this 
disparity of purpose is neglected.
Very possibly the reason that the ideas to date have not been entirely 
catholic in feeling is that there is very little military influence on the 
sheet, and what there is lacks quality and quantity. The sum total of GI’s 
on the staff can be counted on the fingers of one hand. If none of you 
wonderful geniuses is interested enough in boosting the stock of the Army, 
then you’ll have to take the consequences. We are limited, both physically 
and intellectually, in anything we try. We aré possessed of none of the 
many attributes which are yours, and must, therefore, suffer in comparison.
If we say, for example, that Pittsburgh is a dull town, we lay ourselves 
open to rebuff and redress from all quarters. If we say that Tech is a fine 
engineering school, we are attacked from still other counties. The pot­
pourri of characters which is the Army, and particularly the ASTP, con­
tains too many divergent opinions for a universal acceptance of any given 
idea or statement. The complexity of composition of the Army, with an 
absolute cross-section of human thinking, makes all too evident the impos­
sibility of complete agreement. In any venture of this sort, the best that 
can be hoped for is a majority concurrence, but even that has become a 
whippoorwill flitting about, and making nasty cracks.
An editorial has never been written with the design of putting forth 
news. Editorials take some portion of the news and fit it to an opinion. 
That is the intention of all these items. They are the general opinions of 
a limited number of guys; by definition, they do not speak for the whole. 
And they do not speak for the whole because the whole has never spoken 
for itself. The very meager Military Section of this paper will continue 
to present its opinions as they are formed, and if they are not your feelings 
in the matter concerned, until you make a little more noise, it is just too
bad.
Graduate Exams
Continued from Page 1 
petition Techites will have to face 
after graduation. It is gratifying to 
know, therefore, that the mastery 
by the C.I.T. student of the four 
major scientific subjects is far above 
average.
Much more surprising than these 
results are our scores in the four 
groups dealing with the so-called 
liberal arts subjects. In these also 
we had a slight bfit marked edge 
over sophomores and seniors in Lib­
eral Arts colleges. One can only 
guess at the reason for this, but it 
seems likely that our Social Rela­
tions Program, which during the 
first two school years specializes in 
just such fields as economics and 
government, has been largely re­
sponsible for this. Our unexpected 
high score in biology, a subject not 
specifically taught in the engineer­
ing school, might also be due to the 
fact that sophomore Social Relations 
deals with many problems of hered­
ity and genetics.
The second part of the examina­
tion, the special engineering test, 
showed that our students stand just 
slightly below the senior engineer­
ing majors in other colleges. Con­
sidering the difference in training of 
two years, this result, too, is most 
satisfactory.
Similar tests will be given to the 
senior class near the end of next 
semester. The results of these ex­
ams even more than the scores of 
the recent one will indicate exactly 
the achievement of an Engineering 
student at Carnegie Tech. Dr. Por-
.. ACAC Minutes..
Thirty-seventh Meeting 
March 8, 1944 
MINUTES OF THE ARMY-CIVILIAN 
ACTIVITIES COUNCIL
The meeting was called to order at 5:20 p. m.
Present: Messrs. Heinz, Marcus, Rob­
bins, Van Deusen, Vaughn, and Wolff; 
Misses Rial, Skillington, and Bloom. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications
Mr. Wolff reported that there will be 
a meeting of the Publications Committee 
next week concerning the Tartan policy. Athletics
Mr. Robbins read the minutes of the In­
tramural Board meetings of February 29 
and March 7, and moved that the minutes 
be approved as read.
Motion carried.
Social
Miss Rial reported that the Spring Car­
nival Committee had decided the Cam­
pus Queen should have four attendants. 
Miss Rial read a petition in which the 
Committee requested A. C. A. C.’s per­
mission to hold the election for Campus 
Queen on Tuesday, March 14, from 11:00 a. m. until 2:00 p. m. In this election each 
civilian student, man and woman, will be eligible to vote for one candidate. Miss 
Rial moved that the petition be accepted.
Motion carried.
Miss Rial read a petition from Women’s 
Guild to hold a bridge party March 18 
from 2:00 p. m. to 5.00 p. m. in Exhibition 
Hall for the girls of Carnegie Tech and 
their mothers, and moved that the peti­
tion be approved.
Motion carried. ,
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM, 
_____________________________Secretary.
ter and the Curriculum Committee 
expect the combined results of the 
two examinations will suggest valu­
able changes and additions to our 
present curriculum.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
CriticalTemperature^aleA in fCJtcJu
Variety is the spice of life, they 
say, and the new play at the Little 
Theater is certainly very different 
than any of the others they have 
given this season. Ladies in Waiting 
is a real mystery melodrama, and 
it has the prime quality of a mys­
tery—suspense. That is the first 
thing that comes to the mind when 
thinking of the play. I have never 
seen anywhere a play which man­
ages to create suspense in the audi­
ence so beautifully. The most tan­
talizing thing is that one cannot put 
one’s finger just on the ingredient 
that makes this play successful in 
that way. It isn’t just the story, it 
isn’t just the music, it isn’t just the 
lighting . . . It is the perfect com­
bination of these that keeps the 
audience on the edge of its seat. 
However, this very suspense which 
is the best thing in the play, is also 
the worst. The audience tension 
rises to such a pitch that there is 
sudden relief in uncalled-for laugh­
ter — which immediately destroys 
the mood. It defeats its own pur­
pose; it is the old story of too much 
of a good thing.
It wouldn’t be fair to tell the story 
of the play, except to say that it 
begins when a private detective 
who has been invited to a house 
party to recover a stolen necklace 
finds instead a plot to murder the 
owner of the pearls. At the opening 
of the play a terrific storm is raging 
outside, which is very realistically 
staged. All through the play eerie 
music is played, which helps no end 
to building up the mood.
The play, which was written by 
Cyril Campion, has the unusual 
form of only two acts. Speculating 
on why it was constructed this way, 
since the action could easily be di­
vided into the customary three acts, 
I have come to the conclusion that 
the author must have done it out 
of pity for the audience, because the 
suspense at a logical second act- 
third act break would have been 
literally unbearable!
The cast is composed exclusively 
of women, and the less said about 
their acting the better. One or two 
were reasonably good, but the rest 
were pretty terrible. The ones that 
weren’t overacting seemed some-
WESTEEN PENNSYLVANIA’S MOST COM­PLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
YOU AND YOUR
OUT-OF-TOWN FRIENDS
Will find comfortable accommodations
^aleA ienfCeJ ^tAA
Be sure to make reservations well in 
advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
TECH MEN AND WOMEN ARE 
ESPECIALLY WELCOME
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
Opposite Mellon Institute
MAyflower 7700
By Hannah Estermann
how to have completely missed the 
spirit of their roles. The best were 
Mary Louise Abel as a psychic 
friend and Muriel Rosoff as a poor 
relative. Adelyne Roth played the 
detective a little too abruptly, while 
Joan Sedler and Nancy Hecht as 
servants seemed stereotyped. Per­
haps the other cast is better. But 
frankly, the second act of the play 
is so exciting that one doesn’t even 
notice the acting.
Discussion Group Launched
The Sunday Night Super Club of 
the First Baptist Church in Pitts­
burgh is launching a series of six 
discussions under the general 
themes of “Focus on Tomorrow,” 
and extends a cordial invitation to 
all those interested to attend the 
complete series of discussions.
Discussions will take place every 
Sunday beginning March 19. The 
speakers and their subjects are:
Mr. Francis James, Professor of 
History at Tech, who will speak on 
“The Political Basis For a Perma­
nent Peace.”
Dr. Bernard C. Clausen, Pastor of 
the First Baptist Church, will speak 
on “Dogs of War.”
Dr. J. P. Watson, Director of the 
Business Research Bureau, Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, speaks on “The 
Main Post-War Economic Problem 
Is People.”
Annual Red Cross Drive 
Expects Your Support!
The Annual Red Cross Drive will 
take place during the week between 
Monday, March 13, until Friday, 
March 17. Each day the drive will 
be handled by a different organiza­
tion. On Monday . it was the 
M.M.C.C. Senate and the Household 
Economics Club. Today it is Inter­
fraternity Council; Wednesday, 
Dorm Council; Thursday, Mortar 
Board and the Cwens; Friday, it 
will be the CWCA and the YMCA.
It is unnecessary to review again 
all the vital work that is being done 
by the Red Cross. It is also un­
necessary to tell everyone just how 
much to give. The absolute mini­
mum is twenty-five cents per stu­
dent. Don’t be afraid to put your 
two-bits in.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
The lights that played on their 
landing strips had much to do with 
the 135,000 hours flown by students 
at Columbia Army Air Field since 
that base had its last fatality or 
serious injury accident. It took a 
more elaborate system of lights 
than the public is apt to realize.
The lighting system imposed criti­
cal responsibility on a Carnegie 
Alumnus, Capt. Charles W. Ulmer. 
Exercise of Capt. Ulmer’s present
By Jerry Brickman 
specialty—he is base supervisor of 
field lighting—helped to a marked 
degree in the building up of CAAF’s 
no-fatality run, which is believed 
unique for an advanced or a two- 
engine flying school.
Before Captain Ulmer joined the 
Army, he was a management engi­
neer. Now that he is in the Army, 
he is applying his schooling in a 
profitable way.
This picture of Lt. Pete Dobrus, 
former Carnegie Tech football star, 
was taken somewhere in England 
as Dobrus was receiving a decora­
tion.
Student Employment
BOYS
Driving delivery truck for grocer. Mur­
ray Avenue. 65-70c per hour. Any free 
hours, know Squirrel Hill district.
Running lathe for company downtown. 
Mechanical or Electrical Engineer. 65c per hour.
Handyman—Saturday; home of faculty 
member; 50c per hour.
Houseman at local bowling alleys. 6:00- 
12:00 Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. 
$10.00.
Driving car for elderly lady. Any free 
hours, day or early evening. 50c per hour. 
Boy to clean wall paper; private home. 
Mechanical drawing tracers for engi­
neer downtown. Good rate.
BOYS AND GIRLS
Counselors for Brashear Association 
Settlement, 3:30-5:30 or 7:30-9:30. 65c per hour.
Camp counselors for summer work. 
GIRLS
Care of children, regularly or occasion­
ally.
Companion for elderly lady three or 
four days a week. Have dinner and wages. 
Stay 6-9:30. No work necessary. ,
Our Boys Need Musical Instruments 
on the Battlefront and in Camp
You can make a lonely soldier happy by sending him 
your old, unused musical instruments—harmonicas, flutes; 
ocarinas, bazookas, accordions, pocket-size music- 
makers of all kinds. Here's all you do:
1 You take your gift to your 
nearest Coca-Cola dealer.
2 The Coca-Cola truck picks 
it up and sends it to Unde Sam.
3 The U. S. Army sends it to 
the boys.
4 In camp and overseas. 
American boys will we!* 
come your gift.Don’t delay«do it today.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMP AN F. PITTSBURGH, PA
e 1944 T*. C-C C*. .

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1044
SPORTS
Sportlight
By R. J. Hopkins
Track: John Kelly, a post graduate student here at Carnegie, was on the 
New York athletic club’s one mile relay team of Kelly, Rogers, Dailey and 
Wallace which won the National A.A.U. title. The race was run on Feb. 26 
at Madison Square Garden against West Point, Villanova, N. Y. U., Dartmouth 
and Columbia.
John is a graduate of Princeton, where he was a stellar performer on the 
Princeton Track squad. Here at Carnegie, he is a member of the printing de­
partment. Recently he has been sick with the flu, but any day now he will be 
back pounding the wooden floor in the gym where he has been working out 
e^cry evening in preparation for various meets.
* * * * *
Range: The past week has proved a successful one for the Rifle Team.
In postal matches, they defeated Lehigh, Michigan and Washington Univer­
sity, while losing only to Culver. Before heleft for a commission, Rice shot 
the highest of his life; a neat 284 out of a possible 300.
Among the sixty girls who have been out practicing for the Girls’ Rifle 
Team is Miss Jean Garland. Miss Garland is a graduate of Munhall High 
School, where she was a member of the Rifle squad. While there, she earned 
for herself, in 1942, the title of Interscholastic champion. She will undoubt­
edly prove the neucleus around which Coach Sommers will build his team. In 
practice she shot a score of 249 out of a possible 250.
*****
Basketball Basketball is still very much in the spotlight despite the fact 
that the Carnegie Varsity, AST’ers and the Intramural League have finished 
their respective schedules. The Section Tourney is still going full blast and 
won’t be completed for another two weeks. Also, the Company League, at 
present led by the Co. E aggregatiotn, is just getting up steam. The 3302 Re­
serves, with a record of eleven wins and five losses, still has two games left to 
play.
Lieutenant Meyers’ cohorts have split their two most recent efforts in the 
City Service League. They lost by two points to the Sewickley Coast Guard, 
28-30; Led by Moynahan’s 19 points, they swamped the Navy 65-21.
*****
Sidelights: The first perfect score ever to be attained in the Physical
Efficiency Tests was rung up by Wendell Sheldon of Co. D. Sheldon has a 
score of five hundred for five tests.
In going over the 3302 quintet was Deborttoli wTith 32 fouls. A close sec­
ond was Gaza with 30, although he spread his over more games.
YOU CAN’T LOSE ¡1
^al eAii^ niAfCJCit ecCulCt-
That’s right! Because if your American Express Travelers Cheques are k>K, stolen, or destroyed uncountersigned, American Express will 
promptly refund your loss. These Cheques are handy to carry, the size 
of a dollar bill and are readily spendable anywhere.
American Express Travelers Cheques are issued in denominations of 
$10, $20, $50 and $100. The cost is Y* of 1% (75*! on each $100 
purchased), minimum 40(f. For sale at Banks, and Railway Express offices.
tceJu-t* e7/Jeff 
CJt2eAeJf -^e'def
WANTED—CAMP LEADERS AND COUNSELORS
FOR SMALL CO-ED CHILDREN’S CAMP DURING MONTHS OF 
JULY AND AUGUST. NEEDED ARE EXPERIENCED DIRECTOR, 
HEAD COUNSELOR, SPECIALTY PEOPLE, NURSE, DIETICIAN, 
COOKS AND KITCHEN AIDS. ARRANGEMENTS CAN BE MADE 
FOR MARRIED COUPLES.
WRITE AT ONCE GIVING FULL DETAILS AS TO EXPERI­
ENCE, EDUCATION, AND TRAINING AND SALARY DESIRED. 
ADDRESS CORRESPONDENCE TO EXECUTIVE
Director, Y. M. and W. H. A315 South Bellefield Ave.,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Section Tourney Nears 
Finish; Close Games 
Feature Third Week
Only a few remaining games mar­
red the record of close, hard played 
contests during the third week of 
the tourney, which is rapidly near­
ing the finish line.
The results of games played dur­
ing the last week show E-12, victor 
over E-21 by a score of 16-13, with 
Perlin showing the way for the win­
ners; D-31 trounced by an alert D-21 
quintet 23-18, Wentley being high 
for D-21; C-42, led by Rose and Ort- 
man, triumphed over C-41, 21-12; 
C-21, led by the versatile Lookkalo 
with 16 points, chopped down C-51, 
38-21. With Scot showing the way, 
B-41 bested B-12 by ten points, 31- 
21. In a runaway, A-52 trumped 
B-21, 34-14, with Bruno Bianchetto 
dropping six buckets to lead A-52.
Paced by Steinberg, A-41 defeated 
a game D-21 outfit 28-19 in which 
Laizman played well for the losers. 
A-42 caught D-31 on a hot day and 
trounced the D team 26-9. The fast, 
aggressive B-32 five piled up 35 
points against a bewildered C-22 
team which could only catch its 
breath long enough to put through
eight points. Wulkey scored 20 of 
his team’s total.
Only 2 points separated B-31 and 
C-21 after the final whistle of a 
closely contested defensive game. 
B-31 won by a score of 14-12. In 
another close game E-41, led by 
Witt, eked out a one point win over 
E-52, 18-17. A-22, playing smooth 
ball, had it all over A-12, winning 
out handily, 25-17. The baseball 
game of the week was supplied by 
A-ll and A-21, the latter winning 
by a score of 13-9.
E-22 bested a good E-ll team in a 
close game from start to finish, 30- 
25. Birback, with 16 points was high 
for the winners, while Croin with 
eight was high for the losers. The 
best game of the week was played 
between E-41 and E-12. Going into 
the last quarter the score was 18-1O 
with E-12 in front. E-12 managed 
to hold its one point advantage and 
won 22-21.
E-42, led by the effective Mr. Lo- 
pof, bested E-51, 30-23. Lopof with 
14 points was high man for the con­
test.
In another runaway, B-32 beat 
C-32 by a score of 31-8. Murphy was 
high man with ten points. Barker 
led the play as his B-31 bested C-31 
in a low scoring contest, 19-12.
StaA. o{ the Week
Johe Is Tech's Star Swimmer
Carnegie Tech. The was one of the 
leading scorers on the Westinghouse 
High School swimming team. But 
his school activities did not stop at 
swimming, for he was also manager 
of the football team and president 
of the school’s dramatic club. While 
in high school he won a prize for 
acting, and he wishes he were a 
dramat right now.
Upon entering Carnegie, Howard 
started his athletic career off on the 
right foot. Anyone who watched 
Citcom Clan’s intramural football 
team in action last summer will re­
member Howie’s fine work as cen­
ter. He was chosen as center on the 
civilian all star intramural team. In 
addition to football, he also played 
volleyball for Citcom, whose team 
won the championship. During his 
second semester he served as life 
guard at the school pool.
Torn between his desire to be a 
dramat and an engineer he chose 
what appeared to be the lesser of 
two evils and registered as a Mech- 
Aero. Despite the time his studies 
consume, he has still been able to 
actively participate in many school 
activities. More students on campus 
could follow Howard’s example.
Blonde, versatile Howard Johe is 
this week’s “Star of the Week” be­
cause of his stellar performance in 
easily gaining victories in the swim­
ming meet between Carnegie and 
the downtown YMCA. Carnegie 
won by a score of 39-38 for the 
team’s first victory of the season. 
Howard, known as “The Fish” by 
his friends, copped first place in the 
220 and 440 yard free style races. 
He won with what seemed to be 
little effort, taking both first places 
with a comfortable lead.
Howard’s swimming career was 
well on its way when he entered
GET HEPPED 
ON YOUR HIT PARADE
BY BUYING
HIT RECORDS 
—AT—MAJESTIC
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE CO.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bldr.
Dance 
Where It’s Young and Gay
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL
*.*-*44
norm
TERRACE
85 cents per person
Pina Tax
Ischimim

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
SPORTS
THE GRANDSTAND
Now that the intramural basket­
ball season has ended, it looks as 
though everything is going to be 
rather quiet on the Carnegie sports 
front A pretty sad situation which 
should be remedied as soon as pos­
sible. Our nomination to fill the gap 
would be the selection of a civilian 
all star team.
What could be done with such a 
team? The first possibility which 
enters our mind is a civilian all star 
versus army intramural champion­
ship game. Such a game, conducted 
along the same lines as the football 
game of last semester should be 
very ' interesting. Unlike football, 
basketball is a game which requires 
more skill than physical brawn. 
Several players in the intramural 
league have repeatedly demonstrat­
ed this skill, and we believe that 
given a chance to practice together 
they would be more than a good 
match for the army.
Another and perhaps even better 
possibility would be to match this 
same all star team against the var­
sity. Still a third alternative would 
be to match this team against 
the league champions, namely the 
SAE’s. Actually there is no reason 
that we know of why all of these 
games could not be played, and they 
would certainly help to keep alive 
the student body’s interest in com­
petitive athletics.
The plans to formulate such an 
all star team could be easily worked 
out. One player from every team in 
the league would provide an ample 
number of men for the squad, and 
at the same time be fair to all or­
ganizations which participated in 
the league. We respectfully pass 
these suggestions to the intramural 
board, hoping—but doubting—that 
they will do something with them.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
c m- j $3.00 per 
- • “ s Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO*
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
By Marshall Nurenberg
Swimming Team Party
If you don't think it pays to win 
a victory, ask the boys on the swim­
ming team what happens when you 
do. In recognition of the team’s ef­
forts, Coach Risedorph threw a gala 
bowling party for the boys last Sat­
urday night. Coke flowed like 
water.
The feature event of the evening 
was the bowling contest to deter­
mine the winners of the prizes the 
coach put up as incentives. Howie 
Johe came in first with a high of 
169 to receive as a reward a col­
lapsible tie rack. For further infor­
mation on Howie’s talents we refer 
you to Star of the Week. Second 
place went to Ed Friedman who 
won a scrap book. Johnny Conry 
won the booby prize of a key ring 
with an all time low, the score of 
which no one will tell us.
Among those present were: How­
ard Johe, John Conry, Harry Gottes- 
man, Ralph Eyman, Nick Reed, Bill 
Emerson and Paul Gibian. After 
bowling the boys satisfied their 
now huge appetites at the Webster. 
Hall coffee shop. The party broke 
up at 11:30. Everyone present had 
a sane, sober, good time.
Spring Carnival
All organizations who are going 
to sponsor booths at Spring Carni­
val must submit their plans to 
Merle Wolff, (SC. 8952), by 9:00 
P.M., Thursday, March 16.
Numbers to be sung and a list of 
the members of each competing 
team in Sing and Swing should be 
submitted to Merle Wolff, also, by 
7:00 P.M. Monday, March 20.
Co. Basketball Calendar
^Mon., A vs. C—Tues., B vs. D 
Wed., E vs. B—Thurs., D vs. A 
Fri., C vs. E
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
In a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
SAE’s Are Champions; 
Delts Come In Second
It’s all over now, even the shout­
ing. The SAE quintet is the official 
champion of this season’s intramur­
al basketball league. Opening last 
week’s games was the Beta Sig-SAE 
contest. The SAE’s needed to win 
this one in order to clinch the cham­
pionship, and from the way they 
played they certainly knew it. The 
Beta Sigs never had a chance as the 
SAE’s hit their prime in winning a 
49-15 victory. Perry Culver starred 
for the SAE’s as usual, but the en­
tire team played great ball and de­
serves thè championship.
Still a little groggy from their 
game with the SAE’s, the Beta Sigs 
tried again the following night; this 
time with Tau Delta Phi. Both
teams fought desperately hard in 
what proved to be a rugged game 
(see Sherman Cohen). However, the 
boys from Shadyside proved to be a 
little too much for the Beta Sigs as 
they ended up on the right side of a 
23-19 score.
Paced by Wahrenburg, the Delts 
came in second in the league by 
smothering Theta Xi, 42-10. As can 
be seen from the one-sided score 
the Delts were never in trouble 
throughout the contest. Finishing 
out the week was the Beta-Kappa 
Sig game which was won by the 
Beta’s 33-18.
LEAGUE STANDINGS 
Team Won Lost
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ............................ 7 1
Delta Tau Delta ...................................... 6 2
Tau Delta Phi ........................................ 4 8
Beta Theta Pi .......................................... 5 3
Citcom ...................................................... 5 S
Kappa Sigma ......................................... 3 4
Theta Xi ................................................... 3 4
Beta Sigma Rho ..................................... 3 6
Delta TJpsilon ......................................... 1 g
"Well, Sarge, I was thinking 
about calling the folfcs when 
I get off tonight
If you were away in camp, 
you#d know how much that call 
means.
You can help the service men 
by not making any casual Long 
Distance calls between 7 and 
10 at night.
That's when most of them call 
and there's a big rush on many 
circuits.
•‘GIVE 7 TO 10 
TO THE 
SERVICE MEN"
THE BELL TELEPHONE 
COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

THL CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1944(Pit Catruecjte ]plaid
Contrary to previous columns, 
your eight-ball editor was found 
peeking out from behind the eight- 
ball this week. The reason?—What’s 
been happening around the campus 
lately. Yes, you tell ME. Surely 
every one can’t be hiding behind 
the E.S.S.S. posters, can they? Well, 
if they are, they better come out 
because the veil has been lifted on 
this clever hoax. Well, to get down 
to earth and to the point, a matter 
of interest to note is that most of 
our Army students are leaving us 
here at Tech. We do hope that all 
you gals will show up at the E.S.S.S. 
and give these guys a good send-off. 
What do you say? And boys — 
wherever you go, remember our 
prayers are with you. I just had to 
mention you swell guys in this col­
umn because I know the Evening 
School Students would like to send 
you their best regards and good 
wishes in appreciation for your in­
terest in our socials. Good luck, 
boys, and remember Carnegie Tech 
as it will remember you—just one 
swell gang.
Does anyone happen to know if 
Mrs. Skinner’s voice has evened up 
yet and what happened to the boys 
in Mr. Pearson’s harmony class. 
Seems to me, we started out with 
four, now we don’t seem to have 
one. It can’t be that the girls scared 
them away. Hey, what goes on in 
chem lab—bright lights, loud talk­
ing, and what have you over there 
lately. I think I’ll have to take 
this up myself (always did want to 
know what would happen when an 
electric spark and nitro-glycerin 
shake hands.)
And in conclusion, may I add that 
if anybody has any interesting gos­
sip he would like to have put in 
the paper, please drop a line in the 
Plaid mail box at the post office in 
Industries Hall. Come on students, 
here’s your chance to express your­
self in this great democracy, so let’s 
take advantage of this precious 
right that we are so very fortunate 
to possess.
Siluesi JlinitUf 
YOO UCAN ’YTN
History tells us that wars are in 
a definitely restricted sense benefi­
cial to the human race. It is very 
difficult for the average citizen to 
accept this statement even passively 
because war is known to be destruc­
tive both to wealth and to lives. If 
one were to be objective in his ar­
gument concerning the silver lining 
of any war, however, one would im­
mediately introduce a list of discov­
eries and inventions which were 
either accelerated or developed 
wholly because of the extraordinary 
appetite of war for new implements 
and which have then become prime
Dance With Joy To Bill LeRoy 
At Eve. School ShamrockS wing
Place: Exhibition Hall 
Date: Sat, March 18
The E. S. S. S. will be a big suc­
cess. We hope! It all depends on 
you. The only thing that will keep 
this dance from being a failure is 
your presence. If you don’t attend 
this affair, the dance will be unsuc­
cessful, and you will have missed 
a very enjoyable evening.
We have done our part. We have 
worked very hard to insure every­
one a good time. First of all there 
is going to be a local popular band 
—Bill LeRoy and his orchestra. No 
doubt, you have danced to his music 
many times, and we do not have to 
inform you of his fine arrangements 
of your favorite songs. Among the 
novelty dances planned will be the 
Paul Jones and the Irish jig. Dur­
ing the intermission, we have ar­
ranged to present a radio play. The 
talented members of the social com­
mittee will perform. Those of you 
who saw the pantomime presented 
at the valentine party know of their 
ability. You may be sure you will 
enjoy this play.
So you see, we have done our 
part, now won’t you do your part by 
coming and making this, our last 
affair of the season, the best dance 
ever! ! ! !
factors in increasing the standard 
of post-war living. In this category 
one would place the discovery of 
nitro-glycerin, without which our 
civilization would indeed be handi­
capped. Without this ingredient of 
dynamite, our transportation system 
would have suffered. Likewise one 
can show that the rapid develop­
ment of the airplane will result in 
better communication and transpor­
tation after this war to the resultant 
benefit of all people. History clearly 
demonstrates the value of greater 
and better communication in pre­
serving and prolonging the peace. 
In another positive illustration, one 
could show the post-war benefits of 
the newly-discovered sulfa drugs, 
penicillin, atrabine, and countless 
other drugs which will go far in 
easing man’s struggle against sick­
ness and disease.
But perhaps all these things are 
in themselves of no value if the hu­
man race itself cannot learn to use 
them wisely and properly. One can 
then say that war does produce 
other benefits besides those purely 
materialistic. One can argue that 
war, ruthlessly waged, does raise in 
man a greater appreciation of the 
moral and aesthetic values of his 
environment. Not only does he de­
sire to insure the future generation 
against war, but he begins to appre­
ciate and to treasure things other 
than the materialistic desires he 
previously held; he discovers the 
value of cooperation with his fel­
low man, not only in the results ob­
tained, but also in the application 
of his efforts.
Things to Think About
<This is the sixth in a series of articles 
discussing the decline of registration in 
the evening school).
During the past several weeks, 
the Plaid has been running a column 
devoted to registration and its vari­
ous aspects; how far-reaching and 
serious the effects of low registra­
tion figures can be; and what sug­
gestions and remedies are available 
to make adjustments looking to­
wards a resumption as quickly as 
possible when conditions change.
In telling the story this column of 
the Plaid has been handicapped 
greatly because of the registra­
tion. Since only a fraction of the 
students formerly registered — 
approximately 500—are on the cam­
pus, it would mean that only a 
small number get the paper. This 
small number is further reduced 
since all of those who are registered 
do not get the paper as many times 
there are none available in the cor­
ridors.
. Faced with this condition, the 
evening students will have to use 
other means to spread the story 
about Carnegie Tech and its advan­
tages. Each student can become a 
potential salesman and take it upon 
himself to think and talk Carnegie 
to his friends and associates where 
he is employed. Too often one be­
comes self-centered and thinks in 
terms of self unmindful that by 
helping others to get an education 
he is helping himself materially. 
This comes about reflectively since 
by increasing registration more stu­
dents are on the campus, more 
demands are in evidence for courses, 
and more classes can be started. 
Think what this can mean to Car­
negie.
All of us have been benefited im­
measurably by attending classes. 
We have been enabled to take on 
new assignments in our daily work; 
we have been equipped with addi­
tional training so as to fill new po­
sitions; we have taken on new 
trusts; in short we have become 
more valuable citizens in our par­
ticular community. Our training at 
Carnegie furnishes an entry to busi­
ness opportunity which should not 
be overlooked by the evening stu­
dent body. And what, in return for 
this boost, are we doing for our 
Alma Mater? Surely it is little, in­
deed, if each of us were to be the 
cause of five new students register­
ing during the next term. Let us 
see what can be done in this regard.
KEEP ON...................
* ^wekiMft&C'Attkeisf *
* WITH WM BONDS *
* * * * -J» *
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Edward A. Macha 
News Editor 
Joseph Rymar 
Photographer
George RifflePage edited by Evening School Students of Car negie Institute of Technology. All views or opin­ions expressed in editorial column are not neces­sarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.Staff
Gladys Bayer Elmer Decima Norma L. DeLillo Mary DeMaria Albert C. Flanders John Hundertmark Doris Kenneweg Thelma KitchenFred Vichich
William E. Kuskie Joseph E. Luncher S. W. Marcinizyn E. E. McDonald Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray Caroline Noll Dorothy Papa
*7/te 2'dito'i CJUtl
I wonder how busy the president 
of our institute is going to be during 
the next few weeks, because the 
evening school, around this time of 
the year, looks forward to socially 
mingling with him.
Last year was one of disappoint­
ment, for President Robert E. Do­
herty was in and out of Washing­
ton as many times as a bee is in 
and out of a flower in the middle 
of summer. As a result, our En­
gineers’ banquet was held without 
Mr. Doherty putting in an appear­
ance. Worse yet, the annual dinner 
for evening student graduates didn’t 
even take place, and last year was 
a prize year for the evening school 
as far as graduation was concerned. 
(See next week’s issue of the Plaid.)
So let us hope that our president 
will find time to participate in some 
of the evening school functions this 
year despite his great number of 
activities.
Me*t Only
Engineers—you owe it to your­
self to relax after a full year of hard 
work at the office and the plant. 
You’ve kept your nose to the grind­
stone at night school too. So now 
let yourself go! Let your hair down! 
Come to the Engineers’ Banquet, 
Saturday, April 1. Enjoy the com­
panionship of your fellow engineers 
and students in the pleasant atmos­
phere of the Gold Room of the 
Roosevelt Hotel.
A full evening of entertainment 
is planned beginning with a full- 
course turkey dinner topped off 
with a floor show that only the En­
gineers’ Banquet can offer. Supple­
menting this will be many free sou­
venirs and door prizes. Several out­
standing engineers will appear as 
guest speakers.
