HOME CONCERT 
MUSIC HALU 
MAR. 21
VOL. XII. NO. 21CÎhr (Jarían
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
GET THAT 
THISTLE 
NOW
MARCH 6, 1918
LARGEST AUDIENCE OF SEASONSEES HARD FIGHT AGAINST STATE
Doherty and Hamman Play 
Excellent Game Against 
Visiting Stars
TEAM WORK IMPROVES
One of the best exhibitions of bas­
ketball ever staged iii our gym was 
given last Friday evening. The score, 
5.4-30 in favor of Penn State, does 
not, possibly, look very attractive, 
but anyone who saw the game will 
give his word for its excellence.
Tech, as usual, when it fights a 
strong team, played wonderful ball. 
. especially during the first? half. Iu 
fact, the five outplayed Penn State 
during the first period as the score 
24-22 in favor of Tech shows. A very 
radical change in the lineup, apparent­
ly for the better, accounts for this fine 
showing. Hamman, the Plebe cap­
tain, played forward with “Jimmy” 
Doherty. Both men played whirl-wind 
ball. Hamman caged four field goals 
during the period, one of which he 
jumped in under the basket from 
jump- ball. Doherty made some very 
spectacular shots. He dropped one in 
from in back of the center of the field 
and two from the extreme side of the 
field. He made another goal on a. well 
worked signal play when “Gretz.” 
tapped the ball off to him., Six points 
more go to Doherty’s credit during 
this period on six successful attempts 
out of eight on the foul ilne.
Gretzler got the tip-off continually 
during the first period which aided 
considerably in holding Penn who 
therefore had to play more on the de­
fensive. Leet and Cosgrove held th oil­
men Mullan and Young in excellent 
style.
Penn State lacked Wolfe their reg­
ular guard. Fast, a sub-guard, who 
played a bit against our live at State 
(Continued on Pa£e Three.)
PITT FRATERNITYHEN 
GUESTS AT SMOKER
The Zeta Lambda Epsilon Frater­
nity gave a smokei* last Friday night 
to the Chi-Oniicrori chapter oC Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon Fraternity of the 'Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh.
All the active members and pledgees 
of both chapters were present and 
many alumni added their presence to 
the crowd. Several S.'A. E. alumni 
from other chapters dropped in dur­
ing the evening to help things along.
Several novel stunts were pulled off 
by the hosts and the visitors respond­
ed with songs and cheers^ that were 
certainly not lacking in pep.
The affair from start to finish' was 
pronounced a decided success and it 
succeeded admirably in more firmly 
uniting the cordial relations between 
the two houses.
CIRLS HEAR TALK BY 
MISS IRIS CALDERHEAD
How the National Woman’s Party 
finally succeeded in getting the Wom­
an Suffrage Amendment Bill before 
Congress| was told the M. M. C. S. 
girls by Miss Iris Calderhead in a very 
interesting speech last Wednesday at 
a special assembly. She told how the 
powerful Democartic caucus refused 
to bring up the Suffrage Bill in Con­
gress until the president had first giv­
en it his assent; how the Woman’s 
National Party then applied to the 
president and were told by him to 
concert public attention upon it; and 
finally how they did concert public 
attention by the famous picketing-be­
fore the White House. Miss Calder­
head was, herself, a picket and had 
many interesting experiences—made 
more interesting by a pleasing voice 
and personality—to relate. For one 
thing, she told of her three days’ im­
prisonment which s'he considered very 
worth while, as on January 9, the 
president declared himself in favor of 
country-wide woman suffrage. This 
was quickly taken up as a political 
issue by both Republicans and Demo­
crats, and the Woman Suffrage 
Amendment Bill was passed by the 
House, and may be put before the Sen­
ate any time. Miss Calderhead, speak­
ing for the Woman's National Flirty, 
wishes alj of us to help get it through.
“THE KINO'S THRESHOLD” TECH TEAMS TACKLE 
PRESENTED BY PLEBES PITT FIVES FRIDAY
Paquin Plays Leading ciîole Game on Home Floor Gives 
Effectively Excellent Qiance For
CLODS PRESENT PROGRAM THREE TIMES IN PREPARATION FOR HOME CONCERT
SIGNOR SCALZO
TRACK SCHEDULE READY; 
TWO TRIPS FOR SQUAD
The track schedule which is round-' 
ing into shape will be one of the best 
schedules ever offered Tech track men. 
The first meet will probably be at 
home with Bethany. The squad will 
then take two trips, first to Easton to 
meet Lafayette; and then to Gran­
ville, Ohio, to compete with Dennison. 
The last two meets will be at home 
with Westminister and Pitt.
Of the veterans back this year there 
are Benter, Miller and Schmidt, dis­
tance men, and Russel and Lingen- 
felser, sprinters. In the field, events, 
only Captain Ellerton, weight man, 
and Woodward, pole vaulter, are in 
school.
An appeal is made once more for 
candidates. There are now enough 
. men out to form a fair track squad 
but a good many more men are need­
ed to have the squad anything like 
that of former years, when track was 
a big sport in Tech.
Practice is on Mondays, Wednes­
days and Fridays at 4:30 or as soon 
after as possible. If none of these, 
days are open come around to the 
gym Saturday morning, at least, it 
you have any track ability at all.
TRENCHES WILL BE DUG 
ON FLAGSTAFF HILL
Due chiefly to the kind co-operation 
of City Superintendent of Parks 
Burke, permission has been granted 
to the institute authorities to use the 
western front of Flagstaff Hill, the 
slope facing Oakland, for the course 
in modern trench-digging that... will 
soon be part of the li.'O. T. C. curri­
culum at Tech. More definite infor­
mation concerning the course is not 
available. Major Lyle is now in New 
York, one of the objects of his visit 
being to consult, the Commandant of 
the Eastern Department of the United 
States .Army in regard to certain mili­
tary courses that the students of the 
Carnegie R. O. T. C. will be required 
to take.
Until Major Lyle returns, nothing 
more definite will be known concern­
ing the summer camp except that it 
will not be at-Camp Louise Carnegie. 
The courses in surveying that have 
beon given every summer to prospec­
tive^ .Juniors in the Science school, 
will this summer be given in Schen 
ley Park. The granting of permission 
by the city authorities to'use the park 
for this purpose is also due to the in­
terest that Superintendent Burke has 
manifested in the plans of the mili­
tary committee at Tech.
Camp Louise Carnegie will probably 
be given over to the M. M. C. S. Agri­
cultural Unit., thereby affording this 
organization ideal means for realiz­
ing its. high purpose.
Thursday afternoon. February 2S.: ! 
the .Plebes of the department of Dm j 
mafic Arts, made their first bid for 
public favor in the theater of the \ 
School of Applied Design—presenting! 
"The King's Threshold,” Wm. Butler 
Yeates' beautiful plea for the suprem­
acy of art as expressed in poetry.
The play is worthy of the best effort 
of fully developed talent, and the cast 
is to be congratulated upon giving a 
ceditable and interesting performance 
of such very exacting material.
Mr. Lawrence Paquin. in the leading 
role of “Seanchan.” the poet, read his 
lines with feeling and an artistic ap­
preciation of climax. He possesses a 
well modulated voice of excellent car­
rying quality—a valuable nsset in the 
interpretation of this role.
Mr. Hubert Clark’s “King Guiare.” 
was somewhat rigid—but sincere. The 
reading of his lines suffered from j 
faulty diction. It is not a pleasant 1 
role at best.
Miss Ruth Farmer’s “Fedelm,’’ the j 
sweetheart of “Seanchan,” had the | 
charm of naturalism. A certain- swift-} 
ness of delivery lent a touch of impet­
uosity to the character which added | 
to its charm.
Mr. M. McAteer’s interpretation of 
“The Mayor of Kinava,” was one of 
(Continued on Page Three»
Victory
The final and most interesting game 
of the basketball season will be play­
ed next Friday, March S, beginning at 
7:150 with the Pitt Freshies and Pitt 
Varsity. All indications point to an 
even battle and an extremely good 
chance for either team to be victori­
ous. If the Tech five plays anywhere 
near as well as it did during the first 
half of last Friday’s game the Pitt 
Li.am will surely have its hands full.
Coach McCulloeh is putting his men 
through a stiff workout this week so 
as to give the newly formed five as 
much signal practice as possible. Ham­
man and Doherty will start at forward 
just as in the Penn State game. It 
is extremely lucky, in a way, that the 
team has suffered so many losses late­
ly. for now, as a result, we have the 
fastest combination'of forwards, of the 
whole season, and that just before the 
Pitt game. Gretzler will play center 
and Cosgrove and Leet guard.
Pitt’s lineup will probably be the 
.same as it was in the game at. Tree’s 
gym with the exception of their cen­
ter, Robinson will jump center instead 
oi Nicolas. Penman and Levine will 
•bfc at forward with McLaren and 
Easterday at guard.
(Continued on Page Three)
nnnutmntxnntxunxmtinunnnmmttiinntxttttmttxtxtttxnnmxmxutxmtttttuutttt.
I CONCERT TICKETS
§ First Floor —All seats except last four rows...................$1.50
—Third and fourth rows from back..............$1.00
•—Last two rows................................................. 75c
It First Balcony —First three rows ..............................................$1.50
|! —Next two rows.................................................$1.00
—Next two rows ............................................... 75c
p —^Remainder ......................................................... 50c
jj Second Balcony—First three rows........................................... 75c
—Remainder ....................................................... 50c
DANCE TICKETS
Those holding' two $1.00 or $1.50 tickets are privileged to 
g secure dance tickets for $1.00 additional. Dance tickets may 
« be had from Manager Faville or any one of the executive 
ti committee.8ttsmmsiiatjmmnmmmmmttjmmmmmimtmimimiKmmmmmimtmHimt:
Scalzo and La Marca Will 
Both Appear on 
Program
FEATURES PLANNED
BASEBALL SCHEDULE 
ROUNDING INTO SHAPE
SIG NONR SICASLG
?> The 1916 Thistde said, “If you 
•> have ordered your Thistle, order *J* 
*> another one!!! Your aunty will *> 
?> enjoy it too.” «5*
The baseball schedule is rounding 
out into pretty fair shape. Thus far, 
five games are practically certainly 
scheduled and the Michigan Aggies 
have signified their willingness to 
play us here or on their field and Man­
ager Todd is now trying to reach an 
agreement with them.
The schedule consists of two games 
with Bethany, two with Waynesburg 
and one with thè Collegians of Pitts­
burgh. Since tlie Science commence­
ment exercises come Mayr 10 this year 
the season will end pretty close to 
that time since the majority of the 
members of the team are Science 
men.
The following schedule is not abso­
lutely certain:
April 22—Bethany—Awray 
April 27—Waynesburg—Away 
April 30—Collegians—Home 
May 1—Waynesburg—Home 
May 11—Bethany—Home 
The matter of arranging a schedule 
has been extremely difficult this year 
because a great many of! the colleges 
have dropped baseball on account of 
the war. We will not get a chance to 
play the University of Pittsburgh for 
this reason.
Of the veterans - back, Captain Do­
herty, our shortstop, and Gretzler who 
plays in the outfield, form the nucleus 
(Continued on Page Three.)
BAND CONTINUES WORK 
ON MILITARY BALL
At the Military Ball to be given at. 
Lhe Hotel Schenley on April 19, a large 
attendance is assured. Members of 
the C. T. T. Baud, under whose aus­
pices the ball is to be given, have al­
ready been besieged by requests for 
tickets. *
The ticket's will be placed on sale 
immediately, following the regular re­
hearsal of the band this afternoon. 
They may be purchased from any 
member of the band. The admission 
price has finally been placed at $1.50 
a couple.
The ball is causing considerable in­
terest, it being the first of its kind at 
Tech under the military regime. The 
band, under the capable direction of 
Professor Sullivan deserves complete 
success, in recognition of the w.ork 
done by it this year. The music is to 
be one of the features of the ball.
Y. M. C. A. SECRETARY! 
WILL TALK TO GIRLS
On Thursday next, “Cliff” Barbour, 
the new Y. M. C. A. Secretary from 
the University of Pittsburgh, will ad­
dress the Y. W. C. A.-meeting, pre­
senting to the girls the Northfield pro­
gram for the study of tlie Christian 
Principles of Democracy. There is no 
use in having our boys go “over the 
pond” for the upholding of principles 
of democracy if people at home are j 
not going to foster and live up to j 
them to the best of their ability. The 
plan is to have the students of Tech 
enrolled in small study groups where 
they can take up a book dealing with 
principles of justice, righteousness and 
love, and thrash out by question and 
answer, just how they feel about these 
things. Mrs. Hamerschlag will be 
present in the interest of the Red 
Cross, arnl all the girls are urged to 
come to hear what she lias to say. 
At seven o’clock, the meeting will ad­
journ to the-sewing rooms on the sec­
ond floor where greater activity than 
ever before will be expected in the 
very near future.
M. M. C. S. GIRLS ADOPT 
FRENCH WAR ORPHAN
A French orphan, Marie Jeanne 
Capel has been adopted by the stu­
dents of Margaret Morrison, in honor 
of Dr. Esther Blair who is doing civil­
ian relief work in France. The money 
for the child is collectod each month 
from the students and sent to France 
by Madame Ritz of the King Edward 
Apartments. The postmaster of the 
town where Marie Jeanne lives is re­
sponsible for the money and sees that 
It. is spent for the child’s .‘tiene fit. Ac­
cording to Miss Pliylis McMarlin, who 
has charge of tho War Orphan Fund, 
another orphan will be adopted as 
soon as tlie money can be obtained.
PRINTING STUDENTS 
VISIT CARNEGIEIMUSEUM
The members of the Department of 
Printing enjoyed the second of a series 
of gal'.ery trips througli the Carnegie 
Museum last Friday afternoon. Harry 
L. Gage, head of the Department, con­
ducted the trip and explained the vari­
ous. elements which make up a good 
picture and-showed us their applica­
tion in the paintings in the Fine Arts 
Department.
TARTAN STAFF
*!• There will be a meeting of ¦ 
The Tartain staff in the office at • 
5 p. m., Thursday. Since the - 
•I* board has now lost its Managing •
* Editor and his assistant, this is •
* an excellent time for any man to « 
<• start in the work. New men will -
* report together with the follow- «
* ing:
Levin
* F. f. Smith 
Hall
*:• Walcott
* Meinhold
*!• Bingham
<• Slssman
•I* Nicholson
SIGNOR SCALZO DIRECTS 
EIGHTH HOME CONCERT
Signor Scalzo was born in Taorini- 
na, Italy, in 1884. At the ago of nino 
he commenced the study of the man­
dolin under Profossor G. Verdura, of 
Ca'twnia. When "sixteen lie toured in 
concert through Argentina, Uruguay, 
and Brazil as mandolin soloist. Re­
turning to Europe in 1901, ho resum­
ed the study of music at the Leipzig 
Consorvatorium under such eminent 
teachers as Hans Becker, Arthur Nile- 
iseli, and Richard Hoffman, devoting 
much time to harmony, counterpoint, 
composition, and instrumentation.
In 1903, he organized tho Club Sll- 
vestir, composed of mandolins , and 
guitars, and attained remarkable suc­
cess' in Leipzig. After six "years of 
study in this noted city., lie made, for 
the second time, a successful concert 
tour in Brazil.
in tho spring of 1909, Signor Scalzo 
came to New York, and shortly after­
wards was engaged as violinist, with 
tho Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
under the direction of Emil, 1’aur. Dur­
ing tho summer of that year ho return­
ed to Europe for a Lon-weok’s tour as 
mandolin and violin soloist, Follow 
ing this tour, Signor Scalzo remained 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony Or­
chestra until If was disbanded In 1910, 
after which lie played with tho Pitts­
burgh Festival Orchestra.
At the opening of the school term 
In 1910, Signor Scalzo was invited to 
become tho Director of the Carnegie 
Musical Clubs. Through his efforts, 
the local clubs have be<?n placed 
among the best of the college organl* 
zatjons. For a time, Signor Scalzo 
had charge of both the Glee and Man­
dolin Clubs, but now each club has 
its own director. The Glee Club in 
now under the supervision of Mr. N. 
E. La Marcn.
INDUSTRIES HONOR ROLL 
IS BEING COMPILED
Both the Glee and Mandolin Clubs 
held important rehearsals last Sun­
day. The directors worked especially 
upon the fine points of the program. 
Every minute detail is being taken 
care of, and the concert to be given 
on March 21 will be one permeated 
with fineness of detail and as only 
Scalzo and La Marcn can produce.
The tickets are going fast consid­
ering that tlie concert is still two 
weeks ahead. This year every effort, 
is being made to get every man in 
school to come to the concert. The 
stub in the Student Handbook is good 
for twenty-five cents on the purchase 
of any ticket. The plebes are com­
ing in sections; each section trying 
I to outdo the other in the matter of 
I attendance. The prices of tickets 
range from $1.50 to fifty cents.
The next two weeks will be the 
busiest, ones for the clubs that have 
occurred yet this year. Tuesday even­
ing, March 12, the clubs give a con­
cert at the Taroiitum Y. M. C. A., and 
Friday night of the same week, the 
annual joint-concert with the P. C. W. 
Musical Clubs will bo given at; the 
Pennsylvania College for Women. 
Then on the Monday night following, 
another concert will be given in the 
Third United Presbyterian Church on 
Shady avenue. Following this concert 
the biggest and best of tho year— 
THIS HOME CONCERT—comes on 
Thursday evening, March 21.
In tho Home Concert this yoar tho 
Glee Club will again havo predomi­
nance. They havo something new In 
view, but will not divulge what it is.
(Continued on Pago Three.)
MAY FESTIVAL PLANNED, 
QUEEN TO BE CHOSEN
Tho May festival, which was aban­
doned last spring, is to be presented 
this year and Is being plnnnod In de­
tail by the M, M. C. S. physical train- 1 
Ing department. lOvery member of Lhe 
Athletic Association will have a 
chance to fake part in some way and 
a pleasing and attractive program Is 
near completion. Tho girls will pre­
sent classic and folk dances on a, nat­
ural stage. The committee has not 
yet. decided on the exact; location of 
the setting for the festival, but. of the 
many beautiful spots on the campus 
tho only difficulty will be in tho selec­
tion of one.
Tho Maypole dance will be the time­
ly feature, supported by the fairy 
dances and various folk dances, all 
done in nature costume. A meeting 
of lhe Athletic Association will bo 
held this week for tho purpose of choos­
ing the May Queen. In Hpito of In­
tensive schedules and war prices, the 
girls of M. M. C. S. expect to present 
tho people of Pittsburgh with a de­
lightful enterfWhment at a minimum- 
expenditure.
The work of compiling a complete 
roll of the men who have left the 
School of Applied Industries for ser­
vice in the different branches of the 
government is rapidly progressing. 
During the past week several hundred 
War Service Cards have been sent to 
the families and homes of the men 
who have left school and it is expect­
ed to have the majority of the replies 
in before long.
FACULTY ENTERTAINS 
GIRLS AT BREAKFAST
On Wednesday morning, February 
27, at 8 o’clock, the faculty of the Arts, 
and Grafts Department of the Mar 
garet Morrison College entertained 
the girls of their department at break­
fast. The tables were attractively 
decorated with yellow tulips. The yel­
low color scheme was carried through­
out the broakfasf, beginning with the 
grapefruit and continuing in tho com­
mon 1 mush, toasted muffins, honey, 
marmalade and coffee. At tho corner 
of each table was an electric toaster 
by means of which the faculty kept 
the girls woll supplied with warm 
muffins. After breakfast tho girls 
talked and sang until nlue-thlrty 
classes ended the party.
DAILY CHANGES OCCUR 
IN WARTIME COURSES
At the faculty meeting on Wednes­
day, February 27, Professor Calder- 
wood, who had previously been chair­
man of ail the war courses faculty, 
submitted his resignation. Professor 
Calderwood found it necesary to re­
sign because he is the head of both 
the Radio Buzzer and Radio Mechan­
ics' War Courses; and the care of those 
twrp departments employed the great­
er part of his time. Dean Mott was 
elected by the faculty to fill the posi­
tion vacated by Professor Calderwood.
Last week a committee from Wash­
ington visited Tech to ascertain the 
possibilities for a course In secondary 
training. If this course will be estab­
lished, if; will continue for about four 
weeks, and will consist eliiofly of man­
ual training and repair work. A sec­
tion of the secondary training course 
will probably also bo offered at the 
University of Pittsburgh.
The number ol; men in tho war 
courses at Tech is growing rapidly. 
Last week sixty more volunteers wore 
enrolled In. tho Radio Mechanics 
Course and sixty more in tho Plano 
Repair Course. War Courses are also 
being planned by the chemical and 
metallurgical departments.
TECH TEAMS TACKLE PITT FIVES FRIDAY

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, March 6, 1918
5fl|g Variait
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in the postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Editor-In-Chief..........
Business Manager
Phone Grant 888-R. 
Phone Schenley 220C-J
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editor
L. E. Emerich 
Night Editor 
Julius Foster 
Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joseph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
James Church 
Science Assistants 
Meinhold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
R. P. Avery
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Marguerite Haldeman 
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles H. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
H. W. Anderson 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
the student body. It would result in greater uniformity in the work 
of the student officers, and greater success irutheir dealings ivi'th the 
men. it is apparently badly needed.
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—2:00 to 4:00 Mondays.
4:80 to 5:00 Wednesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should De sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postofflee, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays.
OUR SUGGESTION TO THE COMMANDANT
Major Lyle in his orders as Commandant has several times an­
nounced that suggestions for improving the military system would 
always be welcomed from members of the student companies. The 
Tartan has this suggestion to offer. It seems almost self evident that 
there ought to be (at least once or perhaps twice a week) some sort 
of a conference between the Commandant and those who are at pres­
ent acting as student officers. At present there are almost as many 
methods—both in technical instruction and in the manner of dealing 
with the men—as there are officers; and while it may be true that 
all of these methods are correct, still that provides no consolation for 
the lack of one Tech standard, which we naturally want to be uniform 
and the best of all those possible.
Such a conference as we have suggested would enable Major Lyle 
to dclivdr his instructions directly to the men responsible. These 
men, who would probably be the captain, two lieutenants, and top ser­
geant of each company, could then' basily pass the orders along to the 
privates, and every man would be doing exactly the same thing in 
the same way. »Just at present that is not always the case. For ex­
ample we might cite the change in executing *‘ rif*ht shoulder, arms.7’ 
When the manual of arms Avas first taught, “right shoulder, arms” 
was changed from the method given in the regulations so that the 
ride was grasped instead of merely being touched with the fingers 
extended; later the method was changed back to the latter system. 
Tlie first change was understood by practically everyone because the 
corporals, assembled together in just the sort; of gathering which we 
are suggesting, were instructed in the method ot! executing it; but 
when tho change was made back to I lie regular system there was no 
sijich gathering of corporals and as a result there was nearly a week 
during which some privates followed one method and some the other. 
In just; the same way, there has been more or less of a mix-up over 
several other details which were varied from the U. S. regulations; 
e| g., the matter of falling in at “parade rest,” and of coming to 
“parade rest” before giving the command “rest” or “at ease.” We 
know ol! one student officer who follows the latter system because he 
was| instructed to do so by the Commandant, but he is the only one 
who does do it. All these things are, of course, only details, and no 
¦doubt they are so evident to’Major Lyle that he believes they arc 
equally obvious to t he student; officers, but it happens that that is not 
so. The oiiicers'are badly in need of greater uniformity in their inter­
pretation of the details of drill.
Not only in the drill but. in the attitude-which the officers dis­
play toward the men, there is great room for improvement. This 
is an Officers’ Training Corps, and we are «ill supposedly in training 
for officers' work. Besides the technical knowledge which that work 
requires, it demands to the highest degree the knowledge of how to 
deal with other men. Some of the present officers show conclusively 
that they do not possess that knowledge. If a captain talks his men 
to death needlessly,’he frays their patience to a ragged edge. If he 
is loqse in his commanding, the men will be loose in their obedience. 
If he holds his men overtime, he shows that he has absolutely—per­
haps deliberately—disregarded all sense of justice. The men have to 
report on time; why should they not. be dismissed on time? The 
rough and ready retort, “Wait till you’re in the trenches; then ten 
or fifteen minutes’ late won’t worry you,” is a mere matter of so 
many word's. When a man is in the army lie is under an officer from 
twenty-four hours to twenty-four hours, arid ten or fifteen minutes’ 
overtime of course makes no difference at all; but here when a man is 
under an officer for an hour and a half, and under his own authority 
for the rest oi! the day, then a few minutes’ tardiness may make all 
the difference in the woijld. It would certainly seem that promptness 
of dismissal on the part of the officers is just as great a virtue as 
promptness ol’ i’alling-in on the part of the men. The officers should 
learn to be just in all things as VOL.. as firm.
These things no doubt will seem petty and trivial to the Com­
mandant, but we believe that they are exactly analagous to t he things 
which an officer in the army runs up against with enlisted men. If a 
man cannot satisfactorily deal with his own eollegemates, how in the 
world is he ever going to expect anything of respect from the crowd 
of men of all sorts whom he will command in the army? It is not 
that there are no possibilities here at Tech, for we know of at least 
one case where a man was immensely unpopular with the company 
at the time he was made an officer, but has .since worked himself 
rapidly and apparently easily into their respect by treating them as 
an officer should (and that is not an example concocted to suit the 
occasion, either). There is no reason why every officer should not be 
in equal favor, and it is quite probable that every officer can be with 
the hints and examples he would receive in a joint officers’ conference.
That conference would bring the commanding officers closer to
A WORD FROM MR. EYMAN
Is the traditional spirit of “Tech” dying? Is that spirit being 
overcome by a feeling of unrest? We are, it is true, living in times 
which are not normal. The war with all its problems has its grip 
upon us. Our boys have answered and are daily answering to the 
Nation’s call. Each day brings to our notice the fact that some 
student enters this or that branch of service, and our daily program 
has taken on the military. Daily drill for registered students is now 
in full swing and the curriculum has been so altered as to give to 
enlisted men sent here by the Government intensified training along 
mechanical lines. There is a rumor that at no distant date the entire 
school may be commandeered by the Government. As a result each 
day brings an apparent change in the daily routine here at school. 
Shall we then wonder that students generally fail to grasp the situa­
tion keenly and allow themselves rather to drift than to drive. How­
ever, our object is one of encouragement rather than discouragement. 
WE WANT THE OLD “TECH” SPIRIT TO LIVE. Every student 
should so adjust himself to conditions that each dajr will bring victory 
instead of defeat. The athletics of the school have suffered as a re­
sult of this unsettled state of affairs. Many of: our good men have 
left, for service with our Country but there remain with us many, 
valuable men with much athletic ability. Men who if they would 
make but little sacrifice could easily fill the place left vacant on teams 
by those gone. A greater athletic opportunity to many will not 
again present itself. Through no avenue other than this will one find 
a better means of physical development. And now above every other 
time should there be a quickening within young men to possess the 
best; possible physical make-up—and now above every other time 
should we lend our energies to make athletics at “Tech” go. The 
basket ball season is about over but there remain two branches of 
sport which open the way for those who will enlist their services. 
Baseball and track will soon be in full swing. The track squad has 
been in training for some time—but the great immediate need is 
men. Every able bodied student should be a candidate for either the 
baseball or track team. Track affords everyone a chance to better 
equip himself physically. There is no better form of exercise insofar 
as such exercise furnishes a keen sense of competition. It is hoped 
this spring will see these sports having the largest squads in the 
history of the school. Everyone get under the athletic program at 
“¡Tech” and have athletics take on a new lease of life. Consider 
yourself a part; of that program for without an effort on the part of 
everyone the program is weakened. GET YOUR SHOULDER TO 
THE WHEEL. THIS IS A CRUCIAL TIME.
PLEDGE PINS
Last week the military committee notified the In ter fraternity 
Council that fraternity pledge pins may be worn on the uniforms 
above the left; pocket where the officers wear their service ribbon.
PLEBES ARE PLAYING 
WINNING CAGE GAME
Last Friday night in the preliminary 
to the Penn State game, the Plebes 
beat Schenley High by the score of
31-2(5. Thd contest was close through­
out and it was not until the last quar­
ter when ITamman and Leet entered 
the game that a sure victory was 
gained.
Riblett was back on the job agaip. 
this week, playing forward with 
“Shorty” Maurer. ’Lynn jumped cen­
ter and Good and Nichol were guards. 
Lynn played the fastest game of the 
evening, succeeding in caging seven 
field goals. In the last quarter, Ham- 
man substituted Lynn at center and 
Lynn took Maurer’s place at forward. 
Leet substituted for Nichol. During 
this period, Schenley High had a ratti­
er hard time of it. Haninian’s two 
field goals with Leet’s two foul goals 
pulled out a victory for the Plebes. I
Schenley High’s forwards, Sarraf ' 
and Mazer, played excellent games, i 
Johnson, their center, put up a, good i 
scrap against Lynn but did not guard 
him very well. Elias and Meyers who 
held down the guard positions both I 
played the game with skill.
The lineup was as follows:
Plebes—31. Schenley High—26.
Riblett......................F............................. Sarraf
Maurer.....................F.......................... Mazer |
Lynn.........................C.................... Johnson j
Good..........................G................................ Elias
Nichol......................G........................ Meyers
Substitutes — Lynn for Maurer, 
Hamman for Lynn, Leet for Nichol. 
Field Goals—Riblett, 1; Maurer, 2; 
Lynn, 7; Good, 1; Hamman, 2; Sarraf, 
3; Mazer, .; Johnson, 2; Elias, 1; 
Meyers, 1. Foul Goals—Nichol, 3 out 
of 7; Leet, 2 out of 5; Mazer, 0 out 
of 3; Johnson, 4 out of 10. Referee— 
Daugherty, W. & J.
P. AND D. STUDENTS WIN 
ALL PRIZES IN CONTEST
Students from the P. and D. depart­
ment, Design School, won all the prizes 
in a recent Poster Competitipn under 
the auspices of the Smoke and Dust 
Abatement League of Pittsburgh. The 
competition was open to all artists 
and art students of Allegheny county. 
Seventy-two posters were contributed, 
many from professional men. Those 
winning prizes were:
First Prize — Lawrence Kritcher, 
$50.00.
Second Prize — Lloyd Wenninger, 
520.00.
Third Prize —- Brady McSwigan, 
$5.00; Harry Cohen, $5.00.
Fourth Prize—Arthur Lukens, $2.50; 
Mildred Floyd, $2.50; Joseph Punzak, 
$2.50; James Stuart, $2.50.
Fifth Prize, $1.00 each—Joseph Wil­
liams, F. G. Ackerson, Winifred 
Cramp, John Dunbar, Hilda Ivijo. Helen 
Barkhurst, A. L. Dudak, A. M. Ander­
son, Erma Coleman, Jeannette Shirk.
FURTHER DETAILS.OF 
NAVAL RESERVE FORCE
The following 'lecter ’was received 
from Lieutenant Commander F. R. 
Payne, Senior Enrolling Officer of the 
United States-Navy:
1. The Navy Department, in order 
to insure a reserve supply of future 
engineering men for the Navy, de­
sires to enroll as many as possible 
undergraduates of technical universi­
ties, in the Naval Reserve Force, and 
Jias authorized the enrollment in the 
Naval Reserve Class 4, for general 
service as Seaman Second Class, any 
undergraduate of your institution be­
tween the ages of IS and 21, who is 
actually taking a technical course and 
who may be physically qualified.
2. Those enrolled will not be call­
ed to active duty until they have grad­
uated or should sever their connection 
with the University, except in case of 
an extraordinary emergency.
3. Xo promise of commission will 
be given to these undergraduates, and 
when graduated and called into active 
service, they will be examined and re- 
rated in-accordance with their ability 
and the then requirements of the ser- 
A'ice.
4. These enrollments when made, 
only obligate those enrolled to serve 
during the period of the war, and as 
indicated above, are made with the 
object in view of having a qualified 
reserve to draw on for such commis­
sioned and other, engineering person­
nel as the service may need.
5. You will greatly assist your 
country in this, its time of need, if 
you will bring this to the students in 
all your engineering courses, and fur­
nish those who desire to enroll with 
the necessary credentials to establish 
the fact that they are undergraduates 
in your technical department, upon 
the presentation of which they will be 
physically examined, and if qualified, 
enrolled at the United States Naval 
Home, Enroling Office, 24th street and, 
Gray's Perry Road, Philadelphia, Pa., 
any day between 9 a, m. and 5 p. m., 
except Sundays and legal holidays. .
SUNDAYEVENINGCONCERT 
GIVEN IN MUSIC HALL
CHURCHES
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAI 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
The Department of Music, School I 
of Applied Design, J. Vick O’Brien, di- j 
rector, gave its first Symphony con-1 
cert of the season, in Carnegie Music i 
Hall on Sunday evening, March 3, be-j 
fore a large and discriminating audi­
ence. The programme was just a 
trifle long and those who left early 
lost some of the best numbers on the 
programme.
The opening number was Beeth­
oven’s “Fifth Symphony.” an ambi­
tious venture for a student orchestra, 
demonstrating, immediately the 
strength and the weakness of the or­
ganization.
It was at its best in the two last 
movements, being surer in attack and 
giving closer atention to nuance. The 
body of tone was full and the general 
ensemble satisfactory.
All orchestras rise, or fall through 
the “brass choir” and this section sel­
dom rises to its opportunity. The at­
tack is either a blatant announcement 
of its presence, or a timorous feeling 
for pitch which- finds its goal, about 
the time for its voice to drop out. As 
some very fine passages- are entrusted 
to this section of the orchestra, it is 
unfortunate that it does not rise to 
the occasion.
“Devotion,” from Popper’s ’cello 
suite "In the Forest,” op. 50, plaj'ed 
by Miss Jean Wessener, proved one 
of the very enjoyable numbers on the 
programme. Miss Wessener evinces 
an artistic understanding of her in­
strument and her work; always inter­
esting, brought, her several recalls. 
The orchestra afforded a. properly sub­
dued back-ground for the solo instru­
ment.
One of the most finished perform­
ances was the “Piano Concerto in G 
Minor,” Saint Saens, Miss Isabel 
Palmer. She Avas at her best in the 
second and third movements, the first, 
being beyond her strength. Her at­
tack was sure and her technique bril­
liant. The orchestra gave her. the: 
requisite support. Hearty applause 
followed this number.
The second half of the programme 
opened with Tchaikowsky’s lovely 
“Elegie” and “Valse” from the “Ser­
enade,” in C major, op. 4S, for string 
ensemble, under the directiim of Mr. 
Karl A. Malcherek. This group of 
players sustained the enviable reputa­
tion they, have won for themselves 
through careful attention to detail. 
The ensemble was excellent, the tone 
pure, the attack certain and the shad­
ing artistic to a degree. This number 
was most cordially received.
Another very interesting number 
| was the first movement of Lalo’s, 
j “Symphonic Espagnole,” for violin and 
orchestra, op. 21, by Mr. Paul Sladek. 
He played with his usual artistic feel­
ing and delighted his audience.
The programme closed with the 
“Overture to Mignon,” Thomas. The 
orchestra gave a. very satisfactory 
reading or this interesting score,' 
which. was most cordially received.
Considering the difficulty of rehears­
ing sixty-five players “ensemble,” in 
these days of war exegencies, and the 
continual changing personnel of the 
student body, the results obtained are 
rather better than might be expected. 
The next concert is anticipated with 
pleasure.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
. Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M.
Pew 5S Middle Aisle for Tech Stu­
dents.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS,
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45- P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
THISTLE SALESMEN
Thistle salesmen report 
Friday at the Post Office.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN fc 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and BellefieId.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN gj 
M. A. (Glasgow) §0;
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. ^
Bible School 9:45. |r
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help g 
jl| the students. For conference ll! 
[i ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and’ 
5:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
MAKE SHADYSIDE PRESBYTE-
• RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME 
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Men’s Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning. Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR. D. D., Minister.
¦“ RODEF SHALOM TEMPLE j§ 
4905 FIFTH AVENUE [|j
Near Mo rewood v
Saturday Services—10:30 A. M. j|f 
Sunday Lectures—10:30 A. M.
Visiting Rabbis from the lead­
ing congregations of the country 
will.occupy the pulpit this win­
ter. A different Rabbi each 
week.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES 
Sunday School—9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship—11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
TEA WILL BE GIVEN 
BY M. M. C. S. FACULTY
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY 
ALL WEEK
MÄRY tóacLANE
Invitations have been issued by the 
| Margaret Morrison faculty for a tea 
j to be given in the college Recreation 
Room from four to six o’clock on 
March S. The faculty and office staff 
trom all four schools have been invit- 
j ed to come and bring with them their 
husbands, wives, or friends to enjoy 
a general good time with cards and 
dancing. This will be an opportunity 
for the faculty members to become 
better acquainted and help bring the 
four schools in closer touch with each 
other.
LECTURE SUBSTITUTED 
FORJVIL SEMINAR
Mr. F. A. Freitag spoke to the Civil 
Engineering students of Science at 
their Seminar last. Thursday morning. 
His subject Avas “Hydrated Lime,” and 
his lecture, which was very interest­
ing and instructive, concerned chief­
ly the uses of hydrated lime and its 
advantages in all forms of concrete 
construction. The talk was illustrat­
ed with slides, and proved to be quite 
an agreeable substitution for the 
Seminar.
THE 191S Thistle •>
v SEE THE MAN WITH THE TAG I*
* March 4 March 15 *
THE 191S THISTLE 
KICK IN!!
MARCH 4 MARCH 15
TECH MEN SUBMIT BEST 
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNS
Mr. W. J. Richards of the Architec­
tural Department, Design school, won 
the special architectural prize offered 
this year to take the place of the 
Paris prize, in a recent class A plan 
project, “An Art Museum.” The first 
prize consisted of a set of architectur­
al books valued at $200. The second 
prize medal was won by Mr. Ii. S. 
Watterson of the same department.
The competition was open to stu­
dents of all large architectural schools 
in the country and about seventy-five 
sets of drawings were submitted. Cor­
nell took second place and Columbia 
third.
Tt speaks vc’umes for our men that 
’ *’*st in such a large field.
"MEN WHO HAVE MADE LOVE 
TO ME”
The fascinating author is a magnetic 
screen star.
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
ZWedGA nsa nSyWWa ASA,
Mrch61 N98miN9N Atr6hg6o 
AMGpCnL MeCpGA SW SGpI 
ASvaGsSA
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac- 
tory Rebuilt Ma­
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
| l2MSJSM3MS/i2i3M3M2/3M3MSiSJSMSMSJ2l 
-3 siGET YOUR HAIR CUT. 1
H ----------at the----------a 
1
Nearest to Tech 
! I COR. CRAIG AND FORBES! a|3 FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
! a
TECH BARBER SHOP

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 6, 1918THE TARTANPagi Threo'
1 DO YOU DANCE? 1& riAMoiM/*' i rpcnMC mACCfiMnDDix/ATP Qi
i £
:
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon- 
^ day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
k CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE _
~,Fr. 'fRrar^raiSMSiSMPrar3faraM0M3MSMSl§
ifi ciMSj SÍ3XIN21C & iii ¡3 AREGSTUFC HUTXYPBXiHI
'H";! CITY ELECTRIC CO. I
43S Seventh Ave. 1 
All Kinds of BATTERIES | 
Repaired and Recharged §
ßcjjoy^ßjeji^ßjiüiiijfciJGijiiiJDiJirji____iiídc¡jiiüiiijthji^üiJiiji=jüLiSJ3JSMSMSMi3Jí?í3JQLíSrS2í3M3M3/SM2M
MANY CO-OPERATING IN WIVES OF FACULTY ARE ENTERTAINMENT PLANS ASKED FOR AID BY UNIT HAKDHiiHrAMiNST ,MVMH
HELP ALONG
When you have read your Tartan, leave it at the Post Office, 
properly wrapped and addressed to your high school, or to a pros­
pective Techite. It will be mailed free of charge by. The Tartan.
DO THIS AND HELP TO SERVE TECH
The soldiers detailed to the 'Carne­
gie Institute o£ Technology for special 
training in tlieir respective branches [ 
of the service are to be well provided 
for as to the matter of entertainment. 
A committee for this purpose com­
posed of Dean Bossange, of the School 
of Applied Design, as chairman, and 
assisted by Prof. C. G. Dunnelles, of 
the School of Applied Industries, P. C.! 
Benner and C. E. Dickson.
A large number of invitations have 
been received by the committee from 
the residents of Pittsburgh who wish 
to entertain the enlisted men in their 
homes at dinner on Sunday afternoons. 
At present the work of entertaining 
these men on Sundays will be under 
the direction of C. F. Dickson, and the 
various churches in this section. Per­
sons who desire to participate in this 
service should communicate with their 
respective churches and the men will 
be assigned.
Prof. Dunnelles has charge of the 
work in connection with the conduct­
ing of the Union, which has been open 
to all soldiers by the action of the Stu­
dent Activities Board, and they should 
feel free to use it at their leisure. 
Plans are being made to supply more 
games, music, and in all probability a 
Victrola will be secured.
Jj\ C. Benner is in charge of the Sat­
urday evening entertainment and ex­
pects to show in the Theater of the 
School of Applied Design several films 
on the recent revolution in Russia. 
The exact date will be announmed 
later. Watch for it. H. A. McCon- 
naughey who has recently returned 
from Russia, will speak at the sahie 
time and on the events which have oc­
curred there.
Mr. McConnaughey is going to take 
up the work with the soldiers here 
and will be at the Union every noon 
and Saturday afternoons and Sundays. 
He is a former Y. M. C. A. secretary.
He spent the period from May, 1!)1(5, 
to November, 1917, in Russia, and part 
of that time was devoted to the relief 
ol> prisoners of war in the great re­
gion of the Volga river and the Ural 
Mountains and the border of Siberia.
The Tech Y. M. C. A. is making 
plans to hold a series of meetings for 
the students and enlisted men on OhG 
mornings of the week preceeding Eas­
ter. More details will be announced 
later.
The following circular letter was 
sent to the ladies associated with the 
Faculty of the Institute by the Car­
negie Tech American Red Cross unit:
Will You Help C. I. T. Do Its Bit?
An American Red Cross Unit, has 
been organized at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. The auxiliary is as 
follows:
Chairman—Mrs. A. A. Hamersehlag.
First Vice Chairman—Mrs. Janies I. 
Johnston.
(Continued From Page One.) 
College, held the guard position with 
Wilson. Blakeslee jumped center and 
Multan and Young were at forward. 
The chief feature of their success, to” 
Penn State is vet to be. beaten 
this season, lies in their absolute cool­
ness. Although beaten in the first half, 
upon their return to,the floor they re­
mained as cool as could be and played 
basketball to the best of their ability. 
Perhaps it was over-confidence which 
prevented them from winning the
Second \ ice Chairman Miss Anne | game from the very start, but more 
McCandless, M. M. C. S. ¡ uuely it. was the characteristic, spirit
1 i of determination our t eam has when-Third Vice Chairman—Miss Ellen 
Crowe, Design School. >i ever it tackles an unbeaten team. The
Secretary and Treasurer Miss Ber- excellent team work of the newly
form-fit
COLLAR
nice Kruger, M. M. C. S.
Purchasing Agent—Miss Betty Cam­
eron, Design School.
The work room in which surgical 
dressings are to be made is located in 
the School of Design Building, and will 
be open daily from 11:30 a. in. to 2 
p. m. The hospital supplies are to be 
made at the M. M. C. S. Thursday 
evenings have been designated for 
concentrated work in Room 210 from 
7:00 to S:30 o’clock.
The unit was organized by the girls 
of both schools to enable them to con 
tribute their bit to the great work un­
dertaken by the A. R. C.
For unity of interest, and that the 
work may progress more satisfactor
formed five is qlso a big factor.
It was impossible for our five to 
beat a team which played as Slate 
did during the second period. They 
simply dropped goals in from all over 
j the'field. The accuracy with which 
Blakeslee and Young shot field goals 
was absolutely remarkable. They 
drew more than' a few cheers from the 
audience for this reason. Young 
caged six field goals; Blakeslee, five; 
Mullan, three, and Wilson, one, dur­
ing the period.
Not a field go::l was. made by Tech 
during the second period, and only 
once during the period, and then only 
for a, short time, did the team play 
anywhere near the same ball demon-
llülpllü illlllllllillMlllillilllllllllllllllllfllllllllilllllillNllltillM^
MelBoimNationalBank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. 
§ 409-413 Fifth Ave.
406-410 Oliver Ave. 
Capital------- $6,000,000
ily, they cordially invite the members j stratQ(j during the. first period. Mam
pfDJSMSMSMMSMSMSMSMSMSMcMaSMaMMSMSMSMSMSMMSMSMSMSMSMSMSJ
McDOUG-ALL’S DANCING CLASSES
^ SHADY AND PENN—DANCES IVJONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY 1 
4616 FORBES STREET—FRIDAY EVENINGS " 1}
Private Lessons and Beginners’ Classes every day and evening. s 
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra Dr?
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
“THE OAKLAND BANK"
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
* The 1918 Thistle *
“SMARTLY MEN! SMARTLY!!” * 
*:• FALL IN FOR YOUR THISTLE * 
v March 4 March 15 •>
I^IIllllEDliDUIUlilUIIIUlllUlUDlllillllllillllllllllllllllllilCllUllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli
THE 
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER 
FOR THE 
STUDENT
""
CoroNA
! The Personal Writing Machine 
1 So simple in construction 
jj • and operation that any- 
M one can use it without 
j§ previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Pnce $50
I Call 343 Court or Write
| Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE B FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
ïïllllil 1111IIIIIIIIIIWI—III—III IHIII llilllllll*
TRANSITS AND LEVELS
V66 T9886nH, eof MGH
DRAFTING ROOM
ALPHA TAU SCHOLARSHIP 
AWARD IS ANNOUNCED
A special Assembly of the students 
of the School of Applied Industries 
was held last Friday afternoon. At 
this time it was announced that plans 
are being made for again holding the 
weekly assemblies. The most impor­
tant feature of the asembly was the 
awarding of the Alpha Tau scholarship 
by Dean Connelley. The scholarship 
of $50 was awarded to H. A. Living­
ston, of the Middle Class and. Avho is 
taking the course in General Equip­
ment and Installation.
This is the first scholarship to fie 
giveii by the Fraternity and they plan 
to make it an,annual presentation to 
the member of the Middle ClaHs who 
lias the best scholarship standing. It 
is to be awarded on scholarship only 
and in accordance with the following 
conditions:
(a) The recipient of the scholarship 
shall be a student of the Middle Year
of and those associated with the facul­
ty to co-operate with them. Instruc­
tors and assistants are needed, and we 
hope to secure them from the faculty 
group. If you are in a position to as­
sist, will you not do so?
Kindly answer the enclosed ques­
tionnaire as soon as possible, and mail 
it to the Chairman at C. I. T.
Sincerely yours, 
ELIZABETH A. HAMERSCHLAG, 
Chairman.
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
tñiinwiiiiiiiiíiiiinniiimiiiiiíiiiiinniiniiuiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiniuiiniiiiiiiiiiiiinnimgE
STUDENT COUNCIL 
MET FEBRUARY 26
The Student Council, at its last; 
meeting, February 2(1, was largely con­
cerned with the consideration of sev­
eral problems brought up by military 
training.
A committee of the council, which 
had conferred with Major Lyle about 
the punishment of delinquents, made 
its report. It, has been decided that 
punishments will be- manual labor in 
the form of cleaning up the campus.
Some time ago It; was announced 
that upperclassmen should wear two 
black )>ands on their sleevos, but the 
distance between the two bands was 
not stated. Tlje council ruled that 
these hands shall bo one-half inch 
apart.
There was a discussion as to wheth­
er or not the Union should be given 
up to the exclusive use of soldiers. 
The council decided l;liat the students 
and soldiers are to use it equally. The 
soldiers are to consider themselves 
especially Invited to use the Union at 
all times, especially on Saturday 
nights. However, the students are at 
no time to be excluded from the 
Union.
Owing to the fact that Science and 
Industry schools are to close so early 
nominations for president of the Stu­
dent Council must be made before 
March 15. The president will he elect­
ed at the first meeting of the council 
in April.
man wrenched his shoulder early 
the half so that the combination of 
the first half was ruined. "Pat” Mohan 
substituted for him. Later in the 
period, Wire was substituted for Cos- 
groVe. The only tally nude by Tech 
during the period consisted of six
points made from six successful at­
tempts out of nine for foul goals by 
Doherty.
The lineup was as follows:
State—5-1. Tech—30. !
Mullen.....................F..................... Hamm nil
Young.......................F...................... Doherty
Blakeslee.'..............C...................... Gretzler
Wilson ......................G........................... Leet
Fast............................G.................... Cosgrove
Substitutions—Holmn for Hauiman, 
Wire for Cosgrove. Field Goals— 
Haniman 4. Doherty 4, Gretzler .1, Mul­
len 7, Young 7. Blakeslee 7, Wilson 2. 
Foul Goals—Doherty, 12 out of 10: 
Blakeslee, 8 out of 11. Time of halves [| 
—20 minutes. Referee--Daughertj
W. & J.
ii!M2MM0Sfi5iSMSMSJSMSiDlinifc![iiMfD!ISnnJSI2l 
I WEBER EXPRESS AND 
^ STORAGE COMPANY
Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
rpl Moving, Packing and Storing ^ 
Gen* gof Furniture and Pianos, 
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
iaBell Phone 3465 Grant-
J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA
“THE KING’S THRESHO.D”
PRESENTED BY PLEBES
, , , , , The timé .of meeting luis beenwho has been in attendance and han I, d Tue8aay night to Thurs- 
completed the avoiíc of three.semesters ! 11¡Kilí
of any regular course.-
(b) The scholarship shall be grant­
ed each year after the close of the \
Mr. R. M. Marlier, president of the 
I Design Senate has resigned from the
firstcouncil, : as1 he has been called into 
service. Mr. W. J. Richards will take 
, . __ , i his place as president of the Design(';» No grade of F shall be standing Senatc „ moniboI. of counc„
First- Semester and within the 
month of the Second Semester.
against the recipient at the close of 
the First Semester of the Middle Year
Engineers' Equipment, Instru­
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREETB.
FOUR CHAIRS NO WAITING Ej 
HAIR CUTTING A SPECIALTY ¡j
J. M. F. Moeller |
SHAVING PARLOR [fc
3721 FORBES STREET J
PITTSBURGH, PA. |
Oakland. gj
A good place to get a good meal.
Meet your friends here on ll] 
Sunday evening.
F'RED SUDDEBY, Proprietor, jjjj 
CRAIG AND FORBES
The 1918 Thistle says “If you • 
¦ have ordered your Thistle, order • 
- another one!! Your soldier boy • 
• will enjoy it too.”
COURSE OF LECTURES 
ON “WAVES” COMPLETED
BASEBALL SCHEDULE
ROUNDING INTO SHAPE
The lecture course on "Waves,” giv­
en to the students in Radio and Buz­
zer Operation by Professor Hower of 
the Science school, was completed last 
Friday night. The course was receiv­
ed by the students in a manner very 
encouraging and pleasing to Professor 
Hower, and the men expressed their 
most enthusiastic appreciation when 
the .last lecture was completed.
A second series of lectures will be 
given by Prof. Hower. the first of 
which will be delivered a week from 
next Friday.
(Continued from page 1)
I of a string of other good players. We 
! have two good pitchers, Hird and Os­
borne and two catchers, Cell fus and 
Shumway, to rely upon. Cosgrove, 
who is as efficient in the infield as in 
the outfield is sure to be a member of 
our nine again this year.
Practice starts a week from Mon­
day, March IS. All men who have any 
baseball- experience at all should re­
port to the gym that day, and, if pos­
sible, shaft Id let Coach McCollough 
know before then or their intentions.
DR. DAVISSON GRANTED 
EXTENSION OF LEAVE
Dr. Davisson, who was granted a 
leave of absence last year from his 
duties as assistant professor of Phys­
ics in the Science school, to perform 
work of a military nature for the 
Western Electric Co.. has asked an ex- 
tention of his leave to cover the period 
of the war. This extension will be 
granted. It is highly probable that 
Dr. Grondahl, of the'same department, 
who is commissioned in the Ordnance 
Department, will also be granted a 
similar extension.
Captain McIntosh, who was connect­
ed with the Metallurgical Engineering 
Department of the Science School*for 
twelve years before he entered the 
Ordnance branch of the national ser­
vice, was a welcome visitor to the in­
stitute last week,.
(Continued From Page One.) 
urprlslng originality both as to "make­
up," and the reading of his lines. It 
was unquestionably funny, but one fel« 
it to be just a trifle "out. of drawing”, 
in the picture.
Miss Minott.e Buddeclte’s "Princess” j 
had the charm of dignity and poise. 
Her lines were read with an apprecia­
tion of dramatic value.
The Misses Carolyn Merlng and 
Georgette Schultz as "Two Court. 
Ladies,” gave a good account of them­
selves In their very brief roles.
Miss Harriet Klainroth as Sean- 
chan’s oldest, pupil, made a very fav­
orable Impression.' She. has a voice 
of very agreeable timbre which she 
uses with ease.
Miss Esther Cress as "the Youngest 
Pupil,” made the most of a small op­
portunity. Her diction was good and 
the quality of her voice rich.
Mr. Howard McOlenanhan played a 
strong role as the "Soldier,’’ who 
neither understands nor.' appreciates 
the follies of poets.
Mr. N. La, Marca’s "Lord Chamber­
lain” was a direct and- sincere inter­
pretation of a nqt very interesting 
character.
The Misses Grey McCauley and 
Martha Klieves, as first »and second 
cripples were "fearfully and wonder­
fully”—"made-ui).” Mr. Tostine and 
Mr. Mullen as "Bryan” and the 
"Monk” completed the cast.
CLUB PRESENTS PROGRAM 
THREE TIMES IN PREPARATION
PENCILS
Thcso fliunnmjs per»- 
eiltt «re 18ii<* Bttirtdard 
]l»y wiiM'l) «D1 other 
«re judged.
37 him:1: defines 
0 B soj'ltsl lo 9 II harder t
and hard and tm diuni copying 
Look for the V7L7V IJin ish I
i oiioIoho fi» in rliimpf.1 mul poring,c.
American. Lead Ferne«]! Co») 
Z17 Fifi.li Aven nthb Xb sb
Ilrpt. W 27 ,|,
IttlS ciJ tü/ííS^iíi cüJcii y ^ ^ ini ici iiü üíj
1 C. Stauft
i 3702 FORBES STREET 
1 PITTSBURGH, PA.
STATIONER AND 
NEWSDEALER 
Ip Phone 9076 Schenley.
ff3r@f3J2J3j2í2fi3J^ÍSÍ0íSfinMSÍi3íSíii!í3/SfS/SíS/3|3J£l
TECH TEAMS TACKLE
PITT FIVES FRIDAY
(Continued from page 1)
The Plebes will meet the Pitt Fresh­
men in the preliminary Friday night. 
They are’in fine shape and going fast­
er every day. The probable lineup to 
start will be:
Pitt Freshmen. Tech Plebes.
Kelley.......................F......................... Rihlett.
Rose...........................F......................... Maurer
Mosley......................C........................... Lynn
Breraan....................G.......................... Good
Mervis......................G......................... Nlchol
ENTERTAINMENT GIVEN 
BY TECH SOUTHERN CLUB
(Continued From Page One.)
All they want, they say, is a chance 
to show it the night of the twenty-first. 
It will be remembered that last year 
the second part of the program was 
taken up by the Miniature Minstrel 
Show.
Signor Scalzo has been asked by the 
Executive Committee at the request 
of several outsiders, to play a solo 
j at the Home Concert. This alone 
would be worth coming to hear, as' 
anyone who has never heard Mr. 
Scalzo play, has something coming to 
him.
Also an opportunity will be given 
for the first time to the students to 
hear Mr. La Marca sing. Mr. La Marca 
has a rich high tenor voice which 
has delighted the audiences at the 
concerts that, have already been given.
The question has been- raised af} to 
whether a person can come to the con­
cert in his uniform. Of course he can. 
The only people In evening dress will 
he those who are going to the formal 
dance at the Schenley after the con­
cert,
The person who misses the concert 
on the twenty-first will regret It, Av 
COME!
The Southern Club entertained with 
a dance last Saturday night. Southern 
hospitality was very much in evidence 
and the affair was a success in every 
way.
Bellefield 5hce|I
Repairing
FORBES STREET 
Opposite. Carnegie ;L'fb'rary.
[¡3 High'class work done .While you g wait.- "
H LOW PRICE6 TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Ej Give us a. trial.
JSMSMSMMSMSMMSMMMSMSiSrclfiilfiiiliL'inilii
C. I. T. S. A. 
March 4
CHEMISTS CLUB 11 HEAR 
TALK BY D, D. STM,16
The Tech Chemists* Club will ‘.bo 
addressed by Mr. David D. Stark jon 
“The Manufacture of Corn Starch,” 
Thursday evening, March 7, in Ro^m 
201), Science School, at 8 p. m., Jyir. 
Stark Is a graduate in Chemical En­
gineering of Tech and is at present 
doing special work, for the British 
Government. Ho has been employed' 
by the American .Corn P/odiu^o uo., 
and is at present on leave of absence 
from that concern which is permuting 
him to assume this War work for tj'ho 
time. This will give the Tech under­
graduates an opportunity to learn 
•’« * •:* * ?:* * * I aomethlng of what they will encounter
*•' after graduation,. •
The lfl'18 Thistle * The lecture Is to be preceded by ¡an
F, GOOD FOR 25c vj important business meeting including
March 1the election of officers for the semes­
ter. All interested persons are invit­
ed to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

frkge FourTHE TARTANWednesday, March 6, 1918
CENTS
These Records are not only fine selections, but have a large sale.
If you have old records bring them in 
ship them to the boys in the camps.—W. 
erick Piano Company.
W. F. FREDERICK PIANO CO
635 Smithfield Street
“Instant Record Service” First Floor at the Door.
Hear SCHUMAN-HElNK Sing “Just Before the Battle, Mother.
STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 
New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at 
Bargain Prices.
ORCHESTRA AND TENOR DRUMS 
Two genuine Calf Skin Heads, 15 inches in diameter, 9 thumb 
screw rods, solid maple shell and best grade of snares. ¿4A ft A 
Value $21, special for this week, each.............................................Zp IbiUU
GILBERT SUTTON WRITES 
IMPRESSIONS OF FRANCE
Members of the Southern.ClUb have 
received an extremely .interesting let­
ter from Gilbert Sutton, a member of 
the club who 1x now in E Company, 
Fifteenth Engineers, “somewhere in 
France.” Mr. Sutton Is a graduate 
architect' of Carnegie Tech and is a 
former draftsman of the Crucible 
Steel Company. Together with the 
letter, Mr. Sutton sent a. set of very 
humorous cartoons reflecting his im­
pression as an American youth plung­
ed into the midst of a strange people 
and making the most of the situation. 
These drawings were reproduced in a 
recent issue of a Pittsburgh news­
paper.
In his letter Sutton says:
"This is just a letter to inform those 
who are interested that T am still liv­
ing, that I am in good health, and that 
I haven’t killed enough Germans to 
cause the lcaiser to place a bounty on 
my head as yet. In fact I almost have 
to hide my head in shame when one 
asks me if I am one of the stalwart 
.sons of Mars. Would you believe it I 
have been in France for six months 
now and even haven’t heard a fire­
cracker yet. In fact I don’t even pos­
sess a rifie, for my weapon in this 
great war of democracy for the past j 
three months has been a ruling pen. 
Very formidable, eh?”
Well, I guess I have told you about 
my stay in Paris. It is one part of 
nty stay in France that will linger 
long in my memory, for I had a real 
good time up there. In some respects 
Paris resembles Pittsburgh. About 7 
a. m. every morning I would arise 
from my couch in the steam healed 
apartment . house where we were 
housed. In a hurried and dignified 
manner I would rush over to the near­
by hotel whose roof sheltered head­
quarters. Here I would partake of a 
sumptuous repast consisting usually 
of “slum,” that famous army concoc­
tion. Then I would go down .to the 
oilice, and take up my duties of push­
ing said pen.
“Eventually I got so I could grope 
my way around in one of those cling­
ing, gloomy fogs, so characteristic of 
Paris, in the most approved Parisian 
fashion. I could cross the Rue de la 
Paix unscathed during rush hour, even 
if I did have to stand one of those 
unique single-lunged taxis on end oc­
casionally. I even got so I could shoul­
der my way through a. ‘Metro’ jam, 
tramping on a. few women and chil­
dren en route, in a most delightfully 
French fashion. There are many 
things in Paris which people with 
more money than brains cross the 
pond every year to see, but which to 
us become only a landmark or a ren­
dezvous to meet some petite madam- 
oiselle.
“While in Paris, I. of course, took 
in several of the many as|v318 there, 
some of which were good. The Fol­
lies, a place most frequented by Amer­
ican soldiers, usually has about the 
best show. II is on the order of the 
Follies at home only the scenic effects 
ore not played up as strong and the 
music is inferior, but the chorus and 
costumes are certainly lhere. Most. 
Ilieiujffles over here have a .‘pominor' 
attached. This 1« a large room, dec­
orated with palms, etc., in the most 
approved fashion, and with- tables 
crowded as close as possible. During 
the '(Mi I met e’ everyone leaves the 
show to go out. here and buy a. beer 
and give everyone else the 'once-over.' 
while the orchestra softly murmurs 
some ParlSlou waltz, behind a. cluster 
of palms.
“There are always several American 
acts playing at some of the, houses in 
Paris and strange to say they are 
usually the most popular. Gaby Deslys 
played at the Casino here and she had 
an American jazz band, and ¿Paris 
went wild over it.
“No trip to Paris would be complete 
without a night at the opera. I heard 
‘Itigoletto’ there. Of course the stars 
are .some of the best in the world, but 
that opera house itself is almost worth 
a. trip across to see. From the outside 
il is a very imposing edifice, but. in­
side is far beyond description, and sur­
passes anything I have seen, unless 
it is Versailles.
“Some of the engineers have been 
mixing it up around Cambrai, as you 
have doubtless read. but. none of them 
were from the Fifteenth.
“In the trenches the winters over 
here must be anything but Enjoyable, 
but taking it from a. civilian viewpoint 
the weather lias been very mild. We 
read in the papers of the food short­
age, coal famines, and transportation 
tieups, to say nothing of the freezing 
weather, and we thank our lucky 
stars that we are in ‘Sunny France;’ 
for about the coldest weather I have 
seen has been about seven degrees, 
and ihese Frenchmen call if ‘tres 
frold.’ ”
FINAL THISTLE DRIVE
This means that your last oppor­
tunity to get that Thistle receipt, is 
here, but will not be hero much longer. 
Think seriously about this matter. 
Act now! A one dollar bill cannot be 
placed more wisely than as a Thistle 
deposit.
Send a Thistle “over there.” Send 
Thistles to your friends here. It’s a 
dyed-in-the-wool hood for dyed-in-tlie- 
wool ¦ Tccliites. Come, show your 
spirit, by making that dollar deposit. 
Don't, let this week pass by without 
first obtaining one or more receipts for 
the 1918 Thistle. By all means, don’t 
( procrastinate.
GALLINGER’S
929 LIBERTY AVENUE Established 1854
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Men’s Dept.
.............................................................mi.................................................
‘¦A National Institution::
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 1 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
lll!lllllllllllllllilllllllllllllll!llllll!tlllllllllllllllllllllll!lllll!lllllll!l!lllllllllllll!l!lll!llllllllllllll!!lllllllllll[lllll!l!lllllllllll|:illl:ill|l||||i|||!|||!|l|i:in!llll!!lllllll|[!lll!lllllllll|[!lllllll!:i!l!il||l!|||l|||||!ii
| MURDOCH. KERR & COMPANY |
i Incorporated |aj
I'll Makers o? CATALOGUES, MAGAZINES, NEWSPAPERS and BOOKS if
¦ ALL KINDS OF MERCANTILE PRINTING
rl Telephone 1052 Grant STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY WAYS rf]P [p)li.'lliiUiniiilfflcMJinJiDJSlJeiM
MRS. HAMERSCLAG TALKS T(l RED CROSS UNIT A A.6tlfg scBlt6 Sc ABTE6hB1W. Mj LAIRD CO.
622 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH
Largest Shoe House
iMa ­klvkkr rkv gduy mrw c5.cm4d
' DJHeadquarters for the regulation “Munson" La3t Army Shoes.rjjîjj CVIR. W. C. SEABRIGHT, Science, Carnegie Tech, Representative.
Co rNAEBNEHr fi 80^3
SUBES AND HOSIER? FE1 ADD FRANKSTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
SCIENCE ELECTIONS
I—Juniors
President—Eilerton 
Vice President—rDickinson 
Secretary—Blau 
_ Treasurer—Ba nkowitz
II—Sophomores 
President—Giffen
Vice President—C. A. Stone 
Secretary—Clayton 
Treasurer—G. C. Stone
III—Plebes 
President—Copley 
Vice President—Todd
< Secretary—Wade 
Treasurer—BloomArmy & Navy 
Store Co.
Incorporated 
LARGEST MILITARY OUTFITTERS 
REMOVED TO
623 Liberty Avenue
Bell Phone Court 4450
Tnc standing of a man is as oft»' 
as not told by his footwear—if he U 
careless of that, he’s apt to be negli­
gent of more important things. II 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are “all right.” Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
The folowing is an extract from a 
speech delivered by Mrs. Hamerschlag 
at the Re-organization meeting of the 
Tech Red Cross Unit:
Women have united in response to 
an imperative need that they might 
serve their country in just the same 
spirit as the men who have responded 
to the call to arms. All men will not 
go to the battlefront—but each will be 
of service in the Great Plan of Prep­
aration and Reclamation; giving as­
surance to the man in the front line 
french of a reasonable amount of pro­
tection by those at home while he is 
fighting to make life safe and happy 
for the dear ones at home; assuring 
him of proper guidance, sufficient 
arms, adequate supplies, and in case 
of accident, medical service. ;
Now we can help in both branches I 
of that great plan: Preparation and | 
Reclamation. We can prepare and 
make ready hospital supplies and ( 
plenty of dressings, nice soft and 
clean to staunch the flow of blood and 
dress'the wound, and so-help .reclaim 
the injured back to health.
There has been organized within 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
an American Red Cross Unit. The 
Auxiliary consists of:
Chairman—Mrs. Arthur A. Hamer­
schlag.
Vice Chairman—Mrs. ; James I. 
Johnston.
Second Vice Chairman—Miss Anna 
McCandless, M. M. C. S.
Third Vice Chairman—Miss Crowe, 
Applied Design.
Secretary and Treasurer — Miss 
Kruger, M. M. C. S.
Purchasing Agent—Miss Cameron, 
Applied Design.
Since you are contemplating Mili­
tary Discipline in the school, why not 
regard Red Cross work as military 
service. Plan to give it a definite 
number of hours per week, at sta.ted 
times, in so far as’it is compatible 
with your studies.
The workroom in the Design school 
will be open daily excepting Saturday 
and Sunday, from 11:30 a. m. to 2:00 
]). m. Try to arrange your duties and 
lunch period so as' to report to the 
workroom at a given hour daily, or on 
certain days—some coming at 11:30, 
and other taking a later period and 
remaining till 2:00 p. m., but never 
hesitate to come in at any time even 
for so short a period of 15 minutes. 
By the above plan the workroom will 
always be in use and Mrs. Hamer­
schlag and Mrs. .Johnston will know 
s|v31 many workers to expect and pre­
pare for. Further we shall be able to 
report to Headquarters the number 
of dressings we can make .
The Design girls are going to be 
called upon to make their, first sacri­
fice to the cause. The Museaum is un­
suitable; the light is insufficient l’or 
continuous work’and fresh air is lack­
ing. Therefore we have asked for 
their recreation, room as being the 
most suitable,workroom because of 
the good light and air and its conven­
ience. It is planned to partition off a 
rectangle of the locker room and re­
move all the wcker furniture, ruge, 
mirror, etc., there and make it cozy. 
iSince milder weather is coming you 
will not find it a. great hardship as the 
out-doors will lure you to short walks 
after your work in the Red Crosis 
room. I hope you are willing, are you? 
As a. parting word, bear in mind that 
the product of one pair of hands will 
be multiplied by just the number of 
girls working.
Get your uniforms where you won’t be disappointed. We still 
have a plenty. We do not take your deposit when we cannot fill your 
order, our method of doing business is clean, you can tell our uniforms 
from the others,—they fit. Pick out a man that has a good fit, he will 
say go to KIRK’S. That’s the slogan at TECH.
UNIFORMS SHOES
CAPS SHIRTS
OFFICERS' RAINCOATS SWEATERS
SWAGGER STICKSSOX
KIRK’S MILITARY SHOP
108 SIXTH STREET (Formerly Federah Street)
Represented by Harry Gellin rtj
^ ij
ATTENTION!!
Your uniform and equipments can be secured at 
a very low figure. All U. S. Regulation goods. We 
have on hand a'full supply of:
O. D. WOOL BLOUSE AND BREECHES....$18^00 
O. D. COTTON BLOUSE AND BREECHES. .$6.25
Caps .............$1.50-$2.00
SHOES
TRENCH COATS.$8.50 
MACKINAWS ..$16.50
SHIRTS.................$3.50SWEATERS ....$4.00 |
HATS......................$1.75GLOVES...................90c *
MILITARY BOOKSINSIGNIAS.............15c *
OVERCOATSPUTTEES... .$2.00 up £
MORE INTERESTING NEWS 
CONCERNING PLEBES
Science Plebes are not the only re­
bellious subjects on the Tech campus 
these days. Two Margaret Morrison 
Plebes were discoverea living in bliss 
without their arm-bamds. Only the 
kind hearts of the M. M. C. S. Sopho­
mores saved these Plebes from a. fate 
Similar to that of the Science Plebes. 
Each of the girls was made to wear 
one yellow and one red stocking dur­
ing the afternoon of last Friday. Then 
as a final demonstration of their re­
gard for the Sophomores, these two 
girls carried all the Sophomores’ 
books to Forbes street. For the first 
time, the faculty praised the Sopho­
more class for its wholesome prepara­
tions to study over the week-end.
Last Wednesday night the upper­
classmen of the West Dormitory pre­
pared a little surprise party for cer­
tain Plebes who had failed to answer 
telephone on their nights, or who had 
been naughty in other ways. About 
eleven Plebes were surprised with an 
invitation. They can perhaps give a 
more vivid account of the party than 
one who was not an honor guest, as 
they were very intimately connected 
with proceedings.
MISS CARPENTER LEADS 
DISCUSSION ATY. W. C.A.
On Thursday the Y. W. C. A. girls 
held another of their interesting weelc- 
1 ly meetings. After a social half hour 
1 spent over the cups, the program was 
( well managed by Annette Carpenter.
• The theme of Friendship was carried 
out through the/Bible lesson and pray- 
| er, and through verses read by sev­
eral girls. In a short discussion, Miss 
’ Carpenter told the girls the value of 
friendship to otherwise, rather monot­
onous school lives, and made it clear 
that the Unseen Friend was funda­
mentally important. The popular 
book "The Student in Arms” contains 
a chapter showing the vivid reality of 
prayer as the student soldier grows 
to understand it. This was read by 
Helen Clark. Singing was enjoyed 
and. the meeting disbanded about 7 
o’clock.
> V * ?:
Thistle Board Meeting 
Thursday—5 p. m. 
IMPORTANT
ZeGaGeCp|§A
The House of Service
Victor Record Service
Means Prompt and Courteous Attention
All the Records you ask for, and Homelike Parlors on first and 
second floors for demonstration.
We have in stock the following:
64696—Keep the Home Fires Burning 
35663—Missouri Waltz 
18386—It’s a Long Way to Berlin 
87282—Just Before the Battle Mother 
35651—Gems from Oh Boy 
18391—The South Will Do Her Part 
64716—Sing Me Love's Lullaby 
35660—Rambler Rose
