Volume 92, Issue 1Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 19062 September 1997
Inside
Calendar.................................................................114
Classified................................................................13
Comics........................................................................L4
Diversions..................................................................L7
Living.......................................................................LI
Forum............................................................................6
Sports..........................................................................11
Forum
First-years get advice 
• see page 8
Diversions
Flashback to fests 
• see page L7
Features
THE TARTAN
Students study abroad 
• see page LI
Nell Babra/Tartan Art Staff
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff 
The brothers of Kappa Sigma are hosting barbecues for everyone by the Fence to facilitate rush.Kappa Sig stays on quad
By ENA KHAN
Tartan News Editor
University officials have re­
voked their decision from last 
February to terminate the lease 
of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. 
The brothers have been allowed 
to keep the house given that they 
abide by several restrictions set 
by the University.
The brothers are not allowed to 
hold any social events in the house 
for the next academic year and 
are not allowed to drink or pos­
sess any alcohol in the house for 
the next two years. In addition, 
the brothers must collectively 
perform 500 hours of community
service within the next year.
The fraternity originally lost 
its housing lease after serving 
alcohol to a minor in September 
1996. The pledge (currently a 
brother of Kappa Sigma) was 
taken to the hospital with a dan­
gerously high blood alcohol level.
After an administrative hear­
ing with University officials and 
Kappa Sigma officers the deci­
sion was made to terminate the 
lease. Michael Murphy, dean of 
Student Affairs, Tim Michaels, 
director of Housing, Campus Po­
lice Chief James LaPaglia, and 
William Elliott, vice president for 
enrollment, were among those 
representing the University dur­
ing the hearing.
Upset by the decision, the broth­
ers filed an appeal. Aaron Knoop, 
a junior mechanical engineering 
major and the president of Kappa 
Sigma said, “We worked with the 
University to come up with a more 
constructive punishment.... Last 
semester, morale in the house 
was really low. When we heard 
that we get to keep the house, 
morale shot up,” said Knoop.
Elliott served as the primary 
liaison between the University 
and the fraternity. “I was trying 
to seek some ground so that 
Kappa Sigma could continue as a 
fraternity,3 said Elliott.
Please see KAPPA SIGMA, page 7
Thefts plague dorms
By MAUREEN 
MCGRANAGHAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Students living in Fairfax and 
Webster Halls have reported sev­
eral incidents of theft and tres­
passing by a black male about 22 
years of age. The suspect has 
gained access to the buildings by 
approaching residents and ask­
ing to.use their phones.
Sameer Qureshi, a first-year 
student majoring in computer 
science and living on the sixth 
floor of Fairfax, agreed and took 
the man to his apartment. Then, 
after leaving the room momen­
tarily, Qureshi returned to find 
the suspect in the bedroom, look­
ing through the dresser drawers. 
After this incident, the suspect 
returned on two other occasions 
and again began to search 
through Qureshi’s apartment. 
Though Qureshi and his room­
mate did not find anything miss­
ing, other students have reported 
missing items.
“If we have a suspect matching 
that description or he is seen tak­
ing someone’s property, we will 
arrest him, and he will be pros­
ecuted to the full extent of the 
law,” said Officer Joe Bernarding 
of Campus Police’s crime preven­
tion unit. “We will charge him 
with criminal trespassing and 
theft by deception.”
Residents in Fairfax first re­
ported the suspect in July, but 
his activity has increased since 
the students have returned to 
campus. In the last two weeks, 
six reports have been filed with 
Campus Police. “ [Theft and tres­
passing] happens everywhere 
when students are first coming 
back and when they’re getting 
ready to leave,” Officer Paul 
Helffrich said.- “Students are 
frazzled then. He knows who to 
pick on, who will be an easy tar-
Students living in Fairfax have 
seen the suspect on campus as 
well, often in the University Cen­
ter. “He’s very smooth,” Officer 
Bernarding says. “He’s kind of 
like a chameleon. Just by talking; 
to you for a few minutes, he can 
find out what your interests are.” 
In attempting to enter the build­
ings, the suspect frequently en­
gages residents in conversations 
sometimes based on these inter-; 
ests. He spoke Arabic to Qureshi 
and claimed to be from Libya.
Brian Smlth/Tartan Photo Staff 
Repeated crimes in the Fairfax and Webster apartment buildings 
created the need for crime prevention meeting last Thursday night.
U.S. News Theftspl agu fdorTomIntel funds research
By GIL ALTEROWITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
In its annual ranking of national uni­
versities, U.S. News & World Report 
placed CMU 23rd out of 228 national 
universities in its September 1 issue. 
The rank places CMU in the top 25 
group of select schools, a position it has 
held each year since 1990 except last 
year when it was rated 28th . Tufts 
University, the University of California 
at Berkeley, and the University of Michi­
gan were also ranked 23rd . Harvard 
and Princeton topped the charts in 1st 
place, Duke and Yale ranked third, and 
Stanford placed fifth.
U.S. News & World Report ranked 
CMU 14th in its ranking of schools 
containing the highest proportion of 
classes with under 20 students. Its Web 
site ranked CMU 17th in its list of 
schools with the highest proportion of 
engineering majors. Under the “best 
values” category, CMU ranked 19th.
President Jared Cohon said, “I think 
that, to me, the significant thing is that 
there is clear recognition here that
Carnegie Mellon is in that top group of 
major universities in this country... the 
top 25 in the country. That’s a very 
select group and it’s a group that we 
belong in.”
CMU’s best rank in the survey in the 
past was 13th position in 1983, the first 
year U.S. News & World Report did a 
survey ofU.S. national universities. The 
survey was quite different back then,
according to A1 Sanoff, Managing Edi­
tor of America’s Best Colleges at U.S. 
News & World Report. “This thing 
started as simply a reputational rank­
ing. It was simply based on a survey of 
reputations among people in higher 
education ... now it’s only 25 percent of 
our model,” said Sanoff.
Don Hale, vice president for Univer- 
Please see RANKINGS, page 3
By ELLEN BELDNER
Tartan Staffwriter
Imagine that you could create a wish 
list of almost six million dollars worth 
of computer equipment just so you could 
pursue a stack of research projects in 
various academic disciplines. Now 
imagine that the Intel Corporation, the 
world’s largest computer chip manu­
facturer, granted your wish. On Au­
gust 18 CMU and 11 other schools na­
tionwide were awarded $85 million to 
pursue various research ventures.
Intel, which will donate the money in 
the form of computers over the next 
three years, announced that Carnegie 
Mellon would be one of the grant recipi­
ents in its “Technology for Education
2000 program.” Intel will provide the 
University with almost $6 million in 
computer equipment and service over 
the next three years.
“We’ll be receiving the equipment over 
a three-year period, but most of it will be 
in the first year,” said Vice Provost for 
Computing Resources Alex Hills. “In 
fact, we’ve already received some of the 
equipment.... We expect that we’ll have 
most of the equip­
ment in that one- 
year period.” 
Intel awarded 
the grants to 
schools such as 
Cornell, Massa­
chusetts Insti­
tute of Technol­
ogy, and the Uni­
versity of California at Berkeley based 
on proposals that the schools submitted 
last spring. Thirty schools were initially 
invited to apply for the grants, which 
were awarded based on the schools’ aca­
demic excellence, how the proposed 
projects would impact the schools’ fac­
ulty and students, and the institutions’ 
Please see INTEL, page 31-Ping Ll/Tartan Managing Editor
"We'll be receiving the equip­
ment over a three-year period...” 
— Alex Hills, vice president for 
___________Computing Resources
"—fop__ e_do eftmfpllpl
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
Currently in the preliminary stages of 
construction, the Purnell Center for the 
the Arts is slated for completion in Octo­
ber of 1999. As of the beginning of 
September, the building is both on time 
and on the estimated budget of $32 mil­
lion.
“Once the construction starts, that’s 
when the budget problems start,” said 
Martin Prekop, dean of the College of 
Fine Arts (CFA). “We’ve had some prob-
I lems in the design stage reaching the 
budget, but we’ve accomplished that. It 
was hard work, but there were no insur­
mountable problems.”
During the design stage, architects 
make estimations regarding costs. How­
ever, it is not until contractors give offi­
cial bids on parts of a project that plan­
ners know actual charges. This informa­
tion determines if a project will stay on 
budget, according to Paul Tellers, Uni­
versity architect. Tellers said that the 
entire job of building the Purnell Center 
has not been bid out to contractors yet, 
but contractors have been hired for the 
majority of work.
Turner Construction has been hired 
to oversee all of the various contractors 
on a daily basis. The University man­
ager of the construction for the Purnell 
Center of the Arts is Tom Murphy, se­
nior project manager.
“What you see on the Cut right now is 
the completion of the relocation of the 
steam lines, sewer lines, domestic water 
lines, and the fire lines,” said Murphy. 
“That will be finished up the beginning 
of next week.... You won’t see anything 
else until the fifteenth of September. At 
that time, we’ll begin to erect the con­
struction fence. In late September, we’ll 
Please see PURNELL, page 5
No pain, no gain...
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Contributing Editor 
The rugby team began their season Saturday afternoon on the intramural fields during their fist practice.

---------------------------------------------------

U.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V
Fatal auto accident kills Princess Diana
PARIS (AP) — It was supposed to a be 
a romantic evening in Paris — dinner 
and a drive in one of Princess Diana’s 
favorite cities with her new beau, Dodi 
Fayed.
Diana’s last day included supper at 
the Ritz Hotel, which is owned by his 
father, has a 100,000-bottle wine cel­
lar and is known for its seafood.
.It was to have ended in a private villa 
r— also owned by Dodi’s father— 
across the Seine River in an exclusive 
district known as the 16th 
arrondissement.
But the couple never got there, and 
Diana’s hope for a discreet weekend in 
Paris ended in catastrophe. After leav­
ing the Ritz around midnight in a car 
¡chauffeured by a hotel employee, their 
.black Mercedes, pursued by photogra­
phers on motorcycles, slammed into 
¡the wall of a tunnel along the Seine, 
¡less than a half-mile from the Eiffel 
Tower. The car apparently smashed 
into a concrete post in the center di­
vider, then bounced into the right wall. 
The impact crushed the car.
; Bleeding profusely in the chest area, 
¡Diana was transported to the La Pitie- 
Salpetriere in southwestern Paris, 
where doctors operated and then 
¡applied heai't massage for two hours.
Courtsey of ReutersPolice remove the crumpled wreck of the Mercedez-Benz which 
was reportedly carrying Princess Diana Sunday morning in Paris
But they failed to get her heart going 
and Diana died at 4 am from internal 
bleeding stemming from major and 
lung injuries, said Dr. Bruno Riou, 
head of intensive care at the hospital. 
France had been a favorite destina­
tion for Diana and Dodi, whose ro­
mance has been front-page news since 
they took their first Mediterranean 
cruise in July. The had frolicked to­
gether in the waters off Nice and St. 
Tropez, where Diana had vacationed 
in the past. Diana, 36, spoke some 
French and seemed at ease in the 
country, and at one point reportedly 
had considered buying a home in south­
ern France.
According to French media, the couple 
left southern France earlier Saturday 
following a Mediterranean cruise for 
their second lightning visit to the City 
of Light.
On July 26, Dodi flew Diana to Paris 
where she stayed at the Ritz, a luxury 
hotel filled with authentic Louis XVI 
furniture where rooms easily run $750 
a night. It was during that visit that 
Diana visited the home of the later 
Duke and Duchess of Windsor near 
the Bois de Boulogne, also owned by 
Dodi’s father. Employees at the Ritz 
refused to comment Sunday on the 
princess’s 
evening 
there, and 
referred all 
calls to the 
British em­
bassy.
At the time 
of her di­
vorce from 
Prince 
Charles, 
Diana had 
said all she 
wanted was 
“to take the 
Channel 
Tunnel train 
for a week­
end in Paris.
Pittsburgh doctor 
wins settlement
PITTSBURGH (AP) — After 3 and a 
half years of fighting accusations of sci­
entific wrongdoing, breast cancer re­
searcher Dr. Bernard Fisher has won an 
apology and a reported $3 million settle­
ment.
“I’m very delighted and pleased to have 
this behind me,” Fisher said Thursday. 
The apology came Wednesday from the 
University of Pittsburgh.
To settle Fisher’s lawsuit, the univer­
sity will pay him $2.75 million and the 
National Cancer Institute will pay 
$300,000 toward his legal fees, the Pitts­
burgh Post Gazette reported today after 
obtaining a copy of the settlement 
through the Freedom of Information Act. 
Fisher has studied breast cancer for 40 
years. He proved that radiation therapy 
plus lumpectomy, or removal of the ma­
lignant tumor, guarded against the re­
currence of cancer as effectively as the 
removal of an entire breast plus sur­
rounding tissue.
In 1993, the federal Office of Research 
Integrity found that a Montreal physi­
cian in the project had faked data about 
the eligibility of some patients for a 
breast cancer study.
The National Cancer Institute, the 
project sponsor, asked Fisher to remove 
the false information and re-analyze the 
data. He did so within 10 months.
The institute rebuked Fisher, saying he 
was slow to reveal the problems and that 
his auditors failed to find problems with 
information from 10 other researchers. 
It also said he failed in 1992 to 1993 to 
inform volunteers in his study of the 
cancer drug tamoxifen that four people 
who died during the study had contracted 
uterine cancer.
Fisher said there was no hurry to announce 
the problems with the data because they 
did not affect the research results.
He said that after the researchers dis­
covered a possible link between 
tamoxifen and uterine cancer.
And he said overseeing the project be­
came harder after thousands of women 
joined the study.
The institute forced the university to 
remove Fisher as project director, allow­
ing him to remain as scientific director.
Tee time.
Courtesy of ReutersPresident Bill Clinton searches in vain for his errant tee shot at the Farm Neck 
Country Club on Martha’s Vineyard where the Clintons are vacationing.
Yale’s recommendation to incoming 
students: “Don’t buy Macintoshes.”
NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT (Clari 
News) — Apple Computer Inc., recog­
nized as a leader in the education mar­
ket, heard a stunning announcement 
from Yale University when the Ivy 
League institution advised incoming stu­
dents to purchase Windows-based com­
puters rather than Macintosh comput­
ers. In the same announcement, Yale 
claimed the school could not guarantee 
support for Macintosh computers be­
yond June, 2000.
A letter from Daniel A. Updegrove, 
director for Yale Information Technol­
ogy Services, told incoming freshmen, 
“Currently both Windows PC and Apple 
Macintosh computers are supported at 
Yale. If you plan to purchase a new 
computer, however, you are strongly 
encouraged to select a Windows PC, 
which was the choice of over 75% of first 
year student computer owners in 1996- 
97. Owing to uncertainties about avail­
ability of software for Apple operating 
systems, the University cannot guar­
antee support for Macintoshes beyond 
June 2000.”
His welcoming letter also states, “Yale
is a computing- and networking-inten­
sive environment. Effectively all stu­
dents use computers for writing papers 
and lab reports; accessing library and 
other scholarly resources at Yale and 
throughout the world; and communicat­
ing with faculty, fellow students, Yale 
administrative offices, friends, family, 
and prospective graduate schools and 
employers.”
An AOL report on Updegrove’s letter 
read, “Bring money and clean sheets, 
but not Apple Macintoshes. That’s the 
advice Yale University is giving its in­
coming class of 1,310 freshmen.” “Why 
is Yale — where 25% of last year’s fresh­
men owned an Apple — losing faith in 
Apple?” As Updegrove explains it, Macs 
are becoming increasingly incompatible 
with the school’s brawny administrative 
software. The third-party code-writers 
developing new library, class schedul­
ing, and grade-reporting systems are 
focusing almost exclusively on Windows. 
“Adapting them for the Macintosh,” says 
Updegrove, “is becoming ‘an after­
thought’ for the school’s computer pro­
grammers.’”
aft\^ mdNSpfl Nt eftNplN et_T6p NtfN—fp t8 2dTNTdo To -p\ 1tfr aTN&
NEW YORK (AP) — An esti­
mated 5,000 marchers protest­
ing the torture of a Haitian im­
migrant, allegedly at the hands 
of police, today walked to City 
Hall, where hundreds were gear­
ing up for a rally against police 
brutality.
The march dubbed “Day of Out­
rage Against Police Brutality 
and Harassment” was held in 
support of 30-year-old Abner 
Louima, who underwent an­
other round of surgery Thurs­
day as a result of a ruptured 
colon and bladder. He claims 
officers beat and sodomized him 
with a toilet plunger.
The marchers crossed the 
Brooklyn Bridge this afternoon,
forcing police to shut down the 
lanes heading into lower Man­
hattan, where Haitian immi­
grant Jean Bernard was among 
the demonstrators awaiting 
their arrival.
“The problem is the police think 
they are the only ones that count 
— no one else,” said Bernard, a 
toilet plunger in one hand and a 
Haitian flag in the other. The bru­
tality “is not affecting one class — 
it’s affecting everybody,” he said. 
The marchers held signs read­
ing “Justice for All Victims” and 
mocked a police campaign dubbed 
“Courtesy, Professionalism, Re­
spect” with placards that said 
“Criminals, Perverts, Racists.” 
Early police estimates put the
crowd at 2,000 but it appeared to 
be at least twice that large. 
“Crime is going down everywhere 
but in the New York City Police 
Department,” said mayoral can­
didate and civil rights activist A1 
Sharpton. He joined former 
Mayor David Dinkins at the head 
of the crowd, which stepped off 
this morning from Brooklyn’s 
Grand Army Plaza.
Dr. Joseph Baptiste, chairman 
of the National Organization for 
the Advancement of Haitians, 
came from Washington with sev­
eral dozen followers.
“When something happens we 
want to show unity,” Baptiste 
said. “Hopefully the mayor’s of­
fice will hear our cry for justice.
We hope that police will recruit 
more minorities to reflect the 
community.”
The attack on Louima, who is 
black, has become a rallying cry for 
those who say police are abusive, 
particularly to minorities. Four 
white officers from Brooklyn’s 70th 
Precinct stationhouse were 
charged with assault or sexual as­
sault in the Aug. 9 attack, and 
federal civil rights officials joined 
the investigation.
Louima is seeking $55 million in 
civil damages from the city, and 
his attorneys said they plan to 
raise that figure to $465 million. 
He was in critical but stable condi­
tion after surgery to repair a bowel 
obstruction, but doctors said his
life was not in 
danger.
Anti-police 
sentiment 
has been 
brewing in 
the 7 0th Pre­
cinct since 
Louima’s at­
tack and 
early today a 
single shot 
was fired at 
a police 
cruiser from 
a rooftop, 
said Officer 
Joseph
Courtesy of Reuters
A 5,000 person crowd of demonstrators marches across 
the Brooklyn Bridge towards City Hall in New York.
Cavitolo, a police spokesman. 
No officers were hit and it was
not clear whether the patrol car 
was hit, he said.
Four-Day Forecast Carnegie Almanac
TuesdaySunny.
Hi 63 Lo 44
WednesdayMostly Cloudy. 
Hi 67 Lo 42
ThursdayPartly Cloudy. 
Hi 66 Lo 54
FridayPartly Cloudy. 
Hi 65 Lo 44
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, October 7, 
1947 — Carnegie Tech opened 
the new school year with the larg­
est enrollment in its history, 3,600 
students. The large size of the 
entering class was made possible 
by the return of the two semester 
system, on hold due to World War 
II. 80 percent of the men were 
veterans, but only 50 percent in 
the incoming class were veterans 
indicating an end to the deluge of 
ex-servicemen on campus. At the 
time, the largest department, by 
far, was the electrical engineer­
ing department, receiving 70 per­
cent of the year’s applications.
25 YEARS AGO, September 
5, 1972 — At a special session 
held earlier in the summer, the 
Executive Committee of the 
Board of Trustees voted to sus­
pend plans for the projected 
Drama Building. The main rea­
son for the decision was because 
of the lack of monetary funds. 
Only $2.5 million of the $4.7 mil­
lion goal was realized at the time 
of the decision. CMU President 
Richard M. Cyert regretted that 
one of his first major decisions of 
his tenure was so painful to the 
College of Fine Arts. Only now is 
that building under construction.
TEN YEARS AGO, Septem­
ber 1,1987 — The initial plan for 
what will be the new entrance­
way to CMU was unveiled. 
Though similar to what has been 
realized today, much of the plan 
was radically different. As it was 
constructed, the University Cen­
ter and the opposing Fine Arts 
Building was to line the Cut. How­
ever, there was to be a new ravine 
created past the two buildings, a 
throwback to CMU’s earlier days. 
In addition a chapel was to have
been constructed across the park­
ing lot from CFA. The original 
plan called for the completion of 
the University Center in three to 
five years, but was not actually 
finished until nine years later.
FIVE YEARS AGO, August 
31, 1992 — CMU mourned the 
loss of Allen Newell, who a had 
been a professor at the Univer­
sity since 1961. He played a cru­
cial role in the founding of the 
School of Computer Science. 
Newell many years back had come 
to then-president Richard Cyert 
with the idea of a “computer net­
work.”
Herbert Simon, a professor at 
CMU, called Newell’s report on 
the subject a “major guidepost. 
Simon said, “His idea was that 
Carnegie Mellon should be a pio­
neer in the field - we had the 
skills, we should be out front, to
make it a part of the educational 
process.”
ONE YEAR AGO, September 
3,1996—The University Center 
was officially inaugurated with 
the complimentary banners, bag­
pipes, and bands. The festivities 
went from morning on into the 
evening. There were many rea­
sons for the event to last all day 
long including the necessity of 
allowing all students to have an 
opportunity to participate in the 
fun, uninhibited by their class 
schedule. The most climactic 
moment, however, was the rib­
bon cutting ceremony held in Kirr 
Commons. The night’s entertain­
ment had the feel of a large party, 
and there was plenty of food, 
drink, and free t-shirts to be had.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V0
U.S. News ranks CMU among top 25 universities
RANKINGS, from page 1
sity Relations, cautioned against match­
ing up results from different years. He 
said, “The ranking changes every year 
in terms of the criteria, the weighting of 
the various criteria, so it’s a mistake to 
sort of read ‘Last year we were 28th, and 
this year being 23rd as comparable’... In 
some ways, the weighings may have 
affected your particular ranking.”
Sanoff noted several shifts in CMU’s 
statistics, as measured by the U.S. News 
survey. “There were small improvements 
in key areas, particularly first-year stu­
dents’ retention [and] graduation rates.” 
There were also improvements as mea­
sured by increased selectivity and a de­
clining acceptance rate.
According to Sanoff, even small 
changes in CMU’s retention and gradu­
ation rates can make a difference, since 
these components make 20 percent of 
the rankings score, second in impor­
tance only to academic reputation.
Cohon said, “[The] issue of retention 
was something we were looking at, it 
was something the University worked 
on, and it has improved.” Although up
A wish come true...
from last year, CMU’s first-year student 
retention rates are the lowest in the top 
25. Changes in graduation rates, as 
measured by US News & World Report, 
take several years until they make an 
effect on the rankings because the sur­
vey averages several years’ worth of 
data.
“[The U.S. News _________________
& World Report 
rankings] should 
be recognized, but 
let’s not manage 
the University so 
we get the highest 
rank we can,” said
Cohon. rTs&ssmBsaiswmMmnmIn the past couple 
of years, some controversy has devel­
oped as a consequence of the survey’s 
changing criteria. Perhaps one of the 
most controversial aspects of the survey 
has been the value added category, which 
became part of the survey last year. The 
measure seeks to find the difference 
between a predicted graduation rate 
(based on statistics like SAT scores and 
university expenditures) and the actual
graduation rate.
Cohon said, “We are a rigorous place. 
Would we be serving our students or 
society better if were to reduce our 
rigor just so we have a higher quote 
‘value added’ as U.S. News defines 
it?”
Sanoff defended the measure. “The
When analyzing the “value added” 
scores for the top ten schools with the 
highest proportion of business majors 
(based on U.S. News & World Report 
figures), only one of the 10 schools 
had a negative “value added” score. 
Yet, when examining the same statis­
tics for the corresponding top ten en-
“[The U.S. News & World Report rankings] should be 
recognized, but let’s not manage the University so we 
get the highest rank we can. ”
— Jared Cohon, President
value added concept is based on work 
done by a highly respected researcher 
in Iowa City, Iowa,” he said.
It is not perfect — there is no per­
fect measure — but anyone who is 
expert in studying higher education 
knows that one factor that is consid­
ered a measure of a school’s success is 
its ability to graduate those students 
who matriculate there.”
gineering schools, it was discovered 
that only one of the ten had a positive 
“value added” score.
“It’s clear that engineering institu­
tions, for reasons that are undoubt­
edly complex, don’t fair as well on 
‘value added.’ Whether that’s because 
of their rigor or it’s because they are 
not matriculating the right students 
for their institution is an open ques-
tion,” said Sanoff.
“While we don’t pretend it’s perfect,<; 
I would also say that academics spend ., 
their lives poking holes in things. But,
I would challenge them to come up 
with a better and more useful way of 
measuring outcomes, because thejr are 
very good at talking about it, and very 
bad at coming up with anything con­
crete,” added Sanoff.
Sanoff summed up his perspective 
on the annual survey. “This is a tool, 
but it should be used as just one of a 
number of things and not used in iso­
lation, because rankings are simply 
one measure. ... A school may be a 
very highly ranked school and it may 
be totally inappropriate for you for a 
whole host of reasons,” he said.
Hale said, “I would say that the 
future looks bright for Carnegie 
Mellon in terms of being in this group 
of select institutions because a couple 
of the key measures that U.S. News 
has used over the years — retention of 
students, selectivity — both of these 
measurements we’re making big im­
provements in.”
Intel donates computers
INTEL, from page 1
commitment to support the pro­
posed project goals.
CMU’s proposal included 
project outlines from all of the 
University’s seven colleges.
“That’s a really interesting 
thing about this proposal,” said 
Hills. “It includes all the schools 
and colleges in the University. 
We put together a team with 
representatives from every col­
lege in the University, and 
within each school, there were 
principal investigators who 
were requesting equipment.”
Assistant Dean of the School 
of Computer Science Alan 
Fischer, who with Hills was a 
project leader for creating and 
submitting the proposal to Intel,
said that he was very pleased 
when he learned that CMU 
would receive an Intel grant. 
“We’ve already gotten some of 
the machines installed in the 
[Wean Hall] 5419 clusters,” said 
Fischer.
Projects for the computers in­
clude research in hardware veri­
fication to ensure that chips are 
built correctly (ECE), brain-im­
aging applications (Psychology), 
and the use of robots in three- 
dimensional environments 
(SCS).
The computers, which range 
from Pentium II desktop ma­
chines to four-processor serv­
ers, will mostly be used for re­
search projects that demand 
high-power computing, al­
though a small number will be 
used for the general computing 
needs of the student body. CMU 
will have to purchase monitors 
and software programs for the 
machines.
“What Intel wanted was a 
broad representation from the 
University and they also wanted 
what they call ‘computationally 
demanding applications,’ ” said 
Hills.
“They wanted, especially, re­
search projects — not neces­
sarily research projects in com­
puter science, but ones that re­
quired lots of computing power. 
And I think that’s mostly be­
cause they want to have inter­
esting stuff to talk about when 
they do publicity.”
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
JjsfTEL Fourou-Daoy ecstyoCong iou Alms-Daoy 
MBBB fauJDjTomyl EyaLcuJaDg Iu-yDJ
($4.8 Million) ($2.3 Million)
liversity of Wisconsin, California Institute of
(S5.9 Million) Ma„cÜ/son Technology
University of 
Washington 10%
($5.9 Million) 
Carnegie Mellon 
University%
($6.0 Million) 
University of Texas, 
Austin 10%
($2.8 Million) 
University of Southern 
California 
5%
($6.0 Million) 
University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor 10%
($6.0 Million) 
Cornell University 
9%
($3.7 Million) Georgia Institute of 
Technology
($5.6 Million) 
Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology 
9%
($6.0 Million)
University of California,
Berkely 10%
FIRST-ROUND UNIVERSITY GRANT TOTAL AMOUNT: $61.2 MILLION
($6.2 Million) 
Perdue University 
- 10%
l-Ping Ll/Tartan Managing Editor
Trustees honor 7th president
A new professorship has been estab­
lished to honor president Robert 
Mehrabian, CMU’s seventh president 
who retired from his post in June. The 
professorship was established by mem­
bers on CMU’s board of trustees: An­
drew I. Merson, Thomas A. McConomy, 
William P. Snyder, and Charles J. 
Queenan Sr.
Professor John L. Anderson, dean of 
the college of Engineering, is the first 
receipient fo the $1.5million honor.
The new professorship will be avail­
able to all academic disciplines. Ander­
son will hold the profoessorship for 10 
years, after which it will be given to 
another professor. Provost Paul
Christiano said, “Dean Anderson and 
Dr. Mehrabian share similar perspec­
tives and adhere to the highest stan­
dards of engineering education and re­
search.”
Anderson is also a professor of chemi­
cal engineering. He received his 
bachelor’s degree at the University of 
Delaware and his doctorate at the Uni­
versity of Illinios. He worked at Cornell 
University before coming to CMU in 
1976. Between 1980-85 he was the di­
rector of Biomedical Engineering. From 
1983-94 he was the head of the Chemi­
cal Engineering Department.
CNN covers CMU
CNN will broadcast a story on Nomad, ’ 
the autonomous lunar rover built by 
researchers at Carnegie Mellon's Robot­
ics Institute, on its Science Saturday
program at 11 am, Saturday, Aug. 30. 
The story will also air at 7 am, Wednes­
day, Sept. 3.
Alumni director takes new post
Steve Calvert, the assistant vice presi­
dent for Development and the director 
of Alumni relations, resigned after a six 
year career at CMU. Calvert will be 
returning to New England with his fam­
ily. He became the vice president for 
alumni relations at Brown University 
in Providence, Rhode Island this past 
July. He has been involved in projects 
such as reunions, Homecomings, alumni 
tent at Spring Carnival, Outreach, a 
World Wide Web site, clan and reunion
seminars, and the 525 Academy for Life­
long Learning. Calver, a graduate of 
CMU, plans on attending the 30th 
reunuion of the class of 1968 next year 
and will participate in the class gift.
Professor earns COPPS award
Kathryn Roeder, associate professor 
of statistics, received the COPPS (Com­
mittee of Presidents of Statistical Soci­
eties) Presidents' Award as the outstand­
ing statistician age 40 or younger. This 
is an award given to a single individual 
each year jointly by the American Sta­
tistical Association, the Institute of 
Mathematical Statistics, the Biometric 
Society (Eastern and Western North 
America regions) and the Canadian Sta­
tistical Society. It is, in other words, the 
big prize in statistics in North America.CMU researches breast cancer
Individuals who have been diagnosed 
with Stage 0 (DCIS), I, II or III breast 
cancer in the past year and have chil­
dren who are either in high school or ¦ 
going into high school this fall, may be' 
eligible to participate in a research study' - 
at Carnegie Mellon. Researchers un-' - 
der the supervision of Dr. Vicki'- 
Helgeson, associate professor, Depart-' -• 
ment of Psychology, are testing the ef­
fectiveness of educational intervention - 
for teenagers whose mothers have been' 
diagnosed with breast cancer. If you' 
are interested call x8-2624 or x8-802? ' 
for more information.
/
&& // Ì \ \WOW mWlTH YOUR KAZAAMs!!
/ / / ¿ \ w \,i
RAW, ART*»CoMlc$ FOR THE TARTAN!
/— ¦ VN \s ^
XZTA HOfl CALI X fc-ZHl OR FMAlLpb3s
United Campus 
Ministry
of Prtisburglì
CMU’s Protestant Campus Ministry
«s¡
Y"
tir
FleaSejoin us for 
Connec-tion, our 
Student fellowship 
which meets
at (r.OO p.m. 
at ~F\rSt baptist 
Church, (comer of 
fiellefteld and ftayard).
£JdeS agitable from UC 
cÀrcÀe & ‘5:‘5‘5 p.m.
We also offer- a 
ftible Stvdij on the 
&ospels, Thvr^da^ at 
Moon, UC Chapel area 
and Midnight Manna, a 
contemplative worth ip 
Service, Thursday at 
midnight in the chapel.
UCM represents Seven FroteStant denominations — American dapfist, Church of 
the brethren, Christian Church (Pisdples), ^Scopai, FreSbfcrian (USA), 
United Church of Christ, and United Methodist
CaM 682-1051 or browse 
www.anJrew.cmu.edu/user/ssteclc/ ucm 
for more info.
uc
M
is
If ijou want Something, 
iwore from your week-- 
end than alcohol, don't 
miSS Feter's Cellar 
Christian Coffee 
House, UCMÍS alterna­
tivi to the bar Seene, 
on "Fridays from 
6-11 p.m. at Albright 
United Methodist 
Church in Shadyside 
(comer of Centre 
Ave-, if S. (graham), 
cover (all you can 
drink.open mifac, 
deSSertS, eSpreSSo 
drinks, games and

---------------------------------------------------

Sharon BansalMEGElias L. FallonECEJon P. NedelECE
Michael B. BatzECEStephen R. FoxCHEGerald NgECE
Alexander Z. BerkovichECEJin Lung FungECELuis J. OmsMEG
! Catherine M. BishopMSEAnal Gal-OrMEGAnthony C. PaulCEE/EPP
! Louis A. BojarskiCEESamuel J. GersteinECEStephanie L. PostalECE
; Gabriel N. BrintonMEGThomas W. GilbertMSEBrian R. PraskyECE
John P. BrzustowiczMEGAudrey L. GrubeECEAron L. RalstonMEG
Steven S. BumsMEGPrakash GudaECECarla R. SantoroCEE
I Daniel W. CheongCHE.Richard D. HerrMEGDavid M. SaylorMSE
Taek J. ChoiMEGBrian D. HutsellECEAndrew L. SchnitgcnCHE
; Heng-Chieh ChuMEGChad A. JasiunasCHERonak SinghalECE
1 Deborah C. CohenCEEJonathan F. KliegmanECEHitesh M. SonejiECE
¦ Melissa D. CooperECETimothy J. KnivetonECEMichael E. SpenaMEG
! Adam A. D’AmbrosioECEIdco M. KrisnarttoMEGJennifer R. SweterlitschMEG
Bradley W. DietrichECEJohn W. KuhnsECEEugene R. TaboneCHE
John G. DorseyECEDaniel J. ListECEChctan TrikhaECE
Ryan W. EatmonECERobert E. LongMEGBenjamin L. WangCHE
• Sherry K. EckertCEEAnn M. MewherterCHEAndrew G. WillisECE
! Bassem S. El-DasherMEGMichael S. MontemerloECEClifford T. WoodMEG
! John W. FaistlECEKirk B. MorganCEEShannon WowakMEG/EPP
Carnegie Institute Of Technology 
Proudly Acknowledges The Academic 
Achievement Of The Following 
Engineering Undergraduates 
Who Have Been Named To 
The Dean’s List For The
THEARN TByBKMBE UCCGI
SENIORSI
JUNIORS
Gil AlterovitzECEWade G. HenningMEGKaren E. PinkstonCEE/EPP
Mark D. BedillionMEGBrian T. HoffmanCHE/EPPStephen M. PisukECE
Jason M. BerzanskyCHEBrian J. IngramMSEJonathan B. PompaMEG
George A. BlahaMEGElizabeth M. JacobsCEE/EPPPradya PrempraneerachMEG
Bryan G. CampoCHEAltug KoymenCHERobert A. RumpfECE
Brian M. ChristopherCHEBryon P. KrugECE/EPPParag S. ShahCHE
Paul C. ConstantinidesECEBrian A. LandauMEGEugenio SolteroCHE
Lisa A. CookCHEJiyoung LeeCEEJoshua M. StaufferMEG
Kris N. DahlCHEJoshua J. LindnerECENeal K. TibrewalaECE
Damien F. DixonECEMarin MaydonMEGScott J. WeberECE
Stephane EssadeMSEVolus T. McKennaMEGLisa I. WernerECE
Rolf FellerCHEDilip R. MujudarMEG/EPPMatthew N. WhiteECE
Kathleen A. GallagherMSEJens NeumannCHEJeffrey D. WilleyECE/EPP
Nathan A. GillMEGPhilip T. O’HaraECERichard A. YavorskyECE
Garth R. GoodsonECEGlen C. OngECE
Erik S. GrossECEChristopher P. PesciCHE
SOPHOMORES
Chon BanphawatthanrakECEJeffrey D. HemphillCHEJohn I. MurrayCEE
Peter W. BoettcherECEJoseph C. HuangECEKyle A. OppenheimECE
Jeffrey A. BrownECEMohd Z. IsmailECEAndrew B. OxnardMEG
Samuel P. ChongECEStephen R. IvesECEYun Kay A. PauECE
Kun-Wei ChouCEERussell E. JosephECENos'hir S. PesikaCHE
Jason T. ChouECEEamon C. KelchcrMEGBenjamin R. PuglieseECE
Vaughn T. CoolmanMEGMark A. KimmelCHEMahesh SaptharishiECE
Michael C. DaumECEAdam Z. KlatzkinECECharles M. SchroederCHE
Lenny J. DclligattiECEMichelle C. KondoCEEAkshat H. ShahECE
Kevin R. DixonECEWesley M. KopackaCHEAaron N. SiegelECE
Li-Ping FanCEEKristopher L. KriechbaumMEGHarmit SinghECE
Michael K. FenwickCHETham KricngchaiyaprukECEYoshiki ToriiCHE
Amit FleischerECETze Bin LohECEFrank J. TsaiCEE
David S. FriedmanECEAdrienne M. MessengerCEETimothy J. WameckECE
Andrew J. GallantECEChris T. MesserCHERebecca J. WehrerMSE
Erin M. GayCHETrevor C. MeyerowitzECEKelan A. WielochCHE
Marian D. GoebesCEEJeremy J. MichalekMEG
Daniel GriffithsMEGShipla K. MoorthyCHE
Jeffrey M. HarperECE
FIRST YEAR
; Rachelle R. AbatiCHE Sriram C. GopalanECESooksan PanichpapiboonECE
• Markus A. AdhiwiyogoECE Judy GuoCHEPazhani PillaiECE
• Imad M. AhmedECE Pratish R. HaladyECEPierre PonceECE
i Phathavud ArkaleephanECE Tejaswini P. HebalkarECEMelissa C. ProchCHE
’ Marissa L. AmeyCHE William J. HoltzECEErnest J. PusateriECE
J Hemant BhanooECE Jonathan M. HsiehECESarah M. PutaroCEE
• Akshay BhargavaECE Roger I. HungCHEEric R. ReifECE
• Allison L. BruceECE Raymond C. IpCHEJonathan M. RowlettECE
John M. CafardiCHE Arvind JairamECESteven J. RossMSE
; Michael S. CampieCEE Kyle E. JenningsECEZalifah M. SahirECE
¦ Carmen E. CarrerasMEG Cheryl J. KaminskyCHEJames E. SandersECE
• Thomas M. CasparECE Jason P. KatcoffCHE/EPPScott P. SannerECE
• Matthew K. ChamberlainMEG Ryan C. KelloggECEBarry C. SchneiderECE
Anson S. ChanECE Bradley M. KeryanECEMichael D. ScottECE
‘ Yue ChangECE Michelle A. KruvczukECEMichael S. ShellCHE
; Ling CheungCEE Harrison P. LaiCEEMorgan E. SimmonsMEG
Andrew J. ChosakECE Stanley T. LamECEDavid I. SimonECE
Bedhiran A. CinarMEG Jeffrey Y. LeeECEReena SinghalECE
. Charles W. CollinsECE Lesley L. LeposoECEJames J. SullivanECE
' Alison B. CovcllECE Victor C. LeungECESusan B. SwithcnbankMEG
; Brett M. DiamondECE Wei C. LiECEStephanie A. SzobotaMEG
Christopher M. EatedaliECE Sumil LohiaECEWeechoon TeoECE
John M. EspcrECE Seth T. MatthewsECESuttipong ThajchayapongECE
! Jan K. FalkowskiMEG Michael B. McElroyCHERaymond T. ThngECE
; Laurel FanECE/EPP Clarence C. MysenECEJonathan P. Van’T HofECE
; Samuel Ferraro-PollakMEG Kanit NangkalaMEGChristopher L. VerburgECE
Brian E. FrankclECE Timothy E. NewsomeECEJoshua D. WalstromECE
Scott H. FroomMEG Kcnn R. OldhamMEGKourtney L. WatkissECE
Nathan P. GeisingerECE David A. OleszkiewiczECEMatthew L. WeyantECE
Frank E. GennariECE Patrick L. O’MalleyCHENawapom WisitpongphanECE
Mengkiat GohECE Charles T. OswaldECEMichael WongECE
Axe you . . . 
. . . thinking about law school, 
and law as a career, or 
... a veteran debater interested in 
similar activity at college level, or 
... interested in honing your 
public speaking skills?
Undergraduate 
Mock TWal Team
Then consider joining Carnegie Mellon’s Undergraduate Mock Trial Team.
The Undergraduate Mock Trial Team is open to all CMU undergraduates (not 
just members of the CMU Student Prelaw Society). CMU will host an 
invitational intercollegiate mock trial tournament on November 15, 1997. If 
interested, contact Dr. Joseph Devine at jdOx@andrew.cmu.edu.
NOTE: Prospective mock trial participants might want to consider the 
following Fall 1997 course: 66-181, Topics in Law, 6 units, Pass/Fail, WF, 
3:30-4:20 pm, Doherty Hall Room 1217. This course is essentially a 
professional writing/public speaking/oral argument course, couched in a legal/ 
courtroom context. Its theoretical focus is on the structure and rules of U.S. 
court procedure, with a heavy applied emphasis on trial procedure (e.g., the 
functions, rules and techniques of oral arguments in American courtrooms [e.g., 
opening and closing statements], the functions, rules and techniques of witness 
examinations [direct and cross-examinations]), how and why these rules vary 
with different case types (e.g., criminal vs. civil trials), etc. The course has no 
prerequisites, and is open to any undergraduate.
There will be a non-binding relationship between this course and the CMU 
November 1997 intercollegiate mock trial tournament. For example, a 
hypothetical criminal case will be a primary focus of the course, and will also 
be the case argued at this November tournament. However, enrollment in the 
course will not require participation in the mock trial tournament; conversely, 
participation in the tournament will not require enrollment in the course.
Register for this course in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 
161.
Considering Studying Abroad?
These students have and are curently spending a semester 
or more overseas.........
Start planning for 
your semester or 
year abroad:
talk to an advisor 
browse through our library 
check out our web page
CarneagiIsnaItiuaOfiT
ciIhn olfOfaenuyPcdeiTOnIInAk enwfui
CiigaT myaIaTfoIuyvdtaFEaTTnk vUfOWnIgaTH
PgfWaBnOy mIiHnNecdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
DIfEOag mFITnOOv’aTfEyvdeiTOnIInAk enwfui
cnEEfua mFIOfEmLocdoFukgaTHk CnU ZnagaTH
oEyik DyauyIaNecdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
DaTTA DyaThPDPcdtaFEaTTnk vUfOWnIgaTH
WfTh-tiiTh DTnFThoIuyvdtaFEaTTnk vUfOWnIgaTH
KUaTh-Uk DyFToIuyvdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
oTTn DgaIkDDcdvO. GaggnTk vUfOWnIgaTH
DaTfng DirrfTEFInTuycdeiTO’nggfnIk FIaTun
DnTfEn DnghaHimLovdLnInHfak DiEOa dfua
PIfTTn DiBEiTDDvdFgiInTunk NOagA
KAgn DF’InNecdVaggaTHaIk GnIraTA
efuyang FnTUfukDynr PcdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
ciA FAjhFEiTLfEOiIAvdDFBgfTk NIngaTH
oTTa GfgBnIODDcdvO. GaggnTk vUfOWnIgaTH
efhFng LFIOaHioIOvdKAiOik ca’aT
mIfaT gilfTiNDvdFgiInTunk NOagA
taFIa KaOnTDIaravd -Oiw-nT-PIilnTunk FIaTun
eaOOynU KnnhaToIOvdoFukgaTHk CnU ZnagaTH
DaIigfTn tFmLocdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
vnaT tAiTEoIOvdvnrnEOnI aO vna
CaOagfa eahnIoIOvdQFfOik PuFaHiI
orA eaIfTioIOvddirnk NOagA
CaOyaT eaIOfToIOcdoFukgaTHk CnU ZnagaTH
eaIOa eaEfnIInIoIOcdFgiInTunk NOagA
TiBfT euDaTfigDynrPcdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
GInhh efggnIPyAEfuEcdtaFEaTTnk vUfOWnIgaTH
cnTTffnI eiiInDynr PcdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
vFTnOIa daThIajNecdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
Wfggfar diEEPDPcdtaFEaTTnk vUfOWnIgaTH
Wfggfar vraAHaNecdeaHIfHk v’afT
ciyT vUnnTnADvvOtiTHiTk PThgaTH
Takaki TajfraoIuyvdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
Pla TaIBnggoIOcdPaIfEk FIaTun
DaT TfEuygnIPuiTcdvnrnEOnI aO vna
TfffaTA TInTODIaraeFoouuIak GyaTa
eaOOynU UThnIeaOyvdvOIaEBiFIhk FIaTun
DiThjFT WiToIuyvdtaFEaTTnk vUfOWnIgaTH
PnOnI WAgfnDIaracdtiTHiTk PThgaTH
mAFThHiT siioIuyvdtaFEaTTnk vUfOWnIgaTH
Taartn Na ewsnEwdsrNwdi oSftdsrNw 
3rd Floor Warner Hall 
bboard: academlc.abroad.official 
http://www.cmu.edu/lntl-ed/
Eva Mergner 
Study Abroad Advisor 
email: em43@andrew.cmu.edu 
Telephone: 8-4969

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V5
uoTspflTN& t88T6Td_l po8tf6p 
agu Nfd^phdfr fpm—_dNTtol
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
It may come as a surprise 
that CMU, a campus in love 
with referring to everything as 
an acronym or an arcane se­
quence of numbers, does not 
have the monopoly on the name 
“CMU” — in fact the name be­
longs to another.
Because of legal decisions 
made in the ’80s, which gave 
Central Michigan University
the rights to “CMU,” the Uni­
versity has recently created 
new policies to enforce proper 
usage of the acronym.
Orientation Counselors and 
Resident Assistants were edu­
cated about the change in policy 
during orientation week in or­
der to prevent any misuse of 
the logo on posters or T-shirts.
Students recieved a pamphet 
this summer that outlines the 
guideline for using “CMU.”
In the next few weeks, the 
University will publish official 
guidelines that the campus
community can refer to in the 
future.
“We would like students to be 
in touch with us or Jay (Marano, 
the University Licensing Coordi­
nator) if they want to use mer­
chandise bearing the Carnegie 
Mellon name and we would be 
able to work with them so that 
they could produce an appropri­
ate product,” said Don Hale, Vice 
President of University Relations.
“There is no requirement for 
student organizations to work
through us,” saidHale.
Jay Marano, University Licens­
ing Coordinator, said the policy 
attempts to discourage students 
from using the acronym. “Most 
people outside of Western Penn­
sylvania don’t know what it 
stands for,” he said.
“When you use Carnegie Mellon 
[instead of CMU], it’s a lot stron­
ger and it’s clear that you’re talk­
ing about one of the top universi­
ties in the country,” said Hale.
Central Michigan University 
allows Carnegie Mellon to use 
“CMU” since the schools are re­
gionally separated.
“[It] was not perceived to be a 
problem since it is unlikely that 
anyone would be confused,” said 
Fran Dysinger, the Licensing 
Coordinator for Central Michi­
gan University.
Carnegie Mellon submitted 
an application to the United 
States Patent and Trademark 
Office to register the acronym 
along with the words 
‘Carnegie Mellon’ in Decem­
ber of 1987.
Central Michigan 
University won the 
rights to the name 
because it was 
founded in 1959, 
eight years before 
Carnegie Mellon.
In 1967, The 
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology merged 
with the Mellon In­
stitute for Industrial 
Research and be­
came C arnegie Mellon Univer­
sity.
Carnegie Mellon registered 
the Carnegie Mellon Symbol, 
and the “My Heart Is In The 
Work” Carnegie Tech Symbol 
in 1989.
“The first year I was here 
(Fall 1995) we began licens­
ing suppliers that sold logo 
merchandise to the Univer­
sity Shoppe, now anyone 
wanting to use our identity 
marks must work though the 
Trademark Licensing Office,” 
said Marano.
“When you use Carnegie Mellon [instead 
of CMU], it’s a lot stronger and it’s clear 
that you’re talking about one of top uni­
versities in the country. ”
— Don Hale
vice president of University Relations
atolNf—6NTto Ndrpl tspf a—N
PURNELL, from page 1
begin moving dirt, and on the 
western side of the Cut there will 
be construction trailers.” 
Murphy has been working out 
the details of how much the con­
struction is disrupting the traf­
fic flow on campus and how it 
can be managed.
The walkway from Warner to 
Doherty will be closed starting in 
late September and people will 
have to walk through the Univer­
sity Center loggia for a year or 
more. Jay Carson, director of de­
velopment for Arts & Humani­
ties said, “[It is] a temporary in­
convenience for a world class im­
provement.”
Tellers said that there will be a 
loss of parking in the lot next to 
Warner Hall and the lot next to 
the Student Center. “We are plan­
ning a project to add spaces to 
Morewood parking lot. That’s how 
we would hope to recover those
spaces,” said Tellers.
Another aspect of the construc- 
tion of the building is the 
fundraising. According to 
Prekop, there are still four mil­
lion dollars to be raised for the 
Purnell Center.
To cover this cost, there are 
plans to sell smaller sized gifts, 
such as naming seats in the the­
ater or rooms in the Purnell Cen­
ter.
There will also be another ben­
efit in the same vein as the Los 
Angeles Gala last spring. This 
event is slated for the spring of
1998, according to Carson, but 
no details have been formulated 
at this time.
“We’re trying to have video 
images on our Web pages,” said 
Carson. “We have people in other 
cities... interested, but they can’t 
get here [to see the construction]. 
By putting pictures on our Web 
page, it’s a way to bring Oakland
to people.”
Other fundraising activities 
include bringing potential donors 
to the site, or in some cases, hav­
ing President Cohon visit them.
“President Cohon has ex­
pressed interest in fundraising 
right from the start .... The De­
velopment Division has put to­
gether a list of the first hundred 
people that the president needs 
to meet, and a number of poten­
tial donors are included in this 
list,” said Carson. “He visited two 
executives in downtown Pitts­
burgh the second full day that he 
was on campus.”
Murphy will be keeping admin­
istrators up to date with construc­
tion progress through bi-weekly 
newsletters and meetings. The 
first scheduled fundraising ac­
tivity is the performance of 
Loveletters, a play by Michael 
Tucker and Jill Eikenberry, on 
October 3rd and 4th.
Crime and Incident Report
arian bmitn/1 arcan Knoto statT
Construction for the Purnell Center for the Arts is underway on the Cut parallel to the University Center.
8/20 THEFT, 6:26 pm — A 
brother in a fraternity came to 
the Campus Police Office to re­
port that his bicycle had just been 
stolen. He had been in his frater­
nity watching television. Later 
on that evening, he was walking 
down Morewood Avenue and saw 
the same black male riding his 
pink and chrome bike. He gave 
chase but was hampered by 
change in his pocket and traffic, 
and the speedy bicycle rider got 
away. At this point the victim 
came to the police office. Campus 
police searched the area, but were 
unsuccessful in locating the actor 
or the bike.
8/20 INJURY, 2:09 pm - A 
police officer returned to the Cam­
pus Police Office from his uni­
formed traffic detail and reported
to another police officer that he 
had tripped between the side­
walk and the Morewood Circle 
and fell on his hands and knees. 
No severe injuries were sustained 
on the fall, and the officer re­
quired no medical attention but 
did request that an incident re­
port document the event.
8/19 MAINTENANCE, 6:27 
pm - A complainant at the Pitts­
burgh Technology Center in­
formed Campus Police that a 
glass pipe that vents acid waste 
had burst and that there was 
glass on the floor.
The reason for the minor ex­
plosion is unknown. No acid 
dripped to the floor.
8/24 THEFT, 1:32 am - A stu­
dent from the University of Pitts­
burgh, who visits friends at CMU 
often, noticed a bulletin concern­
ing the person who has been gain­
ing access to student apartments 
at Fairfax.
He called Campus Police to re­
port that he, too, had been a vic­
tim of the same person. He then 
revealed the following. He first 
met the man, who claims to be 
called “Louis,” outside his apart­
ment.
The man asked for a Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh basketball 
schedule, and to use the restroom. 
The caller let him in, but did not 
pay attention to “Louis” while in 
the apartment, and later discov­
ered $60.00 missing from his 
wallet. “Louis” continued to drop 
by periodically to the point of 
annoyance.
When the caller asked “Louis”
about the money, he said that 
he didn’t take it and that there 
are a lot of people around who 
steal from all the apartments 
in the area.
The day that he called Cam­
pus Police, the caller told 
“Louis” that he was ending their 
friendship and wanted no con­
tact with him whatsoever. 
“Louis” never gave the caller a 
phone number, but he did know 
of a few of the places that he 
frequented and he reported 
them to Campus Police.
8/30 THEFT, 1:55 am - A 
student was seen walking alone 
along Morewood Avenue. But 
all was not well, for the student 
held under his arm a “Bath­
room Closed” sign. It was the 
type of sign used by CPS as the
restrooms are being cleaned.
The student was stopped and 
identified. He said he took it 
from the first floor of the Uni­
versity Center. The sign was 
confiscated and the student was 
issued an internal citation.
8/28 INJURY, 5:14 am - A 
CPS supervisor phoned the dis­
patcher to inform him that one 
of his employees was bitten by 
insects, possibly mosquitoes, 
while emptying trash at the 
Doherty Hall loading dock. 
When he emptied the trash into 
the dumpster, a swarm of what 
might have been mosquitoes 
flew out. One bit him on the lip 
which became swollen. He also 
said that earlier in the week 
the same thing had happened. 
EMS advised the victim to seek
medical attention because the 
bite was near his mouth. He 
was transported to Mercy 
Hospital.
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior to 
release.
• Only three people on The Tartan 
staff see the reports: the Editor-in- 
Chief the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter typing the report.
• All personal names of complain­
ants, victims, suspects, andfratemity 
names are omitted from the printed 
report. Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details are given only in the 
context of complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
pears in the report.
Compiled by 
Ryan Schilling
Your Folks Are Coming For 
The Weekend? Not A Problem.
They Can Stay With Us. We have an unbeat­
able location with romantic river and skyline views, room service and a health club.
I We'll give your parents everything they want in a hotel at this very special 
Student/Faculty Rate; so they won't spend so much time worrying about 
I you...or your friends...or your place. For reservations, call your professional 
travel agent, 1-800-HILTONS or the Pittsburgh Hilton and Towers at 412-391 -4600. Ask 
for the Collegiate Rate.
Pittsburgh
Gateway Center 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
412-391-4600—
and Towers
IUUU.yfOOiT.uir N OfTnI lagfH fiI EOaAE OyIiFhy 12/30/97. tfrfOnH alafgaBfgfOA. oHlaTun InEnIlaOfiTE InqFfInH. daOn HinE TiO fTugFHn Oaw iI hIaOFfOfnE aTH HinE 
TiO a’’gA Oi rnnOfThEk uiTlnTOfiTEk hIiF’E iI iOynI ’IiriOfiTag igfnIE aTH fE EFBjnuO Oi uyaThn UfOyiFO TiOfun. Tyn LfgOiT gihi aTH gihiOA’n aIn InhfEOnInH 
OIaHnraIkE if LfgOiT LiOngE DiI’iIaOfiT. 01997 LfgOiT LiOngE.
ctpl 1t—f gTo^ Id6p \TNS 7o^_pll "tllTRT_TNTpl3
Would you like to n—helNdfN your career by tapping into the talents of professionals 
trained in the latest technologies and methodologies?
Do you want to help design and build hTllTtoA6fTNT6d_ client/server applications using 
technologies from industry leaders like Microsoft, Intel, IBM, and FileNet?
Would you like to edfNT6TedNp in teams providing business consulting and enterprise
world-class packaged software solutions?
Are you ready for an environment that po6t—fdmpl teamwork, change, and
entrepreneurship?
Do you want to learn how your education, experiences and work environment blend into 
a —oTv—p fp_dNTtolSTe called WIN3 ... you win, our clients win, and Crowe Chizek wins?
If you're a well-qualified individual majoring in athe—Npf W6Tpo6p w 7_p6NfT6d_ i 
athe—Npf 7omToppfTom w L—lTopll D^hToTlNfdNTto © 9o8tfhdNTto i cp6TlTto
W&lNphl
See us on campus for:
/ Information Session — 9/23 at 7:00 p.m.
/ Technical Opportunities Conference — 9/25 
/ Business Opportunities Conference — 9/26 
/ Information Session — 10/8 at 7:00 p.m.
a member Horwath International 
Crowe Chizek and Co. LLP
You'll want to talk to us!
CROW E CHIZEK
\\\«6ft\p6STKpr«6thbl6mfp6f—TN
80 *2 __
01/00 33-097-00 œcIffli'-GO GBC Ei

---------------------------------------------------

Get AT&T One Rate. FREE. 
And don’t worry about the time or the distance.
free
from
AT&T
If you live off campus, choose AT&T Long Distance and sign up for AT&T 
One Rate. Free. You'll also get a free one-year membership to Student 
Advantage®—the largest student discount program ever.
• AT&T One Rate: only 1551 a minute on calls from home—to anybody, 
anytime, anywhere in the U.S.
• Student Advantage: use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off 
every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and 
national sponsors—like Kinko'sf Tower Records® and Amtrak?
Live off campus? Get AT&T One Rate 
and a Student Advantage membership. FREE.
Call 1-800-878- 3 8 72
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html
It’s all within your reach.D.i.
Student Advantage offer valid for AT&T Residential Long Distance customers. ©1997 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V
L—fm_df sT6NThTKpl 
dedfNhpoN fplT^poNl
CRIME, from page 1
On another occasion, he told 
a first-year student and resi­
dent of Fairfax that his name 
was James, and convinced her 
to let him use her phone.
Her roommate, Dorian Pe­
ters, a bachelor of the humani­
ties and arts major and resi­
dent assistant on the sixth floor 
of Fairfax, said the perpetrator 
has made harassing phone calls 
to them on several occasions 
since then. When Peters asked
other dormitories and off-cam­
pus housing facilities. They are 
also offering a theffc-prevention 
service known as Operation ID.
At the request of a resident 
assistant, officers will visit a 
particular floor or area and en­
grave driver’s license numbers 
on students’ belongings. Cam­
pus Police then keeps a record 
of each item and provides stu­
dents with stickers notifying po­
tential thieves that their be­
longings have been registered.
“Everyone's a prime target. Lock 
your doors and don't be afraid to be 
rude to someone. ”
— Dorian Peters, junior BHA major
him to stop calling, he re­
sponded with profanity. “I think 
it’s just living on a college cam­
pus,” Peters said. “Everyone’s 
a prime target. Lock your doors 
and don’t be afraid to be rude to 
someone.”
On Thursday night, Campus 
Police, in conjunction with resi­
dent assistants in Fairfax, held 
a crime prevention program to 
raise student awareness. It is 
the first security program cam­
pus police have conducted for a 
particular building, but they 
are encouraging student staff 
to organize similar meetings in
“They’re not stealing it to use 
it,” Officer Bernarding says. 
“They’re stealing it to sell it, 
and this makes it harder to sell.”
Campus Police regularly pa­
trol all off-campus apartment 
buildings. Residents in Fairfax 
and Webster have been notified 
of the situation and encouraged 
to report any suspicious activ­
ity as quickly as possible.
Detective Mialki of the cam­
pus bureau of investigation said, 
“Even if we only get a few clues 
from each case, we can get 20 
clues from several reports and 
enough to catch the guy.”
Kappa Sigma keeps house on quad
KAPPA SIGMA, from page 1
The fraternity also lost its char­
ter in a limited capacity after the 
incident. As a result, the frater­
nities national governing body, 
the Alumni Board of Control 
(ABC), has been monitoring the 
activities of the house and will do 
so until September 20,1998. The 
fraternity will be regaining its 
charter within the next two to six 
weeks.
“Our living room feels empty 
because our charter’s not on the 
wall,” said Knoop.
Although the brothers are not 
allowed to throw parties in the 
house, they are allowed to have 
small events for rush. “While we 
did mess up, [university officials] 
have been gracious enough to al­
low us to rush. They understand 
our need to keep our numbers 
going,” said Knoop.
The brothers submitted a list of 
possible events that they wanted
to hold to Dean Allison, coordina­
tor of Greek Affairs for Student 
Life, who approved some items 
on the list. Murphy said, “Any 
restrictions on the house should 
not preclude the organization 
from continuing in existence. To 
the contrary, the fraternity has 
committed to pledging a class 
dedicated to the highest ideals of 
the organization.”
Kappa Sigma plans on holding 
rush activities every night like 
the other houses on the quad al­
though they will be restricted to 
15 rushees per event. Rushees 
must be on a guest list to enter 
the house. One traditional event 
that the house has planned for 
this week is the Kappa Sigma 
Men’s Club where brothers and 
rushees play darts, pool, and 
cards.
They are also planning events 
such as dinner in a restaurant, 
watching sporting events, and
paintball. The brothers are cur­
rently holding barbecues by the 
fence during the week from 11:30 
to 1:30. “We’re still getting things 
straightened out with the Uni­
versity, seeing what’s okay and 
what’s not,” said Knoop.
The brothers are expecting a 
lower number of rushees than 
their past averages of 10-15. The 
house currently has 35 active 
brothers. “[The restrictions] are 
definitely going to hurt a little 
bit. But we’re just going to find 
new rush tactics,” said Knoop.
Murphy said, “Kappa Sigma 
has a long and positive tradition 
on this campus, and I have every 
expectation that the current lead­
ership and brotherhood will main­
tain that.”
To fulfill the community ser­
vice, requirements, the brothers 
are volunteering their time to the 
house philanthropy, Habitat for 
Humanity, each weekend.
The house has also drafted a 
letter to the community explain­
ing the incident and its repercus­
sions. “We feel that it’s some­
thing we should do. We don’t want 
any other organization to go 
through that. It’s a tough experi­
ence to go through, and I learned 
a lot from it,” Knoop said.
“We’re dealing with the pun­
ishment ... It’s been tough to ac­
cept because it’s not how we used 
to be. But it’s good because we’re 
still on campus. I personally am 
glad that the University allowed 
us to stay on,” said Knoop.
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an 
error, please contact Editor-In-Chief Sharmila Venkatasubban at 
tartan@andre w. emu. edu.
Brian Smith/ Tartan Photo Staff 
A brother of Kappa Sigma take his turn gaurdingthe Fence. Barbecues 
by the Fence are useful for meeting prospective rushees.
Mewiorabilia
Collectable* 'f LPW 
V« deoA
PoA,crA 10-5PM
Holiday Im« Select 
K/V/i 100 JLtffton Ave.
“'7 Oakland
U.&WlR.p
(l Biocit front 
Cathedral of Learning)
692-6200
<n AMPHITHEATRE W
ON THE SHORE AT STATION SQUARE « PITTSBURGH, PAKingsFflmiLYRESTfflJMIITSHIV
b D Pittsburgh's Original Oktoberfest / JL
DANK PROCEEDS BENEFIT D.A.N.K. DANK<jH>r A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION
Volumleoe9 2lu,Iusml1,lu P iI,su toob r gIml 
i,I1sl hsIk,uplsc, r Aeuh,lumc Bm,IgsIu,l
Featuring German Band
"Original Schurwald 
Musikanten"
(Friday Night)
ADMISSION 
$6.00
SENIOR CITIZENS 
& STUDENTS 
$4.00 !!!
Industrial Management
Dean’s List 
Spring 1997
Suzi Rahima Abd Rahim*
Seniors
Douglas Hudson*Vijay Nayak*
Raymond Ardire*Jeffrey Hugo*Roshini Nibbs*
Christa BowerDana Iacobucci*Quang Ong*
Leslie Brown*Kenneth Kraemer*Noritoshi Sano*
Katherine ChangSharada KrishnappaChintan Shah*
Samuel ChonTaimoor LabibColin Shaunnesey
H. Evrem DamarKhanh Lan Lam*Craig Snethen*
Timothy Faulkner*Alan Linton*Courtney Spence
Dominick Frollini*Larissa Longnecker*Lance Thomas
Kelly GaitensKatrina Lutz*Danny Ting*
Christine Halberstadt*Kelley McCullough*Frank Triggiani, Jr.
Robert Hamady*Melissa MeyersFrançoise Vielot*
Daphne Harris*Cem Mimaroglu*Patricia Yang*
Kristine Hinrichs*Jeffrey MortonCalvin Yao*
Juniors
Raphael AguirreAlexey KharitonovRobb Murray*
Marcel AlexandrovichChae KimBrian Rhee
John Bae*Grace KimKenneth Tateosian*
Daniel BruceJohn KrughZakarij Thomas*
Hsiang-TingChenlngrid LaiKimberly Umeda
Peggy Chiu*Tadeo Leal*Chauncey Upson
Jessica ConnollyKenneth Lychak*Victor Villones*
Yevgenia Fink*Elias Mablekos*Paranee Vimolvanich*
Chad HarrisonDavid Malli*Javier Gracia*
Kavin Hetrakul*Mohd Azrul Mohd FairuzChad Winterfield
Nancy Ho*Karim MuriTze-Yun Yip
Sameer Karin* 
Inigo Amoribieta*
Sophmores
Matthew EhrensMichael Stango
Maureen Bartek*Jason Funke*Walter Tang
Dashiell Boyer-Olson*Tamera GabrielAchira Taulananda*
Christopher Butsko*Ayse GoksuShailesh Trivedi*
Ashok Chachra*Fern LeeJustin Wade*
Wing-Chun ChoMan Ching LoChin-Chiang Wang
Lin DaiWing LoLatoya Williams*
Kyle Dupre*Amit ShethRandall Woyicki
Eric Alarcon
Freshmen
Deeya KocharGregory Schohn
Max Belenitsky*Apurva Kothari*Steven Selikoff*
Gaurav Choski*Kenneth KwalikSharif Siddqui*
Ryan Christian*Jarrett Larochelle*Benjamin Snyder
Thomas Colan*Carey Lefkowitz*William Spurgeon*
Jane Cormier*Suneer Maheshwary*Erin Stapelfeld
Neeraj Deorah*David MatsumotoAngela Sun
Jamie FritschShilpa MhaskarNaveen Surana*
Nalini GargNorman MokPia Talukar*
Siddharth Gejji*Richard Parker*Benjamin Van Mater
Geoffrey Go*Mayank PatodiaBoluo Yang*
Uday GuptaAndrew Peak*Satoshi Yano
Paul Jacobs*Rajen Raheja*Adi Zuckerman
Chamaimas KamasutaAnna Reszetucha*
*High Honors
COME RAIN OR SHINE • ALL ACTIVITIES UNDER THE TENT 
GROUP SALES & MORE INFORMATION
281-2098 • 43,9-8898 • 232-6200

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
CMU suicide rates increase
Carnegie Mellon University2 September 1997
.Sp 2uL 6fpdNpl 
l6Sp^—_Tom eftR_phl
Are you back into the swing of 
things? Has your routine for the 
semester settled in yet? Yes? 
Good. But don’t get too comfort­
able, because chances are your 
schedule will change (if it hasn’t 
already) thanks to much mud­
dling on the part of The HUB. 
This semester, The HUB created 
many scheduling dilemmas for 
students because of overcrowded 
classes, last-minute time and 
room changes, and a failure to 
accurately inform students about 
when and where their classes will 
take place.
While The HUB has tried to 
address problems of inefficiency 
in the last few years, lack of com­
munication between colleges, stu­
dents, and administrative groups 
continually prohibits any possible 
improvement.
Many students leave their dorm 
rooms 15 minutes early and walk 
across campus in order to be on 
time for their first class, only to 
find that their class has been 
moved to an unknown location. 
While room shifts usually hap­
pen because professors make 
changes to class sizes over the 
summer, The HUB’s inability to 
deal with such routine procedures 
causes a great deal of inconve­
nience on the first day of class — 
inconvenience that can be easily 
avoided.
It is equally traumatic to sign 
up for a course, buy the books, 
hear your name on the roster and 
then find out that you can no
longer take the class because The 
HUB overbooked it by 20 people. 
While juniors and seniors are gen­
erally safeguarded against this 
situation, first-years and sopho­
mores are open game.
Freshmen register for classes 
over the summer and class sched­
ules are usually one of the only 
“sure things” until the first se­
mester is over. To find out at the 
last minute that you’ve been 
kicked out of a class adds stress to 
an already demanding time for 
first-years.
Every April, students spend a 
week (in many cases, even longer) 
working out a schedule for the 
next semester. They don’t just 
create schedules; they map out 
their classes for the next four 
years. When a conflict occurs, stu­
dents have to rethink their mas­
ter plan, and at CMU, where stu­
dents are told to plan out their 
careers before they even get here, 
misscheduling can wreak havoc.
If it seems unrealistic to expect 
an accurate schedule to arrive in 
the mail before classes begin, then 
The HUB should at least try to 
keep their web site updated 
throughout the fir st week of school 
so students have easy access to 
any changes that take place. With 
electronic registration hovering 
in the near future, The HUB needs 
to get its act together, possibly by 
informing students of changes via 
email. By opening up lines of com­
munication many misscheduling 
dilemmas can be prevented.
yTflNA&pdfl Rpop8TN 
8fth GfTpoNdNTto P¦V
To the class of2001, CMU is not 
as intimidating as one might ex­
pect due to the success of the ’97 
Orientation program.
Orientation Counselors (OC’s) 
and RA’s alike greeted the incom­
ing first-year students on their 
first day on campus, and stayed 
with them right up until the first 
day of classes, effectively “hold­
ing the entering students’ hands” 
in this difficult and adjustment­
intensive period.
The orientation program, orga­
nized and administered mainly 
by students, is a week-long ven­
ture in educating, preparing, and 
orienting students to the CMU 
way-of-life. Head Orientation 
Counselors, or HOC’s, begin the 
planning process in October — a 
full ten months in advance. They 
make arrangements, plan events, 
interview, hire, and train staff in 
preparation for Orientation week. 
The HOC’s are to be commended 
not only for their dedication and 
perseverance in the program, but 
for the excellent job they do in a 
seemingly thankless role.
CMU should also commend OC’s 
for their work. Each OC must 
complete a comprehensive train­
ing program that prepares them 
for orienting new students with 
every imaginable aspect of the 
campus.
To some extent, CMU’s Orien­
tation Program goes vastly unap­
preciated. At many similar 
schools, orientation consists of a
Neil Babra/Tartan Art StaffEfTNpf t88pfl !d^sT6pP Nt 8fplShpo
day’s visit in June or July for a 
walking tour, a free lunch, and a 
packet of materials. This ritual is 
typically performed with some 
small fraction of the entering class 
— perhaps a group of 100. Stu­
dent Life does not take the “easy 
way” out; CMU’s program is a 
more intense but also a more ef­
fective tool for welcoming stu­
dents.
The orientation process is evolv­
ing to become a year-long process. 
Programs such as Winter Orien­
tation and Dimensions seminars 
(which meet regularly through­
out the year), will extend the as­
similation and adjustment period 
for freshman. These features fur­
ther distinguish CMU’s orienta­
tion program from those of other 
similar and larger schools, and 
make the program a greater asset 
to the campus community.
New or improved programs fur­
ther enhanced Orientation 1997. 
The annual convocation has 
evolved to a full-fledged ceremony, 
complete with dress attire and 
pomp and circumstance. This in­
spiring program forms a figura­
tive bookend to a student’s educa­
tion — the other bookend being 
commencement to follow in four 
years.
CMU is not a simple or 
unintimidating place. However, the 
Orientation 1997 makes our Uni­
versity far more welcoming, and 
gives entering students a fine foun­
dation on which to build success.
Rebecca Fribush
So, freshmen, no doubt you’re posi­
tively ecstatic about finishing your first 
two weeks at CMU. You’ve survived a 
seemingly endless round of orientation 
icebreaker games, learned the names of 
at least a few? people who aren’t yourself, 
and figured out where your classes are. 
Too bad the hard part is just beginning.
As someone who’s no longer a fresh­
man, it’s my duty to drop pearls of wis­
dom and warning at the waiting feet of 
each and every one of you. Either that, or 
shove your heads into the nearest toilet 
and force you to sing the CMU alma 
mater while gargling toilet water. Er, 
let’s go with the advice, I think.
First thing to remember: you’re in 
Pittsburgh, so try and stay inside as 
much as possible. Perhaps you were 
seduced by the fact that most of the 
CMU brochures have the requisite pic­
tures of students laughing merrily on 
lush green sunlit carpets of grass into 
thinking that you’d while away many of 
your afternoons doing just that.
But the sad truth is that it’s always 
either raining, about to rain, or in the 
middle of a very convincing imitation of 
a rainstorm. The Pittsburgh sky is about 
as damp and gray and tired as an old 
piece of chewing gum. You’ll get used to 
it eventually.
I’d love to drop helpful hints about 
how to find your way through some of 
CMU’s more confusing academic build­
ings, but I’m afraid that’s impossible. 
Just don’t go into Wean Hall or the CFA 
building without a trained guide. Other­
wise, you may never come out. I also 
can’t tell you what combination of prayers 
and threats of violence will actually get 
the lousy dryers in the dorms to dry
laundry. Maybe you should take your 
clothes outside and let them dry in the 
sun. Wait, this is Pittsburgh. There is no 
sun. Ummm, find a bathroom with one 
of those sanitary hot air dryers, and 
stick your clothes under it.
You realize you’re not going to be get­
ting any sleep at night, right? Odds are 
that, no matter how fascinating your 
subject matter or how cool your teach­
ers, your classes will constitute the bulk 
of your sleeping time. Even those tiny 
seminar classes, small enough that you 
don’t have to be paranoid to think the 
professor spends a good chunk of time
watching your ____________________
every move, are 
no sure hedge 
against exhaus­
tion. This is why 
it’s absolutely es­
sential to ac­
quaint yourself 
with proper
class-napping ____________________
procedures. .....".......11......."™B
They’re the most basic thing you need to 
know for success at CMU, except possi­
bly for email.
Try this. Turn the volume of your 
alarm dovm a notch every day.
Within a week, the. music should be 
completely silent and you should be 
bounding cheerily out of bed every morn­
ing without any stimulus besides the 
soft click of the alarm mechanism turn­
ing on. Great. Now you’re prepared to 
wake up at the least provocation in cer­
tain stressful classroom situations. Like 
if the professor has just directed a ques­
tion or a glare your way. Next on the 
agenda: sleeping while sitting up in a 
hard plastic chair.
You might even want to try staying 
awake in class once in a while. Not only 
will you have priceless opportunities to 
ensure that the professor sees you with 
eyes open, but you may actually find
yourself involved in what’s going on. 
Classes have this way of becoming inter­
esting when you least expect it.
CMU students don’t like to admit t,o 
this because we’re the kind of masochis­
tic wackos who actually enjoy our repu­
tations as the hardest-driven, most work- 
obsessed human Vivarin advertisements 
this side of MIT, but we do know how to 
have fun. You don’t think we get so little 
sleep outside of class because we’re do­
ing homework all the time, do you? We 
do parties and late-night dinners and 
malicious gossip and games of find-the- 
sexual-innuendo-in-anything-anyone-
“...we’re ... wackos who actually 
enjoy our reputations as ... the 
most work-obsessed human Vivarin 
advertisements this side of MIT, but 
we do know how to have fun. ”
says and long discussions about noth-: 
ing. The best piece of advice I can giv^ 
you is to force yourself to have fun every 
so often. A person can do only so many 
coding assignments or write so man$ 
brilliantly analytical essays without! 
cracking. I mean it.
If you don’t let yourself relax and have 
fun once in a while, you could find 
yourself carrying on meaningful -con­
versations with your three-ring binder 
and leaving out bits of cheese for your 
computer mouse before the semester 
is over. If you do, you can expect to 
stave off the signs of dementia until at 
least the beginning of sophomore year.; 
Welcome to CMU.
Becca Fribush is a sophomore social 
history major. She was a freshman at 
one time or another. In fact, she’s still 
recovering.
u"W lNfTrpl ^t\o \tfrpfl \TNS 6toNfd6N
James Stepanek
Just last week a major 
event in labor relations 
ended. The Teamsters 
Union had called a strike by 
UPS employees, and a deal 
was finally hammered out at the bargaining table. Consider­
ing that in this action there were three parties involved, it 
seems odd that the conclusion resulted in two of them losing.
OK, you’re going to be saying, “What’s that Stepanek talking 
about? The union won.” Well yes, the Teamsters Union did 
win. However, the individual workers at UPS lost. The extent 
to which their union management shafted them is most amaz­
ing, especially since the way people have trumpeted this as a 
great win for labor.
First off I have to explain why the strike occurred. There are 
two basic reasons. The first is that at UPS there are primarily 
two types of line workers. There are the drivers, who are the 
well paid ($20/hour), full-time employees, and the people who 
do the sorting arid loading, who are the lower salary ($8), part- 
time workers who do, however, get benefits. The union went on 
strike to eliminate the part-time positions and create more 
full- time positions, with a better salary. Well, that’s just one 
reason. The other main reason was that UPS wanted to get the 
workers’ pension plan out of the Teamsters “pay as you go” 
pension plan, and the Teamsters HQ just couldn’t have that.
Let me list what the strike results have been. UPS has lost 
an estimated $600 million (Wall Street Journal 8/20/97) in 
business and had to sign a new contract. This contract turned 
a whole bunch of part-time workers into a lesser number of 
full-time workers with better pay ($ 12/hour after five years). 
Also a number of new full-time positions are to be created 
through attrition and the hopeful expansion of business, 
which with the effects of the strike are likely to be overly 
optimistic. There were also pay increases negotiated, but these
are on the order of inflation (for the full-time people; the 
part-timers who move into the new full-time jobs do better) 
and will barely cover the lost wages suffered during the 
strike.
Of course, this great hoopla about new jobs, and the 
elimination of some of the “evil” part-time positions fails to 
mention that UPS estimates it will have to cut 15,000jobs to 
make up for lost business. This doesn’t even address how 
many people will get screwed when their part-time job 
becomes full-time, and they don’t have the time. Real big 
win, eh? A lucky 10,000 get some more hours, while 15,000 
other people get the shaft.
Also, as the Teamsters’ leaders probably most valued, the 
pension plan stays in union hands. This is a really big loss for 
the workers since the current plan consists of using current 
payments to pay pension liabilities. Due to mismanage: 
ment, the Teamsters pension plan has a large shortfall, and 
the UPS workers are likely to take a hit on their retirement 
money. This would not have occurred if UPS had taken over 
the retirement funds.
The extent to which the union screwed the workers hasn’t 
even been fully addressed above. The workers also had to go 
on strike for almost no benefit to themselves. The contract 
which UPS had offered them before the strike was pretty 
damn good, but Teamsters National HQ denied it a chance 
at a vote. The original UPS proposal involved creating 
11,000 full-time positions for the part-time workers — an 
additional 1,000 jobs, and had the proposed 10,000 further 
through growth and attrition, just as in the present contract. 
This initial contract also included a hefty profit sharing 
bonus ($3,060), and another offered in two years, but a lower 
salary increase. The current contract is slightly more money 
(about $400 per year), but the way in which the pension fund
Please see UPS, page 9

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V¦
Writers debate fairness of college rankings
’—d_TN& 6dootN Rp v—doNT8Tp^I.S. News dllTlNl lN—^poNl
Jenny Garcia de Osuna
; For a decade now, students and par­
ents have been anxiously opening up the 
yearly U.S. News and World Report’s 
Best Colleges list to serve as an objective 
guide in choosing which colleges to con­
sider. And as surely as the results come 
in, the heavy debate over the report’s 
accuracy in judging the universities 
¦; begins.
This year’s report lists CMU as one of 
the top 25 universities in the nation, a 
jump from last year’s number 28. And, 
as usual, we boast about our fine pro­
gram this year and blame last year’s 
lower ranking on U.S. News’ 
inaccuracy .The fact remains that the 
magazine never claims to be the “be all, 
end all” of college rankings and has 
never claimed to survey every aspect of 
every university.
Instead they state that their goal is to 
serve as a tool for students who need as 
much information as possible to make 
a guess as to where they might apply.
The publication serves as an efficient 
measure of comparison concerning im­
portant aspects such as academic repu­
tation, retention and graduation rates, 
faculty and financial resources, student 
selectivity, and others. They not only 
survey the 1,400 universities involved, 
but also consult institutions such as the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association, 
Moody’s Investment Services, and the 
U.S. Department of Education, to name 
a few. Those involved with the report 
certainly do their homework. This al- 
j lows students to easily compare the dif­
ferent aspects of the universities, facts 
; not easily available through other means.
The debate seems even more ridicu­
lous considering that students and par­
ents do not refer only to U.S. News to 
make application decisions, but to nu­
merous other sources — publications 
like Peterson’s Guide to Four Year Col­
leges and books surveying real-time stu­
dent opinion on various campuses. In­
terviews, visiting the school, and per­
sonal preferences toward location, price, 
size, public vs. private, etc. also lessen 
the emphasis on U.S. News.
The debate considers whether or not 
universities should even participate in 
such a project. Lately, a few universities
Ellen Beldner
The results are in, and once again, 
CMU is one of the nation’s 25 best uni­
versities. We sit primly as number 23, 
sharing our spot on U.S. News & World
have attempted to block themselves from 
these rankings, as if the report is some 
sort of unfair collegiate horse race for 
some invisible award instead of simply a 
service to the college-bound. To boycott 
U.S. News and World Report’s survey 
would solve nothing.
The publication serves only as an effi­
cient standard to judge the numerous 
universities in the nation, to give the 
public a general idea of what the univer­
sities offer. The opposing universities 
need to get rid of their egos and allow 
any measure that may help students 
through the complex decision of where 
to spend obscene amounts of money for 
the next four years.
Jenny Garcia de Osuna is Forum’s 
editor. She welcomes responsible replies 
to her column.
James Mojonier/Tartan Junior Staff
Report’s 1998 Best Colleges list with 
Tufts, Berkeley, and Michigan.
And surely, thousands of high school 
seniors across the country are snapping 
up the magazine as they decide which 
colleges and universities to apply to this 
fall. Guidance counselors tear out the 
rankings and pin them to bulletin boards; 
university administrations hold their 
breath as they open the press release 
from U.S. News to see if their school is 
among the elite or the downtrodden.
Interestingly enough, U.S. News 
claims on its online explanation of the 
rankings that “Our ultimate goal is not 
to give an absolute measure of the best 
colleges for any and all students, but... 
a set of tools to help them make a com­
plex decision.” This stunning piece of 
intellectual bunk conflicts entirely with 
what the editors of the magazine must
surely know — the majority of people 
who study the rankings take the word of 
the magazine as law.
The U.S. News’ survey has a variety of 
factors which it considers while ranking 
schools. For example, 25 percent of each 
school’s overall rank is determined by 
what U.S. News calls “Academic Repu­
tation.” The president, provost, and dean 
of admissions at each school in the 
rankings are surveyed. However, only 
62 percent of the officials polled re­
sponded to the survey, and statistically, 
a “reader response” poll is not a valid 
way of gathering statistical data since 
poll participants will likely not form a 
representative sample of the population 
in question.
U.S. News includes dozens of other 
suspect factors and assumptions with 
its rankings. Does class size determine 
how much students learn or how well 
they are prepared to enter the working 
world? Is first-year retention rate really 
an indication of a school’s quality?
Only a few. schools, such as Boston 
University and Reed College, have re­
fused to submit data for the U.S. News’ 
rankings. Movements existatotherschools, 
most notably Harvard and Yale, to join in 
the boycott of the U.S. News rankings. But 
like a group of first graders who are all afraid 
of disagreeing with the teacher for fear of 
losing cookies and milk during snack time, 
there is no widespread movement among 
universities to thumb their noses at U.S. 
News’ rankings. At CMU, we have always 
been leaders in contributing to the bet­
ter understanding of the world around 
us. It is only natural that we should also 
be one of the leaders in trying to stop the 
perpetration of inaccuracy, such as the 
U.S. News’ college rankings.
Quantify all you wish, but it is impos­
sible to amalgamate all of these factors 
into the nice, pat solution that U.S. 
News tries to force us to accept.
Ellen Beldner is a sophomore writing 
major. She welcomes responsible replies 
to her column.
WNfTrp fpl—_Nl 
To _tll t8 ntRl
UPS, from page 8
will take a hit will more than compensate for 
this. This doesn’t even account for the people 
who will be laid off due to the economic effects of 
the strike.
The simple truth is that some workers got a 
slight pay increase, while a whole bunch of 
people are out of work (about 3 percent a year for 
the higher wage, and 10 percent for those whose 
jobs have changed to full time),, and the com­
pany has suffered possible long term conse­
quences when their business was shuffled over 
to their competitors who may well keep it.
Why do so many perceive this as a victory? 
Because if one has a socialist world view, it was. 
Some were screwed for the benefit of the many. 
They see it as better that the union remains 
strong, than the workers keep their jobs. Of 
course that dated notion that the union is there 
to preserve jobs and help the workers seems to 
have been put to rest. Then again, who ever 
believed that?
James Stepanek is a PhD candidate in mate­
rials science engineering. He welcomes respon­
sible replies to his column.
yTflNA&pdf mTspl 8fplS _ttr to agu
JeffThibert
I’ve been in 
pretty good mood 
for about a week 
and a half now, and 
I’m sure you’re just
dying to know why. Is it because I just turned 18? Nope. 
I have to admit that the right to vote, the right to buy 
pornography, and the right to be drafted could all very 
well go to my head. I’m happy because I’m here at 
Carnegie Mellon.
As a freshman, I wasn’t entirely sure whether or not I 
would like CMU. I had visited only once, in June, after 
I had decided to come here (I’m nothing if not wise), and 
I have to admit that I thought it was pretty nice, but 
there was nobody here. The place was more or less 
barren, and I didn’t get to meet any of the people who 
would be comprising my class, people I could end up 
caring about, any of the people I could love. Sure, the 
campus was great, and I wasn’t all that worried about 
the classes — CMU has a fairly good reputation for that 
sort of thing. I knew, though, that the people would be 
an integral part of my experience; and not having met 
them, I was a bit worried.
So I panicked late this summer, ignoring the advice of 
that silly Hitchhiker’s Guide, and started to question 
myself. What kind of people would I find at CMU? What 
kind of people was I looking for? It turns out that all my 
worrying was for naught. The people here are wonderful, 
and I’ve enjoyed meeting every one of them.
You might notice that I’m excited to be here, and I truly 
hope that doesn’t change. I’m taking interesting classes,
and the variety and talents of people here is astounding. 
I’m also getting older (and hopefully more mature) now. 
My world view has shifted to the point where I can accept 
faults in people, organizations, and in whatever else. 
People aren’t perfect. In high school, I didn’t realize that, 
and I was striving for unreachable goals. As a result, I was 
unhappy. No more.
Even though I do see potential faults in CMU, I can 
accept them. Things are going to be screwed up some­
times. I try to deal with it, not complain, and move on. 
Either that, or I try to fix it. The key is to not complain 
because whining rarely solves anything. The next time 
you catch yourself complaining uselessly, think about it. 
Is what you’re complaining about really that important? 
Think about the times at CMU when you’ve been happy 
and remember what I see right now. Remember how 
wonderful this place really is, and then find something 
more important to do.
People tend to be overly cynical, and we have a tendency 
to make things seem far worse than they actually are. If 
we can complain, we will, because it gives us something to 
talk about. It gives us a way to relate. How many times 
have you bonded with somebody while ragging on a class, 
or a teacher, or some terrible aspect of society?
I’m happy here, and I’m trying to keep a hold on a 
positive outlook on life while spreading it to others. I think 
cynicism, and therefore a lack of hope, is the way to 
unhappiness.
Jeff Thibert is a really, really happy freshman. He 
welcomes all responsible replies to his column.
A PERSON’S
OPINION
£
Okay, you know how 
Mehrabian looked like the 
Mario Brothers and that guy 
in Wean looks kinda like Papa 
Smurf? Well, we asked stu­
dents: What superhero!car­
toon character do YOU 
most resemble?
Compiled by Jenny Garcia de Osuna and 
Anthony Chao
John Chase 
Graduate student 
GSIA
“Batman — if I had a utility 
belt, I’d use it well.”
Ramon Poo
Junior
MechE
“The Joker, because my lips 
curl up.”
Sheri Zofhate
Freshman
Physics
“Punky Brewster!!!!”
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
Vivian Livanos
Sophomore
Psychology
“Carebears, because they’re 
always happy and caring for 
other people.”
adfopmTp gp__to%l WN—^poN -p\ledepf 
WTo6p /¦kx
Editor-in-Chief...............Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor.............1-Ping Li
Business Manager.......Amit Sheth
News Editor...................Ena Khan
Forum Editors................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna
Sports Editor.........Chris Cannon
Features Editor ..Becky A. Cowser
Diversions Editor.........Tracy Odell
Calendar Editor....Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Eds....Paulina
Bercyzynski, Laura Varrachl
Art Editor....................Juiee White
Photo Editor.........Anthony Chao
Production Manager Kevin Babbitt 
Advertising Manager... Steven Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager.......Victor Ortega
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling
Asst. Features Editor....Anne Ray
Asst. Diversions Editor........Ryan
Donovan
Asst. Art Editor........Mark Adato
Asst. Production Mgr.......William
Holtz
Darkroom Mgr Lisette Mlller-Dixon
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
Kenneth Kraemer, Jay Mlolla
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Streiitz, 
Susan Watson
Staffwriters 
Neil Babra, Tom Birdsey, Max 
Chlttister, Matt Cuccaro, Dave 
Elman, Sheila Flanagan, Rebecca 
Frlbush, Carrie Jones-McGuire, 
Carey Lefkowitz, Tom Lin, Simona 
Lo, Vy Ty Mai, Greg Marcks, 
Maureen McGranaghan, Trevor 
Meyerowitz, Danielle Pierratti, Dan 
Rosenberg, Jaya Saxena, Betty 
Shea, Reena Singhal, Nathan 
Steinweld, James Stepanek, Lee- 
Anne Stossell, Meena Vagnier, An­
drew Wang, Anthony Vu, Tony Yu, 
Seldon Yuan, Bradley Zimmerman
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hiromi 
Hasegawa, Dave Newell, Jackson 
Tam, Dave White, David Wlngrove, 
Mike Yeh
Photo
Marla Glmenez, Jason Siegendorf, 
Brian Smith
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Eva Bai, Amy Cristomo, 
Elias Fallon, Colleen Manning, Paul 
Moore
Production 
Tammy Manski, Diana Rutherford
Copy
Mimi Cheng, David Elman, Rebecca 
Fribush, Elayne Foster, Marla 
Gimenez, Helena McGahagan, Matt 
McHenry, Megan Parke, Reena 
Singhal, Stanley Tran, Andrew Th­
ompson, Joanne Wei
Business 
Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhoria, 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chris Hong, 
Avinash Jain
Junior Staff 
Douglas Beeferman, Amy Berger, 
Brendan Bosworth, David Bazelon, 
James Carney, Connie Dieghan, 
Jonathan Fantazier, Rhonda 
Gillespie, Will Isenhour, Lilian Lee, 
Maria Manautou, Josh Merry, Jes­
sica Rhodes, Nia Rodgers, Scott 
Shell, Joshua Walstrom, Julie Wil­
son
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright © 1997 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Funded in part by your Activities Fee. All rights reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890- 3107. The Tartan is a member of the Associated Press.O"

---------------------------------------------------

/k.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V
Thursday, Septemer 4,8 pm: 
General Membership meeting 
In Wean 7500. There will be 
practices everyday at 4:45pm. 
Meet outside main entrance 
of old/sklbo gym. Dress to 
workout & wear sneakers.
Subscribe to the andrew 
bboard “assoc.crew” for 
schedules and Information.
Schedule for this fall sea­
son:
HEAD of the OHIO - Satur­
day, October 4th - Pittsburgh, 
PA - varsity only
HEAD of the CHARLES - Sat­
urday & Sunday, October 18 &
19 - BOSTON, MA - select var­
sity only.
JACK SPEAKMON - Saturday, 
October 25, Columbus, OH - 
Novice & Varsity
HEAD of the OCCOQUAN - 
Saturday November 1, 
Occoquan, VA - Novice & Var­
sity
FOOT of the CHANNEL - Sat­
urday November 8, Pittsburgh, 
PA - Varsity Only
CARDUPITT-Sunday, Novem­
ber 9, Pittsburgh, PA - Novice 
Only
Rugby
Practice will be Tuesday and 
Thursday this week. For prac­
tices, meet at 4:30 pm, at the 
clock. Judging from the sign­
up sheets, practice will most 
likely be Monday, Tuesday, 
and Thursday from now on. 
Liability and Insurance need 
to be filled out these forms 
Tuesday at practice.
The club is working on sched­
uling a game this weekend. 
They may be scrimmaging Pitt. 
If a game gets scheduled, tac­
tics will be Friday night at PHI 
at 5 pm.
,•> !‘Ultimate
Carnegie Mellon's Ultimate 
Frisbee team, Mr. YUK, is off 
to a grand start this year with 
over thirty new first-year stu­
dents showing Interest in play­
ing with the club team. The 
team hopes to have enough 
players to form two men's 
teams and a women's team. 
They head to Syracuse, NY 
next weekend for their first 
college tournament of the 
year.
Any male or female with any 
interest in playing or finding 
out more about the Mr. YUK 
Ultimate frisbee team should 
contact Captain Jeremy 
Richardson (by email at 
Jeremyr@andrew.cmu.edu). 
The team welcomes new play­
ers of any skill level to attend 
their practices, pick-up games, 
and tournaments. Mr. YUK will 
practice several times a week 
this Fall, and the team will 
travel to Syracuse, Rutgers, 
Delaware, and ClubSectionals 
to compete against other col­
lege teams In their section.
Pirates, others make a surprising summer
The Hot Comer
By Matt Cuccaro
What’s up, baseball fans? Coox is 
back with another edition of the 
Hot Comer. Dude, MLB had quite 
a summer.
At the All-Star break we saw 
Mark McGwire, Ken Griffey Jr., 
and Tino Martinez all on pace to 
hit 60 home runs, although they 
have slowed down considerably 
since. We’ve also seen Tony 
Gwynn and Larry Walker make 
impressive runs at .400; now they 
are “only” at .379 and .375, re- 
. spectively.
One of the summer’s biggest sto­
ries has been the success of 
interleague play. As a baseball 
purist, I was skeptical at first, but 
I’ve grown to enjoy it and what it 
has done to boost fan interest in 
the game. This week I’ll look at 
some other surprising success sto­
ries that have unfolded over the 
summer.
Around Pittsburgh, almost ev­
eryone is talking about one team— 
the Steelers. But through Satur­
day, the Pirates were just 2-1/2 
games out of first place behind the 
front-running Houston Astros. How 
have they stayed in contention? 
One reason is consistent pitching. 
Until Francisco “No Hit” Cordova 
got hurt recently, no Pirate starter 
had missed a start all season. And 
while the starters aren’t always 
impressive, they usually keep the 
team within striking distance of
the opposition.
The Bucs’ offense 
gets important 
contributions 
from virtually ev­
eryone — rookies 
Kevin Polcovich 
and Jose Guillen, 
speedy All-Star 
Tony Womack, 
and other prom­
ising young play­
ers such as Kevin 
Young (now in­
jured), Jason 
Kendall, and Joe 
Randa. They 
might not win the 
division, but they 
have given Pirate 
fans plenty of ex­
citing games this 
season and the 
promise of many 
more in years to 
come.
1997 has seen 
the best set of 
rookies in years. 
Vladimir 
Guerrero and Jose 
Cruz Jr. are some 
of the top new hit­
ters, while Lance 
Dickson, Livan 
Hernandez, and 
Brett Tomko are 
the top freshman 
hurlers. The 
Rookies of the 
Year, though, are 
obvious. Philadelphia Phillies 
third-baseman Scott Rolen and 
Boston Red Sox shortstop Nomar 
“The Man” Garciaparra have been 
awesome all season. With 17 hom­
ers, 77 RBI, and a .291 average, 
Rolen is a big reason why the 
Phils will avoid finishing the sea­
son with the worst record of all 
time. And Nomar is just Nomar. 
He currently leads all major 
league rookies in batting average 
(.316), home runs (25), runs bat­
ted in (82), and leads the Ameri­
can League in hits (181), runs 
scored (107), and triples (10). If
Tony Yu/Tartan Art Staff 
he played on a better team he 
would be a top MVP candidate, 
but the Red Sox have been out of 
the pennant race since the sea­
son began. Oh yeah, Nomar just 
completed an AL rookie record 
30 game hit streak this week­
end, too.
Trivia Question: Only two 
rookies other than Nomar 
have ever hit in 30 straight 
games. Who are they?
There are several other 
players who are also having ? 
surprisingly awesome sea­
sons and have emerged as 
MVP candidates. As much as 
it pains me to say, Blue Jays • 
ace Roger Clemens is back.
20 wins, four losses, 1.73 
ERA, and 237 strikeouts in 
218 innings. And with a re­
cent injury to Big Unit 
Randy Johnson (who will ( 
miss at least two starts), the ' 
Rocket should win his fourth ' 
Cy Young Award. Like 
Nomar, Clemens would also 
demand more MVP consid­
eration if he played for a bet­
ter team than the Blue Jays. 
But the AL MVP favorite 
thus far has got to be Yankee I 
first baseman Tino Martinez. 
Not even my detest for the - 
Yankees can ignore this guy’s 
.303 average with 41 homers 
and 125 RBI. And he plays . 
for a team that is leading the * 
Wild Card race and will prob- . 
ably make the playoffs for 
the second consecutive year.
Trivia Answer:
Catcher Benito Santiago » 
of the San Diego Padres hit 
in 34 straight games in 
1987. In 1989, Chicago Cubs 
outfielder Jerome Walton 
hit safely in 30 consecutive 
games.
Coox is a senior in civil 
and environmental engi­
neering. He is hooked on 
phonics and enjoys making 
a fool of himself in public.gpoM \thpo RtNS _tlp R& top mtd_ To lt66pf tepopflDefense plays strong, but team misses scoring chances Women’s soccer
OVERTIME, from page 12
ers (identified as “Blair” by the Slippery 
Rock crowd, and the guy with the “bad 
haircut” according to pro-CMU hecklers) 
seemed to fall excessively.
The opponents threatened first in the 
second half, but Jones made a deft steal and 
booted the ball out.
Slippery Rock continued to gain the 
advantage early, but Kartzman kept the 
game scoreless by wrapping up a soft 
shot, then a sharp ground liner, and then 
snatching a corner kick out of the air. 
Kartzman, who saved eight shots, got a 
hand on it, but couldn’t reel it in. Result­
ing attempts to head the ball by both 
teams missed, but the Tartans eventu­
ally regained control.
Unfortunately, CMU’s advances were re­
peatedly turned away. “We had our
Brian Smlth/Tartan Photo Staff 
Jason Buelow works the sideline against Slippery Rock.
chances,” head coach Nick Gaudioso said 
aloud after the game. “We can’t let the 
chances go by.”
Play was stopped as John Petrillo went 
down in the scuffle and was replaced by 
Masaru Furokawa, one of 12 Tartans in 
uniform on the bench.
Furokawa got “megged” soon after en­
tering the game, but hustled to correct his 
mistake and also blocked a shot on goal.
Control of the ball shifted back and 
forth all game, and this time CMU was on 
the attack. The Tartans got their best 
chance of the game, centering the ball for 
a rocket shot towards the left corner of 
the goal. But it was beautifully blocked 
by the right hand of Slippery Rock’s 
keeper, who came sliding out to challenge 
the play.
Buelow saved the ball from going out of 
bounds with tricky foot­
work and produced an­
other scoring attempt, a 
shot wide by Huryk.
After a short stay in the 
locker room, Petrillo re­
turned for Furokawa. Slip­
pery Rock later made a 
pair of substitutions also. 
Their soft arching shot just 
over the goal was the last 
attempt to finish the game 
in regulation.
The Tartans got the first 
shot attempt in the over­
time, but Buelow’s kick 
from 25 yards out sailed 
straight through and five 
feet above the crossbar of 
the football goal post.
Next, Kartzman made his most im­
pressive save of the night, keeping his 
feet and swatting the ball away on a 1-on- 
1 scoring attempt.
Momentum seemed to swing in our 
team’s favor once again, controlling the 
ball, although two separate chances to 
head it in were unsuccessful.
But after remaining savvy the entire 
game, the defense suffered an uncharac­
teristic breakdown. The offense was 
turned away at the goal and Slippery 
Rock booted the ball to the center of the 
field. One of their massive forwards 
outraced a mid-fielder and seemed to 
put his forearm into Huryk, who pur­
sued after first letting him by. Kartzman 
came out to block, but a late soft shot 
found the back of the goal.
“We are a young team that is bound to 
make young team mistakes,” said 
Buelow. “I think that a lack of experi­
ence, not skill, caused the sudden death 
goal.” When the defense played as a 
cohesive unit, they did not allow a good 
shot on goal. Additionaly, until the last 
shot of the game, Kartzman was able to 
make the save whenever they were sur­
prised or out of position. The team starts 
one senior, two juniors, seven sopho­
mores (including four on defense), and 
one freshman.
The men play Mount Union Saturday, 
September 6. “The conference looks 
pretty tough this year, but our preseason 
performance against Pitt and Duquesne 
shows that we are definitely up for the 
challenge,” said Buelow. The Tartans 
tied the Panthers 2-2 and defeated the 
Dukes 2-0.
has new faces
INJURIES, from page 12
there are four teams ranked nationally ' 
in the top 25,” said Smith. Rochester, • 
Emory, Chicago, and Washington Uni—' 
versity are all perenical powers in thep 
conference.
Haggerty is not looking to any one 
match-up this season to dictate the ' 
success of the season. “Just becaùse.1: 
of our inexperience, we will judged 
success on our improvements from:.", 
day to day.” , !
On Saturday, the Tartans lost 0- 
1 to the Mount Union Raiders in the 
opening match of the season. The - 
only goal of the game occurred with i 
around 20 minutes left in the sec-n.i 
ond half, as the Raider forwards' 
swept wide across the field after»-’ 
regaining control of a mis-cleared;*5' 
ball and promptly buried it in the 
back of the net.
“We passed the ball better than.: 
they did,” said Haggerty. “We! I 
outplayed them even though we didn’t 
win.” Wall said, “Of course it’s disap-. » 
pointing to lose our first game, but* 
we did a lot of good things on the»a 
field, and made some improvements^ 
even over the course of the game. 
Overall, I think we can walk away 
proud of our first match and ready 
for our next.”
The women play two games at the 
Allegheny tournament. Saturday'; 
against Heidelberg College and they paly ' 
Suny Geneseo Sunday.
Çrrzal *xlvace. 
í A/ic-e bzopU.
I TravelCouncil
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange
• 118 Meyran Avenue
Pittsburgh (412) 683-1881
Join The Tartan
as the
Assistant Sports
¦. _ i ï-'ïr?! --Í ? - •=; ¦. ¦ -Editor.
Pretty Please !
With Sugar On Top?

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V//
Pundit consults mystic crystal pigskin
The Pigskin Pundit
By Chris Cannon
The NFL has a few rare “ac­
complishments.” The AFC hasn’t 
won a SuperBowl in a dog’s life­
time, 50 percent of the league’s 
single-season 2,000 yard rushers 
have been found “accountable” 
for a double murder by a civil 
court, and the last and only time 
a team went undefeated most 
undergrads were as yet unborn 
and the grads were probably eat­
ing their first crayons.
Well, sit tight folks because all 
three feats will be accomplished
will join the 1972 Miami Dol­
phins in the record books with­
out a loss.
Or at least two out of three will 
happen, I can’t tell. The crystal 
pigskin gets a bit hazy at the end 
of the season. Technical difficul­
ties, I assure you.
Picturing the AFC victorious 
the last Sunday in January keeps 
getting easier. The NFC’s best 
(Green Bay, Dallas, San Fran— 
my NFC division winners) lost 
key players (Desmond Howard, 
Leon Lett — for 13 games, and 
Jerry Rice, respectively) while 
the AFC’s (New England, Den­
ver, Jacksonville — my AFC di­
vision winners) come back stron­
ger. Anyone forecasting the Jag­
uar’s demise as a result of QB 
Mark Brunell’s injury need only 
look how many time replacement 
Rob Johnson’s name appears in 
Sunday’s box-score to change 
their minds.
"Picturing the AFC victorious the last 
Sunday in January keeps getting easier.”
again, this year. That’s right, I’ve 
looked into my crystal pigskin of 
football futures and seen some 
startling things. Namely, the AFC 
; will win the SuperBowl, not one, 
but two, running backs will top 
' 2,000 yards, and another team
It’s not hard to predict 2,000 
yards with young bucks like Rob­
ert Smith, Eddie George, and 
Lawrence Phillips amassing 509 
yards and six touchdowns com­
bined on the first Sunday. Add to 
that the house-hold names of pro­
bowler backs around the league 
with 1,500 pounds of linemen to 
run behind and it gets easier.
But an undefeated team? 19 
games without a loss? Has the 
Pundit’shamsterfallenoffitswheel?
Not at all fans. You see, rare 
occurances happen in bunches. 
So when I see the best and most 
durable receiver of time injured, 
the J-E-T-S, Jets, Jets, Jets al­
ready bettering their ’96 season, 
and the Steelers dealt their worse
loss in the Bill Cowher era, my 
eyes light up, my ears perk up, 
and I consult my crystal pigskin.
If you don’t believe me, go ahead 
and look back on events this year; 
and don’t limit your search to sports. 
A spree killer, bubbling cosmonauts 
in space, a new comet, with a sui­
cide cult on its tail, and lately, a 
dead princess in a tunnel in France.
So, to paraphrase an old foot­
ball hand whose predictions have 
also gone awry (he picked the
Bills in each of four 
SuperBowls)get ready for wild, 
weird, wacky stuff.
Chris Cannon is a senior com­
puter science minor I film and 
media studies major (or vice 
versa, he gets confused at times) 
and sports editor of The Tar­
tan. He reminds readers that 
he claims no responsibility for 
gambling losses accrued by fol­
lowing his predictions.
49er’s Rice may 
sit out 6 months
San Francisco, CA (AP) — The 1997 
season is off to a nightmarish start for 
the San Francisco 49ers. Jerry Rice, who 
holds all the major receiving records in 
NFL history, underwent surgery today 
to repair a torn anterior cruciate liga­
ment and tom medial collateral liga­
ment in his left knee and is expected to 
jniss the rest of the season. An MRI 
taken Sunday night revealed the torn 
ACL and MCL.
"Tha- injury- was extensive, but the 
surgery went well," Dr. Michael 
Dillingham said. "We can expect Jerry 
to be playing football in the future."
Rice suffered the injury on a reverse in
the second quarter when he was 
dragged to the ground by his facemask 
by Tampa Bay defensive end Warren 
Sapp. Rice's left knee buckled as he 
was pulled awkwardly to the ground 
on the play. Sapp was called for a 15- 
yard facemask penalty on the play.
Sampras loses 
at U.S. Open
New York, NY (AP) — Petr Korda of 
the Czech Republic ended Pete Sampras' 
quest for a fifth U.S. Open title by stun­
ning the top seed and defending cham­
pion in five sets today in their fourth- 
round match at the National Tennis 
Center in New York.
Korda, a 29-year-old left-hander who 
is seeded 15th, won 6-7 (4-7), 7-5,7-6 (7-
2), 3-6, 7-6 (7-3), in a match interrupted 
three times because of rain showers.
Korda nearly defeated Sampras at 
Wimbledon this year. Sampras had not 
lost a set in his three prior win at the Open 
this year and was an overwhelming favor­
ite to win the title. Sampras had won 11 
of 15 previous matches against Korda.
Pete Rose II goes 
1-3 in MLB debut
Cincinnati, Ohio (AP) — If the name 
looks familiar, that's because it is. The 
Cincinnati Reds today promoted third 
baseman Pete Rose Jr. from Chatta­
nooga of the Double-A Southern League 
as the team expanded its roster to 40 
players. He was l-for-3 with a walk and 
two strikeouts as the Reds fell to the
Kansas City Royals, 7-4, in interleague play.
Rose Jr. wore number 14 and received a 
standing ovation when he batted for the first 
time. He singled off the glove of Kansas City 
first baseman Jeff King in the fourth inning 
for his first major league hit.
His father, Pete Rose is major league 
baseball's all-time leader in hits (4,256) and at- 
bats (14,053), but wsa banned by former com­
missioner Bart Giamatti for allegedly gambing 
on baseball. Rose played with the Reds from 
1963-78 and 1984-86 and managed them from 
1984-89. He holds nearly 20 club records.
The younger Rose tore apart the Southern 
League this season, hitting .308 with 25 
homers and 98 RBI in 112 games. He played 
briefly in Indianapolis of the American Asso­
ciation and batted .225 with one RBI in 12 
games. Rose finished fifth in the Southern 
League in RBI and slugging percentage, sev­
enth in homers and 10th in batting average.
.dfNdol efpedfp 8tf Sthp tepopf dmdTolN cpoTlto
OPENER, from page 12
defensive line. He also returns Vince 
Sonson and Jason Funke, strong safety 
and free safety, respectively. Septem­
ber 6. September 6.
If I was trying to hype up the home 
opener on September 6,1 would also tell 
you about the young, talented, although 
inexperienced players. The team is not 
loaded with seniors this year. There are 
young, talented players who are hungry 
for some playing time this year. This 
season’s play can be fantastic, because 
at. every position there will be players 
who want to show they can hang with 
the big boys. But, enough of me talking, 
I’ll let the coach speak. .
“We feel very good about the young 
kids who are coming through the pro­
gram,” Coach Lackner says, “They 
seemed to have stepped in and done a 
pr-etty good job in camp thus far.”
“We want to give our kids a chance to
prove what they can do.... hopefully ev­
erybody steps up, and then we’ll take it 
one day at a time.”
September 6. September 6. So if I was 
trying to sell this game to you, I would 
tell you all of these things. I’d tell you 
about the excellent coach, excellent re­
turnees, and the excellent youth. How­
ever, the real story goes untold. I cannot 
describe Parrish’s thoughts when, near 
complete exhaustion, he continues to 
bench-press 300-plus pounds, for Sep­
tember 6.
I cannot describe the feeling Heald 
has when he is running around the track 
in the middle of the summer, thinking 
about September 6. I cannot describe 
the feeling Coach Lackner will have when 
he steps onto that field for the 23rd 
consecutive year, on September 6. You 
have to see for yourself, then you will 
know. September 6, 1 pm, CMU vs. 
Denision, the Beginning.Tartan linemen prepare for the September 6 opener.
,t__p&Rd__ Npdh mpNl lpN 8tf lpdlto
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
After a tough season last year, 
tlje Tartan women’s volleyball 
t^am is looking to their young 
talent to lead the way for a 
stjrong year in 1997. With seven 
returning players—five of them 
sophomores — and six new 
freshmen, the team wants to 
improve their standings in the 
University Athletic Association 
ranks starting this coming 
weekend at a Marietta College 
tournament.
¡Coach Julia Webb has been con­
centrating the practices for the 
p£st two weeks on offense. The 
t^am is top-heavy in defense, and 
n^eds to work on putting the ball 
away on plays.
¡“The D (defense) is amazing,” 
said senior captain and outside
F
hitter, Brittany Rutter. She 
said that the scrimmage loss 
last Tuesday to Geneva College
wasn’t because the team 
couldn’t keep up with the other 
women; they just couldn’t fin­
ish what they started in the 
points category.
Rutter cited freshmen Cindy 
Kos, Jeri Gode, and Ellen 
Johnston as great contributors to
Along with Patty Bruno, the 
assistant coach, the two are work­
ing with the freshmen and sopho­
mores running intensive offen­
sive drills. Bruno, who played on 
the Tartan squad for several years 
and graduated in the spring, adds 
leadership and expertise — step-
classified
Brian Smlth/Tartan Photo Staff
ADMINISTRATION
Director: Mike Mastroianni x 8-2214; 
Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski 
xS-2214; Intramural President: Jeff 
Jesensky X2-2830; Women’s Presi- - 
dent: Katie Gallagher
IMPORTANT DATES
Thursday, September 4 — Football, 
Tennis, and Co-Rec Volleyball ros­
ters due in the IM office at 4:30 pm.
Monday, September 8 — Manda­
tory Football rules meeting4:30 pm 
Small Gym.
Tuesday, September 9 — Football 
games begin.
Wednesday, September 10 — Ten- ’ 
nis and Co-Rec Volleyball games 
begin.
Thursday, September 11 — Water 
Polo and Chess rosters due.
Sunday, September 14-—Triathalon. .
SPORTS IN SEASON
Touch Football
Rosters are due by 4:30 pm Thurs­
day in the IM office in Skibo Gym: 
There is a mandatory rules meeting 
on Monday, September 8 at 4:30 pm 
in the small gym. All teams must 
have a representative at this imporr . 
tant meeting. Schedules will be 
given out at this meeting. Games 
will be played Monday through 
Thursday evenings and Sunday af­
ternoons starting on Tuesday, Sep­
tember 9.
Co-Rec Volleyball
Rosters are due on Thursday at. 
4:30 pm in the IM office. Games will., 
be played in the UC on Monday : 
through Thursday evenings with . 
games beginning at 6:30 pm and . 
running through 10:30 pm. The first 
day of games will be Wednesday, 
September 10. Schedules can be 
picked up Tuesday afternoon.
Tennis
Rosters are due in the office by 
4:30 pm Thursday. Matches will be 
played on the UC courts on Monday 
to Thursday evenings. The courts 
are reserved from 7 pm for matches. 
Schedules can be picked up on Tues­
day, September 9 with matches 
beginning the following night.
Water Polo
Rosters are due September 11 in 
the IM office.
Rosters are due September 11 in 
the IM office.
The Intramural Department is look­
ing for football officials. Any inter­
ested person is encouraged to con­
tact Mike M. at X8-2214. Experi­
ence is not needed just an interest 
in sports.
Submitted by MIKE GRZYWINSKI
‘The D (defense) is amazing. ”
—Brittany Rutter 
senior captain and outside hitter
the team. Kos, a middle hitter 
and a Pittsburgh native, is a 
strong presence on the court. As a 
setter, Johnston plays a crucial 
role in volleyball; she navigates 
the plays. Gode is a middle and 
outside hitter.
Webb has warned her play­
ers that there will be a lot of 
tough teams at the upcoming 
tournament.
ping in on practice plays to dem­
onstrate when she is needed.
The Tartans women’s volley­
ball team will play in a multi­
college tournament at Marietta 
on September 5 and September 
6. They next play in a tri-match 
September 13 against Washing­
ton & Jefferson University and 
Hiram College.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 92, Issue 1The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 September 1997
gpoPl lt66pf 8d__l 
Nt W_Teepf& It6r
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
A Slippery Rock team featur­
ing big forwards was able to 
steal a game from CMU 1-0 in 
overtime Sunday night in men’s 
soccer. The early action was 
limited, as Slippery Rock’s best 
chance came about 37 minutes 
into the game off a corner kick. 
But attempts to head the ball 
in missed. The ball bounced, 
and goalie Ben Kartzman 
quickly scooped it up.
The Tartans soon countered, 
taking a throw-in from deep in 
their own territory. Two of the 
opponents crashed into each 
other going for the ball and 
inadvertently hit the ball out.
Another quick throw put the 
ball in scoring position, but 
David Zupon’s head-in went 
into the arms of Slippery Rock’s 
goalie.
After a late substitution by 
Slippery Rock, Doug Jones got 
another scoring chance, but it 
was easily handled to keep the 
score 0-0 at halftime.
“Our team has a solid de­
fense anchored by sweeper 
Dave Huryk and complimented 
by marking backs Sarif 
Siddiqui, Eric Hopper, and 
Brad Malin,” said team captain 
Jason Buelow.
The game featured lots of 
pushing and shoving, but one 
of the opponent’s bigger play-
Please see OVERTIME, page 10
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Men’s soccer battled Slippery Rock Sunday night.
Director moves up the hill to Pitt
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
E.J. Borghetti has been mak­
ing the trek up the hill to Pitts­
burgh Stadium since he was six 
years old; now he’s doing it as 
part of his job. In late June, 
Borghetti became the new assis­
tant sports information director 
for the University of Pittsburgh 
Panthers, after spending the last 
two-and-a-halfyears as the sports 
information director for Carnegie 
Mellon University.
“This coming home for me in 
more than one way, my father 
played football for Pitt in the’ 
60s,” said Borghetti, who gradu­
ated from Pitt in 1992. He spent 
time as an intern in the Pitts­
burgh sports department and af­
ter graduation went to work in 
the sports information depart­
ment at Columbia University. In 
the winter of 1994 he came back 
to Pittsburgh and started at CMU 
in January of 1995.
“(Pitt) was one of the few op­
portunities that could have 
pulled me away (from CMU),” 
said Borghetti. He will be work­
ing with men’s basketball and 
some other “Olympic-sport” 
programs, but is currently in­
volved with the football pro­
gram which has seen many 
changes this year — including 
a new logo and color scheme to 
the uniforms and a huge, inno­
vative video board in Pitt Sta­
dium where fans can see in­
stant replays and animation.
“There are exciting things de­
veloping here,” said Borghetti 
about the University of Pitts­
burgh sports program. He is also 
in charge of editing the football 
program, which is rewarding for 
him because he knows that even 
while working under the pres­
sure of tight deadlines, he is
________I_______
John Lee/Tartan Junior Staff 
Sports Information Director E.J. Borghetti grew up attending games at Pitt Stadium.
still producing top quality work. 
He proved this at CMU when 
last year’s football program won 
best in the country for small 
schools.
For Borghetti, Division III 
CMU proved challenging in dif­
ferent ways than the Division 
1 program that he is now work­
ing for. There is no problem 
getting press for the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, but it is a 
more daunting task at CMU. 
“We live in a saturated city 
when it comes to sports,” said 
Borghetti. “It makes it diffi­
cult for a D III school to get . a 
lot of press.”
He added that it was the tre­
mendous student-athletes that
made the programs so great. “If I 
was pitching a story to a local 
reporter I could say that this per­
son is not only outstanding per­
sonally, but athletically and scho­
lastically,” he said.
Borghetti did not leave CMU in 
a lurch. Throughout the summer, 
he spent nights and some week­
end time back on campus — after 
working a full day at Pitt — to 
help tie up some unfinished 
projects while the school searched 
for candidates to fill his position.
The new sports information 
director for CMU, John Surmacz, 
started last Thursday. Surmacz 
is a 1996 graduate of Boston Uni­
versity and came to CMU from a 
position &s sports editor for Gate-
way Press in Monroeville.
“CMU has a good athletic tradi­
tion and I’m working on getting the 
CMU name out there,” said 
Surmacz who received a phone call 
from Borghetti on his first day, wish­
ing him luck in the new position.
“I’m gonna miss E. J.,” said head 
men’s basketball coach Tony 
Wingen. “We were all a little wor­
ried when Bruce Gerson (SID 
before Borghetti) left, but E.J. 
never missed a beat ... I’m sure 
that John Surmacz will pick up 
where E.J. left off.”
“Like I said at my (CMU going 
away) party, ‘My heart has al­
ways bled blue and gold, now 
there is a little Tartan there as 
well,’” Borghetti said.
9on—fTpl Sdhepf \thpoPl lt66pf Npdh To lpdlto tepopf
sons, the team has dropped 
a number of hard-fought 
matches when the oppos­
ing team managed to score 
in the final minutes of the 
second half to hand the 
Tartans a 0-1 defeat. To 
combat this, Haggerty em­
phasizes the shift to a more 
offensive playing style. “We 
want to be attacking more 
consistently from all over 
the field... [and] look to get 
goals earlier in the game.” 
The team’s defense will 
be spearheaded by senior 
back Wall andjunior Tracy 
Burton, with junior Lind­
say Smith in net. “We’re 
less experienced in back,” 
said Haggerty. “[Burton] 
will play a key role for us 
this year.” This inexperi­
ence also carries over to 
the midfield, where a num­
ber of freshmen fill impor­
tant positions. Freshmen
Kim Celone and Terri Daigneault will 
work to complement senior Kelsi 
Montgomery’s experience.
“We have an incredible freshman 
class that should have a huge impact, 
including four starters,”'said junior 
goalkeeper Lindsay Smith. “But we 
lack depth.” Haggerty said, “We have a
Terri, and Kari — those four in par­
ticular, I’m really excited about their 
potential,” said Haggerty. “They’ve im­
proved a lot over the course of the 
preseason.”
Haggerty said, “We’re young, and we’re 
a little injury-ridden. At the same time, 
the kids are excited ... we’ve had a good
“Last year we played back. ... We want to be 
attacking more consistently all over the 
field."
—Ann Haggerty, head coach
lot of first-years starting for us.” 
Haggerty expects that Celone’s touch 
on the ball will allow her to prove to be 
effective at center midfielder and that 
Daigneault will provide good crossing 
passes to the forwards. Freshman for­
ward/midfielder Kari Pylyphyshyn is 
also a strong prospect for the team, but 
is currently sidelined indefinitely with 
an injured hip flexor. “Cindy, Kim,
preseason.” Wall said, “The early inju­
ries this year are something we are work­
ing through. We have a good strong 
team overall, and that will only be en­
hanced when everyone is in good health 
again.”
“If our injured can get healthy and 
reamin healthy, we can cause an in­
credible impact in the UAA; where 
Please see INJURIES, page 10
.dfNdo hpo efpedfp 8tf 8ttNRd__ lpdlto
Cross-country trains for Saturday’s meet.Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
By RYAN E. WILLHITE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
September 6. September 6. September 
6. What does this date mean to you? Does 
it mean more problem sets to do, more 
books/articles to read, or an extra day to 
sleep in and let the hangover pass? For the 
members of the CMU’s football team, Sep­
tember 6 signifies the beginning.
The Carnegie Mellon football team is 
perennially a strong contender and a win­
ning team in the UAA. On September 6th, 
a man named Rich Lackner will step onto, 
the football field. It will be the 23 years in 
a row that he steps onto the field to repre­
sent Carnegie Mellon University. But, you 
would never know. Throughout his twenty- 
three year career as either a player, assis­
tant coach, or a head coach, Rich Lackner 
has never, ever had a losing season. Since 
1986, when Rich Lackner became Coach 
Lackner, the team has gone 80-27-2.
The team has won seven conference 
championships, had eleven consecutive 
winning seasons (including 10-0 in 1990), 
a 24—4 record in conference play, won or
shared seven of the last eight conference 
championships, earned an NCAA berth, 
and has had the coach of the year three 
different seasons. But, despite this suc­
cess, the only number on the team’s mind 
is 8/6/97.
There was also Mike Campie. Campie 
was a first team All-Conference selection 
last year at running back. Some games, he 
ran for so much yardage that the number 
of yards he had was greater than the 
number of people in the stands. But you
“Throughout his twenty-three year career as 
either player, assistant coach, or head coach, 
Rich Lackner has never, ever had a losing sea­
son. ”
If my job was to get you to attend the 
home opener on September 6, how would 
I persuade you? I could tell you how last 
year’s team went 7-3, and tied for the 
conference championship, but would you 
care? I could tell you about Ricco Parrish 
and Rick Steiner, the two split ends re­
turning from last year’s team. I could tell 
you how Parrish averaged 22.6 yards per 
catch during his sophomore season, but 
would it make a difference?
would never know. September 6.
September 6.
That’s not enough you say! You need 
more! I’d tell you about defensive-lineman 
Anima Nwankwo. However, he is not go­
ing to play this year. Injuries to both eyes, 
including a detatched retina, force him to 
sit out a year. But, Coach doesn’t break a 
sweat. He still has 3rd-year starter Chad 
Heald, and returner Aaron Korhut on the 
Please see OPENER, page 11
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Personnel Manager
Inexperience and injury hang 
over the women’s soccer team as 
they begin the season. Coach Ann 
Haggerty said, “We’ve shown a lot 
of improvement in a lot of aspects 
of the game. At the same time, 
we’re young and have a lot of early 
injuries.” Last year, the team went 
9-7-1 overall and 1-5-1 in UAA 
play. Co-team captain Mary Wall 
said, “Our biggest strength is our 
commitment to working hard for 
our team. I think as a team we are 
going to play well this season.” 
Senior Lauren de Rosset and 
sophomore Romy Fischer — who 
is currently out with a knee injury
— return to lead the forward at­
tack for the team, assisted by 
freshman Cindy Echevarria. “Last 
year we played back,” said 
Haggerty. “This year we want to 
open up the field more and attack 
with more players.” In past sea­
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo 
Freshman Kim Celone dribbles against Mount Union.
Editor

---------------------------------------------------

1
T TTTT1T/M
m SI ? ? EU E3 Slip ELlUlNö
a
w
Volume 92, Issue 1The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 September 1997
° range Land
Experience life in 
a different culture
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
You’ve only been here a week and 
you’re already looking for a way out? 
You don’t have to get dean’s vacation 
to take a break from CMU, and you 
don’t have to take a’leave of absence 
to get away from college. By studying 
abroad, you can learn more about an­
other culture, practice your favorite 
foreign language, or avoid a peculiarly 
pesky recitation. With CMU’s Study 
Abroad program, you can get the 
chance to study in a foreign country 
for a semester, a year, or maybe just 
during the summer.
“There’s really a range of students 
who want to study abroad. Students 
sometimes want to become more involved
country in which they studied with many 
positive memories, it is not unusual for 
exchange students to experience diffi­
culties in adapting to the host country’s 
way of life.
“It was difficult to understand the lan­
guage sometimes,” Rowland said. “The 
Scottish have very thick and gorgeous 
accents. My British friends taught me the 
difference between English and British, 
which is a real sore point. I had to learn 
how to slow down, not speak so loud, ask 
how someone is doing before placing an 
order, [and] waste hours and hours of time 
walking and looking.”
Robin Guseman, who studied abroad 
in Spain this past summer, had diffi­
culty adapting to her host country’s cus­
toms as well.
“I expected not to want to return home,
“I had to learn how to slow down, not speak 
so loud... [and] waste hours and hours of 
time walking and looking. ”
— Perrin Rowland, senior professional 
writing and anthropology major
Bangers and Mash? A CMU student learns her way in London
CMU. People in other countries 
have definite opinions of Ameri­
cans, and most of them are not 
flattering. At times I 
would agree with the . 
British critique of 
American culture, and 
at times I would defend 
American culture, 
which taught me so much 
about what it even means 
to me to be an American. I 
didn’t just learn about En­
gland; I learned things 
about America that I 
couldn’t see while liv- 
ing here.
I’m glad I didn’t let my 
fears and insecurities 
stop me from studying 
abroad. I made great 
friends, saw incredible 
sights I’ll never forget, 
and learned more than 
I ever imagined pos- 
sible about England 
Mark Adato/Tartan Assistant Art Editor and myself.
raIk oaaOi/ gaIOaT oEEfEOaTO oIO OafOiI
in cultural and international issues. Stu­
dents may want to work on a language. 
Many students want a break from CMU, 
while others see studying abroad as a 
career connection,” Study Abroad Advi­
sor Eva Mergner said.
“The best experience can be obtained 
if one can shift [one’s] thinking to 
actually think as though you were 
native to that country. This is a true 
learning experience that, perhaps, 
some people have trouble with. This 
allows a more seamless interaction 
with the people of the country, and an 
overall happier time,” said Paul 
Stadler, a senior ECE major with a 
Japanese minor, who studied in Ja­
pan for five weeks this past summer.
“You have to be open and willing to try 
new things. Students should take ad­
vantage of every opportunity. To study 
abroad you should not only learn some­
thing about the country, but something 
about yourself,” said Mergner.
Perrin Rowland, a senior professional 
writing and anthropology major who 
studied in Edinburgh, Scotland and the 
United Kingdom, said, “I left without 
expectations except that I wanted some­
thing different. I wanted a newness and 
a ‘start over.’ If I had any expectations, 
my experience went far beyond any­
thing I could imagine.”
While students are able to leave the
when in actuality I would have come 
home a week earlier if possible. The 
food was really greasy and everyone 
smokes. I felt like a tub when I came 
home,” she said. “I think the best way to 
go about studying abroad is to throw 
yourself into the situation.... It was a 
great time, but I will not be going back 
anytime soon. I would not go back to 
Europe, but I think I would really like 
to visit Latin America,” she said.
Like Guseman, students are increas­
ingly considering studying abroad in non- 
European areas such as Africa, Asia, and 
Australia. Approximately 40 or 50 stu­
dents study abroad each semester, 60 in 
the summer, and 25 for an entire year.
“On the whole, students should be in 
good academic standing. They need to 
be mature and able to handle the change. 
You don’t want someone who is floun­
dering here to then flounder there,” 
Mergner said.
However, while a student’s scholastic 
experience is important once they are over­
seas, many agree that the workload abroad' 
does not compare to that at CMU.
“It’s always what you make it. I was 
never stressed in Italy, and I always 
finished on time. It’s nice if you can 
find someone in your program, or even 
better, a native of the culture that you 
can ‘waste’ time with in a manner that 
Please see CULTURE, page L3
By CHRISTY HIPCHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
I didn’t know what I was get­
ting myself into when I next- 
day-mailed my study abroad 
application the day before it 
was due, but I’m glad that I did. 
I had always wanted to 
live abroad, but I was 
scared to actually do it.
This sounds silly to me 
now, but I was morti­
fied of being lonely. For­
tunately, I was able to 
forget about this fear 
long enough to learn 
that Boston University 
sponsors several study abroad 
programs that include intern­
ships. I spent last semester tak­
ing classes and working at a 
fashion magazine in London.
When I first arrived in Lon­
don, I feared that it was one big 
mistake. I thought to myself, 
“Great idea Christy, why don’t
you isolate yourself in a country 
thousands of miles from your 
friends and family!” But as I ex­
plored the city and got to know 
my seven flatmates, I knew I was 
in for an incredible experience. 
London overflows with fabulous 
theater and art. It has so much
riencing similar things. My 
flatmates and I still keep in touch, 
and I think that we always will.
I worried that I wouldn’t get 
enough exposure to the culture 
by living with Americans, but my 
internship at a magazine took 
care of that. Working with Brit-
“A line is a queue, french fries are chips, 
cigarettes are fags and, trust me, you 
can see things on ‘the telly’ there that 
you'd never, ever see on the ‘TV/ ”
history. Almost anything is pos­
sible there. I shared a flat with 
seven other Americans who were 
also studying through Boston 
University, and it’s hard to be 
lonely when you live with that 
many people — maybe a little too 
hard. But it was great to live with 
other Americans who were expe-
ish people made me feel like I’d 
arrived in London. Being a part 
of a British workplace exposed 
me to so many ideas.
Whether in a pub, club, or at my 
magazine job, the most casual of 
conversations revealed how differ­
ently the British perceive things 
like work, drinking, sex, and life in
general. I found ex­
posure to such 
different atti­
tudes to be so re­
freshing. The 
simple act of lis­
tening to a British 
person speak the 
language I thought I 
knew was enlighten­
ing. A line is a queue, 
french fries are chips, 
cigarettes are fags 
and, trust me, you can 
see things on “the 
telly” there that 
you’d never, ever see 
on the “TV.” Oh, and 
I feel the need to 
say that London is 
not more rainy than 
Pittsburgh!
It sounds cliché, but 
living abroad truly opens 
your mind. There is so 
much out there beyond 
American culture, beyond

---------------------------------------------------

'U.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
“• The University & College Design­
ers Association gave last year’s 
;WATS:ON? Festival of the Arts 
poster an award of excellence.
Joan Dobkin, assistant profes­
sor in the School of Design, cre­
ated the poster. It was among 
1,200 other entries in the nation­
wide competition.
^ r WATS:ON? is an annual arts fes­
tival held to commemorate the 
; memory of architecture alumna and 
adjunct instructor Jill Watson, who 
died in the TWA Flight 800 crash of 
July 1996.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
The Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering will hold its 
annual fall picnic on Saturday, Sep­
tember 6, from 12:00 - 6:00pm at 
Deer Lakes Park. Faculty, students,
• and graduates are welcome. Food is 
provided, and there will be volleyball
- and softball. Anyone wishing to go
• who needs a ride to the park can sign 
up on the first floor of Hamerschlag 
Hall on the graduate lounge door, 
and throughout the first floor.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
. A Consulting Club resume review/ 
. informational interview session is 
scheduled for Saturday, September 
.6. It is an opportunity for consulting 
firms to get to meet students in an
- informal setting, and a chance for 
students to meet people already in 
the consulting field. The session will 
run all day, with a reception with 
Dean Dunne scheduled for 5:30 pm. 
The sessions will begin in Posner 
Hall, in the Career Opportunities 
Center. Anyone wishing to register 
. should submit a resume and dues to 
Nancy Infante and Kathryn Loup by 
. Tuesday at 1:30 pm. There is limited 
space, so slots may not open up with­
out strong interest.
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
The Center for Cultural Analysis 
has scheduled a presentation for Fri­
day, September 5 with Stephen 
, Brockmann. The presentation is en- 
' titled ‘The Good Person of Germany as 
aPost-Unification Discursive Phenom­
enon” and will run from 3:30-5:00 pm.
In addition, the Academic Advisor 
" Center is holding a Dean’s List Recep­
tion for BHA students on Monday, 
September 8 from 4:30 - 6:00 pm. The 
reception is being held in the Rachel 
Mellon Walton Room in Posner Hall.
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
Several faculty members and 
alumnae are featured in a new book, 
Journeys of Women in Science and 
Engineering: No Universal Con­
stants, co-authored by three CMU 
professors/administrators. Some of 
those featured include Susan Henry, 
dean of MCS, Elizabeth Jones of 
Biological Sciences, and Sara 
Majetich, associate professor in the 
Physics Department.
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
The Robotics Institute is finishing 
an interactive project funded by 
NASA that occurred over the sum­
mer. The institute sent an autono­
mous robot called “Nomad” to the 
Atacama Desert in northern Chile. 
“Nomad” made a 125-mile trek that 
tested its ability to navigate and do 
remote science as if it were on the 
moon or another planet. Visitors to 
the Carnegie Science Center were 
able, through an interactive exhibit 
in the museum, to teleoperate the 
robot as it traveled. Images and data 
are available on the Internet at 
www.ri.cmu.edu / atacama-trek.
ON CAMPUS
College Briefs
What's all the racquet?
CMU scientist writes email techno-thriller
Within nine months of finishing a PhD 
from the School of Computer Science, 
Astro Teller published his first novel.
He considers himself lucky; the book, 
entitled Exegesis, is his first published 
work, save for numerous technical ar­
ticles on the subject of artificial intelli­
gence. Considering Teller’s formal train­
ing, his story is unusual. He received an 
undergraduate degree in computer sci­
ence from Stanford University, stayed to 
get his master’s degree in computer sci­
ence, and is studying at CMU for a doc­
torate in — take a guess — computer 
science. Not quite a typical history for a 
budding novelist.
Even though Teller’s training might 
not lend itself to novels at first glance, he 
has used his extensive knowledge of arti­
ficial intelligence in a story that is quite 
appealing to publishers. Vintage, a sub­
set of Random House, picked up Teller’s 
book as a part of their Contemporary 
Originals series. He now has an agent, 
and a five-week national book-signing 
tour lined up, starting this month with 
the Barnes & Noble Booksellers in Squir­
rel Hill.
The premise of Exegesis is tied to 
Teller’s computer science background. 
The protagonist is a conscious computer 
program named Edgar, and the text is 
written entirely in email format. The 
word "exegesis” is defined as “careful 
examination and interpretation of a text, ” 
which makes the word a fitting title for 
the book. With no description, only dia­
logue between Edgar and his contact 
with the physical world, a student named 
Alice, Teller leaves gathering meaning 
completely up to the reader, while giving 
a sense of Edgar’s disembodiment.
It’s clear that Teller has a lot of knowl­
edge about computers, and he is cer-
was born in England, and moved 
around quite a bit when he was 
younger, since his parents are divorced. 
He lived in Berkeley, CA and Evanston, 
IL, and was reluctant to come from 
California to Pittsburgh.
The Tartan: How did the idea for writ­
ing a book come about?
Astro Teller: I’ve actually wanted to be 
a writer since I was three or four years 
old. I never spent my childhood jumping 
rope or playing baseball; I was inside 
reading all the time. Then about two 
years ago, I forced myself to start writ­
ing, and my goal was just to finish it, and 
write something that I enjoyed reading. 
I had an artificially imposed one-year 
deadline for the first draft. I had an 
arrangement with a friend that we were 
going to both write manuscripts, and 
then show them to each other after a 
year. I wanted to write something I 
knew about, so artificial intelligence was 
a good bet. Actually, I originally thought 
that I would set up two fake email ac­
counts on my computer, and occasion­
ally have a conversation between the 
two.... I thought it would be an easier 
way to write the book. And the email 
format is shorter in terms of the number 
of words, but it took me longer than it 
would to write a 400-page description 
novel, because email’s all dialogue, and 
the dialogue is the hardest part.
TT: Who are some of the people that 
influenced you when writing this book?
AT: For starters, I wrote it totally for 
myself. I told people I was writing it, but 
I never showed it to anyone. I can’t think 
of any people, but there were a number 
of books that certainly were on my mind 
when I was writing it. Pygmalion, Flow­
ers for Algernon, the story of Christ,
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Astro Teller is a PhD student in genetic programming at CMU.
tainly well-versed in many other areas, 
such as art and literature. Just by look­
ing at Teller’s personal Web site, it’s 
obvious that he doesn’t fit the common 
stereotype of computer science expert. It 
contains a recommended reading list 
longer than a phone book, and links to 
his favorite artists, in particular Albrecht 
Durer, to whom Teller bears a striking 
resemblance.
Teller, who now lives in Greenfield 
with his wife of three-and-a-halfyears,
which I think is a classic story of artifi­
cial intelligence. He’s super-human in 
some ways, sub-human in others. The 
real subject of an artificial intelligence 
story is trying to define what it is to be 
different from human. Also, Alice in 
Wonderland, at times.
TT: Who are some of your other favor­
ite writers? What is it about them that 
appeals to you?
AT: I’m always been kind of a classics 
junkie. Dickens, Dostoyevsky, Twain,
and some science fic­
tion/fantasy writers 
like Tolkien, Herbert.
A lot less appeals to me 
about that now than it 
used to. And let’s call it 
speculative fiction, and 
the creative thing is 
taking the freedom to 
say “What if?” And that 
has to be done much 
more subtly if you’re 
going to stick more to 
reality. Like in Crime 
and Punishment,
there’s a “What if?” and 
then there are things 
like Tolkien, where any­
thing goes. And I really 
like when writers don’t 
restrict themselves to 
what life is like at a 
[certain time period].
TT: What kind of re­
search are you doing 
now? How did you get 
into that field?
AT: I’m about nine 
months away from be­
ing done in artificial 
intelligence. At the 
highest level I’m run­
ning experiments, and 
I change them to determine how to get 
the desired result. I’m currently doing 
genetic programming — simulated evo­
lution, where the animals are in the 
computer, they’re algebraic expressions, 
and the goal is to train them through 
evolution to do what you want them to 
do. It’s a way of searching.
When I was at Stanford my last year 
as an undergrad, I took two classes with 
a [faculty member] who is really well- 
known in this field, I did a master’s 
project on genetic programming. It’s such 
a young field that there’s lots of room to 
innovate in big ways, not just in small 
ways, which is attractive in science.
TT: What has your experience been 
like on the business side of publish­
ing a book?
AT: Fascinating, really amazing. I 
had no idea how much work it would be, 
but I love learning about stuff, so this 
has been great. I have a fantastic agent. 
I’ve been really lucky. Vintage has been 
incredibly nice to me, really positive 
about the book. They’ve helped me fix 
the things that were wrong with the 
book, and helped me market it. And 
this is the first time in eight years that 
they’ve published a book in the Con­
temporary Originals series, so they’re 
not just pushing the book because they 
like it, but because they’re pushing the 
series. They needed someone who was 
willing to put out a book in only trade 
paperback. Both they and my agent are 
pushing to get it published overseas, 
and my agent has already arranged to 
get it published in German, Dutch, Dan­
ish, and Japanese.
TT: How does the experience of book 
publishing compare to working in com­
puter science in terms of difficulty?
AT: Once you have the novel it’s not
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Astro Teller’s novel, Exegesis, is written in email format.
difficult, but it’s a combination of perse­
verance and luck. I could have easily 
sent it to any of these publishers and it 
could have ended up in their circular 
filing cabinets in the corner. Science is 
much harder. I think I got really lucky, 
because I was writing it for myself, and 
that meant that I didn’t have to obsess 
or get things like writer’s block, and that 
made it not only easier, but fun. So if I 
write another novel, it’ll be much harder, 
because I can’t think those same 
thoughts, “Oh, I’m just writing it for 
myself,” because there are already people 
waiting to see it.
TT: What do you think the CMU com­
munity lacks the most?
AT: I couldn’t say that the CMU com­
munity is lacking, I’ve actually seen it 
worse. At Stanford, the CS department is 
even more insular than here. There are 
groups within the department that are 
isolated. But here there’s quite a bit of 
talk between our entire department. CMU 
gets enough money so people don’t have 
to fight over it. I’m not privy to where all 
the money goes, but that’s my impres­
sion. At Stanford, people get jealous over 
the money, and I actually think that this 
is the best department in the world.
TT: If you could meet any other writer, 
living or dead, and ask him any ques­
tion, what would it be?
AT: I’ve played that game before, and 
I usually play it where you ask what 
person you would like to have dinner 
with, and I often say Mark Twain. I feel 
confident that it would be an enthralling 
two hours, aside from the details I would 
get from him. I’d much rather have a 
really great evening rather than have 
Leibnitz and Newton in the same room 
and ask which one of them invented 
calculus first.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
Mike Hutsko, sophomore MCS student and David Monsees, sophomore industrial management major, took a break from the first week of classes by playing racquetball.

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V'0
Etf_^ ht—fol _tll t8 
cTdodPl mTsTom leTfTN
LONDON (AP)—Around the world, 
the people she charmed and the causes 
that counted on ,her grieved for Prin­
cess Diana on Sunday.
“I will never forget her laughter,” said 
Diana Kresic, the 13-year-old daughter 
of a Bosnian land mine victim.
The girl met a smiling, compassionate 
Princess ofWales earlier this year when 
Diana toured the former Yugoslavia 
and Angola for a high-profile campaign 
against land mines — one of countless 
efforts by Diana to give what she had too 
much of — fame — to the charities and 
movements that got too little of it.
The princess first entered the pub­
lic eye at 19, a shy kindergarten 
teacher fleeing photographers in fe­
rocious pursuit of a shot of Prince 
Charles’s girlfriend.
Her every move was chronicled, but 
the gossip columns and tabloid TV 
shows often failed to capture her true 
nature, said Plamenko Priganica of 
the U.S.-based Land Mine Survivors 
Network, who lives and works in 
Tuzla, Bosnia.
In Cambodia, one of the world’s most 
heavily mined countries, officials said 
they hoped her death would bolster an 
international campaign to end use of 
the lethal, crippling weapon. “This is a 
very great loss for the Cambodian 
people,” government spokesman Khieu 
Kanharith said.
In the hours after the Paris car crash 
that claimed Diana’s life, condolences 
poured in from across the world.
It was Diana’s role as a “queen in 
people’s hearts” — the title she said 
she most coveted — that won praise 
from South African President Nelson 
Mandela, who paid tribute to Diana as 
“an ambassador for victims of land 
mines, war orphans, the sick and needy 
throughout the world.”
The princess “dedicated her life to 
humanity,” said Mario Villarroel 
Lander, president of the International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Cres­
cent Societies.
In Calcutta, Mother Teresa honored 
Diana’s commitment to those less for­
tunate than herself. “She was very 
concerned for the poor. She was very 
anxious to do something for them. That 
is why she was close to me.”
David Harvey, executive director 
of the Washington-based national 
AIDS Policy Center for Children, 
Youth and Families, said, “With one 
royal handshake given to a young 
man with AIDS in the late 1980s, 
Diana forever changed the face of 
AIDS for the world. She educated 
the world about compassion, love 
and understanding. Diana will be 
sorely missed.”
Singer Michael Jackson canceled a 
concert scheduled Sunday in Belgium 
that 60,000 people were to attend.
Concert organizer Paul Ambach said 
Jackson was stunned by the news of 
Diana’s death and unable to perform.
President Clinton, vacationing in 
Martha’s Vineyard, said he and his 
wife, Hillary, “knew Princess Diana, 
and we were very fond of her.”
French President Jacques Chirac 
called her a “young woman of our time, 
warm, full of life and generosity.”
In a message to Britain’s Queen 
Elizabeth II, Philippine President Fi­
del Ramos said, “This loss is not that 
of one family nor that of the British 
nation alone. The human community, 
especially the world’s children and 
the victims of the weapons of war, will 
gravely miss Princess Diana and her 
noble work for a peaceful and more 
humane world.”
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, 
in Venice, Italy, said Diana’s death 
“has robbed the world of a consistent 
and committed voice for the improve­
ment of the lives of suffering children 
worldwide.”
Egyptian TV interrupted its pro­
grams to announce the death of Diana 
and her Egyptian-born companion, 
Dodi Fayed.
Mourners in Moscow laid flowers 
outside the British Embassy. Russian 
President Boris Yeltsin “took to heart” 
Diana’s death, an aide, Sergei 
Prikhodko, told Echo Moscow Radio.
The British consulate in Hong Kong 
lowered its flag to half mast. Hong 
Kong’s new leader, Tung Chee-hwa, 
said he was “deeply shocked and sad­
dened” by the princess’s death. Diana 
was to have visited the former British 
colony this year.
In Pakistan, former Prime Minister 
Benazir Bhutto praised the princess 
for her “elegance” and “devotion to 
humanitarian and social causes.”
In a message to the queen, Kenyan 
President Daniel Moi said, “The death 
has robbed the world of one of its most 
compassionate persons.”
Again and again, that word came up
— “robbed” — to describe the way 
Diana died — fleeing photographers.
Danish Foreign Minister Niels 
Helveg Petersen expressed sympathy 
for the princess’s two sons, saying 
they had “lost their mother in an un­
fair way.”
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl 
called Diana “the victim of an ever 
more brutal and unscrupulous com­
petition of a part of the media.”
“This terrible accident and her death 
should finally give those responsible 
in the media a reason to reflect.” 
Conveying the sympathy of 
Sweden’s royal family, spokeswoman 
Elisabeth Tarras-Wallberg said, 
“When you literally chase someone to 
death to make money from pictures, 
things have gone too far.”
yTflNA1pdf eftmfdhl —o^pfmt 8d6p_T8N
By RHONDA GILLESPIE
Tartan Staffwriter
The first-year student orientation ex­
perience has received a minor facelift 
at CMU. If you are a first-year student, 
you may not have noticed that Orienta­
tion 1997 had a slightly different look 
than first-year programs in previous 
years. But with new activities, re-tooled 
year-long programs, and even a new 
coordinator of Student Life for First- 
Year Programs and Orientation, this 
year’s CMU first-years are bound to be 
better prepared than most beginning 
college students.
“CMU doesn’t seem to be a place 
where folks rest on past success. I want 
to be sure the program continues to 
meet the changing needs of new stu­
dents while providing an exciting lead­
ership opportunity for orientation coun­
selors,” said Lisa Dingman, new coordi­
nator of Student Life for First-Year 
Programs and Orientation, about the 
overall orientation program offered for 
first-year students.
Orientation is the first experience that 
students have on campus. This year, first- 
year students participated in new activi­
ties, such as Picnic on the Quad with 
Greek letter organizations and “What 
About Monday?”, a program to help stu­
dents dispel anxiety about the first day of 
class at CMU. The latter program was an 
attempt to shift the students’ focus from 
Orientation to academics. Another change 
to the orientation schedule was that stu­
dents were allowed more free time this 
year than in previous years.
“Simply being in a new environment, 
in addition to all the Orientation activi­
ties, can be exhausting. We wanted [first- 
year students] to have time to adjust,” 
said Dingman.
“The program should be fun and that 
focus did not change,” said Andrew 
Snyder, a junior computer science and 
mathematics major and a Head Orien­
tation Counselor for 1997.
But the focus did change for the First- 
Year Partnership program, in place for 
more than three years now. The 
program’s main focus, then and now, is 
that students have a FYP partner who is 
a member of the faculty or staff. Through­
out the year, the student’s partner, along 
with an RA and OC, helps the student to
adjust to the campus 
community.
“The idea is that 
members of the first- 
year class who sign up 
for the program and 
live in designated 
housing areas will 
have a year-long pro­
gram to help ease the 
transition from high 
school to college,” said 
Snyder.
“We hope that this 
sense of community 
and class identity be­
comes a part of all 
first-year students’ ex- 
periences,” said 
Dingman. She said 
that the changes made 
to the FYP program 
this year included re­
ducing the size of the 
groups, bringing the 
entire group together 
at least once a month, 
and adding support 
structures for the RAs 
and OCs in their ef­
forts with the new stu­
dents. “I hope to at­
tract more faculty 
partners, bringing into balance faculty 
and staff participation,” she said.
Dingman has received much praise 
for her ability to work under pressure 
and adjust quickly to her position.
“She [Dingman] arrived on campus at 
the beginning of July and was asked to 
direct a program that she did not create. 
Kimberly DiDonato, her predecessor, 
was responsible for laying the ground­
work for the program, and then Lisa 
very capably picked up the ball and saw 
the program through to completion,” said 
Allison Riley, assistant director of stu­
dent life. “Lisa will be developing her 
vision for first-year programs over the 
course of the coming months. We look 
forward to having her fresh perspective 
on first-year programs.”
“She recognized immediately that... her 
best role would be as a leader who Cuuld 
guide the process as opposed to remodeling 
everything,” said Snyder. He hopes that 
Dingman continues in the direction that she 
is now going with the FYP program.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor , 
Lisa Dingman takes the reins as the new coordinator of 
Student Life for First-Year Programs and Orientation.
“The FYP program should shift its ' 
focus from being completely individual­
ized by floor to having more FYP-wide 
events that include the entire group of ; 
people involved in the program. Having ! 
a more global approach to the program • 
would help to give the students a better i 
sense for exactly what the program is all • 
about and how they can gain from par­
ticipation,” said Snyder.
Dingman chalks Orientation ‘97 up­
as a success. “I’m thrilled by the class’ 
unity and ‘Orientation Spirit’ that have* 
come out of Orientation ‘97. Students, 
feel connected to their orientation ! 
groups and to each other as members of’ 
the class of 2001,” she said.
“I believe that both the first-year stu­
dents and the Orientation Counselors 
enjoyed the new changes that were put- 
into place this year,” said Snyder. “ïn- 
general, people like to see something- 
new, and for several of the programs' 
this year, that’s exactly what we were* 
able to provide.”
ytfpTmo lN—^& eftsT^pl teetfN—oTNTpl
CULTURE, from page LI
would be considered reckless at this 
school,” said Robert Ferry, a fifth- 
year architecture major who studied 
in Italy last spring.
“The workload was minimal — even 
though I was in an intensive course, the 
most intensive study ended up being my 
personal study on my free time,” he said.
It seems to be a common belief among 
past exchange students that the most 
educational and positive experiences 
come from interacting with the residents 
of the host country.
“[I] met a German woman in the 
English Garden, as I was just walk­
ing around after class. I spent the 
whole day with her.... By the end of 
the day, it seemed like we had known 
each other for years, not hours,” said 
Julie Balch, a junior biology and 
music major who studied this sum­
mer in Germany.
While studying abroad has taught stu­
dents a great deal about another coun­
try, it has also provided many students 
with the means to learn new things 
about themselves.
“By studying abroad, I gained a 
sense of independence that I other­
wise would not have reached. I com-' 
pletely eliminated all my fears of trayj- 
eling alone and I’m hoping to get tife- 
opportunity to spend more tinig- 
abroad. I would definitely recommend 
studying abroad to other students 
because it is a great learning experi­
ence,” Fenton said.
If you are interested in finding out 
more about studying abroad, contact! 
Eva Mergner in the Office of Interna­
tional Education.
HUMANITIES
-------- and---------
SOCIAL SCIENCES
¦ Carnegie Mellon ¦
First- yeea gdvtc• ps•l
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences congratulate the following 
students for their outstanding academic performances during the Spring 1997 semester.
SeniorsKatherine Melton*Christal BurnettDavid OsorioCameron Conger*Matthew MorrisSusan Campbell*Kevin Kroen
Jordan AndersonDavid MeyersBusakornPhoebe PapageorgiouBecky CowserMaria MutiVineet Chander*Julia Lin
Heather AmeiChristine MillerChantasasawat*Ricardo ParrishLisa Don*Alexander Nagumey*Michelle Chao*William Maranlz*
Michael Ayoob*lan MurphyAvram Cheaney*Anthony Pitts*Joshua Donner*Veena Nath*Ryan ChewShane Miner
Sandra BanksAstrid RappGunyoung ChungJennifer Ragan*Allyson FentonAfrodete Neofotistos*Bryan CockrellMichael Monsilovich*
Eric BarnesEric Schonthal*Yao-Lung ChungLauren Reilly*Michael FisherJames Nickman*Austin Coloni*Kashi f Raza*
Vitiorio BernardinoLina Shah*Jennifer DefilippoKimberly Sims*Lauren GarciaRoland Reagan*Erica Coslor*Roger Reed
Damian Bierman*Nicole ShechtmanJessica Egyhazi*Nesta So*Daniel Greene*Lia Rozmiarek*Susan CribbsJanice Reyes
Peter BoyerAustin ShifrinAmy Eubanks*Michael SpergerEric GreensteinDebra Schwartz*Rebecca Crivella*Cheryl Rothstein*
Jeremy Brooke*Douglas Smith*Joy Ferguson*Daniel StaufferJancl HanmerAlexander Skroupa*Elizabeth Currid*RisaSang-Urai
David Brotherton*Vincent SonsonLori GiarnellaRichard SvinkinDonald HoagEmily Spencer*Joshua Feira*Jaya Saxcna
Jessica Chalifoux*Marla Spontak*Maria Gimenez*Corinne SwinchartDavid Howes*Michael SubclskyChristopher Ferraro*Thomas Schwartz*
Vanessa ChowNathan Stark*Stacie HajdukSavit TewariStacey Jenkins*Audwin Tang*Lisa FerrugiaLaura Shaffer
Eric DahlemBliksem TobeyRaymond HiltzJason TraynorMaria Johnson*Amanda Tishkoff*Amy FosterPalak Shah
Derek DavisonMichelle Vollmar*Xiangyu HouRetna WulandariMelissa KaplanKarin Tuxen*Rebecca Fribush*Melissa Sloan*
Jacob FreifeldJoshua Wisch*Carrie Joncs-McGuireNematullah Karimi*Jeffrey VitekLee FuhrKristy Sorcan
Ewa Gawlikowska*Benjamin Kroh*SophomoresLisa KlcinmanRobert Vitek*Shannon Gibson*Darren Thomas
Shannon Gibney*JuniorsAlexander Lewin*Ingrid Aizicovici*Jodi KurtzHolly Weiss*Kristin GrassoErin Tocknell
Jenny GoodBeth Abramson*Jeremy Lewit*Arthur ArdolinoEirik Kydland*Kristen WilliamsErin Hahn*Fiona Tranquada*
Conal Ho*Christine AllardJohn MalichkyMichele BankoDiana LalorJulie Wilson*Tcia HarperLaura Valcnzcno*
Kathryn Hoover*Vanessa Altman-Brian MancosEvan BenoitAlonzo Lee*Eruani ZainuddinCindy HuangJoseph Valeri*
Bret IoliSiegelGregory Marcks*Brendan BosworthLori-Jean Lee*Scott JaspanErica Vogel*
Esther JimenezDaniel Arp*Mindy MarksKelly BowlesErica Magliaro*FreshmenJohahna JohnsonRoger Wei*
David LiuDani BarnardHolly MatthewsScott Bricker*Jason Martin*Candice Amich*Benjamin Kartzman*Jennifer White*
Anna LorchDiana Bartolotta*Thomas McKceff*Joseph BrooksMaxwell Mason*Anika Amin*GcolT Kaufman*Anthony Yu
Terry Lumish*Ashley Bone*Melissa Murello*Michael Broom*Andrew McCreadyIsnezawati AzaliSang Kim*Rubina Zaidi*
Rebecca McCadneyMichelle BrogeAiko MuroMichelle BrownStephanie McMainsMeghan Barke*Ashley Kinsey*
Sean McCandless*Lisa Bublitz*Sravan NarayanSarah Campen*Nicole McNeil*Amy BergerJason Knight** Dean’s List with
Andrew McDermottRobert Buchko*Jamie Ogline*Elona ChameyKelly McPhecLisa BigelowBrian Knudsen*High Honors

---------------------------------------------------

OfficeMax
®
Savings To The..M4X!mGuaranteed Low Prices Everyday!
yTsp WNdf -tNpRttr
, CMUsuicOfffuneaw PlnIAHaA giU PIfun w Offfuneaw PlnIAHaA tiU PIfun
UniverUsty we’ll guarantee our low prices up to 155%
We’ll match any legitimate advertised price by any store stocking the same item in a factory sealed box. If you find a lower 
price advertised by any other local office products superstore within 7 days after your purchase from OfficeMax, we'll refund 
155% of the difference (up lo S55.00). If you find a lower price advertised by any non-office supply superstore within 7 days 
after your purchase from OfficeMax, we’ll refund the difference. Simply bring in the competitor's ad. (Our low price guaran­
tee does not apply to typographical errors, or to any item or price that includes bonus or free offers, special financing, instal­
lation, rebate, close-out or clearance prices, or one-of-a-kind or limited quantity offers at OfficeMax or any competitor.)
DdoCmPdds: WnEO if N-79 iT U.v. 19k TnwO Oi Wag-eaIO...........
Store Hours: Sun: 10am-6pm Mon-Fri: 7am-9pm Sat: 9am-9pm
mdNDGPVNttP: GInaO viFOynIT vyi’’fTh DnTOnI. WaEyfThOiT Pfkn
______ ___ _____________.742-0020 (dU 50) ...............................................................................................................................................221-2260
PNTTvmUdGL: diBfTEiT TiUTn DnTOnI. dO. 60 TnaI Nkna .7788-6321 PtPovÀCT LNttv: viFOygaTH FiFI vnaEiTE vyi’’fTh DnTOnI.
eOCdOPVNttP: eiTIinlfggn eagg oTTnw. carnE vO. eagg PTOIaTunk ’ DgafIOiT mglH. (dO. 51). EiFOy if DnTOFIA gg[_eagg ................653-9350TnwO Oi Dfuk'E v’iIOfTh GiiHE..............................................858-4400 '----------------------.Offfuieaw with FFITfïFIneaw'-------------------------
GdPPCvmUdG: df. 30k TnaI WnEOriIngaTH eafg......!.........837-fT5 ! ?k0P.I®Af.vfOgW1mmULGL:k „ . „ „ cf euNTOAIn & euKrhyO dH.. auIiEE OIir CiIOyUal eagg.....369-9480;
DOeXk NTu. Wn InEnIln Oyn IfhyO Oi gfrfO qFaTOfOfnE. CiO InE’iTEfBgn fiI OA’ihIa’yfuag nIIiIE. PIfunE lagfH fT giuaOfiTE gfEOnH.
I Your Next CopyMax Order I of $10 or More!
I OTn uiF’iT ’nI uFEOirnI. CiO lagfH UfOy aTA iOynI iffnI. Ci ’yiOiui’fnE auun’OnH. DyiiEn fIir raTA EnIlfunE: 8&W iI uigiII ui’AfThk HnEkOi’ ’FBgfEyfThk uFEOir EOar’Ek gaBngEk Offfuneaw 'BFEfTnEE uaIHEk gnOOnIynaH aTH riIn! ------------------ -jccffnI lagfH OyIF 9/30/97.
LOWR ZWMDY.AS 5B0yWR ZBRMBE
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
681-3181
Roman Catholic Campus Ministry
Campus Mass Schedule
SUNDAY
10:30 am & 8:00 pm 
Posner Hall (GSIA), 
Mellon Auditorium
Staff:
Fr. Bryan Summers, C.O., Director 
Fr. Drew Morgan, C.O. Fr. David Abemethy, C.O.
Fr. Joseph Linck, C.O. Sr. Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
MONDAY-FRIDAY
12:30 pm 
University Center Chapel
RYAN CATHOLIC NEWMAN CENTER
4450 BAYARD STREET
INVITES YOU TO A
FREE BARBECUE DINNER
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1997, 5:00 TO 8:00 P.M.
If you need help in finding the Catholic Student Center, go to Holland South (Pitt in the Quad) 
or in front of the University Center Cirlce (CMU, Forbes Avenue side) 
and join a group that will be escorted at 5:00 & 6:00 pm to the Catholic Newman Center, 4450 Bayard Street.
Information 681-3181
Come and Meet Old Friends and Make New Ones.

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V'5CMU robots beat Japan in RoboCup
By SHEILA FLANAGAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The word “soccer” usually con­
jures up images of agile male or 
female athletes chasing a black- 
and-white ball around a large, 
grassy playing field.
But imagine if we replaced 
those athletes with radio-con- 
, trolled robots, supplied them 
with a golf ball, and relocated 
the game to a ping-pong sized 
: table. That’s exactly what mem­
bers of the Carnegie Mellon 
Computer Science and Robotics 
departments did this week at 
the World RoboCup ‘97 soccer 
competition in Nagoya, Japan, 
where they defeated teams from 
around the world and won a 
trophy for their efforts.
The RoboCup competition took 
place as part of the 15th Inter­
national Joint Conference on Ar­
tificial Intelligence, an annual 
meeting where scientists display 
their most recent advances in 
robot technology. The confer­
ence took place from August 22- 
29 in Nagoya and consisted of 
various workshops in addition 
to the soccer competitions.
The soccer games serve as a fun 
way for the researchers to show 
off their abilities to make their 
robots perform intelligently as a 
team and win the competition.
Several leagues were repre­
sented at the RoboCup; includ­
ing the simulator league, the 
small robot league, the middle- 
size robot league, and the ex­
pert robot league. The Carnegie 
Mellon team, CMUnited, par­
ticipated in the simulator 
league, where they were one of 
thirty-two teams from around 
the world, and the small robot 
league, where they were up 
against opponents from Spain, 
France, and Japan. CMUnited 
put the other teams to shame in 
both leagues by ranking first 
consistently throughout .the 
games and by winning a trophy 
at the end of the competition, 
according to the results given 
on the RoboCup homepage.
The robots used by CMUnited
in the competition are 7.5 cm 
cubes on wheels developed by 
graduate students Peter Stone 
in Computer Science and Kwun 
Han in Robotics.
Stone and Han are using 
these soccer-playing robots as 
the basis for their doctoral the­
ses on multi-agent learning.
Stone developed the intelli­
gent learning agents for the 
players in the simulator, while 
Han developed the vision pro­
cessing system for the robots. 
The vision system is composed 
of an overhead camera which 
focuses in on colored patches on 
top of the robots and continu­
ously feeds information to com­
puters that figure out the direc­
tion of the ball and determine 
the direction in which the ro­
bots should move.
The robots’ mechanics were 
developed by engineer Sorin 
Achim. The software for con­
trolling the robots was devel­
oped by Stone, Manuela Veloso, 
project manager and associate 
professor of computer science at 
CMU, and the rest of the team.
According to the RoboCup 
homepage, CMUnited is also 
tentatively scheduled to partici­
pate in RoboCup ‘98 in Paris. 
There are plans in the works for 
a welcome-home celebration 
when Stone, Veloso, and Han 
return to Pittsburgh sometime 
in early September, according 
to Jim Morris, department head 
of Computer Science.
In addition, rumor has it that 
a few of the robots are already 
pondering endorsements with 
several well-known sneaker 
companies. But for now, they’re 
just content with their new repu­
tation as the “dream team” of 
the robot world.
Stone, Veloso, and Han were 
unavailable for comment on 
their experience at the RoboCup 
because they have not returned 
from the competition.
The RoboCup homepage can 
be found at http:/ / 
www.csl.sony.co.jp I person / 
kitano/ RoboCup / 
RoboCup.html.
Magazine highlights campus vision
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
The pieces of a puzzle don’t make a 
perfect picture when they’re looked 
at individually. They might be in­
triguing and beautiful, but they don’t 
project a final, concrete image. A 
college campus can be viewed in this 
same manner. All of the buildings 
can have their individual charm, but 
the true test of a well-planned, well- 
organized campus is the overall pic­
ture — how every building fits to­
gether to form a cohesive learning 
and living environment.
CMU is a campus with such a 
vision. The University’s planning and 
building history has been featured 
in an extensive article in the latest 
issue of Architectural Record. The 
piece was written by Mildred F.
Schmertz, a Pittsburgh native and 
daughter of Bob Schmertz, who 
taught in the architecture depart­
ment for many years. The 12-page Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
article is centered on the University The University Center was the focus of a 12-page spread in Architectural Record.
Center and its role in the master plan of the University. where the University Center stands now. According to the article,
“I don’t think a lot of buildings get this kind of attention. I can’t the buildings that were erected during the time period of1932-1984 
think of an article where a new college building was presented and reflected the school’s technical background, but did little to continue 
set into the context of a college campus plan [such as CMU’s],” said the unification of the campus through architecture.
According to the article, the buildings completed in the last stage 
of campus planning (the parking garage, West Wing and Resnick 
dormitories, Gesling Stadium) are a return to Hornbostel’s master 
vision of what the campus should look like. They incorporate the 
cream-colored brick of the original buildings, and have the same 
“axial quadrangles formed by building walls.”
The architects who restored Hornbostel’s vision to the campus 
via these facilities are Michael Dennis, Jeffrey Clark & Associates. 
They won the University Center competition, held in 1987, and 
built the above buildings. They continued their vision on campus 
(as Michael Dennis & Associates) with the $47 million University 
Center, the main focus of the Architectural Record illustrations.
“The thing that I like best about the University Center is the way 
it connects with the rest of the campus,” said Cooper. “The earlier 
Skibo was almost a barrier.... [Another] thing that I like about 
Dennis’s project is the way the entrances are so well-integrated 
into the campus.”
With the recent success of campus building, and construction of the 
Purnell Center underway, itseems theHornbostel vision ofthe campus 
has been realized, albeit through the eyes of architect Michael Dennis.
“My compliments to Michael Dennis for the success of the 
projects,” said Cooper. “I hope that the... recognition ofthe overall 
campus plan and individual buildings will help out with the 
Purnell Center.... I hope that more alumni and friends of the 
University will help with funding.”
Doug Cooper, a professor in the school of architecture and creator 
of the second-floor University Center mural, which was featured 
on the cover of Architectural Record.
One of the reasons why the University Center was featured in 
the magazine, according to Cooper, is the uniqueness of the history 
of architectural planning at CMU.
“The CMU campus is a very well-known campus design because 
it was built in accordance to one plan and most of the original 
buildings were built by one architect,” said Cooper.
It all started in 1904, when Henry Hornbostel beat out 44 
competitors to design a master plan for Andrew Carnegie’s emerg­
ing Carnegie Technical Schools. Hornbostel’s unique vision ofthe 
campus buildings as a reflection of the railroad and steel indus­
tries by which it was surrounded became a kind of stamp, accord­
ing to the article in Architectural Record. This stamp would 
eventually emerge as the prevailing architectural design on cam­
pus despite later influences by other modern architects.
“The campus planners who follow Hornbostel — Githens and 
Keally in 1938 and Sasaki Dawson & DeMay in 1968 — accom­
modate CMU’s rapidly expanding postwar student population 
with little regard to the pattern set by Hornbostel. Indeed, their 
initiatives lack a controlling architectural form, and chaotic 
development follows.”
This passage from the Architectural Record article refers to 
buildings such as Skibo (built in 1960), the structure that once stood
YOU WON'T FIND HIM 
IN OUR ST ORE. . .
BUT YOU WILL FIND $8 CD’S 3 FOR $20.
C.D. TRADER
BUY • SELL • TRADE • RESERVE
“NOW FEATURING USED VIDEOS”
201 SOUTH CRAIG • OAKLAND • 412-687.6626 - mo ¦ 20D1 PENN AVE • STRIP DISTRICT • (Every Satuidjy)
SEPTEMBER SPECIAL:
Free poster with purchase and CMU ID
ofnccyalsal herlenUUsal hrts­srat
LDRC neurophysiology group seeks to 
hire both strong C/C++ and/or Java 
programmers to develop state-of-the- 
art brain imaging tools. Positions 
involve user interface, tool, and sys­
tems programming in Unix environ­
ment (Unix/X experience a plus, but 
not required).
a& a(T8fT8 )TTfT ©n­Tn n_ 8tnoWNN
See http://neurocog.lrdc.pitt.edu/program/
EmaikTim Smith tws@neurocog.lrdc.pitt.edu (624-8193)
62.1-Ha>r
¿joltS- sj..
kdmseeyc Fscc 
kfry byvnse
Carolina Boots:
Come and Try a pair on!
• Best boots made in the world
• Made in U.S.A.
• With or without steel toes
• Available in a variety of styles 
for many different uses
• Casual or work
2205 Murray Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
(412) 521-3355
Open Daily: 8 A.M. to 6 P.M.
Saturday: 8 A.M. to 5 P.M.
We Specialize in Men’s Full Soles
We Carry All Kinds of Shoe Supplies.
We Also Carry Backpacks and Fanny Packs.

---------------------------------------------------

Patroclus:
A loyal «...I
friend of Achillei
Are you urging 
, me to join 
the battle,
. my friend?
Sir, the battle 
has already 
begun. -
1 The 
Myrmidons are 
getting impatient 
to show off their 
mercenary skills.
WHERE THE HELL 
IS ACHILLES?/,
///A VENT 
SEEN HIM!!
All right. 
Tell the 
Myrmidons to 
get on the 
chariots. We'll 
break through 
the center / 
field.
Timing and 
| v- \ patience are
¦ \vb the prc‘ requisets 
> \ in a war.
/ 1 fully 
trust your 
intuition 
on how 
to fight 
effec- 
. tively.
The Achaeans were 
far more superior 
in military strength, 
but the Trojans had 
the full geographical 
advantage.
Skamander & Simoeisj 
rivers, steep hills, I 
and deep valleys 
provided narrow 
passages, thus 
limited access to 
the hack of the city. I
Not to mention lhL‘ impregnable 
• Vi city,wall oí'Mir»......
.11,vi Apollo;.-' 
h(.'Ipod la build.
11 didn't lake long 
for both sides to 
realize that the war would not end so 
soon and easily.
YES! We have genuine, syndicated, r 
size, bigger-than-your-head, three orf 
Dilbert, Doonesbury, Non Sequiter, 
Comics will be just as much fun
TARTAN COMICS.
more b_ng for y_ur uck.
Ok - COWic-SdjUy is
£> IA. -t i fe-d- . /O w -¿e. 11 ¿s’y
io^kzo^ l4u MOO.Tar peu^-e-i/vt
oUe/vc-tt M -¿-Ue. Copies Stc-i/dn,
\jJda -io M&lp '?
¿\w \r,e.'s looki^ -far <a_ t}gS>*S
C o*v\ ici 0u.^ oy ^ iV
A-oa , -j- / S , peLra_mecrilouse Of
, muy caro cartoons. You’ll see them in the full- 
four page TARTAN COMICS next week! They are 
Robotman, and Over the Hedge. Student 
, if not more so, pero muy menos caro!
q0Y©TFC8m;T
kW-4-i© andreu/... Mij boss 
\\&<.<¦ -to like, y ou ¿Xi/kL tívtKi y0u Ve in ¦
>A/kûek Alr* yon -^ov 7/
CT^e. p¿xy 's> \ous-t-j j \c>oA svisile)
“What’s it mean when a girl breaks up with her 
boyfriend and then invites you over for drinks?” 
“It means you’re gonna have a more exciting weekend 
than I am.”
uINE,m BNE,M BNE,L &vn ads CfhPc d MJnE,LguOnEnPc dw rSndMMM vNB y:Nfs Bn c,r- svn arCvs 
dwS CN csEdrCvs sN Ad,rwC f-Mg
Usrt,­NEiS lfin x*2kV 
pNfPEn rw svn wrong -idtnL
d -ErAnE aNE dii hNf sdEsdwbtNArtcb(rECrwc
U
o. The Tartan has this guy—let’s call him Comics Guy
— who is extremely witty and quick. He puts all the 
comics together and makes you laugh. Tartan comics are 
Side-splitting, action-packed, witt-laced, hormone-induced, 
starry-eyed, heaven-sent and technicolor dreamy (Ok, 
they’re not technicolor, but they must be close). So this 
week is just a taste of the wonderment to come — the fun 
in store — for you, dear reader.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 92, Issue 1DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania2 September 1997
Female performers take center stage
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Diversions Editor
The skies opened up and poured 
down on the crowd when Lilith Fair 
rumbled into Pittsburgh on August 
12. But even the thunder and light­
ning could not drench the spirits of 
the 20,000 fans who came to see the 
celebration of women in music as 
organized by Sarah McLachlan.
The audience for the sold-out show 
filled the hill of Starlake Amphithe­
ater until not a blade of grass was left 
uncovered. This was not a show for 
mosh pits or body slamming; every­
one sat serenely on the lawn (except 
for the annoying girls in front of me 
wearing frilly dresses who occasion­
ally stood up to frolic to the, music). 
Until the rain came, of course, then 
•everyone came to life.
This particular performance of the 
tour, which began on July 5 in Wash­
ington state, opened with Shawn 
Colvin on the main stage. I must 
admit I only caught the end ofShawn’s 
performance — this goes back to the 
sold-out part I mentioned earlier. Un­
fortunately, the show started at 5 
pm, so fans had to battle not only 
each other to get to the concert, but 
also rush hour traffic.
Shawn played the guitar and sang 
selections from her new album, A 
Few Small Repairs. The crowd didn’t 
seem to know any of her songs until
she finished her set with “Sonny Came 
Home.” Then for the first, but defi­
nitely not the last time of the evening, 
the crowd joined in and sang along.
After a quick but enchanting stint 
by Lisa Loeb on one of the side stages, 
it was time to return attention to the 
main stage for Sarah McLachlan. I 
was surprised Sarah didn’t save her­
self for last, but the organizer of Lilith 
Fair took her turn even before the sun 
had set. Maybe she somehow knew 
the rain was coming. After all, she 
was the one who envisioned this highly 
successful music festival.
Sarah charmed the crowd with a 
mix of songs from her new album 
Surfacing and her older album Fum­
bling Towards Ecstasy. She could 
do no wrong up on stage as she 
.finished with a beautiful rendition 
of “Possession.”
The skies grew dark as Jewel set up 
on stage. The crowd was abuzz — 
Jewel was who they had come to see. 
She got my attention when she began 
by belting out Gershwin’s “Summer­
time,” leaving no doubt in anyone’s 
mind that she had a voice to be reck­
oned with.
She continued with her well-known 
and overplayed repertoire, including 
“Who Will Save Your Soul?” and “You 
Were Meant For Me.” Halfway 
through Jewel’s set the thunderstorms 
rumbled in, but the crowd stuck with 
Please see LILITH, page L9
Reporter heads backstage
By ELLEN BELDNER
Tartan Staffwriter
I knew that we were getting close 
when we stopped for lunch at a Burger 
King just north of Orlando, Florida. 
Josie and I turned off the Social Distor­
tion CD and climbed out of her Infiniti 
as Ryan’s Honda pulled up beside us. 
The Burger King was almost empty 
when we arrived at about 12:30 pm, but 
after we had gulped down our lunches 
and were heading out to the park­
ing lot, we noticed the “others” — 
spiked hair, excessive body pierc­
ing, bug-like sunglasses, and bike- 
chain necklaces.
Like us, they were pilgrims to 
the Sanford, Florida leg of the 
Warped Tour on August 3. Spon­
sored by Vans Shoes, the 
Warped Tour collects between 
14 and 20 punk and ska 
bands, throws in pro skate­
boarders, BMX bikers, and 
several dozen vendors, and 
then proceeds to haul the entire entou­
rage across the country for 29 different 
stops during the summertime.
In early June, I hustled to 
www.warpedtour.com to find out the 
wheres and whens of the tour. As I 
browsed through the site, I noticed an 
application to become a Warped Reporter 
working for the tour’s management. I 
applied and a month later found that I 
was hired, had a press pass, and wouldn’t 
have to pay for my ticket. I was excited, 
I was stoked, I was happy — but it 
wasn’t until I found out that I was as-
over the house for two hours.
A Warped Tour headliner, Social Dis­
tortion is one of the seminal punk bands 
that formed in the late ’70s and early 
’80s on the Southern California music 
scene. Heavily influenced by rockabilly 
and other “unusual” influences for a 
punk band — such as the Rolling Stones
— the four-member group released its 
fifth full-length album, White Light White 
Heat White Trash, last year and has 
been touring since mid-November.
So I dyed my hair purple, polished 
my combat boots, and en- 
MpQ0 listed Josie and
, le 
, 52in nD 3
Ryan.
And
there we were 
on August 3, standing in 
the middle of a giant parking lot in 
the baking Florida sun and choking hu­
midity with thousands of other warm 
bodies pressed up close and personal.
Around 1:30 pm I found the tour’s 
production office, met the production 
manager, and spent the next four hours 
running between performances and the 
Social Distortion tour bus in an attempt 
to catch the band. First they were still at
signed to interview Social Distortion that the hotel, sleeping. Then they were still 
I hyperventilated and ran screaming all sleeping. Then they wouldn’t be in until
around 5:00 pm. Around 5:15 pm I 
knocked on the bus’s door, and Robert, 
one of the band’s managers, finally said, 
“Yeah, sure, we can do the interview 
now. When’s a good time for you?” “Any 
time,” I answered. “Okay, how about 
5:30 pm, in the production office?” 
“Sounds great.” Damn, I thought, the 
production office: a glass-fronted room 
in the strip mall with zillions of people 
walking in and out. But hey, I was doing 
the interview. So I went to the office, 
checked my tape recorder, and waited. 
At 5:20 pm, Robert walked in.
“Yeah, well we looked at the crowd, 
and there are just too many people,” he 
said. I think, “Oh, great, they’re not 
going to do it. ” And then Robert 
continued,“... So we’ll justhave 
to do it on the bus.” “And this is 
a problem?” I think. We arrived 
at the tour bus. I hadn’t expected 
to be able to speak with Mike 
Ness — Social Distortion’s lead 
singer typically avoids interviews
— but a few moments later, lo and 
behold, I was sitting in a room talk­
ing to Ness himself.
Ness and I started talking about his 
take on the Warped Tour. He then 
went on to discuss the punk scene today 
versus the scene that formed in the early 
’80s, his lyrics, Cadillacs, and his degree 
of comfort with computers.
Later that evening, several hours af­
ter Social Distortion’s 45-minute set, I 
met up with Ness again while Josie and 
Ryan waited for AAA to get Ryan’s keys 
out of his locked car. Leaving with an­
other 15 minutes of conversation, an 
autograph, and a photo, I gave the 
Warped Tour my two thumbs up.
2«G«I«c«7« yplNTsd_Pl ToNThdNp lt—o^ 8dT_l To _dfmp spo—p
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Editor-In-Chief
Pittsburgh’s bizarre weather 
patterns took their toll on the
H.O.R.D.E. Festival this year — 
many fans of headliners such as. 
Neil Young and Crazy Horse, 
Soul Coughing, Toad The Wet 
Sprocket, Mighty Mighty 
Bosstones, and the Squirrel Nut 
Zippers barely showed up for 
the last act, making the tour’s 
visit to Pittsburgh a bit of a 
disappointment.
Obviously the idea of cool, damp 
aii- and muddy shoes in the middle 
of August disgusted Pittsburghers
enough to keep them away.
For those that did show up, 
enthusiasm was sparse. These 
reputable bands couldn’t 
swing the big scene dynamic 
that is imperative for a good 
show at Starlake Amphithe­
ater. It was just too big for so 
few people.
Soul Coughing’s amazing per­
formance which blended the per­
fect mix from both of their al­
bums, Ruby Vroom and Irresist­
ible Bliss, would have fared well 
in a club, but on Starlake’s main 
stage, the distance between the 
audience and the artists made 
me feel as if I was watching the 
show through a glass window.
But because of lead singer Michael 
Doughty’s charisma, I regretted 
that I missed their last perfor­
mance in Pittsburgh last Spring 
atMetropol. If their fans were few 
and far between at the show, Soul 
Coughing left Pittsburgh with 
many new followers, anxious to 
seem them perform again.
Toad the Wet Sprocket, who 
sounded like annoying back­
ground music that you find at 
food festivals or junior high car­
nivals, suffered from an all time 
lull in audience interest. I think 
by that point we were all trying 
to figure how to get to the bath­
room and make it back to our 
unpaid-for seats, without secu­
rity catching on.
Squirrel Nut Zippers, who per­
formed on the smaller side stage 
had better luck, mainly because 
the crowd was more intimate. 
Back on the main stage, fans 
seemed to liven up for the 
Bosstones act — kids were actu­
ally dancing and the big show 
aura arrived on scene at last.
One of the main problems with 
the show is that most of these 
bands are at their most charming 
in small clubs, playing concerts 
individually; that’s why they are 
so popular. When you take them 
out of that setting and group them 
with a bunch of other names for 
45-minute-per-band-perfor-
mances, the dynamic shifts.
This year’s H.O.R.D.E. Festi­
val highlights too many good 
bands who depend upon inter­
action with the audience. These 
club scene bands floundered in 
a bigger arena, especially when 
the space didn’t fill up until the 
end of the show. The interac­
tion needs to be a give and take 
relationship between the art­
ists and the audience.
Neil Young, a veteran on any 
size stage, can boast the best 
performance of the evening, but 
it clearly wasn’t his best per­
formance. He seemed to go 
through the motions without 
adding any new spark, but at
least the tent was filled with 
fans revived with some sort of 
second wind, energized enough 
to make Young’s encore “Tonight’s 
the Night” the most memorable 
song of the show. Or maybe I 
remember it better because it was 
the last one.
But the fate of the concert 
was not unique to Pittsburgh
— the H.O.R.D.E. Festival has 
increasingly declined in popu­
larity all around in the last 
few years. Maybe the idea of 
club scene bands following the 
smell of more money by hitch­
ing up to larger tours seems 
unappealing to even the big­
gest of fans.

---------------------------------------------------

R-stcCou oi Omp-yaDacJ -yl buDJ 
3ruayn dSS? kc-yvJ waJD
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences and the 
College of Fine Arts congratulate our students for their outstanding academic 
performances during the Spring 1997 semester.
Calendr
D. Renee Hairston 
Lucas Izquierdo 
Hester Kamin 
Lisa Kicielinski 
Kyra Kristof 
Lisa Marinacci 
Peter Moore 
Christa Sherwood 
Jill Sincaglia 
Anuj Vaidya
.1lendr
Robyn Burwick 
Dana Heath 
David Martino 
Elizabeth Paddock 
Susan Watson
Cn4snindar
Carrice Delo 
Sheila Flanagan 
Alexandra Grundeman 
Maureen McGranaghan 
Dorian Peters 
Jessica Phillips-Silver 
Jameson Zeigler
fdarsial
Virginia Bond 
Justin Cina 
Megan Franke 
Galadriel Gerardo 
Katharine Torrey 
Mary Tremonte 
Frederick Zeleny
You've got a lot on your mind. So before your brain gets to overload, 
get your hands on some help. With PalmPilot'," it's easy to store an 
entire college career's worth of info-names, phone numbers, 
appointments, assignments, e-mail* and more. And when you need to 
back up on your personal computer, just touch a button on the docking 
cradle and all your data is synchronized in 
seconds. At just 4.7" and 6 oz, PalmPilot is more 
than a convenient electronic organizer. It's the 
buddy your overworked brain's been waiting for. The Connected Organizer
PagrPfgiOPIifnEEfiTag PHfOfiT
1em rnriIA • mauk-gfO HfE’gaA
PalmPilot
1 oHHInEE Biik 1 enri ’aH > DaguFgaOiI 1 P-rafg 1 LiOvATu' OnuyTigihA
PagrPfgiO PnIEiTag PHfOfiT• 512Km rnriIA • mauk-gfO HfE’gaA ; DaOnBiik • oHHInEE Biik
DaOnBiik Ti<gi gfEOE Pw’nTEn GarnE 
NTOnITnO InaHA
• Ti-Hi gfEOE• Pw’nTEn• GarnE
• enri ’aH• DaguFgaOiI• LiOvATu' OnuyTigihA
If you want it in your 
HEAD you need it in your
• Mai wpco'.oo supporne on Pah-Abt Pro'ess-cr. 
separateV Cojyigh: 01997 3Com Corporation et is ol Xeni Corporation o' its suosooncs. An »tier txa
on),-. MM and Ewnso appicauons and some to desktop software not supported on Macintosh.' PaSnPifciMacPac. required for Macintosh connectiyty. is sold 
¡ubStí.anes.'A:i rights reserwd. 3Com. the 3Com lego, and Graffiti are roistered trademarks, and HotSyrc. PaknPdol Pa!m OS and the PalmPilot logo are trademaitó Is and product names may. be trademarks or registered trademarks ol the» respectos hoWers.
How does it 
feel when 
7000 people 
ask you to 
explain 
what’s going 
on?
Join The Tartan 
and find out
D6NTsTNTpl ydTfJ
&vfEcSdhm Un-snA:nE 4
Ip6f—TNhpoN gppNTomJ
&fncSdhm Un-snA:nE 9 ds 5 -A rw 
svn .SdAcNw IrwC rw )d,nE OdiiM 
jloo ’eGG.
Openings in all departments — no experience 
needed. Email pb3s for more info.

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V'¦
Comic convention 
disappoints fan
The Homage imprint had the least space, 
and with Paul Smith, James Robinson, 
Kurt Busiek, Alex Sinclair, and Brent 
Anderson, it had the most signings and 
the most Eisner awards. Grade of Hom­
age booth: A. Grade of Image/ 
Wildstorm: D- 
Acclaim set itself up as the maverick 
, of the convention. Their pros were the 
by MdX ChlttlSter nicest folks I talked to all weekend. The
Comic Book Chronicles
Every couple of months, some comic 
book distributors, a publisher or two, 
and an artist get together in a confer­
ence room at the Sheraton Station 
Square, and they call it a comic book 
convention.
! That ain’t a comic book convention. 
What they throw in San Diego every 
summer, that’s a comic book convention.
You walk up to the convention center 
and you see the line. It’s not that bad; 
there’s about twenty people standing 
outside, with a cop standing at the back 
pf the line.
The Marvel booth was an abomina-
only artist I saw during the entire show 
who genuinely seemed to enjoy sketch­
ing was Kenny Martinez, who spent 
three days doing free sketches of any 
and every Acclaim character you could 
name. Grade of Acclaim booth: A 
The panel discussions were distress­
ingly monotonous. Seven or eight “How 
to Break into Comics as a Writer” pan­
els, 15 “How to Break into Comics as an 
Artist” panels, and nothing about how to 
learn to draw or write. And every one of 
them said the same things. For a con­
vention that lasted for four days, you 
would think the organizers could include 
a little variety. The only chance I had to 
talk to anyone about how to write wastion. Marvel had very few autograph 
sessions and almost no previews. Most when I cornered Dan Jurgens for 10 min- 
of their space was taken up by comput- utes, and all he could really tell me was to
ers and television monitors showing clips 
of Spider-Man and X-Men. In order to 
get to the preview table, I would have 
had to stay in the Stan Lee/David 
Hasselhoff autograph line for 45 min­
utes. Sorry; if I wanted to see two of the 
most overrated guys at the convention, I 
would have gone to the Todd McFarlane 
and Rob Liefield signings. Grade of 
Marvel booth: D 
The DC booth wasn’t much better in 
terms of traffic flow. Their booth was 
circular, with the circle defined by the 
autograph and preview tables. The prob­
lem was, the middle of the circle was 
dominated by the Batmobile from the 
latest Batman movie. JLA’s Howard 
Porter was the hardest working guy at
find Denny O’Neill. Panel grade: F 
The dealers were like dealers every­
where — on the whole, overpriced and 
Understaffed, with a limited stock. I can’t 
remember how many times I heard, “I 
have that back in my store, give me a call 
in about a week, and I can probably find 
it.” Plenty of dealers had stock other 
than comics. I bought plenty of movie 
posters and t-shirts, but avoided the ac- 
tionfigures, statues, models, lithographs, 
and bootleg videotapes. The variety of 
non-comics paraphernalia was stunning, 
even though the comic book selection was 
disappointing. Dealers grade: B- 
Overall convention grade: C. Four 
days is just too long for a comic book 
convention. I felt like I’d seen just about
Comedy uses standard plot
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
I suppose that a romantic comedy is 
not the type of film to see if you’re a cynic 
like me. It should come as no surprise, 
then, when I tell you that Excess Bag­
gage is true to the genre formula and 
hence completely unbelievable.
What: Excess Baggage 
Director: Marco Brambilla 
Company: Columbia Pictures
Emily Hope (Alicia Silverstone) is 
the rebellious daughter of a rich busi­
nessman (Jack Thompson). Appar­
ently, he’s too busy making money to 
care about her, so she devises “games” 
to try and win his attention. Her lat­
est scheme has her locked in the trunk 
of her car, victim of an imaginary 
kidnapping plot. All is going well until 
a professional car thief named 
Vincent (Benicio Del Toro) decides 
her auto is worth taking, and then 
things get interesting.
Once out of the garage, Vincent is 
immediately chased by the police, who 
were on the case. Not a problem since 
the cops are incompetent. The prob­
lem for Vincent is the way the back of 
the car shakes once he’s got it in his 
warehouse. A quick look in the trunk 
has him confused and the viewers 
waiting for the moment when the 
thief and his “excess baggage” fall for 
each other.
As the unlikely couple, Del Toro and 
Silverstone work well together. There 
is a sweetness in them that underlies 
the stealing and mischief — we are 
supposed to believe that they really are 
good people, and to this extent the film 
succeeds. Perhaps it is because they
are surrounded by other, less likable 
criminals that include Emily’s own 
father, a couple of thugs, and the mys­
terious Ray (Christoper Walken), an 
old family 
friend.
Walken and 
Del Toro also 
are the only 
convincing ac­
tors through­
out the movie, 
due perhaps to 
a thin script. As 
the father, Th­
ompson is so 
cold that he 
strains credu­
lity. He merely 
goes through 
the paternal 
motions with­
out any feeling 
beneath them.
Silverstone’s 
dialogue at 
times seems 
awkward and 
placed in her 
mouth.
Walken, how­
ever, is by now 
so familiar with 
his role as ma- 
liciously-evil- 
man-with-gun 
that he is per­
fectly at ease.
To its credit, the 
screenplay 
adds a human 
side to him that is often overlooked.
Unfortunately, the script also subjects 
us to a number of plot twists that are 
immediately evident from the setup 
shots. I’ll leave you to deduce what the 
purpose of showing a lit cigarette fall-
ing into a pile of clothes or burly men 
eating breakfast might be.
In short, if you normally feel up­
lifted by the triumph of love in films,
© 1997 Columbia Pictures 
Vincent Roche (Benicio Del Toro) and Emily T. Hope (Alicia 
Silverstone) share an intimate moment in Excess Baggage.
you’ll like Excess Baggage and will be 
able to overlook the conventions. On 
the other hand, if you’re XZa dis­
cerning moviegoer, you might want 
to find a better example of cinematic, 
comedic amore.
this con; he was signing and sketching everything I wanted to see in a day and 
every time I went to the booth. Never a a half. I spent the rest of the time going 
lack of talent at the DC booth, and to panels I didn’t want to see and thumb- 
plenty of people were answering ques- ing through the same old longboxes. It 
Itions, publicizing new projects, and the was an okay time, but I can’t see myself 
like. One of the thrills of the convention going across the country again for this 
for me was hearing Grant Morrison say 
to me “Do ya wan’ me ta sign tha’ fer ye?”
Grade of DC booth: B 
For me, the surprise of the convention 
was the Image/Wildstorm/Homage 
booth. I thought it would be a whole lot 
nicer than it was. A full quarter of the 
booth was devoted to selling Genl3 post­
ers, Genl3 t-shirts, Genl3 beach towels,
Genl3 the flame-thrower, and so on.
convention.
Max Chittister is a senior creative writ­
ing I professional writing major. His next 
column, appearing in two weeks, will 
begin "Of course comic books count as 
literature and an art form. How could 
anyone in their right mind say other­
wise?” If you have any opinions on this 
subject, send email to beatle@cmu.edu.
Lilith Fair offers female talent
LILITH, from page L7
Jewel as she competed against the 
noisy sky to finish her new single, 
“Foolish Games.”
Sheryl Crow was up next. Peeking 
from under the edges of the blanket
I was holding above my head as cover 
from the downpour, I could see the 
singer/songwriter as she sang the 
songs we all know by heart because 
of their constant airplay. “Are You 
Strong Enough?” and “Hello, It’s Me” 
were crowd pleasers.
Indigo Girls took the stage last to
complete the musical extravaganza 
for the diminishing crowd. Anyone 
who stayed got a treat. For the final 
two songs of the evening, all the per­
formers joined the Indigo Girls for spe­
cial renditions of “Closer to Fine” and 
a hymn, “The Water is Wide.” Com­
plete with Jewel yodeling, these two 
songs topped off an evening of incred­
ible female musical talent.
The lessons of this concert experi­
ence? Well, sometimes shelling out the 
extra few bucks to sit under the roof is 
worth it.
But seriously, these female performers 
treated the crowd to an exciting mix of 
music never assembled on one stage be­
fore. Each stop on the tour featured a 
different group of singers. Fiona Apple, 
Meredith Brooks, Tracy Chapman, and 
Paula Cole are just some of the perform­
ers that participated in the festival at 
other locations.
Part of the money earned by the 
festival was donated to charities in 
each city that hosted the tour. No one 
left Lilith Fair dry, but no one left 
unsatisfied either.
LtlNto "tel ac lSt\6dlpl 
DhpfT6do h—lT6 6thetlpfl
By SCOTT SHELL
Tartan Staffwriter
This June, the Boston Pops Or­
chestra released its second al­
bum under conductor Keith 
i-iockhart. It’s entitled American 
Visions, and appropriately, it’s a 
portrayal of this country’s cul­
tural and musical tradition. In 
nine not-so-often recorded pieces, 
it attempts to recreate America 
in note and rhythm.
Who: The Boston Pops 
Orchestra, Keith 
Lockhart, conductor What: American Visions 
Label: RCA Victor
! This album is released during 
Lockhart’s fourth year as the 20th 
¿onductor of the Boston Pops. He 
succeeded John Williams, the rec­
ognizable musical force behind 
many of Steven Spielberg’s mov­
ies. Lockhart also carries a sig­
nificant association, at least lo­
cally. He served as director of or­
chestral activities and earned his 
MFA at CMU. He also conducted 
the Pittsburgh Civic Orchestra.
! But that’s where the associa­
tions end. In American Visions, 
unfamiliarity of the selection is a 
problem, and it doesn’t enhance 
the album’s first impression. The 
Pops’ last release, a collection of 
Glen Miller classics called 
Runnin* Wild, was full of memo­
rable favorites, and it topped the 
classical charts for four weeks. It 
seemed more essentially “Ameri­
can” with its oldies 
and ties to World 
War II patriotism.
American Visions 
is not really a slice 
of culture. It won’t 
remind you of any­
thing, and it’s not 
catchy. Mostly, it is 
impressions and in­
terpretations, more 
an abstraction than 
musical history. For 
the most part, it 
feels American, but 
the familiar tunes 
are still missed.
There’s not much of 
“pops” here.
There is a definite 
sense of American 
culture, though.
This is not an easy 
accomplishment —
America has long 
been known for its 
diversity. The al­
bum tackles this by 
piece. Howard 
Hanson’s “Maypole 
Dances” has defi­
nite influences from 
northern Europe.
Spanish elements mingle in Harl 
McDonald’s lively “Fiesta,” and 
the sounds of the deep South are 
captured by Ferde Grofé’s “Mis­
sissippi Suite.”
There are the usual spotlighted 
American composers. There’s 
some good Copeland from Rodeo, 
and the Bernstein selection is 
typical of him, radiating some 
exciting jazz. John Williams’s 
“Hymn to New England,” how-
courtesy of RCA Victor 
Keith Lockhart is the former director of orchestral 
activities at CMU.
ever, is mediocre and disappoint­
ing for the movie melody master.
As expected from the Boston 
Pops, the performance is quite 
commendable. Unfortunately, the 
weak point in this album is the 
selection, and technique cannot 
compensate for that. The pieces 
are on the whole very nice, but in 
the sense of “American” and 
“pops,"American Visions betrays 
us in familiarity and style.
Hewlett Gallery mirrors reflect dancer’s emotions
By NIA RODGERS
Tartan Staffwriter
Before the performance of 
“Now I Can See Myself,” by 
dancer Laura Brungard with 
sculpture by Brett Day and 
original music by Pittsburgh- 
area violinist Lisa Miles last 
Thursday in the Hewlett Gal­
lery began, I found myself eye­
ing the other people waiting, 
thinking how completely bad 
my hair looked, and wondering 
if that guy over there was both­
ered by the fact that his shoes 
were contemplating suicide 
because his socks were so atro­
cious. Others perhaps talked 
and asked, “When does it start?” 
More than a few sneaked a 
glance at their reflections in 
the glass door. Some of them 
frowned and patted a stray hair, 
some tucked in their shirts and 
stood a little taller or sucked in 
their stomachs. A handful ran 
off into the bathroom where 
they probably took a good 
minute or two to assure them­
selves that they looked “OK”. 
Yet all of that trivial primping 
was congruous with the theme 
of Brungard’s performance.
The piece was filled with a 
wistful, secretive feeling of 
acute introspection that pulled 
at the awareness that nothing 
was secret. Dim night lighting, 
pierced by a warm glow around 
a tree-like structure in the cen­
ter of the gallery, created inti­
macy, almost privacy, around 
Brungard. She seated herself 
in front of the central sculpture
almost as if it were a shrine and 
she a pilgrim come to pay rever­
ence to the televisions embedded 
in it and to the cameras around 
the room. On the center televi­
sion, the viewers watched 
themself watching Brungard. On 
one screen, Brungard’s face 
peered out questioningly into the 
audience. On another screen, her 
back arched away, and on an­
other we saw her from the side.
As the performance began, 
Brungard studied herself in the 
tree-mirror. It was something 
that we all do, so common that 
you could almost imagine her 
saying “Does this look right?” or 
“Geeeezzz, I’m putting on weight!” 
But the introspection became 
more spiritual as Brungard 
moved from camera angle to cam­
era angle regarding herself and 
the audience.
Miles’ violin and mandolin com­
position began to juxtapose the 
feelings of private and public self- 
awareness. At times her violin 
alone moaned longingly or wist­
fully sighed. Then a rhythmic 
mandolin track would begin push­
ing at the violins singularity with 
its overpowering and persistent 
intensity. Confusion and tension 
about who was truly watching 
who began to pervade the piece. 
At times, Brungard ran to the 
wall and pressed against it as if 
trying to escape herself or the 
scrutiny of the audience. At other 
times duringthe dance, her move­
ments suggested a sense of explo­
ration, comfort, and satisfaction 
with herself.
Her increasingly emotional move­
ments were both reactions to see­
ing her true self and reactions to 
the audience seeing something 
about her. Brungard comments, 
“As a dancer, I have always had 
to deal with mirrors that give not 
just a reflection of myself, but 
sometimes a form of self-identifi­
cation. Whether the reflected im­
age is accurate or not, I have a 
tendency to trust its report more 
than the one coming from inside 
my own skin. For me, this di­
chotomy of feelings has also ex­
tended to seeing my own dancing 
on videotape, the technological 
mirror.”
The theme of seeing oneself 
continues in the accompanying 
works by Brett Day. Crafted and 
shaped objects are embedded or 
placed on mirrors. Each mirror 
has text upon it, and as I tried to 
decipher the works, I literally saw 
myself and became a part of the 
experience of the whole piece. I 
asked myself, “What am I seeing 
and why am I seeing it this way?”
How much of what I felt about 
myself was my own original feel­
ing and how much of it was some­
thing that was shaped by the 
performance, by the words, or by 
society in general? Our social ob­
session with appearances makes 
this performance intriguing and 
the craft of Day, music of Miles, 
and emotional choreography of 
Brungard are well-combined and 
complementary to one another.
Brungard and Miles will be 
performing again this Thursday 
at 5 pm in the Hewlett Galleiy 
which is located in CFA.

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA OUTLET
Oakland/Shadyside 
4740 Baum Boulevard
Open 7 Days a Week
Sunday-Thursday 11am - 2am • Friday & Saturday 11 am - 3 am
ONE-TOPPING
for only
+tax
687-9555
Limited time offer, at participation locations only, no coupon necessary, not valid with any other offer.
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street’s 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMCI/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http://Pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/
I’ R I N C I P L K S O f S C) r N I) R K T I R K M I N T I X V K S T I N Ci
OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA 
HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
TIAA-CREF.
W
hen it comes to planning a comfort­
able future, over 1.8 million of 
America’s best and brightest count on 
TIAA-CREF. With $190 billion in assets, 
we’re the world’s largest retirement 
company, the nation’s leader in customer 
satisfaction, and the overwhelming choice 
of people in education, research and 
related Helds?
The reason? For nearly 80 years, 
TIAA-CREF has Introduced intelligent 
solutions to America’s long-term planning 
needs. We pioneered portable benefits. 
We invented the variable annuity and 
helped popularize the very concept ol 
stock investing for retirement planning.
Today, TIAA-CREF's expertise offers
an impressive range of ways to help you 
create a comfortable and secure tomorrow. 
From the guarantees of TIAA’s top-rated 
Traditional Annuity00 to the additional 
growth opportunities of our variable invest­
ment accounts, you'll fmd the flexibility and 
diversity you need to help you meet your 
long-term goals. And they're all backed by 
some of the most knowledgeable investment 
managers in the industry.
To learn more about the world’s pre­
mier retirement organization, speak to one 
of our expert consultants at 1 800 842-2776 
(8 a.m.-l 1 p.m. ET). Or better still, speak 
to one of your colleagues. Find out why, 
when it comes to planning for tomorrow, 
great minds think alike.
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."
1 Based cm a survey conducted in 14’)j by an independent organization in which %"n ot respondents expressed overall satisfaction with TIAA'CRKK 
•''TIAA is one »1 only a handlul ol companies that currently hold the highest marks Irom the nation's leading independent rating agencies lor stability, 
sound investments, claims-paving ability, and overall financial strength: A*- (Superior). A.M. Best Co.: AAA. OulV& Phelj»: Aaa. Moody's Investors 
Service: AAA. Standard and Poors. TIAAs guarantees arc hacked by its claims-paving ability. These ratings ol TIAA as an insurance company do not 
apply to CRKK CRK1" certificates are distributed by TIAA-CRKF individual and Institutional Services. Inc. For more compleie information, including 
charges and cx|>enses. call I 800 Wi-'jr.i.i. extension n.i09. for a prospcctus. Read the prospcctus carefully before you invest or semi money.
T^lTTSBURQl}
* 1KISÌ7 j^esTivAL
Sept. 12-14, 1997
l*C Light Amphitheatre and Festival Tent 
Station Square
Friday - 4 pm - Midnight * Saturday -11 am - Midnight * Sunday - 9 am - 6 pm
Storm with laria O'Lionaird Brother
m
V* • ? ' V ' '
RAMADAPLAZA SUITES
^Sprint
Sprint PCS“
(From The Pogues and 
Shane McGowan and the Popes.)
* Celtic Rock
* Iron City and Guinness on Tap
* Authentic Food, Music and Dancing
* All Ages Welcome!
* Don't miss Pittsburgh's biggest Irish Party!
$6-Adult • $3-Children,3-12yrs.(under3-free) • $12-Weekendpass
$1OFF
Good for one paid admission.
$1 off with coupon and college I.D. 
Present coupon at box office for discount, 
No cash value.

---------------------------------------------------

.Sp .dfNdo w adfopmTp gp__to uoTspflTN& w U WpeNphRpf /¦¦V'__Band keeps crowd “All Mixed Up”DH 2210
i n i i i n i i i i i
movies you may have seen before...
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, September 4
Secrets and Lies
This movie involves a topic most of us are cur­
rently trying to avoid: pregnancy. Actually, it’s 
about what happens 20 years or so after someone 
can’t get pregnant. Well, it’s sort of hard to say what 
the movie is really about, but basically there’s this 
lady Cynthia who lives in London. Her brother 
Maurice has done pretty well for himself in the 
photography business, and now that he’s all chi chi, 
the guy never invites his sis over or takes nude 
photos of her dog anymore. Meanwhile, Cynthia’s 
adopted daughter Hortense is trying to find her 
mother. Cynthia is white and Hortense is black, and 
now that she’s old enough, the two of them are going 
to sit down and have a little heart-to-heart.
At 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, September 5
The Fifth Element
Director Luc Bresson began writing his first draft 
of this script when he was 16. Both the imaginative 
story and glaring plot omissions seem to confirm 
this.
Bruce Willis plays an ex-soldier who decides to 
take on a more dangerous profession: driving a taxi. 
He’s looking for love in all the wrong places until he 
looks in his back seat and sees this mostly naked 
dame with orange hair who speaks English like 
she’s hooked on phonics.
Ian Holm (you gotta love this guy) plays a mystical 
monk waiting for her arrival because she is the 
perfect being, the fifth element. Of course, Gary 
“Tupperware-head” Oldman and a pack of mutant 
- spacedogs are also eager to meet with her. Throw in 
an incredibly effeminate and annoying radio talk 
show host with a bizarre haircut and you’ve got a 
fun-filled couple of hours for the whole family to 
enjoy, except maybe the scenes of extreme violence.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Saturday, September 6
Liar! Liar!
I was pleasantly surprised by this movie, and I 
think even those who are not big Jim Carrey fans 
will be, too. Carrey plays a successful attorney who 
is extremely good at what he does: lying. His ex-wife 
and his five-year-old son notice this trait when he 
f doesn’t show up for his son’s birthday as promised. 
Crushed, his son Max wishes that his dad couldn’t 
lie for one whole day.
Needless to say, the rest of the movie follows 
Carrey for the duration of that one day, but the film 
is not merely one amusing scene after another. 
" True, he does kick his own ass in a bathroom, but his 
love for his son is the real core of the film and not 
merely a device to stop him from lying.
* There, I did it. I didn’t lie once in that whole 
¦ synopsis. I feel so dirty.
At 8:00, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Sunday, September 7
The Wild Side 
a.k.a. Suburbia
This popular English punk thriller made in 1983 
is about a bunch of street orphans who cling to­
gether like a family until a certain tragedy (which 
will remain nameless) tears them apart like so 
many pieces of wet Kleenex. Roger Corman helped 
produce it and one of the actor’s names is Flea. 
Just Flea.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
“Care for a little necrophilia?”
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
The main difference between 
this 311 concert and the one I saw 
in November ’95 was the size of 
the audience. Radio airplay can 
do that to a band.
Last time, the audience packed 
Metropol, half was there to see 
Korn, who opened for 311. This 
time, they had Starlake Amphi­
theater filled to the rim, and ev­
eryone was there to see 311. It 
was a great opportunity for the 
band to show all those people 
who had heard “Down” or “All 
Mixed Up” on MTV or the X what 
they really are like.
The show started with hip-hop 
originators De La Soul. Al­
though we missed most of their 
set, what I did hear forced me to 
get down with my badness. Of 
course, I could have never got­
ten down with the proficiency and 
grace of De La, but then again, no 
one is perfect.
After De La Soul finished up, 
the crowd was primed for the 
main attraction. A wave of elec­
tricity shot through the crowd, 
and we refilled our cups of expen­
sive cheap beer. A sheet was low­
ered, and the roadies came on 
stage to a wild (though prema­
ture) ovation. Soon enough, the
lights went down, and 311 took 
the stage.
The first song, “Hive,” from 
their blue album, lit up the crowd. 
Everyone was dancing, from the 
pit to the nosebleed section of the 
grass. As always, they followed
required special tickets). Even 
though it was a cesspool of 16- 
year-old angst and adolescent im­
maturity, this pit was one of the 
best I’ve seen at a commercial 
show in a long time. As always, 
there were the drunken idiots
courtesy of Capricorn Records 
Last Wednesday, 311 played to a packed Starlake Amphitheater.
that little ditty with “Freak Out,” 
off their first album, Music.
By this time, we had made our 
way down to the pit area (which
who took out their testosterone 
imbalances on those around 
them, but that’s to be expected. 
They mostly pissed off each other
and forced others to step in before 
fights began.
311 played a good mix of songs 
from their four albums, includ­
ing some phat tunes off their new 
disc, Transistor. Their best mo­
ments came during songs off the 
first two albums. During 
“Homebrew,” the pit went nuts, 
and if you were there, it was swim 
or die. There were a couple of 
gems off the new one, most nota­
bly “Beautiful Disaster” and a 
song that was a hybrid of reggae 
and a spaghetti western.
Nothing topped their encore. 
They played a song off of an older 
record, then “Do You Right,” in­
troduced as “the happy 
slamdance song,” and finished, 
as always, With the thunderous 
“Fuck the Bullshit.”
311 has proved itself to still be 
a solid band, no matter how much 
people talk about their “selling 
out.” Radio airplay means only 
that other people are catching on 
to a great band. With their new 
popularity, you can expect that 
any future shows they play will 
be in large arenas and amphithe­
aters (complete with the requi­
site teeny boppers). If you con­
tinue to miss their shows, you 
should either kick yourself in the 
ass or get a second job to afford 
311 tickets.Critics give special effects bum rap
THE CRITICAL EYE
by Alex Lewin
Every summer we see a greater number of 
films that rely on visual effects, and every 
summer those effects become more elaborate 
and more expensive. The summer of’97 saw 
such effects-heavy films as Contact, Spawn, 
Event Horizon, Men in Black, The Lost World, 
The Fifth Element, Batman & Robin, Vol­
cano, and Air Force One. With the exception 
of Air Force One, and perhaps Volcano, all of 
these are films whose stories could not have 
been told without the use of CGI (computer 
generated imagery) and other computer-born 
techniques that have swamped the popular 
film industry in the 1990s.
It is easy to look at a film like Contact, 
which uses visual effects to perform other­
wise impossible camera movements (at one 
point, even a lens flare is simulated), and 
condemn visual effects as taking over the craft 
of filmmaking. But perhaps things aren’t so 
simple. As technology develops, technique must 
change. Such was the case in the 1920s with
the advent of sound film—people resisted it. If 
you put sound in film, you necessarily put 
language in film, and thus the art form would 
suddenly become region-specific. If films were 
not strictly visual, they were not universal.
Which might explain why special effects 
are easy scapegoats for critics. Event Hori­
zon and Spawn are easily labeled as “gratu­
itous.” In this decade, when film critics have 
become snobs, fans of independent films 
which purposely separate themselves from 
Hollywood blockbusters, we judge movies by 
their cohesive, dramatic story lines and dy­
namic, active characters. Any visual effects 
ought to serve the story, otherwise they are 
gratuitous. Films like Jurassic Park, Men in 
Black and Event Horizon place their charac^ 
ters as subordinate to their special effects; 
that is, characters, rather than creating the 
plot, operate within the plot (and thus the 
thrills, which come at significant points in 
the plot). Therefore, in the eyes of most 
critics, Jurassic Park, Event Horizon and 
Men in Black are bad films.
But are they? Are films about people better 
than films about dinosaurs and aliens?
Not necessarily. Certainly, the best ef­
fects-heavy films —Alien, Close Encounters 
of the Third Kind, and Terminator 2, to name 
a few — are not about the effects or the 
spectacle. They are about the people, the 
characters and their stories, and the effects 
are secondary. The worst effects-heavy films 
— Event Horizon, The Lost World — are
vehicles for the thrills created by the effects, 
and that is their reason for existing.
On the other hand, we can just as easily 
come up with a list of great people-driven 
films — Night Falls on Manhattan, Quiz 
Show, II Postino — and set it off against a 
group of lousy films which are, in spite of 
their lousiness, about characters—The Prince 
of Tides, The Bridges of Madison County, or 
Sydney Pollack’s dismal remake oí Sabrina.
The fact that a film is about characters 
rather than action does not necessarily mean 
that it is better. One can go too far with 
character (Bridges) just as one can go too far 
with visual effects (Event Horizon).
It just happens that effects-heavy films get 
more exposure, so we are more aware of how 
many bad ones there are. (Of the movies on 
the list at the top of this story, the only really 
good one is Contact.) But there are bad films 
everywhere. We should not be biased against 
big-budget, effects-laden studio films. Visual 
effects, like sound in the ’20s, are revolution­
izing the way films are made and viewed. We 
are entering an exciting phase of Hollywood 
movie-making, in which special effects are 
just as much an ingredient in good filmmak­
ing as strong, dramatic characters. Let’s see 
where it all takes us.
Alex Lewin is a senior creative /professional 
writing major who has spent half his life 
watching movies, and he intends to continue 
this practice.
2Te Rttr mTspl \TNN& leTo to 6t__pmp _T8p
By BECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Staffwriter
Franco-American Dreams, by Julie Taylor, 
is the ideal novel to read in these few weeks 
before the homework piles up to the point 
where you don’t have time to read street 
signs, let alone full-length books. It’s an 
entertaining, absorbing story featuringyoung 
characters much like yourselves, only 
trendier and on more drugs. It can hardly be 
said to tax your intelligence, but it doesn’t 
insult it either.
like those of a real college student — albeit 
one with a stylish self-designed wardrobe 
the rest of us could only dream of. At Franco’s 
house for the first time, she reminds herself 
that “Yes, I am in Franco Richards’s house,
Franco American Dreams
¦
Title: Franco-American DreamstAuthor: Julie Taylor
Publisher: Scribner PaperbackJ3.FictionVV
The novel’s narrator and heroine is Abbie 
McPhereson, a 19-year-old fashion design 
student. As Franco-American Dreams be­
gins, Abbie is fortunate enough to discover 
the epitome of masculine beauty in a club 
one night. She tumbles headfirst into ob­
sessive love/lust for Franco, for no good 
reason other than the fact that he is so 
very beautiful.
She spends the better part of the book in 
hot pursuit of him. Eventually, he’s hers. 
Only thing is, she’s too busy noticing his 
daily fun with illegal substances, careless 
treatment of her, and complete reticence 
about his personal life to be completely happy. 
The plot’s not exactly a roller-coaster ride of 
excitement, but Taylor’s writing more than 
makes up for it.
Abbie’s voice is incredibly fresh and funny. 
Her preoccupations and excitements sound
courtesy of Scribner Paperback Fiction 
Franco American Dreams portrays a girl’s college life.
about to set up Franco Richards’s owl-cov­
ered TV trays, which shortly will support the 
food that Franco Richards cooked with his 
very own hands. This just might be the coolest 
thing that’s ever happened to me. The piece
of furniture I’m parked on is not merely a 
couch, it is my very own island in paradise.” and comfortable while it’s happening.
Abbie is a very sympathetic character. Her 
predicament, in which a perfectly smart and 
sensible person falls in love and suspends all 
good judgment, is a familiar one, and seems 
authentically rendered. The whole book is 
like listening to a very verbally 
dexterous friend’s monologue about 
her love troubles, only you’re not 
expected to give any advice or reas­
surance in return.
The novel is studded with ’90s 
pop culture references. Believing 
she’s about to fail an important 
design class, she fears she’ll be 
condemned to appear on a Real-i 
World-style MTV show: “Seven 
failed designers picked to live in a 
house with no closets and have 
their lives taped.... Then I’d be a 
cult hero for all losers, sort of the 
Beck of the design world.” The al­
lusions to contemporary youth cul­
ture that Taylor slips in bring that 
much more verisimilitude to her 
portrait of the lives and loves of 
college-aged kids.
There’s something oddly satisfy­
ing about reading a serious work of 
fiction in which the characters wear 
Birkenstocks and Doc Martens and 
refer to River Phoenix’s death as a 
touchstone of sadness. Of course, 
all this up-to-the-minute 
trendiness means you won’t be 
able to read the book five years from now 
without pages of footnotes, but it’s certainly 
fun right now.
In fact, that pretty much sums up Franco- 
American Dreams. Nothing you’ll remember 
in five years, but extremely fun and familiar

---------------------------------------------------

September 2,1997September 8.1997
Secrets and Lies
will play at 7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am on Thursday 
in DH 2210.
Liar! Liar!
will play at 8.10 pm. and 
midnight on Saturday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
Suburbia
will play at 7:30! 10 pm, and 
12:30 am on Sunday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
DIGITS!
Step away from the 
console, Amish Boy.-t­1 have no Vox.
That’s pretty funny, guy. 
Oh, electric cat.
Bader likes velvet- 
wearing librarians. 
(3 weeks) o
SUBMITTO VOXnow!
Hello ExComm! rrrRRRRooooar! 
—“Chewie” 
Feliz Cumpleaños 
Anita [one day late]
watch out 
for fake 
rats
2 bits, 4 bits, 6 bits, a peso 
All for Zorro, stand
up and say so.
Kevin Wabbitt
huhuhuhuhuhuhuhuhu
take it off, 
take it all off,
Please?
you're pretty when you ’re drunk
graffiti .freefood
I’ll look like a 
jag off’n’ at.
BUNISLIVES!
Hey, we’re from 
' f I the Washington 
Post! Can we 
take your 
picture? 
Here’s 
a beer!
VoxPopuli
the voice of tlie peuple
siF uaT aHlnIOfEn fiI fInn NT Tyn TaIOaT!
II >ou kno» ol nr cvnt on o: oil cimocs mtit his telertnce 
lo vk camp« ccx.7u-.ty. im*t «.¦iCU'iCat'Orex. cmecu of 
n»i 0 lo It* Tofton. to 17 in »« Canefie Meiten Un'smity 
Ccniw 0/ IIWMr at 5 pm.
Wb Pctul « a lam open 10 nt trite comp-jj comnxrvt)! lo or.t a vsi. ir.pi, mm' k to tsfrxtfuref. cnuW.1. 
se«3 ii to The Tuttn, to 17 >ia canp-i m»l. 'or aw it kitos Wu Popuij droo Mu oo me ipfaroji Taiun Server.
Pcculi is fte^i sponsweo this *.eok tij number 2.523,633236.975. uw one Stweni» Coc-J Judge, pink tun- 
Mi erouno the MXla and this 1/0 tart.
Bruce Willis stars in The Fifth Element, the latest in a series of films about boron. It will be playing in McConomy Auditorium on Friday.
museums
The Statue of Mirrors, an installation 
by Pittsburgh choreographer and dancer 
Laura Brungard, is being exhibited at the 
Hewlett Gallery through Saturday. The 
installation features a solo dance, “now I 
see my self,” created expressly for multiple 
video cameras and monitors embedded in 
a sculpture and performed live on Thurs­
day at 5 pm. For more information, con­
tact Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
Patty!...Set The Table! will be on exhibit 
at the Hewlett Gallery from September 11 
through October 3. The installation by 
Patty Gallagher, renowned for her outland- 
ishly decorated vintage bras, will feature 
surreal settings. Visitors will be able to sit 
with lavishly dressed mannequins repre­
senting Tarot-women archetypes, dress' 
themselves in a milliner’s shop, or reveal 
their worst fashion sins in a confessional. 
For more information, contact Petra 
Fallaux at x8-3877.
readingseries
Common Grounds Coffee House: Fall 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Kelly Parker and Maurice Kilwein 
Guevara on Tuesday, September 9. Open 
poetry will take place at 8 pm and sched­
uled readings at 8:30 pm. For more infor­
mation, call 362-1190.
Presidential Interview. Dr. Jared Cohon 
will be interviewed on WRCT 88.3 FM to­
day at 5 pm. Callers are welcome and en­
couraged to call 621-WRCT or x8-WRCT 
to ask questions. WRCT is also netcast at 
http:! Iwww.wrct.org.
Psychology Colloquium Series will fea­
ture Barbara Andersen of Ohio State Uni­
versity on Wednesday at 4 pm in Baker 
Hall 355. She will speak about “testing the 
biobehàvioral model of cancer stress and 
disease course.”
Freedom of Speech. Chris Hansen, senior 
national staff counsel for the ACLU and 
the attorney who defeated the Communi­
cations Decency Act, will discuss “Freedom 
of Speech on the Internet” from 5:30 to 6:30 
pm on Thursday in McConomy Audito­
rium. This seminar is being jointly spon­
sored by the Heinz School’s Professional 
Seminar Series and the ACLU’s Greater 
Pittsburgh Chapter.
Activities Fair 1997 will take place on 
Thursday in Rangos Hall in the UC from 
4:30 to 6pm. This is an opportunity to learn 
about the various clubs and organizations 
on campus and become more involved. For 
more information, call x8-8704.
Football will open its season against 
Denison University at 1 pm in Gesling Sta­
dium on Saturday. There will be a Proces­
sional starting at 11:15 am followed by a 
pregame barbeque from 11:30am until 
12:30 pm behind Donner.
Taiwanese Student Association is spon­
soring a white water rafting trip on Sep­
tember 20. The trip will cost between $40 
and $50. For more information, contact 
Douglas Lee atdouglasl@andrew.cmu.edu.
Student Dormitory Council will be hav­
ing its first meeting this Wednesday at 
7:30 pm in Doherty Hall 1212. Participat­
ing in SDC enables interaction with ad­
ministration on campus issues and plan­
ning campus-wide events. For more infor­
mation, contact Andy Sadhwani, SDC Pub­
lic Relations, at x2-3003.
CMU Triathlon is on September 14 at 9 
am. For more information, call x8-8140.
Event Planning, sponsored by Student 
Activities, will take place on September 23 
from 5 to 8pm in the UC. Interested stu­
dents need to register at the UC Informa­
tion Desk by September 15.
courtesy of Columbia Pictures
IC Light Amphitheatre Tent at Station 
Square. The festival will feature Irish en­
tertainment, refreshments, and cuisines 
along with children’s sing-alongs, dance 
lessons, and storytelling. Also featured will 
be Blarney Bingo and the Irish’Dog Dis­
play Tent. The festival will be open on Fri­
day from 4 pm to midnight, Saturday from
11 am to midnight, and Sunday from 9:30 
am until 6 pm. Tickets are $6, $5 in ad­
vance. Weekend passes are available $12. 
For more information, call 422-5642.
aroundtown
New Media Group is sponsoring a one- 
day 3-D conference for designers, broad­
cast producers, web artists, and multime­
dia developers on Saturday at the Bayer 
Learning Center, at Duquense University 
from 10 am to 3:30 pm. The conference 
features Alex Lindsay, currently working 
for Lucasfilm on Star Wars prequels, who 
will present a seminar on getting starting 
in 3D and animation. Tickets are $99 in 
advance and $249 at the door. Lunch is 
included. For more information, call the 
New Media Group at 765-3696.
Pittsburgh Irish Festival will take place 
on the weekend of September 12-14 in the
Anti-Flag will be performing on Septem­
ber 13 with Violent Society and Whore 
House of Representatives at Laga on 
Forbes Avenue.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
open its new season on October 27 with 
the eJulliard String Quartet at Carnegie 
Music Hall. To order tickets, call 624-4129.
The King’s Noyse: English Ballads for 
Voice and Violin Band will be performed 
by David Douglass and his Renaissance 
violin band at Synod Hall and St. Paul 
Cathedral on September 27 at 8 pm. The 
program, sponsored by Renaissance and 
Baroque, will feature the lusty and refined 
music of 17th-century England. For more 
information, call 682-7262.oncampus
The Fifth Element
will play at 7:30.10 pm',.and 
12:30 am on Thursday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
University CALENDAR
