Music Fights MIS Move
by Gary Singer
In order to alleviate the overcrowding of 
the College of Fine Arts Building, the ad­
ministration has proposed a plan to move 
the Music Department into Mellon Insti­
tute of Science some time in the near fu­
ture.
Askel Arnold Bothner-by, Dean of Mel­
lon Institute of Science, stated that “there 
is general agreement among all members of 
the faculty and administration, that the 
College of Fine Arts has received the fuzzy
end of the lollypop at Carnegie.” He also 
says that because of the lack of funds, a 
solution to CFA’s plight must be found 
within the university’s present facilities.
Commenting on the Music Department 
move with regard to the present occupants 
of Mellon Institute, Dean Bothner-by cited 
the following problems: 1) sound levels 
may be disturbing especially to occupants 
of the library, which is located on the same 
floor as the Music Department is proposed 
to be placed 2) displaced offices must be 
satisfactorily relocated and 3) there is an
October 10, 1972 Volume 73 Number 5Fonda, At Pitt,
by Anne FriedmanDenounces War
Tom Haydn, Jane Fonda, and George 
Smith were in Pittsburgh last Thursday as 
part of an education and exposure tour 
concerning the issues of the Vietnam war. 
Their purpose is to expose to the “brain­
washed” public the fallacy that the war is 
actually winding down. “Bombing,” Haydn 
stated, “is occurring more than ever.” He 
remarked that the Indo—China Peace Cam­
paign is intending to continue its efforts 
until the war is over. They are using the 
time before the election to make the war 
an issue again.
The activists constantly stressed the way 
in which Nixon has developed a program to 
fool the American piblic about the war. 
“Nixon has cleverly deterred the public 
from the war issue by his Vietnamization 
policy, his new draft proposal, and his re­
turn of American troops,” claimed Fonda.
A spokesman for CMlTs Revolutionary 
Alliance states that, “The students of Car- 
negie-Mellon reflect the success of Nixon’s 
scheme. The non-interest in the war issue 
and the apathy in this university are a 
product to a great extent of Nixon’s man­
ipulations. The pitiful showing of three 
continued on page 4Student Loans For Abortions Available
Loans up to $200 are available to CMU 
students to cover costs of an abortion or 
childbirth. Medical Loan Chairwoman Su­
san Peters has announced that Student 
.Government has earmarked $2000 specific­
ally for this purpose.
“To obtain a confidential loan it is ne­
cessary to present a Student ID and a posi­
tive pregnancy test,” says Peters. The Medi­
cal Loan Committee will make arrange­
ments with a hospital and present a check 
covering expenses up to $200 to the stu­
dent. The check will be made out to the 
hospital.
Based on his or her needs, the student 
will be able to work out a monthly repay­
ment schedule.
“We’ve compiled information about the 
best and least expensive hospitals in New 
York,” says Peters. Further information is 
available in the Birht Control Handbook 
which may be obtained at the Student 
Government Office or the “Y” Office in 
Ski bo.
Susan Peters can be contacted evenings 
at 421-5513.
inherent security and health problem in 
having many students “wandering” 
through this research center. He said that if 
these three major problems can be success­
fully solved, the members of Mellon Insti­
tute would have no objection to the pro­
posed move, although he thought there 
might be more practical solutions, such as 
using the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege building as an annex for CFA.
Sidney Harth, Head of the Department 
of Music, had very different sentiments 
than Dean Bothner-by. He pointed out that 
the 215 students and 33 faculty of the 
Music Departments “provide a community 
image as well as a campus serivce.” This 
department provides service by performing 
at many campus functions, performing free 
concerts for the campus community, and 
offering private instructions to any student 
at CMU, as well as the general community, 
through the Extension Division. If the de­
partment is displaced to MIS, according to 
Mr. Harth, the Department will lose its 
close ties with the campus and it will be­
come very inconvenient for CMU students 
to attend recitals as it will be difficult for 
them to participate in the Extension pro­
gram. Another forseen location problem is 
the “close proximity to the Music Depart­
ment of a rival university (with considera­
bly reduced tuiton.)
Mr. Harth says that the Music Depart­
ment’s persent conditions at CFA are ter­
ribly inadequate. There are 106 classes a 
week held in “two and one-half’ class­
rooms. Five teachers do not have their own 
studios to instruct in. The department head 
also pointed out that none of the promises 
he has thus received concerning Mellon 
have guaranteed improvement of these con­
ditions, if they even duplicate them.
A good solution must be worked out, 
says Mr. Harth, “because if we are mobed 
to Mellon, which lacks the necessary facili­
ties, we will surely lose our students, and 
one can’t run a department without stu­
dents. I am not resistant to change, as long 
as the change will be advantageous to the 
Music Department.” Mr. Harth stated in a 
paper which he prepared for the adminis­
tration,“Carnegie-Mellon University’s Mu­
sic Department prides itself on its local 
participation, and cannot prosper in a situ­
ation that could well prove to be an 
isolated wasteland.”
Mr. Harth says that the Music Depart­
ment’s present conditions at CFA are ter­
ribly inadequate. There are 106 classes a 
week held in “two and one-half’ class­
rooms. Five teachers do not have their own 
studios to instruct in. The department head 
also pointed out that none of the promises 
continued on page 10Cyert ConsidersPitt-C-MU Coop
Politico Jane Fonda photo by Andrea Friedman
by Greg Fulton
President Richard Cyert is presently in­
vestigating proposals for cooperative pro­
grams between C-MU and the University of 
Pittsburgh. Particular programs now under 
study include cooperation between Hunt 
and Hillman libraries, computation facili­
ties, health services, research proposals and 
course scheduling operations.Coed, Coop Housing Set Up On Campus
by Debbie Siegel
In an attempt to diversify housing facili­
ties, co-ed co-ops have come into existence 
this year at CMU. At the end of last year, 
David Ginevan, Director of General Servi­
ces announced that plans would be made 
to tear down the old M and M buildings 
and the Old Sigma Rho House. Some stu­
dents suggested that these houses could be 
rented out by the University as co-ed co-op 
dorms. This opportunity provides the 
chance to live on campus and still be inde­
pendent of food service and maintenance.
The five cooperative dorms are M and M
a, b, and c, Spirit House, which is located 
in the old Beta Sigma Rho House, and 
Tech House, which is in the Home Ec 
House. Each House is run differently, but 
they all operate on some of the same basic 
principles. Individuals are assigned differ­
ent jobs each week. One person with a car 
goes for the shopping, and different people 
are assigned areas to clean up. In all houses 
except M and M b, dinner is cooked by two 
members of the house who plan the menu 
of what to serve. Lunch and breakfast are 
taken by each person to suit himself. Every 
house has a separate mail box where the 
continued on page 4
The cooperation between the Hunt and 
Hillman Libraries would center on the 
reduction of duplication of new acqui­
sitions of books and reference materials. 
“It appears to be unnecessary as well as 
wasteful for libraries within close 
proximity each to spend large amounts on 
identical volumes,” claims Cyert.
President Cyert voiced a desire to invite 
Pitt to house their two PDP-10 computers 
in the C-MU Computation Center. Doing so 
would reduce operating costs by pooling 
personnel, as well as increase the com­
puting facilities available to both Univer­
sities.
The limited health care program at 
C-MU, and its relatively high cost, has 
attracted President Cyert’s scrutiny. He has 
suggested the possiblity of merging C-MU’s 
and Pitt’s student health care facilities, 
thus obtaining more comprehensive care at 
lower cost then could otherwise be ob­
tained.
C-MU’s math department has already 
arranged for coordinating first year 
graduate level courses with Pitt. This de­
partment is also considering sharing 
faculties for higher level, and more specia­
lized graduate courses.
In the area of research, President Cyert 
feels that it would benefit both universities 
if joint operations were conducted. Re­
search teams would then reach “critical 
mass” size and generate ideas and follow 
new lines more effectively. Pitt is now for­
ming a high-energy physics group, and 
Cyert has voiced hope that C-MU’s physics 
department will lend its support and ener­
gies to their effort.
There is also a move afoot in the Pitts­
burgh area Universities to coordinate 
foreign language courses in a continuing 
manner. Students interested in pursuing 
higher foreign language studies would be 
gathered from cooperating universities and 
taught in a single course at one of the 
schools.
Cyert claims that the cooperation pro­
posals are in line with his recent reorgani 
zational attempts designed to reduce, it not 
eliminate C-MU’s operating deficit.
C-MU students are now living in coed, coop housing, 
on campus.
photo by Carl Grefenstette

---------------------------------------------------

editors note
As a front page article in last week’s TARTAN indicated, the issue of 
arming the security force is once again with us (although some members 
of the force are already armed).
Director of Security Ron Taylor has to now done a fine job of 
shaping security to the needs of this particular community. He shows an 
excellent grasp of the practical considerations in the decision over fire­
arms.The decision is quite complex. Certainly it is irrational and un­
reasonable to ask or expect unarmed security officers to intervene in cases 
of armed assault or intrusion (though they have, much to their credit). 
Yet we should certainly recall that, contrary to Pitt Security Superin­
tendent Joseph Gill, who told the TARTAN that Pitt had had no prob­
lems with armed officers, in the one shooting incident there a Pitt security 
officer was badly wounded by his own gun.
What is disturbing is that much of the hue and cry for firepower has 
been of the most reactionary “law and order” tenor. The university is 
supposedly a bastion of enlightenment and reason within society. 
Responding to the problem of crime by simply walling in the campus is 
not an action that well suits our purpose.
As a small neighborhood within a large society, C-MU cannot readily 
attack the sources of crime-poverty, prejudice, drugs, a medieval prison 
system-and as a tempting and vulnerable enclave it must somehow protect 
itself. But the decision as to the means of protection should be made after 
a period of intensive questioning and debate over the nature and causes of 
the problem, the role of the University as a segment of a troubled society, 
and the ramifications of any proposed action.
Is the answer to violence weapons for everyone? Perhaps it is. Or 
perhaps there are times when the rational is irrational.
Page 2—THE TARTAN—Tuesday October 10, 1972
Hope has suddenly developed among those concerned with the 
students’ role in campus affairs and decision making. That hope has been 
brought by Richard Cyert, a man who certainly appears to be open to all 
inputs, and frank in dealing with students on campus issues. In response to 
a TARTAN editorial criticizing rudeness and insensitivity on the part of 
some to students, President Cyert promptly asked for a meeting to discuss 
the problem. Such action we are definitely unused to. While one probably 
will be in disagreement at times with Dr. Cyert, at least disagreement is 
possible, in contrast to a previous administration whose policies one could 
never be sure of.
Gratifying as this is, it must be pointed out that the student right to 
participate should not be dependent on the benevolence (open- minded­
ness) of any individual. Those responsible for upholding the students’ 
rights must not rest or be lulled into complacency.
* * * # % #
All forms of second class citizenship or inferiority which students are 
subject to are wrong and should cease, and are open to attack by the 
TARTAN if on no grounds other than those of simple human equality, 
although other grounds exist.
Two such examples recently came to the fore. The first concerns 
Hunt Library. Students who keep books past the due date are fined, and if 
they do not pay are unable to register or graduate. Faculty may keep 
books or other materials until they are specifically requested by someone 
else; in those very few cases of faculty unwilling to return material the 
Library administration is considering billing the respective departments. 
This policy dichotomy must cease.
First choice of tickets, and more than one ticket, goes to faculty, 
selected staff, and a list of off-campus patrons. Students get last choice 
and are limited to one ticket apiece. This also should change.
******
When treated oadly or red taped, students should complain on the 
spot, to the appropriate student representative, or to the appropriate 
superior. There is no reason to tolerate being treated as inferior.
However, at least until legitimate channels have been exhausted, 
there is no reason for students to be rude or discourteous, or in any way 
less than gracious, responsible adults.Steve Jurman
Editor:
As a student at this University for three 
years, I have watched with a large amount 
of pride the growth of the Activities Board. 
What started as a glimmer of hope in a few 
peoples’ eyes a little over four years ago,, 
has managed to become, in that time, one 
of the most talked about and modeled 
programming units in the U.S.
But with a budget as large as AB gets 
($30,000 Student Senate allocation, and 
$70,000 overall operating budget), why is 
it that the AB has managed so many flops? 
The first concert of the year (Bat McGrath 
and Don Potter) only drew 400. The first 
play, held a week later, did not do much 
better. The first pay concert featured a 
group which has played to sellout crowds 
throughout the USA and Europe, yet only 
managed to fill up two thirds of the house 
and lost about $500. The second Skibo 
Ballroom concert, which will feature a 
group who has been received with wide 
acclaim everywhere they go has only man­
aged to draw 50 people. (Note: this letter 
is being written 1 day before the concert, 
and thus I have no idea as to how many 
people will eventually show up).
If we include the Seatrain concert of 
last spring, the AB’S track record shows 4 
flops in a row. I must point out, however, 
that the AB films committee is packing 
them in better than ever, and the Coffee­
house manages to play to a small but very 
loyal crowd.
But, at least to my way of thinking, the 
worst is yet to come. The ‘Annual Home­
coming Concert’ will not be a well known 
group as has been the practice for the last
10 years or so. Rather, the AB is planning 
to bring a fairly unknown group to cam­
pus, and will be putting them into the 
ballroom. The group, for those in the cam­
pus who might be interested, is Phlorescent 
Leech and Eddie, or the Mothers of Inven­
tion minus Frank Zappa. Now really, is this 
the best the AB can offer? It is true that 
the original act did cancel on rather short 
notice, but there must be better talent than 
this available!
Why is it that Student Senate sits idle 
while the AB consistently loses large sums 
of money? Why is the AB the only organi­
zation on campus which uses its subsidy to 
pay its members for everything they do? 
Every other organization on campus man­
ages to function with only a minimum (1 
or 2) paid employees, why can’t the AB? 
How is it that when the Director of the 
Activities Board, Ira Picker, and the AB 
Concert Chairman, Leslie Toth, visited the 
University over the summer to work on the 
fall program, they used AB funds to pay 
for the plane flight as well as the rooms
Editor in Chief......................Steve Jurman
Special Editor............................Mina Gerall
News Editor.................................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ..........................Steve Correl
Anne Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding 
Brandon Dula, Shelley Burhaus 
Greg Fulton, Stacy Kimble
Features Editor .......................Dave Guida
Features Staff.........................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor..............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Rick Werme, Nick Lardis
they stayed in? Isn’t that misuse of AB, or 
Student Government funds? Since when ® 
has anyone, including Mr. Picker, been al­
lowed to stock his fraternity with things 
paid for with AB money. If paying for 
plane flights from Newark and Miami 
aren’t misuse of Ab funds this has to be! 
How is all this possible, and why hasn’t 
something been done. To hear Mr. Picker 
talk to Student Senate, at least if the min­
utes are to be believed, everything is just ^ 
rosy, but I as a student do not feel that 
things are rosy, and I dj not like money 
which I earn going to waste in such a 
manner!!!
There are some very glaring inconsisten­
cies in the operation of the AB, and it is 
high time that Student Senate gets on the 
ball and does something about it. It ap­
pears that a full blown investigation of the 4 
AB’s operation is in order, and I hope that 
it comes soon, before the AB manages to 
blow its entire budget.
(name withheld by request)
Editor:
Most of the students with whom I have ^ 
contact are courteous and pleasant; there 
are some who are acerb, contemptuous, 
and arrogant. It is difficult, after a few 
encounters with students of the latter 
group, to maintain one’s sense of correct 
social behavior. The action of these few are 
certainly no excuse for any faculty or staff 
member to react in an impolite manner. 
However, after reading your article, I as- i 
sume that you want me to take your advice 
and not your example.
Maurine R. Gatto 
Secretary, Department of Music
Editor:
In the midst of anti-Rutledgism, misery 
over parking prices, and whatever other i 
unhappinesses are around, I realized the 
other day that we have a gem in our midst. 
Risking melodrama, that gem is our new 
president, Richard Cyert. It’s possible that 
many people have not as yet met him, but 
he’s truly a bright spot in the tedium of 
bureaucracy. I can’t say that I agree with 
all his philosophies nor his techniques (nor 
the techniques of his associates), but an < 
honest, open man is rare indeed these days. 
Working with Dr. Cyert has been a relaxed 
and gratifying experience. It’s a good feel­
ing to respect a man who respects me as an 
individual, but who more importantly re­
spects the student body in general.
Leslie Bram
Bruce Edelston, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein, Andrea Friedman
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders 
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera 
Nonie Dempsey, Terry Cay wood 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley 
Paula Shubock, Arnie Karr, 
Stephen Hamm
Business Manager.................Alice Bright
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout...................................Becky Carrol
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff .................................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs
Published every Tuesday during the aca­
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carnegie- 
Mellon University. Telephone (412)
682-4557.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 10, 1972-Page 3
Commentary
Election Preview: State Offices Open
by Jim Slivka
In order to inform the CMU electorate, 
the Tartan will run this column to present 
the candidates and their views in a fair and 
open symposium as well as the local issues 
which will be on the ballot this November. 
The purpose of this column is to inform 
the voters as to the duties of the office, 
and a profile on the candidates for the 
offices.
There are two state-wide offices up for 
election this year; Auditor General and 
State Treasurer, both of which are some­
times referred to as “The Watchdogs of the 
Executive Branch.” The office of Auditor 
General has the following duties: 1) audit­
ing of the state books. 2) disbursements, 
and 3) tax settlements. The Auditor Gener­
al must also keep a complete personnel 
record of all permanent employees of the 
Commonwealth. The auditing duties are 
wide and varied and should provide a check 
on the validity of all disbursements of state 
funds with few exceptions.
Among the duties of the Treasurer are:
1) to deposit all moneys of the Commen- 
wealth in approved banks, 2) to keep safely 
all securities delivered to the Treasury De-
Commentary
partment and 3) collect dividends and in­
terest on them and credit the same to prop­
er funds and to cooperate with the Auditor 
General in the examination and audit of 
requisitotions for disbursement, and in the 
adjustment of claims against the Common­
wealth. The Treasurer is also the statutory 
custodian of many funds as the Unemploy­
ment Compensation Fund and the Public 
Employees Retirement FHind. The Treasur­
er serves as the Chairman of the Board of 
Finance and Revenue and as a member of 
many important commissions.
Other state offices that will be voted on 
this year are State Senator and State Rep­
resentative in the General Assembly. The 
Representative in the U.S. Congress will 
also be chosen.
In the weeks preceeding the election the 
Tartan will review the candidates for the 
previously mentioned offices from the two 
major political parties, presenting their 
qualifications and their views on the issues 
of today. In order to make the respective 
candidates resumes similar in nature, each 
candidate for the offices will be asked the 
same questions.
The candidates for the State Legislature 
will be reviewed next week.
Rush Criticized 
'One Big Rush
/
//
by Gary Sing
Upon arriving at CMU, the unsuspecting 
freshman soon realizes that there are three 
things which shall remain constant: 1) No 
matter how hard one tries, he will never 
catch up with all his work, 2) Doherty Hall 
will always be extremely ugly, and 3) 
Every night before a test, two members of 
a “Greek” will inevitably come to your 
room and talk about everything except fra­
ternities. It is accepted as a norm that 
whenever the food service meal is just too 
“gringy” to eat, you are always able to go 
to your friendly fraternity, and “eat with 
the boys.”
Upon the arrival of October, the fresh­
man soon realizes that the fraternities 
don’t love him anymore. Just when the 
freshman male is about ready, after adjust­
ing to the first two constants (work and 
Doherty), to participate in the third 
(Frats), it is over. The fraternities cheated 
themselves and the freshmen, by deciding 
on a one month rush. The freshmen have
Cyert Wants Criteria 
To Evaluate Programs
too many other things to worry about dur­
ing their first three weeks at Carnegie, to 
concern themselves about joining a frater­
nity. It takes at least two weeks to realize 
that one cannot stand his roommate, and 
at least another two to realize that food 
service is not like the food mother used to 
make. It also takes a few weeks before 
most freshmen can begin to think, since 
the school has thoroughly drained their 
minds during classes.
The fraternities might have had a suc­
cessful turn-out this year, but the fact is, 
that Rush was one big rush. There were 
parties every other day by every other fra­
ternity. Even if one had time to visit a 
Greek house, he couldn’t possibly have had 
time to give each a try. Rush should occur, 
at a much more civilized and slower pace, 
for at least the whole first semester. Then 
when it comes to paying Housing for next 
term, the freshman just might change the 
“Pay to the order of’ on his check. At 
least he would have had a change to write 
it.
by Jeff Ganek
“There is a tendency to define problems 
within an organizational context. It may be 
more fruitful, however, to make whole new 
definitions of problems, including the 
changing of organizational arrangements,” 
said C-MU President Dr. Richard Cyert in a 
recent speech. In a talk before the Pitts­
burgh chapter of the American Society for 
Public Administration he presented 
management techniques he has used during 
his young administration as methods to be 
copied for effective management of non­
profit organizations.
Since taking office in May, Cyert has 
reorganized the Operations Division (food 
service, housing, etc.) of the University. 
Many University employees were laid off as 
Cyert instituted new efficiency practices 
through his new head of Operations, Dr. 
Ronald Rutledge. Reorganization of aca­
demic operations is coming about through 
a much slower process.
Action has been initiated that will direct 
C-MU’s academic bodies towards a decen­
tralized administrative structure. After a 
period of planning and goal setting, Cyert 
has promised to place much more decision 
making power at the college and depart­
mental levels. “This is proper because the 
decisions in the academic units can best be 
made at that level, since the information is 
best there, ” he claims.
Reactions to the new moves from the 
college and departmental levels have been 
highly favorable. Dr. Richard Heckel, head 
of the metallurgy department, sees more 
interaction among departments growing 
out of the decentralization move.
Dr. Lester Lave, head of the economics 
department substantiated Heckel’s view by 
noting the applied nature of the research 
most funding organizations want to 
finance. “The pure research we’ve seen in 
the past is much sparser now,” he claims. 
“Applied problems that are receiving atten­
tion today often require expertise from 
two or more disciplines.” C-MU, he noted 
receives much of its income from research 
grants. By charging departments to be con­
cerned with their own sources of income, 
Lave contends that Cyert is encouraging 
interdisciplinary cooperation.
Cyert also spoke of the problem of 
evaluating non-profit organizations. “The 
gross measure is not whether or not the 
budget is in balance or in surplus,” he 
claimed. He emphasized the need for the 
University to serve society’s needs. The 
President said that he would encourage 
each department to be sensitive to these 
needs by threatening them with a loss of
priority on his scale for resource allocation.
H&SS Dean Irwin Steinberg said, “I 
don’t know how to measure society’s 
needs”, He claimed his college would be 
careful to try to be aware of those needs. 
He also noted that he watches trends in the 
college’s self-defined majors curricula and 
student reaction to new and old programs.
Heckel claimed that innovation in his 
department would come from those places 
it always had. “Innovation is spontaneous 
within our department. There is no need to 
impress upon our faculty the need to serve 
society.” He cited the engineering and pub­
lic affairs major and the law and tech­
nology program as examples of such 
innovation.“The existing system is not 
being challenged.”
Dr. Orville Winsand of Painting and 
Sculpture said his department would be 
soliciting opinions of alumni as to what 
needs to be taught. He expects his depart­
ment will be as receptive as ever to change.
Cyert maintained that he would be 
better able to manage the University be­
cause of his use of analytical techniques. 
He was careful to make clear that analy­
tical techniques are not necessarily mathe­
matical. He has advocated the increased use 
of operations research techniques. “There’s 
always the danger that quantification may 
oversimplify,” noted Steinberg. “But as 
long as we are aware of the dangers and 
take precautions, modern mathematical 
techniques may be very helpful.” The Dean 
did not know of any particular precautions 
that had been taken.
The Bookstore will be distributing the five 
percent book rebate November 23 and De­
cember 15. All textbooks are subject to 
this rebate which shall be paid upon pre­
sentation of the receipts. All rebates not 
claimed by December 15 will be turned 
over to Student Government.
Final details on the distribution of the 
rebate will appear in a future issue of the 
Tartan.
The Activities Board is sorry to 
announce that Mark-Almond, originally 
scheduled for Friday, October 20, has been 
postponed tentatively until November 18. 
On Friday, October 20, WRCT, in co­
operation with Camed Productions, will 
present Isaac Hayes in the Syria Mosque. 
The Activities Board will present on Satur­
day, October 21st, Moogy and the Rhythm 
Kings for 50 cents with an AB Card in 
Skibo Ballroom.
¦v «TL.Q1 FiXrl]
m\iJl/Olil©DiteJ Mwife®
BIRTH CONTROL HANDBOOK
*
FREE 
SKIBO INFO. DESK

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 10, 1972Gladys Schmitt 
Dies Suddenly
Steel Symphony 
In World Premier
Gladys Schmitt, well known Pittsburgh 
novelist, and Thomas S. Baker Professor in 
English Literature at CMU, died unexpec­
tedly at about 4:00 am last Tuesday morn­
ing. She was 63 years old. She is survived 
by her husband, Simon Goldfield, and a 
daughter, Betty Schmitt Culley, of Kent, 
Ohio, and two grandchildren.
Miss Schmitt is the author of eleven 
novels including three Literary Guild selec­
tions, “A Small Fire,” “David the King,” 
and “Rembrandt.”
. On September 22 of this year she was 
presented the CMU Ryan Award for Meri­
torious Teaching for 1972 for “excellence 
in teaching.” The award was presented by 
CMU President Richard M. Cyert. In 1970, 
she was appointed the first holder of the 
Thomas S. Baker Professorship, a disting­
uished chair in literature at CMU.
At the time of that honor, Dr. Arthur 
Eastman, head of the department of Eng­
lish, said that Miss Schmitt was chosen for 
the new chair not only for her literary 
achievements, but also for her excellence as 
a teacher. “Miss Schmitt’s work in develop­
ing courses and curriculum has been an 
invaluable halp to the department, and her 
outstanding abilities as a teacher are con­
tinually reflected in the work and esteem 
of her students. The appointment is also a 
fitting tribute to Miss Schmitt’s long associ­
ation with the University.”
Miss Schmitt received her bachelor of 
arts degree in 1932 from the University of 
Pittsburgh and was an assistant editor of 
Scholastic Magazine from 1933 to 1942. A. 
Phi Beta Kappa, Miss Schmitt’s honors in­
clude the Witter-Bynner National College 
Poetry Award, the Dial Press Award, and
Coed Housing
continued from page 1
mail is delivered directly there.
Dean Milligan has advocated, “The stu­
dent in these new co-op dorms don’t seem 
to want to be a part of the real campus 
community.” Mike Kearney from M and M 
b responded, “We want to be part of a 
Co-op Council where we can devote time 
to the problems which affect our kind of 
living set-up. Our problems are different 
than other dorms.”
Each of the houses have been rented on 
different premises. M and M a and b resul­
ted from groups of friends who got toget­
her looking for a place to live. They looked 
to find other acquaintances who would be 
interested in such living quarters. These 
dorms are both co-ed. M and M a has the 
distinction of owning a piano which was 
left by the previous occupants of the 
house, M and M c was set up from a group 
of freshman intramural teams called the 
Easy Beefy Prime and the Stronzos. There 
are eight men in the house and they are 
still looking for one more boarder, male or 
female. This house has plans of giving it up 
for someone else to rent when its’ members 
graduate in twp years. The other M and M 
dorms would like to keep their houses go­
ing on with new poeple coming in all the 
time. The university has given each house a 
purchase order from Sears of about 
$150.00 to order objects such as plates and 
silverware.
The Spirit House is inhabited by Black 
students who belong to the social organiza­
tion of Spirit on campus. They are allowed 
to live in the house if they have done some 
kind of service or activity in the organiza­
tion. The housing manager of Spirit has 
said, “We want our members to pay their 
room and board directly to Spirit and we 
hope to mortgage the house which is now 
under the control of the university.” The 
new Tech House is all male, and run on the 
principles of Christian Community. Father
an Honorary Doctor of Letters degree from 
the University of Pittsburgh in 1961.
In the fall of 1969, Miss Schmitt presen­
ted the Hunt Library at CMU with a com­
plete collection of her notebooks and man­
uscripts.
Miss Schmitt’s most recently published 
book is the novel, “The Godforgotten”, a 
Book-of-the-Month Club alternate, pub­
lished last spring by Harcourt Brace and 
Jovanovich. Among her other writings are 
the novels “Gates of Aulis,” “Alexandra,” 
“The Presistent Image,” and “Confessors 
| of the Name.”
Fonda and Hayden
continued from page 1
people at a recent Alliance meeting was 
indicative of the students’ feelings toward 
the war.” Smith, Fonda, and Haydn elabor­
ated on Nixon’s deceptions during their 
stay.
George Smith, a former member of the 
Green Berets held as a prisoner of war for 
two years in North Vietnam stated that the 
POW issue has been distorted in this coun­
try. “The public is responding to the issue, 
as it is an emotional one.” Smith tried to 
expose the fallacy of the argument that the 
U.S. is staying in Indo—China until the 
POWs are released. “The only outcome is 
that while the military is there, more A- 
mericans are getting captured.” He also 
went on to say that in no other war have 
the POWs been released until the war is- 
over. Smith pointed out that there is a 
deception concerning the treatment of 
POWs. He does not, by his experience, be­
lieve that they are the worse treated in 
history. “The enemy has a human con-
Walsh lives on the premises and mass is run 
every day at 4:30 except on Wednesdays 
when it is run at 6:30 and a dinner is 
served to anyone who comes. Of all the 
Co-ops, Tech House is the only one which 
belongs to the Men’s Dorm Council. One of 
its Boarders attributed this fact, “We like 
the privledges which the dorm council of­
fers. For example, we can use their washing 
machines and we were using their showers 
before ours were installed.” During the 
summer, members of the houses came to 
fix the houses and make them more com­
fortable. Various members of the commu­
nity have pointed out, “We depend upon 
the university to make the major improve­
ments in our houses. We can only do the 
minor adjustments.”
The first co-ed dorm in the university 
was Welsh Hall. This is run as the other 
dorms except that it is co-ed. There is no 
community cooking. John Williams, a stu­
dent from Welsh has said, “We like living in 
a friendly community with the people of 
our choice. Co-ed makes it a more natural 
situation with friends. A distinction in 
Welsh are decorations on the hall walls and 
many dorm meetings.”
In the new co-op houses and Welsh, the 
semester rate is slightly cheaper than in 
other dorms. The very first co-op house 
was begun in 1961 at Lyndon Hall. At this 
time kitchen necessities cost ninety cents a 
person, the gift fund was 24 cents and 
general costs were $150 per semester. This 
was an honor dorm where a student needed 
above a 2.75 average and good housekeep­
ing habits in order to qualify for occupan­
cy. When the parking lot was built Lyndon 
Hall was tom down and the co-op disap­
peared. Dean Milligan cites, “When you 
consider that it wasn’t till 1965 that we cut 
a curfew for Seniors, the state of housing 
has changed quite rapidly.”
A CMU Professor’s latest work will be 
given a world premier by the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra this season.
The Symphony will perform “Steel 
Symphony” by Leonardo Balada, 
well-known composer and associate pro­
fessor of composition at CMU, January 12 
and 14. The performance will be conduc­
ted by associate conductor Donald 
Johanos.
Another of Professor Balada’s works, 
“Maria Sabrina”, an oratorio for narrator, 
chorus and orchestra with text by one of 
Spain’s foremost contemporary writers,
At Pitt
science and I was treated as well as any 
human being can be in the circumstances,” 
he stated. Smith went on to say that when 
he was released the U.S. military forbade 
him to tell anyone that he had received a 
red cross package when he was a prisoner. 
“The POW situation is a real one, however 
the Administration has filled the American 
people with unnecessary dramatic emotion­
alism over the issue, so they can put their 
energies where the government desires, and 
people can easily forget the other aspects 
of the war,” he concluded.
Jane Fonda, who just returned from a 
visit to North Vietnam, gave a vivid de­
scription of the effects of the bombing, 
“Four million are homeless, four million 
bombs have fallen (more than in World War
II). I saw women whose bodies were muti­
lated, children with no hands or feet, na­
palm victims twisted out of shape, and 
people vomiting to death from a gas called 
CS.” She stated she feels that it is necessa-
Fall
Camilo Jose Cela, will have several per­
formances this season. Among them will be 
renditions by the National Orchestra of 
Spain, conducted by Fruhbeck de Burgos, 
in Madrid Dec. 1,2, and 3; the CMU orches­
tra and chorus, in connection with the In­
ternational Poetry Forum, December 4; 
and the Louisville Orchestra, conducted by 
Jorge Mester, which will perform and re­
cord the oratorio in February.
Professor Balada recently completed a 
composition for amplified classical guitar 
and orchestra, “Persistencias,” commis­
sioned by the world-renowned guitarist 
Narciso Yepes.
ry for the American public to understand 
that their tax dollars are supplying the 
bombs. Miss Fonda believes that it is 
worthwhile for Americans to visit Hanoi in 
order to understand what the U.S. is actu­
ally doing there. “It was only through 
these visits, ” she explained,“that the pub­
lic became aware of the bombing of the 
dikes in August.” Miss Fonda’s point was 
that Nixon is creating a great deception 
concerning the bombings, reporters are not 
allowed in certain areas, so the public only 
hears and sees half the story.
Members of the Indo-China Peace tour 
believe that it is necessary for the public to 
be informed and educated about the issues 
before the election.
Haydn expressed optimism about the 
Peace Campaign’s prospects. CMLPs Reviv- 
olutionary Alliance spokesman said from 
her observation of anti-war sentiment on 
campus that there was no reason for her to 
be so hopeful.
CampaignIssuesForum*
FALL CAMPAIGN ISSUES FORUM 3
Wednesday, October 11 7 pm Ski bo Ballroom
AMERICAN POLICY IN VIETNAM
FRANCIS FITZGERALD: Ms. Fitzgerald is a free lance writer who has spent
several years in Vietnam. She is the author of the 
widely acclaimed series on Vietnam in the New 
Yorker and which has recently been published as 
a book by Random House.
LEON GOURE: Professor Goure' was formerly Senior Staff Member
of the RAND Corporation and head of RAND's 
research work on Vietnam. Currently, Dr. Goure 
is a Professor of International Studies and Director 
of Soviet Studies at the Center for Advanced 
International Studies, University of Miami.
^ These debates are open to the public.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 10, 1972-Page 5
Comment. ... - t% Actress Sada Thompson
Who’s Listening? To Be Honored
by David Stewart
Hello. Do you feel particularly inferior 
today? Don’t worry, you probably are. But 
you really shouldn’t lose any sleep over it 
because there is a solution to your prob­
lem. It’s called pretending (as opposed to 
dishonesty, trickery and deceit which are 
unpatriotic if not treasonous acts.)
Did you ever think about how much 
pretending goes on in the course of a day? 
It’s practically an American institution. 
Everyone’s always trying to appear just a 
little smarter, dumber, wealthier, funnier 
or cooler than they actually are.
C’mon, admit it, you do it too. But it’s 
all right because everybody does it and 
everybody knows it and if you don’t peo­
ple will think you do anyway so you’d 
better. (Don’t shake your head. Pretend 
you understand and keep reading). If you 
work at it diligently, you can become a 
world-class faker in no time.
As a beginner there are certain things 
you must know. First, some knowledge 
and awareness are necessary, just to make 
you sound believable. Two techniques are 
helpful here, headline scanning and periph­
eral fact assimilation. Periodically, twice a 
month or so, scan the headlines and tables 
of contents of the leading magazines and 
newspapers. Reading of articles is unneces­
sary; just know what people will be talking 
about. In order to flesh out your skeleton 
of “knowledge”, learn specific facts such as 
titles and authors of books, names of heads 
of state, and several quotes or statistics.
Have these at your command, ready to 
drop into conversations at a moment’s 
notice. This technique can also be applied 
to specific areas like art, drama or sports 
and the good faker is usually accomplished 
in at least two fields.
Beware though, you can be spotted. If 
you’re heard to say, “The Osmond 
Brothers, how disgusting. Play something 
heavy like Grand Funk.” or “Rod McKuen, 
what corn, give me Edgar Guest any day,” 
then the jig is up. Avoid saying “heavy” or 
“far-out”. Look in your closet. If you find 
a Nehru jacket and medallion, burn them 
quickly and before anyone sees them. If 
you don’t understand Sesame Street, don’t 
sweat it, just hum a few bars of “Roosevelt 
Franklin” and no one will be the wiser. I 
once saw a faker being discovered when he 
thought Black September referred to the 
New York power failure. Another time a 
few years ago at a Women’s Lib rally, the 
smoke from the burning rubber in a young 
faker’s padded bra nearly asphyxiated 
twelve people. It was pathetic to watch her 
agony at being discovered. Please be 
careful.
Once you’ve gained some expertise you 
can employ the art of pretending to have 
some fun. If you find yourself on a crowd­
ed bus, pretend that you have a tic, an 
involuntary wink, etc. Then watch your 
fellow passengers trying not to look at you. 
Hilarious. But don’t miss your stop. Or get 
a friend and have a conversation in a ficti­
tious language. Watch people’s faces. It 
beats reading advertisements for Prepara-
Sada Thompson, highly acclaimed lead 
in the recent Broadway production of 
Twigs, will be honored by the Alumni 
Association of C-MU at homecoming 
ceremonies in Pittsburgh, October 20.
The 1949 drama graduate of C-MU’s 
College of Fine Arts will be presented with 
a Merit Award “in recognition of her out­
standing achievements as an actress.”
The award is one of several presented 
annually to alumni for outstanding pro­
fessional achievements or service to the 
University.
Playing four characters in Twigs, she 
received a Tony for the best female perfor­
mance of the 1971-72 season, the Outer 
Circle Critics Award, and the Variety Poll 
Award, for the best off-Broadway lead. In
1970 she won three major awards for her 
performance in The Effects of Gamma 
Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds: the 
Variety Poll Award; the Vernon Rice- 
Drama Desk Award, for the outstanding 
achievement in an off-Broadway pro-
tion H. Here too, caution must be exer­
cised. Once while on a streetcar, 1 was 
faking a twitch to a vast woman with a 
babushka and yellow pop-beads. Unfortu­
nately, a large, mean person thought 1 was 
winking. 1 got off at the next stop even 
though it wasn’t mine.
Anyway, I hope you’ve picked up a few 
pointers on pretense. Even if you haven’t, 
pretend that you have. Humor me.
duction; and the Obie Award, the off- 
Broadway equivalent of an Oscar.
She also received an Obie in 1965 for 
her performance at Lincoln Center in 
Tartuffe, and in 1959 for Ivanov. She won 
a second Vemon Rice Drama Desk Award 
in 1957 for her performance in The River 
Line. “Harper’s Bazaar” in 1970 cited her 
for giving the finest performance of the 
theater season in Marigolds, and selected 
her as one of the “100 Women in Touch 
with the Times”.
She has performed at various times at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse, San Diego’s Old 
Globe Theater, and on Broadway. She 
spent six summers with the American 
Shakespeare Company, and has also 
worked with the Milwaukee Repertory 
Company and the Scandinavian Theater 
Company. She has appeared in two films, 
Desperate Characters and Pursuit of 
Happiness, and has played various roles on 
television.
In 1969 she was elected to a five-year 
term on the Council of Actor’s Equity 
Association. She is a native of Des Moines, 
Iowa, and now resides in Jackson Heights, 
New York. Her husband, Donald Stewart» 
is a 1952 graduate of Camegie-Mellon.
Birth Control Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
Come Meat...
Com
eMat.Lw
((
Talk On
Zhe Zwcntietk Century 
and Other Insanities"
SATURDAY, OCT. 14, 
8:00 P.M. 
SKIBO BALLROOM
Free With C-MU I. D. $1.75 Without

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 10, 1972
-Tc-CchnTl-Tc
Record Review
The Fabulous 
Rhinestones
by Steve Perkins
This album was one of about ten or 
fifteen promotional albums sent out by 
record company publicity departments 
which sat in the Tartan office gathering 
dust all summer. The reason why this one 
has been honored by my attention is that it 
was the only one of the ten or fifteen 
besides John Lee Hooker’s latest I had ever 
heard of. Heard of in this case means I saw 
them billed second with some other group 
I’ve since forgotten on the schedule for the 
Saratoga Performing Arts Center.
The promotional material sent out with 
the album talks a lot about rock n’ roll, 
since that is so fashionable these days, and 
says something about the guys in the group 
hanging around a big old house somewhere 
in upstate New York and jamming for a 
year or so. Shades of the Band. The musi­
cians do look like a rather rustic crew and 
the inside jacket has them pictured driving 
tractors and shooting rifles, so it comes as 
quite a surprise when you actually put the 
record on and the music they play turns 
out to be a very urban sounding brand of- 
rhythm and blues. Nor is there really much 
rock n’ roll if by that word you mean 
Chuck Berry type rock n’ roll or the more 
recent Johnny Winter interpretations there 
of. At this point you could become very 
cynical about all the promotional hype, 
especially when you realize that the Rhine­
stones are working in a very commercial 
idiom and they really aren’t too innovative, 
but to dismiss them that lightly would be 
unfair-the Rhinestones are a very tight 
little band and quite enjoyable to listen to.
Catagorically, the Fabulous Rhinestones^, 
could fit in somewhere between the J.J. 
Geils Band and Chicago. The main 
strengths of the group are their tight 
rhythm section and tight ensemble playing. 
The members of the band all come from a 
similar background of R and B oriented 
groups and session work. Two of the 
Rhinestones, bassist Harvey Brookes and 
conga player EHno Andino were with the 
Electric Flag. All the musicians in the 
group are quite accomplished but are not 
given to a lot of solo playing since the 
group seems to emphasize the ensemble 
sound. Particularly outstanding in the en­
semble, however, is Harvey Brookes’ bass 
work. His playing is rhythmically precise 
and at the same time highly inventive and
Films and Television
Reactions, Various and Otherwise
by Frederick Gormley
—Written originally on a paper napkin at 
Shadyside Hospital.
I have allowed three weeks to asses¿ 
reaction to my premiere column, and to 
formulate and solidify my defense. But I 
need no counterattack: frankly, reaction 
was minimal. What reply I got ranged from 
favorable but non-constructive (“Oh, 
Wow!”), mixed and constructive (“The gay 
part was fine, but your review was hardly 
fresh.”), negative and non-constructive (“It 
was tired, Fred.”) to blank (“You wrote a 
column? Where?”).
My statements on my sexuality didn’t 
put my life in danger (I didn’t think they 
would), but aroused a sporadic and strange 
sort of admiration that I temper with two 
facts. Number one: A qniversity is a very 
safe place to state one’s predilections. One 
could have a carnal relationship with a 
player piano 50 years his senior and no one 
would care. (In fact, my music major 
friends tell me...). Et deux: this columnist 
is hardly the first or only person to express 
pride in being gay. (There is pride to be 
had.) Others are just as vocal, proud, and 
unapologetic as I. Take note around the 
end of October when Pittsburgh hosts The 
Pennsylvania State Gay Rights convention.
Skipping backwards to the criticism, I 
found the “mixed and constructive” 
opinion most helpful in regards to this and 
future columns. It is true-I had read most 
of the important reviews of the Allen 
movie (Everything You Always Wanted to 
Know About Sex, etc.), and my criticism 
(interesting premise, disappointing visually)
was the consensus of those other writers. 
But I must defend myself-it was an agree­
ment and not a plagiarism of thought. Un­
less one is New York based, one’s reviews 
most likely will not be new. Seeing some­
thing fresh is hard in Pittsburgh, since this 
town never gets more than half a world 
premier every other leap year.
So, elitists and status-seekers, this brings 
me to a naughty word- television. What 
you see on TV may not exactly be “fresh”, 
but you’ll get that stale fare exactly the 
same time the East Village does.
I found a lot of time to watch television 
in the hospital. When you are flat on you* 
back in the hospital and your rommate is a 
sixty-year-old man who can discuss nothing 
as passionately as the newest John Deere 
Tractors, television has conversation beat 
swords over plowshares. Except that these 
particular swords, i.e., television and 
barbed dialogue of any sort, are still being 
blunted by censorial network executives. 
Certainly, Archie B. may have provoked 
gasps (Do people gasp at TV?), but lately 
one is more likely to be taken aback by the 
laxity of production and the dullness of 
wit of that particular series. And they said 
they had a fall for us? How did they mean 
that?
They started with some good pre-season 
stuff. The best piece of television I can 
remember happened with Liza Minnelli’s 
special a few weeks back. And then came 
premier week and I was more than mildly 
pleased. There was “Maude”, a very good 
answer to “All in the Family” for liberals. 
Bea Arthur, as Maude, carried the show,
every slick scene of it. She was droll, even 
down to her crafty gesticulations which 
permeate the characterization. The story 
was smooth and bright, and supporting 
actors were with one exception, uh, ex­
ceptional. The following week, the woman 
playing Maude’s daughter began to grate on 
the nerves with her ineffectuality. By the 
third week, every laugh was dictated. One 
couldn’t smile without the prompting of 
the script. I don’t think I can take too 
much of that sort of thing, and as I enjoy 
“Maude” enough, I’ll probably watch it 
every six months or so. Or whatever inter­
val is sufficient rest from the prodding that 
Norman Lear gives us with each of his 
shows.
Perhaps that is a good measure to take 
with the majority of television (until 
America picks up on the British notion of 
running a series with a definite lifespan, 
popular or not). I shall do that with “The 
Bob Newhart Show” (I like it for its basic 
assumption that all women aren’t Lucille 
Ball, ready to pop a pineapple on their 
heads to sneak into Ricky’s nightclub 
chorus line), and maybe “Bridget Loves 
Bemie”. (I may have seen too much of 
that, though. I’m neither Catholic or 
Jewish, but two weeks of that relatively 
pleasant show have already alienated me).
I wish I had thought to turn off 
“Laugh-In” when I liked it. It’s grown to 
be a desperate, tedious monster that should 
consider euthanasia-although running out 
to the studio where the show is produced 
and trashing it appeals more to the 
romantic in me.
flawlessly smooth. Guitarist Kal David and 
keyboard man Marty Grebb write most of 
the group’s material as well as handling the 
lead vocals. David sings in a straightforward 
baritone voice quite close to the style of 
Chicago’s, while Grebb tends to be more 
soulful.
Most of the songs recorded on this al­
bum seem to fall into three catagories. 
First are the up tempo movers which build 
up considerable energy and tension as they 
go and are fairly even rhythmically. These 
are represented by “Free”, and “Never 
Again” the latter of which features some 
fine harmonica work by Paul Butterfield. 
The second type are wistful ballads such as 
“Easy As You Make It”, and “living On
My Own Time”, which sound like some­
thing written for a Motown solo artist. 
Finally, there are the funky strut type 
numbers built on syncopated bass riffs, 
exemplified by “Just Can’t Turn My Back 
On You”, and “Live it Out To the End”. 
Perhaps the best cut on the album is a 
ballad-type thing called “What A Wonder­
ful Thing We Have”, which sounds a lot 
like something Junior Walker might do and, 
even ends with a fade on a Walker-styled 
sax solo. The arrangement is superb and it 
contains a beautiful lyric guitar solo.
The band finally does get around to 
doing something with acoustic guitar and 
pedal steel to make good their rustic 
appearances. It’s called “Big Indian” and
features some smooth and tasty wah-wah 
guitar work. The chordal structure of “Har­
monize” sounds a lot like something the 
Band would do but the interpretation is 
still R and B. “Positive Direction” which 
ends the album is sort of a low-down blues 
with a couple of fast instrumental breaks 
thrown in here and there.
The Fabulous Rhinestones are basically 
of the stuff that top 40 hits are made of, 
but why be a snob-their music is well put 
together and they’ve managed to come up 
with several really nice tunes. The Rhine­
stones’ music embodies a kind of cool pro­
fessionalism but seems quite sincere at the 
same time, and I don’t think they’re in it 
just for the money - at least yet.
THE .UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
PRESENTS A
WITH
DONALD BYRD 
NATHAN DAVIS 
RICHARD DAVIS 
ROLAND HANNA 
MAX ROACH 
CLIFFORD THORNTON
ONCERT
A tribute to the late John Coltrane
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20,1972 
8:30 P.M. 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
In connection with the University of Pittsburgh Seminar on Jazz. 
Sponsored by Pitt, the Student Government Association, the School 
of General Studies Student Cabinet and the Gulf Oil Corporation. 
Subsidized by the student activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 10, 1972-Page 7
Paul Winter 
Consort
October 7, 1972
TGlf
» Vlfe// M ^ ^at cue- ? ”
(> sfes'tOO sViuO'j ?
(< Mifet" d&cÀ ’tfófa/oc I ” tf (Jo sy\t JtnóLté /ne.’
(( A/^t! tCdf ove.—*' I
(T^Aour Uakit^c^-^^f^s/dd.-.. ihST; 
mx fòorr\A0 ’1<r W/... »’
«-¦ ^/IWi-t
ll/tuztdb}^ 'fcndt*one.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 10, 1972
Announcements:
Ferdinand Roten Galleries will hold an
exhibition sale of original graphic art in the 
Fine Arts Faculty Room on Tuesday, Oc­
tober 24 from 10 am to 5 pm.
The Film Workshop will present an open
screening of films by former CMU film­
makers Ron and Don Patnik, and Rick 
Braverman and Gene Scaramuzzo on Wed­
nesday, October 11 at 7:00 in Baker Hall 
232F. The filmmakers will be present to 
discuss the creative process that was in­
volved in the making of these films. Open 
to the public.
The Kansas City Poetry Contests are a
combined effort to discover poems of ex­
cellence. Deadline for entering the $1,600 
competition is Feb. 1, 1973.
Top prize in the tenth annual event is 
the Devins Award of $500 cash and consi­
deration for publication of a book-length 
poetry manuscript by the University of 
Missouri Press. The Devins Award is open 
to all poets.
For complete contest rules, send a 
stamped, self-addressed business envelope 
to Poetry Contest, P.O. Box 5313, Kansas 
City, Mo. 64131.
There will be a meeting of the Activities
Board Concert Committee Wednesday at 
4:30 in Skibo Room 33. Anyone interested 
may attend.
Food Service Coupon Books will be sold at
both Skibo and the Bookstore, still with its 
5 percent discount.
MDC will sponsor a mid-term mixer on
Saturday, October 14, at 9 pm, in the 
Donner Hall Lounge. Rides from off- 
campus can be obtained by phoning 
687-7480.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will offer the following
classes in the Free University to be held on 
the 3rd floor, Y-ICK Building, 315 S. Belief 
field Avenue. A Talmud class will be held 
on Mondays, starting October 9, from 3:15 
to 5:00 pm. in Rabbi Sigal's office. An 
Ethics class will be held on Wednesdays, 
starting October 4, from 11 am to 12 
noon, in Rabbi Sigal's office. A third class 
on Jewish Thought will be held on Monday 
evenings, starting October 9, at 7:30 pm in 
Mellon Living Room, Chatham College. 
For further details call 621-8875.
The Chatham-CMU German Film Series
presents "Hokuspokus", a comedy, on Oc­
tober 11 in Porter Hall 100 at 7:45. The 
film is free.
New Legal Service for Students: If you are
a student with a legal related problem and 
need legal counseling, call Student Help 
Center, 683-2133.
Have problems? Need help? Call the Help
Center, 683-2133, for information and re­
ferral for legal, medical, drug and emotion­
al problems. 24 hour answering service,
683-2133.
Award-winning author Jonathan Kozol will
speak on ''Political Indoctrination in the 
Public Schools'' on Wednesday, October 11 
at 8:30 pm, in the Chatham Chapel. His 
book, ''Death at an Early Age: The De­
struction of the Hearts and Minds of Negro 
Children in the Boston Public Schools,” 
received the National Book Award. His 
most recent book, published this past 
March, is ''Free Schools.”
Home or Office
AN ADDRESS OF DISTINCTION
A limited number of select Studio rooms and Suites — 
all air conditioned — are still available.
Monthly Rentals from $160.00
In the heart of the University-Cultural Center, here is 
truly an address of distinction, a location of conven­
ience, a life-style of leisure.
• 24 Hr. Switchboard & 
Message Service
• Coffee Shop, Restaurant & 
Lounge
• Room Service
Adjacent Parking
• Maid & Porter Service
• Automatic Elevators
• Barber Shop &
Beauty Parlor
• 24 Hr. Security
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
4415 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
621-7700
“All The Conveniences Of Home And Then Some"
earthworks exchange
Pittsburgh's handcraft marketplace
209 no. craig st.
683-6818
open 11-6 tues- sat.
The Activities Board will sponsor an infor­
mal talk with Rod Serling for all interested 
students at 1:30 p.m. in the Skibo Ball­
room on Saturday, October 14.
William Masselos will open the 47th annual
Y-ICK Music Series with a piano recital on 
Wednesday, October 11 at 8:15 p.m. at the 
Oakland Y-ICK, 315 S. Beliefield Ave. 
Vividly remembered for his last exciting 
appearance at the Y a few years ago, Mr. 
Masselos will play three major keyboard 
works with two short intermissions sep­
arating them. His program includes the 
Piano Fantasy (1955-57) by Aaron 
Copland, Davidsbundlertanze by 
Schumann, and the Liszt Sonata in B 
Minor.
Yoga, Held every Thursday 7-9 pm, Skibo
room 39.
Personals:
Dear John,
I'm getting tense!
Oh Johnny,
Love means never having to say you're 
sorry.
e vents
Thursday
Film Arts: "Alenander Nevesky”. 4:30, 
7:00,9:30, PH 100.
Film Studies: "The Art Conservator,”
"Kinetic Art in Paris,” "The Impression­
ists”. 7:30, Benedum Auditorium, Pitt.
Friday
Rod Serling Shorts: Twilight Zone and 
Night Galleries. 6:00, 8:15, 10:30, DH 
2210. Free (Activities Board).
Film: "The Dirty Dozen”. 7:00,9:30, 120 
. David Lawrence Hall, Pitt. Free (Social 
Committee).
Political Forum: McGovern and Nixon rep­
resentatives. 10:00 pm. Crumbling Wall 
Coffeehouse, 4515 Forbes.
Saturday
Rod Serling Speaks: ”20th Century and 
other Absurdities", 8:00 pm, Ballroom. 
Free (Activities Board).
MDC Film: "Robbery". 5:30, 8:00, 10:30, 
DH 2210, Free.
Pangborn Films: "Bullitt”, "Brewster
McCloud". 6:30, 120 David Lawrence Hall, 
Pitt.
Irish Entertainment: Song, music and
dance by 18 Irish artists. 8:00 pm., Sol­
diers and Sailors Hall, 5th Ave. Tickets at 
Pitt Student Union.
Science For People is a new organization in
Pittsburgh of individuals working on 
various projects, in the sciences, to help 
make science something that helps people 
liberate themselves rather than something 
used to control and manipulate people. 
Meeting, Monday October 16th, 8:00 p.m. 
University and City Ministries (UACM) 
-corner of Fifth and Bellefield.
Friday, 10th Hour Productions. Good
Music at TGIF, 4:30 Skibo Ballroom.
Classified Ads=
NEEDED-A place (apt., house, room) to
subsist, exist (sleep, eat, bathe). Call Sean 
521-4984.
Lost Gold locket with chain. October 4.
Sentimental value. Reward. Call Swati, 
621-3500 x7127, 361-4153 eves.
Needed: Someone who speaks both
Japanese and English to help teach English 
to a Japanese boy. Any small amount of 
your spare time that you could offer to 
him would be greatly appreciated. If you 
are interested, or know of anyone who 
might be, please contact Debbie Mall at 
apartment 1-A-1, Morewood Gardens.
Student wanted. Beautiful room and bath,
meals, in exchange for babysitting. Walking 
distance from CMU. Friendly family.
681-1933.
Sunday
Concert: Captain Beefheart, plus Dr. John. 
8:30, Syria Mosque. Tickets at Information 
Desk.
Mack Sennett Program: Carnegie Institute 
Film Series. 7:30, Carnegie Lecture Hall. 
Free.
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs 
S15 S19 S29 $49
ah* Mi, lfel2s, 12x15% Me.
• WHOLESALE FURNITURE •
REO ROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Chain, B«iH»r#y Chain,
WkoWwU Showroom«.
CHASE’S
542« WALNUT STREET, SHA0VS1OE
OPflN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) Far Information .. . Cal *21-1025
BETO’S PIZZA
Pizza, Hot Hoagies
11 pni-1 am M.f, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 10, 1972—Page 9
Faculty To Aid United Fund
The 1972 campus United Fund Cam­
paign will begin on Wednesday, October 
11. The campus appeal this year em­
phasizes the health and community services 
provided by the more than 100 agencies 
which are part of the Community Chest, 
the American Red Cross, the Salvation 
Army, USO, and the Health Research and 
Services Foundation. 100% participation 
by faculty and staff is the goal set by this 
year’s Campus Committee. President Cyert 
says “It’s a logical goal since we are all 
members of the community and we all 
should want to maintain or improve the 
quality of life in our community.” The 
Campus Committee believes that “the 
United Fund is yours and mine because... 
each of us has, or each of us knows some­
one who has called upon one or more of 
the United Fund agencies for assistance.”
At the suggestion of President Cyert, 
this year’s Campus Committee is structured 
for broad-based participation. There are 
fourteen members representing faculty, 
staff, and service personnel.
The campaign will extend over a ten day 
period.
Leadership 
To Be Stressed 
At Program
Lead-Off, a program of activities, leader­
ship, and involvement at CMU, will be held 
October 14, 15 from 9:30 to 5:00 each 
day at Skibo.
A committee of CMU students has been 
working since April to design and plan the 
two days and have selected Art and Marie 
Kim to co-ordinate the sessions. Both are 
skilled specialists in this area.
The two day program, sponsored by the 
Camegie-Mellon Department of Student 
Activities and the YWCA is open to all 
members of the CMU community. For fur­
ther information, please see Ms. Christian 
) or Mr. McCurdy in Student Activities, Ski­
bo 103.
Lead-Off will deal with the nuts and 
bolts of communication; of goal setting; of 
keeping people involved; of developing re­
sources and opportunities; and of develop­
ing alternative organizational structures. 
Lead-Off will explore the connections a- 
mong personal, organizational, group and 
community objectives.
Trustee-Student 
Committee To Meet
The Trustee Committee on Student 
Affairs will meet on October 16. Currently 
on the agenda is an appeal to the trustees 
to reconsider a decision not to allow con­
tributions to the Western Pennsylvania 
Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) to 
be an item on student bills.
Also to be considered is the adequacy of 
student representation through Student 
Government and on Faculty Councils and 
trustee committees, the status of plans for 
Skibo improvements, and a report on Ad­
missions recruiting plans for this year.
Student members of this committee are 
Linda Arnold, Leslie Bram, Stan Edelstein, 
and Arnold Millard, Anyone who wishes to 
propose additional items for discussion or 
action should reach Dean Swank by Fri­
day, October 13.
C-MU Hosts Conference 
On Exotic Materials
The impact of advanced materials on 
engineering design and structural reliability 
will be the focus of a conference at CMU 
this week, October 9-12.
The Colloquium on Structural Reliabil­
ity will examine the impact of high 
strength metallic alloys and advanced fiber 
composites on engineering design, especial­
ly in terms of structural reliability. Areas 
covered will include introduction of the 
primary technological techniques of this 
emerging design philosophy, assessment of 
the state of the art, and identification of 
directions for new research and develop­
ment.
The format of the Colloquium is u- 
nique: the first two days will be largely 
instructional, and the second two days will 
comprise invited keynote lectures and con­
tributed technical papers. Leading authori­
ties from education, government and indus­
try will be among the speakers.
Sessions will be held from 8:30 am to 
5:00 pm daily in Mellon Institute.
Featured speaker at the dinner Tuesday 
evening, October 10, will be G. Jacoby, of 
Carl Schenck Mashinenfabrik, who will 
speak on “Development of Fatigue Analy­
sis Techniques in Aircraft.”
The Colloquium, which is expected to 
attract engineers from throughout the 
country, is being held with the cooperation 
of the Air Force Materials Laboratory 
(AFML). Co-chairmen are Drs. J. L. Swed- 
low and T. A. Cruse at CMU and Dr. J. C. 
Halpin at AFML.
Legal Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
Draft Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
Viet Experts 
To Debate Policy
Frances Fitzgerald, author of the recent 
best selling book on Vietnam, “Fire in the 
Lake”, will debate Leon Goure, noted 
political scientist, on the subject of Ameri­
can Policy in Vietnam. This will be the 
third debate in the Fall Election Issues 
Forum and will be in Skibo Ballroom on 
Wednesday, October 11, at 7:00 p.m.
Ms. Fitzgerald, a graduate of Radcliff 
College, has spent several years in Vietnam 
and her widely acclaimed book on the 
clash between the Americans and Viet­
namese represents an incredibly subtle, 
articulate and compassionate discussion of 
the war and its impact on the Vietnamese 
culture. Ms. Fitzgerald has written on the 
Vietnamese people, their culture, and the 
war for the New Yorker, The New York 
Review of Books, The New York Times 
Magazine, the Atlantic Monthly, and 
Vogue. She received the Overseas Press 
Club Award for the best magazine inter­
pretation of foreign affairs.
Professor Goure was formally head of 
the RAND Vietnam Working Group and is 
now Director of Soviet Studies at the Cen­
ter for Advanced International Studies, 
University of Miami. Professor Goure is a 
member of the Air Force Scientific Ad­
visory Board, Defense Science Board, Presi­
dential Science Advisory Board, and the 
World Affairs Council.
NOTICE
Jobs Are Available. . . ! 
For FREE information 
on student assistance and 
placement program send 
self-addressed STAMPED 
envelope to the National 
Placement Registry, 1001 
East Idaho St., Kalispell, 
MT 59901
- NO GIMMICKS -
SPAow
SPttcceM
Sandra Sowell
On Sunday, October 8, SPIRIT, a black 
student organization on campus, sponsored 
their second annual fashion show in Skibo 
Ballroom, and it was certainly, as theater­
goers might say,“A smashing success.” 
Donned in exclusively fashionable fall and 
winter attire, these talented CMU students 
performed so outstandingly that one might 
easily suspect that they were all profession­
al models in disguise. The clothes they 
fashioned were either from “The House of 
Nine” or “Our Father’s Sons Boutique,” or 
were the students’ own original designs.
The show was coordinated by Sandra 
Sowell. The commentators were D’Ambe 
Gordon and Michael Horton. The female 
models were: Linda Arnold, Marcia Cooks, 
Carylotta Harding, Fela Neely, Terry Ro­
binson, Mercedes Rodriguez, Lynne Waller 
and Miriam Whitworth. The male models 
were: Allan Champion, Melvin Flood, Reg­
gie Govan, David Penn, Ray Willis and Joe 
Williams.
Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us — we will help you.
AMERICAN 
FAMILY 
PLANNING
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
(anytime)
Know These People
Robert Drinan 
Ignatius Loyola
Teilhard de Chardin 
Daniel Berrigan 
Gerard Manley Hopkins 
Karl Rahner
They're Jesuits
Remarkable Men?
Their Brothers Think So.
The Jesuits, wernersville, pa.
19565

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 10, 1972
Cyert Raps With 
Student GovernmentStudent Representation
by Debbie Siegel
The Student Senate met with President 
Cyert on Tuesday October 3rd in the 
faculty lounge. The purpose of the meeting 
was to express view points on many issues 
of student concern with informal dialogue. 
No official business was transacted, but a 
variety of topics were covered. Cyert
Music Department
continued from page 1
concerning Mellon have guaranteed im­
provement of these conditions, if they even 
duplicate them.
A good solution must be worked out, 
says Mr. Harth, “because if we are moved 
to Mellon, which lacks the necessary facili­
ties, we will surely lose our students, and 
one can’t run a department without stu­
dents. I am not resistant to change, as long 
as the change will be advantageous to the 
Music Department.” Mr. Harth stated in a 
paper which he prepared for the adminis­
tration, “Carnegje-Mellon University’s 
Music Department prides itself on its local 
participation, and cannot prosper in a situ­
ation that could well prove to be an 
isolated wasteland.”
suggested, “Students should set their own 
activity fee to enable them to run student 
affairs independently and affectively”. He 
also announced the hope that parking 
prices will stabilize and in the long run give 
better chances to students.
Another topic discussed was the expan­
sion of library hours. In the near future the 
library should remain open until midnight 
on Sundays through Thursdays. At the end 
of the semester closing should be extended 
to 2 a.m.
The University is trying to raise appli­
cations. In November, three programs will 
be run on Saturdays to show interested 
engineering prospects the campus and 
facilities.
The question of university support for 
athletics and athletes was raised. Some 
wished to know the sense of maintaining 
teams but not at a level that promised 
victory. It was also pointed out that ath­
letics were a source of strong alumni 
support, one alumnus, Dave Schmitt, 
annually giving 50,000 dollars.
Student Government President Mike 
Garl expressed the hope, “that throughout 
the year, we will have more opportunities 
to discuss matters informally with Presi­
dent Cyert.”
The student body is represented on 
many decision making and advisory groups. 
These student representatives are all re­
ceptive to student input, and the appro­
priate committee or council members 
should be contacted whenever problems 
arise or information is needed.
TRUSTEE COMMITTEES
Buildings and Grounds 
Gordon Siebert (Grad.) 
Ted Schiffman (Jr.) 
Development and Planning 
Frank Sacco (Sr.)
Ken Sachs (Sr.) 
Educational Affairs 
John Holobinko (Sr.) 
Joe Williams (Jr.) 
Student Affairs 
Leslie Bram (Sr.)
Arny Millard (Grad.) 
Budgets
Tanya Allmond (Jr.) 
John Bell (Sr.)
Stan Edelstein (Jr.) 
Linda Arnold (Jr.)
ARE PHONEY CREDIT CARDCALLS WORTH A CRIMINALRECORD? Plus a stiff f ine...a jail sentence...
or both?
Not everyone seems to realize that charg­
ing phone calls to a fraudulent credit card 
number is against the law. And that the 
law sets heavy penalties for violators.
In this state, there’s a fine of up to $500 
—or one year in jail—or both. (In some 
states, fines range as high as $10,000, with 
jail sentences of up to 10 years.)
Modern electronic computer systems are 
making it increasingly easy to track down
offenders. And the Telephone Company 
will not tolerate fraudulent calling, no mat­
ter who the offender may be.
The penalties may seem harsh for some­
thing that may be done out of thoughtless­
ness. But the fact remains: The law does 
not look on phone fraud as a lark.
(§) Bell of Pennsylvania
COLLEGE COUNCILS
H&SS
Steve Jurman (Sr.)
Steve Hamm (Jr.)
Seth Norman (Soph.)
Kathy Corff (Fr.)
Mina Gerall (At large)
CIT
Gary Crosbie (Sr.)
Frank Sacco (Sr.)
Campus Design Committee 
Gery Gloser (Grad.)
Mark Mentzer (Sr.)
Jay Corpus (Sr.)
FACULTY SENATE COUNCILS
Student Affairs 
Gary Scott (Jr.)
Steve Rosenburg (Grad.)
Rich Heinze (Soph.)
Judy Rothstein (Sr.)
Kathy Corff (Fr.)
Educational Policy 
John Bell (Sr.)
Mike Garl (Pres. S.G.)
John Holobinko (Dir. A.A.B.)
Reggie Govan (Soph.)
Frank Sacco (Sr.)
Carol Shapiro (Fr.)
Planning
Janice Polansky (Sr.)
Bob Gursha 
Research Policy
John Holobinko (Dir. A.A.B.)
Faculty Affairs 
not yet appointed
ATHLETIC BOARD
Steve Jurman (Tartan)
Jude Heller (S.G.)
Mike Garl (Ex Officio)
Senior Athlete 
President of Intramurals
DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE
Steve Rosenburg (Grad.)
Cordell Sloan (Soph.)
Joan Kodish (Sr.)
College Council appointments are only 
until elections can be held. They are 
supposed to be elected in the spring.
Abortion Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
$10 and $20 C00P0N BOOKS
Still at a
5% DISCOUNT
COUPONS MAY BE USED AT ANY 
FOOD SERVICE FACILITY
PICK UP YOUR COUPON BOOKS
from 201 SKI BO
And Now From The Bookstore Too
Are you receiving mail from the University late because they have the wrong 
address? Have you moved recently? Did you switch rooms because you couldn't stand 
your roommate?
If you have experienced any of the above, NOW is the time to make those 
changes. The 1972-1973 Student-Activities Directory is now being compiled by Alpha 
Phi Omega, the National Service Fraternity and we need your help in making it as 
accurate as possible.
Please fill out the form below and mail it to:
C-Book
Alpha Phi Omega
Box 100
C-BOOK CORRECTION FORM
BOX 100
Name:
Dorm: Room: 
Campus Phone:
(Commuters)
Name:
Home Address: 
City: State: 
Home Phone:
Box:
Zip:

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 10, 1972-Page 11cgaygLG era.Ly.Lw nL
Gridders Crush 
Bethany, 36-0
photo by Henry Collins 
Ronnie Shinault returning his second quarter interception to set up C-MU’s 
third touchdown.
photo by Elliot Arons 
Jim Allera, who completed 14 of 19 
passes for 229 yards.
The Football Tartans, playing their first 
game as a member of the PAC, stampeded 
the Bethany Bisons on Saturday, 36-0. The 
tone of the game was set on the third play 
when Mike Stevens and Ronnie Shinault 
nailed a Bethany runner short of a first 
down, and put him out of the game.
The offense looked spectacular in gain­
ing over 400 yards through the afternoon. 
The first time the Tartans had the ball they 
marchei 75 yards for the score. Jim Allera 
hit Brian Carlock for 44 yards to spark the 
drive, and 4 plays later, Chris O’Leary ram­
bled 9 yards for the six-pointer. The con­
version was wide, so with four minutes 
gone, C-MU led, 6-0.
Late in the first quarter, the Plaid again 
took possession, this time on their own 39 
and immediately Allera hit O’Leary for a 
57 yard pass play to the Bison 4 yard line. 
Jim Allera then got the TD with a one yard 
sneak and threw to Carlock to bring the 
sctjre to 14-0.
04U had visions of a fourteen point 
halftiineriead until Ron Shinault, the de­
fensive ¿tkndout of the game, intercepted a 
Bethany pass and returned the ballto the 
Bethany 46. Three, plays later O’Leary 
scrambled 23 yards ¡¡for his second touch­
down, eluding everyone but the cheer­
leaders. At the half, we led, 20-0.
The second half followed the same pat­
terns as the spirited Tartans enjoyed their 
best outing in 2 years. In the third quarter 
‘Dandy Jim’ Allera hit O’Leary with an 11 
yard pass for our fourth touchdown, and 
soon therafter found Dan Maletic alone in 
the endzone from the eight yard line. Bob 
Curtis, CMlTs 150 lb. halfback bullied his 
way into the endzone for the two pointer. 
Curtis, who ran more like a 210 lb full­
back, gained 60 yards in 14 carries.
CMU closed the scoring when frosh Bill 
Reppa, who spent more time in the Beth­
any backfield than their running backs, 
captured Steve Sekelnick in the endzone 
for a two point safety. This brought the 
score to 36-0.
The fourth quarter saw the second 
teams continue in the happy footsteps of 
their teammates, although there was no 
scoring.
For the first time this season, the Tar-
photo by Elliot Arons 
Chris O'Leary (30) runs for one of his three touchdowns, with John 
Moore (62) and Jim Stupar (77) blocking.
photo by Greg Nickel 
A good look at C-MU's Harriers, who are now 5-0 after defeating Geneva 
1 5-46 on Saturday.
tans managed to put it all together. The 
offensive line gave Allera great pass pro­
tection as well as providing excellent down- 
field blocking. The defense totally stymied 
Bethany, with the Bisons crossing midfield 
only once.
Next week the Tartans travel to Mead- 
ville to meet Allegheny, who thusfar is 
looking like the team to beat in the PAC.
CMU is now 1-0 in the PAC and 1-2 over­
all.
Rgi
Cross-Country Team 
Still Undefeated
D.R. Sullivan
They sent us to Hiram on the 30th but 
they forgot to tell us the relays were can­
celled; well, at least we got a look at Case 
Western Reserve another strong team in the 
P.A.C. It seems their coach was also in­
terested in looking us over since news of 
strength spreads fast.
Leaving CWR to ponder, we met Thiel 
on October 4, running their scenic 
cemetary tour (appropriate maybe?) and 
hilly five-mile course. Stumbling, falling 
and getting lost provided some excitement 
to the race though CMU’s harriers still 
managed to defeat Thiel 15-46. Ken Kloes 
and Greg Dewey led the pack to tie for 
first while Tony McKay, Steve Hawkins 
and Greg Hyatt also finished simul­
taneously in third. Wayne Bingham, A1 
Vecchi and Dave Byers finished 8th, 9th, 
and 10th respectively for displacement 
which continued to run up Thiel’s score.
Saturday, we continued our winning 
ways, defeating Geneva, 15-46. This 
boosted our record to 3-0 in thePAC. and 
5-0 overall.
photo by Greg Nickel
Soccer Wins
The Soccer Tartans evened their record 
in the PAC at 1-1 Saturday by defeating 
Hiram 3-1. The soccer team is now 4-2 
overall.
Attention
The TARTAN needs sportswriters to 
cover a wide variety of varsity and IM 
events. If interested, phone 682-4557 or 
stop by Room 50 in Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 10, 1972
Law-Technology Grant Received
A pioneering study of the role of the 
technical expert in product liability cases 
will be undertaken cooperatively by the 
Duquesne University LaW School and 
CMLPs college of engineering, CIT. Funded 
by a $128,900 grant from the National 
Science Foundation (NSF), the project will 
examine the field of product liability litiga­
tion and the interaction of the law and 
technology in such litigation.
“We believe that the increasing concern 
for consumer protection vis-a-vis product 
safety, coupled with the extensive number 
of litigations, indicates that a critical analy­
sis of this area is long overdue,” the re­
searchers state. “While we are not antici­
pating what specific results may be ob­
tained, we believe that there are problems 
which must be identified and solutions 
which must be proposed.”
The unique cooperative twelve month 
effort combining engineering and legal 
specialists at the two schools will be head­
ed by Alvin S. Weinstein, professor of me­
chanical engineering, and Henry R. Peihler, 
assistant professor of metallurgy and ma­
terials science at CMU; and Aaron Twerski 
and William A. Donaher, professors of law 
at Duquesne. The study is being funded by 
NSF under the Research Applied to Na­
tional Needs (RANN) program.
Statistics show that more than 20 mil­
lion Americans are injured each year in the 
home as a result of incidents connected
Columbia University
Graduate School of Business
MR. JACK DUNLEAU will be on 
Campus November 16th to speak 
with students from all disciplines 
interested in a graduate business 
education.
FOR DETAILS: 
contact the Placement Office!
with consumer products, and that these 
personal injuries are the primary source of 
the burgeoning number of product liability 
cases entering the courts. The aspect of 
these cases to be critically examined by the 
team of researchers is the crucial role 
played by the “technical expert” or “ex­
pert witness.” His input to the decision­
making process is pivotal since he is u- 
niquely qualified to extract for the jury 
conclusions and opinions based on the 
complex facts of product performance.
“Despite the explosion of product liabil­
ity litigation which has thrust the technolo­
gist (expert witness) into a position of pre­
eminence in the judicial decision-making 
process,” the researchers say,“the role of 
the technologist and the interaction of law 
and technology in this litigation has gone 
totally unexamined.”
“Past research has not confronted the 
question of the proper role of the expert; 
to what extent his biases and predisposi­
tions affect the outcome of the lawsuit; the 
possible existence of fundamental semantic 
barriers between the technologist’s lan­
guage and that of the courts; to what ex­
tent the expert is hampered by the quality 
and quantity of technical data made avail­
able to him; and whether or not, in fact, 
the entire litigation process is designed to 
bring forth a clear and cogent technological 
view of the problem to be resolved.”
The group has set as its ultimate objec­
tive three primary goals: 1) to determine if 
significant problems do in fact exist in this 
particular area of litigation. 2) to recom­
mend modification or changes in the exis­
ting system if such problems do exist. 3) to 
examine alternative solutions to problems 
not readily corrected through modification
Birth Control Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
ABORTION
Information
PREGNANCY TEST AVAILABLE
A it Abortion can be arranged 
within 24 hours
You can return home the same day you leave.
Call Collect 
215 • 735 • 8100
Open 7 Days A Week
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing — Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND—3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE—5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
or changes in the present system.
To achieve these goals, the Duqu- 
esne/CMU team will evaluate the full trial 
and appellate records of representative de­
sign and production defect cases, as well as 
material from the investigative stage of 
these cases. The researchers expect that the 
analysis of the case records from a non­
adversary point of view by both the legal 
and engineering faculty members will per­
mit establishment of criteria aimed at
measuring the effectiveness of the litigation 
process, and will aid in the identification of 
problem areas of the process.
Duquesne University’s trial moot court 
will be used as a resource for determining 
the nature and extent of problems identi­
fied during the study, and will serve as a 
legal “testing laboratory” in which alterna­
tives and variations of the present litigation 
process may be explored under practical, 
but controlled, conditions.
C-MU Staff Council 
Tells of Progress
The Staff Council of CMU is pleased to 
announce that it has successfully represen­
ted staff employees in the matter of job 
posting and Staff representation in Person­
nel policy formation.
In a meeting with Nancy Smith, Acting 
Director of Personnel, and Mr. Robert 
Mockler, Personnel Consultant, Mr. Yalen- 
ty and the Executive Committee of the 
Staff Council were assured that both ex­
empt and non-exempt job openings would 
be posted and remain posted until the po­
sitions are filled. This will allow and en­
courage career advancement for Staff em­
ployees, particularly those who do not 
have an opportunity for advancement in 
their present departments and non-exempt 
status. Until now, exempt positions were 
advertised outside the University without 
qualified Staff employees being aware that 
the openings existed. The Council felt, fur­
thermore, that the former three-day post­
ing operated against those who, by reason 
of illness or vacation, would miss the no­
tice of job openings. To this effect also, all 
openings are to be processed through Per­
sonnel rather than the private efforts or 
department heads.
A member of the Staff Council will re­
present Staff Employees in an advisory and 
liaison capacity in the formation of policies 
affecting staff employees which are gener­
ated in the Personnel Department. This di­
rect representation and reporting has long 
been lacking and should close the commu­
nication gap that exists.
Council members who also served on 
the Commission on the Status and Needs 
of Women remember the apparently sin­
cere ignorance of most administration of­
ficers when issues were raised that were 
considered critical (and many that affect 
both men and women still are!). Adminis­
tration apparently just “didn’t know” the 
problems or the particular authority to
deal with it.
The Council looks forward to President 
Cyert’s address to Staff employees which is 
expected to take place in the near future. 
Administration’s expression of general 
guidelines and specific policies that are cur­
rently applicable (the Handbook has been 
“in revision” since July, 1969) will be help­
ful in plotting those areas where the Coun­
cil can work in an advisory capacity on 
matters of interest to the non-union, non­
exempt, non-faculty and non-executive em­
ployees who serve the campus community. 
Communications on such matters may be 
addressed to Box 20, CMU.
Columbia Artists Management Inc. presents 
National Spectacular from Africa
RushhC rilva
HEINZ HALL
One Performance Only
Wednesday, 
October 18 at 8:30
Company of 45
• musicians
• singers
• drummers
• warriors
• dancers
• acrobats
TICKETS:$5.50 • $4.50 • $3.50
20% discount on the above 
prices to students with 
ID at the 
Heinz Hall Box Office.
Philip Pi llisi Hair Design
My Hair-Cutters . . .
The Good Guys!
They'd never dream of teasing 
your hair into a big ugly balloon 
or using a horsh razor which 
contributes to Split-Ends and 
Dull Hair . . .
I call them The Cut-Ups and 
they are serious about making 
your hair look great and natural 
. . . and very, very pretty!
P.S.: Men's Hair Cutting
in private quarters!
Philip Pelusi Hair Design 
1814 Murray Avenue, 
Squirrel Hill
Phone: 421 4500, 521 1200
