** C A R N E G I ETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 62 — NUMBER 23APRIL FOOL’S DAY, 1964
St#Tuition Raised Again; Up Another $ 150
Skibo To Offer 
Smorgasbord
In an effort to promote Sunday 
evening business, the management 
of Skibo’s cafeteria and snack bar 
will be inaugurating a smorgas­
bord dinner.
Such delicacies as prime ribs 
of beef, lobster tails, roast duck, 
will be served for the price of a 
regular 99c special. There will be 
no limit as to how much a diner 
may consume.
Dinner service for the smorgas- 
bord special to be held every Sun­
day evening in the cafeteria will 
begin at 6:00 ,p.m. and conclude 
at 6:05 p.m.
When asked how he expects the 
program to be received by the stu­
dent body, the manager of food 
service answered, “We- have in­
troduced this idea to maintain our 
policy of adherence to the /‘mod­
ern pace of things. If people are eating more now, and enjoying it 
less, then we want to be first in 
there fighting-to keep it that way.’
Warner Names 
New President
Andrew Eggnoggie
Andrew Eggnoggie, noted stéel 
magnet from Birmingham, Ala­
bama, has been appointed suc­
cessor to Dr. John Warner, presi­
dent of Carnegie Tech.
Eggnoggie, who will begin act­
ing in his new post this fall, has 
been known to be radically pro­
gressive in‘industry, and expects 
to conduct himself in much the 
same manner as an educator.
Some of his plans for Carnegie 
Tech include the adoption of this 
institution as a trade school. He 
feels that _it is so bad now, that 
it must be traded to the minor 
leagues.
Eggnoggie was born in Scot­
land in 1900 and bears a strong 
resemblance to a faculty mem­
ber who served at Tech in its 
tarly years*
MSBgfliippM
New dramatic arts center completed after several revisions in design by the architect. Complete theater facilities will 
serve over 150 students in the Department of Drama at the University of Southern Rhodesia.
Recent Grad To Teach 
Techniques This Fall
Recently appointed Professor of 
Engineering Principles, Miss Bun- 
nie DeL’an will be joining the 
Carnegie Tech faculty this fall.
She will be teaching the course 
as part of the Department of Engi­
neering and Science. The Depart­
ment anticipates a widespread re­
sponse toward this subject next 
fall, and as a result is planning to 
hold the class down at the Civic 
Arena.
Miss DeL’an graduated from 
Emerson Vocational High School 
in Chicago in 1963.
Her past experience includes 
jobs (teaching) in Chicago, St. 
Louis, New York, Washington, 
and McKees Rocks. She received 
her B.A. (honorary) at the Uni­
versity of Miami in Florida, and 
her B.S. from the undergraduate 
department of the Columbia Law 
School.Her phone number is BU 8-1232, 
and her measurements are 
(continued on page 3),Professor DeL'an
Rush Schedule
8:29 Awaken. Rushin’ Washing. Rushin’ Dressing.
8:32.5 Pant Into Class. Rush To Seat. Where’s
Homework?
9:40 Tcacher Awakens You? Where Am I?
9:43 Next Class Or Not. How Many Cuts? Four
or Five?9:43.01 Heck With It. I Don’t Care If It’s Twelve Now!
9:47 Stagger Into Skibo. Stagger Through The Line.
9:50 Stagger To A Table. Scan The Tray. Probe For
Utensils. -10-17 Re-scan Tray.How Appetizing! I Paid A Buck
For This?10:20 Do I Have-Another Class This Morning?
Physics, Bah!
10:45 Rush Back To Dorm. Another Day Shot. Sleep
At Last.
Because of heavy costs incurred by recent building 
programs, the administration has voted another increase in 
undergraduate tuition cost for the coming school year.
In a meeting held during the Easter recess, eleven admin­
istrative personnel of the University of Southern Rhodesia 
?felt that an increase of $150 would 
' not greatly effect the''majority o£ 
students because about 95% are 
there on scholarship. '
With the increase of $150 pier 
year, their tuition rate' is no.w up 
to $550 per year. No student com­plaints are expected.
Asked how this would affect student applications next fall, the 
university said that it expects no 
adverse, effects concerning the 
number of applicants. “Its not like 
at Carnegie Tech, where any lit­
tle thing causes a disapproved, by 
the students,’ ^ said a university spokesman.
Free Parking 
To Be Offered 
By New Ramp
To relieve the already-confused 
parking situation hère on campus, 
the administration {.upon recom­
mendation by the Security Office 
at Carnegie Tech) has joined 
hands with the Urban Redevelop­
ment Authority of Allegheny 
County to provide tnore-than- 
ample parking facilities for Car­
negie Tech students.
In co-operation with the URA, 
Carnegie Tech will construct a 
five-tier parking ramp, which in 
its present state of design will 
accommodate some 1500 cars. 
Total cost for the project will come to about $735 million.
As yet, however, the exact lo­
cation for this ramp has not been 
decided. Although the administra­
tion wishes to have the ramp con­
structed as close to campus as 
possible, their nearest site for the 
project is a strip of land adjacent 
to thé Allegheny River Boulevard 
near Verona.The commissioner of the Urban 
Redevelopment Authority has ex­
pressed an interest in the project 
but has repeatedly denounced the 
present location for the. ramp. He 
also feels that the $735 million in 
construction costs can be slightly cut if the administration were to 
disband the notion that a bus 
shuttle or monorail service is 
needed from the parking ramp in 
Verona to the campus.
The administration is expected 
to make some changes in the 
plans.
Curfews. Lifted 
At Morewood
Elwood Griggle, Dean of More- 
wood Men’s College, Morewood, 
Idaho, has announced that cur­
fews for all students will be 
changed from 9:00 p.m. to 4:00 
a.m. on weekends.
The announcement followed 
student demonstration in Dean 
Griggle’s office, which caused 
some damage to his Persian rug and upset his goldfish.
Dean Griggle said that after 
careful consideration of the facts 
that the nearest women’s college 
is 523 miles away, and that most 
Morewood men have not had 
date in four years because of the 
curfews, the times would be ex­
tended. '
Student Congress
There will be a meeting of Stu­
dent Congress today at 4:30 p.m., 
in the Holiday. Spring Carnival 
plans will be disgust.
Dean Frown of thé University 
began quoting: figures: from' a 
book to justify the universities 
move to raise tuition. In almost 
every case, the tuition rate at the 
University of Southern Rhodesia 
was lower than the other quoted 
figures. Six other universities and colleges’ tuition fees were cited.
The second reason behind the 
tuition increase was maintenance 
costs. In Southern Rhodesia, there 
is a great number of trees which 
in the fall months shed an even 
greater number of leaves. Thé 
tuition increase will allow the 
school to hire more green-clad 
workmen to clear away the leaves 
and keep the campus spotlessly clean.
With hopes that no new build­
ings will be built, and no more 
leaves fall next autumn, tuition 
rates will hold at présent levels*
Towel To Halt 
Pilferage Of 
Model’s Linens
Frank Towel, illustrious quar­
termaster of the Carnegie Tech 
pool has been appointed assistant 
head of men’s housing. His speci­
fic duties will be the distribution 
of (yes, you guessed it) linens and 
towels, and he will be supervised 
by George Tipker, head of men's housing.
The administration pointed out that they had ~ been receiving a 
flurry of complaints from the 
Model Coat and Apron Supply 
Company with regard to a quan­
tity of misplaced linens. Further 
investigation proved that students 
were actually stealing it! (Can 
you imagine that?)
In their attempt to remedy the. 
situation, the name of Frank 
Towel was unanimously selected 
by the administration’s voting 
board of 28 members. Each of the 
28 felt confident that Towel could 
prevent any future pilferage of the 
Model’s linens. They added that if 
Towel couldn't do it, then no one could.
When asked how he felt about 
his new assistant, Tipker replied, 
“I too am confident that Towel 
will do a good job. .Every time we 
stop in the Skibo lavatory to wash 
our hands before lunch, he only 
lets me use one paper' toweL”

---------------------------------------------------

Faite 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — April 1. 1964
Editorial
“All Kidding Aside.
Perhaps this is not the time to bring up 
this topic, being that this issue of the Tartan 
is devoted to a bit. of mirth-provocation. 
Then again, it may have a greater impact for 
that reason alone.
This paiper was not scheduled to be print­
ed, today. But close to a dozen people respond­
ed enthusiastically to the realization that 
April Fools* Day, although immediately fol­
lowing an official vacation, occurred on a 
Wednesday, our day of publication.
The result of their enthusiasm is this four- 
page issue. It probably required more time, 
because it was unscheduled and did follow 
a vacation, which, as you must know, is sore­
ly needed around here every once in a while.
Congress members stagger out of Skibo after beer and pretzel meeting.
Your Man
In Contrast
The Meeting was called to order at 4:30 p.m. Those absent 
were: Warner, Brown, Porter, Pyke, a total of 354.
Blaine Cliver, Spring Carnival Committee Chairman, re­
ported that Spring Carnival will be held from April 8 to 
May 17 this year. He presented a budget for approval, which 
consisted of: $500, Security police allowance; $300, city enter­
tainment'tax; $20, rent for Civic Arena for president’s ad­
dress; and $5, birthday present for Mrs. Green. The budget 
was approved, unanimously.
Leadership Committee chairman Joe Sandulli announced 
that the speaker for the up-and-coming Leadership Confer­
ence is Richard M. Nixon. At the end of the conference 
¡each participant will be presented with a beautiful diploma, 
engraved with his name and, “I am a certified campus 
leader.”
There was a five minute recess, during which beer and 
pretzels were served.
There was no report from the Attendance Committee due 
to the fact that all the members were absent.
The Chairman, Tom Pyke, who came in late, presented 
a motion by which the chairman of Congress may succeed 
himself if he finds it necessary to remain at school an ad­
ditional year to graduate. The school will provide a grant of 
full tuition plus $300 living expenses in this event.
The meeting was adjourned, after which the members 
divided up the remaining beer and pretzels.
This Week In Pittsburgh
MUSIC
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, April 1, 8:00 p.m., The 
Encore.
“Bach, Beethoven, and the Beatles”, April 1,
3:00 p.m., Eugene Ormandy and the Ray Charles 
Singers, Volkwein’s Employees’ Lounge.
Chubby Checker, April 2, 9:00 a.m., East Liberty 
Presbyterian Church
Composers Forum, April 1, 7:00 p.m., Ringo Starr con­
ducting, Carnegie Tech gym.
LECTURES
“Perfumes of the Future”, April 1, 6:00 p.m., Terry 
Bullodor, Verner Sewage Disposal Plant Auditorium.
Engineering Design Seminar: “Products: Their Shape 
and Structure,” April 1, 8:00 p.m., Jayne Mansfield, 
guest lecturer, Fox Cafe, Shadyside.
“A Lesson in Humility,” April 5, 6:00 p.m., Cassius Clay, 
St. Paul’s Cathedral.
DRAMA
Film Arts, “Spendour in the Grass”, added short 
feature, “How to Cure Poison Ivy,” April 4, 8:00 p.m., 
Porter Hall
“The Coach with the" Six Insides,” starring Joe Gaspar- 
ella, April 3,. 7:0P p.m., Carnegie Music Hall.
. With this preface, we wish to make only 
one comment. -Although student response to this publi­
cation, in the form of written contributions' 
(news articles, letters to the editors, and the 
like) has rarely been up to par, the enthus­
iasm put forth by this staff has been con­
sistently sincere.
Putting out a college newspaper is no easy 
task. And you’d be a fool, today and any day, 
if you were to believe that this is the case.
All we suggest' is that the next time you 
pick up an issue of this paper, ask yourself 
juts how much you are contributing to make 
it one of the top college newspapers.
D. C.
Headers Write
Loose, Rice 
Express Ideas 
On Tartan
Time Comments 
On Tartan
Editor, The Tartan:
While persuing through- sev­
eral c o 11 eg e newspapers the 
Other day, I happened to come 
upon The Carnegie Tartan. I 
found it fascinating, informative, 
enlightening, and original.
I must admit, however, that 
with my limited experience in 
journalism, I have missed a few 
of the finer points of the trade. 
To clarify these, 1 would like 
to pose a few questions to you:
1—Although I am aware that 
sports are important at all col­
lege campuses, is it tan* that you 
always print sports news on the back page?
2—Mr.. Goldenrod has a dis­
tinct perception of world events. 
Can you tell me where to lo­
cate him for my publications? 
His phone number seems to be unlisted.
3—I am unfamiliar with the 
practice of printing pictures up­
side down. Does this increase reader interest?
4—Your Man in Congress is 
truly original. Do Carnegie Tech 
students always go to Washing­
ton for news? Quite complete 
coverage, I’d say!
5—What is this UMOC that 
you are all waiting for? If he 
is so imminently eminent, why such an ugly name?
I . do hope you can clarify 
these few questions for me. I 
might add that the Tartan has 
great potential as a news jour­
nal, and if it keeps improving 
it may give us some competition. 
We have a weakly news publi­
cation also, you know?
Sincerely,
Henry R. Loose 
Time-Life, Inc.
Minute Rice 
Asks For Humor
Editor, The Tartan:
Surely with the quantity of 
tfilented writers on this cam­
pus, your paper could make an 
attempt at seme kind of humor. 
The stale, dry, uninteresting 
articles which appear week af­
ter week have bored many a 
reader to tears.
I suggest that - you - try, just 
once, to supply the reader with 
something al which to laugh.
Jubilantly yours, •
Minute Rice
Dean, College of Fine Arts
IA Ramble In The Darkness
By Jeffie Goldenrod
*** Still Some Fools
It is fitting, on this daÿ, that I take the opportunity 
and space to evaluate some “basic issues” which have been 
introduced by "this reporter” through thé past seven 
months, and in turn by his “loyal readers.”
Some “persons” believe that my purpose is to “speak out 
against everything.” Let me say that they are wrong, un­
less of course this group is in the minority.
For example, minority ¦feelings are often “overlooked," 
or more emphatically, suppressed by the majority. This 
happens in many cases when a minority opinion seems 
“rather sensible to the majority,” as in the case of my 
column.
This campus has on many occasions flattered me by 
wholeheartedly accepting my proposals on such subjects as 
civil rights, government, education, smoking, child care, and 
related subjects like prostitution.
Since I had a great deal , of free time over this past 
vacation, affording me much time to think of various pro­
fundities for my informative and perceptive column, I 
also had a chance to glance over my past writings.
For those persons, who unfortunately have not as yet 
realized my sensitivity to “the greatest good for the greatest 
number,” I wish to present, for the sake of review, some 
basic thoughts which I have introduced to this campus.
“The average student is apathetic; in fact one outstand­
ing characteristic of Tech’s atmosphere is the widespread 
absence of any normal school spirit.” (September 25, 1963) 
“Fraternities offer many advantages and are not closed 
societies. The houses offer a wide variety of images, includ­
ing apathy.” (September 25, 1963)
' “Perhaps the problem is that the administration does 
not know what to do.” (October 16, 1963)
“They will serve the food, and the students will eat 
it whether they like it or not.” (October 16, 1963)
“It is my opinion that complete freedom of speech is a 
praiseworthy ideal. Freedom of speech does not mean 
freedom except to say “bad” things.” (October 23, 1963)
“It is suggested that the brothel industry should be 
allowed to stand or fall on the services it offers, not on 
moral arguments. (I should add, since my parents read this 
and may not have the same standards, that the only time 
I have been in a “whore-house” was to talk economics with, 
and get information from, the owner. I just can't see paying 
for it.)” (November 13, 1963)
“If laws are felt to be unjust, then they should be 
broken.” (November 20, 1963)
“The columns in this space have often been critical of 
(the late) President Kennedy’s views. But the president 
was still entitled to his opinions even if they often were 
not accepted. Mr. Kennedy was the man chosen to lead 
the country; his death is as tragic as any other death under 
similar circumstances. In this instance, the author agrees 
with the majoritv’s opinion of the event.” (November 27,
1963)
“The individual should assume whatever he feels neces­
sary to enable him to organize his thoughts and actions in 
whatever fashion he pleases.” (December 18, 1963)
“What better season is there to write an article chal­
lenging religious faith? Perhaps Easter!” (January 15,
1964)
And there you have it. As you can see I am quite liberal, 
yet I am perceptively aware of the needs of our culture.
Just to show you how liberal I am, I want to include 
some portions of a letter which appeared in the November 
25, 1963'issue of this paper. It is printed with hopes that it
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
NEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Head Editor........ ......................................Moron Stall
Excruciating Editor .......................Clancy Nameroon
Footpad Editor .............................................All Polluted
Understatement Editor ............................Coy McMike
Stale Editor ..........................................Chow Doddering
Nosey Editor ....................................Ohmy Rock ’n’ Roll
Featherbed Editor.........................Marlak Hodgepodge
Laying Editor ........................................Draw The Pay
Annual Subscription Rate $2,£50 Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.Offices: Skibo, Room 50, fcorbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2^9580
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9079. Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published, weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
i-isory Hoard: Old Blue, Charles Tally Ho. Annie Mosey, Martha Seeall, B« Brady ,
ivs Service: IPU (Indigent Press Unlimited)iturcs Staff: If one milliom monkeys were set in front of one million tyIwriters, and allowed lo type for n million years •rung Life Staff: Dick Older. Czluyss MakoszcklSlatti Helen of Troy, l.lnda Booth Lace. Henry R. Luce. Marga Chase^SmUh, Clnny. Suiking. Jeffrey .Axeigrcase, Dick Younger, Lorra
akly 'luring me school year except whenTheOlT WitH ;
m

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1964 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Face S
A Ramble in the Darkness
(continued from pope 2)wiU enlighten certain “persons.”
•'The first time I saw. the -column heading “Candle in the Darkness”I thought it was a little satire, and the name's pseudonym. But I checked the editorial credits and found that this is. evidently not true. It takes real conceit to put one’s name under a column with'such a presumptious heading as "Candle in the Darkness/' no less! This colu mn never fails to provide us with a chuckle and remind us that after all, children will be children. Ah, sweet mysteries ©£ life, Jeffle has found them. If Mania and Papa Axlerad ever read this. I have a, few comforting words • for them. “Don’t worry, Jeffie will grow up some day; most youngsters when backcd against the wall by reason, common sense, and fact, only fight all the harder. But as they grow older and a little more mature, this tendency disappears/' If it doesn't, they write plays in the manner of Tennessee Williams for us. uninteUeclual clods.’*
It is hoped that those who are already aware of the 
worldliness of this column, will now realize that there are 
still many “fools” left in this world, and especially right 
here on our own campus.
To them, on April Fool’s Day, I dedicate this column.
Enter Hungary
It is now. fitting that this column pay homage to one of 
the most, beautiful, elegant, and respected dining rooms in 
Pittsburgh. This restaurant is known to hundreds of dis­
criminating diners who, alone, can truly appreciate the exotic 
foods and subdued atmosphere. This restaurant has acquired, 
through the years, a reputation off- 
such high stature throughout the
I area, that the large influx of pa- 
j Irons has forced them to close 
^jtheir doors to the general public. 
They have, instead, instituted a membership plan, by which a gen­
eral fee is paid in advance. Mem­
bers are then presented with ele­
gantly engraved pink cards which 
naturally “open all doors for 
them.” Do not despair; however. 
Members are allowed, within 
limits, to bring guests to the dining 
room, who, by paying an insignifi­
cant amount of American cash, 
j^arc also entitled to enjoy the truly 
| luxurious delicacies in equally j luxurious surroundings, 
j The dinners are positively di­
vine! The recipes are drawn from 
| many nations and cooked to charm 
1 the most skeptic connoisseur. They 
1 include such diverse dishes as eggs 
jj. foo yung, veal parmesian, Swed- 
] ish meatballs, and spaghetti creole. 
1 There are several courses to each 
| dinner, and each, course is design- 
**-^ed to make you all the more im- 
| patient for the next one. Delect- 
| able soups and salads, fish, fowl, or 
j meat cooked to utter perfection 
j and topped with the most savory 
| of sauces and. gravies. Um-mnv- 
1 good!
* Dclicious, superb, unequalled 
f are al most an inadequate des- 
\ eription of the pleasures to be de- 
i rived from slowly savoring every 
i morsel of a royal feast in these 
^‘elegant surroundings. The soft 
! lights, richly decorated interior, 
and the low murmuring of voices 
and quiet clatter of dishes lull you 
into a marvelous sense of well­
being. Glance over your shoulder 
and view famous personages en­
joying their dinners on an equal 
basis.
Here, everyone is royalty. What 
other place, what other palace of 
pleasure than Morewood Gardens?
-----NOW SHOWING -------
MiïZI GAYNOR-G1G YOUNG
—THELMA RITTER COLORUSUI MIRISI! • JUUiNtWUAR \ WUUW6fNÛU«î"fllCHAMSMiÊENT \ lK7
Green Reports 
Sects Scandal
Mrs. Green, Hesideiit House 
Mother of Morewood Gardens has 
reported to the administration of 
Carnegie Tech that there, is a de­
gree of “sects" practiced in the 
women’s residence halls.
In a two-hour session with Car­
negie Tech administrators, Mrs. 
Green confidently informed the 
faculty that the problem has not 
yet reached a serious stage, al­
though the germ of “sects” has 
been planted. She added, “there 
have always been ‘sects’ in the 
Carnegie Tech fraternity houses, 
as at Harvard. That’s where it has 
to stop.”Some of the '‘sects” take the 
form of departmental clubs and 
sorority cliques, she added.
Obituaries
Dr. J. Warner. Dr. Warner died 
early today after one of Carnegie 
Tech’s green men ran over him 
with a tractor. The employee ex­
plained that it was an accident. 
He thought Dr. Warner was just 
another student.Mr. George Tipker, of a serious 
explosion in Hamerschlag hall.
Mr. Helms, Manager of Food 
Services, of food poisoning.
Mrs. Green, Head Resident of 
Morewood Gardens, of a severe 
heart attack. Mrs. Green, how­
ever, will continue her services at 
Morewood.Mrs. E. Johnson of the Hunt 
Library Staff, after being caught 
the automatic book-charging 
machine.
ÆÊaMWMË^^
SCOOP SQUARE
ANNUAL 
PUBLISERS' 
REMAINDER
SALE
Hundreds of titles.............
lowest prices .... also 
beautiful prints . . . framed 
and unframcd . ..
In addition . . . our first Classi­cal . . . Records Sale . . . ex­cellent selections . . . at worth­while réductions in price..........Monday, Tuesday and Wednes­
day • • • • April 13, 14, and 15.
CARANA EGGISNGTU
Morbid9 Tartan 
Add Candidate 
To UMOC Race
Re-reading the hne type, they 
(at 'Morbid Gardens) found a 
loophole, and that loophole led 
to the choice of another candi­
date for the most coveted posi­
tion of the year, Ugly “M” on 
Campus.
Although that “M” usually 
stands for man, the rules for the 
contest do not specify that the 
candidate be a man in the nar­
rowest sense. This may be in­
terpreted in the broader sense of 
human.
The more ambitious of the cam­
pus leaders ransacked Carnegie Tech and found a most appro­
priate candidate. Its picture, as 
it glamourizes itself here for a 
full-scale attack on the voters, 
attracted the attention of the 
Tartan staff that we choose also' 
to support this candidate. Now 
we are imploring every intelli­
gent voter to support this candi­
date and stuff the old ballot box 
for it.
How ugly'can you get?
i4® BULLETIN BORED
S'nS Auditions
Auditions for the part of the 
“stripper” in the coming pro­
duction of Scotch ’n Soda will be 
held today, tomorrow, Friday, Sat­
urday, everyday, everyplace, and 
any time.
Talent scouts will be stationed 
all over campus.
Go to it girls!
Bunnie Fan Club
Anyone wishing to form a 
Bunnie DeL’an Fan Club, is wel­
come to attend a meeting for that 
purpose. It will be held this Sat­
urday evening, April 4, at 10:00 
p.m. in the Penthouse Suite of the 
Penn-Sheratori Hotel in downtown 
Pittsburgh. Refreshments will be 
served after the meeting before 
sunrise. •
Guest speaker for the meeting 
will be Hugh Hefner, who we un­
derstand. is bringing some guests 
of his own.
Financial Report
The staff of the Hunt Library 
has announced that student fines 
for the year 1962-63 grossed 
$137,412.90. The. money will be used toward the sponsorship of 
regular staff teas.
LEWIS
Sales O Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
LIS OAKLAND AVE.
38 - 24 - 36
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTY'S™
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AYE.
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HOT BOG SHOP
JUICIEST is MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
• MUSTARD• RELISH a ONION• PICKLE
® MAYONNAISE• SAUERKRAUT• CHILE• KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER — $1.50)
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER — $1.50)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 621-7388 — 682-8466
SFTFOPSDA
With spring already here, the 
Society For the Prevention of 
People Stepping On Ants (SFTP- 
OPSOA) will hold a meeting in 
the snack bar of Skibo to discuss 
the increasing peril toward the in­
sect species.
The meeting will be held on 
Saturday, April 4, at 12:00 noon. 
Bring tweezers and a magnifying 
glass.
Publication Offer
Pie Ala Mode, the Carnegie 
Tech journalism honorary society 
has announced that Patterns, the 
campus literary magazine, and 
Thistle, the campus yearbook, have 
agreed to a plan which will bolster 
sales for both, publication«.
Anyone purchasing a copy of the 
1964 Patterns will receive a free 
copy of the 1964 Thistle!
And if you’re still not satisfied, 
you’ll receive a copy of the Tartan 
with it! How’s that?
FUSNUTH 
LHRGH 
NUYUPTrof 
CGeorHs
The Western Union 
Telegraph Company 
has several openings 
in its Field Engineer­
ing- organization for 
BS-EE graduates.
Assignments include 
testing a n d initial 
check-out of modern 
solid-state High-speed 
Data Systems, Broad- 
Band Voice Switch­
ing Networks, Micro- 
w a v e Transmission, 
and computer theory 
and programming, 
also field technical 
support of these sys­
tems oil a continuing 
basis.
A variety of challeng­
ing assignments are 
available.
Conlact:
C. H. Dalyrymplc, 
Area Plant Supt.,
230 South 11th St., 
Phila., 7, Pa.
(Phone: Walnut 3-1700)
Mr. Dalrymple will be 
interviewing on campus on April 8th.

---------------------------------------------------

"page 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — April 1, 1964
SPORTS
ND'aDn Sp.mm,'b F.n HCrr^ 
Eh'l,aa, Sa,DWb Sitp p.ai rna.;b
Five world records fell at the 
Skibo Pool last Saturday, as the 
Tartan Swimming Team edged 
out Indiana, Yale and Southern 
California in the NCAA finals.\
Carnegie Tech coach, Claude 
Sofield, had little hope of bring­
ing his team to victory, for three 
of his top stars were injured in 
the pre-meet warm-up. Before 
entering the water, Tech’s Gerald 
Weiss slipped and fell oh the 
slippery pool deck. Mr. Weiss’s 
, abdomen became firmly lodged 
between the diving board and the 
deck and could not be moved. 
He later died of gastric distress. 
Tech team captain, Len Lester, 
suffered a stroke while trying to 
dislodge. Mr. Weiss's stomach and 
could not swim. The other in­
jured Tartan was Bill Burdette, 
who . was severely beaten by a 
girl from Ohio State for rea­
sons unmentionable. These in­
juries placed the work load on 
Tech second string, who up un­
til this meet and seen little ac­
tion.
In the first event of the meet, 
the Tech, medley relay team was 
disqualified for having a girl, 
Shirley Hutter, swimming in the 
freestyle position. Yale won the 
event - and took the lead. Tech 
came back in the next event, as 
Wolff and Hartlep placed first 
and second in the 50-yard free­
style. with times of :20.2 and 
:26.3. From this point on, the 
Tartan’s ace, Frank Wyman was 
the shining star of the day. Be­
cause of injuries to Weiss, Les­
ter ,and Burdette, Frank won the 
200-yard butterfly, setting world’s 
records in, all three events. 
Frank was later seen with an 
Ohio State girl carrying a jar 
of floor wax.
Tech’s only trouble came in 
the last three events of the meet, 
as Southern California put on a 
surge, which almost overtook the 
Tartan lead. In the 200-yard 
breast stroke* USC’s Bill Craig 
touched out Tartan’s Specht and 
Easley with a time of 2:12.1 for 
a NCAA record. Southern Cal‘’s 
Roy Saari almost beat Tech’s
Classified Ads
Hall, East Ohio Street. Coir
Wanted: Sledge Hammer to smash weight scale in Skibo. Call Dean Goldman, head of the Department of Painting, Design, end Sculpture.
have been removed. Call Gus at 885-0000.
Wanted: One Bcatle Wig.
For Sale: One White Beatle Wig. Con-. R. Twiggs, Fine Arts.
Andrews in the 500-yard free­
style, as the two swimmers fin­
ished with times of 6:29.531 and 
6:29.539. A last minute decision 
by the judges permitted Tartan’s 
.Shirley Hutter to participate in 
the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
However, Shirley missed her flip 
turn on the last lap of the race 
and lost the Tech lead.
.. Final score of the meet was: 
Carnegie Tech 127, Indiana 44, 
USC 41, Yale 27. High scorers 
for Tech were Wyman with 15, 
Wolff with 13, and Burdette with 
two black eyes and a broken 
nose. After the meet Burdette 
announced his decision to retire 
from the team and join a British 
singing group.
The victory gave Tech a final
Tech Loses Two, 
One to Arrows, 
One to Pincher
Funeral services will be held 
in the gymnasium next Wednes­
day for a still unidentified drama 
student who wandered by the 
arrow, range last week on her 
way to the dorms. She was ab­
sorbed in a Shakespearean play 
and disregarded the large signs 
warning passers-by to enter at 
their own risk.
The Robin Hoods o£ the WAA 
mistook the long hair and dark 
clothes for a tree at which they were supposed to be shooting. 
They then proceeded to deplete 
the drama ranks.
Also lost la.H week was a Grad 
Eagle softball player who, at­
tempting to catch a foul ball, 
wandered into the pinchers of a 
large earth - moving machine 
which was gathering ore to be 
made into intramural trophies.
He was awarded to a foot­
ball player at intramural night, 
and subsequently, no services 
will be held.
record of 8 wins and 3 losses. 
Tech’s troubles this year came 
only from the Knoxville YMCA, 
Hempstad High School and the 
Route 8-Howard Johnson’s swim­
ming culb.
Trophy Returns 
To Tech Shelf 
After NCAA
A jubilant Tartan basketball 
team returned to thé gym last. 
Thursday night to receive a îhree 
thousand spectator welcome. The 
Tartans were still clutching their 
trophy as they accepted the 
cheers, and beers, and jeers of­
fered by. students and. adminis­
tration.
With two seconds to go in the 
finals of the NCAA champion­
ships, Jay Borniedison sunk ari 
almost impossible eighty - footer 
to take the trophy from a tall 
St. Vincent team. Tech had 
trailed the Bearcats for almost 
the entire gamé until Borniedi­
son received a pass, inbouinds, 
and proceeded to hook it over 
everyone.
St. Vincent climbed to an early 
lead on fifteen consecutive dunks 
by 7’ 3’r Ogar, but the Tartans
Ballet position No. t helped to make long shots against a tall St. Vincent team.
were determined not to fall af- 
ter overcoming such impossible 
odds against them. With team" 
play and spirited leadership from 
the bench, the Tech Five fought 
back to a 69-67 half time score.
Tech returned from the break 
to fall behind about 40 points. 
The Bearcats again used their 
superior height to good advan­
tage as they forced the Tartans 
to take bad shots and weak pass­
es which never reached their 
mark.
With only two seconds to go 
Coach Cratslinr broke his own- 
high-bounce record and so fired 
his team up that they tied the 
score with twenty quick baskets 
setting the stage for a game- 
winning hook.
.Tech again has national prom­
inence! A
TYPING
FAST s EFFICIENT 
e REASONABLE •
Term Papers — Theses — Dis­sertations — Punctuations — Spelling — Grammar Correct-
d AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used Exclusively
1
DO II YOURSELF
and pick up your Volkswagen right 
at the factory gale in Wolfsburg. 
The savings are tremendous — about 
$159.00 on a sedan, — more on 
convertibles and station wagons. Go
Motors Tour, leaving by jet on Aug­
ust 4, return in time for the fall term. 
For more information call Mr, Paul 
Muxfeldt at M. W. Motors and ask 
for the March issue of Beetle Talk 
and Tourist Delivery Information.
Today'sBest Buy:
1957 Volkswagen Sedan 
Fully Equipped 
Excellent Condition
$1695
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna 
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
WALLY'SuQ$69Campus-Favored
MENWOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIESHUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSLOAFERSWELLINGTON BOOTSFLATSFLORSHEIM' DRESS SHOESu. s.KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
1964
ENGINEERING GRAUATES
Thelnland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana, invites you 
to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific 
job descriptions in pocket brochure. Our representatives will be 
on your campus on Wednesday, April 8th. For ah appointment, 
contact Mr. Charles E. Wangeman.
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Withy«*
Wene 
Hehe
All Tickets $2.00 
THEATER UPSTAIRS
d»*_______ THEDBÜHI AND I'M '
ylll
by ARTHUR WIT
Seats $L5t Sat $2.00 Tues.-Sat. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30 
Tickets on Sale at Pitt Book Center 
Reservations 621-4145
