VOL. XXI NO. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,.PITTSBURGH- PA:TUESDAY, JANUARY 11. 1927
PLAID CAGERS SPEAK AT CHAPEL' JAN- 13
LOSE TO WEST 
VIRGINIA, 32-18
TanbafDe.Handscapped by 
Absence of Harpster, Con­
fined to Bed, Lynch Injured
WHITE HIGH SCORER
Gcnsva and; Pitt To Be Flayed 
This Week—Lineup 
MayBe Changed.
B.shop. Mi.Conndl. of tbe Pitta- 
burgh diocese.oi .the Methodist 
church, 'will apeak at chapel in 
the Littta Theatre’ on Thursday. 
January«, «12:50. U1b subject 
¦hiu» not yet bees announced.
; -Spwlal-.music wJU-be furnished
¦by^nmes'. Morehonse Ili.theijon 
of-Prof. Morebuuse, cf the Archi­
tectural department. He ie a boy 
Eopreuo.ln<.the -Churvh.of' the. As?
66naloa. '• ............
During . the week of examina­tions end the following week. Uie chapel services will be dlscon-
Carnegie Tech lost Its first bask- 
etball game ot Uie 1927 season Sat­
urday nlgbt in a b&rd-foagbt con* 
teet with West Virginia at Mor­
gantown. Tho Mountaineers' seemed to bare lilt tbeir stride, this game, making their second 
victory In as many starts. At the . end or the first half the Sklbos1 
were trailing by three points tbe score being 16-15. But at the be­ginning of' tlie second half the Mountaineers . seemed lo come back Inspired for they started In with the whistle to pile up a. lead tbat was too much for tiie fighting. Tartana • Swede' Hagberg,. the West Virginia center, took things', in to bis own hands at this time and crashed, through the tight Shi bo defense to loop in three field goals in quick succession.; His* briltiabt' play seemed to,in­
spire his teammaies, and Blick end (Xtptain Ashworth quickly; ;>ut the game into tho Virginian's, strong box by 'caging three/more field goals. ..With the score dou­bled at 30-15 tbe wearers ot the Plaid certainly had a dark outlook 
but they did not give up fighting until the final whistle blew.The entire contest.was marked by close, guarding •: on the pay. ot ' each toàm'UiifiT nll of the scoria? from the floor yas done from back of the, foul line. White, playing his first varsity game, played'best lor Carnegie, caging four field goals 'and two fouls. Xàllock, also 
Playing his first •• varsity ' game, ¦showed hé. Jïad -thé'goods.-' Hflg- herg,- Black; and Ashworth- were tbe main cogB in' tbe smboth oiled machine oC Coach Stadsvold’s; The . Tartans ¦• ’were handicapped very-much by the llluess of Harp- 
' ster .who wap unable totnnke the,, trip, and. t^ .’ injury received:, 'by' "Wally1''Lynch duTlng tbégâme.Thé Sktbô b8she(eers face two 
hard games this week. Tonight, Geneva College will be the opposl-, tlon and on'Friday night tbe tbree- 
: game ^ertés'starts'n'ilh' Pitt. To- night's 'game ; Will be played In, BeaTqp.- Fallèi;' thé ,"Plèbes playing their fifrst- g'auie as the Preliminary
BEGIN 2ND TICKET 
SALE FOR JR. PROM
All Arrangements Complete 
As Final Announcement 
Comes From Comm. .
AFF AI R AT SCHÈNLEY
théictiol. Thelyed <1‘anthercontest will be pla; the Stadjum court, Ithis policy be­ing 'in keeping with the Tartans’ custom of playing no games on tbe home court until the mid-term ex- arainaUone are a thing of the past. The varsity is looking forward to the - Pitt ’ game with considerable fear, hut also <Wth hopes, Las( year. the Panther quint was vic­torious .in all three of Jhc games two of these being - liard fousht and won by very close scores. The Tartans are determined that such• happen thlathing i
iod. ¦ Look iPlttl.Tho lineup:W. Virginia 32. Carnegie T. 18.Ashworth (c) ..F............. AmansOlenn ............!;F...... .. White
Hugberg .. . ..C.. ....... ICeltocfcMeleet ............G.............. Lynchlilack.........;...G.(c) HurdScore, by periods—West Virginia .......  12 20—32
Carnegie | Tech     ....... 7 11—18¦• Substitutions—Lepera' -for Glenn. Summers • for Hagberg, Ajbogast
* tor Melee), Morrison for Black, RhinehaTt for Ashworth, Crum for White, Stauffer for Lynch, Hitch­cock for Hurd. Field goals—West Virginia: -Hagberg 3. Ashworth 3, ''black. 3, Glenn 2, Lepera^ MelseT.1 
Carnegie' Teeh-^White /4,'.-Amans,' Kallock, Hurd. Fouls—West Vir­ginia.- 4 out of 12; Meisel,-- 3 out ot 6;'; Hogberg, 0 out of 5; Bfeick; 1' out of 2^ :Carnegie Tech—4 out.of 17; Amans, J out ot 7; White, 1 out of- Lynch’, 2 out oC 2;:Hitch- cock, 0 out of J. Time d halves—20. minutes. Tleferee—Brickley.
All of the major arrangements Tor the 1927' Junior Prom bave 
been completed: .The.Hotel .Schen.* ley wob selected aathe beet-suited for the function, Dave Harman’s Victory Recording Orchestra. has been signed to play, and the “zero hour’* Ib .9 o’clock on the evening ot January 28, -tlie Friday evening, or «amlnalion week, when the semi-annual contests will he‘over1 oiid out.of mind.
The Second ticket saie for the Men's Prom Is being conducted this week under tbe direction of Alvin Brown and Die crew ot tag distributers. All holders of. the original red tags should exchange them Immediately for the second Installment receipts, nnd those who have .thus far not''purchased the Prom tlckc-ts-are requested by the committee .to do eo^atonce, that the number'ofpersona plan­ning to attend may be determined and adeuate preparations made. The success ot the Prom ,1s depen­dent solely upon the ticket sates, and'the primary reason tor .'hold­ing these prellmfuai'y sales Is
social event of the third year men.As only two weeks remain be­fore the. Proro, It was found ad­
visable to enlarge'several of the more'IpiDortnntrominltteeB.-rMark Seibert and Wait Wimer have been ,added , to: the personnel of the puk lklty' committee. Seibert had 
formerly been in charge of . the ticket »ales, but his-aid was needed In tlie.adveitiolng fieldand Brown took' over th* sales position. ". Save- Harman's Orchestra, play­ing during the month ot January at the Grand Theater, has virtually, become tbe inoet popular group ol musicians .In Pittsburgh this sea-
rimittec ; been , inde«unior Pr<
(Continued on Page Three.)
TO HOLD SCHOLARSHIP 
BRIDGE AT UNION JAN. 15
The annual Ihter-Sororlty Coun­cil scholarship benefit bridge will, be held at the Carnegie Union on
Tbe bridge Ja given by tbe Inter Scrorlty. Council In. order, to ra(s< for the acliolareiiffea whlct
list' of the eligible candidai« This list is then taken to tbe of- flce where tbe ratings ,6f the vari­ous candidates'are compared. By making this comparison the com­mittee is able to- rèduce, their list ot ellgibles. The final- list Is aub- miited to the council' and they vote on the candidates who are to receive scholarships, .. The Intei-Soròrity Council Is -made up.of. reprsentatives troni the tour sororities in,the ' College of Fine Arts) Alpha Kappa Psl. Beetle. Beta, Pi: and. Gamma Gam* ma. Gamma.
.The tickets for this worthy purr Ttìse "may 'be obtained from' any sOrorlty glrl, The -, committee in charge is hoping for a large at- because the . larger ’the
“Worship of Doctor’s Degree” .
Is Criticized- by Educators
Christian Science Monltoi
Philadelphia; Jan; S.—That- the 
desire tor a doctor’s; 'degree 
amounts .almost to a fetieh, the. 
earatog of., which along prescribed 
lines eliminates initiative and In- 
' dependence ot thought, was the opinion expressed by various speatcers at the meetings of tho American Association of Univer­
sity Professors, just held at tho Untverlstty ot Pennsylvania. Criti­cism also was expressed of tbe rTecturinc" habit : of 'Americans 
who have toeen successful In t line of undertnking that may be of’but moyoent^jy interest.'-We -are:a. lecUire-Kolng people to an amailng degreC." said Dr.. Fimnk Aydelotte. president of ' Swarthmore College, rand 1(, a man 
writes a suncceastul book. or . be- comis outatandlng ln some special . endoavor. although It be of but 
. .temporary, interest or. Importance there are always thousand*, of per-
Tends to Curt» Initiative.
“The . disconcerting features of 
the situation.Is that'It-is carried intb -the. ctilleges. with. the Teaiilt that there are too many tecMire 
courses, and the student deveiopo doallty lnateèd of. Initiative and independence of tiiought. In every
U> subjects not. in the student 
ennrf“*. ityxsa that he s.Votild learo for hlmselL" - 
Speaxlng of this "wonhlp of a 
doctors ''degree Herman V. 
Ames, dqan of the graduata echoot of tbe University of Penusylvanla, said the desire for some title or "handle" to one's name has passed 
the bounds of rea*on and that the graduate, .students are more, ob­
sessed with the idea.'of acquiring a .tjtle-than they are of natural.. (Continued on Page Two) . r
UNION SCENE 
OF SCIENCE 
STAG SAT. NITÉ
Entertaining Pïpçratn' WiÚ 
Include Carnegie Publicity 
Film and Annual Suints
CROWD EXPECTED
Large Ticket Sales and 1,700 
Invitations To Alnvnni Tn. 
sure Becord Atten^Rnce.
The Science Stag, the one really exvlusive .ovent df tho College of Engineering, will be htld In tbe Union next Saturday evening, Jan­
uary IS, from 7:30 until midnight. 
The latter part of the program, howevci. will ‘take . place' in the Commons, as has been customary
Provisions have fcoen made for a larger attendance than at ani' previous Stag and Chairman'Frank SwaUp ig confident that the com­mittees espectatlons will be. ful­filled, judging from the large hum- her of tJchetâ thrvt bave been pur- chos&d since they were first placed on sale, a weelt ago. Through the co-operation of tlie Aluninl office; nearly two tho'unand personal in­vitations, have "been sent to alumni 
wiUil’j a radius, of flt.tjL'mllea of ¦Pltiaurgh,'and .fls'-' the 7nnmber^.ot grnilufitca h^6 always been largo, dun to tho. nature'ot thlf- nlngolar event 'an cron ' great number is looked Tor Saturday night Under- t;raduatiB' who have not thus tar. purchased their Stag tickets have'' been urgud not I» delay longer- as the numbtr to be placed on sale have been limited to Insure a suffi­cient nuanilty' for ' thé graduate giKsts ;.wno ; jhnst. ne'ce'esiirUy .' get thb'ni/a't the^ïlooT. ,The program tor tbe evening has been well arranged and Is now completed. The entertainment will be started with appropriate Refactions by a special*plebe. or­chestra that has fcëefe organized primarily for thé 1927 ®tag._ pirec- tor ‘Moit, heaà-of the'Eoglaeering school; will make a welcoming ad- dross, and immediately following this ' will ceme the Freshman and Sophomore class stunts,-in order; Prof. W0C. Li Trlnks, of . the Scl- 
'en^e'-fàoultyv;.,\yeH-knpwn-;forl-'hIe/ Continued on Pago Tarée)
Students. Earn $84,000 - in 1926
4,300 Part Time Jobs Filled
.Students of-the Carnegie insti­tute of Technology earned- $83^ 7?o.Q0 m tbeir ¿pare Mese Issi year and 402 graduates placed 1ik jobs •tbrcugh th»- empiòymt,nt-i>nr 
reau of'tbe IneUtudoi^ earned ¡»la- nés'amounting td J723^8<Ì4.qo;'JóhnD. Bealiy; head ot the bureau, has reported to'- President Thomns^S. Baker. :
Thè amount lor part time worV; he reports, was made*by both men; and women students . io ' lllllng .4,284 jobs ’ secured through -the burasu. Throughout tbe paot year' 850 students attendine day classes were' registered with the bùvoaa ns appllcantsi for work' in their 
spare time. These, whlch incluied a large number of co-eds. are earn- Ing their way through college either in whole or In part ' For the Christmas holiday period, Beatty shows In his report -15Ò' students .applied to. the bureau for \ròrk in thè postofflòes.. department stores and - other estàbllshniénts affected ' by the1 ChrletmaB nieh' of business. - \
• In earning -more than S80,OOQ.OO
INDUSTRIES SMOKER 
SET FOR fRIDAY FEB. 4
Stunts, Music, Speeohen, 
Smokes. Eefreslunenta. 
Featured.
Prof. Pnne Will 
Lecture on Light
1st LectureWill be Tuesday 
Evening Jan. 11 in Room 
209.:; of Science 
FREE TO STUDENTS
'Every one knows wh'al light, is 
i'iiui asked to'define it. and then 
realizes his lack ot knowledge»" 
replied Prpfesaor Prine when asked.
jurpoBo of tho first. llliitnlha; 
ting' lecture . (UQltfl and Conceptfl); 
which , will be ^glven by Professor '
l»rlne. of the Phy6icB Department 
in loom 209 Science o>n the even­ing of Tuesday, January 11. ' Tbe talk will be" based on the .funda­
mental concepts of light arid the' nomenclature »Bed In the lighting Industry. All Dtudeuta aqd faculty; members will . be udtnitled:' free; tho studcints being - required to show their regletratloh cards. Others may register at the door./ The purpose ot the . first-. lecture 
ia t^.expl^J^^^e^te^nlfiSi^tjJ’iPft, iiab'd'T^''tfie '^ngine'ors an^^the^ baiilc lawfl ot .lightlug. This talk will’ he prepaiatory to tnu coming lectures as it would .be- dlfllcult for a layman to understand the more involved details .without some previous know.ledgev pt ¦' the subject. This lecture', ju well a*- (Continued on Page Two) .
appointtakeheaded by Harry Wtl- llama, a senior In Works. Manage­ment, who is a meihber of Pbl' Sigma Kappa fraternity, and of Alpha Tau, Industries honorary. He will be assisted by a number of .seplor« and juritora, consisting of A1 Johnson, who Is to take, care of I'Cfreshments; Howdy Meredith, in 'charge of lights and orchefti.ra; Dunk Turner, decorations; E. W. Felli advertising; J. W. McNair, tickets .and Fred Woods, publicity. (Myde McKee will assist-with the lighting, and.stage'.work;.' and Bart Cafley .Will attend to printing.'The smoker is (hie most Impor­tant slsg event held -by the College 
of Industries. Started' originally an a copy of (he Science Stag; it developed rapidly until it how rivals, its prototype for the honor.
. (Continued on Page Two)
SCABBARD AND BLADE 
INITIATE,' FETE PLEDGES
The Scabbard and Blade Injtl; lion was heid. In the Macbjner Hall Tower, December 13; The following pledges were initiated:B. F. Carley, J. H.V Hotchkiss. A,C. Hough, F. H. Illig', R.W. Jeffery, E. B. Laughlln, R. B... McKee, S. A. McMJJilon, H. C. Porter, "J.-. h, P9W?«,' D. .L. Putt, G. 1* Seibert, A, W Slaudt, and W. W. Ware, Following tho initiation a banquet wka held In honor ot the Inlthat the Ruskin Apartments.
The speakers at the banquet ''were Major Taylor, Captain Sher­rill and .Lieutenant" Arrowsmlth. In addition B.*F. Carley. S. A. Mc- Mllllon, H. C.; Porter and entertained, with, talks concerning 
their. experiences at camp.\ Tije .M. O. T. C. was greatly honored in having Major St.. Gau- done give an Illustrated lecture at 11:30 drill. December 16. Hie topic was "Camouflaging as used by the American Allies during the (Continued on Page Two)
’• The Employment Office has re­quested alL students who worked dUJring.-Uie. Christmas vacation to call ana list the total amount ot their-earnings with Mias Merrill; 
A-record- of the amount of money yarned by the students. Ub kept from year to year .and It 1b for the purpose of making the office reo onls complete that these totals are
CARNEGIE PRESENT AT 
NATIONAL’ “Y" MEEÌING
Cavnejjio was well represented at the National Conference ot YMCA And YWCA organizations hHd during the holiday recena it Milwaukee, Wisconsin,-by Barbara 
Re'nwlck. Ger-rge CnfTee and ’Shel by McMilllon. There were over 3,000 student delegates present from all tbe major colleges ot the United -States.
The conference opened at 2; 30 on Tuesday, December 28, with an address by Bruo.e Curry ,an Impor­tant figure.is National Student Couieiences. Sesslone were .held dally until New - Year's, during :h the problems facing thiouth c>< discaridonsldored by some of the leading ducatore of .tbe world. ; Tbe after- oou meetings were brief and IiF
tfpe^k-Grs were-;. Krof. Mllhlien, physicist, world-famous scientist, 
and winner of last: year’s Noble Prize from California Institute ot Technology; Dr. Stoddard^enedy, 
London, England; and Kirby. Page, editor of tbe VWorld Tomorrow,” who spoke -oii Militarism; arid^Im- periallsm. Dr. Mordacf. Brown, negro educator from George Waeh- Ington Institute, who spoke on a new phase of the race prpblom; 
D'r. Eliot, from Columbia,' on the Limit« 3f ¦ fbe Hiimhii Mfnd; ind Dr. SwICt, who.held dlecuaeions on tho ilelatioii6 Between Men. -ind
of tlie conferí
and will do much.to etlmulato In­terest Iii the VMCA and . YWCA throughout the country.' ' ;
There will be no Y:. W. C. A. eeting until after- the mid-year.
will : be given at3:30 111 the.airls' Club ing exam. week. These • teae have been held before and each time have proved to be very successful They ure held on. the days . when tbe exanL schedule is the heaviest, thus providing, a: much-needed dl> version for overwrought: eUideote who study until'the 6ma11 hours of the morning;.No-definite program-, has been announced -yet., hut. discussions of some nature will-held that will interest every one.. The progrin» 
and tbe ejuut dates for the teas «ill be announced very.soon.
during the year, the roport sh9wa sthcients performed a wide Variety nt «joUe9,.;JncludJng work by the 
men as draftsmen, tutors..' eales- maiL .waiiore, • laborers; .gardeners and] chafleuTs, and by women stu- 'dents .' as' socretarles. te'aehersV T.’ru^resbea' nnd companions for children. • 'f
lij-addition to students who ne- cured.spare time work through the employment - bureau, many others' found work through' tholr own means or through (be assistance of :ip,culty, alumni and friends In- dependent'Of the services of the •bureau, Boatty points out.In; the portion of. hie' report de­
voted to the work of placing Car-»gi$ graduates in UoriJ Jiwittv Informed President Baker that “the most . lucrative posions 'secured by graduates were, .in the '. selling and technical field1, whlW-.'the demand tor metal- lurs|cal. mining ..and. mechanical engineers could not be met. Han- dreds ef positions In these fields went unfilled."
Demand - for graduates of the Collego . of • Industries, he shows, has'V been steady throughout the yearly Thé ..largo automobile con* 
cemfLlme already .expressed their wllll.ngncse .to employ ' the ' grad- untrB of the'new couTRe announced a6 Automotive Service Manage­ment in the Department of Work Management....../Of] tlie'402 graduates placed dtir 
m£ the >-ear 47 were civil en^i- ii'èëfs., anil. 46>wore--engnged ns’ me­chanical engineers. The' profes­sion'of teaching attracted a com-tumbal
were filled hy elec­trical nnglneerlns oitracted H2, 
and JpOHJ.lloaa In. commercljl «>ng'l- nceifing wero liiled by 30 graduates. 6ther occupations with cofnpam-. tlveijr .'large numbers of place-
THISTLE PHOTOGRAPHY 
FINISHED THIS WEEK
All Individual and Group Pic- 
• turen Must Be Taken 
This Week.
v TL • - —~i»'_ ''
; 'ëssùsit .«£viauar pictures - tor -this • year’s Thistio. must be taken.this, week, according to plan^ scheduled by the Btair. The photographers are on thé campus again thlB week, but 
It la their final visit of the year pnd all pictures , which are not taken at th/s time will not be-able in the annual, ipeclolly Important that all Seniors who have not as yet had., photographs taken should make tholr appointments imme­diately either- at the studio or-at tbe desk in the boll of Central Building. Photographs will »e taken all week but there-wll no cards or other notices sent
appear
nged 1tak-1 follows:- 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 11 Machinery Hall Steps. 
12:90^-Indu6tries Sophomores. 12:40—Tau Beta PI.joiners' and Metallurgists’ Club.1:00—Society Industrial Engl-
American Society of Me-- chanlcal Engineers. ' 1:10—American So«:iety. of. Civil 
Engineers.American Society of Elec­
trical Engineers.1:20— Coal' Miners’ Club.Non-Degree Association. 
WEDNESDAY' JANUARY 12 : Front Art’s School. 12:ao--^Tartfln..Thistle.12:40—Puppet.Shilling.12:60—Trl-Publlcntloris.Pi Delta Epeilon. (Continued on Page Three.)
Drama Conference Plans 
At Yale Nearly Complete
: Tlie.arrangements for tlie Drama 
Conference which will be'helà at Yule University, New Haven, Feb­ruary: 11-12^ are rapidly taking' Shape. The. committee which was appointed, jvhen' tlie conference met at- Carnegie in November, 1926. has met several Umes dur­ing (he past year and worked out the plau of'this year’s conference.The-first meeting will be held Friday., morning, February 11; and although.'the program bas cot been definitélv 'aonounced; the> aneakers 
will be Preetdeut Angel. .Dean Weeks , and Professor George P. Baker,-, of Yule, and President 
Thoma3 S. Baker, cf Carnegie.". A play will be given at the Hnrk- ness Theatre tor the entertainment of the visiting delegates. 'Round <able -discussions on a widè variety of subjects pertain­ing to the stage wilt -take up a great part-of (lie time and a' busi­ness meeting will.-.be . held. .The mon important question to be 
taken up. is' that -of organization. At . present the conference is na­tional.' /'delegates being' invited 
from all-over the country. Tfile may. be changed: sod Rational con­
ferences' held every three or tour years .vhUe local , meetings would bo held every year
PLUMBERS 3 
DAY PROGRAM 
STARTS JAN. 18
plumbing Heating and Ven- 
tilating Engineers to Hold 
Third AnnuaMnstitute
DATE IS JAN. 18, 19, 20
M. L T. Emulates Oarafigie't 
; Interest In Theso Three . 
Allied Industries.
Programs for the third amiual tlirco-Joy insUtute, January 18-20, for the Plumbing, Healing and Ventilating, industries- are now available! Several new features iure found in this year’s .program. Ttis seislohs'wlll be conducted' by chairmen who are nationally prom­inent In the Jndustrfes. lectures will' be given showing the relation­ship of Plumbing, heating and ven­tilating (o 'hunlnn comfort anti health. After oach .lecture and following & discussion from- tbe floor .an opportunity will be given 
to thòsò who are vitally interested in the subject (o continue tbe dis­
cussion with the lecturer ot no In- formal, round tabic. Eaclt evening at dinner It is planned to hove those ;l'n '. attAOdance. meet- In the Carnegie' Commons - and discuBB the program’ of tbe ddy. ' The importance ot these annual Institutes. has not been stressed unduly. Vlumblug, heating and ventilation ,hnve a definite relation topubllc health and snfety. There nru mhny ordinances ariil etate laws relating to plumbing installa­tion,'Ihore oro laws governing tho Instullntlon of healing equipment,' .and., each yonr sees new regula­tions’ concerning ventilation/ Peo pie are gradually learning. tho
effect on health ^nnd happlueas 
They aro lenrnliig, too, that thbro to lifr. that is healthful and, air that is unheallhful/. Tbo plumblug contractor has these things clearly In mind. Ho realises tho part he •¿niiBt . pl&y Jn public,, health and welfare. Honce, SPEA nnnnal Insti­tute ut Carnegie is of fundamental Interest, td' all. the' contractors nnd manufacturers In this. AahK 
The usual plan of haying menk- "bers .of tb* fSiiulty òf;. thè' Corriegi«' 
(Continued on Page Tbrao.)
0VEREND WILL VISIT 
ALUMNI CLANS IN WEST
ClaiÎCUtlV*retni-y or the Alumna Fedot-otlon and graduate manager of Athletics At.Carnegie, will.leave nhortiy to make an extended trip through the west.' Ha wilt speak at this 
limb betoro meetings of the vnr- EKTC ntumnl clann, the purpoen of ¦its (rip belng that the alumnl moj kept In clcucr touch wlUi the school and get. first hand Informa­tion on the school from someone, how acflively • engaged in school affairs. /Two reels of moving pictures 
showing our famous i92G football team In action againRl Pitt, Now York Univorslty. West : Virginia Unlvurully imd Notre Dai^, vecent Campus Week movies and many slides showing views of the differ- ont hulldingi on the Camiiue' and
made on It will be shown at these meetings.¦.Mi. Overend will visit the' clans 
In liiP. following cities in .the order named: Cleveland, Detroit, Chi­cago., Milwaukee, S'an Francisco, Los Angelos, Tulsa, SL Louis nml Cinclunatl.
TomoTTow, Wednesday, will be official Thistle day. and salesmen 
wl’l be tn the corridors of nil *he buildings between the hours of 11:30 and 1:30. i Ehirlng these tw< hours thoy will receive subscrljv tlone to the 1927 . ThlsUe. The price will be'9£50, tb? balanov'to be paid on receipt of the yonr 
book.* As sales will, bo discontinued within a fow weeks, tomorrow will of tho last opportunltle*tbls ;Thlst. The>f sulos (bl: pares very favorably, with tho&o of 
other, years, and the results of the next-few weeks ,aieex] show <i doel'ted lncrer.se.
2ND SEMESTER 
BEGINS FEB. 3RD
Registration and Payment 
of Fees in Lengley Lab 
I . Feb. 1st and 2nd
GENERAL FEE $95.00
According lo .the .olficlal an- 
uouucement of Carnegie, teglstra* 
tlon nnd payment of tees will take 
place )n l^nnglsy Laboratory on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, Febru­ary l and 2, U:00 a. m. to 11:30 a. m. and 1:00 p. m. to 4:00 p. m.
ing and Industries Freshmen to tbe 
oillce of the Dean ot Freahmon. und all upper claeemen to, tho LlUcos of , th& honds of dopnrt-
tents; • Mnr^nret ' Morrison Carnugio College '. Freshmen td. room 101 and all upper ciasaihen to the odlces of tlie heads-of d&- pm-tmtinta.' AH or the e^con'd sem- cuter schedules f have been ar­ranged and prepared In. duplicate, thoy must be taken to the olHoe of 
the director for approval.rUudontB who havo^fecon In at- teudunco during tho first semester are required' to make tho second payment of. tho lnstltullon Foe1— :f90.00, tuition and $6.00 Student AcUvities Foe. Students) expect­ing to graduate in l!i2r are rc< qulred to pay the dl'ilonin foe ot (Graduate, studenls pay. n dlploirift; fei*. of $10.00). --Jjofovo.secoudxBontobter-cluaneB begin, Inboiatory deposits muet bo made. Payments moye' bo. made to tlie coBhloi' in the reslstriitlon room during, tho 'registration. A schedule of laboratory charge» . Ip 
postod on (he; official bulletin (Continued on Page Three.)
PRINTING DEPARTMENT 
APPOINTS INSTRUCTOR
Formerly Director, of Printing 
' at-Princeton University.
VED..
The monthly meeting of the A.I. E. E. will be held In room 11, Machinery Hall, Wednesday, .tan­nery 12. at 7:30 p. m. J. B. Cole­man, a Cameglo graduate,, will he the speaker ot this meeting.
J, !l. Coleman 1 graduated from Ciariieiife Inatituto of Technology with .the clasfi of ’23 KH an electri­cal engineer. Ho Is rodlo engineer of . the Wdsllnghouec Electric and Manuifncturing Company. He Las done coneidcrahle'.work in connec­tion with Uie Westlnghouse broad­casting station. He also bas done considerable with the design of radio apparatus. . :Colei
idly ;in the. Westlnghpuae electric. He will 6poak on sumo of. his ex­periences la his work. Due to.hlu progress, an interesting talk can be cxpectod.
• This meeting will be <in opftn discussion. Any of ibe audience may be free to discuss any of.the points brought up. Visitors at this meeting . are welcome. Refresh­ments aiyl smokes will be served.
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae Association will -give a benefit bridge party : February 12. in : the ball room of-Uhe' .Hotel Schenley for the -benaflt .of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology endowment Mind. "Miss Eleanor M. RIesmey- or is chairman of the commlttee- in charge, which consists of • Miss Grace C. - Munhall, - Miss Mary E. Bechtel, Mrs: C. Oixooi Harnack,
. Waller B. Gress; formovly dlroc- tor of priutiug at Prlncton Unl< •voralty, hua hoe» appointed Jn. Btrudcr in typography. In tlio De­partment ot Printing at Carnegie institute of Technology, The cp polntmenl became • effective with tbe opening ot the new year.Mi1. Gress comes to the local atltution with a well eatnbllul reputation as one of the counti foremost typographers. He > l'ormerly connectod wllh •• 1 Murchbanka shop In New York, where he remained for- several years. Lalor ho became art dl* rector of tho Wonmn’a Home Com­panion. and after Umt became Di­rector of Printing with the Amer­ican Book Company. .Kt wus next employed by. R, It Donnelley & Sons' of Chicago, ft company employing more tban 2,0<IO men,' where-he had charge of the • pfenning of Special Edl-
Abouti a year ago ’’The Inland Primer” held a cover design toaty Tbe designers of the best twelve covers were to' receive prizes. Mr. Gress’ design won th< first prize and was published tin first month after, the closing- of (be
TAU BETA PI 
CALLS 7 MEN 
AT ASSEMBLY
Buddy Overend to Make 
Presentation of Gold.Fcqt- 
balls toMémbers of Varsity
PI 'DELTA EPSILON 
TO CALL NEW MEN
Interesting Entertainment WiU 
Also Feature Today’s 
Program.
The First' Qonorcl ' Assembly : 
since the holidays is being held , 
this morning In ' Carnegio Music Hall. The program will 'Include Bevqi^il. interesting features. - Tau Bet PI will mnke its call to" tho seven men chosen to join its men* bets. . Pi. Delta, Epsilon, the na­tional journalistic .'hohbrftry,‘.'wilt •' 
also mako Ite call .Qt.thlB lJme. An- other fcntuvo wilt be the presenta- ' tlon of a tho gold footbal's tn tho lembers of the.team.
The men caliod by Tau Beta Pi re as follows: R. Hurd, J. Power,J. Chi'dester, C. Peek, R. Lslblo, L. lowers, B. Davidson.Director* Mott, head of the Col. lege ,ot Engineering^ will make the* also.'glwr.a talk.-.on Tau Betn PI, . At the-pro&ent time, th«» fruterulty Is ropresohted by only- fonr members on the Carnegie Comjins. They are: F. Kolb. J. Stocksr, T. Dmetow and F. Swulle. - Tau Beia PI chooses Its members from tho Coliege of' Eluglnsoring. holding .Its pledging and initiating In the .'BpTln'g^and -tho fall.," For eligibility 'to:.Tau Bet# Pl i
Junior class,, or in - the upper attar- > er of the Son'lor dasB. Men whoso' ictholnsllci ataxidicg -brlngB them vl^hiri this ,' requirement aro then ¡hose» for . tbeir activities sQp leadership. II Is on thene roiiuire- ments that the group of eight riien wilt bo honored with'o call to this society;-' ..Pi Delta' Bpsllon, tho naMonar JfiimallBtic' fraternity, chooaes Its man on a basis of meritorious ser1 vice oh tho staffs of ..the campus puhltQOtipnR. . Thifl'^a^the JarBeat. . '6fi:jttfi^n'HiTonnisj6u«SiiBlio,to'ierf "' nltlos. ll ih compoEted.of146 chap-..;: tera, ^'-dispersed evenly, over .'.-the' dntlro Uiifted .8iatea:and haa a largo representation on . this - cam*
LITTLE THEATRE WILL' 
PRESENT “SPIRES" SOON1
Little. Theater, will' proaent-/. '¦SplresVV Jpnuary. -ftrlB. '^;,-.‘flj>ireji,"i. < a ;nio^ni coniedy.' will be presoht- cd in the Little Theater - every . evening- of - this 'week. ¦ This- com­edy was written by Mrs.' Sara Ben-: nett Southgato, a former student ;- ot the - drama dopart^ment- In tha College of Flne Arts.r .Mrs.- South- gate, who attended Carnegio dur^ Ing the years 1918 and 10Z7, is noir milking her home In Chicago.' Tho piny, produced now for lhe iTiet time on the stage, is directed by Chester Wallace: The actiontakes 'place: In-the parnohage of Dr. Uardley, a minister' ini'a'''Mld- Weautrn city.. The cast is.as to]- : EKLA' JHobart Hardley, a clergyman... .
........................ Raymond Jonos ¦
Enid, his daughters. .Ruth- Parrott Joanna, his- daughter ......;........ .' Dorothy Cdhoi ,Constaaco, hla daughtor.................. .......i Plntard^MereAlth :.Esther Granville,^hLsrslBterV..;
K • -. • i . . . v^V'- MaJgaret - W^rta ^ Abbey.' tbe matd^ . . ¿-.'i-r.-v. . i .v. -ii- -..............i Marjorie BatholomowMrs. Shepherd.... . ... .Helen StaiitMrs. Mayliard. .fiorence Wakefield - Mrs, Fitch .. ...;............... .V. Mary'Elizabeth' McFaddon Daphne Web», ..Irene Koalmakl Gertrude Ivy. .Eleanor.Vail' Lewis Admin Pooie;'r'a-' Successful arch­
itect .'.........¦Herman Qreonborff .Douglas Locke,'a young arcbU. 
tect .. i............. Thomas Lewie-
Hailman Exhibition of Paintings 
And Water Colors Opens Jan. 18
An eNhlbiUon ot paintings .and water -colors' by Johanna' K. ,W. Hallman will be-held, at .this Car­negie Institute from' January 18th to March 1st. - Mrs. Hallman Is. 'one of- the'best known: :'woman' palntora In tlie Unlled States. She Is a reeldent of Pittsburgh, studied under her father. JoyephII. Woodwell,- who .was a gifted painter-and who was a-truslee of (he Carnegie Institute for-26 years He Is represented in the perma­nent collection at the institute'bv two paintings. Mrs. Hsilqioti-has. exhibited In pract(.«B)ly-all: tho in- .ternatlonal exhibitions, v. Her por- tralt of - tlie:>late' Judge; John'D:i Shafer will he remembered by- vis­itors to - the' twenty-fifth'- lnterna- tioral. .TU : picture-- was - painted 
for the. Allegheny County Bar As­sociation ahd Is lo hang in - the 
rooms of tli« association¦¦in. - the Clty-County - Building; .: •:. Two- .years ago..Mrs:- Hallman had :aa -exhibition- of her/ paintings
at the Corcoran Gallery, Washing- ,, too, D. C. . .'€he'.had -a group of > puintinga ln the eQaqiil-centennlali atPhlladelphla.':;At;tho^anaraa-:', Paci(lc c*hlb}tlon ‘ln lS16 jbe.whsT h'wariled' a sliver m'ediV:' Mrs. Hall­man le a member.of thevifstiosal!-•. Association . of . Woman Painters; : and-Sculptor^. • ¦• -Announcement-has- been made 
also that Mrs:--Hallman:has-been* . commlflsioned to paint a portrait of tbo late Douglas .Stewart, who’ was director- of: the. Carnegie Hutr - seum. aud who died lost year. ThEs 
portrait when flnlahed will t he hung ''in:' the - permanent: collectiM 
of the Institute.- The exhibition .-will .be mado^'np': - of: landscapes and -portraits in- on , 
snd ot water colors, largely ot Hceaes In Florida and the Bahama«, where' vMrs. Hatlman. spendi her- 
wlatei^..- It:w|ii be installed in the galleries on tbe second floor -This .YllV be thevflm ekhlbUlo^ r 
(CoallnaedonP*t«Th^**)'T

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

TVKWPnMWâHV-it-îg
... by U,e TareUy basket ball team In Its in­itial contu(;llut Saturday, at the hnndaof West Virginia, gave the- boya ^ ^ man; .redeeming features. The*gwL ptoyea a gotod defensive game/but was uriabloMo get '' within range of the MountalneerB’-baiiketvHowever,. their attack should Improve as. the; fellows get accustomed (o each otben White r^ii<ick’ Paying their flret varsity'game" performed1 very credit­ably, YThlteanneilng.loiir. field goals and Kallock one: Kallook^waa stalled,JV place of . Ha^pa ter, who Waa too lll- to.oxake that trip.- Cap: tain ;Hurd, shitted last week from forward to guard, played, a good game, as did Lyilch at the other guard 'untU hlslnjury in* the second bait Toots'»Aman&r floor ¦^'rb was'gooij.-btit’bft-had-ltrtublevla'locat. lag the basket- The most glaring error,. however,. waflt,he ppor show» log made In foal shooting, the total for the team bolng four points' made out-<ii.»-posaiMe:seTenteec. Here’s bopIag :t£at'a belter bor­age than that canbe-made against Pltt .v. ,-
Games, to date, losing to Ohio State, and Alleghany In the flret Iand vHnnlng from i " ¦ ¦ ' * * ~ “ ............- All-'of these ¦ garrn.hlgtl-«carar.,|ast y<
.and back,up the t
past.-seaeon, .during which vthe .Carnegie harriers won the Wesiei Permsylyanla gonfalon. Crawford served as acting.'captain-in place o{ .Leonard Himes, who was Ineligible, and was consistently the best runner;on the squad-ln addition to being a real leader. He.has two more -years of competition, and It would oot'be anygreat surprise to sea him break some records.before.be.Is through. ,,
ONCE MORE..we must record “Lloyd Yoder Honored." At on
RUMORS OF' the possible fCarnegie, PUt. Vf. & J., West Virginia,'rècome rather loudted by Carnegie. In fact,.the.;idea originated withand.lfehlgb, have bècome rather li certainly be well ~ ioddy Overend tbre<_____ __________________ago. • He had a.meetipgc ....repräsentatives of the Tri-State “Big Four,” Pitt, West Virginia, W.J. and Carnegie, attended,ULtlQ Interest shown by theothers four schools, nothing could be donai Buddy called ir loiter, with the sam
èée Buddy's Idea' bear fruit.
INTRA-MURAL BASKET­
BALL OPENS FEB. 9TH
the
ral basketball
:aitf V dorml- 
itO fouf 8BC- 
wae , <ound 
to be the best Tor a sa|tle£acl’»ry 
arrangement of the schedule. 
There will be two and Bpmetlmds 
tames played • each
and in ,a.fe\ : be re,quire di
! teai
iek. Although thci
. few' teams are practicing, already, 
uDd “by the looks of -their playing ' U is- evideut. that, -the .winner of
r, and Gift 6h6p, No. 3941 rbes Street, Schenley Apartment >ek, or the Main -Store- In-Jenk- i Arcade: - -
HAILMAN EXHIBITION OF 
PAINTINGS AND WATER 
COLQFtS OPENS JAN. 10
(Continued From Page One.) 
following the recently closed In­
ternational and wilt probably be'' 
tjiê onlyspeclal show held under 
the auspices of the Department of 
Fine ÁriV during this season.
The Museum of tbe Carnegie In- 
sUtulë, however, bas been active 
this year In engaging prominent 
men.from, all over tbe country to 
¿peak at their Tuesday, and Sunday
On Jm
,.¦ Ransc
Albrecht.
Evjthe. oil reserve n thè United States; on February :0. Chief; Buffalo Child Long Lance vili talk-aboiit.tbe Indians. In Our :ountry.. These aro Just a-.fpw .of lie interesting subjects 'which; wilt ié - trëaied upon." The talks bayé teen especially prepared to inter-t. thoiall cwith-tho natural adenies and thej- are being glven'by:.rnen who are aitthoriUns-ln thelr-line. They aie held every Tuesday evening at 8:16: o’clopjc and .every; Suuday afi- ernoon at 2.:9» In.the Lacture Hall.
TH€ C^OTHeS,. H*ATS 
H*AcBe<R2><jtSHe%Y .SHOCS
DEVELOPED BY: FINCHLEY FOR 
: COLLEGIAN USAGE FpR -FALL
’ .' - WILL BE ¿EXHIBITED BY A REP- 
1::y RESEtfTATIVE: FROM:NEIV YORK
AtWiOiamPednHotel 1 
^W^lday anftfliiutsday • 
January Xlth and Hth
’ v Bob Stolteä, fiep
PARTICULAR: INTEREST‘ISx/N- 
J " VITED TO THE EXTRAORDINARY 
FABRICS OF FOREIGN SELECTION^ 
PATTERNS CONFINED SOLELY 
TO .THIS ESTABLISHMENT.
¦ FORTY>FIVE DOLLARS : ¦
' TAILORED. TO. ifEA^URB. ..
......JOT-'
FIFTH AVENUE. NEW YORK
Free Lecture on Christian Science
t Cliurcli of Christ. ScIen\let,.Ln JJostoi),.Mas.sachu5 
SUNDAY. JANUARY 16th.3:16 P. W. .
NCTHNC -1P3PNPBN.shopH--p o M
;.r.nr-A-íCY)t.fcy.’públ^
OL.LXIN16
EVENLY MATCHED
‘,;ifcompetmoai among; ;thi5'- men* 
bers of the rifle squad has* been keener this year than at any time since this sport was Inaugurated .at‘’'Carnegie.' ' Practically any ot thevscores of thci men. that dld not place la. the lost match, would havo-placed among-the first .five In
< The:.man wo. .did' not - place ¦ in tbe match .wlth &I. L T. and Rens> selear -all had -good scores which .^are-raa'foHoya^;-.
McConaghv <.¿..-»13$6 CulhberL;.. .............. 362Shlrey y..\i ...... 360Cole....................359
Fisher, G.-W... .t. *.......3<SPorter. H...C.. i.!........ .... .... 340The - nexi; varsity matcb is with Leb|ghV.G«.ttrehuxg .fut^.Jiha: Hop- kins,.during ,the week, ending, ^an*‘ ary, 14. . ..The..Plebe team ¿red. a prone 
latch’ wltii .CettyfllJurg during, the ’«ek. ending P^ceinbor .18, but no 
ord haq.bee£‘received ft!om them,, nd it 'la probableVthat ihey 'faiiod j fire tbeir matchs . . x.
This was the;flret.pjeb« ma^ch.
jrned in which seems, promising )r a very successful, season.The scores‘‘.'for _iihe : ,Carnegie PJabes were: • .Stine. .'.v".. .100Zachriaon . i....... .... .. . 100
,.49t>Lockwood........Scott----9ÍLindsay ..... 9BKühner.H io.,. Hilier ......'e.inext'Plebe'matcb Is with Virginia,-.- ï^laivàre, , and Oentral H. S., Wasb'ingl'on. D. C.,
SwimàÙtllu^Pacjlilìlg;
S€ason?tàOpeoF?b.l?
Tb^Taniiy_hn.dJreshmaa «wjm 
ming teams have been practicing 
regularly, and an rapidly round­
ing'loto condition, for ihelr stren- 
seaaon' which''will open up 
early..in the s^xt serneéter.
Tbe aiiuad numbera ovar- 20. mea 
bo áre now eligible,'and several 
her meh will* pVobahly be added 
> the eq[úad when they jléco'me ell- 
gibloiQ Febru¿ry. i..
Last year..witnessed :-' the< ( flret 
arnegio-'. swimming : team,- .-.and showed (bat the/Plaid bad -some- ery goodmaterial oh-the eiuad. These men have been improving 
steattllyv * and- -Cainegie’ -shonlil good - well 1>alancad team 
thls'year.- Managér -Melones has scheduled wo meels tor the varsity thus far* md several Schools aie yet lo be 
heani fnjm. The Plaid-will Bwlm Btrong liotre Dame- aggrega- on the 12th of-Febhiary in pool. Tbe team feels- that it 
pull tho same aurprlse- on: a that -i. certain-other team of did not so^ long'ago.V Again Plaid will swim the Wooetér ì In their pool the lStb of- •uary. As yet Mclnnes- has not- hoard from Pitt, and it'Is hoped Hat we will be nble to get a meet rlth them.Among tbe PIebee there' are eev- ral outstondlug. swlmmors who 111 likely give anji' tenm that they un up against some very-.good op­position. The Fiebes have'no :beduléd ¦but It- -Is hopedthat-the:Of tbo-'ii -tliis vicinity.
duiflofthe.reek. Jan
r 16.
.(Continued from Poge One) ^ oourqd, ana m puousnea ,. »u use :atalog of each college.Regular. JDay / Students, register; Irig- later than- the oindal dates given above are subject to tbe late réèlatiotlon flue nf çi.00 per day :o a maximum of $10,00 (Saturday' ind,Sunday, not iDcluiledj... All' part-time students .who, or«» registered during .the first ee'mos- 1er. .1? course« In Jiormal , Art or Music. (Group A),.ahd. who wisb. to schedule work for thé second sem- 
. January January ¿1st.. Theof- the roglsir and cable nlll 4:00OSatur'iay until 1-2:00), and 3k-day evenings (except Sat- from 7:00 p. m- to 6:00 p. m. Eujh atudeuls must preseat at 'igletratlon - ft ¿cheilule - cfird' ' for ic sccond eeme^ter which. ; has sen approved by,‘ih«? depnrliflent vlug .the instruction. Ther^ .is
il Art "< liibjecte ' (Saturday '*c< High-school etudents).
"in tbe caso Ot'NIgh't
lorson. Registration by prox) permitted. ‘ ' ;Calendar: inuary- 28, Krlday—Flrét iNn- ends." —
cbruary l .and . 2, Tue^da^ ( änesday—Secoiid seméiter;
Thurcday—Classes
April 9,% Saturday, 4:3 :aater rccess begins. April 19," Tuesday. 8:3 lay. cla&ies -vesume.
(Continued From Page One) IrOlP-Teknon.l':2p—Machinery Hall steps, Sci­ence Senate.THURSDAY. JANUARY 12 12:80—Scobel.'. Welch.12;4G—Henderson.12:66—McGill.Boss..........Men’s Dormitory Coun-. . ell.. . '•FRIDAY, JANUARY 14 ' Front M. M. C. C. li:30-l-3cience Cliib.• Mortar-Board.Tbe Stringers. SATURDAY. JANUARYx 15;! ’ 10:30—Foybcs Hall, at Forbes Hall..10:50—Mellon Hall/.. Mellon Annex at NHail; • ¦•• •H:l&-^Forbc8 Street Dorn
TAU BETA'. PI. CALLS. EIGHT MENAT ASSEMBLY'
(Continued prom Pa«e on will be ’awarded; ¦¦ ¦ "Buddy" • enjlrmakes the, presentotlnns. troplilea, are given- In- recognUloii ,ot the .Splendld work Jone by. ihr men on slbe team during Lhe past season-.and ' especially Ini pom- memoralion of thev brilliant vic­tory over Note Dame. Tlie>..ftlot' 
halls arc engraved with the" nlayer's name and position' the score of the Notfe Dame game.' Placed In the center of therjfoot-
colored onanSl. . ^ i ;;In keeping with tlio usual ^lani in eotertalnmenl has beetfR'iar- -anged by Sid Forbes. Thejäfits; talent for which was secured ifrotii;
I,he Art School, consists:,numbers: The., flrst Is . “Sfcbbol
nays,” by AValt HoRers. with Harry ^ohen at the piano. The 8^?rid ict Is a novelty dance.-"Hey,;Hey,;"'- ¦'reeent-id hy Misses Margerft!dAd'.*^ertha.-u Lee/A Siaeon';^«adt-.^ti|tor -^etcCTr^äl^Po^ti-hmni^rbe
i piano., :,;vV
: With
PLUMBERS' THREE •’ DAY PROGRAM- STARTS JANUARY 18
(Continued from Page One) iDStltutè of Technology - give the es will !be obBervéd-thlfl year; lèwitimórs on the'special fac­ulty of lecturers!'sro' -Dr. Walter an. CllIIòrd G. Dunnels and Dr. R. N. Decker. Welding prob- wlll be given considerable attention at the lnstllutè. - Professor Samuel B.v Dibble: Theodoreis, professor of plumbing; and t B.. Lelghbu will covor the
lectures. Demònstrallous ‘of prac- sanitation problems, an ex­hibit of the plumbing, heating nnd i-entllatlng products manufactured ic the Plltelmrgh district, and In­spection trips to nearby Industrial Innts will feature th^ three-day istituto.It ls- IntereBtlng lò note 'that [nssacbusetts' Institute of ‘ Tech- ology' bRH niarked " thè. Intèf^t iwmu-ln our. th&e-dar- lQSli’tutoi»
husetts-school has leeued ah in- mt|on, tiirp.ugho.ut that' .state, to .11 master plurahers. plumbing In- pectors, '- inenrtwirs- of btfarde -'tif health,,superlntendanlfl of .water departments and .anyone interested io.attend, a tTyozdqy. lnstl.lute thare Febniary lS and 17.' 'This will be onducted along tlie 'skme lilies as s our annual .three-day institute.
In -,the ,January-':ieeuo. of: -the Plumbera’. ,Trade Jpurnal, a na­tional publication,! appear articles
VARSITY QUINT TO 
¡MEET PITT ON FRI.
The Carnegie ^basketball team IU moot Pitt on'•Friday , eVeDlng 
in Jthe first game -^ot tbe anh'ual- three game aariea^ This couteet-L—a good o ................leaiably I r , 
to ihdr win over the, great1 Syia- ise five last Saturday."The.Carnegie..team .had, soma, 
tough breaks In Ite gams with West Virginia. • losing Harpstér thróugh?UlnqsB¿<:whiÍ6: Lynch ^waa EerioÙBli’;lHjar^.Jò.'.thef^me:.j'It. Is ¿possible tbat' neither of these men will he able to play against Pitt, In which case Wollock will perform at center while Stauffer ' Hitchcock will substitute for Lypch.Pitt, on the other hand, will ìye the eerrices of Sykes Reed¿ .jélr biggest star last year, who- has been uoatle to play eo tar SdEA account of Injuries Buf­fered In early, season practice. Tri-State champs l*Bt yeor, P1U looks -like a £oo4 -be¿ to repeat this yèor.’•: : •The Panthers dropped their- Oral game to 'Ohio Stato 'at,'Columbus wlde margln, th'en JoBt to Al­legheny on ' the Stadium floor 26-13.If Carnegie .gets .going tonight In Its game with Geneva, ,tbnn. a romotn pos­sibility that the-dope bucket will, be spilied óá Friday. Coach Irwíá
.........particularly“ Vgloomy he*be.losslto WeBt .Virginia, .because, he. Ccole that his team lacked practical . and ‘i axperlcnae, while- the. Mpùntàlneera’ bad'both.; le .was %eble to pick out several àw0 v ini his' t^am -iìigt' .évealpg/ nd'-ls concentratlDg. thlSvweek' kt emoviog them.Conch Alllson'e ' Plèbe team will ieèt; th^ ;piu Frq^h jn the,, pro- iminary game.. This will bo the econd game 'for ; the. .Carnegie yearlings, who. open with the G¿neVa rès'tìrvètì'tonight. : •The Pitt Freshmen-have already piled. ui»¡: a- grpat ;recordv i smother- ig Shadyslde ' Ácadem^ last eek B3 -to 11." Tb^y have a no- table cbllection pf- All-Stars,- In1 eluding Charley. Hyatt, , rated the best high . BChool.', forward' in the ate last year.' - The Plebes lineups; ^blle not it ' definitely decided will., -probe, y .'oe i' >Hortman>and Brown or. Blerl.. forwards; Bond, conter; and guards are .beLween Connelly, tell, Paiinders and/Alan.:
if the four :hólarabíps in' the degree < : plumbing, heating and v<
hold
ion. nope U Bryson, E. Reich- anbqch and C. Nollaon. These ar­ticles have to do witli the course Carnegie and tbe opportunities ftiod here. Coming as'they do, near the time of the three-day lUlute. they are featured promt- ally In the periodical.
UNION SCENE OF '
SCIENCE STAGSATURDAY NITE
(Continued From Page On^) 
ltertaliilug talks, will'then speak, he Junior class stunt 1s next on the list, to. be followed Immediate­
ly by a special film release ; een. on .the Carnegie enty. minutes, of. m<The reel has -beei
andIncludes the news films; of all o Carnegie's .football garaeB. of rtbli well as familiar, campus glimpses and .scenes from recent Campus Week. After . the Stag, Graduate Manager. Overend. is: to tako the fllm on a lecture tour In the interests of .Carnegie,. The.Senlor ciaBB; stunt will fol- >w. the pictures. Bob Waddell; an­other .popular man-about-campus.: selected to mak^ a fitting the assembled ' engineers. Al MInetti,, the one-and only Al, will then-present his.efforts In,the Interest« of, the alumu] body!-.The 
Facult^ stunt, alw^ya. an object.o( -keen..; Interest and. enjoyment' at the, Stag, will follow. The-.well- advertised and., much-, discussed. Popularity ! Contest j : awardi 
then .(Oibe made.-aDd II is expected that- Mlnettl wlll again ftfflclate as aùnouncer. .A substantial lubcheon of Band- wlches, cortee -and Ice creanif. will alt the. then-carefree, Gnginei
(Continued;!i Page One).thoHotel- -Schenley. -on -Friday, night, 
January '26. -''Harman” and '-'hai^ nony- ’ seem to -have becqme prac- Ically synonymoud wlthln’the past /oek,--and the. high degree ofl pop- ilnrlly. tlint the orchestra achieved ias boeh'freQuently-manlfestod. by he- >ncreaBlDg:’ demand. for their Ti&vetty encoreE on -the stage of thp Grand-- recently!. - These, .twelve lively riiuslclansvhave. been very omlaent'for aevoral yeara. hay- ing played *for tho. largest social tlonB of many of the blg east- colleges :and .universities,<¦ and -by-virtue‘.of-tbeir reputatloQ aa .Recording artiste. . committee - on favors still k resolutely- to divulge, any Information concerning tbemf-other than to ¦ admit unhesl-
Íaüñgly that AK tMlMBUU f'oo«U b« desliad—they u« aew, aowi 
and fitting mementoua for -what will likely be as fln« a Junior Prom
The refreshment 
likewise hesitated to go Into dfe-1' tall çoecorning tbe supper menu
We HaveLe*medTln»t ïtî«
' Better to Use
Kissel Sidles Kent a Car Service’
For AH 'Occasions \
&
[IwpMlas onisdinWoB A»'n*w e*tj ¦ ¦ .
^Speaking of fine tobaccos 
—Have a Camel!”
A NICETY of blending, a friendly blended in- this iamou» agacette. r • 
cordiality of flavor, an inherent For thid reason Camels'have com >”
• goodness that thrills from the first sistent ¿goodness. For this reason 
puff to the last — that's Camels, they never tice the tastc^no (natter 
The warmth of golden sunlight on how liberally ¡you smoke them;
. : autiunnfieldsgleamsu^theirsmoke. never ifcave a agaretty aftertaste.
¦ Camels are an expression of all 
that is the fihest.
Camel quaLty end .Camel.cxcel>
Andwherevcrcxperieacedsmok* v 
ts gather» wherever the conversa-- 
ion turns to ' tobacco.—to-the -
lencc are rccogmzcd wherever world's best ~ someone: is «ure fa. 
. smokers gather. The best of Turk* say: "Speafcmg" of ',fine tobaccos 
<sh and Domestic tobaccos are . . . Have a Camel!”.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY^' WINSTON-SALBM, ^. C<
3 time the ip :for the .-best take: place,1 for- ,1927‘v Science
In.the Coi awarding ot the class stunt will mally. ending’t Stag. ¦• A: group of capable Judges! In­cluding Prof;..Worit,.-Doan- Tarbell,; Prot:'McCullough, John'. Carr‘and Clarence Udd,' has been' selected
l for/thls'.jIt ireinemborod:tbatr.tlie.8tunl:'cup lastvyefli-J was'-«awarded'-' to-.-./.lhe. :cia96\of'i'2iTr and 'this-yesKthe 
Sehlore may he'1 expected'- t'o prd- duco-y:cPi'oice'blt of- fentertqinmenti.’ •All of the'c«mmitt-ees7or lUe' four: 
clasaisi-liave1 b&en^orklifg ‘ «arn- estly oh theit- 5tuhtg.':bnd 1 some -kcen^mpctltlon-may- b6:exi&et%d;v Nothing^ has bee:u left "uiidone. The%ehWal cb'm'rriiU&Js Saileiied thal- thfe' ¿rrerigcmehtS' are- p'eYfect.; An v abubdattCe - ofJ '-amokea 'ihave bpen^iiro'vldedi'-'Ahdi'.ifiO-Bbu^plni that have been' selected - are‘det|d ¿dly a-pproprlate. for; the occasion ThbSclence.,Stagis.re^
cA tBook 
for 
cRpads Scholars
Lesson No. 1
t No vitrified brick pave- 
¦ ment ever wore out from 
the top down. „
Lesson No. 2
The ABC of Good pave-: 
ments is Asphalt for 
filler, Brick for surface, 
Concrete, Crushed Slag,; 
Crushed Rock (Sand or 
. Gravel) for base.
Lesson No. 3
Vitrified brick builds the 
only pavement with two- 
sided value. ;
To keep taxes from climbing, advoeatè 
VITRIFIED

---------------------------------------------------

• ALUMNI EDITORS Jflargaret-Rossell--—' ......—¦•••' Herbort Orau -v\ dTfPKH tiiPiptfpib e a aaaaaaaaaa
Florence McLaughlin Helen ReedJosephine Clark Charles .Hartnng ¦John Scbneldor 
REPORTERS Stewart Ralston William McNeil Eugene Jarema
Harry WIdem Henry Bunkei
AFTER 5Tb^aniy 33CHÄÜESTF9L _hn.
James Soibert : T. R. Zenk ; R. Noble
•CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS . y
JJ..Sacks G. W.'Biabmst J.R. Brown NJLKandell A. Toplitz - H. L. Marshall
SCHOOL LBOXÜBES
-The customary'lecture series condnctèd-by' 
tie school ot intervals thrôughont the year has 
,.b&en noticeably absent this term; this of course 
hoa been necessitated by.the lack of funds. The 
recent coàl conférence, .was the'..prin<apà£’sburcè 
of the exhaustion of this particular appropria- ’ 
tion, and it proved to be a most worthy cause, 
having beon successful in every detail.
• However, it would seem that this condition 
need not moke the discontinuance of the lec­
tures necessary. Why not have a series of 
addresses by the various professors and'depart- 
ment heads of .the school itself? Some of .the 
most noted men in' their' particular line are in­
cluded among the staff of Carnegie’s instruc-
We have noticed in our various exchanges 
that lectures by .professors connected with the 
school are not uncommon, many of thé -larger 
institutions,of both United States and Canada 
aeem to be doin^ this verr iJring.
\The large fiéld of science/ art ànd what not, 
included, in .Carnegie’s curriculum, offersmen 
¦within its owh staff who should be capable of 
giving interesting lectures in almost .any line 
of art, science or various phases of industry.
A lecture series of this.kind would not only 
offer a solution to the present problem of con­
tinuing the; policy of former years, but it 
would also give'students of" various.' depart­
ments an opportunity to learn about the work 
of the entire school. It would offer ,an oppor­
tunity of expression for instructors and de­
partment heads. In short, it seems a bit un­
necessary. to practically discontinue the school 
lectures with the available talent which the 
teaching staff of Carnegie includes.
CARAECA
CONCERNING SCHOLARSHIP
One of the most vital problems that the edu­
cator of today has to contend with is a lack 
of interest in scholarship. Not; only is this 
fault noticed in the elementary student, but it 
is alarmingly apparent in the college student. 
The tendency on our own campus has been to
get 8way from intensive study, but acide from 
that, .there are few who really strive to be 
scholastically eminent.. That is to. say, the; 
average student is content to go to classes, pass 
his courses if possible, and have as good a. time 
as possible.
'i .Thcrc isi nei great cause .for alarm in this 
situation, which is felt not only at Carnegie 
Tech, but throù^out thé country. The desire 
to. pass one’s courées is certainly laudable, and 
thè irudent who suodeedsl in this is entitled to 
'his sheepskin. ' But' here is another angle. Sup­
pose every' etudent had an ambition to make 
high marks in every subject. Would not both 
the student‘and the faculty profit?
It has been.suggested that a. scholastic hon­
orary be founded) to be common-to the four 
colleges, Margaret Morrison,-Arts, Engineering 
and Industries. Selections to this honorary 
would be.wholly on the basis of scholarship; a 
selection into which neither activities nor per­
sonal prejudice would enter, as they do in 
most of our honoraries here established. Only 
senior students, perhaps the highest ten of each 
school for the first three years,- would'be eligi,L 
ble to wear the-emblem of this society. Ob­
viously, such a selection could .only be made'by 
the .faculty.
The proponents of thiB plan feel that it 
would furnish a stimulus toward higher schol­
arship; that the' honor of wearing such an em­
blem would be highly coveted,, and would in­
spire the underclassman^ to stronger efforts.: 
Cèrtìhily; 'there' i3 ^¿De mérit' in thé jplan'/but' 
is the appeal strong enough to produce the de­
sired results! Wc fear that the answer is no. 
There are at present a number of honoraries, 
too many in the eyes/of some, that every year 
pledge the best men of the da5s. And yet, be- 
cause the basis of selection is not scholarship 
alone, there is a feeling that the latter is not 
quite as important as it should be.
So we have our problem.. The .solution must 
be worked out by the student himself.' Theo­
retically, there should be no incentive needed 
to make the 6tudent tetrive for ' high scholar­
ship. We come to college for development, 
cially and mentally.,-We strive earnestly for 
maximum social'recognitiOn ; why not the sài 
scholastically ?
___________________;_________ G. V.
Dinosaur, Monarch of Pristine Days, Exhibited
At Institute in Splendid Mounted Specimens
that
time back teh million years appear 
aa the most taciturn ot oUr neigh; 
bora. Few realize the Importance 
that the Dinosaur room in Carnegie 
Museum holde to the outside 
world. This room has become a 
sanctum to science and a pantheon 
to palaeontology, for here are as­
sembled the fossil remains of those 
huge monsters tbat stalked around 
on this planet during the twilight 
of the gods.
It was an age that was vastly 
different from our age; the Arctic 
- was like Africa. Icebergs have 
since supplanted the palm trees, 
and snow-drifts have taken the 
place of the hot* turning eands of 
the deserts, and it wus also an age when pineapples grew to he the size of barrels, and cherries assumed the proportions ot the present day orange. The -gods were as - yet young and their ex­periments seem to us as being grotesque: the stage was not yet set for the entrance of the* gods’
pleased with these monsters of their making, for they blew out their flame of life by obliterating them, and it was not until fifty years ago that their grave-vard was. discovered in a far western state; when scientists, prodding about Jn the hard rock, came upon . the petrified bones and carefully removed them, it seemed likely that the lost pages ot a precious 
document bad been, found, . for it told, of the time when the coda
delectably nnder their eyes. : - . .• Arthur Starry Cogg&shall. after .. working patiently for years: ¿as succeeded ' Jn ' assembling .these bones Into the shape of the frame vorlc of some of these monitors:, and fey. doing this he has given to the world a knowledge of the twi- Jitht ot the go<l* wfitch halt a- cen- tur7 ago tu unknown Thw
mounted 
the Carnegie Museum 
The dinosaur? were'someUxnes 
eighty feet long and weighed at 
¡east- thirty tons.'..It wovild prob­
ably have beon disastrous'lor one 
of these monsters to suffer with 
laryngitis as they -had about 23 
feet of throat in which this dis­
ease might be engendered. When standlug on their rear legs they would be as tall as a modern two- story house, so tbat It'was a facile feat for them' to ntblle the leaves
_ There were two types of dino­saurs—the flcsh-eater and the
-vegetarian, and it- was not unusual for the flesh-eater to satisfy hie pangs, of hunger fey consuming one of the vegetarian dinosaurs- This point -is particularly interesting because Diplodicus Camegeii-at the Museum bears on its bon&s some ot the bruises that - show where the teeth of a flesh-eater at­tacked it Probably the main season that 
the dinosaurs did not survive is due U> the fact that the gods en- 
xlowed it with, a brain no larger in size than a walnut. It could not survive—and (he gods realizing their error retracted it, and thus profited 'by their 6Ad experiment The dinosaurs now stand in a room- where -sunshine flows in through, plate glse9-windows- and where .a comfortable temperature is maintained through the medium of steam heat—a decided differ- that^oarly twilight ten
hold .thAt same sacred place which later , ages jroserved - tor. • us . Jn their , mummies of - the Pharaohs and the golden death-mask* of Mycepn. These relics are Infinitely 
precious because, they..timnpmIt to as a, supreme realization and ap­preciation for those things which 
were created in the twilight of the'
HAROLD H JACOBSON
MU6IC DEPARTMENT RECITAL
Maestose
2. Bruch..:......  Kol Nidi
Popper .......... ... ‘ Tarentelle
Stewart Blackmore.'
3. - Schumann...: Die Lotusbli 
. Schumann .....Der Nusabi
Schumann......ich grolle nicht
Schumann ............Intermezzo
Alberta Irvine.
4. Hubay  .................Hejre Kati
- . John Brletlc.
6.’ Chcpm ...............................
. .. .PJaao Ocncerto Jn i; mini -Larghetto iRomance)Vivace •- • Jul a Bramson.6. Brobms-............... .............Immer lelaer wird mein SchlummerBrahms ...........Der 'MainachtBrahms ....... Der Schmied-.Dllnore Steenson.7. .Grieg ........... ...............Sonata la c minor for violin and piano Allegro
Ida Waldron, Martha Hanlon. Accompanists—Martha Hanlon- - .Mary Long. Mildred Senuns. •
U.S. RELATIONS 
WITH MEXICO 
IN SPOTLIGHT
United States’ Connections 
in Nicaraga Under-Discus- 
si on Internationally Now
FAVOR DIAZ REGIME
Europe newspapers Criticize 
This Oótmtjy 'íbf Ueé 
of Force.*’
During the lasffew weeks tljei
— been a great dear of --------'*o the policy ot our C egaril to Nicaragua, he treason for the discussion and criticism - of the Admlnlstra- .aiises because >o£:the;lact.that 
have. ^takcn -.BUip.soto .support, the govern'mant which has been in that country under Presi­dent Diaz. On November 14 Plaz was-elected presldent-of Nicaragua and three', days Jeter,-his.govern- ifficlaUy- recognized, by .this country. The difficulty arises 
from the. fact that there.isanother party In Nicaragua which .claims 
that Dr. .Sacasa,< a liberal,: Is the true. priBBldenti. 'Dlaz has found it linpoaslble-’to -eatabllah -hls go*- ernment without strong opposition 
from the members of the other party; and. thlB hae brought the try. to the point of a revolu-. tlon.-There are arguments in favor ot both of :he Tattles which claim to have control of. the. country, and Mexico has taken the position KPu posits to. that of this, country and has both recognized and lent their support to the liberals under Dr. Sacaua'. This fact' has made the situation . between this country and Mexico more acute than was the case . formerly. It has been 
cleJmed that Mexico wishes to in­fluence Nicaragua . to. adopt her policies in regard to land laws and foreign capital, and-‘that .this, would be determined to the inter­ests of the United States in Nica-
The situation ha6 become more acutc because of, the fact that the Administration, has sent naval forces to' Nicaragua with - the avowed purpose of protecting American lives and property in tbat .country. As a result there has been much criticism in this country and.in other countries be- cause-oE the feeling' that we are supporting one faction against the other and that Nicaragua should 
be allowed to settle her own po­litical controversies without Inter, ference from any outside govern-
>m.- ,excited., a/ • prodigious 
amount , of ridicule.; when It first appeared, and. because each has counted lieavlly in the present-day- 
'estimate of Rodin as the'greatest sculptor of modern times.
' Of: these,. VThe.Broiue Age".was the.first to. attract any attention:__condemned.: by- criticB GVBruflsels and Paris as a'fmud. It 
had. been caat directly ' from' . a. figure, they'said.. T7t >as rfectly modelled to have 
produced by legitimate
and critics alike.. They pointed out that Saint John's legs were too.far apart, and that the figure looked as though it were about to Btép down from its pedestal and ¡walk out- or the room.' The third, "The Hand of God/' wee criticized because ft did not look quite finished. “Monsieur Jtodln, take your 'Hand of God' back spend a little more time on it and pass it in again!’'• And if.' our museum were for­tunate enough to possess 20 more examples of IlodUi’s work, similar tales might be; recounted about most.of them. -"The Courtesan,*’ said the people who .came to see iL-r-,'The. Courtesan" Was dread­fully ugly. And the arms were too long.' They had Been- much bet­ter statutes at the Wax Works.“Let ns hide 'The Kiss' in a pri­vate room,. for it Is indecent!” whispered .the Curators oí the 
Chicago Mueeum.. “Ah, but 4t is smooth!“ mur­mured the fortunate ones who 
.were, permitted -to see Jt. “Per­haps It is because M. Rodin, pre­fers to,spend his time upon erotic subjects—ithis., at any rate,'is fin­
ished!” ..0 look - at that poor 'Cary­atid!* Don’t you pity the poor model, to hare been twisted so out of joint?’*"O see the snowman!“ chortled the faces, wheu they were allowed in to view the .“Balzac." “Take care, it will tumble over on you— como away from th-iie!*'And the official committee which had .aaked .Rodin to make this fig- jwe^-'it- isvan.-.'^ineuU! -. To>; wait ¿even years, ond then submit UiJs rough sketch! Let us send .it hack, .and break our promise, <ui<l
oration was needed to under- id it. The. public thought It ngs «I»* a huge rough block of ¦ble. serried with chisel marks, ti only a lalut suggestion of. the tours of a head in one email 
part of it, should be called à por­trait-of-a countess.
i- an art so necessarily limited sculpture; - any < altetnpt'-to -ex- ' ss a mood'through'Intensifies*, i or suppression of detaJia was maligned; any ’ attempt to depict le very soul of movement by the listortlon“ oi lines was inis under-. :oodr any attempt to convey emo- on through the ' manipulation of lasses was ' deplored—chiefly, of iurte, by that large portion of tbe public which, does not count, and 6h'òuld not be' allowed to count, unless tbe artist is determined to ilt. suicide. The “average .mao" (poor soul, who has been ire cried down than be? It is :ky for him tbat tbe wretched low has never been fonnd;1f be sr were, he would die of shame) 
9 average- man' does oot ilke Im­pressionism, or ‘'roughness;'' he >t abide anything which ap­pears to him unfinished; be does ot understand what ie mean a abstraction, or by.the t 
ending or spatial limits;: neither oes he take account, of such mat- 
»rs as the simplification of planes, r the expression of a particular tedium, or the concentration of linear directions; hie cares little for «cult balance, or symmetrical bai- ince either; of psychic distance ind classic idealization be recks 
tot; he dosB not ponder over sym­bolism, or virtuosity, or suggestion, tmospberlc modelling; -exag­gerated muscularity disturbs him, atlon of the Gothic soars him. and the archaic makes hlm.ivajit-to >me and piit ori hfe slippers read. “The Saturday Evening Post.” ' >
Now if. wnen we contemplate i example of the extraordinary t of Auguste Rodin, Borne of ua feel e’bit uneasy over the “Balzac'* 'The Poet and tbe Muses." we may..feel regret, but we need not feel shame. The artist can-nevei ipeak directly , to us. vnor ' can wc ¡ver see 'him'' vision' qulté 'as ' he ¡as seen 1L That is our limitation, and his tragedy.
A.,P. FISHER.
ARTS PLAYS
: A REVIEW
byarticle :the iYork Times 
“A vigorous concerted attack on President. Cooildge’a course with respect to Mexico and Nicaragua was made by the Democrats la
Twe benators -charged that the protection oC the big American oil interests and the intention to get furCSer olt concessions was at the- bottom. of tbe President's policy, while in the House a resolution %aa offered by Representative | Huddleston of Alabama calling on the President to withdraw its armed forces from Nicaragua.“ Many of the European newspa­per have criticized this country for the use of fiorce in regard to. this small country, while others 
stated that It is our duty tor ínteresThe outcome ut thé present time ¡3 uncertain, hut it appears th&c the difficulties which we bad late­ly in regard to Mexico’s policy in the case of American oil Interests important bearing e; gre ! ishave a break with Mexico. It hae even. been stated that Mexico is attempting to spread Bolshevism in. Nicaragua,, and that .this will en- danger the United. States. This appears on the *ace of jt absurb and : the whole , affair oarowa down to tbe. fact that we are protecting 
pur own iQtertsts.—The main ques tlon seems to be whatr are our ln- terests and h.ow far should we go in order to protect-them. Further­
more th«re Is also the question of
BARTOW OR1PFI6S.
Perhaps you remember tha 
dramatic department presented 
.thls' play betore: the Chrlstnias hol­
idays, but doubtless you do net 
call much of.lt. However, since
meht of some kind evep at this late 
date, we take our typewriter 
hand and begin • • •
We remember, of leaving the 1 
Ua Theater with much the sa 
sort oi]feellng'we had:after seeing 
the “Inheritors''—a .creditable per­
formance.'wasted on a weak play. 
Each member of the cast carriei 
orf his individual part in a way w 
heartily approved. Irene Tedrov 
portraying .the self-willed girl, r< 
Celved adequate support from Qei 
rit' Kraber as tiie lover. In the 
minor port of a .cabaret entertain- 
’er, Thomas Lewis scored-what we 
believe is professionally called a 
personal triumph.1 And Josephine Copas. was delightful—a study' in rede—henna hair, cerise lips; scar­let beads, and a maroon drees, or something equally clashing.play! That 
Jree sentences, the plo was as follows: a group of peoph are living at points’ ends with each other in . a London boarding house. ' A stranger 
smooths out the difficulties. ' They all are still living happily. The play might well have been named (and we say. this with'
those In it) something
for • grown-ups. Whereas '.‘The In­heritors“- had:' the saving grace of worthwhile, it unconvincingly ex­pressed ideas,: “The Third Floor Bade" Itad noth/ng we could take with-us. - . As .dramatic fare, this wi 
pretty - slim meal. Most of the splendid effort of the cast- was los because of the lack- of a co-ordlna tlon to a .definite end; The em spread thrcùgh a series of anti climaxes that made up the third act—one by one'the chara« went through tbe regeneraUng In­fluence of the stranger,- and 
thé last .one passed^lpto the hall, tbe-,stranger put on. his ..hat and coat and' called it a day. i Point, in the play was- there a i 
lion' of sustained dramatic int We found :.one- fault.-witb MçEntee’s directing; the . exits were ,too stereotyped.-'In almost every case, when'à'character left the room, he turned In the doorway and . smiled at- the ' stranger, wiiç BnÙlëd back. The first .few’ tlinesi this lingering was effective; but before the play was over, it reach­ed the point .of monotony.- Per* haps, /though, , it' was -in keeping with,; the . fantastical 'spirit ; of '- the: Piece. v.- ¦
Many' 'new".candidatesturned 
it-Jor; tbe second; official tiyouts 
of the (SIM Club last -.Sunday, a 
iry healthy wndftfon actuated; by
the jmpulse tie . fraternity , always 
iupplles to the new pledgee; Nine 
if tbe applicants showed ..more' 
nm» ordinary ability and were put 
i tlie roster, Uie pa^ea of which 
•e never dosed to men ,who dem- 
istrate their ability convlnclngt?» 
Each .reheaTaal convinces the 
gteestera. jn.OTe-. and.;... more,-o% . the;
: opportunity -Uiat> fs ^theirs.-: 
The directing, of ..Harvey Qaulis 
€iT stimulating, and the classics 
if die' music library that are learn- 
sd will «e pleasant memories for.
(Continued' Rrom FagJone.) 
Printing Compan^. During the 
SpanUlvAmerlcan War he served 
¦for.three.ycah9-ln-Cuba_and Porto 
Rico, v-^hen, war was declared! 
1917 Mr, Gross enlisted and served' 
first lieutenant of Infantry ui 
til 1$19.
Mr. Gress is greatly, lnterestc 
i the' study of old books froi rhlch he- obtained much of his aEt knowledge of printing.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Sonataj’jUi.vG MUi,or...........,}.y * Fpr;yiòljii. alone.-1.-.'1Adagio. Figue: ' SlcÜlaoo. Prò Adagiò.: Figùe. SlcUano. Presto
The Art i^ociety will present.Jo- pb Szigetl, ¦ violinist. Thursday ’ening, January 13, in CarnegJe Music Hall.' Szigetl was born , in 
pest about 30 yesra ago.' He studied with Jeno Hubay, and mads his. debut . whon 13 yean of Since then he has been a hard student and a great favorite 
throughout Europe.La6t year he came to this coun- y for a Bhort season, playing with 
the Philadelphia, Philharmonic. Boston, Chicago; Cincinnati and St. Louis orchestra, and by unanl- consent his name was added to .the list of artists, who are' called “great.’*
9 program which he will play Is given below, and proves iterest In all good music, past end present:
Concoiio in D..:..:.......MozartAllegro. Adante cantablle. Rondo.'. .iCadonza.by(.Joa'chlip)^ ‘ i-Baali Shem"^^ Vtim'p.roviaaiion) ., '{¦ . .... . ..i .Ernest Bloch
Two SauOades-do Brazil-.. ; /-. -Darius- Mllhaua' CCorcovado^nd TijUfa). •' 
Uaprlcf? Viennoia »;Fritr Kreisler Sc'ens de ia Cearda.. .Jeno Hubay Hungarian Fantasy.’¦ ’¦ '¦
Kurt Ruhrseltz at the. piano.-'. .
RUSSIAN PIANIST •
• : Alexander BiaUowsky, the great 
Russ Lan . ^iani st,' wlil" piss' »ids' Tlrtt 
concert of the ; season'iii Pittshiirgh 
today. Brailoweky returnfl to this 
country ..after. a.successfuI Buro- 
pean tour'which took him through 
Switzerland;'' Sweden. Norway and 
Denmark. Incidentally . this ms 
his first 'visit to Denmark.
.The . pianist played 25 programs 
in Paris in two'seasons-and .Only repeated one, and from there his fame spread throughout Europe 
and* the new' world. BJace his American debut two years ago be has. been "a- welcome' visitor In many of the new world’s cities;His Pittsburgh1 recital will be 
presented In the Carnegie rhAEN gall, where he. will give the fol­
lowing program:Thirty-two: Variations G minor........................ ......... Beethoven
Suite—Pour le .Plano.......DebussyPrelude. Sarabande. Totatta.Nocture,. G major........ .. .ChopinBallade, G major..............ChopinWaltz, A flat major..........ChopinAndante Spianato and Polonaise'Chopin
Chorus of Splnneça from The Flying Dutchman...Wagner-Llazt 
Tannhäuser Overture. Wagner-Ltot
Semi-Annual Sale 
of Slightly Hart
BOOKS
Vi Price
Beginning Jariu&ry 13
The busy pre-Christmas season has left in its wake hundreds of books that have been 
slightly mussed and marked from .handKiig. 
'Among them are books on every’subject, their 
contieiits as readable and interesting as ever. It will be necessary to come early in order to find 
the best of the collection, but the sale will con­
tinue throughout the month, or suntil the stocks 
are thoroughly-cleared; •
Joseph Horne go
STUFHYG,1 PBO IV-:O.DJ:OJ
A Good Mountain forBones
9R2 not be a moun­
taineer? From the top of/ 
Lookout Mountain, near 
Chattanooga, you may 
gaze over one ofthe finest 
panoramas in the country, 
andatthesametimeexperi- . 
encé that peculiar thrill 
which only historic scenes 
can inspire.
The answer» you think, is 
obvious. You will leave 
mountain climbing to 
those who prefer a withered 
sprig of edelweiss to the 
most bqauüful róse from 
an old-fashioned garden; 
who would rather grasp 
an alpenstock than the 
hand of a friend.
Perhaps, tiien, you dp. not 
know that the Otis Com­
pany* which lifts men so 
easily to their offices every 
morning, is ready to lift you 
just as easily to the summit 
of Lookout Mountain, on 
the Qcfc Indmed'Bailway.
ELE VA TO R CO M P ANY
. Ofiío D7 «11 Pnnapal C|tic* of th* Wodd .
