Nominations For
CAMPUS QUEEN
In All Schools 
Today
Nominations For
CAMPUS QUEEN
In All Schools 
Today
VOL. XXVI, No. 27.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1932.
Special Programs Mark Annual Exhibition Friday
PRESIDENTS OF FOUR SENATES 
ARE ELECTED
Officers For Next Year’s 
Student Council to 
Be Elected
DRUIDS MAY GO LOCAL
Date of Class Elections to 
Be Changed From 
May 3 to 5
The results of the four school 
senate president elections, whjcli 
were made known at Student Coun­
cil meeting held last Tuesday eve­
ning, are as follows: Katherine
Wholey, Margaret Morrison; Ira 
Kuhn, College of Industries; Rob­
ert R. Smith, College of Engineer­
ing; Josef L. Lentz, College of 
Fine Arts.
Miss Wholey, a member of the 
Department of Home Economics, 
is treasurer of the Margaret Mor­
rison Senate this year; newly 
elected Literary Editor of the 
"Puppet", campus comic magazine; 
,and a former Cwen.
Mr. Kuhn is in the Department 
of Building Construction; president 
Delta Tau Delta social fratei- 
:y; and president of Delta Skull, 
junior cjass honorary.
Mr. Smith is enrolled in the De­
partment of Mechanical Engincer- 
ipg; a member of Kappa Sigma 
'VcVat '''fraternity; 'co-captain of next 
gear’s basketball team; a member 
of Delta Skull, junior class hon­
orary; Theta Tau, professional en­
gineering honorary; and a pledge 
to Tau Beta. Pi, engineering scho­
lastic honorary.
Mr. Lentz, a junior in the De­
partment of Painting and Decorat­
ing, is president of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon social fraternity, and a 
member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabipet.
The date of the class elections, 
originally scheduled for Tuesday, 
May 3, was changed by the coun­
cil to Thursday, May 5, because 
the general assembly to be held on 
May 3 would interfere with voting.
At the next council meeting on 
April 26, the oiTiccrs of Student 
Council for the year 1932-33 will 
be elected. These officers will in­
clude president, vice president, sec­
retary, and treasurer.The, contract authorizing R. V.
Davis 
act a 
Studc 
provi'
Y. M. . C. A. secretary, to 
executive secretary to the 
i it Council was changed to for a 22-month term in­
stead I of 20-month term. This new 
contract will go into effect imme­
diately, since Mr. Davis has just 
finish fed a two-year term.
Thd petition asking that the 
DruicI National Sophomore Hon­
orary) Society .for men be made a 
local ( organization -was referred to 
a special committee of which Har­
vey (lollins is chairman.
Seriously
Speaking
I • _______
A COLUMN OF CURIOUS COMMENT 
BY NATHAN MILLER
Bear-Baiting
Conii 
recently 
gat ioni 
‘‘hears ’ 
York
i iiderable hubbub has been raised 
t!y over the sensational investi- 
into the activities of the 
and the “shorts” on the New 
Stock Exchange. The national 
administration has openly accused these 
interests of unpatriotic machinations 
in forcing down stock market quota­
tions.! The “bears” now have become 
the official antagonists—the devil’s 
advocates in the grandiose gambling 
halls (of. the nations.
Even the . most inexperienced and 
¦uninitiated, upon rellection, will rea­
lize hat the “bears" arc not to be 
held 'any more accountable than the 
'‘bulls" for the frenzied bewilderment 
which has overcome supporters of 
things as they used to be. In fact, 
these two species arc wedded; the 
one is the life of the other. Future 
historians, scanning the ruins, may 
probably, lay the onus for the present 
debacle, rather, upon the “bulls" of 
the Coolidgc era who, preposterously 
enough, took off the roof to values 
altogether. These estimable gentle­
men, promoters and speculators 
(weren’t we all?) who led off the 
“bull” market, methinks, are more cul­
pable ipr the sickly caste over indi­
vidual (affairs today, than arc their 
surviving campfollowers, or "bears."
As a | matter of fact the stock ex- 
(Cbntiriued on Page Four), .
Afternoon Events Planned 
For Pittsburgh High 
School Pupils
Special programs, innovations, and additional techniques 
will help to add interest to this year’s Annual Exhibition which 
will be held next Friday.
A special afternoon program for students in the high 
schools of Pittsburgh and vicinity will be held this year as an 
innovation. Students will serve as -guides at this program, 
which will be held from 2:30 until 5 o’clock. The Institute 
invites the students of the high schools of the Pittsburgh dis­
trict to visit its campus and observe the workings of a modern 
technological institution in the hope
that they may acquire information 
which may be of assistance to 
them in formulating their plans to 
pursue a course of higher learn­
ing.
In past years Carnegie has fre­
quently been host to groups of 
high school students who wished 
to observe how college work was 
conducted. Interest in these visits 
has increased to the point where 
the administration feels justified in 
donating an afternoon entirely to 
these groups.
The four colleges will be open 
for inspection. Visitors are re­
quested to report to the gymna­
sium, from which point student 
guides will conduct them on 
tour • of the buildings. Faculty 
members in the various labora­
tories, studios and shops will make 
a short talk to groups on the 
work in their respective work.
During the evening hours all of 
the buildings will be open for in­
spection. The evening program 
will open at 7 p. m. with a dress 
parade by the entire R. 0. T. C. 
unit accompanied by the Kiltie 
Band.
President Thomas S. Baker will 
receive visitors in the Dean’s Of­
fice' in Administration Hall from 
7:30 until 9:30 p. m.
Among .exhibits of special inter­
est will be those in the mine be­
neath Engineering Hall, the “mod­
ern salon for exhibiting material” 
in the masonry shop, the Depart­
ment of Printing, where students 
in costume will show how John 
Guttcnbcrg operated his press; the 
Department of Architecture, where 
(Continued on Page Four)
Newman Club To 
Hold Dance Wed,
Tickets May Be Secured From 
Eleanor Duffy
A combined dance and swimming 
party will be held by the Newman 
Club tomorrow night, the swim­
ming party to be held at Webster 
Hall from 8 until 10 o’clock and 
the dance at 'Cathedral High from 
9:30 until 12:30. Tickets of ad­
mission to both affairs ma}r be ob­
tained from Miss Eleanor Duffy 
for 75 cents. The price of admis­
sion for one of the events is 50 
cents.
Several Carnegie students will 
have roles in the. Newman Club 
Plaj'ers presentation of the play 
“The Prince of Darkness” on May
10 and 11. The theme of the play 
is spiritism and will be 1 directed 
bjr Madeleine Skelly Foust.
The regular Communion Break­
fast of the Newman Club was held 
last Sunday in the Cathedral High 
School. Breakfast was followed by 
the annual election of members to 
the Board of Governors. The new 
Board will convene soon to nomi­
nate candidates for club offices. 
Election of officers will be held 
May 22.
Glee Club Sings 
For Unemployed
The Men’s Glee Club will present 
concert tomorrow night at the 
Helping Hand Association, located on 
Water Street, downtown Pittsburgh, 
an organization which offers aid to 
the unemployed.
A final appearance of this year’s 
Men’s Glee Club will be made on 
Saturday, April 30, when the Club 
will sing over Station KDKA.
The program for both of these 
concerts is as follows:
Dear Old Tech
Stout Hearted Men from the "NewMoon”-----------------------------------------Romberg
Song of the Volga Boatmen____________.------------------------------------Russian Folk Song
Russian Hymn—Gos Podi Pomilus (Lord
God, Have Mercy) ____:____:_____LvovskySkibo Song-----------------------------Fred LathamAlma Mater ----------------------.T. Vick O'BrienThe club will be under the direc­
tion of Ronald Teare. The accom­
panist is Fred Latham. Officers for 
next year will be elected at a ban­
quet, to be held in May,
R. O. T. C., Kiltie Band
Parade to Open Exhibition
A dress parade of the com­
bined R. O. T. C. and the 
Kiltie Band on the Cut at 7 
o’clock will be the opening 
feature of the . Annual Ex­
hibition Friday night.
¦More than 400 students will 
pass in review. The entire 
program will be under the 
direction of student leaders.
Members of the R. O. 
T. C. will assemble at the 
regular drill positions at 6:45, 
while the Kiltie Band will 
form at the . Senior Fence at 
the same time.
Roll call will be taken and 
members of the R. O. T. C. 
in attendance will be excused 
from a drill period later in 
the year.
SCABBARD-BLADE 
CALLS 12 MEN
Formal Initiation Will Be At 
Hotel Schenley, April 29
The annual spring call was made 
to twelve junior men at the Scab­
bard and Blade dinner-dance last 
Saturday nigh(, April 23 at the 
Hotel Schenley. The men called 
arc to continue tlyjir plcdgcship 
during the present week. Wearing 
their uniforms and saluting Scab­
bard and Blade members arc the 
outward signs of the pledgcship. 
Formal initiation is to take place 
on Friday evening immediately 
after the Exhibition. The mem­
bers arc to meet in front of Ad­
ministration Hall at 12:30 o’clock. 
Election of officers will be also be 
held on that night.
The twelve men pledged are: 
William H. Council, George A. 
Decmcr, Donald H. Fischer, Ivan 
M. Gazdik, Arne Hedstrom, Rob­
ert A. Hutchison, Robert C. Kelley, 
William C. Lazarus, John C. Light- 
foot, Donald M. McClean, Robert
E. Robinson, Royal R. Manzy.
Will Holloway and Harry Kolb 
(Continued on Page Two)
DORMS HOLD ANNUAL BOAT 
RIDE MAY 6
Bob McGowan’s Orchestra 
to Furnish Music 
For Dancers
STEAMER WASHINGTON
Tickets On Sale At Grill 
and “Y” Office At 
$1.50 a Couple
The dormitory men will hold 
their fourth annual boat ride on 
board the steamer “Washington”, 
Friday evening, • May 6, from 8:30 
p. m. to 1 a. m. Bob. McGowan’s 
orchestra will furnish: music for the 
dancers.
This year the dance will be open 
to the entire school because of the 
large accommodations of the Wash­
ington.
Tickets will' be priced at $1.50 
and may be secured from any/ of 
the following committee members:
O. C. Burger, chairman; L. Par- 
mele, J. D. Mackenzie, L. Segal,
B. J. Aimone, M. Erie, and S. 
ICrasik. Tickets . will also be on 
sale at the Grill and “Y” office 
next week.
Bob McGowan’s band has just 
completed a highly successful sea­
son playing for college proms. It 
was upon the recommendation jof- 
dance committees' at Penn Sût'«: 
and Washington and Jefferson that 
this orchestra was secured for the 
boat ride. The music which is fea­
tured by this orchestra is the 
smooth, rhythmic type.
The 'committee in charge feels it 
has been fortunate in securing the 
luxurious'Washington for the boat 
ride. The boat will be brought to 
Pittsburgh for this affair after 
which it will leave, for Cincinnati, 
not to return until mid-summer. 
The Washington is a four-deck 
steamer having a carrying capacity 
of 3,000 people. The, lower deck is 
fitted out as a lounge which will 
be available to dancers. The sec­
ond deck is. the beautiful Rainbow 
Ballroom extending the entire 
length and width of the boat, ac­
commodating 400 couples. This 
(Continued on Page Four)
Pi D. E. Sponsors Exhibit
The local chapter of Pi Delta 
Epsilon, national journalistic hon­
orary for men, will sponsor an 
exhibition on Friday evening in 
Room 128, Industries. The exhibi­
tion will take in the four campus 
publications: Tartan, Thistle, Tri- 
Publications, and Puppet. Work 
which has been done during the 
past year and work from the print­
ers showing the actual make-up of 
the papers will be the main feature 
of the exhibition.
THREE RETIRING PROFESSORS 
TO RECEIVE SERVICE MEDALS
DIRECTOR MOTTPROFESSOR COLETTEPROFESSOR FOLLOWS
The three Carnegie professors will be honored at a special faculty and student assembly next Tues­day when they will be presented with faculty service medals.
CAMPUS QUEEN 
ELECTION TODAY
Fifteen Nominees Eligible 
For Final Vote
The preliminary election for the 
determination of this year’s Campus 
Queen will be held in all schools 
today between 11:30 and 1:30. This 
election, in which all registered day 
students are allowed to cast votes, 
is for the purpose of securing nomi­
nations- from the present women’s 
senior class for the Queen of the 
Spring Carnival.
A list of all women eligible to be 
nominated for this position will be 
posted at the ballot boxes which will 
be at the following places: At. the
entrance hall of the Margaret Mor­
rison College, in front of the bulletin 
board in the main hall of the Cpl- 
lege of Engineering, near the center 
of the main corridor in the College 
of Industries, and in front of the 
dean’s office in the foyer of the 
College of Fine Arts. Engineering and 
Industries Freshman will be required 
to cast their votes at the polls in 
the College of Industries. The elec­
tion will be under the direction of 
the Cwens, women’s sophomore honor­
ary.
Voters will be allowed to make two 
nominations on ballots provided by 
the Student Council; nominations on- 
anj'thiiig but these ballots will not 
be accepted. The fifteen women who 
receive the highest number of votes 
will be considered candidates in the 
second and final election which will 
be held, along with the main elec­
tions, on Thursday, May 5.
Change Class Election 
Date to Thurs., May 5
All class elections will1 be 
held on Thursday, May 5, be­
tween' 11:30 and 1:30, instead 
of' on Tuesday, ~May~"3,"; as 
previously announced. Peti­
tions for these elections 'will 
be due by four o’clock Thurs­
day afternoon.
Announce Special 
Senior Examinations
A series of examinations, begin­
ning next Tuesday and continuing 
through Thursday, will be given to 
seniors in the College of Engin­
eering and College of Industries 
under the direction of the College 
Presidents Association, of which- 
Dr. Baker is president. This or­
ganization is an association of the 
presidents of the major colleges 
of the state.
The examinations, being given 
in collaboration with the Depart­
ment of Public Instruction and the 
Carnegie Foundation for Teachers, 
will be standardized and will be 
taken simultaneously, by seniors in 
all of these major colleges.
The first of the tests were given 
four j'ears ago at which time Car­
negie made art excellent showing, 
ranking exceptionally high in math­
ematics and science.
The tests will be given in periods 
(Continued on Page Four)
Scooter and Roller Skates to be ‘‘The Thing” in 
“Heyday” Event, Laugh Creation for Spring Carnival:
Parade of Floats Also on 
Program for New Part 
of Festival
The program for this year’s Spring 
Carnival is indicative of three days 
of good, clean but foolish fun with 
everything included from Campus 
Cops to scooter races. The com­
mittee, under the chairmanship of 
Willard C. Holloway, has endeavored 
to present a festival with enough 
original features to hold the atten­
tion of the -students from the start 
to the finish.
Two features which are entirely 
original and promise to be highly 
entertaining if supported in the right 
manner arc the “Heyday” and Musical 
Revue. The first of these which has 
been proclaimed “the day in which 
the spirit of abandon prevails” will 
be held on the second day of the 
festival, Friday, May 20. Scooter 
raccs and roller skating events, the 
first of which arc for girls only, and 
the other for. the men, are billed • for 
this period which is scheduled to 
last from 1 to 5 in the afternoon. 
It is rumored that no one will- be 
allowed on the campus unless they 
have with them a scooter, a pair 
of skates, or a box-lunch. This 
rumor, however,. is as yet indefinite 
as is' the plan to place ping-pong 
tables at conspicuous positions on the
SPRING CARNIVAL PROGRAM
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 1932
9 to 1—Coronation Ball—Gym and 
Thistle Hall.
10—Coronation of Campus Queen— 
Gym.
FRIDAY, MAY 20, 1932 
Morning
11 to 12—Sweepstakes Preliminaries.
Afternoon
1 to 5—Heyday program.
a. Scooter races (girls).
b. Roller skate {-ents.
c. Parade of Floats.
Evening
9 to 1—Costume Ball—Gym and This­
tle Hall.
SATURDAY, May 21, 1932 
Morning
10 to 11—President’s Review (R.O. 
T.C.)
11 to 12—Sweepstakes Finals.
Afternoon
2 to 4—Qualifications for. Honoraric^ 
—Sjdvan Theater.
Evening
8 to 10:30—Musical Revue—Gym.
11 to 12—Closing Exercises—Sylvan 
Theater.
a. Welding of-the Link.
b. Welcoming of the Freshman 
into the Clan.
c. Class songs sponsored 
each class honorary.
d. Senior Farçwcll.
by
campus for the convenience of those 
who are athletically inclined.
To conclude the events for the 
“Heyday” the committee has. planned 
a Parade of Floats. In this event 
any campus group whatsoever, includ­
ing dormitories, fraternities, honor- 
aries, sororities and even the faculty 
arc eligible to enter a float. These
floats must be of an humorous, bur­
lesque nature and must cost no more 
than $15 to construct. Floats that 
are unseemly or obnoxious to the 
committee pf censors will be barred 
from the parade. All competing 
groups must submit their plans for 
their, respective floats to Mr. Davis 
at the “Y” office before next Tues-
Senate Party Changed
The Margaret Morrison Senate 
Party, which was scheduled for 
tomorrow afternoon, has been 
postponed until after Exhibition 
Night and will be announced later.
Studio Matinees Thursday
A special presentation of one-act 
plays directed by advanced stu­
dents of the drama department, 
known as a studio matinee, will be 
given Thursday afternoon at 3:30 
in the Union. No admission cards
Musical Revue by Students 
Billed for Last Night 
of Carnival
day. These plans will be kept secret 
by the committee in charge. - A cup 
will be presented. to the group which 
has, in the opinion of the judges, the 
best float. .
The second original presentation, 
the Musical Revue, will be tendered 
by a group of Carnegie students who 
hope that after this sample of what 
they can do they will be granted a 
charter to .form an organization for 
the purpose of presenting a similar 
musical show annually. The revue 
will be in the form of a scries of 
“skits” taken from outstanding shows 
and “takeoffs” on prize campus pe­
culiarities. Neither of Miese attempts 
at originality and distinctiveness will 
succeed' without the help and co­
operation of the students, especially 
that of the fraternities.
The Coronation and the Coronation 
Ball will, as usual, open the festivi­
ties. This year instead of the usual 
solemn conventions which were charac­
teristic of former Coronations, the 
committee has planned one which 
will, so to speak, “knock j'bur eye 
out,” but you'll have to wait until 
later for the details. Instead of hold­
ing this ceremon}r on the steps of 
(Continued on Page Four)^
Y.M.C.A. ELECTS 
LADD PRESIDENT
New Officers and Cabinet to 
Be Installed May 6
At the recent Y. M. C. 'A. elec­
tion which was held, among mem­
bers of the Committee on Manage­
ment and the freshman and general 
cabinets, John W. Ladd was elected 
to the presidency of next year’s 
cabinet. John Saylc'fc was elected 
vice president, and Richard Blair, 
a member of the freshman cabinet, 
was elected- secretary.
Mr. Ladd is enrolled as a junior 
in the Department of Printing. He 
is vice, president of the Pi Kappa 
Alpha social fraternity and is 
member of Alpha Tau, College of 
Industries honorary, and Pi Alpha 
Delta, printing honorary. He i: 
former freshman “Y” cabinet presi­
dent, former secretary of the gen­
eral cabinet, and this year he 
served in the capacity of vice presi­
dent. He is a junior editor of the 
Tartan, this year’s Advertising 
Manager of the Puppet, and a 
member of the Kiltid Band. He 
holds a Founder’s Scholarship for 
his scholastic achievements.
Mr. Sayles is a junior in the 
Department of Mechanical Engin­
eering, a member of the Kappa 
Sigma social fraternity, a member 
of the varsity football squad, and 
of the Druids, sophomore men’s 
honorary. Mr. Blair is a freshman 
in the College of Industries, a 
member of Kappa Sigma . social 
fraternityj president of the. fresh­
man class in Engineering and In­
dustries,' and a numeral man in 
cross-country.
The new officers and cabinet 
members will be installed at the 
Cook’s Woods outing of the Y. M.
(Continued on Page Four)
Theta Tau Calls 
Eight Engineers
Faculty Will Select Name For 
Piacque
On the basis of scholarship, ac­
tivities, personality and interest 
in the engineering profession, Theta 
Tau, national professional fraterni­
ty, made its spring call Sunday, 
selecting eight students from _ the 
College of Engineering.
Those who will receive the honor 
are: Charles D. Burton, chemical 
engineer; Robert S. Fish, electrical 
engineer; Harvey T. Harrod, elec­
trical engineer; John M. Harvey, 
electrical engineer; Robert J. Hav- 
erstick, civil engineer; Carlton E. 
Hunter, mechanical engineer; Charles 
R. Mayne. metallurgical engineer, 
and John E. Sayles, mechanical ’en­
gineer. A pledge meeting will be 
held today at 11:30 in Professor 
Daniels’ office, Room 2, Engineer­
ing Hall.
Beginning with this year Theta 
Tau will honor the outstanding 
engineer of each year’s graduating 
class by engraving the name of the 
selected engineer on a placque to be 
hung in the Administration Hall. This 
move has received the endorsement 
of the faculty and a method of 
selecting the recipient has been 
drawn up. One man from each de­
partment will be recommended by 
the head of that department for the 
(Continued on Page Three^
Awards to Be Presented 
in Little Theater on 
May 30
Have Served With 
Faculty For Years
Dr. Joseph H. James to 
Present Recognition 
Medals
To the three professors who 
have recently signified .their inten­
tions of retiring at the end of the 
school year, the Carnegie adminis­
tration will present individual fac­
ulty service medals as a recogni­
tion of their long and valuable 
work at Carnegie. After having 
been affiliated with the faculty 
'staff for many years, Director Wil­
liam E. Mott, Professor Frederick 
P. Colette and Professor George
H. Follows will abandon active 
educational endeavors and retire to private life.
A spec«* faculty and student as­
sembly will be held next Tuesday 
noon in the Little Theater, at 
which time these medals will be 
fprmally presented by Dr. Joseph
H. James, the faculty representa­
tive. This assembly will be con­
ducted by the Sfudent Council.
The committee which originated 
the design-of these medals, the 
first of their kind to be offered at 
Carnegie, acted through the Exec­
utive Board, and was composed of 
three members: Clarence Overend, 
Graduate Manager; ' Professor A.
H. Blaisdcll, of the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering, and- Dr. 
Joseph H. James, head of the De­
partment of Chemistry.
The three retiring professors 
have been connected with Car­
negie for many years, and have 
actively participated in aiding the 
growth of this institution. Director 
Mott came to this school in 1909, 
leaving Cornell University, and has 
served as the head of the Depart­
ment of Civil Engineering, Dean, 
and finally as Director of the Col­
lege of Engineering, which posi­
tion he now holds.
Professor Follows was a mem­
ber of the original faculty, com­
ing to Carnegie in 1905. At pres­
ent he is professor of Commcr-. 
cial Engineering. After retiring lie 
intends to return to his old home 
in Paris, Ontario, where he will 
devote his time to writing.
Professqr Colette has been with 
Carnegie for twenty-four years, 
coming to Carnegie from Wit- 
tenburg College in 1908. He in­
tends to travel upon retirement.
Seniors Give Bridge Tea
The seniors of Margaret Morri­
son Carnegie College will hold 
their last social function in the 
form of a bridge tea at Webster 
-Hall, Saturday, May 7, from 2 to o’clock.
Tickets will be distributed to one 
member in each department and 
will be sold at 50 cents each. 
Frances Schneider is chairman of the affair.
This bridge tea will be open 
only to seniors. Those wishing 
to attend are urged to sign the 
slips on the Margaret Morrison bulletin boards.
Coming Events
TUESDAY, APRIL 26
Joint “Y” Cabinet Meeting, Com­
mons Annex, 12:30.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27 
Men’s Glee Club Concert at 
Helping Hand Association.
Newman Club swimming party 
and dance at Webster Hall. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 29 
Cwen Meeting, Room 102, 12:30. 
Annual Exhibition Night.
SATURDAY, APRIL 30 
Men’s Glee Club Concert, 
tion KDKA.
SUNDAY, MAY 1 
Music Recital*. Little Theater, 
TUESDAY, MAY 3 
Cwen Tea-Dance, Thistle Hall, 
4-6.
State Examinations begin for 
Seniors in Colleges of Engineering 
and Industries.
Sta-
8:15.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, 'APRIL 26, 1932.
SURE-AU EXCEPT W LISTEN, JIM. WHEN 
PALMOLIVE ! jf YOUR BEARD GETS 
NOTHINq TOUCHES | AS TOUGH AS MINE 
AN OLIVE OIL I YOU'LL APPRECIATE 
SHAVINq CREAM | WHAT IT MEANS 
FOR A REAL SHAVE® TO GET A CLEAN, 
AND FOR KEEPING | CLOSE SHAVE- 
yOUft FACE FEEUNqS LIKE COU5ATEiSj 
FINE — NOTHING.J8L qiVES ME.
URE-AXC PTWC 
LIS N,J MS.HO.Vj 
Sf JY BfDjqS|,MC 
.S,M jfS ,GW
ALL BEAT-HANDS
k down 1 grgnf
HERE OAD-TRy 
A PEAL SHAVING 
CREAM- PALMOLIVE. 
ITHERE'S NOTHINO 
Bj^ LIKE IT/ J
Plebo Track and Tonnis Toami 
Play At Homo 
Wodnosday Aftornoon.
Varsity Trackers At Cincinnati, Sat. 
Pfebes Meet Clarion State 
In Plaid Bowl, Saurday.
MORE AND BETTER LAURELS arc in store for the 
fair-haired Captain Coulter and his gang of cindcr athletes if 
they should succeed in their efforts against the University of 
Cincinnati next Saturday. The pickings will not be as easy as 
those in Cleveland recently, for a ten hour bus ride is bound 
to have no good effects on the Skibo squad.
As will be remembered, last year in the Bowl, the Cincin­
nati runners came so close to winning the meet that another' 
Plaid victory is necessary to convince them that Coach Hal- 
fcrty’s squad is actually superior.* * * *
WITH THE HEAVY END of a 91 to 40 victory over the 
Red Gats, Carnegie’s trackers left Cleveland last Saturday night 
with the rumor that they arc approaching the standard of the 
''best yet” cinder squad to carry the Slcibo colors.
• In spite of a mild gale the runners sailed:, around -with an 
even keel, and the weight men threw their weights to the four 
winds. Jess Price finished the two miles with a half a lap to 
spare, while Schell furnished one of his dashing finishes which 
gave him a scant verdict in the half mile run.* * * *
THE FIRST WEEK OF MUSHBALL gave no startling 
results in the way of a sure winner. Players will continue to 
make errors as long as pencils arc built with erasers, and this 
is just one of the ways in wfrich a wise mushballer will bring 
his team into first place.
Our “believe it or not” for this week is taken from the ap­
pearance of two softball teams for a game where the officials 
did not show up. However, wc take the blame for this "typo- 
grapical” error in the printing of the schedule, and hope that 
both teams profited by their practice. There’s a rumor which 
makes it possible that the schedule printed in this issue may 
be correct.* * * #
WI-IE'1'i-IER CARNEGIE’S POTENTIAL GOLFERS will 
cast a club into Pittsburgh’s golf circles will be definitely set­
tled this week after the aspirants have turned in their scores 
to the Athletic Office. There is surely material for this sport, 
and an opportunity for its growth, will be given.
1 Golf teams of Pitt and Duquesne have already put in their 
appearance, the Panthers taking a decided 16 to 3 victory over 
the Dukes last week end. The city high school teams, with 
their active league, arc also supporting golf teams.* >?< #
INTRAMURAL ATHLETES arc left with one more chance 
to win a cup for the proverbial mantelpiece. This opportunity 
is in the annual track meet for, which, no plans have been made 
as yet.Whatever plans are made should include the elimination of
the long distance runs. These events are most exacting, and
require more time than the average student has to devote to
his training. More of the shorter dashes and a variety of
relays seem to be the correct substitute in this case.>H #
AT THE PRESENT RATE of manufacturing life savers 
I lie Carnegie .Institute is doing its share to protect the popula­
tion. Mr. Mosses predicts that twenty-five students will pass 
the Red Cross Life Saving tests now being held in the Tartan 
pool.* * * *
THERE’S A STRANGE CONNECTION between the eat­
ing capacity of the track team nnd their performances in the 
meets, for both activities arc being pursued in leaps and bounds. 
If left to their own judgment, the cinder etarB1 pre-running 
menu rcadB like a banquet program.
Plaid Trackers Try 
For Third Victory At Cincinnati, Sal
Skibos Show Well Bal­
anced Team As Red 
Cats Lose 91-49
Directory Of 
Carnegie Clans
CINCINNATI, OHIO Prcnldonl: W. M. Bull, Jr., 3328 Avory 
Lano.Vlcc-Proajdohtt Donald Du Vnll, 701 Fourth National Bank Building. ßecrotary-Trennurec: M. C. Sohwcrlm, enro o£ Worthington Pump & Machinery 
Co., IGO'l First Nntlonnl Bank Build­ing, Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND, OHIO Men’» CInn President: E. A. Johnson, 1310 ITnnnn Building.
Vico President: Raymond J. Woppjtcr,Electric Rcfrigoration Dept., General Electric Co., Hanna Bldg. Socrotnry-Trentmror: Richard H. Cutting,2915 National City Bank Building.Women’s Clan 
President: Margaret Foglo, Suite 5, 2130 Surrey Road, Cleveland Heights. Secrctary-Treasurer: Irene La Londo, 2G030. 
Bruce Road, Bay Village.
COLUMBUS, OHIO President: N. J. Engle, 26G S. High Street. Secrctary-Treasurer: J. R. Paloma, Dept, of Romance Langungea, Ohio State Uni­versity.CONNECTICUT President: W. S. Gallagher, 74 Orange 
Street, Hartford, Conn.Vice-President: Arthur Nelson, 86 RoweAvenue, Hartford.Secretary-Treasuror; Samuel Lebon, 48 VII- lago Street. Hartford.DETROIT, MICII.
President: W. Ray Williams, 5590 Lins- dale Avenue.Secrctary-Treasurer: Norris Tllhrook, 10- 137 General Motors Building.ERIE, PA.President: W. Spangenberg, 337 W. 11th St.
Vice-President: Maitland Smith, 230 E. 0th St.
Secretary: Mlehaol Sunera, Oil West 11th Street.
Treasurer: E. J. Hedlund, 453 W. 31st St..GOLDEN GATE (CALIFORNIA) Sccrctary: Mrs. R. L. Wharton (Ellr.ahoth 
Deurlng). 3002 Clinton Avenue, Rich­mond, California.
HARRISBURG, PA.Pronidont: Henry Y. Slmuh, 1120 Wheat­land Avenue. Lnncnutor, l’a,JOHNSTOWN, I’A.President! D. C. Crum, 401 Oak .St., Cono- muugh, Pa.Vicc-Prosldont: Walter Sontum, 304 Tho- burn Street.
Socrotary-TivaMirer: Mrs. Dale MeManters (Mary Williams), 110(1 Confer Avenue.MILWAUKEE, W1S.
President: 1?. O. Perrlno, In eiiro of Cutlor- Hnminer, Inc., 12th Street and St. Paul Avenue.
WOMEN’S ATHLETICS
Rillc
The Women's Rifle Team en­
joyed a successful season on the 
whole. Taking part in the Nation­
al Rifle Association, which includes 
the tcanis of colleges and univer­
sities in all parts of the country, 
the Carnegie Tech Team placed 
fourth. In an unofficial shouldcr- 
torshouldcr match with the Pitt 
girls in the Tech range, our wom­
en’s team Was victorious. The to­
tal 'score was 975 to 958 out of a 
possible 1,000.
Since only two girls' will be 
lost to the team next year; much 
is expected of tlie eight remaining. 
The • seasonal standing of the five 
high girls is as follows:
Vocgtly -----------,98.9
Brooks ------------------------ 97.6
Liiley .................................. 97.5
Wclty -------------------------- 96.7
Lowry —-----___----- 95.8
These five girls who will be 
awarded Rifle. Pins, Kidwcll, Rob­
erts, Schatz, Bray and Schmelz are 
varsity material for next year.
Volleyball 
A schedule of volleyball practices 
has been posted on all bulletin 
boards in Margaret Morrison for 
some time. As the games to de­
cide the school’s volleyball cham­
pion will start soon, everyone par­
ticipating in the sport should make 
sure that .slic has the required num­
ber of practices to her credit, to 
make a team. Bccausc the season 
is drawing to a close, everyone 
lin'd better get busy .now.
Secret ary-Tronntirer: Howard Dowhowor,2840 W. Highland Boulevard.
NEW YOltlC CITY Sewotnry: Mm. O. A. Diekman, 100-14 Asuan Avenue, Forest Hills, Lotur Is­land, N. Y.
The Carnegie track and field 
squad journeys to Cincinnati this 
week-end for its second dual 
meet of the season. Last year in 
the Bowl, the Cincinnati meet was 
one of the closest and most bit­
terly fought of the entire year and 
it was not until the last event 
that the disgruntled Ohioans were 
forced to accept defeat. The Cinncy 
trackers took the defeat quite to 
heart and this, coupled with the 
fact that they have a very good 
team, should serve to give Coach 
I-Ialforty and his scanty-clads a 
most severe test.
The Tartan trackslers officially 
opened their intercollegiate season 
in Cleveland last Saturday with a 
decisive 91-49 victory over West­
ern Reserve. Although the Skibos 
arc not yet in mid-season form,
they showed considerable improve­
ment over their initial perform­
ances and should round steadily 
into shape. This second victory 
served to iron out many of the 
rough spots as well as to give
the many sophomores their taste 
of dual competition.
Two Make Twenty-two
Murray Armcntrout and Artie 
Sigmund tied for individual hon­
ors with 11 points apiece.. The 
"Big Train," who usually special­
izes exclusively in the hammer
throw, sprang a big surprise by tak­
ing first in the shot and third in 
the discus a* well as winning his 
pel event. Sigmund lost to Ward 
of Reserve in the 100-yard dash, 
but put on a driving finish in the 
220 to win from the colored star. 
Artie also placed in the broad 
jump.
As Captain Coulter was not used 
in the 440, lie was forced to be 
content with firsts in the high and 
low hurdles. Tom also ran a very 
fast anchor on the unsuccessful. re­
lay team. Ewing and Brewer trail­
ed Ozimcc of Reserve in the quar­
ter. W. R. Ramsay, Plaid distance 
jStar; repeated last year's victory 
over Kelly in the mile run. In 
the two mile, the diminutive Jess 
Price ran a very fast 10:34 to 
win easily. Bobbie Schell again 
put on one of his thrilling finishes 
to nose out two Reserve men by 
inches after trailing throughout the 
full half-mile distance.
In the field events Carnegie was 
quite superior to tho Red Cats. 
Ralph Merten won the high jump
For the Coming Formal
Rent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZESPERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phone: Residence Phone:
ATLANTIC 9595 EVERGLADE 0918
Sporta Calendar
Aprii 27—Plebe Truck vai Schonlcy High, Itero.
Aprii 27—Viimlly Tennis, ai Dtniuesno. Aprii 27—Plebe Tennis vs. Duduesno, bora. 
Aprii 211—Plebe Tonnis vs. Sltady Siile, libro.
Aprii 311—Vurslty Tennis, at Groio City Aprii 3(1—Plebe Truck vs. Clarion Stale Toacltcrs' Cnllogo, bere.Aprii 30—Varsll.v Trarli, al Cincinnati. 
May 2—Varully Tennis, al W. .1.Mny 2—Plebo Tennis Vs. W. J., Itero.May 1—Plebe Tennis, nt Dmiuesnc.
May 4—-Varnlly Tennis vs. Duijucsnci. bere.
May 4—Plebo Trnck, at Kiskl.
May (i—Plebe Tennis va. Mi. Lebanon, bere.
May 7—Varslly Tennis vs. Alimmi, bere.Mny 7—Varslly Trnclc vs. W. & .!., bere. May 11—Varslly Tennis, at Pili.Mny 9—Plebo Tennis vs. IMlt, bere
Mny 11—Plebe Tennis, at Sltady Side.Mrty 11—Varslty Tennis vs. Grove City, bere.
May 13—Plebe Track, at Sltndy SideAcndoinyJMny 13—Plebe Tennis vs. liiski, bei...
Mny 11—Vnrsily Tennis vs. Tempie, bere.Mny 14—Vnrsily Track, at Genova.Mny 1G—Vnrsily Tennis vs. ’Piti, hcrc.Mny Ili—Plebe Tennis, nt Piti.Mny 17—A'nrsily Track, at Pitt.May 17—Plebe Track, al Pitt.
May 20—Varsily Tennis, nt Gcorgclnwn. May 21—Varslly Tennis, at Johns Hopkins. May 21:—Vnrsily Track vs. Tempio, bere. Mny 20—Vnrsity Tennis vs. W. & J., Itero. Mny 23—Plebe Tennis, at W.. & .1.May 2G—Vnrsity Track vs. Grovo City, bore.
Interfrat-Dorm Mushball Schedule Opens 
As Eight Teams Vie in First Week’s Games
Mushball season opened with a 
bang last week, Boss I-Iall taking the 
A. T. O.’s across to the tune of 9-4. 
Standt pitched for the dorm men 
and kept the Alpha Tau’s hits few 
and scattered. The game, however, 
was typical of all opening games and 
both sides were chalked up with 
quite, a few errors, some of them 
being very costly for the Clyde Street 
boys and indirectly resulting in their 
defeat.
The Alpha Sigma Phi-Sigma Nu 
game was won 1-0 on a forfeit when 
their opponents failed to show up in 
the allotted time. All teams should 
remember this phase of the rules this 
year, since it has been decided that 
there will be no postponed games, 
due to the mixup in schedule. The 
lime allotted for teams to show up 
is ten minutes, and after that time the 
game will be automatically ruled a 
forfeit.
Bela Thela Pi displayed a powerful 
team when they decisively white­
washed the Senior architects 11-4. 
Red Fergus, backed by some nice 
fielding and hitting, pitched a good 
game and held the Arts school boys 
down to a few scattered hits. In 
the meantime the Bela boys clouted 
the ball about the lot nearly at will 
and ; in the sixth inning piled up six 
runs to put the game on ice.
Welch' Hall won a close one from 
Delta Upsilon 7-5, and nine innings 
were necessary to make the decision. 
The score was 5-2 at the beginning 
of the seventh inning in favor ol 
the D. U.’s and eve ything ,seemed 
to be decided until the dorm men 
launched a delayed rail)'. One run 
was batted in and' then, with one 
man, on, Kopriva lifted one to the 
far end of the lot for a homer and 
tied the score. The eighth frame 
was scoreless, but the ninth saw the 
dorm men again bring in two runs 
which gave them the game,
THIS WEEK’S GAMES:
Games Called at 5:20 P. M. 
Tuesday, April 26
Thela Xi vs. Henderson Hall.
Rho Damit Rho, ,vs. Tau Delta Phi.
Wednesday, April 27
Delta Sigma Lambda vs. McGill 
Hall.
Kappa Sigma vs. Delta Tau Delta.: 
Thursday, April 28
Phi Kappa vs. Pi Kappa Alpha.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Kappa 
Delta Rho.
Monday, May 2
Alpha Sigma Phi vs. Boss Hall.
Sigma Nu vs. A. T. O.
LAST WEEK’S RESULTS
Alpha Sigma P. 1 Sigma Nu........
Ross Iiail.... 9 Alpha Tau 0._
Welch Hall....... 7 Dcita Upsilon. «5
Bela, Thela Pi- 11 Senior Archi’ts.
and placed second to Ray Barger 
ill) the pole vault. Brin die' and Ford, 
two of Carnegie’s most improved 
field men, placed second and third 
respectively in the javelin throw. 
Forsman, Stcntz and Armcntrout 
swept the discus throw in that or­
der and ’ Blain • finished third to 
Army in the shot. Stcntz took 
second in the hammer throw.
C. S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor Street
Canvass of Golfers to 
Give Team Possibility
The possibility of a Car­
negie Golf team ior the near 
or more distant future is be­
ing determined by the collec­
tion of scores from students 
who play the game with a 
fair degree of success. Any 
students who consider them­
selves on a par with college 
playing should record their 
efforts with Mr. Overend in 
the Athletic Office some time 
this week.
A similar canvass was con­
ducted earlier this year with 
not much success. Only four 
entries were received. Their 
scores were pretty good, but 
more golfers must be discov­
ered before anything definite 
can be done. If interest- 
runs high there is a chance 
for some spring playing.
Plebes Run Two
Meets At Home
Plcbe track and field men are ex­
periencing a busy week with two 
meets on their hands. Schenley High 
is cxpcctcd to offer little opposition 
this Wednesday afternoon while the 
Clairoil Stale Teachers appear for 
their annual meeting next Saturday. 
Both meets will be held in the Bowl.
Plaid Freshmen made it two in a 
row when they defeated the Union 
High of Turtle Creek last Saturday 
with a score of 61 ! 2 47. The high 
school boys were able to keep abreast 
of their opponents in the track events, 
the score being tied at 27 for the 
races;
Pcrina was the individual star for 
the day. His three first places in 
the 100, 220 and the broad jump, 
contributed 1'5 points to the Plcbe 
score. Perina traveled the hundred, 
in a fast 10.2 time.
Brown and Piatkowski gave the 
Plcbes a margin in the-field events 
with a fine showing in the shot put 
and discus. Zcbroski, of Union High, 
made an exceptional throw .of 168 
feet 2 inches in the javelin.
SCABBARD-BLADE
Plaid Netmen To 
Open Season On 
Duquesne Courts
Plebes Drop First „Match to 
Mt. Lebanon, 6-1
With the most promising squad 
the Scotch'school has seen ill some 
time, Coach B. P. Hoover will send 
his 1932 net team into action for the 
first time on Wcdncsdaj'. Duquesne 
will furnish the opposition. While 
the Tartans will be odds-on favorites 
to win, it is cxpcctcd that the Bluff 
aggregation will make it plenty tough 
for the Plaid in several positions.
< While the starting lineup has not 
yet been determined, sincc the play­
offs are still under way, it is almost 
a certainty that Everett Groves will 
be in No. 1 position. He is one of 
the most improved players on the 
courts, having consistently beaten off 
all competition this Spring. Gosling,1 
Duegcr and Iiartig arp also fairly 
secure in their positions.
Of the new players on the squad, 
Irwin Jalonack, the pride of Englc- 
brccht Hall, has shown the most class 
so far. Starling out in No. 10 posi­
tion last Fall, he has fought his 
way up into fifth placc. On Saturday 
he starred by beating Mel Morris, 
last season’s captain, in a hard three 
set match.
The Plcbes opened the season last 
Tuesday when they dropped a 6-1 
decision to Mt. Lebanon High School. 
The squad had had only one day in 
the open, so their poor showing was 
to be expected. This week they play 
at home, meeting the Duquesne Fresh­
men on Wednesday and Shadyside on 
Friday.
On Saturday the varsity will play 
its second meet against Grove City 
College at Grove City. Little is 
known of the strength of the up- 
State team.
Survey Made Of
Social Workers
Little Unemployment Found 
Among Alumni
A survey of the graduates of the 
Social Work Department of Mar­
garet Morrison has recently been 
completed. Each year question­
naires are sent out to the gradu­
ates of this department; this year 
questionnaires were returned by 
the last of February and show a 
favorable comparison with prcviou? 
years.
Salaries range from $1,400 to 
$3,200; it is apparent from the 
questionnaires that the salary is 
dependent upon the ability of the 
individual conçerned as well as 
upon the policy of the agency in 
which the graduate is employed, 
for persons graduating in the same 
year are receiving salaries ranging 
from $1,680 to $3,200 in one case. 
Considering the fact that each year 
workers leave the field through 
marriage, and a new group of in­
experienced graduates enter the 
field, the comparison sçems to be 
a favorable one. There is prac­
tically no unemployment among 
the social work graduates; the 
questionnaires submitted show that 
(Continued on Page Three)
TECH MANOR
Home Cooked Dinners
5232 FORBES STREET 
SQUIRREL HILL, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Week-Day Dinners, 50c
5:30-6:30
Sunday Dinners, 75c 
5:00-6:30
COME OVER THIS EVENING 
Mrs. Grace Waugnman Phone MA. 2178
CLAN NEWS
Cleveland Clan
The Carnegie Woman’s Clan of 
Cleveland has hit upon a rather 
original plan to raise money this 
spring. It consists of various 
members^ of the • Clan holding 
“Depression Bridges,” char g'i n g 
each guest 79 cents. One of the 
parties was -held at the home of 
Miss Margaret Fogle, M. ’29..
The next monthly luncheon of 
the men’s clan will be held Mon- 
dajr, May 2, at Kasses’ Restaurant. 
The price of the luncheon is 35 and 50 cents.
Cincinnati Clan
The Cincinnati Clan is making 
plans to attend the Carnegie Track 
meet that is being held in their 
city on April 30.
The team will ,arrive Friday 
night at 10 o’clock, and the meet 
will be held at the Cincinnati Uni­
versity Field. Guy Halferty, the 
coach of -the track team, is a 
graduate bf Carnegie in the class 
of 1908. .
Caribbean Cruise
A movie-taking expedition 
into the Caribbean Sea has 
room for a few students. The 
party will sail in a four- 
masted schooner and be away 
for three months.
Expenses for the trip are 
$250 with an opportunity to 
share in the profits of the 
films upon releasement.
For information see Joe 
Michaelson, 5549 Forbes 
street. Schenley 1490.
(Continued from Page One) 
attended the • National Convention 
and while there, they petitioned 
for the next convention lo be held 
on the Carnegie campus.
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND
OFFICERS
PITTSBURGH
RICKARD K. MELLON______
l'HOS. H. McCANDLESS........IIARRY S. BROWN....................
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK... J. NEVIN GARBER...PAULEDMUNDSON...
.................................„....President...Vice President and Cashier
..................„...Assistant Cashier
-------------„...Assistant Cashier
________„....Assistant Cnshlor
........................„„...Trust Officer
THOMAS S. BAKER 
President Carnegie Institulo of 
Technology 
JAMES M. BOVARD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys
JOHN G. BOWMAN 
Chancellor University of Pittsburgh
JOHN F. CASEY 
President John F. Casey Co.
ELMER E. COLL President National Union Fire 
Insurance Company
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
HERBERT A. MAY 
Vico President Union Drawn Steel. 
Company 
THOMAS H. McCANDLESS Vico President and Cashier 
RICHARD K. MELLON President; Director 
Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S._ MOORHEAD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE 
Vice President Wm. B. Scaifa 
& Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director Mellon Institute of Industrial 
Research
She prefers 
A PIPE
(For you)
H
ER name is Ruth. She’s a popular 
co-ed on a famous campus. Yes, 
she’ll have a cigarette, thank you (and 
smoke it very prettily). But for you she 
liltes a pipe.
That’s one smoke that’s still a man’s 
smoke. (And that’s why she likes to see 
YOU smoke a pipe.)
There’s something 
companionable 
aboutapipe.Friend- 
ly, cool, mellow... 
it clears your mind, 
puts a keen edge on 
your thinking.
And you sound 
the depths of true 
smoking satisfaction 
when you fill up its 
bowl with Edgeworth.
. There,men,isaREALsmoke. Choice 
mellow burleys, cut especially for pipes 
—blended for the man who knows his 
fine tobaccos. It’s cool, dry, satisfying 
—and you’ll find it 
first in sales, first 
choice of smokers, 
in 42 out of 54 lead­
ing colleges.
We’d like nothing 
better than to 
drop in tonight and toss our own 
private tin across 
your study table.
But since that can’t 
be, just remember 
that you can. get 
Edgeworth at your dealer’s—or send 
for free sample if you wish. Address 
Lams & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., 
Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is n blend of fine old burleys, 
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge­
worth’s distinctive 
and cxclusivc elev­
enth process. Buy 
Edgeworth any­
where in two forms 
—EdgeworthReady- 
Rubbed and Edge- 
worth Plug Slice. All 
sizes, 15P pocket 
package to £1.50 
pound humidor tin.
YOUR emokt— 
a pipe I
HORNIN 01 THIS
*25,000!
464 CASH PRIZES THIS MONTH-2 FIRST PRIZES OF $500 EACH
WRITE A 
"BLURB"!
S
EE those "blurbs” coming out of the men’s 
mouths? Gin you write one? We’re put­
ting up $25,000 in cash for those who can.
Get your pencil out—now!
Here’s the idea. In a field of 176 compet­
ing brands, Colgate’s and Palmolive are the 
two outstanding leaders. They have won an 
overwhelming preference over all other 
shaving creams.
We know that Palmolive users swear there’s 
nothing as good as Palmolive. And Colgate 
shavers claim that Colgate's beats ’em all in 
a walk.
What we want is your opinion. Do you side 
with Jim or his Dad in the big Palmolive vs. 
Colgate's argument? Are you a Colgate fan 
or a Palmolive booster. Let’s hear from you!
In ONE of the empty "blurb” spaces, or on 
a separate sheet of paper, just say your say. In 
your own words, write yourboost for Colgate’s 
—or for Palmolive— not both. 464 cash prizes 
each month for the best “blurbs” sent to us!
CONTEST RULES
Here’s where you take your shot 
at some of that $25,000
Jim •wants you Palmolive users to back him up. IBs Dad wants every Colgate shaver’s help. If you haven’t 
tried either of these famous shaving creams, start 
now and gee into this $25,000 argument.
Here are the prizes for each 
month—464 in all!
KAIL your "blurb” with name jLVl and address to Contest 
Editors, Dept. G-3, P. O. Box 
1133, Chicago, Illinois.
The prize money (totaling 
$25,000) is divided into six sets 
of monthly prizes (each set total­
ing $4200). At the end of each 
mondi prizes are awarded (see 
list at right) for the best "blurbs” 
received during that month, as 
follows:
Feb. 29, $4200 Mar. 31,$4200 
April 30, $4200 May 31, $4200 
June 30, $4200 July 31, $4200 
{Contest closes July jr, 1932}
Contest is open only to resi­
dents of the United States and 
Canada, Employes of the manu­
facturers and their families are not 
eligible to compete.
In event of a tie, each tying 
contestant will be awarded full
amount of the prize tied for. De­
cision of the judges shall be final. 
All contributions shall become 
the property of the manufactur­
ers, to be used in any way desired.
Some hints to help you win 
Here are some facts about die 
world’s two largestsellingshaving 
creams—Colgate’s and Palmolive. 
Here are some of the reasons 
why men prefer these famous 
shaving creams.
PALMOLIVE
1. Multiplies itself in lather 250 times.
2. Softens the beard in 00c minute.
3. Maintains its creamy ftülcess for 10 minutes.
4. Fine after-effects due to olive oil 
content.
COLGATE’S
1. Breaks up oil film that covers each hair.
2. Small bubbles get down to the base 
<tf the beard, hold water against each hair at skin-line and soak it soft where the razor works.
3. Gives a close, skin-line shave due to small bubble action.
A. Gives a lasting. 24-hour shave.
For Best Colgate 
"blurbs”
1st . . 
2nd. . 
3rd . . 
9 next . 
20 next 
200 next
r
. $500 
. 125 
. 50
. 25
. 10 
5
For Best Palmolive 
“blurbs”
1st . . . 
2nd.
3rd . .
9 next . , 
20 next 
200 next ,
Spee akingeW1 1
1 Men! A beautiful gift box 1
1 • . . , 1j contaimnggenerous trial j
[ tubes of both Colgate’s and j
I Palmolive Shaving Creams, !
j as well as other useful toilet ;
| products, is being distrib- j
I uted. If you fail to getyours,
; ask the business manager
j of this paper why.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 26. 1932.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
'THE OAKLAND 
BANK"
OFFICERS
UR ER -AXCPTTWLTISSSN,JR M.HOR
VjR fR YVBBCLSSSSSSSSSSN,JH DqR
0R |R CIGVSSSSSSKnL A'JO trai.
FR |R UWTTWGSSS-®jR N,K5 i—.ORR
WR UR AW8GkSSSSSSSSdojYjw T.KnR
-1-Y ^WPUWCSSSSSSSSS-qjR EKKRPeoples» 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
BOARD OF ADVISERS
UR MjR -/'K®r&.j0 
f3®np IR U'3.X 
f&0® 1'q''®p
MMqR CR EO®3r3®mO. 
fR L&pK.3 F'3®®K./
BR IR kKj0&KMK. 
UR ®R ^3.. 
fR 0R Y,''3. 
LR fR Y,''K.
f&0® kR D3r
-w ER P0K3j3
Oakland Branch
Forbes & Meyran
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE NIGHT STUDENTS.Übe Carnegie flMaiò
ANNUAL EXHIBITION— FRIDAY, APRIL 29
Student
From the signs 'and activities 
about the campus the glad and 
glorious spring time is here. You 
ask what signs—well, first of all, 
we have the blades of grass spring­
ing ilp on the soft turf upon which 
Fritz has expended so much effort 
and attention. It must break his 
heart to cut the ten.der things, else 
lie would not be so boisterous 
in -his protestations when a mere 
student attempts to tread upon 
them.* * .* *
Our attention is next brought to 
the annual exhibition which is held 
in the spring of the year. Prepara­
tions are now in progress to have 
one of the best exhibitions ever 
shown to the people of Pittsburgh 
Friday, April 29. Will I be there? 
Well just watch me. I wouldn’t 
miss one—no sir—not one, on a 
bet? These exhibitions are cer­
tainly the best means of showing 
the public what we do on our
campus. So you better plan on
coming out this Friday and get an 
eyeful of what's what out here.* * * *
The next thing which denotes 
spring is that we are operating 
our classes on the daylight saving 
time. We were told in the Plaid
1 .that this schedule would go into
effect - Monday, April 25—the day 
before you will read this ramble, 
so the. classes will have already 
stated on the new schedule. I am 
wondering how many will forget 
and come an hour late for class.* * * *
Another thing which 'portends the 
coming of spring is the roller rink 
activities of the eds and co-eds. 
Nightly we see them urging their 
feet along to the tune of eight 
rollers on the bridle path in Schen- 
ley and on the violet path between 
the two yellow truck horses which 
prohibit the entrance of motor ve­
hicles. The violet path seems to 
be/ the- most popular place. Yes, 
\Vn—"sprig” is here in all its glory.* * * *
And when spring comes you can 
prepare for the final show-down on 
everything. It’s the time when we 
night students find out that we 
have spent another year on the 
campus and take a reckoning of 
what has been accomplished. The 
profs, will have the proof in a 
short time and the I’s, F’s, and 
R’s will predominate as usual. It’s 
hard lo convince the parties who 
sit at the other end of the desks 
that 'you know something. They 
have an uncanny way, Scotch, if 
you like, of finding out what you 
really know.
Supplementary Term
During the Supplementary Term, beginning May 9, courses will be offered, as stated on pages 33, 34, 112, and 113 of the 1931-32 catalog of Night Courses, in the College of Engineering and the College of Indus­tries. In the College of Fine Arts one subject, Ati-502, will be offered.
Particular attention is called to E-43 and to Cn-127. E-43 PhysicsIII is given only in the Supplementary Term, is given only every third year, and is required for the bachelor’s degree in engineering courses. Cn-127 Elementary English Literature is likewise offered only in the Supplementary Term and only every third year; it is offered for students who wish to secure additional credit in English to apply toward the degree admission requirements.
Ail subjects are scheduled May 9 to July 8, inclusive, unless other­wise indicated.
Registration will be held during the week of May 2-6 between 7:00 and 9:00 and on Monday, May 9, between 6:30 and 7:15 in the Registrar’s office. In registering, students should present their original registration receipt card. Students who withdraw the first week will receive a refund of tuition fee less $2.00; no refunds arc made after the first week. Subjects with less than twelve registrants may be withdrawn.Any student who wishes information or advice concerning his plans for the supplementary term should call at the Registrar’s office.
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERINGStudents following a degree should schedule one of the following subjects, in accordance with information on pages 52-55 and 104-109 of the 1931-32 catalog of Night Courses: C-109, C-110, C-352, C-401, C-402, E-20, E-22, E-43, E-276, or Shops (1-720, 1-740, 1-760, 1-780). F~}3,Cn-127 and Shops arc given only every third year; C-352, E-22 and E-276, in alternate years.
The work of the first term of C-109, C-110, C-352, C-401, C-402, E-20 and E-22 will be given from Hay 9 to June 8; that of the second term, from June 8 to July 8. The work of the first term of C-54 will extend from May 9 to June 22; that of the second term, from June 22 to August5. The fees marked * includc a $5.00 laboratory deposit or materials fee.I. First Year SubjectsC-51 Algebra, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 51 ($12.)C-52 Trigonometry, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 52 ($12.)
E-176b Gen. Chemistry, rcc., 2nd term, M. F., 7:30-9:45, E. H. 215 ($9.)E-176b Gen. Chemistry, lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. H., 215, 214 ($11.)*II. Second Year SubjectsC-53b An. Gcom. & Calc. I, 2nd term, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H., 205 ($12.)
E-41b Physics I, rcc., 2nd term, M. F., 7:30-9:45, E. H. 209, 212 ($9.)E-41b Physics I, lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. H. 102, 107 ($6.)C-401 Drwg .& Dcsc. Gcom. I, both termsi M. W. F., 7:00-10:30, Ind. 345 ($26.)*
III. Upper Year SubjectsE-20 Mechanics I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 50 ($12.)E-22 Mechanics III, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 55, $12.)E-43 Physics III.'M. W. F., 7:30-10:30, E. H. 209, 211, 204 ($18.)E-276 Surveying I, M. W. F., 7:30-10:30 and Sat., 1:30-4:30, May 9 to June 11, E. H. 60 ($12.)
tC-54 Analytic Geom. & Calc. II both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, May 9 to Aug. 5, E. H. 207 (Ind. 210 after July 8) ($18.)C-402 Drwg. & Dcsc. Gcom. II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:00-10:30, Ind. 346 ($26.)*
1-720 Machine Practice, F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 107 ($6.)1-740 Forge, W., 7:30-10:30, Ind. 7 ($6.)1-760 Foundry, Til., 7:30-10:30, Ind. 23 ($6.)1-780 Patternmaking, M, 7:30-10:30, Ind. 232 ($6.)IV. Elective Subjects C-109 or C-110 English I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind. 131 A ($12.)
C-352 Economics II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind. 255 A ($12.)V. Special SubjectsE-574 Fuels, Combustion, and Stokers, Tu. Th., 7:30-9:30, May 10 to June 9, M. H. 103 ($8.)
Cn-127 Elcm. English Literature, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. Ii. 71 ($12.) (For entrance credit.)
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIESI. For Students in Vocational Courses:
For Students who are planning to complete one of the four-year courses leading to a certificate, the following subjects in mathematics, physics, and mechanical drawnng arc offered. In each subject the work of the 'first term will- be given from May 9 to June 8; the work of the second term, from June 8 to July 8. Students may register for the work, of cither term or for the work of both terms. The tuition fee for the w-ork of both term’s in any subject is $12; few the work of one 
term, $6. .Each subject is scheduled Monday, Wednesday. Friday 7:30-9:30.
Cn-21 Vocational. Mathematics (E. Ii. 69.)Cn-23 Elementary Algebra (E. H. 70.)Cn-25 Elementary Trigonometry (Ind. 340 A.)Cn-26 Plane Geometry A (E. Ii. 120.)
NIGHT ARTS CLOSES 
SEASON WITH DANCE
If you happened to be passing 
¡by Thistle Iiall on the night of 
April 16 and saw strange, misty 
lights filtering through its win­
dows, heard the syncopated, capti­
vating rhythm of a fine dance 
orchestra, and struggled violently 
with yourself to suppress your 
desire to take part in terpsichorean 
pleasures, you could not be blamed, 
because the occasion was the last 
dance of the' Night College of, 
Fine Arts.
It was a grand and colorful 
event, one that will not be soon 
forgotten and a fitting climax to 
a successful social season of the 
Night College of Fine Arts. .
Each lovely young lady as she 
entered was presented with a rose 
of rare beauty which blended with 
her own charm and personality, 
and scented the air with its sweet 
fragrant perfume.
The natural beauty of Thistle 
Hall w’as enchanced by numerous 
stately palms placed appropriately 
about the floor, while bushy ferns 
adorned the orchestra stand in 
great numbers.
Music of a high order was iut/ 
nished by Billy Rose and .his 
Orchestra, and quaint little dance 
programs stamped in gold served 
to record the dances and marked 
a departure from the usual kind. 
Professor and Mrs. Raymond Sini- 
boH were chaperons for the occa­
sion.
Members of the Night Arts' 
Social Committee and their able 
chairman, Paul Stevens, arc to be 
complimented on the brilliant suc­
cess of the Arts dances since their 
spirit and diligence was greatly 
responsible for the many successes.
•E. .
DID]A NOTICE
THAT Sharpshooter Marison 
has the real low down on the 
tuition fees, but don’t rejoice 
too soon.
THAT the Arts school elosed 
their social season in a style 
that only those artists are 
capable of.
THAT Exhibition night will 
give a good many of us a 
chance to show off to Mr. and 
Mrs. Public.
THAT next week head aches 
will be very much in style as 
final exams begin to exert their 
sinister influence.
THAT the big burden on the 
night school graduate’s mind 
last week was, “Is my Thistle 
picture in yet?”
THAT the balmy Spring air 
seems to have turned the cor­
ridors of the Arts school into 
a lovers paradise.
THAT tickets for the Little 
Theater production this week 
available for night students 
were less than usual, and we 
never did get any.
THAT that’s that and I’ll be 
sccnyaI
THETA TAU CALLS \
(Continued from pago 1) consideration of the awarding com­
mittee. This award will be made 
during Carnival Week.
The candidate for the award must 
be a senior enrolled in an engineering 
course in the College of Engineer­
ing. He must have a factor above 
4.0, and must not fail to-complete 
his course in four years.
The following are the points upon 
which the award will be based: (1) 
distinguished scholarship, (2) engi­
neering ability, (3) breadth of inter­
est, (4) unselfish activity, (5) leader­
ship, (6) integrity, and (7) de­
pendability and regularity.
E-99 Vocational Physics (E. H. 111.)In-101 Mechanical Drawing A (Ind. 319.)In-102 Mechanical Drawing B (Ind. 319.)In-103 Mechanical Drawing C (Ind. 319.)II. For students in the General Course:For each of the following subjects, except Cn-28, the calendar dates, schedule hours, and tuition fees are the same as those of the subjectslisted above. Cn-28 will continue for a period of thirteen weeks, May9 to Aug. 5 the work of the first term will be given from May 9 to June 22; that of the second term, from June 22 to August 5. The tuition fee for both terms of Ctir28 is $18; for either term alone, $9. ‘Cn-29 Plane Geometry A, same as Cn-26, listed above.Cn-127 Elementary English Literature (E. Ii. 71.)E-97 Elementary Physics A (E. Ii. 111.)E-98 Elementary Physics B (E. Ii. 100.)E-97-98 Elementary Physics A-B, 1st term, same as E-97.E-97-98 Elementary Physics, A-B, 2nd term, same as E-98.Cn-28 Algebra B, May 9 to August 5 (Ind. 209.)COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
An-502 Pictorial and Decorative ,Design II, M. W. F., 7:00-10:00, May 9 to June 10, inclusive, Arts 302 ($10.)
ROSCOE M. IIIRIG,Director of Night Courses.
ANNUAL EXHIBITION
^ Friday, April 29, is designated as 
Exhibition on the school calendar, It 
is the time when all the departments 
demonstrate the work done during 
the year. A, number of interesting 
experiments are performed and the 
intricacies arc demonstrated to the 
astonished public.
Each department features some spe­
cial exhibit and one is kept on the 
go constantly in order to cover all 
the campus buildings during the three 
hours which constitute the exhibit.
The evening part of the program 
will commence with the parade of 
the R. O. T. C. in conjunction with 
the Kiltie' Band. The ceremony will 
commcncc at 7 p. in. and at the 
conclusion of the drill the doors of 
the building will be thrown open to 
the visitors.
Preparations for handling a record 
number of visitors have been made 
and information desks will be placed 
at nijic points on the campus • in 
order to direct the visitors to the 
various points of interest.
Inter-Night College Dance
Next Function Sponsored 
By Night Student Council
The next social function to be 
offered by the Night Student Coun­
cil will be the Inter-Night College 
Dance. This dance is the windup 
of all the social activities of the 
night students and is always the 
time when a last fling is made, a 
sort of reaction to the long grind 
of the school term.
The tickets for the party have 
been mailed out to the workers 
and plans arc being made for 
another successful dance. The 
committee docs not give any 
vancc information on what is 
planned, but it is an assured fact 
that this dance will be as colorful 
and mirthful as any of the others 
which have been held.
mg-** optnm&®.®®,,G& DURE-A NIG HT
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
ARTISTS and 
ILLUSTRATORS
POST-SUN Buildmq 
DVTTPE8LkI 
D0&,,,P,kL3®' 1654 &. 1655
SURVEY MADE
many married graduates who have 
no children arc employed in full
time positions, and in seven cases 
graduates with one or two chil­
dren haye part time positions.
Nominat
Final Spring Carnival Dope
1. Carnival Tags, $1.50 each.
2- Carnival Show included in price of tags.
3. Two dances—Thursday and Friday.
4. A full program Thursday till Sunday.
Send in your order, now for tag«. Addre*» 
Spring Carnival Committee. Check, to Jame, Cor­rigan, Treasurer.
PLAN TO BE HERE!
At the Night College of Fine
ArtsDance on April 16, in
Thisle Hall, a gold ring set
withfour rubies and one dia-
mom. It is requested that the
finder leave ’the ring at the
Lostand Found Department,
Baseneiit of Administration, and't-rccei•e reward.
Firsjt Church of Christ 
sFarnIasI ACLYDE ST.. PITTSBURGHSUNDAY SERVICES
11 A. \ M. 8 P. M.Sundajy School 11 A. M.
|K:®Kp:3/ ClK®,®m TKpj,q&®/ YKKj,®m 
M -j 8;00 DR YRSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
All Team tlon ! themse acholar courte? lisher’s 
to a pr Antho: Porto
NOTICE
Crew Members, Supervisors, Captains, and Student subscrip- alespeople who wish to avail ves of the opportunity for free §hip made possible through the y of the Leading Magazine Pub- again this year are requsted y to the national organizer, M. y Stelle, Jr., Box 244, San Juan, Rico, stating qualifications fully.
T!1TEWRITERS
All Makes Sold and 
' Rented
Special Rates to Students
ARo
C
Stan
'1
C
The
jency Underwood, 
yal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
dard Typewriter Go,
5 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342
CAMAPU
1 Personal Writing Mechina
Fraternity Begins 
at Sea!
Join th- .nerry company who sail the ocean blue to Europe 
... in the Tourist Class of Lloyd Express and Cabin Liners. 
Right gaily you’ll be initiated with dances, deck sports, jol­
lifications, masquerades, Munchenerabencis, tournaments, and 
just doing as you please. Your club house is an ocean villa 
of comfortable staterooms, lounges, broad decks, delicious 
food, with genuine Lloyd hospitality and service.
ENGLAND • FRANCE * IRELAND • GERMANY 
*Go abroad to study this summer at orfe of the foreign uni­
versities. The Lloyd will take you there.
32 to 52 Day Tours
Marco Polo couldn’t do better! 5 to 7 countries in Europe 
... great cities and local color of England, France,“Germany, 
Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Holland, Belgium, Czecho-Slo- 
vakia. Convenient sailings on Lloyd Liners. A remarkable 
bargain arranged by StudentPleasure Tours, Inc., and the Open 
Road. The price includes round-trip passage, hotels, meals, 
sightseeing, transportation, baggage, and other incidentals. 
$195 up. Sign up now!
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
57 ELW-1|-A t GC| AWL^ UVTA 
407 WOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
Telephone Court 3320, or your local agent
ess
^ say of smokers
Chesterfield Radio Program
MON. &THUR. TUES. & FPl WED. K SAT.
Comingg Evne RUTH
tvmsnqm VqSA ETTING
10i30p.m. E.D.T. 10:30p.m.E.D.T. lOp.m.E.D.T. 
SHItKRET'S ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday 
k NORMAN BP.OKENSHIP.E, Announcer 
COLUMBIA NETWORK
..ALL YOU COULD ASK FOR
W 1932w Ijgcett e Yqj T&v3y
LOST

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1932.
PBONE MAYFLOVT1IH 3««»
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALL
Editor In Cblrf- UuiilncM Mar.nitorPlnld Editor ---------------------------Schenloy 238S
I’nMlthwl ohm evi-ry w*«k darlnK th* collo«# ytmr by anfJerjfr«f!oRt*ii of Cnrnejfk 
Inrtita'.* of Twchr.oloiry. EnUr«d In Iho Piitnburjfh Po»t OfTIc» a» ••cond-clMi mntUrr.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF____
BUSINESS MANAGER. MANAGING EDITOR-
PLAID EDITOR-----------NEWS EDITOR..
THE STAFF
—Harry D. Kolb -Edward Steiner _Mary Ilauscr
EXCHANGE EDITOR.
-Edward E. McDonald__________Nancy Sloan______Gertrude Novak
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vincent McBride Zorelda Mazza Assignment Editor_Howard Maxwell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Roy Grant Betty PrellerJulius Ilalpern Dolly Allison Harry Hower Ruth Phillips John Ladd Henrietta SteinbergChristine Leighou Marjorie DoughertyAlumni Editor------Mary TownsendCartoonist-------------u_Edna Pearson
BUSINESS STAFF 
Junior Manager,
_W. Waldman
CIRCULATION STAFFManager----------------------W. FinglassA. Pryce-Jones S. Feldman C. Chadwick J. MichclsonE. Schleuskner
ATHLETICS
Editor_____________J. MichaelsonWoman's Editor__Elizabeth Lilley, J. Bronson G. MyersAssistants j LoyfCS f Halfcrty
PLAID STAFF
News Editor_______J. H. SansonettiH. E. Me Gann on Frank CasselA. N. Evans
REPORTERS
J. HiltrR. Saxton
J. DruryJ. Ritzel
S. DancoffE. McCormick
J. AdamsG. Rose
E. StankeyS. WilliamsI. WilliamsonM. Griffin
A. PIcnziE. Sherman
J. CarrJ. Henderson
J. LivingstonP. Paulus
V. KloosT. Cacchione
V. CooperM. Malakoff
T. ShelleyA. Carnvale
G. BreakstoneB. Morchcad
H. SchwarzC. Mandross
E. GambleB. CimmutoJ. S. MinnotteR. Cohen
L. Conlin• A. Ladd
TYPISTS 
Sylvia Lyons Ann WardenLucille Jacobs Ann KaufmanMarian McNary
“To an impartial recording of all campus news ”
“To inaugurate and uphold Carnegie traditions.yt 
“To support all student activities ”
“To specifically work for a student activities build­
ing, better club rooms, and a combined adver­
tising agency for all school publications.
Welcome to the People of Pittsburgh
Next Friday the campus will again bccome one of the 
lincst show places open to the people of Pittsburgh. The 
entire school unites in presenting to the public a demon­
stration of the work and equipment here at Carnegie. Each 
department enters unreservedly in the program of exhibits. 
The pride taken in displaying- the school to the outside 
world is well founded, and the visitors that overflow the 
campus that, night do tribute to our institution.
We wclcomc the people of Pittsburgh to our annual 
exhibition and hope that they will find here a true concept 
of the school which has rapidly taken a place among the 
leaders in its field.* * * *
Just Another Month
Only a month away, the Spring Carnival is rapidly tak­
ing definite form. This is the third Carnival since the de­
mise of the ancient and honored Campus Week, and rep­
resents an attempt to include the best features of programs 
our alumni have made famous.
This year an attempt is being made to «avoid the usual 
air ,of sophistication which necessarily marks the proms 
and highlights of the social calendar. The Spring Carnival 
is designed to give to every person on the campus,—the 
alumni and faculty included, a care-free respite, and period 
of fun-malcing, just before the final cramming for the ex­
ams. It is not a wild orgy or debauch, but a normal out­
let for I lie extraordinary spirit developed during these fine 
spring days.
The .Friday events on (he program have been newly 
arranged this year. Revival of the all-day costume party 
and introduction of new events calculated to give every 
student the opportunity to play, dance, or sing, typify the 
spirit of the Cahlival. It is the demonstration of this com­
mon bond of friendship and spirit that marks the college 
as apart from any other commercial enterprise.
Make your plans now for the Carnival. Enter the 
events with the enthusiasm "the committee believes you 
will. Help in the work necessary for a successful program, 
and get into the spirit that will make this the finest mem­
ory of your college career.
Where Does the Money Go?
The suggestion was made recently regarding the publi­
cation of dance budgets in the Tartan, so that everyone 
might see 'where his money was being spent. The student 
council of this school has a system for handling the ac­
counts of all dances and organizations under its authority 
that is highly commendable. The traditional sinister shad­
ow of graft has been most effectively removed from our 
. organizations. Accusations will always be made, and dis­
gruntled students will always cry for justice, but the per­
son who invests his money in campus organizations may 
be perfectly sure that the money is being’ honestly and 
capably handled.
The. Tartan feels that publication of the fifty or more 
•budgets which appear before student council during the 
year is impractical and uninteresting. The council makes 
. public these budgets on request, and in addition publishes 
four times a year a complete summary of every expendi­
ture in every account it handles. The campus may have 
its political organizations and cliques, just like the politics 
of our civic bodies. But it certainly does not have, to con­
tend with the fraudulent manipulations' of finances that our 
contemporaries meet.* * * *
The policy of presenting signed, editorials is being dis­
continued by the Tartan this week. The paper has this 
editorial column set apart to reproduce the public utter­
ances which are the views of the campus leaders. There­
fore such 'material should not be represented as the opinions 
of an individual. In placing editorials by other contribu­
tors in this space the editor endorses the statements and 
is in turn responsible for them.
Y. M. C. A. ELECTS
(Continued from Page One)
C. A. which will be held on the 
week-end of May 6, 7, and 8.
The program of activities as ar­
ranged by the Outing Committee 
will be inaugurated with a dinner 
Friday evening, May 6. After din­
ner, there will be an hour of fun 
to be followed by a talk and gen­
eral discussion.
Saturday’s activities will consist 
of group chats, talks, games, and 
Hikes; the evening will be occupicd 
by the installation of the newly 
elected officers. The second hike 
is scheduled for Sunday morning 
which will be followed by a short 
talk. A good- fellowship .dinner on 
Sunday noon will conclude the 
program.
SPECIAL PROGRAMS MARK
(Continued from Page One) 
the sophomores arc "on charcttc;’1 
swimming exhibition by the team, 
and the annual costume exhibition 
by the Department . of Costume 
Economics in Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College.
The exhibition, always popular 
with Pittsburghers in the past, 
has attracted crowds estimated at 
from ten to twenty thousand.
Delta Skull, national men’s junior 
honorary, voted at their last meet­
ing to assume charge of the infor­
mation desks for the night. Nine 
desks will be located throughout 
the different schools with a repre­
sentative bf Delta Skull in charge 
at each.
FROM THE FENCE
So!—A Carnegie girl's handbag was among the lost and found in a downtown speak. Must have made a hasty getaway. . . . The residents of Third Floor Welch find the nurses' home at Marlboro Hall very inviting. . . . Sophomore chemicals have gone to dating high school 
Kiris. . . . Last Thursday a fern left a mysteri­ous bundle at Skibo. It was 
addressed to a lad who was fo claim it. After a severe grilling 
concluded by a third degree, the girl confessed that the package contained some of her unmen­tionables .which were destined to become a Hell Week costume. Oh, these fraternity boys arc aw­
ful hellers I ... y* * * *
Spring, Tra La!—Two weeks ago we were in the midst of winter with snow storms, etc., and now real summer with flowers bloomin’, trees leafing, and what not. And say, have the girls blossomed forth with the com­ing of weather I Each day brings a new fashion parade. As a result of lolling on the campus lawns this last week there arc exactly sixteen "sprig golds.” . . . Fellows have started the sys­tem of reporting at their 2:30 classes and a few minutes later walking out to sec the Pirates play. . . . The coming of intcrmural mushball has sadly disrupted fraternity dinner schedules. . . . Evening walks in the park are again in order . And a swell moon these nice evenings to make things complete. 
. . . Ah I . . .
All Aboard!—
In about ten days the feature event of the season will come off. None other than the Men’s Dormitory Boat Dance, the one and only boat dance this year. (Not run by the Dragons.) You may think you have seen boats and boats but you aim seen nuttin’ if you haven’t seen the Gaw’gc Washington, the King of the River. Plenty of room- to run around in and a gorgeous ball­room, capable of holding 400 couples. All that with'a swell orchestra thrown in for only a frog­skin and a half per two. As an added attraction all the famous and notorious dormitory personages, will be present. All arc invited.* * * *
Smokers—
Last week saw two smokers among the engi­neers. . . . Thursday night Thcta Tau made a big scoop by having sound movies in 209. Will Ufflc- man, vice regent among other things, supplied ad­ditional sound effects. . . . The flavor of the lemon­ade (?) served was augmented by the servers run­ning it over their hands occasionally. . . . Thcta Tau doing a nice piece of work in sponsoring the plaque of each year’s outstanding junior to be hung in Administration Hall (the plaque). . . . The Electricals had themselves a smoker Friday nite and less than half of those present smoked. . . . Silent movies were shown and sound effects furnished by the audience with the aid of razzers that were passed out. . . . Willie Wigton may be a radio announcer when he grows up. ... A select group ate their lunch gathered around a cuspidor. . . . The seniors wondered why Prof. Dennison picked on "the square root of three” for his dis­course. . . .
Whoa!—
It seems that one fine day Doric Collins and Dotty Wolf were out in the sticks exercising as many horses. Between street cars on their way 
back to school they spied a mounted cop. Not having had her quota of punishment for the day Miss Wolf bcsccchcd the cop to allow her to try his noble steed. The limb of the law gallantly con­descended, descended, and helped her aboard. Oncc there she couldn’t do much good. --The nag rc- _ versed all her decisions. Perhaps it could only understand cop language. Finally Dotty gave up in disgust and took a street car. She could tell where it was going.* * * *
Gripe—
It’s guys like Walker & Co., bench sitters, that make it embarrassing for girls to walk past the front of the dorms because of the collcy of caustic remarks, wise cracks and whistles that arc broad­cast across the street. A girl should be able to take a little of that sort of staff but too much rather puts the sponsors near that favorite class of morons. ... In line with the desire to see where the money for school dances go the dormi­tory men would like to see a published account of just where and how their breakage deposits and dormitory fees go. . . . The dorm men also insist that news of their boat ride is, fully, as im­portant front page news as fraternity rushing ideas from other colleges. . . .* * * *
Scraps—
The new paint_ on the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology HUT Library seems to indicate a decent .Library for the campus will be due about 1945 when the Endowment falls due. It’s lucky we had a war training camp at school or we might not have seen a HUT Library. . . . The new sun par­lor in Skibo will eliminate the necessity of eating off the radiator and cash register during the noon rush hours. . ; . Now that they arc combining thehard industries departments with Engineeringdepartments they ought to join the printingcourse with the P. & D. department. . . . Back of the scrccns at the Scabbard & Blade dinner dance at the Schcnlcy last Saturday there was more fun. What, with trick dancing and sliding contests be­tween Morris & the two K’s.—Good thing there were no splinters in the floor.—Dixon doing a vio­lent jig.—Cothran teaching black magicr—The se­date officers will have their fun. . . .* * * *
Comes the Carnival—
With Campus Two-Days-and-a-Quater only three weeks come Thursday next, it behooves us to pick us a queen. In past years politics has assumed most of the responsibility in picking the Queen and her aides.Why not have one by really popular choice?... In previous years one of the biggest rob­
beries ever has been the re­freshment stand 
concessions
where the students have been skinned ten cents per for pop and ice cream cones. The idea of the concessions should be primarily to serve the stu­dents not to enable several fellows to earn a trip to Europe in two days. This jrear’s. committee has promised to' give up the refreshment business in favor of the. competition in Thistle Hall.
RETIRING PROFESSORS FILL NUMEROUS 
RESPONSIBLE POSITIONS DURING LIVES
Carnegie will be without three capable professors when school opens next summer. After many years of service on the faculty Dr. William F. Mott, Director of the College of Engineering; Professor George II. Follows, of the Commercial Engineering Department, and Professor Colette, head of the Language De­partment, have tendered their resignations. As the following brief biographies illustrate, these profess* have lead full interesting lives.
CLUB NOTES
PI TAU SIGMA BANQUET
Pi Tau Sigma, mcchanical engin­
eering honorary, • will hold a ban­
quet on Sunday, May 1, when they 
w’ill elect officers and initiate 
pledges. The place at which the 
banquet will be held has not a3 
yet been decided.
The initiates, who were pledged 
April 20, are: John O. Lorange, 
’33; Robert E. Robinson, '33, Delta 
Upsilon fraternity; and Henry C. 
Wcstin, '33, member of Theta Tau. 
George Thorpe of the Department 
of Aeronautical Engineering, who 
has done work in the design field, 
will be initiated as an honorary 
member.
The Pi Tau Sigma fraternity has 
also organized and carried out the 
contribution of the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering for Ex­
hibition Night.
ETA KAPPA NU CALL
Three juniors in the Electrical 
Engineering Department have re­
cently been called to Eta Kappa
Nu, national electrical engineering 
honorary, at the second-semester 
spring call made at the annual
Electrical Smoker.
The men who were called are:
Robert S. Fish, Jr., D. Gross-
handier, and Curtiss M. Jackson, 
Jr. These men are to enter upon 
their pledge duties immediately in 
order that their initiation may be 
held within the next three weeks.
To be eligible for Eta Kappa Nu 
one must have attained an average 
of over 4.0 for his first five se­
mesters in school. Activities, in­
terest and ability in electrical en­
gineering, general interest in out­
side work are some of the other 
factors taken in consideration in 
calling new members.The Carnegie chapter, on. behalf 
of the department, wishes to thank 
Professor George M. Porter for 
the fine gift to the Electrical Club 
Room. Professor Porter donated 
a neatly framed picture of the 
student members who attended the 
eighth Student Branch Convention 
of the A. I. E. E. held at Haver- 
ford College.
Life Saving Class
Draws Forty-Five
A great deal more interest is be­
ing shown in life saving this year 
than in previous years. Last year 
only one man succeeded in passing 
the test. This year over forty-five 
men have signed up for the course 
and a great many of these candidates 
have the ability to pass and .others 
show promise of .getting in shape 
for the test. Some of these men arc 
already members of the American 
Red Cross Life Saving Service who 
are reviewing the test. If there arc 
any old- members' on the campus 
who have not taken - the test- in the 
past three years they should do so 
as after that time the membership 
is not recognized.
Mr. Moses is giving the instruc­
tion during some of his regular 
gymn periods. Chas. Ackley an ex­
aminer for Red Cross is teaching a 
class at 4:30 on Monday, Wednes­
day, Friday and at 2:30 on Saturday 
afternoon.
The examinations will be conducted 
during the first week in May at the 
above times by Mr. Ackley. A few of 
the more proficient swimmers have 
already started the tests.
Quite a few college men are en­
abled to find Summer work through 
this medium and if any arc trying 
to find work in Summer Camps they 
should arrange to take this course.
DORMS HOLD ANNUAL
(Continued from Page One) 
ballroom features novel lighting 
effects. The third deck is a cov­
ered open-air deck equipped with 
a modern restaurant which will be 
available to guests. The fourth and 
top deck which is known as the 
"starlight” deck, is available to- 
couples who do not desire to dance, 
but wish to enjoy the cruise down 
the river.
Chaperones who have been in­
vited to attend, include: Miss Mary 
Watson Green, Dean and Mrs. A. 
W. Tarbcll, Miss Elizabeth 'Helni, 
Dr. and Mrs. J. H. Neelley, Dr. 
and Mrs. B. Griffiss, and Dr. and 
Mrs. L. D. Shaffer.
ANNOUNCE SPECIAL
William Elton Mott, who is re­
tiring as Director of the College 
of Engineering, was born in Bur­
lington, N. J., January 24, 1868. 
Mr. Molt received his education at 
the University of Pennsylvania and 
at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, securing - his diploma 
from the latter college in 1889. He 
is a member of the Thcta Xi so­
cial fraternity, Sigma Xi, and Tau 
Beta Pi, national engineering fra­
ternity.
For two years Mr. Mott was 
employed with several engineers in 
field and office work. In 1892 lie 
entered the faculty of Cornell JJni- 
vcrsity as an instructor in the 
College of Civil Engineering, serv­
ing later as assistant professor in 
the same department, In 1905 Mr. 
Mott returned to his Alma Mater 
as associate professor of Hydraulic 
Engineering and shortly afterwards 
took cliargc of the Department of 
Civil Engineering. Mr. Mott beL 
cainc Director of the College of 
Engineering at Carnigie in 1917 
and has maintained that position 
to the date of his retirement.
Mr. Mott’s name is listed in 
Who’s Who in America. He is a 
member of the A. S. C. E., En­
gineering Society of Western Penn­
sylvania, and the American For­
estry Association. '
Professor T. P. Colette, present 
head of the Language Department, 
plans to retire at the end' of. this 
school year. Professor Colette was 
born on August 22, 1862, at Lc 
Havre, France, where his father 
was a teacher of languages at the 
licad of a boys’ school. Mr. 
Colette’s boyhood was spent in 
France; as a young man he trav­
eled for several years through 
Italy, Algeria, England and Ger­
many, finally coming to America 
in 1895. He obtained a position 
as a private teacher upon his ar­
rival and in 1897 became an in­
structor at a private school of 
French at Washington, D. C. Leav­
ing this school Mr. Colette became 
professor of Modern Languages at 
Urbana University, in Ohio, and 
later served as professor of French 
at Wittcnburg College, Springfield, 
O.
Professor Colette came to Car­
negie in 1908. He is the author 
of "Thirty Progressive Lessons in 
French” and “Treatise on French 
Composition.” After retiring he 
plans to travel through the United States.
Professor George H. Follows, 
associate professor of the Commer­
cial Enginccrihg Department, will 
retire this year after having served 
as a member of thq faculty at Car­
negie since September 27, 1905.
lie was born in Manchester, 
England, in 1867, and after being 
educated at a private school in 
Eccles and at the Ackworth School, 
Yorkshire, lie was' apprenticed at 
his father’s factory in Manchester, 
serving first as apprentice and 
later as Works Manager. He re­
ceived his diploma in engineering 
from the Manchester Technical 
School. In 1S89 lie came to the 
United States and served as an 
engineering designer in tools, guns, 
and cranes for various engineering firms.
He was made Editor-in-Chicf for 
the International Correspondence 
Schools, Scranton, Pa., and lias 
also been editor of the Mechanic 
Arts Magazine and several other publications.
In 1905 Professor Follows camc 
to Carnegie. He is among those 
who originated the commercial en­
gineering course at Carnegie and 
it was lie who suggested the for­
mation of the "visiting faculty” in that course.
SCARAB CONTEST
Frederick S. Cracker, Archtecture 
’36, submitted the best “D” class 
• design in a contest sponsored this 
month by Scarab, national hon­
orary architectural fraternity. The 
prize, a book, on architecture by 
John Harbison, prominent archi­
tect, was offered by Scarab to the 
freshman who submitted the best 
design. The problem in the con­
test was for an outdoor fountain 
to be erected in a natural bank 
of rock.The award will be made tomor­
row at a special meeting of ‘Scarab. 
Mr. Cracker is a member of Beta 
Thcta Pi, social fraternity.
On Thursday, April 28, Scarab 
will hold a lunchcon meeting in 
the Grill of Carnegie Inn. Some 
of the best known architects of 
Pittsburgh have been invited to 
attend the luncheon.
Scarab wi.ll give a party at the 
William Penn Hotel in Pirate Hall 
on Monday, May 2. Plans for the 
future also include the initiation 
dance which is to be a summer 
formal. The dance will be held 
at the Pittsburgh Field Club on 
Wednesday, May 25. A sketch 
trip is being planned as an addi­
tional event for the near future.
(Continued from Page One) 
of three hours each according to 
the following schedule: Tuesday,
May 3, from 9-12, English and 
General Intelligence; Wednesday, 
May 4, from 9-2, General Science 
and , Mathematics; and Thursday, 
May 5, from 9-12, General Culture. 
All examinations, will be held in 
the Faculty club room and the 
Union.Two years ago, while sopho­
mores, and four years ago, while 
in high school, the present seniors 
were tested. The purpose of the 
present tests is to provide a basis 
for a survey of the progress made 
since that time.
Scooter, Roller Skates at Spring Carnival
(Continued from Page One) 
Machinery hall, as was previously an­
nounced, the committee has decided 
to crown the fortunate young lady 
who will preside over the remainder 
the festival in the gymnasium. 
This was done to decrease expenses 
and to insure a successful coronation 
in the event of inclement weather.
The Coronation Ball will be the 
Carnegie student’s first opportunity to 
don his Spring formal attire. Al­
though the dance will not be sched­
uled as a formal one the formal 
attire will be in order. \T\vo orches­
tras, one in the Gymnasium and 
one in Thistle Hall, will provide 
the music for all danccs during the 
carnival.
On Friday night the Costume Ball, 
formerly known as the Highland 
Fling, will dominate all other activi­
ties between the hours of 9 and 1. 
Those attending arc requested to wear 
some sort of a costume in order that 
they might get into the "swing of 
things.” The fact that costumcs arc 
required at the "Heyday” events will 
enable the students to remain in the 
"proper spirit” throughout the entire 
day.
T h e Interfraternity Sweepstakes
Saturday mornings of the festival, 
beginning at 11 o’clock. This is later 
in the day than it has been in former 
years, but the committee believes that 
this will give more of the student 
body a chance to witness the Spring 
Carnival classic.
An attempt to have an impressive 
closing for the three days’ fun will 
be made this year, and without a 
doubt it will be impressive if the 
students and the faculty will place 
themselves in the spirit of the event. 
The exerciscs will be held out-of- 
doors in the Sylvan Theater at 11 
o’clock Saturday, May 21. With the 
glow of an open forge for the only 
light and background such traditions 
as “Tlie Welding of the Link,” the 
welcoming of the Freshman into the 
Clan, and the Senior Farewell will 
be revived in order to close the 
festival with a solemnity which will 
restore the revelers to their natural 
seriousness.
The comrffittee appeals to the stu­
dent body for its co-operation, with­
out which this attempt to put on a 
real Spring Carnival will fail.
Whether a snorer makes more 
noise on the intake or on the ex­
haust is a problem which has di-¦reliminaries and finals are scheduled jvidcd the faculty at the UNIVER- 
o be run off on the Friday and |$ITY OF CHICAGO.
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY has 
one hundred and forty-eight Smiths, 
ninety-one Millers, and sixty-eight 
Cohens, besides a multitude of va­
riations of that Semefic appendage. 
There are only forty-nine Jones.
Billiard teams from Wisconsin, 
Michigan, Kansas, Illinois and 
Purdue engaged in a telegraphic 
tourney sponsored by the Amateur 
Billiard Association of America.
One freshmen at the DETROIT 
COLLEGE OF LAW will escape 
hazing this spring. He is 75 years 
old.
At HASTINGS UNIVERSITY 
a professor of mathematics failed 
to appear within ten minutes after 
the beginning of the period, so the 
class dismissed itself. The follow­
ing day it was severely reprimand­
ed. The professor pointed out, 
"You could see that I was here. 
My hat was on the desk.
The next day when the professor 
entered the room, not a student 
was present, but on each desk 
there was a hat.
A SURE FOUNDATION (
One of the safest foundations j 
on which to build your finan- j 
cial independence is a savings jj 
account. Systematic saving, j 
begun while you are in col- j 
lege, will pave the way for a j 
successful future. Our Sav- | 
ings Accounts pay liberal in- | 
lerest compounded semi-an- j 
nually.
!Mellon National Bank j
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Always OpenTables For Ladies5C CABIN GRILL 5
TAKE SOME ALONG 
__ sANnwirHFs __
HAMBURGER, CHEESE, FRIED HAM, 
__________LIVERWURST__________
DELICIOUS HOME MADE PIES 
Pure Orange Juice Pilsner on Draught
____________ Root Beer on Draught______________
Pastries Cookies
Hot Chocolate Coffee With Pure Cream
______________AND OTHER ITEMS______________
(2) Convenient Stores (2)
974 LibertyAve. 3712 Forbes St.
(DOWNTOWN) (OAKLAND)
ii^E V E R YT H I N
M. M. C. C.
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
President
Marion McNary 
Gloria Kloos
Vice President 
Elizabeth Preller 
Esther Freni 
Mary Jane Gray
Secretary-Treasurer 
Jean Ritzel 
Leah Voegtfy
Y. W. C. A. 
President 
Mary Townsend 
Alice Work
Treasurer 
Alberta Jackson 
Winifred McClean 
Secretary 
Margaret Griffin 
Vivian Johnson 
Thelma Shelley 
SENATE 
Vice President 
Marjorie Dougherty 
Dorothy Schultz 
Secretary 
Alice Henzi 
Martha Robinson 
The elections will be held 
in M. M. C. C. on May 5. 
The treasurer of the Senate 
•will be the treasurer of the 
Junior Class.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
(Continued from Page One) 
change breeds both types o'f animals. 
As long as we allow and promote 
gambling as the chief method of gui­
dance of our national conoinic affairs, 
we may well expect sky-rocketing, 
hell-diving, and commercial fluctua­
tions which will make our nauseas 
more chronic and eventually, deadly.
Will Rogers claims (and he reads 
the papers) that when you place a • 
bet on' the horses, at least you sec 
them run! When you buy (or, “in­
vest”) in stocks, 3rou experience all 
sorts of dilations of the heart in 
watching the quotations "on the 
board.” Many an otherwise estimable-' 
person has become a grasping, ner­
vous wreck as soon as he has "taken 
a flyer” in the market.
And so we "design and order” our 
economic affairs, in vast gambling 
bazaars, where the bulls and the bears 
contend, and the shorts run to cover! 
Persons even with low "I. Q’s” are 
beginning to wonder whether there 
may not be a more rational, prag­
matic (and humane) method of run­
ning our affairs.
The Fuller Brush Company has a limited number of openings in excellent territories, for college men this summer. The college agent will gladly give you fur­ther information. /
W. S. BUTLER
932 MIRROR STREET 
HAzel 410S-W
Keep a Regular
TELEPHONE
Date with Home
llSScsr you “dropped in” on j 
| Mother and Dad tonight ... I 
just walked right in with a 
hearty “Hello, folks!” Wouldn’t they be sur­
prised and thrilled? Wouldn’t it be fun?
Then get to a telephone this evening and give 
your home number to the Operator. (It will 
be “Hello, folks,” in a few seconds.) Tell them 
the latest campus news ... find out what the 
family is doing. Next to being there in person, 
a “voice visit” with home is best.
Try it once__if you’ve never tried it before.
You’ll soon have the habit of calling home 
each week for a regular Telephone Date.
FOR THE LOWEST COST 
AND GREATEST EASE
Set your “dare" for after 8.30 P. M., and take ad­
vantage of the low Night Rates. (A dollar call is 
60c at night; a 50c call is 35c.)
By making a date the folks will be at home. Thus 
you can make a Station to Station call rather than 
a more expensive Person to Person call.
Just give the operator your home telephone nura* 
ber. If you like, charges can be reversed.
