^ CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55— NUMBER 23 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 1963
, — Photo by Aron Collons
Eileen prepares to lead grand march upon receiving 
title of military ball queen,
ROTC Crowns Eileen Mauclair 
Honorary Colonel At Mil Ball
Last Saturday night hundreds 
of cadents from Tech’s R.O.T.C.
^ regiment flocked to the Skibo 
Ballroom with their dates to wit­
ness the crowning of the 
ment’s 1963 queen and her court.
Festivties began at 9 p.m. with 
the Bobby Vinton orchestra play­
ing a rich assortment of oldies 
and newies, while Harold Bet­
ters, in the Hilander Room, ripped 
off some of the hottest jazz in the 
£ city. About 11 o’clock, the ten­
sion mounted as Scabbard and 
Blade prepared a tunnel of 
crossed sabres in the center of 
the ballroom for the four finalists 
as they were escorted to the stage.
Among those introduced were 
Patricia Murray, the regiments 
1962 queen; Bill Lorenzo, the cap­
tain of Scabbard and Blade; the 
finalists; and the professor of Mil­
itary Science at Tech, Colonel 
Edward J. Gallagher. Colonel 
Gallagher was the man to open 
the secret envelope containing 
the result of the cadent’s vote 
of the previous Thrusday.
In the stillness of a jamed Ski­
bo Ballroom, the names were 
read off: 2nd Battalion Comman­
der, Miss Carole Smith; 1st Bat- 
tallion Commander, Miss Jeanne 
Kean; Honorary Colonel com­
manding the Carnegie Tech 
R.O.T.C. cadet regiment and its 
queen for 1963, Miss Eileen Mau­
clair.
The presentation of roses to 
the finalists and the crowning of 
the queen was followed by a 
grand march around the ballroom 
lead by the new honorary officers.
Greek Guests 
Produce Tech’s 
44The Bacchae”
After eight weeks of strict re­
hearsal with Tech drama stu­
dents, Minos Volanakis and Zou 
Zou Nicoloudi have seen the fi­
nal product of their work. Euri­
pides’ The Bacchae, a play which 
the Greeks witnessed in ancient 
times, has been reproduced here 
with a new translation and direc­
tion by Mr. Volanakis and chore­
ography by Mrs. Nicoloudi.
Volanakis, who has worked 
principally in Athens and Lon­
don, has spent the last fifteen 
years as a writer, actor, transla­
tor, and director. He staged the 
Old Vic’s Julius Caesar and di­
rected the Balcony in Athens, as 
well as having revived famous 
Greek plays such as The Oresteia 
and The Bacchae. “There is no 
such thing as a classic play,” he 
says. “Some of the strongest plays 
of life today were written 2500 
years ago.”
Mrs. Nicoloudi, who will tour 
Europe this summer with her 
production of Aristophenes’ The 
Birds, won first prize at the Paris 
International Theatre Festival in 
1962. She has often been guest 
choreographer for the National 
Theatre of Greece and with The 
Bacchae is now visiting the 
United States for the first time.
Drawn to dancing by a love 
of music, she now composes 
scores for the dance. She has 
danced in London, Berlin, Co­
penhagen, Paris, and Brussels;
tcontinued on page 2)
Monday CFP Elections 
Cite VandeLinde Pres.
This Monday evening the current C.F.P. met to select a 
leader for the coming year. Dave VandeLinde of Sigma Nu, 
Gail Morgan of A.T.O., Bob Hawkins of TX, Harry Galliot of 
PKT, and Marty Skowron of TDP have all been looking 
hopefully at the coveted office.
The Fraternity system at Tech< 
is at a time of decision. The fra­
ternities must either join to­
gether and grow through unity or 
split up and grow or fall, each 
according to his own strength.
With elections come new men and 
new ideas.
Dave Vandelinde, a Junior Elec­
trical engineer, is the new C.F.P. 
president for the coming year.
He was secretary for C.F.P. last 
year and was acting executive 
vice president at the beginning of 
this year. In addition to his ac­
tivities in Sigma Nu and intra­
mural sports, Dave is active in 
E K N honorary. He was adver­
tising manager of the Carnegie 
Technical, a member of the Stu­
dent Congress, and a member of 
the Varsity Track Team last year.
Dave is very interested in C.F.P. 
activities and wants to build a 
stronger organization. He is con­
cerned with keeping the fraternity 
system in tune with the changing 
Tech student, and in building a 
stronger fraternity system.
Jack Turk, the new Adminis­
trative Vice President, is also the 
president of Beta Sigma Rho.
He is a Junior EE, a member of 
the American Institute of Elec­
trical Engineers, in Scotch and
Who will be Miss Stars and Stripes?
S ’n S Rehearses Satirical Revue 
On American Beauty Queen
Who will be crowned Miss Stars and Stripes? Haven’t 
you always wanted to see what goes on behind the scenes at 
a nation-wide beauty contest? Well, now is your chance.
Scotch ’n Soda is presenting a satire on the glamour, the 
intrigue, the heartbreak and excitement of one of America’s 
most famous and best-loved institutions.
Who is involved with this mad-4---------------------------------------------------------
ness? Of equal importance to the 
contestants are those who run the 
show. There’s the General Man­
ager, played by Neal Huguley; 
there’s the mad-cap chaperone for 
the girls, Regina Ress, and her 
loveable, naive assistant, Sue 
Godin; and a Press Agent, Ken 
Matejka, who is romantically in­
volved with one of the contestants.
Bringing glamour and public in­
terest to the contest are the lech­
erous and nationally known MC, 
Dick Desberg, and his cohort, the
glamorous movie actress, played 
by Josepha Gayer.
Bringing comedy and romance 
to the confusion are a former con­
testant, Carole Haber, and a 
judge’s son, Bill Burdett.
Then there are the contestants 
themselves: a Southern Belle,
Peggy Riva; the all-American 
girl, Kathy Matter; the sophisti­
cated sociality, Linda Friedman; 
the cosmopolitan beauty, Ad’na 
(continued on page 9)
Dave VandeLinde
Soda, a member of Student Con­
gress, on the Rules Committee, 
Entertainment Chairman of the 
Spring Carnival Committee, and 
a member of the Lutheran Stu- 
(continued on page 3)
Sororities Base Carnival Skits 
On Famous Movie Themes
The annual Queen Presentation sorority skits will be 
presented April 23 at 11:30 a.m. in the Skibo Ballroom.
In keeping with the Carnival theme, “Phenomenal Phyli- 
ques,” the sororities will give their interpretation of recent 
movies. The skits, in order of appearance, will be: “Damn
Yankees,” Delta Gamma; “Guys and Dolls,” Delta Delta
Delta;« “Call Me Madam,” KappaO------------------------------------------------------—
Kappa Gamma; “Can Can,” Kap­
pa Alpha Theta; “Pajama Game,”
Sigma Kappa; “Annie Get Your 
Gun,” Chi Omega; and “Li’l 
Abner,” Alpha Epsilon Phi.
The high point of each skit will 
be the presentation of the soror­
ity’s candidate for Spring Carnival 
Queen. The candidates are: Diana 
Dayton, Kappa Kappa Gamma;
Carole Dennison, Chi Omega;
June Helmers, Delta Delta Delta;
Tita Hirschner, Kappa Alpha The­
ta; Rita Hickman, Delta Gamma;
Dinah Mathias, Sigma Kappa; and 
Pat Murray, Alpha Epsilon Phi.
“Bacchae” Tickets
Because of the unusual ticket 
demand for the production of The 
Bacchae, the Department of Drama 
has added a special performance: 
Sunday, April 21.
This performance is being given 
for those faculty and administra­
tive staff members, patrons, and 
students who have been unable to 
obtain tickets for regularly sched­
uled performances. Seating will be 
strictly limited to the capacity of 
the theater.
Curtain time: 8:15
Pgh. Leader 
Talks Politics
At 8:00 p.m. on Thursday, April 
18, in the Wherrett Lounge in 
Skibo, Controller of Allegheny 
County James W. Knox will pre­
sent a lecture entitled “Without 
Politics—No Good is Possible." 
Mr. Knox will discuss the rela­
tionship of political events and 
the impact of legislation on the 
engineering profession.
Mr. Knox, who is a Guest Lec­
turer for the Graduate School of 
Public and International Affairs 
at Pitt, has been acknowledged 
by the Pittsburgh Chamber of 
Commerce and Time magazine as 
one of Pittsburgh’s Leaders of 
Tomorrow. He has been County 
Controller since 1947, and has 
displayed an intense interest in 
civic affairs. In his lecture he 
will emphasize the importance of 
the part that engineers must ul­
timately play in political affair« 
in order to enhance the profes­
sion.
The meeting is open to all stu­
dents and faculty members ot 
Tech.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, Aprii 10, 196S
OAKLAND
Frosh Camp
Announces
Counselors
Guest Director, Choreographer 
Bring Greek Classic To TechBULLETIN BOARD
Nate Leblang, chairman of the 
Freshmen Camp, announced the 
following camp counselors for 
1963.
Phyllis Cohen, Cynthia Fox, 
Marney Gilboy, Kris Kelman, 
Peggy Riva, Amy Slotnik, Andi 
Vidakovic, Sharon Shuttleworth, 
Elaine Nedlick, Sue Witt, Sandy 
Stone, Arlene Kadish, Patricia 
Tuccio, Robert Caulk, Sam Cupps, 
Butch Davis, Dave Easley, Tom 
Glassberg, Neal Tuguley, Larry 
Land, Tony Williams, Jim Kamm, 
Jay Earley, Chris Macosko, John 
Kurtz, Bill Von Twistern, Ed 
Peay, Boyd Williams, Stu Wood, 
Duncan Mitchell, Ian Raffel, Tod 
Johnson, Eric Erenrich, and Rob­
ert Daley.
Candidates for a position as 
counselor were selected on a ba­
sis of scholarship, participation in 
activties, and fraternity affilia­
tion.
Activity Keys
Activities Key forms are now 
available in Dr. Strict’s office, 
Skibo 103. These forms must be 
returned by Friday, April 26, 1963.
Stars of new
Guild Theatre
attraction
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AYEMinos Yolanakis Zou Zou Nicoloudi
(continued from page 1) of a musician than a dancer,” she
but in the past few years she says. “I love music. I try to vis-
has devoted more of her time to ualize it. I dance music, if you
choreography. “I am really more can understand.”
CARRNE GI S TUOFNHL TYOEF MGHAROVAGR!w
“BEST DIRECTOR” AND “BEST SCREENPLAY”Tech Co-ed is 
Glamour Finalist
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust BIdg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
Beth Parkinson, Tech’s candi­
date for Glamour’s Best Dressed 
Girl Contest, has been selected 
as one of thirty semi-finalists 
from across the nation. The fi­
nalists will be announced within 
the next three weeks, and if 
Beth is selected she will be asked 
to pose for on-location photo­
graphs during April, May, and 
June. Should she win the con­
test, college permitting, Beth will 
spend the first two weeks of June 
at the Glamour offices in New 
York, attending luncheons and 
parties with the fashion leaders 
of the nation. The Tartan con­
gratulates Beth on her selection 
as a semi-finalist, and wishes her 
good luck in the finals.
Hardy Kruger as Pierre and 
Patrica Gozzi as Françoise (Cy- 
bele) in a scene from the newest 
hit at the GUILD, Pgh’s FINE 
ARTS theatre, now in its secoi?|} 
sensational week.AN UNUSUAL 
LOVE. STORY!
SQ HILLFifth Magnificent Week
New Policy — Daily Matinees 
For This Engagement
HAL ZEIGER
presents
THE MOST CREATIVE 
MUSICAL GIANT OF 
THIS GENERATION!
“Poignant and Poetic . . . 
Cybeie,’ a gem of screen art.
-Monohan, Press
'Sundays and Cybeie’ is a masterpiece 
. a thing of photographic beauty.”
—Fanning, Post-GazetteORCHESTRA ,,
CARNREG ISTWJGWOfitO 
ith axM§xM§“Your movie going memory will 
be the loser if you pass ‘Sundays 
and Cybeie’ by.” —Krug, WIIC
PLAYING HIS HIT HiCOKOS '
^ ^ 'PvUtK Î I
c 'GEORGIA' • ‘WHAT'B I SAY' • *R1»Y' \
“I CAN’T STOP LOVING YOU” 
“BORN TO LOSE”
Musical Arrangements by QUINCY JONES and RALPH BORNS 
'L Entire Production Supervised by JEFF 0. BROWN , 7
MU. 3-6992
NOW SHOWING 
Tony Curtis inherits
"40 Pounds of Trouble"
co-starring Suzanne Pleshette 
Eastman color Plus
Sean Martin - Lana Turner in
"Who's Got the Action"
in Technicolor
Starting Wed. 17 — 7 days only
Wed., Thurs., Matinee only 
Regular engagement starting 
Fri. - Sat. - Sun. - Mon. - Tues. 
Robert Ryan - Peter Ustinov 
introducing Terrence Stamp as
"Billy Budd"
and Gordon Scott in
'Samson and the 7 Miracles'
in color
WTTSBUR«H$ TMWnçt
Murray & Beacon JA. 1-0700
\ FEATURE TIMES DAILY: 6:10 - 8:10 - 10:10
Sat. and Sun. 2:10 - 4:10 - 6:10 - 8:10 - 10:10
We urge you to see “Sundays’s and Cybeie” from the beginning
All seats reserved — Tickets $2.50, $3.00, $4.00, $5.00 
Tickets on sale at all National Record Mart Stores and Horne’s.COMING SOON 
SPLENDER IN GLASS'
Eliminate checking account service
At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. 
Just keep a $200 balance. There’s no service charge. No maintenance 
charge. No charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your 
biHs the easy way. Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free personal checking account. Come in today.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENU£ AT WOOD STREET 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
M£MBEK: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEOERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 1«. 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page *
Tech’s Playboy Printers
I have asked the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes whether I 
might employ this column—normally a vehicle for innocent 
merriment—to pursue this serious end. “Of course you may, 
crazy kid," they replied kindlily, their grey eyes crinkling at 
the corners, their manly mouths twisted in funny little grins. 
If you are a Marlboro smoker—and what intelligent human 
person is not?—you would expect the makers of Marlboro to 
be fiue men. And so they are—wonderful guys, every man-jaek 
of them—good, generous, understanding, wise. They are each 
tipped with a pure white filter and come in soft pack or Flip- 
Top box.
But I digress._ We were going to take up a topic you ar» 
probably unable to cover in your busy academic life. Ijet us 
start with the most basic topic of all—anthropology, the study 
of man himself.
Man is usually defined as a tool-making animal, but I per­
sonally do not find this definition entirely satisfactory. Man is 
not the only species which makes tools. The simians, for ex­
ample, make monkey wrenches.
Still, when you come to a really complicated tool—like a 
linotype, for instance—you can be fairly sure it was made by 
Homo sapiens—or else a very intelligent tiger. The question one 
should ask, therefore, is not whd made the tool, but what did 
he do with it.
For example, in a recent excavation in the Olduvai Gorge a 
large assortment of hominoid fossils was found, all datiug back 
to the Middle Pleistocene Age. Buried with the fossils was a 
number of their artifacts, the most interesting being a black 
metal box which emitted a steady beeping sound. Now, of 
course, zoologists will tell you that tree frogs make such boxes 
which they employ in their mating activities (I can't go into 
detail about it in this family newspaper) but the eminent an­
thropological team, Mr. and Mrs. Walther Sigafoos (both lie 
and she are named Walther) were convinced that this particular 
box was made not by tree frogs but by Neanderthal men. To 
prove their point, they switched on the box and out eama 
television, which, as everyone knows, was the forerunner of fire.
If there is anything more you need to know about anthro­
pology, just climb up on my lap as soon as mv son leaves.
© 1^63 Mss Shulmtta* * *
The makers of Marlboro Cigarettes who sponsor this column, oftea 
with trepidation, are not anthropologists. They are tobacconists — 
good ones, 1 think—and I think you'll think so too when you sampie 
their wares—available wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states.
Shown left to rieht »re: Val Brander; Walter Scott; Jon Parker; Clint Anglin: Chuck Schatvet.
— Photo t>y Aron Collons
First for the dry lecture . . .
FILLING A WELL-NEEDED GAP
Although my son is a college freshman, T am glad to say that 
he is still not too old to climb up on my lap and have a heart- 
to-heart talk when things are troubling him. My boy is enrolled 
at Harvard where he is studying to be a fireman. From the 
time he was a little tiny baby he always said he wanted to be 
a fireman. Of course, my wife and I believed that he would 
eventually grow out of it, but no sir, the little chap never 
wavered in his ambition for one minute!
So here he is at Harvard today taking courses in net holding, 
mouth-to-mouth breathing, carbon tetrachloride, and Dalma­
tian dogs. It is a full schedule for the young man. and that, in 
fact, is exactly what we talked about when last he climbed 
upon my lap.
He complained that every bit of his time is taken up with his 
major requirements. He doesn’t have so much as one hour a 
week to sample any of the fascinating courses outside his major 
—history, literature, language, science, or any of the thousand 
and one things that appeal to his keen young mind.
I am sure that many of you find yourselves in the same 
scholastic bind; you are taking so many requirements that you 
can’t find time for some appealing electives. Therefore, in to­
day’s column I will forego levity and give you a brief survey ia 
a subject that is probably not included in your curriculum.
On Campos
withMax§huJman
{Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf," “The Many Loves of Dobit Gillis,” etc.)
Shown left to right are: Ken Simonetta; Barry Shane; Ben Ca plan; Jon Parker; Bujiny Andrea: Cliff MtCue.
•— Photo by Bunny
And then for the entertainment . . .
By BEN CAPLAN ?----------------------------------------------------
Amongst the masses of Engineering and Science students Turk Assumes 
at Tech, there exists a spirited group of men known as j 
“Printers.” Not all students on campus are aware of these j 
fine men. But within the next two months this distinguished 
collection of personalities will disappear from the halls of 
AH, never to return. This will definitely be the school’s loss.
Nevertheless, so as not to go^ '
out like lambs, the entire PM extravagant dinner befitting the
Veep Position
(continued from page 1)
dent Association. The Adminis­
trative vice president is in charge 
of social functions, such as Greek 
Sing and Swing and the C.F.P. 
formal.
Elections have swept the cam­
pus with a storm of speeches and 
a flood of new ideas. C.F.P., along
Department was invited to spend last class of printers.
April 1 and 2 in Chicago as guests I Needless to say, during the eve-
of the Miehle-Gross-Dexter Com-! n¡nS a,'<* m°™ing hours,j the group took advantage of the 
Pany' ! free time to explore the high-
The entire trip, which was paid spots and hot-spots of the city, 
for by the Miehle Company, in- Of course, cold showers and as-
cluded a complete tour of the Pr*n were the order of the day.^ ; Chicago will never be the same, with many other organizations,
Miehle and Gross Plants where an(J neither wiu the printers. A ¡ have been thru their trials of 
the smallest as well as the largest vo^e thanks to the PM’s for! finding new men who hopefully 
printing machines are manufact-. carrying their names and the will lead the fraternities into a 
ured. Rand McNally Publishing name of CIT to the “windy city.” : closer and stronger organization. 
Company also extends an invita- The printers are going out as li- The fraternity system must be 
tion. and the group visited their ions, thanks to the Miehle-Goss- j strong if fraternities expect to 
entire facilities. j Dexter Company.     __________I last on Tech’s campus.__________
In order to make the tours 
worthwhile, the Miehle Company ' 
provided extremely competent ¡ 
guides to answer and discuss j 
technical and managerial ques-1 
tions concerning any phase of j 
their operation. One might say’ 
the value of visiting a printing 
machine manufacturer lies in the 
fact that a broad view of the 
printing industry can be obtained.
The highlight of the trip came 
Monday nite at the Mid-Atlantic 
Club which is located atop the 
Prudential Life Insurance Build­
ing. A cocktail hour preceded an
SHOESSHOES
WALLYS
M£BEK: — F£DRALS
Women Men
SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
Awaiting L UOFH Anni vat
Clean, comfortable and reasonable accommodations 
for male students, clubs, teams, administrators and 
groups in the heart of midlown iNew York, clo.->e to 
all transportation and nearby Empire State Build- 
1= ing. AH conveniences, cafeteria, coffee shop, tailor,
laundry, barber shop, TV room, tours, etc. Booklet C. 
Rates: Single Rooms $2.75-$2.90; Double Rooms $4.40-^4.50
CxuuxTJ aumTMh tmnah .KJKDKTK
| 356 West 34th St., Mew York, N. Y. Oxford 5-5133 (wr. Penn SU )

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 10, 1963
Editorial
A New Fraternity
Pi Delta Epsilon is changing from a jour­
nalism honorary whose meetings resembled 
a Morewood Gardens hen' club to an organ­
ization that supervises all student publica­
tions. Through the work of its president, A1 
Kullen, Pi D. E. redrafted and submitted its 
new constitution to Student Congress. Ap­
proval was granted after a heated debate. 
The new constitution calls for a Quality 
Controls Board and a Financial Board for the 
publications.
The Controls Board is composed of six or 
seven members of the faculty and adminis­
tration and the major editor of each publi­
cation; the Financial Board consists of two 
members of the faculty, the treasurers of 
Pi D. E. and Student Congress, and the presi­
dent of Pi D. E. as chairman. The main pur­
pose of the boards will be to advise the pub­
lications and provide them with a more effi­
cient operation. They will relieve Student 
Congress of the task of preparing the budgets 
for the individual publications. Approval by 
our student government will still be neces­
sary, however, before any funds are appro­
priated.
It is argued that the boards will give the 
faculty a hand in approving all editors, bus­
iness managers, and WRCT’s station man­
ager. (A two-thirds vote of all members of 
the Controls board will be required for ap­
proval.) However, the advantages of these 
boards far outweigh the objections raised to 
their formation. The finances will be hand­
led through those people familiar with the 
individual problems of a publication, and 
not by an organization too large to handle 
the specific items in an activity’s budget. The 
Controls Board can be of great help to those 
publications now suffering from low mem­
bership. It has the power to recommend the 
switching of staff members among these act­
ivities. At any rate, it is doubtful that the 
faculty could control a publication with the 
students unaware. Besides, their advice will 
be an invaluable aid to the Thistle, the Tech­
nical, Patterns, WRCT, and the Tartan.
Congratulations to A1 Kullen and Pi D. E. 
for finally assuming its role to further the 
publications on the Tech campus.
Great Scot! ... Not Again?
The revival of the Natrat has raised the 
question of returning a collegiate humor 
magazine to this campus. The Great Scot, 
our previous lampoon, folded in 1961. Cer­
tainly, our student government would 
finance a magazine, if it knew that Tech stu-
An Unfair Practice
The Hunt Library is spending over $175,- 
000 to provide new facilities for the use of 
bound periodicals this fall. Yet they continue 
to let graduate students, with permission, 
check out current journals and bound 
periodicals for weeks at a time. It is frustrat­
ing to want to use a reserve book in the 
library and find out that the volume is sit­
ting in a graduate student’s dormitory. The 
library will not at a studen’ts request keep a 
reserve book for use only within the build­
ing. They can give the name of the fellow
Readers Write
who checked the book out, but many times 
this information is of little help. It is true 
that graduate students have great need for 
these books in their research, but why should 
the undergraduate be forced to use the Car­
negie Library for journals that have been 
checked out? Perhaps, the library staff will 
limit graduate students to overnight and 
weekend use of bound periodicals. The 
practice of circulating “reserve” books im­
plies that Tech undergraduates do not 
thoroughly use the Hunt Library’s facilities.
M. L. S.
Readers Criticize Modern Art
P&D Questions 
Art Education
Editor, The Tartan:
The fact that a certain in­
structor is leaving the P. & D. 
Department, seems in the eyes 
of the administration, to be of 
little importance. The event it­
self brings to the surface certain 
significant aspects of a basic ed­
ucation, and in effect I am ask­
ing for a better education.
It is time for the administra­
tion to realize that there is a 
group of students who, real­
izing the importance of the last 
2500 years of art, see the rela­
tive unimportance of the last 50 
years of so called “Modern Art.” 
It is obvious to any whole­
some-minded student that the 
last, let us say, Golden Age of 
art was the Renaissance. It fol­
lows then that if the present 
generation of artists intends to 
raise art out of the prevailing 
miasma to a new, higher level, 
it must first be able to compete 
with and then surpass this Ren­
aissance ideal. It is my opinion 
(as well as others) that the pres­
ent system of education doesn't 
allow this, and that the instruc­
tor’s leaving lessens the chance 
by a great degree. Without going 
into detail, the fact remains that 
the Renaissance student by the 
age of 22 has had at least 10 
years experience under the guid­
ance of a competent master- We, 
at the same age, have only four 
years of varied opinions and ex­
perience.
Also, there is a danger in the 
current emphasis on self-expres­
sion. The student becomes so self 
conscious of expressing himself, 
he might forget the real reason 
for being here in a technical 
school. Any student who spends 
nearly $10,000 of his parents’ 
money to express himself should 
realize it's much cheaper to 
simply go in a corner and 
scream.
As a student of painting, I 
feel it is no longer useful or 
fruitful to compete with the con­
temporary fashions of art — we 
must have the courage to com­
pete with all the sound art of all 
ages. And courage it takes be­
cause it is easy to evaluate your 
work with other students on 
other contemporary artists, 
But think of setting it against a 
creation fresco, Greek statue, or 
Renaissance canvas. We must 
begin to think this way for any­
one can see the results of smaller 
ideas in any exhibition of con­
temporary art. Anyone who 
opens his eyes can see the seri­
ous state of present day culture
— if it is to be changed it must 
start at the beginning with the 
training an deducation of the 
young potential artists. I feell we 
are not adequately trained — 
what can be done about it?
Name Withheld.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Silence In America
dents took an interest in promoting a sense 
of humor. Perhaps the question of publishing 
one or two issues a year will be a new prob­
lem facing Pi D. E.’s Quality Controls Board 
in the future.
Smith Finds Fault 
With Modern Art
Editor, The Tartan:
Last week I wrote a letter to 
the Tartan in which I suggested 
that the twentieth century has 
been a period of artists deca­
dence. When the letter was 
printed, the wording had been 
changed to mean the opposite. 
Decandence is what I meant. 
The art of painting is decadent 
when it can do nothing but 
arouse shock, confusion,-or dis­
gust and can only be distorted, 
wierd, cruel, or laughable.
I don’t doubt the honesty of 
twentieth - century artists. No 
doubt they had good reasons for 
genuine despair over art and 
life and to paint this despair, 
whether in the form of an angry 
shout or an histerical laugh. 
Perhaps they did only what 
they could do. But this is c«ily 
saying that they had no remedy 
for the disease they were suf­
fering from.
It has been said that modern 
art has given us a fresh look. 
But it has the freshness of 
something — freshly slaughtered 
and cut up. It is said that mod­
ern art is an expression of our 
troubled times. While the artist 
Vermeer lived, one - third of 
Europe was killed off by war 
and disease. Yet his art is sever- 
(continued on page 5)
Freedom of speech is supposedly part of every U.S. citi­
zen’s heritage, and it is commonly thought that in fact our 
country allows complete freedom to the individual to say 
what he pleases. This is not so—and the trend seems to be 
toward more restrictions. This can best be shown by giving 
some examples:
- There have been long-standing laws against the importa­
tion of so-called pornographic literature. This is done to pro­
tect the individual’s morals, but leaves unanswered the ques­
tion of whether people want their morals protected. It would 
seem that the majority is imposing its moral standards on a 
minority which is doing no harm except looking at “dirty” 
pictures. However this is not the only effect. Someone must 
decide what is, in fact, pornographic. These individuals have 
the power to withhold literature from the public on the 
ground that it is “indecent.” And this gives someone the 
power to censor — Is Tropic of Cancer pornographic? A line 
must be drawn if some materials are to be considered unfit 
to be read—and drawing this line will involve some arbi­
trary judgment.
Communists have been harassed in presenting their 
views. They have been ^forbidden to speak in public areas, 
use the mails freely, etc. Communist ideas may be repulsive 
to most people, but this is no excuse for not allowing them 
(Communists) to express their vows. If one group is restrict­
ed then there is no reason why more may not be — for the 
“national good.”
Still another spreading menace to free expression is the 
discriminatory licensing of speakers in public places in cities. 
Different cities have banned persons from expressing an un­
popular viewpoint on the grounds that such conduct may 
lead to disturbances. Thus a city can effectively prevent 
anyone from giving a public speech. It is suggested that in­
stead cities use their police forces to prevent disturbances and 
protect the individual’s right to say that he pleases. The 
right of cities to prevent speeches should be taken away; its 
very existence is a danger. Today the paradoxical situation 
exists where a Southern city can ban pro-integration speech­
es, and a Northern city can ban the opposite viewpoint!
These examples may seem trivial, but the principle is 
vital — freedom of speech means freedom of all to speak 
without anyone or any idea being put at a legal disadvantage.
It is important to note, though, that freedom, is now the rule 
in the United States, and the examples above are exceptions; 
this column attests to that.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE VF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8898; Advertising Manager, MU. 
29753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-8959. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inq.
Editor-in-Chief ...................................;...Miron Straf
Executive Editor ................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Managing Editor .............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ..................................Michael McCoy
News Editor ...............................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor ..................................Alma Rock
Features Editor ......................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ..............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ..................................John Norris
Sports Editor ......................................................John Blue
Layout Editor .......................................Nancy Cameron
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ....................................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Riva, Margie Paik, Annie Moser, Charles Hofook, Martin 
Ackerman. Elaine Grumer, Fritz Klinke.
Photo: Aron Collins. Bill Jackson, Russ Stinebaugh.
Secretarial Staff: Carole Breuer. Ann Carten. Nancy Beth Jacobs, Leslie McKinley, 
Sue Sterhardt, Lorraine Vinograd, Mary Muir, Jenny Low, Carol Young, 
Jane Samuels.
News Staff: Margie Park, Bob Wohlford, Justin Polulack. Colin Jones, Marty 
Moore, Fay Landau. Gladys Stalinsky. Jay Lapidus. Elie Denberg. Miriam 
Gilespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois Riva. Sandy Lancaster, Ellen Hamill, Nancy 
Adams, Sandy B.vme.
I'irrulation: George Kali. Tom Glassberg
Feature Staff: Marion Mulligan, Jennifer Low. Marty Sai'er, Martha Hodgson, 
Irene Grandberg, Aril Soule, Jeffrey Axelrad, Jane Keeler, Sut Crytzer, 
Bob Godt.
Copy Staff: Barbara Biown, Nancy Green, Jane Keeler, Mary Muier, Jane Sam­
uels. Ginny Uliss, Verna Ream,
Layout Staff: Drew Lippay, Dick Elder, Tom Glassberg, Marion Mulligan, Sue 
Stitt. Al Pollock, Fritz Klinke, Holy Lawiance.
Staff: Scott McCormick, Tom Terpack, Dick Elder, Tod Engelmann.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 1«, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 5
shave... nick... ouch... 
...dress...rush... rip... 
• change... drive... speed 
flat.. .fix.. .arrive.. .wait
po8 JhiTuun:§xDTu hM§xMhh:xM§ §:T3a
Start at $8,400 with local corporation 
No Agency Fee
Aid for graduate studies on night school plan available.
Call . . . Career Personnel 
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh 22
...wait...pause...
t
take a break...things go better with CokeTKAOK-MAItK $
0GVVcNF fRFNE VrN OfVrGEAVL GI irN DGUObDGcO DGHlORL yLs
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA Bottling Company» Pittsburgh, ,Oe
••COCA-COL*" ANO "COKE" AM REGISTERED LAOS-MARKS WHICH IDENTIFY ONLY THE PRODUCT OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.
date... late... shower...
Goldenfelds Seli -5erve Market
4525 Forbes Avenue at Craig Street
formerly 414 S. Craifg Street
— We Carry The Most Complete Line Of Select —
Groceries — Choice Meats — Dairy Products 
Frozen Food — Fresh Fruits and Vegetables 
Dietetic Fruits and Vegetables — Also a Complete Line 
of General Merchandise Including a Delicatessen
.mnM§ JTM summer is seersucker with
CR1CKETEER*
From New Orleans to Newport 
it’s the same old story: 
Seersucker is an American 
Summer tradition. Our 
Cricketeer Southampton 
Seersucker adds a 
new chapter to this classic 
with a Dacron*
polyester and cotton blend for 
the look of "well-mannered 
casualness." The trim natural, 
lines of the coat stay that way.
$29.95
aVLd gVOFv AAHVOd
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel mil
Phone 521-7600
Open Taesday and Thursday evenings antU
teaders Write
Header Claims Art 
Can Be Pleasant
(continued from page 4) 
ity itself. It is said that artists 
must express themselves. What ¦ 
a narrow, confining thing to ex- 
fgpress! Art must reach higher 
and wider than the self, as it 
once did.
I know a man who has lived 
through the last sixty years and 
has seen and felt the worst of it. 
Now he looks for an art that will 
leave him “happier and nobler.” 
I like to think that someday he 
would be my customer.
Gregory Smith 
•«k Senior Painter
Graphics Presents 
The Film Series, 
“Design In Film”
"Design in Film,” a film seriea 
presented by the department of 
graphic arts at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, is being given 
March 28 through April 10.
The films will be shown on 
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday 
at 11:30 a.m. and on Tuesday and 
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in the 
Porter Garnett Gallery at Car­
negie Tech. Different films will be 
shown each day and will consist 
of experimental animated films 
produced by the Animation 
Workshop of the University of 
California, Los Angeles, unusual 
industrial 11ms, and avant-garde 
television commercials. There will 
also be an exhibition which will 
include story boards, preliminary 
sketches and character sketches 
by Electra Film Products, Ani­
mation, UCLA.
ATO CelebrateThe only one if its kind — that’s Ford Motor Company's Mustang.
Founder’s DayStudent SAE Group Sponsors The Showing
Of Ford’s Mustang Outside EH
Ford’s Mustang will be at Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy April 10. A guest of the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Student SAE groups, the sports car will be on public display 
outside Engineering Hall, at 10:00 a.m. The student group is 
planning a meeting at 7:30 p.m. in the All Purpose Room, 
Skibo Hall, to hear engineering details on the car presented 
by R. C. Lunn, Manager, Vehicle? ~~
Concepts Department. Everyone 
interested is welcome.
The Brothers and Alumni of 
ATO commemorated the found­
ing of the fraternity at the Found-S
l^r’s Day dinner held Thrusday, 
^pril 5, at the chapter house. 
Don Blackwood (CIT ’36), un­
cle of active Tom Blackwood, 
acted as master of ceremonies. 
J. D. Sands (CJT ’38), Purchas­
ing . Agent for Tech, and John 
Pekruhn (Ohio State), Professor 
i in the School of Architecture and 
chapter advisor, represented the 
school. Perhaps the oldest active 
alumni in the area, John Elliott 
^CIT ’10), also was present. Other 
*rea alumni represented Stan­
ford, W. & J., Penn State, Illi­
nois, and R. P. I.
Following dinner, Toastmaster 
Blackwood presented Silver Cer­
tificates to many of the alumni 
present. These certificates are 
awarded for 25 years of active 
service to the fraternity.
Presenting the main speech of 
the evening was Robert Simonds 
! iIllinois), who has taken a very 
Active part in the fraternity, in­
cluding several national offices. 
His very entertaining speech cen­
tered on the image the fraternity 
system presents to the public. He 
concluded with a challenge to 
the brothers and alumni not to 
sit back, but rather to push for­
ward and strengthen not only our 
fraternity, but the fraternity sys- 
ten in general.
Anyone interested in copy- 
reading for the TARTAN, please 
contact Claire Dzatko MU 2-8881.
The Mustang appeared at shows, 
in Copenhagen, Denmark; Oslo, 
Norway; and Geneva, Switzer­
land, being flown both ways 
across the Atlantic. Reaction to 
the car in European circles was 
enthusiastic.
On American campuses, stu­
dent engineering groups are plan­
ning meetings to see a movie trac­
ing the development of the car 
and listen to a technical presenta­
tion on its engineering features. 
It is believed that the color film 
is the first to be made by one-the- 
spot filming of the planning and 
building of a first-off version of a 
car.
The tour, beginning on the East 
Coast in April, extends across the 
country to West Coast colleges 
and then returns to the Midwest 
in May for a swing through Il­
linois, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, 
New York, and Pennnsylvania. 
Although it has been seen by well 
over a million and a half people 
in auto shows in Milwaukee, Chi­
cago, Denver, Philadelphia, Los 
Angeles and Dallas, this will be 
the first opportunity most stu­
dents will have to see the Mus­
tang.
Capable of speeds well in ex­
cess of 100 miles per hour, the 
Mustang is powered by a modi­
fied V-4 engine developed by Ford 
of Germany. It dev elopes 106 
horsepower and obtains 35 miles 
per gallon in normal highway 
driving.
A one-of-a-kind car, the Mus­
tang was developed at Ford to 
test our engineering and styling 
features that may be incorporated 
in future passenger cars.
Classified Ads
Nice 4-room bath furnished apt. for rent 
for summer up to 4 male students. Nice 
neighborhood, plenty parking. Light and 
airy trunk room. Call after 2:00 JA. 1- 
2497.
1 room with large home near campus 
for 1 or 2 women. Meals optional. MU. 
3-3239.
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts. 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel­
ling errors corrected.
Electric .typewriter .for .sale, .1958 
“Modern” type, tropic tan 88 character 
keyboard, excellent condition. Used about 
6 months in all $250. Nancy Denhart. 
MA. 1-3500 ext. 591.
On April 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page C A CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 10, 1963
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS for ARROW PRODUCTS
Y£TORP£IINUCPRhP MIRToOPw £PS FKAPO:oOPw:n rL£TKAOPw iDN gL£wKL F£:oORP:
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND 
OPEN MONDAY, WEDNESDAY A FRIDAY TILL 9:00 P.M.
New Sorority Members Total 70, 
Fraternities Get 140 Initiates
Artists sketch of the new room for the Hunt Library.
Grant Makes Early Completion 
Of The Hunt Library Possible
Present plans call for the com­
pletion of the fourth floor of the 
Hunt Library by the fall of 1963. 
Although it was not planned to 
use this floor until 1970, a gift 
of $175,000 last November has 
made this earlier occupancy pos­
sible. The donor specified that this 
money be used to construct rooms 
to house fine and rare books. An 
additional $125,000 will be needed 
to complete and furnish the rest 
of the floor.
The Fine Arts collection of 
ix>oks, journals, slides, prints, 
etc., now housed on the third
floor, will be moved to this floor 
as soon as it is completed.
Music listening facilities will be 
provided and will include forty 
individual earphone stations in 
addition to two sound-proof rooms 
for live listening.
It will be possible, with the 
space vacated on the third floor, 
to bring engineering and scientific 
journals now housed in the base­
ment to the third floor.
Architects for the design of the 
Fine Books Room and the com­
pletion of the fourth floor are 
Warner, Burns, Toan, and Lunde, 
of New York Gity.
Dr. Lang Receives 
NAS-NRC Award
April 1, 1963, The National Aca- 
d e m y of Sciences-National Re­
search Council announced that Dr. 
L. George Lang of Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, has been awarded 
an NAS-NRC Postdoctral Re­
search of thr Office of Aerospace 
Research. The program was in­
augurated in 1960 to provide to 
young investigators of superior 
ability special opportunities for 
advanced study and fundamental 
research in the various branches 
of the natural and applied sci­
ences. These felowships are ad­
ministered by the Fellowship 
Office of the National Academy
o f Sciences - National Research 
Council.
(continued on page 8)
The past few months have seen 
pledges of Tech’s seven sororities 
and twelve fraternities become ac­
tive members of their respective 
organizations. The combined total 
of new sorority initiates is 70. The 
fraternities initiated a total of 140 
new members. Following are the 
names of the new initiat.es:
Alpha Eps»on Phi: Patti Ask- 
Judy Denberg, Lois Elinoff, 
Freeman, Ruth Geshekter, 
Jan Greifinger, Roz Gross, Marcia 
Israel, Bette Levy, Karen Miller, 
Carole Wolfe, Barbara Sloven, 
Patsy Tuccio, and Ellen Weiser. 
Chi Omega: Sharon Brady, Nancy 
Mayberry, Lynne Jenkins, Verna 
Ream, Marion Thomassy, Pam 
Mayers, Joanne Swick, and
Deborah Sakmar. Delta Delta
Delta: Betsy-Jo Beckley, Janet 
Ruth Cain, Susan Dunbar Crytzer, 
Gail Helen Drake, Ellen Clare
Hamill, Charlotte Blair Kiss,
Mary Elizabeth Loree, Joanne 
Eleanor Rose, and Jane Ann Yard. 
Delta Gamma: Veronica Antico, 
Sara Ann Cromley, Patricia Hart­
man, Jennifer Low, Pamela Mey­
ers, Jacqueline Owen, Mary Lou 
Recco, Sally Sofield, Nancy Trog- 
lione, Susan Van Gorder, Paulette 
Zdrojkowski, Susan Seibert, and 
Susan Stitt. Kappa Alpha Theta:
Jane Carson, Patricia Gardner, 
Mary Jane Hebrank, Carol Kurtz, 
Marjorie Mathie, Jean Melaney, 
Grace Elizabeth Ruch, Carole 
Smith, and Lynelle Torno. Kappa 
Kappa Gamma: Barbara Bashein, 
Pat Bonner, Norene DiBucci, 
Linda Fain, Sandy Fogelsanger, 
Pamela G a r r, Emma Gasowski, 
Joan Jaques, Karen Landau, Sally 
Morley, Carol Schell, and Cheryl 
Stanton. Sigma Kappa: Carole
Breuer, Susan Sterhardt, Baila 
Handelman, Virginia Mattern, and 
Christy Myers. Alpha Tau Omega: 
James Brownrigg, Allen Green, 
James Hagarman, William Harri­
son, Thomas Huhn, James Newell, 
Joseph Paqliare, Raymond Rieser, 
Ronald Robinson, Henry Segalini, 
and Luther Stevens. Beta Sigma 
Rho: Donald Bucksbaum, Alan 
Cohen,. Murray Eisenberg, Stu 
Fleishman, Harris Friedman, Ben­
son Goldstein, Richard Hochhäus­
er, Ralph Katz, Mark Shellans, 
Roger Schank, Alan Slate, Art 
Stern, Llyod Sidney, and John 
Oppenheimer. Beta Theta Pi: Dale 
Johnson, Chris Macosko, Doug 
Miller, Joe Kownacki, Dick Mor­
rison, Fred Stone, Dave Donriinicis, 
Pete Riccardella, Steve Easley, 
Dick Bostleman, John Bennett, 
(continued on page 8)
LIEUTENANT BOB AKAM, B.S. IN AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
2xI x rOF AV VG FG G-NE OWOARP YGfcF x VOBN TEHL :KmKiKDKv
Look at it this way. I like the idea of doing challenging 
work. That’s why I volunteered for Special Forces. So 
you can see why I felt pretty good when the Army assigned 
me to Europe! Here I really feel I’m doing something for 
the cause of my country in these important times, How 
many jobs can you think of that start you off with this 
kind of responsibility ? My wife’s here, too, and she loves 
it. We get a chance to travel. We meet the people, learn 
new languages, customs. And there’s a pretty active 
social life on post, too. But above all, I’m an officer with 
a job to do and with responsibilities to shoulder. I like 
it that way, and I have a hunch that my leadership train­
ing and experience will help me out whatever I do. Take 
it from me, if you’re already half-way towards your 
commission, see it through. It’s a good deal. I know."
you go you look tetter in
RROW- ________
Here's where a button-down should button down

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 1«, 196S — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pag« 7
IgANKUalFiiWT
EilenpE rian 
setrais 
oeleornoE 
dg
^Tech Welcomes Prospective Freshmen To Campus
Photos by Aron Collons
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women 
when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it.
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best 
after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. 
Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it 
helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracer’s crisp, long-lasting aroma 
just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because of this effect.
How intelligent! iM]
Franklin M£B£EK:
GlNR N-NEL ifNAFGL N-NRARW 
7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION 
581« FORBES AVE.. SQUIRREL HILLOner 95 Y taré *) Servie» te tkt Pittsburgh Community
• Save by mail. We pay postage and provide free envelopes, too.
• Save by the 10th — earn from the first.
• Ali savings insured up to S1Q,000.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 10, 1963
There*s no cigarette fjke a CameL Its 
taste *$ distinctive, Alert. All tfrere< 
Camel's got swagger—yet it’s smooth. 
Get the clean-cut taste of rich tobaccos* 
Get with Camel Every inch a real smoke
...comfortably smooth, toot i
irX yN!V 
VGyOUUG 
11 HOBN! VrN 
yéèV !HGBNV
I BLEKB 1dtCA-mA
GARY GOULD ^Skilled wqter sportsman
-.wv.-y.-vti
ENGINEERING AND BUSINESS 
ADMINISTRATION MAJORS ...
Interviews April 23rd. Entrance salary for business adminis­
tration majors — $4565 a year. Guarantee after 2years — 
$8410 a year.
Entrance salaries for engineering majors — $5525 a year. 
Guarantee after 2*4 years — $8970.
§hMh:Tu ah:VxDha T3JxMxai:TixmMa
United States
Government desires architects, civil, electrical, mechanical 
engineers and business administration majors to enter training 
program (2 Vz years with automatic salary advancement.) Design, 
construction, and management opportunities in Washington, D.C.
tOwP £T aI£eLBLPT mKAL£K
Engineering Trainees s6,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
JhDtTMxDTu m: huhDi:xDTu
¡Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
Cali... CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh, 22
Pgh. Innovates 
Dinner Theater
An entirely new concept in 
Pittsburgh entertainment history 
will be inaugurated on Wednes­
day evening, April 17, when the 
Vogue Terrace Dinner Theater, 
Crooked Run Road, McKeesport, 
presents its premiere performance 
of Irving Berlin’s “Annie Get 
Your Gun,” starring Ginger 
Rogers.
A $1500,000 renovation job, in­
cluding complete air-conditioning, 
is now being completed at the 
Theater. Individually and in 
groups district play-goers have 
been quick to take advantage of 
Dinner Theaer’s “Package Deal,” 
which includes dinner, the show 
—a complete, uncut Broadway 
musical — free parking and danc­
ing.
There wil be six evening per­
formances and two matinee stag­
ings, on Wednesdays and Satur­
days.
The Vogue Terrace project is 
the latest operation of Dinner 
Theater, Inc., highly successful in 
several other cities. The local 
Dinner Theater will operate 12 
months a year under a lease sign­
ed with Joseph Contrucci, owner 
of the McKeesport spot, famous 
for years as the home of big name 
night club acts.
Richard Scanga and Carl Low, 
each well known in drama cir­
cles here, and now executives of 
Dinner Theater, Inc., will act as 
co-producers. One of Carl Low’s 
daughters, Jennifer, is presently a 
freshman in the Drama Depart­
ment here at Tech.
'II rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
Helene Carrell - Nationally known 
Handwriting Analyst Appearing 
Nightly
kotel WebAtw -Halt
4415 FAIVr T-GRfX ,AVV »yfEWr xaP ,XK
T.I*phon*; MAyflow*r 1*7700
Tech Sororities. Fraternities 
Complete Initiating Members
undergraduate, he held the George 
Westinghouse Scholarship for four 
years. As a graduate student, he 
was the recipient of National Sci­
ence Foundation Graduate Fel­
lowships for two years. He is a 
member of Sigma Xi.
Dr. Lang will pursue his fellow­
ship at the Atomic Energy Re­
search Establishment at Harwell, 
England, where he will conduct 
research in the field of experi­
mental physics under the direction 
of Dr. Walter Marshall.
WHAT’S
NEW
xM ith T,:xuTiuTMixDv
William Saroyan: The famed author of 
Boy* and Girls Together has written 
four playlets for The Atlantic. A real 
tour de force.
Randall Jarrell: A leading literary 
critic offers a detailed analysis of some 
Russian short novels by Gogol,Turgenev 
and Tolstoy.
Ralph McGill: A poignant study of the 
effects of sectionalism, the Ku Klux 
Klan, the depression and war years on 
the South.
ALSO
"Labor’s Welfare State": In the first of 
a series of labor union profiles, A. H. 
Raskin looks at New York’s Local 3 of 
the Electrical Workers’ union — 
first union local to establish 
a 25-hour workweek.
The pursuit of excel­
lence is the everyday 
job of The Atlantic's 
editors be it in fic­
tion or fact, poetry 
or prose. In ever- 
increasing numbers, 
those in pursuit of 
academic excellence 
find in The Atlantic a 
challenging, enter­
taining and enlight­
ening companion.
Get your copy today.
(continued from page 7)
Phil Beauregard, John Turko, Ron 
DeFeo, Bob Nolan, Jim Leivo, Jon 
Parker, and Gene Labbett.
Delta Tau Delta: Bob Boeck- 
man, Don Covaleski, Jay Earley, 
Darryl Degelman, Bob Hammond, 
Chris Knapp, and Bob Salter. 
Delta Upsilon: Tom Bednarz,
Herb D’Alo, Loy Golumb, Mike 
Gross, Bill Hofer, Andy Icken, 
Gary Leach, Vera Leicht, Ray 
Matuza, Dick Merrill, Frank 
Morra, Bob Rosche, Don Solow, 
and Len Wisniski. Pi Kappa Al­
pha: Kenneth B. Adler, David A. 
Allshouse, Joseph D. Bowman, 
Jr., Kenneth J. Donnelly, Michael 
G. Everson, Leroy P. Gunner, 
Richard L. Hack, Charles Kauf­
man. Elliott S. Milstein, Robert B. 
Peterson, Stanley J. Perper, Theo­
dore F. Skiba, William E. Suhie, 
and Luis A. Zaera. Kappa Sigma: 
Ray Baughman, Carl Clark, Ron 
Hill, Dick Olsen, and Charlie 
Walker. Phi Kappa Theta: Wal­
lace Block, James Leone, Daniel 
Parietti, James Kratofil, Joseph 
Sinibinger, Stephen Howdyski, 
Kenneth Kelly, William Phillips, 
John Yavorsky, John Kosowski.
Sigma Alpha Epsioln: Karl
Zuegeber, Bently Anderson, Bob 
Forster, Doug Cranwell, Bob 
Cooper, Jerry Jim, Walt Kennedy,
and Chuck Prior. Sigma Nu: 
Barry Westerland, Robert Fritz, 
Sherman Scott, John E. Miller, 
Tom Chamberlin, Allan Pollock, 
David Gerwig, Robert Wohlford, 
Paul Davidson, Alan Aber, Tom 
Glassberg, Craig Kille, Melvin 
Barr, Robert Erskine, Ted Engel- 
mann, Richard Shriner, John 
Frank, Monte Morticai. Tau Delta 
Phi: Tony Berbes, Steve Berem, 
Jay Bradbury, Pete Jacobson, Tod 
Johnson, Jim Levy, Mickey Long, 
John Lieberman, Marty Oring, 
John Piscitelli, Steve Sedacet, 
Gerry Slavin, Ken Solmon, John 
Ward, Steve Weinrich, Steve 
Weiss, and Ron Werrin. Theta Xi: 
George Merriman, Ed Morofsky, 
A1 Merchant, and Harry S. 
Brickerl.
Science Academy 
Gives Dr. Lang 
Research Grant
(continued from page 6)
Dr. Lang, born in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania in 1931, attended 
Tech where he received his Bach­
elor of Science, Master of Sci­
ence, and Doctor of Philosophy 
degrees. A research Physicist at 
Tech for three years, Dr. Lang is 
now an Assistant Professor. As an
/

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 1«. 1963 — CARNEGIE TARÎAN — Page 9
This Week In Pittsburgh Tartan Presents Masterpiece
APRIL 13 and SUNDAY, APRIL 14
Pittsburgh Symphony — Lorin Hollander, pianist;
William Steinberg, conducting 
Festival Overture — Nikolai Lopantnikoff; Piano 
Concerto No. 2 in C minor — Rachmaninoff: “Alba” 
for flute and orchestra — Wilfrid Mellers; “Falstaff,” 
symphonic study with two interludes — Elgar.
APRIL 10
“What Chess Machines Can Learn from Men.” — Prof. 
Allen Newell, institute professor of systems of 
communication and science. — Scaife Lecture Hall — 
4:30 p.m.
“Freud and Luther” — Second in Hillel lecture series 
by Rabbi Richard L. Rubenstein. No charge for 
II members. $3 for non members. Registration, Skibo 57, 
Lecture Skibo-40, — 4:30 p.m.
Carnegie Concert series. An Evening of Sonatas — 
Sidney Harth, violin, Harry Franklin, piano. Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. 8:30 p.m.
CONTINUING EVENTS
Nixon — “Lawrence of Arabia” Arec Guiness,
Peter O’Toole 
Gateway — “To Kill a Mockingbird” Gregory Peck;
. Fulton — “Miracle of the White Stallions” Robert Taylor 
Warner — “How the West was Won”
Squirrel Hill — “David and Lisa”
Shadyside — “Two for the Seesaw”
Guild — “.Sundays and Cybele”
An thate I pased Bye Roome 55 on Tuesdaye Laste 
’Sblood! quoth I What mortle soond heare so?
An thynking thus to nowe, I dide myselve 
Peeke throu that portale, for the noise, in trouthe,
Bendyng myne eere ’till it shode fal to erth 
Dide sobb and eeke of mournvng, thogh with joye 
of strange chrectyre.
Behylde me players three
Who puffed and sange with unabated vigore
Until the verie walls dide rynge for joye,
upone ther instriments, meethote 
Recorders,
Of anciente type.
SnS Promises 
Pageantry
(continued from page 1) 
Rosenfeld; and the hard-boiled 
show-girl, Sandy Stone.
Add to this a bevy of former 
contestants, distinguished judges 
and volatile reporters and you 
have the formula for the show. 
Scotch ’n Soda had added the 
pageantry, glamour, glitter, and 
suspense which surrounds such a 
contest. Who will win? Who 
knows: Come and see !
Goode wot, 
groupe !
they were a merrie
These instriments, 
from a hyst’ry
cal I, come
Symposium Set 
At Chatham
Seven authorities on Latin 
America and its problems today I dergraduates this year and is in- .. ,. . , i tended as an outstanding andw,11 participate m a symposium comprehensive representation oi 
at Chatham College on Friday coUegiate poetry. 
and Saturday, April 19 and 20. _‘_________
H. McCormick, and “Leaves” by 
Peggy Riva.
According to editors Henry A. 
Paper and Walter O. Kaelber, the 
publication is a collection of the 
200 best poems submitted by un-
Loonge and riche with fortun and 
chivalrie,
First played nyne hundrede yers 
A.D. Goode save us,
Whan merrie minstrules to amuse 
and plague us
Dide eeke the nyght awaie with 
tuneful blysshe.
Thuse do thees players vow 
entreete, kynde men
And singers, to them joyne, whan 
Tuesdaye come againe.
Be Shrewd , . .
20% DISCOUNT
QUALITY DRY CLEANING 
Fine Shirt and Laundry Service
CRANDALL-McKENZIE
3935 Forbes Ave. HA 1-7500
Open 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
The Symposium is open to stu­
dents and faculty from tri-state 
area colleges and universties and 
other interested members of the 
community.
The Symposium is part of a 
Pfear-long series of community 
programs on Latin America 
which were made possible at 
Chatham College by the Buhl En­
dowment and by gifts from cor­
porations and businesses also in­
terested in this vital part of the 
world.
Registration materials and in­
formation regarding housing ar­
rangements may be obtained by 
/riting to the Secretary of the 
College, Chatham College, Pitts­
burgh 32.
Poems Written 
By Tech Students 
Are Published
C. I. T. is among 61 colleges and 
l^niversities represented in 
Young Voices,” 'a poetry anthol­
ogy published by the Inter-Col­
legiate Poetry Congress with the 
cooperation of Bucknell Univer­
sity.
Two poems by Tech students 
were included in the anthology. 
They are “Come Out” by James
Father Carroll 
Speaker At TX
On April 1, Father Carroll, a 
member of the faculty of Mt. 
Mercy College, spoke after dinner 
on “Freud and Religion” to the 
brothers of Theta Xi. He first pre­
sented an outline of Freud’s life 
showing him to be a scientific 
discoverer who investigated the 
subconscious despite the ridicule 
of society. The science of psychol­
ogy in his day could not help the 
patients Freud met in his clinical 
work, so he advanced tentative 
theories explaining their plight 
using a new concept, the subcon­
scious. Freud also discerned the 
two different male and female 
roles in life, and tried to interpret 
dreams as the subconscious sym­
bols of a person’s sexual needs.
The Church and the general 
public initially reacted against the 
teachings of Freud, believing him 
to be radical and even immoral. 
Since that time, the Church has 
generally come to accept Freud’s 
findings and to use them in its 
counseling.
Following his talk, Father Car­
roll answiered questions on a wide 
variety of topics within sociology 
and religion.
RENT NEW CARS... AND SAVE UP TO
SHARI TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON TOUR NEXT 
DATE! IT'S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note: Other car rental 
companies do not rent to driveis under 25.
BUDGET RENT-A-CAR TA RNVVOLUME5— NB23
609 Bigelow Blvd. (Acroti from the Corlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Fa.
aoRPL; 261-3320
Guess who offered me an executive 
position with a leading organization, 
where I’ll get good pay, further my 
education, and enjoy world travel?
My uncle.
In this case, nepotism’s a pretty good idea. 
And the best way to get it is through Air Force 
ROTC—because the Air Force prefers to com­
mission its officers directly upon graduation. 
But if you couldn’t fit AFROTC into your 
schedule, you can still apply for Air Force 
Officer Training School.
OTS offers college men and women an oppor­
tunity to assume great responsibility. When
you complete the three month course, you’ll 
be commissioned a second lieutenant, and be­
come a part of a vital aspect of our defense 
effort. As an Air Force officer, you’ll be a 
leader on the Aerospace Team.
We welcome your application for OTS now— 
but the same may not be true next year. So if 
you’re within 210 days of graduation, get full 
information from the Professor of Air Science.
U. S. Air Force

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 10, 196S
Jim deBlais Continues Studies At Tech; 
Enjoys Teaching and Casual Role In Life
Engineering & Science Honorary, 
Tau Beta Pi, Announces Election 
Of Seventeen New Pledges
By Andrea Vidakovie
A young man with the under­
standing eyes of a sage strolled 
into the lounge of the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse School of the Theatre. 
Casually dressed in a sports pack­
et. sweater and slacks, he beamed 
a warm-hearted smile and sank 
into a yielding sofa. As he began 
an animated conversation. I im­
mediately pictured him on stage 
before a fascinated audience.
James deBlasis has always 
wanted to sing; nothing could 
stifle this desire — not even the 
United States Army. He took ad­
vantage of being stationed in Ger­
many and studied at the Stuttgart 
Opera Company for 18 months. 
Encouraged by this training, his 
desire drove him to New York 
City where he worked in an office 
to pay for additional voice lessons. 
Of his days in New York, he la­
mented, ‘‘It was futile. I had the 
ambition, but no preparation.” 
And. with a chuckle, “I guess that 
just like everyone else. I was hop­
ing to find success waiting for me 
alone.”
Vowing to give up his ambitions 
in the musical theatre forever, he 
left New York to accept an assist­
ant managerial position in a 
jewelry store in Bellaire, Ohio. 
But once again his intense desire 
to perform forced him to sing, 
and he became bass soloist for a 
church choir. “Good fortune was 
on my side when the choir organ­
ist left,” he reminisced, lighting 
his first cigarette. “Mr. Henry 
Mazer, the conductor for the 
Wheeling Symphony Society, con­
sented to replace her one Sunday. 
Since I was now directing the 
choir,” he continued, fingering his . 
ink-black hair, “I had the oppor­
tunity to talk with Mr. Mazer 
awhile. After several subsequent 
meetings, we discussed producing 
a Grand Opera in this little town. * 
And we did.” Mr. deBlasis w^as 
not only a performer in the opera 
but designer of sets and director; 
as well. “There were other pro- 
ductions, for example, The Marri­
age of Figaro. Eventually Mr. 
Mazer asked why I never had 
gone to school to gain experience , 
in staging and dramatics. His: 
question made me think seriously j 
about returning to school, and 
consequently I applied to Carnegie 
Tech. I studied there for five years 
and received the preparation I so 
badly needed.”
James deBlasis specialized in di­
recting at Tech and after graduat­
ing in 1959 continued for a year 
to receive his M.F.A. in a combin- j 
ed field of music and direction. In j 
1960, he began teaching full time 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse and 
part time at Carnegie Tech
Adroitly flipping out and light­
ing a second cigarette, he paused 
for a moment to greet an ap­
proaching colleague. “Since re- • 
turning to school, I’ve wanted to 1 
combine music and directing. To j 
perform well, a vocalist must j 
dramatize; that is, he must be 
able to ‘act out’ as well as sing | 
a song.” Musical theatre, a com- j 
bination of dramatics and music, j 
is what he teaches at Tech in j 
the Opera Workshop. Evidently j 
pleased he said that contrary to j 
what many professionals once ! 
believed possible, this intermingl­
ing of music and theatre has been j 
quite successful.
He is also gratified and sur- i 
prised by his new-found ability 
to train others, “Having married j 
a teacher and lived with her for 
a number of years,” he grinned, 
“1 never thought I could put up j 
with all that she, as a teacher, 
had endured. But now I find, that 
what most teachers say is true. 
One does find a personal reward 
in teaching when a student ‘gets 
it.’ It is richly satisfying to see 
a part of me in the student who
and extremely active life. He is 
Assistant Stage Director of the 
Pittsburgh Opera Company and 
faculty advisor to the Scotch ’n 
Soda productions at Tech. “Work­
ing with students out of class as 
well can lead to amusing situa­
tions. Once I was confronted by 
a member of the administration 
who declared ‘You look just like 
a student’! I was dressed like 
this.” he confessed, chuckling as 
he indicated his un-academic 
crew neck sweater and slacks. For 
three years he has directed the 
touring Knickerty Knockerty 
players, and. as a resident actor- 
singer for the Civic Light Opera 
Company since 1958. he has por­
trayed a host of colorful roles 
(Harry the Horse in Guys and 
Dolls, Francy in BeUs are Ring­
ing, and Dr. Blind in Roslinda). 
He added another to this list of 
accomplishments when he ap­
peared in La Boheme. Because of 
his ability to play such a wide 
range of characters, he has been 
called a “juvenile sophisticate.” 
As he crushed the remnant of 
his cigarette, listened momentar­
ily to the voice flowing from the 
music room
to leave, a smile of contentment ! Tau Beta National Engineering and Science honorary,
Professor IS e well Discusses 
What Chess Machines Can Learn
“What Chess Machines Can Learn from Man” will be
came to his face. “Yes, ... so ; announces the election of 17 new pledges. The pledges, who 
far, so good; I’ve been quite for- were elected on the basis of academic performance, will be in- 
tunate.” i itiated on April 25, 1963.
——— — -—? They are: Robert Godt, 3t3E;
Roy Westerbury, 3EE; Max Clark, 
3 CE; Gary Hess, 3EE; Richard 
Ferguson, 3ME; Joseph Hartman, 
3EE; John Thalimer, 4EE; Rich­
ard Copchik, 4 Chem; Richard 
Massmer, 4 Chem; Paul Ossip. 4
,, ., , . , , -. ^ Chem; and Robert Revay, 4the subject of a lecture to be delivered by Dr. Allen Newell, | Physics.
institute professor of systems and communications sciences 1
at Carnegie, on April 10, at 4:30 p.m. ~ ! Two niSht schoc)1 students, both! seniors, have also been elected. Dr. Newell, one of the country’s foremost experts in re- They are George Kemp, 4CE; etad
search on the simulation of human thought processes on the John Powers, 4 Chem E.
electronic computer, will deliver  -------—— ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------— -------
the talk under the auspices of,
The Society of Sigma Xi in the I 
auditorium of the Alan M. I 
Scaife Hall of Engineering on the 
Tech campus.
Dr. Newell did this undergrad­
uate work at Stanford University 
and graduate study at Princeton 
University and Carnegie Tech. He 
received his Ph.D. from Carnegie 
Tech’s Graduate School of Indus­
trial Administration. For eleven 
years, he was research scientist 
for the RAND Corporation of 
Santa Monica, California. He ac­
cepted his present position at Tech
SCOTCH 'Nr SODA TICKETS
Will go on sale 
starting Friday, April 19
Result: The experimental Ford Mustang, 
lively 2-seater loaded with 
significant engineering features
Just under 13 feet long—weight, 1544 pounds, 400 to 700 pounds 
less than comparable models of popular imported sports jobs— 
the Mustang is representative of the interesting design chal­
lenges at Ford Motor Company. Unique ways of reducing weight 
without sacrificing strength, to improve performance and 
economy, may stem from its design.
For example, seats are an integral part of the Mustang’s body, 
adding structural rigidity. Brake, clutch and accelerator are 
mounted on a movable cluster which can be adjusted fore and 
aft (as can the steering wheel) to suit varying sizes of drivers.
Other important features: low-drag, aerodynamic shape proven 
in the wind tunnel; independent front and rear suspension; disc 
front brakes; roll bar built as an integral part of the body/frame 
structure; hot V-4 engine mounted forward of the rear axle in 
unit with a 4-speed manual transmission.
The Mustang is another example of how challenging assign­
ments met by our engineers and stylists help Ford Motor 
Company maintain engineering leadership and provide new 
ideas for the American Road.
MEET THE MUSTAN6 "IN THE METAL”
xR!lNUV VrA! NxUAVARW RNY OfVGHGyAcN 
YrAcN AV’! GR FA!lcOL OV JOAR QfOFEORWcN 
RNOE JNUrORAUOc hRWARNNEARW 0fAcFARWP 
IEGH 10s00OKHKVG7s80lKHKGR TlEAc 10Vrw
Jf!VORW IAcH YAcc yN !rGYR OV 7s80 lKHK 
AR VrN Tcc ,fElG!N :GGHP aBAyG tOccK
Jmim: DmJ,TME 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP 
BRINGS YOU SETTER-BUILT CARS

---------------------------------------------------

Tech Gets Decisive103-28 Track 
Wi n Over The Jea n n ette Ha rriers
Photo by Aron Collons— Photo by Aron CollonsTony Williams edges over 12-foot mark in pole vault.
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
C0MÊ IrypTHesTOf^
AMP 
up 00 £
UllJk
Yoü 60 WJ^
V%
ujm ¦st°c£ Wûr4D /WA«« If' 
OP IT• //'
Carnegie Tech and St. Vincent 
played to a 3-3 standoff in the 
initial golf match of the season 
for both teams last Friday, April 
5. Playing a home match for Tech 
on the Longvue course, Shirley 
of St. Vincent took low score 
honors with a 72.
Shirey beat Jim Barr of Tech, 
72-82. Tech’s second man, Dick 
Morrison, also dropped his match 
as his St. Vincent opponent nosed 
him out 75-78. Heading the three 
winners for Tech was a pair of 
78’s, shot by Dale Johnson and 
Harvey Gammon. Pete Brotman 
of Tech was the third Tech win­
ner as he shot an 81. Roy Gingery 
was defeated by a Bearcat oppon­
ent who shot a 76, third best 
score of the day.
Tech’s second golf match was 
with Waynesburg on the Waynes- 
burg home course yesterday af­
ternoon. Details of this match 
were unavailable as the Tartan 
was sent to press.
you U7T6P-
mchu vVx
gcjTp! \\Æ\
AND TO SHOW OUR APPRECIATION FOR 
THE WONDERFUL RECEPTION WE'YE 
RECEIVED DURING OUR FIRST YEAR IN 
BUSINESS, WE'RE OFFERING
ON EVERYTHING IN OUR STORE . . . 
WED., THURS., FRI., APRIL 10, 11, 12 
9:30 A. M. to 9:00 P. M.
For the first time In your life 
feel really fall
uoL YLhL:T tEAOPw 
£PS tKBBLA trNIOPw:Weinstein's in Oakland
IU. 2-7752 3708 Forbes Ave.,AVV DOHlf!— aUIANRcNL 3GEHAVGEAN! 
8989 FGEyN! T-NKP ,AVV!yfEWr 18—JnK 8bo757
Wednesday, April 10, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Paffe 11

---------------------------------------------------

Pa«e IS — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 1*, IMS
SAVE MONEY! 
Special “Get Acquainted” Offer! 
CUSTOM PACK REGULAR PRICE *249
NOW ONLY $198Hurry! Offer good only while supply lasts!
Boys night out? — Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack , • K GE Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty) MU. 2-9318
— Photo by Aron Collons
Jeannette Muscleman whirls before discus throw.
Tech Captures Victory In Tennis
Tech tennis fortunes are look­
ing up, as proved by last Satur­
day’s rout of the St. Vincent 
Bearcats. Without the services of 
the three top singles players, 
Dave Tranquilla, John Jackson, 
and Ted Engelmann, Tech found 
victory an easy route, 9-0. Engel- 
mann, Tranquilla, and Jackson sat 
out the singles contests in order to 
give varsity experience to Fresh­
men members of the team. Fresh­
men Curtis Chandler and Jack
Stone showed impressive victories j wick.
and along with Bill Jones, Jack Tech’s next match is on April 
Hershley, Jim Kamm and Ed Bar-' 17 against Westminster.
THIS IS THE FAMOUSCustom Pack!
Six choice pipe tobaccos
EASY WAY TO FIND 
A NEW FAVORITE!
Go to any tobacconist or druggist near the campus
JonesBerkmyreCIT6-16-1
ChandlerJulianoCIT6-36-1
HersheyMcGunnigleCIT6-16-1
BaruickKelleyCIT6-46-1
KammMehalicCIT6-36-1
StoneWill
3GfycN!
CIT6-26-2
Engelmann andBerkmyre andCIT3-66-2 6-1
TranquillaJuliano
Jackson andMcGunnigalCIT6-36-2
ChandlerLytikainen
Hershey andKelly andCIT6-06-0
Skembris Ramos
D0NNIF0RDT !HGGVrP HNccGY UGGc yfERARW HAxVfEN YAVr !fyVcN KVO!VN ORF OEGHOK
BRUSHnRAqfNcL Ifcc yGFANF ORF EAUr VO!VARWP LNV 
lcNO!ARWcL HAcFK
Look what you get—6 different, wonderful pipe tobaccos 
in one handy sample package! What easier way is there 
to become a tobacco connoisseur? You get only the 
finest premium blends you can buy. No ordinary pipe 
tobaccos here! Each blend is chosen for mild taste and 
pleasing aroma. Each blend has its own “special some­
thing’7 to give you a thoroughly satisfying smoke. 
Enjoy each one by itself or experiment! Mix different 
blends anyway you like for an exciting change of pace!
LET VITALIS® KEEP YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE!
Keep the oil in the can. In your hair, use Vitalis with V-7®, the 
greaseless grooming discovery. Fights embarrassing dandruff, 
prevents dryness-keeps your hair neat all day without grease.
KENTUCKY CLUB 
MIXTUREaHNcc! !G WGGF yNUOf!N 
AV VO!VN! !G WGGFK
LONDON DOCKT UGGcbyfERARW 
hRWcA!r VLlN VGyOUUGP FA!VARUVA-NcL OEGHOVAUK
WHITEHALL MIXTURE
aflNEycL HAcF ORF OEGHOVAUP RN-NE yfER! rGV
