-------------------------------------"------!
Men must be at liberty to 
gay in print whatever they have in mind to flay, pro­vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 29, NO. 18CAKNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEB. 26, 1935
I Additional 
tf M Sororities 
Recognized 
y Council
)rganizations Have Been 
Active with Unofficial 
Representation
{EWINTERSORORITY 
OUNCIL SUGGESTED
tecommendationforRevised 
Executive Body Is Made 
By Arts Groups
Two more sôrorities, namely. Al' 
ia Theta Sigma and Gamma Phi 
¡gma, of Margaret Morrison have 
>en recognized by Intersorority 
jouncil. Alpha Theta Sigma -was 
»rganlzed several years ago by 
icmbers of the class of '34. Peti- 
.Ion for recognition was begun last 
loouary, aud although represented' 
)y non-voting members, Alpha frhela Sigma was not officially rec* iignlzed by Student council until January 29. Gamma Phi Sigma &as recently recognized by Inter- ¡lorority council. Participation in ¦Ihe intersororlly formal dance Iasi iveek constitutes virtual recognl-
'pITicial sorority in. Margaret Morri­son. This was Kappa Phi Delta, Which was recognized last year by aatersoroilty council of the Col­lege of Fine Arts.- At this time \rt School, council suggested that orgaret*Morrlson Inaugurate an itcrsororlty executive body.The clTicers of Alpha Theta Sig- ia are Agnes Caucelliere '35, resident; Mary "Wynne *35, vice I>resli1ent; Ina Steffey '35,. secre­tory; Mary Lou Batty ’35, treasur­er; arid Betty Lehr '36, council representative. Faculty advisers of Hie sorority are Mrs. Ely ahd Pilgrim of the Department ot ¦tflrial Studies.e officers of Gamma Phi Sie­ve: Thelma Shelley '35,- presi­dent; Ruth Gustafson ’35, vice resident ; Mary Kreh *35, secre- ary; Edna Speed ’35,. treasurer, lie couvn.il vepreserttaUv.es.- and. lo'ulty aflviaers havV noTyeTieeii anted. The charter members or ‘amnia Phi Sigma Are now sen* >rs in Margaret Morrison. Theso lembcrs arc: Iluth Schmeltz,lary Kreh, Alba Waina, Edna Speed, Until Gustafson, Ann Hill, 1211a Mac Huff, Eileen Riley, Anna Ladd, Betty, DomhoiY, Thelma Shelly, and Louise Almy.
Women’sGleeClub 
Presents Concert
Violin Solos, Readings, Trios 
Feature Varied Program
h'iday niglu 
West End Methodist Episcopal fliurch. For the past two years ihe Glee club has been directed, by Helen Shaner ’35, Department of •Music. Grace Metzger *35, also of the Department of Music, is the accompanist.
The program consisting of ten numbers by the Glee, club, several French bora, solos, readies, and vocal -"!os, is as follows: (1)fckJbo Song, Dear Old Tech, Glee tlub; (2) The Carol of the Russian Wtildrpn, arr. by Gaul, and Maria Wiegenlled, Reger, Glee club; (3) French horn solos, selected, Olivia fiprneiy Barnetta-Davia- accompan- (4) The Last Song, Rogers, The Kerry Dance, Molloy, The T'vo Clocks, Rogers, Glee club; "ical Trios, selected, Hinda
Cerdas, Monti, Wilma Meibc, ,».» "Hist; (8) Murmuring Zepbrs, jei- Twenty Eighteen, English —une. Glee club; (9) Alina •'»ater, O’Brien; Glee club.
radio broadcast, during the
A.I.E.E. Selects 
Junior Office
elected from the
- •* vuuu3u,uy. i ne. omceru . a» e fréter Me Wykoff, chalrbian; Robert ,°ylc. vice chairman; J. Nelson treasurer; Robert C. Mc- • aater, secretary; and'John A. •'Urino, Robert E. O’Leary, Ray "‘QQd C. Thomas, Robert iH, Deahl, ““d Robert c. Coblentz on the pa- Pe4..arid. publicity, committee. . ..hese officers have been elected serve for a term of one month, the expiration ot which time officerà will be elected, prob- from the sophomore class. Th<; Purpose of these succeeding- short .*rrns is to give the underclassmen ^vsrince in cònàuctlng the affairs' ¡7; fhe nm -e u"e E. and to increase N,.eir interest in the‘organization. .."e Plan is bfelng sponsored by p? faculty adviser. Prof. G. M. rter, in * more to encourage oLudents to accept responslbil-
College Students Oppose 
Recent Hearst Propaganda
N. B. C. Broadcasts Program Entitled “Symposium 
Of Student Opinion”; College Editors Repudiate 
Spread of Communistic’Propaganda
Recently the National Broadcast­ing Company arranged a special program entitled, “Symposium of Student Opinion," which consisted of- short talks given by fifteen col­lege editors, representing student opinion on current student prob­lems throughout' the country. It is interesting to note the various subjects which were discussed by Ihe representatives. By far the most popular concerned the "Red Scare,” or a refutation of the Hearst propaganda, together with an advocacy of free thought; and a discussion of the changing cali­ber of college men and women. O’her subjects chosen included: educational problems of the col­lege. the • question of athletic. sub­sidization, and military prepared* ness through the ROTC.The editors of the Stanford and Southern California college papers scoffed at the “Red ScaTe,” calling it a “fake,” and pointing out that the colleges were not spreading propaganda, but were merely de­veloping the scientific Inquisitive, non-projudiced attitude. Two young ladles from Vassar and the 'Uni­versity of Louisiana, also repudi­ated the Idea of the spread of com- unistic propaganda in the colleges.The editor from Vassar set forth three answers to three accusa­tions which site said were rampant regarding her alma mater. VasBar ia not a “spinster factory,” for 80 per cent of its graduates marry; It does prepare girls; to marry, for It haB a department ot Home.Eco­nomics; and Vassar is not “radic- nT as Hamilton Fish has claimed; it is “liberal.”
fai
cording to its . editor. It nteroly sponsors freedom of thought and speech, liberal thinking guided by the discussions of national speak­ers. “Louisiana cherishes Ihe dis­tinction between liberty and. Ii-
The other two college editors who chose to discuss this subjec' presented a decidedly conservative' attitude. As one would expect, >red by tw< institution!, f learning in the United States— Vale and William and Mary. In a' clear, refined voice the Yale editor denounced radicalism, declared himself thoroughly conservative, even to the point of' disagreement with .the Roosevelt Administration. Furthermore, the Yale man made it understood lhat tbe proverbial Yale, student is not a “politician.” a “rah-rah boy,” or a “morose Phi B©ta Kappa;” he is a normal, in­terested human being.The conservative editor of Wil­liam and Mftry’s publication was proud of tbe historical background of his college, stressing the fact that. his college,' tbe' second oldest in the country, has seen many "new dealB.” and was well-veréed in them. The students oft his col­lege are interested in current problems, and are struggling for a satisfactory solution- They rebel at extreme socialistic and commun­istic movements, thinking It more desirable to improve the capitalistic system rather than re­pudiating its experience.- “The fContlnned From Page'Three)
R.O.T.C. Staff 
Lists" Officers 
F or Promotion
P. Mellinger Is Named 
To Recently Created 
Office, Lt.—Gol.
R. O. T, C. promotions havs.-bcon 
annbunce-d-'byvtIi§-.DepaTtiii^ht^of 
Military Science and Tactics.
Penrose S. Mellinger, as a rc-' 
ward for his excellence in aca­
demic subjects, for “faithful and en­
thusiastic attendance and perform­
ance of R, O. T. C. drills,“ -has been 
awarded a new office which was created for hint. He has been pro­moted from cadet major to. cAdet lieutenant colonel and is appointed regimental executive officer.
The following cadet lieutenants have .been promoted to cadet cap­tains; Robert Stannah, William Stafford and Ellis Smith. Second Lieutenants' Thomas Dana and James Robinson have been promot­ed to first lieutenants, and Cadet Sergeant John Comuntzis to cadet second lieutenant.
Penrose Mellinger was awarded the sterling silver medal given by the National Defense committee of the American Legion auxiliary for the highest honors In pistol marks­manship at the signal corps camp at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey.Mr. Mellioger besides being lieutenant colonel of the Carnegie R. O. T. C. unit, is captain of the rifle team, treasurer of the senior class of the College of Engineering, treasurer'of "Seaboard arid Blade, and holder of the gold medal given by this organization for the highest individual rifle score.The following sophomores have been appointed corporals for tbe second_ semester. These appoint­ments are based' on th'e students'' past'scholastic record and knowl­edge of drill and command as demonstrated on the field and in the class room,. The appointments
Lyndcn Ostjood. Harry
Prof. Delivers 
Two Lectures 
On Metallurgy
Dr. Edwards Discusses 
¦Metallic Crystals, 
Steel Sheets
Coming Events
Wednesday— '...4-3—Qpeiv- - ¡Ivousoj - -Bir-ch- -ana
Laurel halls.7:15—Thistle staff meeting —
luursaay—• ii:30—Science Colloquium, Fac­ulty room, Carnegie Inn.12:30—Safety Valve—E. H. 113. 8:30—Public lecture, Dr. C. A. Edwards, “Factors Governing - .« thcs -Growth:..nf Metallic Crys­tals1’—Carnegie union.
Friday—12:30—W. A. A. meeting—M. M.
104. '8:3(h^-Fublic lecture, Dr. C. A. Edwards, “Influences Govern­ing rietal Sheet3"-ç-Cûrnegie
10-2—interfraternity ball, Grand Ballroom, Hotel William Penn. 
Saturday—10-30—Radio code instruction, Sergeant Dobbs—Tower room, Machinery hall. • •¦...•2-6—M- M. Alumnae Scholarship bridge—Hotel S~henley
Dr. C. A. Edwards, professor of 
mietallurgy " and-:i)rlncipal of the- 
University College Swansea, Wales, w lectures on metals 1 union, Administration building, Thursday and Friday evenings.
The lectures, which will be open to the public, arc to begin at S:30 On the first evening,Professor Ed- ' urc on “Factors rowth of Metallic Effects of Crystal Size upon the Properties of Metals." The subject of the Fri- ining lecture will----------... 1 Mild Steel Sheets.”
Professor Edwards, a native of Canada, studied In England. In the metallurgical department ' of .the National Physical' laboratory at Feddington, Englai
the University oCManchester 
Mr. Edwards is in America to deliver' a scries of lectures tinder the- auspices of the American In­stitute of Mining and MetallurgicalEngineers.
18 Students 
Are^ Granted 
Scholarships
Two Night Students 
Named to Receiie . 
Tuition Prize
DR. P. S. BARTO IS 
AWARD CHAIRMAN
List of Awards Includes 
Grants to 12 Seniors 
And Four Juniors
¦ Eighteen scholarship appoint-: 
nients for 'the second semester1 
have, been announced by the Com-, 
miitee on Scholarships, Grants,! 
MsM- Prizes, Dr. P. S. Barto, chair*-
The Alexander J. Wurts Memo­rial scholarship, established , In 1932 by Elizabeth R. Wurts,: awarded annually to two students- in the Department of Electrical' Engineering, was awarded to John B. Rice ’35 and John SIngel ’36/'
1929 by the grad-.)epai..................Ing and Metallurgy.. The Grant Hubleÿ scholarship' established In 1925 .by Mr. and' Mrs. Ernest H. Holzworth, given;
lurgy, was awarded to Lawrence’ K. Jetter ’36. ¡.The Women’s Scholarship Or-' ganlzation awarded scholarships to Helen M. Bruce ’35 and Clarlnda Perrott ’35 of the College of Fine Arts and Helen M. Sickenberger ‘35, and tb66 Svlrbely ’36 of Mar-' garet Morrison.Jane E. Miler ’35, Margaret Mor­rison, aDd Grace C. Sauer ’35,.Col*, lege of Fine Arts, received Car­negie Women’s Guild scholarships.The Cohen Fund scholarships es­tablished in 1930 by Carrie N. Cohen in memory of her husband,' Joslah Cohen, a trustee of' the In*
lege of Engineering; Oscar Hakmnn ’35, College of Engineer-, ing; \VI\llnm It. Stone, and Earl Wild, night school, College of Fine
Female 'Collège ASHociàtìòn 'écliói- arship; James W. Herron, Jr., '35, Colege of Eng.
Music Dept. Offers 
Daily Programs
Each Mouduy, Wednesday and Fri­
day the Department of Music will 
spousor it musical hour at 12:30 in 
Ixhlbition Room of tbe College 
of Fine Arts. Tbe hour will bo do* 
:oted 'to the pluying of the “Col­
lege Music Set” which was recent­
ly given to the institution by the 
negi6 Corporation. Ail sludcuts 
^n the campus and the gcueral pub 
: ure invited.
, This afternoon ot 1:30, Paul Af- felder'’36, Dopartnient o£ Muelo. will present a fifteen minute .cello virogrant, and on Thursduy at i2:30 Karl Wild will preseut a half hour piano recital with Annetto Roseu- accoutiiarylng on a second piano. Both programs will be held Exhibition Room.
Margaret Probst ’37, celloist, 111 appear as guest urtiet with Marshall Bidwell at the free organ r'ecltul at Carnegie Music hall Sat­urday evening at 6:30.
Rabbi Speaks; 
C.A. Sponsors 
Today’sChapel
Service Will Be Held 
In Little Theater 
This Morning
Printing .Lecture 
Scheduled Today
DeWitt Patterson "Will Dis­
cuss Rotogravure Process
Mr. De Witt Patterson, general manager of The Rosonow Company of Chicago, will present a free lec­ture on Rotogravure processes at 3:30 this afternoon in Room 251 Industries Building.Mr'. Patterson is chairman of the Educational Commission- of the In­ternational Association of Printing House Craftsmen. He Is a graduate of the Chicago .Academy of Fine Arts, a writer of many articles on gravure color engraving, and color printing^ and Is a photo-engraving code authority.-
People You Ought to Know...
By.Clifton P. Boutetle ,
John Richmond,^Puppet Editor-....—
When a fellow has been, aroünd Carnegie for four years 
he ought to have formed ft few opinions about this institution 
of ours. Jolmny Richmond, editor of the Puppet, has formed a 
l\eadful.' And what’s-bettér yet he isn’t afraid to make 'ihem 
public.
In the first place editor John takes his task of writing ahumorous magazine very seriously ?—;----------------------. —He labors Industriously for four weeks putting out the “monthly (pertinence of Carnegie Tech; '
he swears up and down that Drag-if the finest organiza- (ions on the campus.
Some claim that Dragons control
hot air
in Cleveland Heights, Ohio.
- “Qs«6orship -oi college . publica­tions - is obnoxious." is the way John Richmond sums up his opin­ions on this subject. He admits that the average college magazine is low down but he maintains that the editor, hot the censors, should set the standard. “A. Kood editor won’t run a' clicap type "Ofpubllea-
He wants tv know why the Pup­pet jokes are censored- while- the Tartan’s Skibo Hobo prints many a sbadv paragraph.
Johu' Richmond is a Dragon, one of the vice presidents in fact, and
how tillsU'ols Council. The reason Dragons seem to do everything jjv Couucil is that they are the only members who aren’t afraid of sponsibillty or afraid to say what
tltude toward tbe senior honorary. “We don’t nialie money in our ac­tivities,” he says, “hi fact* we-have lost .money this year. We. sponsor 'the various dances in Thistle Hall for' the'benefit of the. entire'stu­dent body.”
Yes sir, John-will stick by the Dragons- .thru thick and thin .and his reasons hold water.
Local problems', of student gov- criimer.t h&vo -eaugkt hie- imer-sat.
ready to niove the Punnet i Brown House any time.
There.is no aninioaity between tho.Puppet and Tartan, the Puppet editcr.JbfiJiev£s.i./j.We;flJfty..rijj..i.hP Tartan at times, but as., a rule we mlcd our own business.”•John Is the president of Teck-
Iy .editor of a coll^gq-comtc \ heads a.: religious fttbrg&nlzaUon the same time. •
Dr. Solomon Freehof of the 
Rodef Shalom Congregation will 
deliver the address at chapel serv­
ice today. 'The service will be 
held in the Collège of Fine Arts 
. 11:30 this morning.
Miss Wilma Moiae of the De­partment of Music, will play n, violin solo from Bach entitled “Air n the G String.” Matthew. ITrey 111 accompany Miss Méise on the
The service today Is In charge of the Student cabinet ' of the Christina Association and the two 1 fraternities of the Hebrew faith, Beta Sigma Rbo and Tau Delta Phi.- These groups ask that
Ì:30 as formerly t
Summer Plans 
Announced
Session Begins June 17th, 
Terminates Aug. 9
The program of courses for the 
eighteenth consecutive Summer 
session has been arranged, A pre­
liminary announcement giving thò 
numbers, the names of the courses, 
and the names of the instructors is 
the press. The regular 
Summer session catalogue will bo 
available aoot&. March 1.
College of Engineering, 
the courses included in the eight 
weeks’v^rogram, June 17 to August 
.................... \ fre-
college, and which are in greatest demand during, the Summer ses­sion. In ' this group are matite* inaticsK English, general chemistry, physics'/ mechanics, drawing' "anci' descriptive geometry, economics, commercial law, industrial history, psychology and. related courses, eight weeks thè equivalent of semester's work may bo ac .cgmj&liaheck. __ _____________
Science Colloquium 
Will Meet Thursday
Another one of tt scries of set­tee colloquiums will be held at 11:30 Thursday morning in the Faculty room' Of the Carnegie
ulty.-Prof. W. 11, Work, head of the Department .of Electrical Engi­neering, will speak on tbe subject: ‘‘Experimental Determination ot the Electrical Properties of Bl- Mettallle Conductors.”,A luncheon will follow the dis­cussion.
M. M. Bridge 
Will Feature 
Fashion Show
Alumnae to Sliow New 
Fashions at Major 
Yearly Functions
8 M. M. SENIORS 
WILL ACT AS AIDES
Tables Reserved, for $3.00; 
Proceeds Will Be Used 
For Scholarships
A style »how in which, students, 
alumnae, and several children of 
alumnae will model spring fashions 
will be a feature of the Margarot 
Morrison Alumnae Scholarship 
Bridge to be held next Saturduy 
afternoon In the Hotel Schenley 
from two until flvo o’clock.
Tables are $3.00. Reservations may be mod« through Helen Mur­phy, 6673 Hobart £' - - -and facultySlndonts attendmnko reservations with Lenore Read In tho graduate man< ager’s office, Gymnasium./ 
Students In Fashion Show Eight Margaret Morrison stu­dents have been selected to take part in the XutOuon display. They are Margaret Watters '36, Mary Nichol ’35, Norabello Gordon ’3C, Ruth Weller - ’37, Brlta Moeller ’3C, Margaret Fitzgerald ’37, Mar­tha Salisbury '35, and Agnes Ci
Harriet Mprgatt ’22, and Alberta Greene Redonbnugfr ‘14 will be the ulumnao models. Children of mem­bers of tbe olnmnae ' association who will model children's fashions are Suzanne, daughter of Jane Caldwell Harrold '12, president of the association; Betty Jane, daugh­ter of Helen Logan Bradshaw ’15; Marilyn, daughter of Rachel Mnglll iml James M. Thorpe,
Martha Demins, president of the Margaret Morrison t will, head a group ot will serve as - * eludes Mary Moore, Clara Hall, Catherine Conti. Haddock, Helen gickenber-
The scholarship bridge is the
association has been • working ,to make scholarships available to de­serving sttifienlB'ol the Margaret Morrison college. The first echol. arshlp was awarded from the pro ceeds of a Hallowe’en party. Later
Theta Tau Elects 
Officers for Year
Robert McMaster Is New 
Head of Honorary Org.
Nu chapter of Theta Tau elected and installed the foiowing officers for the current year: Robert C.McMaster ’36, Regent; John C. Latham ’36, vice regent; Walter F. Applegate ’36, scribe; Albert R.’36, corresponding secr£-
ù* Pioif. John M. Dan­iels, treasurer.After the Installation services, the new officers appointed the fol­lowing committees: notices—John E. Born ’35 and Melvin Morrison I '36 ; by-laws—Evans W. Cheeseman
Carnegie 
- Tartan 
QuarterHour
. T^te program of the Tartan Quar* ter Hour ac. .7:15 tomorrow eve­ning includes the following:Helen Jayne will sing “Fair Th««-WeH:-AnrrabeUe,-”and-Blasie- 
the Moon/*
pla*no duet GueBts artists on tomorrow night's program will be Mildred.Barrick.. and ...Thelma ..Schnee. In....play entitled “Child Modern.” Both
directed by John Wilcoff. a' former student In that department.This program is-arranged. nouDced. and directed by Carl
iencichard ' Çr Ltghtcap J36, and Robert- W. Cariseli ’35; and schol­arship áwards—John Born '35,
Jack Miles’ Orchestra 
Plays Friday Night at 
ïnierfràternity Ball
Leads Grand March
Annual Ball Will Be Held 
In Hotel Wm. Penn 
Ballroom, 10 to 2
PRICE IS CUT TO 
$3.25 PER COÜPLE
F. McKelvcy, Pitt Co-ed 
Lend Traditional Grand 
March at Affair
Frederick R. McKclvoy *36, gen­
eral chairman, who "will lead the 
grand march of the Interfraternlty 
Formal Friday evening.
Drama Dept. 
Offers Matinee 
Thursday 3:30
Presentation Celebrates 
150lh' Anniversary 
Of C. Lamb
For the celebration of the hun­
dred nnd firilcth nitnlversiiry of 
Charles Lnnib this month, his 
piny, ‘‘The,. Pawnbroker's Daugh­
ter," will bo revived by the De­
partment of Drama at a matinee 
in the 3Utdib theater of the Ad* 
inlniVt’ratldh' ¦birllding-'' nt !3;30‘ on 
Thursdny. No tickets are required 
for admission.
The program, which is under tho supervision of Prof. Chester M. Wallace, will Include two scenes from Schiller’s "Mary Stuart" and an original ploy l>y Barry Mulligan '35. Mr. Barry's piny is a comedyWllOi
Professor Wnllfu nmtlc composition.
The plnys arc being directed by
Turkle, Dorothy O'Connell, Vir-
Homer Hull. William Davis, Robert Gordon, Milton Gold-
Claire Robinson, Georgia Taylor,
Juck Milos i und his Band ot 
Buods, a 15-piece aggregation, have 
been secured to pluy - for the lntor- 
frateroily Ball which takes place 
Friday evening from 10 lili. 2 in 
the Grand Ballroom of . the Hotol 
William l>enn. Tho price of tlcb- 
tu liftB been reduced to $3-25 per.
Frederick R. McKelvey, gcnoral halrntnu1 of the bull, and Martha
grand march. Mis» Pcnrce Is a member of-tho Delta Doll» -Delta sorority.
:k Miles has the distinction ot being tho only man to ever leuyo
al was connected with the outlU >r ilvo- years.-
In collaboration with Carmen .omlinrdo, Jack Milos wrote the optthir song, "Coquette.” It Is In­teresting to know thiit no illrfoollng
ncctlon with the outfit 
The Miles Band of Bands has playod tho Holloywood Gardens in •Now York City, the Gronado Cafe in Chicago, the Book-Cadilac Hotel.;
and Lotus Gardens in Cleveland. Juck Mlles-and his or-, hestra wore n- sensation among nlght-cliib-goórs, ‘r according !,'tò'T Cleveland nowepaper writers. - 
Banners of tho various fraterni*., tho campus will make tip
his fraternity.;.han.iw^Jh:ithje^Jiy.-.V.; office' by Friday noon.
consists' dE Frederick ir MoKelvpyV '86. clinlrnmn. Alpha Tau Omegal' frnternlty; Eugene Treanure '35, Theta XI fraternity; and L. Roger:: Burke ’36, PI Kappa Alpha friter?. vlty. * ^ '
Pitt Art Department 
¦ Presents French Films
At 8:30 this evening, the Dc- A«iri,mccst of Fhro Arlu- of. the* U-ivt- verslty of Pittsburgh is 'present­ing two French motion pictures lu room 817 ot thc^Cathedral of
and- fllmed 'hy • Salvatore-Ballv-who prize In the last Interna-
National Honorary Probes 
Student Opinion oh Education
Tau Beta Pi Circulates Questionnaire to Members; 
Will Tabulate Results, Make Recommendations 
To Administrators; Questions Timely
A questionnaire has been pre*pared by student members ot the Massachusetts Institute of Tech­nology chapter of Tau Beta Pi, na­tional engineering honorary frater­nity, for- the purpose ot Investigat­ing,’ on a ’ hatlonai ‘scale;' studfctit* opinion on the present-day methods of engineering education.
The questionnaire has been sent
hlch may result in definite improvement of the methods- used. The recommenda­tions will be addressed to college administrators :
will be accepted as a valid analy* sis of present conditions.
Questions Restricted 
The questions have been
tor, and are divided • Into' seven -general heads. (<Study procedure” questions - make up one group. These ask the student to show his preference-.In the tvpes. -of home, problems that may be . given. In
and importance of engi­neering text-boks.
A second group of questions .covers, . ."Instruction, .procedure.’' Preference In the methods of con­ducting class-room recitations are tio be established by. questions on the desirable size of recitation sec­tions.¦ Teaching ‘Qualifications
Another question asks how often quizzes shoutd be given, and: the
Another group "ft lentation of the professional field." Tho student shows the factors that influenced his choice of profession.
He is also'asked whether, or not he 19 satisfied with the opportuni­ties for professional guidance of*
the different items used In puting term grades, and- If thinks there: is an over-emphasis on.grades.
Alumni Will Hold 
Sixth Annual Fete
Local Clan Plans Luncheon; 
Phila. to Hear Duchin
Saturday, March ft, will mark0 slxfli annual celebration, of .' AcroBS-the-Conllnent Clan day,.the.early meeting of all Carnegie' alumni. Tlis Pittsburgh chapter;’;only one of the natlon-wldd' chain of Carnegie ulunini groups: who are making arrangements. for . that day. Plans have been made luncheon to bo held on the , Carnegie cnmpue at one o'clock.. . The price of tickets will not ex­ceed one dollar. •• v-:
Notice lias been received from . luhtdvlphia chattt&i’ <oC a dinner." party for alunini i
the occasion will be furnished'by: Dublin. Doctor Watkins,-/ acting president of Carnegie, will . be the principal speaker. Ari- ¦noimc«ments—of-this- affair- haye -. already been made in tho TechlteV'1 alumni publication. :
Carnegie Clan day is the one/.day of the year when Carnegre v.
' renew contacts • and.
Masonry Instructor 
Represents Carnegie
of the Housing Committee. It Is* the business of this committee.-to- study various methods of house- * hulWlnft-^iie -la-'CoiKrot&i-.espsei»-; ally those which can be construct- : ed at a low. cost.An example of this type ot house., is the house which is- being bnllt : by day nnd -night students BpeciaW izlng in construction for. Exhibi­tion Night, April 2«. This house is;.: conditioned and consists: vof,-..
ure. The cost of the little.-. ^.. creta.-home ifl. $4 200 and two rooms may be added as a second:-., story without • detracting from Its.:-, appearance. The house ie being,. built under the direction of-, -.wil-iir liam J. Moore. ’35. and Mr C. •: Larkin."
DORMS HOLD OPEN-HOUSS--
Th* freshmen women s dormlto'r- les- Birch and Laurel halls, .win hold open bouse tomorrow, after- jioon from four to six o clock. :¦ treshmente .will be served; and ^e.tu* dents are Invited. -

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN; TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1935
|arhe <£atue<Jie 3Tartatt
PHONG MAYFLOWER : Alter Office Hour* Cai 
Edltor-ln-CMcf ——-------------
yognp
.Published. weekly durin lergrodnatcsof whvhod-b fred in the Pittabureh r
EdUor-in-Chlei .
:Kvm Edllor----Sports Editor....
HCRA* Editor—.*-----COPY EDITOR: Ruth Gutaîson.
IDHIOK EDITOBS: W.U„ lut £££•
ulse MeLxner, Rosemary Piere«,
¦JULIAN F. MUNSTER_________ROY M1NET____HAROLD J. BAER______JEROME HANSON___MARGARET GRIFFIN.DUDLEY D. PENDLETON
'• REPORTERSLewis Bnan, »¦ . Lord. Albert«
j’art. Marcella 
Toby Ciww. Louise r. Dorothy Bwlh, 1
ibcle.
a Diade, 
slngton.
leech t
Mulligan, *Addlwn GilmoreSPORTS STAFF:Edwin MulllRBu,Eumene Fergucoa.
BUSINESS STAFF: Joo AUon,
Layton' Keith McCulcbeon, Donald I Moscow.CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert Ralston Gunfaa, Assistant s^,^®
Oust FavoritismC
oncessions at carnegie are let oui
by Student Council under a method INr 
- TltlNSICALLY weak and fostered by. FAVOIV 
ITISM.The reason for tills, is obvious they are 
granted upon the mere presentation of a, peti­
tion without any definite,BASIS £or the award.
> The'facts:'' There are two remunerative concessions 
. granted by Student Council each year.
1. The Checking Concession.
The concession entails the responsibility • of 
: managing the checking booths at all social 
functions held on the campus. The tees col­
lected for checking coats, wraps, etc., are re­
tained by tbe concessioner.- 
' 2. The Bulletin Board Concession.
The- concession' carries with it the respon- 
. sibllity of seeing that notices of events of the 
student body and the administration • are ade­
quately' displayed on the bulletin boards 
throughout the campus.
•: Theoretically these concessions are open to 
AXL students in the Institute. They are ob- 
.tilned by petitioning Student Council for 
them.
Just exactly on -what basis they are awarded 
ia not clearly understood. The matter has 
.. neiver been put to a real test because the oc­
casion so rarely arises that jnore than ONE 
' petition ie received for each concession.
^ -A graphic illustration of how these ponces- 
! slons were handed out for thi3 year will, per- 
haps, disclose the weak points of the present 
..method and emphasize the need for a'' 
•'CHANGE.'
; '' . Last year, at thé Anal meeting- of Student 
r\ Council in May, prior to thé closing of school.
.(this was tÿie first meeting of the .newly èlect- 
fed : present Student Council) two petltlous 
.-were presented by two students, one for th-s 
- '^checking concession .and one for the bulletin 
•• Tboard- concession.
• •!;It'was obvious, at the outset, that these con-
Mcèôsions would bave to be granted to these 
-ypetitionera since it was the last meeting and 
Y;the matter had to be arranged before the end 
•’•’..‘»of that school year.
.¿-’They were so granted.
. .À few members of Council, who were totally 
HSinkware that these.concessiona'.evén existed, 
protested the action cn the following grounds:
\ 1. -There was' no publicity given out that
• these, concessions were about to be let, despite 
^ the. fact that they were supposedly open to 
. -the entire student body.
There was no basis for tbe award other 
than the mere presentation of a petition.
'v • ' It was apparent, too, that favoritism was be^ 
^£ri$i--'«x%ver&ed.smotf theso two'ia'eu:, wbo' bçteivs' 
.to.a group which is strongly represented in 
-3 V Student .Council, knew about ihe concessions 
r;:iwhereas about ninety-nine per cent of' the 
.••¦•-. .students were ignorant of. them.
. .. These objections were .raised. with tbe real-^ 
;,v ; Jzation that it was too late for them to ac- 
. ’complish their purpose. They were neverthe- 
'less brought up as an expression of DISSENT 
:f .:::ànd DISAPPROVAL. .
’fO:• This was not the FIRST time the. concea- 
¡.vt^ëlons were handed out in this manner—but 
:;V '\it should be the last.
•;. • ‘ How can Student Council remedy the situa-
t’ion?; Enforce the present ruling by notifying 
,v i.- the student body of these concessii 
:vÿ, V In. that case the Council office would be'be- 
-'^ '•'¦sieged, with hundreds of petitions, which, of 
;ÿf;-:”COUT6e, would alleviate nothing for as long 
v' as there Is no definite basis for granting a 
'¿^.'''concession—favoritism is bouud to prevail,. 
r .;'i^:It;would be foolhardy to cling to the exlst- 
for even were It carried out properly, 
¿i'-Sit^Would still;be.essentially a poor one.._ 
•'!.'j^^-We 'realize. it is weak — and soi we must 
!,",­.—b.C -Hem
Sl^^The;problem'is this:'
'On: what basis, shall these two remunerative 
.'• .concessions.he-grantel to the students?
--Our solution-Is-.this:
¦^'•¦ ^'Everjr yya.T' a 'iarge perctsnxage- or students; 
«^because of pressing, fluancial.straits, are per*
¦ ^v-inltled bv.^the. administration to take notes 
--üfrom lhç> gcfcools so. that they may have the 
^¿-burden of.tuition-eased for:a while.- .
. h i^The admlnlstrktion has generously seen- fit 
'-'¿itû^lend monoy to; needy -students; to help-them 
.•>’àdbtâiD'-an: education; . > . •
»•I. i’, :'svHece.-.is an 'opportunity : for Student Council 
j-> to'flid flom* of then« student* to acquire their.
èdiftûtlon
^.p-iiWèfBUÇgeU-thftt the. entire matter be hand- 
.if îedjover-to the'Deairs -offlc^-the concessions 
bended out at the discretion: ofthe Dean 
ivT^fafle^îtor nôedv. students,;.on a ,basisv;of:scbpl.
£n|ip].or however bis good judgment diet p
'AWèÜMlIeye^l^là'a^lmpl^ FEASIBLE;
inters’ Row.
AND THE WALLS CAME TUMBLING DOWN By Peter Molyneaux(Ed. Note: Peter Molyneaux, once Edito­rial Director of the Fort Worth f
in a small town Jo New York asking what he might do to further the cause of tariff reform. I have received many similar letters within the past few months, but I single out. s In particular because tbe young i
It would have to be an educational or* g&nlzatlon built very much along the' lines of Cobden's Antl-Corn-Law League which oper-
As a young man of 23, 1 realize too well my own limitations for such a part. . But tills should not keep me from being -willing
humble capacity."'
I am prompted to quote this letter because' there can not be the slightest question aboutit« ....................... - ‘
_ ni to write
I- decided to make this young man’s letter tbe subject of an article because of my reac­tion to two other expressions which have come to my notice since receiving It. One of these 3. passage in an article by Secretary of
tences of an address by Dr. Benjamin M. An­derson, Jr., economist of the Chase National Bank, delivered before, the Boston Chamber of
> misdirected. “If this group Is in earn­est about a permanent solution of the prob­lem," Secretary Wallace writes, “It should neglect no opportunity to make its Influence felt in demanding that this country permit In-
It should appeal constantly to all sources of
basis.”Tho opening sentences of Dr. Anderson’s Boston address are very, much to the. point here. “Washington,” he said, "Is today sub- ject to 'terrific pressure from many • gro.ups, each seekJng to get from the Government and from the rest of the country something of spe­cial advantage to itself. Any one group, if It alone could-get what It wanted, might better its position, but, when many groups all suc­ceed-In getting what they want, each at the expense of the rest of the country, difficulties obviously arise for all of them. We are going to solve our economic problems, Instead of merely deferring them. only;'.if;,we can aee.'the whole country,'and the interrelations of the various elemejita of the;.country, and only. If. we can see the country’s interreiations with' the rest of.-ths “orld.’.I think it will be obvious why I related these two expressions to this young man’s let­ter. Secretary Wallace’s suggestion to the cotton shippers, If acted upon, would only add another’ pressuve group to the general scram­ble at .'Washington, and not a very powerful one frbm the standpoint of political Influence. Indeed, the whole tone of Secretary Wallace's arLicle indicates that he has become convinced that other pressure groups are too powerful to be overcome. “Unless ways can be found to increase America’s imports,’1 he writes, the recovery 'of cotton exports
this to be done.” In other words, the pres:
'akening of the man In the street and or the‘folks at the forks of the creek, can be expected to bring about a changé. And unless such an upheaval of the pçople can be brought about, I.ani afraid-we are'.sunk:I am going to attempt to -launch a fighting organization devoted to the task of arousing the people of the United States (not merely of Texas or of the South) to the support of a program of international cooperation, a pro- gram' whicli wiU'inclùde the'lowering ot trade, barriers ' of all kinds, the settlement of the intergovernmental. debts’ once-and for all, the stabilising^ of international exchange, and the doing of- whatever, else is necessary to un­shackle, and restore international trade, .and thereby make; possible thé restoration _of theprosperity and’ resumption oFThe pi-ogr the United States| .- This-article, then,'is. in tbe nature of a. call to everybody who feels as this young man does that.‘‘the need for-an organization of this sort is great” I want to hear from ordinary, every-day people, people, 'who have no “.vital stake” in the-matter,' such as Secretary Wal­lace says thf cotton shippers have, but who are concerned only about the general welfare of the people as a whole and of the country
* I deliberated considerably over this matter before deciding to make,this suggestion. Hav­ing made it, I propose to stay with it ‘until
weary, candle nodded
WUli .my every breath,With every
When euddenly-r-.I know not .how nor ^whence i
And hinted wondrous things. And, organ-toned, It stirred My melancholy soul,A6, half bedazed, I heard Its deep, iull-vlbrant roll.
My eyes were fixed Upon the candle flame.I stared, until it seemed ,To grow, wax large and bright. I fell—or else I HootedInto the growing brilliance That was the tiuy candle flame: Swiftly,Painlessly,My size was dwindling.Faster I went, and faster yet, — smaller,.
Of Incandescent carbon; Viewing madc&p molecules Til these; too, whiling,Grew,
And seeme<Revealing Intervals gigantic 
Betw.een the moving particles.
What is Being Said
brutality; It will remain a stigma on the ;Nas cult . and take Tank with . the unspeakable “blood. pnrge" of last Summer. Fuehrer Hit­ler Would have been'well advised, if he places any value on the opinion-of the world beyond the Reich's borders, to be chivalrous enough to -mitigate his women 6ples- punishment to life imprisonment or‘;tor: evolve some. other form of chastisement, less^-barbarlc than -.the spectacle just enacted in Berlln.r-The. Wash­ington Star., - ¦.
and : a fairness, .and a‘ receptiYenesa to idea» that ! don't think ever, happened before.Never bavé I raet men in publlc. life who were so indifferent to their own Interests that thev wouldn't accept willingly: and gladly ad- 'vlce: aind assistance' Ifom'academtc^meti -wTierc academic men had the means of making/them understand what they ^veTÇ talking. about— Raymond Moley.. -.
which "will put-.3Vthew money: -.involved.ito-. Its
the wheeling systemsOf stars, and And worlds.: I. stopped. .'
Around its central star—Around its blue-hot sun;Upon the small; globe’s surface stood
Stern-faced, and robed in black.I listened, as he spoke Unto h gathering
“If. you fail to heed the Work Of your saintly ancestors—Your forefathers, inspired, I say,By the Power which transcends all—if you
Molecule,Agitated particle, '
—MELVIN T. GILROY.
ISe t Egg
THE INTERSORORITY was a howge success, rated tbe top of 
tbe major dances so far . too bad the Dean wasn’t able to 
attend ... a lot of the boys kicked in with corsages for the 
gels . . . and boutonnieres for themselves . . . most of the 
old combinations were there , . . arm-in. arm were Reba and 
Goody, lviary Nichol and Torchy 'Dana, Chairman Mott^r and 
Neal Vinson, Mary. Hubley with a slightly dazed Bill Davis, Bea 
and Libby, Mary and Roger . . . Peg. Shultz and Kenny- Knapp 
are getting to be a habit . . . Polly, Rowles twice as charming 
as ever with ostrich feathers In bonor of something or other 
. . . Clara .Weller and Nancy Jones brought Johnny Davis and 
Jack Reese all the way from Washington In a snowstorm ... a 
couple dramats had girls with them , . . lotza people didn’t 
want to leave when it was over . . . Ed Mulligan had to be 
coaxed by a chaperon whom he called by her first name . . . 
no school last Friday, depend on good old George to be born on 
Friday Instead of Saturday like he was last year.
BREAKFAST was served afterwards by Blnnle Bothwell at her 
Edgewood' home . . . Jimmy Speyer played host in tails, top 
hat, and cane . ' . Juts Munster helped fry the sausages and 
cracked up his car on the way home . . . maybe It was the
On Second Thought
Dudley D.: Pendleton. Jr.
Dangerous Demagogy
voted 52 for, 36 against the reso­lution ,for adherence—se^ 
short of : tl?e
of the 40,000
partly respon* sible for lead-
President and.
TO SD8tiSt-3 „ '>“?'»)' D',demngo'gic Pendleton, Jr.
Charles E. Coughlin, pastor of tbe Shrine of the Little Flower and “radiorator” of no mean ability. Throwing reason to the.-wlnds Fa-
senators in- Washington to vote ¦W on the World Court with or without. Teseiwation.
Never before in tbe history of radio has any man except the President heltl.Bway regularly over so laTge an audience and never be^ fore except perhaps in Germany has any man used- the radio to such an extent as an instrument of personal propaganda.
Tried Political Seasoning 
..Five years ago Father Coughlin was a, relatively unknown priest' • broadcasting, afternoon addresses for children, and until he tried.sea­soning his tftlk with economics and politics, bis broadcasts brought little fame. However, as soon as he began to hit upon those subjects which were vllal to, the lives of the people, letters , began to pour in. and he . now receives..a greater volume of mail- than any other single person in the United States.-____
. .To handle hi^ enormous com. pondence. Father Coughlin hsfl- 
eluded in his $750,000 Shrine si. proof offices in which a r0rcT^ 145 stenographers handle than SO.flOn.rrinllBB
quicïi
upon uc how dreadful a Fratil' teln !b thia new proMgaQd/“* Ihe modorn radio has madu ble. Even Hearst in ui. Bcorchfog editorial has
supponitj
this relatively ignorant man i5 
“* it begins to da* dreadful » ®--an
either denouncing :
We begin to see how* Hitler fAeu the florid emotionalism of S speeches has roused a naliou. haps those who talk about the dy. 
gers of an impending fascism bana real basis for their fears.
Appe?ls to Prejudkee 
Here is a man whose views < economics could bear little eci tiny, whose statements reveal very definite intellectual weakoea and yet who can sway tu» massn by the cunning with Wbicb he at peals to their- prejudices. Man put him along with. Huey Long a the class of “Babble Rousere" at4
tho ridiculousness, of' i views.
.One of the latest schemes cojing from' the Shrine of the'LUQ Flower. Is the National League it Social Justice whose .purpose le tj establish a lobby in .^ashlogton |> bring pressure. to’ bear in support of Father Coughlin's, ideas. Ant»teresting cOmment^iy
mentioned^ in its sixteen 'planks.
The host that.can .be said of lib newest of doinagogs is a stalenu. from The New'RepubHc tbat."bt has shown .whtit .a.. Catholic pries
floor during the holidays . , ...but over the week-end the 6 
management awarded Slip-and Dolly Volkwein the grand'prize - 
for tbe best display of dancing In "an elimination’contest . 
net results: one large; loving-cup and two. free tlcketW £pr next 
week . . . some people certainly have a memory for faces!
THE COOLEST swimmer on the squad during Its recent 1 
journ abroad was Scotty CharleB, who, although only half .a lap 
behind the leading. Delaware.man,.took time out on his final 
turn to exclaim, “Quick,—which way did he go’!”
FEBRUARY 22, being ‘ George's birthday, “Hatchet-Man” Bou- 
telle decided to search the Lancaster thoroughfares for cherry 
trees. No result. He is donating his new and slightly used 98c 
ax to tbe PIKas for future use.
selection9 buying and preparation of 
the right kinds of Turkish tobaccos 
for 'making Chesterfield Cigarettes is 
a business in itself. . .
Handling Turkish tobacco' 
-—the-Ltggeti. & Myers modern ¦ 
factory at. Smyrna, Turkey.
VVTE have buyers in all the to- 
bacco markets of Turkey and-. 
;Greece, including Xanthi, .Cavalla? . 
Smyrna and Samsoun.
And at Smyrna Chesterfield 
has built the most modern to- ' 
bacco plant in the Near East.
Here the spicy, aromatic Turkish......
leaf is sorted and graded under the 
eyes of our own tobacco men.
Then it is put away to age in its 
own climate for two years or more 
to make it milder and better-tasting.
When you blend and cross-blènd 
the right kinds of aromatic Turkish 
tobacco with mild ripe home-grown 
tobaccos as we do in Chesterfield 
. you haye , . ,r___.. .....
the cigarette that’s milder 
the cigarette that tastes better
(ÇL it* avi.—
. MONDAT WEDNESDAY SATURDAY
LUCREZIA LILY RICHARD
• BORI PONS BONELLI
EOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHOBUS
9 P. M. (E. S. T.) —COLUMBIANETWORK
w RLEE -MhSDD ik Mmi ToMBb Co

---------------------------------------------------

? 'ÆgE' GA,^PGIg TARmW.)TUBSDAY, FÇBRPiMtY; 2$tVW35
tHEÆ
TUESDAY 1/a» ^ i
QUARTERBACK
r:BY JERRY HANSON
SkiboMermeri 
Visit iti East
THE} DUKES ARB OF UNDISPUTED RANKING'after having beaten 
tbe Mountaineer squadron. -The Carnegie cage season closes with 
the return game against; the Hllltoppers, In the Tartan gym a week 
from today. It should be a sell-out. it Is a home game this time, hb 
it's the Dukes' .turn to pay for It. Duquesne will he Idle from, now until 
llie game with Carnegie.
AND WE GET ANOTHER POP AT THE PANTHER this Saturday. 
Boys, put the scrtws on them! You certainly owe It to yourselves.
Dinger should add a straight jacket to the equipment In view of 
Max’s possible reaction this Saturday eve. He Isn't to be blamed for 
any violence he might exhibit, but it will be a good Idea to' be prepared
; may be* secured on Wednesday
THE NATIONAL -COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION rules, 
committee meeting, held in deep secrecy the week-end of February 16, 
passed on-the ¿934'fcotball rules almost without reservation—the first 
time thé rules-haven't been radically changed for à'following season 
jà thirty years!
Two minor ¡changes were deemed necessary by the committee:
1—To encourage ..the open. game, a -provision waB added to the 
dead hall -.rule, making; It perinissable for a runner still' on his feet, al­
though tackled,.to.pass or.kick until the whistle is blown. . .
2—The rule'providing that fouls committed by both, teams offset
each other is'amended, by .an exception, in case a punted ball is ille­
gally touched by the': kicking team'and a foul Is committed by oppo­
nents, the captain of thev-kicking teammay refuse the'Offsetting pen­
alty. .The ball then would belong. to the" receiving'team at thé-spot 
where it -was illegally touched. T v . :
The' rule, covering interchanging-of linemen and backs . ;waB .;clarI- 
fled by defining the'positions or. center, guards, and tackles as* those 
occupied by those players when they enter the game. Also,-the captain 
must designate,- upon the request of officials, the' posltion'-'-of his 
players. ,
BILL HOLIDAY SET A RECORD new to Carnegie when fié took the 
220 In 2:25 down at Delaware. The boys didn’t know who was winning 
until the last event of that' meet—which went to Delaware, giving them 
a two-point'lead over the-Tartans. They won-39-Î7. ,
MIKE RESTAINE WANTS IT TO BE KNOWN that his name is Res—, 
not tNhVm as it appeared in a boxing write-up last week. . Also, con­
trary to report, Mike finds himself eligible for boxing, having properly 
executed a re-exam.
GEORGE KAVEL,. CARNEGIE '33, and co-eaptaln of football • with 
“Hooks” Sample hae been made footbail coach, at.the Tyrone, High 
School, where he hae a new football stadium to break !n. George 
will ale» teach math and history next year.
Drop CloseDel.. Meet; 
Trounced by F. & M.
. Tho Carnegie swimming, team 
made its .eastern - invasion last 
week-end'and came back- with de- 
feals-ull the way around, yet own­
ing credit for a line showing. The 
University of Delaware swim 
squad, which completely white­
washed the Tartaus last year, bare­
ly managed to nose out the Plaid 
mermen 39-37 in tha final* event of 
the meet, Franklin and Marshall, 
boosting oue of the finest teams iu 
the east, retained the. title of East­ern' Collegiate' swimming cham­pionship ' by thoroughly tròuoclug the Skibos 49-26:
The Tartans met Delaware last Friday - -- - -
Mittmen Lose To 
Wash-Jeff Squad
'wisnewski, Kuicaz dinners 
In Close Decisions
The Carnegie boxing • team traveled to Washington, Pa., on last Wednesday to ;drop!a 5-2 de­cision. Although the Plaids' had little trouble in subduing the Pres­idents laBt year, several factors contributed to the/loss this year, chief of which ‘was an apparent; lack of conditioning. The Tartans, were handicapped by lack Of prac­tice during exam week..
Most of the decisions were fair­ly close, except that of Carnegie’i135 pounder, Krintzman, who for­feited. Wisnewski, who was fight­ing for the first time in varsity competition won his bout' handily.Shapira, who moved up from his regular position at 115-pounds, lost his match by a very close decision, and Tayton,-entered at: 145, held up well until he tired near the end. Captain Bill Kulesz .came through with a nice win, but It was-tbo late to help the score-much. Ely/ en­tered against the Captain of-the Wash-Jeff squad, rallied toward the end of the third round, after trailing the .first twor but he,.was unable to overcome the le’aid [gain­ed over him in the -first-of .the match. Boyd also dropped hta' de- clsion. Bill Beall; In a. no-deci­sion exhibition bout, turned-in a- very nice performance.;
.....The Jioxing..squan .mil: jnake- the¦ - ~ Sat-
Westem Maryland and-tied. Duke. The line-up .will see' Wisnewski ' at 115, Shapira at 126, :KrIntzman .or Beall at 135, Tayton at 145, Kulesz at 155, Ely at 166 and.Boyd:-at 175. 
Beall may he‘given the call Kiintiman in view of the showing that ha made in.lils-exhibition bout at W. and J.The loss last week served‘to get the boys fighting, and with the ben­efit of much more time to pre they should, be ready to'put;, bcliev exhibition by Saturday. Coach Ernie Sesto is working for a match with the Pitt team to be held In the Carnegie gym >15th of March.not schedule' Carnegie,- CoaclJ;0 e.xpccts:.-.to.get. .a'-:.re.tArp ;with W. and 'J. . ¦ ¦
I
 College Editors Outline 
• ' Student Opinions
—------ Continued From Pago 1 ------*honor . system. Phi . Beta Kappa, 
recognition of . women—were a: 
originated at William and Mary, said the editor, and "everyone ia.) looking to the future with confi­dence and high .hope.” •
-The problem of education In­terested* the' •: editors of » the. Uni-
with the desirability of and free college education.. He bi lieved that a college education should be granted t? anyone who de-
the educational plan, now. being used in the university, which has' become nationally famous. Under this plan any student may proceed as rapidly as he wishes. J The prir mary premise upon which the plan bas been formulated Is that stu­dents come to college to learn and. they are entitled to work, as. fast 'as they can. The professors guide but do not grade the. student^. .
'. The representatives of the -TJni- vevslty of Minnesota and Prince­ton chose as their subjects mili­tary'preparation inN the ROTC.
.... students ?'iake: education ously,” and resent, the'existence of the military .department. At pres­ent the government disapproves of ;the -presence of voluntary.-drill at. Minnesota,, and. Its position' Is un­certain. Editor Smith of Princetoi
Scots ‘Win Here; and Abroad; 
Take Panther’s Trail Next
Prexies, State 
Àrè Defeated
in thatond and thifrd. Wilson of Dela­ware took- the diving. Bright and lestley taking second and tblrd or Carnegie. ' Delaware took first a the 440, with Charles swimming in' easy second 'and' Dennison squeezing out ar third for Cdrneglel Holiday placed first in the -160 backstroke, and Boutelle supple-
broast stroke,: with Cullen third. Delaware took entury :free. style, '• and Derdyn
Scots in Lancasteiby the F. & M. swim aggré-- i. The,: Tartans', —ere tired. the,.previouB. Jrip and
ition-staged by the- F; & M. champs who hâve two' poo! and-college ecords. in the 220-yard free style,
Encounter with State 
First of Two Away
The. Tartan floor squad has ibeen 
off ou.another winning streak dur­
ing, the past week! From a totat of two Encounters, the cagers have chalked up two well-deserved-vic­tories, against Wash-Jeff and Pen'u State'.;; ;- - / •••••>.
The first of these, over W. & J., came last Tuesday night on the Tartan's home floor. . Although tbe Prexies had fallen easily before the Plaid attack' in their previous encounter, they were rated a possi-
concessioni looked', as if it might have been well- founded from the looks of the. Red and Black outfit during.the, first,half of the.game, o__ liv'-..- playing good, fast
j leading the Tartansfor theyball, ...at the half:' Soon, after thè gun in the second period; the Skibos caught up and; from then, on the lead passed back and'forth until it was finally definitely annexed by the Tartans. The score at the final 
gun was 40-31-_'v 
On Saturday, night, the squad et Penn State at .State College, > the .first of. his was another victory for. the Tartans, and a rather easy one at that,- After the first, few minutes' of play, ...in which :the lead was jockeyed ..around, the . SkiboB led until ..the end of .the. game.. At-the end of" the first -half they leading 20-13, and continued keep the . advantage .almost
400-yard ..relay..stroke, and tbe
Intramural Leads 
Still Unimpaired
Theta X’», Belts, Kappa Sigs 
And McGillites o ¿Top
days.. Theta XI, retained' its supremacy in the National League by defeating Beta Sigma Rho-17-
: all .their speed at times tn keep; beyond: the reach of'the plucky Beta Slgs.Theta. Xis are undoubedly the resentatlves from the National League and at this time appear be the best to cop the intramural Championship. In the American League,' the ' league-leading McGill Hall ' -fivd* remained idle, although their hold on- first .place strengthened by the defeat of the second place Beta Theta Pi
¡ leaders of the Federal League,
. ry confidei peating‘.their success of the. last intramural -; season.- . The Kappa Sigma quintet, which shares the leadership of this league with their neighbors from Clyde street, stand in the way of the Delts and their
Women’s Athletics
| MARGIE GREEN
Last call for basketball practice: This, week the schedule has beer 
narrowed down to t’
' him, the . R.OTC is merely a i- Of,'sprcadlng;Av^r propagan-
perform 1 the great functions of training1 minds that . can combat prejudice;;.;:.;
players who found themselves'In tap danclng',class at the usual 3:30 practice 'perigd •' .last Wednesday; md^hen; tbr vaT>' tUeclimax, -attei waiting:'around for a whole hom for.the regular 4:30 period, to have it' develop into an Art.School gym/class!
Tartanslnvade 
Pitt Territory
Wary Feline Prepared 
To Meet Revengers
Carnegie cagemen will be. .given 
chance to put the bavs around 
| the Panthers this Saturday' p. m. 
Tbe Scotch laddies will be at high 
pitch iu their return engagement 
rith tho crew from the other side 
of Forbes street, for the memory of the.’ game ' earlier in ' will spur them on even territory.- It will be : thut the Carnegle-Pitf in the Plaid gyhinas most excltlug tussle c
Ted Riggs, brilliant .captain of
Rifle Team Again ' 
Makes Good Show
Polytech,
The Tartans wore tied with thè John« Hopkins shooters, but Car
those ot Penn State nnd Alabama were 1,388 and 1,887 respectively. 
This Saturday at 12 noon Car-
Night School, in’ four hours of shooting on the Carnegie-range.
The women's varsity again-shot a nigh. perfect score, in' defeating
The Panther Is u. wary and sly
Tartan Freshman 
Defeated by State
Buzz Greenberg High Scorer 
• 'In Hard Fought -Battio
. ^Ithougli. Carnegie’s varsity was;.,';'; 
successful- in their basketball en*'.;: 
gagemenI wllh Pena' State' at*Stnt( , ; 
College, Pa., the Tartán, plebt. 
squad did not fare so well in 
game jwltU the Lion yearlings. ar : 
Pittsburgh. • The boya from' State-- ; 
College, Pa., defeated. the ladt 
from Schenley Park to the tune 
30-26. The game.'was a.fast-ani ;: 
thrilling one and was never In th<-- 
bag uutll the final whistle was., 
blown. "Buzzie” Greenberg stat-;.; 
red for the Tartan Youngsters;- 
scoring 11 of his team’s 26 points".' 
^bis plucky, little fellow, is full . of ..fight and . very speedy and . should prove a valuable Addition, to . Onv Hannum's varsity nost-'
to overthrow them in their own hauntB. Pitt hns not nodded to Car­negie for 19 straight games, and 20.
slstently. throughout the . rest ot the game. The final'tally was-54- 35, with Stocker, and Smith., of State; -tied for high scoring • hon­ors with 13 each, and Rigg nnd §pisak following wltli 11 nnd . 10 •espectlvely.
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS $14.95 to $75.00
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO,

---------------------------------------------------

THE 
CARNEGIE 
PLAID
e Editorial' Boari of the I
VESSELSStaff:.INGRAM
Editor Withdraws
Historical Highlights
— of —
I Night Student Council
C. A, Blochinger Resigns As 
President of Nighit CouncilI
Student Lectures 
Urged by Council |
Connecticut College Systei 
Approved by Studènts
Alumni News
I Need for Recreational 
Activities is Apparent I
i-•willl The Carnegie Plaid, I wiah : extend my' thanks to all those who have: in any, way aided mo in my efforts to publish tlie night student . section of the Tartan. To the Stall especially, I -wish to extend my •wholehearted thanks for their .efr, forts and cooperation during my I 
:• term as editor. . I
Trusting that the PisiS will con*j . tinue to enjoy the highest success v and that the support of the student • body .will continue, I remain,
. Yours very truly,
H. E. McGANNON.
;¦ The above letter, announcing Mr.' McGannon’s severance of hila con* i riectlon with the Carnegie Plaid, was received with sincere regret by . every member of the staff. Mr. Mc- 0: Gannon has won the respect of all ' concerned for the unprejudiced manner In which, he conducted the . operation'of thie section of the Tartan. In. the publication of a- college paper, decisions must be i\ made which call for the greatest- tact' and thoughfulness, and this tact and thoughtfulness wei1 brought forth upon numerous occa- aiona by Mr. McGannon. The school wilt find It dIIDcult to re-| place the capability and experience& ©f,.the former editor.
v-. --Mr.' McGannon has served the2 Plaid for five years, holding thb ; vart<iU0 posiU.onB of Associate Edl- <.-tor/ News Edltcr and finally Editor. k His work is. held in high esteem <i.and'hlB.aseoclates on the paper, and ; the several Student Councils underwhom , he has held his positions r unite.' in praise of the able manner i. Jn Which he has conducted his. du- t ties/ . Mr. McGannon threw himself ¡'¿whole henrtedly into the task of ^.making the Plaid as excellei *. publication as circumstances would [ ¦penalt and has conceived and ex- ¡"/ecnted several plans for the better*' ii . nient of the Night School paper and t.-to 'increase' the ' interest of the| j; (night .students in .their paper, 
j:ThelNight .Student. Council hasl not yet appointed a successor to ¿¿JAr. McGannon but, until they do ¿'.. make ah appointment, the. staff will r on the good’work
As announced in last week’s is­
sue of the Plaid, arrangements have 
J been made to present-a history-of 
the extra curricular activities' of 
I the night students and the Night 
I Student Council. The plan adopted 
I is to have the data appear, weekly | in the columns of the Plaid and the} 
Installment of the series co 
I sequently will begin in this issue.
. Away back in - the ^ays of tho 
night school when Carnegie was 
Carnegie Technical 
Schools, there were night students 
attending classes who were of the 
opinion that strict attentloi 
class recitation and study
ys the best or happiest situa- 
, but that some outside activi­ties of a social nature were deBlra-| ble and even necessary in.order| | that the atudeuts would not becoiinch engrossed with the tech* I nical and theoretical side and thus ‘ become slaves to learning. Itknown, and established | fact, that' one can becoi much absorbed In a field and, when this condition obtains, the individual becomes one sided. The students on the local mpua were exposed to this eitua- .. in. as our/ courses - of study have J always been^very heavy and exten­sive, hence it'was that some of the| ulght ntudents "sought recreation by engaging in-extra curricular actlvl* Uesv
Following along this line of thought, these night students par­ticipated in school as well aB group activities. The latter' form consisted of functions centering around the different courses of study which offered on the campus, n 2bS bond was tablished which existed for sev- years. These gatherings ot always of the same nature, mes they were'smokers, thei again they were class dinners
Grimm Chosen 
To Fill PI ace
I Retiring Qflicer Has Won ] 
Respect of Students
SÎ.OCHINGER
Council Dance is . 
Successful Affair
Mr. C- A. Blochinger has recently 
resigned as president of the'Night | 
Student Council. His resignation 
was totally unexpected, and a dis­
tinct u^set to the expectations of
Thursday, February 21, with-the re­sult that the Council accepted Mr. Blochinger's resignation. The loss of I bis leadership In the Council was regretted by the remaining mem-1 bers, and it is felt that the student body has lost the services of an- | able leader. • .
At this same meeting, the'Night Student Council, in virtue of the
discussing the possibility of hold-, ing lectures for the benefit of the night students, but action has been deferred until next year. In the meantime it i^ight be profitable consider a system which is In I Connecticut College where | students’ clubs, growing out oi spheres of activity from dra-
Dollar Day. Donations 
Tho. alumni office wishes to ac­knowledge the following contrlbu- tions to the Carnegie Dollar^Day Fund. 'The drive 'opened in No­vember and continued until Feb­ruary.first. Money goes to the en-
I nomics Tiave come to play a [lildcant part in theintellectual ocial life of that college.
Many of the clubs extend the op-1 I portuniUes of the class room in-:| informal way. Discussions,, wbibe restrained in the class because of the limitation of | 'time, have free rein‘in the clui). Faculty members are frequently | invited to participate In the dis­cussions, but the club? out faculty supervision, with tho programs and projec's - being |
[Reggie Held to Blame 
For Inclement Weather
Am i burning up? Me and Jnpe 
Pluvlus are pulling clinkers, and* J 
account of .the social com­
mittee. You see; it «was this way 
I went over to see Jiipe (He’s the 
guy that runs the water works) and 
lie asked me .to keep an eye 
things' while lie went for a w 
around the coal pile, I stayed, a 
Is my natura^ inclination, got to 
messing around. 1 
happened, for this was last 'Friday 
night. Now the. social committee
! messing up the weather.I tend to find out how those guy;> much down here, so prepare Tor ow of a most succulent.nature.
A. C. GRIMM
Decorations and Music Give 
Patrons Much Pleasure
I endeavor to have the I ;-interesting and- Infor: t has been' previously
Eligibility Rules
>m‘e time ago the Night Student' . Connell adopted a list of rnles.gov- ;.;ern]ngthe eligibility, of .students to
; fect for approximately one. year bnt . as faf as thc student body is aware . their/enforcement at the' time of i tatcing office and during' Ibe term ?qf;the pffice is left almost. Entirely r.upv toC the individual concerned. ,;Would .it not be a good Idea for! '. Council to'appoint ,a committee to
.they-'begin their duties'
NIGHT LIGHTS
.. Tony Mas, an enthusiastic '‘ham- broadcaster, had his-radio- stolen > from-his car-the other day. and . of the dallies printed a little piece . aboutit ... Al Schneider, realized his'boyhood ambition when the in- •. stoctor in Electric Lab. permitted ¿vilm to nin .the street car contrlv*• • ance • they have down there-----”- vtafe holde no more thrills for me/- , stated Mr. Schneider,, after com- ^tpletjne- his initial trip . . . Speak-
events, the need for some outside activities was manifested and those , Interested night students sought the contact and supported the func­tions whatever they may li:
when, after a lengthy discourse, he said, "l hope this answers your ¦question. ’By the way, what your question?” ..' The.authori­ties of one of the downtown hotels are still looking for Walt (Broken Cuspidor) Noigoi . . . They are also, investigating Nell Blochinger’s penchant for taking .silverware as 
souvenirs . ... "We could fill ai col­umn with the- escapades' of Bob Lahr’s -twins ; . :. Mr. Dougherty,____ perennial “better- latethan never" guys.waselected Presi- dent- of the Alumni Association. Captain Dorsey left class early night last week, to participate 
in thè. pinochle tournament.
Newly wed wives please The Engineers Banquet this yeai will be a completely stag affair!. . Four presidents, past and.pres- it, visited thè. council room in one renlng .^w . As another columnist ould put it (and. he’s good, too)
The Washington Birthday. Dance 
a matter of history. The 
music,, which waB furnished by Va? 
Garvin and his orchestra, 9hh oi 
,e smooth variety wBlch lends it- 
slf to an enjoyable evening.
The latest venture of the Night Student Council was a success, de­spite several very .'real handicaps The decorations which everyone noticed, but most everyone took for granted, were one of . the many things which had presented diffi­culties. Although last Friday was 'legal holiday, most of the busi­es houses remained open. Conse­quently there ' ,was a shortage ot workers to pr«_ the dance. In spltd of this, tho .depletion. by the workers of thi patriotic color scheme uBed made < very pleasing background-for a very 
delightful occasion.
C. Grimm to the office of President. It will'be remembered that Mr.' Grimm was Vice President under Mr. Blochinger.. His fine record in activities and as a student ha' both contributed to. his choice as the helsman to steer the -Connell through the remainder of the. year.
These important changés in Coun-11 came at an • inopportune mo­ment. ' since their unexpectedness -bid fair to disrupt the smooth oiv eratlon of not only thé Council, but also .the fine work that has been carried on by the various
Didja Notice
THAT if the dope (the ex-ed.) had scheduled enough hours he would, etilf have been editor, THAT we're stIM trying to figure out why his Ineligibility was just discovered.THAT the patrons of ,the dance were heard to 'cry “Mush” as they steered their
Ipatlon 1
!9, plays, debates, partic- wlth other collegeB in the lodel League of Nations assembly - in other international relations [ 
| movements.
There are no dues in any of tho| | clubs. Funds to defray the ex]>S' of their several programs -ovided by a blanket tax ,levied I .j each student by the Student Government Xssociation- at ,the be­ginning of each year. The money
