w
*
warwan
whis week
Presidents concert 
TARTAN profile 
Tenure theories 
Playwright, Marc Frost 
And the Steelers Came
Page 5
14
17
Van Horn Replaces Rutledge
photo by Ric Werme 
£ Richard Van Horne, new boss of 
Operations, Budget and Planning
mm
photo by Levine 
Dr. Ronald Rutledge
5 Men Streak 
In Midafternoon
by Kevin Turcotte
A brazen daylight streak occurred on 
the CMU campus. The streakers, five males, 
ran down the cut at about 3:00 p.m. last 
Thursday.
A student eyewitness to the event 
related a few specific details to the 
TAR I AN. “When I saw them, they were in 
tront of Skibo. I couldn’t tell whether they 
came from there or not. I was up on the 
third floor of Warner Hall at the time.” 
When asked if the streakers did anything 
to conceal their identities, he replied, “By 
the time I realized that this was an actual 
streak, it was too late to see if they had 
masks or towels on their faces.”
The direction of the streak was towards 
Frew St. “They ran up behind the Library 
and didn’t come back. I imagine they were 
contrnued on p. 6
Richard Van Horn has been named 
Chief Officer of Operations, replacing Dr. 
Ronald Rutledge, who has been appointed 
a Special Assistant to President Richard 
Cyert.
Cyert assounced the changes in a News 
Release to the TARTAN and FOCUS, 
dated March 1 and received March 9.
Van Horn, a former associate dean of 
GSIA, is currently the Director of Budget 
and Planning. He will retain that position.
In the News Release, Cyert commended 
Dr. Rutledge “for the important contribu­
tions he has made to the operation of the 
University. As Director of the Computa­
tion Center from 1970 to 1973, he 
strengthened both the management and the 
technical effectiveness of the Center. And 
as Chief Officer, Operations, he not only 
administered effectively the planning for a 
major rehabilitation of the physical plant, 
but also found ways to reduce operating 
expenditures and thus to provide impor­
tant help in achieving a balanced budget.” 
Operations has come under fire lately 
for a number of reasons. The Food Service 
Boycott, the protesting of Housing’s con­
tract, complaints about a lack of adequate 
janitorial services and recent complaints 
about Security, from both internal and ex­
ternal sources, all come under the Division 
of Operations’ heading.
Cyert declined comment on reasons for 
the change. He did say, in an interview 
taped on WRCT on Tuesday, March 5, “In 
my judgment, this move will, at this time, 
improve the University; it is a managerial, 
judgmental decision.”
Cyert was also asked in the WRCT inter­
view if “this decision was in the making 
when he (Van Horn) was first hired.” Cyert 
said, in part, “If you ask me to be 
honest ... I must say yes. the idea had 
crossed my mind before, but it was not a 
detailed plan or not something that I had 
planned to do long ago.”
Van Horn shows a marked willingness to 
step into the troubled Division. He claims 
that complaints about Operations won’t 
bother him. He says, in fact, that they 
make it easier to supervise an organization 
in which “it’s difficult to know what’s 
going on.” He adds, “To the extent that 
Operations is doing things that don’t meet 
the approval of the student body, I think 
the students should indeed be critical,” 
and, in addition to welcoming student 
comments on how the division should be 
run, Van Horn promises to encourage 
“broad participation” by employees. He 
said both that individual division heads will 
make most decisions themselves and that 
rank and file workers will have a chance to 
contribute suggestions.
He says that he does not now anticipate 
any personnel changes within the division. 
As for changes in the services that the 
division provides, Van Horn says that stu­
dents aren’t likely to notice any very soon: 
“Food Service problems are not going to 
disappear.” But he did speculate on innova­
tions he may try.
“What I would like to think about is 
how Operations can become tied to the 
overall educational experience,” he said. 
He mentioned Yale and Harvard, where 
living quarters are associated with colleges. 
He said C-MU might try dinner seminars 
with faculty (“I don’t know whether it 
would go over well.”), reserve book rooms 
in the dormitories, and study rooms close 
to living quarters.
Asked if the combination of Operations 
and Budget and Planning isn’t too much 
work for a single person. Van Horn said, 
“The Division of Budget and Planning was 
always a small group of people doing im­
portant things rather than a large organiza­
tion.” He said that it£ work will con­
tinued. “We’ll try to make sure the say­
ing, ‘Current problems drive out planning,’ 
doesn’t come true,” he said.
Dorm Councils Merge
by David Cates
After a general membership vote on 
March 3, WDC has decided to merge with 
MDC.
The new group, to be called Students' 
Dormitory Council (SDC), will have ex­
actly the same role as the two previous 
organizations. The joint council will have a 
larger budget, though, meaning better 
movies as well as an improved array of 
booths and buggies at the Spring Carnival. 
“It will strengthen us if we’re all together.” 
said WDC President Flsbeth Weichsel.
Over the f>ast two years there have been 
repeated attempts to get the two groups 
together. Elsbeth admitted that “the per­
sonalities of people in past administrations 
could be one of the major reasons” tor 
previous failures,
Bob Linn. MDC President, said “There
continued on p. 12
March 12, 1974 Volume 74 Number 19
Tartans Vanish
About two-thirds of the copies of last 
week’s TARTAN disappeared from 11 
locations around campus the night after 
they were put there by the printer.
TARTAN Editor-in-Chief Chris Infante 
says that a student involved in the recent 
drug bust told her the TARTANs were 
taken by one or two of the eight people 
whose names appeared in an article on the 
bust. “He wouldn’t come out and accuse 
anyone, but it wasn’t very hard to infer,” 
she said.
The value of the 3,000 missing TAR­
TANs is hard to assess but approaches 
$500 if printing, typesetting and type­
setters salaries are added in. A Security 
Officer who interviewed some TARTAN 
editors reported that it would be very hard 
to charge “theft” for a paper that is dis­
tributed free on campus. He said the only 
legal ramifications would be “mischevious 
conduct.”
The theft of the papers was formally 
reported to Security by Gary Singer, Man­
aging Editor of the TARTAN, at 1:30 p.m. 
on Wednesday. Later that afternoon, 
Editor-in-Chief Infante made a follow-up 
call to find out what Security had found 
out. Infante was told at this time that no 
report had been issued and two officers 
were dispatched so that a new report could 
be filed.
When asked if she felt this affair was 
receiving adequate attention from both the 
Security Services Department and the Divi­
sion of Student Affairs, Ms. Infante said 
“No. No one is very anxious to find out or 
prove anything. They are either not con­
cerned or don’t know how to go about 
finding out who did it.”
Gary Singer, when asked to comment, 
said “My primary fear concerning this theft 
is that it could act as a precedent for 
people given bad press in future TAR­
TANs.”
The paper almost went to press without 
including the names of eight students 
arrested in connection with the drug raid.
Dean Williams, when asked for the 
names of the students involved in the raid 
by the Western Pennsylvania Regional Task 
Force on February 22, “refused to give the 
names and preferred that we not print 
them,” said Ms. Infante. He felt that listing 
the names would be an unnecessary add­
itional embarassment to the students in­
volved. When asked why the TARTAN did 
print the list of names, Ms. Infante said 
“There was no reason not to. Three out of 
four editors decided to print the names."
pnoto by Aron: 
Elsbeth Weischel, former president of WDC
thanksThe TARTAN would like to dedicate 
this issue to the following students: Tom 
Kendig, Sandy Como, Dave Penner, Oscar 
Oscar, Bruce Lindsay and Sally Ezzo. if 
not for their assistance, this issue of the 
TARTAN would still be on the lavout 
table.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
editor’s note
Have you heard 
the one about...
So what’s a good officer doing at a place like this...
At the going rate of resignation we won’t have to worry about 
security; there won’t be any. We’ve harped on the ineffectiveness of 
campus security so we might as well know that our security officers are 
equally tired of being ineffective. And the sole solution seems to be at an 
impasse on the corner of noble ideas and absurdities.
Our security officers are unarmed.
Only the specifics can drive this home: Four officers recently an­
swered a call about a man who was allegedly exposing himself in the Fine 
Arts building. When they arrived and made a move to arrest him, eleven 
men in their late twenties stood in front of him and said you’re not taking 
him anywhere. That's just a little less than a 3 to I ratio.
Or did you hear the one about the lone officer who investigated a 
call. When he arrived at the parking lot he found five men with something 
like sledge hammers trying to break into the meters. The officer left the 
area and was later criticized for not making an arrest. Exasperated - Ire 
quit.
But when we’ve got to call in PITT’s campus police (and hope 
they’re not too busy) then things are worse than anybody thinks.
During the week three officers upon answering a call found 
themselves completely helpless and at the other end of a gun aimed 
directly at them. A call to PITT aided them.
Sentiments are naturally divided. The fqar that a student or campus 
employee might be shot is a justified deterent to carrying guns.
One way to get around the gun thing is to maintain a security staff 
large enough to handle incidents in numbers. That would mean a great 
increase in men and in salaries. Next idea-
Another is to have security wear emblems that read "Campus 
Police.” Though / hardly think the name alone will threaten or deter 
campus criminals.
The need to carry something other than guns but equally as effective 
is unavoidable. There are a number of strong reasons against and for 
security carrying guns; there is only one reason for not giving them some 
other means of defense - nievete.
Christine Infante 
Editor - in - Chief
ISI tartan
News Editor|: Rob SimbecK 
Futures Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Entertainment Editor: Susan Klein
News: Anthony Adler, Steve Correll, Sharon 
Curcio, Jan Lindberg, Tom Kendig, Emily Rhein­
hardt, Tom Schwartz, Debbie Siegel, Barbara 
Witte.
Entertainment Staff:
Perkins.
Mark Chimsky, Steve
Entertainment Artist: Richard Laeton.
Sfïorts: Roger Geddes, Dave Girdany, Glenn 
Cämpbell. Leslie Allen. Mary Kay Burak. Mary Jo 
Chabala. Jim Litsas. Mike Pochan. Mark Schiff- man, Ansley Klein.
Editor-in-Chief: Christine Infante 
Managing Editor: Gary Singer 
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, Elliot Arons
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy,
Chris Farland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Frederick Shamlian, John 
Shettel, Courtney Larson, Bryan Smith, Frank 
Stein, RicWerme
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
Copv Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy 
Kinneavy
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 pm. for articles and display ads 
on the Wednesday preceeding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located 
in Skibo 50. Telephone (412; 682-4557 or campus extension 656.
letters:
Editor:
At two recent meetings (Student Forum 
and Student Senate) students have asked 
questions concerning tenure and the award­
ing of tenure. It is also clear that other 
students are concerned about some of the 
decisions which were made this year. Presi­
dent Cyert, Provost Weber, and I are, of 
course, glad to talk to student groups a- 
bout this year’s decisions in a general way. 
It seems to me to be inappropriate to 
discuss the details of any individual case.
In some discussions I have had it seemed 
that students thought that adverse deci­
sions were only made in one or two of the 
colleges. That is not true. Attached is a 
Table which gives the cases considered and 
cases approved for each college for
1973-74. All cases at the professorial level 
about which my office has information are 
included, but reappointments or termina­
tions of Instructors and part-time faculty 
members are not included.
If you feel the student body would be 
interested in this information you are free 
to publish it.
Edward R. Schatz 
Provost and Vice President 
for Academic Affairs
To the Editor:
Actually, thrs letter is not to the Editor, 
it is a statement of thanks to the 855 
people who signed the “Save TGIF” peti­
tion a week ago. I am confident that all of 
your efforts (and mine) will produce the 
desired result, that being the allocation of 
TGIF’s budget for next year. If the Fi­
nance Committee (or the whole Senate) 
were to follow the Graduate Computer 
Senators and force TGIF down, they 
would, as of last Tuesday, be making a very 
serious mistake. We have shown that there 
is great support for TGIF. The demand for 
TGIF has, to my knowledge, surpassed the 
support for anything at this school in re­
cent years. For this, I thank you again.
To the campus community: in the last 
week I have talked with three bands. All 
are willing to play outside TGIF’s on Skibo 
patio pending nice weather. The weather 
criteria for an outdoor TGIF are: 70 de­
grees or above and less than a 10% chance 
of rain. Therefore, any Thursday, when the 
forecast for that Friday meets those cri­
teria, you can almost count on a TGIF that 
week. This is in effect from now until April
19 (except Spring Break).
Bill Capps 
TGIF Committee
continued on p. 7
TenurePromotion of Tenured Associate Professor
to ProfessorCFA42CollegeCases Considered Cases ApprovedMIS74CFA 51CIT64MIS 22SUP A11CIT 11H&SS42SUPA 00GSIA20H&SS 11
GSIA 00Total2413(Psych. & Stat)
Total 9
Reappointment as Assistant Professor or
Promotion to Associate ProfessorAssociate Professor
CFA32CFA 96
MIS11MIS 54
CIT54CIT 11
SUP A21SUPA 0o
H&SS00H&SS 52
GSIA10GISA 32
Total128Total15

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 12, 1974—Page 3
news comment
c) "automatic suspension or 
expulsion of students convicted 
...in the sale of illegal drugs."?
I appreciate thfc opportunity the TAR­
TAN has offered me to comment on 
matters which I believe are important to 
the campus community.
Ever since members of the Western 
Pennsylvania Regional Task Force on Nar­
cotics made eight arrests on the morning of 
February 22, each segment of the campus 
community has been concerned in several 
ways about the impact of that raid. I un­
derstand that the concerns are the follow­
ing:
1. The reputation of the University and 
its students suffers when wide publicity is 
given in the Pittsburgh newspapers to the 
alleged presence of large-scale criminal 
activity on the campus.
2. The process of entry and arrest by 
civil authorities without prior consultation 
with the officers of the University threat­
ens the sense of security that students have 
about the privacy of University accommo­
dations.
3. Criminal activity itself, when carried 
out using the campus as a base, eventually 
brings to the campus other people whose 
intent is criminal and who have no respect 
for the values of the campus community.
4. There ought to be some way for the 
University to take significant steps which 
prevent the recurrence of the type of raid 
which took place.
There is, first of all, tangible evidence 
that under most circumstances the campus 
does operate as a community with very 
liberal values and a high respect for the 
freedom and the privacy of students, fa­
culty and staff, and certainly with a high 
respect for independent rights. Almost all 
matters of personal security and property 
security are handled internally. An environ­
ment is created which provides freedom to 
explore life styles and personal relation­
ships superior to that in the world outside 
the University. Students, staff and faculty 
alike clearly value that environment.
In our attempts in recent years to assure 
such an environment and to reassure mem­
bers of the academic community who saw 
the world at large grow increasingly intoler­
ant of new life styles and of personal free­
doms, the campus institutied policies 
which reduced the occasions on which we 
will violate a student’s privacy so that, at 
présent, no University officer will enter a 
student’s room under any circumstances 
except for announced inspections and in 
the rare cases where a clear emergency re­
quires entrance. Moreover, the University 
has consistently refused to involve its staff 
in procedures designed to entrap violators 
of University regulations let alone viola­
tions of the public law. If these are proper 
attitudes for an academic community, and 
I believe <hey are, it is not feasible to 
undertake successfully a program which 
seeks out violations of a particular public 
law, such as the law involving the sale of 
narcotics, without compromising other 
protections highly valued in the University 
community.
However, despite regular warnings in the
TARTAN and before student government 
groups, that the campus is not a sanctuary 
from prosecution for violations of the law, 
we have cvidenee in th« formof raids that 
violations, and serious ones, sometimes
take place on the campus.
Therefore, in the matter of drugs, part­
icularly, we may need to reexamine a 
policy correctly described by Dean 
Williams in last week’s TARTAN. The 
current policy intends by pointing out the 
severe penalties of the law and by pointing 
out that the University is not a sanctuary 
to make clear that the University does not 
approve of illegal activities in connection 
with drugs. The policy was carefully 
worked out by a subcommittee of the 
Faculty Senate Council on Student Affairs 
three years ago. We hoped that students 
would recognize clear University dis­
approval of illegal drug activity, but that 
we would in no way violate the strongly 
valued community sense of the importance 
of privacy and freedom.
Evidence seems to be accumulating that 
such a policy, particularly when the Uni­
versity takes no further action in the case 
of convictions obtained by civil authorities 
against students, is still being interpreted as 
University approval of the use and sale of 
drugs or, at least, University condonement 
of the activities of students. Dr. Cyert and 
I have talked at length about the problem, 
and I am preparing to present to the Coun­
cil on Student Affairs for serious delibera­
tion an amendment to that policy which 
would provide for automatic suspension or 
expulsion of students convicted by civil 
authorities in the sale of illegal drugs.
There are difficulties with such a policy. 
Law enforcement agencies are not ac­
customed at the time of sentencing to 
notify universities of the sentence, and in­
deed such notification might be another 
violation of the privacy of the convicted 
person. Thé campus attitude about other 
convictions has been that, once a person 
has paid his debt to society, the University 
should be willing to accept his return. That 
objection might be met by suspension for 
the term of the sentence which has been 
imposed by civil authorities.
The problem becomes more complex 
when one recognizes that most courts use 
special probation for first offenders in 
cases of this kind in an attempt to return a 
first offender to his normal environment as 
part of the rehabilitation process.
I would appreciate serious thought given 
by all the members of this campus com­
munity to the problem I have described. I 
would like wide discussion among the var­
ious governmental groups so that we can 
achieve a reasonable policy which in no 
way violates student rights but permits the 
University to avoid the threats to freedom 
implicit in the procedures which-took place 
on the 22nd.
In view of what I’ve said above, I think, 
that Bruce Lindsay’s letter in last week’s 
TARTAN was unfair both to Dean Wil­
liams and to Security. If the values this 
campus community places on personal 
freedom, personal rights, and due process 
are important, threats and confronta- 
tions-inimical to a free society-will not 
solve the complex problems I have outlined 
above. The careful review of our drug pol­
icy I am requesting can evoke clearer and 
more permanent solutions to this problem.
Earle R. Swank, Dean 
Division of Student Affairs
a) Its your right to know 
And ours to Let you!
The TARTAN is faced with the constant duality of purpose of being 
both an¦ organization concerned with and part of the University and the 
only accurate weekly source of News for and about the campus 
community. Student organizations, faculty, administrators, and staff all 
look at the TARTAN as a great forum to get their point of view across but 
at the same time look at it with open hostility when it attempts to dig out 
the truth in matters that public relations wouldn’t necessarily do a release 
on.
We are continually plagued with the weighted decision on the 
importance of letting students know and the effect it might have on the 
subject of the story. This was the case in the story published in the hard 
to find March 5 edition of the TARTAN. Certain students and 
administrators were very vocal about their objection to the TARTAN 
printing the names of those arrested during the recent drug raids. Even 
though the names of arrested persons is a matter of public record, so 
much so that they all appeared in the Pittsburgh Press story on the raid, 
certain members of this academic community felt that a student 
newspaper should not print the names and thus hurt those students. It is 
even conceivable that the reason that the last issue of the paper was so 
hard to find is that some of the people involved in the raid decided to 
suppress the news which the TARTAN, in a decision by four editors, 
decided not to.
The TARTAN is here to serve the members of the CMU community. 
Our best service, as with any newspaper, is to provide the students, 
faculty, staff and administration with a truthful, factual reporting of the 
news, trusting the readers’ judgement to interpret the reported events as 
they see fit. The TARTAN cares, maybe more than most, about the fate 
of this University and the people who make it up; that is why we spend so 
much time digging at the truth.
Gary Singer
______________________________________________Managing EditorfcO 3 Streaks and you're out
by Fred Reiner
The word was out. The streak was on for tonight. We first heard it 
from “Skins” Malloy, one of our best runners. “CBS is desperate, Cron- 
kite’s ratings have been dropping all week and they need a good streak 
story if they want to stay in business against NBC. ” NBC had the best 
streak coverage in the country. It cost them a fortune to put together but 
it was paying off in the rating box.
We were a good streak team but not a great one. We were what you 
called a tight outfit; never anything fancy, but we got the job done. A 
spot on Cronkite would put us in the big time. Then the word came down 
from the top, “Get on Cronkite or heads will roll. ”
/ was captain of the team and the pressure was on me. My father had 
told me there’d be times like this; like the time when he was in college and 
thfy jammed forty-seven people into a bowling alley’s phone booth and 
he was the first one in. / knew what they meant by ‘heads will roll.’ I’d 
lo$e my position, my scholarship, my respect.
Half an hour before the streak we all started feeling the pressure, 
There were all sorts of rumors flying around the locker room. Word from 
upstate had it that the streak was fixed and no matter what happened, 
Cornell was going to win the spot. “Sure, ” muttered Skins. “Last week it 
was Purdue, and they didn’t even have the guts to go out in that 
hailstorm.” Another tipster had it that the University of Wisconsin was 
trying a marathon to Milwaukee. That could be hard to beat.
But the worst news that came in was from right in Pittsburgh itself. 
Duquesne was said to have hired a ringer, a professional streaker named 
“Boots” Lannigan. It was a dear infraction of the rules, but to CBS, who 
probably set the whole thing up, it wouldn’t make any difference. Against 
Lannigan we wouldn’t stand a chance. Two weeks ago at Columbia he’d 
left at midnight on Wednesday and came back at four-thirty in the 
afternoon Thursday with a Macy’s shopping bag filled with irons, toasters, 
and paperback books. Trying to get a spot on Cronkite, we’d be lucky if 
we could get mention on KDKA.
Just before the streak we got a phone call from upstairs. “Boys, / know 
what this means to you. The pride of the university runs with you toniqht.
continued on p. 12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
announcements
C. L. R. James will speak on "The History
of Pan-Africanism" in the Fourt-h Annual 
Caribbean Lecture Series. The lecture will 
be held at 3 pm. on March 13 in the 
Library of the Black Studies Department, 
3804 Forbes Avenue.
Attention seniors: The Alumni Associa­
tion's annual senior party will be held on 
the following dates: Thursday, March 14 at 
5:45 pm.: Fine Arts Seniors; Friday, March 
15 at 4:45 pm.: H&SS Seniors; Monday, 
March 18 at 4:45 pm.: CIT seniors. All 
programs will be in the Faculty Dining 
Room of Skibo. Tickets may be obtained 
with the presentation of an ID card at the 
Alumni Office, 5th floor, Warner Hall. You 
must have a ticket to be admitted. Please 
plan to stop in as soon as possible for your 
ticket or more information.
The English Department Lecture Series will
present, on Tuesday, March 19 at 11:30 in 
Breed Flail, Professor Jan Cohn, reading 
"George Washington Slept Here," from her 
manuscript, The Palace or the Poor House. 
There will be slides with the lecture; it is 
free and all are invited.
"The Ideology of the Tupamaros," a
lecture on the film State of Siege will be 
presented by the Latin American Club on 
Thursday, March 14th at 7:30 in the 
Wherrett Room.
The Pyramid Zen Society is sponsoring a
talk by Richard Rose, author of the 
Albigen Papers, which describes a Zen 
systeqn of searching for truth. All those 
who are interested in spiritual seeking, 
self-definition, enlightenment, etc., are wel­
come to hear the talk and ask questions. 
Saturday March 16, 7 pm., Skibo Wherrett 
Room.
The Tenth Muse coffeehouse will present a
Ja// coffeehouse on Friday, March 15 in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Free admission 
and food.
Male Emancipation: with guest speaker
Warren Farrell will be the next topic in The 
Every Other Tuesday Afternoon Forum 
Series. It will be on March .19 from 12:30 
to 1:30 in the Wherrett Room. Free to all 
students, faculty, and staff of CMU. Come 
and talk.
A 50's Social will be held on Saturday,
March 16 at 9 pm. in the 3rd floor Snack- 
Bar, Lawrence Hall at Point Park College. 
Refreshments will be served. It is spon­
sored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
Graffiti collectors. Now's your chance. A
small group of graduate students engaged 
in a research project on graffiti need na­
tionwide samples. Send graffiti you've seen 
hanging anywhere to: Burl Moss, P.O. Box 
8402, Greensboro, N.C. 27410.
Interested in Music, Art, Drama or Poetry?
What about Dance or Screeving? How 
about a free concert by Pete Segal and 
Janet Ketchum! Everything can be yours at 
a very reasonable cost of zero, this April 
25, 26, 27 and 28th at Lebanon Valley 
College. College and community have 
joined together"to form one of the most 
outstanding Arts Festivals in Pennsylvania. 
Exhibits, workshops, and concerts are 
scheduled to make this weekend explode 
with activity. Opening ceremonies with 
Pete Segal and Janet Ketchum will be held 
on Thursday, April 25th. Anyone inter­
ested in performing or exhibiting is asked 
to write to box 283, Lebanon Valley Col­
lege, Annville, Pa. or call 717 867-3561. 
ext. 317.
Mary Gardiner Jones, Professor of Law,
University of Illinois, Former Commission­
er, Federal Trade Commission, will be 
speaking at CMU on March 12. The lecture 
will take place at 4:00 pm. in the GSIA 
Auditorium.
Cafe Tel Aviv is held every Monday
through Thursday from 11:30-1:00. Lunch 
is served and Thursday is Deli Day. Old 
movies are shown every Tuesday. It is held 
in the H i I lei Dining Room, 3rd floor, 
Y-IKC. across from Hein/ Chapel and is 
sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center. .
Israeli and Folk Dancing is held every
Monday at 7:30 pm. in the H i I lei Lounge, 
3rd floor, Y-IKC on Bellefield. It is free 
and sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
Ten qualified counselors are needed for the
pre-college summer program to serve in the 
^ dormitory and to assist with the recrea­
tional and cultural program. Applications 
are available in the Student Affairs office, 
Warner Hall 211. Counselor responsibilities 
begin June 21 and end August 3
Attention Outdoor Lovers! Spring is com­
ing and it's getting warm but you're still 
stuck in Pittsburgh. Get away from it all- 
try backpacking, caving, canoeing, bicyc­
ling, rock climbing, or day hiking. We 
organi/e trips every weekend. Find out 
more at the C-MU Explorers Club meeting 
Thursday, 7:30 in Skibo 46.
Calling all BBYO Alumni: B'nai B'rith
Organi/ation of Pittsburgh and Western 
Pennsylvania is interested in meeting and 
becoming acquainted with former members 
of AZA and BBG. Gall Ed Garrick, Re­
gional Director, at 421-2626.
classifieds
Welfare camp needs used bicycles, type­
writers, machines and tools of any sort for 
children. Call Gary 441-5211.
Wanted: Two girls to share a townhouse
from September-December, modern, on 
Forbes opposite CMU. Call 621-8187.
Reward-lost: gold heart necklace. Call 
Debbie at 682-1849.
Spacious 3 bedroom apartment, w-w
carpet, Squirrel Hill, $225/mo. utilities 
included, avail, early May. 521-5042
According to all the media, the nation's
campuses are occupying their lives and sat­
isfying the radical factes of their personal­
ity by "streaking" around town. CMU, 
being the contemporary Ivory Tower that 
it is, should douse its cloths and bath in the 
Pittsburgh Sun.
personals
M&B's ran out of energy due to the crisis.
Rates are going up (isn't everything?) to $4 
a head.
Congratulations John & Barb on celebrat­
ing your honeymoon after three weeks of 
marriage!
The Best Man 
and Worst Ladies
Anna,
OK, now, everyone with an even-numbered 
license plate sing:
"boom.. . boom. . . boom. . . boom . . " 
And those with odd-numbered plates sing: 
. . toot-toot. . . toot-toot. . . toot- 
toot. . . toot-toot"
As the rest of us sing:
Take me out to the movies,
Take me out on the town.
Buy me a steak and some soup du jour,
I don't care if we stay out till four!
'Cause it's root, root beer and a soda,
We'll dance the whole night away.
Yes it's one, two, three nights a week 
As we play, play, play!
Carl
ATTENTION STAFF:On March 19th at 7:30 there will be a 
general TARTAN meeting to elect new 
editors for the coming year.
Anyone interested in the positions of 
editor - in - chief, news, features, or 
entertainment editors are asked to 
contact Christine Infante c/o TARTAN 
Room 50 SKIBO by March 1 3th.
MARCH 15, 1974 
8:00 PM
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
50/
DONATION GOES TO MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT SKIBO 4 DOOR

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 12/1974—Page 5
Kiltie Band Preview 
Carnegie Hall Concert
by Debbie Siegel
The Kiltie Band will present its Presi­
dents Concert (Cyert, not Nixon) on March 
17 at Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. This 
is the preview for the April 5th concert at 
Carnegie Hall in New York City.
The concert will feature Harry Franklin, 
pianist and professor of music at C-MU, in 
two solos with band accompaniment. 
George Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue is 
familiar to all music lovers. It provides the 
pianist with an opportunity to display 
technique and a personal interpretation. 
Mr. Franklin’s formula works.
Leonardo Balada, professor of com­
position, has composed a Concerto for 
Piano and Wind Ensemble which will be 
premiered. To give a hint about the dimen­
sions of this piece, each section contains a 
set of original symbols that tell the style in 
which the notes are to be played. The only 
way to understand what the piece en­
compasses is to hear it for yourself. Mr. 
Balada’s avante- garde contributions to 
musical literature open up new possibilities 
for the concept of musical sound in the 
future.
The band will also perform Mozart’s 
Fantasia in F Minor, arranged by Phillip 
Catelinet, professor of music at C-MU. 
Originally for organ, the Fantasia utilizes 
the unique sound of the full band con­
trasted with expressive solo sections.
Traditionally, bands are netted for the 
playing of marches. The Kiltie Band 
doesn’t disappoint march buffs. Valdres, an 
unusual Norwegian march, utilizes special
antiphonal trumpets. Mr. Catelinet has 
composed a rousing march entitled The 
Patriot, with action that gives Sousa com­
petition. The march is dedicated to the late 
Roberto Clemente. The Kiltie Band will 
play The Patriot and a half hour concert at 
the opening season game of the Pittsburgh 
Pirates versus Montreal on April 9th.
One surprise of the evening will be The 
Carnegie Fantasia. Edward Madden has put 
together a medly of Carnegie Tech songs 
into a modern arrangement that is cal­
culated to arouse nostalgia from students 
who don’t even remember the good old 
days.
Anybody who has attended a Kiltie 
Band Concert knows that 105 instruments 
producing a union of musical sound creates 
an impact that’s a definite high. If you 
haven’t tried it, trust me, you’ll be treated 
to an evening of excitement. Dr. Richard 
Strange will be conducting and the concert 
is free.
photo by Popowitz 
Director Strange directs Kiltie Band.
SACS Gain Power
Representatives from the various Stu­
dent Advisory Committees (SAC) met with 
Dr. Cyert to discuss campus issues last Fri­
day in the President’s dining room.
The impetus for the meeting came from 
a general feeling related by Dean Swank 
during last week’s tenure protest: “If 
things are so bad that the first way people 
think of getting something done is to boy­
cott (food services) or protest (tenure 
policies) then communications here are in 
very bad shape.”
One priority set forth was to try to 
guage the feelings and attitudes of people 
involved with certain critical areas. The 
various SAC’s met last Sunday to draw up 
an agenda and to emphasize that the lunch­
eon with Dr. Cyert was an information 
trade and not a confrontation. Prior to 
that, Dr. Cyert asked that the TARTAN 
not be present and the SAC’s asked that 
Dean Steinberg also not be present, thus 
insuring the least possible degree of antag­
onism.
“President Cyert went out of his way to 
be as open and honest as possible. Dr. 
Weber listened to us and made a concerted 
effert to understand what was going 
on .. .The committee is really grateful for 
the consideration and respect they showed 
us,” said Vicky Stein, SAC spokesman.
She added that she was very pleased 
when Cyert “let us run the meeting’”
The meeting opened with discussion of 
the possible shift from twelve to nine units 
in some H&SS courses. “This is just an­
other aspect of the service school theory. 
We feel Dpan Steinberg railroaded it 
through and that the premises (i.e. Cue 
Survey) it’s based on are faltacious,” Stein
Akadama Mama says,Be Nice to Mice.
This week’s letters 
were kind of 
dull, but I did get 
a neat package.
It contained a home 
built mouse trap. Not 
one of those hurtful, snapper, killer, 
5 & 10 things. But a genuine can’t-hurt- 
you-and-I’m-sorry-if-I-scared-you kind 
of a thing. It was made of scrap wood 
and window screen (see illus.) and I got 
a very together friend of mine to do a 
blueprint and instructions. I also have 
a friend with a copy machine, so if you’d 
like a copy of the plan just mail me the 
mouse coupon.
Now that we’ve been nice 
to mice, I’d like to give you a 
couple of my favorite Akadama 
recipes that will be nice to you.
THE VODKADAMA
of ice and lemon and orange slices. 
To make more just double, triple or 
quadruple everything.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama.
The wine you can mix.
/sv
s /
I / /?\ O, N 
\ : \
i ' ' ------------- \_v
-------------------V ^ Mail to: Be Nice To Mice N
— \ P.O. Box 2629
^ c Paine Vprtto« F
\
\
/
?
"\-
Iy
It’s almost harder to Palos Verdes Peninsula, Ca. 90274
pronounce than it isto make. 
Just mix one part Akadama 
Red and one part Vodka, 
then add a twist of lemon 
and a nicely amount of ice.
SANGRIA AKADAMA
A bottle of Akadama 
Red, a pint of club soda, I 
V4 of a can of frozen lemon-V 
ade concentrate, plenty
Akadama Mama, please lay a copy of 
your very together friend’s blueprints 
& instructions on me.
I Name.__
¦ Address.
/, City—¦ State—Zip Code.
j /\ ? I’m checking this box because 
/ | Akadama is picking up the postage and|
| they would like it if I also asked you to 
,* ^pass an Akadama recipe card.
^ ^Imported by Suntory International. L A.. Ca. 
----------------------------------------------------p-----------------------------------------
\
IN
0
1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
told the Tartan.
The SAC’s asked that the final decision 
be held up until all facts were in. “We’re 
not sure it was a good move nor one done 
in good faith ... If there’s a question, let’s 
talk about quality, not making them 
cheaper.” One result of the SAC’s fear that 
the unit change would cause more dissen­
sion than good is that Dr. Weber has taken 
it under his wing to get the move slowed 
down.
The highly controversial tenure and pro­
motions issue was next on the agenda. 
Both individual cases (Korn, Renaldo & 
Brignano) and the entire system were dis­
cussed, but Dr. Cyert asked that the mem­
bers of the SACs not discuss what was said 
with regard to specific cases. For the most 
part, the discussion centered on the lack of 
emphasis on teaching excellence. Dr.Cyert 
and Dr. Weber maintained that the proper 
criterion to judge teaching excellence do 
not exist. The idea of a teaching folder, 
comparable to the present publishing fold­
ers on file for each faculty member, was 
discussed. The SACs emphasized that 
teaching is more important to the human­
ists than in other colleges. Although Vicky 
was not sure if the committees had any 
effect on specific cases she felt sure that 
Cyert was “going to try to give more 
weight to teaching.”
A second major part of the tenure dis­
cussions involved student participation. 
During last week’s protest, demonstrators 
asked that students be a part of the 
tenure-decision-making committees. The 
SACs reiterated this request. Dr. Cyert, 
however, stated that students on such 
committees might tend to inhibit certain 
profettors from giving certain evaluations. 
Dean Swank contradicted the statement 
somewhat by anticipating committee mem­
bers meeting and discussing cases outside 
the set meeting times and without the 
presence of students. The most positive 
solution to this problem, according to Ms. 
Stein, rests with the SACs. “We’re going to 
work on finding better ways for student 
input.”
The service school theory, according to 
some SACs, is substantiated by recent ten­
ure decisions. The Psychology department 
was cited as “lopsided” as a result of ten­
ure. Dr. Cyert reassured SAC members that 
if any department is imbalanced by tenur­
ing he will strengthen the area with a 
deficiency. “Old programs will not die 
out,” said Ms. Stein. Dr. Cyert has on sev­
eral occasions (TARTAN interviews, 
WRCT shows, and SAC meetings) flatly 
denied H&SS would be a service school. 
“The long-range goal is to have a strong 
department in all of ours,” he said.
Finally, priority was given to building 
maintenance. The SACs asked that the 
ouildings be cleaned up and Dr. Cyert said 
they would be. “That’s all there was to it,” 
concluded the SAC representative.
The initial sentiment that communica­
tion has been so bad that it has led to alot 
of bad feelings ended optimistically. “I was 
very pleased,” said Dr. Cyert. “I thought 
the groups handled themselves intelligent­
ly. I think alot can come of it.”
SAC members, too, felt positive. “Infor­
mation will be made more readily available; 
Cyert is always available and open; prob­
lems are being handled.” The SACs are, as 
a result of this meeting, assuming more 
responsibility for siphoning information 
between students and administrators.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
Tartan Profile
Dr. Ronald Rutledge
Corp. Grants
Dr. Ronald Rutledge’s tenure as Chief 
Officer of the Division of Operations was 
controversial from the start. Upon his own 
appointment during the summer of 1972, 
President Richard Cyert created the Divi­
sion of Operations by lumping together a 
group of then independent departments. 
The departments had two things in com­
mon: they performed non-academic ser­
vices for the campus, and the administra­
tion felt they should all be made to operate 
on a leaner budget. Under the current 
structure, the Division of Operations is 
required to pay for itself, without drawing 
on University monies.
At one time or another. Operations has 
included: Building Services (maintenance). 
Communications Services (telephones, post 
office, teaching aids), Electronic Services, 
Housing, Food Services, Bookstore, Office 
Services, Personnel, Physical Plant Services 
(construction and renovation), Purchasing, 
Security Services, Research Services, and 
Computation Center.
Rutledge started out by cutting the pay­
roll. “There were too many people who 
weren’t serving any real purpose ... I was 
forced to fire some of my friends,” he 
explained in the September 26, 1972 TAR­
TAN.
Since then, Operations has kept in the 
news by:
— Establishing in fall, 1972, a new park­
ing fee system intended to limit use of the 
most popular lots by charging higher fees 
for them. The new system involved install­
ing gates at the entrance to each lot. Park­
ers promptly began swiping the gates.
— Remodeling Morewood Gardens Cafe­
teria, the Kiltie Cafe, and the Staff Cafe­
teria. The new decor included carpeting, 
wallpaper, chairs, and marquees.
— Installing Frank Colosimo as “Dir­
ector of Customer Relations” in Septem­
ber, 1972. More frequently known as 
“Ombudsman,” Collosimo works within 
the administration to solve grievances of all 
kinds, whether they are related to the Divi­
sion of Operations or not.
-Proclaiming the era of “student as 
customer.” The phrase was supposed to 
mean that the student, like the customer in 
the proverb, is always right and that he is 
the ultimate reason for the division’s exist- 
ance and therefore it’s ultimate boss. In­
stead, the words quickly became a catch- 
phrase for all campus resentment of Rut­
ledge’s lightening innovations. It quickly 
fell out of use among administrators, and 
eventually among students.
-Running into a hassle with the Staff 
Council in October, 1972, Rutledge al­
legedly intimidated leaders of the council 
by sending copies of a memorandum to 
their bosses. The dispute was eventually 
resolved, with only slight lingering bitter­
ness on either side.
-Experimenting with publishing an 
“Operations News” advertising supplement 
in the TARTAN to keep staff and students 
informed of division actions. These were 
later replaced by two publications: “Com­
puter Center News” and “Campus News,” 
the staff newspaper.
—Centralizing the teaching aids center.
— Opening food service facilities 365 
days a year.
-Twice removing pinball machines from 
the Tartan Grill on the grounds that they 
contributed the wrong atmosphere.
— Instituting new dormitory fees based 
on the demand for various types of rooms 
rather than the cost of maintaining them. 
The new fees took effect in fall, 1973.
— Firing the heads of housing and food 
services during the summer of 1973 and 
replacing them with the people who 
currently hold the jobs. In the process, the 
proportion of women in C-MU managerial 
positions rose.
—Cutting seconds in the Kiltie Cafe at 
the beginning of the fall semester of 1973.
—Closing the staff cafeteria to save 
money and promote a more democratic 
campus atmosphere and then conceding de­
feat and reopening the cafeteria less than a 
month later.
Three educational grants have been 
awarded by the Carnegie Corporation to 
stimulate educational innovations.
One grant is for a different approach to 
education called Self-Paced Learning 
(SPL). This year SPL has been tried out in 
CIT and MIS. The student directs his own 
learning of the course material and uses 
problems and a study guide prepared by 
the professor. The student doesn't attend 
classes but may have conferences with the 
professor to work out individual diffi­
culties. Results have been encouraging 
according to the three courses already 
given with this system. The grant is de­
signed to reduce the cost of preparing SPL 
courses and use the computer to generate 
problems and to help devise study guides. 
The project has the potential to make a 
significant contribution to improve educa­
tion and productivity.
John Sandberg made a proposal for a 
program to develop on-the-job experiences 
for all students preparing to become teach­
ers in secondary schools. Professor Sand­
berg believes students should discover 
earlier whether they like teaching and have 
the ability to function well in a public 
classroom. The grant will enable students 
to get a timely reading on their interests 
and abilities and provide better prepara­
tion for prospective students.
“Presentation of Self in Public Life” is 
the workshop created by Professor Robert 
Shellow, awarded the third grant. It grew 
out of workshops for advanced master stu­
dents in the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs who prepared and presented various 
topics of which video tapes were made. 
One Drama professor »analyzed the tapes 
for voice handling and another watched for 
expression by physical movements. The 
second presentation incorporated suggest­
ions for improving communication with 
the audience. The grant will allow for more 
professional people to gain awareness of 
how to communicate their expertise to the 
public.
Response to the Carnegie Corporation 
grant program has already been positive. 
Several other proposals with significant 
potential are being considered for grant 
awards. Earlier indications show the value 
of the grants’ contribution to the quality 
and efficiency of education at C-MU.
Give the world 
a little gift today. 
Blood.
+
The American Red Cross. The Good Neighbor.
"STUDIES OF THE IRISH DRAMATISTS”
LECTURE BY
SEAMUS DEANE, Ph. D.
National University, Dublin 
8:00 P.M. MONDAY, MARCH 18f 1974
WHERRETT ROOM, SKIBO 
Sponsored by
STUDENT ACTIVITIES, HISTORY & ENGLISH
Zen Lecture
by Mike Gugenheimer
If you're looking for something and it’s 
not TGIF, pin-ball, movies, or homework, 
maybe the Activities Board has come up 
with the answer. Focusing on a more ser­
ious aspect of life, this Saturday, March 16, 
the AB lecture series’ guest is Richard 
Rose, teacher of the Pyramid Zen Society 
at Pitt, who will speak on systems of spirit­
ual seeking. In contrast to the recent flood 
of gurus, gimmicks and the resultant dis­
illusionment among many of us, the 
Activities Board has in Rose a sincere and 
genuine man.
Last January Rose gave a talk at Pitt 
which included a discussion of Zen, the 
Gurjieff-Ouspensky system, and a practical 
discussion of his own system which is very 
similar to Zen. Down at Pitt he began by 
telling a bit about himself, giving the aud­
ience a chance to evaluate his sincerity. 
The lecture and question-answer session at 
Pitt showed him to be very open and res­
ponsive to questions. Rose is uniquely 
qualified to talk on spiritual matters. He 
has spent his entire life in spiritual research 
and says that he reached enlightenment at 
age 32. (He’s now 56.) His book, the 
Albigen Papers, which includes an account 
of his experience, outlines a general system 
embodying what he has found to be the 
most efficient methods a man can use in 
seeking self-definition—the Truth.
The lecture starts at 7:00 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Room. You can find more infor­
mation on the posters around campus or 
by calling 431-2253.
Cosmic Streakers
continued from p. 1
picked up in a car.” said the eyewitness.
“It was cosmic as hell,” he said, “right 
after they went by, it started to rain. It 
rained really hard for about 10 minutes, 
just long enough to wash away the foot­
prints before Security could get there.”
An administration official, also an eye­
witness added, “First the streak, then God 
sent the rains to cleanse the earth.”
When asked if he could identify the 
streakers, the first eyewitness replied, “The 
bodies weren’t familiar.”
MOTORCYCLE 
INSURANCE
West Penn Motor Club 
Insurance Agency
202 Penn Circle West 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
Phone: 362-0200

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 12, 1974—Page 7
letters cont’d:
continued from p. 2
Editor:
Today is a time of growing feminine 
awareness, and males in these times who 
are involved whether they realize it or not 
are often criticized for sexist behavior.
A man’s statements must be carefully 
worded to exclude any sexist content. And 
he must analyze his actions to avoid the 
impression of condescending attitudes. 
These endeavors are worthwhile; an open- 
minded cooperation by males is a begin­
ning toward female equality. But this is 
only half the fight. If women are to assert 
themselves as serious contenders in the 
male-dominated world, they must first 
assert their independence and equality in a 
social manner.
Female members in professional levels 
of science, business and industry are nu­
merically out of proportion with the entire 
employed female population, and these 
proportions will remain at this low level as 
long as women remain as passive socially as 
they have been to date. Females have relied 
on males to do the initial reaching-out and 
make the initial sexual advances. Women 
will never be equal unless they avoid social 
and sexual inferiority.
Males, who feel superior becasue they 
are the social aggressors, will be forced to 
reevaluate the position of women if women 
allow themselves to become equally aggres­
sive. An oft mentioned criticism of today’s 
male is that he isn’t around when the 
female revolution needs him. It must also 
be said that the female isn’t around when 
the social-sexual revolution needs her.
James F. Martin
Editor:
I appreciate the “in loco parentis” ex­
amples in last week’s TARTAN. Gary Sing­
er writes that a “committee has denied 
students the right to Thank God It’s Fri­
day”; Alma Mater, without your subsidy 
we cannot practice our religion nor have a 
party. Bill Capps says the TGIF budget is 
the only hope for undergraduate (!) sanity; 
Alma Mater, without your money we will 
lose our minds. Steve Lee writes “The col­
lege experience is life itself’; Alma Mater, 
without you we are nothing.
In many places, students a.id others are 
exploring alternatives to centralized (often 
tax supported) services. Co-Operatives and 
self help groups are emerging, and self edu­
cation is again becoming respectable. Peo­
ple are realizing that government is often 
unnecessary. At CMU, the only (but hope­
ful) signs of that trend are Entropy, The 
Jazz Band, and several A Phi 0 services.
The status quo, praised by Mr. Lee, does 
not meet my standards. It is characterized 
by “helpless” students depending on Alma 
Mater. We can do much better than that.
Lee Cooprider
Editor:
On Tuesday, March 5, I attended the 
lecture presented by Ms. Claudia Dreifus. 
The topic of discussion was “Women and 
Madness” and was to present possible 
explanations as to why more women than 
men are found in mental institutions. In­
tuitively, the possible explanations would 
be social and psychological pressures 
placed on women which may lead to 
rejection of the traditional roles and, all 
too often, inner conflicts as the will to 
“break away” is smothered by the 
woman’s economic, emotional, and re­
creational dependency on a man.
The lecture was a grave disappointment 
in almost every area. No new issues were 
presented to the audience and the old con­
cepts that were presented were done in a 
superficial, hackneyed, and somewhat 
caustic manner.
My main objection to her speech, how­
ever, lies in the very foundation of her 
attitude towards women’s rights. A 
principle misconception held by many 
women, and even more men (especially 
those who claim to be sympathetic to the 
women’s movement) is that women who 
are involved in “women’s liberation” want 
to be men. This simply is not true. All too 
often one hears from persons and reads 
in the literature that the time for women’s 
freedom has arrived-freedom expressed by 
reading Playgirl magazine, going braless, 
loving and leaving ‘em, and being sexually 
seasoned. After all, comparable behaviors 
are condoned (if not expected) for the 
male, and the best manner in which a 
woman can declare her “liberation” is to 
emulate that which has, for years, been 
keeping her less than. But expression of 
one’s freedom as a woman does not come 
about by making the same mistakes men 
have been making all along. If reading 
Playboy were exceptable for males, then, 
indeed, reading Playgirl should be just as 
acceptable for females. The fault in the 
reasoning lies in the fact that reading 
Playboy, and all the implications therein of 
“body beautiful,” may not be acceptable, 
so why should women perpetuate the in­
justice? Although this example is rather 
simplistic in nature, it can be extended to 
other areas in our social system. If loving 
and leaving or sexual promiscuity 
(whatever that is) were condoned for men, 
then they should be for women, too; but 
the two behaviors are not necessarily 
morally or ethically correct, so why should 
women follow suit?
Just because men do it does not make it 
right or make it excusable for women. 
Women want to be women, not men; they 
don’t want to make the same mistakes. 
What women do want is the freedom to 
choose what is right for them as 
individuals. It is a case ot personal 
liberation versus emulation. All too often, 
however, the two are equated.
Karen A sin
RUHANI SATSANG
The Teaching of the Living Master
SANT KIRPAL SINGH
A representative will speak on the Sacred Inner Science as taught 
by all Great Masters in all ages.
2:30 - 3:30 P.M.SAT. MARCH 16
UNIVERSITY & CITY MINISTRIES BLDG. 4401 Fifth Avenue 
ALL WELCOME NO CHARGE NO COLLECTION
For further information Mr. T.S. Khann 
6351 Old Dominion Dr., McLean. Va.. 22101
Editor:
The image of librarians as simply 
“guardians of books” is one that the CMU 
Libraries are anxious to erase. Librarians 
want to help you find the materials you 
need.
If you have a term paper, for example, 
may I offer a few suggestions that might be 
helpful. You might start by looking into 
“Form and Style in Theses Writing” (029.6 
C19fl). This will show you the proper tech­
niques for footnotes, bibliography, etc. 
Then, look in the Library of Congress “List 
of Subject Headings” to find the pertinent 
headings for use in our card catalog. Check 
these in the catalog to see if the Library 
has books on your subject.
Consult the indexes to periodical litera­
ture. Many know the “Reader’s Guide to 
Periodical Literature” but this can be aug­
mented by more specialized sources such as 
“Index to Business Periodicals”, “History 
and Social Science Index”, or “Applied 
Science and Technology Index.”
The Library’s Information file and/or 
Picture file might yield pamphlets or 
pictures useful to you.
The more you learn about the Library, 
the more useful it will be to you. Librar­
ians are there to aid your learning. Never 
hesitate to ask for help.
Frances C. Hardie 
The Hunt Library
Editor:
An open letter to Mr. James Booton, 
Jr., Director of Personnel:
We the members of the UAW Organi­
zing Committee, after due deliberation, 
signed and returned cards authorizing UAW 
to become our bargaining agent.
1). Sending in signed authorization 
cards does not make representation a fact 
(as you imply). After a sufficient number 
of cards have been returned (33 1/3% re­
quired by law; usually 60-70%) United 
Auto Workers will notify the NLRB to 
hold an election by secret ballot.1 Only af­
ter the election would the United Auto 
Workers be the official bargaining agent. 
Some staff also signed UAW Organizing 
Committee cards. By its very nature and by 
law, this group must be visible; their names 
are sent to President Cyert and to the 
NLRB for their protection. The university 
mjjst prove to the satisfaction of the NLRB
that any change in employment of any one 
of this group is not for reasons of retalia­
tion for their recruiting activities. Authori­
zation cards which the employees mail to 
UAW are kept secret. Only UAW and 
NLRB have access to these cards.
2). Members of the staff are signing au­
thorization cards and inviting a third party 
to “interfere” as you term it, because we 
think the relationship the university has 
with staff is weak. We welcome third party 
legal expertise and bargaining experience to 
gain adequate wages and fair employment 
practices.
3). We of the committee feel that, con­
trary to your statement “signing of this 
card is analogous to signing a blank check 
over to the UAW,” the university holds the 
blank check-a check that remains to be 
filled in with an amount of money to meet 
the rising cost of living and provide decent 
benefits. By paying our two hours’ per 
month dues to UAW we will have, in a 
sense, hired the UAW legal department to 
advise us in the formulation of a contract 
to accomplish these objectives.
4). Our committee has been communi­
cating to staff the information that if they 
have indeed asked for retrieval of their 
cards from UAW, they may, after consider­
ation of the issues, submit another.
5). The UAW operates in an advisory 
capacity. Its experience and legal services 
will be at our disposal but it is a committee 
of the staff itself that actually works out 
the contract with the University.
£>). If the staff feels that UAW is not 
doing a job for them, they can elect not to 
have UAW representation after a year.
Members, UA W Organizing CommitteeRESEARCH
Thousands of Topics $2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC.
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 
(213) 477-8474 or 477-5493
Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
BOEING-VERTOL COMPANY
Will Be Conducting 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
on March 19th, 1974
OPENINGS AVAILABLE FOR:
• MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
• AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS 
• CIVIL ENGINEERS 
• ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
. . . WITH INTEREST IN THE AREA OF: Flying 
qualities, Aerodynamics performance,
Stress, Engineering labs.. Electrical design, 
Electronic systems.
Positions are located with the Boeing-Vertol Company in subur­
ban Philadelphia (Delaware County.)
Other engineering openings are also available at the Boeing 
Commercial Airplane Company and Aerospace Company in Seat­
tle, Washington.
To Arrange Convenient
Interview CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
Comp Sei Gets New Head
by Chip Yeager
photo by RicWerme 
Dr. John McCredie, New Director of Computer Sciences.
Haven’t We 
Always Been?
by Barbara Lee Witte
In the United States, 9% of all doctors 
are women and 2% of all doctors are Black. 
Dr. Gloria Ongue is both-she is a psychia­
trist who practices in Shadyside. Dr. Ongue 
grew up in the 1950’s on Eastern Parkway 
in Brooklyn. She attended the Junior and 
Senior High School of the Hunter College 
for gifted students where she was valedic­
torian, went to college at Mt. Holyoke, and 
then Yale Medical School, took her resi­
dency at the University of Pittsburgh’s 
Western Psychiatric Hospital and her 
internship at Montifiore.
Dr. Ongue’s successes are not un­
precedented. Her mother, who she 
described as being “pushy” but “support­
ive”, is a teacher whose philosophy is that 
“you must be twice as good.” Dr. Ongue 
sees a pattern in the professional woman in 
that “she usually comes from a house with 
the double role model of a working 
mother.” Dr. Ongue was “competitive” 
with a sister who is one year older, and 
followed a similar pattern of education up 
until Med School.
Dr. Ongue got married after her first 
year of internship and left her studies to 
have 3 children, now 16, 15 and 13 years 
old. She returned 7 years later to resume 
her work. After her degree she immediately 
joined the faculty of Western Psych where 
she still has an office. Her special concerns 
there have been in alleviating discrimina­
tion towards both women and Blacks. She 
leads a discussion group for women med 
students and is active in the further recruit­
ment of Black medical students.
Dr. Ongue has been in private practice 
for 3 years. She spoke about the recurring 
problem of the woman over 30 who is 
bitter or resigned to her lack of self and her 
programmed role in society. She believes 
that, even though some doctors still con­
tinue to perpetrate the socialization of 
women, attitudes are changing . . .more 
women want to see a woman pshcyiatrist 
for that reason: they feel that there will be 
a higher level of understanding between 
them.
Dr. Ongue currently lectures on careers 
in various schools and is on the national 
board of GAP, where she is involved with 
research about the college woman. She 
suggests that women who want to be pro­
fessionals should find their own options 
and ~stick to them^ and that, as pro­
fessionals, they should look for ways to 
modify the system for themselves and for 
those who will follow.
Hunt Library 
Books For And 
About Women- 
Recent Acquisitions of 
February, 1974
Anais, Nin Anais Nin Reader Chicago, 
Swallow Press. 1973
Atwood, Margaret Surfacing New York 
Simon and Schuster. 1972
Bird, Caroline Everything A Woman Needs 
To Know To Get What She’s Worth New
York David McKay. 1973 *
Bullough, Vern L. The Subordinate Sex: A 
History of Attitudes Toward Women Ur-
bana, University of Illinois. 1973.
Lessing, Doris, The Summer Before The
Dark New York, Knopf. 1973
Oates, Joyce Carol Do With Me What You
Will New York, Vanguard. 1973
Van Vuurer, Nancy The Subversion of 
Women Philadelphia, Westminster. 1973
Women’s Work and Women’s Studies, 
1971— Women’s Center, Barnard College.
1973.
Chisholm, Shirley The Good Fight New 
York, Harper and Row. 1973
Deutsch, Helene, M.D. Confrontations with 
Myself New York W. W. Norton. 1973
Nadelson, Regina Who Is Angela Davis? 
New York Peter H. Wyden. 1972 
Oates, Joyce Carol, Marriage and utner 
InfidelitiesNew York Vanguard Press. 1973
Solomon, Barbara Probst Arriving Where 
We Started New York Harper and Row. 
197?
Soltow, ' Martha Jane; Forche, Carolyn; 
Massre, Murray Women In American Labor 
History, 1825-1935 Michigan State Univer­
sity, East Lansing, Michigan. 1972
On Order
Women’s History
The Sarah Lawrence College Women’s 
Studies Program has received a grant from 
the Rockefeller Foundation which will en­
able it to expand the Masters in Women’s 
History, admitting a total of twenty-eight 
students over a three-year period. They will 
also launch a fellowship-supported training 
program for women in community activi­
ties. They are interested in receiving “suit­
able candidates for the Masters program 
and for the training program for women 
activists.” Send inquiries to: Gerda Lerner, 
professor of History, Co-director, Women’s 
Studies Program, Sarah Lawrence College, 
Bronxville, New York 10708.
Research Opportunities
The Ford Foundation has announced 
the ^continuation of the Faculty Fellow­
ships for Research on the Role of Women 
in Society and the Doctoral Dissertation 
Fellowships in Women’s Studies for the
1974-75 academic year.
Information regarding the faculty 
awards is available in the Women Studies 
office, University of Pittsburgh, 1012 
Cathedral of Learning or by writing to: 
The Ford Foundation, Faculty Research 
Fellowship Program on Women in Society, 
320 East 43rd Street, New York, New 
York 10017.
The Doctoral Dissertation I Mlowship 
Program is now being administered by the 
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship 
Foundation. For further information write 
to: Doctoral Dissertation Fellowships in 
Women’s Studies, Woodrow Wilson Na- 
ti^ial Fellowship Foundation, 32 Nassau 
Street, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.
Dr. John W. “Jack” McCredie. Jr., an 
assistant professor of Computer Science, 
has been appointed to the newly-designed 
post of Director of Computation Services. 
Dr. McCredie started his new job last week. 
He will work with Albin L. Vareha, Jr., 
Manager of the Computation Center, in the 
administration of the Center.
McCredie has overall responsibility for 
the computation services that C-MU pro­
vides. He will direct short- and long-range 
planning for the Center, and take respon­
sibility for pricing and allocation of com­
puter time. McCredie is also in charge of 
user relations*and communications. In all 
this, he will report to Richard L. Van 
Horn, Chairman of the Computation Cen­
ter Management Board.
Vareha will direct the activities of the 
Center in regards to operation and develop­
ment. He will implement short and long 
range plans and evaluate them. He will 
work with McCredie as well as with user 
and Center representatives in establishing 
policies and plans, for the Center. This tan­
dem set-up was established to relace the 
posts of Director and Assistant Director. It 
is felt that the arrangement best suits the 
persons in charge, since a different man 
now occupies th^ top post in the Center 
than under the old regime.
Short range plans for the Center involve 
no major equipment changes. C-MU owns, 
or has taken out mortgage on, the 360, 
1180, Ampex memory system, communi­
cation interfaces, and most of the other 
equipment. It is next to impossible, there­
fore, to make major changes like throwing 
the 360 out. According to McCredie, how­
ever, Center technicians are closely work-, 
ing with IBM personnel to correct the 
problems that plague the 360. As far as he 
knows, C-MU’s 360 has had more problems 
than other similar set-ups, for as yet un­
known reasons. The director remarked 
that, while aging might have something to 
do with it, the system was now only seven 
years old, and the earliest 360’s, many still 
in operation, were only ten years old, so 
their life expectancy was unknown.McCredie could not be specific on long- 
range plans for the center. Being on the job 
only a week had not given him any insight, 
as yet, on the far future. He talked, how­
ever, about studies now under way to plan 
the future configuration for the 360, once 
the system is running at full efficiency 
again.
McCredie then described the installation 
and use of a new system from Digital
Equipment Corporation, maker of the 
PDP’s. The system, called RSTS (Resource 
Time Sharing) is to be activated this fall. It 
is an enhancement of the present TSS-8 
system, designed to run on the PDP-11/45, 
and to provide time-sharing use of BASIC 
only. This additional facility, based on the 
popularity of the TSS-8, will be available 
for undergraduate educational use.
McCredie himself will remain on the 
active list in the Computer Science Depart­
ment. He will teach one undergraduate 
course a year, as well as a seminar. In 
addition, to fulfill one of his responsibili­
ties, he has stated that he welcomes 
comments from user groups on the Center. 
He has already met with several groups, 
including the Computer Club, concerning 
ways in which service could be improved. 
He has emphasized that studies are under­
way on all facets of the Center, and that 
comments from groups would be of great 
help in this.
The Selection Committee, which pro­
cessed about 70 applications for the job of 
Director, narrowed the choice to three in­
ternal and four external candidates. 
According to committee member Marc 
Kellner, McCredie seemed the best all- 
around person to fill the needs of Center 
management. He had studied computer 
simulation and time-sharing extensively, 
areas of major consideration in the Center. 
Although McCredie has relatively little on- 
the-job experience in these fields, it was 
felt that this would not hinder him. In 
addition, his association with A1 Vareha 
appeared to provide the right”mixture of 
operation and planning for .the Center. 
McCredie, being familiar with the frontiers 
of research, also seemed best qualified for 
long-range planning.
McCredie has been Assistant Professor 
in Computer Science here since 1968. He 
received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees 
in engineering from Yale. After two years 
as a systems analyst in the Department of 
Defense, he came to C-MU and received his 
Ph.D. from GSIA in 1972. He has served as 
consultant to organizations including IBM. 
the RAND Corporation, and the State of 
Pennsylvania.
A1 Vaheha has worked in the Computa­
tion Center since 1965 including positions 
as programmer, Director of Software and 
Information Systems, and Associate Di­
rector of the Center. He received his B.S. in 
physics from C-MU in 1964 and took 
graduate work in Clmputer*Scienc%at the 
University of Michigan.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974-Page 9
Fund Battles Appalachian Poverty
by Jan Lindberg
The Pittsburgh-Appalachian Emergency 
Fund, Inc., (PAEFSI), an organization 
dedicated to battling poverty conditions in 
Appalachia, is seeking support and volun­
teers from Pittsburgh’s college commun­
ities.
PAEFSI is a non-profit, non-political 
charitable organization which sponsors a 
number of year-round programs for the 
people of Knox County, Kentucky.
The need for support for PAEFSI is 
enormous. There are approximately 25,000 
people in Knox County, Kentucky. Seven­
ty percent of the families are poverty 
stricken, with 60% of the work force un­
employed. Almost 1/3 of the people are
illiterate, most have about a 4th grade edu­
cation. PAEFSI’s parent organization, 
Emergency Fund and Services, Inc. (EFSI) 
is a non- profit organization governed by 
an elected Board of Trustees which was 
formed in 1966 by Knox countians to 
serve persons in Knox County. Their major 
aims are to meet basic emergency needs 
and to provide opportunity, counseling, 
and guidance. Knox County is a commun­
ity in action, trying to overcome the 
vicious poverty cycle. The PAEFSI was in­
corporated in 1970 in order to provide a 
permanent organizational basis for Pitts­
burghers helping meet the needs of Appa­
lachia.
PAEFSI is seeking student volunteers to 
participate in their summer work program
running from the beginning of June to the 
end of August.
The program, one facet of the many 
activities sponsored by PAEFSI, had 300 
volunteers last summer and plans to have 
300-500 this year. The volunteers do phy­
sical labor such as repairing homes to make 
them livable for winter, digging wells, and 
painting. They also babysit, take elderly 
persons to the doctor, and write letters for 
people. Local groups finance their own 
trips and essentially support themselves 
during their stay in Knox County. They 
work in groups of about 10 people with 
one adult supervisor. Living facilities are 
cabins which hold 10-12 individuals.
Other concerns of PAEFSI include 
collecting clothes, furniture, and household
°*41 mco*°
Vtestrrraer
STEREO
RECORDS
[ADAMI) 
¡OIS II ¡AIO I 
ICOttlKI
©H. -tulli MU I ¿Ai
,._J
Cchoibousky Romances 
Irina flrkhipoiKi
COUPONS GOOD ON HUNDREDS OF OTHER WESTMINSTER ALBUMS INCLUDING
WGS-8100 -Best of Tchaikovsky: Philharmonic Orch., London-Vienna Opera
Orch. - The Utah Symphony Orch. Conductors: Rodzinski- 
Abravanel-Aliberti
WGS-8101 -Best of Beethoven: The London Symphony-Vienna Opera Orches­
tra-Pittsburgh Symphony. Conductors: Monteaux-Scherchen- 
Steinberg
WGS-8102 -Best of Bach: Vienna Opera Orch./Scherchen-G. Weinrich, V. Fox/
o rgan-Green house/cel lo-Mokas/piano
WGS-8104 -Best of Puccini for Orchestra: Vienna Opera Orchestra, Sy
Shaffer conducting.
WGS-8105 -Best Known Overtures: Vienna Opera Orchestra-Vienna Fes­
tival Orchestra. Conductors: Scherchen-Adler-Rudel 
WGM-8106 -Julian Breams Greatest Hits. Artist: Julian Bream
WGS-8107 -Virgil Fox's Greatest Hits. Artist: Virgil Fox
WGM-8113 -Julian Bream Plays Boch. Artist: Julian Bream
WGS-8125 -1812 Overture/Copriccio Italien/Capriccio Espanol: Vienna
Opera Orchestra-Deutschmeister Bonk/Abravanel conducting
WGS-8135 -Best of Chopin: piano: Fou Ts'ong/Wladyslaw Kedra/Paul Badura
Skoda Barbara Hesse-Bukowska.
WGS-8140 -Best of Moiart Piano: Jorge Demus/Fou Ts ong/Daniel Barenboim
WGS-8144 -Gregorian Chants: Recorded I ive at the Abbey of Encalcat in
France. Artist: Chorus of Monks from the Abbey of Encalcat
WGS-8145 -Virgil Fox Plays: The John Wanamaker Organ-Philadelphia
WGS-8148 -Virgil Fox "On Top Of " Bach
WGM-8150 -Vespers and Martins: Feodor Potorjinsky/Russian Choir 
WGS-8151 -Stravinsky: Petrouchka-Wm. Steinberg, Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra
WGS-8153 -Brahms: Symphony No. 2 in D, Op. 73-William Steinberg conduct­
ing the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
WGS-8222 -Vasilenko: Concerto for Balalaika and Orchestra/In Springtime- 
Suite for Flute and Orchestra, Opus 138/Necheporenko. 
balalaika/Korneyev, flute.
WGS-8226 -Tchaikovsiy: Sleeping Beauty /Excerpts from the Ballet/Bolshoi 
Theater Orch./Boris Khaikin, conductor.
WGM-8227 -Saint Saens: Concerto in A Minor, Op. 33/ Schumann: Concerto in 
A Minor, Op. 129 for Cello ond Orchestra. M. Rostropovich, cello
WGM-8231 -Rochmaninoff : Concerto #2 for Piano and Orchestro in C Minor, 
Op. #18 Symphony Orchestra of the Lenningrad State Phil­
harmonic conducted by Kurt Zanderling-Sviatoslav Richter, piano
WGM-8237 -Paganini: Concerto #1 for Violin and Orchestra in O Major, Op. 
6-Leonid Kogan, violin.
WGS-8224 -Tchaikovsky : Symphony #6 in B Minor Op. 79 Pathetique
Nattonal Symphonic Orchestra of the USSR conducted by C. 
Ivanov
WGM + 8254 -Rachmaninoff: Trio #2 for Piano, Violin and Cello in 0 Minor, Op.
9 "Elegiaque." Lev Oborin, piano. David Oistrahk, violin. S. 
Knushevitsky, cello.
NATIONAL RECORD MART PICK YOUR SAVINGS COUPON
SAVE 49« SAVE 98< SAVE $1.47
ON ONE RECORD
ON TWO RECORDS
ON THREE RECORDS
SAVE $1.96 SAVE $2.45 SAVE $2.94
ON FOUR RECORDS
ON FIVE RECORDS
ON SIX RECORDS
I
I
I
I
I
items for Knox County, providing a market 
for handmade mountain crafts, and spon­
soring a Charge Card Store Building Fund, 
a store in Knox County in which goods are 
exchanged for work-hours instead of 
money. The PAEFSI also does fund raising, 
has an Annual March for Hunger to raise 
funds for the Summer Work Program.
This year’s march will take place on 
March 23 at 10 a.m. Marches will begin at 
South Hills Village Shopping Center, 
Murphy-Mart, McKnight Road, Wexford, 
and Monroeville Miracle Mile Shopping 
Center. For information on sponsorship 
and other details, or for information about 
the Summer Work program, contact Lib­
erty Elyash at Mellon Institute, 621-1100, 
ext. 457, or Autocall 61 (telephone opera­
tor at M.I.).
Irish Lit Lecture
Seamus Deane, a scholar in Anglo-Irish 
literature, will speak in the Wherrett Room 
of Skibo this Monday night, March 18 at 
8:00 pm. His topic will be “Studies of Irish 
Dramatists.” Dr. Deane has been a Ful- 
bright Visiting Professor at Reed College 
and at the University of California at Berk­
ley. At present he is the Statutory Lecturer 
in the Department of English at University 
College, National University, in Dublin.
Dr. Deane’s most recent book is The 
French Enlightenment and Revolution in 
England, 1789-1832 (Oxford University 
Press). Last year his Gradual Wars a collec­
tion of poetry, won the AE Memorial Prize 
for Literature. He has a book on the mod­
ern novel under way for Chatto and Finlus. 
Two other studies on Irish dramatists have 
been accepted for publication by Pren- 
tice-Hall and the Carcanet Press (London).
Other articles by Dr. Deane have ap­
peared in Encounter, Cambridge Review, 
Journal of the History of Ideas, Revue de 
Litterature Comparee, Times Literary' Sup­
plement and many others.
His visit to Carnegie-Mellon, sponsored 
by the Departments of Student Activities, 
History, and English, is part of the Irish 
Fortnight program running from March 13 
to 26 at many Pittsburgh Institutions. This 
series of programs is announced elsewhere 
in the TARTAN.
Dr. Deane will be introduced by Dr. 
David Miller of CMLPs History Depart­
ment. Everyone is invited to the lecture; 
there is no charge.
If you just feel like talking, drop in or cafl 
Peer Help. 150-A Baker Hall, 687-7414.
AND MORE - NO LIMIT ON PURCHASE - SAVE 49« ON EACH RECORD
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
AMBERSON OFF 5th AVE. 682-4300
SUNDAY:
9:00 Worship Service 
9:30 Learning community (adults 
and children)
10:30 Community Worship 
Celebration 
11:00 Worship Service
Ms. Nano Chalfant, Campus StaffJ

---------------------------------------------------

ie 10—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
The Other Tuesday
Sharon Curdo
“Be egoistic, but less narcissistic,” urged 
audia Dreifus at the March 5 Women and 
adness Forum. “Value yourself above the 
test for love. Take good care of your- 
f—you belong to you.”
Ms. Dreifus is a freelance feminist writer 
io has written a number of books, 
omen’s Fate among them, and whose 
jrk has appeared in magazines from Cos- 
opolitan to The Nation.
Ms. Dreifus spoke about self-actualiza- 
)n for women, and the various pressures 
aced on women to accept a limiting role 
ther than striving for personal fulfill- 
ent.
To pull women out of the Zelda Fitz- 
rald syndrome, Ms. Dreifus suggested 
at women revalue work, and seek mean- 
gful work. She said that part of creating 
cial change is finding such a vocation, 
td that women should not replace the 
;ed for work with a hobby. She recog- 
zed, however, that factory women, a 
rge percentage of the total female labor 
»rce, have a “difficult time making the 
.sembly line your life’s obsession.”
“...one gender controls the 
economics and political des­
tiny of another in a society 
where you are what you 
earn.”
She began the lecture by commenting 
lat there was no way for a woman to walk 
trough this society without being person- 
ly insulted, and focused first upon one 
pect of women suffering invisibly: the 
omen confined to mental institutions, 
ne contends that society induces emo- 
onal instability in many women because 
ie only thing society actively encourages 
omen to do is become mothers. She 
mentioned that because children have be- 
ome the sole reason for a women’s exist- 
nce, motherhood has become a cult.
Ms. Dreifus asserted that not only are 
nany women tempermentally unsuited to 
notherhood, but that women are over- 
:ducated and over-prepared for this role 
vith society offering few alternative life- 
¿tyles to women. She claimed that women 
mcomfortable with this tradition and the 
mnatural role-playing, produces the guilt 
>f being poor mothers in addition to the 
uilt of unexpressed sexuality and person- 
¡ood. She added that men sentence, women 
mhappy with their roles to mental institti- 
ions against their wills because these 
•'omen don’t act the way men want them 
i act. Ms. Dreifus explained that the 
lock treatments, beatings, and insulin as 
art of the institutional care given to 
/omen happen to those who reflect the 
*cedrin-headache image, or display male 
aits like hostility and aggression.
Ms. Dreifus said that the charlatans of 
ie health profession, the analysts, diag- 
ose a woman’s problem as a rejection of 
er sexual role and usually recommend 
h.at she accept her feminity, and in more 
olite terms, tell her to be “passive and 
appy ”
Ms. Dreifus went on to say that society 
imprisons men and institutionalizes women 
for expressing opposite sex traits; women 
are confined for displaying hostility and 
aggression while men expressing non-John 
Wayne traits like gentleness, passivity, art 
creativity, and sensitivity are imprisoned. 
Ms. Dreifus explained that ironically 
enough, men, although afforded more lati­
tude by society to express erratic behavior, 
and who enjoy the channels of sports and 
business for aggression, have a higher 
suicide rate than women. She adds that the 
male oppressors not only deny women 
such outlets, but confine the women who 
reject motherhood in some way to institu­
tions. She cited a recent study, where half 
of the women from an institution tested 
proved to exhibit male tendencies like hos­
tility, aggression, and the use of “rough 
language.”
Ms. Dreifus pointed out that it was no 
accident that most women committed to 
institutions were between the ages of 35 to 
45 years old, and that these women STe at a 
/time in their lives when their usefulness has 
been expended, and when the years of 
boring repetitive household tasks and 
child-rearing have taken their toll. Ms. Drei­
fus commented that it was at this time 
that men decide to get a younger, “mold- 
able” woman to replace the expendable 
older woman and to conform to the image 
of a woman that they prefer. She remarked 
that women in the disposable consumer 
culture and thrown away like Kleenex after 
their usefulness is over. So, as she put it, 
women end up living for somebody else, 
their children, and that in this way a wo­
man’s body is not for her use or pleasure 
but for another’s use and pleasure. She 
humorously illustrated this by mentioning 
the decorative aspect of a woman’s body 
and added: “You could become a doctor in 
the time it takes for you to learn to curl 
your hair.”
“...society imprisions men and 
institutionalizes women for ex­
pressing opposite sex traits.”
Ms. Dreifus asserted that “one gender 
controls the economic and political destiny 
of another in a society where you are what 
you earn.” She then concluded that 
women are dependent on men not only for 
material needs and companionship, but also 
for social identity: a sense of who they are 
in this society.
She mentioned that sexual polarity and
the unnatural roles this imposes upon both 
men and women perpetrate myths to sub­
stantiate the established order. For ex­
ample, she cited that “women are told not 
to trust another woman” and that “every 
woman is out to get you,” in a vicious 
competition for men. “Women,” she as­
serted, “as powerless people react sympt­
omatically and powerless people are not 
nice to each other.” She reminded the aud­
ience that people with little opportunity to 
exert power begin petty rivalries among 
themselves.
“...no accident that most women 
committed to institutions were 
between the ages of 35 to 45...”
Asking women to “either struggle 
against or educate fathers, husbands, lovers 
and brothers,” Ms. Dreifus denied favoring 
the human liberation cause because “we 
can’t love our oppressors too much.” 
Carrying this a bit further, she admitted 
disliking men as a class but loving several 
men individually. Presently, Ms. Dreifus is 
separated from her (former) psychologist 
husband, Sidney Weinheimer.
Ms. Dreifus maintains that economics 
creates social codes, and cited a few histor­
ical examples to illustrate how political 
revolutions failed the women’s cause. She 
said that Stalin had reversed the gains 
Soviet women had made in Russia’s Lenin­
ist revolution, and made them “cows,” 
mother “heroines” awarded medals for 
having large families when Stalin decided 
that Russia needed more people. She used 
the example of the Algerian revolution to 
show how revolutions have often forced 
women back into traditional roles. Ms. 
Dreifus explained that when the French 
ruled Algeria women had achieved a 
measure of independence and autonomy, 
yet after the nationalists won, they re­
established Moslem values and shoved 
women once again behind the veil. In our 
own country Ms. Dreifus indicated that 
before World War II there were laws pre­
venting women from working in the 
factories, but when the war erupted and 
industry needed manpower, these laws 
were hastily repealed and “Rosie the 
Riveter” became a symbol for patriotic 
women to emulate.
As far as environments conducive to the 
women, Ms. Dreifus indicated that the city 
offered the most freedom and mobility. 
She believes that suburbs are not commun­
ities, but instead isolate women from each 
other and make them dependent on their 
husbands for companionship and emotion­
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
50's SOCIAL
at POINT PARK COLLEGE
Saturday March 16 — 9 p.m.
REFRESHMENTS
Locations: 3rd FLOOR SNACK BAR 
LAWRENCE HALL( POINT PARK COLLEGE
(Cost: 25«)
al sustenance. She mentioned that rebel­
lious young women from small towns in 
the eastern U.S. migrate to New York 
where they find within the city’s support­
ive subcultures a place to re-establish con­
trol over their own lives, a place where a 
new lifestyle can be realized. She feels that 
cities planned for social needs will get 
women out of the rut of suburban isola­
tion. As for how women in suburbs could 
break the lonliness, Ms. Dreifus re­
commended, “Get to know your neigh­
bors.”
Lastly, she gave college women a few 
pointers, asking them to toss aside tradi­
tion and relate to each other by comparing 
experiences in consciousness- raising 
groups. She stresses that women should 
learn to turn to each other for emotional 
support and share their feelings about 
death, old age, and role society pressures 
them into playing.She cautioned, “Don’t marry young,
and don’t marry the first man that asks 
you. College women have opportunity- 
live!” She advised women to arrange a for­
mal marriage contract, since “men seem 
only to respect the printed word” and have 
it stipulate who will have responsibility for 
the children, or what property will be in 
whose name. She smiled as she urged 
women to keep their porperty in their own 
names.
She repeated how important it would be 
for women to resist the traditional press­
ures to marry and bear children, if women 
were to bring about any real change, and 
remove the oppressor’s stumbling blocks. 
She talked about the importance of person­
al dignity, and about what women could 
do to lead happier, healthier lives. She 
closed by assuring the audience that 
women with the privilege of education will 
certainly extend themselves to find more 
fulfillment in a world where men are the 
other half of the universe with license to 
act irrationally.
The PINNACLE of Pizza Parlors
¦«l®»
• The BEST Pitxp in Pgh. ft
1) Dough & sauce made fresh daily on 
the premises—pre-packaged shells 
are not used.
2) Only the best (fresh) ingredients 
are used.
3) Owner operated—Ma cares.
4) Cleanliness is maintained.WE DELIVER
Centre at Craig621-6755
RUGS
FOR
LESS
with your 10 Card 
9 x 12s $15,$19,$29,$39 
also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs furry rugs 
and bedspreads. Low prices oriental rugs in 
many sizes.
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
10 a m 8 p.m. Sat, 'til 5 
For directions call 621 1025
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut 
Shadyside
- a*»' ; ÈtÊfrÉL -

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974-Page 1 1
Focus on Tenure: Part III
“We loves ’em / we loves ’em not”
by A. Adler
The recent and controversial series of 
tenure decisions centering on H&SS seems 
to have opened up a new area of scholarly 
investigation: dismissal theory.
This infant discipline attempts to un­
cover the historical and motivational 
factors involved in the dismissal of certain 
H&SS faculty members. Major theoret­
icians, often in conflict with one another, 
see the dismissals variously as an attempt 
quietly to modify the status of H&SS, as a 
means of contracting H&SS faculty and 
thereby saving money, as a bureaucratic
“There is a built-in safety 
valve in the fact that students 
are only here for four years. .
morass, or as the expression of an orderly 
process of academic decision-making.
The position that certain faculty mem­
bers have been denied tenure or promotion 
as part of a larger intent to transform 
H&SS into a “service” college catering to 
the needs of the other colleges was first 
publicly expressed by the English Depart­
ment Student Advisory Committee (SAC), 
which stated, in an open letter to the TAR­
TAN (February 12), “It seems to us that it 
(the refusal of tenure to English Professor 
Russell Brignano) can only be a result of an 
attempt to effectively reduce the quality of 
‘humanities’ teaching here at C-MU. Notice 
that the History Department will soon have 
no ancient, medieval, or renaissance histor­
ians . . . The Psychology Department 
recently released five of its best teachers, 
and seems rapidly to be turning into a 
computer or statistics department . . . And 
when the English Department fires all of its 
young professors in a few years, it can go 
back to being a service department, teach­
ing engineers the fine art of writing re­
search papers.”
A member of the English Department^ 
theorized further, “There’s a policy com­
mittee. It’s made up of administration and 
faculty people, hand-picked by Cyert . a 
possibility that that group has looked at 
may be a self-fulfilling prophecy: that this 
university hot teach students, but become
a research institute .. . Quite obviously, 
under that configuration, there would be 
no place for traditional humanists. The 
mere mention of that possibility seems to 
me to indicate that it’s an idea in some­
body’s head. And if it’s an idea, it may be 
that if the heads involved have power, that 
really they’re going to fulfill that proph­
ecy, which obviously means that first the 
traditional humanities would be reduced to 
service roles and, then, eventually, elimin­
ated entirely.”
Provost Arnold Weber, who presides 
over H&SS as well as GSIA and SUPA, 
enumerated the administrative response to 
such theories: “One, discussions between 
Dean Steinberg (of H&SS), myself, and 
President Cyert were instrumental in 
getting them (H&SS) the Heinz professor­
ship in history, which is a major appoint­
ment involving a considerable amount ot 
resources .,. . Secondly, as far as their bud­
get was concerned, there were several slots 
that were on a temporary basis reflecting 
previous grants in the H&SS area. The 
grants expired; the question now was 
should we fund it on a permanent 
basis? ... We did that . . . There were also 
two requests which came to me for con­
tinued fellowship support for the Doctor 
of Arts program in both history and 
English, and they were both approved . . . 
which seems to me a demonstrable proof 
that no one wants to turn them into a 
service department.”
President Cyert also dismissed the “ser­
vice department” theory as “nonsense,” 
declaring that “there is absolutely no in­
tention of making it (H&SS) a service 
department. I have said that explicitly,. . . I 
just don’t have to operate on some con­
spiracy basis. If I want to make humanities 
into a service department, I’ll do it open­
ly”Cyert’s declaration of openness was 
undercut, however, by a C-MU historian 
who remarked, “Certainly, in this kind ot 
an atmosphere where the TARTAN is run­
ning editorials about what’s happening to 
the H&SS, students are very upset, and a 
lot of people are very upset, so nobody’s 
going to come out and say, ‘You know, 
you’re right ; we are winding that operation 
down. Everybody is going to be out in the 
cold’ . . . And there is a built-in kind of
safety-valve in the fact that students are 
only here for four years ... So, say that 
you’re a concerned junior now. By the 
time the decision you’re worrying about is 
fully operable, you’ll be out maybe one or 
two years.”
An alternate dismissal theory, according 
to one English professor, states, “One way 
to avoid deficits is to reduce numbers of 
faculty. In essence, make them responsible 
for more students and more work ... If 
you have to cut costs and you expect costs 
to rise, and you don’t expect a great deal 
of expansion in student numbers, one thing 
you can do is attempt to keep a faculty 
without really raising its remuneration.” 
Applied, this means that the dismissed 
H&SS faculty members were the victims of 
administrative belt-tightening.
While conceeding that “no university 
ever has enough money,” Dean Erwin 
Steinberg of H&SS stated, “If there was no 
money for these people we would simply 
say to them, ‘Your contract has to end 
next year because we don’t have any 
money to support you. If these two 
people (Brignano and Associate Professor 
John Renaldo, both of whom were refused 
tenure) leave ... we will hire two people 
in their place. We are not contracting 
H&SS faculty.”
Asked why H&SS faculty salaries were 
considerably lower than those of other 
colleges, Steinberg explained, “What hap­
pens is that you wind up paying what the 
market demands that you pay. And one
“The English Department. . .can go 
back to being a service department 
teaching engineers the fine art of 
writing research papers.”
way you find out whether you’re not pay­
ing the right amount is, if you’re paying 
too little you begin losing faculty members 
in a hell of a hurry.”
One English professor put it another 
way: “As a commodity, we are in great 
supply. Consequently, beggars can’t be 
choosers.”
The administrative dismissal theory was 
stated by Provost Weber: “It struck me 
(that) there was a full measure of due pro­
cess. There was a positive, almost 
excruciating effort to get a wide range of 
opinions both inside and outside the uni­
versity. I was also impressed by the fact 
that people took their responsibilities ser­
iously at evety level, including the univer­
sity level.”
“It isn’t a question of being malicious or 
capricious,” added Steinberg. “We spent 
hours and hours and hours discussing all of 
these cases collectively and then one by 
one, first at the department level, then the 
university level.”
A faculty member replied, however, “It 
would be presumptuous, I think, of admin­
istrators who don’t know anything about a 
field to make these decisions about the 
quality of work . . . They make decisions, 
but not necessarily decisions that are judg­
ments concerning quality of work. The 
decisions may involve the inner structure 
of the university, the future of the univer­
sity in terms of numbers, in terms of sexual 
balance, something of that sort.”
Weber disagreed. “If it was in high- 
energy physics-and I know almost nothing 
about high-energy physics—it would be 
difficult for me to determine directly 
whether a person’s research in this area 
made a major contribution. On the other 
hand, I can get ten outside letters, a review 
of his teaching, an assessment of his 
resume, call on other expert opinions in 
physics and make a decision that I would 
think would be pretty sensible.”
Regardless of which theoretical per­
ception is most correct, dissatisfaction with 
the fact of the H&SS dismissals is evident 
in the letter, signed by every English de­
partment faculty member and sent to 
President Cyert, which stated in part, “We 
protest this reversal (of the department’s 
and college’s favorable recommendation of 
Brignano). It is a serious blow to the 
growth of our department’s professional 
reputation. It undermines our belief in the 
university’s ability or willingness to recog­
nize excellence in our field.”
(A more complete discussion of admin­
istration position and criticisms of it can be 
found in parts I and II of this series: TAR­
TANS of February 19 and March 5.)
To which Cyert reacted, “It’s like some­
one saying, ‘You don’t love me.’ Well, how 
do you prove your love?”
The Numbers Game T a a .9 10,000,007 words
, r*-, 3*S> o 000,008

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
Merger to Cut Waste Streak Three
continued from p. 1
has always existed a fear on the part of the 
women that men were trying to dominate 
them. I think that now most people realize 
that we are trying to create one unified 
organization that is more effective than 
either of the two existing independent or­
ganizations.”
Elsbeth cited two reasons for that turn­
about. “The issues where you’d get the fear 
of the men ... are not that often,” and 
the women now on Council “are not going 
to let anyone run the show.”
SDC will also be divided into two sub­
councils. One will represent residents of 
the Hill Dorms; the other, all dorm resi­
dents north of Forbes. These sub-councils 
will deal with problems relating specifically 
to their areas, like special maintenance 
complaints.
Each sub-council will elect its own 
chairman. These chairmen become Vice- 
Presidents on the SDC Executive Board. A 
President, Treasurer and Secretary will be 
elected by the group as a whole.
Elections are scheduled for this Sun­
day’s (March 17) meeting. Elsbeth ex­
pressed hope that “people take an interest 
in who’s being nominated.”
Both MDC and WDC have been holding 
off their own elections in expectation of 
the merger. “It will be easier to get the 
officers for joint council from scratch,” 
Elsbeth explained. She also said that the 
merger would help general administration 
in the Council by “freeing more people 
who are willing to work,” but are currently 
wasting time performing parallel functions 
in the two separate groups.
Three months of work went into plan­
ning SDC. There were few major problems 
because the WDC Constitution had been 
modeled after the already- existing MDC 
Constitution. “That made the job a lot 
easier,” Elsbeth said. “Both constitution? 
were relatively close on most everything.”
Specific compromises involved the pro­
cedure for electing officers, vote quorums, 
and attendance.
Results of the March 3 referendum 
vote: 273 ballots returned, 199 yes votes, 
15 no votes, and 59 abstentions. There are 
almost 500 women living in Morewood and 
Mudge. Elsbeth was “totally surprised” at 
the high turnout.
photo by Arons 
Bob Linn, former president of MDC
continued from p. 3
Now we've been streaking quite a white now and / know you’ve been 
waiting for this one. But even if we don’t make it tonight, / want you to 
feel you’ve done your best. In the long run that’s all that really matters. 
Now, get out there and give them hell!”
It was a short message, but a good one. There wasn’t a dry eye in the 
locker room. Now it was my turn. “WEII, you heard the man, give 'em 
hell!” The locker room burst into the noise of applause and cheers as we 
started running outside. Just as / was about to follow everyone out, / 
noticed one of the men sitting alone on the bench gazing at the floor. He 
still was wearing his socks.
“First streak, kid?”
“Yes, sir, ” he sniffled.
“Well, buck up. We all went through this. ”
He looked up at me with his big, wet rookie eyes. “YES, SIR!” he 
screamed in my face and, throwing off his socks as he got up, he ran 
through the door and into the night. We gave them our best that night. 
Skins took the bus to the Monroeville Mall and went ice skating. Dangles 
hitchhiked to Erie to see his girlfriend. Butts and Floyd ate a lobster 
dinner at the Red Coach Inn. / tried to get served at the State Store in 
Shady side but was carded. Even the rookie managed to watch a basketball 
game at Pitt. It was a good night, but we wouldn’t know how good until 
the next night.
It turned out to be the upset of the year. Nothing materialized at 
Cornell and the University of Wisconsin had taken a wrong turn and ended 
up in Fond du Lac. A t Duquesne, Boots went a bit too far and ended up 
joining the Coast Guard for a ten-year hitch. We managed to make KDKA, 
and ABC dosed their late wrap-up with us, but Cron kite chose Berkeley, 
where three hundred streakers ran into the administration building and 
took over the President’s office.
/ was dropped as captain of the team, Skins broke his leg the next week 
streaking through a lacrosse practice, and Floyd was out for two weeks 
with a cold. The word from upstairs was we had it.
PRE­SPRINGAUDIO SALE!
CW) Piorvieer*'
BLANK TAPE SPECIAL
MEMOREX C-90 NEW MRX2
ONLY $1^47
5 PER LIMIT CUSTOMER
OiD PIONEERSX 82 8 
RECEIVER
60RMS PER> : y > ti •* ni I *> ^
CASSETTE DECK 
WITH DOLBY 
REG. $269
I$l99
Sfortitta
SYSTEM SPECIAL!
(CHANNEL REG.$499. 9^
*362
SX424 
RECEIVER 
with Tape Monitor $199.95
^OAX TOTAL TURNTABLE 
with Shure magnetic cartridge
nd protective dust cover. 80.00
SEE
THE LARGEST
DISPLAY OF
FABULOUSnWniosb
"The Best Audio 
Equipment
(2) PROJECT 80 
SPEAKERS
239.95
tweete10" woofer, soft cone
walnut with brown grill front
F
AKAI
172 1 L
REEL TO 
REEL TAPE DECK 
2 ONLY
ROTEI?MANUFACTURER'S LIST PRICE $419.90
Made_______> > ¦> •) }RX154 
CHANNEL RECEIVER 
WATTS REG. $15
$Panasonic!
REG.
$299
S * “
BUILT-IN SQ DECODER$289.95
8 TRACK RECORDER 
WITH FM 
STEREO ONLYS^ÇÇg*199
UPSTAIRS
3713 FORBES AVE. .OAKLAND SECOND FLOOR ACROSS FROM McDONALDS 681-4560 
STORE HOURS 11 AM-6 PM TUES. , WED. , SAT. & 11 AM-9PM MON. , THURS. , FRI.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 12, 1974-Pagp 13
MAKE THAT BIG DAY 
IN YOUR LIFE 
2 BIG DAYS
^ RECEIVE A DEGREE FROM
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIV.
PLUS
^ A COMMISSION AS A LIEUTENANT 
IN THE U.S. ARMY
KEEP YOUR CAREER OPTIONS OPEN
\ \ ¦ \ a"‘ *' ! !fr «‘ • . T ‘-'v
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
DIRECTOR FOR ENROLLMENT, ROTC DEPT. 
ROOM 203, GYM, 621-2600 x 281/282
¦NMH»

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
THEATRE
A Talk With M/IRK FROST
by Susan N. Klein
There is something very refreshing 
about a theatre person who has a tenacious 
grip on reality. Mark Frost, a junior play­
wright, has just had his play selected as one 
of the four or five Mainstage shows slated 
for production1 next year by the Drama 
Department, something that rarely happens 
to an undergraduate opus. That this is an 
impressive honor and accomplishment for a 
20 year old Minnesota boy who last year 
was majoring in directing and who two 
years ago was a freshman actor, is under­
stood. Mark is flattered and proud, but 
when he asserts with a shrug that he’d 
sometimes rather be out dealing with the 
reality of a basketball game, he is very 
convincing,
“I’d like to talk about the Drama 
Department basketball team. We have such 
a good record, and we never get any pub­
licity for it. We have tee-shirts embossed 
with little tragedy and comedy masks.” 
Mark Frost was raised in a theatrical 
family, a fact which he says accounts for 
his somewhat ambivalent attitude toward 
the frantic existance of the theatre. His 
father is Warren Frost, an actor, director 
and stage manager who is widely known 
for his work both in national television and 
at the Tyrone Guthrie Theatre Center in 
Minneapolis; and his mother is a former 
actress turned teacher.
“ I’ve been saturated with theatre all my 
life. Until I was 12 we lived in Southern 
California, with the movie and television
stars falling off the trees. Once I had lunch 
with Dick Van Dyke, who swore alot; I 
met Andy Griffith, who was fat, and I 
played on the set with Don Knotts’ kid. I 
guess it was fun for a kid. In first grade I 
was on Art Linkletter’s House Party and I 
hated it because he asked the kids all the 
questions before the show; the “spontan­
eous questions” were fixed. So on camera I 
just stared at him. and they thought that 
was so adorable they asked me to do an­
other show. They gave me a trampoline 
which broke, and a pair of tennis shoes 
with Lassie on the ankles. Now I’d just like 
to live on a farm and raise sheepdogs in 
Minnesota.”
Mark resembles the sheepdogs he wants 
to raise; he is ensconced behind big glasses 
and his mop of brown sheepdog-shaggery, 
and he bops around bedecked from head to 
toe in den;m, his back knap-sacked. Like a 
lot of fast-talking, articulate writers, every­
thing he says seems to be playing from a 
tape- recorder in his mouth, while his mind 
is off somewhere hatching plots. Some­
thing mind-boggling is the fact that Mark 
has already written 15 full-length plays in 
his comparatively short life-time, all of 
them unique, unrelated and unrepeating in 
theme and situation.
“Something I’ve always had is a propen­
sity for working out complicated plots. I 
wrote two novels when 1 was a kid, so 
writing is something I’ve just always done; 
it’s not a profession to me; it’s like another 
arm.
“When I came to Carnegie-Mellon, the
first thing I discovered was that I didn’t 
want to be an actor at all, then I discovered 
I didn’t want to be a director, either. 
Writing was what I wanted to do. I can’t 
write the “Dope and Dormitory” fiction 
most kids are writing. Dope and dormitory 
fiction doesn’t get published; nobody 
wants to read that. It’s frightening that 
many students just aren’t willing to write 
about the outside world.”
The Drama Department will do Hard 
News, a play about a newspaper office, 
which Mark researched by working around 
a newspaper office for several weeks 
gathering the hard facts of the journalism 
business, gleaning details for interesting 
characters before beginning any scenario 
work. The play will be directed by acting 
teacher Jewel Walker, and Mark is current­
ly revising a second draft of the three-act 
opus.
“I don’t think there’s anything wrong 
with theatre for entertainment’s sake. A 
play like Oiampionship Season is well- 
written, with down-to-earth characters, but 
nobody writes plays like that anymore; I’m 
waiting for Jason Miller to write another 
play. What’s important is that the play­
wright work with the pure craft of the 
form; work out scenarios, character 
studies, plot analysis. This story sums it 
up: Georges Feydeau had been working 
very hard on a play for a while. When 
asked if he’d finally finished, he replied
one day, “Oh yes, the play’s all finished. 
Now all I have to do is write the dialogue.”
“Hard News is a melodrama, not in the 
perjorative sense, not like Under the Gas­
light', it’s an old-fashioned play of the 
Front Page genre, only modern. I’m dis­
gusted with all the plays like Pinter’s Old 
Times; plays where somebody has an 
affair so consequently everybody sits 
around a parlor talking about it and that’s 
all that happens.”
The original draft of Hard News, dis­
counting the time it was researched, took 
close to a month of writing for at least four 
hours a day. Professor Leon Katz of the 
Drama Department worked as an advisor 
with Mark on the play. When asked if he 
was surprised at the selection of Hard 
News, Mark allowed himself a smile. “Well, 
yes and no. I guess I had a feeling, but that 
was because I knew that not many student 
plays had been submitted for consideration 
this year, as a result of the bad experience 
with last year’s Fellowship student play. 
An advantage I had was that unlike in some 
cases of student writing, the jurors didn’t 
have to first decide whether Hard News 
even was a play. Both Jewell and I believe 
that the play has a potentially large appeal, 
which is so important.”
If Hard News is pure entertainment, I 
wondered, how would it work as a 
musical-comedy in five years? Mark 
answered with a grimace and a groan.
“I would kill before I’d let that happen 
to one of my plays. The only thing that’s
worse than musical comedy to me is opera; 
I never saw a musical I didn’t hate. Well, 
with the exception of She Loves Me, which 
was done here during my freshman year. 
The reason for that exception is that I was 
on run crew which meant I had to see 
the show twelve times. I realized that if I 
didn’t start to like it I’d go crazy. I hate 
musical comedy simply because it’s not 
real—people just don’t sing..”
Mark’s penchant for the real will hope­
fully provide him with a never-ending 
source for the solid, meat-and-potatoes 
drama the theatre has been missing the 
taste of for so long. He refuses to ever 
write for television, which he claims lacks 
all “integrity.”
“There can be a great deal of integrity 
in writing for the theatre, if it is ap­
proached the right way. You’ve got to 
write with confidence and without com­
promise. Theatre will survive because 
people are willing to enjoy good, carefully- 
written plays. And if nobody wants to 
write them, well, I’ve just always assumed 
I’d do it myself.”
At the moment, Mark divides most of 
his time between re-writing Hard News and 
being disgusted with the fact that he’s cast 
in a lead role for a Studio Theatre pro­
duction in order to fulfill the acting-credit 
requirement of his playwriting option; his 
interest in acting is now non-existant.
“I have to do the rock-singer in The 
Tooth of Crime by Sam Shepard; a play 
and a playwright 1 have little respect for. I 
think I’ll be losing a little respect for my­
self, a little part of myself when I do the 
role.”
Mark shrugged and sighed and looked 
out the window. “It’s things like that that 
make me want to just play basketball.”
Nocturne
orange clouds
slide across the moon
shadows hide
the concrete prodigy
that taught the swamp-bound Shenango
to sing high songs
through its sluice gates
your hair and mine 
tangled in brown weeds ' 
perfume merges 
into earth-scent 
bodies to vines 
sweet breeze 
brings a distant diesel 
throb
I thank
the Corps of Engineers 
and Sharon Steel 
for leaving such a fine 
hillside wild 
to make love 
upon
Steve Perkins

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974-Page 15
RHINO FUNGUS
by Mark Evan Chimskv
Rhinoceros is the funniest horror film 
I’ve ever seen. Based on the play by Eugene 
Ionesco, this American Film Theatre pro­
duction couples absurdist comedy with a 
darkly serious statement concerning man 
and conformity. We watch as a cultured, 
rather prissy diletante named John slowly 
succumbs to the newest plague sweeping 
the country: Rhinoceritis. Afflicted men 
and women everywhere sprout horns and 
begin to speak in raspy grunts. Suddenly, 
the human is the enemy; to be exter­
minated at all costs. The supremacy of the 
master race, that of the rhino, and the 
‘liquidation' of man provides the Final 
Solution. All sound a bit familiar?
Hauntingly so. Ionesco paints with light, 
deft strokes this personal vision of what 
happens when a Hitler or a Mussolini pops 
up, and man turns animal in order to sur­
vive.
The wildly brisk dialogue hints only 
slightly at harsh and dissonant under­
currents, and that is what makes 
Rhinoceros so effective. One feels as 
though Ionesco has given us free reign to 
interpret what the consuming Rhinoceritis 
is all about. I substituted the word “Nazi” 
for “rhinoceros” and the film made 
shuddering sense. The final moments detail 
the heroic hopelessness of the last human 
left, raging at his new world and clinging to
521-1200
421-4500
Philip Pelusi 
superáis
1814 Murray Ave. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 1 5217
For Men & Women
a moribund identity. Ionesco’s parable is 
no longer comic, but a sad elegy of the 
inherent human weakness of us all. We will 
become anything, even what we fear, if it 
guarantees our survival. A chilling and all- 
too-true theme neatly masked by sharp 
witticisms and a fine madeness, bordering 
on the edge of sanity.
Rhinoceros has been translated into 
cinematic terms by that brilliant innovator 
of the stage, Tom (Hair, Jesus Christ 
Superstar, Lenny) O’Horgan. He achieves a 
hysterical spontaneity that contrasts 
beautifully with the razor-edged concept 
lurking behind the words. Except for a 
dubious dream sequence, which blatantly 
demonstrates Ionesco’s essential point, 
O’Horgan has fashioned a true tragic- 
comedy with breezy skill.
This is the film in which we get to see 
Zero Mostel turn into a rhinoceros right
before our eyes. He carries out the meta­
morphosis with a desperate accuracy which 
would have made Kafka proud. We cannot 
resist believing in the reality he imposes on 
us. His round countenance contorts into a 
monstrous howl of a being. He shapes his 
huge talent, using all the shticks of a 
master comedian, into something fierce 
and funny.
Yet the picture belongs to Gene Wilder, 
who plays John’s ‘infallibly human’ friend. 
There is an urgency about his performance 
which garners our sympathy; his defiant 
separateness echoes the cry ot six million 
who perished for no other crime but 
“being.” Wilder charts his portrayal with a 
care that renders the last scene magnifi­
cent. Wilder and Mostel share, like fellow 
thieves, the stealing of the picture.
The supporting cast enhances the film's 
ultimate worth; among them are Karen 
Black, playing another dizzy-blonde- 
secretary-goddess, and Marilyn Chris as the 
wife of one of the more rowdy rhinos. Joe 
Silver is simply hilarious as a befuddled 
accountant with various latent leanings.
The film’s technics are honed to artful 
perfection. The screen play, adapted from 
Ionesco’s French by Julian Barry, sparkles 
with a whimsy that is necessary for this 
kind of absurdist work. I also particularly 
like the soundtrack music by Galt 
MacDermot (the composer of Hair - 
remember him?). He captures, in song, the 
biting satire of Ionesco’s dialogue.
Credit the American Film Theatre with 
a hit this time around. With Rhinoceros 
Ely Landau redeems himself and more than 
compensates for the previous venture (or 
should I say mistake?) called I.ost in the 
Stars. Rhinoceros entertainingly invites us 
to examine our need to follow a leader, 
whether good or bad, and no matter at 
whose expense. The film is as significant as 
its message. Laugh and learn-we must 
never forget.
EVERY DAY 
OF THE WEEKSAVE AT EMERSONS
Each Adult Member of Your Party
PITCHER OF BEER
INCLUDED IN PRICE OF MEAL
-------------PLUS------------
ALL THE SALAD 
YOU CAN MAKE
-------------PLUS------------
X
OUR TENDER JUICY
SIRLOIN
STEAKBURGER
ALL FOR JUST’2.95
More than V2 lb. of 
Ground Steak with 
French Fries
EMERSONS, Ltd.
unlimited steak dinners
NORTH HILLS. PA. 931 6706
4611 McKmght Road
MONROEVILLE, PA. 824-1440
3500 William Penn Highway (Rt. 22)
mu*v( usw w \m
E
THE LATIN AMERICAN CLUB 
PRESENTS
"The Ideology 
of the Tupamaros"
a lecture on the film
State of Seige 
Thursday, March 14th 7:30 p.m. Wherrett Room
funded by AB Programming Committee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 12, 1974
Kiltie Concert The Kiltie Symphony Band 
of Carnegie-Mellon University will present 
their annual President’s Concert on Sun­
day, March 17th, at 8:00 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. The concert is free, 
and will feature the preview of Leonardo 
Balada’s new work, Concerto for Piano, 
Winds and Percussion, Edward Madden’s 
Carnegie Fantasia, and in honor of the 
great George Gershwin’s 75th birthday, his 
Rhapsody in Blue.
Dame Judith Anderson Dame Juditn 
Anderson will present a special dramatic 
reading from the plays and poems of 
Shakespeare and Robinson Jeffers (strange 
combination?) on March 29th in Carnegie 
Music Hall in Oakland. Tickets are $3, $4, 
and $5 and are available at the Poetry 
Forum Office.
The WRCT-FM/88.3 Radio Lineup:
Clip this out and save it for future 
reference.
Monday
4:00 pm Frank Napoli-harmonic pro­
gressions with emphasis on 
guitarists.
7:00 pm The WRCT news team present 
campus, state, national and 
international news. Headlines 
presented on the half hour.
7:45 pm Radio Reader-Ken Kesey’s
“One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s 
Nest” will be read (starting 
Monday, March 11).
8:00 pm Sue Zimmerman--would rather 
be anywhere else but in your 
radio.
11:00 pm Late night news.
11:15 pm Alex Lewis-rocking soul with 
just enough of Billboard’s Top 
40 to make things interesting.
The Preservation Hall Jazz Band will appear at Heinz Hall on March 17th.
Glory, Glory Stanley Kubrick’s 1957 war 
film, Paths of Glory, which was recently 
selected as one of the sixty best films in 
movie history, will be shown in the Wher- 
ret Room of Skibo on Sunday, March I7th 
at 7:00 and 9:30, admission 75 cents. The 
film is still banned in France. Paths of 
Glory is seen as part of the American Film 
Retrospective Series.
Poetry Forum The next guests at the Inter­
national Poetry Forum in Carnegie Library 
will be new poets Philip Appleman, William 
Heyen, and the winner of the United States 
Award for 1973, Judith Minty. Tickets are 
$1.75 for students and are available at the 
department stores and at the Forum box 
office in Oakland. The reading will take 
place on March 20th at 8:15 p.m.
Graphics Exhibit Beginning March 12 in 
Hunt Botanical Library, there will be a free 
show of the work of twenty-three graphic 
and industrial design students who are sen­
iors at C-MU. The show will run until 
March 21st, and the exhibit will be open 
Monday through Friday, from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m.
Marceau Marcel Marceau, the greatest living 
pantomimist, will appear at Heinz Hall on 
Sunday, March 31 as part of his tenth tour 
of the U. S. There is bound to be great 
demand for tickets. Ticket prices are $7, 
$6, and $5, and are available at the box 
office, and at the major department stores, 
as well as at the Pitt Book Store. A special 
Student ID discount is available with tick­
ets purchased at Heinz Hall. Call 281-8185 
for further information.
Preservation Hair Jazz The magnificent 
Preservation Hall Jazz Band will appear at 
Heinz Hall on March 17 at 7:30 p.m. The 
band features Jim Robinson on trombone, 
now 82 years old, considered to be the top 
New Orleans trombonist alive. Tickets are 
$4.50, $5.50, and $6.50, and are available 
at the department stores, as well as at Pitt 
Book Store. There will be a student ID 
discount on tickets purchased at the box 
office. Call 281-8185 for further informa­
tion.
Attic Mongo Santamaria will be the next 
featured performer at Walt Harper’s Attic 
in Market Square, beginning March 18th. 
The engagement will run six days, and the 
bongo-drummer will do three shows night­
ly*
Theatre in America In Fashion, a musical 
farce written, staged, and performed by 
members of the Actor’s Theatre of Louis­
ville, will be presented on WQED Thurs­
day, March 14th at 8:00 p.m. In Fashion is 
based upon the play Tailleur pour Dames 
by Georges Feydeau, and should not be 
confused with Fashion, the new musical 
comedy currently running in New York.
On Saturday, March 16th at 8:00 p.m., 
QED is running the tape of The Anderson- 
ville Trial, the excellent film made a few 
years back; directed by George C. Scott, 
written by Emmy and Peabody award win­
ner Saul Levitt. The film has an excellent 
cast—look for especially good perform­
ances by Jack Cassidy and Martin Sheen.
Besides the usual 4-7, 8-11 and 11-2 
shows, WRCT-FM/88.3 presents the fol­
lowing special shows for its listening 
audience:
Tuesday, March 12: Greg McKenna and 
David Cates, two CMU students, will read 
and discuss their poetry with Arnie Karr on 
“Two Poets” from 7 to 7:30 pm.
Wednesday, March 13: The leaders of 
WRCT-FM will discuss the station’s conver­
sion to FM and what it means for owners 
of FM radios. Join Sue Zimmerman on 
Perspective:CMU when she interviews 
Frank Napoli, Arnie Karr and Dave 
Hochendonner at 6:30 pm.
Thursday, March 14: Is there a Gap? Yes, 
and Arnie Karr proves it on “Comedy” 
when he presents the humor of the Cred­
ibility Gap from 7 to 7:30 pm.
Saturday, March 16: Having a party? Let 
WRCT-FM provide the music on “A.A.’s 
Party Time.” Just dial 621-9728 and re­
quest the music you want to hear and set 
your FM dial to 88.3 from 8 pm. till 2 am. 
for the party.
Sunday, March 17: For your listening 
pleasure, Studebacher Hoch will feature 
the new Commander Cody album, Live 
from Deep in the Heart of Texas, on 
“Album Spotlight” from midnight to 2 am.
Monday, March 18: Steve Greene’s “Jazz 
Fusion” will feature the work of John 
McLaughlin from 7 to 7:30 pm.
Tuesday 
4:00 pm
7:00 pm
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 
8:00 pm
11:00 pm 
11:15 pm
Gary Bronheim-with music to 
eat dinner by.
Arnie Karr hosts a series of 
poets who will read and discuss 
their work.
News
Radio Reader
Andy Beary-concentrates on a 
random group of artists each 
week.
News
Ralph Guggenheim-likes his 
gin straight.
Friday 
4:00 pm
6:00 pm 
7:00 pm
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 
8:00 pm 
12:00 am
Skipper Fischer-TGIF on the 
radio, light and lively. A great 
way to start the weekend.
Ron Smith-begins.
Mitch Greenberg presents 
written works by the world’s 
greatest humorists, on “Didja 
Hear the One About”.
News
Radio Reader
Ron Smith-continues.
Sal Paradise-bringing you to 
the heights of auditory ecstasy.
Wednesday 
6:30 pm
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 
8:00 pm
11:00 pm 
11:15 pm
Thursday
4:00 pm
7:00 pm
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 
8:00 pm 
11:00 pm 
11:15 pm
Perspective CMU-Sue Zimmer­
man hosts a long list of infor­
mative and fascinating guests 
who are “in the Know”.
News
Radio Reader
Martha Allison-rolling the rock 
around.
News
John Craun-emphasizing 
British musicians.
Kevin Dreyer-his music speaks 
for itself.
Comedy-join Arnie Karr cause 
the laughs will do you good. 
News
Radio Reader
Karen Asin-she bites the lemon. 
News
Studebacher Hoch-boldly 
springing into action, he 
phones his wife.
Saturday 
4-8 pm
8-2 am
Sunday 
12:00 pm
4:00 pm
6:00 pm
8:00 pm 
12-2 am
Alex Lewis-music from the 
black musicians and vocalists 
who have yet to become 
“super -commercial.”
Alan Aranoff s Party Music.
The Classics Show with Steve 
Falatko
Busy Signal-Mitch Greenberg’s 
call in and talk show.
Norm Beck-WRCT nostalgia 
specialist does the oldies show.
Ron Smith-features Pitts­
burgh’s only Sunday Soul. 
Album Spotlight-a look at an 
artist and his latest album.
WRCT-FM/88.3 will go off the 
air each night at two a.m.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 12, 1974—Page 17
sports
Hamerly is Tartan MVP
photo by Stein
Franco Harris and Jeff Hollis go up for a rebound.
CMU-Two Thrillers
by Jim Litsas
The gym divided itself into two camps 
in preparation for the big game between 
ATO and the Wild Bunch. ATO, with four 
freshmen in its starting lineup, had been 
getting better with each game. The Wild 
Bunch, a tough, experienced team, hadn’t 
understood the word ‘defeat’ all season 
long. Hundreds of rooters came out to ex­
perience 1M night. And what a night it was.
Both teams looked very nervous as the 
game began, and understandably so. The 
game was evenly played in the first quarter, 
but ATO had earned a 16-11 lead. The teams 
picked up in the second quarter, with 
many long bombs sunk on both sides, but 
the Bunch, who had trailed all game long, 
finally took the lead, 30-28, as the first 
half ran out. The Bunch, as usual, had 
stayed cool, and had hit their typically 
high percentage from outside. ATO had 
played excellent ball at times, with Jay 
Duquette and Brad Punko leading the 
attack. The frat wasn’t getting nearly as 
many rebounds as the Bunch, and that had 
hurt. But ATO’s defense and quickness 
were formidable. The game was far from 
over.
Duquette, who was all over the court, 
tied the score with two foul shots as the 
second half began. Tom Trainor came on 
strong for ATO, and appeared to be having 
one of his better games of the season. 
These two paced their squad iO a 41-36 lead 
as the third quarter ended.
The Bunch, who hadn’t been able to 
stay in command, finally made use of their 
height to pull within a point of ATO. A 
couple of free throws gave them a lead 
with a minute left, but Duquette, once 
again, made it 50-50 with a foul shot of his
own. As the game went into overtime, the 
crowd realized that the right teams were 
indeed in the championship match. ATO 
had bested GSIA in overtime, and with 
1:30 left in the overtime now, held a five- 
point lead. Things looked rosy until Jay 
Duquette, who had played tremendous ball 
all game, fouled out. Brad Punko, the only 
ATO player chosen to the All-Star Team, 
followed suit shortly afterward. The team's 
big weakness, lack of an excellent bench, 
was finally revealed. The Bunch quickly 
tied the score to send the match into 
double overtime. But for all intents and 
purposes, it was all over. The Bunch took it 
easy and won, 65-60. It had been a great 
game, and no more need be said.
The Steelers managed to get Franco 
Harris, Sam Davis, Gordon Gravelle and 
Gerry Mullins, to name a few, to challenge 
the formidable Intramural All- Stars. It 
looked like the All-Stars might cop an easy 
win as they took an early 15-11 lead, but 
Franco came on strong for the pros, and 
they took a 30-24 lead at the half.
The 1M trophies were finally handed out 
more than an hour late during halftime by 
IM Commissioner Ed Schenk and IM 
Director Earl J. Birdy.
It was the Steelers throughout most of 
the second half as the All-Stars dropped to
13 points behind. The optimum IM team 
was eventually discovered, however, and 
with 1:50 left. C-MU finally broke ahead by 
a point. Jeff Hollis had two free throws 
which would have iced the victory, but the 
varsity coach, who had played so well in 
leading the Stars back, missed both 
attempts. The crowd was shocked as the 
Steelers sank the winning basket with time 
running out. to win 52-51.
by Mike Pochan
Three wins and eighteen losses is 
nothing to be happy about when you are a 
basketball player, but 6-foot 8-inch Tartan 
center Paul Hamerly has reason to smile, as 
he turned in a fine personal season along 
with receiving the basketball MVP award.
Hamerly. a freshman out of Penn Hills 
High School, was the only CMU player to 
be rated in the NCAA rankings. This 
occurred earlier in the season when Paul 
was holding a 66% shooting average from
the tield. a statistic that put him third in 
the nation for one w'eek. A decline in his 
scoring quickly dropped him from that 
position.
Hamerly finished the 73-74 season with 
a 13.9 pp-g- average. 45% shooting 
average, and 8.8 per game rebounding
average.
The basketball team elected Paul as 
Most Valuable Player for this season
because ot his outstanding performance.
“I’m looking forward to next season
being even better.”
Pro-Tennis Schedule 
Tri's Feature Stars
The Pittsburgh Triangles today an­
nounced their complete home schedule for 
the inaugural season of World Team Tennis 
play. All 22 home matches will be played 
at the Civic Arena with a starting time of 
7:30.
In making the announcement of the 
schedule. Chuck Reichblum, president of 
the Tri’s, pointed out that the majority of 
matches will be on weekends- with eight 
Sundays and four Saturdays on the card.
The Triangles’ home schedule features a 
bevy of visiting stars, including Billie Jean 
King of Philadelphia. John Newcombe of 
Houston, Rosie Casals of Detroit, Jimmy 
Connors of Baltimore, Tony Roche of Den­
ver. Kerry Melville and Nikki Pilic of Bos­
ton, Cliff Drysdale of F!orida, John Alex-
ander of Los Angeles, Roy Emerson of the 
Golden Gaters, Nancy Richey Gunter of 
Cleveland and many others.
The Tri’s are slated for six home mat­
ches in May, five in Jyne. four in July, and 
seven in August.
Each night’s match will consist of three 
events: mens singles, womens singles, and 
mixed doubles. A total night of play will 
last approximately 2lA hours, and the win­
ner of each night’s match will be the team 
that wins the most total games in the three 
events.
Ihe triangles open the season at Phila­
delphia on Monday night. May 6 for the 
WTT “Grand Opener.” The 14 other WTT 
franchises will open their respective seasons 
later that same week.
ATO man fires over Bob Atkinson of the Bunch.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
Orangatangs, Big Tight Ends 
Take Honors
by Jim Litsas
IM basketball wrapped up its ’73-’74 
season with some truly great games. The 
intermediate championship was determined 
on Wednesday, after some extremely close 
playoff competition. The Phi Kappa Ta- 
ters, defending intermediate champs, and 
the Purple Gnurples, represented the Suns 
division, the Orangatangs and PKA-B play­
ed for the Bucks division, and the Players 
and Madd came from the Bulls division 
(the Polish Patriots had the same win-loss 
record as Madd and the Players, but had 
missed two officiating assignments and 
therefore had to forfeit their playoff spot).
The Gnurples and the Orangatangs were 
both undefeated in regular season play, and 
received byes. Madd and PKA-B stayed 
close in their first-round game, but Madd 
came on strong in the second half to win 
by a 59-38 score. The Players, a team com­
posed of Drama students, eliminated the 
Phi Kappa Taters on Monday.
Tuesday’s intermediate games were de­
termined by a total of two points. The 
Players had a great many fans cheering for 
victory over the Orangatangs, but Ralph
Tartans 
Dukes on
by Dave Girdany
After defeating Duquesne 4-3 on Satur­
day, March 2 at the Civic Arena, the C-MU 
hockey team had but one game left on its 
regular season schedule. This game was 
played Sunday, March 10, against Penn 
State McKeesport, at the Civic Arena.
After beating Indiana easily in their pre­
vious game, the Tartans could not stand 
the prosperity and struggled through 
another close game. Tim Boylan beat Tar­
tan goalie Frank Sciulli on a breakaway 
early in the game to give Duquesne a 1-0 
lead. Exactly eight minutes later Pete Davis 
scored to tie the game while C-MU held a 
two-man advantage. Mike Kenworthy gave 
the Tartans a 2-1 lead twenty seconds after 
Pete’s goal and the score did not change 
through the rest of the first period.
The highlight of the game occurred in 
the middle of the second period; while 
everyone was watching Mike Kenworthy 
tie up C. H. Bender at center ice, Mike 
Gallaway scored to give C-MU a 3-1 lead. 
However, fifty seconds later, Duffy scored 
for Duquesne and the score was 3-2 at the 
end of two.
Four minutes into the third period, 
Mike Gallaway scored again to give the 
Tartans a two-goal lead once again and the 
score stayed at 4-2 until Duffy scored his 
second goal of the game with 47 seconds 
remaining. The 4-3 final gave C-MU a per­
fect 3-0-0 season against Duquesne.
Although the score was close, the Tar­
tans dominated play for much of the game, 
but then this is not unusual for the Tartan 
hockey team. There was little doubt that 
C-MU would win throughout the game. But 
the C-MU hockey team will have to play a
Domenick was impressive as the Oranga­
tangs won the serious and tense game by a 
single point. At the other end of the gym, 
the Purple Gnurples were missing their 
tallest player and struggling to maintain 
their meager yet consistent lead over Madd. 
Madd finally took the lead, however, by a 
point, and stalled away the final minute to 
end the Gnurples final season at C-MU on a 
sour note, 26-25. No one could argue that 
the two toughest teams hadn’t reached the 
semi-finals. Wednesday was the big day for 
the Orangatangs and Madd. The Oranga­
tangs, undefeated all season, starred former 
varsity player Ralph Domenick and a well- 
balanced team with height and speed. 
Madd had reached the championship level 
with height, speed and determination in 
only their first year as a team.
The Orangatangs pulled ahead slowly, 
and at halftime had a lead of six, 14-8. As 
the second half began, they scored eight 
straight points to practically put the game 
on ice. Ralph Domenick played his usual 
good game, but Steve Bilobran stole the 
show with his sure shooting and consistent 
defense, scoring 10 second half-points to 
back Oomenick and the "earr in their
Dump 
the Ice
better game than this in the league champ­
ionship final to win. The probability of this 
is high; in almost every game this year, 
independent of the opponent, the Tartans 
have managed to play at least well enough 
to win, even if only by a margin of one 
goal.
The WPIHA playoffs begin Tuesday 
night, March 19, at Sewickley. The first 
place team (probably Pitt) will play the 
third place team, and the secônd place 
team (probably C-MU) will play the fourth 
place team. The two losers will play in the 
consolation game at 7:00 Thursday night, 
March 21, at the Civic Arena. The two 
winners will play for the championjship of 
the WPIHA at 9:00. Tickets for thèse two 
doubleheaders are available at Skibo or 
from team members for $1.50 each. Tickets 
bought at the door will cost $2-50. For 
most of the Arena games this year, crowds 
have been small. It would be good to see a 
big crowd for the league playoffs.
Scoring Summary (C-MU vs. Duquesne) 
First Period
(1) Duq—Boylan 1:13; (2) C-MU-Davis 11 
(Grimm) 9:13. (3) C-MU-Kenworthy 7 
(unassisted) 9:33.
Second Period
(4) C-MU-Gallaway 6 (Kenworthy) 5:11;
(5) Duq—Duffy (Szczurko) 6:01.
Third Period %
(6) C-MU-Gallaway 7 (Kenworthy, 
Jacobs) 4:05; (7) Duq-Duffy (Davin) 
14:13.
35-25 rout.
The APO Lobsters defeated the PKT 
Rhinos on the first day of minor league 
playoff competition. McGilldoes managed 
to defeat the Mafia, the Big Tight Ends ran 
over the Guanas, and the PKT-Griffs de­
feated the EZB Phi Prime to claim their 
respective semifinal spots.
On Wednesday, the Big Tight Ends pre­
pared to play McGilldoes ‘A.’ They fell 
behind, 6-5, in the first half, but caught 
fire in the second half to win easily, 28-18. 
Shanahan and Sturzenbecker scored 10 
points apiece to lead the attack. The 
Griffs had some difficulty with the Lob­
sters, giving up 24 second half-points, but 
still won, 47-35. Thursday’s championship 
game featured the Big Tight Ends and the 
PKA Griffs. The lead swayed back and 
forth, as the teams were closely matched in 
terms of height and shooting ability, but at 
the final buzzer the Big Tight Ends had a 
two point victory after a very close game 
and the IM minor league basketball champ­
ionship.
The first day of major league playoffs 
was a bit dull. GSIA sparkled in the 
second half of play to defeat PKA-A by a
43-34 score. Salt & Pepper played without 
Jeff Hollis against Radio’s Raiders, but the 
Raiders, who had turned the trick against 
S&P in the regular season, had one of the 
poorest games of the year and lost, 63-44.
On the other hand, Wednesday’s major 
league semifinal games were close. The 
Wild Bunch and Salt & Pepper played an 
excellent game where neither team was 
able to keep a lead. At the start of the final 
period the score was tied. Tempers flared a 
bit, but the Bunch held on to a two-point 
lead to squeak out their 48-46 victory over 
the defending major league champions.
ATO had defeated GSIA during the reg­
ular season by two points, and their play­
off game was equally close as ATO kept a 
meager edge. The grads never dropped too 
far behind, and managed to tie the score as 
time ran out, causing the game to go into 
overtime. The entire game watched the 
only game in progress as ATO looked 
superb, and though Jay Duquette fouled 
out with 40 seconds to go, ATO earned a
44-38 victory. As it turned out, the two 
teams that had received byes, the Bunch 
and ATO, would face each other in the 
final IM basketball game of 1974.
NEARSIGHTED?
The ad reproduced below was run recently in several optometric journals to inform 
optometrists about a new development in the treatment and prevention of myopia. If you wish 
to do something about your myopia, show this ad to your optometrist who will order a Myopter 
for you and assist you in using it.
Some Candid Words About 
MYOPIA AND THE MYOPTER
Myopter. This moves the far point to 33 cm from the eyes. If the book is held slightly beyond this point so the words are a little blurred, the ciliary muscles are forced to relax 
as they attempt to see this blurred image clearly. This method has a much stronger beneficial effect on the 
spasm than using lenses which merely eliminate part of the accommodation. Recent clinical tests with the Myopter prove that myopia can be halted and improved with this 
technique. Improvements of up to ID. have been noted after only a few weeks’ use.
As the vision improves, the patient will find that the book must be held farther and farther away to get a blurred 
image. When this reading position becomes uncomfortable, the Myopter lenses are changed so that the book can be 
held closer. When normal vision is regained, a distance correction is no longer needed but the Myopter should still be used for all prolonged close work.
With age, the eyes become less responsive to the harmful 
effects of excessive accommodation, and the use of the Myopter can probably be discontinued. It is during the childhood years, when the eyes are so adaptable, that they 
must be protected from this accommodation.
The Myopter has other applications than the treatment of 
myopia. One use is by persons who have difficulty main­taining convergence when reading. The viewer can be used to eliminate the need to converge. The patient is supplied 
with Myopter lenses that permit reading without the need to accotnmodate, thus keeping the normal relationship 
between accommodation, convergence and stereopsis. An­other use is by presbyopes. The usual redding glasses enable these patients to read without the need to accom­
modate, but convergence is still required. The normal ac­commodation/convergence relationship is altered and prob- 
lems**re experienced.-Using the Myopter, the patient cat» read. tyjtMut accommoda tiorv'or convergence.
Attempts have been made ih .the past to slow the progress of myiipia by, .using,.riming glasses or bifocals to reduce 
the accommodation when reading This valuable technique-
The Cause of Myopia
The old “heredity" or “structural defect” theory of myopia 
can no longer be adequately defended. As reported in sev­eral journals, studies made in recent years have shown beyond any doubt that acquired myopia is caused by 
excessive close work.
The eye is adapted by nature primarily for distant use and 
is at rest when so used. It is not designed for a continuous accommodative effort. When abused in this way, a chronic 
ciliary spasm, or in other words a change in the level of accommodation, frequently results. This is often followed 
by a lengthening of the eyeball. The usual practice of 
putting concave glasses on a myopic patient, and then permitting those glasses to be used ft>r reading, increases 
the ciliary spasm, and causes the vision to deteriorate further. Each time the glasses are strengthened, every­thing the patient sees is in effect brought closer, and the 
eyes adapt to the new conditions, either by a further con­traction of the ciliary muscle, or by a further lengthening 
of the eye. The patient thus becomes more and more 
dependent on glasses.
It is now believed that thfa elongation results from a pres­sure rise in the vitreous caused by excessive accommoda­tion. If accommodation |s sustained for long periods^ this 
pressure can result in an enlargement of the vitreous chamber, with a resulting stretching of the coats of the 
eye. The lengthening is preceded by and is associated with the ciliary spasm. Some eyes continue this lengthening 
until detachment of the retina occurs.
The Myopter
The Myopter is a light-weight viewer worn instead of 
glasses for reading. It eliminates accommodation, con­vergence and stereopsis and thus completely transforms 
close work into distant work.
r.
BEAM-SPLITTER
t
¦V/
REPLACEABLE
LENSES
MIRROR ?
> ' 
tvii nnun ""NlU .Light from the viewed obect enters the front and if split into two identical parts which are reflected into the eyes 
parallel, eliminating convergence and stereopsn. The ac­commodation is eliminated by taking the housing apart and inserting lenses about 3D. less concave than the pa­
tient’s regular distance prescription. For example, a pa­tient with normal vision could use + 30. lenses in the
is preferable*to*thfc usual use of the full distance correc­tion far reading, Hewevvr, the métfiçd has .serious, li*iita- 
tions fhr the foi lowing reason. Whei\jTwmal eyes Mbk at a distant object, there rs no accommodation; no convergence and no stereopsis. As the object comes closer, thfSe three 
factors increase in proportion to each other. In fact, this relationship is so important to proper eye function that 
accommodation and convergence strongly stimulate each 
other. Now, it is obvious that if suitable lenses are used to eliminate accommodation for reading, the eyes still 
converge on the book. This convergence is attempting to increase the accommodation at the same time as the read­ing glasses are attempting to eliminate it. The ciliary 
muscle is being stimulated in two different and opposite directions at the same time—a completely unnatural con­dition. Naturally, it is not surprising if the resulting eye­
strain prevents improvement in the vision, even though the accommodation has apparently been eliminated Also, 
fusion problems can be created.
Attempts have been made to eliminate the convergence 
also, by combining base-in prisms with the spherical read­ing glasses, but this also is not entirely satisfactory. First 
of all, such prisms must be quite strong and they produce distortion; causing eyestrain. Secondly, the prisms do not 
eliminate stereopsis Each eye still sees a different pic­
ture and the brain associates this 3-dimensional effect with close vision, not distance vision. The resulting eye­
strain can prevent improvement in the vision, the Myopter 
overcomes all these limitations and allows the patient to read with the eyes in a completely natural and relaxed 
condition, as if looking at a far distant object.
Inform your patients of what is now known about myopia 
and of what treatment is available. Children, especially, should be put on a myopia prevention program as soon 
as myopic tendencies are observed.
Ordering Instructions
The price of the Myopter is $49.95 including elastic strap and detailed instruction manual. Section 1 of the manual 
discusses myopia and its cause in simple language that 
the patient can understand. Section 2 gives instructions to the practitioner on how to use the Myopter. The re­placeable 20 mm diameter lenses may be ordered in 13 
powers (including piano) from - 30. to + 3D. in Vt diopter 
steps at $7.00/pair.
Use the Myopter free for 60 days. If not satisfied that it can help your myoptic patients, return it without charge.
RIDGEVIEW ENTERPRISES, INC. 
RD 3, BOX 317 
LIGONIER, PA. 15658 
Tel: (412) 238-2101

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974-Page 19
Hamerly 
¦Voted 
All PAC
by Jeff Englund
Paul Hamerly, 6’8” freshman center of 
the Tartans basketball squad, has received 
^an honorable mention from the coaches of 
the Presidents Athletic Conference, in their 
voting for the All-Conference team.
The Penn Hills youth ranked fourth in 
the conference in rebounding at 9.6 rpg., 
and was the eighth leading scorer with 14.2 
PPg-
Van Glen Neal, the sophomore sensa­
tion from Hiram College, was chosen Cap­
tain of the 1973-74 squad. Neal broke 
^ three conference scoring marks while 
averaging 25.5 points a game. He hit 154 
field goals for an average of 11 per game, 
and eclipsed the record set just last season 
by John Carroll’s John Ambrosic for total 
points, scoring 356. Neal also finished third 
in field goal percentage, hitting 49.5% of 
his shots from the field.
Joining Neal on the first team are three
• repeaters from last season. Case’s Russ 
Drake (who also broke Ambrosic’s record 
of 328 points this season with 334), Kevin 
Derrick of Hiram (ranked third in scoring 
at 22.0), and Thiel’s Mark Fleischer (the 
leading rebounder in the PAC with 14.4 per 
game). A newcomer to the honor roll is 
freshman James Cannon of John Carroll, 
who ranked sixth in scoring, fourth in field 
^ goal percentage, and fifth in free throw 
shooting.
Composing the second All-APC team are 
Bethany’s J. B. Ali and Tag Wilson; Allegh­
eny’s Frank Barba; Dave Hosea of John 
Carroll; and Hiram’s Mark Thorpe.
Besides Hamerly, the honorable men­
tions are Bruce Gabriel of Hiram, Harvey 
Clough of Case, Lynn Jones of Thiel, Dave 
^ Malone and Marty Orzechowski of Allegh­
eny, and Jim Morrissey of John Carroll, 
and Bethany’s Ron Sackett.
Taj Mahal Restaurant
5151 Clairton Blvd., Route 51, South
• NOW OPEN •
Distinctive Indian Cuisine 
Buffet Fri.: $4.75 per Person
FOR RESERVATIONS: CALL 881-9500
& P fine ^¿Recorderv
* XPi-ER AMR. A 
and. J\uiPSfr PÄbns
part of -theco-op 
122 Meyron Ave. 62J-5555
Geneva's top scorer guarded by senior Pat Berry.Mean Jean Hundley.goes high above everyone.Photos by Stein.
Season’s Biggest Outburst Smothers 6annon
by Mary Kay Burak
On November 17, the Tartan skaters 
outscored Gannon College (Erie), 4-1, in 
their third game of the season. At seasons 
end, the Tartans travelled to Erie on March 
8th for a rematch and came away with a 
9-3 win, their highest scoring game this 
season.
Frank Sciulli tended the goal for his 
second full game this season; he had also 
played the third period of the first Gannon 
game. Sciulli played a good game; he was 
badly screened on two of Gannon’s goals.
The Peterson-Goldsmith combination 
scored the first two Tartan goals: Peterson, 
assisted by Goldsmith and Grimm at 
11:20; then Goldsmith, assisted by Peter­
son and Kenworthy, on a power play at 
16:33. Gannon’s Buono had been put in 
the penalty box at 13:53. The first and 
third periods were played 20 minute “run­
ning time” with penalties set at three min­
utes to compensate.
The second period, however, lasted for
20 minutes of actual playing time, which 
partially explains why nine goals were 
scored and six penalties were called in this 
period. Two penalties were on C-MU; 
Johnny Hauser got two minutes for carry­
ing a broken stick and Rick Farman was 
called for roughing along with a Gannon 
player after a mix-up in front of the Tar­
tan goal.
Early in the period, Tom Grimm scgred, 
followed by Mike Gallaway nine seconds 
later, bringing the score to 4-0. The two 
quick goals seemed to spark Gannon and 
they came back a minute later for their 
first goal of the game. For the rest of the 
period, the action see-sawed back and forth 
across the center zone. Matt Goldsmith 
scored again on the power play—an unusual 
occurrence for the Tartan club. Tim Grimm 
shot in his second goal, followed by a Gan­
non goal; Rick Farman scored, followed by
another Gannon goal. Mike Kenworthy 
rounded out the second period goals with a 
slap shot which deflected off a Gannon 
defenseman’s stick into the upper right- 
hand corner of the net at 18:52.
Play calmed down considerably in the 
third period. Rick Farman shot in his 
second goal and the Tartans ninth, for the 
final score of 9-3. Coach Larry Jacobs used 
the remaining eleven minutes to give the
less experienced skaters some game time.
There’s just one C-MU exhibition game 
left, against Penn State (Main Campus) on 
Saturday, March 16, at 4:00 p.m. When the 
two clubs met in November, C-MU pulled 
off a 3-2 victory in their first game of the 
season. But Penn State has a rink right on 
campus and lots of practice time. The Tar­
tans will have to get out and hustle to 
overcome this advantage.
we cape aboutGERED WILDLIFE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 12, 1974
SUMMER SESSIONS CMU1974
During the summer, 1974 there will be two 
six-week sessions, as follows:
1st Six-Week Session 
May 14—June 21
Regular Undergraduate Courses
THE TUITION WILL BE 
$20 PER UNIT
2nd Six-Week Session 
June 24—August 2
Pre-College Program, CFA 
Advanced Placement/Early 
Admission Program 
Upward Bound 
Graduate Courses (English 
and History)
The regular eight-week summer session has 
been discontinued. The dates for that ses­
sion should be deleted from your university 
calendar. The date for the registration of 
graduate students who continue on thesis 
research during the summer will be an­
nounced.
The 1st Six-Week summer session will start 
on May 14 and end on June 21. A selection 
of regular undergraduate courses will be 
offered.
The following is the tentative list of courses 
to be offered. The actual courses to be 
offered will depend on the student re­
sponse.
Please give your tentative reply by 
MARCH 17.
Tentative Undergraduate 
Courses for 
Summer ProgramsCarnegie-Mel Ion University
Name.
Local Address.
am interested in the following courses
1.
2.
Please return this coupon to:
Director of Summer Programs 
Room 216 Warner Hall 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
» Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Class schedules will be announced after it is 
determined which courses will be offered.
Statistics:36-211 Probability and Applied Statistics I9 units(1)
36-219 Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
MIS
Chemistry:09-105 Elem. Physical Chemical Principles9 units(1)
09-106 Bonding and Structural Principles9 units(2)
09-117 Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-218 Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
09-243 Physical Chemistry II9 units(1)
Math:21-121 Calculus I9 units(1)
21-122 Calculus II9 units(1)
21-141 Linear Algebra9 units(1)
21-142 Foundations of Analysis9 units(1)
21-259 Higher Math of Engin. and Science I9 units(1)
21-260 Higher Math of Engin. and Science II9 units(1)
21-440 Number Theory9 units(1)
21-485 Mathematical Models9 units(1)
21-251 Ordinary Differential Equations9 units(1)
Physics:33-122 Physics II: Elec. and Mag. (Prob. Self-Paced)9 units(1)
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics (Prob. Self-Paced)9 units(1)
AMS:70-363 Law in Modern American Society9 units(1)
H&SS
Economics:73-100 Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I12 units(1)
73-200 Econ. Growth and Fluctuations12 units(1)
73-250 Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.12 units(1)
English:76-321 Shakespeare12 units(1)
76-406 Modern Novel12 units(1)
76-411 Intro, to the Reading of Poetry & Short Fiction12 units(1)
76-580 Composition: Expository Writing12 units(1)
History:79-291 Twentieth Century America12 units(1)
79-----The American Ethnic Experience12 units(1)
79-500 Power And Values in the Modern World12 units(1)
79-505 The Development of the Modern Mind12 units(1)
79-506 Revolutionary Change in the Modern World12 units(1)
79-----Culture and the Arts in Modern Europe12 units(1)
79-515 Science in Our Culture9 units(2)
79-662 Freedom and Authority: Intro, to Pol. Phil.12 units(1)
79-102 The Shaping of Western Civilization II12 units(2)
79-103 American Civilization12 units(2)
Modern Languages and Literature:
Tutorial Translation Workshops:
82-620 Translation Workshop: French6-1 2 units(1)
82-630 Translation Workshop: German6-1 2 units(1)
82-650 Translation Workshop: Russian6-12 units(1)
Programmed basic language skills courses:
82-107 Programmed French Up to 18 units(1)
82-123 Programmed German Up to 18 units(1)
82-143 Programmed Spanish Up to 18 units(1)
MUSIC
57-----Individual Lessons: Piano, Organ, Vocal, Instrumental(2)*
57-181 Ear Training and Sight Singing3 units(2)*
57-209, 809 Seminar on Stravinsky6 units(2)*
57-210, 810 Seminar on Schoenberg, Berg and Webern6 units(2)*
57-223, 823 Piano Ensemble (Duo Piano Teams)3,6 units(2)*
57-223, 823 Piano Ensemble3,6 units(2)*
57-267, 799 Composition6,9 units(2)*
57-275, 826 Piano Pedagogy6 units(2)*
57-335, 835 Choral Techniques6 units(2)*
57-405, 805 Keyboard Literature6 units(2)*
57-407, 865 Form and Analysis6 units(2)*
57-447 Score Reading3 units(2)*
57-449, 761 Advanced Keyboard Musicianship3 units(2)*
57-471,733 Band Scoring6 units(2)*
57-475 Vocal Pedagogy3 units(2)*
57-477, 893 Song Literature3 units(2)*
57-478, 894 Song Literature3 units(2P
57 499 Vocal Coaching6 units(2)*
PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
51-179 Calligraphy9 units(2)*
60-250 & 60-750 Ceramics9 units(2)*
60 229 Color9 units(2)*
60-380 & 60-780 Contemporary Art9 units(2) *
60-335 & 60-735 Lithography9 units(2)*
60-256 & 60-756 Metalcrafts9 units(2)*
60 240 & 60 740 Photography9 units(2)*
60-151 Drawing9 units(2)*
60 250 & 60 750 Ceramics9 units(2) *
60-228 & 60 728 Painting9 units(2)*
60 346 & 60-746 Glassblowing9 units(2)*
60 331 & 60 731 Serigraphy9 units(2)*
60 262 & 60 762 Sculpture9 units(2) *
60 268 & 60 768 Weaving9 units(2)*
(1) = First Session: May 14-June 21; (2) = Second Session: June 24-Aug. 2; * Tuition $26 per unit
