3Ttvc (Tar ne gic (Tartan
Vol. 34 No. 27B
Vol. 34N2.7B4 S7Blotud 
ensoB Wu iHdnl chkk
Students Will Be Hotchkiss Named
Under Direction .Of J. V. O’Brien As t irst Director
The Carnegie Tech student sym- Of ]N"CW OlVlSlOll
phony orchestra of eight-five Dr. Willard E. Hotchkiss, Maur-
pieces has scheduled two concerts ice Falk Professor of Social Re­
in Carnegie Music Hall, one for .
this Sunday evening and the sec- latlons> has been appointed direc-
ond for next Sunday evening. Dr. tor of a newly-organized Divi-
J. Vick O’Brien, head of the De- sion of Humanistic and Social
partment of Music, will conduct Studies.
both programs. Chiefly administrative, the or-
This Sunday’s program will ganization of the new division
feature three concertos and the merges the Social Relations Pro-
Symphony No. 1 by Shostako- gram, which Dr. Hotchkiss has
vitch. The soloists, all members headed with the Division of Gen-
of the June graduating class of eral Studies. The directorship of
the Department of Music, will be the Division of General Studies,
Dorothy Hutchings, ’cellist; Sara previously held by the late Dr.
Jane Lewis, pianist; and Milton A. Roscoe M. Ihrig, has been vacantShapiro, clarinetist. Carl Hunts- since his death last fall
berger, organist, and Dorothy _ • • • <• VV o l.o•n/r_1 The new Division of HumanisticMorgan, pianist, will be the solo- . , ...ists on the second program. Both and Socia Studies centralizes the
concerts will be open to the pub- responsibility for the related types
lie after 8:15 p. m. Tickets may stud«s’ "rl“ch have been offer­
ee secured in advance by applying “ the College of Engineering
to the Music Department Office, chiefly under the Social Bela-
Hoom 153, Arts. tlons Program, and in Margaret, , .. , , „ , Morrison Carnegie College andShostakovitch s First Symphony o£ Fine V under
was published m 1927 when the Division of General Studies,composer was but twenty-two tiiCular aim of the reorgani_
The score, entitled Symphony for ,. . , j-i.it.x i./-» u * m J -F«,. zation is to coordinate the teach-Orchestra, opus 10, is written for . , ,, ... ,
a large modern orchestra and in- ol thesef cofurse/ fdf
cludes a part for the piano. The .34N2 oPP^umty for scholarly
work is not a political doctrine research on the part of the in-
revealed as is his Third Sym- structors-
phony, “The May Day,” but has Dr. Hotchkiss, former president 
brisk direct themes signifying a of Armour Institute of Technol-
youthful vigor . This is Shosta- ogy has had a distinguished career
kovitch’s music of originality that as an educator and labor arbi-
constantly presents new ideas in- trator. The organizer of schools of
stead of lengthy developments. business at Northwestern, Min-
His compositions dp, however, nesota, and Stanford Universities,
bear traces of Strauss, Tschaikow- he came to Carnegie Tech in 1938
sky, and even Wagner. to accept the chair endowed by
Following is the program: the Maurice and Laura Falk
Program Foundation for development of a
..... 1 __ . Social Relatidns'in the College ofSymphonic Variations for Piano and °Orchestra ............................. Franck Engineering.Sara Jane Lewis 
IITantasia and Rondo from Opus 34 for X?______1 Til______„Clarinet and Orchestra ...........Wetter .£ aCilllY LPi ailiatSMilton Shapiro 7
¦Concerto in B flat major for 'Cello and Stage ProductionOrchestra .......................... Boccherini ~Allegro moderato This Friday and Saturday, at
A.VErroPPO 8:15 in the Little Theatre, Car-
Dorothy Hutchings negie students, faculty, and
intermission friends will have an opportunity
¦Symphony No. l, Opus io. .Shostakovitch to see Tech’s faculty in action.
Aiiegrott0 “Close Harmony,” written by
Lento Dorothy Parker and Elmer Rice
Gertrude0 wrowikTat the piano and under the direction ot Sam-uel “Biff” Lift, senior in the 
Drama dept., will be staged after 
C_^clI31Iiet J[ Q XI.old weeks of rehearsing. Members of
the cast which is entirely made upAnnual Retreat 0f faculty members and their
_ , , _ , wives are: Mr. Leo Carroll, Mr.Cook’s Forest wiU be the scene and Mrs stuart ch Ml,
of the annual retreat of the Car- and Mrs Norman Da Mr
negie Men’s Christian Association Max Han Mrs D las Mc.
this week-end, Friday through clean_ Mjss clam Mmerj and
Sunday. Mrs E G olds. This presentation
This popular event, which is js definitely a faculty production
open to all Carnegie men, win in- _even down to the construction
elude the usual mushball game, and painting of scenery,
steak fry, and the customary Admission will be 50c £or fac_
roundtable discussions. Among mMnbers and other adults,the guest speakers at these discus- but a ¡al rate Qf 35c ig ar„
Sr°nV?, ™ B Si ranged for students. Tickets canMarshall Muir of the Bellefield be obtained from an of the cast
Presbyterian Church or at any of the foUowing offices:
The installation of the Y Cab- Athleti chemistry, Coal Re­
met officers for next year will search Electrical Engineering,
be held during the retreat. Alvin p]ne Management Engineer- 
R Burton 42, will take the office j Margaret Morrison, Publica-
of president and John C. Van Ars- „ Science Jg Library
dell, ’43 will be instated as vice- SchooI McKelvey’s Night-Schoolpresident. Members of the fresh- Qffice
man cabinet will elect the new 
secretary. The men who have
qualified for membership in the Sltt2u d oe dNns2senior Y-Cabinet will be select- 7
ed from the freshman cabinet. dssWsi HtlsWchsk2a
All men who are interested in m ,
attending this event should sign In Tech s recent style show<
up in the office of Mr. Rollin V. Kaufmann’s awarded merchan-
Davis on the second floor of the e certificates of five dollars
Carnegie Union immediately, each to the girls whose dresses
since there are only a limited were voted the best in their re­
number of vacancies. There is a spective groups by the audiences
charge of a dollar-and-a-half per of three days,
person, and each person should The winners were: Helen
bring the money when he signs Crumpton, ’41, who modeled a
up. The cars will leave the Car- plaid wool ensemble; Peggy Stu-
negie Union Friday afternoon. chell, ’42, who wore a green silk
crepe trimmed in brown velvet; 
T A C !>• * Evelyn Thomas, ’43, who wore a1. A. o. JriClUC blue and white stripe dress made
Carnegie Tech’s chapter of the in the new “Venetian blind style;”
the Institute of Aeronautical Jeanne Howard, ’42, dressed for
Sciences will hold its annual pic- action in slacks and a boelro of
nic at the Rose Barn, North Park, green and brilliant hydrangia;
next Sunday. All members who and Frances Taylor, ’41, who was
desire to attend should contact clad for evening in a white clas-
one of the officers of the chapter sic dress under a long red, white
immediately. and blue cape.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 6, 1941
Wa3aiama c7kUd 
ioounBrd coto
This Thursday and Friday the 
Allegheny Section of Student 
branches of the American Soci­
ety of Mechanical Engineers will 
hold its eighth annual convention 
in Pittsburgh.
The Mechanical Engineering 
departments of Carnegie Tech 
and the University of Pittsburgh 
will act as joint hosts to more 
than three hundred student A. S. 
M. E. delegates from fourteen 
colleges and universities in neigh­
boring districts.
Starting with registration on 
Wednesday, the convention will 
continue through Friday night, 
ending with a dance that evening. 
Technical sessions, inspection 
trips and a banquet are among 
the outstanding events planned 
for the program.
Associate Professor" David C. 
Saylor is honorary chairman of 
the convention. A breakfast in his 
honor will be held Friday morn­
ing from 8 to 9.
The program has been arrang­
ed so that the events of the two 
days will be equally divided be­
tween Carnegie and Pitt. Thurs­
day night the delegates will take 
part in the Campus week festiv­
ities at Pitt, and Friday night a 
dance will be held in Thistle 
Hall. Technical sessions will be 
held at the Cathedral of Learning 
on Thursday, and at the Little 
Theater on Friday.
kotNlt32a ot m4U2 r
Members Elected 
Into Sigma Xi
The Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology Chapter of Sigma Xi, hon­
orary scientific society, has an­
nounced its elections to member­
ship for 1940-41. Members elect­
ed from the faculty and staff are 
Richard F. Clippinger, Arnold D. 
Hestenes, Milton M. Leven, John 
A. Sauer, and Frederick A. 
Schwertz. Taken from the alum­
ni are Tom C. Lloyd and Walter 
J. Lyman. Elected from the grad­
uate students are Richard W. 
Dennison, Alfred H. Geisler, Ken­
neth E. Keyes, John R. Low, Jr., 
John A. Radspinner, George V. 
Smith, and James J. Ward.
Associates elected from the grad­
uate students are Jack A. Borch- 
ardt, Albert A. Clark, George J. 
Dienes, Arthur H. Grobe, George
E. Schulz, Paul E. Snyder, An­
thony P. Wagener, Jr., and Arba 
G. Williamson, Jr. Those elected 
from, the undergraduate students 
are Irwin Broverman, Richard T. 
Clement, Lawrence R. Greenhaus, 
Edward L. Kaplan, Millard L. 
Levy, Walter Polovina, and H. 
William Prengle, Jr.
My Daze at Tech
Students desiring -consideration 
for financial aid for next year in 
the form of loans and scholar­
ships should apply at the office 
of the Counselor on Financial Aid 
to Students, Room 152 Industries 
Hall, before July 15.
Before May 15 application 
blanks may be secured at the of­
fice of the Dean of Students. Af­
ter May 15, they may be secured 
at Room 152 Industries Hall.
WNotnlh Dntdu S7NNnuuoo 
327Bd7td OhD7kkouuo Vhkf
D2Ul
dN3a2tN ko3tOls 
.ltf HONlJlNl2f 
HN 7oltN ’22NltU
Outgoing Student Council held 
its last meeting, and the new 
Council its first, at a joint ses­
sion last Tuesday.
The most prolonged. discussion 
of the evening centered on the 
eligibility of Jack Satterfield, 
President of the Senior Class in 
Arts, becoming a member of the 
new Council. Mr. Durbin claimed 
that Satterfield is registered as a 
Sophomore, and as such, is not 
eligible to hold a Senior position 
next year. He further stated that 
George Van Nort, vice-president 
of the Senior class, should hold 
the office. Mr. Satterfield present­
ed a letter from the Registrar’s 
office stating that if he passes all 
his courses he will be a Senior 
next year.
Finally, it was decided that the 
Executive Committee of Council 
should meet with Dr. Warden and 
Mr. Collins to determine Mr. Sat­
terfield’s status. At this meeting, 
which took place Wednesday 
morning, Mr. Satterfield was de­
clared a Junior, and is thus per­
mitted to take his seat on Coun­
cil.
The question of scholarship 
versus monthly salaries for stu­
dents who hold remunerative po­
sitions in activities was brought 
up, and a compromise plan was 
passed. In the future, any such 
payments shall be known as 
scholarships, but the money will 
still be paid monthly to be used 
by the student as he pleases.
Results of the run-off elections 
in Margaret Morrison were an­
nounced and are: President of the 
Sophomore Class, Elizabeth Beall; 
Sophomore Senate Representative, 
Sally Moir; Treasurer of the Sen­
ior Class, Norma Squitieri.
3uHUoBu WuuoN2ud V7 3uHU4 
WJuot ShtBnshk m’2otnoBlod
By Wallace Sadauskas
It’s all over now—Spring Car­
nival I mean—even the shouting. 
Just how the aftermath of the 
Carnival affects the student’s 
power of concentration can be 
seen in a play-by-play account of 
a student whipping himself into 
a productive mood for study the 
day after.
We bring you now to the study 
of a Tech student where we will 
present a line-by-line description 
of a student trying to study after 
three days of Carnival.
He’s seated at his desk, and now 
he is looking at his typewriter. 
He looks at it very seriously. Oh, 
now he’s smiling. I think he has 
an idea for an English theme or 
something—No, I guess not— 
probably just remembered an 
amusing sketch from “Here’s To 
You.”
Now he’s smiling again. It’s a 
pretty feeble smile, and now it’s 
gone. Oh, what now! He must 
have an idea. He opens one of his 
desk drawers and pulls out some 
paper. He’s got a sheet and he 
wants to insert it between—no. 
Now he’s looking at the carbon 
paper. Evidently he decides it is 
worn out because he throws it in­
to the waste basket and gets a 
fresh piece. He’s about to write 
—Oh, I guess I was wrong. He 
goes across the room, lies down 
on his cot and starts humming
ATlsslm C4 goss2NN2
“Marie.” Apparently he can’t get 
Tommy Dorsey’s music out of his 
mind.
He lights up a cigarette and 
starts smoking. In a little while 
he gets up and starts towards the 
typewriter, picks up a pin and 
starts picking little bits of type­
writer ribbon out of the metal 
type in his machine. It seems to 
take an awfully long time.
Well I guess he considers that 
he’s got it satisfactorily cleaned. 
He puts the pin away now. I guess 
he intends to get started—no, I’m 
sorry I was wrong again. Now he 
gets up from behind his desk and 
goes over to the window. He looks 
out and starts whistling “Between 
18th and 19th on Chestnut Street.” 
Suddenly he hurries back to the 
typewriter and sets himself in 
front of it. No, I guess not—I 
thought he was going to start 
writing.
He is now reading the news­
paper. Suddenly he throws the 
paper on the floor and looks at his 
typewriter—he looks very de­
termined. I’m sure he’s going to 
—no, he fooled me again. Once 
more he gets up, and this time 
goes to the closet . . . say, here is 
a surprise for you—he comes out 
carrying a tennis racquet. Yes, he 
heads for the door and now he is 
outside headed towards the ten­
nis courts.
mBrnBootd ih4 
eou AoJotNoBu
At a meeting of representatives 
of the publications of Pitt, Tech, 
and Duquesne, Mr. L. R. Lind- 
gren of the Selective Service Sys­
tem from Harrisburg, explained 
the desire of the National Head­
quarters to keep the trained man­
power in the Engineering Field 
from becoming depreciated be­
cause of the Selective Service. 
After studying the occupations, 
the Bureau of Labor Research han 
reported that the immediate at­
tention of Selective Service be 
devoted to preventing any un­
necessary increuse of the short­
ages so that the national defense 
program will not be impeded un­
necessarily.
College students, according to 
the Selective Service Act, cannot 
be given a group deferment, but 
the local boards have been rec­
ommended to give individual oc­
cupational deferment of students 
in Engineering courses, so long 
as they continue to be in prepara­
tion or training as necessary men 
in activities essential to the na­
tional defense.
In the process of reclassifying 
those students who are deferred 
until the school-year ended, the 
student Should return the ques­
tionnaire concerning his status 
and his plans, and affidavit from 
the college officials testifying as 
to the student’s standing, courses, 
and occupational objectives to­
gether with a general evaluation 
of the student as a “necessary 
Man” immediately. The local 
board will consider this informa­
tion in regard to placing the ap­
plicant in an occupational defer­
ment class. More complete in­
formation will appear in the next 
issue of the TARTAN.
Dr. Lawrence Guild 
Will Give Lectures
Dr. Lawrence R. Guild, Head 
of the Management Engineering 
Department and National Secre­
tary of Phi Kappa Phi, the scho­
lastic honorary,. is scheduled to 
give several out-of-town talks 
this month.
On Tuesday, May 20, Dr. Guild 
will speak at the Phi Kappa Phi 
initiation ceremonies at Virginia 
Polytechnic Institute on the sub­
ject “Educated Man in the Mod­
ern World.” This will be the 
third talk of the month.
Yesterday, Dr. Guild delivered 
two addresses at Illinois Wesleyan 
University. The first of these en­
titled "The Value of Individu­
ality” will be given at a morning 
assembly this month. Dr. Guild 
also spoke in the evening at the 
initiation banquet of Phi Kappa 
Phi. He discussed the motto of 
that organization in the light of 
present v/orld conditions with a 
speech entitled “Can the Love of 
Learning Rule the World.”
Isolationist’s Son 
To Speak Here 
Monday Afternoon
Phillip La Follette, former gov­
ernor of Wisconsin, will speak at 
the Carnegie Tech Campus this 
Monday. He will address the stu­
dents at 4:30 in the Little Theater, 
Fine Arts.
Mr. La Follette, a member of 
the Progressive Party, was gov­
ernor of Wisconsin for two terms 
and is the brother of Senator 
Robert La Follette. He is the 
son of the famous Robert La Fol­
lette of Wisconsin. At present Mr. 
La Follette is on a speaking tour 
of the country under the auspices 
of the America First Committee. 
Donald Feder, a graduate of Tech 
and a member of the Pittsburgh 
chapter of the America First 
Committee, secured Mr. La Fol­
lette for Tech.
The subject of the address 
which he will deliver here is 
“Why America Should Stay Out 
of the War.’’ Although he is not 
anti-British, Mr. La Follette be­
lieves that American self-interest 
indicates that we should stay out 
of the war. In his opinion the de­
feat of Hitler isn’t important 
enough to warrant our going to 
war.
Mr. La Follctto Is following In 
his father’s footsteps. Tho older 
La Follette was an ardent isola­
tionist during the last war. Tho 
America First Committee is the 
organization which sponsored tho 
speech of Colonel Charles A. 
Lindbergh a short time ago. This 
speech preceded Colonel Lind­
bergh’s resignation from the Air 
Corps Reserve.
Mr. La Follette will address tho 
Hungry Club on Monday at noon 
before coming to Tech. That 
evening he will deliver tho prin­
cipal address of the day at tho 
North Side Carnegie Music Hall 
at 8:15. Senutor David A. Reid 
will preside at this meeting.
After appearing in Pittsburgh, 
Mr. La Follette will leave for 
North Carolina to begin an ex­
tensive tour of the south.
d4Jon4ua huo3m2 
Au2f2tNf yls4tNT2
The Pittsburgh Savoyards, pop­
ular players of Gilbert and Sul­
livan operettas, have announced 
that “Iolanthc,” their last produc­
tion for the 1940-41 season, will 
be presented tonight, tomorrow 
night and Thursday night at the 
Twentieth Century Club.
Several former Tech students 
will take part in the production. 
They are Emerick Simboli, acting 
in a principal role, Betty O’Toole, 
who is accompanist for the group 
and who will be remembered as 
accompanist for the “Beggars’ 
Opera,” and Martha Eggers, bi­
ology instructor.
On campus tickets for the pro­
duction may be purchased from 
the following: Martha Eggers, 
Margaret Morrison, Room 121, 
John Radspinner, Coal Research 
Laboratory, Andrew Potter and 
Constance Lewis. Tickets may al­
so be obtained at Mellor’s, Vollc- 
wein’s and Wagner-Bund. The 
price for adults is $1.00 and for 
students, $.50.
Notice
There will be an important 
meeting of all members of the 
TARTAN staff this morning at 
11:30, in the TARTAN offices.
On The Record |
Today—Tuesday, May 6, 12:30, 
Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles A.
II. Pearson will supervise this 
phonograph recital.
Sixth Brandenburg Concerta ......
.............................................. Bach
Fifth Symphony........ Beethoven
Thursday—May 8, 12:30, Room 
157, Arts, Dr. Frederick Dorian 
will be in charge of this recital. 
String Quartette ... Schoenberg

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAENEGXE T AUTANTUESDAY, MAY 6, 1941
Tartan Asks Council To 
Doterniine Status of Cut
Two weeks ago, the TARTAN editorial asked the following 
questions:
1. Exactly what is the status of the Cut and what is its rela­
tionship to the other campus publications?
2. Why 'couldn’t the president of Student Council answer the 
above question?
3. Did Council approve the Cut and what would hucIi ap- 
approval imply?
To date none of these questions have been answered.
Yesterday at noon, members of the Cut staff began circulat­
ing petitions which read: “We, the undersigned students of Car­
negie Institute of Technology petition Student Council to appro­
priate funds in the 1940-1941 budget to make the Carnegie Cut a 
weekly campus newspaper distributed free to all students.” At 
the time of its inception the Cut was publicized as a campus pic­
torial. Starting with its first íksuc and continuing up until the 
Carnival issues, the Cut inserted more and more written material 
and fewer pictures. This fact together with the above petition in­
dicates that the Cut wants to be a newspaper and not a pictorial.
The establishment of the Cut as a newspaper would mean a 
needless repetition of news which has already been covered most 
adequately by other campus publications. Since the existing pub­
lications have in the past, and will in the future, insure completé 
coverage of news, the only basis on which the Cut can hope to 
gain the approval of Council is that of a campus pictorial. The 
makeup and design of the Cut is decidedly below the standards of 
a college paper. Pictures have not measured up to the caliber 
of newspaper work. We feel that the Carnegie Cut has not shown 
any conclusive merit to warrant its approval as a campus news­
paper.
The TARTAN has recently signed a contract with the Col­
legiate Digest, a national pictorial of which one trial issue has 
already been distributed. Pictures of Carnegie students and cam­
pus life will appear at frequent intervals in this rotogravure, and 
by this means the desire for pictorial news can be adequately sat­
isfied. The pictures, themselves, will be of higher caliber than 
the offset method of printing used by the Cut can obtain, since 
two or three well-known photographers will be obtained on the 
Digest rotogravure.
The circulation of the Cut is very limited, since only a mi­
nority has thought the paper worthy of its purchase price. If this 
is the case, is it fair for Student Council to appropriate money 
taken from the activities fee of each student to support a paper 
which the student himself would not support?
Among certain faculty members there is the prevalent 
thought that the Cut appeals to “those students who can’t'read.” 
This is a tragic thought indeed. We suggest that the students ask 
themselves, and above all, Student Council members, just what 
advantages the Cut can offer which the other campus publications 
do hot already have.
I . . Oil the l ii if . .
Well ,the big spree is over and 
we’re going bnclc to our book 
with new (?) vigor. Meanwhile, 
why not learn about some com­
binations that have been seen dur­
ing the past week.
Einar Jacobson, chairman of the 
Carnival committee, chose Jane 
Fitzpatrick to accompany him.
Dottio Cole and Tony Schlepper 
were definitely happy over Carni­
val. Maybe lemon blends had 
something to do with that. Jeanne 
Anne Williams and Pat Maloney 
were hitting it oil well together! 
Incidentally Jeanne tells us they’re 
going steady. .
Jimmy Stauffer is one of the 
many believing in imports: Name­
ly Hetty Wick from Seton Ilill.
Orchids to the chaperones in­
cluding Mr. and Mrs. Davis, Mr. 
and Mr». Risedorf, Mrs. Yon, Dr. 
and Mrs. Gregg, and Mr. and Mrs. 
Patton.
Speaking of imports again: 
There's Hollo Block’s Betty from 
Cornell.
We thought Pudge Helfrick 
looked awfully nice dancing with
I
Bob Linder.
Jitterbugs are still jittin’. At 
least Peggy Nellis and Bob Cowie 
and Pee Wee and Red Burch are 
doing their best to keep up the 
tradition.
Most unusual conbination of 
the week: Dotty Lunlc and George 
Andraso, Virginia Bennett and 
John Beattie.
Flnsli
Betty Denne is going steady, 
and with none other than Ed Mc­
Call.
Pitt still rates on the Tech-cam­
pus, with Gertrude Zweig at any 
rate. Joe Stein is the lucky per­
son.
Among the married set seen at­
tending the dance: Lenic and 
Eleanor Shatzkin, Charlie Fortier 
and Marty, Jack Culver and 
Ruthy.
Don French seems very much 
interested in a P. & D. student 
by the name of Aleta Cornelius.
One of our alumna that we al­
ways like to see around is Aida 
Squitierl, who has just -announced 
her engagement to Frank Jordano.
nnpnnonNTCD rI NATIONAL ADVERTISING t
National Advertising Service, Inc.College Publishers Reprcsenta/ife 
-r]" Madison ave. New York. n. Y. 
CHICAGO • Boston • Los Ahocles • San Francisco
7Bo 7J u.o rntkd
. ps24tou WfTun
Her friends . . . call her "Elky”
. . . her husband . . . calls her 
“Junior” . . . those people . . . 
like instructors . . . who. have to 
be more formal . . . never know 
whether to say . . . “Miss Oshry” 
... or “Mrs. Shatzkin” . . . since 
she is finishing school . . . under 
her maiden name . . . but her 
marriage ... to Leonard Shatzkin 
. . . last September ... is not se­
cret ... to anyone . . . When 
Eleanor Oshry Shatzkin . . . does 
graduate . . . this June . . . she 
will be the first woman ... to 
complete a course ... at Tech . . . 
in the Engineering School . . . she 
is a Physic’s major . . . and can 
prove it ... in thirty seconds . . . 
with a slide rule . . . She has been 
... in the Physics Department 
. . . for five years . . . because 
although she can get the best of 
. . . the boys ... in her math class 
. . . she couldn’t get the best of
. . a strep throat ... a few 
springs ago . . . and had to drop 
. . . out of school . . . for a while 
. . . Upsetting precedents ... is 
her strong point . . . She is one of 
the . . . very few women ... to 
have been . . . editor of the TAR­
TAN . . . Though that was . . . 
just for a few weeks . . . she has 
been ... a TARTAN staff main­
stay . . . all through her school 
years . . . and that, in turn, earn­
ed her . . . the vice-presidency of 
. . . Alpha Chi Alpha . . . She is 
one of . . . the guiding stars . . . 
of the BARD . . . She shares with
Veterans Honor 
R. O. T. C. Unit
in the competitive R. O. T. C. 
drills which took place last Thurs­
day Company B won top honors. 
As a result, the Allegheny Council 
of Veterans of Foreign Wars will 
present Cadet Captain Robert 
Deans, ’41, with an engraved 
saber. The saber is awarded next 
Thursday at the President’s Re­
view, the last drill of the year. 
The company guidon is to receive 
streamers to be attached thereto.
Regimental Commander Ralph 
Martin, ’41, will receive m] medal 
awarded by the President of the 
Sons of the American Revolution 
to the outstanding R. O. T. C. en­
gineer. The outstanding Signal 
Corps student is also to receive 
an award. It will be the first time 
that the organization has recog­
nized students in this way.
Sketch by Elliot Twcry. 
her husband ... a fondness for 
. . Gilbert and Sullivan . . . but
her passion . . . for hot fudge sun­
daes ... is her own . . . Like him, 
too . . . she is an energetic cham­
pion ... of what she thinks . . . 
is right . . . and doesn’t care . . . 
what anybody else’s opinion of it 
is . . . and when Elky . . . takes 
an interest ... in an issue . . . 
things are going to get . . . ac­
complished . . . since she is . . . 
not only a clear thinker . . . but a 
constructive one . . . Goes in for 
. . . off-the-face hats . . . and 
navy blue . . . and drives a car • 
erratically . . . but scientifically 
. . . always managing ... to miss 
that tree . . . somehow.
A. S. M. E. . . .
kotNlt32a euov m4U2 E
Dean Holbrook of the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh Engineering 
School and Director Jcnes of the 
Carnegie Tech College of Engin­
eering will welcome the delegates 
at the first technical session, in 
the Stephen Foster Memorial. R. 
II. Porter of the A. S. M. E. Com­
mittee on Relations with Colleges, 
will speak at the banquet in Hotel 
Webster Hall at 5:30 Friday.
Inspection trips have been plan­
ned to the Irwin Works of the 
Carnegie-Illinois Steel Co., The 
H. J. Heinz Co., the Mellon Insti­
tute, the Bureau of Mines, and the 
campuses of Pitt and Tech.
Judges of papers to be read at 
the technical sessions are C. A. 
Carpenter, of the U. S. Depart­
ment of Commerce; Edwin D. 
Drey fuss, West Penn Power Com­
pany engineer; and Horace W. 
Reisinger, of the Harrisburg 
Foundry and Machine Co.
Wmltlotf 2,mu2ff2a lt NT2 m4U2f oe NT2 hHMhHw 4u2 NTof2 oe NT2 
v2vF2uf oe NT2 fN4eeP lt NT2 case oe NT2 2alNoul4s Oos3vt NT2n 4u2 NTof2 
oe NT2 palNou] hT2n 4u2 toN No F2 OotfNu32a 4f t2O2ff4ulsn NT2 omltlotf 
oe 2lNT2u NT2 fN3a2tN Foan ou NT2 e4O3sNn]dTartiecjie (Tartan
Cnrncjcie Institute of Technology, Sclicnlcy Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONF. MAYFLOWER 2000 
PHONE SCHENLEY 1557
After Office Hours Call 
Editor-in-Cliief ...SChenley 9070 
Business Manager.... HAzel 3898
Advertising; Manager..................
..............................SChenley 9933
Entered »s second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post OfQcc under the Act of 
March 3, 1879
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price SI.00 per year.
palNouRltRksll2e .................................................................................d43s ’of2f
D3flt2ff ’4t4U2u ..............................................................­4uun HFu4voJlN>
’4t4UltU palNou.........................................................................A43s b3ltNT2u
w2xf palNou........................................................................7o4tt2 hlfTs4ulOsl
HfflfN4tN ’4t4UltU palNou................................................D4uF4u4 zu4v2u
komn Editor...........................................................................Gilbert Kivenson
Copy palNou ...............................................................’2uO2a2f k3ttltUT4v
dmouNf Editor .................................................................................Joe Thomas
HaJ2uNlfltU ’4t4U2u .......................................................dnsJ4t Mof2tel2sa
kluO3s4Nlot ’4t4U2u...............................................................dlat2n b2F2sox
dN4ee d2Ou2N4un .....................................................................ATnsslf D3OTv4t
dN4ee HuNlfN .....................................................................................Elliott hx2un
dmouNf AToNoUu4mT2u ................................................................kT4us2f i2tOls
BUSINESS STAFF: Dee Andelln, Ted Burtis ,Ted Nierenberg, Anna 
• Kukic.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Walter Holler, Jeanne King, Marianna Hogg, Wal­
lace Sndauskas, Melvin Snyder, Jack Shore, Bill King, Leonard 
Chotiner, Pat Elman, and Robert Dixon.
REPORTERS: Gerry Edelson, Bud Teichman, Helena Aronson, Walter
Darby, Charles Goehring, T. J. Harmony, Louise Saul, Bill Lloyd,
Doreen Barry.
cotoTd u.o Cntodgg n 
utohu s7H tohkk4 r7 k7uy -
Tart —ir ;
Resting flavo D ^nrt fita¦ attevery daV.MàPOsessions;, nex
occasions obeying fi® P
class, duim<3vf!,ath Hetpsfi«g^®,: svfeeten your fit ^ ^ so fi*e
your srnüe, too^ &S*
: you can errpy D° s today-
daily. Buy several p
Kindred McLeary 
Wins Mural Prize
Kindred McLeary, mural paint­
er and instructor in the depart­
ment of Architecture, has won 
first prize in the national compe­
tition for a mural painting exe­
cuted under the program of the 
Section of Fine Arts.
At either end of the long mural 
are clustered soldiers and huge 
defense guns; between these, tak­
ing up most of the panel, are in­
terpretations of the freedoms en­
joyed by democracy. Freedom of 
worship, freedom of speech, free­
dom in the pursuit of happiness 
are some of the forms of liberty 
illustrated.
The jury agreed unanimously 
that Kindred McLeary “clearly 
has thought of war as a means of 
defense, not as a means of con­
quest. His design richly expresses 
the deep feelings which are stir­
ring America today.”
This is not the first time Mr.
‘ McLeary has won a nation-wide 
competition. In 1935 he executed 
a mural for the Pittsburgh Court 
House'and in 1937 he completed 
a large mural scheme, which has
won the acclaim of his fellow ar- W 
tists, for. the public lobby of the jfi 
Madison Square Branch of the-> 
New York City Post Office.
Incidentally, Mr. McLeary is 
the artist who sketched the map 
of Tech which appeared in the 
Exhibition Issue of the TARTAN.
WHITE TOWER 
nAskCoucoi lD
1*\0 CONVENIENT 1/ ' -umHu;. , Nf ah *j •
A 7 «*» V • • ; } , N I- A ff E t ¦ ; j 1 ¡.
YOUR CHOICEOF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
]"Aem]3
AWp]v 3V"]m3
’yCz d­Hzpd
Made from Pure Whole Milk 
for only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk. 
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED 
—AT—
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
So much that’s important is happening today—in America, 
in Europe, Africa, Asia. And you know about it almost 
as soon as it happens!
Trace most any piece of . news to its source and some­
where you’ll find the telephone or one of its relatives— 
radio telephone or teletype in the picture. These speeders 
of the news have either benefited from telephone research 
or utilize telephone equipment, or both.
In these days, the Bell System is proud that its facili­
ties are helping in the fast and widespread dissemination 
of news—so essential to enlightened public opinion.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 6, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
V CAMELS ARE 
THE SMOKE FOR 
ima PLENTY 
OF FLAVOR—AND'
mEV]W ipOA
WITH LESS 
f Ml COT! IM E IN ( 
\ THE SMOKE
INATIOLDVER
NEW SWIMMING CAPTAIN
RDn 7o2 hTov4f1 dmouNf palNou_
Ted Burtis Elected Swimming Captain
At a recent meeting of the 1940-41 Tech swimming team, Ted 
Burtis who specializes in the sprinting events was elected captain 
of the team for the campaign next winter. Ted is only a sopho­
more but in spite*of this deficiency in years on the squad, was 
chosen to replace the vacancy created by the graduation of co­
captains Molvie and Boelimig. This position is a definite follow- 
up for Ted since he was also honorary captain of the freshman 
team of one year ago.
Ted came to Tech in the fall of 1939 and entered the Engi­
neering school from Mount Lebanon High School where he started 
his career as a swimmer. He is generally conceded to be the most 
powerful swimmer of the splashers remaining for next year’s 
season and has specialized in sprints all during the past season. 
Citcom Clan Wins Point Trophy
During the recent Call Day ceremonies held in the Sylvan 
theater, Queenie Margaret Sullivan presented the Intramural 
Point Trophy to a representative of the Citcom Clan for having 
the greatest number of points for participation in intramural 
sports. The commuters were entered in most of the events spon­
sored by the Board, their most important victory being the win­
ning of the all-school basketball championship. This massive 
trophy is a rotating cup and goes each year to the leading organ­
ization for that school year. This is only the second year that
this cup has been awarded to the participants in Intramural com­
petition, the PiKA’s hold the honor of being the initial winner.
Softball Finals
,h22h 3nrTd Mohu Aokudw FyPR
O7do Aolndnsok4 V7 ­.n ,h2d
Both teams made several errors 
which let runs across the plate. 
Red Wind smashed a triple into 
center field to bring in two of his 
mates who occupied the sacks. 
With one run already in this hit
accounted for the victory for the
Kappa Sigs, 4-2.
The pitching of Ted Pruger and 
errorless fielding added the fra­
ternity championship to the Phi 
Kap’s list. Of course, along with 
capitalizing on these errors, the 
Phi Kap’s hitting was definitely 
Class A. The. errors committed 
by the Kappa Sigs were a big fac­
tor in favor of the winners.
The fraternity mushball season 
is history now and the Phi Kaps 
are the title holders. By virtue of 
a win over the Delts, the Kappa 
Sigs entered the play-offs along 
with the Phi .Kaps.
The Delt-Kappa Sig game was 
one of the hardest fought games 
of the season. Both of the pitchers 
were in good form but neither of 
them, were the deciding factor, 
rather it was the hitting and field­
ing. One thing was very much in 
evidence—that was that the Delts 
played their best game of the year 
but they couldn’t quite make it
ShB7o VnkunB SVD
­27Hkht msoBu
Brill, Richardson 
Dunk All Opponents 
In Panther Hollow
Down deep in the wilds of 
Schenley Park, in Panther Hol­
low, a large crowd of Carnival- 
ling Skibo lads and lassies cheer­
ed for their favorites in the 
annual canoe-tilting classic. This 
event proved to be more than 
successful, if one can judge by 
the size of the turnout and the 
number of contestants. And the 
water in the hollow was just as 
muddy and dirty as ever. But 
this did not bother the twenty- 
two teams, which jousted and 
splashed. . Running true to tradi­
tion, everyone had trouble with 
the poles, the ends of which in­
sisted upon coming off. However, 
the fun was only increased by the 
trouble and most of the tills end­
ed in a general free-for-all, in 
which all concerned got wet; in 
fact, the best way to overcome an 
opponent, it was discovered early 
in the proceedings, was to splash 
water in his canoe. After this 
was accomplished his ability to 
keep his craft balanced was 
measureably decreased. It was 
considered a little uncricket to 
poke holes in the opponents canoe.
Of the twenty-two teams that 
entered, many organizations; 
dormitories and fraternities were 
represented. Going into the semi­
finals were six teams representing 
five organizations. Wearing the 
colors of Kappa Sigma. were two 
teams; Brill and Richardson, and 
Byers and Pritchard. Barker and 
Longsberry represented Delta Tau 
Delta; Tilten and Siebel, Delta 
Upsilon; Bergson and Berkowitz, 
Tau Delta Phi, and Price and 
Bevens, Scobell Hall.
After a grand melee of push­
ing splashing, the teams of Brill- 
Richardson and Byers-Pritchard 
emerged from Davy Jones Lock­
er as winners and qualified for the 
finals. The mud was allowed to 
settle for a few minutes while 
the boys took a little rest, and 
then the fun was renewed. After 
quite an interesting battle, during 
which all got wet, Brill and Rich­
ardson ducked their fraternity 
brothers.
Vh>ko VoBBnd 
DnBhkd Sk7do
Meryl Pincus 
Winning Women Star
The finals of the annual table 
tennis matches were run olï dur­
ing Carnival on Saturday morn­
ing. The results were somewhat 
as expected in all departments. 
There were a great many more 
entrees than in previous years and 
more interest was shown toward 
these finals.
In the men’s singles with Secan 
and Bek vieing for the honors the 
latter took three games out of 
five to take the match. It was 
a hard fought contest as witness­
ed by the scores, because 21-15 
was the lowest score of any one 
game. Bek won the second, third 
and fifth games for the title.
As was predicted, Meyrl Pin­
cus was on practically every win­
ning team in the women’s divi­
sion. She won the singles in her 
department, 21-10,. 21-15, 21-17, 
from Pat Spooner. The women’s 
doubles also saw Miss Pincus 
again teamed with Stine. This 
combination vanquished the field 
to meet the Allmendinger-Arnold 
team in the final match. The 
former took three straight games 
for the number one spot. Again 
in the mixed doubles the .name 
of Pincus bobs up in the win­
ners column. She played with 
Mack against Secan and Stine. 
The games—21-19, 21-14, 25-23 
all went to the Pincus-Mack 
team.
The Sions-Claypool team took 
three games from Goldberger and 
Twery for a win in the men’s 
doubles division. This was an­
other tough match with the win­
ners just squeezing out a vic­
tory. The scores were 21-19, 21- 
17 21-18, 21-16, 21-17, the first,
third and fifth going to Sions and 
Claypool.
The most brilliant performer 
of the day was Miss Meyrl Pin­
cus. Her playing was thà best 
in the field and everything in 
her patch went the way of all 
runner-ups. Because each winner 
received a cup for their splendid 
work in their particular depart­
ment, Miss Pincus should have 
enough of said cups to cover a 
large size mantle.
Trackmen Cop 
Third Victory
guofT dG34a Sltf 
d2Oota ’22N1 ;ERL-
The Tech trackmen followed 
their double win over Geneva 
and Schenley High on April 26 
with another twin killing last 
Wednesday, this time the varsity 
took the measure of Westminster 
College by a score ol' 64 to 62, and 
the freshmen defeating Peabody 
High School by a count of 61 to 
34.
The varsity ran into difficulty 
in subduing the ' Westminister 
boys, since they • had to win the 
last event, the javelin throw, to 
overcome a one point deficiency. 
The two teams ran nip and tuck 
•throughout the meet, but “Cow­
boy” Church came through by 
winning the javelin event. West­
minister protested that instead of 
each man receiving seven throws 
in the javelin, they only received 
four heaves per man. However, 
other weight events were won on 
a similar basis, a fact which per­
meated the score with Tech on 
top.
Kappa Sig Bugay 
Again Victorious
Design Trophy 
Won By PKA’s 
Revamped Buggy
This year’s Pushmobile races 
were nothing short of sensational. 
Both the preliminaries and the 
final race were featured by crack- 
ups and rallies. The pitch of ex­
citement was held up by the con­
stant threat of an accident going 
down the hill into Schenley Park, 
where for some reason or another 
all the mishaps took place.
In the first heat of the prelim­
inaries, the D. U. buggy came 
over the top of the hill first, fol­
lowed closely by the Delts. The 
D. U. vehicle picked up speed 
rapidly going down the hill, but 
due to the appearance of an au­
tomobile it was forced up over 
the curb breaking a wheel for 
the third day in succession. On 
two previous practice runs the 
ill-fated buggy cracked in almost 
the same place. Each time, how­
ever, they repaired it in the hopes 
that it would survive the next 
race.
In the second heat of the trial 
runs, the Kappa Sigs pushed their 
veteran three-wheel buggy to vic­
tory in two minutes, fifty-three 
seconds after passing the Phi 
Kappa vehicle coming over the 
top of the first hill. This time 
was only nine seconds over the 
all time record for the Pushmo­
bile Sweepstakes. This was possi­
ble through the efforts of John 
Lindberg, James Stauffer, Bud 
Burns, Eddie Chipman, Franlc 
Pritchard, star of the freshman 
track team, and Joe Thomas 
driver of the champion pushmo­
bile.
The sleek PIKA buggy was 
forced into inactivity by a fiat 
tire, which couldn't bo repaired in 
time to take their trial run on 
Friday morning. This bad luck 
was only equalled by the ATO’s 
who had two flat tires at the same 
time. The judges decided to al­
low them to take their run on Sat­
urday morning before the finals 
began. This was futile, however, 
because it is doubtful if a push­
er could run the first hill twice 
in one morning; Neither of them 
had the chance to try it, because 
both cracked up going down 
Crash Hill. The ATO’s met their 
doom first, and the PiKA’s in 
trying to avoid hitting them 
cracked up further on.
The finals were run by the 
Kappa Sigs, the Betas, and the 
Delts. The Kappa Sigs had the 
outside lane which increased the 
length of their course by about ten 
yards. It meant that they had to 
circle around the outside of the 
traffic signal. This caused them 
to trail both buggies at the top 
of the hill, but in spite of this 
handicap they completed the 
course in only two seconds over 
their time of the day before; two 
minutes, fifty-five seconds.
w. A. A. NEWS
The above cup Is the Intramural 
Points Trophy which this year 
has been awarded to the Citcom 
Clan.
The Penn State enthusiasts 
have returned from a glorious 
week-end at State College; and 
they arc bubbling with news. Re­
ports of the activities will be 
printed after the next board 
meeting.
Tomorrow the Awards Party 
will be given, and we are inviting 
you all to come. This year the 
committee is planning something 
novel in the way of entertainment 
—you can’t afTo_r,d to miss It.
¦ By BETTY PARKER •
Whether or not you are eligible 
Tor an award, wo want you to 
come and join In the fun.
May 19—and all the high school 
girls will be guest» of the W. A. 
A. at the annual play day. They 
will arrive at 1:30, and the events 
will continue until after lunch. 
The board members will act us 
hostesses, and the activities will 
be carried on in Spanish stylo. 
Several of the girls plan to teach 
the Congo to the guests—and all 
promises to be fun.
The SMOKE of Slower-Burning Camels gives you EXTRA MILDNESS, EXTRA COOLNESS, EXTRA FLAVOR
3nkk
77/JF S/MOKES Tf/£ 7W//VG-/
Vb
LESS NICOTINE
u.hB u.o hsothro 7J u.o F 7u.ot khtroduydokknBr 
>thBUd uoduoUxkodd u.hB hB4 7J u.oN xhll7tUnBr 
u7 nBUo2oBUoBu dlnoBunJnl uodud 7J u.o dN7fo nudokJ
FROM George Washington to'Washington U. it’s 
Camels for smoking pleasure at its best with less 
nicotine in the smoke.
Flavor—you bet! Mildness—more than that: Camels 
give you extra mildness with less nicotine in the smoke. 
Obviously — it’s the smoke you smoke.
No matter how much you smoke, you’ll welcome 
the change to flavorful Camels... the extra-mild ciga­
rette with less nicotine in the smoke. For convenience 
— economy—buy the Camel carton.
n. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, Xorth Carolina
Mv Mz]1p1e PG; 3O"Lm]
than the average of the - other largest-selling brands 
tested—slower than any of them—Camels also give 
you a smoking ms3f equal, on the average, to
5 EXTRA SMOKES PER PACK!

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TAETANTUESDAY, WAY 6, 1941
• T-Tho Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania
Evening 
School 
Section of 
Tartan
Ed itorial Coi muent 
Frateri lai Organizati on 
General News
Scrihhlm’sLETTER TO THE EDITOR
artw GFartutjjte plaid
Appearing 
In This 
Week’s 
Issue
Council Dance 
Engineer’s Banquet 
Letter to Editor
My dear Editor:
It was with regret that I heard 
of the resignation of Ed Nuss as 
editor of the evening page. Con­
gratulations and heartiest praise 
are due Mr. Nuss for the fine 
paper he conducted. It w,£s free 
of rancor and bitterness, yet it 
printed comment from both sides 
of any question. He is an unus­
ually fine fellow and, possessing 
his skill with words, he is the fin­
est editor at Tech in many years. 
The page has been clean, well- 
written, and tolerant. What more 
could be said of any paper?
Those who have read the paper 
every week must have noticed,
too, that this is the first year in 
possibly a decade that the editor 
has not taken it upon himself to 
be a stumbling-block in the path 
of any constructive move made by 
Evening Student Council. Mr. 
Nuss did his own thinking and al­
ways gave co-operation to the 
governing group of the Evening 
student body.
Not only does Mr. Nuss deserve 
orchids of a lasting kind for his 
splendid attitude, but the Coun­
cil of last year should be ap­
plauded for appointing a man of 
his calibre to the position of edi­
tor.
CECIL C. McDERMOTT.
WHEN YOU GO TO COLLEGE 
THIS FALL
Take advantage 
of the "College Special'¦
ROUND TRIP
REDUCED FARES
These special school and college rail tickets, with their liberal ex­
tended return limits, are immensely popular with students and teach­
ers. When you are ready to go to school this Fall, buy one. You may 
use the return coupon to travel home at Christmas. There are also 
reduced round trip Pullman rates in connection with these "College 
Special" tickets. The ticket agent in your own home town, or any 
railroad passenger representative can give you full details regard­
ing return limits, stop over privileges, prices, etc.
Be Thrifty and Safe—Travel by Train 
ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
Music By Knight 
To Close Council 
Dances For Season
A fast game 
finished...pause and
After exercise, nothing is more 
pleasant than a refreshing 
pause with ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Its taste is delicious; and a wel­
come, refreshed feeling always 
follows. So when you pause 
throughout the day, make it the 
pause that refreshes with ice-cold
Coca-Cola. YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
a
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bill Hurtt, Engineers’ Social 
Chairman, was supposed to be 
looking for banquet souvenirs, but 
was seen being slapped by a 
blonde on the comer of Fifth & 
Wood Streets the other day.
Mrs. Eve Rose presented “pap­
py” Bud with a bouncing baby 
boy last Monday. Congratulations 
and loads of luck . . .
Mrs. Lorraine Stroshein has 
quit working to live a happier 
homelife, but we know she’s try­
ing to keep Russ out of the 
draft . . .
3H22koNoBuht4 
3l.oUHko 3ou
Hear 
PAULA KELLY
with America’s No. 1 
Dance Band Leader
GLENN
MILLER
in ’’Moonlight Serenade"
D"] VmSc
TUBS., WED., THURS.
at 10 P. M.
Sa Ma 3a 3uhun7Bd
Last Appeal
Workers Needed 
For Council Dance
This article is an appeal—an 
appeal that has been made again 
and again with little response 
from the students—an appeal for 
workers to assist in the duties 
that must be performed before, 
during and after every social af­
fair that is given.
Carnegie Tech is said to have 
one of the best organized night 
schools in the country. One of the 
reasons for this is the fact that 
those individuals who constitute 
the school’s governing body—Stu­
dent Council—are not afraid to 
WORK. These people give hours 
of their time ironing out the prob­
lems presented from time to time 
during the school season. They 
spend hours planning the social 
affairs that are given for the en­
joyment of the student body. And 
what do they ask in return? Only 
a little cooperation on the work 
involved in presenting those af­
fairs.
This week Student Council pre­
sents the last affair of the season 
—the Spring Dance. This is the 
last opportunity the students will 
have for earning points toward 
an Insignia. There are many jobs 
to be done such as decorating the 
Gym, checking wraps at the af­
fair, and cleaning up after the af­
fair is over. So come out and help. 
You'll meet plenty of new faces 
and who kows, your "future” may 
be among them.
Spring Affair 
Scheduled for 
This Saturday
A capacity crowd is anticipated 
at the Council Dance next Satur­
day evening and because of this, 
Social Chairman Lou Fosner has 
planned the use. of the Gymna­
sium for this event.
May appears to.be the most ro­
mantic month of the school year 
and the theme of the dance deco­
rations has been selected with this 
thought. Sweet music will set the 
stage for one of the finest dances 
ever held on the campus.
Clyde Knight and his band 
have been selected to furnish the 
music for the evening. This or­
chestra is a very popular one and 
it has been brought back again 
and again to the Tech campus, in 
addition to playing for the other 
schools in the Pittsburgh district. 
Clyde and his men have just con-r 
eluded an extended engagement at 
the popular Pittsburgh night spot, 
Bill Green’s. The orchestra fea­
tures the glamorous Janet Lee as 
well as vocalist, Herb Rohrer. 
Traditionally, dancing will begin 
at nine o’clock and the succeed­
ing three hours will prove all 
too short, for Knight has the rep­
utation of playing full measure 
of good music for his crowds.
The admission fee of one dol­
lar a couple is to be paid at the 
door and workers for Insignias are 
urged to tell their friends to pre­
sent their tickets at the door also, 
in order that credit toward the 
Insignia may be properly credit­
ed.
This dance will be the high­
light of a social program which 
has been unusually successful. 
Carnegie’s Evening School dances 
have always been popular with 
the young set in Pittsburgh and 
it is expected that this one will be 
the climax of the best season so 
far.
The nlways-popular crystal 
ball will be the focal point of the 
decorative scheme and pastel col­
ors, suggestive of spring will be 
found in all parts of the Gym­
nasium and reflected in the mir­
rored surfaces of the ball.
Very attractive programs have 
been selected and the first 250 
couples to arrive will be the lucky 
recipients of these souvenirs.
C. S. EDMÄN
PRINTER
0470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
mBrnBootd c7kU 
WBBHhk AnBBot 
Wu 3l.oBko4
Those gentlemen who were 
drafted into the Army within the 
past year from our evening stu­
dents missed one of the best even­
ing entertainments ever offered 
by the Evening College of Engin­
eering. Last Saturday evening in 
the Mirror Room of the Schenley 
Hotel, the evening students of the 
College of Engineering celebrat­
ed their 26th Anniversary with a 
record crowd attending.
Dr. J. E. Thornton, a Special 
Investigator in charge of the 
Pittsburgh Field office of the Fed­
eral Bureau of Investigation gave 
an interesting talk on Crime De­
tection Methods and illustrated 
how these methods apply in some 
of the cases which his Bureau has 
solved in the past few years. 
Needless to say, his speech was 
well received and the students at­
tending showed their apprecia­
tion by t'he applause which fol­
lowed his presentation.
One of the former mayors of 
the City of Pittsburgh, Mr. Wil­
liam N. McNair, also honored the 
banquet with his presence and 
added to the highlights of the 
evening in his own humorous 
manner.
In accordance with the usual 
custom, a delicious dinner was 
served at which all students were 
given a bag of souvenirs and 
many valuable door prizes were
Courses Offered 
In Degree Subjects
Registration for the Supple­
mentary Term (summer school 
evening session) will be held dur­
ing the week of May 19 to 23, 
Monday, May 26, between 7:00 
and 9:00, and on Wednesday, May 
28, between 6:00 and 7:15 in the 
Registrar’s office. Registration for 
the first half of the eight week 
subjects will be held on Monday, 
June 23, 7:00-7:30, for the second 
half of the ten week subjects, 
Monday, June 30, 7:00-7:30. Sum­
mer classes begin May 28, and 
registration receipt cards must be 
presented.
Refer to last week’s issue of 
“The Carnegie Plaid” for a list 
of subjects which may be chosen. 
These subjects only apply to Vo­
cational and Engineering Courses 
and offer a splendid opportunity 
for students striving for a degree 
to decrease the length of time re­
quired to reach that goal.
All five week courses, 5a— 
Foundry I, 7a—Pattern I, la— 
Machine I, and 3a—Forge I can­
not be taken at any other time 
but during the summer months.
Golf Inquiries Sought
The annual Evening School 
Golf Tournament is set tentative­
ly for June 7. Send inquiries and 
suggestions regarding time and 
place of the tournament to Steve 
Marcinizyn, Box 353, C. I. T.
Whether you win or lose, you 
will learn more about golf and 
certainly enjoy the fresh air.
hT2 k4ut2Ul2 As4la
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opin­
ions expressed in editorial column 
are not necessarily endorsed by 
the Editorial Board of the Day 
School Staff.
Editor
Edward Nuss 
News Editor 
Adeline Nuss 
Associate Editors 
Jim Miller 
Jean Berkenbush 
Harold Gcilman 
Staff
Nancy Lewis 
Mary B. McDermott 
Jocelyn Pearsall 
Steve Marcinizyn 
David Pettigrew 
Jr. Kay Schwartz 
Ronald Short 
Frank J. Young
Hear
PATSY GARRETT
with
FRED
WARING
and his Pennsylvanians 
in "Pleasure Time"
D"] VmSc
¿MON., TUES., WED., 
THURS., FRI. 
at 7 P. M.
N. B. C. Stations
C2lIf Uo No
ISÄLYS
MILK SHAKES 
RIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Tlirco Storos in the 
Oollogo Distriot
3711 Forties Street, OitUIund 
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel llill
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
