VOL. 44—No. 10PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950
Tartan Gridders Complete 
Best Season Since 1938
Dr. Baker Guides 
Skibos To Record 
Seven Victories
By Fred Lunt
| In defeating the Westminster 
Titans last Saturday afternoon, 
the Carnegie Tech gridiron team 
did more than just win another 
football game. If equalled the rec­
ord number of games won in a 
season by any team in the history 
of Carnegie football.
The 1950 Plaid grid aggrega­
tion, in winning seven games 
while dropping only one, matched 
the record held by the 1938 Sugar 
} Bowl team, generally rated as | 
Carnegie’s greatest eleven.
Although the caliber of opposi­
tion met this season does not 
equal that of 1938, it must be re­
membered that the Tartan “bowl 
team” was not handicapped by de­
emphasis. Thus this year’s ac­
complishment assumes its true 
significance in relation to per­
formances of the past.
“Rags To Riches”
L Those gridders who completed ! 
* their fourth season of football at j 
Carnegie have been a part of a ' 
truly outstanding “rags to riches” j 
story- They have been members 
of Tartan teams that lost every j 
game their first year, won only j 
one the next season, chalked-up j 
four wins in 1949, and rolled to 
seven successes their final year. j
The man to whom most of the j 
credit for the Carnegie football j 
y revival must be given can be none | 
other than head coach Dr. Eddie i 
Baker. Dr. Baker, along with his j 
very capable assistants, Ed Hirsch- ! 
berg, Walt Burns, and A1 Irwin, j 
has done a magnificent job in j 
converting a losing team into a 
winner in only two seasons. Cer­
tainly he ranks as one of the best 
coaches in the country today.
Simcic and Luchok
A short resume of the 1950 
i season is the best evidence of the 
outstanding job that Dr. Baker 
and his gridders have done.
The Plaid opened the season by 
taking the measure of Davis and 
Elkins College, 20-12. Leading 
all the way, the Tartans were 
sparked by the passing of quar- | 
terback Jack Brourman and the 
running of halfback Irv Shechter.
Halfback Johnny Luchock pac­
ed the attack the following Sat- 
) urday as he scored twice in the 
34-3 win over Bethany. Akron 
University was the next victim, 
with 'long runs by Luchock and 
Nick Simcic leading the Plaid to 
a 26-6 victory. Floyd Wiseman led 
the attack up front.
Dissen’s “Educated Toe”
Allegheny threw a scare into 
the Skibos but the Bakermen 
came from behind twice to win, 
14-13, Gil Dissen’s extra point 
S kicking providing the difference. 
An inspired Tartan squad gave 
Carnegie its first Homecoming 
success in twelve years by up­
setting Case Tech, 36-27. Fritz 
Wilson scored three touchdowns.
Scoring three times in the first 
half against W & J, the Plaid 
played “under wraps” dyring the 
second half, allowing the visitors 
to score twice and narrow the 
r margin to 21-14. The Skibos were 
) swamped by powerful Lehigh the 
the following week, then rolled 
°v^r Westminster to close the I 
highly successful season.
Nick Simcic
Leads Plaid Scorers
Simcic Again 
Leads Skibos As 
Ground-Gainer
For the third straight year Nick 
Simcic led the Tartan gridders in 
both total yardage gained and in 
scoring. In 113 attempts, Simcic 
gained 825 yards to lead his near­
est competitor, Johnny Luchok, 
who gained 525 yards in 69 at­
tempts.
End Fritz Wilson had the high­
est average for yards gained with 
351 yards gained in the 17 times 
he carried the pigskin, all on pass 
receptions.
Luchok had the best rushing 
average.
DiGiovanni, Oberg, 
Simcic S,core 
In Grid Finale
The Carnegie Tech Tartans de­
feated the Westminster College 
Titans last Saturday by a 20-0 
score to complete one of the most 
successful campaigns in Tartan 
gridiron history.
In winning its seventh victory 
in eight starts, the Skibos equalled 
the previous high record set by 
the 1938 Sugar Bowl team.
In the first quarter the Skibos 
took the opening kickoff and ran 
up four consecutive first downs 
and drove 85 yards before being 
stopped on the Titan one yard 
line.
After the Titans kicked out of 
their own territory the Scots 
again came roaring back to finally 
score their first TD. It was little 
Augie Di Giovanni who drove 
through right tackle to score his 
first touchdown in four years of 
intercollegiate football. The extra 
point was missed after a bad pass 
from center.
Late in the second period 
Chuck Fuellgraf recovered a Titan 
incompleted lateral to set up an­
other Skibo score. Arne Oberg 
then fought his way through the 
center of the line for five yards 
and the tally. Dissen’s kick was 
good to make the .score 13-0.
[Continued on page 4]
“Nice Going!”
Simcic ..........
TDPAT
0
FG
0
PTS.
36
Luchok ..............0030
Wilson ..........0030
Oberg ..............0024
Disseti ................18121
DiGiovanni ....006
Holtz . ................006
006
Pakos ................006
Shechter »........006
Totals ..........................25181171
SC Election
Student Council elections 
will be held Tuesday, Decem­
ber 12.
Petitions of nomination for 
this election are now availa­
ble in the Dean of Men’s Of­
fice (IH 144). An individual 
may sign as many petitions 
as he or she desires provided 
they are for candidates in his 
or her school. The election is 
open to all full-time students 
in E&S, Margaret Morrison, 
and Fine Arts.
Petitions are due Friday, 
December 1, at 4:30 iif the 
Dean of Men’s Office.
Allan J. Moore 
Elections Chairman 
Student Council
Vacation
Thanksgiving vacation for 
Carnegie students officially 
begins at 5:30 p.m., Wednes­
day, November 22. Classes 
will resume at 8:30 a.m. Mon­
day, November 27.
For the second time in as many years, the Tartan finds 
itself in a position to extend congratulations to Carnegie 
Tech’s football players and coaches on a winning season. 
They have decisively proved that last year was no mistake, 
and that there does exist a formula for sanity in college foot­
ball.
The semi-professional conditions existing in college ath­
letics today appears to be slowly approaching a crisis. The 
number of small colleges abandoning football, because of the 
impossibility of keeping in step with larger schools, is in­
creasing with each passing season. Well-founded rumors 
have also started spreading about a few of the larger col­
lege teams in the country cutting down on football expenses.
Many sports authorities, the most recent one being Arch 
Ward of the Chicago Tribune, have patted Carnegie Tech on 
the back for proving its point of education before athletics. 
They are slowly coming around to the reasoning which led 
to Carnegie Tech’s present athletic policy; providing the 
best possible athletic teams within the educational structure 
of the school.
It is quite possible that within a very short time, as more 
people climb on the band wagon for sanity in college sports, 
that Carnegie will be recognized as the pioneer in establish­
ing the center line for college football. A path which col­
leges may fearlessly tread in the future without endangering 
scholastic and financial standards, and without turning a 
deaf ear to alumni and students pleas for representative 
athletic teams.
To the coaches, players, and managers, then, we say 
congratulations on a job well done!
SC Drops Rally Plan 
For Coaches, Players
At its last meeting Student Council decided to forget the idea 
of a post-season rally in honor of the football team. Since many 
other rallies have gone unsupported councilmen felt it would be 
better to publish a letter of appreciation in the Tartan instead of 
scheduling a rally. ? —
In an informal discussion, Coun­
cil considered the possibility of 
lengthening summer vacations. 
Council also approved the consti­
tution of the Betterment of Grades 
club, an organization which will 
include both social and scholastic 
functions.
Two Plans
The Plan's and Programs com­
mittee offered two plans whereby 
the students could show their ap­
preciation to the team for the best 
season in recent years. One was 
a post-season ra'ly in honor of 
players, coachcr,, and managers— 
the other a letter of appreciation 
to be published in the Tartan.
A. J. Moore reminded Council 
that a similar rally held last year 
was far from a success. After fur-
benefit those students desiring 
summer work.
Earlier Vacation
Council did not hold a formal 
discussion of the matter, so no 
action was taken. The suggestion 
was brought up principally to test 
members’ reactions. All present 
seemed favorably disposed to the 
proposition, differing only as to 
the places where time should be 
sacrificed.
The newly chartered BOG club 
united former members of the ex­
tinct Rho Club, which was the 
successor to the Alpha Phi Delta 
fraternity. The original organiza­
tion disappeared during the war.
This was the third meeting 
where their constitution was con­
sidered. There was some question
ther discussion it was decided to ! at the first two discussions as to 
adopt the second plan and pub- the exact nature of the group. For 
lish a letter to the Tartan. that reason a charter member was
(See editorial on page 2.) asked to be present at last Wed-
By the shortening of a couple ! nesday’s meeting. However, after 
of the more brief school vacations, | clarification of several points by 
the end of the spring semester of j Don Bickelman, who brought the 
1952 could be advanced about a J constitution before Council, the 
week, according to a report by: BOG representative was chal- 
Art Christopher. The main idea lenged on but one point, and the 
behind the proposed change is to i motion passed without dissent.
Freshmen !
Each freshman in the Col­
lege of Engineering and Sci­
ence and the division of Hu­
manistic and Social Studies 
is to select and attend one of 
the departmental meetings 
which will be held during the 
assembly hour on Tuesday, 
December 5, 1950. Attendance 
will be taken at these meet­
ings.
The purpose of the meet­
ings is to give each freshman 
a chance to discuss with the 
head of one of the profession­
al departments why he is re­
quired to take the courses in 
his curriculum, why they are 
taught the way they are, and 
how he can make his fresh­
man and sophomore work 
help him mosf in the years 
that follow.
Each freshman may attend 
any of the departmental 
meetings listed below, irre­
spective of his elected depart­
ment; Chemical Engineering, 
Room 1112 EH; Civil Engi­
neering, Room 123-3 IH: 
Electrical Engineering, Room 
11 MH; Industrial Manage­
ment, Room 232-F III; Me­
chanical Engineering, Room 
104 IH; Metallurgical Engi­
neering. Room 122 EH; Print­
ing Management, Science De­
partments (chemistry, math­
ematics, physics) room 218 
EH.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2TA4M*ANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950 fj)
Editorials—
In Thanksgiving
The day after tomorrow Americans will be celebrating 
Thanksgiving day. And while none of us can ever get away 
from the happy though that it means a long-awaited vaca­
tion from the books, it seems very appropriate that this 
year we should attach more meaning than ever before to 
this one day in the year set aside for thanksgiving.
It has been very noticeable during the past couple of years, 
that Americans have all but overlooked the real significance at­
tached to Thanksgiving Day by early Americans. The vast com­
mercialism thrown on the Christmas season has helped us to for­
get the many things which we can be thankful for on this day. ^ 
Each year the Yuletide season is moved up a little earlier, until 
advertising campaigns are now directed at Christmas before 
Thanksgiving ever arrives.
Let’s try to take a very brief pause in the ever-increas- 
ing tempo of present-day life, and remember this year that 
as Americans we have very much to give thanks for.
“... But Not One Cent
For Tribute”
Students Council managed to do it again! With a gold­
en opportunity to sponsor a victory rally for Carnegie Tech’s 
best football team in a dozen years, Council members decided 
that they would “rather not risk making—fools” of them­
selves and dropped the entire idea.
After the unauthorized rally following the Case game caused 
considerable consternation among both student and administra­
tion groups, Council decided to assume full responsibility for 
future rallies. In fact, a Council committee met President War- j 
ner to discuss the conduct of any such rallies. A tentative plan 
Mas arranged whereby a rally would be held if Carnegie suc­
ceeded in defeating Lehigh last week. If this victory was not 
to be in the cards for the Tartans, then several members of both 
administration and student groups felt that a post-season rally 
in honor of Carnegie's coaches and players was certainly in order.
At last Wednesday’s meeting, council members held an 
informal discussion on the question of conducting such a 
rally either yesterday or today. Going mostly on the reac- j 
tion to last year’s rally, which was a dismal failure, the sup- 1 
posed student representatives tossed any idea of honoring 
this year’s team out the window—with the exception of the j 
possible publication in the Tartan of a letter to the team from 
the student body.
If Council would have shown more enthusiasm in investigat­
ing last year’s rally, they would have found several good reas­
ons why it didn't go over so well. First, it was held on a 
Tuesday, a very bad day to conduct such an affair; and sec­
ondly, it took place during lunch hour.
In talking over the plan for another such rally this year, 
we learned from leaders among various groups, that if a 
9:30 or 10:30 hour on Monday morning was set for the rally, 
the difficulties involved in last year’s attempt would be 
overcome. In other words, while they could have no posi­
tive assurance of good attendance, Council could deduct 
that students would be free from classes for an hour, would 
have nothing else planned for this free hour, and would in 
all probability want to attend a well-planned rally.
It's about time that Council members started presenting bet­
ter excuses for their actions rather than the selfish one of “hav­
ing to assume responsibility and then not being backed up by the 
student body.” If Council members cannot get student cooperation, 
then they are either too lazy to go after it, or else they are not 
true representatives of the student body.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. VO075 Forbes Street Pittsburgh 13, Pa. /
TELEPHONE SChenley 1-4557; after hours, MUseum 1-5255; for advertising and 
subscriptions, MTJ 1-7434. MU 1-4076.
Published weekly during the school year, except Holidays and examination periods, 
bv tne tudents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.
Editoi -in-Chiel ...........................................................................................................Paul V. OffermannKastnrw Manager ...... ...............................................................................Morty H. Baker
Managing I ditoi ................................................................................................................Lloyd W Dyer
Pfrssnntt Manager ........................................ .......................... ...........................Hay J. Mangold
New* fcditor—Naicy Sitlei Sports Editor —Fred Lunt. Make-up Editor— AJ Bader. 
t«p% tdit«r—Fred Son ne-n berg. Feature« Editor—Dolores Mitchell. Assistant Busi­
ness Manager— Bud Smith. Advertising Manager—David Goldsmith. Circulation 
Manager- AI Sell Photography Editor—Dick Gilson. Proof Editor—John Tancill. 
Aunxiai Sp»n» Hi tor—Art Christopher
Chiei reporters—Shiriee Ploegei. Jane Robb. Personnel Assistant—Dick Wood*. 
Reporters—Estelle Herlick, Marilyn Sweeney, Rosemary Serafini. Sports Staff— 
Joan Cu^merton, Justin Davidson, Bob Lynch, A1 Moota*. Cal Smith, Larry Sum- 
rner.il1 Art Staff—Henry Carisen. Carroll Gantz, Ken Ferguson, Duane Quintal, 
Jiiiv V. oi man. Make-up Staff—Bea Pollack. Dick Ahlstrom. Proof Staff—Robert 
Brow: Feature Staff—Candy Kane Ivan Sturman. Photography Staff—David
Goldsmith, Martin Snydennan. Jim Walker. Headline Staff—Vince Ribas. Sally 
Ward Sluiley Lax-on Copy Staff—Jeanne Shutrump. Pat Miller. Cub Reporter— 
Ann Parker. Julie Cosentino, Jane Dowling, Bill Smith. Bob McQuad, Dick Durstine. 
Joan Webb Advertising staff Anne Philhower, Sally Woodroof, Jerry Seiner, 
Marilyn Seiner. John Strobie. Circulation! Staff--Barry Innerfield, Don Weaver. 
Secretary-—Eleanor Doniger Typist—Joan Novak Mildred Thompson. Posy Price 
Anita Makrauer
Kep.oented tot national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College 
Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscription SI. 10 
per vrarEntered as -econo class rnattei oo Oct. 4. 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, 
Pa . inder the Act of March 3. 1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate of 
•»aU*,« mrovKWBd tot in Me Act ot Febiuary 28, 1925. Authorized October *1, 1*18• *
Open Letter To Students—
UAC Advises Administration 
On Social, W elf are Problems
In the Spring of 1949 the Un-#-----——-----------------------------------------
dergraduate Advisory Committee ! The survey which UAC con- 
was organized upon recommenda- ; ducted during the remainder of 
tion of President Doherty. The the weekend, though, revealed that 
express purpose of the organiza- no organized plan for such a rally 
tion was to act as a student ad- had been completely formulated, 
visory group to the president and The committee felt that neither 
as a student leadership committee the students nor the school would 
to investigate student welfare benefit from an unorganized dis- 
problems. play whether officially sanctioned
The group, composed entirely of or not. The embarrassing situa- 
students, has acted in the above tion which resulted verified this 
capacity since that time. By striv- decision.
ing to take an unbiased attitude j It is UAC’s aim to promote those 
towards the problems which it , actions in the administration 
discusses, UAC is aimed at sug- j which will aid the students and 
gesting the most satisfactory so- J to perform a similar service for 
lutions for both the student body j the administration, 
and administration together. It | The committee’s capacity, how­
ever, is merely advisory. It has 
no authority to carry out any of 
its decisions nor to direct others 
to do so.
By presenting the above state­
ments to the student body, UAC 
hopes to better equip itself for its 
job. It is the sincere hope of the 
committee that this information 
will aid and encourage student 
advice and support.
Sincerely, 
UNDERGRADUATE 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE
f
has been, and is now, a channel 
whereby these latter groups may 
seek the desire., and needs-of each 
other.
The most striking recent exam­
ple of the working of the com­
mittee followed the Homecoming 
football game. Upon UAC’s rec­
ommendation a Saturday evening 
rally was sanctioned by President 
Warner. It became apparent at 
that time that sentiment was high 
for another celebration on Mon­
day morning.
cU'P
By Dolly Mitchell (
SWEET ADELINE . . . How much 
beer can you consume? The CIT 
employment bureau received a 
| call for a part-time bartender and 
waiter. Here is a “golden oppor­
tunity.”
YOU GOT A DIME, BUD? . . .
Fraternity men will be surprised 
when they see the bill each group 
must pay for the Inter-fraternity 
Formal. Each bill averages about4) 
171 dollars. That is the price of 
having a name band, bud.
AIN’T THAT A SHAME . . .
After students financed the Kiltie 
Band’s trip to Westminstei, the 
band did not play at half-time 
anyway. Westminster dedicated a 
college building at the half, so the 
Kilts had to be content with a 
pre-game session.
THE BIG POT . . . Theta Xi Fra- 
j ternity lays claim to having the 1 largest coffee urn on campus.
RAH FOR FROSH . . . This year 
the freshmen had a higher aver­
age factor than freshmen attained 
at mid-semester last year.
EXCAVATIONS . . . Workers are 
now digging underneath Machin­
ery Hall to install the new water 
system there. Just hope the “dam 
don’t burst.”
FASCINATIN’ . . . Students seem 
| fascinated by the hammer that is 
breaking the foundations at the 
end of I.H. where the quonset 
| huts stood. “Inkidently,” the 
school plans to build a parking 
lot there.
1 SABOTAGE . . . Delta Tau Delta 1 Fraternity took to cots two weeks 
ago when banana cream pie prov­
ed too much for the boys ,o han­
dle. Apparently the pie v-as the^j 
cause of the food poisoning.
DRAMA SUCCESS . . . Les Ros­
enberg, “50” drama graduate, is 
| receiving many rave notices in 
\ Washington for the acting ability 
he displays in the Washington 
: theatre plays. Les’s stage name is 
Lester Rawlins.
WELL BEATEN PATH . . . The
TGIF meetings at the Greeks have 
i been well attended since mid- .
! term exams are finished. TGIF, in^
| case you forgot, means “Thank 
God It’s Friday.”
LIGHT ON THE SUBJECT . . .
Another new feature has been 
added to the modern Public Re­
lations office in I.H., new lamps, 
that is. The office is beginning to 
look like an extension of More- 
wood Gardens lounge.
EVEN YOUR BEST FRIENDS . . .
The Daily Texan, a college news-v 
paper, said that the to-lowing 
question was asked in a chemis­
try test at the school: “The aroma 
which emanates from cnemistry 
605 is caused by-------.’’ The an­
swer, “Teacher’s jokes” led “hy­
drogen sulfide’ by a vote of 2 to 1.
“You are kind, courteous and obedient . . . Your favorite
pjwtine is to lay ta from! of whe fireplace and be scratched behind 
the
3-Hour Service 
On Dry Cleaning
ROUGH-DRY
LAUNDRY
Washed and Dried
SHIRTS
Washed and finished
CAMPUS
CLEANERS
4*09 Forbii St.

---------------------------------------------------

If TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950TAWAMPage 3
F rats P ledge W ork Begins
More Students On CIT’s New
Recent Additions Bring |IA Buildine 
Campus Total To 211 | ^
$1,300,000 Building 
To Be Completed 
By March of ’52
^ Fraternities have pledged 34 ad­
ditional men since rush week to 
swell the number of new pledges 
on campus to 211.
Those additional pledges are:
Alpha Tau Omega—Bob Duf­
fers, Dick Webster, Bill Draper, 
Rich Cloughley, Jim Walden, John 
Warner, Bob Bultman.
Beta Sigma Rho—Jerald Adler, 
y Larry Mers&l, Larry Gassner, 
Fred Stern.
Beta Theta Pi—Jim Valias, Ron 
Bushick, Earl Mendenhall, Bill 
Kerr, Paul Noel.
Delta Tau Delta — Bud Kelly,
George Carl.
Delta Upsilon — Allan Wissin- 
ger, Mark Johnson, Gerald Less- 
man, Fred Schmitt, Kai'l Kon- 
nerth, Richard Kramer, Charles 
^ Brooks.
Kappa Sigma—Frank McQuinn, 
Thomas Mason, John Yerman, 
John Regney, Richard Stall, 
Bruce Bartlett.
Phi Kappa—Jack Lasky.
Pi Kappa Alpha—Jack Cowal- 
les, John McNocher, Howard 
Phillips.
Sigma Nu—Dick Stevens.
Carnegie’s new $1,300,000 
! School of Industrial Administra­
tion is now under way amid new 
j piles of dirt and uprooted trees. 
The building will stand on the 
Skibo parking lot at the corner 
of Tech and Frew streets.
• General construction for the 
nation’s first graduate School of 
Industrial Administration was 
contracted by Crump Inc., of 
Pittsburgh. The building was- 
originally scheduled to be. started 
last spring; but because of the 
Korean situation and the result­
ing fluctuation in prices, the 
school was unable to obtain bids 
within the funds available.
The new graduate school was 
j started last year by a $6,000,000 
I gift to Carnegie Tech from the 
I W. L. and May T. Mellon Founda- 
| tion.
The expected completion date is 
March 31, 1952, barring strikes, 
wars, and price raises. Classes 
will begin in the new building 
on February 1, 1952.
BALL
Front row (seated, left to right): 
Shirley Fatula, Marian Fischman, 
Ann Rose, Jane Conner. Second 
row (standing, left to right): Mary 
Cauffield, Joy Ostergaard, Janet 
Slye, Nancy Davis, Susie Men- 
ger, Kitty Ditty, Charlotte Mer- 
riman, Janet Fitzsimmons, Jo Ann 
Weihl. Absent: Barbara R. White, 
Shirley Williams.
Lady Colonel to Reign 
AtROTC Military Ball
Dance On December 2 To Feature 
Brad Hunt, Award Of Pash Trophy
Recognize these keys?
MJilight are the famous keys of national honor societies* 
No. 9 is an important newcomer.’ It’s the Bell System’s new keyset for 
the direct dialing of Long Distance telephone calls. And, though not yet 
"national,” it already has "chapters” in more than 900 cities and towns;
By pressing these keys, your operator can dial calls straight through to tele* 
phones in many distant places; Calls go through faster, more accurately.
Automatic dialing of Long Distance calls by operators, a development of the 
Bell Telephone Laboratories, is being extended steadily. This new method of 
putting through Long Distance calls is especially important right now, when 
the nation is counting on telephone service to help speed the job of defensej
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Keys shown: 1. Sigma Xi (ScientiBc Research). 2. Sigma Tau (Engineering). 3. Sigma Pi Sigma (Physics). ? Beta Gamma Sigma (Commerce* 
1 Beta Alpha Pat (Accounting) 6. Blue Kay (Service). Ti.Omwon Delta Kapp* (Me«'* Leadership). 8. Pi Gamma Mu (Social Science*
ROTC will have three new officers after December 2, the date 
of Scabbard and Blade’s Military Ball. An honorary colonel and two 
lieutenant colonels will be elected from 15 girls who have been chosen 
from Morewood Gardens, the seven sororities, and Citcom Clan.
Morewood Gardens will send*~ 
seven candidates. Tower A nomi­
nated Jane Connor and Ann Rose;
Tower B, Kitty Ditty and Janet 
Fitzsimmons. Tower C will send 
Mary Cauffield, while Tower D 
will be represented by Nancy 
Davis and Jo Ann Weihl. Citcom’s 
entry will be *a sophomore, Shir­
ley Williams.
’ Officiate In June 
Delta Gamma and Kappa Alpha 
Theta will each send seniors, Janet 
Slye and Susan Menger respec­
tively. The other five sororities 
have chosen juniors. Shirley Fa­
tula of Sigma Kappa and Joy 
Ostergard from Kappa Kappa
When the Filter in Medico 
Pipe* or Cigarette Holders 
turns brown, throw it 
away with the nicotine, 
tars, juices and flakes 
it has trapped. Insert 
a fresh Filter to get 
cooler, cleaner, 
dryer, purer 
smoking!
Real 
Filters 
. not mers 
holliw tubes
Gamma will vie for honors along 
with Barbara White from the 
Tri-Delts. Alpha Epsilon Phi has 
picked Marian Fischman, while 
Chi Omega has nominated Char­
lotte Merriman.
The three women who receive 
their eagles and silver leaves dur­
ing the intermission of the Ball 
will officiate at the president’s re­
vue in June. The R.O.T.C. stu­
dents will elect them about No­
vember 30.
Award Pash Trophy
Besides commissioning the colo­
nels, during intermission. Scab­
bard and Blade and Pershing Ri­
fles will call their new pledges. 
Also, the football player who has 
been chosen by his team mates 
and coaches as the outstanding 
player of the year will receive the 
Joe Pash Memorial Trophy. This 
will be the fifth year that Phi 
Kappa has presented the cup to a 
star football player. For the last 
two years it has been won by Nick 
Simcic.
The dance, which will last from 
9-12, will be the first all-school 
formal of the year. Brad Hunt 
and his orchestra will play. Ac­
cording to the customary ruling, 
flowers will bo banned. The ac­
cepted dress for men is a uniform 
or tux. The uniform may be that 
of the R.O.T.C., or one that was 
formerly worn in the service.
The $2.50 tickets may be bought 
in Skibo or from any member of 
Scabbard and Blade.
MIDiCO V. r. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY 
Pipe* of specially »elected imported briar.Sfl 
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L 
Alto Frank Medico *Standard"... 
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pip» 
frank Medico Cigarette Holders & *1MEDICO
FILTER PIPES
RENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds as Low as
American Typewriter Co. 
U WoodS». (0.1-1019Convenient Parking ®v 1 * V I #
OLAEPSi
More BOUNCE To The Ounce

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TAIWAN
Carnegie Opens Floor Season 
November 29 At Steubenville
Coach Cratsley's Tartans Hope To Improve 
On Successful Record Of Last Year’s Team
The Carnegie Tech hoopsters, under the able direction of Coach 
Mel Cratsley, serving his second year as head director of Tartan 
court fortunes, open another page in the 1950-51 sports revue Wed­
nesday night. November 29, .as they journey to Steubenville, Ohio, 
for the initial game of a new 
basketball season.
Playing for the first time on the I 
Steubenville floor, the Plaid will ! 
be favorites to cop their first game.
At full strength with the expected 
return of forward Bob McCul­
lough, who has been sidelined 
with an old elbow injury, the Ski- 
bos will be striving to repeat last 
year’s winning performance.
Shine In Practice
Although missing the services j 
of Jack Riehl. Joe Matsey, and j 
Captain Mike Theodore from last I 
year's team, which turned in the | 
best Carnegie season since 1939, j 
Ihe Plaid has been shaping up j 
very well in practice.
In practice games the Plaid has j 
looked good against such teams as ; 
the Swissvale Legion and the :
Homestead C.I.O., which are com- i 
posed largely of former college ! 
stars.
Playing for the second year un- i 
der a new system of set plays, in- i 
stalled by Cratsley upon his ar­
rival. the team has been showing ;
Football Playoffs
Due to the inclement weather 
that has been prevalent lately, 
the intramural football cham­
pionship playoffs have had to be 
postponed.
It is for this reason that the 
Tartan has been unable to con­
tinue its full coverage of the 
games. However, as soon as play 
resumes, the Tartan will com­
plete its write-ups of the play-
Pictured above with coaches Mel Cratsley and Moe Fassinger 
are the seven Skibo floormen wTho will carry most of the attack 
this season. Five of these seven will make up the starting lineup 
when the Tartans open the season next Wednesday. Rear row (1. to 
r), coach Cratsley, Craig, Holste, Hamman, McCuIlugh, and coach 
Fassinger; front row (1. to r.), Bianchi, Beck, and Thompson.
poise and polish it lacked last 
year.
Improved Opponents
Coach Cratsley feels certain this 
year's team will rate on a par with 
lhat of last, although making no 
predictions as to the season’s rec­
ord. While playing the same class 
schedule this year, the Carnegie 
five will be facing greatly im­
proved teams in most instances.
The starting lineup for the 
Steubenville game is still uncer­
tain as the players continue to 
fight it out for positions. The 
team this year is well balanced 
and will be deeper in reserves, 
with nine or ten men who seem 
to click in any combination.
At the pivot spot, Connie Ham- 
mann, playing his fourth varsity 
year, seems to have the nod at the 
present time, although Hilary 
Holste, 6-4 junior, is pushing him 
hard for the place.
Back From Service
At the forward spots McCuIlugh 
and Tom Craig are the probable 
starters with Bill Farbacher and 
Hans Ackermann, who played for 
the Plaid before a service hitch, 
-close contenders.
Len Bianchi and Tom Beck, 
starters from last year’s team, 
seem slated for the guard berths, 
but Kay Thompson, up from the 
freshman squad, has shone in 
practice and could break into the 
lineup. Whatever the starting 
lineup, all nine of these men will 
be sure to see plenty of action 
during the season.
The Plaid’s second game will be 
with Lawrence Tech, December 1, 
at Detroit. Lawrence Tech, one of 
the country’s better teams, was 
upset by the Tartans last year and 
will be out to avenge their defeat.
Tartan Soccer Team Finishes* %
! Season W ith Tie And Loss
The Carnegie Tech soccer team climaxed its 1956 season with 
; two away games last week. On Tuesday, November 15. the Plaid 
booters battled to a 2-2 tie with Indiana State Teachers College. 
The Tartans traveled to Grove City last Friday, November 18, only
to bow 2-0. ? -------
Playing their usual hard-luck t a medocre won-lost record, coachibrand of ball, the Skibos com- ! Pat O’Connor remarked, “This is
i pletely outclassed the booters from 
i Indiana but were unable to score 
i when it counted. Burry and 
' Crespo tallied the Tartan goals. 
! Both teams were hampered by the 
! muddy field.
Hribar Elected Captain 
Although they played a fine 
game, the Tartans were held 
scoreless by Grove City last Fri- 
| day. Southworth and Laderan 
| scored the Grove City goals in the 
I second and third periods.
After the Grove City game, the 
team elected Rudy Hribar, Junior 
Chem E, to captain next year’s 
team. He succeeds John Burry, 
this year’s captain, who finished 
his last year of eligibility.
“O’Connor Traises Team” 
Although the team showed only
Headquarters for Fraternity & 
Sorority Supplies
Oakland Hardware
3606 FORBES ST.
MA. 1-0923
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
I 12.1 OAKLAND AVE.MA. 1-4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
25 YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
one of the best teams I have ever 
coached They have consistently 
outplayed their opponents, but 
they did not seem able to score 
when it counted. They just didn’t 
get the breaks they deserved.”
The season’s record:
Frostburg 3 ............................................CIT J
Oberlin 3 ...........................................*CIT I
Slippery Rock 3...................................CIT 1
Thiel 3......................................................CIT I
Westminster 1 .................. .CIT 0
Allegheny 1 ............................................CIT 5
Indiana 2 ......................................„..CIT 2
Grove City 2 ..........................................CIT 0
Your I.D. CARD Means
I co/i* Off 0n Jewelry¦ 3 /O WTT Watch Repairs
TIME SHOP
3623 Fifth Ave. SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
FATHER A MK\ i
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Bowling
AFTERNOON, SAT. & SUN. 
BOWLING
407-409 CRAIG ST.
SC. 1-9307
MEN SSilioeM - L.4—
1723 MURRAY AVE. (Near Forbes St.) 
Pittsburgh 17, Pa.
“Always a Good Pair
PROFESSIONAL 
EYE CARE
• Eyes Examined
• Prescription Glasses
• Fitted, Adjusted, Duplicated.
DR. GERRY BONDY
OPTOMETRIST 
Forbes Building 
Cor. Forbes at Atwood St.
By Appointment Only 
MU. 2-6882 or HA. 1-5461
Open Every Evening (Except Mon.)
Gridders Win Finale, 
Smother Titans, 20-0
[Continued from page 2]
It is interesting to check the play of the Tartans by noting that 
the Titans scored only one first down and had a negative total 
yardage during the entire first half of the game. f
In the third quarter the Scots fumbled on the Westminster
~^43-yard line and the Titans start- 
^^U y j^|0 ed 3 sus^aine<^ drive which carried
Teams Enter 
IM Volleyball
With football nearing the finals, 
volleyball has begun to take the 
intramural spotlight. This year 
the competition will be divided 
three leagues as it was last 
year; they will each contain seven
.___________________TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950 I)
esterday and today are the 
days of initial league, play for 
most of the teams. Some, how- 
, will not engage in official 
action until after the Thanksgiv­
ing holiday.
Kiltie league includes the 
, Delta Tau Delta, Sigma 
i Kappa, T u^Delta Phi, 
'heta Pi, and the Dorm
Members of thè Plaid League 
are Emanon, Theta Xi “B”, the 
Raiders, Pi Kappa Alpha, the 
Vandals, and Alpha Tau Omega.
Theta Xi “A”, the Blackbirds, 
Kappa Sigma, Citcom Clan, the 
Metals, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and 
Beta Sigma Rho constitute the 
Tartan League.
them to the Carnegie 14 yard line 
where Jerry Blumfeldt intercept­
ed a pass to give the Tartans the 
ball once more.
After another Tartan fumble, 
the Titans drove back to the CIT 
25-yard line where another Blum­
feldt interception stemmed th® 
Westminster drive.
The Tartans then took to the 
air- with Holtz uncorking a 30- 
yard aerial to Fritz Wilson who 
made a fine catch to put the ball 
on the 30-yard line.
In the fourth quarter the Skibos 
continued to> dominate the play as 
they drove 70 yards for their third 
and final tally. A 15-yard run by 
Luchok and an unnecessary 
roughness penalty against West­
minster put the ball on the Titan 
16-yard line.
After a Holtz to Luchok pass 
netted 10 yards, three line bucks 
by Oberg and Simcic resulted in 
Simcic’s going over for the final 
tally. The conversion by Dissen 
was successful and the scoring 
ended at 20-0, favor of the Tar­
tans.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS. Inc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
No Formal Complaints . .
in com f or table
Arrow Formal Shirts
No struggle to go formal when you have 
Arrow dress shirts. They’re specially de­
signed for comfort! You’ll see the Arrow 
“Shoreham” and “Mayfair” at important 
proms throughout the country. And now at 
your favorite Arrow dealer’s. 00 up
ARROWSHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
FRANK MEN’S WEAR
5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings

---------------------------------------------------

TAMBANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950
Tartan Lineman Of The Week
Lou Fougere, senior right end 
Qii the Plaid grid team, has been * ? t
.earned the Tartan Lineman of the * »¦ ¦ >.». \‘v'j|fiS[
‘Week for his brilliant performance ‘ ¦ ^'Ip*
in the game with Westminster last 4
Saturday. Fougere played excel-
lent football both offensively and ^1111
fensively as the Skibos rolled to Sr 
their seventh win of the season. W 
The six-foot, 185-pound termi- |
.nal was particularly outstanding &.
jrom the standpoint of offensive J
blocking, fJaving the way for the 1
Tartan backs to pick-up yardage
on end sweeps. It was Fougere f
who applied the key block on the
oflf-tackle thrust by Augie DiGio-
vanni that gave the Scots their
first score.
Playing his final game at Car-. jnegie, Fougere made two fine ^^a^waattigiwwBiliBBWWlliWIIBM
catches of Holtz aerials and was Lou Fougere
even better than usual on defense. Lineman Of The Week
Utzig Is Winner 
Of Final Tartan 
Football Contest
This week the results of the 
football contest were almost mi­
raculous. When the tally was 
taken it was discovered that a 
total of 23 contestants had suc­
ceeded in calling nine out of the 
ten games correctly.
After tabulating the total scor­
ing differentials of the various 
entrants it was determined that 
the winner was Larry Utzig, a 
senior in the Industrial Manage­
ment Department.
Utzig's one mistake came as a 
result of the upset by Illinois over 
the powerhouse of Ohio State, in 
which he picked the latter to win. 
He succeeded in calling the Mi­
chigan State-Pitt game by the 
correct score.
Every year at this time the problem of selecting Car­
negie’s outstanding football player of the year is undertaken. 
Although we do not claim to be even a médiocre judge of 
gridiron talent, we have sat on the sidelines for four years 
and noted the capabilities of the various gridders. Since the 
ballots have already been cast, and since our opinion is not 
considered (and rightly so), we feel that no harm can come 
from our selecting the man that we believe has contributed 
the most to the gridiron success of the Plaid.
Although every member of the squad has played a part 
in the winning season this year, we believe that four grid­
ders have provided the added spark that gave the team seven 
victories out of eight starts. These include captain and half­
back Nick Simcic, fullback Arne Oberg, guard Floyd Wise­
man, and end Lou Fougere. To pick the best of these four 
is no easy task.
Simcic has been the chief running threat in the razzle- 
dazzle Tartan offense and is a good passer. Oberg has given 
the Skibos a real threat up the middle and on runs to the 
weak side, and has proven to be equally as good as a de­
fensive halfback. Wiseman ranks as one of the best linemen 
ever to wear the Plaid, being an excellent blocker and an 
even better defensive line-backer. Fougere has been out­
standing as a pass-catching end, as well as a fine blocker, and 
as a defensive player.
With all four of these gridders displaying outstanding ath­
letic ability, the best one must be selected on the basis of lead­
ership and value to his team. In our opinion, Floyd Wiseman 
ranks as the foremost Tartan gridder in this respect. Wiseman 
has demonstrated leadership not by telling but rather by show­
ing his teammates how the game should be played. Those of you 
who have watched him throw a block or sift through the inter­
ference to make a tackle have seen the job done correctly. When 
the “chips were down,” it was Wiseman who was there most of 
the time to stop the opposing ball-carrier short of a first down 
or make the crucial block. A team player in every respect, Wise­
man deserves the award as outstanding player of the year.
Philip Morris challenges
any other leading brand 
to suggest this test
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF 
SMOKERS, who tried this test, 
report in signed statements that ^¡|| 
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER»
1. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS JL... Light up your present brand
Just take a puff—DON'T INHALE—and Do exactly the same thing—DON'T
s-|-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting?
your nose. Easy, isn’t it? And NOW... Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. 
Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . • • 
Philip Morris is, indeed, America’s FINEST Cigarette!
Student Lounge of Acquino* Holt 
Providence Collega 
Providence, R. /.
CIGARETTEMeeting the gang to discuss a quiz 
—or just killing time between 
classes — the Student Lounge of 
Acquinas Hall at Providence Col­
lege is one of the favorite places for 
a rendezvous. At the Student 
Lounge, as in college campus 
haunts everywhere, a frosty bottle 
of Coca-Cola is always on hand for 
the pause that refreshes—Coke
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
Ask for it either way . . . both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.M * Pius U ” State Tax
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COIA COMPANY IY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
_________________________________________ O 1950, TH* Coco-Coo Compony

---------------------------------------------------

Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests 
Number 7...THE RAVEN
my name... out 
don't quoth me!
Page 6TAWA1VTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950
INQUIRING REPORTER
Student Views Differ 
On Quality Of iScot9
¦Vfttybe the old Scottie has not breathed “the last sigh” after all. 
With the first edition of the Scot this year, a regression to the style 
followed by the former humor campus magazine is apparent. How­
ever. the humor of the new Scot is milder than that of the Scottie.
What do the students think of this^ 
year's Scot?
Charlotte McKay, Sophomore: 
“I like this Scot better than last 
year’s. That 
short story 
could have been 
better though. 
Last year’s Scot 
was more at- 
t r a c t i ve; the 
smaller size 
is better. Jim 
Aleman}’ is a 
good editor. 
The Scot now 
look; like a typical college humor 
magazine. It should have more 
jokes and cartoons, especially 
jokes."
Clan To Hold 
Twirp Dance, 
November 22
Jack Cook, junior: “Since my
best friend is managing editor, 
my opinion may be biased. But, 
the stories need
ment: they are 
lousy. Better
editorial work -
should be done.
The jokes are 
good. More A
p h o t o g raphy $
would be help- Ip ? ^
ful. Other than IF ' 
that, I think P *m>-
the Scot is pretty fair. I like the 
new size; it isc a great improve­
ment over last year. The art work 
is better this year.”
Joanne O’Keefe, sophomore: “I 
do not think the Scot has enough 
about w7hat the 
kids are inter­
ested in. Most 
students just 
look for the 
jokes and arti­
cles like the 
Cordic article; 
otherwise they 
skip over the 
other stuff. I 
think that this 
Scot is better than last year’s. It 
is larger and what there is of it 
seems to appeal to students.”
Dick Roman, sophomore: “I
bought the Scot, but didn’t get 
much of a chance to read it. The 
Scot this year ^
cm- think
humorous, the wk
type that should appear in college 
humor magazines. However, others 
are rather dull and lack humor. 
But, I still feel that the articles 
shoiild be made funnier and. if 
possible, the book should tend to­
ward what the Scottie used to be.”
Pete West, junior: “I think
there are too many stories in the 
Scot. I’d like to see more art work 
like Macbeth’s work in the past 
issues. I’d like 
to see it read 
out of a gar­
bage can. The 
work last year’s 
Scot did with 
the I D cards 
was excellent 
and this staff 
should continue 
with something 
along a similar 
line. I think I like the old size 
better; the small size looked bet­
ter, more compact. This maga­
zine is a drastic change from the 
Scottie and that might be one of 
the reasons that they are having 
trouble. I think the staff will be 
able to work out the difficulties 
they have encountered, and the
of the... ......
The annual Twirp (the-woman- 
is-requested-to-pay) dance spon- 
i so,red by Citcom Clan will be held 
on Wednesday, Nov. 22. This year 
I the dance will be held,.in Tristle
! Hall from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Thereiwill be entertainment and music 
for dancing by the Mela-Diers, 
refreshments will be served in the 
Black Cat Lounge.
Tickets may be purchased at 
the table in Skibo or at the door 
the evening of the dance. The 
price is $1.50 per couple. Accepted 
dress is casual and informal.
Drama Dept. 
To Present New 
Play On Dee. 6
“The Pillars of Society” by 
Henrik Ibsen will open on De­
cember 6 in Carnegie’s Little 
I Theatre. The play, which will be 
| under the direction of Lawrence 
| Carra, is based on a social theme 
| which is as, timely today as it 
| was when the play was written.
| In the C.I.T. production, Mr. 
Bernick is played by Phil Flad. 
Other leading roles include Jane 
Harris as Lona, Gerald Stovin as 
Hilmar, Thomas Bru Baker as 
Rorland, and Yale Wexler as 
Johan.
Student tickets will be distrib­
uted in the drama office Decem­
ber 5 at 11:30 a.m.
String Orchestra To Present 
Concert At Hillside High School
The string orchestra of the Car­
negie music department will pre­
sent a concert at the Hillside High 
School in Dormont on Tuesday, 
November 28, at 8:30 p.m.
G o s t a Andreasson, associate 
professor of Violin and Chamber 
Music at Carnegie, will conduct.
The program will open' with 
“Chaconne in G Minor” by Henry 
Purcell, followed by “Branden­
burg Concerto No. 2 in F Major” 
by J. S. Bach, featuring Irvin 
Kertman, violin; Aldo Di Ianni, 
flute; Sterling Yates, oboe; and 
David Boehmer, trumpet.
This will be followed by “Ser- 
enata Notturna, K. 239” by W. A. 
Mozart, featuring Irvin Kertman, 
violin; Sonia Faigen, violin; Rich­
ard Hishman, viola; Lawrence
Slaugh, bass; and Jean Mueller, 
timpany.
After intermission, the program * 
will include “Suite in D Major” 
by Clyde Thompson, and a violon­
cello solo by Thea Braider of 
“Serenade, Op. 69” by Robert 
Volkman. The program will con­
clude with “Prelude and Fugue, 
Op. 85” by M. Moszkowski.
Professor Andreasson, conduc­
tor of the concert, was torn in 
Goteborg, Sweden, and was a 
member of the Busch-Quartet un­
til 1943. From 1922 to 1933, he 
was also head of the violin de­
partment at the “Akademie fur 
Tonkunst” in Darmstadt, Ger­
many. He came to the United 
States with the Busch-Quartet in 
1940, and joined the Carnegie 
faculty in 1942.
WRCT Announces 
Program Schedule 
For Coming Week
Broadcasts from the studios of 
i WRCT may now be enjoyed in all 
I the men’s dorms as well as More- 
wood Gardens at 670 on the dial. 
Tonight’s program will be the last 
until classes resume after Thanks­
giving vacation on November 26.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21 
8:09—Harry James Show I 8:15—Its the Tops 
| 8:30—Sammy Kaye Show8:45—Guest Star 9:0«—Inquiring Reporter 9:15—Stars on Parade 9:30—Disc Jockey (Jim Gardner)
10:00—Campus News 
10:05—The Classical Hour
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27 
8:00—Teeh Varieties (The Snake Pit) 
9:00—Jaz Jamboree at CIT 
9:30—Leave it to the Girls 
10:00—Campus News 
10:05—The Classical Hour
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28 
8:00—Harry James Show 
8:15—Its the Tops _
8:30—Sammy Kaye Show
8:45—Guest Star
9:00—Inquiring Reporter
9:15—Stars on Parade
9:30—Disc Jockey <Jim Gardner)
10:00—Campus News 
10:05—The Classical Hour
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29 
8:00—Latin Tempos 
8:30—Tommy Dorsey Show 
8:45—Navy Star Time 
9:00—Twenty Questions 
9:30—Disc Jockey (Jay Claster)
10:00—Campus News 
10:05—The Classical Hour
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER SO 
8:00—Broadway Show Time 
8:30—Star *( the Week 
8:45—Sports Roundup 
9:00—Proudly We Hail 
9:30—Disc Jockey (John Higginbotham) 
10:00—Campus News 
10:05—The Classical Hour
MONDAY, DECEMBER 4 
8:00—Tech Varieties (The Snake Pit) 
9:00—Jaz Jamboree at CIT 
9:30—Leave it to the Girls 
10:00—Campus News 
10:05—The Classical Hour
Let’s go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
| l i 1 I I 4 »WWf
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland 
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
lobody’s pulling the feathers over this bird’s eyes!
He’s spent too many semesters in Psychology I. He knows — 
as any smart smoker knows — that you can’t make up 
your mind about cigarette mildness on one fast puff or a quick sniff.
A one-inhale comparison certainly doesn’t give you much proof to go on. 
That’s why we suggest:
The Sensible Test . . • The 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, which 
simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke — on a pack 
after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments needed.
After you’ve enjoyed Camels — and only Camels — 
for 30 days in your “T-Zone ’ (T for Throat, T for Taste) 
we believe you’ll know why ...
More People Smoke Camels
than any other cigarette!
» »

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950TÂWANPage 7
Portables 
Standard Office Machines 
Wide Carriage Machines 
Rates as low as*4.00 per month
3 Mos. $10.00
FIRST RENTAL APPLIES 
TO PURCHASE PRICE
Fort Pitt 
Typewriter Co.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT. 1-8320
CÂHNEGI./)
// JV/iiA't\ |/
1
/ w
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.—----<-------------------------------------i---------—____ . ____________________
Editorial—
Let’s Be Thankful
Although it has been many hundred years ago since the original 
Thanksgiving day was held, its purpose becomes more significant 
with the passing time. It was conceived by a people whose every 
day was a challenge to existence, and who justified their lot by hard 
work in a country free of rabbled Old World thoughts. They simply 
and sincerely wanted to thank their kind Providence for the possi­
bility of providing their families and friends with the necessities for 
simple happiness.
Perhaps there will be those who may read this and who will 
not wholeheartedly agree that we at Evening School too have much 
to be thankful for.
Firstly, we should be thankful for the opportunity of meeting 
and making friends with other students, who appreciate us and stand 
ready to help us over the rough spots.
We should be thankful for the fine instructors at Evening School. 
Most of them spend their day hours working hard obtaining a live­
lihood, yet are interested enough in the welfare of others to devote 
long hours teaching and passing on the benefits of their knowledge.
We should be thankful that there are those among us who sac­
rifice additional time and effort so that others may have social rec­
reation on the Evening School campus.
Thus, when we give thanks, let us not forget that even though 
the work is hard, we are still fortunate for the opportunity of being 
able to work for some thing we earnestly desire, an education.
Night School Sponsors 
Thanksgiving Dance
A most enjoyable evening of dancing is in store for all who 
attend the annual Thanksgiving dance, sponsored by Evening Stu­
dent Council, to be held in Thistle hall, rear of Gymnasium build­
ing, on Saturday evening, November 25, from 9:00 until 12:00.
-------------------------------------------------—? The music will be furnished by
~w • tf 1 1 ! the fine orchestra of Bill LeRoy,Flu (Tams Held 
Annual Tea At 
Carnegie Union
more popularly known about town 
as the “Bana in Demand.” Bill 
LeRoy and his orchestra have a 
fine selection of music to meet 
every taste, and they have prom- 
The annual tea, sponsored by jge(j honor requests.
the Evening Student Council and 
Phi Gamma Pi Sorority took 
place on Sunday, November 19, 
1950, at Carnegie Union.
Mrs. Goodfellow, an English in­
structress ^t Tech, was the prin­
cipal speaker for the afternoon. 
Her topic was “Romantic Britain.” 
The enthusiastic response was
The vocal efforts of Jimmy 
Glenn will be a feature calculated 
to stir the feminine hearts. This 
popular orchestra has played 
many engagements on the Car­
negie campus and has been pleas­
ing to the taste each time.
As usual, the Black Cat, capa-
This tea is sponsored annually 
by Evening Student Council so 
that the new girl students enter­
ing Carnegie will get to know the 
purpose of Council and to better 
know its function on evening 
school campus.
swik*
I V. »
fjtxjvefS’ 1
Enjoy your cigarette! Enjoy truly -fine tola«*) 
that combines kotb perfect mildness and ncf» , 
taste in one great cigarette - Lucky Strike!
Perfect mildness? You bet. Scientific tests, 
confirmed by three independent consulting 
laboratories, prove that Lucky Strike is milder 
than any other principal brand. Rich taste? 
Yes, the full, rich taste of truly fine tobacco.
Only fine tobacco gives you both real mildness 
rich taste. And Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. So enjoy the happy blending that com­
bines perfect mildness with a rich, true tobacco 
taste. Be Happy—Go Lucky!
George Bogovich
Advises Student Council
due to the fact that the girls of bly operated by Will Schnarren- 
Phi Gamma Pi sent invitations to ! berger, will be ready to serve you 
each and everyone of the new refreshments, and the lounge, just evening girl students at CarnegieTech opposite the Black Cat, will be
1 open to provide relaxation for 
tired dancers.
The cost of the dance will be 
$2.25 per couple, including tax. 
Tickets may be secured from Mr. 
McKelway in IH 132, from coun­
cil members, or at the door.
SC Advisor 
Characterized
Bogovich Well Suited 
To Council Assignment
George Bogovich, present stu­
dent advisor to Evening Stu <ent 
Council, is well qualified for his 
council duties. George previously 
has been Evening Student Council 
social chairman associate editor 
| of the Plaid, co-chairman ot the 
; Engineers’ banquet, and president 
| of Council during the school year,
11948-1949. This is his second year 
| as Council advisor.
George works for the Westing- 
house Electric and Manufacturing 
Company in East Pittsburgh and 
is classified as a switchgear and 
control equipment tester.
I George is a graduate of Turtle 
Creek Union High School and the 
Westinghouse Technical Night 
I School. George entered Carnegie 
• Tech Night School in 1940. and 
| since then has been working to- 
I wards obtaining a degree in Elec- 
j trical Engineering.
George is happily married and 
is the proud papa of Linda (Rusty) 
age one.
His wife, Irene, is a familiar 
participant at evening school func­
tions. Although Irene is not en­
rolled in evening school, she as­
sists George in many of his school 
activities.
George augments his studies 
and extra-curricular activities 
with a few hobbies, the major one 
being photography. He also is an 
ardent stamp collector. His spare 
time is devoted to raising chickens.
George is a member of Sigma 
Delta Phi, evening school social 
fraternity, Nu Sigma Alpha, ac­
tivities honorary, and Phi Omega, 
the Westinghouse Technical Night 
School fraternity. Recently he has 
been called by Pi Delta Epsilon, 
the national journalistic honorary.
RENT
a typewriter
and keep up 
with vour work
I.S./M FT-lucty Strike 
Means Fine lôbâcco
(«ni.. tMt «MIRICA» TO»*CCO CO»P»»V

---------------------------------------------------

SMELL ’EM
within walking distance of everything worthwhile
4415 Fifth Avenu«, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
). F. -Dunlay, Res. Mgr.
LEAPING SELLER 
IMI AMERICA’S 
s COLLEGES
ili
LOOK over Hotel Webster Hall's PLAN a convenient, comfortable
many facilities for dances and weekend visit for your parents. {j
dinners. See the new Georgian Make reservations for them in
Room and Boot & Saddle Lounge. advance at Hotel Webster Hall.
RODGERS
DAIRY
TRY OUR
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
R ODGERS
Dairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet 
4619 CENTER AYENUE 
Near Craig 
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
Other stores downtown
PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN 
ON CAMPUSLOUISE SANFORD
AUBURN ’51
Tart nGt nidaeei sCiotCm 
TplBSc11 9c19 38D.1clkuuu
TOBACCOS THAT SMELL MILDER SMOKE MILDER"
YES... Compare Chesterfield with the brand you’ve been 
smoking... Open a pack ... smell that milder Chesterfield 
aroma. Prove — tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. 
Now smoke Chesterfields—they do smoke milder, 
and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE.
It il I lei i h Board
Page 8
Sigma Xi Society Presents 
Lecture On Atomic Bomb
The Society of the Sigma Xi 
will present A. Amirikian, head 
designing engineer, Navy Bureau 
of Yards and Docks, in a lecture 
entitled “Can We Provide Safety 
Against the Atomic Bomb?” No­
vember 29 at 8:00 p.m. jn MM 
103.
Pittsburgh Woodwind Group 
To Give Concert Dec. 3
On December 3rd, the Alpha 
Mu Chapter of Sigma Alpha Iota 
will sponsor a concert by the 
Pittsburgh Woodwind Ensemble, 
the members of which belong to 
the Pittsburgh Sympnony. Ad­
mission is free for the concert, 
which will begin at 8:30 p.m. in 
the Exhibition Room of Fine Arts.
Men's Music Honorary 
Presents Recital Nov. 30
Phi Mu Alpha, the men’s na­
tional music honorary, will pre­
sent their pledge recital on No­
vember 30, in the Fine Arts Ex­
hibition Room at 8:30. No tickets 
are required for admission.
The purpose of this fraternity 
is to further the appreciation of 
American music. Every month 
Phi Mu Alpha sponsors lectures 
and recitals on campus.
Newman Club Winter Party 
At North Park, Friday, Dec. 1
The Rose Barn, North Park, will 
be the scene of the Newman Club’s 
Winter Party on Friday evening, 
December 1, from 8 to 12 p.m.
Those anxious to attend should 
sign the list in Skibo as soon as
possible. Transportation will be
arranged for those who sign up
promptly.
Featured at this blue-jean party 
will be a marshmallow roast,
singing, games, and dancing.
The affair is not a closed one 
and member’s friends are quite 
welcome. Admission for non-mem" 
bers will be 35 cents.
CIT Rifle And Pistol Club 
To Hold Meeting Nov. 29
Results of the recent election 
held by the Carnegie Tech Rifle 
and Pistol club are Alan 
Blotcky, president; Harry Oster- 
man, vice-president; Ruth Golden, 
secretary.
A special meeting of the Rifle 
and Pistol club will be held at 
the range November 29 at 4:30.
Unless otherwise posted, the 
pistol club will meet at the range 
at 8:00 p.m. Fridays.
The schedule of hours for 
shooting is posted at the range.
TA4WAN
Report On Europe, Asia; 
PCW Little Theatre Nov. 28
“Report On Europe and Asia,” 
will be given by Dr. Paul R. An­
derson, President of PCW, and 
William Block, Publisher of the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette on Nov. 
28, 8:20 p. m., in the Little The­
atre, Pennsylvania College for 
Women. Both men have traveled 
in Europe and Asia during the 
summer. Admission is free.1
____________________________TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1950
Patronize Our Advertisers
