VOL. 45—No. 3TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951
Enrollment Drop Everywhere 
But Industrial Administration
In line with pre-registration 
at CIT in regular day classes has 
year’s. The drop, however, was 
the total enrollment for last year 
2876, a four percent decrease.
The only college that had an in­
crease in registration was the 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion. The following figures prove 
that all the rest decreased.
Year 1950 1951
E&S ......................1468 1383
H&SS ................. 270 236
IA......... ...................... 23
FA ..........................663
MM ........................555
Library ........................ 47
speculation the total enrollment 
decreased in comparison with last 
not as great as expected. Where 
was 3026, the figure this year is
42
639
545
31
3026 2876
The marked decrease in fresh­
men women in Margaret Morri­
son may be due to more marriages 
or’possibly better jobs for high 
School graduates. One hundred 
seven registered this year com­
pared to 133 last year. There are 
similar unusual decreases in the 
library school from 47 to 31 and 
in the number of vets, 1245 to 950.
Of the 75 foreign students reg­
istered, 29 countries are represent­
ed, with the largest delegations 
from Canada and China.
Sophomores 
Policing Frosh
Must Attend Games 
And All Pep Rallies
Freshmen regulations are being 
strictuly enforced by Cwens, Scim­
itars, and the sophomore class of­
ficers, council, and members. All 
freshmen are required to wear 
dinks whenever they are not in 
their rooms, except on Friday, 
and Saturday night, Sunday, and 
in town.
They are also required to at­
tend pep rallies and all home 
gameâ. To be admitted to the tra­
ditions exam they must present 
their registration cards which 
have been punched for attendance 
at football games.
For every misdemeanor five 
points will be deducted from the 
Traditions Exam. A passing grade 
of 70% will enable freshmen to 
participate in extracurricular ac­
tivities. Those who do not pass the 
test will have their names pub­
lished in the Tartan and sent to 
all activities.
Oxford Here 
For Debate 
On Oct. 18
Oxford University will come to 
Carnegie on October 18 to open 
its series of 30 debates with Amer­
ican college teams. The topic is, 
“Resolved: That any attempt to 
outlaw the Communist party en­
dangers the liberty it is designed 
to protect.”
The Oxford team will support the resolution, and Ronald Curhan 
and Jay Claster will oppose it for 
Carnegie. The contest will be held 
in MM 103 at 11:30 a.m. Anyone interested may attend.
New Drama 
Director Here 
For One Year
Charles Newman, formerly of 
San Diego, California, has been 
appointed visiting director in the 
drama department for this school 
year.
Mr. Newman has had wide ex 
perience in the field of drama. He 
is the head of the drama depart­
ment at San Diego Junior College, 
and for the past two years he 
was director of the civic light op­
era in San Diego. For a time, Mr. 
Newman worked in New York in 
the fields of radio and television 
where he was associated with 
Jane Cowl, Tallulah Bankhead, 
and Blanch Yurka.
The new director received his 
B.A. and M.A. from the University 
of Southern California where he 
majored in speech and drama. 
During the war, he served with 
Naval Intelligence and was sta­
tioned in London. While here, he 
worked with a Special Service 
Unit, staging shows in La Scala 
Opera House.
Senior Rings
Any senior who is interested 
in obtaining a class ring may 
place his order in the Alumni 
office, AH 239.
Pep Rally!
In preparation for the first 
football game of the year, a 
pep-rally will be held on Fri­
day, September 28, at 7:30 
p.m. in the Tech Bowl.
The Kiltie Bagpipers, the 
cheerleaders, and the DU band 
will lead the parade to the 
rally which will give the team 
a send-off to the California 
State Teacher’s game. Form­
ing in front of FA, the parade 
will pass the men’s dorms and 
Morewood Gardens to pick up 
the men and women dorm 
residents.
All freshmen are required to 
attend this rally and upper­
classmen are urged to take 
part—get the season off to a 
good start!
Student Council, sponsor of 
the affair, has obtained a PA 
system from the ROTC de­
partment for use at the rally.
Student Council 
Sponsors Drive 
For Blood Donors
Student Council at its first 
meeting of the year voted to spon­
sor a blood donation campaign. 
Sparkplugging the idea, Council 
members agreed unanimously to 
be among the first to donate their 
blood.
The American Red Cross will 
send a portable bloodmobile to 
Carnegie’s campus if the drive 
succeeds in raising 150 pledges. 
The cause is a very worthy and 
needy one, for the blood will be 
sent directly to the Korean bat- 
tlefront or to veteran’s hospitals.
Suggestion boxes for student 
comments, suggestions or critic­
isms on any of Councils projects 
will once again be placed around 
campus.
3.
Technical Sponsors $50 Contest 
To Encourage Science Writers
Articles On Highway Interchanges, Computers, 
And Non-Euclidian Geometry In First Issue
Highlighting the September issue of the Carnegie Technical will 
be an article by Robert Leffier of the civil department describing 
the various types of highway interchanges.
Other articles include a discussion of mathematical computers 
by Dr. Harder of Westinghouse as4 
well as an article on non Euclidian 
geometry by Phil Mitchell, last 
year’s editor of the Technical.
In his article “An Approach to 
the Teletypesetter Problem,” John 
Reamey presents some of the me­
chanical and economic problems 
that are being encountered with 
the introduction of the Teletype­
setter.
$50 Contest
Agaip this year as in the past 
the Technical is offering a $50 
award to the author of the article 
judged most outstanding among 
those submitted for publication 
during the current school year.
Th£ contest is to encourage great­
er professional interest among un­
dergraduate students and to fur­
ther the development of ability in 
technical writing.
Rules governing the contest are:
1. The contest is open to all reg­
istered students at the Car­
negie Institute of Technology 
in the undergraduate status.
Articles may cover any topic2.
6.
related to engineering or sci­
ence, and may be based on 
original research, experience, 
gained through employment, or 
library research.
Articles submitted should be 
approximately 2,000 to 3,000 
words in length. Pertinent 
illustrations or photographs 
should be included.
Articles must be submitted in 
typewritten form, double­
spaced on 8%xll paper. Ar­
ticles must be received by 
March 1 in order to be eligible 
for the 1951-52 contest.
The Carnegie Technical re­
serves the right to publish any 
article submitted. All partici­
pants are urged to submit their 
articles as soon as possible in 
order that they may be con­
sidered for early publication. 
Judges will consist of the ex­
ecutive board of the Technical 
and a member of the faculty. 
Members of the editorial board 
are ineligible for the contest.
[Continued to Page 81
AH Offices Shuffled As School 
Suffers Face-Lifting Process
Physics Dept. To Get Ground-Level Entrance; 
New IA Building Progresses On Schedule
During the summer, a rehabilitation program was undertaken 
by Carnegie with the purpose of modernizing various parts of the 
school buildings. Though the project is not yet completed, some 
of the results have become confusing to students and visitors 
alike. ?-----------------------------------------------------
In Administration Hall, the 
project was aimed both at mod­
ernization and at relief of much 
of the overcrowding which had 
occurred in several offices. Many 
temporary changes have been 
made in the location of offices 
which students have occasion to 
visit.
Offices Move
The offices of both the day and 
evening school registrars have 
been moved to A.H. 162-168. Stu­
dent Personnel and Welfare and 
the Assistant Dean of Students 
(Women) can be found in A.H. 
132 A, B, C. The Cashier’s office 
is now located in A.H. 155A. Ad­
missions’ office is temporarily in 
A.H. 144-A. Information and ap­
plications for housing can now be 
obtained in the Dean of Men’s of­
fice. However, this office will be 
relocated within the next few 
months while repairs are being 
made on this part of Administra­
tion Hall.
In Engineering Hall, most of 
the work centers around the con­
struction of the new entrance 
which will open on “Senior 
Walk.” An old lecture room, 113, 
has been removed and the space 
used to provide a more convenient 
entrance to the building. New of­
fices being constructed for the 
physics and metallurgy depart­
ments will be situated on either 
side of the new entrance. The en­
tire coal research laboratory has
Group Plans 
Programs 
For Chapels
The first Chapel Service of this 
year will be held in the Little 
Theatre on Tuesday, October 9 at 
11:30 a.m. These services have 
for 30 years been an integral part 
of the spiritual life on the Car­
negie campus.
The Chapel committee, headed 
by Mr. Rollin Davis, YMCA sec­
retary, and composed of repre­
sentatives from the Scimitar, Glee 
Clubs, and various student relig­
ious groups has outlined this 
year’s program.
The services, which will be held 
every other week during student 
assembly periods, will consist of 
a talk given by prominent speak­
ers, hymns, prayers, and a num­
ber by the Glee Club. The speak­
er for the first service will be an­
nounced in the next issue.
All students, Protestant, Catho- 
olic, and Jewish are invited to at­
tend.
been moved to Forbes street, next 
to the Faculty club.
New Lighting
Machinery Hall was the re­
cipient of a new interior coat of 
paint during vacation, while the 
practice house of the home eco- 
| nomics department was remod­
eled. Improvements in the light­
ing of the Fine Arts building were 
also made. In particular, the de­
partment of architecture received 
the latest in modern lighting in 
all its rooms.
Because of the lack of space, 
many of the present locations of 
offices are only temporary. The 
work, however, is nearing com­
pletion, and the end of the con­
fusion is in sight.
Classes Soon
In spite of construction difficul­
ties and the scarcity of building 
materials, work on the new IA 
building is proceeding according 
to schedule. Masonary work on 
the exterior of the building is ex­
pected to be completed by the 
time cold weather sets in. Dur­
ing the winter,work will be done 
on the interior of the building.
Present plans call for comple­
tion of the building to such an 
extent that the first classes in it 
can be held next semester. It is 
hoped that the entire project will 
be finished in time for the open­
ing of the ’52-’53 school term. 
Some of the equipment which will 
I be used in the classrooms and lec­
ture halls has already arrived and 
has been stored pending its in­
stallation.
Queen Contest
All freshmen women must 
be present today, September 
25, in the recreation hall of 
Margaret Morrison at 4:30 p.m. 
to nominate candidates for 
Carnegie Tech’s Homecoming 
Queen. These freshmen queen 
nominees will be selected from 
among those attending the 
meeting. Cwens will be in 
charge of the proceedings.
Displays
All groups interested in 
participating in the 1951 
Homecoming Decorations Con­
test must send a representa­
tive to the Carnegie Union at 
4:30 on Wednesday, Septem­
ber 26.
Donald J. Schumacher 
Chairman, Homecoming 
Decorations Contest
George Camp Named 
Glee Club Director
A new director, Mr. George Camp, has been appointed for the 
combined Glee Club. Mr. Camp is at present the instrumental director 
of the Wilkinsburg public school system and also the choir director of 
the Trinity Lutheran Church in Mt. Oliver. A graduate in music 
Education from Bethany College,?-----------—--------------------------------------Ihe did his graduate work at Car- take advantage of the Ford 
negie Tech. Foundation Fellowship which she
Large Turnout 1 ^as received for the school year of
~ 1 nn * ^ * * ii ’51-’52. At the close of last yearOver 100 students from all „ > * , , •Mr. Brautigam resigned his po-classes and department were pres- sition as Glee Club director Voiceent at the first meeting of the new 
combined Glee Club on Thursday. 
September 20. This group com­
bines the women’s and men’s Glee 
Clubs formerly directed by Miss 
Carolyn Kennedy and Mr. Paul 
Brautigam, respectively.
Miss Kennedy is taking a year’s 
leave of absence from the music 
department of Carnegie Tech to i
classifications were held 
and today. Rehearsals ' 
this Thursday at 4:30 
MMCC 103; they are to b
wonca
w<e same time 
Many Plans
1CS J

---------------------------------------------------

2TAWAl^TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951 ^
(l)
(3)
(3)
(4)
These principles of the Carnegie Plan are meant as a 
guide to the Class of '55—and to those members of other 
classes who have lost sight of the reasons why more and 
more courses are taught without a textbook.
Several years ago, the late Dr. Doherty set down the 
following principles of instruction for a new plan of pro­
fessional education—the Carnegie Plan:
Thorough and integrated understanding of fundamental 
knowledge in the fields covered by the student’s cur­
riculum, and the ability to use this knowledge.
Genuine competence in the orderly way of analytical 
thinking which professional men and scientists have 
always used in reaching sound, creative conclusions; to 
the end that after graduation the student can, by such 
thinking, reach his own decisions in his profession and 
as a citizen.
Ability to learn for himself with scholarly orderliness; 
so that after graduation he will be able to grow in 
wisdom and keep abreast of the changing knowledge 
and problems of his profession and the society in which 
he lives.
The philosophical outlook, breadth of knowledge, and 
sense of values which will increase his understanding 
and enjoyment of life and will enable him to recog­
nize the human, economic, and social problems of his 
professional work; and the breadth of ability to use 
his professional powers in dealing with these prob­
lems and those which he will meet as a citizen and a 
person.
Four phrases stand out in the above—fundamental knowl­
edge, analytical thinking, breadth of ability, and scholarly 
style. These are the qualities that lift the professional man 
above the technician. Carnegie’s technological program teach­
es these qualities through the application of fundamentals 
to the problems of engineering, while the social relations pro­
gram helps develop them by teaching clarity of expression 
and understanding of social and economic forces.
Another of the important functions of education is to 
teach the fundamentals of relations with other people—both 
with those of similar interests and those of widely differing 
bad grounds and ideas. An individual can never be a real 
success if he fails in his everyday contacts with his fellow 
workers and his superiors. The Carnegie Plan recognizes 
these abilities as some of the most important to be gained 
from higher education; the fundamentals of personnel rela­
tions and evaluation are included in many of the courses 
offered throughout the colleges.
As illustrated at right, the Carnegie Plan gives a man the 
ability to make the keys that unlock the problems of his pro­
fessional carer. In these days of specialization and competition a 
degree is not a guarantee of success—a degree is only a pass­
port good for some short period while we learn the techniques 
of the particular job. And the intangible factors of particular 
problems, incapable considerations—these must be treated with 
the same throughness of thought that the individual applies to 
a mathematical solution.
The goals of the Carnegie Plan may often be obscured 
by seeming inconsistancies of teaching method and subject 
matter, but such obstacles are to be expected in a program 
which attempts to teach methodology and thought processes 
instead of facts and formulas. The complex problems of 
the real world have no simple solutions, but the Carnegie 
Plan offers the closest approach to an education which fits 
an individual to think and act for himself.
Assistant Dean of Students 
Celebrates First Anniversary
By Dolly Mitchell
Any dean of women is faced with a difficult job. She must gain 
students’ confidence, keep them happy, while at the same time dis­
ciplining and guiding them. Yet Carnegie’s dean has in one year 
fulfilled all these conditions. Her success as dean of women is due 
largely to her boundless enthusi-^
asm for the work.
Student organizations find Mrs. 
Schaefer a competent advisor. 
Her own college experience as a 
Cwen, Mortar Board, and Student 
Councilor has given the dean an 
understanding of and a sympa­
thetic interest in organizational 
problems.
Likes Work
Mrs. Schaefer smiles happily 
when she talks of her work. “I 
just love it and enjoy every phase 
of the work, particularly my work
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. TELEPHONE: 
SCnenley 1-4557 after hours MUseum 1-7017; for advertising and subscriptions. 
MUseum 1-4076, HAzel 1-5360. Published weekly, during the school year, except 
holidays a id examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ....................................... ....................................................... Lloyd W. Dyer, Jr.
Business Manager ....................................................................................................................... Clarence Smith
Mai.ajing Editor .......................................................................................................................... Fred Sonnenberg
V rsnnnrl Manager ................................................................................................. Richard Woods
New* Editor ......................................................................................... ...................... Nancy Sitler
oris Editor—Justin Davidson. Copy Editor*—Larry Giavin and Dick Durstine. 
I . attires Editor—Dick Alhstrom. Advertising Manager—Jerry Seiner. Assistant 
B-j>i ess Manager—Dave Goldsmith. Circulation Manager—Barry Innerfield. Pho­
tography Editor—Martin Snyderman. Assistant Sports Editor—Cal Smith. Proof 
I ilitor—John Tancill. Personnel Assistant—Paul Peoples. Chief Reporters—Shirlee 
P ¦ pgor, Jane Robb, Marilyn Sweeney, Joe Weidman Reporters—Estelle Her- 
lic!?. Ro-emary Serafim. Ann Parker. Jane Dowling, Bill Smith, Bob McQuaid, 
Jo: n Webb. Sport* Reporter*—Joan Cumerton, Larry Summerill, Cal Biesecker, 
Ji,,i McQune, Irv Schecter. Art Staff—Carroll Gantz. Ken Ferguson, Duane 
Qi.intal. Jerrv Weisman, Bill Gilmore. Make-up Staff—Bea Pollack, Ellroy Wild- 
haber, Dick Kendrick. Feature* Staff—Harvy Katz. Headline Staff—Vincent Ribas, 
Bill Mannel. Advertising Staff—Marilyn Seiner, Bruce Steinhart, Edward Clark. 
( iiealation Staff—Dick Guarino, Jay Levy. Typists—Joan Novack, Mildred Thomp­
son. Anita Makrauer.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative,. 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscrip­
tion SI. 10 per year.
entered as second class matter on October 4. ’907. at the Post Office at
Pitt burgh, Pa . under the Act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special
fcite o fpostage pro\ idcd or in the Act of February 28, 1925.
Member ol the Associated College Pres«.
Photo by Snyderman 
Mrs. W. A. Schaefer
Assistant Dean Of Students
with the organizations helping 
them plan activities.”
Another phase of her job that is 
particularly dear to Mrs. Schae­
fer’s heart is student counseling. 
To the students Mrs. Schaefer 
seems at times a mother or a sis­
ter and again a friend. This par­
ticular ability to win the con­
fidence and trust of the students 
accounts for the constant activity 
in her office. Mrs. Schaefer thinks 
that “there is a great deal involv­
ed in personal counseling. The 
students do come in often, some­
times by the throngs. I believe 
that counseling is worthwhile.” 
Thus the dean urges and encour­
ages students to come when they 
are worried or when they are 
happy to tell her about it.
And our brown-eyed dean holds 
a high opinion of Carnegie stu­
dents. She feels they have been
“excellent in their attitudes, most 
co-operative.” She enjoys working 
with them because “they arc very 
gracious to me personally and 
that makes my work especially 
pleasant.”
Aims of Department
Realizing fully the responsibili­
ties facing the personnel depart 
ment, Mrs. Schaefer spoke of the 
aim of the department. “We strive 
to improve the social relationships 
between students and faculty. It is 
important that a student develop 
into a socially gracious person as 
well as a professionally skilled 
one.”
Indeed Mrs. Schaefer is enthusi­
astic about her work and the stu­
dents. She speaks of the “intelli­
gent attitude they exhibit toward 
campus problems. It is good to 
work with them; they keep alert, 
and above all they are enthusias­
tic.”
“Our department especially 
tries to 'help the students make 
the most out of their four years at 
college.” With the help of such a 
dean of women as Mrs. Schaefer, 
the students will surely find a full 
and happy life.
Henry Scobell Died 
With Splendid Record
The men’s dorms at Carnegie 
Tech are all named for students or 
alumni who gave their lives in 
World War I. This is the first in 
a series of articles describing these 
men and how they served their 
country.
Sixty-five million men found 
themselves in uniform during 
World War I. Over half of these 
men suffered injury or death. 
Among those who failed to re­
turn with the American Expedi­
tionary Force was Henry John 
Scobell, in whose memory Sco- 
bell Hall was named.
Henry Scobell was born at Cape 
Vincent, in the state of New York. 
In September of 1914 he entered 
the Carnegie Tech School of 
Architecture and became active in 
many of the campus organizations, 
among which were the Sigma Nu 
fraternity, the Carnegie Archi­
tectural, and the Carnegie Tech 
Glee clubs. In his junior year he 
was elected secretary of his 
class. For three years he served as 
an editor of the Tartan.
Gallant Conduct
Not waiting for the draft, Henry 
Scobell enlisted in the army and 
earned a commission as a second 
lieutenant. In February of 1918 
he arrived in Brest, France, and 
served with the 103rd Infantry. 
During the second battle of the 
Marne he was cited for gallant 
conduct and devotion to duty un­
der heavy fire. Continuing his out­
standing fexploits, he was severely 
wounded while holding the line 
before the Argonne Drive. He died 
at the Base Hospital at Allery on 
November 15, 1918 from wounds 
and pneumonia caused by expo­
sure. He was in his twenty-second 
year when he died.
3-HOUR SERVICE 
On Dry Cleaning 
•
ROUGH DRY 
LAUNDRY
Washed and Dried 
•
SHIRTS
washed and finished
Ic A M P U S
CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.
Don’t forget to add CIT 
campus sportswear items 
to your wardrobe.
???
Come in and see the new 
Zipper Sweat Shirt!
CIT Book Store
Editorial—
The Carnegie PlanDorm Named 
For CIT Grad

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951TAMAN3
Drama Head 
Visits Norway
Boettchen One Of 3 
Americans At Congress
Henry Boettchen, new head of 
the Carnegie department of dra­
ma, was one of three American 
delegates to the International The­
ater Congress held this spring in 
Oslo, Norway. The purpose of this 
international gathering was to 
promote understanding, good-will, 
and exchange of ideas among the 
theaters of all nations.
The Norwegian theater pre­
sented a series of plays for the 
members of the congress. Two of 
the player s in the productions 
were former CIT students—Stig 
Egede and George Rich ten (Lud-
Scotch rn Soda
Anyone interested in writ­
ing or composing for the an­
nual Scotch ’n Soda show this 
year is requested to bring his 
ideas to the S’nS board meet­
ings on Tuesdays at 11:30 in 
FA 106. Ideas for a whole 
show or just one skit are wel­
come.
deckers). These men attended the 
drama department in 1935-1936 
and their names may still be 
found inscribed on the walls back­
stage.
The two . other American dele­
gates were Miss Rosmond Gilden, 
former editor of Theater Arts, and 
Mark Connelly, author of Green 
Pastures. All in all there were 94 
members at the conference from 
26 countries.
CIT Mourns Passing 
Of Canine Personality
With the passing last week of Tau Delta Phi’s mascot, Psirus, the 
campus lost one of its best known personalities and outstanding 
students.
Psirus was known to everyone 
for sooner or later, for a day or4 
longer, he was bound to be in 
class. His attendance record dar­
ed comparison, both to the variety 
of courses, and the years attend­
ed.
Body Cremated
After learning all summer by 
numerous methods that he wasn’t 
supposed to chase cars, Psi walk­
ed out of one car into another’s 
path last week and suffered in­
ternal injuries. He was rushed to 
a veterinarian and released sub­
sequently, but he still failed to 
survive. Even a New York vet 
was consulted.
who had a class with a Tau Delt,
Then you're better off 
smoking .The. nyoohu
...because .becea usiied is 
definitely jess irritating, 
definitely milder than any 
other leading brand!
PROVE IT YOURSELF
Take the 
PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST 
start enjoying PHILIP MORRIS todayf
NO CIGARETTE 
HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASUREI
~77rsrr^r"—s—-, .—rrrxrrrrz-------------  i
CALL 
I FORPHIUP MORRIS
His body was cremated, but the 
ashes have not been disposed of 
as yet. The school won’t let the 
Tau Delts put a monument on 
campus, since it isn’t even the 
policy for dead presidents.
Besides attending classes, Psi 
once almost passed a course. He 
was registered under the name of 
John Psi and attended a freshman 
English class, turning in themes 
(written by his fraternity broth­
ers) such as “Why I Like Trees. 
The hoax was discovered before 
mid-semester, but the instructor 
said Psi would have gotten a C.
Tricky Dog 
The Tau Delts new mascot is 
Psirus III, a half German, half 
Belgian Shepherd. He is already 
living under strict training rules 
such as: no bones or snacks, noth­
ing but regular meals and clean 
water; nothing with which to play 
or fetch; off first floor by 7:30; not 
to be played with after 9:30, and 
not to be punished by anyone but 
the dog committee.
He also has a “Trick of the 
Week.” This week he learned to 
sit and lie down.
May Beegle 
Concerts Soon
La Traviata, Ballet 
To Highlight Season
Tickets are now on sale at spe­
cial student rates for the 29th 
season of the May Beegle concert 
series. The 1951-52 program opens 
at the Syria Mosque on October 
13 with Verdi’s opera “La Travi­
ata.”
Comprising six events, the series 
also includes Patrice Munsel on 
Nov. 13; Jascha Heifetz, supreme 
violinist, on Feb. 16; Robert Casa- 
desus, the great pianist, on Feb. 
29; Sadler’s Wells Ballet on March 
3; and the Robert Shaw Chorale on 
March 24.
Student tickets range in price 
from $3.90 to $8.97, including 
taxes for the concerts. The student 
sale is now open from 9:30 a.m. to 
5:00 p.m. at the May Beegle of­
fices, 551-52 Union Trust Bldg. 
Students must show their student 
identification cards.
Technical
The Carnegie Technical 
needs staff workers to help 
publish the college magazine 
for the coming year. Especial­
ly needed are advertising per­
sonnel. Wanted also are re­
porters, feature writers, and 
layout artists.
1.8 Factor Necessary 
For Sorority Rushing
Formal rushing for sororities began with the Panhellenic Open- 
house last Saturday and will continue until October 16.
To be eligible for rushing one must have made a factor of at 
least 1.8 for the semester immediately preceding her pledging and
at the time of being rushed must^ 
be carrying a day schedule of at 
least 36 units in a degree course 
at Carnegie. Juniors and seniors, 
other than transferees, are eligible 
to attend formal rushing functions 
provided they meet all require­
ments.
Obtain Ballet
Each rushee must obtain a bal­
lot from the Dean of Women’s 
office on which she will list her 
preferences. It must be filed in 
the office by 10:30 a.m. Monday, 
October 15. Anyone who does not 
submit her ballot of preference on
R. O. T. C.
There are a few vacan­
cies in the Advanced 
Course, Reserve Officers 
Training Corps, Carne­
gie Tech. You may qual­
ify if you are a veteran 
or have had R.O.T.C. in 
college. See Warrant Of­
ficer Pacek in Room 242- 
B, Administration Hall, 
for further information.
time will not be accepted until 
the next rushing season unless 
otherwise indicated to the Dean 
of Women.
Rushees may pick up their in­
vitations afte.* 10:30 a.m., Tues­
day, October 16, and must answer 
with written acceptance or regret 
by 4:30 p.m that same day. Any 
girl who fails to file a ballot on 
time or pick up her bid on time 
will be considered ineligible to 
join a sorority until the next for­
mal rushing period. She shall be 
eligible for informal rushing, 
however.
Any girl who fails to make a 
reply on time will be considered 
ineligible to join a sorority for 
one rushing season.
Meets Requirements 
If a girl does not receive a bid 
from any of the sororities listed 
on her preferential ballot, she is 
eligible at any future time to be 
rushed informally, provided she 
meets all eligibility requirements 
at that time 
A rushee shall not, under any 
circumstances, expect or accept 
a bid to a sorority before 10:30 
a.m., October 10, nor shall a 
sorority make any commitments to 
a rushee.
Silence period will begin Sun­
day, October 14, at 10:30 p.m., 
and ends at 5:00 p.m., October 16. 
This period of silence will be 
maintained by all actives, pledges 
not yet initiated, and rushees.
Save Up To 50%—Purchase Student Tickets
MAY BEEGLE CONCERTS
DELUXE SERIES —SEASON 1951-52 — SYRIA MOSQUE
SAT. EVE., OCT. 13
OPERA "LA TRAVIATA1
TUES. EVE., NOV. 13
PATRICE MUNSEL
SAT. EVE., FEB. 16
HEIFETZ
Trrormnr
CASADESUS
MON EVE., MAR. 3SADLER S WELLS
THEATRE BALLET
MON. EVE., MAR. 24ROBT. SHAW CHORALE
Special Student Rate Sale now on at “May Beegle Concerts/ 
552 UNION TRUST BUILpiNG
Student Rates for Six Events—$3.90, $5.85, $7.80, $8.97 
(Including All Tax). All Seats Reserved.
NO TELEPHONE ORDERS—LIMITED NUMBER 
OF SEATS

---------------------------------------------------

4TAOTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951
Football Personalities 
Of '51 Carnegie Team
The following sketches include, to the best of our knowledge, 
every member of the 1951 Tech football squad. However, late ar­
rivals may have resulted in several omissions. Our apologies to any 
who were omitted from this list. ?—----------------------------------------------------
! cause of an appendectomy . . . Arbanas, Bill . . . junior end j sophomore end from Coal Valley, 
from Greenville, Pa. . . . studying j he js enrolled in printing manage- 
electrical engineering . . . sincere, ; ment.
earnest, and a hard worker. i „ ^ , . . ,,\ Holtz, Quent . . . two letterBlatt, Jim . . . promises well in . quarterback from Hastings, Pa.
the future on offense . . . fresh- ... member of Kappa Sigma . . .
man halfback from Mt. Lebanon j senior EE and the most accurate
... he s a member of Kappa Sigma > passer on the team . . . likes the
Fraternity. : quarterback sneak.Blumfeldt, Jerry. . . . former „ T . .Kaye, John . . . went to St. Jus- [transfer from Lehigh . . . success­
ful defensive player at halfback 
last year . . . will see both offen­
sive and defensive duty this year 
. . . lives in Mt. Lebanon.
Campbell, Bob . . . freshman 
center from South Hills high
tin’s high school . . . junior me­
chanical engineer and a hard 
worker . . . will see mostly de­
fensive action this year.
Katz, Owen . . . big boy who has 
improved much over last year . . . 
school ... a Civil Engineer who is I sophomore from Baltimore, Mary- 
big and active . . . shows promise, j ^anc^ • • • ou* *01 a tackle spot. 
Carricato, Guy . . . another! Kaplan, Jim ... a music student
freshman . . . quarterback from 
Sharpsburg, Pa. ... an aeronau­
tical engineer ... he has displayed 
excellent form in handling the 
ball.
Cherigos, Mike . . . architect 
from Allderdice high school . . . 
another freshman fighting for an 
end position.
Cotrill, Bob . . . just came out 
for the squad . . . freshman Civil 
Engineer from Aspinwall.
Craif, Tom . . . junior end from 
East McKeesport . . . basketball 
lettei'man trying his first year of 
college football . . . proving good 
basketball players make good ends 
. . . should snag a lot of passes 
this year.
Cortez. Dick . . . freshman Met­
allurgist trying out at halfback . . . 
hails from Mt. Lebanon.
Dirkes, Carl . . . more young 
blood . . . freshman Mechanical 
Engineer . . . will be a reliable 
substitute at guard this year.
Dissen. Gil . . . junior Civil En­
gineer from New Castle, Pa., 
where he played quarterback . . .
. junior 
ood de-
. southpaw 
natural for
Duquesne’s
but rough and tough . 
from McKeesport and a 
tensive player.
Kennedy, Bill . . . freshman civil 
from Peabody High . . . making an 
excellent showing . . 
passes make him a 
right halfback.
Kowallis, Jack . . . 
his home ... a hardworking and 
earnest halfback ... a junior in 
industrial management.
Lange, Hans . . . another Pitts­
burgher from Langley High ... a 
metallurgist senior with two let­
ters and should have his best year 
at tackle . . . outstanding on both 
offense and defense.
Leaman, Ted . . -. went to Shady- 
side Academy . . . played his first 
year at Carnegie last year after 
transferring from Colgate . . . for­
mer Marine and cool under pres­
sure . . . with much improved pass­
ing, will operate as first string 
quarterback and defensive half­
back.
Luchok, Charles . . . younger 
brother of Johnny . . . trying his
rHE
TAmUSfAR
PÎNÇ
,p&f C,C/Sd*l J»
now at halfback, he’s a top-notch j freshman year at end . . . tall and
defensive line backer and tough on 
offense . . . has an educated toe 
which seldom misses TD conver­
sions.
Feldman, Jim . . . native Pitts­
burgher from Shadyside Academy 
. . . freshman in the drama depart­
ment.
willing, he was basketball star at 
Centerville high school.
Luchok, John . . . three letter 
man in both football and track . . . 
filling Nick Simcic’s shoes at left 
half this year . . . a senior metal­
lurgist and fastest man on the 
team . . . will score often ... a
Managers Wanted!
All candidates for varsity 
basketball manager report to 
the Athletic office, Room 102, 
Gym, at 4:30 p.m., Wednes­
day, September 26.
WHO WILL IT BE IN ’51 ?
Shown above are the members of the 1950 Carnegie Tech starting football lineup, with the ex­
ception of the three seniors, Nick Simcic, Floyd Wiseman, and Lou Fougere who graduated last year. 
The opening game at California State Teachers College this Saturday will reveal what men Dr. Eddie 
Baker has found to fill these vacancies and any other changes that have been made in the lineup.
Fuellgraf, Chuck . . . top candi­
date for the center position . . . 
from Butler, Pa. ... a junior elec­
trical and member of ATO . . . 
outstanding as defensive center 
line backer.
Galanda, Joe . . . Music junior 
from Marianna, Pa. . . . played for 
Trinity High in Washington, Pa. 
... a first class offensive tackle, 
he gets a first string nod.
Griffith, Chuck . . . his home at 
Crafton but a transfer from Miami 
University of Ohio ... a small but 
shifty halfback and a junior elec­
trical . . . broke a foot bone in pre­
season practice which will side­
line him for a while. *
Guenther, Wayne . . . another 
giidder sidelined for a while be-
member of Kappa Sigma, his home 
is Richeyville.
McCarthey, John . . . freshman 
mechanical engineer . . . attended 
North Catholic and lives in Aspin­
wall . . . looks good at defensive 
tackle in practice.
Miller, Eddie . . . one of the 
smallest men on the squad . . . 
freshman from Terrace, Pa. and 
played at Homestead high school 
. . . displays good passing form at 
quarterback.
Neaman, Sanford ... a sopho­
more architect from Pittsburgh 
. . . will see plenty of action as de- 
! fensive tackle.
Oberg, Arne . . . Hartford, Con­
necticut native and a senior in in- 
j dustrial management . . . oppon-
ents need insurance when he hits
the line as fullback . . . best pun­
ter on the team, he is a member 
of SAE.
Odeh, Bob . . . another senior in 
industrial management . . . hails 
from Akron, Ohio, and is a mem­
ber of Delta Upsilon . . . Weighing 
in at 220, he will be seen most fre­
quently on the offensive platoon.
Onufer, Len . . . Forest Hills 
and Wilkinsburg high school . . . 
a junior mechanical engineer, he’s 
small but willing.
Pakan, BilP ... a junior in 
printing management . . . from 
Duquesne ,he will be seen at right 
half.
Pakos, Dick ... sophomore
chemist from Lorain, Ohio . . . 
with service at end on last year’s 
squad, he will probably get the 
starting nod this season.
Pandick, Pete . . . Printing man­
agement sophomore from Fan- 
wood, N. J., and a member of Sig­
ma Nu .. . small, but aggressive, 
he will work at guard.
Peoples, Paul . . . sophomore 
guard from Punxsutawney, Pa. 
... a student in industrial man­
agement, he should make a name 
this year both offensively and de­
fensively.
Reuther, Bob ... a junior tackle 
from Wheeling, W. Va. . . . de­
partment is mechanical engineer­
ing ... Pi Kappa Alpha Frater­
nity . . . will provide valuable 
reserve strength at tackle.
Rubin, Ray . . . halfback from 
Chicago, 111. . . . junior mechani­
cal engineer and a member of 
Kappa Sigma . . . showing more 
speed and fight this year, he will 
figure prominently both offensive­
ly and defensively.
Rusnak, George . . . senior elec­
trical engineer and first string 
guard . . . from Whitaker, Pa., 
Rusty didn’t play football until 
he entered college . . . best pal 
of all on the team but 220 pounds 
carries a lot of weight for oppon­
ents at guard.
Schell, Albert ... one of the 
best freshman prospects at center 
I . . . from Aliquippa, Pa., has shown 
lots of drive and fight . . . will 
see lots of action this year and 
his rangy 195 pound frame prom­
ises more weight in the future.
Shechter, Irv . . . junior P&D 
halfback from Peabody High . . . 
smallest man on the squad but 
determination and drive have 
given him the nickname “Fire­
ball”. . . a letterman, will run 
the first string right half position.
Selavko, Wally . . . Hails from 
Cleveland, Ohio . . . junior archi­
tect and letterman at end . . . 
made an excellent showing de­
fensively last year and will re­
peat the performance again.
Shermeyer, Ray . . . small at 
162 pounds but slippery at guard 
... will do well on offense . . . 
j from Braddock, Pa., and a dramat.
Skillen, Don . . . another fresh­
man with promise . . . working at 
fullback, shows signs of future line 
plunging and good defensive line 
backing . . . attended Carrick 
High and is majoring in civil en­
gineering.
Stahle, Clyde ... a two letter 
winner at tackle, Clyde will be one 
of the most valuable and depend­
able lineman on the squad . . . 
will see both offensive and defen­
sive action . . . he’s a junior 
mechanical engineer from Greens- 
burg, Pa.
Startzell, Dale . . . senior half­
back from Punxsutawney, Pa., 
and an aeronautical major . . . 
popular president of the Varsity 
C Club and a member of Kappa 
Sigma fraternity ... is attempt­
ing a recovery from a leg opera­
tion in the spring.
Vodenichar, Jim . . . tough and 
aggressive guard from Sharon, Pa.
. . . junior EE and Alpha Taxi 
Omega . . . will show plenty of 
action this year.
Whitenight Herman . . . an­
other first stringer at guard . . . 
junior P&D from Munhall, Pa.
I . . . plays both offensively and de­
fensively ... a hard charger and 
1 fighter who never gives up.
Wilson, Fritz . . . another three 
letter track and football man . . . 
prospect for Little All-American 
! and sure to start at left end . . . 
a sure pass shagger and a speed 
merchan. with crazy hips ... a 
senior electrical engineer from 
McKeesport, Pa., and a member 
of Sigma Nu.
Mitchell, Sam . . . halfback from 
Mt. Lebanon and senior in indus­
trial management . . . fast on his 
feet and a member of the track 
squad.
Alexander, John . . . freshman
tackle from Langley High . . . ma­
joring in mechanical engineering.
Cleaning—Pressing 
Altering
Finest Work in Pittsburgh
S. I). MARKUS
5806 Forbes St. JA 1-4609

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951TAMAN5
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
.Th an eny Shirt 
and youll simply sweep 
her off her feet o
ARROW
SPORTSCO 1*18
. This week's Sportscope appears as a-guest editorial by 
President J. C. Warner, who presents his statement on athletic 
policy at Carnegie.
I am fully in accord with the athletic policy adopted in 
1937. I believe the years since then have proved that this 
policy, even with some ‘ups and downs,’ is basically sound for 
Carnegie Tech, and that the great majority of tnose most 
vitally concerned—students, faculty, alumni, trustees and 
friends—now consider it a plan which serves tne best inter­
ests of the institution.
Briefly, this policy calls for: (I) maintaining Carnegie
first and above all as a high ranking educational institution 
and not as an instrument for entertaining the general public 
by means of elaborate athletic spectacles; (2) adhering to the 
same entrance requirements and classroom standards for all 
students; (3) providing such financial aid to students with 
athletic ability as is made possible by the Steffen Scholarship 
Fund—a fund supported by contributions to Carnegie by in­
terested alumni; (4) being honest and straightforward in all 
of our athletic endeavors; (5) encouraging our students to 
participate in both intercollegiate and intramural sports as 
a supplement to their educational experience and as a whole­
some part of college life.
You will note that I believe our present policy is basically 
sound for Carnegie Tech. To the best of my knowledge, Dr. 
Doherty never pretended, nor do I pretend, that we have found 
unique solutions to the problems which plague many colleges and 
universities because of overemphasis on intercollegiate athletics.
I believe we have found a sound solution to our own 
problem and that our solution might be studied by the other 
colleges of similar size which are devoted to providing our 
kind of professional education. We have no missionary zeal 
in the matter—we’re not trying to save the collegiate world.
It seems to me that our solution is a better one than that 
adopted by the colleges which have called a halt to intercol­
legiate football. Intercollegiate competition can add zest to 
college life and can be of benefit to those who participate by 
encouraging the development of the arts of self-discipline and 
leadership. Although individual participants derive thrills 
and satisfaction from successful competition, we must recog­
nize the real job those men are doing who represent us on our 
teams while meeting their classroom obligations as students. 
All of us should support our teams by attending games and 
by yelling and singing our encouragement.
But let’s not become sanctimonious about our athletic 
policy—let’s relax and enjoy it!
J. C. Warner.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD S MEN S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
AUFHAMMER & EVANS. Inc.
ROY V. BEESE 
Ä100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
1951 Tartan Football Roster
NameNo.PositionWeightClassCourseCity
Alexander, John37Tackle200Fr.Mech. Eng.Pittsburgh
Blatt, Jim11Right Half182Fr.Mech. Eng.Mt. Lebanon
Blumfeldt, Gerry12Left Half188So.Mech. Eng.E. McKeesport
Craig, Tom29End180Jr.Mech. Eng.E. McKeesport
Carricato, Guy33Quarter185Fr.Mech. Eng.Sharpsburg
Dirkes, Carl31Tackle190Fr.Civ. Eng.New York, N. Y.
Dissen, Gilbert39Full180Jr.Civ. Eng.New Castle
Fuellgraf, Charles56Center195Jr.Elee. Eng.Butler
Galanda, Joe42Tackle205Jr.MusicMarianna
Griffith, Charles10Left Half170Jr.Elee. Eng.Butler
Guenther, Wayne55End200So.Print. Mgmt.Coal Valley
Holtz, Quentin45Quarter176Sr.PhysicsHastings
Kaye, John »54End196Jr.Mech. Eng.Dormont
Katz, Owen52Guard200So.Met. Eng.Baltimore
Kennedy, Bill24Right Half165Fr.Civ. Eng.Pittsburgh
Krotec, Lawrence28Center192Jr.Elee. Eng.Pittsburgh
Lange, Hans30Tackle195Sr.Met. Eng.Pittsburgh
Leaman, Ted44Quarter175Sr.Ind. Mgmt.Pittsburgh
Luchok, Charles27End170Fr.Mech. Eng.Richey ville
Luchok, John. 35Left Half180Sr.Met. Eng.Richeyville
McCarthy, John48Tackle210Fr.Mech. Eng.Pittsburgh
Miller, Ed15Quarter158Fr.Chem. Eng.Homestead
Neaman, Sanford58Tackle220So.Arch.Pittsburgh
Odeh, Bob48Guard220Sr.Math.Akron, Ohio
Oberg, Arne50Full190Sr.Ind. MgmtW. Hartford, Conn.
Pakan, Bill14Right Half160Jr.Print. MgmtDuquesne
Pakos, Dick26End195So.Chemistry. Lorain, Ohio
Pandick, Pete51Guard178So.Print. Mgmt.Fanwood, N. J.
Peoples, Paul23Guard190So.Ind. Mgmt.Punxsutawney
Reuther, Bob53Tackle195Jr.Mech. Eng.Wheeling, W. V».
Rubin, Raymond25Right Half170Jr.Mech. Eng.Chicago, 111.
Rusnak, George38Guard220Sr.Elee. Eng.Whitaker
Schell, Albert47Center195Fr.Civ. Eng.Aliquippa
Selavko, Walter46End163Jr.Arch.Cleveland. Ohio
Shechter, Irving21Right Half150Jr.Paint & DesignPittsburgh
Shermeyer, Ray20Guard162Jr.DramaBraddock
Skillin, Don32Full180Fr.Civ. Eng.Pittsburgh
Stahle, Clyde43Tackle197Jr.Mech. Eng.Greensburgh
Startzell, Dale40Left Half178Sr.Mech. Eng.Sprankle Mills
Vodenicar, Jim41Guard175Jr.Elee. Eng.Sharon
Whitenight, Herman36Guard180Jr.Paint & DesignMunhall
Wilson, Frits18End185Sr.Elee. Eng.McKeesport
One bright spot in Dr. Baker's grid picture this fall is the return of twenty-one of last season's 
lettermert. Pictured above, they are from left to right: Standing—Irv Shechter, Herman Whitenight, 
Gerry Blumfeldt, John Luchok, George Rusnak, Hans Lange, Fritz Wilson, Bob Odeh, Chuck Fuell- 
graf, Clyde Stahle, Ray Shermeyer, and Joe Galanda; Kneeling—Paul Peoples, Dale Startzell, Walt Se- 
lavko, Quent Holtz, Gil Dissen, Arne Oberg, Dick Pakos, Ted Leaman, and Jim Vodenichar.
Headquarters for Fraternity & 
Sorority Supplies
Oakland Hardware
3606 FORBES ST.
MA. 1-0923
California A Question 
As Carnegie Opens
? As the Carnesie Tartans round
FRANK MEN’S WEAR
5816 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
into shape for their opening game 
at California State Teachers Col­
lege this Saturday, little is known 
about strength of their opponents. 
A new addition to the schedule, 
replacing Davis & Elkin whom the 
Plaid opened against last year, the 
Vulcans of California must be set 
down as a question mark.
Carnegie has played California 
only once before in 1906 — the 
game ending in a scoreless tie. 
Last year California had a rather 
mediocre record, but will go into 
the game against the Tartans Sat­
urday with one victory already 
under their belt this year. In their 
opener against Edinboro last Sat­
urday, the Vulcan rolled to an 
easy 33-6 victory mainly on ac­
count of their passing attack and 
some outstanding running by left 
half, Dan O’Hara. On the strength 
of their early win, California will 
present a worthy opponent to the 
Plaid.

---------------------------------------------------

Ihe "A” stands for "Activities”—and he’s in a 
lot of them. Plays first-string basketball. Writes 
for the school paper. Represents his class on the 
student council.
And on top of that, he’s a good student.
Telephone people are like that, too. Besides 
giving good, friendly, courteous telephone service, 
they take part in numerous extracurricular 
activities.
That’s why you’ll find telephone men and 
women working on charity drives, joining service 
clubs, leading Scout troops.
The same spirit of friendliness and helpfulness 
which lies behind the fine telephone service this 
country receives, makes telephone people A-people 
in their communities.
BELL TELEPHOHE'SYSTEM m
MVWlTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951
Carnegie Coaches Aim 
For 3rd Winning Year
Wealth Of Football Experience 
Back Of Tartan Grid Mentors
Turn In Scores!
Intramural managers and 
officials are requested to turn 
in scores of contests as soon 
as possible to the Intramural 
Office so the Tartan can give 
full coverage.
By Dick Durstine
To the unlettered observer, a football coach is a large, brown, 
nondescript mass which stalks restlessly in front of, and occasionally 
sits upon, the players’ bench. Further investigation shows, however, 
that this little known animal resembles very closely a human being.
CIT’s coaching staff, in fact, actu-^-----------------------------------------------------
ally consists of four real men and 
a trainer (also a human), who
double as normal citizens when 
not leading the Tartans to bat­
tle.
A Product of Pitt
Dr. Eddie Baker, head coach, is a practicing dentist, loading his 
Carnegie chores, which consume 
about 25 hours per week, on top 
of a full office schedule which 
shortens only one hour a day dur­
ing the grid season. Dr. Baker is a 
product of that tall, grey fhstitu- 
tion on the other side of Forbes 
street, having received his dentis­
try degree there in 1932. He serv­
ed as regular quarterback for the 
Panthers oi 1923-30 under the late 
Jock Sutherland, and led the Pitt 
warriors, which also included 
present Carnegie line coach Eddie 
Hirshberg as starting end, to the 
Rose Bowl in 1930.
From 1937 to ’39 Dr. Baker was 
CIT coach Bill Kern’s assistant, 
working as backfield mentor for 
the 1938 Sugar Bowl team. Tak­
ing over the head coaching duties 
in 1940 and continuing for three 
years, he piloted a de-emphasized 
Carnegie eleven to seven victories 
and 15 defeats against such titans 
as Notre Dame, Pitt, and Holy 
Cross. In fact, in 1942 (sive casu, 
sive consilium decorum) the light 
(average lineman: 180 lb.) Tartan 
squad held Pitt to a 6-6 tie for 
three quarters before finally bow­
ing to the Panthers.
Coach Baker assumed his pres­
ent post at Carnegie in 1949, after 
returning from a stretch with the 
U.S. Navy.
Interest Growing
Concerning Carnegie’s school 
spirit, or lack of it, Dr. Baker re­
marked that interest in football at 
CIT seems to be growing, due 
largely to last year’s successful 
seven and one season.
Eddie Hirshberg, also a Pitt 
®uii} auies aqj pa-im ‘snuuinxe 
that Coach Baker assumed his 
present position. He was captain of 
the 1931 Panthers, and served on 
the coaching staffs of Pitt, Scran­
ton, Dartmouth, West Virginia, and 
Yale before coming to Carnegie 
Tech.
A Tartan Since ’19
The sole Carnegie alumnus on 
the Tartan coaching squad is A1 
“Ace” Irwin, who entered CIT in 
1919 as a student of management
and has served in some capacity 
for the athletic department ever 
since. Mr. Irvin is one of those 
rare persons who has played five 
years of college football as a leg­
ally eligible player, putting in one 
year at W&J under army sponsor­
ship and four seasons for the 
Tartans.
Of the past Carnegie squads, 
Coach Irwin considers those of 
1926, ’28, and ’38 the best, but 
remarked concerning the present 
setup, “I like it . . . everybody 
seems to enjoy football around 
here, and after all, that’s what it’s 
for.”
The fourth member of the Car­
negie coaching quartet is Walt 
Burns, a former halfback for the 
University of Chicago under Amos 
Alonzo Stag. He has served in an 
unoffcial capacity in Carnegie 
football since 1920, and was nam­
ed assistant coach in 1946.
Tartans vs. Irish
Concerning Carnegie’s football 
past, Coach Burns pointed out that 
Carnegie is possibly the only 
school which has ever defeated 
Notre Dame two games in suc­
cession. The 1926 Skibos topped
LET’S GO TO
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College
' District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland 
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
the Irish in Pittsburgh, 19-0, and 
in 1928 the Tartans were triumph­
ant at South Bend.
All important in sports is the 
trainer. Walt Willoughby serves 
in that capacity for CIT when not 
pursuing the printing business. 
Carnegie’s trainer for all intercol­
legiate sports, and occasionally for 
intramurals, he finds that football 
produces the greatest number of 
injuries, as might be expected, but 
largely because of the number of 
students on the squad in compari­
son to the others. In injuries per 
capita, however, intramural touch 
football challenges varsity sports 
as a rugged game.
One Big Difference 
A Tartan victory eases the train­
er’s problems, for a while at least: 
“They don’t feel the aches and 
pains so much if they win. But 
that’s only for 24 hours. After that 
it doesn’t matter if they win or 
loose, they hurt just the same.” 
Trainer Willoughby, who served 
five years at Pitt, pointed out a big 
difference between the two schools. 
“The students here seem to have 
more fun playing football.” And, 
as Coach Irwin has pointed out, 
“That’s what it’s for.”
Use AI
3455BE LTPHO
for
? Signatures
? Addressing
? Laundry Marking
ONE DAY SERVICE 
call
JAS. H. MATTHEWS & CO.
MUseum 1-8500
3942 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
The men pictured above are members of that small group who 
receive relatively little credit for the large amount of work they 
preform, namely the football managers. They are, left to right, Keith 
Riley, Bill Warfel, Bob Vanderslice, and Ed Mitchell.
1950 RESULTS
CarnegieOpponent
20Davis Elkins12
34Bethany3
26Akron6
14Allegheny13
36Case27
21W&J14
0Lehigh66
20Westminster0
1951 SCHEDULE
Sept. 29—California—Away. 
Oct. 6—Bethany—Home.
Oct. 13—Akron—Away.
Oct. 20—Allegheny—Home* 
Oct. 27—Case—Away.
Nov. 3—W & J—Away.
Nov. 10—Lehigh—Home.
Nov. 17—Westminster—Home. 
•Homecoming Game.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951TAfMPAN7
%
‘‘"CARNEGISkl/• ilMV fi # A'/ '/Mi Mr V
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology.
Editor....................................................................................George Schussler
Hiews
And
V iews
A hearty welcome to all-both 
new and old students. After a 
wonderful summer in which to 
relax, we are all back with re­
newed ambition to improve our 
situation in life by assimilating 
some of the great store of knowl­
edge here at Carnegie. How much 
we are able to grasp and retain 
for- further use depends on each 
one of us, and evening students 
have a reputation of having a 
tenacity of purpose.
One of the most confusing in­
novation to most of the old-tim­
ers was the listing of “Porter Hall” 
on the schedule cards. All won­
dered where the new building had 
sprung up on the campus. The 
mystery was finally solved when 
it was found to be the new name 
for Industries Hall, the first build­
ing of the original school group. 
The new name gives honor to the 
Porter family (John L. Porter, was 
a former chairman of the Execu­
tive Committee of Carnegie Tech).
THERE IS NO TEAR 
WE CAN’T REPAIR
S. D. MARKUS
5806 Forbes St. - JA 1-4609
You can’t match us if you try
It was a generous bequest made 
by this family in 1940 that made 
possible the extensive renovation 
of the existing structure.
Work on the new Industrial Ad­
ministration building is progress­
ing favorably. Students interested 
in architecture and structures will 
•find, many interesting and novel- 
applications of design to study.
Students entering CIT for the I 
first time at registration on Tues- ! 
day, September 18, were in for a 
series of long lines. Credit goes to 
them for their long patient wait­
ing. Some of the difficulties could 
have been avoided by previous ( 
conferences on the part of the! 
students with faculty advisors, 1 
while other difficulties could have ] 
been eased by the school. Well, at ; 
least it is a relief to know that j 
next year you will already have i 
that elusive “student number” 
when you register. Aided by the 
new IBM system your registration 
proceedure will be greatly sim­
plified.
Help Wanted!
Here is your opportunity to 
prove your ability in express­
ing your ideas to others. A 
position on the staff of your 
evening school newspaper— 
The Plaid, will not only add 
to your persona] satisfaction 
of contributing to a worth­
while cause, but it gives you 
the opportunity of making 
friends with a swell group of 
girls and fellows. Just drop 
into the Plaid office on the 
third floor of the Carnegie 
Union any Friday evening 
after 8:30 p.m. or write to 
your editor in care of Box 
256.
There are also a number of 
openings in the circulation de­
partment of the newspapers. 
Here is an easy way to earn 
points toward a coveted In­
signia Award. So get out your 
paper and pencil right now 
and write to your editor.
Insignia A ward Banquet
This year Saturday evening, October 6, will be the date of 
the Insignia Award banquet. Here 17 students of the evening school 
will be treated to a sumptuous dinner and presented with Insignia 
Award keys in recognition of their participation in extra curricular 
activities.
The following information is presented for the information of stu­
dents to acquaint them with the qualifications necessary to win an 
Insignia Award. Anyone in evening school is eligible to participate in 
earning points toward an Insignia key. The number of points re­
quired to earn a key are very easily acquired in one semester. Twenty 
points earn a key. These points may be earned by activity in a num­
ber of functions such as selling tickets for dances, working on the En­
gineers Banquet, decorating for dances, Plaid distribution, writing 
articles for the Plaid, or making posters for dances.
Up to six points are awarded for each one of these functions, so 
the average student has no difficulty in acquiring sufficient points dur­
ing the school year.
More detailed information of the points allowed for each function 
may be had by contacting your Council members, Plaid staff, or by 
writing them via free intra-school mail at the post office by the Book 
Store c/o Box 256 CIT.
ITS EASIER THAN EVER! _ Senio
? rRgs
2876 ,aYer881
PSli°kPr
More BOUNCE To The Ounce
No tricks! No gimmicks! Takes no time-no special talent! You can make $25. 
Just write a simple four-line ¡ingle based on the fact that
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE I
__________________________(or other qualities of Luckies such as those listed below.)--------------------------------------------
Write a Lucky Strike jingle, like those 
you see on this page, based on the 
fact that Luckies taste better than any 
other cigarette, or other qualities of 
Luckies such as those listed below. If 
your jingle is selected for possible use 
in Lucky Strike advertising, we will 
pay you $25 for the right to use it and 
your name in our advertising. Lucky 
Strike jingles will soon be running in 
your paper. Start today—send in as 
many jingles as you like. Be the first 
to write a jingle in your school!
* da*'*"“ *°
just vAj*
MAD THESE SIMPLI INSTRUCTIONS
1« Write your Lucky Strike four-line jingle on a plain piece of paper or postcard and tend it to Happy-Go-Lucky, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y. Be sure that your name, address, college and clan are included—and that they are legible.
2. Base your jingle on the fact that Lucktee taste, better than any other cigarette—or on any of the alternate themes below.
3. Every student of any college, university or post-graduate school may submit jinglea.
IMPORTANT:
To make money writing jingles, it is not essential to base your jingle on “Luckies taste better than any other cigarette.’* You may base a jingle on other outstanding qualities of Luckies such as the following:
L.S./M.F.T.Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco Be Happy—Go Lucky!So round, so firm, so fully packedSo free and easy on the drawBuy Luckies by the cartonLuckies give you deep-down smoking enjoymentLuckies arc the world’s best made cigarette.
cor«., THI AMERICAN TOSACCO COMPANY
L S/M. FT- lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco
r-------------------------------------------
i AMERICAN PENCIL CO.
1 Hoboken, Now Jortoy
I Enclosed is 25# for my copy of “S'.actI with Venus '—and the 3<, bmind Tut Kit ttj with 2 Venus Dr«» ing Pencils.
| Nam* |
I Scé»oJ............................................... |
I Addr» ii|
I City..............................iMr.......... IL_________________________________I
the world's finest, largest selling
DRAWING PENCILS
SMOOTHER, STRONGER 
ACCURATELY GRADED
: Ask working architects, engi- 
| neers, draftsmen. See how many 
! use Venus —the pencil that 
holds a fine point or sharp 
chisel edge. The pencil that 
gives you opaque lines for 
sharp, clear reproduction 
Venus Drawing Pencils are 
smooth, strong, accurate anc 
uniform in all 17 
Buy them at your College 
Book Store.
GET 
THIS
helpful, 
j illustrated 
j instruction 
brochure.
AM FIEE Venus Drawing 
j cils! Send 25# for the | chure on the art of pencil dering. Included is a Venus | Technical Test Kit— with rwo Venus Drawing Pencils.
AMERICAN PENCIL CO.
HOftOKEN, N. J.

---------------------------------------------------

8TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1951
345BELTPBT5H
CHESTERFIELD -LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IH AMERICA’S COLLEGES
MILDNESS
i fÿü'
* NO UNPLEASANT 
AFTER-TASTE
SIGNED
TYPEWRITERS SJOSO
All Kinds M Low >i
Tail Beta PiGlee ClubPatronize Tartan Advertisers
•Names Officers 
For New Year
Tau Beta Pi. the national engi­
neering honor society, elected new 
officers at the May meeting of the 
spring semester. Elected to the of­
fices were: William Crise, presi­
dent; Robert Jaross, vice-presi­
dent; John Herrington, corres­
ponding secretary; Sam Cerni, re­
cording secretary; Robert Lynch, 
treasurer; and William Hughes, 
cataloguer.
This year, Tau Beta Pi will 
continue undergraduate tutoring 
program under the direction of 
John Herrington. In addition the 
organization will write one issue 
of the Technical. At various times 
throughout the year speakers and 
lecturers will be presented.
President Crise will represent 
Carnegie Tech's Gamma Chapter 
at the national convention to be j 
held in Boulder, Colorado next 
month.
Debaters!
Freshman interested in 
joining the Debating Club are 
requested to attend the or­
ganizational meeting, Tuesday, 
Sept. 25, in the Carnegie Un­
ion at 4:30 p.m. No previous 
experience is necessary.
[Continued from page IJ 
certs at high schools, churches, 
chapels, Spring Carnival, Home­
coming, Aspinwall Veteran’s Hos­
pital, and the Spring Formal con­
cert. While at Christmas the group 
will do their annual caroling. In­
terspersed between these concerts, 
the group plans to find time for 
social events.
T echnical
[Continued, from page 1]
The decision of the judges will 
be final.
7. The winner will be announced 
in the May 10. 1952 issue of the 
Technical.
Articles should be submitted to 
the contest editor of the Carnegie 
Technical in care of intra-school 
mail.
RENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
A Mo nth
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
American Typewriter Co.
11 Wood St. (0.1-1019
Convenient Parking ¦ 1 * 1 #
Socrates preached:
“THE BEST SEASON
FOR FOOD IS HUNGER.
FOR DRINK, THIRST ”
uh'rnb
Score one for Soc. He's absolutely right 
. . . thirst knows no season. That’s why 
anytime is the right time for Coke.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
^Cok»" m a registered trade-mark. © 1951, THE COCA-COLA COMP AMT
TH€ COCA-COtA COMPANY »T
