* C A R N E G I E
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 61 — NUMBER 21 WEDNESDAY, MARCH lft,. 1964
Greek Sing Honors Go To Tri-Delta And Tau Delt
ICA i R N
Delta Delta DeltaTan Delta Phi
— Photos by Ron Chetlin
“Great Shakes” Chosen To Be Don’t Knock 
1964 Spring Carnival Theme
A sure sign of approaching good weather is that Spring 
Carnival is only six weeks from this coming Friday. This 
year’s pre-summer extravaganza will be held on Friday and 
Saturday, May 1 and 2. 1964’s edition of this annual event 
is shaping up as one of the best Carnivals ever.
Great Shakes is the theme. It 
was selected because of the proxi­
mity of William Shakespeare’s 
birthday, his four hundredth anni­
versary being celebrated on April 
^ 24. one week before Carnival. The 
theme presents a wealth of pos­
sible material for booth designs 
and skit themes. Yet, it narrows 
the field enough, so that the judges 
will be able to compare all efforts, 
boLh adequately and fairly 
Chairman this year is Blaine 
Cliver, a senior architect, who is 
assisted by Vice-Chairman Betsy 
^ Bealke, a junior in painting and 
design. Supplemented by many 
eager undergrads, these two are 
directing a hopeful committee., one 
full of expectations for a success 
ful Carnival.
Since Carnival is intended by 
the committee to be an all-school 
event this year is reality, as well 
as in name, any campus organiza­
tion interested in entering either 
the booth competition or the buggy 
races, send your entry in now. 
Contact Richard Elkman (682-
8158) for booths, and Bill Fair- 
cloth (682-9211) for the Sweep­
stakes.
A new addition to the Carnival 
festivities this year will be a stu­
dent Talent Jamboree. Any indi- 
^ vidual or group with some musical 
' ^ talent, and interested in compet­
ing, is urged to enter. Contact
Justin Polulack (682-9252).
The entertainment for Friday 
and Saturday nights will be the 
best in many years. However, the 
names of the groups will not be 
announced until after Easter vaca­
tion. Tickets will be placed on
I sale at that time in different areas
I around campus.
Scimitars Seek 
Top Freshmen
All freshmen men with over a 
2.5 first semester factor will 
ceive a letter this week inviting 
them to apply for an interview 
with Scimitars. The sophomore 
men's activities honorary is pre­
paring to select outstanding mem­
bers of thè class of ’67 for initia­
tion into the society. Each sprin 
the group seeks to recognize 15 to
18 freshmen for scholastic achieve­
ment and leadership qualities as 
exemplified by participation in 
campus activities. Applications 
should be completed and returned 
by next Wednesday, March 25. 
Personal interviews with the most 
qualified will follow in mid-April.
Scimitars is entirely a Carnegie 
creation and is unique to t h 
campus. In 1933 ten sophomores 
founded the group to both honor 
outstanding freshmen and to sup­
ervise che then very active fresh­
men hazing. Originally the so­
ciety acted as a court to punish 
freshmen without dinks, absent 
from assembly, or violating any of 
the other regulations in the “Plebe 
Bible.1' Among other things Sci­
mitars organized the traditional 
Freshman-Sophomore excuse for 
mayhem called the numerals rush. 
In 1934, this consisted of 30 sopho­
mores protecting a '36 painted on 
a large piece of canvas from the 
attack of 30 freshmen. The class 
with the most hands touching the 
canvas after ten minutes of fight­
ing was to be the winner. When 
the tangled belligerents were un­
raveled, only one freshman was 
found unconscious at the bottom. 
The sophomores were declared the 
winners thanks to 18 extra de- 
(continued on page 7)
UMOC, Mac; 
Save Your 2*
Spring approaches. The snows 
have gone, the trees are budding, 
and the squirrels renew activity. 
Amidst the preparation for spring, 
he awakens from a long winter's 
nap — UMOC — Ugliest Man 
on Campus.
The “Ugliest Man on Campus" 
contest, a service project of the 
Alpha Phi Omega chapter at Car­
negie Tech and other campuses 
across the nation, raises funds 
for Campus Chest Drives.
All campus organizations are 
urged to search out the ugliest 
male Tech student in their midst, 
and enter him in the competition. 
To preserve some degree of com­
petition, faculty members will not 
be allowed to run.
Sororities are invited to seek 
out their favorite ugly man and 
enter him in the fray. Any group 
may organize to run and support 
a candidate.
Find a candidate: Easy: How 
about your roommate, fraternity 
brother, or how about you?
Voting will be held in front of 
Skibo and the Hunt Library on 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
and Thursday, April 27-30 from 
8:30 to 4:30. The voting require­
ment is a penny a ballot, and 
stuffing the ballot box is in or­
der. Anyone who decides that one 
candidate is "just as ugly as an­
other may stuff as many ballot 
boxes as desired. Save your pen­
nies.. and support your favorite 
ugly.
Alpha Phi Omega has arranged 
to have the ugly pictures taken 
on Saturday, April 4. This will 
! all organizations either per­
manent or newly-formed to spon­
sor a candidate, equal opportun­
ity to enter.
The winner will be announced 
at the Spring Carneval Dance. 
Besides the honor and distinction 
of being the “Ugliest Man on 
Campus," the winner will re­
ceive the coveted “Ugly Mug" 
(as ugly as UMOC himself, if this 
(continued on page 6)
Chi Omega, Sigma Nu 
Get Top. Factor Awards
At 11:15 p.m. last Saturday evening, before a full-capa­
city crowd in the Skibo ballroom, Delta Delta Delta sorority 
and Tau Delta Phi fraternity became this year’s winner of Greek Sing.
In accepting the awards for their representative groups,
-----?directors Judy Zabetakias and
T1 rrT • Neal Huguley found themselvesBrown I o Give 
Andrew Mellon
Drama Lectures
John Russell Brown, noted 
British Shakespearean scholar 
and director, will be the Visiting 
Andrew Mellon Professor 
Drama at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology for the next seven 
weeks.
Professor Brown's stay coincides 
with the 50th anniversary of the 
Department of Drama in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, and the 400th 
anniversary celebration of Shake­
speare’s birth.
He will deliver Andrew Mellon 
Lectures .on Drama at Carnegie 
Tech on April 20 and 21, and also 
direct The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
production of Shakespeare's 
“Twelfth Night.”
Professor Brown has directed 
productions at universities and in 
repertory festivals in England. He 
has written one play, produced 
professionally, and was a faculty 
member of the University of Bir­
mingham before being named head 
the Department of Theatre 
Arts there.
Among his published works are 
books on Shakespearean comedies, 
and the Jacobean theatre. He has 
edited the Revels edition of Web­
ster’s The White Devil, and the 
Arden Merchant of Venice; he has 
also edited volumes of essays on 
Shakespeare, Restoration Theatre, 
and Contemporary Theatre. Pro­
fessor Brown has also written 
numerous articles for British and 
American publications.
Professor Brown, his ¦ wife and 
their two children will leave 
Pittsburgh on April 27.
speechless before the microphone. 
Both had run up to the stage, 
each embracing the chairman of 
the week-end, Larry Lang and 
Lyneile Torno.
After these awards were an­
nounced, Huguley was hoisted 
upon the shoulders of his frater­
nity brothers who led a proces­
sion out of the ballroom. The Tri- 
Deltas followed them, singing 
their sorority cheer.
Runners-up in the Greek Sing 
competition were Kappa Kappa 
Gamma; second - place sorority, 
Kappa Alpha Theta, third-place 
sorority, Beta Theta Pi, second- 
place fraternity, and Sigma Nu, 
thrid-place fraternity. The re­
spective directors were Diana 
Dayton, Elizabeth Ruch. John 
Merrifield, and John MacGregor.
Preceding the Greek Sing 
awards, Chairman Lang and Tor­
no presented Chi Omega and 
Sigma Nu with top scholarship 
honor awards. Sigma Kappa and 
Phi Kappa Theta were presented 
with awards for highest pledge 
factors.
Following this, David Vande- 
Linde was presented with a 
gravel-plaque for recognition ot 
his job as President of the Coun­
cil of Fraternity Presidents.
Tau Delta Phi also received an 
award for most scholarship im­
provement.
Seven fraternities and six so­
rorities had competed for the 
Greek Sing trophies.
Student Congress
There will be a meeting of the 
Committee Heads today at 4:3# 
p.m. in Room 38, Skibo. Spring 
Carnival plans will be discussed.

---------------------------------------------------

r«t 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 18, 19«4
New Calendar 
Is Approved
Academic ..calendars ior 1064, 
J965, and 1966 have been revised 
and approved by the Carnegie 
Tech Executive Board.
In the new calendars the 
Thanksgiving vacation has been 
re-included, extending from Wed­
nesday through the weekend; Fri­
day classes have'been eliminated
Dormitories will close during 
this time although special ar 
rangements can be made by stu­
dents who remain during the 
vacation.
. When the Executive Board re' 
stored the full Thanksgiving va 
cation, it recommended to the 
Calendar Committee that they add 
a day of classes to another vaca­
tion period. The recommendation 
was turned down.
BULLETINBOARD
Pi Delta Epsilon
Pi Delta Epsilon will meet on 
Monday, March 23 in Room 56, 
Skibo at 4:30 p.tn. Tartan will be 
discussed and a New Member 
Committee appointed.
VOLUME6
'^(con^cntiue(
Starts Today
AGATHA - CHRISTIE'S
imler
Oakland’s Only Theatre
S'nS Tickets
Anyone with one or more free' 
periods a week and wanting to sell 
Scotch and Soda tickets, may con­
tact Judy Lipman at 682-9076 or 
682-8526.
Easter Assembly
The Easter Assembly on Tues­
day, March 24 will feature the 
singing of the most' familiar
choruses of Handel’s Messiah. All 
lihembers of the Tech community 
are invited to come to Exhibition 
Hall in the Fine Arts Building at 
11:30 a.m. where Professor Ro­
land Leich. will conduct, with Pa- 
i c i a Prattis accompanying. 
Enough copies of the score will be 
provided courtesy of the Mendels­
sohn Chorus. The Office of Reli­
gious Affairs will sponsor this as­
sembly.
Between Classes or. at Study Break ...
-SCOTTY'S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
.... and . ..
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
Fourth Biff Week
Just Nominated For 
Several Academy Awards 
Including Best Diredor 
And Best Picture!
iiii HilMI
usami
SMN5 MUCUS - Written. Prcdind aid Oôecterf by EUA KAZAN 
mcsENTEO CA EGISTI UIOFH
The Shadyside
682-1901
5518 Walnut St.
CRAFT AVE. THEATER
‘tifyk ÿeu
by ARTHUR KOPIT
All Tickets $2.00
THEATER UPSTAIRS
CLGYia
IlIJNGYOU
mine
»I AND I’M _
Seats $1.50 Sat $2.00 Tues.-Sat. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30
Tickets on Sale at Pitt Book Center
Reservations 621-4445 '
Motorcycles
It is not considered proper to 
park, motor bikes, motor scooters 
and/or motor cycles on sidewalks 
areas or directly outside the Fine 
Arts Building.
There is a program under con­
sideration for operators of the 
above named motor vehicles to 
make available spaces at the fol­
lowing:
Corner of Margaret Morrison 
and Tech Streets immediately 
adjacent to the gated area;
South west corner of the load­
ing block at the East end of Skibo;
Next door to the Home Man­
agement House.
Bicycle racks for non - motor 
driven cycles will be placed be­
neath Hamerschlag Hall, and non­
motor driven vehicles may con­
tinue to be parked outside Fine 
Arts.
Designed for Living
Classes "Designed for Living” 
are now being offered by the 
YM&yWCA at 315 S. Belleficld 
Avenue. Courses offered are in 
art, dancing, literature, language, 
English, chess, bridge, and writ-
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Lesro Folk Guitar
Fred Albitz — Featured at the Casbahand y many other Pittsburgh spots _and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood — is giving folk guitar lessons at The Peter Hughes School of Music.
Fifth St Neville — newly furnished apartment. Also two bedroom apartment available immediate occupancy. Parking-
CaU EM. 2-3085.
Gateway Recordings, Inc.
presents
LIVE RECORDING SESSION
AND CONCERT
starring the outstanding
WALT HARPER QUINTET
Carnegie Lecture Hall, Sat., April 4, 1964, 8:30 p.m.
Tickcts — $1.75 — $2.00 Night of session. Price includes coupon for free 
concert recording redeemable at all National Record Marts. Tickets available 
at all National Record Marts, Lomakins, Hadden Hall, and at the University 
of Pittsburgh Book Store.
PUT IT THERE, PARDNER!
Yup, put yourself in a pair of them there dungarees and 
you'll look like you just stepped out of “Gunsmoke”. 
Tailored by h.i.s of the toughest fabrics around these 
parts (or anywhere else) these pants are an up-dated, 
skinned-down version of the ever-lovin’ dungaree. Wear 
’em slung way down on yer hips; they got belt loops but 
there’s nary a cuff in sight. Jest name your favorite 
color, we got it ... . $4.98.
»
dTnarli Mmzt
Traditional Apparel /or Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill \
Phone 521-7600
Op«» Ti«al»r and Tbsndir evening« «nUI $:M

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 18, 1*64 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pi*e 3
The Delphic Oracle
Graduate assistantships at Car­
negie Tech were awarded to Alpha 
Tau Omega’s John Kimball and 
Joe Hartman, who also received 
one at North Carolina State. Bob 
. Roberts was granted assistantships 
al Berkeley and Wisconsin while 
Bob Mercer received offers from 
John Hopkins and Illinois. Junior 
Woody Whitlatch has been elected 
to Phi Kappa Phi, a national 
scholastic honorary.
In an informal after-dinner dis­
cussion with Beta Sigma Rho fra 
^ y ternity on March 2, Dr. Robert 
p* Morgan» of the Bureau of Mea­
surement and Guidance, talked 
about many problems of the col­
lege student. Topics ranged from 
admission to Carnegie Tech and 
predicted factor, to religion, fra­
ternities, and sex and the college 
student.
Dr. Morgan intimated to the 
group that College Boards and 
rank in graduating class are fac- 
-y tors primarily used in selecting 
students for Tech. He stated that 
the faculty recognized that many 
students want an education with 
more liberal arts courses and they 
hope to move in this direction in 
the near future. The fraternities 
need to be more aware of the type 
oi student entering Tech and its 
goals.
Dr. Morgan noted, in response to
ed, launching a new alumni pro­gram.
At 3:15 a.m. Morewood Gardens 
heard a serenade by the brothers 
who braved the rain with only 
two umbrellas. Even the Security 
Police failed to dissuade them 
from conducting the early morn­
ing concert.
Herbie is gone!
(Herbie was a mongrel who 
adopted the Tau Delts at the be­
ginning of the year. We think they 
are glad he’s gone.) —Ed.
Last Saturday the members of 
Delta Gamma sorority and local 
alumnae celebrated Founders Day. 
A luncheon and ceremony were 
held at the College Club of Pitts­
burgh. Mrs. ¿farcia Strickland, 
third national vice president, 
spoke at the gathering. This cele­
bration marked the ninety-first 
anniversary of Delta Gamma, and 
also; the twentieth year sincé the 
founding of the. Beta Nu chapter 
here at Carnegie Tech.
The following day a tèa was 
held in the Highlander Room in 
honor of Mrs. Strickland.
Enter Hungry
Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s one
hundred and eighth birthday was 
ushered in with Founder’s Day 
festivities at the University Club, 
March 6. Roy E. Miller, prominent 
national officer for SAE, spoke to 
brothers assembled from both Pitt 
, . , ,, i and Tech campuses. Pitt and Techquestion, that todays college , chap(crs then joined hands t0 cele_
brate the occasion with a joint 
party at Tech’s SAE house that night.
Sunday saw the brothers treated 
to a home-cooked meal by the 
mothers of the brothers living in 
the Pittsburgh vicinity.
In sports, the SAE “J” team 
pulled into a three-way tie for 
first place in the jag basketball 
league by defeating the Killers, 
62-27.
Dinner and songs highlighted 
the March 10 dinner, as Tri-Delta 
pledges visited the SAE house.
^ student seems more and more de­
tached from religion. The effect 
is a feeling by many students that 
liie is “worthless” and “meaning­
less*’ and that nothing makes any 
difference.
This was the first in a discussion 
series called “Omnibus” to be fea- 
lured at Beta Sigma Rho.
Last Saturday evening, March 
_ 7? the brothers and pledges of Pi 
i-J£ Kappa Alpha joined forces with 
the PKA chapter at Pitt and 
alumni to celebrate its Founders 
Day with a dinner at the Park 
Row Restaurant. PKA was found­
ed March 1, 1868 at the. University 
oi Virginia.
Tau Delta Phi's Jon Bovofsky,
a senior in sculpture, won the 
Westmoreland County Museum of 
^ Art Purchase Award for his weld 
ed steel sculpture called “Un­
known Marker," displayed at the 
Annual Exhibition of the Asso­
ciated Artists of Pittsburgh.
The Tri-Delta pledges were the 
guests of the Tau Delts for dinner, 
Thursday, March 5.
The Tau Delts celebrated voci­
ferously Saturday evening with a 
late southern-style fried chicken 
dinner; thirty-live alumni attend-
READ
M. W. Motors Publication 
BEETLE TALK
for people who drive Volks­wagens and those who should. It features information about the Volkswagens, tips and help­ful hints for Volkswagen own­ers, and contests with valuable prizes. To get on the mailing list, write your name and ad­dress on a post card and mail it with your request to M. W. Motors, Pittsburgh's leading Factory Authorized Volks­wagen Dealer. No charge, of course.
Today's Best Buy 
'57 Volkswagen Sedan
l-ully Equipped, Excellent Condition
$695
M. W. MOTORS
Î31 Butler SI. Route 8, Etna
Pittsburgh, 23
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
UMOC
is
IMMINENT
by Leslie Bucliman
The Gazebo — There are only 
two Gazebos I know of; one is 
Roslyn, N. Y., about which, a play 
was written (entitled The Gazebo) 
and one in Shadyside about which 
this article is being writen. The 
two are slightly different because 
the one in Shadyside is a new 
combination bakery, delicatessen, 
and restaurant, (as they put it:
“A 3 Act Fantassy”), and the one 
in Roslyn is a real summer garden 
house.
The Gazebo (from now on we 
refer to the one in Shadyside) 
fits in perfectly with the quaint 
charm of much of the rest of 
Shadyside. The . 1890’s effect is 
heightened by gas lamps, old Val­
entines on black velvet on the 
walls, and wooden booths festoon­
ed with gingerbread carving, each 
named after .a flower. (Much of 
the wood, now refinished, was 
once part of someone’s porch in 
East Liberty, which was removed 
as part of that area's redevelop­
ment program. The curious wood­
en canopy above the delicatessen 
counter was once thé top of a 
four poster bed.)
The specialty appears to be 
sandwiches of various combina­
tions, though some dinners are 
served. The food is good and one has a large choice of pastries for 
dessert, all of which are baked on 
the premises. The prices are aver­
age to slightly high, and the ser- | 
vice is only fair, but I am in­
formed that this is because every­
thing is new and- things haven’t 
quite settled down yet. It’s gp- 
with-the-boys, or girls, or take- 
a-date if you’re out for lunch or 
an after-the-movie snack. ,A sug­
gestion: Buy your dinner at the 
bakery and delicatesen counters 
and have a picnic in the park oi 
on thet.river once the flood stops,
Tlie Colonade Cafe is the haunt 
of every lawyer in Pittsburgh 
The food is so unbelievably good 
that one wonders how the prices
can be so low, but delicious roast 
beef and ham, with soups, salads 
and a large selection o£ deserts 
are offered every day from 7:40 
a.m. until 2:00 p.m. (the Colonade 
is open only for lunch and break­
fast). In the lower floor of the 
Union Trust Building, one-half 
block from Kaufmann’s, the very 
pleasant subdued atmosphere, with a separate Toom for smokers,, is 
well seasoned with grey flannel suits, but a tired shopper often 
enjoys a bite under the small 
shaded lights. A meal here of the 
most extravagant tastes need 
never be over $1-$1.50, because 
the fare is simple, without elab­
orately disguising sauces and gravies, (although these are avail­
able); the selection would be ideal for diteters, if only the pies and 
cakes weren’t so good.
The Flame—like the Colonade, 
is a cafeteria. It is, however, very 
unlike Morewood or Skibo be­
cause thè specialties are steak 
and lobster. You walk in, pick up 
your tray, and follow the line. 
Where else can you pick out your i 
piece of steak, and watch while it I 
is charcoal broiled to please your I 
taste exactly? As you continue!
along the line you can picjj up 
baked potatoes with chive and 
sour cream dressing, rolls or gar­
lic bread, salads with a variety 
of dressing, soft drinks and des­
sert. The price is amazingly low, 
only $1,19 for steak and -£1.39 
for lobster. For a slight fee you 
can also get a waiter to tarry 
your heavily laden tray to au 
empty table. If you’re looking 
for soft lights and music then 
this is not the place; but if you 
and your date are looking for 
good food and are interested in 
blazing new trails to the dinner 
table thpn this is the place.
Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass Company
Chemical Division
INTERVIEW DATE: 
Friday, March 20.
Opportunities available in six plants: Barberton. Ohio, New Martinsville. \V. Vn., Lake “Charles, La.. Corpus Christi, Texas. Bartlett. Calif., and Beauharnois, Qucbcc. Canada.
Soda. Anhydrous Ammonia. Titaniu Tetrachloride. Barium, and otlie chlorinated products.
plant layout, and standard procedure opportunities open lor men in these categories:
SEEMILLER’S 
LUNCHEONETTE & 
DELICATESSEN
Complete short order 
food service 
Snacks and fountain 
delights 
Both here and there 
Corner Forbes Ave. and Craig St.Open -til 11:00 p.m. 682-9891
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
• MUSTARD o RELISH• ONION• PICKLE
« MAYONNAISE• SAUERKRAUT• CHILE• KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDKR
621-7388682-8466
OHKLÄMD ORIGINAL 
PIZZR BHÙP
HS.MBUMGSR 15c — PIZZA (ger eut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ÄLL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDKR
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET621-7339 —682-8466
SVÎan, the stampede’s on for
IGFF
Hop to It, meet the new "Brass Ringer," it really gets around. It’s clean and lean. With man*size brass eyelets and wraparound toe: guard. Long oh looks, strong on comfort, great on wear. Made ofj washable cotton duck in a new smoky white chino, also In white.j Medium width, sizes 5 to 12, 13, 14/>Stampede on‘down to your nearest store' end let 'em rustle y’ up a pair. Ask for "Brass Ringer" Keds® today! It'sW V»- v* •>•¦<!' W- J, '
United States RubberRockefeller C«nt«r, New York 20, New Yftrft '

---------------------------------------------------

Paire 4 — CAENEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. March IS, 19C4
editorial
Parking and Other Problems
Students grumble every time the Pitts­
burgh Police tow cars away from the no­
parking area around the men’s dormitories 
(see letter this page). Apparently they prefer 
to take their chances getting a ticket from 
the city police than risk a school fine for an 
expired meter in the Skibo lot. They realize 
that the city police couldn’t be half as effi­
cient in checking parking meters and no­
parking zones as our own security force.
Having one’s car towed away is an expen­
sive turn of fate. -The auto is stored at 29th 
Street and Liberty. The cost of reclaiming it 
includes a towing fee ($12.00), a storage fee 
($1.00 per day), and of course the original 
parking fine ($5.00). Coupled with this ex­
pense is the time wasted appearing in traffic 
court to claim the car.
We doubt that towing away keeps stu­
dents from parking in those areas. It may 
prevent those students who have experienced 
this punishment from parking there again, 
but many other students are in line to take 
the spaces that were not filled.
Perhaps if the school, which has a much 
closer and tighter hold over the students than 
the city of Pittsburgh, issued their own 
tickets for street parking, the problem would 
be solved. Everyone knows how regularly 
Carnegie Tech policeman check the parking 
areas. No student would take the chance 
that the campus police might miss a day.
A motion that would save graduating 
seniors $2.75 from the cost of buying a year 
book, by requiring all of them to purchase 
one, was again defeated by Student. Con­
gress. The only argument raised against the 
motion was that Student Congress had to 
protect the minority rights of those who did 
not want to buy one. We wonder what kind 
of minority they are protecting. What type of 
person would spend much over the $6000 in 
tuition costs to spend four years here at 
Carnegie Tech, and not purchase a memento 
of their undergraduate education except their 
text books. It is the same type of person who
Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
The Deputy
But after a while, Congress cut off debate. 
The members should be less hasty in refusing 
to hear the opinions of others if they are so 
anxious to have others attend their meetings. 
* * * *
Although the school allowed construction 
equipment to be parking on the I. M. field, 
we’re sure that they never intended for the 
equipment to remain this long. With the soft­
ball season drawing near, we can imagine a. 
frustrated captain explaining to. his team, 
“All right men, here’s the diamond: the bull-
The play, The Deputy*, has created controversy wher­
ever it has been performed. The theme behind this play 
is that Pope Pius XII did not do all he could have to aid 
Jews against Nazi persecution. Criticisms have centered on 
this assertion. This article will discuss it, and related ones, 
but will not refer specifically to the play itself.
Pope Pius maintained relations with the Nazis through­
out the period Rome was occupied. He made weak protests, 
and evidence indicates he helped Rome’s Jewish community, 
but Nazis were not excommunicated, and the Pope clearly 
did not demand that the extermination be stopped; priests 
were not told to resist the regime; the Pope did not issue 
alarms and statements; in general, he did not use power of 
his office to the extent he could have.
But there is another side. If the Pope had protested, 
the Germans would not have changed their policy, but 
would have taken harsh measures against Catholics; nothing 
would have been gained (so the argument goes). Pope Pius 
chose to compromise his moral convictions to do greater 
good in the long run. Also, the Pope and other leaders were 
in physical danger; the Catholic church must continue to 
function (even if the Pope himself is willing to be sacri­
ficed) .
Why is this blame being concentrated on Pope Pius? 
Did the allies refuse to bomb concentration camps? Did 
the Allied powers “play down” information they received? 
Did partisans in the occupied countries help the Nazis at 
times? Did Jews in free countries show too little concern? 
All these questions are answered affirmatively; but this 
does not lessen the Pope’s guilt. The Pope is supposed to be 
morally better than the average man. His life is dedicated 
to acting as a moral and spiritual symbol and guide — and 
he influences the thoughts and actions of millions of persons. 
The fact that other men made similar errors does not excuse 
the Pope.
Pope Pius decided that it was better to work through 
“channels” rather than publicly resist the Nazis. He abdi­
cated his moral leadership of Catholics by not telling them 
what.was "right” and what was “wrong.” Perhaps he ac­
complished more this way, but the immensity of the tragedy 
seems to point to another answer: The Pope took the easy 
way out. He did not do all that was possible to prevent the 
mass murder of 6 million persons. Of Course he opposed it. 
In his way he acted like the non-Nazi German who went 
along with the regime while protesting his innocence; but 
Pope Pius XIII was leader of the Roman Catholic church.
^CARNEGIE
TARTA
— Photo by Miron Strai
will, for four years, refuse to buy a Technical, 
participatë in an activity, or attend a basket­
ball or football game.
This editor has seen many students who 
fit this description. If one purpose of Student 
Congress is to coordinate and help thb myriad 
student activities, they should support our 
nationally-recognized yearbook by giving it 
more prestige here on campus.
This paper carried an article to invite in­
terested students to speak Ion the motion,
Readers Write
— Photo by A. Huffman
dozer’s first base, the steam shovel’s second, 
the tractor’s third, and the road grader’s 
höme plate.”
* * * *
I Pictures displayed: in Skibo lobby show 
the beautiful architectural design of many 
other college earr>puses. What was the reason 
to show them to the students of Carnegie 
Tech? It can only make then» wonder why 
we don’t have a .picturesque new dormitory 
to brag about. ; M. L. S.
Low Pay, Towing Cars Rouse Ire
Employees Not 
Well Paid
Editor, The Tartan:
WHAT DOES CIT DO WITH 
THAT $725 THEY GET FROM 
EVERY STUDENT EACH SE­
MESTER?
That’s a good question. I can 
tell you just what they don’t do 
with it. I’d call it:
MALPRACTICE IN THE PAY- 
DLL DEPARTMENT!
A secretary on campus has ac­
curately estimated her pay and 
found that if she works for CIT 
the rest of this year she will have 
worked one and one-half days 
for which she u?as not paid. Is 
Carnegie Tech above reproach? It 
seems to me the students, em­
ployees, and administrators alike 
would benefit from a detailed 
analysis of the Financial Dealings 
of thisyinstitution.
Daryl C. Kemerer 
Senior — Music
Security Accused 
Of Towing Cars
Editor, The Tartan:
This letter is an open challenge 
to W. Dwayne Young, the lack­
luster leader of the Carnegie Tech 
Gestapo. Tell us, Mr. Young, In 
just what way does the school 
benefit by the presence of the 
security force? In recent weeks 
the most apparent so-called bene- 
(continued on page 5)
Editor in-Cliief.......................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ..................................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ..................................... A1 Pollock
Business Manager..............................Michael McCoy
News Editor ........................................ Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor ..............................Alma Rock
Features Editor ......................................Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick /
Layout Editor ........................................Drew Lippay / ,
Copy Editor .....................................i.. Clarita Dzatko ;
Advertising Manager ..........................Eric Feldmann
Secretary Editor....................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .........................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate 22.50 'Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. Offices: Skibo, Room 50, torbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager; MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9079. Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Advisory Board: John Blue, Frank Brady, Charles Ho Fook, Annie Moser, Margl* Park, Peggy Riva, Martha Siegel.
Sews Staff: Bob Fritz, Bob Criscom, Elissa Parker, Gretchen Smith, Bob Wohlford.Re-Write Staff: Sara Cromlcy, Mark Ferdman, Callie Gilleland, Morris Gold­stein, Janet Westover.
Features Staff: Susan Attinson, Leslie Buchman, Becky Emerson, Miriam Gillespie, Jane Keeler, Marian Mulligan, Karen Mihm, Sharon Shuitleworth, Nancy Cameron.
6porls Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bldula, Dick Elder, A1 Green, Bill Hartlep, Chri» Macosko.
BasinesE Staff: Eric Feldman, George Merriman. Dick Moore.
Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely Phllofsky, Ted 
Pierce, Barbara Thorton, Marylu Recco, Bruce McDonald, Sharon Shuttleworth.
Copy Staff: Helen Beatty, Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Nancy Green, Mike Greenawalt, Verna Ream. Ginny Salko, Ginny Ulies, Lorraine Vinograd.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarlan. Beth Carten, Junls Cummings, Pat Hartman, Carol Kamell, Karen Kutncr, Leslie McKinley, Maiy Stoll, Lorraine Vino­grad, Carol Young.
Circulation staff: George Kail. J. E. MUler, Tom Chamberlin.Photo Staff: Tom Clements, Jim Pawley, Joe O'Connor, Johns Oslaa, Howard Schwartz,

---------------------------------------------------

«MMritr, Nank 11. INI - CARNEGIE TARTAN — Fat« S
r- ¦ - --------
Your Man
In Congress
By Martha Hodgson
_ After committee reports were presented, Congress de­
feated again the motion to “add seven dollars to graduation 
fees to cover the cost of a yearbook, a senior portrait sitting 
fee, and yearbook mailing costs.” This measure would have 
saved every senior $2.75, saved about 60 seniors the frustra­
tion of not having a yearbook when they decide they want 
one after graduation, and saved the Thistle all the anxiety 
of whether or not they will sell enough yearbooks to break 
even, but Congress defended the rights of the small minority 
(8%) who do not wish to buy a Thistle at all. Perhaps Tod 
Johnson’s refusal to accept any type of compromise situation 
jh- making the plan optional — was in part responsible for 
I the failure of the motion. The Thistle was attempting primar- 
! ily to remedy the situation that occurs each year, i.e., about 
j 60 seniors call Dr. Strick, the Alumni Office or The Thistle 
i Office and ask if it would be possible to purchase a Thistle,
| sometimes offering $10 or more, and secondarily, of course,
] to guarantee a minimum of 600 yearbooks bought. The quality 
I of the 1964 Thistle was brought up; Tod emphasized the fact 
j that, under this policy, it might be possible to improve thè 
| Thistle with perhaps color photography, but the rights of 
i the minority to impose its will upon the majority were de- 
j »nded.
! Bob Hawkins’ rather anticlimatic motion to change Fall
I Festival back to Homecoming was passed; arrangements for 
| this move, however, anticipating Congress’ approval, have 
j been going on for some time.
j The Tech Committee was 'officially made an external
\ committee of Congress, which means that it may draw its 
! members from Congress nonmembers, and the chair is select- 
| ed by Executive Council or voted on by the committee not 
^appointed by the Congress Chairman.
! Bob Hawkins presented a motion to create an adjutant
I in the Student Court to subpoena witnesses and gather evi- 
i dence, and to retain more experience among the judges by 
| shifting election in May and January to 4 and 3, judges 
! replaced, respectively. Bob is very concerned with the prob- 
; lems in the Constitution which merit reform; two other 
! motions were presented by him which will be voted upon at 
the next meeting. .
| Five new positions were approved by Congress: Fred
i «¿Welter as Elections Chairman, Tim Hiss as Publicity Chair- 
¡"man; Kieth Pierce as Homecoming Chairman, and Tom 
! Glassberg and Joe Bowman, as student court judges.
Joe Sandulli’s long-discussed leadership conference has 
i materialized on paper. The project, aimed at encouraging 
| campus leaders, especially in activities, should provoke some 
significant results.
The final motion to sponsor a drive for funds for the 
JFK Memorial Library, was defeated; it was stated in the 
meeting that the library was to be built in Boston, where it 
Jwould be of little use to any of CIT’s students; and, as was 
eloquently pointed out at the meeting, the rush to do the late 
president honor has resulted in a weird hierarchy of memor­
ials of insignificantly little value, either memorially or prac­
tically. It was quite inevitable that this Motion would be 
defeated, anyway; how fortunate it is that we have Campus 
Chest and its campaign promises for a scapegoat.
The meeting was adjourned.
Readers Write
Security Accused
(continued from page 4) 
fit has been the wanton removal 
of parked cars from the Carnegie 
Tech campus. To us the reason 
for this seems clear. Formerly 
legal parking areas have been de­
clared illegal, e.g., lower Frew 
Street, Margaret Morrison Street, 
etc., and cars parked in these 
newly formed illegal areas are now towed away. For what other 
reason than to force the use of 
the metered Skibo lot would this 
be done? For those not familiar 
with parking regulations, we has­
ten to say that the extreme pen­
alty of towing is seldom if ever 
invoked without an explicit re­
quest from outside the police de­
partment. The usual penalty , for 
parking on a yellow line is a 
ticket. Who could be making these 
requests? This, Mr. Young, is 
something the students of Car­
negie Tech can do without;
Paul Carlson, Senior - EE
Jay Smith, Senior - EE
Tech to Offer 
Summer Study
Carnegie Tech’s, forty-sixth 
Summer Session offers a variety 
of courses for students, profes­
sional workers, and teachers. Pre­
college students have i.the oppor­
tunity of discovering whether 
they are capable of college level 
work. Other students can gain 
advanced credit, conquer defi­
ciencies, and begin the process 
of obtaining higher degrees.
Courses durate -from three to 
eight weeks depending on the 
course. AU classes are conducted 
in accordance with Carnegie 
Tech’s “Plan: for Professional Ed­
ucation.” Small classes allow the 
college’s staff to give personal at­
tention to each student.
Courses are offered in archi­
tecture, drama, graphic arts, mu­
sic, design, sculpture, home eco­
nomics, engineering and science, 
and the general curriculum. In­
formation and application forms 
may be secured from the Direc­
tor of Admissions, Carnegie Tech, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.
-ARROW-
DECT0N
won’t give you the 
right time of day
This remarkable shirt retains 
its crisp, just-ironed look 
all day long because it’s 
65% Dacron* and 
35% cotton...the ideal 
wash and wear blend 
that made “Look, Ma— 
no wrinkles” a famous 
campus expression. 
Tailored with the popular 
Sussex button-down 
collar in true Ivy fashion 
and tapered to trim you 
in every way except price.
DuPont R.T.M.
Long sleeves—only $6.95 
Short sleeves—only $5.95
This Week In Pittsburgh
MUSIC
Brass' Chamber Recital, J.S. Bach and moderns, March 19, 
8:00 p.m., Exhibition Hall, College of Fine Arts, P. 
Catelinet conductor, (Punch Card Concert)
Recital, March 20, 8:30 p.m., Exhibition Hall, CFA,
¦ Henry Lowenger, piano, (PCC)
Composers Forum, March 21, 3:00, Carnegie Hall, Roland 
Leich, (PCC)
v O. Partos, “Yiskor,” and Handel, “Ode to St. Cecilia’s 
Day,” Moshe Amitay, Solo 'Cellist and chorus,
March 22, 8:30 p.m., Fine Arts Theater, Sidney 
Harth, director, (PCC)
Carnegie Concerts, March 25, 8:30 p.m., Sidney Harth, 
Violin, Nelson Whitaker, piano, (PCC)
Y Music Society, March 18, 8:40, Civic Center, Nathan 
Milsteih, Violin 
Music for Mt. Lebanon, March 19, 8:30 p.m., Mt. Lebanon 
High School Auditorium, Anna Moffo, Soprano 
-Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, March 23, 8:30 p.m., 
Syria Mosque, Jan Peerce, tenor soloist 
Music Guild, March 24, 8:30 p.m., Memorial Hall, Fred 
Waring and the Pennsylvanians
LECTURE
Physical Group of the American Chemical Society, 
March 23, 8:00 p.m., PH 100 
“Harnessing Human Energies,” the Books of Ruth 
and Esther, March 18, 8:30 p.m., 327 N. Negley Avenue, 
Rabbi Kenneth D. Bromberg 
“Mastering Our Moods,” The Book of Psalms, March 25, 
8:30 p.m. Rabbi Edmund Neiss 
“Goodbye Columbus,” March 18, 1:30, Irene Kaufman 
Center, one of a series on Paperbacks and Modern 
Literature by Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein 
“The Self-Reliant Man and Friedrich Nietzsche,” March 
18, 8:15 p.m., YM&WHA, one of a series of Psychoan­
alysis and Existentialism: The Meeting of the Ways, 
by Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein 
Engineering Design Seminar, “Products: Their Shape 
and Structure,” March 19, 4:00 p.m., visiting lecturer 
Mr. Rui Bonsiepe
DRAMA
“Cecile, or The School for Fathers,” March 19, 3:15 
p.m., March 20, 10:00 p.m.. First Unitarian Church of . 
Pittsburgh, members of Drama Department performing 
“The Coach with the Six Insides.” March 18, 8:30 p.m. . 
Carnegie Music Hall
MOVIES
"A Midsummer Night’s Dream,’.’ (1961), Film Arts, 
March 20, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 p.m., PH 100, Jiri Trnka.
Oil paintings by R. B. Beaman, continuing through 
April 3, Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine. Arts.
Debate, “Resolved: That we should not support the 
Supreme Court’s desegregation. ruling,” tonight, 8:00 
p.m., Rockwell Hall, Duquesne University.
Making plans for spring vacation?
The home folks would love to know what you 
have in mind. Call them now—the holiday will 
be a lot more enjoyable if they know when to 
expect you and what you’ll be doing.

---------------------------------------------------

Pace 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March IS, 1964
Film Close-Up
“The Easy Life”
by Stillwater Pierce
This Italian import sneaked into the United States about 
a month ago, lingered awhile, and then was suddenly thrust 
into prominence when corn-stuffed critics discovered it, ap­
plauded, and urged their readers not to miss this “upper 
class ‘La Dolce Vita’.” Several magazines, among them News­
week, declared it “one of the year’s ten best,” which doesn’t 
say much much for the other nine. In short, these critics’ 
adulation results primarily from amnesia, for sevéral years 
ago another movie treated the same theme with far more 
insight and vitality. That film, “The Cousins,” came from 
French nouvelle vague director Charles Chabrol. Both “The 
Cousins” and “The Easy Life” are dedicated to this proposi­
tion: in our big slick world we have Winners and Losers 
Winners always win, somehow Losers' always manage to 
lose.
Director Dino Risi is basically a Loser; however, he is 
wise enough to incorporate the services of several winning 
actors, especially Vittorio Gassman in the lead. Gassman 
plays Bruno, an Existentialist’s dream, who is 35, divorced, 
care-free, alone, irresponsible, and who lives solely for the 
moment. He spreads the better part of his life behind the 
wheel of his sports car, tooling up one-way streets, shag­
ging women, cursing at other drivers, and, as the directors 
would wish us to believe, avoiding life’s unpleasantries.
As the film opens Bruno meets a young law student — 
The Loser — whom he cajoles into joining him for a trip 
to the country. Wé spend the next two hours examining the 
Loser’s initiation into Gassman’s chaotic world, where noth­
ing has meaning unless it stimulates or satisfies some primi­
tive appetite.
Director Risi has the right idea, although he doesn’t 
exploit and dramatize it enough; there is something quite 
fascinatins in a Bruno-type hero. His audacity is topped only 
by his sangfroid. He floats through society with a grace and 
ease that really defies analysis. The law student continu­
ally asks himself why he doesn’t leave, since Bruno is toss­
ing away most of his money. The reason that he stays, of 
course, is that Bruno possesses a magnetic pull.
In the film’s best sequence, we follow Gassman and his 
young friend on a trip to the latter’s relatives. The losing 
law student has been raised in this home and has been 
away for several years. But strangely enough, after a brief 
hello, it is Bruno — the complete stranger — who becomes 
the center of attention; the law student is cast off, ignored, 
while Bruno seduces the entire household with his wifming 
smile and jovial conversation.
Unfortunately, however, Risi never varies h i s theme. 
We gradually discover that Bruno, adrift without anchor, is 
a sad, lonely man, and that he needs the younger man’s 
friendship. Once we have understood this, we are ready to 
go home, but “The Easy Life” is only half over, and is about 
to repeat itself for another hour or so.
WALLYS
Campus-Favored
MEN
HUSH-PUPPJES
LOAFERSWELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSKEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
nH FH DTYF
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
LEWIS
FeltP C Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS KiGK FIDELITY TELEVISION RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
TYPING
FAST O EFFICIENT 
• REASONABLE 9
Term Papers — Theses — Dis­sertations — Punctuations — Spelling — Grammar Correct-
* AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
MAK£ THIS FAMOUS YMCA YOUR HOME^
eonvenient.to the World’s Fair, theatres, Ml 
shops, cultural activities. For young men 111 
and groups. All facilities in 
building-laundry, cafeteria . 
and coffee shop, barber, TV 
room, newsstand and tailor, „'f 
Rates: $3, $3.10, $4.50 : /' 
Single; $4.70, $5.10 Double vJ 
Free tours and programs.
WELCOME
TONEW YOltK
AND THEWORLD'Smm
&ILLIAM SLOANE 
HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
356 West 34th St. (nr Ninth Ave.) (“SHIÎ 
New Torte, N.r. Phone: Oxford 5-5133 {,
(One Block f
Don't Knock 
UMOC, Mac; 
Save Your 2*
(continued from page 1)
is possible). The mug will hold 
three litres of any potion 
enough to keep UMOC ugly all 
year. The Ugly Man’s name and 
that of his sponsoring organiza­
tion will appear on the “Ugly 
Mug.”
All groups are asked to enter 
now! Send the name of your or­
ganization and candidate to 
UMOC, c/o Alpha Phi Omega, 
Box 282, Campus Mail. The dead­
line is March 25. Support your 
favorite ogre and Campus Chest 
through UMOC.
Hey UMAC. It’s UMOC time!
Dr. J. A. Pople Begins Duties As 
Professor of Chemical Physics
Dr. John A. Pople, one of the 
world’s leading chemical physi­
cists, has arrived from England to 
begin his duties as Carnegie Pro­
fessor of Chemical Physics at Car­
negie Tech. In addition, Dr. Pople 
is an Adjunct Senior Fellow at 
Mellon Institute.
“Dr. Pople is an outstanding ex­
ample of the leading scientific 
‘brains’ which we hope to attract 
to Carnegie Tech and to Pitts­
burgh/’ said Dr. John C. Warner, 
president of Carnegie Tech.
“He is universally recognized as 
one of the world’s leading chemi­
cal physicists and has achieved 
this position on the basis of the 
originality and volume of his. re­
search and written contributions 
in this area. His addition to our 
faculty brings more recognition to 
the great effort being, expended 
by the city in support of science/', 
added Dr. Warner.
Dr. Pople was at Carnegie Tech 
as a Ford Visiting Professor of 
Chemistry during the 1961-62 aca­
demic year. In 1961, he received
the Marlow Medal of the Faraday Society.
Dr. Pople is the author of more 
than 70 articles, many of which 
are recognized .as classics in his 
field. Just recently he completed 
a book, High Resolution Nuclear 
Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy, 
published by McGraw Hill. He is 
a graduate of Trinity College, 
Cambridge, Physical Laboratory, Teddington, England.
The Largest Sefecfion of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos — in Me City
UIhGI UOE1
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
New Chevelle Malibu Sport Coupe (115-in. wheelbase)
*64 Corvette Sting Ray Sport Coupe (98-in. wheelbase)
Chevrolet will go to any length 
to make you happy
Things have changed a lot since a Chevy 
was only a Chevy. Especially your ideas 
of what you want a Chevy to be.
So now you have the Jet-smooth Chev­
rolet—173^ feet of pure luxury, bumper 
to bumper. The size makes it a luxury car. But not the price.
Or you can choose the thrifty Chevy II, 
a 15i^-foot family car with all kinds of 
passenger and luggage space.
This year, your choice might be 
the new 16-foot-plus Chevelle, 
sized to fit nicely between Chev-
rolet and Chevy II (and between parking 
meters, with five whole feet left over).
Then, too, there’s the sporty 15-foot 
Corvair, so right for so many people (you 
girls, in particular) that we’ve never touched an inch of it. And finally, Cor­
vette-still 14J/£ feet and still too much 
for any true sports-car lover to say no to.
The long and short of it is, you don’t 
have to go to any length to find exactly 
the kind of car you want. Just see the five different lines of cars 
at your Chevrolet dealer’s.
THE GREAT HIGH&AY PERFORMERS Chevrolet • Chevelle »Chevy II • Corvair * Corvette
See them at your Chevrolet Showroom. <

---------------------------------------------------

Vcinaiv, Durch 1«, IM« — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Tut J
peace Corps 
Seeks Students
peace Corps officials repoit that 
there is still time for collegi n- 
jors to enter training thjis - 
mer. Applications filed as late as 
June 1 can be processed in limo 
•y entrance into one of the 
training programs beginning in 
middle and late summer. It i; 
bcncftcial, however, to have the 
application in as soon as possible.
In addition to turning ;n a 
completed questionnaire, an ap- 
I plicant must take the Peace 
Coips Placement Test. These ap­
titude tests will be administered 
r?post offices in principal cities 
throughout the United States on 
April 11 and May 9. Interested 
seniors may also ask their col­
lege Peace Corps liaison about 
tests being given on college cam­
puses in April. Peace Corps of­
ficials emphasize that this is a 
non-competitive test, with no 
passing or failing grades.
^This summer the Corps hopes 
to train as many as C.000 men 
and women at approximately 55 
colleges and universities through­
out the country.
Graduation Fee
Payment Due/y J
p All Bachelor, Master, and Doc­
tor degree candidates are remind­
ed that the graduation fee of 
SI0.00 per degree is charged to 
each candidate for graduation. 
This fee must be paid by April 
I, 1ÛG4. Checks should be made 
payable to Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and mailed to the 
Registrar’s Office.
^ To pay this fee in person, can- 
aidâtes should first come to the 
Registrar’s Office, AH 145, for the 
necessary cards for the Cashier’s Office.
4 Greeks Take Runner-up Spots For Sing
Beta Theta Pi, Second Place
— Photos by Bon ChelliiSigma Nu, Third Place
John Rayne 
Appointed
John A. Rayne has been ap­
pointed an associate professor of 
physics in the College of Engi­
neering and Science at Carnegie 'loch.
Dr. Rayne, a native of Sydney, 
Australia, received his B.S. from 
'lie University of Sydney, and his 
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the 
University of Chicago. He was a 
scicntific officer with the Com­
monwealth Scientific and Indus­
trial Research Organization in 
Australia from 1954 to 1956, and 
a research engineer with the 
Wcstinghousc Electric Corporation 
bo/ore joining the Carnegie Tech faculty.
His research activity has been j chiefly in the area of the metals 
I Physics and he has written many 
JTticles for such journals as the 
I Physical Review. i
Honoraries
Name Members
Tau Beta Pi, national engineer­
ing honorary, founded to “mark ii 
a fitting manner those who have 
conferred honor upon their Alma 
Mater by distinguished scholar 
ship and exemplary character as 
undergraduate in engineering/ 
has announced the election of nine 
men selected from the upper % 
of the junior engineering class.
The new members are: David 
D’Appalonia, C.E., John Fair 
M.E., Brian Horn, Ch.E., Daniel 
Hovis, M. E.( Peter Manguarella, 
C.E., David Sharp, E.E., William 
Stover, E.E., Henry Werronen, 
E.E.
Eta Kappa Nu, national elec­
trical engineering honorary, has 
also announced the election of 
new members. Chosen on the 
basis of distinguished scholarship, 
activities, leadership, and char­
acter, they were selected from the 
upper % of the senior E.E. class 
and the upper % the junior 
E.E. class.
The new members are Seniors: 
Larry Bock, David Dodich, James 
Fritsch, Harold Hovel. Juniors: 
David Francis, Ronald Knepper, 
Dwight Means, Gerald Naditch, 
David Sharp, James Straw.
All Bachelor, Master and Doc­
tor Degree candidates are re­
minded that the graduation fee 
of $10 per degree is charged to 
each candidate for graduation.,
Scimitars Seek Top Freshmen
(continued from page 1) 
fenders, who apparently escaped 
the notice of the unbiased Scimi­tars officiating.
After World War II Freshman 
Orientation Week and the tradi­
tions exam largely • replaced haz 
ing. In the process Scimitars prov­
ed itself a recognized men's hon 
orary. Singling out active fresh­
men continues to be tine of its 
aims, but it has shifted from 
hazing to helping the new fresh­
men meet the campus, through 
Orientation Week. During the year 
Scimitars promote freshman par­
ticipation in campus life. This year 
they worked with Omicron Delta 
Kappa, the senior honorary, on a 
freshman leadership program. The 
group also lends a hand with Fall 
Festival and Spring Carnival 
weekends.
Scimitars encourages its mem­
bers to continue developing per­
sonal leadership potential. The 
present 17 sophomores have in­
creased their contact in all areas 
of campus life; several have mov­
ed into major positions. Bill Bur­
dette, Steve Easley, Dick Elder, 
Bob Fritz, Dale Johnson, Chris 
Macosko (Scimitar president), 
Dick Morrison, and Pete Ricar- 
della maintain Scimitar standing 
in varsity and junior varsity 
sports. Joe Bowman, Jay Earley, 
Tom Glassberg (vice president), 
and Bob Wohlford round out re­
presentation in intramurals. In 
publications two Scimitars hold 
down editorships: Tod Johnson, 
the Thistle, and Chris Macosko, 
the Technical. Johnson's staff in­
cludes Advertising Manager Glass­
berg, Assistant Sports Editor Mor­
rison, and Elder. Fritz, Elder,
B'NAI B'fSITH HILLEL FOUNDATION
AT THEUNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTAN AIL - UNIVERSITYmGFFOrTI FTYTI
WILL BE HELD
FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 27, 1964
SUBSCRIPTION: $4.00 Hillel Members; $5.00 Non-members
DEADLINE FOR SUBSCRIPTION FRIDAY, MARCH 20
PLEASE APPLY, SECRETARY, B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION, 
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVE., 621-8876
Glassberg arîd Macosko also con­
tribute to the Tartan. Student 
Congress calls on the services of 
committee heads Elder, General 
Campus; Glassberg, Campus 
Chest; and Macosko, Orientation 
Week. Present Student Court Jus­
tices include Bowman and Glass­berg.
On the stage for Scotch *n’ Soda, 
is Burdette while Wally Block 
works . the crew backstage. Guy 
Bradley and Ron Lupish swirl
kilts and pipes during the football 
season. Both, along with Elder, 
serve as officers in Alpha Phi. 
Omega. Fraternity Scimitars and 
their offices include Bowman, Pi 
Kappa Alpha assistant treasurer; 
Sigma Nu’s Burdette, Fritz, Coun­
cil of Fraternity Presidents repre­
sentative, Glassberg, secretary, and 
Wohlford; Early, Delta Tau Delta 
rush and athletic chairman; Tod 
Johnson, Tau Delta Phi secretary; 
Elder, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Life’s a picnic when you’re refreshed. 
Coca-Cola, with its cold crisp taste, 
is always just right, 
never too sweet... refreshes best.
things gObetter,!uscdy
pe«t
Pottled under the authority of The Coci-Cola Company by: '

---------------------------------------------------

>»se S — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, M»rek 11
It»blvg h$ :leeg MvVtP TNÎ, 
^ebgNvVtNd mlvB Ut»cNP
Final IM basketball gajnes were completed last week 
in a preparation for this week’s big tournament competition, 
as the basketball program nears its end. First round com­
petition began Monday with these teams paired against each 
other: Grad Eagles vs. Civil Hammers; Finks “B” vs. Dorm 
¦BTP *Trojans; Grad Physics 
“A”: SN vs. DU “A.” One team 
will be the over-all league cham­
pion at the end of these games.
Games played last week set­
tled the final team rankings in 
each league. In the Lakers 
League the Met Grads downed 
SAE 42-33 and KS edged the 
Dorm Trojans “A” 37-32. Behind 
the 31 point scoring spree of 
Clute, the Civil Hammers had lit­
tle trouble disposing of BTP “T”, 
67-39. In another lopsided vic­
tory. DU “A" defeated TDP “A” 
66-29 as Bednarz connected for 
17 points for the victors.
In Celtic League action KS 
squeaked by the Commuters 37-34 
and ATO “Lakers" defeated the 
Dunkers 42-34 with Green scoring 
19 for the winners. Finks “B” 
rolled by PKT “A” 53-31 and 
then defeated ATO “Lakers’’ 36- 28 in the playoff .for second place 
in the league. In addition,' ATO 
defeated KS 39-23 with Oliver 
scoring 19 points. BTP forfeited 
to Grad Physics.
Over in the Royals League Gr. d 
hawks got by the E.E. Grads 42- 34, SN “B” barely defeated Dorm 
Trojans “W” 32-31, and TDP “B” 
went down to defeat at the hands 
of DTD 34-20, Dorm Trojans “W” 
finished off SN “B" 39-37 and 
BSR “A” forfeited to Finks “A.”
Warriors League action proved 
exciting as the Grad Eagles 
breezed by BTP “A1' 57-41 and
Delta8elM
to 40% off
9x12 RUGS 
o.* de oW’
5432 Walnut St.Next to Shadyside Post Office 
621-1025 
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
NOW IS THE TIME ... to 
think about EASTER giving ...
The Book Store window has a 
host of gifts — appropriate and 
inexpensive . • • ask Cecelia 
about them.
We have the cards, too . ¦ ¦ 
make your selection early!
We recommend to your reading 
. . RISE AND FALL OF THE 
THIRD REICH by Shirer . . . 
FOUR DATS - THE HISTORI­
CAL RECORD OF THE 
DEATH OF PRESIDENT KEN­
NEDY ....
pHhH^H
SN “A” defeated DU “B" 39-15. 
FKA nimrocls slipped by the Dorm 
Trojans “S” 39-35 and ATO “War­
riors” edged Whales “A” 33-32.
Piston League teams battled it 
out in their final games with the 
Whales “B” gaining a win over 
the Marauders 35-26. SA£ “J” 
romped to a 62-27 victory over 
the Killers, as Moran scored 23 
points for the winners. Thè PSI 
Clods also went down to SAE “J”
48-27. ATO “Celtics" bombed the 
Killers as Root tosed in 36 big 
points in their 50-29 victory.
Tech IM Night 
Friday in Gym
Carnegie Tech’s annual Intra­
mural night will be held this Fri­
day in the gym at 7:00 p.m. The 
evening will feature the consola­
tion intramural basketball game, 
the presentation of intramural 
awards, an exhibitipn .table tennis 
match, and the 1964 intramural 
championship basketball game.
Team Takes Win 
In Final Match
Carnegie Tech’s varsity rifle 
team coasted to an easy victory 
in their final dual match of the 
season by defeating winless Cali­
fornia 1378-1253. Thè Tartan's 
low score was partially due to the 
fact that three top. shooters, Bob 
Fritz, Jim Burdick, and Rich Dam- 
berg „were participating in Greek 
Sing. In addition, there was no 
pressure at àll put on those who 
did shoot, since California aver­
ages around 1300 per match.
Phil Meyers turned in a fine 
266, his second consecutive 285+ 
performance to pace the Tartans 
¡and take first place among the in­
dividuals. Mike Knepley turned 
in his second sub-260 score of 
277, finishing second to Phil. Joe 
Schlitt shot above his everage 
again, finishing with 276. The re­
maining scorers for Carnegie were 
Scott McUormick with a 271, and 
Tuck Arnold with a 268.
Practice sessions this week have 
been in dead earnest. The NKA 
Intercollegiate séctionals are Sat­
urday, and Carnegie has a good 
chance of taking home some first 
place medals.
Three coeds working in Europe
TnIOmTGSfOUF
The trend among students is to work in Europe during the summer. Thousands of jobs (e.g. resort, lifeguard* ing and office work) and travel grants are available to every registered student. Some wages are as high as $400 a month. For a com­plete prospectus, job and travel grant applications, a $1 ASIS book coupon and handling and airmail charges send $1 to Dept. M, American Student Informa­tion Service, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxem­bourg.
BETWEEN 
OUTER SPACE
THERE’S A WIDE RANGE OF OPPORTUNITY 
IN THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
To outer space and into the deep sea, we take the sum 
total of our scientific and managerial knowledge. A case 
in point is Telstar, which represents the first step toward 
a worldwide communications system. Another example, 
the new deep-sea amplifier that simultaneously transmits 
two-way messages. Both communications triumphs stem 
from Bell System planning, research and development.
Such trailblazing projects command the best of 
managerial and scientific talent. That’s why you’ll find, 
throughout the Bell System, men with college training as 
diverse as the responsibilities they shoulder. Their back­
grounds run the gamut from liberal arts and business 
courses to science or specialized engineering majors.
Admittedly, the work is demanding. It requires that 
unusual caliber of man who finds a greater satisfaction in 
challenge than in ready solution... who is eager to see his 
education yield dividends... who wants an immediate 
opportunity for leadership.
Men with this kind of impatience will discover the 
stimulation, welcome and rewards they seek in the tele­
phone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
