fi tartan
this week
President Cyert 
Spring Carnival 
ROTC
3
7
10
April 22, 1975 Volume 75 Number 24
PIKA Takes Sweepstakes 
Sets New Course Record
by Jeff Englund
Tiger Shark II, the same buggy that set 
Pi Kappa Alpha’s long-standing record of 
2:20.9 seven years ago, roared through the 
course in a scorching 2:19.3 on the first 
day of competition last Friday. It was the 
second time in two years that a new 
Sweepstakes standard was established, and 
marked the first time ever that a buggy 
cracked 2:20.
Defending champion Sigma Nu, whose 
1974 record (2:20.2) fell in the process, 
made a valiant effort with a young squad 
to defend its title, but had to settle for 
second with a 2:23.2. Perennial contender 
Beta Theta Pi finished third for the third 
consecutive year in 2:25.7.
The Sweepstakes were marred by bad 
weather which forced the cancellation of 
the second day of competition, and by 
accidents and protests throughout the first
day. The Fringe “A” buggy, the “Flying 
Buttress,” hit a curb during its heat and 
was badly damaged. It and four other 
buggies were granted reraces for Saturday, 
which were not run because of bad 
weather. Four were involved in alleged 
cases of interference, while Beta “A” and 
CIA claimed to have been impeded by an 
auto which wound up on the course after 
breaking through a police barrier.
A Pi Kappa Alpha spokesman said that a 
powerful push team, rather than any major 
advances in technology, was responsible for 
the win. “We had the most house spirit 
behind the team in years,” he added. 
“Eighteen men went out for the push 
team, which gave us a lot to choose from.”
PIKA “A” push team included Pete 
Kullen (Hill One), Bob Kozero (Hill Two), 
Dave Fry (Hill Three), Mark Vranderic 
(Hill Four) and was anchored on Hill Five 
by Jay Harper. Its driver was Chris Roussi.
Kurzweil Elected Chairperson
by Charles Mitch
Student Senate elected Larry Kurzweil 
to be its new Chairperson at its meeting on 
April 16. A revamping of the present sys­
tem of representation in Senate and a 
directing of students’ priorities away from 
academics towards getting ^ involved with 
charities and service projects are major 
changes Kurzweil intends to initiate.
“The last election showed that the new 
constituencies are a failure. The results 
show students were better represented 
under the old constituencies (by residence
PIKA wins buggy.
Chairman Irate
Phi Kap Takes Design
Larry Kurzweilphoto by John Shettel
areas),” Kurzweil commented, referring to 
the poor showing in the recent elections, 
especially in Fine Arts and H&SS which 
even failed to have candidates run for 16 out 
of the two constituancies’ 17 seats. Adop­
tion of the recently proposed constitution, 
which would reduce the number of repre­
sentatives in senate to just one seat per 
constituency, coupled with a return to the 
previous constituencies based on residence 
areas, would alleviate the apathy problem, 
Kurzweil feels. He went on to say “the new 
constituencies can’t be representative when 
you have write in candidates that won with
5 votes in Fine Arts and H&SS; but CIT 
and MIS are well represented.”
Director of this spring’s Multiple Scler­
osis drive, Kurzweil would like to see Sen­
ate get involved with more charities. One 
fund raising possibility he suggested was a 
dance marathon.
Kurzweil, a sophomore, is an AMS and 
Psychology major and a member of SAE. 
He has served on Senate two semesters and 
has been chairman of Senate’s General 
Campus Committee. He has also been pres­
ident of the Council of Fraternal Pres­
idents.
At the same meeting, Keith McDonald 
was elected to be Vice-Chairman and the 
following committee chairmen were 
elected: Academic Affairs-Larry Valery, 
General Campus-George Bachner, Infor- 
mation-Thomas Huffsmith, Rules-Jerome 
Digennaro, Finance-Don Simon.
by Charles Mitch
Marred by controversy, like the rest of 
Sweepstakes, the design competition was 
won by Phi Kappa Theta’s buggy, the 
Shadow. Booth competition was won by 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Kappa Kappa 
Gamma.
“I really hope they can find someone to 
be Sweepstakes Chairman next year, 
because when they find out what I went 
through this year, no one will ever take the 
job,” this year’s Sweepstakes Chairman 
Dave Kanner complained after the awards 
ceremony, last Saturday, April 19. In his 
speech at the ceremony Kanner apologized 
for the mishaps, saying “we did the best 
job we could, and considering some of the 
crap we had to put up with, it was a 
superhuman effort.”
Cancellation of Saturday’s heats due to 
a wet course caused considerable contro­
versy. Many of those involved felt that the 
heats could have been run, given enough 
time for the course to dry. They charge 
that the judges^-decision on cancellation 
was premature. Other hassles involved pro­
tests over times and charges by Students 
Dorm Council and Carnegie Involvement 
Association that the Sigma Nu buggy 
should have been disqualified because 
Sigma Nu failed to bring the buggy to free 
roll practices which occur days before the 
race.
Phi Kappa Theta was involved in an 
accident with the Pi Kappa Alpha “B” 
buggy. The judges decided to grant PIKA a 
rerun but disqualified Phi Kap from race 
competition. They were, however, allowed 
to be eligible for design competition.
Second and Third places in the Design
comneition went to Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s 
Intrepid II and Finge’s Flying Buttress 
respectively.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon took first place 
among the frats in the booth competition 
with a booth based on the “Mousetrap 
Game.” Kappa Kappa Gamma won first 
place among the sororities with a booth 
involving tossing a bean bag into a replica 
of the CMU steam cdnnels.
Konopka Wants 
Involvement
by Debbie Siegel
“I would like to see student government 
get more involved with campus affairs,” 
said new President of Student Government 
Doug Konopka. Konopka wants student 
senate to do more than appropriate funds 
to activities; he hopes students will come 
to senate with their complaints about the 
university.
Konopka, a freshman, spurts in amaze­
ment, “When I came to Carnegie-Mellon, I 
never believed that I would become the 
president of Student Government this year. 
So much has happened so fast.”
“This is a very young, open minded 
senate. It’s going to be much more progres­
sive,” said Konopka. Only three of the new 
student senate have participated on senate 
for more than one semester. Konopka said, 
“The few old members of senate are strong 
enough to keep the new senate in line. This 
senate won’t go totally radical.”
Responding to the effect of changing 
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN—April 22. 1975
editor’s note
College Memories
You see, son, things were a lot different when your 
mother and / went to school. It was considered necessary in 
those days, to go to college right after you got out of high 
school. Colleges were bustling with students, many of whom 
had nothing to look forward to but four years of laboring for 
a degree, the degree and then a job driving a cab, if they were 
lucky. Of course there were the engineers who had an easier 
time finding employment, or at least they got a few plant 
trips out of the deal before they entered the unemployment 
statistics.
Oh, and then there was this species called the "private 
school” where it cost an excess of $5000 a year to be told 
that such and such a program had to be cut due to the 
financial squeeze. You don’t see many of them around any­
more because students started looking down the street and 
noticed all this construction. After a bit of investigation they 
found out that they were obserivng a state-owned school 
and that it cost less than $1000 a year to go there. They also 
realized that they were indirectly supporting this growing 
state institution. See, they had to work to pay for their own 
colossal tuition and in the process of working, the state took 
back some money which eventually went to the state-owned 
school. That’s when students started realizing that they might 
as well collect on these contributions to the state, saving 
$4000 a year by doing so, which could then be used to buy 
air conditioning for their cabs.
But there was a lot of opposition to the trend towards the 
elimination of those “private schools.” People objected to 
the idea of living in a country whose higher education system 
was dominated by the government—it made us too much like 
the Russkies. (We and they were the big powers then like the 
Arabs are today.) Also some students wanted individual 
attention instead of being crowded into the massive lecture 
halls at the public schools. I, for example, preferred taking 
Freshman Chemistry in a classroom filled with 250 students, 
rather than one filled with dose to 500.
So the private schools put up a real fight to remain 
financially stable. They started by firing a whole bunch of 
employees so as to scare the remaining workers into increased 
productivity. Then they started trimming out the unneces­
sary extravagances. Would you believe that in those days they 
used to have a beast called “Student Affairs” which did 
nothing but interact with students all day long; “The stu­
dent’s friend, ” they used to call it. Well, they got rid of that 
real fast. First they scared its director, called the Dean, into 
thinking that his position was in question due to his lack of 
responsibilities. The Dean then gobbled up all his underlings’ 
responsibilities, thus doing the work of many. After finally 
noticing what the division’s responsibilities were, the 
University President decided they weren’t really important 
anyway and eliminated the Dean. Even the Trustees were 
impressed; it was the most effective way they had ever seen 
of getting rid of Student Affairs. And the students were so 
confused, that they didn’t even notice what had happened 
until they received an announcement happily announcing a 
$350,000 budget surplus.
But that was all a long time ago. And it’s time for you to 
go to bed. Get some rest because you have to go to the HE W 
office tomorrow and see if they’ll let you go to college; your 
mother so wants you to be a plumber. Well, good night son.
—Gary Singer
Graduation cometh and taketh away three of the 
TARTAN’s most valuable assets: Steven Cor ref I, Debbie 
Siegel and Lester Nathan. Mere words cannot describe their 
contribution to this newspaper, may it thrive as their tribute.
letters
Editor:
Despite^ the dire monetary cir­
cumstances of the last month, 
the THISTLE surpassed the 
break-even point in sales. Instead 
of a $2,000 loss, the yearbook 
may actually come out financial­
ly ahead. The excellent support 
shown by the student body and
administration indicates that a 
yearbook is a marketable and 
desirable tradition to continu i at 
C-MU.
Because most of the 1975 
THISTLE staff is Seniors, very 
few members will remain at Car- 
negie-Mellon with whom to build 
a 1976 staff. If the current 
Junior class wants to produce a 
yearbook for their Senior year, 
they must be willing to establish 
a staff for next year. Next Oc­
tober is almost too late to find
out that the Seniors won’t get 
their yearbook.
As retiring THISTLE editor, 1 
invite any lindrclass staff mem­
bers and any returning C-MU stu­
dents to consider a position with 
the 1976 THISTLE. Please con­
tact us before Graduation. I 
don’t want the 1975 THISTLE 
to be the last edition.
Kathy Sabec
continued on page 3
tartan
Editor in Chief: 
Special Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor:
Gary Singer 
Debbie Siegel 
Lester Nathan 
Charles Mitch
Entertainment Editor: Mark Chimpsky
Trapeze Editor: Greg McKenna
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Sports Editor: David Kanner
Staff Writers: Steven Correll, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred Freedman, Roger Geddes, Dave Girdany, 
Arnie Karr, Susan Klein, Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding', Kevin Turcotte, Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner.,
Photography: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson. Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Rodman Reilly, John 
Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, John Shettel.
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg.
Art: Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe, Mary Kay Groupe, Jim
Vlasic.
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withold any copy that it considers unfit for 
publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie —Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone: (412) 682-4557 (Business 
Pnone); (412) 621-2600 ext 656 or 481 (Editorial Phones).

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—April 22, 1975-Page 3
news comment
\ioo Km w t +) ^W ite
IHM- MTßf\.... * 00^
QWp.... “
letters
continued from page 2
Editor:
It might interest you to know 
that there is one more example 
of “undercover” work being con­
ducted her at C-MU which, of 
course, students aren’t supposed 
to know about. No definite com­
mittment has been made yet, but 
I feel students should be aware 
of the situation.
Negotiations are presently be­
ing conducted through the 
modern language deparment to 
teach Saudi Arabian students to 
speak English and to translate 
technical military manuals. These 
students would come here in 
groups of about 25, and stay for 
a period of about 2 years.
Why has information concern­
ing the possibility of such a pro­
ject been withheld from the cam­
pus community?
This program would probably 
begin some time in May-wonder­
ful timing, since most of us will 
be gone by then. The money in­
volved would be a considerable 
sum-an excellent incentive for an 
underprivileged H&SS depart­
ment.
Why did the Saudi Arabians 
approach C-MU with this plan in 
the first place? Why does the ad- 
ministration-who must endorse 
the program- feel no moral dif­
ficulty in this affair? Where will 
the qualified teachers come 
from?
I will be graduating in May. 
Unfortunately, I am sorry my 
degree will be from a university 
willing to endorse such a pro­
gram.
Name withheld
Editor:
Thanks to John Mangano for 
his long and concerned article of 
the production of ONE MAN 
SHOW.
If the drawing of the protag­
onist was not particularly flatter­
ing, and if some remarks about 
the performance were not entire­
ly dove-tailing with our own 
opinion:a critic has the right, 
yea, the duty to report his im­
pressions such as they are. And 
in our business we have a saying 
that the most important thing is 
that the name is spelled cor- 
rectlv.
Permit me a small correction. 
The show did not play only to 
patrons. Faculty was also invited. 
The performance was announced 
in the Campus Calender, and to 
my knowledge all the students 
who asked for tickets got them. 
Alas, there were not many.
When I came here eleven years 
ago, students could come only to 
dress rehearsals . I immediately . 
set aside one third for students, 
whilevone third was reserved for 
faculty, and one third for towns­
people.
Inspite of painted and printed 
posters, of notices to the 
TARTAN and to WRCT, the stu­
dents’ third was never sold out. 
That is why this year I dispensed 
with posters and lavished 
$800(the patrons’-don’t malign 
them) on scenery, the latter a 
project for drama students.
And, by the way, our next 
production will feature, after 
some excerpts from the standard 
repertory, a musical version of 
Ionesco’s THE BALD 
SOPRANO, staged by the Drama 
Department’s Jewel Walker on 
April 23 & 24 at 8:30 PM in the 
SKIBO Ballroom. ALL ARE 
WELCOME!
Rudolph Fellner
Director, Opera Program
View from Warner Hall
This column is one that I have wanted to write for some time. I 
am hopeful that next year I can communicate with you in this 
manner on a regular basis. Today I want to share some thoughts 
on the College of Humanities and Social Sciences with you.
Future of H&SS
I am hopeful that we will be able to announce the appointment 
of a new dean for H&SS before the end of the semester. Further, I 
am optimistic that we can make H&SS a distinguished college that 
will provide a unique liberal arts education. The thrust for achiev­
ing this objective comes from two sources. The first is the profes­
sional and pre-professional programs that have been developed to 
fit logically into a liberal arts framework. Our professional minors 
need to be e*amined to see which of the programs can properly 
be expanded within the liberal arts framework and made*into 
complete programs of their own. In addition, we need to develop 
more fully our prelaw and premedical programs for students. The 
possibility of concentrating premed students within H&SS even 
though they might have majors in biology or chemistry should be 
investigated by a joint H&SS-MIS committee.
The second thrust is the development of the social science 
portion of the College. The new dean will need to have a wider 
array of resources in the social sciences to make it a humanities 
and social sciences college. With such a base we can develop an 
undergraduate program in public administration. In fact, a whole 
series of professional programs that are consistent with a liberal 
arts college can evolve from a social science base. The strong 
humanities base gives us the capacity for other types of profession­
al training that are consistent with liberal arts. In this fashion, 
therefore, I am hopeful that we can develop a college that will give 
not only the traditional kind of training in the liberal arts but will 
also prepare students more efficiently than the ordinary liberal 
arts college to enter the labor market and society. In the process, 
we will enhance the existing strengths of the humanities so that 
they can participate effectively in the liberal professional edu­
cation of the college.
Student Participation
I also want to comment on the role of students in the manage­
ment of the University. Our approach is to include students on all 
the important committees within the institution in which the 
students have potentially important views. Thus, we have students 
on all the trustee committees and on almost all the important 
committees in the Division of Business Affairs. I makeapoiit 
through the WRCT program, luncheons and other informal meet­
ings with students to engage in as much dialogue with students as 
possible. More generally, the role of students in this administration 
can be described as providing feedback and advice on the way in 
which the University should change or on proposed changes within 
the University. We need the inputs of students and staff if the 
University is to run effectively and if this administration is to 
make intelligent decisions.
I have found the students of this University to be responsible 
and constructive in all the activities in which I have observed 
them. We as a University are fortunate to have this high caliber of 
students. It is my intention to continue to utilize this resource in 
every way, consistent with the objective of their attaining a 
first-rate education. I am always open to suggestions from students 
and would be glad to discuss this topic with any students who 
wish to explore it further.Finances
Our financial situation for 1975-6 looks good. Financial con­
tributions from corporations and alumni have been generous. We 
are managing our resources more efficiently and will be able to 
maintain the same tuition during the 1975-76 year. We have yet to 
make a decision on tuition for 1976-77, and I will not make any 
predicitons until I get the report of the tuition committee. I am 
gratified when I look at tuitions like the following for 1975-76: 
MIT-$3700; Caltech-$3,375; Yale-$4,000; Cornell-$3,775; 
Rochester-$3,375; Rensselaer-$3,400
All of you can take pride in our achievement. Without the 
cooperation of the student body, little can be achieved. By contin­
uing to work together, we can keep our University strong and 
make it a model for other private institutions. Richard M. Cyert
President

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
Page 4—THE TARTAN—April 22, 1975
Classified
The Institute of International Education
announces the official opening of the 
1976-77 competition for grants for grad­
uate study or research abroad in academic 
fields and for professional training in the 
creative and performing arts. It is expected 
that approximately 550 awards to 50 
countries will be available for the 1976-77 
academic year. INFORMATION AND 
APPLICATION FORMS MAY BE OB­
TAINED FROM: Dean Milligan, Fulbright 
Program Advisor at Carnegie-Me 11 on 
University. She is located in 207 Warner 
Hall. Please note: THE DEADLINE DATE 
for receipt of applications in her office is 
OCTOBER 6. 1975.
Students wishing to register for parking in
the fall may register in the Skibo Lobby on 
the following days: Wednesday, April 23 
(9:00 AM to 4: PM), Thursday,April24 (9:00 
AM to 4:00 PM) and Friday, April 25 
(9:00 AM to 4:00 PM). Parking allocations 
will be processed over the summer on a 
first come basis, so please register on the 
above days to be sure of a parking space 
this coming fall. No application will be 
accepted without the car registration num­
ber. Any questions should be directed to 
Sylvia Austin x422.
Attention owners of recycled records at
Entropy: Recycled records must be picked 
up by May 5, 1975. Entropy will not be 
responsible for any records left after that 
date. Suggested times for picking up 
records are 10:30 am each morning and 
10:00 pm each evening, except Saturday.
Attention! All students in course 15-380,
Introduction to Artificial Intelligence. The 
in-class final has been replaced by a take- 
home test. The take-home will be handed 
out in class on Friday, April 25. It will be 
due at 11:30 am on May 5, in Science Hall 
4105.
There are still a few fraternities and cam­
pus organizations who have not had their 
photographs shot for the 1975 THISTLE. 
Please contact us by April 29 via Skibo 
Information desk mailbox. Any group that 
wishes to submit their own photograph 
should do so by April 29.
Congratulations to the winners of the
Spring Carnival Drive for Multiple Scler­
osis: The Brothers of SIGMA ALOHA 
EPSILON and the Sisters of KAPPA 
ALPHA THETA. The organizers would 
also like to thank the Pittsburgh Trophy 
Co. and Student Senate for their co­
operation.
The eleventh annual Carnegie Symposium
on Cognition will be held on April 24-26 in 
the auditorium of the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration. It is sponsored 
by the Department of Psychology.
"Kent State, 1970" will be shown tonight
in the Wherrett Room, Skibo at 7:30 pm. 
Admission is free and the film is open to 
the public.
The Military Science Department of Car-
negie-Mellon University is in the process of 
organizing the Pathfinder Orienteering 
Club for the sport of orienteering. Orien­
teering is one of the newest competitive 
sports in the United States. It is a combin­
ation of cross-country running and land 
navigation with the aid of a topographical 
map and compass. It is an old sport in 
Europe and will be featured in the 1976 
Olympics. For further information, oon- 
tact Tyrone Adderly in the MS Department 
or call extension 409.
Scotch 'n' Soda will hold auditions for its
1975 Spring Show on Sunday, April 27, 
from 1-5 pm in the Wherrett Room. 
Writers should bring a scenario and/or 
script and a sample of music. For more 
information call Paul Szauter at 421-5672.
—Personals—
An 86 year old man has been accused of
rape and fornication on the second floor of 
Baker Hall. Student witnesses commented: 
"that's what you get when you give up 
your real estate; foreclosure."
G.
Just wanted to say Hi.
L.
Lost .in Hunt Library bathroom,
4/14/75—Gold Catseye ring. Reward for 
return, no questions. 682-9390. Ask for 
Darry, Room 302.
PARACHUTING—First Jump Training—
$45—at Ohio Parachute School, 90 minute 
drive from campus. Phone 216-332-9843 
weekday evenings.
Free Pregnancy Testing Mon-Sat 9-4. For
information call 362-2920.
Spacious one bedroom furnished apt dose
to campus—summer sublet with option to 
lease in fall—$140/month incl. utilities, 
681-5038.
Sublet, May to August, with option on
next year. Furnished house: 4 bedrooms, 2 
baths, one block from CMU, 687-5119.
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Complete drafting set, $20. 682-9775.
Room 201 —Kevin.
Female roommate wanted to share large
Sq. Hill home, own room, co-ed. 
$95/month, May 1. Jeff, 521-2418.
Student Senate needs a secretary for the
upcoming year. $2.50 per hour, approx­
imately 20-25 hours per week. Please con­
tact Larry Kurzweil, Information Desk, 
Skibo.
Sublet: Attractive 5-room apt. on Friend­
ship Ave. bay window, fireplace and bal­
cony. $170/month, utilities included. Fur­
nished. June-Sept. 363-6082.
COUNSELORS, over 20 for unique over­
night boys summer camp in Penna. Able to 
instruct any one of the following: Water 
safety, boating, water skiing, athletics, golf, 
physics, chemistry, rocketry, tennis, 
riflery, ham radio, photography, arts & 
crafts or archery. Write Camp Director, 
138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 
19444.
This tops 
itali.
From one beer lover to another.
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
summer
ineurope
bb DAY ADVANCE 
PA/VENT REQUIREDU S GOVT APPB0VIC TWA PAN AM TSAKSAVIA______________
uni t.'ai/el cfiaMer. 
• CALI TOU FREE 1 800 325 4857 »
CHARTERS 
LESS THAN
.1/2

---------------------------------------------------

Languages May Teach 
English to Arabs
THE TARTAN - April 22, 1975 - Page 5
University spokesmen confirmed last 
week that the Modern Languages Depart­
ment and Translation Center are awaiting 
word on the fate of a proposal to establish 
a program to train non-students in English- 
to-Arabic translation.
They would not disclose who would pay 
for the program.
But Director of Public Relations Patrick 
J. Hunt characterized as “absolutely ridic­
ulous” the charge that the program is 
designed to teach Saudi Arabian nationals 
to translate military manuals.
Dr. Juris Silenieks, Head of the Depart­
ment of Modern Languages and Liter­
atures, said that while the program’s details 
have yet to be worked out, it will probably 
be a two-year course terminating in a cer­
tificate rather than a degree.
The administrative details of issuing and 
negotiating the propsal have been handled 
by Dr. Bernard Goldsmith, who, as Dir­
ector of Continuing Education for GSIA, is 
experienced in that college’s post­
professional training programs.
Silenieks also denied that the program 
deals with military translation. He said that 
young Saudis would be given instruction 
in English, the Physical Sciences and His­
tory.
“What they’ll do with it when they go 
back we don’t know, obviously,” said 
Silenieks, who said there was no indicatior 
the training would be put to military rathe, 
than financial or commerical uses.
Established Pittsburgh Film 
Company seeks writers to add 
visual comedy material and 
improve upon a completed 
movi script. Can you write 
Woody Allen - Mel Brooks 
type visual comedy? Call Mr. 
Ruttenberg at 373-0415.
APARTMENT 
TO SUBLET
May 16th or June 1st 
to Aug. 31st
Large beautifully furnished, one bedroom apt., 
OaWand/Shadyside vicinity (Morewood Ave.) 
Grad. Student or prof. person(s) desired.
RENT NEGOTIABLE
Phone: 687-2467 or 441-4839 (eves.)
TENNIS 
INSTRUCTORS
Need good background in 
playing and teaching. Salary 
averaging $150-$300 per week. 
Call (703) 548-6338 or send 
resume to: 203 South Union St., 
Alexandria, Va. 22314."
“Nobody trains translators for one 
specific purpose,” agreed Hunt, who said 
that even if it were desired, specific train­
ing in military translation would not be 
cost-effective.
He explained that many large American 
corporations are interested in training 
translators due to the increased volume of 
trade with Arab nations, and that Arab 
governments are increasingly involved in 
international finance, a field requiring tech­
nical translations.
He guessed that the Translation Center 
has probably approached most of the 500 
largest American corporations and financial 
institutions with proposals for such train­
ing programs. Asked whether the proposal 
involved dealing with the Saudi Arabian 
government, he said that it “would have to, 
it would seem to me.”
The Translation Center, established with 
the aid of a grant from the Pittsburgh 
Foundation, was set up to provide trans­
lation services or training to institutions 
outside the University on a contract basis.Konopka on 
Senate
continued from page 1
constituencies this year from residence to 
college, Konopka thinks this senate may be 
more aware of academic affairs. However, 
he maintains that this senate will be 
“mainly socially minded.” Konopka would 
like to work with Students’ Dorm Council 
and the Unified Fraternal Organization in 
addition to senate.
“Senators can be more effective by 
reporting back to their constituency and 
questioning their college,” said Konopka. 
Addressing himself to the administration, 
Konopka said, “I feel I’ll be representing 
students to the administration. I hope ad­
ministrators will come and question me.”
At senate’s meeting last Wednesday, 
Larry Kurzweil was elected chairperson of 
senate. “I think Larry showed by under­
taking the MS drive his commitment to 
mobilize the campus in a constructive out­
side activity,” said Konopka.
Konopka would like senate to be con­
cerned with local matters such as lowering 
the drinking age and lobbying for more 
funds. When asked about a proposal to cut 
down the size of senate, Konopka hesi­
tated, “I don’t really want to answer that 
question yet. The idea might have pos­
sibilities.”
Regina Hopkins presents a free record album to a spectator as DJ 
Arnie Karr broadcasts to the Carnival Crowd.
photo by Elliot Popowitz
Pro Jocks upset WRCT Staff
by Debbie Siegel
WRCT’s policy of letting former 
students of CMU broadcast during Spring 
Carnival has raised some controversy 
among staff members of WRCT. Two for­
mer students, Chris Robinson and Shannon 
Drake, now disc jockeys for WDVE broad­
cast on WRCTs truck for three hours out 
of the total 26-hour broadcasting time.
Program Director Mark Wainwright said, 
“I believe that those two are more com­
petent than certain members of our staff. 
The station would sound better with them 
on the air during Carnival.” Wainwright 
explained that a list was posted where disc 
jockeys could sign up to broadcast during 
Spring Carnival. W ainwright feels he pick­
ed the best jocks who signed up.
Wainwright explained further that the 
two former students were chosen because 
“both individuals have contributed greatly 
and are still contributing time and advice 
to the station.” Wainwright would only 
give the stage names of these former stu­
dents. He said, “This is protocol for the 
broadcasting industry.” Responding to 
whether he would place non-former CMU 
students on the air, Wainwright said, “I 
doubt I would put others on the air from 
the outside.”
Arnie Karr, former program director, 
said that he set the precedent for former 
students broadcasting on the air when he
EUROPE at prices you can afford fron,$ 299!
TRANSATLANTIC FLIGHTS • RAIL PASSES • TREKKING 
ACCOMMODATIONS • ALL INCLUSIVE “TWO WEEKERS”
Spend less for the air... more when you’re there! For 
SPECIAL low rates, members contact. .
National Office(212) 661-1330
NATIONAL ASS'N OF 
STUDENTS AND 
TEACHERS
(800) 223-5267
Toll free outside of New York State
mail coupon to NAST,I Box 1961, Grand Central Station, NY. N Y 10017
Name
Address
Telephone (
I
I 
I 
I
allowed Martha Smith to continue as a disc 
jockey. “I believe very strongly in what 
Mark is doing. He is setting a high standard 
for jocks. Both alumni are not really out­
siders. We are establishing an important 
link between WDVE and WRCT. Those 
WRCT jocks who display hostility have 
bruised egos.”
Dave Hochendoner, general manager, 
said,* “I don’t consider them outside 
people. The people that didn’t get on know 
they’re not good at working with a new 
top forty format.”
Wainwright maintains that the new 
foimat is working well. “There have been 
an incredible number of compliments and 
request calls. We have only received a few 
negative comments.”
John Craun, WRCT staff representative, 
signed up originally to broadcast during 
Carnival. He said, “I volunteered to take 
my name off. I think it stinks that people 
who wanted to get on the air couldn’t. The 
exclusion of staff members stinks.”
Former WRCT disc jockey, Sal Paradise, 
said “Everybody at the station is very 
defensive and they don’t want to be 
challenged. There is a lot of tension.” 
Paradise said bringing in former students is 
no good.
Arnie Karr was the only disc jockey 
who never signed the list to broadcast dur­
ing Carnival. “Everyone knew he was going 
to do a show. He’s one of the most popular 
disc jockeys on campus,” said Wainwright. 
The other Spring Carnival disc jockeys in­
cluded Mark Wainwright, Phil Russell, Skip 
Edwards and Dave Penner.
Skip Edwards refused to comment 
about former CMU students broadcasting 
during Carnival.
Dave Penner said, “It was a little objec­
tionable that we have to resort to outside 
persons. Originally, I was a little more dis­
turbed.” v
Wainwright added, “Unquestionably I’m 
telling people they’re less competent than 
other individuals. There’s no question 
people are getting upset.”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - THE TARTAN April 22. 1975
Registrar Begins New Registration Process
by Chip Yeager
The Registrar’s office has embarked on 
a program to computerize all C-MU stu- 
dnets. The office, in cooperation with 
Information Systems, a part ot the Com­
puter Center will put all pertinent infor­
mation about C-MU students on a data 
bank, according to William F. Elliott, Vice 
Provost for Enrollment Planning. When the 
program is in full swing, the status of any 
student, his grades, and the courses he is 
taking or wants to take will be available to 
Warner Hall. This is expected to take four 
semesters says Elliott; the revised tall 
registration procedure that everyone has 
followed this spring isjsut the first step.
*»
* •%
William F. Elliot, Vice Provost for Enrollment 
Planning.
As part of registration next September, 
a C-MU student will be given a Demo­
graphic Data Document. The document, 
based on a form used at Penn State, lists 
the usual data such as address, school and 
citizenship status. In addition, the form 
asks for the race of the student along with 
his religious preference. When asked about 
these blanks. Registrar William Rogers 
remarked that the Federal government 
required the race information, indeed, that 
this question was already asked of all stu­
dents enrolled. Rogers also stated that the 
student could leave any such blank empty 
if he or she so wished. Rogers also remark­
ed that the form will probably be revised 
before next fall and adapted to C-MU’s 
needs. The registrar will meet with Elliott 
and other C-MU officials over the summer 
to settle the question of who may have 
access to the new data bank.
When the new system is finally working, 
a student will have an easier time register­
ing. adding- or dropping courses, according
Students Helping Students 
PEER HELP
BH 150A or 621-9900
to Elliott. Under the present system, a stu­
dent who wants to change his schedule 
must initiate the action himself; the regis­
trar’s office reacts by duly noting the 
change- but not notifying the student 
offically of the change.
Under the new procedure, however, the 
computer will record both those classes a 
student successfully enrolls in and those 
classes for which the student finds himself 
on a waiting list. Eventually, the old prin­
ciple of “first come first served” will be 
replaced by random selection of students. 
In this way a student should not be subject 
to more than his fair share of closed-out 
courses over eight semesters at C-MU.
The system will take note of any per­
sons who drop a class for which a waiting 
list exists. It will then notify the next stu­
dent in line that a slot has opened up for 
him, one for which he may immediately 
register. The whole idea is to make the 
system “interactive” with the student, to 
use a common term around the Registrar’s 
office. Another example of this principle 
applies to the students who add or drop 
courses; the student must have his card 
approved by his advisor and by the depart­
ment whose course he is adding. The 
department then submits the card to 
Warner Hall and it is processed; after five 
days the student should get a revised class 
schedule that proves he is registered for the 
new course.
The admissions office is also computer­
izing its records under Elliott’s supervision. 
All the programs involved are provided by 
Information Systems, the administration’s 
records arm of the Computer Center.
Concern was voiced by some students
when it was discovered that the final draft 
on Spring Registration Procedures, issued 
by the administration, contained references 
to, but gave no description of, the “Van 
Horn rule,” which suggested that tuition 
would be based upon the number of units a 
student was enrolled for. .This would mean 
that one would be charged for taking an 
overload. Questioning of »Elliott revealed 
that the Van Horn rule is used for figuring 
the tuition charge for part time students. 
Under the rule, a student taking less than
36 units is charged $30 per unit. “Some 
members of the administration and faculty 
would like to see us charge for overloads,” 
Elliott admitted, but added that he was 
opposed to this for pedagogical reasons.
Lois Cox, formerly Director of Student Affairs, 
was promoted to Assistant Dean of Student 
Affairs, Dr. Cyert announced on April 17.
Senate Withholds Vote Count
Vote counts from the recent elections 
have been withheld by Student Senate in 
its reporting of election results. Senate 
sources admit that some write-in can­
didates were elected with as few as two 
votes and suggest that releases of such 
results would make a mockery of Senate!
“I question the legitimacy of any gov­
ernment that refuses to release how many 
people voted for it,” one observer of 
Senate charged. Most students, especially 
from the Fine Arts and H&SS constituen- 
eis where the vote could be of
greatest interest, appear to be as concerned 
over this as they were over the election, 
that is, not at all. Below is a list of write-in 
winners of Senate seats, which was not 
available in time for publication in last 
week’s issue.
Fine Arts
Dave Van Ollefin 
Steven King 
Raymond McCaughey 
Gordon Powell 
Douglas Segur 
Paul Knell 
Catherine Drisko 
Ronald Emanuele 
James Harman
Humanities and Social Sciences
Tom Huffsmith 
Greg Ellis 
Lori Goldstein 
Diane Carter 
Linda Evangelista
Graduate School of Industrial Admin 
istration
Debbie Bowen
ATTENTION ART STUDENTS 
Inventory Clearance
50%OFF
ON SELECTED SIZES OF
METAL SECTION FRAMES
40% OFF ON ALL OTHER SIZES 
Sale Limited to Current Inventory 
350 sections in stock-silver and gold
Only at:
THE OFFICE MACHINE 
2109 Murray Ave. in Squirrel Hill421-0619

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Apri I 22, 1975-Page 7
Entrane« to the Midway: Ye Olde Game Shoppe.
SAE's first-place booth: The Mousetrap.
The carnival spirit reaches even Science Hall
Gazortcher contestants fire a water balloon.
J1PKIIN6 CARNimL
PHOTOS BY TARTAN STAFF PHOTOGRAPHERS
Fringe's "Flying Buttress" buggy after impact with the ATO "B" buggy. 
The collision reopened an abrasion on the chin of Fringe driver Toby 
Kramer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTANApril 22. 1975
ATO's booth. Electric Football.
It almost di 
rain at all. . .
PHOTOS BY THE TARTAN PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Apr H 22, 1975-Page 9
HEINZ HALt FOR THfc PERFORMING ART^ HEINZ HAll
HEINZHALt
ITUES., APRIL 29 at8P.M
Tickets: $8, $7. $6
ENTROPY
Now hiring clerks for 1975-76.
No experience necessary.
Only those persons applying for 
work-study grants need apply.
Applications available in Entropy 
and at Skibo Information Desk.
at the Heinz Hall Box Office. 
Gimbels, Horne's, Kaufmann s, 
Sears and all National Record 
Marts.
10% discount to students with 
ID cards at the Heinz Hall Box 
Office only.
Below, Plank Joust contestants face off on a slippery rail over a muddy pit.
Kite fliers absorbed in their craft

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - THE TARTAN - April 22, 1975
R«rC:A CRITICAL ANALYSIS PART2
by Lester Nathan
In the first segment, we looked at the 
military’s viewpoint of the role and status 
of Reserve Officer’s Training Corps 
(ROTC) at CMU Reporting the position of 
those on the outside centered about two 
issues: formation of a subcommittee in the 
CIT College Council to evaluate ROTC and 
recommendations approved by Faculty 
Senate on April 28, 1970 which took 
ROTC out of “the mainstream of the aca­
demic community.” The TARTAN inter­
viewed several members of the faculty and 
administration who were or are invovled in 
these episodes.
The CIT Evaluation Committee
The subcommittee to evaluate ROTC 
was formed by Dean Herbert Toor in Feb­
ruary. Its six members are engineering pro­
fessors from the electrical, mechanical, 
metallurgy departments and the Processing 
Research Institute. Professor Milton Shaw 
is chairman.
The plight of ROTC’s low enrollment 
was first made known to Dean Toor by the 
Military Science department. The CIT 
department heads had not given much 
thought to it previously, since ROTC and 
CIT had been separate for about four and a 
half years. However, they realized that if 
they didn’t start worrying about the prob­
lem, no one else would and ROTC would 
disappear. Dean Toor formed the commi­
ttee with knowledge that its members
would mainly be sympathetic; two have 
gone through ROTC programs and another 
is a retired admiral. In fact, the first thing 
agreed to by the committee, revealed Pro­
fessor Shaw, was that ROTC belongs at 
CMU. Their aim was to make recommend­
ations to strengthen the program with uni­
versity support, ie. increase enrollment.
Committee members were given specific 
assigments. Statistics were to be examined, 
students interviewed, the curriculum evalu­
ated and the contract between CMU and 
the Army reviewed.
ROTC is dominated by CIT stud- 
ents--63% of total enrollment, with 
12% from MIS, 19% from H&SS, and 6% > 
from CFA. There are no specific patterns 
in economic backgrounds or ethnic groups. 
Cadets interviewed gave at least one of 
three reasons for joining:
1) the financial benefits (scholarships 
and subsistence allowance)
2) the chance to have a second career, 
and
3) the value of the training. An attempt 
to interview non-ROTC students was fruit­
less.
The last contract signed between CMU 
and the Army was in 1965. It stipulated 
granting credit for Military Science courses 
and an annual output of 25 Newly Commi­
ssioned Officers through the CMU pro­
gram. Professor Shaw feels the contract is 
outdated, but the initiative to renegotiate 
it has to come from the Army. In his 
opinion, the committee will not reco­
mmend renegotiation either.
The Problem of Low Enrollment
Faculty opinions about the cause of low
Career Opportunities
Are awaiting you, but so is your competition. Be prepared 
to compete for your next opportunity with a professionally 
composed, styled, and printed resme. Personally designed 
for your occupational objective. Special Student rates 
available. Call today.
Resume Consultants
SUITE 4330 1601 PENN AVENUE
AMBASSADOR EAST PITTSBURGH, PA. 15221
243-1162
FULL TIME SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
630 Monthly Guarantee Plus 
$1000 merit scholarship opportunity
Lots of money - Lots of hard work
Join the exciting world of Grolier .... and earn 
$2,015 this summer. Twenty-five summer jobs 
available. Call Ms. Barney, 9:30 to 1:30 at 391-9245 
for interview appointment.
enrollment varied from the cadets’ reasons 
of ignorance and misconceptions about 
ROTC among students and the wearing of 
a uniform. Cited were: the Vietnam war, 
elimination of the draft, a low image of the 
Army, the specialized appeal of CMU 
ROTC to engineers and the alternative of 
engineering graduate school as a place for 
spending the first two to four years after 
graduation.
Prof. Resnick (L) and Prof. Wolfenstein
<R)-Also, one should consider that the CMU 
program competes with programs at other 
schools for the supply of high school stu­
dents who are already interested in joining. 
CMLPs cost and admission standards 
(especially in CIT) screen out many of 
these people.
One faculty member stated that the 
ROTC progrma must be designed to en­
courage current students to join and felt it 
was more important for the University to 
use its resources making CMU attractive 
rather than ROTC.
The Future Sequence
Once the evaluation committee has 
completed its report, the recommendations 
will be sent to Dean Toor. He will give the 
material, a thorough examination and 
present it to the CIT Council. Whatever is 
approved will be sent to Dean Swank and 
President Cyert. If the administration 
thinks the decision is important enough, it
will let Faculty Senate see the recommend­
ations. Should these events occur within 
the next two weeks, Faculty Senate will 
consider these proposals on almost the 
exact fifth anniversary of its recommend­
ations to sever some of ROTC’s ties with 
the University.
The Way It Was
Professor Lincoln Wolfenstein was on 
the Educational Policy Council of Faculty 
Senate in April, 1970. “There were moves 
on many college campuses to do something 
about ROTC,” Dr. Wolfenstein recalled. He 
felt that ROTC’s conspicuousness in the 
form of: a)uniforms, b) marching around 
campus and c) the relatively large number 
of cadets, helped make it a target for anti- 
Vietnam and anti-draft feelings.
Dr. Wolfenstein feels the important 
issue is whether ROTC should be consider­
ed an academic subject. The faculty is 
chosen by the Army and the curriculum is 
determined by the Government. His con­
clusion: ROTC is totally contrary to any 
academic subject and should be an extra­
curricular activity.
Professor Daniel Resnick was a Faculty 
Senate member in 1970 who voted for the 
recommendations. In an interview, he 
stressed the need to keep ROTC separate 
from CIT because integration “will run 
afoul of the accepted academic procedures 
of the institution.” First, ROTC instructors 
would not be subject to review by other 
faculty members, but by Army personnel. 
Second, the University would then be 
giving credentials to people not in the 
normal review process. Because of ROTC’s 
relationship with the Army and Govern­
ment, Professor Resnick favored elimin­
ation of academic titles of ROTC faculty.
Not all of Faculty Senate’s recommend- 
ations had a complete effect, however. The
THE LATIN AMERICAN CLUB PRESENTS
Los Olvidados 
(The Young and the Damned)
Directed by Luis Buñuel
Wed. April 23 P.H. 100 7:30 p.m.
FREE
funded by A.B.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS..................................................7:00 P.M. — Tech House
SUNDAY MASS...........................10:30 A.M. — Science Hall (Rm.-7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES ........................................................................Tech House
(M thru F—5:00 P.M.)
Father Philip Walsh (621-1956) Father Bob English (681-3181)
The Community House is the Tech House • 5125 Margaret Morrison

---------------------------------------------------

IMU ROTC:DOES IT HAVE A FUTURE?
THE TARTAN—April 22, 1975- Page 11
Senate wanted CMU to “begin negotiations 
^th the Army for rental charges on space 
occupied by the ROTC program. “Present­
ly. the Army is using space in the gym­
nasium and Margaret Morrison at no 
charge. Faculty Senate also recommended 
“that a standing committee of the EPC be 
appointed to oversee and monitor contin­
uing ROTC programs, including file-keep­
ing.” This committee had supposedly met 
through last year, with Professor Arthur 
Wilmurt as chairman. However, the exist­
ence of this committee was so obsure that 
Professor Shaw was not aware of its exist­
ence.
How ROTC benefits CMU
Dean Earle Swank serves the University 
in an administrative role to insure that the 
conduct of ROTC and the personnel pro­
vided by the Army meet University stan­
dards. In his own words, “ROTC has pro­
vided a real additional opportunity for a 
large number of students at this institution 
in the form of a second career potential or 
very useful career experience which in con-
vertable to their final career.”
Vice President Edward Schatz support- 
d this, stating that it is important to keep 
OTC, to give students the choice of tak- 
; it. Also, it gives the cadets some 
portant initial contacts.
Professor Resnick acknowledged that 
he University recognizes there are national 
needs that students may wish to respond to 
and allows the program on campus for this 
reason.
Professor Wolfenstein could not think 
of anything positive that ROTC had done 
for the University, but wouldn’t mind the 
program staying as long as it was an extra­
curricular activity.
ROTC scholarships have relieved some 
of the demand on CMU scholarship funds, 
allowing a few students to attend CMU 
who might not have.
Cost Effectiveness of ROTC
In the first installment, we mentioned 
ROTC as a cost-effective way for the 
Army to produce Newly Commissioned 
Officers. As CMU students know, the Cyert 
administration is looking to do things cost- 
effectively also. What about ROTC?
Vice President Schatz briefly described 
how a cost-benefit analysis might be done. 
University costs for the program would be 
examined and probably, be very small. The 
number of students served would be 
counted and cost per student calculated. 
As the first rough indicator, this number 
would be compared with other depart­
ments and activities. A better indicator for 
measuring benefits would have to be de­
vised for better comparison. In Dr. Schatz’s 
opinion, the Army has looked at its fig­
ures more thoroughly and will reach its 
threshold point of economy before the 
University.
To Stay or Not to Stay?
Finding the best ways to keep ROTC on 
campus, if this is what the administration
wants, !s going to be a very difficult task. 
The difficulty will be increased if enroll­
ments continue to stay below “require­
ments” and if the Army continues to de­
man cost -effective programs. The following 
is a list, by no means complete, of actions 
CMU could take to strengthen ROTC’s 
chances for survival:
Prof. Milton Shaw: His committee's recom­
mendations will influence ROTC's future.
photo by Mark Segal
1) Reunite ROTC with CIT-This might 
attract more engineers, help improve the 
curriculum, and give academic titles back 
to instructors.
2) Credit for ROTC courses-The cadets 
would still take an overload, but ROTC 
grades would be factored into the QPA.
3)Credit and Substitution-ROTC cour­
ses could -be substituted for certain CIT 
requirements.
4) Easier overloading-CIT could devise 
a way to make it easier to overload a Mili­
tary Science course
5) Increased subsistence allowance- 
—CMU might contribute some of its money 
to make ROTC more financially attractive.
6) Merger-Combine the CMU program 
with one on another campus, probably 
Pitt.
7) Open Military Science courses to all 
students, hoping to attract potential ca­
dets.
8) More publicity—Use University PR 
and mailings even more.
A Final Note
CMU ROTC is not alone. On June~30, 
the Air Force ROTC (AFROTC) program 
at Duquesne University will be disbanded. 
According to the DUQUESNE DUKE, the 
Air Force gave Congressional budget re­
straints and under-enrollment as reasons 
for its decision. After the spring semester, 
the cadets will be allowed to terminate 
their participation, transfer to Army ROTC 
or cross-register in the University of Pitts­
burgh’s AFROTC program.
Originally, we intended to interview 
some non-ROTC students. However, as 
work on the story progressed, the faculty’s 
role in the story appeared to be more im­
portant. Finally, the TARTAN thanks ev­
eryone who was kind enough to give some 
time for an interview.
Only at:
2109 Murray Avenue in Squirrel HBI 
421-0619
Offer good on any 
manual or electric typewriter 
in good working order.
TRADE-INS off $100 
or more possible 
on some typewriters.
Give us 
your old, tiredtypewriter and we’ll give you $60.00 toward a new
Smith-CoronäCoronamatic™2200
Cartridge 
Portable

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - THE TARTAN - April 22, 1975
Psychology Offers Non-Traditional Courses
by Daryl Hlavsa
The psychology department offers 
credit for courses outside the traditional 
classroom setting. Completion of two 
research methods courses in psychology 
make., you eligible to design your own 
research project. It is possible to study in 
any area of psychology as long as you have 
a faculty member who will supervise your 
work. For example, one of the ways to 
gain practical experience is to design a field 
project studying some aspect of children in 
a school setting. With special arrangements, 
you could work with children from the 
preschool, elementary schools or special 
education classes (including those with 
learning disabilities). Special area interests 
may be developed by finding a faculty 
member with similar interests to advise you 
and grade your work. To find out wnat
projects faculty are involved in, check out 
the pamphlet listing ongoing research. It is 
located in the psychology department 
lounge on the third floor of Baker Hall.
Volunteer or be paid $1.50-2*00 (dep­
ending on which project) to be an exper­
imental subject just to see and learn a little 
more about the practical research going on. 
There are also part-time research assistant 
jobs available. These often include admin­
istering questionnaires, data processing, 
archival work and other work specific to a 
particular project. It can give you the 
opportunity to gain research skills and 
experience that graduate schools value in 
an applicant’s background.
With one research methods course plus a 
core survey course in psychology you can 
plan a readings course. Under faculty
supervision you select the topic and read­
ings to write a paper for credit.
Another means of achieving credit 
independently is to attend the colloquim 
series. Often from other universities, speak- 
eers are invited to discuss their special 
interests and research. Speakers are spon­
sored by the following departments: 
Psychology, GSIA, SUPA, Biotech, Com­
puter Science, and the Psychology Depart­
ment of the University of Pittsburgh. It is 
imperative to register for the course at the 
beginning of the semester. From there, for 
each one you are interested in, background 
readings are required plus attending the 
lectures and writing a critique of the work 
reported by the speakers. The essay is grad­
ed on a high (B or better) pass-fail basis 
(fail: no entry) by the relevant local facul-
Security Arrests Intruders
ty member(s) in that area. The number of 
units is variable ranging from 1-12, one 
unit for each report submitted. Examples 
of topics from last fall’s series are: “Birth 
Order and Intelligence,” “Neurochemistry 
of Aggression,” and “The Infant Shares His 
W'orld With Others.” Listings are posted on 
the psychology bulletin boards on the third 
floor of Baker Hall and usually in the Cam­
pus Calendar (the week it is to be given).
If you have any questions or are 
interested in becoming an experimental 
subject contact the psychology department 
office (the glass-enclosed room) on the 
third floor of Baker Hall. If you feel like 
talking over any of the options with stu­
dents stop by or call SAP (Student Advis­
ory Program), PH 17C, M-F, 12:30-4:30, 
621-2600, ext. 8710.
______—;
cRUGS
by Debbie Siegei
On the weekend of April 12-13th, three 
non-university persons were arrested for 
thefts. One student called security upon 
finding that one of these persons had a 
student’s radio. The three persons will be 
taken to court for an upcoming hearing. 
On this same weekend, eight trespassers 
were arrested and taken to the city police 
court. Another student called in complain­
ing that the trespassers were trying to open 
doors in the dormitories.
“If students will call us, we’ll try to stop 
other criminal activities,” said Corletti. 
Corletti cites weekends as the time for 
most crime incidents.
Security now employs 14 officers. “I 
hired two men since February,” said Cor­
letti. He continued, “Any department can 
use more manpower. How you utilize your 
manpower is important, especially in 
security.”
Aside from crime-fighting, security is 
responsible for ambulance calls, fire and 
safety prevention, opening locks, enforcing 
parking, and traffic control. During day­
light hours, security is more concerned 
with special details. Corletti sees the after­
noon-night turn as the busiest time for 
security because of numerous campus 
activities.
The university has purchased a second 
Chevrolet service van to be used for ambu­
lance calls and patrolling campus. Michael 
Corletti, head of security, estimates the 
vehicle’s worth about $5,000.
The van is equipped with stretchers^ and
Kanner Apologizes 
For Buggy Mishaps
continued from page 1
The following is the text of the speech 
that Kanner delivered at the awards cere­
mony: “There are a number of things that 
can go wrong with a buggy race, and I 0^ 
that this year everything that could have 
gone wrong did. I realize that the circum­
stances surrounding the ’75 Sweepstakes 
generated a lot of hard feelings among a 
large number of people. If any of these 
feelings are directed towards Bob or 
myself, I apologize and I hope that we can 
all forget these feelings by tomorrow morn-
ing. If anyone saddles the blame for this 
year’s screw ups on Bob or myself, I ask 
you to reconsider. We did the best job we 
could, and considering some of the crap we 
had to put up with, it was a superhuman 
effort.
“It is indeed unfortunate that 1975 will 
be remembered as the year of the tainted 
Sweepstakes. The people who are about to 
receive these trophies worked hard for 
them and they truly deserve them. Hope­
fully, we will someday be able to look back 
at this and laugh at ourselves.”
NEED A ROOM?
On-campus housing for rent during the school year. 
Singles and doubles available. Rates lower than Univer­
sity housing - food plan also. Fraternity House - Males 
only. For more information, call 687-8965 or 681-3318.
state emergency kits. By purchasing 
another van rather than an ambulance, the 
expense strictly in an ambulance is cut 
down. “The van may not be as comfor­
table, but our main concern is getting stu­
dents to the hospital as fast as we can,” 
said Corletti.
“I decided we needed another vehicle 
because one is out of service. Security now 
owns the two Chevrolet vans and a Cush­
man scooter, said Corletti.” Corletti feels 
that these vehicles and the implementation 
of foot patrol can effectively cover the 
CMU campus.
for 
lots
lOOO Room-Size Rugs 
9x 12s: $ 15-$ 19-S29-S39
Also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, etc. 
Smaller area rugs in Oriental,
Indian and furry styles
CHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Ave, Bloomfield
(54-C bus lets off at the store)
Open daily 10 to 6 p.m., 
Friday to 8 p.m., 
Saturday til 5 p.m.
FOR INFORMATION—DIRECTIONS—621 -1025j
J
TARTAN PHOTO CONTEST
The WINNERS of the Contest are as
PEOPLE
follows:
1st Place 
2nd Place 
Honorable 
Mention
BEST OF SHOW Alex Mounayar
Collette Gaiter 
Marty L is berger 
Debbie Hautzig
STILL LIFE 
CATEGORY
BEST COLOR
2nd Place
Honorable
Mention
Lisa Puntillo 
Collette Gaiter
Will Sherwood
The judges for the contest were: ^
Jim Stein of Fuller, Smith, & Ross 
and
Rich Horton of: Van Dine, Horton, McNamara, Inc.
"SPECIAL CONSIDERATION". These were submitted by 
Craig Abel, Marty Lisberger, Nirmal Kumar, Creg Podnar,
& Will Sherwood.
The Photography Staff of the Tartan would like to thank 
the c.m.u. Bookstore and the Photoshop of Squirrel Hill for 
their generous contributions of prize money.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—April 22, 1975-Page 13
by Quiff
Well folks, Quiff is as good as he’s ever 
gonna be tonite. Tomorrow may be a dif­
ferent story though. Oh Christ! Yeah, 
Spring Carnival did come. Spring was bust­
ing out all over. Actually, I’m too sauced 
to keep on keepin’ on but I promised my 
good friend Mark Evan that I’d get it up 
one more time. Wait, where’d the type­
writer go? Oh Christ!
For weeks, I’ve been waiting for a new 
super album that I could have used to 
finish up this column right (as if it really 
needed finishing), but that never came 
through, so I went to the Carnival tonite 
without a prayer of inspiration. Still, being 
the pilgrim that I am, I gave it that good 
old Camegie-Mellon try. It’s late and get­
ting later by the second, so here goes a 
straght-faced effort to tell you where dem 
Tops is really at, you dig?
The truth of the matter is that the 
music is really all around us (quit scratch­
ing your head). Yes, it’s quite simple. The 
love, the warmth and the afterthought that 
good music provides is deep within us all. 
It showed at the Carnival tonite. Man, that 
warmth was standing over the crowd like a 
protective angel. Those handshakes were 
sincere, fleeting as they may have been.
The beautiful harmonies are with us 
always—it’s just that we have a hard time 
letting it shine through, ’specially when 
you don’t see the sun for six or seven 
weeks.
The music definitely came out after 
dark tonite. Amie Karr had his own soul 
train warmed up and it went down just 
fine. On hand, Little Stevie Wonder (who 
ain’t so little no more), War and even Sam 
and Dave. Joining in the dance festivities, I
entertanmen
caught a glimpse of Master of Ceremonies 
Rich Weiss, master controller Gary Singer, 
and even our own dear Mark Evan.
As the darkness turned to blackness, the 
beat picked up and the dance crowd seem­
ed to be moving on blues power, Eric Bur- 
don cranked up, I got down and the whole 
place was just all right (’scuse the lingo). 
Amie was screaming out the names of the 
tunes and Don Cornelius could have done 
no better (you jivin’ me—no way).
From the WRCT truck everything 
looked like a pendulum swinging mirage. 
The lights, the glitter, the excitement, it 
was all there. Calling out questions to the
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU's Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
• Desk Lamps • Key Service • Artist Brushes
• Hot Plates • Poster Paints • School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND 
Phone :621-0923
COLOR COPIES
Now available at Copy Cat®
Same day service at new location in FOUR GATEWAY CENTER, or 48 hour service at 
Copy Cat- in WEBSTER HALL. Special For Students & Faculty!
XEROX COPY PRICES;
I -5-6</copy 
6- 10-3</copy
II -15 2C/copy
16 - Up -1 ’/a C/copy
100 copies cost $1.83 
(OF SAME ORIGINAL)
Ask for a quote on 
large volume jobs.
Expert Typing Available on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
* A 25% discount is available 
on copies in 1-5 range if you 
leave work for 48 hours.
OFFSET PRINTING PRICES:
100 Copies - $3.50 
Each additional 100 - 90 <
1000 Copies-$11.60 
Each additional 100- 80C
2000 Copies-$19.60
Above 5000 each additional 
100 Copies - 70C
BOOK BINDING PRICES: 
Paper Cover - 85< 
Composition Cover - $1.50 
Hard Cover - $4.00
EXPERT TYPING
All done on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
COPY CAT®
Quick Copy Center
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
683-8040
FOUR GATEWAY CENTER 
263-2577
loud audience brought a lot of laughs and a 
few smiling faces.
So as I was saying, the music is right 
here. It’s in our hearts and our souls. It 
comes sneaking through, on nights like the 
Carnival opening, 1975. It was in the faces
MUST PRESENT OFFICIAL I.D. 
CARD TO RECEIVE STUDENT 
AND FACULTY DISCOUNT.
photo by Mark Segal
of all the new and young lovers. The 
people were out taking full advantage of 
springtime. The flowers were blooming and 
it was a time for re-evaluating old situa­
tions and shrugging that winter dust off 
our backs.
Before. I quit, I thought I’d put in a 
good word for Amie ’cause he came 
through with the sounds just like he pro­
mised he’d do. Sly was cooking, Earth, 
Wind and Fire were their usual all-you-got 
performance and, of course, I got down. 
Oh God! Blonde Leslie from Skibo Grill 
captured first prize for the most soul on 
two legs and that trivia man from the black 
cheering section was incredible.
It has been a long year and I want to say 
that I’ll miss all you loving faces, who 
won’t be back for the next round in Sep­
tember. We all know that it’s spring and we 
got to get out and do the things we gotta 
do (pay attention cause this is some heavy 
philosophy). I want to thank Bruce L. for 
being the friend that he is and all the 
stoney faces who help keep my shlock in 
type.
Also, this is dedicated to all those every­
where who have ever felt or seen love. 
Good music wouldn’t be anything without 
those special feelings and remember, I got 
down tonight, OH CHRIST!
TUESDAY, APRIL 22nd 
MOVIE: FREE ADMISSION!
KENT STATE, 1970
WHERRETROOM IN 
SKIBO HALL- 
7:30 P.M. -8:00 P.M.
SPONSORED BY PROGRAMMING FUND

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN—April 22. 1975
Good Music Can’t Salvage Ancient Ruin
by Mark Evan Chimsky
There is a moment, near the end of this 
year’s Scotch ‘n’ Soda musical, “Amphit­
ryon,” when everything works. The scene 
is a Greek-style lunacy (a la comedy of 
errors), with a perenially sex-starved hus­
band suddenly being lustily pursued by 
both his wife and a nubile servant girl. The 
threesome engage in a musical frolic called 
“Just For Now”—the son is smart and 
brassy and, bless Olympus, there’s even a 
bit of very cagey dancing. All the right 
components are there, fusing with an 
electric vitality—the number moves the 
plot, as well as the characters (both figur­
atively and literally), and the audience. We 
begin to view the show in relation to this 
number, and realize a wealth of untapped 
potential.
“Amphitryon,” adapted from the 
Giradoux play by William Turner, with 
music by Michael Simon and lyrics by John 
Spritz, is the thirty-ninth version of the 
convoluted, classic Greek myth involving 
mortals and gods playing musical beds—but 
this time around, they really sing while 
they’re at it. Such an ambitious conception 
demands equally ambitious execution. Un­
fortunately, there is little harmony 
between the breezy score and the musty 
eloquence of the book. Of another time
and place, the language of Giradoux’s 
romantic comedy now seems cloyingly 
poetic. The book drags where it should 
leap. Mr. Simon’s musical numbers come 
like breaths of life in a rather charming, 
though slightly outmoded sepulcher.
The music captures the playful mood of 
this Grecian “La Ronde” with dynamic 
ingenuity. Yet, Mr. Spritz’s muddled lyrics 
possess scarcely any of the book’s lofty 
wit. Here, we need the spirit and rhyme 
schemes of a Cole Porter or Lorenz Hart to 
bridge the chasm between florid speech 
and keen, Broadwayesque music. Lacking 
clever lyrics, the characters go oddly
schizzy—their songs appearing neither
organic nor reflective of their native
speech, but merely imposed by a rougher 
design. Because of this, the songs seem 
clumsily integrated, even superfluous, to 
the rest of the proceedings.
Still, the musical numbers, conducted 
by Steven L. Bell, energize the show with a 
welcome freshness. I have not yet been 
able to stop humming the gorgeously
pulsating melody of Mr. Simon’s “In the 
Dark of the Night.”
Of the admirable cast, Rebecca Roll (as 
the cheif chambermaid, Nenetza) had an 
assurance and broad, comic-belting style 
reminiscent of vintage Merman. Nonie 
Dempsey was also splendid as she squeaked
her dizzy way through the role of 
Kleantha, the servant-girl “in demand.” 
There was an hysterical agility to Barry 
Lipsitz’s Mercury, and he did well to play 
up the quirkiness of the-character. His : 
Mercury was a kind of Woody Allen in 
wings, and it worked wonderfully. Along 
the same lines Laurel Felix as Leda (the 
Queen with the swan fetish) is to be con­
Eat, drink and be cheap.
Eat. A juicy Sirloin Filet. Golden 
French Fries. A never-ending garden of salad. And 
slabs of hot French, rye or pumpernickel bread.
Be cheap. Have your steak, fries, salad and 
bread for only $2.95 (regularly $4.95).
Drink. We have pitchers of cold, foamy beer. 
Sunday thru Thursday at Emersons.
So splurge. Cheaply.
LTDEMERSONS
Cocktails, wine and beer available.
North Hills-4611 McKnight Road-931-6707 
Monroeville — 3500 William Penn Highway — 824-1440
"Expires 12/75 and not good with other discounts or promotions"
gratulated for pulling off the best imitation 
of Kitty Carlisle this side of Skibo. It Was 
an inventive, sparkling touch of whimsy(, 
special kudo to Paula Shubock for design, 
ing a spectacular, powder-blue costumt 
loaded with rhinestones, feathers and-th- 
Carlisle trademark-a chiffony train).
Andrew Gillies was an impressiyj 
Jupiter, coupling his regality with j 
urgent, humane compassion that seeme 
ironically founded on the most instinct» 
of human emotions. Thea Moskat perform 
ed the difficult lead role of the enchant^ 
ly mortal wife, Alkmena, with an expertisi 
and a stunning singing voice. Her charactc 
seemed slighted, though, by a production! 
which focused unduly on secondary cha/j 
acters. Given Alkmena’s prominence am 
Ms. Moskat’s extraordinary vocal ability^ 
we should not have had to wait until tkj 
second act to hear her sing a note.
William Turner’s direction include! 
several fascinating conceptual ideas, such] 
having statues act as a marbelized Gre 
chorus. Yet, such ideas remained omJ 
half-developed, scantly plumbed. Like! 
everything about this “Amphitryon,” morj 
of what is now simply potential must 
realized and polished. Presently, “Amphit 
ryon” stands as a work-in-progress; a woil 
which could very possibly be the start o| 
something big.
summer¡neurope
65 DAY ADVANCE 
PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U.S. GOVT. APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TRANSAVIA
707 707 707
CHARTERS 
LESS THANJ/2
ECONOMY FARE
uni-travel charters 
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-3 25-4867«
Chatham College Presents
"WOMEN BY WOMEN”
May 5-8, 1975
A photographic exhibition 
in celebration of
1975 International 
Women’s Year
Open to Women, Photographers 
Amateurs & Professionals
• For Submission Requirements call: 
Toni Nuzzo — 441-8200 Ext. 442 
Call after 6:30 by April 25
SUMMER SOFTBALL LEAGUE 
(SLOW PITCH)
If you will be around this summer 
why not enter a team in 
the league?
STUDENTS - FACULTY - STAFF 
MEN - WOMEN 
ARE WELCOME
Applications available at Skibo Info. Desk 
Deadline: May 15
_______

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—April 22, 1975-Page 15
-or the EYES ONLY
A FOND FAREWELL
by Arnie Karr
j
I, Arnie Karr, being of sound mind and^ 
body and having come to the end of my 
well-spent and totally exhaustive academe 
career, do hereby acknowlege that thisis 
the last “For the Eyes Only” that I vjj 
write at Camegie-Mellon and do therefce 
find it necessary to distribute my remak­
ing thoughts on television real quic, 
before Wednesday’s deadline, lest I dj- 
appear from this institution without havig 
the final word.
TO THE STUDENTS OF CMU: Ya, 
believe it or not, regardless of your presat 
socio-sexual status, are the Mothers ad 
Fathers of the future. Some day your lite 
ones will come to you for advice and coi- 
panionship, and what will you do? Will yu 
give it to them freely, and free of charj? 
Or will your gaze stay fixed on the TV *t 
as you try to forget that they exist? Sr- 
veys indicate that television is a priie 
source of domestic discord in may 
middle-class American households and yu 
might as well face it, “middle class Afr­
ican” is what most of you are going to»e. 
So give it some thought every evening aer 
dinner when you and the Mr./Ms. live 
settled down to that first joint of the ay. 
Before you start watching a ballgame c a 
cop show on the tube, talk to your kids or 
a while. See what’s on their minds, iee 
what they want to watch.
TO GRADUATING STAR TEK 
FREAKS: You have watched mer.go 
where no men have gone before. Novit’s
time for you to make the trip. Do you have 
your maps and charts ready? Are you real­
ly prepared to be “launched” into the 
infinite and mysterious void known as The 
Real World? No, of course you’re not. You 
haven’t done a stitch of schoolwork since 
Kirk and the crew started re-running, about 
the same time you got here. You’ve got a 
lot of work to do before graduation. Per­
haps you should try Room222 re-runs. 
They’re only half an hour.
TO STEELER FANS: It took the Steel- 
ers a long, long time to become the 
champs, and it just might take them even 
longer to repeat the feat. Of course, they’re 
undeniably a great team and have my ad­
miration and best wishes, but, just in case 
victory proves to be more elusive in the 
future than it was in ’74-’75, please exer­
cise some self-control and don’t make good 
on your promises to waste the set after 
every defeat.
TO THOSE STILL MOURNING THE 
DEATH OF COLONEL HENRY BLAKE: 
You can relax. I saw him guest-hosting The 
Tonight Show just last week.
TO THOSE SEEKING THE PERFECT 
COFFEE COMMERCIAL: I just heard it. 
Try “Gold Turkey,” the latest album from 
the National Lampoon (actually a collec­
tion of the best from the “National Lam­
poon Radio Hour”). The track is called 
“My Husband” and it is in extremely poor 
taste. You’ll love it.
TO THOSE WHO MISSED RHODA’S 
WEDDING THE SECOND TIME: Be com-
©#\
SUMMER SESSIONS
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBUFGHJUNE 24 - AUGUST 13
Over 500 courses and workshops ¦ Day and evening classes 
Undergraduate and graduite classs ¦ Four regional campuses 
Special ecological field station ¦ Study abroad
Arts and Sciences, Education, Libary Science, Social Work, and Business
Tuition: $35 per credit for undergaduate Pennsylvania residents.
On - campus housing is also availate. No formal application is 
necessary. Just send this coupon fr a brochure:
MA IL TO :
Office of Summer Sessions 
G2 Cathedral of Learning 
University of Pittsburgh 
’ittsburgh , PA 1 52 60
Please snd me your brochure on University 
of Pittsbrgh su m m er classes:
NAME
ADOR BS
School urrently attending
forted. It was no different than the first 
one.
TO THOSE WHO READ THIS 
COLUMN RELIGIOUSLY: I appreciated 
your criticisms, compliments, advice and 
encouragement. Take care.
TO THOSE WHO SKIPPED “FOR THE 
EYES ONLY” THIS YEAR: Up your hole 
with a mellow roll.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, our 
National Anthem.
c>
Poor Willie
by Dolores M. Foster
“Little Willie Armstrong Jones” had the 
potential to be an excellent play. It failed 
because little details added up to big 
trouble. The entire play was not a loss, 
since individual performances and dances 
were outstanding, but not quite good 
enough to rescue the play.
Most trouble can be attributed to the 
play itself. The central idea was good, but 
it was obscured by minor details which 
made the central theme unclear. The play­
wright had a “thing” for repetition which 
detracted from the importance and signif­
icance of the lines. Too much dancing and 
singing in inappropriate places made the 
show too long and distracted attention 
from the story line. The playwright became 
carried away with explanatory monologues 
which could have been omitted altogether. 
If scenes have to be explained either they 
must be unclear in the first place or the 
playwright doesn’t give the audience credit 
for picking it up.
The acting was generally good, but some 
basic techniques that were ignored by the 
actors made some performances look ama­
teurish. Voices were not projected, jroles 
were unconvincing because of expression­
less intonations and rapid delivery. While 
the audience was laughing or applauding, 
actors were still saying their lines and 
ultimately the audience missed some im­
portant lines. There is nothing more dis­
tracting than seeing an actor walk around 
the stage aimlessly. One particular perform­
er who should have known better did a
stylized walk which hindered his acting.
One of the prostitutes was unconvincing 
in the role and was equally unconvincing as 
Bones’ girlfriend. In fact, you would have 
though the two roles were one when they 
were supposed to be distinctly different. 
Mama’s makeup needed some work and so 
did her portrayal as an old woman. The 
walk, gestures and voice of an old woman 
are slow and purposeful. The actress’ mis­
take should have been apparent in rehear­
sals and corrected.
The music for songs and dances was 
exceptional, but the background numbers 
between scenes lacked direction. The music 
did not prepare the audience for the next 
scene nor did it, accentuate the mood in 
any particular scene.
Most insulting were the actors who 
turned their backs on the audience while 
speaking their lines. There was some good 
acting however. Lola, the hooker, was 
quite good in her portrayal, especially in 
the scene with Willie when she confessed 
her love for him, told him off, and then 
threw him out of the house. Lola also did a 
fantastic dance that emphasized both her 
love and lust for Willie. Willie, Bones, Otis 
and Sally were other impressive perfor­
mances. The Pittsburgh Black Theatre 
Dance Ensemble was powerful, especially 
Derek Amaker, Melana Nelson, Umtogo 
Johnson, and Sherry Hoard. Bob Johnson’s 
choreography helped enhance the splendid 
dancing. The audience thoroughly enjoyed 
the entire play despite its length; but still, 
it could have been vastly improved with 
editing and corrections in music and acting.
X',
Among other things,
THE TUCKERS
Have
Used, Rare, & Out-Of-Print BOOKS
For Study or Pleasure For Owning or Giving 
(Free Search Service. Too!)
2703 MURRAY AVENUE, SQUIRREL HILL
(Around the corner from the Squirrel Hill Theater)
521-0249
(Hours flexible - best call ahead)

---------------------------------------------------

GIRLS......................ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER
COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants are now being con­
sidered for the 1975 camp season. Must be able to teach 
one of the following: Theater Director, Archery, Tennis 
Director, Golf, Photography, Scouting and Nature Study, 
A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water 
Skiing Instructor. Secretary also needed. Write Camp 
Director 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore Md. 21209.
CASH
FOR YOUR USEDBOOKS
CLOTH OR PAPER
WHETHER tSED ON THIS CAMPUS OR NOT 
We Biiy All \ ties Having Resale Market Value.
SELL THEM ALL
AT
Willy Frantz.....Man of The Year
photo by John Shettel
In volleybally, playing for the McGill- 
does, Willy made it to the intermediate 
playoffs.
In team table tennis, Frantz’s Oakland 
team finished second.
in basketball, Frantz’s Roadrunners won 
their division and made it to the semifinals.
In co-rec table tennis, the team of Willy 
Frantz and Janis Dearfield walked away 
with the trophy.
In softball, Willy’s Oakland A’s are un­
defeated, scoring 72 runs in four games.
Truly an impressive record for a Man of 
the Year.
sports
and a defeat in the playoffs. Frantz was 
voted MVP.
In soccer, Willy played for the Powder- 
kegs and they went to the semifinals.
This was all predicted two weeks ago 
when this reporter commented, “Willy 
Frantz will be IM Man of the Year.”
Finally, a prediction that has come true!
Golf Team Ties
by Griff Paulsen
Last week, the CMU golf team had two 
matches scheduled. John Carroll forfeited 
the first to the Tartans last Tuesday, be­
cause of a shortage of players. The other 
match, played last Thursday was a classic 
confrontation- a remarkably consistent 
Grove City team playing on their home 
course and trying to preserve a near-perfect 
home record against a CMU team which 
had not yet played to its potential.
The weather conditions were perfect for 
the first time all year and the nine-hole 
course was reasonable except for the mini­
ature marble-top greens. As it turned out, 
the last hole was the decisive one in the 
match.
Jack Arturo came to the last hole three 
over par and proceeded to hit his drive into 
the water and end up with the second best 
score of the day, a 76. The number one 
man from Grove City took an eight on the
last hole, without any penalty strokes and 
had a 78. All of Grove City’s scores were 
within three of his.
Bill Mackin, CMLPs sixth man in this 
match, hit his third shot in in the water on 
the 18th but chipped to within three feet 
to preserve a bogey six and a 79. Paul 
Minor shot the best score of the day, a 75, 
and was the only person to lower his score 
the second time they played the nine-hole 
course.
Remarkably, with all the strange things 
that happened on the eighteenth, the two 
teams ended up tied at 394, an average of
79. Obviously, the match could have gone 
either way many times on the last hole. 
Next week the golf team plays Westminster 
away on Monday, Allegheny home on 
Tuesday and travels to W&J to play their 
last match before the PAC tournament.
Frantz 
I.M. Man of 
The Year
Page 16 - THE TARTAN - April 22,1975
Hockey Wrap-
by Dave Girdany
At last, the CMU Tartans’ long hockey 
campaign is over and it is time ot offer a 
post-season analysis. First though, some 
statistics.
The CMU hockey team finished its sea­
son wjth seventeen wins, three losses and 
no ties. The Tartans scored 102 goals and 
allowed 45 in 18 games (two of the seven­
teen victories were by forfeit). Dave Cor­
nelius was the leading scorer with 43 
points. Matt Goldsmith scored the most 
goals—21.
Now for the awards. The following refer 
only to the Tartans.
Most Valuable Player-Tie between 
Larry Stuever and Mike Kenworthy
Best Offensive player—Dave Cornelius 
Best Defensive player—Larry Stuever 
Best Line—Cornelius, Tom Grimm and 
Matt Goldsmith
Most Injured player—Mike Gallaway 
Player Injured Longest—Tom Grimm 
Best Spirit—Tie between Grimm and 
Dave Girdany
Other awards for the season:
Best Game—CMU 3, Penn State 1 
Second Best Game—CMU 5, Penn State
4
Best Opposing Team (judged by play 
against CMU)—Pitt
Best Opposing Team (judged by overaS 
play)-Penn State
Most Valuable Player on Opposing 
Team-Johnny DeFazio, goaltender, Pitt 
Finally, I think that the CMU hockey 
team is the best I have seen this year (de­
spite three losses to Pitt), as well as being a 
great bunch of guys.
CMU Hockey Scoring Overall—Record 17-3-0
GP G AGPGAPTSPIM
Cornelius1816274333 j
Goldsmith1821113216 I
Kinworthy1814173122
Afturo181423266
Gallaway16714216
Gfimm13812206
Stuever178122033 Í
Hauser1884124
Leety72578
Eastman1115614
Miller1814527
Eberle181120
Bouse-0222
Graves10220
Wilkinson-0220
Hutchinson-1016
Fuchs-0112
Sciulli-01116 j
Johnston-0002 1Corbett-0002 JMcConnell-0004 1Total 102 132 
*2 minute bench penalty
234220209 1+2* Is
HAVEN’T YA HEARD...
by Mike Pochan
I could have told you this would happen 
way back in October when the headlines 
read, “PIKA Shatters Willy.s Dream.” Or in 
November when he claimed his team would 
win the soccer title. Or in December when 
he predicted a first place finish for table 
tennis team. Or in January when he stated 
his team would win the basketball title. Or 
two weeks ago when he said his team will 
win the softball trophy. Willy Frantz is IM 
Man of the Yea.
Willy Frantz, working out of Donner 
Hall for the past four hears, has become 
(in)famous for his organization of indepen­
dent sports teams that have competed 
against the toughest fraternity and grad­
uate teams.
Last year in the intermediate footbally 
league, Willy’s Oakland Dolphins captured 
the title with outstanding play. Moving in­
to the majors this year, the Dolphins 
showed the beat record with only one loss
FOLLETT COLLlGE BOOK CO.,
Chicago IllinoisI
