EXHIBITION NIGHT 
FKIDAY APRIL 24 ¡
7:00 P. M.atnBp Ätan
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
MUSIC HALL 11:30 A. M. TODAY 
ALL ENTERTAINMENT
VOL. XIX No. 28CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1925
SCHOOL WILL BE 
open fri. nite|: 
FOR INSPECTION :
PLEBE-SOPH SMOKER TO 
BE HELD IN UNION, MAY 2 •
SCHOLOCWIB Eop eInf SCri.B t.IIH SfoBIH
Annual Exhibition Will Serve 
to Display School 
Work
COMMERCIAL ENG. 
HAS LARGE EXHIBIT
Play at Little Theatre Will 
be Part of the Pro­
gram
A four-room brick bungalow built 
by students of building construction, 
a trip through the mine in the Depart­
ment of Mining Engineering, a dis­
play of gowns by the students of cos­
tume economics, and music recitals 
and dramatic performances in the Col­
lege of Pine Arts are a few of the 
features indicating the wide variety 
of entertainment that will be offered 
to the public at the annual exhibition 
Friday night, April 24.
One of the most distinctive fea­
tures of the evening will be the ex­
hibition of the Commercial Engineer­
ing Department. This will be the 
first year that this department has 
had anything to show the public 011 
Exhibition Night, but the exhibit will 
be one which will display to the 
greatest advantage one of the most 
important features of the Commer­
cial Course.
The exhibits will consist of samples 
of the products of the twenty-eight 
plants included in the co-operative 
course in Production and Distribu­
tion. In this course the seniors visit 
these plants, scattered over the coun­
ty, and are taken through the plants, 
thus getting a very good idea as to 
the type of products and the prob­
lems which must be met in produc­
ing them.
The exhibits will show the various 
products in the different, stages , of 
completion and will serve to show the 
public just what a wonderful work­
shop Pittsburgh is as practically all 
these'different products are manufac­
tured, within a radius of ten miles 
of Carnegie Tech.
This annual event at Carnegie, 
which each year attracts from five to 
fifteen thousand visitors, has become, 
almost, an “institution” in Pittsburgh. 
For the open night this year, a num­
ber of new and special feature will be 
added to the program.
One of these features will be the 
brick bungalow which has been built 
by students of both the day and night 
classes in the Department of Building 
Construction of the College of Indus­
tries. The bungalow, which was 
erected in the bricklaying and ma­
sonry shop, will be furnished for exhi- 
Continued on Page Four.)
The Plebe-Soph smoker is ¦ 
less than two weeks off. This • 
affair is to get the Freshmen • 
and the Sophomores better ac- ¦ 
quainted in a friendly way. ¦ 
Since the Plebes this year are • 
no exception to the general • 
rule^tliey have by now an opin- • 
ion of most of the Sophomores < 
as group of fellows who are • 
like plainclothesmen, always • 
ready to jump on a Plebe who • 
has forgotten his dink. It is up ¦ 
to the Sophomores to correct • 
this wrong impression. The • 
date and the place: The Union, • 
Saturday, the second of May.
FOUR ARE CHOSEN 
FOR COUNCIL HEAD
Four Schools Select Beede, 
Harris, Yoder and 
White
ALL WELL-KNOWN
Waring’s Orchestra 
Pleases At Gambol
Pickaninnies Also Entertain 
at Industries Frolic
Tile Gambol of the Guilds, Indus- 
tries biggest social splurge of the 
school year, took place last Friday 
evening in the Union. The event had 
been heralded for some time in ad­
vance and as a result was well pat­
ronized. Large numbers from the 
other schools helped the Industries 
men to celebrate their function in a 
manner. fitting and proper.
A few days before the dance, the 
committee through untiring efforts of 
Harry Peterson, was able to acquire 
Waring’s Royai Garden Orchestra, 
who played at W. and J. the follow­
ing night. ITliSs step assured the 
success of the affair, for the music 
they served kept the dancers enliv­
ened from the time they came until 
the last dance. During the middle 
of the evening, the “Pickaninnies” of 
Arts Ball and Soph Hop fame in­
terrupted the dancing to give a few 
interpretations of their own. They 
-were well received as evidenced by 
the applause.
Time out was again called at twelve 
o’clock, this time to serve refresh­
ments consisting of punch and cakes. 
Three more dances followed which 
brought the festivities to one o’clock 
when the orchestra checked out, 
closely followed by the satisfied stu­
dents who voted it one of the best 
dances of the year.
Last Tuesday each of the four 
schools elected a representative for 
president of the Student Council. 
Two elections were necessary in 
Margaret Morrison, as no candidate 
received a majority in the first one. 
In the final election Barbara White 
received the majority. Early in her 
college career, Barbara showed her 
qualities of leadership, and was 
elected prefeident in her Fresh­
man. In her Sophomore year .she 
was a member' of the Margaret Mor­
rison Senate. She is now a Junior 
of the English Minor Department, 
and is ^secretary of the M. M. Sen­
ate. She has given capable service 
on numerous committees, and is 
one of the most popular girls of her 
class.
Fine Arts has chosen Lloys Yoder 
whose versatile activities have made 
him one of the best known men on 
the campus. Lloys is a Junior in 
the Drama Department, a member .01’ 
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, 
and a member of the Druid and 
Delta Skull honorary' societies. 1-le 
was one of the stars of last year's 
varsity football team, and has served 
on the Arts Ball and Junior Prom 
Coommittees.
Jack Harris, a Junior in the De­
partment of Metallurgical Engineer­
ing, has been elected from Science. 
Jack is a member oi the Theta Xi 
fraternity, and of the Delta ¡Skull 
honorary. He is best known for 
his work in athleti£s, having been 
on the varsity basket ball squad, and 
being first assistant baseball man­
ager. He has also been vice presi­
dent of the Science Senate.
Industries has elected Dwight 
Beede, whose star playing on last 
year’s varsity football team has en­
deared him to the hearts of all of 
us. "Dike" is a Junior in the Build­
ing Construction course, a member 
oof the Druid and Delta Skull hon­
orary societies, and the Kappa Sigma 
fraternity. He was president of the 
Industries Sophomore class last year, 
is treasurer of the Industries Sen­
ate, and a Student Council represen­
tative. Beede is also a good basket 
ball player, having earned his letter 
last season with the varsity floor 
(Continued on Page Four.)
BUMMERS ORGANIZE! 
D PHI N CHAPTER HERE
Some time ago, The Carnegie Tar­
tan published an article telling about' 
a contemplated organization for col­
legiate bummers. This organization 
is about to show its hand and to pre­
sent itself upon the Campus as one 
of Carnegie's distinctive organiza­
tions.
There arer at Carnegie probably 
more real energetic bummers than 
at any other college in the east. Car­
negie’s men take to bumming like 
a duck to water, instinctively.
Bethany, Penn State, Ohio State, 
and a few other schools have an es­
tablished Bummers Club, called D 
Phi N ( D Phi N represents respec­
tively the Latin, Greek, and English 
for “God, Friendship, and Adven­
ture”). For that matter, so has Car­
negie a D Phi N chapter.
I This evening at the Y. M. C. A. 
club room in Scobell Hall at 7:30 all 
I men interested in this club will gath- 
ler to hear more about the organiza­
tion.
Gloria Swanson Voted Favorite
Star--Picture in Today’s Puppet
Puppet’s Popularity Contest to de­
termine America’s favorite actress of 
screen and stage is now closed and 
Carnegie students by popular vote, 
have awarded the front piece of to­
day’s stage and screen issue of The 
Puppet to. Gloria Swanson, world- 
famous movie star.
This contest has aroused a good 
deal of student interest during its 
run of three weeks, as a result over 
175 votes were cast for 10 different 
stage and screen luminaries. Norma 
Talmadge received the second high­
est number of votes and honorable 
mention was given Mitzi, of Magic
Ring fame, and Elsie Janis, versatile 
stage stan.
The winner’s picture only will be 
featured in The Puppet. It is'auto- 
graphfcd by Gloria herself, with spe­
cial regard to The Puppet; this fam­
ous star seemed to follow the con­
test with a great deal of interest.
The Puppet, out today, bigger, 
brighter, and better than ever, will 
amuse you for a month with the 
many quips and sallies at the silver 
screen and the stage, legitimate and 
illegimate- Every student ought to 
buy a copy today and keep up-to-date 
on theatrical matters.
* MAY DANCE TO E HELD 
•I* IN UNION BY CLEF CLUB
A festivo May Dance will bo • 
,•»* held in the Carnegie Union on 
Saturday, tho ninth of May by 
the Carnegie Clef Club.
An orchestra extraordinary ¦ 
*!* has been engaged for the occa- • 
sion and will be announced In • 
the next issuo of The 'Partan. •
* Obie Newman will warble his • 
•I* latest songs in his sweet tenor •
* voice as an added attraction to • 
•> the big evening.
* The committee in charge of • 
the affair is composed of Allan ¦
*:• V. Norn, chairman; Cal Lund- *
* quist and Fred D. Rossini.
|:SFRNPT WEEK 
THOW BOFTeT 
: GOOD SHORPT
Resume Rehearsals Under 
Leadership of Kimball 
and Miss Davies
TICKET PRICES
ARE ANNOUNCED
! ENTERTAINMENT TO 
FEATURE ASSEMBLE
Two Thousand Seats to be 
Disposed of at Prices From 
$1.00 to $1.75
Fourteen girls were chosen from the senior class of Carnegie Tech' as candidates for the enviable position of 
Campus Week Queen. Campus Week, an annual institution at the school, starts May 14. Thursday, April 30, three 
of the 14 girls will be chosen by a student vote and a few days later one of the three will be selected for the cov­
eted position. The girls chosen are, top: Ellen Eyman, Lorain, O.; Grace Munhall, Pittsburgh; Louie Boggess,
Clarksburg, W. Va.; Margaret Taylor, Dover, O.; center: Bernice Rentz, Williamsport; Dorothy Schmalhorst, Cin­
cinnati; Dorothy Diamond, Wilkinsburg; Mary Brown, Cleveland; below: Elizabeth Lindsey, Bradford; Elizabeth 
Kiefer, Altoona; Eva Spencer, Dormont; Lois Snyder, Dormont; Margaret McFall, Monongahela.
WLHHLHg SCri.B WIIk TlogCH LB
“.LIW’B RICnf WfI NICk Eop S. W.”
After a hectio week of research, 
revision, and careful study, the win­
ning slogan has been announced by 
the judges: “Let’s reach the peak 
for Campus Week,” the contribution 
of A. V. Nern.
Both Professor Follows and Dr. 
Schoen were unanimous in their 
choice of this slogan and hence the 
twenty dollar award goes to A1 
Nern. The prize will be awarded at 
General Assembly today.
A hundred and thirty-five slogans 
were submitted, most of them ined- 
ibcre, and were carefully considered 
by the judges. Professor Follows of 
the Commercial Department, who 
served as one of the seers, is an old 
hand in the letter-writing game and 
has made a special study of the ef­
fect and value of words. Dr. Schoen,
tho other sage, is a specialist in 
psychology and is especially versed 
in Ijiie art of persuasion by sugges­
tion.
The* slogan itself was choson be­
cause of its appeal, rhythm, brevity 
and concise wording. Its actual mer­
it will probably be questioned by 
most of Its readers at first—partic­
ularly by the other contestants—but 
a more thorough study of tho exhor­
tation will bring to light unsuspect­
ed depths.
Al Nern, the successful composer, 
Is a Woodlawn man, who has served 
his apprenticeship 011 tho editorial 
I staff of The Tartan. Combining his 
j natural knack for writing with the 
! cultivated taste for harmony of a 
(• music student, it is not surprising 
J that he carried off first honors.
MARDI GRAS TO BE 
HELD IN UNION GYM
R. V. WHEELER TO 
SPEAK THIS WEEK
Steel City Collegians and 
Collegiate Imps Will 
Furnish Music
Director of Fuel Technology 
at Sheffield to Discuss 
Origin of Coal
COSTUMES NECESSARY IN UNION WED.-THURS. 
---------------
Having secured the Steel City Col- 
lqgions and the Collegiate Imps as 
the orchestras for the Mardi Gras, 
it has been decided that everyone 
wishing to- attend the greatest Car­
negie dance of the year, must fulfill 
the ^spirit of the party and wear a 
costume.
Ideas for new and attractive dis­
guises are already being formed by 
many who wish to present something 
startling at the costume review. 
Everyone will be camouflaged for the 
evening, the raiment will be but tem­
porary, the remembrance everlasting. 
Magnificent as will be the lighting 
display, unrivaled as will be the or­
chestras, gaily decorated as will be 
the Union and Gymnasium, all will 
bow in wonder to multicolored dress 
of the merry throng,. Moral: two
thousand years ago Aesop said, “Get 
thy costume ready for the Mardi 
Gras".
After consideration of bids by na­
tionally famous orchestras, home tal­
ent has been decided upon as the 
best. The same music makers will 
function at the Coronation Dance 
Thursday night as at the Mardi Gras 
Friday night..
With the Collegians in the Gym 
and the Imps In the Union, the Im­
pulse is assured; with a color effect 
that involves alluring decorations, 
the setting is complete; with every­
one in the finest costume he and she 
can devise, the atmosphere is perfect, 
and with the great spirit of Campus 
Week the joy fest passes from the 
mundane to the ethereal.
Acoustical engineers have tested 
the sounding qualities of the new 
Gym, and have located the best posi­
tion for the orchestra so that all can 
hear their shuffling bars and notes. 
The construction of a large resound- 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Dr. R. V. Wheeler, professor of Fuel 
Technology at the University of Shef­
field, and director of the Mines De­
partment Experimental Station of 
Great Britain, will give two public 
lectures next Wednesday and Thurs­
day evenings. Wednesday night he 
will discuss “Constitution and Origin 
of Coal,” and on Thursday night his 
subject will be “The Relation of Con­
stitution and Origin of Coal to Prac­
tical Problems in Mining,' Storage 
and Utilization.”
Dr. Wheeler, who gave several lec­
tures last year, is considered to be 
the British authority on coal, and one 
of the world’s authorities on the con­
stitution and origin of coal. For many 
years, he has been carrying on re­
search on the constitution and origin 
of coal in order to obtain fundamental 
information on which to solve the 
practical problems of the most effi­
cient utilization of coal, the preven­
tion 01' mine fires and dust explosions, 
Tho lectures by Dr. Wheeler are 
scheduled for 8:30 each evening In tho 
Carnegie Union, and will be free to 
the public. It is expected that a large 
number of Pittsburgh coal operators 
ahd engineers, chemists and other 
scientists interested in the subject 
will attend.
In connection with the Wheeler lec­
tures, announcement Is also made 
that an all-day conference on coal and 
its utilization will be held at the 
Pittsburgh Experiment Station of the 
United States Bureau of Mines from 
10a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Thursday, April 
23. A. C. Fieldner, superintendent of 
the Pittsburgh Experiment Station, 
will serve as chairman of the all-day 
conference and will also lead the dis­
cussion following each of the two lec- 
(CoDtinued on Page Four.)
EIEeEEN GIRLT 
ELIGIBLE EOR 
tPEEN OE S. W.
First Ballot Shows Trend 
of Students Toward This 
Year’s Queen
BEAUTY WINNERS 
ARE STILL IN RACE
Next Vote For Three Will 
be Held Thursday, 
April 28
The first reply to tho Important 
question, Who will bo Campus 
Queen? was made last Thursday at 
the first primary, by tho rosults of 
which fifteen senior girls remain 
eligible for tho next Balloting, Thurs­
day, April 30.
In alphabetical order tho winners 
are Louise Boggus, Mary Brown, 
Dorothy Diamond, Ellen Eyman, 
Elizabeth Keefer, Elizabeth Lindsey, 
Margaret McFall, Grace Munhall, 
Bernice Rentz, Dorothy Schmallhorst, 
Lois Snyder. Mary Speers, Eva 
Spencer, Peg Taylor, and Anne Wit­
tum. All Carnegie has designated 
these co-edB as eligible for the reign­
ing beauty of Campus Week, so from 
this group will come the fourteen 
handmaids of the queen, the fifteenth 
will be the queen.
Pictures of the victors will be 
posted so that all will have an op­
portunity of forming an opinion. Vot­
ing rakes only a few minutes ordi­
narily, but with the election system 
and officials as furnished at this con­
test, the expression of desire in bal- 
(Contlnued on Page Four).
Program Will Consist of 
Stunts Only; Expect Big 
Attendance
VOTE ON AMENDMENT
Tho program for assembly this 
morning promises to bo ono of the 
most entertaining of the year, and 
Judging from the interest tho stu­
dents have shown of late in Assemb­
ly, tho Music hall should bo well 
filled. «
Oble Nowman, who has charge of 
the programs has secured somo of 
tho best talent of tho school for to­
day's entertainment.
Dave Garber and his Kiltie Band 
Orchostra will start the program. 
rPhls Is tho . first timo tho Kiltie Or­
chestra has played* at Assembly and 
judging from tho EXHHIBE of their re­
cent trip oast, they should afford a 
roal treat for those present.
Al MlnOt.ll and Jimmy Daschbach 
will presont ono of tholr inimitable 
stunts. They havo not divulged tho. 
title of tho stunt as yet,
Zabollo Davis and Warron Kimball 
will present another of their popular 
dances.
Ruth Aston and Jack TIornnr are 
going to oatortaln by a number of 
songs and dancos; although Freshmen 
In the Drama department both have 
proved assembly favorites and this 
number promluos to bo ono of their 
best'.
Iflddlo Newman will sing a num­
ber of songs with Al Johnston at tho 
piano. Tho two should present a 
musical combination, hard to heal.
In addition lo tho program above, 
thoro will lie several Important an- 
nouncemenlH made by the President 
of tho Student Connell.
MEN INVITED TO
BRIDGE SATURDAY
Noxl Saturday brings tho tntor- 
Sororlty bonofll, bridge. All plana 
have boon mado to make tho party a 
very lovely affair. .The brldgo Is pe- 
Ing held at tho Mnrrowilold Hotel on 
Murray avenue, al; two-thirty o’clock. 
Tho loo Is one dollar per person.
Tho alumnae are being called upon 
to turn out In largo numbers and 
show their intorost In tho activities 
of the sororities. Tho brldgo Is a ben- 
eiit to raise funds to support the 
Inter-Sorority Scholarship. This 
scholarship is given to any worthy 
young woman of tho Collogo of Flno 
Arts. Tho supporL of the alumnae 
will be appreciated very much.
ASSEMBLY TO ACT ON 
COUNCIL AMENDMENT
A.A.U.W. Recognizes M.M.; 
Plan Bridge For Monday
t The American Association of Uni­
versity Women at its meeting In In­
dianapolis just before Easter admit­
ted to full national membership the 
Margaret Morrison College. Holders 
of degrees from the Margaret Morri­
son may join any branch of the A. A. 
U. W. as regular full members. Ap­
plication may be made through the 
Margaret Morrison office, or through 
Miss -Hlbbs, Alumni Office, 
j The Pittsburgh Branch of the A. A. 
IT. W. is giving a benefit bridge party 
on the evening of Monday, April 27, 
at the Hotel Schenley. The proceeds 
of this bridge will be used to help pay 
off the Indebtedness of the National j 
' Association Club House in Washing­
ton, D. C.
I All Margaret Morrison graduates I 
j are -urged to buy tickets for the j 
I bridge. Take your husbands and your 
j men friends. Miss Harriet F. Glen-1 
[ don, head of the Household Eco- 
J nomics Department, Is chairman. Or- 
; der tickets either through her or ' 
I through the office. i
The Student Council, at Its rogu- 
lar meeting last Tuesday night, de­
ckled to submit the following amend­
ment of its constitution to the stu­
dent body at General Assembly to­
day.
“In case the vice president’s suc­
ceeding to the presidency, another 
vice president shall be elected from 
and by the Student Council.”
If the student body acts favorably 
on this amendment, it becomes a part 
of the Constitution of the Student 
Council.
The committee of the recent Fools’ 
Day celebration was commended for 
the successful result of Its endea­
vors, and Mr. A. S. Andrews, chair­
man of the ôommlttee, was Instructed 
to attend to the inclusion of Fools’ 
Day in next year’s calendar.
After some discussion, the regula­
tions committee was instructed to 
look into tho matter of non-degree 
men’s obeying regulations.
Collegiatoly speaking, this Campus 
Week Show isn’t going to he hard 
to look at atall. We were lucky 
enough to get a peep at the clior- 
¦uses during the past week, and It 
they hdven t got a bevy a beauties 
which will make Flo Ziegfield get 
green eyed; well, we don’t know 
anything about it at all. Warren 
Kimball and Zabelle Davies have 
been getting In some hard licks with 
their respective chorusers, and tho 
results are beginning to tell. While 
tho dance step’s aren't quite Qloek- 
like yet In their execution, at least 
they are run off like an lugersoll, 
a little off time, but still approxi­
mate.
All kidding asido, this chorus is 
good. They can all sing, too—that 
Is, all but ten or twelve, and they’re 
the ones you go to look at. If u 
girl’s pretty, she doesn’t have to 
sing, and if in addition she can 
danco, well, judge for yourself.
Don’t forgot about the boys. OC 
course they're handicapped by being 
on tho stage at tho same time as 
tho girls, hut nevertheless, wo be­
lieve that they’ll get a lot of atten­
tion. YVo aren’t, announcing the 
namos of the chorus yet, but there 
are some boys In It who Insinuate a 
mighty masterful step.
Rehearsals of the cast liuvo been 
discontinued over tho Waster vaca­
tion but with the return of Mr. On- 
borne, who hi directing the play, they 
will be started again, Tho songti 
and lyrics are coming ulong well, un<| 
the plans in general are coming 
along nlculy.
Business Manager Sload lias final­
ly completed bin seating arrange­
ments, Tho sale of tlifltots for tho 
play will be handled by Hums Roller, 
and the prices will be an follows: 
First Moor, and first live rows lu 
first balcony, 1.75; first balcony, and 
Hr fat ilvo rows In the second bal­
cony, ,jll.{>0, The remaining son 1m, 
will he ono dollar. Thoro aro ujv-. 
prdxjma-toly two thousand sonin. 
available. There are about twenty- 
five hundred day students, two tlVou- 
finnd night students, one lliousand- 
alumnl who will return, and severeli 
hundred friends of tho studeuin sylin> 
Continued on Paco Four.j' , ]
Shakespearean Play 
Commences April 23
“Merry 'Wives of Winsdor’’ 
Will Present Large Cast
Commemorating Shakes peare’s 
birthday, April 23, the Drama Depart­
ment. will play "The Merry vVives of 
Windsor” on that day. The play will 
be by far the most pretentious of the 
season, with its complicated scene» 
and its large cast. Beu Weinblatt 
and Harold Shaugheney are doing the 
difficult part of Falstaff, one of tho 
famous roles of Shakespeare’s com­
edy. Harry Mervls, Herbert Polesie, 
Ellsworth Perrin, William Dickey, 
James Resley, Mary Brown, and Ida 
Crouse are carrying the more difficult 
parts of the comedy. Mr. Payne, of 
the Drama Department, who has so 
cleverly handled Shakespeare, is di­
recting this season’s- Shakespearean 
play.
The play leads the characters into 
ludicrous situations. Falstaff, a 
portly but polished rogue, carries on 
love affairs with the women of Wind­
sor, until, becoming so inextricably 
enmeshed in his affairs, he doesn't 
know where he stands. The hus­
bands of these disillusioned women 
of Windsor suspect Falstaff and com­
bine to catch him, but fail. But, 
Falstaff’s tact Is a deal insufficient 
to fool the people all the time. He 
is finally trapped. The women re­
main true to their husbands, Fals- 
taff sinks Into Ignominy and domes­
tic tranquility once more prevails.
Sale of Campus Week Courier
Subscriptions Start This Week
.Subscriptions are now on sale for 
the Campus Week Courier, tho dally 
paper which will appear on the 
Campus Thursday, Friday and Sat­
urday mornings, May 14, 15 and 16. 
This year tho paper Is going to be 
written in the afternoon, set up in 
the late evening and printed during 
the night, assuring the students of 
the latest and freshest news.
The price for the three issues, de­
livered at your door on the morning 
of publication, is 15 cnts, v/ithin the
reach of tho entire student body.
Art Buhr, of tho Puppet Staff arid 
Circulation Manager of the Courier." 
urges that all fraternities subscribe 
In full by adding 15 cents to each 
man's general campus week assess­
ment, Canvassers will solicit sub­
scriptions of the different women’s* 
and men’s dormitories and the vari­
ous fraternity houses and it is hoped 
that . students will be prepared to 
Biibscrlbe. The Campus Week 
Courier Is an institution, a tradition 
which must be supported by every 
student of Carnegie.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1925
Rattan
Published every week hy undergraduates of the Carnegie institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the PoBtoillce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH....................................................................................Schcnloy 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITOR3
F\ D. ROSSINI A. E. KROQH E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
L. H. Harr I B A. F. Carson R. It. Sltzler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR
FRED T. PHELPS.................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ..........................................................................................Schenley 907«
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547-J
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS................................................................................................Bchonley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Lepper, M. Ilolllnshoad; M. Dutt, E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. Rons, II. L. Myers, L. V, Twohlg, F Finn,
R A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. WIngold, L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Kim*
tnel, R. M. Pew, F. 0. Woodn._______________________________________________________
ATHLETIC EDITOR 
J. CHRISTOFF .......................................................................................Schenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Follor, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Da­
vidson, B. Krlstof, J. R. Bracken.'
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. OIBSON.........................................................................................Schenley 9211
N. C. WESEIt, Assistant.......................................................................Schenley 9122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE H. CARL................................................................................Schenley 0393-M
CIRCULATION MANAGER
N. MOSKOVITZ ........................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L, Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerlo, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, H. ICandell, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbblo, Gladys Reynolds, W. A. Bernard!.________
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the
Managing Editor for the make up. ______________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed.
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news Items must be In the student
post office before 4:.’10 Thursday.
Tartan Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Office hours—Daily 12:30- 
1:20.
CAMPUS WEEK
Time passes, as Time has a habit, ol! doing, and TOH find that Cam­
pus ’Week is a mere matter ol: four weeks away. The program is com­
pleted; most oi! the arrangements for the various events have been 
completed; the work on “Collegiatcly Speaking,” the play, is prog­
ressing rapidly. In short, with the experience of the past live Wfcelcs 
before us, we may reasonably hope for the best Campus Week which 
we have yet Held.
\ye believe that there is not a student at Carnegie Tech who 
does not expect to have a'wondex’ful time during that week and 
to enjoy to the utmost all the opportunities for forgetting his trou­
bles. AVhat few of us realize is the immense amount of work in­
volved. Doubtless many of the students are getting tired of hearing 
someone always telling them how much work other people arc doing, 
lint the fact remains that most of the work around the campus is 
done by a relatively small group of students.
During1 the week preceding Campus Week most of the material 
work will, have to.be done. All the plans will be complete, and the 
actual, erection of the various accessories to the events will'be in 
order. Here is where the students can lend a hand. The Campus 
Week committee needs help. Even though, the committee, by itself, 
could manage somehow to do all the work necessary, we think that 
the students owo enough to ihis committee to try to relieve it, il! ever 
so little, of some of the more ardous tasks.
If you see any one working on Campus Week work, step up 
and oilier your services: they will bo appreciated. And it will make 
OampuH \Veek u little more precious to you il! you know that }rou 
really DID something to make it olVective.
VOeING
Once moro we come up with, a plea ol! "Voto.” Now that the 
cm,on l'or .Student Council President have boon chosen, the class elec­
tions must be hold. Tiro classes aro the organizations, functioning 
'below the Student Council, in the administration ol’ student alfairs, 
NGFKD their ol'/iqprs aro almost as importuni, as those ol' the council. 
Don’t forgot to vote for them when the time comes, and vote ¡niel­
li i gently,
SENIOR HATS
Hy the way, what’s become ol' the Senior I Inis. At the begin­
ning ol’ the year, a certain group ol' students bought their Senior hats, 
and are still wearing them. The rest of the class apparently knows 
nothing at all about them, or else the matter has entirely slipped its 
¡mind. Those hats should bo worn by every Senior during Campus 
Week, il! at no other time to enable people to recognize them as men 
who will, graduate from Carnegie Tech this year, II’ these hats are 
not approved by the majority ol’ Iluì Seniors, then get something else 
for next year. But this year the hats wore decided upon as distinctive 
Senior apparel. The Seniors should at least support their own ideas, 
even though they have altered them in the meanwhile.
TW.OIHW SClIHOCp
TUESDAY, APRIL 21.
General Assembly............................................11:30 A. M., Music Hall
THURSDAY, APRIL 23 ,
Chapel............................................................12:50 P. Jr., Little Theater
“Merrv "Wives oi: "Windsor”...........................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, APRIL 21
Exhibition Night....................................................................-~7 :00 P. M.
“Merry Wives oi5 "Windsor”.....*...................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, APRIL 25
Baseball—Plebcs vs. Bellefonte Academy 3:30 1’. M., Tresser Field
*‘Merry Wives of Windsor”........................>.8:15 P. M., Little Theater
MONDAY, APRIL 27
¦“Merry Wives oi Windsor”..........................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY, APRIL 28
“Merry Wives of Windsor”..........................8:15 P. M,, Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29
Baseball—Blobes vs. Indiana Normal..................................At Indiana
“Merry AYivos ol: Windsor”..........................8:15 P. M,, Little Theater
THURSDAY, APRIL 3(1
Ohapel.............................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
Basobail—Juniata ...........................................................At Huntingdon
“Merry Wives ot Windsor”..........................8:15 P. M.. Little Theater
FRIDAY, MAY 1.
Baseball- BueUnelI ..........................................................At Lowisburg
“Merry Wives ol! Windsor”..........................8:15 I*. M, Little Theater
SATURDAY, MAY 2
Baseball- Penn State.....................................................U Stale College
Chemical Kngiiieers' Theater Parly..............8:15 P. M.. l/'ltle Theater
Steel City Collegians to 
Play For Newman Formal
With less than two weeks remain­
ing before the Newman Club formal, 
the committee is rushing all ar­
rangements to completion. Tickets 
are now being distributed in the 
three local schools, but may be se> 
cured the night of the dance at the 
door. The Steel City Collegians, the 
popular Pittsburgh orchestra, has 
fceen acquired to furnish the synco­
pation. The hall room of the K. of 
C. Council House will be elaborately 
decorated for the occasion. 'Supper 
will come to' the rescue of hungry 
¦dancers about twelve-thirty and the 
dance will end at two o’clock. No
efforts have 'boon spared lo nmlco 
this the Nowmim Club's most suc­
cessful formal.
A tin nee, preliminary lo the formal, 
will‘bo hold on Wednesday evening, 
April 2!), mid is open to nil mem­
bers of the club. The Newman
Musicians will furnish the music for
this occasion. During the evening, 
one ticket for the formal, two even­
ings later, will be given away. The 
Wednesday evening dance will take 
place in the gymnasium of the
Cathedral High School on Craig 
street.
SCHENLEY
A program of big photoplays and 
exceptionally fine music has been ar­
ranged by General Manager Harry
efI WIIk 
LH WfI 
WoplO’B NIwB
By Leslie P. Beebe
1. The Failure of Premier Herrlot.
2. The New French Cabinet.
Desperately racing from one politi­
cal crisis to another in the vain en­
deavor to put the French finance« on 
their feet and to get Home unity In 
the two Houses for other measures, 
the situation has Himmered down to 
the cabinet formed by M. Palnleve 
and presented to President Doumer-
BUG.
For two year» the financial situa­
tion in France has been acute, but by 
continued borrowing they have kept 
their heads above, water. The end 
of borrowing must come, for it, in 
time, only make« the situation more 
acute and that 1A the stage in which 
France has arrived. Borrowing will 
not help and the easiest- solution is 
to Issue paper money. Premier Her­
rlot in a very wise statement set 
forth ills financial policy in which lie 
said that the only possible solution 
was to cut down expenditures and 
increaso the taxes. A number of his 
colleagues, however, would not agree 
and trouble has resulted.
The Immediate situation has been 
created through the failure of the 
government to balance its budget and 
the necessity of calling on the Bank 
of France to finance them. This ac­
tion has caused the increase of the 
indebtedness of France by 2,000,000,- 
000 francs above the legal rate with­
out authorization. A voluntary capi­
tal levy of /ten per cent was pro­
posed and incorporated in the De 
Monzle bill, but in the final passage 
Premier Herrlot found that tills sec­
tion would not go through and on six 
p. m., April 7, announced his inten­
tion to resign.
Premier ITerriot’s friends pemiaded 
him to go on and see what he could 
do, and reconsidering the matter he 
decided to attempt to rally his forces 
again. The next d^iy, in a rather 
stormy session, he asked for a vote 
of confidence and failed, the vote be­
ing 200 for him and 246 against. By 
a system of complicated discounts 
and rediscounts, the published, note 
circulation of the Bank of France had 
boon kept down to the legal limit of 
'11,000,000,000 whereas in reality it 
was -13,000,000,000. This scandal had 
leaked out and killed the vote. On 
•Saturday, April 11, Premier Herrlot 
and his entire cabinet resigned.
The Prosldent of France then 
l.urnod to Paul Palnleve, President 
of the Chamber of Deputies, to form 
a government to take the place of 
the Herrlot cabinet. It was hoped 
that Palnleve, who wns a mombor of 
the Loft, could swing that, group 
ovor. Later in the same day he 
found the task too great ancLso Pres­
ident Doumorguo called upon Brland. 
On the thirteenth of the month, 
Brland announced that a list of cabi- 
not members, a bill dologallzlng the 
additional two billion francs, and a 
now fimince bill would ho forthcom­
ing. During those fow days, tlio 
troasuror was malting repeated calls, 
on I,ho Bank of France for money. 
Tills was dally Increasing the note 
circulation without Jogal ponnlnslon. 
Prosldent ltoblnoanii in a desperate 
moment threatened to oloso the bank 
unless steps wore taken Immediately 
to remedy the situation.
On the fourteenth, Brland found 
that he could not got the necessary 
backing, and Palnleve was called In 
for I lie second time to attempt to 
form a new cabinet. Three days lator 
he announced the following list:
President of the Council and Min* 
Inter ol! War. Paul Palnleve; Vice 
President: ol the Council and Minis­
ter of Justice, Sonar,').' Julius Stieg; 
Minister of Foreign Affairs, Aristide 
Brland; Minister of Finance, Joseph 
Calliaux; Minister of interior, Sena­
tor Shrnmock; Minister' of Marine. 
Emil Borel; M. lister of Commerce, 
Sonator Charles Chaumet* Minister 
of Colonies, Andre Hesse; Minister 
of Labor, Antoine Durafour; Minister 
of Education, Anatole De 'Monfcie; 
Minister of Public Works, Pierre 
Laval; Minister of Agriculture, Jean 
Duran.
Of particular interest in the list 
is the name of Joseph Caillaux, who 
was convicted four years ago of trea­
son, narrowly escaped the firing squad, 
was sentenced to ten years of ban­
ishment from the capitol and loss of 
civil rights, and was pardoned by the 
Amnesty hill. This man, a very bril­
liant financier, is now called upon to 
re-establish France’s fiscal stability. 
His greatest drawback is the large 
number of men who remember him 
as a traitor and who will refuse to 
co-operate with him. Caillaux’s pol­
icy, as given to the newspaper men, 
was to reduce expenses, increase tax­
ation, and fund the floating debt. No 
more sound policy could exist and it: 
is the only one that can put France 
on her feet,. It' is however, a grave 
quostion whether Painleve and Cail­
laux can got unity enough to accom­
plish thoir purpose. A big political 
storm acorns to be brewing, and the 
only answer Is a goneral election.
Davis of the Schenley theater for pre­
sentation there during this week. On 
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday D. 
W. (Irlfilth's massive production, "Or- 
prans of the Storm," will be the head­
line attraction. Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday will bring the presentation 
of' the I’nlversal Jewel production, 
"Smouldering Fires," which has .Pau­
line Frederick, Laura La Plante and 
Malcolm McGregor in the principal 
roles. Throughout the week the 
Royal Garden Orchestra, clever expon­
ents of popular and syncopated music, 
will be an added attraction. With 
"Orphans of the Storm” a clever 
comedy and up-to-the-minute news 
pictures will be shown. Accompany­
ing “Shouldering Fires” will be a com­
edy, the News Weekly, a novelty re­
view and one of the popular Aesop’s 
Fables will complete the bill.
That’s That
We find ourselves—notice that we 
use the plural today—In hot, not to 
say boiling water over our column of 
last week. And yet in spite of the 
fact that our life is scarcely safe 
when within a mile of Margaret Mor­
rison or the College of Fine Arts, 
when we are alone, we still hold to 
our views as expressed last week.
We really did not mean to be in­
sulting or write in a sense of dero­
gatory to the co-eds of Carnegie, and 
if our column was taken in that 
sense, we are sorry. However, we 
have not yet been convinced that our 
Ideas are particularly wrong.
There is a letter in our letter box 
in reference to the above mentioned 
article. We pass lightly over the re­
ference to our experience, the prob­
able character of our future wife, and 
the question of getting tired of a pal 
or a plaything. We pause a moment 
upon the people mentioned as refut­
ing our assertion, Joan of ;\rc, Mme. 
Curio, and George Eliot. We beg to 
admit that we have heard of them. 
Joan of Arc was a girl who dressed 
in man’s clothing, and almost suc­
ceeded in emancipating her country. 
She was a decidedly manlsh type, 
hence is a special example and can­
not be used in this connection.
Mme. Curie, we believe, while do­
ing work with her husband approach­
ed our idea of a machine, and rather 
supports our idea.
George Eliot, far from posing as 
tlio pal of a man, tried, to conceal 
the .fact that she was a woman, for 
she realized that as such her work 
would receive more prestige. She 
did not, in any connection, produce 
her work in co-operation with a man.
These women were remarkable. We 
have not said that women have no 
brains, regardless of whether we be­
lieve it oi] not, and that side of the 
question has nothing to do with the 
Issue in hand..
From our side of the question, let 
us name two great masters of the 
English language. Shakespeare did 
his greatest work after he had fled to 
London to get away from his wife, 
who unquestionably must have 
cramped his style. She was a nuis­
ance. . Milton permitted his wife to 
copy off Ills manuscripts. Never did 
she furnish him any particular aid 
otherwise. But we stop here. Per­
haps there may have been some 
things done by a man and woman 
which were great, and In that case, 
the laugh would be on us. But we 
doubt it.
It is a peculiar characteristic of a 
man that he will like any girl who 
shows any signs of liking him, and 
if he is not too busy, and if he re­
ceives any encouragement, he will 
fall in love with her. We wonder if 
that is tlio case with the girls. •
Judging from the manner in which 
the girls will absently admit how 
many men are in love with thorn all 
tlio time, it does not, and yet we 
wonder., The ordinary person can be 
in love with one person at. a time, 
and yet, every girl, almost, in the
world, if pressed, will admit that 
there are at least three men in love 
with her. According to that, there 
should prove to be at least three 
times as many men in the world as 
there are women. But figures show 
that the numbers of each sex are 
about the same. Something wrong 
somewhere.
Of course it's silly, that's why it’s 
here.
if it were possible, on passing from 
this vale of strife and bootleggers, to 
be reincarnated again in whatever 
country, and whatever position I 
wished, I should choose to be a 
Chinaman of high birth. Think of 
the advantages of such a person.
He is born in a family which has 
race which is tempermentally mod­
erate, no hurry, no worry, no bustle, 
no bombastic bawlings about trifiies. 
He is educated in a manner calcu­
lated to enable him to enjoy life, not 
wrest a living from it. He Is brought 
up in an atmosphere of refinement, 
where , he learns what is good taste, 
and what is not.
He lias beautiful poetry to read, 
and beautiful things to see. If he 
cares to drink kaschia or whatever 
they drink in China, he canL always 
find interesting people to drink with, 
in his own circle of life.
If he wishes to discuss religion, or 
philosophy or ethics, he can discuss 
them with people educated like*" him­
self, who think before they speak, 
who do .not fear innovations, who do 
not become offensively personal 
when he disagrees with them, and 
who can forget the discussion after 
it is over.
If lie wishes to gamble, he can 
gamble with men who do not worry 
over their losses, or crow over their 
winnings. When he wishes to marry, 
he can be assured of a wife who will 
respect him, who is of his own class, 
who is, in short, educated in such a 
way as to be a suitable companion 
to him in his life-
His religion is one which suits his 
temperament; moderate, beautiful, 
intelligent; pagan though it may be.
In short, he is a fortunate person.
If a I-Iawaiin girl, dressed in smiles 
augmented with a little shredded 
wheat skirt, should suddenly appear 
before a company of Americans and 
do her little dance, wriggling in a 
way to put a boa constrictor to 
shame, she is classified as immoral, 
and tolerantly smiled upon.
If an American girl, clothed in 
shoes, stockings, dress, and hat ap­
pear at a function, and dance in such 
a manner as to expose the fact that 
her stockings are rolled, the same 
company of broad minded Americans 
will immediately classify her as im­
moral, and 3rell themselves blue in 
the face against the breaking down 
of morale of the younger genera­
tions.
Oh, yes, 'we Americans are a very 
broad-minded class of people.
PLUMBERS OFFER 
SCHOLARSHIP FUND
$1,000 to be Awarded For 
Course in Sanitary Equip­
ment at Carnegie
TO BE GIVEN YEARLY
Being broad-minded is largely a 
question of what Interest j'ou have 
In the things people are criticizing. 
And that’s that.
A scholarship fund of $1,000.00, to 
be awarded in the form of two scho­
larships in Sanitary Eqiupment, each 
I one for $500.00 per student a year 
for four years has been established 
I at the Carnegie Institute of Technol- 
j ogy by the National Association of 
I Master Plumbers, according to an an- 
I nouncement from John J. Vogelpolil, 
President of the Association.
The scholarship iund becomes ef­
fective for the college year of 1925- 
1926, and it is expected that the first 
appointments will be made during 
the coming summer. The scholar­
ships are to be awarded to sons of 
master plumbers under the direction 
of the Scholarship Committee com­
posed of Frank J. Fee, Chairman; 
John J. Vogelpohl, Samuel F. Wil­
son, Alfred C. Eynon, and James S. 
.Cassedy.
Candidates for the scholarships, 
says the announcement, must be of 
good character and graduates of 
high schools, and must be able to 
pass the college Entrance Board ex­
aminations in 'the subjects listed as 
required for admission to the College 
of Industries of . the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology. The scholarship 
holders will be registered in the 
course in Heating, Ventilating, and 
Sanitary Equipment.
"The fact that this course is given 
in no other college,” President Vogel- 
pohl’s announcement points out, 
‘‘should make our action the most 
important step taken by our organ­
ization since its inception and should 
merit the hearty co-operation of all 
our members.
"Of course, we expect to interest 
many young men aside from those 
who are assisted by the scholarship 
fund. The importance of having 
these courses for young men who 
want to go to college and at the same 
-time want to acquire a training in 
our business cannot be overesti­
mated. Another important consider­
ation is the fact that other colleges 
will institute similar courses, so that 
in a very short time there will be in 
this country many institutions of 
learning equipped to train our young 
men for our industry.”
The course in Sanitary Eqiupment 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is a four-year course leading to the 
Bachelor of Science degree and is 
given in the Department of Heating, 
Ventilating and «Sanitation of which 
Professor S’. E. Dibble, President of 
the American Society of Heating and 
Ventilating Engineers, is the head.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULT
at nBp Ä-II-p PnL
To The Editor Of The Tartan:
Wo road with indignation the col­
umn entitled "That's That” In the 
last Issuo of The. Tartan. Wo would 
like to inquire what basis of fact the 
writer of that article has for his 
statement, "Older people realize that 
a girl Isn’t: intondod for n pal.” Ho 
stal,os that a girl’s purppso in life 
Is to uplift a man when he is tired, 
and comfort him when he’s sick. 
Even granting that this Is the full 
purpose of womanhood, why, we ask, 
couldn't a pal do tills for a man?
Ho goes on to ask, "Was there ov­
er any really worth while thing ac­
complished by any man in co-opera­
tion with a woman?" Now we aslc 
you, dear writer, TOFFE there ever any 
really worth while thing accomplish­
ed by any man without the co-op'era- 
tlon of a woman? Certainly not! 
Even George Washington, at the very, 
height of his glory, was not too great 
a man to say, out of the gratitude of 
his heart, that all that he ever was, 
and all that he ever hoped to be, he 
owed to his mother.
To quote the author further, “A 
man can’t work in company with a 
girl he likes; either she has to be 
enough of a machine that she doesn’t 
bother him, or else she’s a nuisance.” 
So ho would classify us either as ma­
chines or nuisances. I wonder if he 
has ever heard of Joan of Arc, or of 
Mme. Curie, or of George Eliot? If 
so, I wonder whether he would clas­
sify them as nuisances, or as ma­
chines of a particularly high effic­
iency?
We can well imagine the darling 
of this writer’s heart. Brainless, in­
ane, foolishly diverting. Such an in­
dividual is not a real woman, and is 
therefore certainly not representa­
tive of women in general. If a man 
will tire of a pal, surely he will tire 
sooner of a plaything. According to 
this writer, a man wants a girl to 
amuse him, and yet he says she 
should uplift him. How, we ask, can 
a silly, flighty girl give any hope or 
comfort to a man in downcast mo­
ments? Wo suspect that the writer's 
experience (or rather his inexperi­
ence) does not qualify him to make 
this indictment of the modern girl.
Long live the pal, the good sport, 
say we! It is she who is able to 
make man real, vital, and noble. The 
plaything may satisfy a passing 
whim, just as a good joke may bring 
laughter the first time it is heard, 
but the influence of a real girl, the 
pal of a man, is comparable to the 
influence of his Bible. She puts a 
divine fire into his life—she is his 
inspiration as well as Ins helpmate. 
Again we sa3r, long live the pal!
Sincerely yours,
T. TWINS.
607 Y. M. C. A..
Erie, 5*a.,
• _ April 8, 1925.
Mr. G. L. Tilbrook,
Carnegie Tech,
Pitsburgh, Pa.
Dear Tilly: —
Please change my address to the 
above.
Boy, Oh. Boy! How I miss my 
Carnegie Tartans! I suppose 6 C.
W. is coming along in great style. 
Here’s hoping I strut about Ye 
Campus for it. Will appreciate it 
when my Tartans start drifting to­
wards me again.
Until we meet again,
HANK SIMPSON.
ELECTRICAL BANQUET 
DATE SET FOR MAY 21
The annual banquet of the Elec­
trical Engineering Department will 
be held Thursday, May 21. The price 
has been set at two dollars per per­
son, and the place, wliije not decid­
ed as yet, will be one of the hotels 
or large apartments in the city.
This event is the most important 
on the large program of activities 
carried out by the Electricals. Last
CONCERT OF ENSEMBLE 
CLASS TO BE APRIL 26
The Carnegie String Ensemble 
Class will hold its anual concert 
on Sunday, April 26, at 8:30 p. m. 
in the Arts Theater. The concert is 
free to the public.
Professor Karl A. Malcherek, who 
conducts the String Ensemble, has 
selected a very interesting and un­
usual program. It is as follows: 
Handel. Concerto grosso, No. 12
A tempo giusto—allegro.
Adagio.
Allegro.
Allegro.
Chausson. Concerto in D, Op. 21, 
for piano, violin and .string quar­
tet.
First movement. 
jSoloists—Nancy Fast, Marie Kleyle. 
Saint-Saëns Carnival of the 
Animals.
The Carnival of the Animals, com­
posed in 1886, was performed twice 
at private concerts, but was not pub­
lished until after the composer’s 
death in 1921. The first public per­
formance took place in Paris in 1922. 
It Is scored for two pianos, two -vio­
lins, violas, ’cellos, contra-basses, 
flute, clarinet, harmonica and xylo­
phone. The work imitates various 
animals. It is truly novel.;
The Carnegie String Ensemble 
Class -^consists of approximately 40 
string instruments. It. ranks among 
the largest string orchestras in the 
country.
C. E. McQuigg to Discuss 
Chromium Alloys Tonite
The second of a series of five public 
lectures on problems in chemical en­
gineering will be given tonight by C. 
E. McQuigg, metallurgical engineer of 
the. Union Carbide and Carbon Re­
search Laboratory, who will discuss 
“The Role of Chromium Alloys in 
Chemical Plant Apparatus.” The 
present series, scheduled during this 
month and in May, is the second an­
nual group of public discussions offer­
ed under the joint auspices of the As­
sociation of Chemical Equipment Man­
ufacturers and Carnegie Tech.
Chemical equipment as it will be 
regarded in these lectures, includes 
apparatus, machinery, and other de­
vices essential to operation in chem­
ical manufacturing. Although the lec­
tures are free and open to any one 
interested, special invitations liav^ 
been sent to the chemists located in 
the Pittsburgh district to attend.
The lecture tonight will be given at 
8:30 in Room 218, of the Schience 
Building. .
year it was held at the King Edward 
Apartments, the price being higher. 
This year at an attractive cost the 
affair promises to be one of the best 
on the social calendar.
J. S. Schukert is the chairman of 
the committee in charge of the ban­
quet, together with J. M. Kelley lie 
will devise the special features. Tick­
ets and publicity are entrusted to H. 
-E. Ashworth, while the entertain­
ment will be arranged by J. A. King- 
horn, H. F. Lenz, and F. A. Kolb. 
All Carnegie will be eligible to at­
tend.
She doesn’t smoke:, she doesn’t pet: 
She doesn’t drink: she doesn’t bet: 
At least she SAYS she hasn’t yet— 
But I learned about women from 
her-—California Tech.
AÄÄ
D-AID
THESCHENLEY
THEATER
AÄÄ
D-AID
THE
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GEN'L MGR.
CntSAUM IB-DSAU AtS N-St-DSAU
I). W. GRIFFITH’S 
Tremendous and Spectacular Romance
“Orphans of the Storm”
with ÄaÄÄaAt GWR SnpnIKU laDK 
IKBpDSAUM fpaSAU AtS DAIBpSAU
“Smouldering Fires”
with iABÄat- fp-S-paCKM ÄABpA ÄA 
iÄAtI-M CAÄCnÄC CElp-lnp
AÄÄ N--KAÄÄ N--K
4 The Royal Garden Orchestra |
| Clever Interpreters of Popular Music.% Complete ChGWge of irogrGm CoWRGy GWR IhursRGy ?
| Plenty of Parking Place at the Schenley
GloriaiSiwns
°f
C£.OTJ££S
HATS - HABERDASHERY
S HO ES
lŒÏÏf
At
Wm. Penn Hotel 
Tomorrow and 
Friday 
Jim Boyle, Rep.
Fifth Avenue at 46th St. 
NEW YORK.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
- I PLAID ATHLETICS
JUNIATA DEFEATED |* 
IN OPENING GAME *
Conrad Hurls Good Ball and 
Tartans Hammer Out 
8-6 Home Win
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
After losing three straight on a 
disastrous Southern tour, Carnegie 
Tech handed Juniata College a set 
back to the score of 8 to 6. Captain 
Paul Conrad was in rare form, and 
the chill breezes that blew across 
rthe Homewood baseball orchard did 
not cool the heat of victory that 
¦was in his arm that afternoon. Each 
team got nine safeties, but Carnegie 
bunched its hits in the seventh and 
eighth innings for a total of six 
iruns. Added to this were two runs 
made in the opening ¦ inning, which 
proved ample markers for the vic­
tory.
The weather (was cold and a sharp 
wind blew across the diamond, mak­
ing play difficult, this was evidenced 
-by the number of figures in the 
-error column of both teams. . Few 
a’uns were scored by Juniata on the 
Tartan's errors, but the scoring of 
the Plaid in the late innings was 
enhanced by the complete breakdown 
of Juniata’s defense.
Carnegie’s victory in their first 
Hiome contest showed-a smooth work­
ing and steady battery in Diffley 
and Conrad, a good inner works con 
-sisting of Wally Lynch, Yogt, Mc­
Clelland and . Maurer, and a fast out­
field composed of Christoff, Bastian 
and Bahr or Schriver. Obie New­
man entered the game in the sixth 
inning and his bat was a potent 
lorce in scoring. In two trips to 
the plate he hammered out two 
-doubles.
The individual honors of the day 
went to Weiner, Juniata’s scrappy 
third baseman, who gave a splendid 
exhibition of all around play. He 
iielded his position faultlessly, hav­
ing three assists and four put outs, 
besides having a perfect batting av­
erage with four hits out of four 
trips to the plate.
Mansberger, the opposing pitch­
er, twirled a clever game for the 
losers, but his support was ragged 
and this eventually caused his down­
fall.
The Skibo’s victory in ¦ the open­
ing home game had a stimulating ef­
fect on the interest in baseball on 
the campus and the team is assured 
*of good support from the student
body in the remainder of its games.
The next game scheduled is with 
Bethany College, to be played at
Buckhannon, W.' Va., this Saturday.
Carnegie Tech. R. H. P. A. E.
Christoff, If......... 2 1 1 0-0
Maurer, 1................................................ .1 1 10 0 2
Lynch 3_____•................. 1 2 2 3 0
Vogt, s............................... 0 1 3 3 2
Digley; c......................... 0 0 5 0 0
Bastian, m..................... 0 1 3 0 0
Bahr, r.............• *Y • • • 0 0 0 0 0
McClelland, 2......... 0 0 3 2 2
Newman, 2..................... 2 2 0 1 1
¦Conrad, p.............•.... 2 1 0 4 0
Totals ........................ 8 9 27 13 7
Juniata. R. H. P. A. E.
McClain, If...................... 0 0 1 0 0
West, 1............................ 0 0 12 1 4
Fisher, r......................... 0 0 0 0 0
R. Snyder, m................... 3 2 2 0 1
Weiner, 3................:___ 1 4 3 4 0
Waller, s........................ 1 1 0 2 1
Peixer, c.......................... 0 2 4 0 0
¦H. Snyder. 2...;........... 0 0 2 5 0
Mansberger, p............... 0> 0 0 3 0
Totals ........................6 9 24 15 6
Carnegie Tech...2 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 *—8
Juniata..................0 00 31 0 0 0 2—6
Two-base Hits—Peifer, Weiner 2,
Newman 2, Conrad, H. Snyder. Stolen 
bases—Fisher, Bastian, H. Snyder.
Double plays—R. Snyder and Weiner. 
Hit with pitched ball—By Mansber­
ger 2 (Christoff, Maurer.) Struck 
out—By Conrad 3 (Waller 2, West), 
by Mansberger 1 (Bastian.) Time of
game—2:00. Umpire—Dan Daugh­
erty.
O.p NIw 
OCklCHO TWopI
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
Is serving a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We Invite the students to 
meet their friends in the Rey- 
mer Store.
Tuesday, April 21. *
Baseball—Plebes vs. Schenley *> 
High, at Homewood Play- *> 
grounds. •>
Track — Plebes vs. Schenley v 
High at Carnegie Bowl. v
Saturday, April 25. v
• Baseball—Varsity vs. Bethany •>
at Bethany. *>
Plebes vs. Bellefonte Acad- *1* 
emy at Homewood. v
• Track—Plebes vs. Uniop High *>
at Carnegie Bowl. *
COMFORT PITCHES NO­
HIT GAME; PLEBES WIN
The Carnegie , Freshman, on their 
short trip to Shadyside Academy last 
Saturday morning, opened their sea­
son in top form winning the game 
H to 0, in errorless fashion, Com­
fort holding the opponents liitless.
Judd started the inning for the 
Freshmen, being walked to first, and 
after Johnson struck out, Cowan 
was walked putting Judd -on second. 
Cottle singled, scoring one run, and 
Hurd, the next man up, doubled, 
sending in another 'run. Two more 
outs finished' the inning, giving tile 
Freshmen a 2 to 0 lead.
The next two innings went- by, 
neither side scoring, but in the 
fourth the Freshmen again tallied 
two runs, leading at the end of the 
inning, 4 to 0.
Neither side scored in the fifth, 
but the Freshmen determined to 
make up for lost time apd tallied 
four runs in the sixth. Hurd doubled 
to start things going, and Bromley 
came oup next, getting a single. After 
one strike out, Goodlin -was walked, 
filling the bases. Comfort then 
slammed out a two-bagger, scoring 
two runs. Judd followed with an­
other, scoring two more runs for the 
Freshmen. Two outs by flys finished 
the inning.
The Freshmen again rallied in the 
final inning, scoring three more 
runs, finishing the game 11 to 0.
The score:
Carnegie! AB. R. H. P, A. E.
Judd, 3....................... 4 0 2 1 0 0
Johnson, rf............... 4 0 0 0 0 0
Cowan, cf................. 3 1 0 0 0 0
Cottle,’ ss................... 4 1 1 0 2 0
Hurd, 2....................... 4 2 1 2 5 0
Bromley, 1................ 4 2 2 7 0 0
Taylor, If................... 4 2 2 1 0 0
Goodlin, c.................. 4 2 2 10 0 0
Comfort, p............... 4 1 3 0 1 0
Totals ....................35 11 13 21 8 0
Shadyside. ~ABTlTlirTTXl:'.
'Clemson, If............... 3 0 0 2 1. 3
Baggs, ss................... 2 0 0 2 4 3
Kirk, 2..................... 3 0 0 3 3,1
Lang, c.........:......... 3 0 0 2 2 0
Kurtz, rf................... 21 Oft 2 0 1
Wheat, 1......................2 Oi 0 5 0 0
McCraw, cf............... 3 0 0 2 0 2
Cruitcliins c.............. 2 0 0 3 0 0
Evans, p..................... 0 0 0 0 1 0
Day, p........................ 2 0 0 0 1 0
Totals ...•..............22 0 0 21 11 10
j efI SfCWWIp Box :
The Chatterbox is an innovation in 
the Tartan columns, but one which it 
is hoped will be welcomed by the stu­
dents. Its chief purpose is to provide 
for the readers of the Tartan a col­
umn in which £hey may freely express 
their opinions on contemporary litera­
ture and drama.
Every day new books are being read 
and discussed by different groups of 
the student body; an author, possibly 
hitherto unknown to many people, is 
suddenly brought into the limelight of 
literary attention. The controversy 
over the merits of his work may wax 
hot, and many decisions, both for and 
against him, may be reached by the 
contestants. Very probably only a 
few persons will hear of that argu­
ment. The purpose of the Chatterbox 
is to bring to the notice of its read­
ers the view's on writing and writers 
expressed by the students.
Or, perhaps some one has discover­
ed an interesting, new publication. 
Little poetry magazines are constant­
ly springing up like mushrooms. It 
may be that from this multifarious 
group a student has selected one 
which he thinks possesses particular 
worth or interest. On the other hand,
A High Class Home
has available a suite of two 
large airy and beautifully fur­
nished rooms with private bath, 
suitable for one or two gentle­
men; also one large and beauti­
fully furnished front room with 
bath—situated near Roup and 
three street car lines. Address 
370 South Negley Avenue, Pitts­
burgh.
F.ffCrrIp & EvCHB
HCWB CHO RIH’B E.pHLBfLHgB
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa re East Liberty
INTER-MURAL WON 
BY DELTA UPSILON
Pi Kappa Alpha Places Sec­
ond; Also Wins Relay Cup; 
Delts Take Third
One of the most interesting inter­
fraternity track meets that the school 
has sponsored in recent years came 
to a close last Saturday noon. The 
Delta- Upsilon fraternity carried 
away top honors, with a total of 53
1-2 points, gaining three firsts, four 
seconds, and two thirds, throughout 
the entire list of events. Pi Kappa 
Alpha was second with 4G points, hav­
ing taken four firsts and three sec­
onds in addition to several smaller 
markers. The Pi Kapps also won the 
relay cup, having made better time 
than the Theta Xi team, which won 
the first of the two heats.
Delta Tau Delta came third with 
32, followed by McGill Hall which 
was sixth with 13, Phi Kappa seventh 
with 11, Theta Xi eighth with nine, 
Boss Hall was ninth with eight. 
Woodlawn Club and Scobell Hall 
were tied for tenth with six points 
apiece. Beta Theta Pi placed elev­
enth with four and a half.
The meet was very efficiently 
will discuss "constitution and Origin 
handled by the committee consisting 
of L. E. Jones, chairman; Iv. S. Lin- 
daiter, and Dave Garber, aided by as­
sistant track manager Henderson. 
The judges and timekeepers were as 
follows: Moses, Fink, Bucliema,
Shaffer, Dosey, Lawlor, Marks. .Es- 
querj-e, Prine. Patterson, Dyke, 
Griggs, Amans, and Kristoff. “Howdy” 
D.vkeman and Coach Halferty > acted 
as referees.
The Summary:
100 yard dasli—Won by Christoff; 
Wolfe, second; iSbriver. third; Fin- 
gle, fourth; Cayelli, fifth. Time, 10
2-5 sec.
220 yard dash—Won by Wolfe; 
Christoff, second; Kelly, third; Cay­
elli, fourth; iSeanian, fifth. Time, 24 
1-5 sec.
120 yard low hurdles—Won by 
Stultz; DeVries, second; Wolfe, 
third; Inteso, fourth; Hopper, fifth. 
Time, 14 2-5 sec.
120 high hurdles—Won by Stultz; 
DeVries and Perry tied for second; 
Simboli, third; Bookmeyer, fourth. 
Time, 17 2-5 sec.
Four laps — Won by Crawford; 
Hobe, second; Ewing, third; Spon- 
seller, fourth; Lusterberger, fifth. 
Time, 3:44.
One lap—Won by Rhodes; Dock- 
ard, second; Fingle, third; Flynn, 
fourth; Stultz, fifth. Time 43 1-5 
sec.
Two laps — Won by Crawford; 
Lockard, second; Bier, third; McKin­
ney, fourth; Fencil, fifth. Time, 1:38.
Eight laps—Won by Hobe; Ewing, 
second; Lustenberger, third; Kunlcel, 
fourth; Blelski, fifth. Time, 8:29.
Four lap relay—Won by Pi Kappa 
Alpha. ( Christoff. Munro, Schwab, 
Crawford): Delta Tau Delta, second 
(Biers, Sponseller, Fencil, Shriver): 
Delta Upsilon, third; Scobel Hall, 
fourth; Theta Xi, fifth. Time, 2:48. 
(Inter-fraternity four lap relay re­
cord).
High jump—Won by Luty; Good­
win, second; Hopper, third; Hood, 
James and Cutting tied for fourth. 
Height, 5 feet 7 inches.
Broad jump—Won by Sell; Mun- 
roe, second; Bohn, third; Kimball, 
fourth; Rhodes and Goodwin tied for 
fifth. Distance, 20 feet.
Discus—Won by Goodwin; Sebas­
tian, second; Wood, third; Warren, 
fourth; Mohrman,' fifth. Distance, 
108 feet 5 inches.
Pole vault—Won by Munroe; Good­
win, second; Lockard, S'tultz and 
Cutting tied for third. Height, 10 
feet 7 inches.
Javelin—Won by Mohrman; 'Shri­
ver. second; Lynch, third; Neff, 
fourth; McClelland, fifth. Distance, 
149 feet.
Shot put—Won by Nimick; Woods, 
second; Yoder, third; Nesbit, fourth; 
Sebastian, fifth. Distance, 38 feet 3 
1-2 inches.
he may consider his find of little value 
and’wish to express his adverse crit- 
icsm to his friends. It is such ex? 
pressions of opinion as these that the 
Chatterbox wishes to encourage.
Again, there may be a number of 
students who wish to know more 
about the method of procedure when 
an ambitious young writer is desirous 
of submitting his work to a publisher. 
There are a great many magazines 
published which contain very definite 
information concerning literary 
agents, the type of writing accepted 
by various publications, etc. If any 
student possesses knowledge of such 
magazines, the Chatterbox will be 
very glad to help him pass it on to his 
friends. In fact, there are so many 
interesting questions of a more or less 
literary nature to discuss that, it is 
almost impossible to enumerate them. 
The Chatterbox is not meant to be a 
presumptuous settlement of these 
questions, but an honest attempt to 
secure the views of Carnegie men and 
women. It is hoped that the students 
will support the effort by sending 
their judgments to the Chatterbox. 
Every contribution will be given a 
sincere and hearty welcome.
OH WfI NlCLO TnpIIH
J. F. CHRISTOFF
TARTAN HOME GAMES AT FORBES FIELD
Graduate Manager of Athletics "Buddy” Overend recently made arrange­
ments with the management of Forbes Field whereby the Tartans will have 
the use of Forbes Field for four of their live remaining home games. These 
games are as follows:
Friday, May S—Penn State, 3:30 P. M.
Friday, May 15—Bucknell, 10:30 A. M.
Thursday, May 21—Grove City, 4:30 P. M.
Saturday, May 23—Bethany, 2:30 P. M.
On the above dates the Pirates will be on the road, thus making the 
famous baseball field available for the Skibos. Admission to these games 
will be by tickets from the student books, faculty passes, and general sub­
scription books. For outsiders an admission of fifty cents will be charged. 
There will be no reserved seats.
Those in charge of Carnegie Tech athletics are to be congratulated upon 
securing the best playing field in Western Pennsylvania for these games. It 
is certain that a much better brand of ball will he dished up to the fans on 
this field than could be possible elsewhere in this vicinity, and at the same 
time the proximity of the field will enable Tartan followers to witness the 
games.*******
WHY NOT MORE TENNIS COURTS?
Those interested in tennis at Carnegie are aware that there is 
a shortage of playing courts on the campus. Either the varsity and 
Freshmen candidates are hampered because of this shortage, or the 
students themselves are. If there were twice the number of courts 
there now are, they could very well be utilized.
There has been some talk of laying out courts behind the girls’ 
dormitories on Woodlawn avenue. We hope that there will be more 
to this than talk, and that something concrete will be done imme­
diately.* f * * * * *
THE HALL OF FAME 
We nominate Newell C. Comfort, pitcher of the Tartan Plebes, 
for the hall of fame at Carnegie. On Saturday morning Comfort 
hurled a no-hit, no-run game against Shadyside Academy in the open­
ing game of the season for the Skibo yearlings. This is a notable 
achievement at any time, and especially so early in the season.
Comfort is an irregular Freshman In the Mining Engineering 
course In Science School, having entered last fall with advanced 
standing. He formerly attended Trinity College of Hartford, Conn., 
where he was the regular pitcher on the varsity nine. Comfort re­
sides in Detroit, and is a member of the Delta Psi fraternity. He 
should have a good season in baseball this spring.*******
INTER-COLLEGIATE SWEEPSTAKES 
Carnegie, Pitt and Wasli-Jeff have instituted the custom of inter-frater­
nity sweepstakes. During the past few years these races have becomo ex­
tremely popular among the students, and seem to attract more interest and 
attention eaclu year.
Why could it not be possible to arrange an inter-collegiate sweepstalcos? 
Fraternities from each school could enter cars, or an All-Fraternity team 
could be chosen from each school; the Freshmen could have a separate race, 
or other arrangements made. The Sclienloy Oval would bo a good place to 
hold such a meet.
The above are.just a few thoughts at random. Tt might ho productive 
of some good results if the Inter-Fraternity Council took up this matter at 
their next meeting and exchanged ideas on tlio subject.* * * * * . * *
Bert Munhall is doing a rushing business these days in tennis 
racquets. Bert has secured the selling rights on a popular make of 
racquets, and the students are taking advantage of the bargains 
offered by the genial trainer. Besides being a trainer, cook, philoso­
pher, Inventer and capitalist, Bert Is now a full-fledged salesman.
Call at the training quarters any time and let him prove It to you. *******
The Carnegie Bowl resembles a bee-lilve these days. At one end of tho 
field the spring gridders are working out, at tho other tlio hasoball team per­
forms, while the track candidates cavort around the clndor path. Wo hope 
the time will soon come when there will he plenty of room for all ol! tlio 
athletes to work out in comfort and safety.*******
The poor condition of the Homewood field was responsible for 
most of the errors made in the game against Juniata. But we won 
anyway, so that’s that.*******
The varsity nine defeated the Asymptotes Saturday aCtonfoou in tho 
Bowl, score 5-3. Tho latter team consisted of such stellar porformors as 
A1 Irwin, Frost, Duncan, Robertson, Daugliorty, Donohoo, Buchoma and Crum. 
Conrad and Bassett did. tho pitchin'g for them. Doc Marks umpired for a 
while, and was tho tenth man on the team for tho Asymptotes.
LARGE SQUAD REPORTS 
FOR SPRING FOOTBALL
It has long been said that in tlio 
Spiingtlmo young moil’s fancies 
lightly turn to thoughts of love. But 
there are somo men on tho campus 
that have time to do something else. 
Carnegie’s 1925 football squad lias 
completed their first woek of train­
ing. Spring training it might be, but 
to the writer it looked like the week 
before the first game.
Coach Waddell, assisted by “Doc” 
Marks* has been In charge of the 
squad. With the excetion of those 
men who v/ill graduate, and the mem­
bers of the baseball and track squads, 
practically every man from last 
year’s squad had reported. In addi­
tion to these, the men from last 
year’s freshman squad and many men 
who did not play Plebe football have 
reported to the coaches.
Most of the work done has been 
confined to the rudiments of the 
game; charging, blocking, and tack­
ling for the linemen; and punting, 
passing, running with the ball, etc., 
for the baclcfield men. This training 
gives the coaches an idea of material 
they will have to work with in the 
fall. The mistakes the men make 
are opinted out to them. By practic­
ing through the summer many of the 
men will remove these weaknesses-
The new material gets an idea of 
the. methods used by their new coach­
es, and everybody becomes better ac­
quainted. When training starts 
next fall the men will be able to 
start right into work and not lose 
any time learning how to do things 
the way Wally and Bob want them 
done.
The spirit shown by the men so 
far has been fine. Plenty of sore 
muscles were on deck, but the men 
know that it will only be for two 
weeks, so after every bump they 
come up smiling. It’s the same spirit 
that stopped a certain team five 
times within their own ten yard line 
last fall.
There is just one more week of 
spring training left. If there are any 
meii in school who think they have 
any football ability at all. they should 
come out and give tho coaches a 
chance to look them over. The ex­
ercises will do them good, and per­
chance they can help Carnegie.
INTERSHCOLASTICS AT 
SKIBO FIELD ON MAY 9
Plans are rapidly being completed 
to malce tho Ninth Annual Intorschol- 
astic Track and Flold Moot one of. 
tho notable athletic events ol! tho 
year, as far as Carnoglo Tech Is con­
cerned. Tho moot this year is to ho 
held on May i), and tho ovonts will 
take place on Skibo Field.
Early Indications point to a very 
high grade of competition. Most of 
the strong high school track teams 
in tlio vicinity of Pittsburgh are en­
tering, and many from Ohio, West 
Virginia, and central and eastern 
Pennsylvania have doclarod their In­
tention of sending representatives.
Harrisburg Tech, last year's win­
ner, is planning to make a strong bid 
for top honors again this year. Prac­
tically all of the high point scorers 
of last year will be back to contest 
Harrisburg’s claim for a new cup. In 
addition to the regular track and field 
events, there will be held a Cham­
pionship Relay Race. This will be 
run in three classes, the winner of 
each class receiving a trophy. The 
winner of the meet also receives a 
handsome silver loving-cup, and 
gold, silver and bronze medals are 
awarded to the individual winners in 
each event.
Manager E. C. Frazier and his as­
sistants, J. B. Whitman and Ev 
Plummer, are facing a period of In­
tensive work in preparation for the 
meet. It is planned to have the fra­
ternities co-operate ip entertaining 
the visiting high school athletes, 
many of whom will find it necessary 
to arrive in Pittsburgh the day be­
fore the meet. Students whose high 
schools do not take part in Carne­
gie Tech's annual meet can do the 
management a service by writing to 
their high schools concerning the 
meet.
The manager of the meet would 
also be pleased to add any schools 
to the mailing list which are not al­
ready included. Suggestions and in­
formation will he welcomed by Fraz­
ier and his assistants.
Prof: And now gentlemen we
get X equals zero.
Frosh: Gosh, all . that work for
nothing.—The Denver Clarion.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M. 
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Dear Editor: What is the origin
of the word "Date”?
"Date” is a Persian word meaning 
a cross between a prune and a nut. 
—The Wesleyan Pharos.
Don’t throw your mouth into high 
gear until you're Bure your brain is 
turning over.—California Tech.
Headline: Faculty Stops Petting.
Doubtless the students will follow 
their example.—California Tech.
jPLEBE TRACK SCHEDULE
IS BEST EVER ARRANGED
Tho freshman track schedule has 
recently been complotod by Man­
ager Dave Garber, and Is considered 
by Coach Hal forty to be the best 
that has ever been 'arranged for tho 
plebes. The first meet will be with 
Schenley High school In the Tartan 
LBowl this evening. The complete 
[schedule follows:
April 21—'Schenley I-IIgh, here. 
April 25—Union High, here.
May 2—Shadyside Academy, there. 
May 9—-Indiana Normal, there.
I May 12—Pitt. Fresh, here.
May 23 — Pitt Inter-scholastics,
1 Schenley Oval.
SLOAD REPORTS LACK OF * 
ASST. TENNIS MANAGERS *
The Varsity and Freshmen ?!* 
tennis squads have been report- »!? 
1 ing to Coach Fink for several * 
1 weeks. Tho number of players •!* 
1 has been quite satisfactory, but 
Varsity Manager Sload reports *1* 
1 a lack of Freshman aud Soplio- *1* 
1 more assistant managers. There v 
1 is a good opening here, and it is »1* 
1 urged that men wishing to be- 
' come assistant managers report *:• 
¦ to Manager Sload at once.
CONRAD ELECTED TO 
LEAD DIAMOND TEAM
Paul Iv. Conrad, a senior in Com­
mercial Engineering, was elected cap­
tain of the baseball team for the re­
mainder of tills season at a meeting 
held recently in charge of Student 
Manager Joynt and Coach Blytli. Tho 
election was practically unanimous.
"Connie” is well known to the stu­
dents at Carnegie, having made his 
letter in basketball last winter. 1-Ie 
was a center of no mean ability, and 
ranks equally high as a pitcher in 
baseball. He hails from Oil City, 
whero he played on the high school 
hasoball team of that place. On the 
eastern trip in baseball during the 
Easter vacation, Conrad hurled a 
masterful game against the powerful 
Georgetown outfit, and would have 
won but for some unfortunate breaks 
against him. Saturday ho took over 
the Juniata aggregation, one ¦which 
had previously held state College to 
a fourteen-inning tie.
Captain Conrad is a quiet, unas­
suming chap, well-liked by his mates. 
Ho is tall and rangy, and usos a 
froe, easy delivery in pitching. He 
is a member of the Delta Tau Dolta 
fraternity.
Athletic Council Passes 
Both Tennis Schedules
At a mooting of tho Atlilotlc Coun­
cil rocontly, tlio varsity and fresh­
man tonnis schedules woro approved. 
Both schodulos aro exceptionally at­
tractive, and give promiso of somo 
Interesting and exciting matches on 
tho Tartan courts this spring. Both 
studont manager, I-Ioffer Sload of thu 
varsity and Robort Young of tho 
Crosbies, aro to ho commended for 
tho attractive schodulos drawn up. 
They aro as follows:
Vnrsfty Tennis
May 1—W. and J., thoro.
May (t—Notre Damo, boro,
May 8—Ponn Stato, boro.
May .12—W. Va. Wosloyan, boro.
May 14—Rothnny, boro.
May 15—Pitt, boro.
May 1(1—Alumni, lioro.
May 10—Bucknoll, boro.
May 21.—Syracuso, thoro.
May 22—Union oollogo, Scbonoc- 
tady.
May 23—Now York University, 
thoro.
May 27—Pitt, thoro.
May 21)...W. and J., hero,
Plobe Tcnnln
May 1—Wllklnshurg High, boro.
May 2—Rayon High, Youngstown.
May 7—Crafton H. S., hero.
May fl—Wostmont H. S., Johns­
town, Pa,
May 13—Westmont H. S., lioro.
May 15—Pitt Froslimen, hero.
May 19—Willdnsburg High, Wll- 
klnsburg, Pa.
May 21 — Shadyside Academy 
(Pending), there.
May 29—Crafton High, Crafton, 
Pa.
PENN RELAY TEAM 
LEAVES THURSDAY
M. I. T. and Georgia Tech 
Will Compete Against 
Plaid For First Time
The first real lino on Caruegio’s 
track prospects for this year will bo 
gotten Saturday, when a group will 
journey down to Philadelphia for tho 
1925 Penn Relays. With the stiffest 
kind of opposition promised, any laur­
els that Plaid may garner will be 
doubly prized and a good showing 
there will meau a world of encour­
agement to the team as a whole.
Although the exact personnel of 
tho relay team has not been divulg­
ed, the men will probably be chosen 
from Dyke, Kelly, Seaman, Bier, Mc­
Kinney and Rhoades. Dyke is tho 
only one with previous experience at 
the relays, he having been a member 
of the-Carnegie team which won the 
technical schools championship last 
year. The Plaid will bo represented 
in spine of the other events as well, 
the leading aspirants at proseut be­
ing Bright in the two-milo, and Bolin 
in the hundred and broad jump.
As these latter events are to bo 
staged on Friday, arrangemonts have 
been made for Coach Halferty and 
Manager Scrimgeour to talco tho 
team doWn Thursday night, returning 
either Saturday night or Sunday. 
While in Philly, the Bartram Hotel 
„will be honored with tli6ir presence, 
and the local Carnegie clan will 
strive to provide amusement,
Guy Halferty has soon bis pro­
teges carry off first honors for two 
years In succession, but Is very du­
bious about this year. BosUlos their 
former oponents, tho rolay team will 
have to overcome the strong M. I. T. 
and Georgia Tech quartots, also on- 
torod In the Technology Group this 
year, and this with only ono votoran 
to rely upon. Spirit is not lacking, 
however, and the men have sot their 
hearts on winning. Tho wboleboart- 
od support of tho school goes with 
them.
Any “Tech" students who are not 
wearing somo pin or button, showing 
"Carnegie" symbol can got the miss­
ing artlole at Singer’s Store, 122 Fifth 
nvonue, Jenkins Arcado.
Ihe frGterWity of 
PusiWessl
Dogtn now to form tho nrmoiilatlonn 
mill huhltii Unit, will oorvo you whon you onlor tho huiilnoiiii world. A 
bank uommnt, luildo from tlio tan- 
rUiIo vuluo, ftirnlnhoii oxporlonco im*l uont.uolii which will oporato to 
your advimtaicu In livtor yonrrt.
Tho pontonul Intoront of Mellon of- flcoro In tho (Iminolal wolfnm of <li>l>oiiltorii In ono of Urn outlltiuid* 
lnt( charaoUirhitloii of tlio Iniitllu- 
tlon. Out oxporlonao anil limit-» 
noil« Judicmont aro at your itorvltio. 
Capital noil tiurpltm $12,000,000,00
LEARN TO DANCE
—at tho—
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbco Stroeto 
Boglnnora Monday and Friday 
overlings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday ovonlngs, Private lessons 
by appointment.
Tills Is a School—
Not a public dance ball.
Goodlow’s
GooO SloWfIB
There will be a showing of Goodlow’s Good Clothes 
at the Woodlawn. Pharmacy 
THURSDAY, APRIL 23
Stroll Over to the Woodlawn Pharmacy Thursday and See the New 
Spring Styles.
The Class Endowment
ci/lnd How It Can Be Done Through Life Insurance.T
HE JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY worked out this problem for the 1923 graduating elms of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Is ready to do It for others.
Many graduating classes, wishing to benefit their Alma Mnter hove turned to the insurance idea since it allows the participation of a large number of 
students.
This plan provides forrhe payment of a certain specified sum to the IJnlver* slty at the end of 20 or 25 yearn, the members of the graduating class paving a nominal sum each year to create an endowment. In case of the death of a graduate before the endowment matures hlo full 6hare Is paid Into the fund.
Every student Is given a chance to put his John Hancock on the dotted line and become « continuing contributor to the future welfare of hi# Alrnu Mater, It has been successfully carried through In a number of cuacs, urid It 
can bo done with your Institution.
The John Himcoclt oruanlvulnn will bniifod in tender any Bervlcn It i:an In college clauct and Individual!; alto to Interc»t atnbltloui colleue men in Ufa Inturancc work.
VOW. TNI'OKMATION ADDRIWti
OvcrSlxvjYtantn Tiutlnen. Noto I muring Over Tu/o Ullllon Dollart In Pollclet on 3,5 oo.aoo UvetYNDPR DLEX2TLH4 ¡IG7TL:r OoitoM, YTAFTHGustm

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1925
ALUMNI PAGE
Assumes Duties at 
McKeesport Schools
Miss Florence L. Lytle Made 
Supervisor of Sewing
Miss Florence L. Lytle of library, 
Pa., assumed her duties ub supervisor 
of sowing In the McKeesport Public 
Schools, aucceedlng Mr«. Lola Sellers- 
Steam s.
YDAA Lytle has had a wide expe­
rience In teaching since her grad­
uation from Margaret Morrison Col­
lege In 1915. She entered Curnegle 
In 1911 on a Houaehold Economies 
course from which she received a 
B S. degree In 1915. Later she took 
post graduate work at Pennsylvania 
State College and Columbia Univer­
sity. For six yearn ahe was super­
intendent or Domoatlc Science In tho 
MonoBBon schools and lately Iiub 
been supervising the teaching oil 
home economica In Ypsilantl, Mich.
Having had abundant experience 
in her line of work, MIbb Lytic goes 
to tho McKeesport schools well rec­
ommended.
REV. WHEELER-TO SPEAK HERE
(Continued From Pago Ono.)
tures by Dr. Wheeler at Carnegie 
Wednesday and Thursday nights.
Tho lecturers for the all-day confer­
ence will include members of tho staff 
of the Bureau of Mines, the faculty of 
the College of Engineering of Car­
negie Tech and Dr. Wheeler.
Tho program includes: Morning
program: Dr. C. It. Fettke, professor 
of Geology, who will discuss the 
Geology of Coal, and Dr. Joseph H. 
.lames, head of Department of Chemi­
cal Engineering, who will locate tho 
present status and possible future of 
by-product coking.
According to an announcement from 
A. C. Fieldncr, tho all day conference 
on Thursday is open to the public. 
Tho Thursday conference will not du­
plicate, but will supplement and offor 
opportunity for discussion of the sub­
jects presented by Dr. Wheeler in 
Wednesday night's lecture.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Craig Restaurant
Tho placo where all tho fellow« 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
LPNF SFeERY
Pure Foods
HOME MADE CANDY 
ICE CREAM
IVInkcs Autos Go 49 Milos 
On Gallon of Gasoline
An amazing new do- -vloo bau booii per­
fected by .! a men A.
May, of 7025 I mool ah 
33ldg., Sioux Falls, Ho.
'Dale., that cuts down 
#ns consumption, re­
moves all carbon, 
prevents spark plug 
trouble and overheat­
ing. Many cars havo iniulo ovor -til mlleu on it irnl- lon. i.nyonocun Imitali it In llvo minuto», Mr. Mny Wftnta n#a)itn ami In ollVrimr to nomi ono froo to ono nulo o\v"or in cucii locality. Writo him today1.
WESTERN SPECIALTY COMPANY
SLFN NEWT
NEW YORK CLAN
Hooray Kilties! The New York 
Clan turned out in force again to 
welcome the Kilties. We were Im­
mensely pleased with the broadcast­
ing from WEAF, New York and far­
ther, enjoyed the Immense concert 
and dance given at the Montclair 
High School that evening.
Those of the metropolitan district 
who made a long trip to get thpre 
wore very well rewarded for their ef­
forts. The Kilties were more enjoy 
able than over.
Their dance orchestra tinkled un­
til it'was early and did Itself proud.
New Yorkers hope that tho Kilties 
loft here as happy as we were to 
havo them.
CARNEGIE —- SEND US SOME 
MORE.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA CLAN
The Southern Carnegie Clan has 
heretofore been a non-money making 
organization, so that a benefit bridge 
party for tho Margaret Morrison 
Scholarship Fund was quite a depar­
ture from its past proceedings. It 
was given at the University Club on 
Wednesday evening, April 8, and the 
Biicceas of the undertakin—for it 
was a success both Bocially and oth­
erwise— is attributed to tho splendid 
work of all who attended, as well as 
many who were unable to come.
Special contributions either of 
prizes or money wore made by Mrs. 
(5. R. Brand in, Mr. Max Drebin, Mrs. 
Margaret D. Hazzard, Mr. .T. II. 
Knapp, Mrs. Hazel Thomas Rhodes. 
Miss Otillio Stocke, Mrs. Ida Richter 
Welfer, and Miss Mary Williams. It 
was through the kindness of Mr. C. 
M. Crawford that we were able to 
secure the rooms at the University 
Club for this occasion.
Tho GOlden Gate Clan was repre­
sented by its President, Mr. John 
Gearhart and Mrs. Edith Brush Gear­
hart, who carried back to San Fran­
cisco tho ladies' bridge prize as a 
momento.
The others who attended were Mr, 
and Mrs. Q. R- Brandin, Mr. Paul 
Bowman, Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Cllpson, 
Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Crawford. Mr. 
and Mrs. P. M. Crosby, Miss Faye El- 
foy, Mias Bessie Flnkelhor, Mr. Rob­
ert Flnkelhor, Mr. and Mrs. Hark- 
ness, Mr. and Mra. Tom Hazzard, Mr. 
and Mrs. 'Wolby Hudson, Mr, and 
Mrs. J. H. Knapp, Mr. and Mrs. 
Lloyd, Mr. and Mra. David Mason, 
Miss Dorothy, Ronlclc, Mr. and Mrs. 
F. W. Rhodes. Miss Margaret Walton, 
Dr. and Mrs. Welfer.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The member» of tho Philadelphia
Clan '\vero well pleased with their 
portion of tho Kiltie Mand’s extensive 
journey, although they thought the 
time was rather short.
After tho band had arrived about 
noon on Wednesday, they made 
their ilrat appearance -by parading 
down Market street tp the Rltz- 
Oarloton Hotel from whovo they 
took a nlght-iioolng tour and later re- 
tnrnod for luncheon.
Tho concert, which was given In 
the Now Century Drawing Hoorn, be­
gan at 8:30 and wan followed by a 
dance at 10:U0 to the tunes ol* the 
Kiltie Orchestra.
Tho Philadelphia Clan was so well 
pleased with the band tha*. nothin»’ 
short of a similar concert will satis­
fy them, next year.
Dmiles ^ bGEk Gt
AlumWi! fiWGl CGmpus Neek Sope
SCri.B WIIk eCgB............................$1.00 ICnf
Fl.rHL L.HnfIoH eLnkIWB................$2.00 ICnf
R.BLnCl SorIOy eLnkIWB (TypLCRoBq.I)
1BW Eloop eLnkIWB............................. $1.75ICnf
1BW ELvI RowB—ELpBW BClnoHy . . .. $1.75ICnf
RIrCLHOIp—ELpBW BClnoHy ..... $1.50ICnf
1BW ELvI RowB—TInoHO BClnoHy . .. $1.50ICnf
DoprLWopy RoorB (RIH op WorIH) ..50HLgfW
Important Notice!
No order will be valid or accepted unless
C. TIlf-COOpIBBIO, BWCriIO IHvIloiI LB IHnloBIO 
wLWf opOIp.
b. RCOI bIfopI RCy 11, 1925.
n. SfInkB CHO roHIy opOIpB CpI rCOI iCyCblI 
Wo G. L. eLlbpook, epICB.pIp.
Please Help the Committee by Ordering AT ONCE!
eELETSONE
| Herein the delinquet composer of 
this fitful column again assumes the 
| momentious responsibility of expre'ss- 
| ing his tempermental opinions on 
current topics of more or less inter­
est to its readers.
Lack of space can be given as the 
reason for its nonappearance in the 
last, few issues as the real reason 
will probably never be known.
Its sudden revival is probably due 
to the contraction of a serious - case 
of spring fever wherein lesse’r sub­
jects, such as Math, and Mechanics 
suffer slightly.
Only three weeks until Campus 
Week! The one big festive occa- 
j sion of the year. No wonder we 
I get spring fever. Who would’nt? 
Schenley calls to us while our 
thoughts drift back to the grand and 
glorious times of previous years, 
j The question in my mind isn’t 
“How many Alumni will come 
back,” hut “How many can stay 
away?"
Now that the final schedule is out 
and arrangements taking definite 
shape, it’s time for you “Ole Grad” 
to make out your schedule and get 
your reservations for all Campus 
Week Alumni Events.
Notice carefully the procedure for 
reservations so as to avoid delay and 
insure fulfilment of your order.
TO MAKE ROSTER 
OF EARLY GRADS
Roster and Club Room Assist 
Graduates in Meeting 
Old Classmates
ALL MUST WEAR COSTUMES | 
TO GET INTO MARDI GRAS
A decided change has been 'made 
this year in tho regulations concern­
ing the Mardl Gras. Everyone will 
be required to wear a costume and 
no tickets will be sold at the door.
During previous years, it lias been 
immaterial, to a great extent, wheth­
er costumes wore worn at tho Mardl 
Gras or not* 'Phis year, no one will 
be admitted without ono, and those 
coming otherwise will havo to spend 
tho evening elsewhere. Under these 
conditions tliore TOD0 be no uncer­
tainty about wearing a costume.
The decision that no tickets will be 
sold on the. night of I ho Mardl Gras 
was made with tho intention of keep­
ing out all those who' are not strictly 
Carnoglo alumni or studonts. The 
iiluninl will do well to pay attention 
to this and to order their Campus 
Week tags now. It will be nxtreme- 
ly nnfortunato If some of the old 
grads show tip on Friday night with­
out costumes, or without tickets, for 
If they do, they will not get Jn.
Those regulations may cause some 
slight Inconvenience, but they will 
help to make our Mardl Gras a bet­
tor and strictly Carnoglo affair.
SPECIAL SWIM HOURS 
SET FOR AI.UMNAE USE
CONNECTICUT CLAN
Tho Connecticut Clan aro bòldlng 
thotr noxl mooting; oil Monday ovo- 
nini;, April 117, at 0:30 o'clock. Tlio 
commlttcu In keeping rather qulot 
about tho plans for tho evening hut, 
woll—so inr we've nevor been disap­
pointed and It’s going to be good.
The place'; The Kingston Coffco 
Shop in tho HnrtCord-Connocticut 
Trust building at 0:30. and let’s liavo 
a big turnout ot Connecticut moni
SPECIAL TO CLANS
'J* J? Oakland Savings & |
Trust Co. I
? ?Member Federal Reaorvo y
*£ Syatem. »]?
Capital.......................»300,000.00 -j'
- - $300,000.00 2
- »5,000,000.01) X
$ SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES Ij!
| FOR RENT | (H,
Surplus.............
Deposite, Ovor •
To enable clans who wish to set 
in groups at the Campus Week play 
at 'Syria Mosquo, on Saturday even­
ing, the alumni office will accept or­
ders for reservation en masse if made 
early. Follow out instructions given 
in box concerning orders. This meth­
od had been decided on in answer to 
demands for blocks of seats for 
groups.
FOUR ARE CHOSEN
FOR COUNCIL HEAD
(Continued From Pago One.) 
squad, and having made a credit­
able showing this year.
Sometime during the week the 
Student Council will make a final 
choice from thoso four candidates.
Studo: HoW goes everything?
Boarding Houso Proprietor: into
hash, son, into tho hash.—Wis­
consin Octopus.
T8 Pittsburgh Firms
Are pepreseWteR
In the Exhibit of theCommerEiGl -WgiWeeriWg Sept.
fpaSAU -V-tatlM AipaÄ T4 
pnnC 118M DCa-tC- PBaÄSatl
Through tho kindness of tho Ad­
ministration. tho alumnae of Carne­
gie's (including Arts alumnae) may 
have the uso of tho pool during 
Tuesday or Thursday afternoons from 
«1:30 to G:00 p. m.
To keep the number within the 
specified limits, it is advisable to 
state that tho same girl may not 
come on both Tuesday and Thurs­
day. It may be possible to remove 
this restriction after we find what 
the response to this privilege is.
Each girl must bring her own 
swimming suit and cap. These ar­
ticles cannot be left at the gymnas­
ium as there is not sufficient locker 
accommodation for alumnae.
The only fee required is a five cent 
fee each time for the use of a towel- 
Now that we have been granted 
this privilege, it is hoped that the 
girls will take advantage of it.
Alumni Should Place 
Orders Immediately
Regulations Must be Observed 
to Receive Tickets
The attention of the alumni is 
called to the notice printed above re­
lating to the making of reservations 
at the Alumni office. 'Since the 
prices have boen definitely set, there 
is nothing to prevent orders from be­
ing sent in immediately; It is abso­
lutely essontial that these rules be 
observed if the orders are to be filled 
promptly. Again alumni co-operation 
is necessary.
Due to the enormous amount of 
work which will have to be taken 
care of, it will be necessary that a 
stamped, solf-addrossed onvelope be 
sent with oach order for tickets. If 
tills Is neglected, tho orders will not 
bo filled and trouble in obtaining the 
tlckots will result.
On May II, the Alumni office has 
to turn In all tickets for Campus 
Woolc events. Ordors, of course, will 
have to bo rocolvcd before then to 
bo filled, making II; extremely advis­
able to act as soon as possible. / Al­
though tho tickets are liot yet on 
sale, they will be mailed as soon as 
they are, and tho best seats for the 
play, to be held on Saturday night, 
will go first.
Chocks and money orders should 
be made payable to G. L. Tilbrook, 
treasurer.
ALUMNI BANQUET SPEAKER
ANNOUNCED IN NEXT ISSUE
The arrangements for the Alumni 
Luncheon are just about completed. 
The only important feature which re­
mains to be taken care of is the 
choice of the principal speaker.
The luncheon this year will be 
shorter than tliose of previous years. 
This should be a decided attraction, 
especially since it will enable the 
alumni to return to the campus at 
just about the time the Country Fair 
is at its height. The speeches will 
not be of a tiring nature as frequent­
ly happens, but will agree nicely with 
the “snappy” entertainment to be 
provided in making a decidedly plea­
sant program. Every effort is being 
made to insure that there will be no 
idle moments from 1:30, when the 
banquet begins until the very end.
So far the principal speaker has 
not been named, but replies are ex­
pected soon from several under con­
sideration which will enable his 
name as well as those of the other 
speakers to be published noxt week. 
As announced before, F. R. CogsAvell 
will be the toastmaster.
KILTIE BAND AND 0BIE 
ENTERTAIN AT PENN
ALUMNI LYRICS
L. D. Allshouse, Ex., ’24.
I’ve been marking off the days 
I must wait for Campus Week. 
Figuring on divers ways,
I can play the campus sheik.
Wish I were a real old-timer,
Class of nineteen nine or ten,— 
They’re reuning. Say, what’s finer 
Than to meet old pals from then?
Even tenners and elevens 
Will be . shaking hands again,
Sending “Skibos” to the' heavehs, 
Glad that they’re Carnegie men.
Cast your eyes on Tartan banners 
Cleaveut ’gainst an azure sky.
Sort of makes you shout hosanners, 
Laugh a bit and then ’most cry.
Old Carnegie, Alma Mater,
Sort of glad we’re part of you. 
Coming back each son and daughter, 
Our love for you to renew.
I’ve been counting off the days,
T must wait for Campus Week.
If it costs me forty pays
I’ll be there, so help me speak.
Chemical Grad Cashier 
At McKeesport Bank
Julius Gorzo, Honor Student, 
Here and at Columbia
SCHOOL WILL BE OPEN FRIDAY 
NIGHT FOR INSPECTION
VARSITY AND PLEBE BASE­
BALL SCHEDULE GIVEN OUT
A gril 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
May 
May 
May 
May 
May 
May 
May 
May
Varsity Schedule.
6—Georgetown, there.
7—St. John’s, there.
S—Navy, there.
15—Juniata, here.
18—Pending.
19—Bethany, there.
30—Juniata, there.
1—Bucknell, there.
2—Penn Stato, thOre.
8—Penn Stato, lifero.
9—Grove City, thoro. 
1.5- -Bueknell, here.
21- Grove City, hero. 
23— nethany. hero.
2(5 Honavonturo, bore.
Freshmen Schedule.
April .18 •• Slmdysldo Academy 
there.
April 21— Schenley High, here. 
April 25- -Bollòfoìito Academy, hero. 
April '29 Indiana Normal, here. 
May 9—Belle fonte Academy, there. 
May 10—Indiana Normal, here.
May IS-—Kiski, here.
May 19—Shadysido Academy, here.
LOST!
Thursday evening, April 16. 'at 
Morewood and Forbes street or on 
downtown street car. Black travel­
ing bag containing suit of kilts. If 
found please notify Dave Garber, band 
manager.
(Continued From Page One.) 
bition night by the Joseph Horne 
Company.
The mine, which has been a source 
of attraction to thousands of visitors 
each year, will again be open for in­
spection, with students at work dem- 
ontrating the uses of the various de­
vices and equipment in the labora­
tories and shops connected with the 
mine.
In addition, all of the scientific lab­
oratories in the Science Building and 
Machinery Hall, and the unique shops 
in the College of Industries will be 
open to visitors with students demon­
strating their work in each.
Women visitors, it is expected, will 
find much to iutei’est them in Mar­
garet Morrison which will feature 
gown exhibits by students of the De­
partment of Costume Economics; 
demonstrations of club activities by 
the Department of Social Wprk; ex­
hibits of microscopic work and a gen­
eral biology exhibit by the Depart­
ment of Science, and demonstration 
of table service and of a class in 
cookery by the Department of House­
hold Economics.
A one-act play, “Creatures of Im- 
pulso,” by W. S. Gilbert, will be pre­
sented at 7:30 and at 9 In tho Little 
theater by tho Department of Drama. 
At S and 8:30, the studonts,of tho De­
partment of Music, will presont. music 
recitals in tho theater. The College 
of Fine Arts will also contain numer­
ous exhibits of student work in art 
and architecture, and tho students 
will be found at their work in all of 
the studios.
The Gymnasium, with its separate 
facilities for men and women students 
and its large swimming pool, the new 
Carnegie Inn where the grill will, be 
operated until midnight for the bene­
fit of the visitors, and concerts by the 
kiltie Band at various periods in the 
men’s auditorium of the gymnasium 
are other features announced for the 
night.
It is emphasized the fact that no
The Downtown Business Men’s 
Post No. 231, American Legion, held 
a smoker and buffet supper in the 
Blue Room of the William Penn Ho­
tel on Friday evening, April 17. The 
Honorable J. Francis Burke was the 
principal speaker, and the entertain­
ment was furnished by the Carnegie 
Iviltie Band, the Kiltie Jazz Orches­
tra and a number of local soloists, 
including “Obie” Newman, last year’s 
football captain.
This smoker and entertainment 
was in connection with a member­
ship drive, and already a number of 
Carnegie graduates are enrolled in 
the Post;
W. J. Blackstock, I., ’16, is Post Ad­
jutant and cordially invites any ex- 
service men who are not members of 
another post to affiliate with the 
Downtown Business Men’s Post.
Mr. Julius Goryo, who received his 
B. S. degree in Chemical Engineering 
at Carnegie Tech in 1915, was sent 
to Columbia as an honor student 
where he graduated in 1918 with an 
additional degree in the same line of 
study, has recently accepted the posi­
tion of Cashier at the State Bank of 
McKeesport.
Mr. Goryo, while at Carnegie was 
elected to the Tau Beta Pi and at 
Columbia to the Sigma Xi for his 
high scholastic standing.' At present 
he is located at 413 Shaw avenue, 
McKeesport.
The Alumni Campus Week Com­
mit considers that they have done- 
very well in making the arrange­
ments for taking care of returning- 
grads during- Campus Week. The is­
sue of The Tartan of ’ April 28 will 
contain a roster of all those who* 
have been graduated in ’08, ’09. ’10, 
’11. Arrangements have been made- 
to house both men and women at 
the different dormitories, and a club 
room has been .set aside in the new 
gym for the use of the girls.
By means of this roster which will 
appear in The Tartan, the members 
of the early classes of Carnegie will 
be able to get in touch with their- 
classmates and determine wiiether or 
not they are coming to C. W. It is 
earnestly desired that this will be 
done and that plans will be made 
among the members of these classes 
to have a gloyious “Old Home-Week"' 
at their Alma Mater.
Foi‘ some reason or other. rit seems 
as though the impression has become 
extant among some of the alumni'.' 
that Campus Week is intended more 
for the students than for the alumni. 
This is a decidedly erroneous ,view, 
and is absolutely ungrounded. Every 
feature of the program tends toward 
making C. W. a reunion for Carnegie 
grads which will.be long remember­
ed by them and which will enable 
them to again come in touch with- 
school life.
Realizing the inconvenience, and' 
perhaps the expense caused by the 
necessity of putting up at a hotel- 
during Campus- Week, the committee 
has made arrangements with the dor­
mitories to enable alumni to stay 
there during the week.' Both men 
and women may take advantage of 
this, and for a pride of fifty cents 
per night, will be able to sleep right 
at the scene of the activities.
In a previous issue or The Tartan,, 
mention was made of having tables- 
reserved at the Inn and Commons for 
the different classes. These arrange­
ments are still in the making, and so- 
far the girls’ club room in the new 
gym has been set aside for the wo­
men alumnae. This will give the wo­
men a place which they may use at 
any time they desire during the 
whole week.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS TO
HOLD THEATER PARTY MAY 2
The annual theater party of the 
Carnegie Chemical Engineers will: 
be held Saturday, May 2, in the Lit­
tle Theater, College of Fine Arts. 
The play, to be presented at this 
time is “The Merry Wives of Wind­
sor.” Tickets may be obtained by 
sending a stamped, self-addressed en­
velope to Rudyard Porter, 210 Sem- 
ple street, Oakland Post Office, Pitts­
burgh, Pa. It will be advisable to 
send for tickets immediately, due to 
the limited number available: These 
tickets for reserved seats are good 
only until 8:15 p. m., at which time 
the doors are thrown open to the 
public.
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW
BOASTS GOOD CHORUS
will be present. Also, there will be 
only one performa'nee.
This means that those who want 
seats will have to get busy and get 
in their orders, or else be way up 
at the head of the line when the 
Campus ticket sale opens on May 
fifth, at 11:30 on the cut.
The sale itself will be a case of- 
first come first served, with no par­
tiality shown to any student or 
group. As soon as all the tickets 
are sold, the sale will close. As to 
whether or not standing room will 
be available, that matter is as yet 
not decided upon.
Don’t take a chance. There are 
only two thousand tickets available, 
so don’t put off buying yours until 
tho last moment.
Collegiately speaking, it isn’t the 
early bird that gets the tickets, it’s 
tho one who stays up all night.
tickets are required to attend the ex­
hibition, and that it is free and open 
to all who care to spend an unusually 
interesting evening.
THE WAY OF IT
A kiss, a sigh,
A sad good-bye,
My sweetheart’s gone. 
Another girl,
A merry whirl.
So life goes on.
—Kentucky Kei
FIFTEEN GIRLS
ELIGIBLE FOR
QUEEN OF C. W.
(Continued From Page One.)
lot form is accomplished, instantan­
eously. It is the plan of the com­
mittee to have • the Sixth Campus 
Week Queen, judged by every stu­
dent, so each person in the capacity of 
an individual judge, can vote. Person­
ality, beauty and interest in Carnegie 
are to be the guiding posts in the 
selection.
Primary number two is scheduled 
for Thursday a wreek. At this time 
thre'e will be chosen from the fifteen 
now eligible. With the race narrow­
ed down to a trey of beauties, the 
final choice will be made one week 
later. The question as to who will 
be qUeen will be answered.
Now that all the participants in 
the coronation are known plans are 
rapidly being made for the type of 
a festival’ that royal eyes alone have 
seen. Last year the queen was seat­
ed on a French throne in true Louis 
XVI style at the hour of six. This 
year after all have rejoiced and fro- 
liked at the Coronation DanCe from 
the beginning until the mystic hour 
of mid-night, the queen, amid the in­
spiring settings in the Sylvan thea­
ter, will receive the diadem of Car­
negie.
(Continued From Page One.) 
ing horn in which instrumentalists 
could he placed is under considera­
tion. In either case the music will 
be of similar quality at all points on 
the floor. The floor itself will be in 
excellent, condition for dancing, far 
different from last year.
The Coronation Dance, a' new fea­
ture on the Campus Week program 
will be the Royal Ball to preceed the 
crowning of the queen. It will have 
the same music and will be held of 
the same places as the Mardi Gras 
but will not be a costume affair.
TODAY’S APPLESAUCE
You must have the wrong person 
in mind, sir. I’m sure I didn’t cut 
that day; in fact, I remember enjoy­
ing your lecture very much.—Penn­
sylvanian.
first BWitGriGW ChurEh
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister 
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Service, 11:00 A.M. 
Young People’s Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
MARDI GRAS TO BE
HELD IN UNION, GYM
Compliments
of
Dkibo aWW
Wrigley’s increases tho 
flow of saliva and relieves 
that “stuffed” feeling. Clears 
the throat, steadies nerves 
and sweetens the breath. 
Cleans teeth too,
f5iCosts little-helps modi" M ?WRKlfifS
