i 7hi. Number ^ Carnecnc-Mellon University Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 1b213
ï,. •'v:n
* ‘"i
if ^ Vïtesiïfey^U il Lii "f , r o'.ct© riin vi^ j
Sft©amlnes Erntendes!
The mounds oT dirt in llic cut by Forbes 
Avenue and new ihc fraternities arc the 
result of work extending Ihc main campus 
slcamlmes to Morewoud Cardens nnd 
l-ratcrnity iquuit.
Dv the end of September, all fraternity 
builclims arc scheduled lo connect with the 
system. Morcwcod will join by the end of 
October. Flans also ni,, for the lines to 
link with Mudgc and Doherty Houses 
sometime after the summer of 1979.
The contr-mlor is scheduled to rellll 
the trcnchcs ?nd tcplace the concrete walk-
Dill Dillon. Director of Auxiliary Ser­
vices. stated that the half-million dollar 
proiccl will be the safest ¡tml most econo­
mical means providing heat lo the build­
ings north of Forbes. Rather than ins­
pecting and replacing the present boilers 
every 15 years, the new steam lines should 
last from 50 to 100 years, and should pay 
for themselves in 20 years. The decision to 
extend the lines was sparked by an cxplo-SKIBO Gets Money Machine
..... Mellon Sank will be-opening a rather
unusual branch- officc this month in Skibo.
Whal. makes the new facility unique .is 
its hours of operation (120 hours a week), 
its size (not much bigger than a bread box'), 
the . number of people on its staff (none), 
and tlicrnearcstpeoplc-staffed offlce(four 
city blocks).
If that sounds like a riddle, it isn’t; What 
Mellon has been able to do for the first 
- time in Pittsburgh is install what .bankers 
call' a "CBCT”, a Customer Bank' Sonnoa- 
locations Terminal, that when activated 
• by an encoded plastic card, will handle de­
posits, cash withdrawals, transfers between- 
accounts and balance inquiries;
The new installation, called the Mellon 
Banking. Center, will offer CMU students 
and faculty a number of time and-cast 
.saving advantages, according . lo Mellon 
'University Office Manager. Jay Schrader.
'Vfhe Center will save, its users time,"
; Schroeder said, “because by being in Skibo 
our customers won’t have to travel the four 
or five block distance lo our nearest 
branch lo cash checks or make deposits.
“And the price is right,” Schroeder con-'
: tinued. "There is no charge for using the 
facility, nor is there a charge for the plastic
ird -needed 
Cashing chocks at the CMU Cashier’s Office 
carries a fee of 20 cents per check.
In Mcllon’s casa, the plastic is either a 
Mellon Banking-Card or a Mellon Master 
Charge Card, both- of which .can be spe­
cially encoded with account numbers.
The Center itself is not unlike the
UKP4T3 TÔ “HE
«MS
sismi
MARIWM
Endtntfy. tom* pn-celtef« »tutfMN «nloy^'tfw Food Sanie» manu this wimw. Tlwy *mi 1« tha Imm te nprw tiwir «entinten. H Mwítyn «iU Mantify hanatf, Ita TARTAN b willing U» giva h* • fra* dínmr «dii* Wê Inwniew har lo find out v*kh «ntrHi «mi dith« «ha Hitad
siun Iasi year in Morewoud and some close 
calls in fraternities.
Dillon further explained that the More- 
wood boiler will have the capacity lo pro­
vide steam not only within its own system, 
but also lo the main campus when ihc new 
lines are conncctcd. The Morcwood boiler 
will continUie lo operate throughthe
bank's 24 hour banking machines located 
on the outside walls of some 20 Mellon 
offices in Western Pennsylvania. According 
to Schroeder, the Skibo installation is the 
first CBCT.opération to be established on- 
a college campus in Pennsylvania.
“To qualify for a Mellon BanklüçCard,”
SUPA Dean Revisits Rhoc
Construction pf the new Margaret 
Morrison Street Apartments is on schedule; 
with completion due by the summer of 
1979. To avoid any student vandalism, 
Dillon announced that the University will 
impose a S50 line on any student found on 
the const tuction site, and possible criminal
Bookstore
ResheSved
by Stuart Saidman
After you’ve seen the hole in the middle 
of the cut and the pile of bricks next to 
McGill, take a walk over to the CMU 
Bookstore and reccivc one ol the most 
pleasant ‘surprises in recent years on the 
CMU campus. Over the past three months a 
massive renovation of the bookstore, 
located in the basement of Baker Hall, has 
' taken place.
The new Bookstore image, consisting 
of bright, new lighting, orajige and green 
wall surfaces, and new bookshelves and 
display cases, was designed by George Piper 
of Store Operations Services (&O.S.) of 
Boston. This was their first project in 
Western Pennsylvania but S.O.S. is well 
known along the east coast foi then 
bookstore designs on many college cam»
The work done this summer 5s the com­
pletion of a rive year plan that bookstore 
manager Irene Daugerty began back in 
1973'. Ms. Daugherty began working for 
the Bookstore in 1964 as a book pur­
chaser and was promoted to maitUger in 
July, 1973. The following year she had the 
bookstore painted as the first step in im­
proving its image to tbe students. In 1975 
the CMU.Artslorc was created during the 
renovation of Skibo, allowing much ad­
ditional space for books. New arpeling 
was also installed at the time.'In 1976 the
esia
United States foreign policy in Rhodesia 
is “fundamentally wrong,” according to 
Otto A. Davis, dean of the School of Urban 
and Public Affairs at CMU.
- Davis, who has just returned from a 
three-week stay in Rhodesia, feels that the 
U.S. Government has good intentions, but 
the policy, of trying to arrange, another 
conference between the various political 
factions in Rhodesia is detrimental to 
achieving peacc in that country. .
‘The . negotiated settlement that has 
already been reached in Rhodesia is based 
on the principle of otic inan/one vote,"- 
Davis says, ‘That's a basic tenet of western 
democracy, and one that this .country
ought to stand behind. Calling for another 
conference ai this time.in tantamount to 
disivowing our awn principles."
Davis believes that holding another 
conference can only favor the two leftist 
groups, headed by Joshua Nkomo and 
Robert Mugabe,, at the expense of the 
other political factions' who- have, already 
agreed . to - the negotiated settlement, 
“Bishop Muzorcws,- Reverend Sitliple 
and Chief Chirau. the leaders of the three 
major internal political groups in Rhodesia, 
already support the • one. man/one vot 
concopt, and question what more there \ - 
to--; achieve' with another conference,', 
states Davis. . •
He feels the leftist groups are using the 
American suggestion of another conference 
as a way of getting cut of participating in 
the current settlement. They arc hoping 
that a new conference will result in some, 
guarantees that they will be included in the 
new government despite the outcome of 
the elections which are scheduled >/> be 
held before the end of the year.
. “For the United States to support such 
a situation runs counter to our belief that 
people should have-the. right to choose 
their, own leaders through free elections,” 
Davis asserted.
Davis notes that this situation.is ciajUri- ' 
buting to low morale within the country.
“A lot of people in Rhodesia feltlhat 
the internal: settlement would be recog- 
niwd by the outside world, and this has 
not been the'eas.-Thcy are disillusioncd 
because they thought that one man/one 
vote was an. -important principle: for 
.western democracies,” comments Davis.
He adds that the insistence on another 
conference is increasing the likclihood of a 
full-scale civil war.
“Any delay allows the Marxist factions 
to receive weapons from the Soviet Union,” 
Davis says. “And by not standing strongly 
.behind the principle of free.elections, the 
United States Is actually encouraging these

---------------------------------------------------

The Moments.of
'•*> f>-\ ¿ti y-% e~§$ i ¡cbils nans iwLi
The innocent freshman, which we all once were or now 
are, is a beautiful spirit that lives with adventure and dies 
with experience. While it lives, it inhabits student bodies 
(no pun) delivered to campus worm with parental love that 
quickly turns cold from required walks on unchartered ice. 
It's a mix of all the uncertainties of childhood and the real­
ities of a future that remains Ignored on an unsure horizon.
There is nothing like being a freshman and the spirit of 
innocence must be appreciated while it lasts. The moments 
of new friendships; a new way of learning; a new way of re- 
fating to peers, where there's no school bus to take you 
home at nlght-these are the basics of innocence. The special 
interactions of Freshman Weekend; the discovery of work- 
load potential; the first taste of food service hamburgers, 
dorm life, frat parlies, and Friday night movies; these are 
the ingredients of forever-after nostalgia.
Freshmen, enjoy your innocence. You can play with it, 
abuse it. attack it, or try to understand it. But don't worry 
about it. It is yours only for the moment and by next year 
it will belong to someone else. And as upperclassman will 
us'iure you, without realizing it, you will be someone elsemmm>W*V»W«V.Va ï,ï,.•,ï,ï,'ïvï
The TARTAN is always getting mail from people who 
don't know we're a student newspaper. Letters addressed to 
the TARTAN City-desk and to the TARTAN Washington 
Bureau-chief were both In this summer's mall. .The two let- 
ters, like dozens of others, contained press releases that 
were completely useless to CMU readers, and we filed them 
in a crowded TARTAN editoriai-city-bureau trashcan.
We received urgent releases from the Department of* 
Health, Education and Welfare three times a week, but if 
you skim today's paper you won't see a quote from any of 
them. There was nothing of Interest to anyone at CMU. 
But we 're constantly on the lookout for gems in junk mall, 
so we plowed through it all.
Sorting through the summer's mail was truly a journey 
through wasted postage. Of course, 9096 of the material 
was dated already. Shows and lectures that took place in 
June and July are just memories to the press secretaries who 
ordered us to give their subject matter an “immediate 
release." An urgent telegram from a local radio station invi­
ting TARTAN staff members to an important press lunch­
eon sat unopened for a month.
We received a Russian textbook in the mail and we have 
no idea what It's about or why it was sent to us because no 
one on the staff reads Russian. A letter in English, from a 
college In China, asked us to send a copy of the TARTAN 
to them.
We also were sent twelve different press releases from Pa. 
House Speaker Leroy irvis. We’d never gotten them before, 
and we guessed that the TARTAN was recently placed on 
his mailing list. It could be that he's running for re-election.
Undoubtedly, the oddest piece of.summer mail was from 
Manila in the Philippines, ft dealt with a "new” young 
political party, which In all probability, is now defunct. 
The reason we can make the assumption that the group no 
longer exists is because the release was sent on June 29th.
June 29, 1972-whlch was over six yean ago.
If the postal'workers decide to strike, the TARTAN 
staffers who sort through the dally mail will have to get 
their kicks elsewhere; probably by scrutinizing the Items of 
interest In the campus mail.
While the letters were piling up in the empty TARTAN 
office, hope all of you had a pleasant, worthwhile summer. 
Welcome back, and good tuck in the year ahead.
TARIAN
IV Editor: V.fl.V. Ramanan Mmiflar: Timothy Wfvk 
srsKy TARTAN. Tha £dit< 
¿^Pennsylvania' 1S213. 6c 2) 570-2111.L RIGHTS RESERVE!)

---------------------------------------------------

Food Stamps Restricted
September 5,1978—TARTAW—pajjs 3
What did you do this summer?
mi, them wsra ovw 120 "Froo Bcaehcj" in tho U.S., alt eatorinjj to nudsi. smi-nudcs. and tho leery'eyott. This iugot-wor snapshot was ttkon ot Bloch's Deceh in San Dtaga, Colifornb. TARTAN loemrtd that the v!dw from ihs clhnr sit/» of the ropo ii ovon mora cnticiny. ror C students with the liras to boie-All, tlio closDit nudlsl eotcny Is VUhlto Thorn Lodgn in Rochattor,
The idea oi coliege students being dib­
ble for food stamps never did sit quiis right 
in some circlcs and over the years eligibility 
requirements Iiavc slowly lightened. Now
Postering Confined
Dean Swank issued a bulletin to v\H 
¿indent Organizations regarding a new 
regulation appearing in the Student Hand­
book for 1978-79:
“The attachment of posters and hand­
bills to surfaces other than campus 
bulletin boards is prohibited. The pe­
nalty for placement of such posters or 
handbills is the cost of removal of 
posters and a fine of S25.00 if ihe total 
number of posters requiring removal is 
under 5. Tlie fine is SI 00.00 if the total 
number is more than 5.”
There are bulletin boards in strategic lo- 
is in all campus buildings. Dean 
Swank asked that postering be confined to 
those locations.
student access to food stamps will be fur­
ther restricted by a proposed new set of 
U.S. Department of Agriculture- rules.
Students over 18 receiving food stamps 
must register for at least 20 hours pij week 
of employment, under the new roles. 
!-\nd d'.irinj.any school'break ofmorc ihsn 
30 days tltcy must register for full-time 
work.
A second provision of the new rules 
makes students ineligible if they are 
claimcd or could properly be claimed as 
dependents by a taxpayer in a household 
that is not itself elegible for food stumps. 
This provision will allow food stamp of­
ficials lo delve more deeply into a'student 
applicant’s overall - financial situation be­
fore determining eligibility.
Scholarships will be counted as income 
to tlie extent they provide for living 
expenses; tuition und Tees arc exempt, 
but payments for books aren’t since they
Greeks Make National News
Bash Tonight
This Fall’s Watermellon Bash is tonight 
on the Fraternity Quad. Enlertainmcnt will 
be provided by Hausen from 8 till mid­
night. This event is open to the entire cani-
Thc location was chosen by the Activ­
ities Fair Committee Chairman, who sug­
gests that 'any freshman who gels the 
definite feeling lhat rush has begun
pus community, but Student Senate, which Bash, lo inform the Student Senate.’
A national sorority and a fraternity, 
both with chapters at CMU, were in the 
national spotlight this summer.
Allegedly pulling the teeth from a stu­
dents pet cat has cost the University of 
California-Bcrkelcy Pi Kappa Alpha Fra­
ternity a $25 small-claims judgement. 
The student, a non-member boarder in the 
frat house, claims his cot’s (wo front 
teeth were pulled by members who told 
him they needed the teeth for a ritual. 
Fraternity officers denied the charge and 
say they will appeal.
“VANITIES,” the popular play de- 
piciing ihc ordeal» of three college women,-
What’s new with
incurred the ire of many women of the 
Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority by using the 
name of that organization freely in Ihe 
play. But contrary to one rumor, the 
Kappas arc not suing the playwright. 
‘‘We probably would stop it If we could,” 
says the Kappa national executive secre­
tary, "but litigation would bring just 
that much more publicity.” She says there 
is nothing objectionable about the play, 
just the “idea that they used our name on 
the stage.” She says chapters have been 
asked not to cooperate when local stage 
troupes 2sk lo use Kappa Kappa Gamma 
embUm* and clothing as props.
MORE-PIZZA
| Pizza S. Hoagies by the inch 
| More wood Dining Room¦ii!Sun. thru Thurs. 9 PM to Midnite

---------------------------------------------------

5, 1978
FCC Ruling 
Stalls New 
Antenna
witcr, i7h cmu's'
Applications Low, Students High
at CMU, Uiis year's
t CMU than was t
from 1436 iit 1977 1026 in 1978; mge of applicutns, 85% and 84% rcspec-
in IIS.SS from 607 to 390. in AMS from lively. 8-1% of those who applied to CIT
236 lo 216. in C|I 1'rom 1350 lo 1167; v,crc accepted, as were W/o of those who
in MIS from 7C7 to 490. Elliot lias "no applied to AMS. i-Kiot feels these statistics
idea why this Happened. Usi year applic- would notably make CMU * “very sclcc-
stle- CMU’s low tuition rule
More Money .. .
We’ll oncotic the e
ity will bc pJ in llic lobby in S
which should make the Center convenient flu,. Mellon Bank representatives will be on
fur cveiyone," Sdiroecler asserted. |ianti to show students, faculty and staff
Scheduled I» he in complété operation how the machine operates, to answer
by inid-Scplcniher. llic Mellon Ranking questions and to open new accounts.
of York, for I
i case where the The i
new drugs by o
magnetic field. It was designed and built by 
Drs. Josef Dndok, professor of chemical 
insiiumentation, and Aksel Bothner-by, 
university professor of chemistry, both at 
MIS, and by Intermagnctics General.
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
3K3I8© 40.&
The University Oratory 
of
The Holy Spirit Parish
THE ROMM CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY PARISH of the Diocese of Pittsburgh was created •
196? to meet the special needs and aspirations of a seeking and learning community. Th. 
worship, study» prayer, and a wide program of other activities, The University Oratory seeks 
to serve the students, faculty^ and staff of Camegie-Mellon University. This is your Parish and represents your effort zo build a Christian Community ?!f
Mass Schedule For the Fall Semester:
7;00 P.M. SAHJPDAY ANTICIPATED FOj'JC MASS.......Hunt Library Multipurpose Room (Enter Frew St.).10:00 A.M. SUNDAY MORNING FOLK MASS. .........   .Hunt Library Multipurpose Room (Enter Frew St.)
12;00 Noon SOLEMN SUNDAY LITURGY...............'Heinz Memorial Chapel
12;30 Noontime WEEKDAY MASS (Monday - Friday)..CMU’s Chapel (Skibo 39)
¿MO UNDERGRADUATES AND FRESHMEN; OR JO_IN_US FOR............
Come to the Oratory foT a Celebration of Mass Charismatic Prayer Groupr Mondays 0:15 P.M.- Oratory
followed by Buffet Supper. If you are searching for Genesis II - Coming Sept.26 at 8:00 P.M.
a better understand^ of the Catholic faith within Graduate Students - Wednesdays at 8:00 P.M.
a warm and friendly atmosphere, then join us each CMU Course: The Holocaust. Wednesdays 7-9:00 P.M.
Thursday night tor Mass or para-liturgy (prayer or Folk i
Bible study).
THE ORATORY: 4040 BIGELOW 1

---------------------------------------------------

Saptsmber 5,1978-TARTAl\l-pss3 5
öorsus Kem>
This year Cnnlecn Inc. will maintain 
aid operate vending rachitics on campus. 
Cuntccu placed tlic best offer among ten 
national companies who competed for the 
campus market. Tlic companies had to 
meet requirements made by the Univer­
sity as to the location of machines in “low- 
traffic ‘ areas, the stock of national brand 
name products and health foods in ma­
chines, and llic use of canned soda instead 
of cups. Canteen is required to install new 
or fully reconditioned machines through­
out campus.
Food Servicc will supply sandwichcs in 
vending machines. There is also a chancc to 
have breakfast foods in machines in the 
morning, and different meals, such os 
crcpes.
Rooms in Boss, McC-ili. and Scobcll 
Halls have been upgraded with texturcd 
ceilings and • walls. The remodeling of 
Morcwood’s first floor is almost completed 
with a few lights and doors needed to 
fisush. Doherty ¡lo'JSi is getting iii.*>v win­
dows which have reduccd energy consump­
tion in Welch jnd Henderson by twenty 
percent. Doitner Hall has new mail boxes 
on trie first floor which will be watched by 
*! residence life desk operation.
The University, has moved away from 
replacing concrete and towards patching. 
Wilh the past year’s severe winter, it has 
become. more economical to patch cracks 
ralher than replacing whole sections of 
walkways, which crack in one year any-
The City of Pittsburgh has installed 
sodium vapor lights along Margaret Morri­
son Street, and will eventually put them on 
Tech Street, at no cost to the University.
Bookstore Renovated
bookstore received a new cntranceway and 
sign in anticipation of tlic air conditioning 
installed Iasi summer. With ihis summer’s 
work, the live year plan is now complete 
and the bookstore has been upgraded from 
a dark basement into a modern retail facil­
ity.
According to Bill Dillon, the director of 
Auxiliary Services, the renovations are 
costing approximately S50.000. The source 
of funds for the project is the Capital 
Reserve Budget of the Bookslore.
“J? will be difficult to know where the 
dissatisfactions will be until vyc'vc had an 
opportunity to work on the plan.” Ms. 
Daugherly told the TARTANi Some stu­
dents arc already confused by the new lay­
out in the bookstore. “It's actually more 
confusing than it was," Mike Tarr said. But 
that was not the typical reaction. More 
typical was BUI Darley’s remarks. Darley, 
a third year physics student who just 
completed a year olT said, *Tm impressed, 
I really like it." Whether the new layout 
in the bookstore will make the beginning
f the siany bet
yet to he seen. According to Daugherty the 
Bookstore has put on ten extra personnel 
to help them gel through the first week of 
school and there will be four cash registers 
in operation. As usual, checks are lo be 
validated upon entering the Bookstore, 
Daugherty informed the TARTAN lhat 
almost all of the books ordered for couiscs 
this fall have arrived. If a text book is not 
in there is notice on (he shelf informing 
the students when the problem will bc. 
alleviated. If the Bookslore runs out of a
book or a professor lias noi submitted ,m 
order yet, it could take from five to ten 
working days for the bookstore to receive 
the book.
The bookstore will be having extended 
hours during the first week of school, 
starting yesterday. Until this Thursday it 
will be open daily from 8:00 AM till 
B:00 PM. On Friday the Bookstore hours 
will be 8:00 AM till 5:00 PM, and on Sat­
urday from 9:00 AM till 1:00.
¡RIP THEM OFFS
2)57
THE RIPOFF BOOK
66 Super Discount Coupons
McDONALD'S 
GEORGE AIKEN’S 
UNCLE CHARLIE'S 
WENDY’S 
HEADS TOGETHER
BURGER KING 
SUBWAY 
WOODEN KEG 
SWEET WILLIAM’S 
FLO'S
PLUS MANY, MANY MORE PLACESSave up to *200°° Only «jw
Get yours now at the 
Bookstore and Entropy 
Sponsored by Lambda Sigma
Greot Moments 
in the hîstoryof hoir'
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Ags plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re­
pair job. Ha calls the substance 
hair.
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
. and guys..
Coloring Pcrmanci
$25
MEUTevecnmons.PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Pgh„Pa. 1S2I3 
<587-3500

---------------------------------------------------

pr.52 5—TART.I5.1973
Kiger Takes Over Hunt Botanical Directorship

---------------------------------------------------

As a part of its- tradition to bring the CMU 
reader the important events of the week,. FOLIO 
has chosen the cooridinator of the Activities Fair 
Mr. Elliot Ohlberg, the administrtor behind the. 
highlight of the first week, of school. The Fair, 
''.although oriented .toward freshman and other 
new students, exposes the entire student body to. 
numerous extra-cun'cu/ar activities. Months of in­
tensive planning and leg work have gone into 
making this year's Fair the best one ever, sure to. 
set an impossibly high standard of excellence for 
years to follow. Mr. Ohlberg is responsible for 
severs! innovations in the Fair, certainly the most 
>yfwidely discussed one being the change in status of 
* the Fair from being, a voluntary to a madatory 
event. Last year at the urging of the Student 
Senate, the Board of Trustees in their April meet­
ing voted 35 to 1 to require the attendence of all 
incoming CMU students at the Activities Fair. In 
addition, each new student must join at least 
three campus organizations from a long list of.
I A recognized activities. In this interview, Mr.
\ * Ohlberg clarifies the purpose of the Fair end pro- 
' ‘ vides us with interesting insights into a man bent 
on punctuality and perfection.
FOLIO: Why has the Fair been made mandatory 
this year? -
Ohlberg: Well, for several years now the fact that 
extra curricular activities were not mandatory 
v contradicted the -position of the- University.
1^ • This was so in two. ways. First, we want to 
produce professionals here at CMU, recreation- 
ally as well as academicly. Second, these active 
ities play ah essential role in the development 
of the well-rounded student.
FOLIO: What's involved in this change? How is
it going to help students? .......
p Ohlberg: There are several benifits: personalide- 
velopment, service to campus and community, 
etc., etc. And there are certainly penalties if 
a student does- hot take .advantage of :the 
benifits.
FOLIO: Like?
Ohlberg: Oh, anything from disciplinary action to 
not being allowed to graduate. Certainly it
' TARTAN FOUO
• SEPTEMBER S. 1978 / VOLUME 3, ISSUE 1: THE FAIR
EDlTOn K. A ; YAKSlCHART DIRECTOR USA AMOWlTZCONTRIBUTING ARTIST JON REDDEUL
sounds tough, but we're easy- going. There is 
within the program a Self Defined. Club Op­
tion. If there aren't three clubs which a student 
wants to join, he cain design his own club and 
get credit for it We have a student whose Self 
Defined Club deals with mercenary fighting in 
which there is a heavy involvement in the Kar­
ate Club, the Hockey Club,, and the Student
. Government
FOLIO: . And this is called the Self Defined Club 
Option?
Ohlberg: Yes. But. realizethat.moststudehts
don't get involved with it because of the 
-quality of the extra-curricular program at 
CMU. We stand up to any Ivy League school.
FOLIO: Isn't there going to be an added cost to 
the program? This sounds like a pretty expen- 
sivechànœ.
Ohlbérjj: Money? .What's money if you don't
spend it? But to answer your question, there is 
no extra cost Besides, I don't think we could 
.get the money if there wasany.added expense.
FOLIO: Interesting. "
Ohlberg: But that's because the money is needed 
. v . for a lot of different things. Although students' 
are on important thing to spend money on.
FOLIO: Getting back to students. Letussup*
. pose, for example, that. I was a student and 
not interested in joining clubs. Couldn't I just 
just sign up and not participate? :
Ohlberg: A .funny story comes to m|nd. Andrew 
Carnegie was in Scotland buying a castle when • 
he was called on by the president of wKat was . 
then Carnegie Institute of Technology, CIT. 
The president's name was Hammerschlag and 
he had'traveled all the way from Pittsburgh to 
Scotland to call on Carnegie and ask the same 
question you asked me. . Carnegie listened to 
the question and didn't move. He had been 
looking out of a window; and just continued to 
stare. Then he turned slowly , to Hammer­
schlag. - Carnegie's thin white hair blew gently 
in The breeze from the window.. Then he
smiled, and in a very fatherly manner put his 
arm around Hammerschlag and together they . 
walked toward the large, stone fireplace ¡that 
.dominated the east walj of the room. Cam- 
. egie's voice was soft as He spoke, and Hammer­
schlag sensed an historical importance about 
what was to be: whispered to him by thislgiant 
of industry.. Slowly and carefully, Carnegie 
said, "The man who .doesn't play ball, leaves 
his umbrella at home." ’
FOLIO: I don't think I understand! '
Ohlberg: Well, you sea, .Carnegie, was very old 
and... ; J • •
FOLIO: You mean... j
Ohlberg: I think it was; Preside^ Doherty who 
said . it. "Remember that it is not the heart 
alone, that ¡6 crver worked-and drtes up as a man 
approaches Death's sapping'grasp." ' '
FOLIO: So then from what you tell me, this Uni­
versity has had mandatory involvement in clubs
- and...-. ; I
Ohlberg: That's right, Carnegie was a faifly fimi 
believer in e*tra-curri.cular davelopmeni' Look 
. .at the emphisis he placed on it Baker Hallwas 
originally an observatory fori .the Autonomy 
' Club; that's why. therfloors arqslanted^ One of 
Carnegie's clubs was' so well tlevelopejd, it be-. 
came a college withirt the University. - ^
FOLIO: That s the College of F^ne Arts?r 
¦ Ohlberg: That s right. • In fact yp until the early 
60's involvement was mandatory: Then in the 
mid-60's CIT's. as well as the entire country's,
! educational philosophy changed. A looser at* 
titude developed where students were allowed 
to do more things on their own. Things like 
grading themselves in a. course. At that time, 
here at CiT students, were allowed to make 
there own desicion about attending/the Activ- ^ 
¡ties Fair.
FOLIO: And the Activities Fair?
Ohlberg: It's a great place to meet people. And 
the women.i.WOWI! It's- greatll in fact, I 
. met my first wife;atooe; •

---------------------------------------------------

by Joan Livtaki
For all you Freshmen new to the area 
as well .is returning uppcT daymen v/ho 
l«st year just couldn’t find a thing to do 
oilier than study, this is a little reminder 
that there's plenty Jo do, sec, experience, 
enjoy. x:i !c=ni Jhw> ritfit here in Pitts­
burgh and its surrounding vicinity.
Jt’s true Uiut the city was established 
and long centered around llic steel indus­
try. but since its rounding, it lias grown to 
become a place with a culture heritage 
¡mil is forever growing There’s sure to be 
something for everyone’s tastes.
For the less lit»« adventurous student 
who would rather travel us little as neces­
sity, there arc many entertaining pos­
sibilities rifilit here ori campus. Activities 
Board (AB). along with sponsoring con­
certs. lectures, coffeehouses and dunces, 
has two film series at nominal fees. The 
first Thursday . Film'Arts Movie will be 
Jt Happened One Sight on September 7 
in DM 2210 at 6, 8 and 10 PM and the 
rnorc contemporary film series on Fridays 
will start with Oh. God! on the titli at 6, 
8, 10 and 12 PM also in DH 2210.
The Student Dorm Council (SDC) 
sponsors. among other functions. ¡2 free 
Film series on Saturday. Godspcll will open 
this series with a showing in Ph 2210 on 
the 9th.
Oilier on-Campus treats come from dra­
matic shows by our own drama students in 
llic Kresge Theatre and Studio Theatre 
as well as the Student run Scotch V 
Soda. Musical events in the way of con­
certs, recilaJs and opens arc perfonnod by 
CMU music majors and are all open to 
cajnpus and public usually free of charge.
The creative talent of art students and 
faculty alike arc also available for viewing. 
The most prominent showings are at the 
Forbes Street Gallery at the corner of 
Forbes and Margaret Morrison. The first 
Gallery opening will be September 12th (it
7 PM with most subsequent Tuesday 
evenings sporting a new show.
All these lalcnt extravaganzas, profes­
sional and amateur alike, do not even begin
lo include all the entertaining Hungs to do 
on campus. As the song says, "No use just 
silting- ::lunc in your room . . . .” There 
may not always be a Cabaret, but you're 
sure to find dorm dances and parties (nol 
In mention the private little affairs), fru­
it sessions and clustering*
&York on the 5lh, Wuth 
on the 6th, Julia on the /ui, /.ipum 
on the bill. Amarconi on me vm 
Lumivrc on the 10th, and on Monday ih 
llth is Alice’s Restaurant. The Theatre i 
located at 222 Crafi Avenue with twi 
showings nightly at 7:30 and 9:30. Sam 
sccond showings start later, so ii you wan 
to cull in advance the box office open 
nightly at 6:30 with the number to eal 
being 621—4445.
fare ‘ÍJ tPenpi
Siili i 
a!k dow
isfied, you say? Well, a short 
> the Museum of Arl in Oak­
land is sure to cure iliac. Thursday cveninüs
with Luis Uiinucl being the focal point on 
.the 7lli with :i collodion of his Shorts. 
These will be in the Lcciuse Hall al 8 PM. 
Admission is SI.0i). On either a Friday or 
Saturday afternoon each week will be Ihe 
screenins! of one of filmland's classics. This 
Saturday . will be The Hone’s Mouth 
in the Musuem of Art Theatre at 2:30PM, 
admission being SI .00. In addition to these 
fine seti«, The Carnegie Institute also 
offers a History of Film Series, psrsonal 
presentations by visiting filmmakers, free 
screening of colleeiions from ihe Museum 
of Arl Study, as well as other specials. For 
nature enthusiasts, the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History will screen free films every 
Saturday at I PM in the Lecture Hall. 
These will run from September 16th to 
December 9ih and cover everything from 
sharks to horses.
If y'011 feel Ihe urge lo go exploring, 
you'll find Pittsburgh with much to offer. 
You can hike 10 a movie theater in Squirrel 
Kill oc Oakland 01 catch one of the many 
busses, into downtown Pittsburgh when: 
everything front Walt Disney to strictly 
adult films arc there for the viewing.
Now with the proven success of the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Summer Film Festi­
val, we’re glàd to announce that the popu­
lar film series will continue throughout (he 
A fall and winter months as a Film Repertory. 
Each month a selection of new films will 
be added along with some of the past fa­
vorites brought back on a'nionth-lo-monih 
basis. The coming week's attractions offer 
enough to satisfy even the most fanatic 
movie buff, starting with New York, New
While down at the Institute why nol 
check out another artistic find by visiting 
Scaife Gallety or one of the other specialty 
showings. The summer's acclaimed exhibit, 
Treasures of forty Irish Art. will remain on 
display through Ihe 14lh of September. 
Through September lOth.thc Changing 
{‘xkibiis Gallery will feature selected works 
from the M. Graham Neitig Animal Por­
traiture Collection. The Collection contains 
thousands of paintings, drawings and 
photographs by renowned wildlife illustra­
tors and spans 100 years of animal portrai­
ture. Also in the Museum of Natural 
History will be a new gallery,' Museum 
Potpourri. It was started this Summer nol 
for formally organized collections, but 
rather for delightful tidbits left over from 
.exhibits in transit to,or from storage. It's 
bound to be a unique and interesting place 
to visit. An exhibition by one of America's 
photography giants, Lewis -Hinc, will be 
featured at the Museum of Art through 
September 24th. The exhibit . spans his 
most prolific period between 1904 and 
1940 with his basic subject matter being 
Ihe working class in America. His work 
truly shows his concern with human con­
ditions.
Not cotilcni to look at what others have 
done, bui would rather do ii yourself? Well, 
here's your chance. The (heme of (he 
annual contest sponsored by ihe Leonard 
S. Mudge Environmental Education 
Program of Carnegie Museum of Natural 
History this year is Natural World. Several 
categories will be included with winning 
pholos placed 011 display in the Museum as
THÉÂTRE
But not everything al the Museum is dry 
canvass or celluloid film. There's live action 
too. The. Lovelace Theatre cuptivatcs bolli 
children and adults alike wilh their puppet 
anti marionette shows. Theii show ate 
generally Saturday and Sunday Matinees. 
Watch for later listing».
Bet you would never have believed it,. 
but we even have Broadway In Pittsburgh. 
Unless you arrived early, you probably 
missed The Wiz at Heinz Hall, bui fear noi, 
there's more to comc. Neil Simon’s hila­
rious comedy, California Suite v/ill be 
here October 19th through the. 22nd 
followed by '/he Sound of Music with - 
Sally Ann Howes as Maria. The musical 
will run from November 27 through 29. 
For lickct information call Heinz Hall at 
261-8165.
Another expanding Theatre Company Is 
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre which will 
embark on iOmost ambitious season to 
date, presenting six plays In eight months, 
with two presented as a rotating 
repertory. The first of these is The Blood 
Knot (September 27 to October 29) 
written by Athol Fugard..The story is of 
two brothers, one light^kinncd and one 
dark, who remember and rc-live moments 
from their past and explore the dreams 
they share for the future. For lickct and 
time information call 765-3500.
Theatre Express, a touring theatre com­
pany, becomes the city's newest innovative 
resident theatre with the opening, of .the 
company's new home at 4615 Baum Boule* 
yard in Oakland. It was founded by CMU 
Alumni in 1975 and has included a broad 
range of original musicals and plays and 
sclcctions froni the American Contempo­
rary Repertoire. The first of these 
will be The Unlit Corridor by William 
Turner. It's billed as an outrageous 
Vampire Vaudeville, pqr'i comic opera, 
part surrealistic fantasy. For ticket infor­
mation call 621-5454.
The. Pittsburgh Laboratory Theater’s 
seventh season will premier with a prod­
uction Finnegan's Wake, a stage version 
of James Joycc's novel, by Leon Katz. Tlic 
show will run through September 30. Seal­
ing is limited and advance reservations can 
he made by calling 621*2876.
For à little more of Broadway sec one 
or all of »he five Broadway musical coined- 
ies produced by Canielot Productions. Tlic 
season will open on September 15 with 
Pippin, with music and lyrics by Pitts­
burgh's native son Stephen Sclnvariz who 
was also die coinposcr/lyricist fot Godspcll 
and The Magie Show. Por inure ticket 
information call 683-7770.
Whether yon like hard rock, jn-u, folk * 
or classical, Pittsburg!) has it all. Heinz 
llall's Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will 
open its 1978-79 season wiUi Wli Wallach 
and J0I11» Wood shirring in Every Good 
Boy Deserves Favour, by Torn Stoppjird 
and Adre Previn on September 8,9, and 10. 
The show concerns ihe KGB’s imprison­
ment of a Soviet dissident in a mental J> 
assylum where he is forced io sharc a cell 
with a lunatic who believes he belongs lo 
n symphony orchestra. Attendance to the ‘ 
Pittsburgh Symphony programs is by 
season subscription only. For more infor- 
1 call 281-8185.
pf** -
If you’re looking for something wilh a 
little more bounce and spin, the Pittsburgh 
Danec Council will bring eight prestigious 
dance companies to Pittsburgh.The 
Stephen Foster scries will open on Sept-: 
ember 22 wilh Viola Farber Dance; 
Company. For further information call - 
355-0330. More Dance news will appear 
in next week’s TARTAN.
MISCELLANEOUS 
Now if all (his hasn't been enough to 
Now if all this hasn’t been enough lo 
keep you busy, check out Focus: Women 
on Women. This is a fivr part Iccture series 
featuring nationally known women' 
speakers. Lectures are schedules forThurs-. 
day evenings at 8 PM in Carlow College’s 
Kresge Theatre. The first speaker will be 
Pauline Frederick, fonner United Nations 
correspondent for NBC and moderator for 
the second Ford-Carlcr presidential debates 
The lecture will be held September 2Slh 
with admission for the entire scries of five 
lectures being $10 or S2.S0 for Individual 
lectures. For reservations call 681--0660.
The International -Poetry - Fomrir an­
nounces its thirteenth season of reading 
to be held at the Carnegie Lecture Halt 
beginning September 27. Leading off the 
1978-79 series is Wendall Berry, professor 
of English at the University of Kentucky 
and renown author, There will.be addition­
al.programs to be announced later. Season 
subscriptions are S2S with a special price 
of Si 5 for students and senior citizens. For 
more information call 621 -9893.
Say ihcrc slill isn't enough to keep you 
busy? Then come oui and join us a( the 
TARTAN, or at least lei us know wlial you 
want lo read aboui.

---------------------------------------------------

A JERRY WEINTRAUB PRODUCTION 
GEORGE BURNS • JOHN DENVER • “OH, GOD!” • TERIGARR • DONALD PLEASENCE
Based on the Novel by AVERY CORMAN • Screenplay by LARRY GELBART
ggg Produced by JERRY WEINTRAUB • Directed by CARL RE)NER_
Friday, September 8
6,8,10,12 p.m. $T with CMU I.D.
DH 2210 
Activities i3oard Film '
Sponsored by Student Activities Fee .

---------------------------------------------------

F-iS'j ÌO-TARTAM-SsjitOTber 5, 197B
Khoöesiirommems
. Find tJülC’J !¡uns coutil bi- monitored by un ¡ulema- lonul ornanizülion. lls explains, '"Tiiis •emit! teil Nkomo. Mugabe and the resi of he world ihm wc believe the ballot box is iiuiclI more appioppale instrument Ilian
Answer
ESA
guns and war to svttle tiirrcrcnccs and sslecl leaders.”D.svis also believes ilwt llic economic siinctions ajjiiimt Rhodesia should be lifted as soon us possible so ihut irudc ini^ht develop and Rliodesian economy mijltl improve.
Editor's note: Davis' ¡merest in Rho- 
dcsum policy stems from a SU/’A cxchany.e 
program started lust year wkvrc Muck
Rltiidcsfrins would l/c trained us civil vcr- 
i ants. The proyram ran smootldy until 
some of the students received reports from 
home that Mvzwnbiqut radio broadcasts
traitors. Light students tried to elisttnsi eitite 
themselves from the project i>y co>ufcn:n- 
i»K it and lmy< ottiny elasses. These ..stu­
dents were Inter expelled from the Univer-
\ C-BOOK CORRECTION FORM 1973-79;
;lf any of tf«e following information has changed sinco you filled out your:
• 3-D form, plsaso fill oi.t this form and sand in to A Phi O, üox 100, Campus:
¡Mail. :
: ra?.i
: Major 
jPhone 
• Local adcJress
THE ARMY NEEDS PART-TIME OFFICERS,TOO.
If serving sin active duty 
commitment after college 
is stopping you from enroll­
ing in Army RO’I C, we have 
an oprion Air those who 
want to stay home.
The Reserve option 
allows you to serve as a part- 
time officer in your local 
Army Reserve or Army 
National Guard unit.
You II enjoy some of the 
same privileges and bene- 
tits a fuil-rime officer does,
while using your'ROTC 
leadership training to build a 
rewarding civilian career.
And to add to your 
civilian pay, you’ll earn a 
good part-time income, for 
working a lew hours ¡1 month 
(usually one weekend) and 
two full weeks a year.
So don’t let an active . 
duiy commitment cause you 
to pass up the. benefits of 
Army ROTC. Enroll today. 
Because the Army needs 
part-time officers, too.
For more information,
ARMY ROTCLEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD.
Call: 578-2204 or 
578-2205
or visit 
Military Science Dept 
Margaret Morrison 
Level B
/ÖUR FRIENdly 
UKP4T3 Ô“HE«M 
SRI OIRI FK 
OIBe vKcnnnnnnfcoMORE
ro'.c iott
Aftr3T0*£
5K!RO HALL.
Onwry
SK1B0JWLL! 
©.S.cot famlc.e 
FOKlERWüJ

---------------------------------------------------

Mlciders are tre
18l«&^IfljjF
Dflfmlva Captain LlMhaelwr Btìi L*i«»Br.
Tf>e CMU Tartans hope to ba as migluy 
as they were last year when they won tlig President’s Athlctic Conference title willi 
a perfect in-confercncc record of 7-0 
(8-1-0 overall).
The Tana us’ head coach Chuck ¡Clausing 
told this reporter that he expccts this 
year's team to do at least as well as ihc 
team last year. Considerin'» last year’s rc.- 
cord, could he be referring lo post season 
play already? We hope lor such an event-
Mr. Klausing could not offer any defi­
nite evaluation on this year’s freshman 
crop, He pointed .that, with practicc ses­
sions starting on Aug, 22 and with a 
sizable number of freshmen (25) who 
reported only 5 days ago, there has not 
been enough lime to study the freshmen 
thoroughly.
It is to be hoped that the incoming 
proup ol freshmen will provide enough 
trilcni lo prop up the two most damaged 
areas lefl after hist year’s graduating class. 
These are the offensive line and the defen­
sive backficld. Other losses to be repaired 
are at the defensive line (with the depar­
ture of all-confcrcnce players Mike 
Jochmann anil Bob Hnnlz). Last year’s 
leading rusher Kick Leaman, who returns 
as a junior, will presumably lake over the 
chorcs handled by last year’s leading scorer 
Gary Donn, who is no longer with the .
In spite of these losses, Coach Klausing 
. reports that this year’s team has a fine 
nucleus of returning talenl. There are 33 
returning lettermcn (15 of them starters). 
Among the returning stars are the all-
tain Rick Lackner. Reluming t.o support 
him on defense are linebacker Pat Olivo, 
defensive s-nd Mark Demo and defensive
back Uus Sunseri. J* a¦ i A C> \ / C VAside from Kick teaman, the oireiis;-££ Hrv i_ * .
has seniors Craig HJadick and Tony DiOioia^_____________—-
returning as wide rcccivcrs. ¦
m.will cncc i' '
Bob Kcnnccly.
A very good passer, Kennedy is also 
excellent rusher. He was the second leading^ 
rusher on the team last year wilh a total of * 
520 yds. at 6.9 yds. a curry. All in all.v^ 
an exciting quarter back to watch. -yS
The team is brimming with confidence.
Ihe coachcs are opiiniislic; only time will jt- 
tell how great this year’s te;;ni will be. The * 
season's schedule is presented elsewhere. “v* 
We suggest that you attend as many game> 
as you can and spur the team on lo hi^h 
Icvels-of performance. ^
Be a
SPORTSWRITER 
For the TARTAN 
Sign Up at the
Activities Fair
Noon to 6 P.M. on the Cut
OH'-niivo Ctptato Quarierticek Bob Kennedy
Schedules
... to the Cavaliers?^
Jy ThsTARTAN has lourncdthnt Goorw» Horvov. yL, who ployed out his lost tanson as a TARTAN **>¦£ In tprlna '70, hss bcon invited by the Clovolnnd ïj" J^CovalIcfS to attend thair 1973 basketball camp yl j* starting Sept. ’78. For thoso CMU stotbnO that •yî did no! huvo tho pleasure of wutehino Gooroo *n 2?I Jv octlon. ho v»as iho so-c*llcd short (juord who was yL I d^fen^sd 2 or» 1 end oecBMionally 3 on 1 by tho "y*! opponent«. A ramarkablo shooter, «woriioinn Xr I around 25 points par Bams In his yun »vith CMU; yi 
| J*Geof0* *'al a UMnlwou* choito for the oil- conference team ovory yoDr.Georoo was not.draftaci In the raeons MBA *ji \ draft- fteihipc baciuu of hit height and certainly ^
>r4ròm'CMU'baikeiba)l heed coach DaveMetonnyyl I J^BOt him ai» invitation to tho Cavalle»* raceni“^ rookie camp. Impressed wilh him during tcyouts'ïÿ’ with other rookiec, moit of them draft pleks.j^ J*iha Ceteltere ««tended him an invitation to J0'nrT the regular eemp m » free agent. Aj"“Wo wish him all the best and hopo he makasyt. j^Tlhe teem. Wouldn't anybody luit lovo the I do 3, of a CMU esr on an NBA tenmt Wowl 5^
'^iïr ? « ? ? ? ? it ir
Sept. 9 California State...............l:30-pir Catch the Women
16Ohio Wesleyan ¡H ACtiOll tOO !
WOMEN’S FIELD HOCKEY
Sept. 21 Wasliington & Jefferson .4:00 pm 
Sept. 23 Bethany*. . ........ 11:00 am
Sept. 28 Chatham ......................4:45 pm
Sept 30 I.U.P..........................11:00 am
Oct. 3 Bethany.................... .4:00 pm
Oct. 5 Chatham .........4:4S pm
Ocl. 9 Washington & Jefferson * 5;00 pm
* Homeuame
TARTAN
Needs
PHOTO­
GRAPHERS
Sign up at the 
Activities Fair
Noon to 6 P.M.
ON THE CUT
. 1:30 pm
Sept. 23 Hiram *..........................1:30 pm
Sepl. 30'Casc Western Reserve *. . 1:30 pm
Ocl. 7 Bethany.................. . .2:00 pm
Oct. 14 Washington & Jefferson .1:30 pm
Oct. 21 Alletheny HC * ...........1:30 pm
Ocl. 28 John Carroll*........... .. 1:30 pm
Nov, 4 Thiel............................1:30 pm
CROSS COUNTRY
Sept 9 W.Va. Invitational. /. . 10:00 am 
Sepl 12 Westminster ........ .4:00 pm
Sept. 20 Allegheny/Bethany . . . .4:00 pm 
Sept. 30 Indiana InvitationaJ. . . 11:00 am
Oct. 7 Hifam/Jeannelte.........11:00 am
Oct.' ¡4' W &. J/Case Western« . -. 1:00 pm
Opt. 21 W. Va.-USTFF Meet. . .............
Oct. 28 John Carroli/Thiel». ... 11:00 am 
Nov. 4' PAC Championship • . . 11:00 am 
SOCCER
Sept 23 John Carroll............ .. 1:30 pm
Sept 27 Pitt......................  -7:00 pm
Sepl. 30 Case Western Reserve . . . 1:30 pm
Oct, 3 Pilt-Johnstown*...........3:30pm
Oct: 6 Beihany. ......................3:30 pm
Oct 10 Washington &. Jefferson •‘3:30 pm
Oct. 14 Cannon*......................1:00pm
Oct. 17 Si. Vincent. ..................3:00 pm
Ocl.20 Hiram#.................. • - .3:30pm
Oct.27 Alletheny*................3:30pm
Nov. 4 Grove City......................1:00 pm

---------------------------------------------------


