IFobulous Fifties Draw Near
•^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53—NUMBER 4 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1959
•Homecoming Queen Finalists
To ni SamsSue SeeklerAlice Werboff
Homecoming Queen To 
Begin Reign On Friday
As a result of last week’s balloting, the three finalists for 
Homecoming Queen have been announced. They are Suzanne 
Seekler, Alice Werboff, and Toni Sams.0 Suzanne Seekler is a clothing and textile major from New 
Wilmington, Pennsylvania. A1-#-------------------------------------------------------------
though she is not yet active in 
school activities, she is planning 
to participate in several, including 
Tarquans. Suzanne is kept busy 
with her studies, and feels that 
Tech is giving her a very well- 
rounded academic program.
Alice Werhoff hails from East 
Meadow, New York and is in the 
painting and design department. 
£e had expressed interest in 
Scotch and Soda and in Student 
Congress, among others.
Toni Sams is a voice major 
out on Carnegie Day. The dance
Thistle Pictures
October 24, is the last day 
for pictures. Seniors, frater­
nity, and sorority pictures 
£must be taken by then! Don’t 
forget to make your appoint­
ment.
Twenty-Five 
Girls Pledged
Upperclass sorority rush ended 
^t Wednesday with the result 
taat 25 girls have been pledged 
to membership in the seven soror­
ities. The pledges are:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Nancy
Kasdan, Barb Liman, and Judy 
Weiss.
Chi Omega: Diane Celio, Sandy 
Glahn, Fran Jones, Carol Mes­
sing, Fannie Midgley, Jean Ogro- 
sky, and Corinne Willis.
Delta Delta Delta: “Doc” Fet- 
cfco and Joan Balent.
•Delta Gamma: Kathy Metcalf 
and Pat DeRoma.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Pat Down­
er.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Alice 
Gealy, Marcie Murphy, Pat Mur­
ray, Rita Paris, Sue Gordon, and 
Janis Berg.
Sigma Kappa: Mary Davidson, 
Mary Frances Gazze, Jane Gresh, 
and Marian Krall.
tickets will go on sale in Skibo 
Monday.
The committee also announced 
from Arnold, Pennsylvania. Like 
the other Homecoming Queen 
candidates Toni loves Tech and 
has been thriving on the excite­
ment of the contest.
All three candidates are na­
turally thrilled at their selection 
and will do their best to well 
represent Tech.
The Homecoming Committee 
has announced that the Home­
coming schedules will be distri­
buted to the fraternities, to Don- 
ner Hall and will also be given 
that the master of ceremonies for 
the Homecoming Program will be 
Art Pallon of KDKA Radio.
The fraternity displays, an im­
portant part of the Homecoming 
activities, will be judged on Fri­
day night. The first judging will 
be at 5:00 p.m., and the final 
judging will take place after din­
ner.
The Homecoming Committee 
also has said that Scotch and Soda 
will present entertainment at the 
halftime of the game.
Debating Union 
Opens Season 
At Grove City
“Resolved: That Congress 
should be given the power to re­
verse decisions of the Supreme 
Court.” This topic will be argued 
by Tech debaters throughout their 
busy season which will be high­
lighted by tournaments at Du- 
quesne, New York University, the 
University of Pittsburgh, and 
West Virginia.
A novice team from Tech will 
officially open the season on Oc­
tober 24, at Grove City. On Octo­
ber 31, the first-year debaters 
travel to Hamilton College, Clin­
ton, New York. Varsity debate 
opens with a tournament at Grove 
City on October 31.
[continued on page 6]
Freshmen 
Leadership
Student Congress is extend­
ing an invitation to freshmen 
to attend the Fall Leadership 
Conference in 100 Porter Hall 
on Wednesday, October 14, at 
4:30 p.m.
Those attending will have 
an opportunity to become a 
part of Student Congress* ac­
tivities.
PiDE Announces 
The New 1960 
WRITE Contest
Pi Delta Epsilon announces the 
opening of the WRITE contest 
this year. The contest is open to 
all Tech students, including night 
school students. There are six 
prizes this year—six $25 prizes 
for each of the five journalism 
organizations on campus and a 
$15 general prize for the best 
freshman entry received.
This year there is a new revised 
booklet describing the general 
contest rules and the specific rules 
for the Scot, Tartan, Thistle, 
Technical, and' WRCT. These 
booklets may be picked up at 
Morewood Gardens, Dean Strick’s 
office, or at the SAE Fraternity 
House. In addition, a complete set 
of rules will be published later in 
the Tartan and the first issue of 
the Scot.
Entries
The contest runs until April 1, 
1960 when all entries will be 
judged by a group of Pittsburgh 
radio and newspapermen and 
members of the faculty. Winners 
will be announced at Call Day 
during Spring Carnival. All en­
tries should be sent to Bob Beaty, 
c/o WRITE, 1085 Morewood Ave­
nue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa., or left 
at the SAE house. Each entry 
should be clearly marked for 
which publication it is intended.
The contest should offer a suf­
ficient challenge to any Tech stu­
dent to make the contest inter­
esting. The $25 prize for each 
publication should also offer a 
large incentive, so enter any or all 
of the five divisions as many 
times as you care to. The financial 
and competitive rewards should 
make it well worth anyone’s ef­
forts.
Dedication of Doherty House 
To Be Homecoming Highlight
The return to campus of the charter class of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College, together with the dedication of 
the new Robert E. Doherty Graduate House, will be high­
lights of Carnegie Tech’s annual homecoming celebration set
for Friday, Saturday and Sunday,?--------------------------------------------- —------ 
October 16 thru 18.
Of the 34 members of the 
charter class whose addresses are
filed in the alumni office, appro­
ximately 18 are expected to at­
tend, Their 50th anniversary re­
union will begin with a luncheon 
on Friday in Margaret Marrison 
Carnegie College at which Car­
negie President, Dr. John C. War­
ner, will present the ladies with 
sterling pendant necklaces bear­
ing the Carnegie seal.
The entire class of 1909, the 
second class in Carnegie history 
to celebrate its 50th anniversary, 
will have about 45 members re­
turning. Their reunion will offi­
cially begin on Friday evening 
with a dinner in the Hotel Web­
ster Hall.
Homecoming Queen
The Homecoming program will 
begin with the Carnegie Day Pro­
gram in the gymnasium at 1:30 
p.m. on Friday. Selections by the 
Kiltie Band and Cameron Choir, 
and the presentation of student 
honorary awards will lead to one 
of the highlights of the exercises, 
the crowning of the Homecoming 
Queen by Dr. Warner.
Following the program at the 
gymnasium, alumni and faculty
will go to a reception and tea at 
the Mudge Graduate House, at 
the corner of Fifth and Morewood 
Avenues for the formal opening 
of a new addition to' the house.
One of the big events of the 
Homecoming weekend will occur 
Saturday morning at 10:30 when 
the new Robert E. Doherty Grad­
uate House will be dedicated. The 
new apartment building for mar­
ried graduate students will be 
officially dedicated by Mrs. Do­
herty, wife of the late Carnegie 
president.
Following the dedication merit 
and service awards will be pre­
sented to outstanding alumni at 
the all-alumni homecoming 
luncheon. After the luncheon the 
alumni will go to Forbes Field 
for the Carnegie Tech versus 
Grove City football game at 2:00 
p.m. A pageant presenting the 
Homecoming Queen will be the 
between halves attraction.
The alumn will complete their 
weekend with a fifth quarter re­
ception and a gala all-alumni 
dinner dance at the Webster Hall 
Hotel. Meanwhile, fraternities will 
vie for an award for the best 
Homecoming displays and com­
plete the weekend with a dance 
in the gymnasium.
“Shape of Survival” Debates 
To Mark UN’s 14th Birthday
What adaptations must man make to survive the ex­
plosive 20th century with his civilization intact?
Four national leaders of government, science, world 
affairs and journalism will tackle that question in Pittsburgh 
this fall in a unique series of pub-*-------:---------------------------------------------------
lie debates called ‘‘The Shape of 
Survival.”
Opening with Congressman 
Chester Bowles (D., Conn.) Octo­
ber 19, the debates will be Pitts­
burgh’s ' commemoration of the 
14th birthday of the United Na­
tions.
Described as “an experiment 
aimed at bringing the public into 
contact with eminent national per­
sonalities for discussion of prob­
lems threatening the peace of the 
world,” the series takes place at 
Oakland’s Carnegie Lecture Hall 
on four Monday evenings during 
October and November.
Details Announced 
Bowles, former US Ambassador 
to India, will discuss the turbu­
lence sweeping across Africa and 
Asia when he opens the series with 
a program called “The Explod­
ing Continents,” which will probe 
the successes and shortcomings of 
American policy toward the emer­
gent peoples.
Nuclear Nightmare 
Renowned scientist Charles C. 
Price, recipient of America’s high­
est award in chemical research, 
will be featured November 2 in a 
debate called “An Escape from the 
Nuclear Nightmare.” The relative 
risks of disarmament proposals
and continued nuclear buildup 
will be weighed.
On November 9, one of the na­
tion’s foremost authorities on Ger­
many and Europe, author James 
P. Warburg, will tackle the ques­
tion “Two Germanys or One?” 
Professor Sergio DeBenedetti of 
the Tech Physics Department will 
be among the panelists exploring 
the questions of a demilitarized 
corridor in Europe and the Berlin 
dilemma.
American Policy
The outspoken Washington cor­
respondent of England’s Manches­
ter Guardian, Max Freedman, will 
close the series with a debate 
called “Propaganda, Public Opin­
ion and US Policy.” Pressures 
that influence American foreign 
policy will be probed.
Following the Bowles lecture, 
the audience will attend a recep­
tion to be held by the Pittsburgh 
Commission for UNESCO, featur­
ing food of India and other na­
tions.
A number of student tickets at 
$.50 are available for each program 
through Dr. Robert Morgan, 142 
E Administration Hall. Regular 
price is $4 for the series, $1.25 for 
individual tickets.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, October 14, 1959
DL Wo<U Sc
Bicentennial Symposium
By Dave Stock
Those who attended the Carnegie Symposium of the Arts 
held last weekend were struck by the recurrence of a singular 
theme; the similarity between the creative artist and the 
scientist.
Each of the speakers stressed 
the growing interdependence of 
these two seemingly diametrically 
opposed groups. There has never 
really been a difference between 
the goals of the scientist and the 
artist; both are searching for the 
same thing; truth. Each interprets 
the world of experience in his 
own way, the scientist with the 
symbols of mathematics, and the 
artist with the symbols of color, 
shape, and sound. Each uses his 
own kind' of logic and form, yet 
is still dependent on the intuitive 
imagination to provide the spark. 
In the creative sciences, as in the 
creative arts, all the formal train­
ing, knowledge, and logic in the 
world are meaningless without 
the catalyst of intuition.
Layman’s Picture
To the average layman, the 
modern arts present a picture of 
chaos: abstract painting and
sculpture, atonal music, indeciph­
erable poetry, all seem far from 
the material world of common 
sense. How few realize that mod­
ern science presents the same
kind of picture! Most of the av­
erage man’s artistic values stem 
from a past tradition of an order­
ly world of nature, a world New­
ton made. To most people an 
apple is just what is seems, but 
the scientist and the artist ,of to­
day see much deeper; an apple is 
a incredible bundle of energy, 
with a motion of its own, capable 
of creation or destruction. The 
artist can no longer paint a nice 
round, red, apple, because that is 
not what he really sees. He may 
not know the first thing about 
science, but, since he lives in the 
age of Einstein, his thinking has 
been shaped along lines peculiar 
to this age. The theory of rela­
tivity shows that seemingly con­
stant events will in reality ap­
pear different to different ob­
servers. Science, in its owp way, 
is now becoming subjective, just 
as the arts have become.
Our Actual Pattern 
Some may claim that it is only 
critical hindsight which finds 
[continued on page 6]
Carnegie Day Program
Selections by the Kiltie Symphonic Band
George E. Reynolds, Director
Master Of Ceremonies...............Jeremiah Sullivan, Physics ’60
Selection by the Kiltie Band
Alumni Message.......................................Mr. Alfred S. Andrews
President, Alumni Federation 
Call of Honoraries
Alpha Phi Omega....................Kenneth Thompson, Arch. ’62
Phi Kappa Phi..............*.............................Dr. Ralph G. Crum
Assistant Professor, Civil Engineering
Claymore Clan............................Raymond Istvanick, P.M. ’60
Phi Tau Gamma...........................Judith Heinsberg, H.E. ’61
Omicron Delta Kappa................Nathaniel Teich, P.M. 60
.Suzanne Maclean, H.E. ’60 
.Timothy McGuire, I.M. ’60
Omicron Nu ........................
Tau Beta Pi..........................
Selections by the Cameron £hoir. .Richard L. Camp, Director
Delta Skull......................John Patrick Cercine, Physics ’61
Pi Tau Sigma..........................................Joseph Vilga, M E. ’60
Tau Sigma Delta..........................William Shopsin, Arch. ’60
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia.....................Edward Byerly, M. ’60
Pi Delta Epsilon..........................Edward Blum, Chem. E. ’61
Sigma Alpha Iota..............................Greta Gilmartin, M. 61
Selection by Kiltie Band
Awards and Presentations 
Presentation of Senior Class Plaque by
Delta Skull........................John Patrick Cercine, Physics ’61
Council of Fraternity President’s
Scholarship Trophy..........................Michael Bass, Physics ’60
Pittsburgh Panhellenic Trophy... .Gloria Cofsky, Bus. St. 60
Junior Panhellenic Trophy....................Marcia Bridge, H.E. ’62
Mortar Board Award.........................Myrna Colburn, D. ’60
Tau Beta Pi Freshman Awards. .. .Timothy McGuire, I.M. ’60
Freshman Traditions Award..........William Ellis, Chem. E. ’62
Scholars and Honor Students..................Dr. Robert Schwarz
Associate Professor, History 
Chairman, General Faculty 
Presentation of President J. C. Warner.. .Dr. Robert Schwarz
Chairman, General Faculty 
Coronation of the Homecoming Queen
Coronation Processional..............................The Kiltie Pipers
Scabbard and Blade
Crowning of the Queen...............................President Warner
Court Entertainment..............Mary E. Davidson, Gen. St. ’62
Official Opening of Homecoming...............Homecoming Queen
Fight for the Glory of Carnegie.......................Robert Schmertz
The Kiltie Symphonic Band 
Co-Chairmen: Juditl> Fox and Michael Bass. Kenneth 
Thompson, John Hood, Thomas Hajduk, Barry Weiss, Vir­
ginia Volz, Charles Gallagher, Lann Malesky, Patricia Lin- 
burn, John Fry, Ruth Kibler, Joan Appleton, John Evans, 
Martha McGee, David Mears, Edward McEwen, Steven Ren- 
ard, Teresa Rudy, Diane Celio, Dennis Kompare, Jerry Leh- 
and Zendy Long.
Scotch ’n Soda
MACK IS 
BACK AT 
TECH! ! S ’n S
“Camille’' First 
Main Stage Play
The first main stage play of 
the season to be presented by the 
drama department of Fine Arts 
will be “Camille” by Alexandre 
Dumas, beginning on October 24, 
and continuing through November 
3.
Playing Camille will be Ana 
Elder, a special student from 
Brazil, with John Meyer as Ar- 
mand. Also in the production will 
be Alan Lindgren, Susan Trust- 
man, Michael Geller, Jane Hill, 
Arthur Lewis, and Denise F. 
Buck.
Following Camille will be ‘'Re­
hearsal” by Jean Anovich, playing 
from November 21 through De­
cember 7. “Rehearsal” will be di­
rected by Charles Werner Moore. 
Three one-acts, “Sweeney Agon­
ists” by T. S. Elliot, “Antigione” 
by Jean Cacteau and “Full Moon 
in March” by W. B. Yeats, all 
poetic dramas, will be presented 
as one presentation later in the 
semester.
Before this year, all the main 
roles have been double cast. How­
ever, for the first time there will 
be no double casting, giving the 
actors experience of continuous 
runs. There will be understudies 
instead.
Tickets for “Camille” will be 
available to students beginning at 
4 p.m., Tuesday, October 20, in 
the Fine Arts building, room 106.
Student Gov’t 
In Operation
At the Student Congress meet­
ing last Wednesday, various com­
mittee heads were announced; 
they are: Activities—Joe Matis, 
Constitutio n—John Lepperd, 
which also makes him the Con­
gress parliamentarian, Finance— 
Jim Sharkey, Library — John 
Hood, Public Relations — Dale 
Coulson, Elections—Peter Boux- 
sein, and Campus Chest—Terry 
Rudy.
Nancy Tull gave the Congress 
policy on absenteeism, stating 
that an organization’s loses its 
vote in Congress if its representa­
tive misses two consecutive meet­
ings or a total of three. Nancy 
also mentioned that all new busi­
ness for Congress must be sub­
mitted by the Thursday before the 
Wednesday of Congress meeting.
Homecoming
Mike Bass, of the Homecoming 
committee reported that every­
thing for homecoming was going 
according to schedule. The escorts 
for the judges have been arrang­
ed, Art Pallan has agreed to be 
master of ceremonies at the 
Pledge Cheer, and the ticket sales 
will be handled this week in Ski- 
bo and the dorms.
The Leadership Conference 
Committee chaiman, Ed Blum, an­
nounced that the name of his 
committee had been changed to 
Leadership Committee so that it 
would be more inclusive. The 
Freshmen Leadership Conference 
is to be held today at 4:30. Fresh­
men will have the opportunity to 
hear how Congress committees 
function and to sign for an ap­
prenticeship on one if they wish. 
Ed also pointed out that the 
INSTEP program students will 
[continued on paye 8]
Scotch ’n Soda
BEWARE 
ALL. YE 
WOMEN 
see page 3
WRCT Schedule
Wednesday, October 14—10:00 p.m.—Personality with 
Don Heilman & Co., for an hour of happy Spike Jones and 
gay polkas.
Thursday, October 15—5:00 p.m.—Variety with Stu War- 
shawsky. This week, Gilberty & Sullivan Overtures, Music 
for Lovers, and Gaite Parisienne.
Saturday, October 17—1:00 p.m.—Live broadcast of the 
homecoming football game—Grove City vs. Tech.
Sunday, October 18—10:00 p.m.—Rezod and Prometheus 
bring you modern jazz, the latest in beat music and humor, 
and poems read to jazz!
with
MaxShuIman
(Author of “7 Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis”, ete.)
STUDYING CAN BE SCREAMS
If studying is bugging you, try mnemonics.
Mnemonics, as we all know, was invented by the great Greek 
philosopher Mnemon in 526 B.C. (Mnemonics, incidentally, 
was only one of the inventions of this fertile Athenian. He also 
invented the staircase which, as »you may imagine, was of 
inestimable value to mankind. Before the staircase people 
who wished to go from floor to floor were forced to live out 
their lives, willy-nilly, on the ground floor, and many of them 
grew cross as bears. Especially Demosthenes who was elected 
Consul of Athens three times but never served because he was 
unable to get up to the office of Commissioner of Oaths on the 
third floor to be sworn in. But after Mnemon’s staircase, 
Demosthenes got up to the third floor easy as pie—to Athens’ 
Borrow, as it turned out. Demosthenes, his temper shortened 
by years of confinement to the ground floor, soon embroiled hie 
countrymen in-a series of senseless wars with the Persians, the 
Visigoths and the Ogallala Sioux. He was voted out of office m 
517 B.C. and Mnemon, who had made his accession possible, 
was pelted to death with fruit salad in the Duomo. This later 
became known as the Missouri Compromise.)
(//
~ (
'irdflooriok front (R..
But I digress. We were discussing mnemonics, which are nothing 
more than aids to memory—catchwords or jingles that help you 
remember names, dates and places. For example:
Columbus sailed the ocean bltw
In fourteen hundred ninety-two. ^
See how simple? Make up your own jingles. What, for in­
stance, is the important event immediately following Colum­
bus’s discovery of America? The Boston Tea Party, of course.
Try this:Samuel Adams flung the tea 
Into the briny Zuyder Zee.
(NOTE: The Zuyder Zee was located in Boston Harbor until 
1904 when Salmon P. Chase traded it to Holland for Louisiana 
and two outfielders.) -
But I digress. To get back to mnemonics, you can see how 
simple and useful they are—not only for history but also for 
everyday living; for instance:
In nineteen hundred fifty-nine 
The smoke to look for is A Ipine.
“Why Alpine?” you ask. Taste that fine, fresh flavor. Enjoy 
that subtle coolness. Until Alpine you needed two cigarettes to 
reap the benefits of Alpine—one for flavor, one for high filtra­
tion—and smoking two cigarettes is never graceful; in fact, 
with mittens it is nigh impossible. Now you need only one ') 
cigarette—Alpine. Get some. You’ll see.9 W6I Mm
The sponsor» of this column make Alpine, Philip Morris 
mnd Marlboro Cigarettes. Pick what you please. What you 
pick will please you.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 14, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S...10.
Coed Of 5L Week
Barbara Staats
Painting and Design
Development Program 
Builds New Campus
By George Logan
At long last, we are actually able to see. evidence of pro­
gress in Tech’s much-talked of development program. The 
sounds of heavy machinery and dynamic blasts remind us al­
most every day that construction is underway on certain
l^(§bses of the ten-year program.*------------------------------------------------------------
On the cut, excavations are
presently being made at the site 
of the new Campus Activities 
Center. This building, expected to 
be completed by next fall, will 
combine and considerably surpass 
the functions of both Skibo and 
the present Union.
Porter Hall
Elsewhere, we see men at work 
on the proposed Porter Hall ex- 
Wision (ten classrooms, four 
offices, and a faculty house and 
student lounge). Behind Boss and 
McGill Halls huge chunks are 
being cut out of the hillside to 
make room for the new dormi­
tories — rumored to be resplen­
dent with sun porches. These 
dormitories, incidentally, will be 
partly government financed.
Several other buildings are still 
in the planning stage. The Hunt 
Jfemorial Library, which will oc­
cupy the present site of Skibo 
and will contain a complete bo- 
tannical library in additfbn to 
the regular library, is still on the 
drawing board. No plans are as 
yet drawn up for the Dramatic 
Arts Center — it seems no one 
can decide where to put it. The 
latest idea — not, we hope, the 
final decision — places the build­
ing on the tennis courts. Also in 
JVe planning stages is the Alan M. 
Scaife Hall of Engineering — 
which may not be built at all if 
Tech gains control of the Federal 
Bureau of Mines property. New 
properties already acquired by 
the school include the Canterbury 
House and the Woodlawn Apart­
ments.
Cost
The cost of the development 
program was originally set at 
04,350,000. IJowever, unexpected 
miscalculations, such as an error 
of about fifty per cent in the 
determination of the amount of 
dirt to be pushed into the Tech 
Bowl, have caused the upward 
revision of the estimate to $27,- 
000,000. Of this, about $19,000,000 
has already been collected, with 
large chunks of this coming from 
individual donors. Fund raising
seems to be running far ahead of 
schedule,, and even farther ahead 
of actual construction. Too many 
Tech engineers on the job?
Clubs Reserve 
Thistle Space
s Organizations wishing to re­
serve space in the 1960 Thistle 
should submit their fall calendar 
and $5.00 to the yearbook.
All organizations (except soror­
ities and fraternities, which are 
contacted separately) may apply 
for space in the Thistle by writ­
ing to the Organizations Editor, 
in'care of the Thistle, Box 122. 
by Wednesday, October 21.
The $5.00 fee, requested this 
year for the first time, insures the 
club that pictures will be taken 
and space reserved in the year­
book. Three dollars will be re­
turned if the organization co-op­
erate? by sending in its calendar, 
100 words of copy explaining or 
describing the purpose and events, 
and the money.
If a club is planning a special 
event not listed on the original 
calendar, it should contact the 
organization editor at least ten 
days beforehand. In case of any 
changes in dates, meeting place 
or time, the Thistle should bt 
contacted.
S "n Publicity 
Positions Open
Known last year as the “mov- 
ingest” group on the campi, the 
Scotch ’n Soda publicity crew is 
soon starting their operations. 
Prior to the birth of Scotch ’n 
Soda’s 1960 publicity crew, sev­
eral important positions must be 
filled. The collegiate musical 
group is now looking for an art 
director and a photographer to 
start the publicity gang rolling. 
All those interested in applying 
for either of these two positions, 
write Box 258 before Saturday, 
October 24.
CMeg late 
C^u (tura ( 
C^ciiencltar
By Maxine Brown
Pittsburgh, the workingman’s 
town, is to have the once-in-a- 
blue-moon pleasure of meeting a 
theatrical world premiere. The 
play i s “Goodbye Charlie” by 
George Axelrod. The stars are 
Lauren Bacall and Sydney Chap­
lin. The place is the Nixon Thea­
tre. Curtain goes up every eve­
ning next week at 8:30 p.m. with 
matinees on Wednesday at 2:00 
p.m. and Saturday at 2:30 p.m.
Another comedy is currently 
being seen at the Playhouse. 
“Once More With Feeling” has 
taken over the stage in a happy- 
go-lucky fashion.
The drama department will dis­
tribute student tickets on Tues­
day, October 20, for the classic 
“Camille,” by Dumas.
Pittsburgh Symphony
The Pittsburgh Symphony 
opens the season this weekend 
with Mahler’s “Song of the 
Earth.” Also on the music bill is 
the Charles Bell Contemporary 
Jazz Quartet Concert at Carnegie 
Lecture Hall Saturday. If you like 
to sit quietly and “dig” the 
“sounds,” this is for you.
If you choose not to stir from 
campus this weekend, — Happy 
Homecoming!
Scotch ’n Qoda’s 
I960 Production 
Pi *ornises A Hit
Scotch ’n Soda happily reports 
that the response from script 
writers was excellent. The mate­
rial presented promises the mak­
ings of the best show Scotch 'n 
Soda has ever produced. Because 
of the great enthusiasm of the 
group, Scotch ’n Soda is already 
moving at a rapid pace. Although 
the actual production doesn’t take 
place until next spring, a great 
deal of organizational planning 
must be done in the fall.
It won’t be long now until the 
meetings of the publicity and 
technical crews begin. Announce­
ments and letters will be issued 
about these gatherings sometime 
after homecoming, at which time, 
long-term plans will be discussed.
Thistle Staff
There will 'ue no Thistle meet­
ing Friday, October 16. However, 
the meeting will be held as usual 
the following Friday.
Citcom Clan
This weekend and next are 
empty for Citcom Clan because 
of Homecoming; but on Halloween 
night there will be a hayride. 
Some events which follow gre: 
November 14, a swimming party; 
December 5, a roller skating party; 
January 9, a square dance, and 
about seven more events next 
semester.
Clan members, and non-mem-, 
bers also, are urged to read the 
Clan bulletin board in Skibo or 
contact any officer when inter­
ested in the coming schedule.
Film Arts
The Film Arts Society wishes to 
announce that tickets for the fall 
season are all sold.
Emerson Club
Modern democracy, status seek­
ing, the welfare state, automation 
—are these free man’s greatest 
enemies? This is the question to 
be resolved in the Emerson Club’s 
new series of Sunday evening dis­
cussions at the First Unitarian 
Church, corner of Ellsworth and 
Morewood. Dr. Edwin Fenton, as­
sistant professor of history at Car­
negie Tech, will discuss the first 
phase of the problem, “Modern 
Democracy,” at 6:00 Sunday, Octo­
ber 18, following dinner at 5:00 
(just 50 cents per person). The 
evening will be completed with a 
social hour following Dr. Fenton’s 
presentation.
Phi Kappa Phi
Phi Kappa Phi will hold its 
first meeting of the 1959-60 sea­
son this Wednesday, room 1112. 
The purpose of the meeting is the 
election of seniors to the chapter.
VOLLUM E53 —3 N5BR4Wby Dick Bibler
ONe Nice 'THING AftOUTTHIS COURSe-YOU ONLY HAVE 0f€ TftT TO W-*
The Great Scot 
On Sale Oct. 26
JUST A REMINDER . . .
Goldenfeld's Market
IS NOW IN OPERATION WITH A COMPLETE LINE OF 
THE FINEST SELECT
Groceries and Choice Meats
At 414? S. (,raig Street
WITH PERSONAL and COURTEOUS SERVICE 
VISIT US FOR ALL YOUR NEEDS
MARTIN GOLDENFELD, Prop.
Woodrow Wilson Fellowships 
Available For Graduate Study
The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation to­
day announced the opening of competition for its fellowships 
for the academic year 1960-61.
The chief purpose of the fellowship program is to offset
the critical shortage of qualified?---------------------------------------------- 11 ...
college teachers by encouraging j students are invited to declare 
college seniors of outstanding themselves as active candidates 
ability to consider college teach- for awarcj by completing the 
mg careers. necessary application forms. Win-
To this end the Wilson Foun- ners of the award are selected 
dation annually awards 1000 fel- through screenings of the appli- 
lowships for first-year graduate J cations and personal interviews by 
study at any university of the regional selection committees, 
recipients choice in the United j made up of faculty members from 
States or Canada. Woodrow Wil- the regions’ universities and col- 
son Fellowships carry a stipend 
of $1500, plus full tuition and 
fees, and, in the case of married 
fellows, a dependency allowance 
for wives and children. The pro­
gram is open to college graduates 
in the natural and social sciences 
and in the humanities. Both men 
and women are eligible, and there 
is no limit on the age of the can­
didate or the number of years he 
may have been out of college.
Those who receive awards are 
not asked to commit themselves 
to college teaching, but merely to 
“seriously consider” it as a pos­
sible career.
The Woodrow Wilson Founda­
tion does not accept applications 
directly from students. Candidates 
for the award must be nominated 
by a faculty member. Nominated
leges.
The closing date for nomina­
tions for the academic year 1960- 
1961 is October 31 1959. Nomi­
nations should be sent to the 
Chairman of the selection com­
mittee for the region in which 
the prospective candidate is now 
located.
The chairman for the New Jer­
sey-Pennsylvania region is Pro­
fessor John A. Lester, Jr., Box 
247, Haverford, Pa. The repre­
sentative of the Wilson Founda­
tion on the Tech Campus is Pro­
fessor Paul L. Ward of the history 
department, A.H. 132 A. Dr. Ward 
will be contacting members of the 
Tech faculty this month about the 
candidates, and he will be glad 
to confer with anyone who is in­
terested.
#

---------------------------------------------------

Fage 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, October 14, 1959
Editorial
Influence of Education
Never in man’s history has he faced the opportunities 
that now lie before him. With the tools and knowledge that 
are now available he can hope to cope with the social prob­
lems of over-population, poverty and war. Man can hope to 
shelter and clothe his fellow being and offer the chance of 
education to all.
Yet man into day’s world is not without a grim challenge 
to overcome if he is to succeed. There is the ever present dan­
ger of an all out nuclear war, capable of destroying the civili­
zation of man and altering his genetic structure. For man to 
make best use of the opportunity to bring good into the world, 
he must accompany his increased understanding of the physi­
cal universe with a greater understanding of himself and the 
use of greater self-control. If we- believe that this can be 
done only through human freedom, then we must strive to 
do our best and to develop the will and courage to carry 
out our goals.
To believe in human freedom is to believe in the ability 
of the individual; the ability to understand the many sides 
of a problem and to choose with patience and foresight the 
best solution and finally the ability to assume on his own, a 
portion of the duties of his government. If we believe in the 
ability of the individual, then we are placing our tfust in the 
influence of education.
The destiny of the American people is intimitely in­
volved with the future of other peoples of the world. Long 
ago the United States became the champion of the free peo­
ples of the world and the symbol for those who want to be 
free. Even if the Soviet Union was not building up an empire 
founded on principles diametrically opposite to our own, we 
should still sense this responsibility. The fact that the Soviet 
Union is seeking world domination makes these responsibili­
ties ever greater.
While the physical threat of the Soviet state is clear to 
everyone, the more subtle threat comes in our area of be­
liefs and values. Soviet beliefs and actions challenge our 
belief that free men can govern themselves. While our enemy 
arms itself for any occasion, it seldom uses this kind of might. 
Instead he wraits for the corruption and morul failure of our 
society.
The Soviet educational system firmly supports the capa
bilities of the Soviet society. The 
many Soviet achievements in the 
areas of industry, science and 
propaganda show clearly the ef­
ficient way in which the Soviet 
make use of their brainpower and 
resources. Their success makes 
our position, dedicated to freedom, 
a clear one. We must be as mean­
ingful and effective as our foes 
have been.
However, our education can not 
merely imitiate theirs for our 
aims, practices and principles a/e 
far different. Their system calls 
for acceptance without question, 
ours calls for reasoning and eval­
uation. Our system rests on indi- 
divual initiative and voluntary ac­
tion rather than on required serv­
ice and conditioned response. If 
freedom is to succeed, individuals 
must be educated to their great­
est potentials, giving them full 
opportunity to serve their society.
To realize this goal we must 
develop a more efficient educa­
tional system. Man must gain a 
realistic understanding of our way 
of life and how it works, politic­
ally, socially and economically. To 
achieve this the American people 
should vastly increase the amount 
being spent on schools, colleges 
and institutions. We must pay our 
teachers and educators much 
more. We cannot afford to do oth­
erwise. Money alone, however, is 
not the answer. We have to better 
understand the education issue 
and to give more praise to the 
teachers and our educators. Only 
then is the world on the road to 
reaching its final peace.
J.D.S.
Assembly
Dr. Alex Vujan, noted Pitts­
burgh psychiatrist, will speak 
at the assembly Tuesday, Oc­
tober 20, at 11:30 a.m. in the 
Fine Arts Theater. Dr. B. Von 
Haller Gilmer, head of the de­
partment of psychology, will 
make the introduction.
Why Spring Carnival?
Editor, The Tartan:
According to a recent Pitt News (October 5, 1959), which 
managed to find its wray through the barbed wire security 
precautions that seem to exist between the two schools—Pitt
students are again ascerting them-*------------------------------------------------------------
selves as truly progressive and j tend the next drama department 
thinking students. i production?—Or are you the one
At a recent student government | who finds your relaxation else- 
committee meeting on Spring Car- where, as you glide from Rush 
nival, attended with almost disin- Week, to Homecoming, Pan Hel 
terest, and certainly student apa- formal to CFP, Greek Sing, Spring 
thy, the fraternity system and j rush, and the grand finale of 
campus leaders at Pitt asked, > Spring Carnival, spiced with Fri- 
“Why Spring Carnival? ’ May I day night cultural societies, hours 
pose the same question to you, fel- in Skibo playing bridge, buggy 
low Techites, while there is stillj practice, queen campaigns, and of 
time to “back out.*’—Why Spring course Saturday night blasts. 
Carnival? Why do we feel it is it’s school spirit you say—and 
so important, ask yourself this j the disinterested at Pitt shows that 
honest, straight forward question, j they are really only a “commuter 
»•- you now labor over your Home- j school” after all. But facts deny
Announcing the 
’59-60 Thistle
coming display, or practice a Var- 
sily Varieties skit, and then drag 
yourself to an 8:30 class and quiz, 
totally unprepared. What good do
this, as the nnumber of students 
at Pitt that stay at Schenley Hall 
increases every year, and almost 
as large a percentage of students
you derive from this method of j commute a} Tech as at Pitt, but 
time-filling activity? Ask your- j that isn’t the point of this letter 
self why you are in this institu- ¿n any case. I maintain that these 
tion. as you try to draft someone i £e]ess “make work” projects at 
to help you make necessary post- Tech are in large part, only for 
er.N I* this the “happy carefree the glory of the old frat, and that 
release from the tensions of school jn truth, most students, teachers, 
work?” As you clean the Midway and the administration would find 
on a wet soggy (everyone knows ? ¿t much more satisfying if we 
that it inveriably rains at Carni- turned our excess energies to more 
val) Sunday morning, or make profitable ends, to a different type 
party decorations on a Friday aft- 0f “school spirit.” So I plead, beg,
ernoon—all “make work” projects, 
ask yourself, where does it lead
and implore you, let’s be honest 
with ourselves—Let’s reconsider 
t<>? i~the “need” of a Spring Carnival!
But 1 need relaxation, you say. j In view of social ostracism, I
Did you attend assembly last j timidly interject a plea that my
week? Were you at the sympo- . name be withheld,
slum, or film graphics? Are you 
a member of Film Arts? Were you , ^
in the line for the student sym- , Editors hote. 
phony tickets? And will you at- I Granted.
c
WRITE
Editor, the Tartan:
The opening of the WRITE 
contest this year once again of­
fers Tech students the opportu­
nity to win $25 prizes for literary 
endeavors. In addition, it offers 
the opportunity to have their ar­
ticles published in the respective 
publications.
While the financial rewards of­
fer a real incentive to enter, the 
pride and prestige of having your 
winning entry printed in a col­
lege publication should not be 
overlooked. Every college student 
should have something published 
at least once in his college career. 
It can be quite an exciting feel­
ing to see a story qr article in 
print with your own name on it.
I Also, it can be a treasured sou- 
1 venir to look back upon after 
I you are out of college, so don’t 
! hesitate to enter any or all of the 
j five divisions. The returns on 
! your investment of a few hours 
I can be well worth the time spent.
Bob Beatty 
I.M. '60
Liturafure And The Arts
These Fragments
By Paulette Richman
She fancies herself Ophelia 
She, of the mad flowers
Yesterday she arose from a garden that is now a battlefield 
And looked in the morror to tell the time I I
One would say she is delicate, almost frail 
as she turns her face upon the looking-glass 
Yet something as mighty as the gong of a clock at the final 
hour
Sounds in her reflection 
She speaks, and when she speaks 
Only the lilacs listen 
Lilacs sprinkled with ashes
of burnt, dried-up souls. *
“All the flowers are gone and I have only these fragments 
. . . fragments . . .
Here is the tree of wasted Life 
that bears hollow fruit.
There are masks which are not mine.
Here in my hand are people shrunk so small ... so small.
Here I give you earth where now there are slums
And there ’neath the tenements men huddled together 
Groping to find in others what they have not within 
themselves.
This is a machine-gun and there a mushroom-cloud.
This is blood which I have gathered from the battlefield 
That’s for remembrance ...
Here is silence . . . which men fear as their own shadows.
I would like to give you lilacs and violets
but the lilacs are covered with ashes 
and the violets have withered all.”. . 4*
Her clenched fists beat against her heart
Doubt trembles on her lips
Fear quivers in her hands
And sorrow, sorrow beats upon her breast
like a hard rain
And she droops earth-ward
Her listeners do not hear
Having been deafened by words'that only they can hear 
Words that fit their own thoughts. Q:<
They sit at tables in polite communion
And gesture the drinking of dry water
And the taking of dainty sandwiches from empty platters. 
They have sacrificed Life to. a hundred, million moments 
and fragments 
And she weaves fantastic garlands with these fragments 
Garlands of yellowed newspaper, bits of brick 
cracked tea-cups and rusted bullet-shells 
that liberal soldiers give a grosser name. {
but our cold maids do dead men’s fingers call them.
And she shall die the unavoidable death
Drowning midst the fragments
Not so fortunate as to be afforded a water-grave.
But perhaps above the rubble 
’neath an olive tree of up-lifted branch 
woven with love and with new creation 
an eventual laurel
with /
“We must be patient:
I hope all will be well
But I cannot choose but weep
to think they should lay the world in the
cold, dank ground.”
Paulette Richman is a freshman drama student and is 
majoring in acting. She lives, when she is not at Tech, in 
New York City.
Contributions to the “Literature and the Arts” coluim. 
whether prose or verse, will be welcome. Manuscripts should 
bent sent to:
Literature and the Arts Box 401 CIT 
All manuscripts will be returned. Editor—Mike Adler
"‘•CARNEGIE
TARTAN,
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone. MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. _____
................................................ Jeremiah D. SullivanKditor .................................................................................. ...............
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, l»c-
I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 14, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
anegr^ .. r><ypM
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Editors..............................................Mary Alice Peterson and Eleanor Iwinski
Shirley Kreidweis —
An Active Nite Student
to Penn Hills High as a teacher 
and guidance counsellor.
Besides working on Student 
Council, Shirley is kept busy as 
recording secretary for Tech Nite 
Newman Club and delegate- to 
the Pittsburgh Intercollegiate 
Federation of Catholic Student
Council Accepts 
New Members
At a meeting of Evening Coun­
cil on Saturday evening, October 
10, seven evening students were 
accepted as new Council mem­
bers. They were Paul Johns, 
George McCracken, Ted Ciesiekki, 
Russell Orme, Robert Makar, 
Jeanne Barr, and Betty Jane 
Reitz. Council looks forward to 
an active and successful year.
Social Events
Plans were discussed for three 
social events in the immediate 
future. The Monto Carlo will be 
held on October 24, at Carnegie 
Union. A buffet dinner dance is 
scheduled for Saturday, Novem­
ber 28, at the Mona Lisa Lounge.
Jim Morrisard is chairman of 
the Annual Evening Students’ 
Banquet which will be held April
Insignia Awards 
Are Presented
In the Fall of each year Eve­
ning Student Council presents 
student workers Insignia Awards 
as tokens of appreciation for their 
continued support of activities 
sponsored by Council.
The awards are in the form of a 
key of red. blue, green, and yellow 
with the letters C.I.T. superim­
posed upon this background. A 
white crescent signifies night 
school and a star represents a
30. The Jacktown Hotel is under 
consideration as the location for 
the banquet.
Eleanor Iwinski was appointed 
Co-Editor of the Plaid. The busi­
ness meeting was followed by an 
informal party to welcome new 
members.
point of merit. The number 25 at 
the bottom of the insignia repre­
sents the year of the founding of 
Council. Students who have 
earned twenty points during the 
previous year are honored by pre­
sentation of the award at the an­
nual banquet.
This year the following stu­
dents were honored on October 
10. Victor Sabol and Mary Alice 
Peterson received their seventh 
awards. A fourth award was pre­
sented to Harry Thorn. Ronald 
Craig, Andrew Oravetz, and Dan 
Smyers received third awards.
Marlene Zappa, George Mc­
Cracken, Charles Wolf, Don Mor­
in and John Jenkins were recip­
ients of second awards. Among 
those to receive their first awards 
for extracurricular activities were 
Dennis De Stefano, Jancy Span- 
nuth, Shirley Kreidwise, and 
Jim Morrisard.
Organizations—P.I.F.C.S.O. She 
also keeps night students informed 
of Newman Club activities 
through the “Plaid”.
Shirley is employed as a page 
at the Fifth Avenue office of Pitts­
burgh National Bank there she is 
also a member of the Social Club.DUAL FILTER DOESIT!
Lambda Omega Rho
Filters as no single filter can
for mild, full flavor!
Here's how the Dual Filter does it:
1. It combines a unique inner fitter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL...defi; 
nitely proved to make the smoke of a cigarette mild and smooth ..,
2. with an efficient pure white outer filter. Together they bring you the 
real thing in mildness and fine tobacco taste!
NEW DUAL FILTER
Nite Council Plans
Among the few girls found on 
TVsch night campus is Shirley 
l*eidwise, social co-chairman of 
Evening Student Council. She can 
be easily recognized for she has 
a pleasing personality and a 
friendly smile for everyone.
A graduate of Penn Hills High 
School—class of 1956, Shirley is 
presently studying voice and 
speech here at Tech although her 
main interest lies in secondary 
education and psychology. Her
wioin ic fn enino DS4 r£>fnrn
Monte Carlo Party
Plans are now being completed 
for Monte Carlo, a social function 
sponsored by Evening Student 
Council to be held at Carnegie 
Union Saturday, October 24, at 
8:00 p.m. Tickets are available 
through any Evening Student 
Council member and are being 
sold for $ .75. Everyone is wel­
come to attend.
Tickets will also be available 
at Mr. McKelway’s office and at
fhA rlAAr
Some fraternities get athletes. Some get 
brains. This fraternity gets virtually everybody,
Including women. It has fanatically loyal 
members in more than 100 countries around 
the world. It has no pin and its only ritual is 
the simple act of enjoying Coca-Cola every 
single day of the year.
Its name? L O R—Lovers of Refreshment.
Join up today.
SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under outhority of The Coco-Cdc Company by
QI'AKtR STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
KU Centra) A**. 1-7011

---------------------------------------------------

P*5« «—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday. October 14. 1959
Tech Record Hop 
In Thistle Hàll 
Every Friday Ni te
With the approval of the ad­
ministration, a new feature is be­
ing added to the general social 
activities at Tech. Beginning 
next Friday, October 23, there 
will be weekly record hops locat­
ed in Thistle Hail.
These hops will feature a taste­
ful selection of transcribed music. 
The hops will be held every Fri­
day night when school is in ses­
sion, from 8:30 to 12:00 p.m. Ad­
mission is $.25 per person and re­
freshments will be available 
through the services of A Phi O. 
Open to the campus at large, 
stag or drag, these hops show 
promise of fulfilling a need that 
has been Jong evident on this 
campus.
Modern—
[continued from page 2] 
these similarities between science 
and art. This is not true, how­
ever; the two are inseparably 
bound in the total pattern of our 
culture. The classical age of rea­
son, the 18th century can pro­
duce a Mozart. Picasso’s work re­
flects the thinking of Einstein just 
as Mazort’s work was colored by 
Newton’s whether or not there 
was an awareness of the influ­
ence. Of course, there are always 
those who appear out of touch 
with their times; Matthias Grüne­
wald, Meister Eckhart, Leonardo 
DaVinci; these are exceptions. 
Existentialism and quantum the­
ory, Arnold Schoenberg and the 
atom bomb, Mondiaan and Max 
Planck, each can only be under­
stood against a background of the 
others.
The narrowing gap between the 
scientist and artist could not have 
appeared on the stage of man’s 
history at a better time. The sci­
entist’s researches have, against 
his wishes, produced the means of 
destroying all life on this planet. 
If the artist, the great communi­
cator (*? man, can present the 
horrors of destruction and the 
glories of man’s creations to the 
peoples of the world in a form 
they can comprehend, perhaps 
they can learn to live together, 
rather than die together.
University Travel 
Service
Domestic or Foreign Points
Arrangements made for 
Individuals or Groups to
Charters for Special 
Events also Available 
MA. 1-3500 x 7205-6 
MA. 1-5915 
In Bldg. E, Schenley Apts.
WEBSTER'S 
NEW 1W0RIDI DICTIONARY
of the American language, College Editiof) 
more entries (142,000) 
more examples of usage 
more idiomatic expressions 
more and fuller etymologies 
more and fuller synonymies 
most up-to-date 
Available at yovr college »tor*
THI WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Cleveland and New York
Debating—
[continued from page I] 
Home Tournaments
Tech will be host 4;o teams 
from Western Pennsylvania on 
November 14, when the Debating 
Union sponsors a novice tourna­
ment at Morgaret Morrison. On 
March 5, the annual Carnegie Tar­
tan Debate will be held.
Schedule
The schedule thus far is as fol­
lows: October 24, Grove City
novice); October 31, Hamilton 
College (novice); October 31, 
Grove City (varsity); November
14, Carnegie Tech; November 21, 
Duquesne; December 5, NYU; De­
cember 13, Pitt; February 27, 
West Virginia, and March 5, Car­
negie Tech.
Members of the Debating Union 
are John Berg, Keith Springer, 
Lann Malesky, Nick Machiarolo, 
Bob Boehm, Gil McGurl, Tom 
Hogshead, Marilyn Miller, Carlos 
Taylor, Chris Hardy, Clint An­
glin, Nancy Noble and Judy Free­
man.
A debating team usually con­
sists of two speakers for the af­
firmative and two for the nega­
tive.
I see a brilliant 
future for you..!’
?
To carry out this prediction and 9ee 
you through college into the graduate 
world—Arrow recommends the sturdy 
good looks of Basketweave oxford 
cloth. This 1 uxurious “Sanforized” 
fabric promises perfect fit, lasting 
comfort. Carefully tailored with the 
flattering, arched buttondown collar.
$5.00.
-ARROW-
Each Saturday tee the NCAA football “Game of the 
Week—NBC TV—«pontored by ARROW.
. But Americas 
most famous 
lady does it!
No Paris design of ’59 is 
more lovely than this 
ageless beauty, a gift 
from France 75 years 
ago. Miss Liberty has 
welcomed millions to 
these shores with the 
words, “Give me your 
tired, your poor, your 
huddled masses yearn­
ing to breathe free... I 
lift my lamp beside 
the golden door.” t
.ButliM does it!
When you’re in New 
York, be sure to make 
the trip over to see Miss 
Liberty. And wherever 
you are right now, en­
joy the cigarette that’s 
kindest to your taste.
That’s DM: Low in tar, 
with more taste to it. No 
wonder more americans 
switch to KM every day! 
Live Modem... switch 
to L*M!
Live Modem with 1IM

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 14, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
Carnegie Tartan
Tech To Face
Grove City
At Homecoming
IM Football
Enters Third
Week of Play
Cross Country Runners Lose 
To Co vies; Defeat Waynesburg
Slippery Rock, with three top runners back from last 
year, will be in Schenley Park tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. for a 
meet with Tech.
The top three, Shirey, Moony, and Meddick, will be out 
to start a new string of consecutive victories. Their loss to 
West Virginia two weeks ago ended a string of 15 straight. 
This is an important meet for Tech, who will be out to avenge 
last year’s 24-33 defeat on the Rockets’ course.
Last Thursday the harriers ran* ~
7-0 Victory Over Thiel Keeps Tech 
Boys Undefeated For Homecoming
Once again the Carnegie Tartans struck paydirt in the first quarter and hung on until 
the final gun gave them victory. For the third time this season the statistics were very 
nearly even in all departments except scoring.
Carnegie opened'up its attack even more than last week, frequently using fullback 
and halfback flankers to either or both sides. Tech’s own inconsistency and several penal­
ties in key situations were more effective in st opping their attack than was the Thiel defense. 
s^Senior tailback John Zinni only* ~
into a good Geneva squad on a 
rainy day. Jim Wilson, Ken 
Meeker, and Joe Melross of the 
Covies swept three of the first 
four places for a 25-32 victory.
Bruce Dobras and Glenn Klepac 
had good times for Tech, but were 
not backed up well by their team­
mates. Bill Anderson and Bill 
Sproul have been particularly dis­
appointing early in the season,
while George Caldwell and Steve 
Strasep are injured.
Against Waynesburg on October 
5, the harriers ran to an 18-34 
triumph. Bruce Dobras, Pat Cha- 
may, and Glenn Klepac finished 
in a three-way tie for first in 29 
minutes, 48 seconds.
Bill Sproul was fifth in 32:43, 
and George Caldwell seventh in 
34:07.
saw action on offense during the 
first half, which left most of the 
ball carrying to fullback Curt 
Burrell. It was an effective com­
bination of his running and 
Muth’s passes to Poad which 
brought Tech its score. Muth car­
ried over from the one, and 
Schlegel added his fourth straight 
point after.
Soggy Field 
t%ieavy rains had left the field 
in a soggy condition, which ham­
pered both te'ams in certain situ­
ations. During the last three quar­
ters there were good plays on the 
part of each team, though neither 
threatened until Thiel began a 
inarch late in the fourth quarter 
and had the clock run out.
Carnegie was primarily on the 
defensive in the second half, and 
the defensive unit should be rec- 
^hized for the job they did in
containing Thiers attack. Gary 
Yarbrough and Muth made many 
jarring tackles, and Burrell 
knocked a pass right out of the 
hands of a Tfiiel receiver deep in 
Tech territory.
Carnegie, wno seems to be 
counting heavily on her luck this 
year, will be going into the home­
coming game with an unblemished 
record. The opponent, Grove City, 
has been beaten the last two 
weekends by conference foes, so 
they will be hungry for victory at 
Forbes Field.
Tech should be at full strength 
for the first time this year, with 
both Zinni and Dale Stewart 
ready for duty. If the Tartans 
continue their trend toward a 
more varied attack, the game 
should give the home crowd a 
more colorful contest than they 
have seen here recently as well
as bringing the Plaid their fourth 
straight triumph.
Intramural
Highlites
At the first meetings of the IM 
Board and IM Managers Club, 
elections of officers were held. 
Both set of elections were presid­
ed over by facility supervisor, Mr. 
Eugene Boyer.
Board officers are Phil Wick- 
lander, president, Jerry Drew, 
viee president, and John Scango, 
secretary-treasurer. Other mem­
bers on the board are Bill Hall, 
Jim Linduff, Chuck Vodvarka. 
Don Humes, Lynn Adams, Phil 
Hodge, and one member at large 
who has not yet selected.
Everybody Meets Under The Clock 
at The BILTMOR E in New York
SPECIAL. RATES
for Students (B.M.O.C.s, L.M.O.C.s,
C.O.E.D.s) Single $8.00 
Twin: $6.25 (per person)
Triple: $5.25 (per person)
For Information or reservations address:College Department, The Biltmore.Madison Ave. »t 43rd St., New York 17. N.Y.•r use this handy coupon
College Oep’tq The BiHmore, New York 17, N. Y. 
Wease reserve the following accommodations
(date and timo)(rate)
(name).
(address)
Realty Hotels. Inc., Harry M. An/iolt. President
Salem • amazing now 
HIGH POROSITY paper 
"oir-softens" every puff.
each putt to give you • toner,
ovan mora flovorful »"»ok*-
An important break-through in Salem's 
research laboratories brings you this special new High Porosity paper which 
breathes new freshness into the flavor.Each puff on a Salem draws just enough
Created by B. J. Beyneld* Tob»c« Cmpsnj
fresh air in through the paper to make the smoke taste even softer, fresher, more flavorful. If you’ve enjoyed Salem’s spring­time freshness before, you’ll be even more 
pleased now. Smoke refreshed, smoke Salem!
NOW MORE THAN EVER
• menthol fresh o rich tobacco taste o modern fitter, too
Salem refreshes your taste

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday. October 14. 195»
, WELCOME ; 
• STUDENTS »
11 Teams Remain Unbeaten 
In IM Football This Week
Delayed only by a slight case of Pittsburgh weather, IM football passed through its 
second week with 11 of the 23 squads still undefeated.
Beta Theta Pi moved past the idle Met Grads into first place in the Steeler League 
with a 9-7 victory over Beta Sigma Rho. Woody Clark passed for the Betas only TD. The 
fine running of Mike Aaron and Joe Oldfield provided the extra points. Roger Simon gets 
credit for the Beta Sig’s TD. ?-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------——¦---------  
Beta Sigma Rho was on the los­
ing end of the only other game in 
the league, bowing 17-0 to SAE 
“Gold.” The SAE defense stymied 
the Beta Sig’s while Chuck Nelson 
led the Gold with his running and 
passing. Eddie Correll looked good 
at end for SAE.
Giants
The Giant League is now in a 
three way tie, SAE “Purple,” 
DTD, and PKA having two vic­
tories each. PKA had a good 
workout with Tau Delta Phi “R.” 
winning 37-7. Bill Hall played a 
fine game at quarterback.
Delta Tau Delta had a little 
more trouble than the PiKA’s de­
feating Obelisk 19-7. Tom Toma- 
sek starred in the Delt attack 
which was often cramped by a 
hard running Obelisk line. Don 
Humes found the Delt defensive 
backfield a better target for passes 
than his own ends. Interceptions 
stopped the Obelisk offensive.
Eagles
GSIA picked up an easy 35-5 
victory over the SAE “Lions” and 
gained a tie with ATO “A” for 
first place in the Eagle League.
In other action DU bowed twice 
to its opponents after piling up 
half time leads. Tau Delta Phi 
“A” downed the DU’s 27-15 after 
trailing 10-7 at the half and Cit- 
com turned a first half 8-10 score 
into a 21-18 victory. Tau Delt’s 
Carl Katz completed four TD 
passes, three of them to Steve 
Rothenberg to lead the attack. 
Citcom relied heavily on the run­
ning and fine passing of Bob Beitle 
in defeating the DU’s. In both 
games DU used their multi-lateral 
offense which gives everyone on 
the team a chance to touch the 
ball at least once a play.
Bears
Most second week play was cen­
tered in the lopsided Bear League. 
Sigma Nu looked like the league 
favorite in twin victories over TX 
and ATO “B.” Theta Xi rushed 
hard, particularly in the second 
half, but couldn’t get an offensive 
rolling in the 18-7 contest. Sigma 
Nu found little competition in 
ATO “B” and coasted to a 34-3 
finish in their second killing. The 
SN offense is made up of good 
pass receivers and poses a double 
threat to defensive backfields.
Kappa Sigma also made a twin 
killing at the expense of Metals 
Club and ATO “B.” Behind the 
fine passing of John Elliott, KS 
rolled to a 17-6 victory over MC 
and defeated ATO “B” 14-1.Phi Kappa Theta, the third team in a tie for first place, beat MC 14-2. Phil Wicklander intercepted
6 Swingline Stapler no bigger than a pack of gum!
98«(Including 
1000 staple*#
SWINGLINE “TOr*l 
Millions now in use. Uncondi­tionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Avail­able at your college bookstore.
SWINGLINC 
•Cvb" StapUr J1
two passes and led the offense in 
the PKT win.
Next week’s games should pro­
duce some upsets since none of 
the leading teams play each other.
Possible upsets to watchforin-
elude TX over KS andCitcom
over GSIA.*
Steeler LeagueWL
Beta Theta Pi.....................?,0
Met Grads ............................10
SAE “Gold” ............................10
Newman Club .....................02
Beta Sigma Rho................02
Giant LeaguewL
SAE “Purple” .......................?.0
DTD ............................................20
PKA ...........................................?,0
Obelisk .....................................o2
Clyde St.....................................02
Tau Delta Phi “R”..............02
Eagle LeaguewL
ATO “A” ...............................0
.... 20
Tau Delta Phi “A”____1
1
SAE “Lions” .................2
DU .....................................__02
Bear LeagueWL
KS ....................................0
SN........................................____20
0
TX .....................................__02
ATO “E”..........................__ 02
Metals Club .........__02
Congress¦
[continued from page 2] 1 
not be brought over until the 
steel strike is ended.
Finances
Dr. Strick was asked to report 
on the Congress finances. He 
pointed out the sources of income 
available to campus organizations. 
A certain amount, $13,115.00, was 
allot-ated by Congress; three thou­
sand dollars is available for 
matched advertising; and Con­
gress also has a reserve of $11,- 
600.
A motion was passed to approve 
the party held by the Lutheran 
Students Association after the 
homecoming dance.
The next Student Congress 
meeting is Wednesday, October 
21, 1959, 100 Porter Hall at 4:30 
p.m.
Speedtypist To Be 
At MMCC Today
Franklin H. Dye, renowned 
speed typing expert and business 
educator, will demonstrate how a 
person can type, easily and ac­
curately, 140 words per minute on 
Wednesday, October 14 at ** 1 
p.m. when he’ll appear at Mar­
garet Morrison Carnegie College.
He holds the degrees of Master 
of Education and Bachelor of Sci­
ence from Boston University. Be­
sides typing, he has taught other 
business education courses at Med­
ford High School in Massachusetts, 
Honolulu Business College in 
Hawaii, Colby Junior College in 
New Hampshire, as well as at ' i 
almo mater.
Enter the 
WRITE 
Contest
CAMPUS CLEANERS
? 2 Hour Shirt Laundry
? 1 Hour Dry Cleaning Service
? Rough Dry Laundry
ALTERATIONS - TAILORING - REPAIRING
4609 FORBES AYE. (near Craig St.) • 
MUseum 1-1288
INC.
tona •^CAR Citv. new NR^EG AI Ho
To Candidates for Baccalaureate and Advanced Degrees 
in the Engineering and Scientific Disciplines
MITRE
ITOc
Incites }fou Oo Investigate Ohe 0Broad Opportunities 
Inherent In £arge-Scale System ‘Engineering
MITRE, a systems engineering and development organization, has the continuing 
responsibility for solving the complex problems involved in the design, development; 
evaluation and integration of the many and varied air defense systems.
Formed under the sponsorship of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology'with a 
staff nucleus composed of the scientists who designed and developed the SAG6 
System, MITRE affords individuals accelerated professional growth in a multi- 
disciplined environment. There exists freedom of choice in assignments ranging from 
system design through prototype development to advanced operations research.
We invite you to discuss with us how your academic training can be effectively 
utilized in one of these stimulating areas:
•
\
SYSTEM DESIGNOWEAPONS SYSTEM INTEGRATION
•COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT•HUMAN ENGINEERING
•REAL-TIME COMPUTER CONTROL SYSTEMS•COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
•RADAR TECHNIQUES•ELECTRONIC WARFARE
•OPERATIONS ANALYSIS•INTEGRATED SYSTEM EVALUATION
The above openings are available at MITRE’s modern facilities in suburban Boston, 
Massachusetts - Fort Walton Beach, Florida-and Montgomery, Alabama.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Wednesday, October 28
Please contact your Placement Director for appointment
THE MITRE CORPORATION
244 Wood Street — Lexington 73, Massachusetts 
A brochure more fully describing WTRE and its activities is available on request^
