Senior Ball 
Friday, April 15 
Thistle Hall 
Casa Loma Orchestra 
9:00-2:00 $4.00
Senate Elections 
Tuesday, April 19 
Petitions Due 
Today 
Senate Presidents Only
VOL. XXVI, No. 25,CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 1932.
1932 SENATE ELECTION TO 
BE HELD SOON
Four Colleges Will Choose 
Respective Heads 
of Senates
ELECTION ON APRIL 19
Regular Class Elections to 
Take Place Tuesday, 
May 3
Each of the four colleges, Mar­
garet Morrison, Arts, Engineering, 
and Industry, elects a president of 
its respective Senate. The president 
of each of these Senates bccomcs a 
Student Council member.
Tlic elections o.f the officers of the 
Senate for 1932 will he held Tues­
day, April 19. These elections must 
not be confused with the regular class 
elections. .
One of these new members of 
Studqht Council is selected by the 
outgoing council as its president. The 
sectary of the Student Council 
gciected by the outgoing council is 
one of three junior secretaries who 
arc at present non-voting members 
of the council. The treasurer of 'the 
Student Council selected by the out­
going council is one of three junior 
treasurers who arc voting members 
of council at present.
However, these junior treasurers 
are the treasurers of the respective 
junior classes and senates and are 
elected in the regular class elections.
The only officers to be elected 
in the election April 19 arc the four 
presidents of the senates. Petitions 
for these offices are due in the Y 
jffice this afternoon at 4 o’clock.
¡Seriously 
Speaking
A. COLUMN OF CURIOUS COMMENT 
UY NATHAN MILLER
Coming-of-Age
We call your attention to a num­
ber of occurrences within recent 
months which may betoken a 
change of spirit, a healthy resur­
gence of curiosity in the student 
bodies of large universities.
The excursion of a body of stu­
dents into the feudal fastnesses of 
southern Kentucky to investigate, 
presumably, the terrible', plight 
which the coal miners there find 
themselves in, was one instance of 
'this coming-of-agc. And the 
stone wall they struck in the mobs 
which threatened them with vio­
lence and a warmer reception than 
they might have counted on, taught 
many a callow youth among them 
a lfcsson in applied democracy and 
government. The struggle for civil 
liberties ceased perhaps to have 
that abstract, historical cast which 
class-rooms endowed it with, and 
came to take on a vivid reality.
Superficially, the mentally Sloth­
ful will ascribe this junket to un­
controlled youths who insisted on 
“minding other people’s business. 
But nothing, as a matter of fact, 
can ever be more pertinent to the 
“business" of students than the in­
vestigation of the society in which 
they live and which they are bound 
to take over soon. There are a 
legion of signs that all is not well 
in certain departments of contem­
porary economic and political life 
in America. Why not get down 
to laboratory work "and search out 
the principles upon which this ma­
chinery operates? That is the sort 
hi teahnique followed in the natur­
al sciences with avowedly spdendid 
results.
Then we should also mention the 
mock-c'onventions and disarmament 
meets at various colleges which 
affairs arc very often much more 
realistic and purposeful than the 
real gatherings themselves, wheth­
er these latter be in Geneva or 
Chicago. The old diplomatic ras­
cals arc so thoroughly bound by 
tradition, nationalism and selfish in­
terests that very little can be ex­
pected to come of t'licir national 
and international gatherings. But 
students may be able to effect a rc- 
proachmcnt between peoples and a 
direct frontal attack upon our dis­
graceful economic incptncss, sitn- 
plv because they have not vet been 
too thoroughly spoiled by “prac­
tical” participation in industry, 
business or the professions.
The gauchcrie and the blatant, 
infantile, “collegiate” structure is 
still tliqre, of course, what with its 
football fraternities and functions. 
But there are hopeful straws in the 
wind, these days, my mates.
Beta Sigma Rho Heads Fraternities, 
Alpha Kappa Psi, Sororities, In First 
Semester 1931-32 Scholarship Ratings
Boss Hall Again Highest 
Men’s Dormitory; 
McGill Second
The Beta Sigma Rho fraternity 
again heads the list of fraternity 
scholarship ratings for the first 
semester of 1931-32,' with an aver­
age of 4.02, according to an an­
nouncement issued by Dean Tar- 
bell, secretary of the Committee 
on Scholarships, Grants and Prizes. 
The Phi Kappa fraternity^ ranks 
second out of the twenty campus 
social fraternities with an average 
of 3.93. A_Jpha Sigma Phi, Phi 
Sigma Kappa, Pi Kappa Alpha, and 
Theta Xi, in the order named, se­
cured the next four highest aver­
ages.
The ranking is determined by 
the ratio of the total numberi, of 
quality points earned by each 
group to the number of units car­
ried.
Last year Beta, Sigma Rho won 
the fraternity scholarship cup, and 
the year before, this same group 
took permanent possession of a 
similar cup by ranking first for 
three out of .five years. A cup is 
awarded to the highest raiding fra­
ternity, 'men’s dormitory, women’s 
sorority, and women’s dormitory 
at the end of each year. In all 
cases, the group winning the cup 
three years receives permanent 
possession of it.
For the first semester of last 
year, Beta Sigma Rho had an 
average of 3.88. Delta Upsilon 
was second ^witli 3.77, while Pi 
Kappa Alpha, Kappa Delta Rho, 
Beta Theta Pi, and-Phi Kappa were 
third, fourth, fifth and sixth in the 
order named.
At the end of last’ year, Beta 
Sigma Rho stood first with 3.76 
for a yearly average, Delta Upsilon 
second with 3.757, and Pi Kappa 
Alpha, Beta Theta Pi, ICappa Delta 
Rho, and Phi Kappa respectively, 
third, fourth, fifth and sixth.
Boss Hall, as did Beta Sigma 
(Continued on Page Four)
Freshmen To 
Give Dance
Jerry McGeorge’s Band 
Will Play April 22 
For Affair
The freshman class of Margaret 
Morrison will sponsor a dance to 
be held Friday, April 22, in Thistle 
Hall. The dance is to be semi- 
formal, with a tax of $1.25 a cou­
ple. Dancing will begin at 9 
o’clock, Jerry McGeorge and his 
orchestra furnishing the mu^ic.
Although the affair is a project 
of the freshman class, the rest of 
the school is cordially invited to 
attend.
Chaperones for the evening will 
be Dr. and Mrs. Charles Watkins, 
Miss Eleanor Gruver, Miss A. C. 
McBride, Dr. and Mrs. L. H. 
Schultz, and Dr. and Mrs. W. J. 
Stalejr..
Marshic Barr, social chairman oi 
the Margaret Morrison freshman 
class, has appointed the following 
committees: entertainment, Gwen
Haddock, chairman; Lucille Kid- 
well, Margaret Parsons, and Helen 
Welfer; publicity, Veronica Kloos, 
chairman; Gertrude Boric, Anne 
Ladd, and Ruth Gustafson; tickets, 
Catherine Conti, chairman; Ruth 
Schmclz, Agnes Cancelliere, Fran­
ces Hall, Martha Moss, Miriam 
Busch, Mary Duncan, Margaret 
Watters, Mary Lou Lowndes,- and 
Mary Jane Atkinson.
J. Addison Jones 
Presents Recital
J. Addisoft Jones, local pianist, 
will present a recital on Sunday 
evening, April 17, at 8:15 o’clock, 
in the Y. M. & W. H. A. building, 
as a guest of the Musical Society. 
Mr. Jones is the seventh artist to 
be brought by the society this 
year in its fifth annual series.
I-Ic is a native of Washington, 
Pa., having studied as a youth 
with Miss Julia Moss of the Wash­
ington Seminary and Mrs. Rudolf Hanan of Washington. In 1925 
lie studied in Europe with Isidor 
Philipp of Paris. He continued his 
studies in Vienna under the tute­
lage of Emil von Sauer, eminent 
conccrt pianist and teacher. Sauer, 
himself a pupil of Liszt and Ru­
binstein, taught him for four and 
half years before Mr. Jones re­
turned to this country in Decem­
ber. 1930.
Air. Jones’ recital will be fol­
lowed by a recital of the Choral 
Society on Sunday evening, April 
24. The series will - close with a 
chamber music program .in May.
Forbes Tops Co-Ed Dorms; 
Mellon Hall Drops 
to Third Place
Of the four College of Fine Arts 
sororities, Alpha Kappa Psi still 
holds the highest scholastic rating 
at the end of the first semester 
of 1931-32 with an average of 4.45. 
The sororities’ rankings are ex­
actly the same as they were at 
the end of the first semester last 
year, as well as at the end of the 
year with Beta Pi second, Gamma 
Gamma Gamma third, and Beta 
Tau Lambda-fourth.
Forbes Hall has replaced Mellon 
Hall as the highest ranking wom­
en’s dormitory by attaining the 
highest average for the first semes-' 
ter. „ The Forbes Hall average is 
4.09, while Mellon Hall, which had 
an average of 4.24 at the end of 
the first semester last year and 4.23 
for the entire year, dropped to 
third place with a 3.97 average.
Hawthorne Hall is the' second 
highest women’s dormitory with a 
4.05 average. Cedar Iiall is fourth with 3.88.
At -the end of the first semester 
last year, Forbes Hall was second; 
Linden Hall, third, and Cedar Hall, 
(Continued on Page Four)
“Y” Nominates 
New Officers
Committee Plans Annual 
Outing in Clarion 
County
At a Y. M. C. A. Cabinet meet­
ing last Tuesday- the Nominating 
committee announced the nomina­
tion of the following members for 
next year’s cabinet officers: Presi­
dent, John W. Ladd and Ira Kuhn; 
vice president, John Sayles and 
Boyd Dennison; secretary, Richard Blair and Richard Jones.
The two nominees for secretary 
arc members of Freshman Cabinet. 
The winning candidate wifi auto­
matically become a member of the 
general , cabinet along with two or 
three other members of the fresh­
man and sophomore class who will 
be chosen to fill the vacancies left 
by the graduating cabinet members.
Owing to the fact that the Wel­
fare Drive replaced the Member­
ship Campaign this year, post card 
ballot? will ' be mailed only to the 
Committee Management and the 
freshman and general cabinet mem­
bers. They must be returned to 
the “Y” office' by April 19.
A committee of three faculty 
members, Professors Guild, ICirk- 
Patrick, arid Risedorph, and three 
cabinet members, Messers Horning, 
Kuhn, and Ladd, is making plans 
for the annual outing to Cook’s 
.Woods in Clarion Count}'-; The 
general cabinet and Executive com­
mittee will leave Friday, May 6, 
and return Sunday, May 8. As 
has been the custom in the past, 
the installation of the newly elected 
officers and cabinet members will 
be a part- of the trip.
KAPPA SIGMA 
IS WINNER IN 
SING CONTEST
Silver Cup is Presented to 
Team At Dance in 
Thistle Hall
SING A SUCCESS
Delta Tau Delta, Sigma Nu, 
Beta Theta Pi Gain 
Mention
The Kappa-Sigma fraternity won 
first placc in the Inter-Fraternity 
Sing Contest sponsored by the 
Dragon Society in the Gymnasium 
April 1. Delta Tau Delta received 
first honorable mention, and Sigma 
Nu and Beta' Theta Pi placed third 
and ’fourth respectively.
The decision of the contest was 
given by the judges Dean Green, 
Dean Keeble, M. Frey, K. A. Mal- 
clierek, and J. V. O’Brien. They 
presented the winning teain with a 
large silver cup during the dance 
in Thistle Hall following the com­petition.
Ten fraternities entered the sing 
The list of the contesting fraterni­
ties in order of their appearance 
is:. Beta Theta Pi, Delta Upsilon, 
Delta Tau Delta, Phi Kappa Psi, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, 
Pi Kappa Alpha, Theta Xi, Kappa 
Sigma and Phi Kappa.
Each group was limited to be­
tween eight and sixteen members 
arid was allowed six minutes to 
present its songs.
Approximately 140 couples at­
tended the sing. The affair wjis 
such , a success that it will pro 
ably be held /next year durii 
C a SeeniorB ek.
Placque Submitted 
By Theta Tau
Tlieta Tau, national engineering 
fraternity, has submitted the placque 
on which is to be engraved the 
name of the outstanding engineer 
of each year’s- graduating class to 
Dr. Baker and Director Mott for 
faculty approval. It will then be 
decided how to proceed in. electing 
the high engineer of the class of
1932. The placque will probably 
be hung in Administration Hall.
On the evening of April 21, at 
7:30 in Room 209 Engineering Hall, 
Theta Tau will present sound films. 
The date of this open meeting was 
previously scheduled for April 14 
but has been extended. These pic­
tures arc made possible through 
.the courtesy of the Bell Telephone 
Company and will deal with en­
gineering topics in the telephone 
industry. Because of the obsoletc- 
ncss^of silent films, Theta Tau has 
been undertaking for some time to 
secure the sound pictures. It is 
hoped that they will be as suc­
cessful on the Carnegie campus as 
they have been in other schools.
All prospective sophomore and 
junior members of Theta Tau --will 
be invited. • This will be the first 
opportunity for the fraternity to 
become acquainted with the pros­
pects from the sophomore class.
On Thursday, April ' 14, at 7:30 
in Professor Daniel’s office,/there 
will be a regular meeting of Theta 
Tau.
Council Approves
Special Elections
Frank Minet, 'Drama stu­
dent and member of Pi Kap­
pa Alpha social fraternity, 
was clcctcd president of the 
freshman class of the College 
of Fine Arts, while Robert 
Robinson, junior Mechanical 
and member of Delta Upsilon, 
was elected treasurer of .the 
Engineering Senate. Both 
elections were held to fill va­
cancies.
At the last meeting of the 
Student Council, Jield March 
22, these elections were ap­
proved, and the. Fine Arts 
night students’ petition for 
the change of their dance 
from April 9 to April 16 was 
accepted.
Plebes Visit 
Laboratories
Make Survey of Depts. to 
Help in Course 
Selection
During the last two weeks su­
pervised group visits have been 
made by the engineering freshmen 
to all departments in the engineer­
ing schools with the purpose' of 
helping the students make decisions 
as to which courses they wish to 
follow. The tours were so ar­
ranged that freshmen could see 
laboratories in operation £nd have 
the benefit of the instructors’ ex­
planations.
In the Mechanical Engineering 
Department they saw various test­
ers and power machines as well as 
the wind tunnel. The electrical 
laboratories with their motors, 
generators, radios and complex 
wiring followed. Both heat and 
sound laboratories of the Physics, 
Department were in the itinerary; 
here interesting demonstrations of 
the “electric eye” and' harmonic 
sound producer were given.
In the Civil Engineering Depart­
ment the miniature dam and the 
machines for testing materials were 
examined; the nearby Metallurgists 
gave a furnace demonstration. 
'Other points of interest included 
the Departments of Chemistry and 
Mines, the Coal Research Labora­
tory, and the shops.
Professor Leeds’ talk on the 
(Continued on Page Four)
Students Will Be 
Rotarian’s Guests
Students from Carnegie, Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, Duqucsne Uni­
versity, and Pennsylvania College 
for Women whose fathers are Ro- 
tarians will be guests at the reg­
ular weekly luncheon of the Rotary 
Club of Pittsburgh in the Fort 
Pitt Hotel Wednesday, April 20, 
at noon.
The event is an annual affair 
and was attended by 75 students 
last year. It is expected that stu­
dents will have some part in the 
program.
Those who plan to attend are 
asked to report at the Rotary of­
fice, mezzanine floor, Fort Pitt 
Hotel, at 12 o’clock.
ALL SCHOOLS 
TO TAKE PART 
IN EXHIBITION
Date is Friday, April 29; 
R. O. T. C. Will 
Parade
KILTIES TO PLAY
Arrange Special Features 
For Prospective 
Students
Innovations will heighten the in­
terest this year in the Annual Ex­
hibition Night which has been 
scheduled for Friday, April 29. In 
addition to programs tó suit popu­
lar fancy, special features are being 
arranged for high school studerits 
of the vicinity to help them decide 
upon the nature of their collcgc 
training after graduation. This 
will take place from 2:30 to 5 
o’clock in the afternoon.
The evening program will begin 
at 7 o’clock when the' R. 0.< T. C. 
accompanied by the Kiltie Band 
gives its picturesque retreat parade 
on the Cut. At 7:30 p. m. all 
buildings will be open to visitors.
Various departments are plan­
ning special exhibits, and several 
honoraries are taking charge of 
displays. The Little Theater will 
be the scene of activities of the 
Music and Drama Departments. 
In addition to features which will 
be announced later, the mine below 
Engineering Hall, as well «-as the 
Industrial and Graphic Arts Ex­
hibits are expected to be points 
of interest.
This exhibition, always popular 
with Pittsburghers, in the past has 
attracted crowds estirnated at from 
ten to twenty thousand.
Nearly every department in the 
College of Engineering and Indus­
tries is planning special feature ex­
hibits, to be conducted bv day and 
night students. In the College of 
Fine Arts the various departments 
will present plays, music recitals 
and exhibitions of student work. 
In the Margaret Morrison College 
the department of Costume Eco­
nomics' will give its annual exhibit 
of hats, gowns, coats and children’s 
clothing. The swimming team will 
give aimeet in the swimming pool, 
while the Kiltie Band \yill enter­
tain tjie crowds at a concert in the 
gymnasium.
Henry Biagini Will Direct 
Famous Casa Loma Band 
At Senior Ball Fri. Night
Campus Views 
On Sale At “Y”
Colored Pictures to Sell For 
Fifty Cents a Set
M. M. Freshmen 
Entertain Today
This afternoon, from 3:30 to 5 
o’clock, the freshmen from Mar­
garet Morrison will entertain the 
freshman girls from Art School at 
a frolic to be held in the Margaret 
Morrison Recreation Hall. The 
entire program has not as yet been 
announced, but several games arc 
going to be played.
The chairman of the frolic is 
Margaret Barr who is social chair­
man of the freshman class of Mar­
garet Morrison. She has appointed 
the following committees: Enter­
tainment, Helen Stiebel, Imogene 
Patterson, Jane Welty, and Jane 
McMillan; refreshments, Marcella 
Withum, Mary Lou Batty, Lois 
Murphy, and Betty Booth.
FRATERNITY RUSHING SYSTEMS AT OTHER SCHOOLS
(EDITOR’S NOTE: Recently the 
Tartan conducted a survey of the 
different fraternity rushing systems in 
use at various universities in the coun­
try in- an effort to aid the Inierfra- 
ternity Council in formulating plans 
for an ideal rushing system at Car­
negie. Below is presented the first of 
two installments of exerpts taken 
from some of the returns of the 
survey).
Bucknell University
At Bucknell University, rushing 
week extends from a Saturday morn­
ing at S:30 early in October until 
the following Friday at 4:00 in the 
afternoon. A period of silence ex­
tends from 4:00 p. m. until 6:00 p. 
m. on this last day of rushing, and 
after 6:00 the freshmen present them­
selves at the fraternities of their 
choice. Bids may be issued artytimp 
during rushing week. Freshmen arc 
not permitted to be in the company 
of fraternity men outside of the col­
lcgc town cither preceding or during 
rushing week. For infractions of any 
of the rushing rules, the guilty fra­
ternity must forfeit $50.00, which is 
posted with a senior council.
University of California
Rushing at the University of Cali­
fornia is governed only by one. rule 
to the effect that no fraternity shall 
engage in rushing during the' hours 
of the Students’ Orientation Pro-, 
gram. This regulation applies only to 
fraternities. The sororities are sub­
ject to numerous regulations. It is 
¦felt that while fraternity rushing
without more specific rules and regu­
lations gives rise to certain evils, 
the imposition of further measures 
would result in the existence of more 
evils than.. exist under the present 
rule.
University of Illinois
The rushing system which governs 
the rushing activities of nearly eighty 
fraternities at the University of 
Illinois has passed through an ex­
perimental period of five years and 
today it' continues, with minor varia­
tions, as a permanent system. Rush­
ing officially is done during a week 
preceding the opening of school in 
order to enable freshmen to become 
settled in fraternities before classes 
begin. Pledging may take place any 
time after twelve, o’clock of the 
fourth day of the rushing period. 
According to the present regulations, 
no rusliec may be the guest of any 
fraternity before September 14.
Rushing dates at the University of 
Illinois are governed by a system of 
three cards, one for the fraternities
having dates with the freshman, one 
for the General Rushing Committee 
of the Interfratemity Council, and 
one for the freshman. Each days of 
the rushing week is divided into four 
periods, the first from 11:00 a. m. 
to 2:00 p. m., the second, from 2:00 
p. m. to 5:00 p. rri„ the third from 
5:00 p. m. to 8:00 p. m., and the 
fourth from 8:00 p. m. through the 
rest of the evening. This last period 
is known as the theater date, and 
after its termination, the rushee must 
remain at the fraternity until his next 
date or he must return to his tem­
porary room, provided it is not at 
a fraternity house. No rushcc is al­
lowed to have more than one date 
a day with the same fraternity, and 
no fraternity may interview a rushee 
at any time during another fratern­
ity’s date without the consent of the 
rushing chairman.of that fraternity. 
Rushecs ai;e required to keep all dates 
during the first three days and there­
after until they arc pledged.
Penalities for infraction of rush-
School
Bucknell. University___1University of California , University of. Illinois _~_. University of Kansas — Kansas State UniversityLehigh University _____University of Maine
DeformiRushing._ No _ No _ No _ No - No No No
DeferredPledging
YesNoYesYesYesNYesYes
YçsYes
YesNewNOTE: Deferred Rushing, is interpreted as. meaning rushing confined to ^ 
period which comes a month or more after classes .begin. Deferred Pledging means that pledging cannot take place until after a 00113111 time either during . or after the rushing period. (?) means that no statement was given.
ing rules at the University of Illinois 
extend from the loss of one social 
function to the denial bi pledging 
privileges for one semester. A 
rushee who breaks rushing rules is 
not 'permitted to pledge to a fra­
ternity for one semester. '
A feature inaugurated last year at 
this school provided that each fra­
ternity fill out a blank concerning its 
house bill, which covered the> ap­
proximate monthly charge and stated 
the separate items of room, board, 
etc. This report, which also included 
the ' initiation fee, was filed at the 
Dean of Men’s office and was avail­
able to each incoming freshman, so 
that he can compare the . cost of 
living at the various fraternities.
University of Kansas 
The University of Kansas has a 
rushing period which extends for 
three days—Friday, Saturday, and 
Sunday. No rushee may be pledged 
before ten o’clock Sunday evening, 
and no rushee is allowed in any fra­
ternity house between August 15 an 
the first day of the rushing period. 
Immediately upon arriving at school; 
all rushees must register with the 
Pan-Hellenic Committee at the Dean 
or Men’s office, after which they 
will receive letters containing rush­
ing rule instructions. All fraternities 
are responsible for the appearance of 
each rushee at their houses at the 
time of expiration of all rushing 
dates, providing the fraternity having 
the next date sends a member for the 
rushee within one-half hour after the 
(Continued on Page Four)
A limited number of sets 
of colored views of the cam­
pus, which appeared in the 
1931 Thistle, are now on 
sale at the “Y” office. The 
sets, each containing eight 
views, size 55^"x8", may be 
obtained-for 50 ccnts.
A number of critics have 
expressed the opinion that 
the views are the best which 
have ever been published. 
The color work has been 
done by a special engraving 
process and lends a distinc­
tive tone to them. The offer 
is an exceptional one in view 
of the fact that photographs 
of this .same size and quality 
usually sell for 25 ccnts each.
The complete -set includes 
the following views: Front of 
Administration Hall, Engi­
neering Hall, Machinery Hall, 
M. M. C. C., College of Fine 
Arts, lower entrance to In­
dustries Building, the Open 
Air Theater, and the walk 
leading from M. M. C. C. to 
the College of Fiije Arts.
Drama Dept. 
Selects Play
‘Merchant of Venice” to 
Be Given April 23 
to May 5
As the annual Shakespearean pro­
duction,. the Department of Drama 
will present the “Merchant of Ven­
ice,” opening Saturday evening, 
April 23, and continuing for two 
weeks through Thursday, May 5, 
in the Little Theater. It is being 
given under the direction of B. 
Iden Payne, visiting, professor of 
drama. On the twenty-fifth of 
April, the Art Society of Pitts­
burgh will attend the evening 
performance, and the Rotary-Anns 
will sec the performance on the 
twenty-sixth. The Drama League 
is expected to attend on the fifth 
of May.
Shakespearean scholars assuming 
that Shakespeare wrote two plays 
a year, believe that "Richard II” 
and tlie “Merchant of Venice” first 
appeared in. 1596. There are many 
conflicting views as to the possible 
origin of the plot. Some think it 
may have been inspired by the 
machinations of the.. Jew poisoner, 
Roderigo Lopez. The various stor­
ies included in the play may also 
have been based upon~ common 
themes of folk tales and Italian 
novel. . Also, Shakespeare may 
have had before him a play called 
(Continued on Page Four)
Girls’ Glee Club 
Plans Concerts
The Women’s Glee Club of Car­
negie is planning a series of concerts 
to be held in April and early in 
May. The concerts are scheduled as 
follows:
April 12, at Mt. Lebanon Presbyterian Church, 8:15.
April 15, at Sheraden Women’s Club. 3:30. April 18, at Dutjuesne Presbyterian Church, 8:15.
April 22, at Beechview Christian Church, 8:15.
April 28, at St. Paul’s Evangelical Church, 8:15.
May 5, at Mt. Lebanon Baptist Church, 8:15.The Women’s Glee Club has en­
joyed one of the most successful 
years of its history during the past 
winter. At the end of the concert 
season, in May, the Glee Club will 
have given a dozen concerts, exclud­
ing the Home Concert, which was 
held last Friday in the Little 
Theater. Among those concerts which 
have already been held were those 
given at the Sarah Heinz House on 
North Side, the Marine Hospital, and 
the Carnegie Methodist Episcopal 
Church, as well as the radio broad­
cast given in March.
To the Managers of the Or­ganizations Under Student Council:You arc requested to turn in 
your complete recommenda­tions for activities keys to Mary Helen Stephany at the “Y” office. If you wish to receive these keys before school is out the order must be in no later than April 22*
Formal Dance Will Be 
Held in Thistle Hall 
From 9 to 2
Affair Open To En­
tire Student Body
Students May Secure 
Tickets At “Y” 
Office
Arrangements have been practical­
ly completed for the Senior Ball 
which will be held in Thistle Hall, 
Friday evening from 9 until 2, the 
committee in charge announced to­
day. This year’s Ball is presented by the Class of 1932.
The famous Jean Goldkctte’s Casa 
Loma Band, with Henry Biagini di­
recting, has been engaged for the. 
occasion. This twelve-piece Columbia 
Broadcasting orchestra has been a 
feature at such recent affairs as the 
West Point Military Ball and the 
Western Reserve Inter-Fraternity 
Ball. His orchestra is soon to be 
featured at the Roscland Ballroom, 
New York City, from which its pro­
gram will be broadcast five times 
weekly. Other engagements have in­
cluded Washington and Lee College 
functions, the Pitt Ball for the West 
Point Cadets last fall, and the De­troit Jay Hop.
In addition to the attractive new 
bandstand now in Thistle Hall, cer­
tain other improvements will be made 
in an attempt to make Thistle Hall 
more attractive. .Drapes will be hung 
to ¦ improve both the uppearance • and 
the acoustics of the Hall. It is also 
probable that new lights will be in­stalled.
Tickets are on sale at the “Y" 
office, or they may be obtained from 
any member of the committee or 
from any Dragon. The tax is $4, 
representing a cut of $1 from the 
price of last year’s tickets. Under­
classmen are eligible to attend as 
well as Seniors.
The committee in charge consists of 
members of the senior classes rep­
resenting the four colleges. The presi- 
j dents of the classes in the respective 
colleges are: Jane Elizabeth Croylc, 
M. M. C. C. in chargc of invitations 
to patrons and patronesses; Harvey 
A. Collins, College of Industries, 
chairman of the committee and in 
chargc of the programs; Willard C. 
Holloway, College of Engineering, in 
charge of tickets; and Samuel K. 
Wilson, Colle'ge of Fine Arts, in 
charge of publicity.
The program favors have .been de­
signed by a student in the College of Fine Arts.
Patrons and patronesses are to be: 
Dr. Thomas G. Baker, Dean Mary 
Watson Green, Dean and Mrs. A. 
W. Tarbcll, Dean Glendinning Keeble, 
and Dr. and Mrs. Charles Watkins, 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hower, Mr. and 
Mrs. t.Walter B. Grcss, and Mr. and 
Mrs. Lawrence Shaffer. Chaperones in­
clude Dr. and Mrs. Work, Mr. and 
Mrs. Lang, Mr. and Mrs. Risedorph, 
Mr. and Mrs. Miller, Mr. and Mrs. 
Davis, Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Readio, 
Mr. and Mrs. Leighou, Miss Hazel 
Knight and Miss Edith Winchester.
Exhibition Invitations
Students and faculty members^ 
who wish to have invitations to 
the Annual Exhibition sent to 
friends are asked to leave -their 
requests with W. N. James in the 
News Bureau in Administration 
Hall, next to the Night School . Office.
Coming Events
TUESDAY, APRIL 12
Women’s Glee Club Concert, Mt 
Lebanon Presbyterian Church, 8:15. 
Petitions due for senate elections. 
Intra-mural wrestling, Gym 5-6.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13 
Mid-semester grades*.
Intra-mural wrestling, Gym 5-6.
THURSDAY, APRIL 14 
Intra-mural wrestling, Gym 5-6. 
Intra-mural soft ball meeting, 
Trophy Room, 4:30.
FRIDAY, APRIL 15 
Combined Senior Ball, Thistle 
Hall, 9-2.
Women’s Glee .Club Conccrt, 
Sheraden Women's Club, 3:30. 
Intra-mural wrestling, Gym 5-6.
SATURDAY, APRIL 16 
Carnegie Tech-P. A. A. varsity 
track meet at the Bowl, 2:30 p. m.
* Grades in some departments 
come out Thursday.

---------------------------------------------------

TTTE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE TWO'TUESDAY, APRIL' 12, 1932.
Inter-Collogo Basketball, Wodnos- 
day Night, Tartan Gym. 
Intramural Wrostling Tournament 
Every Aftornoon in Gym.
Varsity Track Team Opens 
With P. A. A. in Skibo Bowl 
Saturday Afternoon.
Intramural Wrestlers To Tangle
In Tournament This Afternoon
SOFTBALL PLAY 
TO BEGIN SOON
Representatives to Meet 
Thursday At 4:30
Soon the open spaces between 
Linden and Laurel halls will re­
sound to the crack of wood against 
leather as the mushball season gets 
into pace. Last year saw 25 en­
tries take the field, but according 
to all indications, this year’s num­
ber will'be elose to 30 or over. 
Any organization is eligible to en­
ter a team, whether it be frater­
nity, dormitory, honorary, or class..
There will be a meeting Thurs­
day at 4:30, in the Trophy Room, 
of all representatives. At this, 
time, all entries are due and must 
be turned in to Coach Riscdorph. 
Absolutely no late entries will be 
considered, due to the difficulty of 
rearranging the schedule. Not over 
18 men can be entered by any 
team, and all must .be registered 
day students.
There will be three diamonds 
this year, and thus it will be pos­
sible to run off all games at the 
same time and avoid double head­
ers. All games will be called at 
5:20, with a ten-minute allowance 
for forfeiture.
Another phase which must be 
remembered this year is the fact 
that there will be no postpone­
ment of games. Each /game is 
scheduled for a certain date and if 
one . or both teams do. not show 
up within the allotted ten minutes, 
one or both must forfeit their 
right, to further contests.
Last year Welch Hall captured 
the. Cup after a tough battle with 
many closely contested teams, and 
the fight can be expected to be 
very close this year.
Tom Coulter Leads Veteran 
Squad in Inaugural 
Contest
JOE MICHAELSON
AS THE ESSENCE OF SPRING PERMEATES our con­
stitution it is only human nature, as we read from poetic lines, 
that our thoughts should wander, and in tnis case we’re not 
limited to the little things in life when we wonder about Coach 
Guy Halferty’s prospects for the coming track season.
While the campus celebrities mope around in light colored 
suits, our more serious athletes have donned the spiked shoes 
with all the gusto that accompanies pre-season work. Their 
efforts have been rewarded with a farily well-rounded, team 
which will give its initial performance against the. P. A. A. 
team in the Tartan Bowl next Saturday afternoon.
The track sport is also graced with the over supply of 
captains that dominates Skibo teams. Tom Coulter holds the 
official captaincy for this year’s squad. He is supported by 
ex-captains, Ray Barger and Ralph Merten, each of whom, have 
led Plaid track teams. Cross-country contributes their captains, 
both past and present, in Price and Ramsay, while the gridiron 
is represented by Captain Armentrout.: * * * *
ENGLEBRECHT’S TOSSERS will finally .nail the cover 
on Intramural basketball competition for this year when they 
meet the Pitt representatives with hammer and tongs tomor­
row night. The Kappa Sig’s will feature in the'preliminary 
game for the inter-collegiate runner-up position.
No matter who wins, these games with the Pitt boys they 
always turn out to have something more than mere basketball 
connected with them. After winning the Tartan title last year 
Welcli Hall defeated the Pitt winners in the play off. ^ This 
same group, of players has migrated to the rafters of- Engle- 
brecht Hall where they have not only gained athletic prestige 
but become the pride and joy of Miss Helm’s dormitpries. They 
also boast of the most active chapter of Rho Dammit Rht>.* * * *
! WHAT. MIGHT BE CALLED true Greek wrestling is on 
the books, or rather on the mat, for this week. Festivities will 
begin this afternoon and terminate with the finals on Friday 
afternoon.
No doubt, many new holds will be discovered, and tried out 
with more or less success. Some will be reaching for the moon, 
while others will give a more or less accurate portrayal of a 
man who is prone to scratch his nose on the floor.
* * He *
JUST IN. CASE IT SLIPPED .your attention we must 
jboint out the minute margin which determined the winner of 
the annual Intramural swimming meet held a few weeks ago. 
Emerging with the same number of points, the Dclts won the 
meet in- taking one more first place than the Kappa Sigs.'
* >h * >K \
SOFTBALL MATTERS OF IMPORTANCE will be thor- 
dughly re-hashed at the meeting on Thursday. About the same 
rules arc expected to prevail as were present last year. In its 
first season of existence this sport drew the entries of twenty- 
live teams, bringing over 200 students into action. Welch Hall 
again took the fraternities for a ride, winning the softball 
championship after a tough battle.
Three diamonds will be available along the Forbes Street 
Ibt. All games will be called at 5:f20 p. m.* > * *
NEW STARS upon which the SkibcJ trackers can hitch 
their wagons have already appeared(fin the foron of record 
breaking performances for this season. Ben Eastman, of Stan­
ford University, lowered the world mark in the d40 yard and 
half mile events.
This Saturday,, Captain Tom Coul­
ter will lead his promising band of 
Carnegie track and field men against 
the Pittsburgh, Athletic Association 
representatives, in the perrenial open­
ing meet. This all-important prac­
tice contest has inaugurated Tartan 
track seasons for years past and 
serves to give Coach Guy Halferty 
a line' on the material at hand.
As usual, the versitile Coulter will 
specialize in the high and low 
hurdles; running the 440 and broad- 
jumping only when ncccssary. Tom 
holds the school records in each of 
the hurdle' races as well as the quar­
ter mile. Artie Sigmund' and Jack 
Croissant will handle the dashes this 
year, Artie's specialty, however, is 
the broadjump, an event in which he 
is almost ccrtain to lower the existing 
school mark. Ewing, Carr and 
"Dutch" Brewer arc preparing for 
the 440.
Harrier Stars On Team
Bobbie Schcll and Mitchell, two 
cross-country boys, and Hutchison of 
last year’s team, will be entered in 
the half-mile run. Shorry Allen, 
sophomore star, should make a great 
running mate for “General" Grant 
Ramsay in the mile. Ramsay is cap- 
tain-elcct of the cross-country, team. 
Jess Pricc, veteran distance man, and 
Bill Burns,.¡mother harrier letter man, 
will compete in the two-r.iijc run. 
Ralph Merten is back at his old post 
in the high jump and will have Long, 
Loya and Brewer as understudies in 
this event. Merten also pole-vaults 
and broad jumps. Ray Barger, who 
was handicapped by injuries most of 
last season is swiftly rounding into 
his championship form of two' years 
ago.
Weight Men Promising
Carnegie should be almost as strong 
in the weight events as they were 
last season although the loss of 
'Karcis, and Seyboth will be keenly 
tc.lt. Murray. Armentrout, along with 
Johrnly Sales a sophomore, will throw 
the hammer. Bill Blaine, Carl Fors- 
mau and “Army" will propel the 
shot and Stciitz and Forsnian arc 
.entered in the discus throw! Stcntz 
Mild John. Ford have, assumed the 
duties of javelin tosscrs.
The team as a whole is exception­
ally well-balanced with the half-mile 
run as the only untried event. Great 
thiiiga are. expected of the track team 
this year and it will not bo sur* 
'prising if a few of the old rccords 
go by the boards ’cr the season has 
closed.
k0PERflT|NC alFdyn,Ap15 
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY0
 ARTISTS and 
ILLUSTRATORS
POST-SUN Buildinq 
PITTSBURGH 
Phon«S:GRant 1654- or 1655
The Kappa Sig’s gained the right 
to the runner-up position last week 
when they defeated the Senior Archi­
tects, 24 to 12. 'Neither team was at 
mid-season form, and for this reason 
it is hoped that next year’s com­
petition will begin at an earlier date.
Any attempt at a prediction of the 
outcome of tomorrow night’s games
Strong Skibo Tennis 
Squad Begins Work
'THE OAKLAND 
BANK”With the finest array of ma­
terial that Carnegie Tech has seen 
in many years, Coach B. P. Hoo­
ver is looking forward to a banner 
tennis, season. Only .one lctler- 
man was lost through graduation 
last year, and in addition there 
arc four likely prospects from last 
season’s undefeated Plcbc , team.
Among the varsity stars who arc 
back in the fold arc Ducgcr, Gos­
ling, Groves, Gerghanc and Fergus. 
From the Plcbcs conic f-Iartig, 
Corshcnhauscr, Lowes and Miller.
An attractive schedule has been 
arranged, including , an eastern trip 
during the middle of May. Johns 
Hopkins at Baltimore and George­
town at Washington will be the 
schools visited.
The squad has been working out 
for the past two weeks in the gym, 
and it is hoped that they will be 
out on the courts within a few 
days now.
The Plcbc tfcarri also has some 
promising prospects, ¦And another 
successful Freshman season is an­
ticipated.
Last year the varsity won five 
and lost only to Pitt and George­
town, two of the strongest college 
teams in the country. Both these 
schools will be met again this sea­
son.
OFFICERS
C. B. AYLESWORTH___Vice Prc«.
R. J. MILLER___________Vlcc Prc*.
C. W. EHNI-Asst. Vlcc Pré«.
F. W. COTTON_Asst. Vice Prc.
O. C. YOUNG_________Asst. Treas.
ADAM ROSCOE---------------Asst. See.Peoples* 
IFMsibwgh 
ïrnst Co.
Tables For LadiesAlways Open5C CABIN GRILL 5BOARD OF ADVISERS
C. B. Aylesvrorth 
J nines B. Clark 
John Dlmling
Wm. E. Benswanger 
J. Roger* Flannery
L. H. Gcthoefer 
C. H. Kerr
J. O. Miller 
R. J. Miller
John G. Pew
A. B. Sheets
TAKE SOME ALONG 
— SANDWICHES — 
HAMBURGER, CHEESE, FRIED HAM 
LIVERWURSTOakland Branch
Forbes & Meyran
DELICIOUS HOME MADE PIES 
Pure Orange Juice Pilsner on Draught
______________Root Beer on Draught______________
Pastries Cookies
Hot Chocolate Coffee With Pure Cream
AND OTHER ITEMS
(2) Convenient Stores (2) 
974 LibertyAve. 3712 Forbes St.
(DOWNTOWN) (OAKLAND)
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
CURRENT SPORT 
SCHEDULES
Varnlty Track
April in—P. A. A., hero.April 211—Western Rosorvo, then*.April 110-—Clnotnnatl. thorc.
INTuy 7 W. .fc .1.. hero.
Mny Jl-Genevn. there. .
Muy 17—Pitt, thorn.Mny 21—Tomple, here.Muy 20—Grovo City, /here.
Plcbc Track
April 10—Ponbotly High, hero.April 23—Union lllith-Turtlo Creek, , then April 27—Sehunlcy High, here.April 30— State Teachers College
Clarion, Fn.. hero.Mny -1ThAstAH there.Mny 10—Shady Side Aendemy, there. 
Mny 17—Pitt, there.
Varsity Tennis
April 27—Duqueane, there.
April 00—Grove City, there.Mny 2—W. & .T., there.Mny 4—DuqueBiie, here.
Mny 7-r-Alumni, here.Muy 9—Pitt,. there.Mny 11—Grove City, here.
Mny I t—Temple,, here.Mny 16—Pitt. here.Mny 20—Georgetown, there.Mny 21—Johns Hopkins, there.
Mny 23—W. & J., here.
Plebc Tennis
April 19—Mt. Lebanon High, there. April 22—Kiski, there.April 27—Duqueane, here.April 29—Shndy Side, here.Mny 2—W. & J., here.Mny -I—Duquesne, there.Muy 0—Mt. Lebanon, here.Mny 9—Pitt, here.Mny 11—Shndy Side, there.Mny 13—Kiski, here.Mny 10—Pitt, there.
Mny 23—W. & J., there.
Rifle
The final match of the A931-32 
rifle, season for the Women's- Rillo 
Team was shot' last week with the Uni­
versity of Hawaii, Louisiana State 
University, and the University of
Wyoming. The following five high 
scores were turned in by the members 
of the team:
Lilley ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................99
Voegtly - -  — 98
Brooks —ti—__________97
Wclty   ___.....J________97 ’
.' Schatz ....—......................... 96
Carnegie Tech's rifle team is now 
awaiting returns on tile most im­
portant muiehiis 'of the year, in the 
past few weeks the Skibo team has 
fired several matches of national and 
sectional scope, including the Mcarst 
Trophy match, the S. R. M. A. match, 
two stages of the National Inter­
collegiate match, and a shoot-'off for 
sectional championship agaiilst Cin­
cinnati University. These matches 
have brought the Plaid shooters into 
competition with colleges throughout 
the country, the I-Icarst match alone 
having an enrollment of over. 450.,
The 1932 I-Icarst Trophy team rep­
resenting Carnegie shot a score of 
92S points out of a possible 1,000. 
This, record betters the 1931, score 
by nearly ten points, which should 
give this year’s team a chance of 
bettering the third place won the 
previous year. A second- team from 
Carnegie bettered the last year’s sec­
ond team score by more than twenty 
points which should place this* team 
about tenth.
Results of the sectional telegraphic 
meets show' Carnegie tied with Cin­
cinnati for first plat:. In the shoot- 
ofi ordered by the- N. R. A. Carnegie 
turned in a 1,390 score, which should 
give the local team a good chance 
of defeating the strong westerners. 
Cincinnati recently won the national 
shoulder to shoulder title.
Two of the four stages compris­
ing the National Intcr-collcgiate 
match were c’omplctcd last week with 
a total score for the two stages 
slightly above last year’s. This match 
will he finished this week and will 
officially! close the rifle season.
The Skibo sharpshooters have good 
possibilities of turning in the most 
successful season in history. The 
high ranking of the Plaid team is 
largely due to the consistent shooting 
of Beckcrt, Scherba( and Painter.
The season was as a whole very 
successful, and the girls deserve much 
crcdit for their good work. 1 The 
prospects for next year seem very 
bright as Voegtly, Wclty, Kidwcll, 
Schatz, Roberts; and Lowry wilt be 
back. Lilley and Brooks arc the only 
two seniors on the team.
Every year a beginners’ cup is. 
awarded to the winner of the Be­
ginners’ Match. Jane Wclty is the 
one who will receive the trophy for 
this season. She has maintained a 
very good average throughout the 
year and placed first in the Begin­
ners’ Match. Good luck next year too, 
Jane.
The Pitt Shoulder - to - Shoulder 
Match held Saturday, April 2, in the 
Carnegie Range was won by the 
Carnegie Women's Team by a scorc 
of 975 to 958. Ruth Brooks was 
high girl with two scores of 100.
Swim Party
The Swim Party held by the. W. 
A. A. in the Carnegie Pool Saturday 
night, April 2, was quite successful. 
Everyone had a good time, and many 
requests for another such party in the 
near future were made by the -people 
who attended. Norland Johnson and 
Jeannette Fogcl, two of Pittsburgh's 
aquatic stars, performed to the de­
light of everyone. As this is the 
first time that this kind oi ,a swim 
party has ever been held at Car­
negie, we arc all glad that it was 
¦enjoyed by all. Here's to bigger and 
better swim parties in the future.
NOTICE
All Crew Membcrs, Supervisors, 
Tcnm Cnptains. and Student subscrlp- tlon salespeople who wish to nvnll thonisolvoB ot tho opportunity for free 
Qoholnrahip mado possiblc through the enurteay of the Leadlng Mngazino Pub* IlBhor’H ugnln thia yenr nro requsted to npply to tho nntlonnl orgnnlror. M. Anthony Stelle. Jr., Box 244, San Junn, 
Porto Rico, stating qunllficntions fülly.
Montrose 5174 Cnthorlno KergtUon. Pnp.
LUCILLE BEAUTY 
PARLORS
Specialists in All Lines of 
Beauty Culture 
Permanent Waving $2.95
Expert Operator*.
No Appointment" Necessary.
MALE BARBER
5931 Penn Avc., Cor. Whitfield St. East Liberty
Marcelling \
Hair Bobbing J 
Finger Wave / nrf
Shampoo \ a L ^
Hair Cuts ( / I*
Eyes Arching \
Hair Rinses ) Each
Manicuring /
Red Cross Life Saving
Chesterfield Radio Program
MON. & THUR. IUES. & FRI. WED. & SAT.
BosWELl AtEX RUTH 
CSLemOL pOdc 955A,p
10;30p.'m.E.S.T. 10:3pp.m.E.S.T, lOp.m.E.S.T.- 
SHIIKRET'5 ORCHESTRA every night but Sundoy 
NORMAN BROKENSHIRE, Announcer 
COlUMBIAiNEIWQRK©'193Z,:IrGGETT'&'MYERSTOBACCO'C0*

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 1932.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE NIGHT STUDENTS.
Well, there you are, April fool— 
foolish number—and there I was 
. left out of the picture for gnce. I 
am going to fool them, and have 
iny own April fool jokes all to 
myself. So if you see anything 
in print which you do not under, 
stand, you will know that it is an 
April Fool joke for the Idle Night 
Student. Anyhow, I did enjoy 
' reading the foolishness on the 
pages of the Tartan, and am glad 
to give this column up for once 
to such celebrities as appeared last 
issue in column one, article one, 
page three. Hope all of them don’t 
have swelled chests this week.
# * * *
Have you noticed the number of 
dogs which are attending the night 
classes recently? Nearly every stu­
dio you go into has its bull dog, 
police dog, Eskimo dog, or what­
ever dog have you. Does seem 
strange that the instruction given 
at Tech should appeal to the dogs. 
Here I was thinking that we were 
educating ourselves, when all of a 
sudden I see that we are descend­
ing to the level of dogs. Maybe I 
should say, dogs are being ele­
vated to the level of the students. 
A dog is a splendid companion, 
none the better, to have with you, 
but when it comes to bringing 
them into the night classes cither 
we should have more dogs to take 
the place of the students, or the 
students should leave to make room 
for the dogs, take it whichever way 
you please. I am for dogs in the 
dog’s place, but doggone it, Tech 
night school is no place for the 
dogs.* * * *
Noticed a splendid exhibition on 
display in the exhibition room jn 
the, College of Fine Arts. The ex­
hibition will be open' for a few 
day/v yet and all the night students 
.who' possibly can should visit the 
•display. Yes, J was in, and en­
joyed the sketches immensely. 
Hope you do if yoU go, which you 
should'do by all ^neans.
* * * *
We arc sure well equipped with 
Activities Buildings on the campus. 
You can take your pick; if the Bar 
doesn’t please you, well, maybe the 
revolving ball room in the main 
auditorium will suffice. I am going 
to reserve, the place for my first 
coming out party next year, so 
don’t hold your breath while you 
wait. Some did, and they are now 
in the specially reserved place for 
the silent. They died a slow death 
by smotheration.
* * * *
The Night Engineers’ dance and 
the Night Industries Smoker arc 
things of the past now and both of 
tiie$i came off in great style. Of 
course, I was at both affairs. Try 
and keep me out if I want to go 
to something- sufficiently. Of 
course,- yo'u know I am in the en­
gineering college, but then when it 
comes to industries, why I simply 
go down a grade or two and 
there you have me—which—* * * *
As I read in the Plaid, the In­
dustries Students’ Rating Declared 
Below College Standard. Must be 
so. Doix't you see their effeminate 
physique,, combined with low schol­
astic standards and their mental in­
feriority all demonstrated in a 
marked degree when you visit one 
oi the shops—Forge Foundry, for 
instance. Why, to be sure, they
don’t rate at all when an engineer 
enters the picture. And here the 
curtain goes down for this week
at least.
Lost
„„At./the. Night School of En­
gineering Dance held at This­
tle Hall, March 19, 1932, a 
black and green Shaeffer 
Pencil with a gold band, tip 
and clip on it. Initials en­
graved R. J. M. The owner 
is anxious to recover the pen­
cil and requests the finder to 
return to Lost and Found 
Department of Industries 
Building. Reward offered.
An Open Letter 
To All Night 
Arts Students
Headquarters,
Yesterday
Dear Contemporaries (Ahem):
Do you know that the Night 
Artists arc about to bring their 
current social season to its inevita­
ble close amid the pleasant sur­
roundings of Thistle Hall this Sat­
urday evening? It’s the lamenta­
ble truth friends, but let us not be 
down-hearted for the gaiety of the 
evening will be assured by the
ever enjoyable music of------ but
let’s keep that as a last minute 
surprise for you.
At this, our last Night College 
of Fine Arts dance, we, the com­
mittee, have resolved to do three 
things for the Night Artists, name­
ly, to make the frolic exclusively 
a Night Arts affair (Engineers and 
Industries please note), to give 
you the mbst pleasant and enjoy­
able evening within our power 
(and budget), and to conduct the 
evening’s entertainment in such a 
Way that you will forget the ten­
sion and strain of the final few 
weeks of struggle to have those 
drawings, paintings, designs or 
what have you, placed in the hall 
of fame.
No doubt by.this time you have 
grasped the idea of what we arc 
trying to hint at, that it’s going 
to be one of those typically color­
ful. Night Arts affairs that has for 
its motto, “On with the dance and 
let joy be unconfincd.” Tickets are 
now available from any committee 
member, so be sure to get ‘ yours 
if you want to assure yourself of 
a good time next Saturday evening.
Very truly yours,
The Committee.
NOTICE TO NICHT 
COLLEGE OF FINE 
ARTS WORKERS
All Night'College of-Fmc Arts 
students who arc interested in se­
curing an insignia award arc asked 
to be present at Thistle Hall on 
Saturday afternoon, April 16, at 
2:30 p. hi., to make all necessary 
preparations for the dance to be 
held that evening. The officers and 
members of the Social Committee 
of this college arc particularly re­
quested to be present.
J. Paul Stevens, 
Chairman, Night Arts Social 
Committee.
Reflections
Last week the Plaid threw away 
its dignity and followed the annual 
custom of dishing up all the dirt 
on the night campus. The motto 
of that . particular issue * was, as 
aptly expressed in the column of 
“Didja Notice," . “malice toward 
none and razzbcrrics for all.” The 
paper was given over entirely to 
far fetched and ludicrous fun and 
spared no one. In doing so it no, 
doubt treaded on the tender toes 
of some of our. famous citizens, 
for sometimes great truths arc 
spoken in jest. However, the Plaid 
wishes to assure everybody that it 
was all intended to be mirth pro­
voking and no affront was meant. 
We sincerely hope that our readers 
accepted the stories in the same 
spirit of whole-hearted fun that 
they were written and say, “All 
is forgiven; come home.”
The issue aroused a great deal 
of comment on the night campus 
and furnished some side lights that 
were even more humorous than the 
original stories. After all, the 
Piaid accomplished its mission of 
giving the student body a let-up in 
this serious business of education 
long enough for us to get a broad 
grin on', our face and emit a gur­
gling sound that someone recogniz­
ed as a laugh, so it was worth all 
the effort and personal . feelings 
that it may have caused.
S.
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening Testimony Meeting: _____________At 8:00 I>. M.
For the Coming Formal
Rent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phone: Residence Phone:
ATLANTIC 9595 EVERGLADE 0918
^Ibe Carnegie flMaifc
NIGHT COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS DANCE THISTLE HALL APRIL 16.
Supplementary Term
During the Supplementary Term, beginning May 9, cour§cs will be offered, as stated on pages 33, 34,-112, and 113 of the 1931-32 catalog of Night Courses; in the College of Engineering and the College of Indus­tries. In the College of Fine Arts one subject, An-502, will be. offered.
Particular attention is called to E-43 and to Cn-127. E-43 Physics III is given only in the Supplementary Term; is given only every third year, and is required for the bachelor’s degree in engineering courses. Cn-127 Elementary English Literature is likewise offered only in the Supplementary Term and only every third year; it is offered for students who wish to secure additional credit in English to apply toward the degree admission' requirements.
All subjects are scheduled May 9 to July 8, inclusive, unless other­wise indicated.
Registration will be held during the week of May 2-6 between 7:00 and 9:00 and on Monday, May 9, between 6:30 and 7:15 in the Registrar’s office. In registering, students should present their- original registration receipt card. Students who withdraw the first week will receive a refund of tuition fee lfcss $2.00; no refunds are ina,dc after the first week. Subjects with less than twelve registrants may be withdrawn.Any student who wishes information or advice concerning his plans, for the supplementary term should call at the Registrar’s office.
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Students following a degree should schedule one of the following subjects, in accordance with information on pages 52-55 and 104-109 of the 1931-32 catalog of Night Courses: C-109, C-110, C-352, C-401, C-402, E-20, E-22, E-43, E-276, or Shops (1-720, 1-740, 1-760, 1-780). F 43. Cn-127 and Shops arc given, only every third ycar^ C-352, E-22 and E-276, in alternate years.
The work of the first term'of C-109, C-110, C-352, C-401, C-402, E-20 and E-22 will be given from May 9 to June 8; that of the second term, from June 8 to July 8. The work of the first term of C-54 will extend from May 9 to June 22; that of the second term, from June 22 to August 5.~ The fees marked * include a $5.00 laboratory deposit or materials fee.
I. First Year Subjects
C-51 Algebra, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 51 ($12.)C-52 Trigonometry, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 52 ($12.)E-176b Gen. Chemistry, rec., 2nd term, M. 7:30-9:45, E. H. 215 ($9.)E-176b Gen. Chemistry, lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. H., 215, 214 ($11.)*
II. Second Year Subjects
C-53b An. Geom. & Calc. I, 2nd term, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H., 205 ($12.)
E-41b Physics I, rec., 2nd term,' M. F., 7:30-9:45, E. H. 209, 212 ($9.)E-41b Physics I, lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. H. 102, 107 ($6.)C-401 Drwg .& Desc. Geom. I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:00-10:30, Ind. 345 ($26.)*
III. Upper Year Subjects
E-20 Mechanics I, both terms, M. W. F.( 7:30-9:30, E. H. 50 ($12.)E-22 Mechanics III, both terms, M. W. 1\, 7:30-9:30,' E. H. 55, ($12.)E-43 Physics III, M. W. F., 7:30-10:30, E. H. 209, 211, 204 ($18.)E-276 Surveying I, M. W. F., 7:30-10:30 and Sat., 1:30-4:30, May 9 to June 11, E. H. 60 ($12.)
C-54 Analytic Geom. & Calc. II both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, May 9 to Aug. 5, E. H. 207 (Ind. 210 after July 8) ($18.)C-402 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:00-10:30, Ind. 3-16 ($26.)*
1-720 Machine Practice, F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 107 ($6.)1-740 Forge, W., 7:30-10:30, Ind. 7 ($6.)1-760 Foundry, Tu., 7:30-10:30, Ind. 23 ($.6.)1-780 Pattcrnmaking, M, 7:30-10:30, Ind. 232 ($6.)
IV. Elective Subjects
C-1Q9 or C-110 English I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind.« 131 A ($12.)
C-352 Economics II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind. 255 A ($12.)
V. Special Subjects
E-574' Fuels, Combustion, and Stokers* Tii.'Th., 7:30-9:30. May 10 to June 9, M. H. 103 ($8.)
Cn-127 Elem. English Literature, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 71 ($12.) (For entrance credit.)
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES
L For Students in Vocational Courses:
For Students who are planning to complete one of-the four-year courses leading to a certificate, the following subjects in mathematics, physics, and mechanical drawing are offered. In each subject the work of the first term will be given from May 9 to June 8; the work of thesecond term, from June 8 to July 8. Students may register for thework of •either tcrfh or for the work of both terms. The tuition feefor the work of both terms in any subject is $12; for the work of oneterm, $6. Each subjcct is scheduled Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 7:30-9:30.
Cn-21 Vocational Mathematics (E. H. 69.)Cn-23 Elementary Algebra (E. H. 70.) -Cn-25 Elementary Trigonometry (Ind. 340 A.)Cn-26 Plane, Geometry A (E. H. 120.)E-99 Vocational Physics (E. H. 111.)In-101 Mechanical Drawing A (Ind. 319.)In-102 Mechanical Drawing B (Ind. 319.)In-103 Mechanical Drawing C (Ind. 319.)II. For students in the General Course;
For each of the following subjects, except Cn-28, the calendar dates, schedule hours, and tuition fees arc the same as those of the subjectslisted above.. Cn-28 will continue for a period of thirteen weeks, May9 to Aug. 5 the work of the first term will be given from May 9 to June 22; that of the second term, from June 22 to August 5. The tuition fee for both terms of Cn-28 is $18; for cither term alone, $9.Cn-29 Plane Geometry A, same as Cn-26, listed above.Cn-127 Elementary English Literature (E. H. 71.)E-97 Elementary Physics A (E. H. 111.)E-98 Elementary Physics B (E. H. 100.)E-97-98 Elementary Physics A-B, 1st term, same as E-97.E-97-98 Elementary Physics, A-B, 2nd term, same as E-98.Cn-28 Algebra B, May 9 to August 5 (Ind. 209.)
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
An-502 Pictorial and Decorative Design II, M. W. F., 67:00-10:00 May 9 to June 10,' inclusive, Arts 302 ($10.)
ROSCOE M. IHRIG,
________________________________ Director of Night Courses.
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND
OFFICERS
PITTSBURGH
RICKARD K. MELLON...
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK...J. KEVIN GARBKK.................
PAUL C. EDMUNDSON.........
—Vice President and Cashier
.......................Aasiatant Cashier
.............Assistai} t Cashlrr-----------------Assistant Cashier
THOMAS S. BAKER 
President Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
JAMES M. BOVARD Moorhead Sc Knox, Attorney»
JOHN G. BOWMAN 
Chancellor University of Pittsburgh
JOHN F. CASEY 
President John F. Casey Co.
ELMER E. COLL 
President National Union Fire 
Insurance Company 
¦ A. REX FLINN 
President Booth Sc Flinn Company
HOWARD M. JOHNSON 
Auditor Ligonier Valley Railroad
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
HERBERT A. MAY 
Vico President^ Union Drawn Steel 
Company 
THOMAS II. MeCANDLESS 
Vico President and Cashier 
RICHARD K. MELLON 
President; Director 
Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD 
Moorhead Sc Knox, Attorneys 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS 
Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE Vice President Wm. B. Scaife 
& Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
Art Student Crashes 
Industries Smoker
If my identity were known, ’my 
life would probably be as useless 
as a four wheel brake on a bi­
cycle, nevertheless, I had to find 
some means of letting the big shots 
of the Night College of Industries 
know that a night Arts student in­
vaded the sanctity of their most 
rcccnt smoker; incognito; of course.
You see, I have always had a 
very definite conception of the lie- 
mannish nature of Industries smok­
ers, and in order to'satisfy a mor­
bid curiosity, I decided to crash 
one of them.
The clement of chance' made my 
attempt at crashing all the more 
adventurous, for even if I had suc­
ceeded in passing the bouncer at 
the door there was the possibility 
of succumbing to my numerous 
shortcomings.
I am. known to be very timid, 
blush madder red on certain oc­
casions, swoon at the sight of 
blood, and above all, cough ter­
ribly without provocation from the 
slightest wliif of cigarette smoke. 
(You see, we let girls do all of our 
smoking in the Arts School.) .
Having succeeded in eluding- the 
husky bouticcrs at the gym door 
by a clever ruse, I was told to 
hold out my hat, whereupon they 
proceeded systematically to fill it 
up with everything from a corncob 
pipe to seven for. five cents cigars.
We had whistles, horns, crickets 
and yodels and everyone seemed 
happy and gay, including myself. 
In fact, I was so overcome with 
the spirit of the occasion. that I 
almost ventured upon a new ex­
perience, that of smoking a cigar­
ette; but a premonition of the em­
barrassing consequences that would 
¡follow my1 first experiment, prompt­
ed me to give up the idea to 
avert suspicion.
Among my souvenirs was a cute 
little 'paper bag partly filled with 
tobacco; while poking around in 
it hoping to find something sweet, 
I spied what to me looked like 
cinnamon bark, and I like cinna­
mon bark. About ten minutes lat­
ter I was revived from a stupor 
to learn that I had been chewing 
some sort of scrap tobacco plug.
They even had talkie pictures 
there for our entertainment; yes, 
we learned all about .Telephones;' 
a narrator on the screen explained 
how they were made, etc etc. Oh, 
it was thrilling.
The ICiltie band was there in all 
its glory, and their music was one 
of the most commendable features 
of the affair.
Several exhibitions of the manly 
art of boxing by aspirants to man­
hood were the high lights of the 
evening. It was evident that the 
ring was far too small, because 
each time the underdog attempted to 
run away from the aggressor, I 
could sec the disgusted expression 
on his face as lie was stopped 
short by the ropes.
A mad dash to the food lines 
terminated events, and I must con­
fess that I felt my dignity slipping, 
for after all, a food line is no 
place to show off one’s polished 
table manners. But then, I guess 
you don’t need table manners to 
eat ham sandwiches, pickles, ice 
cream and milk.
Well, although somewhat disil­
lusioned, I had quite an enjoyable 
time. But let me say now and 
always, that there is nothing like 
a good old night Arts’ dance to 
give me utmost satisfaction, and 
to know that there will be one in 
just a f6w days. Sorry you. can’t 
be there. E.
No Advance In 
Night Tuition 
Fees Next Fall
The Plaid has jukt received no­
tice that the tuition fees for the 
night courses of 1932-33 will not 
be increased, as was originally 
planned.
This announcement from Dr. 
Baker is certainly very welcome 
news coming as it docs when 
everything seems to be working 
against the night "Students..
The original plan regarding the 
tuition fees was to increase them 
in the school term 1932-33 starting 
with the September registration, 
notice of which was printed in the 
catalogue of Night courses in the 
1931-32 issue on page 26. This 
plan has now been abandoned and 
the fees will remain unchanged for 
next year.
The Plaid is certainly happy to 
make tliig announcement and it is 
hoped that the good news will be 
passed along to those former night 
students of your acquaintance who 
do not see the notice, so that they 
can make arrangements for return­
ing next fall at the old rate of 
tuition for the courses.
INTRAMURAL WRESTLERS
(Continued from Page Two) 
three points for a decision. A win 
by default is counted as a decision, 
three points.
SCHEDULE OF BOUTS 
Tuesday, April 12
5 ¡flO it. in.—Dryer, Sigma Alplm Epsilon vs. Hollingsworth, PI Knppn Alpha: lilfi 
pounds cliiss; prelim. ' GUnner drew hye, wrestles winner of above bout for Annin.
5:35 p. m.—Cndmus, Thotri XI vs. Col­lins. Delta Upsllon! MG pounds class, pre­
lim.5:10 p. m.—Kulcsz, Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Walker, Pi ICnppa Alpha \ 1'15 pounds 
class, prelim.5 ¡15 p. m.—Council, Delta Upsllon vs. 
Walter, PI ICnppa Alpha; 155 pounds class, prelim. (1).5:50 p. m.—Nnpler, Signm Alpha Epsilon 
vs. Cohen, McGill Hnll; 155 pounds class, 
prelim. (2).5:55 p. m.—Ewing, Beta Thnla PI vs. Weight, Lninbdu Ohl Alpha! 155 pounds 
olnfis, prelim. (!!)•Winner of bout at 5 MG p. m. drew byo for Anals In 155 pounds class.
Wednesday, April 13
5:110 p. m.—Shann, Delta Upsllon vs. Opperman, Theta XI: 105 pounds olnss, 
prelim.5:35 p. m.—Scherbn, Lambda Chi Alpha 
vs. Mloimelson, Beta Theta PI; 105 pounds 
class, prelim.5:40 p. irv-i-Mosorip, Beta Theta FI vs. Cron, Lambda Chi Alpha; 175 pounds class, prullm. Lentv., Sl^ma Alpha Epsilon, drew bye, wrestles wirinor of i\bove bout 
for fluids.(¡¡'15 p. m,—Winner of bout (2) vs. Winner of bout (3), in 155 pounds class, 
prollm.
Thursday, April 14
5:30 p. m.—135 pounds flnal, Cllnger, Theta XI vs. winner of preliminary bout.
6:40 p. m.—115 pounds final.5:50 p. m.—Unlimited flnal, Tenser, Delta Upsllon vs. Fornman, Theta XI.
Sympathy
The plaid announces the 
rcccnt death of Wallace T. 
Reamen, a student In ' the 
Building Estimating coursc, 
and expresses deep sympathy 
¦ to the members of the Rea­
men family in their loss.
Hotel Schenley Coffee 
Shop & Delicatessen
Specializes in Club Breakfasts, 
Tabic D’Hote Dinners, 
Plate Luncheons.
MODERATE PRICES
Located in Schenley Apts., 
3957 Forbes St.
Your own Club House
to EUROPE!
Tourist and 3 rd Class Become Exclusive! En­
tire sections set aside for you on convc- NEW L0WS 
nienc sailings of Lloyd Express and Cabin Tourist Class 
Liners. Dances, deck sports, masquerades, *84 
jollifications, cozy lounges, comfortable 
staterooms, pleasant decks. The "dues” arc 1 
suited to your own purse. ' OO
ENGLAND • IRELAND • FRANCE • GERMANYNorth German Lloyd
407 Wood Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Telephone Court 3320, or your local agent
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT the last issue , of 
this sheet kicked the lid off 
the scandal pot and gave 
everybody a good giggle.
THAT the Industries again 
did something different by 
having talking movies at their last smoker.
THAT the last Night Art’s 
Hop takes place this Satur­
day evening.
THAT because of the above 
many Industries and Engi­
neering men are transferring 
to the arts school.
THAT an air of expec­
tancy hovers- over the male 
population because of a cer­
tain event that is to take 
place soon.
THAT this struggle for ed­
ucation will be over in slight­
ly more than three weeks.
THAT a certain \ couple 
over in the arts school al­
ways sneak away for a pri­
vate chat about the middle of 
every evening.
THAT some students arc 
already cringing before the 
spectre of "Final Exams.”
THAT that’s that and I’ll be scenyal
Puppet
The repression number of 
the Puppet will be on sale 
All this week during the night 
session. Be sure to get your 
copy. Yes, we mean repres­
sion—pricc and everything. 
The night sales staff have the 
new number now and will be 
, glad to sell you one or sev­
eral copies at the repression 
price.
Friday, April 15
6:30 p. m.—165 pounds final.5:40 p. m.—1U5 pounds flnal.
5:60 p. m.—176 pounds flnal: Lontr., SiffniR Alphat Epsilon vs. wlnnor of pre­liminary bout.
C.S.EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor Street
A
NIGHT ENGINEERS’ 
DANCE SUCCESSFUL
On March 19, the Night College of 
Engineering held the first dance to 
be sponsored by the night engineers. 
The party was substituted for the
second semester smoker which is 
normally held by the collcgc to­
wards the end of the collcgc term.
Several committees had been ap­
pointed to take care of the dancing 
and card playing which had been 
planned for entertainment, and the
members of these committees worked 
in various capacities so that when 
the time arrived, all was in readiness 
for an enjoyable evening.
The turnout for the affair taxed 
the capacity of Thistle Hall, and is 
evidence that the dance was a suc­
cess. No doubt more students would 
have attended had the evening been 
fair, but becausc of the rain, the
attendance was curtailed somewhat.
Congratulations arc in order for
those students who were responsible 
for putting the dance and card party 
over in such good shape. A vote of 
thanks is also due these workers from 
the students registered in night engi­
neering for their efforts expended to' 
supply you with such splendid enter­
tainment. The hope is expressed that 
the dance will become a tradition in 
years to come.
All entries must wcifch in nt 5:16 p. nv. tho day of thdlr match.Wertz, Beta Theta PI, is winner of 115 pounds class, only entry.
Communtsls, Welch Hall, is winner ol 125 pounds class, only entry.
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes Sold and 
Rented
Special Rat»» to Studentt
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
Standard Typewriter Co,
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Phono Atlantic 0342
Supule
The Personal Writing Machina
Keep a Regular
TELEPHONEDate with Home
:de0L e:m iLm of making a team 
winning the election—passing 
a test—if Mother and Dad don’t 
hear of it? Half the fun of college success is 
sharing it with home.
Here’s where the telephone plays its part link­
ing campus and home together!
Make it a habit to call up home each week. 
Mother and Dad will be thrilled to hear your 
voice—to share your news—to know all’s 
well! Each week they’ll be waiting with family 
news, cheery greetings, sound advice.
They’re a lasting pleasure—these Telephone 
Dates with Home—inexpensive and easy to 
make.** *«. 'A
FOR THE LOWEST COST 
AND GREATEST EASE
Set your “date" for after 8,30 P. M., and take ad­
vantage of the low Night Rates. (A dollar call la 
60c at night; a 50c call it, 35c.)
By making a date th$ folks will be at home.Thu« 
you can make a Station to Statlop call rather 
than the more expensive Person to Person call.
Juat give the operator your home telephone num­ber. If you like, charges can be reversed.

---------------------------------------------------

V.KGE FÖtTItTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL' 12, 1932.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2800 
AFTER OFFICE HO UPS CALL
Editor In Chlof...
...Schcnloy 238«
Pnbllnhed onwi «very week during tho collctto yrnr t»r tjndorjrrAdanUtfi of C»rn**l« 
Inni I tu t n of Technology. Enter«! In tho PlttnburKh I'ont OfTlco »« ¦•cond-cl**» m*tu>r
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF------
BUSINESS MANAGER- 
MANAGING EDITOR—
PLAID EDITOR-----------
NEWS EDITOR________
„Harry D. Kolb 
-Edward Steiner 
-Mary Hauser
EXCHANGE EDITOR-
-Edward E. McDonalçl
__________Nancy Sloan
______Gertrude Novak
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vincent McBride Zorclda Maz/.a Assignment Editor_Howard Maxwell
JUNIOR EDITORS
Roy Grant Julius Ilalpern John Gindcr Harry Hower John Ladd
Betty Preller Dolly Allison Ruth Phillips Henrietta Steinberg Christine Leighou Marjorie Dougherty
Alumni Editor____.Mary TownsendCartoonist___________Edna Pearson
BUSINESS STAFF
junior Manager,
Assistant-----------------W. Waldman
CIRCULATION STAFFManager__________-—W. Finglass
A. Prycc-Joncs S. Feldman C. Chadwick J. MicliclsonE. Schlcuskncr 
ATHLETICS
Editor„J. Michaelson
Woman’s Editor—Elizabeth Lilley . . J. Bronson G. MyersAssistants j Lowcs f> Halfcrty
PLAID STAFF
News Editor-----------J. II. Sansonettili. E. McGannon Frank CasselA. N. Evans
REPORTERS
J. Hilt*J. Drury S. Dancoff J. Adams E. Stan key I. Williamson 
A. Henzi J. Carr J. Livingston 
V. Kloos V. Cooper T. ShelleyG. BreakstoneH. Sclnv^rz E. GambleJ. S. Minnotte 
L. Conlin
R. Saxton J. Ritzel E. McCormick G. Rose S. Williams M. Griffin E. Slierman J. Henderson P. Paulus T. Cacchione M. MalakoffA. CarnvalcB. MoreheadC. Mandross B. Cimmuto R. Cohen
A. Ladd
TYPISTS
Sylvia Lyons Ann WardenLucille Jacobs Ann KaufmanMarian McNary
“To an impartial recording of all campus news.” 
ilTo inaugurate and uphold Carnegie traditions .” 
tlTo support all student activities .”
“To specifically work for a student activities build­
ing, better club rooms, and a combined adver­
tising agency for all school publications.
To the Inter fraternity Council
In this issue the TARTAN presents a complete tabula­
tion of results from a survey of the rushing rules at a 
representative number of schools throughout the country. 
This entire survey has been conducted by the TARTAN 
in order to aid the Interfraternity Council in its present 
search for a more workable program at Carnegie. Some 
excellent plans are presented which should adapt themselves 
to this campus as well. Council formed a committee last 
November to study the situation. Surely they- have a 
jrcport by now, which combined with this paper's analysis 
should prove the basis for some action. Let’s make some 
move before next month, when a green council is thrust 
into office to experience this year’s mistakes all over again!
K,* »?< * *
How Old Are You at Twenty-One?
. Your twenty-first birthday, the time when you awaken 
your parents in the middle of the night and announce 
"there is a man in the house", just how old arc you at 
this important date?
.l*rom the viewpoint of the law you arc an infant until 
you become twenty-one, There arc some grown-up infants 
in this world of course, Winners of athletic contests, mu­
sicians, writers, over a million married men, all are in this 
group of infants. Perhaps the majority prefer to use the 
word minor, a more dignified if less exact term. As long 
as most people do not know that minors are infants you are 
practically safe from ridicule.
Computing age purely on the basis of years, any. ques­
tion as to one’s a'ge at twenty-one is apparently foolish. 
There arc, nevertheless, many ways in which a man's age is 
figured other than by chronological data. Time is one of 
the things in the universe about which man can do nothing. 
However, during this period the various factors making up 
a man's real age are not so independent of human control.
Popular saying has it that a man is as old as he feels. 
A senior in college may have lived rather rapidly and con­
sequently feels forty. On the other hand a man of sixty 
might declare that lie is "sixty years young.” Scientists give 
us means of determining an individual's anatomical age, and 
physiological age, as indicated by physical development. 
None of these tests reveal whether the person has devel­
oped aptitudes normal to his age. ,Sonie men remain child­
ish all their lives, others mature long before twenty-one 
and develop a sense of responsibility.
We start life as helpless little bundles, of needs. We 
grow and by twenty-one have gotten over ,our first bald­
ness, gained practically our full height, learned to talk, and 
then the law gives us«the right to stand on our own feet 
and be our own masters. We may vote, sue in our own 
name, make a will, carry a slander case to court, marry 
without1 parents’ consent, and make binding contracts. In 
short the community considers our initiation complete and 
• we become responsible adults.
The magic age of twenty-one is not the only impor­
tant age. There are certain thresholds crossed during the 
•earlier years. Below the age of seven you would not be 
held for murder. Most states-declare the age of fourteen 
to be the limit in holding youth accountable for crime. 
.Your marriage would be binding in many states at eigh­
teen. Nevertheless, Kipling struck the keynote when he 
said to men approaching the age of twenty-one, "You’ll 
be a man, my son!”
This modern world with its countless conflicting cur­
rents of thought and discussion requires more of a man 
than childlike complacency and unquestioned belief. A 
man’s mental age is of more importance to an employer 
than the number of summers he has played in the sun­
shine. Your mind grows fully in capacity by the age of 
eighteen. Experience, education, and training, are all that 
can be counted on to improve your mind from this point. 
It is potentially as intelligent as it ever will be. Yet the 
vital question is not what your I. Q. rating is, for after all 
many persons with splendid showings on the mental tests 
.have been unsuccessful, useless, and unhappy.
Did you ever attempt to determine your emotional age? 
On this basis alone can one determine adult infantilism or 
a youth grown up. A great many.of us arc emotionally 
infantile. We like to smash things. Mob psychology is 
based on our reactions. Given a few drinks we stage rival 
American Legion conventions in our own circle of friends, 
throw bread around the table, and give in to whatever 
childish mischief suggests itself. Many of us are gregari­
ous. Perhaps we cannot enjoy solitude.. We shrink at 
thinking things out for ourselves. Typically American we 
become impressed by bigness and are most happy when 
bragging. Inherently grandstanders, we enjoy shocking 
parents and friends with wild tales, thus evidencing emo­
tional dependence. Moderation in argument is unknown 
to many of us. And in trouble our dependence on others 
really finds us out.
Assuming that it is a good thing to grow up, that de­
velopment of a dependable self brings usefulness and hap-
j Play Review
-c 92$mO hy4cn4
"Grand IIolcl", a play by Vicki 
Baum, is being given in ihc A Ivin 
Theater I his week.
Originally entitled "Mcnschcn itn 
Hotiil”, or "People in a 'Hotel", 
this absorbingly interesting play 
begins by placing us in the lobby 
of say the famous Adlon in Berlin 
Wc observe the cosmopolitan pa­
trons, overhear their conversations, 
note relationships developing, and 
arc sensing the atmosphere which 
makes life in a continental hotel 
a release from the inhibitions of 
home. It trtight in fact be any 
hotel in any large city, granted 
only the circumstances which might 
lead to the convergence of th< 
inner drama that cach guest brings 
with him from the world outside. 
That much of undertow prevents 
the story from being utter melo­
drama, as docs also the charac­
terization of the bookkeeper (ICrin- 
gelein), the German business man 
(Iierr Freysing) and the melan­
choly doctor. The people take on 
reality, perhaps because of the 
swift, sure strokes with which they 
arc etched. It is only when, ir 
the mood of much of the post­
war German fiction, Vicki Baum 
sends the Baron von Gaigc-rn to 
Madame Grusinskaia’s room to 
steal her pearls that the too criti­
cal will complain not only of com- 
monplacc material but also of ; 
sentimentalized and emotionally 
overwrought treatment.
There is, however, not much 
pause given for analysis in a play 
that is dexterously articulated ,in 
sixteen scenes, glamorously actcd 
by a company felicitously chosen 
to type, and directed with a wand 
to evoke the hypnosis of the thea­
ter. The novel of the- play re­
veals no , more enchantment than 
doubtless does the bare manuscript 
of the stage version, so that her.e 
is a piece of triumphant staging.
It is also a rifling of the tech 
niquc of the- motion picture. In 
stead of a conventional structure 
of three acts, there arc such scenes 
as might be caught through the 
lens of a camera, the origins and 
steps in cach dramatic situation, 
As in the pictures, the impression 
is given that all is shown, little 
left'to the imagination. As a rc; 
stilt, the cumulative force . of tlu 
play is notable, despite the break­
ing up of continuity by changes 
of background. The success of 
the method might have been ex­
pected 'to impress the observing 
playwrights of this country, but 
nothing much has resulted. lien 
Bernstein's • “Mclo”, which ran lor 
lnany 1 months in Paris t\Vo years 
ago, is another play of the same 
species as “Grand Hotel”, yet New 
York would have none of it.
But .whether interested in the 
possibilities of Frau Baum’s experi­
ment with a new-old dramatic form 
or not, few' would care to forego 
the pleasant experience of being in 
a Berlin hotel' for an evening and 
eavesdropping in rooms where 
cameo dramas draw together the 
whole hotel family. The grandest 
acting is done by Siegfried Ru- 
mann and Sam JalTe, and this Is 
not to discount the beautiful per­
formances by Eugenic Lcontovich 
and Hortcnse Aldcn.
FROM THE FENCE
unlimited train ride.
Editor Leaves Town—
Almost immediately after the publication of last week’s highly popular April Fool issue the Editor- in-Chicf hastily hunted up his pass and left for an —i:—:*_.i _:.i„ pjc wjfl not return until
things have cooled off a lit­tle. ... In con­nection .with a murder stpry in the abovc-men- tioncd issue Sid Krasik, Miles Kinley, V. Mc­Bride, Harry Kolb and ScottyKarrrasikk issue statements that they "Aint seen nothin’, aint heard nothin’, and don’t know nothin’ ” (that’s no news). . . . ’Like Xmas it’s a good thing that April Fool comes only oncc a year. . . .
* * * *
Glee Clubbing—
Any vodvil sketch would do well to sign up the Glee Club leader as a feature contortionist. Noth­ing like it. . . . Agnes Cancclliere arrived late. . . . No end of trick dresses, at the dance after the sing. . . . Even green stockings. . . .* * * *
What About It?—
The work of the repair crews around school does not seem to be planned at all with respect to classes. A couple of flunkies were even chipping concrctc next to one of the mid semester exams. Surely no fit atmosphere for the concentration de­manded by an exam. ... Is Hell Week worth the cost? ... ’* * * *
Depression Puppet—
The Puppet finally read the writing on the wall and crashcd thru with a fine issue for the price of a thin dime. Nothing could be more appropriate in these times. ... A new cartoonist blossoms forth on the title page. . . . The Puppet adds gos­sip to its columns. ... A novel and appropriate if not beautiful cover., ... A new staff makes its debut soon. Hope they have something good to offer. ...* * * *
Wayne King—
The Anatolc Club presented a highly successful "commercial” dance last week. Who wouldn’t pay three dollars to dance to an orchestra as fine as Wayne King’s. . . . After hearing his radio pro- . grams one gets the i,dea that Wayne King plays only soft, slow music but ’taint so. Oi, can he get hot? . . . Nice singing of some of the old favorites by everyone. Volume on the Carnegie song weak and on Pitt’s and Duquc'siic’s songs very strong.... A one-legged chap dancing on a crutch. Darned well, too. . . . Several Tech gigolas present. . . . More promiscuous public osculating than we’ve seen outside of a nice nite in .Schenley Park. Ah, but music hath charms! . . . The dance was sup­posed to be informal but four out of five were
dressed formally. ... If only Guy Lombardo would come to town the season would be complete, . .* * * *
Eats—
A flock of lads are eating their dinners at a very fine Forbes Street resort. The boarding missus made a great mistake in telling Jalonack, "Just cat all you want.” O’Toole is the lady killer of the crew. . . . The’Kay Dee Rows, for no good, reason, bought themselves a dog. A police dog. They humiliate the animal by giving it the name of Tau. He has been rather dopey since moving in with the boys and they have been trying to cure him by filling him with medicines. They report none of the dog medicines worth drinking. . . . The Theta Ziiis haven’t been doing right by their pet alligator. His ribs arc beginning to show. It is rumored that some of the boys have been sneak­ing food off the alligator's dish. . . .
* ' * * *
Inspection Trips—
It seems that the Mechanicals visited a cork plant recently. They returned with enough corks to keep their favorite speaks supplied for several 
months. . . . The E. E.’s didn’t have much to show for their trip to Sharon. The stenographers and secretaries seemed to be the chief points of in­terest. One carload were considering staying in Sharon. A car breakdown they said. . . .
* * * *
Why Not—
Publish the budgets of the school dances? The students pay in and never have any idea where it all goes. The student council is supposed to approve such budgets but aren’t others interested too? It is done at some schools. . . . Put a fresh coat of paint on the “Two . Scotchmen at Their Soup” on the Carnegie Inn sign. It is a clever sign but quite inconspicuous with its drab weather beaten surface. . . . Pave the few feet of cinder walk between the front porch of Arts School and 
the walk beside the Commons. . . .
* * * *
These Art School People—
Miller & Co., architects, have nothing better to do than loaf around Skibo and pass cracks about people. . . . Betty Farrell, Betty Carlin, Kay Doty and Marg Bateman felt pretty low one day last 
,week so ate their lunch sitting on 
the curb with their feet dan­gling in the gutter. ... With spring coming, young men’s fancies turning, etc., the P and D’s have taken up roller skating. It isn’t safe for a pedestrian to venture in some of the*rooms with everyone zoom­ing hither and yon on their ball bearing outfits. One lad tried to hurdle a chair and ended the con­tortion as a racing dive which removed consider­
able skin. . . .
Carnegie Kate Says:
PLEBES VISIT
(Continued from Page One) 
Works Management Department 
preceded the customary psycholog­
ical test which, is usually given to 
freshmen.
Did you ever pause to think that 
when you look, etc., at a girl’s face 
you arc looking at 90 per cent some 
thing else—lipstick, powder, rouge, 
eye-brow pencil, cyc-shadows, and 
various other make-up layers?
DRAMA DEPARTMENT
(Continued from Page One-) 
“The Jew,” in which motives illus­
trating “the grccdincsse of worldly 
chuscrs and the bloody mindcs of 
usurers” appear to have already 
been conibincd, suggesting the 
well-known character of Shylock. 
Those cast in the production will 
be announced later.
This production will be given in 
the Elizabethan manner. Immedi­
ately following, the Department 
will give Shakespeare’s comedy, 
“The Taming of the Shrew,” in 
modern dress, thus - affording an 
interesting contrast in presentation.
The students of the Department 
of Drama gave the second of a 
scries of Studio Matinees in the 
Union yesterday afternoon ?t 3:30. 
The first of these entertainments 
was held in the Little Theater, 
but in the future it is the inten­
tion to utilize the new. stage in 
the Union, which has been fitted 
up for this purpose, and provides a
second theater on the campus. 
Students will now have an oppor­
tunity to see their fcllow-studcnts 
perform in a number of produc­
tions throughout the year. No 
tickets arc required, and the stu­
dents arc heartily invited to attend.
Upped classmcn in the Depart­
ment of Drama directed the per­
formances yesterday afternoon, 
which consisted of three one-act 
plays and two revues. Miss Dor­
othy Gillespie directed a one-act 
play of stark New England farm 
life, the cast of which consisted of 
Jean Dahl, Nelle Lea Huffman, 
William Behrse and Louis Gold­
smith. Emanuel Breakstone, Mar­
ian Stanley, Boyd Crawford, Alice 
Neudorfer and Don Gallagher 
formed the cast of Miss Kather­
ine Trufant’s play, a story of 
French Revolution intrigue. Thomas 
Gorman provided a comed3r, in 
which George McCalmon and Wil­
liam Ross acted. In addition, two 
original revue sketches were offer­
ed by Herman Liveright and Wil­
liam Beal.
piness, what can be tfone about it? If you live long enough 
you cannot help becoming twenty-one. You may live for 
a century and never mature, in fact you may actually fight 
to keep from growing up. In such case you may even be 
happy—more so than your associates who have to live with you.
There arc certain actions ncccssarv to growing up. 
The very word itself means getting out from under. Mak- 
ing a graceful exit from^Qimily dependence, including the 
family root, is quite necessary. The change from living as 
men and not children is -hardest. The transition from con­
trolled dependence to self-disciplined independence will face 
you as well as everyone. There are also the processes of 
learning; how to earn a living; , how to develop sexually 
without undue emotional wear and tear, keeping always 
the viewpoint on life that is flexible but definite enough to be .useful.
Consider the poem, authorship forgotten, which may or 
may not suit you, but consider it at least.
Do what thy manhood bids thee do.
From none save self expect applause.
He richest lives and richest dies.
Who makes and KEEPS his self made laws.
How old are you at twentv-one?
FRATERNITY RUSHING SYSTEMS
(Continued from Page One) expiration of the date. The penalty for 
violations rest upon the rushec; lie 
is not allowed to pledge until the 
following semester;
Kansas State College 
The rushing period at the Kansas 
State College this year began Sunday, 
September 13 and continued iintil 4 
p. m. the following Saturday; At this 
institution, a rushcc may be “ribbon 
pledged” after 4 p. m. of the Wed­
nesday of the rushing period. A 
"ribbon pledge” is respected the same 
a formal' pledge, but no person 
may be'formally pledged until lie has 
fulfilled certain faculty requirements 
and is approved by a faculty ad­
viser for fraternities. A "ribbon 
pledge” may immediately move into 
the house to which lie has pledged. All 
dates must be broken by the rushcc 
in person. The' rushing rules provide 
that no dances shall be held outside 
the fraternity house during rushing 
week.
Lehigh University
Lehigh University has a rushing 
system which it believes to be more 
sticccssful than the average system. 
This university’s rushing period ex­
tends for twelve days beginning with 
the first day of Freshman Week, 
which was Tuesday, September 15, 
this year and terminated at one 
o’clock in the afternoon of Saturday, 
September 26. A period of silence ex­
ists from the end of actual rushing 
until 6 o’clock of the same day. Bids 
in the form of written invitations, 
which arc supplied by the Intcr- 
fratcrniiy Council, arc distributed at 
the beginning of the silence period by 
a disinterested person,, all bids to a 
single freshman being enclosed in one 
envelope. The freshman keeps the 
bid which he intends to accept and 
signs all others and return them to 
the disinterested part}'. Bids do not 
extend, longer than for twenty-four 
hours.The only difficulty which has 
arisen under these rules is the ob­
servance of a rule which provides
that no new man at the school shall 
be offered a bid prior to the elose 
of the rushing period,, either before 
or after school opens. It has been 
found difficult to rush a man and at 
the same time not indicate that the 
fraternity is interested in him as a 
prospective pledge. Present plans call 
for a modification of this rule.
No doubt the success of. Lehigh 
University’s rushing .systems is due 
largely to the stringent penalties for 
infractions of the rushing rules. For 
a first offense, the offending fra­
ternity shall suspend all rushing ami 
pledging for the collegiate year, and 
the rusliee or rushecs shall have his 
or their pledges withdrawn. A sec­
ond offense wijjiin four years of 
the first draws the penalty of the 
suspension of all rushing and pledg­
ing until the second term of the fol­
lowing college year. The penalty pro­
vision further provides that “any 
infringement of the decisions of the 
Judical Committee shall b<y punished 
by not allowing any member of the 
fraternity in question to take upon 
himself any college honor, with the 
exception of any scholastic honorary 
society."
University of Maine
As at the University of California, 
the University of Maine’s only rush­
ing rule prevents rushing during 
Freshman Week. In the past, efforts 
have been made to enforce sets of 
rushing rules, but such enforcement 
has only proved to be unsuccessful. 
There is a distinction between rush­
ing and pledging, however. A fresh­
man is not supposed to be pledged 
until about the middle of February, 
but if a freshman so desires, he 
may .honor pledge himself to a fra­
ternity before that. time. This honor
The freshmen at OHIO STATE 
took advantage of campus activities 
to ignore the tradition of wearing 
frosh hats, so an organization of 
sophomores took matters of pun­
ishment into their own hands. As 
the president of the freshman class 
was dressing to go to a formal 
dance, he was kidnaped and taken 
for a ride into the country. He 
was branded with a ’35 numeral in 
red paint on his forehead, his hair 
was clipped in several spots, and 
a large chain was fastened around 
his neck. He returned to his home 
none the- worse from his experi­
ence, but the glories of being 
proxy had gone.
We don’t believe this, but it will 
illustrate something or other. A 
certain professor at the UNIVER­
SITY OF OKLAHOMA told his 
class that nothing less than a 
broken neck would be an excuse 
for an absence. Well, they say 
that one co-cd, suffering from the 
flu” had herself carried to class 
on a stretcher, only to find that 
the professor had remained at 
home with a headache.
The leader of a book ring which 
stole 2,500 volumes from a HAR­
VARD library was recently con­
victed and the books recovered. 
Each of these books will contain 
a bookplate with the following 
inscription: “This book was stolen 
from the Harvard College library. 
It was later recovered, and the 
thief was sentenced to two years 
of hard labor.”.
^ DARTMOUTH and YALE tie 
for first place in the hearts of 
WELLESLEY students. HAR­
VARD men rate zero and COR­
NELL, M. I. T., and PRINCETON 
are far from the top.
The LEHIGH UNIVERSITY 
chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon is 
making preparations for that 
school’s traditional gridiron - ban­
quet. *The affair will be held in 
April, and typical scenes of things 
that happen to the average student 
in his four years on the campus 
will be presented. The LEHIGH 
'faculty will get an espccial amount 
of razzing, and at the close of the 
dinner the guests will be asked to 
give- their verdict as to the pro­
fessor who should be considered 
chief murderer. The "penalty” for 
this “crime” will be a shiny new 
brown derby. Yes, we agree our 
local Pi Delts had better stick to 
journalistic contests.
BOSS HALL AGAIN HIGHEST
(Continued from Page One) 
Rho, again repeated as the highest 
ranking of the five men’s dormi­
tories with an average of 3.58. The 
hall ranked first for both the first 
semester and the first and second' 
semesters last year. .McGill Hall 
ranks second for the first semester 
of this year. At the end of the 
first semester last year, Scobell Hall 
was second, and for the entire year, 
Henderson Hall secured second 
place.The average rating for all the 
fraternities is 3.49, and for the 
-men’s dormitories, 3.43.
Below are the complete lists of 
the fraternity and men’s dormitory 
ratings:Fraternities
1. Beta Sigma Rho--------------4.02
2. Phi Kappa ----------------------3.93
3. Alpha Sigma Phi--------------3.84
4. Phi Sigma Kappa.-----------3.78
5. Pi Kappa Alpha--------.-----3.73
6. Theta Xi ------------------------3.72
7. Delta Sigma Lambda-------3.70
8. Alpha Tau Omega------------3.66
9. Beta Theta Pi----------'— 3.65
10. Delta Tau Delta----------------3.56
11. Kappa Sigma---------------------3.46
12. Tau Delta Phi ---------------3.43
13. Kappa Delta Rho-------------3.35
14. Sigma Alpha Epsilon--------3.30
15. Delta Upsilon ----------------- 3.25
16. Sigma Phi Epsilon------------3.24
17. Alpha Phi Delta -------------3.23
18. Sigma Nu --------------------3.20
19. Phi Kappa Psi-----------------2.93
20. Lambda Chi Alpha —-— 2.80
Men’s Dormitories
1. Boss Hall -----------------------3.58
2. McGill Hall -------------------3.49
3. Scobell Hall --------------------3.42
4.- Henderson Hall --------------3.40
5. Welch Hall -------------------3.27
2. Hawthorn Hall ___________4.05
3. Mellon Hall ______________3.97
4. Cedar Hall ____:__________3.88
5. Linden Hall ______________3.74
6. Laurel Hall ________1____3.54
7. Birch Hall -----------------------3.50
8. Elm Hall _______________3.47
9. Magnolia Hall__________ 3.44
FORBES TOPS CO-ED DORMS
(Continued from Page One) 
fourfh. At the end of the last 
year the yearly averages ranked 
Forbes Hall, Cedar Hall and Lin­
den Hall second, third and fourth.
The complete list of the sorority 
and women’s dormitory rankings is 
as follows:Sororities of College of Fine Arts
1. Alpha Kappa Psi--------------4.45
2. Beta Pi ---------------------------4.38
3. Gamma Gamma Gamma-----4.36
4. Beta Tau Lambda--------------4.33
Women’s Dormitories 
1. Forbes Hall -— -------- — 4.09
pledge is as binding as a regular 
pledge. By administrative action, 
freshmen are not allowed to be 
initiated into fraternities, nor arc they 
permitted to live in fraternity houses.
(Fur I her results of this survey will 
appear in next week’s Tartan).
Fifth Advertising
Exposition Begins
The Fifth Annual Advertising 
Exposition and Conference spon­
sored by the Pittsburgh Advertis­
ing Club is being held from Mon­
day until Thursdajr this week at 
the Pirate Hall in the William 
Penn Hotel. This is an annual 
exhibit that arouses much interest, 
ten to fifteen thousand people hav­
ing visited it last year.
The exhibits entered for com­
petition will be judged by advertis­
ing experts for the award of one^ 
first prize, one second prize, and 
an honorable mention in cach divi­
sion of the exposition. There arc 
three groups: Advertisements; di­
rect mail advertising; and signs, 
posters, and streamers, with num- 
berous subdivisions under cach 
general class. There is an exhibit 
by the Department of Printing at 
Carnegie, prepared by Homer E. 
Sterling, instructor in sketching 
and design.
Among the new features' of this 
exposition are booths to display 
activities of thé following media: 
Radio advertising, motion pictures, 
remembrance advertising, packag­
ing, and window, displays: These
will be educational in nature and 
will be non-competitive.
ESTABLISHED 1818
Mnyther n.orfo 1e0; 3e0p'm3ef0pE hp0oop 
roS 'e0T: ,
Our Representative will be 
at the
1nem2 CB:m42mc 
en.Edcu
APRIL 12
Send for Folder of "Spring Clothes”
BRANCHES 
NEW YORK: one wall street
lehperO NEWBURY COR. BERKELEY STREET
roS-e0p -nHM Ion1E
TENNIS RACQUETS 
RESTRUNG
Armour Gut. Dependable Work 
Official Tech Restringer 
Call J. N. Jones - SC. 9436
A SURE FOUNDATION
One of the safest founda­
tions on which to build your 
financial independence is a 
savings account. Systematic 
saving, begun while you are 
in college, will page the 
way tor a successful future. 
Our Savings Accounts pay 
liberal interest compounded 
semi-annually. |
Mellon WahonalBankPlttslM£dh. Pa.
Girls vote for
PIPES
(for men !)
A
SIC any girl you know to name her 
. favorite smoke—for men! Ten to 
one she’ll say a pipe!
She’s discovered—trust her bright 
little eyes—that it’s the BIG men, on 
the campus and off, who welcome the 
mental stimulation 
and relaxation they 
get from this real 
man’s smoke.
And if she’s very 
wise in the ways of 
smokers, she’ll go 
one better than 
that. She’ll tell you 
the men who know, 
smoke Edgeworth!
No two ways 
about it, you do gfet a doubly satisfy­
ing smoke when you fill up your pipe 
with this famous old blend. It’s a happy 
combination of choice burleys — cut 
long to give you 
a cool, slow- 
burning smoke. 
And its mellow 
flavor and rich 
aromahavemade 
Edgeworth the 
favorite pipe 
tobacco on 42 
out of 50 cam­
puses. I ^ 
Help yourself 
to a pipeful next time someonp pulls 
Edgeworth out of his pocket. Pick up 
the familiar blue tin yourself at any 
good tobacco stand. Or for a special 
free sample packet write to Larus & Bro. 
Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys, 
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge­
worth’s distinctive 
and exclusive elev­
enth process. Buy 
Edgeworth any­
where in two forms 
—Edgeworth Ready- 
Rubbed and Edge- 
worth Plug Slice. Ail 
sizes, 15 ji pocket 
package to £1.50 
pound humidor tin.
A real man’s smoke
