TAWAN
VOL. 44—Nö. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
Area Reserved 
For Students 
At Grid Games
;Council Will Unify 
CIT Cheering Section 
Near Fifty-Yard Line
In a determined effort to obtain 
a more unified cheering section at 
home football games, Student 
Council last Wednesday took ac­
tion to reserve a portion of Forbes 
Field to be occupied by Carnegie 
students only.
Section six and the halves of 
sections five and seven adjacent to 
section six will be held for the use 
of CIT students. These sections in­
clude both the first and second 
tiers in the local baseball park.
Council has requested that all 
students cooperate in the new 
seating arrangement and thus give 
the Tartan footballers a cheering 
section that can be heard on the 
playing field.
The reserved sections provide a 
seating capacity of approximately 
2500. According to Director of In­
tercollegiate Athletics, Clarence 
Overend, student activities cards 
are valid only for these three sec­
tions.
Although, this ruling has not 
been enforced, authorities threaten 
to enforce it if necessary. Since 
section six is situated opposite the 
fifty-yard line, certainly the best 
seats available, it is doubtful that 
enforcement will be necessary.
In order to facilitate easy recog­
nition of the student sections, 
bright-colored crepe paper will 
mark the. area.
Election Notice
Nomination petitions for 
freshman class, officers are 
now available in the Dean of 
Students office, IH 144. 
Petitions must be returned to 
the Dean of Students office no 
later than noon Friday, Oct.
The election will be held 
Tuesday, Oct. 17.
Petitions for the office of 
president, secretary, and 
treasurer must contain 30 
freshman signatures, 10 from 
each college.
Three vice-presidents will 
be elected. One each from En­
gineering and Science, Mar­
garet Morrison, and Fine Arts. 
These petitions must contain 
15 signatures.
Freshmen can sign only one 
petition for each office to be 
filled.
All full-time freshmen are 
eligible.
Allan J. Moore 
Student Council 
Election Chairman
Construction Continuing 
With Morewood Addition
New NE Building
Recent Addition To Engineering Hall
women and rushees are invited to 
the women’s dorm.
Silent period starts Sunday, 
Oct. 15 at l0:00 p. m. and lasts 
until 5:00 p. m. Tuesday, Oct. 17, 
when bids will be received by 
rushees.
Rushirig^.is to. be based on the 
honor system for both sorority 
and rushee. Any sorority violat­
ing any of the rules set up by 
Panhellenic Council will be sub­
ject to penalty at the discretion 
of the Council.
-Fall Sorority;, Rushing ¦
Features Parties, Teas
Fall sorority rushing formally opened Sept. 23 and 24 with 
Panhellenic open house. All interested upper class women, exclusive 
Of this semester transfer students, attended the open houses, but only 
those with a factor of at least 1.8 may be invited to the teas and 
parties. - '
Membership selection will be 
confined to one party ahd one tea. 
for'each sorority. Attendance at 
these affairs will'be by invitation 
only.
Tea Schedule
The schedule for the teas is as 
follows: Sigma Kappa, Sept. 28,
5:00-7:00, Carnegie Union; Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, Sept. 28, 7:00- 
9:00, private home; Kappa Alpha 
Theta, Oct. 1, 5:30-7:30, private 
home; Delta Delta Delta, Oct. 1,
1:00-3:00, Carnegie Union; Chi 
Omega, Oct. 1, 3:00-5:00, Carnegie 
Union; Delta Gamma, Oct. 2, 5:00- 
7:00, Carnegie Union; Alpha Ep­
silon Phi, Oct. 7, 2:00-4:00, Car- 
ftegie Union.
Party Schedule 
The parties are scheduled as 
follows: Alpha Epsilon Phi, .Sept.
29, 8:00-12:00, private home;
Delta Delta Delta, Oct. 6, 8:00- 
12:00, PiKA house; Delta Gamma,
Oct. 7, 8:00-12:00, PiKA house;
Kappa Alpha Theta,. Oct. 8, 6:00- 
10:00, private home; Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, Oct. 13, 8:00-12:00, DU 
house; Sigma Kappa, Oct. 14, 8:00—
12:00, DU'house; Chi Omega, Oct.
15, 6:00-10:00, South Park Com­
munity House.
There is to be no social contact 
between sorority members and 
rushees between the hours of 
7:00 p. m. and 7:00 a. m. during 
the formal rushing period.
Dining Room Open 
Luncheon dates, however, are 
permitted both in Skibo and 
Morewood Gardens this year.
Both commuter and dorm sorority
Homecoming Plans Announced 
By ODK and Mortar Board
Carnegie Day, Inauguration Set For Friday; 
Students May Attend Altknni-sponsored Dance
Plans for student participation in Carnegie’s Homecoming week­
end have been annpunced by ODK and Mortar Board. These plans 
were made in addition to those for Dr. Warner’s -inauguration and 
the fiftieth 'anniversary celebration.
Carnegie Day. will take place 
Friday afternoon following the 
morning’s inajfgural ceremony. 
Featured also in Friday’s program 
is the freshman-sophomore-junior 
competition. The addition • of the 
juniors to the competition is some­
thing new this year. A pep rally 
on the cut will close the day’s 
activities.
Chairmen Chosen 
Aside from the above activities, 
ODK and Mortar Board will also 
be in charge of the fraternity dec­
orations and the freshmen queen 
elections respectively.
Chairmen of the various com­
mittees have been chosen as fol­
lows: Stanley R. March, inaugura­
tion and anniversary committee; 
H. K. Kirk-Patrick, academic pro­
cession; Carl'C. Monrad, dedication 
of new addition to' Engineering 
Hall; William H. E. Johnson, del­
egates luncheon; Webster N. Jones, 
departmental open house; Law­
rence Carra, drama production; 
Clarence Overend, football game 
activities; Harold L. Lang, inves­
titure proceedings; Melvin J. 
Voigt, invitations; Charles A. H. 
Pearson, music; John E. Pekruhn, 
staging and decorations; Norman 
H. Dawes, transportation and hous­
ing. The alumni committees are 
to be selected for the fiftieth an­
niversary luncheon and fiftieth an­
niversary ball.
Dinner Dance 
Tickets for the alumni-sponsored 
dinner dance on Saturday night, 
October 28, will be sold at $15. 
If they so desire, students may 
obtain tickets for the dance only, 
specially priced for them at $2.00.
During the triple-feature week­
end Carnegie will be host to 430 
guests. Of these, 225 will be from 
colleges and universities; 48 from 
professional and learned societies, 
general associations, and honor 
fraternities; 40 from public trusts, 
foundations and institutes; 96 from 
industries, business and labor or­
ganizations; and 21 from govern­
ment, civic organizations and sec­
ondary schools.
C-Book Notice
Students who have changed 
their Pittsburgh address since 
the time ¿hey filled out their 
registration permit should 
contact the registrar before 
the 29 of this month to assure 
their correct address getting 
into the. student directory (C- 
Book). They will be asked to 
fill out a form, recording any 
changc of address. This form 
will be forwarded to the Pub­
lic Relations Office where the 
burden of the work of pub- 
' lishing the C-Book is carried.
All too often someone has a 
gripe about his address in the 
C-Book being incorrect; here's 
your chance to see that it 
doesn't happen to you» The 
deadline is noon Friday« 
Sept. 29.
Draft?
Notice to faculty and stu­
dents who may be subject to 
call to military service under 
selective service or.from en­
listed and officers reserves and 
the National Guard:
The Office of l>can Webster 
N. Jones, College of Engineer­
ing and Science, has been des­
ignated to handle all cases in­
volving: . military service. for 
both . faculty and students. 
Members of the faculty or stu- . 
dents who receive notice of 
classification,,,-ordcrs to report 
for physical' examination, or 
orders to report for active duty, 
should consult Dean Jones* 
Office as soon as they receive 
such notification.
J. C. Warner, President
C Club Dance 
To Be Held 
On Saturday
The first all school dance of the 
year will be held in the gymna­
sium from 9:00 to 1:00, Saturday 
night, September 30. Sponsored by, 
the Varsity C Club, the affair fol­
lows the Davis-Elkins game, CIT’s 
first of the season. Music will be 
provided by Brad Hunt and his or­
chestra.
Robert Dougherty, president of 
Varsity C Club, is chairman of 
the dance. Other committee heads 
include Dick Barr, decorations; 
Quent Holtz, tickets; and A1 
Macy, publicity.
Tickets are $2.00 per couple, tax 
included, and will go on sale to­
morrow, September 27, in Skibo 
and at the door on Saturday night.
The C Club’s dance last year 
was one of the few financially suc­
cessful social affairs on campus.
Scot
All students interested in 
working on the Scot, the CIT 
variety magazine« please at­
tend the re-organization meet­
ing in the Black Cat (down­
stairs Thistle Hall) at 4:30 
p.m. Wednesday, Sept. .27. 
Both new applicants and for­
mer staff members are urged 
to attend. There are openings 
in ail departments including 
features, production, sports, 
typing, photography, art, and 
layout.
Carnegie’s expanded construc­
tion program hit a high point as 
the first classes were held re­
cently in the million dollar addi­
tion to Engineering Hall. The new 
wing and extensive renovations 
now completed at Morewood Gar- 
dents show another phase of the 
same ambitious plan.
The new cut parking lot now 
under construction, and the pro­
posed industrial administration 
building are two of the other large 
scale projects designed to expand 
the school’s academic and social 
facilities.
Unit Op Lab
Housing sections of the chemis­
try and chemical engineering-de­
partments. the new section of En­
gineering Hall includes four class­
rooms, a lecture room, several of­
fices, plus undergrad and gradu­
ate laboratories. Of special import­
ance is the new unit operations lab 
to be used by chemical engineering 
students.
Though classes were held in the, 
new building (officially known as 
NE) on the first day of the se­
mester, the offices were not occu­
pied until last Saturday. Some fin­
ishing and incidental work will go 
on into October, with several of 
the labs still to be competed and 
equipped.
Modern, Functional 
Completion of the new wing and 
renovations at Morewood Gardens 
mark the first time Carnegie has 
been able to feed and house all of 
its resident women students under 
one roof. The addition embodies 
both' the gothic spirit of the main 
building, while including advan­
tages of a modern, functional 
building.
Extending from the main build­
ing, the. new wing has two floors. 
The first, below sidewalk level, in­
cludes a large and small dining 
room (and a third private one), a 
caieteria counter, and the kitchen. 
Second floor facilities include 
lounge rooms, library room. Dorm 
Council meeting room, reception 
desk, cloakroom, post office, pow­
der room, men’s room, and record 
room. The new wing and additions 
to the main dormitory provide 
dining space for five hundred, and 
nine lounge areas.
Million Dollar Cost 
Carnegie has now spent a total 
of approximately $1,800,000 on 
[Continued on page 8)
Bus Service ; 
Set For Game
Delta Skull Arranges 
Student Bus Trips
Tartan rooters are in for a 
special treat this year. Delta Skull 
is arranging for transportation for 
Carnegie students to the away 
football games.
The first trip will be Meadville 
on Oct. 21, when the Skibos will 
encounter Allegheny in a home­
coming attraction.
Chartered buses will leave the 
CIT campus at 10:30 a.m. and re- . 
turn to Pittsburgh immediately 
after the game. The fare will be 
approximately .$2.50 per person.
The second excursion will be to 
New Wilmington on Nov. 18. This 
game with Westminster will be the 
last of the year for the Tartans.' 
The time of departure and fares 
for this trip will be announced in 
a later edition of the Tartan.
Fraternities and other campus 
organizations are invited to char­
ter buses for these trips. Reserva­
tions must be made in advance by 
contacting Ed Mitchell at SC. 1-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2fAWANWEDNESDAY, SEPT! 27, 1950
Editorials—Time For A Change
Now that the mad period known as 
'rushing” is completed, it seems a logical time 
for Carnegie fraternities to size up the situ­
ation once again and see if there isn’t any 
better system than has been used during the 
_ past several years.
The past week has impressed many people 
as not only being unsatisfactory for freshmen, 
but also for fraternity men. For the fresh­
men, it is unfair to their sincere attempt to 
adjust to college life when fraternities swoop 
down on them without much of any warning. 
Too, the freshmen now enrolling at Carnegie 
Tech are younger and more inmtaure than 
those of previous years; the result being a 
feeling of insecurity among the majority of 
freshmen who find themselves sought after in a 
manner they find difficult to comprehend at 
first.
The fraternity men, on the other hand, 
also find themselves hard pressed during the 
hectic week. The competition among frater­
nities seems to be forcing more intensified 
rushing programs each year. If it is jusi 
a case of the Jones’ keeping up with the 
Smiths’, then we feel that most fraternities 
would welcome any change that would bring 
relief from the type of program new in ex­
istence.
Delayed rushing in some form may be the 
answer to the problem. Probably not the de­
ferred pledging program that was presented 41 
to the Council of Fraternity Presidents last 
fall, but a mollified version with the changes 
made where most strenuous objections were 
made by the collective fraternities.
Last fall, it appeared that the fraternities 
were resisting the idea of the change itself 
more than they were resisting the basic 
fundamentals incorporated in the plan. 
There was concern about the change-over 
period, _\vhen some houses might experi­
ence financial losses due to the absence of a 
regular pledge class in the first semester. 
If alL of the fraternities could forget their 
very transient nature for a while, and think 
of the over-all benefits of an improved rush­
ing program, the financial losses of one sem­
ester could be amortized over the preceding 
and succeeding semesters to the change.
Now that the incoming freshmen classes 
liayc settled down in both size and age from 
the post-war period, it would seem that fra­
ternities should want to adjust their ways to. 
keep in step with the ¿hanging conditions.
Happy Birthday!
This seems to be the year for anniver­
saries!
What with Carnegie Tech celebrating its 
50th birthday this fall, another anniversary 
is apt to pass by unnoticed. Carnegie Tech’s 
Y.M.C.A. celebrates its 30th year of serv­
ice to students this month.
Originally founded as a religious organi­
zation, the Y has developed and promoted 
additional activities on Carnegie’s campus, 
making it an invaluable service group to all 
students.
Leading the Carnegie Y into its 30th 
year, as he led it in its first year, will be 
Rollin V. Davis. Mr. Davis, whose office is 
located on the first floor of the Carnegie 
Union, has probably had more contacts with 
Carnegie Tech men than any other person 
on campus.
The Tartan wishes to extend anniversary 
greetings lo Mr. Davis and the T, sincere con­
gratulations for their fine work in the past, 
and best wishes for another 30 years of suc- 
cuessful assistance to Carnegie Tech students.
Letters To The Ed/for—
What Happened
To Skibo Plan ?
Editor, the Tartan:
In the spring oi last year there was much talk 
around campus about Wes Kenney’s plan for the 
redecoration and remodeling of Skibo. As far as 
I can see the project seems to have died &n the 
vine and I for one would like to know whether 
or not the school authorities intend to do anything 
further with the plan.
It may be that I am merely ill-informed and 
that financial or other considerations prevent any 
action at this time, but I for one would like to 
see at least an attempt made to give this project 
a place on the renovation schedule here at Tech.
As I remember, the plans called for addition 
of false rafters to deaden the noise at mealtimes, 
| changes in the lighting system, canned music, 
floor coverings, etc.—in short, improvements which 
would dispel some of the hanger-like atmosphere 
of our cafeteria.
Other campuses around the country are fam 
ous for their comfortable student lounges and 
cafeterias. While I agree that it is better for the 
school to be noted for the quality of Us educational 
program than for the elegance of its student eat­
ing facilities, I believe that the continued use of 
a converted airplane hanger as a noisy, uncom­
fortable, and ill-lighted cafeterias does not speak 
highly of the school administration and its poli­
cies—unless, of course, the school officials plan 
some action in the near future. I realize that 
with the heavy construction program now in pro­
gress there may be more pressing projects than 
Skibo, but I sincerely hope that Wes Kenney’s 
plan, or some modification of it, can be put into 
effect as soon as 'possible.
Interested Student.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes St.. Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 1-4557. after hours; news. MU. 1-7017, MU 1-6912; business, EM. 1-6597. SC. 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and' examination eriods, by the students oi Carnegie Institute of Technology Pittsburgh. Pa.
Editor-in-chief .............................................. Paul V. Offermanr.naa».,«ss Manager .................................................. Morton BakerA.-n.ftng Editor ...................................................... Lloyd Dyerr^.^»onel Manager .................................................. Ray Mangold
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907. at thePost. Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under the Act of March 3,.3.9. Accepted for mailing ?jt special rale of postage pro­vided /or in the Act of Fcbnjary 28, 1925. Authorized Oc- >ob«K 21, 1918.
Parking Plans 
Seem Stalled
Editor, the Tartan:
As an interested member of the student body, 
I would like to ask two questions of the school:
(1) Why are students not being given a bigger 
part in Homecoming this year? Perhaps it is just 
that the Tartan has over-emphasized the alumni 
part of the celebration, and the students will ac­
tually have as big a part in the festivities as 
previously, but from what I have read and heard 
to date it seems we are being almost totally ig­
nored. If I’m wrong about this, as I hope I am, 
I would appreciate some information.
(2) What has happened to .construction of the 
.parking lot on the cut? The -first two or thr^e days 
after. I was back in Pittsburgh there seemed to 
be. activity of a sort, but recently I haven’t seen 
a workman near the place. What are they planning 
to do—use those piles of gravel as an obstacle 
course for the ROTC students? I understand that 
when they break ground for the new IA building 
the parking lot behind Skibo will be unavailable. 
Where are the cars going to go?
A Poor Physicist.
Drama School 
Opens Season
Carnegie’s Drama Department 
will open its season with the pre­
sentation of “Liliom.” A fantasy 
written by Ferenc Molnar, “Lili- 
om” will run from October 19 
through October 28.
The main character of the play 
is Liliom, a shiftless young ne’er- 
do-well and bully of Budapest. 
Liliom works part time as a barker 
for a merry-go-round and cap­
tures many a young servant girls 
heart with his charms. One of 
these girls is Julie who later be­
comes his wife.
Learning he is going to be a 
father, Liliom helps in a highway 
robbery in order to raise some 
money. However, he is caught in 
the act and stabs himself rather 
than submit to arrest.
He is tried in the magistrates 
court on high, but they see 
through him. They know how he 
came to beat the girl whom he 
married down below, how he 
planned the robbery, and how he 
killed himself. They know he is 
repentant although he is too 
cocky to admit-it.
He is sentenced to years in the 
purifi'ing fires of the penitential 
plains with the promise that he 
can return to earth at the end of 
his term with the’ chance to do 
one good deed there.
The cast of characters for “Lili- 
om” is as follows: Liliom, Alan 
Oppenheimer and John Bishop; 
Julie, Sally Seidman and Angela 
Paton; Fiscur, Phil Flad; Magis­
trate, Gerald Stovin; Wolf, Robert 
Carr; Hollunder, Raymond Tudor; 
Carpenter and Guard, John Zisel- 
man; Linzman, Don Stewart; Doc­
tor, A1 Julius; Marie, Jane Harris; 
Mrs. Muskrat, Jane Hughes; 
Louise, Marjorie Paxson; Mrs. 
Hollunder, Beverly Shaffer; No. 1 
plain policeman and heavenly po­
liceman, Robert Henderson; No. 2 
plain policeman and heavenly po­
liceman, Wm, McDonald; No. 1 
mounted policeman and rich man, 
Thomas Brubaker; No. 2 mounted 
policeman and poor man, Ray 
Shermeyer.
“LiJiom” is the play from which 
the musical “Carousal” was taken.
The second production of the 
season will be “I Remember 
Mama” by John von Druten.
By Dolly Mitchell 
SILENT AS A TOMB . . . Some 
students cannot understand why 
Skibo is a mob scene every lunch 
hour even though dormitory girls 
now eat at Morewood. The ex­
planation is simple; Carnegie Inn 
no longer serves lunch. But there 
is plenty of space in the new stu­
dent lounge in the Inn. Not a soul 
comes near the place. The lounge 
lias comfortable chairs, bridge ta­
bles, all the comforts. And 
yet, no students have shown up. 
Wha’ th’ matter with you?
A SHORT SHORT ... If an In­
dustrial Administration man talks 
about BMD’s, don’t get it mixed 
with BVD’s. BMD stands for basic 
management decision.
OF CRACKS AND CRACK POTS 
. . . For a while the addition to En­
gineering Hall was not what it 
seemed to be. Part of the founda­
tion receded slightly and caused a 
separation in the cribbing of the 
walls. This, however, has been 
repaired.
ON THE LEVEL ... Do you know 
that there are 27 different floor 
levels in the Fine Arts building? 
Count them sometime.
RECORDS . . . Our athletic direc­
tor, "Buddy” Overend, will miss a 
CIT football game for the first 
time in about 26 years. He will be 
in the hospital during Carnegie’s 
•first game.
ALUMNI . . . John Snyder,- treas­
urer of Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, is a Carnegie gradu­
ate.
OUR ANNIVERSARY . . . Car­
negie’s 50th anniversary is re­
ceiving quite a layout in the Sun- 
Telegraph. For four consecutive 
days, the Tele has featured articles 
on Carnegie’s history. These ar­
ticles are worth saving. : 
ABROAD .. . John Fockler, public 
relations, studied at the. Univer­
sity of Oslo, Norway, this past 
summer.
A NOTICE ... To all senior men 
who have had their pictures tak­
en at Gimbel’s: The Thistle staff is 
sorry to report that it does not 
know the name of the brunette 
who works in the Photo-Reflex 
Studio.
MORE PLAQUES . . . After fifty 
years Carnegie has at last identi­
fied its campus. It must have taken 
a long time to make the plaques 
placed at the entrance of the cut. 
Now Pittsburghers will know 
where Tech is. i.
ADVERTISEMENT . . . The man­
aging editor of the Technical says 
that printing students can get; ¡a 
rare specimen for ad production 
out of the forthcoming issue; it; is 
a two color keyed half-tone. i 
CHOO-CHOO TRAIN ... A train 
disrupted the quiet serenity of 
Carnegie Union last Friday night 
when the Citcom partygoers 
snaked through the halls shouting 
“Choo choo! No stops.” Mrs. Ha­
gans commented that it was the 
first time a train ever ran through 
the Union.
FIGUREHEAD ON CAMPUS ...? . 
Back in 1922 the U. S. Govern­
ment bestowed a gift of a bronzed 
figurehead from the dismantled 
USS Pittsburgh upon CIT. The 
w6rd “gift” was questioned when 
Carnegie’s treasurer received a 
freight bill of 282 dollars. This 
"gift” is mounted on the prow 
which overlooks the railroad 
tracks behind Machinery Hall.
Ed/for —d,SC 1-90S8-
If You Radio Doesn’t Work 
See Fields, Fryer, or Burk
SC 1-9085 E-108 FPHA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, sept. 27, 1950TAMAMVPage 3
Frats Pledge 177 As 
Hectic Rushing Ends
Following one week of intensified rushing, Carnegie’s twelve 
social fraternities reported a total of 177 pledges. The past week 
has been one continual party for all freshmen who attended the 
many fraternity smokers, parties, dances, and picnics.
In an attempt to get the fresh-*----------------------------------------------------------
men better acquainted among more Faculty Member
Holds Exposition 
In New York City
fraternities during rushing, no 
pledging was allowed until the 
freshmen had secured the signa­
tures of officers from four different 
fraternities.
The complete list of fraternity 
pledges follows:
Alpha Tau Omega — Elroy 
Wildhaber, Elvin Cavanaugh, Phil 
Euridge, Charles Richards III, Don 
Wildman, Harold Poe, Richard 
Barbian, Don Moss.
Beta Sigma Rho — Murray Tal- 
lenfield, Peter Herman, Harvey 
White, Walter Schey, Frank Lock- 
feld, Joseph Manchester, Charles 
Jacobs, Don Haberman, Ronald 
Friedman, Theodore Friedman, 
Sydney Furie, Steve Schneck, Bar­
ry Frank, Dick Weitzer, Sandy 
Cgoger, Dave Hofspeigel.
Beta Theta Pi — Bob Helm- 
boldt, Bill Geneung, Ed Neilson, 
Jack Thompson, Bob Sitler, Dan 
Loneski, Bob Wise, Walt Wagner, 
Jim Hall, Bill Rowe, Don Dunck- 
lee, Stanley Gaines, Harvey Dietz, 
Bill Kernahan.
Delta Tau Delta — Rod Ander­
son, Charles Atwood, George Billy, 
[Continued on page 8]
Roger Anliker, a young artist 
who has earned considerable fame 
in the Cleveland, Akron, and 
Pittsburgh areas, will have his 
first New York City one-man 
showing Oct. 2 through 21.
Anliker, who is a member of the 
CIT Painting and Design faculty, 
will show 16 framed works atid 
a portfolio of drawings and studies 
in the Jacques Sgligmann .Gal­
leries.
The 26 year old artist studied at 
,the Cleveland Institute of Art and 
graduated in 1947 with top senior 
honors and the $1200 Agnes Gund 
Memorial Scholarship, which he 
used for research on the Eastern 
Coast line and a year of graduate 
study under John Teyral of the 
Cleveland Institute.
One of the new works which 
Anliker will show in New York 
during October is called “Black 
Swan,” and is a free interpretation 
6f the “Black Swan Aria” from 
the opera “The Midum” by Gian- 
Carlo Menotti.
Garry Your Money 
in your fountain pen ?
Not exactly . . . but if you have a Mellon 
Checking Account, a fountain pen and your 
checkbook will take the place of carrying 
large amounts of cash. Until you need 
your money, it is safe in the bank . . . and 
yet can be withdrawn easily.
And when you pay bills, mail a check and 
save yourself time and travel. The cancelled 
check is evidence that you have made 
payment.
We offer two types of checking services— 
Regular and Specialized Checking Accounts. 
Many persons have found these services 
helpful in handling' their money. Perhaps 
one of them would be useful to you, too.
Let us show you the advantages of a Mellon 
Checking Account.
OAKLAND OFFICE 
Fifth and Oakland Avenues
MELLON NATIONAL BANK 
AND TRUST COJWPANY
M«vber F«d«c*l Dcpivk TuuMne» Co«powl*«»
S ’n S. Wants 
Songs, Skits
Annual Musical Revue 
Marks Spring Carnival
Although last year’s Scotch ’n 
Soda show was completed just be­
fore the end of the spring term, 
the S’S board is already^ looking 
for new skits and songs to be used 
in this year's production.
The Scotch ’n Soda musical re­
vue is an annual introduction to 
the celebration of CIT’s Spring 
Carnival weekend. Each year over 
100 students are involved in the 
show, doing such jobs as acting, 
singing, stage-work, orchestra 
work, or writing.
Last year’s show, entitled “Too 
Much,” had skits depicting Car­
negie’s athletic policy, a student 
and his dating troubles, the “Fast­
est Man in Town,” and a magician 
amusing his girl friend. It also in­
troduced such campus hits as “I’ve 
Got a Four Factor and a Broken 
Heart.”
Any ^tudent who has a skit, 
song, or even an idea for the show 
should contact the Scotch.’n Soda 
board through . the intra-school 
mail, or tell one of the board 
members before Oct. 1.
Members of the board this year 
are Dan Cantor, A1 Moore, Bob 
Larimer, Joe Weinreich, Fred 
Price, Jeanne Button, Dick Learn­
er, and Dorothy Schell.
Patronise
Tartan
Advertisers
RENT .a typewriter
and keep up 
with your work
Q
< Portables 
Standard - Office Machines 
Wide Carriage Machines
Rates as low as 
jq per month
3 Mos. $8.75
FIRST RENTAL APPLIES 
TO PURCHASE PRICE
Fort Pitt 
Typewriter Co.
614 Libert» Avenue
AT. 1-3320
Rollin V. Davis
Hear’s: YMCA At Carnegie
YMCA to Celebrate 
Thirtieth Anniversary
While CIT celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, one of Carnegie’s 
oldest and most active offspring, the local student branch of the 
YMCA, will be just turning thirty. Mr. Rollin V. Davis, the man 
who has guided the campus branch all these years can well be
---------------:-----------------------------------------?proud of the organization’s past
^ and present record.Book store 
Stocks Variety 
Of Books, Gifts
Professor Max Schoen 
Will Autograph Book 
At CIT On October 1
Carnegie’s local group was form­
ed at the request of students who 
felt that there was a need for-more 
religious activity on campus. Orig­
inal activities included discussion 
groups, visitation of the sick, en­
tertainment of out of town stu-.. 
dents, religious activities, and 
sports.
Religion and Service
The present day organization has 
wide range of interests and 
services, for, in the words of Mr.
The CIT book store has seen re-»Davis, “The YMCA at Carnegie
markable changes since the days 
of crowds and confusion. Books 
and school supplies are still there, 
of course; but also available are 
such items .as stopwatches’, jack- 
knives, sweaters, balsa wood, and 
even 25 cent pockét mysteriés.
Plans for the new, enlarged" 
store began at ,a meeting of the 
book store, advisory committee in 
April, 1949. Originally the-purpose 
was to create display space for 
books of general interest, encour­
aging students to read books to 
broaden their cultural background 
and interests. This, of course, is 
one of the objectives of the famous 
Carnegie plan of professional ed­
ucation.
One thing led to another, and 
the store began to add more and 
more items selected with an eye 
toward the student’s^ convenience. 
Gift items such as children’s books, 
greeting cards, and cook books arc 
stocked purely as services to busy 
students. Personalized Christmas 
cards will be available this fall.
Plenty of activity is scheduled 
for thé near future in the book 
store. On Oct. 10 Max.Schoen, pro­
fessor emeritus of psychology, will 
be here and will autograph copies 
of his book “The Man That Jesus 
Was.” Starting Nov. 1, there will 
be a publisher - remainder - sale, 
featuring fine books at bargain 
prices. New merchandise is con­
stantly being added, and Mr. 
Sands, manager of the store, says, 
“If we don’t have it, we will get 
it for you.1
Tech is both a religious organiza­
tion and a service organization.1* 
Some of the activities which the 
branch carries on include holding 
a. freshman, dinner, supplying 
churches with, names of students 
of their denomination, giving coun- 
ciling service, keeping a library o£ 
religious books, and holding three 
retreats each year in the fall, 
winter, and spring..
Sponsoring of the annual re- 
ligious discussion week is one of 
the most publicized activities of 
the “Y”. Each year, fifteen or 
twenty ministers of different faiths 
are invited to speak on and dis­
cuss the problems of religion with, 
student groups. In this way the 
organization helps' the student 
“correlate his religious thinking 
with . his increasing scientific 
knowledge.0
Active Leader
Mr. Davis became blanch exec­
utive secretary of the Carnegie 
group in 1921 and has been an 
active student councilor and leader 
since that time. He consolidated 
and enlarged the services, activ­
ities and principles of the CIT 
branch, and he was instrumental 
in developing a program to aid the. 
large number of GI students after- 
the last war.
From 1921 to 1943. Mr. Davis 
was active in the centralization of 
student government. He was ex­
ecutive secretary of student council 
until 1943 and aided the develop­
ment of student activities and the 
centralized financing needed for 
these activities.
Mr. Davis attended Clarion State 
Teachers College and Oberlin, 
where he studied law until inter­
rupted by World War 1. He was 
active in college sports and YMCA 
activities while at college. At pres­
ent he is an honorary member of 
Scabbard and Blade, faculty ad­
visor to APO arid advisory secre­
tary to ODK.
Retreat Planned
Present plans call for the cele­
bration of the branch anniversary 
throughout the present school 
year, until the Cook’s Forest re­
treat planned for this spring,
With a fine past record and an 
ambitious plan for the future, the 
student “Y” under executive sec­
retary Davis are certainly accom­
plishing their purpose, “to serve 
the men of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, regardless of need, in 
every possible, helpful and practi­
cal way ...”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TAMANWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
SPORTSCOPE
By
Fred Lunt
Carnegie Gridders Face 
Davis & Elkins In Opener
The two recent moves made by Student Council are, to 
say the least, steps in the right direction. Certainly the stu­
dent governing body has discovered an avenue down which 
it can travel towards the ultimate goal of improving school 
spirit and support of the football team by the students.
As most upperclassmen recognize, pep rallies in the past 
have been lacking both in planning and enthusiasm. This 
lack has not been due, however, to any fault of the cheer­
leaders. Undoubtedly, this group has been more than willing, 
and has devoted a great deal of both time and effort towards 
conducting adequate rallies. The job has just been too big 
for such a small group.
This year pep rallies will be under the supervision of the plans 
and programs committee of Council, which will assign the con­
ducting of rallies to organizations both willing and able to1 present 
a suitable program. From all indications, the new plan is produc­
ing results, since arrangements for the first rally of the season 
point towards a more complete and interesting rally than we have 
seen since our arrival at CIT.
In addition to the usual bonfire, band music, and cheer- 
leading, present plans include having Bill Brant of KDKA 
as master of ceremonies, a portable loud speaker system, and 
coach Eddie Baker and captain Nick Simcic present to make 
a few remarks to the students. Certainly the latter two ad­
ditions to the program have been conspicuously absent from 
past rallies. We sincerely believe that thé presence of the 
coaches and players can provide that extra spark that ignites 
the fire commonly called school spirit.
With such notable additions to the program at pep rallies, it 
Is difficult to believe that an increase in attendance will fail to re­
sult. It is hoped and expected that such an increase in students 
present will carry over to the following day at Forbes Field. Here 
once again Student Council» through its special committee, has ar­
ranged to have the best seats reserved for Carnegie students. Pri­
marily this arrangement is designed to create better and mor£ 
.unified cheering at games, certainly one of the most apparenf*meas- 
urements of school spirit.
We would like to make one suggestion in regard to gain­
ing better cheering at games. If a portable loud speaker 
system could be installed in front of the Tartan cheering 
section, it would eliminate the difficulty in- understanding 
the cheerleaders and result in presentation of better cheers.
Although both of these innovations provide the improvements 
necessary to re-establish adequate support of the team, it is once 
again up to the students to assure the success of the program.
Lou Fougere
Veteran Skibo End
Soccer Team 
Shows Promise 
In Early Drills
Although the recent rainy spells 
have cut short much of the valua­
ble practice time, Coach Patrick 
O’Connor has had"a chance to get 
in several workouts with his 1950 
soccer squad.
In spite of the loss of several 
able players from last year’s team, 
a group of veterans, lead by Cap­
tain Jack Burrey, has given every 
indication that C1T can expect a 
successful season from its soccer 
squad.
Early practices have shown that 
such returning stalwarts as Bur­
rey, Ray Jenkins, Bob Lipp, Barry 
Wartenberg, and Fred Richards 
will again give a good deal of op­
position to the enemy teams. These 
men, along with several very 
promising freshmen, should form 
the nucleus of a hard fighting Ski­
bo team.
According to Coach O’Connor, 
the early practices have been held 
mainly with the idea of drilling on 
[Continued on page 6]
1950 Football Eo§ter
NaNamePos.Wt.Ht.CourseHome Town
57Arbanas, WilliamB18761"Elee. Eng. ’53Greenville,' Pa.
58Blumfcldt, W. GerardHB180510"Mech.^Eng. ’53Pittsburgh, Pa.
Í0*Broiïrman, JackQB168511"Music ’53Pittsburgh, Pa.
22*DeGiovanni, August Jr.B1555’4"Architecture ’51Mt. Lebanon, Pa.
12?Dissen, GilbertFB18051014"Civil Eng. ’53New Castle, Pa.
15«Dodson, Albert E.B1786'2"Civil Eng. ’53Pittsburgh, Pa.
29 'Dougherty, Robert W.E1906'2"Chem. Eng. ’51Pottsville, Pa.
11Fahey, WilliamFB168510"Elee. Eng. ’53Pittsburgh, Pa.27•Fougere, LouisE1806Aero. Eng. ’51Sagamore, Mass.49Freeman, Clyde B.C2086'Mech. Eng. ’52Bradford, Pa.20Fiiellgraf, CharlesC1906'1"Elee. Eng. ’53Butler, Pa.
42*Galanda, JosephT21061"Music ’53Marianna, Pa.26Guenther, Wayne F.E2046'Print. Adm. ’54Clairton, Pa.32•Haney/Thomas P.FB175511"Elee. Eng. *51Emsworth, Pa.45*Holtz, QuentinQB180510''PhysicS ’52Hastings, Pa.54Kaye, JohnE177510''Mech. Eng. ’53Pittsburgh, Pa.33Kelton, Charles F.C1906'V/>"Architecture ’54Pittsburgh, Pa.28Krotec, Lawrence M.c179510"Elee. Eng. ’53 «Pittsburgh, Pa. «30*Lange, HansT18061"Metal. Eng. '52Pittsburgh, Pa.35*Luchok, John -HB1806'Meta). Eng. ’52Richeyville, Pa.44*Magnifico, John J.E1906'1"- Printing '51Flushing, N. Y.39Neaman, Sanford F.C2206'Architecture '55Pittsburgh, Pa.24Norton, JamesG1805'8"Elee. Eng.. ’51Erie, Pa.50*Oberg, Arne R.FB1675'8V6"Ind. Admin. ’52Pittsburgh, Pa.53Odeh, Robert E.T2206'Ind. Admin. *52Akron, Ohio17Oxley, JosephG1365'6"Chem. Eng. ’52San Antonio, Texas14Pakan, WilliamHB1605'8"Printing '53Duquesne, Pa.34Pakos, Richard S.E1956'Chem. Eng. ’54Lorain, Ohio51Pandick, Peter G.G170510"Printing ’54Fanwood, N. J.23Peoples, Paul L.B195>'11"Ind. Admin. ’54Big Run, Pa.47Reuther, Robert W.T1776'Mech. Eng. ’53Wheeling, W. Va.25Rubin, RaymondHB .165511"Mech. Eng. '53Elmwood Park, 111.38Rusnak, George A.G228511"Elee. Eng. *52Whitaker, Pa. %21Sherhter, IrvingHB1485'7"Painting & Des. *53. Pittsburgh, Pa.16Shermeyer, RaymondG1485'6"Drama *52Braddock, Pa.19*Simcic, Nicholas F/GB175511"Elee. Eng. ’51Pittsburgh, Pa.43*Stahle, ClydeT18361 H*Mech; Eng. ’53Greensburg, Pa.40?StartzelJ, DaleHB175510"Aero. Eng. *53Sprankle Mills, Pa.41Vodenichar, JamesG1685'8"E/ec. Eng. '53Sharon, Pa.36•'Whitenight, HermanG1806'Paint. & Des. '53Munhall, Pa.18
31
'Wilson, Frederick A. 
•Wiseman, Floyd
E
G
180
190
61"
511"
Elee. Eng. ’52 
Ind. Admin. *51
McKeesport, Pa. 
Monessen, Pa.44 Leaman, Theodore R. 
-Returning lettermen.
QB1655'73/2"Ind. Mgmt. ’52Pittsburgh, Pa.
High-Scoring Senators 
Boast Two Victories
Next Saturday afternoon at Forbes Field the Skibos will open 
their 1950 football schedule when they play host to the gridders 
from Davis and Elkins.
This will be the third game of the year for the Senators, who 
? have already recorded victories 
over Concord College (25-13) and
Rally
Giant Football 
Set For 
Friday Night
Baker, Simcic To Talk 
Tt Students; Bill Brant 
Master of Ceremonies
The ’50 football season opens 
with a bang next Friday evening 
at 7:45 in the gym with the pre- 
Davis & Elkins game pep rally. 
The Kiltie band will be there, 
freshmen WILL be there, coach, 
team representatives, and even 
KDKA’s Bill.Brant to make the 
big evening.
Fans will follow the Kilties 
down Margaret Morrison street to 
Forbes, along Forbes, up More- 
wood, around the fraternity 
houses, and out on to the Cut. 
A huge bonfire will greet the 
crowd as it comes in from the 
sheet parade. At the ^ fire gather­
ing, MC’ed by Bill Brant, coach 
Baker and football squad captain 
Nick Simcic will say a Cew words 
in behalf of the fellows of the 
‘front line.’
A new cheer, known., only by 
cheerleaders and freshmen, will be 
unveiled to the upper class folks 
by the ace Skibo encouragement 
criers.
In the event of rain, the cheer­
leaders will- not burn . down the 
gym; the program will be held 
sans fire inside.
Added Note: Freshmen are urg­
ed to attend since this is one of 
the official functions that requires 
the presence of all dink-wearers.
Bethany College (26-25).
In their previous games the 
Maroon and White gridders have 
shown a great deal of spirit and 
hustle. The prevailing sentiment is
Floyd Wiseman
Starting Fourth Season
that the men of D and E will be 
a tough team to beat.
The entire Senator squad is 
looking forward to a great im­
provement over last year’s record 
when they dropped the first six 
games and then won the remain­
ing two.
The sparkplug of the team is 
their stellar quarterback, Andy 
Gussie, who has been rated by 
many observers as a ball handling 
wizard. Gussie is fast, shifty, and 
he has a bag of deceptive tricks 
that fit well into the T-formation 
that the Maroon and White use.
The Senator’s backfield has a 
lot of speed but not much weight.
[Continued on page GJ
STUDENT TICKETS NOW AT 50% DISCOUNT
"MAY BEEGLE CONCERTS"
551-52 UNION TRUST BUILDING
SEASON — 10E0-51 — SIX NOTABLE EVES. — SYRIA MOSQUE
SAT., OCT. 14
OPERA "LA BOHEME"
SAT., FEB. 24
ARTUR RUBINSTEIN
TUUBS., DEC. <
ROYAL PHIL. ORCH. 
OF LONDON
Sih Thomas Beecham, Cond.
SAT., HAB. 3
BALLET RUSSE 
DE MONTE CARLO
SAT., JAN. 13
VIENNA CHOIR BOYS
SAT., A?RII. V
KIRSTEN FLAGSTAD
Special Student Kate Sale Now On at 
"MAY BEEGLE OFFICES". 552 Union Trust Bldg.
Prices—4» Events—$3.90, $5.85, $7.80, $8.45 (Ind.. Tax)
To Secure bovc Rates. Present Your Indentidealion Card
The Church ©I The Redeemer
EPISCOPAL 
5700 Forbes Street
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion ................................................................. 8:30 A. M.
Family Service and Church School ............................. 9:30 A. M.
Morning Prayer and Sermon ...........................................11:00 A. M.
TECH CANTERBURY HOUSE 
^5170 Margaret Morrison Street
Supper-Meeting every Sunday ............................................6:00 P. M.
Sunday Evening Vespers ......................................................7:30 P. M.
Compline—Wednesday Evenings .........................................9:30 P. M.
Holy Communion—Thursdays................................................7:30 P. M.
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950TAIWANPage 5
Baker and Hirsh berg 
Lead Tartan Gridders
Former ZJ. of Pittsburgh Athletes
Bolster CIT Hopes For Success
Dr. Eddie Baker^ was no stranger to Carnegie Tech when he 
took over the head coaching position last year and promptly proceeded 
to lead the Tartans to a winning season.
While an undergraduate at Pitt’s dental^ school, Coach Baker 
starred on Coach Jock Suther-*---------------—--------------------:___________
land’s football squads and also on 
7 Doc Carlson’s basketball teams. 
He was Pitt's quarterback from
1928 to 1930.
It was during this time that he
quarterbacked the great team of 
. 1929 into the Rose Bowl for the 
annual New Year’s Day classic, 
He also served as captain of the 
football squad in 1930.
His senior year at Pitt in 1931 
he also had the honor of being 
named as captain of the basketball 
squad. From the time of his grad­
uation until 1937, when he first 
came to Carnegie Tech, Eddie 
Baker served as backfield coach 
under Jock Sutherland.
In 1937 he came to Carnegie 
Tech as assistant coach under Bill 
Kern. -In 1940 he was appointed 
head coach at Carnegie where he 
remained until 1942 when he went 
into the Navy. During the war he 
again had .the opportunity to work 
with Bill Kern when he helped 
him develop one of the strongest 
service football teams on the Pa­
cific coast.
Nowadays Dr. Baker divides his 
time between the football field 
and his dental offices. One of his 
major assets is his ability to com­
mand the respect and loyalty of 
all o'f his players. His criticism is 
never due to anger or disgust, but 
rather it is always constructive 
and to the point.
Another important cog in ’ the 
CIT coaching staff is Coach Eddie 
Hirshberg who has the title of line 
: coach of the Skibo gridmen.
Like Dr. Baker, Coach Hirsh­
berg was also a former Pitt grid­
iron star and captain. He was the 
regular end for the Panthers from
1929 to 1931, and he captained the 
team in his senior year.
After his college days, he spent 
several years on the coaching staff
at his alma mater. He then spent 
several more years coaching, dur­
ing which time he worked at 
Scranton, Dartmouth* West Vir­
ginia and Yale.
His prowess as a lineman and 
his experience with both the sin­
gle wing and the winged-T make 
him a very valuable man to have 
on the CIT coaching staff.
Not only has Coach Hirshberg 
given the Tartans the advantage 
of his football knowledge but he 
has also given the linemen the 
source of hustle and determination 
that they needed.
BuddyOverend 
Misses Opener
CIT Athletic Director 
Undergoes Operation
Clarence (Buddy) Overend, Di­
rector of Intercollegiate Athletics 
at Carnegie, will not be present at 
the Plaid's opening game against 
Davis and Elkins this Saturday. It 
will mark the first Tartan football 
game that he has missed, since 
1923, and the first opener since 
1919.
Mr. Overend, undoubtedly the 
most ardent Carnegie football en­
thusiast, entered Presbyterian Hos­
pital last Sunday for treatment of 
ailing kidney. He will not only 
miss the season opener but also 
the Oct. 7 game with Bethany
Mr. Overend has been in attend­
ance at every Skibo gridiron bat­
tle, whether at home or away, for 
the past 27 years, a record that 
few, if any, persons in the country 
can match.
Sports Headlinerby Ferguson
* THE TARTANS 
WILL B£ OUt 1*0 
IMPROVE tAST 
SrASONf RECORD 
OP M-J - i WHfK» 
TH*V TACKLE 
DAO IS -ELWIMSAr FoRee-s Fieio
OK) S6P'*. JO,
THE MAIN REASON TOR TECHS 
HtCH GRIDIRON HOPES IN 19&0 
IS THE 8R 111 ANT CO WHiNG OF 
DR*t DDlfBAKE R , FORMER 
PlTT'GRCAT UNDER ilOCK'" 
SUTHERIAWD1926,23,30.
toore HIRSH8ER&
HIPSHBER6S EXPERIENCE 
WITH BOTH THE SINGLE 
WING AND THE VIN6ED-T 
MAKE HIM AN IMPORTANT 
ASSET ON COACH BAKERS 
STAFF.
________ _ _______Fe PCOSO*
Wi «S?
.wM* ^onbo* 
owl _ had
^/^-,ical scor'
Rose
¦es?
of *>is
• wh*re mlDU.h by >'9
feree '
.w-.r;ball?bowl^S P
had Y»'
You'll find the answers 
to these and many other 
sport facts in the new 
1950-51 Sports Show 
Book.
Send for your 
copy today
IT'S FREE!
A. G. Spalding & Bros., Dept. NC 
161 Sixth Avenue 
New York 13, N. Y.
Please send me a free copy oí the 1950-51 Spalding 
Sports Show Book by return* mail.
Skifoos Defeat Duquesne Frosh 
As Offense And Defense Click
Simcic, Schectar, Oberg Tally On Long Runs;
Forward Wall Checks Duke Running Attack
Coach Eddie Baker’s Tartan gridmen showed explosive scor­
ing power and a much improved defense last Saturday morning as 
they rolled to a 20-0 victory over the Duquesne Freshmen. The 
Skibos scored early in the first quarter and were never seriously 
threatened.
Rule Changes
Mr. David See has announc- 
cd that all managers must pick 
up a copy of the new intra­
mural football rules in the in­
tramural office as soon as pos­
sible.
The revisions in the rule- 
book concern the lengths of 
the playing fields, due to the 
building of the parking lot on 
the cut, and new rules on 
, blocking.
A Duquesne fumble set up 
initial Plaid score. With the Scots 
in possession on the visitor’s 25 
yard line, captain Nick Simcic 
faded back to pass but, with nc 
receivers available, the fleet-foot­
ed halfback evaded the onrushing 
enemy linemen and scampered 
down the right sideline for thi 
score. • ' ,
Midway through the second pe- 
riod the Dukes executed their only 
sustained drive of the game, going 
to the Tartan’s 15-yard line be­
fore being stopped.
Carnegie promptly worked the 
ball back to midfield, from where 
little Irv Sheehter took the .ball on 
a handoff from quarterback Jack 
Brourman, slanted off his own left 
tackle, cut to the sideline, and out­
ran the entire Duquesne team to 
the goal line.
The two teams battled on even 
terms during the second half until, 
with five minutes remaining to be 
played, the Skibos counted with 
their final TD. With the ball on 
the Dukes’ 20-yard line, fullback 
Arne Oberg started wide to his 
left, cut back over left tackle, 
shook-off three would-be tacklers 
and crossed the goal line standing 
up. It was the' best exhibition of 
broken field running of the game.
Gil Dissen added two extra 
points but a bad pass from center 
spoiled his attempt for the other.
Led by veteran Floyd Wiseman, 
the Tartan forward wall kept the 
Duquesne running attack well 
throttled during most of the game. 
Ted Leaman,. recently returned 
from the Marines, led the Plaid's 
pass defense, heretofore one of the 
noticeably weak spots of the team.
Nick Simcic suffered a sprained 
ankle in the fourth quarter but is 
expected to be ready for the open­
er this Saturday.
OBERG ON TOUCHDOWN JAUNT
Carnegie fullback, Arne Oberg, Is pictured above on his way 
to scoring the Plaid’s final touchdown against the Duquesne Frosh 
last Saturday. Although apparently about to be downed, Oberg 
shook-off liis tackier, along with two others, and kept on going over 
the goal line.
Cross Country Team Improves; 
John Cooper Named Captain
Coach Guy Halferty’s Carnegie Teen harriers held their first 
outdoor workout in Schenley Park Friday after preliminary work­
outs in the Bowl and gym.
Coach Halferty, while noncommital about season prospects,-is 
fairly optimistic. From last year’s*-
squad five lettermen returning: 
John Cooper, Bob Stackhouse, Joe 
McElhaney, Bob Carman, and Bill 
Peth.
Little John Cooper, the diminu­
tive man with the big stride, has 
been elected captain of this year’s 
team. He, with Stockhouse and 
Carman, has been particularly 
promising in practice this fall.
Among the new men who have 
looked good are Bill Bloom, trans­
fer student from Geneva, Ronald 
Campbell, Dave Douglas, Bill Dra­
per, BilL Murtland. and Allan
Hays, from Mt. Lebanon’s cham­
pionship team of last year.
Though practice has started anc! 
•formal tryouts are scheduled for 
Sept. 29, there is still time for 
anyone, freshman or upperclass­
man, who is interested in cross 
country to contact Coach Halferty. 
Men with previous experience aro 
especially welcome.
The Tartan harriers’ first meet is 
scheduled for 11:45, Saturday, Oct. 
7, with Jeanette. The meet is to be 
held on'the Schenley Park 'course. 
This marks the 15th annual meet­
ing of the two teams..

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TAIWANWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
Shown above arc (wo scenes of Carnegie gridiron action dur­
ing 1949, scenes that TarlaflP football coach Dr. Eddie Baker hopes 
will occur even fore frequently curing the coming season. Halfbacks 
Nick Simcic and Johnny Luckock are pictured breaking away for 
long gains against Plaid opponents during Carnegie's first winning 
season in a decade. These two fleet-footed backs are again slated to 
do the majority of the ball-carrying this year. Both are beginning 
Ihcir third season for (he Skibcs. With the addition of Jack Brour- 
man and Arne Oberg, the Plaid will pose a potent scoring threat 
to any opponent.
Intramurals Begin 
With Games Today
Twenty-Three Teams Set To Battle
For Lead In Football Competition
‘ With the passing of Freshman Week the “Cut” was a scene of 
vivid activity last week as twenty-three fraternity and independent 
football teams prepared for their opening games.
The six man squads are scheduled to begin league competition 
this, evening as six teams of the^—
four leagues meet in the first 
games on the “Cut.”
This year the field will be ap­
proximately thirty-five yards 
wido^as compared with the thirty 
yard width of last year. Also a 
common goal line between fields 
one and two will be necessary as 
a result of the dirt piled at one 
end of the playing grounds.
A faster game is promised as 
new rules come into effect. In 
previous years an eight minute 
quarter was played with time out 
at every incomplete pass. This 
year the watch will be stopped 
only on official or called time out.
Each team is allowed two time 
out periods oi not more than two 
minutes during' each half. Games 
running into darkness and result­
ing in injuries required these 
changes. Also ankie wraps and 
physical exams will again oe nec­
essary for each player.
Other intramural sports loom in 
the near future as the program 
gains momentum. Entries for the 
Individual tennis tournament are 
due in on Sept- 29th and play be­
gins Oct. 2. Water polo entries will 
be due the week following the ten­
nis tournament, while volleyball 
is scheduled for early in Novem­
ber.
Six Lettermen 
Meet Cratsley; 
Drills Begin
Last Friday afternoon Coach 
Mel Cratsley met with the candi­
dates for the 1950-51 edition of the 
CIT basketball squad. He was 
greeted by the return of six letter­
men and a host of freshmen and 
several transfer students.
Hob McCullough, Connie Ham- 
mann, Tom Beck, Tom Craig, 
Hilary Holste, and Len Bianchi are 
the returning lettermen around 
whom Coach Cratsley must build 
his squad.
Also on hand was Bob Cowen, 
who was one of the sparkplugs of 
last year’s freshman team, and Bob 
Farbaeher, who was forced to 
leave school last year shortly after 
practice had begun.
There are high hopes for a very 
strong freshman team this year 
with about thirty freshmen out for 
the initial practice. Several of 
these men are well over six feet 
tail and the addition of height 
would be a welcome change to the 
Tech courtmen.
Another possible source of some 
good material is in the fact that 
several transfer students have also 
turned out for the season’s prac­
tices. Having already had some 
college basketball experience, 
these men may be valuable addi­
tions to Coach Cratsley's squad.
Friday's meeting was the initial 
meeting with the squad and se­
rious practices got under way on 
Monday. Coach Cratsley has an­
nounced that practices will be held 
every night during the week.
The Tartans first two encoun­
ters will both be away games. On 
November 29th the Skibos will 
travel to Steubenville, Ohio, where 
they will take on Steubenville Col­
lege. Then on December 1st they 
will go to Detroit where they will 
meet Lawrence Tech. Both of 
thesq teams were victims of the 
Tartan cage squad of last* year.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched 1« Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Becausc He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHEEDY WAS NEEDYI He was the worst neck on campus, 
and everybody looked down on him the minute they spotted 
his messy hair. Poor Paul was gonna zoo'somebody until he 
Herd about Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now, he’s head and shoulders 
above every guy at school! Non-alcoholic Wildroot with Lan­
olin keeps hair neat and well-groomod.all day long. Relieves 
annoying dryness, removes loose, ugly dandruff. So don’t over­
look Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Necks time you visit the 
nearest drug or toilet goods counter, get a bottle or tube of 
Wildroot. And giraffe your barber for professional applications. 
For a generous trial supply, free, send this ad with your name 
and aduic&s to Dept. DC, Wildroot Co., Inc., Buffalo 11, N.Y.
^ of $27 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y. 
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo J1, N. Y.
First week football competition: 
Field No. 1 
Sept. 26—TX-Citcom
27—DU-PK
28—ASCE-PiKA 
Oc?t. 2—SAE-Neuman Cl.
Field No. 2 
Sept. 26—Sr. CE-Dorm D.
27—BSR-Emanon
28—SN “B”-Greatest 
Oct. 2—ATO-Raiders
Field No. 3 
Sept. 26—SN “A”-DTD 
27—KS-TDP
29—Arch-Emanon
Varsity Soccer
[Continued from page 4] 
the basic fundamentals of the 
game. This coming week, however, 
the team will get in some rugged 
scrimmages. If they get a little as­
sistance from the weather, the 
Tartan booters should be in top­
flight form for the opening game 
with Frostburg on Oct. 14.
Davis-ElUiris
[Continued from page 4]
Coach Ace Federovich has been 
drilling his team on the idea of 
employing their speed an*d break­
away ability to the best advantage.
Unlike Coach Eddie Baker’s 
Tartan gridders, the Senators have 
had very little trouble from the 
old jinx of injuries. The Senators 
are in excellent shape and they 
should be able to give a very good 
accounting of themselves.
The Tartans have also looked 
very impressive in their scrim?*, 
mages’to date. With the exception 
of one or two members, the squad 
is at full strength and ready for 
next Saturday’s encounter.
A fast backfield, composed of 
Nick Simcic and John Luchok at 
halfbacks, Arne Oberg at fullback, 
and probably Jack Brourman at 
quarterback will be the major 
Ski bo threat to enemy defenses.
The line is Dr. Baker’s main 
headache with the starting lineup 
including only two linemen who 
have had much experience. Led by 
Lou Fougere and Floyd Wiseman, 
the Tartan line, although unex­
perienced, will be a strong and 
aggressive outfit.
The probable starting lineups 
for Saturday’s game will be:
CIT
StahleWiseman
Shermeyer
Davis and Elkins
Kuchar
JackMarcinkoweyHeishmanWaldenGussieFugateKilDeOrrison .
• FRANK MEN’S WEAR
5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
r~SUCCESS FORMULA ... ON CAMPUS OR <
Arrow Gordon Oxfords
Easy formula . . . that never misses! Button- 
down shirts are of crisp white oxford-, San- 
forized-labeled, of course. All silk, striped 
repp ties knot and drape to perfection. See 
them now at your favorite Arrow dealer’s.
* Good Grooming shirts *3.95 lies $2
ARROWSHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing- and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Comer Forbes and Atwood St. Oa

---------------------------------------------------

^WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950TAIWANPage-7
Found Around Campus .
Fine Arts Panels 
Display Unusual; 
rBut Go Unnoticed
The artistic detail of the interior 
of Fine Arts building is a subject 
that few students investigate. 
Even the doors feature intricate 
and sometimes unusual art work.
For instance, each door of the 
Little v Theater and Exhibition 
Room contains a wood panel sym­
bolizing one of the arts. Yet, how 
many students have given them 
more than a casual glance as they 
P passed through the hall?
The unusual thing about these 
wood panels lies not in the central 
design but rather in the tiny “ad­
libs” that the artist inscribed in 
the wood. The carver, Mr. J. Mc­
Kinney, certainly had a whimsical 
mind. After whittling the tradi­
tional musicians* symbols on one 
panel, the harp, bagpipes, drums, 
clarinet and music scrolls, he add­
ed a munute postscript, an old 
.^/fashioned, horn-type Victor pho­
nograph.
However, the artist was in a 
more serious frame of mind while 
he was working on the drSfrna 
panel. No ad libs are depicted 
along with the theater masques, 
dagger, Shakespearean soliloquy, 
and jester.
Again, the whimsical mood re-
Panel Expert At Work
Ralph Drichell Inspects Detail Of Door ¦
turned as McKinney whittled 
away on the painters’ panel. Be­
side the easel- and brushes and 
pallette with intertwining leaves 
is an object which to the artists’ 
mind may symbolize the plight of 
a landscape painter caught in the 
rain. This object is an umbrella.-
Sculptors are remembered in the 
panel depicting two figures, one 
posing and the other chiseling on 
a statue.
While he was working on the 
panels, McKinney lived in the ar- 
chitct’s office situated where the 
faculty dining room is now lo­
cated. Living withJMcKinney were 
his mascots, a pigeon and several 
cats.. The cat and the pigeon are 
two “extras” whittled into the ar­
chitecture panel. Another ad lib 
on this panel is the figure ,of a 
draftsman smoking a fuming pipe;
[Continued on page 11)
Student Council Holds 
First Meeting of Year
Art Christopher Is New President; 
Discussion Held on Class Officers
Carnegie’s S t.u d e n t Council^“ 
members dug right info the pile of 
urgent business at their first meet­
ing last Wednesday. After a visit 
from the Dean of Students and his 
two assistants, the Councilmen 
discussed the sponsoring of pep
Tartan Meeting
There will be a business 
meeting of all students who 
filed cards with the Tartan 
this Friday at 8:00 p. m. The _ 
meeting will be devoted to 
orientation of new members to 
Tartan style of reporting and 
production' methods. It will 
only last one-half hour..
The Tartan is still in need 
of more reporters—both news 
and sports, as well as feature 
writers. If you would like to 
gain added experience in 
writing, please attend Friday’s 
meeting.
It's easy! It's fun! No box tops to send! No essays 
to write! Just write a simple four-line jingle, and 
you may make $25! Start today!
Write a "Happy-Go-Lucky” jingle, like those you see on 
this page, based on some phase of college life. If your jingle 
is selected for possible use in Lucky Strike advertising, we 
- will pay you $25 for the right to use it and your name in 
ouradvertisirig. Start today. "Happy-Go-Luckies” will soon 
be running in your paper. Send in your jingles—as many 
as you like—right away, and $25 can be yours pronto if 
yoii jingle is chosen. Be the first to write a jjingle in your 
school. Watch this paper for more “Happy-Go-Luckies.”
READ THESE SIMPLE INSTRUCTIONS
a„d
Enjoy truly -fine tobacco! Enjoy 
perfect mildness and rich taste I
Î. Write your “Happy-Go- 
Lucky” four-line jingle on a plain 
piece of paper, or postcard, and 
send it to Happy-Go-Lucky, 
P.O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.
Be sure your name, college and 
address are included — and that 
they are legible.
2« Every student of any college 
or university may submit jingles.
IS/MFT-luety Strike
f/teans Fine Tobacco
rallies and a new organization of 
class officers. . .
Explaining the administration’s 
“chain of command,” Dean Dickin­
son told Council members that the 
rules in the White Book were 
adopted by the Trustees as their 
responsibility to the Common­
wealth of Pennsylvania for the 
operation of the school. Among 
these rules is the power for Coun­
cil to budget and regulate all 
school activities. He insisted that 
the governing body read the book 
and learn ^ all its powers and du­
ties. v
Keep Control
He also warned the Council not 
to wash its hands of many campus 
jobs because they are turned over 
to another body for execution, but 
it should keep actual control of all 
activities andgust delegate groups 
to do the work. In regard to the 
new setup in the Dean’s office, . 
Dean Dickinson promised, “The 
new arrangement should promote 
rather than complicate Council’s 
activities.”
President Art Christopher .dis­
covered that some of his commit-, 
tee chairmen, appointed last 
spring, had hot returned to. school 
or Council. Due to that fact not 
all the committees were function­
ing -last week.
No More Senate
However Dolly Mitchell, chair­
man bf the class organization com­
mittee, presented several pro­
posals for the class officers. First, 
the newly elected officers would 
be installed in front of Student 
Council by the Council president. 
Second, the officers of all the 
classes will compose an officers' 
council that will eventually 
handle all the class organization 
activities.
Leonard Smollen wondered 
what would happen to the MMCC 
Senate when the officers’ council ' 
became effective. It was pointed 
out from the by-laws that the Sen- ' 
ate was to be disbanded when an 
inter-school officers’ council was 
formed.
Tables Turned
Coming to the meeting with the 
intention of asking Council’s help 
in sponsoring this fall’s pep ral­
lies, Bud Pellegrini, cheerleader 
captain, found out from the Dean’s 
talk that it was really Council’s 
job to handle the rallies, so he of­
fered his help.
He suggested that one campus 
group sponsor each one of the ral­
lies, and the program be well 
¿enough planned to draw a crowd. 
The most needed factor for a rally 
he said, "is complete co-ordination 
between cheerleader, band, spon­
sor, and student body.”
Get Together
Tartan'sports editor Fred Lunt 
suggested that there be definite 
seating arrangements for CIT stu- ' 
dents ,at Forbes Field during the 
home games. He wanted to see 
again those days when Carnegie 
could outyeli Pitt anytime.
Paul Stettler’s plans and pro­
grams committee was put in 
charge of the rally arrangements.
Tour Ï.D. CARD Means
15% OffOn Jewelry 
Watch Repairs
TIMESHOP
3623 Fifth Ave.SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenoeat Atwood St.)
RENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
m
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds as Low :
$295
American Typewriter Co. 
irwood st."' CO. 1-1019

---------------------------------------------------

Page STAWAIVWEDNESDAY, SEPT.. 27, 1950*-
New Dining Hall
Recent Morewood .Addition
Building Progam
[Continued from page I] 
Morewood Gardens. The sixtyv 
apartment building was originally 
bought for one million dollars, 
initial furnishings and redecora­
tion took about $450,000, and the 
cost of recent additions make up 
the remainder of the sum. The 
dormitory now has accomodations 
for 430 women students.
Parking difficulties may soon be 
lessened with the completion of 
the new lot located on the upper 
level of the cut. There will be 
space for approximately as many 
cars as are now accomodsted in 
the parking lot behind Skibo.
Rain and damp weather have 
delayed work on the lot since the 
ground must.be fairly hard to take 
the weight of the heavy irachin- 
ery necessary to spread the gravel. 
It is hoped, however, that the lot 
will become available for use in 
the very near future.
IA Stalled
Plans for construction oC the 
new building to house th'c School 
of Industrial Administration have 
suffered a temporary setback. 
Though it was estimated that the 
structure would cost about one '¦ 
million dollars, the lowest bid re­
ceived by the August 15 deadline 
was about $400,000 above this fig­
ure.
Steps are being taken to attempt 
to bring the building in line with 
its budget, for, ' of the original 
$6,000,000 Mellon grant, only $1,- 
000,000 was earmarked for con­
struction purposes. In addition to 
these major undertakings, this 
summer saw the remodeling of the 
alumni, public relations, and pro­
vost’s offices, as well as the total 
renovation of the book store. In­
stallation of the new lighting con­
trol panel for the drama depart­
ment was completed, as was the 
redecoration of the Carnegie Inn
CRISPER, CLEANER 
DRAWINGS... use
Headquarters for Fraternity & 
Sorority Supplies
Oakland Hardware
3G0G FORBES ST.
MA. 1-0923
EXPERT REPAIRS
Radios, Phonographs, Appliances, Television 
Soles and Service
LEWIS RADIO
ELECTRIC CO.
123 Oakland Ave. - MA. 1-4211 
Bring four Radio 
Problems To Us
2ß Years Experience 
At Your. Service
LUTHERAN
STUDENTCENTER
Sundays 11 A.M. Worship 
10 A.M. Bible Class 
6 P.M. Youth Supper 
2nd & 4th Sun. 
Headquarters: Lutheran 
Students’ Association. 
Tuesday & Friday Meetings
ST. ANDREW'S WELCOMES YOU!
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Bowling
\FTERNOON, SAT. * SUN 
BOWLING
407-409 CRAIG ST.
SC. 1-9307
DRAWING PENCILS
j Turn in consistently neat, accuralc draw- 
! ings with Venus Drawing Pencils. They 
; hold their points and give you opaque
• lines for shatp, clear reproduction.
j SMOOTH The lines are uniform in
I weight and tone because the clay and
• graphite in Venus Drawing Pencils are 
; blended evenly in the Colloidal* process.
| STRONG Venus Drawing Pencils 
i are Pressure^Proofed* which means that 
i the lead is bonded to the wood. Adds 
ixtra strength to needle-sharp points.
: ACCURATE Your work is easier 
with Venus Drawing Pencils. Scientifi­
cally tested at each step of manufacture 
and uniformly graded inwall 17 degrees.
. For better results, use Venus Drawing 
Pencils with the green crackle finish. Buy 
Ibcm at your College Store.
FOR THIS HELPFUL 
INSTRUCTION BOOKLET!
Try Venus on your 
drawing board!
American Lead Pencil Co.
Hoboken, N. J. <Dc.-pl. CNP j).
* of "Skelchin.
Fraternity Pledges
[Contiuit'ed from page 3]
Don Domenick, Don Reed, Bill 
Jones. Jim Kelly, Tom Simons, 
John Strohm, Stanley Watt, Frank 
West, Bob Fallat, Bill Becker.
Delta Upsilon — Eugene O’Reil­
ly, Harry Lantz, Daniel Levin, 
John Peoples, Russell Paquette, J. 
Lawrence Walsh, Richard Bren­
nan, Hugh Young, James Weet, 
Jerome Wallace, Donald Newman, 
Richard Boschetto, Harry Sparks, 
Ronald Bugos.
Kappa Sigma — Dale Startzell, 
Douglas Mitns Jr., Charles Carroll, 
Thomas Craig, Harry Saro, Keith 
Riley, Dick Kendrick, Harvey 
Katz, Alfred Cerrito, Arthur 
Pringle III, Harry McCune, Walter 
Selavko, Lawrence Glavin, Ed­
ward Sauer', Richard Pakos, Paul 
Peoples, George Rusnak.
Phi Kappa — Joseph Ceo, John 
Black, Richard Englehart, Theo­
dore Janusz, Robert Settee, Carl 
Pavcick, "Wilbert Flans, Raymond 
Malburg, James Shenker, Joseph
Kebe, James Shaughnessy, John 
Najetich.
Pi Kappa Alpha — Charles 
Bateman, John Collins, Ralph 
Brischell, Bill Hurley, Dale Kirk- 
bride, Charles Lewis, Bill Prey, 
Newton Ruffing, Bob Steiger, Karl 
Theyer, Jack Armour, Carl Schuck, 
Wilm Donath, Gary Ledford, Skip 
Wargo, Tony Lowery, Phil Drew.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon — Joseph 
Bachman, Richard Campbell, Ned 
Clark, R. Anthony Cook, Bud 
Fagley, Robert Fahle, Juan Puja- 
das, George orde, Inaki Elguezabel, 
Leroy Thompson, Paul Conrad, 
Richard Sheafer, George Seitana- 
kis, Jack McKissick, Clay Bar­
ringer.
Sigma Nu — Paul Broome, Bill 
Bruening; Bob Samuelson, Paul 
Senio, Ken Haynes, Brinton 
Thompson, Skip Skinner, Ed Rose, 
Pete Hendick, Dick Hunt, John 
Delacio, George Clifford, Dave 
Dauglas, Phillip Morseberger,
Howard Schaeffer, Robert Knight, 
Bill Minck, David Shiras, Joseph 
Cingraile, Robert Knepper, Bill 
Pakan, Dick Thompson, John 
Kablach, Ed Walsh, Ron Prothero, 
Bill Trotzman, Erwin Budde, Wal­
ter Morgan, George Bushy, Don­
ald Lundquist, Danny7 Thompson, 
Howard Harvey, Howard Warren, 
Amato Teta, Bill Merritt, Barry 
Shutterly. Jay Doyle, Kay Thomp-flp’ 
son.
Tau Delta Phi — Conny Adler, 
Barry Innerfield, A1 Cahen, Carl 
Finder, Jerry Seiner, Don Weaver.
Theta Xi — Lawrence Summer- 
ill, Arthur Motycka Jr., Gordon 
Rowe. Joseph Bersce, Jack; Seas, 
Richard Lynch, Bill' Mannell-' •
Patronize
Tartan
Advertizers
THEM Ml!
eaRsRv dFooRS challengesany other leading brandto suggest this test "
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF S
SMOKERS, who tried this test, \ ' » ^4 
report in signed statements that \
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
2-.. Light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thing—DON’T 
INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? 
Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
1. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS
Just fake a puff—DON'T INHALE —and 
s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through 
your nose. Easy, isn't it? And NOW...
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself.
Try this simple test. We believe that you, e too, will agree . 
Philip Morris is, indeed, America’s FINEST Cigarette!
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!nur MOIRI!!

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950TAfWA INPage iJ.
IT Drama Department Installs 
Electronic Stagelighting Panel
New Board Is One of Three in This Country; 
Successfully Cuts Time, Number of Operators
Carnegie’s Drama department will proudly present its newest 
gJ^ddition—a $30,000 electronic console control, the latest thing in stage 
Sighting—in its first production this fall. This installation, designed 
fby George C. Izenour, is one of three in this country, the other two
being at Yale University and in*----------------------------------------------------------
Ithe Goodman Theatre of the Art§ Institute of Chicago.
-This ,inew equipment requires 
only onfe' person to handle the 
||| lighting of an entire show. Even 
sp£ the' most complicated effects can 
|1| be handled-by two people.
|';j Can Be Preset
|J|) During the rehearsal when the 
Hi desired lighting effect is achieved, 
the individual, dials on each' of the 
|v| circuits in use are read and the 
$!§ results recorded. These record- 
ings are then transferred to a 
H preset panel, and by merely push- 
ing one button, the same effect 
|f can be duplicated.
With this control ten presets 
|| can be made at one time enabling 
^ any one of the effects to be 
,available, regardless of order or 
Mi' reuse, by pushing the right but- 
j tons.
' Also, it is possible to change 
from one lighting effect to an­
other by means of an automatic 
fa^er which can be set to make 
the change in predetermined 
times, varying from five seconds 
to ten minutes. In case there is 
a change in original plans, a hand 
fader is provided.
More Room 
This new console, being placed 
t>f( stage, also permits the wings 
of the stage to be free of the 
massive controls needed in the
Advertising Men
The Tartan business staff 
needs advertising and circula­
tion personnel. All interested 
students, especially freshmen 
and sophomores, are requested 
to attend the Tartan meeting 
on Friday, Sept. 29, at 7:30 in 
the Carnegie Union, or to con­
tact Morty Baker. (SC. 1- 
8851)
Good Grid Campaign 
Predicted By Students
Now that the first football game of the season is four days away 
students are beginning to think seriously about the possibilities oi 
another winning season. “What kind of a showing will our team 
make this year?” The optimism expressed by these students is an 
-----------------------  7 —. * encouraging sign that there, will
Citcom’s Frosli 
Mixer Proves 
Great Success
New Control Panel
Recent Drama Department Addition
past. Experience with the origi­
nal board shows that lighting time 
has been cut to one-fourth of that 
previously necessary.
In addition to the panel, two 
scene projectors are being in­
stalled in the Little Theatre. These 
identical projectors project koda- 
chrome slides on a screen back­
drop. Using the projectors, a
scene can be changed while action 
is taking place on stage by fad­
ing one projected backdrop into 
another.
Yale Inventor '
The inventor of both the panel 
and projectors, George Izenour, 
is a research associate at Yale 
University. There he holds the 
[Continued on page 11}
If Citcom Clan’s Freshman Mix­
er is any criterion, CIT commuters 
| are going to have a jolly social life 
this year. The first party, held last 
Friday in the Union, was a tre­
mendous success. Frank Beitel, 
president, promises to provide a 
larger meeting place if the crowds 
continue.
For the benefit of those who 
have not had an opportunity to 
join, the Citcom booth in Skibo 
will be open until Sept. 29. Cit- 
j comites at the booth will be very 
happy to answer any questions the 
freshmen may have concerning the 
campus and school activities.
Clanfellows interested in foot­
ball and bowling for intramural 
competition should notice the Cit­
com section of the Skibo bulletin 
board. Members, old and new, are 
asked to watch this board for an­
nouncement of thé first general, 
Clan meeting.
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
Only Chevrolet lets you make such a
... and at the lowest prices, too !
Choose between 
Standard Drive and
Combination.of Powerglide automatic rriin.smission and 105-h.p. engine op~ tumal on De Luxe models at extra cost
Choose between Slyleline 
and Fleetline Styling
- ?:r Vi* - K •
Choose between 
thè-Bel Air and thç Convertible
America's Best Seller. . . America's Best Buy!
SEE YOUR LOCAL CHEVROLET DEALER
Conveniently listed under “Automobiles” in yourlocal classified telephone directory
be an abundance Of “pep’ 
rallies and on the playing
at the 
field.
Frank McWilliams, senior: , *‘1
think the tean*. 
SSfe will have a. 
very successfui' 
season. My 
only prediction 
is what I've 
heard. We will 
win five and 
lose three. 1 
Ihink the school 
athletic policy 
is good; I don’t 
go in for heavy subsidy. But a 
school as large as this should play 
larger teams than Davis and Elk­
ins. It seems we are playing small 
teams strictly for the alumni so 
that we look good; we have a win­
ning team. We seem to be play­
ing teams that are below us.”
Joy Ostergaard, junior: "I think 
the team will 
win more than 
one half the 
games. But 
there are a lot 
of players gone 
this year. There 
is more inter­
est in football 
than there was 
before because 
of the winning 
season last year. The team 
shouldn’t play big teams if they 
are going to be sadly beaten, but 
I would rather see us play big 
teams.”
Paul Stettler, senior: “I would 
say we’ll have 
a 6-2 record but 
most likely it 
will be a 5-3 
score. Tech hay 
a good team 
and the best 
half-back in 
western Penn­
sylvania, Nick 
Simcic, is play­
ing on it. I’m 
looking for a great year with lots 
of football spirit on campus. This 
year the students entering Tech 
younger and have enthusiasm. 
They should increase the spirit 
and interest-in- football.”
Harriet Treon, sophomore: '*1
would say 
they’d win 
two - thirds of j 
the games this j 
year. We got a i 
good start last 
year and the , 
spirit will carry 
over into this 
year. Carnegie 
should have1 
compe titions 
with schools of our caliber. We 
have one of the leading colleges 
in the country scholastically; we 
should be athletically also. Our 
pep rallies have left me cold; 
they seem to lack spirit.”
Bob Dougherty, senior: "We’ve 
got a good 
chance to win 
all the games 
if the team will 
put forth a lit­
tle more effort 
than they did 
last year. You 
can’t predict 
how many 
games we'll 
win; if a team’s 
up they’re hard to beat. Pep ral­
lies mean a lot to a team. You 
don’t hear the cheers at games 
but you feel the attitude of stu­
dents on campus. All the team 
has confidence in itself and its 
coaches.” -
Again this week, the inquiring 
reporter found that school spirit 
is evident on campus. Enthusiasm 
and interest can mean much to a 
college in athletic matters.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TA4Sg>AftWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950#
Veterans Are Still Able To 
Regain Lost Loan Entitlementso
Veteran’s Administration Authorized By Act 
To Restore Loan-Righls Lost In Special Cases
Veterans Administration outlined conditions under which World 
War II veterans who have used their loan guaranty rights under 
the GI Bill may have their entitsemeni to V-A-guaranteed loans for 
homes, farms and business restored under certain special circum­
stances. * 4
The Housing Act of 1950 author­
ized V-A to restore the amount of 
lean guaranty entitlement used by 
a veteran to purchase property 
•which subsequently is taken over 
for public use, destroyed by fire 
or other natural hazard, or is “dis­
posed of because of other com­
pelling reasons devoid of fault on 
the part of the veteran/’
No Liability 
A further condition is that V-A 
must have been relieved of lia­
bility in connection with the gov­
ernment guarantee on the loan 
with no claim, having been made 
against it.
In defining “other compelling 
reasons,” V-A said it first must be 
shown that failure to restore the 
used entitlement would result in a 
^'substantial hardship” to the vet­
eran. Examples of conditions un­
der which restoration may be 
made were outlined as follows:
1. Resons of health, such as 
Where a home is disposed of be­
cause the type of dwelling or cli­
mate of the locality is injurious to
the veteran or a member of his 
family, as evidenced by a doctor’s 
certificate;
2. Employment reasons, such as 
loss of employment which requires 
removal to another city or town, 
or where the- veteran is trans­
ferred by his employer. In such 
cases V-A said the reason for 
moving must be one which could 
not have been anticipated at the 
time the property was purchased. 
Loss of temporary employment, 
or persons subject to an employ­
er’s rotation policy, as in the case 
of regular military personnel 
transferred periodically, do not 
qualify.
3. Such other reasons as V-A 
finds in individual cases to be 
“compelling,” where disposal of 
the property became a practical 
necessity due to factors over which 
the veteran had no control.
No Third Party
V-A emphasized that entitle­
ment cannot be restored where the 
veteran’s mortgage indebtedness is 
[Continued on page 11J
T echnical
Ta(ce advantage of this op­
portunity in student publica­
tions work. The Carnegie 
Technical will fill openings on 
its staff at a meeting this Sat­
urday, Sept. 30. Come up, at 
12:30 sharp, to the Technical 
office, 3rd floor Carnegie 
Union.
We have openings in adver­
tising, circulation, production, 
drafting, and typing, to name 
a few. Act this Saturday; stop 
up on your way to the game.
Tokyo Student 
in First Class 
Of IA School
Takehiko Matsuda from Tokyo, 
Japan, will be in the first regular 
class of the new graduate school 
of Industrial Administration, 
•which will formally open* its door 
this fall at CIT.
Matsuda, holder of a bachelor of 
engineering degree from Tokyo 
University and currently a gradu­
ate student there, intends to re­
turn after completing his studies 
in America and apply for a posi­
tion« on the faculty of Tok3ro Uni­
versity.
During World War II, Matsuda 
served in the Japanese navy.
I’
A
r1 - g§
"'V sfX,
SORORITY OF SERVICE
The girls who belong are calm, competent, considerate. 
Their job is to get your call through quickly and accu­
rately, wherever you want to go —day or night, any day 
of the week. And courtesy is their creed. They are the 
220,000 telephone operators of the Bell System.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
FOR
I USED\ TEXT BOOKS
«
A Few Steps 
Save You Dollars at
HEÄDLEE S BOOK STORE
(Student Book Exchange)
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
Ik m>$k¿its -mstukeflif ib Succj&nL 
0% OMÿ campus
i—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll 
(the college man’s staple diet). A "Manhattan,” of course.
Llssnge 
$3-65 =nd $3.95
-fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread 
collar.' Made by "Manhattan.” winch means perfect fit.
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of "Manhattan” shirts, ties, 
underweart pajamas, sportshirts, beachtvear and handkerchiefs.
HARVEY'S MEN'S SHOP
1IKADQUABTERS FOR MANHATTAN SJIIRTS IN SQUIRREL DIM
1707 MURRAY AVE.
Open Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Evenings 
PHONE JA. 1-3500

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950TAIWANPage 11
Veteans Loans Possible
[Continued from page 10] 
assumed by a third party, with 
V-A remaining liable on the loan 
guarantee. Also, restoration will 
be made but once for any veteran, 
except in very unusual circum­
stances.
Prior to the GI loan amend­
ments contained in the Housing 
Act of 1950, approy.ed April 20, an 
eligible veteran was. entitled to a 
V-A guarantee of' 50 percent of a 
real estate loan, up to a maximum 
guarantee of $4,000. For veterans 
wh.o^hav.^us.ed none of their loan 
^iMtlement, the Act 
raised the home lban guarantee to 
I percent of the loan, and a max­
imum of $7,500.
Still Eligible 
V-A safti that where a .veteran 
had used none of his loan guar­
anty entitlement other than that 
which is restored under the new 
provision, he will be considered 
as having used none of his loan
rights and, Iheretore, eligible for 
the higher guarantee.
Application for restoration of 
used entitlement should be made 
to the Loan druar^nty Officer of 
the V-A Regional Office which is­
sued the guarantee'' on the loan. 
A written statement should be 
submitted setting forth the rea­
sons for the request; details of 
of the damage, destruction, con­
demnation, loss or disposal of the 
property; the amount realized 
from the sale, condemnation award 
or insurance settlement and the 
dispositionmadespf it; and wheth­
er the property is to be restored.
Doctor’s Certificate 
In the case of requests based on 
reasons of health or employment, 
doctor’s certificate confirming 
the health factor, or a statement 
from the employer evidencing loss 
of employment or of transfer and 
the reason for it, should be sup­
plied.
Average Factor 
Rating Is 2.3964: 
Sororities Lead
Factor ratings recently released 
by the Dean’s office show a gen­
eral college average of 2.3964. The 
sorority sisters wound lip ahead of 
both the school average and the 
women’s average. With a rating of 
2.687 they rate .291 above the col­
lege average and .125 above the 
women’s average.
Alpha Epsilon Phi led the soror­
ities with 2.820. Delta Delta Delta, 
2.741; Chi Omega, .2.703; Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, 2.667; Delta Gam­
ma, 2.583; Kappa Alpha Theta, 
2.556; and Sigma Kappa, 2.341, fol­
low in that order.
It is expected that the break­
down in the men’s factors will be 
released by the Council of Fra­
ternity Presidents at the next 
meeting and will appear in the 
next issue of the Tartan.
Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests 
2...THE BLOW FISH
W ood-Carving
[Continued from page 7]
this may be a caricature of one of
the architects.
Since the College of Fine Arts 
has only five departments, the 
sixth panel is a carving of a tele­
scope, astral globes, scholars’ 
scrolls, triangle and clouds. The 
whittler perhaps believed this to 
be a symbol that philosophy was 
the binding force between the arts.
Many of the little ad Ubs have 
been removed from the panels be­
cause they were believed to be 
risque’. ^ Although, these panels 
were investigated carefully, per­
haps the observer overlooked a 
few of the postscripts.
Patronise 
Tartan 
< Advertisers
3-Hour Service 
On Dry Cleaning
ROUGH-DRY 
. LAUNDRY 
Washed and Dried
Same Day 
Service
SHIRTS
Washed and finished
CÄMPUS
CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.
New Courses 
Are Offered 
In Mathematics
The Department of Mathematics 
has added two new courses to their 
schedule this year. The first of 
these is a combination of Ad- 
I vanced Calculus and Functions of 
j a Complex Variable to be given in 
two semesters instead of the usual 
three. This course, S-269-270, is 
being taught by Dr. Moskovitz five 
hours a week and is worth 15 
units. It was added to the curri­
culum upon the suggestion of the 
electrical engineering and me­
chanical engineering departments.
The second course is S-205-286, 
Electrical Networks I and II. Ad­
vanced Calculus is a prerequisite 
for this course whicn will be a 
critical study of electrical net­
works from the viewpoint of top­
ology, algebra, and function the«- 
ory . This subject, worth nine 
unitsj will be taught by Associate 
Professor Duffin.
Several new courses will be of­
fered in the graduate school. 
These courses are fundamental 
courses in pure and applied math­
ematics. They include GS-31o-316f 
Boundary Value Problems of 
Wave Motion I and II, to be taught 
by Associate Professor Heins; GS- 
331-332, Algebraic* Geometry I 
and II, by Professor. Neelley; GS- 
355-356, Advanced ..Vibrations - ;I 
and IIj by, Professor¦ Srubel; and 
GS-397a-397b', Statistical Analysis 
I and II, by Associate Professor 
Olds.
New Panel
[Continued from :page 9] 
title of Associate Professor, ;and 
he is also lighting .control, con­
sultant for Century Lighting, Inc. 
of New York. The -electro'riic 
panel, which was four and; one- 
half-years in dèveiòpmentt-~was 
designed under a research; ¿gr^nt 
from the Rockefeller Foundation.
g»' Vi
^ *, -X- ..
'Shucks—I blew in when I should’ve blown out!
Xity the poor Piscis! He’s been making all those 
trick cigarette tests you’ve been reading about! He’s taken one puff of this 
? brand — one sniff of that.-A quick inhale of cigarette “A” — a fast exhale
of cigarette “B” — and he’s still confused! Seriously, isn’t the sensible way to 
test a cigarette to smoke pack after pack, day.after day?.
That’s the test Camel asks you to make —- 
the 30-Day Mildness Test. Smoke Camels — and
only Camels — regularly for 30 days. Your T-Zone 
(T for Throat and T-for Tastp)- is the real proving 
ground for any cigarette. After you’ve tried Camels
as your regular smoke, you’ll know why . . . ^
More People Smoke Coriiels
than any other tigarette!
In Nashville, Tennessee, there id 
always a friendly gathering o£i 
Vanderbilt University students at< 
the Vanderbilt Center on the cam« 
pus. And as in universities every« 
where, ice-cold Coca-Cola helpgj 
make these get-togelhers something 
to remember. As a refreshing pause 
from the study grind, or 011 a Satur* 
day night date—Coke belongs..
Ask for it either way ... both 
traSc-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY IY
© 1949, Th« Coca-Cola Cttnpok.«

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TAttPANWEDNESDAY,-SEPT. 27, 1950
Bulletin Board Promotions Are
A nnounced-By 
Tartan Staff
Engineer Receives Award
Clifford William. McCoy, a jun­
ior in metallurgical engineering at 
Carnegie Tech, has been awarded 
the Lewis E. Young award^for the 
year 1950-51.
The award is given by the Wom­
en’s Auxiliary of the American In­
stitute for Mining and Metallurg­
ical Engineers, and is presented in 
honor of Dr. Lewis E. Young, past 
president of the Institute.
Given on the basis of character 
and high scholastic achievement, 
this award will be given to a Car­
negie student every third year, 
with similar awards being given 
at Penn State and the University 
of Pittsburgh in the intervening 
years.
automotive developments an op­
portunity to hear' speakers from 
the industry and view films on re­
cent advances in the field of trans­
portation.
Membership is open to all en­
gineering students. Student mem­
bers are also entitled to attend the 
monthly meetings of the senior or­
ganization held at the Mellon In­
stitute.
Contest
$A£ Schedules Films 
At First Meeting, Oct. 3
Carnegie’s lecQnily formed 
chapter .of the Society of Automo- 1 
tive Engineers will hold its first I 
meeting ' cn Tuesday, Oct. .3, at • 
11:30 in IH 331. Two films will be : 
shown, sind there will be an op- ' 
portunity ior interested students; 
to join tlic organization.
SAE, one of Carnegie's newest i 
student groups, was organized last j 
spring in an effort to give under« 
graduates interested in current
The contest being sponsored 
by the Tartan to select a new 
flaghead for this year's paper 
closes this Friday night at 
11:00 p.m.
To answer many recent in­
quiries and to clarify the no­
tice in last week’s paper, “an 
entry suitable for reproduction 
purposes" is one submitted on 
white paper or board (prefer­
ably the latter), and finished 
in black India ink.
The Tartan will award $10 
to the designer of the winning 
entry' Announcement of the 
winner will be made in next 
week's Tartan.
Four promotions have been 
made by the Tartan editorial staff 
during the past week.
Richard C. Gilson, chief photog­
rapher during the past year, has' 
been appointed photography edi­
tor for the coming year. Gilson is 
a sophomore printing student and 
a member of Kappa Sigma frater­
nity.
Art Christopher, capable sports 
reporter for the past year, has 
been appointed assistant sports 
editor. Christopher, a senior elec­
trical engineer, is a member of 
Theta XL fraternity and is presi­
dent of Student Council.
Dave Goldsmith is the new ad­
vertising manager. A member of 
Tau Delta Phi fraternity, Gold­
smith is also a. photographer for 
the Tartan. He is a sophomore 
printer.
Another sophomore printing stu­
dent, John Tancill, has been ap­
pointed new proof editor. Tancill 
is a member of Kappa Sigma fra­
ternity.
Patronize Our Advertisers
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
Look no further for your laundry 
and dry cleaning needs
3 HOUR DRY (LEANING SERVICE
SAME DAY LAUNDRY SERVICE >
(Rough Dry—Washed ami Dryed)
SHIRTS
(Beautifully Washed and Pressed)
• • •
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET
(ONE BLOCK FROM THE CAMPUS)
VOL.4—N ö3NCAN—RENCG
WITH ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
BEFORE YOU SMOKE THEM
...you can.tell Chesterfields -will smoke milder,
because tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder.
AFTER YOU SMOKE THEM
...you have no unpleasant after-taste.
WHILE YOU SMOKE THEM you get more pleasure than any other cigarette can give you—that’s why millions of • smokers say: THEY SATISFY. '
PHOTOS TAKE» 
AT ïfXAS BNtV
