The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 17, February 17, 1981.Nobel Laureates visit CMU
.he largest convocation of American Nobel Laureates since 1962 assembled 
in Pittsburgh last week. Arrangements and planning by GMU brought over a dozen 
laureates to the city for a convention center dedication, a TV panel discussion and four 
speeches at CMU.
Seven laureates debated the future of their fields in a one and one half hour panel 
discussion taped by WQED. Moderator was H&SS Dean John Crecine. (story on page
5) Five laureates presented papers at the dedication of downtown’s David L. Lawrence 
Convention Center, (story on page 4) Four of the five laureates who spoke at the
convention center were also on campus last w'eek.
Arthur Kornberg
In 1959, Arthur Kornberg was appointed head of the department of Biochemistry at
Stanford University and awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine for his work on enzyme
based replication. He had lunch with students and faculty members of the Biology
and Chemistry departments, and spoke to about 200 people in Mellon Institute’s
auditorium. . , -continued on page 6Saul Bellow, Literature 1976
William Lipscomb, Chemistry 1976Arthur Kornberg, Physiology and Medicine 1959

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.____________
Against our will: Food Service plans for 1981—82
Food Service’s proposed contract plans are 
just that-proposed. Since nothing is definite at 
this point, we have the opportunity to respond 
to these plans. This is our response.
We do not like them. Not one bit. We cannot 
even state a preference for the two plans cur­
rently under consideration. They are both 
unfair and discriminatory.
Under one plan, students who live on cam­
pus (excluding houses and apartments) must 
pay a $50 fee. Now, this fee does endtle them to 
a whopping 13% discount on their Validine 
accounts, but they would have to install $450
into their accounts before breaking even 
through their discount. Food Service is techni­
cally optional under this plan. Optional, 
Shmoptional — Only if you can afford to 
throw away fifty dollars.
Under the other plan, campus residents are 
forced to deposit a minimum of $300 into a 
Validine account. Some choice!
The injustice, as we see it, is the lack of 
choice involved in the matter. We realize that at 
other colleges, students are forced to partici­
pate in a meal plan. This does not mean, how­
ever, that this kind of policy is right or fair.
These plans would have no monetary affect
On most dormitory residents — those students 
who dine frequendy on campus. We are con­
cerned about the minority. The students who 
for one reason or another, choose not to eat on 
campus should not be forced to do so by con- 
tractual or economic coercion.
We do have to admit that these propsed 
plans are good business sense. It would be 
wonderful if every business had its clientele 
guaranteed before beginning its operations. 
Food Service will simply have to learn how to 
survive and attract customers like any other 
restaurant.
Good service, quality and variety will bring 
’em back every time.
viewpoint
Now is the time to support America’s space program
by Bob Leighty
As human beings living in a human 
world we have many problems. In all coun­
tries, including our own, people are literally 
starving to death. In all countries, including 
our own, people are literally killing each 
other. In many ways our civilized world is as 
barbaric as it was 3000 years ago. If this is 
true, then why should we worry about our 
space program?
Shouldn’t more money be spent to 
rebuild our decaying cities, help people get 
jobs or fight world hunger? Couldn’t our 
money be more effectively spent for educat­
ing the illiterate? Why put men on the moon 
when people are starving? Why explore 
Jupiter and Saturn when people can’t read? 
Why build a space shutde when people are 
killing themselves in the streets?
Congress, in this era of fiscal conserva­
tism, is cutting funding on many NASA 
programs. Is Congress right - can money be 
better spent in areas other than space? There 
is no simple answer to this question. Cer­
tainly it would be foolish to spend all of our 
available money on space and ignore every­
thing else. But, how much should we spend 
on space? How important is space research? 
What can NASA do for us?
Perhaps a better question would be: What 
is space science and technology doing for us 
today? One of the most impressive results of 
the space program has been satellite technol­
ogy'. In addition to creating a revolution in 
communications, satellites use their sharp 
eyes to monitor everything from crops in the 
fields to oil spills in the oceans. Satellites 
help us find natural resources, predict the 
weather, survey land, and evaluate urban
growth patterns and position rescue squads 
after natural or manmade disasters. Satel­
lites have given man new skills and knowl­
edge worth literally billions of dollars. 
Today satellites tell us how our ozone layers 
are doing; tomorrow satellites may beam 
solar energy to the earth via microwaves.
The influence of the space program is 
substantial in our drive to improve energy 
production and conservation. Wind power, 
solar power, electric power -- NASA is 
involved in these and many other energy 
developments.
Because of the space program, airplanes 
are being developed which run smoother, 
stronger, cleaner and safer. Energy is con­
served in factories which use special indus­
trial lubricants and coatings developed 
through space research.
guest column
The Central American struggle continues at CMU
Dave Treleaven and Luis Ball, authors of 
recent Tartan articles on strife in Central 
America, write in response to Neil Ward's 
guest column.
Neil Ward’s “pro-insurgence” article (in 
lieu of a La tin-American of similar Marxist 
inclinations) shows many misconceptions 
of the realities in Latin America.
Ward is very honest in confessing he is 
unaware, if not totally ignorant, of “much 
even of what is published in English about 
Latin America” (“the best debunking in this 
small space is simple quotation”). In the 
following lines we will try to update Mr. 
Ward on the basics of Latin America 
politics.
The “cold war paranoia of the last thirty' 
years” is a very comfortable phrase most 
armchair idealists such as Mr. Ward use to 
hide their ignorance of the true dimensions 
of Cuban involvement in the region. Here 
are the reasons for our paranoia: Cuba has 
been training, equipping and inspiring 
communist insurgence from the moment 
Fidel Castro arrived in power.
In July of 1959 Castro launched an expe­
dition against the Dominican Republic; in 
I960 Castro declared that the Andean moun­
tains would be the next Sierra Maestra (East­
ern region of Cuba where Castro’s own 
revolution was bom). In 1962 the republic of 
Cuba was expelled from the O.A.S. (Organi­
zation of American States) after a hemis­
pheric condemnation of its role in an 
attempted communist invasion of Venezu­
ela. Throughout the remainder if the 1960’s
no Latin American country, with the excep­
tion of Mexico, had diplomatic relations 
with Cuba.
We could easily go on listing cases of 
Cuban involvement in revolutionary insur­
gencies throughout the world, but the point 
is that since the 60’s, Cuba has not changed 
its behavior. It is not by Marxist ideals that 
Latin American students like ourselves feel 
threatened, it is by Cuban-marxist bullets. 
Mr. Ward lightly dismisses (and seemingly 
condones) all suffering and misery with the 
simplistic statement “war is hell.” This 
brings to mind Leninist dogma which dic­
tates that any social change can only be 
achieved through revolutionary violence 
rather than the peaceful exchange of ideas.
To answer Mr. Ward’s speculations about 
the reasons for the Marxists’ dissatisfaction 
with the land reform program of El Salva­
dor, we can only point out that Roy L. 
Prosterman (prof. erf Law at U. of Washing­
ton who has worked on land problems in 16 
developing countries and who worked as a 
consultant to the largest peasant union in El 
Salvador) says that the leftists revolutionar­
ies fight the landI reform because it threatens 
their ability to attract peasant support. He 
also points out in a recent (Feb. 8,1981 )New 
York Times article that in 1979 El Salvador 
had the highest ratio of tenant farmers to the 
general population in Latin America, and 
now it has no tenant farmers to be found. 
This demonstrates the success of the land 
reform program.
Soviet domination is, as Ward points out
“another risk to El Salvador’s autonomy.” It 
is no consolation though, for the Salvado­
reans to contemplate the Cuban style “qual­
ity of life.” We would like to know against 
what scale Mr. Ward measures the quality of 
life in Cuba. Do we measure the length of 
the breadlines or the length of the jail terms 
for political dissidents (or those who praise 
the “free commerce of words”)?
Maybe we should ask the 120,000 Cuban 
refugees who until recently enjoyed this 
magnificent quality of life. Among these
120,000 we find people of every color sex and 
age who had enjoyed the “glorious revolu­
tion” for twenty years. The few criminals 
among the refugees are not a result of merci­
less capitalism or bourgeois class structure. 
In Cuba there are no bourgeoise nor any 
trace of capitalism.
To conclude, U.S. foreign aid to Latin 
American countries should not be seen as an 
attempt for domination. Ecuador, an OPEC 
member, receives as much U.S. as El Sal­
vador, yet the U.S. has hardly been able to 
dictate the price of its crude! The major 
point of the two articles dealing with Cen­
tral America was that the three Salvadoreans 
interviewed represent a country’s hope for 
peaceful evolution through hard work and a 
constructive attitude. It is very easy, Mr. 
Ward, to spread discontent among the dis- 
possed, but it is much harder to strive for 
practical and peaceful solutions.
Dave Treleaven is a Junior Chemical En­
gineering major. Luis Ball is a junior Econ­
omics major.
Many experts view the previously menti­
oned solar satellites as at least a partial solu- [ 
tion to man’s energy energy crisis. Satellites 
orbiting the earth would absorb energy from, 
the sun in massive “farms” of solar cells, 
The energy would be transformed to micro-1 
waves and beamed to special “rectennas” on! 
the earth, where it would be converted to 
electidty.
While satellites and energy technology are 
two tangible results of our space program, 
the list doesn’t end there. Space technology! 
has increased agricultural productivity. 
Space technology has made large quantities 
of nutritional and inexpensive synthesized | 
food available in poverty-stricken third j 
world nations. Space technology has created j 
new products: plastics or other materials I 
coated with a fine mist of vacuum-vaporized j
metal became space blankets, frozen food 
packaging and other goods; manufacturing 
without gravity yields virtually pure alloys | 
and virtually perfec t precision parts.
In addition to the unique methods of pro­
cessing materials which space allows, space 
provides an environment for many valuable i 
experiments inappropriate or simply 
impossible on earth. The list of space benef­
its goes on: microprocessors, computer sim- 
continued on page 3
______________________________
Editor-in-Chief.......................Richard GorelicU
Associate Editor................................Bob Leighty I
Managing Editor........................Robert Zusmaflj
Business Manager..........................Linda Hetrick!
Asst. Business Manager ..... Pam Shugmnanj
News Editor.............................Jennifer Hutton I
Asst News Editors...........................Alia* Alfaro*.
Monica Gellw
Features Editor..................... Maureen Brennan
Asst Features Editor................Kathy Krumnxft I
Entertainment Editor.......................Adam Laufflf
Sports Editor...................................Gregg Bosski j
Dossier Editor..................................Lynn Ej»Wnj
Photography Editors ... ........Chuck Chick*1’1
Doug Kill*
Contributing Editors........................Jim Bal*»11!
Sue Btfil 
Doug Kiisil
Production Manager ......................Vince Guii!*11!
Production Staff...................................Bob Ha'1
Mark TheNw
Copyright © 1981 by The Tartan. The Editorial Boa 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 31 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Off“**! 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo52! 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. MaWj 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA I1’-* | 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 3
letters___________
Long live Liberalism
Editor
“So traditional liberalism. . .is essentially 
worthless in meeting today’s problems.” 
according to Bill Kapner.
Where does he get off making a statement 
like that?
In point of fact, liberal programs have 
worked damn well, for those who are inter­
ested enough to research what they are talk­
ing about. Does anyone remember the child 
malnutrition problem in this country before 
about 1965? Does anyone realize that the 
vitamin A blindnesses and rickets which 
used to be endemic in poor children have 
virtually been eliminated thanks to the food 
stamps everyone is so mad about? Does 
anybody care?
Kapner’s editorial says that “We can no 
longer afford to throw money at problems.” 
How does he explain that West Germany, 
with its 3% inflation and unemployment 
rates, devotes 40% of its GNP to central 
government spending? Does he believe that 
it’s OK to throw money at military prob-
lems, but not social problems?
What the hell has happened to this coun­
try? Don’t we give a damn about poverty any 
more? Why doesn’t Bill Kapner take a stroll 
through the hill tonight or in West Appala­
chia or the South Bronx, and then tell me 
about how we can’t afford to help those 
people!
Kapner’s editorial is an insult to the poor, 
to the 9 million who voted for Ted Kennedy 
in Democratic primaries this last election, 
the 38 million who voted for McGovern in 
’72, and the 100 million who didn’t bother to 
choose between conservative Carter and 
reactionary Reagan.
I’m a liberal and I’m proud of it. Wait 
four years, and when inflauon is at 20% and 
unemployment at 10% thanks to right-wing 
stupidity, the American people will be 
screaming to bring back the liberals.
Barton Levenson 
Comp Sei/Junior
Artist calls for “open attitude” in response to Dossier editorial
Editor:
I, too, was moved to write a letter in 
response to Lynn Epstein’s editorial which 
appeared in the Feb. 3 issue of Dossier. The 
following letter was written that Tuesday 
night, Feb. 3. However, I decided to wait one 
week before submitting this. I wanted to be 
able to address it to any responses her editor­
ial may have sparked. Therefore, I now 
direct this, letter to Lynn Epstein, Michael 
Fox, and others who share similar views:
I am neither an opponent nor a supporter 
of the views expressed by Lynn Epstein in 
her editorial which appeared in the Feb. 3 
issue of Dossier.
There were intriguing issues raised; how­
ever, I wish only to further advance the dis­
cussion of Art vs. Technology or 
Technology vs. Art, whichever title one 
prefers.
In anticipation of strong responses from 
the math, science, business or engineer 
majors, I am setting out to contract some 
type of ‘peace letter’ or compromise between 
these two groups.
A more open attitude on the part of artists
and technologists, (and I use both terms 
loosely to establish the two groups), will 
lead to the harmonious environment Lynn 
desires. She herself stated in the author’s 
note that she was aware of the one-sided 
view represented in her argument.
Her editorial seems comprised of two 
ideas: how students feel toward art/technol­
ogy, and what to do about these attitudes. 
The statement, “The engineer’s argument 
that the humanities/arts no longer serve as a 
function in societies...” is clearly a close- 
minded view for anyone to express about 
anyone’s academic major and does not 
deserve further discussion. For one to say, 
“The artists/engineers say, “—” about us 
and they are wrong, we are right,” only 
makes it more difficult to achieve some sort 
of settlement.
Lynn Epstein also said several times that 
it is time to “question” technology’s attitude 
toward the arts. This proposal seems rhetori­
cal and without purpose. I believe there is a 
better direction for us to take here. How do 
we know technology is bad for society? 
Granted, I can argue both sides of this
strongly, as can most people, but if we hon­
estly evaluate our thoughts about this ques­
tion, most of us will admit that we simply 
do not know what is best for our society.
Another question came to mind while 
reading her editorial: Is it not natural for a 
student to regard his major as extremely 
important? Ideally, this should not be done 
at the expense of degrading the fields of 
others. We should question candidly our 
understanding of these areas which tend to 
lie opposite ours, for it is never wise tocritic-
ize something we do not understand. And 
usually, we will find that all fields are 
interdependent.
If we artists wish to be respected by engi­
neers,and if engineers wish to have artists 
make more effort to understand their life’s 
occupation, then ultimately both sides must 
avoid becoming close-minded, cynical, and 
defensive.
Mary Buck 
CFA 
Art ’84
A student’s love letter to CMU
Editor
Carnegie-Mellon University is a great 
school! Having attended this university for 
four years I feel I am entitled to express my 
view. With the existence of continual 
Humanities/Engineering 8c Science con­
troversy, I feel I need to express my satisfac­
tion and respect of the university as a whole.
CMU offers only one kind of course- 
substantive. In a single CMU course one
Entropy—CMU’s inconvenience store?
Editor:
I read the article on the Entropy store with 
interest. I have believed for some time that 
this store should be replaced with a profes­
sionally run operation. Students simply do 
not have the dme to run this type of store 
properly. The current level of services pro­
vided by the Entropy store is a joke. Four 
times last semester, I had to walk to Oakland 
or Shadyside to buy basic items such as 
toothpaste, newspapers, laundry detergent, 
and soap.
I have learned through experience that 
the chances of finding something that I 
really need at the Entropy store are pretty 
low, and the only effecdve way that I have 
found to deal with this situauon is to buy, at
the beginning of the term, a complete stock 
of all items that I could conceivably need. It 
is apparent that any other convenience store 
would simply go out erf business if it offered 
service on the level of the Entropy store. 
Would you continue to patronize a store
that did not dependably supply basic, essen- 
dal items, or a store that refused to give 
change for a $5 bill on a small purchase? 
Students here are busy, and need a conven­
ience store. Entropy does not fill that need, 
and should be replaced with an operation 
that does.
Peter Da bos 
Graduate Student 
Electrical Engineering
Time to refuel the space program
continued from page 2
elation, biomedical technology, behavior 
analysis and much more.
Certainly space has given mankind many 
tangible rewards, but some rewards are more 
ambiguous in nature. For example, it is dif- 
fic ult to describe the pride Americans and 
the rest of the world felt when the Eagle 
landed on the moon. How can someone 
( *plain the magnificent planet Saturn, a 
golden ball of turbulent gases embraced by 
countless glistening rings, fifteen or so 
moons (one bigger than the planet Mercury) 
and a blanket of black nothingness?
Space is the ultimate virgin territory unex-
plored by man. Space is the great adventure 
-- it is a new world for man to conquer. 
Space is the great resource - the universe is 
abundant in minerals valuable for man. 
Space is the great research laboratory - it is 
the frontier of many branches of science.
Space has much to offer man, but the 
American pardcipation is heading fora lull 
period. Programs created a few years ago 
like the Voyager crafts and the Space Shuttle 
are entering their glory today; however, 
today NASA is having difficulty funding 
new programs for the future.
Will we meet Haley’s Comet in 1985? Will 
we install giant telescopoes in space? Will
we establish an extensive network of 
manned space stadons like the Soviet Union 
is planning? Will we advance in vital space 
technology like the Soviet Union and other 
countries around the world are doing? Will 
we leam more about the origin of life, the 
structure of the cosmos and the significance 
of man? If we want to say “yes” to these and 
similar questions, we must boost our sup­
port of the American and global space 
programs.
Bob Leighty is a Junior majoring in 
Technical Writing and Editing. He is the 
Associate Editor of The Tartan.
leams a tremendous amount about the sub­
ject. This is the case regardless of the idendty 
of the college or department in which the 
course is offered. The unifying aspect of 
Camegie-Mellon University is the excel­
lence and comprehensiveness in all aca­
demic endeavors. Both course content and 
faculty teaching and concern for students 
excel.
In addidon to the comprehensiveness and 
excellence of the courses I have experienced 
here at CMU, I have found that I have deve­
loped broader rather than narrower inter­
ests. I am a chemistry major whose interests 
have expanded to cognidve psychology, 
mathematics, mathematical statistics, 
human perception'and philosophy. I have 
had courses in all of these areas including 
six courses in philosophy. I have also deve­
loped an interest in computer program­
ming to the extent that I have written several 
programs on my own inidadve.
As an indication erf the comprehensive­
ness of the courses offered at CMU I have 
found aspects of my diverse collection of 
courses including chemistry related to each 
other. In many cases such reladons that 
appeared impossible have actually been 
made explicit in the course by the text or 
professor.
While I have had a diverse yet comprehen­
sive educadon, I have been able to take 25 
courses (incl. six semesters of seminar) in my 
major field of chemistry. I leave CMU with a 
feeling of having had the best possible prep­
aration for my carreer (sic) in chemistry and 
a feeling of having had an expansion of 
interests and a comprehensive knowledge of 
several fields other than my major. Ihank 
you, CMU!
Mark Goldhamer
more letters on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
National Nobel Prize winners gather in Pittsburgh
Last week over a dozen American Nobel 
Laureates convened in Pittsburgh for the 
largest gathering since the Kennedy 
administration.
Past Nobel Prize winners spoke to the 
public on a variety of topics, including the 
energy problem, culture in America, 
research in genetics, the aesthetics of science, 
and foreign aid policies.
The convocation was held in the new 
David L. Lawrence Convention Center.
Energy-anything but secure
“Anything but secure” is the way Dr. 
Hans Bethe described the current energy 
situation in this country'. He says that themore letters
energy problem has been with us since 1973 
and we are just starting to do something 
about it.
Dr. Bethe, winner of the 1967 Nobel Prize 
in Physics, remarked that, last year, the Uni­
ted States cut its oil imports to six million 
barrels a day. “This is a start,” he said, “but 
much more needs to be done.”
Bethe asserted that the energy crisis is defi­
nitely real; he explained that we cannot have 
an ample energy supply and low process at 
the same time. High energy prices are neces­
sary to encourage conservation and to raise 
production.
The Nobel Laureate outlined three separ­
ate paths the U.S. should follow towards
energy independence. These include find­
ing new sources of oil and gas-such as shale 
oil, encouraging conservation, and develop­
ing substitutions for oil and gas.
Bethe also believes that we should exploit 
our huge coal reserves, and continue to use 
nuclear power, with safety as a primary 
concern.
Solar energy will not play a significant 
role in the next twenty to thirty years accord­
ing to Bethe, although he thinks that it is 
marginally economical for heating water. 
When asked about solar-power satellites, 
Bethe labeled them as “pure fantasy.”
Dr. Bethe believes that, using all available 
alternatives, the U.S. could become inde­
pendent of oil imports in the next ten years. 
The laureate remarked, "it would take a big 
investment and a big effort, but it would be 
well worth the price.”
A cultural society?
Saul Bellow, 1976 Nobel Laureate in 
Literature, discussed culture in modern 
America. He maintained that the intelli­
gence, drive and inventiveness present in the 
U.S. do not necessarily lead to a cultural 
society, since America is viewed by some as a 
culturally dark continent. Our “cities 
imitate Paris just to make poets feel at 
home,” Bellow observed.
continued on page 5
Another engineer responds to Dossier editorial
Editor:
Hopefully, this letter will add something 
to the debate started by Lynn Epstein’s essay 
on technology in Dossier (Feb. 3). Her piece 
was certainly geared to elicit response, and it 
got it from Michael Fox (Feb. 10). As a com­
puter engineer I suppose I might be expect 
to side with the technocrats, but Mr. Fox’s 
views are too insidious to support, or even 
let pass.
If Mr. Fox thinks that Ms. Epstein is a 
“whiner,” and that technology-induced 
alienation is all in her head, he is being very
Letter Policy
A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the nght to condense or reject any 
letter.
near-sighted. The effect is very real, and his 
failure to recognize it can only make it 
worse. Indeed, though “we (engineers) 
strive, each in our own field, to change and 
better our environments,” we are not always 
successful. Pollution, modern-day job dissa­
tisfaction, potential CRT radiation, and 
mercury leaks are all evidence of this. The 
solution to some of these problems is indeed 
more (or better) technology. But the “tech­
nological fix” is never a complete solution, 
Mr. Fox, nor should it be. Simply adding 
technology will not aid our mastery of it. 
What is needed is communication, and this 
is Ms. Epstein’s important point. As long as 
technology is developed without real con­
cern for (and input from) the poeple who 
will “benefit” from it, we will continue to 
have cars with no leg room, vending 
machines that don’t return change, and 
hard to use, frustrating computers. What 
won’t help is to accuse the humanists of 
“crybaby” tactics when they are dissatisfied 
with the techonology we have provided.
It is also a lack of communication and 
understanding (I hope) that makes Mr. Fox 
dispense with humanities/arts skills as tend­
ing “to be used more passively, for entertain­
ment, etc.” (I suppose “etc.” stands for all of 
education, communication, moral and ethi­
cal debate, and other trivialities.) As if these 
skills are less desirable than engineering, or 
for that matter, less vital to our lives! Mr. 
Fox is being particularly arrogant (and at 
the same time matching the mold of the 
technologist that Ms. Epstein so decries) 
when he claims that we as engineers “earn a 
sense of fulfillment and subsequent peace of 
mind that [those in the humanities] seem to 
be lacking.” I didn’t realize we were so much 
better off than poor humanist brethren.
Such attitudes, Mr. Fox, are not likely to 
comfort those already suspicious of technol­
ogy. As Ms. Epstein says, “The engineer’s 
argument that the humanities/arts [are] less 
important than technology causes... aliena­
tion..., defensiveness and hostility...”
How about bringing us your ideas?
The best education after college is 
being able to put your talent to work.
To do this, you need an environment 
that is open to your ideas. One that 
can offer you challenge, responsibility 
and diversity. Scott Paper can do just 
that.
Because of our size and diversity, 
we can offer capable people an environment 
in which to develop their potential. Talented 
college graduates will find career growth op­
portunities in finance, marketing and marketing 
research, accounting, engineering, research 
and development, management science and 
industrial relations.
That's why you should learn more about 
Scott Paper, a multi-dimensional, Fortune 500 
company. For over 100 years, we have been pro­
ducing a variety of quality consumer and commer­
cial paper products.
We are a company open to ideas, f^ow 
about bringing us yours?
There is a lot more to Scott than just paper. A 
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INFORMATION
SCOTT
SCOTT PAPER COMPANY
An equal opportunity employer, M/F
Now to be fair, Ms. Espstein’s generaliza­
tion about “big business, the government,a 
nd technocrats” aren’t very conducive to the 
idea of communication either. Engineers 
and scientists will not be very patient with 
such vague finger-pointing, and the aliena­
tion worry ing Ms. Epstein will only increase 
as a result of her efforts.
Certainly technology should be questi­
oned — anything that affects our lives so 
thoroughly should not be ignored. Perhaps, 
though, we should try for less of an adver­
sary relationship. The rift between the 
humanities and technology is not so wide 
that it cannot be bridged, but we’ll have to 
stop shouting at one another before we’ll get 
it done.
Paul G. Fox 
ELE. Grad.
Write on!
Editor:
Right On to Lynn Epstein’s editorial in
the last issue of Dossier. It examined an 
aspect of CMU that sorely needs to be heard: 
namely that CMU is such a Goddamn 
lonely place, so much of the time. People are 
so afraid of each other, so insecure, so alie­
nated. The reasons for this are probably 
many and probably go very deep as Lynn 
says. I could suggest a few theories of my 
own but I don’t think it would do any good. 
Pointing fingers make people hostile. I 
think if iristead, we hold our awareness of 
this condition, keep it in our minds, then 
maybe people, individuals, things, will start 
to change, simply by the knowledge of the 
way things are.
Yours truly, 
Alex Marshall
nDTICT
ENGINEERING 
DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355-0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P M-
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 5
JOURNEY
CAPTURED
NOW OPEN
CÌÌI1TS
raituorTliyewear^^
4200 Murray Ave.r Pittsburgh, PA 1521? 
Barry A. Merenstein Optician 
AH Optical Prescriptions filled
*Lenses duplicated/Frames 
replaced
discount Prices
•Fashion Eyewear Designer 
Frames
*Visa/Mastercharge accepted
15% DISCOUNT
•With CMU ID
panel discussion with Nobel Laureates held at WQED
Last week seven of the visiting Nobel 
Laureates attended a special seminar to dis­
cuss the future of their respective fields. The 
CMU-sponsored panel discussion was mod­
erated by H&SS Dean John Crecine.
Laureates who attended were Edwin 
McMillan (chemistry, 1951), William Lips­
comb (chemistry, 1976), John Bardeen 
(physics, 1956 and 1972), Polykarp Kusch 
(physics, 1955), Ivar Giaever(physics, 1973), 
William Shockley (physics, 1956) and 
Baruch Blumberg (physiology and medi­
cine, 1976).
Crecine initiated the discussion by asking 
the Laueates their feelings about the 
decrease in government research funding. 
McMillan began by stating that, fifty years 
ago and before government support, major 
discoveries were being made; and if govern­
ment support were to stop, he feels discover­
ies would still be made. Lipscomb thought 
that financial support should be going to 
fundamental or theoretical science, as
opposed to applied science.
“Technology, especially physics, leads to 
ever more sophisticated weapons of war,” 
responded Kusch, “it’s a terrible maladjust­
ment of our wealth and knowledge.” The 
controversial'William Shockley contributed 
by saying that Alfred Nobel’s purpose in 
starting his prize was to award “the greatest 
benefit to mankind,” and one of the gretest 
benefits science can bring to mankind is 
through research into social problems, such 
as battered wives and children, runaways, 
and alcoholism. Research in these areas, 
however, is suppressed,” said Shocklev.
When asked how he felt about govern­
ment’s role in deciding what research 
should be funded, Lipscomb stated, “I am 
very concerned about the education in 
science of those making the decisions.” He 
then remarked that most people who do 
make these decisions represent the five out of
six Americans who take no science after the 
tenth grade.
Scientists are sometimes to blame, said 
Giaever; “We haven’t conveyed the excite­
ment of science across.” The Physics Lau­
reate said that he couldn’t understand how 
people can watch television without know­
ing how it works - he had to take one apart 
to find out.” Kisch said that one of the most 
urgent problems is school teaching which 
must become respectable again - by offering 
competetive salaries - and that parents must 
not be afraid of science.
Crecine asked how the Laureates felt 
about the change from America’s enthral­
lment by the opportunities of science in the 
Sixties, to the widespread fear of the risks 
today. Giaever commented that science gives 
people the knowledge to make nuclear 
power plants and bombs, but it can’t decide 
which to produce for them. This statement 
led to questions from Shockley about the 
safety of nuclear waste disposal. Contribut­
ing to the discussion, Giaever said that we 
have no way of knowing what people 100 
years from now will be doing; they may be
mining our nuclear wastes. Kusch com­
mented on the arrogance of the people; “the 
general public doesn’t understand all the 
concepts we’re talking about; they just want 
to know if it’s safe or not.”
This led Shockley into a discussion of 
dysgenics, the deterioration of hereditary 
qualities. Shockley feels that this is espe­
cially a problem for the black population, 
because “birthrate for poor blacks is almost 
three times that of intellectual blacks.”
Crecine asked the Laureates’ opinions of 
the Noble prizes that will be awarded in the 
year 2000. Lipscomb thinks they will be for 
research on how the mind works, while Bar­
deen believes that there will be discovery of a 
unique structure of the universe. Shockley 
said that DNA research will be important in 
the future.
The panel discussion was recorded 
WQED and will be presented on televisior 
as a one hour special; the date is yet to be 
announced.
President
Eastern School of Hypnotism
240 Rivington Street 
New York 2. N.Y.
Dr. Marcus Bloch, 
LHY
v_j ? u r\j £E ltj " v 
F2) r\J D E3 R CD LJ GE> H
Finally, the excitement of Journey on stage is cap­tured on record. With four power-packed sides of your favorite Journey classics, plus two new songs never before recorded.
JOURNEY. CAPTURED THE LIVE TWO-RECORD SET 
INCLUDING. THE PARTY S OVER (HOPELESSLY IN LOVE' ON COLUMBIA RECORDS AND TAPES
Produced by Kevin Elson Columbia is a trademark of CBS Inc © 1901 CBS Inc
Available at your favorite record store
National Nobel Prize winners gather in Pittsburgh
continued from page 4 
He also commented that the rich in Amer­
ica are loyal to money, but not culture. He 
believes the wealthy seek their prestige 
through materialism.
Bellow recalls people in the “old times” as 
being more friendly and trusting. He sees
The Tartan’s coverage of last weeks 
Nobel Laureate convocation was a joint 
effort of many reporters, writers, editors, 
and photographers. Reporters and writ­
ers were Sue Borg, Monica Cellio, Bob 
Harr, Joe Ihnat, Doug Kirsop, Bob 
Leighty and Stuart Schlisserman. Photo­
graphers were Chuck Chidekel, Doug 
Ellis and Robert Zusman.
unemployment as a major danger to cul­
ture; the unemployed feel alienated, and 
with so many people out of work the U.S. 
cannot be a viable society. The American 
society is more interested in the news of the 
day, rather than news of their “Being, exist­
ence, or purpose” according to the Laureate. 
Bellow said that current reading material 
consists of newspapers and advertisements, 
and “real news is news of goods and 
money.”
The Nobel Laureate, however, is not 
totally discouraged by society’s general lack 
of artistic support. Bellow commented that 
culture is still possible, as long as news of 
“being” can still be transferred.
Genetics and evolution
Arthur Komberg, winner of the 1959 
Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine is 
the man responsible for discovering DNA 
Polymerase, the enzyme which can repro­
duce new DNA templates.
Komberg’s talk began with an explana­
tion of DNA and its potential uses: 
“...recombinent DNA and genetic engineer­
ing,” he said, “is the technology which will 
lead to medical miracles; in fact, already 
has.” Komberg’s optimism for the future of 
scientific research causes him to believe that 
within this century science will explain the 
chemical basis for individual human 
behavior.
“It is basic research in physics, chemistry 
and biology,” he said “that have created a
number ot medical sciences that have now 
merged into a confluent discipline 
expressed in a common language.” 
Komberg’s optimism wanes, however, at 
the thought of lagging federal funding for 
pure research and the keen competition that 
exists between industry and science for the 
attention of students.. “There is no question 
that we must depend on federal support of 
research for it to continue at anything resem­
bling the pace that we’ve encountered or 
want to have. Any delusions that private 
support for research can do anything signifi­
cant to maintain the kind of momentum 
and promise that I’ve been talking about is 
rather foolish.”
continued on page 20

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
SDC holds discussions on food service, housing
by Jennifer Hutton and Greg Pisocky
Last Wednesday evening, the Student 
Dormitory Council (SDC) hosted a question 
and answer session with university housing 
and food service representatives who pres­
ented their prospective plans for the 1981- 
1982 school year. Director of Auxilliary 
Services, Oscar Mayer, Gary Dalton, Direc­
tor of Housing, Food Sendee Director Ken 
Stover, and Dean of Student Affairs, Earle 
Swank answered questions from the SDC 
representatives and members of the 
audience.
Mayer began the meeting by presenting 
the food service plans currently under con­
sideration. Two new food contract plans are 
being discussed for current students while a 
policy for entering freshmen has already 
been decided upon.
The first option for current students is a 
fifty dollar per semester fee which will be 
paid by all students who reside in dormito­
ries without cooking facilities - every cam­
pus residence except on campus houses and 
apartments. This fifty dollar payment is a 
fee (not a deposit) in that it will not be put 
towards food expenditures. This fee would 
then entitle students to a 13% discount on 
food items purchased. Under this plan both 
the Validine and the points system will 
probably be offered. Commuters have the 
option of the 13% discount or the old 5% 
discount and no fee.
The second alternative is a mandatory 
minimum Validine deposit of $300 per 
semester for dorm students who live in non­
cooking facilities. The deposit, due in the 
beginning of the semester, would then enti­
tle students to a 5% food discount. This Vali­
dine deposit would carry between semesters, 
but would not be refunded at the end of the
spring term. Some form of the points system 
will also probably be offered under this 
plan. Commuters are not required to dep­
osit $300.
Ken Stover and Oscar Mayer both com­
mented that the food plans were made man­
datory in order to step-up student sales 
which account for 75% of the Food Service 
income.. Food Service summer sales and 
non-student account sales make up the
remaining 25% of Food Services’ income.
Mayer explained that Food Service needs 
to have a larger capital base to work with in 
order to avoid running in the red. When 
asked how much money Food Service was 
expected to lose this year Mayer responded, 
“approximately less than half of what was 
lost last year (half a million dollars)”
Two members of the audience expressed 
concern over the mandatory requirements of
all the proposed plans. In response, several 
committee members stated that exceptions 
would probably be made for students who 
could not eat Food Service for religious rea­
sons - for example, those who keep kosher 
University policy is not as sympathetic to 
students who are vegetarians. Ken Stover 
remarked that since one non-meat dish is 
served at each meal it is not likely thatexcep- 
continued on page 22
Chemistry to culture: Laureates visit CMl7
continued from page 1
Komberg has continued his work at 
Stanford, focusing on how DNA, the 
body’s chemical transmitter of genetic 
information, is formed. Other genetic 
transmitter^ form themselves from 
simpler chemical components, but DNA 
must have a template on which to build 
itself, and an enzyme to start the 
replication.
Hi^j|ork was a major factor in 
allowing biochemists to make these and 
other discoveries about the complicated 
duplex strand that is the backbone for 
DNA. Kornberg continued his lecture by 
outlining his current research which 
involves reproducing the coiled double 
strand of DNA in the laboratory.
Because the strand is coiled, it can 
circle around to the left or to the right. 
Only one of these, however, will actually 
function as DNA, even though all other 
aspects of the strand are exactly the same. 
Kornberg discussed various purification 
methods to separate the active from the 
inactive species, and processes to insure 
that only the active one is produced.
He also explained how proteins are being 
used to start and control the replication 
speed of new DNA molecules.
Hans Bethe
Nuclear theoretical physicist Hans Bethe 
spoke to a crowd of about 250 people in 
Science Hall 7500 last Wednesday. Awarded 
the Nobel Prize in 1967 for his work on the 
carbon cycle, which explains energy 
production in stars, he has made major 
contributions to almost every’ area of 
physics.
His lecture here centered on his work in 
astronomical physics. Bethe explained that 
the collapse of a star (white dwarf) takes less 
than a second, but gives off a tremendous 
amount of energy. This almost 
instantaneous release of energy (more than 
the star produced during its thousands of 
years of existence) creates what physicists 
have called neutrinos.
Neutrinos are only created when a star 
collapses. Although Bethe and his 
colleagues are not sure if these neutrinos 
have mass, they know they are so small that 
one can easily pass unobstructed through a
planet.
Although “we don’t know what I 
happens,” Bethe said, “We have very strong 
faith that the theory will work.”
Saul Bellow
“A Conversation with Saul Bellow," 
recipient of the 1976 Nobel Prize in j 
Literature, was held with a capacity crowd 
in the Wherrett Room last Thursday 
afternoon. Bellow made no opening 
statement, but explained he was just 
interested in answering questions.
“I don’t believe the university is an ivory I 
tower,” he said, but the value of a writing 
program “depends on the students and 
teachers.” Accordingly, he also said, “Aj 
writer can get better experience outside of 
school or newspaper jobs.”
Asked about the state of literature in this I 
country, he expounded, “There isn’t any I 
brilliant new literature in the United I 
States,” though he did name several 
American authors, including John Cheever 
who he considers “up and coming.”
As a rule, an author should not have an 
continued on page 10
JUBILEE 1981
March 6.7,8,1981 at the Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel
|UBtt.E£ 1961 is a conference designed to examine the meaning 
of the Lordship of Christ and the |UBIl£E of God in our lives as 
post-resurrection believers.
HERE’S A GOOD DEAL
GOLD PRICES MAY NEVER BE LOWER»
SPECIAL DOUBLE SAVINGS on your 
COLLEGE RING
• $10.00 discount on an Ultrium College Ring
• Fantastic trade-in values on your old 10k gold high school ring
check it out!
p|ace BOOKSTORE ____________________________THURS. FEB. 19 Date FRI. FEB. 20 Time lOa.m. - 4 p.m.
Required $ .15 «QQ----------------------
PIEGES ê CLUST HERFF JONES
OMMtOM Of CWIMlKMl ComptHfFOR a GRIST HMD!

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Area banks offer students numerous alternatives
by Matt Corley
To the majority of CMU students, bank­
ing means Mellon Bank. With the banking 
machine in Skibo it is very convenient to 
make transactions. There are, however, 
numerous other banks in Pittsburgh includ­
ing six major facilities with branch offices in 
Oakland, Shadyside and/or Squirrel Hill. 
\11 have options for banking that are worth
looking into.
Checking accounts with interest are the 
newest thing in banking. All of the above six 
banks have it. Interest checking basically 
ivorks like this: the money in a checking 
account earns 5l4 annual percentage which 
is compounded daily. Thus the money left 
in the account each day after all checks are 
written is what earns interest. The only 
catch to this is a minimum balance require­
ment that ranges from $500 to $2000 and if 
the account ever drops below this there is a 
fine. However, the account continues to 
-am interest.
Dollar Savings Bank offers the “Now” 
account for checking with interest. A $500 
minimum balance is required and there is a 
52 fee if the balance falls below this. The
“Now” account, like all the other accounts, 
earns 5*4%, compounded daily. Dollar Sav­
ings Bank also offers free bill payment by 
phone for “Now” account holders. The 
standard free checking is available which 
includes checks with name only on them. A 
5'/2% daily compounded savings account is 
offered with no minimum balance. Banking 
machines are located in Shadyside and 
Squirrel Hill.
Equibank offers “Bonus Checking” 
which requires a $1000 minimum and a $5 
fine for falling below the minimum. Free 
checking is not offered at Equibank unless 
the account keeps a $100 minimum. Other­
wise the fee is $2.50 per month. There is a 
compound daily savings account that 
requires a $300 minimum to collect interest 
and a free savings account with interest com­
pounded semi-annually. A Master Card 
account can be obtained through Equibank 
with a $300 special savings account. This 
money is kept frozen as long as the Master 
Card is maintained.
Keystone Bank’s checking with interest is 
also called the “Now” account. It requires a 
$500 minimum with a $4 service charge if
the account drops below the minimum. 
Keystone Bank also offers completely free 
checking and a daily compounded savings 
that requires no minimum balance.
Mellon Bank offers “Checking with Inter­
est”. While all the other banks require a 
minimum balance in their account, Mellon 
boasts the requirement of only a monthly 
gverage to defer a service charge. A $2000 
average must be kept or a $4 fee will be 
charged. The regular checking account costs 
$1.50 per month unless a $300 average is 
held. Master Card is available from Mellon 
Bank. Mellon Bank, of course, has banking 
machines in numerous convenient loca­
tions.
Pittsburgh National Bank requires a 
$1000 minimum or a $2000 average for 
“Check ’n’ Save” or a $5 charge will be 
assesed. Its regular checking account is $1.50 
unless a $100 minimum or $300 average is 
manitained in the account. The People’s 
Choice Account offers, for $3 per month, 
free checks, cashiers checks, money orders, 
and a safety deposit box. Visa is available for 
PNB for people who’ve had the same job for
four years, lived where they do for three 
years, and make $15,000 per year. PNB has 
numerous banking machines.
Union National Bank of Pittsburgh 
requires a $1500 minimum balance for 
checking with interest, and imposes a $5 
penalty fee. Free checking to regular 
account holders is available. Union 
National also offers several 5‘4 savings 
accounts and claims it might install some 
banking machines in the spring.
Checking with interest seems like a good 
idea—assuming one has enough money to 
let sit in the account to maintain the min­
imum. This is the only forseeable drawback.
All the banks have an overdraft fee for 
bad checks ranging fron $5 to $10. The bank 
covers a bad check and simply withdraws 
the money from the overdrawn account, 
plus the fee, upon subsequent deposit.
These six banks all offer student loans 
under the guidelines of the Pennsylvania 
Higher Education Act (PHEA). This gua­
rantees a maximum loan of $2500/year at 9% 
interest which starts compounding six 
months after the students schooling ends.
1905 to 1981
Engineering, fine arts, Margaret Morrison colleges first housed in Porter
furnish airplanes during World War I. 
Then, in 1919 the Men’s Cafeteria was 
moved to Langley. Later this dining hall 
was opened to all and the name changed to 
Main Cafeteria, or the Commons. Many 
referred to is as the “Beanery” until 1945 
when Carnegie requested it be dubbed 
Skibo. The reason for the request was two­
fold: 1) it was the name of Carnegie’s castle 
in Scotland, and 2) it was close to the site 
where a local merchant, from 1915-1945, 
supplied refreshments to campus members. 
The merchant referred to his stand as Skibo; 
the administration saw it as a source of poor 
nutrition for he supplied only such edibles 
as hamburgers and hot dogs. Langley was 
replaced in 1963 by Hunt Library. The fol­
lowing picture illustrates the students’ 
sentiments: (see page 8).
Temporary' structures were prevalent in 
Tech’s early history. For example, in 1947, 
additional space was needed for a postwar 
boom; therefore, three temporary wood 
buildings (18,000 total sq. ft.) were 
constructed—Web, Newton, and Jones 
halls (named after the dean of engineering 
and science, Webster Newton Jones). Jones 
was removed to provide room for Scaife 
Hall in 1960.
The evolution of Hunt Library is quite 
interesting. Originally the Carnegie Library 
(in Oakland) was intended to serve the cam­
pus need for a library. However, in 1920 the 
Institute purchased a World War I YMCA 
canteen. This structure was placed in the 
center of campus across from Fine Arts. It 
was referred to as the “Hut.” This added 
facility was too small to house all the neces­
sary books, so the education buildings took 
some of them. In 1943 the books were moved 
to the second floor of the Administration 
Building (Baker Hall) and later on to the 
third flow. The “Hut” was destroyed in 
1945. It was not for another 18 years that 
Hunt Library completed.
GSIA, Warner Hall, and Science Hall 
were the final major additions in 1952,1966, 
and 1971 repectively. It was at this point that 
Carnegie Institute of Technology became 
Camegie-Mellon University.
Dormitory development began in 1916 
with Forbes Hall (later a Faculty Club and 
dining room) and in 1921 with Mellon Hall, 
both men’s dorms. The first women’s dorm 
was built in 1936. Whitfield Hall (named 
after Carnegie’s wife) was built on the site 
we now know as Skibo. In 1948 Whitfield 
continued on page 9
Construction pictures show horse and 
wagon combinations hauling materials to 
the sites. 'Hie center section of the Fine Arts 
building was completed in 1912, and four 
years later additions were made.
Hamerschlag, originally referred to as 
Machinery Hall, was used to educate per­
sons involved in industries such as printing 
and metal work.
A year after Hamerschlag was in use, 
Baker Hall (originally Administration 
Hall) was finished. In the basement was 
present the school’s first cafeteria from 1914- 
1919. The first Student Union (1914) was 
also housed on the third floor. However, by 
1932 it provided offices only for student pub­
lications and Schiller House became the 
Student Union and Alumni Headquarters. 
Later (1960) Skibo was used for both of these 
purposes.
Another building that had many names 
and uses was the Langley Laboratory of 
Aeronautics. This was originally used to
bv Karen Stevens
The picture below illustrates the first 32 years
of planning and construction—it shows how 
a small one-building Carnegie Technical 
School grew into the 56-acre Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology. The development was
as follows:
In 1905 engineering, fine arts, and indus­
try together with members of Margaret Mor­
rison College were all educated in Industries 
Hall (now Porter). The building was blessed 
with a rehabilitation in 1941 when Augusta 
F. Porter (wife of John L. Porter, a former 
trustee) gave the school $200,000 in memory 
of her husband. By 1960 the north wing had 
been added.
The construction of the Margaret Morri­
son Carnegie College for Women was 
initiated next. Additions to the building 
were made in September of 1914. Besides 
being used to educate women in domestic 
ields, the building provided other facilities 
like a cafeteria (for women only) on the
fourth floor and a women’s gym and recrea­
tion center in the basement from 1907 to 
1924.
The development and construction of 
Engineering Hall was relatively slow. Pros­
pective engineers entered the skeletal build­
ing in January 1909; others walked from the 
completed structure in 1950. In 1965 the 
name of the hall was changed to Doherty. 
This was one of three names changed to 
commemorate the school’s first presidents. 
The other changes were Machinery Hall to 
Hamerschlag and Administration Hall to 
Baker.
An athletic field house was finished in 
October of 1910, and the gymnasium in 
1924. Thisde Hall was added to the gym in 
1932, and the field house was replaced by the 
Carnegie Inn, a cafeteria and grill. In 1953- 
54 the Inn was converted into a dorm hous­
ing 250 men—the present Donner Hall.
The construction of the Fine Arts struc­
ture was another rather lengthly process.
Aerial vievTofTht- campu
•) Machinery Hall (1913)
2) Industries Hall (1905)3) ‘ • -
of 1937. 4) Commons (1918)
5) Fine Arts (1912)
—  ------, 6) Gymnasium (1924)
Administration Hall (1914) 7) Marg. Morrision Carn. Col. (1907) H) Tennis Courts
l'Engineering Hall (1
9) Bureau of Mines
10) Library—“Hut”
12) Carnegie Inn
13) Men’s Dorms
M) Faculty House/Infirmary 
15) Mellon and Whitfield Halls
16) Forbes Hall

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
Six local banks’ services outlined
Banks and 
Locations
Savings Checking with interest Regular Penally Master Banking
/t , Checking on Card or Machinesminimum/fee if below .bounce Visa
Dollar Savings Bank
Squirrel Hill: 5822 Forbes 
521-7031
5/4% daily$500 / $2free$5noyes
Equibank
Oakland: 3700 Fifth 
687-7670
Shadyside: 5601 Walnut 
363-3400
Squirrel Hill: Forbes at Murray 
521-7126
5l4% daily 
w/ $300 min. 
balance 
or 
5'/4%
semiannual
$1000 / $5$100 min. 
or
$2.50/ month
$10Master
Card
yes
Keystone Bank
Oakland: 3520 Fifth 
687-3200
Shadyside: 5434 Walnut 
621-8800
Squirrel Hill: 1935 Murray 
521-4540
5V4% daily$500 / $4free$8. nono
Mellon Bank
Oakland: Fifth & Oakland 
683-1111
University: Fifth & Craig 
621-3344
Squirrel Hill: Murray & Darlington 
521-5542
5Vi% daily$2000 average / $4$300 average 
or
$ 1.50/month
$7Master
Card
yes
Y’
Pittsburgh National Bank
Oakland: 4600 Fifth 
683-7161 
4022 Fifth 
621-0300
Squirrel Hill: 5810 Forbes 
521-8800
1
514% daily 
w/ Money 
Manager
b%% semiannual 
w/ Passbook
$1000 min. / $5 
$2000 average / $5
$100 min. 
or
$300 average 
or
$1.50/month
$8Visayes
Union National Bank of Pittsburgh
Oakland: 4612 Forbes 
681-4200
Squirrel Hill: Murray & Darlington 
644-8412
b\% quarterly 
w/ Passbook 
5*4% daily 
w/ Statement
$1500 / $5free$10nono
. I
V
The present Skibo’s predecessor.
The Fine Arts building nears completion.
WRITERS & ARTISTS
OPPORTUNITY FOR 
LOCAL PUBLICATION
OAKLAND REVIEW
Literary magazine of the Camegie-Mellon Community, is now 
soliciting^submissions of poetry, short fiction, black and white 
artwork, and one-act plays for its 1981 issue. Submissions should 
be placed in the Oakland Review mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk, and for non-campus addresses, should be 
accompanied by a self-addressed, stamped envelope. Deadline for 
submissions is February 27.
1980 issue available at CMU and other local bookstores.
Supported by Student Senate
CLUBE DE
Ski Club Information
On Saturday, February 21 the CMU Ski Club will be 
having its first ski trip of the 1981 winter season. Tickets are 
available at the Skibo Information Desk for $28. We will be 
going to Snowshoe Mountain, West Virginia on Saturday 
morning, leaving from Skibo parking lot at 6:45 a.m. and 
returning at 7:45 p.m. When you pay for your ticket, be sure to 
fill out the ticket information sheet, so that if you lose your 
ticket we can verify that you have paid.
Snowshoe Mountain is one of the finest ski areas within 
driving distance of Pittsburgh. It is 4,000 feet high and has a 
vertial drop of 1,700 feet. There are 13 trails open, served by 5 
triple chairlifts. There are runs ranging in length between 7,500 
feet and 800 feet, for skiers of all levels of experience. Ski rentals 
are available at the hill for $10 for those who do not have skis 
with them.
If you have any questions please contact Mark Wendman 
at 421-8764 or Mike Schmitz at 578-4323.
Funded by your activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 9
Tartan questions senators on Senate's function
ADVERTISEMENT
ALL THE NEWS WORLDWIDE
HOME-DELIVERED 
LARGEST CLASSIFIED VOLl'ME
(213) 970-4986 
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT DIVISION OFFICE(She Hip (Uabs
SPANNINO THE GLOBE^^Î^^T1MELV REPORTING
IN FOUR PARTS.52 PAGES 
PART I-GENERAL NEWS-15 PAGES
VOL. LIX________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________DAILY FIVE CENTSON CAMPUS INTERVIEWSFEBRUARY 27
Name: Ralph M. Sherman 
Year: Junior
Major: Political Science/History 
Senate Experience: One and a half
years on Senate, as Rules Committee 
Chairman, Chairman of Senate, Stu­
dent Government President, and 
Senate Parlimentarian.
Q. What is the impact/influence of Senate 
on student opinion and administration
views? A. In my view, Student Senate has 
and can play an important role; (it) can 
impact upon other student organizations 
and the administration. Senate’s proper, 
most useful and influential position, is as a 
clearinghouse, a center for all students. It 
can help organize and point them in the 
right direction. Student Senate can help
mediate different opinions and clashing 
goals, be it between student organizations, 
or the students and the administration. In a 
sense, Senate should be the hub of the wheel, 
where all the separate campus interests can 
come together, to be worked out for eve­
ryone’s benefit.
Campus expands over the years
Q. How would you increase student interest 
and participation in Student Senate?
A. First of all, it’s far too easy to just wnte 
students off — to say students are apathetic, 
and then go from there. Students must be 
motivated to be involved in student govern­
ment. Like everyone else, a concern about 
the results, a self-interest in the final pro­
duct, is the foundation of participation.
For example, let me summarize one 
related, complex issue. People have talked 
about student union facilities for a long, 
long time. A fundraising effort, pooling the 
work of students, faculty, the administra­
tion, and alumni could unite all of the differ­
ent groups in a positive, cooperate manner.
The campus media, especially WRCT 
and the Tartan, would be useful in promot­
ing and maintaining this effort. It would 
signal student’s willingness to share in the 
efforts to get more student facilities. In 
return, they could reasonably expect better 
facilities in both the near and long term. 
Students are better off, the school is better off 
(more attractive to potential students and 
others, and the alumni share in the contin­
ual growth and improvement of their alma 
mater. And this is just one way to increase 
student participation in their student 
government.
Q. What issues are you working on with the 
administration?
A. Right now, concern about the graduate- 
undergraduate relationship is one of the 
most troublesome and important issues I 
have been working on in Senate. The prob­
lem stretches back for some time, but main­
taining good communications, in an 
organized fashion, has always been vital. 1 
believe that we have suffered from a lack of 
an effective framework.
Briefly, I’d like to summarize one possible 
answer. We could utilize a committee 
structure with representatives from under­
graduates, graduates, faculty and the admin­
istration. This group, working under a 
charter that is university policy, could help 
arbitrate differences. The distinct differences 
between the two types of students must be 
recognized; but no activities fee paying stu­
dent should be denied his or her fair share of 
participation in all activiities he or she has
Name: Mary Watson Year: JuniorMajor: Public Policy/Applied 
History
Senate Experience: One year as Aca­
demic Affairs Committee Member.
continued on page 10
continued from page 7
was transformed into graduate housing 
until it was demolished in 1957 during con­
struction of the present Skibo. In 1957 
Mudge House was obtained to compensate 
for the housing shortage.
Hill dorms were built in 1915-1918 
along what was then called Woodlawn 
Avenue (now Margaret Morrison). These 
housed 450-500 men. Remodeling of one of 
these seven structures every year began in 
1936 but was interrupted in 1940 by WWII. 
Henderson, Welch, Boss, and McGill were 
finished, but Scobell wasn’t completed until
1954. Four two-story frame buildings 
obtained from Federal Public Housing were 
used as temporary lodgings. The other two, 
Miller and Englebrecht, were razed in 1960 
for Hamerschlag House.
Additional note: A temporary bridge 
from the campus to Morewood Avenue was 
destroyed in 1916 and the ravine was filled 
with the cutting down of a 60 foot hill. This 
new area was referred to as the “Cut.” This 
last picture shows the “Cut” in 1957 with 
the senior fence in the foreground. The fence 
was originally used by senior boys to watch 
the girls pass by.
Newest Northrop 
Fighter Advances 
F-5 Family 
March 24, 1980 - 
Hawthorne, California
The new generation of Northrop’s F-5 
family of low cost tactical fighter aircraft, 
the F-5G, was announced at Hawthorne 
today, stepping up a nearly 20-year 
evolutionary program for the company. 
The single-engined F-5G was conceived 
to meet world defense needs today and 
through the 1990’s, and offers an affordable, 
supportable defensive system that keeps 
pace with the changing requirements for 
national security.
February 1981
Northrop Aircraft is still designing and 
building high-performance aircraft today 
in the company’s mile-long, modem com­
plex in Hawthorne, California. For 40 
years, we’ve promoted the people associ­
ated with our products and furnished 
one of the finest benefits packages avail­
able in the industry including educational 
reimbursement for employees in an ac­
credited graduate study program; a con­
venient savings plan - for every dollar 
invested, Northrop contributes 50 per­
cent; and generous vacations - including 
a week long Christmas holiday. In addition 
to a creative work environment you’ll 
enjoy Southern California’s year round 
recreational paradise. And, Northrops 
recreation club sponsors many enjoy­
able activities such as skiing, golf and 
fishing.
If your interests are in TECHNICAL ENGI­
NEERING which includes AERONAUTI­
CAL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, 
COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATERIALS 
SCIENCE, or MATH. (B.S. and M.S. level). 
See Northrop today for your tomorrow.
Contact the placement office to schedule an 
appointment with a Northrop representative.
Aircraft Division
If you can not meet with us at this time, 
please forward your resume to:
Employment Office 
Dept. 1221/80 TS/CMU 
2815 El Segundo Blvd. 
Hawthorne, CA 90250
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
NORTHROP
¡Making advanced technology work.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
HfcSS senators questionedWhat is the Senate’s impact on the administration?
continued from page 9
Q. What is the impact/influence of Senate 
on student opinion and administration 
views?
A. About student opinion, it is not the 
Senate who influences the students, but the 
students who influence Senate. The influ­
ence is greatest when the concerns are pres­
ented directly to Senate.
About the administration views, our 
impact is the power of persuasion only 
when we are persistent. Nevertheless, we 
(Senate) are heard.
Q. How would you increase student interest
and participation?
A. You can not force students to be inter­
ested. They only come to Senate when they 
have a problem they think Senate can deal 
with. In the past few years, steps have been 
taken to promote communication between 
the students and Senate.
Q. What issues are you working on with the 
administration?
A. Recendy, as a member of the Academic 
Affairs Committee, I have been working on 
problems with the architectural curriculum. ' 
We are looking into student involvement in 
reviewing professors’ tenure.Chemistry to culture: 
Laureates visit
continued from page 6
audience in mind when writing, as “The 
audience is something that the modem 
writer makes,” Bellow said. He began 
writing after being moved by things he had 
read.
“The primary thing is to be interesting,” 
he continued. “If they don’t eagerly turn the 
page, what is the game worth? Writers don’t 
have the right to bore people.”
William Lipscomb
The 1976 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was 
awarded to William Lipscomb, who spoke 
on his current research with enzymes at 
Mellon Institute last Friday.
Enzymes are large chemical compounds 
that occur naturally in all living organisms. 
They speed up other chemical reactions by
providing a site where these other reactions 
can take place. The enzyme, however, is not 
used up, and after it releases the product of 
the reaction, it can go on to speed other 
reactions.
Lipscomb has been using x-ray 
diffraction to discern the exact shape of 
enzymes, and how they can provide this 
binding site for other reactions without 
reacting themselves.
Some chemical compounds inhibit the 
function of enzymes, either by fitting into 
the binding site or into another site like a 
key and “turning off” the enzyme. He is 
looking into ways that these inhibitors can 
be used to fight cancer since “practically 
all...chemistry in the body is carried out by 
enzymes.”
Name: Lane Bess
Year: Sophomore
Major: Economics
Senate Experience: Since Fall ’80 as a
Finance Committee member.
Q. What is the impact/influence of Senate 
on student opinion and administration
views?
A. Unfortunately, Student Senate does not 
have enough influence on administrative 
views. The potential for influence exists. 
The desire of the students to be heard, how­
ever is not strong enough to give the admin­
istration ample reason to believe that many 
issues are of real importance to the students. 
A Student Senate which has strong support 
and a wealth of feedback could generate sub­
stantial pressure on, or influence adminis­
trative decisions.
Q. How would you increase student interest 
and participation in student government?
A. My solution to the apathy of the student 
body toward Student Senate is to promote 
feedback such as what is being done in this 
column. Through the availability of min­
utes (meeting reports) and the use of the 
main media source on campus, the Tartan, 
students can be informed of just what is 
happening or what is needed to make some­
thing happen.
Perhaps thoughts may be generated by 
such articles and interested readers will take 
time to send letters to the editor expressing 
desires on campus and ideas for the campus. 
By publishing such letters, readers may pay
STUDENTS WITH SLEEP 
DIFFICULTIES CAN FIND 
ASSISTANCE THROUGH 
MEDICAL CENTER RESEARCH
Many college students experience sleep difficulties. A research project to 
compare two treatments for insomnia is being conducted under the auspices 
of the Veterans Administration Medical Center and the Psychology Depart­
ment of Case Western Reserve University (Cleveland, Ohio).
Participants in the study will receive treatment for sleep problems. As a 
part of the research project, fees are waived in exchange for completing a 
number of questionnaires. The treatments have been shown to be effective in 
other studies and do not involve the use of drugs.
For a preliminary phase of the project, male volunteers are being sought. 
If you have difficulty falling asleep and would like further information 
about participating in the study, please call:
683-3000, ext. 334 
(8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. weekdays)
or
363-7495 
(evenings and weekends)
Ask for: Peter M.M. Barach 
Principal Investigator
particular attention to Senate to see how 
they handle real problems, real constituent 
complaints. In return, the solutions or pro­
posed solutions may finally take on the task 
of attaining their desires whether they 
involve Senate decisions or confrontations 
with the administration. The students must 
voice their DESIRESl
If there is a general feeling of support for 
these desires, Senate may honestly take steps 
with the full knowledge that they have a 
constituent leg to stand on.
Q. What issues are you working on with the
administration?
A. Senate work does not solely revolve 
around work with the administration. It is 
largely comprised of committee work.
Most of my time on Senate is devoted 
toward work on the Finance Committee. 
Most students are not aware that the 50 dol­
lars they contribute toward activities fees is 
pooled with that of the entire student body 
to total nearly $250,000. The Finance Com­
mittee is responsible for the dispersal of this 
money to the many clubs and organizations 
on campus.
Many students do not realize that the par­
ties at the “Common Grounds,” the movies 
at Doherty, lectures, etc....are funded 
through Senate. Personally, I think it is a 
shame that students who are interested in 
forming a club or organization, or are in j ust 
need of financial aid for their current organi­
zation, are not aware that they may seek this 
aid through their student Senate Finance 
Committee.
Addressing the quesiton (of work with the 
administration) is easy. Currently, not 
much. This situation is a direct result of the 
apathy I had mentioned earlier. Students 
who have grievances but do not bring them 
to the attention of Senate may never see their 
grievances resolved.
In closing, I urge that students become 
more aware of their Student Senate’s func­
tions; moreover I urge students interested in 
having complaints brought to the adminis­
tration’s attention to attend Senate meetings 
or seek one of your college Senators out!
O Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!J
Register for haircuttingclasses^ 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Ranh Center
Looking for?
work space, 
painting space, 
or 
photo space
Room available with 
high ceiling and large window 
Call Mike 781-6827

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 11
INFIDELITYR.E.O. SPQ-OVVAGON
The senior syndrome: What to do with that empty mailbox?
by Cheryl Schellenbeig
What do you picture when you think of a 
senior? If you are like most people, you see a 
person who is continually having a good 
time, sliding by on 36 units of gym courses 
and getting drunk every night. Well, con­
trary to popular belief, the dazed expressions 
and erratic moods of the senior aren’t always 
directly related to a hangover from the night 
before. As for the light course load, it is a 
necessity, not a luxury at this point in his 
life.
First of all, a senior is expected to spend a 
minimum of two hours each day pondering 
the question, “Exacdy what is my role in the 
never ending saga of the history of man­
kind?” Then there is the dme which must be 
directed toward finding a job or gaining 
admission to graduate school, or both— 
usually both. This way, if the first choice for 
future plans falls through, there is an 
alternative.
Getting into grad school involves decid­
ing on a specific major (the toughest part), 
finding schools which offer such a program 
(sometimes equally as difficult), and then 
being accepted. The last part isn’t so hard if 
the senior’s grades are perfect, he has excel­
lent faculty recommendations, he fills out 
all of the necessary forms and takes all of the 
required tests. These tests (GRE’s, MCAT’s, 
LSAT’s and/or GMAT’s) are simply a 
review of everything he’s forgotten, I mean 
learned, in four years at CMU, plus some 
things never seen. These are no problem if 
he has a photographic memory and an I.Q. 
of 175.
Searching for a job is just as complex a 
process. If the average senior could get credit 
for all of the time he puts into writing 
resumes, writing letters, filling in applica­
tions and interviewing, he would have grad­
uated with a triple major by now. On the 
brighter side, if he is unable to find a job in
his field, he will have so mastered his typing 
skills that he will easily find secretarial 
work.
One universal trait among seniors is total 
dependence on the mail box; it becomes the 
controlling force in the senior’s life. Each 
day, at least ten times a day (including 
nights and Sundays) he checks his 
mailbox— the result sets his mood until the 
next checking period. Just the thought that 
one day there will be a letter telling him 
exactly where he will be and what he will be 
doing in six months causes this obsession.
Any mail without a corporate or aca­
demic letterhead is immediately tossed aside. 
In the later stages of this syndrome, letters 
from friends are considered to be junk mail. 
Even rejections can be a welcome sight if 
they are the only indication after four 
months of waiting— that someone out there 
does acknowledge his existence. All of this is 
no fun at all for the mail box, which must
endure almost daily physical and verbal 
abuse.
So, if you have senior friend who is acting 
peculiar; exhibiting signs of sleeplessness, 
loss of appetite (all appetitesl), and the old 
mailbox syndrome, tell him where to go. 
Don’t say it in the nasty sense, of course, but 
despite all outward appearances of confi­
dence and certainty of direction, no senior 
really knows where he is going.
It is a lonely time for him now, so humor 
the senior telling him that you hope he stays 
nearby, or plans on going to a dty where 
you’ll eventually be living. If one day he 
announces that he has a job offer in Kuwait, 
say “Excellent! That’s exacdy where I want 
to go!” Don’t worry, you probably won’t be 
stuck with him; chances are he’ll figure out 
where he wants to be and will go there any­
way. But for now, at least let him pretend 
that someone will care where he is after 
graduation.
9 I» I 1 D H m «, O 1 
nor*» sp
To a generation raised on rock, the spirit of stereo is a band called REO Speedwagon.
After a decade on the road, on the radio, on TV and on the turntable, after the years of 
platinum and gold, this classic band has busted out with its biggest hit ever. It should 
come as no surprise. Hi Infidelity is in the great tradition of REO Speedwagon.
A well-earned name in the best game there is. ^ f O
El E NiNE LIVES | nÆÊL' 1 ^ S^fOVVAGON
o %
R.E.O. T.W.O.RIDIN'THI STORM OUT¦ %.C W.
^Produced by Kevin Cronin Gary Richrath Kevin Beomnh Co produced bv Aion Grotzer
I__________. v YOU GET WHAT YOU PtA* FQft
m * ¦» ¦ % ¦ i
Mono9*iwnt John Baructi Manoger
Epic! ^ore trademarks of CBS Inc C 1981 CBS Inc Av.IiUUjIO at yOUf fflVOritH reCOfft StOfC

---------------------------------------------------

S
o, you want to follow your academic 
career with challenging real-world 
problems but you are wary of Big 
Company Politics—and you’ve developed 
a healthy loathing of neckties and regi­
men. Is that what is bugging you Bunky? 
Well, cheer up and consider Megatest.
In just four years Megatest has become 
a major innovator in LSI Test Equipment.
Our machines test more microprocessors 
and EPROMS than anybody else’s. We in­
troduced the world’s first commercially 
available Magnetic Bubble Memory Test 
System. That’s not all—we’ve attained 
this standing in the industry while remain­
ing a small, friendly, employee-owned 
company. We’re young and we work like 
maniacs but we also devote a lot of time to 
having fun.
Research and Development— 
Santa Clara 
Computer Scientists (BS, MS, PhD.) 
Analog and Digital Engineers
FEAR
AND
LOATHING
IN
ELECTRONICS
We are now developing new testers for 
the astoundingly complex chips of the 
future. Tester design for anticipated 
semiconductor technology poses system 
design problems more varied and complex 
than today’s largest computer systems. 
Apart from the obvious hardware chal­
lenges, these new testers require a very 
sophisticated software environment. This 
includes special purpose language proces­
sors, powerful interactive development 
tools iand special operating system features.
If you’d like to work in an environment 
where effort and creativity, not politicking, 
are rewarded then one of the following 
jobs might be for you:
Sales and Marketing Support— 
Austin, Boston, Santa Clara 
Analog and Digital Engineers 
Computer Scientists
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26
at the Career Services and Placement Office 
Don’t bother dressing up for the interview.
MEGATEST CORPORATION
2900 Patrick Henry Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
(408) 988-1708 
Contact: Howard Marshall

---------------------------------------------------

inment._________________
Night roars into the Twenties in the Kresge Theatre
by Richard Gorelick
“Some are born great, some achieve great­
ness and some have greatness thrust upon 
’em”, and sometimes it’s a combination of 
all three. The Drama Department’s produc­
tion of Twejth Night might not be great, 
but it is certainly very good, sensible and 
I fun. The laws that apply to greatness also
¦ apply to very-goodness: A very' good theatri- 
I cal production is also a combination of sev-
M eral things.
Some productions are bom very good. 
I Some plays are very difficult to screw up.
¦ While people, if forced to choose, would
¦ admit to a preference for Shakespeare’s
9 tragedies over his comedies (for example, try'
¦ to recount the plot and characters in 
S Hamlet; then do the same for As You Like
U It), Shakespeare’s comedies sail work well 
I enough.
There is a certain art to setting up a joke, 
I or a sight gag, that is still practiced by mod- 
¦ em playwrights. Shakespeare may not have 
M invented this art, but he surely mastered it.
¦ When you see Twelfth Night, notice how a 
¦joke about yellow stockings develops. It is
¦ incredible: The mere mention of yellow
¦ stockings becomes painfully funny to the
¦ audience.
® Twelfth Night features a fractured love 
B triangle that would make Pythagoras weep
¦ in desperation. On the first side, there is the 
¦"< Duke Orsino languidly pining away for his
¦ neighbor Olivia. Olivia, however, is in 
J mourning for her late brother, and refuses
¦ Orsino’s intentions.
On the second side, there is the shipw- 
H recked Viola, posing as the eunuch Cesario,
! who anxiously pines away for her master, 
H Orsino.
Finally, on the base level there is Olivia, 
151 who whiningly pines away for Cesario
¦ (Viola), the transvestite servant that Orsino 
I has sent to deliver yet another tribute of
¦ affection.
Poor Viola (Cesario) will of course have 
nothing to do with Olivia. Poor Viola also 
because she was separated from her twin 
. brother Sebastian at the shipwreck. Viola,
¦ by the way, looks so much like Sebastian 
Ir that if, for some crazy reason, she decided to 
I ; dress up in men’s clothing and pull her hair 
I up (Cesario), there would be no one who
¦ could tell them apart.
These, then, are the romantic problems
¦ that must be solved in Twelfth Night. Like
¦ Shakespeare’s other comedies, these prob- 
Hlems will not be solved until the playwright 
U is dam good and ready to have everything
¿work out-round about Act V, scene iii. If 
| this sounds like an accusation of author 
«manipulation, it should.
Roger Cox plays Sir Toby Belch and Julia
Os trow is Maria
In Twelfth Night, the subplot is strong 
and memorable. Some of Shakespeare’s 
great comic characters have been squeezed 
into this bittersweet little story. 01iviaTs var­
ious housemates-her uncle, Sir Toby Belch, 
one of literatures great partiers; her maid, 
the scheming, randy Maria; Sir Anthony 
Aguecheek, a particularly bloodless suitor 
and Feste the fool- combine their forces in a 
treacherous plot to avenge the Putitanical, 
egotistical apple-shiner, Malvolio. Malvolio 
makes the mistake of threatening to reveal to 
Olivia the debauchery of her rowdy 
housemates.
This comedy is sweet when the partiers 
taste their first bite of revenge on Malvolio, 
but it becomes bitter when they begin to go 
too far.
The Drama Department, therefore, was 
presented with a promising play-a sturdy, if 
annoying romantic plot, an excellent sub­
plot, wonderful characters. And they did 
this play justice.
Some plays achieve very-goodness. There 
are about fifty people who are directly 
responsible for helping a play to achieve 
excellence. First of all, there is the director 
CMU brought in, Ame Zaslove, a CMU 
graduate, from the Floating Theatre in Seat­
tle to direct this show.
The most noticeable decision that Zaslove 
made in CMU’¿Twelfth Night was to set the 
play in the 1920’s. The place is called Illyria, 
but it feels like New England. In fact, eve­
ryone looks a lot like Jay Gatsby and Daisy.
In an interview with the Tartan, Zaslove 
said that CMU’s production “reflects the 
atmosphere of the 1920’s just before the 
crash, when everyone was letting loose 
between the two world wars.”
“no modem references, no 
hubba-hubbas, no Roosevelt 
jokes.”
The question is, of course, does this time 
change work. Well, it does work, it works 
ljust fine. It works partly because the lan­
guage has not been changed. Thankfully, 
there are no modem references, no hubba- 
hubbas, no Roosevelt jokes. After the Win­
ter’s Tale debacle of two years ago, everyone 
can breathe a sigh of relief-the text has 
remained intact.
It works also because the Twenties ¿5 such 
a perfect time for Twelfth Night. Our 
impressions of the carefree Twenties are the 
precise impresions that we should have of 
the Illyrian court. It is not accidental that the 
partiers become ugly to us, that the sexual 
attraction in this play is simply that-sexual, 
and that everyone is just a little too happy in 
the end.
We know Zaslove’s many comic scenes 
succeed because we hear ourselves laughing, 
but the romantic and dramatic scenes are 
another story.
Some of these scenes succeed. When the 
revellers imprison Malvolio in a small 
room, revealing Twelfth Night’s darker side 
the black comedy becomes stunning. Some 
scenes, unfortunately fall flat. The scenes 
with Viola and Olivia seem rushed, as if 
Zaslove is pushing for the next “funny 
part”.
The story of the separated twins, Sebas­
tian and Viola, is muddled. The shipwreck 
scenes are staged at a distance and the sound 
effects are distracting. These scenes also 
seem rushed. For the most part, it seems as if 
the romantic side of Twelfth Night was sacri­
ficed to the comedy. Whether this was a 
conscious decision or not, the result is still 
disappointing.
Phillip Safley, left, plays Orsino and Mary Jane Lewis is Viola in Twelfth Night at Kresge 
Theatre, February 12 to Feb. 21.
Another group of people responsible for a 
play’s achievement are the designers. Ainsile 
Bruneau’s costumes are attractive and 
appropriate. Aguecheek’s tennis togs and 
Sir Toby’s nightclothes provide rich laughs 
in themselves and Olivia’s wedding dress is 
especially stunning. Viola and Sebastian’s 
twin outfits, however, are somewhat drab. 
Perhaps Bruneau was aiming for a neutral 
quality for this pair of costumes, but there 
are other neutral colors than grey.
The set, designed with Art Deco in mind 
by Jody Glick is, above all, functional. She 
manages to provide the required Elizabe­
than structure to a modem setting. The set, 
however, does not shout out “1920’s”, and it 
seems to be a bit too sturdy and woody for 
the frivolous era being protrayed.
Larry Neff’s lighting has its high points, 
as in Malvolio’s haunting imprisonment 
scene, and its low points, in the unnecessary 
mid-scene changes that may only have been 
opening night malfunctions.
The unseen face that did the most, how­
ever, to make Twelfth Night wonderful was 
Michelle DiBucci. This wonderful com­
poser has not only provided Twelfth Night 
with wonderful Dixieland, jazz and blues 
music, but she has also scored Shakespeare’s 
Twelfth Night lyrics. These songs are all 
sung by Feste the fool and they are all per­
fectly beautiful.
Then of couse, there are the people on 
stage, the actors who are the audience’s most 
direct contact with a production. The actors 
in comedic roles were more successful than 
the romantic players in Twelfth Night.
Victo Stein is a tender, subdued Feste. It 
would have been foolish for him to have
tried to upstage the play’s more outrageous 
characters. He delivers his lines with care 
and precision and succeeds with one of the 
play’s toughest roles.
Alex Corcoran is Malvolio, and he does a 
commendable job of speaking Seventeenth 
Century verse with a Twentieth Century 
tongue. Malvolio remains the ass he always 
was, but he becomes also the modem ver­
sion of Shakespeare’s ass.
Karl Stump and Julie Ostrow have some 
wicked moments as Aguecheek and Maria, 
repectively. Stump’s first entrance in Act I is 
one of the play’s funnier sights and Ostrow’s 
Maria takes the proper turn from mischie- 
vious fun to just plain cruelty. Costrow will 
be sharing the role of Maria with Gale Joel 
Grate.
Among the romantic players, Phil Safley 
as the shallow, languid Orsino, has the 
brightest moment. In the play’s first scene, 
when he is listening to some of Dibucci’s 
torrid strains, his actions are inspired: He 
manages to set the evening’s mood by 
simply sitting down.
Some plays have very-goodness thrust 
upon ’em. If anyone ever thrust success 
upon a play, it is Roger Cox. Cox plays Sir 
Toby Belch like he was bom to play the role. 
It is a remarkable performance. Nobody 
looks like Cox or talks like him. Only John 
Wool in the Country Wife has received such 
sustained appreciative laughter from a 
CMU audience this year.
CMU’s Twelfth Night is very close to 
being great. There has to be more attention 
paid to the romantic side of the play. Wre 
should care more than we did on opening 
night about the play’s conclusion.
The Rave-Ups go West
by Paul Smith
The Rave-Ups are Mike Kaniecki, 
Jimmer Podrasky, George Carter, and Vic­
tor McPoland. All but Victor are former 
CMU students, and their large local follow­
ing includes many CMU students and 
faculty. Tartan staffer Paul Smith was asked 
to report on their recent trip to Los Angeles.
What did you expect? If you lived in a 
culture that only wanted to masturbate and 
eat, (the USA, for instance) and you wanted 
to show it a mirror, you’d have to srmd 
where that culture went to get lunch and a 
hard-on. So when Bob McGrath asked the 
Rave-Ups to come to Los Angleles, they 
went. What did you expect?
This was the story: Bob McGrath, a grad­
uate of the CMU Drama department was 
directing a production of Sam Shephard’s 
The Tooth Of Crime, with the Pacific Rep­
ertory Company in Hollywood. The play 
called for an on-stage rock band, and that 
was the Rave-Ups part. Off they went.
We stayed here and heard rumours. We 
heard the play went well. We heard they 
were playing at parties and bars now. The 
Surf-Punks loved them.
(Surf-Punks?)
(Yes! Surf-Punks! in L.A. the dead trends 
copulate and produce offspring. Look for 
Acid-Disco in ’81.)
Then there was a story about George Car­
ter getting hit-and-run by some gent who 
had tried to pick him up, or something. 
They were recording, that was the word, 
recording a single. They were doing real 
well. But they hated L.A.
Then they were back. What was the story?
Here is an outline for the screenplay, with 
a rough scene sketched in.
The Rave-Ups arrive in Hollywood and 
start rehearsal for the show. The musical 
director is a veteran erf The Archies. (No one 
really dies.) Within two days he is gone, and 
our boys rewrite most of the songs. (Michael,
continued on page 15

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
Paul Newman takes on N.Y. in Fort Apache: The Bronx
by Kathy Barsom 
Paul Newman, most recently acclaimed 
for his production of the television movie, 
“The Shadow Box,” brightens the silver 
screen with his portrayal of a sympathetic 
street cop in the toughest neighborhood in 
New York, the Bronx.
The movie revolves around the everyday 
brutal realities that face the men and women 
of the 41st precinct (affectionately referred to 
as Fort Apache), and one man’s struggle to 
understand and accept the hopeless environ­
ment in which he works.
The explosive situation in the Bronx 
comes to a climax when a bureaucratic cap­
tain (Edward Asner) proposes a hard-line,. 
mass arrest policy that proves to be useless. 
The crowds protest, and riots between the 
police and citizens erupt. In one such con­
frontation, Newman and his younger 
partner (Ken Wahl) witness the murder of 
an innocent man by a fellow officer. The 
senseless killing stimulates Newman to 
analyze his life, relationship», and the moral­
ity of being one of New York’s finest.
Despite many tense, violent, and disturb­
ing scenes, Fort Apache, The Bronx is not 
without its humerous moments. Newman’s
encounters with various characters, includ­
ing a suicidal transvestite and a lunatic 
armed with a butcher’s knife, combined 
with the detached wit and personalities of 
the men of the 41st, prove to be entertaining.
Fort Apache, The Bronx grants Paul 
Newman the long overdue oppurtunity to 
display his many talents as an actor. Unfor­
tunately, this is not the case with his co-stars.
Edward Asner is perfectly cast as the cap­
tain whose tough personality greatly resem­
bles Asner’s television character, Lou Grant. 
Although his character has potential, Asner 
is not given the chance or sufficient time to 
develop and give depth to his role as the new 
captain of Fort Apache.
Ken Wahl, who plays Newman’s partner 
in the film, also has a limiting role. Unlike 
Asner, he appears in a great percentage of 
the movie, but his character is really never 
given the oppurtunity to evolve. His inexpe­
rience as a cop and his outlook on life does 
provide a wonderful contrast to Newman’s 
character who is divorced and has served on 
the force for eighteen years.
Fort Apache’s social implications have 
been the cause of recent disturbances in the 
New York area. Despite an introductory
paragraph commenting that the movie is in 
no way attempting to make a statement 
about the situation or the people of the 
Bronx, the black and Puerto Rican people 
that inhabit the area, as well as the police are 
infuriated by the negative way in which they 
are portrayed. Presently, policemen are stati-
by Scott Schaffer
Imagine a rock band that doesn’t hide 
behind dry ice fog and a colossal light show. 
Imagine a band that doesn’t want fame or 
fortune, but only to play the music that they 
like best. Picture a group that enjoys per­
forming without showing off. If your 
imagination has run dry, then you weren’t 
among the full house in the Skibo ballroom 
last Sunday night.
The Dixie Dregs were the hosts that even­
ing, and succeeded in entertaining the parti­
san crowd without gimmicks, pretensions, 
or even vocals—only music.
While the ensemble comes from the 
South, they certainly aren’t a “southern 
rock” band. Even though their jazz-rock-
oned around New York theaters showing 
the movie to control angry crowds.
Fort Apache, the Bronx is definitely not 
the most dynamic movie of the year. How- 
ever, the movie is action-packed and Paul 
Newman’s acting is admirable.
classical-country-bluegrass fusion seems to 
draw from unrelated sources, Dixie Dregs 
have a homogenous style, one which is as 
original as any in rock music.
Led by guitar prodigy Steve Morse, the 
quintet frolicked through tune after tune as 
if each member was an inseparable and vital 
component of a single machine. The songs 
themselves were complex tapestries of vary, 
ing textures, temp>os, and time signatures 
often formed around mindboggling guitar 
riffs. Violinist Allen Sloan, bassist Andy West, 
and keyboardist T. Lavitz had to stay on 
their toes to add their countermelodies and 
harmonies to Morse’s dexterity.
The Dixie Dregs not only sounded snug, 
but also looked pretty sharp. West, a reassur­
ing, humorous paternal figure was the 
emcee, the only group member with a mic, 
rophone. Sloan with his dark eyes and dia­
bolical grin, wouldn’t look right doing 
anything but playing the violin. Lavitz and 
drummer Rod Morgens tein were clearly 
doing what they liked best, and Morse, with 
a calm confidence made one think that he 
could cure inflation and unemployment 
while playing a solo.
From the opening chords of “Take it Off 
the Top,” to the final encores, “Gina Lola 
Breakdown,” and a frenzied version of the 
classic, “Dixie,” the Dregs never lost the 
attention or enthusiasm of the audience, 
Playing pieces from each of their four 
albums, every band member had ample 
opportunity to demonstrate his improvisa- 
tional talents. Dueling solos between Morse 
and Sloan were particularly effective.
For all their intensity, the group didn’t 
lose their sense of humor. In the middle of 
an extended jam late in the show, they broke 
into a fifteen second Devo imitation sans 
warning. Likewise, their satirical “Disco 
Dregs” underlined the spirit of the 
evening—everyone was having a good time.
Steve Morse stated that “when you have 
vocals, you can repeat the music—you can 
get the kind of repetition that lends itself to 
massive audience appeal, which is great for 
the business end of it. But this music is more 
challenging to write and play, and just do." 
Last Sunday, night the Dixie Dregs had 
massive audience appeal without selling out 
to commercial tastes.
Pregnant?
And you didn’t mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
ABORTION
• free pregnancy tests
• confidential counseling
WOMEN’S HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
FIUMI KIRS onta NUI! » MB IHH SDK IH IM ¦ Hill II MS lilt If! RII Ml IMH HUH I MI mil WU IH »SS SI» UHI SHI Uli 
RKSTMcno «an min um im um im mí h ih sum mi mi n n whim i un 1110
Copyright í MCMLXXXI by Paiamoti« Pictures Corpoiation All Rights Resei vedUNDER 17 lEQUMES «CCOMPAMTIM 
HUKIT M AMU ÍUMDMINOW SHOWING
DOWNTOWN
FULTON
I 101 Sixth St./2S 1-4356I
MONÍOEV1UÍ
CINE METTE EAST
«
Monro*vill* M«ll/371-6145 ¦
BOUTE 51 SOUTH
CINEMA WORLD
McKNICHT CINEMA
CINEMA WORLD
^NgrwwHH8fj^jw^/t<3jéjKjO^J
SHOWCASE CINEMAS
lâfüCT PARKWAY WFST K ROUTfc bO 
ffr J I ROBINSON TOWNSHIP
7ft 7 V88 ? 7b*)í%A+*mAJ* *A’>Nf I f 3 OC FIRST SQ*t *
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
tocNfljr
Dixie Dregs blast Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 15
The Untold Story: The Rave-Ups go Hollywood and come right back
continued from page 13 
voice-over): “The way he wanted us to do 
the songs was just not interesting. They 
were complex, but just not exciting at all.”
The play runs for three weeks from the 
end of October into November, three nights 
a week. It gets good reviews locally, and it 
gets Pacific Repertory a step above the ‘fight­
ing to survive’ position. And there they are, 
on a six foot-raised platform, upstage-left. 
On Fridays after the show they perform sets 
of their own material, and the audiences 
think they are hot. So they are going. 
Except. . . well—
George hasn’t taken to L.A. In fact he 
hates the place.
Sketch of Scene on Santa-Monica Blvd.
George is plastered, and in a bad mood. 
L.A. is a bloody infinite Monroeville. And 
he’s out for a walk by himself in the warm 
plastic night. Percodans and Tequila, plas­
tered, mean, and hungry.
And Santa-Monica Boulevard is where he 
ends up, somehow, the place for fancy 
Voung Men who fancy young men. Christ. 
Into a restaurant, plastered; mean, and 
hungry.
And the fat 34 year old male at the counter 
looks and says, “Listen, we’re not going to
serve you.”
“Well, I just want some food, that’s 
okay.” It’s a Pennsylvania boy reaction. Pen­
nsylvania where they worry about serving 
drinks to college students, and George 
thinks that’s what the problem is. “I’m not 
going to drink.”
“No, we’re not going to serve you.” A ’go 
away boy’ stare.
George is plastered, mean, and hungry. 
He stares back.
“We’re not going to serve you, please 
leave.”
“Well... well F-k You, man, where’s the 
f--king manager?” LOUD.
“I’m the manager.”
Close-up on George, pissed. Close-up on 
the man, solid. George again. He spits.
Medium shot, George walks out of the res­
taurant, the man takes a napkin from the 
counter, and wipes the spit from his face.
Wide shot of Santa-Monica Boulevard, 
then George, walking along outside me park­
ing lane, against the traffic. The cars; Rab­
bits, Alfas, maybe a Corvette, swerve to miss 
the blond kid.
“Come on, you f—kers, hit me! I dare you, 
cocksuckers, run me over! F-king scum, 
you suck! You Suck!” He stands in the mid­
dle of the lane and the boys all cruise by and 
whistle and call out.
And------------Wait a minute.
What is this, a movie? Standing in the 
middle of the street, George waits for some­
one to say “Cut,” in the story of the innocent 
lad down and dirty in plastic town. What I 
should do is go home, go to bed, and forget 
about this day. He heads for the sidewalk 
finally, just walks back up the boulevard to 
WHAMP!
The red MG that has j ust bounced George 
off a parked Buick screeches still. (George’s 
voice over action); “It took a minute before I 
knew. . . I just lay there for a bit. The guy 
was being so nice, he got me to the sidewalk, 
and he’s talking about getting an ambu­
lance, and I’m thinking, ‘no ambulance, no 
police, I’m so stoned,’ and I’m bleeding, the 
back of my head. And all of a sudden this 
guy has his hand on my genitals, I thought, 
‘OK, time to leave.’ So I just ran, all the way 
back to our apartment in north 
Hollywood.”
Cut to the Emergency room, George and 
Bob leaving, George with five stitches in his 
head, and a bill that probably won’t get paid 
for a while.
George is calmer than usual for the rest of 
the stay.
They second weekend of the show goes 
well. A freelance casting director, in the 
audience to check out some of the actors, 
approaches Jimmer and Mike after the 
show. She’s had her eye on them, and wants 
them to come for an interview. Is this a
movie?
Well, maybe, maybe not. She likes them, 
they talk, she says they could have parts in 
the pilot of “The Goodbye Girl,” but she 
doesn’t push it, because she knows it will be 
trash. Besides, they’re going back to Pitts­
burgh too soon. But keep in touch, she says, 
if you comeback. Michael is excited, because 
she knows people at Hanna-Barbara, and he 
wants to do voice for cartoons. Jimmer says, 
“can you put me in the movies?” She says, 
“Sure. When will you be back?”
Maybe L.A. isn’t all that bad.
Then comes The Connection. Bob Bou- 
liot, a friend of Bob McGrath, and a record­
ing engineer for people like Neil Young and 
Graham Nash. He hears them, is impressed, 
ancLgets them some studio time. They cut a 
45 version of “Bo Derek,” and Bouliot is so 
impressed that he starts playing it for 
influential friends. Meanwhile the show 
closes, and the four lads head for San 
Francisco.
San Francisco is quickly recognized as the 
Place They Wanna Be. They headline a few 
nights at Hie Mabuhay, and just knock ’em 
dead. The surf-punks all get up and dance.
When it’s time to go back to Pennsylvania 
in December, they leave a four-track tape of 
most of their songs with Bouliot, so that he 
has more to play for people than just one 
song. And they go. Back to the Heights, the 
Banana, South Oakland, and the familiar 
jumping black swarm of an audience.
But never fear, In January the call comes 
from Sun City; Warner Brothers wants to 
hear all the stuff. Someone was impressed.
And the new story is this: Back to L.A. in 
March, dates to record, and dates at The 
Whiskey (-a Go-Go, remember?). And who 
knows. Stay tuned, because the rumours are 
bound to fly real soon again, and this movie 
has a few more hours to it. And meanwhile, 
you must go to the Electric Banana on 
Bigelow Blvd. this Saturday.
TIRED OF 
POOR 
DORM CONDITIONS? 
BUT ENJOY THE 
CONVENIENCE OF 
ON-CAMPUS HOUSING?
—There are several of us here at CMU who are. To counteract this, we are trying to get a 
CO-ED house right on campus. It would be kept KOSHER. If you are interested or have any 
questions please contact:
Joanie — x4228 or Rob — x4645 
—Contact us as soon as possible; Housing must know about our decision now.
Lunch meeting, Tues Feb 24, 12:30 Rm 12 Skibo. RSVP Sue 563-1583
Parsons School of Design Summer in France
Parsons in Paris «July 3-August14
Paint on the Left Bank,explore prehistoric caves in the • 
Dordogne, visit the masterpieces of Renaissance Art 
in Tuscany.^
Courses include: Painting, Drawing, Art History, French 
History, Language & Literature, Landscape Painting & 
Prehistoric Anthropology. Cost for the 6-week program 
including 9 credits of study, round-trip airfare and double 
occupancy accommodations with continental breakfast 
is $2350l i
Photography in Paris • July 3-26
Study the history and practice of this art with extensive 
darkroom facilities available on the Parsons campus. 
Courses offered: The History of Photography, Photography. 
Program costs including 6 credits of study, round-trip 
airfare and double occupancy accommodations with 
breakfast in a 4-star hotel are $2150.
Fashion Design in Paris • July 3-31
Study the history and contemporary trends of French 
fashion design in Paris under the supervision of museum 
staff and practicing designers. Haute Couture and 
ready-to-wear collections will be seen.
Courses offered: The History of European Costume, 
Contemporary Trends in French Fashion.
The total cost for 6 credits of study, round-trip airfare 
and double occupancy accommodations in a 4-star hotel 
is $2250.
Studies in Interior Design, 
The History of Architecture, 
and The Decorative Arts • July 3-31
This program is offered in collaboration with the world 
famous Musee des Arts Décoratifs. The museum staff 
supplement the Parsons faculty with specialized presen­
tations that include aspects of the museum's collection 
normally not available to the public. Excursions to points 
outside of Paris include Fontainebleau, Versailles and 
Vaux le Vicomte.
Courses offered: The History of French Architecture, 
Studies in European Decorative Arts.
The total cost for 6 credits of study, round-trip airfare 
and double occupancy accommodations in a 4-star hotel 
is $2250.
Dean Vieri R. Salvadori 
Parsons School of Design 
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N Y. 10011 
ATTN: R*RIS PROGRAMS
Please send brochure(s) on:
? Parsons in Paris. July 3-Aug. 14
? Interior Design, July 3-31
? Photography in Paris, July 3-26
? Fashion Design in Paris, July 3-31
Name________________________________
Address- 
City_____State_.Zip_

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
Diplomat Barkan discusses Israeli situation
by Alice Alfonsi
Israeli diplomat Nimrod Barkan visited 
Pittsburgh last Thursday. Consolate Barkan 
discussed the current situation in Israel 
including the conflict with the Palestinians, 
the 132% inflation rate, the changing role of 
women, and his view of American college 
students.
According to Barkan, outside of America 
the American student gives the impression 
of being very idealistic - so idealistic that the 
would not be willing to listen. However, 
Barkan has talked with a number of stu­
dents since his arrival in Philadelphia in 
1979, and he feels that the American student 
is very willing to listen. On the whole, Bar­
kan said, "The American student is broad
minded. He is idealistic, which is nice. I mean 
when will you be idealistic, when you are 
97 and worrying about your social 
security?”
Barkan himself was a student at Hebrew 
University where he graduated with a mas­
ters degree in history and international rela­
tions. At 28 he is the youngest of the 8 
diplomats in the U.S. and is a bit idealistic 
himself. “Israel's main desire is peace,” said 
Barkan, “We did not establish a state to fight 
a 30 years long war. We established the state 
to promote educauon, to promote the well­
being of people in Israel and everywhere.”
Barkan has found that students quite 
often are not aware of the complexities of 
international reladons, “and the tragic sor­
did choices that everybody who is in this
terrible business has to do.”
Some of those sordid choices involve 
Israel's decisions concerning the Palestini- 
ans and the Palestine Liberation Orginiza- 
tion (PLO). Barkan feels that the Camp 
David talks and resulting peace between 
Israel and Egypt “was one of the major 
developments of the last decade.” Within 
the Camp David framework Israel is offer­
ing the Palestinians the establishment of a 
Palestinian autonomy on the West Bank 
that will give the Palestinians a form of 
national self-expression. Jordan's popula­
tion is about 80% Palestinian. Thus, tlie 
Palestinian state could be located in Jordan. 
Barkan feels that such an autonomy must 
only be offerred on a limited basis because a 
Palestinian state will only be a “spring­
board for the war against Israel.”
When asked why Israel is not speaking 
with the PLO, Barkan made a careful dis. 
iLDfiion between the Palestinians and the 
PLO. “Israel does not want to speak with 
the PLO. The PLO refuses to acknowledge 
Israel's right to exist. Would you,” asked 
Barkan vehemently,“speak with somebody 
who is mugging you?” According to Bar­
kan, the PLO does not represent the Palesti­
nian people, but is instead terrorizing the 
Palestinians on the West Bank into refusing 
to talk with Israel.
The economy of Israel is different from 
that of the U.S. At this time, Israel’s inflation
rate reaches 132% while the U.S. wieghs in at 
about 13%. When asked how the Israelis are 
continued on page 22
Election rules and constitutional amendments debated
by Jennifer Hutton
At last Tuesday’s meeting, members of 
Student Senate discussed delaying the 
spring elections. Since the date of the elec­
tion is limited by the Senate Constitution, a 
constitutional amendment is needed to 
change it
According to Robert’s Rules, a constitu­
tional amendment is presented at one meet­
ing, tabled from discussion, and then voted 
on at the next meeting.
Nina Houska, chairperson, however, felt 
that Senators needed to express their views 
and allowed the topic to be discussed for five 
minutes, after Lane Bess (H&SS) moved that 
elections be held the first or second week of 
April effective this year.
Bess and Rich Hanusek, Finance chair­
man, both expressed concern that the 
budgets of the various Senate supported 
organizations would not be finished before 
the elections. Hanusek explained that it 
would be very difficult for new senators to 
immediately pick up this task.
Bob Holste, Rules commitee chairman, 
objected to the amendment on the grounds 
that election petitions had already been 
announced in The Tartan. He felt that a 
delay in the elections would greatly discour­
age prospective Senators because many of 
those who had submitted petitions would be 
required to resubmit them.
Chairman of Academic Affairs, Doug 
Carney, also expressed concern; “Elections
Colleges of Pittsburgh Presents
James Taylor
& HIS BAND
SAT. FEB. 21 - 7:30 P.M. 
Stanley Theatre
Tickets available at Stanley Theatre Box Office 
ALSO available at:
Skibo Desk $12.75
Tickets by
0 PHONE IT 
765-2266
Use VISA or Mastercharge
that even hint at what happened last year 
will spell trouble for Senate.”
After the discussions, the amendment was 
tabled until next week.
In other election news, the Rules Com­
mittee made several motions pertaining to 
Senate elections. Bob Holste suggested that 
Senate expand the ban on candidates, pos­
ters, and campaigning from twenty feet 
from the poles to sixty feet. Holste explained 
that, particularly in Skibo, candidates had 
simply measured twenty feet from the vot­
ing area and plastered posters all over the 
walls, which according to Holste “defeats 
the whole purpose of the rule.”
The Rules Committee also recommended 
that students who attempt to vote twice or 
outside their college and candidates who 
“compromise the conduction of a fair cam­
paign” be subjected to disciplinary mea­
sures by the election board with approval by 
the University disciplinary concil.
A new campaign expenditures limit was 
suggested by Holste which raises the limit 
from $20 to $35 for senators and from $50 to 
$100 for candidates running for President. 
The above motions were passed by Senate.
Academic Affairs
The Academic Affairs committee pres­
ented a resolution that an educational devel­
opment plan be submitted by the 
Architecture Department. Doug Camey, 
committee chairman, explained why he felt 
an educational development plan was 
needed for the Architecture Department; 
“The plan is a road map for a department in 
that it presents a core curriculum. The 
Architecture Department has not had one 
since Sauer (Head of the Architecture 
Department) took office two years ago.” The 
resolution will be voted on at next week’s
Senate meeting.
In an effort to improve the committee’s 
relations with the student body, the Aca­
demic Affairs committee announced an 
advertising campaign to promote student 
input on tenure and promotion decisions. 
The campaign, which will begin February 
23rd, will take the form of posters, direct 
mailing, and advertising in The Tartan. 
Camey commented that this lack of com­
munication between students and the com­
mittee has been a major stumbling block to 
the committee’s effectiveness and he hoped 
the campaign would cause students to 
respond.
Finance Committee
Student response caused Rich Hanusek, 
Finance chairman, to make a joint motion 
that senate allocate an additional $176 to the 
computer club and $360.78 to The Thistle. 
The Computer Club requested the grant in 
order to complete the purchase of a Pana 
sonic 1310V color monitor which will be 
used as a means to draw more members. The 
staff of The Thistle asked for additional 
funds in order to pay for photography 
equipment that was lost by the 1979 I1 
staff. The motion was passed unanimously.
General Campus
In other committee news, General Cam 
pus Affairs and Information Committee 
chairman, Steve Sniith announced that 
Campus Security promised to install a cam­
pus phone in the darkroom on the fourth 
floor of Baker Hall. Smith added that Secur 
ity Chief Westbrooks was very receptive to 
the idea and urged students who see a need 
for a campus phone to request one.
Student Senate meets every Tuesday even­
ing at 6:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room.
Biomedical Engineering Symposium
will be held Monday, March 2, 1981 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, 
beginning at 9 a.m. Graduate students of Carnegie-Mellon University 
and affiliates of the University of Pittsburgh Medical School will 
present talks on their research.
The Public Is Invited
Dr. Pietro Gullino, chief, Laboratory of Pathophysiology, National Cancer 
Institute will discuss “The Pathology of Tumors” at 9:15 a.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans falter and lose to Gators, barely edge Thiel
by Denny Postufka
With only two weeks remaining in the 
season, the Tartans still hold on to first place 
but the race is getting tighter every week. On 
Wednesday, the Tartans managed to fight 
back and overcome an eleven point deficit to 
defeat Thiel 61-60. On Saturday, Allegheny 
came to town and dealt the Tartans their 
WOrst defeat of the season, 91-72. This 
moved Allegheny to within one game of 
CMU.
The Tartans played a sloppy game on 
YVednesday and had their opponents been 
anyone besides hapless Thiel, they might 
have come out with two losses last week. 
The Tartans started out very sluggish, ena­
bling Thiel to jump out in front by nine in 
the first four minutes of the game. The cold 
shooting continued throughout the half, 
and the Tomcats took an eleven point lead 
into the locker room at halftime.
The Plaid came out firing in the second 
half, quickly coming back to tie the game 
up in thé first five minutes. It was a seesaw 
battle the rest of the way. With less than a 
minute left, Thiel had the ball, along with a 
three point lead. CMU had to foul to get the 
ball back, and when they did Thiel missed 
the freethrow. The Tartans then came down 
and scored to pull back to within one.
The next time down the Tartans put full 
court pressure on the Tomcats. Some good 
defense by Buddy Hobart caused a bad pass, 
which resulted in an over-and-back call and 
CMU had a chance to win with twenty 
seconds left. Carl Mulac was able to break 
open underneath and hit a layup to give the 
Tartans a 61-60 lead. The Tomcats husded
to put up a final shot, but the twenty-foot 
jumper bounced out, giving the Tartans the 
win.
Joe Belechak and Dave Hofmeister both 
chipped in with 15 points to take the scoring 
honors for the Tartans.
The Allegheny game was a complete rev­
ersal from the last contest in Meadville, in 
which the Tartans led the whole way en 
route to a fourteen point win.
After five minutes in the game, the Tar­
tans never regained the lead. It was confer­
ence leading scorer Phil Murphy who 
possessed the hot hand for the Gators. 
Murphy pumped in 23 points, followed by 
Darryl Dawson’s 18. Allegheny shot an 
astronomical 60% from the field, compared 
to CMU’s 44.8%.
Joe Belechak led the Tartans with 19 
points, including his 1000th career point in 
the Tartan uniform. Dave Hofmeister fol­
lowed with 17 points, and led with eight 
rebounds.
This week the Tartans take the road 
Ohio on Wednesday and Saturday as they 
face John Carroll, then Hiram.
PAC STANDINGS
CMU
Allegheny
Bethany
W&J
Case Western 
John Carroll 
Hiram 
Thiel
0.800
.700
Tartan teams in action this week
Wed. Feb. 18 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL CMU vs. Selon Hill
Thu. Feb. 19 
Sat. Feb. 21
MEN’S BASKETBALL
FENCING
FENCING
SWIMMING
HOCKEY
MEN’S BASKETBALL
CMU vs. John Carroll 
CMU vs. Indiana 
CMU vs. WVU & Oberlin 
CMU vs. Allegheny 
CMU vs. West Virginia 
CMU vs. Hiram
(H) 7 PM 
(A) 8 PM 
(H) 6 PM 
(H) Noon 
(H) 2 PM 
(A) 3 PM 
(A) 8 PM
CMUFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Mulac3-74-610
Hobart3-105-611
Hofmeister6-115-717
Donahoe4-110-08
Belechak7-115-619
Bennett3-81-27
Miklasevich0-00-20
Lewis0-00-00
Hudson0-00-00
Novak0-00-00
Resnik0-00-00
TOTALS26-5820-2972
AlleghenyFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Murphy10-183-423
Dawson7-114-518
Contardi2-54-58
Jones6-82-514
Nesdore5-93-413
Williams5-53-413
Miller1-40-02
TOTALS36-6019-2791
Joe Belechak goes around to put up one of his nineteen points against the Gators. Belechak 
broke the 1000th point mark of his CMU career at last Saturday's game.
ThielFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
O’Brien7-190-314
Curran9-191-219
Wortman3-61-17
Crabb1-5 -0-02
Staats6-80-012
Cherry3-90-16
Bokisa0-00-00
paprof29-662-760
CMUFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Mulac5-70-310
Hobart4-141-19
Hofmeister5-65-815
Belechak7-161-115
Donahoe3-120-06
Bennett2-50-06
Bennett2-50-04
Miklasevich1-10-02
paprof27-617-1361
All stand

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
.¦I-—... I I ¦ .i—nii
CMU’s Top Jocks: Meet
by Mark Knapp
The CMU basketball team currently 
stands number one in the President’s 
Athletic Conference and boasts an eight and 
two record. One of the main reasons for their 
success is the sophomore sensation Carl 
Mulac.
Mulac is an AMS major with plans of 
eventually attending law school, but for 
now he puts on a Tartan uniform and 
amazes crowds at every CMU basketball 
game. Mulac recendy had back-to-back 24 
point games and scored the winning basket 
in an overtime battle with Case Western.
The roots of his ability can be traced back 
to his high school coaches and his ten years 
of play. At Plum Senior High School, 
Coach Hank Kuzma taught Mulac the bas­
ics and a serious attitude about playing bas­
ketball. Mulac was eventually picked to play 
with the WPIAL All-Stars against the city 
Catholic League All-Stars in the Kiwanis 
Classic. During the summer, he plays in the 
local Boyce Summer League, a haven for 
local college and high school stars. This 
past summer, Mulac led his team to a second 
place finish amidst the extremely tough 
competition.
Mulac feels, “Coach Maloney has made 
me more mentally tough and given me the 
winning attitude.” Yet he attributes his 
recent success to the other Tartan players, 
“The whole team has been behind me all the 
way and encourages me every game.”
One of the rather unique aspects of Mul- 
ac’s basketball career has been his parent’s 
support. “My parents are always behind me,
Carl Mulac
Segmiller boosts women
and in fact, just reoendy, they traveled to 
Cleveland just to see me play!” Mulac says 
with a boyish smile.
Mulac’s fan club, however, not only con­
sists of his parents but also his girlfriend 
Sherri Wolfgang and a group of Donner 
first floor buddies. Sherri is a CMU cheer­
leader and gives a special cheer every time 
Mulac scores another basket. As for the bud­
dies, they help Mulac celebrate his success 
after every game.
The CMU women’s basketball team 
avenged an earlier loss to Carlow Col­
lege, 84-75, at Skibo Gym last Tuesday 
night.
CMU dominated Carlow from the 
outset, employing a full court press that 
forced several Carlow turnovers. The 
Plaid-scored nine of the first ten points, 
then built up a 31-13 bulge with eight 
minutes remaining in the first half. The 
visitors never got closer than six points 
after that,as the Tartans managed to hold 
on and record the victory.
Kassie Segmiller tallied 24 points for 
the Tartans, leaving the junior forward 
three points short of one thousand for her 
CMU career. Debbie Durr tied Segmiller 
for high scoring honors and received 
praise from Coach Gene Klein for her 
work on the boards as well.
Mulac plans to play for CMU the rest of 
his undergraduate studies but for now hopes 
to work with the team towards a PAC cham­
pionship. The way the team and Mulac are 
playing, it looks as though CMU can count 
on another trophy in the case.
Durr led the squad with 13 rebounds, 
and outplayed Carlow’s bigger center 
throughout the game. CMU also received 
strong performances from Judy Ander­
son, Valerie Brandt, and Isabelle Petoud.
On Saturday the women clutched 
another win as they beat St. Francis 72-69. 
Segmiller, the Tartans’ leading scorer 
with an average of 20.1 points a game, 
again led CMU by putting in 30 points. 
Durr followed with 14 points.
The highlight of the game came when 
Segmiller broke the 1000th career point 
goal. She broke the mark on the same day 
Joe Belechak of the men’s team did, a 
doubly rare event. Segmiller now stands 
at 1027 career points.
The women return to the court 7PM 
Wednesday to entertain Seton Hill at
CARL MULAC
Chem Es! Met Es! 
Op Research Majors!
iS/C/M
WORTH LOOKING INTO
We invite you to look at hard facts. Look at our growth in the last decade, 
from $860 million in sales in 1970 to almost $2 billion today. Look at the 
track records of our five core businesses: chemicals, coatings, paper, food 
and consumer products. All command leading positions in the markets 
they serve. And look at our product lines (more than 100 of them) 
ranging from typewriters and paper to fine chemicals and the most 
technologically advanced coatings systems in the world.
Visit mill Com|xim rrim-iiiiljHivrN Cssnh ghsi ssf- t;mvi Uiiihi«v
Look into SCM — you might see your future.
h h. 21 Cn 7:<M> p.m.
Room I.') Skilttt 
K< IioIiiim Ills mia<xI
BBS.SCM CORPORATION 
SCM is an Equal Opportunity Employer
5KFJOIN OUR GROWING INDUSTRIAL TEAM!
SKF—the world’s largest manufacturer of bearings 
has immediate openings for qualified candidates 
in several Career Development Programs.
• Manufacturing
• Applications
• Design
• Sales
• International
SKF manufactures, sells and distributes thousands 
of ball and roller bearing variations—Exact 
Bearings that range in size from V2" OD to 
86" OD and weigh from less than one ounce to 
more than six tons. SKF rolling bearings are 
designed to meet every type requirement from 
home appliances and cars to jet aircraft engines, 
construction, mining, printing, farming and machine 
tool applications.
SKF Career Development Programs are designed 
to help you broaden your skills through diverse 
training with the industry’s marketing and 
engineering leaders!
You get on-the-job experience as well as formal 
classroom lectures ... functional responsibilities 
... multiple department exposure. You’ll find 
challenge and opportunity.
Lend your talents to this vital industry where the 
promotional opportunities are as great as the many 
outstanding innovations to be introduced.
SKF Career Recruiters will be at your 
placement office to conduct interviews 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1981
Please arrange for an interview on the above date 
or send a full resume indicating areas of interest 
to the attention of:
John T. Kerr 
Personnel Manager 
SKF Industries, Inc.
1100 First Avenue 
King of Prussia, PA 19406
M/F An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 19
Intramural Sports: Pika—A bowls over opposition
by Leslie Weiser
Another IM championship was decided 
this past week. Phi Kappa Theta-A beat the 
Renegades in IM bowling. The match was a 
close one. PKT-A won by a 23"pin margin 
and a final score of 2295 pins to 2272 pins.
In basketball news, the major league has 
two undefeated teams out in front—Lucifer 
and Chillers...Juco. The commissioners for 
the majors are Rocky Cersosimo, phone 
578-4613, and Wes Seeley, phone 687-0843. 
In the intermediate league, D-Force has the 
most wins, closely followed by SUPA Stars. 
The commissioner for intermediates is Lou 
Oliver, phone 578-4512. In the minors, the 
Speedies are ahead. Their commissioner is 
Anthony Jones, phone 578-4694. The action 
in the women’s league hasn’t progressed 
enough to decide leaders. The women’s 
commissioner is Rocky Cersosimo, phone 
578-4613.
All games scheduled for Wednesday, Feb­
ruary 18, will be played on Tuesday, Febru­
ary 17, at the same time and court. Women’s 
schedules may be picked up in the gym. 
Officials should note the game winners on 
their score sheet.
Backgammon teams should get their 
games played and turn in their results to 
commissioner Debbie Cohen, phone 578- 
5943.
Check the IM bulletin board for handball 
schedules. Mr. Birdy is the commissioner, 
phone 578-2214.
Bridge matches will be held at Theta Xi. 
Boards can be checked out with commis­
sioner Eric Theis, phone 682-9580.
Weightlifting starts this week. The com­
missioner is Ken Murawski, phone 578- 
4666.
Team wrestling practice sessions will be 
held on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday 
from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. in Thisde Hall. Each 
wrestler must attend practice sessions. The 
commissioners are Geof Luce, phone 683-
1699, and William Gens, phone 578-4452.
Water basketball starts this week. Please 
check the IM bulletin board for practice 
times and game schedules. There must be a 
certified lifeguard on duty at each game. 
The commissioner is Gary Petrosky,phone 
578-4005.
Entries are due Tuesday, February 17, at 
4:30, for table tennis and team call pool. The
commissioners are Glen Rosenthal, phone 
682-9166, and Dave Hecht, phone 687-7764,
respectively.
Entries are due Thursday, February 19, 
for individual call pool, commissioners Les 
Joel, phone 683-8680; foulshooting; co-rec 
badminton; and co-rec table tennis. The lat­
ter three still need commissioners.
Intramural Night takes place on Friday, 
March 13. Trophies will be awarded for all 
winners. The next IM board meeting will be 
Thursday, February 19, at 12:30 p.m. in the 
IM office.
WVU next opponent
CMU Hockey Slides at Erie
by Steve Machemis
The CMU Hockey Club lost 4-2 to a tal­
ented Gannon College club in a Friday 
night match played at Erie, PA.
Gannon took the lead when CMU goal- 
tender Steve Machemis was caught off 
guard as a slow back-hander went by him on
INTERMEDIATESOff42BIG 8WL
EASTWLKnights33Speedies60
Tar Hells50Turning Machine33M8cM’s31
Johnson 8c Johnson51K.S.24P.H.D.22
Mothership40Sinofonians25Math Dept.22
Magnum M20The Cage15KE Bruisers12
Hawks23Raiders07Lambda Sigma Delta12
Banditos23Eta Kappa Nu03
IG’s Idiots23WESTwLBio Hazards03
Jet13SUPA Stars60
Cumberjacks13The Kids52PAK-8WL
Grabiznadz14Zoo51Skid Row41
Camp Woodlawn05Kool 8c The Gang41Pika-C42
Knicks43Frenalums31
SOUTHWLZBT22Bearded Clams31
Fightin’ Irish50GSIA Hoops Dietics23Delta Upsilon22
Civil Hammer51PIKA-B14TX Old Farts24
Theta Xi41Cones 8c Co.14Rastamen03
“W”42SAE-B15Scrubs04
Smart Guys.34Machine05
SUPA Men23MAJORS
Wild Bunch25MINORSMARAVICHWL
Day Care Center13ACCWLChillers. .Juco50
PKT-B14Nads50Long Shots41
Devine NWE06Eagles40Tulsa31
Mixed Bag22Delta Tau Delta33
NORTHWLRenegades23PIKA-A23
D-Force70First National Bank02Dream Team23
Schipper’s Shooters51Electric Eels02Wild Bunch24
Buckateers41Rosalita04KAPPA SIG-A15
the glove side. Gannon led the rest of the 
game.
It wasn’t until the home team had tallied 
twice before Ray Handley finally put the 
Tartans on the board in the second period. 
With less than two minutes left in the game, 
Machemis, who managed thirty saves, was 
pulled off and CMU tried to catch up by 
using six skaters. Rick Samuelsen made a 
goal for CMU, putting the score at 3-2, but 
Gannon was able to get their insurance goal 
to seal the game.
The Tartans play again Saturday against 
the West Virginia Moutaineers in a match 
scheduled for 3:00 p.m. at the Civic Arena.
Wishing a good 19th to Orson.
Buster Cherry II
BIRD
Lucifer
Nite Train Express 
Losers III 
Smooth As Silk 
Icemen
Phi Kappa Theta
Jetsons
SAE-A
ATO
WOMEN’S
Stamp Krew 
GSIA Sureshots 
MJP’s 
F.A.B.
Clump & Co.
W
5
5
4
3
3
3
2
2
0
L
0
1
2
2
2
2
3
4 
6
RECRUITMENT FOR 
SHELL COMPANIES OVERSEAS
A service furnished to overseas Shell companies 
by SCALLOP CORPORATION (a Shell company)
OPPORTUNITIES FOR NATIONALS OF WEST EUROPEAN COUNTRIES AND 
ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, INDONESIA, NIGERIA AND THAILAND WHO WISH 
TO RETURN TO THEIR AREAS OF ORIGIN.
WESTERN EUROPE
ARGENTINA
BRAZIL
INDONESIA
NIGERIA
Petroleum, Chemical, Mechanical, Electrical (Power and Control) 
and Civil/Structural Engineers 
Ceologlsts and Geophysicists 
Chemists (British only)
Computer Systems Analysts and Operations Research Specialist»
Petroleum and Mechanical Engineers, Geologists, Geophysicists 
and Financial, Economics and Business-oriented graduates
Appropriate graduates in Economics, Finance and Marketing 
Chemical Engineers and Agronomists
Appropriate graduates for the Chemical and Metals Trading 
Administ ration
Appropriate graduates for the Finance Administration 
Ceologists and Ceophysicists
Petroleum, Mechanical, Civil and Electrical Power Engineers and 
Computer Application Specialists
THAILAND
If
Chemical and Mechanical Engineering graduates to become 
executive trainees
you are interested, please write and send resume to.
SCALLOP CORPORATION 
Overseas Recruitment 
3200 One Allen Center 
Houston, Texas 77002
WE ASK 
A LOT 
OF YOU.
College is over There s a degree in your hand Now 
what-5 Start your career rolling by attending Air Force Of­
ficer Training School Complete this three-month program 
and you open the door to one of the finest opportunities 
available anywhere to college graduates today If you ve 
got what it takes we an offer a challenging and rewarding 
career with aH the respect and prestige of a commissioned 
officer The starting salary is good and if you meet special 
qualifications, you may even have an opportunity to go to 
graduate school at little or no cost to you You can also 
have 30 days of vacation with pay each year complete 
medical and dental care and low cost life insurance Find 
out today how the Air Force can help you get your career 
rolling Do it for your country and yourself Contact
Fred Alley or Jim Gallogly 
644-2704 ^ |rT_^
---------------^
moisittz
A great way of Me

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—February 17, 1981
Convocation of Laureates held at convention center
continued from page 5
“If students will be so tempted by high 
salaries and attractive positions that they’ll 
flock to laboratories that are focusing on 
narrow industrial applications, then 
obviously the universities and basic research 
laboratories will be denuded of these same 
sources for basic information for the next 
generation. So I think it is a legitimate mat­
ter of concern.”
Komberg devoted part of his talk to the 
current controversy over the teaching of evo­
lution in the public schools. “Now Jerry 
Falwell and his moral majority are working 
for legislation that would require scientific 
creation portrayed in the bible to be taught 
in the public schools along with the theory 
of evolution...It’s monstrous nonsense. Evo­
lution is a law of nature as compelling as 
gravitation. The evidence for it, if you read a 
simple high school textbook, is as plain and 
manifold as a falling apple or an orbiting 
planet.”
Komberg was barraged with questions 
from the audience on evolution including 
one woman who claimed that perhaps the 
Nobel Laureate was referring to the evolu­
tion of the tody while the biblical story of 
creation referred to the soul. Komberg rep­
lied; T’rti sorry, I don’t know the chemistry 
of the soul.”
Art in science
“My work has always tended to unite the 
true and the beautiful,” said William Lips­
comb, Nobel Laureate in Chemistry. “But 
when I had to choose one or the other, I 
usually chose the beautiful.”
Lipscomb, a student of Linus Pauling, 
plays frequent professional engagements as 
a clarinetist and is vitally concerned with the 
aesthetics of science. Professor Lipscomb 
was educated as a physical chemist,'worked 
as an inorganic chemist, lectures in theoreti­
cal organic chemistry, and now is working 
in biochemistry. But as he puts it; “It’s all 
structure and function!”
“If one actually set out to give as little help 
as possible to both aesthetics and originality 
in science one could hardly desire a better 
place than our educational system,” says 
Lipscomb. He points out that one never 
hears what we don’t know in science and 
least of all how to prepare for creative ideas.
He feels that the greatest fault of education 
today is allowing the decline of the English 
language.
Lipscomb is concerned about the com­
munication of the vast body of information 
that is developing in the area of aesthetics in 
science. Lipscomb commented, “Without 
leisure, space in the journals, closeness of 
teaching and research, the aesthetic aspects 
are the ones that are lost almost preferen­
tially. A new discovery in science, like a 
work of art, is almost immediately taken 
from its context, isolated by admiration and 
removed from its human connection so that 
it is no longer part of life.”
On the question of whether scientists 
should use aesthetic criteria to direct their 
research, Lipscomb observes that they 
already do, very' naturally. “We have 
employed aesthetic concepts of symmetry 
and simplicity to great advantage because 
our minds work that way and to a surprising 
extent so does nature; perhaps that’s because 
we’re part of nature.” %
Lipscomb finished his talk by asking 
whether the tmly creative and aesthetic 
aspects of science are being endangered by
our new national policies. “If so,” he states 
“we may diminish both science and the art 
of discovery.”
Foreign aid means
Dr. Theodore W. Schultz, 1979 Nobel 
Laureate in Economics reviewed the foreign 
aid policy of the world community.
Dr. Schultz commented that, when a 
developing nation receives foreign aid, it is 
usually “tied” to the donor nation, which 
means that the receiving nation must spend 
a certain percentage of the aid in purchasing 
goods or services from the donor nation. 
Usually, the money is invested in industry, 
Schultz pointed out.
He believes that the aid should be shifted 
“from physical capital to human capital.” 
Schultz cited examples of developing coun­
tries which have large factories while the 
majority of the population is uneducated 
and under-fed.
He believes that, if foreign aid 
could be redirected towards education and 
agriculture, the economy of the developing 
nation would progress by itself.
Creating, manufacturing, and marketing the test systems that keep electronic technol­
ogy growing is the business of Teradyne, the world’s high-tech leader in automatic test 
equipment (ATE). Every bit as sophisticated as the technology it must judge, ATE presents an espe­
cially exciting challenge to the most creative minds. 
What keeps Teradyne in the forefront of this industry, and makes it such a rewarding 
place to work, is the fact that here creative minds are actively sought out and 
encouraged to sparkle.
The nature of our work demands it.
To imagine your future at Teradyne, check the Placement Office and talk to the 
Teradyne repre?' native coming soon to your campus.
An equal opportunity employer M/F.

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 21
Out—of—state admissions up; recruiting improved
by Greg Pisocky
For the first time since the founding of 
Carnegie Institute, Camegie-Melloh Uni­
versity admitted more than half of its stu­
dents from out of Pennsylvania. By a slim 
margin of fifty-one percent, the majority of 
students are from out of state.
According to William Elliot, Director of 
Admissions, CMU’s first success at recruit­
ing a majority of out-of-state students is the 
result of a program that was begun three 
and four years ago. As a result, applications 
are around 5000, exceeding the 1977 record. 
This represents a 15 percent increase in 
applications over those recieved for admit­
tance to the class of 1984.
This latest statistic is evidence of the 
.Admissions Office’s response to current 
demographic trends across the country. As 
the pool of high school graduates declines 
across the country, especially in the nor­
theast, incoming students must be recruited 
| from an expanded geographic market.
Lower birth rates and a movement to the 
“sun belt” regions of the country have also 
forced CMU to work harder in areas outside 
| of the traditional strongholds. Based on
1979 figures, there is a 24 percent decrease in 
Pennsylvania high school graduates.
According to Elliot, the Admissions Offi­
ce’s efforts are a market response, intended to 
make “Camegie-Mellon more of a house­
hold word across the country.” Working 
closely with the Public Relations Office, 
there is a barrage of coverage concerning 
Camegie-Mellon. “We want parents and 
students to read about Camegie-Mellon in 
the New York Times and the Wall Street 
Journal. Say, for example, that a parent 
reads that we have a good computer science 
program here and he knows his child is 
interested in that field. He’ll be inclined to 
suggest CMU to his son or daughter. We can 
reduce the recruiting budget by influencing 
people-getting them to talk about the 
school at cocktail parties.”
Specifically, Admissions has redirected a 
“fair” amount of its travel expense dollars to 
include Florida, Texas, Colorado, and Ariz­
ona. The cities of St. Louis, Chicago, and 
Minneapolis represent what Elliot calls new 
academic horizons for CMU. The west coast 
is also a target area, although the Admis­
sions Office efforts are hindered because the
dollars are not available to recruit ip 
California.
Contacting high school guidance counse­
lors represents a major part of the program. 
Elliot wants counselors “to suggest my 
institution.”
The time, effort, scheduling and money 
are overt advertising in order to get CMU in 
students’ minds, but Elliot recognizes the 
I responsibility to maintain credibility 
beyond the hype. “Once we’re in the set, we 
try to be straightforward, what we do well, 
what we don’t do well.” Status forums, inter­
views with current students, and the sleep­
ing bag campaign are designed toward this 
end. “They answer the students’ questions: 
‘how does life here differ from what I read?’” 
Elliot says he’s often chastised by other 
Admissions Officers from other institutions 
for not preparing the students that candi­
dates are going to meet. “Sleeping bag wee­
kend gives people a chance to experience 
CMU for a day and a half and we never tell 
our hosts what to say. It’s the student’s 
chance to see what it’s really like.”
Elliot envisions a future where Admis­
sions will be able to employ new technology
as an aid to its recruiting efforts. He said, “I 
like to think of what we might be able to do 
with video tape, video disk and cable TV. It 
may sound foolish now, but using cable TV 
for a talk show where I can send word out to 
high schools students and say, on channel 
93 at seven there’s going to be a talk show 
about my university, is certainly a means of 
getting the word around.”
The appeal of Camegie-Mellon Univer­
sity, in a future where competition for a 
smaller pool of prospective students will 
become more intense among higher educa­
tion institutions, depends upon the Univer­
sity’s efforts today to anticipate and respond
to upcoming trends.
Corrections
In last week’s Tartan, the comments 
attributed to senate candidate John Snyder 
were actually made by Lou Hafer.
Raymond Mall has accepted a special 
three year appointment as Assistant Profes­
sor in the Department of Architecture with 
administrative responsibilities in the depart­
mental wood shop.
After 15 interviews with various com­
panies, I finally found MITRE. And after 15 
interviews I definitely knew what I was look­
ing for when I saw it.
I had to have breathing room. A place 
that would turn me loose and let me work on 
different kinds of projects. On the other 
hand, I had to know I’d be able to turn to 
other people for advice and backup. And I 
definitely wanted a steady growth situation.
With the MITRE people, I knew fight 
away I’d found it all.
At any given time, they have some 75 
or so funded, significant programs involving 
several hundred separate projects and 
tasks. And because they’re Technical Ad­
visors to the Air Force’s Electronic Systems 
Division in Command, Control and Com­
munications (C3), they design and develop 
some of the world’s most advanced informa­
tion systems.
Still, MITRE handles every assignment 
as if it were the only one. Because they have 
to come up with the right solution every time. 
That's their product.
The best of MITRE to me is that they’ll 
let me move from project to project if I want, 
or get deeply involved in a longer-range one. 
There s always something waiting for me.
I’m glad it took 15 interviews to get to 
MITRE. Now when I say I chose them, I 
know exactly what I’m talking about.
Openings exist in:
COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
COMMAND AND CONTROL 
SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE 
COMMUNICATIONS 
RADAR SYSTEMS
See your Placement Office to set up an 
on-campus interview, or send your resume 
directly to Jerome P. McKinnon, The MITRE 
Corporation, Bedford, MA 01730. U.S. Citizen­
ship or resident alien registration required.
MITRE will be atCarnegie-Mellon
on March 4,1981
Wila
MITRE
CORPORATION
MITRE is an equal opportunity 
employer actively seeking applications under 
its affirmative action program.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—February 17, f§81
1981—1982 Food service, housing plans presented
continued from page 6
tion will be made for vegetarians under the 
proposed plan.
SDC Treasurer Bret Fennel asked the 
committee if they were aware that Food Ser­
vice contracts which required that students 
who lived in campus residence halls sub­
scribe to a food plan are illegal. Fennel 
remarked that the arrangement is referred to 
as a “tie in contract” which is outlawed by 
the Clayton Act of 1914.
Oscar Mayer responded “I can’t say that it 
(the mandatory food plan) isn’t (illegal).” 
" Marie Marsella, head of an SDC Committee 
that negotiated with Food Service, 
explained that the fifty dollar fee plan 
would necessitate a $452 expenditure per 
semester in order for students to make up the 
fee in interest. Marsella remarked, “Even 
though they (the Food Service proposals)
may sound very radical, they have been 
toned down quite a bit through the efforts of
the committee. Initially they (the university 
representatives) wanted to impose an eighty 
dollar per semester fee to all residents in
rioncooking facilities and a 40 dollar fee to 
all other students.”
Next year’s ihcoming freshmen who live 
in on-campus housing will be required to 
subscribe to either the 15 or 21 meal plan 
which is similar to the point system used 
this year.
Housing
SDC President Jeff Pitchford expressed 
his opposition to increase in Roselawn 
housing rates, “We (SDC) think that it is 
totally deplorable. They (Roselawn resi­
dents) don’t see that much of an increase in 
the quality of the place -- it is mostly lands­
caping.” Pitchford is drafting an official 
resolution of protest which he plans to sub­
mit to university officials this week.
The housing rates for the 1981-1982 
school year were also discussed at the meet­
ing. There will be a 7.3% average increase in
the housing costs of campus residence halls 
next year. Some on campus housing facili­
ties may experience up to an 8% increase in 
price with the exception of the Roselawn 
Apartments which will rise by 23%. Gary 
Dalton explained that extensive renovations 
planned for Roselawn this year necessitated 
the increase. The scheduled renovations are 
listed below.
CostRenovations
Israeli Consulate at CMU
continued from page 16 
coping, Barkan replied, “They are coping 
much better than here...” Israel's economy 
employs a mechanism of protecting the con­
sumer and institutions from the problems of 
inflation.
Every salary, savings, and bond in Israel is
Computer Science 
and Electrical Engineering 
Majors
San Francisco Bay Area company developing state of 
the art computer software and hardware for integrated 
voice and data office communications systems seeks 
talented individuals interested in:
SOFTWARE
• Operating Systems
• Real Time Distributed Computing
• Data Communications
• Office Automation Applications
• Office of the Future Applications
• Diagnostics
• Software Tools
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969 has grown 
50% -100% each year and currently has 
3700 employees. ROLM’s Telecommunications 
Division is the leading independent supplier of 
computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems.
Included in ROLM’s outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after six 
years (and every seven years thereafter), company 
paid tuition and time off for graduate study at 
Stanford University. Employees can take advan­
tage of flexible working hours to use ROLM’s 
million dollar recreational facility which includes 
tennis courts, racquetball courts, basketball, 
exercise room, volleyball, swimming pools, par 
course, sauna, steam room and jacuzzi.
On Campus Interviews
Wednesday 
March 11.1981
How with working software engineers from 
ROLM in the placement center. See our com­
pany literature in the placement center.
Gibson And«rson 
If unable to attend an Manager, Recruiting & Training 
interview, send resume to: ROLM Corporation
4900 Old Ironsides Drive M/S 560 
Santa Clara, CA 95050
CORPORATION
indexed to the cost of living - they rise with 
the cost of living. Consequently, people do 
not feel the pinch of inflation, people do not 
really lose purchasing powers in Israel. In 
the last year two trends have occurred:
1. The real income went down 7%. (This 
indicates that the purchasing power of the 
consumer is going down)
2. The Israeli balance of trade has 
improved dramatically, (exports rose, 
imports went down)
Barkan also discussed Israeli's role in rela­
tion to the U.S. He believes that Israel is 
“the only viable ally that the U.S. has in the 
Middle-East.” Other topics touched on in 
the interview were Israeli party politics, the 
American male's “upside-down” view of 
women, and Israel's view of the hostages. 
The entire interview will be broadcasted on 
WRCT 88.3 FM, the CMU radio station, in 
the very near future.
$40,000 .......................................landscaping
10.000  ..............................................window
50.000 ...............................carpentry repair
40.000    .......................electrical rewiring
10.000 ...........................bathroom hardware
12.000 .....................................exterior lightinj
Vice Provost: 
Van Houweling
by Reed Vickerman
On March 1st, Douglas Van Houweling 
will begin work as the new Vice-Provost f< 
Computing and Planning here at CMU.
Chosen in November, after a five mondi 
search by a committee headed by Provosi 
Dick Van Horn, Van Houweling will 
responsible for the Computation Center, 
University Planning and Administrative 
Systems. This new position for Van Hou­
weling will be similar to that previously 
held by Jack McCredie,
Dr. Van Houweling comes to CMU after 
serving as Director to Academic Computing 
at Cornell Universtiy. While there, Van 
Houweling had also served as an Asssistant 
Professor of Government and among his 
many accomplishments was responsible for 
the development and direction of The 
Laboratory for Urban Affairs. The labora­
tory administered a unique course based on 
computer simulation of the growth anc 
maturity of an urban area. Van Houweling 
is considering the possibility of replicating 
this project here at CMU at some time in the 
future.
Announcing the campus discount:
10% off...
cm all TI consumer products at the Texas 
Instruments 
retail store*
Texas Instruments calculators, watches, 
learning aids—even the TI-99/4 Home 
Computer—just show us your valid univer­
sity ID and get a 10% discount on just 
about everything in the store*! This offer 
is good through June 10,1981.
TI Programmable 59 
calculator
’Discount available to students and faculty 
Special sale items are excluded from this offer
Visit the Texas Instruments 
retail store—where all 
of TVs consumer products 
and accessories are available.
CONTA YUARPLEOURA
Retail Store
Century III Mall • 655-3700
Texas Instruments retail stores are operated by Texas Instruments Supply Company, a subsidiary of Texas Instruments Incorporated 
1980 Texas Instruments Supply Company I

---------------------------------------------------

fasste*
________________
February 17, 1981—The Tartan—Page 23
February 20
Friday Films
Brubaker, starring Robert Redford and Yaphet 
Kotto. Brubaker takes a realistic, in-depth look at 
a prison system in decay and a man who will not 
compensate in his efforts to change it.
February 22
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies 
Mister Roberts was the most commercially suc­
cessful of all Ford’s films, and it is perhaps the 
most fondly remembered of the service comedies 
that were made in the aftermath of World War II. 
Xhe public ate up the rough-and-ready mixture 
of farce and sentiment. Jack Lemmon won his 
fiRt Oscar as the buffoonians Ensign Pulver, 
James Cagney energetically lampooned the role 
of the thin-skinned captain, and Fonda’s devo­
tion to duty in the midst of the shipboared she­
nanigans is quietly impressive.
February 22 
Comedy Series
The Great Dictator, in which director Charlie 
Chaplin plays the dual roles of a Jewish barber 
and Adenoid Hinkel, Dictator of Tomania. An 
unabashed attack on German fascism. 7:30 in the 
Lecture Hall. $2.
German Film Series
Warum Lauft Herr R. Amok? (German dia­
logue with English subtides) Directed by R.W. 
Fassbinder. With his wife and child, Mr. R. 
respectably lives like his neighbors in a comforta­
ble modem apartment with TV and other 
gadgets and his own little garden. The routine of 
his daily life runs smoothly, without any physi-. 
cal or psychological complications. Returning 
from work one evening, he kills his wife, child 
and a visiting neighbor, irrationally and inex­
plicably compelled. Shortly before the police 
arrive, he hangs himself. 7 p.m. in Porter Hall 
100. Admission is free
Joe Negri. Dr. Samuel Hazo is the founder and 
director of the International Poetry Forum and 
Negri is a popular local musician and enter­
tainer. Featuring the Joe Negri Quartet. $2.50 for 
students IPF is located in the Webster Hall Hotel 
at Fifth and Dithridge. Performance is at Carne­
gie Institute.
account of a small Welsh town in the spring. 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 
Sunday at 2 p.m. Reservations may be made by 
calling 683-3993
art
film
SDC Film Series
February 21
My Bodyguard, starring Chris Makepeace, Matt 
Dillon, Ruth Gordon and Martin Mull in 1980’s 
"sleeper” hit. A bullied teen-ager hires a personal 
mysterious bodyguard . 6, 8, 10, and 12 in DH 
2210. $.75 with CMU ID
Carnegie Film Series
February 17
Director Series—George Kuchar
Six short Kuchar films including a “Hilarious 
‘screen test’ in which Kuchar outdoes the actress.” 
8 p.m. in the Museum of Art Theatre. $2.
February 21
Films from 19th Century English Literature
Jane Eyre, directed by Robert Stevenson and 
Orson Welles. Starring Joan Fontaine as Emily 
Bronte’s heroine. 1:30 in the Museum of Art
Theatre. $2.
February 21
Chris Welsby—visiting filmmaker
The “landscape” filmmaker returns to Pitts­
burgh with two new films, Sea/Shore and Estu­
ary. 8p.m. at the Pittsburgh Film-makers on 
Oakland Avenue. $2.50
music
February 17 
Jim Carroll Band
Presented by DiCesare—Engler Productions at 
the Stanley Showcase Club beneath the Stanley 
Theatre. 8 p.m.
February 20
The Cardboards, The Five and the Beach 
Bunnies
At the Electric Banana on Bigelow Boulevard. "A 
gala celebration of nothing in particular.” 10 
p.m.
February 22 
Martha
Camegie-Mellon’s graduate student workshop 
will present the English translation of Friedrich 
von Flotow’s opera. 8 p.m. in the Skibo Bal­
lroom. Free.
February 25
International poetry Forum
The forum presents “An American Made in 
Paris,” a poetry-jazz suite with Samuel Hazo and
theater
Through February 21 
Twelfth Night
Shakespeare’s comedy is brought to the 1920’s, in 
the Kresge Theatre. A CMU Drama Department 
production. Shows are 8:20 Tuesday through Sat­
urday and 2 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets available 
in the CMU Box Office. Free.
February 14 through March 8 
Under Milk Wood
Metro presents Dylan Thomas’s only stage work 
at the Lion Walk Performing Arts Center. Fea­
tured in the cast are CMU alumni Michael Cook 
and Susan Chapek. The hilarious and tender
Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opposite the box 
office. Gallery hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday 
through Saturday, and during Kresge Theatre 
performances.
Through February 19 
Design Department Show
Department head Joseph Ballay’s 16 foot canoe 
is the featured piece. The boat of fiberglass skins 
over a cedar core boast an original hull design. 
Adjunct professor Tim Cunningham will show 
a wooden rocking ram for children. The entire 
design faculty will be represented by recent 
works.
IRON CITY REGULAR IR0N CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUOSCHMIDTSSCHMIDTS BOCK OARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZBALLANTINE ALE MICHELOB REGULAR MICHELOB LIGHT PABSTPABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER MILLER LIGHT COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE WEIDEMAN
Featuring 22 Variatias Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. M0LS0N ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS ANO SCHLITZ MALT 
One dHtftnt 16 oi. 6 pk featured each weak
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHUTZ WALT * STROMS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
• SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOC« - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
IS VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES IMPORTS
Original
V ^ HOT DOG
* BECKS LIGHT OR OARK 
G er min»
' CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark
* BORT HANSA Germany
* HOFBRAU Germany
* FISCHER GOLO Franc*
* HOISTEN LAGER Germany
* ST PAULI GIRL Germany
* SPATEN Germany
* RIGNES SPECIAL Norway
* SWAN LAGER Australia
* BASS ALE England
* MAC KES0N STOUT 
E Roland
* LOWENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEIREAO PALE ALE 
URQUELLPtL
England 
ILSNER URQU 
Ciechwiovakia 
RIGNES Nerway 
OOS EQUIS Meiico 
PERONI Italv 
GUINESS ST0UT Inland 
’ GROLSCHE Holland 
’ GOSSE R Austria SAN MIGUEL PMIpints 
KIRIM Japan 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
KRAKUS Poland 
HEINEKE» LT » OK Holland 
FOSTER S LAGER Awtlralia ANO MANV OTMERS
SHOPS. INC. 621-7388 or 621 -1185
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGM., MA. 1S213
Msmuer lleui Horizons ut CIMR0L
Enter CLAIROL’S world of innovative career experiences as part of 
our engineering management staff. Challenging opportunities 
await you in our Operations Management Program.
• Process Engineering • Project Engineering
• Industrial Engineering
• Production Supervision
• Production Planning & Material Control
Our representatives will be on campus... 
March 4. 1981
at the Placement Office
An Equal Opportunity Employer M F HJ
CALL S7S-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifiedofficial
Must Sublet fully furnished bedroom in Beau­
tiful Shadyside Apartment. Available imme­
diately. Fully equipped kitchen. Female pre­
ferred. Leave message for J. Thaler at x2392.
Apt. Available Shadyside. One bedroom in 
two bedroom apartment. $120 plus gas. 621 - 
4848.
Rent St. Augustine Florida Oceanfront Con­
dominium. 2 BR, 2 Bath, Sleeps 6, pool, free 
lighted tennis courts $325-300/week. 578-2677 
or 327-0056.
Four Jewish males looking for four Jewish 
females to share house. Call Rob x4645.
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed native teachers. For additional info 
call 661-1211.
Typing: IBM Selectric Symbols: Pica, elite, work 
guaranteed. 734-1331.
Typing— experienced, freelance secretary, will
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession­
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi­
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Will buy used book. Electric Furnaces by 
AIME (American Institute of Mechanical 
Engineers. Leave message for Teresa at 941 - 
3150 or 421-0994.
B.J.- I can’t see into the future but I can see that 
you have helped make these last 3lA years the best 
I’ve ever had. Love S.
Silver Coins Wanted- will pay highest prices. 
Also will buy/trade B.B. cards/comics. After 6 
p.m. call 521-2749.
For Sale-One chrome Ludwig snare drum
with case, stand, sticks and brushes. $80 or 
best offer. Call Steve at 683-8372.
Moving and light hauling—Campus based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062.
Applications for Special Interest Housing in 
Margaret Morrison Apartment Complex are now 
available in Housing Office. Special interest 
groups who are interested in incorporating their 
hobbies, academics or lifestyles into a commun­
ity living situation are urged to apply. These 
houses are designed for eight students with four 
bedrooms, two full bathrooms, kitchen and liv­
ing room. Examples of groups who have applied 
for or lived in such housing are Hillel, music, 
electrical engineers, computer, Fine Arts and 
Track Club. You do not have to be a recognized 
student organization to apply. Any group of 
eight students who presendy live on campus will 
be considered, but the quality of your group’s 
aims and goals detailed in your application prop­
osal will determine if your group will be chosen. 
Applications are due in the Housing Office by 
5:00 PM Friday, March 6, 1981.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, February 24. 
Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open office 
hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 p.m.
ing, Skibo (check info desk for room no.). “ 
February 22 at 5 p.m. Poale Zedeck Dinner 
Forum- Topic: “Status of Jerusalem in Inter­
national Law”, speaker Prof. Riker. Meet in 
Hillel lounge, 3rd floor, 315 S. Bellefield. 
February 23 at 5:30 p.m. Leadership Council 
dinner meeting, open to all. 315 S. Bellefield, 
3rd floor.
club
general
HfcSS/SAC Pizza Party. Friday, February 20 
at 4 p.m., Baker Hall, Second Floor Rotunda 
Area. All faculty, staff and students invited.
E-Tower Elevator Contest — Submit design 
ideas to your E-Tower R.A. by the end of Febru­
ary. Winners chosen will receive $20 for design 
and successful completion. More details from 
your friendly E-Tower R.A.’s.
B’nai Brith Hillel on Campus
February 20 at 5:30 Shabbat Dinner and Ser­
vice, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., 3rd floor, make 
reservations in advance.
February 22 at noon CMU-Hillel Club meet­
The Student Senate meets in the Whenet Room 
at 6:30 p.m. every Tuesday night.
The Student’s Dormitory Council meets Wednes­
day night at 7 o’clock in the Wherrett Room in 
Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend and 
participate.
The CMU Explorer Club’s winter activities
include ski packing, winter camping, ice climb­
ing, day trips and more. A brief meeting is held 
every Thursday at 6:30 in room 11, Skibo. People 
of all levels of experience are welcome. —Funded 
by Student Senate.
Engineers- The student chapter of the Society of 
American Military Engineers will discuss the 
new Light Rail Transit System, scheduled for 
downtown Pittsburgh, on February 17,11:30 AM 
in B3 Margaret Morrison. The guest speaker will 
be Duncan Hughes, from the Port Authority 
Transit.
Spring Carnival. There will be a mandatory 
meeting of the Spring Carnival exec commit­
tee tomorrow, February 18 at 5 p.m. in Room 
33, Skibo.
Spring Carnival. There will be a mandatory 
meeting of all Booth Chairmen on Monday, 
Feb. 23 at 8:00, Room 13, Skibo.
The Volleyball Club is practicing every Mon­
day, Wednesday and Thursday from 9 to 11 
p.m. in Thistle Hall in the Gym. Anyone 
interested in playing is urged to attend or call 
Mike Matthews at 687-5095.
Camegie-Mellon’s Public Speaking Club will be 
meeting Mondays at 6 PM in room 12, Skibo. All 
interested students are urged to attend. For infor­
mation, call x4410, eves; x3842, days.
Writers and Artists: Oakland Review, campUs! 
literary magazine, is seeking submissions of 
try, short fiction, black and white artwork, and 
one-act plays for the 1981 issue. Submissions Qn 
be placed in the OR mailbox at the Skibo Inf0 
mation Desk. Deadline is February 27.
The CMU Student Branch of the I—EEE is spon
soring a presentation on Career Choices. 
speaker is Dr, William Doyle of Motorola Corp 
The presentation will be given on Tuesday, Feb. 
mary 24 at 4:30 PM in Scaife 125.
Join us at AIESEC (an international busing 
organization) weekly meetings Wednesdays 
4:30 in Skibo Rm. 11. All majors welcome.
There will be an organizational meeting for
golf team on friday, 20 February at 4:30 in the 
small gym.
The CMU SKI CLUB is having its first ski trip0 
the 1981 winter season. The trip will depart from 
Skibo parking lot for Snowshoe Mountain 
West Virginia (elev. 4000 ft.) on Saturday mom- 
ing Feb. 21. Tickets are available at the Skibo 
information desk. For additional informatio 
call Mark at 421-8764 after 9 p.m.
scholarship
The European Studies Committee announces a 
prize of $250 for the best essay in the area i 
European studies written by a CMU student a 
academic year 1980-81. Essays will be considered 
on any aspect of European society and culture 
architecture, business, history', literature, foreign 
affairs and so on.
Essays should be submitted by April 1, to Peter N. 
Steams (History). Essays of any length not 
exceeding 50 typescript pages can be considered
Alpha Phi Omega is accepting applications f 
the Kent D. Schaeffer Memorial Scholarship 
There are $200 scholarships awarded on uu: basis
of Leadership, Friendship and Service, the thra 
governing principles of A Phi O. Application! 
are available at the Skibo Information Desk and 
are due March 12, 1981. Return to A Phi O, Bos 
100, Campus Mail.
Petitions for
Student
Government
President
and
Student
Senate
seats
are available at the Skibo Information Desk.
To be on the ballot for the elections on
March 11 & 12, return them by 5 p.m. 
February 25, 1981.
Funded by the Activities Fee
For Your Information
Display ads are due by
Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. j
Announcements, Classifieds, 
and Events by
Wednesday at 5:00 p.m.
Letters to the Editor by 
Friday at 5:00 p.m.
Classifieds are $2.00 for 1-20 words, $4.00 for 20-50 words.
Display ads are $4.00 per column inch, minimum order 2 
column inches. Special rates available.
Typesetting available at $18.00 per hour,layout and design 
extra.
Copy camera work available at $1.25, $2.50, and $5.00 per shot, 
depending on paper size.
For further information, contact the Business Manager, Linda 
Hetrick.
Business hours: Mon & Wed 11:30 a.m.-l:00 p.m. Tues 8c "1 hlirS 
10:00 a.m.-ll:00 a.m. 
Address: Box 17 Schenley park/Skibo 50 & 52 
578-2111 (24-hour answering machine -2113)
