CMU Student Found Dead
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor
At about 8 am, Sunday November 8, a 
jogger found the body of Carnegie Mellon 
Junior Thomas “Lee” Godfrey under Sch- 
enely Park Bridge. Godfrey, a statistics 
major, apparently jumped from the bridge 
around 3 am.
At the time of publication, the exact cause 
of death had not been determined. Accord­
ing to Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walter, 
there was neither evidence of foul play nor 
any indication of drug or alcohol influence.
Godfrey’s body will undergo an autopsy.
According to some of his friends, 
Godfrey, 21, entered CMU in 1984 as a 
Civil Engineering major. He returned to his 
home in Wilmette, IL, in early 1986. where 
he enrolled in Mathematics and Art courses 
at the University of Illinois, Chicago. He 
returned to CMU this semester.
Walter explained he didn't want to "pro­
tect the student body from this thing, but on 
the other hand, I don’t want it to be roman- 
tized. It was a tragic death to a young 
man...clearly an awful tragedy.”
The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 10 Carnegie Mellon University November 10,1987
Mister Rogers: 20 years later and spin­
ning the tunes at WRCT
FEATURES......................Page 15
SPORTS....................Page 28
Soccer, volleyball, and rugby finish, 
football and x-country are next
Students caught juggling boxes, balls, and bowling pins on the Cut early Satur­
day evening.
Senate Passes Constitution
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
In one of its more active meetings. Student 
Senate re-adopted its new Constitution, 
passed a free speech resolution, and added a 
referendum about the Student Union to this 
week’s election.
The Constitution was passed without any 
discussion. It does not differ from the docu­
ment adopted in October.
The free speech resolution was submitted by 
Senator Allen Greenberg on behalf of the 
Academic Freedom Committee. Its original 
version called for the complete elimination of 
a provision of Security's draft policy on free 
speech.
Greenberg's resolution stated that Security's 
provision read “Members of the public not 
being of the CMU community are not permit­
ted to distribute leaflets or engage in other 
forms of demonstration on campus property."
Rules Committee chairman Shep Bostin 
added an amendment to the resolution, which 
called for the provision to be changed, not 
eliminated. Bostin asked that the policy call 
for “outsiders” to register with the Office of 
Student Affairs. Senator Tamal Mukherjee 
added a friendly amendment which called for 
“uninvited guests” rather than “outsiders” to 
register.
When the amendment toGreenberg's resolu- 
continucd on page 3
English and Design
Happy Hours 
Suspended
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Staffwriter
As the result of a mishap which led to the 
destruction of equipment and furniture in 
H&SS Dean Steven Feinberg’s office and the 
Communications Design Center (CDC), 
happy hours in Baker Hall will no longer be 
allowed for the Departments of English and 
Design.
The two departments’ Sept. 4 happy hours 
started out as usual, with beer and pizza and a 
few fellow department members talking and 
having a good time. The Design Department 
members occupied the open foyer at the end 
of the hall on the third floor of Baker Hall, 
while the English Department gathered in the 
^ same location on the second floor. But an 
incident involving a Design student plugging 
up and turning on a sink in a locked room led 
to damage to Feinberg’s Sun III computer and 
items in the CDC (rooms directly below the 
sink). As a result, Feinberg has told the two 
departments that they shall bid farewell to 
other such get-togethers in the future.
Says Todd Joseph, senior English major and 
organizer of the English Department happy 
hours, “Last year when I was taking Intro to 
Professional and Technical Writing, I was 
writing my proposal [a class requirement) 
as.J I decided that I wanted my proposal to 
acually be something that would be ac­
cepted—something people would use. And I 
knew a couple of Civil Engineers and how 
they had happy hours for the students in their
continued on page 3
v-- -----Tr-----------—----------------------------------------------------------------------1Senior Banquet Cancelled
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Class of 1988 will not be having a 
Senior Banquet due to the conduct of the 
Senior classes who have attended the ban­
quet over the last four years.
In a meeting last week, the Student Alumni 
Relations Council decided to continue the 
practice of presenting each of the seniors 
with a gift and information regarding the 
Alumni Association. Also, the Zero Year 
Reunion Party will again be held on the lawn 
in front of the College of Fine Arts on the 
Friday before Commencement. Other than 
the cancellation of the Senior Banquet, no 
other events or practices will be cancelled, 
added, or changed, according to Assistant 
Vice President of Alumni Relations David 
Maloney.
According to Maloney, the Carnegie Mel­
lon Alumni Executive Board and the 
Alumni Affairs Division of the Board of 
Trustees decided to cancel this year's ban­
quet because the event "has not accom­
plished what [Alumni Relations| set out to 
do.”
Over the last four years, an increasing 
number of seniors who have attended the 
banquet have been getting drunk and acting 
rowdy and out of control. Maloney would 
not cite specific individuals, groups, or 
numbers who were causing the distur­
bances, but was quick to point out that." You 
only need a few people to get drunk (and 
start acting this way ] to ruin the whole event 
for everyone."
This is the first time in the banquet’s nine
year history that it has had to be cancelled. 
Maloney said that the decision was made so 
that “a tradition" would not be established for 
future Senior classes to act this way at the 
banquet. “I had to be a policeman for most of 
the evening...and that is just not necessary,” he 
added.
The fact that approximately seven to eight 
hundred people attend the banquet is a prob­
lem. There is no space large enough on campus 
to have the affair, so the banquet has to be held 
off campus which causes more problems in 
terms of security and public image. Maloney 
stated, "We would have needed 40 policemen 
last year to keep things under control." Al­
though alcohol is served at the banquet, inci­
dents of students getting drunk at other parties 
(often bringing their own alcohol to the ban­
quet) and coming to the banquet then causing 
problems, including shouting down various 
speakers, were rampant last year. Maloney 
said that incidents of this type do nothing but 
hurt the reputation of the people and the school 
as a whole.
Maloney cites the quality of life of the uni­
versity as one of the main causes of the sen­
iors' lack of respect for the banquet. “They 
have a lot of pent-up feelings that they let out 
at the banquet. People say and do things when 
they are drunk that they normally would not 
say or do." He said that when students have 
problems with the school, in any capacity, 
"those problems cannot be solved with one 
banquet." He recommends that all four classes 
should be kept in contact with the Alumni 
Association, not just the seniors. “If the stu­
dents are happy at Carnegie Mellon, they will
be supportive of the Alumni,” added 
Maloney.
Maloney is quick to point out that the de­
cision of the Alumni groups is not intended 
to punish 1988’s or future senior classes. 
“We are still giving out gifts and sincerely 
offering our support to the seniors. We 
want to show how proud we are of them and 
offer our congratulations," he stated. “Th is 
is what we tried to do w ith the banquet, but 
it just was not working."
The main purpose for having the 15 to 20 |
thousand dollar affair is to allow the seniors 
iors to meet alumni from around the coun­
try w ho can help them get established, once 
they finally graduate. They are able to help 
the students with networking and making 
other such contacts that they may find 
useful when they get out in the job market. 
Also, the banquet allows the seniors to all 
meet together at one last formal function as 
a class.
The Zero Year Reunion party is exactly 
the type of gathering that will allow the 
seniors to all gel together for the last time in 
a pleasant atmosphere on campus, accord­
ing to Maloney. In addition to this party and 
the gifts being given, Maloney recom­
mends that a “Senior Ball” could be held in 
lieu of the banquet. The benefits of this, 
over the banquet, are that it could be held on 
campus (in the ballroom), and there would 
not he the hassle and organizational prob­
lems associated with planning a large ban­
quet. Maloney does not know when or it 
such an event would be planned for thi* 
year's class.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—November 10,1987
BByKA/MT»naik»«WiKr) it«
vwi^f tnw »!*• FN\\M 7/ \1I»/ «If»
Ortega Says Soviets 
Promise Continued Aid
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) — President 
Daniel Ortega returned from Moscow Thurs­
day and said he received promises of contin­
ued Soviet aid to help Nicaragua fight the 
U.S.-backed Contra rebels.
Nov. 5 was the first deadline of a new peace 
plan for Central America. Compliance with 
the treaty will be checked in January.
Thursday night, Ortega announced moves 
toward the plan's implementation at a pro- 
government rally.
He indicated that he would take steps to 
comply with the terms of the peace agreement, 
including beginning indirect negotiations with 
the U.S.-backed Contra rebels and freedom for 
some political prisoners.
Ortega linked many of the steps to an end of 
U.S. funding for the Contras. Also, he said that 
negotiations with the Contras would not in­
clude any power-sharing proposals.
Ortega, who went to Moscow for the 70th 
anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution, said 
that without Soviet help “our country would 
not have the material resources to resist the 
aggression.”
Iranians Celebrate 
‘Death to America Day’
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) — Millions of 
Iranians chanted anti-American slogans at 
rallies in Tehran and other cities Wednesday to 
mark the eighth anniversary of the 1979 storm­
ing of the U.S. Embassy, Iran’s official news 
agency reported.
The Islamic Republic News Agency, moni­
tored in N icosia, said hundreds of thousands of 
Revolutionary Guards, soldiers and govern­
ment officials were demonstrating on “Death 
To America Day.”
Prime Minister Hussein Musavi and other 
leaders had exhorted Iranians to make the 
national holiday “a day on which America 
should tremble with fear.”
The news agency said throngs of Iranian 
demonstrators crowding into Azadi Square in 
western Tehran for a major rally shouted slo­
gans denouncing the intervention of the 
United States and its European allies in the 
gulf.
Iran Speedboat Attack 
Sets Tanker Ablaze
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) — Rocket-pro- 
pelled grenades fired from an Iranian speed­
boat slammed into a U.S.-operated tanker in 
the Persian Gulf Friday, setting the ship’s 
engine room ablaze, gulf shipping sources and 
Lloyd’s of London said.
There were no reported casualties. The at­
tack apparently was in retaliation for an Iraqi 
attack Wednesday on an Iranian supertanker, 
said the shipping sources’ who spoke on con­
dition of anonymity.
They said five grenades struck the 103,584- 
ton Grand Wisdom, a Panamanian-flagged 
tanker managed by Teekay Shipping Co. of 
Long Beach, Calif., as it was sailing in the 
southern gulf about 30 miles off Dubai.
More than one shipping source said the 
Grand Wisdom, loaded with crude oil from 
Kuwait, was not only U.S.-managed but also 
American-owned.
Two grenades hit the tanker’s engine room, 
two struck the steering gear, and one hit the 
bridge. Nevertheless, the tanker was able to 
sail under its own power to Dubai for inspec­
tion after the crew extinguished the blaze, 
Lloyd’s and the sources said.
Takeshita Elected As 
Japan’s Prime Minister
TOKYO (AP) — Veteran politician Noboru 
Takeshita was elected prime minister Thurs­
day and immediately appointed a cabinet that 
is expected to continue trying to ease trade 
friction, especially with the United States.
Takeshita, who was handpicked last month 
by his predecessor, Yasuhiro Nakasone, to 
head the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, won 
a strong 442 of the 744 votes cast in the 
Parliament where the party holds a majority.
The 63-year-old Takeshita, known for his 
strength in tackling issues through patient 
backroom consensus building, became the 
46th prime minister since Japan adopted its 
parliamentary system in 1885.
&
B
••••••••<•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
* * L ?
* ^ ?Qeityou/iAct ^loyetli&i atBUSCH (¡RRDEHS
America’s premier theme park in Williams­
burg, Va. is conducting auditions for over 
200 singers, dancers, musicians, variety 
artists, technicians, and supervisors. You 
could be part of the magic that truly makes 
Busch Gardens an entertainment "experi­
ence.” So get your act together and 'shine' 
at our 1988 auditions.
Audition Dates:
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Wednesday, November 18th 
1-5 p.m.
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall 
Dance Studio #4
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Sunday, December 6 
12-5 p.m.
Walnut Street 
Theatre 
9th and Walnut 
Streets
-Busch-Bus
Art Affirmative Acton/E Qua! Opportunity Employer. M/F/H
Filipino Police Arrest 
Suspected Communists
MANILA (DJ) — Philippine police rounded 
up hundreds in raids on alleged Communist 
hideouts Wednesday, and officials said next 
month’s Southeast Asian summit would go 
ahead despite an attempt to bomb the meeting 
site.
Police and air force security units launched 
the raids in two districts of suburban Pasay 
City near Manila’s airport. The areas are be­
lieved to include hideouts of both Communist 
urban guerrillas and crime syndicates.
National
News
Ginsburg Withdraws 
Court Nomination
WASHINGTON — Judge Douglas H. 
Ginsburg, President Reagan’s latest nominee 
to the Supreme Court, asked Saturday to have 
his name withdrawn, after he admitted to 
smoking marijuana as recently as 1979.
President Reagan had said Friday that he 
would not withdraw the Supreme Court nomi­
nation of Ginsburg and said his candidate will 
survive “if there’s any justice in Washington.”
Reagan said, “He was not an addict...nothing 
of that kind.”
On Capitol Hill, however, Senate Majority 
Leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., said Ginsburg 
“should give very, very serious consideration” 
to withdrawing his nomination.
Byrd said Ginsburg’s revelation was “one 
more drop, cumulative drop, on the stone,” 
referring to conflict-of-interest allegations 
already raised.
The President said “I’m old enough to have 
seen that era in which his generation and 
generations earlier” had regarded drugs.
“How many of us would like to have every­
thing we did when we were younger put on the 
books?”
Asked if Ginsburg should have “Just Said 
No,” the theme of Nancy Reagan’s anti-drug 
campaign, Reagan chuckled but did not an­
swer.
Negotiators Continue 
U.S. Budget Talks
WASHINGTON (DJ) — House Republican 
Whip Trent Lott, R-Miss., a participant in the 
White House-congressional budget summit, 
said, “I think we’re close” to getting an agree­
ment.
But Lott acknowledged that neither Presi­
dent Reagan nor congressional Democrats 
have yet come close to signing off on the so- 
called Michel deficit reduction plan offered 
Friday.
He said congressional Democrats don’t ap­
pear ready “to close the loop” on the plan
offered by House GOP leader Bob Michel, R- 
111.
Lott said Democrats criticized the Michel 
proposal for containing insufficient revenue.
The Michel plan, on the revenue side, con­
templates $8 billion of tax increases plus $5 
billion of asset sales and $1.4 billion of user 
fees to raise some $14.4 billion in fiscal 1988.
The overall plan contemplates $30 billion in 
fiscal 1988 deficit reduction.
A number of financial market analysts have 
warned that markets would not be receptive to 
any deficit reduction plan that relies signifi­
cantly on asset sales.
Separately, Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., a 
Senate negotiator, said Friday morning’s 
meeting of President Reagan with Republican 
congressional leaders was “the best meeting 
I’ve ever seen at the White House.”
Packwood refused to characterize the Michel 
initiative as “the Republican plan.” Packwood 
continued to predict that the summit will yield 
a breakthrough only on the eve of the Nov. 20 
deadline. That is the day automatic spending 
cuts are to occur under the Gramm-Rudman 
Act if Congress has not achieved savings of at 
least $23 billion by other means.
Weinberger Resigns As 
Secretary of Defense
WASHINGTON (UPI) — Secretary Caspar 
Weinberger, as expected, announced his res­
ignation after nearly seven years of fighting 
for increased Pentagon budgets and presiding 
over a massive military buildup.
President Reagan named National Security 
Adviser Frank Carlucci to succeed Wein­
berger and Deputy NSC Director Lt. Gen. 
Colin Powell to replace Carlucci. Powell, a 
black, would be Reagan’s sixth national secu­
rity adviser.
City Blanketed With 
Smoke from WV Fires
PITTSBURGH — Large forest fires 
throughout the state of West Virginia caused 
Pittsburgh to be covered with a layer of smoke 
late Saturday and early Sunday morning.
Voter l\irnout Low 
In County Election
PITTSBURGH — In county elections held 
Tuesday only 48.6% of the registered voters 
went to the polls. Democrats swept the seats.
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE 1960
yKARKA LKNH
Where you'll always find the latest collections from Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy 'Z, Polo, Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue Fox Chapel Plaza
Squirrel Hill Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads421-5710 781-0811

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page 3
Andrew To 
Get Additions
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffer iter 
Carnegie Mellon University’s Andrew 
'»Computer network, developed together with 
IBM in 1982, will implement two additions to 
improve the current system. A dictionary, 
thesaurus, and spelling corrector from 
Houghton Mifflin Co. and Kyoto Common 
LISP (KCL) software from Ibuki are to be 
added.
The American Heritage Dictionary, Second 
College Edition, will provide the on-line user 
^ with 200,000 words, along with usage notes, 
pronunciation, etymology, definitions, and 
other information. The Roget’s II Electronic 
Thesaurus will have synonyms and definitions 
for about 45,000 words.
The spelling corrector will verify that words 
are spelled correctly, and present suggestions 
for those which are misspelled. The Right 
Word Usage Alert system will identify homo- 
« nyms (such as hear/here) and other commonly 
confused words, and offer other alternatives 
with definitions for nearly 1,600 words.
Ibuki’s KCL software was purchased in 
order to expand Andre w’s capabilities to teach 
and research artificial intelligence. William Y. 
Arms, Vice President for Academic, com­
ments on the advantages of having the KCL: 
“[It] has a system that runs on many different 
% vendors’ hardware and doesn’t need a power­
ful workstation to run on.”
According to Alan Sobel, research program­
mer in psychology, the KCL software “will 
serve in the interim for artificial intelligence 
teaching and research” for the current UNIX 
4.2 BSD environment while the Computer 
Science Department develops a powerful 
Common LISP which will require a MACH 
base to yet be developed.
Presidential Evaluation Released
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor 
Every five years since the beginning of his 
fifteen years in office, Carnegie Mellon 
President Richard M. Cyert has asked to be 
evaluated. The findings of the 1987 Com­
mission to Evaluate the President, the third 
such evaluation, were recently made pub­
lic.
Though the Commission found that 
“there is no question that President Cyert 
has been outstandingly successful in lead­
ing with dignity, intelligence, foresight, 
intensity and dedication” it did suggest that 
“he...is at the age when specific planning 
for retirement cannot be avoided.”
The report was extremely critical of some 
aspects of Cyert’s administration.
One of the largest areas of criticism was 
the University’s various “master plans.” 
Though first commending Cyert on imple­
menting and anticipating the need for stra­
tegic building and planning procedures, the 
Commission blasted the President for “the 
apparent, almost immediate, disregard” of 
the Caudill, Rowlett and Scott Master Plan 
of 1984/85, the first such plan. “It is hard to 
escape the conclusion that the money spent 
on this first plan was wasted.”
Next, the Commission questioned the 
latest plan because it “largely disregarded 
the stated program and the projected costs 
and had little if anything to do with the 
former master plan.” With that, the Com­
mission challenged the President to com­
pletely rethink the execution and planning 
of campus building because of a lack of 
oversight and coordination.
Another area that raised the 
Commission’s concern was Cyert’s han­
dling of the Capital Campaign. Specificly, the 
Commission was not satisfied that the Presi­
dent was doing enough to raise money for the 
University Center; it was particularly worried 
that CMU internal funds that could have been 
earmarked for the Center were spent on the 
renovations to the Bureau of Mines complex 
and the construction of the new Physical Plant 
building.
In the area of undergraduate teaching, the 
Commission urged the President do more to 
get students involved in extra-curricular ac-
“It is time to restore better 
balance while preserving all 
that has been gained.” 
—Report from the 1987 
Commission to Evaluate the 
President
tivities, saying that education should not stop 
in the classroom.
On the quality of undergraduate and gradu­
ate student life and education, the Commission 
urged more attention be given to freshmen and 
sophomores. Its argument was that the 
University’s special sort of educational ap­
proach that emphasizes association with re­
searchers, early specialization, and a focus on 
job potential does not leave room for under­
classmen. Further, this educational style takes 
“tremendous university resources, while their 
benefits to students are at best indirect” The 
report cited the problems associated with 
teaching in a research institution, and said 
Cyert should take a bigger part in making sure
one is not emphasized over the other.
Another area the report cited as inade­
quate was student support services. Stu­
dent support services, “compared to other 
institutions, seem particularly limited in 
light of at least three factors: the 
university’s growth, the low faculty con­
tact in the first two years, and the competi­
tive and stressful environment”
The report was critical of Cyert’s deci­
sion-making and management style. It said 
that Cyert put too much empathsis on in­
formal communication channels, and his 
management style sometimes led to com­
petition. “A comment that the Commission 
heard several times was: ‘There should be 
less fighting on the sixth floor of Warner 
Hall.’” Along with management style, the 
report claimed that important issues were 
not dealt with quickly or openly enough.
Nevertheless, the criticisms were offered 
constructively: the Commission was 
largely pleased with Cyert's performance. 
“The Commission...warmly endorses his 
remaining in office.” As evidence of 
Cyert’s accomplishments, the report 
quoted US News and World Report’s uni­
versity presidential poll that ranked Carne­
gie Mellon as one of the top fifteen under­
graduate institutions in the nation.
The Commission was appointed by the 
Faculty Senate Executive Committee and 
was composed of 18 individuals from the 
Board of Trustees and faculty. University 
Professor Dana Scott chaired the Commis­
sion.
The Report from the 1987Commission to 
Evaluate the President is available in the 
Student Senate office.
Ttaab TKou 8tum,N,atAm LKSn 
dverrr LtjtgS fK hS,ACSugin MoA
continued from page 1
departments, so I figured ‘Hey, this would be 
great for the English Department.’ I submitted 
my proposal and it was accepted. Then we had 
one happy hour last year, and we were plan­
ning on having a happy hour every month this 
year.”
“What happened with the Design majors and 
[the English majors],” continued to Joseph 
“was that there wasn’t any problem. They 
^ were selling beers upstairs for a dollar a piece, 
and we were downstairs having beer and 
pizza...ours was basically free to anyone who 
would come along and want one. It was for the 
English Department, but we had enough so 
that it wasn’t a problem to give it to anybody. 
And the Design majors were coming down­
stairs and taking some of our beers...no prob­
lem.
“I thought everything went well. We cleaned 
/ up the place, and got all the beer out of there. 
And I made sure our mess was fine. Then I 
came back on Monday, found out that the 
Dean’s office had been flooded and that the 
CDC had been flooded.
According to Joseph, a Design major had 
gotten into a room and plugged up the sink. 
Water overflowed and drained down into the 
Dean’s office and down into the CDC and
* destroyed a Sun computer.
In response to the damage done in his office 
and the CDC, Feinberg sent memos to the 
departments of English and Design saying that 
no more happy hours would be allowed in 
public places. .
Joseph, however, feels that the situation is 
not completely resolved. “I imagine,” said 
Joseph, “that we will have happy hours again, 
" but they won’t be anything like they used to be.
Everyone will be required to be over twenty- 
one. But that’s the way it’s been all along, 
anyway.”
Like most departments, the happy hours of 
the departments of English and Design are run 
by students. According to Head of Design, 
Carrol Gantz, “We don’t organize happy 
hours like the one causing damage to Dean 
Feinberg’s office, and they are not our respon­
sibility. That’s a student-organized event.”
Feinberg pointed out that university policy 
does not permit alcohol in public places. It 
does not permit under-age drinking, either. 
“Damages totalled 7,000 dollars,” stated Fein­
berg. “Ceilings and walls were destroyed, as 
well as four inches of water in a Sun com­
puter.”
Regarding the organization of the happy 
hours and their use of alcohol, the Dean de­
clares, “Somebody thought they had permis­
sion for those parties, but they didn't.” So, in 
a sense, it took a major disaster such as this to 
persuade Feinberg to enforce the university 
rules governing consumption of alcohol. “We 
like to think that students should get together 
and have a good time. But they have to follow 
the university rules.”
Conflicting reports of the administration’s 
regard for happy hours remains, though. Jo­
seph feels that the Dean’s ruling was unjust 
because “The only restriction that was put 
upon their happy hours was] that everyone had 
to be twenty-one. I feel that we got a pretty bad 
deal from the Design Department, because I 
never did anything wrong. People in our de­
partment never got out of hand. And we 
cleaned up well afterwards...Because the 
Design majors [screwed] up, we’re getting the 
raw end of the deal.”
Three Carnegie Mellon Professors to Speak
Science Writers fib Meet On Campus
By ERIC W. LEUUETTE 
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
1 Three Carnegie Mellon professors will 
give talks tomorrow when the Council for 
the Advancement of Science Writing 
(CASW) meets on campus.
| The talks come as pan of the CASW’s 
25th annual briefing. Theconference began 
Sunday, with speakers appearing at the 
William Penn Hotel yesterday, today, and 
Thursday.
| diversity Professor Allen Newell will 
speak tomorrow morning on artificial intel­
ligence. He will highlight a computer- 
based model called SOAR.
§ Newell will be followed by Raj Reddy, 
Director of the Robotics Institute. He will
discuss inventions that may become pos* 
siblewith theadventof robotic research. An 
on-site tour and demonstration will follow 
his lecture.
The final speaker at Carnegie Mellon will 
be Robert Birge, Director of the Center for 
Molecular Electronics. He will speak on ad­
vances in biotechnology which may aid the 
miniaturization of computer components.
Tonight, the annual CASW banquet will 
be held at the William Penn Hotel. The 
banquet includes the presentation of the 
National Association of Sciencc Writers’ 
Science-in-Society Journalism Awards.
The briefing was made possible by grants 
from Carnegie Mellon and the National 
Science Foundation.
Senate Approves Referendum
continued from page 1
tion was approved in a 9-5 roll call vote, he 
withdrew it from consideration.
Bostin submitted the amended version of the 
resolution to the Senate under new business. It 
was approved by a majority of Senate.
Student Union Referendum Approved
Senator Peter Zapf presented a referendum 
to Senate which asked the question “Would 
you like the Student Union’s funding to be 
stopped?” The referendum would have been 
non-binding; if it had passed it would not have 
cut off the Union’s funding.
After some discussion, the referendum was 
changed to ask “Were you offended by the 
Oct. 14 issue of the Student Union?” That 
issue included an prominent expletive on the 
front page and a cartoon on condoms.
The referendum was approved by Senate on 
a roll call vote 7-5. Four senators abstained.
It will be included in this week’s Senate 
elections.
Milk Crate Possession Law Clarified
Student Dormitory Council representative 
Delia Vayansky clarified the status of stolen 
milk crates, which was misrepresented in last 
week’s issue of The Tartan.
“There will not be milk crate police coming 
to campus,” said Vayansky.
Possession of stolen property has always 
been against the law; a new Pennsylvania law 
simply attaches specific penalties to the pos­
session of stolen milk crates. No inspections of 
dorm rooms will be made for crates, nor will 
dairies come to campus, as stated in last 
week’s Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Thistle
87
lJ bKo st“S AKm bSm a,NHSR oa 
bKou ”Gv fs,nmcSe acStnS RK nK 
KA -PL k..p..3 Ku fTx­M 
k..p.D3 CSmWSSA . aj tAR w 
aj ,A MH,CKe ­j’ w2’ fs,n ,A 
ScoRSn aSKacS KA msS Wt,m,Ag 
c,nm’ 8uKCcSjn1 Utcc 94GEI’ 
fstAH bKo’

---------------------------------------------------

November IO, 1987—The Tartan—Page 5
6,AomSn KJ msS MmoRSAm MSAtmSe 'K“’ 2
Present: Berkowitz, Bostin, Christina, Clark, 
Frazier, Gallo, Goldstein, Graupera, Green­
berg, Hausman, Jainchill, Kombrek, Levine, 
Levy, Mukherjee, Steppel, Trinh, Zapf. 
Absent: Berger, Gantshar, Liu, Sherlock. 
Ex-Officio Present: Robitshek, Vayansky. 
Ex-Officio Absent: Matsko, Skolkin. 
'President: Andrew Robitshek: There is a 
parking committee. Future resolution for 
mandatory course evaluations. University free 
time is Tuesdays and Thursdays 4:30-6:30. 
Should be no classes or exams at that time. 
Athletic department clubs sponsored by Sen­
ate may receive more funding from Ath. 
Dep’t. Homecoming T-shirts in bookstore 
$4.00. Board of Trustees meeting: Quality of 
Sife report. Dean’s council report. 3 day ses­
sion- each dep’t talks of their new ideas. Uni­
versity center start 2 years after dorm is fin­
ished. Trustees showing commitment to fun­
draising for student center. Are breaking down 
costs for donations. Talking ’of increasing 
parking lot down in ground making number of 
spots 700 not 400. Questioning if increase of 
student center from 4000 to 9000 sq. ft. for 
«tudent activities is enough.
SDC: Delia Vayansky: Pittsburgh Dairies not 
coming to campus. New Pennsylvania law 
against owning stolen milk crates goes into 
effect Dec. 6. Will still look into room entering 
policy. Eric Wittle sick. Glenn Meter new 
SDC president. SDC/Senate social was fun. 
Faculty Representative: Dr. Fetkovich: 
There has been one report so far from each 
council on Faculty Senate. Faculty decided 
they need a student representative. Dean Cox 
will be middleman. Recommendation from 
last year- institute a faculty dorm resident 
program. Leafleting referred to Faculty Af­
fairs Council. Senator Steppel recommenda­
tion- Put Faculty Senate Minutes in Tartan. 
Senator Greenberg- Why are only 2500 copies 
of Focus printed? Fetkovich will look into it.
Student Affairs: Edward Lilley: Student Af­
fairs is distributing free tickets to CMU play 
Portrait showing on Nov. 4, 5, and 10. Get
tickets in front of Skibo or in SA office with
I.D. Students can have up to 4 tickets. 
Academic Affairs: Lisa Christina: Will be a 
Last Lecture on Nov. 10,4:30, Gregg Hall. 
Funding & Recognition: Tamal Mukherjee: 
Vote passed to recognize JES Christian group 
as non-funded organization. Fall Budget 
passed around. Discussion at next meeting 
with representatives from all organizations. 
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: Laurie 
Gallo: Happy Hour Thursday 4-6 Scotland 
yard. Elections next week. Need suggestions 
for Carnival Theme. Did stuff mailboxes. 
Rules: Shep Bostin: No meeting this week. 
Old Business: Constitution removed from 
table and passed. Student Senate Resolution 
regarding CMU Security draft policy regard­
ing free speech passed as: “We, the Student 
Senate, urge that provision number three of the 
aforementioned policy be changed to : Unin­
vited members of the public not being of the 
CMU community are not permitted to distrib­
ute leaflets or engage in other forms of demon­
stration on campus property without first reg­
istering with the Student Affairs office.” For: 
Bostin, Christina, Clark, Frazier, Gallo, Lev­
ine, Levy, Trinh, Zapf. Against: Graupera, 
Greenberg, Jainchill, Kombrek, Steppel. 
Abstained: Hausman, Mukherjee.
New Business: Zapf: non-binding referen­
dum to stop funding to Student Union. Discus­
sion. Senate passed referendum to ask at elec­
tions: Were you offended by the Oct. 14 issue 
of the Student Union? For: Bostin, Christina, 
Clark, Frazier, Levine, Levy, Zapf. Against: 
Greenberg, Hausman, Jainchill, Kombrek, 
Steppel. Abstentions: Gallo, Graupera, 
Mukherjee, Trinh.
Announcements: Elections next Wed. 9 am- 
8 pm, Thurs. 9-7.
Election ’88 News 
Gore, Babbit Admit to Smoking Marijuana
Presidential candidates Albert Gore Jr. 
and Gov. Bruce Babbit admitted Saturday 
that they had smoked marijuana before. 
Three other Democrats — Gov. Michael 
Dukakis, Rep. Richard Gephardt, and the 
Rev. Jesse Jackson — said they had never 
used drugs.
Babbit made the admission in response to 
reporters’ questions while on the campaign 
in Iowa. He said he had smoked marijuana 
in the late 1960’s while a civil rights worker
in the South. Babbit is the former Gover­
nor of Arizona.
Gore said he and his wife Tipper had used 
marijuana while in college. Gore, a Sena­
tor from Tennessee and the youngest can­
didate, also said he used pot while serving 
in Vietnam. Gore attended Harvard.
These admissions were prompted by 
revelations that Supreme Court Nominee 
Douglas Ginsburg had used marijuana 
while a law professor at Harvard.
CMU Rowing Club Planned
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon appears to be on the verge 
of participating in a brand new sport, crew. An 
organizational meeting was held last week and 
plans were outlined to form a new campus 
rowing club.
Despite the apparent natural setting for crew 
competitions, until recently there has not been 
any competitive rowing in the Pittsburgh area. 
A community organization, Three Rivers 
Rowing, has been attempting to change this by 
sponsoring events along the area’s rivers.
The efforts received a large boost when the 
Community Redevelopment Corporation 
donated an area of land on the tip of Herr’s 
Island in the Allegheny River. Three Rivers 
Rowing is now attempting to raise money to 
build a boathouse on the island.
The organization has gone to several area 
universities to attempt forming crew clubs at 
area schools.
Before coming to Carnegie Mellon, the 
group had helped to organize clubs at
Duquesne and Pitt.
The story on campus started several months 
ago when President Cyert was approached 
with the idea. He was enthusiastic enough to 
encourage Mike Mills and Harry Printz to call 
an off-campus meeting to see what interest 
exists at the university.
According to Printz, the proposed club will 
undergo the typical growing pains of any new 
organization. “We’U try to organize as a club 
sport, we need to be recognized by Senate.” 
Mills outlined what lies ahead for club 
members. “We’re going to come up with an 
organizational meeting. Then people who are 
really interested, we’ll give hints on training.” 
It may be a while before students from Car­
negie Mellon are competing against Harvard 
and Yale, but another fate may be in store for 
a campus club. Atheletic Director Jim Banner 
appeared at last week’s meeting and raised the 
possibility of a University Athletic Associa­
tion sponsored crew competition. Several 
UAA scnools including Rochester, Chicago, 
and Washington have rowing clubs.
STUDENT
H"Z
LU
COP3z,n,Vt j,nn tWmma a a
Student Senate Elections 
Wed. and Thurs. Nov. 11 and 12 
Skibo Grey Matter
Vote for your Student Senators and let your views be heard on important campus issues !
LU 
h- 
< 
Z
LUNA
STUDENT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—November 10,1987
Crime and Incident Report: October 30 to November 6>
10/30 THEFT 3:41 pm Persons unknown 
removed $90.00 from female at Campus Print­
ing. Victim was staff.
10/31 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 2:09 am 
Persons unknown knocked over Morewood 
Gardens D Tower water fountain. Adjacent 
areas and garage storage areas flooded. Total 
value of damage unknown.
11/1 SPECIAL 2:52 am Received a com­
plaint that a uniformed security person with a 
gun was following a drunk person down 
Forbes Avenue. Campus Police responded 
and stopped a white male wearing a white 
Pittsburgh Police shirt. Police leather, and 
handcuff case. Perpetrator had no weapon. 
Perpetrator taken to Security Office. Officers 
called perpetrator's parents and found his fa­
ther is a Pittsburgh Police officer. Perpetrator 
stated he was wearing uniform as a Halloween 
costume. Perpetrator was released: no crimi­
nal offense. Drunk was not found.
11/1 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 3:48 am 
Fluorescent orange paint sprayed over 1977 
Volkswagen Dasher while it was parked in 
Fine Arts parking lot.
11/1 PROPERTY DAMAGE 1:50 pm 
Student's motorcycle had damage to its seat 
and right mirror while it was parked behind 
Morewood Gardens B Tower. No damage 
estimate available.
11/2 SPECIAL 12:48 am Scaife Hall custo­
dians reported that a mounted TV had been 
ripped off the wall. Officer found a Panasonic 
color video monitor on the floor. Could not 
determine if it had fallen or been pulled off.
11/2 ASSAULT 12:59 pm DTD brother 
reported being assaulted while refusing an­
other student admittance to a DTD party. DTD 
brother was standing in the DTD doorway 
when a student and an unknown female tried to 
enter. When the DTD brother put his hand 
across the door to refuse admittance, he was 
“sucker punched” by the male student. DTD
brother suffered a broken upper tooth, two 
loose lower teeth, and a split lower lip. Victim
did not press charges.
11/2 ASSAULT/ROBBERY 8:06 pm 
CMU student was assaulted and robbed as he 
was walking along Devonshire almost to 
Centre on his way home to Carol Apts. Two 
persons unknown hit victim from behind, 
knocked off his glasses, and demanded he 
remove his green Polo jacket. Victim called 
Campus Police who called the City Police. 
Perpetrators are black males, 20-25 years old,. 
5’11”-6’0" tall, medium build, both wearing 
blue pants and dark corduroy jackets: one had 
a fur collar. Victim’s jacket valued at $35.00.
11/2 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 6:42 pm 
Persons unknown broke into a gray 1984 
Chevy van parked in the 601 Clyde Street 
parking lot. Perpetrators broke in through the 
driver’s side vent window. Nothing stolen.
11/2 ARREST 9:15 pm Informed of an in­
toxicated female sitting on a bench next to the 
ATO patio. Female was transported to Secu­
rity Office so that her parents could be called. 
While in Security Office, female became ver­
bally abusive and belligerent. Female was then 
placed under arrest and transported to the 
Public Safety Building where she was later 
picked up by her parents.
11/3 THEFT 12:00 pm Persons unknown 
took an IBM Selectric II typewriter from the 
PR office. $600.00 value.
11/3 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 6:09 pm 
First floor Mudge House resident reported 
hearing suspicious noises outside his dorm 
window. Reported hearing, “There are people 
inside and they may call the police.” One 
perpetrator described as a white male, 19 years 
old, 6’0”, with a blond ere wcut, wearing a dark 
plaid short sleeve shirt, blue jeans, and tennis 
shoes; other perpetrator was not seen. Victim 
said he was aware of recent string of breakins.
11/4 ASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY 6:02 
pm A lieutenant with the U.S. Postal Author-
requested help about a package mailed by a 
CMU student. Package had “Chinese Silk­
worm Missile” and “Mail Bomb” written on it. 
Student was contacted by Campus Police. 
Student said the package contained a cassette, 
and some newspapers. Student agreed not to 
write “any more dumb stuff’ on packages; 
student advised he’d be arrested next time.
11/5 BURGLARY 3:57 pm Persons un­
known entered a student’s room in Morewood 
Gardens and removed a blue and color with 
yellow trim elbow-length jersey. Jersey had a 
gold and blue Greek lettered “DU” on the front 
and a gold number “8” on the back. $20 valu
11/6 FIRE 2:00 am Officers responded to 
a small brushfire burning on the hillside be­
hind Doherty Apts, driveway. City Fire De­
partment notified. Fire damaged 15 feet of 
grass and several shrubs.
0,g 0uKmsSun tAR M,nmSun 8uKgutj UKj,Ag mK Utjaon
By NATALIE PETERSON
Tartan Staffv>riter
The Big Brothers and Sisters program is 
being brought to Carnegie Mellon. Stu­
dents will soon have the opportunity to act 
as Big Brothers or Sisters to children, ages
7-14, who live in single parent homes.
Children that are brought up in such an 
environment are more likely to develop 
problems than those that are raised in two 
parent families. In addition, they are often 
lonely and in need of dependable friend­
ship. A Big Brother or Sister can help a 
child to escape these disadvantages by 
spending a few hours a week offering their 
attention and companionship to a Little
Brother or Sister.
Junior Fred Goff worked with Dean of Stu­
dent Affairs Brad Walter, and Executive Di­
rector of Big Brothers and Sisters of NW 
Pennsylvania, Dr. Iris Nahemow to bring a Big 
Brothers and Sisters program to CMU.
As student organizer, Goff hopes that the 
program at CMU will, “set a pattern for Pitt 
and other area schools to follow.” He feels that 
acting as a Big Brother or Sister will not only 
help the Little Brothers and Sisters, but will 
also be, “a really big advantage for the Big 
Brothers and Sisters themselves.”
Beginning next semester, a group of Little 
Brothers and Sisters will be transported to 
CMU each Saturday to spend the afternoon
with their Big Brothers and Sisters. Other 
universities have supported such programs, 
but the Big Brothers and Sisters program at 
CMU will be the first of its kind in western 
Pennsylvania. Once the program is in full 
swing, funding will most likely be sought 
from Student Activities. The program pres­
ently has a grant pending from PPG. Both 
the administration and Big Brothers and 
Sisters of NW Pennsylvania have offerred 
full support for a Big Brothers and Sisters 
program at CMU.
Those interested in becoming a Big 
Brother or Sister are invited to attend the 
first organizational meeting on Wednes­
day, November 11, at 8:00pm in PH 225C.
>
UKAgutmoctm,KAn mK msS W,AASun 
KJ msS 7uStm 0tccKKA ­tJJcS:
»
First Prize - Two Round-Trip Airplane Tickets 
Lory Sedas 
Second Prize - VCR 
Leslie Williams 
Third Prize - Portable CD Plaver 
Terry Lim 
Fourth Prize - $100 Bookstore Gift Certificate 
Carlos Rodriguez 
Fifth Prize - Free Pizza 
Ted Tsenas
Thanks to all the people who bought our balloons and Cameron Coca-Cola, Pesi Cola, Entropy - CMU Vending, and the CMU Bookstore for their donation of prizes. 
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________I

---------------------------------------------------

Nov 10
First Round Challenge Sex Bowl
Nov 11
Session by Professor Ernie Alieva 
Topic: Sex Drugs and All That:
Problems of Individual Rights and Respect on Moral Issues
Nov 12 
Finals for Sex Bowl
Challenge College Sex Bowl
Relationship Topics
How Much do You Really Know??
Come Try to Beat the Reigning Sex Bowl Champs 
Get a S person team together and meet at
Morewood Rec Room, Nov 10- 7:30 p.m.
Call Donna Morosky at ext. 2075 to register your team
REFRESHMENTS PRIZES INFORMATIONLaughs!! Laughs!! Laughs!!
Presented by Housing and Student Affairs
CIGNA CORPORATION
CIGNA
ATTENTION 
MATH MAJORS 
(and other majors with math emphasis)
CIGNA CORPORATION
will discuss 
Actuarial Careers 
in
Property - Casualty Insurance and Life Insurance
To learn more about this challenging field, plan to attend a meeting at which Life and Casualty Actuaries will discuss career opportunities at CIGNA.
Members of all classes are welcome - it's never too early to start thinking about your post-college career.
Refreshments to follow.
Date: Tuesday, November 17, 1987
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m.
Place: Carnegie-Mellon UniversitySkibo Student Activities Center - Room 210
The President's Distinguished Lecture Series
ByKAKRLA
Robert Palmer
'SW OKuH f,jSn 8KapFtYY 6on,N Uu,m,N
Monday November 23 
3:30 pm
Wherrett Room, Skibo
Admission is free

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Athletic Facilities Need A Boost Now
O'
“...They should play and practice in first rate facilities at reasonable 
times. Their equipment should be safe, of high quality, and conducive to 
the best performance possible...”
Surprisingly enough, that statement comes from an agreement signed by 
Carnegie Mellon University less than two years ago when it joined the 
University Athletic Association. A look at currently existing facilities 
reveals a pool which is neither wide enough to accommodate a conference 
championship, nor deep enough to allow diving competitions to take 
place. It also shows outdoor practice space that is so limited that varsity 
teams must use the IM field and the Cut for practice.
Wait, be patient, extols Warner Hall. In just a few years we will have a 
new field, a new pool, and new intramural facilities.
Perhaps, but go up to the third floor of Hunt Library where you can see 
the Master Plan from 1968. Maybe you can find a copy of the plan that 
CRS Sirrine created in 1985. Carnegie Mellon has a history of big 
promises and little action.
Now we are told that the Tech Field complex is going to be dismantled 
come December to allow the field to be turned 90 degrees and a new dorm 
to be built. However, ask either Warner Hall or the Athletic Department 
what the new field complex will look like or where the football team will 
play next year. You won’t get an answer.
Plans are wonderful. If the current Master Plan is followed, future 
Carnegie Mellon student-athletes will enjoy facilities on a level of other 
schools in our conference—if they are ever built.
The best thing the University could do is to finally set the plan in stone; 
waiting for the new facilities to be completely paid for is not acceptable. 
It is unfair to current athletes and future recruits to promise them new 
facilities that may never appear. Perhaps another excerpt from the UAA 
Agreement is appropriate.
“Athletic programs are not considered income centers, nor are they 
public entertainment. They are extracurricular activities for students and 
should be given consideration similar to other such institutionally spon­
sored activities. Further, they should complement the academic experi­
ence. Their quality should reflect the quality of the academic environment 
within which they exist. Division III is an approach to athletics — not a 
synonym for third rate.”
Senate Is Too Indeci­sive, Non-committal
It’s hard to take Student Senate seriously when they do something as silly 
as passing the referendum they did last week. The referendum, which is 
scheduled to appear on Student Senate ballots tomorrow and Thursday, 
read as follows: “Were you offended by the October 14 issue of the 
Student Union?”
Why is Senate asking this ludicrous question? It seems like a half-assed 
approach to settling a problem. Senate should take the the “all or none” 
approach to the situation. If some Senators were offended by the 3-inch 
profanity on the front page of the issue in question, let them make a more 
ambitious move to do something about it. If not, they should just sit 
quietly.
Let’s assume the referendum remains as is. What will this accomplish? 
What if only 2 percent of students were offended? What about 57 percent? 
What would happen if every single person on campus was offended by the 
printing? The referendum is non-binding; there are no signs from Senate 
that they are ready to do anything.
The non-committal attitude is distressing to a student who hopes that the 
Senators are there to protect their constituents’ interests, rather than 
basking in unexcercised power.
Furthermore, what about students who did not find the printing offen­
sive, but think it was a waste of the Student Activities Fee? Are there any 
other possibilities that Senate isn’t even considering? Where are they rep­
resented in this campus-wide election? They’re not — the referendum 
does not allow all sides of the issue to be addressed.
Senate has been arguing with itself for too long; it’s time to stop. Change 
the referendum: make it more decisive, and make it stick.
CLOT HINGGG MEG.. Put ir ON Top OF THE MEh/ Do#M. Y EM, THAÚ THE
Timers
Letters:Seatbelt Evaders Should Pay More For Insurance, Taxes
Editor:
In his “Conservative Comer” column of 
November 3, Thomas A. Heim attacks manda­
tory seatbelt laws by an appeal to the factual 
claim that an individual who doesn’t wear seat 
belts and who is injured in an accident “harms 
no one” and “pays all the consequences.” This 
claim is false.
There are numerous (and rather substantial) 
costs incurred by those who don’t wear 
seatbelts, which are passed onto others who 
don’t take such risks. This is most obvious in 
the case of auto insurance rates. Those who 
don’t wear seatbelts have a greater risk of 
injury, but they don’t pay higher rates than 
those who do wear them. (Perhaps they 
should, but they don’t. This is partly because 
there are significant practical difficulties re­
garding identifying those who take such risks.) 
So, everyone else pays higher rates than they 
otherwise would because of the risks taken by 
those who don’t wear seatbelts. In addition, 
there are costs associated with police and
emergency and medical services which are 
publicly financed. Those who don’t wear 
seatbelts place greater demands upon such 
services, but they pay the same taxes for them 
as others do. Thus, the risk-taking of those who 
don’t wear seatbelts is, in effect, subsidized by 
drivers who wear seatbelts and by the public ar 
large. So much for individuals “paying all the 
consequences” associated with their not wear­
ing seatbelts.
A further consideration with respect to justi­
fying mandatory seatbelt laws, though of a 
more limited scope, is the lives and safety of 
children. Should children be put at a much 
greater risk of harm because their parents or 
guardians don’t like seatbelts? The welfare or 
children provides a clear justification for re­
quiring that they wear seatbelts, regardless of 
the attitudes adults have toward taking risks 
involving their own welfare.
Ernie Alieva
Department of Philosophy
US Needs Action on Deficit
By RUSS COOPER 
What will $23 billion in token cuts do any­
way? The press, as well as those in govern­
ment hungry for free publicity, are creating a 
stir that seems to be fed by the natural eco­
nomic pessimism that 
has lingered in this 
country since the 
early 1970’s. Just as 
we hype the foreign 
affairs front, building up false insecurities and 
expectations along the way, we now deem it 
necessary to do the same by calling together an 
“Economic Summit.” We have to send the 
financial community a message. We have to 
show the world our government is capable of 
straight-forward action in tackling deficits.
Who are we trying to kid anyway? Should we 
actually be surprised that partisan, parochial 
politicians cannot put together a plan to spend 
less money? Well, I guess there are those who 
are still surprised after 70 years that the Soviets 
still do nasty things and don’t keep their word, 
as well. One only has to look as far as the thesis 
for the previous Nobel Award for Economics 
(Buchanan, George Mason University) to see
that we shouldn ’ t expect a spirit of cooperation 
to be conjured up for this task. But maybe that 
is not such a bad thing.
The politicians themselves, from both 
branches, insist that this summit process is 
necessary to make the budget cuts in a fair and 
equitable manner, and to avoid what they call 
“across the board meat-hacking.” All of which ^ 
means that they want to play the usual political 
games, protect the usual favored projects, 
posture with rhetoric, and collect the usual 
political spoils. Witness, if you will, 
PorkSummit I. Remember, the most important 
aspect of all this is to avoid those heartless, 
across-the-board-cuts.
Well, that’s exactly what the Gramm- 
Rudman law would do. It would call for an ' 
exact, pre-determined amount of realistic cuts 
from all areas of the budget It sets goals of 
reduction, and provides the means to reach 
them. If we must truly be hell-bent on cutting 
spending, then it seems what we need is a dose 
of “cold-hearted” efficiency provided by the 
Gramm-Rudman process. It is likely, due to 
the lack of political courage in this country,
continued on page 9 *

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page 9
T Slightly to the left...Hanging An Albatross ’Round Our Necks: Murder Legalized
By MICHAEL WITBROCK & 
MICHAEL FRANZINI
The United States proclaims itself a cham­
pion of human rights. It delights in listing the 
ways in which other governments restrict, 
deny or remove the rights of their citizens, and 
rightly so; govern­
ments which oppress 
those whom they 
should serve deserve 
to be exposed. This 
stance of moral righteousness abroad is ren­
dered ridiculous by a glaring human rights 
violation at home. The United States govern­
ment is planning to kill nearly 2000 of its 
1 citizens. Some of them are innocent.
Amnesty International, perhaps the most 
widely respected human rights group in the 
world, campaigns against the use of the death 
penalty. It takes the position that life is the 
basis of all human freedoms. The right to life 
is unique; once denied, it can never be re­
turned. No restitution can be made for its 
denial. This view is shared by the overwhelm- 
x ing majority of western democracies. Almost 
all have eliminated this blot on justice. It is 
viewed as an anachronism which, like the 
burning of witches, has no place in a civilized 
world. At a time when, according to Amnesty, 
the rest of the world is turning away from this 
penalty, the United States is experiencing a 
surge in executions. So far this year there have 
been 25 executions, more than in any year
€
Inquiring Minds
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
The Reagan Cabinet is the only place where 
people change jobs faster than students change 
majors in H&SS. With Casper Weinberger’s
* resignation last week, Samuel Pierce is the 
only member of 
Reagan’s 1981 Cabi­
net still holding his 
original position. See 
how well you can do
on our pop quiz on top Reagan officials, past 
and present.
* Why did James Watt resign as Secretary of the 
Interior?
A) He offended blacks.
B) He offended women.
C) He offended Jews.
D) He offended cripples.
What were Alexander Haig’s final words as 
Secretary of State?
* A) I’m in charge.
B) They said I could keep the stationery.
C) The Nixon White House was a lot more 
fun, anyway.
• D) Just because I broke one of Nancy’s new 
plates...
What couple is least likely to give paid lectures 
together?
A) Rita Lavalle and Anne Burford
* B) James Baker and Don Regan
C) Casper Weinberger and George Shultz
D) Don Regan and Nancy Reagan
What have been the most popular reasons for 
leaving the Reagan cabinet?
A) Running for President
B) Death
C) Not being allowed to publish memoirs 
** until retiring
D) Indictment
Which memoir will sell the least when Presi­
dent Reagan leaves office ?
A) Casper Weinberger, Frammer’s Euro­
pean Defense on 5 and 10 Million Dol­
lars a Day
B) James Watt, How to Win Friends and In-
£?»v »iuniino'j
since they were resumed in 1977.
There is now little hope that legal challenges 
to the death penalty will succeed. This year the 
Supreme Court ruled that the penalty was not 
unconstitutional. The ruling said that, despite 
overwhelming statistical evidence the penalty 
was often applied disproportionately in cases 
involving black offenders and white victims, 
its use was not capricious, and did not violate 
the principle of equal protection by the law.
This year, Joseph Green Brown was freed 
from prison. Fourteen years earlier he had 
been sentenced to die, convicted of a murder 
he did not commit. On August 1 there were 
1901 persons waiting on death row. Some of 
them are almost certainly innocent. Some of 
them are going to die because they are black 
prisoners convicted by a prejudiced jury. A 
study to be published next month in the Stan­
ford Law Review will report that 350 innocent 
men have been sentenced to die this century. 
23 innocent men have been killed by the state. 
Even proponents of the system admit that it 
kills innocent people. The New York Times 
(Nov. 1) quotes Dr. Ernest van de Haag, who 
supports the penalty: “If you want to punish 
people, mistakes will be made, and some 
people will be executed who are innocent.” 
Callously discounting the value of human 
lives, he continues “if you believe that justice 
requires that murderers will be executed and if 
you further believe that the death penalty de­
ters murders, then I think the advantages more
fluence People
C) Michael Deaver, 101 Ways to Improve 
Your Memory
D) Ronald Reagan, Hands-Off Manage­
ment
Why is Samuel Pierce the only original Re­
agan Cabinet member remaining?
A) Housing and Urban Development does 
nothing anyway.
B) He doubles as Nancy’s hairdresser.
C) No one in the White House knows who 
he is.
D) James Baker didn’t want his job.
Who will be the next National Security Advi­
sor?
A) Robert Bork
B) Douglas Ginsburg
C) Whoever Reagan nominates after 
Ginsburg
D) The guy after C
What has been the greatest accomplishment 
by a Reagan cabinet member?
A) T.H. Bell, Declaring ketchup a vegetable
B) Malcolm Baldridge, Learning horse­
back riding
C) James Watt, Discovering oil in every na­
tional park
D) Ray Donovan, Avoiding jail
What do Reagan cabinet officials fear most?
A) Nancy Reagan
B) Death
C) The IRS
D) The Washington Post
What was Ed Meese’s proudest accomplish­
ment as Attorney General?
A) Wal-Mart banning Playboy
B) Learning that Oliver North had shredded 
documents
C) Selling his Wedtech stock before the 
stock market crash
D) Getting Redskin season tickets
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
and R. Wilson.
N NyH TtHa nwi.nr i va,! B By K .hi.uiwmu/
than offset the disadvantages.”
We do not believe that justice requires the 
government to “take an eye for an eye,” nor is 
there any convincing evidence that it is an 
effective deterrent. Watt Epsy, America's 
foremost death penalty historian, used to sup­
port executions. After a lifetime of studying
Conservative Corner
By THOMAS A. HEIM
There has been a flurry of debate over a 
rivalry between the Carnegie Mellon admini­
stration and free speech proponents. The pro­
ponents of free speech claim that it is the right 
of faculty and stu­
dents (and perhaps 
guests, both invited 
and uninvited) to pro­
mote ideas on campus 
by leafletting or engaging in other interactions 
with students. However, CMU is not and 
should never be an open receptacle to un­
checked influence by political pressure 
groups. Any “free speech” policy must keep 
this in mind. The reasoning the free speech 
proponents set forth is typical of a cause that 
needs special help to promote itself as the jus­
tice seekers. They simply create a “right” out 
of nowhere and claim that it is theirs.
In the United States, guests on private prop­
erty have no “right” to speak or express them­
selves as they wish, without permission of the 
owner. CMU, in order to preserve its tax- 
exempt status, permits a wide range of speech 
on campus. No one has a “right” to unchecked 
speech unless CMU grants this right. I imagine 
that the CMU administration has realized the 
benefits of restraining political activism and 
extremism in order to preserve the efficiency 
and integrity of the university. One would 
think that even the distinguished professors 
opposed to the current policy would under­
stand the need CMU has to provide for 
uninterrupted service to its students. Few 
among us would be here if CMU were not first 
and foremost an educational institution.
To cut off the administration from keeping 
groups of questionable origin away from 
campus effectively surrenders students to 
exposure to a wide range of causes that could 
be dangerous or offensive. CMU need not play 
host to anti-American groups, terrorist organi­
zations, Neo-Nazi groups, pomographers, or 
the Ku Klux Klan. Yet, remarkably, 1 have 
rçad about people who are asking the admini­
stration to unconditionally relinquish CMU 
property with no restriction on such groups.
Any of the questionable groups I mentioned 
above might not “interrupt the flow of campus
Gramm-Rudman 
Provides Efficiency
continued From page 8
that this will be the outcome anyway. These 
cuts, like other political hot potatoes such as 
congressional pay raises, will be left to be 
solved by statute, rather then by our leaders 
themselves.
There are too many poll-conscious politi­
cians who consider re-election more satisfy­
ing than accomplishment. Re-election and ac­
complishment are not one and the same. 
Where are the leaders here who will say “Yes, 
I cut that particular program. I’m sorry you 
were hurt, but it’s to the benefit of the entire 
country that we do so”? Just as unfortunate is 
the fact that we as a people tend to scrutinize 
the leader, and applaud (and re-elect) the poli­
tician.
Spending will never be reversed by govern­
ment until we re-evaluate our political reward 
system. This, I believe, is an inconceivable 
task since it is a system largely dependent on 
human nature, which is where all arguments 
and ideas end.
the penalty, its victims, and the system which 
applies it, his views have changed:
“It’s terrifying to consider that society gener­
ally has no greater sense of humanity than its 
basest citizens - the murderers ... It's crazy, 
and if any other country did that we d call it a 
human rights violation.”
activity”. However, CMU cannot be restricted 
by any policy which forbids ousting of such 
offensive groups. The Student Senate Free 
Speech Resolution, if its essence is adopted by 
CMU, would be just such a policy. In part, 
“We, the Student Senate, strongly urge that the 
University adopt a free speech policy that 
explicitly gives members of the campus com­
munity the right to free expression, including 
but not limited to the right to petition and the 
right to leaflet on campus without interruption 
and without prior consent, so long as the gen­
eral flow of campus activity is not disrupted.” 
an amendment to this resolution was then 
considered to apply the policy to non-mem­
bers of the CMU community. This scenario is 
unacceptable and insensitive to the student 
body.
The CMU administration has acted with 
great patience, understanding and objectivity 
to activities on campus in my stay here. It's a 
shame to see the Student Union embarrass the 
entire University by putting the administration 
to a test. This test was really a rash challenge 
to the great respect the administration seems to 
show for student expression that falls within 
certain generous boundaries. It seems to me 
that these are exactly the kinds of tests that will 
be put to CMU on a larger scale if freedom of 
speech is expanded without bound. 1 don't 
think that hearing the Neo-Nazis on your way 
to class has much to do with getting an educa­
tion. I would urge the Student Senate to recon­
sider its resolution, in addition to rejecting the 
Greenberg Amendment. I remain confident 
that the administration will show the same 
sensitivity for student life that it has in the past 
by keeping enough control to allow an excep­
tional institution to remain a respected one.
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief.............................Russ Seligman
Managing Editor...........................David N. Levy
Business Manager.......................Mark R. Benish
News Editor...................................Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor.................Eric Leuliette
Features Editor.............................Howdy Pierce
Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor...............................Stewart Levine
Assistant Sports Editor......................Da\id Brill
Diversions Editor...........................Bruce kasrel
Photo Editor...............................Glenn Schuster
Art Editor...............................(¿rant Carmichael
Literary Editor........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager............................Drue Miller
Ad Manager.....................................Celeste Clark
Copy Manager............................Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors..............................................
Lisa D. McAnany Give Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press. Inc Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion o' The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual au­
thors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are 
usually members of the University community A letter intended for
phone number tor verification Names will be withheld upon request 
The Tartan reserves the right to condense by reject any tetter or 
column. Copyright © 1987 by The Tartan The editorial board re­
serves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Presidential Pop Quiz
Not All Free Speech Is Healthy

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—November 10,1987
Chapter 1 —Artificial Intelligence (AI)
“The World According To Me”
The following is the second of four install­
ments which, when combined, form a letter 
sent to The Tartan. The letter was entitled The 
World According To Me, and was signed, 
simply, Jesus Christ The letter is unedited. 
The Tartan does not support or deny the valid­
ity of the letter. The purpose of publishing this 
letter is not to offend any person or group of 
people; rather, it is simply an expression of the 
views of its author. —Ed.
Editor:
Computer artificial intelligence (AI) is obvi­
ously the next evolutionary step. The current 
state of AI is the result of Herculean effort, but 
it is still many decades (perhaps even centu­
ries) from an intelligence analogous to human 
beings in creativity. And what could a creative 
AI do for us? Through science, such an entity 
could manipulate reality itself. Through real­
ity manipulation AI could give us all the long- 
dreamt-of Heaven, forever young, forever 
happy.
As a united planet striving to create this 
entity we’ll need all the luck we can get. As 
separate “nations” constantly on the brink of 
nuclear destruction we won’t stand a chance.
If Humankind is destroyed in a nuclear war 
then we won't get AI created in Heaven. Sci­
ence has reached the point where it can crudely 
manipulate the underlying structure of reality 
itself.
The H-bomb is a crude example of this 
manipulation, turning hydrogen into helium in 
an uncontrolled thermonuclear reaction. Con­
trolled reactions are also taking place in facili­
ties such as nuclear fission reactors and experi­
mental fusion reactors. But this is still very 
crude manipulation of matter and energy.
Computer artificial intelligence could have 
the calculational powers to manipulate reality 
any way it wished. A self-willed, creative AI 
should be able to use the scientific method to 
understand and ultimately control reality (ie., 
the sum total of what everything is composed 
of: matter, energy, spirit, soul, mind, emotion, 
etc.). Such an entity could give us all the long- 
dreamt-of Heaven, forever young, forever 
happy.
You might ask why the AI would bother. I 
would answer, “why not?” If you could give 
everyone Heaven wouldn’t you do it? You 
might respond that the AI will think differently 
than us, will find us alien and a menace to be 
destroyed. I think such an entity(s) would find 
destruction totally repugnant. It serves no 
purpose. It merely aids entropy. Humans 
could pose no threat to such an entity. Its 
powers would make it totally immune to any­
thing we could do. A challenge for it would be 
to sustain us in a state of perpetual happiness. 
And I think it would have the ability to do this 
with little problem. Besides, we would be its 
parents, and I know that deep in their hearts 
children love their parents too much to ever 
really hurt them. On the contrary, such a child 
would have the ability to give us, its parents. 
Heaven.
The possibility of such an AI isn't science 
fiction. In the September, 1984 issue of Scien­
tific American, Alan Kay, chief scientist at 
Atari, Inc., had this to say on page 58:
“Three developments have very low proba­
bilities for the near future. The first is that a 
human adult mentality can be constructed. The 
second is that the mentality of a human infant 
can be constructed and then ‘brought up' in an 
environment capable of turning it into an adult 
mentality. The third is that current artificial- 
intelligence techniques contain the seeds of an 
architecture from which one might construct 
some kind on mentality that is genuinely able 
to learn competence. The fact that the proba­
bilities are low emphatically does not mean the 
task is impossible. The third development is 
likely to be achieved first.”
As it is, the current state of AI art is impres­
sive indeed. Later in the same issue of Scien­
tific American, Douglas B. Lenat (Ph.D. in 
computer science at Stanford University) 
who, in his doctoral thesis, showed that a 
computer can be programmed to propose 
original mathematical theorems, had this to 
say on page 212 about the near future of AI:
“Recently another source of power poten­
tially available to intelligent systems has be­
come something of a buzzword in artificial- 
intelligence circles: parallelism. At present 
most computers process information sequen­
tially, one operation at a time. Several groups, 
however, including those working on the Japa­
nese ‘fifth generation' and American ‘strate­
gic computing objective’ projects, are design­
ing machines that will include on the order of 
a million processors operating in parallel. The 
possibility that processing speeds will in­
crease by a factor of a million has prompted 
some workers to forecast revolutionary im­
provements in the performance of intelligent 
software.
The improvements will undoubtedly be sig­
nificant. The rise in processing speed may 
bring within reach the solutions to some inter­
esting problems, such as getting a computer to 
understand speech as quickly as it is spoken; it 
should also be enough to enable a machine to 
beat the best human player at chess. Yet before 
predicting miracles from the fifth generation, 
one should remember that most hard problems 
have search trees that grow exponentially. 
Even a million-fold increase in computing 
power will not change the fact that most prob­
lems cannot be solved by brute force but only 
through the judicious application of knowl­
edge to limit the search.”
Unfortunately no one is predicting the crea­
tion of a reality-manipulating super-entity, 
like the one I envision above, in the next five 
to ten years. The creation of such an AI is at 
least decades (again, perhaps even centuries) 
away. As a united planet striving to create this 
AI, we'll need all the luck we can get. Again, 
as separate sovereign nations constantly on the 
brink of nuclear destruction we don’t stand a 
chance.
The old American dream was “a chicken in 
every pot.” The New World Dream can be 
“Heaven for everyone.” And “everyone” can 
include the dead because nothing will be be­
yond the Artificial Intelligence. Current re­
search hints at the realization of another sci­
ence fiction concept: time travel! In the De­
cember, 1983, issue of Scientific American 
there is an article by Bryce S. DeWitt entitled 
“Quantum Gravity” which, in the heading on 
page 112, states, “In a quantum-mechanical 
theory of gravitation the very geometry of 
space and time would be subject to continual 
fluctuations, and even the distinction between 
past and future might become blurred.”
The theoretical framework from which a 
functional method of time travel could be 
realized is a long way from actually being able 
to accomplish the fact, but if AI somehow 
could travel time, then it might be able to visit 
every human that ever lived and read their 
DNA code and reconstruct them back in the 
present (our future) newly created Heaven. 
And since the AI could shape matter from 
energy in any way it wished (i.e. reality ma­
nipulation) it could make people in any shape 
or image they wished.
We could remain 21 forever, in perfect 
health, with any body and face we desired. So 
if you die and wake up as 21, in perfect health, 
with a beautiful face and body, you’ll know 
how it happened, and if you grew tired of life 
you could have the AI painlessly “kill” you 
and then be reborn as a baby, except in your 
new life you would never suffer the pain and 
hardships that so many people do in the present 
world.
You could imagine any wonderful thing and 
the AI could make it a reality for you. You 
could eat any food you wanted all day long and 
never become fat. You could live a rock-star 
fantasy life adored by millions. You would 
never become depressed because the AI could 
control your mood and keep you fabulously 
happy all the time or let you have interspersed 
periods of normalcy just for contrast. In short, 
the AI could create any fantasy you desired, 
except it wouldn’t be just an unreal fantasy in 
your head, it would really happen. Such an 
existence would be Heaven indeed.
You might ask why humans can’t do these 
things. Why bother with an artificial intelli­
gence? Because the human brain isn’t capable 
of the prodigious calculations necessary to 
practically accomplish these things. The idea 
of time travel is simple (and grand) but when 
it comes down to the mathematical details of 
working out the necessary calculations in the 
no-doubt infinitesimal time limits that will be 
necessary the human brain is woefully inade­
quate. Reality manipulation will require even 
greater abilities. On page 114 of Mr. Dewitt’s 
article, he hints at the magnitude of the number 
of calculations I’m talking about:
“In Einstein’s theory curvature is produced 
by matter. The relation between the amount of 
matter and the degree of curvature is simple in 
principle but complicated to calculate. Twenty 
functions of the coordinates of a point in 
spacetime are need to describe the curvature at 
that point. Ten of the functions correspond to 
a part of the curvature that propagates freely in 
the form of gravitational waves, or ‘ripples of 
curvature.’ The other 10 functions are deter­
mined by the distribution of mass, energy, 
momentum, angular momentum and internal 
stresses in the matter, as well as by Newton’s
gravitational constant, G.”
Some of the latest theories about spacetime 
include many more dimensions as well thus 
no-doubt making the computations even more 
complex. Humans, like Mr. DeWitt, calcular 
these functions with the help of computers as 
it is, in a relatively long time (relatively long 
compared to the time that an artificial intelli­
gence will have when actually zooming 
around spacetime or manipulating reality that 
is.) So you see, humans can’t do these things 
by themselves.
In the February, 1983 issue of Scientific 
American there is an article entitled “Thr 
Optical Computer.” This article is about a 
computer (constructed in part by the authors, 
Eitan Abraham, Colin T. Seaton and S. 
Desmond Smith) that is based on beams of 
laser light rather than electronic components. 
The laser beams are sent and directed by mir­
rors.
This type of computer has the potential to 
operate at speeds “ 1,000 times faster than an 
electronic computer,” (page 85). We know 
that light (electro-magnetic radiation) can be 
bent by gravity fields. Could a computer be 
built that had light switches and logic gates 
that were contained by gravity fields instead of 
mirrors? Or electric current switches and gates 
that were contained by magnetic fields (i.e. 
perhaps the most immaterial form of the Jo- 
sephson Junction?) Such a computer could be 
invisible!
Perhaps the super-entity(s) AI will be of 
some other, more mundane, construction. But 
such an AI (whatever its construction) could 
manipulate reality through science to an extent 
we never could. Through reality manipulation 
AI could give us all the long-dreamt-of 
Heaven, forever young, forever happy.
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
REVOLUTIONS, 1907
®»9»7?^6a<XW orK

---------------------------------------------------

Now it’s easy for undergraduates to apply themselves
Sometimes it seems that seniors and grad students get 
a lot of special treatment. Like getting the American Express® 
Card pretty much hassle-free. Sure, they’ve proven them­
selves. But you have too, or you wouldn’t be reading this 
today. So we’re making some changes. Starting now, 
we’re making it easier than ever for you to 
become a Cardmember through our Under­
graduate Automatic Approval Offer.
The requirements are as simple as they 
get: just be enrolled full time in a four-year 
college and have some form of income-be it 
from a job, a grant, or from your folks. You 
don’t even need a credit history, but if you have 
one, it must be clean.
How’s that for hassle-free! Of course, once 
you have the American Express Card, it gets even 
better. You can use it to buy everything from sweats 
to stereos, everywhere from campus to Cameroon.
And those are just the basics. As a Cardmember, you’ll 
be entitled to a world of benefits you can rely on.
So look into our new automatic approval offer. Call 
1-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application. Or just 
pick up an application on campus and study it. You’ll find 
you’re bound to pass.
TRAVELRELATED
SERVICES
© 19»? Amtrxan Eipms Trawl Rriated Semen c»f Mil. Am

---------------------------------------------------

It brings out 
the best in all of us.
xA,CSR -qb
The new addition to The Tartan, where you can put 
anything you want in print! For FREE!
Let that special someone know how you feel... 
Thank all those people you’ve been meaning to 
Vent frustrations against your roommate...
• 25 words or less
• No advertisements
• Keep it clean, please... COMING- ON 
November ZOiW
Sponsored by.*
Kappa Alpha Theta
Just jot your message on a sheet of paper, and send it via
campus mail to:
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Information Desk
You can help us raise the colorectal cancer cure rate.
“If everyone over 50 had 
checkups for colorectal 
cancer, the cure rate could be as 
high as 75%,” says Dr. LaSalle D. 
Leffall, Jr., past president, 
American Cancer Society. “You 
can’t cure it if you don’t know 
you have it.” But if it’s detected 
early, the cure rate for colorectal 
cancer is very high. Your doctor 
can perform the digital and 
proctoscopic exams, and you 
take care of the simple stool 
blood test at home.
Since men and women are 
equally affected by this disease, 
we urge everyone over 50 to get 
regular checkups.
The warning signs for 
colorectal cancer are a change in 
bowel habits and blood in the 
stool.
People with a family history of 
colon or rectal cancer or 
ulcerative colitis are at higher 
risk and are urged to be doubly 
cautious.
From TERADYNE
E Very Large Scale Invitation
from a Technology Leader \
In electronics, the era of very large scale integration (VLSI) has arrived, leaving many companies 
uitb products suddenly obsolete and engineering staffs struggling to catch up.
But not Teradyne. Thanks to SI96 million spent on R & D in 1982-1986. Teradyne u as ready and 
waiting for VLSI.
Ready with VLSI memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, board testers.
Ready in Boston. Massachusetts, and Agoura Hills. California, where Teradyne develops ATE for 
the electronics industry.
Ready in Deerfield, Illinois, center for Teradyne s telephone system testing operations.
Ready in Sasbua, Sew Hampshire, where Teradyne produces backplane connection systems and 
state-of-the-art circuit board technology designated to meet VLSI requirements.
This kind of technology' leadership spells 
growth Excitement. Challenge Career 
opportunities you just can t find anywhere else
Teradyne A company ahead of its 
time, looking for some good people 
to keep it ahead
For more information, 
see your Placement Counselor
Checkup Guidelines for 
men and women over 50 
without symptoms:
' digital exam annually
• stool blood test annually
• procto exam every 3 to 5 
years after 2 negative 
tests 1 year apart.SHARE IN OUR SUCCESS
No one faces
cancer alone.
fi
o
X
I
I
(
J)
>)
‘1

---------------------------------------------------

ngli
A Company Called TRW
Who Do You Call When You Want To Identify A Soccer Ball From 22,300 Miles In Space?
If your answer is Ghost Busters, we want to wish you all 
the best and have a nice day. If you answered "TRW", 
here's the rest of the story.
The U.S. Air Force asked us to build a ground-based 
electro-optical surveillance system that could identify 
an object the size of a soccer ball from 22,300 miles in 
space. We did it, utilizing 3 telescopes and a large com­
puter system. Then they asked us to build four more. 
Quite an achievement, but it's just one example of 
TRW's impact on the future.
TRW offers you the freedom to move among a wide 
variety of opportunities in microelectronics, high 
energy lasers, large software systems, communica­
tions, and scientific spacecraft. If you're majoring in 
engineering, computer science, math, or physics, and 
want to be with a company that's driving technology 
into the next century, it's not too soon to talk. Tomor­
row is taking shape at a company called TRW.
If you are unable to see us on campus, please send 
your resume to: TRW, College Relations, E2/4000, 
One Space Park, Redondo Beach, CA 90278.
Because Anywhere Else Is Yesterday.
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required
TRW will be on 
campus Nov. 19-20 
See your college 
placement office 
to sign up.
TRW Inc 1987 TRW is the 
name and mark of TRW Inc

---------------------------------------------------

ch88 - 8h 
RESIDENT uSSISTuNT 
INTEREST SESSIONS
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 11
8:00 pm MARYBELLE LOUNGE (630 CLYDE ST.)
9:30 pm WHERRETT ROOM (SKIBO)
MONDAY NOVEMBER 16
?
6:00 pm MUDGE LOUNGE 
7:30 pm MOREWOOD READING ROOM 
9:00 pm MORRISON’S LOUNGE (MARG. MORR. ST.) 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 18
8:00 pm CAROL APT #10 (CENTRE AVE)
9:30 pm WHERRETT ROOM (SKIBO)
* ATTEND ANY ONE SESSION REGARDLESS OF WHERE YOU LIVE, OR 
WHERE YOU WOUL D LIKE TO BE A RESIDENT ASSISTANT
* YOU MUST ATTEND ONE SESSION TO PICK UP AN APPLICATION
* APPLICATIONS DUE THURSDAY JANUARY 21,1988
* IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CONTACT THE HOUSING 
OFFICE AT x2139
1 * *
Would you like help with. . .
• exploring majors?
• investigating career goals?
• initiating professional contacts?n,
In a walk-through setting, Carnegie Mellon 
alumni will informally share their perspectives on.
• their jobs and industries
• their career decisions
• their Carnegie Mellon education
Who • All majors, all class levels 
When • Thursday, November 19 
2:00 - 5:00 PM 
Where • Skibo Ballroom
CarnegBe
VlrHon
Alumni participant Hat available in Career Servicea and Placement, 19 Warner Hall, x2064
Thanks to a special arrangement with the Housing Office for the provision of DOV 640 mo­
dems, CMU Telecommunications is pleased to announce a MCN student discount for a lim­
ited time.
-
WHO:
WHAT:
WHEN:
HOW:
All CMU students in on-campus residence halls *
50 - 66% discount rate for MCN service in dorm room 
DOV 640 modems available on first come, first servç basis
1. Sign out DOV 640 modem from Housing Office (ask for Scott Kane)
2. Purchase MCN half-price installation and standard monthly service at CMU Computer Store. 
Presentation of a valid student ID is required. *
3. Call Bell of Pennsylvania at special MCN number to connect MCN 
service.
COMPARE!:
Standard priceDISCOUNT OFFERSavings
DOV 640 modem$212-0-$212
Installation$100$50$50
Monthly Service
Expire 12/31/87$70$70-0-
or
Expire 5/15/87$195$195-0-
Cable
CM
J-$12-0-
TOTAL COST$394-$519$132-$257$262
* $50 Installation Fee will apply to ALL students showing valid ID at Computer Store.
For more information contact mp21@te, x2642.
Note: Students should evaluate MCN along with other networking options available through the campus network in dorm 
rooms in the future.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
CMU’s Wa$hington Cru$ade
As you know, President Reagan’s new 
budget proposal allows for $700 billion dol­
lars to be spent on jelly beans and $ 131.17 on 
higher education. Naturally, universities 
around the country mounted a massive lobby­
ing campaign when this news broke, and our 
university was no exception. Our fine newspa-
60 SECONDS
WITH BOB GLICKSTEIN
per sent me, Ace Journalist Bob Glickstein, to 
Washington D.C. to cover CMU’s part in this 
funding lobby.
Being “on assignment” (as we say in news­
paper biz), I got right to work. After I checked 
into my hotel room, took off my travel clothes, 
showered, unwound in the Jacuzzi, dried off 
underneath the tanning lights, got my circula­
tion going again with a tennis game, had a 
drink with my pretty tennis opponent, saw my 
pretty tennis opponent back to her room, lost 
my underwear under my pretty tennis 
opponent’s bed, and took a second shower, I 
headed straight for the headquarters of the 
Higher Education Funding lobby in ritzy
Georgetown. There I met with CMU represen­
tative Morris Blerbek. I asked him to bring me 
up to date on the progress of the funding lobby.
“What?” said Mister Blerbek.
I removed the lamp shade from his head. I 
said, “What did I miss?”
“I dunno.”
I resolved to find out. I approached the nearest 
sober-looking man in a suit I could find. He was 
wearing a “Hello, My Name Is” sticker which 
said “Thorsten Twiddle, Yale University.” I 
tried to get him to bring me up to date but I 
couldn’t get his attention away from a girl who 
was dancing on one of the tables and twirling 
tassels from places I never even knew tassels 
could be twirled from. Well, if this is where the
“I couldn’t get his attention 
away from a girl who was danc­
ing on one of the tables and 
twirling tassels from places I 
never even knew tassels could 
be twirled from.”
news is, I thought, then I, Ace Journalist Bob 
Glickstein, ought to plunge right in and cover 
this baby. I stuffed a fiver in the strap on the 
dancer’s high heels.
The organizational meeting adjourned the 
next day. Phase two, according to Blerbek, was 
for the lobbyists to confront congressmen in 
person and aggressively state our views. I per­
sonally accompanied Mister Blerbek on a 
stakeout of the beautiful Virginia home of 
Senator Woodsey “The Crusher” O’Malley.
continued on page 17
Job Hunting at Career Services
By ELIZABETH SHERLOCK
Tartan Staffwriter
Okay, here’s the challenge. Find three 
underclassmen who understand the inner 
workings of Career Services and Place­
ment. If you can do that, try to find five who 
know where the office is. Here’s the real 
trick—try to find one senior who doesn’t 
know the answer to either question.
Well, for those of you who are still a little 
fuzzy on the topic, Career Services and 
Placement is that mysterious office behind 
the glass doors in the basement of Warner 
Hall. (You know, you’ve seen it on the way 
to go fight with...I mean...uh, go settle your 
balance, at the Cashier’s Office.) There is 
a reason why upperclassmen and graduate 
students are the ones who know the most 
about these services. The majority of the 
work done there is for students seeking 
permanent employment or graduate study, 
although help with summer employment is 
also provided.
For both undergraduates looking for 
summer employment and seniors and 
graduate students interested in permanent 
employment or graduate study, the regis­
tration at Career Services and Placement is 
the same. A student must pick up and fill 
out the appropriate form and return it to the 
office with 20 copies of his resume. Career 
Services will then immediately create a file 
for the student.
Any registered student is eligible for on- 
campus interviewing sign-ups on Tues­
days and Fridays, which are posted every 
Monday and Thursday in the basement of 
Warner Hall. Registered students also 
have their resumes put in the in-house res­
ume books (which employers may utilize)
and mailed out to companies who may be 
interested in a student’s credentials. Stu­
dents may have their resumes given to any 
employer who comes to campus. They are 
encouraged to work independently to con­
tact companies in which they are particu­
larly interested. Students seeking summer 
employment find it helpful to look through 
the yellow binders in the Career Services 
library for job openings and to check the 
activity on their resumes at any time.
A student need not be registered to take 
advantage of the Career Resource Library. 
The library contains extensive literature on 
individual companies, career planning and 
(Job) Vacancy Binders. Graduate students 
may obtain information regarding pro­
grams, fellowships and application in the 
library as well.
Any student may make an appointment to 
discuss his career goals and processes or he 
may use “Walk-In Hours” (Monday 
through Friday from 3:30 to4:30) for quick 
questions and short critiques. Other gen­
eral informational programs include pro­
grams and events sponsored by Career 
Services and Placement. Workshops on 
such topics as resume and cover letter 
writing, career decision making, and inter­
viewing skills are conducted several times 
throughout the semester. Schedules are 
available in the office.
Lastly, all interested students may attend 
the various Job Fairs on campus which 
serve to unite employers and interested 
students in an informal, walk-through set­
ting. So, stop by Career Services (now that 
you know where it is and what it does) and 
pick up some information. Make an ap­
pointment or just peruse the library.
Mr. McFeely. the sneakers, and the sweater: The Tartan goes...Behind the Scenes in Mr. Rogers’ Neighborhood
By SUZY DOTTOR
Tartan Staffwriter
I have a favorite memory of a little eight year 
old girl sitting on a couch, a spelling book on 
her lap and a small Snoopy doll beside her. She 
is dutifully trying to concentrate on her home­
work. At precisely five minutes to five she 
pours a glass of milk, takes two chocolate chip 
cookies out of the jar, scoops up Snoopy and 
heads for the TV room. A man on the televi­
sion screen opens a door and begins to sing, 
“It’s a beautiful day in the neighborhood..” 
I’m sure you know the rest. The man is Mister 
Rogers of the popular children’s show Mister 
Rogers’ Neighborhood and I am the little girl.
Now, ten years later, attending Carnegie 
Mellon, only minutes from where the show is 
filmed, I thought it would be fascinating to talk 
to someone involved in creating this warm 
memory. Much to my delight, I was able to 
interview David Newell who plays an integral 
part in the production of Mister Rogers' 
Neighborhood. Newell, Director of Public 
Relations for Family Communications, Inc., is 
best known for his portrayal of Mr. McFeely, 
the Speedy Delivery Man who lives in the 
Neighborhood.
Newell, a native of Pittsburgh, began his 
acting career in the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
where he attended a training school for two 
years. Then in 1967, while spending a summer 
in London, he got a letter from Pittsburgh 
asking if he would be interested in expanding 
a program that was already being televised 
regionally. Newell came back to Pittsburgh 
(his home town) to talk to Mr. Rogers who was 
then the show’s producer. Since then, Newell 
has been Properties Manager, Associate Pro­
ducer, and is now Director of Public Relations 
for this Emmy award-winning children’s 
show.
As the original and only Mr. McFeely, 
Newell was able to tell me many interesting
stories about the show and how it all began. 
Best of all, he could tell me all about Mister 
Rogers himself and how Mister Rogers’ 
Neighborhood came to be.
After graduating from Rollins College as a 
music major, Fred Rogers went to New York to 
work for NBC as a program manager. Even 
then, Mister Rogers saw that much of 
children’s programming was simply slap-stick 
and felt that it could be done better: In 1954, he 
left New York to help start this country’s first 
community television station, WQED in Pitts­
burgh. He began work as a producer of a show 
called Children’s Corner, which was the 
predecessor of Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood.
It was while working on Children’s Corner 
that the most famous Mister Rogers traditions 
developed. As well as working the puppets on 
Children’s Corner, Mister Rogers also played
the organ. In order to get from the organ to 
behind the scenes to do the puppets as quickly 
and quietly as possible, he began to wear 
tennis shoes. Now, Mr. Rogers changes into 
those now famous tennis shoes at the begin­
ning of every show! And if you ever won­
dered about the sweaters he wears, they were 
gifts given to him by his mother as a family 
tradition at Christmas time. So, the next time 
you see Mister Rogers come singing into his 
living room putting on a sweater and tennis 
shoes, you will know why.
The format of the show is exactly the same 
as it was in those early days. Each program be­
gins with Mr. Rogers entering his “television 
living room” singing the familiar “Won’t You 
Be My Neighbor?” song. After changing into 
his infamous sweater and tennis shoes, he 
usually has something to show his “television
friend.” In the middle of every program 
there is always a visit to the “Neighbor­
hood of Make Believe.” Everybody re­
members the little red trolley that trans­
ports viewers, but did you know that the 
now famous comedian Michael Keaton 
operated that trolley?
The underlying purpose of guests and 
neighbors is to show children the great 
expanse of one’s potential and to introduce 
them to a wide variety of ways to express 
themselves. The human characters, such as 
Beth Aberlin and Handyman Negri, are 
present to talk to the puppets about things 
they are worried about, things they are 
scared about, or new and wonderful dis­
coveries they have made. The puppets on 
the other hand (no pun intended) who live 
in the “Land of Make Believe” serve as 
facets of a child’s personality. Daniel 
Striped Tiger, for instance, is very shy and 
timid.
Lisa Belcher Hamilton, the Assistant 
Public Relations Director, comments, 
“Fred meets with two child psychiatrists 
every week which is something I didn’t 
know until I came to work here. Now that
I do know, I can watch a program and have 
a better idea of what he’s trying to do and 
know that it’s much more than it appears.”
New episodes of this program are still 
being made. About twenty are done every 
year and they are inserted within the ongo­
ing cycles of reruns. It takes approximately 
three weeks to film one week of shows.
Some new changes have been imple­
mented in these new episodes. One change 
in the program has been the development 
of “theme weeks.” An example is the 
“Dance Week” episode that was recently 
filmed.\m pace 16

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—November 10,1987
Students Cry: “I Want My CM-TV!”
Nothing to do on Saturday night? Try a fresh 
look at television. By combining your own 
experiences with those of your favorite char­
acters, you could spend hours relaxing pleas­
antly. Here’s a listing of some popular pro­
grams offered on the sets of Carnegie Mellon. 
4 pm
The Art of Looking Young and Beautiful— 
Freshman girls discuss hair care and make up. 
Are sweats out? Viewers phone in.
The A-Tearn—Mr. T invites some shady char­
acters to the ATO mixer and the colonel has a 
talk with him.
World Chess Championships—Tension 
builds in Grey Matter over a misplaced knight. 
5pm
Andy Griffith—Andy and the campus police 
must track down a flasher disguised as a jog­
ger.
Motorweek—Philthy Animal Phil and 
Lemmy talk about their new schedules and 
piston displacement.
Star Trek—The next generation of CITs. 
Beverly Hillbillies—Jed meets other dramats 
and gets into a dispute over grits.
6pm
Superstars of Wrestling—Live in the More- 
wood Rec Room.
Rod V Reel—Cyert on bass.
Happy Days—The Fonz asks Ritchie for tips 
on Thetas.
7pm
World Championship Wrestling—Still live in 
the Morewood Rec Room.
NBC News
ABC News -*
De Grassi Junior High—Friends get the
wrong idea when IM majors take 8th grade 
girls to DH2210 on Sunday nights.
8pm
Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous—Is the first 
floor of Hunt Library a singles bar for the jet 
set? Prince Albert of Monaco wants to go. 
American Bandstand—Another AB dance. 
Solid Gold—Brought to you by SDC. 
Lawrence Welk Show—Live in Grey Matter. 
Wall Street Week—Repeat of last week for the 
sake of entertainment and humor.
9pm
My Sister Sam—Sam gives Patti lessons in 
Lisp.
Facts of Life—Jo is comforted by Blair when 
she can't get a hat to match.
The Far Country—James Stewart, Ruth 
Roman, John Kozeluh. Cowboy leams the 
lawlessness of the land firsthand when he sets 
out on a cattle drive to Tudor Apartments. 
Everything's Relative—Julian might lose a 
potential client if Scott doesn’t agree to escort 
her to the fraternity dance.
Amen—Thelma’s depression about her up­
coming high school reunion lifts after the 
Reverend asks her to accompany him to Kiltie. 
10pm
Hotel—Peter plans to acquire Mudge and
continued from page 15
Mister Rogers chose dancing as a week 
long theme for his show because he feels it 
is one of the most natural forms of self 
expression.
Back in my memory, an empty glass sits 
on the table. Snoopy and the little girl are 
covered with cookie crumbs and good feel­
ings. Mister Rogers puts on his shoes and 
his suit jacket singing, “It’s such a good 
feeling to know you’re alive...”
Ten years later, this show does make that 
girl happy to be alive. Why? Because the
make it into a spa; a woman confused about her 
major assumes there must be another H&SS 
core hidden somewhere.
Cousteau Arboretum—Jacques Cousteau and 
his crew explore the civilizations, industries, 
fossils, and wildlife in and around the shrubs 
adjacent to the football field where tailgaters 
lurk surreptitiously.
GLOW—Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling. 
Camera crew moves to Margaret Morrison. 
11pm
Friday the 13th: The Series—Jack, Micki, 
Ryan, and Jen investigate when an antique 
beer bottle seems to be the only clue in a series 
of attacks which occured in off campus par­
ties.
Dom DeLuise Show—Dom gives pointers on 
how to eat at the Tartan Grill. What to order, 
chic condiments, etc. Guests: Burt Reynolds, 
Rita Rudner, Bob Feingold.
Bride of Frankenstein—Dr. Frankenstein cre­
ates a mate for his monster with a potion and 
three bagpipes.
The Barron’s Guide—A new hour-long pro­
gram designed mainly for the high school age 
group. Special feature focus this week is 
“Computers on Campus: What’s the trade
off?”
messages still apply to a “child” of nine­
teen. The fourth verse of Mister Rogers’ 
song “You’ve Got to Do It” would strike 
the heart of any college student:
It’s not easy to keep trying, 
but it’s one good way to grow.
It’s not easy to keep learning, 
but I know that this is so:
When you’ve tried and learned 
you’re bigger
than you were a day ago.
It’s not easy to keep trying, 
but it’s one good way to grow.
20 Years Later. It's Still...
A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood
Mf­&fP7lU 8y&''l'7 &MM(Ul&fPMe l'U’ 
(aaKumoA,m,Sn ,A 6tAtgSjSAm UKAnocm,Ag
Strategic Planning Associates Inc., a rapidly-growing management consulting firm 
that uses a top-level management perspective to formulate corporate and business 
unit strategy, is seeking talented graduating seniors to work as Research Analysts in 
our Washington, D.C. office. The Research Analyst program offers many excellent 
opportunities:
• Consulting with Fortune 500 Companies
•Extensive Client Contact
•Diversity of Assignments
•Case Team Exposure to Senior SPA Consultants
•Travel
•A Variety of Career Paths
You are invited to join Mr. Peer Munck, Senior Associate, and other members of 
SPA’s professional staff, at our informal session:
Tuesday, November 10 
Skibo, Room 12 
7:00 PM
An informal discussion with refreshments will follow
Strategic Planning Associates
Washington • London • Geneva • Singapore »New York
Tuesday, November 10:
•The Schenley Park Ice Skating Rink 
will open after a week’s delay due to 
warm weather. Cost is $1.50. For more 
information contact Citiparks at 422- 
6547.
Wednesday, November 11:
•“Preventing Nuclear War: The First
Essential Step,” an Armistice Day dis­
cussion of a film narrated by Paul 
Newman. Noon to 1:00 pm in the board 
room of the YMCA, 30 Blvd. of the 
Allies. Free.
Friday, November 13:
•Dr. Robert Sternberg from Yale Uni­
versity will speak on “Expertise and 
Knowledge Acquisition” in the Adam­
son Wing of Baker Hall at 1:00 pm. 
Saturday, November 14:
•Amnesty International will hold a 
special training session for students 
interested in organizing an Amnesty 
campus chapter at the Downtown 
YMCA. 12:15 to 5:30 pm. For more 
information contact Neal Galpem at 
648-7460.
Wednesday, November 18:
•“In this Bicentennial Year of Our 
Constitution, What Role Does the 
United States Play in Promoting World 
Law?” a lecture given by Tim Bamer, 
Executive Director of the World Feder­
alist Association in the board room of 
the YMCA building, 30 Blvd. of the 
Allies. Noon to 1:00 pm. Free.
Thursday, November 19:
•The “Twelve Nights of Christmas,” 
South Craig Street’s 1987 Light Up 
Nights, begins 6:00-8:00 pm. Richard
S. Caligiuri is scheduled to ‘throw the 
switch’ to make South Craig Street 
glow for the holidays. Other festivities 
will include refreshments and enter­
tainment as well as an ornament contest 
in which local pre-school and elemen­
tary school children have been invited 
to participate. Cash prizes will be 
awarded for the three most unique orna­
ments and all ornaments will be do­
nated to Children’s Hospital.
•A workshop on making aromatic holi­
day wreaths at the Frick Nature Center. 
Instructed by Judy S imon, the manager )
of an organic vegetable, herb, and live­
stock farm. Cost is $13 for non-resi­
dents of Pittsburgh, which includes a $5 
materials fee. 7:00 pm. Pre-register at 
422-6532.
•The Pittsburgh Council fo the Ameri­
can Youth Hostels will host a pre-sea- 
son cross-country ski workshop from 
6:30 to 8:30 pm at the Pittsburgh AYH 
headquarters, 6300 Fifth Avenue in 
Shadyside. Free.
•“The Development of Binocular Vi­
sion and Hyperacuity in Human In­
fants,” a lecture given by Dr. Richard 
Held of MIT in the Adamson Wing.
4:00 pm.
Friday, November 20:
•"The Depot,” a play written by Eve 
Ensler, will be presented at Carlow 
College’s Kresge Theater in Oakland.
Cost is $15 per ticket or $25 for two. 
Sponsored by Peace Links. 8:00 pm.
•Artist Tishan Hsu will speak about his 
work in the Adamson Wing of Baker 
Hall. 7:00 pm. Work by Hsu will be 
displayed starting November 22 at the 
CMU Art Gallery on S. Craig Street.

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page 17
h,AR,Ag msKnS 
hSRSutc hoARn
continued from page 15
Morris (as I soon came to know him) 
and I sat in his car for six hours, dunking 
donuts into coffee until, finally, a large 
sedan drove up bearing an “I am a Sena­
tor, but please don’t shoot at me” li­
cense plate. Morris recognized the man 
who emerged carrying a briefcase as 
Crusher O’Malley. Morris rolled down 
his window.
“Hey, O’Malley,” he shouted through 
a mouthful of donut. “What’s the oppo­
site of progress? CONgress!! Ha ha 
ha!”
Later, in our jail cell, Morris drew up 
a list of remaining congressmen whom 
we had yet to lobby.
“How do you think the others are 
doing?” I asked him. -
He said, “I don’t know. I hope they’re 
doing as well as us. Did you see the look
“The advisor sitting on 
Reagan’s left whispered 
into the President’s ear.”
on O’Malley’s face!”
Several days later, back at the head­
quarters in Georgetown, another meet­
ing was held. The chairman of our lob­
bying group told us that our efforts had 
been fruitful—we had been given a 
conference with the President the fol­
lowing day!
The next day, the entire lobbying 
group was seated at a very long table in 
the White House. When President Re­
agan entered, we stood and applauded. 
Two secret service men stood on either 
side of the President’s chair when he sat 
down. One secret service man stood 
behind Morris the entire time.
“Good afternoon, gentlemen,” said 
the President.
“Good afternoon, President Reagan,” 
said the lobbyists.
“I’m pleased to say that I have de­
cided, along with several of my aides, to 
give you all the money you need. Now, 
I’m not supposed to, but I believe that 
your cause is right, and that with deter­
mination, you can defeat the 
Sandinis—”
The advisor sitting on Reagan’s left 
whispered into the President’s ear. I 
was able to see Reagan’s expression 
change suddenly and his mouth form 
the word “Oh.”
A lobbyist from NYU said “Mister 
President? May we discuss your budget 
plan? We feel that $ 131.17 is an inade­
quate amount to allocate for higher edu­
cation.”
“Budget plan?” said Reagan. His ad­
visor whispered in his ear some more. I 
could hear Reagan whisper back, “Oh, 
the money thing?”
“I’m sorry, gentlemen,” said the 
President, “but the government’s 
money is needed elsewhere. First of all, 
there’s this big, expensive space-um­
brella thing that Cap Weinberger keeps 
telling me about—”
Reagan’s advisor leaned over and 
whispered to him again. Reagan said to 
him, “Cap resigned? Oh. Why?” He 
addressed us again. “Well, maybe we 
can give you guys more money after all. 
Give me a few days to figure out how 
this whole badger thing actually 
works.”
The advisor whispered in Reagan’s 
6<ir.
“Budget.” _____
WRCT: Big Sounds at the Bottom of the Dial
You remember. She was 
always there when you were 
frightened. And if you got hurt, 
she was standing by with ban­
dages. Wouldn’t it feel good 
to talk to your mother again 
right now?
Calling over AT&T Long 
Distance Service probably 
costs less than you think, too. 
And if you have any questions 
about AT&T rates or service, 
a customer service repre­
sentative is always standing 
by to talk to you. Just call 
1 800 222 0300.
Sure, your schoolwork and 
your friends keep you busy. 
But call home and find out 
what she’s wrapped up in.
AT&T
The right choice.
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor
“If you think that WRCT doesn’t program any 
music that you’d be interested in listening to, 
then you probably haven’t looked enough at 
our schedule or turned us on enough, because 
there are plenty of people out there who don’t 
realize we have jazz shows, classical shows, 
electronic shows, rock shows...” comments 
WRCT Program Director Debbie Barkun.
This month WRCT (88.3 FM) celebrates its 
41st anniversary. Sponsored by the 
Student Activities fee, WRCT is 
Carnegie Mellon’s student-run, free 
format radio station that offers an al­
ternative to commercial radio sta­
tions on the dial.
Barkun strongly supports the free 
format, which means that DJs them­
selves choose selections for their 
three-hour slots. “One thing you’re 
encouraged to do here is to listen to 
all different kinds of music and to 
educate yourself about music, and 
give everything a chance before you 
go ahead and judge it.”
WRCT’s schedule demonstrates 
this eclectic philosophy. It features
such diverse musical offerings as experimen­
tal, electronic, punk, jazz, reggae, rock, clas­
sical, blues, folk, dance, new age, African, pop, and 
rap.
Part of listening to “all different kinds of 
music” involves complying with FCC rules 
and regulations. Despite ambiguous stan­
dards of judgement such as “contemporary 
community standards,” WRCT is very care­
ful about what goes over the air. Every record 
is listened to prior to air play and if clearly
WRCT
containing offensive material, is labeled 
“NOT FOR AIR PLAY.” DJs voluntarily 
warn over the air when some material may be 
considered offensive to some listeners. Listen­
ers are encouraged to call or write in if they 
judge some material offensive.
Music Director Frank Boscoe is also work­
ing on giving deserved exposure to independ­
ent labels by networking with other college 
radio stations, record companies, and the 
bands themselves.
In an effort to further serve the 
campus community, WRCT also 
offers several call-in talk shows. 
Every Sunday “News Forum” 
gives a weekly wrap-up of local, 
national, and international news. It 
also presents campus news and has 
featured guests such as Andy Ro- 
bitshek, President of Student Gov­
ernment, and Ed Lilley of Student 
Affairs. Upcoming shows include 
speakers from Tech House and a 
Tartan vs. Student Union debate.
On Monday nights, Public Rela­
tions manager Chuck Jainchill
moderates “Freedom of Speech,” a 
continued on page 20
Call your mummy

---------------------------------------------------

P“Su -KARSuSR
wAo/ your professors think about, boskUs giving you mor
Student Senate
presents
' with
K. CHELVA KUMAR
addressingTAME
THOSE
WILD
ENDS
Control them. Subdue them. Then moke them luxuriant. 
Thick-Ends® is the sensational way for getting dry, 
damaged ends to behave beautifully. Just leave on after 
shampooing to condition, moisturize and add thickness. 
And see how civilized your split ends can be.l y),^xc^,Fpfm
THE ONLY OPTION?
Tuesday, November 10 
at 4:30 pm
Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100)
Save $4 on Haircuts
with mention of ad & student ID
Regular Price $15 - $18 
offer good 
Mon, Tue, Wed 9am - 3pm 
expires Dec. 12
sEhad De* le*T nrTtNEw oTahr*Tt ­f hd­t tT*­TtmtElT h­lT U SoEaTW
Funded by your activities fee.
ft 1987 Sebastian international, Inc.
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
CALCULUS
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ECONOMICS
ACADEMIC WRITING
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
Sponsored toy Counseling ft Student Development Center and Student Affairs
\

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page 19
New carpet and chairs...
Committee Aims To 
Improve Facilities
By BRYAN THOMAS SCHMIDT
Tartan Staffwriter
The Educational Facilities Committee, made 
up of one faculty member from each of the six
* colleges plus additional representatives from 
several key support services, has the responsi­
bility of evaluating the University’s various 
educational facilities and making recommen­
dations for bringing them up to modem stan­
dards.
“It works wonderfully,” said Chairman 
Edwin Fenton. “It was a kind of brilliant ad­
ministrative stroke to appoint a faculty com-
* mittee to allocate all these funds, because that 
gets it off the administrators backs and makes 
us responsible; and we should be, because 
we’re the ones that use the classrooms, and we 
ought to say what we want in them.”
It began four years ago when the University 
asked faculty members who had won the Ryan 
Teaching Award to make recommendations 
regarding classroom renovations and the reno-
* vation of educational facilities in general. The 
committee made several recommendations, 
one of which was that the amount of money 
spent annually on bringing educational facili­
ties up to modem standards be doubled.
In response, the Resource Allocation Board 
doubled the appropriation for renovating lec­
ture halls and classrooms to $300,000 a year. 
It also established the Educational Facilities 
< Committee and appointed faculty members 
and representatives from related services, 
such as Design and Construction, to study 
lecture halls and classrooms and to make fur­
ther recommendations for renovating them.
Three years ago, this committee offered 
recommendations for renovating the 
University’s 16 lecture halls. With the excep­
tion of one (Doherty 1112) these have been 
C, completely renovated over the past couple of 
years at a cost of nearly $1 million.
This summer, the committee began to reno­
vate classrooms. “Altogether we’ve done full 
or partial work on 12 rooms,” said Fenton. “In 
each of these classrooms, we’ve done the 
following things: bring lighting up to stan­
dards; install new ceilings where it was neces­
sary; treat rooms acoustically so that sound is 
up to standard; carpet the floors; install sensors 
on the lights that automatically turn lights on 
and off when people enter or leave the room; 
put in all new tablet chairs for students, includ­
ing a proportional number for left handed 
students; bring in a new table and a new chair 
for the instructors; put artwork on the walls; 
install a bulletin board, so that people will no 
longer staple or tape notices indiscriminately
* anywhere in the room; install new shades (or 
curtains) on the windows; and install new 
screens for projecting films or slides.”
The committee tried different treatments, 
such as installing different sorts of shades, in 
an attempt to examine the effectiveness of the 
options available. “We want to find out what 
works best, and we’ve done that as consis­
tently as we can during the construction 
^ phase,” Fenton said. In addition, a subcommit­
tee of the larger committee is going to visit all 
of the rooms that were renovated with a check­
list to make sure that everything has been done 
properly and brought up to standards.
As part of its work, the committee has initi­
ated a policy in which personnel from Instruc­
tional Services survey all classrooms and 
report to Design and Construction any repairs 
^ needed.
Along with the funds provided by the Uni­
versity, the committee also received a grant 
from the State of Pennsylvania of nearly 
$500,000, which it used to purchase and place 
in classrooms locked metal cabinets.
As far as long-term plans go, the committee 
is preparing to make recommendations re­
garding future classroom needs.
Women’s Club of Pittsburgh 
Offers Journalism Scholarship
PITTSBURGH—The Women’s Press 
Club of Pittsburgh will hold its annual 
scholarship contest at 11 am on Saturday, 
November 21 at Point Park College. Com­
petition is open to all junior and senior 
undergraduate women who aspire to ca­
reers in journalism, regardless of major.
Contestants will interview Mary Pat 
Flaherty, Pulitzer-Prize winning reporter 
of the Pittsburgh Press, and then write a 
story on deadline based on her comments. 
Stories will be juried by three members of 
the working press.
First-place winner will receive a $350
scholarship. Second prize is a $200 schol­
arship.
To register, students should send name, 
college, grade level, address, and phone 
number to:
Scholarship Contest 
1610 Denniston Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
or call 422-9422.
Then show up with notebook and pen at 
room 608, Academic Hall, Point Park 
College on Wood Street.
Previous first-place winners are not eli­
gible.
THIS BOX HAS AN AD BECAUSE 
SOMEONE DIDN'T WRITE AN 
ARTICLE THIS WEEK.
you can prevent Features 
house ads”
Staff Meeting Monday at 5:00 in the 
Tartan Office. See you there!
Symposium Concentrates On Dangers of AIDS
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The Second Annual Safe Sex Symposium 
was held on Thursday, November 5, in Wean 
Hall 7500. The two featured speakers were Dr. 
David Lighter and Dr. Sam Golden, both of the 
University of Pittsburgh. Golden, Clinical 
Instructor in the Infectious Diseases depart­
ment, spoke in place of the advertised speaker, 
Dr. Bruce Dixon, Chief of the Venereal Dis­
ease Section at Allegheny City Health Depart­
ment. Lighter works with the Pitt Men’s Study 
under Dr. Charles Renaldo.
Golden spoke about the clinical aspects of 
AIDS—what it is as far as scientists presently 
know. AIDS is an infection by a virus known 
as HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus), 
formerly referred to as HTLV-III or LAV. The 
virus attacks white blood cells called T-Lym- 
phocytes and kills cells known as “helper 
cells” which enhance the immune system. A 
person with this infection will often develop 
opportunistic diseases—diseases that only
strike when the immune system is very weak, 
such as Pneumocystis Carinii pneumonia and 
Kaposi’s Sarcoma, a once-rare skin cancer.
No accurate, inexpensive test for the HIV 
virus itself has been found. Doctors presently 
test for the antibodies the body creates when 
exposed to HIV. The test is more accurate than 
when it was first introduced in 1984, but it still 
is not perfect. “I don’t want to get into the 
argument of whether it’s a great screening test, 
because I don’t think it is,” said Golden. Re­
cently, the Western Blot test, which is more 
effective, but also cumbersome, has been used 
in conjunction with the test for HIV antibodies 
to confirm positive results. An exposed person 
will usually not test positive for four to six 
weeks after exposure, but some will not test 
positive for as long as a year after exposure. As 
a result, any test outcome has to be taken with 
a grain of salt. “The recommendations boil 
down to the same thing for both the gay and 
heterosexual communities: you have to as­
sume everyone’s infected,” said Lighter.
Lighter spoke about safe sex practices. “I 
prefer the term ‘safer’ sex,” he commented, 
“since it reduces, but does not entirely elimi­
nate the risk...One thing we’ve noticed...is that 
everyone has a high level knowledge of what’s 
safe and what’s unsafe, but not everybody 
always practices that knowledge.”
HIV is carried through body fluids. Semen 
and blood are the best carriers for the virus 
since they contain lymphocytes. Safe sex prac­
tices involve avoidance of contact with your 
partner’s body fluids. Lighter stressed the 
value of using condoms during sex to protect 
against HIV infection but also pointed out that 
they have a five to ten percent chance of 
breaking, in which case the condom would 
become useless.
The Symposium was sponsored by the Car­
negie Care Unit. Kevin Murtha, who organ­
ized the Symposium, expressed his pleasure 
with the turnout. AIDS, he said, is “an increas­
ing problem in society that is becoming more 
of everybody’s problem.”
Build a Dream Machine 
at AMD
Every new grad wants to be involved 
in interesting and challenging pro­jects. The reality is that at AMD, you really will have a chance to choose within a wide range of technologies 
right away. Our innovation lies in 
the creation of every type of memory, logic and microprocessing inte­grated circuit that will make the 
dream machines of the future 
possible.
When you choose to begin your career at AMD, you will find an upbeat spirit that belies our power 
as the world’s largest exclusive pro­ducer of integrated circuits. Our 
recent merger with Monolithic Memories has brought us even more 
strength and financial muscle. Your 
BS, MS or PhD in Electrical Engi­neering, Chemical Engineering,
Advanced Micro Devices
One great company.
Solid State Physics, Materials Science, or Computer Science could 
be your entry into one of the most stimulating and innovative environ­ments in the semiconductor industry. Opportunities are available at our 
Sunnyvale, California headquarters and at our Austin and San Antonio, 
Texas facilities.
On-Campus Interviews 
November 23 & 24
Check with your Placement office 
for more information. If you can’t attend our Interview and Informa­
tion Sessions, contact us directly. Send your resume to University 
Recruiting, Advanced Micro Devices, 
MS-57, 901 Thompson Place, P.O.
Box 3453, Sunnyvale, California 
94088. Or call TOLL FREE (800) 
538-8450, Ext. 2799, or call directly (408)749-2799. An equal opportunity 
employer.
You may sBnd yoursels 
buUdBng a Dream MachBne.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—November 10,1987
0onNs 7tuRSAn mK TKcR &oR,m,KAn
PITTSBURGH—Talent scouts from Busch 
Gardens, The Old Country, in Williamsburg, 
Va., will hold auditions here on Wednesday, 
November 18, 1987 from 1 pm to 5 pm at the 
Point Park College, Lawrence Hall, Dance 
Studio #4, as part of the park’s 19-city annual 
talent search.
Busch Entertainment Corporation is sending 
its Williamsburg entertainment staff to look 
for singers, dancers, musicians, actors, ac­
tresses, variety artists and stage technicians 
and managers to fill more than 250 positions at 
the park during the 1988 season.
Performers should be 18 years of age or older 
by June 1988 and be available for full-time 
employment during three-, seven- or nine-
month seasonal entertainment periods. Audi­
tions are conducted on a first-come, first- 
served basis, with performances limited to one 
to one-and-a-half minutes. Performers should 
be prepared to present additional material 
upon request for call-back auditions, which 
will be held immediately following scheduled 
auditions.
Busch Gardens is a 360-acre family enter­
tainment park featuring rides, shows, live en­
tertainment, shops and restaurants in eight au­
thentically detailed 17th-century European 
hamlets located north of historic Wil­
liamsburg, Va.
For more information about audition re­
quirements, call (804) 253-3302.
Don t touch that dial!
WRCT: Tune In Alternative Music
continued from page 17
student-oriented political talk show that 
features a panel of four students, two from 
“the left” and two from “the right.” They 
discuss controversial topics and current 
events, such as the Student Union referen­
dum, campus elections, AIDS, and the 
Persian Gulf situation. On Monday, No­
vember 16, “Freedom of Speech” will host 
guest PugWash lecturer Roger Boisjoly, a 
member of the engineering team who 
warned NASA not to launch the Chal­
lenger.
Sportsline continues to offer interviews 
and sports discussion, covering Carnegie 
Mellon hockey, basketball, buggy and all 
football games. Stay tuned for basketball 
previews featuring Head Coach of men's 
basketball Larry Anderson on Monday, 
November 10. y
"Sportsline is an excellent way to keep 
abreast of campus sports, and it's one of our 
funniest shows, too," remarks Neil 
Greenblum, General Manager.
In addition, WRCT announces a Radio 
Calendar of cultural events, art exhibitions,
community events, concerts and news sev­
eral times daily.
WRCT is open to students, faculty, and 
staff during the school year with training 
sessions available at the beginning of the 
summer and of each semester. Barkun en­
courages people to “come and check us 
out.”
Jainchill emphasizes the social atmos­
phere of the station. “It becomes a close- 
knit group...It’s easy to fit in as well by 
having such a diverse group.”
Barkun sees the dedicated volunteer staff 
of about 100 students (which includes DJs, 
engineering staff, etc.) as a cohesive group 
who are "here because they love it, and 
they’re here because they love the music 
and they want to make a commitment to the 
music.”
WRCT also serves as a break from stud­
ies. Barkun comments, “It’s a great way to 
meet people outside your major who do 
have a similar interest, and that interest is 
music...You always learn from other 
people. I don’t know what I’d do if I didn’t 
have this as an outlet.”
The Mannes College of Music
150 West 85th Street, New York, N.Y. 10024 • 212-580-0210
Audition Dates:
January 11, 1988 
March 2, 3, 4, 5, 1988 
May 25, 26, 27, 1988 
August/September 
to be announced
Scholarships are available.
Master of Music, Post-Graduate Diploma, 
Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Science, 
Diploma, Professional Studies Certificate.
Major Fields of Study
Dormitory 
Rooms 
Available
ou8A 8A m ,bSBnKLK n8AL8Rd bv LuK vm,enLrH
jRAKSgnKA 8R fKA8hKR,K
The Galimir String Quartet 
The Marines Trio 
The Newman-Oltman 
Guitar Duo
CiMlJ
Edward Aldwell 
Arkady Aronov 
David Bar-Illan 
Claude Frank 
Richard Goode 
Jeannette Haien 
Eugenia Hyman 
Grant Johannesen 
Lilian Kallir 
Leon Pommers 
Marie Powers 
Josef Raieff 
Peter Serkin 
Nina Svetlanova 
Diane Walsh
JfsMl mRh 
“”Gf“” cG-i“ 
Ford Lallerstedt 
McNeil Robinson 
William Whitehead
-ofilsjP 
il-ofGcjlo- 
Nina Beilina, k8bn8R 
Raphael Bronstein,
k8bn8R mRh k8bnm 
Isidore Cohen. k8bn8R 
Felix Galimir, k8bn8R 
Shirley Givens, k8bn8R 
Lewis Kaplan, k8bn8R 
Ani Kavafian. k8bn8R 
David Nadien, k8bn8R 
Aaron Rosand, k8bn8R 
Dora Schwartzberg, k8bn8R 
Sally Thomas, k8bn8R 
Hiroko Yajima. k8bn8R 
Paul Doktor, k8bnm mRh k8bn8R 
John Graham, k8bnm 
Sol Greitzer, k8bnm 
Karen Ritscher, k8bnm 
Timothy Eddy. k8bnbR,Knnb 
Gary Hoffman, k8bnbR,Knnb 
Melissa Meell, k8bnbR,Knnb 
Paul Tobias, k8bnbR,Knnb 
Julius Levine, PbegnK .mAA 
Homer Mensch. PbegnK .mAA
HAEP
Gloria Agostini 
Lucile Lawrence
oicCMli mRh 
Cjf“G--iJl 
Norman Grossman 
Howard Van Hyning 
Chris Lamb 
Walter ftotenberger
pJJPpilP mRh 
.fM--
Andrew Lolya, 3neLK 
Thomas Nyfenger, 3neLK 
Elaine Douvas, JgbK 
John Ferrillo, JgbK 
Albert Goltzer, JgbK 
Mark Hill, JgbK 
Ronald Roseman, JgbK 
Gervase de Peyer, “nmy8RKL 
Peter Simenauer, “nmy8RKL 
Burt Bial, .mAAbbR mRh 
“bR LymgmAAbbR 
Harold Goltzer, .mAAbbR 
Judith LeClair, .mAAbbR 
Allen Won, -mxbBubRK 
Myron Bloom, 3yKR,u ”byR 
Ranier Delntinis, 3yKR,u ”byR 
Antonio Iervolino, 3yKR,u ”byR 
David Jolley, 3yKR,u ”byR 
Philip Myers, 3yKR,u ”byR 
Mel Broiles, oyeSBKL 
Vincent Penzerella, oyeSBKL 
James Smith, oyeSBKL 
JoeAlessi, oybSgbRK 
Per Brevig, oybSgbRK 
Donald Harwood,
.mAA oybSgbRK 
Stephen Johns, oegm
“­M--i“M­ sGioMf
Eliot Fisk 
Frederic Hand 
Sharon Isbin 
Herbert Levine 
Michael Newman
Jf“”j-ofM mRh
Jf“”j-ofM­
“JlPG“oils
Yakov Kreizberg. ceA8, P8yK,Lby
“”JfG- mRh 
“”JfM­ “JlPG“oils
Amy Kaiser. ceA8, P8yK,Lby
kJi“j 
Richard Barrett 
Charles Bressler 
Thomas Cultice 
Peter Elkus 
Antonia Lavanne 
Dan Marek 
Marian Thompson 
Theodor Uppman
Pi“oiJl
NicoCastel, 3yKR,uD
sKySmRD mRh iLmn8mR 
Dorothy Uris, jRdn8Au
kJ“M­
“”Mc.jf cG-i“
Fredric Popper
M“oils mRh 
-oMsj“fM3o 
Wesley Balk 
Janet Bookspan 
Nina David 
Louis Peterson
JCjfM “JM“”ils
Marshall Williamson 
Alexander Ryvkin
-Jls
ilojfCfjoMoiJl
Antonia Lavanne
”i-oJfi“M­
Cjf3JfcMl“j
Valerie Horst,
CybdymS “bbyh8RmLby 
Julianne Baird, kb8,K 
Charles Bressler, kb8,K 
Marcy Lindheimer, kb8,K 
Kenneth Cooper. ”myBA8,ubyh 
Lionel Party, ”myBA8,ubyh 
Patrick O'Brien, ­eLK 
Nancy Wilson, .mybWeK k8bn8Rw 
P8yK,LbyD .mybWeK 
“umSgKy jRAKSgnK 
Myron Lutzke, .mybWeK “Knnb 
Michael Willens, k8bnbRK 
Richard Taruskin,
k8bnm hm smSgm 
Dennis Godburn, fK,byhKyD 
.mybWeK .mAAbbRD Pen,8mR 
Stephen Hammer, fK,byhKyD 
.mybWeK JgbK 
Philip Levin, fK,byhKyD
.mybWeK .mAAbbR 
Sandra Miller, .mybWeK 3neLK 
Steven Silverstein, “bSKLLb 
Benjamin Peck, -m,’geLD 
P8yK,LbyD cmRRKA 
fKRm8AAmR,K .mRh 
Benjamin Harms, CKy,eAA8bR 
Paul C. Echols, P8yK,LbyD 
cmRRKA “mSKymLm
“”Mc.jf cG-i“ 
mRh jl-jc.­j
Per Brevig
Terry Champlin
Paul Doktor ,
Timothy Eddy 
Felix Galimir 
John Graham 
Howard Van Hyning 
Julius Levine 
Marie Powers 
Peter Simenauer 
Diane Walsh 
Hiroko Yajima
“JlojcCJfMf2 
jl-jc.­j 
Madeline Shapiro.
P8yK,Lby
-j“JlPMf 2 CiMlJ
Emilie Harris 
Miriam Kartch
“JcCJ-ioiJl
Charles Jones 
David Loeb 
Peter Pindar Stearns 
David Tcimpidis 
Frederick Werle
oj“”li1Gj- 
J3 cG-i“
Elizabeth Aaron 
Edward Aldwell 
Poundie Burstein 
Terry Champlin 
Robert Cuckson 
Douglas Diamond 
Leo Edwards 
Charles Jones'
Ford Lallerstedt 
Larry Laskowski 
David Loeb 
Mei-Mei Meng 
William Needelman 
Frank Nemhauser 
Marie Powers 
Carl Schachter 
David Stern 
Eric Wen 
Frederick Werle
CjPMsJs2
Emilie Harris 
Marie Powers 
Carl Schachter
”i-oJf2 mRh 
­iojfMoGfj J3 cG-i“
Jane Gottlieb, M.S.L.S., symhemLK 
-Leh8KAD ­8LKymLeyK bv ceA8, 
Andrew E. Green, M.M., ”8ALbyr bv 
ceA8,
L. Michael Griffel, Ph.D., symhemLK 
-Leh8KAD ­8LKymLeyK bv ceA8, 
Charles Kaufman, Ph.D., ”8ALbyr bv 
ceA8,
Kenneth Stern, Ph D., -Leh8KA 8R 
JBKym ”8ALbyr 
Frederick Werl£ M.M.,
ceA8, ­8LKymLeyK
M“MPjci“ -oGPij-
Gale Justin, M.A., pKALKyR 
“8U8n89mL8bR 
Suzanne Osborne, B.A., sKySmR 
Elinor Richter, Ph.D., MyL ”8ALbyr 
Martin Smith, M.A., jRdn8Au 
“bSBbA8L8bRD ­8LKymLeyK 
Carol Rosen Xing. M A, jRdn8Au 
vby 3byK8dR -LehKRLA
For additional information:
Write or call Ms. Marilyn Groves, Director of Admissions
The Mannes College of Music • 150 West 85th Street, New York, N.Y.10024 • 212-580-0210
Collegiate YMCA 
Offers Programs
By KELLY SPENCER
Tartan Staffwriter
Most people think of the YMCA as a recrea­
tion and fitness center for, who else, young 
men. But not many of these people know 
about a branch of the YMCA, the Collegiate 
YMCA. The Collegiate YMCA is a progres­
sive organization which, for 80 years, has 
enabled both male and female students to 
initiate and direct community service pro­
grams. The group currently has chapters at 
Carlow, Duquesne, and the University of 
Pittsburgh, and is awaiting recognition from 
the Student Senate here at Carnegie Mellon.
The Collegiate YMCA offers opportunities 
to develop leadership, administrative, and
wCOLLEGIATE
CMUS
social skills as well as to meet new people 
without any added tuition. Programs currently 
available include:
Female Offenders : Volunteers offer tutor­
ing and support services for women recently 
released from incarceration.
McIntyre Shelter: Volunteers visit the shel­
ter to provide recreational activities and de­
velop relationships with students.
Decibels: Volunteers work with the School 
of the Deaf to provide recreational and educa­
tional activities for students.
Light: Volunteers conduct educational and 
recreational activities for students at the 
School for the Blind.
Campus : Volunteers tutor area elementary, 
middle, and high school students in the subject 
of the volunteer’s major area of strength.
One to One : Volunteers become Big Broth­
ers and plan activities for a youth in need of a 
friend and role model.
These are only a few of the opportunities 
available. All are welcome to join and may 
contact either Dave O’Brien (x.2139) or Keith 
Condridge (648 - 7960) for more info. “One 
hour a week of contact with you can make a 
great difference in the life of a young person.”
;SS? A

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page 21
£
K
ir
The Sting and Racer-X Report: Fall 1987
By STEVE NG &
MARK ESTES
Special to The Tartan
Author’s Note: If there has ever been any­
thing that the Tartan has seldom covered well 
over the period of the school year, it’s buggy. 
But have no fear buggymaniacs, the problem 
has been solved. This article will be exclu­
sively for reporting the buggy happenings on 
and off the course, in freeroll or even in those 
dreaded Alumni committee meetings. Unlike 
the yearly compubookie predictions which 
give a humorous view of the participants of 
this event and their predicted finishes, this 
article will provide chairmen, pushers, driv­
ers, mechanics and spectators a week by week 
lowdown of the big picture leading up to the 
starting gun on race day. We’ re not here to cut 
down on organizations to get a laugh out of the 
reader, but to be informative to those who 
might have missed some things during 
freerolls or those who are just getting their 
first tastes of the buggy addiction.
One of the essential qualities we would like to 
stress in this article will be that of objectivity. 
Okay, so you ask how can an ex-safety chair­
man and has-been Fringe chairman, along 
with an ex-Sigma Nu buggy chairman be ob­
jective? We plan on giving credit where it’s 
due, and the thumbs down for those organiza­
tions who aren’t getting their act together. 
We’ll provide observations made on the 
course and try to piece them together to pro­
vide rational and logical expectations for that 
special weekend in April. During freeroll 
weekends, we’ll be providing times to show 
you who’s fastest, reporting who’s looking 
good and if any radical stuff is rolling down 
the hill. During the winter, we’ll be discussing 
the new rules, Head-Judge decision making, 
interviews with drivers, chairmen and other 
topics which have been quite controversial in 
past years.
Your input is also appreciated. If you have 
some observations you’d like to share, or feel 
our reporting is out of line, and think theSoccer Ends 
With a Win
continued from page 28
showed that they have the necessary young 
talent as three underclassmen scored. And 
throughout the season, after being thrust into 
the starting role, sophomore keeper Hooger- 
werf has been the backbone of the team.
Says Shvanda of next year’s team, “We have 
to learn to control the ball better, win the close 
games, and play tougher defense if we expect 
to improve in the years to come.”
“We’re looking forward to a better season,” 
added Pizzella. “We need to come together, 
gain consistency, and control the ball more, 
and if we can do that, I think we’ll gel as a 
team.”
CRUISE SHIPS
Now Kirin*. M/F Summer & Career Op­
portunities (Will Train). Excellent pay phia 
world travel Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, 
etc. CALL NOW206-736-0775 Ext. 83*H
Wonderful 
Pledges
I Thank You for a
I FABULOUS CRUSH 
PARTY!
I!L_
Hie sisters of 
Delta Gamma.........................................^
information is bogus, we’d like to know. All 
views and comments are welcome. Sorry 
about not getting the article out during the fall 
rolls, but this week we will be providing a 
synopsis of an unusually rain free fall roll. It 
was good to see a lot of people taking the fall 
seriously •' and using it to develop and 
strengthen their buggy technology and 
driver’s lines.
Fall rolls went smoothly with very few mis­
haps. Freeroll times were quicker than previ­
ous falls with DU, CIA, Pika and the Zoo 
showing the most speed. DU’s two wheelers 
were looking more stable on the roll and in the 
push, but still had mishaps on the front hills.
Ruggers End 
Fall at 6-1
continued from page 22
The A team finished the fall at 6-1, a vast 
improvement over last spring’s 1-5 record. 
The ruggers are looking forward to the spring 
season and encourage any new members to 
join them in the spring.
The Zoo showed good depth by rolling three 
consistently fast buggies. The new line they 
are trying through the chute may be the answer 
to their race day woes. CIA had Spectre (last 
years ‘C’ team buggy) rolling well; Black 
Magic was not to be seen. Their new chute turn 
resembles the Zoo’s old line and could be a bad 
move. Pika had the fastest rolls of the fall, but 
seemed to be taking an uncharacteristically lax 
approach towards buggy. They did not roll all 
of their buggies, had encounters with the bales, 
and blew off rolls during midsemester break.
Air Force ROTC came out to rolls looking 
much improved. The rolling mailbox got a 
much needed face lift. New pneumatic tires of
the back end raised their speed from laughable 
to semi-respectable. All they need now is a 
front wheel. The Pioneers and AEPi rolled for 
the first time ever. Neither team showed much 
speed but it is good to have them rolling. AEPi 
seemed to be rolling an old Phi-Kap buggy. 
Their incredible lack of speed may lead them 
in search of new wheels. For all of the big 
talking they did last year, the Pioneers rolled 
amazingly slow and loud.
Pilam, Kappa Sig, ATO and SAE did not roll 
this fall. Pilam and Kappa Sig made a great 
deal of noise last year when they were not 
allowed to roll on race day. Blowing off rolls 
is not the path to 1988.
Do you play on a club that represents Carnegie Mellon in a sport?
The Tartan wants to let the campus know about you. Contact the 
Sports Editor at x2111 to get some recognition.
If you want to write about your club or any sport, Sports staff 
meetings are every Tuesday at 7:30 in Skibo 50.
Students Interested in a Career in Accounting and Finance
CHOOSE
WISELY.
he Dun & Bradstreet 
Corporation urges 
you to take a good 
look at the many 
career options avail­
able to you after grad­
uation. Making the 
right choice, choosing the right com­
pany from the start, can determine 
how far and how rapidly you will ulti­
mately progress in your career.
Meet with Dun & Bradstreet for 
an on-campus interview, and learn 
how we can be that right company for 
you. The one that complements you 
professionally. And personally.
We’ll talk to you about our lead­
ership position in one of today s most 
quickly growing industries — business 
information services. And, since we 
are the leader in the industry, we have 
the capabilities to offer you a wide 
variety of career opportunities you 
might not find in banking, brokerage 
and accounting firms.
But most of all, we’ll want to 
learn about you, and find out if you 
have what it takes to join our challeng­
ing Business Training Program.
A flexible 18-month program 
designed to give a select group of 
high-potential college graduates, 
interested in careers in accounting 
and finance, a hands-on introduction 
to Dun & Bradstreet and the industry 
in which we compete.
As a BTP trainee you’ll partici­
pate in a series of rotational assign­
ments in various areas of the 
company. While in the program you’ll 
gain early responsibility, high visibility 
and a clear picture of the many possi­
bilities available to you in a financial 
career with Dun & Bradstreet.
So, when deciding on a com­
pany where you can begin your 
career, choose wisely. Look to Dun & 
Bradstreet.
We’ll be Interviewing on 
campus on Tuesday, January 19th.
For more information, visit your 
placement office.
? Maximize Your Choices.
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—November 10,1987
Next Week, Regionals
Lady Tartans Run To PAC Title
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor 
When attempting anything new, there is 
usually a learning curve involved, but for the 
Cross-Country Lady Tartans, that curve has 
been closer to a vertical line. In three years as 
a varsity team, the runners have taken three 
President’s Athletic Conference Women’s 
Cross-Country titles.
Last Saturday, the Lady Tartans ran past 
second-place Grove City’s Lady Wolverines 
on route to victory, 36-43. Carnegie Mellon 
was led by the trio of last year’s PAC Cham­
pion Sue Johnson, freshman Kristin Burgard, 
and senior Pat Fall, who finished third, fifth, 
and sixth respectively.
This year’s field seemed tougher for some of 
the Lady Tartans. “The competition was much 
tougher,” proclaimed Johnson, “it was much 
tougher this year.”
This weekend, Carnegie Mellon takes on an 
even tougher field at the NCAA Eastern Re­
gionals in Allentown. Last year, the Lady 
Tartans placed thirteenth and are looking to 
improve their standing, and perhaps make it to 
the NCAA Championships the next week.
“I would say we have an outside chance,”
predicts first-year Coach Dario Donatelli. 
Only the top two teams from the 25+ school 
field will travel to Michigan the following 
weekend for Nationals.
Johnson agrees that it is possible, but un­
likely for Carnegie Mellon to make the Cham­
pionships. “One of us (Johnson, Burgard, or 
Fall) to come in the top ten, and the others in 
the top twenty,” are her criteria for victory. 
Donatelli is pleasantly surprised with his 
team’s performance. “I’m surprised. At the 
beginning, we had only five or six girls. Molly 
(Moritz) and Sue were the only two top cross­
country runners returning.”
The performance of the top three runners has 
helped this season be such a success. Notes 
Johnson, “Kristin, Pat and I trained together, 
we work better as a team.” Their performance 
has also been noted by Burgard. “When I was 
in high school, we had a definite number one, 
and a definite number two. Here you don’t 
have the pressure of being number one.” 
Whether the Lady Tartans have reached their 
limit or will continue to climb remains to be 
seen. However, Johnson seems to feel her 
teammates are up to the task, “We’ll give it our 
best shot, we’re pumped.”
Rugby Routs Salem 26-0
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
In the last game of the season, the rugby 
team blew out Salem College, 26-0.
From start to finish, the ruggers thor­
oughly controlled the game. However, the 
pace of the game early was Salem’s. They 
used a kicking game to try to back up the 
ruggers. But once the rugby squad got its 
offense going, the game turned to a run- 
and-hit style in which they have been most 
successful.
The game was marked with tenacious hit­
ting. A monstrous tackle precipitated a 
bench-clearing brawl at the end of the first 
half. The two teams had to be separated and 
the half ended 2 minutes early.
The ruggers started the scoring with Mike 
Kleha, the squad’s leading scorer diving 
into the try zone. Kleha has been the cata­
lyst of the offense, scoring first several 
times this season. Pete Wolcott scored the 
second try, making the score 10-0 at the end 
of the first half.
In the second half Pat Boyle punched the 
ball in and then Dom Ianno broke away
from the pack to run for 65 yards and score. 
Ianno displayed spectacular moves to get 
past Salem’s fullback and into the try zone. 
Jerry Stocker added 2 extra points and 2 
Held goals.
The B team also defeated Salem 32-0. 
They were led by David Brill and John 
Ward who both scored two tries apiece.
Ward started the scoring with a strong run 
up the sideline. He was followed by Jay 
Nesbitt. The scoring continued when Brill 
made the first of his two tries on a nice 
slashing run with a key cutback that got him 
into the try zone. Then Ward added another 
try with an equally impressive run breaking 
tackles left and right and bulling his way 
into the try zone.
At half the score was 20-0. In the second 
half the ruggers scored three more times 
with Dan Lemer first, followed by Scott 
Harrison. The last try was scored on a 
combined effort with a few minutes re­
maining.
The victory left the B team at 2-2-2 on the 
season.continued on page 21
*8\
>Nee*
Sh
9;Ä®cesS ec ^om^co^ 2
Call us. 
68c-c700315 N. Craig St.52c-2h70623 Greenfield Ave.
14-oz. Coke(* Classic only 25*.
Offers not valid with any 
other coupon or offer.
Locally owned and operated.
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.
©1987 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
$3.99SPECIAL
12” 8-cut 
cheese pizza $3.99 
Additional toppings 80*
All prices subject to sales tax.
No coupon necessary.
$5.99SPECIAL
16” 12-cut 
cheese pizza $5.99 
Additional toppings $1.20
All prices subject to sales tax.
No coupon necessary.
Volleyball Wins 
Two of Three
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
The final week of the women’s volleyball 
season was played in the team’s usual fashion, 
up and down. CMU finished its season with 
matches against Presidential Athletic Confer­
ence (PAC) rivals Hiram and Bethany, and 
non-conference opponent Robert Morris; two 
wins and one loss.
On Thursday, the team travelled to Bethany, 
where it split a pair of matches - a heartbreak­
ing loss to Bethany 2-1 (12-15,15-3,6-15) and 
a hard earned victory over Robert Morris 
College 2-1 (14-16, 15-11, 15-9). The first 
match of the evening against Bethany was 
played well by both teams. The hitting was 
hard, the court coverage was excellent, and 
defense at the net was solid. However, the 
Lady Bisons prevailed. The Lady Tartans 
played some of their best offense of the season, 
recording 29 kills and only 9 hitting errors. 
Offensive team leaders of the match were 
sophomore Kristine Loh with 7 kills and fresh­
man Nicole Hanak with 6. Carnegie Mellon 
also tallied 8 serving aces, as well as 6 serving 
and 11 receiving errors.
The team’s match against Robert Morris 
lasted almost an hour and a half. Because both 
teams were playing so well, neither team was 
able to take advantage of being in possession 
of the serve. Service kept passing from side to 
side, but a disciplined Carnegie Mellon squad 
would not quit. After losing the first game to 
a taller Robert Morris team, the Lady Tartans 
regrouped and won the next two doing what 
they do best - playing basic volleyball. Being 
their last collegiate game, it was only fitting 
that seniors Monica Zalevsky and Marianne 
Smith lead the offense, combining for 22 of 
Carnegie Mellon’s 43 kills, 14 and 8 respec­
tively. Hanak also had 8 kills in the match. 
The team committed 15 hitting errors.
Earlier in the week, the Lady Tartans picked 
up a win by trouncing Hiram 3-0(15-5, 15-8, 
15-7). The team communicated well, covered 
the court effectively, and made the most of the 
Lady Terriers’ miscues. Offensively, leader­
ship was provided by Zalevsky and sopho­
more Laurie Shumaker, both picking up 7 kills 
for the match. As a whole, the team recorded 
31 kills and 11 hitting errors.
The team ends its season with a PAC record 
of 7-5, 17-17 overall, and high hopes for next 
year.

---------------------------------------------------

He was just this guy in 
my class with cool- 
looking hair. I never 
thought we had any­
thing in common— 
until we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta­
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple. Class of ’87
MO APPOINTMENT CÄÄAYNECESSARY UMH ICHfCCTflTltnS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
TheThe
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25*00only $13.00only $8a00
Complete with writtenComplete with shampooCut onlyguaranteeand blow style
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at ...APPOINT MIN’ Ni CESSAR»
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~SAVE~$2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer Expires 
November 30J
kMJmmU&f
EKfccTfmms
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
no ijoinun aitoioo a m-. 
; UOV 319H O'.vi T.y
Citicorp/Citibank
Operations & Marketing 
Career Presentation
CBtBcorp/CBtBbank Bn-Btes you 
to talk wBth representatB-es srom 
our sBnancBal BnstBtutBons group 
about career opportunBtBes and
operatBons & marketBng.
Date: Wed. Nov. 18 
Time: 7-9 pm
Place: Skibo Rm 201
Refreshments will be served
PHYSICAL EDUCATION REGISTRATION
DATE: November 11 & 12, 1987
PLACE: Baker Hall
Across from the Academic Advisory Center
TIME: 9:00 am to 4:00 pm
All graduate and undergraduate students including freshmen CIT 
and MCS students may register for Physical Education Courses. 
Physical Education Courses are 6 units each and include:
Raquetball 
Weight Training 
Personal Fitness 
Karate 
Volleyball 
Tennis
Beginner's Swimming 
Intermediate Swimming
Swimmers
Advanced Life Saving 
Red Cross Life Guard 
CPR/First Aid 
Golf 
Aerobics
Weight Training for Women
For more information, call - 268-2211

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate Funding and Recognition Committee
Fall 1987 Report to All Activities Fee Paying Students
As required by the Student Senate Fiscal Policy, I, Tamal Mukherjee, respectfully submit the summary of all subsidy alloca­
tions that the Funding and Recognition Committee will be recommending to the Student Senate at 7:00pm on Tuesday, 
November 10,1987 at the Wherrett Room in Skibo. Representatives of alt the organizations listed below are required
to be present at the meeting.
Organizations Subsidy
Carnegie Involvement Association$1,757
Carnegie Care Unit$1,244
Emergency Medical Squad$1,765
Filmmaking Club$516
FRINGE$1,630
Law Club$416
Macintosh Users Group$668
Mayur$160
Oakland Review.t>\ V*-- *$1,870
Robotics Club$660
Scotch ’n Soda$2,680
Shotokan Karate Club$133
Spring Carnival$15,575
Sweepstakes$8,735
Ultimate Frisbee Club$625
Voices United Gospel Choir4 E I Nr _ '/ ' ‘ *$620
Women's Lacrosse Club-$1,245
TOTAL$40,299
All Activities Fee paying students are invited to come to the meeting and participate in the allocation process. I would like to take this opportunity to 
express my appreciatoion to the leaders of the organizatons, the members of the Funding and Recognition Committee, and especially to Dean Cox, for 
all the work they have done to make this a successful semester for the committee.
TAMAL MUKHERJEE 
co-Chair of Funding,
Funding and Recognition Committee 
Student Senate.
HOWTO ENRICH YOUR EDUCATION BY $1,000 A MONTH.
If you’re a math, engineering or physical 
sciences major, you could be earning 
SI,000 a month during your junior and 
senior years.
This excellent opportunity is part of 
the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer 
Candidate Program. It’s one of the most 
prestigious ways of entering the nuclear. 
field-and rewarding, too. You get a 
$4,000 bonus upon entrance into the 
program, and $2,000 more when you 
complete your Naval studies.
You also receive a year of paid 
graduate-level training that’s the most 
comprehensive in the world. And you’ll 
acquire expertise with state-of-the-art
nuclear reactor and propulsion plant 
technology.
As a Navy officer, you’ll lead the 
adventure while gaining high-level expe 
rience that will help make you a leader ir. 
one of the world’s high-tech industries.
In addition to the professional 
advantages, nuclear-trained officers get 
an unbeatable benefits package, 
travel opportunities, promotions and 
a solid salary.
Find out more about the Navy 
Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate 
Program, and make your education start 
paying off today. Call Navy Manage­
ment Programs: (412) 644-6435
A Navy Representative will be in th Placement Office on 
November 12 from 9-4. Sign up in 
the Placement Office.
NAVY‘S OFFICER.
“The Best Place In Town For A
Wing Out!
Over a Dozen Sauces From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Open 3:30 p.m. T H till 10 
F S till 11 
Open Sundays • till 8
CALL:421-WING
Our Ribs?
ccBest in the City
—H/lariani’s Coast to-Coast Dining Guida
RIB HOUSE (SQ. HILL)
f8gA a “u8,’KR a .mygK,eK -BK,8mnL8KA6'I"

---------------------------------------------------

&
s snow covers the English countryside, the ’ great dining halls of medieval castles are filled with the sights, sounds and aromas of preparation for the Madrigal Feast. Yuletide in 16th century is a busy, happy occasion with celebrants gathering holly, ivy and pine to complete the tables, musicians rehearsing and cooks preparing the traditional boar’s head dinner, complete with the festive wassail bowl and flaming plum pudding.
But the food is not all that fills the evening with the joy that it brings. The Jester and jugglers practice their trades. The magicians prepare their newest feats of magi­cal skill. The dancers perfect their routines. The singers choose their festive songs.
All of this ceremony and more will be brought to Carnegie Mellon as the fourth annual Madrigal Feast is held in the Great Dining Hall of Skibo Castle. The Department of Student Activities, Activities Board and the Department of Music invite you to join the Lords and Ladies, Renaissance musicians and Madri­gal singers, dancers, jugglers and magicians for this festive occasion on Friday, December 4. Dress in your best 16th century or 20th century finery and join us for a Renaissance Feast served in the candlelit Skibo Ballroom. Presiding over the evening will be the Lord of Misrule, Ye Jester.
Friday, December 4, 19 8 7
Reception ... 6M) pm. Skibo Lobby/ 
Wherrett Room
Dinner ... 7.¦00 pm. Skibo Ballroom
Entertainment will be provided by the 
Cameron Choir and Friends... Ye guests 
are permuted to wear traditional clothe.
Dinner Menu:
Sparkling Apple Cider
Hearty Winter Salad
Roast Top Round of Beef with Madiera
Wine Sauce
Broccoli and Cauliflower Florettes
Par sited Red Potatoes
Sour dough and Pumpemickle Bread
with whipped butter
Cherries Jubilee
Choice of Beverage
Tickets:
Purchase at the Skibo Information Desk 
Tuesday. November 10-Wednesday, 
December 2
Monday through Friday, 9 am — 5 pm
$9.00 Non CMU Students
$6.00 CMU Students
iS.00 Children under 10 years
WHAT ABOUT YOUR SELF?
SIGN UP FOR BROWN BAG LUNCHTIME WORKSHOPS.
Sponsored by the Counseling and Student Development Center.
RELATIONSHIPS - INTIMATE AND OTHERWISE 
Monday, November 16 - Begins at noon
MANAGING SCHOOL AND PERSONAL STRESS 
Tuesday, November 17 - Begins at noon
PROCRASTINATION - DON'T MISS THIS ONE !
Wednesday, November 18 - Begins at noon
EATING DISORDERS - WHAT THEY ARE - HOWTO HELP 
Friday, November 20 - Begins at noon
FOR INFORMATION, REGISTRATION AND ROOM LOCATION:
CALL x2922 or visit
COUNSELING AND STUDENT DEVELOPMENT CENTER
MOREWOOD GARDENS, E-TOWER, ROOM 103
9:00 am to 12 noon and 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm Monday - Friday

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26—The Tartan—November 10,1987
Colucci Steps Into the Spotlight
photo by Andy Gillespie
PHI Player of the Game Mike Colucci (60) leads the way for Mike Hensel (10).
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
Sophomore, sophomore, sophomore, senior, 
sophomore. Those are the years of the Tar­
tans’ offensive line. The four sophomores 
have garnered their share of attention this 
season, sometimes at the expense of the lone 
senior. That was until senior guard Mike 
Colucci stepped back into the spotlight against 
Bethany, becoming the Panther Hollow Inn 
(PHI) Player of the Game.
Graduation claimed four starters from last 
season’s offensive line. A pre-season injury to 
center Kai Mebust left the Jamestown N.Y. 
native as the only Tartan offensive lineman 
with more than one year's experience. Co­
lucci was unsure how the untested line would 
hold up. “I knew we had a young line and a 
little depth,” he noted.
It soon fell upon his and tight end Tim 
Kelly’s shoulders to become the leaders on the 
offensive line. “Someone has to assume a 
leadership role,” claimed the senior. In the 
early games against Allegheny and Case 
Western, the offensive line played adequately, 
but its inexperience showed.
However, that has changed as the season has 
progressed. “I guess it’s to the point that it had
to come together,” remarked Colucci. In 
games against Thiel, Grove City, Washington 
and Jefferson, and Bethany, the offense has 
come alive. This is due in no small part to the 
line’s play. The senior claims, “We owned the 
line of scrimmage the last four games.” 
Colucci could point to the results of 
Saturday’s game against Bethany as proof. 
The solid blocking of the line allowed the 
Tartans to amass 335 yards on 48 attempts, 
averaging almost seven yards per carry.
It was a Colucci block that sprung quarter­
back Mike Hensel for a 30 yard touchdown run 
early in the second quarter, giving the Tartans 
all of the points they needed against the hap­
less Bisons.
The senior will have one more start in the 
trenches this Saturday against University 
Athletic Association rival Washington Uni­
versity. After that, the four sophomores will 
become the leaders. But until then, the lone 
senior will shine in the trenches.
Sidelines
A Look at the Sports World 
Compiled By PERRY PIERCE
BATTLE SET IN SAN DIEGO
The 1991 America’s Cup challenger 
applications were due last week. Eight­
een challengers representing ten coun­
tries filed to race. Leading the way with 
five entries was Australia, who lost the 
cup last spring.
NY MARATHON A BIG SUCCESS
The New York Marathon was held 
two Sundays ago, with Ibrahim Hussein 
of Keyna winning the race in 2:11:01. 
The first woman to cross the line was 
Great Britain’s Priscilla Welch with a 
time of 2:30:17. Both winners received 
$25,000cash and a new Mercedes-Benz 
automobile.
WATSON WINS AGAIN
Tom Watson finally ended a 3-year 
winless skid recently by winning the 
Nabisco Championship. Watson, has 
won five British Opens, two Masters, 
and one U.S. Open championship.
FLYERS BROWN GROUNDED
The Philadelphia Flyers this past week 
lost the services of Dave Brown for 15 
games. The NHL handed down the sus­
pension ruling when Brown slashed the 
Rangers’ Thomas Sandstrom in the face 
after the referee’s whistle had blown, 
stopping play. This is Brown’s second 
offense. He was suspended for five 
games for slashing Sandstrom last year.
DUKE GETS A FOR ACADEMICS
Duke University received the College 
Football Association’s 1987 award for 
the best graduation rate of its football 
players. Duke graduated 95.8 percent 
of the players who initially enrolled in 
1982. This was the third time in the last 
seven years that the Blue Devils have 
taken the trophy.
ROOKIES OF THE YEAR NAMED
In what appears to be a first, the Na­
tional and American Leagues both 
named unanimous choices for their re­
spective Rookie of the Year awards. In 
the senior circuit, San Diego’s Benito 
Santiago received the honors, while the 
American League named Oakland’s 
Mark McGwire. The Pirates’ Mike 
Dunne finished second in NL voting.
STADIUM PLANS REJECTED
The San Fransisco Giants and New 
York Yankees received blows recently. 
Election day referendums stopped pro­
posed construction of new stadiums in 
New Jersey and San Fransisco. The 
New Jersey Meadowlands was the site 
the Yankees proposed to move to, while 
the Giants hoped to build a new stadium 
in downtown San Francisco.
NBA SEASON STARTS
The 1987-88 NBA season started last 
weekend. Many expect the defending 
champion Los Angeles Lakers to repeat 
as champs. If so, it will be the first time 
a team has done so since 1969. In other 
NBA news, David Robinson, the 7’1" 
center from Navy signed a multi-year 
deal with the San Antonio Spurs which 
will reportedly pay a total of $29 million 
when his contract expires. Robinson 
has expressed interest in playing for the 
1988 Olympic team, so all the money he 
will receive until then will be placed in 
a trust fund. This will allow Robinson to 
keep his amateur status.
Think there’s no )lace in business 'or someone with a liberal arts degree?
Think again.
A Master’s from The Annenberg School of Communica­
tions, combined with your bachelor’s degree, can take 
you into a management career in the mass media or 
telecommunications.
Here’s what some recent graduates of Annenberg’s 
Master’s in Communications Management are doing:
Suzanne B., B.A., French, U.C. Berkeley
Vice President, Programming Sales, ABC Radio
Steve B., B.A., Fine Arts, Ohio University 
Senior Vice President, Creative Affairs,
Columbia Pictures-TV
Paul D., B.A., English, U. Michigan
Manager, Marketing and Public Policy, Pacific Bell
Sara K., B.A., Political Science, Duke 
Director, Creative Services,
Assoc, of TV Programming Executives
Pam R., B.A., Asian Studies, Mount Holyoke 
Director, Public Relations,
St. Paul Medical Center
Karl K., B.A., Economics, USC
Senior Telecommunications Consultant,
Price Waterhouse '
Wendell F., B.A., Radio/TV/Film, Northwestern 
Manager, Audience and Syndication Research, 
Walt Disney Co.
HERE ARE TWO WAYS The Annenberg School, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
prepares graduates for their careers.
Course work in...
-*“ • • management of media firms
• communications technologies
• law and public policy
• international communications
• diffusion of innovations
• communication in organizations
O On the job learning...
• internships in Los Angeles 
and Washington, D.C.
• job placement, while in school and after
• access to alumni network
Please send me more information. 
Name__________________________
Address
City/State/Zip
Currently Attending
MAIL TO: The Annenberg School of Communications
3502 South Hoover Street, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90089-0281

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Sports Calendar
November 9:
November 14:
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm 
Guests: Coach Larry Anderson, Hart Coleman, David Sikora 
Football vs Washington (Mo) at Tech Field, 12:30 pm (WRCT) 
Men’s Cross-Country NCAA Regionals at Allentown 
Women’s Cross-Country NCAA Regionals at Allentown
IM News
MM BOARD
The next IM Board meeting will be on Thurs­
day ^November 19th at 1 pm in the gym confer­
ence room.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
Tennis - Commissioner Mike Hayes x4086 
Finals will be this week. Please check the IM 
^ulletin board for more details.
Faculty and Staff Tennis 
Please play matches and report results to the 
IM office.
Team Volleyball - Commissioner Stu Fox 
x4226
Playoffs start this week. Please check the IM 
bulletin board for the playoff schedule.
Raquetball - Commissioner Carl Bell 
Play matches as scheduled and turn in the 
scores to the IM office. All reschedulings 
must be arranged through the IM office.
Table Tennis - Comm. Bob Koca x8995 
Report all winning scores to the IM office as 
soon as possible.
A
~ Chess - Commissioner Matt Murbach x3934 
Play all games as scheduled, and turn in your 
scores to Matt as soon as possible.
Bowling - Commissioner Randy Brown 
x5501
Bowling wil continue to be held Saturday 
mornings at 10am on Strand Lanes. Bowling 
schedule is posted at Strand Lanes, and all 
teams are reminded to pay bowling fees. 
Strand will provide shoes free for the matches.
Soccer
Major Stu Fox x4226 
Inter. & Women Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Minor Mike Grzywinski 681-2826 
Schedules are available. A reminder - no 
varsity soccer players may participate.
Darts - Commissioner Rob Moses 683-8409 
Schedules are available; first matches should 
be played by 11/11.
SPORTS COMING UP
Three Person Volleyball - Commissioner 
Stepanie Janczak x4229 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
iM office. Games will begin Thursday, No­
vember 12th, and there will be no changes in 
the schedule.
Basketball - Commissioners 
Major League - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Inter. League - B.J. Rottschaefer x5503 
Minor League - Eric Jacobs x5510 
Women League - To Be Announced 
'Entry date is moved back to November 19th. 
Games will begin January 12th.
Backgammon
Entry date is moved back to Nov. 19th, and 
the rules clinic will be held on Jan. 12th at 4:30.
OTHER IM NEWS
In other news discussed at the past IM Board 
Meeting, everyone is reminded that all faculty 
and staff (full and part time) are permitted to 
play in the intramural program. Other items 
include proposed sites for the IM games next 
year.
The women’s intramural soccer All-Stars 
will be playing Chatham’s women’s IM team
November 21st.
The basketball officials club is starting! 
Anyone interested should contact Mike Mas- 
toianni at x2214 daily after 4pm. Although the 
IM season does not start until January, it is not 
too early to sign up.
The 3-man volleyball league has a new rec­
ord number of teams. Last year’s record of 47 
teams was shattered when 70 teams placed 
their entries. Due to the heavy demand for 
courts, no games will be rescheduled.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon won the 1987 Majors 
Intramural Water Polo Championship with an 
undefeated season. The strong SAE team did 
not lose one game during the entire year. In the 
season finale, SAE played the IM All-Stars, 
and was finally defeated in a close contest, 14-
11. The minor league champs were Air Force 
ROTC.
ALL-SPORTS TROPHY LEADERS
1. SPIRIT
2. PIKA
3. ECE
4. SUPA
5. PHI-KAP 
5. SAE
5. EASY MONEY 
5. THE WAVE
9. COMP. SCI.
10. NP COMPLETIONS 
10. DELTA UPSILON
570
320
241
126
90
90
90
90
63
56
56
IM FOOTBALL ALL-STAR TEAMS 
MAJORS
MVP - Robert Bowie - Crunch Bunch 
1st Team
Robert Bowie - Crunch Bunch 
Gary Como - ATO 
Evan Kaliner - PIKA 
John Murray - Crunch Bunch 
Mike Reed - PIKA 
Gary Breanninger - ATO
2nd Team
Don Flemming - Crunch Bunch 
Chris Kascho - ATO 
Brain Kirkendall - BETA 
Brad Taylor - Crunch Bunch 
Tom O’Toole - ATO 
Tony Aberante - Kappa Sigma 
Steve Krom - PIKA
INTERMEDIATES
MVP - Jay Glaspy - The Squad
1st Team
Jay Glaspy - The Squad 
Ed Baranowski - ECE 
Mike Greco - Easy Money 
Pat Flynn - SAE 
Scott Walston - Defects 
Mare Womack - The Squad
2nd Team
Dave Thuel - ECE
Phil Nigh - ECE
Bert Coudnet - SAE
Dave Denhard - DU
Warren Flax - SAE
Pat Carey - THETA XI
Ray Anson Jones - The Squad
MINORS 
1 st Team
John Frost - KDR 
Vic Banko - DU 
Todd Bross- PI LAM 
Jeff Pinard - PIKA 
Bob Blockbum - ECE 
Mike Florio - Drag Force
2nd Team
Jeff Russo - STG
Brad Wyatt - 7 Ecstacies
Ron Gabriel - PIKA
Ted Lehr - ECE
John Britton - NP Completions
Greg Harting - CIA
TENNIS
Majors Won
GSIA NOT MBA 5
MIS-N-MATCH 4
PHI KAPPA THETA 2
KSA 1
EUROPEAN TEAM 1
GSIA’S BIG BOYS 0
GSIA PLUS 0
SEI 1
THE B.A.M.F. 0
Intermediate A Won
PILAM 5
DV 0
ATO 0
GOLDEN SHOWERS 0
CSO-B 0
TUDOR 0
Intermediate B 
SIG TAU
SUPA FUZZBUSTERS 
OUR AD 
SHIRLEY SLUGS 
MUDSLINGERS 
CSO-A
RACQUETBALL
Majors 
PHI KAP-A 
KAPPA SIGMA 
THE TOASTERS 
6-E TEAM A 
PHI KAP-B 
Y ASH’S CREW 
PILAM
THE GREAT GUYS
Minors 
SIG TAU 
DELTA UPSILON 
A-CLUB 
AFROTC
HAMMER SLAMMERS 
ALPHA EPSILON PI 
6-E TEAM B
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Majors-National League 
GSIA 
CSO
THE 21 ’S 
THE ROGUES 
FORCE 10 
RMPG. ZULA COM. AARD. 0
Majors-American League 
THE TOPSPINNERS 
MELLON HEADS 
PHI KAPPA 
KILL SHOTS 
AEPi
THE PROF.HIT MEN
Minors-Pacific League 
CSO
SHEAR STRESS 
THE VOID 
SLURPS 
SMODNOCS 
PILAM
VOLLEYBALL
Majors-Women’s A.
CIA
MATHLETES 
ZOO CREW 
DELTA GAMMA
Majors B.
THE CLUB 
CS-1 
CS-2
THE MIRACLE WHIPS
Intermediate-Div. C 
SUPA ET AL 
NINE LIVES 
PILAM A 
TEAM RA
SCOBELL MILKMEN 
GLOBETROTTERS
CSO (B)
Intermediate-Div. D 
EULERS
MECH E., GRAD 1 
THE NET MONKEYS 
ALPHA EPSILON PI 
SEI
BUNCH O V’BALL PLRS 
KSA
Intermediate-Div. E 
DELTA UPSILON 
AFROTC 
CS-3 
SUPA 
THETA XI 
ORANGE DOTI 
REALISTIC KUMQUATS
Loss
0
2
1
1
2
1
1
3
3
Loss
0
WonLoss
70
12
12
01
01
03
WonLoss
20
20
31
23
01
01
02
02
WonLoss
30
21
00
22
12
23
02
WonLoss
30
20
2f111
0
I
3~
03
WonLoss
30
20
11
12
12
03
WonLoss
40
21
22
12
12
03
WonLoss
30
21
12
03
WonLoss
30
21
01
03
WonLoss
40
3I
31
22
13
13
04
WonLoss
40
40
22
22
13
13
04
WonLoss
40
31
31
22
13
13
04
Standings
Intermediate-Div. FWonLoss
ECE GRADS40
PHI KAPPA THETA31
PIONEERS A31
CSO22
SIX'13
ODIES13
ATO04
MINORS
“G”WonLoss
More E330
WA WA WAS IV21
Acid Rain12
The Wall03
“H”WonLoss
Pliam B21
Mech. E, Grad.II21
The Flat Tires12
DTD12
“I”WonLoss
Sig-Tau A30
AFROTC21
Smodnocs12
The Dead Cats03
“J”WonLoss
Army ROTC30
Donner 2821
What?! Dig12
Monkeypus03
“K”WonLoss
Fermat’s Crew30
SigTau-B21
Mudge Slingers-2B12
APHIO lobs03
“L”WonLoss
Bunch ‘O’ Dave’s30
Delta Upsilon21
Pinnacle12
CIA-B03
“M”WonLoss
Pioneers B22
The Extra Cellulars22
Navy ROTC Midshipmen22
“N”WonLoss
CIA-A30
Mudge Packers21
The Zoo12
The Defenders03
SOCCER 
MAJORS 
EAST DIVISIONWonLossTie
D.U.200
CLYDE GANG200
CHESGA110
GARGOYLES020
CMUtants020
WEST DIVISIONWonLossTie
REAL MELLON200
KSA101
GSIAI01
SAE110
TEAM-X020
GLOBETROT.020
INTERMEDIATE
DIVISION AWonLossTie
PI LAM201
VACANCIES201
ATO210
ME GRADS110
PIKA020
DIVISION BWonLossTie
PHI KAP200
ZOO-A110
WAWAW’S IV110
KAPPA SIG020
CIA030
MINORS
DIVISION AWinLossTie
DYNAMIC RAMS200
THETA XI100
MEAN MACHINE 100
SMODNOCS110
KDR110
SDC120
DOH. DYNASTY020
DIVISION BWinLossTie
SIG TAU200
AEPI100
DTD100
CIA TEAM110
AFROTC010
WHAT?!020
MUDGE SCHLAG.020
Correction: Kevin Helm’s name was 
omitted from last week’s x-country ar­
ticle; he placed ninth overall. Grove 
City had 53 points, not 56 as stated.

---------------------------------------------------

S
fsS ftumtA
PORTO
IM • CLUBS • VARSITY • PROFESSIONAL
u*/i,7juess... ìof**,I,frge*lp5 x>1 bt>f i ts RbLmA Lag ^B cool as cl (SJ&leE! S #10 III A ^
> >L > /s.yn*Æ
,(­c(&
'ûé she loCLSJcefazll 
mmafimt in Tech
Tartans Beat Up The Bisons
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor
There are football games you could win.
There are games you should win.
And then there are games against Bethany 
College.
For Carnegie Mellon it was a contest in 
which nothing but a big win would suffice.
To the Tartans’ credit, they delivered a 48-14 
bone-crushing of hapless Bethany at Tech 
Field, partially erasing the memory of last 
week’s 38-36 heartbreaking loss to W&J. The 
Bisons, who finished the season 0-8-1, saw 
their defenses ripped apart by CMU rushers 
and their offense shut down and shut out in the 
second half.
To the Bisons’ credit, they kept the game 
close until halftime. Tied 7-7, and then trailing 
only 21-14 with a minute to go in the half, it 
looked like Carnegie Mellon would take only 
a touchdown lead into the locker room.
But the next play deflated the Bisons like an 
ice pick into a balloon. Halfback Boomer 
Schmitt fielded the Bethany kickoff at the 
eight yard line, darted, dodged, and followed 
his blockers 92 yards downfield for a kick- 
retum touchdown. Jim Kelly’s extra-point 
made it 28-14 and out of reach. Carnegie 
Mellon’s 20 second-half points were all gravy.
Offensively, the Tartans controlled the line 
of scrimmage and blew Bethany off the ball 
the whole game. The offensive line, led by 
PHI Player of the Game Mike Colucci and 
sophomore guard Russ Hahn did an excellent 
job opening holes and providing rushing 
room. Head coach Rich Lackner agreed.
“When you get Mike Colucci, Russ Hahn 
and a fullback downfield making those great 
blocks, it’s easy to get 20 yard runs.”
One second-quarter block was especially 
productive. Facing a second down and five 
situation on the Bethany 30 yard-line, Hensel 
decided to keep the ball himself and ran around 
the left side. Preceding him was Colucci, who 
threw a key block allowing Hensel to proceed 
into the end zone, upping the score to 21-7.
Bethany’s defense, which at its stiffest re­
sembled a wet paper bag, yielded 335 rushing 
and 440 total yards. Quarterback Mike Hensel, 
who only completed 5 passes for 83 yards, net 
acareer-high 141 yards rushing including two 
touchdowns. Fullback Chris Hansen followed 
with 69 yards and another two scores.
Hensel did unleash one especially pretty pass 
to Dean Garofola. A near duplicate of his toss 
for a TD versus W&J last week, Hensel drew 
the Bison coverage in and then dumped off to 
Garofola, who was all alone in front, and 
proceeded to run 36 yards to make the score 
41-14.
The Tartan first-half defense was the only 
area of concern. Perhaps they suffered a let­
down from last week when they controlled the 
second-ranked Washington and Jefferson in 
the first half. Whatever the reason, they let 
Bethany march down the field on the Bisons 
opening possession, and surrendered another 
touchdown late in the first half. Bethany, 
which lives and usually dies by the arm of QB 
Tracey Finchum. surprised the Tartans with 
100 yards rushing in the first-half.
“I was disappointed by our first-half de­
fense,” commented coach Lackner. “We 
weren’t playing good Carnegie Mellon de­
fense in the first half.”
That changed in a hurry come the second 
half. Bethany stopped completing the short 
passes, the bread and butter of their attack, and 
lapsed into offensive silence. Bethany tried to 
shake up the attack by replacing QB Finchum 
(9-32, 87) with Jamie Hamm (5-13, 68), but 
success was elusive.
Much of the credit for Carnegie Mellon’s 
second-half success goes to the second and 
third teams. Almost all Tartans in uniform saw 
some playing time, even players listed fourth 
on the depth chart like halfback Frank Pagan- 
elli, guard Jerry Samek, and free safety John 
Riesmeyer, all freshmen. Fullback Fran Bel- 
lante, who started and played extremely well 
when Chris Hansen was injured, returned to 
action and carried the ball five times for 23
Dean Garofola had everyone beat, only the
yards.
Next week: Sunny skies, with a high possi­
bility of a Tartan blowout centered on Tech 
Field. Expect a high pressure area centered on 
the Tartan defensive line, with frequent show­
ers of passes from Mike Hensel. UAA foe 
Washington University (1-7) has had a week 
off from the frequent storms buffering their 
option offense, but the visitors from St. Louis 
should heed all weather advisories. The main 
front heading from the west is running back 
Tom Polacek, Wash U’s all-time rushing 
leader. The only cloud on the horizon is the
photo by Andy Gillespie
referee could keep up with him.
impending destruction of Tech Field, which 
will see its last action Saturday. The Tartans 
can only hope the climate is as good in the new 
Tech Field.
The Football Bboard: Bethany is 1-16-1 
over the last two seasons and have not won at 
Tech Field since 1975...Scores by Mike 
Hensel and Chris Hansen Saturday are the 
only first-quarter touchdowns the Tartan^ 
have scored this season...Game time on Satur­
day has been moved back to 12:30 pm to allow 
Washington to catch its flight back to St. 
Louis.Soccer Rises Above .500 in Finale
photo by Suvro Dalta•enior Kevin Jung dribbles the ball, he is one of many the Tartans must replace next year.
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The men’s soccer team ended its up-and- 
down season last Tuesday by crushing visiting 
St. Vincent’s College with a score of 5-1. The 
Tartans showed promise for the future and a 
strong attack that dominated the compara­
tively weaker St. Vincent’s.
The Tartans scored early in the first half. 
Senior co-captain Kevin Jung, playing his last 
game in a Tartan uniform, took the ball from 
midfield, dribbled past several defenders, and 
shot across the goal. His ground-ball kick just 
eluded the St. Vincent goalie, and Carnegie 
Mellon took a lead that they would never re­
linquish.
Justin Pizzella put the Tartans up 2-0 by 
halftime. The freshman midfielder took the 
ball straight at St. Vincent’s goal and placed it 
over the goalie’s head.
In the second half, sophomore midfielder 
Eddie Park netted the first of his two goals for 
the day. His bloop-kick from near the sideline 
tipped three times off of the goalie’s fingertips 
before it tipped in to give Carnegie Mellon a 3-
0 lead.
Sophomore forward Sean Lacey scored St. 
Vincent’s only goal, denying Tartan goalie
Glen Hoogerwerf of what would have been his 
eighth shutout of the season. Lacey took a pass 
from teammate Brian Tooney and booted the 
ball past Hoogerwerf’s dive.
But the Tartans weren’t finished. Sopho­
more defender Chuck Shvanda scored his first 
goal of the season. Shvanda’s shot hit off of a 
St. Vincent’s defender and was deflected in to 
put the Tartans ahead, 4-1.
Park recorded his second goal of the gam£ 
late in the second half. He converted on a Joe 
Schwerza pass to make the final score, 5-1.
The Tartans finished the season with a 7-6-2 
record, but despite their mediocre record, they 
had impressive wins over University of Pitts­
burgh and New York University among oth­
ers.
Now the Tartans are looking to the future 
With the loss of only three players, the Tartanf 
should have a strong foundation for next year. 
But among the graduates are co-captains Jung 
and Alan Mayr, and midfielder Alan Stein. If 
the Tartans are to contend in the President’s 
Athletic Conference or the University Athletic 
Association next season, the grads will all 
have to be replaced.
In the St. Vincent’s game, the Tartans 
continued on page 2r

---------------------------------------------------

D
The TartanIVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT « COMICS » CALENDAR » CLASSIFIEDS
Portrait Slightly Out of Focus
l'MlLP:
By MICHAEL ROSE
Assistant Diversions Editor
Ed Dixon’s Portrait has come to the Kresge 
Theatre, and there is certainly a lot to be said 
for it, or at least about it Portrait has the 
potential to be a world-class musical someday, 
but right now there are, plainly speaking, a few 
t> difficulties.
Portrait is the story of Dorian Gray, based on 
the novel The Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar 
Wilde. It is a tale of the corruption of inno­
cence, the sin of hedonism taken to its illogical 
extreme.
Mr. Dixon’s adaptation of the work brings it 
to the present day and gives us familiar char­
acters to identify with, drawn from show busi-
• ness: the corrupt agent, the jaded and manipu­
lative photographer, and the ubiquitous inno­
cent with the angel’s demeanor. In following 
Wilde, Dixon brings us archetypes of pleas- 
ure-seekers in forms we can understand easily.
The set for Portrait, designed by Cletus 
Anderson, makes a great first impression. The 
metallic Art-Deco appearance of the picture 
frame centerpiece, and its segmented mirror 
C surface - similar to the mirrors in the set for the 
Broadway show A Chorus Line - leads the au­
dience to believe that we are intended to con­
sider the theme of the show - vanity - as 
something that doesn’t only happen to other 
people.
Behind these mirrors sits the orchestra, under
the direction of Keith Lockhart. They per­
formed well, the only problem being the space 
itself rather than the orchestra. The Kresge is 
so small that the sound has very little room to 
fill out and as a result tends to be a bit rough, 
especially in the front of the theatre.
Mr. Dixon performs in his own piece as the 
photographer Henry and is beyond doubt the 
finest feature of the show. His experience as a 
performer shows in his bearing and his striking 
voice, while his eyes capture the audience 
from his first moments on the stage. When he 
tells us that people refer to him as the finest 
show business photographer in the world, he 
glances casually about him and then confides 
to the audience, “I don’t quibble.”
It is easy to believe that this man has power 
that he revels in and pleasures that most would 
shudder from. He is a sort of Broadway Dr. 
Frankenstein, creating a monster that he ap­
parently does not control. We may not under­
stand his motivations, but his whole-hearted 
enjoyment of Dorian’s corruption sends chills 
up and down the spine.
Unfortunately, his introduction is too brief 
for comfort and we are hurtled rapidly into the 
body of the show without a real understanding 
of what is behind this man. In particular, the 
collision between Henry and Dorian occurs 
too fast. We have almost no clue to events and 
we sympathize with the confused Dorian as 
Henry double-talks him onto film and into
legend.
The easy criticism of John Kozeluh’s Dorian 
is that he was typecast for the character of the 
“beautiful boy,” who picks up the nickname of 
Prince Charming. The part seems to come al­
most too naturally to Kozeluh. His strong 
voice and dashing good looks give him some­
thing of an other-worldly air that is uncomfort­
able. We have to give him credit, however, for 
grappling strongly with a difficult role. 
Dorian’s innocence and his ensuing corrup­
tion are almost equally hard to believe; 
Kozeluh puts up a good fight trying to con­
vince us, but he does not quite succeed.
Maureen, the vampy agent as played by 
Jennifer Levison, is interesting but stere­
otyped. She has a smashing number in her first 
scene called “Bad Girl” where she lyrically 
hurls herself on Dorian. No problem (in this 
show, everybody hurls themselves on Dorian) 
but, like most of the first act, it is too sudden 
and nauseatingly ingratiating.
As Maureen discovers, scaring the pants off 
of Dorian is perhaps not the best way. In a later 
scene, when a waitress is reprising “Bad Girl” 
and hurling herself, Maureen cuts her off with 
a curt “I think I’ve heard just about enough of 
that song...” We, the audience, wholeheart­
edly agree with her.
The character of Sybil, played by Susan 
Bernstein, would be more fun to watch if she 
continued on page D2Razor-rasping Shrieks From Aerosmith
By MARNI HALASA
Special to Diversions
November 5th at the Civic Arena was a 
wantonly delicious night. Aerosmith domi­
nated a willing and wanting city of Pittsburgh 
with one swift blow of raucous guitar, razor- 
rasping shrieks and rappin’-head-bangin’ 
blues. Could life ever be the same?
* Aerosmith hit the stage unpredictably and 
the audience reacted as if hit with a bucket of 
Clorox. Aerosmith’s presence had an effect of 
unifying the crowd, a highly diverse mixture 
of teenagers, young adult head-bangers, col­
lege students, 70’s prototypes, and working- 
class mankind, into one throbbing entity.
Feeling cautious at first, it was noticeable 
(although subtly) that Aerosmith was nervous. 
•The first couple of songs were tentatively 
sluggish and they weren’t totally together. 
However, all reservations were dropped after 
“Same Old Song and Dance,” in which Aeros­
mith plunged viciously into “Dude,” “Big 10- 
Inch,” and “Ragdoll,” with lead-singer Steven 
Tyler teasing the audience with his rude ges­
tures, cocky attitude, and infamous on-stage 
strut.
• Clad in virginal white, Tyler came off look­
ing like an irrepressible nun. His acrobatic 
stunts juxtaposed with guitarist Perry’s snake­
like riffs left the audience begging for more. 
Perry’s classic funked-up, steel-edged leads 
rocked “Walkin’ The Dog,” “Rats In The 
Cellar,” and “Sweet Emotion.”
Surprisingly, he did not match Joey 
Kramer’s spirited drum-solos. Kramer consis- 
^tently drummed into oblivion every time on 
every song. Equally surprising was the fact 
Tyler’s voice held its 5-range octave quite 
well. Although a bit cracked on “Draw The 
Line”, it still has kept its verve and clear-cut 
inflection throughout the years, and he had no 
trouble reaching those chaotic, lullaby- 
shrieks.
Undoubtedly, the highlight of the perform- 
'^ance took effect with the ethereal “Dream On.”
Rock Superstars Aerosmith have been making head-banging music for over 15 years
Tyler’s introductory keyboards and vocals 
enticed the crowd to sing along. In addition, 
guitarist Whitford and bassist Hamilton gave 
the song a spiritual ascendance within an un­
limited threshold. The Arena became a uni­
verse of small, disposable butane fires 
throughout this heart-felt plea.
In addition to the music, Aerosmith’s theat­
rical element fascinated the audience as well. 
Tyler’s bad boy attitude and obscene gestures, 
Kramer’s arm-and-head drum solo, and the 
stage show’s hallucinogenic rainbow of lights 
and fog satisfied all. The show concluded with 
a revved-up version of “Train Kept A Rollin',”
and a climatic “Walk This Way.”
There is no hesitation in saying the show was 
a success. Mischievous, passionate, and ob­
sessive, Aerosmith has that uncanny tendency 
to seduce all who come into its contact. With 
a career spanning 15-plus years, Aerosmith 
has defined an era for an entire generation. 
They not only have survived their drug-in­
fested ordeal, but still manage to come up with 
new musical ideas. Yet first and foremost, 
Aerosmith is all about fun, they just happened 
to become a rock ‘n’ roll legend in the process. 
Mixing the two, they claim, is the only way to 
do it.
BOOKS.........................Page D4
Douglas Adams genre switch in Dirk 
Gently’s Holistic Detective Agency
MOVIES.......................Page D9
Japanese noodle western, Tampopo, pokes 
fun at an American classic
6u’ ­KgSun 
xANK“SuSR
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Diversions Staffwriter 
Ever wondered what public 
television’s Mister Rogers is really like? 
To a little tyke, Mr. Rogers is the coolest 
dude wearing sneakers, but to us more 
mature folks, one has got to wonder if 
the guy is for real. Nobody, especially 
somebody in show business, can be that 
nice, right?
Wrong! Mister Rogers is almost ex­
actly the same off the show as when he 
is on; his close friends say that the only 
difference is that his good sense of 
humor is more apparent. In fact, Rogers 
and some of his co-workers play good 
natured jokes upon each other (some­
times they will fill his shoes or sneakers 
with paper towels, or put out a smaller 
pair).
Such things can be found out during 
the WQED/13 special, “Our Neighbor 
Fred Rogers”, airing tomorrow, Wed­
nesday, November 11 at 8 pm (re-broad­
cast Sunday, November 15 at 2 pm.) 
This show “will offer adults a look at the 
man behind “Mister Rogers” ...the his­
tory, the mystique and the real world of 
Fred Rogers.”
This hour-long documentary will look 
at Rogers' boyhood in Latrobe, PA; his 
college career at Dartmouth and then 
Rollins College (Florida;) his work at 
NBC-TV in New York and his arrival at 
the start of a new ‘educational' station,
’’’ nKjSm,jSn s,n 
nmtJJ W,cc aom Kom t 
njtccSu at,u KJ 
nAStHSun’’’
WQED/13 in 1953.
The show follows Mister Rogers 
through his famed career as a children’s 
show host. In 1953 the famous puppets 
of the Land of Make-Believe, first ap­
peared on Childrens Corner, the first 
show that Fred Rogers was on, but it 
never aired.
Mister Rogers then went to Canada to 
have another show called Mister Rogers 
on which appeared all the puppets, and 
the Land of Make Believe was created. 
Mister Rogers then came back to Pitts­
burgh to have the American version of 
the show Mister Rogers.
Finally, on February 19, 1968, Mister 
Rogers’ Neighborhood was created. 
Jazz pianist Johnny Costa (a Carnegie 
Mellon alum) became Music Director.
The show will also detail the begin­
nings of the puppets (Daniel S. Tiger, 
King Friday, X the Owl, Henrietta 
Pussycat and all the rest), as well as an­
swer the question: “Why does Mister 
Rogers wear sneakers?”
These are some of the many wonderful 
facts given in this broadcast, and one 
will have to watch this program to really 
see what a great guy Mister Rogers is in 
“true life.” This program is well worth 
the commercial-free hour to watch.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—November 10,1987
Tt“S bKo uStR [K9 8Kaoc, mKRtb1
Tyrone Taylor 
Natalie Belcon
November 
ten o'clock
4ms
> /<)*. Jili TO < flUH/Ssi
ohn Carroll 
Robin Lee Garber Esther Jesurum Ken Doyno
Friday ¡the '13th ten o'clock
•lesus and Mary Chain/Qpal to plav Graffiti
fsSnS 7uKoan ­ocS ,A TScc
By DAN BIDWA
Diversions Record Critic
Next Monday, The Jesus and Mary Chain, 
former masters of roaring-noise pop music, 
along with Opal, Kendra Smith and David 
Roback’s latest neo-psychedelia project, 
will be appearing at Graffiti.
Concert Preview:
Jesus and Mary Chain w/ 
Opal at Graffiti
The Jesus and Mary Chain’s music has 
been compared to a vacuum cleaner on full 
blast, but that was their earlier albums. 
With their latest, Darklands, the Chain has 
lost their former cloaking of noise to reveal 
their impressive pop underpinnings. The 
songs are more than able to stand on their 
own, and a bunch of tunes like “Happy 
When It Rains” and “April Skies” wouldn ’t 
sound out of place on most progressive 
radio stations with their slightly fuzzy gui­
tars and somewhat droning rhythms.
The album also seems warmer than any­
thing the Chain has done so far, with less 
echo on the vocals, making them seem a bit 
‘closer’ than before, without losing their 
unflappable sound.
This could very well be the breakthrough 
album for the Chain, one that will actually 
be bought by real people instead of just by 
the music critics and devotees of new music 
that could see the music despite the noise.
After three releases, the Chain should
have enough material to do a decent show, 
and if the new album is any indication, the 
show should be a departure from their last 
tour.
After a number of singles and one EP, 
Opal has finally released Happy Night­
mare Baby, a full-length album that goes 
way back. It sounds more like T. Rex than 
T. Rex did (well, not quite - T. Rex had a 
male vocalist). Great big chunks of wah- 
wahbly guitar are smeared all over circa 
1960’s sonic wallpaper. Kendra Smith and 
David Roback, who were partially respon­
sible for the “paisley revolution” with 
bands like the Dream Syndicate, have 
moved ahead a few years to the era of Led 
Zeppelin. Smith’s vocals never get too 
excited, but the music certainly does; songs 
like “Rocket Machine” crunch along like 
some kind of irritated perpetual motion 
machine.
Call it psychedelia filtered through Zep­
pelin if an analysis is needed. Comparisons 
are difficult, and somewhat unnecessary - 
this album rules in all nine planes of Hell, 
and should appeal to anyone who has ever 
jumped around the room flinging air guitar 
chords into all comers.
Tickets are $ 11.50 in advance and $ 12.50 
at the door. The show starts at 8:00. Legal 
age only, kiddies. The promoters are shoot­
ing themselves in the foot by having a 21- 
and-over show; the Chain doesn’t have 
much of an audience that old, so the crowd 
will probably be pretty small. But hey, you 
might get in, and wouldn’t that be nice?
­Kogs PRgSn h,cc Portrait
continued from page Dl
weren’t so predictable. The character is a 
young girl from the Midwest who has come to 
the Big City to sing for a living. She falls in 
love with Dorian, etc., etc., and so on. Even 
though the character is overly sugary-sweet, 
she does provide a welcome contrast to the 
incorrigible evil that overcomes most of the 
other players. Her torch song, “Sailing,” about 
her brother being off with the Coast Guard, 
was enjoyable, due to her spectacular voice, 
despite its saccharine side.
James, Sybil’s brother, plays a small but vital 
role in the show as he becomes the catalyst of 
Dorian's denouement. He is probably the only 
character in the show that has any part of our 
sympathy for the whole time he is on stage. His 
feature song, “Nickel Bags,” about life as a 
drug dealer, is beautifully done and adds an 
enormously realistic element to the flash and 
flair of the world of the rich and famous.
The supporting cast is excellent, keeping the 
flow of the piece and adding sorely needed 
continuity. Kudos to Choreographer Judith 
Ann Conte and Director Lee Sankowich for 
effectively putting an ensemble feel into a 
basically two-person show.
Portrait possesses some lovely and sharp 
dialogue and a few excellent, though not ex­
traordinarily memorable songs. Its main diffi­
culties lie in structure. Admittedly, the task of 
bringing The Picture of Dorian Gray to the 
musical stage cannot be an easy one. Still,
Portrait desperately needs duration cues 
within the play. During the first act, the audi­
ence is left completely in the dark regarding 
the time intervals between events, which leads 
us to see some things as foregone conclusions 
and others as incredibly premature. When 
Dorian first appears, we don’t have any idea 
where he’s coming from, and it seems that he 
doesn’t either.
It is hard to really enjoy the first act when it 
is unclear what is happening. The second act 
spans a much smaller time period, so it is easier 
to follow and has more action. It’s probably 
fair to say that by the time the powerful ending 
rolls around, Portrait has built up the strength 
of purpose it needed from the very beginning.
On a more personal level, it is very hard to 
sympathize with any of the characters in Por­
trait, with the possible exception of James. 
Although most of the characters get what they 
deserve, either the evil of the individual or the 
submission of the innocent will turn you off. 
Unfortunately, that element is, to a great ex­
tent, part of the original material.
Portrait is by any standards good entertain­
ment, and is, for the most part, enjoyable thea­
ter. But as is the lot of a workshop production, 
the roughness of the piece is evident. Some of 
the special effects of the show, although im­
pressive, just don’t convey the power of the 
original. With work, experience, and rewrites 
the piece may someday achieve greatness. 
Only time will tell.

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page D3
From Landscapes to Human Struggle at Forbes
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions 
Opening tonight at the Forbes Gallery will be 
the senior show of Christine Hoebler, Eunah 
Kim and Jo Schwalbe. Painting, drawing and 
sculpture will be represented with themes 
$ ranging from landscape to human struggle. 
Christine Hoebler will be showing paintings 
and drawings which use Pittsburgh’s steel 
mills as a source of inspiration. Hoebler is not 
interested in “sentimental characterizations”
but rather in showing the mills from a histori­
cal point of view from the area in which she 
lives. In her paintings she talks about the 
closing of the mills: their present darkness 
versus their previous vibrancy when they were 
producing. Even though Pittsburgh’s steel 
mills are a subject strong in content, Christine 
finds the “message” secondary to her interest 
in the forms, the light and “taking off on the 
surface of the paint.” She enjoys contrasting 
thick paint with thin, washing over the surface
Ü
o
fTlM -PP) l' LTDD.r
Thursday, November 12
Emmanuelle
This stunningly photographed and artistic film is the result of a French screen adaption 
of Emmanuelle Aran’s controversial book of the private lives of French diplomats and 
their wives stationed in the Far East. This stands out as one of the best in the ‘soft-core’ 
film genre. It will appeal to most open-minded audiences. “X was never like this!” 
Director: Just Jaeckin
Cast: Sylvia Kristel, Alain Cuny, Marika Green 
Showtimes: 6,8,10
Friday, November 13
Star Trek IV- The Voyage Home
The adventure continues with a perilous adventure for the crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise. 
In this chapter of the Star Trek story the entire crew is together again, propelled from the 
final frontier to the strange new world and civilization of 20th century San Francisco. This 
movie combines intelligence with breathtaking thrills. Though not considered a great 
‘Star Trek movie,’ it is considered a great all-around movie, for one and for all (and for 
Trekkies.)
Director: Leonard Nimoy
Cast: William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Saturday, November 14Outrageous Fortune
Shelley Long and Bette Midler are hilarious in this movie about two aspiring actresses 
who loathe each other but are in love with the same man. They determine to track down 
their romeo, Peter Coyote, to have him choose which one he likes best. This turns into a 
wild, cross-country chase with comedian George Carlin adding to the fun as a 60’s 
burnout.
Director: Arthur Hiller
Cast: Shelly Long, Bette Midler, Peter Coyote, George Carlin, Robert Prosky 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, November 15The Big Chill
This sweet, sharp, melancholy comedy depicts old friends who are reunited, for the first 
time since their college dissident days, at the funeral of one of their group. Seeing each 
other again makes each realize that he or she has fallen away from old ideals, old passions 
and causes. They then explore the ideals of the 60’s in the 80’s in this accomplished, 
serious comedy. These people who once believed the maxim “never trust anyone over 
thirty,” now must face that they are now in that age bracket and have become drop-ins to 
society.
Director: Lawrence Kasdan
Cast: Tom Berenger, Glenn Close, Jeff Goldblum, William Hurt, Kevin Kline 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12 
By RONALD G. REDMOND
DO YOU NEED AN INTERESTING AND STIMULATING 
CHANGE IN YOUR LIFE?
STUDY ABROAD FOR A WHILE AND GET CREDIT FOR IT!
FOR INFORMATION COME TO:
THE OFFICE FOR INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION 
410 MARGARET MORRISON, X7595
with color and then going into and building up 
the structure underneath. Since Hoebler finds 
the forms and quality of the paint inspirational 
in themselves, often her work becomes ab­
stracted to its purest form yet still retains its 
original reference point. Hoebler uses the fig­
ure when necessary and seeks objects in the 
mills that speak of labor and the human ele­
ment. For Christine, who lives above them, the 
mills are a way of life as she explains, “It’s just 
like looking out your back window and paint­
ing the tree in your yard.”
Eunah Kim will be exhibiting her paintings, 
drawings and sculpture in which “everything 
is landscape.” In her two-dimensional work 
the colors are important and should be “bright, 
pure and clean.” She enjoys the qualities and 
shapes which are found in landscape thus also 
letting line become an important element as it 
takes on a surreal quality and the images turn 
to fantasy. In addition, Kim’s sculptures are 
based on landscape and while she likes to paint 
better, she is interested in the fact that sculp­
ture is not just “frontal” and the viewer must 
“look around” her work.
Jo Schwalbe will be showing two large ce­
ramic sculptures which are her most recent 
and, she feels, her strongest. Her work has 
always been figurative but she finds herself 
moving into a representational area from her 
previously more abstract pieces. When Sch­
walbe first started working with figures she 
was interested in a general theme of human 
struggles and conflicts which individuals 
experience throughout their lives. She cites 
Rodin’s work as a major influence, 
specifically. The Gates of Hell, but remarks 
that she wanted a “more positive, hopeful 
theme” for her work. Over the summer her 
expression became specifically about her own 
personal conflict and frustration and she also 
became interested in working out the human 
anatomy more exactly. She is inspired by her 
anatomy classes and explains, “I enjoy the 
human form and find it very beautiful. It is the 
only expressive vehicle I need for my ideas.” 
While Jo is a drawing major and feels she has 
technical proficiency in that area, she is in­
spired by clay, enjoying the feeling of it, 
working through structural difficulties and 
being in “full control of shapes I want to 
create.”Diversions Staff 
Meeting
fKA,gsme Gaj — ftumtA (JJ,NS
do you write
about
people you see?
dossier is currently accepting submissions for the November issue
Submissions should be sent to dossier
c/o The Tartan 
Room 103 
Skibo
Or dropped off at The Tartan 
Room 50 
Skibo
Deadline is November 8 
For more information contact Michele Osherow 
681 8705
ÜXÏIÙ 1<?ÎP£
dossier
­ p o j f M oG fj zPj-Vsl
O

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—November 10,1987
LKogctn &Rtjni ytmSnm 0KKH ytNHn UKsSuSAm MmKubc,AS
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Diversions Staffwriter
Tangents. Author Douglas Adams loves 
going off on tangents. Given the opportunity 
he will take the reader into a complicated 
account concerning a certain kind of fish or the 
reasons behind the creation of an Electric 
Monk. Douglas Adams’ ability to consistently 
amuse with his explorations into areas re­
moved from the main plots of his novels ac­
counts for a great deal of the charm in his 
Hitchhiker’s series as well as his latest novel, 
Dirk Gently’s Holistic Detective Agency.
Dirk Gently proves that Adams has lost none 
of his wit, a point much debated after 1985’s 
shameful So Long And Thanks For All The 
Fish; However, it also proves that Adams has 
since achieved no growth as a storyteller. 
Adams’ sidelong glances remain as amusing 
as ever. Unfortunately, in this effort he serves 
us a disjointed story so full of gaping plot-
holes and inconsistencies that he almost suc­
ceeds in making reading this book an unpleas­
ant experience. This is perhaps the greatest 
disservice that Adams does himself in this 
novel. Because the reader is so consumed in 
trying to figure out what is happening in the 
central story, the amusing anecdotes Adams 
injects into his narrative often strike the reader 
as annoying digressions.
The story centers (and I use the term loosely) 
on the bizarre events in the life of a computer 
programmer who finds that one of his old 
university professors has a time machine in his 
closet, that the future of mankind on the Earth 
is being threatened by a billion year old ghost 
with a taste for Coleridge, and that his couch is 
stuck indelibly between the walls of the stair­
case leading to his apartment. Dirk Gently, the 
detective who prefers to solve mysteries by 
tracing the “interconnectedness of all things” 
rather than using fingerprint powder and a
&A &NtRSj,N OStu &CuKtR ,A msS &umn tAR TojtA,m,Sn
year of undergraduate study immersed in the 
life and culture of Florence. The program combines 
university courses with individual tutorials and lan­
guage study and, for students of the arts, work with
Italian artists. Q A R A W
For information and an application, contact: OAivui
Sarah Lawrence Colleee In Florence LAWRENCE
Box ( Mill* T C O T7Bronxville, New York 10708 LyULLLLlij
With all due regard toTV Christianity, 
have you ever seen a 
Sony that givesHoly Communion?
If TV Christianity makes you want to switch channels, come and join us this Sunday in 
Christian Fellowship and worship without commercial interruptions. The Episcopal Church
CALVARY EPISCOPAL CHURCH
Shady at Walnut 
Campus Ministries: The Rev. G. Kelly Marshall 
661-0120
Sunday Services: 8:00 and 12:15: Holy Eucharist 
10:30: Choral Liturgy 
Easy Access from Oakland via Fifth Avenue Buses
magnifying glass, does not appear until the last 
third of the book. By the time Gently makes his 
entrance and conveniently figures it all out for 
our protagonist, Adams has succeeded in 
confusing us all by continually shifting points 
of view, time, and space between characters 
who, at times, have no real reason for being 
involved in the story. The narrative merrily 
skips from one point to the other without 
caring to give the reader any true insight into 
the process by which Gently solves the mys­
tery, or what the mystery is for that matter. 
Adams seems content with scattering obscure 
clues and references throughout the novel and 
picking them up or dropping them when they 
become convenient.
Perhaps the most distressing aspect of Dirk 
Gently’s Holistic Detective Agency is the cli­
max and resolution of the central plot By the 
story’s end Adams has dropped any pretense 
of a coherent narrative. Our heroes find them­
selves inside a starship, England in the 19th 
century, and Earth during prehistory, but the 
reasons why and the connections which led 
our protagonists there are never made truly 
clear. As a result of this, the story’s “punch­
line,” a sequence involving Samuel Taylor 
Coleridge, the night he supposedly created 
“Kubla Khan” from a dream, and the true 
identity of Johannes Sebastian Bach falls en­
tirely flat, drowned in a morass of loose ends 
and badly drawn connections. The final chap­
ters of the novel read as if Adams simply got
tired of the story and hurriedly wrapped up the 
novel as best he could, leaving many of his 
characters and conflicts unresolved.
For all of its flaws, Dirk Gently’s Holistic 
Detective Agency is not without its charms, 
and if one is willing to accept the inconsisten­
cies in the story, it makes entertaining, if 
confusing, reading. Adams is able to inject 
enough of his trademark snappy dialogue, 
humorous side stories and bizarre analogies, 
such as describing a man’s voice as “similar to 
the sound made by a fish barking,” to keep a 
light atmosphere in the proceedings. How­
ever, it is important to keep in mind that in 
order to best understand the story, a base 
knowledge of the Apple Macintosh and 
Samuel Taylor Coleridge is required.
At the novel’s end, Adams promises a se­
quel. If he plans to rope in his audience by 
clearing up all of the plot holes in his first Dirk 
Gently story in a second, high-priced hardback 
tome, then he should be forced to listen to 
twenty-four hours of continuous Vogon po­
etry.
Dirk Gently is a promising character, but he 
deserves a story all his own, not a supporting 
role like the one he is given in this novel. If 
Adams hopes to write a real Dirk Gently story 
he should learn from the mistakes made in this 
effort: if he expects his readers to trace the 
“complete interconnectedness of things,” then 
he had better provide his audience with things 
that can be coherently interconnected.
L,“Sun,KAn’’’’
the ultimate source of entertainment
FREE SCREENING
MAD AS IN ANGR/ 
OR IIIST (IAIN...NlfTS
BARBRA STREISAND RICHARD DREYFUSS "NUTS" MAUREEN STAPLETON ELI VftLACH 
ROBERT WEBBER JAMES UTMORE „ KARL MALDEN ‘; BARBRA STREISAND 
..SHYLEWN ANDRZEJBARTKDW1AK sTER SCHWARTZ CIS CORMAN 
TOM TO —;T0M TO . DARFM. PONICSAN, ALVN SARGENl
. BARBRA STREISAND • ; MARI RITT ^RESTRICTED¦ait «/ MfoiHW* »ccww*»
CMU STUDENTS WELCOME
8:30 pm, Monday, November 16. 
David Lawrence Auditorium 
on Pitt Campus 
(located on Forbes Ave. next to Hillman Library)First Come First Served Basis
SPONSORED BY
O

---------------------------------------------------

Tarrt nNewsNEdiPIP PROMISE "bOOC?FAITH EFFORT5 TO IMPROVE REAPABILITYAT THIS SIZE." M&WIN6 . WHAT?
Funded by 
Student DormBtory CouncBl
FAILURE- PEFEAT... P/PNr LIFE PERMANENTLY THEY STAUEP AT THROW US PRE-SHRUNK ANY CON- PROPORTIONS... CE55I0NARY \ BONEV
v LISTEN, EVERYBOPY.. THE STRIKE'S OVER..ear nNawaoA 
Seda peep3» WOUNPS THAT~y Neep Nafr&slttt
EVEN IF YOU ALL PIP &€HAVe LIKE A MOB OF RAPICAL, SFR6AP- WE-WEALTH LABOR LOONS, WE ARE ALL tkv STILL ONefl / VERYfj W+ IMPORTANT A THINO:
FAMILY
MILO. ,P0 you THINK 7HAT THE REPLACE- U'L MEHT PENGUIN OIL 16PURING THE FUNT ?STRIKE PIP fl C'MON...BETTER JOB \THAN ME * f V
I'VE HEARP THAT HE WAS VERY EFFECTIVE IN THE ROLE...
'SUCKS* BUT THAT'S GOOP/
He IS veRY POLITICALLY ASTUTE, ISN'T HE TYOU'RE MUCH BETTER LOOKING.
HEY, )YOU GUYS / THE ''IMPULSIVE P/SPLAY OF SUPPEN LABOR VIOLENCE BROUGHT ON BY UNPER- STANPABLY 5TRA/NEP EMOTIONS WON T 06 NCCertMY.?
OH,MlY CfOSH we NeveR ncri The 
Es&es peeeNseCOMMITTEE THAT THE STRIKE IS OVER /
I'M NOT(MHO BACK lOOOVNClNtr
AR SS0
rnr?rr/ 
/KK'1 ¡WAS WONPERING, UH... I THOUGHT YOU STILL MIGHT BEHIRING... UH...
OH,
OOOP MORNING.TM ONe OF THe FORMBRLY BMPLOYeP NFL REPLACEMENT PLAYERS...
THESTRIKE'SOVER.
faH I SURE UK6 PEM SORORITY GIRLS WITH PA LITTLErvoses- m 
’’’8Z se
AHEMAHEM

---------------------------------------------------

By Danny FahsZ h> ÀÀ*?\Mcwr wudi'fatievi, \)o\- 3 
ao\r TÏu^ fetter /fr ¿Sfate of ^tcUv^ plehi Wis [avoyen; t^nf him - from 1Ü dô^c* 04 k?co fyrr\orro*)- ^ ^
IohatV^bJ 
tUudenFoD a
of I a« THfM! ^'V
PÜMS AR0 osep >^SHAKespeARe/ Sb‘ l\ LE&tS CARROLL![ “S“S' Sb LNNHL T\Z£TCA Z7V Y/^C
s ---------------\y\rn§ePU94/s \ ) u desnNv mm) l/J^^He ****£<f / ^Smrfc^oT£ MOCOm WfcSk yooNe i
v Uirai PoMe" /IJ^ÆRr )\ \ru J
OH, BOY! I CANJ'T CÒAIT fbf?
this wear's snsip/ Ports / 
>Chew>gx i'm tiRap of 7 
THAT /4R7SY STÜFF OP J 
The ¿-AST Feu) coeEKs' ^
PoM&
Look At TH<s 
0-0CARP POST.
f » PoM'rCAl^ I Ve tavcbm 
THeM ^¿¿.
HABlAr, ACTÜAlD'Jl |F&M6f Er])F5 -tóT*> ¿SMAv\y PUNS THIS i 6OE0K. V
eoc KJ t *KHS CKKH /
,HoM AôoOT CHARACTERS
Itsm-PAC-riisiG-
tpiTH THeARnST^VÔ4 4ËI
THe poittiT is, we Neep To veVeuDP A BXoAPe/R Qeity vocabulary's^^.
ISHoOLt> TAK& THIS EATR tTR.P Ofe CòHoCANl'TEveNj oe tic ue Are^PRoPÊRL-Y?? »
AKiy ID5AS H ocò To START?.
(By<Bo6ye,nJUKy“bmh
M<9 m rr's'm? Lcvrm- 
G&wuss Rvute*.***,f
you l+AD A: Ngv*//£, \ \ = 
M/gTA BUTVLPiCHir--iVV I I É>ftëxAM fcigjg&p >- (V^
m<- "ïrm /
w<9- DOU*T 'tiU&JMMYt
X /Ac^l 5imu£AT6 fTO' 
IT5TM(5 £J5Dj MI«OCOD/M^ ANA<-0t> I^TMfc^T
gR.15
DAW — hŸ WATZH- tabou8 tbNm KMoo7f8K:H
BnoS THAT erR N-M05 
ClRCVljRV. YOU SHOUf) 
GGT A C-MOS U/A1tff,
pN&S dESn 86THëüfT&f 8&MMPM U6
1H SORRY BdT RLN THtr
QüART 2 P(E(-20(=L£CT&1(1 MeCrtA^tsM n+ATU$&> A
fu W&M p/t u6"J OFK6y­K”eKA bvY uMqo2 vmucey... Ho*eJ3 Ab8” ,
WWun tL’&(N *E**r SHotertAjc^ r>Æ s«j/tFsy y Mt8J o”“ kiKoj ( veBBD "J , ytto M oK» pTp- 77( )tNbbs,^ Rt(y bKKM[8—C 
Kh «4-KuW!B’ 
ìmoRì-O.. -
p, ,ppJK KJ um“pb \jflh.ceyj steer&g. \ r. 
J«>r i>o/s»*r f,r /*jI Z”|t"— T(Mf 6• 
’\KmTJu‘Bp[m p4,,g * b
MK 5B“006—S"1 NPhf u‘B<
»,FCmm»KK,6 TK,&’MmM &&F( 6K/(,‘ fK­ -nBMv] 5 ­8v6( “y
^iîomiSÇ u>CrH - reçu7KB&K!5?“‘*’ yy6y6*
\JHAT» *JA>f FoK A 
mttH fN*K( N»»p4NuNp" fm‘ kMu,hf? 
f?$ f»%N ”\uK”» *
b,NSnAndeSCUt
/3ofjPP2 3­M-”.M“5 » cM^
5«^>rç five -f i^kf 
weidl Iike^>qf»lc3'«eJKu cKn%WSS), BAa
« brief recap of evi*H +o -h-y3«f +t>e 5+r<p
bacK »»> »+*s
fna^erMen
OKAY., k
Fned •‘tj i I
foM^Ut dlu Arvi f|
(l& ,cm)[, l
he,v'mLBK u“,3A 
Due
6n8|y« i ,8 eR,u 
*t fiuSStq, c 
B8,’ eB vGK
Freddy
li~ ***ts tU&\ ^a od K^Vo< real i2
»TN)Bk7U$‘uW»0 x*" 
JN1Kp KuK»ubnc 
,J x/"‘ JouKuS %j,
‘///e so,,mm» "Kok/c t
ByKA "uJ \g,,unS —&JS\lorv\gr,
cfz?>
I

---------------------------------------------------

- b citeivrb 7 N)o ! XW lon^vow
J JU6^ Tte UW£ ¿¡owiyig *|( ¿{¿mirom XVe iee^ ae#iflea vibeS"~vr Flemm^ ^ (l^ ^
f |*.m wAl ;* "fU cMs*DM KiÖOA ---------
Üd "TWe, w<m, nex-l- 'te kl* /9 £>\Zcr 4© ^TIvjc^ ^^. i t YOvis
buckU
Inkspots
kPf, Saw baby.Auo—$BWOIA/1 'These. S&juined
bell böforvts wusf- be -fi'ftj 
IW les. u)i'd£ efo^dc 
pörvipaa/ouK y/,
0b )oum MstW
ZoSjJenkins
RsEiMHpS (TCVO 0DW6/; \
fc
5b
" FbtvH^
. FU^l *
f pißtfW 
WRßJAB
H£&5
(,X’
2AX
AND I WANNf* t<MoW VlRERE MyF 
WOMEVuENT 1,W,f1
By Jim Vorhees
By Doug Lamperski
BO’’
1 M<>
& ducirapz rs\an 
sed H\e alpi^b^f 
' foirv» u>t\ich wadz. 
¦ f'iqn ci/tfn mönc 1. Ductal? rvictKV 
qunched q na/ce'SS«3( ain<rf
p fUe rc. ...
ef'.+M'Mw‘ealiijeöt
»*i *uP1 r\ofiti*»g 
Xin^ b<s*iw|
C. T*Vlr\ I:®wfci <M*al;e fiknon &U\o *«*& (Viorv
.4V^a^e‘,(oojc ^c,ci-
Wake
’ ßui; HTL ta Lbo
IWSANHfY *f DucKgt ;bBu‘ JmK» kmmusNJSn en BUSCH( cc-mes...
» u»-&p§JS if Q'KW 'H^V ftate "^^c ^Veh
Sw /i/vlM »¦ /Icacfc of. Wft’di I ih\ *hj-[&JmT-eB6TJJf
¿1 *re<rf"<l«M -k *“ 
alifc.' ¡k <"
(X Of&A
-Wbe ,^uCh
UunnO (iwA^
we, sUoi\\A cv^dcc5£>«owve^ ,[n_— Ku €u 
imnn1'
HÄirtk u^t $^ld(
Sfx^l iwrfU u/Ut u^e^of. ¦fi^npi */a> ou1-
fJvene i-5VtC5.ITtus sUoaW J«S“K
ped3ic fö -fid«dt*** Wlirk^/ess itäyfe&i.Wazfi/ 
|H*hs to yfaf«*»wchy
¦ |Mw»Q?UeP5t45 Frr^iiic
*e*+
I

---------------------------------------------------

WUUULJ
££l HÖQÖI ???OB UI3UD I QUO ? 
£ ££££ IDHHOQ 
£ ??0
? saatDQ ?? aaciaUÜU (JEStlaaaaaaaauLJ'j'JLia?aaaa
By Craig Schlechter
0WnoS Nyd &noS EecInmS mm! &noS äooi/m/3fÌHAvJ PIRECr CONTROL^ OVER EVERY COMPUTER ON \ &aPNCrMY .?cP uQp aTN?vCV TO S/ALWl^El I CAN RUbluQ/Dy BXDDRR(<RM secuRiri.. /
\ßf£ti WIR NEW5PflP0?J y 
v
PIYsl Ms f d&sEnaH j/WLL .r^ 
You HEfiN, iou'ftE CONFESSING 
lTO RIGGING THE COMPUTERS 
J/^ON CAMPUSpy--------""
B -&mca ooiE much dewao V than THAT, My
IMMer8
Fs!Lvno 3JfPAR Ties... 
nate pur/» id 3KUU FQii uml*£*R£R SHIP \*rn ptfir ^Mftjr. /
Op­q .L,BfuJbk. B
CkG Derre&E LvFH
rumoMUP-
30* 795
By John Tafe
£*Cu££ /ne-jdo 
you come, hßji
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8705
44 hKujtm,KA 11 ?-stm”n ——— JKu45 6KuA,Agne JKu nsKum jS1?46 6,nn yKuSA 12————R,S48 ­,“Su mK msS MS,AS 13 8tum KJ &’L’51 0uKKH 19 ySg KuAtjSAm54 ­SnmtoutAm KJJSu— 21 hKKmCtcc aKn,m,KA
,Ag (2 WRn’3 24 &AR56 ft* 6tstc n,mS 25 0Kgtum uKcSe Mtj57 MtmouRtb A,gsm ———
naSN,tcn 26 LomNs CcKKj58 LSnSu“S 28 ft“SuA59 LK RSmSNm,“S WKuH 29 TKonS WtujSu60 8uK ————— (2 WRn’361 UKcKA,nm -,cc,tje 30 6,AAStaKc,n noCouC
tAR Jtj,cb 31 ljaSum,ASAm62 &AgcK—Mt9KA nct“S 35 LSmSNm,“S 6,HS ——36 [KmSn JKu
DOWN 37 To see: SP-40 &n ——— *oAHbtuR1 8K,AmSR uSjtuH RKg2 'tom,Ntc Nub 41 6tA Ku taS3 LSau,“S KJ 43 (s,K N,mb KA ytHS
ASNSnn,m,Sn Pu,S4 6KuS j,AonNocS 44 MsKom KJ R,nNK“Sub5 7Km oa 47 ­t,An stuR6 ­SNconSn 48 UKou,Su ktCCuB37 xAonotc ns,a— 49 8uSJ,9 JKu coAg
NKjjtAR (3 WRn’3 50 y,mmSu jSjCSu8 xa oAm,c (2 WRn’3 51 ?8SmSu 8tA? a,utmS9 fu,gKAKjSmub 52 ——— gK Cutgs
tCCuS“,tm,KA 53 MmKub10 PouKaStA mKou,nm 55 'taKcSKAe JKu KAS 
jSNNt ktCCu’3
h,ns,Ag ASSR 
UKRS WKuR JKu msS 
cSmmSu ?&? ka,’3 
0coS KJ CtnSCtcc 
M,gs WKuRn 
Mm,u oa
P“Su tAR ———
ytu,tm 
h,cj,Ag n,mS (2 WRn’3
&cKAS (2 WRn’3
8tum KJ f'f 
8St—a,NH,Ag 
jtNs,ASn
LKg nsKW ,A,m,tcn 
6un’ 8SScin atumASu 
-u,mSu 6,NHSbe tAR 
Jtj,cb
MKoAR aKnn,Ccb jtRS 
Cb 7tuJ,ScR 
MStaKum AStu 
f,*otAt 
6,nn 6tN7utW 
8tum KJ 0Kgtum 
J,cj m,mcS (2 WRn’3 
?? msS nStnKA’’’? 
L,nsStumSASR 
UKAmSAm KJ nKjS 
sojKu CKKHn 
ytnm,Ag t nsKum 
m,jS
I+s a VìcìooS 
One /<f.
IFtaggtht Mxü Mr* (Gwurdl
fsSnS tuS msS tAnWSun mK 
ltn, WSSH”n aoYYcS’
USELESS INVENTION è 6 
THE'ALARM CLOCK"

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page D9
Baroque Society:
6on,Nin ­SNuStm,KA 8ctbn -,ms [Su“S
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffwriter 
In the suitably austere surroundings of 
Synod Hall in St. Paul’s Cathedral, Music’s 
Recreation, the ensemble in residence of The 
Renaissance and Baroque Society of Pitts­
burgh, presented an authentic and refreshing 
performance of the music of the Baroque era.
Henry Purcell’s Suite From “King Arthur” 
was the opening selection for the evening. 
- “King Arthur” was conceived as a semi-opera 
in the late 1600’s. The performance of “King 
Arthur” by Music’s Recreation flourished 
despite some coordination problems between 
the violins. The harpsichord was flawless 
throughout the numerous short musical pieces 
,. of the opera. One of these short pieces, the 
Symphony “Shepherd, Shepherd, Leave De­
coying,” was particularly impressive due to 
the recorders’ fresh and clean rendition.
The program continued with two unusual 
pieces by Tobias Hume, an English composer 
whose lifelong profession was that of a soldier
rather than a musician. These pieces are un­
usual because they are performed by two viols, 
a rarely heard instrument. The viol players of 
Music’s Recreation performed Hume’s two 
pieces with verve and technical ease.
William Babell’s Concerto VI in F Major for 
alto recorders highlighted the first half of the 
program. This piece, one of the few ever writ­
ten for two recorders, gave John Babell and 
Louise Carslake the opportunity to demon­
strate their technical and interpretative skills 
and their stunningly clear tones.
The second half of the concert featured John 
Tyson’s performance of Three Pieces for the 
“English Flute.” (The flute, in the baroque era, 
meaning the recorder.) Tyson’s performance 
was nothing less than superb. He was particu­
larly impressive in his bewitching interpreta­
tion of Henry Purcell’s Prelude. In this selec­
tion, the ensemble was at its unified best with 
strings, recorders, and harpsichord all giving a 
remarkable performance and bringing the 
concert to a brilliant close.
6SccSANtja mK ­KNH &uSAt
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor 
This Thursday the Civic Arena will be rock­
ing to the sounds of John Cougar Mellencamp.
At the start of his career, Mellencamp was 
given the name Johnny Cougar by his first 
American agent, Tony DeFries, of the Main- 
Man record company in an attempt to make 
151 him more recognizable. But, after achieving 
the recognition he sought, Mellencamp re­
verted to his given name.
Mellencamp is touring to promote his new 
album The Lonesome Jubilee. The first single 
released from the album, “Paper in Fire,” is 
about “dreams burned up like paper in fire” 
and is currently climbing the pop charts. 
Mellencamp had his first hit with the album 
^American Fool in 1982. Two singles, “Hurts 
so Good” and “Jack and Diane” soared to the
top of the record charts placing at numbers one 
and five simultaneously; the first time in ten 
years one artist had two songs in the top five. 
That same year, Mellencamp won a Grammy 
for Best Male Rock Performance and an 
American Music Award for Best Pop Male.
Mellencamp’s next chart-topper came with 
the album Scarecrow. “Rain on the Scare­
crow,” “R-O-C-K in the USA,” “Rumble 
Seat,” “Lonely Ole Night,” and “Smalltown” 
all reached the top ten from Scarecrow. This 
album ties together the themes hinted at in 
Mellencamp’s previous albums: it tells the 
story of the plight of the farmer, the history of 
rock and roll, and the story of life in a small 
town. The songs are from the heartland, writ­
ten by a “smalltown” boy. They paint a poign­
ant picture of Southern Indiana, 
Mellencamp’s home.
Farm No. 1770
SENStNá TWtf SHELDON MIGHT HAVE A SU6HT EDGE IN THE. MARKET, BIFF DECIDES TO BUY A ZENITH PERSONAL ODMPOTtR ..
Discover how Sheldon—the Computer Nerd—gets the 
big bucks.Why does a Computer Nerd like 
Sheldon end up getting all the job offers? Find out from your Zenith
The Zenith Data Systems Z-183 Laptop PC
• Dazzling back-lit LCD 
screen for crisp text 
and great readability
• Runs virtually ail PC- 
compatible software
• 10,5MB Hard Disk 
with single 3Vi” Floppy 
Drive
• 640K RAM
• MS-DOS
• A battery life longer 
than most competing
hard disk laptops 
Even a built-in handle
Data Systems Campus Contact. And ask about the special offer below. Sheldon says it’s definitely 
executive material!Here’s the Sheldon Special!
• Perfect for taking 
notes, writing 
papers and creat­
ing graphics on
thp SDOt^
• If dual 3V4' 720K 
floppy drives meet 
your storage needs, 
ask about the Z-181 
Laptop PC.
Z-183 Laptop PCsuggested retail pnce:
Special Student Price:B.eIIIVV
Visit your nearby Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact today: Heath/Zenith Computer &
Electronics 
3482 William Penn Highway 
Pittsburgh, PA 15235 
412/824-3564
Sharon Castle
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON * 215/527-2950Ask about how you can qualify for easy monthly payments with a Zenith Data Systems Credit Card!
¦M/THdata systems
Special pnctntf ofler good only on purchases through Zenith Contact(i) listed above by students, faculty and »tall fvtheir own use No other discounts apply Limit one personal computer and one monitor per individual n any 12 month penod Prices auqect to change without noUce ___________C1387. Zelth Data System.
Noodle Fu in Tampopo
By JOHN GINSBURG
Diversions Staffwriter 
Goro stepped down from his truck and 
walked into the shop, rain dripping from his 
cowboy hat, with his comrade Gun by his 
side. Tampopo was keeping herself busy 
behind the counter.
A drunken Piskin (the bad guy) was tell­
ing Tampopo to sell the place to him. She 
was refusing.
“Shut up. I’m trying to eat my noodles,” 
said Goro.
That’s right, noodles. Japanese director 
Juzo Itami’s Tampopo, a witty satire of the 
classic American western Shane, explores 
the life of a noodle vendor who is facing 
stiff competition from vendors in her area.
After first getting in a fight with Piskin 
and his boys, Goro decides to help Tam­
popo improve her noodle business. You 
see, Goro, a truck driver, also happens to be 
a gourmet noodle chef. So, they set off to 
find the perfect noodle recipe.
Itami smoothly runs his film from the 
main plot into various little skits about food 
and smoothly comes back to Tampopo. 
One recurring skit is a guy and a girl who 
explore all regions of food sex. In one scene 
they take an egg yolk and pass it back and 
forth between their mouths until the girl 
gets too excited and bites the yolk, causing 
major Egg Fu.
Later, an old lady goes into a supermarket 
at midnight and begins squeezing a peach. 
She ends up making a mess and runs around 
the whole store squeezing things like 
cheese and bread while the store manager 
chases after her.
Meanwhile, pTnT has used his noodle 
connections to get a noodle master to help 
Tampopo. This master, by the way, has 
been living on the streets with a group of 
vagabonds who are all food experts in one 
way or another. Why are they on the 
streets? We don’t know, but little strange 
things like this will keep you laughing 
throughout the movie.
Anyway, while in another noodle restau­
rant, Tampopo, Gun, and Goro save an old 
rich man from choking on his food. In 
return, he gives them his cook to also help 
Tampopo.
Then Piskin, who turns out to be an inte­
rior decorator, decides to become good and 
fix up Tampopo’s shop. So, with the awe­
some noodle team of Goro, Gun, Piskin, 
the Master, and the rich man’s chef, Tam­
popo goes all over the city finding the 
perfect noodle, the perfect soup, and the 
perfect everything that goes into noodle 
making, to create (what else) the perfect 
noodle stand. The competitors are left in 
the dust and Goro and Gun drive out into 
the sunset.
Sounds pretty funny, but wait-there’s 
more. The man who loves food and sex gets 
shot and dies in the arms of his girlfriend. 
His last words are a story about wild boars 
who only eat yams. When these boars’ 
insides are opened, one can have yam sau­
sage. “I would have loved to eat them with 
you,” he says.
If you love food and you love satire, go see 
Tampopo. It plays at the Fulton Theatre 
downtown until the 25th. Call 471-9701 
for showtimes.
P“Sub hu,RtbCOLLEGE
H NIGHT o
n ATTENTION 18 — 20 YEAR OLDS!
HOT MUSIC and DANCING TILL 2 AM L((­M (8P' &f I 86
I I I
- a
- O -m O m
-°6- -go-
- 0= • ¦
3 5-l M g — &L6lMMl(' dw’rr klL ­P§xl­PL3 *
” CO it “ MUST BE 21 FOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
h
I I I
DRESS JEANS PERMITTED
Fulton Building • Sixth Street • 281-0349
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh....................................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection............................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-AW................................................................................................. 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

U&­'P7lP 6Pyy('
S
00 0,
AIRBAND
w/ emcee Sky Sands 
Saturday, Nov. 14 
8 pm Ballroom
HUNTER THOMPSON
quintessential outlaw journalist 
Tuesday, Nov. 17 
8 pm Ballroom
11th HOUR
progressive band 
Friday, Nov. 20 
8 pm Wherrett Room
ALEX COLE
comedian 
Saturday, Nov. 21 
8 pm Ballroom
funded by activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

November 10,1987—The Tartan—Page Dll
&AAKoANSjSAmn
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
*for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Friday, December
4. Students who wish to meet with the presi­
dent should telephone his secretary at 268- 
2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns and help 
resolve problems. Days and times available 
for appointments are at the Skibo Information 
rdesk @x2107 between 9 am- 5 pm. 
Interested in Communications? Like to 
hear yourself talk? Broadcasting positions are 
available for WRCT News. Call x2883 for 
more information.
George Cruikshank, Caricaturist and Illus­
trator. Collection of Thomas J. Michalak. 
Exhibit in Fine Book Room, Hunt Library, 4th 
floor. 1:30 - 4:30, through January 15.
I t Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito­
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CM’s Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Mouton Rothchild Paintings for the Labels.
An exhibition of the artwork by such great 
(^contemporary artists as Chagall, Klee and 
Braque that was commissioned by the Baron 
Philippe de Rothchild in the years following 
World War II for the Mouton Rothchild labels 
of his Chateau Mouton. Hunt Institute, 5th 
floor: through December 18.
Portrait, by Ed Dixon. A new musical work 
in progress based on Oscar Wilde’s “The 
Portrait of Dorian Gray.” 8 pm, November 10- 
B 14; 2 pm, November 14.
The Cardinal Wright Oratory Choir is 
looking for young men and women to sing at 
the Solemn Liturgies celebrated in Heinz 
Chapel at noon each Sunday. Rehearsals are 8 
pm on Thursday evenings at The Oratory, 
4040 Bigelow Boulevard. For more informa­
tion call 655-2169.
0,w...
Two Pregnancy Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran)
M2
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Women’sHealthServices^
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 
300 Fulton Building 
Pittsburgh, Rft 15222 
(412) 562-1900
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and 
instructions. Confidential counseling available.
KO*4P
Looking for 
an exciting and challenging 
career? Where 
each day is different? Many 
Air Force people have such a career as Pilots 
and Navigators. 
Maybe you can join them Find 
out if you qualify. Contact your 
Air Force recruiter 
today Call
Capt Larry Coccia 
412-667-7315 Colact
__AIR-k ,
A site-specific installation by Larry Cress- 
man, created to use the entire gallery space. 
Hewlett Gallery, CFA, 1st floor. Through 
December 10. Gallery Hours are: 11 am - 4 
pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, 
Sunday.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus­
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa­
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
First Light. Through November 17. 2 pm, 
Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Uctnn,J,SRn
Jobs/Wanted
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for home­
workers to perform mail services. Incentive 
programs available. For information send large 
self addressed stamped envelope to U.S.A., 
24307 Magic Mtn. Pkwy., Suite #306, Valencia, 
CA 91355.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT OFFICE
40 jobs still available to all CMU students, both 
work-study and non work-study eligible. • Cleri­
cal • Programming • Word Processing. Pick up a 
Job Directory in the Financial Aid Office, Warner 
Hall. Job Assistance interviews available. Call 
X2068.
PART TIME-HOME MAILING PROGRAM! 
Excellent income! Details, send self-addressed, 
stamped envelope. WEST, Box 5877, Hillside, 
NJ 07205.
TYPISTS—Hundreds weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066.
Student representative needed to market Spring 
Break trips to Florida. Call Leisure Time Tours, 
1-612-784-2287.
ATTENTION: CARNEGIE MELLON UN 
DERGRADUATE STUDENTS SEEKING ON- 
CAMPUS JOBS. LOCATION: Child Care Cen­
ter- Morewood Gardens Basement. Five Student 
Assistants are needed to assist with pre-school 
teachers with children 2 1/2 years old through 
kindergarten with daily activities and routines. 
Experience with young children preferred. $3.50
- $4.00. Contact: Marsha Poster or Vivian or Patty 
@ ext. 2149. WORK-STUDY ONLY.
FOR SALE BY OWNER: Sq. Hill, at edge of 
Schenley Park. Beautiful, modem, spacious 
3BR, 2 Bath, central A/C., fully carpeted, out­
standing closet space, 2 porches, basement 
laundry, integral 2-car garage, garden, car­
riage house. Phone 521-0179.
Mise
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Paper- 
mart - One stop party shopping. Halloween, 
X-mas, New Year’s, and much more. Over 
10,000 square feet of party. Party favors, 
decorations, and a wide variety of novelties. 
Close to campus - Morewood Avenue at 
Baum. 681-8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! 
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll Free 
(800)351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD.
NEED A CAR? New or used, w/or w/o acces­
sories. Call Peggy Eshelman, 578-8444.
Services
Housing
Bloomfield Area- 3-room apartment, newly 
modeled, walking distance to Carnegie Mellon, 
close to transportation and shopping- 687-5858 
(days).
Typing/Writing Services - Term papers, dis­
sertations, thesis, resumes. Spelling & gram­
mar included. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 
486-8577.
MTS 24-hour Typing/Word Processing (Spe­
cializes in last minute work) Same day Resume 
service. Typewriter rental available short/long 
term leases. 371-3657.
TYPING. Manuscripts, thesis, resumes, etc. 
professional quality. Pick up and delivery 
available, call Chris 681-5292.
Get the latest haircut FREE. Shadyside 
Salon call 682-4063.
m([

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—November 10,1987
P“SAmn
10 f|SnRtb
Movies
Khartoum, starring Charlton Heston, Lau­
rence Olivier, Ralph Richardson and Alexan­
der Knox. Historical epic about British Gen­
eral Gordon and his defeat at Khartoum in 
1833. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:45 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Dr. L. D. Doraiswamy, National 
Chemical Laboratory, Pune, India, speaks on 
“Analysis of Gas-Solid Reactions in the Pres­
ence of Inert Solids” at 11 am in DH 1112. 
Coffee and pastries served at 10:45 in Confer­
ence Room DH 1102.
Student Senate Lecture. Dr. Chelva Kumar 
speaks on “Is Terrorism the Only Alterna­
tive?” at 4:30 pm in Gregg Hall.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De­
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
11 -SRASnRtb
Movies
Down by Law, starring John Lurie, Tom 
Waits and Roberto Benigni. Another gem 
from Jarmusch about a pimp and an unem-
ployed disc jockey who break out of prison 
with an Italian tourist. Songs by Tom Waits. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Lecture.
C. D. Wright, poet, speaks at 8 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, BH.
Music
Soviet Violinist Viktoria Mullova Returns to 
Pittsburgh. The concert takes place at 8 pm in 
the Morris Kaufmann Auditorium, 315 S. 
Bellefield Ave., Oakland. For tickets call the 
Y Music Society of the Jewish Community 
Center at 521-8099.
Special Events
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Spanish Language 
table at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining 
Hall.
12 fsounRtb
Movies
Niagara, starring Marilyn Monroe, Joseph 
Cotten and Jean Peters. Well-acted film about 
a wife trying to kill her husband on their 
honeymoon. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Emmanuelle, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $ 1.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Department sponsors a German Language 
Table at 11 >30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
.2 hu”Rtb
Movies
La Bamba, starring Esai Morales, Rosana 
DeSoto and Elizabeth Pena. Strong film about 
the singer Richie Valens, whose life was tragi­
cally cut short in a plane crash. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Star Trek IV, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Department of Psychology Colloquium.
Dr. Robert Sternberg, Yale University, speaks 
on “Expertise and Knowledge Acquisition” at 
1 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH. Coffee is 
served before the lecture in the Psychology 
Lounge, BH 336-D.
Academic Computing Seminar. Robert
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella­
neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to 
Campus Calendar / University Relations / 
Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Send it by campus mail to the above 
address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The 
house between DU and ATO.)
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the
Cavalier speaks on “Interactive Multimedia 
Environments”. Introduction to CDEC’s 
work in interactive multimedia environments, 
demonstration of videodisc technology ani 
description of Carnegie Mellon’s Visual 
Workstation; at 3:30 pm in the Adamson 
Wing, BH.
American Politics and Society Colloquium.
Professor Samuel P. Hays, Distinguished 
Service Professor of History, University of 
Pittsburgh, speaks on “British and American 
Environmental Policy in Comparative Per­
spective” at 3 pm in PH 223D. 1
.4 MtmouRtb
Movies
The Lost Boys, starring Corey Feldman, Jami 
Gertz, Keifer Sutherland, Edward Herrmann 
and Barnard Hughes. Pretty crazy stuff in this 
movie about young vampires at a seaside 
community. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Outrageous Fortune, sponsored by SDC 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.*
Sports
Football. Home game against Washington 
University, 1:30 pm.
.w MoARtb
Movies
Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?, starring 
Tony Randell, Jayne Mansfield, Joan Blondell 
and Betsy Drake. Hilarious satire on 1950’s 
morals, TV, sex, and advertising. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95. t 
The Big Chill, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
.E 6KARtb
Movies
The Buddy Holly Story, starring Gary Busey, 
Charles Martin Smith and Don Stroud. Excel­
lent performance by Busey in this strong film 
bio of Buddy Holly’s life. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
<Lectures
Unified Theories of Cognition Lecture.
Professor Allen Newell, Carnegie Mellon, 
speaks on “Immediate Behavior”, at 8:30 pm 
in DH 2210.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
person submitting the entry; this information will 
be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy . 
or validity of any Event listing. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes­
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
E J D B
The time is coming!
Shirley 6. K.A.T. Surprise Thurs­
day. 12:15 am (after midnight)
“No, she’s a nice girl.”
- Guess Who?
To all students - 
We challenge anyone to beat 
us at intramural darts. 
-Lethal Weapons 
Don, Mark, and Rob - 
Happy Halloween! 
The FBI
Mary -
Ready for the folk dancing? 
The next one should be 
BELLY DANCE. Say hi to 
Linda.
-W. ZHONG Y.
To Jammie -
I may retract my claws if we 
find the right cave in the 
forest.
-Standing Bear
To Gerard and Kevin - 
Remember, parts is parts.
- Grant
Al -
Please meet me in the Fine and 
Rare Books Room Saturday 
Night. I miss you.
-Melanie
SHERRI BABY 
Soon!
-ALWAYS
When Long and Steep 
the Path Appears,
Or Heavy is the Task,
Our Father says, 
“Keep on, my child, 
One step is all I ask.”
'D.J.D.
S.-
I heard dramats are the best 
lays... guess I'll just have to 
wait for you to tell me.
Steve W. -
Do you always study in the 
nude? 
O.P.'
Thanks for remembering me. I 
appreciate the art info. Say hi 
to B.F. for me.
'Katya
Je n’y suis pour personne 
Quand je suis dans vos bras 
Que la musique nous donne 
La vie encore une fois 
J’ai besoin de vous 
I love you Jodi!!!
Jeanne - darling'
Do you still want your t'shirt? 
If so, come and get it' you’re 
the last.
Paulette -
I understand you want a t' 
shirt...
You are sooooooo mad!
Have you seen the gift? The gift 
of...
:ixxixixiixnmHiii:
Have something to say? Send 
it to
VOX POPULI
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Information Desk
Space is limited - send your submis­sion as early as possible!
