TARTAN
Volume 66—Number 25Wednesday, April 12, 1967
Peschel, Moore Win SG Election
SG Election Vote Counts
The official vote count in last 
week’s Student Government elec­
tion:
PRESIDENT
Dale Peschel 431
Ron Haan 282
Rick Stafford 197
Bob Albertson 160
Sidney Snitkin 15
Dave Klein 2
Others 10
TOTAL 1,097
VICE-PRESIDENT
Tom Moore 331
Bob Schulman 292
Mike Smolens 215
Bill Fallon 188
Dale Peschel 5
Stu Miller 2
Others 13
TOTAL 1,046
Candidates Protest Multiple Voting;
Special Senate Meeting Upholds Results
Dale Peschel and Tom
Dale PeschelTom Moore
Blitz Re-Elected 
At AWS Polls
Marilyn Blitz was elected 
to a second term as president 
of Association of Women 
Students this past week in 
AWS officer elections for the 
1987-1968 school year. Miss 
Blitz defeated Liz Seley in 
the elections which were 
open to all women students.
Other officers elected were 
first vice-president (chairman of 
Judiciary Board): Pat Bowman, 
unopposed; second vice - presi­
dent: Margie Appleman, unop­
posed; third vice-president (rep­
resenting commuters): Suzanne 
Buchanan, unopposed; secre­
tary: Judy Resnik, unopposed; 
treasurer: Suzanne Lindamood, 
who defeated Karen Norbut; 
and secretary of Judicial Board: 
Minnie Cobey.
In addition to electing officers, 
women students voted 362 to 10 
that there should be a voluntary 
food contract at Morewood Gar­
dens.
Other members of AWS Exe­
cutive Board, composed of tow­
er presidents and vice-presidents, 
and new AWS Judicial Board 
members will be elected when 
the tower members for next 
year are established after room 
drawing.
vrote counts in the elections 
for president and treasurer: 
President: Blitz, 231; Seley, 141. 
Treasurer: Lindamood, 188;
Norbut, 142.
Rules for Human Decisions Considered at Symposium
Scientists studying decision-making processes will con­
sider the theme of human judgment at the third annual Car­
negie Symposium on Cognition Thursday and Friday, April 
13-14, at Carnegie Tech.
Scotch 9n9 Soda
. . presents . .
PIPPIN, PIPPIN
?April 28th, 29th 
May 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th
?
Tickets on Sale NOW! 
Baker Hall—Skibo Snack Bar
Sessions open to the public 
will be held from 8:45 am to 
4:30 pm tomorrow and 9 am to 
to noon Friday in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion auditorium.
Entitled “Formal Represen­
tation of Human Judgment,’' 
the program is the third of 
five planned symposia on cog­
nition, directed by Dr. Ben­
jamin Kleinmuntz, Tech as­
sociate professor of psycholo­
gy. Among this year’s guests 
will be 1958’s Nobel Prize 
winner in medicine, Dr. Jos­
hua Lederberg of Stanford 
University.
Of interest to the 10 partici­
pating scientists at the symposi­
um are the strategies and rules 
of thumb used by humans to 
reach decisions. The objective is 
to translate those processes into 
formal statements so that com­
puters can be programmed to 
make similar decisions, Dr. 
Kleinmuntz said.
The range of human judg­
ments to be considered April 13- 
14 are clinical decisions by phy­
sicians, including neurologists;
(Continued on Page 6)
Carnival Planners Expect 
‘Funtastic’ Spring Weekend
by Steve Baker, Chairman, 
and Bill Benthall, Publicity Chairman, of Spring Carnival
Spring Carnival 1967 promises to be one of the most 
funtastic weekends this campus has seen. The theme is 
“Roman Thru the Comics,” comic characters in a classical 
Greek or Roman setting. Sampling the enthusiasm around 
campus, one sees people taking up the jobs of preparing for 
the three-day weekend of May 4, 5 and 6. Superstructures 
of Midway booths are appearing and buggy teams are chart­
ing the potholes in the Schenley Park course. The sororities 
are letting down their hair and shortening their skirts for 
the Queen Presentations on April 28. A Committeeman is 
saying, “Only three weeks, what am I going to do?”
4:30The fun begins at 4:au pm 
Thursday when the judges take 
their first official look at the 
booths on the expanded Midway. 
The Midway opening, highlight­
ed by the coronation of the 
Queen of Spring Carnival and 
dancing to the sounds of the 
Ithacas is at 5 pm.
Friday begins bright and ear­
ly with the buggy design judg-
Students Answer School’s Drug Stand
The administration’s 300-word drug statement, product of two years research, was 
issued last week. Comment was gathered from some students with intimate drug experi­
ence, and one dominant idea was expressed: “It was a vaguely worded and thus a non 
eommital statement. It spelled out no definite policy.”
However the statement did provoke some opinions. One voiced by various users con­
cerned the sloppy use of the word “drug/’ “Two years of research by the administration
should at least have demonstrated there are many different drugs.”
-'he experienced students de­
fine two distinct classes of drugs 
and kept them separated as they 
sPoke. In one class, the depres­
sant or "mind contractants,”
*hey put alcohol—non-addictive 
unless in vast quantity — and 
heroine, morphine, and opium, 
et°- which are violently addic­
tive. In a completely different 
class they place marijuana, LSD,
MT, and the other psychedelic 
hiirhs” which they define as 
m*nd expandants." And accord-
ing to those who should know, 
marijuana and LSD along with 
the others are non addictive.
In fact, the users carry their 
definitions even further; they 
make a wide distinction between 
marijuana and LSD. While mari­
juana is considered to be a pre­
dictable drug, LSD is used with 
greater caution. Experienced 
users speak in terms of specific 
drugs rather than in general 
terms. Their comments for this
article
juana.
tend to refer to mari-
When asked why the state­
ment was so vague, one user 
quipped, "What do you expect 
them to say?” Indeed, the dom­
inant opinion seems to be the 
school is caught in the middle; 
it is trying to preserve its rep­
utation as a good school and it’s 
trying to curt) the growing prob-
(Continued on Page 2)
ing. Then, at 9 am, buggies be­
gin their tour of Schenley Park. 
The new entries and the day­
light practices promise to give 
some of the hottest competition 
in years. The campus honoraries 
will tap new members at Call 
Day early Friday afternoon. The 
Sorority Relays and Faculty Egg 
Toss complete the daylight ac­
tivities.
The concert on Friday at 
Carnegie Music Hall features 
Peter Nero, noted throughout 
the world for his amazing tal­
ent as composer, arranger, 
and performer. Mr. Nero at 
the piano, backed up by bass 
and drum», promises to pre­
sent an enjoyable evening of 
pop, jazz, and monologue in 
his own unique style.
Early Saturday afternoon finds 
the Camival-goer experiencing 
the thrills of the sweepstakes 
finals. Following the Schenley 
(Continued on Page 7)
Marine Recruiters 
To Be On Campus
A Marine Corps Officer selec­
tion team will be on campus 
next Wednesday, April 19, to 
interview students interested in 
obtaining a commission in the 
U. S. Marine Corps.
The selection Team will be sta­
tioned in the lobby of Baker 
Hall all day on the 19th.
Moore will be installed next 
Wednesday as the new Presi­
dent and Vice-President of 
Student Government.
Peschel, running as a write-in 
candidate in the elections last 
Tuesday and Wednesday, pulled 
39 per cent of the total votes 
oast—a decisive plurality. (See 
official vote count at left.) His 
nearest competitor, Ron Haan, 
collected 26 per cent of the vote. 
The vice-presidential race was 
much closer, as Moore gained 
30 per cent of the votes to 27 
per cent for Bob Schulman.
The total vote in the election 
—nearly 1,100—more than dou­
bled last year’s turnout of 468. 
The polls in front of Baker Hall 
ran out of paper ballots Tues­
day afternoon, and it took a 
last-minute printing job by A 
Phi O election officials to pre­
vent another shortake Wednes­
day.
Rules Committee 
Rejects Protest
The day after the polls dosed, 
before the ballots had even been 
counted, presidential candidates 
Ron Haan and Rick Stafford 
and vice-presidential candidate 
Mike Smolens drew up a protest 
of the election, listing nine ob­
jections to the way the election 
was conducted, and claiming 
there should be a thorough in­
vestigation of the election pro­
cedures and appropriate action 
taken.’’ (See letter, “Students 
Protest SG Elections,” page 4.)
When it became apparent 
that the Senate Rules Commit­
tee, which supervises all SG 
elections, would not accept the 
protest, Haan asked SO Presi­
dent Joe Orens to call a spe­
cial Senate meeting Friday af­
ternoon to reconsider the com­
plaints.
At the meeting, Haan pro- 
pored that the election be de­
clared null and void and a new 
election scheduled. The Senate, 
however, voted 18-1 to adopt a 
resolution to accept the validity 
of the election results, with a 
provision that election proce­
dures be investigated and possi­
bly revised for the future.
The chief protest registered 
was a “high incidence of multi­
ple voting”—that is, cases of 
students collecting ID cards and 
using them to cast several votes 
at once. Ray Guydosh, Rules 
Committee chairman, replied at 
(Continued on Page 8)
Inside . . .
Today’s Tartan
Judy Comal,
Spring Ball Oimn ..................p. 1
Readers Writ*....................................p. 4
Editorial ...........................................p. 4
Angry Arts March ......................p. S
HUAC change*
Commielvnd Protests ....p. S 
Effects of Viet War
as seen by Teck Frols ........p. 5
Klee Exhibit show«
Evolution of his Art ..............p. 4
The Technical side
of $ '¦' $ productions........p. 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, April 12, 1967
IMItllllllllli itili ÜMIIEItlltlllllltltlllllllllllliaiillllrilllllllltlHIIIInllliüINII! IHII III If llllf^
CIVIC ONE SHOW ONLY
ARENA SATURDAY
IN PERSON
APRIL 22 at 8:30 p.m.
an eVenirtcj
"ilt’ihe
RIGHTEOUS
BRfllHIRS
Volume mtnoES¦RRHSII «K
Recommended for 
mofwre oudieneet
StranQ
683-6992 W0
STARTS TODAY
T ATR
I ANdAWOMAN
I »)>>)>»>)>»> <<««<<<<<<«< 
GRAND PRIZE 
WINNER 1966 
CANNES FILM 
FESTIVAL
THE LIGHT FANTASWICK. The rope of a thousand 
smokes. No flame. No fuel. Uses standard flints. 
The harder the wind blows, the brighter it glows. 
Matchless in a sports car, smooth at the game. Looks 
like gold braid pinned on your trench coat. Knot it 
and stuff it in your jacket pocket. Provides months 
of unfailing lights. Get it before the "in" crowd dis­
covers it. . . . Matchless price, too. *2.25 post paid.
• (Get Extras far Friends and Laughs) •
ENCLOSE $2.25 - Check ? Money Order Q
NAME...........................................................................................................................................
CITY.....................................................................STATE.................................ZIP.
•tarringjames mason • maximilian schell harrlet andersson • harry andrews 
and slmone signoret as "elsa”
Last Seven Days
Peschl ,cMo rhWinoSG EtGnc:
Jtoy CWhMSee SphnMs ,cee QtSSM
A Premier Productions Co., Inc. leteoie
Vanessa Redgrave
David Hemming* * Sarah Miles
COLOR
CLARK RACE - KDKA RADIO - EMCEE
All Seats Reserved: $2.50, $3.50, $4.50 (tax incl.)
MAIL ORDERS NOW!
Send check or Money Order and Self-Addressed, Stamped Envelope 
to RIGHTEOUS BROTHERS SHOW, Civic Arena, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
A bearded Larry Elgart succeeded in proving last Friday night that the big band 
sound is not dead, as the Les and Larry Elgart band played for the Spring Bal.l An add­
ed highlight was the crowning of the Spring Ball queen, Judy Cornell, a junior psychology 
major, sponsored by Men’s Dorm Council. Her court consisted of first runner-up, Meilon 
Redinger, sponsored by BTP, and second runner-up, Judy Imlay, representing SAE.
The Bail, held in the Syria 
Mosque Ballroom, was attended 
by nearly 200 couples, including 
various members of the faculty
Tartan Photo by Gordon Morria
Elgart (far right) and group wall for Spring Ball.
A Corlo Ponti Production
Antonioni’s
Judy Cornell receives the tradi­
tional bouquet as she is pro­
claimed Spring Ball Queen.Drug Rejoinder ...
gards to punishment, the school 
should let the law take care of 
it. “It is law’s problem and a 
person caught with marijuana 
or any other drug will be pun­
ished enough by the ‘feds.’ We 
don’t need a double dose added 
on by the school.” In fact the 
point was made that if the 
school did take stem action, like 
expulsion, the problem would 
be made public and hurt the 
school image.
Comments vary on the idea 
of a seminar as proposed in 
the statement. Some say that 
it’s a good idea to have open 
lectures on drugs in general. 
But a prevalent comment was 
that these lectures would lose 
appeal; the students having 
past experience with drugs 
would be the only ones inter­
ested enough to attend. For 
the rest of the students, who 
need to be informed, the whole 
campus drug problem seems 
like a great non-reality.
One last comment, “What did 
this statement accomplish?” One 
of those interviewed, flashing an 
unnaturally large grin, drew 
this parallel: “Tech freshmen 
and sophomores can get a gen­
eral impression of this state­
ment’s effect on the campus 
drug scene by imagining some 
senior coming up to them at the 
wildest of fraternity parties and 
telling them they’re too young 
to be drinking.”
and military department. The 
Elgart band, a refreshing change 
from the usual fare of the three- 
guitar-and-drums type band, 
blasted through the four-hour 
stint with music ranging from 
up-tempo rock and blues, to 
slow-moving oldies-but-goodies.
Previously, the dance was 
known as the Military Ball, and 
was attended by few students 
other than those in ROTC. How­
ever, the Ball was designated as 
an all-school event by Student 
Senate earlier this spring, and 
retitled the Spring Ball. Al­
though still primarily sponsored 
by the Military Department, the 
Ball was attended by many 
non-ROTC students. The Ball 
was termed ‘successful’ by most 
students present, many of whom 
lauded the use of Syria Mosque 
rather than Skibo, and the music 
of the swinging Elgart band.
(Continued from Page 1) 
lem with a minimum of fuss and 
keep some of its students out of 
jail. The issued statement is in 
the midddle of the road. It 
doesn’t vigorously condemn 
“drug” use, but, of course, it 
doesn’t come out for it.
An interesting view was ex­
pressed by one experienced 
marijuana user when he said, 
“I wouldn’t want the school 
to come out in favor of drugs 
(marijuana) because my de­
gree won’t mean much.” How­
ever, this same person also 
commented that the adminis­
tration shouldn’t punish users 
and that they should “keep 
the image.”
Many of the interviewed stu­
dents felt that the school should 
“look the other way” like they do 
with the drug alcohol. And in re-
EXPERIMENTAL, UNDERGROUND, AND AVANT-GARDE FILMS
Mogubgub's "THE POP SHOW"
Conner's "BREAKAWAY"
Bralchage's "REFLECTIONS ON BLACK"
Barbara Harris and Severn Darden in Second City's "ELVES 
Belson's "ODDS AND ENDS"
.. plus fotir more ..
Sunday, April 16th — 4-7-9 p.m.
Y.M. & W.H.A. Auditorium — $1.00 — 315 S. Bellefield
12th B,G 
WEEKFILM OF 1966!”
Nohonol Society of Film Cnlics

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Aprii 12, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
Scholarship Aid 
For Women
Application blanks for the 
Pittsburgh Woman’s Clan 
Scholarship are now available 
in the Financial Aid Office. Any 
junior woman in good standing 
is eligible to apply for this 
scholarship which is based on 
need, scholastic standing, per­
sonality, and activities. Appli­
cants must also submit a state­
ment of why they think they are 
qualified for the award.
Completed applications and 
statements are due in the Fi­
nancial Aid Office, 210 Warner 
Hall by Monday, April 17.
Interviews will be conducted 
for women students in Margar­
et Morrison and Engineering and 
Science on April 19 by Mrs. Bea­
trice K. Thorpe. Interviews for 
women students in Fine Arts 
will be conducted by Miss Char­
lotte Emery on April 29. An ap­
pointment will be arranged by 
the Financial Aid Office when 
the application is submitted. All 
interviews will take place in 
Warner Hall 206.
Buy T extbooks Now!
Bookstore Manager C. S. Floyd 
advises that time is running out 
for students who have not yet 
purchased required text books 
for spring semester. Because of 
the remodeling and enlarging of 
the Book Store, all surplus and 
unsold text books will be return­
ed to the publishers beginning 
in mid-April.
Nothing can be spared, says 
Floyd, and all texts will be re­
turned without execption. Spe­
cial orders will not be accepted 
for books once they have been 
returned.
Films on Aircraft Presented by ASME
Vertical and short take-off and 
landing aircraft will be the sub­
ject of the American Society of 
Mechanical Engineersi meeting 
next Wednesday. The speaker 
will be Mr. J. R. Clarke, Vice- 
president and General Manager 
of the Vought Aeronautics Divi­
sion of the LTV Aerospace Cor­
poration. Mr. Clark will discuss 
the design and development of 
the XC—142A V/Stol, a four 
engine transport aircraft whose 
wings rotate to vertical position 
for vertical take-off.
Two films and slides will be 
shown summarizing testing of 
the aircraft, transition from hov­
er to forward flight, rescue op­
erations and landing on aircraft 
carriers. Mr. Clark will also dis­
cuss some advanced concepts; 
one is called ADAM and the 
other is called JET FLAP-RO- 
TOR.
The meeting will be on 
Wednesday, April 19, at 7:30 in 
Scaife Hall Auditorium.
INTERNATIONAL CLUB
MIXER
?
MUDGE HOUSE
?
FRIDAY, APRIL 14th 
8:30 p.m.
ARMYJoinaT Giant 1 on the moveCareers in Management \
Investigate the unlimited opportunities now available with one 
of the largest, most progressive and successful retailing or­
ganizations—the worldwide "PX” Exchange Service.
A modern training program will prepare you for an initial 
assignment at one of our many PX installation centers through­
out the United States on the executive/management level. 
Transfer to overseas location available after training period.
Career positions are available in the following fields for 
qualified graduates:
• Retailing • Buying • Accounting • Auditing • Architecture • 
Meehan ical Engineering • Personnel • Food Management • 
Systems Analysis • Personal Services and Vending 
Management
We are seeking graduates with majors in:
? Business Administration ? Economics ? Psychology
* Mathematics ? Liberal Arts ?Marketing ?Architectural 
Design ?Mechanical Engi neering* Personnel 
Administration ? Accounting ? Systems ? Food and 
Hotel Management
Excellent starting salaries. Liberal company benefits 
including: group insurance, paid vacations, retirement plan, 
sick leaves, liberal travel allowances, relocation expenses, 
tuition assistance.
(NO FEDERAL SERVICE 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION REQUIRED)
Campus Interviews 
will be held on
MONDAY, APRIL 17th
For further information write to
MR. CARL SALAMONE RECm?iTMENTLEGE 
ARMY AND AIR FORCE EXCHANGE SERVICE
OAK CLIFF BANK TOWER 
400 SO. ZANGS BLVD.
DALLAS, TEXAS 75208
Mlllll:lllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll(lllllll!l!!IH|lill!lllll
TYPEWRITER
Sales Rentals Repairs
CAMERA EXCHANGE. INC.
3711 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
683-2181Oakland’s Only Camera Store
aiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiliiliiiiiiiiliiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiii
Like the one about business. Especially 
big business. That it is beyond the rugged 
individualist’s wildest daydream to enter 
this holy of holies because he’ll lose some­
thing that’s very sacred — like his inde­
pendence.
Sure, it can happen. If a guy or gal 
wants to hide, or just get by, or not accept 
responsibility, or challenges.
We’re not omniscient enough or stupid 
enough to speak for all business, but at a 
company like Western Electric, bright 
ideas are not only welcome, they are en­
couraged. And no door is shut. Create a 
little stir, go ahead, upset an old apple­
cart (we replace shibboleths at a terrific 
pace — we have to as manufacturing and 
supply unit of the Bell System — in order 
to provide your Bell telephone company 
with equipment it needs to serve you.)
There’s an excitement in business. True, 
we’re in it to make a profit, but working to
find new and better ways to make things 
that help people communicate is very re­
warding and satisfying. Did you ever hear 
these wry words of Oliver Wendell 
Holmes? “Never trust a generality — not 
even this one.”
That’s how we feel about the generality 
that claims you’ll just become a little cog 
in a company like Western Electric. You 
might, of course, but if you consider your­
self an individual now, odds are 10 to 1 
that you’ll keep your individuality. And 
cherish it. And watch it grow. Even at big, 
big Western Electric.
You know, that’s the only way we’d 
want you to feel. If you feel like coming 
in with us.
Western Electric
MANUfACTUWNGi SUPPLY UNIT Of THE BELL SYSTEM
It's trade-in time for tired old myths.
MIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIflllllllltlMi

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, April 12, 1967
Editorials . . .
Narcotics and the Law
Two Carnegie Tech students are among the dozens of 
Pittsburgh residents awaiting trial for the possession of 
marijuana. Arrested in the fall during a federal narcotics 
raid on an alleged distributor’s apartment, one of the stu­
dents placed on $10,000 bail and held in jail for 10 days. The 
other was taken in by a local squad during a private party 
where sale of narcotics was suspected. In both cases, parents 
posted bond—which tends to be high for out-of-state nar­
cotics offenders—and the boys were ordered by the grand 
jury to stand trial sometime in the spring.Regardless of whether the law should be changed, sale 
or use of marijuana violates the Drug, Device, and Cosme- 
iic Act of 1961 and those who indulge should be aware of 
the legal consequences. Under state provisions, first offen­
ders may be imprisoned for up to three years and/or fined 
not more than $25,000. Under the more stringent federal 
regulations, users may be imprisoned for up to five years 
and/or fined not more than $2,000; sellers may be imprison­
ed for up to 10 years and/or fined not more than $5,000.
Pittsburgh detectives are aware of a high concentration 
of narcotics use in Oakland and Shadyside; some of the 
detectives live in the area and attend parties there. Carnegie 
Tech campus is private property but the school cannot keep 
law enforcement agents out of Skibo. Nor can hosts always 
recognze inconspicuous plainclothesmen who might attend 
their open parties.While some users or potential users will begin or con­
tinue using drugs, despite advice to the contrary pothers 
should consider the legal consequences, if caught, versus the 
benefits gained from use of drugs.
How To Be A Good Loser
Last week's Tartan Dubious Achievement awards were 
given out a week too early, since the student government 
elections have provided a number of people who deserve 
awards.In the furor over the elections, the most controversial 
point has been the question of the validity of multiple vot­
ing, where votes are cast on a one-vote, one-ID card basis, 
thus ID cards can be solicited and the voter can vote as many 
times as he has ID cards. While this practice has question­
able ethical value, the procedure was ruled legal by the 
Senate rules committee before the election. In fact, Mike 
Vargo, Tartan news editor, informed five of theeight candi­
dates, with the exception of Smolens, Albertson, and Peschel, 
of this fact the week before the elections. However, no one 
protested at that time. The question was again brought up 
Tuesday night, half-way through the elections, but Ray 
Guylosh, chairman of the Rules Committee ruled then that 
since it had been allowed previously, that the rules for 
Wednesday Would be the same.
The multiple vote rule was not made on the eve of the 
elections, nor half-way through the elections, but during the 
previous week. Candidates had two opportunities to protest 
this procedure, or to even withdraw from the election at 
those times. However, all the candidiates accepted the de­
cision by the committee, or at least tacitly did so by remain­
ing in the election. One of the candidates most vocal about 
the multiple voting rule was Ron Haan, who apparently had 
forgotten that he had voted twice, using two ID cards, early 
on Tuesday.
In the special Senate meeting on Friday, the rules com­
mittee stated that they found no cases of illegal voting pro­
cedure. Since the multiple voting rule was termed legal, 
there is no question of illegality in this election. The pro­
test does emphasize the fact that greater care and fore­
thought is needed for the running of the elections, and that 
a study should be made of these procedures in order to re­
vise the rules for next year.
While protesting an election is a bonafide procedure, 
there is a distinct difference between a valid protest and 
simply being a poor loser. The protestors were clever in for­
mulating the complaints turned in before the votes were 
counted, since if they won, they could promise to revamp 
the rules for next year, and of course if they lost, it makes 
defeat much easier to accept. However, the protest filed by 
Smolens and Haan was not accepted by a special meeting 
of the Senate, where the vote was 18 to 1 accept the validity 
of the election.
Haan, in addition, committed the error of running to 
Dean Brown, rather than following the procedure outlined 
by the Rules Committee for filing a complaint. While crying 
on the shoulders of the Division of Student Affairs, Haan 
somehow got the idea that the administration was not go­
ing to accept the election because of the multiple voting. 
What he failed to realize is that the administration has no 
say in the matter, and it is entirely a student problem. Dean 
Brown confirmed this opinion when he informed the Tartan 
that the administration has no say in who is to be president 
of Student Government, although he added that he hoped 
the election rules would be changed by next year.
At this point it seems clear that the protests by Haan 
and company are not motivated by a desire for a better stu­
dent government, but out of being unable to accept defeat. 
There is nothing that can be accomplished by destructive 
criticism, especially when the criticism is aimed at weaking 
the position of the newly elected leaders. To insist that the 
elections are not valid, now that’ the student senate has up­
held the election indicates that those who continue to object 
would not have made responsible leaders, for such childish 
action is not commensurate with mature leadership.
Only one losing candidate has thus far placed Student 
Government above his own disappointment. Bob Schulman, 
stated on Friday that although he did not agree with the 
multiple-voting, he accepts the election as being valid.
The Tartan seconds his motion.
Students Protest 
SG Elections
Editor, the Tartan:
It is essential that the entire 
student body be made aware of 
the events surrounding the stu­
dent government elections of 
April 4 and 5. We appeal to the 
student body to demand by ref­
erendum, a new and honest elec­
tion. This appeal is based on the 
following nine irregularities in 
the voting procedure which oc­
curred during the election:
1. There was a high incidence 
of multi-voting. Although this 
wa> declared legal by the Rules 
Committee, its ethics are ques­
tionable. Some students voted 
twenty (20) times.
2. There was electioneering at 
the polling places by official A 
PhiO ballot - takers while on 
duty.
3. There is a possibility that 
ballots were stolen. Sixteen bal­
lots were found in the ballot-box 
folded together.
4. Pledges at several social 
fraternities were forced to sur­
render their identification cards 
to a brother who was in turn 
going to vote en masse for a 
certain candidate. This is not 
only a flagrant example of (1) 
above, but is completely in vio­
lation of individuality and the 
democratic process.
5. Graduate students were vot­
ing in the elections on Tuesday.
6. Students using their green 
identification cards (for first 
semester) wfere allowed to vote.
7. Students were voting with­
out having their identification 
cards punched.
8. A person manning a polling 
place replied to the question of, 
“Who is the write-in candidate?” 
with a definite name. There are
any number of write-in candi­
dates.
9 The Rules Committee was 
negligent in informing most of 
the candidates of the legality 
of multi-voting.
Patricia Bowman
Barry D. Comet
Bob Black
R. Dennis Kelly
E. J. Novotny, Jr.
Becky Smith
VP Influenced 
Elections
By the time you read this 
note, the student government 
elections will probably be de­
termined, but I feel I cannot let 
one incident of the campaign go 
unnoticed. This morning a letter 
on the stationery of the Carne­
gie Tech Student Senate was 
circulated through the Campus 
Mail endorsing one of the can­
didates for vice-president in the 
current election. This endorse­
ment was signed by the present 
vice-president of the Senate, us­
ing the title of his office, and 
carried the request that it be 
posted on bulletin boards, this 
to appear as an official state­
ment of the Senate. I doubt that 
such is the case. Regardless of 
the outcome of the election, we 
must surely be better off with­
out a man who would use what 
influence his office may have 
(and incidentally a share of our 
financial support) to endorse 
his friend to the discredit of the 
other candidates.
John S. Detwiler 
Senior EE
oarnegle techTARTAN
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-in-Cihef
Executive Editor ..............................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor .............................................ERIC FELDMAN
Business Manager .............................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor........................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor .........................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor ..................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor ......................Mark Kaminsky
Local Advertising Manager..................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor .....................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor ..............................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor..........Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager....Harvey A. Shapiro 
Circulation Managers ...Jeff Parks, Jim Neumeister
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Moses.
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwein, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille 
Badzgon, Chipper Monk, Suzanne Lindamood, Jerry Russo.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Baynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mike Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Ellen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, John Mera, Paul Horvath, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Hausier, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire, Hilary Kurzweil.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Ginny McKelvy, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson, Nancy Young.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtei, Mary Olds, Kathy Schultz, Leonard Wanetik, 
Jane Merck, Carroll Swarmer.
Published weekly—except during exam and vacation periods by the 
Undergraduate Students of Carnegie Tech.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213—Phone 6S2-4557.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for notional advertising by National Adverising, Inc
Another 
Dubious Award
Editor, the Tartan:
It has come to our attention 
that one indubitably notable 
Dubious Achievement Award 
was omitted from your foolish 
April insert (of 1967):
The New York Herald Tribune 
“Black Pinkie” Award for Ac­
curate and Raw Creative Col­
lege Journalism — to The Car­
negie Tech Tartan, which in the 
face of mountainous molehills 
(to coin a cliche), has maintain­
ed up-to-the-month reports of 
vital campus happenings. And 
which has continued in its quest 
for approaches to news “analy­
sis” a la other mass media to 
favor the students with such 
notably dubious features as the 
Tartan (?) Dubious Achieve­
ment Awards.
Our heartiest congratulations!
Respectively submitted 
Harvey Lord, English ’69 
Jim Hoover, Math ’69 
Warren Fugate, Bio ’69
Bravo!- 
April Fool
Editor, the Tartan:
Subject: April Fool Section— 
Volume 66, No. 24.
To everyone who had a hand 
in its making: BRAVO!
Gene Ventura 
Placements Office
Sculpture 
Vandalized
Editor, the Tartan:
Last week, someone stole a 
30 pound cast iron hook from 
one of the sculptures behind the 
Fine Arts building. The hook 
was the most important part of 
the sculpture; without it, it is 
ridiculous. It is not necessary 
for everyone to appreciate my 
sculpture, but there was no 
need to vandalize it. It’s very 
sad that the students at Tech 
are not enough accustomed to 
art—even if they don’t bother 
to look at it or like it—to leave 
it alone.
Please, if anyone has seen it, 
return it to the sculpture.
Glenn Paris, 
Architecture ’70
Water Fight 
Dragged Her In
Editor, the Tartan:
An open Letter to the Council 
of Fraternity Presidents:
Gentlemen:
Last Saturday (April 1), what 
seemed to be millions of fratern­
ity boys swarmed in front of 
Morewood Gardens throwing wa­
ter at everyone they saw, in­
cluding innocent, very-interested 
bystanders like'me. At the time 
I unfortunately happened to be 
walking in front of my dorm­
itory to go to my room to get my 
penicillin pills. I had a fever of 
104. I do not see that a bath of 
ice water did me any good, but 
rather lengthened my illness.
Also, I was wearing a hat 
which I had made. The water 
absolutely ruined it. The hat 
cost me $24.50 to make. I re­
quest that you reimburse me 
for the damage you caused, in 
order that I will be able to make 
another hat. I am sure that if 
(Continued on pUge 8)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 12, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
Crowd Jams Field House 
For ‘Angry Arts’, March
An estimated 1500 people, mostly students and teachers, gathered in the Pitt Field 
House last Saturday night to witness “Angry Arts Against the War,” a program of protest 
sponsored by the Pittsburgh Area Students for Peace.
The purpose of the assembly was to protest the Vietnam war through the various artistic media.
Highlights of the evening’s pre­
sentations were performances by 
two local folksingers, Dan Smul- 
lyan and Pat Hodgman. Smul- 
lyan sang several songs of his 
own composition, while Miss 
Hodgman drew on traditional 
material, including Bob Dylan’s 
“Masters of War.”
Other protest-art features were 
a series of poetry readings, a 
dramatic skit called The Seven 
O’clock news, reading of ex­
cerpts from Mark Twain’s Let­
ters from the Earth, and a series 
of songs by a rock ‘n’ roll group 
called “The Plant.”
About half of the program was 
straight, un-“artistic,” document­
ed protest of the war.
The documentary film Time of 
the Locust was shown, and Prof. 
David Montgomery of the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh gave a de­
tailed analysis of the ineonsiten- 
des and dangers he saw in the 
American Vietnam policy. He 
stressed the importance of ne­
gotiating with the National Lib­
eration Front.
Professor Peck, a sociologist 
from Western Reserve Universi­
ty explained the importance of 
the peace movement. He claim­
ed the war was “dehumanizing” 
Americans and stated that dis­
senters of every ilk must be 
recognized and listened to.
Against the War . . .
Perhaps the most moving part 
of the evening was the reading
ol a letter from an American 
soldier in Vietnam. The soldier 
described the razing of villages 
in South Vietnam and told how 
one of his fellows accidentally 
blew up a civilian peasant hut, 
killing a mother and her chil­
dren who were inside.
Candlelight March
After the program, about 400 
members of the audience joined 
a candlelight march down the 
hill and through Oakland. Near­
ly 70 city policemen were on 
hand to keep the marchers in 
order. A squad of police motor­
cycles led the procession down 
the middle of Forbes Ave. to 
Mount Mercy College.
Tartan Photo by John Mera
Peace Marchers on Forbes Ave. Saturday night.
About 20 counter-demonstra­
tors walked alongside the peace 
marchers, carrying signs that 
said, “Victory in Vietnam” and 
“Back Our Boys in Vietnam.” 
The march terminated with a 
coffee hour in St. Joseph’s Hall 
at Mount Mercy.
Students Bap 
Press Coverage
Ellen Bergman, one of Carne­
gie Tech’s coordinators in Stu­
dents for Peace, said she was 
.‘surprised” by the size of the 
crowd. “I can’t believe it—this 
is Pittsburgh!” she said as the 
marchers filed out of the Field 
House.
Miss Bergman and other co­
ordinators of the Angry Arts 
program were considerably up 
in arms over the Pittsburgh 
Press’ coverage of the event, es­
pecially its April 7 editorial 
which suggested that the Stu­
dents for Peace were "dupes” 
of a subversive Communist 
movement. She also rapped the 
Press news story which said, 
“None (of the audience) was 
angry, or even midly upset 
about . . . Vietnam,” and said 
that people who were “neatly 
dressed and groomed . . . stood 
out in the crowd.” She noted 
that a considerable portion of 
the crowd was college faculty 
members and other “responsi­
ble” adults.
RUGS S15 to $59
1000 9x120, 6x9$, 12x12s, 12x15», 
etc. Also furniture discounts to 40%
_. - 5432 Walnut St.cnase s N,TprNipl
10-9 p.m. * 621-1025
1967 SUMMER 
JOB CATALOG
Start your career this sum­
mer with a major US corpo­
ration. Excellent salaries. 
Catalog lists over 10,000 
openings available this 
SUMMER for men and wo­
men students.
Send $2.00 today to: 
AMER. ASSN. OF COLLEGE 
STUDENTS
30 North LaSalle, Chicago, IH. 60601
Tech Profs* Examine 
War’s Many Effects
On Wednesday, April 5, nearly 200 Tech students at­
tended a unique panel discussion entitled “Vietnam: Its Ef­
fects on ¥011." The program was sponsored by the Tech 
YMCA, and was held in GSIA Auditorium.
The first speaker was Dr. Eugene McOreary of the His­
tory Department, who discussed the effect of the war on 
student values. Dr. McCreary stated that he had bet^i teach­
ing a course for five semesters in order to get students to 
reflect on their values, but that “the Vietnam War has done 
more than McCreary can to change the nature of man.” He 
indicated that each student has a responsibility to be aware 
and concerned about the Vietnam situation.
Next, Dr. Myron Joseph from GSIA spoke about the 
effects of the war on the U.S. economy. He pointed out that 
in one sense, the war benefits CIT students, because it 
provides more and better job opportunities. He added that 
an end in the war in Vietnam does not necessarily mean that 
such programs as urban renewal, housing, and the War on 
Poverty will be expanded; it may result instead in a general 
tax cut or some other alternative.
Dr. Daryl Bern from the Psychology Dept., the third 
speaker, discussed the credibility gap, and gave several rea­
sons why President Johnson’s credibility is low, among them 
the fact that “President Johnson turns the intellectuals 
off.” He also cited several instances where the press, has 
deliberately misled the American people about the situation
in Vietnam.
HU AC Says Commies 
Behind V ietnam W eek
The Committee on Un-American Activities has charged 
that Communists are the principal force behind extensive 
demonstrations to take place during “Vietnam Week,” April 
8-15.
A Committee report, “Communist Origin and Manipula­
tion of Vietnam Week,” says the aims of these demonstra­
tions are to reverse the U.S. policy of resisting Communism 
in Vietnam, undermine the United States, destroy any possi­
bility of establishing a stable democratic government in 
Vietnam, and promote a Communist takeover there.
The Committee names two groups as the planners and 
organizers of the demonstrations: the Student Mobilization 
Committee and the Spring Mobilization Committee. It says 
“Communists are playing dominant roles” in both organiza­
tions.
The student group, the Committee states, grew out of 
a conference in Chicago last December, called by Bettina 
Aptheker of the Communist Party’s National Committee, to 
organize a nationwide student strike against the war in 
Vietnam. The conference decided to limit the strike proposal 
to a few key campuses, but to stage extensive on-and-off 
campus student demonstrations throughout the week of 
April 8-15.
The aim of the Spring Mobilization Committee is to 
stage on April 15, as a culmination to Vietnam Week, the 
largest demonstration ever to take place in the U.S. against 
the war in Vietnam. The two committees have joined forces 
to insure the success of their joint projects.
Representative Edwin E. Willis, Chairman of the Com­
mittee, said evidence indicates that the organizers of Viet­
nam Week may succeed in their basic objective of staging 
the largest and most extensive demonstrations against the 
war in Vietnam.
“We must keep in mind, however, that they originally 
hoped to turn out 500,000 people for their march in New York 
and the same number for their San Francisco march and 
demonstration—a total of 1,000,000 people. I am convinced 
they will not get anything like this number. It will be a Com­
munist failure in this respect, though they will succeed in 
providing a lot of grist for the worldwide Communist propa­
ganda mill.
“Naturally, this is disturbing. It is encouraging, how­
ever, to know that the great majority of students in this 
country are refusing to have anything to do with Vietnam 
Week and counter-demonstrations are being organized on 
some campuses.”
The Committee report finds that global publicity will 
be given to the Vietnam Week demonstrations by Commun­
ist propagandists in all parts of the world and will have the 
following effects:
(a) It will give aid and comfort to the Communists 
everywhere, particularly in Vietnam.
(b) Among non-Communists, it will tend to create the 
false impression that a truly large segment of the U.S. popu­
lation is vehemently opposed to this country’s policy in 
Vietnam.
(c) U.S. leaders will be faced with greater difficulties 
in convincing our allies of the correctness of this country’s 
policy in Vietnam.
The fourth speaker, Dr. Ser­
gio DeBenedetti from the Phys­
ics Department, discussed the 
effect of the war on moral val­
ues. He said that “speaking on 
the subject of moral values in- 
trugued me, because physicists 
aren’t supposed to have any 
moral values.” He drew several 
parallels between U.S. involve­
ment in Vietnam and Italy's in­
volvement in Ethiopia under the 
leadership of Mussolini. He stat­
ed that although our present 
military policy may possibly re­
sult in a military victory, it can­
not result in real peace for 
Vietnam.
Tom Kerr, head of Pittsburgh’s 
American Civil Liberties Union, 
was the last speaker. He dis­
cussed the effect of the war on 
civil liberties, and cited many 
examples of the attempts of the 
U.S. government to curb dissent.
The speeches were followed 
by a brief question period, dur­
ing which many of the speak­
ers were asked to expound 
upon and clarify their views. 
George Baylor, the panel’s 
moderator, when asked why 
the panel appeared to be load­
ed with people who opposed 
the war, pointed out that a 
sincere attempt had been made 
to obtain a speaker whose 
position was more In accord 
with that of UJS. policy, but 
that no one was willing to 
speak, and that although the 
Young Americans for Free­
dom were Invited to cosponsor 
the event, they declined to do 
so. Dr. Joseph, by disagreeing 
with Dr. DeBenedettl's state­
ment that UJS. troops should 
be withdrawn from Vietnam* 
revealed that there was Indeed 
a wide difference of opinion 
among the panel members.
Because many of the student» 
attending the program had ques­
tions concerning the draft, the 
YMCA has decided to sponsor 
a program sometime in May 
which deals solely with this 
topic.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, April 12, 1967Print Exhibit at Carnegie Museum Features Art of Swiss Painter, Paul Klee
Prints by Paul Klee, a selection of 70 works by the Swiss-born master, will open 
at the Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute, on April 7 and remain on view until May 6, 
1967. The exhibition can be seen in the second floor galleries E and F from 10 am to 5 
pm daily and 2 to 5 pm Sunday.
Klee’s prints show his evolution from a traditionalist into one of the most personal 
and influential masters of the twentieth century. From the beginning, Klee admired both 
graphic art and literature. He was interested in Goya’s Caprichos, the engravings of Blake, 
Fuseli, Ensor and Redon.
The earliest group of prints in the exhibition, done between 1901 and 1905, are char­
acterized by a tight precision of contour and modeling, based on the Central European tra­
dition of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, while at the same time showing the influ­
ence of Jugendstil. In this group or the Virgin in the Tree, Two Men Meet, Each Believ­
ing the Other of Higher Rank, and The Hero with the Wing. But even as early as this, 
‘the humor,” James Thrall Soby writes, “that steady and brilliant ingredient which col­
ors Klee’s art to its end, is his own.
C. L Seniors
Let us show YOU 
how you can become 
part of New York State's 
1/2 billion dollar highway 
construction program.
No exam required!! 
Generous fringe benefjts 
including tuition refunds.
One recruiter will be 
on YOUR CAMPUS on 
Monday, April 17, 1967.
Visit your Placement Office 
NOW for brochudes 
and sign up 
to hear the full story.
N. Y. State Dept, of Public Works 
Personnel Office, Albany, N.Y. 12226
Subsequently, after his move 
from Berne to Munich in 1906, 
Klee was influenced by the ex­
pressive use of color and simpli­
fied forms of the post-impres- 
sionists Van Gogh, Cezanne, and 
Gauguin, and the early works 
of Matisse. These influences 
show in the new monumentality 
of Two Nudes of 1907.
In Munich, Klee met other 
young painters, Kandinsky and 
Marc, who were the founders of 
the group known as Der Blaue 
Reiter (the Blue Rider). This 
group wished to present variety 
in art, and their exhibition in 
1911 included Kandinsky’s non 
objective paintings, animal paint­
ings by Franz Marc, and works 
by August Macke, the American- 
born Albert Block, the composer 
Arnold Schoenberg, and the 
French primitive painter Henri 
Rousseau.
Adopts Cubist Devices
Klee exhibited with the Blaue 
Reiter in 1912. Their theory that 
“spiritual value” was the most 
important aspect of art fitted 
perfectly with Klee’s intense sub-
B
w
pi
m
Sentry^reports 
good news (at last!) about 
car insurance savings 
for young men
If you're a man under 25, or have a son who 
is, you know what a big extra premium you pay 
for car insurance. Now, Sentry Insurance offers 
10% discount for young men who qualify as’ 
safe drivers. (This is in addition to Sentry's 15%' 
discount for driver education.
HOW TO QUALIFY
Young men under 25 qualify for the Sentry 
Preferred Youthful Driver Discount on the basis 
of a simple questionnaire that takes only about 
20 minutes. It is not a test of driving skill or 
knowledge. It is completely confidential. There 
is no penalty for young men who do not qualify 
for the extra discount.
ACT NOW
For full details about the Sentry Preferred 
Youthful Driver examination, call or drop a card 
today.
Jk Looki out for you
SENTRY. XfINSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals * Sentry Life
SEND TO: (339)
SENTRY INSURANCE 
429 FOURTH AVE.
PGH., PA. 15219
Send Me Facts On The Sentry Preferred 
Young Driver Test.
NAME....................................AGE______
ADDRESS........................CITY................
%
jectivity. Prints of this period 
included in the exhibition are 
Nude, St. George, and Street 
Children, all dated 1912. The ar­
tist went to Paris in 1912, where 
he spent over a year, and where 
he knew Picasso, Delaunay, and 
Apollinaire. From that time, 
Klee adopted certain cubist de­
vices, and his work became more 
abstract.
.In 1920, Klee became a pro­
fessor at the newly formed 
Bauhaus in Weimar, where he 
taught painting together with 
Kandinsky and Feininger. It 
was in this period that he ex­
plored two other ¡sources of 
inspiration: the art of chil­
dren and the art of the insane. 
In the exhibition, In the Spir­
it of Hoffmann is related to 
the former, while Buffoonery, 
Vulgar Comedy, and The One 
in Love are related to the lat­
ter.
The years 1910, 1912, and 1921 
were Klee’s most prolific as a 
printmaker. After 1922, he be­
came more and more interested 
in painting, although he contin­
ued to work in the print medi­
um until 1933, when the eruption 
of Nazism in Germany caused 
him to return to his native 
Switzerland and his graphic 
work ceased.
Decisions . . .
(Continued from Page 1)
decision-making resulting from 
radar screen scanning; and pat­
tern recognition in chemistry, 
spectral analysis, and music. 
Thursday’s program:
8:45 am—Introduction, Dr.
Kleinmuntz.
9 am—“Cue Consistency and 
Configurality in Human Judg­
ment,” Dr. Paul J. Hoffman, 
Oregon Research Institute. 
10:30 am—“Why Are Revisions 
of Opinion Conservative?” Dr. 
Ward Edwards, University of 
Michigan.
11:30 am—Discussion of the 
Hoffman and Edwards papers. 
Dr. Bert F. Green, Jr., Carne­
gie Tech.
1:30 pm—“Homostate and Seg­
regate Types in Personality 
Measurement, Using the Tax- 
onome Program,” Dr. Ray­
mond B. Cattell, University of 
Illinois.
3 pm—“Clinical Information Pro­
cessing Systems,” Dr. Klein­
muntz.
4 pm—Discussion of the Cattell 
and Kleinmuntz papers. Dr. 
Robert Glaser, University of 
Pittsburgh.
Friday’s program:
9 am—“Conceptual Patterns in 
Music,” Dr. Herbert A. Simon, 
Carnegie Tech.
10:30 am—“Automated Thinking 
About Structural Problems in 
Organic Chemistry,” Dr. Le- 
derberg, Stanford.
11:30 am—Discussion of the Si­
mon and Lederberg papers. 
Dr. Oliver Selfridge, Lincoln 
Labs, Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology.
The goal of Tech’s five sym­
posia is to stimulate research on 
cognition, with emphasis on the 
formal aspects of thinking.
Earlier Tech programs in the 
series were concerned with 
“Problem Solving: Research 
Method and Theory” and “Con­
cept and the Structure of Mem­
ory.”
33 Faculty 
Promoted
Thirty-three Carnegie Tech 
,fjiculty members have received 
promotions for the coming aca­
demic year.
Promoted to full Professor 
are Joseph O. Artman (Physics 
and Electrical Engineering), 
Richard B. Beaman (Painting 
and Sculpture), Albert A. Caret- 
to, Jr. (Chemistry), Allan K.Col­
ter (Chemistry), Otto A. Davis 
(Economics), Ben j amin Klein­
muntz (Psychology), Alfred A. 
Kuehn (Industrial Administra­
tion. James S. Langer (Physics), 
William C. Libby (Drawing and 
Painting), Wesley A Mills 
(Painting and Sculpture), Victor 
J. Mizel (Mathematics), Howard 
Saalman (Architecture), and 
Robert C. Slack (English).
Promoted to Associate Profes­
sor are Stanley W. Angrist (Me­
chanical Engineering), Daryl J. 
Bern (Psychology and Industrial 
Administration), Luc Berger 
(Physics), Richard G. Braden- 
burg (Industrial Administra­
tion), Harold J. Day, (Civil En­
gineering), Arnold L. Derfler 
(History), Stanley P. Franklin 
(Mathematics), Robert B. Grif­
fiths (Physics), Robert W. Horn- 
veck (Mechanical Engineering), 
Lois S. Josephs (English), Mor­
ton I. Kamien (Economics), 
Charles H. Kriebel (Industrial 
Administration), Edward M. 
Krokosky (Civil Engineering), 
Robert E. Lucas, Jr. (Econom­
ics), Carl M. Meltzer (Physics), 
Warren P. Saunders, Jr. (Eco­
nomics and Education), Samuel 
A. Sloan (Achitecture), and 
Norman Starr (Statistics).
Promoted to Assistant Profes­
sor are Joseph R. Gasparella 
(Architecture), and Michael 
Theiner (Biological Sciences and 
Chemistry).
• • •> 81111
PMsnMSShG
MBA’s
Are you looking for a company that will recognize you as 
an individual, provide you with a stimulating growth 
environment, and expect you to grow and progress to your 
fullest potential in the shortest period of time? Especially 
when this potential includes top level management.
For EE’s and ME’s with graduate and undergraduate de­
grees we have positions available in Design and Develop­
ment, Project Engineering, Applications Engineering, Test 
Equipment Design, Manufacturing and Production Super­
vision and Product Engineering.
For MBA’s with engineering undergraduate degrees, we 
have positions in Program Management and as Assistants 
to several of our officers.
Were a small company (1500 employees and $25 million 
in sales), but we plan on getting much larger.
If you are interested in discussing a future with 
us, a representative will be on campus April 25. 
. . . See your placement office for details . . .
If you are unavailable on the above date, 
please write to:
W. L . FRYKHOLM
Professional Placement Manager
MOOGInc.
PRONER AIRPORT
EAST AURORA, N. Y. 14052
An equal opportunity employer!

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 12, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
Upward Bound’ 
Artwork Forms 
Skibo Exhibit
Art works by boys and 
girls unable to speak to so­
ciety in any other language 
will be displayed thru April 
24 at Carnegie Tech in Skibo. 
The artists are pupils in Up­
ward Bound, the federal gov­
ernment’s pre-college pro­
gram for young people from 
city ghettos and rural pov­
erty areas. The display is 
part of a national exhibit of 
Upward Bount art touring 
the country.
Technical competence of the 
works, done by youngsters whose 
average age is 16, is not the sig­
nificant factor to be considered, 
according to Douglas O. Peder­
sen, codirector of Upward 
Bound’s art show and head of 
the education department at the 
Whitney Museum of American 
Art, New York City. “Beyond 
skill, the amazing thing about 
Upward Bound art is its ex­
pressive power, the persuasion 
and passion of the message,” he 
said. “Art has become a second 
language for some students, and 
for others it is the first truly 
expressive means they have 
found to communicate to a larger 
audience in a formal way.”
Because of economic condi­
tions and environment, Upward 
Bound students have had less 
access than most young Ameri­
cans to traditional ideas and cul­
tural attributes that aid in aca­
demic success. However, as their 
art demonstrates, the Upward 
Bound pupils have great intel­
lectual potential.
Upward Bound projects in 
Pittsburgh are being conducted 
at Carnegie Tech, the University 
of Pittsburgh, and Mount Mer­
cy College.
(Continued from Page 1)
Park events another race will be 
christened in the Skibo parking 
lot. In this Volkswagen Derby, 
the object is for a number of 
men to get the car, manually, 
from one point to another and 
then to return — driving back­
wards with all the men in it. 
Saturday’s daytime fun is com­
pleted with the Plank Joust.
Three Bands
At 8 Saturday night, the Queen 
of Spring Carnival presides over 
the last hours of her reign as 
three bands swing into action. 
The ballroom will be transform­
ed into a temple with the gods 
and goddesses of the comic strips 
enshrined throughout the room. 
Richard Maltby and his 14-piece 
orchestra will provide the big 
band sound. The Bonnevilles will 
raise the ceiling in the faculty 
dining room, and the Harvey 
Lord Quintet will provide relax­
ing listening in the snack bar.
Tickets will go on sale in the 
dormitories, fraternities, and 
Baker Hall on Monday, April 
17. The cost is $10 for the full 
weekend.
Student Soloists 
Perform Sunday
The Carngeie College/Com­
munity Orchestra will present 
its annual Concerto Night this 
Sunday at 8 pm in Carnegie Mu­
sic Hall, Oakland.
The eight student soloists, 
chosen by auditions before 
-members of the muse faculty, 
are Linda Burian (violin), 
Roger Roth (viola), Vincent 
Corrigan (piano), Bernie Do- 
broski (tuba),- Joan Jaques 
mezzosoprano), Walter Knopp 
(tenor), Mark Schrello (trum* 
pet), and Mark Silver (trum­
pet).
The concert, which will be 
conducted by Sidney Harth and 
Maurce Laney, is free to the 
public.
Music Workshops 
To Aid Teachers
Carnegie Tech’s music de­
partment is preparing to of­
fer three summer workshops 
in aspects of music educa­
tion. The workshops are Ele­
mentary Eurythmies, Dal- 
croze Eurythmies (both 
from June 26 - July 14; two 
graduate credits), and the 
Carl Orff Teaching Method 
(July 17-28; four graduate 
credits).
In eurythmies, students’ bodies 
are used as rhythmic instru­
ments (hand-clapping, foot-tap­
ping, etc.). The eurythmies 
workshop is designed to broaden 
teaching skills of classroom 
teachers of kindergarten to third 
grade classes.
Tech’s music department Is 
one of the few schools in the 
UJS. which has received spe­
cial permission from the Dal- 
croze Institute in Geneva to 
instruct music specialists seek­
ing advanced skills In this 
method.
Tuition for both of these work­
shops is $102.
The Orff workshop grows out 
of last summer’s successful 
course based on Carl Orff’s idea 
that children learn music quick­
est by active participation. Stu­
dents use eurythmie methods 
and simple instruments to take 
progressive steps from two-note 
melody. Tuition for this course 
is $68.
Full information may be ob­
tained from Carnegie Tech’s de­
partment of music.
Financial Aid 
For Mass. Residents
The Massachusetts Board of 
Higher Education is now offer­
ing tuition scholarships to U.S. 
citizens who are Massachusetts 
residents attending universities 
on a full-time basis. Interested 
Carnegie Tech students should 
write for information to the 
Board of Higher Education, 
Scholarship Office, 182 Tremont 
St., Boston, Mass. 02111. Dead­
line for completed applications 
is May 15.
Deansgate’s ^PjagjBBB 
rakish striped 
sports coat
won’t ever wrinkle/^6 
Only because it’s 
two-ply polyester 
and combed cotton by
Anthone Review
Underground Movies—IV
and
Funeral in Berlin
by Tony Lawrence
ATTENTION!
MEN UNDER 25
5702 Hilltop Avenue
«look, our 795-1393for you
SENTRY. ^INSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals »Sentry Life
Sentry reports good news (at 
last) about car insurance savings 
for men under 25. Call today to 
find out how 20 minutes of your 
time may save you up to $50 or 
maybe even more.
My confidence is growing fast in the showing of experimental 
and underground films on this campus. The fourth program of 
this school year featured seven films; four of them were quite 
interesting and the others were either poor or un-memorable.
Robert Nelslon was again represented by a film that is rather 
well-known in underground film circles, called Plastic Haircut. 
Unlike Oh Dem Watermelons, it was in black and white, uncrea- 
tive, and seemed meaningless. The title related to the movie in 
absolutely no way. I can’t remember a thing about Oh! except that 
it was by Tom Palazzolo and, along with a 1920’s version of Fall 
of the House of Usher, was substituted for Peter Weiner’s Shoot 
the Actor. By the way, Fall of the House of Usher was in the 
same realm of criticism as Plastic Haircut, except 45 years ago.
Transformation (by Ed Emshwiller) was a very good use of 
colors and shapes; it became extremely pleasant and tranquil to 
watch—or was I just exhausted? The film by Peter Weiner that 
did make it to the April showings was short and to the point; 
entitled simply Bumblebird, it was a series of poses of your 
friend and mine—LBJ—looking frightfully symbolic and foolish. 
George Kuchar (not to be confused with George Cukor) was re­
sponsible for some of the funniest moments of the evening with 
his film, Hold Me While I’m Naked. The flick seemed to be both 
a personal statement and a satire on the Hollywood nudie picture. 
He used a brilliant color and a beautifully, obvious soundtrack to 
achieve his goal. Though it was a trifle, and I mean a trifle, long, 
it was very amusing.
I must take a very long, low bow to Jim Henson for his movie 
Timepiece, which closed the evening. I had seen this film before 
and loved it then. I understand it cost around 20 or 30 thousand 
dollars to make, but it is by far the best “experimental” film 
shown so far. What it’s about is another question, but as far as
I could make out, it was a perfectly synchronized view of a man 
and a day in his life. Perhaps that is all—it is more than enough. 
If it is ever around again, don’t miss it. Also, I’d like to take a 
few words to say how much better the showings are being done! 
The place, the staff, and the price—are right.
*****
Funeral in Berlin is hardly worth mentioning, but I feel some­
thing must be said, so here goes. It is a spy thriller one step below 
mediocrity. The plot (based upon a novel by Len Deighton) is 
very vague and senseless. Consequently, the screenplay is even 
worse. I had the feeling that almost every line had been said be­
fore in some other picture. This time, Harry Palmer must get a 
Russian official, in charge of the Berlin Wall, out of East Ger­
many. The official wants to defect, but is being closely watched. 
He sort of agrees to reveal some information, but not really, and 
the reason for England to be interested at all in the proposal fell 
by the wayside.
Michael Caine plays Palmer with a touch of Alfie, and I guess 
just about every other part he’s ever played. His performance just 
reinforced my decision that he is more of a movie star than an 
actor. Oscar Homolka is adequate as the Russian official (whose 
name I can’t think of), but he played it more as a contrivance 
rather than as a real person. The movie is currently playing at 
the Chatham Cinema, which is a very nice theatre, and the way 
the customers are treated is even nicer. It is a tremendous pleasure 
to go there, but in this case I’d advise ajiyone in that area to 
keep on walking.
DAN DONAHUE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, April 12, 1967
IN WASHINGTON
Rocky Reach Hydroelectric 
Project for Chelan County 
Public Utility District, Wenatchee, 
Wjfj^^Washington.
IN VIRGINIA léfiimn
A 375 mile, 500 kv isSK* 
Transmission System for 
Virginia Electric and 
Power Company.^gi
IN CANADA
Titanium Dioxide Plant at Tracy, 
Quebec for British Titan Products 
(Canada) Limited.
IN SPAIN “
Spain’s first Ethylene Plant for E. N. Calvo 
Sotelo at Puertollano, Spain.
IN CONNECTICUT
Nuclear Power Generating 
Station for Connecticut 
Yankee Atomic Power Company, Haddam 
Neck, Connecticut.
IN FRANCE
Chemi-Groundwood 
Facility for Société 
F. Béghin, S.A.
Election . . .
(Continued from page 1) 
Friday’s meeting that "multiple 
voting was not declared illegal 
before the election”—precedent 
had been established by the ac­
cepted use of multiple voting in 
previous elections, and the prac­
tice had been brought up and 
ruled allowable in a Senate 
meeting before the election.
The protesting candidates 
claimed that "Regardless of the 
legality, its ethics are question­
able,” but Senator Mike Vargo 
pointed out that “It’s not a ques­
tion of ethics. Student Govern­
ment is a legislative body and 
has to be systematic. . . . Once 
you set up rules, you’ve got to 
stick to them.”
Candidate Smolens had gath­
ered all file other candidates 
for a meeting with Guydosh 
Tuesday night, after the first 
day of elections, to ask him to 
outlaw multi-voting: for Wed­
nesday, but Guydosh said, “We 
couldn’t change the rules in 
the middle of the election.” 
Most of the other charges in 
the formal protest concerned 
questionable practices by A Phi 
O's manning the polls, such as 
failing to punch ID cards and 
allowing grad students to vote. 
Guydosh, however, countered 
that some of these violations 
were “virtually impossible to 
prove,” and the rest were “un­
avoidable and few in number 
. . . the kind of isolated and in­
voluntary errors found in any 
election.”
Further Protest 
Possible—Haan 
Haan said he will investigate 
the possibility of appealing the 
election through other means. A 
referendum to the student body 
has been mentioned as a pros­
pect. Both Guydosh and Presi­
dent Orens say the legality of 
such a referendum is question­
able under the Student Govern­
ment Constitution.
Installation Banquet 
Peschel and Moore, along with 
the new delegates to Student 
Senate, are to be formally in­
ducted into office at a Student 
Government banquet in the Fac­
ulty Dining Room in Skibo next 
Wednesday, April 19, at 5:30 
pm.
The president- and vice-presi­
dent-elect have both said they 
will “definitely, consider” ap­
pointing the losing candidates to 
positions in the new govern­
ment, either as Senate represen­
tatives or committeemen.
LEWIS »
Salrs-Hepairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS °
CLASSIFIED
BOOKS FOR SALE - ALL KINDS. April 
13th, 10 a.m.-10 p.m.; April 14th and 
15th, 10 a.m. - 6 p.m. St. Nicholas Gi».<elc 
Orthodox Cathedral in Oakland. Aver­
age Price — 25c. Sponsored by the Bryn 
Mawr and Vassar College Clubs.
TYPING NEEDED? Secretary with crea­
tive writing background will aid you in 
organizing and typing of papers, theses, 
projects, etc. Fast, accurate, reasonable. 
Plione 271-1326.
REMODELED FURNISHED APARTMENT. 
Modem furniture. At Carlines. May: 
Squirrel Hill, 1 bedroom, $135. May: 
Shadyside, 2 bedrooms, $165. June: 
Shadyside, 6 large rooms, 3 bedrooms 
for 4, $200 plus. Evening: 681-4147. 
Day. 391-3277.
Readers Write ...
(Continued from Page 4)
I walked into one of the fratern­
ity houses and destroyed some­
thing of value, the brothers 
would make me pay for it. Cer 
tainly the fraternity system is 
not an evil in itself, when con­
fined to those who favor it and 
its social functions, but when 
it extends itself to forcibly in­
clude those who do not care to 
be included, then it oversteps 
and negates whatever good it 
may have done. Sincerely, 
Chipper Monk
Residence of Distinction 
•
ONE ROOM, Kitchenette 
equipped, one bath, beauti­
fully furnished->$155. up.
•
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very 
attractively furnished, $275. 
up.
UNFURNISHED 1 & 3 ROOM; 
APARTMENT, also when' 
available.
•
FAIRFAX HOTEL ;
4614 M AVI. Hm: 411-4030
Creative Writing 
Courses Planned
Students desiring to take 
a course in creative writing 
next year are asked to sub­
mit written applications to 
Professor Austin Wright, 
head of the Department of 
English, Baker Hall 259 by 
Friday, April 28.
Two courses are to be offered 
in 1967-68. The course Techni­
ques of Fiction, normally re­
stricted to seniors and specially 
qualified students from lower 
classes, will be taught by Pro­
fessor Gladys Schmitt. The 
course Creative Writing, open 
to qualified seniors, juniors, and 
sophomores, will be taught by 
Richard R. O’Keefe.
Admission to each course is 
restricted to qualified students 
of all colleges, who will be se­
lected by the Department of 
English. Candidates may indi­
cate a preference for either 
course, but the department 
cannot promise to honor such 
preference.
Candidates are reminded of 
the deadline for applications: 
Friday, April 28.
if she doesn’t give it to you...
—get it yourself!
AROUND THE WORLD 
WITH STONE & WEBSTER . ..
Stone & Webster Engineering Limited-London • Stone & Webster Engineering S.A.-Paris* Stone & Webster Engineering N.V.-Amsterdam
Stone & Webster Canada Limited-Toronto
Cologne, 6 oz., $4.50 
After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50 
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 
After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50SWANK, NEW YORK - SOLE DISTRIBUTOR
IN BRAZIL
Steam Power Generating 
Station for Sao Paulo 
Light Co., a Subsidiary of Brazilian Traction, at Sao 
Paulo, Brazil. M
STONE & WEBSTER
Every day, Stone & Webster engineers are at work 
on the design and construction of process plants, 
power stations and industrial plants at home and 
abroad. Our engineers have developed new designs, 
new processes and new construction techniques in 
many areas of engineering.The young engineer join­
ing Stone & Webster will find himself part of a large 
and vigorous company where unusual ability is rec­
ognized and rewarded.
Stone & Webster representatives will be on campus April 26th 
for interviews with those interested.
For appointment, please contact your Placement Officer.
Engineering Corporation
New York • Boston • Garden City, L.I. • Chicago • Houston • San Francisco • Los Angeles • Seattle
12 oz.,

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 12, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 9
as good as the people in it—and their ideas. 
As a company fast approaching S1 billion in 
annual sales, Philco knows the power of 
ideas. And we make it our business to create 
the kind of atmosphere that most helps to 
generate ideas.
We are a major subsidiary of Ford Motor 
Company, involved in everything from manu­
facture to technical services, from outer 
space walking to underwater talking, from 
anti-weapons systems to color television. If 
you’d like to join us in an exceptionally fast- 
paced, rewarding career position we'd like to 
talk to you. We will be visiting your campus 
on April 17. Contact your Placement Office. 
Stop by and talk to us about your future or 
write to College Relations, Philco Corpora­
tion, C & Tioga Sts., Philadelphia, Pa. 19134.
PHILCO WILL BE HERE ON APRIL 17
Career opportunities available on the East Coast, the Midwest, the Southwest, the West Coast, and throughout the world.Divisions: Aeronutronic • Appliance • Communications & Elect/onics • Consumer Electronics • Internationa' • Lansdale • Microelectronics • Sales <£ Distribution • TechRcv • Western Development Laboratories
PHILCO j.';’
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
Audrey's Wigs
EastmontFails $59.95
IMPORTED HUMAN HAIR
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
Cqll 823-2452
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Seniors and Graduates in 2l8,TRi8Tth
AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, 
CIVIL (structures oriented), 
ELECTRICAL, MARINE, 
and METALLURGICAL 
ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING MECHANICS, 
APPLIED MATHEMATICS, 
CERAMICS, PHYSICS and 
ENGINEERING PHYSICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
THURSDAY, 13
Appointments should be made 
in advance through your 
I College Placement Office
Pratt &
Whitney 
Aircraft
I An Equal Opportunity Emptoyar
SPECIALISTS IN POWER . .. POWER FOR PROPULSION —POWER FOR AUXILIARY SYSTEMS.
CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACE VEHICLES. MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS.
OUR SECRET WEAPON
The Sandal Shop
726 FILBERT ST. PHONE: 682-8698 SHADYSIDE
BELTS and SANDALS
• HANDMADE COBBLED •
• TRACED TO YOUR FOOT HAND RUBBED •
Rostropovich
Mstislav Rostropovich, one of 
the world’s great cellists, will 
present a concert at 8:40 pm on 
April 17 at the YM and WHA, 
315 S. Bellefield Ave., Oakland.
Considered by many to be the 
foremost living cellist, Rostro­
povich is an advocate and out­
standing performer of contem­
porary music. Trained in his 
home country, Russia, he has 
been greatly inspired by Pro-
In Concert
kofiv, whose music he has in­
troduced on many occasions.
On April 17, Rostropovich will 
perform works by Britten, 
Brahms, Bach, Tschaikowsky, 
and Stravinsky. He will also in­
clude an original composition, 
Humoresque.
Seats are still available and 
may be reserved by calling the 
YM and WHA Musical Society 
at 621-6500.
We’ll do anything to make 
you happy.
Even bleed for you.
This is Arrow’s authentic, 
imported, India madras. If it 
doesn’t bleed, you’ve bought the 
wrong shirt. Other features to 
look for: elbow-length sleeves, 
back collar button, box pleat and 
hanger loop. Lots of Arrow India 
madras shirts to choose 
from. $8.00. Not too much to 
spend, when you consider what 
we’re doing for you.
-ARROW-

---------------------------------------------------

Make An Appointment With Opportonlty
4
<1
Ashland Oil is a rapidly growing 
petroleum company with expanding 
interests in petrochemicals, plas­
tics, road paving, carbon black and 
synthetic rubber manufacturing and 
many other fields. It has truly chal­
lenging jobs available in many areas 
for engineers, marketing personnel, 
accountants, data processing spe­
cialists and graduates in other 
fields. Our representative will be 
glad to give you specific informa­
tion on current openings.
Representative will be on campus 
for interview Wed., April 19. Contact Placement Office 
for appointment.
Ashland
PageP2- CAe aR NEGA2A2I TCHWP2d 
Ashland, Kentucky <41101

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 12, 1967 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 11
JOHN M. ROWKiS < SON (••
A New Kind of Love Story
Claude Lelouches’
A Man And A Woman
by Stan Thomas
A Man and a Woman is the kind of film I usually hate vio­
lently, and, as a matter of fact, I did find myself inclined to dis­
like this film by Claude Lelouehe until about a quarter way 
through its unreeling. It’s a simple love story about two widowers 
who have children enrolled in the same school. Of course, their 
children are friends, and, of course, they fall in love. To embellish 
this rather simple plot, Lelouehe shot the film in color that ranged 
from syrupy and almost sticky to sepia-tinted and rather drab. As 
if to insure some kind of success, the film stars Anoux Aimee and 
Jean-Louis Tringuinoun—both very attractive people—and a Ford 
Mustang, all the ingredients for an art house Sound of Music.
However, about a quarter of the way through the film every­
thing simply turned into a sophisticated pop fairy tale, and it 
all started to work as a simple little film about two people falling 
in love after tragic marriages. Even the syrupy photography occa­
sionally cut by a sequence in black and white, began to work for 
the fairy tale quality. Even the prolonged sequences of the hero 
racing his Mustang in a rally began to work in the texture of the 
film, although at first they seemed like prolonged Mustang com­
mercials. When it’s all over, the film is a commercial—for ma­
tured youth and love and . . . well, syrupy photography.
What seems to be evolving these days in French cinema is 
this new kind of love story in which the lovers are ordinary peo­
ple living slightly extraordinary lives—our heroine is a script 
girl; our hero a Mustang race driver—falling in love for better 
or worse. I originally saw A Man and a Woman a week after see­
ing Godard’s Musculin-Feminin; the similarities are striking. Al­
though Godard’s hero and heroine are younger—just turning 20 
—their love story is developed in a similar fashion. The director 
not only shows us two people in love, but their entire world, their 
past, and perhaps even a glimpse at their future. It’s all very 
subjective and sometimes a little different to follow but a lot 
more arresting than half a dozen Doris Day virginity epics.
I only have one real complaint about A Man and a Woman: 
the obligatory love scene. This is when a director takes a pair of 
lovers, undresses them, puts then in a bed with lots of bedding 
and Qlms what is to approximate passion. Not only does it turn 
the audience into voyeurs, but I can’t imagine too many people 
functioning normally—or nominally—with a movie camera peer­
ing down their naked necks. Since no one is really being fooled, 
wouldn’t it be just as expedient—and entertaining—to stop the 
scene before it all becomes a bit absurd. The fact that the scene 
in A Man and a Woman was filmed with orange filters didn’t help 
matters much. The flash back that the heroine was thinking of 
her husband throughout the preliminaries didn’t make it more 
believable.
Well, anyway, A Man and a Woman is being shown at the 
Strand in Oakland this week. Anyone in the mood for an adult 
fairy tide will love it.
S’n’S Production, ‘Pippin, Pippin’ 
Requires Technical Proficiency
Pippin, Pippin, this year’s Scotch ’n’ 3oda production, is scheduled to open May 
1. In addition to the cast, Scoth ’n’ Soda crews—stage, settings, and costumes, have been 
hard at work in preparation for the musical.
The production of such a large scale musical as Pippin, Pippin involves much tech­
nical work, according to Technical Director Len Alexander. He has been working with 
his crew for many weeks in order to prepare the stage and settings used in the show.
One of the main problems is
the building of a complete stage 
in the Skibo Ballroom. Using 
the collapsible Scotch ’n Soda 
stage (designed by the architec­
ture department) as a base, ad­
ditional wings must be built to 
the sides of the ballroom in or­
der to provide offstage wing 
space. The completed stage has 
a proscenium opening of 30 feet 
and is 22 feet deep. Because 
there is no fly space in the Ball­
room, all settings must come 
out from the side wings.
Nine Settings
Realizing this, set designer 
Stanley Thomas has designed a 
stage setting using five wagons 
in combination with travellers 
and a roll drop to make the nine 
different settings used in Pippin, 
Pippin. The masking and flats 
of the basic stage are covered 
in burlap to give a textured ef­
fect and painted shades of blue 
and green. One of the intricate 
pieces in the show is a seven by 
ten foot grille used in a monas­
tery setting.
The making of the costumes 
for the show involves much de­
tailed work also. Costume de­
signer Richard Keshishian has 
done extensive research into 
the ninth century era in order 
to design the more than 80 cos­
tumes used in the production. 
Most of the costumes are made 
of wools and heavy materials 
appropriate to the era. All of 
the costumes are being sewn 
like clothing, not merely tacked 
together as is usual with stage 
clothing. Purples, reds, blues, 
and greens are the basic colors
Stage crew presses ahead behind the scenes at “Pippin, Pippin.*1
for the court clothing which 
consists of long gowns for the 
women, and tunics and doub­
lets for the men with such ac­
cessories as cloaks, capes, head­
pieces, etc.
Also needed are peasant out­
fits which will be in shades of
browns and yellows. Such di­
verse costumes as soldiers ar­
mor, monks’ habits and whores’ 
dresses are used in Pippin, Pip­
pin. One of the gowns for the 
queen utilizes 20 yards of ma­
terial to make large, billowing 
folds in a nightgown.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest Tine Jewelers Since 1832
éJxciuôive at fëobertô
For '67 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
IM Review...
(Continued from Page 12) 
tion GSIA “C” lost to the EJ
“Phaseouts” 8-3 whileSN
“Black” beat the Commuter
Bandits 12-5.
StandingsWL
SN “Black”20
EJ “Phaseoutsi”20
BTP “A”20
Commuter Bandits11
GSIA “C”12
SAE “Gold”02
BSR “B”O3
In the minor leaiues, DU“J”
beat the EJ Gophers 26-15and
DTD “J” 28-24, whileTDP“j”
walloped ATO “” 29-7.
Cowboys League
DU “J”20
SN “J”00
EJ “Gophers”11
PKA “J”01
DTD “J”01
Indians League
ATO “J”11
BTP “T-birds”00
TDP “J”10
Peanuts01
Taking a break............
Between Classee er at Study Break }
W0Theero0W |
OPEN TO SERVE YOU \ 
24 HOURS A DAY J*
391S FORBES AVB4UE n
. . . and ... }
NORTH OP ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUt *ROUTE
Pittsburgh—429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
SERENITY . . . FROM $100
A Diamond Solatairo that has an important look. Tho diamond sots 
high on a tap pared prong giving maximum brillanco and fir«
WorlcTs Finest Diamond to Fit Your Budget!

---------------------------------------------------

Pa ge 12 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, April 12, 1967
Indiana Hands Tech
First Track Loss
by Ron Finnin
The Carnegie Tech thinclads suffered their first lost 
of the season last Saturday to Indiana State. The meet was 
close from the start to the finish as the lead changed hands 
throughout the afternoon. The meet was still undecided as 
the last few events were starting; Tech, however, lost the 
mile relay, the last running event and failed to take a sin­
gle first place in any of the last three field events, the long 
jump, triple jump, and the jave­
lin. The only area of the meet 
which was dominated by either 
team was the distance running 
where Tech took first and sec­
ond in the mile, half-mile, and 
two-mile runs. The final score 
was Indiana 80-3/2, Tech 64-%.
Prior to Saturday’s meet the 
track team elected two co-cap­
tains for the present season.
They were Bemie Flynn and 
Ken Batorski; both men are 
sophomore runners.
Tech now stands one and one 
for the season with the next 
meet Wednesday, April 12, at 
Westminster, followed Saturday 
by a meet at Geneva.
RESULTS
High Jump—Fiekes (I) 6' and 
Happach (T).
Shot Put—Finnin (T) 43’3-l/2”. 
Triple Jump—Good (I) 43’ 7%”.
Broad Jump—Fortuno (I) 20’8”.
Pole Vault—Illian (T) 11’3”.
Discus—Landru (D 122’1”; L. 
Bair (T).
Jpve’,in—J. March (I) 195’; Ay- 
lor (T).
Mile Relay—Indiana (McClain, 
Richards, Bean, Butler (3:35.9).
Two-mile—Burkholder (T) 
10:27.4; Flynn (T).
440 Int. Hurd.—Bresovec (T) 
60.2; Snyder (T).
220—McBlain (I) 23.2; Batorski 
(T).
880—Flynn (T) 2:03.1; Burk­
holder (T).
120 High Hurdles—Good (I) 16.1.
100—Sheldon (T) 11.1.
440—Butler (I) 51.9; Batorski 
(T).
Mile — Burkholder (T) 4:42.1; 
Flynn (T).
440 Relay—Indiana ( Modic, Bay- 
les, Laughery, McClain) :45.2.
PiKA downs Phi Kap, 8-4, 
Bridge Standings 
Spade League W L
Grad Nads 3 1
TDP 3 1
GSIA “S” 2 1
PKA “A” 1 1
ATO “J” 0 3
Heart League 
The Mount 3 0
EJ’s “Blue” 3 1
PKA “B” 2 1
ATO “C” 2 2
GSIA “C” 1 2
DU “Pledge” 1 3
PKT “White” 0 3
Diamond League 
ATO “A” 2 0
PKT “Purple” 3 1
GSIA “G” 2 2
DU “Active” 2 2
ATO “D” 1 2
DTD “B”* 1 2
SN 0 2
Club League
GSIA “E” 3 0
SAE 2 0
ATO “B” 1 0
DTD “A” 1 1
PKT “J” 2 2
BTP 0 3
ATO “Pledge” 0 3
Handball 
FiniJiing up league play last 
we3k, the Faculty Bull Dogs 
teat BSR 3-0 to take first place 
In the Warner League while 
GSIA beat the EJ’s 3-0 to place 
first in the Baker League.
In one quarter-final playoff
Photos by John Selisky
in mid-week softball action.
match, the powerful Bull Dogs 
defeated Frode Lives 3-0. Other 
quarter -final matches to be 
played this week find GSIA vs. 
the Algerithms, the EJ’s vs. the 
Mudgicians, and the Grade Nads 
aga’n t BSR.
Softball 
Yankees League 
ATO “A” edged BTP “B” in 
a 19-17 slugfest. GSIA “E” clob­
bered DU 14-4. In other action, 
SAE “Purple” beat the EJ’s 
“Arch” 8-2 while BTP “B” turn­
ed around and defeated PKT 
“Gold” 21-12.
Standings W L
ATO “A” 2 0
GSIA “E” 2 0
SAE “Purple ’ 2 0
BTP “B” 2 1
EJ’s “Arch” 0 2
PKT “Gold” 0 3
DU 0 2
Orioles League 
First-seeded TDP “A” showed 
an excellent hitting attack by 
beating the EJ’s “Wipeouts” 29-6 
and the Shockers II 28-9. The 
Wipeouts also lost to DTD “A” 
by an 8-4 score. The Chem E 
Math remained undefeated with 
an 11-9 squeaker over DTD “A” 
and an easy 13-1 victory over 
PKT “Purple.” Phi Kap also lost 
to PiKA this time by an 84 
score.
Standing« W L
Chem E Math 3 0
Tech. Tennis 
Team Takes 
Two Triumphs
by Mike Smolens
After over one month of prac- 
t'cing indoors and outdoors, the 
C-ine^'e Tech Tennis team de­
feated Duquesne in a practice 
match 9-2 on April 6th at the 
Tech courts. In the eight singles 
maiclies, Salim Khan (T) de­
feated Bolling (D) 6-1, 6-1; Bob 
T owe (T) defeated Carey (D) 
6 4, 6-3: Piccione (D) downed 
Leigh DeHuff (T) 1-6, 6-4, 7-5; 
while Dick Londergan (T) won 
over De Bone (D) 6-1, 6-4; Mike 
Smolens (T) defeated Collincini 
(D) 6-3, 7-5; Joe Gordon (T) 
defeated McNulty (D) 6-3, 6-1; 
Sam Hicken (T) crushed Sulli­
van (D) 6-1, 6-0; and Dick Beis- 
inger (T) rolled over We solow- 
ski (D) 6-2, 6-0. In the doubles 
competition, Lowe and Smolens 
(T) defeated Bolling and Collin- 
cini (D) at first doubles 6-3, 6-1; 
Carey and DeBone (D) defeated 
Londergan and Glenn Gilbert 
(T) 6-3, 8-6; and at third doubles, 
Gordon and Randy Wright (T) 
defeated Piccione and McNulty 
(D) 6-3, 6-3.
Coach Dave Lichtman, when 
asked about the Duquesne match 
and future matches, replied that 
all 16 men on the team were in 
mid-season form, and ready for 
St. Vincent. His prediction 
proved true when the Tech net- 
ter.s travelled to Latrobe, Pa. to 
face St. Vincent on April 8, and 
toyed with them for a 9-0 vic­
tory. This was the first white­
wash for Tech netmen in four 
years, and started the season off 
on a promising note. The entire 
match was played by Tech with­
out losing a single set. At first 
singles, Khan (T) crushed 
Meade (SV) 6-0, 6-1; Lowe (T) 
won 6-1, 6-1 from Antkowick 
(SV): Londergan (T) defeated 
Montjan (SV) 6-2, 6-1; Smolens 
(T) whipped Borna (SV) 6-0, 
6-1; Gordon (T) won over Lloyd 
(SV) 6-3, 6-1; Hicken (T) de­
feated Boyle (SV) 6-3, 6-1. At 
first doubles, Khan and Gordon 
(T) smothered Meade and Mont­
jan (SV) 6-0, 6-2; Lowe and 
Smolens (T) edged Antkowick 
and Lewandocoski (SV) 6-4, 6-3; 
Wright and Gilbert (T) defeated 
Lloyd and Yorken (SV) 6-2, 6-2.
Returning lettermen on this 
year’s squad are senior Lon­
dergan, juniors Khan and Lowe, 
and sophomores DeHuff and 
Smolens. In addition, the team 
consists of junior Don McKay, 
sophomores, Wright Jere Moter, 
Craig Smart and Luis Rosanes, 
and freshmen Gordon, Hicken, 
Beissinger, Gilbert, Anderson 
and Nagin. The next match will 
be played tomorrow against 
Grove City on the Tech courts. 
The Grovers defeated the Tech 
netters last year 7-2, and should 
prove stiff competition for the 
young Tartan tennis players.
TDP “A”20
PKA20
Shockers II11
DTD “A”12
EJ’s “Wipeouts”03
PKT “Purple”03
Pirates League
The first-rankedGradNads
won twice, 19-7 over TX and 15-
10 oper SN “Gold.”BSRlost a
close one to KS by a 12-11 score.
The EJ’s “B” had a tough week,
first being shut-out by the EJ’s
“A” 13-0 and then being upset
by TX 5-3.
StandingsWL
Grad Nads20
Rifle Team Closes Best 
Season In Six Years
Carnegie Tech’s rifle team closed its best season in six 
years when it finished fifth among 15 teams at the Nation­
al Rifle Association’s annual intercollegiate sectional match­
es at Annapolis, Md., this month.
Tech’s first team fired 1,131 in the March 18 match, 
behind three U.S. Naval Academy squads and the George­
town University team. Tartan shooters defeated the fourth
1967 Tartan Rifle Team
Navy team, Allegheny College, 
the University of Delaware, two 
George Washington University 
girls’ teams, Loyola College of 
Baltimore, and three teams from 
Canisius College.
The match climaxed Tech’s 
17-win, 2-loss overall record.
Tech won the Western Pennsyl­
vania Intercollegiate Rifle 
League title with a 15-1 league 
mark.
At Annapolis, team Captain 
Richard Damberg paced Tech 
shooters with a 286 score. He 
was followed by Frank E. Sand- 
gren, 285; Ted Mankovich, 284; 
and Fred Klein, 276.
Earlier in the season, Tech 
varsity shooters finished seventh 
at the 10th Annual Walsh Invita­
tional Rifle Match at Xavier 
University in Cincinnati, Ohio.
In that match, Tech lost to 
Murray State College (Ky.), the 
University of Akron (Ohio), 
Ohio State University, and Uni­
versity of Kentucky, the Univer­
sity of Cincinnati, and Kent 
State University (Ohio), but de­
feated Akron’s second team, In­
diana University, Rose Poly­
technic Institute (Indiana), Kent 
State’s number two team, East 
Kentucky University, and two 
Duquesne University squads.
Tech is coached by M/Sgt. 
Donald B. Huveldt, an instruc­
tor in the school’s Reserve Offi­
cer Training Corps (ROTC). 
Team moderator is Maj. James 
J. Steinbach, assistant professor 
of military science.
ThS FWte LnMS
by LARRY SIKON 
Tartan Sports Editor
As the spring carnival sweepstakes draw near, it becomes in­
creasingly apparent that ATO’s course record of 2:25.0 will stand 
secure for at least one more year. Although the free-roll is in ex­
cellent condition, Frew Street is in such poor shape that the times 
cannot help but be slow. Any buggy that finds itself in any position 
other than the center of the street is going to have a hard time 
making the finish without a bent axle. Winning time should be 
about 2:30.
* * * * •
Sports fans can find some top-flight actions this spring in our 
track team. Lead by co-captains Bemie Flynn and Ken Batorski, 
the Tartans promise to be the most exciting track team at Tech 
in recent history. Flynn and Harry Burkholder have been all but 
fantastic in the distance events while Batorski has turned in some 
great times in the 220 and 440. Also having fine seasons are Jeff 
Sheldon, Jim Bresovec, and Ron Finnin.
• • * * •
The Tech tennis team also is working on a. banner year with 
impressive victories in their first two outings. Led by Salim Kahn 
and Bob Lowe, the Tartans may be the strongest team in the 
area.
• * • • •
In the next couple of weeks, two professional teams make 
their '67 debut at Forbes Field. The Pirates open at home on the 
14th against the Cubs, followed by a series with the Mets. The 
Phantoms open on the 21st against the Nationals in their American 
professional soccer debut.
EJ’s “A"20The BSR “B” team lost two,
KS20the first a forfeit to BTP “A”
TX12and the second a 16-0 defeat at
EJ’s “B”12the hands of GSIA. The Betas
BSR “A”02also beat SAE “Gold” 9-2 to re^
SN “Gold”02main undefeated. In other ac-
Cubs League(Continued on Page 11)
