(*
IM Basketbatl 
Playoffs 
Begin— 
See Page 6
VOL. 49—No. 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., MARCH 13, 1956
Thirty Executives 
Arrive For Study
Executives from 30 firms in 13 states and four foreign coun­
tries convened at Tech yesterday to begin a nine-week course. The 
program for executives is the third given by the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration and is designed to develop a company-
wide point of view,' stimulate*——---------------------------------—----------
thinking about human relations in
business and explore the intermesh 
of the business enterprise with the 
national economy.
. According to Dr. G. L. Bach, 
^dean of the graduate school, the 
program is a response to a major 
problem facing American indus­
try—the shortage of broadly 
trained men for top management 
responsibilities. “Because many 
men have accumulated most of 
their business experience in a 
single department,” Dean Bach 
said, “they have not acquired the 
broad gauge requirements for top 
^management assignments, though 
they are already experts in one 
or more areas of administration. 
Carnegie’s program is especially 
designed to help successful ex­
ecutives obtain broader training 
for top-level responsibility.” 
Select Group 
Most of the participants are in 
their forties, have been with their 
companies between ten and 25 
years and have held their present 
^executive positions about four 
wyears. Admission to the program 
was limited to 30 executives care­
fully selected to assure broad 
representation of business back­
grounds, types of industry, com­
pany sizes and geographic areas.
During their nine weeks here, 
the group will concentrate on bus­
iness in the American economy 
and new techniques and ideas. In­
formal seminars with distinguish- 
l_ed leaders from business, labor, 
w government and the sciences will 
supplement the regular classes 
conducted on a round-table dis­
cussion basis by the graduate- 
school faculty.
Major Industries Represented 
Among the guest speakers will 
be C. L. Austin, president and 
director, Jones & Laughlin Steel 
Corporation, John J. Scanlon, 
treasurer, American Telephone 
^«and Telegraph Company, Eugene 
^uchert, leading consultant in in­
dustrial applications of atomic 
energy, James G. Fulton, con­
gressman and member of Foreign 
Affairs Committee, David Brush 
aber, vice-president, the First 
Boston Corporation, George W. 
Taylor, labor economics professor 
at the Wharton School of Finance 
and Commerce, University of 
Pennsylvania, and Earl P. Stev- 
>»enson, president, Arthur D. Lit­
tle, Inc.
Participating executives repre­
sent large and small firms from 
such industries as aircraft, steel, 
electrical machinery, oil, textiles, 
financial institutions, public util­
ities, chemicals, rubber, construc­
tion, tobacco and the U.S. Depart­
ment of Defense.
The program is administered by 
Dean Bach and Professor D. C. 
¦ jjdDearborn.
Pictures
TARTAN staff pictures for 
the Thistle will be taken on 
Thursday, March 22, at 7:00 
p.m. at the Union. Everyone 
who has worked for the TAR­
TAN this year should be 
photographed.
Thistle staff pictures will be 
taken Sunday, March 18, at 
2:00 p.m. at the Union. Every­
one who works for the year­
book in any capacity should 
be photographed.
Summer School
Applications and bulletins 
for summer school are now 
available in the Admissions 
Office. The summer session 
lasts from June 11 to August 
4 and offers both day and eve- 
ing courses.
No Tartan
There will be no TARTAN 
next week, since mid-semester 
exams are creeping up on us, 
and our staff needs a little 
time to study. Judging by the 
amount of campus news at 
present, we picked a good time 
to dispense with an issue. 
Also, judging from the amount 
of feature material seeping-in, 
the staff has already started 
to study for mid - semesters. 
Therefore the next issue will 
appear on March 27.
Major S ’it S 
Preparations 
Begin Soon
Scotch n’ Soda is now prepar­
ing for its fourteenth production, 
and for the first time it will be 
given “in the round.”
For producing a success in 
the arena show, Scotch n’ Soda re­
quires interested, self-sacrificing, 
and talented people willing to give 
up some of their time. Therefore, 
we are calling for behind-the- 
scene helpers.
The four important crews are 
stage, construction, props, and 
costumes. For you freshmen and 
other uninformed Techites, this is 
what each requires. Those who are 
on the stage crew work with lights 
and sound, and any other trap­
pings one finds on a stage. For 
construction, those who wield a 
handy hammer will be needed— 
usually restricted to boys. The 
props crew builds and paints the 
props used on the stage. This will 
be an interesting job, due to the 
fact that props will be seen by 
the audience from all angles. On 
the other hand, girls with a nim­
ble thumb sew the varied and 
brilliant costumes.
This article is a plea for all 
students with a little spare time 
to take part in one of the most ex­
citing productions given on Tech’s 
campus. So put on your old 
clothes, and be prepared to work. 
Keep an eye open for posted crew 
calls on the Scotch n’ Soda bulle­
tin board just outside Skibo. *
SCFC Conference 
Held On Saturday 
At Wilkinsburg Y
Almost every alternate Satur­
day there is an all day confer­
ence of some kind or another, and 
this past weekend was no ex­
ception. This conference was 
among representatives from all 
the Protestant religious organiza­
tions on campus, and was unique 
in the respect that it was held 
off campus — at the Wilkinsburg 
YWCA.
The conference was sponsored 
by the Student Christian Federa­
tion Council, and had as its pur­
pose the discussion of the coordi­
nation of the many individual 
groups on campus. For the past 
two years, this general coordina­
ting power has been in the sands 
of SCFC, and it was felt that per­
haps a change was needed.
SCFC has had the feeling that 
it is somewhat ineffectual in cer­
tain respects and has been won­
dering if its attempts at pro­
moting inter-group activities have 
been unsuccessful partly due to 
the fact that no one really wants 
intergroup activity. Also, the 
superstructure of the present or­
ganization, coupled with the vast 
number of committees which crop 
up from time to time, has succeed­
ed in making it rather unwieldy.
Types of Organization
These problems provided the 
basis for Saturday’s meeting. In 
small discussion groups, which 
conveniently segregated the stu­
dents from staff and faculty mem­
bers, ideas were expressed as to 
the type of overall organization 
which would be most effectivè 
and universally acepted.
The object was not to arrive at 
any immediate solution, but only 
to gather ideas, and in this respect 
it was a success. The general con­
sensus of opinion was that some 
overall organization is necessary, 
but that its powers and duties 
need to be better defined.
AIA Elects Neiv 
President; Plans 
Active Semester
The American Institute of Arch­
itects has recently elected as its 
new president David Scott, a sub­
senior who received the Rust En­
gineering first prize for his design 
of a printing plant this year. Un­
der the new president and his of­
ficers, the A.I.A. has become quite 
active. A busy spring schedule in­
cludes several lectures, movies, 
field trips, and parties.
Paul Schweikher, .future head of 
the architecture department, and 
Raymond Loewy, industrial de­
signer who has designed every­
thing from a coffee pot to the 
present Studebaker, are going to 
be speakers. The movie, “Life Be­
gins Tomorrow,” which included 
an interview with Picasso and 
Corbu and examples of their work 
was shown this week. All lectures 
and movies are open to these who 
are interested.
A field trip is in the making to 
Bear Run to see two of Frank 
Lloyd Wright’s houses. One is the 
famous Kaufmann house, Falling 
Water.
On the social side of the 
calendar, the big event coming up 
March 26 is the Bloom Blast which 
will take place in the drafting 
rooms. The Bloom Company sup­
plies the refreshments and music 
while the architectural students 
and faculty provide the entertain­
ment. With these events of which 
many are open to the school, the 
AIA has prepared a well-rounded 
spring program.
Seniors
If proofs are not returned 
to Gimbels by Saturday, 
March 17, your picture will 
not be in the yearbook. They 
do not have to be returned 
in person, and can be sent in 
the mail.
Scofch And Soda Guiding Powers
The Executive Board for this year's S n’ S production, Head 
Over Heels, is pictured above. Seated are: Dick O’Connor, Bob 
Hamilton, Carolou Fidder, John Kestner, John Durr, John Drgon, 
Jill Hirshenhorn, John Leonard, John Conboy, Harvey Breverman, 
Bob Smith, Luis de la Macorra. Standing: Michael Pollock, Ed 
Pasierb, Joe Harris, Raymond Ponzo.
Dave Brubeek 
To Pick 1956 
Thistle Queen
One of the biggest features of 
our yearbook is the Thistle queen 
and her court. The girls are chos­
en from the senior class, one rep­
resentative from each sorority and 
one from each tower in the dormi­
tory. In order to judge impar­
tially, the pictures are sent to a 
popular celebrity. Last year Dean 
Martin and Jerry Lewis chose Jean 
Wallace to be queen with Jimmy 
Fam, Jean Turri, and Diane Bo- 
binski as her court. This year Dave 
Brubeek will be our judge. The 
Thistle of 1956 will see four of 
the following girls as representa­
tives of Tech’s beauty.
Alpha Epsilon Phi...................
.......................Judy Hirschfield
Chi Omega.........Susie Armstrong
Delta Delta Delta.... Helena Lau
Delta Gamma...............Lin Smith
Kappa Alpha Theta.Claire Lawler 
Kappa Kappa Gamma..............
....................... Michael Pollock
Sigma Kappa............Nancy Kraus
“A” Tower ............Shirley .Wilson
“B” Tower ....Shirley Mendonca
“C” Tower.............’Bobbie Schultz
“D” Tower...............Sheila Graul
Thistle
The following organizations 
are requested to contact Joan 
Zepfel, Organizations Editor of 
the Thistle, Box 259, if they 
wish to have their picture in­
cluded in this year’s book. 
The deadline is i-riday, March 
16.
Science Club, American So­
ciety of Chemical Engineers, 
Society for Advancement of 
Management, Hillel Founda­
tion, Student Christian Feder­
ation, Roger Williams Fellow­
ship, Christian Science Organ­
ization, Film Arts Society, 
Dorm Bagpiper, The Cwens, 
Pi Tau Sigma, Phi Mu Alpha, 
Sigma Xi, and Pi Mu Epsilon.
Forum To Hear 
Professor Dawes 
On Civil Liberties
The sixth program in the Tech 
Community Forum series will be 
presented March 20 in Room 100 
of Porter Hall from 7:00 to 8:30 
p.m. Professor Norman H. Dawes 
of the history department will 
speak on the timely topic: “The 
Preservation of Our Civil Liber­
ties.” After Professor Dawes’ pre­
sentation there will be an open 
question and answer period. All 
members of the Tech community 
are invited to attend.
This series of eight monthly lec­
tures was established at Tech this 
year to encourage intellectual 
stimulation and interest in nation­
al affairs, and has thus far been 
well received. The next program is 
scheduled for April 17, when Pro­
fessor Herbert A. Simon of the 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion will discuss “The American 
Political Process.”
CFP Discusses 
Party Chaperones 
And Scheduling
Last week’s CFP meeting was 
unusually uneventful, and the 
small amount of business was 
handled so quickly that the meet­
ing occupied far less time than 
the social hour whieh followed. 
The financial report on Greek Sing 
and Swing was presented showing 
that the total expenses were con­
siderably under the budget. Judg­
ing sheets and music copies were 
returned to the individual frater­
nities.
The administration has passed 
approval on the proposed alumni 
interfraternity council, and plans 
are still proceeding for the estab­
lishment of such a group. A mat­
ter upon which the administra­
tion has not acted is the CFP mo­
tion pertaining to fraternity rent 
increases.
Other matters discussed were 
the prohibition of house parties in 
several cases during Sing week­
end due to lack of chaperones and 
an intercollegiate bowling tourna­
ment at Toledo. CFP is hoping to 
send a man to participate in this 
latter everft.
California Artist 
Displays At Tech
The work of Edgar Ewing, dis­
tinguished California painter, is 
currently on display in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts. Twenty-five oil 
paintings have been gathered for 
this show from private collections 
and from the Dalzell Hatfield Gal­
lery in Los Angeles. Mr. Ewing’s 
paintings have been seen by Pitts­
burghers at the last two Carnegie 
Institute ‘Internationals.”
He is associate professor of 
Fine Arts at the University of 
California. His work, while never 
a literal transcription of the siM>- 
ject, is always based on a concrete 
experience. These are colorful 
paintings of a long view of San 
Francisco, a derelict car, a portrait 
study, and many other scenes.
The exhibition in the Hawlett 
Gallery is open to the public 
everyday except Sundays, until 
March 21.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 13, 1956
NOQOZ
AWAKENERS
Concert
Allen Hood, violinist, and Ro­
land Leich, pianist and Carnegie 
Tech associate professor of music, 
will present a concert at First 
Unitarian Church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood Avenues, East End, 
Sunday evening, March 25, at 
8:00 p.m. The public is invited.
Mr. Hood, a native of Pitts­
burgh, is a student of Paul Sladek 
of Pittsburgh and has studied, also, 
with Paul Bernard of New York 
City. He won the 1951 Pittsburgh 
Concert Society contest, and has 
played many recitals in this city 
as well as playing with several 
Pennsylvania orchestras.
Mr. Leich was born in Evans­
ville, Indiana. After graduation 
from Curtis Institute and gradu­
ate study in composition at East­
man School of Music, Mr. Leich 
studied ’cello with Friedlander in 
Vienna. He taught at Dartmouth 
College before coming to Tech 
in 1946.
Their program will be:
Concerto in G Minor................
........................ Vivaldi-Nachez
Sonata in B Flat..............Mozart
Sonata in D Minor...........Brahms
Placement Bureau Announces 
MM Job Opportunities Good
Recital
Miss Louisa Hazen will present 
a ’cello recital Sunday, March 18, 
at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie Col­
lege of Fine Arts, Exhibition Hall, 
in partial fulfillment of her B.F.A. 
degree in Music.
Playhouse
Beginning a scheduled three 
weeks’ run at the Playhouse on 
March 10 was “The Torch Bear­
ers,” which promises to be one of 
the season’s brightest comedies.
Authored by Pulitzer Prize win­
ner, George Kelly, “The Torch 
Bearers” is a satire on the Little 
Theater movement of the 1920’s. 
Mr. Kelly’s comedy concerns the 
regal and righteous efforts of a 
fiuttery society matron who tries 
to bring “culture” to her com­
munity, by putting on amateur 
theatricals. Housewives are fired 
with ambitions ai.d husbands are 
ready to set fire to the theater in 
one of -America’s brightest come­
dies.
In the company 
of friends home-^gpBH 
ward bound you 
can make it a fcsfk!?
"party” all the wgi
way. There’s 
room to roam, IB 
time to visit, and 
nothing to worry about.
Restful coaches, 1ll~ ir '<)
luggage space, 
refreshments 
and swell meals 
en route. No 
tough driving on
crowded highways. No waiting for 
skies to clear. Yessir, the train is tops 
in transportation!
IMPORTANT ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FOR POSITIONS AT
NORTH AMERICAN'S 
COLUMBUS DIVISION
Give yourself a
"Scotch treat” by
teaming up with v-ira/
two or more friends
bound for your
home town. On Win/ 
trips of 100 miles 
or more, you’ll each 
save 25% on round- 
trip coach tickets using GROUP 
ECONOMY FARES!* And here’s 
another bargajn! Round up 25 0,?, 
more to travel long-distance togethft 
on the same homeward train. Then 
return singly or together, and you 
each save 28% of regular round- 
trip fare.
*Exapl /<w kxtl trattl bHwttn N*m> Ytrk- 
VasMng/n points last */ Lsncasttr, Ta.
NO your trav*t or tick*» agant 
NOW! Ask about ROO big mon#y 
saving plant I
North American Aviation, foremost in the design and production of 
military aircraft, has an established engineering team at its Columbus 
Division with prime responsibility for complete design and development 
of Navy aircraft.
The New FJ-4-Navy’s latest and fastest (*Ex ecu-is the most 
recent achievement at Columbus. Other, even more advanced designs 
are now being developed from initial concept to actual flight...creating 
top opportunities for virtually all types of graduate engineers.
Contact your Placement Office for an appointment with North 
American representatives.
Or write: Engineering Personnel Office, Dept. COL, North American 
Aviation, Columbus 16, Ohio.
Your doctor will tell you—a 
NoDoz Awakener is safe as an 
average cup of hot, black cof­
fee. Take a NoDoz Awakener 
when you cram for that exam 
...or when mid-afternoon 
brings on those “3 o’clock cob­
webs.” You’ll find NoDoz give» 
you a lift without a letdown... 
helps you snap back to normal 
and fight fatigue safely!
.. ..^,-35c ¡r.-vrr. 98«
Dorm) 60 tobl**» —
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC
SAFI AS COFFKt

---------------------------------------------------

r*
Tuesday, March 13, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre S
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. - Oakland
—first in fashion
All Seats Reserved: $1.75 - $2.50 - $3.00 - $3.75
(tax incl.)
8 0N SALF NOW: R. E. Balt* Agency ln Volkwcin's Music Stare, 
632 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh 22, Pa., Phone ATlantic 1-21»«. Als« at 
Horne'«, Gimbels. Mail Orders Also Accepted. Send check or money order 
payable to R. E. Balts, and mail with self-addressed stamped envelope to 
R. E. Baltz, care of Volkwein’s, «33 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh 22, Pa.
Puzzler
This column will appear regu­
larly in the Tartan beginning with 
this issue. Pi Mu Epsilon hopes 
that you will find the problems 
presented here interesting and 
challenging but not impossible. If 
you have any favorites which you 
think might stump a few people, 
don’t hesitate to send them in.
To satisfy our curiosity as to 
whether or not anyone will work 
the puzzles, we are going to pub­
lish a list of those who send in 
the correct solution, providing we 
receive more than five. Send 
them to the Tartan through intra­
school mail, along with your own 
suggestions for additional puzzles.
I.as week’s puzzler:
A cube is constructed of wire 
segments of 1 ohm resistance each.
a. What is the resistance be­
tween opposite corners?
b. What would be the resistance
of a similar four-dimensional 
cube? ,
c. Generalize the result into “n” 
dimensions.
R*ie Of Negro 
In U.S. Society 
Is Book Topic
By Grays McAllister
Today, when the role of the 
Negro in American society is a 
headline issue, “The Strange Case 
of Jim Crow” by C. W. Woodward 
is good reading. This book which 
wasiireleased by the Oxford Uni­
versity Press in 1955, gives an 
historical account of the problems 
beginning with the Reconstruc­
tion.
Jim Crow did not appear until 
the 1890’s, when Northerners ap­
proved and the Negroes were 
apathetic to the new laws. Before 
this time the South boasted of the 
good feelings and equality be­
tween the races. The author labels 
the ^present period the “Second 
Reconstruction” beginning with a 
relaxation of tensions in the 
1930’s. World War II brought tol­
eration in this country as a re­
action against Hitler’s atrocities 
in the name of racial superiority.
The present techniques of 
breaking down the racial barriers 
are use of legal means and pro­
paganda. The National Associa­
tion for the Advancement of 
Colled People is praised for pre­
venting violence, and churches 
and the armed forces are curtail- J 
ing segregation. Inequality of j 
[Continued on page 8]
Married Students’ 
Living Conditions 
At Extreme Loiv
By Faye Fisher
Many of us are doubtless un­
aware of the complete housing sit­
uation existing at Carnegie Tech. 
When we look at Morewood Gar­
dens, beautiful, modern Donner 
Hall, and the fraternity dwellings 
now in construction, it sometimes
I 1956
j CAREER
slips our minds that the married 
couples are still living in old gov­
ernment buildings built many 
years ago.
Mr. Tipker, head of men’s 
housing, informed me that there 
are only twenty-four units con­
sisting of two bedrooms, a kitchen, 
living room, and bath. Since vet­
erans have first choice, many non­
veterans stay on the waiting list 
for years. A stove and refrigera­
tor were supplied when the units 
[Continued on page 8]
ENGINEERING
SENIORS...
North American 
Aviation 
Los Angeles
will interview here
APRIL 10,1956
Comfort has always
been a college requirement
And, Arrow underwear offers pure comfort many 
position. The Arrow Tee has a neckband that 
won't enlarge, keep its good fit always. $1.25. 
Boxer shorts, with contour seat, in novelty patterns 
or solid colors give you style with no-bind wear. 
$1.50. Arrow Guards (knitted ' 
briefs), offer the same complete 
comfort as all Arrow 
underwear. $1.20.
SHIRTS * TIES 
HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
SYRIA MOSQUE
PITTSBURGH, PA.
2
 IV CL — 8:00 P.M. andBlQ Shows 10:30 P. M. 
WED., MARCH 21
9 VOL.49—N
OtxiloAdboi!!
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
5722 Central Ave. HI 1-7011
•‘Cok«" it a registered trade-mark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
That’s where the pause that 
refreshes with ice-cold Coke began.
Now it’s enjoyed fifty million times a day.
Must be something to it. And there is. Have aa 
ice-cold Coca-Cola and see... right now.

---------------------------------------------------

Fage 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March IS, 195«
Editorial—
Parking
Either cars are getting more numerous or 
else parking areas are shrinking when we 
aren’t looking, because the problem of find­
ing any parking places within sight of the 
campus during school hours is one of major 
magnitude, as any of some four or five 
hundred commuters can attest. The choice 
spots outside Skibo are invariably gone by 
7:45 or so and all other legal places go soon 
afterwards. The Pittsburgh police depart­
ment takes a very dim view of parking by 
fire plugs and on other yellow lines and 
lately has been rather generous with their 
ten dollar tickets. The ban on Morewood 
Avenue parking has not succeeded in foster­
ing any good feelings toward the police de­
partment either.
Although the removal of the barracks 
was expected to solve the trouble, it hasn’t.
Parking arrangements in that odd shaped 
lot are of such a random nature that the 
cars often look like a jumble in one of those 
carnival bumpmobile rides for frustrated 
drivers.
One solution would be to paint all the yellow lines 
black, and remove all fire plugs and no parking signs. An­
other idea would be to run shuttle buses between school and 
the available parking spaces in the depths of Schenley Park. 
But the most reasonable suggestion for improvement is to 
install dividers in the barracks lot. This would minimize 
confusion in that area at a minimum of expense. It would 
also help if CFP’s suggestion that parking be permitted on 
one side of Morewood Avenue were adopted by the city of 
Pittsburgh. Any attempt at alleviation of the present con­
gestion would be welcomed. *
THE PROBLEM
IDEAL SOLUTIONSTEH
Panliell Now Panhel
The Tartan wishes to announces the official change of 
the abbreviation for Panhellenic Council from Panhell to 
Panhel, effective immediately. This radical departure from 
our former policy was inspired by the receipt of a most 
courteous and well-written letter from the secretary of Pan­
hellenic Council, which explained certain basic rules of gram­
mar for our benefit and requested the change. (At the 
author’s request, the letter is not being printed).
We have graciously acquiesed to the wishes of the coun­
cil, and if any other organization or individual desires some 
standardization of name spelling, we will do so. Not too 
long ago, we standardized the spelling of Baron Elliott’s 
surnace, as it had habitually been appearing with various 
numbers of l’s and t’s.
Vegetable
The odd botanical growths which have recently appear­
ed in the corners of grass plots are not freaks of nature, 
but are the latest development of Alphi Phi Omega. Great 
research has been required to perfect this specimen, which 
is characterized by its lack of leaves, and its flat white flow­
er. The flower is in season now, and may be readily observed 
still clinging to most of these plants. Various entertaining 
inscriptions are superimposed upon its plain white back­
ground.
Neither the plant nor its flower are to be picked, and 
it might prove unfortunate to be caught purloining one by 
an A Phi O.' These plants can be a valuable addition to
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
Ml“eum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rate* eall SChenley 1-9851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students oI Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Edtter-ta-Chief ...............................................................................................................Robert Russel]
iMhM Maiifir ................................................................................................................Vic Shiry
Neva Editer.................... ..................Marjo King
•pert« Edtter........................ ............... ......................................................Tom Wright
Cepy Editor.........................................................................................................................Richard Fox
Feeteres Editer.................... .................................. .....................................Stephanie Mackay
Entered as second class matter on OooDer 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 38, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College 
publisher* representative. 43« Madison Ave, New York City. Subscriptions 91.19
Carnegie Tech, and can prevent the onset 
of certain larger and more unsightly varie­
ties which have many trunks with intercon­
necting wires, and are known as fences. One 
small matter for worry is the fact that there 
has been some conjecture as to the type of 
seed the present variety will produce, and 
whether it will multiply rapidly or not at all.
Over The Skibo Table
By Marshall R. Pihl
Joe Szewc, has big feet. ®
That means too, that has big shoes . . * and I’ve 
got to fill them as I take over this feature of his: 
“Over the Skibo Table.” It would take a guy with 
a big head to think that he could fill Joe’s shoes 
in this job. I’m flattered by Joe’s blind trust in 
me. (I sort of think one eye’s still open.)
* * *
Anyone want a donut? Mike Pollock of 2C in 
Morewood Gardens has got 27 dozen of them at 
last count. You see, Mike sells donuts, coffee and 
other goodies over in the Drama Department when 
there’s a crew working there building scenery and 
making costumes for a show. But when a show is 
running and there’s no crew, she hasn’t got any 
business. This lack of business Mike expects. But 
she wasn’t ready when the donut company didn’t 
stop delivering, even after repeated requests.
At this writing, it is reported that they’re still 
arriving at the receiving room at Morewood . . . 
dozens and dozens of donuts. They arrive in in­
finite variety . . . chocolate covered, vanilla cov­
ered, sugar, filled, jellied. And now Mike’s adver­
tising a new line . . . ROCK CAKE.
Keep your eyes on the Tau Delts. That group is 
going to have a real tough soccer team to field, 
if they live up to the work they’ve been putting 
into practice of late. Until last Saturday, workouts 
have been on the informal side, but now they’re 
going into scheduled practice. Here’s a fraternity 
that’s on the way up, in my eyes. They certainly 
deserve a pat on the back for their offering at 
Greek Sing. They may not have any voices there, 
but they mude a showing — that’s good to see.
* * *
It’s the hardest-working group that comes up 
with cups in intramural competitions here at 
Tech. No sooner was Greek Sing over than ATO 
was out at the first hill on the Carnival Buggy 
course, working out with their practice buggy. 
Are they going to take another first? They de­
serve it if no one else will put in as much Svork.
I would like to see some more fraternities out 
there pushing the old four-wheelers around. Let’s 
go groups!
* * *
Under The Skibo Table. “Please, Mommy —
can I have some Regent Pop. Please, Mommy? 
Huh?” UURRRRGGGGHHH! If I ever see a bottle 
of Regent Pop, I swear that I’ll take the blasted 
thing and put it where it’ll do the most good — 
sarsaparilla, and all!!* * *
Merrie Christmas, and a Lousy New Year.
* * •
Little Quickies: This writer hears that WRCT 
might have a buggy at Spring Carnival—radio 
controlled? ... A Phi O’s "Go away, I want to 
be a lawn” really works . . . Who is Miss Auditor 
on Joe Szewc’s WRCT show, “Auditor”? . . . Tech 
may have its own Bridey Murphyl
Inquiring Reporter 
Council Planning
By Sally Day
Student Council has set up a new constitution 
which is fashioned after the United States Consti-* 
tutioh. Since this constitution will, if passed, af­
fect the whole student body, the TARTAN felt 
that the Inquiring Reporter should be devoted to 
this question.
Barbara Meyers, sophomore, secretarial—The 
one thing to which I object is the fact that Student 
Council will have the power to lift the charter of 
an organization violating any rules set up by Stu­
dent Council.
Sally Beltz, junior, mathematics—I think that"' 
the new constitution is a very good idea in that 
changing the old one would give Student Council 
the power it ought to have now. I also think that 
from the start Student Council should not get 
mixed up in trivialities because this Student Coun­
cil is so mixed up in its own red tape. They should 
enforce the rules they set down in this new con­
stitution.
Sally Dean, junior, home ec—This new consti­
tution is a good idea, especially the division oil":, 
powers. It is more specific and concentrated than 
the old one. In this way each person will know 
his specific job. I think that the new constitution 
is probably just as good as the present constitu­
tion, and it may be better. There is a lot of thought 
behind Student Council’s new idea. Naturally, it 
will take time to see how it works out.
Jo Lacey, sophomore, general studies—It is well 
written considering what they had to work with. 
The representation needs to be revised. I don’t 
think Student Council should have the right td^ 
revoke the charters of organizations on campus. 
Something should be changed there. It is a very 
very good job, but it needs some revision. I like 
the fashioning after the United States Constitution.
Stephanie Mackay, junior, general studies—I 
wonder if people around campus know anything 
about the new constitution. It seems to me that 
people hear that a new constitution has been writ­
ten and, because the old one was reputedly so in­
effective, think that this a good thing for no 
substantial reason. As a matter of fact, the new ' 
constitution does give more power to Council, and 
is essentially well-constructed. However, there are 
flaws in it, and the time to criticize is now, when 
the new government is still in its formative stage.
One substantial reason that the present govern­
ment is so weak is the lack of interest and support 
from the student body. The revision of the constitu­
tion was in part to renew interest in the government 
by publicizing it, giving it more strength, and in­
cluding a greater percentage of the student body in 
its houses. If, however, the student body hasn’t * 
even the interest to look into the revision, to find 
out just how this new constitution will affect him 
and his organizations, the new government will 
be as ineffectual as the last.
Notas de un Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra —
The Dorm Mixer turned out to be a pleasant 
affair, and we believe that both the Mel Hayden 
Ensemble and the free pizza helped to make it so. 
After the Mixer, I helped the staff of WRCT dis­
connect the lines for the remote control transmis­
sion. Maybe not many of you know that WRCT 
has a transmitter in the basement of Morewood 
Gardens, and maybe only very few of my male 
readers have ever been down there. Well, it is 
a very interesting place. There you will find quite 
an assortment of things, from coffee and Pepsi - 
machines to telephone substations. There you will 
also hear various sounds, from the wosh-wosh of 
the steam furnace to shrieks, but we could not 
figure out where these last sounds came from. I 
am still wondering ... (
* * *
I have heard that this year Scotch and Soda is 
planning a number of new and different publicity 
stunts. Here, I give you a couple of samples. To 
begin with, they will have a televised show through 
WQED. This will be the first time that S n’ S is-* * 
allowed to have a TV show and I believe that it^ 
will set a precedent for future due consideration. 
Also, this year S n’ S is already organizing a cam­
paign to elect Miss ‘Head Over Heels’ Scotch and 
Soda Queen for 1956. The Queen will be elected 
from among all the undergraduates of Tech. Both 
organizations and independent groups will be asked 
to propose candidates. Voting by the male stu­
dents will decide the ten lucky finalists. Then, 
some time after Easter vacation, judging and the 
crowning of the Queen will be followed by others |v 
that will be more interesting still, but they haven’t 
been planned yet . . .
So, with nothing else for the moment let me 
just add hasta la vlsia and buena suerte • • •

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 13, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
Tech's Rifle Team
Front Row: Warren, Cronaeur, Robinson, Herr (Team Captain), 
Polanski, Burtner, Brown. Back Row: Darby, Wesner, Schuler, Humes, 
Plugee, Capt. Trefz (Team Adviser), M/Sgt. Evans (Coach). Ab­
sent: John, Michael, Nuzzo.
Marksmen Cinch Share of Title
The Carnegie Tech Rifle Team assured themselves of at least a 
?ie for first in the Greater Pittsburgh Rifle League by defeating 
W & J at Washington, Pa., Friday evening by a score of 1403 to 
1368. Tech finished the season with 10 wins and 2 losses. West
Virginia is currently second with*----------------------------------------——---------
a 9-2 record followed by Du
IM Night To Be Biggest Show Yet
quesne with 7 and 3. WVU’s final 
standing hinges on their last 
match with Duquesne. Should 
WVU win they would tie Tech 
' ¿r the league championship.
It has been an uphill struggle 
for Tech this season. After their 
first three matches they were in 
sixth place with one win and two 
losses. The two early season losses 
were one each to WVTJ and Du­
quesne. Tech’s win over W & J 
was the ninth in a row, including 
avenging wins over WVU and Du­
quesne. The Tartans scored 1410 
points in beating WVU; this is 
_Iie highest team score in the 
league this year.
Captain of the team is John C. 
Herr of Shippensburg, Pa. At the 
ed of last season John was 
awarded a “Golden Bullet” by the 
National Rifle Association, signifi­
cant of his being named as one of 
the ten “All American” intercol­
legiate marksmen in the country. 
John’s score of 294 out of 300 pos­
sible is the league individual in­
dividual high score for this season.
Last year he twice tied the GPRL 
record of 295.
Along with league matches, this 
season’s firing also included the 
William Randolph Hearst Trophy 
Match, the Society of American 
Military Engineers competition, 
and the Second Army Intercol­
legiate Match. Tech journeys to 
Annapolis next Saturday to shoot 
in the NRT Sectional Match.
In addition to Tech, WVU, and 
Duquesne, the other teams in the 
Greater Pittsburgh Intercollegiate 
Rifle League are the University of 
Pittsburgh, W & J, Geneva, and 
Indiana State Teachers.
1956 Sweepstakes
All organizations interested 
in entering the 1956 Spring 
Carnival Buggy Competition, 
please have a representative at 
the next meeting. This will be 
held at the Alpha Tau Omega 
House, Thursday, March 15, at 
7:00 p.m.
Track Season Almost Upon Us
By Bernie Seigel
With spring coming on plenty fast, Coach Bob Carman wipes 
dust off all his trackers who have been idly sitting on the athletic 
department shelves. The water drains off the bowl and the boys 
in the long woolies start their endless circumnavigation of the hard
cinder oval. This year, like all the*---------------------------------------------------—
A.^ist, finds a lot of boys stretching, 
pulling and running in certain 
hope that they will be able to 
bring home a winner. But the 
task will be tough.
Gone are all three men, byare
route of graduation, who ac­
counted for more points per meet 
than the opposition. John Mull­
er, Mai Gillies and Ward Jones 
are three men Coach Carman will 
have a hard time replacing. There 
r, a great lack of experience on 
the squad and only a small nu­
cleus of last year’s thin clads re­
mains.
Bryant Twins, Distance Men
Back for a try at capturing dis­
tance honors are Bill and Larry 
Bryant. These twin turbines are 
expected to do the heaviest load 
of carrying in the mile and two 
mile. Arnie Olds is back from the 
^rmy but his two years of rela- 
7Ive inactivity have made it dif­
ficult for Arnie to regain old 
form. Young Eric Ottervic, a 
freshman, is a good possibility for 
the two mile, but lack of college 
running experience will be a 
drawback.
The middle distance events, 
namely the 440 and half mile pro­
vide more interesting problems. 
Many have been called but few 
•»$¿11 be chosen, There is only one 
hvan on the squad who has any 
experience at the college level to 
run their events. He’s Bill Hein- 
eke, holder of the Varsity “C” 
Club scholarship and the only re­
turning man on the relay team. 
Freshman hopefuls include Bill 
Whitman and Rick Garcia as the 
possible standouts. Sprinters are 
plentiful with plucky B u c k y 
Smith, the Atlanta gazelle, back 
for another start. Buck also broad 
jumps and may have to fill in on 
the relay. He’ll definitely be a 
work horse for the Plaid this sea­
son. Hurdlers are scarce but big. 
Jim Moore is expected to take 
over where Dick Stofan left off.
Now Running Events Important
In the field events, Jack Reck- 
er is using all his determination 
to train some more boys in the 
delicate art of shot putting so 
that Tech is expected to heap up 
in this field. High jumpers and 
discus throwers are not in evid­
ence, however, so that the shot 
men will probably have to double 
in events. Long Carnegie’s neme­
sis, polevaulters have suddenly 
arrived on the scene. They’re 
freshmen, but capable.
This doesn’t entirely complete 
the track picture but gives an 
idea of what is coming up. The 
competition around the circuit has 
stiffened in the past few years 
and along with it, Tech’s 6kivvy 
crew has improved. The job ahead 
is cut out for Coach Carman and 
his troops. If any students happen 
to fall over something in short 
pants with spiked feet around four 
thirty in the afternoon, don’t be 
alarmed. It’s just one of our own 
harriers going to work out.
On Friday, March 23, the eighth* 
annual IM Night will be held in 
the gymnasium. The festivities 
will start with a preliminary bas­
ketball game, followed by the fin­
als for the campus championship. 
Between the halves of the cham­
pionship game there wiH be the 
finals for the fencing champion­
ship in both the male and female 
classes, and the various trophies 
won during the year will be dis­
tributed by Ray Matthews of the 
Pittsburgh Steelers. Following the 
game will be a sweater hop with 
the music of Bob Rawsthorne and 
his band. Guys, even if you don’t 
have a date, drop over to the gym 
anyway and maybe you’ll meet 
some nice girl. And girls, there 
should be some guys without dates.
Plank Jousting
Any campus organization 
that wishes to enter the an­
nual Spring Carnival Plank 
Jousting should have a repre­
sentative at the first organiza­
tional meeting. Seven men will 
comprise a team. The first 
meeting will be held at the 
Alpha Tau Omega house, at 
4:30 on March 27.
Sirtácoiìporcócope
By Bernie Siegel
At present there will appear to be a lull in the varsity sports 
scene around Tech, as sports activity shifts from winter sports to 
the out-door activities. With track, tennis and golf on the horizon, 
we already find Coach Carman’s thinclads hard at work on the field 
and cinder path. Tennis and golf are both anxiously waiting for the 
sun to bring a little more warmth to the Smokey City. As the March 
winds die down we will undoubtedly see more activity on the tennis 
court and golf course. As we take this brief moment to look back at 
the past performances of our fall and winter sports, we can well 
be proud of the records turned in by cross country, football and 
basketball. With the competition in our class getting heavier, and 
the Tartans still advocating a program of de-emphasis, we can be 
well proud of the records to date. Perhaps such a de-emphasis 
program does hurt the over all school spirit,, but it is felt that a 
better type of athlete is produced. Here at Tech you will find the 
boys are on a team mainly because they love the sports.
This is very important I assure you, but it does not always 
insure us of a winning team or successful season. What the boys 
need at times is a little support from their fellow men, and this
means you. Now that the strongly heralded sports of football and
basketball are over, it does not mean that the Tartans have com­
pleted another season of varsity sporting, for there are still the 
equally important spring sports;
These activities are not held in the seclusion of some secret 
meeting place, but instead take place right here on our campus. 
So how about your taking a little time from your studies; get out 
in the fresh air and sunshine and cheer our boys on to victory. All 
three sports show signs of turning in a pretty fair record, and all,
I feel, they need now is a little support from the student body.
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Cliff Downer (right), A.B. in Mathematics, ’49, M.S. in Civil Engineering,
'50, Harvard, on the site of a building construction project.
“Projects you can sink your teeth into”
Clifford J. Downer started his tele­
phone career in the building engineering 
department of The Southern New Eng­
land Telephone Company. At present he 
is working with the Bell System’s manu­
facturing unit, Western Electric, helping 
to build facilities for housing a Conti­
nental Air Defense project. His assign­
ment: a key liaison job in supervising a 
subcontractor’s work on a several million 
dollar construction operation.
“One of the most interesting features 
of my present job,” says Cliff, “is making 
decisions on the spot. For example, draw­
ings showed vfhere bedrock for footings 
would be reached. Excavations revealed 
a poor grade of rock. How much further
down do we go? A hundred workers and 
tons of equipment are waiting for the 
decision.
“There's a lot of future for a civil en­
gineer in the telephone business. New and 
smaller types of telephone equipment will 
probably change our ideas about how 
telephone buildings should be built. It’s 
fascinating work, all right. And broaden­
ing, too, because it s leading me to other 
engineering fields.
‘"It looks to me as if there are real 
challenges ahead — projects you can sink 
your teeth into. Besides, Tm convinced 
the telephone business recognizes and 
regards personal industriousness and 
drive.”
Interesting career opportunities of all kinds are 
also offered by other Bell Telephone Companies 
and Western Electric Company, Bell Telephone 
Laboratories and Samlia Corporation. Your 
placement officer has more information about 
these companies.
T*l«pt«on*
System
/

---------------------------------------------------

rage 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 13, 1956
'Eftfineers frm Pratt fc Whitney Aircraft waiting for classes to begin at R.P.I.’s new graduate
IM Basketball Reaches Climax 
As All League Titles Are Won
In the finals of the regular season play last week, the only 
league lead to change hands was the Skibo League.
The hectic week showed the Delts climbing from third to first 
with three victories. They topped TX, then won an overtime game 
with the Englishmen by 34-33.?-------------------------------------------------------
The Delts woke up in the second 
half of that game to come back 
and tie the score at the end of reg­
ulation time and won in overtime. 
In the playoff game which this 
victory necessitated, the Delts 
again showed their nerves of 
steel. Down one point with 30 
seconds remaining, they broke up 
the game with two quick baskets 
by Spohn and Capul. To the vic­
tor went the league title.
Tartan League 
The Trojans were inactive in 
the Tartan League, which they 
had clinched weeks before. Cit- 
com topped PK to break their 
second place tie, thus moving in­
to the playoffs. The top Plaid 
League teams, the Rockets and 
APO, played each other to wind 
up tne season. The Rockets won, 
42-25, to remain on top. They and 
APO now enter the playoffs.
Kiltie League 
Kappa Sigma breezed to their 
Kiltie L,eague title with easy vic­
tories over the TX “nothings 
and BSR “B”. DU “A”, with its 
only loss being KS, remained in 
second place.
Scot League 
The Tech Gems completed their 
season undefeated by taking PK 
“F” by forfeit, and with them tne 
league crown. The Obelisks also 
topped PK “F” to remain out of 
reach of SN “A”, and clinch sec­
ond place.
Tech League
The leaders in tne Tech League 
remained as they were, as AiO 
kept its perfect slate by beating 
PK “B” t>9-38, and the idle TX
BSR Takes Title 
In Table Tennis
Table Tennis
BSR “A” topped the IM table 
tennis championship last week by 
defeating TX, the Tartan League 
cnampion, in a tight match. How­
ever, BSR “A” was ahead all the 
way and is well deserving of their 
title as the champion intramural 
table tennis team.
In the semi finals BSR “A,” the 
winners of the Plaid League, 
topped the Skibo League leading 
Obelisks; meanwhile TX was 
whipping the Delts, second plac­
ers in the Plaid League. The quar­
ter finals found the Obelisks beat­
ing BSR “B,” the Delts beating 
SAE, with BSR “A” and TX, the 
eventual semi-finalists, receiving 
byes.
One of the unique attributes of 
this year’s table tennis season was 
the speed with which the teams 
played off their matches. Just be­
cause it wasn’t stated by which 
Christmas the season was to end 
it is not to be assumed that De­
cember of 1956 was meant.
IM Call Pool 
The playoffs in call pool are 
underway with an Obelisk team 
assured of the championship. This 
is made possible by the fact that 
two Obelisk teams, Obelisk “B,” 
Thistle League winners, and Obe­
lisk “C,” Skibo League winners, 
are in the finals. In the semi­
finals, Obelisk “C” topped the 8- 
Balls in two straight matches, and 
Obelisk “B” outlasted the Spot­
ters to win 2 of .3 matches.
The final regular season stand­
ings found Obelisk “C,” the Spot­
ters, and the Delts finishing 1, 2, 
3, in the Skibo League and the 
Obeli?k “B,” the 8-Balls, and SAE 
leading the Thistle League,
IM Bridge 
The intramural bridge play offs 
find PKA “A” and the Obelisks 
due to meet in the championship 
match this week. Since these two 
teams have been favored to meet 
in the finals all season the game 
should prove to be quite a contest.
In the semi-finals PKA beat 
TDP and the Obelisk team won 
over BSR. The quarter finals found 
the Tau Delts beating BTP, the 
Obelisks beating SAE, and PKA 
and BSR drawing byes.
team remained in second place.
Half of the playoff games in the 
first round were completed last 
[Continued on page 8]
Soccer Entries Due
The deadline for soccer en­
tries has been moved up a 
week to March 20; play will 
begin March 22. All those in­
terested in entering teams see 
Mr. Birdy in the Gym.
Individual Titles 
Won In Wrestling
On Wednesday, March 7, at 4:30 
the CIT intramural wrestling 
championships were decided. The 
matches this year were both col­
orful and exciting and kept the 
fans on the edge of their seats 
throughout the entire contest.
In the first match of the after­
noon the students saw TX’s crafty 
Ray Benzinger win a hard fought 
decision over powerful Ray Bebb 
of KS. An escape and reversal for 
Benzinger proved to be the de­
ciding factor as he won out by 
the score of 7 to 4.
Match number two was also 
taken by TX as Elikan built up an 
early lead to win over independent 
Gesualdi, for the 135-pound class 
trophy.
The third match gave the KS’s 
something to cheer about about 
as their star mat man, Andy An­
derson, pinned struggling Dick 
Hepps of TX to bring the 150- 
pound title to Clyde Street. The 
pin was 1:30 of the second round.
The 180-pound boys provided 
the wrestling for the fifth match 
of the afternoon. This bout was 
the surprise of the tournament for 
so smoothly did O. C. Brinkerhoff 
press the shoulders of DU’s John 
Streit to the mat, only he and the 
referee were aware of the pin.
The final bout of the day was 
the most interesting. It found the 
pride of TX Ray Benzinger up 
against rugged “Rod” Rodriguez of 
KS for the 165-pound title. The 
boys were, about even until the 
third period when Benzinger suc­
cessfully pinned the shoulders of 
Rodriguez to the mat to not only 
win his class, but also to tie KS 
for team points.'
The 125-pound class title was 
won by Zirkle who had no chal­
lengers within his weight group. 
| Jay Murray walked away with the 
j heavyweight decision as he also
Badminton Clinic
The Allegheny County As­
sociation for Health, Physical 
Education, and Recreation 
will hold a badminton clinic 
this Wednesday, March 14, 
from 8 to 10 p.m. The clinic 
will be presented by many of 
the top district players, who 
have formed the Shadyside 
Badminton Players.
Different aspects of play 
will be demonstrated by the 
group headed by Dr. and Mrs. 
Jules La Barthe, and this will 
be followed by a period of 
spectator play under the 
Shadyside group’s instruction. 
The clinic is free, and coin­
cides well with the badminton 
tourney now being held.
had no offers to be dethroned from 
his two-year reign of that class.
What’s doing
at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft
R. P. I. Dedicates 
Graduate Study Center 
Near Main Plant
study center. Courses, leading to advanced degrees in specialized belds, include Aeronautical 
Engineering, Applied Mechanics, Higher Mathematics, Thermodynamics, Nuclear Technology.
Engineers participating in graduate study nregram comple­
ment their classroom training with laboratory experience 
gained through their daily employment.
The dedication last month of a full-fledged graduate 
center near the Pratt & Whitney Aircraft plant 
in East Hartford, Connecticut, set a precedent in 
relationships between industry and education. At 
a cost of $600,000, P & W As parent company 
purchased and equipped the building that was pre­
sented outright to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
for its Hartford Graduate Center. Moreover, an 
additional grant by this industry leader to R.P.I. 
was used to establish a liberal fellowship fund. Since 
last fall, when classes first began, this tuition-assis- 
tance plan has functioned to assure advanced educa­
tion for Pratt and Whitney Aircraft’s applied sci­
entists and engineers.
The new graduate study center, 115 miles away 
from its home campus in upper New York State, 
is staffed by a resident, full-time faculty. Engineers 
at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft and other companies 
in the vicinity are able now to continue their educa­
tion without interrupting their normal employment.
Designed to raise the level of knowledge and to 
broaden the base from which research can be ap­
proached, this unique new concept of education 
will lead enrolled engineers to greater achievement 
in their careers through pursuit of advanced degrees 
in specialized fields from the nation's oldest engi­
neering college.
The vast facilities required for practical application of advanced technical knowledge to the 
development of future aircraft engines are boused in P & W At Willgoos Laboratory — 
the world’s most complete, privately ownea turbine laboratory.
R. P. I.’s Hartford Graduate Center, a modern, one-story 
building in a suburban location, is just a few minutes* 
drive from the P Sc W A plant. Student facilities include 
a large lecture room, a library, classrooms, seminar rooms» 
a cafeteria, and parking areas.
World’s foremost designer and builder of aircraft engines
PRATT St WHITNEY AIRCRAFT
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 
¦ AST HARTFORD O. CONNECTICUT

---------------------------------------------------

Father Crowley 
Speaks On Art 
To Newman Club
On Sunday evening, March 4, 
1956, Fr. Crowley of the Duquesne 
University spoke on •‘Christian 
Art Appreciation.” He said: “Art 
is man’s highest expression of in­
telligence and emotion, and yet 
even at its highest we know it is 
not wholly worthy of God. The 
Church should be built around the 
altar. Many times, however, a 
beautiful building is erected and 
then an altar that will fit it, so 
that many times the altar is not 
the most important part of the 
churches it should be. All that is 
necessary Tor an altar is a crucifix 
and six candles, but in many 
churches more attention is given to 
ornate statues and pictures. Many 
modern churches now could pass 
for super-markets, because of their 
design. A Church should be sim­
ple but not barren. Too little is as 
bad as too much.”
Fr. Crowley displayed two chal­
ices he had designed, one of gold 
with an ivory carved node, and 
the other was silver with a green 
marble node. He also showed three 
beautiful vestments he designed. 
His mother had sewed two of them, 
while nuns made the third gar­
ment.
After Fr. Crowley’s talk hot 
chocolate and cookies were serv­
ed, and then Ed Vandergrift show­
ed interesting colored slides which 
he took while in Germany, 
Switzerland, London, New York, 
and Washington, D. C.
On March 18, Dr. Frederick 
Rossini, head pf the chemistry de­
partment at Carnegie Tech will 
speak on “Can Educated People 
Be Catholics?”
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
A Representative 
From the 
Newport News Shipbuilding 
and Dry Dock Company 
Will Interview 
Applicants for 
Engineering Positions 
in the Placement Office 
on March 21, 1956
OH YOU KIOS! LUCKY OROOOLES!
WHAT'S THIS? For solution, see
paragraph below.
DROODLES—POCKET EDITION. There’s a pocket 
edition of almost everything these days. Why 
not Droodles? This one’s titled: Shirt pocket of 
Lucky Smoker. This smoker might give you the 
shirt off his back—but he’d sure hang on to that 
pack of Luckies. Reason: Luckies taste better. 
You see, they’re made of fine tobacco—light, 
mild, good-tasting tobacco that’s TOASTED 
to taste even better. Matter of fact, you’ll say 
Luckies are the best-tasting cigarette you ever 
smoked! Better pocket a pack today!
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
«rfS TOASTS0',
HOLIDAY TRAFFIC 
LEAVING CITY
Thomas Marra Drexel Tech
AUTO 
(SNOWED IN)
John Bilisoly Purdue
FLAGPOLE SITTER 
ON CLOUDY DAY
Edward Zimmerman U. of Denver
COLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER LUCKIES!
Luckies lead all other brands, regular or king 
size, among 36,075 college students questioned 
coast to coast. The number-one reason: Luckies 
taste better.
Tuesday, March 13, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
affair. Besides gifts, entertainment 
and speeches, there will be a swiss 
steak dinner. Tickets may be ob- 
tained from any stuaent council 
member or by request to the Plaid.
On May 12, instead of the usual 
Monte Carlo, a square dance will 
be held. More information on this 
event will appear in future issues 
of the Plaid.
Mr. Matt Bertovich and Mr. 
Floyd Byers were appointed to 
check on the matter of point dis­
tribution. Points are given for 
work done on social activities, and& -----------------------------------------------------Evening Sorority 
Meets And Accepts
Lryvuix
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ............................................................................................... Emily Muhic
Reporter ........................................................................... John Van Holt, Jr.
A Spring Pledge
On Sunday, February 26, 1956, 
Phi Gamma Pi Sorority held a 
business meeting at the Carnegie 
Union. The meeting was opened 
by the president, Audrey Wiskow. 
Misses Mary Alice Peterson, Mar­
ilyn Phipps, and Audrey Wiskow 
were selected as the nominating 
committee for potential officers for 
the 1956-1957 year.
Voting was held and Miss Myr­
tle Curtis was accepted as a new 
pledge. She will be officially in­
itiated into the sorority on Sun­
day, March 11, 1956. Mrs. Emily 
Muhic will be pledge mistress. 
The initiation tea will be in j 
” charge of the pledges who were 
accepted last fall. They are: Mrs. 
Dorothy Lawman, Misses Mary 
Alice Chilleo, Frances Dubich, 
Sandra Dunn, and Evelyn Kaney.
Miss Marilyn Phipps was nam­
ed as chairman of the banquet 
committee. The banquet will be 
held in May.
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER - Cleaner, fresher. Smootherf
PRODUCT OR AMEBICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OP CIQAKBTTES•A.T.C*.
ES Student Council Lays Plans
For Remainder
ES Council held a meeting oi 
vich, president, presided at the 
son, secretary, read the minutes 
McKelway, and Mr. D. E. Strick 
way, George Bogovich,
Dawes, and Byron May were 
pointed to find out whether Nu 
Sigma Alpha Fraternity, which 
an honorary and social group, 
should continue or be dropped 
% from the societies on campus.
The Engineer’s Banquet will be 
held on April 28. Quite a few gifts 
have been .donated and two of 
them are a clock-radio and a 
$75.00 grinding wheel. Mr. Vin­
cent Golobic is chairman of the
Of School Year
March 4, 1956. Mr. Matt Berto- 
neeting. Miss Mary Alice Peter- 
of the previous meeting. Mr. D. 
attended the session. Mr. McKel-
anyone having 20 or more is en­
titled to a key and dinner.
The question of whether to pub- 
an address book every year 
discussed. Few comments 
were received after the book was 
published last fall. It is hoped 
more students will let Mr. Mc­
Kelway know whether or not we 
should have such a book.
The next meeting will be held 
on April 8 instead of April 1, 
Easter Sunday.
Personalsi*Wanted: More cooperation in the 
reporting and publishing of the 
Plaid.
Wanted: More active members for 
all fraternities, sororities and 
clubs to replace the inactive 
members.
Wanted: Opinions on whether we 
should publish another address 
book, and whether or not it has 
been of any value to you.
^ Wanted: More orders for tickets 
to the Engineers Banquet to be 
held on April 28, 1956.
Lost: Interest by those failing to 
attend meetings and social func­
tions at school.
Found: Interest and pleasure by 
those attending meetings and 
social functions at school.
Found: Education and interesting 
trips to other countries via col­
ored slides at Newman Club 
£ meetings.
Wanted: More orders for the This­
tle; orders accepted in the Reg­
istrar’s office.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, March IS, li5#
; #W£ \
Review—
[Continued from page 3]
education which causes inequal­
ity of opportunity is the central 
issue in the Jim Crow contest, 
today. This book offers surprises 
for the complacent Northerner 
who sits in judgment of Alaba­
mans in the Miss Lucy Case and 
is recommended for anyone who 
wants a different view on this 
important issue. “The Strange 
Case of Jim Crow” is available 
on the Leisure Reading Shelf of 
the Main Library.
Housing—
[Continued from page 3] 
were new, but many are no longer 
serviceable due to age and wear. 
The chief advantages to these 
dwellings lies in their closeness to 
campus and their low rent ($40- 
$45 per month, dependent upon 
number of children).
The Dean of Men’s Office har­
bors additional information and a 
file of homes and apartments avail­
able to the student. This in no 
way solves the problem of the 
married couple, attempting to at­
tend school and, in many cases, to 
balance a meager budget. Many of 
the dwellings in the file are ex­
pensive, too far off campus, or not 
large enough.
While the married population 
of the campus is relatively small, 
it seems unfair to neglect their 
needs by not improving and en­
larging housing facilities for them.
IM Standings—
[Continued from page 6] 
night. The pairings were TX “A” 
vs DU “A”, Rockets vs BSR, APO 
vs DTD, and Obelisks vs Citom.
Those scheduled for tonight are 
Tech Gems vs Rocket-BSR win­
ner, and ATO “A” vs Obelisks- 
Citrom winner on court one at 7 
and 8 o’clock. On court two, KS 
“A” plays the APO-DTD winner 
at 7 and the Trojans play the TX- 
DU winner at 8.
The final standings:
"jkibo W. L.
DTD ....................................6 1
BSR .....................................5 2
¦'Tnglishmen .........................4 2
EEME ..................................4 2
BTP “B” .............................2 4
ASCE ..................................1 5
TX “B” ..............................0 6
Tartan
Trojans ................................6 0
Citcom ................................5 1
PK “A” ..............................4 2
Frosh Arch. ........................3 3
DU “B” ...............................1 5
SAE “A” .............................1 5
ATO ‘ T” .............................1 5
Plaid
Rockets ..............................6 0
APO ....................................4 2
PKA ....................................3 3
Vets .....................................3 3
SAE “B” .............................2 4
Grad Mesons.......................2 4
ATO “O” ............................1 5
Scot
Tech Gems .........................6 0
Obelisks ..............................5 1
SN “A” ..............................4 2
Clyde St. “AC” ..................3 3
BTP “A” .............................2 4
Newman Club ....................1 5
PK “F” ..............................0 6
Kiltie „
KS “A” ..............................6 0
DU “A” ...............................5 1
Grad Iggles .........................4 2
House of Harold ................2 4
TX “nothings” ....................2 *4
TKN ....................................2 4
BSR “B” ............................0 6
Tech
ATO “A” ............................6 0
TX “A” ...............................5 1
Aces ...................................4 2
Frothingslosh .....................2 4
Soph. Arch......................2 4
PK “B”................................1 5
SN “B” ..............................0 6
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
| ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES
Campus Cleaners
ATTENTION!!:—
STUDENTS
Make Your Airline Reservations Now ForEASTER VACATION
In New York March 29—Returning April 3
Round Trip $35.20 (including tax)
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
5880 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 17 Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300 
No Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery
r«pii-C«U Metropolitan Bottling Co., Pittsburgh It, Pa,
Syria Mosque
PITTSBURGH, PA.
2 Big Shows
WED., MARCH 21
8:00 P.M. and 10:30 P.M. 
ALL SEATS RESERVED 
$1.75 - $2.50 - $3.00 - $3.75
(Tax Incl.)
Tickets on sale now: R. E. Balts 
Agency in Volkweins Music Store, 
633 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh 22, 
Pa., Phone ATlantic 1-2196. Also 
at Hornes and Gimbeis. Mail orders 
also accepted. Send check or 
money order payable to R. E. Baltz, 
and mail with self-addressed 
stamped envelope to R. E. Baltz, 
care of Vlwein’s, 632 Liberty Ave., 
Pittsburgh 22, Pa.WOODY HERMAN
dl 'iodJbu Uitti
l«t a Growing Company
Located at Menasha, Wisconsin, Marathon is a leading producer of packages and 
packaging materials for foods- and non-foods, Northern household paper products and 
chemical products. It has 14 plants in 12 locations in the United States and Canada.
In Engineering and Manufacturing
Chemical, mechanical, industrial en­
gineering. Production, production control 
and quality control.
In Research
Wood technology, pulp, paper,
chemical converting.
In Sales and Marketing
Field selling, sales service, product 
development, market research, advertising 
and credit.
In Accounting
Plant, cost and financial accounting 
budget, procedures, auditing, tax.
In Industrial Relations
Administration, recruitment, industrial 
training, insurance-retirement, wage and 
salary administration.
In communities designed hr real living
Marathon headquarters at Menasha on the shores of Lake Winnebago in eastern 
Wisconsin. Along with its twin city of Neenah, it offers excellent schools, playgrounds, 
fishing, other water sports and desirable residential districts. What's more, big league 
baseball and football are just a $hort drive away. They're communities that do 
things without big-city hustle and bustle.
&Pic
Interviews at Placement Office
Thursday, March 22
Marathon
