COUNTRY FAIR
NEXT FRIDAY
MORNING
SWEEPSTAKES
SATURDAY AT
TEN O’CLOCK
VOL. XVIII NO. 32CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MAY 13, 1924
GIBSON ELECTED
SELECTION OF 
MISS GIBSON IS 
A POPULAR ONE
As One of the Most Popular 
Girls in Her Class, Jo is the 
Logical Winner of the 
Campus Queen Election
CEREMONY THURS. EVE
Great news usually is announced 
very simply, so perhaps it will be. 
"best just to say very calmly that 
Jo Gibson has been elected Queen 
of Campus Week. The third election, 
which took place on May S, decided 
the whole affair. Miss Gibson, (or 
should we just call her Jo?), re­
ceived an overwhelming majority of 
votes, more than the other two girls 
put together, in fact. The girl thus 
chosen to be our Queen is a Mar­
garet Morrison girl, in the House­
hold Economics Department. She 
has held numerous offices in her own 
class, and is president of the House­
hold Economics Club, and she is very 
popular with all the students of Mag­
gie Murpli. If the Queen of Campus 
Week is to be a representative girl, 
then the choice is very fortunate, for 
Jo surely is that, for she is not only 
beautiful, but popular as well! Thus 
are all Carnegie maidens.
The coronation is to take place on 
Thursday evening, at 7 o’clock, and 
is to be the most beautiful ever at­
tempted. Verner I-Ialden, as herald 
of the royal court, is to announce the 
event and, after the procession has 
wound its courtly length up the 
boardwalk from Machinery Hall, 
Paul McGrath, as the Archbishop, will 
crown the Queen. The ceremony is 
beautifully written in language that 
is in keeping with the period and the 
occasion. Allene Gregory, an in­
structor in the College of Fine Arts, 
has tried, in this ceremony, to ex­
press the hidden meaning, the under­
stood tradition of the whole idea of 
the coronation, and she has succeed­
ed admirably. • ,
After the coronation, the maidens- 
in-waiting will dance the minuet, 
which is to be followed by a solo 
dance by Don Mar;e, of the - Drama 
Department, and his partner. Im­
agine our Carnegie girls, in their 
French dresses and with their hair 
beautifully powdered, treading the 
stately steps of the minuet! It will 
be lovely, without doubt—a moving 
and inspiring spectacle, in its Old 
World setting, and with its New 
World beauty and grace.
At numerous points of advantage, 
there will be moving picture men 
stationed, who will see that no part 
of the whole gorgeous display es­
capes their faithful cameras. Proud, 
indeed, should be the girl who will 
thus be pictured as the Queen of 
Carnegie, the Queen of Beauty, the 
Queen of Love, the Queen of Revelry 
and Joy!
With all the rain we are having 
now, it is almost certain that the 
weather-during Campus Week will be 
(Continued on Page Four.)
TENNIS COURTS TO BE
OPEN DURING SUMMER
Sweepstakes Course 
Receiving Final Touch
Doc Marks and Cap Dosey 
Are Official Starters
The Tennis Club of Carnegie In- i 
stitute of Technology will maintain j 
the six Margaret Morrison courts 
druing the summer session, com­
mencing June 15 and continuing to 
September 15. The student fee will | 
be $2 for the three months, and the j 
alumni and faculty 'or administrative | 
staff fee ?5. Non-members of the 
club will not be permitted to play on 
the courts. If you want to play ten­
nis join now. Fees are payable to A. 
N. Heyl, cashier.
SPORRAN PROBE 
UNEARTHS BIG 
C. W. SCANDAL
SENIOR WEEK WILL 
CULMINATE YEAR
Diligent Investigators Discov 
er Unsurpassed Graft and 
Corruption in Working of 
General Committee
, CITMAS MEMBERS TO
NOMINATE OFFICERS
I At a meeting of the Citmns Club 
i held last week officers for the coming 
j year were nominated. Plans were 
j also made for a dinner meeting to bo 
! held in the Ruskin apartments on j 
! Wednesday, May 21, at 6 o’clock, j 
Election' of officers, installation, a 
I novel', program, eats* smokes, music j 
a ml entertainment will be the fea-i 
I tures of the evening.
Every Mason is cordially invited. 
Tickets can be secured at the Y. M- 
C. A. office.
BLUE BANDANA MAY APPEAR 
IN NEW YORK CITY THIS JUNE
MAGGIE MURPH SOPHS HOLD 
TEA TO HONOR MRS. SPENCER
FACTS NOT DIVULGED
Commencement Marks End 
of Four Years Intensive 
jGrind
WEAR OVERALLS 
FOR COUNTRY FAIR
Souvenir Booths Will be 
Features of New Event 
Friday Morning
On Friday morning all the excite­
ment and gaiety which you may de­
sire will be found in the Bowl, where 
the Country Fair will be held. The 
committee is attempting to make 
this fair as typical as it is possible 
to make it; and, from all’indications, 
they are going to succeed.
Ii. J. Heinz Company will have a 
booth, from which they will dis­
tribute samples of their 57 varieties. 
But, remember, it isn’t nice or 
proper to CrowtV or to visit one 
booth more than a dozen times in 
one morning. Besides, the Reick- 
McJunkin Company will run a rival 
booth, where milk and cream will be 
distributed to help wash down the 
Heinz pickles.
If the pickles and millc do not 
agree, there will be a hospital tent, 
conducted by the fair members of 
the Household Economics depart­
ment, where first aid will be given.
During the morning the traditional 
“greased pig" of all Country Fairs 
will be allowed to run loose, and he 
who manages to capture the slip­
pery animal will become the proud 
owner of said pig.
The Oakland Riding Academy and 
the Hunt Armory will supply horses 
for exhibition and riding purposes. 
Be sure to take a ride around the 
track and have your picture taken 
on the pony. Village cops will keep 
order, and they have brought with 
them some of their country cousins, 
who will entertain.
Most important of all, will be the 
Country Wedding. All joking aside, 
to the couple who will consent to 
marry on that day, a Grand Piano 
wilt be given. Any couple on the 
Campus, who have been planning to 
elope, can now come forth and re­
ceive the Grand Piano. This idea is 
similar to the Radio Weddings, 
which are broadcasted from different 
radio stations.
Admission to this Country Fair is 
one thing which is not traditionary, 
for' admission will be by Tag alone.
A glorious time of play and fun is 
now awaiting the Seniors; examina­
tions and classes will soon be over,, 
and, incidentally, .their happy college 
days. The first week of June is tho 
last week at .Carnegie Tech for the 
Seniors, and they are planning to 
end their college careers with a 
plunge into merriment of all kinds, 
banquets, balls, swims, picnics and 
luncheons.
The Commencement Ball on June 
10 will not be a formal ball, as it 
was once suggested. The dance will 
be held, informally, in our new gym­
nasium, with invitations extended to 
all the other classes of the four col­
leges. Thus an opportunity will pre­
sent for under classmen to attend, 
because the Seniors are not attempt­
ing to be exclusive. The committees 
have not, as yet, signed up an or­
chestra; their desire is to get the 
best and not be too hasty.
The men are looking forward to a 
wet” time m me new swimming 
pool and, after the swim, their ban­
quet. The women, too, are featur­
ing a swimming party in the new 
pool and their luncheon.
The Senior Class are now busy 
measuring and ordering their caps 
and gowns for graduation.
A change has been made in tho 
Senior (1924) invitations, for which 
members of the class are exceeding­
ly grateful to President Baker, Mr. 
Bright, Mr. Tarbell and the school 
trustees. Their aid in this matter 
was a distinct advantage to the 
class.
The general chairman, E. R. Pat­
ton, has exorcised great care in the 
selection of his committee, in order 
that every event scheduled may bo 
perfect in every detail. The work ol' 
the committee will not be complete 
until the gayety of Campus Week 
has passed.
Everything is now set for the 
world-famous Interfraternity Sweep­
stakes. Reporters are pouring in 
from all parts of the country,/' and 
the hotels are filled to overflowing 
with the pleasure-loving throngs, 
seeking excitement. Betting -is .wak­
ing. fast and furiously among the 
various factions. At the present pace 
this renowned event will soon ex­
ceed in importance the cavortings of 
the wonderful Sparkplug.
The official starters for the race are 
Doc Marks and Cap Dosey. We had 
to have Doc Marks, because he has 
the revolver. Cap Dosey is going to 
watch that no one cheats. Promptly 
at 10:15 a. m. the cars will line up 
in front of Margaret Morrison build­
ing. Get on. your marks; get set; 
go! With a mighty roar Doc’s can­
non will speak and off will go the 
heroes, pushing their pets to victory. 
Stay right where you^are, folks, for 
the end of the race will be at the 
same point where it starts. There 
will be several minutes of apprehen­
sion and misgivings. But, finally, 
from around the bend at Art’s 
School will flash a speedy machine, 
closely followed by many others. 
Down the home stretch they will 
come, amid the deafening cheers of 
the multitude. At the finish line will 
be a table with two beautiful silver 
cups. The lucky machine, who
finishes first, can then proudly step 
forward and claim the prize.
Before the race starts Professors 
Ashe, Leeds and Ambrose will 'care­
fully inspect each and every car. The 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Mardi Gras to Climax 
Revels On Friday Nite
C. W. Carnival, Colorful Cre­
ation, Causes Comment
; The 1924 Mardi Gras is going to 
! be Friday, May 16, and that’s some- 
| thing you don’t want to forget. It 
j is to be the gayest of carnivals, and 
undoubtedly the most colorful „,0c- 
I casion of Campus Week, 
j Both the new Gym and Langly Lab 
I will afford shelter for the masked 
revelers. Decorations are to be car­
ried out in futuristic style, in which 
the fantastic will suppress the 
sombre and give rise to an inward 
chuckle, not to mention an irrepres­
sible guffaw. Color will be the key­
note that creates the atmosphere. 
Color—lots of it, shades you’ve 
never seen before, blended, contrast­
ed, and splashed promiscuously with 
extravagant effect.
In the Gym, a special feature, in 
addition to the cubist desigii, will be 
the Myriad Mirror Moon. This gi­
gantic structure, composed of count­
less reflectors, will be suspended in 
the center of the Gym, and will re 
volve slowly, while vari-colored 
lights play upon the sparkling dia­
mond-like surfaces, and cast bright 
shifting hues upon the dancing 
throng of merry-makers below.
A spectacular complement in the 
Lab will be an enormous, cone, sup­
ported from the ceiling, a triumph 
of color in arabesque detail. Be­
sides this -will be an added attrac­
tion to afford means of quenching 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Award Scholarships to 
Pittsburgh]!! S'. Students
By recent action of the Committee 
on Scholarships, four Pittsburgh 
Honor Scholarships were awarded 
for the second semetser of 1923-24, 
to the four freshmen not already 
holding scholarships who, in their 
respective colleges, completed the 
first semester with the highest num­
ber of quality points. The awards 
carry a credit of $100.00 a year 
towards tuition, and are continued for 
four years,, if merited. The students 
receiving the scholarships are George 
F. Miller, and Louis S'acks of the 
Colleges of Engineering and Indus­
tries; Miss Wilbelmina Bunting ot 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege, and Charles Schlesinger of the 
College of Fine Arts.
It will be the practice of the com­
mittee to make similar awards eacn 
year to the four freshmen who com­
plete the,work of the first semester 
with distinction. One of the require­
ments for qualification is that the 
candidate must be a graduate of a 
Pittsburgh secondary school.
Startling revelations of graft and 
corruption-have been made by special 
investigators who undertook to estab­
lish vague rumors concerning the 
working of the General Campus Week 
Committee. Not only have these ru­
mors been corroborated but further 
finding have disclosed a depth and 
villianly hitherto unsurpassed in the 
annuals of the campus.
Due to the impending approach of 
Campus Week it has been deemed in­
advisable to mention any names, or 
even include the report of the special 
investigators, but with the wellfaro of 
Carnegie always in mind, the Sporran 
will make the full disclosures in its 
first issue of Campus Week.
The probe was instigated by the 
Sporran, a publication which has 
been working most energetically to 
make Campus Week a success, and 
hence it is only just, that that pub­
lication should be the first to pub­
lish the findings of the investigators.
The entire matter is the outgrowth 
of an ill timed quarrel about tho Blue 
Bandana tickets. A membor of tho 
publicity committee found that he had 
seats In row F balcony whereas two 
members of the building and gonoral 
decoration committee him socurod 
seats in row A, and being tho rival 
of ono of tho latter for the hand of 
a certain fair damsel, he was con­
fronted by overwhelming odds in se­
curing the desired date for that.par­
ticular night. Ho vowed' vengeance 
and took his story to the editor ol! tho 
Sporran, promising him material re­
wards if he secured the discomllturo 
of his rival.
With praiseworthy initiative, tho 
editor at onco enlisted tho aid of the 
twenty-two fairest residents oi! tlio 
Forbes and Woowiawn dorms, and 
with tills formidable aggregation at 
his disposal, quickly acquainted him­
self with tho innermost socrots ol! the 
workings of the Campus Week com­
mittees. With tho full dopo now lu 
his hands thorp Is little doubt that tho 
Sporran will have somo of tho most 
startling news whon it makes Its de­
but Thursday.
Though many of tho faithful young 
ladies have objocted to publicity In 
this connection, it is only just to tho 
(Continued on Pal'e Four.)
CURTAIN RISES AT 
10:30 THURS. MORN
Vaudeville Show Comprises 
Well Mixed Collection of 
Stellar Acts
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
The premiere of tho Polesio 
melange, trained athletes, domesti­
cated sliielcs, ecstatic actors, ardent 
vocalists and beautiful, bouncing 
belles, booked to play tho C. W.
Circuit for ninety minutes, will posi­
tively take place at 10:80, Thursday 
morning, in the local variety theater, 
Carnegie Music Hall. Admission will 
be by tag only, and seats will bo re­
served only so long as they aro oc­
cupied, with the singlo exception of 
bald-headed row, which will bo hold 
for mombers of tho faculty board of 
censors.
All tho artists havo boon In a stew 
of preparation and perspiration for
the past weolc, and If thoro is any 
merit in native ability, aided by 
clever setting , and carol'nl tutoring, 
tho show ought to produce enter­
tainment that will remind tlio audi­
ence of Jolson and Si. Denis.
Tho original conspiracy of tho 
Campus Week Committoo Involved a 
10 a. m. showing of .The Frappo 
Mousse Weokly, customary proludo 
to Act I, but faculty obstinacy block­
ed the iilau. The Instructors wore
of tho opinion that no student ovor
became completely conscious boforo 
10:30, so tho curtain raising was 
postponed to that hour,
Act 1 is a drama full of pathos 
and human tondorness, rollovod by 
flashes of wit, and vitalized by tlio 
stross of suppressed emotion, a fit- 
tljig vehicle for tho expression of tho 
heretofore well-hidden genius ol! tho 
actors who will fill Its roles. Tho 
great producer, Polesle, in hlmaoll! 
the author of the play, a revised and 
elovatod version of "Tho Two Or­
phans." Bud Fishor has proclaimed 
It a masterpiece.
Tho parts will bo pinyod by mom­
bers of the football squad. J'lm 
Anderson, whoso voice had boon well 
j cultivated by barking signals on tho 
gridiron, readily adapted Ills vocal 
chords to tho soft nuances of tho 
love passages, and Olio Newman and 
George Taylor wore Ideally cast as 
the bravo, but afflicted sisters. Cy 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
The Class of ’26 at Margaret Mor­
rison was hostess at a tea given in 
honor of their sponsor, Mrs. Mildred 
Spencer, and Miss Moore, an honor­
ary member of the class, last Thurs­
day, iu the Rec. Hall.
The tea served a double purpose; 
for. in addition to honoring Mrs. 
Spencer and Miss Moore, the girls 
were put in a position to look ovor 
the Class for Junior offices, nomina­
tions for which were held the fol­
lowing day.
Mrs. Spencer was presented witli 
a bouquet of roses, while Miss 
Moore, who was unable to attend 
the party, because of Illness iu her 
family, received a plant.
The recently-formed Science Soph­
omore Orchestra, The Carnegians, 
volunteered their services for danc­
ing.
Harriet Morrison who, with the 
aid of Mildred Seimnas from Arts, 
composed a class song, introduced 
tho song and led in the practice of 
it for the Woman's Banquet.
ALUMNI LUNCHEON FOR 
SENIORS IN GYM SAT.
In accordance with the custom of 
previous years the Seniors graduat­
ing thi3 year from regular courses 
and those graduating from two-year 
special courses, will be the guests of 
the alumni associations of their rer 
spectlve colleges at the Fifth An­
nual Alumni Federation Luncheon on 
Saturday, May 17, at noon in the new 
Carnegie Gymnasium.
The tickets, which are necessary 
for admission to this luncheon, may 
be had at the Alumni Office. All 
seniors who intend to go must get 
their tickets by Wednesday, May 14, 
for the final guarantee to the caterer 
must be made on that day. Please call 
for your ticket at once.
According to some of the girls, 
there is a new style around tlio 
Campus, the very latest thing from 
that college most provocative of 
school spirit, the International Cor­
respondence School. It seems that 
the very latest fashion, as set by 
the elevated lady’s maids and su­
perior cloak “models,” who are seek­
ing to perfect their bon-ton accent 
by mail, is to collect the pins of all 
the men they are sisters to. The 
word “pins” is used colloquially to 
mean fraternity emblems \ and 
badges, so we understand, and the 
fashion the girls are striving to 
create is that of having a fraternity 
pin to match each frock.
For instance, a green gown must 
be worn with an emerald-studded 
fraternity pin, or vice versa; a black 
dress must have its onyx'pin; a red 
dress its ruby, and a sequin’s dress 
its shimmering, heartless diamond. 
So say the ambitious maidens.
These young.women are also con­
sidering forming a society, a fra­
ternity pin honorary, with the mini­
mum number of pins for admittance 
placed at five. The girl with the 
most pins shall be president, the one 
with the next largest number vice 
president, etc.
They are also considering having 
part of the initiation ritual to be a 
rigorous cross-examination, in which 
each girl shall set forth, at least, 
one derisive quality about tho donor 
jof each pin. It Is also stated that 
| if the girls dare mention tho word 
"love” In their recital about the pins, 
they v/ill be automatically expelled 
from the society.
Of course, there Is tho possibility 
that this Is all a rumor, with no 
foundation at all, but rumor or not, 
there are college students at real 
brick and motar colleges who are 
beginning to ape this custom.
Far be it from me to say that 
there are any such grasping girls or 
such silly men at Carnegie! Prob­
ably ever fraternity pin that has left 
its owner’s bosom has a definite 
matrimonial purpose. Let’s hope so.
(Continued on Page Four.)
R.O.T.C. GUARD MOUNT IS 
MAIN EVENT OF SAT. A.M.
The leading event Saturday morn­
ing will be the R. O. T. C. guard 
mount, f-ri annual affair which will 
Hoon bfa as much a Campus Week tra­
dition us the Mardi Gras and the 
Queen. Assisted by the band, the R. 
O. T. C. always makes a very impos­
ing display.
The best men in the outfit have 
been selected and intensively trained 
in their respective duties during the 
past several weeks. The officers in 
command are thoroughly acquainted 
with their duties and have all had 
previous experience in the army.
The band will be on hand in their 
kilts and will rival, the best band that 
any regiment ever boasted of. The 
guard mount- will be strictly formal 
and is scheduled to be held on the 
cut. This is probably the only oppor­
tunity ever offered to see what the R. 
O. T. C. is really capable of and 
should, if the past work of that de­
partment is any criterion to base 
judgment upon, the guard mount will 
be a very imposing event.
WILL HOLD DANCE AT 
RHTENHOUSE THURS.
Following the performance of "The 
Blue Bandana,” on Thursday even 
Ing, there is to be a dance at the 
Rltionhouse. The show, which will 
be over about 10 o'clock, will give 
everyone ample time to enjoy them 
selves at the dance, which will last 
until. I o'clock, For those who do 
not care to dance, a bridge party has 
been scheduled.
This specialty danco and bridge Is 
held for the benefit of the Pennsyl­
vania College for Women Endow­
ment and Building Fund.
The College Imps will furnish the 
music for the evening. The assess­
ment is $1.25, and tickets may be 
secured from Mrs. E. K. Coyle at 
Hlland 7300.
Be sure to make your date for the 
show and the dance now!
FINALE HOP ENDS 
5th CAMPUS WEEK
Informal Dance in Gym and 
Lab Saturday Night 
Novel Features
Th Saturday Night. Danco will bo 
tho final affair on tho campus, and 
will closo tho fifth annual colobrutlon 
with accustomed vivacity. While tho 
Alumni sit enraptured at the socond 
performance ol! "Tho Bluo Bandana,” 
the undergrade will sport and gam­
bol on tho polished, sturdy oak.
Tho gym and lab will ring onco 
moro with tho prattle of joyous 
studos. ’Twill bo a somewhat minor 
affair than tho Mardi Gras of Fri­
day night; participants will, prob­
ably, abandon their fantiistlo con- 
tuinoB, scrub tho paint from tholr 
faces, and don garments moro lu ac­
cord with Emily Post's Idea of pro­
priety-—oxcopt, that It, will bo In­
formal.
Dancing will be In order from I) 
until 1.2, stimulated by the same ex-
1 IonL musicians who are to supply 
the harmony for the Mardi Gras. 
Pitt's Steel City Orchestra will hold 
sway ln tho lab, and the Incompar­
able Colloglato Imps will account for 
the accompaniment In tho gym.
Tlio Finale Hop Is to tako tho 
place of tho Coronation Danco of 
former years, and will havo the 
added attraction of colorful decora­
tions In tho lab and gym. A cone, 
composed of rich colors, arranged lu 
futuristic design, will form tho main 
attraction in the lab. From the ceil­
ing of the gym will be suspended tho 
Myriad Mirror Moon—an Innovation 
in decorative lighting, planned to 
give a sparkling effect ot shifting 
and blending of color.
The committee iu charge has plan­
ned to make this final event a 
memorable climax to the best Cam­
pus Week Carnegie has ever had.
Campus Week Show Tenta­
tively Accepted by New 
York Firm for Run on 
Great White Way
HAVE YOU TICKETS
Th last general sale on the Cam­
pus of tickets for the Blue Bandana 
will be held today on tho cut from 
11:30 to 1:30 o’clock. After that, 
any tickets obtained must be pur­
chased at the door of the theater, 
and you know just-what the chances 
for obtaining good seats will be.
The Blue Bandana has been, ten­
tatively, sold to a Now York firm, 
and will probably appear on Broad­
way during June. While this is not 
tho first Carnegie production to 
malco' the grade in tho big town, it 
will bo tho first Campus Week play 
which has dono so. There is no rea­
son to doubt that the show will bo 
successful there, for Herbert Os­
borne, tho author, has already writ­
ten several good plays.
Tho cast has been solectod as fol­
lows:
Richard Haskell. .Chester M. Wallace
"Gentleman Jim" Dolono ..............
...................Chostor M. Wallace
Pnnlngton .............. William Dickey
Dugan .......... Phillip Rhodes Thorn
Burlco ......................... Bon Wolnblatt
Girl ................................. Ellon Lowo
A waiter at tho Touralno ..............
............................. Herb Poloslo
Policemen. .Robert Aldordlco and 
.........................Russel Splhdlor
Tho plot, naturally, will not bo 
given out, but It Is known that It 
Is sure to bo Interesting, If not 
down-right thrilling. There will bo 
enough humor to suit tho spirit; of 
tho Wook, and tho dialogues are said 
to bo very olovor. The fact that tlio 
show has boon tontatlvoly accepted 
for a run In Now York COUNTRY ln 
itself, that It must have moro than 
ordinary merit, both In plot con­
struction and development ol! tho 
characters.
Tlio play opens with a scono lu 
tho library at llaskoll country house, 
and all Is dark oven tho plot, Tho 
socond act has two scones, ono In 
tho library, and one In a restaurant, 
tho Touralno, which promises to bo 
a groat scono. Tho third act Is 
again lu tho library, and this closes 
tho play.
Since Saturday night In reserved 
for tho Alumni, all students are 
asked to go to tho Thursday perfor­
mance, and leave tho seats available 
for the old grads at tho last ono. No 
tickets will bo sold to students for 
l.ho Saturday run, until very late In 
tho day, when It has boon assured 
that all the Alumni havo boon taken 
care of.
Scats, all ovor; the liouso, are ono 
dollar. It Is a caso of first come, 
first served. Although most of tho 
fraternity orders havo boon filled, 
there are still many choice seats 
left, due to tho fact that tho old 
block system of distribution has 
(Continued on Pago Four)
Announce Runners 
In Kiddy Kar Race
Dorm Girls to Enter Race; 
Six Teams Entered
Tartan Staff Plans 
Its Annual Banquet
Will be Held at University 
Club, May 14
Elimination of contestants for the 
honor of competing in the Kiddie 
Kar Race is now complete, and 
managers of the event last Friday 
turned over for publication the 
names of the girls who will pilot 
and push the cars in the supreme 
speed test of the century. All of the 
contenders have been selected for 
their ability to cover the ground at 
a death-defying velocity, and ob­
servers of the speed trials have been 
unable to form any accurate idea of 
the times for the distance, because 
the races have always been con­
ducted in a cloud of dust.
The great event will be run off on 
the Woodlawn speedway, between 
Central Building and Margaret Mor­
rison College, at 0 o'clock, Saturday 
morning. The competitors havo been 
on a diet of Grape Nuts and dis­
tilled water for the past weolc, and 
none of! thorn Is going to tho Mardi 
Gras, Friday night, In order that 
they may bo in good condition for 
the event.
The elimination, trials woro hard- 
fought, tho closeness of tho struggle 
causing many accidents, such as 
cracked axles, split rims, and com­
plete upsets. The lucky girls feel 
fully the honor and responsibility 
that they bear, and all of them are 
going into the contest determined to 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Campus Week will be officially 
opened witli the annual Tartan Ban­
quet, which will be held Wednesday, 
May 14, at 6 p. m., immediately pre­
ceding -the inter-fraternity migratory 
dances. The University Club has 
been selected as the only suitable 
and fitting scene for this celebrated 
occasion.
At this time, editors and staff will 
lay aside pen and pencil and gather, 
like one large family, to partake of 
the best menu the chef can design. 
This Is the ono occasion when 
wrangles with printers, bad copy- and 
reporters’ errors may bo forgotten, 
while the staff makes merry.
The annual banquet is the one 
"high light” in an otherwlHe drab 
and discouraging yoar of hard work. 
Tartan readers havo little idea what 
a tremendous task rests upon tho 
shoulders ol! the editors and their 
assistants. None but tho members 
ol! tho staff can appreciate the hours 
of hard work and concentration 
which aro combined that Tho Tartan 
may appear on time to carry tho 
nows ol! the Carnegie Campus to the 
uttermost parts of tho earth.
All those who aro In any way con­
nected with Tho Tartan aro eligible 
for tho banquet. This Includes all 
circulation assistants.
Tickets may be secured any day at 
the noon hour at The Tartan Office, 
5-A Industries Building. Spread tho 
dope, reporters! Let's have every 
member of the staff in place at 6 p. 
m., Wednesday, May 14, at the Uni­
versity Club.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 13. 1924
And That’s That
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered ln the Postoillee of Pittsburgh as second-class mutter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
H. F. SIMPSON ..................................................................................Schenley »143
BUSINESS MANAGER 
J. C. MAJOR.............................................................................................Illland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD.......................................Schenley 9189—Managing Editor
FRED C. SMITH............................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS.....................................................Assistant Managing Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
J3ARA MAE EVERETT.................................................. ........ .Schenley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES
H. H. WILSON ______________________________________________
NEWS EDITORS
,W. WINNING ...................................................................... Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI...................................................................................... Schenley 9070
A. E. KROGH. ,.................................. • •..........Schenley 9070—Alumni Editor
IO. C; FRAZIER......................................................Schenley 9148—Athletic Editor
R. W. SLEATIi .................................................................................... Photographer
iW. K. JEFFREY......................................................«.............Exchange Editor
H. P. COUSE, ........................................................................?••...................Art EditorWON GARDNER ................................................................................ Special Writer
T J. DEMPSEY..........................................................................Circulation Manager
W. M GIBSON....... ! !........................„Schenley ,9211—Advertising Manager
lì. BROUDY...................................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Estollo Garibaldi Aimue Pliaro J. M. Oos»
N P, Weser 1' • M. McClellandWilma Stiner £ ™°“er Mi W. Gay
Carol Folglit Y' ®: ” ‘ ‘ g- A. LlM. .. L. H. Harris FA IA LepperMai KUrot McFall B (, Tohn|)on j. N. Conloy
Rosemary McCainbrldga K jpui,nc.r M. Ilolllmjhoad
Nora Willetts_______________________A. F. Carson______________Harriet M or win
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
O. E. Jacoby J. Christoff J. F. Harris E. C. Plummer J. A. Poller
" BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, 11. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, A. 
Porre ton, Leo C. Osborn, E. L. Reeves, J. M. Airgood, N. Alexander, J. L. 
Batterle, J. P. Strlzak, Lois Snyder.
Tbe Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of studont Interest, if signöd. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All news items must be iu the studont 
post oillce before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Oillce—Room 5-A, Industries Building. Oillce hours—Dally 12:30- 
1:20. __________________________________________
LET JOY BE REFINED !
V V V V V V V V
CAMPUS WEEK RESOLUTION
At last the time has. come. Dayi 
after tomorrow the fifth annual Cam­
pus Week starts.
Fifth annual congregation of the 
best technical men and women in the 
world.
C. I. T. stands for Campus Week, 
inspiration, Technique, 
j You need Campus Week for the ( 
| school; Inspiration to get In; Tech-j 
nlque to stay In!
If an education does not teach one 
how to enjoy life, It isn't much ac­
count, Campus Week is a seventy- 
two unit course In Life Appreciation.
J ] Peregrinations
meeting of tlie vi i———————v At the last
•I* general Campus Week Commit- 
v tee, the following 
was passed:
* "‘Resolved that tho use of in- •’»! 
•!? toxicating liquor be absolutely •¿*1 
•I* prohibited during any of the’*] 
*.’• events of Camj)us Week
Of course you know about that de­
lightful little room in the Hut Li­
brary, labeled "800-899, Literature.” 
‘"¡Don’t you love to wonder around in 
‘I there on Friday afternoons? Then,
* rhis means that no liquor is * there’s nothing you have to read for
v to be brought on the campus; the next day, and you can just hunt
?.?none is to be used; no intox- *!*j ¡-01. something you’re sure you’ll en-
icated person is to be seen. *>joy.
The Sweepstakes Is scheduled for 
Saturday morning, Alumni Day. 
They're going to run the cameras at I 
I triple time In order to catch the do- ] 
tails of the lightning cars.
I They're prohibiting tho use of 
Still,/ engines ln these cars, because 
S if may slow up the race; and in addl- 
| tion, it will dilute tho pure air of the 
I course.
One of the fraternities are going to | 
build a car like a patrol wagon, for 
I lie boys will feel much more at homo 
in it.
Another is building a car like a 
wheel harrow, for the pushers will be 
much more familiar with this means 
of locomotion.
The girls’ Kiddy, Kar race prom­
ises to bo good—so do the girls. 
They ought to make good on the 
Kiddy Kars, for it isn’t so long since 
some of them actually rode the 
things.
Take that any way you please, de­
pending upon how old you tell your 
friends you are.
GRADUATES IN MUSIC 
TO PRESENT PROGRAM
This week is the week ol: all ¦weeks!
Lei; ;joy be unconfined—but refined!
There are, even in the ordinary run of events, enough to do to 
let enjoyment stick ¦within the coniines, o 1! respectability. So, surely, 
in the extraordinary run ol: events planned for CAMPUS WEEK, 
there is sufficient to permit enjoyment to be refined, for, after all, 
¦we oil Oarnogie are of sufficient high caliber to enjoy cultured and 
genteel pleasures. It is not necessary that we should descend into 
vulgarity for enjoyment.
And 'while uttering thoughts on CAMPUS WEEK, it is not amiss 
to mention a subjcct, different, but at the same time closely connect­
ed—our ALUMNI, The Gampus ’Week, is primarily for them in that 
il; is planned by the student body for their enjoyment, and is cjil'ered 
as an inducement for them to re-visit the campus. Not only is it 
an inducement for them to return, but it is an attempt to interest 
them to such an extent that their loyalty to Carnegio EXi11 be ever on 
the increase.
A college is only as strong as its alumni\s loyalty as evidenced' 
by active support. Campus Week is the best time oi! the year to 
instill within the alumni this loyally.
Alumni are dit'I'erent from students. In the first place they are 
older,.and therefore carry ¦with them a. moro settled outlook on life 
and its enjoyment. What may seem to us as trivial and innocent l!un, 
might appear to them as being important and condemning. Being 
unconnected in tho sense that we are connected with the college and 
its activities, their view-point on under-graduate 'actions will lie quite 
dilVoront. It is on account ol' this, that many au alumnus' loyalty is 
lost forever as a result of a student’s so-called innocent pleasures.
Therefore, it does behoove us as entertainers ol! our alumni to 
WATCH OUlt STEP, and let-joy-bo-reiluod.
DO YOU HAVE YOUR SONG BOOK?
hor !|.]ie,sole benefit ol! any alumnus who has not already bought 
a SONG BOOK, another sales campaign will be opened during Cam­
pus Weolc. Appreciating the I'aet that quite a larger number ol! 
.’alumni than the hundred and eighty who availed themselves ol! the 
previous opportunity want; copies, the commitl.ee is again otl'eriug 
I In1 alumni ilrst opportunity on the second edition just as it. did on 
’the ilrst.
in boosting this campaign, tho CARN'MCI’I 10 TARTAN feels that 
it is I'or the good oJ! Carnegie spirit, among the alumni, as well as for 
publicity, that a largo percentage* ol' former students should possess 
•copies ol' this, our own Carnegie Song Book.
The general plans for alumni sales during Campus Week are I’or 
slips to be handed to all who attend the Alumni Luncheon in the New 
Oymuasium Saturday noon. By those slips, anyone wishing to buy a 
hook, can so signify thereon, and by presenting to the committee at 
designated place of distribution (to be announced later) will receive 
a Song Book upon payment of the one dollar.
The mere fact that the first edition of one thousand copies was 
sold out in two days in itself indicates the value ol! the book.
ALUM NI! Take home a song book with you!
The commuters aro going to have 
the edge on tho dorm girls for they 
are more used to walking.
There is one thing to be thankful 
for. There won’t be any flat tires on 
the Kiddy Kars.
Which brings up tho question. 
Would you call a boy who always 
blows himself up, a ‘‘Flat Tire”?
Con-
It is up to the students to sup- *i Lafit week I was most interested 
port the committee in seeing ? ln the dramas I found on the 
that there is no stigma attached ? «helves; but today it is raining, and 
v to the name of Campus Week by ?!• rajny days are made for familiar 
v persons, who do not respect ? essays, don’t you think? Some of 
v their girls, themselves, or the these volumes I’ve found are famil-
name ol the school, enough to vj ¡uri an(j the pleasure of turning their 
remain sober. ’**j pages again is only rivalled by the
*.......................delight that comes from discovering
.............................. ‘ the new treasures standing between
them. I’m going to name over a 
few of those I like best among the 
newer ones, just for the pleasure of 
hearing their names, and in the hope 
that you’ll not have read all of them.
--------------- I First there’s Christopher Morley,
The annual concert of tho gradu-'the delightful fat man. The books 
ating class of the Department of j lie has called “Shandy Gaff” and
Music will be given Sunday evening, “Plum Pudding” are quite as entic- 
May 18, at 8:15 o'clock, in Carnegieling as their titles. If you like H. I. 
Music Hall. It will consist in a j Mencken’s cynicism, you’ll want to 
program of concertos for piano, vio- read his “Prejudices” and “Pref- 
lin arid organ, with tho Symphony j aces.” They’re just like him. Don
Orchestra furnishing the accompani- Marquis calls one of his collections
ments, “Prefaces,” too, and they’re per-
The program is as follows: | fectly charming. Christopher Mor-
Bach—Concerto No. 2, for violin, ley says lie writes well because lie’s 
allegro ...................Armand Venditt'a- fat man, too! Logan Pearsall
Arensky—iConcerto for Plano No.
2, allegro maestoso.....................
..............................Jeanette Spatholt
Mendelssohn—Concerto for violin,
E Minor, allegro molto appass-
sionato ........................Marie Kleyle
Bossi—Concerto for organ—A Mi­
nor, allegro moderato. .John Groth
Adagio mo non troppo.................
................................Martha Hutson
Allegro...............Alfred II. Johnson
At last the Queen is elected 
grnfiliations, Jo.
She will bo crowned in the royal 
sense of the word.
Don’t be late for this event. It’s 
tile chance of a lifetime for some of 
you engineers to practice for the time 
when you will be knighted by some 
royal boneheiid of Europe.
The camera men aren’t eoing to 
bring lights to the event, so specta­
tors are respectfully requested to 
wash their faces in order to reflect 
all the light possible.
Anyone with a full-moon face will 
bo especially welcome.
If you’re engaged, don’t bring your, 
girl; for you won’t bo able to afford 
a dress like that which tho queen | 
wears for many, many years.
Tho alumni men and women will be 
permitted to swim in the now pool. 
These aro going to bo two wot par­
ties.
We now llnvn ono of tho best pools 
In tho country. There's no getting 
around it.
It seems that it would have been 
hotter to havo tho swims right after 
tho Mardi Clran. Its cooling effects 
would be much appreciated by ovory-1 
ono thoro,
| This opening is u spoolal event for
ALUMNI CLEAR ABOUT 
$450 AT BRIDGE PARTY
Smith has bad some awfully nice 
thoughts, I’m sure. If you read his 
“Trivia” you’ll know just what I 
mean by that. If you don’t mind 
laughing at yourself, you’ll, like “The 
Provincial American,” by Meridlth 
Nicholson, but if you’re longing for 
new scenes and new adventures, 
you’ll prefer the fanciful Japanese 
studies of Lafcadio Hearne.
When you’ve read all these, you’ll 
probably want to turn to the English 
essays opposite. They’re quite as 
charming as the ones I’ve mentioned, 
too; but the sun is shining now, so 
I’ll save them for another day!
the Alumni and they should appro­
dato tlio fact,
Conio around Alumni, got In Ilio 
swim.
SWEEPSTAKES COURSE
RECEIVING FINAL TOUCH
(Continued From Page One.) 
car which, in their estimation, has 
incorporated in it the best qualities 
of design will be awarded the design 
prlie before the race starts.
Due to the fact that the construc­
tion of the new tunnel has eliminated 
the starting point in front of Central 
Building, the race will start at Mar­
garet Morrison 'and finish there. The 
pushers will change at the top of 
Tech street; approximately, at the, 
entrance to Machinery Hall; at. the j 
top of Industries Hill. Double lines 
will be piarked live yards apart at 
the points of change. The pushers 
must change between these lines. 
Officials will bo at these points to 
chock up on each car. For patrolling 
tho courso thoro will bn a detach­
ment from tho R. O. T. C. and, also, 
several cheorloadors. Everyone is
urged to keep off tiie courso, be­
cause any entry is liable to be dis­
qualified, if its supporters interfere 
with the race.’
The high spots to bo remembered 
are these:
1. The car must weigh sixty 
pounds.
2. Pushers must change at speci­
fied points.
3. Driver arid pusher cannot ex­
change places.
4. No one who has earned his let­
ter in track or cross-country is 
oligible as a pusher.
The Seven Seas.
Did Kipling consult Hindu mythol­
ogy when choosing the title for bis 
well-known book, “The Seven Seas"? 
According to the Puranas, the earth Is 
circular and tlat, like the flower of a 
| water lily. Its circumference Is 1,000,- 
j 000,000 miles. In the center Is Mount 
I Soomeroo.
Tho whole scheme of tlio Mardi 
Gran will be futuristic.
Liquor hi a thing of (lie past.
Anyone noon carrying harps or 
wearing halos will 1)0 judged eon* 
Col tod.
Thoy’ro going to charge rental to 
any c.ouplo found sitting In I ho little 
glade behind tho Arte Shcool.
Considering that tho path between 
tlio Lab and tho Gym runs through 
here, we ought to havo a lowering of 
noxt; semester's tuition if the rental I 
| plans go through.
Campus Weolc without tho Mardi 
Gras would bo like being in love with­
out a girl. Wo can imagine it, but 
not much.
The Campus Week scandal sheet i 
this year will be called the Sporran. | 
This is a Scotch wird, pronounced j 
I like it looks, which means the little 
pockotbook which a Kiltie Bandman | 
j hangs around his kneck. flopping 
I down in the front. It has horsehair 
j growing on the bottom, and looks like 
I some kind of a feather duster. That’s 
whore lie carries his money, such as 
it is. If he is a woman, we suppose 
he carries his money there too.
Also her dorine, lipstick, matches, 
cigarettes, rouge, handkerchief, hair­
pins, notebook, spare hair nets, and 
one or two other things like that. ’
Ever notice that most Scotchmen 
are stoop shouldered?
That’s from carrying all the money 
they save around in their Sporrans.
Just what this liaa to do with a 
newspaper, we don’t know.
It’s Scotch, we suppose that’s the 
answer.
Campus Week in a Box
THURSDAY, MAY 16 
10:00 n.m.—Vaudeville Show. 
1:30 p.m.—Qualification a n d 
Call.
2:00 p.m.—Kaper of the Kilties. 
2:30 p.m.—Tree Planting by 
Mortor Board.
6:30 p.m.—Coronation of Cam­
pus Week Queen. 
8:15 p.m.—Show.
FRIDAY, MAY 16 
10:00a.m.—Tennis Match, Girls. 
County Fair.
1:00 p.m.—Tennis 
Tech.
T rack 
Tech.
7:00-9:00—Swim, Alumnae
Girls, New Gym.
9.00 p.m.—Mardi Gras.
Match, Pitt- 
Meet, Pitt-
SATURDAY, MAY 17 
9:00 a.m.—Girls’ Sweepstakes. 
10:00 a.m.—I n t e r f r a t ernlty 
Sweepstakes.
Guard Mount.
12:00 m. —Alumni Luncheon. 
1:00 p.m.—Girls' Volley Ball 
Game.
Girls’ Baseball 
Game.
2:00 p.m.—Alumni Tennis
Match.
4:00-6:00—Swim, Alumni Men, 
New Gym.
6:00 p.m.—Girls’ Banquet.
8:15 p.m.—Show.
8:45 p.m.—Dance.
| Tho Plebes will got out of regula­
tions on Thursday morning ns usual.
I There’s always a kick to bolng a 
full fledged student Instead of a more 
Freshman.
For another four months Old Man 
| i’. 11. will hibernate to rise again 
I next September and again harass tho 
] souls of tho Innocent Freshman.
Like Death and the Measles, lie's 
a necessary Inconvenience, Lots of 
boys would never have ,worked If 
they hadn't been made to, when they 
I were Plebes. Many havo nevor 
I worked since then.
The most successful bridge party 
in the history of the Margaret Mor­
rison‘Alumnae Association was held 
at McCreery’s on Saturday afternoon 
April 2G. Approximately seventy- 
live tables were in play. About $450 
was cleared at .the benefit and the 
proceeds will be used to provide 
two scholarships which are given 
annually by tliej association.
The patronesses were: Mrs. Mait­
land Alexander, Mrs. William W. 
Blackburn, Mrs. Herbert DuPuy, 
Mrs. George McCandless Mrs. Wil­
liam McConway, Mrs. John L. Por­
ter, Mrs. James H. Reed, Mrs. Wil­
liam Watson Smith.
The tableholders were as follows:
Athletic Association of C. I. T, 
Mrs. Ray E. Adams, Miss Thelma 
10. Adams, Miss Rachel E. Beatty, 
Miss Mary Bechtel, Miss Agnes E. 
Bird, Miss Ann Blatt, Mrs. W. A. 
Bradshaw, Mrs. C. C. Brin ton, Miss 
Althea Burch, Mrs. G. W. Connors, 
Mrs. Frederick Crabtree, Miss Gene­
vieve Cusliwa, Miss Justine M. 
Dobbs, Mrs. William IT. Dosoy, Miss 
Edytlie Dougherty, Mrs. Inez Dnn- 
nols, Mrs. W. Howard Ebberts, Miss 
| L Maud Fire, Mrs. C. R. Fettko, 
j Miss Genevieve Fisher, Mrs. Fred 
l. Gaston, Mins Cora Gerwig Miss 
Edith Scott Glenn, Mrs. Carl E. 
(Mock, Mrs. II. G. Graham, Mrs, ,1. 
B. Graham, Miss Dorothy P. Grant, 
Miss It. Grave Griffin, Miss Margaret. 
Griffin, Mrs. W. 11. Ilarroid, Mrs. 
Fred .1. Hartman, Mrs. Gertrude IT. 
Hayes, Miss Martha H. Hays, Mrs. 
Earl ITe.spenheide, Miss Louise Irvin, 
Miss Ruth Jones, Mrs, Tliarreus C. 
Knight, Miss Marion Kobne, Miss 
Bernice J. Kriignr, Mrs. Mabel S, 
Landis, Mrs. Frank .1. Lnnalian, Miss 
Ellon Lewis, Miss Martha C. Lloyd. 
Miss Helen E. Marshall, Miss Anna.] 
L. McCandless, Miss Lois McCombs,] 
Mrs. James McCormick, Jr., Miss 
Elizabeth R. McIntosh, Miss Phyllis 
MeMaiTin. Miss Hattie G. Merril, 
Miss Tillle J. Moore, Mrs. John T.j 
Morris, Mrs. William E. Mott, Miss 
Cecelia Murdock, Mrs. A. G. Nesbit, 
Mrs. John M. Orr, Mrs. Mary M. 
Patterson, Mrs. Emerson Pugh, Miss 
.Frances V. Rayburn, Miss Hilda 
Reinhold, Miss Cora Rogers, Secre­
tarial Club of M. M. C. C„ Miss Ed­
na C. Smith, Miss Sue F. -Smith, 
Mrs. William Watson Smith, Miss 
Ethel Spencer, Mrs. Thomas Spoon­
er, Mrs. Theodore Towl, Mrs. E. M. 
Vermorcken. Miss Blanche Woppat, 
Miss Ruth E. Welly, Miss Josephine 
Whitney, Mrs. Mary McC. Wright, 
Miss Mary M. Young
Individual Ticket Holders—Miss 
Edna Atwood, Miss Gertrude McA.. 
j Baton, Miss Florence I. Bechtel,!
I Miss Dorothy Cluley, Mrs. Ednah N.
I Cranna Mrs. A. J. Dreux, Miss Bess 
i Dunn, Miss Jean E. Falknor, Miss 
j Florence A. Flinn, Mrs. Chester Gal- 
! leher. Miss Harriet F. Glendon, Miss 
| Olga Gopdics, Miss Sarah GorzoJ 
j Miss Plelen Greenhood, Miss Bess!
Hair, Mrs. G. F. Gurley, Mrs. C. D.| 
I Harnack, Miss Anna Hibbs, Miss1 
; Margaret Hollar, Miss Edith James,!
I Miss Mary E. Jones, Mrs. ;IT. K, Me-! 
Goodwin, Mrs. James Milholland.
| Miss Helen Murphy, Mrs. William 
j 1’louts, Mrs. E. M. Pugh, Miss Len- 
oro Road, Mrs. 11. Klomar Schmidt, 
¡Miss Mary Shoerin, Miss Amy L. 
Sproull, .Miss Amy Stemon, Miss 
K. Salome, Stamm, Miss Bertha 
| Steiner, Mrs. Harold A. Thomas, |
10:10
The Fifth Campus Week will be 
officially opened on Thursday at 
10:10 a. m., with the vaudeville 
show at the Carnegie Music Hall. 
The doors will open at 9:30, so 
that everyone will be able to get in 
before the show starts.
Campus Week tags will be neces­
sary in order to get in. Buy yours 
early. The lower floor is reserved 
for Faculty, Alumni, Student Coun­
cil and Seniors. Seniors can iden­
tify themselves by wearing their 
Senior hat or canes.
I-Iorb Poiesie announces plans en­
tirely conpieted. Dave Garber is 
ready to raise the curtain and will 
you be there when the curtain goes 
up.
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
CLIFFORD .BROWN .CONNOLLEY j prenticeship in this• work, he went
i to Pitt, then the Western University
Dean Connolley, as he is called by 
most of the students about school, 
has the distinction of being the 
oldest Carnegie man on the campus, 
from the point of service. He was 
a member of the original Plan and 
Scope Committee of Carnegie Tech, 
of which Mr. Hammersclilag and Mr. 
Willston, now of the Wentworth In­
stitute, were the other members.
In the early days of the school, 
Mr. Connolley assisted in arranging 
the courses and in securing the in-
of Pennsylvania. On being graduated 
he began teaching industrial work. 
He started the first industrial educa­
tional schools, which were placed in 
the schools of Allegheny, Pa. When 
Allegheny was made a part of Pitts­
burgh, Mr. Connolley became head of 
the industrial work of the' schools of 
Pittsburgh. It was while doing this 
work that he was appointed on the 
committee to plan and arrange the 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Dean Connolley’s work in indus-
structors for the various depart-1 trial' education has been his great
ments of the proposed institution. He 
acted in the capacity of assistant to 
Dr. Hammersclilag. When the in­
stitution was divided into the four 
schools, Mr. Connolley was made 
Dean of the School of Applied In­
dustries, as the school was called at 
that time. This position he1 held 
until 1919, when he was granted a 
leave of absence to become the Com­
missioner Of the Department of 
Labor and Industry of the Common- 
welth of Pennsylvania, which posi­
tion lie held for four years, after 
which he returned here. While do­
ing this work for the State, Dean 
Connolley was President of Govern­
ment Labor Officials- of the' United 
States and Canada. His position at 
Carnegie since his return bears the 
title of Director of Industrial Rela­
tions.
Mr. Connolley is a pioneer in in­
dustrial education, and lias as his 
life work, industrial and human re­
lationship. His life has been devoted 
to this work, and during the first 
years of Carnegie, Mr. Connolley 
worked day and night many times.
He started his career as a pattern­
maker, and learned this trade 
thoroughly? After serving his ap-
MARDI GRAS TO CLIMAX
REVELS ON FRIDAY NITE
(Continued From Page One.) 
the thirst. Under a noisily-patterned 
awning you’ll find the most popular 
soft cold drinks, in unlimited quan­
tity, not to mention other desirable 
refreshment.
Musical vibration, that “sine qua 
non” at a dance, will be supplied by 
two orchestras, whose respective 
popularity is based upon skillful 
rendering of favorite measures and 
dashing execution of unexpected in­
strumental feats. The Collegiate 
Imps will burst forth, a dozen 
Strong, in the Gym, to add to the 
general gayety. The Steel City Or­
chestra from Pitt will be stationed 
at the base of tlie colored cone in 
the Lab.
Campus gossip suggests that cos­
tumes this year will vary more than 
ever in originality and frivolity. 
What are you going to wear?
Whether sage or jester, queen or 
peasant, wear your Campus Week 
Tag. That’s what it’s for, nothin’ 
different!
And, say! You know tlie Mardi
hobby during his entire life. He is 
greatly interested in boys and their 
work and the relation of the labor­
ing man to his employer. Besides 
his school work he lias also done 
work with tlie Boy Scouts. The Dean 
has the great faculty of being able 
to understand men in their relation­
ship, one with' another, and can 
handle men in -a remarkable way. 
He has always been ready and 
anxious to help anyone, and has 
many times gone out of his way to 
do so. As Dean of Industries he was 
very well ilked by all the students, 
and' served practically as a father to 
them all. Alumni of the school in­
variably inquire about Mr. Connolley 
wlien_ talking of their days at Car­
negie;
Dean Connolley is greatly interest­
ed in sports, and always does all he 
can to further them. While attend­
ing the Western University of Penn­
sylvania he was very much inter­
ested in boxing, and became quite 
proficient in an amateur way. He 
was also a runner and a baseball 
nWn:
kr. Connolley is one of the few 
men on the staff of the school who 
is listed in Who’s Who.
Gras lasts from 9 o’clock ON! And 
that means at least five hours of the 
best time you ever hope to have be­
fore you grow up.
ANNOUNCE RUNNERS
IN KIDDY KAR RACE
(Continued From Page One.) 
win the cup. Their names, with af- 
filations, follow:
Commuters—Margaret McFall and 
Ted' Jones.
Forbes Hall—Frances Talbot and 
Gypsy Speers. .
Forbes Annex—Virginia Pope and 
Barbara White.
Mellon Hall—Peg Taylor and Ger­
aldine Corbett.
Mellon Annex—Mary Quick and 
Peg Eckliart.
Woodlawn—Anne Rex and Grace 
Glennon.
The array is quite formidable and, 
at this stage of tlie game, it would 
be rash to predict the winners.
Heeding Public Opinion.
Deference to public opinion is shown 
by the man- who cares nothing for 
sports hut claims he likes one.
^Whatever your "Choice of a Career,” college training has increased 
your economic 'value, and ^whatever business or profession you enter, 
adequate life insurance is a proper self-appraisal of your powers in that 
direction.
The traditions, practices, and financial strength of the JOHN HANCOCK 
SMutual Life Insurance Company are such that a college man can take 
especial pride in having a John Hancock policy on his life. It is also 
a distinct asset from the start. It will pay you to buy it; and later on, 
should you think of joining the field corps of this company, it will also 
pay you to sell John Hancock policies. Our representatives will tell you. 
just how, and assist you in selecting both your career and your insurance.
oAddress (¡Agency Department
Sixty-onc Years in Busincst
Now insuring One Billion Seren 
Hundred Million Dollars in 
policies on 3,250^000' livesDUMG OSCWFESPG KN’LESV.
of 3NC2NSA HECCEPRWCG22C
1VA’
$N
0.
P
lì
P
û
&
I
This vaudeville show is going to be 
pretty snippy. Wo see by the Tartan 
that the Davis is going to give up 
their show on that day, due to too 
much competition.
Did you ever wear a Blue Banana 
around your knock? Excuse us. We 
mean Bandana.
Whether you have or not, better 
not miss the show. It gave us more 
thrills than getting Ice Cream down 
our back.
! Mrs, Willibald Trinks, Miss Edith 
Winchester, Miss Mary O. Wight, 
Mrs. Anna A. Young.
Man’s Horsepower.
Compared with other motors, a la­
boring man has been rated by French 
Investigators as having about one- 
seventh horsepower and an efficiency 
of 30 per cent.
You’ll have a chance to hold your 
girl’s hand and everything.
Forget about your studies, and en­
joy the week. You're only young 
once. Make the most of It.
And that’s that.
uWhat a whale of a difference 
just a few cents make]
—a// the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette 
and—FATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 13. 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
J#PLAID ATHLETICS
HARRISBURG TECH 
WINS TRACK MEET
South High of Akron is Sec­
ond in Interscholas- 
tic
Tlie Eighth Annual Inter-scholastic 
Track and Field Meet held under the 
auspices of Carnegie Tech in the 
Tartan Bowl Saturday, turned out 
.to be the most successful in the 
history of the school. Harrisburg 
Technical High School romped away 
with the cup going to the school 
.having the greatest number of 
points, while Scott High of Toledo, 
Peabody and Lock Haven captured 
cups for winning the relays in the 
various classes. Day of New Castle, 
and Burris of Harrisburg Tech, tied 
for the highest point winner of the 
meet, the latter taking first place 
in the 440 yard run and in the half 
mile. McGlaughlin of Johnstown, 
was second with nine points to his 
credit.
Despite {lie fact that several of 
the High Schools from the nearby 
towns did not put in an appearance 
due to the tie-up caused by the 
street car strike, the representation 
was more varied than in previous 
meets held by the Tartans. Ohio 
sent the best they had in Waite and 
Scott of Toledo, Rayen High of 
Youngstown, Alliance High, Steuben­
ville High and iSouth High of Akron. 
Wellsville High was the only high 
from West Virginia that figured in 
the point scoring, while numerous 
high sêhools from Pennsylvania cap­
tured some . of the points.
The preliminaries began at 10:30 
in the morning and by. noon the 
boys qualifying for the semi-finals 
in the 100 yard and 220 yard dashes 
and those for the finals in the other 
events were known. The finals began 
promptly at 2:00 o’clock. The col­
lege events in the dual between the 
Skibos and Geneva were sandwiched 
in between the high school events, 
and'everything went off according to 
schedule.
Harrisburg Tech and Scott High 
both placed a large number of men 
in the dashes, and1 they were well 
represented .in the finals in the aft­
ernoon. Scott boys fell down in 
the semi-finals in the 100,' only M. 
Cook qualifying. Cook romped away 
with the century dash in the fast 
time of 10 3-5 seconds. Weaver of 
Altoona, took the 220 yard dash, 
nosing out Dailey of Latrobe, in a 
close finish. The time in this event 
also was good, 24 1-5 seconds. The 
condition of the track was not the 
best, and it was practically impossi­
ble to .break any records in the run­
ning events.
Murdock of Schenley, led Day 
of New Castle all the way in the 
120 low liurles, but the latter spurted
THE INTER-SCHOLASTIC TRACK MEET
A general feeling of satistaction is prevalent among those who witnessed j 
the Eighth Annual Inter-Scholastic Track and Field Meet, held under the ; 
auspices of Carnegie Tech last Saturday. The meet was so well run off as j 
to invite no criticism on any point. And the competition was quite keen i 
more so than in previous years, for it had become a foregone conclusion that : 
one of the strong preparatory schools such as Bellefonte or Kiski would carry | 
off the top honors.
The Athletic Association was wise in deciding to limit the entries this | 
year to high schools only. The high schools in turn recognized the fairness 
of the new order of things and responded in good style.
Unfortunately the street car strike prevented a number of entries from 
making their appearance, but the meet was not seriously hampered thereby.
Congratulations are due Harrisburg Tech for winning the big cup offered 
to the team scoring the highest number of points; and to Scott High, Peabody 
High and Lock Haven High, winners of the Class A, B and C relays, respec­
tively.
H. P. Rassbach and his assistants deserve especial mention for their 
part in making the meet so successful. To them fell the bulk of not only 
the organization work, but also the laborious task of mailing the entry blanks 
and other correspondence of routine but necessary character. The excel­
lence of their preliminary work was attested by the smoothness with which 
the meet as a whole was run off.
The only unpleasant incident of the afternoon was a discussion among 
some of the coaches as to the advisability of running the relays in classes, 
inasmuch as it appeared that the times turned in for some of the schools 
were too slow, in the opinion of some of those concerned. The particular 
matter was smoothed over, but the question is still open, and it should be 
seriously considered by the manager of the meet for next year.
Certainly! Every student, needs a 
reliable Safety Fountain Pen and 
Pencil. We sell and repair. Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade,
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLE'S BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
SKIBOS BEAT W. VA. 
BUCKNELL AT TENNIS
Plaid Opens Home Season 
With Two Victories; Team 
Looks Good
PLEBI: BASEBALL TEAM 
LOSES 10 IND. NORMAL
A GOLF TOURNAMENT
The Athletic Association is offering a cup to the winner of a golf tour­
nament to be started soon among the students of Carnegie Tech. Beg pardon, 
two cups are offered—one to the winner, the other to the runner-up.
This means is being taken to arouse interest in the sport with the idea 
of forming a nucleus about which to build a real varsity team next year. 
For reasons already known, the varsity schedule for this year will probably 
not be played. But this intra-mural tournament should give the sport an 
impetus which will insure its success in the coming years.
Graduate Manager Overend requests all persons who are interested to 
see him or the committee in charge of the tournament, which will include 
Jimmy Croolrston, chairman; Jack Bright and Pete Seaman. It is thought at 
present that all students will be eligible to compete, and the first sixteen are 
to qualify for the finals. Further details will he given later. In the mean­
time, sign up for the tournament with those mentioned above.
ALMOST A PERFECT RECORD
We take pride in reporting almost a perfect record in games won during 
the past week. The only event to spoil the-otherwise clean slate was the 
unfortunate defeat of the Plebe baseball team by the Indiana Normal School 
nine. Even then, some consolation is derived from the fact that the Plebe 
track team overwhelmed the cinder path representatives of the Normal ites
The varsity track team outscored Geneva College, the varsity tennis team 
has two more victories to its credit, and the Freshman tennis team turned 
in a victory over Wilkinsburg High school.
The track teams, both varsity and Freshman, remain undefeated- and 
the varsity tennis men have only one defeat against them, with excellent 
prospects of averaging that one when they meet their former conuuerors W. & J., on the home courts tomorrow. Not so bad!
Beliefield 
Presbyterian Church
Beliefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
j Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.—Sermons.
10 A.M.—Men’s Bible Class.
4 P.M.—Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.—Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.—Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas­
tor, teaches Men's Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re­
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
PERMA NTEAWREWT VINRVI
Corner Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 o’clock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 6:30 So­
cial Unit Tea, followed by an 
interesting program, should be 
of interest to students.
ahead of Murdock in the last few 
yards, winning by inches. In the 
high hurdles Harrisburg Tech again 
showed to good advantage, winning 
first and' third places.
Only one record was broken in the 
meet, that being the mark of 156 
feet in the javelin throw, held since 
last year by McGlaughlin of Johns­
town. Saturday afternoon Joseph 
Scott threw the javelin 157 feet 5 
inches. The best McGlaughlin could 
do was 154 feet.
Akron South showed up' well in 
the discus, taking first and third 
places. Templeton hurled the missile 
a distance of 110 feet 4 inches, 
which is pretty good for high 
schools.
Lock Haven High took second and 
third in the hammer throw, a total 
of six points. The most points made 
in any one event was five by any one 
school, with the exception of the 
high' hurdles, the discus throw and 
the hammer.
The relay races- were very inter­
esting and exciting, the large crowd 
cheering wildly at times as their 
favorites forged to the front. Ow­
ing to the fact that the track in the 
Tartan Bowl is only one-fifth of a 
mile long, the relays were only four- 
fifths of a mile instead of a mile. 
The time, consequently, made by the 
various classes was for four-fifths of 
a mile.
Scott High lined up against La­
trobe, Harrisburg Tech, New Castle 
and Waite High Schools in the 
Class A relay race. The Class B 
teams were composed of Schenley, 
Alliance, Butler, Peabody, Akron 
South and Johnstown Hight Schools, 
while Class ¡C consisted of Bellevue, 
McKeesport, New Brighton, Rayen 
of Youngstown, Union, Ford City, 
Monessen ahd Lock Haven High 
School's. The teams were classified 
according to the best times they had 
made in previous meets. The win­
ner of each class received a silver 
cup. The winners were: Class A,
Scott High, time 2 minutes 47 2-5 
seconds; Class B, Peabody High, 
time, 2 minutes 55 2-5 seconds; Class
C. Lock Haven, time, 2 minutes 
53 1-5 seconds.
The schools with more than six 
points were as follows:
Harrisburg Tech .........................30%
Akron South ................................20
Alliance .............................................19
New Castle ................................... 13
Schenley High .................................10
Johnstown .........................................10
Scott High .......................................10
Altoona High ................................. 9
Wilkinsburg High ....................... 9
Lock Haven High.......................... 8
Rayen High, Youngstown.’........... 8
Latrobe High .................................7%
New Brighton High....................... 7
Taken all in all1, it was a most 
successful meet, and the officials are 
to be congratulated for the excellent 
manner in which they handled it. 
Everything went off in apple-pie or­
der, not a hitch coming up any­
where.
After the meet, the scholastic con­
testants were treated to a real meal 
in the Commons, where the presen­
tation of the cups was made.
The school boys coming from a 
great distance were entertained by 
the various fraternities on the 
campus, and nothing was left un­
done to show the visiting boys just 
what real Carnegie Tech spirit and 
hospitality is.
FieJ'd Events.
Javelin throw—Won by Joseph, 
Scott; McGlaughlin, Johnstown, sec­
ond; Dean, New Castle third; Wolfe,
I Ford City, fourth; Geoffrion, Waite,
I fifth. Distance, 157 feet 5 inches, 
j Hammer throw—Won by Mc­
Glaughlin, Johnstown Brownlee, 
Loc Haven, second; Dunn, Waite, 
Toledo, third; Hoffman, Lock Haven, 
fourth; ICnosman, Monesseu, fifth 
Distance, 107 feet 3 inches.
Discus throw—Won by Temploton, 
South Akron; Sebastian, Rayen, 
Youngstown, second; Ifencli, South 
Youngstown, third; Graham, Swiss- 
vale, fourth; Brownlee, Lock Haven, 
fifth. Distance, 110 feet 4 inches.
Shot put—Won by Dunn, Waite; 
Banks, Altoona, second; Manusiiak, 
Rayen, Youngstown, third; Wolfe, 
Ford City, fourth; O’Conner, Johns­
town, fifth. Distance, 43 feet 3 inch­
es.
Broad jump — Won by Munro, 
Wilkinsburg; Murdoqh, Schenley, 
second; Nicholl', South High, Akron 
third; Coy, 'South High, Akron,, 
fourth; Harding, Alliance, fifth. Dis­
tance, 1!) feet 5J inches,
Pole vault—Won by Day, New Cas­
tle; Munro, Wilkinsburg, second; 
Whitney. Waite, Toledo, third; 
Chinn, Fifth Avenue; Orr, Wollsville; 
Moor, Munhall and Frable, Latrobe, 
tied for fourth and fifth places. 
Height, 11 feet 3 inches.
High jump—Won by Lanther, 
Jeannette, and Glessner, Harrisburg 
Tech, tied for first; Templeton, Ak­
ron, South; Brodt, Akron, South; 
Albrecht, Steubenville; Johnston 
Schenley; Weil, South Hills, and 
Chinn, Fifth Avenue, tied. Height, 5 
feet 7 inches.
Track Events.
120-yard low' hurdles—Won by Day, 
New Castle; Murdock, Schenley, 
second; Ross, Harrisburg Tech, 
third; T. 'Hall, Harrisburg Tech, 
fourth; Delquadri, Rayen, fifth. 
Time—14:04.
100-yard dash—Won by M. Cook, 
Scott, Toledo; J. Harding, Alliance, 
second; H. Smith, Harrisburg Tech. 
third; McCoy, South, Youngstown, 
fourth; E. Watson, Peabody, fifth. 
Time—:10 3-5.
440-yard dash—Won by W. Burris, 
Harrisburg Tech; Rutter, Munhall, 
second; G. Hanney, Alliance, third; 
¿McLean, Homestead, fourth; Roy, 
Juniata, fifth. Time—:54 4-5.
Half mile—Won by Burris, Harris- 
budg Tech; Roy, Juniata, second; J. 
Kelly, Latrobe, third; W. Welch, 
Ford City, fourth; E. Hickoff, Lock 
Haven, fifth. Time—2.4-5.
120-yard high hurdles—Won by 
Ross, Harrisburg Tech; Keenah, New 
Brighton, second; Hall, Harrisburg 
Tech, third; McCallum, Alliance, 
fourth; Dunn, Waite, Toledo, fifth. 
Time—18.
One mile run—Won by Semanske, 
Altoona; Daniels, Alliance, second; 
Dieffnoff, South, third; Walker, Tur­
tle Creek, fourth; Hoffman, Schenley, 
fifth. Time—1:47 1-5.
220-yard dash—Won by Weaver, 
Altoona; Dailey, Latrobe, second; 
Turner, New Brighton, third; Scheff, 
Jeannette, fourth; Bruce, Steuben­
ville, fifth. Time—:25 1-5.
Class A relay—Won by Scott, To­
ledo, O. (Levitt, L. Cook, Moore, M. 
Cook); Latrobe, second; Hlrrjaburg 
Tech, third. Time—2:51 1-5.
Class B relay—Won by Peabody 
(Smith, Watson, Hamilton, Ren- 
shaw); Alliance, O., second; Schen­
ley, third. Time—2:55 1-5.
Class C relay—Won by Lock Hav­
en (Davies, Grier, Hickoff, Reitz); 
Ford City, second; New Brighton 
third. Time—2:53 1-5,
Carnegie Tech opened her home 
tennis season last Wednesday after­
noon with a decisive victory over the 
netmen of Bucknell University. The 
final score, 6-0, while indicating Car­
negie’s superiority, hardly does jus­
tice to the good playing put forth by 
Bucknell, who, it must be admitted 
were somewhat over-confident. With 
a different mental attitude, the score 
would more than likely be closer.
The initial match between Captain 
Smith and Captain McFarland or 
Bucknell started some fast tennis, 
which was continued throughout the 
afternoon. In this match both play­
ers' took chances and drove hard. 
Smith excelled in the accuracy of Ills 
drives, and time and time again 
passed his opponent with hard drives 
deep into the court. The Bucknellian 
was a least bit too erratic to success­
fully cope with a steady player of 
Captain Smith’s type, and on this af­
ternoon, Smith was almost at his 
best.
Beecher continued his good playing 
of the previous w'eek, and after a hard 
and interesting match succeeded In 
defeating McCaskey. McCaskey pur. 
up the best game for Bucknell, and 
by dint of his steadiness almost suc­
ceeded in walking away with the vic­
tory. Beecher played his usual 
steady and heady game.
Rogers and Bourns also played 
good in the singles. Through hard 
and consistent playing they won over 
Gardner and Ilorter respectively. 
Bourns, after losing the first set, camo 
back stringly after having the score 
3-0 against him in the second set, and 
won in three sets. Bourns is coming 
along nicely and will prove a good 
man. He fights hardest when his 
back is against the wall, which typo 
of player makes a mighty good man 
for any tenuis team.
Carnogie won both doubles.
The summaries:
Singles.
Smith (Carnegie Captain) defeated 
McFarland (Bucknell Captain), 0-2,
6-4.
Beecher (Carnogie) dofeated Me- 
Caskey (Bucknell), G-3, 5-7, 0-1.
Rogers (Carnegie) defeated Gard­
ner (Bucknell), 8-0, 6-1.
Bourns (Carnegie) defeated Hor- 
tor (Bucknell), 3-6, 8-6, 6-1.
Doubles.
Smith and Boecher (Carnogie) do. 
feated McFarland and MoCaakoy 
(Bucknell), 2-6, 6-1, 6-4.
Rogers and Bowron (Carnogie) do- 
feated Hort.er and Gardnor (Buck- 
noli), 7-5, 6-0.
West Virginia Defeated.
Not satisfied with tholr 4-0 victory 
over the Mountaineor tennis team 
Saturday a week ago, the Tartan var­
sity racquoters last Saturday Inflicted 
a 6-0 defeat to them. This victory 
makes a clean sweep for the Carneglo 
netmen in tholr homo and horho series 
wit'i West Virginia, and to make It 
more impressive, not a single match 
was lost by t.he Plaid players,
The lineup was changed in oiio par­
ticular from that used In Morgan­
town in that Beecher played number
3 Instead of number 2, Rogers having 
been shoved up into number -2 posi­
tion.
Captain Smith of Carnegie in the 
Initial selto overcame Jones of W. 
V. U. in straight sets, due to his 
greater steadiness and determination, 
which was forced on him by the con­
tinual attack of Jones on his back 
hand.
Rogers-continued his great game as 
played against Bucknell, and tri­
umphed over Driver in two straight 
sets, giving up only two games. Rog­
ers brought into play his hard driv­
ing forehand. Beecher also won out 
without much trouble. Beecher Is a 
hard man to beat due to his excessive 
safe playing, and good net work. In 
i the final singles match, Bourns com­
pletely outclassed his opponent.
The team is now in good shape, and 
are anxiously awaiting the engage­
ments with the University of Pitts­
burgh racquet wielders, which takes 
place on Friday afternoon on the 
Plaid courts.
On Wednesday afternoon the 
Frdshman baseball team played the 
Indiana Normal nine on the Home­
wood field, and were ¡defeated by the 
score 16-12.
The Plebes stepped off to an early 
lead and had the Itulidana team 7 to
1 in the second inning. The third 
inning was a fatal one for the Fresh­
men. The Normal nine got eight 
runs, which put them in the lead.
From the third inning on the game 
was a. close one. Indiana scored two 
runs in the fourth and “Red” Bow­
ser. the smallest man on the Plebe 
team, sent the ball for a circuit 
clout, but the bases were empty.
In the fifth inning, Diffley was at 
hat and, with the bases loaded, he 
clouted the ball for a homer, and 
that tied the' score.
The final innings were fought and 
played hard, but the Indiana team 
scored four runs and held the Plebes 
to their twelve runs.
Both teams played a loose brand 
of ball, and many runs were lost by 
men being caught off the bases.
Tlie Freshmen have a chance to 
redeem themselves when they meet 
Indiana later in the season.
¦ The line-up:
Gathers 75 Points While Vis­
itors Struggle for 42 
Tallies
Indiana.AB.R.IB.SB.
Young, ss ..................... 832 3
jray, 2 b ..................... 832 0
21 0
13 1
10 0
Murpliy, 8b ................. 821 3
Seiden, rf ................... 401 0
Bililer, cf .................... 811 0
Buosky; p ............31 1
Totals ....................... 301G12 S
Carnegie.AS.IL.1B.SB.
Snyder, 3b ................. 3o1 1
Webster, c ................. 811 0
Duffloy, lb ................. 82 0Voght, ss., p ______.. . 1io a
Stoner, If .................... . 400 0Bowser, 2b ................. 411 0
Shrwor, cf ................ . 401 (I
Scliwelnberg, rf., ss... 4o2 0Harmon, p ................. 110 0Eslior, p ..................... 211 0
Totals ....................... 2!)12Í) 1
Right and Wrong Argument
Argument Is good when It seeks to 
bring out facts. When It seeks the 
tawdry glory of temporary mastery, 
It la a wind from the desert, neither 
bearing rain, nor soothing the trav­
eler.—Exchange.
Event Worth Remembering.
In 1S38, on the twenty-fourth of 
January, Samuel F. B. Morse gave 
his first demonstration of the code of 
dots and dashes used In telegraphy 
nn<* non- l.-nnu-n »)« !\fnr«tp
For Sale—Underwood Number 4 
typewriter, in excellent condition, 
omplete with back spacer and tabula­
tor. Pica type. Good alignment and 
easy touch. Price $25.00, Johnston, 
5017 Forbes street. Schenley 9143.
Plummer for Schwelnhorg, Selnvoln-
....* for VoBlit, Voght for IStihor.
Homo mm—Dudley, Bowser;
Plebes Win First Tennis 
Match From Wilkinsburg
Taking the tournament as a whole, 
the Garnoglo Tech froshuian tennis 
team dustod-olt the Wilkinsburg 
High loam in a fairly oasy fashion 
last Saturday afternoon on the Gra­
ham Park courts. Although tl.io plobo 
netmen only lost two sots In I,ho al'tor- 
noon, and won by a 6-0 scoro, tho 
matches woro Interesting. Wilkins- 
burg boasts of a. clovor number one 
player In Hondorson, Captain and 
also Manager, who plays a well bal­
anced game, with placement shots 
featuring, Ills main trouble came In 
having to meet such a clever player 
as McWilliams, rather than any do* 
fecjiivo playing on his part. McWil­
liams won over him through .his su­
perior steadiness, and greater expe­
rience.
Rudlsiil, playing number, two, clear­
ly outplayed his opponent, ir.aklng 
use of a good change of paco, and ac­
curacy In both chop stroke and drive. 
He, as In the case of McWilliams, 
made good use of good flaying at tho 
net.
Raj Hughes, playing number three, 
ran counter of perhaps the hardest 
match of the tournament. After los­
ing tlie first sot, he round himself, 
and in the long run came through in 
good fashion. Coover, playing num­
ber four also had a rather hard time 
getting started, but once on his feet, 
rushed through the last set In lo/o 
fasb‘on.
; ••• whole team -howe-i plenty of 
gr:t and fight wi' h bet,peaks well 
for |’i°?r future.
The summaries:
McWilliams (Carnegie) defeaUd 
Henderson (Wilkinsburg), 6-1, 8-6.
Rudisill (Carnegie) defeated Scott 
(Wilkinsburg), 6-0, 6-3.
Hughes (Carnegie) defeated Had 
den (Wilkinsburg), 4-6, 6-0, 6-4.
Coover (Carnegie) defeated Me 
Dougall (Wilkinsburg), 8-6, 6-0.
McWilliams and Rudisill (Car 
negie) defeated Henderson and Scott 
(Wilkinsburg) 6-3, 6-0,
Lohr and Davidson (Carnegie) de­
feated Shaw and Douglas (Wilkins­
burg) 2-6, 6-1, 6-1.
Long Road Back.
Error, when she retraces her steps, 
has farther to go before she can arrive 
at truth than Ignorance,—Colton.
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring 
ones. Begin now to acquire 
those of aavlng and accumu­
lating money.
An account with the Mellon 
National Bank will give you 
a splendid Btart. Persistent 
savingn will develop financial 
Independence. The experi­
ence, to Bay nothing of the 
money itself, will in'later life 
prove invaluable to you.
Come in and talk It over.
Mellon National Bank
NOW OPEN 
Our New Book Shop 
in the Schenlcy Apart- 
mentn, 4018 Fifth Avenue, 
where we offer—
THE WORTH WillLK 
IN BOOKS 
SOCIA I, ENGRAVING 
and STATIONERY 
ART OBJECTS or partic­
ular merit—Unusual 
ETCHINGS and PRINTSPriscilla lutl)mscftyop
Sclieiilcu/lutsrUniotiTnisbjildtr 
\ iilhbur^h ' y
CARNEGIE HEAVILY 
0UTSC0RES GENEVA
To the great sururisa of many, the 
dual meet between Carnegie Tech 
and Geneva College, was won by the 
Plaid without much opposition. Car­
negie took the lead in the early part 
of the meet and continued to pile up 
points, and by the end of the meot 
had a 33-point lead on the Beaver 
Falls men.
Geneva took all places in the shot- 
put and first and second in the dis­
cus, leaving the third place to Good­
win. .Butler, Geneva’s star sprinter, 
took the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and 
also a second in the 440-yard dash. 
The colored boy ran beautiful races 
in both events, winning the first in
10 1-5 and the second in 23 2-5.
The running of Dykeman was some 
of the best displayed for the day In 
the two-mile run lie lapped several 
of his competitors. In the two-mile 
Bright also passed two Geneva men.
Jimmy Robertson was heavy scorer 
of the day, winning three firsts in tho 
high and low hurdles and tlio broad 
jump.
Carnegie also won three places In 
javelin, but refused to take the points 
because Geneva had no entries in tills 
event.
The winders and time of the events 
are given below:
Track Evonts.
100-yard clash—Won by Butler, Ge­
neva; Christoff, Tech, second; Shape, 
Genova, third. Tinio; : 10 1-5.
220-yard dasli—Won by Butler, Ge­
nova; Humbert, Tech, socond; Bohn, 
Tech, third. Time, :28 2-5.
440-yard dash—Won by Kramer, 
Tech; Butler, Geneva, socond; Dyke, 
Tech, third. Time, :53 15.
Half mile run—Won by Kramer, 
Tech; Wilson, Geneva, second; Dan- 
ver, Genova, third. Time 2:10 4-5.
One mile run—Won by Bright, 
Tocli; Dykoman, Tech, socond; Dan- 
vor, Geneva, third. Time, 4:52 8-5.
Two-milo run...Won by Dykeman,
Tech; Bright, Tech, socond; Luton- 
borgor, Tech, third. Time, 10:82 2-5.
120 high hurdles—Won by Robort- 
Bon, Tech; Sullivan, Tech, second; 
Hamilton, Genova, third. Tlmo, :17.
120-yard high hurdles Won by 
Robertson, Tech; Sullivan, Toch, sec­
ond; Hamilton, Gonova, third. Tlmo, 
:17.
120-yard low hurdles—-Won by Rob­
ertson, Tocli; Hamilton, Geneva, RNP, 
NUBO; Goolc, Tech, third, Tlmo, : I4 1-5.
Field Eventn.
Pole vault—Won by Smith, Toch; 
Goodwin, Toch, second; lOlllott, Ge­
neva, third. Height, 10 feet.
High jump — Won by Goodwin, 
Toch; Luty, Tech, second; Bafltlan, 
Toch, third, Height, 5 foot 8 Inches,
Broad lump...Won by Robertson,
Toch; Kantian, Tocli, second; Hamil­
ton, *Gonova, third. Dlstanco, 20 foot 
10%, inches,
Discus--Won by Lynch, Genova; 
Wilson, Geneva, socond; Goodwin, 
Toch, third. Dlstanco, 126 foot. 8 In­
ches.
,r>not put -Won bv I i'nch, Genova; 
MeFiiiland, Geneva, socoii't; Wilson, 
Geneva, third. Distance, 88 foot 6’/. 
inches.
Eat Seaweed.
China and Japan are pre-eminently 
the seaweed-eating nations of tho 
world. Among no other people are 
seaweed so extensively eaten and rel­
ished.
PLEBES ARE VICTORS 
OVER INDIANA NORMAL
The Indiana Normal track team 
proved an easy victim for the plebe 
trackers last Friday afternoon. The 
plebes took ove»j first place except 
one, that being the high jump. At 
the end of tha meet the score stood 
SI to 28. Good time was made in all 
of the cinder path events, in spite, of 
the condition of the track. Hamilton, 
Stultz, and Niroick starred for Car­
nogie, each gaumig two first places.
Ted Stultz was elected captain of 
the yearling track squad, a3 the re­
sult of a vote taken last week >'y tho 
members of the team. Ted ,s an all- 
around athlete, excelling in tho hur­
dles and broad jump, and has been an 
important figure in the victories of 
the team. Last fall he captained the 
plebe cross-country squad through a 
successful season, and is proving a 
very capable leader this spring.
The summary of events is as fol­
low's:
100-yard dash—Won by Ilamiltou, 
Tech; Sliriver, Tech, second; Alex- 
ick, Indiana, third. Time 11 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles—Won by 
Stultz, Tech; De Vries, Tech, second; 
Withorow, Indiana, third. Tlmo, 
:15 4-5.
One-mile run—Won by Peck, Tech; 
Owrslor, Indiana, second; Weimer, 
Indiana, third. Time, 5:00 1-5.
440-yard dash—Won by McKinney, 
Tech; Flowers, Tech, second; Forbes, 
Tech, third. Time, :57 2-5.
220-yard dash—Won by Hamilton, 
Tech; Kolly, Tech, second; Aloxiclc, 
Indiana, third. Time, : 24 8-5.
120-yard low hurdles—Won by 
Stultz, Tech; Do Vries, Tech, second; 
Withorow, Indiana, third. Time, :15.
Half-mile run—Won by Ewing, 
Tech; Murphy, Indiana, second; 
I-Iobe, Indiana, third. Time, 2:1.7 3-5,
High jump—Won by Dist, Indiana; 
Cartor, Tech, socond; Smothon, Tech, 
third. Height, 5 foot 1 Inch.
Shot put—Won by Mliulck, Tech; 
Golst, Indiana, socond; Bullingor, 
Toch, third. Distance, 41 foot 8 ML 
inches.
Discus throw -Won by Mlmlck, 
Toch; Golst, Indiana, second; Bridges, 
Toch, third. Dlstanco, 18 foot 7 OIX 
clios.
Broad jump Won by Rhodos, 
Toch; Golst, Indiana, socond; 
Bridges, Toch, third. Dlstanco, 18 
foot 7 Inchon.
WRIGLEYS
after every meal
Cleamven month and teeth an«l aldni dlgcflllon.
Relieve« that over- cairn fccllufj and acid mouth.
SSE l>-n-N-I-l-n-n flavor 
MallKllcM the cravlna lor Aiwecto.
Wrlul'cy*® SE double value In the benefllt and pleasure It provides.
Scaled In ita Purity 
FacMal"
DAVIES
=71/1 XT' Tyr
and HUGHES
Cj/KlijviN
8815 FORBES STREET422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Next To Strand TheaterCraig At Forbea
OPEN EVENINGS
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
with the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience un­
necessary; no canvassing. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newswrlters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reaerv« 
System.
Capital...................... 1300,000.00
Surplus.....................5300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Get Extra Credits at Home—I
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics,Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology,etc., 
arc given by correspondence. Learn how the credit: they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog depxribing courses fully, 
furnished on request. Write today.
OH 121.LIS HALLŒljc Uiiibei-áítj) of Cfjicago
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MAY 13, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE&
Department of Electrical Engineering
By Prof. William R. Work.
The course in 'Electrical Engineer­
ing in designed to educate men to 
occupy positions in some one of tlie 
many fields of activity connected 
•with tlie utilization of electricity in 
tlie service of man.
Tho present extensive and over­
growing use of energy to supplement 
01* replace manual labor is largely 
possible, because of the ease with 
which tiiis energy can be drawn 
from coal or wator-fall and trans­
ported by wires to distant points. 
All of our means of rapid communi­
cation are wholly dependent upon 
electricity for their very existence. 
Many industrial process could not bo 
carried on without electricity, while, 
others can bo performed more 
economically or conveniently by its 
use.
The eltctrical work of the world 
is accomplished by literally thou­
sands of kinds of electrical ma­
chines or devices, only a few of 
which are commonly known to tlie 
non-technical man. lie sees tho in­
candescent lamp, but he does not see 
the chain of apparatus which is 
necessary to generate and distribute 
the energy to the lamp, or to con­
trol and protect the circuits. He 
sees the relatively simple telephone 
instrument, but ho does not see the 
maze of equipment in the central of­
fice.
Electrical engineers find opportu­
nities for service In the develop­
ment, design, manufacture, or sale of 
electrical apparatus and devices, and 
in the selection and operation of 
eloótrlcal equipment. Electricity is 
so adaptable to a variety of usos 
that inventions and extensions of 
use are constantly being made.
Proposed applications require some 
sort of development bofore they are 
ready for adoption, accordingly num-
BLUE BANDANA PLAY 
WILL BE C. W. FINALE
The tickets for the Alumni por 
formance of "The Blue Bandana/' to 
bo given Saturday night at the 
Schenley Thoatqr, are rapidly soil­
ing.
Tho play, a melodrama, written by 
Hugh Osborne, will bo of interest to 
everyone, bocanso it will reveal lhe 
intrigues of tho famous Blue Ban­
dana (Jung, which so long baffled tho 
"wlHO-mon” of this district. Tho 
plot centers about tho unusual re- 
semblance of a notorious crook and 
a millionaire. Paul McGrath w 
• •loverly portray tho dual role, Wom­
an-haters will bo especially ploascd 
with tills production, because there 
is only one woman in tho whole 
show, Joan Blake, a, Freshman.
Surely, you don’t want to miss this 
stupendous revelation! Send n check 
Immediately lo Cl, h, Tilbroolc of tho 
Alumni Olllco. The cost Is only one 
dollar, with an additional llftoon 
cents to insure mailing.
Travoln of tho Potato.
B is believed I hat potatoes wore 
first grown In South America and that 
tho Spaniards l:oo)c Ihom hack to Eu­
rope when (hey overran I'em. Potiv 
loon wore later introduced to Italy, 
France, England, Ireland and to 
(North America, In the order named.
-------
hers of men trained in electrical 
science are employed in research. 
Those men investigate physical phe­
nomena and co-ordinate their dis­
coveries to produce a desired, use­
ful result.
Designing engineers take the 
product of research, both recent and 
old, and calculate dimensions and 
specify materials to be - used in the 
manufacture of electrical apparatus. 
This sort of work has been so highly 
developed that it is possible to pre­
dict, quite accurately, the perform­
ance of a machine, such as a motor, 
before It is built. Designing engi­
neers are frequently promoted to 
executive positions In charge of the 
manufacture of- apparatus witli which 
they are familiar.
Certain kinds of electrical appara­
tus can be most effectively sold by 
men trained as engineers. Often the 
customer is not capable of specify­
ing the apparatus ho needs; the 
sales engineer discusses tho problem 
and makes recommendations as to 
typo and size of units required.
Corporations making extensive use 
of electrical apparatus maintain 
staffs of engineers to select and 
supervise tlie operation of tho equip­
ment. Functions of tlie same kind 
aro performed by the engineering 
staffs of power companies.
The various positions listed above 
cull for somewhat different charac­
teristics on the part of the individ­
uals who fill them, but each of them 
demands a certain degree of knowl­
edge of tho physical laws which 
govern the behaviour of electrical 
apparatus. Accordingly, tho princi­
ples of electricity and the applica­
tion of these, principles to practice. 
Laboratory work accompanies class­
room Instruction,' wherever this is 
possible. To give a well-rounded 
technical education, extreme specili- 
zation is avoided and courses in 
allied engineering Holds are Included.
MIDWEST CLUB PLANS FEED 
FOR ALUMNI RETURNING 
FROM GREAT OPEN SPACES
A luncheon for the alumni of tlie 
Midwest Club will be held In the 
Schenley Hotel dining room, Thurs­
day noon, of Campus Week, Im­
mediately -after the Vaudeville Show. 
The custom of navlng such a re­
union for tlie alumni of the Western 
States was started last year, when 
a similar banquet was held.
The officers for the next year will 
bo elected at this time. No other, 
business will bo taken up, as the 
members expect to partake in the 
events of Campus Week, scheduled 
for tlie afternoon.
All alumni from the Western 
States, whether former members of 
the club or not, are urged to attend 
tills luncheon.
Peg Harmon, Dramat ’23, 
Now Supervising Y. W.
C. A. Gym Activities
Movie Actors Attend 
Special Performance
Alumni Have Gala Evening; 
Old Scenes Enacted
Showing!
—ON—
Monday
—AT—
Skibo Inn
Broad Street 
Clothiers, Inc.
NEW YORK
Clothes of 
Conservative Smartness
Back of old Carneglo. Yes, all the 
way across the continent went (ho 
thoughts of tho body of Alumni who 
gathered for a special gala perform­
ance and a special showing of tho 
movie Him, “Secrets,” at tho Cri­
terion Theater, In Los Anglos, Cali­
fornia, on April '12.
The famous old Toch Spirit, which 
travels with her fame, burst fort'll 
and lasted throughout the evening, 
giving tho performance tho appear­
ance of a special day on the Campus, 
Plebe 1’Upn, canes, and colloge hats, 
were prevalent,. Tho Ball I Bali I 
hoys whooped her up with college 
yells and songs, which brought back 
old scenes and memories.
As a tribute to Norma Talnmdgo, 
star of "Secrets,” tho Alumni hail the 
special performance arranged, and 
had the noted actress as an honor 
guest;. She was chosen as the favor* 
lte star and showed her appreciation 
by being present In person. Other 
noted stars present were Margaret 
Livingstone and Frank Mayo,
Thoiio get-together occasions of 
former graduates are proving,' not 
only bonollolnl to graduates them­
selves, but; serve to advertise and 
spread tho fame of Carnegie Col­
leges and Its work. Tho movie Is 
probably one of tho best advertising 
schemes In tho country today. They 
can well afford to booomo acquainted 
with Carnegie Colleges. Actors aro 
not all natural-born artists. Many of 
them are trained men and womeu. 
Tho moving picture field offers a big 
opportunity for the technically 
trained Individual as, not only do 
they use talented stars, but they 
havo need of technical men and 
women from the start to tlie finish 
in this business. A greater percent­
age of Carnegie graduates will be at­
tracted to this field in the near fu­
ture than are at present in it.
LAST YEAR’S QUEEN 
IN Y. W. C. A. WORK
As the eve of Campus Week ap­
proaches,. memories of Campus 
Weeks of yore come tripping 
through our minds. Memories—yes, 
of Vaudeville 9OUNT4Y Sweepstakes, 
Mardi Gras and innumerable other 
events. Undoubtedly the aforemen­
tioned contribute considerably to 
that blithe and merry spirit, known 
as tlie Spirit of Campus Week.
There is, however, one event 
which, more or less, counteracts this 
spirit, substituting for it one of 
dignity and stateliness. You have 
guessed it—I refer to the Coronation, 
for it is the one impressive cei’e- 
mony of the week, when the most 
representative girl of Carnegie Tech 
Is crowned with all the solemnity 
and regal splendor, due such an oc­
casion,
Remember last Cnmpus Week? 
Remember the Coronation? Of 
course, you do. When Miss Mar­
garet Harmon, a dramatist of the 
College of Fine Arts, was crowned 
as a Chinese Empress, to reign over 
Carneglo during Campus Week of 
1023.
The movies, newspapers and 
magazines throughout the country 
told (ho story of the majestic cere­
mony and of the most stately and 
beautiful Queen of Carneglo. But 
Peg was not only beautiful—she was 
one of the most active persons on 
the campus. Sho was a member of 
several girl's honorarlos and held re­
sponsible class—and other oilicos. 
But her chief sourco of fame cen­
tered In the part, she played in such 
successful productions as "Ship 
Ahoy”'and ''Ronny’s Place.'”
At p'rosent Miss Harmon, who re­
sides In Mt. Pleasant, is engaged in 
social work. She is supervisor of 
tho gymnasium activities of the Y. 
W. c. A. in Scottdale, and Is suc­
ceeding in making this branch one of 
the most active In tho organization,
BLUE BANDANA MAY APPEAR
IN NEW YORK CITY THIS JUNE
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
been abandoned, and (hose sold wero 
scattered all over (lie house.
Don't hold off until the last minute, 
for, while It is probable that (bore 
will be seats left up (o the tlmo the 
performance starts, it is very pos­
sible that they Will all bo sold. In 
this case, it will bo hard on any 
student who has not seen the first 
performance, for lie will not be able 
to get any seats for Saturday night, 
until all the Alumni have been taken 
care of.
Get your tickets as soon as pos­
sible. It’s a Campus Week event. 
Nuf ced!
THE TELESCOPE
CAMPUS WEEK
As tho Alumni and Alumnae come 
on tho Campus, they will find It to 
be in somewhat of a turmoil, which 
Is unfortunate but, apparently, un­
avoidable. The ditches, etc., will not J 
be sufliclently progressed, however, 
so that there is much danger of any­
one tripping Into the ditch on their 
way to the registration desk at the 
Library Hut.
It is most earnestly requested that 
all Alumni and Alumnae avail them­
selves of the services of the registra­
tion clerks. The various classes will 
bo unable to learn who of their mem­
bers is back on the campus, if this 
is not adhered to. Even, if one of 
your big incentives to return was the 
desire to meet the new brothers at 
the Frat house, surely you also want 
to seo your old buddies and have 
them on the “lookout” for you.
Furthermore, be sure you register 
at tlie desk for the Annual Luncheon 
in the New Gim. The event prom­
ises, to be the most memorable event 
of the whole Campus Week and, 
surely, you will not miss it. The 
Annual Luncheon is a mustering of 
the old guard—of the ones who be­
long to Carnegie, and are proud of 
it, and of the ones who will, in a 
large measure, control the policies of 
the institution in the future.
The various events speak for them­
selves, and we need not urge you to 
attend them. Some will appeal to 
you more than will others. Take 
your choice, and have the time of 
your life.
THE CAMPUS IS YOURS, AND 
SO IS CAMPUS WEEK. GO TO IT!!
ALUMNAE-VARSITY VOLLEY 
BALL GAME IS FEATURE 
AFTER ANNUAL LUNCHEON1Department of Building Construction
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continued From Page One.)
The fraternity pin tradition is too 
beautiful to be broken and wiped 
out by thoughtless handling. In the 
good, old days a man was very sure 
he was in love before he parted with 
his hard-earned pin. Possibly it is 
still true that the men are in love, 
only they have the niodern ability of 
falling in love ofteher. Who can 
tell?
At any rate, with the horrible ex­
ample of the. I. C. S. bofore us, we 
ought to be doubly careful of vWlien 
and where we dispose of our fra* 
tertinv pins. Think how frightful it 
would be for , the man if lie forgot 
which girl had which jewelled pin! 
How gruelling for the girl if she got 
her pins and men mixed!
Seriously, though, do you think 
that a fraternity pin means as much 
as it used to? In some cases, yes» 
but in others, no. It is those others 
who are spoiling the sacredness and 
beauty of the old. old tradition for
There will be a Volley Ball Game 
betwedn Alumnae and Varsity, fol­
lowing the Alumni Luncheon at 
noon. The lusty Alumnae, still able 
to bear the brunt of the world and 
retain their vigor, are to play the 
Varsity on tlie Athletic Field. We 
have hopes of seeing Eleanor Fos­
ter, Jean Aiken Faulkner, Eleanor 
Craver, Josephine Whitney and., the 
rest of those "illustrious luminaries” 
that wield a wicked right. Eleanor 
Craver, chairman, Montrose 1817, 
574G Howe street, Pittsburgh.
SWIMMING PARTY 
IN THE NEW GYM
Pool Open for Alumnae 
Friday—Men on Satur­
day
And now the fun begins! Doesn’t 
it seem outside the realm of reality 
that there should be an honest-to- 
goodness swimming party, in no 
other pool than our own. Oh, yes. 
we have a swimming pool, a brand- 
new one which is anxiously awaiting 
the appearance of the Alumnae on 
Friday night. Won’t there be an 
awful rush to see who is the first to 
be baptized in the waters of Car­
negie Tech? And, just think—it may 
be you.
For two hours preceding the Mardi 
Gras, from 7 to 9 o’clock, the pool 
will be used exclusively by the 
Maggie Murplis and Arts girls of 
years gone by, who may splash and 
dash to their hearts’ content.
What can induce as much pep as 
a good swim? And you want to take 
lots of pep with you to the Mardi 
Gras.
This swim should be very success­
ful, and should have its place on the 
list of annual events of Campus 
Week. Each girl must bring her 
own bathing suit and cap. The 
towels will be furnished at the gym. 
Miss Helen Reitz is chairman of the 
Swimming Party, and all who are 
planning to attend should call her, if 
possible, before that evening. Her 
telephone number is Highland 4418.
By Prof. C. G. Dunnells.
The building industry offers a wide 
range of choice for a career to the 
young man having a thorough techni- j 
cal training in the fundamental pro­
cesses of the industry. Today, build- j 
ing construction has become a highly 
specialized vocation for which men 
must.be trained thoroughly if theyj 
would meet the keen competition that 
is encountered on every hand. The 
erection and equipment of modern 
buildings, residences, office buildings, 
hotels, hospitals and factories, require 
a knowledge of the principles of con­
struction, of building materials, of 
the estimating of costs and of the in­
stallation of equipment that will in­
sure proper lighting, heating and I 
ventilating. There is a need, there­
fore, for men who are trained to build 
and to supervise the erection of aj 
building—the contractor and the su­
perintendent; to estimate quantities 
and costs of building materials—the 
estimator; to make detail drawings to 
supplement the architect’s plans—the 
structural draftsman; to equip the 
building for its intended use—the 
specialist in electrical equipment and 
construction, and in heating and 
ventilating.'
The course in Building Construc­
tion is designed to meet the need for 
trained men in the building industry. 
It consists of classroom and labora­
tory work in mathematics, chemistry 
and physics. Architectural, engineer­
ing and structural drawing form an 
essential part of the course. Survey-1 
ing is required of all students. Shop ! 
work is given in carpentry, electric j 
work, heating and ventilating, ma- j 
sonry, plumbing and sheet metal. | 
Engineering instruction, modified to ; 
meet the needs of building construc- j 
tion, is given in graphic statics, test- j 
ing of materials, strength of materi-1 
als, timber and steel construction, re­
inforced concrete, foundations, ge­
ology and engineering specifications 
and reports. The course includes also 
training in general suojects; English, 
English literature, economics, indus­
trial history, psychology, credit and 
banking, commercial law, building 
law, American government and poli­
tics, employmnt problems and special­
ized instruction in estimating, in cost 
systems and in shop processes and
Standing Army of Ants.
The standing army maintained by 
the white a ts of Ceylon practices a 
sort of chemical warfare against its 
Insect enemies. They squlrr drops of 
a secretion in the face ol’ other ants, 
which are said to drive them almost 
crazy.
those girls who appreciate its im­
portance
CALENDAR FOR ALUMNI
10:00 A. M.- 
12:00 M.-
1:30 P. M.- 
2:00 P. M.- 
2:30 P. M.- 
6:30 P. M.-
10:00 A. M___•
7:00 P. M.- 
9:00 P. M.-
9:00 A. M.- 
10:00 A. M.-
12:00 M.-
1:00 P. M.-
2:00 P. M.- 
4:00 P. M.- 
6:00 P. M.- 
8:00 P. M.-
8:15 P. M.-
THURSDAY, MAY 15
Vaudeville Show....................................................Carnegie Music Halt
-Midwest Club Luncheon...............................................Schenley Hotel
¦Qualification nnd Call......................................................Carnegi’e Bowl
Kaper of Kilties...................................................................Carnegie Bowl
Tree Planting ............................................................................................ cut
Coronation of Queen ..................................Arts School Terrace
FRIDAY, MAY 16
¦Tennis Match—Girls ..................................................................... Courts
County Fair ............................................................................................ Bowl
Tennis Match—Pitt-Tech ............................................................ Courts
Track Moot—Pitt-Tech ....................................................................... Bowl
Alumnae Swim..........................................................New Carnegie Pool
¦Mardi Gras..................................................................Lab. and Gym.
SATURDAY, MAY 17
•Girls’ Sweepstakes .................................................... Central Building
-Inter-fraternity Sweepstakes.................................. Central Building
Guard Mount ............................................................................................. Cut
•Alumni Luncheon ..........................................................................New Gym
Girls’ Volley Ball Game ...............................................................................
Girls’ Baseball Game ..................................................................Bowl
Alumni Tennis Match ............................................................. .. .Courts
•Alumni Swim ........................................................................New Pool
•Women’s Banquet ..................................................................... Commons
-“Blue Bandana”—Alumni Performance..................Schenlev Theater
SUNDAY, MAY 18 
-Graduates’ Concert................................................Carnegie Music Hall
Incidently, have you picked your C. 
W. Q. yet? What does, that mean? 
Figure it out for yourself, you have 
to have one Campus Week.
ìû &ou smoke a pipe 
(if you don’t you ought, to) 
it ma& be worth &our while 
to read this
You know tobacco is a vege­
table; it grows out of the ground, 
nnd when it’s green, it is too 
liarsh and strong to smoke. Tho 
very best way to remove that 
harshness and bitterness is by 
thorough ageing in wood. To 
age Velvet Tobacco in wood is 
expensive for us—yes, very ex­
pensive, and it takes time, but it 
gives you a milder, cooler smoke 
with a finer flavor.
It’s 10 to 1 you’ll like Velvet 
Tobacco—aged in wood.
DUssG22 n HVCU
ALUMNUS! VISITOR! ALUMNA! | 
— REGISTER! ———> |
Conie to the Hut and register as soon as you hit the Campus! You will receive a class numeral and badge !
as a means of identification. !
[ DO YOU KNOW?
That Campus Week is here, and 
that every one is out for the best 
time ever? Are you going to be in 
on it?
That plain clothes men will be 
scrutininzlng every nook nnd corner 
for any thing that looks like 
"Spirits” during tho entire Campus 
Week celebration. If, in any way, a 
student should ho caught ho will he 
marshalled .before the mighty Dean 
of Mon. If an outsider, ho will he 
taken to tho polico court.
That, a definite effort Is being 
made to eliminate the outsider and 
make Campus Week an All-Tech af­
fair?
That one year ago at tho luncheon 
held in the Fort Pitt for Alumni, the 
Alumni Federation Board passed a 
resolution, which made the remain­
ing six of the Old Guard life mem­
bers of the Board? They are Wurtz, 
Triiiks, Follows, Pfouts, Leeds and 
James.
Tlie Mardi Gras. Friday night, and 
the Sweepstakes, Saturday morning 
at 10 o’clock. Is that sarcasm, or 
merely an oversight?
mei£s-Shoes
A new sport oxford for 
campus, links, court or 
veranda! Soft tan buckskin, 
apron and side panels of 
calfskin artfully combined 
for servia and comfort — 
John Ward Su[>pl Soles of 
crude rubber -TheSeapuit, 
and nuny other new 
xnodels, wll be shown by 
Dnvid T. Kirkpatrick at
SKIBO INN 
on Saturday, May 17 
nnd Monday, May 19
The SEAPUIT 
$9
Stores in Nrwibrk .Brpcklyn. Newatk Phila.«» Address ÍW Mail Orde» \2\ Du siili? fld-Tcec-íírwYorhCicy
[JDO YOU RECALL? ]
When Mr. and Mrs. Carnegie made 
a visit to the school on April 27, 
1911, and a big reception was held 
in the MQsic Hall?
Mr. Carnegie gave a short, infor 
mal heart-to-heart talk, which • was 
rapturously received by the audience, 
which consisted of the students nnd 
faculty only. A big family gathering, 
as Mr, Carnegie termed it.
Mrs. Carnegie, after some per­
suasion from' Mr. Carnegie, spoke a 
few words of greeting and apprecia­
tion. Other speakers were Judgo 
Bufilngton and Dr. John II. Brashear. 
Tho “Spirit of Tech” shown on this 
occasion has, probably, never been 
surpassed since.
In 1915 Carnegie buttons were 
given out from a bushel basket to 
all faculty members and students, 
also the original faculty members 
were supplied with regular Carnegie 
Medals.
The Campus Week play will be 
called the "Blue Bandana.” If it’s 
supposed to be a symbol of work, it 
is correctly named.
management. Numerous visits of in­
spection are made to buildings in the 
course of construction in the Pitts­
burgh district correlating the class­
room, shop and laboratory instruction 
with actual working conditions.
For studnts who desire to special­
ize in the field of equipment of build­
ings two options are offered: Elec­
trical Equipment and Construction 
and Heating and Ventilating. The 
course given in electrical equipment 
and construction is planned to train 
men to install, operate and maintain 
electrical equipment and to lay out, 
estimate and supervise electrical con­
struction work.
In addition to the courses mention- • 
ed previously, electrical equipment 
students take storage battery practice, 
electric repair and manufacture, low 
voltage systems, * illumination and 
photometry, power plant operation, 
transmission systems, electric draw­
ing and machine shop. The specific 
work in the electrical shops and 
laboratories is not intended for de­
sign and manufacture.
There is no more important work 
than that which has to do with pub­
lic health. This type of work is 
covered in the Heating and Ventilat­
ing? and Sanitary Equipment major. 
Sanitation, from the industrial stand­
point, includes heating and ventilat­
ing, and sanitary equipment or 
plumbing. Each of these callings of­
fers a wide field of usefulness, but 
usually, under modern industrials, 
conditions are combined in one per­
son, due to the close realtionsliip 
that exists between the occupations. 
In addition to the curricula, already 
stated, students in Heating and Ven­
tilating receive instruction in Power 
plant operation, heat, building sani­
tation, hydraulics, air conditioning, 
designing of ventilating systems, etc., 
pumps and fans, and bacteriology.
Graduates of the Building Con­
struction Course hold the following 
positions: Superintendents of con­
struction, estimators, structural steel 
draftsmen, appraisal engineers, high 
school teachers, sub-station design­
ers, electrical salesmen, electrical 
draftsmen, electrical construction 
superintendents, assistant managers 
of branch offices, assistant managers 
of supply manufacturing companies, 
contracting for self.
SELECTION OF MISS GIBSON CURTAIN RISES AT
IS A POPULAR ONE 10:30 THURS. MORN
Continued From Page One.) 
above reproach, and the girls on the 
Coronation Committee are counting 
on needing no artificial light to Im­
prove the photographing of the.coro­
nation. . Just in case it should rain, 
the new gym will have the honor of 
having tho ceremony held within its 
walls, so that we will have the cere­
mony, whether the weather is against 
us or not. Meanwhile, we had all 
better pray for rain, so that fair 
weather will be insured!
On last Sunday, all the girls in the 
coronation group were fitted for their 
dresses, and work on them is going 
forward with great dispatch. Every 
little detail that could possibly en­
hance the gorgeousness of the scene 
is being taken care of. Even the 
throne is in process of being built. 
S'uch careful preparation could not 
help insuring a successful and beauti­
ful coronation.
Come early on Thursday, and bring 
your friends. Beniember, this is 
perhaps, the greatest event of the 
whole week of celebration, and we 
must all do our part to make it a 
real and lasting triumph.
SPORRAN PROBE UNEARTHS
BIG C. W. SCANDAL
(Continued From Page One.) 
Comfort will fill a large gap in the 
scenery, and Bull Yoder, as . the 
anemic cripple, will give even the 
men in the audience a chance to 
weep without shame.
The other acts of the bill hold to 
just as high a standard. Haldene 
and Albright appear in a comedy 
skit that is the funniest thing out­
side your own family. Ann Luria 
and Warren • Kimball execute the 
Argentine Tango, as it is danced in 
its native haunts. Obie Newman 
sings some new songs in that ap­
pealingly plaintive way of his, ac­
companied by Grace Broderick on 
the piano, and Van Atta on the 
bango. A new Carengie song, fruit 
of the co-operative effort of Polesie 
and Haldene, is introduced by a 
quartet of golden voices. The air is 
attractive, not to say catchy, and 
ought to register instantaneously. A 
magnificent orchestra of unlimited 
repertoire fills the vacant spaces by 
searching for a few lost chords.
(Continued From Page One.) 
various committees that they know 
by whom they have been worked and 
hence the most aggressive shall be 
named. Marys Quick, Hill, Gleason, 
Sorgen and Sweeney; Sarah Eliza­
beth Hayes and Sara Mae Everett; 
Charlotte Durie, Jessie Filson, Dorma 
Bidemayers, Esther Smith, Madeline 
Dale, Gerry Corbett, Honey Wilson, 
Isabelle Collins, Edie Jenkins, Dor­
othy JEsterbroolc, Peggie Dow, Dot 
Smith, Alice Norton, Helen Claggett | 
and Peg Eckliart.
All Carnegie is deeply indebted to 
these maidens and they deserve the 
gratitude of the entire student body 
for their researches.
Damon— _
“Hey; there I Aren’t you a friend 
of mine:”
Pythias—
VI certainly am. I’d do anything 
in the world for you. Yes, a inj­uring!"
Damon—
“All right—prove it! Give me back 
that Eldorado pencil you borrowed last night.”
PXXON’S
~Oie master dm&inôpencil'
17 leads—r1 1,'alert
pf5J5JBJH5J5MBJ5JBJ5jS15J5I5J5JS/BM515J5EIBMEJBM5J5i5J5MSIBE/5J5JSMSÍBÍ5JSJ5J51SJ5í51SJSJBí
Symbol of Real Quality
J tiSÍSJSÍ2M5J5M5íBJ5J5JBHEj5JSJSÍSEj5JHSJ5í5MSMSÍ5í5M5M5I5HSÍHISi515I51Si5J5HSÍ5H5i5j
