Drama Head Bows Out
Baker Salsburyphoto by P R
tana Nelson 
Baker Salsbury, acting head of the 
drama department, resigned on April 1. 
Professor Lawrence Carra has been 
appointed as new acting head of the drama 
department. Carra has been a professor in 
CMU’s drama department since 1946.
Salsbury said, “I resigned because of 
deep and apparently irreconcilable differ­
ences with Dean Akrim Midani concerning 
matters of policy and management in the 
drama department. I do not intend to 
make public anything further than that. It 
is a matter for the drama faculty and the 
university administration to work out.” 
Reluctant to talk about the opposing
views surrounding his resignation, Salsbury 
said, “Like any liberal enlightened human- 
being I think more information is better 
than less,” and he continued, “But, more 
information at this time is not necessarily 
the best thing. I hope that my act of resig­
nation was a strong statement .about how I 
felt.”
Salsbury stressed that he has resigned as 
head of the department but not as a fac­
ulty member. Although he has been consid­
ering a few other schools, at present, he 
plans to remain at CMU.
In a letter to drama alumni dated April
4, Midani wrote, “the administration of the
A tartan
April 8,1975 Volume 75 Number 22
Financial Aid Revises Policies
department must be consolidated m the 
firm hands of a wise and experienced 
leader.” Midani continued,“Professor Carra 
is a veteran faculty member in the depart­
ment and well respected for his wide- 
ranging professional career as a man of the 
theatre. I believe that his administration 
shall give the department during this crit­
ical period of the search, strength as well as 
artistic credibility and visibility.”
Carra served as Acting Chairman of the 
drama department from September 1949 
to June 1951. He has staged more than 300 
plays on Broadway, off Broadway and for 
television. He produced the ABC-TV Pul­
itzer Prize Playhouse. He recently directed 
Shaw’s “Candida”, starring Celeste Holm in 
the Broadway production at the Longacre 
Theatre.
The search committee, composed of all 
tenured drama faculty, has considered 
some 75 candidates and will continue to 
look for more potential candidates to 
become permanent head of the Depart­
ment.
by Bruce Lindsay
/
The Financial Aid department has 
begun a revision of its old policies in an 
effort to disperse its funds more equitably 
next year. Notices regarding significant 
features of the new rulings have been 
posted around campus and distributed to 
residents by SDC. A comprehensive pam­
phlet is currently being drafted and should 
be ready within a few weeks.
The major changes which are being im­
plemented include policies regarding: in­
dependent students, off-campus budgets, 
limits on grants and a new policy on out­
side grants.
Independent students are subject to new 
guidelines, not all students who are eligible 
by federal standards may be eligible by 
state standards. Concern has been voiced 
regarding the inequities of independence, 
especially in a case where parents can 
afford to contribute but refuse. The 
University will now refuse to subsidize 
those applicants who can afford to pay. It 
is not abdicating its commitment to meet 
financial need, need will be met through 
oans and work programs.
New budgets have been established to 
determine financial need: Resident-$5150, 
Commuter-$3975, 0ff-campus-$4800, 
independent (yearly)-$6100. The off- 
campus figure is based on $77/month rent 
and $51/month food as compared to $775 
room and $800 food for residents. Finan­
cial aid feels that there should be no incen­
tive to live off-campus. It costs more to live 
on-campus, thus need is lower for students 
living off-campus. It is an attempt to dis­
perse its pool of money a« equitably as 
possible. However, Walter Cathie, Director 
of Financial Aid, commented, “If they 
[students] can show that their living costs 
are higher than that established for off- 
campus students, we’ll bring it up to the 
$5150 figure.”
Regret was expressed about the timing 
of the notice. Students wishing to take 
advantage of the higher budget for campus 
facilities may not be eligible for room 
draw. There may also be insufficient hous­
ing accomodations for those students 
desiring them.
The ceiling on CMU grants at $2600 will 
greatly affect CMAP students. Financial 
Aid is attempting to remove the burden
from middle class applicants. Again, more 
loans and work-study programs will be 
available to supplement need requirements.
The outside grant policy was instituted 
to give incentive to students to acquire 
money from sources other than CMU. In 
the past, if a student received a gift from a 
source other than CMU or the government, 
the institutional grant was reduced by 
100% of that amount. Now they will only 
take half of the award away. Financial 
Aid awards are based on expected percen­
tage of these outside sources.
Serious penalties are being incorporated 
into the new institutional policies. Late- 
continued on page 14Walter Cathie photo by Fred Shamlian
Senate Slashes Budgets
Emergency System Begins
by Kevin Turcotte
A new system of ten emergency phones 
will be installed on the CMU campus 
before May 1. The phones will provide a 
24-hour direct line to Security. Nine of the 
ten phones will be exterior units.
The phones will require no dialing and 
will be housed in aluminum cabinets that 
have been painted and stenciled. “It’ll be 
easily identifiable,” said Michael Corletti, 
Security director.
“There aren’t a lot of phones but I 
think they’re strategic enough to give us 
pretty good service,” said Corletti. “I think 
these areas [covered by the phones] are 
areas of large concern.”
“We have to respond to every call, even 
if they are just able to knock the phone off
the receiver. We’ve got to assume this per­
son was unable to talk to us,” said Corletti.
The question of vandalism and false 
alarms was brought up, but Corletti feels 
assured that students will respect the 
equipment. “People will have to look at 
this as a piece of emergency equipment. 
It’s to help everybody.”
The new system is similar to the three- 
phone system that connects Security with 
the Morewood desk, the Donner desk and 
the phone on the corner of Forbes and 
Fifth, near Mudge.
The emergency system will have a size­
able installation fee and a $300-$400 
monthly service charge. “It’s a substantial 
amount but I -think students wiil realize the 
value of it.”
continued oh page .11
by Charles Mitch
Allocation cuts of over $6000 were 
approved by Student Senate at meetings on 
April 1 and April 2. The cuts, needed to 
avoid a large deficit, include elimination of 
funding for the Technical and Commuter 
Council and a $2000 reduction in the pro­
gramming fund.
Finance Committee Chairman Dave 
Groupe has expressed reservations about 
the size of allocations for next year, even 
after the cuts, stating “While we haven’t 
overallocated, in my opinion we haven’t 
left enough leeway for nect year. Groups
like WRCT will come in asking for a 
revision because their budget is too low 
and new groups will pop up which will 
want money. There could have been more 
cuts made in the budget.”
A budget of $97,768 was approved by 
Senate. This figure includes $86,336 ear­
marked for specific organizations, $8432 
for allocation requests anticipated in the 
future and a $3000 reserve fund. Income 
from the activities fee for ’75-’76 has been 
estimated at $96,000. Additionally at least 
$3000 in unspent money, allocated for 
’74-’75 is expected to be available, giving
continued on page 9
CMU capture« Rotary Championship. Story on page 23 photo by Mery Key Groupe

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN—April 8, *975
editor’s note
“Governments, like clocks, go from the motions men give them, 
and as governments are made and moved by men, so by them are 
they ruined too. Wherefore governments rather depend upon men 
than men upon governments. ”
William Penn: Preface to the Frame of Government 
of Pennsylvania, 1682 It's common knowledge that the Hockey Club plays
hockey, WRCT broadcasts on the radio and the Explorers 
Club explores. But, what does that governing body, Student 
Senate do, except have control over $90,000? If money 
determines power, Student Senate can be considered power­
ful. This power is meaningless. And the first persons to say 
that this governing body is a joke are the Senators, them­
selves—our representatives.
President of Student Government Beverly Robinson has 
been a member of Senate for three years. She won’t be on 
Senate next year because “I don’t think Senate’s doing any­
thing significant.” Robinson maintains she can work with 
Academic Affairs, the Trustee’s committee, Faculty Senate 
Committee and the Pennsylvania Student Lobby without 
being on Senate. She feels that it’s a waste of time to spend 
an hour or two every week at Student Senate meetings where 
nothing is accomplished.
The chairperson of Student Senate, the head of Finance 
Committee and the head of Rules Committee also express 
dissatisfaction with Senate’s operation. Usually, the leaders 
of any student organization feel some motivation as to the 
purpose of what they are doing. Senators don’t seem to know 
Senate’s purpose. The leaders of Senate wait for the day 
when they can turn in their keys.
Unfortunately, the near future of Senate appears bleak. 
With 43 seats open, only 28 candidates are running for 
Senate seats, none being from Fine Arts. And after sitting at 
the polls last semester in Fine Arts, / fail to see how any 
competent Senators will be written in for that constituency. 
Just convincing fine Arts students to vote was hard enough. 
In H&SS, only two students are running. Apparently, H&SS 
students feel their student advisory committees are doing 
enough for them or else, Senate just doesn’t mean anything.
After all, what’s the incentive to participate in Student 
Senate? It’s an eye-catcher on a resume. They have an oppor­
tunity to cut funds to all the organizationsthey may not like.Senate must concern itself with issues which can renew 
the organization’s credibility. For example, Bev Robinson 
explained that she thought H&SS students lost out when 
H&SS courses were devalued from 12 units to nine units. 
Many students say that content of these courses has not 
changed. For less units they are expetted to work just as 
hard. Senate could have worked with Academic Affairs to 
thoroughly research the issue. If H&SS students had con­
fidence in Senate, they might have gone to Senate for assist­
ance.
The Pennsylvania Legislature recently took away three- 
hundred thousand dollars away from CMU; this money pre­
viously went towards student financial aid. New resources 
will have to be found for this money because it will still be 
needed. Robinson wants Senate to start a write-in campaign 
to Governor Schapp where Senate would supply the 
envelopes, stamps and paper. Students could write a letter in 
Skibo to the legislature, stressing the importance of the 
money. If Senate and the Student Body don’t make their 
opinions known, the legislature won’t know the importance 
of this money.
Senate must analyze those national issues which affect 
students. Students seem to care that the drinking age in 
Pennsylvania is 21 and that marijuana is illegal. If these issues 
are relevant, why doesn’t Senate start a campaign? Senate 
should be involved with Affirmative Action. Students of the 
70’s have been termed apathetic and students at Carnegie- 
Mellon were always called apathetic. Senate must find issues 
which concern students for the present and the future.
/ commend Senate for running a drive in support of the 
fight against Multiple Sclerosis. This is the type of action 
which can legitimize Senate in the minds of the students. 
Perhaps, if Senate’s image was better, the drive would be 
more successful than it’s been. Senate has the opportunity to 
influence the Administration, faculty and students. Senate 
must re-think its goals and create a purpose. Students must 
make their demands known to Senate. Debbie Siegel
letters
Editor:
John Mangano’s informative 
and entertaining article on 
“Major Hornbostel’s > Baby” 
(TARTAN 3/11/75) was marred 
by a few errors in attribution of 
the type that unfortunately 
occur when professionals from 
different disciplines work to­
gether. Hornbostel was the con­
sulting architect on the bridges 
mentioned in the article, but 
credit for conception and design 
belongs to the following structur­
al engineers. For the Queensboro 
mid Hell Gate bridges: Gustav 
Lindenthal, who also designed 
the Smithfield Street Bridge and 
an earlier 7th Street Bridge in 
Pittsburgh; and for the Williams­
burg Bridge: Leffert L. Buck.
I thank Professor Robert 
Taylor from the Architecture 
Department for verifying the 
above attributions, and for point­
ing out to me the beautiful 
fresco on the construction of the 
Hell Gate Bridge in the lobby of 
the Fine Arts building directly 
above the main entrance.
Steven J. Fenves
Professor of Civil Engineering
Editor:
Contrary to what some 
rumors would have the public 
believe, I will be a student at 
CMU for the year 1975-1976 
barring, fire, flood or other act 
of God. I am a serious candidate 
for the office of Student Govern­
ment President, and will fulfill 
the duties of that office if elect-
James D. Johnston
Editor:
It seems that I have been in 
this situation before. That being, 
associated with a student organ­
ization which has just been 
continued on page 10
tartan
Editor-in-chief: Debbie Siegel
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: Mark Evan Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor: Greg McKenna
Photography Editor: John Shettel
Sports Editor: Dave Kanner
Features Editor: Kris Mamula
Staff Writers: Steven Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred Freedman, Roger Geddes,
Dave Girdany, Lisa Go»oo»>, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susan N. Klein, Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee, 
John Mangano, Chartes Mitch, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom 
Schwartz, Chip V eager, Lisa Zeidner. Melana Nelson
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy-Biok, Nonie Dempsey, Rachel Feinberg, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier Vivian Kerstein, Ron Lasser
Layout anv t ypesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe 
Jim Vlasic, Mary Kay Groupe
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-April 8, 1975-Page 3
news comment
Sore Threats and Superstars
Fortunately, the enlightened 
modern university administrator 
realizes that students ought to 
have a voice in how the university 
is run.
And more and more students 
are beginning to buy throat loz­
enges.
For example, there was the 
committee formed to search for 
a new dean tor the colleges ol 
Inhumanities and Social Sciences 
(I&SS) at Cranberry-Money Uni­
versity. When Warden Arnold 
Von Weber. Ph.I. (Phase One), 
appointed the committee he in­
cluded one student, as any en­
lightened modern university ad­
ministrator would.
And he specifiecd that under 
no circumstances was she to be 
allowed to vote.
“That’s no big deal." explain­
ed my politically involved I&SS 
friend, J<§m “SAC” Student. 
“One stud** Vote wouldn’t have 
made anp*. *4ference among a 
dozen fac» tes. Besides, the 
committ€*2JM^’t work all that 
formally® • ¦•¦being there, not 
voting, tnft^Jted”
“Right,”/ I «id. “Which is 
what puzzles me. The student 
couldn’t have done any harm 
even if she had cast her ballot for 
Gerald R. Hoover, heaven forbid. 
So why wasn't she allowed to 
vote just out of generosity, mag­
nanimity and general faculty 
noblesse oblige-.’"
“Gerald R. Hoover?' said my 
friend.
Well. I figured that if anyone 
could answer my question, it was 
Warden Von Weber. But when I 
called his office on Monday, the 
secretary said he was in Chicago. 
On Tuesday, she said he was in
Boston. On Wednesday, after 
making sure I didn’t have an af­
firmative action complaint, she 
said he was in Washington and 
wouldn't be back the rest of the 
week.
I called the switchboard to 
make sure the operator hadn't 
given me Henry Kissinger's num­
ber by mistake. Finally. 1 figured 
I'd better give up. because by 
this time the secretary was pro­
nouncing my name more fluently 
than 1 was.
“You've been frozen out,” 
said my l&SS friend. “You'll just 
have to wait 90 days and try 
again.”.
“But this is a matter of suf­
frage.” I protested. “These 
people, these students, have been 
second-class citizens too long. 
They are old enough to fight and 
die for their country: they are 
old enough to vote in presiden-
letters
Editor:
To the owner of a black and 
white dog, vaccinated in Davis, 
California:
Your dog has ruined my fris- 
bee!! This is cruel and unusual 
punishment.
If this dog or any other dog 
does damage to my frisbee, I 
must and will take the drastic 
action called for.
I will deliver the dog to Food 
Service for the high moral pur­
pose of raising the quality of 
Skibo’s food.
Arthur Silverberg
editor:
As a former undergraduate 
and graduate voice major at Car- 
negie-Mellon University. I was 
distressed upon reading the TAR- 
TAN's (February 11, 1975)
article “Music Majors Discontent 
with Department.”
First of all let me state that I 
am not the thirty year old singer 
who went to Germany but a 
twenty-six year old one under 
contract with the Linz, Austria 
Opera Company. I only perform­
ed in Carnegie-Mellon University 
operas while enrolled there as a 
student (A ’70. MFA ’72).
The arguments stated in the 
article were the same complaints 
that I heard as a freshman in 
1966. As I continue to perform 
in opera and witness what is nec­
essary for a production to take 
place, I find it increasingly 
amazing that Rudolph Fellner, 
with the budget, facilities and 
co-operation available at Car­
negie-Mellon University is able to 
stage any operas at all. It is noth-
ing short of a miracle when the 
down beat occurs for a CMU pro­
duction in the Little Theater.
One can recall in recent his­
tory how the CMU Opera De­
partment was denied use of the 
,sti>$>n49irfftSDrH>\&in' balding aiid 
forced to present, pirfrutiiatkTC 
at local: high schools. Td thé dis­
tress «T.'-flll CMU voice students 
a nd Arïîtes, CM U Opera 
Depart<3^|2Z5nust continue to 
work wiLimit its own opera stage 
and proper working and storage 
areas. This certainly lends itself 
neither to the presentation of 
grand opera at CMU nor the 
maintaining of professional qual­
ity in the education of its stu­
dents.
The opera training at CMU (at 
least in my experience) is very 
worthwhile, irrespective of the 
particular opera, whether it be 
new or old, famous or unknown. 
Who is to say how traditional a 
“far out” opera will become 
(One Man Show and The Bald 
Prima Donna). Milton Cross in 
his book The New Milton Cross 
Complete Stories of the Great 
Operas recalls the “violent con­
troversy and even riots” which 
followed the premiere of Alban 
Berg’s Wozzeck only fifty years 
ago. Vocalists must be prepared 
to perform modern works if they 
expect to succeed in a singing 
career.
Opera today is undergoing 
great change and a period of ex­
perimentation. Modern works 
and stagings of older works must 
be successful if opera hopes to 
sustain or expand its dwindling 
interest and support in an in­
creasingly technological society. 
Tradional works are important, 
but if it is not to become a dead 
art form, opera today should not 
be allowed to exist in a “time 
capsule” of the 1600-1800’s.
Since CMU Music Department 
performs only one opera a year, 
while providing student learning 
experiences, it must also achieve 
the highest standard of perform­
ance possible. This lS~'unfor- 
tunately -]P-i hi'^‘J-manv
people eyamaje^fta aityrgfrftect- 
iveness of the department on 
merely one night at the opera. 
Therefore, it must be left to the 
judgement of the Musical Dir­
ector (Professor Fellner) and the 
voice teacher, which students are 
capable of singing each role and 
which role may not be suited or 
even be damaging to the voice of 
a young singer only eighteen to 
twenty-two years of age. While a 
young singer may handle an 
isolated aria very well, he often is 
not ready to sing an entire oper­
atic role. For these reasion, aud­
ition arias must often be learned 
in the private studio.
A singer desiring an operatic 
career should take advantage of 
every moment he has in con­
nection with opera, no matter 
what role or what task he is 
assigned. Experience in all areas 
of opera production, whether 
singing or set building, if viewed 
in the proper perspective will be 
beneficial in the future of a 
young singer.
Once one becomes a profes­
sional singer, people are interest­
ed in the finished product, not 
necessarily what roles he sang in 
college. As I have discovered, the 
Europeans feel that college is 
school and school is where one 
goes to prepare for a career. To a 
large extent, what one gets out 
of this preparation is up to the 
individual.
Thanks to Professor Fellner 
3nd the excellent CMU Opera 
and Voice Department staff. I 
feel that I left CMU well prepar- 
continued on page 10
tial elections, although not for 
Gerald R. Hoover; they are old 
enough to pay S2900 a year so 
their courses can conflict: they 
are even old enough to drink 
most places outside of Penn­
sylvania. So why aren't they old 
enough to vote for the new dean 
of I&SS?”
“Since when are you so hot 
on voting?” asked my friend.
“A president like Gerald R. 
Hoover is enough to restore any­
body’s faith in the popular bal­
lot.”
Well. I finally gave up on that 
and set out to ask a few ques­
tions about how students par­
ticipated in appointing Robert 
Superstar to head the music de­
partment.
As I heard it, you see. the 
music faculty deliberated and de­
liberated and came up with seven 
candidates for the job, one of 
whom was Mr. Superstar. The 
Dean of Fine Arts, Acrid Middle­
man, told them he was very 
pleased but that seven candidates 
were too many.
So the faculty deliberated and
“No. of course not.” I said. “I 
was just saying that the Philadel­
phia group calls itself an orches­
tra, not a symphony.”
“Ah yes,” he said. “It does 
say that right here on the album. 
This particular recording is for 
RCA. by the \fcay. Did you kpow 
that’s the same company Tos- 
cannini recorded for?”
“Speaking of recordings,” I 
said.”l understand some faculty 
and students were worried that 
Mr. Superstar, like Mr. Open- 
hearth before him, might spend a 
lot of time on tour an very little 
at home tending to the depart­
ment. Did you take that into 
consideration?”
“Well now, Mr. Superstar has 
assured me that his only profes­
sional obligation is with the 
Cleveland Orchestra. Do you 
happen to know which company 
they record for, by the way? Is it 
the Deutsche Grammophon, by 
chance?”
“No, I think they still record 
for Columbia. But don’t you 
feel—”
“That’s too bad. Deutsche
deliberated some more and pro- ’V' Grammophon* 'is by'far the most 
duced a list of three candidaT*S5''fc ft^ised the
not including Mr. Superstar.’-'
Then Dean Middleman told 
the faculty that he was very dis­
pleased, because they hadn’t in­
cluded Superstar even though 
everyone knew a survey of the 
students showed he was their 
first choice.
Unfortunately, just as the 
Dean spoke, in walked a student.
“Great!” exclaimed the stu­
dent. “A whole bunch of us were
sitting around last night wonder­
ing if you were going to ask us.
When are you planning to take 
this survey? Can I help out?”
So it was quickly decided to 
take a survey among the stu­
dents. and when all the votes 
were counted, sure enough, the 
students had picked Superstar.
Not as their first choice, to be 
sure, but as one of the alternates.
I was lucky enough to get an . 
interview with Dean Middleman 
who would. 1 was sure, be able to 
clear it all up for me. When I 
walked in, the Dean was admir­
ing a stack of record albums.
“Ah yes,” he said. “I under­
stand you wanted to talk with 
me about how we managed to 
get Mr. Superstar. I must admit, 
it’s one of our proudest accom­
plishments. To think, in this very 
school we’re going to have a man 
who has recorded with the Phila­
delphia Symphony!”
“You mean ‘Orchestra?’ ” I 
gently corrected.
“Of course they’re an orches­
tra!” snapped the Dean. “You 
don’t think we have any respect 
for bands around here, do you?”
Dffjfap; ‘‘Maybtf'he’ll get involved 
with the BostonSymphoriy even­
tually.”
“Perhaps,” I said. “Now I 
know that you have expressed 
support for increasing the depart­
ment’s strength in stage music 
and jazz, and of course a number 
of students are interested in such 
training because the market for 
classical musicians is so saturated 
right now. Could you comment 
on the rumor that Mr. Superstar 
said recently that the ability to 
play jazz is someth:ng you’re 
born with and nobody can teach 
you anything about it, so there 
won’t be any jazz taught here?” 
“Mr. Superstar is a nationally 
famous musician, and I’m sure 
whatever he says is right.”
“Would you agree to offer 
tuition rebates to students who 
are interested in jazz, were born 
with it, and therefore cannot be 
taught anything?”
‘'Rebates?” said the Dean. 
“You want me to act like Gerald 
R. Hoover?”
“One last question, if I may: 
some people have suggested you 
were in such a big hurry to have 
Mr. Superstar approved by fac­
ulty and students because his 
contract was already in the mail 
while they were still deliberating. 
Is that true?”
“Now’ that’s nonsense,” re­
torted the Dean,” and you know 
it. In a matter of this importance 
we always use telegrams. Why, 
mail service just isn’t at all 
reliable ...”
bv h. Coli

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
President Cyert has been re-scheduled.
WRCT is going to give you one last chance 
to air your questions, comments and com­
plaints on Thursday night, April 10, from 7 
to 8. Give the most important man at 
CMU a call, or just sit back and listen to 
the final episode of Meet the Prezz on 
WRCT-FM, 88.3.
The Admissions Office is hosting a campus
open house for all newly admitted students 
and their parents from the Tri-State area.
The Open House will take place on Sun­
day, April 13 from 1 to 4 pm in th$ 
Faculty Lounge and Dining Room. All 
members of the campus community ar$ 
invited to attend in order to provide these 
students with as much information about 
CMU as possible.
Tour guides and current students are 
especially important resources for both the 
students and parents. Any questions should 
be referred to Susan Heath in the 
Admissions Office, Ext. 212.
The third lecture in the B'nai B'rith Hillel-
Jewish University Center's Mideast Series 
will be held on Tuesday, April 15 at 7:30 
pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. The 
renowned Israeli author, Amos Elon, will 
speak on "Israel¡-Palestinian Conflict."
All women graduates of Carnegie-Mellon 
All women graduates of Carnegie-Mellon
are eligible for membership in the 
American Association of University 
Women.
With 1675 branches in the fifty states, 
the District of Columbia and Guam, 
AAUW has over 170,000 members from 
over 1140 American colleges and univer­
sities. Through its program, members are 
able to continue their> intellectual growth, 
to further the advancement of women, and 
to engage in projects of community, state 
and national concern.
CMU's liaison representative is Betty 
Jane Lloyd, Associate Dean, H&SS. She 
will be happy to provide additional infor­
mation about the organization and mem- 
berhip interest cards to any graduating 
senior desiring them. Come to MMCC 107.
The Student International Meditation
Society will present a lecture entitled 
"Transcendental Meditation, the Key to 
Personal Fulfillment," on Wednesday, 
April 9 at 8:00 pm in the Multi-Purpose 
Room of Hunt Library, CMU. For further 
information, call 521-6000.
TONIGHT at 7:30 in the SDC room
"THREE APPROACHES TO PSYCHO­
THERAPY" will be shown. In the film, the 
creators of Rodgerian, Gestalt and Ration­
al-emotive therapies, the three major 
schools, will counsel a client and explain 
their methods. Discussion and refreshments 
follow the movie. Sponsored by Resident 
Life Program and Peer Help.
82-670 Applied Linguistics (Fall semester
1975): Error in the chain of commun­
ication. This course is not TBA. It is sched­
uled for MTTh 12:30-1:20.
82-161 Russian (SPI) to be offered in the
Fall semester 1975: Study Russian at your 
own pace and earn units as you progress. 
No obligatory class attendence. It is a 
course designed for you as an individual 
with special linguistic skills. For further 
information contact R.D. Fougeres, BH 
228B, ext 268.
The Carnegie-Mellon German Film Series
proudly concludes its season with the 
animated film: The Konferenz der Tiere.
This is based on a fable by the famous 
writer Erich Kastner. The soundtrack is in 
German, but there are English subtitles. 
Porter Hall 100, April 10 at4:30 pm.
FORUM-CMU HILLEL STUDENT COUN­
CIL presents the distinguishe Rabbi A.B. 
Shter of the Congregation Shaare Shmayim 
to speak on "Modern Interpretation of the 
Bible." Today in Skibo Room 11 at 7 pm.
On Wednesday, April 9, at 7:30 pm, the
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish Univeristy Center 
and the Department of Theology at 
Duquesne University will co-sponsor a lec­
ture at Duquesne in Room 104, College 
Hall, by Professor S.D. Goitein of the 
Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. 
He will speak on "Judaism Between Islam 
and Christianity."
On Thursday, April 10, at 12:30 pm the
second lecture in the B'nai B'rith Hillel- 
Jewish University Center Mideast Series 
will be held. Prof. Richard Cottam, Dept, 
of Political Science, University of Pitts­
burgh, will speak on "Kissinger's Peace 
Effort." The place is Wherrett Room, 
Skibo.
On Friday, April 11 the B'nai B'rith Hillel-
Jewish University Center will hold its 
Carneigie-Mellon Faculty-Student Sabbath. 
Services are at 6:30 pm in room 39, Skibo. 
Dinner is at 7:15 pm, faculty dining room, 
Skibo, by reservation by calling 621-8875. 
The discussion is at 8:15 pm in the Faculty 
Lounge, jSkigo, led by Prof. Shirley 
Angrist, S.U.P.A. on "Assessing the Effect­
iveness of Urban Services."
A free public seminar on "Health Hazards
Common to the Pittsburgh Environment" 
will be held Thurdsay, April 10 at the 
Central Medical Pavilion at 7:30 pm.
This will be the sixth in the current 
series of twelve such seminars sponsored by 
the non-profit Central Medical Foundation. 
Others are scheduled on successive Thurs­
day nights through May 22. The sessions 
are conducted by medical specialists in the 
various fields. A question and answer 
period is also provided.
Central Medical Pavilion is located 
directly across from the Civic Arena on 
Centre Avenue. Enclosed parking is avail­
able in the adjoining garage.
Thistle General Staff meeting On Wednes­
day April 9 at 4:30 pm in the Thistle 
Office to take a group staff photograph. 
Anyone who is unable to attend should 
phone Kathy 682-8899 or name will not be 
included with staff credits in the yearbook.
Crazy Co-ed Carnival Crawl
This year's Carnival relays promise to be 
more fun than ever. Teams will consist of 
six people—male, female or neuter... the 
relays will take place on Friday, April 18 at 
4:00 pm on the Football field. Prizes will 
be awarded. For info call: Drew Konnerth, 
422-8627; Rich Weiss. 441-5211.
WRCT 88.3—Hear interviews with out­
standing members of the Carnegie-Mellon 
campus and the surrounding community 
on "CMU/Perspective" Thursday at 7:30 
pm with Host Jack Rodney.
Push Someone in the Mud
The annual Spring Carnival Plank Joust will 
be held Saturday, April 19 at 1:30 pm on 
ye olde Kappa Sigma Lawn. New this year 
will be ,a Tug-of-War over ye olde mud 
hole. Prizes will be awarded. For info call: 
Charles Squires, 682-9430; Rich Weiss, 
441-5211.
Saturated Stupidity
The annual Waterballoon Battle and 
Gazortching Contest will be held Friday, 
April 18 at 2:30 pm on the Football field. 
Prizes will be awarded. For info call: Larry 
Denburg, 687-0628; Rich Weiss, 441-5211.
Classified
Want to pay your way through school? Sell
1 policy per week and you'll earn approx­
imately $4000 per year. Reply to 
TARTAN, giving name, phone no. and 
address.
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Squirrel Hill Apartment Summer occupan­
cy: June, July, August. Near Schenley 
Park, transportation, theaters, shopping & 
restaurants. Centrally located, near Forbes 
& Murray. Kitchen, 3 bedrooms, hallway, 
bath and shower. OFF STREET PARK­
ING. A/C available. Call Mike Skoller, 
521-4789. If rip ’answer, set up appoint­
ment, 421-9078.
Squirrel Hill EFFICIENCY APARTMENT,
FALL OCCUPANCY. Available for the fall 
term beginning September 1, 1975. Cen­
trally located. Kitchen, bath and shower, 
bedroom living room combination. Porch, 
parking, all utilities included. Bus stop, 
shopping theaters, restaurants. Call to set 
up an appointment, 421-9078. Mr. 
Perlman.
Tonite—Tootsie Films ... in week number 
two of its Tuesday Nite—Tootsie Nite 
Film Series, proudly presents:
(Hey There)
•"Georgy Girl"
—plus-
*A feature cartoon short featuring i Mr. 
Magoo
—and—
*A special Tootsie Treat 
Come join us for something new ... 
"Tuesday Nite is Tootsie Nite" at CMU. 
5:00, 7:30 and 10:00 in Doherty Hall 
2210.
Summer Sublet with option to lease, avail­
able June 1, 1975; 2 bedroom, fully 
equipped kitchen, wall to wall carpeting, 
air condigined, parking. For information 
call 661-1308.
JOB! I
Part or full time position for individual 
with direct sales ability. Experience making^ 
presentations to people directly ¡n their 
homes. Dynamic Cable TV. 461-2804 
weekdays after 10:30 am. Attractive com­
mission. Car necessary.
Campus representative-Great chance for a
fraternity or sorority to have a continuous 
income with no investment. Call 281-4020 |
Free pregnancy testing Mon-Sat 9-4. por
information call 362-2920.
Sublet May-Sept Huge 1 br. apr. East Lib
-Shadyside area. 3 rooms and bath. Furn­
ished 3rd floor in a nice, quiet neighbor­
hood. You won't find many as nice as thisf 
one. - $140.00/month includes ~util 
441-3657 after 3:00.
Summer sublet-Beautiful Shadyside 2 bed­
room apt. completely furnished, w/w 
carpeting, large living room, kitchen, dining 
area, bath. $175 +electric. Available May- 
Aug. Call Judy, Tawnya. 681-6840.
Lost: A black "Airway" briefcase with a
semester's work inside. The few books and 
notes aren't worth anything to anybody 
but me. Reward for their return; no ques­
tions asked. 682-9290. Dave H.
COUNSELORS, over 20 for unique over­
night boys summer camp in Penna. Able to 
instruct any one of following: water safety, 
boating, water skiing, athletics, golf, 
physics, chemistry, rocketry, tennis, 
riflery, ham radio, photography, arts & 
crafts or archery. Write Camp Director 138 
Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 
19444.
Found-Man's Timex watch, Schenley
Park. Call 624-5977.
Need some extra cash over the summer?
need a place to store my trunk and a few 
boxes from about May 5-Sept. 1. Reason­
able pay. MINDY, 683-2462
Need a practical, inexpensive rug for the
summer or next fall? For sale: a 7 by 10% 
ft. rug, red-violet color and very practical 
for most dormitory rooms. No holes or 
stains. Will part with it for $12 or best 
offer. Call 682-9430 after 8 pm and ask for 
Lester Nathan.
summer ¡neurope
U S GO'.* 
fAi AM r fi ANS A VA
CHARTERS 
l F SS THAN1/2
• :AU fRH 400 3?S 4867 •
GROUP 
LUXURY 
LIVING
AT LOW COST 
SEPT.: FURN. APTS Within a 7 min. 
car ride or a 10 min. bus ride are
2 huge 5 rm. 3 bedroom luxury 
furnished A/C apts. Can accommo­
date 3 people per apt. at $85 each 
or 5 people per apt. at $57 each, 
23% less than Oakland, up to 50% 
less than dorm.
Oakland Apts. Also.
391-2744—682-7292

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—April 8, 1975-Page 5
42 Senate Seats to be FilledMIS Dean Search
by Debbie Siegel
Due to the revisiorrof Student Senate’s 
Constitution, the entire Student Senate 
will be re-eleected on April 9 and 10. Sen­
atorial candidates must run on a ballot 
according to their academic department 
rather than the prior residential basis which 
determined constituencies.
In past elections, only half of the Senate 
seats were vacant. Forty-two seats are open 
and 28 candidates are listed on this ballot. 
Nine incumbent Senators are up for re- 
election.
The breakdown of ..student candidates 
by department include: four presidential 
candidates, 13 senatorial candidates from 
CIT, ten from MIS, three from AMS and 
two from H&SS. No candidates have regis­
tered from Fine Arts, GSIA or SUPA.
Mark Gardner, chairperson of Senate 
Rules Committee and Co-ordinator of 
Elections, said “Everybody that’s running 
pretty much has a seat. For Senate seats, 
there’ll be no battle.” Gardner noted that 
experienced representatives (those who 
have served on Senate for two or three 
years) are not running for re-election.
“I’m putting out one-thousand ballots 
and I hope that many students will vote. I 
expect a lot of write-ins,” said Gardner. —
Beverly Robinson, president of Student 
Government expressed concern for running 
the eleciton on the same days as regis­
tration. Previously, elections were run 
during the second week of March; Senafe~ 
revised the constitution to run the election 
during the second week of April. The 
election was announced two and a half
Among other things,
THE TUCKERS
Have
Used, Rare, & Out-of-Print BOOKS
— For Study or Pleasure - For Owning or Giving 
(Free Search Service, Too!)
2703 MURRAY AVENUE, SQUIRREL HILL
(Around the corner from the Squirrel Hill Theater)
521-0249
(Hours flexible - best call ahead)
WE’RE GEARING UP FOR ANOTHER SEMESTER
TARTAN elections will be held on April 
10th at 8 p.m. in the Wherrett Room
The election will consist of two Parts:
I EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Candidates must have served on the TARTAN staff for 
one complete semester. They must be nominated by a 
current staff member. Election of the new editor will 
take place at this meeting.
II. ASSIGNING EDITORS
Candidates must be full-time CMU students. Tartan ex­
perience is not required. Nominations only will be 
taken at this meeting for : News, Entertainment, Sports 
and Photography Editors. Election will be by majority of 
the current members of the staff and editor seeks to 
manage at a later meeting.
For additional information, call (682-4557 or extension 
656) or visit (Room 50, 52 Skibo)
by John Spalding
The MIS Search Committee has been 
meeting for about five weeks, following the 
resignation of Askel Bothner-By, to find a 
new Dean of MIS. The current members 
are Vice-President Edward Schatz, Chair­
man, and L. Gregg, R. Kay, .SPriedberg,, A. 
Meltzer, R. McCamy, L. Wolfenstein, R. 
Rice, R. Schuleiz and J. Traug. There are 
apparently no student members nor plans 
for any at this time. Also, Schatz will 
appoint a replacement for S. Fennes, head 
of the Civil Enginnering Departmnet, who 
asked to be relieved of this duty, at some 
later time.
According to Schatz, the committee is 
still in the early stages of compiling a list of 
names to be considered. The names of 
suitable candidates come from recommen-
dations by faculty and committee mem­
bers. They are also solicited from the var­
ious members of the departmental visiting 
committees. The search committeeus con­
centrating most of its energy on looking at 
outsiders. Once the list of names is com­
plete, letters are sent out to the people on 
it, asking if they are interested in being 
considered.
According to Schatz, a prospective Dean 
of MIS must have an established scientific 
reputation, among other qualities, and if 
selected, be active in a leadership role to 
encourage qualified faculty to come to 
MIS. He should also generate ideas to get 
the faculty moving in research, Schatz 
commented, because the best research 
often attracts a good deal of outside fund­
ing.
0«v Robinson Photo by Mark Segal
weeks before Spring vacation. The only 
solicitation to attract potential candidates 
has been posters and personal campaigning 
of senators to motivate students to run for 
Senate.
Doug Konopka, candidate for the pres­
idency of Student Government, said, “I’m 
disappointed that more people aren’t run­
ning, espcially in Fine Arts, because they’re 
not putting up any candidates. This reflects 
a total apathy.”
At last Tuesday’s meeting. Senate voted 
down funding appropriations to the 
Unified Fraternal Organization. Some Sen­
ators conjecture that the race for Student 
Government president may result in a 
battle between members of UFO and mem­
bers of Students’ Dorm Council, who 
receive funds from Senate.
WRCT Elects Manager
by Arnie Karr
Rick Galos, a Junior in the Chemistry 
Department, was elected General Manager 
of WRCT-FM. The campus radio station 
held its annual elections on Wednesday, 
April 2. Both Galos and re-elected Staff 
Representative John Craun, also a Junior, 
will hold their offices during the ’75-’76 
school year.
Galos, who joined WRCT as a Freshman 
in 1972, worked as a staff engineer before 
being named Chief Engineer earlier this 
term. Mel Musulin, a Freshman, has already
replaced Galos as Chief Engineer. Dan 
Rosen will stay on as Business Manager, 
giving WRCT one of its most experienced 
Executive Committees in many years.
The station is currently undergoing for­
mat changes instituted by newly appointed 
Program Director, Marius Misiumas (see 
TARTAN, 3/18). WRCT will be unveiling 
its “Goodtime Radio” format on Monday, 
April 7, and hopes to gain some iistener- 
ship during Spring Carnival, when all 
broadcasts will be done from the WRCT 
truck on the Midway.
CARNEGIE-MELLON ESSAY CONTEST 
IS ALIVE AND WELLlThe Carnegie-Mellon Essay Contest is once again 
requesting submission of essays dealing with problems 
related to government. The competition is open to all un­
dergraduates at Carnegie-Mellon. Essays may be submitted 
by individuals or by teams of up to three members.
Topics may include any aspect of local, city, state, 
regional, or national problems. Prize winning essays in% 
previous years have included essays on topics of secondary 
education, unemployment, criminal justice and urban decay. 
Students should be careful to select topics which are not too 
broad to make possible treatment in depth. The essays will 
be judged for quality of analysis, clarity of exposition, and 
(where appropriate) feasibility of implementation. Students 
may seek advice from faculty in defining their topic.
Those desiring to enter the competition should submit 
entries of not more than three hundred words on or before 
Friday, April 25. These entries should outline and describe 
the topic which the student wishes to develop and give some 
indication of the material he or she intends to consult. By 
May 12 the authors of the six most promising entries will be 
invited to submit final entries.
Final entries will be due June 13. The length of a final 
entry may not exceed 5,000 words. The papers should con­
form to good style in matters such as footnoting and 
bibliography. The winners will be announced June 27: first 
prize is $180, second prize $120 and third prize $90. (Should 
no paper meet the minimum standards of the committee, the 
committee reserves the right to award fewer than three 
prizes or no prizes at all.)
This contest is conducted with the support of a fund 
established by Mr. Frederick A. Favill and Mr. George Eller- 
ton (class of 1919, Mechanical Engineering) to encourage in­
terest in civic matters among Carnegie-Tech Students.
Turn in all entries to the Department of Social Relations, 
MMCC 307. Questions should be addressed to Dr. Lewis, 
Department of Social Relations.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-April 8, 1975
Presidential Potentials
1. What functions does the Student Government 
President fulfill and how do you plan to perform 
these functions?
2. There currently is a proposal to replace the 
Student Government with a similar body con­
sisting of an Executive Committee and a Finance 
Committee. What are your views on the two alter­
native governments, and which do you support?
3. What are your qualifications which lead you to 
suspect that you can successful I represent the 
students of Carnegie-Mellon University?
Diane Maddock 
H&SS
1. I think the main function of the President of 
Student Government is to represent the student 
body. The position is a communication link be­
tween the students and the administration. One 
must be able to listen and listen well, to commun­
icate, understand and be concerned. The person 
must be firm yet fair in their convictions, yet 
open to suggestions.
I pl?jn to perform these functions by always
listening to both sides of an issue and presenting 
them to Senate in an objective i way. By making 
the students and administration aware of all the 
happenings the communication gap will be greatly 
diminshed and will draw these two factions closer 
together. This should result in a better-run student 
government with all interests given the proper 
attention.
Z I feel the present set-up of Senate is superior to 
the proposed one. Because the new proposal calls 
for a smaller body of student government and I 
think this would defeat many of the positive as­
pects that Senate has accomplished in recent 
years. With a large boey, more interests and 
sectors of the campus community are represented 
and feedback to and from the students is easier. 
The main negative factor against Senate is that the 
students don't know what is being done. With a
smaller regulating body even less information 
would reach the students.
I think the new way of electing representatives 
from colleges instead of living places should be 
given a chance. Hopefully, this will bring the Sen­
ate closer to academic factors and possibly closer 
to the student population.
3. I am running for President of Student Govern­
ment. My name is Diane Maddock. I'm not sure 
what the exact qualifications for this position are 
but...
I'm a sophomore history major. I'm currently a 
member of Student Senate. I write for the 
TARTAN covering the swimming meets and some­
times Senate meetings. I'm on the Information 
Committee which deals with keeping everyone 
informed of pertinent matters that are happening 
on campus. As President, I would be able to 
continue this effort and also try to make the 
students' voices known and to make them count. 
The students of CMU are viewed as passive by 
many. But by talking to people individually. I've 
found that they are concerned, especially with 
things that affect them directly. If you know me 
already, you know I'm really enthusiastic about 
CMU: the school, the people and its atmosphere.
I know that I am running against guys, so the 
fact that I'm not a guy may be an asset but I'm 
not counting on it. Although I live off campus, I 
am involved with campus life in nr\any aspects. I 
try to attend many sports events; I especiaHy 
enjoy the basketball and hockey games and the 
swimming meets. I am in favor of funding sports 
at CMU, and, if possible, extending more money 
to them. If involvement, enthusiasm and desire 
qualify me for this position, then I guess I'm 
qualified.
1. From Article IV of the present Constitution: 
The official representative of the Student Body 
in all matters shall be the President of the Student 
Government. He shall:
A. Be elected by a plurality vote of the 
student body according to the bylaws.
B. Chair the Executive Council.
C. Appoint a secretary to the Executive 
Council.
D. Have the power to create external com­
mittees.
E. Appoint the chairmen of external 
committees from the day student body 
with the approval of the Senate by a major­
ity vote.
F. Be an ex-officio member of the Student 
Senate and all external and internal 
committees.
G. Have the power to call special meetings 
of the Senate.
H. Report to the student body on the state 
of the campus within tv«nty-one (21) days
L ]k¡*-5
Doug Konopka 
CIT
1. The President of Student Government rep­
resents the students on committees and organ­
izations of which he may be a member. The Pres­
ident should also keep the student body informed 
of opinions of the administration.
I believe it is essential for the President to 
attend affairs such as SDC, UFO, Senate and 
Trustee meetings, along with any other functions 
where he can either learn student opinions or 
express them to interested parties. I plan to keep 
in personal contact with as many students as 
possible and also to make use of the TARTAN, 
WRCT and the mail system,il--------------------------------—---------------------
of spring semester registration.
I. Enforce the laws, regulations and 
decisions of the Student Government.
2. From what I understand, the new constitution 
would replace the present 40-member Senate with 
a 15-member governing body. This would cut out 
a lot of unnecessary red tape and make Student 
Government a hell of a lot more efficient. I do see 
one difficulty with it, however. With the present 
constituency divisions (by college) it is conceiv­
able that members of the commuter council, SDC 
or UFO could gain all 15 seats. When budget time 
rolls around I'm afraid that disproportionate allo­
cations could be made in favor of the controlling 
organization. If the proposed constitution were 
amended to make the voting constituencies as 
they used to be (i.e. UFO, SDC, etc.), this dif­
ficulty could be avoided. If the constitution were 
amended in such a fashion I would give it my 
support.
3. This is a good one. I guess it's the standard type 
of question that you'd ask any candidate. In 
response, I have no special interests (I own no
2. Presently serving on Student Senate are a num­
ber of devoted people who look after the interests 
of the students they represent. Unfortunately 
though. Senate has lost effect during the past few 
years.
A smaller Senate, as currently proposed, may 
be just what the Student Government of CMU 
needs. The proposed Senate could be a tighter, 
more organized body in which the Finance Com­
mittee deals with money matters and the Exec­
utive Committee implements the actions. This 
dual committee will have the advantage of meet­
ing whenever necessary since it is much easier to 
gather 14 people than 40, and will be able to 
promptly deal with business matters.
If the same devoted people of the present 
Senate, and others who share their feelings are 
elected to the proposed Senate, Student Govern­
ment can reach a maximum level of efficiency.
3. This past year while serving on Senate I was 
Chairman of the Information Committee. Current­
ly I am working on the Athletics Survey and I am 
a representative on the Trustees' Committee on 
Student Affairs. I am familiar with the problems 
of living on campus, having resided in Hammer- 
schlag,House and Morewood Gardens. Also, I am a 
member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity.
I have had the pleasure of working with a 
number of people involved in campus organ­
izations, Student Activities and the administration 
and I feel that the experience gained through 
these relationships will help me if elected.
stock in any major corporation). Às to my exper­
ience in student organizations, I am presently a 
member of Senate and last year I was a member of 
the Chemical Engineering SAC.
James B. Miller 
CIT
other colleges would be represented by two to 
three times their proportion.
2. The council could be paralyzed by the 
actions of one or two members. This would result 
from several people walking out to prevent a vote, 
and causing a lack of quorum. This would enable 
people to cause no vote on any measure that they 
didn't like.
3. If (just suppose) that one interest (say com­
muters, or dorm students) managed to get elected 
a majority of one council, and an opposing group 
were elected into the other committee, the result 
would be pure chaos, as neither group would be 
supported by the other. Also, as a result of a 
council comination by one interest, the groups 
involving mostly another interest would be slight­
ed. This could be fatal to organizations that 
depend on continuity tor survival, and very incon­
venient to other groups, as their funding could 
vanish, then reappear, and then vanish again when 
a group that did not favor them came into power. 
CAVEAT EMPTOR.
3. I can claim to be one of the few people on 
either Senate or SDC who present the student 
viewpoint This can be proven by the discussion
on Women's Housing in SDC this year, the 
reaction to the doubling up on the Hill last year 
which Housing was planning to do without 
refunds, the Food Service questionnaire distrib­
uted by Senate last year (which Senate tried to < 
discard and Food Service ignored), and finally 
again in SDC this year, when Dean Williams 
wanted SDC to endorse his idea of eliminating 
"Squatters' Rights."
For the record, I was a Student Senator from 
the Hill for the year '73-'74, and gave up on 
Senate to join SDC for '74-'75. At various times I 
have been publicity chairman for both organ­
izations, since I complained so much about the 
Student's right to know. I was alsotheperson who 
tried to get SDC to pass a complaint about the 
heat shutoff BEFORE THE FACT (the vote was « 
very lopsided against, if indeed there was a vote), i
I feel that, as a senior, soon to be grad student,
I have an excellent background as far as knowing 
who to call, what to complain about, and where, 
and how to go about doing some things without ] 
getting buried in red tape. Oh yes, while we aren't 
on the subject, when was the last time that some­
one asked your opinion—and listened? Vote for 
people who will. -
2. I am opposed to the proposal for replacement 
of Senate ON L Y because I feel that the proposed 
system is easier to misuse than the present one. I 
do not think that the present system is optimum.
My objections are as follows:
James Johnston 
CIT
1. The Student Government President should pro­
vide a link with administrator convey the wishes 
of the student body to the administration, aid in 
planning both University and S.G. actions, and 
report back to students with any decisions that 
may be reached by either. The President should 
bring any major policy changes/additions 
/deletions to the attention of the student body 
(with or without administration help) and should 
attempt to modify any student-related policies 
made by the administration before announcement 
if such policies will adversly affect students. The 
President should also try to explain the reasons 
behind University actions.
1. The smaller councils do not provide for 
proportional representation. The people in CIT 
and MIS would be represented by much less than 
their proportion of the population, while several

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-April 8, 1975-Page 7
Senate Candidates take a Stand
Please limit your statement to 50 words.
Why is there a need for a Student Government 
and what qualifies you to satisfy this need?
George P. Bachner 
CIT
Student Government is not needed. Senate has 
been a bundle of inertia and little has been 
accomplished. To get along with ineffective gov­
ernment is getting along with no government. To 
be useful Senate must be more efficient while 
retaining proper representation. I will support 
moves to get Senate moving.
Aaron B. Clevenson 
MIS
Student Government is vital as an inter­
mediary between Student Body and Admin­
istration, providing an effective means of 
organizing student desires. My qualifications 
include working with both students and admin-
George P. Bachrer, Aaron B. Clevenson and Paul E. Dinardo
istrators, and involvement in student organ­
izations for the past two years (i.e. President—A 
Phi O, Admissions Office, Student Directory 
Editor, Scout Swim).
Paul E. Dinardo 
CIT
In its present form, student government is not 
worth very much. Nobody seems able to give me 
an example of anything they've accomplished.
I know many people from both the commuters
Carnegie-Mel Ion University
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
To: CMU Students (Undergraduate, Graduate)
From: William F. Elliott, Vice Provost
Date: March 2ht 1975
Subject: Registration and Enrollment Procedures for Fall Semester 1975
This spring will introduce a new registration and enrollment procedure to 
the CMU campus. This will be the first of a three - or four-semester process 
which should finally result in a “demand” scheduling procedure. “Demand” 
scheduling should provide an opportunity for students to select courses with­
out regard for a pre-designed time schedule. Desired courses will then be 
scheduled, subject to the availability of teaching resources. By maximizing 
student course requests, we hope to minimize scheduling conflicts.
The activities this spring and next fall will be a significant change from what 
you have experienced in the past. The activity previously referred to as pre- 
registration will now be referred to as registration. That which has been 
cajued registration in the past will now be called enrollment. What does all 
this mean? This spring you will have an opportunity to register for your fall 
1975 courses. In September, unless you desire to make changes to your 
schedule, you will need only to confirm your schedule with the Registrar 
and therefore “enroll” for the first semester 1975-76.
Note: Course schedules will be available March 31 at various locations on 
campus. . . departmental offices, deans’ offices, Baker Hall entrance, 
Warner Hall entrance, Skibo Information Desk.
Registration, April 9-10,1975
Instructions:
1. Obtain from your departmental office a Class Order Form.
2. After discussing your fall course schedule with your advisor, complete 
the Class Order Form.
3. Your advisor will approve your schedule by signing your Class Order 
Form immediately below the last course listed.
4. Obtain from your advisor the necessary number of Student Gass Cards, 
one for each course.
5. Fill out the Student Class Cards.
6. Deliver each Student Class Card to the particular department offering 
the specific course in which you are registering.
7. If you are unable to gain entrance into one (or more) of the desired 
courses, have your advisor approve an alternative choice by again sign­
ing the Class Order Form immediately below the alternative choice 
course.
(Repeat steps 6 and 7 until you have successfully registered for all 
courses.).
8. Shortly after registration, a copy of your fall semester course schedule 
will be sent to you. This will confirm those courses for which you are 
officially registered. Advisor-approved adjustments to this schedule will 
be possible on Enrollment Day, September 2,1975.
All students, including CFA students and graduate students, are strongly 
encouraged to participate in registration. Participation in registration can 
insure your enrollment in particular courses in September. If you delay 
selection of courses until September, desired courses may be closed and 
therefore unavailable.
Mara Feldman 
MIS
A unified Student Government representative 
of the student body is needed at CMU for two 
reasons: a) allocation of Student Activities Fees 
to serve the interests of the greatest possible 
portion of the student body, and b) to create an 
authorized group of students to work with the 
administration in, imporoving the educational 
opportunities at CMU. Since I have served as 
senator for two semesters, I am familiar with 
’ Student Senate and I am willing to contribute my 
knowledge, time and energy toward fulfilling 
these purposes of Student Government.
and the residents and I feel that I could bring a 
fairly representative view of student opinion to 
Senate. Also, once I'm in the Senate, maybe I can 
find out what is wrong with it, and help to correct 
it.
Jerry DiGennaro 
CIT
Student Senate exists* to both advise the 
University on all matters that affect students and 
manage the services provided to the campus com­
munity, i.e. AB events. Film Arts, Hockey Club, 
etc.
I have been or am currently on several Univer­
sity Committees including the Finance Commit­
tee of the Board of Trustees, so I feel I can be a 
good advisor.
My tenure as Midway Chairman in addition to 
responsibilities in other fields have proven me to 
be a capable manager.
I stand ready to do my best to represent the 
MIS constituencies. All I need is your vote. 
Thank you.
Mara Feldman, Larry Kurzweil
Larry Kurzweil 
AMS
This campus is divided into too many groups 
and it is through a Student government that an 
integration can be achieved. My major concern is 
the apathy and hostile aHnude many'of the past 
Senators fcfcn/e expressed towards the Greek sys­
tem. For all that the Greeks have done to build 
this campus socially and academically, they are 
still denied funds and equal recognition.
I have been a Senator this last term and as 
Chairman of the General Campus Committee I 
sponsored and initiated the Spring Carnival 
Multiple Sclerosis Drive, the first campus-wide 
drive in years.
Jerry Di Gennaro
STOP LOOKING
for a good part-time job!!
•Good Pay «New Opportunities 
•Career Training «Regular Promotions 
• Men and Women Eligible
EARN $45 FOR ONE WEEKEND PER MONTH, AND TRAIN FOR 
A REWARDING CAREER IN THE TECHNICAL 
SKILL OF YOUR CHOICE.
GETTING INVOLVED BECAUSE
AMERICA NEEDS US0
I
FOR MORE INFORMATION (No Obligation) CLIP AND MAIL TO: 
ARMY RESERVE OPPORTUNITIES, 4001 WEST DEVON AVE. 
RM. 106. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60646
NAME..AGE.
I ADDRESS.
I 
ICITY.STATE.------------- I
_______ I
" IT PAYS TO GO TO MEETINGS ”
ZIP.PHONE.

---------------------------------------------------

Lynette Lawler 
AMS
Student Government basically defines itself, 
which is simply to govern the students and activ­
ities that may involve the students of CMU. 
Through Student Government each student 
should become aware of University policies and 
activities. As of now this aspect is lacking here at 
CMU. My qualification is simply to help alleviate 
this problem.
Michael Pochan 
CIT
The students pay to go to Carnegie-Mellon. 
The students should have the say as to where the 
money goes. "Government for the students by 
the students” is the best way to put it.
The fact that I care about students running 
their own affairs qualifies me for this position. It 
is a job that cannot be taken lightly.'Elvester Welsh
Part 1Part IIPart III
Tuesday. April 8Thursday, April 10Tuesday, April 15
7:30 pm12:30 pm7:30 pm
Wherrett Room, SkiboWherrett Room, SkiboWherrett Room, Skibo
Carnegie-Mellon UniversityCarnegie-Mellon UniversityCarnegie-Mellon University
JEWISH AND MOSLEMKISSINGER’S PEACE EFFORT?ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
COEXISTENCE:CONFLICT:
RELIGIOUSLY AND 
CULTURALLY
THE WEST BANK
Amos Elon
S. D. GoiteinRichard CottamAuthor of Between Enemies
Institute of Advanced Studies,Department of Political ScienceForeign Correspondent for Ha’Aretz
Princeton UniversityUniversity of Pittsburgh
»onsored by C*mpu» Program Planning and Bnat Brith Hitt*.
' - .. ; . ' : ¦ .
Panel of Respondents
Page 8—THE TARTAN—April 8, 1975
Senate hopefulsspeakout
Larry Valery 
CIT
To gain the power Senate should have it should 
concern itself with academic affairs. Social events 
should be considered, but they are not top prior­
ity. It is time for students to have a powerful 
voice in academic policy at CMU, and I will advo­
cate the students’ right to determine that policy.
Michael Pochan
During my present term in Student Senate, I 
have come to realize the many reasons why Stu­
dent Senate has no power. One of these is the 
attitude of many Senators that there is no need to 
concern themselves with academic affairs, only 
with social events.
Ronald J. Prengaman 
CIT
No comment.
Elvester Welch 
MIS
Students make up the majority of the school's 
population, therefore they should be equally rep­
resented in school affairs. It is essential for the 
students to voice their opinions in our school. 
This will lessen the communication difficulties 
among the students and administration. I feel my 
interest in the student's voice being heard along 
past experiences qualifies me for the 
position.•ï|;i i
Ronald J. Prengamon and Larry Valery

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—April 8/ 197b—P.Pag
'Silent Revolution' Hits Pittsburgh Theater
by John Mangano
The most extensive professional theatre 
program undertaken in Pittsburgh was 
announced this week by Ben Shaktman, 
resident director of the new Pittsburgh 
Public Theatre.
With its first season scheduled to open 
j[n September, “the theater is now a fact,” 
says Shaktman. “It has already received 
sufficient initial commitments that we are 
hiring administrative staff and negotiating 
with actors and technicians who will make 
Up the compnay.” Conceived as a year 
round resident theater, the playhouse will 
open a twelve-week season of plays, and 
will conduct a number of continuing pro­
grams of community involvement. The 
'budget for initial development is approx­
imately $360,000, and financial support 
will come from ticket sales, individual con­
tributions and corporate, foundation and 
government grants (the latter already 
amounting to $150,000).
The first season will be presented at the 
new Allegheny Community Theatre on the 
North Side. Selection of plays has not been 
completed, but those under consideration 
range from the works of Shakespeare, 
Moliere, Chekhov, Williams and Wilder, to 
those of such new American dramatists as 
John Guare, Richard Wesley and John 
Ford Noonan.
The flexibility of the playing area will 
allow for new staging possibilities, and 
among Shaktman’s plans is the prospect of 
having a different shape theater space for 
each of the three plays. “The theater itself
Ben Shaktman, Artistic Director
is the best scenic piece we have. It will 
remind audiences of no other playhouse in 
town. The modest seating capacity (250) is 
a pleasant price to pay.”
Ticket prices have not been determined, 
but the theater is committed to scale its 
price below that of the average resident 
theater ticket costs. Cut-rate tickets will be 
available to students, senior citizens and 
special groups.
Shaktman callsthe advent of the regional 
theater “the quite revolution. People 
want the best there is. They want it in their 
own backyards. They will support it.” And 
the artistic director believes that the Pitts­
burgh Public Theater—like all resident 
theaters-has an obligation to serve the 
community in many ways. In addition to
P
f
000
M II.ÌJ1.I5JEJÌ
SlOO
II BO UlllDOn
I5 inS V >
production plans, the theater is also 
initiating a spcial on-the-job training pro­
gram for young adults (“These persons will 
receive modest payments while they are 
working under the tutelage of the profes­
sional personnel, and many will be selected 
from minority groups”), an “Open Stage” 
program that will introduce the process of 
theatrical production to high school stu­
dents, and a community arts program by 
which local performing groups and individ­
uals can share in the resources of The 
Public Theatre. Shaktman reports an 
enthusiastic response to these plans by 
local agencies and institutions. This play­
house “can be described as a small business 
corporation that is an integral part of the 
community, always aiming for contact and 
continuity.”
Among Shaktman’s many theatrical 
achievements is the distinction of being the 
first playwright to receive a Fulbright 
Fellowship. After overseeing a production
of one of his plays at England's Bristol Old 
Vic, he joined the staff of the London 
Royal Court Theatre. He followed this 
with a directing residency at the Berliner 
Ensemble and Paris' Theatre Nationale 
Populaire. He directed the Broadway 
musical A Joyful Noise, as well as the off- 
Broadway productions of Good Day (an 
OBIE winner), The Ship (at the American 
Place Theatre) and Jack Gelber's Square in 
the Eye. on the regional scene, Shaktman 
has directed for the Mark Taper Forum in 
Los Angeles, was co-artistic director of the 
Charles Playhouse in Boston, and staged 
King Lear for the Massachusetts Shake­
speare Festival. His most recent work was 
last fall’s new York production of Arnold 
Wesker’s 77ie Old Ones, which Clive Barnes 
praised as possessing “qualities of warmth 
and insight that are nowadays quite rare.” 
Mr. Shaktman has also directed the Ford 
Foundation’s program for developing play­
wrights.
I '£^A-
Y^V vnt--* r ~r
mm* y ; ;
The Vertical Stage: A possible conception by 
the Pittsburgh Public Theater.
Technical Cut by Senate
continued from page 1
total revenues 9f at least $99,000, an 
amount adequate to cover all allocations.
Groupe pointed out that the projected 
$96,000 revenue from the activities fee is
only a rough estimate by the admin­
istration, he stated “We should have been 
more conservative, basing the budget on 
revenues of about $90,000.
Money for the Technical, $2240
allocated the original budget was cut 
completely. Technical editor Ellen
Schwarzenberg commented that other
sources of funding will be looked for. She 
feels continued publication is important 
because it proveds an “outlet for students 
to write about the technical aspects of 
what’s happening at CMU.”
By its own request $1500 was cut from 
the TARTAN’S budget, the money not 
being needed because of equipment 
changes. The Unified Fraternal Organ­
ization had requested an allocation of 
$3360, not in the original budget, and was 
denied themoney. The Programming Fund 
was cut from $6000 to $4000. The entire 
$450 originally earmarked for the Com­
muter Council was eliminated. Other 
smaller reductions were: Hockey Club- 
$200, cheerleaders-$100, chess club-$75 
and karate club-$50.
photo by John Rose
Student Senate increased its own 
allocation by $75 to $3315 and an 
additional $200 was given the Society of 
Automotive Engineers to cover increasing 
insurance costs which they face for their 
activités.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN—April 8,"1975
letters
continued from page 2
denied the right to exist by Stu­
dent Senate. Last year it was 
TGIF, for which I was the cham­
pion of CMlFs hedonism. This 
time, the Carnegie Technical has 
been denied an operating budget 
for 1975-76.
You remember, in the TAR­
TAN just before vacation, the 
article about how Finance Com­
mittee allocated about $10,000 
more than they were supposed to 
allocate. That, for whatever 
reason, was the most irrespon­
sible act to come out of this 
school for a long time. To com­
pound the situation, once they 
found this out, they very arbi­
trarily cut budgets. Some, on a 
percentage basis; some more 
were cut back to past levels. The 
Technical was cut completely.
By doing this they have 
denied a tradition. The Technical 
has been published continuously 
for over fifty years. It is also a 
valuable source of prestige for 
the school. Everyone who works 
on the magazine is proud to be a 
part of it. (Look at the seniors’ 
re umes, it’s on all of them’)
Granted, we on the staff have 
made some mistakes this year. If 
we didn’t we wouldall be heading 
for a career in magazine pro- 
duciton. But you can’t deny the 
right to publish because of them. 
Right now, I am looking into 
ways of cutting back the pro­
duction costs of the magazine 
and into alternative funding of it. 
I will report these findings, if 
any, to Dean Toor and perhaps 
with an increase in campus inter­
est, particularly from within CIT 
and MIS, the Technical will pub­
lish next year. If no alternatives 
are found, then the magazine will 
become a victim of irresponsibil­
ity* W.L. Capps
Assistant Editor, 
Carnegie Technical
continued from page 3
ed for a professional career. 
Hopefully, the many changes, 
both physical and procedural 
which are occurring in the Music 
Department and College of Fine 
Arts, will facilitate the correcting 
of problems which have been 
working against performance of 
opera at CMU for many years. 
This in turn could possibly lead 
to an increased number of pro­
ductions, providing more oppor­
tunities for utilization of the 
younger voices.
Editor:
The Society of Automotive 
Engineers at CMU is a 'Student- 
managed organization. It is cur­
rently running a project program. 
This program is designed to bring 
basic practical automotive tech­
nology to the CMU community. 
This will be accomplished 
through a series of informal lec­
tures given by Mike Semon as 
well as Mr. Richard McMahon of 
Wholesale Speed Equipment and 
representatives of Gulf .Oil Re­
search. The lectures are at the 
basic level, understandable by all. 
Current members are composed 
of architects, design and English 
majors as well as engineers and 
'science majors. This program is 
•'Open to all and is designed to 
teach how to do your own basic 
auto repair work.
For on-hand experience we 
have a ’69 Datsun 510 in our 
garage area in the lower levels of 
Hammerschlag and the City of 
Pittsburgh is donating a ’68 Fiat 
850 in the near future. These 
cars are for the group to rebuild 
and get bkck on the road and 
possibly even enter in amateur 
auto rallies.
This is an excellent oppor­
tunity to learn all he or she
wants to know about cars. Our 
next meeting is April 9, 1975 at 
7:30 pm in Scaife Hall Audit­
orium. At that time we will dis­
cuss future guest speakers such as 
Mr. John Emiley of Firestone 
Tire Company, who was warmly 
welcomed early in the semester; 
our Spring Carnival plans, 
election of new officers and 
year’s activities. Everyone is 
more than welcome to attend and 
membership is open to all. For 
further information feel free to 
contact Alan Kravetz at 
422-9570 or Mike Semon at 
682-9290.
Alan Kravetz
Jean Bradel Berlin Editor:
I was walking back to my 
apartment after working in the 
library on some articles for the 
TARTAN on “Women: Close-up 
’75.” Although I did not discover 
any black snakes sliding along 
the wet, mirror sidewalk or hang­
ing suspiciously from a skeleton 
tree, I did bump into the TAR­
TAN News Editor. He had come 
to visit me to explain that he 
could accept only six typed 
pages of copy, three pages of the 
TARTAN.
Three pages?
Why? Two years ago a one- 
day program on women was 
given three pages. Why, when a 
larger and more comprehensive 
program is planned on the CMU 
campus, does the TARTAN only 
devote three pages to the event?
The arguments they explained 
to me were these:
1. Women speak about prob­
lems by isolating females and 
their problems from the rest of 
humanity. They should really 
speak in a “Universal” sense if 
they expect other people to 
listen to them (or expect the 
TARTAN to print articles).
I disagree. As with any op­
pressed group, a distance from 
the oppressors is necessary in
order to get a clear picture and a 
perspective of the injustices that 
occur. In addition, the oppressed 
group must have some type of 
unity in order to exert some type 
of effective pressure.
2. Attendance at the programs 
was very poor, an indication that 
the campus is not interested in 
information about Women’s
Week. Since there is no interest 
on campus, The TARTAN
should not devote a substantial 
amount of space to “Women: 
Close-up ’75.”
I disagree. Because people 
could not attend the various 
events does not necessarily mean 
that they are not interested.
Since when (if you want to 
assume that the information on 
Women’s Week was not interest­
ing, too specialized), is every 
article in the TARTAN of gen­
eral interest to the campus com­
munity? I noticed the TARTAN 
(March 18, 1975) devoted two 
pages to ROTC, with more to 
come in the next issue. Is ROTC 
of general interest? Is “efficiency 
in killing” and “strict obedience” 
of general interest to the cam­
pus?
3. We cannot give the *
Women’s Week more space than 
we gave Black Week.
I disagree. “Women: Close-up 
’75” had more lectures, films, 
workshops and thus, by sheer 
volume of programming, should 
be given more space. The
TARTAN’s “fairness equation” w 
also implies that these two
“causes” are isolated from each 
other. “Women: Close-up ’75” 
includes all women, men, child­
ren; it is Universal.
The TARTAN can print 
articles that compare the female 
population at CMU to “dog
pounds” and describe a female 
employee at CMU as “some old 
bitch.” The TARTAN can print 
articles on the male-oriented 
ROTC program. In fact, devote 
space in two issues to ROTC.
But the TARTAN will not
print articles about “Equality, 
Deveolpment, Peace,” the three 
themes of 1975 International 
Women’s Year.
So, when I opened the 
3/18/75 edition of the TAR­
TAN, one page instead of three 
was devoted to “Women: Close- 
up ’75.”
In addition to this disappoint­
ment, I noticed Debbie Siegel 
wrote an introduction without 
even attending any of the pro­
grams. I think an individual fam­
iliar with the present state of the 
women’s movement would 
realize that things have progress­
ed beyone “pink and blue lace,” 
beyond physical differences be­
tween men and women (“frontal 
approach”). An individual fam­
iliar with the complex problems 
that exist in this society about 
men, women, “role playing” 
would realize that the problem 
goes much deeper than a “social­
ization process.” An individual 
familar with “Women: Close-up 
’75” would realize that the pro­
gram was more than “an oppor­
tunity for women to gain infor­
mation and insight into women’s 
issues and problems that affect 
women.”
I also noticed that quotes 
from Wilma Scott Heide and an 
“Angry lady quoted from New 
York Times” were inserted into 
the article I wrote. Where did 
these come from and how did 
they relate to “Women: Close-up 
’75?” I would expect that there 
are a lot of angry women that 
can be quoted from the NYT; 
what relevency does such a re­
mote quote have to the CMU 
campus, the 1975 program on 
women? (Wilma Scott Heide was 
misquoted; it should have read 
“Sexism is a social disease; fem- 
ininism-humanism is the cure.”) 
I find the attitude of the 
TARTAN disappointing.
Susanne Breisch
at the Heinz Hall Box Office. Gimbels, Horne s, Kaufmann s, 
Sears and all National Record Marts.
10% discount to students with 
ID cards at the Heinz Hall Box Office only
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL
COLOR COPIES
Now available at Copy Cat®
Same day service at new location in FOUR GATEWAY CENTER, or 48 hour service at 
Copy Cat- in WEBSTER HALL. Special For Students & Facultyl
XEROX COPY PRICES:
I - 5 - 6C/copy
6 -10 - 3</copy
II -IS- 2t/copy 
16 - Up -1 Vi C/copy
1OO copies cost $ 1.83 
(OF SAME ORIGINAL)
Ask for a quote on 
large volume jobs.
Expert Typing Available on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
* A 25% discount is available 
on copies in 1-5 range if you 
leave work for 48 hours.
OFFSET PRINTING PRICES:
100 Copies $3.50 
Each additional 100 - 90<
1000 Copies - $11.60 
Each additional 100 - 80C
2000 Copies $19.60
Above 5000 each additional 
100 Copies-70C
BOOK BINDING PRICES: 
Paper Cover - 85 C 
Composition Cover - $1.50 
Hard Cover - $4.00
COPY CAT
EXPERT TYPING
All done on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
Quick Copy Center
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
683-8040 
FOUR GATEWAY CENTER 
263-2377
MUST PRESENT OFFICIAL I.D. 
CARD TO RECEIVE STUDENT 
AND FACULTY DISCOUNT.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TÄRTAN-April 8, 1975-Page 11
Women Writers Confer in "Historical" Meeting
I by Claire Lee
jf you were lunching in the Skibo 
cafeteria on Saturday (March 15) and 
heard many tables-full of ladies spouting 
Spanish at incredible speeds, you were 
probably listening to some of the leading 
¡vomen writers of the western world, 
ground 30 distinguished novelists, poets, 
dramatists and critics attended the two-day 
(March 15-16) “Conference On Women 
Writers from Latin America” which was 
sponsored by the CMU Latin American 
literary Review.
The conference opened with welcoming 
remarks from CMU Provost Mr. Arnold 
Weber and with opening comments from 
the Coordinators, Prof. Yvette Mille* 
(Chief Editor of the Latin American 
Literary Review) and Prof. Jose L. Varela- 
Ibarra (CMU Foreign Language Dept.), 
hiring the two tightly-scheduled days, the 
speakers traced the history of women 
writers in Latin America, discussed the 
ratio of male to female writers in anthol­
ogies, examined the current feminine liber­
ation movements, and revealed the points 
jf view of many excellent female writers ¦ 
throughout history who are still unrecog­
nized. in short, this conference has 
evealed the women’s status in two aspects: 
n literature and in society.
On Sunday afternoon, the women 
vriters met for a final panel discussion 
ill the subjects examined during the con- 
erence. All the papers presented, they 
igreed, showed that so much famale talent 
ixisted in the world, and yet only very few 
vomen writers have received their deserved 
ecognition. This conference itself was of 
‘historical and transcendental dimensions” 
or some of the writers had researched and 
liscovered that this meeting was the first 
>f its kind in the U.S. Never before in this
country had so many prominent and tal­
ented women writers come together to dis­
cuss their own state in today’s world.
Enthusiastic over this “first” and 
spurred onwards by the fact that this is 
International Women’s Year, the writers 
were determined to take one more step. 
Discussing the women’s status was fine, but 
not satisfying; it was time for action. With 
this, they proposed and approved the fund­
ing of an institute, “The Center of Studies 
of Inter-American Writers.” Its purpose is 
to bring forth the female values and to 
make women writers known. The writers 
established a commission of six, one of 
which is Professor Miller, to befin working 
on the basic organization of the Center. Its 
first meeting will be held next year in Cal­
ifornia; it is there that many of the details 
will have to be worked out. A resolution 
was passed that stated when formally
established, the Center will designate a 
group to make an official study of the 
condition of women on the American con­
tinents and to then file a report in the 
Latin American Literary Review which will 
henceforth serve as the “voice” of the Cen­
ter. They also resolfed that the Center will 
initiate studies of women writers in search 
of some which might be eligible for the 
Nobel and Peace Prizes. The Center will 
also have book centers where works and 
bibliographies of female writers can be 
acquired.
Professor Miller has expressed a “deep 
sense of satisfaction” concerning the con­
ference and feels that “all the work and 
anguish has been rewarded” especially 
because of the Center’s formation. She also 
feels that the effort of all involved has been 
appreciated by the attendance of so many 
prominent writers and critics—the papers
Concetta Greenfield, Frank Toker and Carl Hammer are three of the 
faculty members from five departments who will be involved in "The 
Medieval Semester", a course offered to students for next fall. The 
result of a $10,000 Carnegie Corporation Grant awarded to Ms. Green­
field and Peggy Knapp, both of the English Department. Students who 
enroll in the course will study the manners and modes of the period, 
not only by reading, but also by re-living the life styles and taking on 
roles. The medie ai society will be studied in terms of its philosophies, 
literature, costuming and food. The Medieval Program will be followed 
in the spring of '76 by "The Modern Semester", hi^ilighting the 
1920's. Students may now register for the first part of this unique 
program.
(those presented at the conference) of 
which will be published in a separate vol­
ume. That will be Dr. Miller’s next project.
The conference*has ended, but all those 
involved came from the encounter with a 
satisfying sense that it did not die on 
March 16; it had created the “Center.” 
Being its first members, the writers are 
embarking, along with many others in this 
world, on a turbulent crusade to make the 
woman rightfully equal to man in society 
and deservingly recognized in the world of 
literature.
Emergency
Lines
continued from page 1
Plans for the phones were first form­
ulated about a month after Corletti became 
Security director. The original idea was 
brought up at an SDC meeting Corletti 
attended. “The students felt it was neces­
sary.”
One student commented, “I think it’s a 
great idea, but they should have done it 
about five years ago.”
A complete list of phone locations 
follows:
1. The southwest comer of E tower, 
facing parking area 8.
2. Parking area 5, between Doherty 
house and the IM field.
3. The main entrance of SkibOi
4. The walkway between the Tennis 
courts and Margaret Morrison.
5. The rear of Donner Hall.
6. Hammerschlag House, mounted on a 
concrete support column at the front un­
loading area.
7. Parking area 3, between Margaret 
Morrison St. and the IM field.
8. The College of Fine Arts, mounted 
on the corner neaiest the Library.
9. The Gymnasium, an interior phone 
located near the main entrance doors.
10. The Fraternity Mall area, mounted
in the center of the Mall. *
summer
¡neurope
65 DAY A0VANCE PAYMENT REQUIRED 
U.S. GOVT. APPROVED 
TWA PAN AM TMNSAVIA
707 707 707
CHARTERS LESS THAN
MECONOMY FARE
uni-travel charters 
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-325-4*67 •
Over 200 titles
si/$125 EACH
ii:
WALDENBOOKS 
Alleghany Shopping Cantar 
Pittsburgh
get a fun job 
this summer 
working 
with me at
Kefiflywood
The coaster capital of the world”
West Mifflin Pa.. 1S122
Interviewing 
at the Park Office 
Begins March 22 
Mon. thru Fri. 
3:30 to 6 PM 
Saturdays 
9 AM to 2 PM
"KennyKangaroo"
No Applications 
by mail or 
phone
Bakae Ton LATE
UNDERSTAND NOVELS, PLAYS 
AND POEMS-FASTER-WITH 
CLIFF S NOTES.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN—April 8, 1975
131250. FRESH VEGETABLES AND 
HERBS FROM YOUR GARDEN. By P.
Thrower. An all inclusive guide to growing 
fresh vegetables in your own garden,incl. 
planning, techniques, what to grow and 
why, pests, diseases, etc. 9 x 12. Extra 
Value import Only $2.98.
000989. THE ODYSSEY BOOK OF 
AMERICAN WILDFLOWERS. 305 Photos 
by F. Grehan. Text by H.W. Rickett. Every 
one of the 305 flowers is represented in a 
large, full color Photo for easy identifica­
tion, with a descriptive text, growth char­
acteristics, habitat, etc. Contains the most 
stunning photos of flowers produced in 
book form in this country. 8V2 x 11%. Orig. 
Pub. at $12.95. New, complete ed. Only 
$7.98.
145332. THE FULL COLOR FAIRY­
TALE BOOK. Ed. by R.C. Scriven. Num­
erous Full Color I Hus. 20 of the world's 
favorite fairy tales, each beautifully illus., 
with a special surprise—every tale is follow­
ed by simple recipes linked to the charac­
ters in the stories, incl. The Show Queen 
(Orange Sherbet), Ali Baba and the 40 
Thieves (Turkish Fruit), Jack and the Bean­
stalk (Bean Salad), Aladdin and the Won­
derful Lamp (Chinese Pears), more. Special 
Value Only $3.98.
519046. MOTHER GOOSE IN PROSE. By
L. Frank Baum. 12 illus. by Maxfield Par­
rish. Humpty Dumpty, Hickory Dickory 
Dock, Little Miss Muffett and 19 other 
favorite Mother Goose tales charmingly re­
told in story form by the author of The* 
Wizard of Oz. Illus. with delightful Parrish 
drawings, this fun-filled vol., long unavail­
able at any price, is sure to enchant one 
and all. Only $2.98.
50416Z THE TOP: Universal Toy, Endur­
ing Pastime. By D.W. Gould. Over 400 
Illus. and Line Drawings. The first book in 
any language that surveys the contributions 
of the top to man's culture, ind. origins, 
technical aspects, twirlers, gyroscopes, Fris- 
bees, more. Pub. at $7.50. Only $2.9ft.
50349Z HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH CATS, 
DOGS, AND OTHER ANIMALS. By Wal­
ter Chandoha. 292 Photos, 16 in Full 
Color. The top photographer of animals 
gives his personal working methods so that 
anyone can achieve professional results— 
even with the simplest equipment. 7x10. 
Pub. at $7.50. Only $3.98.
119706. A MODERN HERBAL. Ed. by V.
Stevenson. 110 illus., 65 Full Color Photos. 
Here at last in one incredibly beautiful vol. 
is all you need to know about herbs. Finely 
detailed drawings and exceptionally clear 
photos aid in identification plus the history 
of herbs, herbs in the garden, as house 
plants, practical ideas from pot-pourri to 
tussie-mussies and, of course, taste-tingling 
recipes.Extra Value Import Only $4.98.
500868. THE ANNOTATED WIZARD OF
OZ. By M.P. Hearn. Ind. 191 of the origin­
al drawings’by W.W. Denslow, 152 in Full 
or 2 Colors. Fascinating exploration of one 
of the bestselling books of our century, 
with copious notes to the text, original 
Denslow illus., and many photos and 
graphics. Pub. at $15.00. Only $7.98.
14186a 177 FAVORITE POEMS FOR 
CHILDREN. Ed. by P. Horan. Illus. by M. 
Weber. From Shakespeare to Lear, every 
lyric, balland and limerick is a classic, lilus. 
by a prize-winning artist, this is a book 
adults will secretly treasure too. Only 
$1.40.
138859. ENCYCLOPEDIA OF MAGIC
" AND SUPERSTITION. Over 350 illus., 
194 in Full Color. An intensive.enthralling 
and totally frightening encyclopedia of un­
known powers the world over. Beautifully 
illus. with uncensored photos and draw­
ings, you can read and learn about every­
thing from human sacrifices, magic foods, 
exorcism, black magic, charms and potions 
to tarot, Satan, ESP, snake cults, sexual 
rituals and many ideas you never even 
realized existed. Special Value Only $8.98.
15966X. LOST AMERICA: From the 
Atlantic to the Mississippi. Ed. by C. M.
Grieff. 295 Photos and Illus. The America 
that was—a dramatic pictorial record of 
landmark office buildings, homes, stores, 
mills, theaters and tree-lined avenues east 
of the Mississippi which have been destroy­
ed in the name of progress. Orig. Pub. at 
$17.95. New, complete ed. Only $9.98.
159678. LOST AMERICA: From the Mis­
sissippi to the Pacific. Ed. by C.M. Grieff. 
Over 250 Photos and Illus. A dramatic pic­
torial record of the western resorts, homes, 
offices, churches, synagogues, theaters and 
other landmark buildings which have been 
lost forever in the wake of progress. Orig. 
Pub. at $17.95. New, com pi eta ed. Only 
$•.98.
ASSORTED JUVENILES 
50%-75% OFF
140209. THE COMPLETE HOW-TO-FIX 
IT BOOK. By A. Waugh. Nearly 1000 illus. 
Practical and up-to-date information on 
how to keep your home in top shape with 
handy, detailed stey-by-step illus. offering 
guidance on everything, incl. plumbing, 
electrical repair, flooring, cabinets, doors, 
fireplaces, windows, much more. New, 
complete ed. Only $4.98.
119633. ALL COLOR BOOK OF 
KITTENS. By H. Loxton. 108 Full Color 
Photos. Delightful photos of kittens from 
the world over, plus detailed account of 
how to look after, feed, house, amuse and 
love your own. 8% x 11%. Extra Value 
Import Only $3.98.
138905. THE LOVE OF DOGS. 135 Full 
Color Photos. The most beautiful col­
lection of photos of dogs ever assembled 
with a guide to choosing, training, groom­
ing and caring for your dog. The world's 
most famous breeds are incl. Extra Value 
Import Only $5.98.
2982. THE GREAT BOOK OF WINE The
most complete and the most beautiful 
book on wine ever produced. Illustrated in 
Full Color with 44 specially prepared maps 
with wine regions, complete information 
on how to read a wine label (54 of which 
are shown in Color) and how to recognize 
the quality of the wine you buy. A com­
plete encyclopedia, the perfect Gift Book, 
and a must for any wine-lover's library. 
Pub. at $50.00. Only $22.98
505444. THE FAMILY COOKBOOK: 
FRENCH. By A. Kerr. Special Consultant 
James Beard. 107 Illus., 40 in Full Color. 
The best of French cuisine made available 
to everyone: Croissants, Chicken in Wine 
Aspic, Partridge With Artichokes, Napol­
eons, apertifs, wines, glossary, much more. 
8V2 x 9%. Pub. at $9.95. Only $4.98.
50436. THE FAMILY COOKBOOK: 
DESSERT. By C. Adams and D.M. Towns- 
hend. 103 illus., incl. 21 Full Color Plates. 
Fascinating and fantastic desserts around- 
the-world: French Sponge Cake, Rum Nut 
Roll, Cream Puffs and Edairs, Apple 
Crunch, plus chapters on frostings, fruits, 
souffles, glossary, much more. 8% x 9%. 
Pub. at $9.95. Only $4.98.
138816. The American Culinary Society's 
MENU MAKER. By M. Patten. 98 Full 
Color Photos. Over 100 easily prepared, 
delicious and complete menus for all 
occasions that incl. such wonderful recipes 
as Lamb Lyonnaise, Sole Normandie, Ban­
ana and Lemon Cream, Chicken Hot-Pot, 
and more. 9’/a x 13Va. Spedal Value Only 
$6.9ft

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-April 8. 1975-Pan* 13
BOOKSTORE
ALE BEGINS TUESDAY, APRIL 8TH
WC.W'YKTII
THÊ COWJtCTEO
nOUSt»SALU£* AlsO OOUStiS Walter Chi
¿JY FAUi- HO**®***
37690. OPTICAL ART: Theory and Prac- 
lice. By R. Parola. Gloriously illus. l hroughout. The first comprehensive guide 
l:o op art. Colors, shapes and illusions seem 
|:o move and live as the e viewer is pulled 
Into the painting. Copiously illus. with 
I works by Vasarely, Albers, Ellsworth Kelly 
|jnd other mind-blowing artists. Orig. Pub. 
it $14.95. New, complete ed. Only $5.98.
50054X. N.C. WYETH. By D. Allen, C.P. 
Allen, Jr. More than 300 paintings and 
drawings, over 100 in Full Color. Stupen­
dous collection of paintings, murals, draw­
ings, ullustrations—incl. the art, poster, ad­
vertisements, illustrations for books—many 
never before reproduced, by a giant in 
American art. 9x12. Pub. at $29.95. Only 
$14.98.
137593. COLOR AND DESIGN IN MAC­
RAMÈ. By Virginia I. Harvey. 201 Photos, 
37 in Full Color. 108 Line Drawings. The 
book that takes macramè one step further 
with easy-to-follow diagrams which make 
adding color to macramè designs simple, 
clear and concise, incl. handbags, wall 
hangings, screens, belts, bracelets, much 
more. Pub. at $7.95. Only $3.%.
144360. DESIGNS AND HOW TO USE 
THEM. By J. Priolo. Hundreds of illus., 25 
in Full Color. How to develop and execute 
ideas for designs from simple border stripes 
to views of animals and people for use on 
woodwork, ceramics, metals, textiles, 
leather, walls, etc. Orig. Pub. at $6.95. 
New, complete ed. Only $3.98.
FRIENDS OF THE EARTH
Exquisitely produced volumes 
on the beauties of nature.
145200. A SENSE OF PLACE: The Artist and the American
I .and. By A. Guuow. 67 IHus., 60 in Vivid Full Color. Over-sized, 
ntonishingly beautiful vol. of 67 American landscapes from the 
16th century to the present, each accompanied by descriptions of 
vhat moved the artist to select the scene. Swomped in colors and 
orests of the Earth, no careful reader of this eloquent book 
¡hould see art—or nature—in the same way again. Ind. Durand, 
tiers tadt, Homer, Whlllr«d||«, Audubon, Hop par, Richard- 
lon, 60 others. lOVi x 13V«. Pub. at $27.50. Only $10.9*
14316X. THE PRIMAL ALLIANCE: Earth and Ocean By J.
lay and R. Kauffman. 61 stunning Full Color Photos. In on era 
iotorious for its exploitation of land and water, this volume 
jvishly and sensitively explores the yet unspoiled Atlantic shore
nd California's Big Sur. Pub. at $27.50. Only $10.98
143151. EARTH AND THE GREAT WEATHER: Tha Brooks 
Range. By K. Brower. 80 Photos, 68 in Full Color. An unusually 
beautiful volume with breathtaking photographs and gripping text 
contrasting the Eskimo and white mon's approach to dealing with 
the tundra's fragile ecosystem. 10V4 x 1314.
Pub. at $30.00. Only $12.9«
3271. BEN SHAHN. By Bernarda Bryson 
Shahn. 345 illustrations, including 154 in 
Full Color. Ben Shahn's art is universal. 
With vision & skill he captured the essence 
of human sensibilities—the joy and the 
despair, the aspirations and the suffering, 
and above all, the indomitability of man. 
The full range of this master's work is 
amply represented in this beautifully illus­
trated and designed book, which includes a 
comprehensive chronology and selected 
bibliography. 13%" x 14%". Pub. at 
$50.00. Only $29.98.
of the
138956. BUDDHA: Hit life and Teochings IHus. throughout. 
The life-story and teachings of Buddha, ind. stories of the disci­
ples, establishment of the order, the first schism, the great ques­
tions, his parables, more. Handsomely bound in simulated leather, 
stamped in alchemic gold. Special Value Only $2.98
138964. THE KORAN. The remarkable, fascinating revelations 
revealed by Allah to Mohammed, the founder of the Moslem 
religion ond the unifying force behind this incredibly strong and 
widespread religion. Handsomely bound in simulated leather, 
stamped in alchemic gold. Extra Special Value Only $2.98 
138972. THE PHILOSOPHY OF CONFUCMJS. Trons. by J. 
Legge. IHus. throughout. The philosophy of the great Chinese sage 
whose teachings of virtue in personal life and government bene­
fited and still benefit people in many regions, ind. religious, 
historical, social and governmental works. Handsomely bound in 
simulated leather, stamped in alchemic gold.
Extra Spedol Value Only $2.98
146428. MAUI: Tha Last Hawaiian Place. Ed. by K. Brower. 
Intro, by Charles A. Lindbergh. Breathtaking Full Color Photos 
Throughout. A counterpoint of exquisite photos and words por­
traying the beauty ond contrasts of Hana and the wild Ktpahulu 
—Hawaii's last refuge of wilderness. All of its splendor and 
beauty is brought to you—the crater of Haleakala, its desert lava 
slopes extending down 10,000 feet through the unexplored val­
leys filled with lush foliage and multicolored birds, the proud 
people who live there and the serenity of the wild lava coast. 
Pub. at $27.50. Only $12.98
143143. RETURN TO THE ALPS: Friends of Mm Earth. By M.
Knight. Beautiful Full Color Photos throughout. Exceptional photos 
capture the awesome ond towering strength of the Alps as they 
rise in majestic splendor. Selections from Alpine literature have 
been ind. to explore the meaning these towering peaks have held 
for many men and to reinforce the plea this astonishing book sets 
forth. For, with all their power and strength, man's search for 
recreation and advancement has threatened the frogle beauty 
that only careful planning can save. lOVi x 13V*.
Pub. at $27 JO. Only $10.98
145359. 50 OF THE WORLD'S MOST 
BEAUTIFUL PAINTINGS. The priceless 
paintings of 50 of the greatest painters who 
ever lived, gathered from the Louvre, the 
Metropolitan and, all over the world, incl. 
Gainsborough's Blue Boy, Mona Lisa, 
Michelangelo, Klee, Renoir, Winslow 
Homer, etc. Pages easily remove for fram­
ing. 12 x 15. Softbound. Special Only 
$7.98.
163241. THE ARTIST'S EYE. By Dona Z. 
Meilach. 153 illus., 14 in Full Color. Stim­
ulating and exciting approach to art 
appreciation exploring the artist's mind 
and his translation of the world around 
him, incl. Oldenburg, Magritte, Modigliani, 
El Greco, Renoir, Cezanne, many more. 8% 
x 111/4. Pub. at $7.95.0nly $2.98.
149494. VARIETIES OF VISUAL EX­
PERIENCE: Art as Image and Idea. By
E.B. Feldman. 1152 illus., 125 Full Color 
Plates. Gigantic vol. filled with matchless 
illus. and comprehensive text on the mean­
ing and purpose of art. Major art forms, 
incl. painting, sculpture, architecture and 
cinema are explained through historical 
comparisons and the examination of key 
works by the pivotal artists of our time. 
Also incl. are aspects of industrial design- 
advertising, packaging and TV—which 
touch us daily. 9 x 11%. Pub. at $25.00. 
Only $14.98.
102080. MICHELANGELO THE PAINT­
ER. By V. Mariani. 121 illus. incl. 108 
gorgeous Full Color plates. Published under 
the auspices of the Italian National Com­
mittee to Honor Michelangelo, this mag­
nificent volume contains all of Michel­
angelo's art, from the designs, sketches and 
paintings to the great frescoes of the Sis- 
tine Chapel. Delux binding of green cloth 
with simulated gold lettering. 10% x 1414. 
21/2 thick. Pub. at $75.00. Only $22.95.
3139. GEORGES BRAQUE. Text by 
Pierre Descargues & Francis Ponge with an 
appreciation by Andre Malraux. 135 plates 
including 96 in Full Color. This handsome 
volume pays tribute to the genius of 
Geroges Braque. Paintings, drawings, sculp­
tures, frescoes, collages, graphic works, 
stained-glass windows—all conceived and 
executed with the elegance which char­
acterizes the style of Braque—reproduced 
with infinite care. Large 11%'' x 12'' for­
mat. Pub. at $45.00. Only $29.98.
i
517116. ALCHEMY: Tha Secret Art ly S. De Rola. 193 
Mus. 33 in Ful Color. More than turning boM metals into gold, 
alchemy is a system of cosmic symboSsm that can best be 
understood as a means of achieving oneness with the universe. 
Within a sealed vessel the alchemist creates a model of the
40% OFF ALL MAXFIELD 
PARRISH AND PRE-RAPHAELITE POSTERS
symboized by Male and Female. BVi ¦ 11.
$padal Oaty $5.98
517108. TANTRA: THE INDIAN CULT OF ECSTASY. 8y P.
Dawson 190 Mut, 32 in Ful Color. Evolved through hundreds of 
generations, Tantra conveys essential patterns a# symbole expres­
sion and cosmic «exuatty, ind. rituals at yoga, meditations and 
intercourse. 8W x 11. Spadai Oaty $5.98
517094. TAO: Tha Bastoni Philosophy of Thao and
Chante »y P. Rawson and L legexa. 193 Mus^ 33 in Ful 
Calar. Chinese mystical phlosophy that teaches conformity to the 
Too by unassertive action and «implcity, often by magical means. 
8* « 11. Spadai Only $5.98 .

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN—April 8,1975
the *MCAT*Review Seminar
•—*---—>- ^rnI®nSrVC WMKOfKI
Preparation for tha May 3rd MCAT Taught by 
Practicing
The instructing Physician otters the 
prospective rnedcel student s thorough 
analysis of the MCAT as we* as an 
evaluation ot tha candidate s strengths 
and (weaknesses Each section of the 
Teat is extensively simulated and care­
fully reviewed.
Complete tuition, including materials, is $M.M
State Collage— Apr* S A 6 
12 ft 13 
April 19* 20
Cad cell act
814-435-6521or wtftm:MCAT Wevtei Center, >3 Ore mercy Park South Ne« Tort. M.Y. 10003
Disc-iplined Austerity: Living for Lord Krishna
by Roberta Richardson
HARE KRISHNA, HARE KRISHNA 
KRISHNA KRISHNA,^iARE HARE 
HARE RAMA* HARE RAMA, 
RAMA RAMA, HARE HARE
They chant on the street, at the county 
fair, the latest rock concert. Austere young 
men and women draped in thin robes 
approach. They smile and walk fast, trying 
to catch your attention before you get 
away. “Have you seen our magazine, ‘Back 
to Godhead,’ or perhaps you would like to 
come to our temple to share a meal? No, 
then maybe you would like to buy incense 
made- by our people?”
Up and down the street, sometimes one 
devotee, at times the whole temple; chant­
ing the mantra, dancing, beating the drums 
and smiling, always smiling. Orange robes 
fly in the breeze, hairlocks twirl with the 
movements of the dancing heads; sandals 
flap to the rhythm of the dance; and 
smiles flash.
These are the devotees of the Lord 
Krishna, followers of the spiritual master, 
His Divine Grace A.C. Bhaktibedanta 
Swami Prabhupada (founder-acarya of the 
International Society for Krishna Con­
sciousness). They have more than thirty 
temples in the U.S., farms and communal 
properties across the country, a school for 
God-conscious children in Dallas and the 
biggest incense manufacturing firm in the 
nation. The Krishna consciousness came to 
the United States in 1965 when the spir­
itual master, Srila Prabhupada, decided 
that Western materialism, had eroded 
Indian spritual culture. He came to cure it 
at the source and spread the consciousness 
in the West.
One of his temples exists in Pittsburgh, 
surrounded by two major universities. It is 
a little wooden house, painted a bright 
purple and yellow and enlivens the dead 
block it occupies. A sign on the front 
announces the temple, its Pennsylvania jur­
isdiction and founder’s name. Entering, a 
devotee will ask that you take off your 
shoes, because “you never never know 
what you have walked through on the 
streets; sputum and spool, dog hair—many 
bad things.”
The house is old, painted in bright 
colors, looking messy as only a communal 
house with twenty members can. I am free 
to wander throughout the house, visitors 
are common, especially at lunchtime.
A thin young man sits in a modified 
lotus position on the floor talking to a
young man and woman who eat as he talks. 
The woman, blue jeaned and overweigh+ 
eats very fast and says nothing. The young 
man pushes through his bean sprouts and 
asks a few non-committal questions as he 
finished his meal. I can’t help thinking of 
the Salvation Army and hungry derelicts 
forced to endure the pious preachings in 
order to eat. Maybe an exaggeration, but 
the captive audience principle is there.
Our devotee, Cahur dasa (dasa means 
servant), is nervous, his eyes are dark and 
downcast. He picks at the white tile floor 
and shifts his body many times. He looks 
lost in the room, painted a bright pink with 
white and gold woodwork, large plants in 
the comers, pictures of Krishna and his 
followers on the wall in almost Day-Glo 
intensity colors. He sits in front of the only 
furniture in the room, a bookcase contain­
ing Krishna publicaitons displayed for sale.
“More intelligent people who read our 
books enjoy them. Maybe someone like a 
housewife couldn’t understand them, but 
the more intelligent people can,” Cahur 
dasa tells the young man in the room.
“Oh, that’s not fair to say,” is my 
reaction.
He flusters and tries to appraise me 
again. “Are you a housewife?” he asks.
“Perhaps ... ”1 answer and smile.
My classmates arrive; we have descended 
en masse on the temple to experience an 
“Event.” An extremely artificial situation 
—fifteen synical students facing one 
twenty-one year old devotee. The 
questioning becomes very intense, some­
times hostile. Cahur dasa is not prepared 
for it and reverts into dogma as authority 
which only intensifies the hostility.
We do manage to piece together some 
parts of the Krishna lifestyle. Every morn­
ing the devotees rise at four to take a cold 
shower, at four-thirty they sing and dance 
to the drum and hand organ, by five they 
are chanting Hare Krishna, at six the phil­
osophy class begins, seven they pay 
homage to the spiritual master and at nine 
they eat breakfast, the only meal of the 
day. The rest of the day is devoted to 
occupations such as cleaning, cooking, 
business affairs or proselytizing.
Single . men and women live in the 
main house, married couples stay in 
apartments nearby. Our devotee, a newly 
-wed of six months, tells us that married 
couples are allowed sex once a month for 
the purpose of conceiving God-conscious 
children. After the act, the couple chants 
the mantra for eight hours. Any children 
produced from the union will be raised by 
their parents until the age of five, when 
they will be sent to the Krishna school in 
Dallas.
Krishna devotees follow an austere life 
when judged in American terms. They 
adhere to four basic rules:
1) No illicit sex.
2) No meat eating.
3) No intoxication (includes coffee and 
cigarettes).
4) No gambling.
There are many other rules proscribing 
insincere attitudes while chanting and rules 
governing the selection of a guru or spir­
itual master. (Most of the members of the 
Pittsburgh temple have never seen their 
spiritual master, Srila Prabhaupada, so 
accept his leadership on hearsay and faith.)
The chant, Hare Krishna, was popular­
ized five hundred years ago Lord Caitanya, 
one of Krishna’s manifestations. The chant 
is prescribed by the Veda (holy books) as 
the means, the only means in this age of
Kali-yuga (Quarrel and Hypocrisy) to 
achieve oneness with Krishna. A devotee is 
required to make sixteen rounds on the 
prayer beads, which contains one hundred 
and eight beads. It takes about two hours
to perform; more devout servants will 
chant for longer periods.
This month many American devotees 
will travel to India toemeet the spiritual 
master and celebrate the appearance of 
Lord Caintanya who was bom four hun­
dred, eighty-nine years ago. They will stay 
in the new modem center at Sridhama 
Mayapura, recently completed by the 
International Society for Krishna Con­
sciousness (ISKCON) for the comfort of 
the pilgrims. It looks like the Indian 
equivalent of the Holiday Inn. The mem- 
; bers I asked could not tell me how The 
! pilgrims would get the money for a fligfrt 
to India. One speculated it would come 
from incense sales, another though t some 
might ask their parents for the money.
As I was leaving, one devotee invited me 
back for Sunday dinner and chanting. I 
told him that food was one thing I should 
be more austere about. He promised that 
Krishna food could not harm me, which 
had to be the most appealing of all the 
Krishna blessings. I told him I might be 
back.
HARE KRISHNA.
Aid-Major Changes
continued from page 1
ness, failure to apply and deception will 
result in cuts equivalent to the estimated 
award or loan. Last year, $140,000 had to 
be spent to cover those students who had 
neglected to apply for outside aid. With a 
total undergraduate expenditure in grants 
of $1.2 million, the students will be held 
for a 12% loss.
This summer poses serious problems for 
Financial Aid. Work study is not available. 
With a 40% cut from last year, all the 
money was allocated. The federal govern­
ment is reviewing expected summer earn­
ings. Presently, women are expected to 
earn $100 less than men each summer and
this may be revised. Parental contributions 
are unbiased toward sex.
Next year all campus employment will 
be handled through the University. This is 
being done to comply with federal require­
ments. High.school students and outside 
people will\ no longer be employed, even 
with Food Service. Financial Aid will have 
more work-study funds this year, meaning 
more students will have the chance to 
work. This policy may be catastrophic for 
“working students,” those that previously 
exceeded that amount to meet living ex­
penses will face a definite cut-off point in 
the future.
MANY OF OUR SALESPEOPLE EARN OVER $200°° PER WEEK!
INTERVIEWS HELD DAILY 9-4 PM
GOOD HUMOR ICE CREAM
828 Third Street, Oakmont, Pa. 412-828-2840

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—April 8. 1975-Page 15
Goodbye Yellow Brick Road
by RickCosta
“How can you run when you know?”
-Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, “Ohio” 
“Don’t you know that it’s true, that for me 
and for you, this world is a ghetto?”
- War, “The World Is a Ghetto” 
“You are all a lost generation.”
-Gertrude Stein
A new journalistic genre has arisin: the 
reporting of the views of college students.
It seems the counter-culture is dead, much 
t0 the satisfaction of the Establishment. Of 
course, this flurry of articles tends to have 
a self-generating effect by encouraging still 
more students to discard protest signs for 
pocket calculators.
One such article in Time (September 23, 
1974) stressed two main points about 
today’s students: 1) their chief concerns 
are economic and Philistine; 2) they “are 
far more intent on using their college edu­
cation as a means of entering the American 
system than as preparation for reforming 
it.” A similar article in U.S. News & World 
Report (December 2, 1974), which makes 
a bimonthly ritual of these articles to 
reclieve paranoic fears, states, “The stu­
dents worry about inflation and recession, 
and whether they can pay for their educa­
tion and find jobs.”
That this trend represents a disaster can 
be seen by examining the essence of the 
counter-culture. It sought to replace the 
materialistic, economic value system with a 
more humane, repersonalized one. The 
beneficial results which would flow from 
such a change are sugnificant.
First, American industry would be less 
wasteful. When maximum profit is no 
longer the main goal, the production of 
unwanted goods foisted on the American 
public through advertising would be unnec­
essary. Also, people would spend less of 
their time producing superfluous, inane 
goods and more time enjoying the presence 
of themselves and others.
As a minor corrolary to this shift, the 
frequency of wars would decline. The 
peace movement has evaporated without 
the advent of universal peace. Most wars 
are fought out of economic motivation, 
which would now be defunct. In the code 
of the counter-culture, manipulation would 
be taboo. Moreover, the criteria for judging 
others would radically change. They would 
no longer be judged by the size of their 
wallet, the condition of their complexion 
or the color of their skin. That these goals 
seem like a dream, the Waltons visit 
Haight-Ashbury, to us is merely an indica­
tion of our jadedness.
In view of these results, the obvious 
question is why the Woodstock philosophy 
has been abandoned even in lip service. 
One standard reply is that it represents an 
| Utopian dream. Complete realization of 
I these goals is indeed impossible, but the 
failure of even their partial completion lies 
with the people and not in the goals them­
selves.
The reasons for this failure fall into two 
basic categories. First, the constituency of 
the counter-culture must be considered. 
One group comprising its ranks was the 
true believers, as Eric Hoffer refers to 
them. They adhered so dogmatically to 
their programs that they were ineffectual. 
Their dogmatism was actually selfish, be­
cause they were only interested in maso­
chistically assauging their guilt, not in 
forcing real change.
The other category, much larger than 
the first, was the faddists-parlor hippies. 
The faddist subtly convinced himself that 
he was following the counter-culture credo, 
when he was actually manipulating others 
for his own narcissistic pleasure. Viewing 
the movement as a fad, they were interest­
ed in accruing status, security and public 
scalps and keeping their own ass out of 
Vietnam, not in eliminating bigotry and 
greed.
The second reason for this failure is the 
Establishment reaction. First, the status 
quo elected Nixon and responded with 
violence at Kent State and Washington, 
D.C. This served to scare off the truly 
uncommitted. Second, they failed to pro­
vide a transitional state for the realization 
of these goals. Moreover, American capital­
ism was able to assimilate the faddist ele­
ments of the movement, such as clothes, 
music or gardening. This strategic move 
allows the faddists to enjoy themselves 
while simultaneously believing that they 
are promoting justice by wearing fifteen- 
dollar jeans. Finally the recent inflation 
and recession was planned to stifle the 
counter-culture. Now that affluence has 
apparently ended, the counter-cultupe can 
supposedly no longer claim that the Estab­
lishment’s means of large-scale production 
are no longer necessary.
Another element to be considered is the 
effect of this failure on today’s students,
who can be referred to as the hedonists. As 
the U.S. News & World Report article 
notes, “An important part of the student 
mood of 1974 appears to be a condition 
called malaise.” On the one hand, the hed­
onists are returning to the patterns of the 
Establishment. ROTC ranks are again swell­
ing.
Yet, the present young generation has 
been exposed to the ideals of the counter­
culture at an impressionable age. Thus, 
they turn to a caricature of the counter­
culture as a means for alleviating their guilt 
for selling out, but they don’t approach 
*oo close to the real merchandise so as not 
to endanger their standing in the Establish­
ment hierarchy. They seize upon the self 
-enjoyment aspects of the hippie move­
ment, ones which the Establishment does 
not object strenuously to and can also fin­
ancially exploit. As both articles noted, the 
sexual revolution has been accepted, out of 
the many possible to choose form, by the 
“self-centered generation.” The use of mar­
ijuana has not diminished, although the use 
of hard drugs has.
However, the hedonists really know that 
their acts are mockeries of the Woodstock 
credo even before they perform them. 
Thus, the acts of the hedonists have a 
second, more important purpose. Their 
actual purpose is self-destruction, because 
the hedonists have not really shed their 
inner guilt. Sex, alcohol and drugs are
actually used as u ruments of warton 
annihilation. The lo ^ song of the ct mter- 
culture, You've Got a Friend tv Carole 
King, has been replaced by Foghat’s / Just 
Want to Make Lo'Ve to You. Now the 
paradox of the hedonists becomes appar­
ent. Their acts of enjoyment are actually 
not enjoyable at all: “I can’t get no satis­
faction.”
Elton John, who has replaced Dylan and 
the Beatles as the barometer of the culture, 
captures this phenomenon in his album 
Goodbye Yellow Brick Road. The title 
song tells of an individual who leaves the 
Establishment, “where the dogs of Society 
howl,” and narcissistically retreats to the 
woods. In another song, “Saturday Night’s 
Alright for Fighting,” this mood of disen­
chantment is repeated, but this time with a 
strong note of self-destruction mainly via 
alcohol. In a stroke of genius, Elton John 
begins this double album with a funeral 
dirge.
In the future, youth will no longer react 
this way. There never be another counter­
culture revolution. With the perfection of 
the techniques of behavior modification, 
the behavior of youth will be finely tuned, 
and and they will no longer feel guilty 
about joining the ranks of the Establish­
ment. The real “yellow brick road,” that 
of equality and non-decadent enjoyment, 
that has been lost will be found only in 
isolated spots in history books.
Moldy Slices:
"Let's Spend the Night Together"
by Rick Costa
He inaudibly gave thanks to God and 
credit to himself, directing these breathless 
words at her tender thighs as they rhyth­
mically bobbed their way through space, as 
if the godhead he was addressing was in 
that vicinity. While ostensibly gazing at the 
profundity of the walls they passed, he was 
actually observing the two patterns of 
sharp creases on her jeans that formed and 
flowed alternatively from one thigh to the 
other, his gaze fixed upon the invisible spot 
in the middle where the two birdfootlike 
designs appeared to cross, in a motion as 
regular as the cyclical unwinding of the 
seasons, the fine green stubble of spring 
leading inevitably to the lush bountiful har­
vests of autumn and then back to spring, 
l’hey soon reached his dormitory room and
swept in through the door past the poster 
of Evel Knieval arching over Mount Calvary 
on a minklined Harley-Davidson.
His room had been carefully fitted to 
the proper standards of dishevelment, a 
sock here, a sweatshirt there, to show that 
he lived deliberately. The Intimate Oiary of 
Linda Lovelace with a jock strap for a 
bookmark and his stacks of Sports Illus­
trated were safely secluded away, leaving 
only Tolkien and Vonnegut exposed to 
view. His various cans of deodorant, 
arranged in alphabetical order, were also 
hidden, as was his favorite cologne, 
Scrofum, which gave in writing an uncon­
ditional libidinal license to the wearer. His 
dormmates had conspiratorially lent him 
three dozen wine bottles with wax candles 
stuffed in them and any records that he 
didn’t own, so that he could be accom­
odating, no matter what her musical tastes. 
She picked up a volume splayed open from 
among those scattered about on the desk 
like Gatsbv’s shirts.
“Ooh Kierkegaard.” “Yes, he is excel­
lent. I read him in the deep of night, while 
eating Danish rolls.” She knelt on the floor 
and began fumbling through the pages. He 
knelt on the floor and began fumbling with 
her clothes, the only dread passing through 
his mind that of rejection, but there was 
none. She merely sat calm, but expectant, 
as if waiting for toast to pop up. They 
floated off easily, much too easily consid­
ering the value he had always placed on 
this act. After each garment rustled off, he 
felt like rushing out into the hall, waving 
the now formless fabric like a banner, to 
receive the congratulations and handshakes 
of his dormmates and stealthily returning 
to his room to ritualistically assault what 
was remaining. He stroked her cool skin, 
feeling the tiny hairs invisible to the eye 
but not the touch. His hand slid with a 
swoon down her back, molding itself 
effortlessly to the curves of her body, as if 
it had been made for this, like butter melt­
ing into the folds of warm dinner rolls. He 
reached the concave hollow of her back.
which appeared to him in the timeless disr 
tanceless enfolding closeness to be a petite 
serving of vanilla ice cream with a scoop 
missing, and then with awoop down fur­
ther—a tail! A rat’s tail! He looked down 
and a rat was quietly niblling on her dis­
carded shirt. I’m definitely getting out of 
these lousy dorms next year. Should I tell 
her? Perhaps she will appreciate the 
squalor, like living in a Dostoevskian hovel. 
This is my pet rat Alfonso. He does tricks. 
Want to see him chew out your eye? No, I 
better not tell her. He looked down again, 
but the rat had disappeared.
She began to look through his albums, 
also arranged in alphabetical order. “Do 
you have any Freeport?” “I don’t know.’ 
“You don’t know which records you 
have?” “I don’t bother to learn trivial 
details.” “Oh, then you pick what you 
want.” “No, you pick.” “No, you pick.” 
“No, you pick.” The rat scurried across the 
floor as if to settle the dispute, forcing him 
to make a quick selection and toss it at the 
rodent’s nose. “Damn thing slipped rightcontmutfu on page fu
WANTED
YOU--*
IF YOURE INTO THE EAGLES 
WAYLON JENNINGS. MARSHALL- 
TUCKER BAND. NEW RIDERS. POCO, 
BLUE GRASS MUSIC, ETC.
STEREO 108 - 7PM-1 AM
STARTS MARCH 31ST ON WEEP

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN—April 8, 1975
Slices
continued from page 15
out of my hand.” The tactical move was 
appropriate, causing the rat to retreat 
unseen into the shadows.
Suddenly she rose toward the bed. Such 
an affirmative action made his eyes throb, 
parched his throat, constricted his pan­
creas, so that he almost didn’t notice that 
she was about to plant her creamy hem­
ispheres upon a constellation of rat turds. 
“Wait. That spread is very itchy.” He 
removed the cover and began stalking the 
room hoping to unobtrusively suffocate 
the rat. In the artificial dusklight, he spied 
the glowing eyes in a corner and sprang for 
the kill like a Neanderthal, but the rat 
knew what the human was going to do 
before the human did and hopped safely 
away. She looked on in confusion, 
impatience, and self-destructive apathy as 
he, appearing to her like he was trying to 
catch thin air in the spread, stumbled to 
the floor, the blanket billowing about his 
prostrate form. “I’ll be back. I have to 
wash my hands. Stay lady stay.”
He returned to the room, which was 
now completely dark except for a thin slice 
of moonlight trickling through the win­
dow, which made her dark soft 
glisten. Like the slow inexorable flowing of 
a thick sweet fluid, he reached for her 
body, avocado-green avocado shapes in the 
darkness, but much smoother than an 
avocado could ever hope to be. He began 
tasting her tongue as if it were a wedge of 
garden ripened tomato.
The rat began to squeal, having got its 
tail momentarily caught in the stereo turn­
table, as if signalling the end of the first 
quarter. “What are you, some kind of a 
clown?” “Huh?” “I’ve been with a lot of 
guys, but none ever made noises like that.” 
With feigned languor, he invaded her 
mouth like dental floss and began kissing 
her uneasiness away. Occasionally, the rat 
pranced down his spine. Once, while en 
visioning with anticipation the glorious 
details of unliminited future nights with 
her or others sufficiently like her, he felt 
her writhing under him in delight. “Ooh, 
that tickles.” “What?” He surveyed the 
scene to see what he was doing so he could 
file it away in his repertoire for future 
reference and saw the rat licking her toes 
like they were softly swirled mints. The 
two large sprawled forms, intertwining, 
twisting and hovering and the small one 
lounging nearby resembled a family, a 
statue of a family, huddling against the 
ravages of the outside, of beyond those 
walls.
The rat then leaped to the shelf above 
the bed and knocked the bottle of Scrotum 
from the shelf, causing it to bounce off her 
head. “Scrotum? Guaranteed to enthrall, 
entice and enrapture. Do you use this 
stuff?” “Only for an air freshener.” He 
took the vial from her hands and began 
randomly spraying into the room. Then he 
pivoted and shot point-blank into the face 
of the furry creature, which soon rolled 
over dead. He replaced the bottle with a 
feeling of smug satisfaction and kept her 
waiting no longer.
She awoke first. She collected her 
clothes, which were scattered at various 
places on the floor, and began to put on 
her shirt, when she noticed it seemed to 
have four arm holes. “You chewed my 
shirt! Don’t you ever come near me again! 
What kind of a pervert are you?”
Wë invite 
our researchers to 
ask more questions 
thaiitfieycan answer.
Making your mark in business used to mean 
carving a comfortable niche for yourself and stay­
ing there. Promotion was simply a matter of time, 
provided you could spend 20 years in the process. 
But, today, business depends on technology. Tech­
nology that can’t wait a moment if it’s going to keep 
pace with what’s happening.
That’s why, at Kodak, our basic reliance on sci­
entific research makes the need for creative young 
minds more demanding than ever. We must have 
people with drive and ambition, impatient to put 
what they’ve learned into practice. People who get 
all the freedom and responsibility they can handle, 
and tackle our problems with their ideas.
Which, we’re happy to say, has helped many of 
our scientists yield important discoveries. For 
example:
The woman on the left has devised new and im­
proved photographic materials for specialized sci­
entific applications in fields such as astronomy and 
holography. The young man is an expert on surface 
analysis. His work in photoelectron spectroscopy
helps to identify unknown substances. The woman 
on the right has a dual background in gas chroma­
tography and trace metal analysis, which she’s ap­
plied to analyzing pollution in rivers and streams.
They came up with new problems while solving 
some of our old ones. But they’ve uncovered some 
promising answers, too. As they continue their re­
search, you may read about them again. The oldest 
is just over 30.
Why do we give young men and women so 
much room to test their ideas? Because good ideas 
often lead to better products. Which are good for 
business. And we’re in business to make a profit. 
But in furthering our own business interests, we 
also further society’s interests. Which makes good 
sense.
After all, our business depends on society. So 
we care what happens to it.
Kodak.More than a business.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-April 8, 1975-Page 17
ESLTWJg
THE BITCH
IS BACK I
f!¦ ' • '• Vf -
ty fiMie tanaN e
entertanmen
by Amie Karr
As far as I’m concerned, the marriage of 
Sonny and Cher Bono produced nothing of 
value but “I Got You Babe” and possibly 
their daughter, Chastity* who, unlike her 
parents, is too young to be offensive. I had 
high hopes, though, for the divorce of this 
somewhat friendly but totally untalented 
husband-wife team. I figured that as solo­
ists, both would prove that they had no­
thing new to add to music or television. 
With the myth of Sonny and Cher as 
“wholesome family-oriented entertainment” 
conveniently disposed of by the cancel­
lation of their marital contract, I couldn’t 
see either of them surviving. In a business 
where genius often lies dormant for years, I 
was glad that Sonny and Cher had checked 
out and created a vacancy for more deser­
ving talent. •
I was greatly encouraged by the unqual­
ified failure of ABC’s The Sonny Comedy 
Revue, but had my fears when CBS went 
ahead with plans to unleash Cher on her 
own one-hour variety show. After all, it is 
hard to argue with success and, for some 
reason unknown to this writer, Cher had it. 
Maybe it was her overhauled figure and 
overpriced wardrobe, which had a way of 
sneaking into the pages of Time and New­
sweek. A romance with rock tycoon David 
Geffen, the King Midas of Vinylia, gave her 
a new hipness in a lot of people’s eyes. Her 
involvement in the bizarre Average White 
Band drug caper, in which she reportedly 
kept a second member of *hat group from 
dying, added an “Angel of Mercy” touch 
to her forever inflating image. When CBS 
announced that Bette Midler and Elton 
John would appear on the premiere of 
Oxer, I knew my obituaries had been pre­
mature. There could be no doubt about 
it-The Bitch Was Back.
Cher may very well be a nice person, a 
good mother, an affectionate girlfriend and 
a potential Florence Nightingale, but, after 
all is said and done about her (and too 
much has been already), one must give her 
an objective listen and conclude that she is
to mediocrity what Billie Holiday was to 
the blues—its finest representative. Even if 
she found a cure for cancer, this fact could 
not be changed. She cannot sing and she 
certainly cannot act. Whatsheseems to do 
best is get dressed.
After leaving Sonny (or did Sonny leave 
her), Cher said that he’d given her the 
self-confidence she needed. She fondly 
recalled how she couldn’t even stand on a 
stage without him ten years ago and 
seemed grateful for all he’d done for her. 
So, we can obviously thank Sonny for 
giving her the impression that she was an 
entertainer. When she steps out onto her 
lavish set in one of her sparse star-suits, one 
can see that she does believe in herself. 
This makes you want to believe in her. 
Unfortunately, her dull voice and hopeless 
attempts at comedy prevent this desire 
from being sustained for the full hour.
Cher (Sunday at 7:30) has a larger 
budget and a smaller amount of real talent
than any competing variety show. The 
Sparkle and Glitter of the sets and ward­
robe, created by Robert Kelly and Bob 
Mackie , respectively, often outshine the 
shortcomings of Cher and her mindless 
pool of writers. On this program, one can 
easily see the dangers of CBS’s success. 
With good ratings and lots of money to 
play with, the network can no longer be 
fairly evaluated by most of us. It’s become 
such a home for winners that losers like 
Cher get lost in the shuffle and stay on the 
air. Because M*A *S*H and All In the 
Family make us laugh, and because Kojak 
and Medical Center often keep us in sus­
pense, turkeys like Cher can get away with 
a poor script and a dull star, just as long as 
she has that all-important public eye on 
her. With a new romance with Gregg 
Allman now monopolizing the gossip cir­
cles, it may be some time before people’s 
interest in her starts to fade. Eventually, 
though, the public will either get bored 
with her personal life or turned off when 
her physical plant starts to deteriorate a 
bit.
Then, and only then, Cher will join her 
ex-husband in the obscurity that she has 
worked so hard for, and the strange and 
terrible saga of Sonny and Cher will finally 
come to a long awaited end.
Friends, I don’t care how bad Sundays 
are at CMU. Stay away from Cher.
RUGS
for 
leSS
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12s: $ 15-$ 19-$29-$39
I
Also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x 15s, etc. 
Smaller area rugs in Oriental,
Indian and furry styles
CHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Ave, Bloomfield
(54-C bus lets off at the store)
Op«n daily 10 to 6 p.m.,
Friday to 8 pjn.,
Saturday til 5 p.m.
FOR INFORMATION—DIRECTIONS—621 -1025
PHILLY'S GIFT
y Susan Mayer
The Bolshoi has flawless techniques and 
n international repuration. The New York 
'ity Ballet has Balanchine and a perfect 
‘ocation. What could a twelve-year-old 
jallet company originating from that old 
:ultural joke, Philadelphia, offer to com­
pete with the masters? The Pennsylvania 
Ballet Company has versatility, and that 
.vas enough for an enthusiastic Pittsburgh 
audience March 18 at Heinz Hall.
There was humor, sex and traditional, 
classical ballet—something for everyone. 
The obvious crowd pleaser, “Concerto 
Grosso,” was not saved for last, a mistake 
if the company expected a standing 
ovation. Light classical’ melodies by Handel 
were used by Charles Czarny in a prody of 
sports guaranteed to make even the avid 
ballet-hater chuckle. Pig-tailed dancers 
played jumping jacks, and performed sit- 
ups, and deep knee bends with the grace of 
a football player’s ideal They speed-skated 
in slow motion, boxed, and collapsed in 
exhaustion, without missing a beat. Tight­
rope had Gretchen Warren with an umbrel­
la in her teeth and two male dancers in 
bloomers. Their riotous mime was so well 
done we could almost hear her “uh-oh” 
after every on-purpose near-miss. Their 
smiles weren’t pasted on. When the karate- 
chop play turned into a minuet, the 
dancers seemed to enjoy the fun as much 
as an exstatic audience.
At the other extreme—and equally as 
successful—was “After Eden.” Lawrence 
Rhodes appeared carrying Alba Calzada. 
Their flesh-colored outfits against a black 
backdrop helped to create the effect that 
they were alone. Beginning almost as 
extensions of each other, they soon sep­
arated to create the anger and desperation 
of Adam and Eve after the fall. Every 
placement was timed; every movement
confident. Rhodes was precise and Calzada 
conformed to his intense movements. In 
John Butler’s interpretation, Eve only 
wanted to touch, to hold on to Adam, 
while he anguished alone over their state of 
affairs. Tension mounted, and every muscle 
in Rhodes’ body proved it. There wasn’t a 
sound in the audience during the perform­
ance and a slight pause of awe before the 
applause. So dancing proved to be acting in 
its most difficult, silent form.
In the more traditional “Madrigalesco,” 
white gowns covering multi-colored 
ribbons helped to create the effect of 
Renaissance paintings. The corps was in 
perfect time, but Barbara Sandanato stole 
the show. When the mood of Vivaldi’s 
music changed, so did her dancing. She 
added expression to choreographer Ben­
jamin Harkarvy’s unspecific rendering of 
Renaissance manners and attitudes. 
Although Marcia Darhower was often 
slightly off the beat, the tableaus created 
were successful.
The one mistake of the evening was the 
concluding “Scotch Symphony.” A young, 
exuberant group seemed tired in this very 
typical classical piece. Calzanda didn’t keep 
up with Rhodes, who gets more pirouettes 
into one beat than an amateur balletomane 
can count. Colorful kilts helped raise the 
story from a flowery Swan Lake, but the 
familiar boy meets girl meets entire com­
pany just wasn’t exhilarating.
The men in the corps didn’t take 
chances. They always landed and turned 
together. But no high jumps or quadruple 
¦ pirouettes were attempted. Perhaps they 
were too careful. But who can dispute a 
well executed performance? The com- 
apny’s policy of equality—a “no star” 
system—helps to keep them in good spirits 
and obviou:'v ready to try anything and 
everything all in one evening. Watch out, 
New York City.
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. Craig St. 681-5411
LOWEST PRICES
EOR COPIES
SINGLE COPIES. ...............................5'
MULTIPLE COPIES
1 st Copy......................................... . 4{
2-50 Copies........................................3C
51 or more copies'..............................2C
Call about our large volume rates and delivery ser­
vice - or any special copying needs.
Colating..........................................No Extra Charge
Legal Size........................................No Extra Charge
3 Hole Punched ..............................No Extra Charge
2 Side Copying................................No Extra Charge
ALSO
• OFFSET PRINTING . LOWCOST BOOKBINDING
SOFT COVERS $ .85 and up HARD COVERS $3.50 and up
C
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
FACULTY-STUDENT SABBATH
Friday April 11th - Faculty Dining Room, Skibo
Services - 6:30 p.m. in room 39, Skibo 
Dinner - 7:15 p.m.. Faculty Dining Room, Skibo 
Discussion: 8:15 p.m.. Faculty Dining Room, Skibo 
Led by PROF. SHIRLEY ANGRIST, S.U.P.A. on
Assessing the Effectiveness of Urban Services” 
(Dinner: $3.25 by reservation by April 10, call 621-8875) 
$2.75 With CMU Meal Card

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-April 8, 1975
Alkmena (Thea Moskat) envokes the aid of Queen Leda 
(Laurel Felix) in "Amphitryon", Scotch n Soda's spring musical.
FRIDAY 
APRIL 18,19751
CMU GYM
2 SHOWS
7:30 and 11:00 j
I
PRICE OF ADMISSION \
$5 in advance I
$4 with CMU I.D. j
All tickets $6 Day of Show j
I 
ITickets Available At: j 
Skibo Information DeskJ
Pitt Student Union I 
All National \ 
Record Marts |
I
I
I
SCOTCH'N' SODA PRESENTS 
ORIGINAL MUSICAL
by Larry Foreman
Following a 45-year tradition, Scotch 
‘n’ Soda (CMU1 s musical theater club) will 
present an original musical comedy. 
Amphitryon, adapted from the play by 
Jean Giradoux, will be performed in the 
Skibo Ballroom on April 11-19 (excluding 
Sunday).
Amphitryon is a sophisticated retelling 
of the legendary tale in which Jupiter, 
master of the Gods, falls in love with a 
beautiful mortal woman, Alkmena. Despite 
the prestige involved in romping with a 
god, Alkmena remains faithful to her hus­
band, Amphitryon. The undaunted Jupiter 
disguises himself as the beloved warrior, 
while his son, Mercury, assumes the form 
of a household servant. Between the two of 
them, the womanhood of Ancient Greece 
is laid to waste.
In addition to adapting the book, 
William Turner, of the Drama Department, 
is also handling the direction. The lyrics are 
the work of John Spritz; and Michael 
Simon, a music major, composed the score, 
which has been orchestrated for 28 pieces.
The cast is headed by Thea Moskat as 
Alkmena, Andrew Gillies as Jupiter, and 
Barry Lipsitz as Mercury. Rebecca Roll, 
Dale Amon and Nonie Dempsey are the 
servants, and Thomas Schwartz plays the 
title role. Laurel Felix portrays the legen-
dary Leda, whom Jupiter seduced in J 
form of a swan. The chorus includes J0a 
Davis, Greg Haroian, Claire Lee, Kathy 
McShane, j0hn Mangano, Bess Stone 
house, Daniel Cronin and Helen Dungan 
The play will be performed in 
round, a first for Scotch ‘n’ Soca. Sets 
designed by Calvin Tsao, and costumes are 
by Paula Shubock. Tickets will be on sale 
through this week in the Baker Hall lobby 
and at the door before each performance
SU
iiiiill
sä
Michael Simon, com­
poser of "Amphitryon"

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-April 8. 1975-Page 19
A PERSPECTIVE 
of MIKE KALINA
by Jack Rodney
If student feedback is any indication of 
audience response to a radio program, then 
no one has heard WRCT’s “CMU Perspec­
tive.’’ Until last week, the interviews cover­
ed somewhat amusing topics like the Peace 
Corps or the Army through the eyes of an 
enlisted man. But last week I was pleased 
to interview the rock columnist of the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Mike Kalina.
I’d been familiar with his Wednesday 
morning column for a few years, and I 
didn’t think I was risking my life by 
phoning him at the paper. When I got hold 
of Mr. Kalina, I was surprised to find him 
not only more than willing to appear on 
the show; he also offered to tape at a day’s 
notice.
We share a fascination with the rock 
usiness and began a half-hour discussion 
efore we turned on the microphone. Once 
he tape was rolling, my guest shared some 
emarkable stories about how he was intro- 
uced to a man highly respected by us 
oth-John Lennon. Kalina and his wife 
ere in New York when he noticed that 
ne of the two men approaching them was 
’airy Nillsson. His wife nudged him and 
hispered that the short guy beside him 
was Lennon.
Kalina shattered the myth that a record­
ing artist who reaches the Number One
spot with a single becomes an instant mil­
lionaire. He dealt with the problems facing 
young hopefuls trying to break into the 
music field and rationalized why recording 
artists go on tour.
The half-hour ended long before 
Kalina’s stories were exhausted; we could 
have recorded a completely new tape 
covering different facets of the recording 
business.
And we did. Due to technical difficul­
ties, the show was never recorded. Mr. 
Kalina said that he didn’t mind doing it 
again and we began the second interview.
Did you know that Simon and Gar- 
funkel became millionaires only after the 
release of their last album? Kalina dealt 
with Pittsburgh as a recording town, 
about the legend of Liverpool and the 
Beatles, Carole King and Neil Diamond.
Mike Kalina knows his business is not 
based on music, but rather on money. He 
emphasizes the roles of promotion men 
and program directors and the plight of the 
lyricist.
His stories are on tape for “CMU Per­
spective”—so I won’t mention any specifics 
before you hear Kalina tell them, I just 
wanted you to know that the rock world is 
a lot more than instant money and star­
dom. Before last week I really didn’t 
believe it.
George Faison is free and easy and often 
inspired as a dancer and choreographer. As 
if these things were not enough to occupy 
his time, he also has his own dance com­
pany. The Universal Dance Experience. 
The troupe’s repertoire encompasses many 
styles of dance which leave the audience 
with a memorable experience. George said 
that after leaving the Alvin Ailey Company 
he did not consciously plan to assemble his 
own company, so it’s really a fortunate 
accident that he did. Mr. Faison also 
explained what he wanted to accomplish 
through dance and with his own troupe in 
particular. These ideas include an expres­
sion of emotions, irregardless of race and
culture, through movements which incor­
porate ballet, modem, jazz, etc. Through 
these movements he hopes the audience 
will be able to discern the dancer’s 
emotions. This is the dancer’s goal.
The Universal Dance Experience is 
composed of black dancers with various 
experience-ranging from none to several 
years. The corps, under the direction of 
George Faison, did some of the warm-up 
exercises usually done at their rehearsals or 
training periods. These exercises consisted 
of stretches, tensing and relaxing. After the 
warm-ups, they practiced walks, jetes and 
pirouettes. These movements were chal­
lenges to the dancers since they were 
taught some time ago and were variations 
of standard movements. George was extem­
poraneously throwing out these ideas to be
a ¿pecial eveninq'5 introduction to the world of jazz
featuring JOE HARRIS
• •noted performe. 
and Instructor of Jazz Studies 
Univ. of Pgh
sponsored by Resident Life Programs
*Gary Hitch, a graduate student in drama is 
the director of Bepoar on Horseback, play 
ing now throuÿi Friday niçfit at 8:30 p. 
at the Allegheny Community
Î11__________________________ I
performed and, consequently, they were 
not done well. But at the end it all came 
alive. The music was Otis Redding’s “Try A 
Little Tenderness” and the dancing was 
excellent. Even George performed with the 
troupe. The company worked beautifully 
and smoothly together. Despite the 
crowd’s cry for more, the company grace­
fully abstained, teasing the audience with a 
plug for their actual show Wednesday, 
March 19. If anyone missed the perform­
ance/lecture at Camegie-Mellon or the per­
formance presented at the Playhouse, one 
missed a true cultural delight.
APRIL 9Wednesday
7:00 pmhammer- ¿chlaq lounqe
refreshments

---------------------------------------------------

by Mark Evan Chimsky
Dedicated to Charlie
We live with certain films. They are our 
reference bases, the dramas which our 
imaginations memorize, re-live and attempt 
to understand. John Cassavetes’ A Woman 
Under the Influence has a devastating
our inner darknesses--the fierce mysteries 
we cannot comprehend. We tend to look at 
each other with tunnel vision, ever-ready to 
define and defeat any behavior which up­
sets the established norm or reminds us too 
much of the muted beasts within ourselves.
R.D. Laing suggests that our perception 
of “abnormal” behavior may be more
anity of the film’s characters. His drama is 
physical-more demonstrative than didac­
tic. The Model may be Laingian, but the 
perspective is Cassavetes’ and “A Woman 
Under the Influence” is his masterwork.
Audiences have a hard time knowing 
how to take it all. The film is treated by 
critics in very much the same way the title
John Cassavetes directing Gena Rowlands and Peter Falk in "A Woman Under the Influence'
effect on audiences, posing new threats to 
our old, bedlam-bound standards of 
madness. Next to Ingmar Bergman’s Scenes
From A Marriage, it is perhaps the most 
important film of this decade. Both movies 
bring us terrifyingly closer to ourselves.
Cassavetes approaches a Laingian Model 
of Madness head-on, jolting his audience 
into the awareness of an ideology which 
may, at first, appear alien, out of sync with 
our comfortable conceptions of madness. 
But that is exactly what “A Woman Under 
the Influence” is all about. We understand 
insanity as obliquely as the Victorians 
understood sex. We assign conventions to 
madness, ritualize it, and secure for our­
selves a pattern of ordered human response 
that, by its very routine, allows no room 
for the dissonances and almost childish 
freedom usually granted the mad. It is 
infinitely easier and far more reassuring to 
view unexpected behavior as unacceptable, 
rather than force our tight definitions of 
‘normalcy’ to bend and accomodate what 
may, in fact, be natural expression, essen­
tial to human growth.
Not unlike generations of Greeks, 
Romans, and American Indians, with their 
legends and folk-lore, we have constructed 
a mythology of madness to explain away
imbalanced than the behavior itself. Who is 
mad in a world where madness is imposed 
by the insecurities of others? Witch burn­
ings are out of style, but we are not so 
much more subtle with our looming 
asylums/institutions/state mental homes. 
We harm each other by not first under­
standing ourselves. We are all, in a way, 
dangerously under the influence of a well- 
conditioned society.
Cassavetes risks applying Laing’s 
remarkable theories to an immediate, 
breathing reality. Thankfully, he discards 
Laing’s cloyingly precious, textbook rhet­
oric and concentrates on the intense hum­
character, Mabel Longhetti, is dealt with 
by family and friends, who insist on pin­
ning traditional rules of madness to a game 
that rebels against such intrusive tradition. 
The diverse critical reaction has ultimately 
served to reveal less about “A Woman Un­
der the Influence” and more about the 
preconceived notions of individual review­
ers concerning madness. Even the most 
prestigious clutch at neat, categorical 
‘straws,’ as if they provided cozy defence 
against the rough-edged unconventionality 
of the film. Here’s Hollis Alpert smoothly 
reducing the real issues to soap-opera pulp 
in his review, which appeared as a single-
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
A LECTURE BY
PROFESSOR S. D. GOITEIN
of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton 
on "Judaism Between Islam and Christianity"
On Wednesday, April 9 7:30 p.m.
Duquesne University Room 104, College Hall 
Co-sponsored by Department of Theology, Duquesne 
University and B’nai B’rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
-OPEN TO THE PUBLIC -
-column, boxed feature in 
Saturday Review:
“The subject matter of the film is pain, 
ful to begin with. The wife of a blue-collar 
worker is mentally distrubed and pathet­
ically attempts to cope with the rigors of 
homemaking and the raising of three small 
children in a rather tacky Los Angeles 
neighborhood. When her aberrational beha­
vior results in embarrassment for her loving 
but much tried husband, he, with the aid 
of his mother and a bumbling family doc­
tor, has her committed to a mental insti­
tution. The'treatmestV, isn’t of much help in 
preparing her for a return to her home life, 
and the two are left at the end attempting 
to cope as best they are able with her 
marginal hold on sanity.”
Did we see the same film? To stick 
Mabel Longhetti with the catch-phrase 
“mentally disturbed” is the kind of resp­
onse to be expected from one of Mabel’js 
frightened relatives, who nearly wreck her 
stability by shipping her off for six months 
of sedatives and intensive shock therapy 
Director Cassavetes urges us to realize 
the brutal victimization of Mabel. Her 
behavior veers sharply from the standard 
suburban model, but does that make her 
mad? As a wife and dedicated mother, she 
is at the mercy of those closest to her. 
They chart her course. Nick’s decision to 
commit his wife stems from an embar­
rassed pride that has surprisingly little to 
do with Mabel. He has recently returned 
home, only to find Mabel and a rather prim 
male neighbor surrounded by children in 
the bedroom. Nick, reacting purely on 
impulse, jumps to quick conclusions and 
brusquely throws the neighbor out of the 
house. It is a stupid, humiliating response, 
and rather than come to terms with it, 
Niek transfers his own shame to Mabel, 
flaring desperately at her. Mabel quite 
calmly assures him that yes, he’s made a 
jerk of himself, but everybody makes mis­
takes. She speaks like a kindly nurse, 
hoping to soothe Nick’s fury, striving to 
maintain a comraderie in which there is 
mutual patience and forgiveness. Still, Nick 
continues to rail, demanding that Mabel be 
committed. Mabel is thrust into a defensive 
position with no back-up support. Nick 
rages blindly, cheered on by a mother, 
whose selfish love for her son is motive 
enough to condemn Mabel as crazy. Mabel 
is & domestic scapegoat, abused by the per­
sonal frustrations and failures of others. 
But to claim Mabel as exclusive victim 
continued on paqe 21
VACCATION
FREEPORT, BAHAMAS * >
CHARTER FOR STUDENTS-FACULTY-STAFF 
MAY 11-18 COST $225
MORE INFO 621-3870
Established Pittsburgh 
Film Company seeks 
writers to add comedy 
material and improve a 
completed movie 
script. Can you write 
Woody Allen-Mel 
Brooks type comedy?
Call Mr. Arnold at 
373- 0415.
Page 20-THE TARTAN-April 8, 1975A WOMAN
UNDER THE INFLUENCE:

---------------------------------------------------

THE,TARTAN—April 8-1975-Page 21THE MYTHOLOGY OF MADNESS
continued from page 20
would be near-sighted, a ploy that reeks of 
sexual politics and plays up to the most 
ardent of Feminist arguments. In Cassa­
vetes’ world, there is nothing so black and 
white as hero/victim, victim/victimizer. I 
prefer to think Cassavetes implicates us in 
every role, no matter how conflicting or 
ambivalent the combination.
Nick Longhetti is as much a victim of 
his upbringing and enforced societal values 
as his wife, Mabel. They are caught up in a 
culture that dictates roles and rules, a cul­
ture that pushes a kind of sit-com Amer­
ican Dream Ideal. Nick is at his most 
human when he tries to conform, and 
begins to recognize the sad imperfection of 
his charade. Mabel’s reflexes are attuned to 
the pulse of a private world—her separate 
reality is not madness, but merely the 
route toward a more honest expression of 
self. She dances to the strains of Swan 
Lake in her backyard; she swings a chain- 
radio as if it were a censer, divining herself 
as her own religion. She creates a code of 
gesture and sound which cancels out her 
identity with the quick and indifferent 
world around her—a world that confuses 
even her simplest requests. (When she asks 
her father to stand up for her, he takes it 
literally and rises blankly from his chair.)
The final moments of the film come like 
revelation—Nick and Mabel have stumbled 
with awkward grace through the mechanics 
of their marriage; Mabel returns from the 
mental institution and is greeted by family 
and friends with a condescending, patently 
false display of affection that seems to 
signal her alienation, her freakishness even 
more starkly than before. The loon has 
returned from the nut-house and supposed­
ly she’s cured—let’s have a look and see. 
Before, they begged her to “act normal,” 
but once she arrives home, she is forced 
into a burlesque of madness.
Mabel reacts with a hesitant formality 
that is painfully foreign to her. In the 
film’s most stunning scene, Nick takes 
Mabel upstairs and pleads with her to be 
natural, to “just be herself.” He rehearses 
Mabel in the familiar, swift gestures 
common to her before therapy. But the 
pressure to comply with the group’s stereo­
typed image of a woman with a “marginal 
hold on sanity” is too great. She has 
exhausted all roles in what has come to be 
a benefit performance for everyone but 
herself. The guests leave and Mabel flees to 
the bathroom, intent on slitting her wrists. 
The action is a helpless cry against the 
disappointments and conflicting demands 
of the family she loves. As John Cassavetes 
has said, “Mabel’s not nuts-she’s just 
tired.” She has grown weary of auditioning 
for the right identity, of her actions being 
interpreted to fit already-formulated 
impressions. Nick intervenes and washes
the blood from Mabel’s hand. Alone 
together, the two of them begin putting 
the house in order. When Mabel asks Nick 
if he loves her, he is unable to say the 
words, not because he is inarticulate, but 
rather, because it is much-too-understood a 
thing to be spoken. Their roles have fallen 
away and all that is left for them is to start 
cleaning. There is hope in their new-found 
vulnerability; there is freedom. Their com­
munion is composed quietly, among the 
scattered “ruins” of Mabel’s “Welcome
Home” party. Plates and linen are cleared 
as Nick and Mabel prepare for whatever 
dark comforts the night may bring.
Cassavetes’ style is borderline excessive. 
Whereas Bergman builds momentum thro­
ugh meticulous use of compression, Cassa­
vetes’ camera lingers. Scenes seem rarely to 
have any tightly calculated structure. Yet, 
Cassavetes works beautifully with loose 
ends. The flatly unglamorous, home-movie 
‘feel’ compels us toward the characters. 
Their experience becomes immediate, 
unforced, accessible. It is only when Cassa­
vetes plays with uncharacteristic sight- gags 
(i.e.,Nick shoving Mabel’s mother into bed 
with the rest of the family; Nick arid 
Mabel’s three kids lollying around in 
drunken stupors) that he cheapens his own 
work.)
Cassavetes tracks the tensions of familial 
living with an unyielding eye for rich 
detail-the ephemeral exchange of glances 
that communicate a love, the upraised fist 
of a child, guarding the tender intimacy 
between himself and his mother from a 
father suddenly made rival. A loaded 
naturalism shapes this film and charges it 
with a cumulative power. The over-all
effect is pool-like, with moments of brill­
iance surfacing and flashing with keen-edg­
ed clarity.
It is easy to be thrown off by Gena 
Rowlands’ diligently externalized perform­
ance as Mabel. So much is so apparently 
physicalized, one occasionally loses sight of 
the more subtle ebb and flow of feeling 
that supposedly tempo her responses. She 
works on a multiplicity of levels, yet seems 
to be lacking the sort of resonance neces­
sary to keep the portrayal from appearing
too blunt, too showy, too tour-de-forcey. 
Her Mabel is most affecting when handling 
mderstated action, the small unsensational 
scenes.
Peter Falk’s Nick is a complex, confused 
child-man, whose white-hot anger is balanc­
ed by a brooding guilt. His superbly gruff 
performance is alive with inconsistencies. 
He is never static in one emotional field 
but, like all in Cassavetes’ acting company, 
his character’s emotional range is tempered 
by a private, ever-working past history as 
well as a present reality. Worlds of experi­
ence are reflected in Nick’s behavior. While 
Mabel serves a spaghetti dinner .to her 
husband’s fellow-workers, one becomes 
increasingly aware that Nick’s smiling cour­
tesy is a cover-up, a gentle restraint geared 
to conceal his knowledge of Mabel’s recent 
infidelity. When Mabel innocently tries 
coaxing one of the men to dance, Nick 
shouts her down, venting the full measure 
of his pent-up rage and sorrow. Cassavetes 
turns his characters slowly in the light, 
exposing each facet as a crucial dimension, 
integral to the larger whole.
There are few ’types’ in a Cassavetes 
film. In “A Woman Under the Influence,”
Nick’s shrewish mother, (played by John 
Cassavetes’ own mother,- Katherine), stands 
out because she comes so close to carica­
ture. But, even here, we witness the mother 
extending a kindness to Mabel that is 
non-competitive, ba'feed purely on a desire 
to help. The role is rounded to encompass 
the dichotomies intrinsic to human person­
ality. In such a film, everyone is both 
victim and victimizer; influenced by what 
they cannot control and influencing that
which they do not understand.
Like its witty precursor, Frank Perry’s 
“Diary of a Mad Housewife,” Cassavetes’ 
film is handicapped by a widely misunder­
stood title and a ludicrous promotion cam­
paign that includes such banner quotes as 
Gene Shalit’s “Best Woman’s Picture of the 
Year.” That’s like calling “Butch Cassidy 
and the Sundance Kid” the greatest Weste­
rn ever made. The words read like some 
kind of odd, judicial sentencing, limiting 
the life of the film to the obvious, to the 
easily marketable. It is a patronizing tactic 
that compromises the film’s total worth.
A Woman Under the Influence has to do 
with human frailty. With extraordinary 
vision, Cassavetes focuses on the expecta­
tions and apprehensions of a society that 
fears its own “aberrational” behavior and 
condemns it in others as madness. He 
seems to seek the stripping away of long- 
cultivated social veneers in favor of a more 
basic and humane interaction. His film 
speaks with a passionate urgency, asking us 
to embrace, without tears or a tyranny of 
labels, the fine madnesses which bewilder 
and astonish us all.
Gena Rowlands as Mabel Lo*#wtti

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-THE TART AN-April 8,1975
Pitt Takes Title-Plays Dirty
By Dave Girdany
By defeating CMU, 8-5 in the title 
game on Sunday, March 16, at the Civic 
Arena,' Pitt won the WPIHA championship 
for the second year in a ro#. The Panthers 
outplayed the Tartans and this showed up 
in the shots on goal; for the first time in 
three games this year, Pitt outshot CMU. 
click Vernon played an excellent game for 
he Panthers, as he scored six goals ar 
issisted on the other two. Matt Goldsmiti 
ed the way for the Tartans by scoring fom 
goals.
SCORING SUMMARY First Period 1) Pitt- 
- Vernon (Day) 0:38 2) CMU-Grimm (Cor­
nelius, Eastman) 2:37 3) Pitt-Vernon (Day) 
8:32 Second Period 4) CMU-Goldsmith 
(Grimm) 3:31 5) Pitt-Vemon (Hagins, Bro­
wne) 5:44 6) Pitt-Vemon 9:11 7) Pitl 
Hagins (Vernon, Browne) 13:05 8) Pitt- 
-Vemon (Gideon) 14:41 Third Period 
9)CMU-Goldsmith (Cornelius) 0:17 10) 
Pitt-Browne (Vernon) 7:23 11) Pitt-
Mi»rray Leety (5) flips a backhander at John DeFazio
0
-Vernon (Browne, Hagins) 10:52 12) CMU- 
-Goldsmith 13:06 13) CMU-Golsmith 
(Kenworthy) 14:04
It is a shame that a hockey team with as 
much talent as Pitt, cannot conduct itself 
in a manner befitting the leagurej champ­
ion. In the last few minutes of the* WPIHA 
championship game, with Pitt holding a 
five goal lead, the Panthers resorted to 
their bush tactics, cheaf) shots and all. A 
team on the verge of winning a cham­
pionship only loses by such conduct. Of 
course, this does not include all the mem­
bers of the Pitt team, but the few make it 
look bad for all. While this was happening, 
the Tartans refused to tall to the Panthers’ 
level. The CMU skaters continued to play 
hockey, trying to overcome their deficit. 
This perseverance paid off, as CMU scored 
two gals in thei final minutes to make the 
final margin three goals. Because of this, as 
well as other reasons, I am proud and glad 
that I am associated with a losing CMU 
team rather than a winning Pitt team.
*
sports
CommentaryIn Black
By Dave Kanner
Last Thursday, I walked into the Tartan 
office and was informed that we had re­
ceived the following letter:- ; ' f
Editor:
I would like to comment on th$ subject 
of the article, “Wait Till Next Year”1, writ­
ten by Dave Kanner. I was gjad to see 
SQmeone finally giving the CMU comm­
unity a “deep look” at “Rudy’s Hoopers” 
(The CMU Varsity Basketball team), how­
ever, the “deep look” was not deep 
enough.
Dave covered the fact that the genera* 
student body at CMU does not support 
their basketball team very well. (Fd like to 
make a note that the Black fraction of the 
student body does support their basketbal1 
team extremely well. He also mentioned 
things like Pat Ward’s lack of offense and 
the fact that Chuck D’Angelo received a 
foot injury, and that Paul Hamerly tires 
quickly. Thank you for that information, 
Dave. But Dave, let’s take a closer look at 
the team, specifically the bench.
Although I have not been to every 
1974-75 Tartan basketball game I have 
been to quite a few. On every occasion, 
Fve noticed the same faces on the bench, 
the same Black faces on the bench. People 
like Tony Maddox, Billy Boykins, and Win-
& White, or In Color ?
ston Thomas....oh yes, I know that Billy 
does get to play a few minutes in almost 
every game, but that is trivial when you 
look at how talented the man is, and the 
fact that less able white players are con­
stantly seen on the flcitor. What do you say? 
Rudy is saving them for .the right mom­
ents?
Well let me answer that with the theory 
most of the Black fans at this university 
have learned to accept over the past 2-3 
basketball years. The theory is that as a 
rule more than 2 Black players are never 
allowed on thejlo.at the same time. Think 
back, when was the last time you saw more 
than two Black players on the floor at the 
same time? And the only time two Black 
players are allowed to play at the same 
time is when the Tartans are losing by a 
disgraceful amount and then the Black 
players are only on the floor until they 
score enough points to make the Tartan 
loss a little more honorable.
And as far as being saved for the right 
moment is concerned, the right moment 
never lasts more than 5 minutes a game.
Enough of that, I’m sure that by now 
you have read the letters between the lines 
and you know that those letters spell D-I- 
S-C-R-I-M-N- A-T-I-O-N. (An ugjy word on 
paper, but even uglier on the basketball
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU’s Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
• Desk Lamps • Key Service • Artist Brushes
• Hot Plates • Poster Paints • School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND 
Phone : 621-0923
court.)
Dave, as you probably realize Blacks 
have been waiting for- over 200 years to 
totally be rid of the racism and disc­
rimination thrown at them in our country, 
why should we “wait till next year” to deal 
with what should be dealt with to­
day? * C.J.
To say the least, this letter ranks very 
high as one of the most ridiculous I’ve ever 
read but still, it’s a little disturbing. Not 
disturbing in that it brings out some hidden 
secret, which it doesn’t, 
but because someone somewhere actually 
believes this. I immediately noticed that 
the author did not sign this letter, and the 
Tartan therefore had no obligation to print 
it. As race relations on this campus can’t 
get any worse, let’s take the letter apart bit 
by bit.
First, the line “...the Black fraction of 
the student body does support their 
basketball team.” Bull! As this letter points 
out, by its very nature, Black students at 
CMU support the Black members of the 
basketball team. I have attended games 
where the boos after the removal of a 
Black player were so loud, Rudy would put 
the same player right back in just to quell 
the noise. I have witnessed games where 
the Black players of the opposing team
were cheered rather than the five white 
Tartans out on the court. And the applause 
is exponentially- louder when Greg Cham­
bers hits a bucket than when Paul Hamerly 
does.
Getting down to specifics, the letter 
states that Tony Maddox, Billy Boykins, 
and Winnie Thomas are constantly seen on 
the bench and then goes on to say “...less 
able white players are constantly seen on 
the floor.” There is no way that Billy Boy­
kins deserves to play ahead of Dave Wuk- 
ich, Pat Ward, or Chuck D’Angelo. All 
three of these guards are better shooters, 
ballhandlers, and defenders than Boykins, 
so no no matter “how talented the man. is” 
he’s just not talented enough- Winnie 
Thomas is a-JV player who didn’t even suit 
up for every varsity game so I won’t bother 
discussing him. As for Tony Maddox, he is 
just plainly not good enough to get more 
playing time than he got. Did Rudy keep 
Marc Vranderic- on the bench in ’73-’74 
because Marc is white? I think not. Besides, 
Bill Mackin, who is white, saw less playing 
time than Maddox. How do you justify 
that? So you see, the reason why more 
than two black players were never seen on 
the floor at the same time is because CMU 
doesn’t have a third black player who is 
continued on page 23
VOTE FOR
DOUG KONOPKA
President of Student Government

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—April 8, 1975-Page 23
IM All-Schoolers
,y Mike Pochan
Sharp-shooting Kenny Nash of IM 
basketball champions Salt and Pepper cap­
ped the coveted Most Valuable Player 
[Ward in balloting held late in March.
Nash was one of the top overall scorers 
IM basketball. He led the CMU All-Stars 
gainst the Steelers with ten points while 
[»laying only half of the game. Bob Kozero 
PIKA finished second in the MUP vot­
ing.
In the All-School Team balloting, Nash 
md Ralph Domenick (Orangatangs) took 
j!e first team guard spots with Billy O’Ma- 
(ATO) and Jay Harper (PIKA) finishing
¡econd.
McDonough (GSIA) and Dave Burman 
S&P) were first team forwards with Frank 
assero (ATO) and Paul Edwards (S&-) 
on the second team.
First team center was Kozero of PIKA 
with Horton (S&P) and Cacciamani (BET- 
\) tied for second.
The CMU Intramural Sports Board will 
ilod elections for president and Man of the 
fear on Tuesday April 15 at 12:30 p.m. in 
he girls gym.
? Man of the Year, an award given to the 
rson who has done the most for promo- 
mg IM sports in 1974-75, will be de- 
ermined by the board. Nominated for the 
ward are Jeff Lettrich, Willy Frantz, Jay 
arper, and Martin White.
Running for the office of president are 
ay Harper (PIKA), Mike Pochan (SAE), 
d Paul Sielski (DTD).
All board members are urged to be pres- 
nt to participate in the election.
IM Track entries are due April 15. 
Teams and individuals are invited to partic­
ipate. The date for the meet is not yet 
determined.Fencing Wrap-up
by Ellie Zimmerman 
The CMU intramural tencing tour­
nament was held on April 1 in the women’s 
gym. The tournament involved three 
weapons (saber, epee, and foil). Eight men 
and four women competed together in two 
divisions. Six students made it to the final- 
s: Gordon Morrison (senior) Franklin Duck 
(grad, student), Tim Hoffman (freshman), 
Peter Harrington (senior, Jay ) Jay Ander: 
ko (freshman), and Crystal Hoffman (fresh­
man). The results of the finals are below.
Individual Victories 
The final standings were: Gordon Morri­
son finished first by fencing very well in his 
last three bouts. There was a tie for second 
between Tim Hoffman and Crystal Hoff­
man. Tim Hoffman won second on indica­
tors and Crystal placed third. They are 
both freshmen (not related) and their
accomplishments this year show much pro­
mise for the future.
Individual Victories Losses
Gordon Morrison 4 1
Franklin Duck 1 4
Tim Hoffmanc 3 2
Peter Harringtonc 2 3
Jay Anderko 2 3
Crystal Hoffman 3 2
ECONOMICS IN SPORTS
GEORGE BURMAN
Holder of a Ph. D. in Economics and an Ex- 
Washington Redskin will share his thoughts on the 
Present Economic System in Professional Sports.
TONIGHT - TUESDAY APRIL 8th 
in Donner Hall Lobby
At 8:00 p.m.
Sponsored By
RESIDENT LIFE PROGRAMS
Larry Steuver (4) takes a slap shot as Bill Miller (6) looks on.leers Win Tourney
22V6 thfi virtnrs ii IpqH tliav nmrarby Dave Girdany
The Carnegie-Mellon University hockey 
team capped off a great season by winning 
the first Rotary Invitational College Hock­
ey Tournament. In doing so, the Tartans 
left many people questioning Pitt’s local 
dominance. By beating Penn State 3-1 in 
the finals, CMU defeated for the second 
time this year a team that handled Pitt 
easily, 7-2, in the semi-finals. And, by beat­
ing Navy, 5-3, in the semi-finals, CMU 
defeated a team that beat Pitt earlier in the 
year and, but for a goal scored by the 
Panthers in the last eleven seconds, would
have beaten them 6-5 in the consolation game. (Final score- 6-6)
Tartan goaltender Frank Sciulli, aided 
by the strong defensive play of Larry Stue- 
ver, Bill Miller, Mike Kenworthy, and Rich 
Eastman played his best game of the year 
against the Nittany Lions, which earned 
him the tournament Most Valuable Player 
trophy.
CMU never trailed in the game. A late 
first period goal by Tom Grimm and an 
early second period goal by Mike Gallaway
gave the victors a lead they never relinq­
uished. Bill Proudman’s second period 
breakaway goal cut the Tartan margin to 
one as well as breaking Frank’s shutout. 
Midway through the third period, Dave 
Cornelius’ shortanded shutout. Midway 
through the third period, Dave Cornelius’ 
shorthanded goal, CMlTs second in two 
days, made the margin two again and Penn 
State never caught up.
SCORING SUMMARY First Period
1)CMU-Grimm 13:05, Second Period
2)CMU-Gallaway (Leety, Arturo) 2:06
3)PSU-Proudman (Gianfpapa) 12:17, Third 
Period 4)CMU-Comelius (Grimm) 5:04 
Shots on goal: PSU-9, 12, 7-28, CMU-10, 
8, 8-26 CMU-Navy First Period 1)CMU- 
Goldsmith (Cornelius, Grimm)5:21, Sec­
ond Period 2)N- Shegrud 2:16, 3)CMU- 
-Goldsmith (Cornelius, Grimm)Third Peri­
od 4)CMU- Arturo(shorthanded) (Ken- 
worthy, Gallaway) 1:49 5)CMU-Leety (Ke­
nworthy, Gallaway) 8:07 6)N-Niedermair 
(Nerlich Shegrud) 9:20 7)N-Nerolich 11:53 
8)CMU- Arturo (empty net) (Leety) 
14:37Black & White. . . .
continued from page 22 
good enough to put out there.
“And the only time two black players 
are allowed to play is when the Tartans are 
losing by a disgraceful amount, and then 
the Black players are only on the floor 
until they score enough points to make the 
Tartan loss a little morehonorable.” What a 
load of nonsense! The examples that dis­
prove that statement are innumerable and 
anyway, the Black players rarely outscore 
their white counterparts or turn the score 
from “disgraceful” to “honorable”.
The letters between the lines spell 
T-A-L-E-N-T. Greg Chambers is extremely 
talented and therefore he plays a lot. He is 
not by any means a “token Negro”. The 
ability that a basketball player possesses 
isn’t measured by his skin color.
Hey, I’ve got an idea! Before every game 
and practice, let’s paint all the Tartan cag- 
ers day-glo red! That way Rudy won’t be 
able to tell whether he’s discriminating 
against a Black player or a White player! 
Fair enough?
For Free Brochure - Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-THE TARTAN—April 8,1975
First Six-Week Session, May 13-June 20; Registration and First Day of Classes, May 13. 
Second Six-Week Session, June 23-August 1; Registration and First Day of Classes, June 23.
Undergraduate tuition is $24 - Graduate tuition is $30
Courses marked with an asterisk are scheduled tentatively-, pending sufficient enrollment.
BIOLOGY
03-121 Modern Biology
CHEMISTRY
*09-106 Bonding and Structural Principles
*09-117 Organic Chemistry I
09-218 Organic Chemistry II
09-243 Physical Chemistry II
09-244 Physical Chemistry III
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
*15-101 Computer Appreciation
15-104 Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)
15-11-1 Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)
15-211 Fundamental Structures of Programming
*15-211 Fundamental Structures of Programming
15-380 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
MATHEMATICS 
21-121 Calculus I
21-122 Calculus II
21122 Calculus II
21123 Calculus III
21-123 Calculus III
21-259 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra
21-141 Linear Algebra
PHYSICS
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics (Self-Paced)
33-122 Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Self-Paced)
33-123 Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism (Self-Paced)
STATISTICS
36-211 « Probability and Applied Statistics I
36-219 Statistical Methods for Data Analysis
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE 
70-363 Law in Modern American Society
CIVIL ENGINEERING 
*12-103 Systems Engineering I
ECONOMICS
73-100 Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I
*73-250 Resource Alloc, in Market Econ. ^
ENGLISH 
76 406 
76-428 
*76 580 
76 721 
*76-886 
76-809 
*76-803
9 units MTWThF 1:30-2:45 pm SCH 5427 (1)
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
' 9 units
9 units
11 units 
11 units 
11 units 
11 units 
11 units 
9 units 
9 units
10 units
10 units
10 units
Modern Novel'
American Drama of the Twentieth Century 
Composition 
Shakespeare
The Comic Spirit in World Literature 
The Twentieth Century American Novel 
Writing Workshop 
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
*79-500 Power and Values In the Modern World
79-703 Peacemaking
79-853 Interpreting the History of Modern Thought
79-857 Readings in History
79-869 Internship in Historical Research
79-879 Internship in Curriculum Development
*79-103 American Civilization
MODERN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF.
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
MTWThF
1:30-2:45 pm 
10:00 11:15 am 
10:00-11:15 am 
11:30-12:45 pm 
11.30 12:45 pm
1:30-2:45 pm 
1:30-2:45 pm 
3:00-4:15 pm 
3:00-4:15 pm 
3:00-4:15 pm 
1:30-2:45 pm
8:30-9:45 am 
8:30-9:45 am 
8:30-9:45 am 
8:30-9:45 am 
8:30-9:45 am 
10:00 11:15 am 
11:30-12:45 pm
SCH 5304 (1) 
SCH 5328 (1) 
SCH 5328 (2) 
SCH 5336 (1) 
SCH 5336 (2)
SCH 5310 (2) 
SCH 5310 (1) 
SCH 5310 (1) 
SCH 5320 (1) 
SCH 5320 (2) 
SCH 5320 (1)
SCH 5302 (1) 
SCH 5304 (1) 
SCH 5302 (2) 
SCH 5316 (1) 
SCH 5316 (2) 
SCH 5302 (1) 
SCH 5302 (1)
Hours Arranged SCH 6423 (1)
First Meeting May 13, 1 pm
Hours Arranged SCH 8427 (1)
First Meeting May 13, 1 prtT
Hours Arranged SCH 5427 (1)
First Meeting May 13, 1 pm
9 unitsMTWThF3:00-4:15 pmSCH 5316(1)
9 unitsMTWThF1: 30-2:45 pmSCH 5316(1)
9 unitsMW7:00-10:00 pmBH 232F(1)
9 unitsMTWThF3:00-4:15 pmPH 125C(1)
9 unitsMTWThF11:30-12:45 pmPH 125B(1)
9 unitsMTWThF3:00 4:15 pmPH 125B(1)
9 unitsMTWThF10:00-11:15 amPH 126A(1)
9 unitsMTWThF11:30-12:45 pmPH 126A(1)
9 unitsMTWThF1: 30-2:45 pmPH 126A(1)
12 unitsMTWThF1: 30-2:45 pmPH 126A(2)
12 unitsMTWThF10:00-11:15 amPH 255A(2)
12 unitsMTWThF11:30-12:45 pmPH 255A(2)
12 unitsMTWThF3:00 4:15 pmPH 255A(2)
9 unitsMTWThF1:30-2:45 pmPH 125C(1)
12 unitsMTWThF1:30-2:45 pmPH 125C(2)
12 unitsMTWThF10:00 11:15amPH 125C(2)
Units variable Hours ArrangedPH 226A(2)
First Meeting June 23, 1 pm
Units variable Hours ArrangedPH 226A(2)
First Meeting June 23, 1 pm
Units variable Hours ArrangedPH 226A(2)
First Meeting June 23, 1 pm
9 unitsMTWThF3:00-4:15 pmPH 125C(1)
'*82-620Translation Workshop: FrenchUnifS variable Hours Arranged
First Meeting May 13,pm
BH 232D ( 1)
*82-630Translation Workshop: GermanUnits variable Hours Arranged
First Meeting May 13,pm
BH 232D (1)
*82-640Translation Workshop: SpanishUnits variable Hours Arranged
First Meeting May 13,pm
BH 232D (1)
82-107Programmed FrenchUnits variable Hours Arranged
First Meeting May 13,pm
BH 232D (1)
82-123Programmed GermanUnits variable Hours Arranged
First Meeting May 13,pm
BH 232D (1)
82-143Programmed SpanishUnits variable Hours Arranged
First Meeting May 13,pm
BH 232D (1
niN3
CMU
SUMMER
1975:
CLASS SCHEDULES AND
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION MATERIALS
*57Individual Lessons: Piano^Organ, Vocal, Instrumental3-12 units(2)
*57-181Ear Training and Sight Singing3 units(2)
*57-833The Second Viennese Classical School6 units(2>‘*
'57-879Functional Guitar for Music Educators6 units(2)“
*57-867Administration and Supervision in Music Education6 units(2)**
*57 875Contemporary Problems in Music Education6 units(2)“
‘57-805Keyboard Literature I (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)“
*57 891Song Literature I (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)-’
*57-855Seminar in String Literature (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2,"
*57 873Principles of Music Education6 units(2)*'*
*57 876Practicum in String Techniques6 units(2)***
*57-877Music Practicum for Elementary Classroom Teachers6 units(2,-..
*57 806Keyboard Literature It (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)**'
*57-892Song Literature II (undergrad, or grad.6 units(2) "
*57-732Secondary Voice (undergrad, or grad.)6 units(2)*'*
ART
*51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
60-251,751Ceramics9 units(2)
*60-119,719Drawing9 units(21
*60 125,725Drawing for Painting and Sculpture9 units(2)
‘60-265,765Fabric Design9 units(2)
*60 342,742Glassblowing9 units(2)
*60-237,737Intaglio9 units(2)
‘60-235,735Lithography9 units(2)
*60 379,779History of Drawing and Prints9 units(2) -
*60-254,754Metalcrafts9 units(2)
*60-226,726Painting9 units(2)
*60-231.731Screen Printing9 units(2)
60-266,766Weaving9 uniti(21 .
‘60-459Large Scale Sculpture,21 units
CMU/lndustry Collaborative May 14-June 27
*60 460The Plastics/Resins World June 23 July 36 units
*60-463Tree to Sculptor July 7-July 186 units
*60 464Wax to Bronze in 14 Days July 21 August 16 units
' 'June 23-Juiy 11“July 14 August 1
Registration for the First Six-Week Session will be held in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo (the Student Activities Center) on the first day of classes 
Tuesday, May 13, during the hours of 9:00 a.m. — 12:00 noon, 1:00 
p.m. — 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. — 7:00 p.m. Registration for the Sec­
ond Six-Week Session will be held on Monday, June 23 from 8:30 a.m. 
until 5:00 p.m. in the Registrar's Office, Warner Hall 201. If you will
REQUEST FOR REGISTRATION MATERIALS, SUMMER, 1975 
(for presently-enrolled CMU students)
TO: Director, Summer Programs 
108 Warner Hall 
Carnegle-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
NAME ________________________________________________
submit the enclosed form, duly completed, (preferably before April 
30) the Registrar will then send you appropriate registration materials. 
Courses in both sessions are subject to change due to unforeseen cir­
cumstances. Schedule conflicts should be discussed with the Director 
of Summer Programs.
Please send me registration materials for the following courses: 
Course Number * Units
STUDENT NO._____
MAILING ADDRESS
New students should write for applications to 
Director, Summer Programs, CMU.
