Men must be -«t liberty to 
6ay in priift; whatever they 
[jave in unnd to say, pro­
vided it wiongBino.one. 
_CHARLEa A. DANACarnetiie 3TartauA Stride Forward
VOL- 29, NO. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TEGHNOI,OGYs PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY; APRIL 23, 1935
135 Candidates Vie for 43 Offices in Today’s Annual Class ElectionGeneralfefelic Invited To Inspect Carnègie Equipment, Work-Fri,
B.O.T.C. Parade Precedes 
Evening Program, All 
Shops Are Open
SCHOOL GROUPS 
WILL TOUR BLDGS.
Guides Will Conduct Small
Groups Through College 
During Afternoon
Carnegie’s twenty-ninth open 
hciisc exhibition will be held Fri­
day afternoon and nigbt, tbe eve- 
uiug program being preceded by 
a dress parade of the R. 0. T. C. 
si 7:00.The afternoon tours for juniors 
mi seniors in high school were in­
sisted three years. ago to show 
prospective college .students the 
advances made and the opportuni­
ties open in. the fields of science, 
cducaiion, arts, and industry. These pnpils are escorted through the buildings in Bmall groups, each un­der Hie guidance of a Carnegie stu­dent who is prepared either to answer questions or, refer the pu­pils lo Hie propert authority.In Ihe College . of . Enginerlng, 111 Department of Physics will
license.Experiments Planned - -The Deoarlment oC Chemical En­gineering win jiiake quantitative analyses!of common everyday pro; ducts, nn(l the Inorganic and "or­ganic laboratories will- presentrex- perlmc^ts ln clveinit,. Tlie chemical iOglneerinp Jab', '.will demonstrate rich prbcesscs.' cis • distlllftftion^and
Teels ot'the' strength'‘‘of .'ehst'
models. of the Ty- part river dam in West "Virginia and the Allegheny river at Lock. No. 9 BS Part of the Pittsburgh flood- protection stiidy.In the Department of 'Metal-: lurglcal Engineering, the. Graduate' Jfetaliureieal Lab.: will present. Irt-, vestlffatioTin of som,^.properties, of melala, such - as corrosion, expan­sion, and contraction.-.The electric. furnace and rolling mill will be is operation. v
The Department, of Electrical En­gineering will display a photoelec­tric button sorter, a short wave radio set. an automatic motor con-- tfol, thyrotron -motor ^control,-a- modulated, .llcht^beant.'.trtltine] plo* lure; a multiple'" uhtt ,biteratton~-8tl railways, a threephase-devolving Held demonstration, and a cathode ray oscillograph. ,Shops Are Open The Forge and Heat Treatment Mon in ihQ basement of Industries building will he given over to work.
•Naplay their products—flower pot a and«. andirons, ash trays, ><c.. ...A model home'wJli bé.complétëlÿ finished and furnished -lb: the;Con: çrete and Maaontyàhop, thèwork. <o. be done-by the... students-before »he exhibition. - .Work will ûJeQ..b'è elip^n^in '>ta* «nine shop, the Layout àftd..b.esiéiï- studio, Typography v'shop.Presa-'
Printing;,,vElectrlcdi
lertels laboratory, and the' Psychol-. ®8y laboratory.Jn Margaret Morrison. Carnegie ®Megc. exhibitions . will be' given in tlie Departments of General Set­tee. Social Work, .Costume Eco- uomic3. Household'Economics, and •-Ccre.Mrlai Studies. > v;Water Analysts Explained •'Tlie bacteriological students In Department of General .Science: *)lt demonstrate the methods'used' 11he analysis of water,' tnllk.'aiid V'^ods. including 'the. tests 'for ;ln- •<|iiBlnal wastes. Exhibits of tissues: I1® embryoldglcal specimens will *,so be on display;'; The'iDepai't-' ¡nent of Physics Intendstbahow rhe Slory of ScerieVxWhich are titn? concerning the development :f ‘ffihtinc. effects.. The' v biplogy*':;10n T,11l experiment’on insectsw ^Pbibians. Although plans- entirely completed,Department of Chemistry hopes o-liave students: demonstrating Pnygioiogicalchemlcarexperlirfents»: »8 six or eight •Riming process« ,«Pectlve experiments.
Soli0«? 106 department :o* ->w.- $°?k Jhas .a.rran^ed'a .Bpe: 81 exhibit of charts and'plctures ‘¦«ncernlng the field of social work.. during the .entire everiing on. Frlr «il’A children's playroom; 'euper- sed hy the students of the de- Mrtment, will he available in room 
«¦hf- children while their par* _ nr® making a :tour oMlie restg* uie campus • •
.^/«nonstratton of the hand- fihi ,heing.-d6ne in clubS'
th? J!1t. cainP9 will he given- .by, ne sophomore girls In the depart? "““I in the toYm ot a puppet show.Continued on Page Four.) '
Publications Offices 
Open During Exhibit
lie inspection on Friday, Exhibi­tion Night.
Members of the Tartan staff will demonstrate how^a newspa­per is written and prepared for pointing.
Progressive displays of how newspaper illustrations and zinc halftones are prepared will be shown. Copies of magazines and newspapers published at other colleges have been secured end will be available to vjBltore and studonts.
-fhelr third engagement' for the for 
mat' 'dancé spopsóréd by Carnegie 
Tech organlziat^n's^he previous 
engagements.iiteiiip --the Intersoror- 
lt^i^CT£|,^^'^^fGrv6eft'sing. and 
Swing,; '. '¦‘•¦'¿I
, /.The. Sprlng'Porrn’al. as,the •'name, 
implies, is 'a strictly formal: affair,
.«ppnsored annually by the ’nra^ons, men's !senior-, honorary raocietyy^ta f)l!'thee¿í)ln^e'.:spcíalV‘¿al‘e'ndai'' betweenthe lnt¿rfraternity.;BáÜ and the tíommenceinent.^áU'wltlí a- function which the 'whole school may attend/ •;:Ticke.ts for-the'dance .afe\'$I'.25 per coiiple, and may be obtained Worn any member of Dragons,?ór .. from the rObrjetlan. aBsoclatíón^'óf-'i acrosQrthe' flril8h'at the :Qy(innas: flee in .the^:XnduatrleeObülldl¿g. .- i| ehtrehce.te'^chéhley'Park^v
Bacciiaiialians 
To Give Spring 
Carnival Sliow
‘Shining Armour’ by Iden 
Payne and Rosemary 
Casey Opens May 10
PLAY GOES ON AT 
THE DAVIS THEATER
Rules for Interfraternity 
Sweepstakes are Being 
Sent to AH Houses
Bacchanalians society will pro­duce “Shlniug Arm« contribution to the Spring Carnival activities. The show will be played iu th* Davis theater,. It was writ­ten by Rosemary Caeey, Pittsburgh jJaywrlght, nnd B.' Iden Payne, In­structor in the Carnegie Depart­ment of Drama. There wlll.be two performances. May 10 and 11. The Saturday show will bei for students holding Spring Carnival'tickets.
Tickets for the 1935 Spring CarVotaro’s Band 
Engaged For 
Spring Formal
Dance FilU Open Gap In 
Social Calendar,
9-12 Saturday '
Carnegie's annual Spring Formal 
will be held in 'Thistle, hail,
Saturday from 9:00 till 12;00 to tbe 
music of Fat Notaro and his Midi 
ehJpmen.
Prominenlion the social calendars 
or other campuses, having played for 
the W. & J. Foil formal, the Penn 
State; Spring formal, the. Univ^,
.slty of West Virginia rJunior- prom,> 
and the junior and.*senior proms» of 
the'Pennsylvanla^jCoIIege-for Wo• •• B :¦ 1,U1 U'unuiva;.-^VShinin& 'Acmoiir-’ilnev^r-dld play
The price, for tho ntertainment Js. $1.75 • $3.R0 per couple. This price in eludes . all functions and .a three- days’ subscription to the. Carnfva- Han, dally tabloid published during the Can* *
In addition to the..'Coronation Ball and the Costume dance there will be a Tea dance Saturday after- in Thistle hall following the
been completed for all of the.bands which will play at the dances, bin Will Ryshanek's orchestra is ccr tain to be the Coronation Bail
“Shining Armour,’’ of Baccha­nalian production was first present- by o professional ti oup of players at Locust Valley, Long Island, last summed it'was so successful that Broadway producers bought tho 
production rights and cast the play Broadway.'
-the' opening i dispute betweei the directors and the authors.of th( play and Ihe play was called off. Bacchanalians have produced t
1932 and In the same : sehted a musical revue “Over .the Coals” at the Pitt theater. 'Last year' "Love Is .Not. important1
iiitv- .pushmoblle sweepstakes have beeri'drawn /up and will be sent to nll: df the fraternity houses. There .havé-been no changes. The race Pill be up thé road past the Gymnasluni, through Scheiiley . Park and up the :hlll '-‘i^aat Industries building,-and
People You Ought So Know...
- Julian Munster, .Fraternity Council Head
' V‘: ‘“^ateiTjities are abiolutely necessary for tiie -welfare of the :town and out bfftowii stuSehts’ af Gamegie.This /is the Julian. .P;-ManEtep/.^r^ident TDterfreterMitycouncil.In the -future he prophesies there will be fewer frater- nities-.J^ere,-there-are now tQb many hb'uses for tlie,'size<of the m^ic-4"tu^ri^trbody. ;T^ Muirnher.J. . ...\ :
::“‘I'cAerfrateTnltyv council should# ; • . •.
Òre.èk • .íéiter assoclátlons: tails j to:-ísee'. 'the reason why any iother organization 'should seek ¦ to
. "I think ,that- the School au-, thoritieS; would be glad if there
those schools where fraterni­ties have been abolished the few societies
Julian Munster The fraternity system will never die out," Munster believes.,' The ,,future' Carnegie fraternity, Muùster claims, will;be more dub- like. vÖut-ofcWTPn men will live at the-club. Town men will congre­gate- •there ' to. participate in the clüb. life:- This interest, shown by thè .studentB - .who live in Pitts­burgh wllt be- one of the: big fac­tors- in '.making for -better, cluh. 
spirit.:'-'.: . V'The school has tlie: fraternities '¿V^tlie nape of the.iieck. No go.bd %ilf c<iir.a 'fron ithis - contro!..; I dpubt if /the. administration will do anything'; : constructive 
^ipusesi"
for the' 
savs .Mr. Münster.-. -.
He 'holds' that the . last rushing season- except for a tew irregular-; ïtlüà'was.Ideal. A planned rushing orogr^m -more.--.satisfactory. forall concerted. The Interfraternity council le trying to secure the ad­ministration's • approval for; a rush­ing season one or two Veek» after the opening' of school. Munster believes-this'-will: be better for the students- and ' would ;afford the fra-
) Help fre'sh- 
iithe ; âprmitorléa.It 16- the fraternity’s own fault If .it cannot present, itself-. Me an at-, tractive' enough-light to be able'to pledge'men.
Cbuucire '-presidentv claims that fraternities should 'be -^exclusive. He would like-to’ see more’co-op-.: eratlon ^.between the - hausen in' campus' activities.’ There should, be more open parties. : Loyalty to one’s house Is a splendid" thing'If it Is not carried to the point of hatred for others. There is no fra­ternity, which takes a man's Indi­viduality from'him. N’or do frater­nities push meu unwillingly Into campus positions. .The men engage- In activities-of-their own -accord.^ They become better: rounded through /fraternity - comni#eehlps
> preparing iaud interests.Munster’s council booklet about Carnegie: fraternity Hie which will be sent to incoming students next fall. - Carnegie should
time and energies . educating - the students. The ^ school , should^, be. more liberal.. W^:/need move eco-
He'. isbusiness manager . of the' Tartan, has Pitched hiked to Chicago -and ridden Ihe rods with hoboes.- 'He likes the arte, would like -more Little Theater-; tickets distributed.
ated idea of their whichthem to take their- place in the world alter graduation. .- -
New : Council Bead
Addison Gilmore who has been 
elected Student council president 
for next year.
Annual Cook’s 
Forest Outing 
Is Arranged
G. A. Officers for Next 
Year to. Be Installed 
During Retreat
Robert C. Coblentz ’36, George 
W. Lamhertson ’37, and WJJliai 
Shaitor v’36, will be installed 
president; vice, president, and 
retary respectively of ihe. Carnegie' 
Christian Association for the com­
ing-year.-dviring that organization's, 
annual .retreat in Cook’s CoreBt- on 
May 3, A, and 5.
Thé program for the three days 
iucludés: addresses, by Dr. Hugh 
Thompson Kerr,; . pastor ¦ of 'tlie- 
Sh&dyalde^ .Presbyterian , churcij^ ; 
¿jr;‘John’Hay. Eweva^.pastor of 
End Christian church; .and Üean 
N. R. High Moor, dean of Trlnltv 
Cathedral. Athletic events, such 
as hiking, swimming, tennis,^ and 
znushballt crtmâx^d .by tbe-facùlty- 
studenit niuahball Earne, will also be 
on thé program.
All students wishing-to make-the 
retreat Bhould ïeayèVthelrnames lu 
ihe Christian-association office as 
soon as possible. slnce ;,the. number 
s [lowed tô take the (r/p ia limited. 
A notice''wlllv be posted, in the of­
fice listing -;car 'assignments, hours 
of. lea\ing, and instructions for ap­
parel. .'The:: automobiles provided 
for the trip will leave-from the
tTance-'af~ Administration.-h(dl- 
the aftsrscan of May , 3 and return 
timé for -claaaes on-May S. Those 
students wishing to take their- own 
;rs may do so;
TÍié .committee'in charge ;óf ar- rangenients lor the'retreat consists of Allen E. Rlaedorph, Instructor of physical educatioD and coach of the.- swimming', téáni, -Kent. D. Shaf-; fer-. inemictor ofvpaUern shop, and CUfton tiotfcelle ’íitJ71>épartment of Printing..
Physicist Gives 
Public/Lecture
T>r. Ernest 'Ov Lawrence,- profest 
n of physics and , director-of fadiatlon .laboratoty at the/tTniver- Blty;.oi: California, wlll'speak:,bn the subject--1 of ^Unstable . Atoms”' ou Monday e,veiilng, [April 29, in :Rooni 104, Thdustrles,,,Building. The lee- ture Js’-.ppen to’.the' public" and is scheduled for .8':'30 p.-:mr • y‘'Professor Lawrence received his A. B. arid Jtfaeter’s degtee from' tht University of Minnesota and held a National - Research fellowship at vale-university from ,1925 to 1927.
Hé_has doné most of hfs. research in the striiclure ot-atoms,/atoinlc nucteus, transmutation : of-, atoms, and Interaction of eradiation and
I Coming ¦ Events.
Wednesday—- - •• 1 •'30-^Tau, Bete pi iiutiatlon‘din- ner-^arnegleV rnnCXf'.'/''' Thursday—- v .' - •12:-30L—Safety Valvo^-R H ,113. 3:30—SLudlo Matlne^Three one . '• act- plays.; .¦ -4 to. fr—Cwen Tea daflce, P:at No- taro s orchestra—Thistle hall. Friday-—
7 10—ROTC dress parade—Tho Cut7:3fl—Carnegie Exhibition;- Saturday— •: ..tol2—Camede-S_p5tagForinal —Thistle.hall. . ;vi.:30—MfitfneeT-''Lllldm^'T—Little theater. • ' -•Sunday-
A. L. Gilmore 
Elected New 
Council Head
Carl Dozer Is Named 
Vice-President; Rial 
New Treasure*
nmeumest b-«sli
CHOSEN SECRETARY
Recommendations to New. 
Group Will Be Made 
At Joint Meeting-
Addison L. Gilmore T3C, Depart, 
tuent of. Commercial Engineering, 
was elected president of Student' 
council Cor the year 193G-36 at the regulnr council meeting lhBt Tues- dayl. Carl M. Dozer '36, was named vlco president, George A. Rlnl' ‘36, treasurer, and Margaret' A. Me- Keon '36, secretary.. Mr, 'Gilmore, who was recently elected vice president of the Engl- neerlhg Senate, Is secretory of Del­la- Tau Delta, social fraternity. He is a member of tho Tri-Publica­tions and Tartan sports staffs. 'Before tho new Student council officers assume their duties a Joint meeting of the old and new conn-, cllsvwin be held. At this meetlug recommendations' to the new coun­cil will be made."Mr. Dozer, Department of Drama, is president of the College'of tfne Arts Senate and chairman of Bac­chanalians, campus week Bhow group. He lias been active in the direction arid - announcing of tho Carnegie broadcasts.Mr. Rial, Department of Chemical
MlsB^McìCeon, -Department, Secretarial Studies,'Is a member, of :Kappá *Ph'PDélt‘a 'sorority1 àud the ‘CM,fîé'ère'^'wômëii*s‘i‘i"GUliar^‘~'Slï<j servad as asslstiint'secretary in Stu- dènUcouncil this past'year;' " ‘ ’
T au Bela Pi Holds 
Initiation Dinner
Nat’l Engineering Honorary
Inducts 14 Members
'dinner for:the Initiates on April 24. The feuest speaker will he Attorney W. J. Blenko* The Initiation Will be hold in the faculty club room at 4:30. The dlnner -wlll be given, in the Carnegie Inn at six o'clock. '^The -lpitlates . ar^^ J.vJ, ! Kyl^nd ’36, B P; Younger '36. It' C. Me- Master '36, L K. Jetter «36, P. H. Wychoff -36, W. A. Klein ’36, J. E. Conner ‘36; C.:H. Leatham ’36. J. B. Single ’38. E. -S. »owarth ‘36. R. W. Halli ;S6. A. R. Miller ’36. U S, BIack '36, And H- J- Mitchener !36.
At. its last' meeting,' Scarab; na­tional fprpfesslonal fraternity;'.-in architecture, elected officers * torthe coming yqear.
ble .’37 viceipreBident; Gerald
Student Council ApprovesNew 
Puppet Staff Appointments
L. Van Valkenburgh Appointed Editor-in-Chief; 
David Schmid, Business Manager; Last Two 
Issues Under Supervision of ftew Staff
Lsster D. Van VHlkenburgU ’30, Dupavtment of Aeronautical Engi­neering, and David M. Schmid '37, Department or Commercial Engi­neering, have beeu .appointed edi-' tor-Iu-chicf and business mnnnger i respectively of the Puppet staff for 193C-36. John Richmond, odllor-IU'Chlef of the present stun', recently mude these ap­pointments nnd they wero ii]l*proved by «Stu­dent council last Tuesday.Mr. Van Vnl- kenbtirgh Jb . a LeBter . member of Del-Van Valkenburgh ta Upsllon fra-
Mr. Schmid; a member of PI Kappa Alpha, is manager .of the varsity football team and a formor
-ment. of Painting and Design, has been named art editor. Mr Robison is a member of Ihe Gleo club, art editor of the Thistle, and the Tar-
exchange editor.
Thur.Matinee 
Offers 3 Pläys
Time for Liliom Matinee 
Shifted to Saturday
, On Thursday sUiderits of the De­
partment of:'Dranm >yiH glvo thre'o 
plays-In. the Studio tlientor ;on 
tliird floor, pi Administration build' -lng,ftt-3:S0.-v—. .v...v; A.
. The^ first play. "A Comer-of Erig- Jartd” b'y j. -MacDonnld Clark, is be­ing directed by EHzdb^th Levlnger. The cast'includes Ida Blckley, Ruth- Deiks, Alice .Robinson,-Brlnton Tur* kle, nnd William Herz.
< The sccond piny, "Eertlo, Moenlc. Minio, Mo,’'.;ls by' Margaret, Me- Curdy. Barry Mulligan is the-direc-. tor, and the cast Includes Sara Scòti, jane Francy, Virginia Martin. Aldeh Smith, ..Barry. Mulligan/ and. James McConnell.
“Bedside Manner” Is tho third play written by Edwin S. Day. It Is being directed by Marcia (iéetyf.and in the .cast' are Janet Patrick, George Lloyd, and Portia Matthew's.. Because ot the annual exhibition on Friday, April 26, the usual Little theater mp.tlnee: has been ' shifted .ta.Saturday, afternoon,et;2:30. T^é ^lifty-vto '‘ije- given la ’'XiIllbia” T>y
Ing the past.: week. The caBt for
Hubley,. Sylvia Llpka, jnne Wltmer, Geòrgie Etta Taylor, Leonora Uls; Binger, Barbara ICocyan, Ben Yaffee, William Davis, James. McConnell, Homer HuVi, barryMùiìie&Ti, George Klttredge, . William Canton, Vincent Maselli, Millori Goldbloom, Thomas Koehler, Alden Smltb, Ed­ward Paukòt, .Carl. .Dozer,, William Her«,. Ralph. Nason, Robert Gor­don, Charles Ashbaugh, Brlnton Tnrkle. Malcolm. MUliagan, and George Lloyd.______'J
Hollywood Not Show Place People 
Think It Is, Says Maty Brian
.. * By Rosemary Pierce
; Neither the naive .Wendy that first made lie.r fanions, nor the typf-
sitting-dpp.OBltei
smiled.' '‘-'Actresses like a variety of-roleia,, and dislike above all to he dismissed: as. one-track types." - ;
mate Is' Ideal, for one thing. Bat of course If the studios, move, ‘Til probably go where the'y. go.”; r,lidllyw6bd )e yery tli^ereBt'if'bbi what is was several years ago,” she- frerit on, 'i^The-whole nersonali^r of the town is changing irom an aitiflcial sl^ow place more to a com­munity of real human beings. There are still, some people who .continue sd:.;go iB-/for.-di2p'la?4 ..hut on. the whole there Is a tendency toward calmer and more economic living—
about different Hollywood, types-
don’tas do outsiders. We-see them, on thè street and in the swimming
by Adrian, so of courso the mention of their-names has a dlfDerent' sig­nificance ;to: us. u-“So fair as my favorite' type of person is concerned,V she explained,
wholly' studious, but:a ufcely 6oned-blend of the, two/*f.Outside of:'her .screen work,' she Is most énth)i8lástic about drawing, svylrnmlng. and dancing. ^ “Although just how,”, she laughed., ''dancing Is .moré of a job' than a hobby, since -I've been: doing .personal oippeéiS
Brian's spine, but talking t€lephOBe':le oae-of-hisr pet'grudgesi she admitted.“i’ve .neyer.fecelved atiy bad hews-In telegrams; and 1 love to get. them ;, biit when It.eomes to telephoning) I never do it uolees I hare to."- Not so with dogs, however. .All through' our:, cbnversatlon-'
Mary E. WeUnch ’30, Depart­
ment of Household Ecoriamlcs. has 
heen named feature editor. She 1b 
t memboy of Kappa Phi Dumi, ma 
ride U‘nm. ami - sudili cimimi of the “Y" inot.
Smith '3ti. De­partment or Sec- retm'Iâl Studios, is the ue\Y wo­rn en’s editor. Beatrice Archer '37, Department of Painting and Design 
boeii named Ji •
David’Schmid
J.-ack Tobler ’37, . Deparemtn of Metallurgical lCiiglnoerlog, )9 advertising manti
b&r of Delta Tau Delta fraternity, has beeu named circulation mana-
Tlie nèwly appointed stuff' will have ohiu-ge of the last two Issues of tho Puppet. The next issue or
f the school year, will- ap*
Give Annual 
French Flay
Vincent Parisi Directs 
. “Gai Marions-nous^
' .Tho members, of tho Depavttnent- 
or Modeni Lungimges will, pvosent 
the,French' piay . “Gal Marlons- 
libiiB'-’ bjf ^lbert Acrpmant on-Aprll 
¡fi^andgO.at.^ilCln.tiy^^tudlti.tho^
ûter.' -' A matinee-'wTll 'bé given on, 
ihè latter day at.3:45;-^The depart* 
meut presents mr play. oach-jyear- as 
the class project..; The drama, a 
comedy Jn three 4-Myo6ay6 glvfen en­
tirely ]n French and directed Mr. Vlncant G. Parlsl, professor of 
Modern Langiiages.-, • - • -
The jilot of the comedy 1^ involv­
ed,1 being centered around a widow­
ed Baroness, V^ho. in' her youth was 
happily married, and who-later de­
cided to bécome a match-maker. 
However her' effort to. create sim­
ilar happy .marriages: proved futile 
when the young people chose their 
mates from among .those for. whom 
she ha<l ' other - plans. Furthermore,' 
the . married.^ife -of . .the.^pne couple, 
whom ypl did succeed in bringing 
together was by no means happy.
The cAét Is composed of students 
of all the French classes... Double 
casting of the parts enables a 
larger number of students, to par?- 
tlclpote in the- acting and benefit from the study: The cast is as fol-' lows: La .Baronne Challlon, Sara-
erts; Christiane, Betty O’Toole'and
Ham Herz • and Professor Maurice L. Carroll; Hubert, Brlnton Turkle and John Robertson; Leon Miche, Arnold Procllchs; Charles-Laverne, Germano ‘ Milan ' and' *. Charles Hayes; Eirnest- , Brocard; Walter DerDeyne and James Speyer- XJn Swisse d'Egllee, Malcolm Milligan and John Biickner. - Mr.; Parlsl In directing thè'pro-' ductlon le bejng assisted *by Mjsa
of Modern Language«, and ..Mr.
Cwens Give Tea 
Dance Thursday
(it Thistle hall. this .Thursday.‘from ffrur o'clock until six. Pat Natar'ro And his •Midshipmen !hiive >ieen en-. eaged ..for .the. dance/: .TKifl-;o^ chestra played • at the Intersorority, formal and at the, Greek Sing and Swlpg,;.and. was;metj.with enthu-. slasm at both 'daqces, • •• After'.thel; tea: dance the- Cwens will entertain the. Junior.; and Sen­ior;. Alumnae. Cwens1 ini.Recreation. Iisil; - T!s« ol<i^r i{rlfi‘ar'3 iuvitCd t<>-
dinner, and.: an'.: after-diririer get-to­gether. Dean Green and Miss Win-Chester, ;adirtfler:fo^
.taçt.^lth'- ¡éâç.lji'. .pih.érl?L 'L
/ EDITOR^' .MEETING '
All Candidates 
May Witn ess 
Ballot Count
Innovation Introduced 
Under Supervision 
Of W. Carlson
RESULT TABULATION 
TO BEGIN AT 1:30
Eng. Scuote Vice-Prcsident 
Will Be Elected to Fill ;.
Present Vacaucv *' •
A total of 135 candidates fir»" 
seeking <13 officos- in the class elec­
tions which iako place,today from 
11:20 to 1:90 in the cuettrtnary poll'v 
Jut; places.. In* the Oollege of liln- . 
«Inhering a new vice-president. o,f 
Iho Senate will bo elected, to taiie. 
iho placo of Addison L. Gilmore, re­
cently numed president of Student/- 
council. ,
. This .is in accordance wltli .au 
‘elocllon ruling whlcli stutes, .V.yho,;- 
president of Student council, ,'tlje .
A complete, list of the nom|¿ 1 nees for class and school offlcfçni..'l will be.found on page fpur. .:;j
• Por the first, time In. recent years, candidates for offices, ara lòvited.'to - witness the counting of ;the' bailors; Ayhlph- will take, place In the Cliplé- tian - asBOclutlQii ; cluhroom,: Indiis-.' tries building. The counting w^H. begin at 1:30 o’clock today, This innovation in' tlie'politicar system^ at Garnogle was mn<jte-hy’ William S.: .CarlBon, ohalrman. of - ele]cliu>i'ft4% :- Six. psrsons :who' poMtiohod ;.for' officers ' were ' deiilaród ineligible : hecdufló' of 'failure to turh'-their-'ne. . tltlons ln on :tlmé. I- .: - >; i- .c. i1., ^
. Orily;:one,person-la to he voted .for' unless marked, differently on1 ljt,«
Wen Pay»e Opens 
Memorial Theatr^
Structure Commemorated 
Shakespeare’sWork : \
performance of Antony and €le* / patra.'
«Mr. Payne lB famil|ar to Carnegie- 
students for his dlrectlon of'ghak’e- spearian .plays lh the Uttle theater;: Last- fall he produced. Cbrigreye'0, ' 
-txys'for Lovt ^d.the-.Trolliui'iWd ; CressliSa'of Shakespearevln.the:'Xi’tr:- tie Hhi^ter3ft At s tfc* of . Progress, io Chicago,;: he',vigolfo—W Thomas .Wood < Stevens was iq charge: of. the Shalcespearo theater ^ which achieved considerable cess and which later went on touR^:- The production. of Antony and Cleopatra by Mr. Payne' waB .^ali,: by . one; English ' critic “to comping flecoratlve localization ^ith w;hat;,i3 ' thought, of. es Bllzabethan simplic­ity arid pace" and< VQulcfc to catcfi 
anil flrm^jQ, reT}derlng Bigplflc&ri'c&.^. of' each - kaieldoecoplc chMB.e^ scene .nnd mood.”
Dept, of Music- 
Presents Recitals
%
¦hM
Sunday evening the. Dspartmerit.f 'F-j of Music’will present Vii^ijiia Cein;--'-'’ -^ ’36, soprari'o/In a. recilal In the Lit-- tie theater. College of' Fliie ^rta at 30. Mathew Frey wiiraccomt)any ..:-J Miss Cedi on the piano:;The program is.as-iollows:, v . ;
Dobussey;-:. ..Paysage' sentimental:;; Fourdraln.. ¿. Chanson. NorveglenuèV
Schubert..... .Das Lied im Grupeij:'-
¦ MarlSSlIÎ. .Des Kindes GëbiMarx..Cornelius BrahamsIVJ. Vick O’Brien,....................... .¦. . .-.•. .v.To stay-at hoVné.is beef?: Gena, Dranscombe.'. :, ...Happlnegs-'^: Cyril Scott. .-/.. ;.......From i Afàri ?Walter Morse RummelVv^VE--1*^- '
ObservatoryDìreclórMi 
'Addresses CitmaiCÍubé
;^-Dr. Franfc iCii-iîordsrgy-dire-îÉôr^«^ tilt All ^h n * ohwr n(or> «IH ad«drees, tnè''Cltmas'-:èlnV!^«t .eyénln¿V4pHÍ/29,V.a^5:30¿^^Á^a fue ilt l1u1> r join ailjolnlug tbe rommone annex.Dr lord n «ili 1 rtur* on Th« .EXPMd[Bg.VWVerSe.V -Tlck«ts.»Â»*.î ,hé purchased- iñ. ^ ,.óíríl ChrÎB.îiànâssocIaüoh.ÿpèrspài able"’.to.: cpmé .to itth'é': phonetheiri

---------------------------------------------------

A.D
ariic (farnese ^Tartan
PHONE MAYFLOWER :Writers’ Row
> Aulpiprali —MCBA Editor__
A MODERN PARABLE
Mow there was in the land a great fam* ne; for the ruler of the people was weak. 
And the people reasoned with ¦ tbem- saylng: Surely we shall
NATIONAL ADVERTISING ¡SERVICE. 11 Wert Forty-second Streo'400 North pUchigao Aven
JULIAN P. MUNSTER
__HAROLD J.
Women’« ßporti 1 COPY EDITOR:
___MARGABET GfUFFIN.DUDMJV T>. PBNDf.KTON ___MARJORIE C. GREEN
JUNIOR EDITORS: Walt«r Adamson, Clifton B<rolelle.. "Evuna CheeGera»n. Irving ^Graber^ Emily Kramer.
REPORTERS :StLSis^8Bald*. ^Alphn” Black, Dorothy Booth, Toby Crws, Betty Fisher. Robert Francy, Katherine Gerrtbaa. Betty Gleason, Guy Holfertr. Jr., Betty Jane Herold. Lois Horner, Horl/cso Klngnbacker, Fred Livingston, William Lord. Eleanor Lowrcy. Alberta McClure. Sylvia Odle, Roth Pearl- nian. Sylvia Ravlck, ' Adelalde^Remliigton^EugjnlB
Albert Schwartz, John Shear, James Slewart, Gentveve Straeaaley, Joseph Thoraos, Paul Watson, Hath. Weller. Mary. York«, -Robert ziodinaa. < OrORTS STAFF: J. Scott' Chflrlei. JaxtreB^Hughei,
' 1 Euscne Kerciison, Paul Schwartz, Kjotl Lyogbelm. BUSINESS STAFF: Joe' Alton, Robert^Gi^ner, Jerome
Layton! Bolih MoCuteheon, Donald ^Joort. ^Hirtort
I Supon. Freder
F«lser, ' Id. Gandleman. Cl. L*ven, s. ¿even,“ Mitchell, A. Prondes, M. Roth, B. Westernmn ConmtBi L. Rtnlii. M..TYPISTS: Helen SickenberBrr, Marjorie WeiniMar? Lou Scblsycr.STAFF ARTISTS: C. Sue Fuller, Samuel Lit
i rise up and seek
i pass that-a message of
, CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert 1
A Stride Forward .P
ROGRESS -Was achieved in the holding of 
elections at Carnegie when William S.' 
Ciitlson, chairman of elections, annouuced that 
there would be an open counting of the ballots 
rtiU year. The invitation to sit In on the 
counting of the votes has been issued to all 
...candidates and although It Is likely that all 
will not take advantage of it, tbe option is 
nevertheless theirs.
This should, pvtl an end to the bickering tbat 
generally follows an election—and doubts as 
toils honesty; groundless or-otherwise, should 
.. *l»e> dispelled.
Previous ejections, although almost always 
fair; have usually had some shadow of doubt 
hanging over Botne particular part of them. To. 
prevent any irregularities from creeping in, It 
'was evident that something must be done with 
the casting of the ballots and tbe counting of 
the ballots'.
¦ ..Qtie-haif of ihe job bas nojv bees done. The 
jòttiér'h'aù; havlng'a/>ctosed :baÌlòt;vis'more dif­
ficult to accompliBh. but when it i6 done It will- 
b& the final step in perfecting the system of 
elections. Danger4 of stuffed ballot boxes and 
. campaigning around the polls still exists.
AVstrlde forward, however, has been taken 
• and due credit must be given to the elections 
. chairmen. The Tartan.ls particularly-gratified! 
- Wltb; thè move, because it accomplishes one. of 
tbé pointfl-lhat.-:it. had .advocated in Its plat-: 
form.
' Hailed.aa a.masterpiece in 1920, 'Pèfenc' Moloa r'g ,“Llliom'’ re- Ariiains,..la 1936,’a craCtemanllke lit­tle play' with excellent acting par.ts, ¦Ever, since its flrat production, peo­ple" have tried to discover in . “LU* iom’î.eooie deep human significance ,’tliat:W0uld lend It universal appeal. :Molnai-does -verÿ: skillfully suggest •such. an underlying meaning, but : close! examination reveals it to be nttthldR more, thin a suggestion. ::V£illom”. Is a skillfully, concocted - 'combination :.of 'all sorts'of .ingredi- . .ohts?T&'bit'of social criticism, a bit l Of charicter analysis, à bit of phil- ;/Os6'phlzing—but,notr)ore. than
dure privation, another leader who is able to discern the signs, of the times, and can guide us, and keep us against misfortune.
And as the time of election drew.nigh, • behold, there journeyed from the east a smiling citizen, clothed in tbe garments of the people, .with a bow of promise on biB
And It greeting went before blra.Now this pleased the people very much, and they thought within themselves: Here is a ruler indeed—a man of cheerfulness who speaks of strange new things: of i and liguors; of lands ;
themselves, they sit- teth bim down on tbe throne.And stralgbtway lie calletb the people together, and ordered their treasures to be exhumed; then he.setteth up a seer to watch over the crops and divide them, that all might have; and be appointed a guar­dian for the people’s .money; and he can- celled many debts and delivered up the debtors; and furthermore, he taxed tbe rich that the, poor might live.Then gave be the people rich wines and liquors that they might drown theJr sor­rows and rejoice.And when lie had finished his plan, it was good in tbe'eyes of tbe people; and the people loved him. And be ruled for
But.In the accomplishing of the second year, one rose iip against bim.. For there also lived- in»ihat country a braggart with a tongue smooth as honey; ¡and after he bad subjected the people in Ills own slate he journeyed to the city and 6at. among the counsellors.- And it came to pass that he contrived the downfoll of tbe ruler, and cried aloud against the works which be bad done.• And some there were that listened to him and wondered tbat the promised
forsook their rightful ruler.And it came lo pass that a. second, rose up out of the land:to turn the people’s heads (a certain priest ' wlio was pos-
In the name of the Lord he called the multitudes together and preached blasphe­mies and all manner of lies unto them.Me stopped up to their ears and blinded their eyes agalttst wisdom: and many there be tjiàt followed him.But the smiling ruler smiled on and did not heed the folly of his people.Now there was at that time a message of good-will to "all nations» within the house of'the lord ruler, which was'as a branch of'olive to-the world—an'a£reemerit->of,j
But when-tbe parchment came before
r-t¿^Vj.he-á^e^í^tft¿^fd^B^red> say- ¦ Í n g : T* Awaké;7ÍBoutbät"rsT%epest~ abd —
C. JE. Horizon
AT GENEVA
: first take off' your ar*
ng about tbe futui -Eighty per cent, ardent for the Fascist State, ten per cent, cloudy In mind and Irreso­lute, ten per cent, for a political and social or­ganization of enlarged -Individual liberty.Virtually. 100 per cent, for world pacification on the" basis'of . the Inviolability, so far. as practicable, of racial, national, and territorial Integrities.These are probably as nearly the lineaments of the young Italian academic mind of tbe mo­ment as one con get.To sound this mind, or any other segment of Italian feeling and thought, is far less easy than tbe like task in France, England, tbe United States. Everyone speak9 with marked restraint, unless, indeed, the utterance be wholly noncrltical of the regime which, .by common consent, has done so much for Italy, morally, politically, materially, in the laBt fif­teen years.
Guarded Crltlelsm However, the voice of cautious criticism as not quite Btlll. in the beautiful mountain-bound and sea-bound peninsula, with its steadily ris­ing sense of European and 'world responsibili­ties. important alike to Itself and to other nations. Moreover, this voice appears to be considerably franker than it used to be; franker, certainly, than it was a decade ago. Criticism belongs to intellectual vigor, especi­ally, young Intellectual vigor; end of this type of vitality Italy clearly has her full share-anced units of "humanity.
turn to the fields. For thus aaitb the lxird . of Hosts:
The sun and the moon shall he darkened, and. thou ahalt be • brought to utter desolation,-lest thou forsake - 
*rr'not-vaii. prophesy- ;’•
•;--:And spm^' i^theipèopieheaxd-notat-all;' - -and aome -of-the-people-lieard'"&'nd "return-:.ed. to their drunkenness; and someofrtfte^: ^.gedple heard and kept watch in;- thjf^elq^ -SI 
Cl SUE FUI^ERl-
On Second 
Th$|jji-glit
' By Emily Kramer
THE-SKIIBOHDBO
- Pacifists all over the world 
breathed a prayer last week for the 
success of tbe.Stresa, conference, 
whose- purpose was ostensibly the 
preservation of ‘ peace in. Europe. 
This week the .world qeems in more imminent danger of war than before that series of diplolions. Apparently i ______than pacifist prayers was necessary to make it successful.Although it is- too soon to discover all of what happened at that par­ley two events of :the past week are perfectly clear—the resolution of the Council of the.League of Na­tions and. Herr Hitler's pointed re' oudiatlon or it,-. Neither can under any possible Interpretation be call­ed a move tor., peace? Rather tbsy ooint directly to the too well-known situation of dn “armed camp," with . tbe .' campers waiting watchfully for an opportunity to spring -forth to. their mutual di striictlon.. v-Wttbout a certain per­spective, we.: cannot judge of the relative importance of these two events, .butiwe can see quite clear­ly tlie direction toward which tbey tend.. , /Undoubtedly there was a good deal of tightening of alliances be­hind the scenes at Stress. Europe,
persist in them nevertheless. .. almost an accepted fact nowadays that peace conferences meet to ro- iportion armamentB; the paradox 
completely.Ignored. Even Russia's pleas, for . real disarmament arc growing weaker.'national diplomats scurry about to various secret conclaves, talk politely, sign agreements. All Jt with a mixture of Impatience
places. That It is inevitable ver questioned; Diplomatic ences have become somewhattj clcal, certainly helpless and in­sincere: Any peace conference that meets to discuss the proportion ot .ments Is undoubtedly inBln- since It does not even believe In Its own avowed purpose.Diplomats are-.-'sadly in need of something- much more tangible and owerful than pacifist prayers. Hitler’s recent decree.that death i the fate" of :all those who con- Inue to spread .propaganda for eace during .wartime or even dur- ]g a <-rlEis Is a warning -well worth heeding, it proves conclusively] that all .the talk about a coming t—1
’That'H-'is'not inevitable, that it can' be overcome In some way Is the 'fervent belief of - those rbb' are slacerely* working :to pre-
Women make' itf per cent of the
atteppptdf it i tfei?Bmuggl£.-articlesi^TtiieT^'enlted -,Stated ?—
HOLIDAYS took a lot of the boys and girls back to t,beir home 
town loves ... . those who bung.around managed to celebrate 
with and without . . . reverberations from Clyde St. seem to 
Indicate that the bros are reluctant to put the tuxes back in the 
moth balls • . ¦ after borrowing the partially clean shirts of 
the absent members, the Delts polished on the late winter social 
season with a Formal Easter Dinner . . . somebody told us that 
the menus were in Freneh . . - Saturday night Duke Ellington 
and the moon made an ideal. combination for dancing . . . 
“Mitch” Mltcbener and tbe embryo—Beetle Annabelle Crowell 
enjoyed It . . . Bob Greiner, B. M. O. C. of tbe Betas, still with 
Helen McCrea ... a bright Easter Sunday brought out Jim 
Latta in full regalia to head the-Farade . . .- incidentally, is Jim 
still Cainpeing? v
THE SUN -SMILED favorably on Freshman-Dramat Fran Tlegel, 
seen frequently of late' with Boss Kissel, when sbe landed a lead 
In the new.Freshman production.
SOMETHING NEW in the way of nite club entertainment was 
presented by Marie Motter and Mildred Cox last Saturday eve 
. . . the rotund and highly polished proprietor of the Stratford 
Club is convinced that the. patrons waut classical stuif ... if 
you don’t believe it, ask him.'
CONVERSATION OVERHEARD in Margaret Morrison—accord-, 
ing lo two of Maggie Murph'e loveliest. Bill Holiday is tbe man 
of the hour .. . . “and he’d make an Ideal husband.”
PRIDE OF THE Beta Pi’s, Olive Roberts, Is reported to be 
engaged . . . ex-Dragon Ira Kuhn is the lucky man .. . . we 
wonder where Ira will buy tbe ring , . . two others that have 
fallen are Kappa Slg. Kay Burns and Eleanor Clemenson . . . 
while on the subject we add to the growing list other successful 
college courtships . . . Jane Anderson-Purlty Paul Pheneger 
. . . Jane Foller-Happy Pappy Allan . . . Clara Weller-Johnny 
• Davis. A stooge reports that other combinations with possibili­
ties are . . . Burke-Wettack . . • Goodrldge-Waggoner . . . 
Knapp-Shultz . . . Munster-Dower . . . Daua-Nlchol . . . Lewis- 
Archer . . . just wait until after graduation . . . then we’ll see.
Credit for one of the best of recent witticisms goes to Beta Sig 
Irv Gruber, who swears he heard an Architect reply when they 
found him under one of the Schenley tables, "I’m just waiting for 
a Side-Car.”
AND AS. IF IT ifADE. any .difference, tbe intramural mushball 
games.were postponed because-tbe-field bad not been rolled '. . . 
no matter how smooth you make It the boys . are-.still ..going to 
catch them on the chin.
FIRST TIME in the history of competitive sports, tbe two last 
place teams are/fighting it out for first place . . in the Bridge 
Tournament, with only- three Houses left In one league^ tbe S. A. 
vE.'a won, but- had to forfeit theli\ victory because'-¡of . suspension - 
-from Inlerfratenilty council .- .-.so tbe PIKA’s and the.S. P. E.’i
both tied for. last j 
damn thing.
On< Other 
Campuses
t place, go to to- aee /who’a. goln^ -to. -w^n.-the^
HOSTILITIES SUSPENDED
University of Maryland faa-sm; 
—Following a week's pitched bau 
lie between President Raymond m6 
Pearson and' the stude'nts of tha University, precipitated bv publication of . a front-page »¿i torial in the Diamondbaek, stadeni newspaper, criticizing the dent’s administrative policies w tilities have temporarily ceased as both parties await action by thB Board of Regents. 8
In a letter to Marshall Mathias editor of the. Diamondbaek, Dr’ Pearson warned M&thias that ha would “be held strictly account, able” for the publication of any editorial or news. ^ items that do “not conform to the generally acs cepted standards of decency, wslb taste, aDd Sound judgment."
In his weekly message appearing In the April 1 issue of the Diamond, back. Dr. Pearson stated that he “regrets the publication of the ed­itorial because it is filled with fo. •eot statements and . inBlnna.
WHALE HUNTINGUniversity of Maryland (MCEÀ) —“A de,id whole or a swampeii boat" was the motto of old-time American whaling crews, accordìo» to Chester Howland, noted leclur. »r, In his talk on whnle-hunling- her© last Wednesday.Howland, himself tbe son of s' New-Bedford whaling captain, sii<r that, contrary to the general belief the harpoon ,is not th^ weapon used for killing ‘ tl\e whale. ' Il ij used merely- to'get a line on'tbe whale .and the actual damage is done by a small, sbarp, spoon- shaped Instrument that Is thrown with deadly accuracy into the heart of the whale."Of alt the animals that bare ever lived, the whale is mo6t colos- . sal,” said the son of the New Eng.I land whaling captain. “It is far 1 larger tbc-n &ny dinosaur that let- rifled our ancestors.”The early whalers have added greatly to - the world’s ltnowledgs of jjéogrftphy, according to How. land, through their voyages over uncharted seas, new lands .were touched on and over 400 new l¿ lands were discovered and name!
MORONS ARE BEST-DANCING PARTNERSSyracuse Un i vèràily - ’( tí CEA ) — A.clase iircriminology recently dis­covered that, 'when':-dancing, It '.maltes little ' dlfférèbife* *whethèr ft««'™ partner is a’’ genius or o‘ . i. Morons, tbe class discov­ered, are endowed with a sense of rhythm, and most of them áre ex­cellent dancers. On the daoce floor, they, appear almost nomai. -;
Columbia ' reporters ' queatloned people on >the streets and found .tbat òjlth 0l;sl3t VitiBlfelfeaiifeW collège students Vére loafers,
;b£'naturalism and expressionism', fantasy and realism, sordldness and Vpbetry, which in most hands of a ^-.iefls • skillful playwright might have .•'become a^xnere tawdry showpiece.' .. Jf we are content to dismiss the ' search for hidden meanlngsi as un- ^¿eceqs_ary_and. judgejthe. play '•face.'yalue, we find it to be i i ipg iittle. drama, simply told, incon-elstént in places, but éíteclí — -----the' whole j The Little theater pro­duction caught admirably tbe essen* I .tial .pathos of this story of a Buda-| -:,pest rufDlan whose good Intentions -Vgkve way to his rough impulses, I V.vjrhose love for his gentle little wife I i leads him to beat her, to rob ber, I Vand.’Anally to kill himself wlth.berl . flame'on lils lips.
'"Liliom" offers considerable ditll- .v culties:'for tbe producer—principal­ly; those of malting less obvious the] Various inconsistencies of tlier'play| .¿itself.' In. this the Drama depart- 'i^ent was fairly • successful, even though' the first night audience h
aunt Mother Hotluiider spoke with a trace of an accent, the other spoke sometimes with perfect cor | redness and sometimes in the. less slang that would be character­istic of their kind. Llllom, John Kennedy, was finely, and symp: tlietlcally portrayed in all of bis bravado and essential .childlike helplessness; while his wife Julie, JJ&Ui -L.i.ttell, — •• *
charm and pathos—Llliom'S; Tough- and Julie’s spirituality.
Of the lesser- character. Mrs. Muskat, played by Mary Hubley.
; preser >mpre < œCtlv«IV
Margaret Goldberg, was as gay and| boisterous , a country glrl as could wish contrasted with' Julie, [ hut she seemed at times to be < consciously „coquetting ^with the I laudience—gain favor she did,. but I not always in the best interests of| i he play , itself. - Mother Hollunder; Leanore Blsslnger, was an entirely convincing sharp-tongued but kind-1 ly. old woman, stooped with age; r until she was belied, as she walk- tbe stage, by a pair of In- Blinple ond in keeping [credibly high aHm-heels appearing
less elaborate sets lively designed-and shifted with ^unaccustomed rapidity; the
w>th the mood ot tbe whole thé ^lights':;: were . excellently - handled 
i ^The .prologue and fourth In. particular were very fln - projogne with - its shadow - carrousel L»nd> gaily colored moving - throug ^e*pr©BBed vtbe- gay carnival spirit 'intended by the author. - - - -
ihe Little theater- production-
To anxiety...! bring
r* jÉuc^S&áke
: I am made only of the choice center leaves The top leaves are 
bitter, biting. The bottom leave6 are gntty, tough and unpal­
atable. My fragrant, expensive center leaves—so mellow and 
nch^give you the m^lde^ best-tasDng smoke. I do not irritate 
your throat. To ^anxiety >I^bnng relief. I-m your best fnend. ^

---------------------------------------------------

THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
BY JERRY HANSON
VElW* LITTLE DOING HEREABOUTS while you were vacationing 
Henrion broke into priut in “Sports. Stew—Served Hof' with.his 
uciure and the story, of how hie grandmother almost*put the kabosh on 
lis promising football career . . “Whistler” Giolma took ,h1gh score 
Hjpnors as tbe Tartnnthinly-clads won from P. A. A. . . .'and frosh P. 
1£ d. Bob iCavlen, the Dormout Flash, nabbed equally laudable, honors 
Andy Krltscher convalesced after the knee operation which will 
a much needed loop star onto the Tartan floor next year ... 
tlodest A1 Broadhead, rifle captain, plugged mightily for the team dur- 
iflg tiie dinner hour on last 'Wednesday’s Quarter Hour . . . released 
«me interesting statistics: the team won 82 per cent of its matches 
[bis year (what other team can boast the same?) . . . the “ten" ring 
0D a rifle target Is .13 Inch In diameter ... kinda small at a'flfty- 
(oot range . --¦ incidentally, ex-captnin Mellingeris claimed the best 
sbot the school has ever seen . . , A track 'meet has been scheduled 
«¡tli Wayncsburg for May 8'to replace the cancelled W. & J. :
Carnegie golfers will play Grove City on Saturday, probably ot 
¡be Field Club ... An Oklahoma boy, Coffman, bent Glenn Cunning- 
barn iu tlie Kansas decathalon championships . . . Glen Dawson also 
beat Ibe famous one, in his favorite middle distance . . - the race 
«i0w—much be.low Cunningham’s record time
Women’s Athletics
by Margie Green
Since this Is probably a “let’s- 
Ik-uboul-the-weatber” week in the 
bole sports field in general, I may 
3 well do niy bit of filling up 
as have someone else do it
First of all, to get the most ex­
citing topic off my mind,- I’ll cover 
vollevball ''doings.”. Lib rey reports n very satisfactory oi’t for the first and only prac­tice so far, last Tuesday. There e just enough players to keep gome going, although a few sub- itcs would have been a wel- Wmc asset io relieve the constant mental and physical strain of Che ¦flrst" team.” The Thursday and Friday practices were . called off because of inclement weather con-
Ali yon Frod.Allen amateur stars join. iorceB with the various M. M. C. C. classes (and Arts School, also, you can fludi aJQj,)\at :the W. A. ... Awards party. * You'llrhave’ am-' pie opportunity to try your talent, be.lt Good or "bad—especially If It’s ‘ id. The entertainment will he
based,on a. psychological experi­ment to prove our theory, -’a* few hand-shaken may lead to success.'* We realize tbat the more hopeless you are, the more encouragement 
v[wjM need to .reach Broadway,
etructed not to waste it on the pop­ular amateur, for he Is well on his way, and • can. take a-few heckles.
take place on Wednesday, May.l„in the Women’s gyni, from 4 Hòl»6 o’clock. Betty Mickey is in charge
purpose of the affair) will be pre­sented to all who have qualified specified number of points .in
. A. pin; 400 points, class numer*
been*'distributed' ‘-(whenever may bo), this award will be celled, because of the additional Jacket award for the 1,000 points.
Carnegie Exhibition Day lo
Local Schools Compete 
For First Time In 
Team .Tòìirney
mal exhibition, lo tournament will be held the Tartan range. This is the first icirnament of its type ever to be I'tld in the Pittsburgh district, and ill inaugurate a series of itUUona ior a trophy donated by P. Mitchell, manager of the Competitions Division of the Na- onal ritflc association.Tl>e trcphy will go to the schol- slice entry which wins it the mosl lumber of tlmeg ,,in. nln.f ., yews, ach year, the wlnu<jriof\the com- Million-will be awarded the-pos- of tlie ci}[> for a period of if, until the nine-year period
fa In the high .schools of this dia- ncli and many of1 the local schools "e preparing to ssier tteanas..S tlie schools are even entering.
e lo count. Eligibility is open any bona fide student of the ¦Sh school entering , the team., tonipeiition wili' be' governed by regulation National.Rifle asso- wion rules. The.target will be a bull a eye gallery target, 15- |ring, at -fifty feet from the flr- S line. Competition will consist 
sl„i*° tareets of two sighting “ i ten for record in the . . .¡ition. The match will-beiJ-l?- one shot per minute . or minutes per target; Um'e-be- callod for a! full’ order at one time? competition
for the high schoolThe sro
ftigfitol —We're o Vrt snooty about ounlrov^ ing lnks^chorte-oftfte 
best draftsmen for fhe 
last 54 years. Give 'em 
i tumble I 1 ..i>
CHA5 M.-HIGGINS « COw Inc. Ht Ninth j0 IreohW^N. Y.
HIGGINS'
h American
C.JEHo EHri
rifle ‘ tournament ' will be Sgt .R. C. Sommer, rifle coach of Carnegie*: .crack varsity team. Ties will be broken* by tbe lowest ..individual 3c0>eAr^h^,lyirtg.!teains”that’'teajii' having tho-loweat individual i drajJplng.-otitof thé tie-in favtrf of tlie other. This method of settling ties places a premium .oh consis: tency and team strength rather than on individual strength. • 
Besides the trophy awarded to the -winning team, a silv« medal will be given to the highest
bronze medal each. The medalsi will-be facsimiles of the trophy.
Teams have been entered , foi the Exhibition Day ahoot fromythe Perry- High’’Rifle club, Taylor Al- dordice - High ' School, Donnont High School, iMunhairHigh Schbol, Brentwood High School, Taventum High School, and South Fayette
......STUDENTS
WANTED
Five hundred 'Typewriters, all -makee^ Portables .and “ Standards, soid.^renteaV f®- palred. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five, months..
American Writing
Machine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5480 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND_____
Tech Host To 
4Y’ Champions
National Contest Brings 
.. Stars to Home Pool
d,­ -litsgtmitg
Tea Out-of-State Branches 
Represented by Teams
,TUe swimming pool of Carne_ Institute-^ Technology will be The scene of the Thirteenth Internation­al Y. M. C. A. indoor swimmingi April 26 and îchampionships Tbe championships ‘will be sored liy tlie Physical Education committee. National Council of Y. M. C. B6wyo and supervised by the Swimming Club o£ the Dowutow Y. M. C. A. This marks the fir* time the event has been awarded t Pittsburgh. Entries for the i
a score of cities in all parte of the United. States.
• -Twelve Events Competition will be'in 12 events, as follows: 200-yard relay (4 200-yard breast stroke, 50-yard free
fancy d:300-yard medley relay 
100-yard back stroke, breast stroke, and 100 yard free
each event, .relays included, permanent cup will be awarded tbe team scoring the highest' number
fourth place, 2. All other will give 5 points to first plo.ee; second, 3; third, 2; and fourth, 1
- Risedorph Referees
Allen. E. Risedorph, head swim­ming coach of Carnegie, will act as refereefor.the swlmmiDg champion­ships. Other Carnegie persons who will officiate are Prank A. Eyman and Prank- W.> Moses, timers, and Charles who will be'Clerk oi V. Kennard, of the Metropoliton club,:will be starter, and Louis C. Schroeder of the Pittsburgh Bureau ..............belief ofof Recreation Judges. ' Allen E. Risedorph will also be diving referee. R.-J. Hor­ton of Detroit, Mich., and Dr. JohnBrown, Jr., are chairman and__rotary respectively of the National Swimming committee. W. T. Rowe, of the. Pittsburgh Downtown Branch,-Y.-M. -C,vA.,.ia-Dl^ector-of Championships.
Many Contestants 
Entries,'totaling 103 contestants
branches, 1.0 of theBebeing <State 'of ¦PennBylvanl^.' '/fearas are. listed from San Franci'sco. Cal., Lincoln^ !Neh., Akron O., St. Louis, Mo., West Side Branch, New York, N. Y., Fort Wayne, Ind., Montclair; N. J., Center Ave. Branch, Pitts­burgh, Pa.,' Allegheny Branch, ¡Pittsburgh,. Pa., . Johnstown, Wllkes-iBarre,. Pa,, 'Gfeenshurg; Pa., Altoona, Pa., -Lawson-Depart­ment," Chicago, 111., "Wheeling, W. •Va., Huntington, Ind., Norristown;- Pa., and Downtown Branch, Pitts­burgh,. Pa. - Additional teams are expected to be-entered from But- falo, N. Y., Washington, D. C., Cam­den, i6 J., Cleveland, O., and De­troit, Mich.
The preliminaries will start at 7:30. p., ni. on Friday, and the finals at 8:15 p. m. on Saturday. A general admission fee of 45 be charged each night.
as you would choose. 
afnend
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa..
expensive lo telephone far 
' away friends*/Actually* few 
pleasures costas little^ You 
can call 100 miles /or 35 
cents; 300 miles for 80 cento; 
1,000 miles for: $2.00 
by Statiôtt tfl 
Night Ratee (effectíve after 
8:30 P> M. Standard Time)«
Th« Bell Telephone Company ol Pennsylvani.
Carnegie Takes First 
Outdoor Track Meet 
In Local Competition
Tartans Defeat P. A* A., 
To Tune of 66-49 V 
As Season Opens
GIOLMA, CAMBLOR 
S,TAR FOR TARTANS
Strength Points tq Close 
Competition in Meet 
With West. Beserve: .
The Carnegie cinder stars won 
their* (first encounter of the seo: 
son, Saturday against the P.-À.' 
A. This^meet was only a practice' 
meet, and is an annual event. Both 
teams were somewhat bumpered by 
the absencte of. several of thëir 
best performers, but in spite (ft this Tael both teams showed up tb 'a good advantage, ,acd kept the com­petition keen. The final , score of. the meet wa^ 66-49 iu favor of the Tartans.Meet Reserve Saturday This meet whs the. first real workout for ihe Scottish runners, for due to the handicap which they' have had in the ’form of bad; weather, they had not had suffir­ont . practice-tr* warrant- time, trials. However, the meet was ;very‘.neco'8-' sury since the Tartans' have their first Intercollegiate meet with Western Reserve next Saturday. Sovèral ot the boys had gone home Cor thé Eastern vacation, but a ma­jority of the team was present, and the meet was very successful.Several of the boys for Carnegie wore particularly, outstanding, be­cause‘of the showing which they made. Prank Giolma, co-captain of the team, was the star- in'his events, tnkiiig firsts iti both the 220-'and the -440. Camblor was al- so outstanding,, talcing firsts In.the 100-yard dash, and in the broad Jfimp.Here’s the Tally120-yard low hurdles—Peresenyi, T. A. A., first; Dldomlnico, Camo- 
gle, second. Tim'100-yard dash- ; Perlna,Carnegie, third.10.4.:
Tim
___,-M.organ, P. A. A., -first*-Koch, Carnegie,.second; McMahon, 
Carnegie, third. Time—4.60. -- • 440-yard dash—Giolma, Carnegie, first; Beall, Carnegie, second; Lud-. ViS.vP: -A-'-A.r tlilrd.--. .aUm6rr5ft.9.
P..A. A., third. Time—10,5.9.'if.220-yard. dash.—Giolma, Carneglp» 
first; ; Dernier,- >. A. A., aecomii
Connors, Carnegie, third. . Time—
Tim«
Shot put—Pereseuyi, P. -A. A., first; Hall, Carnegie, second; Boyd, .Carnegie, third. Distance—35 feet,
—11 feet.« Dlècus—Karlin, .Carnegie, first; Hall, Carnegie, second; Cross, Car­negie,. third. ^Distance—114 feet.
A. A., third.- Distance— i52-feet, 4 Vg inches.Broad- jump—Xamblor, Carnegie, first; Porinu, Carnegie, second; Demler, P. A. A., third. Distance-
Ball Games 
Start Today.
Last Week’s Contests 
Await Time Change
Due to the pre-vacation weather, 
alt those. games ^scheduled to be 
played before today are postponed indefinitely until the advent of Day­light Saving time, which will lengthon the evening light so that u doubling up of the schedule may be Accomplished. Except for tho postponed games, the schedule will remain the same.
• Mush activity on tho campus has ex)>crlcncod a decided case of the doldrums during tbe entire past week; first due to the particularly prohibitive naturo of the wcgthei
Despite the balmy weather which the Pittsburgh district had while the students wero vacationing,
New Tartan Plebe Coach 
Will Fill Long-felt Need
Ex-Pitt Star and All-American Can Boast of Long 
i Expérience as P.igskin Player and Coach 
fPi.'h Several’Grid-minded Schools
When Tom Davies takes c 
duties on the coaching staff at Car^ 
negle next fall, he will bring with 
him many years ot experler.ee, both as a. coach and' as a player, football career began when he tered Pitt, la 191S and went out for a position on one of the first rate teams in the couuti-y. In th days the game was not so reflnet today, and.umuy more things w allowed timu now. Under tills gimo he turned in one of the best records ever made at the Oakland school. He .was All-American from PUt in 1916. The war changed the
i freshmen when it i
in 1910 Davies rotumed to play, and lu 1920 and 1921 he was named on the second All-American teams. Parke puvls, one cf the better known authorities on tho history of football, does not hesitate to call Davies one of the most versa-
tile.and dependable backs of all time.
When Davies finished at Pitt, ho coached at both-Allegheny and Ge­neva. The caliber of the teams be turned out there is an'evidence o£ the help that he can give Carnegie's
somewhat, for there the adminis­tration was not in favor of; over« publicized athletics. Although ho was working ngulnst such odds, he managed to turni out teams that won about a half of their games. .
At Carnegie Mr. Davies will take 
charge of the freshman sciuad.1n.tha 111 have Cllit Doloway
material coming up in next ye freshman class.' Carnegie football expects to see a .great deal of im* provement as the result of having oxperlenced coach for .tho
WITH MILD.MELLOW

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE T^K
• THE 
CARNEGIE 
P LAI D
&Ä Inïtital* fo.A» vlvwa or opinion* opna«4 in th« edlto- xUI ‘»hnnn ._C not Beoeuwlly eMoj*«! br th* Editorial Boirdft Hb DW Sclsovl
WALTER J. NOIGOT . Staff:E. E-'-WHITE WILLIAM E. HAKE GENEVIEVE SCHOLTZ DAVID 0. DAVI 9
Contribute«: _ ^
Mildred G«r*on ReUaLahr
A Good Choice
Council has done well inre-elect- 
Jng Arthur C. Grimm to the office of 
President ot Night Student coun­
cil. Nothing is more essential to the welfare of the students than n man in this office capable of decid­ing the beet policies. Mr. Grimm is iuet such a man and council is to-be congratulated on giving him the opportunity to continue the du­ties he assumed in mid-term or this
^A^worker, a builder and a student who has long been interested in the advancement of the night classes, Mr. Grimm is well fitted for the position and we confidently expect him to give the student good serv­ice But the chief reason why the choosing of Mr. Grimm is gratify:. ine is because be can be depended on to say “No” when asked to In­dorse unwJse appointments and acr
tl0The Plaid joins the students in wishing him success and assuring him their sincere cooperation.
The Future
¦With national recovery being dis- cUBsed every day it is interesting to.'ebmpare the principles proposed lor the future with .those of the past, and endeavor to determine whether these n6w principles are . leading us up the road to a fullelr
us the laws of', gravitation or of i physics. They began with the be- glnhibg of- human society; .they- will.contlnue to its end. By build- • ing^upon correct principles, small peoples, have become mighty na­tions.; By replacing right princi­ples by wrong ones, mighty nations and beautiful civilizations have . vanished from the earth.:• We have no right to believe that we will react differently today to certain, principles • and certain phenomena than yre have reacted- in all previous time, orthat the re- ' .suits of a specific influence will be different today than they have been .-miny times in the past.; : . The future is certainly up; to the- people. Many unsuccessful experl- r ffienis "have' been"tried-intbe his­
tory of this, nation. • Our future• will undoubtedly, depend . upon ' whether -the 'Airierican: people con­tinueto.be glided -by. the princi-.• pies which have < motivated this na-
meet a need which had been manifesting- itself. During tbe pur­suit of a course, especially when the completion thereof required a period of several years, tbere is bound to develop an ' Irregular schedule.' Jn order to saliefy these
immediately after tbe regular sipns ended. The majority of the iubjects are given on Monday, 'Wed­nesday, and Friday evenings which
Saturday evening conflict.At the present Ume plane are be lng formulated for this year’s Inter
NIGEJFLIGHTS
ÿQnnger;brbthel^\Jji9, whtfvjDobs foür.y:;ÿeàffl;:/oIdèt,v;tÉian ^élttier • (I ¦ fcà^'tvgët-oVçir'ttj!¦-.r-i.•. Eal K;”•’
'•.iB»^'Qwn:v'.^B; ^bie-^^rdv.bf'.^il* hifisborg.1. Hè cah .fliid a short-cut . '•when driving’ between ' any . points in Pittsburgh •, . . .• Lots of people would like to close the book on that Pa#e . . . Big• companies are competing for Mac McGowan's new invention, a dou­ble-duty stoker which throws , the aBhee back Into the furnace In the summertime to cool the house! If looks very much like'. Ed WbJteV. Invention of a watering can without1 holes for those people who don’t feel like watering anything would have to take a back seat! ...• 'ï’hosp fnuny noises- in the Arts BcboQl that Gonnd like a contented /•cow are merely tüë boya'in i.iie '^draughting room discussing- the ! new book “The Island of Mu’’ . '. ., Bob Graham flew back from Chica- •go Saturday night and he 'still feels '¦ up- iv the air . . . Theme song .-. lately proposed by a . Carnegie ‘ night student of design'— ••••;‘•Life Is real, life is earnest S; /.'And it might be made sublime .. If we were not-kept busy.Doing home-work all the time!. Professor Schmerta broke .that] - New Year’s resolution and: smoked ' /¿' stogie last week.:. . . We offer vAI Bleumle as C. II T.’s authority on• ^'What the Well-Dressed. Man will;..wearv / The cream of this ¿-week’s crop.- Instructor: "Whathas been done 'In this vicinity . -.•preserve, wild'life?;'• Herb Stoi -^'.'Weii we; hold dances every Satur- -; day nlght at Thistle Hall.** ’
FOR RENT
FIVE-ROOM HOUSE 
Bath and.Garage. 
6202 Woodlawn Place 
Call MAyflower 3560
^SQUIBSEL HILL 
BABBER SHOP6828 FORBES STREET
Historical Highlights 
...of...
Night Student Council
Inter-Night. College 
Dance Also A Tradition
Council Gives 
Dance May 4
Prizes Will Bè Awarded 
Best Posters
From a review of the historical highlights pertaining to the early years -of Carnegie as regards 'the
hoary niche In the activity annale ' our campus.
Another function which has an historical background, thought
The social committee,In collabor­ation with.the social.chairman and his assistant are^piittlng the finish­ing^ .touches to the'plans-' for -the coming Tnter-Nlght college ; dance. Thé event will be held May 4, in Thistle hall and will bring to a close the social functions ot tbe night group for the current year. - 
' Will Click and his orchestra have been engaged to provide the music for the . affair. These mu- Biclans have uppeared at several night functions,»their latest engage­ment having been tbe Pbi Mu Alpha Slnfonla dance.. The reputation ofl
has been fortunate in securing Its
The committee has promised something unusual In tbe mauner of decorating tbe hall. Palms and ‘ferns wJH be .used to complete the setting which will be indicative of spring. Novel programs In the form of a souvenir will> be distributed to those in attendance nt this affair.In keeping with a policy institut­ed last year the' present council Is sponsoring a poster contest among the night students~to advertise this dance. All night students except members of council are eligible to
The posters should be of a'unl- form size. 11 by 14- vertically, and should contain the. following read­ing matter: “Nigh Student Council Inter-Night College I>ahce, Thistle Hall, May 4. dancing 9 to 12. Will
The arrangement of the reading matter is left to the student com­peting ond the number of posters
C-401
E-20E-21E-43
C-54
C-109C-110C-351C-402
C-423C-425C-432
C-4C21-7201-7401-7601-780
Twenty-Ninth Open House 
Exhibition Planned for Fri.
R. Q. Tf C. Parade Precedes 
Evening Program; All 
Shops Are Open
(Continued From Page One.) . Performances of “Aladdin’s Lamp^ 
and the “Doll Shop” will be repeat­
ed at frequent Intervals during the 'ening.
The Department of .Costume Economics wtfl repeat the spring ityle show,, which, was recently glyen.at.Kaufmann’s. It_ will be given in the afternoon' at 3:'30'1f6i*' the public; school pupll8,;f:and:'for; outsiders; atrgjOOvinvth^evening.' The show-, w.ill.be^givejif in.,the Men’s gymnailum^ywhich will., be decorated through .’the courteay of Mr.. Kimberley,;.; Instructor In. the |^epartm6nt of ;t»rainft.'. y-f '.J. 
Textile 'Analyela^to Be Shown jn the Costume Economic laborar •torles, the .sophomor^ students “will give' demonstration'sof.; textile analysis^Vand on the^eecond floor studios work In all>phaseavof design; will be shown,..:' 'As in previous.years,,th'e».fresh- ¦_ cooking class 'of the Dep’art-
lng the evening. In another labora­tory Miss Glendoh Is planning to have, a nutrition exhibition, and ii
Exhibitions by the Departments of Music, Drama, Architecture, Sculpture, and Painting and . De­sign will be offered by the College' Of Fine Arts.The freshman class in the De­partment of Drama wlll present the famous morality play, “Everyman,” in ' two evening ' performances ' at 8:30 and 9:30 lu the Little theater. There will also be shown- a problem, lestage llçhtinç on the flrat floor and exhibits of ecenè models 'both on the'mezzanine ffoor-and fn the .exhibition room adjoining the; trance, to the theater. Groups wlll backstage ‘of the .theater where students of the'department
Û.S, EDi™
PRINTER 6170 Monitor Street
The Department i rill display;outBtan mitted during' the past year In the main exhibition room and the corrl- >r on the second floor;
In the sculpture studio, regular
In casting and composition.
8:00 and 9:00; and individual classes in- the studios during the .afternoon...There ,-.VlU.. aljo..be_an orchestra rehearsal in the • exhibi­tion ..room., .. 4 riu. -Painting Classes to^Be;-In.'Session• -The--Department ot Palntiq^.a^d Design will, have, ^classes in .'paint- |ng,: etching, and'hloc^^prlntlngion the third and foûrth. flo'orfl of the Arts.- building; ^nd.-in.-th.ë, basement the .Crafts <jtepartjtfent-flr|ll work on jewelry, métal-wèr&'¦' 'and pottery, The work of the industrial .DeeigO classes will ;be on; display in the smalj exhibition room.. •• SVir the last iot^r 'years, tbe ar- rangements. for vTÉÎ*ï»fbltlon;: night •have. sbeen vin' chargè'. of a committee headed by Prof. Harold L. Lang, head ,of thè Department of General Science, Margaret Morri­son Carnegie college. Also serving on the committee are Prof- Charles W. Prine, of the Department of Physics; Walter H. Stulen. of the Department of ^ Architecture and Building ‘ Construction; i^of.’ W. 'Ai- Readio, of the Department ot PainU
T£oee who desire Invitation postal cards for Exhibition night to send to their friends', may obtain tiie,. same from the News bureau.
LABGEST SELECTION OP '¦: TORT ABLE AK» STANBASD-SIZED
TYPEWBXTEES$14.95 “to $75;oa —Liberal Tema . . . Fm Tiiil BENTA.TTPEWKITEB Finit Three tfontht’ Rantal Anpllas. to Parcha» Prie«. ; :PORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.
Peoples0 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
IN’ THE 
CENTER OP 
COLLEGE
Subjects Offered in 1935
Supplementary Session
..May 6^to. ;¿viy^5,Jn£luatxp^jt0/£0%,0tfter>v(ee Indicated..
Any student -who washes. information or advice concerning bis 
plans for thè supplementary term should call at thè Registrar’s office.
A. Subjects In Degree . Courses and Six-Year Certificate Courses 
Students following a degree program shoula ecbeaaJe one of tbe 
following subjects, in accordance with information on pages 39-62 of 
the 1934-35 Catalog ofNIght Courses: C-109, C-110, C-351, C-401,C.-402, 
É-20; E-21; :&43> or Shops (1-720,1-740, 1-760, 1-780), E-21, .E-43. and 
C-3C1 are offered only in alternate years; 1-720, 1-740, 1-760, and I-7B0, 
only every third year.
The work of the first term,of C-109, C-110, C-351, C-401, C-402, 
E-20 and E-21 will be given from May 6 to June 5; that of the second 
tetrin,'fr<uB.'june B to July,5. ..The work-of Jhe first term of C-54, will 
extend from-May 6 to' June 39;‘tbat of tlje second term, from June'19 
to August . 2. The fees ..marked,] .* Include a $5.00 laboratory deposit materials fee.'I. First Year Subjects 
C-62 Trigonometry, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 120 ($12).E-176b Gen. Chemistry, ree., 2nd term, M.F. 7:30-9:45, E. H. 216 ($9) E-176b Geii. Chemistry, lab., 2nd term, W. 7:30-10:30, E. H. 216, 214
(HD* *^ II. Second Year Subjects- 
An. Geom. & Calc. I, 2nd Term, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 205 ($12)
Drwg. & Desc. Geom. I;>bolh terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10-30, Ind. 345 ($26)* , '111. Upper Year Subjects Mechanics I, both terms, M.W.F. 9:30-9:30, E.H. 70 ($12) MecbanicsiII, both terms,.M.W.F..7:30-9;3O, E.H. 71 ($12) Physics III, Rèe. M.F. ,7:30-8:30, W-. 7:30-10:30, E.H. 209, 211 ($10) •Lab. M.F. 8:30-10:30, E.H. 204, 102, 107, 300B (?8) Analytic Geom. & Calc. II, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, May 6 to Aug. 3, E.HL 207 (Ind. 210 after July. 5) ($18)English I, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 127 C ($12) English I,' both terms, same as C-109Economics I, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 255 A ($12) Drwg. & Desc. Geom. Il.-rboth terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10:30, Ind. 345 ($26)* ^ ;Blue Print Reading, both ternfs, M.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 345 ($17)* Slide Rule Practice, W. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 346 ($6)Methods of Organizing and Teaching Drawing Courses, M.W.F. S:C0-10:30. lad: 345 ($26)*;Educational Measurements, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 245 ($12) Machine, Tue. 7:30-10:30, ìnd. 107 ($6)Forg;e, Wed. 7:30-10:30, lad. 7 ($6) 'Foundry, Fri. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 123, 117 ($6)Pattern, Mon. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 231, 232 ($6) r IV. Special'Subject E-574 Fuels, Combustion and'Domestic Stokers, M.W. 7:30:9:30, May ‘ 6 to June 5, incl., M.H.108- (?8)B. Subjects In Vocational Courses For. students who are planning to complete one of' the four-year courses leading to a certificate, the following, subjects in mathematics, physics,-.and mechanical drawing aìre offered. In e^ch subject the work of the.first termi will be given from May- 6 to Juné'5; the work of the id term, from June 5'to July 5. Students may register for the__of either term or'for the work of both terms.' The tuition feefor the work of both terms In any subject is $12; for the work'of one term, $6. ERch subject, unless otherwise indicated, is scheduled Mon­day, Wednesday, Friday, 7:30-9:30.Cn-21 Vocational Mathematics (E.H. 69)Cn-23 Elementary Algebra (E.H. 55)Cn-25 Elementary Trigonometry (E.H. 215)Cn-26 Plane Geometry A (Ind. 251)• E-99 Vocational Physics (E.H. Ill) 
i In-l01 Mechanical Drawing A (Ind. 319)In-102 Mechanical Drawing. B- (Ind. 319),In-103 Mechanical Drawing. C (Ind. 319)' C-423 Blue Print Reading l aee other sheet C-425 Slide Rule Practice J •C. Subjects In the General Courses'For each of the following subjects, except Cn-28, the calendar dates, schedule hours; and tuition fees are the same'as those of the subjects listed above. .. Cn-28 .will continue for à period of thirteen weeks, May 6 fo August 2; the .work ot the. first term will be given
. . ___ _j.vCà?26j..l\pted above;Cn-127 Elementa^/Éhgliéh-WtèràtùréV(Ìnd:'1Í7A;R6r . L:E-97 ; -Elementa^.’Physics ;AV(E;Hi '111J-."„'-..y.-*' ' .•1^98 ,;.. El0mentary1"PhySiCs .,B>i(i3.H. 100). V .'. ' :/•.-.E-97-98 Elementòty.Physics 'ArBj 1st term,'-'same as Er97tf : ;; E-97-98 Elementii17.iPhys.lcB A-B, 2nd -term,.;Bame;'a‘s .E-98;\. *Cn-26..'. Algebra^B,,May/6;tò'À'ugu8t 2: (lMd., 209) .J' Reeisit’ration will ^e 'held;'durJng¿the week çf; AprJi;^9 -ib,>,.>Iay :
made after the first week. • Subjects' wlth less.than twelve regiatxants
RQSCOE M. IHRIG,. Director of Night Courses.
.may.he withdrawn.
N. S. C. Re-elects A, C. Grimm 
President for 1935-36 Term
At-the-regular meeting of the 
Night Student counciljon Sunday, 
April 7, A. C. Grimin Of thè ‘College 
of -Engineering was /elected presi­
dent or the Night Student council 
for the coming year. He will suc­
ceed himself, having, .been- elected 
to this office for the present school 
term upon the resignation of C. 
A. Blochinger.
Mr. Crimra was graduated from 
the Zelienople High School in 1925 
and.has been registered.in*tke>Cpl-.i| 
lege of EagineerJog since 192?. He 
is a candidate for a degree and dl-. 
ploma in Civil Engineering in 1936 having completed the course In a record time of nice years. •In 1933, he was.awarded his first key for activities. He received his sccond award in 1934 and'is now eligible for the third. Mr. Grimm showed considerable ability and effort to advance the benefits of the night students and in recogni­tion of these qualities ' be was elected secretary of the College
As a further recognition of his activities, Mr. Grimm was called by and has been a member of the Phi Nu. night social fraternity,
Tis Said
THAT judging from rumors, black and black and. blue would be the most appropriate cofora to ' use .for' the Inter-Night
THAT It may be lave “June In January’* bt .lately looks“Springtime Ilike
THAT the rattling you heard over KQV -last Thursday was only Ed White crooning.THAT one of our more stu- dlous students travels to Mar.' garet Morrison on a motorcycle.THAT J. Perclful Page. Is do. log a. lot of snooping lately.- THAT m’lad skeleton keys will be appropriate In ease any of the doors In the Arts are- closed on Exhibition Night THAT this column will be continued next week P. H. D.
Social Group To 
Hold Meeting
day evening,. April 24, at 10:30- o’clock in the Council office in the Administration, building. The purpose of thé meeting Is to dlscues and -complete the decorating ar-' rangements for the coming . Inter-Night - school dance..
President
Annual Exhibition 
Given April 26
Night Studenti to Take Pa, 
/ Mp . Demonstration
• Carnegie" Tech; invites the dents nnd friends of the NiX School .to -attend the t-A-eniy-ninS Annual 'Exhibition, Friday atiS 26, 1935, from 7:30 to 10:30 ? 3 ,The..three colleges will be open inspection. -Visitors desiring & formation-and direction to various exhibits are requested .to inquire tbe information bureaus located tl.is «ntru«/.« building..., x
at the front entrance to Machini* Hall. Students of tbe D«p—¦- of Costume Economics wll Fashion Parade in the M,ei unslum at 8:30 p. - m.
The Electronic Laboratories En. gineering ,Hall, rooms 109 and’ 110 will be the scene of electrical dem onstrations of electrical dlscbarc« Jn gases and cathode rays; photo, in transparent materials; Michel eon’s Interferometer; and mercm arc spectrum. Reliability 0f piioii elastic methods will be discussed in room 102, Machinery Hall; room 104, of the sarpe building, will be the scene of experiments in Stress Concentration.
Nominees in Today’s Elections
PRESIDENT SENIOR GLASS:
SECRETARY OP SENIOR CLASS:
TREASURERSENIOR CLASS:
STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE:
ATHLETIC REPRESENTATIVE ; (Vote
JUNIOR CLASS:
-COUNCIL: sernord J. Kelly. Jtowara h6 mt-p6 jr., Geom W. Lambert son. William L. Latta. Jr.. .'William T. Lord.•P-RBSIDENT OF SOPHOMORE CLASS: B.'Wnync Berlin, William L.
^iTDor^d'E.^lXlln^John^Wecc! Jr.. Arthur. L. WUliama, Rnymond W Zi&pler.SECRETARY OF SOPHOMORE
TREASURER OF SOPHOMORE OI^ASS:. Daniel Supon. Manuel Truutan-
SECRETARY
TREASURER OF SENIOR CLASS: Dorothea Bateman. Sim-P. Criltman. .Mnrv EllotU^EIIznbeth‘Wcflt-i .,PRESIDENT OF JUNIOR' CLASS: Dorothy J. Booth. Margaret M. Fltscer-
SECRETARY 'oF JUNIOR ..CLASS: .Virginia E. Filler, MarV' 1^' KalUnbauRh,
TSEASUfiBR ' OF • JITNIOR. CLASS: Clairq A. • Frederick. Katherine SchreJbeia.ESFBVS OS2OSESFVBVM9SL6r Mm[M[ B6 Wundcrllch, Margaret L. ' Hainan, Helen Ei McCwa; .Mary . A. Ramlnston. : ASSISTANT SEC ROTARY • OF jSTU- DENT COUNCIL: (Vote for throS) L. Louise Baldy. Alpha Jftne Black, Lola E. Homer, Alberta IfcCture; Ailecn> B.' Schoenlfei?.-Jeufe F.'TJeman..'.PRESIDENT OF SOPHOMORE CLASS: Adelaide A. Agchmanji. Marine
SECRETARY
*r, Sylvia Stivici. 
SOPHOMORE
SENATE REPRÄSENTATIVE:
, CARNEftlE GUILD PRESIDENT: .Beatrlco L,
.VICE PRESIDENT:’ JesaJc G 
SECRETARY: Hlnda R; C
TREASURER : ' Margaret A. It!
• SBCRBTARY - TREAS URER :
VICE PRESIDENT; Evfrlyn J. Ltlflw, SECRETARY OF SENIOR CLASS: Uyce L. Philpott TREASURER OF SENIOR CLASS: 
' ATHLETIC REPRESENTATIVE: Lori»
. PP.E^IDENT...OF JUNIOR < vm^.Pi^Sloturn^^,.. ¦
'¦SECRETARY^^F JIWIOR I
PRESIDENTSOPHOMÖBBCLASS;
Ue‘ PRESIDENT OF SOPHOMOHB
s.CLASS: Rcgli
SECRETARY ^OF^SOPHOMOEE 
-/TREASURER' OF - SOPHOMOHB
"Sure, enjoy yoursalf," 
said J m Hi a ding 
good c garetteI was working way late at the 
office one night and ran out of. cigarettes. 
When Jim the watchman came through 
ror a smoke.
"Sure,” says Jim, and be handed 
over a pack of Chesterfields. "Go ahead, 
Mr. Kent, take three or four.”
Jim said he’d smoked a lot of ciga­
rettes in his time, but he’d put .Chester­
field up in front of any of ’em ivhen 
it came to taste.
... "and they ain’t a bit strong 
either,” is the way Jim put it.
That was the first Chesterfield I 
ever smoked. And I’m right there wtth 
him, too, when he says it’s a ding 
gQpd cigarette.
Peop JoCvJo'ô(rut'<drcnd~(P/teo'fctßcß/
t IMI. fi—TT * Um» TatMB» ctv
