Robotics Institute dedicated;
budget nears $2.5 million
by Bob Leighty
Robotics at CMU became official last 
month with the opening of the Robotics 
Institute, a unique cooperative venture 
between a university and private industry.
The present budget of robotics at CMU is 
about $2.5 million. The primary work is 
with Westinghouse Electric Corporation to 
create the “factory of the future.” Robots 
would increase productivity by performing 
jobs considered dangerous or monotonous, 
freeing humans to work in more productive 
areas.
Research is also underway on robots for 
undersea exploration, mining, nuclear 
rescue and powerplant inspection, space 
exploration, medical applications and other
works.
Dedication ceremonies were highlighted 
by speakers Thomas Murrin, Westinghouse 
Public System President; Albert Baciocco; 
U.S. Navy Admiral; and Dr. Allen Newell, 
professor of computer science and artificial 
intelligence expert at CMU. Other speakers 
were University President Richard Cyert, 
Robotics Institute Director Raj Reddy, and 
CIT Dean Angel Jordan.
Some of the robotics exhibits and demon­
strations included:
• Two robot arms, working together, 
which would insert a row of resistors into a 
circuit board.
• A robot arm which, upon hearing a 
human command, would grab, pick up, 
move, put down, and release a large turbine 
blade.
• A scanning laser, potentially the eyes of 
a future “intelligent” robot, which would 
determine the shape of a three-dimensional 
solid object.
• A progress report on autonomous 
mobile robots to be used where human con­
trol is dangerous or simply impossible. The 
latest robot traveled a 20 meter obstacle 
course on land in five hours.
• Intelligent computers which would 
make management decisions in a factory 
environment.
• Special cameras and lenses which 
would view three-dimensional objects, pro-
Mindie Snyder, Spring Carnival Chairman, already 
has the wild west spirit. See story on page 6.
AIESEC named first in nation
by Maureen Brennan
The Camegie-Mellon committee of AIE­
SEC, an international business organiza­
tion, was named the Most Outstanding 
Local Committee in the U.S., for the second 
year in a row, at the organization’s national 
convention in Boston over Christmas break.
This entirely student run, non-profit, 
non-political organization exists to promote 
international understanding and fostering 
of international management experience. 
Its primary program is the exchange of stu­
dents in business related jobs worldwide;
The award was based on excellence in all 
areas of operation. This includes marketing
SDC re-classifies rooms
Budget rooms eliminated; summer renovations set
by Alice Alfonsi
On-campus housing, or the lack of it is, at 
present, a major problem for most colleges 
in the nation today, and CMU is no excep­
tion. While building new dormitories is one 
solution - a solution that CMU administra­
tors have considered - it is not feasible for 
most colleges. In fact building new dormito­
ries may be financial suicide because enrol­
lment declines, which have been projected 
to start next fall and continue for ten years, 
will leave colleges without enough students 
to occupy the rooms.
In the meantime, CMU housing has been 
working on a plan to improve the current 
housing situation. Beginning this past fall, 
the Student’s Dormitory Council’s (SDC) 
Housing Committee has been working on a 
new room classification system for the CMU 
dorms. Gerald Dalton, Director of Housing 
explained why he asked SDC to re-classify 
the rooms; “...in looking at a lot of the 
rooms I felt that some of the budget triples 
were just too crowded for three people to live 
in...
Upon completion of the project in 
December, the SDC housing committee 
recommended that “...we change the 
minimum-maximum square footages for 
classifications and diat we do away with all 
budget rooms,” according to Dalton. The 
plan has been examined by Dalton and is 
being reviewed by Oscar Mayer, Director of 
Auxiliary Services.
If the SDC plan is initiated, 84 dormitory 
spaces will be lost on the campus. Some 
doubles would be changed into singles and 
some triples would become doubles. “Any 
budget room would either have one less 
occupant or it would move up in its classifi­
cation as a standard,” said Dalton.
The major question is can the campus 
and students get by on 84 less places?
Other college adminstrators who had 
scorned building new dorms are beginning 
to rethink housing construction. University 
officials across the nation are realizing that 
the current housing shortages may not be 
temporary.
continued on page 4
the program to local businesses, providing a 
reception program for the foreign trainees 
here in Pittsburgh, coordinating projects 
such as the Careers Seminar and Exxon on 
Energy for the business and academic com­
munity, securing a membership of 63 CMU 
students, and publishing public relation’s 
tools such as the 1979 AIESEC-Camegie- 
Mellon Annual Report.
Other highlights of the year for the CMU 
committee include securing jobs abroad for 
17 CMU students, participating in a special 
brother-sister relationships with committees 
in both Oslo, Norway and Hong Kong, 
computerizing management information, 
and publishing a newsletter for the New 
York City national office to distribute to 
2000 AIESEC members all over the country.
The first place award was presented at the 
AIESEC National Convention, held in the 
Copley Plaza Hotel in downtown Boston 
from Dec. 26 - Jan. 1. The Harvard commi- 
tee hosted the convention, which included 
events such as dinner at the Harvard Club 
and a closing speech by former U.S. Attor­
ney General, Elliot Richardson.
Fourteen members of the CMU commit­
tee attended the week long convention. 
They were: Ken Boyd AMS/Econ, Damien 
continued on page 5
Carter signs Mines bill
by Alice Alfonsi
thePresident Carter signed into law 
Bureau of Mines Bill (H.R. 7385) on 
December 17. The bill authorizes the Secre­
tary of the Interior to enter into a contract 
with CMU, whereby the property adjacent 
to CMU, known as the Bureau of Mines, 
will be sold to CMU by the United States. In 
return CMU is to pay “the fair market value 
of the property or $5,400,000 whichever is 
greater.”
The question remains as to when CMU 
can actually move into the Bureau build­
ings. Now that the bill is passed, “it boils 
down to how fast the Bureau of Mines opera­
tions can be transferred,” said Jason Hall, 
legislative aid to Senator Heinz of Pa.
The idea to buy the Bureau buildings was 
first discussed in 1957 when CMU was then 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology . Bills 
had been introduced in Congress on at least 
three occasions since then, and each time the 
bills were unsuccessful.
The Bureau of Mines Facility was 
designed by the same architect who planned 
the CMU campus, and the style is the same 
as the original campus buildings.
cess the information in a computer and dis­
play the image on a screen similar to a small 
portable television.
• A manufacturing cell where a massive 
robot arm would grasp a turbine blade and 
carry' it toa second machine which would 
refine its size. The robot arm would then 
return the blade and check its new size.
Today’s functioning robots are primarily 
first generation, which means operated 
totally by man. The Robotics Institute is 
working to develop second generation 
robots, which have senses like sight and 
touch, and third generation or autonomous 
robots, which can think for themselves.
Cyert sees nothing wrong with the “close 
relationship” CMU has with Westinghouse 
and soon hope to have other corporations. 
The arrangement is that CMU has the right 
to publish its robotics accomplishments 
while the sponsoring corporation (e.g. Wes­
tinghouse) has patent rights.
continued on page 4
Directed by a computer brain and camera eyes, this robot arm picks up scattered bolts and places them in a 
special tray. CMU is designing such robots to help create the “factory of the future.”

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The solutions for the 80’s are up to us
The past year has been a troubled one for 
America with the seemingly endless hostage 
crisis, spiraling inflation, increasing unem­
ployment, low productivity, increasing crime 
and the reinstitution of the military draft regis­
tration to face the realistic possibility of war. 
The image of America, in the eyes of Ameri­
cans and the rest of the world, has diminished 
and the real struggle, it seems, is yet to begin. 
But at the root of our country is the strength 
and love that is inherent in the tremendous 
show of spirit and support Americans have 
shown the hostages in Iran. As we welcome 
home these freed hostages and as we inaugu­
rate a new president, this coutry seems ready to 
face the challenges of the eighdes with a new 
determination.
We, as the future leaders of America, must be 
on the crest of this determination. We must 
meet the challenge, and possibly the threat, of 
the eighties with fresh insight and a new look 
to the future- our future. It is not enough to 
rely on the powers of a new president who, at 
best, represents a different generation-a gener- 
adon who may see our future differently than 
we do. We must pardcipate in our government 
because our political system relies on our 
participation.
But, as we all know, it is very easy for stu­
dents, locked in their world of books and frat 
parties, to forget about their responsibilities as 
Americans. We can all recall the widespread 
grumbling over the military draft issue; how­
ever, it is often these same people who refuse,
or simply ignore, their role in the governing of 
their country. Students traditionally respond 
to certain key issues, only to sink back into 
oblivion soon after the question has come to 
some sort of conclusion. What many of us 
don’t seem to realize, though, is the fact that 
there are questions being addressed daily that »* 
need our consideration- questions affecting, 
every facet of our lives.
You can express your views on particular 
issues by writing to your congressman, circu­
lating a petition or attending a rally; but the 
important thing is being informed of the ques­
tions that need to be answered and trying, in 
any way you can, to contribute to the solu­
tions. These solutions will determine the qual­
ity of your life and the lives of your loved ones 
for many years to come.
Dear Mr. President
Here are a few suggestions on your new job
Dear Mr. President,
I didn’t vote for you in November. In 
some ways I wanted to: I’m a Republican 
and since 1976 I have argued that Jimmy 
Carter would be incompetent as president.
Nevertheless, Mr. President, I couldn’t 
vote for you. I felt you were naive about 
foreign affairs and misguided about eco­
nomics and social reform. When you began 
to make some incredible statements about 
Vietnam, evolution, pollution and foreign 
policy, I also began to seriously question 
your intelligence.
Although I wasn’t interested in the 
extreme opinions of your right-wing 
backers, Mr. President, I did listen closely to 
the arguments of your more reasonable 
moderate supporters. You were generally 
defended for your public misstatements-it 
was a bitter campaign and you didn’t really 
mean what you said. You were defended for 
your economics and social reform-you 
couldn’t do any worse than Jimmy Carter 
and Congress wouldn’t let you do any reck­
less cutting of important programs. You
were defended for your foreign policy-you 
couldn’t do any worse than Jimmy Carter 
and your advisers appeared to be fairly 
intelligent.
Bob
Leighty
Mr. President, your statements were too 
outrageous for me to simply dismiss as cam­
paign rhetoric. Concerning economics and 
social reform, Mr. President, Congress 
didn’t keep Carter from making serious mis­
takes and you could indeed be worse than 
him. Concerning foreign policy, Mr. Presi­
dent, in times of crisis advisers are generally 
divided; many of your own ideas are wrong, 
your judgement is unproven and you could 
indeed be much worse than Carter.
But now it doesn’t matter, does it Mr. 
President? You’re in office in spite of my 
vote. You’re in office in spite of millions of 
Americans who either voted for your oppo­
sition or stayed home.
W7hat you and the conservative Congress 
have is not a mandate for change, Mr. Presi­
dent, but it is an opportunity. We haven’t 
taken a giant leap to the right; every Ameri­
can does not have the extreme views of a 
Jesse Helms. We have, however, become 
acutely aware of the failures of many liberal 
policies.
It is indeed time for a change, Mr. Presi­
dent. It is indeed time for a more conserva­
tive government and a better vision of 
America’s role in the future of our planet. 
I hope you have that vision, Mr. 
President.
Mr. President, you will soon be humbled 
by the hard realities and awesome responsi­
bilities of your new job. You will soon find 
that your sharp conservative rhetoric, like 
Jimmy Carter’s symbol-making, is not 
enough to solve the very real and very deep
problems of our country and our world.
Mr. President, as a former successful Cali­
fornia governor you are an able administra­
tor. As a former actor, you are a good 
symbolic leader. But, Mr. President, if we are 
to survive and prosper you must be more. 
You must have that rare quality of vision; 
you must be able to put our past mistakes in 
perspective when planning for the future.
Mr. President, you must understand 
American imperialism of the 18th, 19th and 
20th centuries. You must understand the 
Great Depression, You must understand the 
tragedy of Martin Luther King Jr. You must 
understand Vietnam. You must understand 
Watergate. You must understand why 
Jimmy Carter failed to win re-election.
Most of all, Mr. President, you and your 
advisers must understand the lack of peace 
: in our world. Peace is achieved when every 
human being has food, clothing, shelter and 
dignity. Peace is never totally achieved, but 
it must always be our top priority.
Bob Leighty is a junior majoring in 
Technical Writing and Editing and is the 
editorial assistant for The Tartan.
Robbt
lAE-THlSim GOING 
TOBE M/tmCNG 
HonEWpciI ......
College Press Service
m_______
Editor-in-Chief ...............................Susan Borg
Managing Editor.........................Doug Kirsop
Business Manager.........................Karen Stevens
News Editor................................. Jim Balsom
Features Editor.........................Renee Rosenfeld
Entertainment Editor............Richard Gorelick
Sports Editor................................... Wes Seeley
Dossier Editor................................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editor...................Robert Zusman
Art Directors...................................Craig Otto
Tom Weinkle
Production Manager .. e....................Bob Harr
Editorial Assistant ..........................Bob Leighty
Assoeiat- News Editor...............Jeanne Abmayr
Production Staff.........................Vina* Guinto
Mike Heaney
Copyright ' /‘AW by The Tartan. The Editorial 
Board reserves the ri^hi t<> withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit foi publication. 
Funded in pan by the Student Government of 
Cat negie-\ielIon I'niveisity, Pittsburgh. 
Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skilx) f>0. 
(112)578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo *>2. H 12)578- 
21 iI. 21 bout phone. (112) .'>78-211.1 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

January 20, 1981—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters
More than just a tree
Dear Editor:
My grandfather was full of wisdom, one 
piece of which was advice to my brother and 
I to avoid saying or doing things while we 
were angry—that many of the moments 
we’d look back on and regret would include 
actions or statements borne of such baser 
instincts as anger, frustration, bitterness, 
resentment.
This time, however, I’m not going to fol­
low my grandfather’s advice because I am 
angry and saddened and disappointed all at 
the same time, and I want to let this be 
known—to one or two in particular. You 
see, it’s now early Thursday morning, 
December 11, and I’ve j ust arrived at work to 
discover that a Christmas tree has been 
stolen. But not just any Christmas tree. This 
particular tree had only yesterday been the 
centerpiece of a College Christmas party, 
sponsored and organized by the H&SS Stu­
dent Advisory Council, but at various points 
in time involving dozens of students and 
faculty—not including the large numbers 
who turned out for the party yesterday after­
noon to relax, to laugh and smile a bit when 
pressures of end-of-semester are building, to 
touch and take part for a moment in this 
thing we call the “spirit of the season”— 
and, of course, to decorate the tree with the 
traditional assortment of satin balls, candy 
canes, ribbons, and popcorn strings. The 
event was a joy to watch, suggesting as it did 
that this university—so hard and demand­
ing on us all at times—can also be full of 
friends, laughter, good feelings, of a sense of 
“community” and perhaps even of “home”. 
So it was not “just a tree”, you see, as you 
maybe thinking to yourself right now. The 
fully decorated tree stood as testimony to all 
these good things, and would perhaps lift a 
spirit or two passing through the second 
floor Baker Hall rotunda during the rigors 
of final exam week. And then, we had 
decided, our tree would go to the home for 
crippled children, perhaps to continue its 
special kind of “service”.
Too much fuss over one Scotch pine? Per­
haps. But the number of saddened and 
deflated spirits reacting to the surprise of the 
tree’s theft suggests that I might not exagger­
ate. Alright, then, why belabor the point in 
this letter? Well, two reasons come to mind. 
First I’d like to send out the positive message 
of what it was possible to create here, where 
many frequently complain of a cold, insen­
sitive, impersonal atmosphere. I see evi­
dence to the contrary, and am pleased and 
encouraged by what I see. Second, I am both 
angered and saddened (more the latter, actu­
ally) at the insensitivity demonstrated by the 
“tree thief (or thieves).” True enough, many 
mitigating circumstances as yet unknown to 
me might temper these feelings of mine. But 
if the act of dragging our tree—decorations, 
stand, and all—out the front door of Baker 
Hall sometime last night was meant as a 
prank, or perhaps as a venting of anger 
against the institution, then I am right, I 
think to feel angry and saddened—saddened 
that the tree, which seemed after yesterday’s 
party to embody warmth and cheer and 
comraderie, had become the target of as cold, 
insensitive, and impersonal an act as I’ve 
seen in some time.
Apologies to grandfather.
Joseph Devine 
Director , H&SS Academic Advisory Center
Cannot pass unnoticed 
Editor:
Over Christmas break, the school took the 
liberty of disposing of all third class mail 
that entered the More wood Mailroom. 
According to Mr. Dalton, Housing Director, 
this is a policv that has been in practice over
the past several years. Regardless of what has 
been done during other holidays, this policy' 
appears to unjust. Interfering with U.S. 
Mail is a federal offense, I don’t think 
anyone could disagree with the fact that 
school doesn’t have the right to throw away 
student mail. Third class mail typically 
includes such items as magazines and news­
papers. Several students have said in pre­
vious years, magazines were stacked by the 
mailroom to await student pick-up.
Mr. Dalton also mentions that a memo 
was posted during December stating that all 
student third class mail would be thrown 
out and no mail would be forwarded. 
Although no one I have spoken to recalls 
seeing this memo, it may still have been 
posted. Regardless of the school’s defense in 
this situation, they cannot deny that they 
have interfered unreasonably with the mail 
system.
Most of us are aware of many problems in 
the delivery of student mail. Please let your 
thoughts be known about this issue. It is 
important not to let this kind of action pass 
unnoticed.
Noel Wolf
Letter Policy
Letters to the editor should be short 
and to the point. If they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if they are to be included in the follow­
ing week’s issue of The Tartan.
Students, faculty and administra­
tors are invited to submit their views as a 
guest columnist on the op-ed page. 
Columns should be in clear, concise 
English and should be submitted on 2-3 
typed pages by the Thursday prior to 
publication.
strw
As The Tartan went 
to press, the release of
the 52 Americans held
for over 14 months as 
hostages in Iran 
seemed imminent.
Our
with
prayers 
them for a
are
safe
return.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—January 20, 1981
Computer Games
Researcher studies computer decision making
photo by Robert Zusman
Dr. Hans Berliner, professor of computer science, has developed a backgammon-playing computer program 
which beat the world’s backgammon champion in 1979 and was the subject of a feature story in Scientific 
American over the summer.
Games are excellent models for 
testing the concepts used to produce intelli­
gent computer systems, Dr. Hans Berliner of 
Carnegie-Mellon’s Computer Science 
Department said today at the annual meet­
ing of the American Association for the 
Advancement of Science.
Artificial intelligence is the area of com­
puter science concerned with producing 
programs that can perform tasks in rela­
tively ill-defined situations, much as 
humans do in the real world. In games the 
possibilities are limited by the rules, but the 
possible variety of situations remains 
extremely large and the number of intelli­
gent responses is enormous.
Until recently, researchers thought the 
right way to program game playing pro-Morewood plagued with problems
by Monica J. Cellio
Morewood Garden residents were faced 
with the problems of no water, missing 
mail, high temperatures, and a false fire 
alarm their first week of the spring semester.
Monday, January 12, maintenance 
received calls from students on the upper 
floors of Morewood who complained that 
the water pressure was low. Later in the day 
the Droblem spread to the rest of the build-
Robotics
continued from page I 
“Such relationship» are valuable to both 
our institutions,” Murrin said, “and I’m 
confident that our relationship with the new 
Robotics Institute will prove to be most sig­
nificant in the years ahead.”
Cvert emphasizes that CMU will not 
delay publication of robotics breakthroughs 
to help sponsoring corporations like West- 
inghouse. “We will, not engage in anything 
in the nature of secret research,” he said.
Admiral Baciocco feels that “progress in 
robotics is the key' both to reindustrializing 
America and to ensuring a strong national 
security.” Cyert agrees and feels that CMU 
has a responsibility to develop robotics. "A 
university is an organization which should 
be working on the problems according to its 
skills,” Cyert said.
Dr. Newell feels that CMU has much to 
gain from robotics, including basic engi­
neering knowledge, intei disciplinary activ­
ity and increased intellectual excitement. 
Newell’s major hope is for an increase in 
basic scientific knowledge. “We can expect 
fundamental science to come from the 
Robotics Institute,” he said.
ing, w’ith the exception of E-Tower. CMU 
was not the only place affected, however, 
many families in Oakland and Squirrel Hill 
also found themselves without water.
The apparent cause of the problem was a 
water main break in Oakland. Because of 
the break, the water pressure in Morewood 
was only about 22 pounds, instead of the 80 
pounds needed to run the building. Monday 
afternoon a bypass to another system was 
made, which increased Morewood’s pres­
sure to about 40 pounds. By 8:00 p.m., ser­
vice was restored to the building, but toilets 
continued to malfunction until Tuesday 
morning, due to the dirt that entered and 
clogged pipes while the system was not in 
use. No cause has yet been found for the 
break.
Missing Mail
Upon their return to the campus, many 
students found that some of their mail was 
missing. Although the first class mail
appeared to be intact, some students com­
plained of missing magazines, newspapers, 
catalogs from other schools, and various 
other second and third class mail.
A part-time employee in the Morewood 
mail room, who would not give his name, 
denied that catalogs were thrown out, 
though he confirmed that “some old Time 
magazines and hometown newspapers” 
were thrown away.
According to Marcia Klosinski, a Hous­
ing Office employee who oversees mail 
delivery, it is CMU’s policy not to hold 3rd 
class and bulk mail over the break, and that 
signs are posted to that effect. There are two 
reasons for the policy, according to Ms. Klo­
sinski. The first is that CMU does not have 
the capability to store three weeks worth of 
mail for all students. CMU mail service is 
just that—a service—and is not a post office. 
CMU simply does not have the space for this 
type of storage.
continued on page 5
SDC reclassifies rooms
continued from page 1
Many colleges are applying for loans 
from the department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD), which has adopted a 
policy to grant low-interest loans to small 
colleges while denying them to larger uni­
versities. The reasoning for this is that small 
colleges are now more vulnerable to the 
dangers of the coming enrollment decline.
CMU is presently on its third loan from 
HUD. This summer, housing will replace 
the windows in Morewood Gardens. This 
project is being funded with a HUD loan.
^Other charges and improvements are also
being considered for the future. These 
changes include remodeling the Morewood 
Towers A, B, C and D; putting in new 
bathrooms so that every room in Morewood 
would have a private or semi-private bath - 
no more hall baths. Connecting of the tow­
ers is also being considered as a fire safety 
device as well as a convenience for the 
students.
This year’s housing’s budget includes the 
purchase of 200 to 350 new sets of room 
furniture. It has not yet been determined 
which rooms will be refurnished.
grams was to provide them with the rules so 
the computer could reason about the 
actions. But in complicated games such as 
chess the number of rules required for intel­
ligent play would be extremely large and 
might conflict, so programmers have 
instead turned to searching branching 
chains of possible moves and countermov­
ers. These programs are very' powerful, yet 
contain little ability to make judgements 
about the situation developing at any given 
point in the game.
“Such programs have no ‘ideas,’ but use 
the search for discover (of moves) and the 
knowledge for confirmation. Nevertheless, 
the best chess program plays at the expert 
and possibly master level,” Berliner noted.
The Carnegie-Mellon University 
researcher observed that searching trees of 
possible moves, as in chess, is useless in 
backgammon because of the roll of the dice 
between moves creates too much uncer­
tainty. For this reason, Berliner has concen­
trated on creating a program with a large 
amount of information to enable it to make 
judgements about the positions that it can 
choose from at each move.
This “smart” program has two levels of 
knowledge: the ordinary knowledge level, 
and a supervisory level which appraises the 
overall situation and controls which factors 
are weighed heavily in evaluating the cur­
rent move. “The program thus has a keen 
awareness of what is going on and what 
should be done at any point in the game,” 
he said.
Judging the overall situation at a particu­
lar move, the program evaluates a function 
called a SNAC function (SNAC stands for 
“smooth nonlinear, with application coeffi­
cients”). This is an equation which takes 
into account a number of factors, their gen­
eral importance, and how their relative 
importance changes in specific situations.
The computer scientist’s method was 
good enough to allow his backgammon 
program to beat the World Backgammon 
Champion in a seven-point exhibition 
match in Monte Carlo in 1979. He is cur­
rently adapting his program as a backgam­
mon tutor capable of analyzing another 
player’s motives and explaining the reason 
why a particular move is good to a human 
player.
Berliner is a former World Correspon­
dence Chess Champion, and has been 
organizer of the preliminary matches in the 
Fredkin Prize competition for the first com­
puter program to beat a human World 
Chess Champion. ,
UNE
AT
LEADOIK
Sing With The 
CMU CHOIRS
UNIVERSITY CHOIR 
WOMEN’S CHORALE 
GLEE CLUB 
CAMERON CHOIR
Information and Placement Audition»—Margaret Morrison 
Rm. 124

---------------------------------------------------

January 20, 1981—The Tartan—Page 5
MU sponsors entrepreneurial development
by Reed Vickerman
Graduate students participating in 
CMU’s Center for Entrepreneurial Develop- 
lent (CED) are pursuing new, and often 
¡innovative, business ventures. Guided by 
rofessor Dwight Baumann and Jack 
lom, these students are involved in a pio­
neering program to cultivate new business 
enterprises under their own management.
Now beginning its tenth year, CED is 
available to GSIA and SUPA students, but 
due to recent policy changes, the program is 
no longer available to CIT graduates.
Although Bauman is on leave of 
absence this year, CED has continued to 
meet with success and notoriety, as it was 
recendy featured in Newsweek, and has met 
with great interest and enthusiasm from 
educators in England, Canada and Sweden.
In response to its latest national publicity in 
Newsweek, Dr. Baumann’s office has been 
deluged by requests to share some of CED’s 
methodology. Among the hundreds of let­
ters recently received was one from a prison 
convict who wished to participate in the 
program by correspondence.
U.S. Representative George Brown Jr., of 
California, recently credited the Center with 
having provided a “sound modeling base”
Morewood plagued with problems
continued from page 4
The second reason is that students are not 
legally residents during break, so technically 
mail should be forwarded to the students’ 
homes. However, the Post Office forwards 
only first class mail, and will not handle 
second and third class; therefore, CMU 
must dispose of it.
Next year the Housing office plans to 
j change this policy. They would like to elim­
inate the misunderstandings that accom­
panied this year’s system, but no details have 
| been specified yet.
Tropical Temperatures
Some students returned after break to 
¡overheated rooms, and one student, a resi­
dent of the fifth floor of C-Tower, claimed to 
measure a temperature of 120 degrees. This 
[extreme heat caused many student’s plants 
to die. According to Gerald Dalton, the 
[Director of Housing, the heating system was 
rot malfunctioning, but it always has 
»used problems. He said “(Students) who 
rave lived in Morewood know that some of 
[the rooms are overheated so much that 
>metimes radiators are turned off and win- 
lows opened all winter. However, over the
break the rooms were closed up, and 
although the heat was turned down, enough 
heat entered the rooms and stayed there to 
cause the rooms to be extremely warm and 
musty.”
False Alarm 
The fire alarm which went off at 11:56 
p.m. on January 11 in the fraternity area was 
a false alann caused by an equipment mal-
Officers chosen
function. According to Lt. Castelli of Cam­
pus Police, the fire department responded to 
the alarm which was later traced toZBT and 
Phi Kappa Theta only to find that bad 
weather was the cause of the malfunction. 
Apparently, water from the recent snowfall 
had managed to enter the alarm boxes, caus­
ing damage to the wiring. Repairs began 
last week.
Houska to chair Senate
Nina Houska, a junior metallurgy major, 
was elected the new chairperson of Student 
Senate at the end of last semester. Houska 
succeeded junior chemistry major Kim 
Ames.
Also elected at the last Senate meedng 
were the vice chairperson and chairmen of 
Senate’s four internal committees.
Laurie Elm, running unapposed, was re­
elected vice-chairperson of Senate, while 
junior Rich Hanusek was elected chairman 
of the finance committee. Bob Holste, a 
sophomore chemical engineering major 
was elected chairman of the rules commit-
tee; Steve Smith, a junior in electrical engi­
neering, was re-elected chairman of the 
general campus and imformation commit­
tee and Doug Carney, a senior architecture 
student, was elected chairman of the aca­
demic affairs committee.
Houska said her first task as chairperson 
is to get Senate’s organization and efficiency 
improved.” She plans to meet with the offic­
ers of the Senate and committee chairmen 
regularly and hopes to change the feeling 
the “Senate hasn’t been doing much work 
lately.”
for other institutions to copy. Representa­
tive Brown, as a member of the House Com­
mittee on Science and Technology, was an 
active supporter of the Stevenson-Wydler 
Act which, signed into law recently by Presi­
dent Carter , will provide financial support 
for the establishment of other innovation 
centers similar to CED.
Among those CED projects which have 
met with success have been student ventures 
like Elcomp. Founded by Ami Elis, Elcomp 
processed insurance forms, accounting 
information and various medical records for 
doctors, professionals who are typically 
inundated by paperwork. Elcomp’s sales are 
expected to reach $2 million this year. Other 
CED projects include Compuguard, a pro­
ducer of computer based energy manage­
ment systems. Compuguard began with a 
$40,000 loan from CED, and was sold last 
year for more than $6 million.
Another company, Transcomm Data Sys­
tems, was purchased by a French electronics 
group and reports sales of more than $5 
million annually. Yet the most widely pub­
licized and dramatic project of CED was the 
aquisition of Peoples Cab Co. Bought for 
$1, Peoples now boasts annual sales in 
excess of $300,000.
continued on page 6AIESEC
continued from page 1
Bosco AMS/Math, Jeannie Jessup Psycho­
logy/AMS, Sean McCaffrey AMS, Maureen 
Brennan Prof. Writing/AMS, Christine 
Banze AMS, Ann Haller AMS, Kathy 
McGinley AMS/Prof. Writing, Ron Vulgris 
AMS, Laura Evans AMS, Ann Marie Gal­
lant AMS, Kathy Krummert Prof. Writing, 
Wayne Jackson Math/Comp. Sci.,and 
Nancy Lesney Civil Engineering.
ATTEN 
TION 
ALL 
CAMP­
US OR­
GANI­
ZA— 
TIONS
Get something 
for nothing!
You are required to fill 
out a campus 
organizational survey 
sheet for Student Senate 
by January 30th. If you 
don’t we’ll assume your 
group is defunct. Survey 
sheets may be obtained at 
Skibo Info. Desk.
Bob Holste
Chairman Rules Committee 
422-8707
The Tartan will pay you 50C 
for any November 1980 issue in good 
condition that you can bring back to 
us.
Papers may be returned to the 
Tartan office, Skibo 52, today or 
Thursday from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 
Wednesday from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m.
_I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—January 20, 1981
1 111 ..."""" ¦"*«.
Spring Carnival on its way; Wild West theme chosen
Creating, manufacturing, and marketing the test systems that keep electronic technol­
ogy growing is the business of Teradyne, the world’s high-tech leader in automatic test 
equipment (ATE).
Every bit as sophisticated as the technology it must judge, ATE presents an espe­
cially exciting challenge to the most creative minds.
What keeps Teradyne in the forefront of this industry, and makes it such a rewarding 
place to work, is the fact that here creative minds are actively sought out and 
encouraged to sparkle.
The nature of our work demands it.
To imagine your future at Teradyne, check the Placement Office and talk to the 
Teradyne representative coming soon to your campus.
An equal opportunity employer M/F.
by Debbie Nir
“Wild West” has been selected as the 
theme for the 1981 Spring Carnival which 
will be held on April 23-25. This decision 
was made at a joint meeting between the 
Spring Carnival Executive Board and Mid­
way Representatives on December 8. “Wild 
West” was chosen over other themes includ­
ing “Lore of the Sea,” “Circus,” “Hooray 
For Hollywood,” and “Famous Firsts.” 
“The theme of ‘Wild West’ is good 
because we’ll carry it out all over the place. 
There are a lot of publicity gimmicks like
cowboy boot keychains, bandanas, and but­
tons,” stated Mindie Snyder, Spring Carni­
val Chairman. Other ideas discussed for the 
theme of “Wild West” include indoor and 
outdoor square dances, tumbleweed on the 
cut, a hayride, and even the possibility of a 
shooting gallery.
“Everyone on the board is a good worker 
and is really excited,” added Snyder. Help­
ing to create the “Wild West” atmosphere 
will be Executive Board members Robert 
Morris, Midway Chairman; Greg Pisocky,
New Tartan editors elected
Chairman Assistant; Steve Hall, Entrance 
Way; Mark Valenta, Fireworks and Open­
ing and Closing Ceremonies; Lauren 
Lukasik, Events Chairman; Chris Reb- 
mann, Entertainment; Doug Kirsop, 
Power; Jeff MacCartney, Rides; and Ste­
phanie Smith, Finance. Also making a big
contribution will be Anne Witchner, Direc. 
tor of Student Affairs.
Spring Carnival is currently in the brain­
storming stage. If you are interested in work- 
ing on any of the committees or helping out 
leave your name and phone number at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
Entrepreneurial Development
continued from page 5 
The future looks optimistic for CED as it 
plans the establishment of companies 
which will create and produce such innova­
tions as fuel obtained from sunflower seeds, 
instant book printing, combined air-ground 
passenger transportation sendees and even 
low-cost solar power for public buildings. 
At the center of the program’s innovations 
and successes is the philosophy of its pre­
mier proponent Dr. Baumann, who des­
cribes the program as not unlike an art 
colony or studio, where creativity is culti­
vated and technique is perfected. Dr. Bau­
mann compares the experiences of a CED 
student to that of an intern working in a 
medical clinic. It appears that the “hands-
on” approach is the only effective way to 
teach the art of entrepreneurship.
In response to questions as to the sourceof 
this engineering professors interest in this 
unique and business oriented field, Dr. Bau 
mann explains, “I believe that on the order 
of one percent of our engineering graduates 
at present fit the “make things happen” cate, 
gory. In the past this has been adequate 8] 
keep the other 99% quite fully employed and 
thus support the rest of the technologically 
based U.S. economy, but now we either need 
to produce more of this 1% creative type, 
divert fewer to other pursuits (regulation 
etc.) or accept the idea that other cultures 
will and are developing their own dynamics 
of product innovation.”
Doug Kirsop, a junior electrical engineer­
ing major, was elected Tartan Editor-in 
Chief at last month’s annual Editorial 
Board election. All Tartan staff members 
were eligible to vote.
Other people elected were: Jennifer Hut­
ton, News Editor: Maureen Brennan, Fea­
tures Editor: Richard Gorelick.
Entertainment Editor; Lynn Epstein, Doss­
ier Editor; and Robert Zusman, Photo­
graphy Editor.
As of this writing, the elected positions of 
Sports Editor and Managing Editor are still 
open.
Selected for appointed positions were Bob 
Leighty, Associate Editor; Bob Harr, Pro­
duction Manager; Linda Hetrick, Business 
Manager; and Jane Noverro, Art Director.
Assistants appointed were; Kathy Krum- 
mert, Assistant Features Editor; Adam 
Lauzer, Assistant Entertainment Editor; and 
Pam Shugerman, Assistant Business 
Manager.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Kip’s notes: The Official Preppy Handbook
Till. 01 I ICI.H.PREPPYHANDBOOK
_________“Look, Muffy, a hook for us." ______
The first guide to The Tradition. Mannerisms, Etiquette,Dress Codes, The Family. How to Be Really Top Drawer.
The Legacy of Good Taste, Proper Breeding & the Right Nickname.
Robbtibcsa
The Schools. 
Boarding vs. Day, 
Coeil vs. Single-Sex. 
Chapel, Lights-Out, 
Dining Halls 
and Study Halls.
A Sampling 
of Mottoes and 
Memorabilia.
The Importance of 
Getting Kicked 
Out.............p\<;kim>
The Crucial 
K lenientI op- Siders, 
Loafers, Tassels. 
Cuffs a Must.
The Sock Contro­versy...... PACiKIW
EDITED BY
CMUe mMflnehw
Winning with Kase 
am) l.osing with 
Grace, l-acrosse. 
Squash, Crew, and 
Held Hockey.
I he Sailing Scene. 
Flotillas, Regattas, 
Yachts and \acht 
Clubs. The 
Sporting Life.
I ally I p\< ; kim> 11«)
Essays on :
by David “Kip” Land
LIST OF CHARACTERS
MUFFY: Nickname for any name - first or 
middle - commencing with the letter “M”. 
BOOTSY: Very New England, much 
preppier than Betsy.
VAN: Used when “van” is part of last name. 
Indicates dubability, heavy apres-ski action. 
BIF: For little boys. Bif lives on the tennis 
courts.
GENERAL PLOT SUMMARY
Takes the prep-to-be from first breath to 
Time’s obituary. Wrapped in madras at 
birth the preppy baby is immediately placed 
in a “good school.” Now that Corkie and 
Kip and Bootsy and Bif have their own cute 
little pre-formed identities coordinated with
their little Lacoste’s and Top-Siders, things 
are moving along well. Riding lessons, 
summer camp, and sailing on Nantucket 
lead the young prep to prep school itself, a 
time of hardship and drinking, first sex and 
comeraderie. It is a time for generating last­
ing friendships and the formation of the 
youngster’s first “old boy network.” The 
student leams how to look good without 
even trying and what activities make good 
appearances with the least effort. The prep 
value system is now as natural as wearing 
loafers without socks. Graduation from
prep school puts our preppy in the best years 
of his or her life. Getting into the college of 
your choice can be tough, but if there are 
campus buildings named after your ances­
tors, you’re a shoe-in. Choosing a major and 
decorating your dorm room are the next big 
steps, as are drinking, spending, dressing 
right, and being seen watching and playing 
the right sports (lacrosse, yes; basketball, 
never.) Prep sex is discussed as are the Grand 
Tour and typical defiant behavior. What lies 
beyond the doors of your Alma Mater?
Dressing right (more madras), getting a job 
(daddy’s business, naturally), eating, and 
drinking (right stuff, right place, too much). 
Dressing prep is, by now, second nature - 
Top-Siders, natch, or L.L. Bean rubber 
mocs, pink and green and garish combina­
tions all make the scene as do navy blue 
blazers and kilts. Getting a job in daddy’s 
firm is a cinch, natch. Eating is made easy 
(made easy?) by your help. Drinking is 
always easy. The years pass, and the hand­
book finishes with descriptions of home­
coming tailgate parties (in your family’s 
woody wagon), clubbing, and growing old 
stylishly, ready to help your own kids from 
birth to death in prepdom.
CHAPTER SUMMARIES
Chapter 1 - The Right Of The Birthright: 
The Years at Home
The prep-kid’s family described, the 
environment (Big house in the country, see 
preppy suburb list, p. 188), and youthful 
style of dress and activities prescribed. Pets of 
class are listed, and daddy’s financial prepa­
rations for the young prep’s future are 
detailed. The prep value system is defined: 
Consistency, Nonchalance, Charm, Drink­
ing, Effortlessness, Athleticism, Discipline, 
and Public Spiritedness. Etiquette and the 
Deb scene are explained. The best activities 
for pre-prep-school-preps are: riding lessons 
(good chance for costly gear acquisition), 
summer camp (gets kids out of mummy 8c 
daddy’s hair), piano and ballet lessons (just 
the right bohemian touch, and an excuse for 
the Steinway), tennis, sailing, and French 
lessons (all lead to a well-prepared prep, 
ready for any social situation - provide the je 
ne sais quoi that makes preps preppy.) 
Chapter 2 - The Root of All Prep: 
The Years at School
The history of prep schools: First founded 
in 1635, but not as preppy as we know them 
until the heyday of drinking as a sport, deb 
parties as necessity, and social excess as order 
of the day. Not until getting thrown out 
became vogue had prep schools, as we know 
and love* them, arrived. The tough choices - 
Boarding vs. Day and Single-sex vs. Coed (or 
play-college vs. expensive high school and’ 
no sex vs. no sex, but there’s always a 
chance) - are argued. Style ¿(clothes, activi­
ties) are described. The very best schools - 
Prep schools as opposed to mere 
preparatory schools - are listed. Interview 
do’s (name appropriate friends and relatives 
who loved the school) and don’ts (never 
inquire about overnight and weekend
leaves) are listed to help the pre-prep get in. 
Classes (minimal value) and sports (mondo 
prep) must be carefully chosen to maximise 
appearance with minimum effort. Choos­
ing classes where Biff notes will get you by 
and sports with costly equipment will keep 
the prep in good stead. There are dozens of 
ways to get kicked out (just like daddy); they 
are all here, including cheating, flunking, 
and the ever-popular nocturnal escapes. 
Time off (rare and valued) is spent with 
mummy and daddy now - on the slopes in 
the winter, and on the shore in summer - 
important: Nantucket-map belts are key 
souveniers, and ski apparrel is tres chic worn 
off the slopes.
continued on page 8
pwg Issu ,q rvv yfgd
PREP I
The Basic Reading List
XLverv school specifies read­
ing lists for various courses in 
its curriculum, but to gain a 
fuller understanding of the 
world of the school itself— 
and the sort of life for which 
it prepares you — try the 
below-listed fare: books about 
Prep schools, books read in 
Prep schools, books by Prep­
pies, books about the joys and 
miseries of being Prep.
REQUIRED
THE CATCHER IN THE RYE
J D. Salinger
A SEkARATE kEACE
John Knuwle >
THE kRIME OF
TOM BROWN’S 
SCHOOLDAYS
Thtmas Hughes
THIS SIDE OF kARADISEand anyphmng else bv F. Scott Fttigrraid
LOVE STORY 
Ench Segal
DECLINE AND FALL and anyphmng else by 
F.zrtyn Waugh
I HE HEADM ASTER 
John MfPhet
THE STORIES OF JOHN CHEEVER and anyphmng else bv 
John Ch£*r
LAWRENCE VILLE STORIES
Ou>en Johnson
THE BELLES OF 
ST TRIMAN S 
Ranald Searle
THE Di>E OF DECEkTION 
Groffrn Wolff
THE WORLD ACCORDING TOGARk 
John Intng
Anyphmng by George Plimpton
Col eggPrPsS vilccT hs.Baddn
.gefUT The boy is on 
the left; the girl, 
right. For the first 
time they are in a 
community of many 
different types of 
people, and this very 
functional uniform 
helps them to iden­
tify one another in 
the crowd. By now 
they have learned 
that they are differ­
ent from everyone 
else, and they band 
together in a group 
even more tightly knit 
than their sweaters.
dark green Lacoste shirt 
collar up, defying gravity
extra crocodile 
added in 
lewd position
pink oxford 
cloth shirt
green down vest 
(the temperature
the bench has been stolen 5 times 
already this year, and is now bolted 
into the sidewalk
ambush for pouring beer an
Col Dly, -lsiy eg -dxi pPgl
yfgd ygfUsle
short hair 
$ (stays out of 
her eyes during 
squash games)
gold hoop earrings, concession to femininity 
navy blue cotton Skyr turtleneck 
collar pulled up to chin
Fair Isle sweater, blue with yellow yoke — 
her mother's, bought in Edinburgh in 1962
\ yellow oxford cloth shirt, monogrammed on 
1 pocket—cuffs turned back over sweater
with three sleeves, 
it’s hard to bend your arms
old Timex mens watch with 
blue and green ribbon band
in pockets: 
keys to Jeep; ID with forged year;) '
phone number of JoAnne, a typist; 
slip of paper with call number 
of book but not the title;
$4.?9
in pockets of khakis:
Trident gum, cinnamon flavor; 
keys to room;
ticket stubs from an ice hockey game; 
$3.62

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—January 20, 1981
More notes: “Prep sex —a contradiction in termsyy
continued from page 7
Chapter 3 - The Best Years Of Your Life: 
The College Years
Getting in - to the appropriately preppy 
school of choice - is more important in col­
lege than in Prep School. The top ten prep 
schools are listed, as are the second ten and 
ten least preppy. Ivy or not Ivy - an impor­
tant question! Choosing a major is des­
cribed - getting by is the key: remember 
grades, not education, are the key. First, 
choose a major. Next, decorate your dorm 
(fear not, rules for proper preppy decora­
tions included). Next, and most important, 
“Eat, drink, and be exclusive!” Sports are 
majorly important. Key, even. Crew is best, 
soccer and rugby close, and squash, tennis, 
lacrosse and the rest are excellent, really 
excellent, too. Prep sex (a contradiction in 
terms) is described in great detail: No PLA, 
do not take advantage of a prep house, do it 
properly (discreetly). Stay at her room, and 
show up at breakfast with her the next day. 
Parties must be excessive and large - plan 
carefully according to the themes presented. 
Getting out - into the world - is the last 
passage. Go to Europe. Come back for 
homecoming - know two or three words of 
the Alma Mater.
Chapter 4 - Dressing The Part:
The Basic Look
The fashion fundamentals are listed: 
Conservatism (the clothes never change); 
Neatness (stay pressed and tucked and pol­
ished); Attention to detail (No polyester, 
change your watchband to match your belt 
which matches every thing else); Practicality 
(just be sensible); Quality (they never go out 
of style, so make ’em last); Natural fibers 
(they are expensive to own and care for); 
Anglophilia (if it’s British, it’s good); Spe­
cific Color Blindness (Pink and green go 
together in Prepland); the Sporting look 
(whether sporting or working - always in); 
Androgyny (Bif and Bootsy dress the same, 
except for kilts for the lassies). Fabrics are 
garish or have little tiny ducks or roses or 
tennis racquets or whales or daisies or frogs 
or hearts or dots or acoms or elephants or 
butterflies or strawberries all over them.
Monograms are everywhere (there’s a list of 
good places on p. 125). In all things, 
mummy knows best, daddy second best. We 
don’t have to mention Izod, do we? Shet- 
lands are key. Women’s and men’s clothes 
are detailed from Navy blue anything to
Pappagallo Blossom shoes, and Men’s from 
Boxer shorts to Bean Bludners. A “ Where - 
to-shop” list will guide even the most lost 
prep to the best stores, and the “How to Talk 
to a Salesperson” will prevent a purchasing 
faux pas. The chapter closes with “The 
virtues of pink and green.”
Chapter 5 - The Real World:
The Young Executive Years 
Decorating your first apartment (with 
stuff from home, college, and prep school, 
not to mention daddy’s yacht, etc.). Parties 
are a prep must - do it right: wild dancing, 
monda bloodies, inappropriate behavior. 
Vacations must be carefully planned - go to 
the right places (Nantucket, Bermuda, et al). 
Do the right things (drink, et al). A wedding 
guide is included, as is the proper method 
for displaying the loot.
Chapter 6 - You’re All Grown Up Now: 
The Country Club Years 
Life moves into the slow lane and onto 
the greens. Selecting a suburb can be tough 
(list, p. 188) - it’s got to be exclusive, but not 
too trendy. Get a station wagon - great for 
the kids, and room enough for the flats of 
pansies to border the front walk. Besides, 
many clubs require a wagon for member­
ship. Hobbies, especially collecting (any­
thing silver, gold, or glass),gardening, and 
shopping cannot be stressed enough., 
Belong to a good club. Get a too-dark tan. 
Let your hairline recede. Get sun spots. Yel­
low replaces pink in the reclining years - 
from your Izod to the cute little tennis 
racquets on your cuffed poplin pants. 
Mondo Brylcreem. She should wear his 
blazer (over shoulders) and a long patch­
work wrap-around skirt. Be successful. Keep
in touch wih the old network (see page 194- 
195). The school(s) will hound you for big 
bucks - give in. It’s for your kids. Buy a 
Volvo. Summer on the Cape. Sail. Win.
Chapter 7 - Prep Spoken Here 
This final, brief chapter details the vocal 
styles, terms, and underlying attitudes of 
preppism; study them in great detail. Non- 
preps need not bother - it’s in-bred. Study 
the Lexicon of terms like “a little tongue 
sushi” and “darky”. Use them properly. It’s 
key to use these major terms in a big way, so 
you don’t turn into a dark, whose arch 
behavior is a howl to other preppies.
The Official Preppy Handbook is available 
at the CMU Bookstore for $3.95. It’s pub­
lished by Workman Publishing in New 
York, of course, by, for and about preppies. 
Really.
13 hours to Boston
One week conference tightens group’s ties
by Kathy Krummert
It was Christmas night and the cold front 
had passed through earlier, leaving behind 
biting, icy winds and snow squalls. Colored 
lights twinkled dimly through the blur of 
snow.The roads were almost untraveled. 
After all, it was Christmas.
The first four left Pittsburgh in their 
rented Cutlass on that night, headed for Bos­
ton. The following morning, the remaining 
ten left, they too in their too-small rented 
cars, the snow higher and the wind colder, 
headed in the same direction. Fourteen 
people were leaving their homes in the mid­
dle of the Christmas holiday to drive 13 
hours to Boston to attend a conference. No 
doubt some secretly questioned the worth of 
it all when darkness fell on unlit turnpike 
roads , when car engines refused to start, and 
when luggage didn’t fit in the trunk and had 
to be sandwiched in between the car’s 
passengers.
Before this trip, few of them were espe­
cially close acquaintances. They knew each 
other from campus life and activities and 
that was about it.
After a series of McDonald’s time-outs for 
nourishment and other necessities, and an 
over-night in a freezing Howard Johnson’s 
complete vyith frozen water pipes, the three 
cars reached their destination within hours
of each other, and found the weather to be 
much the same in Boston. Miserable .But 
they were soon put to ease; the Copley Plaza 
Hotel in downtown Boston accomodated 
them very well, asit did for the 400and some 
other students that they were joining.
The lobby hung full with chandeliers, 
and mirrors sparkled. The little rest they got 
was in very' comfortable rooms and the rich 
food they ate was served by courteous and 
skilled waiters. While mingling with the 
others, they mingled among themselves too, 
joining each other in work, during meals, 
and for social events. Their busy agenda 
included things like dinner at the Harvard 
Club, followed by a speech by former U.S. 
Attorney General, Elliot Richardson; a 
dance at the renovated marketplace, Fanueil 
Hall; talks from learned representatives of 
corporations and Harvard faculty; some­
times rowdy, sometimes formal parties; and 
tours of the city.
Besides the things they learned from the 
multitudes of other guests, lecturers, and 
ongoing events, they learned a lot of things 
about one another: who hated Chinese food; 
the hilarious straight-faced humor of others; 
the hidden personalities revealed only when 
their owners held a beer in each hand; the 
antics in the hotel hallways when the clock 
struck 3:00 a.m., and on and on. . .
In the course of a mere six days, those 14 
became a close-knit bunch. They had braved 
the Arctic blasts and arrived at a convention 
as a delegation representing. CMU, and 
proudly remained that way throughout. But 
when they left Boston, having sampled the 
flavor and hospitality of that dynamic city 
and their Harvard hosts, having completed 
attendance at an exhausting conference and 
been rewarded with the national honor of 
being the best, having come to know one 
another, they left as more than the 14 
acquaintances of different backgrounds and 
majors that came to represent CMU.
They pulled out of Boston one week later, 
by this time the snow higher and the wind 
colder there -too, in the same, too-small, 
rented cars, but this time those things were 
hardly noticed. Now they were leaving as 
one, and their Christmas departure was 
worth it after all.
The 14 were members of AIESEC, an inter­
national organization represented on the 
CMU campus, as well as on over 60 others 
across the U.S. They went to Boston to 
attend the national convention (hosted by 
the Harvard chapter), during which they 
were chosen, for the second year in a row, as 
the Most Outstanding Committee in the 
U.S.
The Bookstoredoes not sell Ddncin^ Lessons.
.but just about 
anything else!
CMU Bookstore
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUD
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOGS - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONOIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANOWICHES 
IMPORTS
’ BECKS LIGHT OR DARK 
Germany
* CARLSBURG MALT 
Oenmark
’ OORT HANSA Germany
* HOFBRAU Germany
’ FISCHER GOLO France
* HOISTEN LAGER Germany
* ST PAULI GIRL Germany
* SPATEN Germany
* RIGNES SPECIAL Norway
* SWAN LAGER Australia
* BASS ALE England
* MAC KESON STOUT 
England
* L0WEN8RAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England
* PILSNER UROUELL 
Czechoslovakia
* RIGNES Norway
' DOS EQUIS Mexico -
* PERONI Italy
* GUINESS STOUT Ireland
* GROLSCHE Holland
* GOSSER Austria
* SAN MIGUEL Phtllpmes
* KIRIN Japan
- MOLSON ALE Canada 
' KRAKUS Poland
* HEINEKEN IT 6 OK Holland 
' FOSTER S LAGER Australia
AND MANY OTHERS
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC 621-7388 or 621-1185
3001 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH., PA. 1S213
CALL 978-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

January 20, 1981—The Tartan—Page 9
Christmas vacation
It was the worst of times, it was the worst of times
by Bob Brenner
It was the worst of times. Ronnie Reagan 
was elected President of these United States, 
casting dark doubts about the ultimate san­
ity of the American public. John Lennon, 
one of the last remnants of the Sixties that 
had not turned completely rancid from old 
age, was blown away by a two-bit psycho­
path on a mission from Honolulu. My own 
personal fortunes were down the toilet: 
finals were like some blistering fevered 
nightmare, filled with threatening and 
unintelligible shapes. I sat huddled down at 
the Pittsburgh Airport, a trembling bundle 
of bent nerves and raw brain cells, vaguely 
toying with the idea of joining the Hari 
Krishna.
My flight home to New York and relative 
safety wasn’t for another five hours. No mat­
ter — i couldn’t bear spending another five 
minutes at CMU. The place made my flesh 
crawl. Someone had scrawled “The End Is 
Near” on the outside of Scaife Hall, very 
Apocalypse Now stylish, and I was just 
beginning to explore the amazing parallels 
between my tenure at Camegie-Mellon and 
this country’s involvement in Vietnam 
(went in with the best of intentions; damn 
thing kept escalating; no way to escape with 
honor), when the airport lounge was sud­
denly swarming with young marines on 
holiday leave — dozens of green-suited skin­
heads groomed for violence.
I couldn’t bear spending 
another five minutes at 
CMU. The place made my 
flesh crawl.
Trying not to shake too badly, I hid 
behind my copy of the Village Voice and 
waited for the monsters to go for me (A bad 
move, in retrospect: everyone knows only 
fairies and elves read that rag). But the antic­
ipated mutilation never came. Probably just 
got down my description, I thought to 
myself. Probably just waiting till after the 
Inauguration to begin the Big Cleanup.
Being home was tense. I got on my par­
ents’ nerves and they got on mine. Worse, 
Ronnie was all over the news. You couldn’t 
turn around without seeing his wrinkled- 
prune face plastered somewhere. He made 
the cover of Time as “Man of the Year.” 
Swell — last year they had the Ayatollah 
Khomeini. He called the Iranians “barbar­
ians.” Transition team spokespersons were 
quick to chime in that the remark was care­
fully thought out and planned in advance.
Ronnie: No, I don’t mind... 
what if I call the Iranians 
a pack of wimps?
Ronnie: Well, Ed, what if I called them 
shit-heads?
Ed: Can’t do that sir, not subtle enough. It 
will give fodder to those who are calling you 
a senile cowboy bonzo. If you don’t-mind me 
saying so, sir, your language has taken a 
turn for the worse ever since that trip to the 
South Bronx...
Ronnie: No, I don’t mind... what if I 
called the Iranians a pack of w imps?
Ed: Won’t sell, sir. They’re the ones who 
undermined our masculinity by kidnap­
ping the hostages. Wimps, fairies, queers, 
elves, hairdressers, those are all out.
Ronnie: Well, what if I just said they were 
anti-family?
Yeah, yeah, the hostages. The Hostages. 
They turned the Christmas tree on at the 
Whitehouse for 52 seconds or 1025 seconds 
(for the number of days captivity), or some 
silly symbolic gesture like that on Christmas 
eve... and Uncle Walt, tirelessly, relentlessly, 
like some pre-programmed mechanism left 
in a crater on an alien planet as a warning, 
continued to grind out the days at the end of 
each newscast: “day number 1025 of captiv­
ity... day number 1026 of «captivity... day 
number 1027 of captivity...” That’s the way 
it was.
I saw in the window of a bar a sign that
said
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH 
BRING THEM HOME NOW 
along with an American flag. Americans 
seem to have developed a kind of hostage- 
mania (“Not the actual embassy personnel, 
but a fabulous recreation...”), something to 
occupy ourselves with while the economy 
goes slowly down the drain. On that subject, 
Chrysler announced that we better all start 
thinking Japanese, and the banks declared 
that henceforth they would only lend 
money to rich people. It’s only a matter of 
time — I give it five years at the outside — 
that the whole rotten spoiled dream goes up 
in smoke...
Then its back to the barter system.
I heard on the radio that there wrould be 
some sort of anti-draft registration protest in 
New York City on January fifth to coincide 
with the latest round of enrollees. Should I 
go? Participate in the democratic process? 
Maybe get my head busted in for old times 
sake?
by Maureen Brennan
All CMU females in their junior year of 
study are eligible for the Vira L. Heinz 
Travel Award. Originated in 1957 as a $1000 
award, presently 11 colleges receive $2500 to 
award deserving applicants. CMU has been 
a participant since 1967.
The scholarship is awarded for summer 
study and travel between the recipient’s jun­
ior and senior year. Each applicant must 
submit a detailed proposal of their plans to 
be considered by the judging committee. 
This year’s committee is Dean Lois Cox, 
Dean Betty Lloyd, and Miss Campbell, 
Assistant Director of Financial Aid.
While students from all majors are eligi­
ble, only about 10 girls applied last year. 
The majority of former award winners from
The moming of January fifth was cold 
and snowflakes were falling; I stayed at 
home in bed with a good book.
Uncle Walt, like some pre­
programmed mechanism left 
in a crater on an alien planet 
as a warning...
So where was I when it was time to be 
counted on the barricades, or at least the post 
office steps? — Safe and snug at home in the 
suburbs... and I think I’m so goddamn revo­
lutionary because I sit around and listen to 
albums by The Clash. “For evil to triumph 
it is only necessary for good men to be 
silent,” or something like that.
Yeah.
Stupid potato. No wonder the madmen 
are in charge.
“Vacation” came to an end, as all “good” 
continued on page 10
CMU have used the Scholarship to study 
and travel in European countries. Tradi­
tionally, all the new and old awardees are 
invited to a luncheon with Mrs. Vira Heinz.
The formal purpose of the award is "... to 
have the recipient gain firsthand knowledge 
of international understanding and share 
their experiences with other members of the 
university upon their return.” Thus, appli­
cations will be judged on feasibility, poten­
tial for the applicant’s personal growth, and 
the applicant’s ability to portray their expe­
rience to the University community. Appli­
cations are not judged on basis of financial 
need or grade point average.
Applications are available in Dean Cox’s 
office in Warner Hall. Deadline for submis­
sion is January 30.
Female juniors eligible
$2500 travel award offered
£$800 
CD<D
a month 
until 
graduation
The Navy is seeking qualified male juniors and seniors to 
affiliate with the Nuclear Power Officer Candidate Program 
as undergraduates.
Applicants must have successfully completed a year of 
mathematics through integral calculus and a year of 
caluculus-based physics.
Successful applicants receive $800 per month until gra­
duation, then attend Officer Candidate School followed by 
a year or more of advanced nuclear training.
Contract obligation is 3 years following completion of train­
ing. Thirty days annual leave, non-taxable quarters and 
subsistence allowances, insurance, medical, dental 
package.
Send transcript and resume to:
Bill Wright
Navy Recruiting District 
Suite 711
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
or call in PA 1-800-242-3736, WV, OH, MD 1-800-245- 
1771. -
f TmE FûLl owing BROADCAST CONTA IN &$hglgU sq g2dohTMu Ug2oevMutT
DUE TO MATURE &UB0ECT HATTER,
yefgluev dM5hfguMsl M5 ekaMUgkT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—January 20, 1981
George Gee is back with big band sounds of the 1940s
Last year’s carnival theme, “New7 York, New' 
York,” offered him the perfect opportunity, 
for w here else can one best imagine the big 
ballroom bands in their heyday but in New’ 
York?
In five weeks, Gee organized a 17 member 
orchestra that performed as part of the Gong 
Show under the Big Top at Spring Carni­
val. After “In the Mood,” and “Moonlight 
Serenade,” the crowd that filled the ten! 
roared its approval with shouts of “encore,” 
clapping, and cheering. Not one gong 
sounded.
Over the summer and fall months that 
Gee has spent in New York since then, he 
has broadened his range of experience and 
knowledge of Big Band. He DJed at one Big 
Band Station and served as a sound engineer 
at another. He even directed a group of pro­
fessional musicians in the Big Band format 
for some time.
learned and the management know-how he 
accumulated. He says his life “revolves 
around the music-it’s happy music that 
originated after the Depression during 
WWII.” It was the distraction people needed 
from the war and all that was going on-“it 
was an outlet,”
Gee returns with not only his radio pro­
gram, but with his Make-Believe Ballroom 
Orchestra as well. He sees inspiration as an 
essential element uniting a collection of 
musicians, be they amateur or professional, 
and is certain that he has found inspired 
people, in the talents of both music and 
non-music majors. Rehearsals are scheduled 
and plans are being made to play both on 
and off campus. Mark Andrew s is responsi­
ble for all business arrangements, and David 
Kaplowitz is Gee’s musical director and a 
tenor saxophone player with the orchestra. 
Gee also intends to add male and female 
vocals and a three-part harmonizing group.
by Kathy Krummert
Welcome to the sounds of the 1940s, to the 
age of the Big Band orchestras and swing, to 
the Andrew Sisters and war-time romance, 
and to the toe-tapping sounds of “George 
Gee and His Make-Believe Ballroom.” Gee, 
an AMS major, returns to WRCT this 
semester on Wednesday evenings from 6-9 
p.m. with the sound of Big Band music.
His program originated in the spring of 
1979, when his love of Big Band took shape
in the form of his own “George Gee and His 
Make-Believe Ballroom” on WRCT. His 
was the first of its kind in the local area, on 
which he played solely Big Band, including 
greats like Dorsey, Miller, Basie and Good­
man. He continued the show through last 
spring, when two months before Spring 
Carnival his endeavors assumed even larger 
proportions. He wanted to turn make- 
believe into reality; he wanted a real orches­
tra in time to perform for the carnival goers.
BLOOD BEACH
JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE 
TO GO BACK IN THE WATER-----YOU CAN’T GET TO IT.
JERRY GROSS PRESENTS A SF RUN RUN SHAW SIDNEY BECKERMAN PRDDUCIOi "BLOOD BEACH"
** m JERYGO¦ mm JSFFU jaw NGHAOU NWIRGO DIBGNCJU mWKMEO" L
ORCTED BY JEFFHY BLOOM-PRODUCED BY STEVEN MflN«Y*EKaflK PRODUCER SPtY ttCKEIHAN’SCHEEIftff BY JEFFREY OOK 
STORY BY JEFFREY BUOdl if!) SliltN IWiWfliY • HflC BY HiLLf • KTROCOLOR • OKTRBUTED BYllHE JERRY GROSS OWGftWZATPNl II „r.’ZT-S»CS A I* ML Mm • -Starts Friday, January 23 at a theatre near you.
It was the worst of times...
continued from page 9
things must. Made the long journey back to 
Pittsburgh by car, with a swing through 
Oberlin, Ohio to see an old friend. It seemed 
to me that there was snow everywhere — 
winter wasteland, very existential. What was 
I doing going back to CMU? Come de rei>o-
lution, boy, dey won’t need no technical 
writers. I should be learning something 
important — like how to make shrapnel 
bombs. But my folks wouldn’t understand 
me throwing it all away now , and I’m not 
sure I have the balls to take that step, either...
One more lousy semester.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Man Vs. Man Vs. Nature: Terra Nova at the Public
by Adam Lauzar
Playing at the Pittsburgh Public Theater 
from January 1 to Feb. 15 is the play Terra 
Nova by Ted Tally. Terra Nova is a play 
about a race between the English explorer 
Captain Robert Falcon Scott and the Nor­
wegian explorer Roald Amundsen to be the 
first to the south pole. The play centers 
around the different strategies used by each 
explorer to reach the icy antarctic and the 
personal motivations that drive each 
explorer to face the terrible dangers in mak­
ing the trip. The audience follows the action 
as seen through the eyes of Captain Scott, 
played very stoicly and in the proper Eng­
lish mold by Jack Ryland. Roald Amund­
sen, played by Berkeley Harris, in a terse and 
explosive manner, continually pops in and 
out of the action to both taunt the Captain 
and to share with the Captain the pains and 
ecstacies of the treacherous trip. The other 
leading characters in the play are: Shaine 
Marinson as Kathleen Bruce Scott, the Cap­
tain’s wife, who plays in one of the most 
humerous “love-wooing” scenes with the
Captain that I have ever seen; and the four 
explorers that ac company Captain Scott are: 
Gary McGurk very funny,and revealing of 
the human nature as Henry Robertson (Bir­
die) Bowers; Steven Sutherland as the strong 
and fiercely proud Dr. Edward Adrian (Bill) 
Wilson; Edward Seamon as the loyal and 
brave soldier Lawrence Edward Grace 
(Titus) Oates; and finally John C. Vennema 
as the frostbitten but always fighting on 
Edgar (Taffy) Evans.
The play brings up several very interest­
ing ideas concerning the pride, psyche, and 
internal struggles that make up the extraor­
dinary', independent,and gifted mind of the 
explorer. The play write tries to expose and 
understand thq drives and needs of these* 
characters. Clearly there is a kind of person 
who undertakes great dangers, pressures and 
responsibilities to reach out to try and touch 
the unknown, to explore enigmas and there 
are those, like* most of us who are content to 
live on our terra firma, so to speak, rhis 
then, is what the play is really about; that 
obsessive need to go beyond what is 
knownn, the status quo, to reach out and lx‘
Playhouse bats .500
by Paul Smith
Jason Miller's play, That Championship 
Season, currently in production at the Pitts-
¦ burgh Playhouse under direction of Tom 
1 Hischak, is one of the best plays of the seven- 
I ties. It examines American notions of com- 
I petition, success, and comradeship, and the 
I falseness, behind them. It is a play worth 
I seeing, but the Playhousc*’s production is 
I flawed, enough so to detrac t a bit from the 
I play’s impact.
Hie ac tion takes place in 1972at thereun-
¦ ion of a champion high school basketball 
I team. The coac h and four of the players are
present. The coach is now retired, and his 
I “boys” are in their late thirties. They begin 
| the evening with superficial friendliness, 
| but s<x>n hostilities emerge. They are trig- 
| gered by disc ussion of the re-elec tion cam­
paign of George, one of the “boys” who is 
i now mayor of the town. George is played by 
Robert Spanabel, who is very capable. His 
| twite hy, smily, overbearing manner works,
Auditions!
IFelicia Pratto, the president of Scotch and 
I Soda, Gu nc\gie-MelIon’s 51 year old drama 
I club, has announced auditions for the 
I annual spring musical. This year’s musical 
Protege is by music stude*m Collette Silvestri 
and will be directed by Bennett Fidlow-
Auditions, to be* held 1 PM, Saturday Jan- 
uary 2*1 in Skibo Ballroom, are open to the 
entire* campus community. Auditioners 
should pre pare a song and wear c omfortable 
clothing ih which they can move around. 
I hey will lx- e*xjx‘cted to do a cold reading 
from a prepued script as well as improvisa­
tions and movement.
Singing and non-singing roles are* availa­
ble in leads and supporting parts. Also 
wanted are* soft-shoe dancers, magicians, 
jugglers and anyone with sjx*eial theatricaj 
talent.
1 here will lx* a production and orchestra 
mee ting on January SI. nu teareo|x*nings 
lor instrumentalists, rehearsal pianist, tevh- 
nical director, designers and all new jx>si- 
tions as well as stage manager. lx>\ olliee 
and publicity |x>siiions. Almost any asjxtl 
of the theatre* ot interest to a CMU student 
can lx- explored through the1 Scotch and 
Soda Drama Club.
Needed immediately is an assistant diret - 
•oi and < horeographci. For more inlonna- 
tion stop b\ the S’n’Soliice at lOD Skibooi 
«all \3522.
and George bc*comes the most believable, 
human character.
Hugh Rose plays James Daily, who is 
now a schcx)l principal and manager of 
George’s apparently doome*d campaign. 
James is probably the most complex charac­
ter, a man who has taken orders and 
assumed responsibilities for his whole life. 
In the course of the play, he finds that the* 
respect he has been seeking eludes him just 
bet a use1 he has al ways done* what people* 
told him to do. But when the charife comes 
for him to break that pattern, he can’t. Mr 
Rose’s portrayal, however, is tcx> unassured 
to be* believable, and is one of the weak 
points of the show7.
James’ brother Tom is played by Richard 
Raugh, who turns in the show’s strongest 
performance. Raugh is convincing and 
funny as the alcoholic “worthless” one* of 
the group. Tom gets progressively drunker 
through the play, and Raugh is controlled 
enough to do it well and without exaggera­
tion. Another strong jx*rformance is given 
by Raymond Iaine as Phil Romano, the 
wealthy member who no longer wants to 
back (k*orge*’s4esing campaign. He is the 
only character who is not desjxrate, Laime 
shows this without making him cold.
k.Y. Mellot is passable as the coach, the* 
old-fashioned, bigote*d, loving, tyrant whose 
control over the “boys” is still apparent. His 
continuous judgement-passing and com- 
meiitary on the mexlcTn world is amusing in 
ihe first two acts, but wlie'ii the focus is 
shifted to him in the* third lie1 dex'sn’t cany 
the show as he should. Iliis is unfortunate 
lxvause the viewer fe*e*ls lie is Ixing asked to 
sympathize1 with someone he dex'sn’t partic­
ularly want to sympathize with.
In spite of the se- problems, the strength of 
the1 play itself makes the Playhouse ’s pro­
duction a worthwhile evening of theatre. 
Flic* Pulitzer Prize w inning play will run 
this weekend at the* Pittsburgh Playhouse 
I heatie c e nter on Craft Ave nue. Showtimes 
are* Thursday through Sunday at 8 PM and 
Saturday and Sunday at 2:30. Fot tickets and 
information, call 621-4115.
Entertainment Staff 
Meeting
tonight at 9 p.m. 
Room 50 Skibo 
No refreshments
everyone is imnted, if unable to attend, call 
x21ll or 683-2273
bom again, to grow again.
Somehow' the very historical content of 
the play doesn’t allow' for many very melo­
dramatic moments so that one feels as 
though one is watching a history' book come 
alive. Fortunately though, the direction by 
Peter Wexler keeps the pace fast and tense 
and exciting, and beyond that even, the 
event itself is more that stimulating enough 
to ke*ep one interested and involved. The 
actors do all in their power to make the 
characters come* to life and succeed in doing 
so; as much as the script allows for. The 
stage set and the* lighting for the play are
both simple and innovative. The special 
effects and the sound effects are very real and 
make one feel as though one is right there 
with the explorers, in the antarctic, strug­
gling along though w ind and snow' storms.
On the whole the play is well worth see­
ing because of the very accuracy7 and truth in 
which the historical event is portrayed. One 
learns a little about the English and their 
manners and one also leams about the 
explorer. The explorer, so important to the 
founding of our world, our country, and 
most importantly ourselves. All in all: a 
most pleasant evening.
Sundays in DH2210 at 2 p.m.
Activities Board has announced its sche­
dule of films for Spring 1981, and in addi­
tion to the Thursday and Friday night series, 
AB will offer a season of films on Sunday 
aftemcx>n, called Sunday Afternoon at the 
Movies. Friday films features recent popular 
films with mass appeal w'hile Thursday 
Film Arts caters to more esoteric tastes, 
showcasing foreign films and American “art 
films.”
According to Alison Eichman, Sunday 
Films chairman, there has been a large 
demand for older classic American movies 
on campus for some time. Up till now, how ­
ever, there has been no distinct forum on 
campus for oldc*r films. AB’s monetary suc­
cess with Friday Films has allowed it to 
expand its schedule and establish the Sun­
day Series. From time to time, Thursday 
Film Arts screens an American classic, but 
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies will be 
devoted to the genre. The new film series 
will feature the c lassic American movies that 
are traditionally shown Sunday aftemcx>ns 
100 television. Now students can see these 
films uncut, uninterrupted and on a big 
screen.
Friday Films chairman John Woolridge 
has assembled another series of hallbuster 
films for this semester, including this weeks 
showing of Moonraker, Apocalypse Now 
on February 6 and Fame on April 24.
Highlighting this semester’s schedule of 
Thursday Films are recent, highly 
acclaimed foreign films: Ingmar Bergman’s 
Autumn Sonata, My Brilliant Career, an 
Australian film and The Tin Drum. Bette 
Davis will be* the* featured actress this semes­
ter when her academy award winning role 
in Jezebel is screened.
rhe Sunday Film sc hedule features a bal­
ance* of musicals like Singin’ in The Ram 
and Meet Me in St. Louis, comedies, includ­
ing an Abbott and Costello double feature
and high drama, like Bette Davis ’Dark Vic­
tory.
Note: The Thursday Film Arts calendar was 
not available at press time.
Friday Films
All films in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID. 
January 23 Moonraker 6,8,10, and 12 
January 30 Murder on the Orient Express
6,8:30 and 11
February 6 Apocalypse Now 6,9 and 12 ($2) 
February 13 Simon 6,8,10 and 12 
February 20 Brubaker 6,8,10 and 12 
February 27 Coal Miner’s Daughter 6, 8:30 
and 11
March 6 The Kids are Alright 6,8,10 and 12 
March 13 Lord of the Rings 6,8:30 and 11 
April 3 Time after Time 6,8:30 and 11 
April 10 All That Jazz 6,8:30 and 11 
April 17 Friday the Thirteenth 6,8,10 and 12 
April 24 Fame 6,8:30 and 11 
May 1 Xanadu 6,8,10 and 12 
May 8 The Jerk 6,8,10 and 12
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies
All films are at 2 PM in DH 2210. 
Admission $1 with CMU ID,
January' 25 Cabin in the Sky 
February 1 Dark Victory 
February 8 Abbot and Costello double fea­
ture: One Night in the Tropics and The 
Time of Their Lives 
February' 15 Meet me in St. Louis 
February 22 Mister Roberts 
March 8 Alec Guiness double feature: The 
Ladykillers and The Lavender Hill Mob 
March 15 Finian’s Rainbow 
April 5 Easter Parade 
April 12 The Russians are Coming...
April 19 Singin* in the Rain
April 26 Oklahoma
May 3 Goodbye Mr. Chips
Kim and Reggie Harris will be appearing al the Activities Board Coffeehouse on Saturday January 
2-t at 9:10 p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Refreshments will be served.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—January 20, 1981
A Change of Seasons: What’s bad for the goose...
by Maria Barbuto
A Change of Seasons is one of the only 
movies of 1980 to accurately depict the com­
plicated but nonsensical relationships 
between the sexes during these modem spaz 
times. But in the course of enlightening us 
this movie tends to direct the audience’s 
attention towards some rather irrelevant 
inquiries. For example, one can’t imagine 
where Bo Derek purchased her repulsive 
snow bunny ski suit that looks like some­
thing you’d find in a strange refrigerator. 
And why does Anthony Hopkins have a 
square head? But the killer question is how 
much do college professors really make?
As for the actual movie, it concerns a mid­
dle aged college professor named Adam 
Evans (played by the very geometric Mr. 
Hopkins) and his constantly cackling wife 
Karen (Shirley Maclaine). Together these 
two must deal with the prof’s little fling 
(with guess who?) and Karen’s resentment 
towards her husband plus her fling with 
some nature boy who she finds in her kit­
chen one morning. But their worst problem 
is their prepped-out obnoxious daughter 
who is a dead ringer for Flipper the dolphin. 
Wearing her chinos and “duck” shoes, she 
pops into her parents’ posh country bun­
galow ($$$) and catches everyone, i.e. Bo,
Scantily Clad opens
by Alexander Czajkowski
“It’s always a woman who is ‘standing in 
the doorway, Scantily Clad,’ you never hear 
of a man ‘Scantily Clad,’ Allison Goodman 
explained when asked about the title of her
show with Donna Scarpellino and Binny 
Kelly at the Forbes Street Gallery whicht 
opens tonight, (1/20) at 7:00 p.m. and runs 
until Sunday. Goodman and Scarpellino 
are both Graphic Designers, Kelly is in 
Industrial Design, but the exhibition will 
consist of more than projects for class.
“Our show consists of our work and wha­
tever we do with the Gallery itself to facili­
tate interesting viewing,” Scarpellino said 
in response to how these three disigners 
would use the Gallery space. “We will be 
breaking up the space in the Gallery via 
temporary walls, banners, et cetera,” she 
continued. “We don’t want people to come 
in, bounce off four walls and leave.”
Other than their shared department, there 
is liule connection between the girls’ work. 
Scarpellino will have some landscape paint­
ings, mixed-media drawings, paper-work—
projects from her recent paper class— a 
photo-essay laid out in flats, and some 
mushroom drawings.
Allison Goodman’s emphasis is in typo­
graphy, and she will be showing some of her 
freelance projects; for Student Activities 
Board and the National Conference of 
Deans, and her personal favorite, a promo­
tional poster for the Performing Arts. She 
will also have some of her paperwork from 
her recent class, and black and white photos.
The Industrial Designer of the group, 
Binny Kelly, will put on exhibit a propane 
fueled portable heater she designed, wood 
sculptures, a series of photographs and her 
piece-de-resistance, her “Three Rivers 
Table” designed under the forebearing eye 
and expertise of Artist/Designer Gaetano 
Pesce, who taught on campus last spring.
“Scantily Clad” is not intended to be any 
kind of inference; the title as well as the 
show is to be taken seriously. If they manage 
to convey the same confidence in the Gallery 
that they do in the studio, the show will be a 
real pleasure.
Adam, Karen and organic Pete in action.
She immediately spazzes out all over the 
place and just can’t handle the situation.
Then she goes and runs off with a buffalo 
faced reject from the ’67 Summer of Love.
But at least she doesn’t come back.
Shirley Maclaine definitely has the most 
talent in this cast. She manages to snare a 
rather handsome lumberjack type (Pete) and 
after dumping him, secures another one. All 
this after dealing with iguana breath Bo 
Derek’s ominous presence and her hus­
band’s neurosis. That takes talent. Her only 
downfall is her utterly revolting laugh. It all 
started after she picked up Pete. They were 
lying there playing this silly game called 
“trust me” (Pete’s ideaf and she just started 
to laugh. Then he joined in and it sounded 
like the emergency room at a squirrel 
hospital.
But Shirley’s laugh is certainly more toler­
able than Bo Derek’s vacuum cleaner person­
ality. Bo, fresh out of the John Davidson 
school of Acting, comes off like deep-fried 
beach towel in this flick. You just get this 
tremendous urge to cram a dead tuna fish up 
her nose. For over half of the movie, she goes 
roaring around in her Porsche, whisking 
down mountain sides in her wretched ski 
suit and with all the class of used Saran 
wrap. You just don’t know whether to like 
her, feel sorry for her or just wish she’d go
SDC Pix Hix
away. In fact, she spends most of the picture 
desperately trying to seduce the Dr. Denton 
pajama clad Adam while she’d be better off 
wrestling with a Q-tip. Well, beaverteeth Bo 
really laid the big goose egg with this one.
Anthony Hopkins, who looks like he’s 
token too much Milk of Magnesia, does a 
credible job of portraying the fumbling pro­
fessor in the midst of a masculinity crisis. He 
is a man equally in love with two extremely 
opposite but equally bizarre women and of 
course, he gets burned by both in the end. 
When Adam finaly meets Bo’s playboy 
father Steve, it’s reminiscent of the much 
heralded Boo Berry/Count Chocula stand 
off. The awkwardness between these two 
men who are both involved with much 
younger women proves that these guys 
aren’t as liberated as thay think they are. 
And Adam just can’t cope when his wife 
ends up with the lobster loving Steve much 
to the delight of the audience. So the guy 
who started out with a really nice house, 
Shirley Maclaine and Bo Derek (not that 
that’s necessarily beneficial) ends up as the 
top moo on the dairy farm.
This film is mildly entertaining, some­
what cute and is very picturesque (some 
excellent footage of the New England win­
ter). But Shirley’s laugh and Bo’s plasticism 
make this project as artistic as an individu­
ally wrapped slice of cheese. Actually, I’ve 
seen better carpet commercials.
The Student Dormitory Council has 
announced its schedule of what are still the 
lowest priced movies on campus.
All shows at 6,8,10 and 12 in DH2210. $.50 
with CMU ID 
January 24 Frat House 
January 31 Malibu Beach
February 7 Catch 22 
February 14 Heroes 
March 7 Goodbye Columbus 
March 14 Bedtime for Bonzo 
April 4 Godspell 
April 11 Alice’s Restaurant 
April 18 Paper Chase 
April 25 Wizards
i
act now
At the corner of 
5850 Ellsworth 
and College
Celebrating our 2nd Anniversary with this offer.
363-0505
Shadyslde Nautilus Fitness Center
3 months 65.00 
6 months 99.00 
9 months 132.00 
12 months 160.00
Limited memberships available at these rates.
At Great "X" we're looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
HAIRCUTS
(Wosh-Cut-Blow)12 00
Mon.Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9
Sat. 9-6
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Aero« tho stroot from 
Oakland Post Offlco 
647-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No AppointmentsJ

---------------------------------------------------

FluidDynamics
LabChemistryAstrology
_ . January 20, 1981—The Tartan—Page 13
Seeing the Allman Brothers from a different angle
by Charley Rhodes
The debut of the new “Theatre Seating“ 
arrangement for concerts took place at the 
Civic Arena on January 13 as the Allman 
Brothers Band entertained Pittsburgh with a 
fine 90 minute show.
What group could better herald the 
advent of this long-needed change in the 
arena’s concert seating than the Allman 
Brothers Band? Country rock/blues has 
always been popular in the Pittsburgh area 
and the Allman Brothers have been an inte­
gral part of this popularity since their first 
album was released in 1969. The group fea­
tured a two-pronged led guitar attack in 
Dicky Betts and Duane Allman with brother 
Gregg Allman provided the classic bluesy 
rasp. Their effort eventually culminated 
with the release of Live at the Fillmore East, 
still revered as one of the best live recordings 
in the blues/rock genre.
But the Allman Brothers Band is not just 
another blues band, they have created a dis­
tinctive style, a method of playing the blues 
that sets them apart. There are elements to 
the typical Allman Brothers composition 
that makes it easily identifiable: extended 
crescendos, lingering guitar solos and shuf­
fling, halftime signatures. “Whipping 
Post” and “Dreams” are two songs that 
quickly come to mind as perfect examples of 
their style. When the former piece was per­
formed Tuesday night the crowd still loved 
it despite the song’s age. The crowd wanted 
to hear the Allman Brothers that night and 
that’s certainly the classic Allman Brothers 
song.
In fact, there wasn’t really a low point 
during the show. They played from many of 
their LP’s covering a wide time period. 
From “It’s Not My Cross to Bear,” and “One 
Way Out” through “Blue Sky” to “Can’t 
Take it With You” and “Pegasus;” the 
crowd on the floor was continuously stand­
ing. For the band was tight; you could tell 
that they have been playing together for
awhile.
The musicianship was not phenomenal, 
but it was more than adequate. Duane was 
the musician who is still considered to have 
been one of the best performers on the slide 
guitar, and I suspect that Dicky Betts has 
had better performances than Tuesday’s. 
But I also feel that strength of the Allman 
Brothers Band is (and always was) their style 
of composing their blues. Their arrange­
ments require a finely tuned band, not just a 
front man jamming away in front of a sub- 
par back-up group. The Allman Brothers 
string you along with their music, teasing 
with a fast lick here and then moving to 
something elso... then breaking into that 
slow shuffling drumbeat with the scream­
ing blues guitar. It’s music with foreplay 
before the climax. No wonder fans go crazy.
There were some diversions from the typi­
cal Allman Brothers formula including two 
appearances by the opening act John Ham­
mond on the harmonica, a fantastic drum-
tympani duet in “Pegasus”
But, the mainstay of the group (theclassic 
blues chord progressions) was still the most 
enjoyable part of the show and, despite the 
many criticisms concerning their latest 
releases, the formula clicked to provide an 
electrifying evening.
The closer proximity of the stage helped 
to bring more intimate personal feeling to 
the show. Instead of being tucked into one 
end of the Civie Arena, the stage was literally 
in the middle of the floor. To each side of the 
stage stood two large black curtains which 
walled out the rest of the arena. The effect 
was, successful and gave the show a theatre­
like aura. This seating arrangement should 
be used more often.
After the second encore, “Statesboro 
Blues,” was finished and the band left the 
stage it was clear that the Allman Brothers 
Band may not have won over a lot of new7 
fans but that they had undeniably satisfied 
the old ones.
STATISTICSINVESTMENTSURVEYINGNAVIGATIONAVIATION
MODULEMODULEMODULEMODULEMODULE
SECURITIESBUSINESSUl MATR¦ ELECTRICALRPNPOOL
ANALYSISDECISIONSÍV UTILITIES#¦ ENGINEERINGFARMINGSIMULATOR 1WATER
MODULEMODULEMODULEit MODULEMODULEMODULE 11 ANALYSIS
59 FunCivil v EngineeringBlackbodyRadiationOil/Gas/Energy
PrinterUtility3D Graphics
<*§Bmm
Production/ * Marketing/ I . ’ProgrammingPlanning j j Sales H Aids
Electronic Engineering | . 1 Mathematics
StatisticalTesting
Free software plus cadi rebates. 
A SH) rebate on a TI-58C—S25 rebate on aTI-59.
The TI-58C. An exceptional value.Up to 480 program steps or 60 mem­
ories. Plus Constant Memory™ that retains data when turned off. $130. 
The Tl-59. Tbp-of-the-Line.Up to 960 program steps or 100 
memories. Magnetic card read/ 
write capability. $300.
Modules turn a programmable 
into a dedicated calculator. Pakettes 
have selected programs you key in.
? I've bought a TI-58C Send me the one module and the 
one Rackette listed below, plus my $10 rebate
? I’ve bought a Tl-59. Send me the two modules and two
Packettes listed below, plus my $25 rebate 
MODULES:____________PAKETTES_____________
Name
Address
ALTERNATE____________ALTERNATE____________
Send to: 'tom Instruments Free Software Offer 
P.O. Box 725, Dept. M, Lubbock. Texas 79491Calculator Serial Number <from back of unit)
Return this coupon with (1) Customer Information Card (packed with calculator), (2) Dated copy of proof of purchase between 
January 1,1981 — March 31,1981 Items must be postmarked by April 14,1981 Please allow 30 days for delivery Offer void 
where prohibited Offer good in U S A Tl reserves the right to substitute items See your Tl Dealer for complete details
U.S. suggested retail prices. *For use with Tl-59 only.
© 1981 Texas Instruments IncorporatedBokst retFfwaoeFt
INCOR POR ATE D45748A
Free software ($50-$120 worth). Plus a cash rebate when you buy the programmable.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—January 20, 1981
Curtaincall_
Dusa, Fish, Stas and Vi
Theatre Express offers the Pittsburgh 
Premier of a play by contemporary Brit­
ish playwright Pam Gems for their third 
production of the season. Dusa, Fish, Stas 
and Vi are four women who share a flat in 
London. The four women come from dif­
ferent backgrounds and have different 
ambitions; some have children and some 
have lovers, but they are all trying desper­
ately to reach their goals.
The play will be directed by Theatre 
Express artistic director, Jed Harris. The 
four women are played by four Carnegie- 
Mellon University trained women, Lisa 
Bansavage, Janet Reed, Claudia Zahn 
and Pam Norris. Pam Norris is currently 
an undergraduate student. The others are 
graduates.
The winter of ’81 has hit Theatre 
Express with broken water pipes and 
flooding. Dusa, Fish, Stas and Vi will be 
Dresented at the Pittsburgh Playhouse
Theatre Downstairs on Craft Ave. Sub­
scribers will be affected by this alteration 
£nd should call Theatre Express at 621 -
5454.
Performances are Thursday through 
Sunday at 8:30 PM. The play will run 
through February 8.
Dracula: Sabbat
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre continues 
its season of plays by Leon Katz with Drac­
ula: Sabbat,an adaptation of the Dracula 
legend as a ritual play. In Katz’s unique 
vision, the audience will be made to feel as if 
it is undergoing a hallucination. This “trip” 
will involve a coven of witches who are 
trying to conjure up the Dracula legend.
A special feature of this production will 
be a musical rock score, composed and 
directed by CMU music major, Michelle 
Dibucci. Dibucci’s score will be played by a 
live six member rock band, including 5
CMU classical music students, 
s Frozen water pipes have delayed Dracula: 
Sabbat’s opening until Friday, January 23. 
The play will still run until February 8,
day afternoons at 8:30. The Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre is at 420 N. Craig Street 
(near the comer of Craig St. and Baum 
Blvd.) Call 621-2876 for reservations and
Thursday through Sunday at 8:00 and Sun- information.Dregs in Ballroom
The A.B. Concerts Committee will 
present “An Evening With the Dixie 
Dregs” on Sunday, February 8th at 8 pm 
in the Skibo Ballroom. Reserved seating 
tickets will go on sale tomorrow at 12 
noon by the Skibo Information Desk.
Formed five years ago by four students 
from the University of Miami, the Dixie 
Dregs have become one of the most 
widely acclaimed jazz rock fusion bands. 
Initially conceived as a instrumental jazz 
group, the Dregs raunchy, rock influence 
soon distinguished the band’s entertain­
ing sound. In 1977 the Dregs signed with 
Capricorn Records, a now defunct label
that also featured such Southern rock ( 
greats as The Allman Brothers Band. * 
While the lead guitar work of Steve 
Morse has distinct southern rock quali­
ties, the Dregs are probably more influ­
ence by the work of guitarists like John 
McLaughlin and Jeff Beck. Most of their 
performances are strictly instrumental 
with emphasis placed on the contribu­
tions of all the group’s members. While 
some perceive this trailblazing instru­
mental quintet’s material as rock and jazz 
“fusion,” the members don’t stop there. 
“We rarely think of labels,” says guitarist 
continued on page 17
The sharp whine of jet engines 
covers the flight deck.
Throttles are at full power, 
and you’re waiting for the 
signal to launch.
Now: The catapult fires.
G forces slam you back into 
your seat. Suddenly, you’re 
flying low and fast over the 
night sea.
Nothing else feels like Navy 
flying. Nothing. And as a 
pilot or flight officer you can 
be part of it.
The Navy puts you in full 
control of a multi-million- 
dollar super-sophisticated
combination of jet aircraft 
and electronic wizardry.
fn return, the Navy 
demands something of you: 
Leadership. As officers, right 
from the start, members of 
the Navy aviation team get 
decision-making authority, 
leadership responsibility, and 
management experience. 
Other careers can give you 
responsibility. ButNavy gives 
it to you sooner.
Make your first leadership 
decision now. Send in the 
coupon. Nothing else feels like 
Navy flying.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. BOX 5000, Clifton, NJ 07012
? Yes, I’m interested in becoming 
part of the Navy aviation team.
Please send me more information. (0A)
86~1
FIRST mkI;EASE I’M NT I LAST
.State_
+ColleKe/L,niversity_
^Graduation Date_. 0 G rade Poin
J AMajor/Minor__
I Phone Number.(AREA CODE)*BeM Tmm? p\ Call
This is for general recruitment information. You 
do not have to furnish any of the information 
requested. Of course, the more we know, the more 
we can help you determine the kinds of Navy 
programs for which you qualify. ^
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

Camegie-Mellon
Allegheny
Case WR
Wash-Jeff
John Canoll
Bethany
Mirani
Iliiel
w
2
L
0
PCIWed. Jan. 21WOMEN’S BASKETBALLCMUvs. St. Francis(h)6:00P\*
1.000MEN’S BASKETBALLCMUvs. John Carroll(h)8:00P1V
201.000Thur. Jan 22FENCINGCMUvs. Penn State(h)6:00PV
1
1
1
1
.500
.500Sat. Jan. 24WOMEN’S BASKETBALLCMUvs. Seton Hill(a)1:00PM
11.500SWIMMINGCMUvs. John Carroll(a)1:00PM
11.500FENCINGCMUvs. Cleveland State,(a)1:00PM
0
0
2
2..
.000
.000MEN’S BASKETBALL
Univ.
CMU
of Chicago, Allegheny 
vs. Allegheny(a)8:00PM
Tartans down Thiel and 
Case to open PAC slate
CMU FG FGA FT FT A PTS
Lewis 0—0 0—0 0
Mulac 2—5 0—0 4
Hofmeister 8—14 2—3 18
Belechak 4—9 4—5 * 12
Donahoe 2—4 0—0 4
Hobart 3—5 0—1 6
Bennett 4—7 - 0—0 8
23—44 6—9 54
by Denny Postufka
The CMU basketball team started out the 
1981 PAC campaign on the right foot last 
week. The Tartans came home winners last 
Wednesday in the conference debut at Thiel 
and knocked off Case Western Reserve on 
Saturday afternoon. The Tartans now post 
a 4-6 overall record while they sit pretty at 
the moment with a 2-0 PAC mark.
CMU overcame a comeback attempt by 
Thiel in the second half to hold on and win 
by a score of 54-49. The Plaid jumped out to 
a quick 16-4 lead eight minutes into the 
contest as Coach Dave Maloney sent the 
troops into four comers offense for the 
remainder of the half. The wide open attack 
enabled the Tartans to maintain a 32-20 
halftime lead.
The Tartans started out sloppily in the 
second half with 12 turnovers in the first 10 
minutes and the Tomcats fought back to 
within one, 42-41 with less than 5 minutes 
remaining. After a few key 3-point plays, the 
Tartans went back up by 5 and went back 
into the four comer offense and put it in the 
bag.
Dave Hofmeister led the way for the Tar­
tans with 18 points and 11 rebounds. “Hof” 
was the key man breaking open inside for 
CMU while in the four comes. Joe Belechak
was the only other Tartan in double figures 
with 12 points. CMU outrebounded Thiel 
33-18. One thing the Tartans cannot 
to repeat was their 23 turnovers, which only 
teams like 0-8 Thiel do not capitalize on.
Saturday’s game was almost like watch­
ing a rerun of the Thiel game, with Case 
falling behind by as many as 14 at one point 
in the game, came back to within two, but 
never could grab the lead as the Tartans 
came away on top 72-65. It was apparent 
that CMU is a different team when Hofmeis­
ter is in foul trouble. When “Hof” was 
the line-up with 3 fouls, the Spartans made 
their comeback. Once Hof re-entered the 
game with about five minutes remaining, 
he hit on two three-point plays to 
cushion back to five and enabled the 
tans to go into their four comer slow down 
game which they once again ran 
perfection.
Hofmeister finished with 21 points and 10 
rebounds. Sophomores Pete Bennett and 
Carl Mulac displayed offensive power for 
CMU scoring 16 and 14, respectively. The 
Tartans shot 51.9% from the field 
to Case’s 41%.
The Tartans will face John Carroll at 
home tomorrow night and then travel to 
Allegheny on Saturday night.
THIEL
Crabb
Curran
O’Brien
4—13
4—8
8—18
FG FGA
2—5 
1—3 
5—11
3—8
1—4 
1—2
4—9 
0—0
5—8
2—5 
1—2 
25—61
3—5 
1—3 
9—14
3—4
4—12
6—11 
0—2 
0—1 
27—52
FT FT A 
0—0 
0—0
4—4 
2—2 
0—0 
0—0 
2-2 
2—2 
3—3 
2—3 
O' "0 
15—16
8—9
2—3
3—8 
0—0
3—6
4—6 
0—0 
0—0 
‘XI—??
photo by Robert Zusnia -
Carl Mulac goes up for a layup against Case Western Reserve’s Steve Arnold (no. 45) in last Saturday’s 7. 
65 Tartan victory. Mulac finished with 14 points.
CASE RESERVE 
Tsipis 
Griffin 
Hewitt 
Jackson 
Cherry 
Layton 
Carter 
Teffner 
Tiber 
Kolk 
Arnold
photo by Robert Zusman
Danny Donahoe runs the CMU offense against Case Western Reserve.
PAC STANDINGS Tyrian reams in action this week________
CMU
Mulac
Hobart
Hofmeister
Donahoe
Belechak
Bennett
Miklasevich
Lewis

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—January 20, 1981
ACHIEVERS.
At Cray Research, the efforts of our technical staff are the essence of this company's success And successful we are,- in just a few short years, Cray Research has climbed to the number one spot in the industry for development of large-scale, scientific computers At Cray, you'll have opportunities to contribute your programming or engineering skills from day-one. And you'll be offered on going sup­port to continue achieving your very best Cray is a young, fast-growing company who's looking for prom­ising technical talent If you're looking for the most visible and rewarding place to apply your skills sign up for an interview with our recruiter who'll be on campus January 26.
If unable to arrange an appoint­ment please send a resume ta LeRoy Harmon, Cray Research, Inc., Human Resources Dept, 1440 Northland Drive, Mendota Heights MN 56120.
RESEARCH, INC
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
pivot
ÜPTKT
ENGINEERINGDRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355*0444
OPEN SAT. 01 to 5 P.M.
ART MATERIALS. INC
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
Organizational meetings: 
Boxing Club —
January 21 4:45 p.m.
Gym Blue Room
Baseball Club —
January 21 8:00 p.m.
Skibo Room 12
Tartan women drop to 1-3 with loss to Point Park
by Bob Share
The Carnegie-Mellon University 
women’s basketball team dropped a 77-52 
decision to Point Park College last Saturday 
at Central Catholic High School. Point 
Park broke the game open with a 19-4 spurt 
over the final ten minutes of the first half 
and never looked back.
The Tartans, (1-3), outplayed Point Park 
in the early going, and held their biggest 
lead, 20-15, at the midway point of the first 
This was largely due to the play of 
senior Alex Allen, who poured in eight 
during that span. Point Park then 
tightened its zone defense, preventing CMU
from moving the ball inside, and began to 
control the game. The first half ended with 
the Pioneers’ 19-4 streak and a 34-24 half- 
time bulge.
Despite the loss, there were some strong 
performances for the Tartans. Sophomore 
center Debbie Durr played well at both ends 
of the floor, collecting fifteen points and ten 
rebounds to lead CMU in both categories. 
Junior Kassie Segmiller chipped in with 
thirteen points, and junior point guard Isa­
belle Petoud led the team with four steals. 
The women’s squad next sees action Wed­
nesday when they host St. Francis at 6:00 
p.m.
encers split season openers
photo by Robert Zusman
The Tartans’ Alex Allen puts up a shot last Saturday against Point Park at the Central Catholic gym­
nasium as Debbie Durr (no. 43) looks on.________________________________________________________________
by Robin Lucas
The Carnegie-Mellon University fencing 
team hosted its first match of the season last 
Saturday with Case Western Reserve and 
Allegheny and came away with one victory. 
The Tartans downed Allegheny at 4 and 0 
in the meet’s opening match but fell to Cate 
1 and 3 in the days finale. The other 
match in the seven hour meet saw the 
Spartans defeat Allegheny at 3 and 1.
The CMU fencing team, coached by Jane
Fisk, was represented in four weapons by:
Women’s foil-Robin Lucas (co-captain), 
Beth Brannick, Karen Schultz 
Men’s foil-Kris Scigliano (co-captain), 
Jay Michaels, James Marshall, Eric Toft, 
Mike Prescott, Bob Aarhus
Epee-Mike Cramer, Darren Shaw, Stuart 
Harrison
Sabre-Scott Rose, Dan Mopes, Dave 
Golden, Mark Masitis.

---------------------------------------------------

January 20, 1981—The Tartan—Page 17
More teams (especially women’s) needed for IM basketball
The semester begins after vacation so does 
the intramural program. New sports, from 
basketball to bridge, are beginning soon. 
Sports with entries due Tuesday, January 
20th at 4:30 p.m. are Basketball, Handbal-
l,and Bridge. Basketball commissioners are: 
Major League Rocky Cersosimo, X4613 and 
Wes Seeley phone 687-0843. Intermediate 
League - Lou Olive, ext. 4512 and Women’s 
League Rocky Cersosimo. A commissioner 
for the minor league is still needed. Please 
contact Mr. Birdy in Room 104, gym. There 
is still a great demand for women’s teams. 
Please contact Mr. Birdy or Rocky with your 
entry. There will be an important rules 
clinic Tuesday, January 20th at 4:30 in the 
Women’s Gym. Each team must have a 
representative at this important clinic. 
Games will start on Thursday. Check the 
IM bulletin board foF~times.
Handball play will start next week. A 
commissioner is still needed. A Bridge com­
missioner is also needed.
Sports with entries due January 29th are 
Wrestling and Water Basketball. Water Bas­
ketball needs a commissioner. Wrestling 
practice starts February 2 and will be each 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 4-5 
p.m. in Thistle Hall.
Intramural Night will be March 13. Tro­
phies will be awarded this year again.
Chris Wargo did a nice job as commis­
sioner of Soccer. The Major League champs 
were Mellon Heads. The Minor League 
champs were Theta Xi. All teams please 
elect the All School Team and MVP and 
turn them into IM office.
Please get all darts games played and turn
Dregs
PRINTED DRINKING 
GLASSES
Wording of your choice
minimum order 5 dozen @ $2.00 
a glass. Souvenir to make your 
occasion special
EVE: 921-8170; DAY: 921-3571
in results to Sheila Dunham, x4751 and 
backgammon results to Debbie Cohen, 
phone 578-5943.
Champions in three person volleyball 
were Ustalar in the major league and Kappa 
Sigma in the minor league.
Any students interested in intramural 
weight lifting should contact Ken 
Murawski at 578-4666 or Gary Drakulic at 
683-2082. The intramural board is trying to
find out how much interest there would be 
in IM horseback riding. The games would 
take placé at Maracham Farm in Mars, PA., 
about a 40 minute drive from CMU. Partici­
pants would have to supply their own trans­
portation. There is an indoor rink and 
lecture room. They would take place two 
times per week in the evening starting 
around 5:30 for VA hours. There would be 4 
people to a team and there would be three
divisions, beginner, intermediate and 
advanced. They would take place each week 
for three months which means a total of 24 
lessons. The cost is $240 and could be paid 
on installment. Meets would be held on 
Saturdays. Anyone interested should contact 
Mr. Birdy in the IM office at X2214 or Bob 
Dudas at 682-6133.
The next IM board meeting is on January 
29th at 12:30 p.m. in Room 104 gym.
continued from page 14 
Steve Morse, “but if we did, it would be 
somehing like ‘electric chamber music.”’ 
Writing a probing feature for Down­
beat magazine, Larry Birnbaum puts it 
this way: “Eschewing vocals, the Dregs 
combine equal parts of rock, jazz, country 
and classical musics to spin a seamless 
web of sound with rare freshness and 
originality,”
A rather unusual origin belongs to the 
Dregs, in that they were formed for col­
lege credit. The University of Miami 
School of Music has one of the finest 
reputations in the country and boasts an 
innovative and effective jazz cirriculm. 
For example, during the Dregs educa­
tional period, some of the jazz faculty 
included Pat Methany, fusion drummer 
Michael Walden and Weather Report 
bassist Jaco Pastorious.
For college credit, Morse and four oth­
ers produced and recorded The Great 
Spectacular' album, later privately issued 
and now a collector’s item. Quickly the 
groups individual and collective prowess 
became cohesive with a musical identity 
that was at times serious and expellra- 
tory, at others playfull and humourous, 
and frequently awesome. The debut LP 
Free Fall, produced by Stewart Levine, 
was released in the spring of 1977.
Another IM basketball season will begin this Thursday. There will be a mandatory basketball rules clinic today at 4:30 p.m. in the small gym.
Later that year the band began to gain 
momentum, as they played more and 
more dates, widening their near fanatical 
following. In 1978 the band played an 
historical set at the Montreaux jazz festi­
val. Praise and admiration for the band 
came from all comers after their electrify­
ing show at the jazz festival. Montreaux 
went so well for the Dregs that one side of 
their new album, Night of the Living 
Dregs, represents highlights of that per­
formance including the fascinating title 
tune, the rollicking uniquely country fla­
vored “The Bash,” and the lively, witty 
“Leprechaun Promenande.” The album 
also features their heavier rock piece 
“Punk Sandwich.”
Reserved seating tickets for the show 
are $4 for CMU students and $6 for the 
general public. Tickets will go on sale at 
noon on Wednesday January 21.
NOW OPEN
|®/M> ©IpÛDCSDSim©
For the first time, the Thistle will be accepting 
classified ads. It's your chance to have a lasting 
message to someone special included in the 
1981 yearbook. You can say anything you'd 
like: Up to 15 words or equivalent to 2 lines. The 
cost until January 27 will be only $2.50 each 
for underclassmen and $2.00 each for seniors. 
(After January 27 the cost will be raised to 
$3.00 and $2.50 respectively. So Hurry!)
? Yes, I want to send a message!
Name
^^^stUorT^ynvearfContaciLenses 
4200 Murray Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
Barry A. Merenstein Optician 
•All Optical Prescriptions filled
•Lenses duplicated/Frames 
replaced
•Discount Prices
•Fashion Eyewear Designer 
Frames
•Visa/Mastercharge accepted
15% DISCOUNT
•With CMU ID
Campus Address and Phone # 
Message:_________________
Message:
? Yes, I would like a book at an additional $10.
Return in envelope with check payable to 
"Thistle" through Campus Mail to '81 Year­
book, Room 46 a, Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-The Tartan-January 20, 1981
CIA recruitment opposed on several campuses
(CPS)—After an eight-year hibernation, 
student opposition to on-campus recruit­
ment by the Central Intelligence Agency has 
resurfaced at several institutions. In scenes 
reminiscent of the late sixties and early sev­
enties, demonstrators have told the CIA to 
get off campus, criticizing their cover opera­
tions and recruitment efforts.
The demonstrators, spearheaded by the 
Washington-based Campaign for Political 
Rights, have not yet caused much concern 
among CIA officials. An agency spokeswo­
man says signs of opposition “are just iso­
lated incidents that don’t reflect the 
generally warm receptions we receive at 
most campuses.”
Isolated or not, the bitterness and anger at 
several schools are very real. At the Univer­
sity of Massachusetts, for example, about 
200 students marched on the campus place­
ment service office several weeks ago, hold­
ing signs such as, “Don’t interview with 
murderers and torturers.” The rally’s organ­
izer, Judy Weiss, was quoted by the campus 
newspaper saying that “the university is leg­
itimizing the CIA and condoning what it 
does by having them here (recruiting on 
campus).”
At the University of Illinois, the scene was 
similar in October when a few hundred stu­
dents gathered on the Quad to protest differ­
ent types of covert CIA activities. On the eve 
of a recruitment drive by the agency on that 
campus, Neal Fox, a university employee, 
criticized the CIA’s aid to right-wing dicta­
torships in the Third World, and called 
upon other students to dissuade friends from 
applying to the agency.
And at Yale University in New Haven, 
the crowd was not as large but the message 
was the same. A group of protesters held up 
a sign saying, “Stop murdering our Latino 
brothers and sisters.”
While the CIA said those protests are 
unrepresentative of the majority of student 
sentiment toward the agency, a spokeswo­
man at the Campaign for Political Rights 
calls them the stirrings of a larger movement 
against the CIA, sparked somewhat by the 
Reagan landslide victory in November.
“The CIA issue will be a hotter issue all 
over the campuses,” predicts Susan Benda, 
the campaign’s college coordinator. “Many
more universities have organized to raise the 
issue of cover recruitment, and with Reagan 
in there, things will get even more active.”
The campaign’s main priorities, Benda 
says, are to raise the awareness of students 
about the past activities of the CIA, and to 
persude universities to impose guidelines on 
the agency’s use of professors and students 
on campus. So far, several schools have 
adopted guidelines, but Benda admits they 
hardly restrict the amount of recruitment on 
those campuses.
“Obviously, the CIA is going to continue 
recruiting no matter what guidelines are 
set,” she says. “But at least with some of the 
new rules, professors are required to admit 
cooperation, and in some cases are even res­
tricted from working with the agency.”
Even with new guidelines at several 
campuses— including Harvard and the 
University of Michigan— the CIA says 
recruitment efforts will not be curtailed. 
Kathy Pherson, a public affairs spokeswo­
man for the agency, says 98,000 graduating 
college students madejnquiries last year
into working for the CIA. She did not say 
how many were eventually offered posi­
tions, but did predict tht recmiters would 
con tin ire making the same campus rounds.
“We’re not going to let some of these 
incidents stop our recruiting,” she says. “We 
think most students respect our existence, . 
and like to have us come to their campus.”
Ready for Mt. St. Helens, Hurricane Allen, Love Canal.
Red Cross: Ready for a new century.
A Public Service of This Newspaper KjftSI 
& The Advertising Council Canal
CAMPUS MIERVKWSJANUARY 29 & 30
... -------------- ¦ ------ ¦ ¦ ............- ......i... ¦ ...........-¦¦¦ i . ' -------- ¦ -........
At General Dynamics, our people are 
vital to our success. We see each 
individual as an asset. And we want 
to see that asset grow.
That’s why we need people who 
desire to push beyond their own 
horizons... people who are willing to 
demonstrate their initiative ... people 
who are limited only by the boundaries 
of their imagination.
General Dynamics is the nation’s 
number one defense contractor and 
a leader in commercial programs as
well. We’re also a leader when it 
comes to benefits, salaries, oppor­
tunities for advancement, job diversity 
and mobility, attractive locales, mod­
ern manufacturing equipment and 
facilities, and expanded technological 
bases.
Our representatives will visit your 
campus this spring. Be sure to pick up 
one of our brochures at your 
Placement Office and schedule an 
interview appointment.
And, plan to attend our Corporate 
presentation the evening before 
our on-campus interviews. Details 
at your Placement Office.
Or, if you prefer, send your 
resume to:
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College 
Relations Administrator 
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
Pierre Laclede Center, CN-35 
St. Louis, MO 63105
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
a.b.
January 22 
Thursday Film Arts
The Go-Between, starring Julie Christie, Alan 
Bates and Michael Redgrave. Written by Harold 
Pinter. Directed by Joseph Losey. Winner of the 
Grand Prize at the Cannes Film Festival in 1971. 
“The Production that Losey has designed for 
Pinters screenplay is close to perfect, with never a 
shot, a camera angle nor a cut from one scene to 
another that is not synchronized to the structure 
of the whole...(it) is full of those contradictions 
that make life and movies interesting. It’s an idyll 
about murder, a charming tale of casual cruelty, 
and a terrifying picture of an innocent first love. 
It’s one of the few movies, in fact that I can 
recommend without any real qualifications.”--
Vincent Canby, The New York Times
January 23 
Friday Films
Moonraker, starring Roger Moore, Lois Chiles 
and Richard Kiel. For the eleventh time Bond is 
Back! And for the first time, the locale is outer 
space. And Jaws is back! The greatest Bond vil- 
lian of all time was actually written into the 
script by popular demand.
January 24 
Coffeehouse
Kim and Reggie Harris will be appearing in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo at 9:30 PM. Refreshments 
will be served.
January 25
Sunday Afternoon Series 
Cabin in the Sky, an MGM musical from 1943. 
Starring Eddie “Rochester” Anderson, Lena 
Home, Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong and 
Ethel Waters. At 6,8 and 10 in DH 2210.
film
SDC Film Series
Frat House, X-rated Animal House hij - 
inks. 6, 8, 10 and 12 in DH2210. $.50 with 
CMU ID.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film 
Repertory
January 20
Motel Hell, directed by Kevin Connor. Star­
ring Rory Calhoun. 7:30 and 9:30.
January 21
Hitchcock Double Bill: 39 Steps and Secret 
Agent. 7:30 and 10:15.
January 22
A Wedding, directed by Robert Altman. Star­
ring Carol Burnett, Mia. Farrow and Dina 
Merrill. 7:30 and 9:40.
January 23
Cabaret, directed by Bob Fosse. Starring Liza 
Minnelli, Joel Grey and Michael York. 7 30, 
9:40 and 11:50.
January 24
My Brilliant Career (Australian), starring 
Judy Davis. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
January 25
The Charge of the Light Brigade, starring 
Errol Hynn, David Niven and Olivia de 
Havilland. 7:30 and 9:30.
Janaury 26
Lord of the Rings (animated), by Ralph Bak-
shi. 7:30 and 9:50.
ABORTION
* free pregnancy tests
* confidential counseling
WOMEN’S HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
• non-profit medical facility
Carnegie Institute Film Series
January 20
George Kuchar-director series 
Four Kuchar films: Knoctume, featuring 
filmmaker Joyce Wieland; The Lady Form 
Sands Point with Artist Betty Holliday: 
Encyclopedia of the Blessed, featuring Red 
Grooms and Mimi Gross and The Mammal 
Palace. 8 p.m. in the Museum of Art Theater. 
$2.
NOTE: Next week, January 27, George 
Kuchar, the subject of the Institute’s most 
recent directors’ series, will appear at the 
museum and present two of his newest works. 
After the screening, Kuchar willdiscusshis 20 
year filmmaking career with the audience.
January 22
Films From the Museum of Art Collection
Avant-garde films of the late 1950’s»<4 Movie, 
by Bruce Donner; A Man & His Dog Out for 
Air, by Robert Breer; Adebar, by Peter 
Kubelka; Bridges Go Round, by Shirley 
Clarke and Anticipation of the Night and 
Sirius Remembered, both by Stan Brakhage. 8 
p.m. in the Museum of Art Theater. Free.
January 24
Saturday Afternoon Series- Films from 19th 
Century English Literature 
Oliver Twist (1948), directd by David Lean. 
Featuring Alec Guiness as Fagin. 1:30 in the 
Museum of Art Theater. $2.
January 25 
Comedy Series
Le Million (French), a musical comedy form 
1931 and L’Affaire dans le Sac (French), 
directed by Pierre Prevert. 7:30 in the Lecture 
Hall. $2.
art
Forbes Street Gallery
In the Woodlawn Apartments at Forbes 
and Morewood. Openings are Tuesday, 7 
to 10 PM. Other gallery hours are Wed­
nesday through Sunday, 12:30 to 5 PM 
and Wednesday and Thupsday evenings, 
7 to 9 PM. 578-2081.
January 20 through 25 
Allison Goodman, Binny Kelly and 
Donna Scarpellino -graphic and indus­
trial design, (see article inside Entertain­
ment section)
Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opppsite the 
box office. Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m., Monday through Saturday.
Through January 29
James P. Nelson paintings. The CMU alum­
nus features oil paintings of Pittsburgh 
neighborhoods and landscapes among his 
works.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art
Gallery 407, 407 South Craig Street. Gallery 
hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 to 5 
p.m. and Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. Free.
Through February 1
Harry Holland, paintings and sculpture. A 
highly acclaimed geometric painter, Holland 
is an associate Professor of Painting at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Pregnant? 
And you didn’t mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
music
January 21 
Campus recital
The Carnegie-Mellon Department of Music will 
present English hom player Harold Smoliar and 
violinist Huei-Sheng Kao in a dual recital. Both 
men are members of the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra and CMU faculty. A number of Pitts­
burgh Symphony Orchestra members will par­
ticipate in the concert, including CMU alumni, 
Paul Ross, violinist and Maria Caruso, pianist. 8 
p.m. in the Alumni Concert Hall. Free and open 
to the public.
January 23 through 25 
Pittsburgh Symphony
Klaus Tennstedt, Principal Guest Con­
ductor of the Minnesota Orchestra will 
guest conduct the symphony in a pro­
gram that will include the works of 
Mozart and Bruckner. Friday at 8:30, Sat­
urday at 8 and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. (Stu­
dents may buy available Rush tickets, at 
$3.50 each, at the Heinz Hall box office 
beginning 15 minutes before each perfor­
mance.). 281-5000 for information.
January 25 
Campus Concert
kCMU assistant professor of music, Bon­
nie Fix Keller and CMU guest artist, Carl 
Berky will perform a concert in celebra­
tion of the 66th birthday of contemporary 
composer, Vincent Persichetti. Works by 
Persichetti will be performed. 8 p.m. in 
the Alumni Concert Hall. Free and open 
to the public.
theater
Through January 25 
That Championship Season
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Com­
pany’s third offering of 1980-81 season. 
Jason Miller’s play is the winner of the 
Pulitzer Prize, Tony Award for best play 
and New York Drama Critic’s Award. At 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center 
on Craft Avenue. Thursday through Sun­
day at 8 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday 
afternoon at 2:30. Student discounts are 
available. For ticket information, call 
621-4445.
Through January 21 
The Elephant Man
Bernard Pomerance’s award winning play is the 
current production of the Heinz Hall Broadway 
Theater Series. Based on the true stroy of John 
Merrick, “The Elephant Man”. The play follows 
his final years in a London Hospital. Showtimes 
are tonight at 8 p.m. and tomorrow, January 21, 
at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets are available at the Heinz 
Hall box office and Kaufmann’s.
Through February 15 
Terra Nova
Pittsburgh Public Theatre’s third mainstage 
production this season is a new play by con­
temporary American playwright Ted Tally. 
The story of the race between a Norwegian 
and an Englishman to be the first to set foot on 
the South Pole. Directed and designed by
Peter Wesler. For ticket information, call 323- 
1900.
Through February 8 
Dracula: Sabbat
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre con­
tinues its season of plays by Leon Katz. 
This play focusses on the ritualistic 
aspect of the Dracula legend. The show 
will feature an original rock score by 
CMU music student, Michelle DiBucci. 
Showtimes are Thursday through Sun­
day at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at 
the Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre Cen­
ter (formerly the Lion Walk) on North 
Craig. Advanced reservations should be 
made by calling 621-2876.
January 22 through February 7 
La Ronde
The City Theatre Company, in residence 
at the University of Pittsburgh, presents 
the Austrian playwright Arthur 
Schnitzler’s treatment of the relationship 
between the sexes. Everynight except 
Monday in the Studio Theatre on Pitt 
Campus. Reservations can be made by 
calling 624-6587.
Through February 8 
Dusa, Fish, Stas and Vi
Theatre Express’ third production of the 
1980-81 season is a contemporary drama 
by British playwright Pam Gems about 
four women who share a flat in London. 
The play stars three CMU alumni, Lisa 
Bansavage, Janet Reed, and Claudia 
Zahn, and a current CMU undergradu­
ate, Pam Norris. Performances are 
Thursday through Sunday evenings at 
8:30 p.m. Theatre Express is on Baum 
Boulevard. 621-5454 for ticket prices and 
information.
January 22 through February 1 
Art/Work
The Iron Clad Agreement’s final produc­
tion for the season. In Chris Blaetz’s 
drama, two brother’s struggle to come to 
grips with their differences. Directed by 
Tom Hearn. At Antonian Hall at Carlow 
College in Oakland. Thursday through 
Saturday at 8:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 and 
7 p.m. For more information and reserva­
tions, call 731-2445.
Red Cross:
Ready for a new century.
LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO 
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle 8c Buerger,*
Professional Corporation 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
TEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISAS (GREEN CARDS) 
LABOR CERTIFICATIONS RELATIVE PETITIONS
CITIZENSHIP
•Pennsylvania docs not rcto.i'ni/c or cetuilx legal specialities.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
general
MED-X—Volunteer positions are available 
for students interested in health relations 
fields in several area hospital. There are 
opportunities to volunteer in emergency 
rooms, physical therapy, pharmacy, hospital 
labs, medical records, patient counseling and 
more... Interesting speakers and opportuni­
ties to visit the dome above an operating room 
and an anatomy lab are provided at MED-X 
meetings. For more information and to apply, 
come to the Health Professions Office 119 
Scaife Hall. 578-2484. Deadline is Friday, Jan­
uary 23!
The following are restrictions now in effect 
for all personal sales through the General 
Stores Department:
1. ALL personal sales limited to the following 
hours:
10:00—11:30 AM 
2:00—3:30 PM
2. For sheets of lumber, purchaser will be 
charged for H, or whole sheets only;
3. Boards will be sold by 8’ of 16’ lengths only;
4. The carpenters will make one free cut per 
piece at their convenience;
5. Any additional cuts will cost $1.00 per cut.
There is a unique B’nai B’rith Hillel Reform 
Night Service followed by a $2.50 special dinner 
(Free to those students who have already paid 
contributions to the Campus Campaign for 
Israel and World Jewry). Time: 5:30 p.m. Place:2 
Rogal Room of J.GC, 315 Bellefield Ave. Date: 
January 23, 1981. Reservations must be made 
before January 23. Call 621-8875.
B’nai B’rith Hillel is also presenting a combined 
Coffee House and Concert featuring the Kol 
B’Seder singing duo. $1.00 for tickets in advance; 
$2.00 at the door. Time: 8:30 p.m. Place: J.C.C. 
Auditorium, 315 Bellefield Ave. Date: Saturday, 
January 24, 1981. For tickets, call 621-8875. B’nai 
B’rith Hillel is a beneficiary of the United Jewish 
Federation of Greater Pittsburgh.
The following seats are currently open on Stu­
dent Senate: GIT undergrad.-1, CTTgrad.-3, CFA 
grad.-l, AMS undergrad.-1, H&SS undergrad.-1, 
H&SS grad.-1. Petitions are available at the Skibo 
Info. Desk before 5 p.m. Friday, January 30, and 
are due at the February 3 Senate Meeting.
There will be a meeting of the Health Professions 
Programs, Monday, Jan. 26, 1981 at 7:00 p.m. in 
Skibo, Rm. 45. The topic will be osteopathic 
medicine.
AIESEC (International Association of Students 
in Economics and Management) meets every 
Wednesday at 4:30 in Skibo 11. Members include 
students of all majors and career interests. New 
members are welcome.
CMU Law Club Meeting tonight at 8:00 in 
Room 13 Skibo. We’ll be viewing a filmstrip 
on LSAT registration and preparation, as 
well as discussing the new format for the 
LSAT. All are welcome.
scholarship
Applications for the Delta Delta Delta Scholar­
ship competition which is open to all full-time 
undergraduate women students are available in 
Dean Cox’s office, Warner Hall 204. The winner 
of the local competition is eligible for the $1000 
national competition. The deadline for submit­
ting completed applications is March 1, 1981. 
PLEASE NOTE: This scholarship is not res­
tricted to members of Delta Delta Delta but is 
open to all full-time undergraduate women.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
Wit.
< Z.
This is a test of the Tartan printing 
system. If this was a real article, 
there would have been a headline. 
This is only a test.
This is a test of the Tartan printing system. 
If this was a real article, there would have 
been a headline. This is only a test.
This is a test of the Tartan printing system. If this was a real 
article, then* would have been a headline. This is only a lest.
The “New” Martial Arts Club
TAE KWON DO KARATE
3RD DEGREE BLACKBELT - ANDY HAHN
JUJITSU
BLACKBELT — CHUCK JONES
KUNG FU
BLACK SASH - TONY HADDAD
AIKIDO
BLACKBELT - CURTIS SMITH
Beginners join now! Regular 
meeting times, Mon. & Wed. 
7:00 - 8:30 PM 
Thistle Hall Gym
