" Plays in 
[Little Theatre-] 
4 O’Clock
Are You"Going to Cornell?
g
Carnegie Tech Special leaves P. & L. E. Station 11:00 P. M., jj 
November 7. We return November 10th, 7 :30 A. M.
iiiiiiiuiiiiiuniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiuiiiiiiiiiiyiiiiiiiioiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
PLAID OUTCLASSES BETHANY BY SCORE OF 33-0Qlhf Qlarlan
"Playsiy ian[i[L[y te [y"Tathr-]4 Oi[[n’LlsT4 Oyaan]CoPaiP... OCTOBER S,. 191.9
Everybody to 
W. & J. 
Saturday
(Courtesy Gazette Times)
MUSICAL CLUBS SEASON 
OPENS WITH REHEARSAL
Last Sunday afternoon the Musical 
Clubs started their season off with a 
bang. The Glee Club will be under 
the direction of Bob Crawford, a Tech 
grad, and Signor Scalzo who has di­
rected the Mandolin Club for many 
years is back again.
The number of men reporting last 
Sunday makes strings look bright and 
all are looking forward to a good sea­
son.
Individual tryouts were held for 
new men in the Glee Club in Room 
104, Industries, while the Mandolin 
Club started practice in the Union Re­
hearsals will be held every Sunday. 
If you have any talent—come out.
PLPAIDOUDTCSDA EBP
TECH SPECIAL TO W.-J.
The last time Tech played W. & J. 
the game was played at Washington. 
But there were more Tech students on 
the field than W. & J. followers. We 
should' outnumber them again this 
year by a good margin. Fifteen hun­
dred is the number expected, but to 
date only about 800 tickets have been 
sold.
A special train will leave Pittsburgh 
Saturday at 1:15. It will stop at Car­
negie, Bridgeville and Cannonsburg; 
at the other end it will stop at the 
gate of the field. The trip takes about 
50 minutes.
Game is called at three o'clock, but 
will be held until the Rooter’s Special 
arrives, should it be late. A large 
block of the stands is reserved for 
Tech, and tickets are 50 cents to Tech 
students, the regular price being one 
dollar. Between halves there will be 
cheering and a big parade.
VOL. XIV. No. 2
~ The Thistle Office, Room 135, Industries School, will be | 
open Thursday afternoon and Friday afternoon. This will g 
\ be the last time available for students to get 1919 Thistles. I 
All of those who have placed orders for books or who wish 
to buy extra copies are urged to visit the Thistle Office this j 
week.I J
ANNUAL FALL FESTIVAL 
MARKS END OF HAZING
After four days of as .strenuous 
hazing as has been soon on the campus 
in many years, the sophomore class 
officially terminated the poriod of 
sporatic hazing by burying the hatchet 
with the plebes at the Fall Festival 
last Thursday ovoning on Toch field. 
This pageant which was written by 
Mr. Stevens of the School of the 
Dramatic Arts, is one of the splendid 
traditions of Carnegie Toch, which 
were abandoned In the press of war. 
Its production this year was rendered 
the more difficult in the fact that 
neither of the participating classes 
had ever seen it staged before. How­
ever the sentiment of the large aud­
ience seemed to be that it was the 
“best ever." Certain it is that the 
Indians were the wildest tribe that 
ever pitched camp on Tech field.
When the peace pipe had been 
smoked and the hatched duly buried, 
the huge bonfire was set off, and the 
plebes and sophs wound their way 
around it in a picturesque snake dance 
to the music of the Tech band. Tech 
cheers were called for and given with 
that old “Tech pep”, and the line 
wound its way up the steps from the 
athletic field where lemonade and 
pretzels were supplied for everyone.
----------U-----------
All fraternity notes must be in the 
Tartan box by Friday noon. Failure 
to comply with this request, means 
that your news will riot appear in the 
following issue. We intend to make 
this fraternity column representative 
of all Tech fraternities. To do this 
we need your heartiest cooperation.
----------0-----—
The Division of Arts shows an in­
crease of about 20 per cent, and a gain 
of approximately the same percentage 
is indicated for the Division of In­
dustries.
FIRST PLAY OF YEAR 
“QUEENSLAND QUDITS”
The first bill of plays to be pro­
duced this year in the Little Theatre 
'of the School of the Drama, will be 
¡given at 4:00 o’clock Friday after- 
Inoon. It will consist of a revival of 
¡the “Portrait of a Policeman” by Sara 
¡Evelyn Bennett, which was given here 
¡[last year, and a new play, “Queens­
land Quoits”, by Howard Smith.
The plays are to be given for the 
benefit of Frances Starr and Whitford 
Kane, who are playing here this week, 
but all students of the Institute are 
¡invited to attend.
,* The authors of both of the plays 
[are students of the School of Drama, 
lland the productions are purely Tech 
i affairs, from beginning to end; cos­
tumes; scenery, and everything per­
taining to them being evolved in the 
Drama school-. As such, the plays 
should prove of more interest to the 
students in general than productions 
of even a classic order, but not so 
closely related to Tech life.
‘Queensland Quoits” is a melo­
drama of the Australian desert, a lo­
cale which has hitherto been dealt 
\vith but very little. It brings out the 
leffect of the barrenness and desola- 
jtion, the monotonous downs and 
ghastly gum trees on a sensitive spoil­
ed English woman who has just come[
out to the country. The ruggedness 
and innate goodness and courtesy of 
i the typical bushranger is well shown 
[in the character of her husband. The 
iplay also suggests the dramatic possi­
bilities of the Queensland mounted 
constabulary, who greatly resemble 
the Northwestern mounted police. The 
extremely curious use to which the 
native black is put by them is well 
illustrated.
The cast of “Queensland Quoits” is 
as follows:
¡Gilbert Yorrow, a Queensland squat­
ter ..............................James S. Church
,'Rhoda Yorrow, his wife, a month out
from England...............Ruth Farmer
Inglis, a “sundowner”...............
.......................Kenneth Thomson
McNevin, of the Queensland Mounted
Constabulary..........David S. Gaither
Billabong, his black tracker....
........................Howard Claney
The scene is the Yorrow “Humpey”,I
 Queensland, in the late nineties.
----------a----------
With an enrollment now exceeding 
that of any other year at the same 
period, there is no possibility of lodg­
ing the incoming students in the 
dormitories and houses in Oakland 
and Squirrel Hill, which have been 
occupied in previous years, and the 
¦ finding of quarters for students at 
s Tech is a problem which is causing 
^the authorities great concern.
Get Your 1919 Thistle.
Phil Marshal, Adting Captain,
Makes Three of Five Touchdowns
Backfield Problems Solved but 
Line Shows Weak Spots
New Men Play Well
Before a crowd of more than 3,000 
royal Tech rooters, our Varsity open­
ed its season by defeating Bethany 
College 33-0.
Both teams were severely handi­
capped by the extreme heat of the 
day but this did not stop the Varsity 
as it was able to score in each quarter.
With only two letter men of former 
years to depend upon, Coach Steffens 
had to rely upon nine new men to 
bring home the bacon. And this they 
did very well, as Bethany had a vet­
eran team on the field. The new men 
showed very well considering it was 
the opening game, and by next Satur- 
lay should be ready to stand the test. 
There was considerable fumbling on 
<oth sides and the tackling was not 
lard and deadly.
To pick a star on the plaid back- 
'.eld would be an injustice to all four, 
but Acting Captain Phil Marshall 
./as as good as ever. He registered 
, touchdowns and had several long 
runs to his credit. Once he got away 
or 45 yards, but was tackled from 
;he rear after having side-stepped and 
stiff-armed all of the secondary de­
fense. He carried the ball to'the five- 
yard line and on the next play went 
over for the third touchdown of the 
day.
Loomis, a new man from Sheffield 
School played a banged up game at 
full. This lad seemed in every play 
and whenever a few yards were need­
ed for a first down he would go thru 
tackle or guard for a neat gain. 
Baldwin at right half and another 
new man at Tech, but who has play­
ed at Allegheny College, played a fine 
game considering he has only been 
out to practice only a few weeks. He 
scored the first touchdown on a run 
through tackle but was later hurt 
and had to retire from the game.
Coach Steffins decided to send 
Fletcher in a quarter and he played 
a splendid game and showed good 
judgment in selecting his plays. His 
punting was always good for 45 and 
50 yards, and he contributed a couple 
goals from touchdowns. His two 
misses were hard luck, as they struck 
the uprights.
The end positions were taken care 
of by Godden and Wittmer. They 
were down under punts and handled 
several nice forward passes. Vet 
Williams, captain-elect of '18 started 
at left tackle but suffered a broken 
nose in the first few minutes of play. 
Ilis place was taken by McLean who 
started at guard, Carey taking the 
hitter’s place. Moon at right tackle 
showed up exceptionally well as did 
Roth at right guard. The line stood 
like a stone wall against the Bethany 
forwards and opened great holes on 
the offense. Irwin at center showed 
he posessed the makings of a good 
pivot man, as he backed up the line 
well and had no bad passes. In the 
last few minutes of play Coach Stef­
fins sent Bloon in at quarter, R. Mar­
shall at half and Bollinger at the 
other half position. These men with 
Hayes and several other line men 
showed that there were several good 
men who were liable to spring a sur­
prise and cause a change in the line­
up soon.
For Bethany, Captain Latto and 
Randolph played the best game. Wag­
ner at center was in all play in the 
line and was hurt early in the game 
but finished.
After the first five minutes the win­
ner was never in doubt as Tech gain­
ed ground at will while Bethany was 
always forced to punt.
The game play by play:
First Quarter.
The kickoff was staged at 3:15, and 
Carnegie Tech kicked to the visitors’ 
quarterback, who ran the ball back to 
the 40-yard line, where he was down­
ed. Three yards were last on the first 
play. A 15-yard penalty was then 
given by the referee for holding on 
the line. Bethany then punted to her 
40-yard line, Fletcher fumbling, but 
the ball was recovered by Tech. The 
first play netted two yards, the next 
five, and five on the following. Wag­
ner, the Bethany center, was offside, 
and the visitors were penalized five 
yards. A plunge through center net­
ted five yards. On the next play the 
(Continued on page 4.)
FIRST GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
HELO IN MUSIC HALL
The first General Assembly of the 
faculty and students of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology was hold in 
the Carnegio Music Hall on Thurs­
day morning, October the second.
At 10:80 a. m. the studonts assem­
bled in front of their respective divi­
sion Buildings, and, led by the Tech 
Band of 35 ploces, marched over the 
Schonloy Bridge to the Music Hall.
When the vast throng of students 
had filed into the immense auditorium, 
the meeting was opened by a few mo­
ments of mass singing. This served 
to liven up the spirits of those pres­
ent, and afforded a convenient outlet 
for some of the ever-present Tech 
“pep”.
The assembly was formally opened 
by President Hammerchlag. The 
president made a short address, in 
which he welcomed the incoming 
Freshmen to Tech, and told them that 
they had come to the right institution 
in which to follow in their “pursuit 
of knowledge”. President Hammer- 
schlag, in the course of his address 
asked the Student Body to pledge 
themselves, by rising, that all celebra­
tions which might be called for during 
the school year, be confined to the 
Tech Campus. The students pledged 
their support in this matter.
After the President’s address, the 
executive staff left the stage, and the 
meeting was turned over to A. W. 
Tarbell, dean of men—as an activities 
meeting. In a short talk Mr. Tarbell 
urged upon the freshmen the neces­
sity of living an active college life, if 
they were to derive the greatest bene­
fits from their stay at Tech.
Mr. McCorkle, head of the Student 
Placement Bureau, told the incoming 
freshmen, in a few words, the op­
portunities for part-time student em- 
(Concluded on page 4.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1919
Published: every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered In the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-clasH matter.
This year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
0c the copyCanada, .$1.75
Editor-in-Chief....................................................................................LcRoy E. Emcrich
Business Manager ................................................................................John G. Kcclan
EDITORIAL
Managing Editor 
L. It. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editor 
F. I. Smith 
News Editor 
C. M. Blackburn 
Assistant News Editor 
J. T. Ames 
Athlctic Editor 
H. W. Lynn
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret .J. Griffen
Science....................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries...........................J. R. Rudisili
Design..............................T. R. Hinckley
BUSINESS STAFF
Charles Todd 
F. W. Allswòrth 
Assistants 
William Kraus 
Daniel Cassidy
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays.
WE THANK YOU.
The pageant given by students of Carnegie Tech at Forbes Field last 
week, as a part of the Dedication of the Bureau of Mines, was unquestion­
ably a success. We are not selfish, however, and even though the occasion 
was wholly a Tech affair and all the work was done by members of this 
institution, we do not object to the statement on the programs that the 
production was done jointly by Pitt and Tech. What does puzzle us is the 
question of why Pitt should be given credit in such a manner for the only 
contribution she made to the evening's entertainment, which consisted en­
tirely in having “barkers” in the stands who continually during the per­
formance attempted to drown out the actors by announcing that they had 
for sale tickets to Pitt's forthcoming football game. We do not grudge 
them the credit given, but greatly wonder at their lack of courtesy.
----------»----------
SPIRIT?
Were you satisfied with that sad demonstration of spirit at the Bethany 
game? You were? No—not one Tech man can say that was a good repre­
sentation of the old-time pep. You upper-classmen have been telling the 
Freshmen all week about our spirit; that we were always recognized for it 
and then—you set them such a good example.
The Freshmen deserve commendation for their showing last Saturday. 
lOven though they have been here only a week, they have already great speed 
what our upper-classmen seem to have lost. Between the halves about 
twenty-five uppers remembered the Snake Dance. It was new to the Fresh­
men, but they were there just the same. They never failed when a yell was 
called for. You saw it, didn't ypu, upper-classmen? Where were you?
We are going to Washington next Saturday and well—you have simply 
got to do better or Tech is going to lose that reputation that she has held for 
years. Only six hundred tickets have been sold and it is reported that the 
majority have been purchased by Freshmen. There are surely going to be 
more than that go to W. & J. Be at the assembly Wednesday and get your 
ticket.
At the next home game a section will be roserved for the Maragaret 
Morrison students. It is hoped that they‘will revive their old spirit and have 
some organized cheering. May they be asked to elect their own cheer leaders?
We all know better, of course, but we need to be reminded continually. 
At the next'home game we hope to see improvement. Upper-classmen come 
over in the bleachers whore you belong and got into that Snake Dance too. 
You aro noodod. Wake up. You surely haven’t forgotten everything in 
the year's rost.
5IGNIA ALPHA EPSIL0N_ 
INSTALLED AT TÉÜH
The Pennsylvania Phi Chapter of 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon was officially 
installed at the William Penn Hotel on 
Saturday, October 4, and a new day 
in fraternity life at Tech was inaugu­
rated with the coming of the first of 
the “Big Five” to C. I. I.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon’s farewell of 
fering was a big smoker at the chap­
ter house, 5444 Forbes Street, given 
by the Z. L. E. alumni to the active 
members. Dr. R. E. Brenneman, of 
S. A. E., Coach Steffen, and Dr 
Marks were present, as were the Fac­
ulty members of the fraternity. Dr 
Grondahl, Dr. Ithig, and Prof. Mc­
Cullough. The total attendance was 
about ninety.
A boxing match with Guillow and 
Cunningham as principals, and A. D. 
Moore, Science ’15 as referee, was 
the big attraction of the evening. 
Coach Steffen gave a talk, and told 
of Tech’s football prospects for the 
year. Refreshmentswere served and 
smokes were in abundance.
The installation ceremonies began 
on Saturday afternoon at the William 
Penn hotel under the direction of T. 
Gibson, a noted attorney from Vir­
ginia, and Hobbs, Eminent Deputy 
ArclSon, representing the national 
council of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. As­
sisting in the coremonies wore the 
Pennsylvania Chi-Omicron chapter of 
S. A. E. from Pitt.
At oight o’clock an eight-course 
formal banquet was served in tin* 
ball-room of the hotel to over two 
hundred guests. Among tho notables 
present were Chief Justice Nipport 
of Ohio, Judge A. .1. Tuttle of De­
troit, Don R. Almy, noted attorney of 
New York; J. P. Doitrick and E. W. 
Brown of the Beta Province.
Following the banquet the follow­
ing program was given:
Jazz Orchestra.
Tech S. A. M. Alumni Quartet.
Chairman for the Evening...........
11. P. Rankin, Pres. Pittsburgh 
Alumni Association 
Toast Master... Dr. R. E. Brennoman
Welcome from S. A. E...................
...................................T. Gibson Hobbs
Response from Penn'a Phi.............
.................................Jas. F. Gif fin, Jr.
Greetings on behalf of the C. 1. T.
Faculty......................Dean W. E. Mott
College and Fraternity ....................
........................Dr. Francis N. Thorpe
Presentation and acceptance of 
Loving Cup..Dr. D. T. James of 
Penn’a Phi
The theme of the evening was 
America first, which could best be 
served by a solid and lasting brother­
hood of college men the country over 
It was pointed out that had there 
been the union of college men, bound 
together by the lasting ties, that fra­
ternities have, the War of the Re­
bellion would have never taken place. 
Mr. Thorpe pointed out how the uni­
versities and colleges of America 
were moulding public opinion. Hav­
ing attended a German University 
himself, he made the statement that 
the German university was responsi­
ble for the war and that these univer­
sities still believed the same.
Of the local chapter men, to whom 
the most credit is due, is Dr. D. T. 
James, a dentist from Pitt, a former 
Tech student and a loyal Tech man. 
His untireing efforts and devotion to 
the “National” cause brought about 
the event that all Tech was glad to 
see.
The following is the list of chapter 
members:
D. T. James
F. J. Ziosonhoim
G. C. Smith 
S. L. Connell
E. W. Gaylord 
It. L. Kortlandt 
D. J. McFarlin 
P. E. Finger
S. W. Adolfzen 
M. G. Kingsley 
A. 1). Moore
D. S. Gardener 
C. T. Fletcher 
R. B. Bogardus
E. W. Harry 
T. G. Tiffany 
W. P. Powell 
T. H. Ross 
H. L. Parker 
II. A. Weber 
C. fl. Nickles
F. J. Nuttall 
J. R. Arnold 
E. C. Wilson 
C. M. Foust
E. A. Butts 
L. M. Collins 
L. T. Barry
L. O.. Grondahl
F. M. McCulluogh 
R. M. Ihrig
W. S. McKee 
C. A. McDade 
R. Ej'Martin 
W. Ki Fawcett 
J. F. Giffen 
J. E. Cunningham 
W. R., Mills 
P. W.,Craig 
P. C. A. Vetter
H. G. Atchley 
W. J. Blenko 
C. H. Barrett 
J. O. Keighley 
L. E. Welch
F. J. Heinle 
C. II. Giimm
C. C. M. Greiner 
W. J. Brennen 
T. V/. Allsworth 
J. W. Ford 
C. E. Powell 
R. L. Kreidler 
L. I-Iott
G. C. Balanrie 
W. E. Rice 
R. F. Lunger 
K. It. Knaell 
R. J. Beler
A. J. Christopher 
I). C. Saylor
J. J. Gorman 
W. J. Heiler 
• A. L. Elliott 
C. H. Davis
B. F. Davis
C. A. Carney
W. J. Ravenscroft
E. J. Itavney 
J. D. Kennedy 
G. A. Henderson 
G. L. Jordy
I. T. Meyer 
J. II. Penske 
C. J. Hauser 
A. L. Shook
M. L. Langworthy 
W. L. Wilson 
C. II. Gens
F. E. Haller 
A. A. Schoepf 
P. It. Guillow
Sunday afternoon the house was 
open to members of other fraterni­
ties at Tbcli and other friends of the 
S. A. E. Fraternity. Among the 
.loted guests were Dean W. E. Mott 
and Dean Bassonge and Dr. Brenne­
man, Mr. Hobbs and Mr. Rankin.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon is now but a 
memory and surely the new chapter 
of S. A. E., aided by the power and 
zeal gained by affiliation with this 
powerful national, will be able to add 
still more to the usefulness and bene­
fit of Tech fraternity life.
----------W—--------KAPPA SIGMA RIIO
The house is about settled and every 
no is’ happy.
Prof. Bar.res has been with us since 
•oturning in September and will re- 
nain till early in November—too. bad 
November comes so soon.
There is a persistent rumor about 
the house that the boys will hold a 
dancing party Wednesday night—we 
know positively that the dates have 
been made.
TAU GAMMA PHI
A smoker, the first social event of 
the fraternity in the year’s activities, 
was held on Friday night. Many of 
the older and the newer men had the 
opportunity of becoming acquainted. 
Several of the older men who had seen 
active service abroad had very inter­
esting incidents to relate. It was pro­
nounced a very good beginning for 
the year.
Mr. Ernest Dundeen has accepted a 
position with the General Motors Co. 
i.i Flint, Mich. He will establish and 
assume charge of a metallurgical lab­
oratory.
----------D----------
THETA XI.
Fraternity congratulates SIGMA 
RHO receiving a charter in BETA 
THETA PI.
House held a rousing smoker or. 
Friday evening October 3rd. Manj 
of the new men here at Tech were 
over and learned many things con­
cerning the general customs and noc­
turnal habits of this galley-slave life. 
The frenzied card sharks were obligee’ 
to content themselves with sucV 
fames as “500” and “cribbage” but 
in spite of this, everyone had a tre­
mendous time. Oh, yes, the puncl 
bowl as usual the center of a ver\ 
enthusiastic and demonstrative mob
Hard to realize that last weolc mark 
ed tho opening of the school yeai 
House was generally deserted in th 
evening. Suppose every one was pur 
suing his studies at some extraneou. 
'sanctum gi riorum”.
üniiüiiiipiMiiiiüiiiiiiüi
S’IiaiUfHììU' }JmïltgU'rimt tCliurrh
Ämhrrjsmt Aurmw <xnò iftpstmimin g>imi
iiiiiifliiiiiuoiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiigiiiiiiiiiiiiuniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'
üccb Bible discussion Group = IbaKocIi 0. SberrarO 
Margaret îiiîorrison discussion Group (Mrs. James IRbea
illieetinga 10 H. ill!., Sunday Morning, in tlx GbapcI 
¿on Hrc llnviteö, alili fou Gome?
“fll See JDou al Girarci)”
--'li: : 1 : : i: ! I ! li ! : : I ! : !i : : : I : : :::::: i a: . . : . ... , y
DELTA UPSILON
On Monday night a very successful 
smoker was held at the house. There 
were cats, smokes, music and other at­
tractions. A good jazz orchestra of 
about six pieces was formed. Hughes 
on the saxophone brought back mem­
ories of old times. Jack Willard gave 
a number of humorous recitations 
which were greatly enjoyed.
Nelson P. Rice is back in school 
and will complete his course in archi­
tecture this year. Rice received a 
commission in the aviation.
As usüal, Oliver Wilkins has been 
ko opting things humming wherever he 
He started a beach supper and 
smoker for the Bridgeport, Conn. 
Delta Us, which was a great success. 
Brother Wilkins is now attending 
Yale.
One of the new members of the 
English faculty, Charles Gott, is a 
Delta U, Tufts '11.
F. I. Lawson has returned to con­
tinue his course in Electrical' Engin­
eering after two years absence. Law 
son was a lieutenant in the field ar­
tillery and for a while was in the con­
voy service, having charge of the 
transportation of troops between 
camps.
Bill Swan and Louis Jacobson 
dropped in on Thursday night. . •=
The engagement of Brother Charles 
It. Little '20, to Miss Mary Josephine 
Smith, daughter of Mr. and . Mrs. 
Charles Redfield Smith of Toledo, O., 
was announced on Saturday.---------O------—
PHI EPSILON PI
The Chapter starts the coming sea­
son with every indication leading to 
a .banner year. Several of the old 
boys are back after a year or two iii 
service. Among them are Brunwass- 
er, Isaacs, Kitaif, Goldberg, Abe Levy 
and Harris. Negotiations are now 
under way for the purchase of a new 
chapter house, which the members 
will soon occupy.
----------V----------
WOODLAWN CLUB
Douglas Smith ¦who was in the 
'•eachers’ course in Industries 1916-17, 
is visiting us for a few days.
We welcome back Dave (Chick) 
Evans who was a student in commer­
cial engineering in 191G-17.
A Woodlawn Alumni house has 
i6on started at 5732 Baum Boulevard 
'y seven of the Alumni who are lo- 
ated in Pittsburgh.
On Friday evening, October 3, 
Voodlawn's opening dance was held. 
The party lasted from 9:00 to 12:80.
Therewere about 20 couples present 
and everyone enjoyed a very delight­
ful evening.
----------£------
BETA Z DELTA 
A very successful smoker Was held 
in the house Monday night, every 
active member attending;
Due to the fact that the house is 
full, only one or two' men will be 
pledged this year. These men have 
; ot been elected yet.
Arrangements for a Reunion Dance 
arc under way. The big “hop” will 
come off in about a week, the steamer 
“I-Iomer Smith” being chartered for 
the occasion;
-----»----:— •
OPHELEUM 
The fraternity takes great pleasure 
in announcing the pledging of F. C. 
Wire '21 of Youngstown, O., and H. J 
Fisher '23 of Pottstown, Pa.
The new pledges were entertained 
at dinner on Friday night followed by 
a theater party.
---------«---------
SIGMA RHO 
With the opening of the school year 
the active chapter of Sigma Rho has 
the following “before the war” stu­
dents in Science School: R. It; Lee, 
G. W. First, C. J. Copelyj E. H. Paf- 
enbach, A. A. Mankel, W. C. Smith, 
A. C. May, H. F. Sobeck, C. Ness 
I wine, F. J. Hurst, Evan Massey, R. 
E. Williams, “Vet” Williams, I. N. 
King. And in Design School the fol­
lowing have returned: H. T. Aspin- 
wall, B. H. Dielps, John G. Todd, C. 
A. Lake, F. H. Diaz and Max H. Pohl- 
meyer.
To date there has been no an­
nouncement that the fraternity has 
secured a house.
----------$-----------
OFFICIAL NOTICE 
All students who have registered 
without giving their Pittsburgh ad­
dresses will bring this information as 
soon as possible to the office of the 
Registrar. It is essential that the 
office have these addresses in order 
to have telegrams and mail delivered.---------O—*----
NIGHT REGISTRATION NOTICE 
Thursday and Friday, October 9 
and 10, registration for night students 
Div. of Science and Engineering, 
Div. of the Arts, Div. of Applied Psy­
chology, Margaret Morrison Division.
Monday, October 13, night classes 
beg|n—Div. of Science and Engineer­
ing, Dvi. of the Arts, Div. of Applied 
Psychology, Margaret Morrison Di-
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:Sunday School—9:45 A. M.Morning Worship—11 A. M. Christian Endeavor—:7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant.Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. >M. and 8:00 P. M.
College Men’s Bible Class at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland AvenuesGraded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7.00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7 
We want the Tech boys’to at­tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of I . “Friendly People." a hearty
welcome awaits you.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. Pew 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu­
dents.
^llll!lllll!lllllllllllllllllll!lll!!llllllill!IIDIIIilll!!l!lllil!ll!ll!lllll||ilü||I{|||{|||||||||||||||||||||||jj||||^
ì SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
itiiBiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMtiiiniiiiiiiuii

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNÊSDAŸ, OCTOBER 8, 1919THE TARTANck-A [YuAA
2Jgnac¡íS/SiSíSJSiSJSJSíSJSjCiit/SiSM£>
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes which make them instant­
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be­
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.
Our chain-store system affords worth-while 
savings. Yisit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN B.ETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio............................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. 503-505 Prospect Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis.................192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa..................507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa... 209-11 Smithfield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa..............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, N. Y...............138 S. Salina Si.
TERRE HAUTE. Ind.... 410 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa...........66 S. Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN O. .107-109 W. Federal St.
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J., early in 1920.
l5fgSMS/2M3MSi3M3M2M5iSMS/3M3/r?f5fPPirifiafn3ii?iiiiiiii/i3fiiii?oin]inJfn3rararararKirarnfp..rnrnf^mf=ii^
Right training wins the race.
NI. M. D. ASSEMBLY IS 
LARGEST IN HISTORY
On Tuesday morning the first Mar­
garet Morrison Assembly of the year 
was held in the theatre in Design 
School. The assembly room in Mar­
garet Morrison is no longer capable 
of holding the four classes and a new 
system of attendance at the weekly 
assemblies is being planned. Many 
r.oted speakers on various educational 
and social topics are to be brought to 
address the student during the year 
and a full attendance is desired. The 
new girls particularly are urged to 
attend the assemblies as a necessary 
and vital part of their school life.
Dean Breed addressed the Assembly 
last Tuesday. She welcomed the new 
| girls, giving them a brief sketch of 
thé ideals of our school which, if they 
are to be worthy Margaret Morrison 
girls, they must live up to both in let­
ter and in spirit. Dean Breed said vhat 
only in the educational institutions of 
our country can be fostered that spirit 
of balanced, common-sense which is 
the bulwark of our land against the 
ever-growing wave of frivolity and 
social and spiritual unrest. At the 
end of the Dean’s inspiring address 
she paid a high tribute to the upper­
classmen of Margaret Morrison in 
saying that never had her requests 
been denied her when she had asked 
for the loyal cooperation of the girls 
in any plan she had devised for the 
betterment of the school.
Several announcements of school 
affairs were made and the assembly 
was then closed with the singing of 
“Dear Old Tech.”
---------»---------
"RETURN VETERANS”
ACTIVE IN DESIGN
Monday afternoon at 4:80 tlie “Re­
turned Veterans” of Design School 
threw a bomb into the Carnegie's De­
sign School and started the ball roll- 
ng with a “Thousand-Mile Hike.” The 
purpose of this affair was to make 
everybody acquainted, first to promote 
Tech spirit, and second, to prepare the 
way for the coming Design Ball. 
Everybody from the greenest plebe to 
the most sedate senior were for the 
ime on equal basis and forgot that 
here was anything like work in the 
school.
There will be more of these little 
get-to-gether’s during the year, all 
hading up to the great climax THE 
BALL, and all of them strictly De­
sign doings.
FRESHMEN ARE HONORED
AS GUESTS OF JUNIORS
ELDORADO
títe master drawing pencil'
FRATERNITIES
ATTRACTIVE SNAPPY
YOUNG MEN’S STORE 
JAGEMAN & SPICKERT 
CLOTHING—HATS—FURNISHINGS 
6121 Penn Avenue East Liberty
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddaby’s Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
iSiSiSJ3/SiSiSi3/3i3i2/S/SEic
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
g Engineers’ Equipment, Instru- 
3 ments of Precision, Blue Print 
3 and Brown Print Papers and a Cloths.
I 126 SIXTH STREET
SMSJSMSMSMSJSMSMSMSMSJSMS/S/S/Sjej
Ü The 1920 Thistle Board has 
g been officially organized. They 
§| take this opportunity of an- 
1 nouncing that all contributions 
1 of snapshots, poems, and items 
: of interest will be appreciated.
SCIENCE SCHOOL SENIORS
NOMINATE OFFICERS
At a meeting held on Wednesday, 
October the first, the Senior Class of 
the Division of Engineering and Sci­
ence nominated the following men for 
the class officers for the year 
1919-20:
For President—
F. V. Heinle 
V. Beatty 
L. D. Aul 
E. Hirsh 
For Secretary—
W. K. Fawcett 
M. Epstein 
D. B. Gawthrop 
For Treasurer—
D. Abrams 
W. Dougherty
E. Story
M. A. Rogers 
For Senate—
Pafenbach
Kanael
Giffin
Seabright.
WON BY SOPHOMORES
Under smiling skies, and before a 
large and appreciative audience, the 
plebes and sophs went to it last Thurs­
day afternoon in their annual suprem­
acy contests on Tech field. After the 
j dust of battle had cleared away the 
sophs were declared victorious by a 
score of 20 to 10. One of the features 
of the afternoon’s sport was the or­
ganized cheering of the first-year men.
The plebes gladiators started out 
right by copping the first two events; 
the turkey fight and the pole run. At 
the close of the second event when 
the score of plebes 10, sophomores 0, 
was announced the plebe cheering sec­
tion went into an uproar. At this 
point, however, the sophs apparently 
found their stride and the tug-of-war 
which was the next event went to 
them. The line fight was also won 
by them, while the wrestling match 
was won by Henderson for the sopho­
mores. The boxing match was called 
a draw, and as both sides claimed a 
victory the decision seems a good one.
The contests were run off in very 
good order ,and much credit is due 
the committee in charge for the ef­
ficient way they handled the spirited 
gathering. One accident marred the 
day’s pleasure, but this was in no way 
due to carelessness on the part of 
those officiating.
CARNEGIE TECH ill-« 
«BID FIRST LUNCHEON
On September 24, the first luncheon 
of the season was held in the dining 
room of the Chamber of Commerce 
Building with Dr. Wm. L. Marks as 
the guest of honor. Every alumnus 
is talking athletics and wanting to 
get the dope on the season. Dr. 
Marks told in an interesting manner 
just what might be expected and 
made an appeal for alumni support 
of the athletic program.
The attendance at the luncheon was 
very encouraging, more than twenty- 
five men being seated at the tables. 
It is hoped that Coach Steffen will 
find it convenient to attend the next 
luncheon, which will be held on Wed­
nesday, October 8, at the same time 
and place.
Any undergraduates, who might be 
in the city at that hour, are welcome 
to the luncheon. Come and get ac­
quainted with the graduates.
On Friday afternoon from three to 
ve the Junior Class of Margaret Mor- 
•ison gave a tea in honor of the new 
freshmen class and all other new stu­
dents. The tea was held in the faculty 
parlors. The tea was one of the most 
beautifully appointed ever given at 
llargaret Morrison. Red dahlias form­
ed the centerpiece on the tea-table. 
Nearly all the new girls and many of 
he faculty attended the tea. An 
unique party is being planned for the 
freshmen by their sister class, which 
will be given in about a month.---------£---------The Editor,
“Tech Tartan”,
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Dear Sir:
Permit me through the columns of 
your paper, to extend a most cordial 
welcome to the students of the Insti­
tute and of the Margaret Morrison 
School, to affiiliate themselves with
RECORD OFFICE PREPARES
REGISTER OF GRADUATES
The Alumni Record Office, which is 
a part of Mr. McCorkle’s Department, 
is preparing a register of graduates, 
similar to the edition of 1916, and is 
soliciting graduates and former stu­
dents for the information to be pub­
lished therein. This register contains 
three separate sections—an alphabeti­
cal index, arrangement by divisions 
and classes, and a geographical dis­
tribution.
Many requests for such a publica­
tion have been received, which is evi­
dence that Tech men and women are 
interested in it. It is a most useful 
pamphlet to have in a library, as it 
is a complete record of all graduates, 
tlieir present location and firm con­
nection.
the Sliadyside Presbyterian Church 
at Amberson Avenue and Westmin­
ster Street.
We have a Bible Discussion Group 
meeting every Sunday morning in 
the chapel of the church, solely for 
Tech men, under the leadership of 
Hallock C. Sherrard. Mr. Sherrard 
is a local attorney and very able to 
handle the problems that will come 
up in this group. For the girls of 
Margaret Morrison, we are going to 
continue tho group that they have 
already organized under Mrs. James 
Rea. Mrs. Rea will be happy to wel­
come back the girls who have been 
members of her class, and is hoping 
for an influx of new girls. Both of 
these groups meet every Sunday 
morning at ten o’clock in the chapel 
of the church.
We are also planning several social 
functions during the year that may 
be of interest. More detailed an­
nouncement of these will be made 
later.
Dr. Hugh Thomson Kerr, the Pas­
tor will be glad to meet with any of 
the students and consult with them 
about any problems they may wish 
to bring to him. He will also be glad 
to discuss with any student, member­
ship in the church either as a regular 
communicant or as an Affiliated Stu­
dent Member.
Thanking you very kindly for the 
privilege of coming before your stu­
dent body in this way, I am,
Very truly yours, 
CLIFFORD E. BARBOUR, 
Director Students’ Work. --------»---------
A marked increase is that shown for 
he Margaret Morrison School, where 
the registration is nearly one-third 
greater.
iPllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllM
NOTICE
All Tartan news must be 
handed in by 4:30 P. M. on 
Fridays.
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
WfSiSJSJïïJSMSMSMfiJSJSJfiJôfâJËIËJlÜiDiJCJJCiJciJciJcü
P. LUDEBUEHL AND SON
HNYY RYF UFR ( ouCrtY 
ReNYsNu
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE | 
EXPENSE by buying better ¡5 
§ shoes. You will find them far I? 
3 cheaper to wear than shoes 
| which are not so high in quality.
^ Our new models for FALL and ^ 
WINTER are now in, and they ^ 
are full of snap—Just suitable [|j 
[a for the college man.1 £a is(3 (jc r;a fni ra [¡3 fp no no fpi fpi ra fi\i Gg?
i-’:
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions on the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL
Pittsburgh, Pa.
¦and in New YorkqA fact: New York surely does like Fatima. It is 
llie best seller at fashionable clubs, at the Stock 
Exchange and even at leading hotels such as these:
Astor Knickerbocker Netherlands
liel/nont Manhattan Pennsylvania
Biltmore McAlpin Vanderbilt
FATIMA
"—¦just enough Turkish”20 for 23cA Sensible Cigarette

---------------------------------------------------

ck-A SgpuTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER S, '1919
WMGLEYS
5
5
5
c a package
before the war
c a package
during the war
c a package
NOW
THE FLAUÛR LASTS 
SO DOES THE PRICE!
¦ i -f" O'H ATo
MENS FURNISHINGS
6 IOO PÈNÎM AVENUE.
.£%> aff-tjoar-'round soft drink
Fellowship—in college or 
out of it—flourishes best 
with good food and whole- 
some drink. Ice-cold 
Bevo—unexcelled among 
beverages in purity and 
healthfulness—is most 
satisfying as a drink by 
itself or a relish with 
food that makes a hap­
pier repast.
PvYAp.Au&’p.EY4 nG1 Cgp:.
It must be 
Ice (?o(d
PLAID OUTCLASSES
BETHANY—33 to 0
(Continued from page 1.) 
pigskin was fumbled, but a recovery 
saved the ball for Tartan.
Another plunge gave them five, but 
this wan lost when they were found 
offside. A forward pass by Fletcher 
was knocked down by Rosanica, who 
should have caught it, and Bethany 
'cot the ball on downs.
The first play gave them one yard 
on the 10-yard line. They gained 
nothing the next, Wolfe was caught 
behind the line on the next play for 
a loss of three yards. With 12 yards to
20, a kick was in order, and Fletcher 
caught it on the Plaid 45-yard line 
and brought it back to the 40. Three 
yards were gained on a run around 
end.
On the next, Baldwin took the ball 
around right end for a gain of 12 
yards, and first down. Loomis took 
it the next time, gaining six yards. 
Loomis again took it, but this time it 
was through the line, making four 
yards and first down. Tech received 
a five-yard penalty for holding. Mar­
shall took three yards on a plunge. 
Loomis put two more yards to this on 
the next attempt, and repeated this on 
his next trial.
Baldwin put the first marker over, 
when he went through the line and 
over the goal line. Fletcher missed 
kicking the goal after touchdown. 
Randolph caught the kickoff, and was 
downed in his tracks. Bethany was 
penalized half the distance to her 
goal for holding. Wolfe gained five 
yards through center on the first play. 
Another three yards were gained on 
the next try. No. territory was gain­
ed on the three next line plays. Bloom 
caught the punt and ran it hack .seven 
yards. The first play netted three 
yards. The next, which was an end 
run, gained five yards. The third 
trial gained four yards. But the vis­
itors took the ball on downs when 
the Plaid failed to gain on their next 
attempt. No gains were made on their 
first two plays. Bethany here pulled 
a forward pass which was very pretty. 
Hughes, the visitors’ right end, got 
through the Plaid line, and catching 
a forward pass from Wolfe, gained a 
total of 25 yards. This was by far 
the largest gain of the game for the 
West Virginia team. The first quar­
ter ended at this moment, the score 
being Gto 0.
Second Quarter.
The second quarter started with 
the ball in Tech’s possession. Loomis 
failed to gain on a line plunge. Beth­
any got the ball on downs when the 
Tartan failed to gain on line plays. 
A Bethany forward pass was smeared, 
and the next play was also stopped. 
Bethany punted to Fletcher, who 
yained 19 yards on the ruriback. Tech 
was penalized 15 yards for holding 
in the line. Tech punted and Wolfe 
netted five yards on the return. No 
vains were made on the first two 
plays and but two yards on the third. 
Bloom ran the punt back for a 15- 
yard gain. Wagner, the Bethany cen­
ter, was injured in this play and was 
laid out for a few minutes, but stuck 
to the game. Loomis made first down 
on an oil’ tackle play. Bethany held 
on the next trial. But two yards wore 
gotten on the next play. A line 
plunge netted but one yard. A for­
ward, pass to one of the ends failed 
as hi; dropped the toss, but Bethany 
had been offside so the ball remained 
in Tech’s hands. A penalty of five 
yards was also meted out to the vis­
itors.
Tech received a penalty of five 
yards on the next play when one of 
her forwards held in the line, and the 
Plaid lost the ball. But the ball did 
not remain long in the hands of the 
Bethany lads, as on the first play a 
forward pass was intercepted by a 
Tech man. On a run around left 
end, Fletcher made 15 yards. Mar­
shall took the ball on the next play 
and, with the aid of several of his 
backfield as interferers, he reached 
the five-yard mark. He shook off 
three would-be tacklers, and stiff­
armed the opposing quarterpack, who 
was the last man to bar his way, and 
had a clear field. One of the oppos­
ing tacklers, however, caught him 
from the back, pulling him down from 
behind.
Goddman made four yards when he 
caught a forward pass. Marshall 
achieved his mark on the next play 
when he went over for the second 
touchdown of the day. Fletcher kick­
ed the goal. The visitors missed the 
kickoff and the ball was placed on the 
20-yard line. No gain was registered 
on the first trial. But two yards were 
made on the next play. The first half 
ended here, with the score 18 to 0 in 
Tech’s favor.
Third Quarter.
The Tech band started off with a 
tune when the players disappeared, 
and the students in the bleachers, 
descended and formed in line for the 
memorable snake dance. Which they 
did. Twining in and through and 
encircling the field. They wound up 
in a great letter C. See? The cheer 
leadors decked out in white ducks, an­
nounced many things, among them 
the next game. This will be played 
at Washington next week. While
umifiuin
W
HAT man doesn’t like his pipe? There’s nothing whets 
your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around. 
Because you know that in it is the only real smoke satisfaction. 
Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it is a W D C, because in 
W D C Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine 
French briar is brought out by our own special seasoning process. 
Then, too, W D C Pipes are good to look at. The designs are 
pleasing and workmanship perfect. You’ll agree with us that our 
craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose — to make pipes that 
are without peers in all the world. Ask any good dealer. Be 
sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against 
cracking or burning through.
PLA IDLOUT 8C SEBB HDP NEYR
WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS OF PINE PIPES
this was interesting, all of the rest 
was totally foreign to us. A total 
miss. Right here the cheer leaders 
took their weekly exercise. But we 
didn’t get any. It was only for those 
who had the courage to appear on the 
field. Many yells were now in order, 
the locomotive starting the works. It 
goes like this, C-A-R-N-E-G-I-E, 
starting oil’ very low and slow, but 
ending up with a bang. Some noise. 
So as to let the girls who were in 
the stands get a chance to use their 
lungs the school song was next in­
troduced. At least it was to me. This 
was by far the peppiest part of the 
afternoon. Yep. For you got a 
chance to peep at the fair ones in the 
bleachers. Many of them there, too. 
The arrival of the Tech players was 
the signal for the crowd to move. 
Which they all did, in a hurry, making 
a rush for the best seats. Wouldn’t 
you?
Fletcher caught the ball on the 
kickoff, and ran with it from the 15- 
yard line to the Bethany 25-yard line. 
A line play netted 2 yards. Marshall 
took the ball around left end for a 
gain of 15 yards. He made a second 
first down on the next play when he 
gained 10 yards. The Bethany line 
held on the next trial. Tech received 
a 10-yard penalty for holding. Fletch­
er gained 2 yards at end. A forward 
pass netted 4 yards. No gains were 
made on the fourth trial and the ball 
went to Bethany on downs. Bethany 
could not gain on line plays, so, punt­
ed. The Tech received fumbled the 
ball, but it was recovered by another 
of his clan. Baldwin made 2 yards 
through the line. A tackle play net­
ted 8 yards and first down. Dunn was 
laid out on this play, but stayed in 
the game. Loomis bucked the ball 
over from here, scoring the third 
touchdown. Fletcher missed the goal. 
Marshall caught the pigskin on the 
kickoff and returned it 30 yards. A 
line play netted 8 yards. Bethany held 
in the line, and the Tartan failed to 
•jain on the next play. Loomis was 
laid out. A forward pass netted 13 
yards. Bloom was laid out on this 
play. The ball was fumbled on the 
next trial but recovered, and a gain 
of 1 yard was made in the recovery. 
Marshall made the fourth touchdown 
when he went around left end on the 
next play.
Tech ran the kickoff back to the 22- 
yard line. They could not gain on 
line plays, and were forced to kick. 
They punted to the Bethany 35-yard 
line. No gain was made at left end. 
A short forward pass mad e5 yards 
for Bethany. Bethany kicked, punt­
ing to Tech on her 20-yard line. The 
third quarter ended here. The score 
was 20 to 0, in Tech’s favor.
Fourth Quarter.
Bethany received the ball on her 
35-yard line on the kickolT. She could 
not gain on a line play, so punted to 
Tech, who received the ball on her 
•15-yard mark, running it back 5 yards. 
A left end run gained nothing. A 
series of line plunges put the ball on 
the Bethany 3-yard line, but a bad
pass resulted in an opposing player 
getting the ball. The ball was then 
taken over by Marshall. Loomis kick­
ed the goal. This made the score 33 
to 0 in favor of Tech. The remainder 
of the game consisted of line plays 
and punts, when the team holding the 
ball failed to gain. The ball was on 
the 50-yard line when the game end­
ed. Bethany held the ball.
TECH—33. BETHANY—0.Wlttmor ................L. E.............Latto (capt.)Williams ........... ..L. T........................ GwlnnRoth ..........................L. G...................... MarshIrwin .........................C........................ WagnerMcLean ....................R. G........................ PerryMoon .........................R. T........................ IrwinGoddman ................R. E................... HughesFletcher ...................Q. B....................... WolfeMarshall (capt.). .L. H............... RosanicoBaldwin ................R. H.......................MarshallLoomis .................F. B................... RandolphScore by quarters:Tech .........................................G 7 13 7—23Touchdowns — Baldwin, Marshall 3, Loomis.
Goals after touchdown — Fletolier 2, Loomis 1.Substitutions—Bethany, Coller for Mar­shall, Wagner for Coller, Mason for Dunn, Lumpkin for Rosanico; Tech,' Carey for Williams, Henderson for McLean, Saylor for Irwin, Mays for Goddman, Tlmmel for Wlttmor, R. Marshall for Baldwin, Bloom for Fletcher, Bollinger for P. Marshall.Referee—Dex Very, Penn State.Umpire—II. J. Blum.
lioad linesman—Ben Scott, Princeton.Time of quarters—15, 12, 15 and 12 minutes.----------$----------
FIRST GENERAL ASSEMBLY
HELD IN MUSIC HALL
(Concluded from page 1.) 
ployment—and urged cooperation of 
all to make the Bureau a success.
Dr. William L. Marks, Director of 
Athletics, urged that the support of 
the students be given freely to the 
varsity athletic teams. He pointed 
out the necessity of student support 
to the team and emphasized the fact 
that the various teams are the repre­
sentatives—not only of the institution, 
but also of the entire undergraduate 
body.
Dr. Marks was followed by “Wally” 
Steffins, the head football coach. Stef- 
fins spoke for a few minutes upon the 
prospects for a successful football 
season, and emphasized the fact that 
the students must get back of the 
team and support it as far as possible. 
Coach Steffins also urged that every 
Tech man and woman be present at 
the opening contest with Bethany Col­
lege.
“Honus” Wagner spoke briefly on 
the athletic situation—and announced 
that physical training would be re­
quired of all students this year.
Colonel Brooks, in charge of the R.
O. T. C. at Tech, and also the coach 
of the Varsity tennis team, addressed 
the assembly for a few moments, re­
viewing the past year’s tennis situa- 
ion, and prophecying an even brighter 
outlook for next season.
Mr. Battman, president of the Stu­
dent Council, explained the purpose 
and organization of the council, and 
outlined a few of its proposed activi­
ties for the ensuing year.
Miss Harriet Stone, president of the 
student senate of the Margaret Morri­
son Division, told about some of the 
girls’ activities around school, and 
urged that every freshman girl should 
enter into two or more activities.
In closing, an annual pilgrimage by 
representatives of the freshmen class 
to the tomb of Andrew Carnegie in 
the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Tarry- 
town-on-the-Hudson, was suggested 
by Dean Tarbell. Mr. Tarbell pro­
posed the placing of a wreath on the 
grave of the founder, on November 25 
of each year.
The meeting adjourned at .12:15 
p. m.
FRESHMEN ENTERTAINED 
AT
A small party, especially planned 
for the entertainment of the fresh­
men, was held by the Sophomores last 
Tuesday in the Assembly Hall at Mar­
garet Morrison. So . considerate and 
thoughtful were the hostesses that not 
a single freshman was allowed to miss 
the party. Some of the hew girls, 
timid at first, were rather reluctant to 
attend this affair, but these fearful 
ones were personally conducted. In­
deed, if everyone didn’t know better, 
it almost looked as if conscription 
were being revived.
A most entertaining and humorous 
program was then presented, the pro­
gram, strangely enough, being pr&r 
sented by the guests. The plebes sup­
pose that their hostesses recognizing 
their inferior brand of entertainment, 
graciously gave place to a superior. 
This is merely a supposition, however. 
The various and thrilling experiences 
of a pink pill were related and were 
certainly appreciated by the audience.. 
Several terpsichorean artists were dis-. 
covered. A most thrilling and realistic 
love scene was enacted amidst the 
gentle waving of stately trees and the 
musical twittering of birds. A be­
nignant moon shone over all.
The talent unearthed in the new 
class is certainly most promising and 
everyone is looking for several • inter­
esting entertainments by the fresh­
men. The spirit of good sportsman­
ship exhibited by the new class is most 
worthy of commendation, and will 
certainly help in making the class of \ 
’23 one of the best.
-O-
OF MUSIC DEPARTMENT
The band this year is under the di­
rection of the Music Division with 
‘Salt” Altdoefer as bandmaster. It is 
till room for a few more men, es­
pecially alto players. Candidates will 
eport to manager Seidel as soon as 
possible.
If you were at the Bethany game 
you know how much a live, pepy band 
helps things out. The fellows are 
working hard for the W. & J. game 
and are expecting ito put across some 
real music.
--------&--------
Found: An I-deal Fountain Pen.
Owner apply to Freshman Torbert in 
Architecture school. H. S. Torbert.
