Mademoiselle 
Guest 
Editor- 
See Page 2
Tech Runners 
Defeat 
Jeannette— 
See Page 5
VOL. 49—No. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., OCT. 4, 1955
Freshmen Select 
Queen Candidates
Last Thursday, at 4:30 p.m., the women of the freshman class 
chose seven of their members as candidates for this year's Home­
coming queen. They include Judy Thomas, Ann “Pete” Boyer, Pat 
Mueller, Lex Baker, Denise Getsie, Carolyn Hyatt, and Joan Masteller.
--------:---------------------------------------—?Judy and “Pete” are both Fine
o, l . *1 Arts students; the otherStudent Council
Homecoming Queen Candidates
Watch for these girls! They are the beautiful candidates for the laao Homecoming Queen. Only 
the male students are allowed to vote In the election which will be held in two weeks.
Left to right: Judy Thomas, P & D, Dayton, Ohio; Carolyn Hyatt, Secretarial, Schenectady, N. Y.; 
Ann “Pete” Boyer, Drama, Northport, L. I., N. Y.; Lex Baker, Clothing and Textiles, Youngstown, Ohio; 
Denise Getsie, Food and Nutrition, Pittsburgh; Pat Mueller, Clothing and Textiles, Aspinwall; Joan 
Masteller, English, Tionesta, Pa.
Faculty Appointments 
Made By Dr. J. C.Warner
Over 40 new faculty appointments and numerous promotions 
were made recently by President J. C. Warner, including two ap­
pointments as acting departmental heads for the 1955-56 academic
year. * ?-------------- — --------------------------------
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, Silli- pep Rajjy A
Difference Roused 
CIT Friday Niglit
man Professor and head of the 
department of chemistry in the 
College of Engineering and 
Science, has assumed duties as act­
ing head of the department of 
science in Margaret Morrison. Dr. 
Rossini replaces Professor Harold 
L. Lang, whose resignation be­
came effective last June.
Dr. John G. Fox, associate pro­
fessor in physics, has been ap­
pointed acting head of the de­
partment of physics. He will hold 
the position during the leave of 
absence of the department’s head; 
Dr. Edward C. Creutz, who is 
working on classified government 
projects for the coming year.
Well Travelled Faculty
New faculty appointments in­
clude a visiting professor from 
Japan, assistant professors from 
Italy and Egypt, and instructors 
from India and England.
Eiji Tatsumoto, one of Japan’s 
leading solid-state physicists has 
been named' visiting professor and 
principal research physcist in the 
College of Engineering and 
Science. Dr. Tatsumoto was a 
professor in Hiroshima University 
of Literatux*e and Science where 
he received his Bachelor and Doc­
tor of Science degrees.
Other new imported appointees 
to the College*of Engineering and 
Science faculty for the 1955-56 
academic year are assistant pro­
fessors Donatella Baroncini from 
Bologna, Italy; H. M. El-Badry 
from Cairo, Egypt; and instructor 
Bhagwan Dass Aggarwala from 
Kharagpur, India. Dr. Baroncini, 
who had been engaged in research 
at Carnegie Tech last year on a 
grant from the American Asso­
ciation of University Women, was 
named assistant professor and re­
search physicist. Dr. El-Badry, 
who holds his Ph.D. degree from 
Queens University of Belfast was 
named assistant professor and re­
search chemist. Mr. Aggarwala, 
named instructor in mathematics, 
was formerly assistant lecturer at 
the Indian Institute of Technology 
in Kharagpur.
Fine Arts
In the College of Fine Arts, 
Peter Arthur Buchnell from Lon­
don, England, was named visiting 
[Continued on page 8J
Friday evening, Tech students 
had a chance to observe the “new 
look’’ in pep rallies. It started 
with the march of the Kiltie Band 
and the cheerleaders from the 
Fine Arts building to More wood 
Gardens and the fraternity houses. 
Torch-carr-ying pledges from dif­
ferent fraternities and other stu­
dents joined the procession there. 
So far things had proceeded ac­
cording to tradition—street cars 
were disconnected from power 
lines and motorists were forced to 
pull over to the side of the street.
But when the crowd x-eached the 
Skibo Bowl, they got their first 
glimpse of the “new look”. An all­
girl football game was the first 
order of events. It looked “like a 
scramble for money,” commented 
one young observer. At “half- 
time” John Kestner’s “Beer Gar­
den Band” max-ched on the field. 
Many swings of John’s plunger- 
baton later the band proceeded to 
play.
Dr. Baker, after the half-time 
interlude, told the audience that 
this would probably be the tough­
est home opener that Tech has 
ever had.
Then Lenore Elwell, captain of 
the- cheering squad, with last 
year’s cheerleaders, Jo Ann Cer- 
win and Barbara Kerr, and the 
new members, Sheila Graul (jun­
ior), Barbara Russ (sophomore) 
and Julie Mahoney .(freshman), 
led the crowd in cheers. Says 
Lenore, “the new look is an ex­
periment to boost student interest 
in pep rallies.”
Tartan Meeting
There will be a short but 
important meeting for all 
TARTAN reporters, feature 
writers, and typists Friday 
night, October 7, at 7:30 p.m. 
in the TARTAN office. New 
staff members are especially 
urged to attend.
Homecoming 
Dance
Tickets for the Homecoming 
Dance which will be held in 
the gym on October 22, will 
go on sale in Skibo on Mon­
day, October 10. The price is 
$2.75 a couple.
Carnegie Leaders 
Seek Solutions To 
Campus Problems
The first Carnegie Tech Leaders 
Confernce, h&ld on September 24, 
ended on a note of planning for 
future conferences. At that tir^ie a 
committee was formed to publis 
a report of the proceeding of the 
first conference and to plan a 
s#fcond conference.
This committee met on Sep­
tember 30 in Morewood Gardens. 
Twelve student leaders, Mr. Striek, 
and Miss Shinn discussed the 
results of the initial Leaders Con­
ference and the potentialities of a 
second conference.
The committee felt that the 
results of the first conference 
could be translated into effective 
action only if a complete x’eport of 
the discussions held thex-e was 
available to each group on campus. 
This report is now being compiled, 
and will * be disti'ibuted to the 
group leaders in the near future.
The sentiment of the September 
24 meeting was overwhelmingly in 
favor of holding a number of 
Leaders Conferences during the 
year. It was clear that leader in­
terest centered in two areas: the 
techniques of leadership, and the 
all-acmpus problems. Acting on 
these cues, the conference commit­
tee has scheduled a second Leaders 
Conference to be held on Friday 
night, November 11, and Saturday 
morning, November 12. Prominent 
members of the Tech faculty will 
be invited to lead the individual 
discussion panels. A keynote 
speaker, still to be chosen, will ad­
dress the Friday night dinner, on 
leadership techniques. Leaders of 
all campus groups will soon re­
ceive invitations to the confex'ence.
The possibility of having a third 
conference to discuss all-school 
problems was discussed by the 
committee of 14, and it was 
decided to hold such a conference 
later in the school year, after 
campus organizations have a 
chance to complete px-eliminai'y 
investigations of the pi'oblems aixd 
their solutions.
Recognizes Social 
Calendar Problem
By Pat Mitchell
Last week Council took four 
big steps toward solving some of 
the social problems on campus. 
Most far-reaching in its px-obable 
effect was Council’s recognition of 
the urgent need for a unified so­
cial calendar for scheduling all 
meetings or social gatherings on 
campus involving any number of 
people. In recent weeks several 
organizations have been x*efused 
the right of assembly on Tech 
campus because they were tardy 
in submitting their requests to 
the Dean’s office. Many organiza­
tions, howevex*, have been avoid­
ing such disappointment by simp­
ly not registering their meetings 
at all. —
Scheduling Huge Problem
The solution of the scheduling 
problem does not lie simply in 
better policing of scheduling 
rules. There are about 100 organ­
izations on campus, every one of 
which has one or more gatherings 
monthly. Thus a minimum of five 
meetings per school day would 
have to be juggled as to time and 
place.
In addition there are numerous 
depax’tmental exhibitions and con­
certs. Furthermore, Dean Graham 
pointed out that last year there 
were seven “official” calendars of 
one sort or another, some listing 
such events as Steeler football 
games and Mosque programs. It 
was decided that this problem 
would require more than one 
meeting for solution and it was 
temporarily tabled so that the 
[Continued on page 8]
Maggie Murphs.
The girls will be presented at 
the different fraternity nouses on 
a date to be announced later. Neil 
Bernstein will serve as master of 
ceremonies at the Skibo presenta­
tion, to be held on October 11, at 
12:30. Out of these seven candi­
dates, three will be chosen for the 
court by the male students at Tech 
on October 18 from 11:30 to 1:30 
in Skibo.
The campaign will feature four 
posters and two composites which 
will be placed around campus. 
Those chosen to be on the court 
will be announced before Home­
coming, but the name of the 
queen will not be known until 
Cax'negie Day, October 21.
Colorful Exhibit 
Uses Mobile As 
Library Guide
If any students have climbed 
the staii*s to the main library, 
they could not have failed to no­
tice the attractive, eye-catching 
mobile that hangs suspended from 
the ceiling over the glass display 
case. This mobile sei’ves as the 
chief design in this month’s li­
brary exhibit. The mobile is not 
only a decorative attraction, but 
it also helps illustrate the many 
important functions of the facil­
ities the library has to offer.
Since the chief purpose of the 
exhibit is to help bewildered 
freshmen (as well as some upper­
classmen), the glass case presents 
the many varieties of study mate- 
l’ial available. From the various 
books and pex’iodicals to the gov­
ernment documents and informa­
tion file, all forms of study prob­
lems can be met and solved.
Judy Dunkle Makes 
Personal Appearances
Back on Tech’s campus after an exciting summer vieing for the 
coveted Miss America title is Judy Dunkle, a junior in the drama 
department. The Distx’ict of Columbia was well repxesented by Judy, 
1955’s 19 year old Miss Washington. Judy’s face, figure, personality,
_? and rendition of “That Old Devil 
Moon” prompted the judges to
Judy Dunkle
Miss Washington of 1955
select her over the eight other final 
contestants to represent the area 
in the Atlantic City contest Sept. 
5-10.
Judy returned from the Miss 
America contest defeated but not 
despondent. Her advice to future 
contestants is “Smile like mad 
and keep your chin up.” She ex­
plained that the Atlantic City con­
test was a lot of fun for everyone 
and a lot more like being on a 
professional stage production—like 
playing a part—than being in com­
petition for a title.
Some $5000 in local prizes, it - 
I eluding a British sport car, a 
Florida vacation, a fur stole, a 
radio-television set, a *profession;il 
stage contest, and an opening to 
the field of her choice, were among 
her awards.
As Miss Washington, Judy \\i!l 
[Continiied on page «j

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 4, 1955
Rachel Katzin Guest 
Editor of Mademoiselle
By Evelyn Alessio 
Feeling as though she had “caught the golden ring from the 
carousel,” Rachel Katzin, senior painting and design student, has re­
turned to the Tech campus after a summer which included, among 
other excitement, a month as a 1955 Mademoiselle guest editor.
Last May Rachel was chosen to* --------------------------------
be one of 20 college women from ' 
campuses throughout the nation
Plans for Neiv Year
By Bob Smith
Another opening, another show 
—the opening began last week, 
but the show, in this case, will 
not be seen until May, when 
Scotch and Soda takes over the 
gym for another Spring Carnival 
and transforms the varnished 
basketball court into a glittering 
theater.
The interim must be spent 
fashion and art and would like j on the vast task of organizing the 
to “seek out folk art and fashion, ! show itself—a job that requires 
using the information for creat- not only writers, designers, and 
ing contemporary clothing”, enter- | , but also t worker«;ed the art division of the college , actors’ Dut als0 sta§e workers, 
board contest. Her catching ap- ! costume makers, and poster mak-
to fill the coveted position of 
Mademoiselle guest editor at the 
Mademoiselle offices in New York 
City in June. Each year Mad­
emoiselle, a monthly publication 
directed toward the fashion, ca­
reer, literary, and personal inter­
ests of college and career women, 
selects 20 girls from its college 
board to be guest editors of its 
August issue, which is particu­
larly calculated to line up with 
the latest campus trends.
Promotion Director
Rachel, who is interested in !
proach to assignments won her the 
position of guest promotion art 
director for the August issue.
Her illustration of the feature, 
Where Do Big Wheels Go? on page 
334 of the issue was a major as­
signment, but it is evident that 
she was kept busy the entire time 
working on promotion. The de­
partment to which she was ap­
prenticed offered her many help­
ful tips and taught her “so much 
that they knew she would have 
to know.”
The 1955 winning team of guest 
editors, which included girls from 
Sarah Lawrence, University of 
Arkansas, Indiana University and 
many others, not only spent their 
month contemplating copy and 
bending over drawing boards, an­
alyzing current fashion trends, 
and studying questionnaires, but 
they were also whirled around 
the metropolitan area on a sched­
ule of events planned by the 
Mademoiselle Staff.
On The Town
Included in their schedule were 
visits to leading manufacturers, a 
meeting with Helena Rubenstein, 
Enrico Caruso, noted hair stylist 
Pauline Trigere, a tour of the 
fur market arranged by the Asso­
ciated Fur Manufacturers, a ball at 
the St. Regis Roof, an evening at 
the theatre, tours of Manhattan 
and the Hudson Valley, a special 
tour of the UN Building, and a 
look-around the New York Times 
offices. At the UN Building, Rachel 
was privileged to be interviewed 
by Radio UN.
Between times of completing 
assignments, meeting deadlines, 
and interviewing celebrities, the 
guest careerists had moments to 
wander around Greenwich Vil­
lage, up and down Broadway, or 
stroll through Central Park. At 
one time, Rachel found herself 
plunked into a chair in a small 
out-of-the-way bookstore listening 
to a salesman read strange poetry 
to her—“just because she looked 
like she’d enjoy it”.
In talking of the 1955 G.E.’s, 
Rachel eyes twinkled as she re­
called her key getting stuck in 
the lock of her door the first 
night of her stay in New York. 
Her plight brought the other 19 
editors rushing from their rooms 
and for the first time “America’s 
outstanding 20” were gathered 
together in the corridor of the 
Barbizon Hotel.
Publish Satire
At the end of their cosmopoli­
tan month, the group was so 
closely knit that they arranged to 
publish their own women’s maga­
zine entitled Fraulein, a satire of 
the publication they had just edit-
After leaving her “island of 
granite”, Rachel spent a month at 
the Brandeis Leadership Institute 
at Santa Susanta, California and 
then capped the summer as a 
member of the wedding party for
ers—people who sew buttons, 
pound two-penny nails, shout out 
the lyrics of a production number, 
pull the light switches, change 
the gelatine frames on a spot, or 
sell a ticket to a reluctant buyer— 
everyone has a part to do. And 
Scotch and Soda could be the best 
production the Tech campus has 
ever seen—if all of its three 
thousand students had a part in it.
Everyone who works on the 
show puts in many hours of the 
proverbial “blood, sweat, and 
tears.” But they always come 
back the following year for more 
because it’s fun, and the show is 
all theirs—the writing, the sets, 
the costumes, the music, the pro­
gram. And when finally the cur­
tain goes up after all the work 
more and long hours, they an­
xiously wait for the audience to 
laugh or applaud. The • show has 
truly become part of them.
International Club 
To Begin Season 
October Seventh
By Peer Soelberg
To be or not to see a foreign 
student, c’est la question at Tech. 
In this hour a solid ten dozen Un- 
americans breathe our same clean­
ed and starched Pittsburgh air 
with strength and determination.
Naturally, they like it here. On 
second thought, however, their 
amicability is perhaps not so “of 
course” after all. But the 120 gen­
erally agree that its nice to have 
Americans around, as long as they 
refrain from asking about the dif­
ferences between Swedes and Nor­
wegians, and other natures of in­
tangible questions.
We dare express our hope, and 
Dr. Warner’s hope, that the Presi­
dent will be able to welcome the 
foreign students en masse to their 
years of study at Carnegie Tech, 
when we meet in the Morewood 
Rec Room October 7.
It has been left in the com­
petent hands of our new Dean of 
Men, Dr. John W. Graham, to 
guide our foreign friends through 
the rocky passage of immigration 
laws, student visa, and lively 
American girls.
Fashion Show
Setting the stage for a busy sea­
son in the Club, Tech International 
Fashion Show will bring to life the 
faded pictures of poised rnen and 
women in their national costumes 
dancing to music of strange strings 
and bells. We also guarantee a Scot 
with no strings attached.
Lovely Susan Morgan of Sharon, 
Pennsylvania, the girl who gradu­
ated last year, has promised to 
return with a collection of her 
newest and most-talked-about 
original gowns. What chance have 
the French thousands of miles 
away when Susan reigns the 
market at home.
Friday night is also scheduled 
as Grande Premiere of the Techite 
Mel-Flayden Ensemble. There 
comes the combo to fill the needs of 
light feet and heavy heads. We are 
told that the number of pieces is 
not yet limited so joiners might
jo million 
times a day 
at home, at work 
or while at play
There's 
nothing 
like a
ic<ed on page 3Ì j
SO BRIGHT ... so right for 
you ... so tangy in taste, 
ever-fresh in sparkle.
SO BRACING ... so quickly 
refreshing with its bit of 
wholesome energy.
•OTTLED UNDE* AUTHORITY OF THf COCA-COLA COMPANY BŸ
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 
572? Center Avenue . Mland 1-WH
Cok." » o Wod. mork O 1935. THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
still apply some “low pressure” on 
graduate printers Melvin Clark 
and Hayden Duensing for future 
jam sessions.
Competing with such odds is 
John Kestner of the P&D’s. John 
is the type who doesn’t strike you 
when you meet in a dark alley, but 
once on stage he never saves the 
confetti. Watch out for his punch­
line, he aims for right between 
the eyes. He’s considerably deadly.
So here is your chance to win a 
friend perfect in German con­
jugations, the opportunity to find 
future ports of shelter on that long 
planned trip around the world. Do 
not our foreign friends deserve to 
meet in person the famous Amer­
ican girl and crew-cut boy that 
have populated his American 
dream castle? For better or for 
best, I shall see you in my Rec­
reation Room (Morewood Gar­
dens)—at eight o’clock, October 
7, of, course.
Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
journalistic honorary, aims to 
recognize outstanding campus 
journalists.
Veterans
There will be an election of 
officers for the Veterans’ Club 
Tuesday and Wednesday, Oc­
tober 4 and 5, between the 
hours of 11:30 and 1:30 p.m. 
in Skibo. Any veteran inter­
ested in joining may inquire 
at the election table.
Religious Activities
Roger Williams Fellowship
October 6—Dinner at 6:15 in the 
First Baptist Church, Bellefield 
and Bayard.
Discussion: “Pacifism in Chris­
tian Ethics.”
Lutheran Student Association
First dinner meeting of the year 
—all students to be guests at the 
meeting in the Lutheran Student 
Center, Morewood Avenue — 6:00 
p.m.—Tuesday, Oct. 4.
Speaker: Pastor Earl Knaus,
“Who and What?”
Friday, Oct. 7—8:00 Bible study 
at student center.
Wesley Fellowship
Meeting in First Methodist 
Church at 7:00 on Wednesday, 
Oct. 5.
Speaker: Dr. W. W. Ward of the 
Mt. Lebanon Methodist Church on 
“Universal Methodism”.
Meet in Skibo for supper at 6:00 
before proceeding to the Church.
Wesley Retreat Oct. 7-9 in 
Epworth Woods.
Theme—The Christian Student 
and His World.
Students leave Tech 4:30 Friday 
or 12:00 noon Saturday — return 
Sunday afternoon. Call Wally 
Donoghue (MU. 3-0242) for trans­
portation.
Phi Mu Sinfonia, a national 
honorary musical fraternity, in­
cludes in its membership men 
who have been active in extra­
curricular activities in music.
! Why Chancellor Adenauer 
reads The Reader’s Digest
"In my country.more than 500,000 people read the Digest 
in German each month. And they read not only about the 
people of the United States, but about the people of all 
nations. The Reader s Digest has forged a new instrument 
for understanding among men.”
In October Reader’s 
Digest don't miss:
ALL ABOUT LOVE. Las can we tell the difference be­
tween true love and physical attraction? Can we 
really fall in love “at first sight”? What makes us 
fall out of love? Scientist Julian Huxley brings you 
a biologist’s view of our most complex emotion.
THOSE CAMPUS MARRIAGES. How do student mar­
riages work out? Are young couples able to cope 
with studies and household chores? What hgppens 
when babies come along? Report on today’s col- 
legiates who promise to love, honor—and study.
19-PAGE CONDENSATION FROM $4.00 BEST-SELLER: 
“MY PHILADELPHIA FATHER.” Whether blue- 
blood Anthony J. Drexel Biddle was teaching ju­
jitsu to the Marines, singing a dubious tenor in 
opera, hobnobbing with pugilists or raising alliga­
tors in the house, he did everything all out—and 
then some. Here, told by his daughter, is the laugh­
ing, loving life of “America’s happiest millionaire.”
AMERICA’S TOP LABORITE: GEORGE MEANY. Life 
and beliefs of the man who may lead 15 million 
workers when the CIO and AFL merge.
Get October Reader’s Digest 
at your newsstand today—only 2Si
44 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading 
magazines and current books, condensed to save your time.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 4, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
Council Outlines Monetary 
Procedures For Organizations
The general procedure for depositing money, securing purchase 
orders and handling petty cash for the organizations maintaining 
accounts with the school will be as outlined in the following para­
graphs. ?-------------------------------—----------------
Any organization wishing to de­
posit a sum of money in its account 
must first secure a deposit envelope 
from the Dean of Students’ office. 
After filling in the required in­
formation the organization repre­
sentative takes the envelope with 
the cash to the Cashier’s office. 
There the deposit is checked and 
accepted by the cashier if all is in
order. The cashier then gives the 
organization representative a re­
ceipt which is to be installed in 
the organization’s bookkeeping 
system.
A new system for securing pur­
chase orders was also intitiated 
by Council. Purchase orders must 
be used when an organization 
wishes to spend money. These or-
0nC$npi9
with
JfexSfralraan
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek," etc.)
HURRAY FOR THE RED, WHITE AND GOLD!
There’s a new package on Philip Morris Cigarettes. It’s red 
and white and gold and pretty as a picture. You’d never guess 
that behind anything so bright and cheerful is a saga packed 
with action and passion, with love and romance and not a 
few tears.
It started quietly enough. The makers of gentle Philip Morris, 
as hale a bunch of fellows as you ever clapped your eyes upon, got 
to talking last summer during their annual outing on Attu, a 
secluded and unspoiled island, often called “The Capri of Alaska.” 
Capri, on the other hand, is often called “The Attu of Italy.”
But I digress. I was saying that the makers of Philip Morris, 
jim-dandy fellows every man-jack of them, got to talking on their 
last outing. “Don’t you think,” said one maker to the other 
makers, “that our brown Philip Morris package, though in many 
ways terribly fetching, doesn’t quite reflect the basic quality of 
today’s Philip Morris—its happy gentleness, its jolly lightness?” 
“Why, yes,” replied the other makers to the first maker, “we 
do think that our brown Philip Morris package, though in many 
ways terribly fetching, doesn’t quite reflect the basic quality of 
today’s Philip Morris—its happy gentleness, its jolly lightness.” 
“Let us have the pack re-designed!” suggested the first maker, 
whose name is Laughing Ned. ^
“Yes, let us!” cried the other makers, whose name is Fun- 
Loving Tom. “Let us! Let us! Let us!”
The makers forthwith engaged the prominent firm of package 
re-designers, Sigafoos and Associates. It was with full con­
fidence that the makers entrusted the task to Sigafoos and 
Associates, for Sterling Sigafoos, the senior member, is known 
the length and breadth of the world as “The Grand Old Man of 
Package Re-designing,” and his partner, Fred Associates, 
though a younger man, is everywhere regarded as a comer.
Sigafoos and Associates began their job by conducting inter­
views from coast to coast to determine what kind of pack people 
wanted for Philip Morris. The partners could not do the inter­
viewing themselves — Sigafoos because of his advanced years; 
Associates because he is subject to motion sickness — so they 
sent our two trusted employees: Mr. Walker Nylet (Yale ’51) 
and Miss Felicia Sigafoos (Radcliffe ’52), daughter of the 
senior partner. After canvassing the entire nation and tabulating 
more than 90 million interviews, Mr. Nylet sent the following 
communique to the home office:
“Dear Dad and Associates,
I call you Dad because Miss Sigafoos and I discovered 
during our long and exhaustive survey that never were two 
people so admirably suited. We have accordingly been 
married and have accepted a position with the United States 
Government keeping the lighthouse off Gay Head, Martha’s 
Vineyard.
I hope you are not too upset by this news. May I suggest 
you look at it this way: you haven’t lost a daughter; you’ve 
gained a beacon.
Sincerely,
Walker Nylet”
Well sir, old Sigafoos fumed for « while, but at last he calmed 
down and went to.visit the newlyweds in their lighthouse, bring­
ing them a suitcase full of twenties as a wedding gift. It was 
there he learned that people want Philip Morris in the red, white, 
and gold package which you are now, I trust, holding in your 
very own hand. VOL. shuim»n, i»w
The maker» of PHILIP MORRIS tvho bring you this column beg to 
remind you that for a while you'll »till be teeing Philip Morri» both 
way» — In the bright new red, white and gold package, and in the 
friendly familiar brown.
ders are obtained by an official 
representative of an organization, 
as approved by Council and the 
Dean of Students’ office. The rep­
resentative fills out the forms in 
triplicate and drops them in a des­
ignated box in the Dean’s office. 
Then the Council budget chairman 
daily picks up the forms and ap­
proves or rejects them in writing.
Within three days after the orig­
inal request the budget chairman 
drops the orders back into the des­
ignated box to be picked up by 
the organization representative 
whenever he desires. One of these 
forms goes to the business con­
cern where the purchase is made; 
another goes to the Dean’s office, 
and the third goes to the organi­
zation’s bookkeeper. Thus the 
power of approving or refusing any 
organization funds rests with Stu­
dent Council. It is advised that or­
ganizations submit purchase order 
requests at least a few days be­
fore the actual purchase is to be 
made.
Petty cash slips, which can be 
obtained from the Dean’s office, are 
used to secure a small amount of 
money. They are filled out in du­
plicate by the representative. In­
dividual receipts must be attached 
to the slips for each item enumer­
ated. Acceptance of the slip is 
made by the Dean’s office and the 
necessary money, after official ap­
proval is obtained, can be secured 
from the cashier.
Katzin-
[Continued from page 2]
Sara Kallins and Jim Feldman, 
also Tech students.
This afternoon from 4:30 till 
6:00, Rachel will be hostess at a 
coffee-hour at the Carnegie Union 
and has invited all girls who are 
interested in the College Board 
Contest, job opportunities in New 
York, or her story of how she 
“caught the golden ring from the 
carousel.”
Traditions Test
Notice the bright dinks and the both smiling and studious faces 
of the throngs of freshjnen who eagerly flocked to EH to flunk the 
annual Cwen and Scimitar quiz.
Westminster Foundation
Sparking the Westminster 
Foundation’s Tuesday night din­
ner meetings throughout October 
will be two noted professors from 
the Western Theological Seminary. 
Dr. David N. Freeman and Dr. 
William F. Orr will conduct “A 
Christian- Dialogue;” a vigorous, 
argumentative discussion on the 
Sermon on the Mount.
The Westminster Foundation is 
a Protestant campus organization 
including students from Tech, 
Pitt, and P.C.W. Tech students 
and faculty are cordially invited 
to" attend the “Dialogue” series 
at the Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church, on Tuesday at 5:30 p.m.
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
49—— No3C AoRE oR oG3 I3EOSTETU
Metals Lecture
The electron theory of alloys, 
which has divided metallurgists 
around the world into differing 
schools of thought will be discuss­
ed at Carnegie Tech Wednesday 
afternoon, October 12, by Dr. B. 
V. Raynor, Professor of Metal 
Physics at the University of 
Birmingham, England.
Professor Raynor is a world- 
renowned authority on alloys and 
has authored numerous papers 
and books in the field. He was in­
vited to this country for a series 
of lectures at leading metallurgi­
cal institutions by the American 
Society for Metals. Dr. Raynor 
will give another lecture on alloy 
theory during the annual semi­
nar at the fall meeting of The 
American Society for Metals in 
Philadelphia, October 16.
His lecture at Tech is the only 
one scheduled for Pittsburgh and 
is open to the public. Sponsored 
jointly by Carnegie Tech and the 
American Society for Metals, the 
lecture will take place in Porter 
Hall 100 at 3:00 Wednesday after­
noon.
Coffee Hour
This afternoon from 4:30 till 
6:00 in the Carnegie Union, Miss 
Rachel Katzin, 1955 Mademoiselle 
guest editor, will be hostess at a 
coffee-hour. An invitation is ex­
tended to all Tech women who are 
interested in the college board 
contest, job opportunities in New 
York, or Rachel’s month as a 
Mademoiselle G.E. in New York 
City.
the future resides/in MEN WITH
IMAGINATION!
I os Alamos Scientific Laboratory, the nation’s most 
important institution for the development of atomic 
weapons, is interested in interviewing young graduate 
engineers and scientists—particularly those wanting to 
help m the development of the atomic age.
In addition to its continuing and ever expanding achieve- 
ment in nuclear weapons research, the Laboratory is now 
pioneering in the fascinating fields of nuclear power 
and nuclear propulsion.
At the Laboratory, staff members have the opportunity 
of associating with leaders in research and experimenta­
tion ... of working with some of the Western World’s 
finest equipment and facilities ... of winning recognition 
... of achieving advancement commensurate with ability.
If you would like more information about the Labora­
tory’s career opportunities which are not civil service ... 
about the delightful dimate and area in which Los 
Alamos is located, send your
inquiry to 
DEPARTMENT Of 
SCIENTIFIC PERSONNEL 
Division I ialamoscientific laboratory
rHE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA *
IO* ALAMOS, NEW MEXICO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 4, 1955
Editorial—
The Tartan 
Takes A Stand
Last year the Supreme Court passed a 
ruling which outlawed segregation in our 
public schools. Such a ruling seems to be 
needed here at Carnegie Tech, where we 
have segregation of a slightly different na­
ture, that being our division into three sepa­
rate hostile encampments during class hours.
The E & S students as a rule scorn Fine 
Arts and MMCC courses, Fine Arts students 
associate as little as possible with the en­
gineers, Maggie Murphs claim their courses 
are as hard or harder as any others, and none 
really have any basis for claim because they 
have no common meeting ground in their 
curricula.
We are firmly convinced that there is a 
need for some degree of integration among the 
three colleges to create a closer feeling of co­
operation and of belonging to Carnegie Tech, 
not to just one-third of it. After all, we all 
are united under one administration, live in 
the same dormitories (within certain limita­
tions), field a common football team, and at­
tend all-school dances together. This vague 
thing known as school spirit, which is con­
spicuous at Tech by its absence, may depend 
on cooperation in the classes as well as out.
It seems as though this integration might well be started 
by mixing students of all three colleges in the same social 
relations courses. The situation existing now, where each 
school has its own English, history, economics, and psychology 
courses, certainly doesn’t help to stimulate interschool co­
operation. Also, a classroom of people with varied interests j 
and backgrounds should be much more interesting to parti­
cipate in and to instruct than a class composed exclusively 
of EE’s or P & D’s.
Several department heads have already been approached 
concerning this suggestion. They are almost all of the opin 
ion that such a plan would be nice but would require work 
to accomplish due to scheduling difficulties and differences 
in course content and unit value.
For example, the Fine Arts soc rel course which parallels 
the E&S freshman history course carries a value of 15 units as 
opposed to nine in the E&S course. Also the Fine Arts course con­
centrates a little more on the arts than the other one does. An­
other difficulty in combining these two would be in scheduling, 
as there are no Fine Arts classes of this type on Saturday and 
that is customary in E&S. However, we believe that these prob­
lems might be worked out and certainly should be investigated.
A possible solution would be for a combination course to be 
taught one semester and then separate courses, which could as 
“arty” as desired, offered in the next semester.
The problem of integrating Maggie Murphs and E&S 
social relation classes does not seem to be nearly so great. 
The course contents are practically identical and many of 
the instructors teach in both colleges already. Many would 
prefer to teach mixed classes. Again there is the problem of 
no Saturday classes in MMCC, but certainly the scheduling 
could be worked out so that engineers could have soc rel 
courses on any day but Saturday and save that day for any­
thing but soc rel.
The architects could also be mixed in with students of 
other schools in such courses with little or no trouble. '
The TARTAN is taking a firm stand in favor of mixed soc 
rel classes, and hopes that these can be accomplished by next fall, 
at least in combining MMCC and architects with E&S. It may 
take a little longer to resolve the problems of integrating other 
Fine Arts soc rel courses with E&S, but we think it should 
eventually be done. This whole problem is a good one for the 
Undegraduate Advisory Committee to get behind and push.
—R.H.R.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
Mlseiim 1-4557; after hours MUseum 1-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
Holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh IS, Pa. -
l.ditor-in-0'hief ..............................................................................................................Robert Russell
Hgsjnr'« Manager ................................................................................................................Vic Shiry\r»<t h ditar ...................................................................................................................Marjo King
>n«rt« I dititr ........................................................Tom Wright
< »py Kditor .. ................................................................................................................Richard Fox
I rat¦r«a Kditor. . ... .......................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Entered a- second class matter on October 4. 1907. at the Post Office at
°ut burgh. Pa., under act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
"ales of potage provided for in the act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented foi national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College 
i>l) Iters representative. 420 Madison A\e., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
l*er v ear.
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Hooray, hooray! Apathy appears to be dying 
out! This campus has been so dead for the past 
few years that a little excitement like stealing of 
fraternity flags, rerouting of automobiles on More- 
wood Avenue, or the turning on of the construc­
tion lights makes this old heart beat just a little 
with excitement. I have always maintained that 
a few mischevious pranks minus any intended 
malice reflects the spirit of a student body. Now, I 
do not sanction this sort of action, but I certainly 
do not condemn it.
* * *
Fraternity living rooms were jammed this past 
week with everyone, even fraternity cooks, icatch- 
ing and arguing over the World Series. I suppose 
the faculty dreads the Series since students cut 
their labs, but I’m sure some of the faculty would 
also like to cut in order that they could see the 
games.
=» * *
WRCT, which went on the air this past Sunday, 
performed one of their greatest services in an­
nouncing the Series score at the football game on 
Saturday. WRCT is six years old this year, and has 
been improving steadily through the years. They 
have a gripe however. Some thoughtless students 
have been tearing down WRCT’s signs announcing 
they’re “on the air” date. Happy Birthday WRCT.
* % %
Tech’s opening game and resultant loss to La­
fayette College last Saturday was well attended.
The support the team was given was no doubt re­
ceived with gratitude by both the players and 
coaches. The clever ball handling of Lafayette’s 
quarterback, Joe Bozik, was blamed for the loss. 
As one half-back blandly stated, “The first half we 
never saw the ball and were guessing who had 
it.” Nevertheless, the guys were always in there 
fighting and I don’t think the score accurately dis­
closes the difference between the two squads.
* * *
Quote of the week goes to Dr. Eddie Baker at 
Friday’s football rally and concerns the girls who 
represented the Tech team in the mock game. “I 
have never put a team on the field that looked 
that good,” said the Tech mentor.
* * -fi
An argument a couple of weeks ago between 
three guys in Donner Hall was forced to an abrupt 
end by the police department of this fine city last 
Thursday. The argument concerned the gullibility 
of the American public. In order to settle the 
sortie, one member of the group agreed to stand 
in front of Kaufman’s downtown wearing:
1. A rubber glove
2. A pair of dark glasses
3. A sign saying I AM A NUMISMATIST
Now a numismatist is a coin collector and this
person was going to stand with this paraphanalia 
and a tin cup in an attempt to collect some coins^ 
However, the police refused to give their much 
needed permission and the experiment (?) came to 
the proverbial screeching halt.
Inquiring Reporter—-
Fraternity Dorms
By A1 Federowicz
Last week’s TARTAN announced the awarding 
of the first contract for constructing one of the new 
iuplex fraternity houses, to be completed by next 
fall. Opinions on this new plan and the way it is 
being brought into realization vary from one end 
of the campus to the other. This week the TARTAN. 
has attempted to reflect to you a few of these 
diverse opinions.
John W. Graham, Jr., Dean of Students—Car­
negie Tech is particularly proud of the fine rec­
ord set by ‘ its fraternity men. But to help our 
fraternities realize their objectives, and to foster 
their healthy growth, it is clear that new housing 
is needed.
We have held as closely as we possibly could 
to the policy which we believe is in the best in­
terests of the fraternities—i.e., the basic cost of 
education should be approximately the same for a 
fraternity man as for a non-fraternity man. While 
we have not been able to realize this aim to the 
extent that we would like, nevertheless the frater­
nity plan which we have settled upon seems to 
be reasonable, and indeed to provide the only so­
lution to the fraternity housing problem.
A1 Woody, Senior Mech-Aero — Individuality 
w.ill cease to exist among-the fraternities once the 
new fratemity-dormitory plan has been com­
pleted. The fraternities will have two optional 
floor plans to choose between and the total ex­
ternal difference will be in brickwork and land­
scaping. Fraternity men will identify their houses 
to visitors as ‘unit three’ instead of as the BTO or 
ZMH house.
Tom Davies, Junior Physicist—I’m all for this 
new fraternity housing plan. It will permit more 
of our members to live in our house and will do 
much to alleviate present poor conditions in many 
of the houses.
Dick Major, Senior Math—It will provide the 
facilities sadly lacking now as to study rooms, 
decent working space for such events as Home­
coming and Spring Carnival, a chapter room and 
kitchen space. For one thing, if we were not to go 
into a new house in a couple of years, we would 
need a complete renovation of our present plumb­
ing. I think that the fraternities are extremely 
fortunate as to the attitude which the adminis­
tration is taking upon the issue, especially con­
cerning its financial support.
Thomas Mock, Senior Electrical—I believe that 
several of the fraternities have something to gain 
by entering the school’s proposed housing plan. 
These advantages are not gained, however, with­
out sacrifice on the part of the fraternity. At the 
present, the losses may equal the gains, but who 
can say what will happen tomorrow? The school's 
standpoint is safeguarded rather well, but what 
of the risks encountered by the fraternities? They 
have no equity in the houses, no insurance that 
present proposed costs will remain the same and 
what is most important in my viewpoint, they risk 
losing their individuality. Speaking as an indi­
vidual, I say that I am definitely against any pro­
posal that will attempt to make a homogeneous 
society out of a society of individuals and indi­
vidual organizations.
Vic Vet
By Greg Gaudio
My second day back on campus I ran into an­
other veteran, an old friend of mine by the name 
of Vic Vet. In case you never met him, he is, in 
my humble opinion, (Why must writer’s opinions 
always be humble?) a pretty decent person or as 
Babbitt would say (Attention Modern Novel) he’s a 
right guy. We dropped into Skibo to see the table 
that Joe Szewc spends his time over and to try 
to force down a cup of that potion that passes for 
coffee on this campus. Couldn’t locate the table, 
but we did manage to disguise two cups of coffee 
so that we fooled our stomachs.
Vic started right in telling me about one of his 
difficulties at Tech. Seems Vic thinks he’s malad­
justed. Just can’t get away from school in time 
to do his studying at Harry’s. What’s he studying 
at Harry’s? This year Vic’s making a study of ihe 
height of the foam as a function of the time he 
takes to pour the beer. Vic said that the only 
trouble with his project is that he has to drink 
all the brew. No rush! I’ve already voluntered to 
be assistant data taker.
Vic got kind of serious then. He thought that 
some of his instructors over-emphasize the fact 
when a veteran is absent from class and that a 
veteran is mature enough to be able to realize the 
end result of class cutting. I just mentioned the 
fact that though a veteran is an older student, he 
is not necessarily a better student, and he is by no 
means a privileged student.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday» October 4, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
Tartans Steamrollered By Lafayette
By Jim Lacey
The high-flying Leopards of ! 
Lafayette steam rolled over the 
Carnegie "iartans, 41-14, thereby 
spoiling the 1955 home opener at 
Forbes Field before some 4.000 
people.
Lafayette started the rout early 
and kept the pressure on through­
out the game. The first four Lafay­
ette plays moved the ball to the 
Tech 45 yard line. Joe Bozek, 
sophomore quarterback from 
Donora, then stepped back and 
heaved an aerial to Don Sayenga, 
junior captain from South Hills, 
who took the pass well behind the 
last Tech defender. Frank Mattison 
converted, his first of five for the 
afternoon. All this came with just 
1:55 of the game gone.
Tech Scores in Second Half
In the second half Tech held 
the Maroon’s from Easton to a >tie, 
but the 27 points Lafayette scored 
in the first half spelled the differ­
ence. The Tartans took the second 
half kick-off and drove 71 yards 
for their first TD. The backfield of 
John Tucci, Roy DeVries, Marshall 
Brown, and Tom Briner all ground 
out the yardage as the heavy 
Leopard forward wall gave grudg­
ingly. After 11 minutes of play 
Tucci sneaked into the end zone 
for Tech’s first marker. DeVries 
kick for the extra-point was good. 
Tech trailed then 27-7.
It wasn’t long before the 
Leopards got this touchdown back 
and added a final one for good 
measure. The Maroons took the 
ball on their own 11 and drove for 
the touchdown. Chuck Kozichek 
smashed his way over from the 
one for the score. Mattison added 
the extra point. About three 
later, Lafayette scored another 
tally, when they took over on 
downs on the Tech 19 as a fourth- 
down fake kick backfired for the 
Tartans. After three plays Matti­
son bulled his way into the end 
zone for thè Leopards’ final score. 
He then converted.
After the kick Tech marched to 
the Lafayette one yard line from 
their own 11 on Tucci’s five for 
five passes and one roughing the 
passer penalty. Tucci hit Brown 
once, Ken Ficery twice, and Larry 
Cas^ett twice with bullet aerials. 
Tucci dove over from the one and 
Ficery converted.
Strong Opening By Lafayette
After the first quick Lafayette 
TD. the Leopards added three 
more before the half ended. Bozik 
faked to his fullback then broke 
through Tech’s line for 20 yards 
and their second TD. Bozik’s try 
for the extra point was wide. The 
Leopards started another drive 
late in the first period. Gordon 
Brown drove over from the two 
on the first play of the second
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST 
For Games on October 8, 1955
TeamScore
A completed pass from Tucci is pulled down by Majeski in the 
third quarter of Saturday’s mishap at Forbes Field.
Thinclads 
Down Harriers
By Dick Swaney
Coach Caiman’s thinclads show­
ed again Saturday morning that 
they are to be feared as a potential 
champion. By downing the Har­
riers from Jeannette 22-38, the 
Tartans served notice to Geneva, 
last year’s Tri-state champs, that 
Tech is out to recapture the crown 
they lost last outing.
The Plaid was sparked by Larry 
Bryant, junior metallurgical en­
gineer who ran cross-country for 
the first time Saturday. But neither 
the distance nor the course proved 
to be obstacles to “Sig* as he 
cruised over the paths to a 21 
minute first place victory. Hallo­
way from Jeannette followed 
Larry across the finish line, 
erasing Bill Bryant’s bid for the 
second slot by a bare six feet. 
Fourth was Bill Whitman, and 
fifth, Eric Otlinch.
[Continued on page 6]
quarter. Mattison added the point 
again. The Maroons got the ball 
again on Tech’s 19 yard line when 
a bad pass from center went over 
Brown’s head on a fourth-down 
punt. On the third play A1 Caesar 
jump-passed to A1 Adelmann for 
6 yards and the marker. Mattison 
booted the extra point.
The statistics of the game were 
surprising in some respects. One 
was that Lafayette led by only 16 
to 15 in first downs. Another was 
Tech hit on 11 of 24 passes for 
only 149 yards while Lafayette 5 
for 7 for 123 yards. The statistic 
that was not surprising was that 
Lafayette led in net yards gained
at 415 to 204 for Tech.
It was evident that Lafayette 
was stronger when last year’s 
starting s t.a r t i n g quarterback, 
George Bartlett, and fullback 
Frank Mattison were moved to the 
second team behind Bozik and 
Kozichek, although both saw 
plenty of service in this rout as 
Steve Hokuf tried to hold the 
score down. Also missing, but not 
needed was Lafayette’s star, Bryon 
Satterlee, who was injured and 
missed the game completely.
Next week Tech travels to Bal­
timore to meet the John Hopkins 
Blue Jays, coached by John 
Bridges.
Carnegie Tech 
Army
Georgia Tech 
Duke
Holy-Cross
Pitt
Lehigh
Illinois
Oklahoma
Maryland
Princeton
Northwestern
Alabama
Purdue,
Yale
Team
John Hopkins 
Michigan 
L. S. U.
William and Mary
Colgate
Navy
BuCknell
Ohio State
Texas (Dallas)
Wake Forest
Pennsylvania
Minnesota
Texas Christian
Iowa
Columbia
Score
NAME...................................................DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1956 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTAN’S weekly football contest.
Read the contest'rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day’s games. <~
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub­mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each week’s contest will receive a 1956 Thistle subscription, re­deemable at the time of publication.
LOOK AT ALL THE CHECKERED FLAGS 
CHEVROLET’S COLLECTED!
Drive with core... EVERYWHERE!
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAÏNT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Great Features backup Chevrolet Performance: Anti-Dive Braking—Ball-Race Steering—Out­
rigger Rear Springs—Body by Fisher—12-Volt Electrical System—Nine Engine-Drive Choices.
Every checkered flag signals a 
Chevrolet victory in official 1955 stock cor 
competition—not only against its own field 
but agoinst many American ond foreign 
high-priced cars, tool
Let’s translate these victories into 
your kind of driving. You’ve got to 
have faster acceleration to win on 
the tracks. And that means safer 
passing on the highways. You’ve 
got to have better springing and 
suspension. For you: safer and hap­
pier motoring. You’ve got to have 
big, fast-acting brakes and easy, ac­
curate steering. More things that 
make your driving safer! Come «i 
and drive a Chevrolet ycurself.
DAYTONA BEACH, FLA. 
FAYETTEVILLE, N.C. 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 
JERSEY CITY, N.J. 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
TORONTO, CANADA 
BELMAR, N.J.
CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA 
BALTIMORE, MD. 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
FLOYD, VA.
GRAND FORKS, N.D.
MINOT, N.D. 
LYNCHBURG, VA.
CANFIELD, O. 
MILWAUKEE, WIS. 
CINCINNATI, O.
FLAT ROCK, MICH. 
JEFFERSONVILLE, IND. 
DARLINGTON, S.C. 
HAMMOND, IND. 
DETROIT, MICH.
The safer car wins . « . 
and Chevrolet’s 
the winning car
NOW’S THE TIME TO BUY! 
LOW PRICES-BIG DEALSl 
ENJOY A NEW CHEVROLET
See Your Chevrolet Dealer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 4, 1955
Manager’s Club 
Names Officers
Table Tennis........... February17
(singles and doubles)
Handball (team) .........March17
Swimming Meet .........March24
Foul Shooting .. .........March24
Intramural Night........March24
28
Horseshoes ......................April13
Track ..............................April14
Softball ................14
Del Ritchie of the ATO team goes for an end run.
IM Football Races 
Promise Thrills
By Gerald Pittler
The intramural football program commenced a week ago Mon­
day and continued through Friday with several important games 
played to date and several more contests to follow this week.
At a meeting of the Manager’s 
Club Tuesday, officers were select- ! 
ed for^the fall semester. Due to 
some controversy, the president’s ! 
election was postponed until the [ 
next meeting which will be held at : o o npa tj
12:30 on October 11. However, Ron j OTlteSt fJ OTl Oy
Anjard, Newman Club, was elected ¦ .. jy I,
vice-president, and John Croy, Al- \ t-jVerett t^arKer 
pha Tau Omega, was elected sec- j The first contest award for the 
retary-treasurer. j 1955 football season went to Ever-
The Manager’s Club consists of j ett Parker, a senior meallurgist, 
representatives of the fraternities,! who correctly named 13 of the 15 
dormitories and independents ' winners in the weekly Tartan 
which field intramural teams. j contest. Everett was closely fol- 
. At the meeting the touch foot- ’lowed a lar§e number of con- 
ball rules were reviewed, and it 
was decided to settle all tie games 
by giving the teams four alternat­
ing plays. The number of men on 
each football roster was changed 
from 12 to 15. It was also decided 
to award a sportsmanship title this 
year. The following program for j the' contest by the Tartan sports 
the remainder of the year was re- ! editor as soon as arrangements are 
leased. ! completed.
testants who correctly named 12 
of the 15 winners. Everett’s only 
mistakes were in Stanford’s win 
over Ohio State and Vanderbilt’s 
win over Alabama.
A certificate for the 1955 Thistle 
will be presented to the winner
Entries Due
Co-Rec Volleyball .... October 3
Bridge .................<. .November 4
Volleyball....................November 11
Table Tennis (team) November 11
Water Polo..................November 21
Bowling ......................November 30 \
C ail Pool......................December 16
T Basketball ........................December 16In the Tartan League ATO, the defending champions, won their • Co-Rec Badminton ...February 3
only game downing PKA 12-2 in a hard fought contest. The PKA’s { Wrestling...........................February 17
couldn’t generate an offense be- ^ _ Rifle ..............................February 24
cause of the superb defense of the 
ATO squad. Both teams showed 
great defense strength but very 
little tricky offense work. The 
PKA’s bounced back later in the 
week by whipping highly rated 
TX in a hard fought contest.
The Delts, using a raatle dazzle 
offense sparked by Ken Laughey 
and Bill Wilton won their two 
games last week downing the 
Obelisks by forfeit and then whip­
ping the Newman Club 24-7. The 
Alpha Tau Omega and Delt squads 
clash in an important encounter 
this Thursday with the winner 
standing a good chance of taking 
the league crown. However, TX,
PKA, and the Newman Club, all 
with one loss, could prove troub­
lesome for these contenders as they 
all are rugged teams.
Kappa Sig, the odds on favorite 
to win the Kiltie League touch 
football crown, won its only game 
this week by downing PK “B”
23-2. SN, a strong contender in 
this league, won two games, de­
feating EE-ME by forfeit, while 
Flock and Schorr; SN quarterbacks,, 
led the team to a 30-2 win in their j 
second game, trouncing Citcom. !
They are regarded as the chief 
threat to Kappa Sig and are con­
fident of upsetting the boys from 
Clyde Street when they play this 
Thursday. This game should prove 
to be one of the top games of the 
IM football season.
In the Skibo League SAE and 
DU looked impressive in their 
games last week. SAE easily de­
feated ATO “B” 28-1 while DU, 
led by the passing of Branscome 
and Cinfonelli, also whipped ATO 
“B” by a score of 22-1. PK “A” 
winners over ASCE by 13-2, is 
also a strong contender for the' 
league honors. However these 
teams do not play each other until 
the end of the season so the league 
champion will probably not be 
known until the final week of play.
Standing of clubs:
Tartan League
DTD .......................................
ATO “A” .............................
PKA.......................................
Newman .........................
TDP .......................................
TX .........................................
Obelisks ................................... 0-1
Kiltie League
SN .........................................
KS .........................................
Grads .....................................
BTP .......................................
EE ME ...................................
PK “B” .................................
Citcom ..................................
Skibo League
SAE .......................................
DU .........................................
BSR ........................................... 1-0
PK “A”..................................... 1-0
ASCE ......................................... 0-1
Static Changes......................... 0-1
ATO “B” ................................. 0-2
WHAT’S THIS?
For solution see 
paragraph at right.
X-RAY OF ADAM 
(AFTER IVE)
Judith Hey 
Boston U.
OCTOPUS AT ATTENTION
Jerry Romotsky 
North Texas State
SPRING HAT
Dale Sponaugle 
West Va. U.
Touch Football 
Officials
All touch football officials 
sign up at the beginning of 
each week, on the I.M. bulle­
tin board, behind the games 
you wish to work for that 
week.
Co-Rec Volleyball
Entries are due for co- 
recreational volleyball on Oc­
tober 3; play begins October 
11. The teams will consist of 
eight men and eight girls. The 
games will be played on Tues­
day and Thursday evenings. 
This year’s student represent­
atives are Bruce Bowen for 
the men and Joan Henricksen 
for the girls.
Cross-Country—
[Continued from page 5]
Coach, Carman was rightly 
pleased about his team’s victory 
since this same Jeannette squad 
had previously whipped Slippery 
Rock, Tech’s opponent of October 
14. But if a certain fraternity finds 
it more advantageous to send out 
their pledges to steal and reap 
devastation while everyone else is 
at the football game, how can the 
Tartan thinclads expect to get any 
support?
Wes Santee Here
Friday afternoon will find the 
Geneva Harriers invading the 
Skibo camp. Among its notables 
are Homer -Weaver, consistent 
champion of cross-country and 
track, and Bill Jackson and Len 
Spurrier. Also, of interest to the 
track fans, Wes Santee will be on 
hand Saturday at 1:30 to run 
against Arnie Sowell over Tech’s 
4.3 mile course starting at Flagstaff 
Hill.
IF YOU’RE UP A TREE about what cig­
arette to smoke, there’s" a pleasant 
point of view in the Droodle at left. 
It’s titled: Davy Crockett enjoying 
better-tasting Lucky as seen by b’ar 
in tree. Luckies taste better for a 
hatful of reasons. First of all, Lucky 
Strike means fine tobacco. Then, that 
thar tobacco is toasted. “It’s Toasted” 
—the famous Lucky Strike process— 
tones up Luckies’ light, mild, good- 
tasting tobacco to make it taste even 
better... cleaner, fresher, smoother. 
So set your sights on better taste— 
light up a Lucky yourself!
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
Students!EARN
*25®«!
Cut yourself in on the Lucky Droodle gold mine. We pay $25 for all we use—and for a whole raft we don’t use! Send your Dr oodles with descrip­tive titles, include your name, address, college and class and the name and address of the dealer in your college town from whom you buy ciga­rettes dress Box
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER - Cleaner, Fresher. Smoother!
©A.T. Co. PRODUCT OF 77^- AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OFCIGARETTES

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 4, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
^CÂBNEGOki/ .f) 
" «
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ........................................................................................ Dolores Neff
Reporters...............John Van Holt, Jr., Matt Bertovich, Albert Duzy,
Emily Muhic, Chuck Labee
ES Newman Club 
Chooses Delegates 
To PIFCSO Meet
Theresa Defino and Elvira Lo- 
reski were recently appointed by 
Newman Club President John Van 
Holt, Jr., to serve as delegates to 
the Pittsburgh Intercollegiate Fed­
eration of Catholic Students Or­
ganization.
The appointments became nec­
essary when Bill Groll, past dele­
gate, tendered his resignation due 
to insufficient time to devote to his 
duties.
Kathleen Kennedy, appointed 
delegate last year, failed to return 
to school this semester, and an 
appointment was necessary to fill 
the vacancy.
Satire Schmoe, Evening Student 
Registers In Five Minutes
The date is September 13 or 14, the place is the Tech gym, and 
the occasion is registration for the fall semester Evening School classes.
The stairway and pathway leading to the gym are “sardine- 
packed” with Evening School (and some Day School) aspirants of
higher learning waiting for the*------------------------------------------------—
opening of the doors.
The seconds tick off—5, 4, 3, 2,
1, ZERO. Dalzell McKelway, Reg­
istrar of Evening classes performs 
the duty of sergeant-at-arms and 
opens yon portals to the nth de­
gree. Mr. McKelway, from many 
years of experience in this role at 
C.I.T. knows fully that it is sheer 
folly, nay suicide, to be within ten 
yards of the impending stampede.
Being a very wise and understand­
ing man who feels that “youth 
must have its fling,” he decides 
to ask for a volunteer to stay the 
onrushing onslaught of a sea of 
humanity. A huge, burly, not too 
bright first year evening student 
feels that he will brave the raft 
of heels, toes, knees, and elbows 
with decorum, aplomb, and in­
testinal fortitude.
On a Dime
The surging, not to be denied 
tide of determination storms to­
wards well decorated, air-wicked 
gymnasium—but wait! Suddenly a 
resounding screech of instantan- 
ious application of rubber heels 
on wooden floors is heard as the 
now but not too eager would-be 
students come to a halt.
Before them stands the strong, 
erect, dominating, imposing, ma­
jestic physique of a red-blooded 
American boy who defies anyone 
to enter the gym in any manner 
not approved by Amy Vanderbilt.
With a triumphant smile reflecting 
the results of an assignment nobly 
carried out, the huge, burly, not 
too bright, first year evening stu­
dent turns his back to the eager 
students for a split second and 
it nearly causes him the loss of life 
and limb.
Quicker than you can say Vlad­
imir Stephenasko Hesashowoffski, 
a sudden gust of wind (shades of 
Hurricane Connie) of supersonic 
sound barrier breaking proportions 
descends upon and through the sea 
of humanity lining the stairway, 
pathway, and corridor. This 
mighty hurricane, a product of the 
“good old days” when hurricanes 
were to be reckoned with, is none 
other than our staunch hero, Satire 
Schmoe, the Skibo Speedster of
Evening Council 
To Hold Insignia 
Award Banquet
As has been customary in past 
years, the Evening Student Coun­
cil has planned the Insignia Award 
Banquet to officially recognize 
workers who, through extra curric­
ular activities, exemplify the true 
aims of the organization.
The banquet is scheduled to take 
place at the Carnegie Union on 
Saturday, October 15, at 6:30 p.m. 
Notices of this affair have been 
mailed to all those eligible for an 
insignia award and it is hoped that 
there will be 100% attendance.
The following is a list of those 
people eligible for this award and 
the number of points earned dur­
ing the last school year:
Floyd Byers .............................................. 73
George Bogovich ................................ 26 Vx
Matt Bertovich ........................................108 Vx
Ralph Czemak ....................................... 72
Edward Daly, Jr.....................................51
Vincent Golobic .................................... 62
Kathy Galligan ......................................26 Va
William Groll .......................... 55Vx
Ray Klima.s .............................................28
Byron May ............................ 58
Emily Muhic ...........................................59
Joan Mack .............................................. 25 Vx
Dolores Neff ................................................121
Mary Alice Peterson .......................... 51
Frank Polma ...........................................46*4
Ken Pore ................................................. 25 Vx
Pat Renkawek ......................................45Vx
Gini Ross............................................ 34
Ray Schwalm ........................................87
George Schussler ...................................20
Jim Soltis ............................................. 31 Vx
Edna Thorwart.........................................22 Vx
John Van Holt, Jr...................................25
Jean Woods .............................................38
the class of ’85 (1985, that is).
Record Registration
He grabs any and all forms of 
registration papers and cards that 
may fall within his view includ­
ing application forms for Phi Gam­
ma Pi Sorority, blank registration 
forms for Margaret Morrison, and 
room reservation forms for More- 
wood Gardens. Schmoe isn’t such 
a schmoe after all.
Having reaped his harvest in the 
gymnasium, he bounds down the 
stairs towards the cashiers’ coun­
ters. He reaches into his left pocket 
with his right hand, then into his 
right pocket with his left hand. 
(His frequent visits to various 
types of joints have made him 
double-jointed!) In like manner, 
he reaches into his hip pockets, but 
to no avail. You guessed it. He left 
his wallet on a table at The Greeks 
where he had stopped prior to class 
registration for liquid refresh­
ment.
Satire Schmoe can dwell in 
retrospect on the quotation, “The 
last shall be first!” Any how, his 
record in ten years of Evening 
School of always being the first 
student to complete his class reg­
istration in less than five minutes 
is still intact. Pour me another 
glass of “What’ll You Have?”
Rough Dry Laundry Service
NOW AVAILABLE ATTECH CLEANERS A-34 DONNER HALL
Open: 5-8 p.m. Monday to Friday; 12-3 p.m. Saturday
PITTSBURGH OPERA Inc.
RICHARD KARP, General Director 
PRESENTS ^
Grand Opera at Syria Mosque 1955-56
The Masked BallNov. 3 and 5 ?Herva Nelli
Othello
Carmen
Dec. 1 and 3 ’-Ramon Vinay 
Feb. 9 and 11 «Mildred Miller
Don Pasquale 
Madame Butterfly
March 8 and 10 
•Patrice Munsel
April 5 and 7 
"Licia Albanese
* METROPOLITAN OPERA STARS Tickets Will Be Sold in Administration Hall on October 6 
SEASON SUBSCRIPTIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 1510 Farmer Bank Building GR 1-2974—CO 1-5294
Oops! Our Fault
To those of you who may have 
read the column on Phi Gamma 
Pi Sorority last week and are 
wondering how Emil Muhic could 
be eligible for an organization of 
this type, you may now rest your 
minds at ease. It seems that 
the letter “y” was omitted from 
the young lady’s name. * Sorry 
Emil, er Emily, it won’t happen 
again.
PIFCSO Plans 
Picnic On Sunday 
October Ninth
Now that most of us have final­
ly settled down to the grind of 
another semester of school, the 
schedules of activities are both 
plentiful and various.
To start the social season on its 
way, PIFCSO (Pittsburgh Inter­
collegiate -Federation of Catholic 
Student Organizations) has plan­
ned a picnic for Sunday, October 
9, at Parish Hills in North Park 
with activities to begin at 2:00 
p.m. Admission for this affair will 
be $.35 per person to cover the 
cost of potato salad, hot dogs, and
Newman Club
Sunday, October 9, 8:00 p.m. 
Speaker: Fr. Berkmyer. 
Dancing and refreshments 
following.
soft drinks.
On October 14, PIFCSO, will 
sponsor a Mixer Dance at Mount 
Mercy College, which promises to 
be one of THE social affairs of the 
year, and a large turnout of stu­
dents from Tech, Pitt, Duquesne, 
P.C.W., and the host school is an­
ticipated.
Notices of these two events are 
being mailed to day and evening 
school Newman Club members of 
Tech and Pitt and to Federation 
members of Duquesne and Mt. 
Mercy.
W ives Club
John Mauro of the Pitts­
burgh Chamber of Commerce 
will introduce the wives of 
Tech day and evening school 
students to Pittsburgh in a 
lecture at the first meeting of 
the Tech Wives Club, Monday, 
October 10, at 8:00 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Union.
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-0242 or AL 1-320«
r~
A Campus-to-Career Case History
"I represent 30,000 people”
That’s the population of the Mason 
City, Iowa, area where Jack MacAllister 
(Iowa U., ’50) is Manager for North­
western Bell Telephone Company. How 
would you like this kind of job?
46 As Telephone Manager I represent 
Mason City to my company, and vice- 
versa. Among my customers are bank­
ers, farmers, housewives, merchants ... 
each with different questions and prob­
lems about telephone service. Through 
public information and good business
office service, my people and I do our 
best to furnish the answers.
66 My assignment calls for varied activi­
ties—sales, public relations, office super­
vision. One minute I’m describing a 
new construction program to a group of 
businessmen . . . the next explaining a 
new service to a rural customer.
66 It’s a job with lots of variety and re­
sponsibility, and I enjoy every day of it. 
My supervisor is 75 miles away,” says 
Jack, <6and that puts me pretty much on 
my own—which is the way I like it."*
Jack MacAllister graduated with a B.S. in Com­
merce and started with Northwestern Bell about 
five years ago. As Telephone Manager at the age 
of 28, he is typical of the many young men who are 
building careers in telephone work. Similar op­
portunities exist today with other Bell telephone 
companies . . . also with Bell Telephone Labora­
tories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. 
Your Placement Officer has all the details.
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
*P. S. Since this case history was prepared, Jack has been promoted. 
Now a manager at Des Moines, Iowa, he has increased res\yonsibihties.
-Ä1I
t-___

---------------------------------------------------

Enjoy a Cool Mildness 
never possible before!
r PUT A ^
SMILE IN YOUR 
. SMOKING! ,
tThurdy,
T. A P F TjE
UGGITI 4 MYTHS TOBACCO CO.
Faculty—
fContinued from page 1] 
instructor of drama. Mr. Buch- 
nell was formerly head of the 
theatre department at the Wim­
bledon School of Art, and artistic 
director of the London Artists 
Theatre Production.
Other appointments include five 
new associate professors, 22 as­
sistant professors and nine in­
structors.
In the Graduate School of In­
dustrial Administration, John 
Royston Coleman was named as­
sociate professor of economics and 
Frederick Emery Balderston has 
become an associate professor of 
industrial administration. Dr. 
Coleman, one of the country’s top 
labor management authorities, 
was previously on the faculty of 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology and hols his Ph.D. degree 
from the University of Chicago. 
Dr. Balderston, an authority on 
marketing, comes to Carnegie 
from the University of California, 
and holds a doctorate from Prince­
ton.
Three associate professors were 
named in the expanding College 
of Fine Arts. Richard Bancroft 
Beaman and Douglas H. Wilson 
were appointed associate profes­
sors of painting aind design and 
Clark Winters was named associate 
professor of sculpture. Mr. Bea­
man, who holds degrees from 
Harvard and Columbia Univers­
ity was formerly head of the art 
department at the University of 
Redlands. Mr. Wilson, a gradu­
ate of the Chicago Art Institute 
was formerly associate profes­
sor of painting and design at 
Syracuse University. Mr. Winters, 
who comes to Carnegie from the 
University of California, where 
he was also associate professor 
x>f sculpture, holds a master of 
fine arts degree from Indiana 
University.
Council
[Continued from page I] 
other business of Council could be 
resolved.
Unanimously passed was a reso­
lution prohibiting the use of perm­
anent decorations by organizations 
with debts outstanding for dam­
age of the decorations.
Financial Freedom 
Council also moved toward 
greater student independence in 
depositing money in the cashier’s 
office for the various organiza­
tions. Formerly the money had to 
be carried to a secretary in an­
other office, who would then 
count it and seal it into an envel­
ope with her pink little tongue, 
after which the student, apparent­
ly considered too incompetent to 
count, could carry the sealed en­
velope to the cashier. In the fu­
ture there will be a box on the 
table containing envelopes and
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS!
KEEP ALERT FOR A 
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that “drowsy feel­
ing” cramp your style in class 
... or when you’re "hitting 
the books”. Take a NoDoz 
Awakener! In a few minutes, 
you’ll be your normal best... 
Wide awake . . . alert! Your 
doctor will tell you—NoDo? 
Awakeners are safe as coffee. 
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
“Phi-Beta” pack 
35 tablets in handy tin 
69<
those desiring to deposit money 
with the cashier can pick up the 
envelope on their way to the cash­
ier’s office and count the money 
themselves.
Last of the items on Council’s 
agenda last Wednesday was the 
establishing of a committee to 
check the fraternity houses on 
nights of all-school functions.
In his report on the President’s 
confex-ence of the National Stu­
dents Association held at the 
University of Minnesota last sum­
mer, President Pasierb urged 
Council to join NSA. Such a liai­
son .he argued, would do much to 
strengthen student government at 
Tech and help it toward a more 
effective coordination and regula­
tion of campus activities. Pasierb 
asked that the members of Coun­
cil postpone their decision in order 
to give the fullest consideration to 
this move. Council will take up 
the issue at a later meeting.
Dunkle-
[Continued from page 1] 
be hostess at many events through­
out the coming year. Her duties 
have included appearing on a cere­
bral palsy telethon, singing at the 
Cafe Roy ale, a Washington night 
club, and at the Phyllis Bell school 
graduation, as well as acting as 
hostess at a candy store opening. 
In addition to holding the Miss 
Washington title, Judy was se­
lected as Miss Home Builder by 
a Washington real estate agency 
and appeared at several housing 
developing openings. In the spring 
Judy will act as official hostess at 
the Cherry Blossom Festival.
Judy, who entered the contest 
at the encouragement of her father 
and Judy Launt, another Tech 
dramat, is undecided about her fu­
ture, but may deside to undertake 
a career in the field of musical 
comedy.
The CIT libraries contain more 
than 12.000 volumes and receive
more than 600 periodicals an­
nually.
Attention!!—STUDENTS
FOR THE GIRL IN YOUR LIFE AN AIRLINE 
RESERVATION FOR HOMECOMING WEEKEND IS NEEDED
Don't Delay—Make It Today!
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
5800 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 17. Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300 
Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery
CUT OUT and USE
STUDENT DISCOUNT COUPON
Pittsburgh’s Fine Arts Theatre
JhëâtiëWELCOMES
YOU BACK TO SCHOOLMB
when presented at the box-office this coupon will entitle 
bearer to Special Student Price of 10?
WINNER OF 3 INTERNATIONAL PRIZES!GREEN MAGIC
in STUNNING COLOR
MOW the GUILD
Murray and Beacon 
Squirrel Hill 
JA. 1-0700
Feature Times Daily—6:28 - 8:28 - 10:28 
Sat. and Sun. 2:28 - 4:28 - 6:28 - 8:28 - 70:28Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling: Cov Pittsbqrgh 10, Pa.
CUT OUT and USE
Smoke
Tomorrow's
better cigarette* 
Today-
*Chesterfield
BEST FOR YOU !
t Ucm & Mvt* To»acco Co
Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 4, 1955
