MSH S jumos PJtOK ...
MSHj umHosP J
DATE HASXAN HOTEL SGHEHLEY
AM» COSTUMI BALL 
FBIDAT, 7XBSUABT ith 
BAS OBEGORY AKtS FOYSK
VOL. XXI NO. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1927
JUNIORS READY 
FOR 1927 PROM 
FRIDAY NIGHT
Thirty-Eight ^Veil-Known 
Guests on List of Popular 
Patrons and Chaperones
DAVEHARMAN PLAYS
Attractive Snpper Menu Work­
ed Ont By Scheniey Ohefs. 
Novel .Favors Here.
lots« /acuity- and . fra* of the University ¦ ot PUtsburghwill give areceptlon for members !of the Cosmopolitan Club lo January-28. Ttila ts« a na- organlzation, made op of college and aaljrerelty ¦ graduates- *nd stoi’ : '
Pitt
proBlmately flftymemborawith.'presentation which ie tit* uot more than.two^ fifths. Their meetings, with Rjch­art Tallimitt: of Boss Hall, presid- 
>g, are of a somewhat eodal
irtainment; as well as lecture id talks by members aod men of Pittsburgh. These meetings areheld bl-w©©tìy la Mai
; All /s In readiness for tbe 1927 
' Men’s Junior From to be held this 
Friday evening; January28,-et the’ 
-Hotel Subenicy. Nothing has been 
left Uncompleted by the general 
committee and all-ofi ttie'sub-com- 
mlltees have reported- their work:
. eaUalectorUy ended. Oentral Chair­
man Alvin Brown hae. very ably 
directed t^.® labors of bis many as­sistants and ; co-workers and ' tbe• Prom Is T^dy. All that can be done tó 'aseare the success of the annual' formal ball of • the third year men-lias been attended to, and all that remains -la the full en­joyment of the accomplishments of their committees by-t^e^émbers
- oí thij clas^. of ^'Báí^olr gTLTOta:
Tho&e 'wto have been ..honored- by.being ch'ceenaSs-patrons :and patronesses-, tor the Men's- Prom 
. are: President Thomas S. Baker;Dean; and Mrs.. Arthur. W. .Tarbell,- Dean. .Mary j Watson/Green, .Direc­tor Mary B. Breed,..IMrector and Hr<v Wllltanv E. Mott, Dlrttlor 
and Mrs. Arthur'S. Jewett, Direc­tor and Mre. Roscoe M.-Ihrlg, Pro­fessor Giendlnning Keetole, Direc­tor and Mra Clifford ;B.V.ConneJly;" Hr.: aud, Mrs.'AJan Bright; Mr anil Mrs. Frank J. Lanaha'n, Judge.and Mrs. Walter P.. Steffen/ '
the chaperones to be present áre: Mr. and Mre. Robert B.Lelghcm, Mr. and Mra, ;J. C. More- heari/'Mr. and Mre. - Clarence Over­
end. Mr. and Mrs. Robert N, Wad­dell. Mr--..aud .Mrs. Lawrence H. Mill«*,. Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Klrk- ' Patrick, Mr. and Mrs. .William R. Work,' Mr. P. Cnrtis Swanson, Dr. William L.-Marks and Mr. ond 
.Mrs; C- C. Leeds., ¦ .¦.^Por.:®ufltev.>U^.flneflt><irehe^tTa available had been obtained for the i'rbftL-1 'All Pittsburghhas v‘i>een 
talking -for-weekaof the group ot . 'velve men tbotare to.play, at the
• • ^en.l^^ Jr^láy ;¦nighty and .. .tlie' committee le very well satisfied1 With' thelrVgood' fortune in being Writ- Pave ..Harman» TSresteT'^OrcheaLra for 'the Junior 
Forrual. Theee popular pavers are unparralled In the, amount of fnvoii'-'they have -won in col* 
legiate circles throughout the ' United States, as well as haring e&rnett ap enviable reputation In metropolitan; stage work.
: The. supper menu that has been prepared'byY thfj’stewaxd pf tho Hotel Scheniey In conjunction with the class committee Is one of the moat attractive ever effered at an evening function. Hn this city. All the plans for !the repast have keen with the co-operation
PLANSFORANNUAL 
IND. SMOKER NOW 
NEARLY COMPLETE
Freshmen Invited to Attend 
Popularity Co n t e s t s, 
Stunts Featured
keeping 'with the efforts al­ready taken, by thecononiltlee; to make the IndustriesSmoker, Feb^ r^^,.the..biggOBt;nlcotlne-fest• lotagediat - Cttruegie for fifty i,.a facolty-.popularity contest has been added to the evening's res. Piles’ will be awarded 
o handsomest,, laziest, "wind; 
and most''b^shfui' ot the in-- ore In industries.- These prizes, are supposedly suggestive if the tyuailtles ot tbe winners, - -- 
An .In formerf.yeare, nominations ind tho election of the senior who, 
la most representative. of the.^Col- 'This custom'bas'been '!
;ge of Industries will bo held': This custom' - has. been * observed* during tbe last tire«' yeaii^'tlie' lemoof the winner -beinif Inscribed ini a special'cup kept Industries 
nd, o, pose .In tlie Thistle' ’devoted 
olely to-tliis featurt- '! 'rAs announced 'last week, "the ;an* lual reunion of.—tie'. ' Industrie^ lumnl will occur on the evening of the smoker. Cards'of invitation '. been 'sent-out to: all’ the inl of the last ten years:^ The' . onse to tbet>e' cards -loB'ures itheiireBeti^e -.af..abou£>&f hundred
! the I¡ of ti Schenle:
Ins.
i that sinoThe committtee in < curing the favors re poi receiving the momentdes from the 
manufriciur-eiy'theyf oven • exceed the early claims made for them.
they ore being secreted until Fri­day, night, and fewer, still hav< been permitted to view tbe cholct gifts. Ouly those In attendance it the' prom will be privileged to fully enjoy the novelties, .-as they- are distinctly new.
Whitehead Chib to Hold 
Meeting Tuesday, Feb. 1
The Whitehead Club will meet 
on Tuesday, February 1, at 6:00 
p, m. at tlie Church of the 'Ascea- 
Uon.' ' Supper will be served at 
this, cline. During the ^iee^ng, a 
report of the Milwaukee. Confer­
ence will be mad?. There will bfe 
no speaker but Informal, dl 
slon groups will take place ai 
the members.’ ;Purther plans :fpr 
Jack Harts meei lug on Febi 13 will be discussed and coii will 1inted.<Ja*k Hart, student pastor, e ¦ University oif ^Pennsylvania, Jq a * well-known speaker In student des. For & number of years,lie 'has b^en one of .the.-.leaders at the Y. 
'M.‘C A'.'Conlorence al Sliver BaV and attended yarious'otQd^t -con- ference» throughout ihls' ^rt. of- the countn*. Last summer,, he .waa one of, the leaders dt the Joiht;Y. M. C. A. .and Y. W. C. A. Confer*
Jack Hart,- who .16 a member- of 
t^e Kappa. Sigma Fraternity, the ' Friar'ff. Senior Society, and ’-'the Whltehcad Ciirti, the peitAi Sl^mt 
' lUto Debating, la- a graduate of'ihe, TTnh'erBity:of: Eonns^lranta-of'.the 
ci'ass' of• Mr. IDut is very popular o: .Pennsylvania-Campus, and .two ypars ago/ when tbe Unlvereity:. of- Pennsylvania.. fooLball - team went 
, tc* tba.Paclfl« Cc^at; to ^>Uy a pofe^ ' season' oame.J'Jack Hart wap s*;
iected a.s':.«^iapbin: te; actomi'any
I the Héli Hou». Moi
Special: Economics 
Course Offered At M.M.
Margaret Morrleon Carnegie Col­lege offers during the late winter larly. spring ot the. year 1927,
) have sufficient lels- 
luterested ln lntelli- ent of the problems
Tbe onJy requiremen slon into these courses 
Applicant be eighteen s
Carnegie Tech;
a week, either in or in the afternoon; t be'regulated to ëül
REGISTRATION 
TÜES.ANDWED 
OF NEXT WEEK
Former Head Household Ec. Dept. 
Makés Interesting Food Survey
Day Students Requested to 
Report Morning Feb. 1 For 
Arrangement of Schedulesfield c Indiana s
INSTITUTE FEE $100
Expect Enrollment of Ninety 
New Students, Increase 
Over Last Tear.
Registration for the mid-term will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday. February 1 and 2, 9:u0 s. m. to 11:30 o.'m. and 1:00 p.' ni. to, 4:00 p. m. In Laogley Lab-
The following; Information will 
glvo the location, of th© vaxioua registering offices:
All day students should réport as Indicated bolow, early in the 
morning of February 1 for the ar­rangement of the second semester schedule.. College of Engineering and' In- duairlotiv Freshmen, :—Office of tbe dean, of freshmen. Others— Office of head of deportnientl College, of Flbe Arte^Qfflco ,of head-Of deparUnent -MacgiretiMior- rieon Carnegfe Coîlege: 'Freaihman, 
room 101. Others—Office of-head- of department After the schedules. ha^e been prepared . In' quadruplicate, they must be taken to .the ottlce of the director for approval;. Students who have been In at­tendance during the first semebtier 
are-required to.make the second' payment of' the' Institute feo (530.00, toitlon.'snd v |ÇsW.,<Htndént‘ actlvitlps fee). Students expect­
ing to'sraduate In' ’1927 are re*' tjnlrod to pay- thé' diploma' fee of SB.00.: (• Graduate students pay q diploma fee ot Ç10.00).Before second semester classes bégU:, jabpratory deposits .muBt be " (Continued oh Page Four.)
Miss Laura A. Cauble,' who wbs . ou3 tline head ot thé depejt- ent of bousehold.arts at Carnegie, Mb, is now directorot.tbe Sthool political Education in NeW 
York, in' a recent'artlde in the >rk Evening: Post Mtes Cauble is spoken of as "one of thé ’orld’s recopnizert experts In tbe conomics.^ Bom {In 
lugbt. up on a farm ¦ae ' plentiful. Miss Caubl-} early learned to dlstin-' gulsh' between food values, in the attended
Columbia * University, where s^ie specialized In nutrition and^pub^c
instructor In tha Household Economic depurt- rent of Marc&ret MoiTlson. J.;. “There were girls .from evéry ;alk ot life in thé ¿lasses therei': Miss Caublë Is quoted as saying. •And in dealing with them >vl let .......................
INTER-FRATERNITY 
FORMAL TO COST 
ONLY 5 DOLLARS
Price Originally Announced 
To Include Admission * 
Banquet, Favors
O.NAYLOR BOOKED
Thistle Sale in 
Registration Line
Final^Two'Dayr Campaign 
Offers Opportunity For 
LateSubscribere,
SALE -TO CLOSESOOH.
Students should take advantage of the next. Thistle drive during Registration Week tu onier their ThlRtles. During the two-day drive which Is to be made in an attempt 
to' complete the canvassing for subscriptions to the Thistle, a group of salesmen will be station­ed In tbo lobby, of Laugley ^ab for
Contrary to a popular mfsebn- tsptlon.. entirely unfounded £8; far- is ihe Inler-Fiaiteinilty . Formal ommlttee is .concerned, there )will ie no additional levy: for, the ban- uot, whlch.ls to be a feature ofihls iflfalr tble year. , Tickets ;are-.:flve dollars, which Includes the odsils- :o tlie dan^e; the banquet' and
ver Naylor and.hJs -Aroadlan’p 
have been selected to play for tbe which .will be ' held>;vat' Scbouley Hotel ballroom. on . S'rl- day evening, February lfl. Stab­le preparations have; been m/id'e ihe decorations and the' favors, 
promise to be no lees novel:, -i - This^lhtir-rralerDity^ForDii^Vifc 
n ,annual affair to which irnliy men, pledges, and "Wan- 
dering Qroeks’V. are, eligible , to.
Tickets, which are now on sale, ay’be., secured- at-^any-fraternity 
iuae or front the commltree. Bob Shrove, George Petticord,. Earl Bobel and SUnley Abbot are in: charge of this affair.
Thers
lubscribi
no question but tbat t on the campus should
ermitted to do so. In food da: 
le feo includes all supplies; ¦caving, articles made by thf* ent may be' ictalaed :t paid fo se cost ot the matBriel«i; In ! 
ig and milliuery, students are
c of January. 31.
(julred with the order, and the re­maining $2.00 ie due upon the de­livery of the'book!A (treat deal of the material for the ThlsUe Is now In. the hands of. thfr printers'’- and' 'the -remainder will be prepared as soon as pcasi- ble in order that ihe work . may continue without interruption.. During the past week the last ot the photography was finished and it is' now being prepared by the engravers fbr the publishers. , All uiiaterial for the. spedaY sections 'is alsoiompletolyarrangid.is theof CaiActiviegle Stuc inch.lould; tb all student
iff of the Thistle will be. held >nday. January 31, at 1:30 in i puhlIcatiorL'6 office. Air F
i business staff, should be
Plebes Banquet At Saunders Inn 
Quite Unmolested By Sophomores
Yea,'. ihe frcshmaii hava had. their . banquet ; Climaxing .several dn^SL .of -subdued - .whispering, and
ry 19,: -1B7.
fresbThen“'Saunders' Inn^rCeaj ‘Aspinwall,. ' fbr their"' \itradit lonal • plebe -banquet The .clasa of ’30, have, shown' tiicmselvea to be with;' out feoT. wasUng a whole evening with'.''exams lurkiug in'the. offing.-
waaL'.Fahenstpckr:^ of.
the. engineering sophcmores. :. He was enticed -into.coming' by the aid' of 'A ;vwdman's . Totems aiVC.' several 
husky ' plebes, end seemed en-; Joy (-the'' •'evenWg--'- Immenaeiy, - el:i thoi^h’-'he 'waa kepC thore agalnet' hir.w'iii,Beingspeech -' , lie • :compllmeated: -.the; plebfs-,on:thelrrecord;attendance; 
the way;lii which it was put.acfossi and tho abflincfi of bananas Srom the: meuu./ In fait be was a little; 
too enlhuBiastlc considering; that; 
ti«' had: been' brtrughtstb the. ba^quet ln , handcJaffe.. Mrl . Lawier,
ter of the evening. Mr. L. gave an enthu6laatic talk oi way .the banquet,was condi and the excellent eutertalnipont fuitnlshed., ..Presidents of . both th< Arts and Engineering industries 
freehmen. were called upon speeches. A. three-couree banquet wai served-and-all present satisfied. Several of . Ihe moi genlous plebes-wcre able by Vif hand-, perforaiaihree ,ty - satisfy' their enormous.appetites. The en- .t«rtainment for the evening was. 
fiirnirthed by a duncer, who by >6r .erotic ^moTpmenta,: ¡vas .^able-: to make all "the onlooking plcbes for- .'get about; ihe coming malh exams.‘.Evory plebe present was-expect­ing: a. fight,. in' tact several 'had drawn lots to see who 'would- hit 
a'.certalu', sophomore'. However they were doomed .to d(6ai>Polnt- ment, some demanded .thelr money. back while others relieyed thelr (OonUnoedob'Pafe.Four.)
a and became a fellow in 
>*. . When women were; were given the right to » wua in. tbe .fofegroand-'of rement'. aod was' given lhe post ÓC First Deputy Commissioner Public Markets. Several years br she-conducted a three years’ health educational program' with regard’ to the nutrition of New York's millions of scuool children in co-operation with, the Depart­ments of Health and Education.Mist» Crtullf is thoroughly ac- 
quelute-1 with the health nítúatlon in New York in relationNto pn>per. 
rood. Site recently made a food survey of New York, concentra ling her study to an area of twonty blocks square, for the bureau of food supply of tbe Association for Improving tbe' Condition of the Poor.
• Mtrevealedsome unusual thinqs." she saye. “among them tlie. fact that there Is In some cases as much Ignorance in the .shops’ as in the homes with regard to the proper food. But education is tak­ing care of. that"
However, Miss Caublo belleveB that ''education'should not-be con- lined merely to shopkeepers and housewives.” She relates-the story of a flve-yeaiyold child who was accustomed to‘shop for the family Tbe child’
the drudgery ¦long.enough attend to this shopping, entrusted it té the child. Therein lies'tbo hope of the-Cuture generntlon. If children are. pormltted by tired and harassed mothers to do the family shopping, the thing to do is to eriucate Uie children in the pub­lic schools,-teach.them the proper food valúes and .the hygienic and nutritive problems of whole fami­lies will disappear. V
On the whole Miss Cauble. be: Uevee:;Néw' York has good foods. 
Refrigeration, -Improvements • • in transportation, etc., have done much to. raise the standard of food stuffs available on. the’market:- ' "It Is simply , a question ot edu­cation,1” Mise. Cauble eayB. “both 
(Continued on rase Four.)
BUT TEN DAYS 
REMAIN UNTIL 
RUSSIAN BALL
Preparations Are Nearly 
Completed as Time For An-, 
nual AriS Festival Nears
D. GREGORY TO PLAY
Show, Sapper, Decorations and 
Designs, Costumes—All 
plans Complete.
> Revel of the Russians! At .bo eventful night Is drawing Costumes are designed.
been obtained; the mu6lc has been ritten; ¿he designs ond docom- >ns have been coiupleled,' abd instroctlon is' under way. ' Tbe show is laklag shape and the sup- haa beea plsnned! Tho night of <\U' tho nights for Art Students ir at bond.
EXECUTIVES TO DINE
AT CARNEGIE INN !' ™
Pi Delta Epsilon Call 
Extended to Six Men
abandoned of all AtIs balls. If the general interest being any indication. It seems Incredibie. but. Arts., ball thoughts pre-empted' even those 6f ex* 
umlnntlons.' :A .most<brllllaiit and fascinating display of'colors- >IU bo brougQit into use through the or tbe dominant 'Russian mo­tif. Costumes will range from me- mouasollnedelaine to' mod- mlfesUttions ot - mutihqu9 tea. Which (s saying quite But truly, those who have aevif&l Arte* itaUe say'ibat > will be the moBt colorful and .live.of all the. balls. 'glimpse of the; designs to be used leads one to suspect that 
beautiful .and captivating color known is blended to form the tala for the intricate Russian
Th« orchestra this.year will be tuatfii , ln ;lho same place that aa' uaed several years' ago. It wlli bo on a platfbrm built over: the iteps at the junction at the foyer ind the mala' hall. This location has been proved iby trlol' io be the 
ruod on Pago’.Two)''
Will Bring'Noted Author, 
v-Journalîaijor-'Gntic-to^ 
Campus in Spnng
FIRST CALL OI^ * YEAR
To Plan Changes In Night 
School and Inspeot 
the Campus.
Executive representatives of 
Pittsburgh firms having large mbers of their employes en­rolled as night students at Car- .eglt- this year have been Invited by President Baker to attend a din­ier meeting and Inspection of the chool -tomorrow night.
¦nlty, PI' Della' Ep'eilon, issued semi-annual coll to - six men, rep­
resenting the Tartan, Thistle, Pujv pet, and Trl-Publicatlon Socicty, on last-Wednesday, January lik
’ollowlng .men were clect- Ed Ross, advertising manager f the Puppet find, a member of he Phi Kappa fraternity; Ben
Following dlnm
theetituLibn willus of making the Carnegie night courses more serviceable to loth-eniployers and employes. Full »pporfinlty is to. be given to. the imployera, to suggest plans likely o oxteud the educational service if 'Utg evening daese6.Among firms invited to send rep- eseu^tives are. the Aluminum Company of Amerl(n; American 
Bridge Company, American Sheet Tlo Plati- Company, Baltimore
GIRLS GLEE CLUB GIVES 
C0KCERT AT HOSPITAL
The girls met at the Collego or Fine Arts where cars sent by the Hospital called for them. .In spite 
of Lhe cold, the triVwos very en­joyable. .' -The program contained two .solos, oiie by Luclle Haugh and the . other - toy .Eyaline Hold. To makg ' It' more enjoyable' sev-mptulumbeiFol.mar played some - Jazz - and Mary -Farbaugh gave readings which the ;men> en­joyed fully as .much as the. songs; Later in :tbe evening Mary- again came to the tore and gave an ex­hibition of., .the , Charleston which was applauded to the .last -echo.
.The music: was transmitted from the: stage, to..lhe -wards .-for.,- the 
beuefit: of; thevimen who";were un* able; to come to- the auditorium. When ;told to,. move up .cloaer to the- "mike'* Al Johnson,-;.: (he di­rector, went too far. and fell over the' foot' lights'.- ’midst great ap­plause. The program - was closed by singing “Dear- Old Tech'* and the Alma Mater.-..'After., (the. program, the. girls 
' (Continued on Three.)
rculatioie Tartan; Milt’. Cohen, Junl litor of the Tarlan. Circulation 
anager of the Thlstik, and a lemhcr ot Beta Sigma Rho; Wll am Kunkel, advertising' manager ot tbe Thistle and a member of Delta Upallon; WlUiara Scbelck, hAnge editor ot tha Puppet and member of Alpha Sigma Phi; and Mark Seibert, business m.%na- er of The Tri-Publication Society nd a member of Sigma Phi Epi
PI DcKa Epsilon makes two cil
the iCampus Week.
There are nearly 40 chapter* the , Pi Delia Epeilon- in. varj colleges throughout the' coud There were t>5 delegates prei a conyontion held in Berkeley m September 8 to 11. The Call (Continued on Page Two)
TARTAN OFFERS A FINAL 
OPPORTUNITY FOR PLEBES
of the The
»r call for reporters, especially bes. With exams well out < way, ambitious süwspapc i and .women have an ex'cellei oHunity , to start their newi with thé begindin
: of. tcidedly. interesting as those who lmye already come out for the Tar­tan will testify. Scouting about ttie campus for news has its at­tractive features, for. anyone with 
curiosity. In hls.-makeup.^ are, undoubtedly-quite a few piebes at Carnegie'who would find 
work mucb-'tb their liking,' and who have not yet- put in ai pearance at the. Tartau <-And this' Is their, opportunity.- , A; number, of . reporters 
fom'i oMt -since . the . beginning of <he year, b'ut not all of thetn hi kept, up tho worlt as faithfully vrould be Jdiosired,. and-.tbe Tartan still- needo, mcn^and. wc whom the .staff of .‘the years will -tie-, chosen. - '\/For:,those who .make the slaff,. 
the, advantages; and opportnnitlea are. qulte .a'ttractive. .Then 
wnVs the .chance, of-maldng the! honorarioB, ,by-. virtue of good wsork on the. pubilcaMoB.V And for the;. higher ./sUlt v posltlt mnneration in the form-of salaries Is a veiy .interesting feature.
SELECT JUDGESF0R 
INTER-COLLEGIATE 
GLÍEE CLUB CONTEST
Will Èarhart is Chairman 
of Committe Judging 
Competition
Febri¦ 4 win i
WOMEN'S PROM BRIDGE 
DOTÉ 1SFT FOR PEfit 5
Nbvôl Priees 'Offered Playere— 
Tlokets On Bale Now.
. Februaiy 6, the Women’s 
-Junior Prom commlUtee \vill hold bridge tn the Recreation Hall of e Margaret Morrison College. The bridge will- be held to help >t c tbe Prom expenses. The mon-fl Junior Prom of this year •xpected to be one of the most
Christine Groves, chairman b£ \yays und means committee, is charge of the Prom bridge. Miss >ves Is planning- to make the bridge an-event that no one will to miss. The Junior women have invited the ’Comogie men to the bridge, hoping that they will id and make the event the sue- it should be.e committee In charge of the 
affair ha>x chosen,a large number >f unu'súAl prizes. ' They will1 he ;iv«n to the most successful play ira. It is hoppd that there will bo 
i largo number of competitors/ Another feature of the. bridge v'lll oe tho sale of candy. Do you like candy? Your favorite sweet* IU t* oir.sale at the Proin, bridge rr.'Elèbmaiy"5.Tick*ita: fibr " Lhe bridge moy be 
archas^d from members of the ays-and means' committee at the price of 75 cents. A pleasant and ntertÁining afternoon le promised o the men and women of Cafnegle vho attend the Women's Junior *rom bridge In the Margaret Mor- inou Recreation Hall.Tlie pmilntinary fee for the *rour muBt be in by the begimilng >f the new semester. Tlckela for 
.bose attending the Júnior. Prom v^ll be on jOK. begluning. the first
MEETING OF PI DELTAEPSILON NEXT .SUNDAY . ’ MORNINGAT 10:SC
Ne^t Sunday morning at the Alpha Tau. Omega .house on Neville street, there will bo held meotbg ot PI Delta; Epsilon:' at 
n-thlrty.-o. m.Important business -matters ' are -1)9 discussed in conneclion with the Initiation of new pledges, and the several projects of the organi- zatlpn, booked, tor. the early spring.le imperative tljst.eucti'mem­
ber be at this msct'ng.
ODAuT oHmmEX
LAUNCHES NEW 
IDEA AT INST.
Two Hundred and Seventy- • 
Five Plumbers Attend 3rd 
Annual Plumbing Institute
INTEREST GROWING
Three, judges have been selected ir oKlclate in. the . inter-collegiate Gleb Club Contost In which .the Carnegie Glee Club has been en­tered. Thoy. are as follows;^.. 
Will K&rhart, 'chairman; iiurl McMitrtrie, and Earnest .Lunt This contest is to be held In the Carnegie Muelc Hall. Pittsburgh, i tbo.'evening of February' 18.
. Will .Earhart,' who.has; been ap; polbted' chairinan' ot the'jddgefl," Ifl tho hea'd of the music department til‘tile rPittsbuish schoels. Burt
is the director of the Men- delfHOhu oholr, Pittsburgh. Thoy ill known Ip the musical atmosphere, • and it c«n be clonrly that tho beBt Qleo Club .will takn the honors, as well acuoaru ip to New. York Olty. Tho r, as iyls-statod,'. .*111. be' 
o New York City, by the ln- tcrcollegiate -Muslcal Corporation compete ,la tho .Natlonal Con­
test _ ^
The Giee ;. ciubs : of . Carnegie TechV B'uckneli Coliego, Juniata, Penn- State College, and ' the TJnl- verslty ot pittabvrgh wlll compete In thiB ;.conteBl;.- '¦ The . Caraeele Glee Club which hue progressed 
Exceptionally-; well under the lead­ership of Harvey Gaul,’the music' 
leader : of .nttsbürgh» «ill V'un- donbtedly-'make an ^eicelleat show- Ing. Carnesle may well expect lts Glee Club to carry off the honors so'chbrlRhed by idl Glee Clubs.
. . VE-acti .Club : villi : be ^«presented; :6yp30"men -as w^ll-ae'thelr 'tcadtir; who will direct'them, in’ tlie'sing­
ing., of.thrcoiselecUons.- • v ; V Th> selections will be as fol­lows: One ofi tboir cboloe, the.VPri*e” song, and last, a Coll< 
(Continued on Pose Three.)
Dr. Baker and Mr. Payne 
To Attend Conference
Tb-i second International .Drama Conference, which is being held at Ynle University, New Haven,, be­ginning Saturday, February '11; wiii hold Its flTBt. session at, the 
Havkness Theater wllli Dr. Baker, nnd Mr. Payne representing Car­negie. Dr. Baker will address the eotifere'dce at thin time reviewing tbe wortc accomplished during U^e past yeav nnd-'also.;out1lne more of the plans frr''the future confer’ enco. • A Round; Table . dtscu9eton will be played, and Dr. Baker will preside at ono of these.• Mr'. Payns oC the Drama De nient will discuss-the relation tween the amateur theater:an dal or professional' theate ’America1. cOther speakers at the confei will be Dean Woek.of the-Ar partment, Ynle' University, and- 'Professor George .Baker, of York. ..•A.very- cnmmendnblc spirit iij being shown by tbe .Uulvereitles and Little Theater. Groups rrom an over, the courtly, wlio will be rep reacted at the conferonce. Thlc year’s event will promote the Ini portance of these annual confer ^nces on Drama, and servo furthei to bring together the various dls soblated groups; of college dra matisls and producers.
The program. In detail, winch' is being sent out by Professor Georgeker this week) will be nnnounc>d in the rt ISSIK
New Mask of Pavlowa, Premiere 
Danseuse, Presented to Institute
Another art treasure has been added to the already interesting collection of our neighbor, the ,Car­negie Institute. • The ; latest addi­tion. is, a m&sk In wax' of'-the- Hus­sion., dancer, .Anna’ Pavlowá, by Malvina Hoffman. -The mask .was presented by Mra.,' William Reed Thompson,of Pittsburgh: ,'Mu making! this gift to the In­stitute,” said . 'Mr.-.'.bsintrGaudens. "Mrs.. Thompson has in .mind call­ing' attention,..especially- of - the young people^tb, the splendid work that is. belng done, in Ameiican sculpturexby . such’ ^bmen ;as.'.Mal­vina1 Hoff nun,VAnn - YAughan .,liy- iatt, Harrietr Frlat¿utíi, Mré, . Harry 
Payne, ^hltnéy, and. Besste Potter 
^yojxnob. ¦ •. Thó! mack which shows. Pavlowa in fancy., headdress,.was awarded honorable mention in 1925 at . tho Concord Art Association. Another- 
study!' in- sculpture of Pavlowa done, by Malvina Hoftman took a Grand! i9ikloa first prize.'Malvina . Hoffman studied paint­
ing with • John Alexander and; sculpture with Gutzon Bprglum in New York and Rodin -inhas received many Impönantwards. this i•for . heriulpture : including 
mention at the San Francis« position in 1916; the'/Shaw Memo- rial .Prize at sthe National Academy 9f Design in 1917; ... tie.. .Wii'
the; Barnett Prize at the Nations Academy In, 1921. .• She is represented,:1n the 'Pei m&nent ' CollecUoM'^pf.i the’ Metros, polltan' Museutn»: t^.^Xcademx :of.
will be .Timnent\c)chlbuibn ^Carnegie Institute. rIt l9- the ond. orlginal work of thJo soulpt« ' In Pitteburgh,- the other being thé tnirble buat of Henry. Clay Frick» 
which la on.the first floor, of.’the FVicfc •Building. ‘1
mmittoe For. Investigation 
To Determine Problems 
Needing Reform.
oW:
A. doflnlto plan to Institute a pro- ütü ot research In, plumbing, heat- . Ing and -vontliating was proposed by ; Proiessor <S3jnuoi E. Dibble .• Wednesday afieinoon before, the. B«aBloi)s. of, the tblrd. 
Lhree-dayrinBUtuto'fw 'tho:;' Pliinibliig,.Heating and Ventilntlné:’ : Induàtriea at Carnegie: InstUuto^oC 
Technology.
The proposal, which was hearS 
hy febout 27G master plumbers and itruttore.rwnunendedthe-'eB-. 
tabilehinent ot a researoh commit-'.of.national scope/ This com-' mltteo, Professor Dibble suggested Evould flrat determine from con- ractorsi . and ’ sanitary engineers what problems, nesded .lmmodiato 
Investigation/ À program; for -refj. search fonuoil from suchva prullm- , Innry survey would' probably con- ’Idely spread topi.'^ reqoir-- 
ing more thRn one' laboratory to conduct tbe work.Much of tho. research work,, tho-. 
I'arnegls profcEeor b6lieves;^çouIÆ be conducted ' in laboratories, alj-.'-' ready est(vbl|6hed( and top:.mora.' Ive results, he prbpbebd that ù ol - colleges should ,be jnvliéd :')’. »-opotato and'tov.tako paft/la;. the pro^ntm of IhveStigâiions; AC7 .1 ttle propoRal vJlil be .tnkeiL nenr future. , ’... •research . program startod’. . now. . would secure the Improve- ment.of the plumb|ng. Indusày.-for : future,1’ Professor Dibble •de- 
cl'iired- "It .would have the ten* dency. to rlpon ,our present .day )inb.ir)édgé; It . would ' explore -«II ; lenown avenues of ' the industryv' id,.would, develop now and per- ha'pn now unknown Information: ¦ 
An Industry .which does sst eoek*. tho oBslstanco of.the moet moderni scientific knowledge,- nnd npply lt^ ; 
gradually loses ground' In^ Its own: development;' ••TheTdnnual conference closed -1: :JliàÛBrjr EOr-è That *itr wkérret^ ‘,gucr< ooâsfui in every reBpcct .lB afflriMd: by.. Profeasorv-'- Dibble. ¦; fdtercatJni - tie'; lectures '.wàé.’ftt' à JwbltÀv'ïiààt: throughout the three days. '.Mat­
ters ot vital Interest to the Indos^ taken up; manyr’-of the1’ sessions were closed wltb-dlacus~ 
slons which being waged upon Uht.topics loft unflnlsbed. Tbeh model bathroom on -, the second'/ floor called forth, a great deal of-* ‘ Interest :from those ..ytfio saw tha- exhibits assembled , there.lhe-afternoon of Jathiary 20 wan made to the buroau.of MlnnS 'for tha. purpose of -inspect“ log ,the 'heating plant theré. Al
nthusiastlc that the- tlme of meeting ran far. buyond! tbat allotted on the program. - Thir­
ls a matter of interest, to everyone' In the; plumbing Industry-aa con­tractors everywhere '' are - finding* fault with the present endea an<L sro eager for their correction. •• | Two; hundred and • seventy-flve- 
people were on.regtetratlon at tble convention. This number Includes
dents, plumbing inspectors, andl health officials from various cities,, and contractors iroin Pennsylvania, and nearby'states.' Thlstptalahows . fin-increase over the .attendance of last -year.'^andyls indicative of : the growing; intereet of the trade In this annual instltule. -
Second Floor of Welcb 
Hall Under Quarantine
Aa a result of the' discovery or ' a case of scarlet fever the entire-1 second floor of Welch dormitory is under quarantine. At:: 4:00 Mon­day. It WA9 discovered that G' R- Kermodle, a 'freshnmn-! who has only beèn hei'e several w«>eke; Dad symptoms of,’scarlet - fever. He-, was Immedlaiely taken to the- munlcipal hospjtal where it wns> pronounced a mild case. ’ ’Within an hour of his removal there worn notices posted re­questing the inmates of the second, floor to'remain In the.lr: rooms, and for the men from tho othor halbr- not to visit them; So far there ha»- been admirable'; cooperation oh tha part of everyone ! concerned, - no difficulty being experienced in-, keeping the mon, In their rooms a» ¦\vaB..:;thé;,':case,'' In : prevtpus yeare- • The.: proppt .handling of the .caser, has gTCatly lessened .the ' danger oC spreading, and! if no1 ùew cases ap- . pear- tho quarantine wlll : probably- be jifted :in- S 'or: -.10 days. ,:Mean* while- the sixteen men affected: are . having .their-;'; .enforced' - .im-: priaoiuijicnt. .made1 ' lbs4' (rbsoiaa:. üuwu^»;'Uie'-: efforts1 of IMissHeln». 
.aod^Wn.V.;.Mli.ler.;'^-'&OT'Hey;:;>»;' tfought in and. méais served, twlc«1 à; daj£ ^Several of Üiô mén' ¿ay»: ,bwme;;brldge.^ar^ the- biggiei^-majority ' ère ' catohing in». in¦)their.' maih; vTlie ).ocated,ln oiie'. of,; the 
has. been' lnat'ruraental . yention ^ of - contagious 
this being tho. Arst. case tô. i

---------------------------------------------------

. Beth ndy .-' and : old »indents should note that they can get un> 
tnual fountain pen service by call Ins at th« brunch «tor« «< Singer Pen and Gift Shop No SMI Forbes street, Scnemey. .Apanment block, or the Main Store In Ins Arcade. • _
WheaTonFon tbe Badness World
When your school life la over and you faee the business world,' you will appreciate ?h* bank connections that i today. The e*per>-
CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our Refreshment 
Entertainment is most de­
sirable for Fraternity and 
f all other , Schdol Affairs,' 
experience will convince.
• Small .orders receive the 
same careful attention as- the more ' extravagant
y Tte . Margaret Morrison •> :• Alunae Association 'will', bold ? 
:• a benefit bridge for the en- •> dowmeut fund ot tho Cam©- -S? •> gie Institute ' ol Technology. v 
¿•.on Saturday afternoon, 2:30 ?* o'clock, February 12, In the ? *'¦ Hotel. Schenley Ball. Room.v The genoral chairman.. Els-* anorilUesroeyer,' .hns clios'eh ?* Grace MunhaU to eerve ae •{* 
*:?, chairman of patronesses withRuth Turtle Euente and Nora 4* •> .Henderson •ooi;tbe:commKlee.'.,5“1
* " Mildred Spencer, ae choir- * .y man of tables, - ¦will be aa-?
* aisled by' Marion McCombs •> •> Hsrrmsnn and Helen Reitz. •>* Mary Bechtel bne chosen *>
* Rachel Beatty and Grace* flersiiberger to serve on her •>
* committee, the candy. *'* The publicity Is In charge ?* oC Edna .Smith.' Those lo ? her committee . ore Lorna* Williams.' Marlon Keenoy,*and Harriet Morgan. ( *i*i- Irene Qatnn Hernact end ?* Mre. Hamdd will select the *
:• prized. ** The distribution of the ?* tickets will be In charge. of* Mrs. Charles Bowser, Fran- *> <?ea Wing Graham, and Helen *
* The committees Join in *
ashing you to help them moke * this bridge a success.
ALUMNI PAGE
tHE LADDERJ.D. BEATTY LAUDS 
ALUMNI IN REPORT
Miss Harriet Klamrotli, scenery 
,nd costume designer, ot New York,-recently entertained mem­bers of tbe Providence Plantation Club of Providence, R. I., with a, talk, .illustrated . .l»y‘ stereoptlcoo 
elldei on; ’the'' history' of Press' Mise . Klamroth Is a graduate ol the New Vcrk School of Applied 
Design ànd of the Drama Depart- ent ot the College of Fine Arts 
. Carnegie Tech.Beginning with the court of enry VIII, Miss Kiamroth traced the development of feshion to tbe 
beginning of the 18th century, whore, she stopped, because said,: after tbo.t fashion becomes ridiculous rather thau charming. Includedin lier Ldlk were descrip­tions of maauUne as'well ae inine styles, the Influence.of mis périodB of history on dress nnd may of the eccentricities of 
fashion.
Bureau of Recommenda­
tions Placed 402 
•. Grôda in l926 ’
PLAN MORE BUREAUS
-sport on tbectivl-
ate oi Carnegie Tech- While In 'IttKburgh, Mr. Willard, with Madge Kennedy, Sidney Blackmer 
members of - the cast, lined by the Drama-Dc- f.the ...College .of: Fine
Arts i
i this Campui authoi
rell-knowE 
tic tO- 1er.Journalist ture to .'the student body this spring. M. T. Hollin.sheud, presi­dent of'-the'locol .chapter,' is in 
communication -with several men whose names are familiar to the Carnegie. Student. Body and. tbe name ot the lecturer wilt be an­nounced in a eutisequent issue of 
the Tartan. .
Another project, to be spun* sored by .P. D. E. on this Cam]Is a conference ot High School I Editora and business managers ot Publications •, of the Tri-State dis­trict, Pennsylvania, New York, and 
Ohio. ThU conference -will take (itlaco sometime In the aprli
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WORSEN
• Men's, $6.00—Color: Grey.
Women’s, $6.50—Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green ana
...•red. 'AulhaBmier and Evaas
6100 PENN AVENUE
durlni [ la.
. IdenMiss Pautioe Potter, wh jr a Umn asslstnut to .!
'ayne and Hubert Osborn, teach rs of dramatic art'at Ciirnegli 'ech, was recently called to Nov York to phty an important bit of character work . In “The . Q Friend” at the Vanderbilt Tbeal replace Mi99 Condon, who f ly.had that part. Miss Potter 
sesses. n very fine speaking 
¦o, it la sold, having h< nonted on her splendid diction 
by the critics of the drama both In London and New York. Miss 
Potter- has. also made rocordB for the prominent manufacturers abroad, and for the Victor and .Vocation people in Now York, and has made quite-a'place for herself 
in this particular- field-. .
CLAN NEWS
Art’s Aliimnus Writes on 
Arts BaU. Eligibility Rule
If vQii’re *ail at sea’ about 
yoiir tobacco.
Maybe y ou've sailed the seven seas search­
ing for perfect pipe pleasure. . . Maybe 
you've tried oceans of tobacco without 
running into one you can anchor to . . . 
but don't giye up the ship. Plenty pipe- 
pilots were once in the same boat...
Just shoot an s. o. s. to G. R. C.. . for 
Granger Rough Cut is a life'Saver to pipes 
in distress. It’s rich and spicy—and mel­
lowed by the old “Wellman Secret'* it’s so 
' mild you can stoke-'up ¿md fire away at 
full sail!
Then jot this down in the old log: 
Grangers' rough cut flakes smoke as cool 
as a. zippy sea Sephyt... Man,' your old 
smokestack’ll puff wreath after breath 
of perfect pipe pleasure.
And don’t wait till your ship comes in 
to take bn a cargo of Granger. The pocket*' 
package is not high-priced.. . for packed 
in foil (instead of costly tins) this quality 
tobacco sells at just ten cents. Load up 
to-day.. . and boh voyage!
GRANGER
tHELA DER
- The half-pound vac-... uum ein u forty-five .. cffid. the foil-pouch pidagt, tealed u>. gUutne» u ten cent».
:io has been. lu my mh 
great Injustice, perpetrated in
in wlitrtrhe Arts Bali: It la, the ruUag.which requires an alum-, s’to belong to the 'Rlumnl aaeo- Hon before he or >&o "'l9' per­mitted to attend the lArts Ball. Now by what strain of logical 
thlnWug; Is the .Rlunmt -naBlcl^tloii ' cled .with tlie Arts T iow;nre their functions li d? ^Vhj- should not an Arts graduate be required-to belong to iho Klu Klux.Klan, the Repub)l in party, the Tumv.erein SVi^Iety,board of dire Philadelphia insurance being permitted
recent
ties of tbe Bureau of Kecommenda- 
tlon-j, John D. Beatty, head ot the 
Bureau, ¿ave a great ideal ot praise 
to the Alumni In,.tli«trr/Part..of 
roaklug the Buroau a success.Tbe Bureau placed 402 men and women in 1926 with salaries t> 
tailing nearly $730,000 yearly. Civil and ' mechanical engineering 
head the list of these placem nnd teaching follows closely bind. Mr. ' Beatty Jn his report 
pointed out that all the requests for men in metallurgical, and mechanical englneerli not be met. Very many or these 
tufUlcd every year.>manil iot gradual College of Industries continues, 402, 26 positions rte Managemont 
field, and 18 In Building Construc- Some of the automobile con* have already Indicated that -they ¦ are .wUling.to. employ- the actuates of the new Automotive
Thè alumni have cooperated to tho fullest extent \ylth.tbe Bureau In placing graduates, end'Jn -send* 
ing in. leads which have led to plac- ¦ing others •' in some' of the cities 
there is a . large enough group of alumni, steps. nre being :o’ establish branch employ- bureaus to aaylst the work of the Bureaii.The- bureau,- not only places graduates who ore out of work, but also assists those already em­ployed, in-finding better-positions.' .lf this * purpose, the Bureau la keeping the experience records 4,600 graduates, so that- when i request comes for a graduate ' perlonced In a certain line, he may be immediately placed.To further the Bureau’s wor r. Beatty has had printed 'sui mariea oC bis report, which ha' beon . Bent, to . plt.-.the.-ihdii^trinl. leaders of ttiè Pittsburgh dlstiii and many outside thin district, lllng their attention to ihe bu- au's work, and the .possibilities frndlng the right juain for'a 
rough t){e Bureau. By thus _ lalntt'ng employers \>-it'h. these 
cts. It is thought that i*'elcction of positions may be of­
fered graduates, and any who ar< lilt of employment may lmniedl itely .be placed.. 'Boatty.rvnuesta thal the alunui ontlaile in their assistance, ant aska that they report,f In_ addUjoi 
tlio.'iiainea of any Alumni whoa they know are out of employment that he may be able to asels 
them.
West Alexandrine avenue, on Jan- About 46,were present toe d inner-and ft number -came - In- afterwards for* the .pictures. .Quite a number ot men brought their wives. Those present:Clete L. Boyle, Ja:C. GT*ene, H. H. Biudtek, W. Ray Williams, R- M. Feleteln. Harry T. Ward, Charles (Buck) Jameu, Al- vah W. Bryant, Wayne W. Wilson, Louis L. Newman, Paul J. Swa- bflcjk, .i^arie.S. Hpdd9,.3.-EL .Kaia- 
bleb, W."HL Nesblt, 3. L. Potte- Walter' B. ¡iiickenbacher, J. L. Wilson, Lauren E. Hawkins, Har­old D. Macklin and Mre. Macklln, Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Thompson, 
Mr.'and Mrs. J. R. Reed. Mr. and Mrs; J. E. Waite.'
CLEVELAND
One. Hundred. Twelve Pic­
tures in Exhibition of
OPENED LAST WEEK
• 17,
ondertul meeting Janu University Cliib, about »resent and among them wen sixteen high school studenti Cleveland and Painesville.
Exhibit Paintings of 
Woman at Institute
The la^eet exhibition ot paint- 
iugu by a woman ,ever presented 
at the Carnegie. Institute opei 
on Momlay, January 17. with a re-' 
ceptlon. Ths-artl&t- who was sl 
henorori Is Johanna K. W. Hall­
man, of Pittsburgh. . .
There ore 112 pictures In tbe ex­
hibition, occupying iour ot the gal­
leries on the second door ot the Department of, Fine Arts. Elghty- oiie nre oil paintings and 31 watel 
colors.Niue portraits ol Pittsburghers
CHICAGO
Ian meeting held Jan- l Engineer's Club of :h a total attendunce 
vo. Fine meeting. » present w.ere: Mar-
M. Lundy, W. F. McCaugbey. Jr.t R. CÒrawirtr GÌ U- First, ¦yiçtor.JI,. Stromaulst.iRUW- Cook.
Eric Berglund, E. P. Couse, Jr.. B. C. Gross, C. H. -Wallaco, J. J. Har- Howard G. Wittmer, John F. on, Edwin C. Frazler.
ot
ticed in tne iWliy should not an ir spending four years
ent who. has attended night chool for four monttu ay,: at the already 'additional osl of 64 cents per passLet us suppose on alui___ ...ils ahunnus-viie. living In Younfes- 
own (God forbid) decide lie bull. Passes, nine lollars
costumeai modestly /enty-five dollars.•they are. beginning win not go. Then they iSoniera.Rpcli«
CHICAGO .
RAINACO 
TASFCME D WscEe 
n iohyAC-
Member Federal 
¦ Reserve System
"Tbe Oakland Bank” 
Capital - - --$300,000.00 
Surplus,- - - $1500,000.00 
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
too neat.-was'one of-tbe first w»m- 
in?3 given in the- new course for prospective brides which Is being 
offered this year at Boston Unlver-
Mayflower 7218 
MEN'S WEAR
FLOYD M. JACOBS
3606/2~FORBES STREET 
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa.
“Around the Corner from 
Forbes'Fleld"
The following .letter w cclvcd ot the Alumni office:v Oak Park, IlllDois,January 20, 1927. 
iss Ttuth Andrews,Carnegie Alumni Bureau.
Carnegie Institute or Technology ' Pittsburgh, Pa. peur Miss,.Andrew^:-.. . _ . .on Wednetufiy night, Janun.ry 19, the Chicago Clan held a very enjoyable dinner and meeting] at the Chicago KnglneerS’ Club, at which we had a very encouraging
r the; Mr.
SCHENLEY
'A program of splendid motion pictures supplemented by high das» -stage entertainment is -to be offered in the Scneniey Theater, Fori.™ stioet. Oakland district, throughout this week. - Geueral Manager Htrry Davis booked "S'pangl-is,” an amazing comedy .drama'of life behind the scenes of the circus for Monday and Tues­day January .24 and 25. Pat O'Mally and Marian Nixon are featured. Wednesday and Thurs­day, January 26 ail 27, will bring
r. and Mrs. 'Wein- borgur and Mr.-Clarence Overend, Wo -had 26 people for- dinner and a number of peoplo come in later for' the -meeting..The comments of Judge Stelfen on (he Past and Future Football 
situation.i were-; greatly ¦ - enloyed and the motion picture and talk by Mr. Overend conceriilug the school affairs. were very Interest­
ing' and brought back fond recol-
Yours very sincerely.H. B. KLEPPEL, 
Secretary Carnegie Clan ot Chicago.
Hughes, but she must be.m: witiln two days or else she loses the . six mlltlou dollars left t by her uncle. .^Selected con
t Tobacco Cotnphi
Pittsburgh hotel bill, and .then the straw that 
breaks the camel's back, they must reinstated for eight dol­lars to' an organization they have 
,ie.-tltat<:d to joiu because the a(l- 
i many , benefits'A*as clear In their., minds. - T.ben they must debate whether to mort* 
craee .the house and let the chil­dren go barefoot, for a season-and go to the ball, shooting the works, or :o say “Wot the Hell’' and stay home. It they then .dcclde to go, the ycurig husband must allow an* other ten bucks for liquor, since h^ could not have a good tlm«
ixcitlng .combination of mirth and suspenae, “The Mystery-Civ baaed upon.- the novel by Art ¡ted'liy
enlng with his suh-conecloUH nberly doing mental artth- And i hen loo. why not ' A >mes but once a« . year. Is supposediopleand
On Friday urday, January 28 and 29, the pic­ture attraction will be "The Flam- tne Forest,” In which Renee Adoree and Antonio Moreno have ¦the leading roles. On the stage throughout , the week are “The Carolina Nlght.hawke,'’ a •' clever po'l-ular orchestra of'.12 men. The Joyous mystery comedy. “Finger­prints,” packed with laughs and thrills,, will b* the attraction Mon­day and Tuesday, January 31 and
PLANS FOR ANNUAL
IND. SMOKER NOW
r*aheU vld¦e*f*
Mrs. Joseph R--alts of Pittsburgh- 
been painted by 
Mrs. Hallman were assembled in place It would xnake -a gallery romlnent PlUsburghers. Some 
of her sitter?, in addition to those- ln tbe exhibition, are Mrs. Stewart Johnson. Mr*- W. A. Hilllan}, Mre. George, W. Bissell,- Mrs.^Knowlas. W’oodw^li; • MrB.^ iSiamudl' ' Harden' Church, Mrs. William. Meroari Mrs. W. 0. Roblnaon, Mrs. Earl Gould', Miss Fannie Lyon and Mre. Charles 
Arbuthnot.. Mrs.- Hallman is one of the best Known woman painters in the United States. She studied under 
her father, Joseph - R. Woodweil, who was a gifted painter and who 
was a trustee of-tho Carnegie to stltute tor twenty-aix ycarg, He ifcd In the permanent it. tbe Institute oy- two 
paintings. Mrs. Hallman has ex­hibited in practically all the In­ternational exhibitions. Her por­trait of tho late Judge John D. Shafer will oe-remcmberod^by the 
lultorr to the twenty-flfth li latlonal ^bia^.palnfciWQiiitia*; Allegheny County Bar A.^sodatloi hftiig in the rooms of th< 
n in the - Clty-Count: Building.Two years ago Mrs. Hallman hat i exhibition of her paintings e the Corcoran Gallery, Washington, She -had a'group of palnl i the SesQul-centehnlal a Philadelphia. At the Panama- Pacific Exhibition in .1315 .she , awavded “'a silver ^medar. ‘ I Hallmoh is a memh«r of the tional Assocldtlon of Woman Pi era andr€>«ulptdrsW'>‘'!Following is a complete lisl the paintings and water color: the- exhibition: ' Palm Fronds, Bridget of Ballybunnion, 
land •• Dunes. The Old Barn, Na­ture’s Jalousie. Poinclana Tree, Portalt of. Marcia, . Springtime- Rolling Rock, Portrait . ot. Miss Mary .Louise. Jackeon, . Grants 
Town, Nassau, Pikes Peak, Farm Fields. Bahamian Shore Line, Co- coanat Tree, Portrait .of Dr. Ctrls- tophnr.- C. Sfcndels, Penstemon, Bay Shore, Miami. Magnolia, Por­trait ol the Hon. John Shafer, The Harbor-Naeeau, The Argoslea, Ophelia of Nassau/Along the River, the Um>rella,. The Living hinnecock Hltls, Peonies, 
Caliaijaa
First Chnrth of Christ, 
ScientistClyde. Street Near F.lfth Avei Suadaÿ. ll A. M. and 8 P.-1 . .Wednesday. 8 P. M.• Sunday School. 11 A. M.
Cliff Restaurant
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
•' ¦' ’ Vieaf ATry our Special'Lunches—40g Special Rates To Stjidenta ,
• ‘Goodyear-.Welt System 
4523 FpftB.es ST.REET 
WE REPÁÍA RUBBERS
MOvR£ CORONAS ARE 
.USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Beforetlie- days-of; Corona. t Cbllefle work vras writ- by Hand. Nowmo'atTBfalleflO
th»nB Istypew find Coronas a* »liege
rltteiou1«! >rk In every' jrld. More ay than' ali of portables:
twelve yard rlbboi bl8 ynaehlne teatur«
only $60.00.
COMPANY 
I FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0742
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRAIG AND FORBES STS.
.Beginners Monday.and Fri­day Evenings. Advanced, Thursday . and Saturday Evenings. Private lessons by appointment.¦ Mayflower 7891
BUTLER'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET. - We'Deliver All Orders.J: O. BAKER, Manager s Mayflower 7644
Church of the Ascension
. (Episcopal)
H. BOYO EDWARDS, f
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH 0 FOR YOUR OANCE7 . 
..TMe.Coupon .aqd'.:40c'v^ll. ent)tle^QU.t®,o609'dlnner.- 
THURSDAV EVENING 4:30«'.00 P. M.
TRY OUR 39c^LUNCH 
Special — Paetrleo with Fra­ternity letters. for- occasions,
ShontU’B Tea R«om
971P FORBES STRfelET Phene Sehenley 0318'
4695 FORBÉS ST. (Near Craig) I
COLLEGIATE
BEAUTY
SHOP
422 SOUTH CRACG STREET 
EXPERT. OPERATORS
(Continued from Page One) 
The department stunts are all readiness. The Works Manage- ent department has taken therd for the ilevel sThis year, however, the Building. Construe tlon' and Printing departments are confident that they have the nec­essary talent, and nre out for blood. With rivalry . so intense, 
the stunts are »bound to bo most entertaining. Thfn, too, the Plebe
sober. It's not their' nature.
to be so lowered that ntsht lio will, not be offended It ' strange, harmless under­graduate should ask his wife to ice, and ehe accopts. s Surely, 
must have liquor to go through all this: "He might want to become illnh anil address Mlsa Black of 'tlie fac^lty; ae .Ml68-Bi^e,^od 
nlLhavo a Jolly laugh'together.' He never do this ntark sober.. alack and aias, after silm- u p his total-¡expenditures, nnd-finding that they «at up tbo better part of a hundred dollars.^ decides not to-go. However, he' has had the pleasure of dreaming' about going, and envies tho for-
STRAND THEATER
Rex,, the wild . horse, -will hold the screen . Wednesday and Thurs­day at S'tanlay.Rowland & Clalrk's Strand In his latest picli DeVll Horse,”, a story oflthe great outdoors among the pioneers and tbe Indiana. Friday and Saturday, Tohnny Hines In '‘Stepping Along.” H sure and see George Wtilte’s 
shorus do'the Black'Bottom .the Charleston is passe. Monday and Tuesday "God Gave Ms ‘¿O' Cents," with' Lois Moran, Jack Mulhall and Lya • De Puttl In one of the best pictures of the year. Selected come- lies and'nows ; events with' each 
hangei'of/feature:
which1 made Its Initial 
appcaranco at the Science Stag, will.. .furnish , the music .for the frolic. Incidentally,- Uiere wlli be food and smokes to complété the card-for the evening.Tlcketd-are now on sale, both in Industries and Science. In Science there r.re many Freshmen who are eligible^ to attend the Industries Smoker. They should avail, them­selves ot their opportunity to pur­chase tags from thé salesmen sta> lloned there.- The^prlce has been fifty cents'.
•jilt1 of'1the Man. 'John' DairelL Wln- rbor-Malne,. Flprldu' .. Flow- !<1 Wood:Cclorado, Sponge Cocoanut Grove, Over the Palr:s, Poilralt of Mr. wTlltan» Star Apples, A Hunt in Town, Colorado, Mountains of; Jamaica, Flower Arrangement, ilt Cay-Bahama. Islands, Portrait 
bt: the • Hon. 'Robert S'. .Fraaer; Ta- Beach-Flcrida. Wlilte Cannas, ralt of Fiank C. McGIrr, Eeq., Kettle Hill-Santtago di - Cuba, Pittsburgh Mills, Light House- York Harbor, Storm Wind's, My Mother, St. John Rlyer-New Bruni wick, " September Flowers, Oph<
.Há'a
j fresiBut to bis (
the xlumnl association In order attend en-affair in no «ay
nected with.tt. ';":As':thls.condition ''of . Injustice does not-affect me. this la not an' expression of :sour grapes; but appeal -; tor. • my- less fortunate 
frlendi(Signed) ARCH DEPT
( EXECUTIVES .TO; DINE | - AT CARNEGIE INN
(Continued from Page One) 
and Ohio Railroad, Bell Tetephone Company, Blaw-Knox Company, Carnegie Steel Company, Crucible Steel Company of .America^ Hi 
penstall Forge and Knife Co pany, Heyl and Patterson, Jon Laugbllti - Steel Corpora tic the Koppets--Company,- • McCUn'tlc- tyaTB>wi\l: Co.mpanyv Mesta Machlne Company.'NaUbn'at'Tube' Company,
MANORTHGATER
'God Gave Mo 20 Cents”, wltl L^>Is Moran. Jack MUlhall and Lyi De Puttl will- hold the screen a Sianlev-Rowland & ¦ ClaYk's Manor Theater Wednesday and'Thursdi One ot/ the- truly fine pictures 'of 
the year, directed b? the man made "Beau Geste. " Friday Leatrlce joy. one of the screen s greatest In her' latest De • Mllte mseterpiece. ¦'The Clinging Vine.”- Saturday, 
James Oliver Curwood's. 'TlaiQlng Forest with--Renee- Adorce.’ the star of the big parade and Antonio Moreno supporting'her. Monday and Tuesday “Ladles a.tPlay:'’ with
nanv. Plttshurch' and Lake' Eri< Rallrqaa. Pittsburg ' Plate Glasa inv,-Pittsburgh Valve. Foun­dry and' -Construction Company; Pressed Steel Car Company, Unloi Switch and Signal Company: Wesi 
Inghouse Electric and Manufactur­ing • Company. Westinghouse Air
(Continued from Page One) 
oest .for all purposoB. . The stand will be'decorated with green: grajs. symbolical ot the Russian steppes, and Durbin Homer.
if-t.i Beach; A:'Na;
W•FE Is the Age of Specialization
SO IT IS WITH US 
ft specialize in Renting the Latest St>ieS In 
tó-date Quality, Tuxedos for the College Man.
Whittington Dréss Suit Co.
Day—Grant 2604—PHONE-r-Nlght—Lafayette 4791-R
Village, .Jamaica Landscape.Ray Palms, Lumber Mill-St John 
Ram'naa arid Palms, The Loxahi e. The Rage on pie Bar, Fnu tain. Nlcotlaua and Zlnnlte,' Qjien- wood Sprlngs-Cotorado. Port P .lorida Fnilt and . Flo’ au Harbor, .Tbe Garden Pool, Along the Beach, Flowers AVhitehallV'My Gaxden. The Gc ‘a House, Under the Tre< Village in Nova Scotia, Moonlight, Guayra, ^ "Meiguba,” -Fairy. Island-Jamaloû, ' The Wake of; tbe Boat, Along ' the Wall, Florldi , A Nassau Garden, Blscayne Bay, Cumberland Hills, Eucharist Lilies. Hauling. In Hie Seines, Colo- Garden,' .‘^Viacayo,“- Bathing,' Sen Orapcs. A Windy Day, Clifton- lu. An Ensi Wind, A late bfg rival, Nassau,: Tropic Moonlight, Fishing Boats, -Ràfni The Red Tug, Otd' Somlnole' Spring;-‘..Native’ Cot- •tage;. Comingr ' Storm,- The '• Morion-1 hela.'^ea Roses, Rolling Surf, Verberins,. Channel Markers, Palms and Tutfquolao Water."The- exhibition will continue 
through February 26th.
STA^LEY-ROWLAND-CLARK’S
STRANB
— REX —
th. Wild Horse, In
“The Devil Horse”
Jöhaäy bines tin 
“Stepping Alone”-----with------
MARY BRIAN
MoiFebrua
“GodGaveMe-aoc”
LOIS MORAN JACK MULHALL LYA DEBUTTI
NEW PRICESand 20c
MAN OH
“Còd Cave Me Xoe”LOIS MORAN JACK MULHALL '
Leatrlce Joyto 
4iThe CUflglng Vtate"
RENEE ADOREE ANTONIO MORENO .
Monday.^ryi. Tueeday ,¦
uLadles At Play”DORIS KENVON . . LLOYD HUGHES
GET STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE '
’Ideut that there are still' :s students who are not coming to the ball because of tack of partners. To obviate this situ­ation. members of the social com­mittee will endeavor to' secure all aececsa^y InttoducUons. -There stags allowed at" the members .of..thie.com- 'mittefe are PauhSchfell.' chairman; T)aVe "Wilson: Pa'uV lCIng.-'Wllauth Marsden, Ray Jones. Irene Ted- 
row. Margaret'GaUager. Grace Mll- Uken. 'Arthur -Sldells. Mlna Davls
Scheniey Theater
First Floor and Balcony—25c 
Meecaninor-36a- 
HARRY: DAVlS^General^Manager - “ ‘ ‘ i Pittsburgh,
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, JANUARY 26 AND 27. “Thè Mystery Club”Thrills,'Romance) Heart Appeal, Humor, with, - - 
MATT MOORE, EOITH ROBERTS, MILDRED, HARRIS,
FfllOAV AND SATURDAY, JANUARY 2fl AND »Renee Adoree and Antonio Moreno
. GARDNER'JAMES, TOM O'BRIEN, CLAIRE McDOWELL,. BERT ROACH jn ' ;. \ .“The Flaming Forest”
ON THE STAGE ALL WEEKThe Caroliná. Nighthawks
. Twelve Talented Performers.with Versetlle Profiram-of Muelo, * Dancing ond. 8lnglng,> featuring .A Qleyerr Exponent of the New'HIt, The Blsek- Bottom.
•MONDAY 'AND'TUESDAY,"'JAfVUA-RY?'31 nubwp FEBRUARY 1 
LOUISE FAZENOA,-HELENE COSTELLO-AHO - JOHN T MURRAY In the' p1cture'6f'Thrnie *nd*.Lai>tha.:'_____“Fingerprints”
NEWS REELS• -Lota-of.:Space to-park Your Car.NOVELTY FILMS

---------------------------------------------------

Charles A. Coffin 
Foundation Fellowships
Announcement was made reccnt- 
j> pi 'the conditions under which 
the (Siailes A. Coffin- Foundation 
IfeOowBblps will be awarded for 
A« academic year, 1927-1928. Tbe 
Foundation established 
Giaenil Electric Company, pnv 
videfl for tbe award of 8
RIFLE mAM LOSESfPLEBE QUINT DEFEAT
NL GY»CUI»YBF,Cj7ih WASfNE FR
and dollars' annually for fell 
ships Pl graduates of lie univer­
sities, colleges,' and ' technical
bave showa, by the character of 
Uialr ’wortc,' tbat they could, with 
advantage, undertake or continue 
research work In educational Insti- I 
tntloas, > either. In this country or 
abroad. Tbe .fields In wblch these 
teUcy?fiWP9*ore awarded' are • Ete«-' trielty, Physics, and Physical 
Chemistry.Tbe,Committee) désires to nuko the awanis to' men who, without 
financial assistance. would' be un­able' to derote themselves to re­
search work. ' The fellowships vrili carry a minimum' allowance of five hundr*d dollars. This al­lowance may be increased to meet special needs- of applicants. tc whom’ - tbe Committee decides tc 
awav'd tlie -Fellowships.Candidates should file applica­
tions on forms provided for this purpose. Applications -«*111 be comsd from seniors desiring, to do work as a part ot tbe requiretaei for *>n advanced degree-as well from graduates, but any award ft s-'ntor will be conditioned upon bis ' ip-aduatioEL All appllcatli sâottfd first bo sent' to theiteiin ot ihe educational institution which the applicant attends or baB at­tended. Tbe Dean will. In turn, Die... all -implications recolved by 
biro Ont tlie sanufotlme, together.
Loss ts Fust of Season— 
Defeat Gettysburg.
.And Lehigh
Tbe Carnegie varsity rifle team continued Its splendid showing 
thisyeurby. defeating four teams, .-and losings to only © a small margin.
. During. the week of January 16 'CPxncgi^'defieatettGettyBbttt« 'Col­lege, and Lehigh University, but lost to tbe strong team of Johna Hopkins University. Tbe team 
offered Its first defeat this sea- on by losing this match. Tbe 
cores wore Carnegie, 1875; Johns' Hopkins. 1869; Gettysburg, 1S27; Lehigh? 1767.' ' '•
A. M. Fisber led Carneete’s score ith tbe highest individual >r any man on the team this sen,-
Ori the Plaid Screen
individual i
7. Fork-8. Swear
9. Cuthbertth©
vlUt imen applying who in bis opinions are best qualified.Application' must be filed with 
tbe Committee by March 1. 1927, and should bo addressed to Mr. W. ~W. Trench, Secretary, Charles A. 
Coffin Foundation, 6cbenectady, 
New York.The following commjttèe slsUng ot a representative ot each of (be foiiowituf nàméd socJet/es will award tbe fellowships funds acting with tbe ad vip© co-operation o* tbe General, Elee- trie Company’s Committee:Oano- Dunn. Notional Academy of Sciences; C. G. Chesney, Amerl'- ran Institute of Electrical En­gineers : Defth .0. M. Lelanfl, St>* cfefcy.. for. . tho ' Promotion of En- 
•BlbepfioS^Mu^lOp..^,-y',,Four.graduate students andt>ne 
ondèrgraduatchave been awarded fellowships for the year'"or 1926-1 
¿7. : In edition the committee 
granted-one renewal and ^pointed 1
Those receiving the ¿wards are. 
aa Allows: .1Hubert' N: Alyea, for research work abroad at cne'Nobel '•Insti­tute, Stochholm, Sweden and at Princeton on the Inhibition of cbénvisal xe&ctlons,. atyfllee ...pho-, tocbèriMcàiiy arid ' thermdly. ' Mr. Alyea is' a.graduate of Princeton, and ataci bolds a degree of M. A. fronV tbe same Institution.‘ Warren F. Busse, holder of de­grees ot Fh. 'B in Physics and AT. 9: ip Chemistry from the Univer­sity, ot Wisconsin, is at prcaent a research assistant at .Wisconsin Univerity and propoi
returns
received from.a delayed, match. witli Amherst College an Western Maryland. -'Carnegie' gargets wero fired during the week 'of Pecsinber and then sealed.until the week. of. January 14. herst and Western Maryland | fired their targets. ' Both these, itches were' won. - The scoria, pf the four position match' with' West­ern Maryland :belug: . Carnegie ,8oO out of a possible 2,000; West­ern Maryland.1,847.-- By previous arrangements, *nly 
three of tbe position scores were ed in the match against Amherst College. These positions prone, kneollng'and standing. Tbe scores -were* Carnegie '1,375 out of 1.B00; Amberat 1.288.The Individual lineup and snoreB for Carnegie w<
The tiunegie Plebes lost to the 
v: & J. • frashmenv in- a. hard fought gamo last Tuesday. played 
ue a preliminary to tlie varsity encounter.. The score was 36 to; 16. and the Red and Black1 cubs {«111/ deserved' to win. although not by that margin. -Tho score st 
the end of the half was' in, their fav'or, but in tbe second 
Xrame they located the basket nnd ran It up. V ‘ -i • v‘
Tbe Plebes flayed a fair floor 
nocm! Wit their’ shooting..* re* tMd^oàia^üsjfc-th* totat tot* 
the entire teaok ». Howdy ' Oroeskloea, ft Carnegie Plebe two years ago, was high scorer for the evening, inth Ur© field goals and two fouls. Too bad Howdy changed schools. :For ihe piebos, Bond aad Hart- man- play^.the beat g&fa-«}? VbUe 
Oro^skloss and Lewis starred for tbe Red and' Black. Lineup r V,'. & J.—35. Carnegie—16.Unison ...........F................Brown
osekloss.......F.......... Hartman'ucks..............C............... PondEU is ___Powders
Si'colst ..f.......C.......... GimmeirDstltulions — Lewis too- Uru- 
A.. Slater for Loucke, Hirsh- for Ellila, ConDeliy tor Brown, Nollson for Gimmel, Brown for Connelly, Blere Cor Nielson, Con­nelly for. Powders. Goals from, field—Lewis . 4, Groaskloss 5, Loucks, A. Slater 2, Sllis 3. Brown, 
rtmas, Bond 2,. Glojteel. Foul rts—W. &.J., 5 <>ut of 11; Ci negle 6 out of 12. Umpire—Si 
Referee—Baird.
BY FREOER1CK O. WOODS
ONCE MORE Carnegie. 10 In the U.weB of
”“MXKSÁ 'SS ÂTeîÂmen pull up thelr grades. Joîm Irwin can put
tbe" remainder of Its gaines. • The studeat body will be.ooreUian 
Isfled If Captain Hurt and Ms gviïS S w^î^brlSwt^bS jlKL making it a Carnegie series, and bump ©H W. & J.. breaking _tnat Jin*. It is a lot to ask, but we think thst tpam of '¦»*» »“
kotber géme CroiJ„ breaklng ibi .Is'capable' otdoing,It.
. W. & 3. ootmmns Cárnegle-s
tave toDbe done about that when Wasb-Jeff plays here on Marcb 1. 
THIS RIFLE It» ot ouré •« B?ÍU!Í^^SUS&
INTRA-NIURAL BASKET 
BALL TO START FEB. 9
ball Fobmary 9. At the meeting Tuesday. January II. M. O. bbo^ mao Sigma- Phi Epiaou fraternity, was elected vloo president, ond 1* 
F. McQulK), Phi Kappa:Fraternity, electcd treasurer. • John Fry president The sch^ule. for 
the whole .season.,Is now complete and Rppears elsewhere in this Is-
ups appearing recently
«Bible 400 is no loager a rarity, and ooe ineligible man,.who eck for tbe second semester, licapable ot shooting 390
Df 400. Rifle,mparatlvelydoue strides sluce It i r previof 359 ’
Carnegie, has. taken 1 i.minor sport InTho
Ti™ban7il!‘,”~'3 ‘»ndeVÄ TSbe credit tor the records
meted cups'lor i> Lieutenai
t tbe credit t ue to the Inter i thV Carnegie
CARNEGIE UNABLE 
TO HOLD W. & J.
aken In tbe sport by Major Tayloi 
hm O. T. C. unit, wbò. has donated cups oeets: and to Lieutenant Arrowsmltb. heod c
GIRLS’RIFLE TEAM FIRES 
CHAMPIONSHIP MATCH
The . final i
best for Carnegie having a Bcor of 2P0 out of a possible 200.,Th©' enslueers matcli will b flTed any one week between Kel 
nary 1 and April IB. This also i i aaUonal match, all members of 
he R. O. T. C. ia the-'englnèeVlne inita X thd varloi/a côllegèBi béiog 
eligible 'to shoot ’ '10 men lC each team.' The match will be shot in four positions, tb<I score counting as Ifce acori the tn>phy winner. This an 
uoal match is sponsored by The Society of American Milite
4 Pos.-3 Pos .... 374. 282
-«suits of tbe N. It. 
nter-colleglate Cham- 
ionship which closed Januar>- 23, 
ave.not been received as yet. A 
03: days before the end of. tbe 
ontost the Carnegie girls who 
tood in the lead for their Bcbool for«: Ruth Dawson, Helen Bright,ijndShapiro,' Jean Rc Alice Bright. Ruth Dawson bad çf 696 out. cf
PËTTIC0RD TO MANAGE 
VARSITY CROSS COUNTRY
At the last meetlnjof tbe fttb- ir. Pettlcord 
elected varsity cr«»sa couutry iftger . for nexf year, nnd Bur? 
H. Pease was selected to rfige the Plebe barriers.- Çotb,
viàrloU6:team3; .only thirteen,.ofihe 
twéntìr-flW.' belu« ;presebL at . the last mwtlntf. To encourago bet- Atendaoce, it wna vulod that r fraternity or dormltory not represeisted at tie meetlngs wuuld be subject to a G0-cent fine. This rule: twent lnto cff^bt' onv'JibUary' 11; it Is necesBary that each team 
pay the 912 fee before. tbe first game or the scries. . This jnonwy U used tor. ninnine expenses and tor 
the payment of tbe rereree./Tho last meeting this semester wae January 18, at which the fol­lowing rules, concerning .tho; se­
lection ot teams, wero drawr.Any member of ’ a, fraternity or lVL J dormitory registered la s. regular 
of degree course who does' not ploy I with the vaxsliy team or has ne played professional basketball, to! eligible to piar. Each club ls| limited td IB players.weekly -^meetings will re-
____February 1 and continuethroughout ¿he season. The $13 it and tho roster of the 
players muut be had from each club by February 1.' There meet­ings should -be well-attended, as it is only.through,the co-operati
Skibos Ahead at Half, ll*10f 
But Presidents Redly to.
Cop Game, 34-21
Carnogle Tech ‘ was-unable to. 
break the W. & J. -••Jin*." losing to Prrsldenta last Tuesday ntsht January 18, in the fourtoenth'^xin- 
secutlre game, -. 34*21. Wash-Jelt dWMved its victory although' tiall- polat 11*10. at the end
The Univerelty of Marquette bar 
new dean of women wbo-doea not approve .- ot amoldn^. but she 
UitnVa bobl>ed hair and moderately ahort skirts aro «ulte all right She ie going to.do fway.with the.9 dock curfcir ond all other un­
necessary rulings.
of tbe^Srat half. In this stava. tho Tartans completely outplayed tbe Red and Black but CMch| 
Kerr's men came back with n geance lu tbe second holt <' 
Wasb-JeS played wrotchcd bask­etball tlurlns the first two <tfiar- tore, the plnyers eoemiug to be slugsish and tic famed ipresldsn- tl«l team work missing except 
.ear tho end ot the period, Car- _iegle, meanwhile, was playing glittering ' basketball- outpassli nnd cuiehoQtlng her ,- opponents 
and reftchlas the scorliig xom 
most at' wilL ,- 
Carnegie started the point.reg­istration with a foul throw almost at the start .Klrkman evened the
ELLIOTT'S 
4010 Fifth Ave. 
Store ia Convenient 
for Students’
‘ Supplies
Our branch store was. establish*ed for the p&troa&ge ot uelgh- borbood students and is stocked with merchandise required lia
______>r accordcd ¦ thenr. ' Pottl-cord succeeds Murray, CoUlster, varsity ménager' for the past
ilble 600.
Bright had shot the first 
stage. bet<
. trophy
i by the Iowa State Agricui- > and Mechanical Arts college.
the relation between. cheistudy 
ileal -ef-
fect. and the ionization . produced by cathode rays outside th.: Bernard. D. Holbrook, for Inves­tigating some phase ..(nbt yet dster- niln«l) of'-the general problem of the reaction between radiant en­ergy and mutter, as investigated by tbe icloud-expansion chamber. Mr. Holbrook Is a graduate, of Le- 
laind Stanford: Jr.:University, btw- ing recolved both a B. A. and M. A. degree from tbat InslUut! -Thomas J. Killian, for work thermionic currents from absorl Amis and conduction in gases vapors. Mr. Killian wa6 g**a aied from the Massachusetts aUtnte- of-fTechiiology, 1325, with tbe dogrece of B. S. an<l M..S. -He -wllV^'pursue bis : research w< " under tlie followship in l*rltice1 
University.Lloyd ,P. Smith, Ui\W<*Telty Nevada, '.25, B. S. Is/stiidylng at Cornell University and ywin do re.:• the-[.theory
1. Weatberell ..
2. Fisber AM..3. McConagby .4. Porter ........
G. Cuthbert ....
Total ..........
Fi3her G. W..........349 26:
luch credit is due to tbe Car negle' teamVfof tber fact, that wltl 
scores of \thelr fi^st match they defeated two teams 'eTe able to benefit by a month )f. practice and match 
periehce.It t6 expected that next eemes;
-higher than -.at';'present ?The; ma­jority of the varsity' and plebe ifle teams ‘belong to the R. O. and. -Carnegie - should have - gocJd showing In the R. O. T. ntercolleglate Ihlfd corpB &r 
match, the- Hearst Trophy mate nnd . the Engineer’s motch U 
year.The plebe team continued th<
of: thermal^iooiztttion,; or,-theory -ot the "HaU; Effect” E 1ng 1925-20 .hé -was. employed the. General: Electric Company'« Research. Laboratory.Jaméà Ë. Taylor, a graduato” of Wittenberg ^College, and à. hold« of an il; Ai-degree from the Ohio State .University, is at present e(slant professor -at WUtenbecg. Witi. his'fellowehlp ke will ;dc searco .work- at Ohio -State and attémpt. a pnxtisl:re30lutioa of tli
: Harold N. , Row.e. Svho haa; dut- ing the 'past 'yecr^beeniwi... . w . tiie"Un|yfer^it^V^<’ 'Chlc^O/ urider this frtîindàùoo^has .beei a oontlauation of . his fellowship, foT another year. Mr. Rowê 'rras i graduated from Union "Çoïtego-ju 1929 with ¿degree of B..S.'-In rJB? É, and remained there as an ,In-1 etructor for the year following, alter 'which he went to Chicago. Dnilng. tlie post year .Mr. ; Rowe has.. ibèen'îengnged-in -ft .test-'of- thé ¡qtian-; turn tneoty bt'X-radiaUon-'H'.'.? ;
•Approximately $20,000 (exactly SIP,600) has;: been ^worded : in fel: lowahipa.iii’tbe four years lxia.t the 
'FoQodàtloD bas béèn in operation.
(Continued from Page.One) 
re served chocolato by . Miss tea who arranged tbe entaitaln- ut; and then taken through tfio 
hospital to see tlie men who were 
ino-ble to be present Neat Saturday , afterdoon the ^nb- wHl eing -ln 'th& Lmi&',Th.ca- er when' the' Freshmen girls will mve Open House for the high 
school, 'sophomore ' girls ot 
vicinity.
ion that It would 
not permit a rearing of. that stage.I Mias Brlgbt’e other two scores
The. prise for the winning team 
ih this contest is tlve silver medals ropiiately engraved, to go I the live highest scorers .of. th team. Tbe second and third prizi bronze medals. lndlvidu percentage medals are also awaj Last year the University of 
Maryland, coed's won the N. R. A. 
?bamplonBblp. 'Thei
concerned that' the be made the success 
which It deserves.There are 35 teams which divided Into four leoguoi
.. 6hot from tho' floor. 
That wa« tbo only,, time tho Red Black wae eWfld In the' first Harpster/^Hvenod the tally 
with: a . foul. twW .and Comeglo. aulckly gntbered three flejd .goali 
and a successful foul throw wh»< Conch Kerr’s pupils were landlnj 
ono field goal through tho medium ot a long toss by Klrkmnts.'' Then Wash & Jeff , rallied for 
period and Gilchrist put his team 
bacfc in the runnlne by caging twi
with low prices , and expert at­tention.
Drawing Materials : Architecte’ Supplies .- Engineer»' Supplies Artiste* Materl*!» '
meras & Projectors’elopinglaos—Sp98to«les
elimination' sertoe, - between the victors of the respective leagues, will be played the last weok 6t March.* Tbe. final winner wlil be the team bavlng the highest per­
centage ot victories.___________
and Pease succeeds -Joe
Dowlii
Pdttlcord Is a Junior architect id is a member of Bela Theta PI aternity. He comes from Wheel* lip, West Virginia. Pease corneBfrom Sbaron,- Pa,, and is,a JunioriBo^.-.seatlns,... ..the .department . of ‘ Building TOrchestra, ................ 2.00Construction. He. Is'a member of |Firet 3 rows .In first balcony. 
Kappa Sigma fraternity.
Cress
Balance of fer^t balcony.
•ress country stock took a boom IFirBt 4 rows In second balcony 1. 
... Carnesie'during the jrast aea-1Balance of jhe aeats 
son, during which • tbe' Western ““ nplonsbip was *on by the Tar- i, and much is expected ot next
W. anil. J. coming frotp behind the fourth 'period tor a 84*21 -wiu., 
and J.—84 Carnoglo—81.
Klrkman .........P............. AmansRobinson ........P..WhiieGllchrtat .........C....;.. Harpsler
Carlin ....o.^G.V......... W®?*Wild. ...'..V. ...O.____HitchcockSubstitutions—Herrold tor Kirk- _jm. Amos tor Robinson," Ssitdsrs 
tor GUChrist. Ashman for Wild, Cnjnt. for Amans,: -.Amani tor White, WMte for Crum, Hurd for
Stít¿n¡s¡fj
SELECT JUDGES FORINTERCOLLEGIATEGLEE CLUB CONTEST
The University cf Missouri. has on enrollment of 961 in tbe school of Journalism. This number in- eludes 142 women and 219 men It is the largest'enrollment In th( 
history of the'achool.
¿and .the .flve-h1gheiare'to count The cohdil of the contest are:’ match will slet ot three etages. , An : e> stage must be completed in- 
day/ Each .stage wlll -oonsh two strings ¿ach of 'two sighting
There la also a special rate Btudents who dûelre to attond, tbe follows:
Orchestra ............-r-3First balcony ..............Notices will Boon'ho- poated 
the bulletin boards,-giving Information regarding tb 
¿est 'which is to be held
Hitchcock, Hitchcock tor Lynch, Kallnck for Harpster, Stauffer foe. 
Hitchcock.Field -goats—Klrkman 6,' Robin­
son 4, Gilchrist 2, Carlin 2. Amai ^7Ud, Amans .2. White 2. Horpster 
Vurtfier b, Lynchi Hurd.
EUROPEWhere Jp you tvimttogo?
Dova tbe Uilne f To SwltjMliOOf 
MoaiâSi'taSaslucl ¿d acodkod?'Qates Touts .vltlu alt thwri places .
shots fc firéd ili Ih» T>rone.position.Tho- results • of the maft no'. he known until ail er ti of February.
.. (Continued Fro song- The "rtiz "The Lotus Flov cefved the hoiio
i Pago One)111 be 
¦\ which 2927.‘planning to. attend 
tbe- Iñterfratarñity Fornài, which 
Is being held
.,Foul goals—Klrkman, 1 out ot "tSe Herrold. l out ot 2; Robinson, 1 the out of 6; Gllcbrlst, 1 out of 2; Car- Un, missed 1;: Wild, missed 2; White, missed 1; Stauffer,-missed
¦'iGÄra-'S:':TÒ,URS-225FlithAv«5.,N.Y.
 __  ^_____________________ gening\9 «ie'’concert Thé concertf.?rtll 
foipêTô à dose at Th9 prices lor' tb
iet Vir-
erelty in - a prone match, during the week endiug 
January IB.' The scores were as Carnegie 4&8 out òf
negle-were: - 1. Kaschagen. 
Lockwood 
Kubnel. ...
. ZachriiBon . 
. Scott Lindsay 10. Hiller .. ..This ipatch ¦ 
Central H. S. O., but diie t
also>£ Washington, a- misunderstanding 
foiled to fire their 
•Their . targets ft match xrtll be - a^ed: durlag the weektof January.^' and Uu ' ill'ba telegraphed.. .The plebe team Is doing ©nally well in..their, prone, 
ijttctos, and.much credit tor this he showing is due to the . expert 
coaching of Lieutenant Ai imlth, and the aasistance Kaschagen,' • iU-iplaln of the plebe boisg coached 
the sitting poBiUdn lu j 
paration" .tor;.’ their -‘prone pitting match with United- St( .^Narol Academy, and Eastern High School of Washington,. D. C. will be flred during the we 
iiig'February .-3 B. O. T. C. Ti
wlilch
FRANK BROTHERS
MhAwtiueHmil Shoo.
• ^jrwy>ewtve|iftlblt Shop ; 
Jfnkliw. Araade, PHMutÿi
The R; O. T. C. is now:-flriag the 
third • corps • area inter-collegiate match. Each of tlie nine
ip three teams having the. high-.
L 3Core will- fire-forv^e natlonal rtm^ot^ip.'before :^bniaTy--19, Lait »-ear's inatch was won by Vir­
ginia Polytechnic, Carnegie getting iii.th- place. '.Although.: there 
tiopbyv given tor the ^Anni jpatch,-the honor and pah: 
ty. are'weil worth working for. ‘he William' Randolph Hearat trophy, match 'WiU.‘be. flred'during 
the ^riod'Fe'bruary 15. Thlainatch'le conducted under the aus­
pices of f tbo Chicago ‘Evening 
American and- consists i>t f< sUiona; .> SI*- , shots are flred In 
aa*b position, ono for sighting and 
ilve tot record. This is: a nalional. match-: In which, .ihe4.R.. O. yT. units' In all the colleges .compete. •>ny It O. T. C. man belng ellgibls 
I to' ah'oot '^'liat i'year’B .trbiihy^was i woti^by' tW.'UntverBlty' a? Mlnh«> 'sola, Paul Henderson'shooting the
Intra-Miiral Basket Ball Schedule
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Wood-A. f. O.Acacia,S. A. E.ScobellP. K. A.
Woodlawn Club.....
Feb. 9 (1) 7:30Fib. 19 (2> 7:30March 23 . (1) 8:30Merck 8 (1) 7:30(1) 8:80
Alpha Taw Omega...Feb. 9 (1) 7:30(Í^T-SOFeb. 17 (1) 8:30
March 22 (2) 8:30March 9 (1). 7:30
Acacia. ¦ ..........
Feb. 16 <2) 7:30March 2 il) T.3Û
Feb. 10(2) 7:30 .March IB (1) 8:30(2) 8:30
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
March 23 - (1) 8:30Feb. 17 (1) S:30Feb. 10 (2) 7:30a -MaTCh 2 (2) 7;30(1) 8:30 '
Scobell__ ___
. March'. 9 . (1) 7:30 1March 22 (2) 8:30March IB (1) 8:30March 2 (?) 7:30(2) 8:30
Pi Kappa Alpha.....
. March 3 Í1) 8:30 (Numbers in
March 9 (1) 7:30 psren.th.e3le
March 23 March 16 . (2) 8:30 (1) 8:30 refer to floor)
'Feb. 15 (2) 8:30
AMERICAN LEAGUE ¦ . .
PhiKappaMiller . HallThetaXIDeltaUpsilon, BeU : 'Theta PIDelta
PM. Kappá.............
Feb. 16 (2) 7:30March 17 (1). 8 :30March 8 (2) .'7:30March 2 (2) 8:30.(2) 8:30 •
Miller....^... .......
Feb. 9 (2) 7:30
March 1 (2) 8:30Febr 17 (2) 8 [30.March 15 (2) 8:30March 9 (1). 8:30 ..
Thata xjFéb. 16 (1) 8:30March 1 (2) 8:30Feb. 10 (1) 8:30Feb. 23 (1) 7:30(1) 1:00.
Delta Upsilon........
March 17 (2) 7:30Feb. 17 - (2) 8:30Feb. 10 (1) 8:30March 23 (2) 8:30(1) .8:30 .
Beta Theta Pt.......
March>*6 . (2) 8:30March 16 (1) 1:30March 22 (2) 8:30-Feb. 23 (2) 8:30.(2) 7:30
Delta phi DeKa.,.
. March 2 March S ' (2) 8:30 . (1) 8:30 (Numbers in^parenthea
March 16 : (1) 7:30 s refer to fl
March 22 (1) 8:30 oor)
ï'eb. 15 (2) .7:30
' FEDERAL LEAGUE '
SigmaNuSigma Phi Spello*Delta Tau «•Delta¡1,5’«!.Beta Sigma RhoBess
Sigma Nu...........
Fob: .9 ' (1) 8:30Feb. 17 (1) 7:30March 22 (2) 7:30Feb. 23 (2). 7:30March IB . (-2)**8:30
. Sl«ma Phi Epsilo«-
Feb. 9 . (1).8:30
March 3 (2)-8:30(2) '7:30March 9 (2) 8:30March 1 (1) .7:30
‘Delta Tau Delta.. .
Feb. 17 . (1) 7:30March 3. (2) 8:30Feb. .10- (2) 8:30March 17 (I-) S: 30-March. 23 M'ar7fS0“
Kappa Slflma Hho.
March 22 . (2) 7:30March 16 it) .7:30Feb. 10 ..(2) 8:30
March 1 (1) 8:30.(2) 7:90
*. Beta Sigma Rho...
Feb. 23'. . (2) 7:30- March/9- . (2) 0:30March 17 • (I) 8:30March 1 (l)r 8^0(2) 8:30
Bess.....................
March. 15 . (2) 8:3*1 (Numbers'
March 1 March- 23 . March 6 ' (1) 7:30 . (1) 7:30 ,(2) 7:3.0 n çàrenthesis refer to'floor) .
Feb. 16 <2) 8:30
CENTRAL LEAGUE ;
WelchMtoQlllAlpha. Sigma Ph...Delta.Mu
Hender-Phi Sisma Kappa.KappaSterna
Weleft..........
Feb.' 9. (2>-8:30Feb. 1« ••.;(l)--7:30Marchilo -(1) 6:39• -March-3 •(1),7:30March 1.(2)7:30.-(1) -8:30 •
. McQlll'.'..
Feb. 9 ' . (2V 8:301. March S .. (2) 7:30Feb.. 23 XI) Zt30• ' .'Feb; IS'(iy. 8:^0March 12 (I) 7:30(2)7:30;
Alpha Slvina PM..
• Feb. 1€ March.,(1)'. 7:30. (2) 7?1Feb: 10 (l)v7-30-.Marché (2) 7:30Match-16(2) 8:30; March 8: (1)9:30
March10- . Feb'. 23 'Feb. 10 '-•¦March 17 Feb.-17*' X March" 2
You are an experienced srnoker 
and you know your brand!
YOU’RE an ^experienced- smoker, would not be far aoS away the 
You know good:-tobaccos.. You firjt 1( Caoiels weren’t qulitir.
XI) 8:S0: (1) 7:80 ; -m:1;a0 ¦
. RA Sigma Kappa.. 
• Kappa Slama .Uarch 24 March 16 * March 8 V 1 M*rch 3 Feb 15 • '(Numbers in-parenthesis refer to floor).-,,; .
supreme; they would not .be the 
'etwhelouog preference, of sntok-know taste' and fragrance. - 
. And you, must, on the best"7-7 
tbat*« Camels. '¦ Only the primest - ers who have tned every brand, 
tobacco«, grown an good enough 
lor you—-the expert «need smoker«
Whatever you do you «re going; to 
4ongKvilyoukAow.it.
If .Canwb weren't the beet, they
Yoiir.taste tells you the tobacco - 
ditference ut cigarettes,and you’re. 
gnlwg to amoke the*b«st. Your 
advice to othen ts — *?:
Cimeir
J REYNOLDS TOBACCO .COMPANY. WINSTON-SALBM,. N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

' Masaginff Editor!........*.....New? Editor^..................PraDcia;KoJ&Athletic Editor. • • . • .V. .Frederick ft Woods- J2lrff8Tfnrl zonflhc
Elienor TeJimsdge - Robert M, PewHarold JacobsonRalph tìUtchcock', Barto Grlíflse'A'.E. Fisher Eugene Scanlon
• -'y : J CWIOR EDITORS ¦ • 'Meredith Stamp • . . Milton Cohen-.Fenton Finn ' • Jean Roy ';
ALUMNI EDITORS.Margaret Russell'- ' Herbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin ' Helen Reed'Josephine Clark Cliarles HartungJohn Schneidet • ; (
REPORTERS;Stewart Ralston Wliiiam McNeil Eugene Jarema • R- .H., 6nyder ‘ Bob Young- Hel6ti Whlteblll Joseph G. Ritter Miriam Msrgolls Malcolm Oaj
Cyril Letzelter’ Bunter ¦ Clyde Parle
BUSINESS STAFF
Circulation Menage»
E......................Jàmes Seibert - ' T.. R. Zenk ' ', R. NobleCIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L. Sacks Q.W. -Brahmst j. R. BrownA. .Tepllts H. U Marshall
$*££.¦
Affa; Oflto.Hwk“» SehfBlfy «¿1 or Linden 12M-W.
WANTED: IHDIVlbUAIi CONCEPT
Just last week a meeting of members of the 
faculty and s -group of responsible students 
was'» held here to weigh and discuss problemi) 
onthe campus’ and attempt-to combine the stu­
dent'. and faculty.. viewpoints . into something 
•ffortfi. Many "worth-while suggestions
and^co'ouneìiia1 wépó-'.ihadé, just and reliable 
criòcisnis' were. offered, to the faculty by '6tu- 
déiitSy ahd'in r thè - main , thè meeting was not 
“just another session.”
• .;We, feel, however, if there was anything re- 
volvingabout in our minds during the progress 
of that meeting, it was a sore lack of teachers.
. Education today has. taken a highly specialized
cialized'labor-^-the college professor is 
A'small operation'to the final-product. The 
really sad factor, when the, product ;is r4ady 
to;be turned-loose on the marhet—the market 
- at whioh'-his services‘are sold for an existence, 
is that he is a combination' of these parts, a 
product of. many .specialists' handiworkj and 
not a. whole cultural body.
. Modernists cry about the “revolt of youth.’Z. 
Never has the youth been such a slave.to'bonds, 
never has he been a.product so truly molded, 
andehapedby the hands of specialists without^ 
even a peep as to the character of, the event­
ual craft. From .his'matriculation into the- 
modern educational institutibii until' EsT griaH- 
nation,,,h^ rigidly follows a set' course. He 
¦ leaves, a bundle .and' conglomeration offacta, 
lectures, and laboratory ‘ experiments, as well 
~w' as the conveyance -for *thei ¦collegiate fashions, 
lines, and dissipations which are all tossed into 
his makeup. ;True^ society is lera conyentional 
than' a few deceideb. ago and assumes' many 
privileges^¿»therto.v startling but the "course 
open is none the leea exacting and the event­
ual similarity of . tho product is" none the less
Notes of MusicBy Allan V. Nem
Old Max Nonlau iB dead and 
buried, end many ef his pwudo-psy­
chiatrical pronunciamentoe. are dead and buried' too. But It will 
fnltft rnoni than ote.C. B. 8. to lay 
his ghost; and »Inc« -O. B. S.'s are, hot produced very often, the snarl­ing spirit of the fleadlah Mai wiU itlnue to leap upon the bones of heroes; his obscetae shade will con­tinue to dabble In stained gore,
aa'd drum u 
skulls.id a-thousand ¦log fleBh and continue to cepts; will'
THE SiNKiWC IN THE CUT
them to ptrnggle to their feet in an attempt to 
assert at least one individual concept as a con. 
tribütion to the end.—From Michigan State 
"News.”
. ’ We fail in that no general understanding of 
thé-fife into which we must matriculate, is ;as- 
aimilatedl A college loyalty, a few lasting 
friendships and contacts, a bold front, are our 
rewards ' But the blâmé cannot be laid at thé 
foot of the college professor. He is also a .pro­
duct of a technical scholarship and hot of lib­
eral understanding. No other method is in his; 
hands.' The remedy,, obviously, is an attempt to 
evade the evil. To establish groups on a're­
vised basisi To gain a common ground with 
the' professor as a student and not the mouth­
piece spouting thp textbooks. To foster a fit­
ting environment for successors • whereby 
the individual may stand ou hi6 feet intellectu­
ally. It is for: those. ò£ the present younger 
generation who are aware of the pit in which 
.. we: stand' to'- block .its enlargement. .It .is for
VICE
-Barton W. Currie, writes an interesting edi­
torial in the January number of the Ladies’ 
Home Journal. It is interesting in moro ways 
thanone.- In the first place, the title. "Vice on a Ped­
estal." Such a head. at once attracts the at­
tention of the reader.
' But the. editorial, itself ¡does more. . It tells 
of an old axiom which runs: VIRTUE IS ITS 
OWN REWARD, and.'how it has'been substi­
tuted by the “world.of art and letters and 
decoration that, sets- the.; fashions in .reading, 
thinking and entertainment*1’for the aphorisln: 
ONLY VICE IS INTERESTING AND PROF­
ITABLE;.
It goes, on with a list of. modern.lnotloes:
. Virtue is the Punishment of the .Drab.
Love is an Anaemic Form of Passion.
All Who Pretend to Do Good are Shams and 
Liars.There aré'No Impulses Save.Sox Impulses. - 
There are No Appeals Save Sex Appeals. . ; 
Only Morons Believe There is-a.Soul. ' • : 
There' Never Was a Hero, a< Good Man,1 a 
Good,Woman, Who Could.Not-BeExplained 
as a . MoiiBter .:.of Animalism,. Selfishness, and ' CBnt—Oyerwhelmingly so in the Case of All 
Americans. ' (i, '
Such are supposed to,:he the :modern ideas 
of Life. There is. no,?*estrain.t,;no curb, no, lim­
itation in the younger generation. • “They are 
wonderful and it shines outpf:them like celes­
tial rays. 'When they-raise .hell they raise hell 
with-a joyous selfishness und disregard of the 
feelings, the property'and the rights of others 
'.that is admirable beyond measure °f praise.*’ 
• “When they, curse and blaspheme,', when, 
they get disgustingly drunk and. .broadcast 
their wisdom' concerning vsex 'degeneracy .aiifl 
sinless immoralities,..they have shown the way 
of reUeving-mediocreVlives ' of ‘the .crushing 
dreariness.of existence.”
. The' modem generation'is not a6..bad as alt 
that. There are some individuals that the edi­
torial. may, apbly to, .but on- the .whole, -the 
modem generation is not so terribly evil. There 
has-álways been vice; without evil there would 
be iio good; But why condemn the whole gen­
eration for the deeds of the few t.
•: All óyer the country mothers are- reading his 
editorial..,* Perhaps some may believe it.' I 
most certainly would hot have my mother-be? 
lieve such things about myself or my associates. 
I would not have her think that all her teaching, 
her good influence, has been of no avail. ' 
THEREFORE, I PROTEST AGAINST THE 
UNENDING PUBLIC EXAGGERATIONS OF THE VICES OF THE MODERN GENERA­
TION.' , .
RRR V V 1T 8R jR
RESULTS ÖF 
THE FRENCH 
ELECTIONS
Recent Elections Show 
Gains in Both Houses by the 
Liberal Left Wing Parties
BRI ANDISTS WIN
Art Begs to be Excused From All Specific (
Sociological Accountability and the Reformers
(From.the Nation.) •.The artista* replies to'i the New Masses Questionnaire are not of a . 'sort to bring great comfort to those who. woiild make art the hand- ; maiden of ' reiyolutioc. Fourteen ¦writers, replied to .a series a care­
fully' . formulated.' queries, and though. ail, wlt£ one exception; be- 
loi^e mor^' ór leBB.’vaguely to the left wiiig rather than to the rights not even Upton' Sinclair answered .with' a1 direct afllrmallve;!to the <iuestlóu' ''May society properly de­mand .'of'.the artist . .'..the tranavaluatlon ¦ of Values?" Three of the ten. who. answered another specific question called'American culture ‘‘decadont;" several con­
fessed a marked bios .in favor' of the revolutionary labor movement;^ and several expressed an interat In “the machine age;’.' but oso and all revealed the . Immemorial ten* dency of the arttat to shy at the "demands of society/: 'This Istoo esoteric for. me.* comments Stuart Chase: "I do. not tblnk it will do society any good to de­mand." replies Joseph Kmtch: "It would have ita nerve.” says Hey- wood Broun: ••••i|eU!’7’ exclaims 
Gonevleve Taggard:-and most of the rest—Robinson Jeffers. Babet- ts Deutach, Van Wyck Brooke, and Waldo Frank—reply In slmllarr laahton.' At any pavtUular period . they might; io Uielr. answers imply.: Had themselves In sympathy with the ''Ins’* orfwlth -(he'.”0uta."-but they ^sk to be eicused from.speci­fic sociological- accountaUllty"and ' Ihey prey to. bo^saved froai their 
retormer-frienda--- • • Yet none of.thete .writers can be 
Impatiently swept aside . aa .an f dilettante.: Not ono i.to any longing, for the 
' Ivory tower;'DQt'0ne‘li-:e08cemed -with -an ,"escape;^: and .not: onn ask» 'to be allowed to remain dreamy over the past Nothin* in áUttrteü
of art as a function of life, aa of something which: draws ite mater­ials-from contemporary existence and. in.' turn, modifies the form which that .existence takes; with* out exception' their, ideal Implies revolution-and change. Yet they 
will not and cannot deAue their .conception cf their function jn-any terms, satisfactory to ihoeo whose coajcem wjth; . social xotprm. Is more . immediate and direct. As one -reads /theiT responses . one-, is led to suspect that triumphant rev- oiution-wiU be as distrustful of the artieis produced under it as other societies ;have‘ generally been of their own stepchildren 'and one ia reminded of the'fact that though the radical is fond of charging, that- the artist of the past hoa persls- tenllÿ truckled to capitalism and reaction, at least .the capltallat and the- recaUonarp' have not -ùsualiy thought so.At bottom, porhaps. the cause'of the quarrel lies in the fact.that the, artlat has always • demanded more -freedom (and more thoroughness than the reformer, thinks oltber neceBsary.cr-adviaable;- -The fear of practical consequences la not ao Immediately.before^hls eyes and he Is not. so Impatient- He loves to reopen questions which the re- fonner.-thinis .cloned and-to. dwell Upon the little !lrOnles which, the refermer; wouTd rather beep hidden. Interested In perfection rather than •workable: compromise;; sacrificing 
even loyalty, to. Insight, he If* dis­trustful of - all- -Orthodoxies and he- loves-to express-the protest or.'the aspiration- which P can hardly be got Into the.form of an argument In his.heart he taevor.believes that any>phtloBophy confine.the:whole- truth.- and hls deareet concern- is always.-wlth'-.ih* -things-.which- of-, fldal. propoeltlona-la^ve: out ;. -Al­ways feeling himself . jUHtlOed. he woold.’ neverthelaaa.- rather- thumb at-Berloue PeOpIe aad call•as. ;WlUu»t «xeapUdK they^think | his trade RAINA than ba called up-
on to justify himself. before any court, and he always pleads for a change of .venue. ' At his feeblest he ia a ùseful safety-valve afford; ing, a- harmless outlet for unregen- erate impulses - which, It totally- suppressed; might blow ua all up; at his best he perceives truthB still too nebulous to be defined or defended. '
Back in the Middle Ages, when 
all .thd T.’orld was aa orthodox as 
any reformer can ever hope make it again, the artist used his freedom to keep aliye, for example) that,faith In''the. worth of the world and the flesh.which both scholar­ship and authority, would have ut­terly crushed, and he was able to do it because even when he gave his alleglancc to the. church'he somehow managed not to 'comply with, the splrlt of its demands. And the- chances are that when that
when the- revolution is complet« and all that the reformer nera hopes for has been obtained, the artist wUl-still be found occupying hlmaelf wlth < things’ which are aa undreamed of In the Revolutionist Handbook at romantic love w the Summa Theologla.
- Reform roogh-hews :sòclety. and art ie always more or lesa temptuoue of Its: summary through useful - labore.. ^You - do i’càir work." It says.. “let me . do mine. On the whole I-prefer:-an avowed çnemy to the friend who would de-
own'klnd.“-
--Ninety treehmen of the Western Reserve - Unlverelty were kidnap* ed. .taken In can to a-ban. strip­ed. and palatad: green by aophomovM' last week. Protesting 
freebmea were , tlvaa a Wood coat
For the First Tima a Socialist 
la Bleated as President 
of the Chamber. )
-ylng clothes, 
follow, bis pre- itJnue to tweak the iur little present-day Wag- and Zolas and John Stuart and to snigger at tfie.verses >f our diluted Emily Dickinsons ind. ahrlvelled 'WhUmens. and to tell tbe dreadful things they have found out about onr Lilliputian 
Poes.They will spoil our.pleasures by proving how shabby, our heroes really are; they will point .out that there Is' something terrible the matter with .them; they will show that they are-' afflicted with psy- cha9thenla, neurasthenia, vlgilam- bUsin and synkinesia; paramimia and sympathicotonia'; hoprolalia, echolalla, pseudolalla, verbigera­tion and anorexlaj arlthmomanla, snthropophobla, astasla-abasla, ach- romotopsia, noo-thymopsychlc, noo- 
thymopsychla' ataxia, opbthalmo- pleglc-onomatomania,- opisthotonus 
and .the Babinskl toe.Those, who do not specialize In the aggrandizement of tbe psyebop- ath'ological vocabulary by means of horrendous Greeclems, make u their laCk'.in other wayc. Sot them compensate by saying things they shouldn't, and screamln loudly and using, bright green; co^ 
2fs for':their magazines;, others rely upon Purltanoceh'trlcU'm -and academic ivy. ' Jt does not matter— they ore all critics; they are all ex­
cellent in .their place; . but they keep forgeuini bow' small a'ploce 
It .really Is. '.-I shall now:-proceed to criticise 
tbe work of Algernon Charles Swin­burne. Have you noticed that be does not say a great dealT Are you aware of. the fact that his poems are deficieht-Jn meinlnjg?.. Do you know that In 18G6 he was consider­ed Immoral? Would It not be val­uable to remember that he overdoes 
alliteration, and that .li yon read loo much of bim you will become satiated? Had. you not better be apprised .of .the -limitation, of hlfl
o cabula ry? Did 2r realis
that one, at ledet; of the following 
list of words occurs on e7ery page 
or his poems?.Love, Ups, klBses,. froth, foam, fire, flowers, fruit, feet, pain, etiog, thunder, storm, dreams, death, wan,
eiohtHad :t better 1
“Atalantaformefl that bis poei dren are not as good a in <Ualydon>r Surely you n< 
noticed, that his rime schemes of ter'quite dlfforent from' ' 
other, and that, éome of thorn quite hew?4 And were you, until- now, in possession of the Informt Hoc that some of hla lipes have a many as seventeen sylldbles?- Then turn to tbe back of that scholarly edition of. biB poems, with 
an Introduction and notes by. Herr Dokton Slbrandus Schnafnabargei slue—that Invaluable edIUon. with the Herr -Dokto’s name in pur< gold leaf on .. the coyer; turn t< those notes, read them through; 
they are ,the moist authoritative; they oré Indispensable; you not get along without them. ' But while you are .perusing them, and finding out that the poet’ red, and; that his head was .really too large.-, for hls tlody, ihe’f clear flame of his genius will go on burn­ing; and neither/ you;, nor Il'-n'oi 
Slbrandus 6chnafnaburgen9lus can queuch It. /
There appsais to be a gradual Shift of French politics toward the ' left. The elections held iabout two weeks ago showed some further 
gain In the number of seats held by these groups In botb JiouBes 
This does' not, meui^that. there .will be an %lmmedlate'--fall - of p the. Ppln-care-igoyernmeht, aa the various 
political’groups feel that the prea ent admlnlstratlon'shouldv.contlnuc in * power' ' until France ls in * stronger: flnanclol position.' A1 though there Is still a .fight be­tween: the liberal l^it and the servative Right, these dlffereaces have been removed from. the 
ter of the Bta^e because' of the ab- Bolute necessity, of political co­operation. to 6aye France from •beinkruptcy.For the-first time a Socialist was elected as -the -President loi’the Chamber. The new 'President, 
feidioand .BulSBon; ;isckn6wa-’to .be- a ''Locarnoistv and beac^eVa ati^qg supporter’ bf - Foreign ..Minister - Brl- and. His :elec'UCn was considered as a decided victory of the Brland- lsts over tbe Polncarlsts.
. The differences in the politics of' the Left and the Right may be7 de­scribed briefly. The Led parties stand for Brland’s Locarno policy and fcr further arrangements with 'Germany which are thought to be to the mutual benefit of .both 'coun­tries. for stabilization.of-the.franc at its present value and, the-cut- ting of past losses, and'for ratifica­tion of tbe foreignu debts settle­ments so as to enable further Ioan6 to b^ -ralsed for the purpost of stabilization.' The Right parties are susplctous of Locarno, undecid <«d as to stabilization or revalue tlon and decidedly,' opposed to debt settlement ratification until then are some revisions downward Of debt estimates.: The biggest problem o:..slop,, will .-be khe financial- situa­
tion, and the success of the pre£- opt legislature will depend largely on the outcome of this questional 
was calculated in the lobbies that ratification of tiie Berenger debt agreement has -now an ¿ven cbancc of adoption with a large part of the Chamber abstalhlng from voting. The chances are-fur­ther Improved because France must within a short period have recourse to outside credits!'.'Whereas the Socialists made.the remarkable record' of gaining ten new seats without-the lose of one, the Radical Socialists did not fare at all . well, winning only five /and losing seven.*
Coiitrifes and Comments
General < best of
ARTS PLÄYS
A REVIEW J
"SPIRES"All that we had .anticipated In --Spires- - seemed - to be forthcom­ing in the. earl) part of the pUy.- As we sac in the Little Theater we felt more and more as the play progressed that, - while : not-the great American drama, here at was an • - evening of- wòrth-
tbe -Splresr.crashe^ to the ground in splintered .wreckage—and feven . Mr. Wallace's fine directorial touch could not keep the audience from snickering at the farce of It- • . In a mld-Westeni city. Rev. iHsd- ley lires wlth his three daughters. a:repreeentatlve family group: all living normet, lote resting -lives. There Js.a, project*to.build a>new. chnrCh from the funds of a ques- tlOasble Ainknown-doner who- has stipulated that Rev. Hadley be the minister., The architect.is. a. for* aier resident of the Iowa, who has had a lialM.with one of the >mln- Istera : daughtot« living in iNew ^Tork. Another daughter Is. en- -gaged 0>:a atrafgllng yottag achl-
Editor Carnegie Tartan.
Dear Sir: •
I noticed in laat week;? edi­torial colun^n a-plea, for letterd commenting on - General Assembly' an(1:1 was aronsed to sucb-'a writ­
ing fervor tbat.l took pen in hand and put down the following com-
v. The - argument aboi Assembly appears, to my knowledge, in January of every othor year, and disappears about 
the end of February, with nothing dono -ibout.lt. On. each and overy 
occasion the same old quesUon ie. asked. "What is tho matter with General Assemblies?'* and bach time the sages of the-achool shake their beads, dolefully and reply tbat Assemblies, - like the famous Olu Gray'Mare, are'not what they'
'¦ I have "attended "Cariwgie Gen­eral' ftseemblies somewhat .regular­ly for the oast four' years, and‘in 
my opinion these affairs never did Amount to much, but they are im­proving each year.
It 1^ a geneinlly accepted theory that a gathering together of the
:udent jbody Is very.de­sirable • in ‘ order..- to maJlntain icbool spirit. I heartily agree with thjs th.0017, and would'like to see euch - an - affair-' oven* ' two' weeks; 
'at'least'.-''' • ' ! ‘ :The chief fault to be found with Assemblies as presented this year, iteuess, of starting, and-ending.
tblrd of the' students'hasten down'to tbe music ball arriving, about a quarter of twelve, and 
ao wait for 15 minutes or til thi* rest arrive and the/pro- 
am starts;,and at the end of ey find that the lunch hour 13 about over..- Since.. adequate . taclUtlesi>f available; for, the\holdii___
lese. gatheringa' on the campus, saints that they must coutlnu«
I be held-at the .-music hall. ' i.then; that the.;program.b<
lect. A visitor in the household Is one Daphne Webb, of. i wealth and few morals. When Rev.' Hadley' decldes:to; Jcave '.the church,''these people find - them­selves Involved’ in personal and social problems, which, pyramid to a climax wherein all Is revealed to the mlnleter.It Is at ' this' .point that Mrs. Southgate proved herself less of a aiamatlst than «e had given her credit for. She - built herplay with careful sensible steps tbi gave promise of a briUIant denou meat. Bxit, as if exhausted by the strain •’ of '' writing thus; far, she threw reason to the winds, and ended her play' in' a caprice of ideas entirely unfitted to rest of the Plot. We do not believe that human beings behave so altogether Irrationally as that. If Mrs. South­gate rewrites the denouement with & more natural resolution of the problems, Bhe will heighten the in-t imm•ably.so jincensed at. Mrs. Southgate that we have almost for- gotten Just how: tho performances
have'a very persistent Impression that Thomas Lewis was - outstand­ing. ' He was a-bit too exuberant at the beginning and, for some rect- son, a bit awkward In love' scenes, but there was much merit 1n his performance. A great deal may be expected front bim la the future, providing gooii ' luck brlngs< him suitable parte and Intelligent' di­rectors. Irene Koslnskl, tli toxicated 'dealist, had- manj mlrable scenes, too.
; (Continued From 'Page One) paid. Payments may: be made to the cashier, -in. .the-registration schedule, of- laboratory.,charges Is schedule- of: laboratorv. charge ls posted - on -the - official - bulletin boards.- and is published In . the catalog of each college. . '
.. Rcgulat . day students - register­ing later • than the • official'dateB given above are subject to the lat* 
reglstmtlon fine of $1.00 per dav to a . .maximum of - |10.00: (Saturday and <SUnday. not Included):
Students are required to .regie- .ter ¦ Inperson.'^Registratlon.by proxy Is. not permuted.’ :.v.:• All pflrt-tlme studentt who are registered: during the first semes­ter . In courses., in -Normal - Art- or Muelc (Group A). and who.wlsh to
started'. promptly 
twelve.-nnd end prottq&ly afrtwei ly after. Fifteen minutes Is amp! 
timé to get to tho ball from an .spot on the campus, and with as? aurance of a good prograi time tó eat lunch, a much better turnout of students could be ejc- pectod.
12:00); an& on ,Weekday evening* (except.Saturday) .from. 7:00 to-.-*:00 p. ml' Such students 
present at registration a schedule card for the second 'semester which has beea approved by the depart­ment giving the InstVuction. There is no re-registration in the case of electives (nlgrit counuis) or Group C subjects (Saturday courses for high'Echcol students);Ninety new-students-have slgni-
SIGRID ONEGIN
Mme. Slgrid Oneglp, who comes; n (^fne^.Mualc Hall .*>n- Tiie8; 
Iny 'evenliig, February 1, arrived 
o America recently and her. first ppcoranoe this season. was ‘in Philadelphia, -where tbe; critics 
•nee mere gave ' great praise to ier voice and pereonallty. This irtlst wbo ?Ives the program .at 
the fourth of the Edltb . Taylor homson Concerts has In; hor :rap book' copies of newspaper articles which reveal superlatives from every, city whore 6he bas-Ap^ pear ad. • In New'York, for:'in.; ataitco; -‘•superb’" appearedr.ln al- 
lost • every' review accorded • her. In Chicago sbe was called ‘'unbe­lievable" and in Bo6ton it was said that .‘.‘people would flock to her concerts if 'ahe did nothing 
ier . concerts If she«thing but sing scales andarpeggiop.'.' In Philadelphia was' acclaimed as : contralto ' Philadelphia has 
heard" and In Brooklyn, tho 
dc that “Onegin’s is oi ioBt glorious and ample voices heard bere In years.1’ SV Louie, Milwaukee, Minneapolis,' and every 
ither large city where she has ap poared bavo'said the most glowing things -about; her voice'.and.,,pei sonality^ but It remained' for a 
original writer In'Pittsburgh ’ t refer to her as* the “Chaliapin', of contraltos." Mme. Onegin . will give to Pittsburgh program nui 
bers which are seldom beard ai her coming promises to attract large audience.Haecdol—Scene from Hercules.Where Shall I Fly.
Haydn— ’The Wanderer.Opbolla.Piercing Eyes.Carl Loews—: .Der h^lllge Franslskus. Walpur9ts-.:Nacht;• • Der. Tptentanz.Charles T.: Qriffea—: The. Lament of Ian the Proud. Sidney Hoinwe—Two Children's Songs: .(a) In? a Meadow.. lb; Mix a Pancake.?X>nlsetli—Recitative and Aria: Dear'eBt Fernando trom La Favorlta.
series at Syria Mo*io« BMt Frt. rday nlgbt, January.»,, and Bttur- dMV'aftwnoon, January 29. Great interest la. manifest in. these ints,, for. they wJU also mark the 
fáretvéíl appearances of Damrwch 
In Plttsbtirgb as . the regular: con­ductor . of . 'this - orchestra.. Dam- irh resigned.recently., to take-éf- 
:t ^at tb¿;'.üpB©;'.«;.tt?^resent’1 season. Tho Friday evening pro-’ will be composed of Tschaí- kowsky and Wagnerian numbers, 
tbe Saturday,matinee'will fea> Dvorak’s ••'New;.World” Sym­phony. The programs;..
Friday Night. ’
Symphony Op. 5, In E minor...... TsctmlkowBby Wagnerian nurabeTS-—'
Entrance ot the ’Gods intio Val- balín, from ."RhelogoldJ" . 
ítide ‘of'the;VántyrÍ4M.'-Írom' **Wal- •kuere."’"•* 'Prize stfng and Dance of the. Ap> ntlces, from “Die Melster*singer.1Excerpts from.. "Tristan and 
ilde” Prelude Act’ III. Saturday Matinee. - 
Overtrure. Lo Rol d’Ya..... ^ .LaloSymphony in B minor. “From the 
New ^erld" ..........DvorakLalderonette—Bmprcss of the 
Statuettee ...........r.. RavelEntrance of the Little Fauns...
................................ PlemeLa Nult En6orcolea.Cbopin-Aubert Adagla for Strings.........LekeuMarch Slav ...;----Tschalkowsky
PLE8E3 BANQUET-AT .' ' SAUNDERS INN QUITEUNMOLE6TED! BY GOPH»
(Continued From Fage One) feelings by.ewearlug. Everything considered the. sophomores art» to be congratulated on their .success (?) in tbs breaking up of the ban- . queL knowirg all about the affair at noon they probably thought the 
passing of C-3. was,more Import­ant than the rescue oi thalr presi­
dent.It was 11 o'clock when the plebes laden down with dlsbeB. 
spoons, and. similar trophys ar­rived -homo. The nlghts-enter- .talnmenr -fUrniehed many '.with; plenty of. material to^wrtto^ta ^11 - the fellows i»ack home'about.''
NEW YORK SYMPHONY
' ;WalterI)amroBch', dean .of. Amer­ican conductors, will bring, hla New York Orchestra lo Pittsburgh 
for the flfth palr of concerts Jn the
Intense rivalry in Interclaas rushes at John Carroll University 
resulted in the diBconuouance or classes from Wednesday to Mon­day; Sophomores and: freshmen, 
participants .In the rnsheb which have included numerous kidnapp­ings! were called before the-dean to explain, the vlolstlon of .the' promises . to^.the -univprsliy>,auT -thoriiles that class' 'attendance would not be endangered by "the annual' fight between the. two
becom >urseè:'-"This Isfled' their de; rolled in varlou 
an Increase'of 50 per: last year's mid-term enrollmei Many of the new students are < teriag with advance'd standing.
FORMER HEAD HOUSEHOLD
ECONOMIC DEP*T MAKES .
INTERESTING POOD SURVEY
(Continued From Page One) 
of tiie seller and the consumer., 
“New York housewives must learn bow to choose and how to.prepare good-foods. And they are doing it. . Education along this line by the lieaitli Department 'and other media is helping materially.!’ .Not content with studying, con­ditions in tbe United States, Miss Cauble made a food survey of l«n- don at the request of Cyril Cobb,-, president of the London County Council.“On one occasion," she says. In her. description of events in Eng­land. “we. drove to a liouse on Pet* ticoat lane,, where I wus told, we were to stop for a glass of milk.
lethlug i aitaiIt was II nilk stallo!lo say the least.
.. . -And when I asked-.why - it < was not.-abollshdd I was told that many' 
years ago. King John-rode by tbe spot rat a moment when be'was: 
Ured andsthlrety. At (hat time it was. a field and in. it grazed seven cows.. A- woman brought'him a mug of milk. .- And he decreed, as kings had a way of dolng that for- even-there should be sevonv cows there - so that::-tired - passeraby might, stop for a glass of milk..;. Jin .the,.meantime, many^ vears 
•have parsed, but the decree all» stands.- and tfce. voman^who Uved nt the.ocine nbW stlU baa lhe'rlght lo keep her seven cows-aod-serve officials can- t H. In: New Yoric - our .- elty - ~baa - police' power and the law can take Ua course ;That s why we can have good
» anything ¦
JOSEPHtt*NE0O
Store for Men and Young Fallows ,
Super-Six Shoes
$6oo
Here’s the “Varsity”
—a broad-ftoed, bluchcr-cut, gracefully-pat­
terned shoe with soft.toe-boX, overweight 
tap soles and broad-flanged leather heels; 
Tan or black. . Oiie of the Super-Six models 
at $6.00.
Strate-Eight Shoes, $8.00 
Nu-Roy Shoes, $10.00 
Banister Shoes» $13.00
Jiome's, Third FJoór
After-shaving comfort
^ TTOW do you fit your newly-shaven 
XX face to1 the ngors of an academic 
day? Some men just wash off the lather 
with water. Others in gro^ying-numbers use 
Aqua Velva, William? new1 scientific after­
shaving liquid It helps the skin retain its 
needed natural moi tufe—keeps the com­
fort of a William shave all <lay long. Big 
f-ounce bottles, 50c.
Williams Aqua Velvet
