Volume 91, Issue 20Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190617 March 1997
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Diversions Editor
After an administrative hear­
ing in mid-February, the admin­
istration decided that the Kappa 
Sigma fraternity violated the 
terms of their housing lease by 
breaking University regula­
tions. Currently, the fraternity 
will not be able to reside in Uni­
versity housing next fall. The 
fraternity is appealing the 
administration’s decision.
“As a result of an administra­
tive hearing, Dean Murphy came 
to the conclusion that our lease 
has been violated and we are cur­
rently in the appeals process,” 
said John Klein, president of 
Kappa Sigma, a junior majoring 
in chemical engineering. Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs 
and Dean Allison, coordinator of 
student life for Greek Affairs, both 
refused comment.
Tim Michaels, director of 
Housing and a member of 
the administrative review 
board, said, “Until [Dean 
Murphy’s decision] is final­
ized, I’m assuming they will 
be staying on campus.”
According to Klein, 
Murphy’s decision about 
the fraternity stems from 
an incident that occurred 
on pledge night when an 
individual had to be sent to 
the hospital. According to 
Campus Police logs for Sep­
tember 13, 1996, Campus 
Police was called to Kappa 
Sigma at 8:18 pm. Campus 
Police classify the event as 
a “liquor laws violation” 
and will give no further de­
tails. The incident is still
under investigation.
According to. the fraternity 
housing lease, “The fraternity 
covenants and agrees to not use 
or permit the use of leased pre­
mises in such a way as to violate 
any laws or University rules and 
regulations.”
A date has not yet been set 
for the appeals hearing, but 
Klein anticipates the meeting 
will take place within the next 
week or two.
Kappa Sigma’s national orga­
nization suspended the chapter 
but took no action to remove the 
fraternity from the campus. 
Mitchell Wilson, executive direc­
tor of Kappa Sigma national, 
would not identify the specific 
terms of the suspension but did 
note that Kappa Sigma has al­
ready begun to fulfill these re­
quirements. “The chapter has been 
suspended and is under alumni 
Please see KAPPA S1G, page 3
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photo Manager 
The University has plans to remove 
Kappa Sigma from the fraternity quad.
Inside
Calendar.........................................................................L10
Classified.............................................................................9
Comics..............................................................................L4
Diversions......................................................................L7
Living...............................................................................LI
Forum......................................................................................4
Sports..............................................................!.............'....7
Features
Check out On Campus
• see page L2
Forum
Go ape over cloning!
• see page 5
Diversions
Celebrate Jill Watson
• see page L 7THE TARTÁN
PleasKsASA 
1lGle ,ApG
gleA3llW eARlGSaesRaS DpSAMAGaJ OEeSa Orlle
First floor provides new location for Child Care Center
Sing it loud...kpqqp uEKMp 
rlSAS 1lsSEGK
Frat violates housing lease
By ELLEN BELDNER
fartan Assistant News Editor
; IfCMU was suddenly transported back 
;to the fifteenth century, Dr. Irene 
¦Fonseca, professor of Mathematics and 
associate dean of MCS, would be a knight.
; On March 9, the President of Portugal 
designated Fonseca a Grande Oficial da 
Ordem de Santiago da Espada (Grand 
Official of the Order of Saint Santiago of 
the Sword), the highest honor awarded 
by the Portuguese government for 
achievements in the arts, sciences, and 
humanities.
In medieval times, the order was con­
ferred upon knights.
; “Now there are no more knights, of 
course. I am not a knight,” said Fonseca. 
"But I’ll have to sign some documents 
where I swear that I will follow the rules 
of the order—so it’s like a knight in that 
you have rules that you have to abide by. 
In particular, you have to give prestige 
to the order.”
Fonseca received the award primarily 
for her ongoing, exceptional work in both 
Mathematical research and in promot­
ing and organizing science in Europe. 
She helps establish European research 
Programs and evaluations for funding 
^quests, in a manner similar to the 
United States’ National Science Foun­
dation. Primarily, she organizes advi­
sory boards that distribute funds to 
¡Various researchers and organizations 
in Europe.
* Fonseca’s research at CMU focuses on 
Please see AWARD, page 3
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photo Manager
Sigma Nu (left) and Sigma Alpha Epsilon (right) participated in the Greek Sing Competition last Saturday night in Soldiers and Sailors 
Memorial Hall. Please see related article on page LI.
,lsDrA MptleS rlSA eAKESaepaElG qeEleEac
By RYAN SCHILLING
Tartan Staffwriter
Students with double majors 
and minors will no longer have 
priority over non-majors when 
registering for required classes. 
This new policy, voted on by the
Claudia Kirkpatrick, academic 
advisor for Industrial Manage­
ment, a department that cur­
rently gives priority to minors 
and double majors, said, “I think 
that what the University has done 
is to weigh, rather carefully, the 
notion of, ‘What do we want to
H&SS was not pleased with this de­
velopmentbut we were simply out­
voted.
— Peter Stearns, Dean of H&SS
Board of Deans last fall, will be 
enacted by spring of 1998.
; “A major reason for this is to 
make sure that primary majors 
¿et the classes they need to gradu­
ate,” said John Papinchak, co- 
director of enrollment services.
provide for the students?’ We’re 
not clear if we have the resources 
here to provide everyone with two 
or three majors, and also we’re 
not sure if we would want to do 
that or encourage that.” 
Currently, students get prior­
ity depending on their depart­
ment. For some, this new policy 
will mean no change at all, but 
for departments that do give pri­
ority to double majors, such as all 
H&SS departments, it will have 
a lasting effect.
“H&SS was not pleased with 
this development, but we were 
simply outvoted. There are a lot 
of students who take double ma­
jors in H&SS, and we feel it has 
been an important aspect of 
CMU,” said Peter Steams, dean 
of H&SS. The proposition that 
departments continue to decide 
on this matter autonomously was 
also voted down.
“What the University has tried 
to do is come up with a way of 
standardizing so that everyone is 
treated equally. If you give double 
majors priority, what would even­
tually happen, and we have dis­
cussed this with other universi­
ties who use phone registra­
tion, is that everyone would be 
signing up for a double major in 
a particular department where 
there may be a high-demand 
course, and then afterward 
dropping the double major,” 
Papinchak said.
This addresses something 
that has not been a problem for 
departments who give priority 
to double majors. “I don’t know 
of any student who’s done that,” 
said Kirkpatrick..“I do know of 
students who have applied for 
minors with that in mind, but 
the data suggests in our de­
partment that well over 90 per­
cent of the students who sign 
up for the double major or the 
minor complete a program with 
us. So although people in the 
university have worried about 
that, the data does not reflect 
Please see MAJORS, page 3
Brian umun/ larian moto stan 
Morewood Gardens is being renovated to make accomodate the child care center.
By JAYA SAXENA
Tartan Staffwriter
Construction is underway on the 
ground floor of Morewood Gardens in 
preparation for the relocation of the 
CMU Child Care Center to this newly 
renovated area. Renovation for the new 
child care facility began on March 1 and 
is scheduled to be completed by August 
15. As a result of this change, the center’s 
current location in the basement of 
Morewood Gardens will be available for 
student use.
The new 9500 square foot facility will 
accommodate five classrooms, one-way 
observation windows for students to
view into classrooms, administrative 
offices, a piazza or general use area, 
dining area and kitchen, staff lounge, 
conference area, and an atelier, which 
is a room similar to an art studio.
The piazza will serve as a central 
meeting place for parents, teachers and 
children, and the atelier will serve as a 
studio for the children to pursue project 
work and as “The Center for Collabora­
tive Learning.”
The primary organizing team for the 
project is comprised of Marsha Poster, 
executive director of the CMU Child 
Care Center, Alan Schlossberg, project 
manager for Perkins Eastman Archi- 
Please see MOREWOOD, page 3
Greeks request recognition from Student Senate
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate discussed two pro­
posals to change Senate bylaws to 
allow fraternities and sororities to be 
recognized by Student Government 
at this past Thursday’s meeting.
Both proposals will be debated and 
voted on at next Thursday’s Student 
Senate meeting.
Currently Student Senate can only 
deal with Greek Council. Both pro­
posals delete this rule. The first pro­
posal would let fraternities and so­
rorities apply for funded or non­
funded status. The second proposal only 
allows non-funded recognition.
“As far as I know, the Greek organiza­
tions at CMU have never asked for Ac­
tivities Fee money before. The directive 
was initiated because increased costs of 
living and rent have forced the fraterni­
ties to seek alternative methods of mak­
ing ends meet. These increased expenses 
draw money from participation in cam­
pus-wide events (i.e. Booth and Buggy) 
and philanthropic events,” said Eric 
Grant, InterFraternity Council presi­
dent, a junior IDS/political science ma­
jor and the author of the first proposal.
Many of the questions asked at the
meeting related to the eligibility of fra­
ternities and sororities for funding. There 
were questions on whether they would 
be considered discriminatory organiza­
tions and thus wouldn’t qualify for fund­
ing or recognition.
“I feel that funding the Greek system 
as it currently stands would violate the 
open membership policies of student 
government. One of the great things 
about our Activities Fee is that anyone 
can participate in anything that the fee 
supports,” said Senator Michael 
Rosenthal, a senior computer science 
major. “The inclusion of the Greek sys­
tem would violate this philosophy since
fraternity and sorority membership 
is by invitation only.”
Student Body President Bryon 
Krug, a junior electrical and com­
puter engineering major, presented 
the second proposal at the meeting.
“This proposal separates the fund- 
ingissuefrom the recognition issue. A 
lot of senators were concerned about 
funding organizations with exclusive 
membership. Student Government 
could always choose to change its fis­
cal policy in the future and begin 
funding exclusive organizations, but 
this proposal will do nothing to change 
Please see GREEKS, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

oThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 1997
• • •
Soldier kills seven 
Israeli schoolgirls
NAHARAYIM, Jordan, March 13 
(AP) — Grabbing a comrade’s assault 
rifle, a Jordanian soldier fired on Is­
raeli junior high school girls taking a 
field trip Thursday to a Jordan River 
island known as a symbol of Mideast 
peace. Seven girls were killed and six 
were wounded.
Still shooting, the gunman chased 
the screaming students down a grassy 
river embankment while his fellow sol­
diers yelled “Madman, madman” be­
fore overpowering him. He was in the 
custody of Jordanian security officials.
It was unclear whether the gunman, 
22-year-old army driver Lance Cpl. 
Ahmed Yousef Mustafa, had political 
motives or was mentally unstable. But 
the shooting on the island of 
Naharayim — known as the “Island of 
Peace” — came at a time of deep crisis 
between Israel and Jordan over the 
impasse in Mideast peacemaking.
Israeli leaders indirectly blamed 
Jordan’s King Hussein for creating the 
climate that made such violence pos­
sible. “Words and a difficult atmosphere 
can also lead to violence,” Defense Min­
ister Yitzhak Mordechai said.
Hussein bristled at suggestions that 
he was somehow responsible for the 
shooting, which he said was also 
“aimed at me, my children, the people 
of Jordan.”
Hussein said he called Netanyahu and 
asked to visit the families of the victims. 
“I cannot offer enough condolences or 
express enough personal sorrows to the 
mothers, fathers, and brothers of these 
children who fell today,” he said.
The shooting happened shortly af­
ter 11 am, when the students arrived 
at the border post. They were visiting 
Naharayim, a man-made island that 
Israel returned to Jordan under the 
two countries’ 1994 peace treaty. It is 
a popular tourist spot for Israelis, and 
a sign at the entrance reads “Island of 
Peace.” The gunman lived close by in 
the Jordanian town of South Shuna.
He had been sitting in his jeep when
courtesy of UPI 
Ahmed Mustafa killed seven girls.
the school bus pulled up on a grassy 
hill and about 40 eighth graders filed 
out to see the sweeping river valley 
view. Without warning, he grabbed an 
assault rifle from another soldier in 
the jeep and started shooting at the 
group of students.
“He came very close to us, face to 
face,” said teacher Rosa Chemy. “He 
continued to fire, except at the moment 
when his ammunition clip finished.” 
“We all panicked,” said Oranit 
Burgauker, 13, who was shot in the 
shoulder. “We were on the hill, and 
everyone started running down. Every­
one lay down so they wouldn’t be hit.” 
The girls were taken to hospitals in 
Jordan and Israel; two died in Israel, 
and five died on the bumpy 15-minute 
ride to Jordan’s Shuna Hospital.
Dozens of Jordanian farmers in tra­
ditional robes and red headdresses 
crammed into the hospital to donate 
blood. Some of the donated blood was 
used to help save an Israeli girl who 
had a bullet removed from her chest.
Ibrahim Alayan, 33, was one of the 
farmers in line.
“We are at peace,” he said as he 
waited. “There should not be killing 
and such agony.”
Photo courtesy of Reuters
Jordan's Crown Prince Hassan (R) offers condolences to Israeli Defense Minister 
Yitzhak Mordechai over the deaths of seven Israeli schoolgirls.
Pour-Day Forecast
Tuesday
aOO
1 Showers.
^ Hi 42 Lo 33
WednesdaySnow.
Hi 30 Lo 29
ThursdayOvercast.
Hi 41 Lo 30
Friday Cloudy.
—% Hi 49 Lo 27
Missile possibly 
downed TWA nii
NEW YORK, March 14 (AP) — The 
FBI agent in charge of the TWA Flight 
800 investigation has acknowledged for 
the first time that a shoulder-fired mis­
sile could have downed the jetliner.
James Kallstrom said there was no 
such evidence of such an attack, and 
condemned renewed claims that the jet 
was struck by a U.S. military missile.
“This terrible, terrible tragedy was 
not caused by our military,” Kallstrom 
said Thursday. “Our military, in par­
ticular the Navy divers, are the heroes of 
this operation — not the culprits.” 
Investigators have focused on three 
possible explanations for the July 17 
disaster that killed all 230 people aboard: 
a bomb, a missile, or mechanical failure.
Kallstrom said that it is “technically 
possible” a terrorist using a shoulder- 
fired, Stinger-type missile could have 
shot down the plane. He said investiga­
tors are examining the possibility al­
though there is no evidence to support it 
over other theories.
He noted that similar missiles have 
been used to down more than 25 com­
mercial planes over the past two de­
cades in Africa, the Middle East, and the 
former Soviet Union. Stinger-type mis­
siles are designed to shoot down planes.
He would not elaborate on where a 
missile could have been fired from to hit 
Flight 800, which was 10 miles off­
shore and more than 13,000 feet high 
after taking off from New York’s 
Kennedy Airport.
The missile theory has been bolstered 
by people who reported seeing some­
thing in the sky before the disaster. 
Kallstrom said there were too many 
people who described “strange events 
like flares and streaks of light in the 
sky” to ignore the possibility of a missile.
However, Kallstrom said investiga­
tors long ago eliminated any “friendly 
fire” scenarios or a military cover-up as 
suggested by Pierre Salinger, a former 
ABC newsman and press secretary to 
President Kennedy.
Salinger offered an expanded ver­
sion Thursday of his theory that a 
Navy missile shot down the jet. At a 
Paris news conference, he released a 
69-page document and a set of radar 
images from a video.
Operation repairs 
Clinton’s tendon
BETHESDA, Md., March 14 (AP) — 
Surgeons repaired a painful torn knee 
tendon in President Clinton’s right leg 
Friday after a freak middle-of-the-night 
accident at the Florida home of golfer 
Greg Norman. The President will hobble 
on crutches for eight weeks or so and 
undergo months of physical therapy.
“We were very happy with our repair,” 
the chief surgeon said.
“I feel great, they did a terrific job,” 
Clinton said after two hours and four 
minutes of surgery. “I just had an un­
lucky break.” He said he would go ahead 
with plans for a trip to Finland next week 
for a summit withRussian President Boris 
Yeltsin although his doctors did not seem 
enthusiastic about his decision.
“He has an excellent chance to regain
Carnegie Almanac
full motion in his knee,” said Dr. David 
Adkison, though he added that the tear 
was more complex than normal for such 
an injury. He said it would be perhaps 
six months before the President would 
regain full use of his leg—and even then 
it may not be the same.
“He wants to know when he can swing 
a golf club,” Adkison said. “We’ll see.”
Clinton is expected to remain in the 
hospital until Sunday.
Apple announces 
plans to downsize
SAN JOSE, Calif., March 14 (AP)—In 
a dramatic bid to reverse its losses, 
Apple Computer said Friday it would cut 
4,100 employees — nearly a third of its 
work force—and scale back its Macintosh 
line of computers and software.
“We’ve made the right decision to fo­
cus our energies, and these decisions — 
I am absolutely convinced—will put us 
on the road back to health, and we’ll be 
looking at a very different situation over 
the next few quarters,” Apple chairman 
Gil Amelio said Friday.
Apple’s chronic losses and shrinking 
market share have forced it into a series 
of retrenchments that have so far failed 
to stop the slide. It has posted losses in 
four of the last five quarters, totaling 
$936 million.
While the personal computer pioneer 
still has big shares of the desktop pub­
lishing, Internet, and education mar­
kets, Apple’s share of the overall PC 
market fell from 7.9 percent to 5.2 per­
cent over the past year.
The company lost ground as rival PCs 
using Intel chips and Microsoft’s Win­
dows operating system became nearly 
as easy to use as Apple’s Macintosh. 
Apple also has been burdened with high 
costs because — uniquely among com­
puter makers — it makes both hard­
ware and software.
The Cupertino-based company, which 
employs 13,400 people, said the cuts of 
2,700 full-time workers and 1,400 part- 
time and contract employees would trim 
its bottom line this quarter by $155 
million. The goal of the cuts is to save 
$500 million in annual costs.
The company also said it would sim­
plify its offerings of Macintosh comput­
ers and Power Book laptops. It also would 
try to cut costs by using technologies 
developed by other companies instead of 
developing them on its own.
Apple said it would deliver its next- 
generation operating system, code- 
named Rhapsody, next year as planned. 
But it would cut spending on future 
upgrades of the Mac operating system, 
paring the number of new releases next 
year from two to one.
The company also cut 1,500 jobs last 
year as part of the restructuring imple­
mented by Amelio, who was hired 13 
months ago to turn the company around.
Industry analysts said the latest move 
indicated the previous steps didn’t work.
“It’s clear at this stage that if they’re 
going to survive, they have to focus more 
on two critical issues,” said Tim Bajarin, 
president of Creative Strategies Re­
search International in San Jose.
“They have to make sure they don’t 
lose any more customers, and they have 
to put a stake in the ground in areas 
where they already have market share.”
In December, Apple stunned the high- 
tech world by buying Next Software Inc. j 
to make its technology the basis of a new i 
operating system. The $430 million 
deal also brought back co-founder 
Steve Jobs, who started Next after his 
ouster from Apple in a boardroom 
power struggle in 1985.
Apple’s chief financial officer, Fred 
Anderson, said the $155 million restruc­
turing charge—most in connection with 
layoffs — would be in addition to $95 
million in charges for parts of the reor­
ganization announced last year but not 
yet carried out. The company will also 
take a charge of $300 million to $320 
million in connection with its purchase 
of Next Software Inc.
Supreme Court 
keeps sculpture
WASHINGTON, March 13 (AP) - 
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist says 
a sculpture of the prophet Mohammed 
will not be altered or removed from a 
marble frieze in the Supreme Court’s 
stately courtroom despite the protests of 
a Muslim group.
However, the court will change its 
literature describing the sculpture, the 
chief justice said in a letter released 
on Wednesday.
The Council on American-Islamic Re­
lations sent a message to court officials 
in February asking that the image of 
their prophet be removed.
The group said it recognized the 
court’s “positive intentions in the origi­
nal artwork,” but added, “Muslims are 
sensitive to created images of the 
Prophet Mohammed.”
It said the portrayal of the prophet 
holding a sword reflected stereotypes of 
Muslims as “intolerant conquerors.” And 
the group said it objected to court litera­
ture that called Mohammed the founder 
of Islam; instead, he is considered the 
last in a line of prophets.
In a letter to the group released 
Wednesday, Rehnquist said that al­
tering the frieze would harm its artis­
tic integrity.
“The depiction of Mohammed was in­
tended only to recognize him, among 
many other lawgivers, as an important 
figure in the history of law; it is not 
intended as a form of idol worship,” the 
chief justice’s letter said. Swords are 
used throughout the court’s architec­
ture as a symbol of justice, it added.
However, Rehnquist said the court’s 
literature will be changed to call 
Mohammed the prophet of Islam in­
stead of its founder.
It also will state that the sculpture “is 
a well-intentioned attempt by the sculp­
tor Adolph Weinman to honor 
Mohammed andit bears no resemblance 
to Mohammed. Muslims generally have 
a strong aversion to sculptured or pic­
tured representations of their Prophet.”
The council’s executive director, Nihad 
Awad, said Wednesday his organization 
was pleased with the decision to change 
the court’s literature but that “the main 
issue regarding the prophet’s image re­
mains unresolved.”
Awad said his group would be willing 
to pay to replace the sculpture of 
Mohammed with a marble piece show­
ing quotes from the Koran. Or, he said, 
the face could be sanded down.
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, March 18, 
1947 — Radio station WCAE an­
nounced plans to include 
Carnegie Tech’s contributions to 
Pittsburgh’s industries and cul­
ture in its “Know Your Pitts­
burgh” broadcasts throughout the 
month of April.
The broadcasts began with a 
segment on the contributions of 
Margaret Morrison graduates. 
Other broadcasts focused on the 
coal research laboratories, the 
metals research laboratory, and 
contributions to nuclear phys­
ics research.
25 YEARS AGO, March 14, 
1972 — Three CMU students 
attended the first National 
Black Political Convention in 
Gary, Indiana. Approximately
3.000 delegates from 47 differ­
ent states attended, along with
4.000 observers, to attempt the
formation of a political platform 
for blacks.
TEN YEARS AGO, March 11, 
1987 — CMU Sigma Alpha Epsi­
lon brothers took first place at 
the 1987 Greek Sing competition 
with a gender-bending, full-drag 
rendition of “I Am What I Am” 
from La Cage aux Folles. Wear­
ing more makeup than nearly 
every other group that performed, 
dressing in body suits, and even 
shaving their legs, the brothers 
performed “brilliantly,” accord­
ing to one observer in the full- 
capacity audience.
Additionally, the national Al­
pha Epsilon Pi organization 
granted CMU a charter to form a 
campus chapter of the fraternity.
FIVE YEARS AGO, March 16, 
1992—CMU announced plans to 
begin phone system overhauls
over the upcoming spring break.
The new phone system, com­
pleted in the summer of 1992, 
provided expanded telephone ser­
vice to all University residences 
as a result of a move away from 
Bell of Pennsylvania towards 
CMU ownership of all CMU 
phone lines. Additionally, the 
system allowed options such as 
call waiting, call forwarding, and 
conference calling.
The spring break work mainly 
consisted of hardware installa­
tion necessary for further up­
grades, and students did not see 
any changes in the phone system 
until the beginning of the 1992 
school year.
ONE YEAR AGO, March 18, 
1996 — President Mehrabian 
stunned the Carnegie Mellon 
University campus by announc­
ing his resignation, scheduled for
the end of the 1996-1997 school 
year. Mehrabian left his position 
as Dean of the College of Engi­
neering at the University of Cali­
fornia at Santa Barbara to suc­
ceed Richard Cyert as University 
President in 1990.
Mehrabian cited personal and 
family concerns as the motiva­
tion behind his resignation, and 
Board of Trustees Chairman 
Thomas McConomy confirmed 
that Mehrabian was not leav­
ing to take a position with an­
other university.
Mehrabian noted increased ap­
plications, the construction of the 
University Center, and increased 
freshman retention rates as some 
of the school’s strongest develop­
ments during his time here.
Compiled by 
ELLEN BELDNER

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 19973
PleasKsASA KlfAeGMAGa 
1lGleS CMU qelOASSle
Construction changes
AWARD, from page 1
applied analysis of materials in stress­
ful situations — for example, the con­
crete in a bridge. Her organizational 
and planning duties as associate dean 
of MCS further added to her contribu­
tions to science.
“I think I see my role both as some­
one who does science, who teaches 
others to do science, and who helps in 
building conditions for others to do 
science. I’ve been doing these things
for a while, because it’s hard for me to 
disassociate them. I enjoy doing all of 
these aspects.”
Fonseca learned that she was to 
receive the award several weeks ago. 
“At first, I thought it was a joke,” said 
Fonseca. “I had to go to Portugal [two 
weeks ago]. About two days before 
leaving, I got a phone call from an 
ambassador that I had never heard of 
in my life, telling me that I would have 
to extend my visit until the ninth. At 
first I was a little suspicious that it 
might be a Mend [playing a joke]. I 
didn’t expect this to happen ... I real­
ized it wasn’t a joke when my travel 
agency called me saying, What’s go­
ing on? We just got a phone call and 
somebody’s changing all your tickets.’” 
Another woman, a physicist, was 
also made a member of the Ordem de 
Santiago de Espada, although 
Fonseca’s order is of a higher degree. 
“It’s like in the Army... Grande Oficial 
is like general, but then, there are 
others,” she said.
Although women have made many 
achievements in the sciences in recent
Major changes...
Registration
MAJORS, from page 1
that worry.”
The benefits of a double major are 
not as great as some believe. “Stu­
dents are misinformed about the com­
petitive advantages they associate with
• taking a double maj or. Employers and 
graduate schools look for particular 
courses and not others. Almost nobody 
cares outside the University whether 
a student has a double major or not,”
years, Fonseca believes that there is 
still room for improvements. For ex­
ample, the CIT freshman class is 22 
percent female, while SCS is 18 per­
cent female. These are record-high 
levels for both colleges, yet still far 
away from an even ratios. Indeed, 
Fonseca is one of the few tenured 
female professors in SCS, MCS, and 
CIT.
“The reality is, there aren’t many 
women in engineering or science, no
matter what we say. CMU is making 
efforts — very sincere and active ef­
forts — in trying to attract not just 
students, but faculty into the ranks.
“It’s true that there are not many 
women and that more things have to 
be done; however, it’s also true that 
CMU does not get to hire more women 
because they simply do not exist out 
there. When recruitment comes and 
we have to look into new faculty for 
the next year, there are simply no 
women — there is a gap. But now we 
see a lot more women in the new 
generation and the hope is that it will 
not dilute, and we’ll see some of these 
people persisting and appearing later 
on in roles of direction and leadership 
in science and engineering.
“I do see myself a little bit as a 
role model in that I like to tell the 
students that it can be done and 
that you don’t need to be deprived of 
things to do it,” she said. “Of course, 
I have a busy life, but I have a full 
life, too. I would never dream of 
doing anything but what I do — I 
enjoy what I do enormously.”
rules change
said Kirkpatrick.
She said, “It would be really nice 
if the new system would encourage 
the kind of behavior that we all 
think would be more desirable for 
students — that they select a ma­
jor, do double major only with the 
strongest sense of commitment in 
that second major, and that other 
students expand their horizons by 
taking interesting electives.”
CONSTRUCTION, from page 1
tects PC, the architecture firm chosen 
to design the facility, Stefani Ledowitz, 
an adjunct professor in the College of 
Fine Arts, Angie Lee, a CMU graduate 
working for Perkins Eastman, and 
Hydzik.
The Turner Construc­
tion Company is working 
on this project. Previously, 
this company worked on 
renovation of the Univer­
sity Center and Wean Hall 
computer clusters.
The facility’s relocation 
will make the basement of Morewood 
Gardens vacant. As a result, the 
Morewood Basement Planning Com­
mittee was approved by Student Sen­
ate on March 13 to work with CMU 
Hospitality Services to decide how this 
space can be used by students. How­
ever, the final decision will be ma de by 
Hospitality Services.
The committee is composed of four 
members of the Student Dormitory
GREEKS, from page 1Senate’s fiscal policy as currently imple­
mented,” said Krug.
“This proposal was developed in con­
sultation with Eric Grant and Lori 
VanNewKirk, president of the 
Panhellenic Council. It is my under­
standing that it has the full support of 
Eric, Lori, and Adele Chiodo, president 
of Greek Council,” said Krug.
“I support Bryon’s proposal, insofar as 
it accomplishes pretty much the same
KAPPA SIG, from page 1
board control. The sanctions were put in 
place earlier in the school year. We have 
not talked about revoking their char­
ter,” he said.
According to Wilson, the fraternity
Council, four members from Student 
Government, and two members of the 
student body at large.
“The main condition is that it has to 
be a fun place, something students want 
and will be happy with,” said Bryori 
Krug, Student Government president.
There are also financial constraints that 
will be taken into consideration.
“It started off as a very simple project, 
a place with vending machines, pool 
tables, and dart boards,” said Annette 
Allison, Director of Hospitality Services. 
“It will be essentially whatever stu­
dents want it to be. It is really impor­
tant to us that it is a student generated 
kind of place,” she said. The Morewood 
Basement Planning Committee will be
purpose as mine. The major difference, 
as I see it, is that my proposal left it to 
Senate to make the funded/unfunded 
call when the issue arose. Bryon’s pro­
posal sets it out on the table and might 
therefore be easier for Senate to swal­
low,” said Grant.
“I believe that the second proposal 
should be passed. The second proposal 
gives the Greek system all of the Univer­
sity rights of any other organization, but 
mandates that financial support can only
must meet certain provisions to be taken 
off suspension.
If Kappa Sigma is not successful with 
their appeal, Michaels said, “We really 
haven’t established any kind of pro­
cess [for filling an empty house on the
Morewood
doing a variety of things to solicit stu­
dent input. “I imagine that the plan­
ning group will make a strong effort to 
let students know what is happening. 
They will review the suggestions (per­
taining to the Morewood basement space 
and to a campus hangout) that were
submitted to the Presidential Surplus 
Commission, the group that made rec­
ommendations on how to allocate the 
surplus Activities Fee money,” Krug 
said. “They will also solicit new ideas. 
We are open to suggestions about how 
to best use [the space],” he said. Krug 
said the goal is to have the basement 
area available for student use by this 
fall.The costs of the renovation of the 
new facility exceed $1.2 million.
go to groups with open memberships. 
This will allow the Greeks to reserve 
rooms and use University resources, but 
will prevent the community funds from 
going to exclusive events,” said Rosenthal.
A petition with at least 50 signatures is 
required to bring a bylaws change pro­
posal to the Senate floor. “The petition 
has over 150 signatures, of which a large 
majority are fraternity members, but 
there are also some non-Greek signa­
tures,” said Avanish Jain, a sophomore 
IM major, who is also the Senate chair of 
the Funding and Recognition Committee 
and a brother of the Sigma Nu.
“A two-thirds majority is required to 
change the bylaws. The other thing 
specific to the bylaws is two readings. 
We have to make sure we are doing the 
right thing as far as changing the by­
laws — or deciding not to change them,” 
said Senate chair Catherine Senderling, 
a second-year MS student in public 
policy and management.
“I think that once Senators really un­
derstand what this proposal does and 
what it doesn’t do, they will have a hard 
time voting against it.
Other than making it easier for Stu­
dent Government to work with Greek 
organizations, this proposal doesn’t 
change much. It simply clarifies and for­
malizes the way things currently are,” 
said Krug.
Kappa Sigma
fraternity quad]. It doesn’t happen very 
often. We have at least one fraternity 
without a house on the quad, so we will 
probably go to them first.”
Kappa Sigma is currently waiting for 
date to be set for the appeals hearing.
Crime and Incident Report
“...I have a full life.... I would never dream 
of doing anything but what I do. ”
— Irene Fonseca, Associate Dean of MCS
“The main condition is that it has to be a fun place, 
something students want and will be happy with. ” 
— Bryon Krug, Sudent Body President
uAGpaA RlGSEWAeS meAAd eARlKGEaElG
Llsette Mlller-Dixon/Tartan Photo Staff 
Adele Chiodo, president of Greek Council and Eric Grant, IFC president, discuss plans 
for Senate recognition of Greeks at the Senate meeting last Thursday.
Officials consider removing
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 3/13, 
3:24 am — A CMU police officer 
encountered two individuals who 
were standing next to several 
open post boxes in West Wing. 
The post office boxes, the officer 
noted, had been closed a half hour 
earlier. One of the students was 
looking at a piece of mail. When 
the officer approached, the stu- 
. dent put it back in one of the open 
.boxes and closed the box door. 
The officer identified the two stu­
dents, who explained that they 
were picking up their mail and 
opened the other boxes because 
they were bored. The two stu­
dents opened the boxes by spin­
ning the combination locks.
The students were advised that 
tampering with mail is a serious 
federal offense and were issued 
internal citations.
THEFT, 3/13, 8:30 am — A 
CMU staffer reported to Campus 
Police that sometime the previ­
ous night, someone entered his 
locked office and removed his 
6300 CD Macintosh Computer, 
along with the keyboard, hard 
drive, and monitor. The system 
was valued at approximately 
$2,000.
Police checked the door for signs 
of prymarks or other forced en­
try, but found none.
MEDICAL, 3/14,2:01 am—A 
member of the custodial staff re­
ported toPolice that while empty­
ing the trash of a room in the 
Mellon Institute, he was acciden­
tally pricked by a needle that was
in the trash. He was pricked in the 
right middle finger, he reported, 
and washed his hands in cold wa­
ter immediately afterwards.
The employee’s supervisor 
transported the victim to Mercy 
Hospital.
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 3/14, 
5:31 am —A CMU guard radioed 
Campus Police that someone had 
lifted the sink out of place in the 
West Wing men’s bathroom. This 
caused the water line to break 
apart, causing a flood in the im­
mediate area. The guard was able 
to shut the water off, but a quar­
ter-inch of water had already cov­
ered the floor.
MEDICAL, 3/13, 1:33 am — 
Police responded to a call from 
Resnik for a person with a cut 
foot. Upon arriving, police found 
EMS medics attending to the pa­
tient. The student stated that he 
stepped from his top bunk onto a 
metal emblem hanging off of his 
backpack’s zipper.
Police transported the victim 
to the hospital.
PROPERTY DAMAGE, 3/10, 
6:35 pm — Police responded to 
one of the Roselawn residences 
because of a report that a section 
of ceiling had fallen over the 
kitchen cabinets. No one was in­
jured, but there were several 
cracks in the ceiling surface. The 
residents reported that there has 
been a leak of unknown origins 
upstairs and that Housing had 
not yet responded to maintenence
requests to have it fixed.
THEFT, 3/9, 11:45 am — A 
USA Today employee called Cam­
pus Police to report that the 
ResnikUSA Today paper boxhad 
been stolen from the Resnik lobby. 
The employee stated that the box
had been in place two days before 
when he last put papers in it. The 
value of the box is unknown.
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior to 
release.
• Only three people on The Tartan 
staff see the reports: the Editor-in- 
Chief, the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter typing the report.
® Ml personal names of complain­
ants, victims, suspects, andfratemity 
names are omitted from the printed
report. Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details are given only in the 
context of complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
pears in the report.
Compiled by 
ELLEN BELDNER
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of facts. If you know of an 
error, please contact Editor-In-Chief Sharmila Venkatasubban at 
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
In last week’s issue, Brian Smith was listed as Tartan Junior 
Staff. His correct title affiliation is Tartan Photo Staff.
“What’s the best way to tell 
7000 people about my business 
in one fell swoop?”
THE TARTAN
is now accepting advertisements for the annual Spring Carnival Supplement, to 
be published along with the April 4 edition ...
Space reservation deadline for Carnival Supplement ads is Thursday, March 20 
at 5 pm. Copy deadline is Tuesday, April 1 at 5 pm. To reserve space, call The 
Tartan at 268-2111, fax your request to 268-1596, or e-mail tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Pleas KlAS1Gas 
,l1aps g3GGaWWsASK ASTROLOGERS
? Personal ? Private ? One-On-One ?I -900-476-31 00ek.427
$2.99/min. Avg. call 12min. Avg. cost per call $36 
Must be over 18 • Touch Tone phone required 
Cust. Serv., Strauss Comm., Carmel, CA (408)-625-1910
Aftferae nadmeirdsv
Transferable Credits 
Accelerated Sessions 
Start Dates May through July
TAKESaAe Dc OphJ q1lGAJ 
MpEr le EG qAeSlG•
Call 1 (800) 283-3853
for our complete Summer 1997 
Information/Application Package
Dcqul&e University « Piitsblkch, PA 13282 
Visit Duquesne on the Web: uw.rfuq.edu'UESNEiRSITY

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University17 March 1997
Greeks should not 
receive Senate funds
The fraternities and sororities 
asked Student Senate for inde­
pendent recognition at last 
Thursday’s Student Senate meet­
ing.
Two proposals were presented 
to Senate removing the clause 
from the bylaws which allows only 
Greek Council, representing both 
fraternities and sororities, to in­
teract with Student Senate. While 
one proposal will grant Greek or­
ganizations unfunded recogni­
tion, the other will leave indi­
vidual fraternities and sororities 
eligible to ask for funded recogni­
tion on their.
With funded recognition, fra­
ternities and sororities will be 
able to receive activities fees mon­
ies which are allocated to student 
organizations.
While the Greek system is an 
active part of student life that 
contributes to campus events, fra­
ternities and sororities should not 
receive funded recognition from 
Student Senate because of the 
exclusive nature of these groups. 
Student Government restricts 
student activities fees to organi­
zations that offer membership to 
all students and by funding the 
Greek system from this pool would 
violate this policy.
If a student wants to joina Greek 
organization, he or she can do so 
by invitation only and the criteria 
by which each fraternity and so­
rority judge “rushees” is highly 
subjective — no standard among 
houses exists. A house can tech-
Wats:On? Festival 
misses its point
Students in CFA received two 
days off from class last week to 
attend the Wats:On? Festival, 
which honored the late adjunct 
professor and alumnus Jill 
Waston who died on TWA’s Flight 
800 last July. While the attempt 
to honor her life and impact on 
CMU is commendable, aspects of 
the celebration were questionable, 
beginning with the feeling of iso­
lation that CFA fostered by limit­
ing attendance to only CFA stu­
dents. The lack of. solidarity 
among colleges only grew as non- 
CFA students were discouraged 
from attending any of the lec­
tures and performances. While 
all students were free to sit in on 
any event, they were expected to 
“defer” seating to CFA students 
since the festival was an attempt 
to create unity among CFA. How­
ever, if these events were not in­
tended for all to attend then they 
should not have been held in such 
a central area like the University 
Center; CFA would have been a 
more appropriate location.
With the colored lighting that 
adorned certain buildings, the 
campus was transformed in a 
sense, which raised an important 
question for most students: why 
is only one faction of the campus 
privy to celebrate the efforts of 
someone who obviously left a great 
impact on the school? By exclud­
ing others from the festival this 
question was left unanswered.
CFA students were required to 
attend at least one event in re­
turn for the two day vacation and 
judging from the actual turnout
nically deny a student member­
ship without any reason. Those 
that limit membership by any 
conditions, such as educational, 
scientific, cultural, social, politi­
cal, or religious are not eligible to 
receive funding — Greek organi­
zations are no different.
Greek members argue that Sen­
ate funding would go toward Car­
nival events which would benefit 
the whole campus, but because 
fraternities and sororities are not 
open to all students, not all stu­
dents can participate on their 
Booth and Buggy teams. Senate 
money would be funding activi­
ties that not all students are privy 
to.
The Greeks also claim that if 
they cannot afford to take part in 
Carnival events the entire cam­
pus would suffer because of the 
impact Greek participation has 
on Carnival.
While it is true that fraternities 
and sororities enhance the Carni­
val atmosphere, their contribu­
tions are not irreplaceable. The 
increase of independent groups 
in Booth and Buggy events con­
tinues to rise and Carnival is no 
longer considered to be a “Greek 
festival.”
Unlike other student organiza­
tions fraternities and sororities 
are funded independently and the 
majority of those funds go towards 
exclusive activities—it would be 
a misuse of funds to allocate to 
exclusive groups money that be­
longs to the entire community.
Letters to the Editor
&
Letter to 
the Editor
of students at many events, they 
barely met the requirement. And 
high participation in such a poorly 
advertised celebration could not 
have been expected to be higher. 
Many students with an hour in 
between class would have been 
more likely to attend than those 
with no reason to come to cam­
pus.
Although Watson’s contribu­
tions to her field justify CFA’s 
efforts to honor her, the closed 
nature of the events made many 
students wonder CMU would al­
low classes to be canceled in her 
name while failing to do the same 
for Martin Luther Ring Day. Even 
other CMU affiliates such as 
Judith Resnik whose endeavors 
warrant celebration do not receive 
such recognition. Along similar 
lines, Professor Richard 
Schoenwald’s death affected the 
entire campus community in that 
his classes were offered to all stu­
dents despite college or major — 
it is doubtful that the administra­
tion considered cancelling class 
in his honor.
If CMU is to hold the Wats:On? 
Festival in the future then CFA 
needs to reevaluate its intent to 
create unity within the college by 
alienating the rest of the campus. 
All students should be given the 
same opportunity to observe the 
celebration. CMU administrators 
should consider what message the 
University is sending when allow­
ing CFA students to miss class for 
alumni whose limited impact is 
easily overshadowed by greater fig­
ures in national and CMU history.
AB chair reacts 
to movie column
Editor:
It has become a 
weekly habit: I get 
my copy of The Tar­
tan on Monday 
evening and turn to 
the DH 2210 page to 
see what mindless banter appears.
I cannot understand why the writers 
of this column continue to neglect the 
student body by printing such silliness, 
or why the editors and staff of The Tar­
tan would allow something so embar­
rassing and nonsensical to appear in 
their paper.
Such press coverage is negative in 
multiple ways. First, it acts as counter- 
advertisment for many of the films. It is 
easier to understand the reviews for 
Friday and Saturday films, which are 
usually popular movies.
However, Thursday and Sunday films 
are usually lesser-known. By printing 
inane gibberish about these movies, it 
negates any positive advertising by the 
films committees, and robs the campus 
of finding out what these films are truly 
about. All of these films deserve to be 
seen. For example, Thursday’s film, Wel­
come to the Dollhouse, is an interesting 
portrait of life in junior high.
According to the DH 2210 column, the 
film involves a girl named Dogface “with 
a penchant for rotating knives and voo­
doo melons” whose sister “abducts her­
self and tries to force tapioca pudding to 
spew from her elbows.” Who would know 
what the film is about after reading The 
Tartan’s review, and more importantly, 
who would want to see it?
Second, many of the reviews come 
from uninformed opinions. The review 
for Sunday’s film, Danger: Diabolik, be­
gins: “I’m not going to lie to you, I haven’t 
the slightest idea what this 1968 film 
with an Italian crew is about.” Part of 
the job of any newspaper writer is to 
research what they are writing about. 
Greg Marcks, current writer of the DH 
2210 column, reviews Lost Highway on
the preceding page, and does so with 
honesty and integrity. Why is that not 
possible for the films on campus?
Last, such press reflects poorly on The 
Tartan itself. How could anyone who 
was considering a career in journalism 
be proud of such writing?
As films programmers, we have at­
tempted to obtain for the campus a vari­
ety of films, all worth seeing, and all 
paid for by their Activities Fee. The 
column is a blatant misrepresentation 
of these films. The films committes work 
hard to select, advertise, and present 
films of all kinds, and our efforts are 
wasted by such misrepresentation. The 
Tartan has claimed that they will not 
print anything as advertisement for any 
one specific organization. Yet, if the col­
umn does not wish to publicize the films, 
what indeed is its purpose?
It may seem overly sensitive of us, but 
we believe the students of CMU have 
full right to the best entertainment pos­
sible for their money; too often we see 
The Tartan impede, infringe, and re­
move that right from them. The student 
body has paid for the activities that 
appear on campus, and has a right to 
know all about them.
We believe fully in the rights of free 
speech and freedom of the press, but we 
ask The Tartan this: Why should these 
rights infringe on the rights of the stu­
dents to get the best entertainment their 
Activities Fee can buy?
Charles L. Cron,
Subhojit Mookerjee,
Patrick Randerson,
Jeb Wilson,
AB & SDC Films Chairs
Reader argues 
for fair taxation
Editor:
I disagree with 
James Stepanek’s ar­
ticle (“Government 
taxes prevent owner­
ship,” 3/10/97) on sev­
eral points, but I will
Letten to the Editor The TartanStudent Center Room to
Letter to 
the Editor
start with his article’s most glaring flaw: 
He regards all types of regulation as 
major infringements on one’s rights, yet 
their main purpose is to protect the 
rights of others. Rights are violated if a 
toxic waste company dumps cancer-caus­
ing chemicals right next to a school, 
regardless of whether the company owns 
the property. Similarly, poor citizens’ 
right to “own” (and thus control) their 
body is violated the instant government 
stops providing medical care, food 
stamps, and housing. It is paranoia to 
think that all (or even most) regulation 
is only for the government’s benefit.
Returning to the issue of property 
rights, Stepanek absurdly equates taxes 
with “armed robbery.” This money is not 
going into thin air, but to a representa­
tive government that the taxpayers 
elected to spend for the public good. It is 
our own fault if we elect bureaucrats 
who waste our money.
Inheritance pretty much destroys 
whatever argument Stepanek might 
have had. His main argument, para­
phrased, is that you shouldn’t derive 
any benefit from that which you did not 
earn. Yet, he certainly has shown no 
quarrel to those who are wealthy merely 
because their parents are. If he is, in 
fact, against inheritance, then his argu­
ment also collapses.
It is easier to pretend that America is 
perfectly fair already, and ignore the 
plight of many people who are disadvan­
taged from birth. Yet it is our responsi­
bility, however much harder, to find a 
truly fair system of government that 
accounts for the fact that not everybody 
has an equal starting position in the free 
market. I agree that the current system 
is not perfect, but that is not a green 
light to forever close to the disadvan­
taged whatever hope they had in the 
American Dream. Finding real solutions 
to citizens’ problems is not as easy as 
lowering (or eliminating) taxes and blam­
ing others, as Stepanek would have us 
believe.
Michael Averbuch
Freshman
MCS
CgU qeAqpeAS SasWAGaS Ole eApr 3lerW
I would like to 
focus on an issue 
that does not get 
nearly enough at­
tention on this 
Michael Sperger campus: whatmakes this school 
great. Applications
for admission have soared to record highs over the past two 
years. To the outside world, CMU is a hot commodity.
A pragmatist might dismiss our new popularity by noting 
that the job market is growing more capricious with each 
passing year, and smart high school students recognize that 
a degree from CMU still bears a certain prestige in the 
market. I would agree, and argue that the ability to train 
“bulletproof’ survivors of today’s job market will be this 
University’s hallmark of excellence in its second century.
After the GI Bill flooded America’s colleges with students 
following World War II, the process of educating college 
students shifted from broader subjects presented in a liberal 
arts setting to focused courses of study in specific career 
fields. Indeed, this University has thrived over the past few 
decades not as a traditional school that adapted to this more 
technical model, but as a college with a reputation as a tech 
school that can also provide other forms of education through 
H&SS and MCS.
Because of this century’s shift in the nature of undergradu­
ate education and because of the booming technology-based 
industries in this country, it’s hip these days to be an engi­
neer. It’s also hip to have an engineering school degree.
We’re seeing a new standard for measuring academic 
excellence which sharply digresses from our society’s tradi­
tional concept of a first-class university: ivy walls, old build­
ings, old white male professors teaching the dusty canon of 
Western literature. CMU fits our new model for an excellent 
undergraduate university: demanding, research-intensive, 
aimed toward getting students trained in high-demand fields.
We are taking some risks in leading this wave of newer- 
model schools. For one thing, a lot of long-held ideals about 
the educational process as well as the job market are fading 
away from us. Workers, even professional ones, function as a 
commodity these days, to be bought, sold, traded, or moved 
around with little regard for human needs. Many times in my 
own job search, people have told me, “Expect to work about 
60 hours a week in this job. You’ll have to travel frequently. 
And we maintain an at-will termination policy.” Translation: 
don’t get attached to our company. Also, there is an implicit 
statement here that your work will come before family or 
other concerns. The 60-hour work week used to be the 
province of associate lawyers, medical school residents, and 
other lunatic professionals. But for five years now, my father, 
formerly a banker and now a special projects manager for a 
law firm, has been working 60 to 70 hour weeks all the time. 
He was with the same company for over 20 years before this 
started happening. Long work weeks and little family time 
are fast becoming rule rather than exception.
Some people lament these changes, and eventually we may 
turn back from them. That’s the risk: that as we are prepar­
ing for today’s professional climate, it may be preparing to 
take whole new directions. And with training focused on a 
specific climate, we may miss the boat somewhere along the 
way.
Fortunately, most students here seem flexible and aggres­
sive enough to weather the changes without difficulty, and 
CMU itself, for all the complaining people do here about 
bureaucracy, could turn its direction as a school on a dime if 
necessary. In some disciplines it has already. This univer­
sity, for better or worse, is setting the pace for the educational 
community, and it contributes to the pace of the job market. 
My final question, then, is one you can only answer for 
yourself: Have you made the right decision for yourself?
Michael Sperger is a senior professional writing major. He 
welcomes any responsible replies to his column.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 19975
Cloning conundrum engages national attention
U.S. displays foolish fear of clones Threat of clones looms over future
Ellen Beldner
Since the announcement of Dolly, lead­
ers the world over — from Bill Clinton to 
the Pope — have been condemning hu­
man cloning. “This raises some serious 
ethical questions,” said President 
Clinton, demanding that an ethics panel 
report to him in 90 days about the impli­
cations of human cloning.
Much of our fear of cloning is derived 
from literature that has trickled through 
society in the past century or so. It was 
assumed that clones would be somehow 
less human, without soul, without indi­
viduality — thereby relegating them to 
a substandard position in society simply 
by virtue of being clones. We rightly fear 
this loss of individuality.
But when we stand quaking in our 
shoes over the thought of genetically 
identical human beings, we forget sev­
eral things. There is no genetic differ­
ence between twins or triplets and a 
clone/clonee group; despite “identical” 
genes, there will always be a few small 
differences in physiology, thanks to ge­
netic crossovers and mutations. Geneti­
cally “identical” twins are not precisely 
alike, even physically — and in person­
ality, the differences become even 
greater. Couple this with the fact that a 
clonee is likely to be years older than its 
clone, and it is downright ridiculous to 
assume that genetically “identical” 
people will act and think like each other.
In a strictly biological sense, our per­
sonality is shaped by the way our neural 
circuits develop and form patterns over 
the course of a lifetime. These circuits 
are modified with each experience and 
interpretation we make — even identi­
cal twins who grow up in the same house­
hold do not have identical perceptions 
and experiences, so there is no reason to 
think a clone born years after its clonee 
would be a mental clone of that person 
as well.
Cloning is not about growing spare 
body parts and creating a perpetually- 
lasting physical self — or even 
Bokanovsky-like groups of the same
physical person. As for using specific 
body parts, is anyone in society going to 
condone the creation, birth, and subse­
quent upbringing of an individual hu­
man being just so he can be killed for an 
organ? There is nothing about the na­
ture of a cloned human that would pos­
sibly allow such an atrocity any more 
than we could permit the action with 
human non-clones.
Repeatedly cloning the same person 
wouldn’t be feasible, either: for one, af­
ter a certain time, small mutations would 
build up and eventually render the cloned
Alex Lewln
Did anyone ever see that movie The 
Boys from Brazil? It’s about these old 
Nazis who have fled to Argentina and 
who concoct a plan to create about 50 
Hitler clones all over the world. They 
have some of Hitler’s blood cells and 
they use them to create these clones,
DNA inoperable. And finally, it would be 
a bad idea to have only a few possible 
sets of human DNA, each in millions of 
people, on this planet: any basic biology 
knowledge tells us that a species’s ca­
pacity for survival is enhanced with as 
much genetic diversity as possible.
Like yin and yang, human cloning is a 
mixture of the good and bad. It has the 
potential to exacerbate our already too- 
visible tendency of assigning worthbased 
on appearance. But on the other hand, 
there is no reason that human cloning— 
if viable at all — should necessarily and 
inexorably lead us down the frightening 
path that many people think it will.
Ellen Beldner is a freshman in the 
University Choice Program. Her clone, 
Ellen Dos, is the Assistant News Editor.
Anthony Yu/Tartan Art Staff
and in different parts of the world, there 
are little 12-year-old Hitlers beingraised 
in the same conditions Hitler was raised 
in. Hitler was a bad guy and I don’t 
especially want to see him come back for 
another attempt to take over the world. 
And if he did, imagine what a great time 
he would have with the cloning technol­
ogy. He could clone Hulk Hogan a billion 
times, and there would be his master 
race: blond hair, blue eyes, massive 
physical strength. Believe me, one Hulk 
Hogan is enough for the world. All this 
may be an exaggeration, but the prin­
ciple remains true — cloning is danger­
ous. It’s a little like 1984 or A Wrinkle in 
Time where everyone is pretty much 
identical, not physically but mentally. 
True, cloning creates physical more than 
mental identically, but isn’t that just as
dangerous? What kind of a world do we 
live in when a method for producing 
completely identical beings is hailed as 
a great scientific achievement?
Anyway, what’s the point? If you clone 
Michael Jackson, does that mean you’ll 
grace the world with another great mu­
sical talent? True, he won’t have the 
same upbringing or life as the original 
Michael Jackson — but won’t all his 
songs sound like variations on “Smooth 
Criminal”? (Of course, they all do now, 
but that’s another story.) People who 
don’t like Michael Jackson will think 
they’ve died and gone to hell. People who 
do like Michael Jackson will hate this 
clone for weakly reproducing the great 
original musician.
I don’t believe in God, but if He exists, 
I think He made us all different for a 
reason. I’m glad I don’t look like Tom 
Snyder, and I guess I’m glad I don’t look 
like Tom Cruise (but I’m more ambiva­
lent on that one). To produce genetically 
identical human beings, or any other 
animals, is unnatural, and if I believed 
in God, I would probably find it un- 
Godly, too.
Plus, it’s just plain freaky. Remember 
in The Shining when those two identical 
twins kept showing up in the hallway? 
Well, those kids wouldn’t have been 
nearly as scary if there had only been 
one of them. That’s what makes those 
aliens from Communion so scary—there 
are so many of them and they all look 
exactly the same. A recent Newsweek 
cover showed three identical babies. 
Maybe I’m just overly sensitive to this 
sort of thing, but that cover scared the 
hell out of me. The idea that these three 
kids might not be triplets but produced 
individually is highly disturbing.
I don’t want to live in a world where 
it’s conceivable to have a million people 
who all look alike. How weird would that 
be? It would be as though you’re con­
stantly livingin a Stanley Kubrick movie.
Cloning is just plain weird, but also 
quite unnatural. Humans and other 
animals weren’t meant to look exactly 
alike.
Alex Lewin is the Tartan Forum Co- 
Editor, who has cloned himself this week 
in order to perform the functions of the 
other co-editor.
CgU OprrS S1lea EG qsDrEREvEGK 3lMAGyS SpOAac RlGRAeGS
Cameron Dezen
So, what’s the deal with this 
alleged murder that took place 
not a quarter of a. mile from CMlPs 
campus? Any Campus Police bul­
letins? I know that I haven’t seen 
anything to warn students, not 
just women, of any potential dan­
ger in the area. I’ve heard several 
stories of the fate of this alleged 
murder victim. I’ve heard that 
she was raped.
I’ve heard that she wasn’t raped 
but decapitated. I’ve heard she 
was dismembered and raped but 
not decapitated.
What I would really like to know 
is why the powers that be at CMU 
seem to make no effort to alert
women of this kind of potential 
danger. And if it is just a rumor, 
why would something like this 
rise up out of thin air? Somebody 
could at least help us get the 
story straight.
Let’s talk about rape. Two years 
ago, I was living in a house less 
than a block from campus. A 
couple of we.eks before the fall 
semester started, our house was 
broken into and someone I was 
living with was the victim of a 
serial rapist, one who had been in 
the area for several weeks and 
still hasn’t been caught. After the 
semester started, I expected to 
see signs, posters, warnings, con­
ferences, etc., on the subject.
I was confident that Campus 
Police would make the facts 
known in order to warn women, 
and also to potentially scare this 
rapist off from attempting to at­
tack anyone else in the CMU area.
I was wrong. By the first week 
of school, the few Campus Police 
bulletins that hadn’t fallen off 
buildings and telephone poles 
were on the backs of doors in 
obscure hallways in Doherty.
The incident disappeared from 
the minds of the administration 
and therefore never entered the 
minds of the women whose safety 
could potentially depend on it.
The whole manner in which 
Campus Police and the adminis­
tration deal with rape is phenom­
enal to me. On this campus, there 
is a Judicial Board that can de­
cide the guilt or innocence of some­
one accused of rape.
In other words, if campus au­
thorities are notified of a rape, 
they are not obligated to go and 
tell the police.
They can “keep it in the fam­
ily.” I find this profoundly dis­
turbing. Rape is not the same
thing as bike theft or underage 
drinking. It is a violent crime, the 
threat of which has made many a 
night walk unpleasant, if not ter­
rifying, for every woman.
A couple of months ago, I went 
to a conference in the Adamson 
Wing that was advertised as an 
open dialogue between the 
Women’s Center, Campus Police, 
and members of the Administra­
tion on the subject of rape. 
[Editor’s note: please see Vol. 91, 
issue 10, “Students, administra­
tors discuss issues of sexual as­
sault at CMU.”]
I was hoping I could sit in the 
back, incognito, and find out why 
nothing was ever done about the 
rape that occurred in my house 
two years ago. First of all, incog­
nito wasn’t happening because 
there was hardly anyone there. 
Second of all, I became frustrated 
by the fact that a guy was doing
most of the talking for the 
Women’s Center (one who I’m 
sure had the best intentions) I 
flat-out asked all those powers 
that be why nothing was ever 
said or done about this serial rap­
ist. Some very earnest man I’ve 
never seen before spent the next 
25 minutes not answering my 
question. So I left.
I know that no one is really to 
blame for the invisibility of 
women’s safety issues. No one in 
particular, but I think it’s a trag­
edy that there is so little solidar­
ity and unity among women at 
CMU that we haven’t realized 
the situation and taken it into 
our own hands. I guess we are all 
too tired. Too busy. We have too 
much work to do.
Dezen is a senior creative writ­
ing major. She welcomes any re­
sponsible replies to her column.
A PERSON’S
OPINION
u•
In an effort to raise the spir­
its of students who so often 
criticize the University, we 
asked: What do you like most 
about CMU?
Compiled by: Brooke Goldner and 
Anthony Chao
Matt Bomer
Freshman
Drama
“Highlander, because I’ve 
made friends with the staff 
— what up Trina?!”
Blake Kelly
Freshman
Biology
“The wonderful window at the 
bottom of the swimming pool in 
the UC.”
Lucas Rousseaux 
Graduate Student 
GSIA
“Taking drinks on Saturday 
afternoons. I can’t do that at 
home!”
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Peter Truong 
Sophomore 
Economics
“The ladies. My calendar, 
The Ladies of Carnegie Mellon’ 
is coming out April 10.”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student NewspaperSince 1906
Editor-in-Chief.....................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor..................1-Ping Li
Business Manager.....Amit Sheth
News Editor.....................Ena Khan
Forum Co-Editors................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna, Alex Lewin
Sports Editor...........Chris Cannon
Features Editor ..Becky A. Cowser
Diversions Editor.........Tracy Odell
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Editors ... Laura 
Varrachi, Paulina Berczynski 
Dossier Literary Co-Editors.... Kelly
Bowies, Kevin Meehan
Art Editor......................Julee White
Photo Editor...........Anthony Chao
Production Manager Kevin Babbitt 
Advertising Manager... Steven Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager.....  Victor Ortega
Asst. News Editor... Ellen Beldner
Asst. Features Editor.....Anne Ray
Asst. Diversions Editor..........Ryan
Donovan
Asst. Art Editor. Rebecca Madden
Asst. Production Mgr.........William
Holtz
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Slegendorf 
Darkroom Mgr.....Diana Bartolotta
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
John Biggs, Amit Kar, Kenneth 
Kraemer, Andrew McDermott, 
Jay Miolla, Elizabeth Neuman, 
Chintan Shah, Jim Snyder, 
Gabrien Symons
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Jessica Strelitz, Susan
Watson
Staffwriters 
Chris Adukaitis, Andre Archie, Jason 
Andracki, Melissa Batt, Vineet 
Chander, Steve Charnoubi, Max 
Chittister, Matt Cuccaro, Dave 
Elman, Sheila Flanagan, Rebecca 
Fribush, Chuck Fryman, Shannon 
Gibney, Dan Goldwasser, Tom 
Harper, Adam Kllvans, Wladimir 
Labeikovsky, Tom Lin, Simona Lo, 
Greg Marcks, Trevor Meyerowitz, 
Miki Muchhala, Dizzy Murphy, Ken 
Namkung, Jon Orris, Danielle 
Pierratti, Dan Rosenberg, Jaya 
Saxena, Ryan Schilling, Andrew 
Seymour, Betty Shea, ReenaSinghal, 
Ronak Slnghal, Michael Sperger, 
Matthew Solitro, Nathan Steinweld, 
James Stepanek, Meena Vagnier, 
Andrew Wang, Anthony Yu, Bradley 
Zimmerman
Comics
Nick Casciato, Jim McCann, 
Jackson Tam, Dave White, David 
Wingrove, Mike Yeh
Photo
Anukul Kapoor, Lisette Miller-Dixon, 
Maria Gimenez, Brian Smith
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Eva Bai, Amy Cristomo, 
Elias Fallon, Colleen Manning, Paul 
Moore
Production 
Rahul Bhargava, Tammy Manski, 
Diana Rutherford, Pragnesh Surti
Copy
Mimi Cheng, David Elman, Rebecca 
Fribush, Elayne Foster, Maria 
Gimenez, Helena McGahagan, Matt 
McHenry, Megan Parke, Reena 
Singhal, Stanley Tran, Andrew Th­
ompson, Joanne Wei
Business 
Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhorla, 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chris Hong, 
Avinash Jain
Junior Staff 
Andre Archie, Neil Babra, Douglas 
Beeferman, Brendan Bosworth, 
James Carney, Nicholas Casciato, 
Vineet Chander, Susie Cribbs, Jui 
Dai, Joy Ferguson, Rhonda Gillespie, 
Rob Godek, Pratish Haladay, Eric 
Holowka, Will Isenhour, Carrie Jones- 
McGuire, Kevin Kroen, Ken Kwalik, 
Masha Kovarsky, Lilian Lee, Carey 
Lefkowitz, Maureen McGranaghan, 
Diado Mack, Vy Ty Mai, Josh Merry, 
JoAnna Phillips, Jessica Rhodes, 
Benjamin Roberts, Nia Rogers, Ja­
son Scharfman, Scott Shell, Lee- 
Anne Stossel, Joshua Walstrom, Julie 
Wilson, Tony Yu, Seldon Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of trie University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University community. A letter intended for publication mustbesignedandincludethewriter'saddress and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright © 1997 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.Office: University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/268-2111 Mailingaddress:TheTartan/Boxl7/Camegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh,PA 15213-3890 ^Funded in partbyyour Activities Fee. All rights reserved. Library ^Congress ISSN ft: 089&
The Tartan is a member of the Associated Press.

---------------------------------------------------

Lenten Communal Reconciliation Service
ROMAN CATHOLIC
Wednesday,
March 19,1997 
Catholic Newman Center 
8:00 pm
A Service of Scripture and Music with time for 
Individual Confessions.
CATHOLIC NEWMAN CENTER
The Fathers of The Oratory 
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
681-3181
VILLAGE PIZZA
810 Ivy St., Shadyside
Free Delivery! 
682-6878
We're now open 
Wed.-Sat.
11am-2am 
and Sun., Mon. & Tues. 
11a.m.-1a.m.
Hump Day Deals 
Tuesday and Wednesday Only
'l r ¦ 
I II II 16" (12 cut) Cheese pie | | 16" Italian Hoagie g j one 16" Specialty Pie for g
$5.00I E 
I I
. J k.$5.00i i 
i i 
. J L ,8.95
16" Cheese Pizza and 
six-pack of Miller or Miller Lite
$9.99
(Pick up only)
M e1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
J L.
two 16" Specialty Pies for
15.95
Prices excluding tax. Expires 4/1/97.
CATHOLIC NEWMAN CENTER
The Fathers of the Oratory 
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
681-3181
MASS ON CMU CAMPUS
Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration 
Sunday: 10:30 am
8 pm
Heinz Chapel 
Sunday: 12 pm
University Center Chapel 
Mon-Fri.: 12:30 pm
Catholic Newman Center 
Saturday: 4 pm (for Sunday)
5:15 pm (for Sunday) 
Mon-Fri: 5:15 pm
Wednesday: 6:15 pm
STATIONS DURING LENT
University Center Chapel 
Friday: 12 pm
CONFESSIONS
University Center Chapel 
Friday: 1-1:30 pm
Catholic Newman Center 
Saturday: 3-3:45 pm
Five Sonatas of Johann Sebastian BachTRIO SONNERIE
with Wilbert Hazelzet, flute
“Baroque elegance & poise with a gutsy directness which was most refreshing. ’ 
(THE OXFORD TIMES)
March 79 & 7N at nIii p.m.
Synod Hall, Oakland (N. Craig & Fifth) 
Tickets $7-28 ($7 with ID)
(412) 682-7262
Monica Huggett, violin, Sarah Cunningham, viola da gamba, Gary Cooper, harpsichord
1
 Presented by the Renaissance & 
Baroque Society of Pittsburgh
MC/Visa with 
no service charge
SHIPPINGFAXCOPIESpSTAMPS
UPS AUTHORIZED SHIPPING OUTLET
MAIL BOXES ETC."
Computers • Passports • Artwork • Clothes • Books
Low international rates 
Send or receive UPS and FedEx 
Custom packaging and crating 
Private mail receiving
414 S. Craig St. (Near Forbes Ave. & Carnegie Museum) 687-6100
10% OFF
custom packing service 
or packing supplies.
? Learn the art of mixology
? Hands-on from PROFESSIONAL Bartender
? Bartenders earn up to $100 per night
? Be the life of the party
? Learn about wines and champagnes from an 
EXPERT
? Learn how to land a job!
? 18 hour course in 3 weeks
? 1/2 of competitor's price
- FLEXIBLE PAYMENT AVAILABLE
- SIGN UP this week and get $10 discount
? Space is very limited, so call NOW!
Courses offered at 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Coming Soon!!!
For more info call William at 681-1999, 
760-3737 or email wwong-t-@andrew.cmu.edu
ding do« not use real alcohol to teach the course. , , ' <
• brought in part by the University Entrepenurial A'*—““S®
SEE DICK RUN
h­g-
PITTSBURGHANYONE UNDER 25 OR ANY FULL-TIME STUDENT ONLY ‘10 WITH VALID ID NOT VALID SATURDAYS AT 8 ¦ FEBRUARY 27 - APRIL 6
(412) 321-9800
THEATERKDKA RADI01020USAir

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 19977
There's More. Your RAV4 Can Be A 2-Door Or 4-Door, A Front-Wheel 
Drive Or A 4-Wheel Drive, On-Road Or Off-Road With Room For Up To 5 And Cargo, Too.
5wxw5- T-b9 • • • L5Bu ii5 5F!T! -5 xwwT
85wxw5-
I love whát you do for me5wxw5- ,!-L!T NwW!
gAG AGW EGpsKsepr 
SApSlG EG flrrAcDprr
SHY, from page 10 “Apparently the conference big wigs
said, as CCAC took the third game 15- don’t think so,” Jensen said, annoyed
2. “There’s going to be times where at the decision to only take the top two 
you’re not ready.” teams in the conference to the play-
CMU came back strong in the last offs. Another team might be content 
contest of the tri-match, whippingRob- with such a good opening season, but 
ert Monis 15-7 and 15-11. Jensen not this club. Accoring to Jensen, the 
rotated players in fast and freely in the team is trying to set up a mini-playoff 
team’s last home match. He lauded the with the rest of the teams in the con- 
rookie’s team’s performance and thinks ference, in order to give CMU’s young 
they deserved a trip to the playoffs. team some post-season experience.
Uniforms will improve
half. “Gabe made the difference between
ADMINISTRATION
Director — Mike Mastroianni xI- 
2214; Assistant Director — Mike 
Grzywinski x8-2214 or x8-1233; Intra­
mural Secretary — Michelle Matta xI- 
2053; Intramural President—MattWil­
liams 621-8987; Women’s President — 
Pia Soriano 681-4031.
Important Dates
March 17 — IM wrestling meet in the 
Main Gym.
March 18—IM board meeting—Gym 
Conference room at 11:30 am.
March 18 & 19 — Co-rec and team 
badminton at - pm in Skibo Gym.
April 1 — Mandatory rules meeting 
for indoor soccer. 4:30 pm IM office.
April 1 — Softball games will begin.
April 2 — Indoor soccer games begin.
April 3 — Kickball (co-rec), ultimate 
frisbee, and fencing roster due by 4:30 pm.
Foul Shooting
The 1997 champion is Calvin Yao with 
a score of 94 out of 100, edging out Brian 
Kreuger and Scott Jones each with 91. 
The men’s team champion was Domin­
ions with 440 out of 500. The women’s 
champ was Michelle Cook with 85 and
Pioneer’s won the team title with 272.
Three-Point Shoot Out
The Three-Point Shoot Out winner is 
Rob Pham. He hit 21 out of 25 shots from 
beyond the arc. The women’s champion 
is Sarah Frew with 11.
Three-on-Three Basketball
The Three-on-Three basketball tour­
nament was held this week at Skibo 
Gymnasium. Winners: Majors — Three 
Times, Intermediate — NBN(Joe 
Boyles), Minors — Beta Lehman’s Gay, 
Women ¦— Tartan Hoopers.
Floor Hockey
The last two weeks of the regular sea­
son are left. The playoffs will begin ei­
ther April I or 9. Games will be played 
from 7 to 11 pm on Monday through 
Thursday nights. Please stay out of track 
practice. You will have time to warm up.
Pinochle
Turn in all scores before spring break.
Water Basketball
Games are underway at the Univer­
sity Center pool. They will be played on 
Monday,Wednesday, and Thursday 
nights from 9 to 11 pm.
Wrestling
The 1997 IM Wrestling Tournament 
will take place tonight, March 17. En­
tries will be taken up to the evening of 
the matches. Weigh-ins will begin at
5:45 pm in the Main Gym. Matches will 
begin at 6:30 pm.
Squash
Matches will be played at the UC. The 
schedule will be out Thursday.
Badminton
The co-rec and team badminton tourna­
ments occur in the Main Gym on March 18 
and March 19. Games will begin at - pm.
Indoor Soccer
The indoor soccer season will begin on 
Wednesday, April 2 in Skibo Gymnasium. 
Schedules will be out this Thursday. There 
will be a mandatory rules meeting on 
Tuesday, April 1 at Skibo Gym.
Softball
Games begin April 1 and will be played 
Monday through Thursday nights and 
Sunday. Schedules will be out Thursday.
All Sports Update
1. BETA 2442
2. SAE 2200
3. TX 1492
4. TODD’S TEAM 1300
5. DU 1175
WOMEN’S
1. TARTAN HOOPERS 1341
2. FLYING O’S 750
3. PIONEERS 567
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
UNIFORM, from page 10
Slippery Rock would not go quietly 
though, tying the game twice more. 
Miolla bounced a shot past the opponets’ 
goalie between the two Slippery Rock 
goals. Jamie Meredith put in the game 
winner, his second goal of the night, 
before Jander added an insurance goal 
with a sweet underhand shot.
“[It was] tough but I think we pulled it 
through,” said Louie on having to fight 
back Slippery Rock time and again.
Goalie Gabe Caldwell-Lafleur was 
solid, giving up just two goals in each
last night and tonight,” said Aron 
Ralston. Brent Haick was in goal 
Wednesday because Caldwell-Lafleur 
was unable to attend. ‘You got to admire 
Brent for stepping in, though.”
Ralston explained that with the regu­
lar goalie in place, Haick was able to 
return to his starting position on the 
defense. “He played defense for us to­
night, he did real well,” Ralston said.
In all aspects, the team is playing better. 
With a little help from a manufacturer, 
hopefully the/ll be looking better, too.
Expert picks post-season kings from the boys of spring
SYRACUSE
UNIVERSITY
119 Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472 
suabroad@syr.edu 
http:// 
sumweb.syr.edu/dipa
witihWlb 
ehrtHb a
SCHOLARSHIPS
The Hot Corner
Matt Cuccaro
Hey baseball fans! Coox is here 
and anxiously awaiting the start of 
the 1997 Major League Baseball 
season. Man, I love this time of 
year—the weather is getting bet­
ter, spring break is a week away, 
Carnival is rapidly approaching, 
and soon, for the first time in five 
months, there will be baseball.
1997 will see some changes in 
the sport, however, none will be 
bigger than the advent of 
interleague play. That’s right! For 
the first time since 1986, my Red 
Sox will be able to avenge that 
World Series loss (it was fixed, by 
the way) to the Mets. Other things 
to look out for: the Bash Brothers 
have been reunited in Oakland, 
Roger Clemens has gone to Canada, 
AlbertBelle moved to Chicago, and 
everyone else has migrated to 
Florida. Now lets’s see what’ll hap­
pen this season with the 1997 edi­
tion of “The Coox Picks.”
National League
East
1) Atlanta: Once again, Bobby 
Cox’s squad will make a World 
Series appearance. Chipper and 
Greg will be awesome, but Smoltz 
won’t have his ’96 form.
2) Florida: This is the most- 
improved team in baseball, ac­
quiring Bobby Bonilla, Alex 
Fernandez, Moisés Alou, and, 
most importantly, manager Jim 
Leyland during the off-season. 
Though the Fish will fall just 
short of the Braves in September, 
they will win the Wild Card.
3) New York: A lack of major off­
season transactions sticks the Mets 
in the middle of the pack. They may 
not be as good as the Braves or 
Marlins, but they don’t suck as much
as the Expos or Phillies.
4) Montreal: Money constraints 
once again forced the Expos to lose 
their stars to free agency. Gone are 
MelRojas, JeffFassero, andMoises 
Alou. Can there be any hope for 
this team? No, and they can’t af­
ford that, either.
5) Philadelphia: What can you 
say about this team? Well, unlike 
the Pirates, the Phillies have three 
guys you may have heard of.
Central
1) St. Louis: Tony La Russa’s 
Cards are still the strongest team 
in the Central.
2) Cincinnati: The Reds should 
be competitive, but the most in­
teresting thing about this team is 
still Marge.
3) Chicago: They acquired 
Kevin Tapani, Mel Rojas, and 
reunited Shawon Dunston with 
Ryne Sandberg. So what? It’s still 
the Cubbies, andthey won’t place 
higher than third.
4) Houston: They’ll fin­
ish fourth. Call it a 
gut feeling.
5) Pittsburgh:
No Jay Bell,
Jeff King, Or­
lando Merced, 
or Carlos Garcia.
Please call 333- 
BUCS if you i 
would like to play, y
West
9) Los Angeles:
If Mike Piazza can stay 
healthy the Dodgers should 
coast to a division title. Raul 
Mondesi will also put up 
huge numbers.
2) Colorado: They’ll rock their 
way to a second place finish.
3) San Diego:
Reigning MVP 
Ken Caminiti and 
an aging Tony 
Gwynn won’t be 
able to make the Padres repeat.
4) San Francisco: Their 1997 
payroll: Barry Bonds $11 million; 
the rest of the Giants: $11 mil­
lion. It’s too bad the best player in 
baseball has no one to play with.
American League
East
1) Baltimore: The Orioles have 
the pitching, the hitting, and the 
defense. And come October, they’ll 
have the pennant as well.
2) Toronto: The Blue Jays are the 
most improved American League 
team, picking up Clemens, Benito
Santiago, 
and 
Merced. 
However, 
they’re still a 
year away 
from a playoff 
appearance.
3) New York: I 
feel awful that the 
Yankees won’t 
win a thing this 
year. Sorry, 
losers.
4) Boston: It’s 
sad to say, but de­
spite baseball’s 
best infield my 
beloved Sox 
will be bat- 
tlingfor third 
place. Hey, at 
the very least 
the Yankees 
won’tmakethe 
playoffs.
5) Detroit: You 
know all those 
players the Pirates cut in spring 
training? They’re playing in De­
troit now.
Central
1) Cleveland: They lost Albert 
Belle but traded for Matt Will­
iams. If the Tribe can get a big 
year from Chad Ogea, watch out.
2) Minnesota: Marty Cordova 
and his Twins will be the sur­
prise Wild Card winner of 1997.
3) Chicago: If they can find 
someone who can pitch, Frank 
Thomas, Albert Belle, and the 
rest of the Pale Hose could over­
take the Indians.
4) Milwaukee: Their biggest 
aquisition of the off-season ? Joel 
Adamson. See you next year.
5) Kansas City: The Royals 
added Jeff King and Chili Davis, 
yet they still don’t have enough 
offense to compete in this league.
West
1) Seattle: A pitching staff led 
byRandyJ ohnson (when healthy) 
and newcomer JeffFassero com­
bined with the offense of Junior 
& Co. will be too strong for the 
rest of the West to beat.
2) Texas: Juan Gonzalez won’t 
be enough to beat the M’s this year.
3) Anaheim: Hey, look every­
body! The Angels changed their 
name from California to Ana­
heim! Isn’t that great? They still 
can’t win.
4) Oakland: If the Bash Broth­
ers can stay healthy all year, the 
A’s might not finish last.
Post-season Award Winners
American League
MVP: Frank Thomas, Chicago 
White Sox.
Cy Young: Mike Mussina, Bal­
timore Orioles.
Rookies of the Year: Nomar 
Garciaparra, Boston Red Sox and 
Todd Walker, Minnesota Twins.
Manager of the Year: Davey
Johnson, BaltimoreOrioles 
National League 
MVP: Chipper Jones, Atlanta 
Braves
Cy Young: Greg Maddux, At­
lanta Braves 
Rookie of the Year: Vladimir 
Guerrero, Montreal Expos 
Manager of the Year: Jim 
Leyland, Florida Marlins
Matt Cuccaro is a junior civil 
and environmental engineering 
student. His favorite cheeses in­
clude American, cheddar, mozza­
rella, parmesan, ricotta, romano, 
camembert, roquefort, and other 
cheeses whose names include the 
letter “r. ”
STUDY 
EUROPE
SYRACUSE
ABROAD
IN 
STRASBOURG
zlhW,irt
“It’s too bad the best player in base­
ball has no one to play with. ”
Tony Yu/Tartan Art Staff
fHluSib
CihHSOSLrHi
CWltLSA 
WO zlhW,i 
RtHihtbIS,b
TOYOTA'S REMARKABLE RAV4
.. The RAV4, Which Corners Better, Rides More Smoothly And Feels 
More Nimble Than Any SUV Made." -AutoWeek, June '96 
"The RAV4 Is A Fun-Junkie's Dream Machine." -Car And Driver, April '96
"Toyota's New RAV4 Seems To Bridge The Cast Chasm Between Car And Truck. This 
Litde Wagon With Big Wheels Is A Car And A Truck." -Cur And Driver, April '96 
"Rally-Car Performance, Camry-Like Quality" -Car And Driver, July '96

---------------------------------------------------

BSÚTtt
\VU)N
The Pittsburgh Oratory
John Henry Cardinal Newman Lecture Series
“Old Ethical Principles for the 
New Corporate Culture”
P-LN kLLL!T•
5F! UNB!LL!b-BL!J UNB!-5-BL!J -Lgiu5-5ii-mii,-5i-B!-5TU! DORM DELIVERY DEAL!
—Ma r ch&tp .m..mCous .seerAT THE REGULAR PRICE AND RECEIVE A LARGE PEPPERONI PIZZA
VALID AT THE OAKLAND PIZZA OUTLET ONLY
Nla fprEW 3Ea1 pGc la1Ae lOOAe• PrApSA MAGaElG RlsqlG 31AG leWAeEGK• !hqEeAS gpc 37J 7997
Fy le rpSa eArEAO OelM a1A GpKKEGK pR1A lOy aphASJ 3A eARlMMAGW 5L---CT!F uT-S• uT-S peA aph- WAOAeAW pGGsEaEAS WASEKGAW al 1Arq DsErW pWWEaElGpr pSSAaS — MlGAc a1pa RpG 1Arq MpdA a1A WEOOAeAGRA DAa3AAG rEfEGK pGW rEfEGK well praAe clse 3ledEGK cApeS peA lfAe•
Instant tax savings.ClGaeEDsaElGS al clse uT-S peA WAWsRaAW OelM clse Sprpec lG p qeAaph DpSESJ Sl cls qpc rASS EG aphAS Gl3• -GW SEGRA ApeGEGKS lG clse uT-S peA prSl aph-WAOAeeAW sGaEr cls eARAEfA a1AM pS eAaEeAMAGa EGRlMAJ a1A MlGAc cls WlGya SAGW al WpS1EGKalG RpG 3led AfAG 1peWAe Ole cls•
Loans and more.W1pa ArSA Wl uT-S lOOAe? - fprspDrA rlpG lqaElGJ qrsS p Osrr epGKA lO EGfASaMAGa R1lERAS pGW a1A OEGpGREpr AhqAeaESA lO 5L ---CT!F —-MAeERp S rpeKASa eAaEeAMAGa leKpGEvpaElG•i
The sooner you act, 
the sooner relief begins.5l OEGW lsa MleAJ Salq Dc clse DAGAOEaS lOOERA le KEfA sS p Rprr pa 7 nii n9o-onnn• WABrr S1l3 cls 1l3 uT-S RpG rl3Ae clse aphAS•,l Ea alWpc• La RlsrWGya 1sea•
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."
‘BsSAW lG JsSRrS sGWAe MpGpKAMAGaJ 
EeEDsaAW Dc 5L---CT!F LGWEfEWspr pGW LGSaEasaElGpr uAefERAS• LGR• Fle MleA RlMqrAaA EGOleMpaElGJ EGRrsWEGK R1peKAS pGW AhqAGSA 
ha• NNi9• Ole p RseeAGa CT!F qelSqARasS• TApW t1A qelSqARasS RpeAOsrrc DAOleA cls EGfASa le SAGW MlGAc• ,paA lO OEeSa sSAI o/97•
The 
interactive
— - commerceR1agaDeaDM SlrsaElG
Connect, Inc. is pushing the envelope with new, cutting- 
edge web technology. We have surpassed the limitations 
of conventional web technology by storing the content 
in an object-oriented database and then dynamically 
generating web pages.
We have openings for skilled applications, system soft­
ware, and quality assurance engineers working on prod­
ucts that include:
Java Development • Advanced Object-Oriented Development 
Network Systems Engineering • Web Application Development 
RDBMS and OODBMS System Engineering
Strong C or C++ coding skills are a must. Experience de­
veloping with UNIX, Visual Basic, Java, HTML, Perl, 
Windows 95 or NT, and familiarity with object-oriented 
design techniques would be a plus.
Located in Mountain View, Calif., Connect is a publicly- 
held company providing a high-energy work environ­
ment, flexible work hours, and a chance for serious engi­
neers to develop leading-edge technology.
CONNECT
http://www.connectinc.com
*** w-kL-N,/
bW uF-,xuL,!
,\£ 4740 Baum Boulevard
0>° 687-9555
de'Free Delivery • Open 7 Days a Week
Sunday-Thursday 11 am-2 am • Friday & Saturday 11 am-3 am
Fr. William J. Byron, S.J.
Distinguished Professor of Management and 
Director of the Center for the Advanced Study of Ethics, Georgetown University 
Former President, Catholic University of America
“It would be regrettable if all those old 
principles just grow obsolete as newer and 
greater challengers appear in the corporate 
culture. Principles such as human dignity, 
integrity, fairness/justice, veracity, and the 
common good.”
— Fr. William J. Byron, S.J., 1996
In these turbulent times of “Business in the ’90s,” come hear how these 
and other traditional ethical principles can indeed hold forth.
'« '* «
Friday, March 21,1997 
7:30 to 8:30 pm 
at The Oratory 
Ryan Catholic Newman Center 
R.S.V.P. to 681-3181 
by March 19, 1997 
Discussion and light refreshments will follow.
Join us. We look forward to your participation.
The Pittsburgh Oratory 
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (Oakland)
Sign up in the Career Center or talk to our recruiting representative who will be on 
campus March 19 & 20th or email your resume to: devres@connectinc.com

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 19979
UraEMpaA GAAWS ellM
ULTIMATE, from page 10
munity that the lights wouldn’t be on 
at night.”
Flagstaff Hill often becomes the team’s 
only venue. “We play on the side of a hill 
all the time, so we’re kinda bummed 
out,” said Vislosky.
The team’s Web page was lauded in 
Rolling Stone last spring.
Their schedule is rigorous: on March 
22, they will play at the University of
Maryland’s Kobayashi Mara Tourna­
ment. March 29 brings them to Rutgers 
for the Queen’s Cup. In April, they will 
play at Penn State’s Spring Phling and 
William and Mary’s Funken Graven. 
Finally, they will head over to Princeton 
for the College Sectionals on April 26.
Interested players should contact 
White or Vislosky or roll on over to the 
web site, http://www.contrib.andre- 
w.cmu.edu/org/ultimate/mryuk.html.
CgU RlsrW esrA a1A DpSAS
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor 
Çaleb White chucks Mr. Yuk.
BASES, from page 10
seems to be good. A team sparked by 
scrappy plays and manufacturing runs, 
they hope to reach far beyond the 500 
mark this spring. “I hope we win them 
all,” co-captain, pitcher, and utility in­
fielder Jay McCormack said. The team 
has no key injuries and, barring any 
unforeseen accidents, should cruise 
through most of their Division II and III 
opponents with a fair amount of ease. 
However there are teams such as Al­
legheny College that has given them 
trouble in the past, and Geneva, a strong 
Division II team that will impose huge 
barriers for them to overcome. 
Westmoreland, the team they were to 
open against, is yet another tough team. 
But this season just might be better 
than expected against these teams. 
CMU’s team is backed by some astonish­
ing pitching and defense. The pitching 
staff, though few in players this season, 
is made up for by the high durability of 
the starters, as they are used in many 
relief appearances as well. The starting 
crew — consisting of the able arms of 
McCormack, Mayes, Steve Wetter, and 
Steve Lopez — should be able to shut 
down their opponents’ offense. In doing 
so, the crew’s two relief stoppers should 
be all it needs.
Both captains McCormack and Scott 
Kepp are expected to put up big numbers 
along with the other veteran players to 
lead the club to its victories. The team — 
surrounded by a plethora of seniors, jun­
iors, and even a few graduate students— 
is highly experienced. Their abilities com­
bined with the talent of the new young 
players should be able to take them to a 
winning record this spring.
You can run...
Jim Pastorius closes in on a Pitt bali-carrier.
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
an Sp
to be
BesEGS RpGya DApe Sape qrpcAeSJ 
Dsa mErMlse MpdAS ,AfErS 1pqqc
On the Net
By Chris Adukaitis 
and Jessica Strelitz
At least Cam Neely retired be­
fore Harry Sinden could trade 
him for a bag of pucks. Not to say 
that March first’s Bruins/Capi­
tals trade that sent Jim Carey, 
Anson Carter, and Jason Allison 
(and a 1997 third-round pick) 
scurrying to Beantown and 
veteran players Rick 
'Tocchet, Adam Oates, and 
$ill Ranford down to the 
capital city was that bad, 
but Bruins fans are livid.
They want Sinden’s head.
They wanted it when Oates 
scored the game-winner in 
his first game as a Cap.
The tension increased af­
ter Carey started his first 
game in black and gold and 
had four goals scored on 
him in his first nine shots.
Sure, he won the Vezina 
last year. But it is well 
known that he sucks it up 
in the playoffs. But that’s 
OK, because the Bruins probably 
won’t make it that far this year.
Everyone knew that Oates was 
going to be traded. It was only a 
matter of time and place. Players 
can’t blast management for moti­
vational purposes. The manage­
ment stripped him of his “A” and 
the players supported him by not 
accepting the reassignment to 
wear it to replace him. You can’t 
replace him. His five-year impact 
has been deep. But with no Neely 
.to feed, he lags, even with 52 
assists. Whatgoodis a playmaker 
without anyone to feed? As for 
Tocchet, he’s used to the shuffle.
He had only been a Bruin for a 
year and has been a member of 
three different teams in the last 
thirteen months. Ranford, who 
started his campaign in the NHL 
as a Bruin in the mid-’80s, is 
accustomed to leaving town after 
a short stay.
There is a very bright side to 
this trade. Youth. All of the vets 
that Boston traded were over 
thirty years old and Carey (22), 
Carter (22), and Allison (21) pro­
vide youth and spirit to the bela­
bored Bruins squad. It is defi­
nitely time to rebuild.
The Devils made a brilliant move 
in acquiring center Doug Gilmour, 
a.k.a. “The Rink Rat,” and
defensemanDaveEllett. Gilmour 
should add some scoring punch to 
a team not noted for its lamp- 
lighting abilities. Ellett is a con­
summate defenseman. He’s a very 
solid defensive player who can 
quarterback thé power play with 
his booming shot. Although the 
Devils had to give up a few future 
prospects, this deal has already 
paid off for Jersey, who is pulling 
close to the Flyers for the top seed 
in the East. The Devils are one of 
the few teams who will give Philly 
trouble in the playoffs. The Leafs 
are now in a rebuilding period and 
this trade should help.
The Rangers and Canucks 
tried to fill some holes in their 
lineup by trading two players a 
piece. Vancouver is hoping Sergei 
Nemchinov will be the center 
that finally makes Pavel Bure 
and Alexander Mogilny click. 
We’ll have to wait until Bure 
returns from the injured list to 
find out. So it looks like 
Mogilny, rumored to be the 
Canuck to be traded, will be 
staying put for a while.
Brian Noonan, a 20 to 30 goal 
winger, also joined the Canucks 
in the trade. The Rangers picked 
up Esa Tikkanen, an ex-Oiler who 
was also in New York for their 
Cup three years ago, again. The 
Rangers are expecting 
Tikkanen to help solidify 
their horrendous penalty 
killing unit, ranked worst 
in the league. Russ 
Courtnall is a speedy right­
winger, who could nicely 
complement either Messier 
or Gretzky.
This is no big deal un­
less the BMN line in 
Vancouver can click. The 
Rangers need to bulk up 
their roster if they want to 
survive against the likes 
of Jersey, Philly, and 
Florida in the playoffs. A 
decent trade for them, but 
it won’t get them the CupTony Yu/Tartan Art Staff
(or even close).
cüli larabraauthentic niiihlle eastern fnnil
n Ta entire
RUGBY POSITIONS 
& CMU’S STARTERS
PROP
2ND ROW
FLANKER/ 
WING FORWARD
WING
1 Mike Schatz
2 CarlTrezza
3 DaveTherkelsen
4 Mike Gingrazes
5 Val Fouron.
6 Stephan Essad
7 Jason Yates
8 Rich Pilston ¦
9 Chia Ming Chen
10 Scott Weber
11 Spencer Berg
12 Jamie Carpi
13 Jim Pastorius
14 Josh Magnus
15 Phil HedgesFULLBACK \
Kevin Babbitt/Tartan Production Manager and Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports EditorTsKDc aeEAS al eAKpEG WlMEGpGRA
RUGBY, from page 10
one last attack to score in the 
half. They broke through CMU’s 
line and were moving towards 
the posts to make it easier for the 
extra-point kick.
“There has to be pressure be­
tween your hand, the ball, and 
the ground,” Lawrence said Fri­
day night at PHI, describing the
necessary procedure to score a 
try. Apparently the Pitt player 
forgot this rale and merely placed 
the ball down between the posts. 
CMU picked up the ball and ran, 
squelching this final threat and 
holding the Panthers scoreless 
for the half.
Much like CMU’s squad at PHI 
Friday night, both sides were
amiable after the matchup. “The 
home team always throws a 
party,” said Lawrence.
“The coolest thing about col­
lege rugby is you go out to 
endeveaor to play this game,” 
Trezza said. “But then after­
wards, everything that’s tran­
spired during the game is forgot­
ten. You get them next year.”
Jessica Strelitz is a junior pro­
fessional writing major who 
wants to thank the University of 
Pittsburgh hockey team for mak­
ing her first journalism-related 
threats so amusing and a re­
minder not to try and slip ineli­
gible players under Kaliena’s nose 
next year.
Chris Adukaitis is a senior civil 
and environmental engineering 
major who can’t believe the Flyers 
lost in OT to Buffalo (especially 
considering the Devils also won).
RrpSSEOEAW
ADOPTION
Pregnant? Caring professional married 
couple hoping to accept healthy baby. 
Willing to pay medical expenses. Call 
toll-free (888) 921-BABY.
ROUSING
South Hills Apartments. $99 move-in 
special. All utilities included. 1, 2, 3, 
bedroom apts. On busline. Call 892- 
0404.
JOBS
Cruise & Land-Tour employment — 
Industry offers travel (Hawaii, Mexico, 
Caribbean), incomparable benefits, & 
good pay. Find out how to start the 
application process now. Cruise Em­
ployment services provides the answers. 
Call (800) 276-4948 ext. C52361. (We 
are a research & publishing company.)
Eastern Europe Employment—Teach 
basic conversational English in Prague, 
Budapest, or Krakow. Our materials 
uncover many rewarding teaching op­
portunities with great benefits. For in­
formation: (206) 971-3680 ext. K52362. 
(We are a research & publishing com­
pany.)
College financial aid — Student Finan­
cial Services profiles over 200,000+ indi­
vidual scholarships, grants, loans, and 
fellowships — from private & govern­
ment funding sources. A must for anyone 
seeking free money for college. (800) 263- 
6495 ext. F52361. (We are a research & 
publishing company.)
Looking for a great part time job? Im­
mediate opening, hourly pay, flexible 
hours, evening hours, great weekend, no 
experience necessary, paid training pro­
vided, bilingual a+. Our national market­
ing firm located in Monroeville is look­
ing for some one like you, intelligent, 
enthusiastic, and articulate. Call (800) 
245-6665 or 372-8300.
SALES
Flowers for birthday, anniversary, ro­
mantic, platonic, and more... Alex's Flow­
ers ... 687-4128 or 687-ALEX... Delivery.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to inter­
national destinations. Good domestic 
fares, AYH, and Eurail passes. 9-5 M-F, 10- 
Noon Saturday. 4608 Winthrop Street. 
Off South Craig. Forum Travel 681-4099.
Rafting rapid fun. Exciting spring time 
rafting in WV. Students save $. Socials 
and retreats. Spring specials end May 
16. Call Mary (800) 419-1442 for info. 
Employment opportunities available.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........................$10.00/wk
21-50 words......................$12.00/wk
51-100 words....................$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
• Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
• On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
• Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
I
Any vegan or vegetarian item j Gyro
25^ off i 25£ off

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
blrsMA 97J LSSsA oi51A 5peapGJ CpeGAKEA gArrlG UGEfAeSEacJ PEaaSDseK1J PAGGScrfpGEp77 gpeR1 7997
Buggy; sans horse.
¦
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor 
BsKKc SApSlG LS EG Osrr S3EGK pa CgU• 5esRd 3AAdAGW ES a1A 3AAd pOaAe SqeEGK DeApd•
TsKDc apdAS MsW Dpa1
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
“When we were the best, we’d 
get [drunk] as hell the night be­
fore and it’d be a given that we’d 
win,” rugby club Scrum Captain 
Carl Trezza said at PHI the 
evening before their Saturday 
game with the University of 
Pittsburgh. But nowadays, the 
team drinks less and, painfully, 
loses more.
“In my experience, before this 
year, we’d only experienced one 
Division II loss,” said club Presi­
dent Chris “Hedgehog” Winston. 
“We had a lot of people graduate.” 
Winston himself is sidelined be­
cause of partially tom ligaments
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor 
51A esKDc aApM SaesKKrAW a1elsK1 MsW pGW SGl3 lG upaseWpc•
in his knee, including the dreaded After going 4-4 in the fall season,
gAG Oprr S1c lO qrpclOOS
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
“Ann intense competitive 
spirit is shared between the two
lar matches of the regular season 
yesterday in Skibo Gymnasium.
In the first match of the after­
noon, CMU came in fighting for a 
Allegheny Converence playoff
“You either come to play or you ¦re 
worried about the chance to go to 
the next step. ”
— David Jensen 
men’s volleyball coach
of us,” said men’s club volley­
ball coach David Jensen of the 
growing rivalry between the 
Community College of Allegh­
eny County and CMU.
The Tartans hosted CCAC and 
Robert Morris in their final regu-
berth. CCAC entered the match 
second in the conference. Only the 
top two teams go to the playoffs, 
and a win would have put CMU in 
the post-season in place of CCAC.
“We were pretty much in con­
trol the whole game,” Jensen said
of the first game in the best of 
three match. CMU won 15-8.
“[The] second game was a good 
game, a long battle,” Jensen 
said. Eventually, the Tartans 
went down 11-15 and a third 
deciding game was necessary.
“[The] third game, there was 
a lot more pressure on us,” said 
Jensen. CMU’s squad in only 
in their first year. The team 
consists of 99 players who have 
never played competitive colle­
giate volleyball before. “[At this 
point] you either come to play 
or you’re worried about the 
chance to go to the next step.” 
The team was one game away 
from the playoffs. Evidently, 
they were more worried and 
prepared.
“They really handled us,” he 
Please see SHY, page 7
anterior cruciate. “I walk on it no 
problem,” Winston said. “But if I 
were to take another hit I’d be 
through.”
“We gathered here today to de­
cide who’s going to start for the A- 
side and the B-side,” said Trezza. 
He and Winston 
spent over half an 
hour pounding out 
the A-side’s 15 po­
sitions. The team 
has had problems 
with positions, 
both on the field 
and off. Winston
also performs as ----------------
the team’s Trea- 
surer and Trezza does double 
duty as the Social Captain. “The 
Reverend” Jim Pastorius serves 
as back captain.
“Basically, we were able to put 
the people that had the talent 
and play them in the key posi­
tions,” Winston said, in reference 
to the dominating CMU rugby 
teams of years past. The Tartans 
were Midwest Division II Cham­
pions in 1993, 1994, and 1995.
the team opened the spring 
against Clarion.
“They didn’t have any posts, we 
played a rugby game without 
posts,” said Brad Lawrence, a 
member of the Pittsburgh Harle­
quins, who lends his coaching
“In my experience, before this 
year, we’d only experienced 
one Division II loss. ”
— Chris “Hedgehog" Winston 
Rugby Club President
skills to the team. “[It was like 
playing] on a graveyard,” Trezza 
said, describing the field with­
out the posts. The lack of posts 
led to a discrepancy; the final 
(accounts of the score range from 
12-5 to 12-7 to 14-7) is still in 
doubt, but the outcome isn’t. 
CMU was victorious.
Unfortunately for the Tartans, 
Saturday’s match-up with Pitt 
didn’t remain in doubt for long.
Pitt led 35-0 at halftime, often 
making big gains when it seemed 
that only one more defender was 
needed to bring the Panthers 
down. The teams ran and 
wrestled on a mud-laden field, 
playing in infrequent snowfall 
and sometimes sunshine. “Will 
it ever end?” a Pitt 
player asked, refer­
ring to the apparent 
rout after they scored 
for a fifth time.
In the second half 
CMU dug in on Frick 
Park’s lower field, de­
termined to stop the 
onslaught. The Tartans 
pulled together stron­
ger defensively after the break. 
Pitt approached CMU’s goal-line 
many times, only to be turned 
away by a strong surge or sure 
tackling. The Tartans made a few 
offensive strides of their own, only 
to panic when they ran out of field 
or make tactical errors that would 
inevitably incite shouts from 
Lawrence on the sideline..
Late in the game, Pitt mounted 
Please see RUGBY, page 9
Ultimate team needs 
a home of their own
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Intramural Ultimate Frisbee team 
enjoys Twizzlers and peanut butter cups 
on long drives, is 40 members strong, 
and hates their practice space. Eleven 
members of the team went to Philadel­
phia for a tournament this past week­
end and have a busy schedule in the next 
few weeks.
Ultimate Frisbee, for the uninitiated, 
is kin to lacrosse or soccer, although it 
requires more running. There are seven 
people on a team and the frisbee must be 
caught in the end-zone to score. There 
are some small intricacies, but overall it 
is a fast-moving, vivacious sport that is 
over 04 years old, but has only recently 
come into popularity.
Caleb White and David Vislosky, co­
captains and CIT graduate students, 
feel confident this year and are thor­
oughly enjoying themselves. They in­
vite you to do the same. “We’re always 
accepting new members, male and fe­
male, even if you haven’t played be­
fore,” said member Ed Sanchez, CIT 
graduate student. He, along with White 
and Vislosky, is preparing to organize 
a women’s team provided they get 
enough females.
The major concern the team has this 
year is the availability of practice space.
“We are obviously below varsity sports, 
which is fine, but we are also below IM 
sports,” said Vislosky. “It’s basically a 
question of [the IM department] being 
somewhat inconvenienced.”
Gesling Stadium is used for softball 
fields during much of the spring. The 
grass IM fields can’t be used at night. 
“[Assistant athletic director Tony 
Wingen] told me that there was some 
agreement with the Squirrel Hill com- 
Please see ULTIMATE, page 9
Club team brings the good wood
attend to too many obligations other 
than baseball.
Janeda’s experience last fall began 
with a disappointing five-game losing 
streak before storming back going 5-3 
the rest of the season. Several other 
new faces have joined the team as well. 
These new players — Phil O’Hara, 
Matt Botchik, and Raphael Taverez — 
will most likely jump into immediate
ByTONY YU
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
CMU’s baseball club planned to open 
its 26-game season this weekend in a 
double header at Westmoreland Col­
lege, but the games were cancelled.
Given this fact, the squad of guys is 
even more anxious to get on the field 
than you might expect. This year’s
bunch has a few new ____________
looks on the team 
since the previous 
spring season.
The most notable is 
the new face of coach 
Bob Janeda. Janeda is 
no stranger to the
game nor to the team. He was the starting roles for the team, or at least 
former assistant coach under Scott compete for the spots.
Smith who had been the coach of the For the past several weeks, the team
squad in the years past. Janeda had has held regular weekend outdoor 
his first taste of CMU ball as head practice at Gesling Stadium in addi- 
coach during the fall season where he tion to their regular weekday routine 
first took over when Smith had to twice a week. This has allowed them
“I hope we win them all. ”
— Jay McCormack 
co-captain, pitcher, and utility inf ¡elder
to go beyond the batting cages, run­
ning, throwing, and other assorted 
drills. Even split squad practice games 
were held last weekend for the ensu­
ing season.
The practices have whipped these 
players back into form from their slum­
ber over the winter, though most play­
ers have kept in shape the past winter 
with intramural basketball and other
______________ sports. The teamhas
been playing well 
during practice, with 
their lead-off hitter 
Ramon Poo striking 
the ball consistently 
and running well.
Also powerful Steve 
Wetter has been sending shots to the 
deep gaps and power alleys. On the 
pitching side, Jonathan Mayes’ arm 
has never been as strong and his 
pitches never as sharp.
The outlook for the team’s season 
Please see BASES, page 9
-OaAe DEK rlSSJ rpRelSSA SaERdS alKAa1Ae
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
On the field, the men’s lacrosse team looks like a rag-tag, 
motley crew at best. Few teammates play in the same jersey, 
one player wears a shirt saying “Allegheny,” and club presi­
dent Derek Jander has to tape his number 14 on. The team’s
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor 
,AeAd JpGWAe KlAS Ole p OpSa DeApd pKpEGSa melfA CEac•
uniform problems stem from a new fee the University re­
quires manufacturers to pay.
“Any item that carries the CMU name, the company has to 
pay a $50 licensing fee,” said team member Aron Ralston. The 
club has had trouble finding a manufacturer willing to pay 
the fee in order to make only about 20 or so jerseys. “We could 
pay it, but the administration wants the manufacturer to 
[pay for it],” said Ralston. Thus the lacrosse team went into 
their season opener Wednesday night in their uniquely indi­
vidual attire.
In the first half against Grove City Wednesday, the team 
came apart at the seams. Down 3-0, the squad finally got on 
the board with a score by junior Jay Miolla on the team’s first 
shot attempt of the game. But Grove City continued to score, 
throwing in nine more scores before halftime. Facing an 
insurmountable lead, CMU came out and played tough de­
fense against the bigger, precisely executing, and better 
dressed team. The Tartans gave up just three goals in the half 
and added one of their own, making the final score 15-2.
CMU followed up this gritty half of play with another game 
Thursday night against Slippery Rock in Gesling Stadium. 
Slippery Rock started the game with a score after winning the 
opening face-off, but Jason Louie would keep the team just 
ahead of the opponent, scoring two goals in the first half.
“We’re starting to pull together,” said Louie, who continued 
to draw defenders in the second half.Please see UNIFORM, page 7
Sports: Up and Coming.
Men's Club Volleyball 
Playoff games as yet undetermined. 
Men's Club Lacrosse 
April 4-6, Seventh Annual Pittsburgh Lacrosse Shootout
Rugby
Tennis
Scheduled match cancelled. Next match versus 
Greensburg, April 19 
March 23-29, Hilton Head, South Carolina
Ultimate Frisbee 
March 22-23 Kobayashi Maru Tournament, at the 
University of Maryland 
March 29-30 Rutger's Queen's Cup 
April 5-6 Penn State Spring Phling
Send sporting event information to cc8p@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 20The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 March 1997
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Greek Singtakes center stage
1997 Greek Sing Winners
meAAd uEGK 7997 qpeaEREqpGaS EGRrsWAWI (RlsGaAeRrlRd3ESA OelM alq) 
Phi kpqqp 51Aap pGW kpqqp -rq1p 51Aap qAeOleMAW “TAGa;" uEKMp P1E 
!qSErlG pGW kpqqp kpqqp mpMMp S1l3RpSAW “Lp CpKA psh FlrrAS;" 
,Arap mpMMp pGW ,Arap 5ps ,Arap RlMDEGAW Ole p qelWsRaElG lO 
"FllarllSA;” ,Arap UqSErlG qeASAGaAW “uEGKEGB EG a1A TpEG•"
Event spotlights charity
wfAeprr WEGGAeI
Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa Alpha 
Theta: “Rent"
C1pEeMAGyS C1lERAI
Delta Upsilon: “Singin’ in the Rain"
gEhAW ,EfESElG WEGGAeSI
FEeSa PrpRAI (Tie) Phi Kappa Theta and 
Kappa Alpha Theta : “ Rent” & Delta Tau 
Delta and Delta Gamma: “Footloose" 
uARlGW PrpRAI Kappa Delta Rho and 
Zeta Psi Sigma: “Pulp Fiction"
51EeW PrpRAI Sigma Phi Epsilon and 
Kappa Kappa Gamma: "La Cage Aux
uEGKrAS ,EfESElG WEGGAeSI
FEeSa PrpRAI Delta Upsilon: “Singin' 
in the Rain"
uARlGW PrpRAI Alpha Epsilon Pi: 
“How to Succeed in Greek Sing 
Without Really Trying"
51EeW PrpRAI Sigma Alpha Epsilon: 
“Godspell”
By DANIELLE PIERATTI
Tartan Staffwriter
“And now for something com­
pletely different... again. And if you 
know the words, please sing along 
because we need all the help we can 
get!” The brothers of Beta Theta Pi 
opened up their performance at 
GreekSinglastSaturdaynightwith 
the music of Billy Joel, Bruce 
Springsteen, and Bob Marley and 
this reminder to the audience.
Theirs was just one of the many 
crowd-pleasers that elicited an en- 
thusiasticresponse from the crowd 
at Greek Sing 1997, which took 
place on Saturday night in Sol­
diers and Sailors Memorial Hall in 
Oakland. Once Sigma Nu opened 
the show with their rendition of 
“Willy Wonka and the Chocolate 
Factory,” the excitement and en­
ergy of the actors and spectators 
increased as the night went on, 
and various sections of the audi­
ence cheered wildly for their re­
spective houses on stage.
The skits ranged from struc­
tured and well-organized, such 
as Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s rendi­
tion of “Godspell,” to light and 
humorous, as in Delta Upsilon’s 
production of “Singing in the 
Rain,” to wacky and random, like 
Alpha Epsilon Pi’s “How to Suc­
ceed in Greek Sing Without Re­
ally Trying.” All in all, however, 
Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa Al­
pha Theta stole the show with 
their joint presentation of 
Broadway’s “Rent,” winning first 
place overall and tying with Delta 
Gamma and Delta Tau Delta with 
for first place in the 
Mixed Division.
'“We were kind of shocked at 
the end when it happened,” said 
Tracy Coalter, a senior statistics 
major and member of Kappa Al­
pha Theta. Some anxiety had 
arisen when the skit ran over the 
time limit of 99 minutes.
“We were pretty confident that 
we were gornia do really good.... 
Every show was good but Fm just 
glad we won,” said Dave Dybes, a 
member of Phi Kappa Theta and 
freshman in chemical engineering.
“I think [Greek Sing] really 
brings the Greek community to­
gether,” said Coalter. “It’s a good 
way that we can have a philan­
thropy thing together,” she said.
Over the past years, Greek Sing 
has taken this philanthropic ele­
ment very seriously. It has contrib­
uted funds to numerous charities, 
including the central blood bank, 
financial aid for cancer patients, 
and services for people with AIDS. 
This year Greek Sing kept with the 
Greek society’s previous partner­
ship with the Pittsburgh Public 
Schoolsin donatingthe event’s earn­
ings to the public school system in 
the form of a grant. The money goes 
into a pool that is available for 
schools, but each time some of it is 
used, the funders here at CMU 
must be consulted. This allows for a 
continuous link between the Greek 
community and the Pittsburgh 
Public School system. Given the 
size of Saturday night’s audience, 
this year’s show certainly added to 
the tens ofthousands of dollars that 
Greek Sing has raised in the past.
Barry Kaplan, a member of Al­
pha Epsilon Pi, chairman of Greek 
Sing 1997, and junior double ma­
jor in computer science and cog­
nitive psychology, saw Greek Sing 
as a valuable experience. “You 
have all the houses together on 
the stage competing against each 
other but in the end, they raise 
money for a good cause,” he said.
Several members of the Pitts­
burgh community, including two 
members of the Pittsburgh Opera, 
as well as members of CMU’s own 
community, such as Barbara 
Prevost, coordinator of student 
development, and Pat Hamed, as­
sistant to the Dean of Student Af-
fairs, served as judges for the show.
The rest of the winners in­
cluded: Kappa Delta Rho and 
Zeta Psi Sigma, who won second 
place in the Mixed Division for 
their combined effort in “Pulp 
Fiction,” and Kappa Kappa 
Gamma and Sigma Phi Epsilon, 
who took third place for their 
rendition of “La Cage auxFolles.” 
Winners in the Singles Division 
were Delta Upsilon, taking first 
place with “Singing in the Rain,” 
Alpha Epsilon Pi, who took sec­
ond for “How to Succeed in Greek 
Sing Without Really Trying,” and 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, coming in 
at third with “Godspell.”
The Chairman’s Choice Award 
went to Delta Upsilon. According 
to the program, this award is given 
to the organization that shows “a 
distinctive effort in the prepara­
tion of Greek Sing. This award is 
decided upon by the Greek Sing 
Board and is presented to the 
house(s) that has shown dedica­
tion to the show keeping with the 
philanthropic nature of the event. ” 
For those involved, however, 
the performance and what it was 
able to contribute were not the 
only memorable experiences tied 
to Greek Sing.
“It was about six months of 
planning,” said Kaplan, whose 
job included finding a place to 
hold the performance, contact- 
ingjudges, and making decisions 
regarding the philanthropic as­
pect of the event. For most of the 
performers, however, their in­
volvement lasted for the one 
month before the performance.- 
“It started kind of slow,” said 
Dybes. “But the last week we 
rehearsed from about 94 [pm] to 
9 [am] every night.”
“People wanted to go to prac­
tices because we had a lot of fun 
together. We really just had a lot 
of fun and that’s what made us 
have a great show,” said Coalter.

---------------------------------------------------

COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
College Briefs
For CMU’s Design Department, 
Design Career Days is taking place 
on March 19-21.
Design Career Days brings in over 
20 design firms. Both undergradu­
ate and graduate design majors can 
interview with these firms, as well as 
see presentations by representatives 
from each firm.
The Career Center and the De­
sign Department are the sponsors, 
and are also hosting seminars in 
resume and portfolio critiques.
Contact Design Department repre­
sentative Melissa Cicozi (x8-1535) or 
Karen Litzinger from the Career Cen­
ter (x8-2064) for more information.
Dr. Jan Czamecki of the Symcrude 
Canada Ltd., Edmonton Research 
Center is the guest of the CIT college 
this week. Czarnecki is speaking in 
DH 2105 on March 20 at 4:30 pm. 
Czamecki’s topic, “Application of 
Coloid and Interface Science to Bi­
tumen Recovery from Oil Sands 
(Making Oil from Sand—Canada’s 
Best Kept Secret)” is part of the 
CIT’s program entitled, “Colloids, 
Polymers and Surfaces.”
William Goetzmann, of the Yale 
School of Management, found star­
tling results about expected return 
in equity markets in his paper en­
titled “A Century of Global Stock 
Markets.” Goetzmann used a global 
database to examine long-term his­
tories for world equity markets.
At 3:30 pm, March 20 in Posner 
Hall’s Simon Auditorium, Goetzmann 
will present the paper in a finance 
seminar. Contact Gail Knowlan or 
Ann Papuga for further information.
On March 19, as part of the Visit­
ing Writers Series, screen and fic­
tion writer Nancy Zafris will speak 
in Doherty Hall 2210 at I pm. The 
lecture is sponsored by the English 
Department and is free and open to 
the public.
Zafris won the Flannery O’Connor 
Award for Short Fiction in 1989. 
She is currently working on a novel 
and a collection of short stories for 
release later this year.
Astrophysicist Edward “Rocky” 
Kolb is the latest speaker in the Buhl 
Lecture Series, sponsored by CMU’s 
Physics department. On April 15 in 
the Mellon Institute at 4:30, Kolb 
will present “From the Primordial 
Soup to Pittsburgh,” which will cover 
the topic of the emergence of our 
present universe from the primor­
dial soup of the “Big Bang.”
Kolb is a professor at the Univer­
sity of Chicago. His newest book, 
Blind Watchers of the Sky, is the 
story of the those who helped shape 
the current view of the universe.
On March 20, at 3:30 in Wean 
Hall 7500, Jon Bentley will speak as 
the next in the series of Computer 
Science Distinguished Lecturers on 
the topic of “Algorithm Engineer­
ing: From Practice to Theory and 
Back.” Bentley is a researcher at 
Bell Laboratories in the areas of 
computer programming and algo­
rithm design.
Bentley’s presentation pertains to 
experimental observations that led 
to new a theory: a three-way parti­
tioning algorithm. He will discuss 
how the implementations of these 
techniques are competitive.
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 1997ON CAMPUS
LARaseA SAeEAS qelMlaAS EMqleapGRA lO rApeGEGK
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
The Center for Innovation in Learn­
ing (CIL) invited Jack Mostow of the 
Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute 
to speak in the most recent install­
ment of the Education Seminar Se­
ries, a lecture series intended to im­
prove education at CMU. Mostow’s 
lecture, “A Reading Tutor that Lis­
tens,” was one of several in this year’s 
series that allowed local educators 
opportunities to discuss educational 
design and research.
CIL’s mission statement is to “fo­
cus CMU’s strengths in technology,
psychology, and communication on the 
problems of teaching and learning.” To 
fulfill this purpose for its staff, the CIL 
brought in noted and distinguished 
cognitive psychologists, like award- 
winning CMU professor John Hayes, 
and many recognized developers of edu­
cational materials, who are pursuing 
research projects in fields like physics, 
calculus, and history.
By building a local community of 
educators in the Pittsburgh area, the 
Education Seminar Series is one way 
that the CIL achieves its goals of im­
proving learning. Twice a month, the 
CIL holds an hour-long seminar in 
the University Center. The speakers
are usually affiliates of CMU and other 
local colleges and universities like 
Robert Morris College, or noted guests 
from other institutions.
Many CMU faculty members have 
been the keynote speaker at a seminar, 
including Susan Finger, associate pro­
fessor of civil and environmental engi­
neering, who spoke on “Learning by 
Doing: Integrating research and educa­
tion in a sophomore design class.” Asso­
ciate Provost for Education Ed Ko spoke 
in a seminar last semester, in which he 
analyzed one of the courses he taught in 
chemical engineering. Ko assessed the 
content and effectiveness of his course 
through the seminar.
Pamela Yocca, administrator for 
the CIL, pointed out that it is easy 
for faculty to get stuck inside their 
own individual departments and not 
think about the actual purpose of 
teaching. The Education Seminar 
Series creates a forum for educators 
to collaborate and think about learn­
ing outside of each discipline and 
discuss ways to ensure that students 
actually learn the information with 
which they are presented.
Anther project that the CIL is cur­
rently working on is the development 
of a second lecture series, the Distin­
guished Lecture Series, slated for 
spring of this year.
PeASEWAGa S1peAS 1ES qAeSlGpr a1lsK1aS
It’s sometimes easy to forget that Robert 
Mehrabian announced his resignation as President 
of CMU exactly one year ago this week. For seven 
years we’ve seen him at CMU functions: graduation, 
the opening of the UC, football games, orientation. 
But soon, we’ll be seeing a different face at all of 
these important activities.
For the first edition of On Campus, The Tartan 
spoke with President Mehrabian to find out what 
he’s really like and what he thinks about his seven 
years on this campus.
The Tartan: Are you involved in the selection of the 
new president?
Robert Mehrabian: I’ve decided not to be. It’s an 
independent selection process. I am committed to 
staying until the new president comes on campus, 
though.
TT: If you could give one piece of advice to the 
person who is going to be taking over your job, what 
would it be?
RM: The most important thing is to first get to 
know the students, faculty, and staff—learn about 
our culture. When I became president, I took a 
significant amount of time to make sure I was really 
familiar with the University. The new president will 
do what he or she thinks is best for him or herself.
TT: You said the new president should take time 
out to learn about “our cultureWhat exactly would 
you say the CMU culture is?
RM: We’re a small community of 11,000 people — 
7,500 are students, 3,500 are faculty, staff, and 
support people. We live on 100 acres, so we’re a very 
close-knit group. We work hard and I hope we also 
enjoy ourselves along the way. It’s an environment 
that’s entrepreneurial, yet it’s very disciplined. It’s 
a very different environment than any of the other 
universities that I’m familiar with. We care about 
our students and how well they do, that’s been a 
major issue in my term — being able to focus on 
students, especially undergraduates.
TT: What is the most important change in CMU 
that you have seen over your seven years as presi­
dent?
RM: The fact that teaching and advising and 
worrying about undergraduate students has taken 
a much more visible position in our everyday life. 
The signs are all there—you look at how much time 
people are spending on improving retention, teach­
ing, advising — that’s the most pleasant thing. Our 
primary reason for being here is to serve the stu­
dents.
TT: So what's next for you after you leave this 
office?
RM: I’m going to take six months to decompress 
before I start looking for another job.
TT: If you could leave here, rest for six months, and 
then start any job in the world that you wanted, what 
would it be?
RM: If I had my druthers, I’d like to make art. It 
isn’t going to happen, though. I like sculpture, I’ve 
done a little bit of it but there were so many people 
who were better at it than I am. I thought it was not 
a good field for me.
TT: What do you think is special about CMU?
RM: CFA is really the jewel that makes CMU 
different from the other competitive schools. It adds 
depth and breadth to the University.
TT:In ten years, where would you like to see CMU?
RM: I’d like to see a lot of activities in small groups 
of students — artists working with scientists ... an 
environment where it’s much more interactive, where 
a lot of our restrictions are taken off of us.... I think 
I want technology to give us the kind of freedom that 
we should and can have to enjoy the learning expe­
rience more deeply and allow us to spend more time 
with each other. I would also like to see administra­
tion stay small in order to be effective. And, in ten 
years, I want to see the Purnell Center as a big 
beehive of activity. That’s the crowning jewel in the 
University’s master plan.
TT: What’s your favorite spot on campus?
RM: CFA. Well, it used to be CFA, but now it’s CFA 
and the UC. On CFA, I love the loggia where we 
carved the niches. I used to visit every few days 
when we were working on them. In the UC, I love 
walking through and seeing students swimming,
exercising, sitting in comers. We were missing 
that.... It’s a great building.
TT: What’s your favorite movie?
RM: The Firm — it’s got actors I really like, like 
Tom Cruise and especially Gene Hackman, I love 
Gene Hackman. It has all the components of a good 
story — it’s intriguing, there’s hard work, and the 
good and bad of society in there.
TT: And your favorite band?
RM: Oh, you gotta go back in my case! I guess 
Aerosmith, are they still around? And I like Eric 
Clapton too, but I also like Madonna.
TT: Favorite artist?
RM: Alexander Calder, the father of mobiles.
TT:Is it really true that you were the inspiration 
for the Mario character in the Super Mario Broth­
ers games?
RM: Everybody always asks me that question! 
It’s not tme. If it were true, I would tell you, but to 
my knowledge, it’s not tme. I don’t even know the 
maker of the game, so I really don’t think so.
TT: If you could sit down with one person, living 
or dead, for dinner, who would it be?
RM: The easy thing to say is Einstein, but I don’t 
think so. I’d love to hear him, but not have dinner 
with him. If I could, I guess I’d have dinner with
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
JpSlG C1prARdEJ p OeAS1MpG RlMqsaAe SREAGRA MptleJ eArphAW lfAe a1A 3AAdAGW Dc S1llaEGK SlMA SaERd•
win id vsaimuii/ lanaii oyuiio c.uuuf
PeASEWAGa gA1epDEpG REaAS -AelSMEa1 pS 1ES OpfleEaA DpGW•
Michaelangelo. He’s not only a great artist, but also a 
brilliant scientist.
TT: What would you want him to say to you?
RM: He could say anything he wanted to! And maybe he’d 
draw on a napkin that I could keep.
Sinking the shot...

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 1997L3
LMpKA MpdAS pG EMqpRa
The Player’s Manual
by Amit N. Kar
Sometime in 1960, the American 
public, notorious for its shallow credu­
lity, proved once and for all that image 
is more important than substance. See, 
one day late in that year, two men got 
up on stage to discuss who was better 
suited to determining the fate of the 
world. One of the men was relatively 
young, handsome, well-dressed, and 
armed with polished charm. The other 
was older, slightly hunch-backed, 
shabbily attired, and seemed to have 
an angry expression permanently 
glued to his face. While such events 
had happened several times before, 
this particular one had the distinction 
of being the first to be televised. It was 
also important because it proved a 
point — while the television audience 
was convinced that the more attrac­
tive man had won the debate, the 
radio audience felt the opposite. But 
this was the beginning of the televi­
sion age, and John F. Kennedy ben­
efited greatly from Nixon’s failure to 
grasp the importance of this.
Okay, I know you’ve heard this 
before — image is everything. Actu­
ally, chances are that you haven’t — 
you are, after all, likely to be a CMU 
student. Well, you may have heard it 
and chosen to ignore it because you 
think you’re such a hot-shot. You prob­
ably think it’s okay to forget about 
basic personal hygiene and wear white 
socks with a pathetic excuse for a dark 
suit because you know so goddamned 
much. You think the people around 
you will ignore your rancid body odor 
and foul breath because they’ll be 
knocked flat by your monstrous intel­
ligence. Hmmm ... nope.
Think about famous CMU alumni. 
Okay, so there are a few CEOs of 
major corporations who came up
through CIT. Otherwise, you’ll see a 
trend in the following names: Steven 
Bochco, Holly Hunter, Rene 
Auborjonois, Bud Yorkin, John Wells. 
They’re all drama or art graduates; 
people who, by necessity, are well- 
schooled in the importance of image. 
The recent U.S. News and World Re­
port rankings of graduate schools 
placed both CIT and GSIA at 14, while 
the graduate art and drama programs 
ranked sixth in the nation. I.would bet 
a good deal of cash that the art and 
drama programs performed better 
largely on the strength of a better 
image and reputation for position in 
its industry than GSIA or CIT have in 
theirs.
There are people here who believe 
that dressing smart is a form of arro­
gance or pomposity. Actually, the op­
posite is .true — those who dress well 
do so because they know they are in 
the position of needing to impress more 
important people. It’s those people 
who think they’re too smart to im­
press on such a superficial, physical 
level, who think it’s okay to walk 
around unkempt, shoddily dressed, 
and reeking of greasy hair, skin, and 
teeth. While it’s one thing to declare 
your independence and individuality, 
it is another thing entirely to express 
it in a way that actively offends rea­
sonable, educated people.
In the end, failing to clean up your 
act can only hurt your career opportu­
nities in the future. At the moment, 
computer science majors can afford to 
flaunt their ‘unique’ approach to at­
tire because they know they’re in de­
mand. That’s all going to change in a 
few, very short years when the mar­
ket will be flooded by programmers 
and IS-specialists from all over Asia 
who not only know their trade as any­
one from CMU, but who also wash on 
a regular basis and reserve their 
trenchcoats for inclement weather.
Given the choice between a hot- 
shot candidate who stinks and car­
ries a staff, and an equally intelli­
gent, if lesser-trained, applicant 
who knows to wear a stiff collar 
with a suit, an employer is almost 
certain to choose the latter. I sure 
as heck would.
Gonzaga-in-Florence 
Italy
Tours of Italy 
and Course Work
Renaissance Summer Program 
May 13 - June 27, 1997 
-and-
Junior Academic Year Abroad Progam
Open to college students, 
professionals, seniors and other adults.
Apply by April 1
Calendr .L10se 
i0f9sos mfncd1rna4 
Cpokane, WA 99258 
509-328-4220, Ext. 3549 or 800-440-5391 
reynolds@gu .gonzaga. edu
Look Who's lea 
The Revolution
MOTOROt
' 1 '
PpKEGK PelWsRaS 
melsq
http://www.mot.com/pagingjobs
World With Potential...
0 Pagers in service will grow from 24.5 million to 
56.2 million by the year 2000.
• Wireless products and services will capture 20% of the 
telecommunications dollar by 2010.
Motorola's Future Of Possibilities...
• Cutting-edge technology # Unlimited career mobility
0 High-profile global presence • People-first philosophy
• Continuing education opportunities on-site
Play a part in developing the next generation of wireless technology. 
Areas of opportunity include:
• Software Engineering • Mechanical Engineering ° Manufacturing 
Engineering • Electrical Engineering ° Computer Engineering
• Marketing ° Accounting/Finance • MIS/Computer Science
• Engineering Rotation Programs " Co-op and Intern Programs
Apply now for Summer Internships!___________
gAWEp qelMlaAS SlREAapr qpSSEfEac
By CARRIE JONES-McGUIRE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
So you’re settling down on the couch 
after a hard day at school for some Must- 
See TV. You’ve got a bag of Doritos in one 
hand, and a refreshing brand-name cola 
in the other. You’re relaxed. Your brain’s 
screen saver is activating. You are drift­
ing past your usual uppity self into the 
passive viewer stance....
Stop right there. Phoebe Enghas a few 
things she’d like to tell you about what 
you’re swallowing along with your Pepsi.
Eng, creator of A Magazine and direc­
tor of the DMI Group, a New York-based 
company promoting intercultural com­
munication, gave a talk entitled “The 
Great Seduction: Media’s Bid for Our 
Hearts and Minds” last 
Monday at McConomy 
Auditorium.
She believes that rais­
ing awareness of what goes 
on behind the scenes at the 
studios, who decides what 
does and does not get said, 
the themes and images 
common to various forms 
of media, and actions any­
body can take to help 
change these things makes 
us able to affect what we 
see and hear.
Eng argues that media 
is a mirror that reflects 
cultural conflicts and 
trends. For example, in the 
postwar 1950s, Superman oe I 
was an ex-football player who embodied 
the American spirit. When she asked 
the audience what he stood for, nearly 
everyone could recite along with her, 
“Truth, justice, and the American way.” 
Now both his image and his function 
have changed.
Today’s Superman, Dean Cain on Lois 
and Clark, is a vastly different charac­
ter. “He is a quarter Japanese. He looks 
a little different. And that has some­
thing to do with how we think about 
ourselves as Americans,” Eng said. 
Nowadays, instead of fighting evil, Su­
perman mostly just protects Lois. “To­
day, we aren’t really sure what truth, 
justice, andthe American way are. We’re 
much more in limbo, in chaos.”
It is this shaky ground that makes the
passive consumption of media so dan­
gerous. “Two-thirds of Americans get 
most of their ideas about the outside 
world from TV,” Eng said. “If we’re tak­
ing a passive stance, then the ideas 
pushed through the media go unques­
tioned, and that’s dangerous.”
It is Eng’s contention that there are 
ideas encoded in media images, and we 
need to know what they are. “We are 
being trained to think alike, to respond 
to the same folklore,” according to four 
basic formulas, Eng said.
One of these is conflict in the media. 
“In the news, if it bleeds, it leads,” Eng 
said. “It’s cheap, you don’t have to spend 
money on investigative reporting, and 
you still have a riveted audience.” The 
news media tends to cover the conflict
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor 
answers students’ questions about media seduction.
angle in any situation. It happens in 
fictional media as well, and as Eng 
claims, “If we remain in conflict mode, 
we forget about shades of gray, and we 
never find our common ground, which is 
where we can start to make change.”
Another aspect which Eng explored is 
how ownership of the media creates 
stereotypes, bias, and a product flood­
ing of the media market. Eng pointed 
out the example of Sumner Redstone.
“He’s able to use his horizontally inte­
grated media empire to translate Forrest 
Gump the movie into Forrest Gump the 
cookbook, Forrest Gump the cable 
movie, and Forrest Gump the 
soundtrack,” Eng said. “Once you real­
ize America loves an idea, keep slam­
ming it to them in different forms.”
Corporate ownership of media also 
limits news shows’ ability to do stories 
exposing corruption in the companies 
that own them.
Sound hopeless? Not yet. Eng is not 
a fatalist. “What you’ll hear tonight, 
regardless of how much I deconstruct, 
is a message of hope,” she said. Steps 
you can take to change the media at­
mosphere include the ones you’re used 
to hearing (boycotting advertisers, 
writing letters, using your consumer 
dollars wisely), and maybe a few you 
haven’t heard before. “Talk back to the 
media. Speak aloud to the TV. Ques­
tion,” said Eng. “Your roommates might 
look at you funny, but it gets you out of 
that passive stance.”
Another strategy is making a point of 
learning from people who 
have been sidelined by the 
media, so that you break 
down “these kind of comic 
book images” which are of­
ten all the media has to of­
fer. “Realize that you’re be­
ing commodified.... Your age 
group is being seen as a 
group of numbers. MTV will 
convince you that you’re in­
dividuals. But you’re being 
marketed as a group with a 
mob mentality,” Eng said, 
noting that most CMU stu­
dents are part of the crucial 
18—24 demographic.
“She presented a view of 
Asian-Americans I hadn’t 
been exposed to before,” said 
Stacy Mitchell, a freshman design ma­
jor. “It gave me a new perspective.” 
“The American media and society ex­
ist in a codependent relationship that 
will end in a bitter divorce,” said Donovan 
Chase, an undeclared freshman in hu­
manities and social sciences.
Eng stayed to speak with individuals 
after her talk, and she encourages corre­
spondence. She wants to bring media 
studies out of the academy and into the 
hands of consumers. “What I think is 
necessary is to show people they can 
become activists,” Eng said. “You don’t 
have to be an academic or a [profes­
sional] activist to change media.”
Any questions on Eng’s subject should 
be addressed to PhoebeEng@aol.com
your /i
The future after college looks brilliant when you're looking into 
joining the brilliantly accomplished professionals of Bellcore. As one of the world's 
largest providers of advanced telecommunications and information networking 
software, we ore a company of exceptional ochievers who have brought about 
fundamental change to telecommunications. Exciting as our past has been, the 
future you can share with us holds even greater promise.
APPLY NOVLfor your chance to work on the boldest initiah'ves in telecommu­
nications with BELLCORE. We will be holding a by-invitation-only Opportunity 
Fair on April 12.
QpportunnyF^r.S^day. Apr
Beta employees Die recognized leaders in the 
cieofion/development of such ground-breaking technologies os ADSL, AIN, 
AIM, ISDN, Frame Reloy, PCS, SMOS, SONET and videoon-demond. Products 
include MedioVantoge software systems for full service networks; the Adopt/X 
suite of Internet products for the World Wide Web; and AirBoss voice, 
messaging and informotion service applications for wireless networks. Since 
1984, we hove received more than 600 domestic and foreign patents for 
technical innovation available for licensing.
lo qualify, you must be completing your Bachelor's or Masters' Degree 
in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering,
Systems Engineering 01 Industrial Engineering and have outstanding 
academic credentials along with the ambition to drive the future of 
telecommunicotions with an industry lender. We would olso considei MBA's 
with on undergraduate technical degree.
Far consideration, RSVP via Bellcore's virtuol ¡ob foir which will run on 
CoreerMosaic, http:/Mww.careermosaic.com/cm/bellcore-vjf. 
It will run from March 19 to 28.
The future we see for you is so btillianL.the world will need a pair of 
sunglasses lo view your accomplishments.
You moy olso foiword your resume with salary requirements to:
Recruiting & Staffing, Dept, Code JF-04-12/97,
Bellcore, 6 Corporate Place, Piscataway, NJ 08854; 
e-mail: j(97002Shr, bellcore.com, [Please indicate depl. code 
in document textl. /Is all resumes aie electronically scanned, please submit 
on plain witHe bond paper, using standard iomat and fonts. Only 
applicants who are being considered will be contacted. No phone calls, 
please. We ore an equal opportunity employer.
Bellcore
www.bellcore.com
Visit our web site at http://www.niot.ec>ni/paj»injyobs. 
Or mail your resume to Motorola Pa^inn Products 
(¡roup, University Relations, 1500 Gateway Blvd., 
Boynton Beach, l;L J1426-8292.

---------------------------------------------------

rtUEU-, YEAH, 1 TECHNICALLY. \ KJMERE YOU60- INGWTTHTHIS?)
f I WOW. \ THATëWHY ÏM HIRING THEHOME- \ LEGSTOPOSE) \A6THEM. /
HERD'S MY PLAN, MR. TRUMP. TM60ING10 SET UPA PICKST UNE AROUNP SABATINI S - A PICKST LINE ^
OF LIMO \ PRJVBRSlf wm
Y QUALITY HOME-' LESS, OF COURSE! HOMELESS WORTHY OF THE TRUMP ¿ 7¿~s¿$J,NAMB!)
( THEY'LL PPÜTESTTHATTHE 5ABATINIS ARE INTERFERING LUfTH THEIR. RJGMT TO MAKE Ç A LIVING! TTLL TURN PUB- \ UC SENTÌMENTAROUNPIN / k A NEW JS^SEYMINUTEN
HIRINGmo?.
f T PONTWANT70 HAVE AW- I THING TOPO WITH 7H£HOME­LESS! THE HOMELESS ARB NOT QUALITY PECPLS! WHAT IF \¿doRP eorouriThe arTtn.A
SE^, BY HIRING T NO! THE HOMELESSA51ABSO- PtCKSTS, I'LL BEkUJTELY SAVING YOU NOT.'ABUNPLS...f1d5^ir—y
WHAT? HELLO? \ SORRY, MUST HAVETHE WRONG NUM-I
r YES.TT 
PIPIYES, 
. TT PIP/
FOR THREE YEARS, HBS TRJEPTD BE REASON­ABLE. BUT FRANKLY, HES ABOUTOUTOF . PATIENCE, CAP!CH£?1
rMR. SABATINI, LET ME LAY IT OUT FOR YOU. YOUR RESTAU - , RANTSTTSONPROPERTY I THAT PON ALP TRUMP NEEPSi I FORA LIMP WAITINGAREA.ß
IPONTBEUEYE \[mm J'M\ YOU. MR TRUMP NOT BEING 19A T0USHBU5- \ CLEAR. MY INES5MAN.BUT \BOSS> ALWAYS HEtWULPNEm GETS WHAT TRYTOINTTMI- k W1EME... r^lALU/AYS.ifa
\ HE'S A PI6,' 1 TELL yOU/ HEUSTOP AT NOTHING!.
f NO... NO,
9 WSI5Nr THEMR. TRUMP 1 KNOW...,
MYFR/ENPi ITH/NK THIS CON­VERSATION IS OVER... i
surr MCtuenacHOW MUCH FORTHESPA-1 [ GHETTI? ^
HOW PO \ YOUTHINK TRUMP r> 
GOTTO L
e.noah-Wotkn, Jd Divv 1 PRICE-1 LAUGHS AT MR HOOO.A. ^ 1 OOP! LAUGHS
HEI5TÖ-
MY?...
FORGET
ABOurrrfi
ANO NOW FOR THE ttOST ) 
ABSURD ACTIVITY OF THE. 
WEEK : THE TINECARD. ]
THERE’S MO PROJECT CODE) 
‘ FOR "STARING AT THE (JALl 
AND FRETTING ABOUT < 
THE REORGANIZATION/’ 
I'LL CALL IT "TRAINING." )
DOGBERT SAYS YOU'RE 1 
AN EXCELLENT 
NEGOTIATOR, RATBE.RT.
VfA
IN501TEDÍ!
MY NEGOTIATING STRATEGY 
15 TO HAVE RATBERT SAY 
SUCH ILLOGICAL THINGS 
THAT IT 
DRAINS 
YOUR WILL 
TO ARGUE.
YOU Cf,N'T WORK 
AT HOME BECAUSE 
VOU WIGHT DO 
UNPRODUCTIVE 
THINGS 
THERE.
I'VE LOST 
W WILL 
TO ARGUE.
r
CwgLCubecause a little bit goes a long way, pal
Dilberf
by Scott Adams
I Aft YOUNG AND 
INEXPERIENCED, r0 
Dv7.C7 7gImC7 FuSC 
p.St7 !m7CFS'ph 
.vSI7kkk
YOU'RE MANAGING 
ME RIGHT NOW, AND | 
ALL IT'S DOING IS ( 
PREVENTING WE 
FROM WORKING.
I NEED YOUR HELP 
TO NEGOTIATE WITH 
MY BOSS FOR MORE 
TELECOMMUTING DAYS.
W
herein there’s this dog and the dog digs dog food 
but not like he digs people food (of course) and 
the dog’s owner doesn’t give him any people food (not 
even scraps). So the dog learns to love dog food, and over 
time, he forgets the sweet taste of people food. The moral 
of the story is that sometimes a dog’s got to make do with 
what a dog’s got. The End; by Comics Guy.
,llGASDsec
by Gary Trudeau
I'M HERE TO NE­
GOTIATE FOR MORE 
TELECOMMUTING 
DAYS._J---------^
WELL, TECHNICALLY,
I CALLED IN SICK, 
WHICH COMES OUT OF 
MY TIME BANK, FOR 
TOTAL DAY5 OFF.
SO, TECHNICALLY, I'M 
WORKING FOR NOTHING, 
BUT I'M AHEAD IN 
PRINCIPLE.
STUPIDITY IS 
* PRINCIPLE.
BEFORE I WORKED HERE 
I WASN'T A THIEF OR 
A LIAR.
| YOU CAN'T GET 
THAT KIND OF 
TRAINING IN 
SCHOOL.
V
YOU SPEND HOURS EVERY 
DAY "DOING E-MAIL." 
HOW DOES THIS CONTRIB­
UTE TO NET AFTER-TAX 
EARNINGS?
I CAN'T LET YOU 
TELECOMMUTE BECAUSE 
THEN I WOULDN'T 
BE ABLE TO MANAGE
TODAY I LEARNED THAT 
ALICE CAN STUFF MY 
ENTIRE BODY INTO ONE 
SHIRT SLEEVE.
I'M TOO LOGICAL i
TO BE A GOOD |
NEGOTIATOR,. YOU | 
NEED SOMEONE ! 
WHO IS RELENT- ! 
LESSLY IRRATIONAL. ‘
BUT THEN rr
pakln'-alC 
96bBy6vs6y ,PEOPLE, WO, / RIGHT? /
Back from the Dead 
Art Files!
Once Again, Comics Guy gives you a taste of The Tartan 
Comics of yesteryear, totally out of context. This one 
was from a detective-fox strip called Remington Foxx.
What it means is your best guess. We know nothing 
about it, except that at one time, it was funny.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 MarchL5
UH6\ LI CAL- CORP •1d2 %kc
ME Tool X'VF 
WHP\T/S TH\S got no waist. 
CRAP? T'^ 9 ¿oulsn'tF i r stf slopv de
Fb uy,ocK spdr Sliaw&i
L_ /r\ L
¿¡¡¡a
c'i-
L
You KNOW WHAT'LL 
HJ\PPEH kC Sv TakpCtk 
ink? WE'LL S£ ELXT/VCT/ 
<S-0/V£7 -THIS WHOLE TOVJ/V 
WOULP WSAr*EAK{ »£'*? 
POOA7E1?) XT'S tffiAKIPLEj
' 5cB'- So S'
I_L
5FLu 3FQaa 5wW/\| Lu -LL
ng.ssE.i7 uf) evekything- 
15 MisiiNGrj XT''5 Alu 
0nE- big- 6LANK.1 X
\WiNL7!•L? WF-5Bu (t-QEN/ae wOJ•
<-C?f
JLÀ
~ri li_ tElL You v HAT^ &o9nG- I
ON-- XT'S THE INK J WE'RE 
RuNWIWir OKT OF INK1. EVEl^Y- 
OME IS OEINGr CARELESS 
ANP WASTEFUL' AN(7 NOV/ 
WE'RE FAYIW& THE PtflCEl
Ç.
V,
THouOUT lk
TH^Tl ÏT PRogftßLY Ula.s
¡3£ TOO COMPORTARLE— SUT X meU!uÍ L5 Cl3Eq WiE?k•
LOOK) OLI? AIR. 
RUB&k IS 
USING- M P.S. 
ftuSER TO 
PICK A LoCkI
fy
The FD&C Yellow 
No. 5 Comics Survey
We want to know what you want to be splitting 
your side about in the comics section. So this is 
your chance! Send this handy-dandy clip-out 
survey to us via campus mail and let us know. 
You can also email kk4i with the answers!
1. Which comics do you read regularly?
Dilbert
Doonesbury
Graniteville
Ilios
Japanese Beetle 
Non Sequitur
Over the Hedge 
Peds
Robotman 
The Killer Cheek 
Twisted Pete 
Umbilical Cord Fred
2. What comics would you like to be reading 
regularly?
3. Are you a sheep? (circle one) Yes No
4. How can we make you laugh?
sendto:
Comics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17
\
cu>l
CUE-Ci
1
cut
CD
ove Cz 's
creator, You hmb 
TOLV ME M/HAT T 
/\M AfJX> Hou>l 
WAS MAPfj B VT 
fJEVFR---- WHY?
©n't? Ji'm A\cc„,
'^wprifw hJEFPSDy—
Y...J HA Bopy..
Ttí-e rtnDiDivtes 
vtoti Peine? Bir/c-V] 
ßeH/K)t> sEdfANwS
we \JJAVT£1> To 
vChw Nvtr a 
EodY OF FierSH— 
/lMt> n cz^a-tS 
THAT H¿r VesDEP 
THer TecHVIQVe?.
IT LooK$ LIKE 
you COVL.D vse 
A SHA\/e... 
<SHlLe>
Jd fakk-n' oOPPP 
c TS <sHowlUGt VPt
/</ // J \ \
^t>RAW CoHlCSFORTHETaRTAN/
^ // / Il I \\xS&
For more info call Julee White at 268-2111 or email jwhite
EXCLUSIV^ENGAGEMENT! /OAKLAND
BMGSCME/E**! EB7-9428
4:45, 7:30, 10:15 +2:00pm Sat, Sun

---------------------------------------------------

V!i=y
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 1997
by Jim Meddick
vmyWHY ASE ) GUNTER AND SERTA H AME YOU ( BECOME FINICKY EATERS .THEY PUTTING \WON'T EAT CANNED FO0P...ONLY STRINGS \ FRESH MÉKT.-AND IT HAS ON THAT h 10L00KP.LWEÎ-
CHICKEN?/ —-P=fnr'ifes'&r ‘
C'toOHGÜNTES? • C'MON,SERTA ¦ LOOK WHAT UNKM BROUGHT...
' nTux^rpf''»^-
¦WESE.THKrWOlT.'THBlf X IÇottTKNOW 
ALWAYS 60 FOR IT WH6NX \ WHKT SCARES 
MAK6 IT DO WE CANCAN! ) WE WORE -.
GÜNTER ANP 
' V SEftTA OR HIS
VlfPV UÍÜ \PERS0NAUTY.
SPEED CHECKED 
BY PATROL CAR 
COMING UP 
BEHIND YOU
mß.
GuNTER \ YEAH,BUT WERE OUT OF AND / FRESH MEAT SO I'VE SERTA \ NOISED A CAN OF ALPO AR6ST|U.\ TO RESEMBLE A -S BEING k CHIPMUNK-- J ¦ FINlCKy I
THEY'RE Nt5r\HERE. MAYBE THIS 
FALLING FOR IT. ) TAPE RECORDER. 
—,r—r7 WILL COMPLETE S> « THE ILLUSION. IT'S
>XA[ ' I SOT ALVIN ANP 
jjrtflji THE CHIPMUNKS' 
5*3 CHRISTMAS
Wq f'LBUW' °N IT-
Äk Uft-WJST y-~^ ^ypNCmTU. I DON'T ¦'A REPLACE l Í0SH.
-É&WRTOE .VL_,
...WE CALL 
T14I4 ONE THE
l-GoT-MWE- 
Co-To- 
UELL-WITU- 
EVEHYo NE-ELÍE 
BLUES...
AN 
EVENING- 
AT TUE
Cliwlixse
BLUES
CLUB...
vmy
HEV, NiOONPOG, PIP YOU SEE ANYONE. COME 
UP TO THE BACK OF THE CAR WHILE WE ^=3 W-B- WIWÍWWS?
HO.XWPM'T / WELL,SOMEONE SEE ANYONE . 'WROTE IN WE 
1 THINK I \ DUST ON THE FELL ASLEEP \ BACK OF THE 
LlSreniNSTO /v. CAR- 
THE RABIO, w&r *7-1r—"
WELL,HAOT-WR- HAp.-ISWT THAT 
ORIGINAL?/
m
VIlsKs-
fnw deca fnCehL
I KEEP POWN HERE 
ARE KAY STILTS, (AY 
BEACH BALL AND 
. IAY LITTLE PLASTIC 
\" TUGBOAT... .
OH, NO (TOE BASEMENT 
EUX3P6P 
i A&AIW!
FEAR HOT, N\' 
FRI6NP...ALL t 
WEU, ANP I I 
V AT PEACE-
> Monty,lMw adt -TOW HERE? is 
EWW1NÖ k RUIN6P?/
AIL THIS TIME 
S Fm0mG5F
boJsrr
CEILING’ 
WAS JUST A 
FIGURE oF 
SPEECH...
MONTY' YOU '• 
HOW?-. X...
vmy™
You KNOW,THE BUPDHA ONCE SAIP;"EVEN 
IF ALL HIS UFE A FOOL ASSOCIATES WITH 
A WISE MAN, HE WILL NOT APPRECIATE 
THE TRUTH, BIEN AS TUE SPOON ROES NOT 
APPRECIATE THE FLAVOR OF THE SOUP- "
WEIL,T GUESS THKT 
MAKES ME THE 
WISEMAN IM'THIS 
RELATiONSHip.I'VE 
ALWAYS L\KEP 
SOUP A LOT MORE 
> THAN YOU P0-
HEV,lßOK!MY 
LETTERS SPELL. 
OUT "BOOBY "/
MY GUESS IS 
KSSEETIVENESS 
TBMNIN&...
IMv LEAVING. AS THE BUDDHA ONCE SMP- 
"IF, ASONE LIVES,ONE COES NOT FIND A
Ddx/TeCde Pnd is SwffwM a? wutTc r 
cwfdew /tMLtw Pw LdcCfTMa DdCmMLw1
^------J***, WERE CAN BE NO >_¦
#ful 9wccdPLnC/ Wtw iKFOOL." /
GO AHEAP. LEAVE1. SEE IF 
I CARE! IT JUST MEANS 
MORE CRACKERS FOR ME'- 
. UÀ'- UA'- X GUESS THE 
^-£37 LAST lAUSH'S 
' fg—ILI ONYOUSUYS.'
¦ UA! HA! HAj.
' UN... > 
I'VE GOTTA 
SET 0*6, WTDO... ,
WELLjI GUESS ' 
THAT LEAUES iUST 
VTHETWOOFUS. .
...AND SEND 
A MEMO To 
MY FAMILY INFORMING 
THEM TUAT 
I WAVE IT 
ALL.
WU tSSEN
NOREEN'S CONTRACTIONS ARE SECONDS APART!...
/ iiu, nUA Ur- 'NATE’S PC TO THE GENERATOR ANP LINK IT TO VERNE'S v LAPTOP! yPONT TELL 
ATE yOHRE US/N6AOL"
' ANOTHER SO > BUSY SIGNALS WILL QUALIFY US FOR kFREE ARROGANT SHRUG FROM STEVE CASE!
VERNE, UPLINK TO THAT "LET'S BIRTH A . SABYJ WEB SITE. .by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
-I ...MOST BIRTHS ARE ROUTINE/ FOR § THOUSANDS OF YEARS, WCMEN HAVE c BEEN DOING THIS W/THOUT HELP... . I L SO, GO AHEAP/... y
NOREEN'S IN LA&OR IN THE MIDDLE Of AN ICE STORTI... NO POWER..MO PHONE...
.BIRTH THAT BA&Y/Í... yNATE’S MORE OF A mm PAN. .
HONEY, LET'S TRY 10 REMAIN CALM...YOU'VE HEARD OF BIRTH COACHES?/ CANT 6ET ON THE "LEVS 0/RTNA BABY“ WEBSITE//
ITS THE / ICE STORM/ NOREEN'S f NOT THE ONL Y ONE STUCK I AT HOME /N LABOR/ TRY V ANOTHER SITE!!
UM-M-M...HOW ’BOUTTHIS?...
GEE .TX ( 1 DON’T KNOW, I V jyERNE...
/ IT’SX I( VIRTUALLY\ /{ mi SAME/J
1 WaL,WE HAVE b NO CHOICE.S GO AHEAD...S. TYPE THE INFO 3 INTO NATE'S S.. COMPUTER.
.tepp 'en ouv. PUSHH 'EM OUT/. WAYYYYYYOUT//nre ^tav-tak Tfpe-^ »TAK- «ß
HONEY, THERE MUST BE SOMETHING WE CAN PO ABOUT YOUR PAIN/
NORENE'S CHOKING THE UFE I OUT OF I HIM/ j
YAOOWHM/,,,IOsWs DysSWNRSf Isd Wi vsd pCT MUCH j] YA LOVE AIE... p.
TWtm^NATE* 9 CAnTX Wffl BELIEVE you PUT \ ¦T ON THAT HORRIBLE )¦ \ scm/ j
IT’S DISTRACTING HER FROM THE PAIN! CRANK /T 
UP// /HAV/N' MYr \CiBABY...J\
S-H
aHERE COHES ANOTHER CONTRACTION.
NOREEN, THE COMPUTER/...ITS ON/...
rNATE, I’M HAVING A BABY AND YOU WANT TO PlAY ’POD/T
NO, I MEAN. ITS ON AND DOWNLOADING. INFORMATION ON... HOW TO DELIVER A BABYf/
1 COULP PO WITHOUT THE W/THERING, SARCAST/CGRAMMATICAL CR/T/QUE WHILE TM TRY/N6 TO
HELP CREATE UFE.. --__OKAY F// .
•DELIVER THE HEAD, FOLLOWED BY THE SHOULDERS AND THE HOOFIES AND TAIL WILL . FOLLOW..."
YOUMISSPELLED,‘HOOVES.*
" YOU’RE KIDDING:
MUST BE A TYPO. J
J YOWEEE/// NATE/' THE \ CONTRACTIONS ARE GETTING 1
V TCuenUW G
^riiis Ln1aR RsFpTc71fdh Ga YOURGOT NATE IN WAY ! LAPTOP AND UPL INK. OVER HIS HEAP... I I'VE GOT KF1AN...
^BÜTTiÆ^ ICE STORM!... WHAT ABOUT ELECTRICITY7
ME HIM ANOTHER TRIPLE LATTE//
cYs'My^ ITS > YOUR SPECIAL . GIFT.rmoshrPOb/ER/.'' WHY DO/ > ALWAYS HAVE TO BE THE GENERATOR FFCarnegie Mellon University’s 
Student Newspaper Since 
1906

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 20DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 March 1997
CFA Celebrates Wats:On? Festival of the Arts
FASaEfpr qelMlaAS EGaAepRaElG
By SCOTT SHELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon was flooded with 
incredible creativity last Tuesday and 
Wednesday. Students experienced ev­
erything from musical architecture and 
Internet art to cultural telephone booths 
and comedic philosophy. The avant- 
garde embraced the classical, and the Morreal, founder of
students and staff. 
Speakers included 
Charlie Bailey, chief 
model maker at Indus­
trial Light and Magic; 
Stelarc, a performance 
artist who explores 
limitations of the hu­
man body; and John
artistic met the academic.
The force behind these events was the 
College of Fine Arts’ Wats:on? Festival. 
The two-day exhibition celebrated the 
life of architect Jill Watson, graduate 
and adjunct instructor at Carnegie 
Mellon who died in the TWA .800 crash 
last August. Watson was known for her 
originality in architecture and the Fes­
tival emphasized Watson’s philosophy 
of cross-disciplinary studies in the arts. 
As noted in its mission statement, “The 
goal of Wats :on? is to encourage an inter­
section across the arts in the College of 
Fine Arts.”
To emphasize this intersection, CFA 
meshed a number of widely-known pro­
fessionals with the talents of its own
Lisette Mlller-DIxon/Tartan Photo Staff 
Stelarc demonstated his robotics on students.
Humorworks. CFA’s 
students presented, 
among other things, 
piano recitals, coffee 
art, electronic music, 
and an exciting open 
performance of 
Drama’s Hair.
The Wats:on?
Festival’s talents lit­
erally transformed 
part of the campus.
The exterior and in­
terior of the Fine Arts building were 
painted with gold, blue, and red light­
ing. “Lines of Power,” an architectural 
demonstration by Steffi Domike, 
marked the floors with interweaving 
bands of the same colors, con­
necting the administrative of­
fice hierarchy. Margaret 
Morrison Hall wore quotes from 
Watson through spotlights and 
abstract art: “space is not per­
manent.” The University Cen­
ter donned yellow patio lights 
and sandbag candles.
But the true highlights of the 
Festival were its events and 
their academic versatility. 
“Fold,” by Duane McDiarmid, 
was an artistic interpretation 
of chaos, catastrophe, and ran­
domness. McDiarmid noted that 
the Festival made a positive ex­
perience from Watson’s death, 
much as “Fold” looked at virtue 
in disaster. “I think it’s won­
derful the way the Festival has 
created another mode of learn-
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
The percussion ensemble played during closing ceremonies 
of the Wats:On? Festival on Wednesday.
excellent example of how the faculty 
can facilitate learning without ‘teach­
ing/ ” she said.
Its organizers consider WatS:on? a 
success, though they have plans for fu­
ture improvement. “One of the ways it 
could be made even stronger would be to 
work the festival into the curriculum,” 
said Michael Pestel, a Chatham profes­
sor and coordinator of a sound perfor­
mance of Watson’s architectural ideas 
calledlnterspatiality. “[This] wouldraise 
the level of involvement and responsi­
bility from students in the five depart­
ments... I think that this has to be a 
major goal,” he said.
Publicity also seemed to be a prob­
lem. In his speech at the Wednesday 
evening reception, Arthur Lubetz said, 
“I want to see a more festival atmo­
sphere next year ... I want students 
climbing over each other to get in.” 
Lubetz is principal of the design firm 
at which Watson worked. His assess­
ment indicated the future of the 
Watson Festival — expansion and in­
creased implementation, making the
ing for the students. This is an exciting even more inspiring.
Artist leaves legacy despite short career
within the office represents various 
magnifying devices. For example, the 
receptionist’s desk is in the shape of a 
telescope and the other office desks 
look like giant microscopes.
Watson also worked on a Pittsburgh
said Lubetz. A light in the shape of an
By ENA KHAN
Tartan News Editor
Tucked away in a building on Craig 
Street is the Arthur Lubetz Architec­
tural Firm, where Jill Watson worked 
for 10 years prior to her death in the home belonging to Judy Penser, her 
TWA 800 crash. The office is scat- friend who also died in the TWA plane 
tered with drawings, pictures, and crash. The house was designed in the 
models of the buildings and concepts shape of an X. “When you’re in the 
created by Watson since her gradua- center of [the house], it goes to infinity 
tion from the CMU architecture pro- both ways. It expands away from you,” 
gram in 1987.
Her contributions to the 
field of architecture were com­
memorated in the Wats:on? 
festival this past week.
In 1990 she was named 
one of the American Insti­
tute of Architects’ four out­
standing women architects 
in Pennsylvania.
“... The annual festival is of 
great value, it is not a simple 
celebration of Jill and her work 
(although it is veiy much that), 
it is a creative, pedagogical 
process which is immediately 
relevant and which we can all 
learn from,” said Christina 
Hung, a third year graduate in 
the Department of Fine Arts 
and friend of Watson.
In a short span of time,
Watson worked on a variety 
of projects throughout the 
greater Pittsburgh area. One 
of her first projects was the 
YMCA. in Natrona Heights. Later, 
she helped conceptualize an 
opthalmologist’s office in McKee’s 
Rocks with the help of Arthur Lubetz, 
of the Arthur Lubetz Architectural 
Firm. The building is a narrative 
about the eye and how it functions.
Much of the structure and furniture
courtesy of Arthur Lubetz 
Jill Watson demonstrated her idea about 
interspatiality at the Pittsburgh Brewhouse.
X above the main entrance maintains 
the theme. Although the house has a 
simple facade, the interior is modern 
and geometric.
In Brighton Heights, on the North 
Side of Pittsburgh, Watson helped 
conceptualize a house for the elderly.
Please see WATSON, page L9
Music mirrors design
By NIA RODGERS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The 18th century thinker Goethe said of architecture, “One would 
have thought... that as a fine art [it] functions solely for the eye” and 
he went on to exalt a house so beautifully designed that a blinded 
person led through the house would experience the same sensuality 
and enjoyment as if they were dancing or listening to music. Inspired 
by Goethe’s thoughts, Michael Pestel, assistant professor of Sculp­
ture and Multimedia at Chatham College and an adjunct professor 
at CMU, . created a sound experience of the last major architectural 
work completed by Jill Watson.
The house, on Kentucky Avenue in Shadyside, is marked by a 
unique open“X” design utilizing Watson’s concepts of interspatiality. 
Pestel’s performance, based on the plans for the house, consisted of 
four movements, each representing a floor. However, instead of an 
orderly progression, the movements “explore the four floors of the 
house simultaneously and haphazardly” creating an interspatial 
experience. Says Pestel, “Interspatiality... is experiencing architec­
ture in a way that’s not linear... it’s a simultaneous experience. You 
can stand in one room and look into another. It’s not like in other 
houses where you can shut the door to a room. The rooms have a 
visual relationship. It’s hard to tell where one room starts and 
another one leaves off.”
Imitating the “X” design of the house in their seating arrangement, 
the players in the piece represented rooms. Rachel Matthews, an art 
student at Chatham College, “concentrated on space and the sounds 
in it, creating an audio space the way [Jill Watson] created a visual 
space.” Each player was left to him or herself to determine what the 
sound of their space might be and the means of producing it. The end 
result was a medley of such diverse instruments as a saw, a bowl of 
cereal, a violin, a chair, a sewing machine, synthesizers, saxophones, 
trumpets, clarinets, and more.
Brandy Auld, from CMU, said “I decided what to play by looking 
around the Great Hall and finding what was there—a few boxes and 
some newspapers.” Augmenting the players’ efforts were the sounds 
of rapid writing on chalk boards and pencils on paper from working 
students and architects seated outside “the house.”
Cameras poised above the ensemble of players in the Great Hall of 
the CFA projected a view of the performance from above onto 
monitors throughout the building. The audience encroached upon 
the sounds from seats in the main entrance of the building, from 
either side of the performance area, and from the balconies and 
landings above. “The Great Hall was a challenging space,” said 
Pestel. “Everyone heard and saw it differently, so there was a sort of 
interspatiality about that space.”
Usingbass, alto, concert, and piccolo flutes (one for each floor of the 
house), Pestel acted as a conductor for the piece. He wandered 
Please see INTERSPATIALITY, page L8
!h1EDEa rEGdS RlrrAKA 3Ea1 clsa1 RAGaAe
By BECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Staffwriter
“To create a link where before there were only 
boundaries.” Such was the goal of Peter Coppin 
and the Centre for Metahuman Exploration in 
creating “boundry .link,” an installation 
set up in the Great Hall of CFA as part 
of last week’s Wats:on? Arts Festival.
The installation created this connec­
tion through four specially-outfitted 
telephone booths. Participants stepped 
inside, dialed a number, and made con­
tact over the line with young men and 
women from the Youth Development 
Center, a correctional center in New 
Castle, Delaware.
The “boundry.link” installation, cre­
ated by Coppin and Alexi Morrissey, 
art graduate students, sprouted from 
the ideas and concepts central to the 
focus of the Centre for Metahuman 
Exploration. The Centre is an interdis­
ciplinary group that, said Coppin,
“merges art, robotics, and media in 
order to manufacture the present tense 
... [to] alter the present tense to create 
a live event.”
This installation changed the present 
by connecting two groups of people who 
otherwise most likely would never have 
, talked. “We’ve been doing a lot of work 
to ... link two previously unlinked sys­
tems,” said Coppin. “In this case, it’s a 
maximum-security prison and the iso­
lation ofthe ivory tower.... No one knows 
what would happen if there were an 
artificial communication link, an arti­
ficial border zone where there previ­
ously was none.”
Once they had come up with the 
basic idea of linking CMU to another 
system isolated from the outside world, 
the artists decided to work with a youth 
institution to further the connection 
between CMU students and those on 
the other end of the line “One of the 
things that are really interesting is
that some college students are going to be graduat­
ing in May and figuring out what they’re going to 
do with the rest of their lives.... In the same way, 
the ‘students’ at the detention center are spending 
a lot of time thinking about what they’re going to do 
with their lives when they get out,” said Michael 
Parris, a member of the Centre who graduated
Andrew IVIcDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Participants phoned a youth development center in Delaware.
from CMU with a degree in archi­
tecture last year.
While not directly an outgrowth 
of Jill Watson’s artistic ideas, 
“boundry.link” embodied many of 
the concepts she had explored in 
her work. Coppin and 
Morrissey were in the same 
graduate program as 
Watson, and Parris was an 
architecture student of hers. 
“This work relates to what 
she was doing because 
there’s this community af­
filiation aspect of the gradu­
ate program,” said Coppin. 
The “boundry.link” project 
also exemplified Watson’s 
theory of interspatiality, 
which had been the driving 
force behind much of her 
work. ‘Interspatiality’ 
means that space is made 
up of the various spaces 
within it. In this piece, you 
have the space of the world 
and these various bound­
aries which are boundary- 
linked using this piece, 
therefore remanufacturing 
the space of the world,” 
said Coppin.
Those who participated in 
“boundry.link” were im­
pressed by what brought 
them together with the 
young people at the other 
end of the telephone wire, as 
well as by what separated 
them. “It’s almost like a 
myth-fantasy thing,” said 
Laura Shaffalo, a non-CMU 
visitor to the installation. 
“We don’t have a clue what 
people in prison do. We can 
only imagine what they do. 
And we’re like a myth-fan- 
Please see PHONES, page L9

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 1997
Performance sounds fill CFA
LN5!TuP-5L-LL5xJ OelM qpKA L7
through the house with his flute- 
switches, noisily bringing to life 
a porch, shutting off the TV, or 
closing out the sounds of birds, 
crickets, and traffic from a win­
dow. Often he stopped at the 
conductor’s podium, took sod­
den architectural plans for the 
house from jars at his feet, 
balled them up, and blew them 
from his flute while the audi­
ence laughed at his “beautiful 
spitballs.” As the piece pro­
gressed, the sounds grew more 
insistent and alive. A fire
truck wailed, while a sewing 
machine persistently stitched. 
A door slammed and slammed 
as water trickled. The perfor­
mance ended as sounds were 
switched off one by one. As some 
ceased, those still sounding 
clung to an increasingly isolated 
existence. Finally Pestel ap­
proached the microphone with 
the words “We’re done, 
thanks.... I don’t think that any­
one could contest that Jill’s 
spirit is here.”
After the performance, Lowry 
Burgess, a professor in the CFA,
commented, “The piece ... was 
for me very much like an empty 
insect shell, a cicada at the 
end of summer... all that fran­
tic energy and abandonment, 
but intense.”
As the finale of a two-day­
long festival in honor of Jill 
Watson, Pestel said that the 
“Interspatiality” performance 
was appropriate, “in terms of it 
being a cathartic experience. A 
kind of emotional, sensual ex­
pression of feelings .about her 
life and work was a good way to 
finish it.”
JlAa Ol OEa Jlrlk S1q OSua SqeS1OSta lc l3D
TeU ’sf“eas DeSMeirpdw”
Pittsburgh’s Only Member-Owned 
Whole Foods Grocery Store & Vegetarian Café
JexsfidajG
• Bulk Pasta, Grains, Herbs & Spices • Organic Fruits & Vegetables •
1 Cruelty-Free Health & Beauty Products • Homeopathic Remedies ¦ 
•Vegetarian & Vegan Deli Take-Out •
Everyone is Welcome to Shop at the Co-op!
7576 gApWA uaeAAa PEaaSDseK1J P- 7Noin(412) 242-3598
Hair revives past
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Contributing Editor
Remember the musical 
Annie? Remember Oklahoma? 
Remember the musical Hair? 
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the 
“American Tribal Love-Rock 
Musical” is a musical.
It’s not revolutionary. It’s not 
social commentary. It’s not a 
ground-breaking examination 
of youth counter-culture: it 
might have been in 1968 when
ties, an image that encom­
passes everything from 
Krishna to Cary Grant in a 
swirly, whirly, Wavy Gravy 
kind of way. How is it impor­
tant to us today? It isn’t, ex­
cept as a tool to assess our 
histories and roots. It’s just 
good, randy fun, with a little 
bit of intelligence to it.
The performance was fluid 
and strong. It was clear that 
the actors had a hell of a time. 
Marcus Chait as the aboriginal
Courtesy of University Relations 
Steven Dunlap, Joe Fria, and Marcus Chait become hippies in Hair.
it was first produced in sunny 
New York, but it sure ain’t 
social commentary right now. 
It is, in fact, nostalgia.
Now that we’ve gotten that 
out of the way, we can examine 
the musical as it needs to be 
examined: as historical enter­
tainment. Hair, written by 
Gerome Ragni and James Rado 
in the reeling sixties, is the 
story of young Claude (Joseph 
Upton) and his misadventures 
with a rag-tag group of “hip­
pies” who are protesting 
against a war in Vietnam.
The “hippies” are held to­
gether by the cohesive forces of 
love, justice, peace, desegrega­
tion, peyote, and dermal fric­
tion. What this musical does 
make clear is that it wasn’t all 
wine and love-beads in the six­
ties. There were problems, like 
when one of your own (Claude) 
is drawn into a ubiquitious war 
by a sense of duty and, we are 
told, pride. Claude cuts his hair, 
puts on dungarees, and gets 
ready to keep on rocking from 
the Delta to the DMZ, as it were.
But, aside from a basic vis­
ceral story, what else is.this 
musical full of? All of the freaky, 
funky fun that everybody ex­
pects from the sixties. In fact, 
this could be considered the 
definitive image of the six-
Berger was a treat, as was 
Upton as Claude. Other no­
tables include Sarah Roberts 
as Jeanie and tribal priestess 
Tressa N. Pope. Clinkers came 
in the form of Kim Director’s 
efforts as the protest leader and 
a weak rendition of 
Shakespeare’s “What a Piece of 
Work is Man” by Juan Rivera 
and Matthew Fletcher.
Hair has the linear nature of 
The Ed Sullivan show and the 
coherence of a Grateful Dead 
concert. In fact, one is tempted 
to say that the musical was 
selected to showcase the tal­
ents of various graduating se­
niors. It was a good, if addled, 
ride, and well worth a student 
admission price.
The band, led by Thom Dou­
glas, was a riot, and the set, 
designed by Malchus Janocko 
was minimalist and strong. 
Perhaps, in the future, direc­
tors of this musical could draw 
out the universality of the 
story, and focus less on the 
music and general joviality of 
those wacky hippies.
And, in case you were won­
dering, they did get naked.
Hair will run at the Kresge 
Theatre until April 5. For infor­
mation, call the Drama box of­
fice at x8-2407.
glfEA AhqlSAS ,JyS Private Parts
By DAVE ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
It is an epic story that worms 
its way into your heart, a saga of 
a misunderstood common man 
who was able to shunt his en­
emies into subservience. It may 
shock you to learn that I am not 
speaking of a Dickens novel, 
but rather of Howard Stern’s 
Private Parts.
W1paI Private Parts 
L ,EeARaleI BAaac 51lMpS 
| ClMqpGcI PpepMlsGa 
PERaseAS
Private Parts chronicles Stem’s 
rise from quiet teenager to the 
number one disk jockey in 
America. I suppose it is some­
what odd that I found the film to 
be more inspirational than funny, 
but who couldn’t love this rags- 
to-riches tale of a nervous college 
DJ finding true love, albeit bur­
ied under a sheen of questionable 
on-air antics? Many obstacles 
present themselves over the 
course of his journey, but our 
intrepid hero overcomes them all. 
More accurately, this is what the 
makers of the movie want us to 
believe. Whether this victory is 
anything to be excited about is 
left to the viewer’s discretion.
Stern is considered by many, 
including his program director in 
the movie, to be the Antichrist.
His humor is rude and lewd, and 
he freely says what is on his mind, 
but we learn that the real Stern 
just wants to make an impres­
sion on people. He wants.to follow 
in his father’s footsteps and work 
in radio. His career begins while 
he is attending Boston Univer­
sity, where he meets his future 
wife Alison (Mary McCormack). 
Before long, he is off to bigger and 
better things at a small station 
somewhere in New York. From 
here, his path could only lead to 
the Big Apple, the broadcast capi­
tal of America.
As narrator and star, Stern 
plays himself with remarkable 
ease, as if he were born for the 
role. Joining him are real-life on- 
air cohorts Robin Quivers, Fred 
Norris, and Jackie Martling. 
Though some have larger parts 
than others, they all soundly an­
swer the question, “Should known 
actors have played these roles 
instead?” Placing anyone else in 
the roles would allow for inter­
pretation of the characters when 
there shouldn’t be any; if any­
one is familiar with the mate­
rial, it should certainly be the 
original participants.
As Stem’s wife, McCormack is 
someone whom we intensely re­
spect. Not everyone can deal with 
their husband’s (or wife’s) obnox­
ious image and say, “It’s just an 
act.” To others watching, how­
ever, it may be unclear whether
it is the public Howard Stem or 
the Howard Stern of the movie 
that is the act.
Once you get past the sweet 
story line, the movie does have a 
few problems. I felt somewhat 
pushed around by the film, al­
most as if I was supposed to like 
it. As if the story isn’t enough to 
draw us in, there are cameos by 
Ozzy Osbourne, Tiny Tim, AC/ 
DC, and others, which for the 
most part fail to add anything to 
the movie.
Also, I missed most of the hu­
mor completely. It was passably 
enjoyable, but nothing had me 
rolling in my seat with hysterics. 
Yet despite these sticking points, 
the film does shed a little light on 
the man behind radio’s most vili­
fied persona. His popularity 
springs from his outspokenness 
and unpredictability. Perhaps no 
one can sum up his allure better 
than his fans and detractors who 
state, “We want to see what he’ll 
do next.”
©1997 Rysher Entertainment 
Howard Stern portrays himself as a ’70s Detroit disc jockey.
Brass band gives familiar tunes spice
By AMY BERGER
Tartan Staffwriter
Passion, power, and professionalism are the three qualities of the 
River City Brass Band (RCBB) that brought a packed house to a 
standing ovation in Carnegie Music Hall on Saturday night. Under 
the direction of Denis Colwell, the band performed “All the 
World’s a Stage,” a program of selections from musical 
genres that ranged from marches to operettas to swing.
The program consisted of stage music and included 
selections from Broadway musicals, operas, and Sousa 
marches, which were originally written for the stage. What 
impressed me about the wide range of styles was the band’s 
ability to immediately alter the mood of the music from one 
piece to the next. I was taken by the extremely smooth 
transition from the darkness of the Overture to Act I of 
Phantom of the Opera to the tranquility expressed in “To­
night” from West Side Story. The latter began with a beau­
tiful, artistic cornet solo that demonstrated Bernard Black’s 
superb breath control, and then featured Carl Jackson in an 
absolutely lyrical trombone solo.
The musicians had a way of conveying true emotion in 
their playing. During Richard Wagner’s “Procession to the 
Minister,” I could truly feel the sadness in the music after 
Denis Colwell explained that at the end of Lohengrin, the 
opera from which it was taken, the character Elsa dies of a 
broken heart. Another noteworthy aspect of the band was its
great balance. Even inA SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
professional groups, 
trumpet players often 
blast and overpower the
entire ensemble, but to the musi­
cians’ credit, this was not the case 
in the RCBB. I heard each section 
in its proper musical position, and 
melodies and solos were played 
tastefully without hiding the in­
ner voices. This balance was also a factor that contributed to the band’s 
expression of all the musical nuances — diminuendos got just soft 
enough, and crescendos were never loud to the point of being irritating.
A highlight of the evening was the guest soprano and CMU 
graduate Claudia Benack. During the first half of the show, she 
was featured in the operetta selections “Italian Street Song,”
from Herbert’s Naughty 
Marietta, and “Quando 
men’vo,” from Puccini’s 
La Boheme. Her rendi­
tion of “What I Did for 
Love,” from A Chorus 
Line, was filled with raw 
emotion, and the combi­
nation of the lyrics, her 
resonant vibrato, and her 
altogether fabulous voice 
literally brought me to 
tears.
In the second half, the 
band accompanied Ms. 
Benack as she sang Cole 
Porter and Rodgers and 
Hammerstein hits. After 
preparing myself for tra­
ditional versions of 
“People Will Say We’re 
in Love” and “Hello 
Young Lovers,” I was 
pleasantly surprised 
when the band per-
Courtesy of River City Brass Band 
Claudia Benacks sang with RCBB last Saturday.
formed Joe Campus’ swing arrangements.
Another interesting part of the performance was an audience 
singalong. It was delightful to see so many people united in song as we 
mumbled our way through “Give My Regards to Broadway” and others.
For more information, call 322-RCBB.
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street’s 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.
VALIDT HEEOIDT KNPZUID YAZEF
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232r.Wil ..Wa....
http://Pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 17 March 1997L9
DH 2210
sfSd n inn
movies you may have seen before...
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, April 3
The Last Temptation of Christ
Harvey Keitel as Judas helps David Bowie as 
Pontius Pilate nail Willem Dafoe as Jesus Christ to 
Martin Scorcese as the cross. Peter “Archangel” 
Gabriel shocks the monkey shaking the tree bigtime 
with a sledgehammer.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, April 4
The People vs. Larry Flynt
This movie is not about naked women, although a 
number of them do appear in the film. It’s about a fat 
stupid pig with amusingly offensive t-shirts who 
throws oranges at judges until the Supreme Court 
says he can go out to play on the jungle gym. 
Courtney Drugs does love.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In DH 2210
Saturday, April 5
The Long Kiss Goodnight
Geena Davis is a suburban school teacher baking 
Rice Krispie treats for her eight-year-old daughter 
in Chelmsford, Massachusetts. Then she remem­
bers that she is actually a lethal secret agent and 
goes back to what she does best: killing people at 
close range with powerful handguns.
You think I’m kidding?
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Sunday, April 6
Cool as Ice
Yo VIP, let’s kick it.
All right, stop, collaborate, and listen. Ice is back 
with my brand new invention. Something grabs a hold 
of me tightly, thrown like a harpoon daily and nightly. 
Will it ever stop? Yo, I don’t know. Turn off the lights 
and I’ll glow. To the extreme I rock a mic like a vandal, 
light up a stage and wax the chump like a candle. 
Dance! Cool rush the speaker that booms. I’m killing 
your brain like a poisonous mushroom. Deadly when 
I’m playing dope melodies. Anything less than the 
best is a felony. Love it or leave it, you bet I gain way. 
You better hit bull’s eye, the kid don’t play.
Now that the party is jumping, with the bass 
kicked in and the Vegas are pumping. Quick to the 
point, to the point no faking. Cooking MCs like a 
pound of bacon. Burning ’em, if you ain’t quick and 
nimble. I go crazy when I hear a cymbal and a hi-hat 
with a souped-up tempo. I’m on a roll, it’s time to go 
solo. Rollingin my 5.0, withmy ragtop down so my hair 
can blow. The girlies on standby, waitingjust to say hi. 
Did you stop? No, I just drove by. Kept on, pursuing to 
the next stop. I busted left and I’m heading to the next 
block. The block was dead, yo, so I continued to A1A, 
Beachfront Avenue! Girls were hot wearing less than 
bikinis. Rockmen lovers driving Lamborghinis. Jeal­
ous, ’cause I’m out getting mine. Che with the gauge 
and Vanilla with the nine. Ready for the chumps on 
the wall, the chumps acting nimble ’cause they’re full 
of eight balls. Gun shots ranged out like a bell. I 
grabbed my nine, all I heard was shells falling on the 
concrete real fast. Jumped in my car, slammed on the 
gas. Bumper to bumper, the avenue’s packed. I’m 
trying to get away before the jackers jack. Police on the 
scene, you know what I mean. They passed me up, 
confronted all the dope fiends.
Yo man, let’s get out of here. Word to your mother.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
“We ate pancréas.”
(“See you at the party, Richter.” — Arnold 
Schwarzenegger in Total Recall)
Jedi returns to silver screen
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Contributing Editor
In the interest of catering to 
the younger set, I wrote this 
in the style of my seven-year- 
old brother.
FErMI Return of the Jedi 
' ,EeARaleI mAleKA LsRpS 
ClMqpGcI oia1 CAGasec
I saw a movie called Return of 
the Jedi which was really neat.
It was the story of these space 
guys that lived long ago and far 
away and were fighting the Em­
peror and his magic globe that 
they have to blow up. There’re 
monkeys in it, too.
And there’s a guy named Luke 
and these robots that live on a 
desert and go to see a big red 
animal named Jabba the Muppet 
and his alien friends that live in
a castle. The robots go to see the 
Jabba and get taken prisoner. 
Then a lady came in and tried to 
save a guy who is frozen into an 
iceblock. Finally, Luke came and 
he was magic and he got thrown 
into a trap to kill this big mon­
ster. I didn’t watch that part, 
because it was dark.
What happened then is they 
went on spaceships in the desert 
to this big plant. They were going 
to throw the guy in the iceblock 
and Luke and the hairy animal 
that’s friendly into the plant to 
kill them. Then there was a lot of 
fighting and then the lady killed 
the Jabba and killed everybody.
Then Luke and the robots and 
the iceblock guy and the hairy 
animal and the lady went on a 
spaceship to go to a planet. They 
got to the planet and saw the 
monkeys who were really cute 
and had babies. And there was a
guy in a magic cape who was dan­
gerous and he had heavy breath­
ing. After they got to the planet, 
they blew up a building and then 
the fish-men blew up the magic 
globe and everybody was dancing 
and happy, and there was this 
little green monkey and a ghost.
Overall, this film was as good as 
the rest of the 
trilogy. The new 
scenes were in­
credibly ren­
dered, excepting 
a scene in 
Jabba’s palace 
featuring the 
alien band doing 
a rendition of 
something close 
to “Louie Louie.”
The film was a 
spectacle, a pin­
nacle in the sci­
ence fiction arts
and one of the best movies play­
ing right now. You’re going to 
see it anyway, and that’s just 
what George Lucas wanted you 
to do. Sit back, relax, and en­
joy one of the funnest movies 
ever made. Don’t blame me if 
you get scared by the big mon­
ster and the Jabba.
©1996 20th Century 
51A RpSa lO Jedi eAaseGS al a1ApaAeS•
CeEaER qeAWERaS wSRpe -3peW 3EGGAeS
On the Tube
Dan Rosenberg
certainly an entertaining film, but it most 
definitely does not belong in the same cat­
egory as the four other contenders.) Despite 
the high level of quality among the nomi­
nees, there is no doubt that The English 
Patient and director Anthony Minghella 
will win the film and director awards. Oscar 
loves its epics, and The English Patient 
certainly fits the bill. Plus, with 12 nomina­
tions behind it (almost twice as many as any 
other nominee), Patient certainly has proven 
that it has fans in every branch of the 
Academy.
Best Actor: Although there is a consid­
erable amount of buzz surrounding nomi­
nee Billy Bob Thornton (Sling Blade), this 
category has only one clear choice: Geoffrey
In a perfect world, the Academy Awards 
would not matter. Only a handful of Oscar’s 
Best Picture choices were actually the best 
films of the year, while a considerable num­
ber of great movies and performances have 
been overlooked throughout the Academy’s 
69-year history.
Of course, we all know that this is not a 
perfect world. The Oscars do matter. In fact, 
an Academy Award has a significant effect on 
a film’s box office and video rental receipts.
Because of the Academy’s influence 
throughout the world, Oscar predicting has 
become a yearly ritual for many critics, my­
self included. Most of this year’s races have 
clear front-runners, but that doesn’t mean 
there won’t be any upsets when the Oscars 
are presented next Monday. However, here is 
who is most likely to be called to the podium:
Best Picture and Director: Generally, 
these two awards go to the same film, so it 
seems logical to group them together. This 
year has one of the best collections of Best 
Picture nominees since the early ’80s with 
nominees; The English Patient, Fargo, Se­
crets and Lies, and Shine, all rightful candi­
dates. (The fifth nominee, Jerry Maguire, is
Phones make connection
PHONES, from page L7 were talking to overwhelmed the
tasy to them because they have considerable differences. “I had
©1996 TriStar Pictures 
LpseAG BpRprr ES GlMEGpaAW Ole DASa 
SsqqleaEGK pRaeASS•
Rush in Shine. Rush has won nearly every 
major award going into the Oscar race, plus 
he plays a mentally handicapped individual 
(Oscar voters just love that). This also gives 
the Academy the perfect opportunity to
honor, Shine, a wonderful film that won’t win 
any other Oscars.
Best Actress: This is a two-woman race, 
with Brenda Blethyn (Secrets and Lies) and 
Frances McDormand {Fargo) neck-in-neck. 
McDormand is clearly the better-known per­
former, having previously been nominated as 
Best Supporting Actress in 1988 (for Missis­
sippi Burning). Blethyn, although the lesser- 
known star, did give a remarkable dramatic 
performance in a Best Picture nominee that 
will most likely win no other awards. Add to 
that the fact that she’s British (Oscar voters 
love Brits) and you have yourself the winner.
Best Supporting Actor: In the weakest of 
the acting categories, this award will most 
likely be won by default. Nominees Cuba 
Gooding Jr. {Jerry Maguire), William H. Macy 
(Fargo), and Armin Mueller-Stahl (Shine) 
were all in films that were so dominated by 
the leading performers (fellow nominees Tom 
Cruise, Frances McDormand, and Geoffrey 
Rush) that the work of the featured players was 
overshadowed. Edward Norton (Primal Fear) 
is an exciting newcomer who starred in 
three critically lauded films this year and, 
unlike his competitors, dominated the film 
for which he is nominated.
Best Supporting Actress: Joan Allen 
(The Crucible) and Barbara Hershey (The 
Portrait of a Lady) gave stellar performances, 
but they don’t have a chance at a victory. After 
more than five decades in films without even 
an Oscar nomination, Lauren Bacall (The 
Mirror Has Two Faces) will win by a land­
slide.
Billy Crystal will host The 69th Annual 
Academy Awards next Monday on ABC at 9 
pm EST.
no idea what we do. They imag­
ine us as these free-spirited stu­
dents, but they have no idea how 
we fill our time.”
The “students” in the institu­
tion welcomed the chance to con­
nect with another commu­
nity. “I was surprised how 
enthused they were about 
[the project],” said Parris. 
Many of them took the op­
portunity to share their 
plans for life after prison 
with the speakers on the 
other end of the line. “One 
[participant] in particular 
had some plans about want­
ing to be a guidance counse­
lor after she got out...,” said 
Craig Vogel, Associate Dean 
of CFA, “The other [that he 
spoke with] ... is interested 
in coming to CMU.”
For some students, their 
similarities with those they
no idea [the people he had been 
talking with] were in a correc­
tional center,” said junior art ma­
jor Noah Simon. “I thought they 
were art students, or I was dial­
ing another art school.”
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor 
A student participates in boundary.llnk.
Victim’s work honored 
with artistic festival
WATSON, from page L7
The theme for this project was 
incompletion. The red brick build­
ing has been left open on one side, 
so only three comers of the build­
ing come to a close. People will 
soon be moving in to the recently 
completed building. Watson fur­
ther pursued her ideas about 
incompletion by conducting re­
search for a book she planned on 
co-authoring with Lubetz. Lubetz 
has decided to finish the book on 
his own.
In addition to these projects, 
Watson is well known for her 
ideas about interspatiality. “It’s 
a space within a space, within a 
space,” said Lubetz. The Pitts­
burgh Brew House, which was 
being used as a gallery, was si­
multaneously used as a theater 
for Watson’s demonstration on
interspatiality. The theater 
was in the gallery which was 
in the brewery. The different 
areas were separated by large 
red stage curtains. The the­
ater space, separated by sheer, 
white curtains, allowed room 
for people to pump beer from a 
keg. As people entered the 
white curtains and pumped 
beer, they were the perform­
ers in the theater. Through 
this display she explained how 
space can have space within it.
“I think Jill’s work and her 
theory on interspatiality pro­
vide us with an example of a 
way to work, see and live dif­
ferently than we do and have. 
....” said Hung. “I know the 
notions of interdisciplinarity 
and incompleteness were im­
portant ones to her,” she said.
INNOVATE THE TREND
With the trend for the 21st century firmly rooted in communications, a career with MCI is 
an obvious choice. From telecommunications to networking to the Internet. MCI — 
Information Technology is leading the way to the most comprehensive innovations in history. 
Whether you're a graduating senior looking for full-time work or a student searching for an 
internship, if you have an information technology background and are energetic, creative and 
professional, we want to talk with you.
As a world-class company. MCI offers excellent benefits and compensations. If you’re 
ready to use your education to impact the future, con­
tact your Career Services office for more information 
about our on-campus information sessions and inter­
views in the spring. MCI is proud to be an equal 
opportunity employer, M/F/D/V.gCL
CONFERENCE • MEETING ROOM
Are You Having An Affair? Then Have Your Next Affair At:
SHADYSIDE TOWN HALL
“Idealfor Groups of 1 to 40"
Business Seminars • Workshops • Private Affairs 
THE CORNER OF WALNUT & FILBERT STREETS
731 Filbert Street
For convenience: Take elevator located at Filbert St. entrance to top level.
688-9555
Business Office Hours: Monday-Friday, 9:30 am-noon unless hull is occupied; then, cull for appointment.

---------------------------------------------------

LOCA
will play at 8,10 pm, and midnight 
on Thursday in DH 2210.
The False Student
will play at 6'pm on 
March 27 and 
8 pm on March 29 at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Buck Rogers In the 25th Century
will play at 8,10 pm, and 
midnight on March 30 in 
DH 2210/••
The Last Temptation ol Christ
I will play at 7:30,10 pm. and 
12:30 am on April 3 in 
McConomy Auditorium.
The Man with a Movie Camera
will play at 8 pm on April 4 and 
2:30 p on April 5 at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
The Long Kiss Goodnight
will play at 7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am on April 5 in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Cool as Ice
will play at 8,10 pm, and 
midnight on April 6 in 
DH 2210.
University CALENDAR
through March 23. The display will exhibit 
the set, costume, lighting, and technical 
designs of the Drama Department’s 82nd 
season of production. The focus will be on 
the process from initial ideas to final de­
signs. For more information, call Petra 
Fallaux, gallery coordinator, at x8-3877.
eApWEGKSAeEAS
Common Grounds Coffeehouse: Spring 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Aissatou Sunjata and Wendy -Scott on 
Tuesday, March 25. Open poetry readings 
will take place at I pm and scheduled read­
ings at 8:30 pm. For more information, cail 
Common Grounds at 362-1190.
Beehive Reading Series: Dennis Loy 
Johnson and Dave Newman will be fea­
tured on March 20. All readings are held 
upstairs at the Beehive Coffeehouse, 3807 
Forbes Avenue. It will be open mike at I 
pm, scheduled readers at 8:30 pm. For 
more information, call 441-2859.a1ApaAepeaS
Theater job opportunities will be avail­
able on March 22 at a national audition 
for summer jobs to be held at the Univer­
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The 
auditions are open to anyone 18 and older, 
and jobs require a 9 -12 week commitment 
including two weeks of rehearsal. For more 
information, contact the Institute of Out­
door Drama at (919) 962-1328.
CMUDrama presents Hair through April
5 at Kresge Theatre. Audiences are encour­
aged to attend the production dressed in 
the style of the times: tie-dyed t-shirts, bell 
bottoms, flowers, or anything else fitting. 
Three winners of the best “hippie” outfits 
will win subscription tickets to the 1997- 
98 season. Tuesday through Saturday per­
formances will begin at I pm. Matinees are 
scheduled for March 15 and April 5. A ben­
efit performance will be held on March 17 
to help raise money for the Drama 
Department’s senior class trip to Los An­
geles. For more information, call the 
Drama box office at x8-2407.
Pittsburgh Theatre Laboratories pre­
sents Waiting for Godot on March 21 and 
22 at Wall to Wall Studios in the Crane 
Building at I pm. Tickets are $10 for stu­
dents, $12 for regular admission. For more 
information, call the PTL at 244-9709.
The Diary of Anne Frank, a play dra­
matized by Frances Goodrich and Albert 
Hackett, will be presented by Trinity 
Christian School in Forest Hills at 7:30 pm
Towards a Better Understanding: Af­
rican-American and Jewish-American 
Women Working Together will be the 
topic of a panel discussion taking place at 
the Heinz Regional History Center on 
March 26 at - pm. Panelist judge Cynthia 
Baldwin, Nancy Israel, and Edie Niveh 
will discuss issues facing women in today’s 
society. Programs are free to Historical 
Society members, 6- for regular admis­
sion. For more information, contact Trish 
Beatty at 454-6372.
Visiting Writers Series presents prize- 
winning writer Nancy Zafris on Wednes­
day at I pm in DH 2210. Zafris has won 
many honors for her work, including the 
Flannery O’Connor Award for Short Fic­
tion in 1989 for her collection of short sto­
ries The People I Know. For more infor­
mation, contact Lisa Ritter at x8-5765.
You can advertise for 
free in The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off campus 
that has relevance to the campus commu­
nity, email auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu or mail 
it to The Tartan, Box 17 in the Carnegie 
Mellon University Center by the Wednesday 
before the date of the event.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire 
campus community! To submit a vox, sim­
ply email it to auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu, 
send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via campus 
mail, or drop it in the Vox Populi drop box on 
the infamous Tartan Server.
Remember, the Vox kicks the smocks out 
of the rubber jocks who like cream pox with 
their smelly buttered-up moxie lox.
Sigma Nu prepares their buggy, King of Spades, for the big showdown at Carnival next month.
pelsGWal3G
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh will 
present a panel discussion and network­
ing session for artists of all disciplines at 
Associated Artists’ Gallery on March 29 at 
1 pm. The panel discussion will feature 
members of Momentum, a collective of art­
ists who have joined together to foster the 
creation of interdisciplinary, collaborative 
artworks. Admission is free and refresh­
ments will be served. For more informa­
tion, call Momentum at 244-8742.
Ukrainian Studies is looking for volun­
teers for public demonstrations in defense 
of the freedom of speech. For more infor­
mation, write to:
Ukrainian Studies 
PO Box 156 
Indiana, PA 15701
Bone Marrow Donor Drive is being 
sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical School Alpha Omega Alpha chap­
ter on March 24 from 12 to 5:45 pm in the 
"Victoria Building at the University of Pitts­
burgh Medical Center. For more informa­
tion, contact the Central Blood Bank at 
456-1980.
MsSER
ries, will feature clarinetist and composer 
David Keberle in a concert on March 24 at 
I pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. 
The program will include three world pre­
mieres: 3 Designs by John Eaton, Hide- 
and-seek by Glenn Gass, and Reindeer’s 
Romp, Keberle’s own work for bass clari­
net. Admission is $I. For more informa­
tion, contact Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
University of Pittsburgh Chamber Or­
chestra will give its spring concert on 
March 19 at I pm in Bellefield Hall Audi­
torium. The concert features soloist Sumi 
Lee in the first movement of Schumann’s 
Piano Concerto. Admission is free. For 
more information, call 624-4125.
Orquestra Tropical will be performing 
on March 20 at Rosebud in the Strip Dis­
trict from 9:30 pm to 1:30 am. They will 
also be performing at Cozumel on March
29 from 10:30 pm to 2 am. For more infor­
mation, call 247-3624.
MsSAsMS
Memory and Mourning: American Ex­
pressions of Grief, a new exhibit at the 
Heinz Regional History Center, will fea­
ture America’s changing attitudes toward 
death and dying. For more information, 
call 454-6372.
Emily Remler Guitar Series will feature 
Kenny Burrell on April 5 and Mike Stern 
on May 3. Individual tickets are also avail­
able. For tickets, please call 322-0800.
River City Brass Band will be perform­
ing “Magnificent Melodies” on April 5 at I 
pm at Carnegie Music Hall. “Magnificent 
Melodies” will feature a collection of the 
most beloved melodies ever written by 
composers like Debussy and Gershwin. For 
more information, contact Bill Schlageter 
at 322-7222.
Pittsburgh Summer ChoralFest will 
make its debut this year from June 14 - 
27. Eight days of rehearsal will be followed 
with a public concert. The fee is $75 for all 
choral musicians interested in participat­
ing. For more information, please contact 
Eric Haines at 734-3422.
University of Pittsburgh Music De­
partment presents the student classical 
and jazz guitar ensemble in concert on 
Sunday at 2 pm in Frick Fine Arts Audito­
rium. The performance is free to the pub­
lic. For more information, call 361-4038.
First One Hundred Women Lawyers in 
Allegheny County is the focus of a tem­
porary exhibit at the Heinz Regional His­
tory Center, which runs through April -. 
For more information, call 454-6000.
Silver Eye Center for Photography. The
deadline for the 11th Annual Photo-Oppor­
tunity competition call for entries is April 
18. The Center offers this opportunity for 
photographers to exhibit five to ten of their 
most recent photo-based works. The ex­
hibit will run from June 27 through Au­
gust 16. Entry is free for members at the 
$60 level or higher. For more information, 
contact Jody Guy at 431-1810.
Chromelosome is taking place at the As­
sociated Artists of Pittsburgh Gallery 
through April 14. The show, curated by 
Craig Vogel, associate dean of CFA and 
associate professor of design, focuses on 
the evolution and interaction in art, de­
sign, and technology from 1945 through 
2000. On Saturday, from 9:30 am to 5 pm, 
there will be a panel discussion that will 
feature scholars of art, architecture, and 
design history.
Music on the Edge, the University of The Process Behind The Scenes, a new 
Pittsburgh Music Department’s music se- exhibit at Hewlett Gallery, will run
Thursday through Saturday. Thursday’s 
performance will be introduced by a local 
Holocaust survivor as he describes his life 
in Germany during World War II. Call the 
school at 242-8886 or Elizabeth Laughlin 
at x8-8430 for more information.
lGRpMqsS
The Pittsburgh Steelers will be playing 
a charity basketball game on March 20 at 
I pm in Skibo Gym. The Steelers will be 
playing against a team of parents and 
teachers from the East Hills Elementary 
School to raise money for improving the 
school's playground. The Steelers will sign 
autographs and meet the fans during half- 
time. Tickets are $4 and will be available 
at the door. For more information, please 
contact Rob Mahorter at 661-4549.
Fast Break in Skibo Coffeehouse is be­
ing sponsored by Student Activities and 
Student Life. The following groups are 
welcome for free breakfast from I to 94 am 
on these dates:
March 20 CFA Undergraduates 
April 3 CIT Undergraduates
April 10 MCS Undergraduates 
April 17 SCS Undergraduates 
April 24 H&SS Undergraduates 
May 1 SLA Undergraduates
Listen... Smell That?? The University 
Forum invites everyone to come discuss 
the general discontent around campus this 
semester. The forum will be held on 
Wednesday in the Dowd Room in the UC 
from 4:45-5:45 pm. Light refreshments 
will be served. For more information, email 
Channon Kelly at channon@cmu.edu.
rARaseAS&aprdS
Attention: Chief 
LaPaglia is 50 years old. 
Keep moving. There’s 
nothing to see here. Go 
back to your homes.
Green beer?
How do they gel it into the keg?
Thank you for trying 
so hard — I can’t 
wait to see the ocean.
Yes Sir, Mr. M, he’s 
still studying...
Rough Sundays
The CS Department 
needs a petting zoo... 
with lots of goats.
Herine! Hey-loooo! How’r 
yooooouu? I like the Bach, 
have fun in Boston.
“What’r yew doin'? 
Shootin' yer butt!"
I am discouraged 
by this day. Yet all 
It’s over, 
issues...
