Volume 80, Number 23
April 8, 1980TARTAN
Camegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Last weekend's beautiful Spring weather seemed to be just the thing CMU students needed.
Senate re-runs election
by Jeanne
At the Student Senate meeting on Tues­
day, April 1, the Election Appeals Board 
announced their decision to re-run this 
year’s election. A re-vote will take place 
on April 23 and 24, between 9 AM and 12 
niidnight. The only polling booth will be 
in Skibo.
Petitions from additional candidates will 
be accepted before April 10. Those candi­
dates who ran in the first election do not 
have to re-petition. Seats are available for 
Student Government President, CIT (6), 
MCS (3), H&SS (2), CFA (4) and AMS (2).
Walt Young, GSIA Senator, proposed 
letting the Graduate Student Organization 
set up polls in GSIA and Science Hall, 
where graduates students could vote by
Abmayr
sealed ballot. The intent was to make it 
more convenient for the grad students to 
vote. However, it was pointed out that if 
they got their own polling places, other 
student organizations should have the same 
convenience. Setting up several booths 
would not enable Senate to run as tight an 
election as they want to, and the motion 
failed.
Although Chairperson Mike Inners did 
not want to comment on the decision to 
re-run the election at this time, Appeals 
Board member Ralph Sherman told the 
TARTAN, “It is unfortunate that this had 
to happen, but I hope that everyone will 
get involved and vote. I would really like 
to see another good voter turnout.”
CMU loses two of its own
by Doug Kirsop
EAC rec. gets approval
by Jeanne Abmayr
At the Faculty Senate meeting on 
Thursday, April 3, the Educational Affairs 
Council (EAC) presented a recommenda­
tion suggesting ways to improve the quality 
of teaching on campus. After a lengthy 
discussion and several revisions, Senate 
voted to accept the recommendation, 
which will now be forwarded to the 
Administration.
Several changes have occurred between 
the final draft and that which appeared in 
the March 4 issue of the TARTAN. These 
were, for the most part, minor clarifica­
tions; most of the text is identical to the 
original draft. However, the deletion of 
the word “mandatory” from the final 
point on teaching evaluations has entirelyCartertocut Aid
WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS) - High interest rates and 
President Carter’s new anti-inflation program may soon 
make it harder for middle class students to get federal 
financial aid.
Carter’s anti-inflation program includes a proposal 
to stop aid to 450,000 of the 1.8 million students cur­
rently covered under the Middle Income Student As­
sistance Program, which went into effect in November,
1978.
Bowman Cutter of the Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB) says the Administration hopes to expand 
aid to students from poor families as it cuts assistance to 
middle income students.
Before the middle income student program, only 
students from families earning less than $15,000 per 
year could qualify for aid. The new law raised the limit 
to $25,000.
As a result, a record number of students are now 
getting some form of federal aid.
A full third of the student body at the University 
of Houston, for example, now recieves aid. Financial a,id 
at the University of Kansas has increased by 70 percent 
since the law was signed.
Cutter says that the system has been abused, how-1 
ever. ,.
Most of the aid distributed to middle 
income families has come through guaran-
continued on page 4
changed the meaning and impact of the 
document. As now stated, the recommen­
dation is that a faculty/ student/ adminis­
tration committee deyelop mandatory pro­
cedures for evaluation, but evaluation of 
faculty members is in itself not mandatory.
Also voted on were policies for the 
scheduling and administering of undergrad­
uate final exams. These include publishing 
the schedule of exams as early as possible, 
requiring that all finals be given during fin­
als week, and allowing that no student be 
required to take more than two finals in
the same day. This recommendation was 
also accepted, and will be sent to the ad­
ministration for hopeful implementation.
Two CMU faculty members have recent­
ly lost their lives in water related incidents.
Last Friday, a canoeing accident in the 
Casselman River claimed the life of 33-year 
old GSIA economics assistant professor 
John Fitts.
The accident occured while Fitts and his 
partner were practicing for a race in Wash­
ington in two weeks. They tipped over in 
the decked canoe they were paddling, and 
before they could right themselves, they 
were washed into a bridge abutment.
The canoe, which resembles a kayak, 
then bent around the abutment and 
trapped them. Edric Florence, Fitts’ part­
ner, managed to escape... Fitts did not.
“It was a weird, freek accident,” said 
Kent Ford, a fellow paddler. He explained 
that Fitts, a nationally ranked paddler, and 
his partner had been practicing for about 
two hours, and were ‘just getting ready to 
quit” when the accident happened.
Both of the paddlers had experience on 
the river, and had together captured a third 
place trophy the weekend before. ‘They 
were really psyched for the season,” con­
tinued Ford, “and they didn’t violate any 
paddling rules... it just happened.”
Fitts body was recovered about two 
hours after the accident by a local fire de­
partment. He was pronounced dead at the 
scene.
He joined the GSIA faculty three years 
ago, after spending two years working in 
Malaysia for the Peace Corps after receiving 
his masters in economics from the Univer­
sity of Michigan.
A body found about half a mile from 
the Fort Pitt bridge two weeks ago has 
been positively identified as that of John 
Oakley.
Missing since he drove off from his 
home at 4 AM February 2 (see TARTAN, 
Feb. 19), he was identified through dental 
records. The Allegheny County Coroner’s 
office has ruled the cause of death as 
drowning, but have left the manner of 
death unspecified pending further investi­
gation.
Detectives have said, however, that 
there is “no suspicion right now” of foul 
play.
Bush to speak at CMU
Presidential Candidate George Bush will be at CMU on Thursday to 
address the PCPA conference. All interested CMU students are invited to 
listen to the former CIA director in the Wherrett Room at 10:00 AM.
ETS defends test
(CPS) — After almost three months, Educational 
Testing Services (ETS) has finally responded to Ralph 
Nader’s January report charging that standardized test­
ing was about as accurate a prediction of college success 
as a roll of the dice. ETS says Nader and co-author Alan 
Nairn themselves need a new pair of “carefully inspected” 
dice.
Nader’s 550-page report, compiled by Columbia 
University undergraduate Nairn, accused ETS — the lar­
gest manufacturer of standardized tests — of making 
“fraudulent claims” about its tests’ ability to predict 
first year grades for college freshmen. Nairn said that 
tests were racially and economically discriminatory, and 
that “people are struck out of opportunities in educa­
tional career areas on the basis of a three hour test.”
“Nairn claims that the dice will be as good a pre­
dictor as the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) for 88 per­
cent of the applicants,” ETS says in a recently released 
statement. “However, predictions based on valid infor­
mation will be better than random predictions. Nairn’s 
dice should be carefully inspected.”
ETS also contends that Nairn’s report wrongly 
assumes the tests are the most important factors in 
college admissions.
“Admissions test scores are used with students’ pre­
vious grades and other information in predicting later aca­
demic performance,” ETS claims. The best predictor 
of grades is both the high school record and SAT score

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Voting for the present...
History does repeat itself: in four year cycles. As proof 
we offer the last two presidential elections, the last two 
Olympiads, and the Student Senate elections held in cor­
responding years. What is the historical bond tying all of 
these events together? Controversy.
In 1976, the Student Senate elections were successfully 
contested, and again this year they have been successfully 
contested. What does it all mean, especially since we had the 
biggest voter turn-out ever for this year’s election?
For this year, it means that Senate didn’t handle the 
election nearly as carefully as they should have. But that’s 
past, and if we let the bad taste left by one messed-up 
election spoil the even better possibilities for the next one, 
then we deserve what we will probably end up with— 
another unresponsive, out-of-touch Senate.
It is going to cost over $650 to re-run the election, but it 
is worth it, considering the total budget allocated by Senate 
for the coming academic year is $216,000.
In order to run a tight election, the only polling place will 
be Skibo. Senate was wise in resisting pressures to add 
additional polling places, as this election must be utterly 
untainted.
And there are two bright spots to the re-run. First, 
anyone who was thinking about running, but didn’t, now 
has a second chance. Rules committee will accept new 
petitions until Thursday, April 10. Secondly, those who did 
not vote the first time now know how those who voted feel. 
If you didn’t vote in the original election, you now have an 
even more educated second guess. If you think the wrong 
people were elected the first time, then get out and vote on 
April 23 or 24.
We did it once, there is absolutely no reason we can’t do 
it even better a second time. Talk to your friends, talk to 
the candidates and get out to vote—
And for the future
Students can easily fall into their small world of academ­
ics and general campus life while easily forgetting that 
beyond the campus is a much larger world. But even the 
most isolated of students have, at least, some inkling of the 
Presidential campaign that has been going on over the past 
months.
The Pennsylvania Primary i$ almost upon us, and it is 
increasingly clear that this state is a crucial one in the 
determination of each party’s nominees. The results of the 
New York and Connecticut primary clearly demonstrated 
that the race is not yet over; your voice in the primary is 
crucial if there is to be a choice in November.
But voting, alone, is not enough. In order to make 
intelligent electoral decisions you must know the candidates 
and their stands on the issues. Do some research. One need 
only pick a daily newspaper in a weekly magazine to stay on 
top of the debate.
This election is riding on issues that will decide the 
future—our future. The outcome of the energy and inflation 
debate will drastically influence our lives over the next few 
year: the time spent researching both candidates and issues 
will be well spent.
The eighties belong to our generation more than any 
other. It is time we started exercising the right, privilege, 
and responsibility that is ours.
In Memoriam
The TARTAN extends its sympathies to the family, 
friends and students of Professor john Fitts and john 
Oakley, two distinguished members of the CMU community 
who died recently.
GOD BLESS ... ROSALYN, AMY, BILLY, MOMMY, OH!! AND WHILE YOU'RE AT IT, 
CAN YOU MAYBE ASK THE AYATOLLAH IF HE CAN LET THE FIFTY GO??Ileibt£Jrs
Fitts: a tragedy 
Editor:
It is very difficult to put into 
words what I felt when I heard 
that John Fitts died. The econo­
mics department’s “token Marxist” 
was a quiet, soft-spoken man 
whose lack of dynamism belied a 
deep intensity. He was easy to 
talk to, but I had the feeling that 
I was just starting to get to know 
him as more than a very bright 
economist and social theorist.
John was teaching a course 
in which I am enrolled, Radical 
Social, Political, and Economic 
Thought. It is the only course 
of its kind taught on this cam­
pus, but I get the distinct impres­
sion that it has subtly and unal­
terably changed the way its par­
ticipants think of society and 
their future roles in it. As one 
engineering student taking the 
course told me, “I was thinking 
of eventually being a manager 
in production, but I’m not sure 
I want to now.”
Earlier in the semester, John 
lent me a paper he wrote. I read 
through it, and discovered that 
the level of the subject matter 
was far above my head. On the 
day he was to die in a boating ac­
cident, I returned the paper to 
him, and he would explain it to 
me. I guess that is how I will re­
member him, as one of a very
few professors willing to help 
and to explain.
Often misunderstood, John 
Fitts was indeed a rarity on this 
campus. His death at age 34 is 
a tragedy and a waste, and he will 
be sorely missed.
Marie Kennet
Candidates on parade 
Editor:
Some personal thoughts that 
should make at least one person 
furious:
* The best campaign humor to 
date comes from Senator Robert 
Dole, who characterized the three 
Democratic candidates as “a voice 
from the past, a voice for the pres­
ent, and a voice that goes beep- 
beep.”TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 23 
April 8, 1980
Editor-in-Chief: Susan Borg 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
Associate Editor 
Production Manager 
News Editor: Jim Balsom 
Features Editor: Renee Rosenfeld 
Entertainment Editor: Richard Gorelick 
Contributing Editors: Michael Brzustowicz,
Jean Pellegrini 
Ken Kulak
Smita Pai 
Karen Stevens 
Doug Kirsop 
Ed Zayas
Sports Editor: Wesley Seeley 
Dossier Editor: Lynn Epstein 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman 
Art Director: Tom Hart
News: Jeanne Abmayr, Assistant Editor; Beth Arden, Jim Bost, Jeanette Bryan, Linda Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed 
Frankenberry, Chris Gebhardt, Dan Horgan, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Kim Kunkle, Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin, 
Elliot Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Landr Audrey Mojinie.
Entertainment: Paul Banks, Melody Mazzie, Alan Spero, Assistant Editors; Kate Bertrand, Alex Czajkowski, Bob Henry,
Dave Kirby, Timothy LeVan, James Patterson, Mignon Habmeau, Scott Schaeffer, Ted Smits,, Karen Stevens.
Sports: Perry Colosimo, Randy Condon, Pat Krump, Laurie Southorn, Skip Thrope, Denny Postufka, Leslie Weiser. 
Production: K. MacPhee Kulak, Assistant'Manager; Michael Brzustowicz, Beth Kurtz.
Photography: Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd
Art: Robert Conroy, Tom Megalis, Dave Robi nson.
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded ir» part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour an­
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206

---------------------------------------------------

_ ________ viewgCIT: Always improving, influencing, initiating
The following “View from the 
Top” was written by Angel 
Jordan, Dean of Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
It is fitting and proper now, 
after having been Dean for over 
seven months, to reflect on my 
views about CIT and about 
CMU at large. I am sufficiently 
new in the higher administration 
of CMU not to take myself seri­
ously. After all, I have been con­
nected with the faculty of this 
university for over twenty years.
In CIT, by a series of circum­
stances, the faculty, students and 
staff not only found themselves 
with a new Dean, but a new As­
sociate Dean (Mel Berstein), a new 
Head of Mechanical Engineering 
(Bill Sirignano), a new Head of 
Civil Engineering (Art Westerberg), 
and only recently with a new 
Head of Electrical Engineering 
(Floyd Humphrey). As Herb Toor, 
my predecessor, and Jerry Swedlow, 
the former Associate Dean, put it 
- this was a change of the guard. 
The guard was and is fortunate to 
have the advice and council of the
old sentinels — Herb Toor, Jerry 
Swedlow, Tom Fort, Art Murphy, 
Fran McMichail and Paul Christi- 
ano (who was Acting Head of 
Civil Engineering for almost a 
year), and Steve Director who 
generously served as Acting Head 
of Electrical Engineering for seven 
months; and to continue with the 
service of two veterans — Bob 
Sekerka in Metallurgy and Ma­
terials Science and Granger Mor­
gan in Engineering and Public 
Policy. Two prominent research 
centers in CIT and CMU are also 
under new leadership. The Center 
for the Joining of Materials, our 
classy Materials Research Labora­
tory, is now directed by Jim 
Langer (from Physics) and Jim 
Williams (from Metallurgy); and 
our prestigious Design Research 
Center is now directed by Steve 
Fenves. The collaboration of 
their predecessors, Lloyd Bauer 
and Art Westerberg, respectively, 
has facilitated the transition in 
these two interdisciplinary centers 
which are vital to CIT and CMU.
With proper deliberation, and
remarkably swiftly, a group of 
CIT faculty members under the 
stewardship of Mel Bernstein has 
changed what was already a very 
strong engineering curriculum into 
a better one. The new curriculum 
will provide ample breadth at the 
freshman level while helping the 
students better arrive at their selec­
tion of a major; will enhance the 
science base of the engineering 
disciplines; will maintain the tra­
ditional CIT emphasis in problem 
solving while affording the stu­
dents who want to engage in re­
search with an opportunity to em­
bark in meaningful research pro­
jects prior to graduation. In ad­
dition, the curricular structure 
leaves ample room for the essen­
tial H&SS component, which 
was designed and proposed by an 
interdisciplinary committee under 
the chairmanship of Granger Mor­
gan during Herb Toor’s administra­
tion.
In graduate education and re­
search, the new department heads 
together with the old ones, Mel 
Berstein and myself, are finding
it extremely stimulating and re­
warding to work with a faculty 
that has been significantly rebuilt 
and improved over the last seven 
to eight years. I sense from my 
frequent informal conversations 
with my faculty colleagues that 
striving for excellence and trying 
to meet new challenges are second 
nature in CIT. It is also refreshing 
to see faculty members, new and 
old, balancing their commitments 
to the university by doing high 
quality research while devoting 
a significant part of their time in 
upgrading! the education at CMU 
and improving their teaching. 
Some students often do not see 
these changes and improvements 
during their tenure at CMU and 
improving their teaching. Some 
students often do not see these 
changes and improvements during 
their tenure at CMU, but fre­
quent reports from many other 
students to me indicate that 
things are in an upswing, although 
we are not without problems. 
Who is?
In analyzing CIT and CMU in a
more global context, and in 
making comparisons with other 
universities we wish to compete 
with, I find comfort and pleasure 
in rediscovering that: CMU is 
quite unique in fostering inter­
disciplinarity in education and re­
search; our departments and col­
leges are much less compartmen­
talized than in most institutions; 
CIT can influence science and 
H&SS, and they can influence us; 
CIT engages in frequent dialogues 
and collaborative efforts with 
GSIA and SUPA, sometimes at 
our initiative; sometimes at their 
initiative; we are privileged to 
have at CMU a vibrant College of 
Fine Arts with exciting faculty 
and students who impact on the 
entire university.
I continue looking forward to 
exciting developments in our 
quest for excellence. It is fun 
being associated with a college 
which is always improving and 
with a university which is on the 
move.
Amnesty International examines the prisons of the U.S.S.R.
This opinion on the plight of 
political prisoners was written by 
Kim Kunkle, a student in H&SS.
“KGB gears up to *host’ Olym­
pics,” blares a headline on an arti­
cle from the Sunday Times of 
London— ironically, on the same 
sheet of paper is an article on 
how the United States Olympic 
Committee still hopes they can 
send an American team to 
Moscow. According to the Times, 
‘athletes who hope to go to the 
Moscow Olympics to carry a 
message from the free world and 
to establish bonds of friendship 
with Soviet athletes and citizens 
will, if the KGB has anything to 
do with it, have very little luck.’ 
Pre-Olympic preparations include 
“nests of dissenters...being cleared 
up; doubtful families, especially 
Christian believers, being moved 
out of the capital...dire warnings 
going out in various ways.”
This is frighteningly remini­
scent of the scene before the 
Olympics of *1936, “with the 
Nazis out doing themselves to 
create a favorable impression,” 
as William Shirer, author of The 
Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, 
said in his Berlin Diary.
Both Quentin Reynolds and 
Shirer, considered experts on 
Nazi Germany, and who have 
written about their experiences in 
the Third Reich, show their
great frustration at the ignorance 
and unwillingness to believe in the 
incredible repressions of regime 
which prevailed among Americans 
of the time. Shirer related one 
experience with several business­
men, who said they were told 
“there was no truth in what you 
fellows write about persecution of 
religion here,” and could not be 
convinced it existed; Reynolds 
gives similar accounts.
Today, however, we have plen­
ty of evidence of the repression of 
human rights in the Soviet Union. 
Solzhenitsyn’s three volumes of 
The Gulag Archipelago are an in­
credible catalog of perpetrations 
of human misery, made almost 
unbearable, at the end, with his 
realization that it still goes on, 
with his cry of anguish for ‘the 
present-day zeks.’ And Arkady 
Shevenko, the highest-ranking 
Soviet official to defect, spoke 
out for the first time since his 
defection to tell Americans that 
the repressions by the KGB 
are once again reaching the depths 
of “the darkest days of Stalin.”
Amnesty International, an apo­
litical organization which moni- 
ters the numbers and conditions 
of political prisoners throughout 
the world, and organizes support 
and protest groups for prisoners, 
had a whole book on ‘Prisoners 
of Conscience in the U.S.SJl.:
their treatment and conditions. 
In their annual report of 1979, 
they state that the U.S.S.R. and 
their Eastern European countries 
“retain legislation prescribing im­
prisonment specifically for the 
excercise of human rights in 
ways disapproved of by the au­
thorities.” Amnesty lists the many 
lav/s under which people can be 
imprisoned, and how they are 
applied— which must be read to 
be believed! For example, even a 
privately spoken complaint is 
grounds for imprisonment under 
an article covering “circulations 
of fabrications known to be false 
which defame Soviet State and 
Social System .’’Trials are “marked 
by frequent violations of inter­
nationally accepted standards for 
fair trial;” and “there has never in 
AJ.’s experience been an acquittal 
of a political defendant in the 
U.SS.R.”
Most people ‘convicted of poli­
tical or religious “crimes” are 
sentenced to “deprivation of li­
berty”, imprisonment in a prison 
or corrective labor camp. People 
are sentenced to different kinds of 
“regimes” in prison, by which 
conditions such as work required 
and food allowance are deter­
mined. Many prisoners of con­
science are put on the worst 
regimes, “strict” or “special.” 
For all prisoners, “hunger as a
permanent feature of ..life is pro­
vided for in the corrective labor 
legislation.” To make things worse, 
prisoners’ food rations can be 
reduced because of “underful- 
fillment of work norms” and 
“violations of regulations.” A 
prisoner “may see no fresh fruit 
or vegetables during the whole 
term of his confinement, and no 
milk” unless he’s put on a special 
hospital diet. Amnesty outlined 
the various prison diets which are 
incredibly meager— the highest 
number of calories provided in a 
day is 2,600.
Medical care is virtually non­
existent; according to Amnesty, 
this is one of the aspects of pri­
soner maintenance “in which is 
concentrated the greatest infliction 
of suffering upon them.’
Amnesty knows the names and 
locations of more than 330 
prisons and labor colonies where 
political prisoners are kept. One 
of the most chilling images I have 
ever seen is Solzhenitsyn’s map 
in his Gulag books, showing a 
landscape covered with the watch- 
towers indicative of labor camps.
Even more horrifying, perhaps, 
is the Soviet practice of commit­
ting political prisoners to psychi­
atric hospitals, where they can be 
kept “indefinitely.” Most politi­
cals are sent to “special” psychi­
atric hospitals, and there are nine
major ones in the U.S.S.R. These 
hospitals are administered by the 
MVD, therefore, there are no laws 
governing their conditions. Am­
nesty carefully reports the use of 
drugs as punishments and to 
break down prisoners, as well as 
other forms of punishment which 
are, quite simply, torture. One 
such method, called “roll-up”, 
involves completely rolling a per­
son up in wet canvas. The canvas 
constricts as it dries, producing 
agony so great people may lose 
consciousness, and “the whole 
section can hear the wails of the 
torture victim.” This “treatment” 
is sometimes applied for ‘10 
successive days.’
The Amnesty reports are very 
well-documented, and written in 
a very objective style. Perhaps 
other accounts of prisoners— such 
as that of Kudirka, a Soviet 
seaman who tried to defect, was 
confined to a mental institute, 
and finally released to America— 
seem more immediate; but the 
Amnesty reports are quite in­
formative and effective in out­
lining a picture of incredible 
horror.
At 8:00 on April 23, an expert 
on Soviet affairs from Amnesty 
International, Joshua Rubenstein, 
will speak on campus in Skibo 
ballroom. His subject will be 
‘Soviet dissidents and their strug- 
ble for human rights.’
* The greatest man to die on No­
vember 22, 1963 was Aldous 
Huxley.
* What is a “Barton Levinson”??
* Why do people think they are 
insulting you if they call you 
Adam Smith?
* If I believed that buying a for­
eign car would cost Douglas 
Fraser his job, the next time you
saw me I’d be driving a Toyota.
* The Soviet government has 
shown itself to be completely de­
void of merit, barbaric, ruthless, 
and totally undeserving of friend­
ship. However, a peanut farmer 
from Georgia should not be able 
to tell a wheat farmer from Iowa 
what he can or cannot do with his 
wheat.
* I didn’t agree with all of 
Andrew Young’s policies, but he 
was honest and intelligent, and 
therefore he stuck out like a sore 
thumb in the Carter administra­
tion.
* Ted Kennedy has yet to spon­
taneously construct an English 
sentence.
* Of all the Carters, the most
qualified to be President is Hod- 
ding.
* I could not, in good con­
science, buy a used car from John 
Connally.
* I could not, in good con­
science, sell a used car to Ted 
Cennedy.
* If the current rate of inflation
continues, freshmen should re­
ceive a salary of $41,408 upon 
graduation.
* Has anybody ever heard of 
Great Britain?
* How many Ronald Reagans 
does it take to screw in a light 
bulb?
I David P. Heddle, MIS

---------------------------------------------------

YQfc I
Page 4 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
University announces tuition rates for 1980-81
The following tuition rates will be in ef­
fect for the academic year 1980-81. 
Undergraduate Students
1. Full-Time Tuition
All undergraduate students enrolled for 36 
units or more of work per semester will be 
assessed full tuition $2350 per semester.
2. Per-Unit Tuition Rate
Any undergraduate student (see exception 
item 4 below) enrolled for fewer than 36 
units per semester will be assessed at the 
rate of $49 per unit.
3. Off-Campus Work
Undergraduate students who are enrolled 
for a full-time program (i.e. no campus 
work) of off-campus work (e.g. Argonne 
Laboratory, WQED drama practicum in 
repertory companies, etc.) for which CMU 
faculty must assign a grade, shall be asses­
sed -tuition at the rate of $24 per unit, up 
to a maximum of 25 units per semester for 
a maximum of two semesters. Units in 
excess of 25 per semester shall be asses­
sed at the regular tuition rate of $49 
per unit. Off-campus work scheduled forCarter plan to cut Aid
continued from page 1
teed loans. The student arranges for a loan 
from a local bank, while the government 
guarantees that the loan will be repaid. The 
student makes no payments on the loan 
until after graduation, when he or she pays 
seven percent interest. The government 
pays the difference between seven percent 
and the interest rate the bank normally 
charges its non-student customers.
The guaranteed loan program has be­
come increasingly costly for the govern­
ment because recent student loans, Cutter 
says, average around 15 percent interest.
The government consequently pays 
more interest-eight percent--than the stu­
dent, something Cutter calls “unaccept­
able.”
Cutter adds that “a disturbing” number 
of students have borrowed more money 
than they actually need for college under 
the program because the interest rate is so 
low.
“They can get seven percent money un­
der the guaranteed loan program,” he ex­
plains, “but they can’t get loans at less 
than 14 or 15 percent elsewhere. We fear 
that some students are trying to use the 
federal government as their bank. That is
not the intent ot the program."
An aid to Rep. William Ford, who heads 
the House postsecondary education sub­
committee, says the powerful Ford has not 
decided how he would vote on Carter’s 
proposal to cut guaranteed loan funding.
He did say that inflation has weakened 
the effort to help middle income families. 
‘The act was intended to help families de­
crease the percentage (of their income) 
they must use for education,” the aid, who 
requested anonymity, recalled.
“Because of inflation, the precentage is 
going up or staying the same. Either col­
leges are charging more, or people are get­
ting cost-of-living increases that push them 
over the ($25,000) limit. Those who mieht 
have benefited (from the program) may 
no longer be qualifying for it.”
The Carter administration is, moreover, 
trying to cut the average amount of the 
loans from $2,200 to $1,600.
The administration also wants to con­
centrate more on making direct loans to 
students. Cutter says the advantage is that 
direct loans are “easier to collect,” and 
that they can be more readily funnelled to 
students from poorer families.
more than two semesters shall be charged 
at the regular tuition rate.
Undergraduate students who are enrolled 
for both on-campus and off-campus work 
shall be charged at the regular tuition rates.
4. Pre-College Students Attending Second­
ary Schools (Academic Programs)
For pre-college students who are also in 
attendance at a secondary school and who 
are attending Carnegie-Mellon in an aca­
demic program on the recommendation 
and approval of their superintendent or 
principal, the per-unit tuition rate is $24 
per unit, up to a maximum of 24 units per 
semester. Units in excess of 24 will be 
charged the regular tuition rates, up to 
35 units. Enrollment in this category will 
not be permitted for students enrolled 
for more than 35 units.
1. Full-Time Tuition
All graduate students enrolled for 36 units 
or more of work per semester will be as­
sessed full tuition, $2750 per semester.
2. Per-Unit Tuition Rate
Any graduate student enrolled for fewer 
than 36 units per semester will be assessed 
at the following rates:
3. Completion of Thesis in Absentia
A doctoral student completing a thesis 
in absentia is required to enroll for five 
units of thesis -each semester until all 
requirements for the degree are completed. 
This policy applies to all students who 
leave CMU having completed all the re­
quirements for the doctoral degree ex­
cept for their thesis, up to and including
the semester in which the thesis is sub­
mitted and accepted.
CMU loses two of its own
continued from page 1
A research associate in computer science, 
his wife said that he had acted strangely 
since he struck his head on a beam January
19. He drove off from their home at 4 AM, 
and although his car was found downtown
later that day with the motor still running 
there was no trace of the 32-year-old 
Oakley.
His body will be cremated and returned 
to Seattle, where his parents live.
The new kid on the block
Mellon College of Science
Mellon Institute of Science (MIS) has 
had its name changed to Mellon College of 
Science(MCS). The change took place a 
few weeks ago due to considerable confu­
sion caused by the similarity between its 
name and the Mellon Institute (building) 
on Fifth Avenue.
The confusion resulted in telephone 
calls and mail repeatedly directed to the 
wrong Mellon Institute. It is hoped that
changing the name of the college will help 
solve that problem and eliminate what has 
been called a “constant source of confu­
sion”.
MCS staff members report that the 
change has been accepted surprisingly 
quick and already a good deal of incoming 
mail is addressed to the new Mellon College 
of Science.
*
Ii8
6
H&SS
SECOND ANNUAL
SPRING FLING
APRIL 20,1980
GATEWAY PARTY LINER
7-10 pm
BOARDING: 6:30 pm Monongahela Wharf
TICKETS 
8:00 am -11:00 am Coffee and Donuts
254CBH 
11:00am-5:00pm AAC 161BH 
Students $8.50 
Faculty and Staff $10.00 
Open to the campus community 
Sponsored by the H&SS SAC
W
w
&v.*\.
râ
VS
S#
jryf
Â
>V>:
n
€

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1980—TARTAN—Page 5
Humphrey heads EE
by Ed Frankenberry
Floyd B. Humphrey has been appointed 
as the permanent head of the Electrical 
Engineering Dept. The position was vacat­
ed by Angel Jordan when he became Dean 
of CIT, and has been filled by Acting Head, 
Stephen Director since September. The 
selection of Dr. Humphrey culminated a 
“long, thorough search during which many 
outstanding candidates from prestigious 
universities, including CMU, were consi­
dered,” according to Jordan.
Dr. Humphrey has been a professor of 
Electrical Engineering and Applied Physics 
at the California Institute of Technology. 
He will assume the position full-time in 
June, and will be “commuting” until 
then.
Prof. Humphrey’s primary area of 
research is in the physics of magnetic 
bubble devices. He is in the process of 
“putting together a research lab” for the 
study of magnetic bubble dynamics here at 
CMU. He is finishing the proposal for this 
major laboratory which will be the first 
of its kind outside of industry, and the
“center of all academic magnetic bubble 
research.” '
Humphrey beiieves that “ magnetic 
bubbles are the focal point of micro­
electronics,” and have wide ranging appli­
cations in the mass storage of information. 
Magnetic bubble devices are “now in 
production” for use in computer memories.
As head of the department, Humphrey 
deals with the concerns of students, their 
instructors and the curriculum. He is con­
sidering the establishment of a student 
lounge, and is interested in allowing 
“more time for freshmen to commit them­
selves,” by having no required courses in 
the first semester for students entering CIT. 
He will also be reviewing the mathematics 
requirements of the electrical engineering 
curriculum since “a good engineer needs 
math.”
In his new role, Humphrey oversees the 
operations of the department on a day to 
day basis and is liason between the faculty 
and the administration. He plans to “fill 
in the spots of [those] faculty” who have 
left, to supplement teaching in the circuits 
and materials areas. He feels the depart­
Floyd B. Humphrey is the new head of the Electrical Engineering department.
ment has an “impressive faculty” with 
broad research interests. He must attract 
and establish a faculty at a time when the 
“pressure for jobs drives up salaries.” 
He admits that “the salary offers of indus­
try“ are difficult or impossible to match 
and hopes to find more “named chairs” 
or professorships for the department as 
one solution. He is also aware that “there‘s
facilities, and hopes to reclaim some stor­
age space for the short term.
Humphrey describes Cal Tech as being 
“very small” and having an “emphasis on 
science.” “CMU is a very good school,” 
he explained, “[probably] as small as pos­
sible and still have a meaningful engineer­
ing program.” “The mark of Carnegie 
Tech is the linkage, or cross-structure”
not enough space” for existing and new between disciplines,in cooperative research.Comp. Sei. limits access to TOPS-C terminals
by Bob Fitzgerald
The Computer Science Department, and the Computation Center are concerned 
about long delays encountered by users 
who need access to terminals in the TOPS- 
C terminal room, ScH 5200. Extended 
waits of Vi hour, an hour and sometimes 
more for a terminal have been observed. 
When students must spend this much time 
waiting for a terminal, completing their 
assignments becomes unnecessarily diffi­
cult and time consuming.
In an attempt to alleviate these prob­
lems, the Computer Science Department
and the Computation Center have insti­
tuted an experimental scheduling system. 
Each user may reserve a limited number of 
terminal sessions each week at times of 
his or her choosing. All remaining terminal 
time continues to be available on a first- 
come-first-served basis.
This scheduling system is intended to 
make it possible for users to get access 
to minimal amount of terminal time with­
out wasting their time waiting for it. 
Additional terminal time is available as 
always for users willing to wait for it.
The Computer Science Department and
Computation Center would like to empha­
size that this system affects only some of 
the terminals in the TOPS-C public termi­
nal room, ScH 5200. The reservation sys­
tem in no way reduces the total quantity 
of terminal time available. It does not de­
crease the total terminal time available 
to a user. It does not increase the number 
of users competing for the available time. 
It does make it possible for people to make 
better use of their time by planning some 
of their use of the computer .
Any TOPS-C user may take advantage
of this system to reserve specific times 
for terminal sessions. All TOPS-C users 
are expected to honor reservations made 
through this system.
It would be nice if unlimited facilities 
were available. Since they are not, this 
system was devised in hopes of making 
it possible for people to make more effec­
tive use both of the facilities available and 
of their own time. The Computer Science 
Department and the Computation Center 
ask for your help and cooperation in at­
tempting to make this work.
NDSL 
LOANS
DO YOU HAVE ONE? 
ARE YOU LEAVING 
SCHOOL?
IF BOTH YES THEN
YOU MUST ATTEND AN
ONLY TAKES EXIT ONLY TAKES
5 5
MINUTES INTERVIEW MINUTES
A
APRIL 21-25 
9:00am - 4:00pm 
CASHIER'S OFFICE 
WARNER HALL
\iV *\
I\
I\
Is
Is
IVIVI
IsIsI\
I\
Is
Is
Is
IV
Is
Is
IV
I\
Is»s
I
I\
\s
\\
\s
The Summer Studies Office of Car- 
negie-Mellon University is looking to 
hire a staff of resident counselors to 
coordinate and supervise a student- 
life program for high school stu­
dents attending the Advanced Place­
ment/Early Admission, Fine Arts 
Pre-College and Project Upward 
Bound Programs. Counselors must 
be energetic and willing to live and 
work closely with the programs' par­
ticipants. Compensation is $1050 
and includes room and board for the 
six-week session, June 23 through 
August 1. Applications, along with 
the detailed job descriptions, are 
available in the Summer Studies Of­
fice, first floor of Warner Hall on 
Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday mor­
nings between 9:00 a.m. and 12 
noon.
IsIsI\Is
IsINIsINIVIsIs»
INININ
INI
IS
IsIs
»sIs»NIs
Is
IN
\\
\s

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 — TARTAN— April 8, 1980
Series of thefts over Break
by Larry Duffee
A rash of robberies and criminal mis 
chief were reported to campus during the 
Spring Break. Most notable of these rob­
beries was the theft of $3500 worth of 
photographic and audio equipment from 
Porter Hall, which was recovered, and the 
attempted theft of several hundred dollars 
worth of stereo components from Hender­
son Hall.
All over the CMU campus there were 
reports of minor robberies involving calcu­
lators and clock radios, such as in More- 
wood Gardens and Hamerschlag Hall. 
$270 worth of design supplies were taken 
from studios in Baker Hall. There were 
also reports of loud parties on campus and 
incidents involving waterballoons and auto­
mobiles by the fraternities.
On Sunday morning, the 23rd, there 
was reported leaving Porter Hall a young 
white male carrying a box in one arm and 
an attache case in the other. Upon seeing 
Campus Police, the suspect dropped the
items and ran back into Porter Hall, and 
eventually reaching Science Hall where the 
suspect was lost by Security. When the 
police investigated the scene they found 
the box and case the suspect was carrying, 
as well as another box used to prop the 
doors to Porter Hall open. Both of these 
boxes contained numerable items of pho­
tographic and audio equipment, including 
lenses, cameras, and speakers, that totaled 
$3500.
At Henderson Hall entry was gained to a 
dorm by removing the screen over the win­
dow. Once access was gained the actors 
took one Pioneer stereo worth $300, and a 
Pioneer casette deck worth $158.
Also in Mudge House a bottom floor 
room was entered by a young black male 
who broke the window and climbed into 
the room. When the owner of the room 
returned he surprised the suspect who 
dropped a stereo hfc was carrying, destroy­
ing it. Then the suspect fled behind More- 
wood Gardens.CMU seeking PBKchapt.
by Jeanne Jessup
Efforts are now underway to create a 
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa on campus. 
H&SS and MCS are the colleges involved 
Since Phi Beta Kappa requires that “mem­
ber institutions shall emphasize curricula 
definitely liberal in character and purpose 
and shall afford adequate instruction in 
the fields of the humane sciences and 
letters.”
At the request of Deáns Cre^ine and 
Berg, Susan Van Horn, Director of Extra­
curricular Activities, did the research 
necessary for the initial application form. 
This involved gathering data indicative of 
the quality of the school, faculty, and 
students. The initial request for a campus 
chapter came from Phi Beta Kappa faculty
members on campus. Professor Daniel 
Resnick is chairman of the committee at 
CMU, and the members are very 
enthusiastic about this attempt.
The next step will be completed in 
the fall with the submission of an overall, 
open-ended report that will seek to em- 
phansize the strengths of the school. By 
either neXt fall or spring, the Committee 
on Qualifications from the United Chapters 
in Washington, D.C. will visit the school, 
and a final decision will follow.An application was made in 1970, but 
at the time, H&SS had just been formed 
and MCS had just split from CIT. The 
denial letter v*(as encouraging in that it 
suggested that CMU would make it into 
Phi Beta Kappa once the two colleges 
became more settled.
Coming to campus:
PCPA convention at CMU
This weekend, the TARTAN will play 
host to the Pennsylvania Collegiate Press 
Association. Beginning Thursday, student 
editors and reporters from across the state 
will be coming to campus to attend work­
shops, siudy other student newspaper op­
erations, and receive awards for the best 
collegiate journalism in the state. The 
TARTAN, for the second year in a row, 
has dominated the awards competition.
The convention will begin on Thursday 
morning at 10 AM when Presidential 
càndidate George Bush will speak in the 
Wherrett Room. The lecture is open to the 
campus. There is no admission charge.
The convention will continue with 
workshops, all of which are open tc 
CMU faculty. Ralph Brem managing editoi 
of the Pittsburgh Press, Judy Fertig, KDKA 
radio new reporter, Dave Leherr, Post 
Gazette city editor, Jill Moyer Sunday 
Pittsburgher Magazine writer, Phil Musick 
Post-Gazette sportswriter, Ghalen Grimes 
WTAE-TV news reporter, plus a number of
others, will be featured speakers. Stop at 
the Skibo Information Desk for schedule 
information.
The convention will conclude with an 
awards banquet on Saturday evening
Eichmuller on DormLine
John Eichmuller, Director of Food Ser­
vice, will be the guest on SDC’s DormLine 
this Thursday from 8-9 PM in the More- 
wood Gardens Lobby.
DormLine will be broadcast over 
WRCT and all students are encouraged to 
be a part of the audience. Questions will 
be entertained from members of the audi-
AIESEC to host seminar
The CMU chapter of the International 
Association of Students in Economics 
and Business Management is hosting a 
career seminar open to all college students.
The seminar will feature some of Pitts­
burgh’s top local businessmen discussing 
their careers and the job opportunities in 
the fields of Marketing, Engineering and 
Management, Accounting, and Banking and 
Finance.
The speakers will include Charles Tel­
ler (Manager—Chemical Division, Koppers 
Company), T.A. McCononry (Vice Presi-
ence. Those who would prefer to call-in 
their questions will be able to do so, but 
will be unable to speak directly with Eich­
muller.
SDC is sponsoring this event with the 
cooperation of WRCT as part of a continu­
ing project to keep dorm residents more 
intormed and involved in campus life.
dent and General Manager, Calgon Corp­
oration), James Zug (Partner, Coopers & 
Lybrand), and Robert Fletcher (Senior 
Vice President— Operations Dept., Mellon 
Bank).
“This conference will be an excellent 
time for people with any interest in the 
business field to speak with people in key 
corporate positions,” said Anette Robuck, 
the seminar coordinator.
The seminar, which is free and open to 
the public, will begin in the Wherrett 
Room on Monday, April 10 at 7:30 PM
S U M MITJB¡00. KS
The author of ‘TheWmen’s Room’ has written an extawrdinaiy new novel about the devastating power of marriage- and the unexpected possibility of love.
Marilyn French’s first novel. was a life-changing experience for millions of women. THE BLEEDING HEART is even more remarkable—a love story for, and about, adults.A Featured Alternate of the Book-of the-Month Chib. $12.95 at
•emu bookstore*
IN BAKEN MALL

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1980—TARTAN—Page 7
Soviet buildupdiscussed
by Kim Kunkle
During the week of March 31, Dr. 
Henry Kissinger spoke at Carnegie Institute, 
and a state department representative, Dr. 
Leo Sartori, spoke on campus. They had 
entirely different points of view on 
America’s situation in the world today.
Kissinger, as he stated at the beginning 
of his talk, recounted a grim situation, but 
he feels the U.S. can still reverse an ominous 
trend against freedom in the world. He 
states that the Soviets now have nuclear 
superiority over the U.S., and this makeS 
their conventional superiority even more 
important. The Soviets have been building 
their armed forces at a rate of 5% a year 
for 18 years—meaning that four years ago 
they had doubled their forces from 1962. 
He believes that Soviet leaders, faced with 
the necessity if an upheaval of their eco­
nomic system (their GNP is half that of 
the U.S., one-fourth that of Western 
Europe), would prefer to make things safe 
around them first before causing internal 
problems and that Soviet leaders may 
want to get something out of the military 
system that they have built up at an in­
credible expense to their people, before it 
is obsolete in 5 or 10 years. And given the 
trend, since 1975, that every major change 
in the world has involved Soviet arms, 
troops, or proxy troops, and has been 
against governments friendly to the U.S., 
Kissinger feels the next 5 years will be 
dangerous.
Sartori, speaking in support of SALT 11, 
stated that it is in the best interests of the 
U.S. to pass SALT II, because there are 
fewer military projects that the U.S. can 
go forward on if SALT is not approved, 
than the Soviets could. He stated that one 
of his greatest fears is that anti-ballistic 
missiles, (ABMs) would be used again; the 
American theory behind abandoning ABMs
was that ‘mutual assured destruction’, 
resulting from no protection against flying 
missiles, would keep governments from 
risking a nuclear attack. When asked, 
during the lecture, about statements by a 
former senior technical advisor is SALT 
negotiations that, in event of a Soviet first 
strike which could destroy half the U.S. 
strategic arsenal, people in 97 percent of 
the Soviet Union would be able to leave 
their shelters for an 8-hour workday one 
week after American retaliation; and by 
Gen. George Brown, the Chariman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, in Senate testimony, 
that in a ‘worst-case’ nuclear shootout, 
Russia’s losses would be about half those 
of World War II, about 4 percent of the 
population—Mr. Sartori simply said they 
were wrong.
- *
¦ ¦ C
Frantic pushers and drivers geer up for Sweepstakes *80.
SDC to enforce fire regulations
by Ann E. Daley 
SDC, in the interest of dorm safety, will support Auxiliary Ser­
vices in enforcing housing contract rules which prohibit cooking in 
rooms. Auxiliary Services will be searching rooms to make sure 
that students do not have appliances plugged in and in use at the 
time of the search. An SDC officer will be present to insure stu­
dent’s rights. SDC also assures dorm residents that prior notice of 
these searches will be given to those involved.
SDC’s support of this action is due to the rash of small fires in 
Mudge and the inconsistency of the Morewood fire-alarm system. 
All cooking must be done in the kitchen areas provided.
Those SDC constituencies without representation on Rep. 
Council will have until April 15 to appoint a rep. He/she must 
attend at least one general meeting before they may obtain their 
funds. The frozen RSAF money from constituencies with no rep­
resentation will then be available to other represented constituen­
cies who have special plans or projects. These plans must be approv­
ed by Rep Council.
Issues also discussed at the last meeting included the Student 
Union Committee, which is being revived. Many members of SDC 
are interested in reviving the forgotten Student Union and will be 
setting it up with the help of Dean Swank._____________________
SDC is currently planning a major improvement project for dor­
mitory students with the money left over in the carry-over budget. 
Any suggestions or ideas will be gladly accepted; feel free to come 
and present them at the next general meeting.
SDC will sponsor a bi-weekly interview show on WRCT due to 
the success of the interview with President Cyert last week in Don- 
ner lounge. Students will have the opportunity to ask questions, 
make comments, etc., to important people in Administration and 
Food Service.
Guidelines have been set for reserving outdoor lounge areas in 
the central courtyard of Margaret Morrison Apartments and the 
área underneath Hamerschlag. Anyone planning an outside event 
should speak to their SDC representative for further information 
and rules.
Two new typing rooms will be installed on the Hill, one in the 
old mail room in Donner and one in the old wash room in Hamer­
schlag. These rooms will be supplied with a typewriter and desk for 
the convenience of dorm residents.
The Tartan Grill has gotten microwave ovens to quicken up 
food service and to keep the food hot. Food Service will also be 
starting a newsletter. If students have any complaints, questions or 
suggestions, talk to your SDC representative.
ATTENTION:
SKIBO PARKING PERMIT HOLDERS
Spring Carnival will be held Thursday-Saturday, April 17-19.
Area 5 and one half of Area 6 (Skibo) will be affected because of 
Carnival. These areas will be free of cars and available for use by 
Spring Carnival Committee (SCC), SDC, and APO after 6:00 p.m., 
Monday, April 14. To comply with this provision, parking restric­
tions in these areas will begin on Monday for incoming cars at 3:30 
p.m.
In addition, APO will put its concession vehicles in four spaces 
after 12:00 noon on Friday, April 11. All of Area 6 will be free of 
cars on Saturday, April 19, after 8:00 p.m. for incoming motorists.
SCC apologizes for the inconvenience and thanks you for your 
cooperation.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
A PFE program in two acts
Editor’s Note: Last week a talk was scheduled to be 
given by Staughton Lynd to the participants of the Program 
for Executives (PFE) which has been taking place here at 
CMU since January. When only two of the forty-odd 
PFE’s showed up, reporter Stuart Schilsserman went to 
find out why. This is his tale. The spirit of the article is 
accurate, however, some of the quotes may not be exact.
by Stu Schlisserman and Ken Kulak
Act I, Scene i
(The stage is dark. Stuart Schlisserman is seated stage left, 
and a spot is brought up revealing his ruddy, handsome 
features, and his long, flowing but quite scraggly beard. 
There is a desk in front of him, and his hands are folded 
across it. He speaks.)
Stuart :GSIA is in the midst of a controvery—but I do 
wonder if even they are aware of it. It is a quiet controvery, 
one of those sweet little scandals that everyone usually 
sweeps under the rug until it is brought out in a dramatic 
presentation thirty years after the fact. But since I can’t 
wait that long (I graduate in two years), I figured I’d write 
a rough version now so that members of the campus com­
munity could appreciate the drama, the trauma, and 
tragedy,and the romance.
So, as is customary with such circuses, “on with the 
show!” (Lights up full, revealing a small auditorium. There 
are circular tables facing stage right with really classy chairs, 
all filled with various typical members of the campus com­
munity. All are wearing signs, such as: “H&SS Junior,” 
“Token literate engineer,” “history Professor,” “Conser­
vative Economist,” and a small core of people seated 
in a front row table are all wearing little signs saying “Gee, 
how we love radical lectures. ” There are two (but only two) 
people wearing big signs which say “PIFFIE, PIFFIE,” 
and Stuart himself is wearing a large button which says 
“Token TARTAN reporter. ” Stage right is one very distin­
guished-looking gentleman wearing a little sign which says 
“Staughton Lynd, good guy.” All eyes are turned on him 
as he speaks.)
Lynd: I was told I would be speaking to a group of exe­
cutives this afternoon. I am glad to see so many young 
people running today’s corporations.”
(Lights dim, with spot up on Stuart.)
Stuart: Such an innocent comment! I’m perceptive, sure, 
but I had no idea what Staughton Lynd meant by those 
two sentences. And I wasn’t smart enough to look around 
and see that the audience consisted primarily of H&SS
Faculty and students. Being unfamiliar with GSIA, 1 had no 
idea who the executives, faculty, or students were. Nothing 
to lose sleep over, right?
(Stuart climbs on top of the desk, pulling a blanket over 
him and promptly falls asleep. Suddenly, a voice booms 
out:)
Voice: STUART SCHLISSERMAN!
Stuart: Huh? What? Who is it? (Stuart sits up, nearly falling 
off thè desk.)
Voice: I am the ghost of rumors present. Your editor- 
in-chief sent me.
Stuart: Oh, no! What—what do you want??
Voice : You know that talk you went to today?
Stuart: You mean the one by Staughton Lynd?
Voice: That’s the one, smart boy. You didn’t go to any of 
your classes, remember?
Stuart: Oh. Yeah. Well, what about it?
Voice : That talk was boycotted by the same people who it 
was set up for.
Stuart: You mean,the PIFFIEs?
Voice: Exactly. Didn’t you notice that there were only 2 
of the 44 executives there?
Stuart: No, I didnit. But what does it mean?
Voice: I’m not going to tell you. You’re just going to have 
to find that out. for yourself. But your editor wants an 
article on it by deadline Friday. Get to work! 
Stuart : Now what am I going to do?
Act I, Scene ii
(The office of GSIA professor Tom “A.C.L.U.” Kerr. 
Kerr is seated behind a large desk, and Stuart is hunched in 
a small chair in front of his desk, scribbling madly on a 
small pad.)
Kerr: Well, Stuart, the story is this. I invited Dr. Lynd to 
speak here way back in August. Dr. Jerome Foster, the 
professor who runs the PIFFIE program, was then in 
Europe, so I couldn’t talk it over with him. Instead, I went 
to see Bernie Goldsmith, the Director of Continuing Educa­
tion and the Associate Dean of GSIA, and told him that 
Lynd would be a good speaker because he was involved in 
trying to keep the steel mills open in Youngstown. Bernie 
agreed, so I went ahead and asked Dr. Lynd to come and 
speak on April 1.
But, much to my surprise, Dr. Foster comes to me on 
March 25 and says that he had “found out” that Lynd 
was a “socialist and activist lawyer.” Now, I told him that 
some socialists attended the PIFFIE program. The next day 
he tells me that the class of PIFFIE’s would be going to 
Falling Water on April 1.______________________________
Stuart: Oh, wow.
Kerr: I thought it would be a good idea to hear Lynd 
because his lawsuit in the steel cases was the most active 
recently, and would be a useful and educational academic 
exercise to hear Dr. Lynd present his views. At no time 
whatsoever, contrary to several rumors, did I cancel the 
lecture. And I take it as a personal affront that only 2 
people of the entire program attended the lecture. 
Stuart: Oh, wow.
Act I, Scene iii
(Lights up on a dingy, dusty office. There is an ancient 
Olympia typewriter in one comer, a huge pile of yellowing 
TARTANs in another, and a cluttered, falling-apart wooden 
desk. Stuart is asleep at the desk, with the phone dangling 
off the desk. Sweetie Pie, TARTAN Managing Editor, 
comes in to the office on tip-toe, hangs up the phone, 
leans against the wall and speaks.)
Sweetie: What’s the matter, Stuart, Goosey tire you out? 
Stuart: (Sits bolt upright) Huh? What? Who is it?
Sweetie: Me, dummy. What’cha been doing?
Stuart: Oh, it’s you. I’ve been making long distance phone 
calls for this article on the Lynd talk.
Sweetie: And what have you found?
Stuart: That PIFFIEs go on vacation as soon as their 
program ends. None of them are home!
Sweetie: Can’t you get any of them?
Stuart: Actually, a few are home. I just got off the phone 
with Ed Domaingue, who told me a really strange story. He 
had been told that the Lynd lecture had been cancelled, 
and alternate plans made. Being a good reporter- 
Sweetie: Uhhuh.
Stuart: I naturally asked him who told him that the talk 
was cancelled, and he said that it was Foster. I said that 
this explained everything because “Professor Kerr had told 
me.” And here he interrupted me to rant and rave about 
how Kerr was a sorespot with the PIFFIEs from Day 1, 
and how Kerr’s attitude had managed to antagonize 90% 
of the Execs.
Sweetie: What attitude?
Stuart: I don’t know. Maybe because he’s liberal? Anyway, 
Domaingue went on to tell me about when Kerr gave a talk 
on Sexuality and the Work Force, which he said was just 
kerr “riding his favorite dead horse for the past 10 years,” 
and that Kerr had managed to offend every executive and 
wife present. Supposedly, many people had walked out of 
the lecture, including Dr. Foster. Accordding to
continued on page 25
In PersonGEORGE BUSH
Contender for the Republican Presidential Nomination
Thursday, April 10th in the 
Wherrett Room, at 10 AM
sponsored by The TARTAN and 
the Pennsylvania Collegiate Press Association

---------------------------------------------------

-----------
29,000 rally in Washington against “Exxon's war”
photo by Renee Rosenfeld
Although it was a chilly windy day in Washington, the March 22 Anti-Draft rally 
attracted 29,000 people proclaiming that they “won’t die for crude.” The protesters 
gathered at the Ellipse behind the White House and marched together to the rally on 
Capital Hill. While the events were somewhat reminiscient of the 1960’s anti-war pro­
tests, the crowd was friendly and there were no police-protester conflicts. Rally leaders 
seemed optimistic that Carter’s proposal to draft 19 and 20 year olds would meet its 
death in Congress. The rally was led by the Reverend Barry Lynn, Chairman of the 
Committee Against Registration and the Draft. Also present were: David W. Dellinger, 
one of the Chicago 7 defendants; Stokely Carmichael, black activist-"feminist Bella 
Abzug, and Michael Harrington, author and head of the Democratic Socialists Organ­
izing Committee. What follows is a photographic account of the rally.
photo by Linda Viventi
iNStf^
-Crecine 
—New Major! 
-Radiation Victims

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - TARTAN-April 8, 1980
In 1975 there was 
no “SS” in 
“H&SS”
Engineering and Physics). Following 
graduation, he worked as an operations 
researcher for three years and as an econo­
mist at the Rand Corporation for one year-. 
Graduate studies took him to Stanford’s 
Business School, but he found, much to 
his chagrin, that all of the intellectual 
action was going on at his alma mater, 
CMU, revolving around people he had 
worked with while in school, men like Dr. 
Herbert Simon. With a Ford Foundation 
scholarship in hand, he returned to CMU
to earn his graduate degree from GSIA. 
He then traveled to the University of 
Michigan in 1966 where he was a professor 
of Political Science and Sociology and was 
instrumental in developing a graduate pro­
gram in Public Policy, the first in the 
country.
In 1975, after a ten year abscence, he 
returned to CMU to fill the role of Dean
of the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences. He brought with him his concept 
of the “core curriculum,” that which is 
synonymous with the college at present. 
The core is an integrated series of courses,, 
designed to provide the student with a 
wide base of knowledge, rather than 
limiting him to a specific discipline. It 
is an expression of a philosophy of liberal
This Summer Earn College Credits in
New York City atsons,lOOl Ofesign
This summer come to New York and 
study in Greenwich Village, at a 
school famous in the art world as well 
as in a city world famous as a cultural 
and art center.
Parsons School of Design offers a 
series of summer courses designed for 
college students who wish to supple­
ment their art studies. These courses 
are taught by some of New York’s 
most distinguished professionals and 
run from July 7th thru August 1st, 
Monday thru Thursday. They allow 
students ample time to see how theory 
is put to practical application in the 
great arts capital of New York. Each 
course carries 4 credits.
Dormitory space and scholarships 
are available.
For more information on courses, 
registration and accommodations 
mail the coupon below or call 
(212) 741-8975.
Courses of study include:
Drawing
Painting
Graphic Design
Illustration
Environmental Design 
Photography 
Fashion Design
Parsons School of Design
Assistant Dean’s Office
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011
Please send me more information on college courses in New York this summer.
Name.
Address.
City/State/Zip.
History and Philosophy Department and a 
Modern Languages Department. There was 
no “SS“ in “H&SS;” Social Sciences and 
Economics were virtually nonexistent. 
What courses there were, were taught by 
SUPA (School of Urban and Public Affairs) 
faculty. A Social Relations major was 
available, but there was no department. 
Psychology was a separate entity loosely 
affiliated with GSIA.
“It was pretty clear that the first order 
of business was to create a college; a 
college of Humanities was just too nar­
rowly based an operation to be viable.... 
one could be relatively viable at that nar­
row of an organizational base in the 60’s ... 
but in the 70’s and 80’s , it is pretty clear 
that a college of Humanities could not 
survive in most places and certainly would 
not survive on this campus, so we tried to 
create something that was both responsive 
to recent interest in professional education 
and preserved the integrity of a disciplinary 
education and be able to attract students..” 
Crecine noted. The goal was to establish 
a first class liberal arts education.
With the help of men like Dr. Lee 
Gregg, Head of the Psychology Depart­
ment, and Dr. Herbert Simon, Professor 
of Computer Science and Psychology, and 
the cooperation of the faculty, the core 
was instituted in its rough form \xh years 
after the Dean took on the position. Psy- 
continued on page 12
SIR ISAAC NEWTON T-SHIRTS
(Now available in all colors)
Please send me T-Shirts at $4.00 each. 
Enclosed is a check for S (Please specify 
size as small, medium, large or x-large.)
ColorName___
Address.
Phone No.
Checks to:
The T-Shirt Co.c/o Student Corporation
Box 968 Donner
Campus Mail v
Another Student Corporation Company
John Crecine: Profile of a man behind H&SS
by Kathy Krummert
. John P. Crecine is the Dean of the Col­
lege of Humanities and Social Sciences; 
1980 marks his fifth year in that position. 
In light of his anniversary, I spoke with 
him during open office hours (which he 
holds weekly). In doing so, I learned about 
his background, his philosophy on liberal 
arts education, his role in the implementa­
tion of the core curriculum, his feelings 
about the college and its students, and his 
work outside the university.
John Crecine received his undergraduate 
degree in Industrial Management from 
CMU (after initial interests in Electrical
arts education based on the belief that 
the student will benefit by having a degree 
of diversity accompaning his concentra­
tion.
What was the college of H&SS in l975? 
It consited of an English Department, a
“It was pretty clear 
that the first order of 
business was to create 
a college...”

---------------------------------------------------

oXP®M
- Cw » WMfHlto ^ ^—rrxx nj Y^H
L/t1/
RUSH
HOURRELAYS
XSIGN UP
AT SKIBO INFO DESK 
ON APRIL 18
The first seven teams to sign 
up with six team members eligible
EVENTS ON MIDWAY
• Pie Eating Contest 
Bobbing for Apples 
Apple Obstacle Course and more 
winningteam will participate in the 
ribbon cutting ceremonies.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
John Crecine enters fifth year as Dean of H&SS
continued from page 10
chology became a member deparment of 
the college and the Social Science Depart­
ment was created. Was there any opposi­
tion at the time? “Yes, lots, inside and 
outside. A lot of that was just an expres­
sion of a great deal of anxiety...”
And so, the college became one of Hu­
manities and Social Sciences, complete 
with the new core curriculum.
Having learned all of this, I asked the 
Dean a few questions: Are you satisfied 
thus far with the development of the 
college? “Yes. One of the things I’m 
most pleased about is the attitude the 
students have toward the college...it has 
turned around...we have a very good group 
of students, they seem to be learning a lot 
and enjoying it in the process... you don’t 
see people down on themselves and the 
college like you saw three or four years
ago.” Is H&SS better accepted? “Yes.”
...Despite the continual bickering be­
tween the colleges?
“Any kind of society or large organi­
zation takes at least five years to catch up 
to' reality...” Dean Crecine went orT to 
speak abouth the usual anxieties and in­
securities of people encountering unfam­
iliar subjects, and the conflicts they can 
cause.
What about the student/faculty rela­
tionships?
“One of the things the college has al­
ways been known for... is that the faculty, 
has always cared about teaching the 
students., .has wanted to do a professional 
job...there have been exceptions, but 
relatively few. What one finds is that you 
have to work pretty hard if you’re a 
student in this college and not have a 
close relationship with four or five or six
IRON CITYSCHUTZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMPALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHLITZ MALT BALLANTtNE ALE MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB PABST 
MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS • PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45. MOL SON ALE. LOWENBNAU DARK 
STROHS HEINEKEN LIGHTOne diiftrenl IS or S ok featured etch wee*
Carteoc u AidCo 
CarEoc TitoS fnsVsf S ghttep. ghaI 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER­
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
• SPECIALTY ITEMS •
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES • PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
--------------- IMPORTS -----------------
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC 
621-7388 or 621-1185
•BASS ALE England
• DORT HANSA Germany 
•SAM MIGUEL PN*pmes 
•SPATENBRAU Germany
• ST P AUU GIRL Germany 
•PILSNER URQUELL Ciec* 
•GUINESS STOUT Ireland
• DAS XX EQUIS Mexico
• WURZBURGER Germany
• HARP LAGER Ireland 
•LOWENBRAU Germany 
•O’KEEFE ALE Canada 
•DINKEL ACKER Germwty 
•TECATE Mexico 
•ISENBECK W Germany 
•IRYSTAU. Italy 
•MACKESON England
• KIRIN Japan
• PERONI Italy
• RIGNES Norway
• BECKS Germany
• HOFBRAU Germany 
•ZYWIEC Poland 
•KRAKUS Poland
• SUPERIOR Mexico 
•FUbltRS AuatraHie 
•HEINEKEN Hoiand 
•MOLSON ALE Canada 
•PAULANER Germany 
•GOSSER Auatrta
• TANKARO London
• UNION W Germany 
•PALE ALE Londori 
•DINKEL Germany
• W ARFTEINEL Germany
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
faculty ...And, there’s a bit of tension 
built into this role relationship.”
Are you satisfied with the progess of 
the college? What do you forsee for the 
future?
“I’m satisfied...our progress has been
“... nowihe college has 
the resources to meet 
its responsibilities.”
much more rapid than any of us had ever 
any right to expect...a lot of the credit 
belongs to people who have been at Came- 
gie-Mellon for a long time and who are 
dedicated to the place. H&SS five years 
ago had the resources of a college of 
Humanities and the responsibilities of a 
college of humanities and social sciences.” 
That has changed; now the college has the 
resources to meet its responibilities.
Dean Crecine, though highly pleased 
with the College, is aware of its weak-
nesses. The Social Science Department 
needs expansion, and the Economics De­
partment must be established within the 
College. A stronger organizational base 
must be developed for the college on the 
whole. And, “as a college, we’ve got to 
take a hard look at graduate programs... 
the quality of a college is a holistic kind of 
thing; one can’t have things of different 
quality. If the last few years are any in­
dication, there is a lot to work with.”
As important as the Dean’s activities 
within the College, is his work beyond 
the campus. One example is his research 
with the OMB (Office of the Management 
and Budget) in Washington, D.C. Talking 
about his outside research, Dean Crecine 
said “I really try to force myself to contin­
ue to be an active scholar...it’s very hard 
sometimes...there are just a lot of pres­
sures., lio we ver, I don’t feel I can be a good 
administrator unless I can essentially walk 
away from it with a clear conscience. One 
needs the realization of the research envir­
onment, a feeling for how hard it is to do 
research...for both faculty and students.” 
Dean Crecine ended our conversatoin 
with the enthusiastic comment; “One of 
my favorite activities is working with the 
students.”
European Studies Program
by Kathy Krummert
Beginning next semester, students will 
have another liberal-professional major 
available to them that stems from the 
College of Humanities and Social Science. 
The new European Studies Program offers 
courses dealing with the social life, culture, 
foreign policy, and comparitive analysis of 
Europe. One may choose the program as 
a major or minor.
Why was the program developed? To 
meet the increasing need both nationally
and in career training, for people knowl- 
edgable of foreign society. With the ever- 
important role of the United States in 
diplomatic, military, and economic affairs 
abroad, it is important for business and 
government members to have an under­
standing of the societies outside the United 
States being dealt with. Recently there has 
been a severe decline in programs dealing 
with non-American studies, including 
foreign languages. This program will be
continued on page 13
WELCOME
PENNSYLVANIA COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION
0>re
This is the best looking crop of delegates in 
the history of the convention!! By the way, 
CMU students are invited to all the 
workshops (April 10, 11, and 12). Check the 
Skibo Information Desk for schedule. See 
these talented, charismatic speakers:
Dave Leherr, City Editor, Pgh. Post-Gazette 
Ralph Brem, Managing Editor, Pgh. Press 
Tom Kerr, President, Pgh. ACLU 
Jill Moyer Sunday & Lesley Becker,
Pitts burgher Magazine 
Phil Musick, Post-Gazette sports writer 
Judy Fertig, KDKA radio news reporter 
Ghalen Grimes, WTAE-TV news reporter

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1980-TARTAN-Page 13
Beginning in Fall 1980, there will be a new sequence of courses dealing with the 
history and culture of the Pittsburgh region.
The program is a four-course, four-semester, inter-disciplinary sequence, designed to 
move from a general overview to more specific topics. It will allow non-H&SS students 
to fulfill part of their humanities requirements.
The sequence will consider, on the one hand, such urban studies topics as the impact 
of technology, industrial and corporate growth, and the varieties of the region’s ethnic 
groups. On the other, it will examine ways in which the arts have portrayed the special 
features of Pittsburgh.
More than most courses, the sequence will require students to work in community 
setting, doing architectural plottings of neighborhoods; oral history interviewing; deed 
and title searching; demographic surveying; picture-taking, etc.
Course I: Fall 1980
i&STORY OF THE PITTSBURGH REGION (Weber)
An analysis, from beginnings to the present, of the interaction of com­
mercial/industrial development with class structure, ethnicity and neigh- 
•; borhood change. ; \ ' - ^ . '
Course II: Spring 1981
Select one of the following:
•': v ¦;£::•" '-si?/-.\spo nr •*: ¦:^'-0'-•¦. < :x:>• • •:^'::••••;"' • ,.v;:•':•.; ¦' v •• ¦: :• j ¦:V,\: ¦' i;> :•; •"x.
5 ARCHttl8$lWR$OjP THE PITTSBURGH REGION (Toker)
A study of urban styles and their relation to neighborhood commerce, 
class and ethnicity, and traditional architectural practices.
LITERATURE OF THE PITTSBURGH REGION (Demarest)
A survey, mostly of novels about Pittsburgh, designed to examine the
evolution of cultural attitudes: eg., the “W ASP/Puritan” values espoused
by the late 19th century entrepreneurs; the development of an “arts” 
community; the growth of labor-union consciousness.
Course III: Fall 1981
V THE CITY AND TECHNOLOGY (Tarr) i
An examination of the impact of technological systems — e.g., transpor­
tation, water and sewerage, pollution - on the Pittsburgh environment.
Course IV: Spring 1982
(restricted to students who have taken the first three semesters of the se^ 
quence)
PITTSBURGH PROJECT COURSE (team-taught)
The project course will be a fieldwork experience examing public policy 
problems*or issues of current interest to the Pittsburgh community; e.g. 
the threat of plant closings; integration via busing; Downtown building 
projects, etc. The topic will change from year to year.
Great Moments inthehistoiyofhair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re­
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair.
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters BJech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to spiit in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
fRPiCJITWNS.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
ll00
Mon. Tues. Wed. -10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25oo
NO
APPOINTMENTS
Are you ugly?
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service 
Fraternity is once again presenting UMOC 
the Ugliest Man (person) On Campus con­
test. Contestants are entered by either 
making themselves or a friend as ugly as 
possible and sending a picture to A Phi 0. 
UMOC is all in fun and used to make 
money for charity. This year’s charity is 
Muscular Distrophy.
Funds are raised through voting, which 
is done with money. The contestant 
receiving the most money under his/her 
picture becomes the winner. In the spirit 
of the contest the winner receives an ugly 
face mug hand pottered this year by 
John Schunck of Fine Arts.
To give you an idea of what was 
entered in the past, we found some 
pictures from the 1968 contest. Some of 
this year’s entrees are ‘The Buc,” and 
“Horatio Nehiemiah Felatio.”
Voting will be April 9, 10, 11. A 
booth will be set up in Science Hall on 
Wednesday, Skibo on Thursday, and 
Baker Hall on Friday. ____
European Studies Program
continued from page 12
one step toward meeting the growing need, 
as well as providing background for those 
interested in broadening their knowledge 
of the wider world.
The program seeks to: 1) develop sub­
stantive knowledge of European culture 
and society, primarily Western Europe. 
This will be accomplished through the study 
of special topics and broader programs 
through an interdisciplinary approach; 
2) encourage the development of foreign 
language skills and their use for further 
study of topics; 3) stimulate comparitive 
thinking from an unparochial view, and 
4) provide cultural enrichment for human­
ities and non-humanities in technology and 
science and to build relevant professional 
skills.
“The Dynamics of European Studies 
will serve as the introductory course to the 
program.
The program is directed by a steering 
committee within H&SS, composed of 
faculty from several disciplines and is 
advised by a larger steering committee of 
members of the University from various 
areas such as science, technology, the arts 
and business. Questions and information 
concerning the program can be obtained by 
contacting Peter N. Stearns, Heinz Prof­
essor of History.
TICKET SELLERS 
NEEDED FOR
SPRING CARNIVAL
APRIL 17-18-19
sell tickets on midway 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday
For more information see:
ANN WITCHNER 
MARY JO RUDMAN 
SKIBO INFO. DESK

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
Book Review: KGB, ‘the most authoritive account...’
by Kim Kunkle
KGB, by John Barron, is probably one 
of the most stunning and uniquely inform­
ative books available today, (from Bantam 
books, $350) A former director of the 
Bureau of Intelligence of the U.S. Depart­
ment of State has called KGB ‘the most 
authoritive account of the KGB I have ever 
seen.’ It is well written, exciting—actually 
enjoyable to read. Much of it reads like a 
spy novel, with James Bond-like plots and 
devices, but it is entirely documented and 
substantiated. Much information comes 
from actual participants-‘all postwar KGB 
defectors except two.’
One fascinating appendix of the book 
contains the names of more than 2000 
‘Soviet citizens engaged in clandestine 
operations abroad.' Another is a copy of a 
top secret KGB training manual entitled 
‘the practice of recruiting Americans in the 
U.S.A. and Third Countries.’ Several chap­
ters deal with individual cases of spies and 
assassins, and operation against other gov­
ernments.
There are stories of Soviet ‘diplomats’ 
who were primarily KGB agents. One grip­
ping chapter deals with an attempt to turn 
Mexico into ‘another Vietnam,’ shortly 
before the Olympics there, with guerilla
leaders trained in North Korea—which 
nearly succeeded.
Another chapter deals with the KGB’s 
‘disinformation branch,’ whose main pur­
pose is to spread false, damaging impres­
sions about America and other countries, 
faking documents and spreading rumors. 
For instance, the KGB tried to spread 
fear and distrust of West Germany by 
raising the spectre of Nazism with a series 
of anti-Semitic attacks. And it was respon­
sible for a massive deception to make an 
American vice-president think that a prison 
camp, where over a million prisoners had 
died in four years, was a lovely settlement.
One saddening—and horrifying—aspect 
of the book is the accounts of the brutal 
repression and terrorizing of the people of 
the Soviet Union. Barron tells of a family 
whose children were sent to State orphan­
ages and the parents sent to labor camps 
because they had given them religious 
instructions; of a young poet who was sent 
to a labor camp where he was allowed to 
die of intreated peritonitis, after protesting 
the Soviet invasion of Czecoslovakia; of 
the inhuman treatment of prisoners in 
mental institutions—of which Solzhenitsyn 
says, it is ‘spiritual murder... another ver­
sion of the gas chamber, but even moreHewlett displays woodcuts
An exhibit of woodcut prints by inter­
na tionallyrknown Japanese artist, Naoka 
Matsubara, will be on display at Carnegie- 
Mellon University’s Hewlett Gallery open­
ing March 31, with a reception for the 
artist from 7 to 9 PM. The exhibit will con­
tinue through April 18 during regular gal­
lery hours.
Matsubara’s technique can best be des­
cribed as one of spontaneity with a free 
direct approach to her work. She never 
drafts in pencil or carves over a sketch. To 
do this she says, “would no longer be 
woodcutting. The v-tool is my pen and the 
board is my sheet of paper.” She works 
with cherry wood, white pine and plywood 
for the larger pieces.
In describing her work, she wrote in 
1963, “My themes are always based on 
imagination and feeling—impressions ac­
quired through seeing and hearing everyday 
life. The stronger the feeling, the clearer 
the image created in my mind.”
Matsubara has exhibited her woodcuts 
extensively throughout the world in one- 
person and group shows, including the Art 
Gallery of Greater Victoria in British Co-
ÇftWttb
A girt becomes a «vornan when she assumes responsibility 
kx her seit
Al Women s Meati* Sendees you recew
» Ffft pregnancy lestmg
Contraceptive care pro^am 
Se«uaMy coun«e*mg 
Marriage coun*etmg
Learn how your body works 
and tafce good care ot it 
C a* or «me today
u hr?
lumbia, Canada, the Cincinnati Art 
Museum, the Suzuki Graphic Gallery in 
New York and at the Galerie Daberkow in 
Frankfurt, Germany. Her work was last 
shown in Pittsburgh in 1976 in “Eight- 
Hundred Years of Japanese Printmaking” 
at Carnegie Institute.
Her prints are on display in the White 
House and are in the permanent collection 
of many museums, including the Carnegie 
Museum in Pittsburgh, the Klingpor Mu­
seum in Germany as well as in the Library 
of Congress. In 1967, she was commission­
ed by the Smithsonian Institution to make 
a print for the exhibition supporting the 
Geneva Peace Conference.
A native of Shikoku, Japan, Matsubara 
has studied at the Kyoto Municipal College 
of Fine Arts, and a Fulbright Travel Grant 
allowed her to come to the United States 
and study at CMU, where she earned her 
MFA in 1962. She also studied for a year 
at the Department of Graphic Arts at the 
Royal College of Art in London. Matsubara 
has lived in Ontario since 1971.
The Hewlett Gallery, located on the 
first floor of the College of Fine Arts on 
the CMU campus, is open to the public, 
free of charge, Monday through Saturday, 
10 AM to 4 PM and Sunday from 1 PM to
5 PM.
cruel: the sufferings of those being killed 
are more painful and more prolonged.’
Barron fives a list of representative cases 
of people arrested by the KGB since 1969.
A few examples’ D.F.Mikeyev, 31, a grad­
uate physics student, 8 years in concentra­
tion camp for trying to leave Soviet Union
illegally and seek asylum abroad; a Baptist 
leader, 5 years imprisonment for instruc­
ting children in religion; a state official,
35, ‘forcible treatment’ in a psychiatric 
hospital for ‘Anti-Soviet writings;’ a 19- 
year-old girl, unlimited confinement in an 
insane asylum for opposing a celebration 
of Stalin’s birthday; a professor of history,
35, 6 years imprisonment plus 3 years in 
a concentration camp under Stalin con­
tinued to run them under Brezhnev.
From another training manual comes 
the fact that ‘KGB patrols in 1965 cap­
tured more than 2000 people attempting 
to escape the U.S.S.R.’ Such attempts,
Nuclear victims tour
under various laws, can be punished by 
anything from 1 year in prison to death.
The single most poignant role in the 
book is from a letter smuggled out of an 
insane asylum, written by an imprisoned 
poet who knew he would soon undergo 
‘treatment.’ He wrote, ‘I’m afraid of 
death, but I’ll accept .it. I’m terribly 
afraid of torture. But there is a worse tor­
ture, and awaits me— the introduction of 
chemicals into my mind...maybe I will 
remain alive, but after this I won’t be able 
to write even one poem. I won’t be able to 
think. I have already been informed of the 
decision for my “treatment.” Farewell.’
note: On April 23, at 8:00, a specialist on 
Soviet affairs from Amnesty International, 
an organization which monitors and works 
to better the conditions of political prison­
ers throughout the world, will speak in 
Skibo.
Two Hibakushas (victims of the Hiro­
shima bombing) and a Japanese Buddhist 
leader will be in Pittsburgh as part of a 
dramatic national Japanese - U.S. Nuclear 
Victims Tour. It is being sponsored nation­
ally by the Religious Task Force of the 
Mobilization for Survival with the support 
of the National Council of Churches. Lo­
cally, the Pittsburgh Mobilization for Sur­
vival and the Thomas Merton Center are 
co-sponsors.
Public events will bring together the 
Japanese visitors and people from Western 
Pennsylvania who have been affected by 
nuclear radiation. The Japanese delegation 
will include:
Mrs. Hisako Odoriba — Hibakusha, who 
was 1.5 km from the hypocenter of the 
Hiroshima bomb inside a building.
Mr. Maseao Kayo — Hibakusha, who is 
a member of the Board of Directors of the 
Japanese Confederation of A & H Bomb 
Victims Organizations. Mr. Kayo lives in 
Okayama.
Ven. Tetsuen Nakajima — Asian 
Buddhist Conference for Peace / Japan 
Center leader, Fukui Pref. Citizens against 
Nuclear Power, Gen.-Sec. of Fukui Pref. 
Religionists Council for Peace.
The public is invited to attend two 
events planned for the visit:
Public Meeting Wednesday, April 9, 
1980 at 8 PM, Friends Meeting House, 
4836 Ellsworth Avenue, Oakland. Speakers 
will include members of the Japanese dele­
gation, local radiation victims, and Thomas 
Kerr, who chairs the Pennsylvania Ameri­
can Civil liberties Union. A slideshow, “I 
Have 3 Children of MY Own,” narrated by 
Dr. Helen Caldicott, will be part of the 
program.
Luncheon Meeting: Thursday, April 
10th, 12:30 PM at Lawless Hall, St. Mary 
of Mercy Church, Third and Stanwix 
Streets, Downtown. Reservations may be 
made by April 8th by calling the Thomas 
Merton Center at 381-1400. A donation of 
$3.00 is requested for lunch. Local child­
ren will present the delegation with peace 
cranes which they folded origami-style and 
made into leis , for display at Hiroshima 
Peace Park.
The purpose of the tour is to communi­
cate in human terms the bitter personal 
price being paid today by victims of 
nuclear technology and to sound an alarm 
against the possibility of nuclear war. A 
two-day symposium on the medical con­
sequences of nuclear war, held in Cambridge 
last month, concluded that there is no civil 
defense from nuclear war, recovery would 
be impossible and that world-wide fallout 
would contaminate much of the globe for 
generations, severely damaging all living 
things. The physicians and scientists con­
cluded that the very existence of enormous 
nuclear arsenals poses a threat to human 
life. (NY Times, 3/2/80)
Organizations co-operating with the 
tour: American Friends Service Committee, 
Central Conference of American Rabbis, 
Clergy & Laity Concerned, Fellowship of 
Reconcilation, Jewish Peace Fellowship, 
National Board of YWCA, Office of Peace
& Development Education — YMCA, Uni­
tarian Universalists, Pax Christi.
April 11-14 in Washington, D.C., 
National Citizens Hearings for Radiation 
Victims will climax the tour. For further 
information, contact Pittsburgh- MRS, 
1111 E. Carson Street, Pittsburgh, PA 
15203, or call 381-1400.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A coring, confi dont loi friand, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
542-0543. Free Pregnancy Tasting. 
Evening Hours Available
T.-----mrn II Ivre can t anurc to woste it*
U.S. Department of Energy
T.usch & LombTARNSPN IGRFGF
SOFT LENSES
$7050
B us pair
For a no-obligation 
appointment, call
281-1100
QUALITY. Our lenses arc the very same as those selling elsewhere for up to S.WO.
VALUE. Our low price includes: high-quality soft contact lenses, adjustments, training, orientation, 
carrying case, and as much eye care as needed for 90 days. Hard contact lenses available (a S.55 a pair. Price includes tints. Master Charge and Visa cards accepted. ^ ^PRECISION
¦ CONDUCT LENS ASSOCIATES INC.
“ Where You Get More Than Meets The Eye" 
Park Bldg . I-4th Hot*-, 355 5th Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15222

---------------------------------------------------

entertainmentMuddy Waters is Spring Carnival Concert Act
by Ted Smits
The A.B. Concerts Committee and 
Student Dorm Council will present this 
year’s Spring Carnival Concert, featuring 
blues great Muddy Waters with special 
guest Mike Cross, on Friday, April 18th at 
8 PM in the CMU Gym. Admission is $2 
for CMU students with a 50 cent discount 
for dorm residents.
Born sixty-five years ago in the cotton 
farming region of the Mississippi Delta, 
Muddy Waters has been performing for 
over 50 years. He derives his trademark 
blues guitar style from the bottleneck 
slide guitar work of older Delta musicians 
Robert Johnson and Eddie House. By imi-' 
tating and improving on the older music, 
Muddy was able to put out some of the 
freshest and most powerful blues music 
of the 1950’s. Along with B.B.King and his 
bass player Willie Dixon, Muddy Waters 
was the prime influence of a number of 
early rock groups, especially The Rolling 
Stones, The Beatles and Eric Clapton. He
April showers bring Muddy Waters.
has written a number of classic blues tunes, 
many of which have been covered by 
various rock groups. The Allman Brothers’ 
version of “Trouble No More” is one out­
standing example.
While he has been at the top of the
blues music field for years, it was not until 
the 1960’s that Muddy began to gain criti­
cal and commercial acclaim in other areas. 
He is currently playing in many rock 
venues and recently opened for Eric 
Clapton’s forty-seven city tour. This past 
summer, a tribute concert for Muddy was 
held in Radio City Music Hall as part of the
1979 Newport Jazz Festival. B.B. King, 
James Cotton and Johnny Winter all per­
formed along with Waters himself.
For the last six years Johnny Winter 
(who credits Waters as a prime influence) 
has been producing and playing on Muddy’s 
albums. Under Winter’s direction, Muddy 
has been turning towards a more rock style 
with emphasis on his booming blues vocals. 
On albums like Hard Again and I’m Ready, 
Waters has been redoing many of the 
classic songs that make up his current per­
formances. With an accompanying band 
that is touted as the best one he has ever 
had, his recent tour has been getting 
nothing but favorable reviews.Kije premieres Thursday night!
by Leslie Weinberg
Within the mundane monotony of 
Skibo, lies a magical land far removed from 
the chaotic campus of Carnegie-Mellon. It 
is called the land of Wuz. Many unhappy 
peasants and townpeople live in this land 
and they are bitter because the King is a 
real fink.
This fink of a king has a daughter nam­
ed Princess, a lovely young thing. Princess, 
however, is unhappy for her father has 
ruled that she should marry one of the elgi- 
ble young bachelors in the Kingdom. She 
feels that not one of them is worthy of her 
hand because they are all sycophants who 
lack princely, noble attributes. The King, 
quite distraught over his daughter’s reluc­
tance, calls on the help of the Wizard to 
conjure up a scheme to test the valor of 
each suitor. The Wizard’s solution is in the 
form of a minstrel, Kije (pronounced Kee- 
jee), who is created with a little amusement 
and magic.
And so is Scotch and Soda’s brand new 
musical comedy, Kije* written, composed, 
produced, and acted by Carnegie-Mellon 
students. Scott McGregor, a GSIA student, 
is finally getting the satisfaction of seeing 
his creation come to life for the first time 
on April 10 at 8:00 PM.
There is a different student director for 
each major facet of the Kije production 
acting, music and dance. Matt Sweigart, a
The directors and crew of Kije. Opening night is 
Tickets for April 11,12, 17-19 are $2.50 at Skibo
senior creative writing major is the show’s 
dramatic and head director, greatly respon­
sible for the Kije\ unity and discipline. 
Gretchen Miller, a freshman piano 
major, is the show’s musical director, and 
has assembled an 18 piece orchestra to per­
form Darrel Turner’s vibrant score. Turner, 
a freshman composition major, was helped 
by his twin brother David, and Kije’s lyrics 
were produced by Art Beiamin. The third 
director is freshman Leslie Weinberg, the 
choreographer for Kije’s lively dancing.
Mark Simens and Chris Garrity play the 
lead characters of Kije and Princess. Chris
April 10 at 8:00 PM with a reduced price ot $2.
Desk.
Gebhart is the King and Paul Allesandro is 
the ingenious wizard. Other characters 
include a court drunk and the wizard’s 
wildly lude wife, as well as a merry assort­
ment of suitors and ladies-in-waiting.
Josh Bloom is the assistant director and 
the sets are by Bennit Fidow and Rusty 
Grady.
Performances are in Skibo Ballroom, 
April 10-12 and Spring Carnival Weekend, 
April 17-19. Curtain time is 8:00 PM. Tic­
kets are $2 on opening night and $2.50 for 
all other shows. See Kije (See Kee-jee)!
Opening act Mike Cross (provided by 
A.B. Coffeehouse) is a singer and violinist 
who has four albums out. He has a solid 
cult following and his current nationwide 
tour should provide him with much more 
exposure. Tickets are $3 for the general 
public. General Admission tickets are on 
sale now at the Skibo Info Desk and Pitt, 
Duquense, and Heads Together box offic00
This Friday, April 11, between 3 and 
6, Charlie’s Show on WRCT will feature 
Muddy Waters’ latest album.3 Dramats 3
On Saturday night, April 12,at 9:30 PM, 
A.B. Coffeehouse will present CMU Drama 
majors Robbin Slade, Maxine Lapidussand 
Alan Harp in a program of original musical 
entertainment.
This unique triumvirate of a man and 
two women will offer their own original 
arrangements of songs from a wide variety 
of genres and an abundance of entirely ori­
ginal comedy material. While this is the 
first collaboration for these three perform­
ers, except for last semester’s Coffeehouse 
appearance by Slade and Lapiduss, this 
type of live, cabaret style performing is 
by no means a first for any of them.
New York’s Robbin Slade has appeared 
at the popular Catch a Rising Star and at­
tended the renowned Neighborhood Play­
house for seven years. Alan Harp has 
worked at many venues in his hometown 
of Buffalo, including the Studio Arena, and 
Pittsburgh’s own Maxine Lapiduss has been 
a featured performer in establishments 
all over Pennsylvania, including several 
appearances at Oakland’s Portfolio Night­
club.
For these performers, the Coffeehouse 
provides a rare opportunity to break out 
of the rigid structure of their drama 
discipline and to return to the pure, ex­
perimental kind of entertainment that they 
are most accustomed to.
For CMU audiences, this Coffeehouse 
provides a chance to see a unique ensemble 
effort. While the three will spend much of 
their ninety minute stint on stage to­
gether, there will also be frequent duo per­
formances as well as opportunities for all 
three to solo.
Anything can happen Saturday night in 
the Wherret Room: These performers 
stress the unexpected, “experimental” 
nature of this type of entertainment. Come 
Saturday night at 9:30 to Skibo and see 
what does happen, and no tomatoes, please.
Art review: Forbes Street features an exceptional show
by Alex Czajkowski
It’s so easy to be medicore in art at an 
‘amateur” stage and get away with it; the 
artist can always say “Well, you just don’t 
understand it...” and try to put the blame 
on the observer instead of where it belongs,* 
in his failure to communicate. Therefore, 
when a show comes to the Forbes Street 
Gallery and is really exciting and moving, 
it s an occasion to remember. The Gallery 
has had a couple of truly outstanding 
shows this semester, of which last week’s 
was one, but there were also a few that 
bordered on mediocrity. Of course, those 
¡ust make shows like Cooper, McNaugher 
and Melfe’s so much more appreciated.
Thte three artist each have their own 
llea of expertise: Melfe in abstract paini­
ng, Cooper in illustrating, and McNaugher 
ln photography and weaving, but each 
Jrtist also dabbled successfully in other 
)verlapping areas as well.
Sheilia Melfe, for example, is an excel- 
ent abstract artist but she also is an accom­
plished photographer with her own particu- 
ar style. Hei photos, all black and white, 
re portraits in that they all (except
two) were of people. Unlike portraiture, 
however, which emphasizes the individual 
being photographed, Melfe made each 
model a part of their immediate surround­
ings. One of the best was “Me,” a self- 
portrait in which she puts herself into a 
black background. The effect takes a bit of 
looking to discern, but once perceived, it 
is well enjoyed. The two exceptions were 
“classic” wharf and water type shots, 
which were not overly exciting.
Giving an impression of “light” (oppo­
site of “dark”, not “heavy”) is difficult to 
do in any medium, let alone in oils. Melfe’s 
best piece, however, and one of the show’s 
best, was an untitled abstract in shades of 
pastel colors, with coloring that makes a 
glow seem to emanate from the canvas, like 
Goya’s lanterns. Her other, very 
expressionistic, abstracts were good, but 
couldn’t compare to the abstract with soft 
glowing colors contrasting against hard 
dark lines.
Also working with oils, as well as egg 
tempera, pen and ink, pencil and clay, was 
Laura Cooper. Cooper’s fascination lies 
with the moon, which she anthropomor­
phizes in piece after piece. The develop­
ment of her best pieces can be seen as she 
experiments with moons, landscapes, 
pyramids, shapes and figures. “Portrait in 
Color,” a relatively flat oil painting, be­
comes “Floating on a Chair,” a semi- 
surrealistic figure floating in a sitting posi­
tion within a room, which leads to “Silk 
Dress Running,” and then to the culmin­
ating “Night Dreams”. Likewise, with her 
moons: originating in a pencil sketch, “For 
Natalie,” to an egg tempera collection of 
different moons, to “Moon with Pyramids”
continued on page 20CMU Opera: La Boheme
Carnegie-Mellon Universtiy’s Opera 
Theatre will conclude its 1979-1980 
season with Puccini’s La Boheme, sched­
uled for April 10 through April 13, at 8PM 
in the Alumni Concert Hall, College of 
Fine Arts, on the CMU campus.
Th Boheme depicts the lifestyle of 
four young artists living in the famed 
latin quarter of 19th century Paris. Focus­
ing on the tragic love story of Rodolfo and 
Mimi and the turbulant romance of Mar­
cello and Musetta, the opera is full of op­
portunity for both laughter and tears. 
Its famous arias as well as its exquisite 
ensembles are familiar to opera lover and 
novice alike.
Sung in Italian, the opera will be di-
rected by Leonard Treash, head of the 
opera program at Chautaqua and retired 
from the Eastman School of Music. The 
production will be conducted by Susan 
Melnick and James Wegg, CMU graduate 
students in conducting. The major roles 
are; Rodolfo, played by James Beal; Mimi, 
a double cast played by Roberta Cunning­
ham and Lynne Engstrom; Marcello, 
played by William Brown and Musetta 
by Julia McKinstry-Pfahl. Robert Ferrier 
and John Absolom round out the cast as 
Coline and Schaunard.
Tickets are available at the box office 
in the CMU Box Office in the lobby of 
the Fine Arts building on the CMU cam­
pus. Tickets are 75 cents for students.

---------------------------------------------------

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
LOCAI uni NATIONWIDE
ENGINEERING INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
EDP S. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION /
TECHNICAL ACCOUNTING
MARKETING PERSONNEL
SALES LAW
HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONS
EMPLOYER ASSUMES ALL FEES
SEND RESUME
WITH LOCA : It -N(•'! I I «I Nl.t. AND SALARY REQUIREMENTS TO:
GILBERT LANE PERSONNEL SERVICE
SUITE 1240
PITTSBURGH. PA 15222PARK BUILDING
33b rirrn Camegm
Theater review: CMU Professor's play on Iron clad bill
Theater review: Made by Two
Page 16 - TARTAN- April 8f 1980-----------------------------------------------------------
By Michelle Weinberg
Theater Express has returned from its 
New York premiere of Made By Two, a lyr­
ical opera by Gertrude Stein which will run 
at Theatre Express on Baum Boulevard 
through April 20.
Made By Two came into being as the 
charming chronicle oT Stein’s lesbian rela­
tionship with Alice Toklas. The action of 
the play traverses the period of decades in 
which this couples flirtation, courtship, and 
eventual “wedlock” occur. Stein deals with 
the potentially shocking elements of the 
tale with all the coy charm that she can 
muster. In fact, this charm even gives way 
to a capricious Victorian naivete in which 
everything is euphemised or discreetly 
whitewashed. The two ladies remain at all 
times polite and reserved as they review the 
“questions concerning their relationship 
which was to last forty years”. In no way, 
shape, or form is the eroticism of their part­
nership allowed to get out of hand.
In this, Made By Two seems almost a 
quaint anachronism. Clearly the present day 
customs of love, sex, and romance bear lit­
tle resemblance to the picturesque allure 
of Stein’s and Toklas’. However, every 
highly decorated allusion to the unladylike 
is understood. Director William Turner uses 
several pictorial illustrations of a cow
(Stein’s euphemism for the female sexual organ) with such apparent innocence that 
it is quite delightfully comic.
And delight seems to have been Stein’s 
intent. Made By Two possesses a smart 
sense for the decorative and could verge 
upon the shallow if it were not rescued by 
Turner’s marvellously diverting staging and 
musical accompaniment.
The acting itself wants for some dramat­
ic depth. The elder Stein, played convinc­
ingly and elegantly by Eleanor Glockner, 
plus Claudia Zahn as her younger counter­
part, and Janet Reed as Alice evince a crys­
tal clear understanding of their roles. Their 
expressions and gestures were at times 
quite comic and always imaginative.
Perhaps the lack of depth is what Stein 
was after in creating this light, more pictor­
ial lyric opera. With her short, trill-like 
rhymes without reason and fragmented
by Bob Henry
The Iron Clad Agreement has two new 
productions out, and they’ll be at the Lion 
Walk Performing Arts Center on Craig St. 
every Friday and Saturday night in April at 
eight p.m.
One is My Dear Sisters, written by 
James L. Rosenberg, a professor in our dra­
ma department. It’s an hour piece about 
Sarah and Angelina Grimke,two abolition­
ist sisters who moved from South Carolina 
to Pennsylvania and fought to free the 
slaves.
The other is 57 by Two, a half hour en­
tertainment about the life of H J. Heinz (of 
pickle and catsup fame). Jack Rowley, Jr.,
a graduate student in the drama depart­
ment, wrote the melodies for the show’s 
songs.
57 by Two is a vaudeville burlesque us­
ing song, dance and pantomime to tell us 
about the life of perhaps the most influen­
tial figure in the food processing industry. 
K. Wilson Hutton and Mark Harlow are the 
performers, and overall they do a good job 
of getting us to laugh while informing us. 
It’s history made fun and funny, a quick 
glimpse at a man and a world.
The biggest problem may be that the 
writer, Chris Blaetz, has not completely 
captured~if he indeed intended to-the 
world of vaudeville, so the show doesn’t
quite hit the mark. The vaudevillian self­
parody is there, but it’s self-conscious self­
parody: A few stale jokes are there, but 
they aren’t the kind that really make you 
groan with delight. The show is more of an 
imitation of vaudeville than a faithful 
reproduction, but overall it’s close enough 
to prove entertaining, and it does an admir­
able job of telling us about Heinz .
My Dear Sisters is a much more serious 
play. Sarah Moore and Angelina Emily 
Grimke left the south to fight for abolition 
and women’s rights, and their struggle em­
bodies the struggle of a race and a sex. 
Professor Rosenberg has elected to tell the 
story primarily through the letters the two
women wrote, which at times makes the 
play fall into a void where the characters 
do not interact with each other: A recita­
tion of letters takes over and the play loses 
its spark, its human drive. When the dif­
ferent characters are in conflict though- 
when the abolitionist and women’s move­
ments are shown as the struggle of a group 
of individuals--the play has verve and vital­
ity.
Both shows are full of histiorical verac­
ity, which may in the end be the strength 
of the evening. One comes away having 
learned about different times and people; 
informed and enriched--and evenings like 
that in the theatre are rare.
thoughts and sentences, she evokes some of 
the ruminative ramblings of Erik Satie. The 
music of Turner’s composition is light, col­
orful, and includes bright, teasing snatches 
of the swing and jazz idiom. Turner man­
ipulates the vocal arrangements in a won- 
dferfully imaginative manner, making the 
singing expressive where the dialogue is not.
The vocal styles and arrangement pro­
vide the necessary change of mood to a 
generally static play. The play seems to at­
tempt a series of frozen moments in theat­
rical time, accentuated by the elements of 
sound, setting and lighting in a pictorial 
sense, as opposed to a typically forward- 
moving play.
The set and lighting contribute to the de­
light of the whole experience. Composed 
of white sheets to be manipulated and 
worn by the actors, the set is never static, 
but constantly provides visual intrigue as 
does the lighting. Creative license is indul­
ged in again and again to add still another 
dimension to the action on stage. In total, 
Turner’s efforts, as well as the work of ev­
eryone else in the company combine to de­
liver to Pittsburgh a truly unique theatrical 
experience.
Made By Two will be performed Thurs­
day through Sundays, April 3-20 at 8:30 
PM. For reservations and information call 
621-5454.
cDODEkOCSE®
^STuueNT..m-m
A&pum* 15-20
fOKB66 ST. GNLLBW
Juror:
N.Y. Conceptualist 
Dorothes Rockbourne
Submit work
(Limit 2 pieces)
to The Loge
4th Floor Fine Arts
Wed., April 9,9:30- 12 Noon
Must be ready to hang

---------------------------------------------------

AB Concerts, Coffeehouse,
& Student DorraCouncil 
presents:SITING C/RNII/L CONCERT dQ
featuring
funded try ijthv.ltf * Te<r

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
VOTE UMOC
UGLIEST MAN 
ON CAMPUS
APRIL 9,10,11 
lt:l VOTE 
STUFF THOSE BOXES
PROCEEDS GO TO 
MUSCULAR 
DYSTROPHY
Theater Review: Soho Repertory releases The Hostage
by Melody Mazzie
The year is 1958. The setting is a lod­
ging house in Dublin, Ireland. Around the 
bar of the inn sit the lodgers—a homo­
sexual navvy and his boyfriend “Princess 
Grace,” a pretty blonde prostitute who is 
preoccupied with entertaining a Russian 
sailor, a civil servant who never pays his 
rent, an older prostitute who is wearing a
bright yellow boa, and an innocent country 
girl who has grown up in a convent. Quite 
an assortment of characters, yet they form 
something of a family with the caretaker 
Pat and his consort Meg watching over 
them. This strange bunch appears to have 
A broadcast is made on the radio of 
they have any standards), but they do 
share two ideas—a hatred of Catholicism,
Film review: Simon stumbles
by Tennyson Bard well
When will it be admitted that every orig­
inal thematic notion, social insight and 
cute idea is not worthy of two hours of 
motion picture expression? That’s why 
there is such a thing as a short story. If 
there is some theme vitally needing longer 
exposure—as the creators of Simon 
apparently believed—then let that theme 
be kept subtle and refined while comic and 
dramatic qualities do the necessary work of 
entertaining. Attempted the other way 
around, with a persistent, hard-hitting 
theme and low key dramatic trimmings, 
films become witty but boring, as is seen 
in the new comedy Simon.
The cute idea here is that a philosophy 
teacher (Alan Arkin), while trying to ob­
tain any metaphysical experience that will 
get him through the day, is picked up by 
five immature geniuses who convince him 
that he’s from another planet. Their ob­
jective is to record the world’s reaction to 
such a discovery while alleviating their own 
boyish boredom.
Arkin’s performance can not be quibbled 
with. His acting angle is full of verve and 
stands as the only consolation in a film of 
constantly poor delivery. The writer-direct- 
or Marshall Brickman is most concerned 
with lightheartedly handling a heavy state­
ment. The result is a stylistic, but unattract­
ive piece of picture making. A few scenes 
are quite well written, funny and touching. 
However, while only being about three min­
utes long, they contain everything the 
movie wants to do and say: Everything else 
in the movie is merely a weaker rendition 
of these short scenes. So back to the short 
story argument.
Brickman, who has done extensive co­
writing with Woody Allen, quickly makes 
it known why Woody got the best of that 
partnership. His jokes in Simon are all simi­
lar and predictable, stemming from a single 
premise: We have developed into a nation 
that breeds not only “creatures of habit,” 
but creatures of idiotic habit! We take 
whatever is given us; television programs 
and commercials, elevator Muzak and 
opinions of politicians.
What is even more disturbing, is for a 
movie that bellows about the insidious lack 
of intellectual stimulation, to possess no 
qualms about spoonfeeding us third grade 
exposition sequence after sequence. If that 
is the only way left to reach the passively 
stricken masses, then it’s obviously too late. 
This type of blatant contradiction runs 
throughout the entire film.
What more can be said about a picture 
that loses a little something after the open­
ing credits. I’ll be looking for Marshall 
Brickman’s next brainstorm in the New 
Yorker. _______
and an animosity toward the British.
On the radio a boradcast is made of a 
young 18-year-old Irishman who is 
sentenced to death for killing a policeman. 
Everyone is mortified and broken-hearted 
for the boy. Later, a young 18-year-old 
Englishman named Leslie Williams is 
brought to the lodging house as a prisoner 
of a fanatic IRA officer. Williams is like­
wise sentenced to death, though he has 
committed no crime. He turns to the 
lodgers for help, only to be rejected by 
them all. Their sympathy cannot pene­
trate the barrier of nationality. Williams 
has thus become “the Hostage” of these 
people.
The Soho Repertory Company will 
be presenting Brendan Behan’s The Hostage, 
Thursday through Sundays through April
20. Behan wrote the play to include the 
audience, not just entertain them, by 
making his characters actually speak to 
the spectators. He even reminds 
the audience that they are seeing a play by 
allowing the characters to mention their
own names and to interject such lines as 
“This is a serious play” and “Act I isn’t 
even half over yet.” In this respect Behan 
is innovative, and the technique works.
Some of his techniques, however, do 
not work so well. The play is some three 
hours, long with two intermissions. There 
are no scene changes, and at times the 
action drags. Part of the reason for the 
unnecessary length of The Hostage is the 
continual interjection of songs by the cha­
racters. Since no one has an outstanding 
voice, and the intent is not a musical, the 
songs become tiring and time consuming.
John Roell is Pat, the caretaker of the 
house. He is perhaps the only character 
who really has a good Irish accent. 
Scott McWilliams gives a notable perfor­
mance as the hostage. Not only his acting, 
but even his singing is remarkably good.
The Soho Repertory Company is 
located at the corner of Fifth and Craft 
Avenues in Oakland. Curtain time is 8 PM, 
and tickets are $4 for adults, $2.75 for 
students. Call 6824038 for information.
PTB: Out go Stanley lights
by Bill Lazar
On Saturday night, April 12 at 8 PM, 
the Pat Travers Band, along with 38 Spe­
cial and DL Byron, will play the Stanley 
Theatre. Last February, when the Pat Tra­
vers Band last played the Stanley, they tore 
it up. This time, look out for Crash and 
Bum, the band’s latest album. Featur­
ing excellent numbers like “Snortin’ Whis­
key and Drinkin’ Cocaine” and the title 
cut, this band’s sixth album rocks out tot­
ally, featuring the twin lead work of Tra­
vers and Pat Thrall, a recent addition to the 
group.
If the concert lives up to the band’s 
previous album, the live Go For What You 
Know, nobody should be disappointed.
Featuring tunes like “(Boom Boom) Out 
Go the Lights” and other highlights of the 
live acts, it was'a real winner, and was the 
group’s first appearance on the bestseller 
charts.
38 Special, with their current hit 
“Rockin’ Into the Night” riding the charts, 
are real rockers in the Southern tradition. 
In fact Donny Van Zandt, the lead singer, 
is the younger brother of the late Ronny 
Van Zandt. DL Byron is making his first 
tour across America since the release of his 
first album, In This Day and Age. The 
album has been getting much airplay across 
the nation, including Pittsburgh. Look for­
ward to the live version of “Big Boys Don’t 
Cry.”______________________________
ICELANDER TO EUROPEBIG BIRD
ANDALOW EIRE
Roundtrip from 
New York 
to Luxembourg
Roundtrip 
from Chicago 
to Luxembourg
No restrictions
Confirmed reservations* free wine with dinner, cognac after* 
no restrictions on stays to I yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid 
from U.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and 
prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase 
tickets in the U.S.
nSec your travel agent or write Dept. #CN 
Icelandair P.O. Box 105,
West Hempstead, NY 11552.
Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the 
toll-free number in your area.
Please send me: D An Icelandair flight timetable.
CD Your European Vacations brochure.
Namc_
Address
City____
State________________1_______
! ICELANDAIR
Still your best value to Europe

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1980—TARTAN—Page 19
PBT concludes season with mixed programBallet review:
by Tim LeVan
The final performance of the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre brought the season to a rou­
sing close with two world premieres and a 
familiar ballet.
Celebration, the first world premiere 
a visually stimulating, well-choreographed, 
exciting ballet, was danced to Carl Orff’s 
“Veni Creatior Spiritus”.
Miguel Campaneria and Keith Martin’s 
duet (without music) was a simply beauti­
ful example of great talent working togeth­
er to a fantastic end. Their great energy, 
feeling for the ballet, depth of concentra­
tion, intuitive cooperation, and “felt” 
bodily responses made the performance 
very enjoyable. No music was needed when 
Mr. Campaneria and Mr. Martin partnered 
one another. It 'was a true wonder to see 
these two men compliment one another’s 
superb technique, with such great com­
bined results, Bravo!
The Orff work was quite capably sung 
by The Heinz Chapel Choir of the Univers­
ity of Pittsburgh, under the baton of Gro­
ver Wilkins.
The corps de ballet was very enjoyable
The American Dance Ensemble of Point 
Park College will present this season’s 
final offering, “Rod McKuen in the Dance, 
Part Two,” April 10 through 13 at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse in Oakland.
Last Spring, the American Dance 
Ensemble, under the artistic direction of 
Nicolas Petrov, presented a program of 
works choreographed to music by Rod 
McKuen. The program was very successful 
and was highly acclaimed by the national 
Dance Magazine. Petrov and McKuen 
will repeat some of the highlights from 
last season’s performance and also pre­
sent new works by McKuen composed
as well, and was danced with a well-choreo­
graphed symbolic representation of the 
text.
The familiar Icarus was danced to the 
taped music of Chin-lchi Matsuhita. All 
three dancers performed very well; Bruce 
Paul Michelson, Roberto Rodriquez and 
Laureen Rouse as Daedalus, Icarus and 
The Sun. The ballet was comfortable, 
familiar and danced with much energy 
and vivacity.
Portraits, the second world premiere, 
was danced to a set of Chopin’s “Etudes.” 
The sixteen Etudes were each danced as 
assorted solos, duets, or ensembles. Each 
was danced with excellent results-show- 
ing the great variance of dance styles, chor­
eography, and huge spectrum of emotional 
expression possible through the combina­
tion of music and dance.
The partnership of Miguel Campaneria 
and Patricia Davis danced with excellent 
technical prowess, heart-felt sincerity, and 
an overall show of ballet quality.
With the exception of some unmoti-- 
vated bored participation by certain danc­
ers, each Etude was unique and totally
especially for the American Dance En­
semble.
In a benefit for the American Dance 
Ensemble, Rod McKuen will give xme 
performance of his one-man concert, 
“Rod McKuen Live” on Sunday, April 13 
at 7:30 PM at the Carnegie Music Hall.
Performances of “Rod McKuen in the 
Dance, Part Two” are Thursday through 
Saturday evening at 8 PM and matinees 
Saturday and Sunday at 3 PM. Tickets 
range from $3 to $6 and are available 
at CMU Information Desk. Tickets for 
“Rod McKuen Live” are S10, S7, S5, S4 
and $3.00 and are also available at CMU.
pleasing.
Alan Kogosowski, a fantastically talent­
ed piano virtuso, performed the set of 
Etudes from memory with great 
challenging tempo, and amazing clarity. As 
if the Etudes were not enough of a chal­
lenge in themselves, he played with the 
dancers, adjusting slightly to accomodate 
their movements, gestures and choreogra­
phy.
The dancers and the audience were fully
by Tim LeVan
Donizetti’s VElisir d’Amore was per­
formed last month by the Pittsburgh Oper-
a, and was basically disappointing. The 
most disturbing aspect of the opera was the 
poor quality singing of all the cast except 
Adina (Judith Hadden) and perhaps 
Nemorina (Neil Shicoff).
Giannetta (Maureen Wimmer) sang with 
little pleasing quality and acted with little 
more ability than an unfortunate college 
freshmen. Her persistant directions to 
others on stage (outside her “character”) 
and general over-exageration was most an­
noying.
Belcore (Brent Ellis) sang and acted no 
more like a sargeant than any of the other 
soldiers. Doing little more than awkwardly 
standing around wondering what to do 
next, his character was, needless to say, 
poorly developed, and only skeletally 
present.
Delcamera (Spiro Malas) was truly a 
quack doctor! This “classic buffo” which 
has been heard at some of the near-top 
opera houses in the United States was 
surely “absent” at Heinz Hall. Neither his 
voice nor his acting was at all impressive. 
It is always a pity to witness a potentially 
.good role ruined by an insensitive perform­
er.
aware of Mr. Kogosowski’s amazing musi- 
cality, and heartily rewarded him. After 
repeated bows, the dancers stayed on stage, 
some sitting, others standing around the 
piano, while Mr. Kogosowski treated the 
audience to an encore of Chopin’s Polo­
naise in Ab Major, Op.53.
Following the encore, repeated bows 
followed and brought the Pittsburgh Bal­
let Theatre’s final performance to a mem­
orable end.
Nemorino (Neil Shicoff) showed a great 
potential for first-rate singing during the 
evening, although in uneven spurts. His 
“Una Furtiva Lagrima” was sung very 
musically. Mr. Shicoff will hopefully be
Adina (Judith Haddon) was undoubted­
ly the most pleasing character in the opera. 
Her lyrical, flawless voice brought great 
warmth to the opera. Ms. Haddon’s cha­
racter was well-developed, believable and 
totally enjoyable. Ms. Haddon’s years at 
The Juilliard School’s American Opera 
Center, as well as her already large reper­
toire of roles, proves her to be one of to­
morrow’s great sopranos. She is another 
singer who will hopefully return to Pitts­
burgh.
The opera orchestra was mostly sup­
portive and accurate. A few flaws existed 
in the chorus scenes, but Mr. Ferden’s 
conductorship was generally in control 
of the orchestra, chorus, and soloists. 
The lighting, costuming, make-up, set, etc., 
caused little excitement and basically left 
most of the audience’s attention to the 
music.
And yes, the Pittsburgh Opera does 
gratefully acknowledge William Simmons 
for providing Jenny the Donkey!
A Rod McKuen weekend
Opera review: poor showing
Announcing A New Adventure Course For
FRESHMEN
SURVIVAL TECHNIQUES
Starting Fall Term 1980 
Sign Up on April 9 or 10 — Gym 204 for COURSE 30-204 - 3 units 
see Major Harry Johnson or call 578-2196
Survival Techniques is an introductory course designed to prepare you to recognize survival 
situations, determine directions, cross obstacles, rappel, construct rope bridges, apply first 
aid measures, find food, trap game animals, survive in water and cold weather, understand 
basic woodcraft and construct shelters. A weekend outing is planned to apply survival 
techniques learned during the course.
Once A Term, Try Something Different
ARMY ROTC
Adventure?Add ItTo Your Schedule.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
Concert review: Pretender's concert aborted by police
The only one who seemed to be enjoy­
ing it was Chrissie Hyndes. Here were six 
big, beefy Pittsburgh police officers wan­
dering around the stage of the Decade 
club in Oakland (a dozen fellow officers 
waited outside), while a packed, drunken 
crowd of rock and roll fans were bom­
barding the officers with a deluge of 
obscenities, threats and an occasional 
beer bottle.
For the members of The Pretenders, 
it was a rock and roll fantasy come to 
life. After the first six songs of their 
set, local policemen appeared to shut down
the show because the bar was supposedly 
crowded above the fire regulations (A 
Decade employee indicated that this occur­
rence was part of a regular pattern of 
harrassment.). Lead singer Chrisse Hyndes 
had kept the bar spellbound during an 
excellent version of their hit “Brass and 
Pocket”, the band was ready to rip into 
a cover of the Kinks’ “Stop Your Sobbing” 
and suddenly the show was over. Even the 
drummers’ departing assurance that “We’ll 
be right back” was in vain. The Pretenders’ 
25 minute set did demonstrate the band’s 
talents though the music could be more
specifically directed: The band tries too 
many styles at once sometimes.
The show is centered around lead 
singer and guitarist Chrissie Hyndes who 
also writes most of the material. She does 
not fit the female rock star stereotype 
very well. Probably closer to Patti Smith
than to Ann Wilson, Hyndes is not very far 
from either. The band is interesting and 
the show, albeit short, was still solid enter­
tainment. The crowd probably felt ripped 
off but I think the band was inwardly 
thrilled by the cops. At least they have 
something to tell interviewers about.
McNaugher, Melfe & Cooper
Todd Rundgren and Utopia
This Friday evening, April 11, Dicesare- 
Engler productions presents Utopia, featur­
ing Todd Rundgren, Roger Powell, John 
Wilcox, and Kasim Sulton, at the Stanley 
Theatre. The group is touring in support of
their new release, Adventures in Utopia.
The show is promised to be built around 
newer material from the last two Utopia 
releases, and is to contain video segments 
highlighting each band members’ solo spot. 
In contrast to the simplicity of their New 
Year’s Eve show at the Cleveland Coliseum, 
Utopia is expected to use elaborate staging 
and futuristic risers with individual podiums 
for the three frontmen.
Todd Rundgren’s last solo album, the 
hit-laden Hermit Of Mink Hollow, will 
probably be ignored for this show, since 
the material doesn’t fit into the Utopia 
structure. But old Todd favorites, such as 
“Just One Victory” and “Couldn’t I Just 
Tell You,” which were performed at the 
Cleveland concert, will probably be heard 
in Friday night’s show. Tickets for Utopia 
can be purchased at the Stanley Theatre 
Box Office, all National Record Marts, and 
Kaufmann’s downtown.nappyEflSTER PHOTOS ARE THE ONES DEVELOPED AT aSflPHOTO.
Happy Easter. Family and friends make for Great Events.
It’s time to start making Easter eggs and baskets and planning that big dinner for all the relatives.
With so much to do,
it’s easy to forget to buy 
film and flash bulbs So 
stock up on film. Make 
an Easter date with 
ASAPHOTOfor fast 
mistake proof prints and 
you’ll get them back the 
same day, because we 
develope your pictures right in our store.
So remember.
Get Film.
Flashbulbs 
Projector lamps and same-day 
service at ASAPHCTO in Oakland 
in the Forbes Pavilion across from 
Parkvale Savings.
ftjurs, 7:30 to 6 pm, 3527 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland (Forbes Pavilion) Phona 681-1720
continued from page 15
and finally the great, mysterious “Misty 
Dreams,” a look at the Great Pyramids 
through a veil of clouds.
A butterfly and some strange looking 
flowers find their beginning in a penciled 
“Butterfly Dreams,” are transformed with 
pen and ink into “Bird Drawing” and back 
to butterfly on an excellent little gouache 
called “Butterfly.” Also in this style of 
gouache was an untitled head in the 
winds, with moon and clouds in the back­
ground; the effect was common but drama­
tic.
The rest of Cooper’s ceramics were 
good, but her true skill of hands was best 
exhibited by her “dried eggs”: they were 
fastidiously painted, and very delicate. 
Cooper is an almost surrealist, a fantasizer 
and captivating illustrator.
Then there’s always one artist whose 
work manages to stick in your mind a little 
longer than anyone else’s. Mindy 
McNaugher is a photographer of profes­
sional quality and a weaver of unbelievable 
skill and patience. Two tapestries were 
exhibited and they were doubtlessly the 
best to be shown this semester. Both were
A Philip Pelusi haircut for $5.00!! 
Register for haircutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop at our salon 
in Squirrel Hill or the Bank Center.
large and mainly black backgrounded with 
swirling and drifting greys, browns, whites 
and some red. Both were done in the 
Trapunto method of weaving, which in­
volves stuffing certain parts of the tapestry. 
This can look like hell (like all of the works 
of this style at the Associated Artists’ 
show), but McHaugher does it perfectly. 
These certainly are “best ot show pieces 
along with Melfe’s abstract.
Her photography is also unsurpassed to 
date. The lighting of all her photos, black 
and white, as well as color, make even a 
“common” picture new and exciting, such 
as the token hard-hatted worker, railroad 
worker, and a spectacular baby picture in 
which the baby’s, uh, unusual face is 
highlighted. This was the exact opposite 
of the tones and contrasts used by Melfe.
For fun, McNaugher did a series of 
colored pencil drawings, some of which 
come close to becoming surrealistic. If she 
ever chooses to go a little further with the 
waves of chocolate she has already made 
she would soon master another method of 
painting.
Obviously, this was a great show, but if 
you missed it, don’t worry. You’re bound 
to see some of McNaugher’s photos some­
where, as well as Melfe’s abstracts and 
Cooper’s illustrations. To have seen this 
show was to love it, and although it did 
have its low points, the sheer amount of 
work, and the quality of most of it, insures 
these three’s success.
«grab?...
®o bt or not to be 
involved with GOODYEAR AEROSPACE 
the 1 with the blimps...
Opportunities for you now 
to bt involved with:
* Digital Technology (Parallel 
Processors)
* Correlation Guidance Systems (Radar, Optical, Infrared)
* Flight Simulators
* Aircraft Wheels and Brakes
If you are about to bf endowed 
with an EE, ME, or ComSci degree
If you want to bp at the state-of- 
the-art with a leader in the 
aerospace industry
Your resume is to bf sent to:
E. L. Searle
Goodyear Aerospace Corporation 
Akron, Ohio 44315
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
M/F/H/V

---------------------------------------------------

jump against Case Reserve and Washington and Jefferson last Saturday.
The Compubookie recalls the Sweepstakes of the seventies
Tri-captains
by Dario Donatelli
The CMU trackmen, led by tri-captains 
Dario Donatelli, George Canepa, and Joe 
Goldcamp, rolled to a double dual meet 
victory last Saturday at Tech Field. The 
Tartans downed the Case Western Reserve 
Spartans, 86-59, and trounced Washing­
ton and Jefferson, 122-21.
Donatelli scored impressive victories in 
the mile and three mile runs with times of 
4:28.8 and 15:17 respectively. Greg Lentz 
and Jeff Klaiber both scored points in the 
half-mile run. Randy Anderson and Bernie 
Ivanshultz finished in the top three in mile 
run and Mark Knapp placed in the three 
mile run.
Canepa’s field men won four events 
with the tri-captain taking the triple jump 
with a distance of 41’5”. Vic Parrott’s 
jump of 20’5” was enough for the long
jump and Jeff Lynch and Dave Walch won
lead way to
the high jump and pole vault, respectively. 
Joe Wagner, Bob Conrad, Jim Steinke, Pete 
Hall, Bob Kromer, Bill Klause, Keith 
Jawarski, and John Wooldridge also scored 
team points in the field events.
Goldcamp took the 120 yard high hur­
dles with a time of 15.5 seconds and came 
back to grab second in the intermediate 
hurdles with a 583. His effort was compli­
mented by freshman Avi Orenstein who 
won the 100 yard dash, took second in the 
220 yard dash and anchored the quarter 
mile relay team that won with a time of 
44.8 seconds. CMU took both relays as 
Joe Giansante, Mike Beulah, Kevin Cureton 
joined Orenstein and Jay Loomis came a- 
way with the mile relay victory. Jaworski, 
Dave Gannis and Dave Delo also scored 
points in sprint events.
The Tartans will next be in action at the 
PAC Relays to be held Saturday at John
Note: The Compubookie is a little green 
gnome who lives under Panther Hollow 
bridge and who comes out once a year to 
make comments and predictions on the 
buggy races.
As the rumbling of buggies during 
the early spring freerolls awoke me from 
my sound vinter sleep, I found myself in 
a new decade of buggy racing. But, before 
we turn our attention to this year’s race, I 
thought it would be appropriate to review 
the results of Sweepstakes in the ‘70 s:
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1st
PIKA
PIKA
PKT
PKT
SN
PIKA
PIKA
PIKA
BETA
BETA
2nd
BETA
BETA
PIKA
PIKA
PKT
SN
BETA
SN
PIKA
PIKA
3rd
BETA
BETA
SN
BETA
BETA
BETA
ATO
CIA
CIA
PIKA
Tartan track victories
Junior tri-captain Joe Goldcamp shows the form that won the 120 yard high hurdle race last 
Saturday. His winning time was 15.5 seconds.
440 relay-1, CMU, Giansante, Beulah, 
Cureton, Orenstein, 44.8.2, CWRU,
46.1.3, W&J, 48.5.
Mile run-1, Donatelli,CMU, 4:28.8. 2, 
Barrett, CWRU, 4:38.8. 3, Ander­
son, CMU, 4:42.0.
120 High Hurdles-1, Goldcamp, CMU, 
155. 2, Gannis, CMU, 16.0. 3, 
Marko, W&J, 16.8.
440 dash-1, Marshall, CWRU, 51.3. 2, 
Krein, CMU, 54.6.3, Loomis,CMU, 
55.8.
100 dash-1, Orenstein, CMU, 10.0. 2, 
Giansante, CMU, 102. 3, Morrow, 
CWRU, 10.3.
880 run-1, Barrett, CWRU, 2:02.8. 2, 
Lentz, CMU^.035. 3, Klaiber, 
CMU, 2:10.7 
440 Intermediate Hurdles-1, Pyror, 
CWRU^73. 2, Goldcamp, CMU,
58.3.3,Gannis, CMU, 1:01.1.
220 dash-1, Marshall, CWRU, 23.0. 2, 
Orenstein, CMU, 232. 3, Wool- 
- drige, CMU, 23 5.
3 mile-1, Donatelli, CMU, 15:17. 2,
Maryhill-, CWRU, 15:38. 3, Zang- 
meister, CWRU, 15:42.
Mile relay-1, CMU Krein, Dobscha, 
Cureton, Loomis, 3:39.1.
Pole Vault-1, Lynch, CMU, 11-6. 2, 
Orts, CWRU, 11-0.3, Klouse, CMU, 
10-0.
High Jump-1, Walch, CMU, 6-2. 2, 
Wahaniski, CWRU, 6-2. 3, Kelby, 
CWRU, 5-8.
Shot Put-1, Palubinskas, CWRU, 51-10. 
2, Hall, CMU, 42-6. 3, Steinke, 
CMU, 41-0.
Javelin-1, Frangia, CWRU, 166-0. 2, 
Conrad, CMU, 156-0. 3, Wagner, 
CMU, 152-0.
Discus-1, Keenan, CWRU, 140-0. 2, 
Tupta, CWRU, 138-0. 3, Barbour, 
W&J, 136-6.
Long Jump- 1, Parrott, CMU, 20-5. 
2, Marko, W&J, 19-4H. 3, Menter, 
CWRU, 18-10&.
Triple Jump-1, Canepa, CMU, 41-5. 
2, Boye, CWRU, 404. 3, Parrott, 
CMU, 40-1%.
Just as in other sporting events, selected 
competitors are given the title of Athlete 
(0r Team) of the Decade. With that in 
rcind, a Buggy Team of the Decade must 
llso be named. Five points were awarded 
for each first place finish, three points for 
:ach second and one point for each third, 
ilere are the results:
Pi Kappa Alpha (left) and Beta Theta Pi, far and away the two most successful buggy teams of the seventies, will be among the teams to beat in this
year's sweepstakes.
1. Pi Kappa Alpha 38 points
2. Beta Theta Pi 24 points
3. Phi Kappa Theta 13 points
4. Sigma Nu 12 points
5. CIA 2 points
6. Alpha Tau Omega 1 point
Pi Kappa Alpha has undoubtedly estab­
lished itself as the Team of the Decade. 
Who will it be in the eighties? This year’s 
winner will have a leg up on the competi­
tion.
NEXT WEEK:
Predictions for Sweepstakes ‘80

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
Duquesne stars to appear at Starr Fund Sports Nite
Carnegie-Mellon football coach Chuck 
Klausing has announced that Doug Arnold 
and Bruce Atkins will represent Duquesne 
University at the City of Champions Sports 
Nite. The Sports Nite will be held Sunday, 
April 20 at 7 PM at the Skibo Gym to 
benefit the Jimmy Starr Memorial Scholar­
ship Fund.
Doug Arnold, a 6’8” sophomore for­
ward from Norwin High School, was the 
Duke’s second leading scorer last season 
averaging 15.3 points per game. He was 
also second on the team in rebounding 
with 6.9 boards a game.
by Tom Yogan
The CMU club baseball team has had a 
case of the “rainy-day blues.” Three sche­
duled doubleheaders with Penn State- 
New Kensington, Duquesne, and Point 
Park were washed out last week. The team 
has not yet been able to practice at their 
home field, Mellon Park, due to the in­
clement weather.
CARNEGIE 
CARE UNIT 
MEETING
DON'T MISS THIS 
IMPORTANT MEETING
AGENDA
1) Election of new officers
2) Reports
3) Discussion with seniors: Hear 
about their personal experiences 
with medical school admissions
ON MONDAY APRIL 14 
7:00 P.M. 
ROOM 12 SKIBO
REFRESHMENTS
EVERYONE WELCOME
Bruce Atkins is a 6’7”~ sophomore 
forward from Wilkinsburg High School. 
He was the Dukes’ top rebounder for the 
second year in a row last year averaging • 
9.3 a contest and was third on the squad in 
scoring average.
Admission to the Sports Nite is five 
dollars and all refreshments are included. 
The parents of the players on the football 
team have gotten area merchants to donate
the refreshments and the Iron City Brew­
ery has made a sizable contribution.
Tickets are available from members 
of the CMU football team, at participat­
ing Stop and Go stores and at the CMU 
football office.
Anyone wanting more information can 
call Coach Klausing in the Athletic Depart­
ment at 578-2216.
Strong start for CMU golfers
Duquesne's Doug Atkins (left) and Bruce Atkins will be two of the Pittsburgh sports personalities 
on hand for the City of Champions Sports Nite starting at 7:00 PM on April 20.
Baseball club awaiting the sun
by Dave Radack
The Carnegie-Mellon golf team got their 
season off to an impressive start last 
Saturday as they finish second in a field 
of five President’s Athletic Conference 
teams in their match at Garretsville, Ohio. 
The Tartans came away with victories over 
Hiram, Case Western Reserve and Bethany 
and finished only seven shots behind 
Allegheny, the nation’s third ranked Divi­
sion III team of a year ago.
Although the conditions at Sugarbush 
Golf Club were windy, wet and cold, they 
turned in solid, consistent performances 
and have made themselves contenders early 
for the PAC crown.
Senior Scott Mourier turned in the best 
Tartan round of the day, the second best 
in the tournament, with a round of 81. 
Tom Mortimer, Dave Radack, Tom Sheri­
dan and Don Behnke also turned in fine 
rounds.
The Tartans next action will be Friday 
at their home course, Longvue Country 
Club, against Westminster.
A busy weekend is slated as the Tartans 
travel to Trees Field for a doubleheader 
against Pitt on Friday at noon. The Pan­
thers gained an edge since they are return­
ing from a trip to Florida. Sunday the Tar­
tans travel to Chartiers Field to face Point 
Park. The Pioneers, perenniel district 
powerhouse, will be a tough test for the 
Tartans. The twin-bill gets underway at 
1 PM.
TARTAN NEWS 
STAFF MEETING
Mondays at 8:30 PM 
Room 50, Skibo
$ architects SCIENTISTS 
RESEARCHERS urban planners $ 
$ writers DESIGNERS byJeyJanA 
managers eng»neersC0MTR°LLER
$ ANALYST^ $$ * PROGRAMMERS $$
job hunting?
c-rau bookstore has manuals 
to help you find the job 
you’ve always wanted

---------------------------------------------------

Increase your options
PITTSBURGH AREA OFFICER TRAINING PROGRAM (ARMY ROTC)
LAST YEAR
Duquesne Student, Education Major, Male
Pitt Student, History Major, Male
Duquesne Student, Journalism Major, Female 
CMU Student, Electrical Engineering Major, Male
Duquesne Student/Pharmacy Major, Male
Pitt Student, Economics Major, Male
Pitt Student, Physical Therapy Major, Female
CMU Student, Nuclear Engineering, Male
THIS YEAR
2nd Lieutenant, Infantry, Honolulu, Hawaii 
$13,827 per year
2nd Lieutenant, Armored Cavalry, Scwaback,
West Germany, $13,827 per year
2nd Lieutenant, Military Intelligence, Ft. Huachuca, 
Arizona $13,827 per year
2nd Lieutenant, Signal Corps, Special Forces Group, 
BAD Toelz, Bavaria, West Germany $13,827 per year
2nd Lieutenant, NÌedical Service Corps, Ft. Carson 
Colorado $13,827 per year
2nd Lieutenant, Infantry, Berlin Brigade,
Allied Zone Berlin, SI3,827 per year
2nd Lieutenant, Medical Service Corps, Army Reserve 
(Part-time) $1,900 per year
2nd Lieutenant, Corps of Engineers, Army Reserve 
(Part-time) $1,900 per year
CALL:
Pitt
Carlow ............................. CPT Knightly 624-6197
CMU, CCAC
Chatham ............................. CPT Sparks 578-2204
Duquesne 
Robert Morris 
LaRoche
Point Park ...........................CPT Bradley 434-6614
TRY OUR 
SUMMER PROGRAMS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24 - TARTAN- April 8, 1980
A sure sign of spring at CMU: Intramural softball
Intramural sports have made the transi­
tion from winter to spring very well, 
thank you. Here are the latest announce­
ments.
Softball—1. Schedules are out for all 
four leagues and can be picked up in the 
intramural office.
2. Do not call the Intramural or 
Athletic Department regarding the weather 
and field conditions. Report to the field 
at the scheduled time.
3. Women only—please note the revised 
schedule for the women’s league.
4. Please note winning team on score 
sheet along with the final score.
5. We have 87 softball teams this year.
6. Softball equipment can be checked 
out with Mike Pochan on the IM field.
The commissioners for softball are: 
Majors—Mike Pochan, 683-0372; Inter­
mediate—Dave Hofmeister, 578-4007;
Minors—Wes Seeley, 5784004; Women’s— 
Mariano DeFilippo, 5784002.
Team Badminton—Please get all matches 
played Tuesday and Thursday 4:30 to 6:00 
PM in the main gym.
Fencing—Men’s and Women’s foil will 
be held on Tuesday, April 22 at 5:00 PM. 
The team event will be held April 24 at 
5:00 PM. Entries are due April 18. The 
commissioner is Coach Jane Fisk.
Foul Shooting- The campus champion 
is GSIA,^AE is the runner-up.
Individual Leaders
Bridge—We need a commissioner.
Co-Rec Table Tennis—This is the last 
call for Co-Rec Table Tennis.
Track—Track needs a commissioner. 
The meet is set for Thursday, April 24 
at 4:30 on the track. Here is the list of 
events:
1. 880 yard relay
2. 100 yard dash
3. 440 yard run
4. 880 yard run
5. mile run
6. 120 yard low hurdles
7. 2 mile run
1. Grossman
2. Tackett
3. Keller
4. Dudas
GSIA81/1008. shot put
GSIA80/1009. long jump
GSIA76/10010. high jump
Beta74/100This is the man behind it all: Intramural Director 
Earl J. Birdy.63 swimmers take part in record shattering IM meet
Beta and Donner Plus finished with 
identical scores of 43 to share the all cam­
pus title at this year’s intramural swim 
meet. The meet turned out to be a record 
breaking event and was the first time that 
there were separate events for women. The 
total number of competitors, 63, was a 
record and new marks were set in five of 
the nine men’s events. Insomuch as this 
was the first year for women’s competition, 
all winning times set meet records.
The individual high point winner was 
Yvonne Chi of Donner Plus who won the 
women’s fifty and hundred yard freestyle 
and the all-campus 400 yard freestyle relay. 
Jim Borden and Wilson Boyce each won 
two events.
INTRAMURAL BOARD MEETING 
THURSDAY APRIL 10, 12:30 PM V.
ROOM 104, GYM
EVENT
200 YD Medley Relay
50 YD Freestyle
100 YD Individual Medley
50 YD Butterfly
100 YD Freestyle
50 YD'Backstroke
50 YD Breastroke
200 YD Freestyle
200 YD Freestyle Relay
MEN’S CHAMPION
Beta (Anderson, Matthew, Olson, Ottenberg) 1:58.8 
Wiley Kidd (SAE) 27 5 ’
Wilson Boyce (Donner Plus) 1:04.8
Jim Borden (unattached) 25.2
Matt Ottenberg (Beta) 56.7
Wilson Boyce (Donner Plus) 33.5
Mike Merritt (Donner Plus) 33 5
Jim Borden (unattached) 1:58.0
Donner Plus (Beevel, Chi, McLure, Seeman) 1:53.3
WOMEN’S CHAMPION
Women’s (Dennis, Roach, Ilag, Dziak) 2:23.6 
Yvonne Chi (Donner Plus) 30.2 
Mary Beth Roach (Women’s) 1:12.6 
no entries
Yvonne Chi (Donner Plus) 1:08.0
Val Weemer (Our Class) 36.8
Dee Dee Dennis (Women’s) 36.8
Kim Dziak (Women’s) 2:31.7
Women’s (Ilag, Roach, Dennis, Dziak) 2:07.7
Macks sink Beta to take water hoop crown
The Macks—the most successful inde­
pendent intramural organization in the last 
four years—added the water basketball 
championship to its list of titles last Thurs­
day with an 11-7 victory over Beta. The 
win gave the Macks the best-of-three series, 
two games to one.
The victory was their second in a row 
in the series. After falling 6-5 in the first 
game, the Macks came back to win the last 
two by scores of 9-6 and 11-7.
The Macks attack was led by Scott 
“Huey” Mourier who scored four points. 
Mike Gurskey and John Lewis each had
three points and Joe Belechak chipped in 
one. Dave Hofmeister held down the fort 
on defense but, in the end, it was the 
leadership and inspiration of coach Gary 
Petrosky that was the deciding factor. 
He overcame some shooting difficulties 
early in the series to lead the Macks to the 
win.
WWWrrrrraw w
NATIONAL SOCIETY OF BLACK ENGINEERS
PRESENTS
Technology: Options and Outlooks for the 80's
THURSDAY, APRIL 10—GSIA AUDITORIUM 7pm
Law and Engineering with Pittsburgh Attorney Dr. Lawrence Moncrief, 
Assistant Counsel H. K. Porter Company, Inc. 
Business, Marketing, and Management with Dupre Simons, Procurement 
Manager Westinghouse Water Reactor Division of Nuclear Energy
SUNDAY, APRIL 13 — GSIA AUDITORIUM 8pm
Biomedical Engineering with Dr. Edward Cussler, Chairman Biomedical 
Engineering and Chemical Engineering Professor Carnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity 
Mainstream Engineering with John Moore, Civil Engineer Gulf Oil Re­
search and Development Corporation and Mel Robinson, Industrial Engineer 
and Project Manager Calgon Corporation
lAftftftftftftftftftftftAftAAAAftftftftftftl

---------------------------------------------------

April B, 1980—TARTAN—Page 25
A PFE program in two acts fcon't)
continued from page 8
Domaingue, the PIFFIEs were putting pressure on Foster 
to find out exactly what Kerr was doing in the program in 
the first place. And he told itne that he had heard from 
more than one source that Lynd was sick and wouldn’t 
be able to attend, so he had left early because he didn’t 
want to go to Falling Water and had other things to do.
Sweetie: Hmmm. Well, what are you going to do to clinch 
the Pulitzer?
Stuart: Domaingue said that I should contact others to get 
other opinions, because he really doesn’t like Kerr. So 
that’s what I was doing before you disturbed me. 
Sweetie: (laughs) OK, get back to work then. Just get it in 
before deadline, whatever it is. (Exits)
Stuart: Damned production people and dealines. Arggh. 
Foster’s not in town, and he’s really whom I’ve got to talk 
to. HMMM. Well if the Man isn’t there, what’s the next 
best thing? (Stuart begins dialing.) His secretary. Oh, 
Schlisserman, you’re just brilliant.
(Alice Ohrman appears in a spot stage left)
Alice: Hello.
Stuart: Hi there. I’m Stuart Schlisserman, from the TAR­
TAN. I’m trying to find out about the PIFFIE response to 
Lynd’s lecture last Tuesday. Perhaps you can help me.
Alice: (suspiciously) What do you want to know?
Stuart: Well, for one thing, why do you think only 2 out 
of the 44 people in the program attended Lynd’s talk?
Alice: The execs had planned their trip to Falling Water, 
cause it was the end of their program and all. Besides, none 
of them liked Kerr’s lectures anyway. These people are 
Presidents of big companies — they can do what they 
please, they don’t have to answer to Kerr, Foster, any­
body.
Stuart: Hmmm. Well, do you think that another reason
might be some animosity between Kerr and Foster?
Alice: You should get your facts straight, buddy.
Stuart: That’s why I called, honey.
Alice: There’s no animosity between Kerr and Foster,
and you shouldn’t try and make any. This is none of the 
TARTAN’s business, and if you write any of this, you’ll 
get in trouble.
Stuart: I have every intention of writing this.
Alice: You had better call Kaplan and Cyert then. Good­
bye. (click, spot out)
Stuart: That was fun! MacKenny Phee should be here, this 
is right up his alley. Now who to call? Let’s give a PIFFIE 
another chance, maybe one will be home.
(spot up on Brian Taylor) \
Brian: Hello.
Stuart: Hello, this is Stuart Schlisserman from the TARTAN. 
Ed Domaingue told me that you were the person who ar- 
ranged the PIFFIE trip to Falling Water._________________
Brian: That’s right. What about it? Why do you want to 
know?
Stuart: Well, I’m trying to figure out why only 2 out of 
44 PIFFIEs were at Staughton Lynd’s talk on April 1. Did 
you think he was sick?
Brian: No, I hadn’t heard anything about him being ill. 
But we went to Falling Water simply because it was the end 
of the 9-week session. A lot of the wives were coming to 
Pittsburgh, and they amply wanted to have an outing. 
It just so happened that Falling Water would open up on 
April 1, and it was immaterial whether Lynd was talking or 
not. The trip was set up March 25.
Stuart: Oh, yeah, that’s what I hear.
Brian: Anyway, it’s Foster who reschedules the functions, 
and he elected to re-arrange the morning’s activities. When 
the weekly agenda came out on Monday, March 31, Lynd’s 
name wasn’t there.
Stuart: Hmm. Gee. Well. Did you have a nice time at
Falling Water?
Brian: Yes, it was nice. Anything else you want to know? 
Stuart: No, I think that’ll be fine. Thanks a lot, you’ve 
been a lot of help. Bye.
Brian: Good bye. (spot out)
Stuart: Gosh, I’m on a real streak. Let’s go for the big one! 
(spot up on Staughton Lynd)
Lynd: Hello.
Stuart: Hello, Dr. Lynd. My name is Stuart Schlisserman, 
and I work for the TARTAN, which is the student news­
paper at Carnegie-Mellon University.
Lynd: Oh, yes. Lovely paper.
Stuart: We like it. What I’m calling about is the, well, let’s 
call them circumstances in which you gave your talk last 
Tuesday.
Lynd: Oh?
Stuart: Yes. Did you know that several people had been 
told that you were sick, and that the lecture had been can­
celled?
Lynd: No, I didn’t. I was not at all ill: I had been scheduled 
to speak at an earlier date, but Professor Kerr said that it 
would be better on April 1. But you know, I did hear some­
thing about a trip to Falling Water.
Stuart: Yes, that’s where most of the executives you were 
supposed to be speaking to were when you gave your talk. 
Lynd: I did have the impression that something had deli­
berately been scheduled.
Stuart : Dr. Lynd, do you think that this happened because 
you are a socialist and an activist lawyer?
Lynd: Perhaps.
Stuart: Thank you very muchr Dr. Lynd. You’ve been
very helpful.
Lynd: Sure. Goodbye.
Stuart: Bye. (hangs up) Maybe Alice is right, maybe I
should call the Dean. Well, why not? (spot out on Lynd) 
(spot up on Dean Kaplan)
Kaplan: Hello.
Stuart: Hi, Dean Kaplan. This is Stuart Schlisserman from 
the TARTAN. I’m calling about the Lynd talk last week. 
Kaplan: Oh. What about it?
Stuart: Well, why didn’t many of the execs go to the talk? 
Kaplan: Because they went to Falling Water.
Stuart: Very Good! Were you at all involved with the plan­
ning of this alternate activity?
Kaplan: Nope. The University had nothing to do with it. 
Lynd is an important person, and there wasn’t any boycott. 
It was the individual judgement of the people on the pro­
gram.
Stuart: OK. Thanks. You and Dr. Foster’s secretary have 
been very helpful.
Kaplan: Dr. Foster’s secretary?
Stuart: Bye!
(spot out on cordial Dean)
Stuart: One more PIFFIE. My fingers are getting tired.
(spot up on Terrie Barreiro)
Stuart: Hello, Ms. Barreiro?
Barreiro: Yes?
Stuart: I’m calling for your reaction to the circumstances 
surronding the Lynd talk last Tuesday.
Barreiro: Oh, that. That reminded me of a Comedy of
Errors. The spouses had come down that week, and the 
execs decided to cut out so they could do something they 
couldn’t do at night. That’s how Falling Water came about. 
Over 30 people went on the trip. Many after hearing that 
Lynd was cancelled and not seeing his name on the agenda, 
decided to leave early.
StuartT You were there, weren’t you?
Barreiro: Yes, I had spoken to Tom Kerr so I knew he
would be there. The diplomacy of this thing was not han­
dled well at all.
Stuart: Thank you very much, Ms. Barreiro.
Barreiro: My pleasure. Bye.
(light out on Barreiro)
Stuart: Well, well. Kerr I can’t talk to till Monday. Dr.
Foster is not available till who knows when. But the facts 
are these:
—Lynd talked on Tuesday, and was never ill.
—Dr. Foster believed Lynd was an activist, and another 
activity for the time of the talk had been scheduled. 
Lynd was also out of the agenda issued on Monday. 
—Only 2 out of the 44 PIFFIEs went to Lynd’s talk. 
—And Alice says we’re going to be in big trouble if we 
write any of this.
Time for intermission. Act II will be in a few minutes or the 
next issue, whichever comes first.
(blackout, curtain)
Attention Graduating CE Students
The Department of Transportation is seeking graduates 
who can, after the completion of a comprehensive 9-12 
month training program, move into progressively respon­
sible positions. If selected for our training program you will 
become acquainted with many facets of civil engineering 
including: Highway Maintenance and Construction, Bridge 
and Highway Design, Mass Transportation, Transportation 
Planning and Environmental Areas. You will work in an 
On-the-Job Training Program under the guidance of 
professional engineers on problem solving situations. We 
offer competitive salaries, liberal benefits, plus the op­
portunity for rapid advancement into management 
positions. We will be on campus April 11, 1980.
If you are interested, sign up for an interview at your 
Placement Office.
v Equal Opportunity Employ«^ M/F
ENERGY.
We can't afford
it.
F
ATTENTION ALL CONTACT LENS 
WEARERS!!
Hard and Soft Contact Lens Service:
1. INSPECTION
2. POLISH
3. ULTRASONIC CLEANING
4. TRAVEL PACK OF SOLUTION
FOR CMU STUDENTS 
WITH I.D. 
COMPLETE - $10
t«>r !>**>• .ivfnu«*
pitwburijh, tvnnsylvdnw:w:.<4ÎL* t»21 494«
Volumeu8lV0 ,
QCK-
HKZZ3UCDUCDOCDtKZ
Information about Summer Housing is 
now available in the Housing Office.
session areApplications for the fir 
due prior to April 21,
$25.00 prepayment. <
$10.00 will be charged after the 
deadline.
980 with a 
late fee of

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26 - TARTAN- April 8, 19801
National Society of Black Engineers 'gets it all together'
by Aaron J. Johnson
The National Society of Black Engineers 
held its Sixth Annual Conference at Stan­
ford University from March 29th to April 
1st. This Year’s National Conference was 
the largest ever for the NSBE, and was a 
joint effort of the chapters at Stanford 
University, San Jose State University, the 
University of California at Davis, and the 
University of California at Palo Alto. The 
Carnegie-Mellon chapter was representen 
by Aaron Johnson, President; Eric Cheeck, 
Vice-President; and Kevin Kelly, Finance 
Chairperson.
NSBE is an undergraduate-based orga­
nization founded in 1975 at Purdue Uni­
versity. The Purdue Society of Black En­
gineers hosted a Conference of similar orga­
nizations from around the United States 
and Canada to increase the effectiveness 
of the individual entities through collec­
tive effort. As a result, NSBE now 
has 69 chartered chapters and over 1600
members both at charted and affiliated 
institutions. (CMU received its charter this 
year.)
Last year, the Conference was held in 
Philadelphia with the theme, “Building For 
The Future.” This year’s theme was 
“Getting It All Together.” Conference 
attendees participated in workshops, panel 
discussions, technical presentations, 
debates, and national and regional 
meetings. The list of workshops and pre­
sentations included; Graduate School Op­
portunities, Climbing the Corporate 
Ladder, Women Engineering, How to get 
Published, Entrepreneurs, Technology for 
the Black Community, Developing Campus 
Minority Retention Programs, A South 
African debate, and State-of-the-art pre­
sentations in many engineering disciplines.
The corporate sector was well-repre- 
sented at the National Job Fair, in techni­
cal presentations and workshops, and 
through formal company tours and
informal mingling. There was also provision 
made for participation by high school 
students from the San Francisco-Oakland- 
Palo Alto area. The Annual Awards 
Banquet where chapters, individuals, and 
corporate representatives were cited for 
their contributions and service and the 
National Job Fair were held on Sunday.
Most Conference business took place 
on Monday. The day was packed with 
tours, regional caucuses, General Assem­
blies, workshops, presentations, films, 
debates, and national and regional elec­
tions. The evening concluded with a three- 
hour session with activist Dick Gregory’.
The conference wrapped up with the 
seating of the new Executive Board consist­
ing of National Officers, Regional Chair­
persons, and National Committee Chair­
persons. The new National officers are 
Carolyn Cooper of Pratt Institute, Chair­
person, Burton Kieth, Vice-Chairperson, 
Gregory Sidney, Treasurer, and Lorraine
Russell, Secretary. Carnegie-Mellon is in 
Region II of NSBE and the new Regional 
Chairperson is Sharon* Hill of North i
Carolina State. For the third consecutive ' 
year the National Secretary is from Region
II, this year Penn.
Kevin Kelly of Carnegie-Mellon was 
elected as a Regional Board member from 
Pennsylvania and Delaware, and is the pri­
mary link between CMU, Pitt, Duquesne, 
Penn State and other schools in Western 
Pennsylvania.
The Carnegie-Mellon Society of Black 
Engineers was founded in February of
1979. Its goal is to promote Black Parti­
cipation in engineering as an integral part 
of the struggle to end oppression of mino­
rities throughout the world. CMU-NSBE 
meets the second Tuesday of every month 
in Skibo. Tonight’s meeting is at 7 PM 
in Room 11.
theater
April 10-12, 17-19 
Scotch and Soda
Carnegie-Mellon's resident theater troupe 
presents its Spring Musical, Kije, in Skibo 
Ballroom. Kije is an original musical; 
written, directed, designed and acted by 
CMU students. Can a chaste princess find 
happiness with a mere minstrel in the 
magical Land of Wuz? Tickets are available 
at Skibo Information Desk for $2.50 
($2 on April 10). 578-3522 for infor­
mation.
April 9—May 18 
Pittsburgh Public Theater
The Public's final production of the 1979-80 
season is MacBeth, one of Shakespeare's 
darkest tragedies. Performances at the 
Allegheny Theater. 323-1900 for tickets 
and information.
April 11, 12, 16-19 
Carlow College
Noel Coward's Blithe Spirit will be per­
formed at Carlow's Kresge Theater. 578- 
6036 for tickets and information.
April 3—20, Thu-Sun 
Theatre Express
Gertrude Stein's Made By Two, scored by 
Express' William Turner, returns to Pitts­
burgh after New York premiere. Intel­
ligent insight into Stein and Alice B. 
Toklas' famous relationship. 651-5454 for 
tickets and information.
April 11-12, 18-19 and 25-26 
Iron Clad Agreement
A double bill of original plays; My Dear 
Sisters, CMU professor James Rosenberg's 
play about the Grimke Sisters, early 
social reformers, and 57 by Two, a Vaude­
ville treatment of the life of~H.J. Heinz, 
the famous food processor. At the Lion 
Walk on Baum Boulevard. 731-2445 for 
tickets and information.
Through April 20, Thu-Sun
Soho Repertory Company
The Hostage, Brendan Behan's play about
prejudice and chauvinism in a Dublin
lodging house, runs st the corner of Fifth
and Craig in Oakland. 682-0438 for tickets
and information.
coming events
April 10—May 3, Thu-Sun 
University of Pittsburgh
Ronald A. Wisniski stars in the one-man 
show, Bully: An Adventure With Teddy 
Roosevelt. This acclaimed production 
moves to the Mattress Factory on the 
North Side. 231-6036 for tickets and 
information.
films
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
Showings at 7:30 and 9:30 PM except 
where noted. Admission is $2.50.
April 8
Another Thin Man 
April 9 
Walkout
April 10
Aguirre, The Wrath of God 
April 11
Tom Jones
at 2, 7:30 and 9:45 PM
April 12
Same Time, Next Year
at 2,7:30 and 9:45 PM
April 13
The King and /
at 2, 7:30 and 9:45 PM
SDC Film
Get Out Your Handkerchiefs
at 6, 8, 10 PM and midnight in DH2210. 
Admission $.50 with CMU ID, $.75 
without.
Johnl couldn’tbetweenMarine Biology and Lam
His counselor could have helped.
If he’d only asked. You see, that’s what counselors 
are for. They can help you plan your career before 
you graduate. Which is precisely the topic of our 
next issue of “Insider”—the free supplement to your 
college newspaper from Ford.
We’ll tell you how counselors can help take the 
mystery out of planning a successful career. By 
figuring out what you’re best suited for... and then 
helping you go after it. Success doesn’t have to 
be a big secret—if you plan it right.
And while you’re checking out the next issue of 
“Insider,” be sure to check out Ford’s exciting 
lineup for 1980. They’ve got some great ideas for 
getting you wherever you’re going, in style.
"Insider”- Ford’s continuing series off college newspaper supplements is coming next week. Look for it.
FORD
« *1
FORD DIVISION

---------------------------------------------------

[Friday Film
\ Animal House
at 6, 8, 10 PM and midnight in DH2210. 
Admission is $1 with CMU ID, $1.50
without.
The midnight-Morning music of the Wizard 
presents theYardbirds, live at the Anderson 
Theatre in New York, 1968. This is the 
legendary farewell concert, featuring Jim­
my Page on lead guitar and Keith Relf on 
vocals. Songs perfromed include their 
classics, Train Kept A-Rollin,” "Shapes 
of Things,” and the Yardbird version of 
"Dazed and Confused." A rare rock and 
roll experience. Sonic sound to blow your 
head away.
¡April 8 at 9:00 PM
Progressive group Runaway will Jae the 
(featured guest on a WRCT special with 
Ihost DJ, SW. Runaway, who perform every 
¦Thursday night at the Tin Pan Alley Club 
[¡n Wheeling, are a big favorite at CMU frat 
¡houses, having most recently performed at 
)U.
The special will feature music from their 
Ijust finished album, Rivers of Dreams.
special
April 7 at 4:30 PM. Professor Leonard
Susskind of Stanford University lecture 
on "Quantum Chromodynamics." Science 
Hall 7500. Coffee served at 4:15.
April 7 at 7:30 PM. Lecture by David Hill
of Burt, Hill, Kosar, Rittelman Associates 
on "Insulation and Glazing for Solar 
Systems" in the Multi-purpose Room of 
Hunt library.
April 9 at 3:30 PM
Lecture by Dr. Frank Solomon of the 
Center for Cancer Research, MIT on 
"Cell Shape: Heritable Patterns and Mole­
cular Components" in the Mellon Institute 
Conference Room. Coffee served at 3:15.
April 9 at 3:30 PM
Lecture by Michael O'Sullivan of the Uni­
versity of Auckland, New Zealand on 
"Similarity Methods for Two-Phase Geo­
thermal Well Test Analysis" in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium. Coffee and doughnuts served 
afterwards in Scaife Hall 3??
April 9 at 7:30 PM
Lecture by Eleanor Moty of the University 
of Wisconsin on photoetching and photo­
fabrication in the Hunt Library Multi­
purpose room.-
April 9 at 4:15 PM
Lecture by Professor Leonard Susskind 
of Stanford University on 'The Funda­
mental Constants of Nature" in Doherty 
Hall 1212. Coffee served at 4 PM.
April 9 at 3:30 PM
Lecture by Dana Scott, Professor of 
mathematical logic at Oxford University 
on "What is Denotational Semantics" in 
Science Hall 7500. Coffee and doughnuts 
served in Science Hall 7500 at 3 PM.
classified
Vin $500 cash for your vacation this
jmmer. No obligation. To receive entry 
)rm send self addressed stamped envelope 
Summer Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 730, 
)eur d'Alene, Idaho 83814. 
juirrel Hill Sublet. Own bedroom in a 
|uge 2 - floor apt. AC, W-W. May - Sept. 
i/ith option. Close to CMU, convenient to 
fansportation and stores. Call 521-2210. 
(TING. Experienced. My Home. Selectric 
1.521-7888.
¡ummer Jobs — Skilled/Unskilled Labor.
mailable on temporary basis. Short/Long 
irm assignments. Students/T eachers 
slcome. Car/Phone necessary. Must be at 
ast 18. Call for appointment. Manpower 
smporary Services—Downtown, South 
Pills, Monroeville, and Parkway West. 
M-8912.
»liege Students - Summer Jobs!!
[terviewing and reserving now for full- 
ie/part-time local work, Pittsburgh, and 
grounding counties. Car necessary, start 
$5.83/hr., hours flexible. Call (12 noon
4 PM) Monday through Saturday. 
[12-6127,)king for a woman to share a furnished
[artment in Squirrel Hill. Rent $130 + 
Petrie. Call 422-7026 or 833-6565. 
immer Jobs - Typing,Secretarial, Clerical.
Available on a temporary basis. Short/Long 
term assignments. Students/Teachers 
welcome. Must be at least 18. Call for 
appointment. Manpower Temporary Ser­
vices — Downtown, South Hills, Monroe- 
v[lle,and Parkway West. 391-7034. 
Shadyside - two and three bedroom luxury 
apts. Equipped kitchen, dishwasher, dis­
posal; a/c,w/w, fireplace, bay window, 
security door. $325-$375 plus gas and 
electric. Available May-Sept. Now taking 
applications 3-5 PM 462-7319. After 5 PM, 
362-8887.
FOR SALE! Immaculate, completely fur­
nished brick townhouse; 4y2 baths, large 
kitchen, spacious bedrooms, located across 
IM field. For further details call 578-5960. 
Summer Sublet available — May 15-Aug 15. 
1BR, Kitchen, bath, LK/DR, Furnished. 
15 Min. walk to CMU, 10 min walk to Pitt. 
$300/mo including utilities.
To Sandra and everyone who was part 
of the birhtday card conspiracy—Thanks 
for making my 30th birthday such a 
memorable one. It will be difficult to for­
get the year I received over 200 birthday 
cards!—Janet.
TYPING—Term Paper, Thesis, etc. Fee
Negotiable. Call Jane after 6:00. PM— 
673-6951.
Summer Housing available at: Theta Xi
fraternity. For info call 682-9580. Ask for 
Summer House Manager.
JOB HUNTING? Get more interviews with
a professionally prepared, individually de­
signed resume trom employment experts. 
Complete writing, editing, typing and 
printing services. Special student discount 
rates! Call today! MANGO-ANDREWS 
RESUME SERVICE - 391-3232.
I will pay $25 for a lease available May 1 
in the Shadyside - CMU area. Call before
5 PM: 232-3012. Ask for Bob.
For rent, June 1: Shadyside efficiency, 
$225, all utilities included. Modern, secure 
building. Fifteen minute walk to CMU. 
Call 682-0721.Councelors, over 19 for unique over­
night boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge 
Mountains of Penna. Able to instruct either 
one of following: Watersafety, Arts & Crafts, 
Soccer, Basketball, Ahletics, Rockclimbing, 
Archery, Track, Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. 
Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler 
Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444, or call 
215-828-4824 collect.
Dance Classes. Rode ’n Roll, Disco-Jazz. 
"Big Band Era", "New Wave Rock”. 
Holiday House 241-2162.
Shadyside - 3 bdrm, fum., carp., $355/mo 
-futilities.
Lunch-Lutheran University Center, 4515
Forbes. Mon-Fri. 11:30-1:15. Soup, sand­
wich or salad, dessert, beverage, $1.25. 
Everyone welcome.
Three bedroom, carpeting, appliances,
laundry heat paid. From $389. Available 
May, June, and September. 682-7010 
Looking for a Summer ft-oject, or a Job in
the fall? Help put together a Student Co-op 
Store and ar Coffeehouse in the Marg. 
Morrison St. Storefronts. The initial Plan­
ning Committee is now forming. Get in on 
the ground floor and gain valuable practi­
cal experience. Call Peter at 361-0785 or 
leave your name at the Skibo information 
desk.WANTED: Graduate student’s wife to do
babysitting during day at odd hours. 
Please call 521-1443.
GIRLS..ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A
SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION ? 
Applicants are now being considered for 
the 1980 camp season. Must be able to 
teach one of the following: Arts & Crafts, 
Arts & Crafts Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing. Archery, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Gymnastics, Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim­
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General 
Athletics. COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, 
must be college graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for 
activities, evening programs, etc. Supervise 
large staff. Write Camp Office, 6410 
Beacon St., Pittsburgh, Pa., 15217, or 
phone, 412-521-2376.
Currents
Design Lecture Series
Sponsored by the Department of Design 
Carnegie-Mellon University
April 16 Norman Gorbaty
DesignerIllustration, Design,Time Frames and Seduction
PH 100v\Wed. 8 pm
^iMMOOtOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOQCQQQQQQQQQ&MQflQQQflQQQQQOQQQQQOQQQfliMMMAMMflMiWflflQflQQfiQQQOOQQOOOQOOOOOOOOOCAT,£”:t CMU TRAVEL OFFICE c*u,7««,
inQpp|)OOOO0Q0QQ0()0()(!!)iliMMJ)Jll8MM.9i>fi.98.9MMMMMMfi8fi8Q0QQ00QQQ0Q00OOQQ000000Q0Q0OQQOQooQOQ

---------------------------------------------------

Drakes back tomorrow — be there. Aloha.
Foosball
Bass Player with PA. into new wave or
power pop rock, call Bernie 834-1055. 
LACROSSE PLAYER WANTED. PITTS-
burgh Club now playing. Call Mark 
Howard at 683-4295 or John Weaver at 
831-5873 for information.clubsScotch n Soda will hold a script review for
the 1980-1981 season on Tuesday, April 
22 at 7:30 PM in Skibo room 11. We are 
looking for completed and partially com­
pleted scripts, scenes, good ideas, etc. for a 
fall production and for the Spring Musical. 
For more information, please call Tom at 
x4270.
Do you know who Fellini is? Bergman,
Rohmer, deSica, Welles, Truffaut, Hitch­
cock, Altman? If you do, come to the 
Thursday Film Arts meeting to help 
select next semester's films. Wednesday, 
April 9th, 7:00, Activities Board Office, 
Skibo1979 THISTLES are here. Pick them up
at the Skibo information desk. 
AIESEC-CMU is hosting a career seminar
entitled "What Do These Men Know That 
Could Make You A Success?"on Thursday, 
April 10, at 7:30 PM in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. Four top Pittsburgh busi­
nessmen will discuss job opportunities and 
their careers in Marketing, Engineering, and 
Management, Accounting, and Banking and 
Finance. The seminar is free and open to 
the public, vofficial
EXIT INTERVIEWS FOR ALL MAY 1980
GRADUATES with National Direct/De­
fense Student Loans will be held from 
April 21 thru April 25. Interviews will also 
be held for any NDSL borrower who, 
although not graduating, will not be re­
turning for the Fall 1980 semester. The 
interviews will last approximately five 
minutes and will be scheduled as follows: 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse, 
Monday thru Friday, 9 AM to 4 PM. If 
unable to attend or for more information 
call Mr. Rapin, 578-2094 or come to the 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse. 
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
ACHIEVE BETTER GRADES IN YOUR 
COURSES by improving your writing 
skills. The Communication Skills Center 
offers free individual help with interpret­
ing assignments, finding ideas, planning 
and revising. Make appointments with 
faculty and specially trained students 
from 9 - 4 Monday thur Friday at 161 
Baker Hall - 578-2924.general
The City of Pittsburgh, Department of
Parks and Recreation has summer job 
openings in its summer arts program. 
Applicants must be able to work outside, 
work with children, have a well rounded 
knowledge of art, and be able to organize
arts activities for large groups of either 
children or adults. Those students who 
are interested should send a resume to Arts 
in the Park, Department of Parks and Re­
creation, 400 City-County Building, Pitts­
burgh, PA. 15219. Be sure to include 
your current phone number. All appli­
cants must be city residents and able to 
qualify under summer employment guide- 
lings. For further information, please 
call 255-2354.
Pittsburgh Mobilization for Survival an-
nouced that it will be sending 6 busloads of 
activists to Washington D.C. for the mass 
rally and march against nuclear weapons 
and nuclear power on Saturday, 26 April, 
1980. The buses will depart Pittsburgh at 5 
AM on Sat. the 26th, returning at midnight 
the same day. The round trip cost per per­
son is $15. Reservations are now being ac­
cepted with a deadline of April 14.
The April 26 action will be followed by 
non-violent civil disobedience at the Dept, 
of Energy on April 28th. Promoter of nu­
clear power and builder of nuclear weapons, 
the DOE will see our unwavering opposi­
tion to nuclear destruction and urged to 
make a shift in priorities to job-producing 
safe energy.
CMU will host a student presentation for
the General Motors Intercollegiate Business 
Understanding Program, on April 1 at 
12:30 in the GSIA auditorium on the CMU 
campus. The student group will address the 
question: "Government & Business — What 
are the Roles and Responsibilities of Each?"
The presentation is free and open to the 
public.
The City of Pittsburgh, Department of
Parks and Recreation has summer job o- 
penings in its concert and film program. 
Applicants must have some knowledge of 
audio-visual equipment, be willing to work 
evenings and weekends, and the ability to 
lift and carry heavy equipment. Those 
students who are interested, should send a 
resume to Christina Beaman, 400 City- 
County Building, Pittsburgh, PA. 15219. 
Please remember to include a current 
phone number on your resume. All appli­
cants must be city residents and able to 
qualify under summer employment guide­
lines. For more information, please call 
255-2354.Optical Society of America, Pittsburgh
section invites you to a lecture on "Optical 
Research in Applied Biophysics Laboratory 
of Technical University of Budapest" on 
April 16. The speaker will be Prof. Pal 
Gregus of Appl. Biophysics Lab. of Tech­
nical University of Budapest, Hungary. 
This lecture will begin at 8:30 PM in the 
multi-purpose room of Hunt Library, CMU 
and is open to the public.
Would you like to contribute to finding the 
solution to the energy shortage? We've 
been working on an Energy Efficiency 
Competition which features students, in­
ventors and engineers who are trying to 
invent the most energy efficient refrigera­
tor freezer, water heater and air-conditioner. 
We want you, either working alone or as 
part of a team, to submit a prototype of a 
refrigerator-f reezer, air-conditioner or 
water heater
Check with your department to see if
you will be able to recieve independant 
study credit for the work you do on your 
appliance prototype.
The final evaluation will be in the late 
summer of 1980. Write to us at USER for 
the rules and an application. Write today to 
USER/ P.O. Box 19112 / 20th Street Sta­
tion / Washington, DC 20009.
Seven of Pittsburgh’s major arts institu­
tions will join together to present a "Cul­
tural Sampler" open free of charge to the 
public on Thursday, May 8 from 6 to 7:30 
PM at Kaufmann's Downtown auditorium. 
A reception begins at 5:30 PM. The Sam­
pler, which is sponsored for-the second 
consecutive year by Triangle Corner, Ltd., 
Kaufmann's Program for Women in Busi­
ness, will offer a preview of the upcoming 
1980-81 cultural season in Pittsburgh.
The Cultural Sampler will be held in ,the 
Auditorium, 11th Floor at Kaufmann's 
Downtown. Complimentary tickets may be 
obtained by writing to Triangle Corner, 
Ltd., 400 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa 
15219. For information, call Triangle Cor­
ner at (412) 232-2313.
Chataqua Institution will offer music 
workshops for teachers in addition to its 
student workshops this summer. "Kodaly 
Principles of Music Education: Primary 
Grades" will be offered July 7-11. It will 
focus on the music education approach in­
spired by the noted Hungarian musician, 
Zoltán Kodaly. Another related course 
will be "Carl Orff: Music for Children,” 
designed for students college age and up. 
It will teach philosophy, use of basic 
materials and teaching procedures. The 
course will be offered August 11-15. 
Other workshops offered this summer in­
clude beginning and intermediate guitar, 
string instrument repair, recorder and early 
music, and an organ workshop. For further 
information concerning Chautauqua's 
music workshops, contact the Schools 
Office, Box 28, Chautauqua, N.Y. 14722. 
The Combined Choirs of The Church of 
the Redeemer at 5700 Forbes Ave., 
Squirrel Hill, will present an Evensong 
Program in the church sanctuary at 4:30 
Pm, April 20. All are cordially invited ot 
attend.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu­
mentation, Carnegie-Mellon University,will 
present a major exhibition of late 18th and 
early 19th century botanical watercolors 
from March 31 through July 18,1980.
"A Selection of Indian Botanical Paint­
ings" will be on display in the Penthouse of 
Hunt Libarary on the Carnegie-Mellon 
University campus,and is open from 9:00 
AM to 5:00 PM, MOnday through Friday. 
The exhibition is open to the public free 
of charge.
The Central Catholic Masque is proud to
present Burt Shevelove's and Stephen 
Sondheim's smash hit A Funny Thing 
Happened on the Way to the Forum on 
April 11, 12, 13, 18, and 19. The Central 
Catholic Stage Band will supply the music, 
and refreshments will be served in tradi­
tional Roman style from a booth decorated 
in a classical motif. Tickets are $2.50 for 
adults and $1.75 for students and senior 
citizens.
On Saturday, April 12, there will be a
morning workshop for students and faculty 
concerned with implementing educational 
change at Carnegie-Mellon — in their own 
classrooms and in the school as a whole. It 
will focus on facilitating individuals to 
determine their own next steps for effect­
ing change at CMU and on ways of gaining 
support to prevent getting isolated and 
burnt out. For more information contact 
Ellis Cohen Sch 6301, ext 3609 or 661 -7699 
“Insulation and Glazing for Solar Systems” 
will be presented at Carnegie-Mellon Uni­
versity on Tuesday, April 8 at 7:30 PM. 
The speaker, David Hill, is an associate at 
Burt, Hill, Kosar, Rittelmann Associates of 
Butler, Pennsylvania, a leading firm in solar 
architecture and research. Hill will discuss 
types and uses of insulation and glazing 
pertaining to their applications in solar de­
sign. The lecture, presented by the Western 
Pennsylvania Solar Energy Association and 
co-sponsored by the Institute of Building 
Sciences at CMU, will be held in the'Hunt 
Multi-purpose Room on the CMU campus 
and is free and open to the public. 
Reduction from 12-25 percent are being 
offered to students, teachers and instruc­
tors, for 14-day cruises to the People's 
Republic of China aboard the m/v Aqua­
marine.
Further information and brochures may be 
obtained from Travel force/Aquamarine, 
153 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 
94108 (toll free: 800-227-4766).
BE A BIG BROTHER OR BIG SISTER 
There is a boy or girl in the Pittsburgh 
area who needs just a little of your time- 
to know you care, to know you are there. 
Call Big Brothers and Sisters of Greater 
Pittsburgh, Inc., 621-6100.scholarship
German Studies Summer Course (in
English) at Kiel University, June 15- 
July 19, 1980. This couse is designed 
for non-German speaking advanced stu­
dents or young faculty members in all 
fields who are interested in improving thei 
understanding of recent developments in 
Germany. Lectures and seminars on a 
variety of topics will be offered. In addi­
tion, discussions with German students, 
excursions and visits to interesting places 
are on the agenda. Application deadline is 
March 17,1980.A new opportunity for study in Denmark
will be offered-this fall when Scandinavian 
Seminar begins its one-semester program 
for college students and other adults. The 
program will start at the end of July and 
extend over the fall months tiii 
December. It will be run along the same 
lines as Scandinavian Seminar's regular aca­
demic year program in Denmark, Finland, 
Norway or Sweden. After a short 'intro­
ductory course, the students will partici­
pate in an intensive two-week language 
course and then spend some time with a 
Danish family practicing the language 
Applications for the program will be ac­
cepted until May 15th. For further infor 
mation, write to Scandinavian Seminars, 
100 East 85th St., New York, N.Y. 10028.
O
Ri
-
t i-Mil s.!y..; U-..1 —¦ »J-17*.
Monday, April 7 - Friday April 11
3?o.r..---  r- •-•> <;-y^ jv - ¦ - at’:>  
j .I-1 -¦ »...'ii n.’T1«-, v*i •! ... ,-n
“EE’S DO IT WITH SUCH
Y
o
HH107 4:30 - 5:30S | H I
? f* 
/ rFREQUENCY IT HERTZ.”
