HOMF. CONCERT AND 
DANCE 
FRIDAY. MARCH 23
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21 
ELECTIONS 
ARTS THEATRE
VOL. XXII NO. 26CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 20, 1928
Pn D A T1MTC rnn travel number of puppet 
, tr avr e lvnum boa fp go on sale this noon
FRATERNITIES ANDStop, look and listen. The big ! 
Travel Number of the Puppet makes jDORMS ANNOUNCED}““™
---------------- \ body the opportunity of enjoying the ;
HO MF i_ T-* *i Irest of the day in laughter, as Pup-blgma Alpha Epsilon, JJelta pet carries on from one page to an-
Mu, Delta Upsilon, Beta Thetaj «“s ^ the latest :’ *¦. modes of travel for the up-to-date col- jPi, Alpha Sigma Phi Lead lese student.J The cover, which was designed by J 
Mr, John Carr, an alumnus of the i
ELM FORBES, MELLON I ,>aInUnK Hn<1 Decorating Department,will be as striking, if not more so, as HEAD WOMENS' DORMS | any cover presented this year. If :
__________ j the mode of travel as pictured on the
j cover ever becomes practical, every- j 
Henderson, McGill and Scobell ¡ body will immediately discard- his old
car to try the Puppet way. Not only 
• is the cover good, but the material; 
, within the cover is exceedingly clever. ;
__________ j Jokes and cults, which excel any col-,
j lege comic printed, will feature each 
The fraternity and dormitory rat- and every page.
Wherein the Author Discourses on
Whims and Fancies of Humanity
The psychologists tell us that we’re I a mere suggestion i 
all a bit “off," and the degree of “off- ¡holding my nose a
of a slit and from 
and running madly
uess" 1 determines whether we’re ge- j past the house. Yes, I admit having 
niuses or fools, or both. We all aim ! an "offness,” too. Very frank, isn't 
to be geniuses aud appear to be fools, i it?
but mostly hit the mid-water line and 
flutter toward one or the other ex­
treme—and distract our families and 
brighten our doctor’s hope of another 
well-paying patient to help defray his
Another evidence of the fool-genius 
disea.se got on the street car tho other 
morning. It was a book-laden school 
girl carry a carfon of Camels, much 
to the evident horror of the older gen
wife’s poker I. O. II.’s. Such is hu-¡ eration present and to the amusement
Rate Highest of Men’s 
Dormitories
inanity, whicli manifests itself in as 
many ways as a woman has «variations 
of 'temperament (with the usual ac­
cent on the first two Syllables).
For instance, there is the handsome 
young man I see every morning, who
of the younger passengers. The air 
became electrified, with the young ci- 
garet fiend, the target of the light­
ning. It evidently got to be too much 
for the youngster who defiantly 
opened the carton of Camels and dis-
Now with all of this information in 
mind, surely, everybody will have his 
fare ready to drop in the box. The 
first stop will be YOU.
ings for the first semester of 1927-28 
are shown below. The position is de­
termined by the ratio of the total qual­
ity points earned by a group to the^ 
total units of work carried by its 
members. The rating of any group 
having less than fifteen active mem­
bers during the first seriiester has not 
been used jn the compilation. By ac­
tion of the Interfraternity Council
eligibility to compete for the scholar- > ----------------
ship cup is limited to fraternities l.av-j Day After Easter Holidays
wears a form-fitting, blue coat, glori- i played—a bathing cap and a curling 
.CN yellow pig -skin gloves, and a ! iron! And then I wondered who ap- 
terby which sits on )iis head just like j proaehed the "fool” extreme more
nobody’s business—and who passes 
by me (like a fire-horse with a pain 
in its stomach) riding a motorcycle, 
with his lovely blue coat tails flying
gss hgfi^ugs .p^ f_u*fsi
ho*f Ai *iLf uL gf pLUi
The 192S Thistle staff wishes to j 
make its last, appeal for material from ! 
those organizations which have not as 
yet sent in their contributions. The 
Thistle has. already gone to press and | 
unless these organizations submit j 
their copy at once, it will be too late, i 
Efficient co-operation by various or­
ganizations and societies concerned 
will facilitate the completion of the 
book in the near future.
All last minute communications | 
should be sent to Dave Wilson in care 
of the Beta Theta. Pi fraternity, 5549 ! 
Forbes street.
FIRST BALLOT FOR 
CAMPUS QUEEN TO 
BE CAST TOMORROW
15 Highest Seniors in M.M. or 
Aré to Become Candidates 
For Second Ballot Next Wed.
ADELEJHAHN CHOSEN 
GENERAL CHAIRM AN
Annual Home Concert 
And Dance To Be Held 
Friday Night, March 23
Eight Chairmen and Secretary 
Have Been Selected to Plan 
Girls’ Events
Freshmen To Begin 
Preparation Soon For 
Annual Masquerade
ing 15 or more active members.
The scholarship cups are not 
awarded at this time of the year but 
,in September, on the work of both the 
1 first and second semesters.
.bMNIbvENEIBr
1. Sigma Alpha Epsilon..
2. Delta Mu.......................
3. Delta Upsilon...........
Beta Theta Pi...........................3.64
Alpha Sigma Phi......................3.61
Phi Kappa ...............................3.55
Delta Tail Delta!....................3.54
Delta Phi Delta.........................3.52
.3.69
.3.68
.3.66
4.
Rr
8r
Chosen by Council 
for Plebe Prom
9. Sigma Nu .................................3.51 !
10. Pi Kappa Alpha.......
11. Kappa. Sigma '.........
12. Alpha Tau Omega..
13. Theta Xi ..................
14. Kappa Sigma Rho..
15. PhLSigma Kappa-----
16. Sigma Phi Epsilon..
Dormitories.
1. Henderson Hall ...
2. McGill Mil ............
3. Scobell Hall............
4. Boss Hall ................
5 Welch Hall ...........*>.
The sorority and dormitory ratings 
for the first semester of 1927-28 are 
shown below. The position is deter­
mined by the ratio of the total qual­
ity points earned by a group to the 
total units of work carried- by its 
members.
The scholarship cups are not award­
ed at this time of the year but in Sep-
At a recent Student Council meet­
ing the date for the annual Plebe 
Prom was announced. Tuesday, April 
10, was chosen as being most advan­
tageous. All plebes are required to be 
present iii costume. Through an un­
intentional error, A1 Brown, president 
of the Industries Senate, was omit 
ted from the list of committeemen in 
charge of the Prom.
The class of ’31 should not get the 
.. .3.50-j mistaken idea that the Plebe Prom
-----3.51 ! is just another regulation set up by
-----3.40 ! the sophomores. On the contrary, it
....3.38 ; is an opportunity for a good time for 
all plebes who attend. There will be 
no excuses from the Prom, and all 
plebes not present in costume will in­
cur the penalty, a haircut 
From 5 to 8 students will be exempt 
in each school, depending on the en­
rollment of the school. The frosli will 
pass, one by one, in front of an audi­
ence composed of upper classmen, 
and the applause received will be an 
indication of their popularity, and the 
judges will act accordingly.
The Druids a sophomore honorary, 
will be actively engaged in checking 
up class rolls to determine the absent 
frosh. Fraternities are requested to 
co-operate . with, the sophomores and 
the the main committee by seeing that
.3.37
.3.20
.3.10
.3.67
.3.51
.3.48
.3.23
.3.22
A1 Rowland’s Orchestra Will 
Play for Dance in Union 
Following Concert
closely, the Camel box girl or the new 
self-conscious critics.
So don’t'worry too much about your- 
self, if you suddenly stand up in the 
n the wind. Ichabod Crane per twen- I midst of a play at the theater and 
ietli century! j shout: "Terrible, terrible—give ’em
And yesterday I passed.a house dis- I the hook!” or if you happen t.o write j 
,playing a. ‘measles” sign. And it took I a. poem, or if you jump out of a. den- j
all the self-control I’ve been develop- list’s chair and use the drill on the WIth a11 finul ni'rangements made 
ing since I had a dose of self-control dentist's pet eye. It’s all merely a to1' the illlullal Home Concert aud 
gorm administered with a hair brush > normal manifestation of your offness. Dance, given by the combined Men’s 
to the back of my lap in the dim pasl, j Be calm till it passes, and wait for [1111(1 Women’s Cilco Clubs on Friday, 
to refrain from closing my mouth into the next spell. That's life! March 23, everything points to a great
success. Tho concert, Jn-escnted in
CARNEGIE QUARTERLY TO 
MAKE DEBUf APRIL FIRST
PLUMBING CONFERENCE!" Mu8i0111111 wlu bosin 111
BEGINS HERE TOMORROW , The program has been arranged toj include several solo numbers and the 
j very best selections of the two clubs.
Council Has Assured Backing if ; Three
Budget is Raised; Many 
Positions Vacant
Day Meeting, Originated at!”0,111 club" hav0 1,0911 »“»««‘"yI this year, presenting many concerts
iCarnegie, Lasts Until Friday 
Afternoon
An April appearance of the "Car­
negie Quarterly," the new campus
Dr. Walter F. Rittman, 
and head of the department of com
literary magazine, is almost an as- mercial engineering and William T. 
sured fact. Since council has con- j Crandall, assistant professor of com- 
sented to fiance the publication, on j mercial engineering will deliver 
condition that a budget be submitted | several lectures ijh accounting, ad- 
arid approved by it, efforts have been ! vertising, and business methods, at the
¦fourth annual Three Day Institute for 
the; Plumbing, Heating and Ventila­
tion Industries which will open to- tain the necessary funds to publish llw wUh registration and continue
made to secure an estimate of all the 
costs to be encountered and to ob-
the journal. Though a fair response 
has been shown by many on the .cam 
pus to the call for--volunteers for both 
the editorial and business staff of the 
magazine, opportunities are still • be­
ing offered for interesting work 011 
the advertising and circulation staffs. 
Financial contributions 
ing accepted. ' Many 
partons, “friends,” and private in-
in and around Pittsburgh, The en­
thusiasm with which both clubs have 
.been received at all their appearances 
j this year indicates that the Home 
professor ( Concert will be an outstanding musi­
cal event. The Men’s Glee Club is to 
be under the direction of the student 
director, Mr. Walter J. Poyntz, who is 
a senior in the Department of Music 
and has been very active in the pro­
motion of musical activities on the 
campus. Mr. 1 Alfred H. Johnson, 
graduate of the Department of Music 
is to direct the Women’s Cileo Club.
The Home Concort Dance, which 
is hold oach year in conjunction will« 
the concert, is being held in the 
Union. A1 Itol Howland’s "Collegetl>. - >;gh‘ Friday afternoon, March 23, 
at 9:0-0 A. M. in Industries Building.
The primary purpose of this con* I plab Orchestra” has been socured, 
ference is to discuss problems peculiar 1 and' will fill tho Union with their 
to tho industries and to suggest porri- j rythmic melodies from nine o’clock 
ble solutions to these problems. 1 until one, Howland's Orchestra need 
Other lectures included In the pro- 1 bo commontod upon, being well- 
are still be' ¡.gram of events are a discussion of j known on the campus through their 
fraternities, j ••¡loaf' by Professor Harry T. Ilowor; i excellent brand of dance music. This 
Water Heating” by Assistant Pro- j orchestra is popular among
RL tili« bllllC Ui Hie Tttu l/Vit 111 ,
tomber, on tho work of both the first a" °r "li!,r fre8llllle11 present
andsecond semesters.
SObFENObEIBr
1,Elm Hall ............................ .. .4.26
2.Forbes Hall ............................4.19
3.Mellon Hall .....................,... .4.16
4.Sycamore Hall.................___3.88
5.Walnut Hall ...................___3.76
6.Oak Hall ...........................____3.64
7.Birch Hall.........................___3.55
S.
9.Laurel Hall .....................___3.53
10.Hawthorne Hall .....................3.47
11.Linden Hall .....................___3.21
12.Spruce Hall .,.................____3.19
13.Magnolia Hall .............
*ObObENEIBr
___2.98
1.Alpha Kappa. Psi......................4.13
2.Beta Pi .....................................3.95
3.
4.Gamma Gamma Gamma..____3.76
in
costume on Tuesday, April 10, at 11:30rJin the designated-room in each col­
lege.
After the local assemblies, all the 
plebes will form a parade and will be 
led by the clown band composed of 
(Continued on Page Two)
Á.V. DeForest Lectures Here 
March 26th, 28th in Union
dividual».have already sent In money |feasor A. H. Blalsdoll; and "Codes 
to finance the first issue.
! At the staff meeting 011 Monday, 
j March 12, bids for the printing of the 
j magazine wese considesed. Upon re- 
I ceipt of "dummies” ifrom a few .more 
j companies, the contract will be closod 
for a sixty-four page book, including 
a colored over.
Material may be sent to any of the 
associate editors, or to Walter Rogers, 
editor-in-chief. Literary contributions 
have been coming in slowly. In order 
to insure publication of the magazine 
in April, all material should be sub­
mitted with this week, or, not later 
than the early part of, next week, In-
Clef Club' Initiation to
Be .Sunday, March 25
The Carnegie Clef Club, well-known 
musical honorary society on the cam­
pus, is to become a chapter of the 
Phi Mu Alpha Symphonia, a national 
musical honorary fraternity. Phi Mu 
Alpha is the strongest musical hon­
orary in the country and lias branches 
in all musical schools. The installa­
tion is to take place on Sunday, March 
25, in the Little Arts Theater. Initia­
tion will take place at 1:.00 p. 111. on 
that day. The president of .the na­
tional organization, .Dykema, and the 
governor of this district, Church, will 
come from New York to be present at 
the installation, and a large number of 
symphoniaus from this district are ex­
pected. Great plans are being laid, 
due to the coming of the national 
officers.
The Carnegie Clef Club has 22 ac­
tive members. It was organized in 
1919 and reorganized in 1924. Calls 
have been made in the four schools 
to men of musical talent.
Next Monday, Tuesday and Wed­
nesday evenings, March 26, 27 and 2S, 
at S:30 in the Carnegie Union, Alfred 
Victor De Forest, research engineer 
for the American Chain Company, will 
deliver a series of three public lec­
tures on "Testing, Selection and Sur­
vival Among Engineering Metals.”
| Mr. De Forest is a graduate of the 
jcla,ss of 1912, in the department of 
| Naval Architecture, from the Massa­
chusetts Institute of Technology. Be­
tween 1913 and 1916 he continued his 
studies at Princeton and at Columbia, 
where he specialized in the science 
of metallography. In 1916, as, a re­
search engineers, he joined the staff 
of the Remington Arms Union Metal­
lic Cartridge Company; In 191S he be­
came research engineer of the Amer­
ican Chain Company of Bridgeport, 
Connecticut. During the last eight 
years he lias devoted much time to 
the development of test methods, par­
ticularly in the field of magnetic 
analysis.
*U_psg^*_uT* .uLgLUiS
AH .oLS* .^ph AiLi.uf
The Women’s Scholarship Organiza­
tion has disposed of the money earned 
by the benefit performance held in 
February. • Two inter-sorority scholar­
ships amounting to $100 each haVe 
been voted upon. The scholarships of 
$50 for, the Costume Economics Club 
of Margaret Morrison has also been 
passed. The remainder of the money 
has been kept for a work account in 
order to be able to carry on the or­
ganization next year.
and Ethics" by Professor Samuel E. 
Dibble. There will be, as other fea­
tures, demonstrations or syphonago 
and venting traps, welding, steam 
line connections and steam pipe sizes.
After registration of those attend­
ing, which will occur between 9:00 
A. M. and 11:00 A. M. tommorow, Dr. 
C. B. Connelly, director of industrial 
relations, Arthur Crawford Jewett, 
director of the College in Industries, 
and J. I-l, Lutz, Jr., president of the 
Pennsylvania State Association of 
Master Plumbers will deliver ad­
dresses of welcome. The ensuing pro­
gram of. lectures, all to be held at
the (fra­
ternities 011 the campus. A few sim­
ple decorations will sulTlco to grab 
the Union for the affair. A largo 
crowd is expected for the dance, be­
cause there will be 110 other events 
on the campus that night, and It is the 
last dance before the Easter vaca­
tion. The price of admission Is $1.25 
per couple.
Although the concert is expected to 
last until ten o'clock the dance will 
begin at nine o’clock, in accommoda­
tion of those who do not desire to at 
tend the concert;
Tickets for the concert, may be so 
(Continued 011 Pago Three)
teresting and applicable material has I Carnegie Tech, will begin at 2:00 P.already come in. j EO
Several reviews of best recent sei- j The idea of such a conference was 
(Continued on Page Two.) I originated at. Carnegie Tech by Dr. 
------------------------------Clifford B. Connelley, director of in-COMMITTEE APPOINTED "ustrial 1'elntions aml p™t<=BS°1-
BANQUET BY MINING AND 
METALLURGY STUDENTS
Samuel E. Dibble. Since installationFOR MEN’S SENIOR BALL fml1' >'ears aR°’ the conference has
An interesting program has been 
aranged by the Student’s Society of 
Miners and Metallurgists for their an- 
instigated meets at other places, and j nual spring banquet to be held Thurs-
r ‘ ,; similar institutes foir the benefit of. day evening, March 29, in the Faculty 
The Men’s Senior Ball Committee j these industries,, have‘been held in I dining room at Carnegie Inn. Be­
llas been appointed, and plans tor the ¡other educational institutions notably i ginning at 6:30 p. 111. sharp with a fine 
affair are’ already being made. j at New York University, Massachu-1 dinner and ending with war stories of
The Committee consists of Charles . fietts Tech and the University of Illi- Major John B. Carlock, Chief Engi- 
Dickinson, chairman, and Adian Allen j nois. Most of the institutions have | neer of the South Side Works of the 
from the Engineering School, William ; nsed the plan at Carnegie Tech.
Bernardi and Shelby'McMillian from |___________________
Industries, and William Runlsel and « c rp, , ^
John Rietz from Arts School. All of j /YlCCtin^ Ol JhCt2 J2U clt 
these men are prominent on the cam­
pus, with a long list of activities.
The Ball may be_changed to an in­
formal danced This will be decided 
at the next committee meeting, and a 
definite date will be set. The affair 
will be held either at Webster Hall 
or the Morrowfield Apartments.
g^f* TsiAi* LphuLgfi
LiW p..uUi^* .p^ e928-29
Last Tuesday at 11:20 the freshman 
class of the Art School held a very 
important meeting, at which nomina­
tions were made for the election of 
officers for next year’s sophomore 
class. Many names from the several 
departments were nominated, thus 
making the choice of candidates quite 
complete.
Flowers were sent by the class to
! Jones and Laughlin Steel Corpora­
tion, the committee promises that the 
I evening will be well spent. Mr. Car- 
look is a graduate Mining Engineer 
with a wealth of experience and is a 
popular and interesting speaker. Car­
negie will be represented on the pro- 
Nu Chapter, at Carnegie, of Theta j gram by Director Mott of the College
Bureau of Mines Thursday
Miss Parsons, who had only recently 
suffered the bereavement of the death [ Theta Tau members, its pledges and
Tau, National Professional- Engineer 
ing Fraternity, will hold its next meet­
ing at 8 o’clock next Thursday night 
in the lecture hall of the United States 
Bureau of Mines. After the meeting 
there will be a le'cture by a prominent, 
engineer on a very interesting phaze 
of Engineering that should be of valu­
able interest to the students, or any 
one else, for that mattei*.
Following the lecture a film will be 
shown that has recently been made 
under the direction of the Bureau of 
Mines and is one of the films of their 
library. This film will demonstrate 
certain engineering accomplishments 
and 7)romises to be extremely In­
teresting.
The lecture and film will be for
of her father.
A class flag was voted to be pur­
chased and has been, purchased with 
the numerals "31” proudly displayed.
certain invited guests.
Refreshments will be served last 
and thus terminate a particularly Im­
portant and instructive meeting.
of Engineering and Professor Aston 
head of the Mining and Metallurgy 
Department. In addition, Mr. W. L. 
Affelder, Assistant to the President, 
Hillman Coal and Coke Company, and 
Mr. T. D. Lynch, Consulting Metal­
lurgist, Westinghouse Electric and 
Manufacturing Company; chairmen 
respectively of the Mining and of the 
Metallurgical Advisory Board, will 
speak on some phase of industry that 
will be of interest to all. The pro- 
pram will be brought to a closo 
promptly at. 8:30 p. m.
Attendance is not restricted to stu­
dents of mining, geology, and metal­
lurgy. Anyone interested in these 
courses is invited to attend. Tickets 
are $1.00 and may be obtained from 
any of the following committee mem­
bers: G. F. Martin, Chairman; John
M. Byrns, Research. Fellow; F. L 
Fritschie, E. S. Greiner, W. H. Seifert 
and J. A. Scott.
Tomorrow from 12:30 to 1:30 the 
students of Carnegie will cast the first 
ballot, to elect the Queen of the ninth 
annual Campus Week. Ballot boxes 
will be placed in the main hall of each 
of the four schools and two girls ;uul 
a number of the school senate will-.be 
in charge. Each student-may vote fpr 
one girl in the senior class of either 
Margaret Morrison or Arts School 
and the fifteen receiving the .highest, 
number of votes will become candi­
dates. Students should vote only in 
the college in which they are register-, 
ed. .........
This is the first of three ballots
which will be cast. The‘second’will
be held next Wednesday til tlid siiiiio 
time and three girls will be selected 
from tho fifteen, candidates. .Op.¿\p.rU 
11 the final vote will:select oho oi ¡these 
girls as Queen , of . Carnegie’s L92S 
Campus Week. The results bf-‘t!oih<>r- 
row’s ballot, will bo announced in the 
Tartan next Tuesday.
The following chairmen of''tho 
women’s events for Campus'Week 
have been chosen: G'erieral '¿thafnnrili, 
Adolo llalin; coronation, Sally'Hu- 
liclc; costumes for the coronation,
Sally Jolly; girl'd' swiiepstakes, (i'ci'r- 
trudo Zonk; girls’ athletics, DoVMhy 
Roy; Campus Queon election, Barbara 
Iten wick; qualifications, Henrietta 
Aoeipfter; wonvon'ii banquet, Chariot.to 
•Ward n I o'; secretary, Florence Bnlpfi,
and publicity, Catherine Boyd.
Tho program of these events i» 
rather unsettled as yot/ but .work will 
be begun as soon as possible.
The plans for the coronation will 
be announced as soon as they aro 
complete. Tho Queen will be attend­
ed by the fourteen girls selected in 
tho first elimination, her immediate at­
tendants being the two girls selected 
in the second elimination. The coro­
nation usually follows tho plan of a 
story written by a member of the Arts 
School. ThG costumes of the Queen 
and her court will follow the theme 
of the story. They will bo made by 
the girls of the Homo Economics lie* 
partment of Margaret Morrison, who, 
will be members of a. committee head­
ed by Sally Huliclc,
The sweepstakes committee has not 
yet decided upon any definite plan ill jr.' 
the girls' sweepstakes this year, but! 
it will probably be something in .the • 
nature of pogo sticks, kiddy cars or. 
roller skates. Last year roller- skates • 
were chosen and the girls practice 
in Sehenley Park. Funds will .be so­
licited from the girls of Margareb-Mor- 
rison and Arts School for tho purpose 
of providing costumes for the-contest­ants. , ,
The women’s banquet will be- heltf 
in the Carnegie Inn, all alumnae are 
urged to attend and renew old ac­
quaintances.
Ray H. Watterson Elected 
Industries Senate Treasurer
At a revote on last Tuesday, Marth 
13, Ray I-I. Watterson was elected 
treasurer of the Industries Senate,Tby 
the Junior class of the College of In­
dustries. On the first ballot which 
was cast on Thursday, March 8, no 
one received a majority of votes, 
necéssary to pla.ee a man in office, 
so a revote had to be held for tho 
highest two candidates on the pre­
vious ballot.
Ray Watterson who was chosen by 
the Junior class to fill this impórtaiit 
position, is a Junior In the department 
of Building Construction, and a mem­
ber of the Alpha Tau Omega fraterni­
ty. He entered Carnegie with ad­
vance standing.
Bosides being treasurer of 
the Industries Senate,? Mr, Wat­
terson will also be the Junior 
representative of the College of in­
dustries on the Student Council. In 
tills position he will act as one of the 
assistant treasurers of the Student 
Council, along with the junior repre­
sentative from the other colleges. 
During the following year he will act 
as senior representative of his class..

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 20, 1928
• in Cortland, New York, Ralph G. 
Warner, who studied commercial art 
at Carnegie, has opened a commercial 
art studio. Here he has net up an cs- 
tabllshment lor making drawjngs and 
illustrations for reproduction work in 
tlie printing arts.
Since the art work for printing 
plates, require» special adaptation in 
accordance with mechanical reproduc­
tive processes, the studio represents 
the more modern uses of draughts­
manship In illustration, lettering and 
designing—in the making of steel en­
graving, lithograph, photo-engraving 
and in color processes printing and 
Icindrod, forms of graphic representa­
tion.
Among the company’s products are 
newspaper "cuts,” advertising cuts 
and the studio is also engaged in some 
publishing.
•Down in Virginia one of our alumni, 
George T. Bryson, has just met addi- 
ti.Opa,! success in the way of a promo­
tion to the position of inspector of 
agencies for the United States depart­
ment of the Sun Life Assurance Com­
pany of Canada. This comprises 
agencies in thirty-two states.
After attending Carnegie, Bryson 
served during the war as a lieutenant 
in the air corps lor two years. He 
then entered the Sun Company In the 
Virginia division, and served as solici­
tor iq Richmond, manager of the Nor- 
i’ollc agency, and for the last two years 
as agency assistant for the Virginia 
division. Mr. Bryson is widely known 
throughout the state of Virginia.
A young man who started out at 
Carnegie Tech as an engineer, but 
Who dropped his work, has become 
•well known in the Held, of stage set­
tings: ¦ Cleon Throckmorton, who took 
electrical research at Carnegie for a 
tipie, ' is: now well known as a de­
signer of stage settings.
His experience in landscape paint­
ing has helped him considerably in 
Ills'work/and he has designed the set­
tings Tor many well known stage pro­
ductions.
* hr hr gr gr f_igfi^ Tg^fH *
* Tp*fTpLiS oLfus hgH •
*:• Tlie Margaret Morrison Alum- ? 
nae Association Theater Party ? 
which was to have been held In • 
•!• the Little Theater in March has * 
•I* been postponed until sometime * 
•I* in May. The theater party is an * 
•J* annual event which is usually *
* held in the fall, but was this ? 
year to have been in March. * 
However, there were no dates •
•I’ available this month and a din- * 
•I* ner dance at the University Club * 
*;• is next month, the theater party * 
?I* will have to be held in May. ? 
•!* The date will be given in a later • 
•I* issue of the Tartan. «
Carnegie’s First Campus Queen is
t ^ , . _ _ . , * ALUMNI MEMBERS OF THENow Engaged in State Social Work;* Wher Whin theAue oDsec
"THE MADRAS HOUSE" IS 
STAGED BY DRAMA DEPT.
‘‘Tlie Madras House," by Harley 
Granville Barker, is the title of the 
yexl Little Theater production to be 
given the evenings of March 23 to 29 
and April 11 to 13. The stnging of the 
play ¡Us under the capable direction of
B.Ijlen Payne.
‘‘The Madras House” should be of 
•yper^al interest to the students, In 
that it RT one of the newest of modern 
productions, and is being read by Dr. 
McLood’s class of dramatic literature 
in Margaret Morrison and Fino Arts.
II Is a play which is exprése i ve of the 
r'nodoru iiondopcy in dramatic composi­
tion and is a deviation from the old 
viiles , of play wrjjuhg. Tho play Is 
characterized by the deliberate omis­
sion of a plot. Problems and dllllcul- 
t.ioH facing inhibited womanhood of 
this generation are treatod by Barker 
with ffoat skill and understanding. 
Tills treatment also introduces tho 
ijuostlon of the domestic women and 
Hie women of the industrial world. In 
tfhort the play Is a discussion of tho 
woman movement In Its widest aspect. 
However, It Is a problem that is not 
solved by woman’s attainment of her 
political freedom. To Barker, women 
avoitho plaiy things of men. ills Ideas 
are . more interesting and domnnd 
greater consideration than does tho 
action In this play. He has no regard 
tor plot. The interest is maintained 
throughout by the presentation of an 
unusually interesting group of charac­
ters, and brilliant and penetrating dia­
logue.
Harley Granville Barker is one of 
the most important of the dramatists 
that appeared in the development of 
the Independent Theater movement. 
Tie wrote plays for his own theater 
^between 1904-05 and 1908-09. He then 
•• started producing classics and modern 
plays. "The ..Madras House” is a re­
volt against the established technique 
<of the theater.
The following take their place in the 
oust: Margaret Wortz, Irene Tedrow, 
Jean Graham, Irma Wineberg, Ruth 
Aston, Helen Tenny, Irene Meermans, 
Josephine Copas, Helena Gregg, Don­
ald. Wilson, Herman Greenberg, Arna 
Bosen, Carleton Young, Walter 
Browne Rogers, Frank Sullivan, Gar- 
IandL Kerr and Donald McClure.
Ug^LiGui Qog^fi^sH fp
hgai SiAof gT^us .u^*f
(Continued From Page One.) 
lors are appearing. Such books as tho 
following- will be discussed:
“The Strange Interlude,’' by Eugene 
O’Neil; "My Life,” by Isadora Duncan; 
“Oisraolo,” by Andree Maurols; "Tho 
Bridge of San Luis Roy," by Thorn­
ton; "My Wife," by M. Bruner; 
“Wintersmoon" by Hugh Walpole; 
“Claire Ambler" by Booth Tarklng- 
ton; “The Spuealer" by Wallace; and
E
 sig^L fp SgLUi
mMcquIB *chOOl Of SMvcEvg
(b U^guG gLS .p^Ai* *f^iif* 
,, £v NhI _IMbN Of fIch Mvd TENN 
| ©esginners Monday and Friday \ i| Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and I 
¦| Saturday Evenings. Private lessons!f
by appointment. 1(Mayflower 7891
Alumnus Gives Lecture 
On Mexico and Mexicans
Captain James C. Sawders, a grad­
uate of Carnegie, has been giving an 
illustrated lecture at various schools, 
throughout the country. In his itin­
erary was included Carnegie Tech, 
Commercial Museum of Philadelphia 
and oyer forty high schools In West­
ern Pennsylvania. Captain Sawders 
is an olilcer In the Reserve Corps of 
Engineers. The following item sent 
to us by Gilmore Tllbrook of Philadel­
phia gives an idea of Captain Saw­
ders' lectures:
We had as guest speaker of the 
February 23 rd luncheon Captain 
James C. Sawders through the cour­
tesy of Mr. Gilmore L. Tilbroolc, whose 
guest he was while delivering a num­
ber of travelogue lectures here in the 
east.
Captain Sawders took his Thursday 
luncheon group on an hour’s tour of 
Mexico. He first showed the Indians, 
which constitute about nine million of 
the inhabitants of Mexico anil told 
much of their unfortunate and poverty 
ridden condition and the reason for 
the revolutions.
With motion pictures he took us to 
typical market towns of the high pla­
teau, surprising many of us by telling 
that central Mexico is a plateau rang­
ing from live to eight thousand feet 
above the sea and although this part 
of the country, is well within the 
tropics, an overcoat is comfortable 
after sundown at all seasons. Partic­
ularly pleasing were tlie motion pic­
tures of Xocliimilco, tho Mexican Ven­
ice. In this village all of the streets 
are waterways and here, just prior to 
Lent, every year Is held a wonderful 
water carnival or Mardi Gras. Equal­
ly Interesting were the pictures of tlie 
cities of Mexico, Puebla and Guadala- 
java.
Tho capital city, a metropolis of 
nearly one million. Is surprisingly 
modern and also beautifully situated 
in a. valley surrounded by some of tho 
highest mountain peaks on the con­
tinent.
Other very Interesting pictures were 
of Puebla and Its groat cathedral, the 
finest church In the Now World and 
Its plcturosque colonial buildings, etc.; 
of Guadalajava and the pottery in­
dustry, of Guanajauta and its famous 
cemetery and of tho Volcanos Popo- 
cateptl and Xltacihauwtl (The Sleep­
ing Lady).
This luncheon talk was one of the 
best of the year and the club mem­
bers who had an opportunity of hear­
ing Captain Sawders are Indebted to 
him for a very pleasant hour of travel.
Captain Sawders also gave a lecture 
at the Commercial Museum on Febru­
ary 25 and in several other eastern 
cities.
fWp gsohLu fp figU_
ho*uU .p^ ^i*f p. Hig^ 
gf Wg*_uLGfpL *ihuLg^H
Two of our graduates of the Music 
Department luive recently located at 
Washington Seminary, at least tem­
porarily. Due to the illness of Miss 
Schultze, who. is instructor in voice, 
violin and piano at the seminary, Al­
len Nern, ’27, has been engaged to 
teach voice for the remainder of the 
school year, and Marie Kleyle, ’25, will 
be the instructor in violin for the 
same period.
We are glad to hear of these alumni 
getting these positions, and hope that 
they may be stepping stones to great­
er successes.
"Death Comes for the Archbishop" by 
Willa Cather.
Poetry, criticisms, articles, short 
stories, and essays, and technical 
articles may be handed in for ap­
proval and possible publication.
For the second of the series of 
stories concerning our former Cam­
pus Week Queens we find another Jo. 
Josephine Whitney was Campus 
Queen in 1922. She was Carnegie's 
First Campus Queen which is a dis­
tinction in itself.
While in school Jo was very active 
in student affairs. In her freshman 
year she was a member of the Student 
Senate. In her sophomore year she 
was president of her class, a member 
of the Student Activities Board in her 
junior and senior years and also a 
member of the Social Workers’ Club, 
Y. W. C. A. board. She was a mem­
ber of the Campus Week committee 
and chairman of the senior ball com­
mittee. Then she was elected Cam-
] pus Queen. She graduated with third 
honor in scholastic standing and was 
| made the class alumna representative.
! She was enrolled in the Social Work 
Department.
For three years after graduating Jo 
was mçdical social worker at the 
Mercy Hospital. In the third year she 
was supervisor of the department. The 
i next year she worked in that capacity 
at the Presbyterian Hospital. She 
was in Florida at the time of the dis- 
I aster and aided in relief work.
Jo is now Western Pennsylvania 
field representative of the State De­
partment of Welfare and supervises 
credit work in state aided hospitals, 
j She Is still actively connected with 
! the school, being president of the Mar­
garet Morrison Alumnae Association.
_g^psS mi..i^*pLr e927,
iLGuLii^, signi* .p^ mpA
uL suAi^ugr Wi*f g.^uUg
Harold Jefferson, who graduated 
from Mechanical Engineering in 1927, 
sailed last Friday for Liberia, West 
Africa, to take up purchasing work 
for the Firestone Rubber Company.
Jefferson entered Carnegie in Sep­
tember, 1924, coming from Syracuse 
University with advanced standing, 
lie was a member of S. A. E. frater­
nity and a member of Theta Tan, hon­
orary engineering fraternity. It is 
noteworthy of Jefferson that he was 
entirely self-supporting while at Car­
negie.
With Jefferson are eight other men 
from the Firestone Company, who 
will look after the company’s interests 
in the Liberia district.
Although the freshmen living in the 
new men’s dormitory in Iowa State 
College were given practically a free 
hand in drafting the dormitory rules 
under which they would live, the boys 
voluntarily decided to start their eve­
ning study hour 30 minutes earlier 
than do Iowa State co-eds, whose 
r-jle« '«re. prescribed by the college.
.^i*_hiL fp AiGuL
T^iTg^gfupL *ppL .p^
gLLogs hg*Qoi^gSi
-I- Attention of the alumni mem- •
* bers of Clef Club is called to the - 
•J* fact that initiation of members ¦ 
*!• into Phi Mu Alpha, national mu- 1 
v sical honorary into which Clef •
* is being incorporated as a na- ¦ 
tional fraternity, will occur- at •
•I* 1:00 p. m. Sunday, March 25, in ¦
* the Little Theater of the Arts -
* Building. All those alumni who ¦ 
*!* are members of the Clef Club < 
?¦are invited to be initiated with ¦ 
?> the regular members into this
* fraternity.
500 Engineers Attend 
Concrete Course at C. I.T.
-C Con Uni ed From Page One.) r 
any frosli frosli who play musical in­
struments.
Last year' the Prom was'a tremen­
dous successs, despite the inclement 
weather. The lucky plebes were 
chosen first between 3i: 30 and1 12:30 
!n the local assemblies held in all 
four colleges. The Prom was held 
last year in room 218, Science; 104 
Industries; Assembly Hall, Margaret 
Morrison, and Little Theater/' The 
clown band; composed of the frosli 
members of the Kiltie Band, and other 
freshmen who played musical instru­
ments, led the parade of the greatest 
collection of freaks ever assembled at 
one place. Headless men, double 
men, dancers and coal miners, ghosts, 
j skeletons, goblins and others even 
j more terrible. This year’s Prom will 
j no doubt see a replica of all these 
strange sights.
Five hundred engineers have al­
ready registered for the short course- 
in Design and Control of Concrete 
Mixtures. Any other students or 
alumni who would be interested in 
taking this short course may do so'by 
notifying Professor F. M. McCullough, 
Carnegie Tech. This is necessary in 
order to make ample arrangements.
Arrangements have been made by 
this company co-operating with Car­
negie to hold a third short course in 
the design and control of concrete 
mixtures. Tlys course consists of 
three sessions, Monday. Wednesday 
and Thursday evenings, March 19, 21 
and 22. Sessions held in the Carnegie 
j Union, and begin promptly at 7:30 p.
| m„ continuing for about three hours 
| each evening. The lectures and dem- 
j onstrations will be in charge of J. W. 
j Kelly of the Research Laboratory of 
j the Portland Cement Association. Mr. 
¡Kelly is well known to-many Pitts- 
| burgli engineers, having conducted the 
; short courses given in 1926 and 1927 
| at Carnegie.
CLAN NEWS
T_usgSisT_ug
The Philadelphia Clan had an excel­
lent party last Friday night, March 16, 
in fact, it was one of the best affairs 
ever staged by the alumni of Phila­
delphia. It was a St. Patrick’s Day- 
party, and about fifty alumni took ad­
vantage of the opportunity to .get to­
gether with the gang.
First of all there was a short bus­
iness meeting in one of the private 
rooms of the club. That’s- right, I 
didn’t tell you where it was. The 
party was held at the Brookline 
Square Club, in the suburbs of Philly.
The clan had a large table reserved 
for itself and partook of a meal put 
up by one of the best caterers in Phil­
adelphia. The clan then had the op­
portunity of witnessesing some profes­
sional dancing and a professional 
fashion show. In addition, the mem­
bers enjoyed dancing on a wonderful 
dance «floor; to some very good music, 
from seven until midnight.
ng^*ufH
| After a two years absence from the j Athletes have a lower scholastic 
campus, baseball is to be reinstated j average than the ordinary student, 
as a major sport at the University of according to investigations by the 
| Nebraska.__________________________ | Carnegie Institute of Technology.
On April 16 the Varsity Clan will 
resume its social activities with a 
theater party at the Pitt theater. 
After the very successful Varsity Clan 
Day celebration, the members are 
looking forward to another pleasant 
gathering;
The clan will have many guests on 
this evening. First of all will be the 
members of the football, basket ball, 
track and other major sport teams. 
The Varsity Clan entertains the vari­
ous teams each year in some way, and 
has chosen the theater party this year. 
In addition several* other features are 
planned for the evening in addition to 
the piay, which also promises to be a 
good one. However, the details must 
be left for a future date.
Tickets for undergraduates will be 
on sale in about ten days, and it is 
expected that April 16 will witness a 
typical Carnegie Tech gathering at the 
Pitt. Watch the Tartan for further 
details.
OVER. 2,8 BILLION CHESTERFIELDS 
SMOKED I IM 1927
(Only a few years back, you’ll remember, it was 7 billion)
A 300% JOCHEASE
SUCH POPULARITY 
MUST BE DESERVED!
THEY SATISFY and yet THEY'RE MILD
Liggett & Myers Tohacco Co.
Tgf^pLuZi po^ gSni^fu*i^*
ROOMMATES ARE GOING UPBy FRANK RE!’ * l
r-> OlO You GET 
\ Soop. Roo AAS POP*. *- 
\ MEVt VE Mi VET?—‘ AREtAT You GoiNíGpTo Raot 
VJiTV-t HECVoR. agamm V*
UT1U|
Y

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 20, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
he opened
Pandy Land
R2e4 TiLL gniLoiig*f suAi^fH
.^ouf gLS Lof p^ *_iss iGG*
LMFIB puN Ov fbII Of chMbgIr
Delivered Anywhere.
ANDERD1LT 
RUTGERS 
U • KANSAS 
¡'ORDII AM ) ¦ OBERLIN 
DUCK NULL 
ARQUETTE 
\DA‘ 
AER
Cl’.NTRK • GRINNELL • DE 
Í^&CKY ’ LOYOLA AMI 
K%^|SS1PPI - MISSOURI • Nl 
^ Ifr.TE • DICKINSON PIT 
^T^VNSAS • ARIZONA • W' YO
WESLEY AM,, 
LEHIGH • L%j 
STEVENS • V 
nvashinctm! 
DETRjj^^^ 
M I
This Shield Identifies 
w- aJluthenlic 
ADIIY2Y 3MII MWWMSTI
Y AL ™
COLUN
LELANl
GLORC gsjoBH anTtX AsjsÏÏBi^ t
DOW
TULA!^^r,YNIY1L1DVER
LEHIG®» r AI
NVYXY36GMS
NVASHH§|ffl ON I 
DETRo||gS ¦>] 
M I T A M
UMXYSPB0. 9 
MIDDLE^ Y • Ï 
DETHV«; 
ROCHPS-fER 1 
WISCONSIN - I
|l aiFORr' ccstcd to university men, who ,RK
FIDA ID , , . . RN8r WCS.C are homeward bound tor ,1T.
|j jTAim- their Easter vacation and who er*
n 2SFtt strive for authenticitv in their 'A*.
I LOYO apparel. ' AM| 'PI • MIS3 1 1 LIN
| I DiCKih with two YII
| ou m ari trousers
i • WYOi ^ . I)AJ ase ¦ 'w Cralnwcavc Stripe« ,tK3 bright and Diagonal. ,TAj ta • knc Wyld-Weaves : Auto-T-wlst* *nd 
I MEXICO • 1 ON
f b M A ' ............. II. I in. ...................ilCE.
oGV3 AplkaRdp 9 ilRdRis 9 ekhi3bPeiPld 9 bpg pe3 
!tgPlgRai 9 paaPv3Pds 9 gpsakl 9 okeikd 9 ghAudPaa
J.A. Leonard Speaks 
In Seminar March 14sMusic Notes
P.R.R. Bridge Engineer Gives 
Problem Talk Explaining- 
With Slides
At the last group meeting of the i 
Civil Engineering Department which 
was at the Seminar class 011 Wednes-1 
day, March 14, Mr. J. A. Leonard of | 
the Pennsylvania Railroad delivered 
a very interesting, illustrated lecture 
on railroad construction work. Mr. 
Leonard is the engineer of bridges and 
buildings for the Pennsylvania Rail­
road and the title of his talk was, 
“A Page from a Bridge Engineer's 
Notebook.’* Mr. Leonard has had 
much experience in this field and was 
very capable of delivering such a 
lecture. The program consisted 
chiefly of slides illustrating the work 
of a particular job and explanation of 
these slides by Mr. Leonard.
The particular job under discussion 
was the new railroad bridge over the 
Wabash River at Terre Haute, In­
diana. This bridge is to accommodate 
a double-track road, and is to replace 
the present single-track now in use. 
The bridge is to be ready for use in 
the next two or three weeks.
In this ltecture Mr. Leonard followed 
the process of construction, first dis­
cussing the methods of obtaining per­
mits then the deciding of the type and 
size of the structure, and finally the 
actual construction work. A great 
deal of political red tap lias to be gone 
through before such a permit can be 
obtained. A permit is issued by the 
Secretary of War who first has to 
have an Enobling Act from Congress. 
All plans must be presented and dis­
cussed with this department. After 
the federal permit has been obtained 
it is also necessary to have a state 
permit; If the new road falls upon a 
county line, a county permit is neces­
sary. If upon entering a city a cer­
tain street has to be crossed, another 
permit has to be obtained, and lastly, 
if the new route crosses the Big Four 
line, the Pennsylvania Company has 
to enter an agreement with the 
officials of this company. These 
points were discussed to show a few 
of the political difficulties a company 
sometimes lias in the building of some 
structure.
To determine the type of footings 
needed, a series of borings were made 
in the river and on shore. These 
borings were made, to rock so that a 
complete picture was had of the. land 
down to solid rock. Since the cost 
eliminated any footings to solid rock 
the engineers were forced to decide 
between pilings or caissons sunk to 
a depth where gravel capable of sup­
porting the load was found. The 
caisson, plan was finally decided upon 
and rather than specifying any cer­
tain depth, these caissons were sunk 
to the.proper depth.
The foundation being complete the 
next task was to place the huge steel 
trusses on these footings. Since 
these trusses were 125 feet long and 
weighed 70 tons and since they had 
to be set in place with a crime having 
at least a seventy-foot beam, a unique 
engineering problem presented itself 
because the largest cranes available 
were capable of a load of only a little 
over 35 tons. The contractor who 
received this contract devised a plan 
by which he used two 35 ton cranes 
ior this job.
After the lecture a short business 
meeting was held and the department 
decided to hold a banquet as their 
annuairsocial affair.
At *g^g ir WpLSi^* 
hMbch 22r
Mme. Amelita Galli-Curci, return­
ing to Pittsburgh after an absence of 
more than two years, appeared in a 
concert in Syria Mosque Thursday 
evening. Her program featured sev­
eral favorite operatic arias, including 
“Come per me sereno.” from Belini’s 
“Sonnambula,” and "Qui la voce,” 
from Puritani, with flute obligato. 
This concert marked the close of the 
May Beegle series.
hMbch 24r
Dr. Charles Heinroth has been giv­
ing a series of talks on Saturday even­
ings during Lent at S:15 o’clock in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. These lectures 
have been taking the place of the 
usual Saturday organ recitals.
The subjects and dares for Dr. Hein- 
rotli’s two remaining Lenten lectures 
are:
March:24—American Folk Music.
March 31—A Great French Sym­
phony (Cesar Franck).
Major General George S. Gibbs, 
chief signal officer of the United 
States army, was in Ann Arbor to in­
spect the work of the. Signal Corps 
R. O. T. C. unit at the University re­
cently.
OAKLAND’S 
RESTAURANT 
—for— 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
hMbch 25r
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orches­
tra will give a concert Sunday even­
ing, March 25, at' the Syria Mosque. 
Elias Breeskin will conduct. The pro­
gram will include Beethoven’s Fifth 
Symphony, Prelude to the Meister- 
singer by Wagner, and 1S12 Overture 
by Tscliailcowsky. The guest; artist 
will be Margaret Matzenauer, contral­
to of the Metropolitan Opera Com­
pany.
March 26.
Mme. Schumann-Heink, who gave 
her golden jubilee concert in Pitts­
burgh last year, returns for one more 
concert, and on Monday night, March 
26, under the local direction of May 
Beegle. She will sing her farewell 
concert at Syria Mosque. Mme Schu- 
mann-Heink has been coming to Pitts­
burgh for 25 years. Florence Harde­
man, a favorite violinist with Scliu- 
manh-Heink audiences, and Katherine 
Hoffman, Mme. Scliumann-Heink’s ac­
companist for many years, will be her 
associates for the concert.
Program.
Mitrane Aria ..........,......................Rossi
Before the Crucifix................La Forge
Die Forelle.....................Franz Schubert
Die Allmacht................Franz Schubert
Mme. Schumann-Heink 
Finale from Concerto in E Minor...
...................................... Mendelssohn
Miss Hardeman
Die drei Zigeuner..............Franz Liszt
Ulaltraute’s Narrative from Götter­
dämmerung ......................... Ulogner
Uliegenlied ..............Johannes Brahms
Ich Liebe Dick...............................Grieg
Frühlingszeit .........................R. Becker
Mme. Schumann-Heink
What the Swallows Told...................
................................... Cecil Burleigh
Hills.................................Cecil'Burleigh
Scherzo Tarantelle .. . .. .Ulieniawski 
Miss Hardeman
Down in the Desert..........Gilbert Ross
Pirate Dreams .........................I-Iuerter
Down in the Forest.. .London Ronald
Kerry Dance...................J'. L. Malloy
Taps..................... . Arr. by Rasternack
March 29.
Mme. Schumann-Me in k 
By Special Request____“The Erkling”
Wave of American Pessimism Due
To Large Overdoses of “Sob-stuff"
When the city editor tells the re­
porter to "stuff it with heart-interest,” 
when the motion picture producer 
tells the scenario writer to “cram it 
with sob-stuff,” when the advertising 
copy chief tells the ad writer to “play 
the harp.” when the book and maga­
zine publisher tells the noted author 
to “emote”—of what is this indica­
tive? The obvious answer—that we 
Americans want to cry and sympa­
thize—is not entirely flie true one. 
Indeed, how many of us really want to 
cry, considering the circumstances us­
ually connected with this activity?
There is another reason to ascribe 
to this by no means modern proposi­
tion of flipping the heart strings. We 
seem to have reached the point, in 
this great century, where pitiful situa­
tions excuse everything — inaccurate 
news reports, forlorn movies,'unread­
able advertisements and sick litera­
ture. Pity has taken the. center of 
the stage and defies all else. A curi­
ous twist of the human mind is re­
sponsible for this tendency of lipping 
the heart strings. It is what we like 
to ca.Il "understanding," yet in reality, 
the average person does anything but 
understand * * * and why? Simply 
because lie does not know in the flesh 
the object or subject of the “sob” sit­
uations.
I doubt if I am unfair when I main­
tain that the pitiful scenes, to which 
millions of Americans are subjected 
each day, are very much exaggerated. 
Pity, unlike its “side-kick,” humor, 
cannot be subtle or refined. Instead, 
pity must be applied "thick” so that 
the entire audience can become an 
interested group, and shed its tears 
en masse. It is accordance with this 
principle that the motion pictures 
have played the ace, only'to have it 
trumphed by . the opposition. Within 
the past few months, several entirely
over-acted and over-timed “sob'’ 
scenes on the screen have caused the 
audiences of which I was a part to 
giggle and laugh completely. Humor, 
while it can be wonderfully subtle and 
effective in this manner, can also be 
sad when handled indiscriminately. 
When one sees an exorbitant number 
of custard pies being heaved at the 
comedian, sympathy sets in at once. 
The reverse is equally true of pity.
YALE • HARVARD • PRINCETON • DARTMOUTH • CORNELL • PENNSYLVANIA 
COLUMBIA • SYRACUSE • DROWN • SWARTHMORE TUFTS • KNOX • ALADAMA
LELAND STANFORD • CALIFORNIA • COLCl 1 ' 1 ......................1..............................."JOEL A WARE
' GEORGETOWN • FLORIDA • IDAHO • GEij cflppcintmC/lt II WESTER N
: ILLINOIS • INDIANA • PURDUE • DUTLI 
TEXAS • tENNESSEE • UTAH • VERMON 
BOWDOIN 
TULA Nil
Americans seem to regard to me­
dians. An over-production of pity, as 
well might be expected, is upon us. 
Professional flippers of the heart­
strings work day and night, it ap­
pears, thinking up news, movies, ads 
and literature with sufficient "heart- 
interest,” so that the country can be 
pitiful at will. Consequently, hand­
kerchief makers have been forced to 
produce the, ’kerchiefs of extra-thick 
material at double-quick time. Smiling 
in public is rapidly becoming taboo. 
Optimistic citizens are looked upon as 
radicals. "Panics and hard times” is 
the call of the day. And why are 
these things so?
They are so simply because Amer­
icans, being served with extra por- 
tiohs of pity, have .become self-pitving 
and consequently very pessimistic. 
Why will any business man tell you lie 
doesn’t expect to do last year's volume 
this year? Because he is sorry, sorry 
for himself * * * lie is flipping his own 
heart strings because every true 
American loves to imitate * * * even 
other people’s pity!
It appears, then, that our capacity 
for "understanding” is being sorely 
taxed by this epidemic. This business 
of flipping the heart strings probably 
has its,rightful place, but in turning 
us all into pessimists, it has reached 
its limit. The reckoning doom ap­
proaches * * * stand aside!
STANLEY L. CAHN.
University Men 
Homeward Bound 
Eor Easter
C
OLLEGE HALL HY- 
ROLL suits are sug­
gested to university men, who 
are homeward bound for 
their Easter vacation and who 
strive for authenticity in their 
apparel.
with two trousers
Grainweave Stripes and Diagonals 
Wvld-Wcave* • Auta-Twlsts
adFneh fHDsyeHu
hIv'B *NObI—.EfNh .lO
groups of storm imitators. Of the five 
movements one fancied most the lusty 
allegro with its folk flavor and the 
lovely shepherd’s' song. The sym­
phony was played with great elegance 
and polish.
The second half of the program was 
a little more pleasing. The pieces by 
Pizetti were beautifully modern. They 
make a gorgeous suite, and of the 
three the outstanding movement was 
the ravishing second with its dissolv­
ing cromatics.
For a closing number Debussy’s 
symphonic sketches, "La Mer” were 
used. They have been given here be-, 
fore and have been much admired. 
There was a glorious shimmer to the
gLLogs _phi UpLUi^f
gLS SgLUi fp Ai _isS
.^uSgH LuG_f, hg^U_ 28
first aquarelle, and. the dialogue of the 
wind and sea was done in a fanciful 
manner.
It has been a long time since we 
have heard a finer concert than that j 
given last night, and it is with rejoic­
ing that we read that Toscanini is to 
come next year with the same orches­
tra.
The Student Council at Ursinus 
College plays no favorites. Recently 
the president of the college and two 
prol’essoss were hailed before the 
court charged with violating a school 
rule prohibiting walking on the grass. 
They pleaded guilty and were fined 
one dollar each.
(Continued From Page One.) 
cured from Mr. Walter Scott, manager 
of the Men's Club, or from any mem­
ber of either club. An order blank 
will be fonrnl 011 the Alumni Page for 
those who wish to secure their tickets 
by mail.
The general chairman of the Con­
cert and dance is Wilbur A. Scott, a 
senior in the Department of Music, 
and the composer of the now "Car­
negie Tech March”. He Is being as­
sisted In the concert arrangements 
by Robert Boyd, Paul Brautigam, Wal­
ter Sickles, and Miss Dorothy ltoy, 
manager of the Women’s Club. The 
dance is being arranged by Carl Frey, 
Jamoa Robertson, Charles Shotts and 
Misses Pendleton Scully and Helen 
Ward.
Tgf^pLuZi po^ gSni^fu*i^*
.poLSi^'* SgH AgLQoif u*
_isS AH T_u *uGhg agTTg
The Phi Sigma Kappa celebrated 
Founder’s Day by its annual banquet 
last Thursday evening at the Pitts­
burgh Athletic Association. Duke La- 
lean, regional vice president, acted as 
toastmaster and presented many witty 
and entertaining speakers. The Pitts­
burgh Club of Phi Sigma Kappa alum­
ni, located here, and consisting of over 
a hundred members, was well repre­
sented at the banquet, and twenty-six 
active members l’rom Carnegie Tech 
took advantage of this ¡opportunity oX 
meeting alumni brdthei's.
huU_uGgL SgusH
Robert E. Caster, '29,,.ban bqen sus­
pended from the University. for two» 
years and William Gh Nlcolayson, '28, 
has boen suspended for the remainder' 
of the semester for violation of the* 
automobile ban, it was announreri 
recently from the office of |.bo clean 
of students.
A11 orchestra, of 30 pieces selected 
from among the local symphony or­
chestra will take part in the perform­
ance of Father Rossini's oratorio, 
"The Son of Man,” to be given by the 
Pittsburgh Polyphonic Choir in Car­
negie Musit Hall, March 29. John 
Sedlacek, organist of Epiphany 
Church, is in charge of the orchestral 
arrangement of the work and will pre­
side at the organ on the night of the 
performance:-
DASCHBACH’S
3808-10 Forbes Street
ho*uU U^ufuUu*h
mOI Ar TMNNIbBOvr
Arturo Toscanini sent many a thrill { 
through the audience last Friday night ‘ 
when he conducted the New York 
Philharmonic Orchestra at the Syria 
Mosque. He came with a highly gift- j 
ed body, a pliant, accomplished and 
capable symphony and he gave not 
only, dynamic readings but many lus­
trous and finished passages.-
It was refreshing to hear Bee­
thoven’s “Pastoral” again, as the land­
scape that Beethoven pictures seems 
rather flat and unending. When he 
wrote that “Tunderstorm” movement, 
heavens for large
.u^*f U_o^U_ p. U_^u*f, *UuiLfu*f 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Announces Two
FREE LECTURES ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
------by-------
mp_L issu* *iphgL, Ur *r, p. UghA^uSGi, hg**r Member of the Board of Lectureship of The Mother Church,
The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
.^uSgH iniLuLG, hg^U_ 23, gf 8:e5 P. hr 
*gfo^SgH g.fi^LppL, hg^U_ 24r gf 3 P. hr
Uhubch idEfEcI 
UsHSi *f^iif Lig^ .u.f_ gniLoi 
UMbB 73 Ob 7R 
The Public is Cordially Invited to Attend.
R. L. Jewett says—
“In 1915 I was graduated from St. 
Lawrence University. At that time, 
like many other college seniors, I 
had no definite idea of the kind 
of work 1 would follow. After 
making two false startswhich offer­
ed but little promise for the future, 
I was told of the S. S. Kresge Com­
pany’s system of promotion. I was 
convinced that thiy'work was in­
teresting and offered a ical future, 
so I applied and started in the 
stock roomoftheProvidencestore. 
Here, I found myself working with 
men ofmyownage, splendid asso­
ciates who were all enthusiastically 
working for advancement and se­
curing promotion rapidly. After 
my period of training I was put 
in charge of a small store and since 
then 1 have been promoted to 
larger stores.
With the company expanding as 
lapidly as it is today, I believe that 
the opportunities it now affords 
»re the best in its history. There 
is still ample opportunity for my 
future advancement, which of 
of course will depend on my own 
effort and ability.”
How would you like to Manage a Kresge Store ?
K
RESGE Store Managerships are positions of trust and re­
sponsibility—dignified positions that carry incomes far above 
the average. "Wherever .there is a Kresge Store the Manager of 
that store is looked upon as an outstanding example of a success­
ful business man—and yet he is usually a young man, perhaps 
just a few years out of college.
"We now have a few opportunities open for college men to train 
for positions of this kind. The men we choose will be men of 
ambition and foresight—those who are willing to start in a modest 
way—work hard and put in long hours. To men of this caliber the 
Kresge Company offers a future limited only by their own ability.
If you think you can qualify, write to our Personnel Department 
today. A graduate of your own college who has already become 
a successful store manager with us will arrange a meeting with you 
and tell you all about our training plan.
PERSONNEL DEPT.5
S S KRESGE CO
5-10-25C. STORES ' - <• 25c. to $1.00 STORES
KRESGE DETROIT BUILDING

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 20, 1928
TECH
Barber Shop
UOFplINO BIbvEcI fOb sMdEIB 
Mvd GIvNlIFIvr
4531 Forbes Street 
Near Craig
hMtflOwIb 2838
Opened for Business January 14th, 1928 
Statement February 28th, 1928
RESOURCES
Cash on Hand and in Banks.................$ 262,234.75
Loans and Discounts............................. 87,1(54.61
Bonds and Securities ............................ 1,507,050.65
Other Assets........................................... 39,747.12
$1,896,197.13
LIABILITIES
Capital ....................................................$ 300,000.00
Surplus ................................................. 300,000.00
Deposits ................................................ 1,293,273.89
Other Liabilities.................................. 2,923.24
$1,896,197.13
We wish to thank our depositors an'd friends for 
their co-operation in making possible the remarka­
ble growth of this institution.
Forbes National Bank
“Your Home Bank”
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
DR. TAYLOR AD DRESS ED|IND. SMOKER PLANS 
FACULTY MEETING MAR. 6 NEAR COMPLETION
AS 24th DRAWS NEAR
Registration Statistics Show That Many
Attend College Near Home First Year:
A pleasant and profitable hour and 
a. half-were spent on Tuesday after­
noon, March 6/by those who attended 
the meeting of the C. I. T, Chapter of 
ilie American Association of Univer­
sity Professors.
Following a social time refresh­
ments were served, the meeting was 
called to order by the President of the 
Chapter, Dr. Nathanson. In the ab­
sence of the regular secretary, Miss 
Canfield, the President, requested Miss 
lOdith Winchester to serve as tempor­
ary secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting 
wore read and the reports of several 
committees were given. Dr. W. XI. 
Taylor, the speaker of the afternoon, 
was introduced. Dr. Taylor is Pro­
fessor of Chemistry and Head of the 
Department of Chemistry of St. John’s 
College, -Shanghai, and now 011 leave 
of absence ponding the re-opening of 
the college in September, 1928. 
v He spoke on certain educational 
aspectfj of the Chinese Problem. Dr. 
Taylor’s remarks enabled the hearers 
to gain a clearer insight into tlie Chi­
nese character and the attitude of 
the Chinese toward foreign influence.
The members of the Association 
were honored to have Director Breed 
and Associate Director Leighou pres­
ent at the meeting. Director Broed 
ponred tea during the social hour.
II. was announced by the Program 
Committee that .May 10 will be the 
date for the annual meeting of the 
Chapter. This meeting is,always well 
attended. The election of officers for 
the following year will take place at 
this meeting. At this particular meet­
ing Dr. Avinoi'f, Curator of the Car­
negie -Museum, will speak 011 Russian 
Art. Members of the Chapter are re­
quested to kindly hold this date in 
reserve.
Committee in Charge of Affair 
Working Hard to Bring 
About Gala Night
The anual industries smoker will ' 
be held Saturday, March 2'4, in the | 
Union. All Science and Industries 
men as well as alumni of these schools 
are privileged to attend this worth­
while event. Tickets are 50 cents and j 
will be obtainable ¡ill week from In-1 
en! Thq. committee In 
ge of the smoker is headed by
dustries men! The. committee -in.| 
charge of th 
James B. Hughes, and the ticket sain I 
j by Howard Y. Dowhower. Harvey 
White is in charge of the Building 
j Construction Department stunt; Wil- 
j liam M. McNeil, the Printing Depan. I 
I merit stunt; John W. Lemon, the 
I Works Management stunt; and John j 
j McNair, the Alpha Tau stunt. The 
1 faculty will offer its annual presen la. 1 
| lion. Each department is working ; 
j hard to win the cup, offered for the j 
I best stunt, and all promise to be i 
¡ novel and interesting. In addition to j 
I he stunts offered by the several de- 
‘ partments arrangements have been ; 
j for a movie. There will be refresh- ' 
i ments. ,
Alpha Tau, the honorary Industries [ 
! fraternity, will make a call at the i 
smoker.
J A popularity contest to determine 
the most popular Industries senior! 
will be held in connection with the'| 
smoker. Voting for the most popular 
senior will take place Wednesday 
noon and the winner will be an­
nounced at the smoker.
Registration statistics of Carnegie, 
for the past five years have. verified 
the statement that the college student 
living away from an educational cen­
ter is spending the first year or two 
at a college near home. Instead of 
going away from home for four years, 
many are taking their freshman year 
at a school nearer their homes and 
later going to the larger and more 
complete colleges in order to special­
ize in courses not offered in a small 
college. This has resulted in a sav­
ing in expenditures for a college 
education and apparently without a 
loss of time.
In comparison with an increase of 
only 7 per cent in the number of 
freshmen registered in the last five 
years, there is an increase of 68 per 
cent in the number of advanced stu­
dents entering Carnegie. In 1923 594 
freshmen registered and 95 were ad­
mitted with advanced standing. In 
1927 632 freshmen and 160 advanced 
standing students were admitted. 
From 1923 lu^l’925, the advanced stu­
dents that entered Industries college 
were doubled, in Margaret Morrison 
they increased 122 per cent, in Arts 
College the increase was 40 per cent, 
and in Engineering College the num­
ber of advanced standing students i 
increased 27 per cent.
The largest number of new upper 
class students is enrolled in the Col- j 
lege of Engineering which increased I 
tiie percentage of new advance stu- j 
dents to its entire new enrollment! 
I from 14.3 per cent in 1923 to 20.7 per 
I cent in 1927, from 43 to 55. Mar- 
| garet Morrison College has the largest 
j rate of increase as the advanced rat- 
| ing students in 1923 were 10.7 per 
I cent of the total and in 1927 the group 
I formed 27.6 per cent of the total new 
enrollment. The ratio of new ad­
vanced standing students to freshmen 
is greatest in Arts College where they 
are 27.6 per cent of the total.
The 160 students which form the 
group of new students admitted with 
advanced standing come from 88 col­
leges in different parts of the United 
States and one from the Industrial 
College of Shantung. New students 
now enrolled in Arts College come 
from 32 other colleges. .Thirty-four 
colleges were attended by tl\e new 
students in the Engineering College. 
Students from 26 colleges enrolled in 
Margaret Morrison for the first time 
last year, and eleven colleges were at­
tended by new students of Industries 
College.
Easter Delivery 
Guaranteed
at SKIBO INN
Tues. and Wed., Mar. 20-21 
Today and Tomorrow
$29.50$34.50
Agsfuhp^i
SPRING PLANS OF R.0.T.C.! INTER-GREEK FORMAL |KFFP FRATFRNITIES larchon of tl,e fraternity, and General 
INCLUDE DRILLS, REVIEW: WAS BIG SUCCESS FRlJ QUTOF P0LITICS--PECK ! Wllbur GaH>raith ""as-toastmaster.
I Dr. Baker Goes to London 
In Coal Meet Interests
WphiL’* Gsii UsoA Guni
UpLUi^f uL pgasgLS U_o^U_
Last Tuesday evening, tlie Women's 
Glee Club gave a concert at the Oak­
land Methodist Episcopal Church. 
The entertainment was held under the 
auspices of Kappa Phi, an organiza­
tion of. Methodist Episcopal students 
from Pitt, Pennsylvania College for 
Women, and Carnegie. The concert 
was well attended and the perform­
ance equally as successful as that 
given last year by the Women’s Glee 
Club at the Emory Methodist Episco­
pal Church. ,
^inr hciWgL fp *Tiga
gf U_gTis pL hg^Uu^u 27
On March 27 from 11:30 to 12:00 
the last chapel before Easter Vaca­
tion, and possibly the last one of the 
year, will be held in the little theater 
of the Arts School. The speaker for 
the meeting will be Rev. W. L. Me- 
Rwan, D. D., who is pastor of the Third 
Presbyterian Church. Professor Den- 
11 Ison will preside as usual. All ef­
forts are being used to procure the 
Girls’ Glee Club for the performance 
in the place of the usual solo.
The. attendance has, as a whole, 
Tiorm improving since tho Inauguration 
of the new hour, This Increase is ex- 
l>oetod to continue at tho next chapel.
Poetry Contest is Open 
To Students At Carnegie
With the advent of spring, which Last Friday night the fraternity 
brings baseball training season, spring men met for their annual dance—the 
fever and disagreeable weather comes | Inter-fraternity Formal. Nothing was
lacking to make the affair a completealso the resumption of drill for the 
R1: O. T. C. students. Each Thursday, 
if one watches the campus, the vari-
success. Fletcher Henderson and his 
boys struck up their first tune at
The South Review Magazine is 
opening a Poetry Contest which is 
open to any undergraduate student in 
an American College. A prize of $100 
is offered for the best poem submitted. 
The conditions* to which the author 
must hold are:
1. There is no restriction upon
form 01* subject.
3. The poem or group of poems
submitted must not exceed one hun- 
| dred lines in length.
I 3. Three typewritten, copies of;
every manuscript must be submitted*: 
I 4. All manuscripts should be ad-
1 dressed to .the Southwest Review, care 
I of Southern Methodist University.
! Dallas, Texas.
i 5. Manuscripts must be In the
! hands'' oi' tho editors of the Review be- 
I fore May 1, 1928.
j The poem given first place by tho 
jury of award will be published in tho 
Summor number of the Review, 'pie 
editors reserve- all rights to publish 
I any other poem submitted upon* pay­
ment of usual rates.
We wonder if the«, only reason un- 
| dortakors go to football games is to 
watch ’em kick off.
ous companies may be seen pacing nine-thirty, and by ten the floor was 
the streets with a somewhat regular I covered with whirling, happy couples, 
cadence, each intent 011 winning the 1 The “first call” for supper came at a 
coveted “guidon” which is presented i few minuteSX after ten, and from then 
to the-best drilled company at the end I 011 till one, victuals of the choicest 
of the year' The, Engineers are out I sort were available. All this time 
for the Signal Corps’ blood ill Is year, I Fletclier’.s. baton left nothing to be 
for last year the Signal company { desired in the way it brought forth the 
wrested the banner from Company A j best of jazz from his .Stompers. 
of tlie Engineers. There are seven j Screams of delight and other ex-
Stressing the point that any stu­
dent should refrain from bringing his 
fraternity into school activities and 
athletics, arid that at Carnegie the 
college comes first and the fraternity 
second, Robert Peck, former football 
star and captain of the undefeated 
Pitt 1916 team, addressed the mem- j
more drill days between now and the 
competitive drill and the six com­
panies are being drilled intensively
clamations of joy were heard from 
the girls as the favors were distrib­
uted. At 2:00 a. m. the orchestra
According to most recent reports, 
Dr. Thomas S. Baker arrived in Lon­
don immediately following the . deliv- 
bers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, national j ery of his last lecture in Paris Wed- 
social fraternity, at a dinner and j nesday, March 14. Dr. Baker does
smoker at the Pittsburgh Athletic As- > nQt plan tQ deliver a iectUre series in
sociation Friday evening in commem- , -i w . , .
orating the seventy-second anniver-! Londo"' but 11 ,s hls Intention la
sary oi the founding of the fraternity. | going ls make arrangements for 
Pitt, Carnegie - Tech, Penn State, j the Second International Conference 
Allegheny and Dartmouth College | on Bituminous Coal which will be were represented at the affair. Other j
speakers were F. Gibson Hobbs of jheld at Carnegie Institute of Teen-
I»- their officers, each with the expec-; played "Home. Sweet Home." theLynchburg, Va., past eminent supreme
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECOND IIANI? |
CLOTHES
1534 Contrai AvenueJLÜIÍ4 uontra
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST
*UuiLfu*f 
UsHSi *f^iif, Tuff*Ao^G_
SUNDAY SERVICES 
ee A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9.
*chIvlct ee25
Standard Cleaning - 
Dyeing Co., Inc.
*NMvdMbd *IbvEcI *MNEBfEIBr 
iXTi^f* pL sgSui*’ 
Gg^hiLf* 
pffEcI Mvd UlIMvEvg TlMvN: 
702 ^iAiUUg gniLoi 
WusauL*Ao^G 
AbMvch pffEcI 
4525 .p^Ai* *f^iif 
pgasgLS
tation of being winner. Last year the 
captain of the winning company was 
presented with a fine engraved saber 
All of the captains are hopeful of 
their chances and much speculation is 
in process as to the probable outcome. 
This year for the first time the Piebes 
are in companies by themselves, and 
it is no secret that the upperclassmen 
will be hard put to it to show a bel­
ter drill than that of the Piebes.
Before the big day of the compel!; j 
tion there will be at least one formal ' 
review. More of these parades would 
be staged but insufficient time would 
be left to properly drill the-compan­
ies. After the- drill is over for the ) 
year and school is out, a great many I 
of the upperclassmen are by no means I 
Ihrough with their military efforts for 
the year. Summer R. O. T. C. camps ¦ 
open' on June 15, and will call some 
forty or fifty men from Carnegie. 
Those men are at present in the pro­
cess of receiving their “shots" for 
typhoid fever, and being vaccinated 
for smallpox. These shots are respon­
sible for quite a few sore arms seen 
around tho campus lately. Each man 
receives three shots and one can 
nover tell which one will be produc­
tive of a sore arm. Strict physical 
examinations are also giveri these 
men before they go to camp.
This summor the R. O. T. C. depart­
ment hopes to have a full Carnegie 
Platoon at Fort Humphreys, so that it 
will not be ‘¦necessary to fill'up the 
vacancies with men from other 
schools.. The. Engineer Camp is lo­
cated at Fort Humphreys, Virginia, 
on the Jefferson-Davis Highway about 
20 miles from Washington, D. C., be­
tween that city and Richmond. For 
those who have never visited tlie Na­
tional capital the R. O. T. C. camp 
offers a welcome opportunity. The 
camp is only four- miles from Mount 
Vernon, and is near other points of 
historic interest. While at camp the 
duties are so arranged that students 
have evenings and all Saturdays to 
visit such places. One afternoon a 
week is given over to athletics. There 
is an R. O. T. C. baseball team in the 
league in the camp, fine swimming in 
either a pool or the Potomac River,, 
and tennis courts and a golf course 
conveniently located.
The Signal Corps camp is located 
at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, in the 
heart of the summer resort section. 
It is only six miles from Asbury Park, 
lies right on the Jersey shore. 
This camp is composed of about 30 
students from Carnegie, Cornell, M. I. 
T., and Georgia Tech. The camp 
hours are the same as those of the 
Engineer camp. Five days are spent 
in maneuvers, where the men' work 
under actual wartime conditions, 
sleep in army “pup” tents, and find 
out how it really is done. Tho courses 
include telephony, telegraphy, pistol 
practice, work wit.li carrier pigeons, 
hlppology, Wireless, radio, etc.
Of the men who .have attended these 
camps the concensus of opinion is 
that they would all like to return for 
another year, such an enjoyable time 
was had by all.
dance brpke up, and couples drifted 
away; some to breakfast and dances
jnology next November. It is under­
stood that Dr. Baker lias already re­
ceived the acceptance of several Eu-Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Wurts.
The great- success of. the dance is j ropean scientists to address the com­
at the various fraternity houses, and due entirely to the hardy enthusiastic I ing conference. Following his short 
others home, or various other desti- work put in by the committee. j stay in London, Dr. Baker plans to go
nations. Dance committee consisted of: ¡to Berlin and from there to several
The patrons and patronesses were Chairman, C. P. Hamilton, Sigma Al- j other European capitals, returning to 
as follows: Dean Green, Dean Tar- -pha Epsilon; treasurer, J.- Seibert, j the United States and his duties at
bell, Professor and Mrs. Charles C. Sigma Nu; II. M. Hunter, Kappa Sig- Carnegie about the last of April. 
Lee’ds, Mr. and Mrs. IT. K. Ivirkpat- ma; J. Diffley, Delta Tau Delta; T. | ' —-------------:-------------
rick, Mr. and Mrs.- J. C. Moreliead, and O. Pratt, Delta Upsilon.¡Tgf^pLuZi po^ gSni^fu*i^*
Telephone men *af 
today are extend­
ing the horh-ons of 
ipnch to points be­
yond the seas.
New Worlds for Old
Two old sun dials discovered in Ire­
land, are said to prove -that daylight 
saving existed hundreds of years be­
fore the Twelfth century. The ancient 
Irish hour varied; the daylight hour 
in summer being SO minutes and in 
winter only 40 minutes long.
I
IKE Galileo, every pioneer seeks 
new worlds. In the telephone 
industry this has led to discoveries' of 
ways and means to better service.
Telephone pioneers of yesterday 
hewed a way through intricacies of sci­
ence, finance and business management
to establish the era oi “distance speech.” 
Telephone pioneers of our own day 
imagined a ’cross-ocean service—and 
then made it.
Telephone pioneers of tomorrow 
will face the challenge of new and 
greater problems sure to arise.
BELL SYSTEM
o'/ nation-wide system of 18,500,000 inter-connecting telephones

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. MARCH 20, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
Rumored That Sophomores and Plebes Will
Substitute Tea Fight For Class BrawlAir PocketsThe BagpipeCLOTHES
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
The meeting of 'the Aviation Club 
of Carnegie Tech broke all records of 
attendance, there was over one hun­
dred and fifty present.
The question asked this week was, 
“Should there be more English in the 
Engineering and Industries than there 
is now?”
James Anderson, Junior in Chemi­
cal Engineering: “The matter of
English in the Engineering School is 
a vital one. An engineering education 
is one which is primarily for practi­
cal use and if an engneer is hampered 
by his command of the ‘King’s Eng­
lish’ it will curtail all his services. 
In addition to this, the lack of a 
means of expressing his knowledge in 
accurate words, puts the engineer in 
the class with the tradesman. We 
are one of a few of the recognized 
technical- schools who have only one 
year’s study of English in the curri­
culum. If we wish to compare with 
other technical schools it is import­
ant that we require a more intensive 
study of English."
B. Blazitis, Sopnomore in Electrical 
Engineering: “I think that the pres­
ent course of English for engineering 
students s is sufficient if the student 
takes a fair enough interest in the 
course.”
Arthur Turner, Sophomore in Build­
ing Construction: "The general ten­
dency in the industrial courses seems 
to be toward specialization without 
any apparent stress on a course of 
general information. English is the 
best source of general information 
that we have and should therefore be 
cultivated- to a greater extent.”
William P. Murdock, Junior in Civil 
Engineering: “I think that English
is very important to everyone, includ­
ing engineers. The Industries men 
have their Junior English Literature 
but we have nothing in English after 
our Freshman year. I am heartily in 
favor of more English in our school 
curriculum.”
R. Guttendorf, Sophomore in Build­
ing Construction: “I believe that the
course of English Literature which is 
included in my course is beneficial 
although some may think it is not. 
The addition of an additional course 
in English would not, however, be 
beneficial but in my opinion, would be 
time wasted.”
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
The meeting nights have been 
changed again. Now they will be 
held every other Tuesday night at the 
usual time and place. This is much 
better and we won’t have another 
mix up.
Dewey Noyes was the speaker of 
the evening. He told about his first 
solo flight and crackup. The rotary 
motor was disassembled and Noyes 
tokl and explained its construction 
and operation. Members and visitors 
asked all sorts of questions and 
Dewey answered them all.
Suits *40, *45* *50 Tdpooat»
We had the honor of having Jim 
Wagner present at the meeting. Wag­
ner is one of the leading mechanics 
in Aviation 'today. He has been at 
Mayer field until a few weeks ago 
and he left to go in a bigger venture. 
Jim gave- the glider committee some 
valuable information as he has built 
several gliders himself. We will pro­
bably hear more of him later.
j, .PAGETW TPPOEHCRAHC 
ONI .COIA E. CUA
Members received their certificates 
of membership at the end of the meet­
ing. Dewey Noyes was the first to re­
ceive an honorable membership to the 
Club.Y.W.C.A. Sponsors Dinner 
For Local College Women
BLINKERS TO BE INSTALLED 
AT 2 POINTS ON CAMPUSMembers of the Carnegie Tech Avi­
ation Club attended a dinner held in 
honor of Clarence Chamberlin, on Fri­
day evening, March 16, at the Penn 
McKee Hotel in McKeesport.
I Tonight at 6:00 the members of the 
I Y.* W. C. A. at Carnegie Tech, Pitt, 
land Pennsylvania College for Women 
are giving their annual combined din- 
j ner, this year at the Congress of Wom- 
I en’s Clubs. The dinner is sponsored 
| by members of the Y. W. C. A. but 
any- girl who is a student of one of 
Pittsburgh’s colleges may attend the 
dinner.
A large crowd is certain to take ad­
vantage of this invitation for not only 
is the best of food promised but also 
I the finest kind of entertainment and 
! most inspiring of talks are assured. 
Music for the occasion will be furn­
ished by various talented students of 
P. C. W. The speeches that feature 
the program will be given by Miss 
Mary Watson Green, Dean of Women 
at Carnegie and by Miss Tliyrsa 
Amos, Dean of Women at Pitt. Pro­
bably officers and cabinet members of 
the college branches of the Y. W. C. 
A. will be called upon to talk to the 
guests.
Carnegie Tech. is in charge of sell­
ing the tickets and is responsible for 
the financial success of the dinner. 
The support of all the women is de­
sired and ^needed, regardless of mem­
bership in the Y. W. C. A. Tickets 
I may be obtained from any of the mem­
bers of the cabinet.
Motorists Can Help Solve'Parking 
Problem on Frew St. by 
Parking at Angle
OF PITTSBURGH
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
J
ON DISPLAY AT ___AGf M Aroi & SPICKERT
fhI hIv’B *NObI Of iMBN sEbIbNt "
Re2e TiLL gniLoi 
AbMvch—4729 sEbIbNt AbMvch'—5025 TIvv gvIvuI
SEbIcN ovEvIbBENt *IbvEcI
Women’s Soph Banquet 
At Schenly Sat. NightTo relieve the traffic congestion on 
Woodlawn between Margaret Morri­
son and the Central Building there are 
two blinkers to be set up within the 
next week or ten days. One blinker 
will be placed in front of Margaret 
Morrison and the other just opposite 
the Central Building at the entrance 
to Frew street.
The blinkers are being placed at 
these places so that the night watch­
man whose business is to look about 
the school can get back to their work. 
For the past several months there ha» 
been three of the school night-watch­
men patroling the part of the street 
in question. When the blinkers are 
installed the part of the street that 
goes in front of the Central Building | 
will become a private roadway. The ’ 
school will have the right to close the 
roadway in the event that they can 
use it to their own advantage.
As you approach the blinkers, that 
will be in front of Margaret Morrison, 
from Forbes street it will show green 
with two white arrows pointing up in 
front of the gym. On the opposite 
side of the blinker will be the regu­
lar yellow fiash light. The one oppo­
site/1 the Central Building will be of the 
same type.
The students, who drive cars to 
school, can co-operate with the school 
authorities, in trying to solve the park­
ing problem by following directions. 
Then parking on Frew street, park on 
the gide toward the park and at an 
angle of 90 degrees with the curb. 
If this is adhered to there should be 
ample room for parking within short 
walking distance to all buildings.
The Womens Sophomore banquet 
with its traditional goodfellowship 
and class spirit is to.be given at the 
Schenley Hotel on Saturday night. 
This year the sophomore girls of Mar­
garet Morrison and the College of 
Fine Arts will unite in planning and 
giving a formal dinner at which 
toasts and speeches are combined 
with a delicious dinner attractively 
served. The Sophomore banquet is 
always the most popular of the enter­
tainments given by the second year 
women.
Preparations for the banquet are 
under the direction of the generol 
chairman, Isobel Sheppard, House­
hold Economics. Working with her 
are the sophomoro social comini toes 
of Margaret Morrison and Arts School.
Sp Hpo ^ihihAi^?On the former committees are Louise 
Binford, Margaret Ivoenoy, Cora Loo 
Honk, Virginia Kerr and Virginia 
Morgan. Among the girls who aro 
helping from Art School are Blanche 
Bray, J. Wilson, Pog Minor, and Kay 
Dickey.
Miss Breed and Miss Green have 
boon invited to the banquet. Miss 
Moore, the advisor of I lie Sophomoro 
Class in Margarot Morrison will ho
at the dinner. The cost per .plate Is 
$2.25.
Exceptional entertainment has boon 
arrangod for the gala affair. Virginia 
Kerr and Virginia Morgan havo or­
ganized a dofinite ticket program so 
that no sophomoro girl will miss the 
cliauco of buying a ticket which will 
entitle nor'to the best socltif event of 
the school year.
When girls blushed?
When you ate popcorn in the pic­
ture houses?
When there were no True Stories?
When ham sandwiches were a 
nickle (with ham)?
When all marriages were compan­
ionate?
When the girl paid for the enter­
tainment?
Well, neither does Carl.
f^oi
Rub: Got all the silverware chained 
down ?
Dub: Yep. The Chairs are nailed 
to the floor.
Rub: You’re using cracked plates 
and old glasses?
Dub: Yeah. All ash trays are 
nailed to the table.
Rub: O. K. We’re all ready to 
serve this fraternity banquet.CATERING
SiTiLSgAsi .p^ Usg**
.^gfi^LufH g..gu^*
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired oc merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request
*fp^i *i^nuUi 
UMkIB — TMBNbEIB—ucI UbIMFB— 
ucIB—AbIMd Mvd UMvdEIB EdIMllt 
FMdI Mvd BOld MN bIMBOvMblI 
pbEcIBr ThOvI ObdIbB—vO chMbgI 
fOb cENt dIlEvIbtr
fMblI Mvd .OuvNMEv 
suvchIOv *IbvEcIr
*NObI hOubB: 8 grhr NO ee:30 Trhr
A Friendly Bank
iMch EvdEvEduMl cuBNOFIb 
Of NhI hIllOv LMNEOvMl AMvk 
EB MBBubId Of M BEvcIbI EvNIb­
IBN Ev hEB fEvMvcEMl MffMEbB Mvd 
M dIBEbI NO hIlp hEF wENh hEB 
pbOblIFBr
iBpIcEMllt EB NhEB NbuI Of 
tOuvg FIv Mvd wOFIv whO 
OpIv MccOuvNB hIbIr UOFI Ev 
Mvd lIN uB BhOw tOu hOw NO 
NMkI NhI fullIBN MdvMvNMgI Of 
NhI OppObNuvENEIB OffIbId bt 
M bMvkEvg cOvvIcNEOv wENh 
uBr
Last Friday, March 16, J. Horace 
McFarland of Harrisburg, Pa., the 
chairman of the committee on legis­
lation of the United Typothetae of 
America gave a lecture on "What is 
a Printer?” In this lecture the ideals 
and purposes of a printer were dis­
cussed in a very comprehensive, man­
ner. Mr. McFarland is an outstanding 
figure in the printing world, and ha3 
served on many committees and com­
missions connected with the 
bettering of printing standards. 
He has recently returned from 
Washington, D. C., where he 
served in the capacity of chairman 
of the legislation committee of the 
United Typothetae. As chairman, he 
had a conference with the Postmaster 
General and one of the committee of 
the Jlouse of Representatives regard­
ing the passage of the "Griest Bill” 
which is designed to further the dis­
tribution of printed matter.
9TlcßCmienUßa CATERERS8KADÏ AHD PENS AVE, PITTSBURGH
DIFFERENCE
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Fit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students .
The March number of the "Inland 
Printer” contains a beautiful speci­
men of the typographical work of Mr. 
Gress of the Carnegie Printing De­
partment. J. T. Frazier recently ap­
pointed chief editor of this journal, in 
commending Gress’s article, calls him 
"one of the country’s leading typo­
graphers.”
R002-3-4 miLauL* g^UgSi 
SMt ThOvI gNlMvNEc 9595 LEghN ThOvI sMfMtINNI 479e-^
The next lecture of the series being 
sponsored by the United Typothetae 
of America will be given on March 27 
in Room 104 Industries by Mr. A. L. 
Lewis of Toronto. Canada. Mr. Lewis 
is the President of the United Typo­
thetae of America. His subject is the 
"Responsibility of the Printer."
A sixty-four page booklet entitled 
"College Training in Printing” is be­
ing produced by the faculty and stu­
dents of the printing department. 
This booklet will be ready for distri- 
bution about the beginning of April.
Here’s some “inside stuff” mi smoking;irviSIONTi 
«> PROGRESS p 
J SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER
Retailing is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
Sqmewheue in the neighborhood of your center of gravity there’s 
a spot devoted to smoke appreciation. We could describe it more 
fully, but this is no organ recital. The point is: Light a Camel, pull 
in a fragrant cloud of cool joy—and listen to your smoke-spot sing 
oui.—“Haleelooya!,J As the noble redskin puts it—we have said!
O © 1928
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Solo m , N. C.
rAUrMANN’JYou’re a dear, sweet girl. God bless 
you and keep you. I wish I could 
afford to.
PITTSBURGHFIFTH AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

Another leading tobacconist in 
Pittsburgh, Pa., says:
'For some time past. . . OLD 
GOLDS have been my fastest- 
growing cigarette. Sales have 
gone up steadily month after 
month, and there doesn’t seem 
to be any let-up in this new 
cigarette’s popularity.”
Harry Marus, Mgr. 
Woodlawn Pharmacy
n\*¦.•II•’
-TnHEY
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 20, 1928
INTRA-MURAL BRIEFS
ARTS GIRLS WINS INTRA­
MURAL SWIMMING ME HT
One week t.o go, and then the cham­
pionship game«. There 1U little doubt 
an to who the participant« will be. In 
the Federal and American League«, 
McGill Hall and the Phi Kap's have 
their place« cinched. Tlieta Xi and 
Kappa Sigma will cla«h tomorrow 
night to determine the victor of the 
National League. If Kappa Sigma 
win«, an extra game will he played.
Delta Phi Delta overpowered Phi 
Sigma Kappa lUst Monday. Walk and 
Rymer muat have had their lior«e 
«hoes along for they landed plenty of 
snowbirds.
With a margin of Lwo point« the 
Beta'« came through a victory over 
the Beta Sigma Rlio’s. Brown «eemed 
to he off-color, while Shaughency 
and Hill.y played exceptionally well.
Nu Delta Alpha with some little 
difficulty overran the Welch Hall 
team. The «core would probably have 
been different, had the non-degree 
men played their regulars.
The Delta Tail Dell's easily over­
powered the weak Delta Mil team, 
standing players for the Clyde 
standing pulayers for the Clyde 
Streeters.
McCill Hall with very little trouble, 
vanquished the Alpha Sig.’s. Their 
main offense were Warso, Rikoski 
and Roper.
In their game with Scobell Hall last 
week, the D. U.’s were awaay below 
par. Scobell won easily, the score 
being 19 to 12.
The Sigma Nu’6 defeated Henderson 
Hall witli the rather one-sided score 
of 18-5. Team work seemed to be the 
big asset of the Forbes street men.
Overwhelming the A. T. O.’s with a 
score of 28 to 13, the Phi Kap’s show­
ed plenty of potential strength. The 
entire second team was given a chance 
to perform.
j The Girls' Swimming Meet held 
last week resulted in a victory for 
I Arts Schol. The events held included 
j plunge, diving, relay in free style and 
side stroke. A life-saving exhibition 
was held after the meet in which the 
| girl natator« showed exceptional 
: skill. The «core show« evidence of 
j keen competition. Art School made 
I ilr«t place carrying 15 points. The 
I Freshman of M. M. C. C. slightly 
| overtowered their rival Sophs by two 
j points. The Juniors M. M. C. C. held 
a happy medium by managing to win 
¡13 points.
I Free «tyle—Lucile lDUm fjO
I second, Gladys Conners (M. 
j third, I. Sheppard (M. Soph.)
Plunge—E. Schlesinger M. Jr.); 
second, S. Knorr (A. Fr.); third, E. 
Ellis (M. Soph.)
Diving—L. Ross (M. Fr.); second, 
|F. I-Ianna (A. Soph.); third, S. Knorr 
(A. Fr.)
j Side stroke — S. Knorr (A. Fr.); 
¡second, F. Bohliber (M. Fr.); third,
111. Montgomery (M. Soph.) 
i For form — H. Montomery (M. 
Soph.); second, G. Conners (M. Jr.); 
third, E. Schlesinger (M. Jr.)
Fr.); 
Jr.) ;
Curtis—“My girl paid $20 for a 
handkerchief.”
June—“Gee, that’s a lot of money 
to blow in.”—School Echo.
Intra-Mural League Standings
LgfupLgs sigGoi
WonTheta Xi .................'............................................ G
Kappa Sigma ...................................................... 5
Sigma Nu ............................................................ 3
Nu Delta Alpha ................................................ 3.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ......................................... 2
Henderson Hall ................................................... 2
Phi Kappa Psi.................................................... 1
WIlch _Mll rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr 1
sOBN
01
TINr
1.000
.833 
.600 .500 .« 
.333 
.333 .200 
.160
ghi^uUgL sigGoi
WonLostPet.Plii Kappa .................................................... 601.000Beta Theta Pi ................................................ 51.833Scobell Hall ...................................................... 42.667Delta IJpsilon .................................................. 33.500Beta Sigma Rho ............................................ 24.333Pi Kappa Alpha.........................4.333Kappa Sigma Rho.....................5.166Alpha Tau Omega.....................5.166
.iSi^gs sigGoi
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Boss 1-Iall ................
Alpha Sigma Phi .. 
Dblta Phi Delta ... 
Phi Sigma Kappa . 
Delta Tail Delta ..
WOvsOBNTINr601.0004e.8002.60033.50033.50024.33324.33306.000
Varsity Natatores End 
Season With Pitt Defeat
With Only One Man Grad­
uating Varsity Outlook 
is Bright for 1929
1st Vacationer — "Where are 
shower baths?”
2nd Vacationer—"I don’t knowr, I've 
only been here three weeks.”—School 
Echo.
the Pompus physician (to man plaster­
ing defective walk): “The trowel cov­
ers up a lot of mistakes—what?” 
Workman: “Yus, gov’nor—and so 
do the spade.”
The varsity natators ended up their 
season last Wednesday, dropping a 
meet to the strong Pitt tankmen 42 to 
20. It was-one of the best meets of 
the year despite the score. The relay 
was lost by little over a yard much 
closer than the race earlier in the 
year in the local pool. For Carnegie 
Von Ende was the outstanding man, 
winning the 220-yard free stroke in 
2:51:1, which was his best race of the 
year. Wright was undoubtedly the 
best i}ian Pitt had. He established a 
new school record, for the Pitt tank, 
40 yards in 18 3-5 seconds.
The swimming teams, both varsity 
and freshmen, have had rather unsuc­
cessful seasons as far as victories go. 
However, the teams have been mak­
ing rapid progress since the first of 
the season, and under Coach Rise- 
dorpli’s tutelage have improved won­
derfully.. With only one man, T. C. 
Wray-r graduating, and with the prob­
ability of Follansbee becoming eligi­
ble, and Edwards returning to school, 
the prospects <£or one of the best teams 
Carnegie ever had, is very bright for
next year.
The scoring in the Pitt meet was:
40-yard free stroke—First, Wright, 
(P.); second, Blaizitis (C.); third, 
Wray (C). Winning time, 18 3-5 sec­
onds.
220 yard—First, Von Ende (C.)i 
second, Robb (P.); third, Hobe (C.)- 
Time, 2:51:1.
Diving—First, Basler (C.); second,. 
Frey (P.); third, Mackinaw (P.).
150-yard back _ stroke—First, Har­
per (P.); second, Mango (P.); third,. 
Durr (C.). Winning time, 2:00:3.
200-yard breast strike—First, Jack­
son -(P.); second, Sangster (C.); 
third, Underwood (P.). Winning time, 
2:50:2.
100-yard free stroke—First, Wright 
(P.); second, Mango (P.); third. 
Bush (C.). Winning time, 55:1.
160-yard relay won by Pitt in 
1:20 4-5.-
Total number of points—Pitt, 42; 
Carnegie, 20.
The Plebe score was 49 to 10 in. 
Pitt’s favor. Beech, Tartan diver, 
was nosed out for the first time this 
season in the dive, being forced to 
accept second place after a close fight 
with Woods of Pitt.
Princeton University’s school of 
geology on wheels will cover more- 
than 11,000 miles this summer in less 
than six weeks in studying natural' 
formations. 'Looks if they weren’t 
going to leave a stone unturned in 
their search for knowledge.
The overtime periods were required 
to settle the contest between the 
Tlieta Xi’s and the S. A. E.’s Wednes-1 
day. 'Plie 'P. X. team finally came 
through with a three point lead.
With Flanagan, Allen and Schmidt i 
running wild, the Kappa Sig.’s downed i 
the Phi Psi's with a margin of eight 
point«.. ?, -----
Pi Kappa Alpha played the dark 
horse and won ¦their game from Kappa 
Sigma Rho. Smith did t some good 
shooting.
The S, P. I'l.-Boss Hall game wan 
necessarily called off, as both teams 
did not appear at the appointed time.
Last Weck'a Score. *• 
National League—
Nu Delta Alpha...................I ‘I
Welch Hall .............................11
Sigma Nu.................................18
Henderson Hall .................... fi
Kappa Sigma .... A ............17
Pill Kappa Pal ....................... 9
Theta XI .................................IB
Slgma Alpha Epsilon...........12
American League—
Beta Tlieta PI.........................13
Beta Slgma Rlvo......................I I
Phi Kappa ...............................28
Alpha Tail Omega.................13
Scobel Hall ............................19
Delta Upsilon .........................12
Pi Kappa Alpha.....................21
.. Kappa Sigma Rho.................16
Federal League—
Delta1 Phi Delta .....................22
Phi Sigma Kappa
Delta Tan Delta.. 
Delta Mu ..............
McGill Hall ............
Alpha Sigma Phi..
fhEB WIIk'B *chIdulIr 
fuIBdMt, hMbch 20, e928—
Henderson Hall vs. Welch I-Iall— 
S:30.
Sigma Nu vs. Nu Delta Alpha— 
7:30.
Beta Theta Pi vsr-Alplia Tail Ome­
ga—7:30-
Alpha Sigma Phi vs. Delta Mu— 
8:30.
WIdvIBdMt, hMbch 2e, e928—
Kappa Slgma vs. Theta XI—8:30. 
Scobell Hall vs. lvappa Sigma Rho 
—7:30.
Slgma Phi Epsilon vs. Phi Sigma 
Kanpa 8:30.
McGill Hall vs. Delta Tail Delta— 
7:30.
*sgLG uLSu*TiL*gAsi
"Slang is indispensable,'' Dr. Paul 
M. Paine, or the Syracuse Public 
Library, told journalism students of 
Syracuse University. “I wish I were 
better acquainted, with it,” lie added. 
His only stipulation was to “know 
when slang is being used; know the 
accepted word that might fill the 
place and then decide which is most 
effective, the correct word or the col­
loquialism.
For a most refreshing change:
Follow your friends and smoke 
this smoother and better cigarette
©.P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 20. 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
On the Plaid Screen
AH .^iSi^uUa Sr WppS*
UMbvIgEI wEll bI hOBN NhEB wIIk-Ivd NO cOllIgI bEflI NIMFB fbOF NhI 
TIvvBtlvMvEM-WIBN nEbgEvEM BIcNEOv Of NhI LMNEOvMl uvNIbcOllIgEMNI ^EflI gB­
BOcEMNEOv, whO wEll vEI Ev M BhOuldIb-NO-BhOuldIb FMNch fOb vMNEOvMl bEflI 
hOvObBr fhEB EB NhI FOBN EFpObNMvN FMNch Of NhI tIMb fOb cOllIgI guvFIv, 
Mvd BhOuld pbOvEdI BOFI clOBI cOFpINENEOvr UMbvIgEI'B NIMF, whElI vON M 
fMvObENI fOb NhI vMNEOvMl NENlI, EB cOvcIdId M gOOd chMvcI NO cOp NhI BIcNEOvMl 
cbOwv, wENh ENB MNNIvdMvN hOvObB Mvd publEcENtr
UMbvIgEI bEflI NIMFB hMvI FMdI IvvEMblI bIcObdB BEvcI NhI BpObN wMB 
EvNbOducId hIbI BIvIbMl tIMbB MgO, Mvd EN EB M fENNEvg NbEbuNI NO NhEB tIMb'B | 
NIMF, Mvd NO NhI hElENMbt SIpMbNFIvN whEch hMB BpOvBObId NhI BpObN, NhMN | 
NhEB FMNch BhOuld bI hIld Ov NhI UMbvIgEI bMvgIr
The rifle range is located in the basement of the Margaret Morrison ! 
Building, and is one of the best-equipped in the country. Those who recall 
it as it was several years ago,.dimly lighted, dirty and poorly arranged, mar- , 
vel at the changes which have been wrought. Students who have never vis- I 
ited it should do so, in order to appreciate just what a modern range is. *******
fhI vMbBENt Mvd plIbI BwEFFEvg NIMFB lOBN NO TENN lMBN WIdvIBdMt, Ev M 
FIIN MN NhI TMvNhIb pOOlr fhI dINMElId bIpObNB Of NhI FIIN fMElB NO EvdEcMNI 
NhI vMBN EFpbOvIFIvN BhOwv bt NhI UMbvIgEI FIvr AuN NhI EFpbOvIFIvN 
wMB vONEcIMblI NO Mvt whO hMd BIIv NhI TlMEd BwEFFIbB Ev McNEOv IMblEIb Ev 
NhI BIMBOvr fhI TENN NIMFB FIN UMbvIgEI hIbI, Ev NhI BIMBOv OpIvIb, Mvd 
hMd M wMlkMwMt Ev IvIbt IvIvN IxcIpN NhI fbIBhFMv dEvI; buN lMBN WIdvIB- , 
dMt NhI BpIcNMNObB BMw M bENNIb BNbugglI Ev pbMcNEcMllt IvIbt IvIvNr fbuI, 
TENN wOv MgMEv, buN NhI EFpbOvIFIvN BhOwv bt NhI fMbNMvB wMB BO gbIMN MB , 
NO bbEvg vEBEOvB Of M bIMl BwEFFEvg NIMF, Ev NhI vIMb fuNubIr
The Intra-Mural basket ball season will end this week, and the chain- j 
pionships will be played off before Easter vacation.
The Theta Xi-Kappa Sigma game tomorrow night should be a thriller. 
Both teams are big and fast, and have reason to want a victory—Theta Xi ! 
to cop the league title, and Kappa Sigma to earn a tie for it, necessitating a , 
play-off.
Championship Rifle 
/Watch On C.I.T. Range
National Intercollegiate 
Shoulder to Shoulder 
Match Here Sat.
ZENK TO MANAGE ! 
BASKETBALL TEAM;
PLEBES BEAT SOPHS IN| 
FIRST GAME OF CO-ED 
CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES
Hewett Appointed Freshman 
Manager-for 1929; Varsity 
Freshman Awards Made
At the last meeting ot the athletic 
council the schedules for the spring 
sports wtre approved and all the 
basket bail material was cleaned op.»
Ray H. Buckley was made sole man­
ager of the varsity football team for 
the-season 1928, due to Leon Hart­
man’s quitting school. Buckley is a 
member of Alpha Tau Omega fratern­
ity.
John M. Scarlett,- manager of the 
1928 basket ball team received a var­
sity major “C’* with a bar, and G. L. 
Seibert, manager of the Freshman 
team was awarded the varsity minor 
¦“C” with a bar.
Theodore R. Zenk was elected man­
ager of the vasity basket ball team 
for the 1929 season. Zenk is a mem­
ber of Delta Upsilon fraternity—and 
was chairman of the Junior Prom. 
Robert B. Hewett received the man­
agership of the Freshman basket ball 
team for next year. Hewett is a mem­
ber of Pi Kappa Alpha. The election 
of first and second, assistant basket 
ball managers for next year was laid , 
on the table until the next meeting, j 
The following varsity floormen were . 
awarded varsity major “G’s” for their 
performance during the past season: 
Captain, H. P. White.
R. C. Hitchcock 
W. M. High 
H. Harpster 
J. M. Bond 
R. A. Kilgore 
C. J. Letzelter 
W. R. Brown
F. J. .Crum ?
The following' Freshmen were 
awarded their numerals for their per­
formance during the past season:
Glenn Black 
L. Flannagan 
George Nease
The girls basket ball tournament 
opened last Thursday with a hard 
fought game between the Margaret 
Morrison Sophomores and Plebes in 
which thé latter succeeded in com­
pletely vanquishing their otherwise 
superior foes. The final score of 47 
to 12 left no doubt as to the Plebes’ 
victory and was proof of the excellent 
basket ball material which the Fresh­
man class has to offer this year. Thé 
Plebes displayed some fine passing 
as well as several spectacular shots. 
Although the Sophs, put up a good 
fight, the superiority of the under­
classmen’s playing was evident from 
the start.
The lineup:
S. Wright ............F.................. E. Ellis
E. Lemon .............F............ N- Ebaugh
K. Collins, (C.) ...C......... I. Sheppard
I. Schory ............S. C.. H. Krafchysyn
H. Mowl .............G____ (C.) G. Jarvis
M. Vogle ..............G... G. Rittenhouse
Numerous-substitutions of the play­
ers from one position to another on 
the Soph team were made, C. Henlc 
and H. Boyd being brought in as subs 
toward the close of the game. Sub­
stitutions on the Plebe team were as 
follows: G. Foster for E." Lemon, K.
Palen for H. Mowl.
Field goals—S. Wright, 11; E. 
Lemon, 1; G. Foster, 10; N. Ebaugh, 
4.
Foul shots—S. Wright, 3; G. Foster, 
1; N. Ebaugh, 3; H. Boyd, 1.
Tomorrow the Margaret Morrison 
Juniors and the Fine Arts team will 
play off the second game c-f the cham­
pionship series. The winners of this 
game will meet the Margaret Morri­
son Plebes on Thursday to decide the 
championship.
The Carnegie Csimpus will soon be j 
overrun with gunmen. At first 
thought this may sound very danger- j 
ous, and cause some of the students i 
to decide on calling the Oakland jio-1 
lice station for protection, but that is ! 
unnecessary for these gunmen will 
not be of the dangerous variety, but 
will be the best riflemen from the 
various schools which will be com­
peting in the National Rifle Associa- i 
I tion shoulder to shoulder rifle match 
which is to be held on the Carnegie | 
| Tech range this Saturday.
This match is for the Pennsydvania- 
j West Virginia section, which is one 
' of the seven sections into which the 
j United States has been divided by 
j the N. R. A. A shoulder to shoulder 
! match is being held in each of these 
i seven sections. The team with the 
! highest score of all the sections will 
i be given a beautiful team trophy and 
| a certificate of victory showing them 
j to be the champions of the United 
i States. Each individual on the team 
! will also receive a silver medal. Each 
member of the team winning its sec- 
I tion will be awarded a bronze medal, 
j The Pennsylvania West Virginia 
! league is very evenly matched, and 
j all the teams have an equal chance of 
i winning this match which consists of 
i the prone, kneeling and standing po- 
j sitions.
| An official from the N. R. A. at 
I Washington, D. C., and the' Executive
* officer of the league will be in charge 
of the match which is scheduled to
¡start at 9:00 in the morning.
! Each team will consist of five shoot­
ing members, a team captain.and the 
\ coach with the possibility of one or 
j two alternates besides. An individual 
! time limit of 15 minutes per relay 
I will be enforced; time to be ^computed 
: on the basis of one minute per shot, 
j including slghters, with three min- 
; utes for change of relays.
Carnegie Tech is honored in having 
such an important national Inter- 
.collegiate competition here, and the 
co-operation of the N. R. A. in arrang­
ing this match Is very much appre­
ciated.
The range is now being prepared 
for the matches, and the school 
matches for this week will be com- 
j pleted by Thursday.
| Major Taylor and manager Park 
’ have been working on the plans and 
j preparations for this match for sev- 
i eral weeks, and it is believed that the 
I Carnegie team will make a good show­
ing in spite of the various handicaps 
j the team has had this season.
I Penn State College, University of 
¡Pittsburgh, and West Virginia Uni- 
I versity will be here for certain, and 
I possibly University of Pennsylvania,
) Drexel, and Gettysburg, who have not
• yet' been heard from.
j The Carnegie team has not been 
j definitely- decided, but will probably 
include: Bronson, Kasehagen, Weath- 
I erell, Knudsen, Lippert, and Captain 
j A. M. Fisher. Five of these men will 
compose the team, and the other 
will be the alternate.
jDuety CDHoe aDg
cAnnouncing the recent opening 
of Horne’s New Shoe Salon-— 
considered the finest in America 
in the matter of Appointments, 
Service and Shoes.
And suggesting a few of the reasons why you 
will enjoy choosing your spring footwear here... 
The Salon’s first appeal is undoubtedly aesthe­
tic. It looks more like a drawing room than a 
shoe department, with its hospitable groups of 
beautifully upholstered chairs and its lake-blue 
. rug blending in a color harmony that cannot fail 
to delight you. Then, if you’re interested in 
fashion, you’ll appreciate the displays of related 
accessories in the cases. And you’ll enjoy! the 
dancing-slipper room with its minute dancing 
floor, and the boudoir slipper-room with its fas­
cinating wears.
Most of all you’ll be attracted by the shoes them­
selves. There’s a selection at $10.00, partic- 
alarlyl, which will appeal to most school girls, for 
there’s hardly! a pair among them that’s not dis­
tinguished by some clever little touch or other 
... a touch which marks them as coming from
America’s Finest Shoe Salon
' Oscar Carlson 
Marvin Fox 
Harold Davis 
John Bayliss
VARSITY ANNEXES 
TRIANGULAR MEET
THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new “shadowweight” felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUE Established 1872
Women Take Second Place, 
Plebes Fall Down 
to Last Place
Oakland Savings and Trust Company
“The Oakland Bank”
Capital, $300,000.00 
Surplus, $500,000.00 
Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERS
C. B. Aylesworth............................................President
Clyde C. Taylor....................................Vice President
E. J. Miller...........................................Yice President
O. O. Young...................................................Treasurer
P. W. Cotton................................Assistant Treasurer
C. W. Ehni.....................................................'Secretary
Adam Eoscoe................................Assistant Secretary
DIRECTORS
C. H. Kerr John Dimling
E. Bogers Flannery James B. Clark
Barney Dreyfuss Clyde C. Taylor
J. O. Milier A. B. Sheets
E. J. Miller C. B. Aylesworth
A. J. Loeffler John G. Pew
Member Federal Reserve System
The annual battle between the wo­
men, upperclassmen and plebes, is 
over and the upperclassmen disported 
themselves in a seemingly ungentle- 
manly manner.
The above statement need not 
arouse any horror in the hearts of 
peace loving students for the battle in 
question is merely the annual Trian­
gular match between the three repre­
sentative Carnegie teams.
As said before the Varsity has 
again carried off the honors with the 
women running a close second. No 
one knows what induced the Plebes to 
seek the last position.
1stWeek 2d Week Total
1. Varsity .............493 491 983
2. Women -------: .490 "487 977
3. Plebes  .............482 484 967
It is -interesting to note that the
only perfect score of 100 was turned 
in by Alice Bright, a co-ed.
The varsity’s victory was well earn­
ed for the regulars, led by Leo Kase­
hagen with the highest individual 
score, 198, had a hard time to keep 
pace with the excellent shots on the 
women’« team. The women are In­
deed to be complimented for their 
work against the best marksmen of , 
their sex in'the country. Winning im-1 
portant matches consistently, they I 
have done" much to spread the fair j 
name of Carnegie to all corners of the 
globe. Very few co-educatlonal In- j 
stitutions can boast of such a set of fe­
male riflers as i" contained within the 
bounds of Schtnley Park and, need- 
less to say, everv student is proud or I 
the record which they have made.
The actions oi the varsity speak j 
louder than words and one has only 
to read over their past records in or­
der to see how high it ranks in college 
circles.
The plebes, for some unaccountable
reason, did not render the perform­
ance of which thoy are capable but 
past actions show that they, too, are 
worthy of much praise.
To. the'victor goes the spoils so to 
the varsity goes the party which the 
losers must arrango in the. near fu­
ture. Besides this the winners will 
now remain champions until noxt 
year and who knows but that the wo­
men or plebos will rise up from their 
present position and topplo the upper- 
classmon from their exalted thrones, 
taking away from them their titles, 
Rifle Kings of Carnegie.
Prisoner—(just back from trial): 
Hurrah, fellas! I’m crazy.—Groen 
Goat.
“Pardon me, sir, but could you tell 
me where I could get a drink?"
"Mister, I’m only a street car mo- 
torman. You’re the third man this 
morning who has mistaken me for a 
policeman.”
gSni^fu*i gLS Gif ^i*osf*
Man Riled by 
Rivals’ Time 
Claims
Rutherford, N. J. _ „ „ March 9, 1927Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
I sure get some riled when I see where some fellow is crowing over the fact that being older, and having run 
into Edgeworth sooner than his less 
fortunate compatriots, he challenges 
the world as the champion long-time member of the Edgeworth Club.
He_ doesn’t deserve any medals. He got his reward in the enjoyment of his smokingfor the added number of years. He was just lucky in starting sooner, that's all.
However, if you care to delve into ancient history, look up when they first started to pull down the old Grand 
Central Station in New York,* then add at least six months to that, and you will arrive at the approximate time when I first joined the club.
I have smoked at least one pipeful of every other tobacco I have seen 
advertised, sometimes through neces­sity, but most of the time to prove to myself that I have been right in stick­ing to the old blue tin.
Yours truly,
H. M. Wittridgd•April, 1907
gss hgai* p. fHTiW^ufi^*, LiW gLS o*iS 
*psS—^iLfiS—^iTgu^iS
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
^OtMl TObNMblI SEBNbEbuNObB—Upo^f ee00 
*NObI LOr e *NObI LOr 2
428 .po^f_ gniLoi
ndor 
very 
< will 
vhoii.
Blasting
for excavation work
Edgeworth
Extra High Crude
Smoking Tobacco
LESSON No. 9 FROM THE
BLASTERS’ HANDBOOK
TTTTHEN the steam shovel suddenly strikes a stratum of 
V V heavy clay, hardpan, or shale, how can explosives be 
used to keep the yardage up to schedule? When the excava­
tion is for a foundation how can you use explosives without 
weakening the support for the building? In blasting 
foundations through rock, how should dynamite be used 
to avoid cracking the rock beyond a certain line? How 
should bore holes be loaded, how placed?
These and a multitude of other questions that are not 
ordinarily treated in the average engineering text book, 
but will most certainly arise when you’re in the field, are 
completely answered in the Blasters' Handbook. Each 
operation is carefully described and illustrated with dia­
grams and photographs. This book, now standard in 
many engineering classrooms, is a digest of field experi­
ences covering a period of 125 years. There is no other 
book like it because no other men ever had so long and so 
diverse an experience to draw upon.
You can have a copy of the Blasters’ 
Handbook by merely fdling in this cou­
pon. It costs you nothin};.
(SMI)
E.I. du Pont <Ic Nomour« Co., Inc.
lixplonlve« Department, Wilmington, Dui. 
Gentlemen:
Plcaue fiend me a copy of your "Blanlcrn' Handbook."
— PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS —

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 20, 1928
Hon. James Francis Burke Speaks to American 
Bankers’ Association on Combined Capital
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
PubllHhcd once every week during the college 
year by undergraduates o£ Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. Entered in the Pittsburgh 
oDUR Officc ait second-class matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chief ...................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor................Milton Cohen
NewH Editor..............Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred WoodH
Women’« Editor.......................Jean RoyAlumni Editor...................Herbert Orau
EXCHANGE EDITORS Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bulllnger William IIoho
A. E. Fisher E. WeaverJohnSchnieder Meredith Stump
Helen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonder«
JUNIOR EDITORS 
S. C. Ralaton Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill !
REPORTERS 
H. L. Bunker, Jr. Ina Hansell 1
E. Jarema E. Schlesinger i
T. Lippert }J. Kann
W. W. Hay j. H. McAteer ;
C- Park c< I3oy(1J. J. Boyle 
H. N. MelxnerK. O’Donnell _ ^ R. BramsonJ. Carpe H Whitehill
R. Barr 
A. M. FiHher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson 
(). F. Ackenheil
H. Levinson 
J. W. Eason 
II. Booth 
M. Echels 
N. Kline W. H. Worland 
W. H. MartsolfG. M. Wilson A. F. Phillips
L. I. Shusset W. L. Myers
A. G. Allen j. B. Patterson
D. K. Tomer E. J. Dattisman
L. M. Baugh
BUSINESS^ STAFF 
Business Manager.. .Shelby .McMilllon 
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants— R. WelirleT. R. Zenc D. H. Gen ter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager.. Harold Kandell
Assistants—
G. Brailmst A. Frank
J. Roth A. Haynes
G. C. Harbison C. E. Blass
G. Thompson S. Bluestone
B. Wedner I. Levin
A. Toplitz S. Feigenbaum
M. Malinicli J. P. Jones
R. W. Carter D. Seville
S. A. Bontonari 
¦—¦ i;... ¦ ¦¦ ...------------: |
Ofllcc—Hoorn 12, Induntrien Building. Office : 
Hour«—Monday to Thursdays, 12:30-1:20 ! Pnpor made up Friday, 12:30-0:00.
To influre publication on tho succeeding | 
Tuesday, new« items must be in the student j 
pout ofllcc or Tartan Office before 4 :30 Thurs­
day.
Aftior Office Hours call Schcnley 1490, Schonloy 084G, Sclionlcy 0211.All editorials which are initialed are contributed by persons other than 
the editor, uninitialed, editorials are 
those by the editor.
THE PLEBE PROM
Having been known in the past by : 
various names, and most recently'as 
All Fool’s Day and now as tho Plebe 
Prom, the arrival of Carnegie’s tradi- j 
tlonal spring festival of the Freshmen | 
. brings with it tho promise of royal on-1 
i, tortalnmont for all who care to view j 
the promenades in tho assemblies of 
the several colleges. Tho first year 
men and women alone have yet.* to ox- 
porlonGO tho fun of Plobe Prom Day,
. |\nd many of thorn are not without 
misgivings as to the exact proceduro. 
They may look forward to April 10 
with a sigh and a subtlo expletive for 
tho roguIntion-enforcing Sophomores, 
who luivo been doing right nobly thoir 
job in tho past few wooks. Or they 
may bo contriving ft way to avoid tho 
publicity oxporloneod by dressing for 
tho occasion. Probably few actually 
roall/.o that tho Day is fully as much 
fun for thomsolvos as for the upper- j 
class onlookers. Such, nevortholoss, 
is the case.
By entering entirely into the spirit 
of the Plebe Prom, by roally endeav­
oring to win one of tho coveted ex­
emption cards, freshmen find a now 
enjoyment in getting together for the 
contest which is sponsored by student 
government and is recognized by cam- 
put tradition. It is not just another 
attempt of the Sophomores to impose 
upon the Plebes. It is not associated 
in any manner with trials. Nor are 
there any ill effects from it. This 
year the Prom will be under the di­
rect supervision of Druids, Sopho­
more • class honorary, and no Plebe 
need feel that he is in any way being 
mistreated by living up to the letter 
and the spirit of the Plebe Prom tra­
dition.
The event is being held immediately 
after the Easter vacation this year to 
enable frèsiimeu to have adequate 
time for preparing their costumes and 
making their plans. Carnegie tradi­
tion requires all Plebes to participate 
in the Prom, and this year especially 
should there appear some novel and 
interesting stunts.
* S. C. R.
According to experiments carried 
on at tho University of Minnesota, 
tlioro is reason to boliove that ono 
student out of ovory four cheats in 
examinations. About 400 students 
were quostionod with tho understand­
ing that any information which they 
might give would in no way affect 
their grades, and it was then found 
out that 18 per cont of the students 
of the University of Minnesota Were 
partly cheating their way through, 
and they are of the opinion that, 
when the final investigations are com­
pleted, the percentage will have in­
creased to twenty-five.—Vermont 
Cynic.
M. I. T.—The Flying Club of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
has purchased an American Eagle air­
plane for the amusement and instruc­
tion of the club.
“Fruits of Combined Capital.”
The American people are rapidly re­
alizing the responsibilities of living 
in a billion dollar age, In a billion dol­
lar country. It is the most ambitious, 
tho most Inventive, the most pro­
gressive, the most practical and the 
most constructive age in the ebb and 
flow of centuries.
Combined capital has been an out­
standing' 'factor in this development. 
In fact, that ono magic word "combi­
nation” has boon responsible for a 
multitude of tho mightiest of latter- 
day achievements. And nowhere so 
strikingly as here in America.
The crowning achievement of Amer­
ica’s career lies in its glorious spirit 
of “get together.” What might have 
been forty-eight conflicting provinces, 
each seeking the accomplishment of 
a separate selfish purpose, is today a 
single united republic. In its genius 
for combination lies the secret of its 
greatest conquests. Unity of purpose, 
unity of effort, and unity of forces 
have worked its political, social, scien­
tific, industrial and commercial won 
ders.
Debt to Individual Genius.
In attributing to combined capital 
its fair share of credit, I have no de­
sire to overlook the physical and in­
tellectual achievements of those whose 
genius and industry have preated in­
ventions and wrought accomplish­
ments amjd scenes .of poverty, nor to 
belittle the initiative, the never end­
ing perseverance and success of indi­
viduals who dreamed and toiled and 
conquered alone.
But what single individuals never 
could have done; what small combi­
nations of capital would have been 
impotent to accomplish, these larger 
agencies have brought about with such 
an ease and on such a scale as to 
arouse the wonder of the world.
In many instances single control 
over every factor from the raw mate­
rial' in the hills to the finished pro­
duct at the door of the ultimate con­
sumer, has resulted in economics and 
improvements unsurpassed in any 
other country.,
Combined Capital and the Railroads.
One channel through which com­
bined capital has wrought wonders is 
found in the great railroad system. 
Had we depended upon small units of 
capital, and separate ownerships, a 
thousand jerkwater railroads with dif­
ferent schedules and different rates 
would still be handicapping American 
business. Tlie trunk line would be un­
known and the luxurious express that 
plunges up and down the continent 
at lightning speed by niglit and day 
would be a dream of something yet 
to come.
It is a wide gap between the Clil- 
nose coolie’s wages of ten cents per 
day and the American railroad work- 
or.’fe wago of seven to twelve dollars 
por day, but it. emphasizes tho para­
dox when the high rate per ton mile 
for goods carried on tlie coolie’s back 
Is compared with tho American freight 
charge of approximately a cont a. 
mile. In a word, America pays the 
highest transportation wages in the 
world and charges tho lowest rate of 
service in tho world.
The fundamental difference Is that 
hack of tho coolie tlioro is no accu­
mulated capital, while behind ovory 
American railroad man there is at 
least $25,000,000,000 of invested capi 
Inl. The Pennsylvania Railroad alone 
originally consisted of more than GOO 
separate corporations.
More Modern Public Utilities.
Twonty-llvo years ago the average 
light, boat and power and traction 
company was a financial cripple, an in­
efficient public servant, a handicap to 
the community and a perpetual foot­
ball of a low order of politics.
Combined capital finally came to 
thoir rescue, discarded their archaic 
equipment, eliminated their provin­
cial policies, and substituted enlight­
ened business management in their 
stead.
An impressive lesson is taught when 
we contrast the beneficient results of 
these combinations in the United 
States . with the conditions that pre­
vail in England in the electric world. 
In London alone there are about 110 
electric light plants, hardly any two 
of which operate with the same volt­
age or frequency. Each of these com­
panies has small capital, a small plant 
and generates a small volume of pow­
er, making the service cost to the pub­
lic many times greater than that in 
the United States.
Capital and Holding Companies
Much of our success is due to the 
recent development of holding com­
panies. In fact, holding companies 
have created a now profession, de­
voted solely to the creating and direct­
ing of these great enterprises. Vast 
capital is essential to their creation 
and thoir continuance. But brain, and 
not wealth, will always bo tho great­
est. dynamic force in America's devel­
opment.
In proof of this I point to the execu­
tive lioads of tho loading corporations 
of this country, and I defy you to point 
to a- single ono .who holds his post 
merely because of his wealth and not 
because of his ability.
Oil Industry Development.
A striking illustration of the neces­
sity for combined capital in modern 
business is found in the great petro­
leum companies that pierce the breast 
of a thousand fields from North to 
South. In the early days when devel­
opment depended upon the energy and 
capital of individuals, two dry holes 
in a wildcat territory spelled disaster 
for the individual and frequently
I ended for years the development of all 
I adjacent territory. Had that precari­
ous method of development continued 
; the world would be dark for want of 
i illumination and its bearings would 
he burned out for lack of lubrication, j 
j Fifteen years ago our oil business 
was appraised at $2,750,000,000, while 
! today it exceeds $8,000,000,(¡00.
The development of these fields has 
involved the construction of transpor­
tation systems, the problem of labor, 
the training of native workers to new 
tasks. Next came, the problems' in­
volving sanitary conditions in tropical 
i countries. While' an ordinary single 
j field in the United States could be de- 
I veloped and its product marketed with 
ease in six months, it has required 
j six years to develop some of the fields 
in South and' Central America, and 
I money frequently in excess of $25,000,- 
j 000. The development of a single 
J field In Colombia and the construction 
of a pipe line to tide water by a sub- 
' sidiary of the Standard Oil Company 
I of New Jersey required an expenditure 
; of $45,000,000 before exports of oil 
; were possible.
The Story of Steel, 
j With the birth of the twentieth cen- 
i tury the real possibilities of the steel- 
; industry were revealed in the drfeams 
| of those geniuses who saw in the dis- 
j lance tlie virtue of single control of 
; all the operations from the mining: of 
the ore to its smelting into- iron, and 
! the conversion of iron into steel and 
‘ steel products. Hi its first 25 years 
¡the United States Steel Corporation 
rdid an aggregate gross business of 
j $23,4-11,000,000.
In 1906 it inaugurated its .safety, 
sanitation and welfare campaign to 
protect its workmen from injury or 
death, and to master the best methods 
in science, economy and sociology, in; 
order to promote the health, comfort 
and efficiency of its employes and 
their families.
As a result, in 1925 serious acci­
dents were 60 per cent less than in \ 
1906, and disabling accidents were 80 
per cent less than in 1912. In other 
words, 47,000 men were saved from 
serious injury and 322,000 men saved 
from, any injury which would have re­
sulted in loss of time.
Combined Capital Develops Aluminum
When the Aluminum Company of 
America was incorporated in 188S, 
aluminum was a laboratory metal of 
scientific interest only, with its uses 
unknown to industry, while its cost of 
eight dollars per pound deprived it. of 
commercial value.
As a result of its perseverance and 
the combination and additional invest­
ment of capital through many years 
of adversity, this Company has intro­
duced aluminum to. the World, discov­
ered uses for it- in practically every 
industry, and has reduced’ its cost 
3200 per cent to 27 cents per pound.
The Electric World.
Another conspicuous contribution 
of combined capital to the health, 
comfort and convenience of mankind 
Is found in the electric industry.
Tn 1879, after searching the world 
and testing 3,000 different materials, 
Edison produced the first incandescent 
electric light, by means of a carbon 
/I lament.
The General Electric’s development 
of tho Mazda lamp In 17 years has 
added 600 per cent efficiency to scien­
tific lighting. While the prices of 
other commodities have risen in 12 
years from 100 to 250 per cont, the 
average price of the electric lamp has 
increased less than 1 per cent..
Fascinating Field of Research.
In the Westinghouse laboratory is 
an apparatus which tests pieces of 
steel magnetically without destroying 
or even marking the specimen.
Another marvelous invention makes 
possible the carrying of electricity in 
one direction and not the other, a one­
way electric highway.
The fruit of combined capital’s re­
search is also found in the submarine 
detector, the wireless messenger that 
baffles space and time, new motors 
for industries," more efficient electrifi­
cation of steam roads, rural electric 
service extension to farms and domes­
tic electric appliances from refrigera­
tion to radio.
The Machine Relieves the Man.
Combinations of capital have effect­
ed countless improved methods in 
various other lines of production. 
These include the increasing utiliza­
tion of machinery and power; the In­
troduction of various sorts of labor, 
devices and mechanical methods; the 
growth of mass production '¦of stand­
ardized articles; the elimination of 
waste; the intelligent discounting of 
the future market requirements by 
planning production in relation to gen­
eral business conditions and coming 
needs, and other economies resulting 
from improvements in methods and 
management. Then comes the substi­
tution of new products for old, such 
as comont and steel for lumber and 
other building products, cigarettes for 
cigars, and baker's broad and factory 
canned goods for tho old-fasliloned 
products of the housewife.
Capital and Farmer.
The effects of less pretentious com­
binations of capital and wider invest.;, 
ment units are also revealing them­
selves in the agricultural world. 
While farmers are drifting to the 
cities, farms themselves are not being 
abandoned. A recent study of a sin­
gle Kansas county discloses the fact 
that in 20 years the number of farms 
decreased, with a loss in farm popu­
lation, but not a single farm was 
abandoned. The smaller farms de­
creased, but the larger farms in-
NATIONAL THEATER IS 
PROPOSED AS MEMORIAL 
TO BURNS AND SCOTT
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
In Paying Tribute to Scottish Bard,
Profesor Grierson Declares That 
Happiest Poetry Was Written 
by Hard-Working Com­
mon People
Edinburgh — A proposal for a na­
tional theater here as a memorial to 
Buriis and Scott was made recently, 
by Professor Grierson at the eightieth 
annual meeting of the - Edinburgh 
Club.
He thoughi or me theater at 
Wiemar with the statue of Goethe. 
What, would it not mean to have in 
Edinburgh a national theater with the 
statues of Scott and Burns facing each 
other. A theater not .“highbrow,” but 
which would include every form in 
which humanity could express itself, 
from the wildest farce to the noblest1 
tragedy, a theater to which Scotsmen 
Could look to express the drama in 
the most interesting way.
Burns, the proressor said, had be­
come Scotland's representative, yet 
he did not express everything in the 
Scottish people nor was he even the 
chief voice of all the traditions one 
thought of In connection with Scot­
tish,history. Burns was not the voice 
of the romantic tradition in Scottish 
history ahd literature. Though he 
loved ballads he made no attempt to 
write in that vein. He stood too 
solidly to be a romantic poet. He was 
a peasant and a realist and wished 
to deal with real things. Nor would 
anyone look to Burns as the voice 
of what Carlyle thought the greatest 
—the most poetic thing in' Scottish 
life—its religious feeling.
What then, was it in tlie Scottish 
people’s love of literature and tradi­
tion to which Burns finally gave con­
summate and classical expression? 
He thought it was the tradition em­
bodied in his own times in two sec­
tions of Scottish literature—Scottish 
songs and those poems in which some 
of the old makers had early devel­
oped a peculiar genius for treating 
in a. realistic and humorous spirit the 
tilings of everyday life. It was an 
enormous advantage for any artist to 
enter .into a tradition, not to have to 
invent the forms he was going to 
use. What Burns sought to do was to- 
put into them a new spirit.
ENGLISH UNIVERSITIES AND 
COMMERCE
London, Eng. | 
Special Correspondence, i 
I The greatest development ih con-j 
I noetion with the universities of j 
Great Britain is still to come, | 
and it will come when these great 
! centers of learning .expand their 
j functions to supply the needs of com- ! 
I merce. From the universities the i
Youth of today, as we all know, is 
much maligned. Of all the criticisms 
levelled against this aspirant genera­
tion, the most fai^searcliing is of 
course the claim that it is utterly god­
less, that it frankly jeers at moral 
decalogues and passes up in contempt 
theology of the ancients.
Dr. Clarence C. Little who is presi­
dent of the University of Michigan, 
has recently grappled with, this prob­
lem. He is an able spokesman for 
youth as he is a young man himself 
and as he has a notable record of 
achievements in his short term as ex­
ecutive head of one of the largest -of 
American universities. Dr. Little 
presents for consideration a “Bill of 
questions” which epitomizes the re­
ligious puzzle as it strikes the experi­
ence of our liberated youth. First, 
there seems to be an apparent incon­
sistency on the part of the elders with 
respect to tlie problem of death, as on 
the one hand, a belief is held in a 
happy immortality and on the other 
hand, strenuous efforts arp expended 
to sustain the weak, the helpless and 
the diseased. On the matter of birth, 
the traditional religions are in an ap­
parent contradiction to practical ethi­
cal demands, because thousands of 
unwanted children are born, certain­
ly, not out of love and solicitude and 
fond parentage. Law is held up as 
an inviolable standard of conduct, yet 
its disregard is winked at on every 
hand. As for the political relation­
ships within the state and between 
states, the ideals expressed by the 
leaders rarely harmonize with the 
grossness and self-seeking selfishness 
of all concerned. In the domain of 
sex relationships, they become scepti­
cal of the preachments that these 
should 'be held fast by social pressure 
and economic need, “where mental 
and spiritual death lias already oc­
curred.” Above all things, how expect 
young men and women to rally to the 
support of a clergy which still spends 
most of its time picking over “the 
dry bones of theology," as the infalli­
bility of the Bible-and such scholas­
ticism.
The crux of the dilemma is the an­
cient problem of redressing and revis­
ing thé accoutrements of the religious 
institutions. Life is heedless of the 
past, and in the revolutionary changes 
that have come upon life within re­
cent years, much of the old religious 
expressions take on .faded, queer 
shades. The churches treasure the 
antiquated ways because within their 
portals all objects and methods are 
soon covered over with the pall of 
sacredness which resists change. In 
the busy streets and the marts of 
trade, and in the councils of the states­
men, the old and tried ways are soon 
tested up by the exigencies of the 
problems to be faced at once. But 
within the sanctum of the church and
Nation now- receives lawyers, arclii- I 
te’cts, teachers, builders and engineers. 
Soon it will receive from them bank- j 
ers and accountants also. These | 
are the words of Principal A. E. Mor- | 
gan, of Hull University College, who j 
delivered a lecture on “The Univer- ] 
sity and the University College, as 
one of a course of lectures on “The 
Nation and Its Schools.” The course 
consisted of 10 lectures, and has been 
delivered by various persons, each 
an authority.
Mr. Morgan pointed out that while 
the medieval universities were nurs­
eries of administrators, in our own 
more complex times the duty fell 
upon the universities of training 
specialists for every profession and 
skilled workers for manifold voca­
tions. But Mr. Morgan insisted on a 
certain safeguard or condition as be­
ing essential to the preservation of 
the Integrity and high purpose of the 
universities, and that was the avoid­
ance of anything like the complete 
technicalization of knowledge. The 
ultimate aim of the university, he 
pointed out, is to extend the limits 
of knowledge; and it is the duty of 
the staff by study, experiment and 
speculation to pursue the search after 
truth. At the same- time the univer­
sity should give such a training in 
the liberal arts that 'its alumni will 
become adaptable men and women of 
affairs. Thus if teachers, lawyers 
and architects learn their technique at 
the university those who choose a 
commercitl career may reasonably de­
mand a. similar training through a 
curriculum which admitted shorthand, 
filing and accountancy. '
the mosque and the temple, the shades 
are dim and all is hallowed with the 
exotic cloak of long ago. it is no won­
der, {hen, that the youth, fresh, eager 
and virile should in all times thrust 
embarrassingly impertinent querries 
up to the guardians of the hoary tenets 
of creeds.
The scriptures and scrolls were 
laboriously copied out in lands far 
asea, in a life extremely removed in 
all its details from that surrounding 
us today, and the only life after all 
which most of us know. For the 
young man today set down in oui' 
hurried, complex, strenuous existence 
dominated by huge industrial giants 
and mechanisms, the placid, bucolic 
life of the ancient shepherds seems 
.so immeasurably remote. Personal 
relationships are so altered. The 
world has moved but the religious in­
stitutions stay implanted, lulled into 
quiescence -by the dreams of ancient 
splendor and glory.
Not that young people today cannot 
be inspired by the lordly eminence 
and poetic beauty of the prophets and 
the saints—not that we cannot be up­
lifted by the unforgettable tales and 
utterances of the religious genius of 
all times and ages—not that we do 
not live tlie more profoundly in the 
direct worship of the givers of life 
and light—but rather that we cannot 
often fathom tlie hypocritical - stric­
tures of the pillars of the church and- 
the mouthpieces of the public moral­
ity. As Dr. Little justly observes, the 
lamentable fact is that by lip-service 
to the-letter of outworn customs, and 
utter obtuse living on the other hand, 
the models of deportment are dis­
turbing to the natural obedience of 
the young. One instance alone will 
suffice and that is the question of na­
tional politics. The unending investi­
gations of the conduct of recent na­
tional campaigns is now uncovering 
a record of venality, bribery and in­
timidation by public officers as has 
been unequalled perhaps in our his­
tory. How then expect respect for 
the glib preachments with'respect to 
the moral duty to vote and the glories 
of democracy?
There lias never been discovered a 
people or a generation that has been 
g9dless. And in the same way, the 
modern generations are also at basis 
worshipful. But the apparent incon-. 
sistençy that has been demonstrated 
on the part of the older men of recent 
years has caused a revulsion toward 
religious matters. In our own way, 
however, a new expression of the fun­
damental nostalgia of men for divine 
guidance and an outpouring of love 
for eternal truth will * undoubtedly 
cause an upwelling in the hearts of 
the dizziest modernist. Only it is 
unjust to expect us to deal- in the de­
based, counterfeit cpin used for small 
change by thé older generations.
NATHAN MILLER.
THISTLEDOWN
creased, indicating a merger of the 
former.
The Telephone.
Nowhere in all the records of fact 
or fable is there a more fascinating 
story than that of the development of 
the telephone. The American Tele­
phone and Telegraph Company com­
mands our confidence and arouses our 
admiration because from its inception 
it has ben illustrating in countless 
ways the virtues of comblneu capital.
A Silent Revolution.
In a word, wo are passing through 
an industrial and social revolution, and 
the glory of it all ies in the fact that 
it is revolution, and the glory of it all 
lies in the fact that is a peaceful one. 
Children are not being crucified head 
downward upon a cross, no torture 
chambers are emitting cries of pain, 
no bastilles are being stormed by hun­
gry mobs, no streets lined with gibbets, 
no rivers are running with blood—but 
a revolution born of co-operation is 
scattering the fruits of prosperity as 
it travels on. But our task is not com­
plete, for we must toil as we travel on 
and build as we go.
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle
Thistledown appears this week 
blushing with pride. It it were possi­
ble he would have himself printed in 
red ink. He has been commended by 
the editor. Alas, Mr. Editor, Thistle­
down is afraid that his brief column, 
and your hearty comment, will make 
little onslaught against the barbaric 
practices of Tech sophomores. Haw- 
haw Hell Week, ridiculous regula­
tions! . Is there no one but Thistle­
down and Mr. Editor to raise a voice 
against them? Were you surprised, 
Mr. Editor, at the coincidence of our 
viewpoints? But reflect, Mr. Editor, 
we have bulled tlie matter over to­
gether. Are you perfectly sure, Mr. 
Editor, that 1 am not a member of j 
your own excellent fraternity?
Thistledown is happy to read that 
Dean Green has returned deeply im­
pressed. 'He had noticed it immedi­
ately, anyway.
Thistledown reads that the sopho­
mores intend to cut some plebe hair 
April 10, if any plebe appears without 
costume. Now Thistledown has re­
cently been asked -to participate in 
the secret vaudeville show Campus 
Week. He intends to impersonate an 
American Indian, modern midw.estern 
type. Will the sophomores carefully 
gather" all the- hair- they cut off April 
10 and present it to him, so that he 
may glue it onto round pieces of1 bur­
lap and hang the result at his waist, 
for scalps? After using it -in that 
way, Thistledown promises to unglue 
it and distribute it among the sev­
eral learned ^societies which have 
lately been corresponding with him 
about his article in the Tartan on 
sophomores as barbers. One erudite, 
secretary who asked for a specimen 
of plebe hair pointed out that such 
atrocities as Thistledown ridicules 
are in the line of direct descent from 
paleolithic days. He asked whether 
the sophomores here have any of the 
paleolithic traits such as low, sloping 
foreheads, hairy necks, long ferocious 
teeth, whether they ever dropped oyer 
to use their hands as paws in order 
to cover ground rapidly, whether they 
showed any tendency to use clubs. 
Thistledown replied in as scholarly a 
style as lie has been taught to write 
that some of them gave evidence in 
their actions of low mentality, and 
that many of them could certainly be 
described as club using bipeds. This 
knowledge loying secretary promptly 
wired Thistledown an enticing offer
for a stripped sophomore in a glass 
cage, to be used for observational 
purposes in his laboratory. He asked 
particularly that Thistledown get him 
one of the campus regulation-enforc­
ing, fraternity paddle-swatting kind. 
He believes confidently that having 
secured such a specimen he can prove 
it to be nothing more than a previ­
ously unrecognized kind of ape or 
monkey. He added that he suspected 
there would be some similarity be­
tween what he asked me to send him. 
and the comriion domestic donkey. 
Thistledown has other things to do 
than sopohomore catching, but he is 
ready to give the address of the 
learned society which the secretary 
represents to any interested group of 
plebes.
Thistledown thinks that the Grill 
might wash its -silver clean. He is 
tired of having it stick to his fingers 
until he has to shake it off before hex 
can lay it down.
Thistledown wishes the Intra-Mural 
Briefer would enliven his column. 
Why not some notes like this? The 
S. P. E.’s easily trimmed the Alpha 
Sigs. Blank wSs' weaker on his legs 
than usual. He should have been 
taken out and put to bed. Pi Kappa 
Alpha defeated Boss Hall, but Boss 
Hall always has had too heavy feet. 
Blink tossed some beaut baskets for 
Phi Psi, but we wish he’d wash his 
shirt. Theta Xi needs to develop its 
passing game, in case as dark horse 
it gets the lead. Blunk seems to be 
the only Delta Tau who knows any­
thing about the game.
Thistledown can announce that Dr. 
Baker is enjoying London. By trans­
atlantic telephone Dr. Baker told' 
Thistledown that he was finding the 
weather there slightly cooler than is 
usual at this time of the year, but 
that there had been only one fog, 
which was of somewhat less than 
Pittsburgh consistency.
Thistledown is mournfully waiting 
for the arrival of spring vacation. 
What a nuisance it will be, and what 
an interruption to his studies!
Officers of the student government 
at Amherst College have resigned 
because of the practice of the school 
in dealing with infractions of rules 
and in employing a watchman to spy 
while an honor system was supposed­
ly functioning. Rather a dishonor- 
able way of treating an honor system. 
The students used a forcible means 
of expressing 'their resentment and 
no doubt the authorities will realize 
their mistake.
