the Tartan
Volume 67 — Number 14Wednesday, December 13, 1967
Civil Disobedience - Pro and Con
by George Madaras
As the Vietnam conflict wears on the anti-war movement has 
become increasingly militant. Unlike earlier pacifist efforts, the 
direct confrontation with police and militia in the marches on 
Washington (Oct. 21) and New York (Nov. 15) has given a new 
tone to the anti-war effort.
A recent example has been the Student Mobilization Commit­
tee’s designation of Dec. 4-8 as “Stop the Draft Week,” resulting 
in last week’s efforts at blocking local draft boards and induction 
centers and the mass return of draft cards to the Selective Serv­
ice System. This move represents a step against a legalized struc­
ture few are pleased to take. Reactions to this “call to a higher 
authority” vary widely—from Buckley’s solution of deportation to 
Chomsky’s hesitant co-operation. These two reactions are included 
here to help guide you in your considerations of such civil dis­
obedience.
These articles are two of 13 which were published in New York 
Times Sunday magazine, Nov. 26.
Wednsay ,nneaDc ,mb r1dd3nm19 rb16ds7 
Gyb13oy g9mM3sN C991henmhs rb1ksan
PROCON
by Noam Chomsky
Although I feel that resis­
tance to United States policy is 
justified—in fact, a moral neces­
sity—I do not think that dis­
sent should be abandoned. Crit­
ical analysis of American poli­
cy can extend opposition to this 
war and can help modify the in­
tellectual and moral climate 
that made it possible. Govern­
ment propaganda has shifted to 
a new position: American self- 
interest. Correspondingly, crit­
ical analysis can now be direct­
ed to such questions as these: 
Whose interest is served by this 
war? What motivates the hy­
sterical claim that if we do not 
stand fast in Vietnam we shall 
have to ftght in Hawaii and Cali­
fornia?—“a frivolous insult to 
the United States Navy,” as Wal­
ter Lippmann rightly comments. 
Would the richest and most pow­
erful nation in the world be 
justified in imposing such suf­
fering and destruction even if 
this were in its “self-intest”?
What justifies an act of civil 
disobedience is an intolerable 
evil. After the lessons of Da­
chau and Auschwitz, no person 
of conscience call believe that 
authority must always be obey­
ed. A line must be drawn some­
where. Beyond that line lies civ­
il disobedience. It may be quite 
passive, a simple refusal to take 
part in Government • initiated 
violence. An example Is refusal 
to pay war taxes; refusal to 
serve in Vietnam is a far more 
meaningful, far more courage­
ous example. It may involve 
symbolic confrontation that be­
comes civil disobedience When 
the participant stands his ground 
in the face of Government force. 
It may go well beyond such 
symbolic acts.
Each citizen must ask him­
self whether he wishes to take 
part in the annihilation of the 
People of Vietnam. He has a 
range of actions available to 
him. Docility and passive ac­
quiescence is one possible course. 
It is the course of full com­
plicity in whatever the Govern­
ment will do in his name.
The limits of civil disobedi­
ence must be determined by the 
extent of the evil that one con­
fronts, and by considerations of 
(Continued on Page 8)
by
William F. Buckley, Jr.
Of the two grounds for dis­
obeying civil authorities, the 
first—that the United States is 
not legally at war because Con­
gress hasn’t gone through the 
drill specified by the Constitu­
tion—strikes me as particularly 
phony. To begin with, it is be­
ing used by gentlemen whose 
lives are scarecly lived in script­
ural fidelity to the Constitution. 
If the head of the American Bar 
Association were to decline to 
support the Vietnam war on the 
grounds of its shaky constitu­
tional genealogy, that is one 
thing. But when the Constitu­
tion is suddenly discovered by 
Dwight MacDonald, one puts 
that down (or at least I put that 
down) to opportunism. It isn’t 
that the question doesn’t worry 
me, it does. A great deal of 
thought will have to go into the 
elision of general resolutions 
(like Tonkin) and all-out wars. 
But this isn’t the moment for 
such reviews, any more than 
the dark days of the Civil War 
were appropriate for question­
ing Abraham Lincoln’s use of 
his President powers.
On the second ground, it 
ought to be the individual’s 
right to refuse to go along with 
his community, but the commun­
ity, not the individual, should 
specify the consequences. These, 
in an enlightened society, should 
vary according to the nature of 
the insubordination, and accord­
ing as the insubordination is 
plausibly rooted in deep philo­
sophical attachments. For in­
stance, it seems to me right and 
obvious that a paifist should be 
permitted to remain far from 
even those battlefields at which 
the safety of the-pacifist is se­
cured, and right, also that young 
pacifists of draft age should be 
required to perform some duty 
or other, in some way commen­
surate with those performed by 
fellow citizens who are con­
scripted. But those others who 
ask to retain a personal veto 
over every activity of their Gov­
ernment, whether it is a war 
In Vietnam or the social or edu- 
(Continued on Page 10)
The Associated Students of 
California Institute of Techno­
logy (ASCIT) have proposed an 
undergraduate research pro­
gram for the study of the prob­
lem of iair pollution in the Lots 
Angeles Basin. Part of the proj­
ect involves bringing interested 
students from other universities 
to Cal Tech to work during the 
second or third quarter under 
Student Research Associates 
Program, an integral part of 
the project. Students at dame- 
gie-Mellon University have been 
invited to participate.
Last Sunday night, Dec. 3, Joe 
Rhodes, president of ASCII', 
spoke to a small group of stu­
dents in a meeting at Skibo 
about what has come to be 
known as the “Cal Tech Proj­
ect.”
The project is an attempt to 
attack the problem of air {pollu­
tion from both a technological 
and sociological standpoint. The 
Idea arose from the awareness 
of an unusual crisis confront­
ing American college students. 
Although the college experience 
sesltizes students to the prob­
lems of America, it makes no 
provision for these students to 
transform their concern Into im­
mediate, positive action. There 
is no way to overcome the ab­
stract, conceptual nature of most 
college courses, to accustom the
Sororities Pledge 
54 in Formal Rush
Panhellenic Council of Came- 
gde-Melkm University would Mke 
to announce the new pledge 
classes of the seven member 
sororities at the end of formal 
Panhellenic Rush. They are:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Ann Bail- 
inson, Jane Bard, Rochelle Dan­
iels, Cynthia Day, Donna Freed­
man, Terry Garfinkle, Marjory 
Kaplan, Wendy Kay, Doreen 
Schatfcner, and Wendy Weiss.
Chi Omega: Totney Button; 
Nancy Gallolgy, Laurel Fahanick 
and Carol Scheftic.
Delta Delta Delta: Jaine Gun- 
saulus, Steffi Gunther, Cheryl 
Haines, Susan Keener, Donna 
LaPietra, Margaret Laurash, 
Diane Marbuger, Kathy Strohl, 
Maureen Trotto, and Judith 
Weiner.
Delta Gamma: Mary Ambrose, 
Barbara Gordon, Ann Hoyt, Ca­
thy Hughes, Candy Keefer, Sue 
Muller, Sue Rickley, and Ann 
Weiner.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Bene 
Abrams, Pat Calvin, Martha 
Gyllanhaal, Barbara Hobbs, Ka­
thy Mar golds, Susan Peckleiser, 
Cheryl Rhodes, and Patricia 
Walter.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Judith 
Conway, Janet Datesh, Cynthia 
Davis, Margaret Kerr, Madja 
Kozmetsky, Norma Lang, Joan 
Nielson, Dorothy Stone, Norma 
Lang, Margaret Watson, Clau­
dia Wolfe, and Sandra Wolfe.
Sigma Kappa: Jean Beachley, 
Willi Silverman, and Susan 
Weinberg.
by Anne Runninger
students to the complex prob­
lems and massive bureaucracies 
which he immediately faces and 
must deal with upon graduation.
These problems, unresolved 
within existing structures, have 
prompted concerned educators 
to look for new and creative 
ways to change the undergrad­
uate experience. Cal Tech’s proj­
ect, developed by the undergrad­
uates themselves, is an attempt 
at such a creative change.
OBJECTIVES
The Research Project will face 
several major issues. In attack­
ing the problem of air pollution 
from both a technical and so­
ciological standpoint, methods 
will be created for efficient dis­
tribution of accumulated infor­
mation. This information and 
knowledge gained from research 
will be applied in an attempt to 
solve the air pollution problem.
By struggling with the prob­
lems of creating an organiza­
tion, communicating with it, and 
maintaining its efficiency, stu­
dents will prepare themselves to 
deal with institutions they will 
face in later life.
By bringing other students 
from many backgrounds to Cal 
Tech, the Project will further 
communication between the so­
cial sciences and technical sci­
ences, and allow free Inter­
change between students at Gal 
Tech and across the nation.
By training unskilled ghetto 
residents as laboratory techni­
cians, the project will provide 
the necessary technicians, sig­
nificantly contribute to the lives 
of ghetto residents, and vastly 
increase student knowledge of 
the ghetto.
The Student Research Asso­
ciates Program (SRA) involves 
bringing students from other 
schools to Cal Tech., housing
them while there, providing 
them with opportunities to take 
courses at Cal Tech or UCLA 
extension schoois, and involving 
them in the project. Approxi­
mately 45 students are expected 
to be at Cal Tech for the second 
term (January to March), and 
75 students for the third term 
(April-June).
The expected cost to the stu­
dent will be a $100 minimum 
with that money to be used to­
ward room and board. Other 
costs, including transportation, 
health services and courses at 
UCLA or Cal Tech, will hopeful­
ly be covered by research funds; 
although it is hoped that some 
students will be able to pay 
more than the $100.
SRA is looking for highly-mo­
tivated, intellectually • capable 
students. Applicants will be se­
lected on the basis of (1) aca­
demic standing, (2) willingness 
to work, (3) experience in re­
lated ftieJds, and (4) personal in­
terviews (to be conducted by a 
committee of C-MU students, 
faculty, stall and administra­
tion).
Hopefully, students who par­
ticipate in this highly innova­
tive project will be able to con­
tribute to similar projects which 
could be developed at C-MU.
Dr. Stever has expressed op­
timism for the project if it is 
handled and backed properly in 
the administrative sense. Dr. 
Schatz, Vice-president otf Aca­
demic /trains, stated that he 
would like to see every possible 
academic consideration given to 
participating students, although 
this would naturally have to be 
deaided on an individual basis 
with the student and his depart­
ment.
Both administrators have ex- 
(Continued on Page 10)
,ilirili Fs.sbs9B37 C9Bmaensc 
Wud leh1bc JsAscaedenm19
A C-MU campus referendum on Vietnam which was conducted 
last Friday by the AFPF revealed that the campus community 
would favor a de-escalation of that conflict. Voting tables open to 
all C-MU students and faculty were located in Skibo and Baker 
Hall from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm and in Doherty Hall from 1:30 
to 4:30 pm.
A total of 874 ballots were cast, expressing opinions from total 
and immediate withdrawal to the extension of the present conflict 
into Red China. Fifty-one of these ballots suggested that two or 
more of the alternatives be taken and are excluded from the table 
included here. Of these multiple vote ballots, a total of 54 votes 
were cast for de-escalation alternatives; 13 votes were cast for the 
middle alternative; and 43 votes were cast for the escalation al­
ternatives.
Of the remaining. 823 ballots—those with only one alternative 
chosen—the voting is presented by location of the voting table as 
well as the campus totals. Of these, 38.6 per cent favored escala­
tion of the present conflict, 6.4 per cent suggested a temporary 
bomb halt with peace feelers, and 54.9 per cent favored de-escalation 
of our Vietnam efforts.
Asked wfhether they felt their vote was an informed one, only 
124 answered that they were unsure, and 33 answered no. The un­
sure and not informed responses were roughly distributed In pro­
portion to the size of the voting black and did not differentiate the 
hawks'’ from the “doves.” Fifty point seven per cent o>f the un­
sure alternatives and 54.6 per cent of the no alternatives were cast 
by those flavoring de-escalation. Forty point three per cent of the 
(Continued on Page 2)

---------------------------------------------------

reos R A Gfv G,FG,( A tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO)
EDITORIAL
L3KK1bn .1b nys (s- W1ddsos
On the front page of last week’s Tartan there appeared an ar­
ticle outlining the proposal for the new College of Humanities and 
Soda! Sciences. The article encouraged the student body and fac­
ulty to study the report and submit their comments and criticisms 
to the committee which produced the proposal.
As was indicated in our last editorial, the committee hopes that 
a dialogue may be established between those responsible for set­
ting up the new college and the other members of the campus com­
munity. From such a dialogue, new and better proposals might be 
forthcoming which could result in the best final product.
We have read the proposal submitted by the committee, and 
while enthusiastic about its goals and overall approach to the prob­
lems of liberal arts education, we feel that the proposal can be 
improved upon. Most of our reactions were nather personal, how­
ever, and while some of them have been conveyed to Dean Stein­
berg and to the student committee studying the proposal, we don’t 
wish to attempt to rigorously defend them in this paper until we 
have studied the proposal more closely.
There is, however, one problem facing the new college which 
we believe to be of ¡paramount importance. The problem does not 
iso much relate to the proposal itself, as iit does to know the final 
set-up of the college will be implemented.
We feed that because of the nature of the proposal’s approach, 
in order for the new college to succeed it must have almost un­
limited financial and moral support from the administration.
In attempting to create a college experience which will be in 
many ways unique to this school, the college of H&SS will need 
a faculty of an expectional nature. N o matter how good the courses 
for the first two years, the metacurriculum, the special student proj­
ects, etc. took on paper, we will not have an excellent college un­
less we have the combination of faculty, financial resourses, and 
wide rang of course offerings necessary to put the proposal into 
action.
We are struck by the need for teachers with a great interest 
in teaching, who could establish the kind of close relationships 
with students which the committee feels, as we do, are impor­
tant. For example, in order for the freshman free seminar, in- 
vcS&ving informal meetings between a small group of students 
and its faculty advisor, to work well, an exceptional type of pro­
fessor is needed—one who can genuinely care for and understand 
the problems and thinking of his students and who will be able 
to effectively communicate with them. We feel that unless an 
effort is made to recruit and hold on to the right kind of faculty, 
the freshman seminar, as an example, could turn into a dismal 
failure.
Similarly, the nature of the proposed courses is such that 
teachers are needed with a wide range of knowledge and experi­
ence. Because courses, such ais those in history and the fine arts, 
can perhaps be described as interdisciplinary, professors are need­
ed who will be comfortable teaching outside their own little area. 
Likewise, the science and math courses must be taught by pro­
fessors who can understand the goals of students in the liberal 
arts, who dan make their courses seem relevant to an English 
or history major.
Our intention is not to imjply that the present faculty of C-MU 
isn’t equal to the task of teaching in the new college. Far from 
it. But we feel that by necessity, the faculty of C-MU must be 
enlarged to make courses available and to create needed depart­
ments in areas such as political science, philosophy, and sociology. 
In acquiring new faculty, the school should follow the guidelines 
Msted by the committee in its report. It should look for people 
who can handle the unique type of educational program proposed 
for the new college, and it should be ready to pay for faculty of 
the best calibre.
If we are going to create a new college, it should be one of 
the best colleges of humanities and social sciences. We have the 
personnel to plan for the best and the money, if used wisely, to 
pay for it.
The committee has produced, we feel, a praiseworthy pro­
posal. If it is given the consideration it deserves from students 
and faculty, whatever deficiencies it has can be alleviated. Un­
less the administration follows through with the programs out­
lined for the new college and gives it wise financial backing, it 
will miss the opportunity of creating for C-MU one of the best 
colleges of humanities and social sciences in the country.
the Tartan
LEN WANETIK 
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor ................................... LARRY SIKON
Business Manager ...........-..............JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor............................ SUZANNE LINDAMOOD
News Editior ................................ ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor .................. Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor ...................... Rich Steffens
Spots Editors ................-...................... Jim Janke
Ralph Swoboda
Photography Editor .................... Gordon Morris
Local Advertising Manager .... H. Karl Krummel 
National Advertising Manager .... Fredda Simon
Layout Editor ................................... Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor ............... Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor ......................  Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager .......... Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers   ................... Bob Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor................... ...........E. W. Seley
Letter To The Editor
Salary of Engineer 
Should be Raised
Editor, The Tartan:
The average engineering grad­
uate would like to consider him­
self a “professional” person, to 
be included in the same cate­
gory as physicians and lawyers. 
Whether or not this is a realis­
tic evaluation of his skills, the 
idea is prevalent. Because of 
this professional attitude, engi­
neers are generally not anxious 
to form unions; a good engi­
neer doesn’t want a union to 
“stifle his ambition,” and does­
n’t need a union to elevate his 
(self-) prestige. But how about 
his salary?
It is apparent that a truly 
professional organization, such 
as AMA, cannot be a model for 
an effective engineering organ­
ization if ¡increasing salaries is 
to be a reaison for the affiliation. 
Yet the thought of an engineer­
ing organization reverting to 
the typical union tactics for ob­
taining higher pay is disquiet­
ing. How then can the engineer 
get a better salary? Should he 
rely on the judgment of his 
employer or future employer to 
establish honestly his worth? 
Absurd, but that’s What is being 
done now! Judging from the 
range of offered salaries, indus­
tries have restricted a free mar­
ket by having agreed to set the 
value of the graduate engineer 
—a sort of union in reverse.
There is some hope that an 
engineer’s salary won’t be ex­
ceeded by that of a union brick 
layer. Industry is in great need 
of more engineers—so it says. 
Let industry show just how 
great that need is ... in terms 
of dollars. If on a few key cam­
puses an organization of new 
graduates were to demand high­
er salaries, the example would 
be set for all engineering grad­
uates. The new graduate would 
benefit directly; those already 
employed, indirectly. The prob­
lem, of course, is establishing 
such an organization — a prob­
lem that shall undoubtedly be 
overcome if engineers aren’t bet­
ter compensated soon.
R. Mickelson
E. Hemby
H. Bernstein
ACLU Offers 
Students Advice
Editor, The Tartan:
It is the function of college 
to transmit to students know­
ledge of the past, help them to 
take a meaningful part in the 
society of the present, and par­
ticipate in the making of the 
civilization of the future. In this 
pursuit, students are likely to 
attain greater maturity and 
make greater contributions to 
society if they are corded the 
widest possible freedom of dis­
cussion controversy and dissent.
Implementation oft his freedom 
takes many diverse and com­
mendable forms. In the light of 
recent occurrences on some col­
lege campuses, however, the 
American Civil Liberties Union 
considers it important to em­
phasize that it does not approve 
of demonstrators who deprive 
others of the opportunity to 
speak or be heard, or physically 
obstruct movement, or other­
wise disrupt the legitimate ed­
ucational or institutional pro­
cesses in a way that interferes 
with the academic freedom of 
others.
We say »this although we are 
not unaware of the fact that 
some young people are moved
AFP F Referendum
(Continued from Page 1 )
unsure and 42.5 per cent of the no alternatives were cast by those
favoring escalation.
The alternatives presented on the ballot and the distribution
of their choices were:
Alternatives
1. Total and immediate withdrawal
of all U. S. forces................................ 94
2. Turn the conflict over to UN 
forces and begin gradual with­
drawal of U.S. forces.........................
3. Cease all offensive actions and 
begin negotiations with N. Viet­
nam and NFL .....................................
4. Stop the bombing temporarily and
send out peace feeler s ......................
5. Continue the present policy of
gradual escalation with hopes of 
forcing N. Vietnam and .the NLF 
to the conference table......................
6. Increase U. S. military commit­
ment, possibly with a formal dec­
laration of war ..................................... 107
7. Extend the present conflict into
Red China .................................................
Total Votes Cast ................................ 516
BHSkiboDHTotal
94524150
935911163
93379139
3021253
925011153
1073314154
74011
51625651823
New Publication 
for Student Poetry
Wesleyan University Press is 
now inviting submission of 
of poems from undergraduates 
in American colleges and uni­
versities for inclusion in a new, 
semi-annual publication — to be 
launched in the Spring of 1968 
— entitled Alkahest: American 
College Poetry.
Submissions are solicited sub­
ject to the fallowing conditions:
1. Poems must be original and 
not previously published ex­
cept in local campus publica­
tions.
2. The poet must be an enrolled 
undergraduate student in an 
institution of higher education 
in the UJS.
3. The poet's name, institution, 
and address must appear on 
each page of material submit­
ted.
Tartan 
8" x 10" Photos
?
FOR SALE - 25 CENTS EACH
?
Pictures in past issues and 
many others that were not 
published. Come to Tartan 
office, room 50, Skibo every 
Monday afternoon, 4:30 to
5 p.m.
by conscience to use extraordi­
nary means in the belief that 
ordinary means have failed in 
creating a more just and equal 
social order, but such young 
people must be prepared to ac­
cept responsibility for their ac­
tion.
Regulations governing demon­
strations should be made by 
the administration and faculty 
in consultation with students 
within the framework of the 
broadest concept of civil liber­
ties and should be public. Due 
process should be observed 
where infractions are charged.
American Civil 
Liberties Union 
Greater Philadelphia Branch 
260 South 15th Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19102
4. Letter of recommendation sup­
porting submissions will be 
ignored and submissions ex­
ceeding five pages will be un­
der a marked disadvantage.
5. The publisher will ¡pay, on 
publication, $3 for each poem «)] 
accepted.
6. The editors cannot, unfortun- 
ately, provide evaluative or 
critical comments on rejected 
poems.
7. Submissions will not be re­
turned unless accompanied by 
a self-addressed stamped en 
velope.
8. Although reasonable care will ^ 
be taken, the publisher will 
not be responsible for lost 
manuscripts.
Submissions for the Spring,
1968, issue will be accepted un­
til February, 1968; for the Fall,
1968, issue, until Sept. 10. Ad­
dress all submissions and cor­
respondence to Wesleyan Uni- , 
versity Press, Middleton, Conn. S‘ 
06457.
Selection will be made by a 
committee of undergraduates 
composed of Paul Flavell, Uni­
versity of Connecticut; Slandra 
Gary, Mount Holyoke College; 
Andrew Gaus, Wesleyan Univer­
sity; Kathleen Norris, Benning­
ton College; James L. Price, 
Dartmouth College; Lawrence ^ 
Raab, Middlebury College; and 
Michael Wolfe, Wesleyan Uni­
versity, chairman.
Alkahest, to be issued in April 
and November of each year, will 
be 7” by 10” in size, 80 to 96 
pages per issue, paperbound, 
available as single issues or on 
a standing-order basis at 95c per 
issue—wherever books are sold, 4] 
or from the publisher.
TARTAN BASKETBALL
NOW ON WRCT!
Oaf,oem9cnrdeas Gm7s
Jsai IiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiteP9sc63bo iiiiiiiiiiYiif17sSRUEZ Ki7i
Jsai )ZiiiiiiiiiiiiiiGyms. iiiiiii ii,-ePSwUZZ Ki7i
Jsai )ZNNiiiiiiiiiiig9mhsbcmnP 1. F1ayscnsbiiiif17sSwU)p Ki7i
Doc. )wiiiiiiiiiiiiWecs Gsayiii,-ePS wUZZ Ki7i
H19i A...iiiiiiiii zs9she iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii,-eP2wUZZ Ki7i
He9i 6iiiiiiiA t11cnsb iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii,-ePSwUZZ Ki7i
He9i )Ziiiiiii55Lni 0m9as9niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif17sSw4)p Ki7i
ls6i dmiiiiiiiiiiirmnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif17sSwU)p Ki7i
ls6i Eiiiiiiiiiiiiiiizs9she iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii f17sSRUEZ Ki7i
ls6i piiiiiiiiiiiitscn7m9cnsb iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif17sSwU)p Ki7i
ls6i )Ziiiiiiiiiitscnsb9 Fscsbhs 555iiiiiii,-ePSwUZZ ei7i
ls6i ):iiiiiiiiiiirs99 Lnensiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif17sSwU)p Ki7i
ls6i )Oiiiiiiiiiii,ddsoys9P 555iiiii,-ePSw!ZZ Ki7
ls6i R)iiiiiiiiiiiiiL4i 0m9as9n555555555iiiiii,-ePSwUZZ Ki7i
ls6i R:iiiiiiiiiiiizb1hs WmnP iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii if17sSRmEZ Ki7i
ls6i Rwiiiiiiiiiiiirmnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif17sSwU)p Ki7i
uebi RiiiiiiiiiiiiiitecyN e9B Hs..sbc19,-ePSwUZZ Ki7i
Brought to You by; HERTZ-RENT-A-CAR
WRCT... Power 9...900kc

---------------------------------------------------

tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO S Gfv G,FG,( S reos E
Ten Prominent Women Discuss 
The Roie of the Public/Private Woman
The meeting was called to order at 5 pm by Vice-president 
Tom Moore. Roll was taken. A quorum was present.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
1. Finance—A motion was made by Mr. Duckworth that the 
Senate support the following proposal to be presented to the Ad­
ministration :
I. An account is to be set up with Oarnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity in the name of Student Government to hold funds budgeted 
for the following categories:
A. Activities ......... .........................................................................$28,185
B. Fall Festival and Spring Carnival................................................ 8,000
C. Assembly Speakers .............................................................................. 6,000
D. Reserve Fund............................................................................ 5,000
TOTAL................................$47,185
II. All organizations receiving major ($1,000 or more) appro­
priations from the activities budget will be granted that appro­
priation for the year, but will have their financial status reviewed 
at the end of each semester by the Senate, at which time changes 
in the appropriations may be made.
HI. Major changes ($500 or more) from the activities budget 
of an organization in its expenditures must be approved by the 
Senate.
IV. A special committee of Senate and Faculty members 
shall be iset up for the purpose of obtaining speakers for the es­
tablished assembly periods.
V. The Student Government Reserve Fund shall be a reserve 
account for alii activities.
A. The Senate shall have the authority to appropriate funds from 
this account for purposes not included in the Activities budget.
B. This fund shall be the responsibility of the Finance Commit­
tee of the Senate.
C. Funds from this account can be drawn only with the signa­
tures of the treasurer of Student Government and the co-or­
dinator of student activities.
VI. The total allocation to the account shall be determined by 
the beginning of the academic year. The Senate shall have the au­
thority to re-allocate the funds within the account.
VIII. All activities shall be financially responsible to Student 
Government. All financial business between activities and the Uni­
versity shall be conducted through Student Government.
THE MOTION WAS PASSED.
2. Rules—Mr. Baer reported on the following amendments:
I. A proposed amendment concerning the requirements and 
duties of the Student Government treasurer was tabled.
II. The following amendment was brought to a vote: Article
2, Section 2, Part B, of the Constitution be amended to read: Each 
constituency shall be able to send one Senator per each 100 con­
stituents or majority fraction thereof. A constituency without the 
required number of candidates and therefore without enough rep­
resentatives to fill all of its alloted seats will lose these seats.
If the total number of seats not claimed by the above procedure 
Vol less than seven over all and no more than two in any constituen­
cy these seats will remain vacant. If there are more than two in 
any constituency, another election will be held with Senators elect­
ed AT LARGE from the campus. All vacant seats will be open, 
but any not claimed will remain vacant and not be considered as 
part of a quorum.
THE AMENDMENT WAS PASSED and sent to the President.
III. Two other proposed amendments were tabled until the 
next session.
NEW BUSINESS
1. It was moved that the Senate appropriate $2,000 from the 
Reserve Fund for Spring Carnival Committee. This to be used to 
get better entertainment while keeping the ticket price down. It 
was stipulated that Mr. Witchner submit a report accounting for 
its expenditure.
THE MOTION WAS PASSED.
2. The American Foreign Policy Forum’s request for an ap­
propriation will be sent to the Finance Committee.
The Senate adjourned at 5:35 pm and will readjoum on Dec.
12 at 4:30 pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo..
Schrank Receives 
Architectural Award
The Department of Architec­
ture recently announced that El­
liot Jon Schrank, a fourth year 
student, has been awarded the 
John Knox Shear Memorial 
Prize. Income from the award 
provides a traveling scholarship 
in architecture. The prize is a 
result of a competition held 
biennially, and open to fourth 
and fifth year students of ar­
chitecture. It is made in me­
mory of John Knox Shear, a 
former hea dof the Department 
of Architecture.
Keep CMU 
Beautiful
At a press conference last 
week ten prominent women dis­
cussed the role of the wife and 
mother and the role of the wom­
en as an active participant in 
community affairs, or even as 
the working wife.
The conference was part of 
the symposium The Public Pri­
vate Woman held on Dec. 6 and
7 at Chatham College
The symposium was chaired 
by Margaret C. McNamara, a 
Chatham trustee and wife of the 
Secretary of Defense.
Participating in the sympos­
ium were: Mary Virginia Bow­
den, senior economic anlyst, 
New York Life Insurance Com­
pany; Dorothy K. Goldberg 
(Mrs. Arthur J.), artist; Mary
C. Hazard (Mrs. Leland) mem­
ber of the Board of Education, 
City of Pittsburgh; Elsie H. Hill­
man (Mrs. Henry L.), chair­
man, Republican Executive Com­
mittee of Allegheny County; 
Lydia S. Katzenbach (Mrs. Nich­
olas B.), chairman, National Ne­
gro Students Fund; Esther 
Raushenbush (Mrs. Carl), pres­
ident, Sarah Lawrence College; 
Elspeth D. Rostow (Mrs. Walt 
W.), professor of American his­
tory, American University; 
(Mrs. Ralph D. Paine, Jr.), edi- 
tor-in-chief, Harper’s Bazaar, and 
Ruth R. Whitney, (Mrs. Daniel 
A.), editor-in-chief, Glamour.
The press conference opened 
rather pointedly, as several mem­
bers of the news media repre­
sented there quite openly asked 
Mrs. McNamara and Mrs. Gold­
berg how they coped with ru­
mors that their husbands would 
be changing their jobs. Mrs. 
Goldberg’s comment was, that 
“it is not easy to be a diplomat’s 
wife when one is not a diplo- 
mate himself.” When asked 
further if her husband was 
about to reign, Mrs. Goldberg 
quoted a 17th century friar, say­
ing: “Lies I never tell; the truth 
only to a few, and that’s not 
you.”
The tone of the conference 
changed, and the discussion cen­
tered on the symposium and its 
purpose. As Mrs. Rauschenbush 
stated, “This is important. 
We’re all women, all interested 
in education.” Mrs. McNamara 
added, "It is an individual mat­
ter,” whether or not woman feel 
pressured to get out of the home 
and active in community af­
fairs.”
The husband’s role was also 
discussed. According to Mrs. 
Whitney, when the women in 
the family works, “the husband 
can become closer to the child 
than normally happens. He 
takes on his own role as a par­
ent, rather than being merely a 
substitute mother.
That the husbands’ role is 
changing, becoming more active 
was the general consensus. This
has been primarily a postwar 
development. “The father is the 
missing quotient” in the family, 
according to Mrs. Rostow. Be­
cause of the necessary sharing 
within the family structures,
“in the end the family is better.’ 
Even the children can partici 
pate.
Commenting on the dual rol# 
of the public/private woman 
and how to cope with it, Mrs, 
McNamara said that “you grow 
with the situation and the en- 
vionment in which you find 
yourself.” The general feeling 
was that the dual role developed 
naturally — it happened, and 
wasn’t really planned. *
One of the most penetratin 
questions posed concerned th 
problem of the millions of Amer­
ican college women, now wives 
and mothers, who want to do 
something, but feel they lack 
the opportunity to become in­
volved. Mrs. McNamara's 
answer was to (concern) one­
self with the problems of middle 
class values, urban housing, and 
education. Awamess of this 
helps; it provides a channel for 
involvement.
Summarized the present sit- 
(Continued on Page 7)
INSURANCE - MOTORCYCLE AND SCOOTER
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGES
Trottnow Insurance Agency
281 -6619 - Phones - 281 -9000
************************************
We7K3c We7sbe Headquarters 
l8F ,XX }8gF 
rf8G8zF,rfCW (vvJL 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE I
3711 FORBES AVENUE }
Phone:683-2181 }
Student Discount on Most Items *******************************--**************
zFv,GvF 
rfCX,JvXrfC, 
Lv(C8FL ,(J 
zF,Jg,Gv 
LGgJv(GL C
Operation Native Son 
t,(GL }8gi
GedD aebssbc -mny zFv,GvF rymdeBsdKyme s7V
Kd1Psbc -ymds P13$bs y17s .1b nys y1dmBePci 
W17s n1 nys Lysben19 f1nsdN Jsas76sb RON RwN 
1b RI 6sn-ss9 IUZZ ,iui e9B pUZZ riui u1bs 
nye9 )ZZ zFv,GvF rymdeBsdKyme sM3ed 1KK1bV
n39mnP s7Kd1Psbc -mdd 6s nysbs n1 Bmca3cc s7V
Kd1P7s9n 1KK1bn39mnmsc -mny P13i
8Ksbenm19 (enmhs L19 mc cK19c1bsB 6P Gys 
zFv,GvF rymdeBsdKyme Wye76sb 1. W177sbas 
e9B nys H39m1b Wye76sb 1. W177sbas .1b nys 
a19hs9ms9as 1. 13nA1.An1-9 a1ddsos cn3Bs9nc 
e9B csbhmas 7s9 a17Kdsnm9o nysmb 7mdmnebP 
bsM3mbs7s9nci
Operation Native Son

---------------------------------------------------

reos : S Gfv G,FG,( S tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO
>*r International
Hair Designer Expert 
Razor Sculpture Cutting
207 Oakland Ave.
Below Forbes Ave.Wedd TwRAEOEw
Original
f8gLv
of
¿vvl
PRIME ROAST BEEF
Served the Way You Like It
-PIZZA-
SERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALLDORMS! 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
¿2K1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
zds9hmddsc rb1B3anm19 cnebbm9o
Richard Burton • Elizabeth Taylor | 
[Alec Guinness •PeterUstinov
¦¦The ComediansJJ
lb17 nys 91hsd 6P Gfâtlâni GfCCflC
NOW 
SHOWING
Last 9 Days
PASSION 
AND TERROR!
cm719vLCJ')ZFvG
CO STARRINGmm97vL Weeed*FGfFFCFm F8LL
IN N'
TECHNICOLOR. T
A UNIVERSAL PICTURE
When I was younger, I had high hopes o* 
becoming a great philosopher.
'i*
V
In junior high, I got good grades, made some 
friends, made some enemies, and became 
a great promise to the English department.
We tried again. We wrote editorial after 
editorial to the school paper expressing hope 
for a freer means of expression. (They were
censored.)
'I
0
“
to
I began to fulfill their needs in print. (I am 
successful! I
In elementary school I was never called on 
because I knew the answeis.
I wrote four-line poems about nature. Every- 
body hated me.
In high school, the first thing I did was organ­
ize a student magazine.
I began -to learn about the masses. After all, 
the magazine was to have been published 
with their quarters.
i
il
1) am editor in chief of the Enquirer.)
Oh, there were stories, and poems, cartoons, 
and opinion. (Most of it was censored.)
I took a lesson from this. Fewer and fewer 
hated me. I began to understand their needs.
PATTERNS!! 
DEADLINE!! 
DECEMBER 15!! 
51 SKIBO
1b
124 CAMPUS MAIL 
HURRY!!!!
V OLD or HEW!
i / Hear The Music You WANT 
When You Want It!
:AGF,W*
u8JvX
• It TRANSISTOR
• GLEAMING CHROME
• SPEAKERS AND 
INSTALLATION OPTIONAL
Between Classes or at Study Break
-SCOTTY'S-OPEN TO SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
EI)L l8FuL ,0v(gv
i i i e9B i i i
F8gGv LN (8FGf 8l vG(, OI)j rv(( ,0v(gv
$1Q QC NORMAL DOWN PAYMENTWITH APPROVED CREDIT
ALL NATIONALLY ADVERTISED BRANDS
• I YEAR FREE WARRANTY •
Cl ÜZ) F ,n G8 LGvFv8 CL C0LG,gvJ ¿0 8d$F l,WG8F} v/rvFGL
OVER 50,000 TAPES
IN OUR LIBRARY —FROM BACH TO ROCK
“ASK HOW TO GET FREE TAPES'99*
? R X8W,GC8(L 4
WM. PENN HIGHWAY NEAR MIRACLE MILE SHOPPING CENTER Phone 372-3014 OPEN 10:30 A.M. to 9 P.M. DAILY
BUY THE 
BRANDS YOU KNOW 
AT SAMI PRICES 
AS THE 
IMITATIONS!
“MOTOROLA STEREO CENTERS”
(youmls oft
ONF OF THE 
GREAT FILMS 
OF OUR TIMERoberto Rossellini’sOPEN CITY
theTTarn erre 2IN'I'W
IGOCViLtjhÜ*gcuuem8u¿uCL
681-6.100
Lg(¿v,u
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized Aetmmw Dealer w-----------
S&S JEEP
PITTSBURGH
Lg(¿v,uSLCuW, Jv,XvF 
731-7000 
213 PENN AVE
tCX* C(L¿gFz
Student Film Fest 
Competition Opens
The Third National Student 
Film Festival, jointly sponsored 
by the Motion Picture Associa­
tion of America, Lincoln Center 
for the Performing Arts and 
the U. S. National Student As­
sociation, was announced re­
cently.
Four $500 grants, contributed 
by the MPAA, will be awarded 
to each of the first prize win­
ners in four categories: Anima­
tion, Documentary, Dramatic 
and Experimental films.
Judging will be done on the 
shortly.
The sponsors of the National 
Student Film Festival, a nation­
al program designed to honor 
the artistry and skill of student 
West Coast by a select panel 
of judges will be announced 
film-makers, to which all stu­
dents at accredited colleges and 
universities are eligible, are now 
soliciting entries fro mstudents 
throughout the United States 
with expectations of receiving 
an even greater number of en­
tries this year to this, the third 
annual student film - making 
competition.
Entry forms are available in 
Skibo 103.

---------------------------------------------------

tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO A Gfv G,FG,( A reos p
La1nay 9 L1Be Wecn
1. Voltaire and the Witches:
Voltaire—Alan Rowland/John Fisher 
Salia—Connie Thompson/Carol Nissenson 
Falma—Pat Thompson/Carol Nissenson 
Dr. Vinache—Bobby RasteUi 
Jailkeeper—Jim Hoover 
Duc de Riechlieu—Bemie Yannotta 
Mme de Chatelet—Peggy North
The Witches—Gloria Cohen, Judy Conway, Shellie Daniels, 
Gail Davidson, Jane Gillis, Lou Kaufman, Beth Powell, 
Dormine Shattner, Betsy Shorr, Lindsay Simmons, Elaine . 
Sollecits, Dale Steranka, and Danya Zeligman
2. What Is the Question ?
William Shakespeare—Mike Sugarman 
Dark Lady/Queen Elizabeth—Barbara Bralver 
Earl of Southhampton—.Nick Lemesh 
Cuthbert Burbage—Sheldon Bell 
Richard Burbage—Jim Salners 
James Burbage—Brad Walter 
Ellen Burbage—Ellen Jackson 
Maid—Dede Weinstein 
Driver—Manuel Perias
AND THE CHORUS AND MANY HILARIOUS VIGNETTES 
Fred Astor, Bill Burns, Bruce Chamberlain, Larry DiCarlo, 
Wayne Gibson, Carl Katsu, Frank Korbett, Ken Lutz, 
Dan McCarlney, Jim Plappert, Robert Porter, Richard 
Steffens, and John Sweeney.
Nancy AxeOrand, Jerranne Cahill, Cathy Cline, Dale Da­
vies, Lenore Engelmann, Barbara Foster, Susan McKin­
ley, Pamela Perry, Susie Plaks, Carol Preston, Sue Rob­
inson, Melon Roos, Joan Siege, Rachel Swartz, and Judith 
Weiner.
Horse—Dale Davies and Barbara Hanley
A.F.P.F.,Pan Hel Send
ume67 —N bmrr14V
Mod Eye Wear
Frame and Lens Replacement 
Prescription Filled 
Contact Lens Center 
STUDENT RATES
Room 505 
Medical Arts Bldg. 
3700 Fifth Avenue
*
* W 9
* . „ ****
TOM PFEIFFER
BS, Physics, Villanova, 
joined Bethlehem’s 
1962 Loop Course, now is 
an engineer at our 
$50-million research 
laboratories. At present 
Tom is studying advanced 
measurement methods for 
controlling basic oxygen 
furnaces and sheet-steel 
coating processes.
Xmas Cards to V.N.
The AFPF and Pan Hel have 
} co-operated in sponsoring the 
sending of 1,000 of the pictured 
Christmas Cards to American 
servicemen in Vietnam. Pan Hel 
has contributed a total of $50 
in their support of this non­
partisan project. The cards have 
been forwarded to Operation 
Christmas Card headquarters lo­
cated at Brigham Young Uni­
versity.
As has been previously noted, 
the membership of the AFPF is 
antagonistic to the presence of 
American armed force in Viet­
nam. However, AFPF has ac­
cepted this project as an affir­
mation of their good will to­
wards the individual soldier. 
“We would, of course, prefer 
that these men be brought back. 
We feel that our military ac­
tion in Vietnam cannot be de­
fended legally, morally, or prag­
matically. This does not alter 
l the fact that the men there are 
our former schoolmates, friends, 
and relatives. Although we will 
do anything in our power to 
bring them home, we wish them 
safety and a warm holiday per­
iod.”
Financial support for this card 
Project, the Vietnam referen­
dum, and the proposed forum 
series of lectures and movies de­
picting both sides of the Viet­
nam debate is still being dis­
cussed by the Student Govern­
ment
STAMP IT!
CG$L Gfv F,zv 
FvzgX,F 
u8JvX
,(} $^E3 LINE TEXT CZ
Gys .m9scn C(JvLGFgWGC¿Xv uvG,X 
r8W*vG Fg¿¿vF LG,uri 0m" 4 R"iSend check or money order. Be 
sure to include your Zip Code. No postage or handling charges. Add sales tax.
rb17Kn cymK7s9ni Lenmc.eanm19 z3ebe9nssB 
Gfv u8rr W8i
ri Zi ¿1x )wTRE Xs91x LM3ebs Lnenm19 
,GX,(G,N z,iN EZERT
MANAGEMENTMINDED?
Career prospects are 
better than ever at 
Bethlehem Steel. We need 
on-the-ball engineering, 
technical, and liberal arts 
graduates for the 1968 
Loop Course. Pick up a 
copy of our booklet at your 
placement office.
An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program
BETHLEHEM 
STEEL
SEETER
IN CONCERT
rFvLv(GvJ Ü0
Gfv rnGG.¿gFúf l8X*X8Fv n8WCvG0 
CW,F(v<<Cv<vCg8u nnm8ru
W,F(vWCv XvWGgFv f,XXi 8,*X,(J 
GCW*vG 8r ,JuCLLC8( $2*00
-nckcts fit Skibo desk, 1:00 to 5:00pm
8bmom9ed f1n J1o Ly1KKs
Over 10,000,000 Hot Dogs Sold
OPEN 24 HOURS 
Free Deliveries To Alt Dorms from 9 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. 
Minimum Order $2.00 
3901 FORBES AVE.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
Xm7mnsB v9oeos7s9n 89dP
¿vLG lCXu 8l )ITT!
11
(edm19ed L1amsnP 1. lmd7 Wbmnmac 
A Carlo Ponti Production
Antonioni’s
¿X8tAgr
Vanessa Redgrave
JehmB fs77m9oc 4 Lebey umdsc
COLOR
,9 m9cKmbsB 73cmaed nbm63nsi Gys h1mas 1. H1y9 l *s99sBPi Gys 73cma 1. 8dmhsb (sdc19i
impulse!

---------------------------------------------------

reos T S Gfv G,FG,( S tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO
ANTHONE REVIEW
Far From The Maddening Crowd
by Tony Lawrence
Perhaps I’m missing Thomas Hardy’s and Metro-Goldwyn- 
Mayer’s point that “the fates are irresistible” and there is often an 
unquenchable determination to endure, but nevertheless this 169 
minute, plus intermission, epic becomes a pictorial bore.
Producer Joseph Janni and director John Schlesinger obviously 
tried to make a film of sweeping beauty. In this attempt they are 
successful. Nicholas Roeg’s photography is often devastatingly 
beautiful.
The picture is & love story concerning Bathsheba Everdene, a 
captivating young woman, and the three men hopelessly in love 
with her. Gab rial Oak (Man Bates) is a sheep farmer whom she 
spurns because of his lower class background—only to be finally 
happy with him at the flick's end. Farmer Boldwool (great name), 
played by Peter Finch, is a successful neighboring farmer and mis­
takes a malicious valentine from Bathsheba as a romantic inquiry 
and fails in line with the quest for Bathsheba’s love. Finally, there 
is Sergeant Troy whom she foolishly marries only to be made mis­
erable by him later. Troy (Terence Stamp) is dashing, virile and 
remarkably suave, loses hiis life trying to get Bathsheba back after 
everyone had been led to believe he drowned. Farmer Boldwood 
shoots Troy dead and later hangs for the deed. That leaves only 
Oak and all live happily so on and so forth.
Not much to keep an audience for nearly three hours, you 
might say, even if brilliantly done. With its eternal length, poor 
editing and far too many long scenic shots, it is difficult to keep 
interested.
The performances are generally good. Julie Christie, perhaps 
the most exciting screen actress since Garbo, is a joy to watch— 
for a while. She had ia bit of trouble in handling the wailing, crying 
scenes; they were sometimes inconsistent. Her presence and beau­
ty, however, more than compensate for any minor fault.
Peter Finch is superb as usual. His manner of playing is ex- 
cellent. He uses inner thoughts and controlled emotion to complete 
his character. He was by far the most convincing. Often when he 
was in a scene where he had no dialogue he was the focus of at­
tention.
Alan Bates is good as Gabriel Oak. Watching his versatility 
improve from what he played in Zobra the Greek to Georgy Girl
to the recent King of Hearts and now this. He has a great face 
and obviously much integrity. The result is gratifying. The fault 
seems almost in Frederic (Two for the Road, Darling) Raphael’s 
screen play. This screen play is not nearly as insipid as Two for 
the Road and not quite as well done as Darling. The dialogue is 
appropriate and well constructed. The characters, as in seemingly 
all his films, are missing somewhere along the line. He doesn’t fill 
in enough for the viewer, so consequently no one cr res after awhile.
Terence Stamp was more adequate at playing himself. He 
comes from a school of actors that thrive on narcissistic roles. 
David Hemmings in Blowup, Michael Caine in* Alfie and now Stamp 
have an immense disdain and almost contempt for their women. 
A self interest that in many ways destroys them in the end. This 
is not meant as any type of comparison of the three pictures 
—only the similarity in the acting styles. Troy is not very com­
plex. We know he’s a rate from the beginning. The only time some 
compassion is felt is in the circus sequence where he dresses up 
for the afternoon performance, after feining drowning some time 
before. Bathsheba and Boldwood are in the audience and he des­
perately puts on a sympathetic in hopes that they might not rec­
ognize him. This is by far Stamp’s best moment in the movie. Pru­
nella Ransome gave excellent support as Fanny. She should be 
heard from again.
John Schlesiinger’s directing appeared marred by his lack of 
insight as to how the picture should be finally released. His han­
dling of the actors seemed good. They are about 20 farm hands in 
the film, all “Hardy country” types. They had some charm to them, 
though most of it contrived and unoriginal.
The properly and expected sweeping music is by Richard Rod­
ney. The New Yorker has suggested that perhaps these old dusty 
volumes should not be touched for movies. They should be put 
back up on the shelf and not tampered with; I am inclined to 
agree. In any event it is currently playing at the Nixon Theatre, 
downtown Pittsburgh.
Soup n9 Sandwich Shoppe, ^9nc.
Monday thru Saturday — 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Sunday — 10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
DAILY SPECIAL - 6 a.m. - 11 a.m.
2 STRIPS BACON - 2 EGGS - 2 PIECES OF TOAST 
HOMEFRIES - COFFEE - 55c
ALL TYPES OF SANDWICHES AND SOUP
WALLYS
CAMPUS-FAVORED.. 
? MEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
BATES FLOATERS 
FLORSHEIM
All
Popular
Prices!
? WOMEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
• WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES •
3612 Forbes Avenue (Across from Strand Theatre)
ACLU to Give Aid 
to Student Protester
The American Civil Liberties 
Union of Pennsylvania an­
nounced recetly that it will pro­
vide appropiate legal assistance 
to a student whose deferment 
is threatened because of parti­
cipation in anti-war demonstra­
tions.
The announcement was in re­
sponse to the October 26 me­
morandum of Selective Service 
Director Lewis B. Hershey to 
all members of the Draft sys­
tem suggesting that protestors 
be drafted since their continued 
deferment is “not in the nation­
al interest.”
Spencer Coxe, Executive Di­
rector of the American Civil 
Liberties Union of Pennsylvania, 
said that the drafting of protest­
ors is an abuse ofSelective Ser­
vice’s authority, and had al­
ready been successfully chal­
lenged in the courts. He cited 
last Janurary’s decision of the 
U. S. Court of Appeals for the 
Second Circuit which voided 
the re-classification of two Uni­
versity of Michigan students 
had been moved into I-A status 
following their participation in 
a sit-in at the Ann Arbor draft 
board protesting the Vietnam 
war.
Coxe pointed out that there 
are ample federal statues to 
deal with violations of the draft 
law, and that loss of deferment 
cannot be used as a form of 
punishment.
Many of the anti-war protests 
are legitimate exercise of free- 
spech, Coxe strssd, and “th na­
tional interest in free and open 
debate is in serious jeopardy 
if the draft law is distorted to 
punish free expression.”
Coxe said that students threat­
ened with loss of deferment be­
cause of their anti-war stand 
could reach him at ACLU head- 
fuarters, 260 S. 15th Street, 
Philadelphia, or could get in 
touch with the Greater Pitts­
burgh Chapter of ACLU at 1341 
Shady Avenue, Pittsburgh.
PHOTOS 
IN THE LAST ISSUE
?
MAINTAS dePLATAS 
by Jeff Evans 
GUALBERTO SALAZAR 
by Jeff Orling
Through the Looking Glass i i i
Throwing Stones at the Establishment
(An Open Letter To The Editor)
by Timothy Bay
Dear Editor,
If this school didn’t have an ostensible humor magazine al­
ready, your paper would be doing a pretty fine job. I don’t really 
mind having words misspelled in my column (last week’s column 
on Our Mother’s House), but when the last paragraph is entirely 
omitted then that is somewhat different—‘particularly since some­
one had the ingenuity to omit the most important part of the*^ 
article.
This, I find, is only another instance of a continuing series of 
insults: Curiously, the words that are generally misspelled or com­
pletely omitted, are the ones that are of vital importance. Through 
their misspelling or omisision, the whole meaning of what I have 
to say is often completely distorted.
In all fairness, I must admit that this was a problem I had 
last year; only this year it has become worse.
In general, I found the paper this week, as always, rather1^1 
forgettable.
The column “None Such,” written by two pundits under the 
pseudonym of Clyde and Clod (no doubt Gilbert and Sullivan in 
disguise), was a particularly inept job as writing, much less as 
“humor.”
I find through my residency in the Snack Bar that there is 
a general lack of enthusiasm, or for that matter, interest, in the 
paper. In general, the student body reaction towards the Tartan 
is one of morbid curiosity. There is justification for this, and I 
will go into it as simply as possible.
1. The articles are usually poorly organized. The lay out in 
fact looks like it was set up by a group of blind Chinamen. Taking 
your cue from the New York Times, your masthead should read: 
“All the news that’s to fit to misprint.”
2. The articles lack depth; there seems to be a lack of direc­
tion, in fact, a feeling of total confusion on the part of the staff. 
The paper is neither very good as a straight forward “newspaper” 
nor does it fulfill the more general, personal type of demands of a Q 
“feature” paper.
3. Certain articles I have found really unnecessary, for in­
stance Tony Lawrence’s nominal review of Forum in last week’s 
issue. There seemed, in this case, to be a lack of taste or humanity 
on his part; his generally derogatory remarks were not really 
dealt with in detail. This was a freshman student production, with­
out faculty supervision, and I really don’t see the point of review­
ing it at all. Even his few kind words, administered like candy to 
a baby, were rather insulting. I have already dealt with “None 
Such” and will pass over this gross ‘social error” in charitable 
silence.
Specifically on the side of positive suggestions:
1. More columnists who have things to say, and express a 
point of view that does not necessarily reflect the views of the 
editor, E. G. Barry Cornet.
2. A more interesting typographical layout. The paper in its 
current state looks like last year’s copy of the South Indiana Agri­
cultural Press.
3. Closer communications with specific activities in depart- 
menits:
Questions for the Day: This dramat would like to know — 
“What goes on in Machinery Hall”? There are quite a few engi­
neers who would like to know—“What really goes on in the Dranna 
Department?”
4. On a deeper level, I feel that there should be a serious
examination of the policies and goals of the paper.
Despite my present misgivings, I will continue to write for A
the Tartan; I feel that even in spite of its present shape, the Tartan "> ¦ 
still has great possibilities.
Sincerely, 
Timothy Bay
(Unlike your columnists • Twiddle Dee and Twiddle Dum, I 
do not need to masquerade under an assumed name.)
TEACHING Is For You
YOU NEED ...
• Bachelor's Degree
• A Liberal Arts Education
• Preparation in a Subject Area
• No Education Courses
YOU EARN.. .
• Master's Degree in Education
• Professional Certification
• $12,500 for two years
• Placement and Tenure
For detailed information write to: DR. RUSSELL A. HILL, Director
ITPCG Staff Member on Campus Wednesday Afternoon, December 13th.
See Placement Office for Appointment.
Intern Teaching Program for College Students
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY 
of the Commonthwealth System of Higher Education
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19122

---------------------------------------------------

tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO A Gfv G,FG,( A reos O
KEN PLATT
’ BS, Mathematics,
Penn State, joined the 
1964 Bethlehem Loop 
Course. Now he’s a 
computer specialist for the 
Accounting Department. 
Ken uses his mathematical 
knowledge to program 
financial, engineering, and 
mathematical problems. 
Ken is pursuing an 
advanced degree under 
' Bethlehem’s Educational 
Assistance Program.
MANAGEMENT 
MINDED?
Career prospects are 
better than ever at 
Bethlehem Steel. We need 
on-the-ball engineering, 
technical, and liberal arts 
graduates for the 1968 
Loop Course. Pick up a 
copy of our booklet at your 
placement office.
An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program
BETHLEHEM
TOM GIOSEFFI
BSMetE, U. of California, 
joined Bethlehem’s 
1965 Loop Course.
The former Golden 
Glove middleweight 
champ was assigned to 
our brand-new $20-million 
galvanizing line at 
Pinole Point, Cal., where 
he’s now assistant 
metallurgical supervisor. 
Among Tom’s many 
responsibilities: 
representing Bethlehem 
in technical dealings 
with customers.
MANAGEMENT
MINDED?
Career prospects are 
better than ever at 
Bethlehem Steel. We need 
on-the-ball engineering, 
technical, and liberal arts 
graduates for the 1968 
Loop Course. Pick up a 
copy of our booklet at your 
placement office.
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer in the Plans for 
Progress Program
BETHLEHEM
Publie I Private
(Continued from Page 3)
apt*
uation, stating that Mrs. Raus- 
chenbush this is the first full 
college generation, where wom­
en are so specifically presented 
with alternative careers, and 
means of involvement beyond 
the home situation. Their edu­
cation should reflect this and 
the college provide for it with­
in the curriculum. There are 
certain issues such as conserva­
tion, air pollution, urban housing 
and education which should be 
dealt with in order to educate 
women for their roles in society.
Shooters Win Four
by Harold Herre
The C-MU Rifle team now has 
a record of 6-2 a s aresult of 
the two wins over W&J, one 
over Duquesne, one over Indi­
ana, and a loss to Pitt.
On November 24, the Tartans 
shooters defeated the W&J ri* 
flers, despite poor range condi­
tions. The Tartan scores drop­
ped, but were still more that 
the opponents could muster. 
High for the match was 260 shot 
by sophomore Rich Boynton 
(C-MU). He was followed by 
Mankovich - 258, Sandgren - 248, 
O’Donnel-239, and Roth, for a 
team total 1241, against 1144 
for W&J.
Pitt scored an upset victory 
against C-MU at the C-M Uhome 
range on Dec. 1. The Panthers 
shot their highest score for the 
season, while the Tartans turn­
ed in one of their poorest 
scores. The team totals were 
Pitt - 1240, C-MU - 1220. High 
score was 250 shot by Kunyler 
(Pitt) and Breakbone. (Pitt). 
The five high men for C-MU 
were Boynton - 247, Mankovich- 
245, O’Donnell-243, Amold-241, 
Sandgren-244.
The C-MU rmped over W&J
WARA
Women’s Athletic and Recrea­
tion Association (WARA) is 
open to all women students on 
campus. Tarquans, synchronized 
swimming group, and intramur­
al tennis, volleyball, field hoc­
key, and competitive swimming 
are included in this semester’s 
schedule.
Resume Of Activities To Date:
The tennis team completed its 
fall season 1-0, beating Geneva 
4-2 at home. This year’s team 
is the strongest Tech has seen 
in recent years.
This year’s excellent hockey
and Duquesne in a dual meet 
on Friday. Sophomore Eric 
Sandgren led the Tartan shoot­
ers with a 256, followed by Man- 
kovich-251 Boynton-2’0, Arnold- 
247, and O’Donnell-243. The 
team finals were C-MU 1247, 
Duquesne-1057, and W&J-1188.
Saturday the Tech riflemen 
journeyed to Indiana and defeat­
ed them on their home range. 
Tartan scores rose, in spite of 
Indiana’s poor range. Tartan 
Team captain Ted Mankovich 
led with a 263 and was backed 
up by Sandgren-259, Roth-251, 
Wolf-248, and O’Donnell-236.
team received many bad breaks. 
Of six scheduled games, four 
had to be called on account of 
rain. The two remaining games 
ended in frustrating ties. C-MU 
was continually on the attack 
but was not able to show their 
advantage in the score.
Current And Future:
The volleyball team (1, 1, & 1) 
be playing matches against 
Point Park, Pitt, and Slippery 
Rock during the next two weeks. 
The final game is to be against 
Slippery Rock and will be play­
ed in the Women’s Gym at seven 
p m the night of December 12. 
Spectators are welcome.
The competitive swimming 
team held a tri-meet with Seton 
Hill and Pitt and a dual meet 
with Seton Hill. C-MU lost Both 
meets, but hopes for victory in 
a third meet to be held against 
Chatham are high.
Tarquansco - recreational syn­
chronized swimming) meets 
Tuesday nights from 7-9 pm in 
the pool. The club plans to pres­
ent a water show in March. The 
group, headed by Miss Fisk, is 
looking for new members. In­
terested persons should sign up 
with either Miss Fisk or Eileen 
Morrow.
Mohawk
makes
long vacations 
longer.r.r!
Jet Mohawk to the holidays. Who wants to fight that old fashioned motorized jazz. Don’t ground it. Fly it! That’s 
the way to an early vacation. Step aboard a Mohawk One Kleven fan jet or 227 Vista prop Jet. Live it up a little.
Make a long vacation even longer with Mohawk, (’all Mohawk reservations in your city and get a seat now. And 
(if you don't mind our saying so) there's no need to make a dozen reservations. One’ll do — there are plenty of 
seats to go around.
And. while you're home take advantage of Weekends Unlimited. It’s a vacation within a vacation. Fly anywhere 
Mohawk flies for one low fare of §30.00. Good Saturday and Sunday or Sunday and Monday on Christmas and 
New Years. Fly to the ski slopes, or to any of 75 cities in ten states and Canada (except Montreal). Check the 
Mohawk schedule in your city.
?!Have a merry” — MOHAWKs

---------------------------------------------------

reos w S Gfv G,FG,( S tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO
TARTAN
.i {e9masN vBmn1b 
bi c-161BeN ,cc1a vBi
Waynesburg presented an 18 
man team, of whom 14 were 
freshmen, and their tallest start­
er was 6’4”. Although the Tar­
tans had taller and more ex­
perienced players, the Yellow 
Jackets displayed a lot of poise 
in setting up their plays and 
in containing C-MU with a 2-3 
zone. Led by speedy 5’10” guard 
Tim Huet, Waynesburg took a 
14-12 lead at the ten minute 
mark of the first half. Strong 
rebounding by Mark Lang kept 
the Tartans in the game while 
they tried to solve the Weynes- 
burg zone by cross-court pass­
es and outside shooting. When 
Lang picked up his third per­
sonal foul and was replaced 
temporarily, C-MU seemed to be 
in trouble. But Bill Weborg be­
gan to find the range from the 
corner to decrease the six point 
deficit. When Barry Hummel hit 
a turn-around jumper from 18 
feet out, the score was knotted 
at 29. One final Weynesburg 
basket sent them into the locker 
room with a 31-29 half-time lead. 
Lang and Weborg each scored 
seven points to pace the Tartans 
in the first half.
C-MU started the second half 
with two decisive adjustments. 
They departed fro mtheir usual 
man-to-man coverage and used a
2-1-2 zone defense instead. Also, 
Meister and Stobbe remained in 
the game in the backconrt with 
Hummel and Weborg up front 
and Lang in the pivot. A nota­
ble change in the Waynesburg 
lineup was the absence of Tim 
Huet who pumped in 15 points 
and engineered the Yellow Jac­
kets attack in the first half— 
he sat out the first few minutes 
of play in the second half.
The Tartans exploded for nine 
points as the second half got 
under way, to take a quick 38- 
31 lead. The Waynesburg of­
fense stalled when confronted
by the zone and C-MU began to 
dominate the boards. The Yel­
low Jackets got within three 
points of C-MU when Grimes 
began to sink his long jump 
shots. However, a succession of 
Waynesburg turnovers enagled 
the Tartans to build a 53-45 
lead midway through the per­
iod. Huet’s return to the lineup 
moved Waynesburg to within 
four points of the Tartans but 
that was the closest they were 
going to come. Playing against 
the clock, Waynesburg attempt­
ed to overcome the increasing 
Carnegie lead by switching to 
a pressing zone in order to force 
bad passes. This moved failed 
to make up the Tartans who 
moved the ball around expertly 
and passed to teammates for 
easy scores in exploiting the 
many gaps present. When Lang 
fouled out with 3:40 left in the 
game, C-MU was in complete 
control and breezed to 74-61 vic­
tory.
Mark Lang came up with 
another great game as he led 
the Tartans with 21 points and 
15 rebounds. These statistics
CMU Whips Waynesburg 
Record Now 2 -1
by Alan Letzt
After losing their second game of the season to a 
powerful Grove City squad, C-MU bounced back to top the 
Waiynesburg “Yellow Jackets” 74-61. his victory upped the 
Tartans' record to 2-1 while Waynesburg is winless in five
games.
were accompanied by his extra 
effort as Lang dived after loose 
balls and followed up each shot 
in displaying the hustle and 
desire which are beocming con­
tagious on the C-MU team. Bar­
ry Hummel hit the defensive 
boards hard and set up his team­
mates with many excellent 
passes. Weborg was unstoppable 
on his short jump shots from 
the corner, Dave Stobbe was 
second to Lang in rebounding, 
and John Meister turned in one 
of his consistently top-notch 
performance.
The loss to Grove City by an 
82-65 score was C-MU first set­
back this season. The Grovers 
boasted a tall team and a wall 
executed fast break. The Tartns 
trailed 21-20 at one point but 
Grove City took advantage of 
CMU’s scoring lapse and charged 
to a 44-26 half-time lead. The 
Tartans outscored their oppon­
ents in the second half but 
Grove City maintained at least 
a 10 point margin for the re­
mainder of the game. Positive 
notes for the Tartans in this 
outing were their improved in­
bounds play against a press and 
their refusal to let up in the 
second half when victory might 
have seemed out of reach. Lang 
and Hummel led the Tartans 
scorers with 20 and 14 points 
respectively. Jeff Claypool 
scored 26 points and John Coch­
ran 21 for Grove City.
The victory over Waynesburg 
was the fifth straight Tech win 
over the Yellow Jackets. The 
Tartans will play host to the 
University of Rochester Satur­
day night. The meeting with 
Rochester will be the first be- 
twee nthe two teams.
STATISTICS
CMU 65, GROVE CITY 82
CMU
FG FT
De Huff........................... 2 1
Abraham ......................... 0 0
Hardiman ....................... 1 0
Hummel ........................... 7 0
Lang ................................ 10 0
Mitchell ........................... 0 0
Meister ........................... 5 0
Houser ........................... 1 0
Stobbe ............................. 2 3
Weborg ........................... 1 3
2« 7
PTS.
5 
0 
R
14
200
10
2
6 
5
65
GROVE CITY
Bratt
Frye ___
Kielgasa 
J^oberts . 
Zeigler ...
FGFTPTS.
102
124
8521
9826
30G
204
102
204
6113
331682
From The Sideline
Mail Call
James A. Janke, Sports Editor
I get mail, occasionally, from Sport magazine, Waynesburg 
College and from this University. But nothing has ever topped 
this. I quote:
Now that the 1967 football season is just about over, South­
ern Cal has all but unanimously been named national champion. 
Howerver, the following statistics prove that Oarnegie-Mellan, 
not Southern Cal, should actually be proclaimed national champion.
C-MU 41, Westminister 34 
Westminster 21, Juniata 7 
Juniata 35, Albright 14 
Albright 20, Drexel 14 
Drexel 27, Gettysburg 20 
Gettysburg 27, Lafayette 17 
Lafayette 21, Bucknell 6 
Bucknell 28, Penn 27 
Penn 28, Brown 7 
Brown 14, Cornell 14
Cornell 24, Dortmouth 21 
Dartmouth 24, Holy Cross 8 
Holy Cross 38, Buffalo 25 
Buffalo 30, Kent State 6 
Kent State 21, Ohio U. 14 
Ohio U. 30, Kansas 14 
Kansas 10, Nebraska 0 
Nebraska 17, Washington 7 
Washington 13, Oregon State 6 
Oregon State 3, Southern Cal 0
From these figures, it is obvious to even the most casual ob­
server that Carnegie-Mellon is the number one team in the coun­
try. Not only are they the number one team, but these figures 
prove conclusively that OMU would beat USC by a margin of 
211 point. So, my question is: “Why have the polls ignored Cat1'1 
negie-Mellon?”
? Sincerely,
T. S. Terpadk, ’66
IM REVIEW
All School Football Team 
by Harold Herre
With the end of each major 
IM sport comes the selection of 
an All-School team. This year’s 
All-School Football team is in­
deed a fine one.
The offensive team included 
Skip Lowe GSIA at center. He 
was the key to the offense of 
third place GSIA. While he is 
not big, Lowe’s tremendous 
speed and fine hands earned 
him a first team position.
First team selections at end 
were Jack Barbon from school 
champs BTP, and Denny Kav- 
chek from the Bruins. Along 
with being a fine blocker, Bar­
ber was the leading receiver for 
BTP. Kavcheck, who was named 
on three all school team pos­
itions, once again showed his 
versatility by being chosen not 
only at end but also at defensive 
back.
The blocking backs of the 
first team were Ken Siger 
from TDP and GSIA’s Don Dan- 
sereau. Both were outstanding 
against the pass rush, along 
with being fine receivers.
At quarterback was the elu­
sive Kem Malley from ATO. 
Malley’s fine passing along with 
his scrambling runs, made him a 
solid choice at quarterback. He 
was also chosen as football’s 
most valuable player.
The defensive team is a quar­
terback’s nightmare. Bruce Fer- 
nie from ATO and John Nassal 
from the Gard Nads, lead the 
pass rush. Both men combine
excellent power with surprising 
speed in order to put pressure 
on opposing quarterbacks. v
Jeff Kalin from GSIA was j 
vetod the school’s best line back- I 
er. The former CIT basketb 
great employed his size and 
speed to cover the middle ground 
better than anyone else.
At safety were Dennis Kau- 
cher from the Bruins, Bob Pot­
ter from ATO, and Richard Ar- 
dern from GSIA. Although he 
suffered a broken finger that 
kept him out of the first few 
games, Potter returned to 1V , 
come the great strength of 
ATO’s defensive backfield. It 
was1 the second year that he 
was chosen as a first team de­
fensive back. GSIA’s Ardern 
usually handled the opponents 
toughest receiver with ease.
First team kicker was Ray 
Weaver from the Grad Nads. 
Weaver’s fine punting usua'<|' 
kept opponents well into their 
own territory. It was not un­
usual for him to boom 50 or 60 
yard punts.
Second team choices were 
Q-Back-John Zabetakis (BTP); 
Blocking Back — Mark Davis 
(BTP) and Ralph Robertson 
(Grad Nads); End — Buddy 
Brown (SN) and Lou MaliiJ.« 
(SAE); Center—Bob Reynouard 
(BTP); Rusher — Mike Kalesh 
(BTP) and Fred Riedel (BTP); 
Linebacker — Don Feenstra 
(EJ’s); Defensive Back — Ray 
Läufer (SAE); Louis Huesman 
(GSIA) and John Modzelewski 
(Brunis); Punter—Jack Barbin 
(BTP), Most Valuable Player-— 
John Zabetakis (BTP). ^
PRO ...
(Continued from Page 1‘ 
tactical efficacy and moral prin­
ciple. On grounds of principle 
and tactics, I think that civil 
disibedience should be entirely 
non-violent.
The final question posed is the 
crucial one. Those who defend 
American policy speak vaguely 
of Communist “laggression.” Just 
when did this “aggression” take 
place? Was it in 1959, when Ha­
noi radio was urging thiat the 
leaders of the insurrection de­
sist, when Diem spoke of hav­
ing an Algerian war on his 
hands in the South while his 
agents were being parachuted 
into North Vietnam? Or was it 
perhaps in April, 1965, when 
North Vietnamese, troops were 
first discovered in the South,
two months after the bombing 
of North Vietnam began—400 
in a gurella force of 140,000, at 
a time when more than 30,000 
American troops were helping 
protect the Saigon Government 
from its own population?
Or is it now, when a vast 
American army of occupation 
has taken over the conduct of 
the war, with about as many 
South Korean mercenaries as 
there are North Vietnamese 
troops in the South? Or does 
Hanoi’s “aggression” consist in 
the sending of supplies and 
trained South Vietnamese cadres 
to the South?
By these standards our ag­
gression in the South has al­
ways been incomparably great­
er in scale, and we are engaged 
in such aggression in Jialf the 
countries of the world. It is
pointless to continue. If an ob­
jective observer were to listen 
to American speaking of eoobsc 
sion from Hanoi or of the neces­
sity for America to contain Chi ~ 
na’s aggressive expansionism,
he would not challenge our ar­
guments but would question our 
sanity.
American government sources 
freely admit that United States 
military force was introduced to 
prevent a political, organization­
al, agit-prop victory by the NLF 
(see Douglias Pike, “The Viet 
Cong”). The terrible conse­
quences of the use of American 
military might are apparent to 
anyone with eyes and ears, 
will not try to describe wh 
everyone knows. To use inade­
quate words to tell what we 
have done is an insult to the 
(Continued on Page 10)
t

---------------------------------------------------

tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )Ei )ITO S Gfv G,FG,( S reos 9
what will you want 
two years after you 
get your degree?
CHOOSE A CAREER-START with Mf... 
and GROW IN THE DIRECTION of YOUR 
TALENTS and CHANGING DESIRES!
It is important to choose a large company with diversity and an interest in your ca­
reer development. FMC Corporation is an ideal choice. It is one of the top 60 com­
panies in this richest nation in the world. FMC has many manufacturing divisions, 
subsidiary operations, affiliated companies, and jointly owned enterprises. Total pro­
duction facilities encompass 125 plants in 33 states and 12 foreign countries. The 
company is organized into four major groups: Machinery, Chemicals, Fibers and 
Films, and Defense.
FIND OUT WHAT FMC CAN OFFER YOU AT GRADUATION... 
AND LATER...WHEN YOU KNOW EXACTLY WHAT YOU WANT!
You will start your career with the famed Ordnance Division 1. FMC, a vital, interesting, expanding 
facility located in the Magic Valley of Charleston, West Virginia. The city is metropolitan in thought 
and action, but you will be only a few minutes away from wild country, great hunting and fishing. It 
is an excellent place to work and to live.
We are seeking qualified B.S. and Graduate Students as ¦ INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS ¦ MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERS ¦ METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS ¦ INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT MAJORS ¦ INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY 
¦ BUSINESS MANAGEMENT (ACCOUNTING MAJORS) ¦ MATHEMATICS-COMPUTER SYSTEMS ANALYSTS
Send for FREE Brochure/Clip out and mail today!
WXCr 8gG ,(J u,CX
VJ
ugLG ¿v giLi WCGCZv(A 
,( vQg,X 8rr8FGg(CG} vurX8}vFu/l
JsKnACR9G8U ubi F19 vhe9cN rsbc199sd Jmhmcm19 
luW W8Fr8F,GC8( 
8FJ(,(Wv JC0CLC8(
ri8i ¿1x wEZO S L13ny Wyebdscn19N ti 0ei RpEZE
Jseb ubi vhe9cU rdsecs cs9B 7s .bss 6b1ay3bs 13ndm9m9o 
aebssb 1KK1bn39mnmsc en P13b luW Jmhmcm19i
(e7sU5555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555
,BBbsccUi
C 39Bsbcne9B nyen m. C’7 m9nsbscnsB m9 nedDm9o n1 e W17Ke9P FsKV
bscs9nenmhsN , We7K3c C9nsbhms- -mdd 6s ebbe9osBi

---------------------------------------------------

reos )Z SGfv G,FG,( S tsB9scBePN Jsas76sb )EN )ITO
C( ,(J 
,F8g(J
PRO . ..
s rolth
VOCAL RECIAL...............
Carnegie-Mellon University: Mary Burn, vocalist, under Bea­
trice Krebs, senior recital; Exhibition Hall; Saturday, Dec. 16, 8:30 
pm.
SYMPHONY...............
City of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Symphony: Free dty concert; 
Henry Mazer, conducting (send selfnaddressed stamped envelope 
to Free City Concert, Box 2221, Pittsburgh 15230, for tickets) ; 
Syria Mosque; Sunday, Dec. 17, 8:15 pm.
TUESDAY MUSICAL CLUB...............
Tuesday Musical Club String Orchestra: Stamitz’ Quartet in 
F Major, Bach’s Concerto in C Minor for Violin and Oboe with 
Bld en Gatwood (oboe) and Sylvia Gatwood (violin), Bach’s Bran- 
densburg Concerto No. 5 in D Major with Marion Berry (flute), 
Bess Kessler (violin), iand Sally Sax (piano), and Mozart’s Ada­
gio-Allegro from Quartet in C Major; George Grossman, conduc­
tor; Stephen Foster Memorial; Tuesday, Dec. 19, 8:30 pm.
PERCUSSION...............
Carnegie-Mellon University: Percussion Ensemble under Stan­
ley Leonard; Exhibition Hall; Tuesday, Dec. 19, 8:30 pm.
? DRAMA
PITTSBURGH PLAYHOUSE .....
Curtain: 8:30 prn Tuesday-Saturday, 7:30 pm Sunday, matinee
2 pm Wednesday. Tickets: 621-4445. Hamlet Theatre (straight run). 
Bom Yesterday by Garson Kanin; Dec. 7 to Jan. 7; matinee, 
Dec. 13.
Christmas Music
CHRISTMAS ASSEMBLY...............
The Annual Christmas Assembly will be held on Tuesday, 
Dec. 19, at 11:30 a.m. in the Fine Arts Hall
CEREMONY OF CAROLS...............
A Ceremony of Carols, Benjamin Britten’s setting of tradi­
tional old English carols, will highlight a Christmas program to 
be presented on December 17 by Sigma Alpha Iota, professional 
women’s fraternity in the field of music.
The Ceremony of Carols will be directed by Marilyn Roth, 
with harp accompaniment by Phillis Basson, harpist with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony. Soloists are Bonnie Hatch and Jean Bradel. 
Other works in the program include a Bach Woodwind Quintet 
and Kodaly’s Ave Maria.
The performance will take place -in the Wherrett Room in 
Skibo at 7:30 p.m. Admission is $1.
CHRISTMAS CONCERT OF MEDIEVAL 
AND RENAISSANCE MUSIC...............
The Pittsburgh Oratorio Society will combine talents with the 
Antiqua Players to present a special Christmas concert Wednes­
day, Dec. 20, at 8 p.m. in Calvary Episcopal Church in Shadyside.
The 70 voice choir, under the direction of Donald Wilkins and 
the Antiqua Players, under Colin Sterne of the University of 
Pittsburgh, will perform medieval and renaissance Christmas mu­
sic. In the holiday decorated church, the concert will include a 
candle-light processional, three traditional carols, arranged by 
Pittsburgh composer Joseph Jenkins, and will feature Charpen- 
tier’s Messe de Minuit. In addition, the Antiqua players will play 
sacred 14th century motets on authentic instruments of the per­
iod, such as lute, viol, harpsichord, and flute.
The Oratorio Society is known throughout the region for its 
performances of sacred choral works in church settings, just as 
originally sung hundreds of years ago. The society is made up 
of professional and amateur singers from the Pittsburgh area. 
The Antiqua Players are a group of professional musicians from 
the University of Pittsburgh who have toured throughout the 
country for the past several years.
The public is invited. Admission is free.
CEILIDH...............
Pittsburgh Folklore Society and Carnegie Ceilidh: Pete See- 
ger, Christmas program. Carnegie Music Hall, Friday, Dec. 15.
“GLORIA”...............
Third Presbyterian Church: Poulenc’s Gloria. John R. Live­
ly, conductor. Sunday, Dec. 17, 4:30 pm.
DUQUESNE ...............
Duquesne University: Christmas Concert. Duquesne Chorus, 
brass, percussion; Donald Beikman, conductor; Student Union 
Ballroom; Tuesday, Dec. 19, 8 pm.
C AND LIGHT SERVICE .....
Chatham College: Christmas Candlelight Service; Chatham 
Choir and Chorus and Washington and Jefferson College Men’s 
Glee Club; vocal readings, choral and solo selections; Lorenzo 
Malfatti and William Saul, conductors; Chapel; Tuesday, Dec. 19,
11 pm.
UNITARIAN MUSIC SERVICE .....
First Unitarian Church: All musical service; program to in­
clude Bach's Cantata No. 31 with Sylvia Floyd (soprano), Charles 
Hois (trumpet), and other instruments; string quartet; Ellsworth 
and Morewood Aves.; Sunday, Dec. 24, 11 am.
(Continued from Page 8) 
victims of our violence and our 
moral cowardice. Yes, civil dis­
obedience is entirely justified in 
an effort to bring to a close the 
most disgraceful chapter in 
American history.
I’ll finish with two quotes, 
each very true, from opposite 
extremes of the moral spectrum.
(1) “Naturally the common 
people don’t want war ... it is 
the leaders of the country who 
determine the policy, and it is 
always a simple matter to drag 
the people along, whether it is a 
democracy, or a Fascist dictator­
ship, or a parliament, or a Com­
munist dictatorship. Voice or no 
voice, the people can always be 
brought to do the bidding of the 
leaders. That is easy. All you 
have to do is to tell them that 
they are being attacked, and 
denounce the pacifists for lack 
of patriotism and exposing the 
country to danger. It works the 
same in every country.”
(2) “Unjust laws and prac­
tices survive because men obey 
them and conform to them. This 
they do out of fear. There are 
things they dread more than 
the continuance of the evil.”
The first quote is from Her­
mann Goering. Those who coun­
sel civil disobedience are ex­
pressing their hope that it does­
n’t “work the same” in this 
country. The second quote is 
from A. J. Muste, paraphrasing 
Gandhi. .These words have nev­
er been more appropriate than 
they are today.
CON...
(Continued from, Page 1) 
cational policies of a municipal 
administration, are asking for 
the kind of latitude which 
breaks the bonds of civil so­
ciety.
That which is anarchic within 
me (which is very strong) tunes 
in strongly on the idea of a so­
ciety in which people decide for 
themeslves what taxes to pay, 
what rules to obey, when to co­
operated and when not to with 
the civil authorities. But that 
which is reasonable within me, 
which I am glad to say most 
often prevails, recognizes that 
societies so structured do not 
exist, and cannot exist: an in­
sight as ancient as Socrates’s, 
so patiently explained to Crito. 
The indicated consequence for 
studied and aggravated civil 
disobedience seems to me to be 
obvious: deportation. Ideally, of 
course, a citizen whose disagree­
ments with his country are or­
ganic and apparently unrecon- 
cilable should take the initiative 
and seek out more compatible 
countries.
CAL TECH .. .
(Continued from Page 1 )
pressed special interest that sim­
ilar projects be initiated on our 
own campus. These could take 
the form of a branch of the Cai 
Tech Project, or as entirely dif­
ferent project within our own 
University community.
Students who are interested in 
the Oal Tech Project or in be­
ginning similar projects here 
are invited to attend a meeting 
on Friday, Dec. 15, at 4:30 pm 
in Room 40 Slkiibo
Questions will be answered at 
this time, or students may con­
tact Tojn Huff or Gordon Cohn.
? LECTURES AND MEETINGS
CHESS CLUB............
The Chess Club of the YM and WHA will hold a Ten Minute
Speed Tournament on Tuesday evening, Dec. 19, from 8:30 to
11. Entry fee of $2 per person includes games and refreshments.
First prize is 40 per cent of receipts; second, 25 per cent; third,
15 per cent; and fourth, ten per cent. Those planning to play should 
bring sets and clocks, if possible. Since the tournament is for fun 
and not rated, it is open to everyone and it is not necessary to hold 
a USCF card. Further information may be obtained at 621-6500, 
ext. 66.
SPANISH CULTURAL CLUB.............
Prof. Santiago Garcia will explore in Spanish the theme “The 
Vision of an Era Through a Painting of Velazquez” and Miss Anna 
Louise Amedick, well-known Pittsburgh opera singer, will enter­
tain, accompanied by Mark Schumacher at the Dec. 16 meeting of 
the club of Pittsburgh.
The meeting will be held in the Rogal Room of the YM and 
WHA, 315 South Bellefield Ave., Oakland, at 8:15 pm. The serving 
of refreshments during the social hour will complete the evening. 
The public is welcome.
YM and WHA .....
Stanton T. Friedman, nuclear physicist at Westinghouse As- 
tronuclear Laboratory and nationally known lecturer on the outer 
world of every man, will make his final appearance for the quar­
ter on Thursday evening. Dec. 14, 8:15, at the YM and WHA.
MANAGEMENT SOCIETY............
All undergraduate students who are interested in organizing 
or participating in a Management Society—an organization for 
the purpose of having informal meetings addressed by repre­
sentatives from industry, to make industry visits, to entertain 
and hear speakers from the faculty and outside on management 
subjects, etc.—are invited to meet at 4 pm on Thursday, Dec. 14, 
in GSIA Auditorium.
TECH CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP . . . ? .
Caroling and Christmas Party Saturday, Dec. 16. Meet at 
6:30 pm in lower lobby of Skibo.
LUNCHEON FORUM..............
Campus YM and YWCA Luncheon Forum, Highlander Room, 
Skibo, Thursday, Dec. 14, 12:30 p.m; “What’s Ahead in Arbitration?’’ 
Ben Fischer, director, Arbitration and Wage Division, United Steel­
workers of America.
SATURDAY NIGHT MOVIE...............
Beckett will be shown on Dec. 16 at 8 pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
EXPERIMENTAL FILMS.............
Charlie Chaplin’s The Kid will be shown Wednesday, Dec. 13, 
in Skibo Ballroom at 4:30, 7, 9, and 11 pm. Tickets are 75 cents.
HOME ECONOMICS CLUB.............
The Annual International Christmas Party will be held this 
Wednesday at 4:30 pm in the Jane Fales Room, second floor, Mar­
garet Morrison. The campus is invited to attend. Refreshments 
will be served.
CAL TECH PROJECT ....
There will be a meeting on Friday at 4:30 pm. Any interested 
student is invited to attend.
SCOTCH AND SODA
The first complete meeting of the cast will be held on Sunday, 
Dec. 17, at 1 pm.
? EXHIBITIONS
GRAPHICS...........
Sophomore Graphics Show, Porter Garnett Gallery, third floor, 
BH; 9 am to 9 pm Monday-Friday, 9 am to 12 noon Saturday, 
Dec. 7-18.
LIGHT . . , , .
“Compositions in Light” by Walter Groer; Hewlett Gallery, 
CFA, 9 am to 12 noon and 1 to 4 pm Monday-Friday, Dec. 7-22.
GESTURES ......
“The Language of Gestures,” an exhibit which relates to two 
lectures and demonstrations to be presented in the department of 
design by A. Midani, J. V/alker, and P. Draper. Porter Garnett Gal­
lery, third floor, BH; 9 am to 9 pm Moonday-Friday, 9 am to 12 noon 
Saturday; Dec. 7-15.
ARTS CONCRETE............
Arts Concrete: Rare Book Room, fourth floor, Hunt Library; 
8:30 am to 5 pm Monday-Friday, 9 am to 5 pm Saturday, 2-5 pm 
Sunday; Dec. 7-30.
? SCHOLARSHIPS
SOUTH JERSEY...........
The South Jersey Suburban Oity Panhellenic Association an­
nounces the availability of a scholarship to be awarded to a quali­
fied initiated member of a sorority supported by the National Pan­
hellenic Council. Applicants must be a resident of the New Jersey 
counties of South Burlington, Camden or Gloucester. Awards are 
granted on the basis of scholarship, ability, character and financial 
need.
Applications are available in the Financial Aid Office, 210 W'ar- 
ner Hall. The deadline for filing is Feb. 15, 1968. The winner will 
be notified by May 1, 1968.
? CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
NEW YORK ......
New York Career Opportunities Conference, a career recruit­
ment program for Great New York City area college students at­
tending out-of-town schools, will be held Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday, Dec. 26, 27, 28, and 29, at the Hotel Biltmore. 
PHILADELPHIA
Operation Native Son, a career recruitment program for Great­
er Philadelphia area college students attending out-of-town schools, 
will be held Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, Dec. 27, 28, and 29, 
at the Sheraton Hotel in Philadelphia between 9 am and 5 pm.
