DANCE 
French War Orphans 
FRIDAYCiarían
BASKET BALL 
At Westinghouse 
SATURDAY
VOL. XII. NO. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAJANUARY 9, 1918
ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
MAY ENLIST IN RESERVE
May Continue School Until 
Completion of Course 
as Exempts
DRAFTEES ONLY
As is stated in the official announce­
ments for this issue, engineering stu­
dents are to be allowed to enlist in 
the Engineer’s Reserve School. The 
form of certificate-used by the head oi 
the school for that purpose is as fol­
lows:
“1 hereby certify that....................is
a regular student of the___....class
in good standing, as a candidate for 
an engineering degree at....... .and
that in the judgment of the faculty of 
this school, based upon his academic 
record, supplemented by his relations 
with fellow students and by observa­
tion of his instructors', he may fairly 
be regarded as deserving a place in 
the first third qualitatively of the 
young men graduating- from this insti­
tution during the past ten years.”
It is evident that such rules allow 
considerable latitude. A recent num­
ber of the Engineering News Record 
lias this to say on the subject:
“The Provost Marshal General’s 
regulation means that the selected 
students are to be permitted to com­
plete their engineering course as ex­
empts, just as though they were in the 
military service of the United States, 
but they will not be dressed in uni­
form nor will they be put under salary 
ais members of the military forces of 
the United States. They are, however, 
members of the Enlisted Reserve 
Corps of the United State« Engineer 
“Department, and as such are subject 
to immediate call to the colors at any 
time. At the completion of their 
course, they will become subject to 
the call of the draft and may be detail­
ed to any service in the jurisdiction of 
the military authorities. It is prob­
able, however, that a number of the 
graduates will be permitted to enter 
civilian engineering work necessary 
for the conduct of the war. All engi­
neering students ,no.t included within 
the groups selected by the faculty are 
subject to the regular provisions of 
the draft law.
(Continued on Page Two.)
FIRST SOLDIER STUDENTS HERE
KLANICHT BANQUETS MEN 
LEAVING FOR CAMP LEE
Thursday, December 27, the Klan- 
iclit held a farewell banquet at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel for the members of 
the Klan who will soon be called into 
service.
The following men will begin their 
training at Camp Lee January 5, in 
the Engineer Officers' Training Camp: 
Lieut. Wm. B. Skinkle,
-Lieut. A. C. Bennett,
Lieut. G. L. Morgan,
Lieut. G. M. Barrow.
Lieut. Morgan is a fifth year Nite 
Civil. The other men are last year 
graduates. Lieut. Skinkle will be re­
membered ,as the first. Tech man to 
receive a commission.
A pleasant surprise was provided in 
the appearance of L. G. Glucksman 
and W. A. McMichaeis who are al­
ready in service and were home on 
furlough for Xmas. Glucksman is at 
present a sergeant at Camp Lee, and 
was recommended for the Officers’ 
Training Camp. McMichaeis has been 
recommended for a commission. At 
present, he is stationed at Allentown 
with a Hospital Unite. Glucksman and 
McMichaeis are both members of the 
present fifth year Nite class. Sergt. 
Al. Grobstein, Chemical also fifth year 
Nite will be stationed at New Haven, 
Con. J. M. Miller, ?17, who is now 
taking the P. G. Commercial Course 
and Wm. J. McKee, mechanical, of 
this year’s class, are expecting to be 
called into service soon.
NITE SCIENCE SMOKER 
PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
We feel like sticking out our shingle 
“Fortunes Told—Palms Read,” after 
seeing how good this year’s Smoker 
turned out. We said it would be the 
best yet, and it was. There wasn’t 
enough left to pass around now, so 
we’ll just draw a picture of it.
The eats and smoker were good. 
Yes, even the smokes! Not one was 
asphyxiated this year. During the 
eats, the hearty laughs from the Klan- 
icht table punctually punctured the 
clash of knife and fork. No fun in­
tended, but that bunch surely must 
have some assortment of sttfties. We 
heard a few and they were—well they 
were clever.
After the eats, Dean Mott spoke of 
the relation of the night man to pres­
ent conditions and needs. Dean Con- 
{Continued on Page Three.)
SIGNAL RESERVE CORPS 
PROPOSED FOR STUDENTS
Men Trained in Electrical 
Service Eligible
MEN IN CLASS FIVE
The War Department is proposing 
to establish a Signal Enlisted Reserve 
Corps to be composed of Junior, Sen­
ior or Graduate students in Electrical 
Engineering or students of equivalent 
electrical training. Regular Fourth 
and Fifth Year Night students at Tech 
would be eligible.
Students enlisted in this corps 
would continue in school under a spec­
ial schedule comprising approximate­
ly ten (10) credit units of the present 
curriculum and approximately eight 
(8) credit units devoted to the theory 
and practice of the elements of radio 
transmission.
To enter this corps a student must 
enlist in the Army, conforming to cer­
tain regulations of the War Depart­
ment. When thus enlisted the stu­
dent’s name will be placed on the "in­
active list” of the Signal Enlisted Re­
serve Corps and he will be allowed to 
remain on this inactive list until the 
special radio course is completed.
After this the student will be given 
an option of
(a) being called into active service 
under his enlistment or
(b) being immediately discharged 
and taking his normal place with re­
spect to service under the draft.
If he choses option (a) he will 
either
(1) be assigned for further instruc­
tion at a Signal Corps Radio School or
(2) be detailed to some Signal 
Corps organization.
In the case of students subject to 
draft, enlistment in the Signal Enlist­
ed Reserve Corps will put the regis­
trant in Class (5) of the Selective Ser­
vice Regulations on the ground that 
he is in the military service of the 
United States.
(Courtesy Gazette Times.)
A detachment of ten enlisted men 
and two officers arrived, on the Camp­
us Saturday from Fort Riley, Kansas, 
for the new course in Automobile 
Maintenance and Gas Engine Opera­
tion, and a similar group arrived Mon­
day from Fort Oglethorpe, Ga. The 
men will be quartered in the South 
Dormitory and will have their meals 
in the institute restaurant, at the Gov­
ernment’s expense. They will remain 
for a month of intensive instruction 
and then will be replaced by another 
group. Messrs. Ambrose, Calderwood. 
Dodds, Hepburn, Payne, and Swan, and 
demonstrators from the Pittsburgh’s 
agencies of the Dodge and Pierce-Ar­
row concerns will give the instruction. 
The Government has loaned an am­
bulance truck which has just arrived 
from Pontiac, Mich.
GRADUATE GIVES TALK 
ON T-N-T. MANUFACTURE
TECH DEFEATS YALE; 
LOSES SECOND CONTEST
First Game Won By Three 
Points, But Second Lost 
By Two
TEAM PLAYS WELL
FORMER INSTRUCTOR IS 
ENTHUSIASTIC OVER WAR
Col. Frank Day, former instructor 
in M. M.-C. S., now “Somewhere in 
France” writes as follows:
Dear Director:
Some of my letters must have gone 
into Davey Jones’ Locker as I have 
written you two or three times. It is 
very unsatisfactory writing letters to 
friends as one is not allowed to say 
anything of interest, I have a very fine 
regiment of which I am very proud. 
We wear the kilt and have a splendid 
pipe band. I am especially proud of 
it because I recruited it and modeled 
it and if it is acknowledged to be the 
best battalion, in our division, I fear 
it will be a long time before I s^e 
Pittsburgh again. The end of the war 
is not in sight and after peace is de­
cleared it is estimated that it will take 
18 months to get the Canadians home.
We started a kliaki college in our 
army and at present we have 800 stu­
dents enrolled. We have departments 
of:
Agriculture 
Business 
English 
(Continued on Page Three)
On Thursday night, December 13, 
the Chemist Club of Science School, 
held a very successful and interesting 
meeting. The speaker of the evening 
was Robert M. Crawford, a Tech grad­
uate of the chemical engineering 
course. Mr. Crawford is now super­
intendent of the T. N. T. plant of the 
American High Explosive Co., located 
at New Castle, Pa. Here Mr. Craw­
ford is manufacturing the high explo­
sive which has come to be used to 
such a large extent by the govern­
ments in the present war.
Mr. Crawford's lecture on T. N. T. 
was confined to the following topics:
(a) Physical and Chemical Properties, 
and common names; (b) Chemical 
make-up of nitrotoluols; (c) Raw ma­
terials and Equipment for manufactur­
ing of T. N. T.; (d) Methods and Pro­
cess; (e) General manufacturing pro- 
ceedure; (f) Purification of T. N. T.; 
(g) Recovery of spent acid and waste 
product; (h) Military application of 
T. N. T.; (i) Possible commercial ap_- 
(Continued on Page Three.)
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
BOARD HOLDS MEETINGS
Will Not Be Responsible For 
Debts of Unauthorized 
Organizations
On New Year’s eve, Toch scored' a 
well-earned victory over Yale on the 
East Liberty Y. M. C. A. floor, defeat­
ing them by a margin of three points. 
Yale started off Avltli a rush in the 
first few minutes, scoring four points, 
but our five then held and managed to 
tie the score at 6-.G. At the end of the 
first half, due to a sudden spurt by 
Jale the score stood 15-14 in favor of 
Yale, but hard playing by our quintet 
at the opening of the second half, duo 
much to the efforts of Levinson at 
guard, brought Tech to the top whore 
we remained for the rest of the game. 
The Elis trailed closely, never bolng 
more than six points behind and fin­
ished with a score of 32-35;
The Yale aggregation is to bo high­
ly complimented for its clean playing 
and splendid fighting spirit. Van Slyck 
and Shedd, Yale’s forwards, played an 
exceptionally fine game, Shedd drop 
ping in throe field goals and Van 
Slyck five.
It is an interesting fact for Tech stu­
dents to note that all men participat­
ing in athletics at Yale have to be 
members of the Reserve Officers’ 
Training Corps of which there Is a 
field artillery division at New Haven, 
equipped with a battery of French 
45’s.
To our five is due much commenda­
tion for their excellent playing, es­
pecially during the second half. Do­
herty, our baseball captain and short­
stop, played a strong game with Cap­
tain Abrams at forward. Gretzler 
played center with apparent ease, 
finding no difficulty in out-jumping 
Stradella, Yaje’s center and captain. 
Levinson and Wiliams at guard prov­
ed an excellent combination as was 
shown by their fine passing and field 
work, Levinson getting three baskets 
while Williams dropped in one. The 
(Continued on Page Two.)
MAJOR LYLE, NEW DRILL INSTRUCTOR, ADDRESSES TECH MEN AT ASSEMBLY
He Has Had Three Years 
Experience in Prtsent 
War
PRINCESS PAT OFFICER
Major Hilliard Lyle, D. S. O., who 
has been granted leave of absence by 
the Department of Militia and Defense 
of the Canadian Government to take 
charge of the Institute’s new course 
in military science and tactics, to 
start immediately, left Vancouver on 
December 26, arriving in Pittsburgh 
on January 2. He has just been in 
Washington In conference with the 
War Department. His military record 
is as under:
Native of Canada, born 21st Decem­
ber, 1S79.
Appointed Lieutenant, 103rd Regi-1 
ment (Canadian Militia), August 20, 
1912.
Appointed Lieutenant, 23rd Batta­
lion, Canadian Expeditionary Force, 
November IS, 1914.
Transferred to Princess Patricia’s 
Canadian Light Infantry, January, 
1915.
Transferred to 2nd Battalion, Can­
adian Expeditionary Force, January 
30, 1916.
Appointed Machine Gun Officer, 2nd 
Battalion, Canadian Expeditionary 
Force, February 16, .1916.
Promoted Captain, 2nd Battalion. 
Canadian Expeditionary Force, Sept. 
12, 1916.
Promoted Acting Major, 2nd Batta­
lion, Canadian Expeditionary Forco, 
December 23, 1916.
Transferred to Reserve Battalion, 
April 22. 1917.
Awarded decoration of the Distin­
guished Service Order, Juno 4, 1917.
Mentlonod in dispatches July 23,
1917.
Invalided to Canada for medical 
treatment, July 21, 1917.
Plans For Drill Announced. 
Khaki Uniforms Will Be 
Permitted
STUDENTS DELIGHTED
MUSICAL CLUBS GIVE 
FIRST CONCERT OF YEAR
The Student Activities Board held 
its last meeting for 1917 in Dr. Es- 
querre’s office. Many things were 
brought up, of which some were of 
considerable importance.
A representative of the Shilling 
came before the board, and asked for 
an appropriation for this paper. The 
matter was considered and it was 
finally decided to back the Shilling 
up to a certain amount, provided their 
charter was approved and all debts 
went through the Graduate Manager’s 
office.
From the first of the year the Union 
has suffered considerably by the stu­
dents lack of consideration. The rugs 
of the Union alone, cost over fifteen 
hundred dollars, and yet no pains are 
taken to keep ashes off them, spitoons 
are frequently missed, and cigarette 
stubs drop to the floor to burn and 
scorch till out. The board is respon­
sible for ihe care of the Union, and 
(Continued on Page Two.)
A. W. MELLON HOUSE IS 
TO BE GIRLS’ NEW DORM
The Institute recently acquired con­
trol of the A. W. Mellon House, 5052 
Forbes street. During the holidays it 
was fitted up as a dormitory for the 
M. M. C. >S. students who had previ­
ously been quartered at 324 Morewood 
avenue. It is to be known as “Mellon 
Hall,” and will accommodate 35 girls.
The old Morewood .I-Iall Dormitory 
is to be fitted up to accommodate the 
continually increasing number of offi­
cers and privates who are to be in­
structed at Tech.
•J* *i* •I* 4* *i* *1* *J4 4* *1* •I4 4* ‘I*
* WAR ORPHAN DANCE +
•I* --------------- »1*
* The Time—Friday, Jan. 1.1. *
* The Place—Carnegie Union. *
•I* The Tax—Seventy-five Cents
4* Music by Sweeney. *
* *
Last Friday, January 4, the Musical 
Clubs gavo their first concert of the 
season at Mayvlow. OX courso, the 
trains wore late, but tlio dinner that 
was waiting when the follows arrived, 
fully repaid them for waiting so long 
in the station. The clubs wore very 
much handicapped in that tho pro­
gram was not fully completed, and 
the soloists and roador have not yot 
boon chosen. However, tho Mandolin 
and Gloe Clubs atlornaloly gave se­
lections which consumed about an 
hour and a half.
The “old pop” which was formerly 
in the clubs was sadly missing, but 
this Is easily accounted for by the fact 
that only seven or eight men of last 
year’s clubs are in the clubs this year. 
The new men showed lots of life, how­
ever, and the wild snow fight at tho 
station at Mayvlow would have 
brought sighs of admiration from tho 
veterans of Cambria.
The plebe who brought the music 
cases home from the concert was out 
to see Ills girl Sunday afternoon with 
the result that the mandolin club did 
not have any music, so that the prac­
tice was called off. Next Sunday, Di­
rector Scalzo wishes every man .to 
be at the Union at 2 o’clock sharp 
for a three hour rehearsal. Only the 
best men are going to be kept on the 
roll book so everyone will have to 
liven up Sunday and show Mr. Scalzo 
that he has the “goods.”
The officers of the Glee Club com­
plain that there are several good men 
in school now who have been in the 
club in former years and who are now 
not coming to rehearsals. These men 
should come out by all means for the 
clubs are facing a crisis now and need 
all the good material they can get.
The special assembly for men yes­
terday in the theater of the School of 
Applied Design was addressed by Di­
rector Hamerschlag and Major Lyle. 
In his introductory speech the direc­
tor told something of Major Lyle's ex­
perience and personality. He explain­
ed that the work which Major Lyle is 
to direct has been admitted by the 
War Department to be the first of the 
kind in which a college has really co­
operated with the department, much 
of the work undertaken by some of 
the eastern colleges being entirely 
useless.
Major Lyle very simply and force­
fully asked for the supoprt of the stu­
dent body. Several things stood out 
prominently in his talk. First, mili­
tary discipline is absolutely essential .• 
and must be maintained. The men 
must forget they are civilians during 
the drill work. Second, permission 
has been obtained for tho men to wear 
khaki uniforms, all army insignia be­
ing removed and some emblem—prob­
ably C. I. T. put in their place. Uni­
forms are to be purchased by the men 
themselves for about $16 or $17, tho 
money being loaned them by the ad­
ministration when necessary.
Third, In a short time the War De­
partment will probably ask the col­
leges of the country to designate a 
member of their own men as fitted for 
commissions. In order that Tech may 
be prepared to do this, the men hero 
aro to be divided roughly into throe 
classes corresponding to private, N. C.
O., and commissioned officers. Tho 
latter class will be the mon recom­
mended when tho time comes.
Tho courso of the drill instruction 
will Include practically overytlilng 
given in the officers’ training camps. 
There will bo Infantry Drill, Musketry 
Drill, and Care of Arms. Attempts aro 
oven being made to obtain a machino 
gun, so that Instruction in Its uso may 
bo Included. There will also bo bomb­
ing, bayonet fighting, and the newer 
phasos of trench warfare. Lectures 
(Continued on Pngo Two.)
DESIGN SERVICE REVEL 
WAS DECIDED SUCCESS
THIS WEEK MARKS LAST 
PERFORMANCE OF PLAY
The Drama Department of Design Is 
producing Sheridan’s "School for 
Scandal” again this week. The per­
formances are scheduled for Tuesday, 
Wednesday, Friday and Saturday 
evenings, and as these w-lll in all prob­
ability be the last opportunities to see 
this play, students who desire to do 
so should apply for tickets at once.
The next play to be produced will 
bo Swinburne’s “Atalanta In Calydon,” 
which Is being rehearsed dally. Two 
“Plebe Plays" are also being rehears­
ed; Yoat’s “The King's Threshold," 
and the “Iphlgenia In Taures,” of Euri­
pides.''
A bill of new plays by students of 
Dramatic composition is also In prep­
aration.
Tho Design Sorvlco Itovnl, which, 
for the timo bolng at least, talcos tho 
placo of tho Annual Costume Ball, 
proved a greater succoss than had 
boon' hoped for by any of those pro­
moting it. Tho presonts which wero 
required1 as part of the admission feo, 
wore or very generous proportions, 
and It was estimated that nearly two 
hundred dollars worth of usoful gifts 
wore collected to send to our soldiers 
In Franco. The money spoilt In this 
direction will surely servo a better 
cause than If It were spent on decora­
tions and costumes. Although danc­
ing was the chief feature of the even­
ing’s entertainment, a great deal was 
added to the gaiety of tho event by 
the “Drama" presented by students 
of Design. The heart-rending death 
scene of Sir Herbert-Reginald De 
Courcey Lovelace Gaither and Theda 
Bara Rubonstein, will never be for­
gotten, while the “movle-cllnch" of 
the Heroine and Claude Eclaire Bu- 
chanon was a vision—or should It be 
“sight?"
(Continued on Page Two.)
RED CROSS CAMPAIGN 
SUCCESS WITH NITE MEN
As In the Y. M. C. A. campaign in 
the Nite Science School, the Klanicht 
saw every night man and enrolled all 
those In the Red Cross who had not 
yet renewed their membership. The 
men all heartily joined in the work to 
help enroll every man. As a few hu­
morously put it, they were getting off 
easy after the demands In the Y. M.
C. A. campaign. The men enrolled 
in the Radio Course also helped to 
liberally fill the number of subscrip­
tions.
RECOMMENDATION OFFICE 
TO LOSE TWO MEN SOON
Mr. J. P. Turn pane has enlisted In 
the Aviation Corps and expects to be 
called for active duty within a month. 
Mr. F. II. Spang resigned from the 
Bureau January 1st to become associ­
ated with the Pittsburgh Musical In­
stitute of 4259 Fifth avenue.

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, January 9, 1918
ufarían
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered In the postoillce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Phone Grant 388-R.
,Phone Schenley 220(i-.J
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquln 
Assistant Managing Editor
L. E. Emerlcli 
Night Editor 
Julius Foster 
Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salomo Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joseph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
James Church 
Science Assistants 
Melnhold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
R. P. Avery
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Marguerite I-Ialdernan 
Mni'garet Lappò 
A une McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor
H. II. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BÜSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles H. Todd
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen
Circulation Manager
H. W. Anderson 
Assistant
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE..............................................................................
Hours—2:00 to 4:00 Mon days.
4:30,to 5:00 Wed neBdays and
............Room 162, Design
Thursdays.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should tte sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired. ____________
All news items must be in the student postoillce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. 28
TECH’S SERVICE
The general public, and probably the average student also, fail 
to realize the extent of the war, work which the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology lias already assumed. The first step was the establish­
ment of a night course in wireless telegraphy for some two hundred 
and fifty men who are now civilians, but who will be found in Class 
One of the coming draft classification. Instruction is given them en­
tirely without charge; nor does the Institute receive any compensa­
tion from the Government, since the institution oil the course was not 
an official order. Tech was the first school in the country to render 
any such service.The second big step comes with, the officers and, enlisted men of 
the U. S. Army who began to arrive on the campus last Saturday« 
Their arrival means an official acceptance of the Institute's offer to 
train army men in such technical work as is demanded in the care of 
gasolene engines for automobiles, and in the Sanitary Train »Service. 
In addition to the equipment of the school, several large automobile 
companies have offered trucks and the men to demonstrate them, and 
an official government truck is on its way to Pittsburgh. The visit­
ing soldiers are to be quartered for the present in the Woodlawn 
Dormitories; but by the time the girls’ dormitory has been changed 
from Morcwood Ilall to Mellon Hall, the number <»I army men will 
have increased so greatly that much more room will be needed, and 
then the former building will in all probability be used also.
Both of these tasks which Tech has undertaken are in addition 
to the services which are expected as a matter ol: course; that is, Hie 
giving up ol! both students and faculty to military and necessary in­
dustrial work. Two hundred and fifty-four, and recently many more, 
have left us. Our laboratories arc being used for occasional experi­
mental work of considerable value. Now comes the news that Tech 
is to have the opportunity of. giving additional educational advan­
tages to those of her own men who might otherwise be called under 
the next draft. Naturally ii will be of .benefit both to the men and to 
the country for the students to graduate before going into service; 
this is the chance which the ISngineors’ Reserve Corps offers to Sci­
ence men, and somewhat similar is the opportunity for men of the 
Klecti’ical Kuginooring Department only in the Signal Corps Reserve.
All of the men who remain in school, either because they have en­
listed in one of the above branches or because they are under age, 
have still another benefit coming to them from the Institute in the 
military drill which is to be given under the direction of Major Lyle. 
Knough lias already been said of the advantages accruing from that— 
it remains only to support it.
TECH DLFEATS YALE; 
LOSES SECOND CONTEST
(Continued From Pago One.) 
team work of our combination was ex­
ceptionally good especially in view ol 
the fact that this game was the first 
of the season and that it was the first 
time that the five had ever all been 
together. Gretzler was unable to prac­
tice with the regulars during vacation. 
Practice continued straight through 
the Christmas recess and since Coach 
McCulloch had to be in New York al 
a conference, Dr. Marks took the team 
in hand right up to the last day. His 
results speak for themselves.
The lineup was as follows:
Yale—32. Tech—35.
Baker..........................F.. (Capt.) Abrams
Van Slyclc.................F................... Doherty
Stradella (Capt.).C...................... Gretzler
Hamill.........................G................. Levinson
Bushby........................G................. Williams
Substitutions—Cosgrove for Doher­
ty, Shedd for Baker. Field Goals- 
Baker 2, Van Slyclc 5, Shedd 3, 
Abrams 6, Doherty 1, Gretzler, Levin­
son 3, Williams 1. Foul Goals—Van 
Slyclc 12 out of 22, Abrams 7 out of 
12. Time of Halves—20 minutes. Ref­
eree—Al Slack. Umpire—J. Graff, 
Ohio State.
Last Saturday night the Westing- 
house tossors defeated our five in a 
very exciting game on our own floor 
by the very close score of 2*1-22. West- 
Inghousp started off with an excellent 
game and kept our team moving all 
of the time. Although wo were at 
the short end of a 15-7 score at the 
end of the first half our team fought 
back during the second period with 
all the life they had and it may safely 
be said that they outplayed the West- 
inghouse quintet, although they were 
unable to overcome their lead.
The Westinghouse aggregation is 
said to be one of the best in years. 
Fellenbaum starred at center and cer­
tainly gave our "old reliable” Gretzler 
a very stiff front. Graff, an Ohio
hibition Room during the evening and 
while the dancers rested, Statz gave 
them some more of his experiences 
in Bulgaria. (It can’t be written as 
he says it, there's no use trying). A 
great deal was added to the occasion 
by the unique decorations, executed 
by James Church.
Although the upperclassmen still 
maintain that it "couldn’t come up to" 
former occasions, the new students 
vote the Design Service Revel the 
“best yet” at Tech.
MEETING OF MENURAH 
SOCIETY JAN. II, 1918
The Menorah is a movement to 
study and advance Jewish culture and 
ideals and to prepare university men 
and women for intelligent service to 
the community. The word "Menorah” 
is the Hebrew for the traditional sev­
en-branched candelabrum; symbolical­
ly, it stands for Jewish enlightenment 
and idealism.
The first Menorah Society' -was or­
ganized at Harvard in 1907 and the 
Intercollegiate Association was form­
ed in January, 1913 at the University 
of Chicago, at a convention of thirteen 
Menorah Societies. Now the Menorah 
Association counts fifty-eight under­
graduate societies at American col­
leges and universities (including three 
in Canada); and six graduate or com­
munity societies.
A regular meeting of the Menorah 
Society will be held Friday evening, 
January 11, 1918, at 8:15 p. m., at 
the Temple Rodef Sholem, Fifth and 
Morewood avenues. A noted speaker 
will talk on an interesting subject.
The Menorah Society invites all of 
those who are interested in its work 
to attend.
There will also be a meeting of the 
Inter-Collegiate Zionist Society on 
Sunday afternoon, January 13, 1918, 
at 2:30 p. m., at the Tree of Life 
Synagogue, Craft avenue, near Forbes 
street.
ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
MAY ENLIST IN RESERVE
State man, played an exceptionally 
lino game at guard against "Lefty” 
Abrams, holding him to two field 
goals. "Doc” Doherty starred for us 
during the second half, managing to 
drop in four field goals which brought 
the score up nicely and showed West­
inghouse that they were not tackling 
an easy proposition.
The plebes lost to the Westinghouse 
Reserves 22-20. The game was ex­
ceptionally clean, Nichols starring at 
guard and Lynn, who played half-back 
on the varsity football team, surpris­
ing the spectators with some long field 
goals.
Next Saturday, January 11, the var­
sity and plebe teams play return 
games at the Westinghouse Club Gym­
nasium in Willcinsburg. Between the 
halves there are to be movies and 
other entertainment. A good repre­
sentation of Tech is expected present 
to back up our strong five.
The lineup for the Varsity game 
was as follows:
Westinghouse—24. Tech—22.
Kahn.............................F................... Doherty
Marks............................F................... Abrams
Fellenbaum.................C................. Gretzler
Bassett.........................G............... Williams
Graff..............................G................ Levinson
Fiald Goals — Kahn, Fellenbaum, 
Graff 3, Doherty 4, Abrams 2. Foul 
Goals—Abrafs 8 out of 14, Fellen­
baum 3 out of 7, Marks 3 out of G. 
T.ime of Halves—20 minutes. Referee 
—Davis.
DESIGN SERVICE REVEL 
WAS DECIDED SUCCESS
(Continued From Pago One.)
Marguerite Bollinger’s make-up as 
an elderly aristrocratic English wom­
an, showed great taste and skill, es­
pecially in the tinting of her snow- 
white lock of hair. The script, a# far 
as can be ascertained, was written by 
Laura Jean Libbey and Beatrice Fair­
fax, but. A. Conan Doyle may have 
had a hand in it, too.
A light luncli was served in the Ex­
(Continued From Page One.)
"As at first projected, the exemp­
tion was to apply to a flat one-third 
of all engineering students of draft 
age; that is, the upper third to be se­
lected by straight scholastic grading. 
It was pointed out by a number of 
technical educators, however, that in 
the first place it is very difficult, as 
most engineering schools are conduct­
ed, to • determine a fixed percentage 
grading of students, because in many 
schools. such a system of marking is 
hot used. It was further pointed out 
that the constant reduction in the size 
of the upper classes in the technical 
schools would very soon lead to the 
inclusion within the upper third of 
any one class of a number of decided­
ly low-grade engineering students who 
are specifically intended to be exclud­
ed from exemption by the provisions 
of the order.
"It was to moot this contention that 
the final part of the Chief of Engi­
neers' ruling, was added. Under tills 
ruling each faculty will go back 
through its record of the past ten 
years and will endeavor to establish, 
on the basis of Scholastic markings 
and future professional performances, 
the grading above which would be 
classed ono-third of the graduates of 
the school. Having fixed that grading 
In any way satisfactory to themselves, 
they will go over the draft-age stu­
dents in the school and recommend 
as draft exempts all students who ap­
parently arp above that fixed grade. 
It will be seen that this may include 
very much more than one-tliird of 
the present students, particularly if a 
number of the students who have al­
ready left; the college are of the low­
er grade as far as marks and scholas­
tic performance are concerned.
"It is possible, of course, that such 
a system of determination may in­
clude in the draft exempts a smaller 
numerical proportion than one-third, 
but in the opinion of the"educational 
advisors to the Chief of Engineers 
such will not be the fact.
“The Chief of Engineers has includ­
ed in his list of schools every engi­
neering school in the U. S. giving a 
degree at the end of at least a. four 
years’ course, but he has within his 
power the exclusion of an3r school 
whose exempt students do not appear 
in future to measure up to the proper 
standards. It is understood 
that he will keep a careful 
ful watch upon the 'exemption 
methods pursued by these various fac­
ulties and will either by warning or 
by exclusion from the list of accredit­
ed schools be able to keep control of 
the management of the exemptions.’’
FOREIGN STUDENTS TiJ 
ORGANIZE COSMO CLUB
For some time past, a number of 
students at Tech who are interested 
in the customs and social "ideals of for­
eign countries, together with most of 
the foreign students, have been plan­
ning to form a club for mutual benefit. 
The purpose of the organization, 
which is to be called the "Carnegie 
Cosmo Club,” is best explained in the 
following statement by G. H. Smainis, 
of the provisional committee:
"The recognition of the coming ri­
valry for the material development of 
the old nations of the eastern world 
and the necessity for the preparedness 
of the remaining youth for a success­
ful competition, has not only-caused a 
flood of students, into the Semitic 
classes of Germany, but has also been 
the cause of the institution of. new. 
courses for flie study of the customs, 
habits, religions, economic and indus­
trial conditions of foreign lands. This 
same quality of interest has manifest­
ed itself in a smaller measure in Eng­
land’s highest institutions of learning, 
Oxford and Cambridge and in France 
in the University of Paris. In Amer­
ica similar movements are abundant.
Now, whether or not some of our 
students are interested in the material 
evolution of millions of peoples in 
foreign lands, two facts remain un­
changed. i
First. The American Common­
wealth being the" richest state in ex­
istence will continue for a lone: time 
after the war, being, the financier for 
the reconstruction and-development of 
flic world. After the war, the Amer­
ican capital and products of industry 
will surely find a more favorable field 
of investment and expansion in the 
foreign than in the domestic markets. 
Men will naturally have to be employ­
ed for thé expansion of these inter­
ests. The Carnegie Cosmo Club will 
employ those interested to obtain 
some knowledge of foreign countries, 
habits and customs and will thus be 
fhe stimulus for the development of 
further interest along the above lines, 
that may after all result in our being 
better fitted for the coming events.
The second fact, is that even, if a 
man is not interested in any develop­
ments in foreign countries, h»3 must 
not be so narrow minded as to believe 
that America is the residence of all 
the good gods and only the good 
gods.
A man will certainly be happier, and 
probably much more successful in his 
American life if he is familiar with the 
best things of other countries, and it 
is hoped that the club will be instru­
mental in this respect.
As to the foreign students at Tech. 
They feel away from home, from 
friends, from country. Many of them 
know that they will not see their 
homes for six or seven years.
They have to work and study and 
speak and listen in a foreign language, 
a fact which for .many a student 
means nearly if not quite doubling the 
work in school life.
The questions of food, social and cli­
matic conditions, are daily problems 
to be solved and any one of them is 
quite sufficient for a. person to pope 
with. But. when to all these are added 
the problems of the class room the 
task becomes one of a man’s size, and 
(lie man who solves them all and final­
ly obtains his degree is worthy of his 
success.- Thus to t.lie foreign students 
the club will be especially useful.
The club expects to carry out its 
plans in a two-fold manner. *
First. Through social entertain­
ments where the national characteris­
tics of the different nations will be 
depicted. ,
Second. Through lectures by prom­
inent men from other countries who 
happen to be in Pittsburgh. Thus the 
provisional committee expects to have 
with its first organization meeting the 
Indian philosopher and writer, Rustum 
Rustungee, who belongs to the Parcee 
group in India, popularly known in 
America as fire-worshippers.
This year we expect to have several 
lectures on Europe and Asia.
The first meeting will be inaugurat­
ed very soon. Notices will be posted, 
giving particulars as to place and 
date.
All men and women are eligible to 
the club.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
BOARD HOLDS MEETINGS
(Continued From Page One.) 
unless more care is taken by the smok­
ers, a suitable smoking room will be 
provided.
The matter of gambling was also 
taken up. A vigilance committee was 
picked from the student body to re­
port all cases. These students will be 
tried before the student council and 
expulsion would probably follow.
Two hundred and twenty-five dol­
lars was appropriated for new band 
instruments. This should place the 
band on a par with any college band 
in the country.
Irresponsible organizations have, of­
ten-in the past, become~unable tb pay 
their debts, which have always been 
presented, to the Student Activities 
Board and paid. Last year’s board 
passed a resolution that no debts 
would be assumed unless the activity 
had been recognized by the board and 
all bills paid through the graduate 
manager’s office. Believing that mush­
room organizations running bills are 
a bad thing for the reputation of the 
school, the board has.adopted the poli­
cy of last year's board in regards to 
these debts, thereby releasing the stu­
dent activities fund from this drain.
The resignation of Mr. J. R. Gear­
hart as Graduate Manager to take ef­
fect January 1, was accepted. A reso­
lution regulating Mr. Gearhart’s resig­
nation was passed. During the time 
Mr. Gearhart has served, his services 
have been invaluable to the Student 
Activities Board.
Miss Stamm of M. M. C. S. was elect­
ed* as secretary.
THE FRENCH VIEW OF 
COMPULSORY EXERCISE
FACULTY MEMBERS SPEAK 
AT A. A. A. S. MEETINGS
The majority of the sessions of the 
rocont. A. A. A. S. mooting, December
27-Jnnuary 2, woro hold in C. I. T. 
buildings. Tho registration for tlio 
mootings was (525, and it was estimat­
ed that an additional 200 from the af­
filiated societies were in attendance, 
but did not register. The following 
members of our faculty gave address­
es, had papers, or participated in the 
discussions: Director I-Iamerschlag,
Dr. Scott, Dr. Whipple, Dr. Bingham, 
Dr. Miner, Dr. James, Dr. Fettke, Prof. 
Hower, Prof. Kate Gordon, Prof. Thay­
er, Mr. Ruml, Mr. Tliurstone and Mr. 
Nathanson.
RED CROSS MEMBERSHIP 
LESS THAN ANTICIPATED
During the days immediately pre­
ceding the Christmas holidays, a cam­
paign was conducted at Tech in the 
interest of the American Red Cross. 
This campaign was part of that which 
was conducted during the Christmas 
wreelc through the country, the object 
of which was to enlist under the Red 
Cross banner a total of 15,000,000 
members. Unfortunately, for Tech, 
the campaign came at a time when al­
most all the students, contemplating 
a journey home, were short of money. 
As a result the results were rather 
poor, as out of a total of approximate­
ly 3,G00 students, but S00 subscrip­
tions to the Red Cross were received.
The Y. M. C. A. campaign which 
was supported so well by the students 
came at almost the same time as this 
one and it is believed that the former 
hindered it to a great extent.
Every day is a fresh beginning.
Listen, my soul, to the glad refrain; 
And, spite of old sorrow and older sin­
ning,
Take heart with the day and begin 
again. —Anonymous.
CHURCHES
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAI 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craig 
street.
GRACE CHURCH
(Reformed)
AYARD AND DITHRIDGE STREETS 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Pastor 
THE MAKEUP OF A MAN 
Students’ Series 
SUNDAY EVENING SERMONS 
At 7:45 
GENERAL SUBJECT:
"Man is a Soul and has a Body.” 
Nov. 18—The Searchlight of the SouL 
Nov. 25—The Steering Apparatus of 
the Soul.
Dec. 2—The Alarm Clock of the Soul- 
Dee. 9—The Sunshine of the Soul. 
Dec. 16—The Picture Gallery of the- 
Soul.
Dec. 23—Illustrated Lecture.
(Christmas.)
Dec. 30—The Soul’s Book-Keeper.
(The End of Year.)
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH' 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street-. 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. Mr and 7:4& 
P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially -\yeJjGomecI.
The war has just again emphasized 
its importance. It has pitilessly shown 
up all the defects of the preparation 
of our man power. Fortunately; the 
quality of the French race is extra­
ordinary; it possesses, above all, mar­
velous suppleness, it soon catches up 
the time lost. But a good repair is 
never so advantageous as a good and 
proper preparation; of that we must 
be convinced.
When will the time come when peo­
ple will realize that these young peo­
ple are insufficiently p. pi.ed; thar. 
they have not the who; weigh:, es­
pecially the muscular wJght, nec s- 
sary to make a soldier immediately?
Thus it is absolutely, imperatively 
necessary not only to encourage 
sports, but to organize it, to plan out 
in advance a vast program which will 
take hold of our sons as soon as ever 
they are capable of furnishing any ef­
fort, a logical and graduated program 
which will lead them progressively 
through their school days, then to 
athletic societies and thence to their 
regiment.
It is incontestable that in modern 
warfare, still more perhaps than in 
former wars, the soldier must be not 
an athlete properly so-called (for an 
athlete is a prize winner in a general 
competition, and an exceptional indi­
vidual of not much general use if too 
specialized), but a being capable of a 
varied physical effort, an effort which 
is now brief and violent, now slow 
and sustained. 1-Ie must have a brain 
accustomed to rapid physical de­
cisions, which may, at times, be the 
means of .saving his life and preserv­
ing a combatant for his country; he 
must have a strong, unwavering soul 
to face peril, suffering, the unknown. 
He must be in the habit of immediate, 
comprehensive, physical obedience to 
the will of the chief. He must have a 
soul knowing how to command, be­
cause it has first learned to obey. 
The soldier of today, in the midst of 
this frightful harvest of men, is often 
the leader of tomorrow.
Physical training must, therefore, 
like a curriculem of studies, consti­
tute a series of exercises, following 
the child, the youth, the soldier, and 
the man, with the same general under­
lying principles through the various 
ages of his life. -Side by side with' 
gymnasium, properly so-called, sports 
will have their place, and a very im­
portant one, in this training. The ele­
ments of fighting and direct competi­
tion, which in themselves constitute 
the very idea of sport, must be 
brought into play. Of those four 
stages twro, the school and the regi­
ment, must be regulated by the state. 
Physical training, both at school and 
in the regiment, must not only be per­
mitted, must not only be favored, 
must not only be relieved of all legal 
and judicial hindrances and responsi­
bilities, but must b3 made compulsory.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow) r 
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. 
Bible School 9:45. 
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. andi 
3:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
MAKE SH ADYSIDE PRESBYTE­
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church. School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Men’s Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR, D. D., Minister.
r3J3J2M3M3M3MSM2MSMSM3Jc!M3MSM31
PLANS FOR DRILL ANNOUNCED; 
KHAKI UNIFORMS PERMITTED
(Continued From Page One.) 
will be given on war photography, san­
itation, engineering, and every part 
of military work. The whole .course 
is designed as the hardest kind of 
work.
Words are like leaves; and where 
they most abound, much fruit of 
sense beneath is rarely found.—Pope.
RODEF SHALOM TEMPLE 
4905 FIFTH AVENUE 
Near Morewood 
Saturday Services—10:30 A. M. 
Sunday Lectures—10:30 A. M.
Visiting Rabbis from the lead­
ing congregations of the country 
will occupy the pulpit this win­
ter. A different Rabbi each 
week.
Life is not jest and amusement; life 
is not even enjoyment; life is hard 
labor.—Tu rgen i ef.
If you wish to preserve your secret, 
wrap it up in frankness—Alexander ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS.
DANCE
iO* PENCILT
HE perfec-[ 
tion of pencil 
quality — un­
equalled for 
smoothness, uni­
formity of grading 
and durability.
17 black degrees* 
from 6B softest to 
to 9H hardest, and 
hard and medium 
(indelible) copy­
ing.
Loo\ for the distinc­
tive VENUS finishI
/FREE!
Thi9 trial box 
with five VENUS Drawing Pencils, 
Holder and VENUS Eraser 
sent free. Write 
for it.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
217 Fifth Ave., N. Y. v 
Dept. W 27
Try the VENUS Eraser, too. Made \ 
in I 2 sizes. $2.00 per box.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 9, 1918THE TARTANPage Thre
Genuine
French
Briar
A Real Pipe
forCollege Men
These are two of the 24 popular shapes in which you can get the
Stratford #
$1.00 and up
W D C Hand Made
$1.50 and up 
Each a fine pipe, with sterling1 silver ring 
and vulcanite bit. Leading dealers in town carry a full as­
sortment. Select your favorite style.
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York r 
World*a Largest Pipe Manufacturer«
DO YOU DANCE? I
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon­
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
436 Seventh Ave. §
All Kinds of BATTERIES |
Repaired and Recharged §
VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVOLO.XXXXXXXXX INfSJ3M3Mo!MciÎDUG!J2JcilSJDÎJD!Jc!JËJDUciJDiJËlDU[i!Jcij[HJeiJeiJSMSMSM2MSMSM3MSMËMSi3M2MSM3/SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
IlllUllilllllllllllllllllllilllilllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllll^
1 • II Carnegie Institute of Technology ¡
THE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied Science—Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and sanitary 
enginereing, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
courses in science in preparation for teaching or for research and 
graduate courses.
School of Applied Design—Offers courses in architecture, paint­
ing, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic arts, open 
to men and women, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Also 
graduate courses.
School of Applied Industries—Offers industrial courses in ma­
chine construction, building construction, general equipment, and 
installation, and printing. Also a course for training industrial 
teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Industrial 
Education. Short courses of eight months are offered in machine 
shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, electric wiring, plumping, 
foundry, forging and bricklaying for more mature applicants who 
have had some experience in these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School—For women. Offers a regu­
lar day coui*se of general' training, with particular emphasis on 
home-making, followed by specialized training in household eco­
nomics, costume economics, home arts and crafts, general science, 
or social work, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
courses for the training of teachers in thé above subjects.
Night Courses—The four schools offer night courses in practic­
ally all of the above subjects to provide educational opportunities 
for those who are at work during the day.
Fees—The total fees for a day course are $48.00 a year for resi­
dents of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-residents. For night courses, 
$16.00 for residents, and $18.00 for non-residents.
For further information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh.
McDOUGALL’S DANCING CLASSES
SHADY AND PENN—DANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY 
4616 FORBES STREET—FRI DAY EVENINGS 
Private Lessons and Beginners’ Classes every day and evening. 
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra
njuiiiiiiiiiimnuiiininiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiuDiuDiiinifliiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiniiiyuiiiiniDnnniDininiiiiuiuiiiiiHiinuDinDinniirjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiinnmuiuii». F. FREDE
635-37 SMITHFIELD STREET, PITTSBURGH
THE KNABE-AMPIC'O
REPRODUCING PIANO
THE KNABE—with the Ampico Reproducing Action—brings the 
music you love to your fireside. For the Ampico has set music free— 
it has set free the flexible fingers, the marvelous technic, the glowing 
tone quality and poetic magnetism of great pianists, from the narrow 
confines of the concert stage, and today they will play for you in your 
own home whenever you wish to hear them. Just as Aladdin rubbed 
his lamp to bring forth the Genie, just so may you press a lever and 
bring forth the Genius of Music.
You may hear, in your home, great artists play a Liszt Rhapsodie 
or a Chopin Ballade—you may hear your favorite Christmas hymn or 
the newest dance music—played by masters in their field of music. 
And this Ampico will play them all with an art so perfect that all 
thought of the reproducing action will be lost. You will be conscious 
only of the exquisite skill of the musician playing for you.
Here indeed is real music for your home. The Ampico Reproduc­
ing Pianos are shown in several models of Uprights and Grand Pianos. 
Hear this new and wonderful instrument today.
THE AMPICO IN THE KNABE, HAINES BROS. AND FRANKLIN 
PIANOS, SOLD EXCLUSIVELY BY US. Priced As Follows:
UPRIGHTS, $850 to $1,350--------------------------------GRANDS, $1,600 to $2,050
Convenient Terms Always a Part of Frederick Service.
OFFICIAL NOTICES
A General Assembly o.t’ the faculty and day students has been 
oallcd for Wednesday morning, January 16. at 11 :30 in the Lecture 
Hall of the Carnegie Institute, not the Music Hall.
The principal speaker will be Mr. Frank 1*. MeKibben of the 
United States Government Shipping Board who will give an illustrat­
ed war lecture relating to ship construction, ocean transportation, 
and the ship building problem. This lecture is not technical, the title 
being “Can America Finish Those Ships in Time?”
The speedy construction of a large number of merchant ships is 
one of the most important and serious problems with which our coun­
try is at present concerned. Mr. McICibben will bring us authorita­
tive word on this subject as he officially represents the Emergency 
Fleet Corporation of the United States Shipping Board.
FINE CHANCE FOR TECH 
POETS TO SHOW SKILL
LOST ARTICLES—Lost or found articles in the buildings of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology should be turned in or called for at 
the Post Office in the Central Building.
On December 8th the Secretary of War ordered the followin 
paragraph added by the Provost Marshal General to Section 151 of 
the Selective Service Regulations concerning the draft: “Under
such regulations as the Chief of Engineers may prescribe, a propor­
tion of the students pursuing an engineering course in one oL! the ap­
proved technical engineering schools listed in the War Department, 
as named by the school faculty, may enlist in the Enlisted Reserve 
Corps of the Engineer Department and thereafter, upon presentation 
by the registrant to his local board of a certificate of enlistment, 
such.certificate shall be filed with his questionnaire and the registrant 
shall be placed in Class V on the ground that he is in the military ser­
vice of the United States.”
Carnegie Institute of Technology is one of the approved engineer­
ing schools mentioned in the above paragraph, and any student in the 
School of Applied Science who is registered under the draft may now 
enlist in the Engineers’ Reserve and be granted temporary exemp­
tion from military service until lie has completed his course, provided 
lie is recommended by the faculty.
In order to receive prompt, consideration, applications from can­
didates now in school, who are over 21 years of age, should be sub­
mitted so as to reach the office of the Chief of Engineers in Washing­
ton not later than January 15th. The application from a person who 
has not reached this age at the present time must be submitted with­
in three months before or one month after he readies the age of 21.
Night students do not come within the scope of the new ruling 
of the War Department.
Engineering students in I In* day School of Applied Science de­
siring to enlist under the above rufing should confer' with the Regis­
trar at once concerning the procedure to be followed.
A. W. TARBELL.
NITE SCIENCE SMOKER
PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
MURDOCH, KERR & COMPANY
Incorporated
Makers of CATALOGUES, MAGAZINES, NEWSPAPERS and BOOKS 
ALL KINDS OF MERCANTILE PRINTING 
Telephone 1052 Grant. STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY WAYS
M3JSMSM2/3M3M3MSMSMSMSMS/SMS/3J
(Continued From Page One.) 
nelly then gave a short .talk, Interest­
ing as usual, and his story of how Ed. 
Green of Science alighted among our 
own Tech men, now in service In 
France, did surely touqji our hearts. 
Unconsciously we breathed "Dear Old j 
Tech.” Lieut. Skinkle, Tech’s first 
commissioned student, then played 
“Over There,” on the piano. We hate 
to think of losing dear old Skinkle. j 
The Director then addressed the fel­
lows. He spoke of the draft, as de­
scended from the “selection" of the 
Greek and the Roman days. The se­
lected were picked to represent the 
nation. I-ie cited a point worthy of 
interest. Of the 1,600,000 men called 
in the first draft, only 31 were experts 
in oxy-actetylene welding, and the 
government needs thousands for field 
service, welding parts and repairing 
machinery. Other needs of the gov­
ernment were brought out, showing 
how little we are prepared. 01' con­
siderable interest were the courses, 
which he said, will be instituted at 
Science, Industry and Design.'
He then took up his topic "Demo­
cracy and Genius.” Our Nite schools, 
he claimed, represented real demo­
cracy. They draw from all sizes and 
shapes, those attractive to the ladies 
and those—well, silence is golden. He 
then gave a little of the history of 
Col. Lewis and the Lewis gun. As he 
said, “No democracy is real and perm­
anent which is not open-minded and 
does not recognize genius.” Prof. “Hap­
py” I-Iower then took the floor Avith 
his famous “smile that won’t come 
off.” He spoke of the part the gov­
ernment expects of Tech—to make 
engineers of men after four year’s 
training. Speaking of his trip to a 
college in a little country town, “a co­
ed sort of place where the girls make 
better grades than the men,” and “the 
profs, relax by singing in the choir, 
he said he was not used to speaking 
in a chapel. Sort of left us to our 
own conclusions, which puts us two 
good ones ahead of his story. On ar­
riving at. this place, he looked for a 
restaurant, any kind that served 
meals. He walked around the town 
and finally found one. It wasn’t open 
yet. Too early. So he walked around 
the town ten more times, which town 
by the way, had only one square. 
Finally he found the restaurant open 
and went in. Upon ordering “ham 
and eggs,’’ he received the reply, “it’s 
Tuesday.” He ate something else. 
After he finished he inquired about 
the time the cars left for the college. 
Well, the trolley cars left on the even 
hour. Looking at his watch, he found 
the time 8:01. On his recent trip to 
New York he stayed up late to see 
the illumination of the city, as illumi­
nation is a point of interest with him. 
The point of interest with us, how­
ever, is the fact that this sounds like 
a good excuse for a future occasion 
since comets are rare and eclipses far 
between.
“Dear Old Tech” was then sung af­
ter which Lieut. Skinkle rendered his 
masterpiece of his own composition.
. Lieut. Morgan then spoke to the fel­
lows of various matters of school in-
terest after which there was a general 
discussion.
The management of the Sclieriley 
Hotel must have received a tip from 
our watchman for when it began to 
get late, they darkened the lights for 
a second. From force of habit every- 
ane said ’fcwas time to go liome and 
they left with pleasant memories of 
ii pleasant evening.
FORMER INSTRUCTOR IS
ENTHUSIASTIC OVER WAR
(Continued From Pago One) 
French 
German 
Classics 
Economics, etc.
And we have many good professors 
among the otllcers. It. Is run very 
like a University. They have elected 
me president and I have my hands 
full. I am glad the Americans are 
coming. 1 hope and believe that they 
will fight as well as the Canadians 
who now are among the first troops in 
the world.
Vimv, Messlnes; and Paschendach 
are the three great achievements of 
the summer campaign. I hope the 
Americans have lots of British Iron in 
their composition for it takes iron to 
play this game and stick it.
Please give my kindest regards to 
Miss Breed, Mrs. Hamerschlag, Libby, 
Esquerre, and all my friends. We ar 
all determined to stick it out till we 
win if it takes every man. Thanks 
for your many kindnesses and kind 
thoughts.
Sincerely,
(S.) FRANK DAY.
He is great who is what he is from 
nature, and who never reminds us of 
others.—Emerson.
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
m(3
M m
[3 £
Engineers’ Equipment, Instru- [| 
ments of Precision, Blue Print 13 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
A communication has been received 
from The Strafford Company, Publish­
ers, relative to "The College Anthol­
ogy” for 1917-18'. It is as follows:
“We are now collecting the material 
for our 1917-1S College Anthology 
(Vol. UI). We want, your college to 
be even better represented than in 
previous years. All students who are 
writing poetry are urged to send us 
their best work for possible inclusion 
in this Anthology. Poems should be 
submitted not. later than March 15, 
191S.
"Send in your poetry for the Col­
lege Anthology.
"Address all communications to 
HENRY T. SCHNITTKIND, PH. D., 
Editorial Department,
The Strafford Company. Publishers,
32 Oliver St., Boston, Mass.
INTERESTING EVENTS 
AT OTHER COLLEGES
Yale has accepted the offer of a 
graduate to provide a service flag to 
record the fact that about 1,400 men 
— both from the faculty and student 
body--have left the university work 
since the beginning of the war and en­
gaged in some active form of war ser- 
vico.
The Finance Committee of the Grad­
uate Council of Princeton reports that 
during the past year the council col­
lected $82,354.99, the largest fund in 
any year since 1910. It was possible 
for the graduate body to pay to the 
university its annual pledge of $50,000 
and also to wipe out the deficit of the 
preceding year. $22,250. The class of 
1901 has won the alumni fund trophy. 
The Alumni are now asked to help 
meet the $145,000 deficit which Prince­
ton faces this year.
The United States Naval Radio 
School at Harvard will be Increased to 
a membership of four thousand within 
a very short time. The present en­
rollment is 1,950.
GRADUATE GIVES TALK
ON T-N-T. MANUFACTURE
(Continued From Pago One.) 
plication of T. N. T.; (j) General ad­
vantage of T. N. T. as an explosive.
Although T. N. T. is made by sev­
eral processes, the most, important 
and best is the three stage process. 
Tills Is done by nitrating toluol with 
nitric and sulphuric adds. Toluol Is 
a clear liquid very much similar to 
bonzene in appearance and properties. 
It. Is obtained from coal tar distilla­
tion. In the first, stago or stop, the 
toluol is nitrated with the spent adds 
from the second stago to mononltrolu- 
»1. The nitration takes place In a 
large kettle made of armor plate stool 
and is about six foot In diameter and 
four foot deep. In the kottlo are two 
stirring paddles to keep the mixture 
aglt.at.od and a set of colls through 
which steam or water can bo passed 
for cooling or heating I ho mixture. 
The kettle is covered with an Iron lid, 
which Is bolted on. A Hue loads to 
the outside of the house to carry off 
the fumos.
After the first stage Is oomplotod, 
the spent add Is drawn off and the 
add from the third stage Is placed 
ijpon the M. N. T. The product of 
this reaction Is dinitrotoluol. After 
the action is completed, the product 
and add are separated, the product 
remaining in the kettle and the add 
run to the add tank. Fresh acids are 
then placed on the D. N. T. These 
acids consist of mixed acids, which is 
a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids 
and oleum. Trinitrotoluol is the pro­
duct ol' this reaction.
This product Is then run to a large 
tank made of cypress wood or lead 
line, where it Is washed with hot 
water and agitation until acid free, 
After the T.-N. T. is fret* from acid 
it is run into an open kettle where it 
is cooled and crystalized. The T. N. 
T. is then screened and packed ready 
for shipment. In some plants the T. 
N. T. is purified by various processes 
before it is shipped.
T. N. T, is a very powerful explo­
sive, being of the shattering class. It 
is not as powerful as nitroglycerine, 
but is safer in handling. It has an 
advantage over picric acid, in that it 
does not form metal salts when in con­
tact with the walls of shells or mines, 
which salts are very dangerous and 
make the explosive more sensitive.
The lecture was enjoyed by about 
75 chemical students and professors. 
Smokes were passed around and all 
voted that the meeting was most suc­
cessful in an intellectual way and as a 
social gathering.
OFIFCA
§ The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any­
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
P«*ice $50
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
Bell Phone 3465 Grant. §
J. G. Marshall 
Company
=, OFFICE, SCHOOL AND 
¡3 LIBRARY FURNITURE b
959 LIBERTY AVENUE f 
PITTSBURGH, PA. q
nrèlfcllêy tili ë21iIiniU2iêI/tî2
i i'1“SGHENLEY EATS”
A good place to got a good meal.
Meet your friends here on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor.
CRAIG AND FORBES
fesiSJSJEIEfEiSfM^
1 OAKLAND 
HARDWARE CO. i
HARDWARE AND
HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS j,. 
3606 FORBES STREET
PITTSBURGH, PA. . -
Our convenient location in Oakland 
onabloB us to glvo you excellent sorv- 
lco. Cleaning and pressing done on 
short notlco. Spoclal sorvico to frur 
tornltles and rooming houses. Let us 
have a trjal order. Call Schonloy 875. 
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
J! WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Boll Phone 239 Schcnley. |j 
Moving, Packing and Storing |j 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen- ^ 
era I Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
IS/SMSMSMS/SMSMSMSMS/SMSMclMS/SJci 
foliaiSMgfQjj
C. c7H. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
STATIONER AND 
NEWSDEALER 
Phone 9076 Schenley.
There are nettles everywhere,
But smooth green grasses are mor? 
common still;
The blue of heaven is larger than 
the doud.
ís/s/s/3/3/óí/3/in/s/üiíin/í3/íi?/cí/s/üí/fii/sfin/s/c?/éi/s/nifin/c3J
I GET YOUR HAIR CUT |! 
•----------at the..............
I TECH BARBER SHOP I
Nearest to Tech
CRAIG AND FORBES gIsj FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
•j £
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac­
tory Rebuilt Ma­
chines.
lAmerican Writing'Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
Mellon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave. 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000
¡V
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
D!i;!!ll!!ll!gi!IIil[lllll!!gili!!l!iliaiUillllllU

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, January 9, 1918THE TARTAN
the students* conBider these things and 
that in the future men should be more 
careful with the club room than they 
have been.
The Senate also adopted the alum­
nus ring. The idea provides that any 
Tech graduate or good-standing Sen­
ior who is in the second semester 
of his senior year, may purchase the 
ring. This question is to be finally de­
cided upon by the Students’ Council of 
the four schools.
The following committees have been 
appointed in agreement with action 
as passed at the regular meeting Jan­
uary 3, 1918:
Insignia—
Hoban 
Giffen 
Dance—
Todd 
Barron 
Flag—
Obert 
Hermann 
By-Laws—
Wolfe 
Schumway 
Campus—
Ellerton
Sewell.
daily schedule is necessary.
Assuring you that you have my best 
wishes throughout this year and years 
to come.
Sincerely,
SERGT. JOHN C. ROBINSON, 
Headquarters Co.,
351st Field Artillery, 
Camp Meade, Md.
P. S. I wish the entire student 
body a great year.—J. C. R.
P.LUDEBUEHL& SON
SHOES ANO HOSIERY FENN AND FBANKSTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
Mordeeai Lipman, '17, Commercial, 
is one of the Tech men who enlisted 
last summer in the "Pittsburgh 
Pioneers," now officially known as the 
5th U. S. Engineers, N. A. Hi« letter 
to one of the fifth year Night Science 
men tells a few of his experiences 
since crossing the water.
General Headquarters,
A. E. F., France, 
Wednesday, Nov. 7, 1917. 
Dear Julius:
Yesterday I received your letter dat­
ed Sept. 24 and was very glad to know 
my postal eventually landed.
Glad to hear that quite a few of the 
fellows got commissions. It’s the same 
old tiling over again. "The early bird 
catches the worm," but in this case, 
the late bird got something better. 
However, I do not envy them at all as 
you will presently see.
, When we hit France, I was still 
with my regiment, but three days lat­
er I was sent to Paris on detached 
service as a translator for General 
Headquarters. Remained there about 
.six weeks. I had a mighty good time 
there, believe me, albeit I behaved my­
self. Sounds paradoxical, but it is 
true. I was just getting ready to kind 
of settle down when Headquarters 
moved. I went with them and am 
i rill here, getting more and more solid 
so that my chances of rejoining my 
regiment are very slim. Am still do­
ing translating and getting a half-Nel­
son on the language of the natives.
While in Paris, I ran into Dolly 
Shuman of Central High. He was with 
the American Field Service and I 
think was getting a commission in the 
artillery. Here in this one-cylinder 
village, at the moving picture show, I 
met Landon, who also graduated from 
Central with us. Some coincidence, 
n’est ce pas?
So much for my work and our mu­
tual friends. Personally I never felt 
better in my life. Sleep in stone build­
ings, have electric lights, cots, mat­
tresses, stoves, shower-baths, some­
body to sweep from under the bunk, 
washing given out. . . . This is a 
sort of "soldiering de luxe.” Landon 
said lie couldn’t recognize me, as I 
had gotten fat. My hardest work Is 
sitting nl a table from 8:30 to 11:30 
and 1:30 to 4:30 and wrestle with 
French military terms. Am at pres­
ent a corporal and you can never tell 
when you get something better. So 
that everything here is rosy. I get a 
letter home and receive an answer 
in live weeks. Have everything neces­
sary for physical comfort and am in 
no need for any mental comfort. . . . 
Your letters, at loast, are not censored, 
so go ahead and tell me the news. Tell 
me some nows of the school. Did we 
play football this year?. That’s how 
Ignorant I am in all things civil and 
-respectable, I could tell you lots of 
military things and—outrageous news 
—if I could.
So good luck to you and I hanks for 
your loiter and desire to send 1110 
things but I don’t need them. You 
e,an send 1110 a Tartan now and then. 
Keep me posted on I he fellows, Write 
often and I’ll answer you.
You ought lo see the women in this 
La Hollo Franco. The streets remind 
me of a matinee1 in the homo theatres, 
nothing but women.
Well, so long, J.,
As ever,
MAX.
Corporal Mordeeai Lipman,
General Headquarters,
American Expeditionary Forces, 
Training Section, Franco.
The standing of a man Is as 
as not told by his footwear—if he iw 
careless of that, he’s apt to be negli­
gent of more important things. It 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
a 11 right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are “all right." Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.Mr. K. K. Stevens of the Dept, of 
Chem. Eng. was recently called to the 
Minneapolis Steel Co. plant at Duluth 
to act as a government chemist for 
two weeks, checking analyses of shell 
steel for the purpose of allowing the 
immediate release of 6,300 tons.Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
1 CAPITAL, -................................................................* $200,000.00 i
1 SURPLUS,..............................................................................................$200,000/00 |
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT |
iiiiiiiiii
“AN ational Institution ”
| Browning, King & Company 1
| CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 1 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
¦ll!:iliilll!!IIII!lIIII!I!l!llllIllSi|l|illlip»^
Drnwiiwc and Mntlmmntlcul InHtru- 
mcntn.
Art« and Crafld Supplica.
Fino Tool«
Completo Militimi TminlitR Equip* 
monts.
Mr. N. L. I-Ioopingarner, formerly of 
the University of Texas, and until his 
recent resignation to enter govern 
ment service a fellow in the Bureau 
of Salesmanship Research, C. I. T., has 
an article in a recent issue of "School 
and Society” entitled “Visual Instruc­
tion.”
At a New York Vocational Bureau 
convention, of which Miss Holmes, 
head of the Secretarial Department, 
was the delegate of our Intercolegiate 
Vocational Bureau, an appeal was 
made to Washington to establish an 
Employment Bureau for Women there.
At the present time, women employ­
ed by the Government are selected at 
random through the various depart­
ments. If a bureau were opened, wom­
en wishing employment could apply 
there, be examined and the most ef­
ficient selected for the work.
Mr. .R. Fettke, of the Dept, of Metal 
and Mining Eng., has been engaged 
by the Pennsylvania Topographic and 
Geologic Survey to make a study of 
different methods of recovering oil 
from oi! shales and to make a thor­
ough investigation of the oil shale re­
sources of the State.
^ 7 230-234,/ Diamond Tr' / Pmrsuuiuai
Profe' For T. B. Beatty of the Drama 
Dept.. g; ve a lecture-recital from "The 
Merchant of Venice,” before the Wom­
an’s Club of Crafton, on December 14.
¡¡j ALL WORK GUARANTEED PROMPT SERVICE ^
I JAMES PARISI 1
S MODERN ELECTRIC SHOE REPAIRING §j
§ 217/a ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA. jg
|j BEST LEATHER USED j§
Dr. A. J. Beatty, of the Bureau of 
Salesmanship Research, addressed the 
convention of the American Multi­
graph S"les Company at Cleveland 011 
December 27, and the Fuller-Morriso^ 
Company convention at Chicago 011 
the 28th.
On Wednesday, January 2. Miss Ar- 
mide Louise Sanford of the M. M. C. S. 
secretarial class of 1916, who for more 
than a year has been private secre­
tary to Director Ilamerschlag, was 
married to Mr. Richard Jennings of 
Fifth avenue, Pittsburgh. The wed­
ding took place in the First Presby­
terian Church of Carnegie, with the 
Rev. Joseph M. Duff officiating. At 
the conclusion of a. honeymoon spent 
on the Pacific Coast, Mr. and Mrs. 
Jennings will make their home in 
Pittsburgh.
CANDIES
Miss Clara M. Davidson of the Dept 
of Honi i Arts and Crafts, talks today 
on "Home Decoration," before the’ 
Women’s Club of Steubenville, Ohio
There is no finer expression 
of friendship than the sending 
of a Box of R. V. B. Chocolates.
"Ask the girl who knows.”
SELLING ÄT ALL 
STORES
The Margaret Morrison Y. W. C. A. 
election in its final form is as fol­
lows:
Faculty Advisor - Miss Marion 
Holmes.
President—K. Salome Stamm.
Vice President—Edith Gurley.
Secretary—Anna Benscoter.
Treasurer—Lynda Lyman.
Chairmen of:
Religious Meetings Committee—An­
nette Carpenter.
Association News—Helene Field.
Finance Committee—Clare Todd.
Social Committee — Dorothea Fred­
erick.
A list of committee members will 
be posted later.
The Smoke and Dust Abatement So | 
ciety of Pittsburgh has sent Mr. C.
.1. Taylor, head of the Painting and 
Decoration department of the Design 
School, a bulletin of regulations con­
cerning a poster contest. All students -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of Pittsburgh are eligible to submit, ferred Monday with a committee oft now known, fifty dollars, twenty-five, 
a poster containing an appeal for th ¦ the society, and the prizes were decid- twenty, ten, four fives and ten one 
abatement of smoke. Mr. Taylor con-; ed upon. They will be as far as is I dollar prizes.iPMiMcMilliM
1 STUDENT LUNCHEON ¡i;
| Milk or Coffee, 5c Pie, 6c per cut e 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
;.| Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c qi 
Rolls and Butter, 5c 
;!j Ice Cream, 10c
THE HALLER BAKERY ¡i 
3610 FORBES STREET ¡¡j 
troquola Block.
mnuiniuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiuiiiiiiinttiiiiiuniiiiuiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiintiiiiniiiiiiiuiniiiiiitiiiiniuiiiinil 
I Piorpont, Siviter & Co. |
i ENGRAVING PRINTING
EMBOSSING 
i I Engraved Calling Card«
Wedding Invitation« 
Announcements
Dance Program« 
Phono 358 HUand.
119 SHADY AVENUE
Why are 1 7 varieties of pure Turkish
tobaccos used in Murad?
Why is Murad THE Turkish cigarette?
Why have Murad sales climbed—climbed— 
climbed beyond all other high-grade cigarettes?
At a special meeting called by the 
president, the plebes of the Design 
School of Carnegie Tech voted by a 
large majority to reject, the power of 
self-government, proffered by the De­
sign Senate. The discussions were 
many and most exhaustive and much 
personal feeling was shown. The 
plebos got Information that the senate 
were seriously thinking of taking back 
the power they had given. To antici­
pate such action a special meeting 
was called. President Kelley being 
absent., Mr. Ray presided, much to 
everybody’s satisfaction.
üüiAcmjZ^ímty
Makers of .the Highest Grade Turkish 
and Egyptian Cigarettes in the WorldWrïaAÿifïaJ \CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY 
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY 
MAE MARSH
The Science Senate started the 
new year right by a well attended 
meeting 011 Thursday evening, Jan­
uary 3. Every member present enter­
ed into every discussion, and in gen­
eral, a great deal of enthusiasm was 
shown. A few of the questions dis­
cussed at the meeting are not yet to 
be disclosed to students, but they 
promise to be pleasant surprises when 
made known.
However, one thing was considered 
which ought to receive not only the 
attention but the co-operation of every 
Science man—namely, the question of 
fixing up the club room. The Senate 
came to the conclusion that all they 
can do is to repair the furniture, but 
the care of the room must lie in the 
hands of the students. The club 
room belongs to the students. It is a 
room in which the student spends an 
hour of study or recreation and the 
student ought, therefore, take care of 
his club room as he would of any other 
personal belonging. When a man 
breaks a chair ho, besides ten other 
fellows, may be deprived of a seat 
the next day. Broken furniture de­
tracts from the spirit of coziness and 
comfort which one likes to feol in a 
club room. The Senate wishes that
REMEMBER-
Turkish tobacco is 
the world’s moat 
famous tobacco for I 
cigarettes. I
The following letter was received a 
few days ago by Dean Connelly from 
Sergeant John C. Robinson of the 351st 
Field Artillery. Mr. Robinson, at the 
time of his enlistment, was in his 
fourth year in the Industries Teach­
er’s Course and was a popular man 
both in school and out.
Dear Dean Connelly:
The letter and paper have been re­
ceived by me and you don’t know how 
much I appreciate both. To be frank 
the letter will be kept by me and 
placed among those I value highly.
I was fortunate enough to get home 
for Xmas and for the first time in my 
life I realized what "time” in its prop­
er sense really meant. I was never 
rushed so for "time” in my life. The 
rush a student passes through in or­
der to bring his back "lob” reports to 
date is not even the suggestion of 
such a rush.
Army life is great in the training 
•amps for those who can get great 
tilings out 01’ it. I, for one, think it 
is great. Many peculiar things turn 
up now and then to relieve the great 
monotony. We eat enough and In this 
respect we outshine the Beanery. 
Dean, at times 1 am compelled to put 
011 my rubber boots, close my eyes 
and just, wade into the mess. After 
hard drills one becomes accustomed 1 
to "get, away” with anything.
1 am olY again, now. The training 
camp scheduled to open 011 the fifth 
of January is, as all signs indicate, to 
contain one bronze representative 
from "Old Tech."
I am working harder than ever, 
Dean, and 1 have a. few hours to my­
self. I have a large class in “reading 
and writing” and you would be sur­
prised at the progress they have made.
To close before I interrupt your
Zoel J. ParenteauV. D. NIRELLA
A. David Broudy 
Efficiency with Elegance 
THE NIRELLA ORCHESTRAS 
410 SIXTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone Grant 360 
Service which is a Distinctive 
Asset to Host and Hostess.
Bellefield Shoe | 
Repairing
i FORBES STREET
lv Opposite Carnegie Library. E
¿3 High class work done while you ¡j, 
vJ wait. 15
•’] LOW PRICES TO TECH E
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
Packages of Tens and Twenties
NOMINATIONS
ItíJElDÜtíJSJfcüCSoph. Senator.
The following men have been 
nominated for the Science Sen­
ate by the Sophomore Class to 
fill the unexpired torni of Foxon, 
’lit, who recently enlisted in the 
Aviation Corps and has left, 
school :
M. A. FAIR,
L. E. EM ERICH,
.1. HARRIS,
S. H. STUPAKOFF.
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOSi*^n¡ "i 1 >
The TURKISHC1GÄREIH
! FORBES AND ATWOOD STS. | 
1 Phono« 160—3161 Schonloy j 
sal8PECIAL PRICES TO TECH |
Fe STUDENTStain
a vtiSISElSMSIBJBJSMSHSJSJSiSJSISJS/BJSJ
ERTISE AND GET RESU
