Sorority 
Skit 
Pictures 
See Page 3—
Highlights 
Of Past 
Carnivals 
See Page 6—
Spring Carnival Around The Corner
Queen Campaigns End 
In Big Demonstration
Morewood Gardens’ courtyard was the scene of a mass demon­
stration of masculine approval last Wednesday evening. This was 
the final night for the Spring Carnival Queen campaigns, and the 
sororities serenaded Tech’s fraternities and dorms with songs from
the skits presented in Skibo on^—---------------------------------------------
Tuesday and Wednesday.
The Theta Xi polka band, in­
cluding a big bass drum, marched 
down the middle of Morewood 
Avenue followed the Chi Omegas. 
The raincoat-clad AEPhi’s joined 
in the polka concert, keeping time 
to the beats of the drum with their 
umbrellas, and the Chi O’s formed 
a chorus line in front of the PiKA 
house. Members of the fraterni­
ties, dorm residents, grad students 
and men from Pitt and Duquesne, 
attracted by the noise and mass 
confusion, soon formed a huge 
torch light parade in front of 
Morewood, entertained by the pol­
ka band and the sororities’ singing 
and dancing.
Convertibles driven by the Kap­
pa Sigs and fillecf ' with Kappas 
soon joined one of the largest and 
noisiest crowds that ever graced 
the sacred grounds of Morewood. 
More singing, a bunny hop organ­
ized with the addition of the Phi 
Kaps and D G’s, and a square 
dance brought to a close a grand 
party enjc/ed thoroughly by girls 
and fellows alike.
Also present were such noted 
personalities as Mrs. Hagins and 
Dean David. Rumor has it that a 
hula dance was encouraged by a 
Sigma Nu printer and that the 
Dean was actually invited to join!
In Case Of Rain
Although the Spring Car­
nival Committee feels sure 
that the weather will be per­
fect for Carnival, provisions 
have been made in case the 
dew becomes abominably 
heavy. Coronation and Call 
Day and the Street Dance will 
be held in the gym in case of 
rain and raincoats are suggest­
ed for the buggy race.
MMCC Students 
Win Nationivide 
Design Contest
Two juniors at Carnegie Tech 
have been awarded top honors in 
the annual Design Award Project 
conducted in the school’s depart­
ment of home economics by 
Waldes Kohinoor, Inc., Long Is­
land City, N. Y., manufacturer of 
slide fasteners and other products.
Susan Treon captured first place 
in the men’s wear competition, and 
Mrs. Carol Coyne Watt was award­
ed first place in the boy’s wear di­
vision. Miss Louanne Barberie, of 
the Jadies Fashion Service and a 
Carnegie Tech alumna, an­
nounced the winners after giving 
a critique of designs.
Judges for the competition were 
Bert Bacharach, syndicated col­
umnist and men’s fashion author­
ity; Richard Steinweg, styling co­
ordinator of the Berkray Corp., 
manufacturers of sportswear and 
outerwear; and Miss Barberie. A 
total of 70 entries were submit­
ted. They were judged, Miss Bar­
berie said, on the basis of fashion 
significance,, market potential, 
suitability to modern production 
techniques and originality in the 
use of a Waldes slide fastener. 
The winning designs were select­
ed by the judges last week in New 
York.
Also receiving awards in the 
competition were Jan Jerles, Bet­
ty Dunlap, Suzanne Murdoch, Su­
san Armstrong, and Mary B. 
Walsh.
Other schools participating in 
the program are Drexel Institute 
of Technology, Philadelphia; 
Stephens College, Columbia, Mis­
souri; Washington University, St. 
Louis; and the University of Cali­
fornia at Los Angeles (UCLA).
CIT Jumps To High Gear 
For Frolic Internationale
Once again the big weekend is at hand—Spring Carnival, cracked eggs, mud-splattered 
fellows, tired booth chairmen—but all of it fun. This year the midway has been revised 
to add variety and interest and to carry out the Carnival theme, which is Frolic Inter-
nationale.
The Carnival program this
Dancers in two scenes from this years Scotch 
production. (See page 7).
’n Soda musical
Thistle Announces 
Eugene Burke Is 
Next Year’s Editor
The annual Thistle Banquet was 
held at the Carnegie Union on 
Monday, April 25, 1955. The toast­
master for the occasion was Neil 
Bernstein. The program consisted 
of the introduction of the Editorial 
Staff of ’55, remarks by Dean Ben 
E. David, the introduction oi the 
Thistle Queen candidates, the in­
troduction of the ’56 Editorial Staff 
and a presentation to the outgoing 
editor.
Next year the Thistle will be 
headed by Eugene Burke as editor. 
Working with him will be Jim 
Plugge as managing editor, Jim 
Boyd as business manager, Bob 
Garrison as circulation manager, 
[Continued on page 7]
Donner Hall Open House Set
Donner Hall Lounge
This Is the site of the dedication ceremonies which will take
place on Saturday, May 14.
? On Saturday, May 14, Donner 
Hall, Carnegie’s new men’s dormi­
tory, will be open for public in­
spection. Parents and friends are 
cordially invited, and all students 
are especially urged to come. All 
rooms and facilities are scheduled 
to be open to the public, from 1:30 
p.m. until 5:00 p.m. The Men’s 
Dorm Council will serve as guides 
for the occasion.
A short program that has been 
will take place during the 
Opening remarks will 
by J. M. Bovard of the 
Board of Trustees. A 
dedication presentation by Joseph 
Donner, the grandson of the donor, 
will follow. He will present Presi­
dent Warner with an architectural 
sketch of the building. Closing re­
marks whl be given by William P. 
Zakowicz, president of Men’s 
Dorm Council. After the official 
open house period, a dance spon­
sored by the Men’s Dorm Council 
will be held in the Donner Hall 
[Continued on page 7]
Neiv Liberal Rules 
For Moreivood
As the school year comes to an 
end, the Woman’s Dorm Council 
is busy preparing the rules for next 
year. The new regulations have 
not been fully approved, but they i buggies competing, the enthusiasm
year officially runs from 4:30 
p.m. Thursday to 3:00 a.m. 
Sunday. However, spirits have 
been high for the past two 
weeks covering the Queen 
campaigns and Scotch and 
Soda.
At 4:30 on Thursday the 
midway on the cut opens. 
Since Sunday the Ken Penn 
Amusement Co. has been on cam­
pus setting up their tents and mid­
way rides which will number five 
and possibly six. Groups having 
booths on the cut have been busy 
since Monday setting up their dis­
plays. Competing booths will be 
judged Thursday evening at 9:30 
p.m. by qualified persons. All en­
tering groups have been asked to 
decorate and design their booths 
on the midway around an interna­
tional theme. Judging will be 
based on appropriateness, effec­
tiveness, and originality.
Friday morning the buggies will 
be judged on their design and 
weighed in behind Machinery Hall 
at 8:00. At 10 the first heat of 
the great race will be run off on 
the familiar course starting in 
front of MMCC. With some 18
should be completed within the 
near future.
At the last meeting, the officei's 
for next year were elected. The 
new president is Diane Farrington, 
a junior in the science department. 
Clare Lawler, a junior in home 
economics, will officiate as vice 
president, and the new secretary 
is Joan LoBianco, a sophomore in 
science. These girls will begin 
their duties at the last meeting of 
this year.
Son# of the activities which are 
planned by Dorm Council for the 
remainder of the year are a din­
ner for the floor chairmen, and 
breakfast in bed for the senior 
girls on a Saturday morning late 
in May. This latter function has 
become a tradition at Morewood 
Gardens.
is higher than ever. All are out 
to beat the record time of 2:28.1 
set last year. The first three by 
time will enter the finals on Sat­
urday.
Crowning and Call Day on Hill
Friday afternoon at 1:00 p.m. 
the queen will be crowned. At 
that time Dr. Warner will open 
a sealed envelope which will dis­
close which one of the five girls 
elected yesterday is the 1955 
Spring Carnival Queen. The Kiltie 
Band and the Cameron Choir will 
present various musical selections. 
The program also includes calls 
of pledges by honoraries and the 
presentation of various awards. 
The entire program will again be 
held on Flagstaff Hill unless—per­
ish the thought—it should rain. In 
[Continued on page 12]
Spring Carnival Program
Thursday, May 5, 1955
4:30 p.m.—Carnival Internationale Midway opens 
8:00 p.m.—Final S ’n S performance—Gym 
9:30 p.m.—Booth Judging
Friday, May 6, 1955
8:00 a.m.—Buggy Design Judging—behind Machinery Hall 
10:00 a.m.—Sweepstakes Preliminaries—MMCC 
12:00 noon—Carnival Internationale Midway Opens 
1:00 p.m.—Coronation and Call Day—Flagstaff Hill 
2:00 p.m.—Sorority Relays—Fine Arts Lawn 
3:00 p.m.—Faculty Egg Throw—Fine Arts Lawn 
9:00 p.m.—Street Dance—Walt Harper—front of Engineering
Saturday, May 7, 1955
10:00 a.m.—Sweepstakes Finals—MMCC 
12:00 noon—Carnival Internationale Midway opens 
1:00 p.m.—Drama Department Cricket Match—Fine Arts Lav. 
2:00 p.m.—Plank Jousting—Carnegie Union 
9:00 p.m.—Coronation Ball—Art Mooney 
11:00 p.m.—Intermission—Awards and Prizes
VOL. 48—No. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., MAY 3, 1955

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 3, 1955
Praise Due Mortar Board,
ODK For Carnival Work
Three cheers for Mortar Board and GDK for the great job they 
did in organizing Spring Carnival! They really deserve a tremen­
dous vote of thanks from all the Students at Tech. * Without these 
senior honoraries, Spring Carnival would be nothing more than 
two words on the social calendar.^-----------------------------------------------------
Their mass organization and 
planning begins ’ right after 
Thanksgiving when they meet for 
the selection of chairman of the 
committee. This year's Spring 
Carnival Chairman is Phil Jeske 
and Mortar Board’s chairman is 
Virginia Shultz. The organization 
meeting is shortly followed by a 
co-ordination meeting where all 
committee heads are reported and 
representatives are received from 
other honoraries. Then the work 
begins!
First, their qualities of originali­
ty and ingenuity are applied in 
devising a general theme, which 
will lend itself to booth designing, 
queen campaigning, etc. This 
year’s theme is “Frolic Interna­
tionale,” which will be advertised 
by clever gimmicks found on the 
cut.
The Sweepstakes are planned, 
and along with this a conference 
with city officials must be ar­
ranged to check the buggy routes.
The Midway must be made ready, 
the booths and amusements order­
ed, and the Pinkerton Detective 
Agency hired.
For Friday night, a street dance 
is planned and for Saturday night, 
a large formal in the gym. Decora­
tions, orchestras and clean-up 
committees must be arranged.
Much Equipment Must Be 
Procured
New rules must be issued every 
year for sorority competitions, the 
faculty egg throwing contest, plank 
jousting, and the cricket match.
Public address systems must be 
hooked up, electrical power for 
the Midway must be provided and 
the necessary equipment for Call 
Day must be ordered.
Trophies for all events must be 
obtained, so it is necessary to col­
lect entry fees. Judges must be 
procured for all events. In addi­
tion to this, Mortar Board and 
ODK care for all the other innu­
merable items such as tickets, pro­
grams, drawings, etc.
They also have to be up and 
on the “Cut” at 5:15 Sunday morn­
ing to see if every thing is in good 
condition. And what gratitude do 
they get for all this? Free tickets 
to the dances. However, this does 
not end it all, for shortly after Car­
nival is over, we find the old mem­
bers of both organizations sitting 
down to a meeting with all the 
new members. What are they do­
ing—planning for next year’s 
Spring Carnival, of course!
Regular Weekly 
Services Held In 
Emmaus Chapel
“All students welcome.” This is 
the invitation on the sign in front 
of Tech’s Canterbury House on 
Margaret Morrison Street. The 
Emmaus Chapel is open at all 
times to all students. In order to 
encourage religious participation, 
the Student Christian Federation is 
sponsoring weekly devotional serv­
ices in the Chapel.
The services are scheduled for 
12:30 on Thursday until the end 
of school, excluding Carnival and 
finals weeks. Following each serv­
ice, a light lunch is served. All 
Christian students are urged to 
attend, regardless of denomination. 
Each week, the services are direct­
ed by a different denominational 
group on campus.
Emmaus Chapel was built by 
Canterbury students in compara­
tively recent years. As it is the 
only chapel on our campus, it is 
open to all students and is used 
by various groups from time to 
time. One of its interesting fea­
tures is Virgil Contini’s seven Sta­
tions of the Cross. Students are 
invited not only to attend weekly 
services, but also to become ac­
quainted with our only chapel by 
visiting it at any time.
Architecture Has 
Many Activities In 
Successful Year
An over-all look at the activi­
ties within the architecture depart­
ment for the. 1954-55 school term 
revealed a varied agenda.
Speakers will known in the ar­
chitectural field, films concerning 
architecture and art, and other so­
cial functions such as parties and 
picnics were included in the A.I.A. 
program. Bob Smith and D. Win­
field Scott,, program chairmen, 
Herb Buckwald, film program 
chairman, and Mike Cherigas, so­
cial chairman, arranged the social 
calendar.
Those who spoke before the 
A.I.A. group included Eliot Noyes, 
who discussed concrete experimen­
tal houses. Goram Hanson review­
ed background and contemporary 
Danish architecture, and Paul 
Schweiker delved into the details 
of the philosophy of architecture. 
On May 20, Richard Newton, Cali­
fornia architect, writer, and lec­
turer will speak before the A.I.A. 
This program is open for the stu­
dent body.
A guest at the annual A.I.A. 
banquet, held at Park Schenley, 
was Henry Russell Hitchcock. His 
topic was Latin American contem­
porary architecture. The film pro­
gram consisted of several short 
films ranging from Henri Matisse’s 
“Life Work” and to Ayn Rands 
“The Fountainhead.”
An A.I.A. picnic is the last 
scheduled social affair in the ar­
chitecture department. Informa­
tion concerning it has not been re­
leased as yet.
A. C. Monteith
To Be Honored
Teknon Elects 
New Officers
Carnegie Tech’s non-sectarian 
religious discussion group, Teknon, 
held its last meeting of the year 
last Wednesday at Shadyside Pres­
byterian Church. The main order 
of business at the dinner meeting 
was election of officers for next 
year. Tom Harrison, a sophomore 
electrical engineer, was elected 
president, succeeding George Mi- 
ly. Tom has served as program 
chairman this year, and is a par­
ticipant in several other activities, 
including the YMCA, of which he 
is the new vice-president. Other 
officers elected include: vice-presi­
dent, Dot Schmidt; secretary-treas- 
urer, Sue Hayes; and program 
chairman, Bob Russell.
Teknon, which has existed for 
over 40 years, had a very success­
ful year, with both the discussions 
and the dinners being better than 
ever. No meetings have been 
scheduled for May due to compe­
tition from Spring Carnival, spring 
weather, and spring exams. How­
ever, a picnic has been planned 
for Sunday, May 15, at a nearby 
park. Those wishing to attend will 
meet in front of AH at 1:30 p.m.
Eta Kappa Nu 
To Initiate 
A. C. Monteith
Mr. A. C. Monteith, vice-presi- 
dent of the Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation and president of the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers, will highlight the an­
nual Spring Banquet of Eta Kappa 
Nu, the American Institute of 
Electrical Engineers, and the In­
stitute of Radio Engineers. Mr. 
Monteith is also to be initiated 
into the Carnegie Tech chapter of 
Eta Kappa Nu.
The banquet and initiation will 
take place on Thursday, May 12, 
with the banquet starting at 6:30 
p.m. in the Carnegie Union. Mr. 
Monteith will address the ban­
quet on “Professional Develop­
ment.” The program also includes 
the presentation of new members 
to Eta Kappa Nu, an award to the 
outstanding student member of 
AIEE, and introduction of the 
AIEE-IRE officers for the coming 
year.
Many industrial firms have do­
nated favors that range from me­
chanical pencils to locks. The ban­
quet is open to any electrical en­
gineering student and tickets are 
$2.25. They can be secured from 
any member of Eta Kappa Nu.
Mr. Monteith joined the West­
inghouse Electric Corporation in 
1923 on the student course. By 
1938 he was manager of central 
station engineering, in 1941 was 
manager of industry engineering 
departments, and in 1946 was 
headquarters engineering repart- 
ment manager and director of 
education.
He was made vice-president in 
1948. He has been an active par­
ticipant in many national and in­
ternational technical societies and 
is a registered professional engi­
neer in Pennsylvania.
All interested persons are cor­
dially invited to hear Mr. Mon­
teith speak.
On CampuswithAfocSfralman
(Author of *•Barefoot Boy with Cheek," etc.)
No Parking
The 1955 Spring Carnival 
Committee requests that no 
cars be parked on Frew, 
Tech, or Margaret Morrison 
Streets until after 3 p.m. on 
Friday, May 5 and 12 noon 
on Saturday, May 6. This area 
includes the sites for the bug­
gy race and for the Friday af­
ternoon competitions.
Included in this restricted 
parking area will be the hill 
in front of the gym, the street 
back of Skibo extending by 
Administration Hall, and the 
faculty parking area extend­
ing from Administration Hall 
to Web Hall.
YMCA To Hold 
Banquet May 10 
At Carnegie Union
The Carnegie Tech YMCA will 
round out its year’s activity with 
a banquet at the Carnegie Union 
on Tuesday, May 10, at 5:30 p.m. 
The main speaker will be Mr. 
Luther Harshburger, Chaplain of 
Pennsylvania State University and 
a member of the National Student 
Committee of the YMCA.
At this time the officers for next 
year will be installed. The elec­
tions took place at the Branch 
Council meeting of April 23, and 
the following were elected: presi­
dent—Clarence Schmidt, first vice 
president—Tom Harrison, second 
vice president—Chris C6ok, sec­
retary—Bob Marik, and treasurer 
—Don Tellalian.
All Y members and anyone else 
who would be interested in attend­
ing this function are urged to get 
their tickets now from Mr. Sam 
Gibson at the Carnegie Union.
THE GIFT HORSE
Many of our friends will soon be graduating. What kind of 
gifts should we give them?
Here is no simple question. It is never simple to find gifts for 
people who have everything, and college students, as everyone 
knows, are the most richly endowed of mortals. They’ve got 
beauty and truth. They’ve got rhythm. They’ve got stout hearts, 
willing hands, and a clear vision that dispels the miasmas of the 
future as the morning sun sears away the last wisps of a cool 
night’s fog. They’ve got heaps and heaps of money, as who would 
not who has been receiving such a huge allowance over four 
years of schooling?
What can we give them that they don’t already have?
One infallible gift for the person who has everything is, of 
course, a stethoscope. New models, featuring sequined earpieces 
and power steering, are now on display at your local surgical 
supply house. Accompanying each stethoscope is a gift card with 
this lovely poem:
When you hear your heart beat,
When you hear it pound,
Remember me, your buddy,
William Henry Round.
If, by some odd chance, your name does not happen to be 
William Henry Round (you’re laughing, but it’s possible), here 
is another dandy suggestion for the person who has everything 
— a gift certificate from the American Bar Association.
These certificates, good at your local lawyer’s, come in three 
convenient sizes: small, medium, and large. The small certificate 
covers title searches and writs of estoppel. The medium size 
covers torts, claim jumping, and violations of the Smoot-Hawley 
Act. The large one covers kidnapping, murder, and barratry.
If, by some odd chance, you don’t know what barratry is 
(you’re laughing, but it’s possible), it is arson at sea. This inter­
esting crime is called after Cosmo “Bubbles” Barrat, a captain 
in the British navy during the last century, who was addicted to 
burning his ships. One man o’ war after another fell victim to 
his incendiary bent. The Admiralty kept getting crosser and 
crosser, but every time they called/ in Captain Barrat for a 
scolding, he would roll his big blue eyes and tug his forelock and 
promise faithfully never to do it again. Oh, butter wouldn’t 
melt in his mouth, that one!
So they would give him another ship, and he would soon reduce 
it to a scattering of charred spars. He burned more than 120,000 
ships before he was finally discharged as “doubtful officer 
material.”
After his separation from the navy, he moved to Vienna where 
he changed his name to Freud and invented Scrabble.
But I digress. I was listing gifts for the person who has every­
thing, and here is another one. This gift, in fact, is not only for 
persons who have everything, it is also for persons who have 
nothing, for persons who have next to nothing, for persons who 
have next to everything, and for persons in between. I refer, 
of course, to Philip Morris cigarettes. Here is the cigarette 
for everybody—for everybody, that is, who likes a mild relaxing 
smoke of fine vintage tobacco in a handsome brown package 
that snaps open with the greatest of ease. For those, if such 
there be, who like dull, nondescript tobacco in a package that 
requires a burglar’s kit to open, Philip Morris is definitely the 
wrong gift.
Among the newer gifts that warrant your attention is a revolu­
tionary development in the enjoyment of recorded music. This 
is the Low-Fi Phonograph. The Low-Fi, product of years of 
patient research, has so little fidelity to the record you put on 
it that if, for example, you put Stardust on the turntable, 
Melancholy Baby will come out. This is an especially welcome 
gift for people who hate Stardust.
Finally there is Sigafoos Shaving Cream, a brand new kind 
of cream that makes whiskers grow in instead of out. You just 
bite them off in the morning.
©Max Shulman, 1955
To Max’s suggestion to give PHILIP MORRIS for graduation, the 
makers of PHILIP MORRIS, who bring you this column, add a 
hearty amen.
Religious Activities
Tuesday, May 3
Westminster Foundation: Dinner meeting at the Bellefield Pres­
byterian Church at 5:30 to elect officers for next year.
Tech Christian Fellowship: Bible study each Tuesday and Thurs­
day at 12:30 in AH 123F. The topic now is First Peter.
Wednesday, May 4
Wesley Fellowship: Meeting at the First Methodist Church, cor­
ner of Centre and Aiken, at 7:00 p.m.. The speaker will be Rev. 
George Crokso, who will continue the series “What is Truth?” from 
the minister’s point of view. Pians are being made for a May 21 
picnic at Willow Grove, South Park.
Monday, May 9
Westminster Foundation Seminar: 1:30 p.m. in AH 132F. Walter 
Seigfrxed will lead the seventh in a series of eight discussions on “The 
Unfolding Drama of the Bible.”
Tuesday, May 10
YMCA: Banquet and installation of officers at the Carnegie Union 
at 5:30 p.m. Speaker will be Mr. Luther Harshburger, Chaplain of 
Pennsylvania State University.
Westminster Foundation: Dinner meeting at the Bellefield Pres­
byterian Church at 5:30 p.m. The speaker will be Dr. Shoemaker.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 3, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
Queen 
Campaign
Shots
Southern Star Barbecue
5185 BROWNSVILLE ROAD 
Six Miles From Liberty Tubes
2)ine and rJ^unce
Regis King's Orchestra Friday and Saturday
Telephone; OLYMPIA 5-9963
LIGHT WEIGHTTUXEDOS
POWDER BLUE JACKETS
AND
WHITE DINNER JACKETS
Complete Rental Service For Your 
Spring Carnival Dance
STUDENT DISCOUNT
East Liberty Dress Suit Rental
5966 Baum Boulevard
iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
By far the greatest attraction 
that hit the campus this past week 
was the sororities’ campaign skits 
plugging their Spring Carnival 
Queen candidates: On Tuesday 
and Wednesday at noon they per­
formed in Skibo before crowds of 
such proportions that even stand­
ing room was at a premium. In 
the evenings, they entertained at 
fraternity houses and at the men’s 
dorms, where accumulations of 
potential voters up to 250 and 
more in number with interest.
At the top left are the two cow­
girl Chi O candidates, Diane 
Bobinski and Bookee McGinley, 
taking a bow. Next are the snow 
belles of Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
featuring Carol Peterson and Barb 
Hall. Shown at the middle left are 
the Theta candidates, Sally Mair 
and Norma Hassel, seated in their 
Egyptian sedan chairs. At the 
center right, the Sig Kaps are 
uncovering their buried treasure, 
¦ Marilyn Humphreys.
On the bottom left we see the 
AEPhi’s with their hopeful, Sarah 
Hailperin. Next are the two DG 
entries, Doriene D e e t e r and 
Jimmy Fam. The bottom right 
picture shows the two Tri Delts, 
Nancy Davis and Marilyn Mitchell, 
entertaining the Skibo crowd.
photos by Saling
Tech String Orchestra will begin 
the program with “Concerto Gros­
so in C Minor” by Arcangelo Co­
relli. Donald Mushalko and Ray­
mond Ponzo will play violin solos, 
Louisa Hazen will solo on the cel­
lo and Edmund Ladouceur will 
play the piano continuo.
“Adagio for String Orchestra”
by Samuel Barber, “Ballade, Vari­
ations on a Flemish Folksong,” by 
Arthur de Greef and “Serenade 
for String Orchestra” by Erman- 
no Wolf Ferrari will be included.
Tickets, may be obtained at the 
Music Office. The concert takes 
place at 8:30 p.m. in the College 
of Fine Arts Exhibition Hall.
Social Chairmen
Please return forms listing 
social events to be placed on 
the social calendar to Diane 
Farrington, 6B2, Morewood 
Gardens, by May 6, 1955.
Tartan Poll
This year the TARTAN staff 
decided to look into a crystal ball 
and predict the winner of the 
Carnival Queen elections and the 
four members of the court. In 
order to assure some accuracy of 
predictions we sampled opinions 
of about 20 students in all depart­
ments at Tech.
In the final anaylsis we feel the 
queen will be Diane Bobinski, 
Chi Omega. The Chi O campaign 
featured a cowgirl theme, which 
was one of the best that any so­
rority has put on for several years. 
It also seems certain that Barb 
Hall, Kappa Kappa Gamma, will 
run a close second. In fact, the 
first two positions could be easily 
reversed depending on how large 
of Fine Arts vote is.
For the other three members of 
the court the selection becomes 
much harder. The opinions 
sampled indicated that Bookee 
McGinley, the other candidate of 
Chi Omega, will make the court.
Results also showed that Jimmy 
Fam of Delta Gamma would make 
the court.
The last court position could go 
to any one of several of the candi­
dates. Carol Peterson, Doriene 
Deeter, and Norma Hassel all have 
a good chance. Our guess is that 
Carol Peterson will get the nod.
So much for the predictions. All 
we can do is sit back and cross 
our fingers hoping we have guess­
ed right.
Music Department 
To Give Concert 
On Sunday Night
A concert featuring the works 
of Corelli, Barber, de Greef, and 
Ferrari will be presented Sunday 
evening, May 8, by the String Or­
chestra at Carnegie Tech’s College 
of Fine Arts.
Under the baton of Conductor 
Gosta Andreasson, the Carnegie
555555555555555555555555555555555QQV55555555

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—-CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 3, 1955
Editorial—
This Is Fun?
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Biblcr
Is it too big? Is it worth all the effort 
it requires Is it only for the fraternities 
and sororities? Why do the instructors pile 
up the homework the week before? Why 
do the students quit doing the homework 
the week before?
As we once again approach that gay, 
festive event commonly referred to as Spring 
Carnival, once again everybody starts to ask 
these questions, and once again th« Tartan 
expresses its two cents worth. Carnival has 
probably always been criticized for being 
too large, but brother, we should have seen 
some of the Carnivals a few years ago if 
we thing this one is going to be too large.
(see page 6) Since then, the committees 
have succeeded in whittling off some of the 
professionalism by disposing of the float pa­
rade, among other things.
But although some events have been dis­
carded, it is doubtful if the time and effort 
required to produce a Carnival have de­
creased. Already the devoted buggy com­
mittees have spent long hours poring over 
their annual job, the sororities have spent 
long hours practicing their skits and enter­
taining the male populace, plank jousters 
have been jousting, buggy pushers have been pushing, egg 
throwers haven’t done anything, Scotch ’n Soda has been 
rehearsing endlessly, and the Carnival Committee has even 
been caught working on Saturday night.
The time and money formerly spent on floats were large­
ly devoted to the costume parade last year, and possibly due 
to this fact, we no longer have a costume parade. Now, 
with the midway booths to be judged, there are tremendous 
hidden possibilities for making structures which will archi­
tecturally rival the Taj Mahal in beauty or the Great Wall 
of China in magniture, or both. And as usual, the greatest 
portion of this work will be done in the 48 hours preceding 
the judging deadline.
It might be said that the independents have the op­
portunity for the fullest enjoyment of Carnival because they 
do the least in preparation for it. Those who have slaved 
unsleepingly right down to the deadline are sometimes too 
exhausted to last through the weekend. Unfortunately, not 
much can be done about this, and it seems to be human 
nature to do the most work in the last minute.
It also seems to be true that the competing groups will 
make a supreme effort to outdo each other no matter what 
the type of competition is. If Carnival were nothing but a 
peanut-pushing contest, various ingenuious means should be 
devised and hundreds of dollars would be spent in an effort 
to capture the ten dollar trophy.
To the students, it appears that some of the faculty de­
rive a fiendish pleasure from their anguished protests when 
they have so many other, more important things to do than 
study for an hour exam two days before Carnival. Never­
theless, these exams are a necessary evil and must come 
either before or after Carnival. One time is about as bad 
as the other. Spring Carnival is supposed to be a break be­
fore finals, not a professional production ’•which completely 
displaces academic interest. Most instructors are aware that 
the latter lags at this time of year, but after all, we are pay­
ing tuition primarily for the benefits derived from the class­
room.
“Think you can stand it for four days?”
OFFICES; Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9430, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination period» by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .......................................................................................................... Robert Bussell
Business Manager ....................................... ..................... ................................... Vic Shiry
News Editor .................................................... ................. ............  Marjo King
Sports Editor .............................. ....................... ............... .......... Tom Wright
Copy Editor ................................. ........................................... .......... ............. Richard Fox
T eat are» Editor ...................................................................... Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business Manager—Marty Ostroff. Advertising Manager—Bob Sort in. 
Circulation Manager—Harley Bembach. Reporters—Evelyn Alessio, Marilyn Casey, 
Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Joanne Babbitt, Arthur Marino, Barbara Jtobeson, 
Carolou Fidder, Jane Moore, Lois 'Griffin, Sally Day, Dolores ChidesTer, Kay 
Melenyzer. Sports Staff—James Lacey, Dick Swaney. Photographers—Barbara Toia, 
John Russell, Don Falk, Bill Sailing. Art Staff—Carolyn Copp, Don Carter, Robert 
Connell. Copy Staff—Ed Rogers, Jack Recker, Carol Millson. Features Staff—Jo* 
Szewc. Marshall Pheil. Typists—Anne Barnes, Mary Langdon. Copy Banners—
Ron Kohl, Jim Plugge. Circulation Staff—Alan Hodel, Ira Levine. Advertising
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publ: hers representative, 420 Madison Art., New York City. Subscriptions tl.10 
per year.
Over The 
Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Letter—
Editor, The Tartan:
Until recently, I was of the opinion that college 
students were a more or less rational, law-abiding 
group. It is indeed deplorable that on this campus 
one can not go to bed with the assurance that any 
of his property which he has not placed under 
lock and key or armed guard will not be stolen 
or mutilated before daybreak by a mob of brainless 
vandals. It is even more deplorable that a reput­
able publication like the Carnegie Tartan should 
actually praise the thoughtless actions of an un­
reasoning mob.
This letter was provoked by the “noble serv­
ice” of the hoodlums who hung the motorcycle in 
front of Skibo, but other noble services performed 
by this group or their kind may be observed about 
campus. These include the destruction of Scobell 
Hall’s lounge, setting cars up on curbs, and dam­
aging and stealing the money from vending ma­
chines.
The “doggone noisemaker” now reposing in the 
tree in front of Skibo had not been run for ap­
proximately three weeks before it was hung there. 
In other words, not since two days after I bought 
it. This is because I bought it in poor condition 
and have been repairing it since then. Unfor­
tunately, one of its defects was a noisy muffler. 
However, I never rod it late at night as was 
implied in a recent article in the Tartan and I 
rode it only long enough to secure the parts neces­
sary to repair it. As for riding at two in the af- 
terfioon, I must plead guilty. While it is unde­
niably Mr. Szewc’s or anyone else’s privilege to 
sleep at this hour, he has no right to expect oth­
ers to be quiet then.
It seems to be the opinion of a certain Tartan 
features writer that motorcycles have no right to 
park along streets. Since motorcyclists have to 
buy licenses, pay taxes, and observe traffic laws 
just as automobile drivers do, I fail to see why 
they should not have as much right to a parking 
space. The situation that Mr. Szewc referred to 
in his article is that in which four or five motor­
cycles and motorscooters are parked so that they 
occupy two automobile parking spaces. Actually, 
since each of these vehicles is legally entitled to one 
parking space, they could have been strung out 
along the curb so that they occupied four or five 
automobile parking spaces. It was an act of cour­
tesy on the part of the motorcyclists to park as 
they did, but some people are so used to not doing 
favors that when one is done for them they do not 
recognize it.
In spite of my opposition to their deed, I am 
forced -to admire the bravery of the noble motor - 
cycle-hangers. It must have taken tremendous 
courage for ten or 20 husky fellows to steal 
a bike at some wee hour of the morning. In ad­
dition to the dangers of burns (from a motor that 
hasn’t run for three weeks?), grease spots and 
toothache that Mr. Szewc mentioned, these fear­
less vigilantes also disregarded the possibility of 
being arrested as common thieves by the ever- 
alert Pittsburgh police.
Yours truly,
Jim Hasper.
The Kitchen 
Sink
Here it is-—Spring Carnival time! Oh, joy! Oh, 
rupture! We ask ourselves . . . where did Spring 
Carnival all begin? And from the dark wastelands 
of Lower Oakland Cafe Society comes the secre­
tive answer: “Under the Skibo Table.” We de­
mand: “Tell us more!”
As Q. Rastus Shlimboyant likes to tell the 
story, it all started with a spoon accidentally drop­
ped on the Skibo floor. (Or did it crawl out of the 
coffee of its own accord? Prithee, no matter this.) 
The spoon was followed down by a furtive Maggie 
Murph who hadn't yet stirred her brew, so to 
speak. There, in the shadows, she met Joseph A. 
Szewc, who was writing spring-type poetry.
He breathed a balmy, summer sigh,
As a teardrop hesitated 
At the rim of his eye.
“What ho!” cried he,
With a sheepish grin.
“Ho what!” said she,
Can out-do sin?
“Saltines and Ovaltine!” shrieked the ubiquitous 
Mr. Szewc. The girl was so overcome by this 
declamation that she managed to pass out. The 
beautiful tragedy of it all moved Joe to poetry 
again. But in order to make it more perfect 
Cinemascopic, he sang a love song. (And, mind 
you, he sang it in technicolor, with schizophrenic 
sound.) The now-famous \ song: “If I had it to 
do all over again, I’d do it all over you,” brought 
a 'hopeful flutter to her whitened eyelids. She 
spoke: “Like man, that really turns me on, like 
man! We ought to do a show, like man!”
The\n and there they formed a club. At first, 
it was called Ron Freidman. But since Ron' was 
still an architect at the time, they had to call it 
“Scotch ’n Soda.” Later that very same spring, 
they put their show on at the gym, in a telephone 
booth. From there, the group grew quickly. And 
it wasn’t long before they had to transfer opera­
tions to Doc Hall’s waiting rooYn. With public in» 
terest as it was, it comes as no surprise that other 
organizations sprung up. Oddly enough, these other 
groups were comprised of nothing but cowgirls, 
mermaids, pirate ladies, and such. Then . . . 
ZAPPO! Street dancing, a real, live carnival, and 
Pershing Rifles came along to add more jolity to 
the merry spring season. Such undiluated fun! 
Wheeee!
As it must be, there was a subtle touch of 
tragedy here. Although these people had a per- 
fectly jolly time for a weekend each spring, there 
was nothing to occupy them the-rest of the year. 
So, as another philanthropic service, Andrew Cer- 
negie created an Institute of Technology around 
these happy folk.
But there was one flaw in this otherwise per­
fect arrangement—a snag that no one seems to be 
able to work out. You see, in his haste, Andrew 
created the “R”.
With a dash—Uncle Mash 
(Well, I’ll be a Beorge Gobel.)
Editor’s Note: I think that Mister James Hasper 
has taken the little incident which I referred to in 
my column of last week a little too personally. The 
hanging of the motorcycle in the tree was done as a 
protest to that group of Individuals who do drive 
their bikes at two in the morning and the action 
was not menat to be directed against him alone, 
but rather to serve as a warning for that group 
which does make the noise at two in the morning.
Mister Hasper does not appear to realize that he 
is a member of a community. In that community he 
is associated with a certain group by virtue of the 
property he owns. A certain group of citizens of 
the communitwsin which he lives decided to protest 
the actions of the group of which he is associated. 
This is not a strange action in any community and 
I am quite sure it has happened in many com­
munities many times. I doubt very seriously if 
Mister Hasper’s property has been damaged in any 
way and has caused him nothing more than aa 
inconvenience.
Mister Hasper has also made a number of state­
ments in his letter which I a am forced to agree 
with. Certainly he fias the right to park his motor­
cycle anywhere he wants providing he does not 
break the law as the people who stole (?) his 
motorcycle did. And granted he has every right in 
the world to drive the bike at two in the afternoon. 
Those remarks which were made about the incident 
were meant in jest and certainly were not to be 
taken seriously as he has taken them.
And as for Mister Hasper’s concern over hi» 
private property I have only one other comment to 
add. If he had really been concerned, he would not 
have left his motorcycle hanging in the tree for 
nearly a week.
Joseph A Szewc

---------------------------------------------------

WllOROOT 
CREAM Oil
CONTAINS- CHlRPf - 
LANOLIN T REMOVES 
LOOSE DANDRUFF»?’I GET WILDROOT CREAM- OIL, CHARLIE?/ r
ONLY CREAM-OIL GROOMS AND CONDITIONS HAIR TM£/NATURAL WAY
Faculty Members View 
Lagging School Spirit
Why doesn’t Tech have any school spirit? Should we have 
freshman regulations? How will we enforce them? These are just 
a few of the questions under heated discussion on this campus.
There seems to be general disinterest and lack of cooperation on
the part of both the faculty and4------------------------------—__________
student body. Cwens and Scimi­
tars, whose duty it is to maintain
freshman regulations, are espe­
cially interested in knowing the 
reasons for this apathy, hoping that 
they may educate the skeptics on 
the importance of school spirit 
and good feeling among the fresh­
men and gain every one’s coopera­
tion in increasing good will and 
interest on campus.
This week the Tartan interview­
ed what they hoped was a cross- 
section of the faculty to get a 
few first hand opinions of the 
present situation.
“The recognized old style of 
school spirit is going out of style 
and being replaced by something 
else. The students’ belief in the 
scholastic benefits to do so is 
stupid,” says Miss Ruth Denhardt, 
voice and speech professor in Fine 
Arts.
Miss Clementine McKenna, home 
economics instructor, feels that if 
there are regulations they should 
be enforced by members of the 
sophomore honoraries. (None of the 
faculty interviewed wished to help 
enforce these proposed regulations. 
It is not the purpose of the Cwens 
and Scimitars to include the facul­
ty in an active campaign for school 
spirit; rather they hope merely to 
gain the passive but willing co­
operation and sympathy of the 
faculty and administration.)
Some faculty members made 
suggestions for building up school 
spirit. Dr. Hart of the English 
department thought the sopho­
more honoraries could help to 
break down some of the inter­
college barriers by promoting 
more all-school activities. Dr. John 
Fox, assistant head of the physics 
department, felt these groups could 
build unity in the freshman class 
through freshman activities plan­
ned with the freshman class offi­
cers. Miss Pollis of Margaret Mor­
rison suggested that a faculty 
member serve on such a com­
mittee.
Alumni Printers 
Return To Attend 
Annual Seminar
Some of the printing industry’s 
top management returned to Tech 
last Friday to attend the annual 
Alumni Printing Management 
Seminar. About 300 members from 
printing and related graphic arts 
industries in all states east of the 
Mississippi arrived at their alma 
mater for the two-day event.
This year’s agenda was devoted 
to five major problems: color, 
standards for the graphic arts in­
dustry, candid comments from 
New York printing buyers, sales 
compensation, and labor relations.
Color, quantity, and quality, 
were discussed by Dee Andella of 
the National Geographic Maga­
zines John H. Davis, Jr. of Judd 
and Detweiler, Inc. and George 
Beck of the Beck Engraving Com 
Pany.
Labor Relations Discussed
Arthur Gratz of Herbick and 
Held and John Sayles of the Kable 
Printing Company discussed as­
pects of labor relations in their 
industry. Standards for the graphic 
arts industry were the subject of 
Publishing Company. Problems of 
Dwight Monaco of McGraw Hill 
sales competition were discussed 
by J. L. Hallstrom of Edward Stern 
and Company. Friday’s program 
concluded with a group of New 
York consumers telling what they 
expect from the printing indus­
try.
A banquet concluded the semi­
nar Saturday night. George S. 
Dively, president of Harris • Sey- 
bold Company gave the principal 
address, “Building Creative Man­
agement.”
President of the Alumni group 
is Henry F. Bayer, who is also 
president of the John P. Smith 
Printing Company in Rochester, 
New York.
Buggy Race
Buggy race spectators are 
asked to respect ropes and 
sidewalks placed along the 
course for your protection 
and for the protection of the 
competitors.
Civens> Scimitars 
Seek To Arouse 
Student Interest
This spring a strong campaign 
has “begun for the increase of 
school spirit on Tech’s campus. 
Cwens and Scimitars, whose duty 
it is to sponsor the freshman regu­
lations and part of the orientations 
program, have each year been con­
fronted with increasing lack of 
cooperation. -This year they have 
tried to find where the weakness 
lies, in order to plan more ef­
fective regulations and to encour­
age more school spirit.
Apparently the studénts do feel 
the need for more school spirit, if
the number of complaints is any 
indication. And while the two 
honoraries are hardly encouraging 
riotous action of the students, it 
must be acknowledged that dem­
onstrations like the rally after our 
undefeated football season, and 
the gathering in front of Morewood 
Gardens following the sorority 
Spring Carnival campaigns last 
Wednesday night show a potential 
for unified action.
Honoraries Welcome Suggestions
At least the parade up from 
Forbeg Field after the football 
game is not considered riotous, 
and the students enjoy participat­
ing in a body in such affairs, and 
there is no need for them to get 
out of hand.
Mand ideas have been raised at 
Cwens and Scimitars meetings
(See Tartan, April 19, 1955) but 
since this is a problem which con­
cerns the entire campus, the hon­
oraries will be glad to receive any 
constructive suggestions from stu­
dents.
Extremely High Discounts 
and Trade In Allowances
Arranged For Carnegie Tech
Students and 
Faculty Members
On New 1955 Ford Automobiles 
and Used Cars of Every Type 
Coyitact Wally Donoghue 
103 Welch Hall — Box 337 CIT 
MU 3-0242
(-/'M PHON JO. THE CP/M/NAL HVPNOT/ST'f'J - FOSDICK.rr- 
WE'RE BOTH
THEN-c«uCk¿e' FLY SOUTH.'?'
NOT TILL YOU-rVE£rr.TWE£r/- I COMB YOUR MESSY -J FEATHERS// — SLOPPY BIRDS LIKE YOU GIVE ALL OF US A BAD NAME/.1
-DON'T BE A - c^EEp.r-CH EEP SKATE ff —GET WILDROOT 
CREAM-OIL, AMERICA'S FAVORITE* KEEPS HAIR -rWEET/'-N EAT BUT NOT GREASY//-
........—^
BUTTHATWOULD
ILLEAGLE"
MAME
BALDVÎÎ
What young people are doing at General Electric
Young scientist works on new ways to handle “hot” radioactive fuel
Whenever uranium is “burned” in an atomic 
reactor, certain valuable elements such as 
plutonium are left behind in the “ash.”
These products are highly radioactive, but 
they must be recovered because of their great 
value to the atomic energy program.
This is the job of 31-year-old H. Ward 
Alter, Supervisor of the Separations Chem­
istry Unit at the AEC’s Knolls Atomic Power 
Laboratory, which General Electric operates 
in Schenectady, N. Y.
Alter’s Work Is Vital, Important
Alter is doing his job well. He has already 
received the Coffin Award, General Electric’s 
highest honor, for developing an apparatus 
that makes possible faster, safer, and more 
efficient recovery of the valuable elements in 
the “ash.”
The work done by Alter and his group 
helps lower costs, increase efficiency and ex­
pand our knowledge of the chemical process­
ing of spent radioactive fuels.
25,000 College Graduates at General Electric
When Alter came to General Electric in 
1948, he already knew the work he wanted 
to do. Like each of the 25,000 college-gradu- 
ate employees, he was given his chance to 
grow and realize his full potential. For Gen­
eral Electric has long believed this: When 
fresh young minds are given freedom to 
make progress, everybody benefits —the 
individual, the company, and the country.
H. WARD ALTER joined G.E. in 1948 
at Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory after receiving a B.A. in 1943 and Ph.D. in Chemistry in 1948 at U. of 
California. He served with the Man­hattan Project at Oak Ridge, 1944-46.
Tuesday, May 3, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 3, 1955
History Of Spring Carnival Reviewed
Tech’s Big Weekend Has Changed 
In Many Ways Since Early 20’s
By Evelyn Alessio
Spring Carnival on the Tech campus has for many years been a tradition to which 
students and faculty look forward. While browsing through the Tartans and Thistles of 
past years, this reporter found that through the years, Carnival Weekend has changed in 
many aspects. In 1921 Techites heralded a round of social activities called “Campus Week.”
Students assembled at the*------------------------------------------------------------------
Oakland Carnegie Music Hall 
Thursday afternoon and from 
there launched their three- 
day revelry with a parade up 
Forbes Street and onto the! 
campus. Common to the 
present Carnival celebration 
where the pushmobile race, j 
the queen coronation, and call 
day.
Included in the festivities was a 
circus on the athletic field, band j 
concerts, and baseball games’ 
scheduled between the faculty and ! 
senior class, CIT and Geneva Col­
lege, and the alumni and the var£ 
city squad. “Stunts” (the nature 
of which was unrevealed) were 
performed on the athletic field on 
Friday morning and afternoon.
An interscholastic smoker at the 
Union with entertainment by 
MMCC girls brought the weekend 
to a close on Saturday night.
1948
Spring Carnival has changed not 
only since the days of the roar­
ing Twenties but also within the 
past seve* years. Back in 1948 
canoe-tilting at Panther Hollow 
Lake was a highlight of the Car­
nival weekend. That year crowds 
witnessed an exciting and ex­
tremely muddy upset of the 
DU’s by the Delts. Until just two 
years ago Varsity Varieties, now 
a part of the Homecoming festiv­
ities, was presented at Spring 
Carnival in the Fine Arts Little 
Theatre. In ’48 the sorority skits 
ran gamut from melodramas to 
comedy routines with the AEPhi’s 
winning the Varieties trophy.
1949
In 1949 was the year of the first 
street dance since the war. Benny 
Benack and his orchestra played 
for the “Starlight Hop.” The or­
chestra was made up exclusively 
of Tech students including its vo-
7950 Queen Campaign
In this year, ther^Thetas staged a real hot campaign for Carnival 
Queen atop fire trucks. Incidentally, all three candidates made the 
court and Linda Cowan, on the left, was Queen.
Carnival. The 1950 program was 
woven around events of the past 
fifty years and the committee was 
able to decorate the men’s gym 
with replicas of many of the in­
ventions of the first decades of the 
century. Floats featured such 
things as the Lindbergh flight, 
sports in the ’20's, the World War, 
the Model T, and railroads. Car­
nival committee also aranged to 
show 6ilent “quickies” in Thistle 
Hall during the formal for which 
Milton Starr and Walt Harper 
were signed.
The Gay Nineties were the focal 
point of Varsity Varieties that year 
with the Delta Gammas taking 
first place with their memorable 
“Grandmother’s Day.” Alumni will 
especially remember the queen 
campaign of 1950. The T h e t a s calist, Gloria Bergman, who was j came Up with a “flame campaign
bringing Rege Cordic, Bill Heinz 
of KDKA, and fire engines to the 
I Tech campus, and the Kappas in­
stigated an Indian uprising which 
| started in an already disrupted 
j Skibo and never stopped until 
I every fraternity found one of its 
j members captured and tied to 
i some convenient tree.
A change was made in the 
' sweepstakes design and race rules 
I because it was felt that in pre- 
f vious years the buggies which 
j drew the outside position in the 
; three buggy heats were at a dis- 
i advantage. Therefore, the number 
I of buggies in each of the prelim- 
i inary heats was reduced to two.
“Curb ‘N’ Lantern” was the 
! name of the street dance while on
crowned Carnival Queen that year,
The Saturday night formal fea­
tured Woody Herman. 1949 was 
the year, too, that the Delts set a 
new course time record of 2:55— 
five seconds off the record of pre­
vious years.
The theme of Carnival was “cir­
cus” so elephants, lions, caliopes, 
rages, circus tents, and carousels 
lined the midway and the Sigma 
Nu’s took the first place trophy 
for their “Circus” float. That year 
Scotch ‘n’ Soda’s annual produc­
tion was titled “Molecule Man” so 
that when the Thetas did a take 
off on “M.M.” they also walked 
off with the first place Varsity 
Varieties trophy.
1950
Fifty years of progress provided 
the theme for the mid-cenutry | the popular midway the DU Eight
i an an uue.s ¿cor 
i he 1953 Carnival featured a duel between 
and Editor Drew. Custard pies served as weapons, 
declared a draw.
Editor Durstine 
The match was
Ball and Konk-a-Kappa Sig were 
favorite attractions. The growth 
of beards by the DU’s this year 
may have been foreshadowed by 
the contest held in 1950 for the 
longest beard.
1951
In 1951 the Carnegie Natrat 
came out with headlines that read 
“Spring Carnival will run six 
weeks—thirty name bands sched­
uled to play; administration can­
cels all exams.” Despite the false 
illusions, ’51 Spring Carnival prov­
ed one of the best of all times. 
Based on the Mardi Gras theme set 
up by the committee of ODK’s and 
Mortar Board girls, the DU’s win­
ning float, entitled the “Spirits of 
Bacchus” depicted a rotund re­
clining figure of Bachus surround­
ed by attendants. The AEPhi’s 
took first place with their musical 
parody on Freudian psychoanalists 
diagnosing the amatory troubles 
of a group of college girls.
Queen campaign that year was 
one of the most extravagant ever. 
One group paraded its girls onto 
the campus in convertibles with a 
police escort on ground and an air 
escort composed of Army Air 
Force planes. A twenty-foot pleas­
ure cruiser on the back of a trailer 
truck brought in another sorority’s 
candidates while a taxi parade in­
troduced another bevy of beauties.
DG and ATO “Frantic Antics”
“Old grads” were featured Fri­
day night in a stage show in the 
gym with Rege Cordic, David 
Crantz, forjner star and author of 
Scotch ’n Soda, Rosemary, 
Gloria Bergman, and the Eric 
Stamford Trio. There were new 
booths such as Bingo Ball and the 
Sigma Nu’s O’Leary’s Bar. Enter­
tainment seekers were treated to 
a show never before seen at 
Carnival time, “Frantic Antics”— 
presented by the Delta Gammas 
and the ATO’s. Gallant “knights” 
on tricycles (the ATO’s naturally) 
jousted midst a deluge of tomatoes 
and the girls displayed their 
talents in a chorus line and a 
series of playlets.
1952
1952 saw the reign of the first 
independent queen (and a lovely 
one she was)—Mutzie Friedland- 
er, a senior in the drama depart­
ment and a candidate of the 
women’s dorm who literally “went 
it alone” in her campaign. That 
was the year, too, that the Delts 
took the sweepstakes for the fifth 
consecutive year — a feat never 
before accomplished by any other 
group on the Tech campus. Their 
134*4 pound buggy covered the 
sweepstakes course in 2:36.
Design trophy went to the
Kappa Sigs, wnile the Delts won 
the float competition with their 
presentation based on the story of 
the Merchant and the Genie. The 
ATO’s will be remembered for 
theirs which introduced television 
and radar to the ancient legend of 
King Arthur’s Court. The AEPhi’s 
copped first place in Varsity 
Varieties for the second consecu­
tive year with their “Submission 
to Moscow.” Sonia Lefsky Rus­
sianized the nursery rhymes and 
her pupils recited and sang them. 
Little Jack Horner became Jake 
Varner and Jack Be Nimble got 
out of Russia.
1953
1953 was tae year of the famed 
Durstine-Drew duel. The first 
blow having been struck by the 
editor of the Scot, the Tartan came 
out in its very next issue with a 
bold “J’Accepte”—and the duel 
was on! Advancing astride their 
the Fine Arts lawn, 
Durstine and Drew fought their 
duel with custard pies in the midst 
a roaring crowd. Then, too, 
there was the drama students’ 
cricket match which ended with 
the kidnapping of one of the stu­
dents. <
The ATO’s copped double Car­
nival interfraternity honors by 
placing first in the pushmobile 
race and the float parade. That 
year’s sweepstakes saw the break­
ing of old records and the 
lishment of a new record run of 
2:30.55. For the first time sorori­
ties entered into relay competi­
tion. ODK dug a moat on the lawn 
between MMCC and the former 
Carnegie Inn (now the site 
Donner Hall)—and filled it with 
water! Through this mud puddle 
the victorious K^appas pulled the 
Delta Gammas, their final oppon­
ents.
1954
And finally there was last year’s 
memorable “From Here To Infin­
ity.” Coming a long way from 
“Campus Week” of 1921, a cos­
tume parade was initiated into the 
1954 Carnival program to take the 
place of the annual float parade. 
PiKA’s revolving planet was the 
winner among the fraternities and
the Kappa’s futuristic rebirth of 
historical personages was first 
among sororities. In fraternity 
competition also, the Phi Kaps 
out-balanced all others in the 
plank-jousting contest. As for the 
PiKA’s new laminated wood bug- 
Sweepstakes, the ATO’s set an­
other new record at 2:28.1. The 
gy merited them the first place 
design trophy.
For the first time Flagstaff Hill 
was selected as the site for Call 
Day and the coronation of the 
queen. In previous years the Syl­
van Theatre had been used.
Egg Throw
Any account of ’54 Carnival 
would be incomplete without some 
mention of the Faculty Egg Throw 
which featured 13 faculty 
teams. A highlight of the contest 
was the entrance of Dean David in 
a raincoat. Forced by the jeering 
crowd to remove it, he displayed 
a shocking polka-dot suit! The 
psychology department with its 
entrants, Gregg and Daily, won 
the competition with physical edu­
cation and chemistry departments 
close behind.
Sorority Roller Relays
Two nervous contestants in last 
year’s event switching their egg 
from one spoon to another.
QuenCamp
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
Better tennis 
for you starts
right here ...
The confidence you need to
keep up your game is built right 
into this fine Spalding racket.
The Spalding kro-bat® de­
livers all the “feel” for better con­
trol and accuracy. It’s built to take 
power serves and smashes, and 
give you top performance.
Buy the KRO-BAT in your own 
weight and grip size. Just one set 
will tell you ... this is your year for 
better tennis.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 3, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre 7
Billy Fish and the Four Flats (Ed Styron withChuck Matthews shows the singing and dancing
CUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton
Dancing Friday and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and Orchestra
John Marry, Jerry Bracken, LeRoy Miller, and chorus that the short-cut through Heaven is by 
Chuck Kovacs) do a hilarious take off called way of Hell in a rousing revival, “Get Set.” Bud 
“Zonk ’ on all the pathetic little groups of cat Donahue, Irene Baird, Bill Grey, and Carolou Fid- 
singers. dcr have just decided the right way to go.
6Adults Only’Premier 
Is GenerallyEnjoya hie
Monday night the curtain went up on Adults Only, this year’s.
Spring Carnival musical fare. The show as a whole is enjoyable and 
only occasionally sinks to that level of entertainment labeled by the 
burlesque palaces as “For Adults Only.” The plot concerns the sit­
uation that arises when a sweet* 
young Southern girl, the Biddle
Baby Bundle, becomes supervis­
ing editor of “Bon Vivant,” an ex­
tremely blase publication special­
izing in scandals. Judy Dunkle 
plays the part of Linda Lou 
Beachays to perfection, being in 
turn sickeningly sweet and genu­
inely appealing.
Donna Krochmal and Chuck 
Walsh perform well in their roles 
of the cynical wordly staff of “Bon 
Vivant.” And Bob Fields as Cyril, 
a sensitive young but unproduc­
tive artistic soul, is perfect, espe­
cially in the dream sequence in 
the first act. John Kestner and 
Mousie Bruno are hilarious in their 
roles. But in places the humor 
lacks subtlety and might even be 
called crude.
High spot in the show is the 
"Zonk” number done by Billy 
Fish and His Four Flats, parodying 
the Sh-Boom type of popular song. 
Other high points are the lighting 
and scenery in the Dance Hall 
scene, the singing and dancing in 
the street dance, and the dream se­
quence from all angles. Especially 
to be congratulated are the tech­
nical crews and Mike Pollock and 
her costume crew. All in all 
“Adults Only” is a show well 
worth seeing, although you may or
may not like the unexpected re­
solving tof the situation in the 
end.
Secretarial Club 
Announces Electior 
Of New Officers
The results of the recent Secre­
tarial Club elections as announced 
by President Nancy Fee are as 
follows: president—Jean MacDou- 
gal; vice-president—Eileen Cerut- 
ti; secretary—Nancy Cochrane; 
ling officers are? vice-president— 
Joan Schell; secretary—Delores 
treasurer—Joan Schell. The retir- 
Prus; treasurer—Anne Barnes.
Open House—
[Continued from page 1j
lounge for men dorm residents and 
their dates.
During the dance a large pic­
ture of the donor, Mr. Donner, will 
be placed in the lounge for perm- 
nent display. Donner, who has es­
tablished steel mills in the Donora 
aiea, was the principal donor oi 
the more than $900,000 cost of the 
new dorm.
Donner Hall has a capacity of 
243 residents. A modern lounge, 
recreation room, laundry room, 
and excellent private rooms are 
available to them at a cost of $190 
per year for a double room and 
$240 per year for a single. The 
building, designed by Mitchell and 
Richie (both Tech graduates) is 
unique in its all glass and alumi­
num exterior. It has been fea­
tured in many national publica­
tions and* is considered a pace set­
ter for college dormitories. The 
basement level has been scheduled 
to be developed into a field house 
for Carnegie's athletic teams. The 
residents of Donner Hall, remem­
bering the fine time they enjoyed 
at Morewood’s open house, extend 
a special invitation to Carnegie’s 
coeds to attend the affair.
Aida
The Squirrel Hill Theatre 
will feature Verdi’s “Aida” in 
Techincolor, showing continu­
ously from student discount 
tickets 2 p.m. starting Friday, 
May 6. For matinee and 
evening performances are 
available in Dr. Miner’s office 
in Administration Hall, and 
the music and drama depart­
ment’s office in the Fine Arts 
Building.
Cliff Litherland asks:
Would I have 
varied assignments 
at Du Pont-or 
would I specialize 
technically?
Civil Engineers 
Receive Annual 
ASCE Award
The American Society of Civil 
Engineers has awarded the Stu­
dent Chapter at Carnegie Tech a 
certificate of commendation for 
“excellence in effective and meri­
torious conduct of their affairs.”
This year’s award is the 13th 
the Carnegie Tech student chapter 
has received, more than any of 
the other 134 student chapters in 
the United States, except one 
which is in a military institute 
where participation in the society 
is compulsory.
John E. Green, a senior in civil 
engineering from Brechsville, Ohio 
is president of the Carnegie Tech 
chapter.
Thistle—
[Continued from page 1] 
and Molly Rudy as advertising 
manager.
At the close of the banquet this 
year’s editor, Mary Jane Opris, 
was presented with a gold bracelet 
by her staff in appreciation for tfle 
work she put in as editor.
CLIFFORD LITHERLAND received a B.A. degree from Rice In­
stitute last year, and is now working for a B.S. in Chemical 
Engineering. He is Business Manager of "The Rice Engineer 
and Vice-President of the fifth-year class at Rice. By asking 
questions of prospective employers, Cliff is trying to get informa­
tion that will help him make the best use of his training in the 
years ahead.
Arthur Mendolia answers:
Well, Cliff, I’d* say the answer to that question depends 
largely on your own preferences. In a company the size of 
Du Pont there are opportunities for growth along either line.
In my own case, I’ve followed the route of diversification 
—and I think you’ll find that’s the general procedure when 
a fellow is interested in administrative work.
For example, after graduation I started work in the re­
search lab at Du Pont’s Niagara Falls plant. That was fol­
lowed by two years of process improvement work, and a 
stretch as assistant supervisor over one of the plant areas. 
Next, I spent a few years in liaison on the design and con­
struction of our first full-scale plant for making nylon inter­
mediates from furfural. Then, I had assignments on "plant 
start up,” and production supervision before I was given my 
present post. I was made Assistant Director of Research for 
Du Pont’s Electrochemicals Department last August.
You see, variety of assignments means contact with new 
men and with constantly changing problems. That keeps 
interest alive. It leads to growth, too, because it provides a 
broad base of experience for future responsibilities.
On the other hand, some fellows prefer to become special­
ists in a particular field—and Du Pont has many oppor­
tunities for that type of professional growth, too. In our 
research, development and design groups we have experts 
on distillation, mass transfer, thermodynamics—and most 
anything else you’d care to mention in the field of engineer­
ing. These men are respected throughout the whole company 
for their technical knowledge.
Whichever route you choose, Cliff—broad or specialized — 
you’ll find that a job well done leads to satisfaction and ad­
vancement at Du Pont.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about working with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Chemical 
Engineers at Du Pont," a booklet that tells you about pioneering work being done in chemical engineering—in research, process development, production and sales. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
—cfliJPORI>—^
RtS.u.S.PAT.OfK
BETTER THINGS FOR BEnER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY 
WATCH "CAVALCADE OF AMERICA”ON TELEVISION
ARTHUR I. MENDOLIA was graduated from Case 
Institute in June 1941 and started work with 
the Du Pont Company that same month. In 
addition to handling challenging assignments at 
work, he also enjoys some interesting hobbies. 
Although he makes no claims personally, he’s 
classed as a minor authority on golf and hi-fi 
music. Mr. Mendolia is Assistant Director of 
Research for Du Pont’s Electrochemicals Dept.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 3, 1955
Thinclads Take 31st Straight Meet
Tech Takes 13 Of 15Events 
Boys Aided By Fast Track
It was the same old story Saturday as the powerful thinclads of Coach Bob Carman brought 
number 31 into camp. It was a hot, windy day on a fast track that saw the Tartans capture 13 of 15 
events. It was an easy win for the Skibos with all performers equalling or surpassing their best ef­
forts to date.
Big man for Tech was J o h n#
Muller, the modest record collector j 
from Princeton, New Jersey. Hav­
ing already set the local S k i b o 
Bowl record, “Rock” captured the 
Grove City track marks in the 
quarter mile and 220 low hurdles. 
John loped through a slow 220 
with his long stride and then 
blasted out the final eighth of a 
mile to become the first Tartan to 
go below the 50 second barrier in 
many years and nail the record at 
Grove City to 49.9 Close behind 
John as the outstanding performer 
was Mai Gillies, perpetual win­
ner of the mile and half mile. Mai 
came within 6 tenths of a second 
of rasing the mile record at Grove 
City held by our own Bob Carmen. 
Gillies was never pressed in 
either specialty which probably 
kept him from establishing the 
mile mar' .
Freshman John Mihm gave a 
fine account of himself by finish­
ing behind Muller in his record 
breaking hurdle race, and leading 
the pack in the broad jump. Frank 
Smith, freshman streak from 
Georgia, was one of three Tartan 
double winners as he grabbed off 
the 100 and 220. Both Mihm and 
the “Colonel” have added needed 
depth to the Skibo attack and will 
undoubtedly be heard from in the 
future.
Carnegie’s rapid relay squad 
which has won perpetually for 
many years, again broke the tape 
only to find they had been dis­
qualified by an over anxious offi­
cial who thought he had caught 
one of the Tartan squadsters cut­
ting off a Grover. The event is 
rather ironic in the fact that last 
year in the Skibo Bowl, the same 
incident caused the Skibos to be 
disqualified.
The only competition Grove 
City could produce was in the 
form of Len Pasterniq and Gene 
Burkham who captured the only 
firsts the Grovers mustered. Pas- 
ternik was the only double win- 
Grove City by capturing the jav- 
ner as well as only winner for 
elin and discus. Both events show­
ed him completing tremendous ef­
forts.- Buckham, who has been a 
constant thorn in Tech’s side for 
many years, met his match in 
Frank Smith, but still managed to 
gather second in the 100 and 220 
as well as 3rd in the low hurdles 
and to run a fine leg in the relay.
This afternoon, the Tartans en­
gage a fine Washington and Jef­
ferson team which will pit Bill 
Farson against Larry Bryant in 
the two mile and Neil Oblem 
against Dick Stofan, big high hur­
dler on the 3-2 plan from Hiram. 
Both races will highlight the day 
which should be a dandy.
Grove C'ity vs. Carnegie Tech 
1:55—1 Mile Run—1st Gillies,
Norm Smilek clears the bar at 11 feet to gain a first place in the 
pole vault in the meet with Grove City.
Tech Netmen 
Add Number 6; 
Beat W&J, 7-2
After postponing their game 
with Grove City because of “Old 
Man Rain”, the netmen of Carne­
gie Tech continued on their win­
ning way by whipping the Prexies 
from W. & J. The garrje was 
played on rPech’s court with the 
home boys winning, 7-2, before a 
small crowd of tennis enthusiasts. 
In the singles, Miller, Glaser, Rug- 
heimer, Rowley, and Schaul all 
won their games, while Jacobs was 
able to salvage the only Prexy vic­
tory.
The Tech doubles teams turned 
in the same satisfactory perform­
ance with only one pair losing 
their match. The netmen contin­
ued to look ¦ very impressive as 
they easily won their second game 
of the season and their sixth 
straight. This week the netters 
play Duquesne, whom they beat 
in their first contest, on May 2, 
and Westminster on May 4. The 
game with the Dukes is at Tech, 
while the boys take to the road to 
play Westminster.
Golf Team Has 
Schorr Medalist 
With Low 76,* &
Tom Schorr shot a 76 to win 3V2 
points and medalist honors for a 
losing cause, as Tech lost to Wash­
ington and Jefferson, 12-7, at 
Nemacolin Country Club. The golf 
team has yet to play a home match 
and has been at a decided disad­
vantage playing away from their 
home course. Because of bad 
weather and a soggy course, the 
match with Grove City last Tues­
day was postponed and will be 
played at some later date.
Tuesday, with some good luck 
in the weather, the team will meet 
Geneva at Alcoma Golf Club. 
Playing for the first time at home, 
the linksmen will be trying for 
their first win against two loses.
7—Carnegie Tech..W & J—2
Singles
Miller, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Knox, 6-0, 6-0; Glaser, Carnegie 
Tech, defeated Foutz, 6-2, 6-1; 
Rugheimer, Carnegie Tech, de­
feated Malone, 9-11, 6-4, 6-3; Row­
ley, Carnegie Tech, defeated Hos- 
[Continued on page 9]
2:08—440—Run—1st Muller, CT, 
49.9; 2nd Jansen, GC, 52.7; 3rd 
Heineke, CT, 53,2; Old Record 51.1.
2:16—100 Yd. Dash—1st Smith, 
CT, 10:4; 2nd Buckham, GC, 10:5; 
3rd Sundberg, GC, 10:6.
1:30—Shot-Put—1st Jones, CT, 
41.92/8; 2nd Pastrick, GC, 41.8%; 
3rl Recker, CT, 38.2%.
1:30—Polve-Vault—1st Smilek, 
CT, 11’; 2nd K. Kovalyak, GC, 
10’ 6”; 3rd Bennett, GC, 10’6”; 
(tied 10’6”).
2:33—120 High Hurdle s—1st 
Stofan, CT, 16:5; 2nd Muller, CT, 
16:7; 3rd Hess, GC, 18:5.
3:00—880 Yd. Run—1st Gillies, 
CT, 2:08; 2nd Van Cleef, GC, 
Brown, GC.
3:02—220 Yd. Dash—1st Smith, 
2:13.4; 3rd Brodine, CT, 2:15:4; 4th 
CT, 22:3; 2nd Buckham, GC, 22:4; 
3rd Drage, CT, 23:1; 4th Jansen, 
GC.
3:07—2 Mile Run—1st Bryant, 
CT, 10:49:0; 2nd Coughenour, GC, 
11:00; 3rd Robinson, GC, 11:07.1; 
4th Moon, GC.
2:30—Javelin—1st Pastrick, GC, 
169’5”; 2nd Frick, CT, 160’5”; 3rd 
Hopkins, GC, 159’4%”.
2:25—220 Low Hurdle s—1st 
Muuer, CT, 25.5; 2nd Mihm, CT, 
26.9; 3rd Buckham, GC, 27.3. Old 
Record 25.7.
2:30—High-Jump—1st Frank, 
CT, 5’10”; 2nd Rowe, GC, 5’8”; 3rd 
Haucer, CT, 5’6” and Szewc, CT, 
5’6”.
4:00—One Mile Relay—1st GC, 
Janse, Kinkead, Buckham, Fischer, 
3:40:6.
3:30—Broad-Jump—1st Mihm, 
CT, 19’7”; 2nd Chuck, CT, 18’1”; 
3rd Frank, CT, 17’4%”.
3:30—Discus—1st Pastrick, GC,
122’10”; 2nd Fetter, CT, 109’8 Vfe”; 
CT, 4:33; 2nd Larson, GC, 4:54.1; I 3rd Jones, CT, 108’1”.
3rd Brodine, CT, 5:04.0; 4th Kova- j Final score—Carneie Tech—83 
cevk, CT; 5th Moon, GC. ' Grove City—48
WAA Holds Banquet; 
Awards Are Presented
W.A.A. held its annual awards banquet on Thursday, April 28, 
1955 at Carnegie Union. After a delicious southern fried chicken 
dinner, Jean Ward, vice-president, welcomed the group and then in­
troduced Joan Veleff, awards secretary, who presented the W.A.A. 
awards. Those girls who earned ?——
numerals by at least 40 hours of 
participation were:
Marion Briggs '
Marion Evans 
Peggy Coyne 
Liz Neumann 
Elaine Paul 
Nancy Evans 
Nancy Gardner 
A Carnegie “C” for at least 110 
hours of participation was award­
ed to Barbara Moore.
W.A.A.’s highest awards, the
CIT blazers, were awarded to 
two girls. Lenore El well, a junior 
biology major, received her jacket 
for participation in five varsity 
sports for at least two years each. 
Annadelle Becker, a senior home- 
ec, received her jacket for at least 
180 hours of participation.
Betty Heltsley, intramural 
scheduler, then presented awards 
to the winning intramural teams. 
The following teams received 
[Continued on page 9]
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Here Ed Chandler reviews Long Distance facilities between Atlanta and Lincoln, 
Georgia. He is working from a layout that shotvs all Long Distance lines in the state.
“My classmates 
talked me out off a Job
Ed Chandler had a good job all lined 
up long before he graduated from 
Georgia Institute of Technology as an 
Industrial Engineer. But then he 
changed his mind . . .
64 When I got out of college in ’50,1 was 
all set to go with a company I’d worked 
for during a previous summer.
66But then I got called up by the Army. 
During the next two years I heard a 
lot of good things from my Georgia 
Tech classmates who’d gone to work 
for the telephone company. As far as 
I was concerned this was the best recom­
mendation any company could get.
66So when I got out of the Army I 
stopped in to talk with the telephone 
people. When I saw an outline of their 
development program, I was sold.
uMy first year took me through every 
phase of handling and estimating costs 
on telephone equipment from warehouse 
to installation. I drew up plans for sev­
eral projects, then went out in the field 
to see how they were carried out.*
66Now I’m helping develop next year’s 
multi-million-dollar construction pro­
gram for Georgia. I’ve found it an in­
teresting and rewarding job.”
In the engineering department of Southern B^Jl 
Telephone & Telegraph Company in Atlanta, Ed 
Chandler is moving along in his career. Your Place­
ment Officer can give you details about similar op­
portunities with the other Bell telephone companies 
like Southern Bell —also with Bell Telephone lab­
oratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation.
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 3, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page t
A TO 9s Capture IM Track Meet
and Phi Kappa produced a fine 
2 lap relay team that knocked 35 
seconds from the previous mark 
and set the mark at 1:21.4. Big 
man on the Phi Kappa attack was 
Ed Izzarelli who ran wild in the 
100 anc’ 220 as well as the 2 lap relay.
Records fell as the intramural track meet'produced many new 
standards on a fast Skibo Bowl track. Eight of the previous 11 
marks were toppled in both field and track events. The meet pro­
duced an individual star in Dick Fieler, the classy hoopster of the
Tartans, who broke two oi his own^-----------------------—------------------------
records, anchored both relays, and 
placed third on the broad jump to 
lead SN to a tie with powerful 
KS. Dandy Dick shattered his own 
100 yd. dash record of 11.8 by five 
tenths of a second and brought the 
220 mark from 25.6 to 24.9 seconds.
ATO, last years champs, picked 
up an early lead in the shot and 
mile and then piled up firsts in 
five more events to coast to an 
impressive Tartan victory. No one 
man was outstanding for the 
ATO’s as they produced a better 
balanced team than last year.
Freshmen Ivan Poe and Jim 
Knapp added new life as both set 
records in-the high jump and 440 
respectively, but the balance of 
field and track strength was the 
part of victory for the “little boys 
on the corner.” Had it not been 
for two disasterous mishaps how­
ever, the picture could have been 
much different. The Kappa Sigmas 
looked as if they were on their 
way to dethrone the ATO’s when 
Mike Pascarella, who starred in­
dividually for the Clyde Street 
Aggregate, faltered over a hurdle 
in the qualifying heats on Monday 
and received bad bruises on his 
knees and legs from the bad spill.
This, coupled with the misfortune 
of having their anchor man un­
knowingly cut a corner in the 
thriling 2 lap relay, cost the KS’s 
what might well have been the 
margin of victory. These points 
would have given the KEs undis­
puted possession of second place.
Big A1 Schell provided thrills 
to a much overlooked event as he 
put the 12 pound iron ball to a 
new record for Kappa Sig. Schell 
and Hyams were KS’s big guns in 
the field with Hyams providing 
strength to the track attack also.
Mile
Kovacevic, ATO—5:10.2 
Franks, PK 
Roy, ATO 
Swain, Independent 
Kraus, SN
Low Hurdles
Dosey, ATO—15.9 
King, KS 
Anderson, ATO 
Shot Put 
Schell, KS—45' 9" 
Major, ATO 
Durdaller, SN 
Kohan, SN 
Jeske, ATO 
Old record, 45' 6
2 Lap Relay 
PK, 1:21.4—1:56.1 
SN
(KS, disqualified)
Old record, 1:56.1 
220 Yard Dash 
Fieler, SN—24.9 
Izzarelli, PK 
Schmidt, KS 
Hyams, KS 
Saxton, KS 
Old record, :25.6
100 Yard Dash 
Fieler, SN—11.3 
Pascarella, KS 
Izzarelli, PK 
Jeske, ATO 
Schmidt, KS 
Old record,:11.8
440 Yard Run 
Knaoo. ATO—56.1
Wojtas, SN 
Button, ATO 
Schuler, SN 
Jones, ATO 
Old record, :58.7
880 Yard Run 
Kovacevic, ATO—2:18.5 
Button, ATO 
Boyd, KS 
Roy, ATO 
Kraus, SN
4 Lay Relay 
ATO—3:00.1 
KS 
PK 
SN
Old record, 3:04.6 
Teams Final Scores
ATO .................................64
KS ...................................34
SN ...................................34
PK ....................................26
IND.................................... 6
Dick Fieler shown breaking his own record in the 100 yard 
dash which he won in a breeze.
CIT’S full and part time faculty j CIT opened its drama depart- 
totals oves 375 members. i ment in 1914.
WINS
changed America's mind 
about filter cigarettes!
Ivan Poe in action during
WAA—
[Continued from page 8]
awards:
- Volleyball-Dorm team
Co-rec Volleyball - Independent
II.
The following officers were in­
stalled:
V. Pres.—Barb Moore. « 
Recording Secty.—Sally Lynn. 
Awards Secty.—Sharon Lease. 
Treas.—Carol Trammell.
Head of Intramurals — Joan 
Henricksen.
Governing Board Members: 
Elaine Paul, Joan Veleff, Liz 
Neumann, Marty McCleery, Nancy 
Evans.
Diane Farrington was re-elected 
president and will serve a second 
year as president.
Jean Ward was banquet chair­
man; committee heads were: food 
•—Elaine Paul, programs — Joan 
Henricksen and Barb Moore, 
decorations—Joan Veleff, invita­
tions—Annadelle Becker.
Tennis Club 
Qualifying tests have been com­
pleted and the following people 
have been selected as Group A. 
Amity Doering 
» Lenore Elwell 
Diane Farrington 
Joan Henricksen 
Grace McAllister 
Lyn McKibben
the Intramural Track meet.
Regie Onda 
Lyn Porter 
Georgia Riddel 
Carol Trammell 
Dot Walton 
These players will represent 
Tech in tournaments which are 
scheduled with Geneva, PCW, and 
Pitt. Carol Trammell is manager 
of the club and Miss Nancy Bar­
thélémy is coach.
Softball Club 
Rain has hampered outside 
practice but indoor practice is in 
full swing. The first game will be 
at Geneva on Saturday, April 30. 
With the return of six of last years 
players and several newcomers, 
the team should be fairly strong. 
Sally Lynn is manager, and Miss 
Jane Fisk is coach.
Tennis—
[Continued from page 8] 
tetter, 3-6, 6-3, 6-0; Jacobs, W & J, 
defeated Dusair, 6-4, 6-2; Schaul, 
Carnegie Tech, defeated Eisenfield, 
7-5, 6-4.Doubles
Miller and Glaser, Carnegie 
Tech, defeated Foutz and Jacobs, 
6-1, 6-2; Entress and Malony, 
W & J, defeated Schaul and Wick­
ham, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4; Riley and 
Narweski, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Fulton and Kaufman, 7-5, 6-2.
WINSTON 7^e &2sy-ckawì*to <y'qaxetfef
*¦ J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINai
WINSTON brings flavor 
to filter smoking!
¦ It didn’t take long for word to get 
around campus! Winston’s got real flavor 
—the full, rich, tobacco flavor you want. 
No wonder so many college men and 
women are getting together on Winston!
Along with finer flavor, Winston also 
brings you a finer filter. The exclusive 
Winston filter works so effectively, yet 
lets the flavor come right through to 
you. Easy-drawing—that’s Winston!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 3, 1955
mÊMmi§§iËÊÊÉËM*filili
pusiiisiisiiÉagfesÂ
If mmmss*r mtmmmammm
'•« mmmmm-m *«:*»*#* ******** **«•««- mm**® *%**>*»**¥ ç? >; -, v. X - •< ••« « Í-: » S» A •• S •' ; w* ' ' ••' *
»Mil
Tartan Awards To Be Given 
At Call Day Ceremonies
Friday, May 6, -at Tech’s Call Day ceremonies, the Tartan will 
present two awards, one to the varsity athlete of the year and the 
other to the intramural athlete of the year.
Each of the coaches nominates a member of a vai'sity team who |j^
is graduating that year. Here are^-————----------------------------------—
the varsity athletes who have been I year to Penn State, a lose thatnominated for the award, with a 
brief description of each.
Eddie Miller 
Eddie Miller, backfield star of 
the Carnegie Tartans, has been a 
letterman throughout all of his 
four years of football at Tech. 
Eddie’s first contact with a pig­
skin came in the tenth grade at 
Homestead High School. He play­
ed both varsity football and
ended a string of 22 straight 
victories that had covered four 
seasons.
John Muller
Undoubtedly one of the out­
standing members of this year’s 
and last year’s track team, John 
Muller began his track career as 
a youngster in the. summer base­
ball league. Forced to run all the
varsity basketball during all three : to *$e «am®s an? a'> ‘he ^- back, and according to John, has
been running ever since.”years of high school, and starred 
as quarterback and halfback in the 
former. His outstanding participa­
tion in the latter netted him a 
position on the Pittsburgh All- 
Section six basketball team, which 
included Homestead, McKeesport, 
Duqutsne, Clairton, and Munhall.
In addition to football, where 
he spent his first two years at 
Tech as quarterback and his last 
two as halfback, Eddie also earned 
a letter in varsity backetball dur­
ing his senior year, as a member 
of the C-club, and a participant in 
intramural softball. Academically 
a civil engineering senior, Eddie 
is a member of the ASCE.
Mai Gillies
Mai Gillies began his track 
career in a rather unique rhanner. 
As a boy in his early teens he 
started running around the school 
track for “someting to do.” He 
participated in both track and 
cross-country while attending 
Bordmen High School in Youngs­
town, Ohio. Starring in both his 
junior and senior years, he ran the 
half mile, the mile and on oc­
casions the quarter-mile. In his 
senior year Gillies was appointed 
captain of both the track and 
cross-country teams. He ran the 
Wewisville mile in the record time 
of 4:40.
Mai is a member of both the 
varsity cross-country and track 
teams and has served as captain 
of both for the past two years. 
Also one of the very busy mem­
bers of the thinclads, Mai runs the 
half mile, mile and a leg of the 
mile relay and last year ran the 
two-mile event. Last year he set 
a record of 4:29 at W & J and was 
previously the holder of the Tech 
half-mile record.
His duels with Homer Weaver 
of Geneva, in both cross-country 
and track have provided district 
running fans something to talk 
about. Though old man weather 
robbed Mai of the chance to gain 
vengeance on Weaver, he will get 
another chance at the Geneva star 
at Tri-State on May 14.
Jim Miller
Jim Miller, Tech’s number one 
tennis player and t?ie man to beat 
for the past four years, also serves 
as the team’s captain.
Jim started playing ping pong 
in the eighth grade, but has been 
playing tennis since he was ten 
or 12 years old. He became 
Pennsylvania state junior table 
tennis champion in 1949 and was 
runner up in the same event in 
1950.
In his hometown of York, Penn­
sylvania, he won the junior tennis 
championship two years in a row 
(1950-51).
While at Tech he has been the 
perennial table tennis singles 
champion and in 1952 emerged 
victorious in the Pittsburgh men’s 
singles table tennis championship. 
Active in practically all of the 
intramural sports, he received the 
MVP award for his all around 
play in basketball.
While Jim has been a member 
of the tennis team, they have lost 
only one match and that one last
While attending Princeton High 
School in New Jersey he lettered 
nine times. During his senior year 
he finished third in the state in 
the half mile, "and also competed 
in the Penn and Seton Hall Relays.
Muller ran the relay and the 
half-mile during his freshmen 
year at Tech and only started 
hurdling last year. Last year was 
also John’s first year in the 
quarter-mile. This year as last 
year, John is once again one of 
the iron men of the team, com­
peting in the 440, 880, high and in 
the hurdles, and anchor man on 
the relay team. He holds the 
record for the 440 «and just re­
cently set two records at the 
Grove City track in his specialty, 
the 440 and the 220 low hurdles.
Bill Aiken 
Likeable Bill Aiken, did a 
yeoman’s job this year on the 
swimming team, as the Tartans 
reversed their record of the year 
before from 3-7 to 8-3.
Bill swam in the 300 year med­
ley relay and the 220 yard breast 
stroke, besides serving as the 
team’s captain.
Bill, a product of Carrick High
School, and a standout performer, 
did not start really swimming 
until his high school days. After 
the school season was over Aiken 
swam in the downtown “Y” 
tournaments.
This year when it looked as 
though Bill would be coming into 
his own in the “butterfly” breast 
stroke, the NCAA changed the 
style to the “orthodox” breast 
stroke.” Instead of a slowing 
down of his time, Bill went on a 
record breaking spree until he 
reached a time of 2:32 for the 
200 yard breast stroke, only a few 
seconds off an intercollegiate 
mark.
Carnegie Tech has net assets 
totaling approximately $48,000,- 
000. The physical plant and build 
ings are valued at $17,000,000 and 
the income bearing endowment is 
approximately $30,000,000.
50 million times a day 
at home, 
. at work or 
while at play
%
There’s nothing like a
1. BRIGHT, RIGHT TASTB 
tangy, bracing, ever-fresh.
2. FAST REFRESHMENT... 
a bit of quick energy for a 
wholesome, little lift.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS
• TRY US FIRST •
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
lOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 
Sltt Center Avenue HlUná 1-7911
"Coke" h • registered trod*-mark. O 1M3, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
CASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS A TIES 
UNDERWEAR 
HANDKERCHIEFS
1955 Tartan Athletes
Top row, left to right: E. Miller, Football; John Muller, Track; 
Jim Miller, Tennis. Bottom row: Mai Gillies, Cross-Country; Bill 
Aiken, Swimming.
NO ONE EVER GOT “TEED OFF' 
AT AN ARROW POLO SHIRT
How could they? Arrow polos give unlimited comfort and 
style. What’s more, these fine knitted polos keep their shape 
almost forever*
For casual wear, and for active sports, you’ll find them cool 
and absorbent... a pleasure to wear. In solids, stripes and quiet 
patterns, these luxurious polos are yours at a pauper’s price.
Combine them with smartly tailored Arrow sailcloth slacks 
like those shown above, and you'll face the heat »».calm, cool 
and correct. Arrow polos, $3.95. Slacks, 95.98.ARROW

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 3, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 11
^AftNECTRj, . fj
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ......................................................................................... Dolores Neff
Circulation Editor ........................................................................ Jim Soltis
Reporters..............Kathy Galligan, Frank Polma, John Van Holt, Jr.
Good Food, Fun? Frolic 
Promised For Banquet
This is an urgent reminder to those evening students who are 
planning to attend the Engineering Banquet, Thursday, May 5, is 
the last doy for purchasing your tickets.
Those unfortunates who do not do so will have to take their 
chances at getting in at the door.+ -............................................................
Annual Banquet 
Of Phi Gamma Pi 
Set For May 28
In order to assure the success 
of the top social activity of Phi 
Gamma Pi Sorority, all members 
are urged to remit reservations 
and payments to Audrey Wiskow 
not later than Monday, May 16.
The banquet, being held at the 
Gateway Plaza on Saturday even­
ing, May 28 at 6:00 p.m., is based 
on an Hawaiian theme. Audrey 
promises that there will be many 
surprises for the girls and that a 
good time will be had by all.
All Phi Gamma Pi’s are urged 
to get their reservations and money 
in now to avoid the disappoint­
ment of not being able to attend.
This year, unfortunately, the num­
ber of people who will be permit­
ted into the Banquet Hall is lim­
ited.
Are there some questions you 
would like to have answered con­
cerning this affair? We will do 
our best to answer these ques­
tions with the following informa­
tion. A delicious meal is being 
planned but the exact menu is 
still indefinite. The speaker, Mr. 
E. E. Moore, will talk on “Lead­
ership opportunities for Engineers” 
and from advance information, we 
can assure you that Mr. Moore’s 
talk will be both interesting and 
most informative to all those 
present.
Excellent Entertainment
The entertainment, “and no 
cameras allowed!!”, has been all 
“handpicked” by Ray Daly. 
The Mistress of Ceremonies 
will be one of Pittsburgh’s most 
popular comedienne’s. There will 
be Dancers, Acrobats, Dancers, 
and Singers (with talent, too.) 
You are assured of a good hour 
and a half of fun and frolic.
Would you like to have a beau­
tiful Revere Ware set for your 
wife; an automatic clock radio to 
wake you up with a smile on Mon­
day morn.ngs; or an electric shav­
er for that tough beard? These are 
just a few of the many door prizes 
to be given away by Ralph Czer- 
nek (who would like to keep them 
for himself!J at the close of the 
evening.
You may purchase your tickets 
from any of the following: Mr. 
McKelway; any male member of 
the Student Council; members of 
Sigma Delta Phi or Phi Nu fra­
ternities; or from the B.M.O.C. 
himself, Vince Golobic.
If there are any questions that 
haven’t been answered herein, 
please write, call (or wire col­
lect), the man sitting in the back­
ground, the Banquet Chairman,
Tennis Club Meet 
Postponed Until 
Sunday, May 22
As announced in last week’s is­
sue of the Plaid, there is a tennis 
group forming for this coming 
summer. The first date for meet­
ing and playing a few fast games 
had been reported as May 8; but, 
because May 8 is Mother’s Day, 
the first game has been resched­
uled for Sunday, May 22 at 2:00 
p.m.
This tennis group is not restrict­
ed to any one particular organiza­
tion, but is open to any even­
ing student interested in playing 
tennis. Should anyone wish any 
further information regarding this 
group or be interested in joining, 
please write to: Dolores Neff, Plaid 
Editor, Box 256, Carnegie Tech, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Notice
Anyone who is not satisfied 
with the number of Student 
Council points recorded for 
his name, please make a list 
of the points you think you 
deserve and submit it to the 
Plaid Editor, Box 256, Car­
negie Tech, Pittsburgh 13, Fa.
Notice
All those selling tickets for 
the Engineer’s Banque t— 
please contact Vince Golobic. 
Home phone: ST 1-8118; Busi­
ness phone: GR 1-7450. Let 
him know how many tickets 
you have sold. Reservations 
must be made by 9:00 Thurs­
day without fail.
ES Newman Club 
Has Bowling Party
On Saturday evening, April 23, 
the Newman Club Federation held 
its annual bowling party at the 
Strand Bowling Alleys. The games 
got under way shortly after 9:30 
p.m. and approximately 90 bowl­
ing enthusiasts kept the pins fall­
ing until midnight. Some of the 
Tech Newmanites seen about the 
alleys were: Kathy Galligan, Bill 
Bond, Dolores Neff, Ed Daly, El­
vira Loreski, Chuck Labee, Edna 
Thorwart, Ralph Czernek, Emily 
Muhic and John Van Holt.
Letter—
Thanks
Plaid Editor:
I would like to express my 
thanks to a very fine group of 
people who have supplied me with 
invaluable help and advice for 
making the Engineer’s Banquet 
possible.
First, my thanks go to Ralph 
Czernek, who during our associa­
tion has proved time and time 
again that he will tackle any job 
and do it to the best of his ability.
Secondly, I wish to thank Do­
lores Neff for unhesitatingly de­
voting her time and space in the 
Plaid newspaper.
Thirdly, my thanks go - to the 
very fine entertainment commit­
tee: Ed Daly, Ray Klimas, and 
Andy Spisak; and to our ticket 
manager, Vince Golobic, and to all 
who have helped to make this ban­
quet a success.
Especially, I want to thank Mr. 
McKelway for again proving his 
interest in our annual affair and 
for devoting many hours of his 
time and for supplying us with 
his invaluable advice and help.
J. Frank Polma 
Banquet Chairman..
Graduate work in engineering 
and science was initiated in 1922 
and master’s, doctor’s and pro­
fessional degrees were conferred.
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Day Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS CLEANERS
mm
HEY,THERE ! MORE LUCKY DROODLES !
mm
WHAT’S THIS? For solution see paragraph below.
COTTONTAIL RABBIT ON MOONLIT NIGHT
Arlen J. Kuklin University of Nebraska
TWO BIROS FIGHTING OVER WORM
Joseph Bex U. C. L. A.
HOT DOG ON HAMBURGH BUN '
Burt Griffin Wake Forest
EARN $25!STUDENTS!
Lucky Droodles* are pouring in! Where 
are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, and 
for many we don’t use. So, send every 
original Droodle in your noodle, with its 
descriptive title, to: Lucky Droodle, P. O. 
Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.
?DROODLES, Copyright 1958 by Roger Prte*
ARE YOU LOOKING for a completely enjoy­
able cigarette? Then get a clue from the 
Droodle above, titled: Smoke rings blown 
by riveter enjoying Luckies. Fasten on to 
Luckies yourself. Luckies are such great 
shakes because they taste better. And 
they taste better for excellent reasons. 
First of all, Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. Then, that tobacco is toasted to 
taste better. “It’s Toasted”—the famous 
Lucky Strike process—tones up Luckies* 
light, good-tasting tobacco to make it 
taste even better . . . cleaner, fresher, 
smoother. So, whenever it’s light-up time, 
enjoy yourself fully. Enjoy the better- 
tasting cigarette . . . Lucky Strike.
POORLY MADE SLICE OF SWISS CHEESE
David Russell Watson Franklin A Marshall
It
' Letter!jo-taste **
T?ettea taste Luckies...
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!
©A.T. Co. product of {J/& dnvi'u&in' America’s leading manufacturer of cigarettes

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 3, 1955
"/'ve got UM... and 
IIJM's got everything!
Stands Out from All the Rest! l&m wins its letters for 
flavor... Light and Mild. And the pure, white Miracle Tip draws 
easy, so you enjoy all the taste. No wonder L&M sales are soaring 
on campus after campus. It’s America's best filter cigarette•
Relays, Egg Toss, Dances 
Plank Jousting Featured—
[Continued from page 1 ] *
that event the program will be 
held in the gym.
Immediately following the cere­
monies the sorority relay compe­
titions will be held on Fine Arts 
Lawn. The nature of these relays 
has not been known.
Once again in response to huge 
demand by ................... the facul­
ty will toss eggs on Friday after­
noon at 3 p.m. in front of Fine 
Arts. The object is for a pair of 
faculty members to toss an egg 
back and forth over an ever in­
creasing distance. The pair suc­
cessfully tossing the egg from the 
farthest distance apart before they 
miss is the winner.
The record stands at 85 feet, set 
by professors Gregg and Daily last 
year. A sterling group of contest­
ants are out to beat that record. A 
partial list includes Arrott and 
Guthrie from Physics, Greenburg 
and Cohen from Mathematics, Gay­
lord and Rouleau from Mechanical 
Engineering and Monrad and 
Rothfus from Chemical Engineer­
ing. Anyone can do it and the 
number of teams is not limited, so 
how about some of the faculty 
giving it a try.
Street Dance at Nine
On Friday evening at 9:00 the 
again-traditional street dance will 
be held on Tech street by the 
flagpole. Walt Harper will sup­
ply the music from the alcove 
at the entrance of Engineering 
Hall. During intermission Bob 
Hamilton and his Quartette will 
entertain. The area will be roped 
off and only ticket holders will 
be admitted. Once again, if rain 
forces the party indoors, the trusty 
gym will do service. The dancing 
will go on underneath the stars 
until 1:00 when Carnival takes a 
short nap.
Sunday afternoon the drama de­
partment will present its annual 
cricket match on the Fine Arts 
Lawn at 1:00 and then attention 
will shift to a mud hole at the 
side of Carnegie Union. The event 
is plank-jousting and involves a 
plank four inches wide supported 
18 inches over a sea of mud. One 
organization’s team of five joust- 
ers will compete against another 
team of five in each elimination 
match of the series.
Each team sends a combatant 
armed with a pillow to the middle 
of the plank where they swat one 
another until one is “unhorsed” 
and the other crosses to the far end 
of the plank. If both fall, the 
round is a draw. The team having 
winners in a majority of the five
FntHM ly
DON FRIEDMAN
DAVEBRUBECK QUARTET
PAUL DESMOND
GERRYMULLIGAN
CHET
The Most Exciting Concert 
of the Year
SYRIA MOSQUE 
SAT., MAY 7 
ONE SHOW—8:30 P. M.'
Good Seats Now at All Prices!
Reserved seats $1.75, $2.50. $3.00, $3.75 
(Incl. tax) on sale NOW at the Main 
Box Office, B. E. Baltz Agency (Volk- 
wein’s), 632 Liberty Ave. AT 1-2196. 
Also Horne’s, Gimbels and Studio Dee, 
3001 Center Ave.
MAIL ORDERS
Send check or money order with self- 
addressed stamped envelope to B. E. 
Baltz Agency now.
rounds wins the match. The win­
ners play winners until the cham­
pion team is determined.
Formal and Awards in Gym 
Saturday night at 9:00 p.m. Art 
Mooney and his famous band will 
be playing for the formal held in 
the gym. The dance is formal and 
no flowers will be allowed. At 
11:00 or so, during intermission, 
the various awards will be made 
—buggy design, buggy race, relays, 
plank-jousting, and the egg toss. 
At 1:00 the dance ends and at 
3:00 the curfew bell of More- 
wood Gardens tolls out over the 
campus.- 
Another year, another Carnival 
over. All that remains is the debris 
which takes from now to finals to 
clear away.
Tickets
Tickets for the street dance 
on Friday night and for the 
formal on Saturday night are 
on sale each day at Skibo 
from 11:30 to 1:30. The price 
is S4.75 and entitles the hold­
er to attend both dances.
Brubeck, Mulligan, 
Baker, Bring Show 
To Syria Mosque
Saturday night, May 7, Dave 
Brubeck and his quartet, voted the 
new leaders in modern jazz, and 
Gerry Mulligan, Chet Baker Quin­
tet with their listenable music, 
comes to the Syria Mosque for one 
big show at 8:30.
The three top men of jazz will 
appear in a show named “New 
Jazz At The Mosque.” Never be­
fore have we had the pleasure of 
seeing and hearing three national 
poll winners in the field of modern 
jazz on the same program. Their 
records are among the top in sales 
for Columbia Records, and they 
are featured in leading magazines 
as the musicians who have given 
“New Life to U. S. Jazz.”
The entire show is flying here 
from California in a chartered 
plane, and Pittsburgh will be one 
of the two cities, other than New 
York, where the show will appear.
Tickets are selling at popular 
prices, and are on sale at the main 
box office, R. E. Baltz Agency in 
Volkwein’s Music Store, 632 Lib­
erty Avenue, Pittsburgh 22, Pa., 
also Gimbels, Horne’s and Studio 
Dee, 3001 Centre Avenue, or phone 
Atlantic 1-2196. Mail orders are 
also given prompt attention, send 
check or money order with self- 
addressed stamped envelope to the
R. E. Baltz Agency. For good seats 
it is advised to buy your tickets 
early.
Eta Kappa Nu recognizes men 
who have outstanding scholastic 
records in electrical engineering.
AM spies to your life with a swank variety of new spring and summer shoes to fit every occasion —everyday dress-up and casual.
Subtract precious little from your cash reserves! BUY ALL THREE STYLES FOR ONLY *23.85*- a price you’d expect to pay for a single pair! $6.95, $7.95 and $8.95 per pair. Ask your dealer for FREE moneyfold!
At odyri M h Etqvk*
THE VERY NEWEST IN YOUNG MEN’S SHOES
CAMPUS “STAND-OUTS”???*BMOC
Q Lxxrrr * Mrut Tmacco C*
