FEATURES..............PageK
Sitting atop a pole and 60 seconds ex-5-1 
pires
SPORTS....................Page 20
CMU competes in its first rowing meet 
and the results of the NFL draft
IINSIDE
April 26,1988

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—April 26,1988
m»iFim
World
News
Navy detonates three 
mines in Persian Gulf
MANAMA, Bahrain (DJ) — Navy mine 
sweepers detonated three mines that were 
found earlier in the week near an offshore 
Iranian oil platform in the Persian Gulf, ship­
ping executives reported.
The mines were spotted last Tuesday by a 
French warship near the Sassan platform, 
about 128 kilometers west of the Qatar penin­
sula. The area was declared a navigational 
hazard with commercial vessels warned to 
stay away.
The French warship reported sighting two 
submerged mines and a floating one, said the 
shipping executives who spoke on condition 
of not being identified.
Sassan is one of the two Iranian platforms 
that the Navy blasted last Monday in retali­
ation for a mine that put a hole in the U.S. 
frigate Samuel B. Roberts.
Iranian warships shelled a U.S.-flagged 
supply vessel in the southern Persian Gulf in 
an outburst of counter-strikes after U.S. war­
ships attacked two Iranian oil platforms in the 
southern Gulf in a “measured response” to the 
mining of an American frigate last week.
The Navy, assisted by a multinational fleet of 
mine sweepers, has been working since the 
weekend to clear a minefield, some 112 kilo­
meters northeast of where the three mines 
were detonated.
The minefield is in a key shipping channel 
frequented by Navy warships escorting re­
flagged Kuwaiti tankers to and from Kuwait.
Navy sending 13 ships 
to the Persian Gulf
WASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. Navy is 
deploying 13 ships to the Persian Gulf over the 
week in a long-planned and routine series of 
rotations, the Defense Department said Thurs­
day.
Spokesman Dan Howard said he was an­
nouncing the ship movements to head off 
speculation that the U.S. had already decided 
to increase the size of its Middle East force.
Howard said earlier this week that President 
Reagan’s administration was reviewing its 
gulf policies in the wake of heavy fighting on 
Monday with Iranian forces. But he stressed 
yesterday that the review was continuing and 
the new deployments involved ships ear­
marked for “a changing of the guard."
“It's been scheduled for some time. It’s not a 
reinforcement,” he said. The Navy tries to
limit to six months the maximum deployment 
for any warship.
Howard said five ships would leave from 
Atlantic Coast ports on April 28. He identified 
them as the destroyer John Hancock and the 
frigates Fahrion, Halyburton, Nicholas and 
Robert G. Bradley.
On April 25, he said, the aircraft carrier 
Forrestal and seven escorts will depart East 
Coast ports for a routine deployment first to 
the Mediterranean Sea and then on to the 
Indian Ocean and the northern Arabian Sea 
outside the gulf.
Algeria promises safe 
conduct to hijackers
KUWAIT (AP) — The hijackers of a Kuwait 
Airways jetliner surrendered to Algerian au­
thorities in return for a promise of safe conduct 
to an unspecified destination, an official 
Kuwaiti source said.
The official, speaking on condition of ano­
nymity, said the hijackers were given assur­
ances of safe conduct when they met aboard 
the Boeing 747 at Algiers airport last Tuesday 
with Algerian Foreign Minister Taleb 
Ibrahimi.
“The hijackers surrendered after the Algeri­
ans promised them safe conduct,” the official 
said. He gave no other details.
The Kuwait News Agency quoted Kuwait’s 
ambassador to Algiera, Jassem al-Boursali, as 
saying: “All hostages and crew members have 
been released, and the hijackers have appar­
ently surrendered to Algerian authorities.”
He said the 31 passengers and crew members 
who walked off the Boeing after their 15-day 
ordeal were taken to a hospital in Algiers for 
medical checks.
The hijackers, believed to number eight, left 
the aircraft before dawn Wednesday, but it 
was not clear where they went after that.
Kuwaitis hailed the reported surrender of the 
hijackers as a triumph for their government’s 
firm stand against terrorism by refusing to 
meet the gunmen’s demand to free 17 con­
victed bombers.
Canada plans to build 
nuclear sub fleet
OTTAWA (DJ) — The Canadian govern­
ment is forging ahead with plans to build a 
fleet of nuclear-powered submarines, hopeful 
that President Reagan will override stiff resis­
tance in his administration and allow the trans­
fer of U.S. technology.
Frank Gaffney, a former U.S. Defense De­
partment official, says he doesn't know “a 
single, responsible official" in the U.S. ad­
ministration who favors the Canadian subma­
rine plan.
Canada is evaluating French and British 
designs for the fleet of 10 to 12 subs, which.
5168 PENN AVE
P/ome 36:
16 INCHPEPPERONI PIZZA $4.'Otex
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
with support facilities, would cost an officially 
estimated 8 billion Canadian dollars ($6.5 
billion). The British Trafalgar design uses 
U.S. technology and U.S. approval is required 
for the transfer of this know-how to Canada. 
Canada decided not to buy a U.S. design be­
cause the U.S. subs are much larger and cost­
lier than the Trafalgar or French Amethyste 
vessels.
The U.S. is expected to make its decision 
soon on the technology transfer; probably be­
fore Canadian Prime Minsiter Brian Mulroney 
arrives in Washington for his summit meeting 
with Reagan. Except for Britain, the U.S. has 
so far rejected all requests from other countries 
for nulcear-sub technology.
If the administration approves, it will ask 
Congress to amend a 29-year-old U.S.-Can­
ada nuclear cooperation agreement to permit 
the transfer.
Air Force unveils 
Stealth bomber design
WASHINGTON (DJ) — For eight years — 
since former President Carter first disclosed 
the existence of its development — the super­
secret Stealth bomber has been the subject of 
intense speculation. But the military has kept 
the radar-evading aircraft, built by Northrop 
Corp., under the tightest of wraps.
Wednesday, the Pentagon allowed the first 
peek at its new bomber design. In a surprise 
move, the Air Force released an artist’s draw­
ing of a spooky flying machine that looks more 
like a space-age boomerang than an aircraft.
The winglike shape of the aircraft, which is 
designed to deflect enemy surveillance radar, 
confirms what had long been suspected: the 
Stealth is adapted from an aircraft that 
Northrop developed 40 years ago, the YB-49, 
known as the Flying Wing. The Air Force 
never bought that plane, but its technology 
formed the basis for today’s theories of radar- 
evasion techniques, which also involve ad­
vanced composite materials and electronics.
As an Air Force spokesman said, the drawing 
was made public because the classified plane
— officially known as the B-2 — would soon 
make an appearance on the runway outside a 
Northrop plant in Palmdale, Calif., in prepara­
tion for its maiden flight this fall. That would 
put the Stealth about one year behind its initial 
schedule.
In a prepared statement, the Pentagon also 
hinted that disclosures soon would be forth­
coming about what may be the most startling 
aspect of the B-2: its budget. In 1981, the Air 
Force said it intended to buy 132 of the bomb­
ers at a total cost of $36.6 billion, making the 
Stealth the most expensive military aircraft 
ever built. Now that estimate is to be “up­
dated,” the Air Force said Wednesday.
Analysts estimate the cost of those planes has 
risen to between $53 billion and $59 billion.
David Smith, an aerospace industry consult­
ant,'said the Pentagon may have timed the 
release of the Stealth drawing to pressure 
Northrop to meet its schedules. “They’ve^ 
thrown down a gauntlet and said, ‘Now you * 
better be dam sure it flies in the fall. ’ This is an 
interesting way of holding Northrop’s feet to 
the fire.”
House approves ban on 
dial-a-porn services
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The House over-® ? 
whelmingly approved a ban on dial-a-porn 
services and rejected a plan that would have 
required customers to subscribe in advance 
before they could call a service.
The ban is expected to be approved by the 
Senate and signed by the president, but 
Tuesday’s action almost certainly presages a 
court fight. The ban outlaws obscene and 
indecent speech over the telephone, but consti-1 
tutional lawyers have argued that the First 
Amendment protects indecent speech.
The provision could force telephone compa­
nies to alter plans to give dial-a-pom services 
a separate exchange and allow consumers to 
block calls from their home to that exchange.
A House Democratic aide said such plans 
could be outlawed because the phone com­
pany would be allowing customers to dial! 
banned services.
Civic Arena could be 
renamed after mayor
PITTSBURGH — The Civic Arena Corpo­
ration is considering naming the arena the 
Richard S. Caliguiri Arena, after the present 
mayor.
The city Housing Authority has already 
named a highrise for the elderly after the ailing 
mayor.
Last year Caliguiri was diagnosed as having 
an incurable disears that causes his body to 
overproduce proteins. It is often fatal.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
Postal Business and Communication Services
f\ EATURS BOXES ETC. .PU
IT’S EASY!
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS!
Enjoy a hassle-free move back 
home. No need to worry about 
room in the car, packing boxes for 
the plane", or extra trips for your 
family.
MAIL BOXES ETC. CAN SHIP 
ANYTHING ANYWHERE!
Just take your things (clothes, 
stereo, books, computer, 
typewriter, etc.) to the store and 
MBE will pack and ship them 
directly to your home.
If you plan ahead, you could have 
everything home before you get 
there!
LOCATION: 414 South Craig St. 
PHONE: 687-6100

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 3
Dean Williams 
to take job at 
General Electric
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
Dean James C. Williams of the Carne­
gie Institute of Technology will take a 
post at General Electric at the end of the 
summer. Dean since 1983, he has spent 
a total of 13 years at Carnegie Mellon.
Williams is returning to private indus­
try. Before coming to the University, he 
worked at Boeing and Rockwell Inter­
national in southern California. His neu* 
job will be as general manger for mate­
rials in GE’s aircraft engine division in 
Cincinnati.
Before becoming dean of Carnegie 
Mellon’s largest college, Williams 
served as President of Mellon Institute 
and as a faculty member in Metallurgi­
cal Engineering and Materials Science.
Williams, 49, said in an interview that 
“I’m going to miss Pittsburgh. My fam­
ily thinks of it as home.’-’ He said he 
regrets leaving before some projects 
have been completed, such as the Elec­
tronic Materials Building and a compre­
hensive master’s degree program with 
GSIA, but this job opportunity became 
available several months ago.
The dean commented that he will miss 
“the quality and enthusiasm of students 
at Carnegie Mellon. The media would 
have you believe that America is going 
to pot.... The people who write that trash 
have never come to this campus.
Judy Resnik memorial dedicated
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
A memorial for astronaut and alumna Judith
A. Resnik was dedicated on Tuesday, April
19. The memorial, a cast metal bent set in a 
stone base, was accepted by Carnegie Mellon 
Provost Angel Jordan.
The sculpture was commissioned by Tau 
Beta Pi, the national engineering honor soci­
ety, of which Resnik was a member. It was 
paid for by donations and the sale of sweat­
shirts by the society.
It ¡^presents the symbol of the society, 
founded to honor outstanding engineering 
students and to foster a spirit of liberal culture 
in engineering colleges.
Resnik graduated from Carnegie Mellon in 
1970 with a bachelor’s degree in electrical 
engineering. She was 36 years old when she 
died in the crash of the space shuttle Chal­
lenger on January 28,1986. The inscription on 
the sculpture reads “She lived as she died: 
reaching for the sky.”
Resnik was a gifted musician and excelled in 
science and math. Classical piano music, a 
forte of Resnik’s, was played prior to the un­
veiling of the memorial. Several of the speak­
ers at the dedication stressed that Resnik rep­
resented Tau Beta Pi’s goal of fostering liberal 
culture among engineers.
When Resnik died, Carnegie Mellon created 
a scholarship fund in her memory. This year’s 
recipients, two outstanding women in electri­
cal engineering, were present at the unveiling.
University administrators, faculty, and stu­
dents sat in a frigid wind during the ceremony. 
Also present were television crews and spon­
sors of the Resnik scholarship.
Jordan, Resnik’s mentor, spoke briefly at the
beginning of the ceremony, held under a tent 
on the Wean Hall patio. He was followed by 
David Kopchik, President of Tau Beta Pi’s 
Carnegie Mellon chapter, who unveiled the 
sculpture. Kopchik gave a brief history of the 
memorial before lifting the tartan cloth that 
wrapped the memorial.
The memorial is in front of Hamerschlag 
Hall, where Resnik spent much of her career as
an electrical engineering major. A reception 
was held in Hamerschlag after the unveiling.
As a Carnegie Mellon student, Resnik was 
active in campus organizations, including 
Alpha Epsilon Phi sorority and the student 
advisory committee of the Electrical Engi­
neering Department. She also was a typesetter 
for The Tartan.
Early this semester, Student Senate passed a 
resolution calling for the new dormitory to be 
named after Resnik. University administrators 
are exploring the possibility.
She won Carnegie Mellon’s Distinguished 
Alumni Award in 1985. After graduation, 
Resnik was hired by the Radio Corporation of 
America as a design engineer. She worked for 
the National Institutes of Health as a biomedi­
cal engineer and was a systems engineer at 
Xerox Corp. She was working on her doctoral 
degree in electrical engineering when she re­
sponded to the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration’s call for applicants. 
Early in 1978, Resnik was chosen from a field 
of 8,000 to become an astronaut candidate.
photo by Eric W. Leuliette
The Resnik Memorial stands on the Wean 
Patio shortly,after it was unveiled.
PaFFg eaKO2, 
0IN NDp2 p2 NDr 
Ki2N liFNi6 ae 
NDr 2r,r2NrF1
Candidates discuss plans for education at debate
must also be markets because to be trained 
with no markets, is to be all dressed up and no 
place to go,” said Jackson.
“We’re not going to develop the kind of
“Doubling the education 
budget in the face of a $170 bil­
lion deficit? I don’t see how you 
can do that.”
— Michael Dukakis
technology, the kind of modernized industry 
in steel and other places in the county, if we 
tolerate the merger and acquisitions business. 
We’ve got an Attorney General in this country 
that doesn’t know the difference between anti­
trust and anti-freeze,” said Dukakis.
The question posed by first year SUPA stu­
dent Leslie Williams dealt with the candi­
dates’ stands on education.
“Education and job training is becoming so 
expensive not only for the rich but even for the 
middle class and particularly for those without 
jobs in the Pittsburgh area. What would your 
administration do to support educational op­
portunity?” asked Williams.
After quipping that he would hire Williams, 
Dukakis outlined a three part plan that would 
recruit more public school teachers, send 
everyone who was qualified to college, and 
fight adult illiteracy.
“We’d better commit ourselves as a nation to 
one basic proposition and that is any young 
person who graduates from high school and is 
qualified to do college work ought to have an 
opportunity to go to college,” said Dukakis to 
a round of applause.
Jackson, on the other hand, pledged to 
double the education budget, to spend $3 bil­
lion on Head Start and to spend money to fight 
drugs.
“We have to do the opposite of what Reagan
photo by Bill Redic
Michael S. Dukakis
has done. What makes us different is that we 
will commit more resources and not just more 
motivation. I commit myself to doubling the 
education budget,” said Jackson.
When asked what he thought of Jackson 
proposal to double the education budget, 
Dukakis replied, “Doubling the education 
budget in the face of a $170 billion deficit? I 
don’t see how you can do that.”
The debate ended a full day of campaigning 
by both candidates for today’s Pennsylvania 
Democratic primary. Polls indicate that 
Dukakis will beat Jackson by a three to one 
margin.
Televised live on KDKA-TV, the debate was _ 
moderated by Ray Tannehill, and was re­
broadcast on the C-SPAN public affairs net­
work.
By KARL BARNtiART
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The Carnegie Mellon students who expected 
to see the Democratic front-runners — the 
Rev. Jesse Jackson and Massachusetts Gover­
nor Michael Dukakis—lock horns in the Steel 
Valley Debate last Saturday night were largely 
.disappointed as the event turned out as simply 
a' Democratic roundtable.
The first series of answers of the debate 
seemed to set the tone for the evening as the 
candidates both agreed that a comprehensive 
foreign trade bill was the answer to the decay­
ing steel industry because of unfair foreign 
competition.
Speaking to an audience of 700 in a packed 
4>teel Valley High School auditorium, neither 
candidate was willing to attack the other, but 
instead attacked the Republican Party.
“We agree on a great many things. We share 
a lot of common goals and values; we happen 
to disagree on certain things. But I don’t think 
there are winners and losers here. [The debate] 
gives us an opportunity to put our best foot 
forward and state our case,” said Dukakis in a 
press conference when asked who won the 
debate.
Carnegie Mellon, as a co-sponsor with the 
Tri-State Conference on Steel and the United 
Steelworkers of America, was given 100 seats, 
75 of which went to students and student 
organizations.
In addition, the University posed one of the 
six questions and a Carnegie Mellon student 
asked another question on videotape.
The Carnegie Mellon question asked what 
the candidates would do to increase techno­
logical developments in the steel industry 
since one of the reasons frequently given for a 
trade edge by foreign nations over the U.S. is 
that other countries invest more heavily in 
research and development.
While Dukakis proposed a plan for a public/
“What makes us different is 
that we will commit more re­
sources and not just more 
motivation. I commit myself to 
doubling the education 
budget.”
— Jesse Jackson
private National Center for Steel Technology 
and Jackson proposed direct grants and tax 
incentives for research and development, both 
candidates ended up pointing to mergers and 
acquisition as the main reason that the steel 
industry is not developing.
“While there must be tax incentives and 
grants for research and development, there
photo by Bill Redic
Rev. Jesse Jackson

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—April 26,1988
FEAET URUTS.S PEAETUTa S.gT..
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Assistant News Editor
A fifth honorary degree will be awarded at 
commencement on Sunday May 15. Tae-Joon 
Park, Chairman of Pohang Iron and Steel 
Company (POSCO) has been added to the list 
of those receiving honorary degrees at this 
year’s commencement.
When the members of the Honorary Degree 
Committee met on December 4, they chose 
four candidates to receive honorary degrees. It 
was announced that these members had ac­
cepted invitations to speak at commencement.
Following an announcement by President 
Cyert that POSCO was donating $1 million to 
create the POSCO chair in the Metallurgical 
Engineering and Materials Science (MEMS) 
department, a letter was sent to members of the 
Honorary Degree Committee.
In this letter dated February 17, President 
Cyert announced that Park’s company was 
establishing a chair in MEMS, and he also 
asked that Park be awarded an honorary de­
gree.
A response card was sent along with the 
letter. President Cyert requested that the card 
be returned by March 4 so that he could present 
the nomination to the Executive Committee of 
the Board of Trustees on March 14 for ap­
proval.
On Wednesday, April 20, while on WRCT 
President Cyert was asked to respond to alle­
gations that CMU was selling honorary de­
grees. President Cyert jokingly responded that 
if people were willing to give a million dollars 
for an honorary degree, he wished he could sell 
more.
Chairman Park became President of Korean 
Tungsten Company in 1963 after retiring from 
the military as a major general. Following a 
strong belief that integrated steel works were
important to the scientific and technological 
development of Korea, he became the found­
ing president of POSCO.
Park has shown that he has strong interest in 
education. In 1976 he established the POSCO 
Educational Foundation, and in 1986 he 
started the Pohang Institute of Science and 
Technology.
Park will join a number of other distin­
guished persons when he receives his honor­
ary degree in May, including former Pennsyl­
vania Governor Richard Thornburgh, Physi­
cist Leon Lederman, economics professor 
Howard Raiffa, and playwright August 
Wilson.
photo courtesy Public Relations
Tae-Joon Park
Crime and Incident Report
4/15/88 SPECIAL 10:56 pm CMU Po­
lice responded to a call that a white male 
had pulled a fixture from a fourth floor wall 
in Morewood Gardens. The person was 
found and identified as a student. He was 
warned that a report would be filed with the 
Dean’s office. The approximate value of 
the damage was $200.
4/16/88 THEFT 1:47 am Persons un­
known removed a dark brown leather 
jacket from DU. Approximate value: $500.
4/16/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 2:48 
pm Hunt Library personnel called to report 
that a person who had been arrested on 
campus was in the Hunt Apple Orchard. He 
was identified as Fred Morgan, the person 
who was arrested several months ago for 
stealing the Andrew printer Cedar. He 
stated that he needed a Mac to type a letter 
on. He was reminded of the court’s order to 
stay off CMU property.
4/16/88 BOMB THREAT 2:56 pm 
CMU Police and MorePizza’s student 
manager received a call that a bomb was set 
to go off at 5 pm. Bomb threat procedures 
were conducted. The search was negative. 
MorePizza’s opening was delayed from 4 
pm to 5:15 pm. At 4:42 pm the caller 
phoned again to say that he didn’t mean 5 
pm, he meant 6 pm. Bell Telephone was 
contacted. A trace was completed. The 
investigation is continuing,
4/18/88 MAINTENANCE CONDI­
TION 10 am CMU police received a com­
plaint that a freight elevator cable had 
snapped in Mellon Institute. CMU police, 
CMU electricians, Pittsburgh Police, and 
medical units responded. At 10:29 am the
elevator doors were opened. No one was 
inside. The elevator serviceman was called. 
One of the four pulleys had fallen off.
4/20/88 THEFT 10:47 am Persons un­
known removed two slide projectors from a 
storage area sometime between 4/6 and 4/r-\ 
20. The approximate value is $800.
4/21/88 SPECIAL 2:28 am Campus Po­
lice received a report of smoke in the south­
east stairwell of Wean Hall. Someone had 
ignited a bottle of liquid and dropped it 
down the stairwell. The fire had extin­
guished itself.
4/21/88 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 4:04 
am While on a routine patrol an officer ^ 
found a suspicious person on patio of SEI 
removing bushes from the patio planter. He 
ran when he realized he had been discov­
ered. He was apprehended at the Pittsburgh 
National Bank on Craig Street.
4/22/88 SPECIAL 3:51 am CMU Police 
were notified that a verbal confrontation 
was in progress at the Pilam and Sigma Nu 
fraternities. CMU Police responded and 
found a large number of brothers on the *1 
patios of both fraternities. Persons un­
known from Pilam had taken Sigma Nu’s 
charter in retaliation for a broken window 
caused by a Sigma Nu alumni during Car­
nival. The Charter was returned. Both 
houses requested a meeting with Greek 
Advisor Ron Campana.
4/22/88 SPECIAL 5:28 pm CMU Police 
alerted that two females were carrying 
computer equipment to their vehicle. They 
were stopped and identified as employees. 
They were instructed to obtain proper 
removal slips in the future.
AMERICAN SCHOLASTIC 
PRESS
ASSOCIATION
Presents this
FIRST PLACE WITH SPECIAL MERIT
AWARD
to
THE TARTAN NEWSPAPER
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
School
\
Chairman, Judging Committee
SPRING, 1988
SCHOLASTIC NEWSPAPER AWARDS COLLEGES/UNIVERSITIES
ENROLLMENT: 2501 +
FIRST PLACE WITH SPECIAL MERIT DIGEST, Southern University Baton Rouge, LA 70813 OAKLAND POST, Oakland University Rochester, MI 48063 TARTAN, Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213 DAILY TAR HEEL, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, NC 27514 TANGERINE, Utica College of Syracuse Univ. Utica, NY 13502
The Tartan would like to thank and congratulate all of its Fall 1987 writers photographers, artists, 
production people, and other staff members for earning a First Place with Special Merit Award from 
the American Scholastic Press Association.
The award was granted to publications which scored over 900 points out of a possible 1000, and 
were judged to be outstanding overall examples of scholastic publications in format, content, and 
presentation. The Tartan was awarded 975 points, and was therefore ranked third in the nation 
in the category “schools with 2501 or above enrollment.”
Be a part of a winning team...write for The Tartan!

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 5
Expect a mess on east campus this fall
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
When students return in August 
they should expect to see the eastern 
portion of campus fenced-off and 
dotted with construction equipment. 
In the words of Director of Univer­
sity Planning Pat Keating, “You
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffer iter
Two unauthorized entries into 
dorm rooms over spring break have 
raised concerns that the University’s 
new room entry policy is not being 
strictly enforced.
When the residents of two More- 
wood E-tower rooms returned from 
spring break, they discovered evi­
dence that somebody had been in 
their rooms while they were away.
Freshman Carlos Rodriguez re­
ported that when he came back from 
spring break he noticed that his third 
floor room smelled strange. When 
he investigated he found that his 
refrigerator had been unplugged and 
some milk had spoiled. Rodriguez 
said that neither he nor his roommate 
unplugged the refrigerator. They
should expect to see a mess.”
The East Campus project involves 
three construction projects — a new 
dormitory and dining facility, a 
parking garage, and new athletic 
fields. Finishing the dorm by the 
beginning of the 1989 academic 
year is the highest priority. The new
assume someone came into the room 
while they were gone.
Seventh floor resident Brian Chil­
ton said that he had removed the 
screens from his window before 
spring break. When he returned he 
found that they had been replaced 
and no notification had been left. 
Chilton believes that the entry into 
his room violated the room entry 
policy negotiated between Student 
Senate and the Housing Office ear­
lier this semester.
The policy requires university 
employees to give the residents at 
least 24 hours advance notice before 
they enter a room. Under extreme 
circumstances requiring immediate 
entry the 24 hour notice is waived, 
but the University must leave the 
occupants of the room a report list-
fields will be completed last.
Sometime in May, the stadium will 
be tom down and the construction 
site will be fenced off. Access to the 
fields and long Skibo parking lot 
will be restricted.
Eventually, the level of the IM and 
Tech Fields will be nearly the same
ing the time and purpose of the entry. 
A request by a student for repairs is 
considered notice that Maintenance 
employees will be entering the 
room. Neither Rodriguez nor Chil­
ton had requested any repairs for 
their rooms.
Chilton has not yet officially com­
plained to the Housing Office and 
Rodriguez does not plan to. How­
ever, Student Senators Allen Green­
berg and Matt Ruben have raised the 
issue in the Senate. No actions have 
yet been taken.
Assistant Director of Housing for 
Residence Life Michael Murphy 
said that he had no knowledge of any 
entry into Rodriguez’s room but he 
confirmed that Chilton’s room was 
entered as part of a project to replace 
screens in dorm rooms. Murphy said 
that the Housing Office had the best 
interests of the residents at heart by 
trying to provide comfort when the 
weather becomes warmer.
He agreed that the room entry pol­
icy was violated and apologized for 
the entry saying, “we respect and 
will not violate a student’s right to 
privacy and in this case we didn’t 
uphold that. We failed to do that and 
there is no excuse for that.’
Housing Maintenance Coordina­
tor Ida Czamecki said that the screen 
replacements were done over spring 
break to avoid disturbing students in 
their rooms and that there was there­
fore no way to give advance notice. 
She felt that the action of replacing 
the screen was “a calling card” that 
Maintenance had been in the room 
and no further notice was required.
Czamecki said that if the same 
situation were to arise next year, 
“We would probably go into the 
room, put the screen back up, and 
leave the kid a note.”
height. By the end of the summer, 
however, only earth for the founda­
tion of the new dorm will have been 
moved.
The former Tech House, rather 
than a trailer, may be used as an 
office for the construction workers. 
The building eventually will be de­
stroyed so a walkway from the Hill 
dorms to the proposed University 
Center can be built.
When completed, the walkway 
will be the height of the bridge that 
currently connects Margaret Morri­
son Carnegie Hall with the stadium.
Because of the construction, the 
playground for the Children’s
School, located in the basement of 
Margaret Morrison, will be moved 
from the east to the west side of the 
building.
Construction of an extension of 
Margaret Morrison will start over 
the summer. The extension will 
house part of the College of Fine 
Arts.
The construction has not yet been 
approved by the Pittsburgh City 
Council, but it has been given the 
nod by the city planning commis­
sion. Approval is expected.
According to Keating, construc­
tion workers will try to confine most 
of the disruption to the summer.
e.UKOP 2.AO.T 0.KI.N.D 
p.UDK.D .rIS.pIi ID EN.T
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffer iter
Last month’s measles epidemic, 
which led to the vaccination of 804 
students, appears to have ended with
a total of five or six cases. Since the 
vaccinations were given, three more 
students have come down with con­
firmed cases of measles and one 
student developed symptoms which 
might have been caused by measles.
One of the students had been 
immunized on March 21 but became 
sick anyway. Measles has a 10 to 14 
day incubation period and the stu­
dent had evidently been infected 
before he received the shot.
The one suspected case is that of a 
student who became sick over 
spring break. His family doctor
made the measles diagnosis over the 
phone and no test was done. After 
spring break the Health Service 
drew blood from the student and sent 
it to the state for testing.
The results have not yet arrived 
back because the state is backlogged 
with tests from a large measles epi­
demic in the Pennsylvania Amish 
community.
Anita Barkin, Director of the 
Health Service, suspects that the 
case may turn out not to have been 
measles because it did not occur 
within 10-14 days of either the last 
known case or the vaccination. 
However, Barkin thinks that the 
epidemic is over even if the ques­
tionable case does turn out to have 
been measles.
lSP.T.Ai. OE SETp .AOTa rEKIia 6,.DOIEA.S
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Student Senate elects chairmen
Student Senators elected chairmen for the fall 1988 semester at their April 
19 meeting. Senate chairman is Erica Levy; Academic Affairs, Mark 
Steppel; Campus Affairs, Glenn Kombrek; Funding and Recognition, 
Charles Jainchill; Public Relations, Karen Pavlosky; and Rules, Matthew 
Ruben. All chairs ran unopposed and were accepted by acclamation.
Also during the meeting. Senate was required by its constitution to break 
the three-way tie for the last CFA seat. Ingred Bromberg, Marie Cole, and 
David Kyle each received six votes in the recent Student Senate elections. 
Bromberg, an art major involved in organizing the glassware protest, was 
elected.
Students place third in math contest
A team of Carnegie Mellon sophomores has placed third in the 48th annual 
William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition. The prestigious six- 
hour 12-question examination administered through the Mathematical 
Association of America was taken by more than 2,000 students last Decem­
ber.
Carnegie Mellon was represented by mathematics students Petros I. 
Hadjicostas and Joseph G. Keane and physics student Karl M. Westerberg, 
who also won an honorable mention in the 1986 competition. They placed 
behind the Harvard and Princeton teams and ahead of the University of 
California at Berkeley and M.I.T.
The top five teams and 11 highest ranking individuals receive monetary 
prizes. “The prestige value for high scorers far exceeds the money,” accord­
ing to William O. Williams, head of the Math Department.
Progress continuing on cable in dorms
The Student Dormitory Council, the Council of Fraternity Presidents, and 
the Pan-Hellenic Council are still considering a proposal to wire the 
dormitories, fraternities, and sororities with cable TV. The three groups have 
yet to respond to the proposal issued by the cable company. According to 
SDC President Chris Williams and Fraternity Housing Committee member 
Mike Frank, their groups have decided to accept the proposal, but have not 
yet responded to Director of Housing Tony Martin,
The sororities have not yet decided to accept the offer. According to Pan- 
Hellenic VP of Housing Monica Bruckner, all the sororities but one have 
decided to accept the proposal by Housing, which would charge the groups 
for the cable service through the housing fee. Bruckner stated that one 
sorority did not think it would be fair for all the sisters to be able to watch 
cable while only those living in the houses paid for the service.
Mellon completes conversion to MAC
On Monday, April 18, Mellon Bank announced that all CashStream 
machines had been replaced by MAC machines. CashStream cardholders do 
have access to the MAC network provided that their card was issued by one 
of the 146 affiliated banks which currently use CashStream and have 
decided to switch to MAC.
There were approximately 190 banks in a five state area that used
CashStream. Some banks have not yet decided whether to use MAC or a 
different network. Mellon announced the consolidation of the two networks 
in January.
SDC endorses packaging firm
The Student Dormitory Council has arranged for a packaging firm to 
provide discounts on boxes for students who ship with them at the end of this 
semester. P.k.g.’s, which sells boxes and packaging supplies, will be on 
campus during finals.
Approximately 165 students used P.k.g.’s services when they were on 
campus last spring. “From all indications, students were pleased with the 
service P.k.g.’s provided. We encouraged them to return because they are a 
reputable company,” said SDC President Chris Williams.
—Eric Leuliette, Carlos Franco, and Keven Poecking contributed to Car­
negie Mellon in Brief.

---------------------------------------------------

The
Tartan
Design
Contest
WIN $200 ENTER NOW
Next year’s Tartan is getting a new look, and you could be be the one to give it that special 
touch. We are looking for anyone who has a good sense of design and is willing to put it to 
work. We need a new masthead, and we will pay you $200 if your design is the best for us. 
And take the whole summer to work on your entry! So stop by the Tartan Office (Skibo Room 
50) before the end of the semester and pick up an official entry blank.
You can use:
or
anything else.

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 7
Minutes of the Student Senate Meeting: 4/19 ;
Present: Levy, Barros, Bromberg, Brumitt, 
Conard, de Jong, Dennis, DeVito, Evans, 
Franco, Gallo, Graupera, Greenberg, Herron, 
Jainchill, Kombrek, Lenga, Lingle, Mittel- 
hauser, Mukherjee, Neighbor, Pavlosky, 
Robitshek, Rosenblum, Ruben, Schearer, 
Steppel, Vaserstein, Zung.
Absent: Christina, Detillo, Frazier (Ex­
cused), Rao.
1. The meeting was called to order at 7:17 
pm.
1. Approval of Previous Minutes
II. Audience Participation
III. Selection of CFA Senator
2. Three CFA candidates were tied with six 
votes each. The candidates were: Ingrid
O Bromberg, Maria Cole, and David Kyle.
3. There was a short question and answer 
period directed toward the candidates, after 
which they were shooed out of the room.
4. Senate selected Ingrid Bromberg for the 
remaining seat in CFA.
5. New chairmen for the committees of the 
senate were selected. The new chairmen are: 
Chairman Erica Levy; Academic Affairs, 
Mark Steppel; Campus Affairs, Glenn 
Kombrek; Funding and Recognition, Chuck 
Jainchill; Public Relations, Karen Pavlosky; 
and Rules, Matthew Ruben.
IV. Report from Committees
a. President: Andrew Robitshek
6. He has formed nine committees for next 
year. The committees are: Retail Stores, Sen­
ior Banquet, Teacher Evaluations, Homecom-
0 ing, Faculty Advisory System, Tenure Sys­
tem, Quality of Life, Registrar’s Office, and 
SAMS.
7. Students will be on the space allocation 
board.
b. SDC: Walt Schearer
8. SDC placed second in the independent 
booths. SDC is pleased.
9. There will be a trip to Georgetown on April
23. The cost of the trip will be $10.
10. Responding to a question regarding the 
event whereby some unknown person or per­
sons vomited on the staircase of Morewood 
Gardens, SDC said that the janitorial staff or 
cleaning crew are supposed to clean things.
11. Regarding the violations of the privacy 
policy over spring break, physical plant did 
indeed try to notify room occupants via phone 
on the Friday before spring break.
12. Senator Greenberg pointed out that a 
written notification was required, or if it was 
an emergency necessitating entry to the room 
without prior written notification, then notice 
will be left in the room stating so.
13. SDC is to investigate further.
14. Senator Lenga asked about the dorm 
storming policy.
15. The vote in SDC was approximately 27 to 
12 against the motion “should SDC look into 
changing the policy”. However, Housing 
Committee will do it anyway in order to coop­
erate with Rules.
c. Chairman: Erica Levy
16. Welcomed the new senators.
17. All new senators are to inform Chairman 
Levy of their committee preferences.
d. Academic Affairs Mark Steppel
18. The Faculty Senate has unanimously 
rejected a proposal for a commercial venture 
to sell class notes.
19. The interval between the last final exams 
and when the grades are due was felt to be too 
short, in some instances as little as 12 hours. 
Faculty has agreed that it should be lengthened 
by at least one day.
20. Vaserstein wanted to know how it would
affect the students receiving their grades.
21. It was explained to Vaserstein that if the 
registrar postpones the date when grades were 
due by a day, then the postponement to the 
students receiving the grades would likewise 
also be a day.
22. The January mini semester has been 
rejected on the grounds that it would put more 
pressure on fall and spring semester since they 
will be shorter and teachers will be trying to 
cram the same or more amount of material into 
these shortened semesters.
e. Campus Affairs: Glenn Kornbrek
23. Legislation on Art Safety: required a 
stricter guideline on right to know. Reviewing 
to see if it will affect CMU’s art department.-
24. Reviewing previous accident records. 
Will be sending data out soon.
25. Will also look into Fifth Avenue pedes­
trian crossing.
26. Looking into additional locations for 
bike racks. Fred Rogers is committed to it.
f. Funding and Recognition: Tamal 
Mukherjee and Chuck Jainchill
27. The University Rowing Club was allo­
cated $2859 for use until June 30 for the 
purpose of a launch for the coach and boat 
rentals from Three Rivers Rowing Associa­
tion.
28. The University Rowing Club was also 
allocated $1470 for after July 1 for ergome- 
ters.
g. Public Relations: Karen Pavlosky
29. The election voter turnout was 14%.
30. Results of the election are posted on the 
door of A Phi O.
31. The booth went well. The booth will be 
stored at University of Pittsburgh, since there 
is someone there who has expressed an interest 
in using the booth for a marathon, polka dots
and all.
32. A suggestion box has been installed at the 
Skibo Information Desk. Two more will be 
installed in the near future in E&S and Hunt 
Library.
33. Senate T-shirts will be available between 
noon and 2 pm on April 22. Stop by the Senate 
office to purchase the shirts.
h. Rules: Allen Greenberg and Matthew ‘ 
Ruben
34. New senators were encouraged to read all 
the paper handouts/leaflets and Robert’s' 
Rules.
35. Student Senate constitutional amend­
ments were tabled.
V. Points of Discussion
36. Senator Steppel informed the new sena­
tors that it is possible to change committees 
even after they have signed up.
37. Senator Jainchill indicated that, although 
we have made the chairman of AB an ex- 
officio member of Senate, he has only showed 
up a few times, and lately, not at all.
38. AB will elect their chairman next week. 
Two people are running.
39. AB has found its constitution.
40. Senator Lenga wanted to know whether 
Maria Cole and David Kyle will be running for 
members-at-large. He was told that this will 
have to be next semester.
41. All committee chairmen were requested 
to submit to the secretary an outline of their 
reports prior to every senate meeting.
VI. Announcements
42. Senator Gallo expressed that she has got­
ten a lot out of Senate, and there is a lot out 
there for all, and that individuals do make a 
difference.
43. With no further discussion, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:50 pm.
16II NCHP EROZ EORA C$A 4R.'C44ROt.A NR.Aex 
EROZ EORA NR.Aex.
At Target Ford, we know 
how hard it is to get started finan­
cially. So here’s what we offer. If 
you’ve graduated, or will graduate, 
with a Bachelor’s or advanced degree 
between October 1,1987 and Janu­
ary 31,1989, you may qualify for 
$400 from Ford and pre-approved 
credit from Ford Motor Credit Com­
pany. To qualify for pre-approved 
credit, you need: (1) verifiable 
employment beginning within 120 
days after your vehicle purchase;
(2) a salary sufficient to cover normal 
living expenses plus a car payment;
^ COUfqf
/if* I* % ------------------------
2VHSESSI^V ^
and (3) if you have a credit record, it 
must indicate payment made as 
agreed.
The $400 from Ford is yours 
whether you finance or not. Keep it or 
apply it to the purchase or lease of an 
eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle.
For all the details, contact us or 
call Program Headquarters, toll free, 
at 1-800-321-1536.
But hurry. This limited time offer is 
only available between March 1 and 
December 31,1988. So take advan­
tage of the Ford/Mercury College 
Graduate Purchase Program now.
FORD
$400 REWARDAND THE CREDIT YOU DESERVE!
3696 Wm. Penn Hwy. 
Monroeville, PA 15146 
Phone: (412) 856-0600 
(412) 242-9900
Ford MotorCreditCompany
9EaF8 )

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Thistles and thorns
Until the University decided a 14.04° square with Bodoni Bold 
lettering better represented it, Carnegie Mellon’s logo was a shield 
garnished with a blooming thistle.
However, along with its purple flowers, the thistle is also known for 
its long, spiny thorns.
With that in mind, The Tartan editorial board has traditionally 
awarded thistles to members of the Carnegie Mellon community 
whose achievements or actions deserve special merit or recognition, 
and thorns to those whose achievements or actions...well, whose 
achievements or actions don’t deserve much of anything, except to 
be forgotten.
Our first thistle goes to the Quality of Life Committee. The 
Committee was able to identify serious problems and propose viable 
solutions. Unfortunately, that’s where it ended, so quality of life 
becomes our first double winner.
Because they have not made any changes suggested in the quality 
of life report, the administration gets a long, sharp thorn.
The second double award winner is Student Senate. Senate gets a 
thistle for passing a resolution to name the dormitory after Judy 
Resnik, and a thorn for tackling non-issues and tabling real issues.
President Richard Cyert, though, came out the big winner. Cyert 
deserves thistles for saving the senior banquet, for promising to 
extend Entropy’s hours, for extending the Gym’s hours, and for 
standing behind the students who were arrested by the Liquor 
Control Board (LCB) in the raid on November 21, 1987.
Speaking of the raid, the LCB gets a thorn just for being the LCB.
Carnival, a perennial winner, didn’t let us down again this year. 
Thistles go to the Sweepstakes Committee for reopening the course 
and to the Carnival Committee for another outstanding carnival, 
despite the weather.
Believe it or not, we voted to give the administration two thistles. 
The first is for the smoking policy and the second is for co-sponsoring 
the debate between Democratic hopefuls Michael Dukakis and Jesse 
Jackson — in particular, John Fedele and the offices of Public 
Relations and Government Relations receive the honor.
It has been a long time since the Activities Board (AB) has done 
anything to deserve a thistle, but AB Dance has turned itself around 
and is now sponsoring well-attended, well-publicized dances.
On the other hand. Physical Plant gets thorns for the way it handled 
the blackouts this semester and for the continued leaks in the E&S 
Library. Keep it up guys and somebody’s going to get hurt.
The next thistle goes to the Retail Stores Committee for getting a 
15% student discount on textbooks next year and working to upgrade 
the service and selection of the other retail stores.
Back to the thorns, MCS receives a unanimous thorn for their 
insidious 7:30 am exams, as does GSIA for putting trailers in the CFA 
amphitheater.
While we’re on CFA, Dean Akram Midani gets two awards: a thorn 
for destroying the fibres program and threatening the glass program 
and a thistle for stepping down as Dean at the end of next year.
A thistle goes to newly re-elected Student Government President 
Andy Robitshek. He has been able to accomplish a lot in one year, 
and we expect a lot more next year. Just remember, Andy, you 
promised “Another year — continued results;” we’ll be watching.
The Athletic Department gets a thistle for the new $100,000 track, 
but it also gets a thorn for having it installed only to be tom up one 
short year later because of the east campus construction.
Because of their protest of the parking garage, we award the 
Squirrel Hill community a thorn — make that a whole wall of thorns.
MorePizza gets a thistle for starting their delivery service; maybe 
next year we can give them one for their pizza.
Another thistle goes to WRCT for getting President Cyert to do 
three question and answer shows over the academic year. We hope 
they keep it up next year.
Academic Computing gets a thorn for broken Andrew worksta­
tions, outdated software, and poor documentation.
The Trustees get two thistles. The first is for being committed to 
building the University Center and and the second is for inviting 
students to their fall meeting at Greenbrier.
The Registrar’s Office gets a particularly sharp thorn for scheduling 
registration for the same week as Carnival. Do you think you could 
pick a week when student’s are more busy? We didn’t think so.
The Allegheny County Health Dept, and the Health Center receive 
a joint thistle for their quick response to the measles epidemic.
Another thistle goes to the Inter Fraternity Council (IFC) for giving 
ATO social probation after the ATO/DU fight on pledge night. It’s 
about time.
Here’s a paradox: Allen Greenberg receives a thistle for raising 
student activism but he also gets a thorn for going too far.
Our last thistle goes to seniors Bruce Kasrel, John Friedmann, Mark 
Bcnish, and Neil Greenblum for all the time and work they put into 
t he Tartan over the last four years. We’re going to miss them.
SrNNrF2m
1,gga 2PUIT iEprKUIAD E9 iEN.TUg.
Editor:
This letter is in response to a 
Tartan article which I found totally 
misinformed and to the set of buggy 
articles. First off, I have always felt 
that the Spring Carnival issue of The 
Tartan should be much larger (espe-. 
daily the buggy section). Spring 
Carnival is the one weekend out of 
the year that this university acts as 
one. This year’s Spring Carnival 
insert again managed to make buggy 
sound like just another event. But, it 
is more than that. Buggy is one area 
where this school is unique. The 
thousand or so students who partici­
pate and all the alumni who watch 
buggy are an indication of its impor­
tance to CMU. This Sweepstakes 
marked many amazing occurrences 
including those mentioned by The 
Tartan. Here are some others: the 
Kappa Alpha Theta team came 
within .3 seconds of breaking what 
many though was an unbreakable 
Spirit’s women’s record, the sixth 
place women’s time this year was 6 
seconds better than any other year’s 
6th place women’s time, and maybe 
most importantly was that this 
Sweepstakes marked the best buggy 
run ever. Allow me to clarify why:
8.pETIUK IAD,99IiI.AO IA 
iEpp.pETUOIAg m.DAI»
Editor:
My thanks and congratulations to 
all involved in establishing the Ju­
dith Resnik memorial on campus. It 
is a tangible sign of the intangible 
pride we all feel in being able to 
count such an adventurer among us.
Yet I must take issue with the form
8,AiP 9Ig,T. 
IprTEr.T 9ET 
WSo iUTOEEA
Editor
Your cartoonist might have dealt 
with the issue of dorm-storming just 
as effectively without lifting an 
image from Edvard Munch’s “The 
Scream” or “The Cry” or “The 
Shriek” (April 19). Munch was por­
traying the deep inescapable horror 
of modem urban life. It does seem a 
bit exaggerated to invoke his cata­
strophic vision when considering 
the storm over dorm storming. I 
don’t like seeing The Tartan join in 
the now widespread debasing of 
great artistic images.
Richard L. Schoenwald 
Professor of History
of this memorial. It is a large brass 
Tau Beta Pi Engineering Society 
bent. While it is pleasing to the eye, 
it does not sufficiently represent Ms. 
Resnik’s achievements, nor her rela­
tionship with this university. It is 
true that Judith Resnik was an engi­
neer. She was also, however, a clas­
sical pianist, and a religious woman. 
Were CFA to erect a brass piano in 
her honor, or Hillel a large Mogen 
David to “a Jew who died as she 
lived — reaching for the sky,” eye­
brows would be raised. The focus on 
Resnik the Engineer is rather nar­
row, considering the hundreds of 
non-engineers who pass by the 
memorial each day. (Were the 
memorial installed in the 1100corri­
dor of Hamerschlag Hall, I might 
consider myself on shaky ground.)
One need not be an engineer to be 
an astronaut, and one need not be an 
engineer to be inspired by and to 
mourn for a sister who died in the 
service of her country. More fitting 
would be a memorial in the shape of 
a star- perhaps a three-dimensional 
version of the star so beautifully 
rendered on the signs announcing 
the memorial’s dedication.
T. VanderHeyden
(1) the 3 people who worked with me 
(Chris Hansen, Tricia DeMarco and 
Phil Tubesing) were the best that this 
campus has to offer, (2) the chair 
men of each organization provided 
their competitiveness with a touch 
of friendship and togetherness. Sure 
there are still intensive rivalries, but 
these chairmen and the members of 
their organizations pulled together 
as never seen on a race day to help 
dry the course. Josh Ruben [Tartan 
Sports Editor] can ask “Are we hav­
ing fun yet??” and he can question 
the need for such competitiveness. 
But maybe Josh is one those indi­
viduals at CMU who will never 
understand and should never under­
stand what “Buggy Fever” is. 
Maybe Josh doesn't understand the 
feeling of accomplishment that ev­
ery buggy person gets after race day. 
Here’s one individual saying that 
buggy was easily the best experi­
ence that CMU offered me in my 6 
years (grad and undergrad) and that 
I will miss all those cold, crazy 
mornings and nights. One finalnote, 
I do want to thank everyone who 
showed their patience with the 
weather and stayed to watch the 
most exciting buggy ever. I hope it 
was worth it.
Gino Cosentino
1988 Sweepstakes Chairman
dT..A0.Tg 
,rD.O 0a 
.SIOETIUK
Editor:
While reading last week’s Tartan 
editorial “Working together we get 
things done,” regarding actions of 
the Student Senate Rules Commit­
tee and the body as a whole, I could 
not help but believe that the editors 
knew nothing about the subject they 
were addressing. I will therefore 
outline the misconceptions that lead 
continued on paj*e 11

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Living the high life I Last week ThetaXi, Delta Delta Delta, 
and Kappa Alpha Theta got together to sit on a pole and raise money 
for charity. Above, CMU President Richard Cyert takes his stint on 
the pole; Channel 11 Anchor Edye Tarbox clowns with Theta Xi 
brother Brian Battaglia; spectators look up at the pole; and Theta 
Xi Litte Sisters sponsor a Pie-in-the-Face to raise extra dollars.
60 Seconds runs out: “Au revoir, CMU
tiny clubs and thinking, “We need a drummer 
with a more interesting name than Pete,” and 
about to become international celebrities with 
the help of Ed Sullivan, and here I am in my 
last two weeks of college in the end of the 
Eighties, sitting in a windowless cubicle 
wondering if I’m going to graduate so that I 
can take a job working forty hours a week and 
buy a remote-control Home Entertainment 
System with Cable TV so that when I want to 
watch television, I can miss all five nights of 
“Rich Man, Poor Man” just trying to decide 
what channel to turn to. Plus, my chances of 
becoming an international superstar are virtu­
ally nil, because Ed Sullivan is dead and 
Johnny Carson’s audience has shrunk to the 
size of an AB dance.
What am I trying to say here? I think it has 
something to do with the nature of higher 
education. As we all know, the “higher” in 
higher education refers to the price, while the 
“education” refers to what you learn while 
you’re here, which is that maybe you would 
have been better off spending the sixty thou­
sand dollars on guitars and drums than on 
developing an ulcer and a facial twitch. How­
ever, you would then be in danger of having 
swooning women (or men) collapsing with 
alarming regularity at your feet who then have 
to be swept up like the hair on the floor of a 
barbershop, except that.the bodies are still
attached.
But what am I trying to say here? I think it has 
something to do with money. After all, that’s 
why we’re here, right? That’s why we made 
the “Professional Choice.” To give away 
money to a lot of professionals for four years. 
But seriously, we’re here to learn to earn. Face 
it, if we hadn't come here, we couldn’t have 
earned a quarter washing windshields at traffic 
lights. (Fortunately, the Social Sciences de­
partment course “Annoying Street Pandering
Methods 101” prepares us for this extremely 
well.) How does Carnegie Mellon really en­
able us to earn lots-o-bucks later in life? 
Frankly, I don’t really know. All CMU has 
taught me is how to say, “Can I hand it in late?” 
and how to mainline caffeine.
But what am I really trying to say here? I 
think it must have something to do with sex. In 
a True Related Anecdote, John Lennon, while 
on tour with the Beatles, once stuck his head 
out of his, seventh-story hotel room window
and was greeted by the sound of cheers and 
screams and the sight of thousands of convuls­
ing female fans. He tied together several bed 
sheets, hung them from the window, and an­
nounced at the top of his voice, “Whoever 
climbs up here can have me.” One girl climbed 
up and yes, she had him. And John Lennon 
didn’t even attend CMU! Just think what he 
could have done if he had. Probably he could 
have stuck his head out of a window and said 
“Whoever climbs up here can have me,” and
then he probably could have been greeted by 
the eerie, hollow sound of his own echoing 
voice and the sight of tumbleweeds blowing 
across an empty, arid landscape. He probably 
would have paid sixty thousand dollars to do it. 
too.
What I am trying to say is that after this next 
couple of weeks, a lot of people who have been 
here for years, including myself, will be gone, 
and it's hard not to be sentimental about it. And
continued on page 15
“He tied together several bed sheets, hung them from 
the window, and announced at the top of his voice, 
‘Whoever climbs up here can have me.’ One girl 
climbed up and yes, she had him.”
It is interesting to think that when the Beatles 
were my age, they already had hundreds of 
Liverpool women falling in dead faints at their 
£)feet every night. Not that I’d want hundreds of 
Liverpool women falling at my feet every 
night. That means I’d have to be in Liverpool.
60 SecondsWITH BOB GLICKSTEIN
Pittsburgh women will do just fine. And 
“hundreds” wouldn’t be necessary. A couple 
of dozen would be nice, though. Or maybe five 
or six. How about just one? Anybody?
Anyway, there they were in the very begin-
• i ningofthej^ixties playing rack-p-.rpjliriusic in

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—April 26,1988
Tell her you noticed
Dear Specs,
If you notice a girl you are friendly with has 
lost weight, is it proper to tell her or will some 
girls be offended that you noticed in the first 
place?
—Weight Watc^r
Dear Weight Watcher,
Tell her. But don’t just use the old cliche 
“You-look-great-you-lost-weight.” Be more
lD»
by Sara Flynn
sincere. Try something along these lines: 
“Did you lose tons of weight? You look so 
much better. I bet I could afford to take you out 
to dinner now that you’re cutting down on the 
old intake.”
“Suzy! If you lose any more weight you 
won’t be able to borrow Oprah Winfrey’s 
clothes.”
“You look like the poster child for Abortion. 
So scraggly, haggard and thin.”
“Way to go, Lucy! Only 20 or 30 more 
pounds and you’ll look great.”
“Hi Butterball! Been grazing less? It sure 
shows around the edges.”
“Hey, I’m glad to see you’ve taken up ano­
rexia or bulimia for recreation. It’s about 
time.”
—Specs
Dear Specs,
I can’t find a girlfriend. Nobody likes me. 
I’m sick of being pals with every girl I’m 
attracted to.
—Ed
Dear Ed,
Opt for monastic life. It’s very chic right now 
to be a “Dating Martyr.” Lots of people have 
given up the pleasures of the flesh for a higher 
good. Think about God or your country as you 
spend Friday night at home watching TV. Not 
only will this make you feel noble it will also 
save you from innumerable worries. Diseases 
your friends have (syphilis, gonorrhea, herpes 
simplex 4, etc.) they can keep to themselves 
while you maintain good health. You don’t 
have to lie awake in fear that you’re being 
invaded by deadly germs if you sleep alone. 
And just think, you’re not the only “Dating 
Martyr” on campus. All the students you see 
wearing all black are part of the organization 
that Renounces The Garden of Earthly De­
lights.
—Specs
Dear Specs,
I’m in love with my English teacher. What 
should I do?
—Crush
Dear Crush,
Ask him or her to discuss “The Oedipus 
Complex — How It Works For Me” after 
school sometime. If you don’t feel comfort­
able with Freud, read Lolita or Faulkner’s 
Sanctuary and stop by his/her office in a state 
of undress begging for knowledge about the 
text. You might want to precede “knowledge” 
with “carnal” in conversation for more imme­
diate results.
—Specs
Dear Specs,
I like this guy, but he has a girlfriend, but if 
he didn’t I think he’d like me. Is there anything 
I can do?
—Hopelessly Devoted 
continued on page 15
wOUIT8UIa e9KAAAD 2WA8IppDpA
Te gaI111
» have attended at least four 
Thursday Films this year
• are familiar with classic, artistic 
and foreign films
~ Please leave your name and 
where you can be contacted at the 
Skibo Information Desk by Thursday 
April 28
2US.OD NIDIO lAST.RD ls1
By ANDREW BUCKINGHAM
Special to The Tartan
CMU’s Air Force ROTC Detachment 
was again quite active last month as several 
of the cadets participated in a visit to An­
drews Air Force Base in Camp Springs, 
Maryland, just outside of Washington, 
D.C.
The group of cadets left for Andrews AFB 
on the morning of Thursday, March 10 and 
arrived later that evening. On Friday morn­
ing, a few cadets took a helicopter tour of 
D.C. while the rest took a tour of the base, 
which is the headquarters of Air Force 
Systems Command. Systems Command is 
responsible for research, development, 
testing, evaluation, and contracting for the 
production of Air Force weapons systems.
Throughout the day, the cadets enjoyed 
inexpensive meals at the base and used 
their free time to explore the base facilities, 
such as the exchange, the commissary, the 
theater, and the gym. That evening the 
cadets were welcomed to the Andrews 
Officers ’ Club with a reception followed by 
dinner and dancing to the sounds of a live 
band. All were impressed by the luxurious­
ness of the club and recognized further the 
privileges of being an officer in the United 
States Air Force.
Saturday morning started off with a So­
viet Awareness Briefing at Bolling AFB, a 
few miles into D.C. The briefing was an in­
formative description of the Soviet military 
standpoint as affected by the Soviet mind­
set and their long history of invasion by 
neighboring enemies. The students were all 
startled when the captain who was conduct­
ing the briefing introduced them to a colo­
nel in the Soviet Army so that they could 
hear the Russian side from a Russian. The 
colonel was a terribly bold and arrogant 
man with a sharp Russian accent who con­
stantly harangued the ROTC cadets and 
chided them whenever they neglected to 
answer his questions. His arguments were 
concise from the Soviet standpoint, and 
backed by much factual information. Fur­
thermore, he was quick to strike down any 
rebuttal from the cadets. Finally, the colo­
nel ended his briefing by westernizing his 
accent and revealing his true identity as a 
captain in the U.S. Air Force. This sur­
prised most of the cadets, but some had 
caught on to his game during the briefing. 
His purpose in disguising himself thus was 
to explain from a Russian point of view 
why the Soviet military force is so ridicu­
lously immense. The simplest reason is that 
they are determined never to be invaded 
again. The job of the USAF officers who 
conducted the briefing is to gain as much 
information as possible about every facet of 
the Soviet Union in order to make an accu­
rate assessment of their strengths, weak­
nesses, and military strategy.
Hard cover or Paperback-whether used on this campus or not. We buy all titles having resale market value!BAKER HALLCARNEGIE-MELLON CELL THFM ATUNIVERSITY *may 3 W 4 THE BOOKSTORE10:00 AM - 4:00 PM MAY 5 10:00 AM ~ 6:30 PM MAY 6, 9 S 10 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM
vlo g

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page
yPE,KS tUi»DEA 0.iEp. E,T A.nO hT.DIS.AOG yea UAS nay
Well-guided money, mis-guided mgmt.
By RUSS COOPER
Jesse Jackson is now fashioned one of three 
contenders, and he should be put to the 
scrutiny that such a position dictates. Up to 
now, critics have based their displeasure for 
the man on incidents that they believe reflect 
character and philosophy. These include Cas­
tro, Syria, the PLO, his attitudes towards Is­
rael, and his unique 
foreign policy per­
spective in general.
But these are only 
abstract. They are 
not important for his claim to the presidency. 
They are mistakes of judgement of which all 
politicians, regardless of race, sex, or party, 
are guilty. He, like others, should be given a 
second chance. Besides, all of these problems 
involve foreign policy and politics. From the 
past it seems evident that when this nation is 
not at war, the only real and significant issues 
in the election are those of domestic and eco­
nomic policy. This is the playing field. It is 
here that the record, not the rhetoric, of Jesse 
Jackson, has plenty of questions to answer.
First, Jackson has advocated many different 
new roles for the government in industry and 
agriculture. He supports licensing of firms for 
the purposes of regulating their abilities to 
relocate, change labor practices, or do busi­
ness in parts of the world. He has mentioned 
similar government “support” for agriculture 
as well. Most alarming is his call for a govern­
ment agency to monitor and regulate mergers 
and acquisitions. All this is absurd. Leave the 
running of American business to itself. The 
government already plays too large, and inef­
ficient, a role already.
Jackson also would like the government to 
take 10% of the private pension funds and 
invest them in low-income housing and other 
activities to help the poor. Nobody questions 
his good intentions, but these are private funds 
that belong to individuals. They are not for the 
use of Jesse Jackson’s personal political 
agenda, or of any other politician for that 
matter. The question lingers as to whether or 
not the government can properly run Social 
Security. We should not start trusting them 
now with our personal retirement funds.
Raising the minimum wage above $5.00 will 
have a devastating effect upon the labor mar­
ket in this country. Jackson’s support for this 
measure will only hurt the constituency which 
he claims to want to help. It will temporarily 
displace millions of workers in the lower end
T6oIpFp6d wp682m
of the labor market. They will eventually be 
rehired at the new wages, but no new jobs will 
magically appear. Their real wages will stay 
the same, and all that will be left are higher 
prices and inflation. One may criticize if they 
like the Reagan administration’s role in the 
increasing fiscal deficits, but its record 
against inflation and unemployment are im­
peccable. One should not try to fix that which 
is not broken.
The Jackson campaign has strongly pro­
nounced its support for affirmative action. 
Without getting into the moral question of 
this policy, let me simply say that it is widely 
regarded as economically inefficient. Pass­
ing up more qualified individuals for those 
who may be less qualified for a social purpose 
makes no sense from an economic, free- 
market perspective. Individually it may seem 
of little consequence, but in the aggregate it 
may effect our productivity as a working 
nation.
Next is his desire to have the government 
supply medical insurance for every citizen 
from the day he is bom to the day he dies. 
Again, nobody is questioning his humanity 
(or the political savvy of delivering such a 
message), but in the frankest economic 
terms, who will pay this monstrous bill?
In the economic comeback of the decade, 
Great Britain (with apologies to Mike 
Dukakis and Massachusetts) seems still 
deeply burdened by its social medicine, 
which is consuming an ever larger part of 
their government’s budget. With this insight, 
we should never even enter such a fiscally 
dangerous path. A similar case could be made 
for Jackson’s desire for federally sponsored 
daycare across the nation.
With the inclusion of higher taxes for the 
largest wage earners in this country, 
Jackson’s economic plan seems like a social­
ist redistribution of wealth in the guise of 
humane treatment for the vast array of differ­
ent parts of the population he courts. Jesse 
Jackson says he just doesn’t want to manage 
Reaganomics, he wants to overturn them. 
One has to wonder whether he can manage 
Reaganomics or Jacksonomics. He continu­
ally points his finger at the White House for 
fiscal mis-management of our country’s tril­
lion dollar budget. Concerning his only expe­
rience as a chief executive, Operation Push, 
government auditors are still searching for 
1.2 of the 14 million dollars in federal money 
that can’t be accounted for.
uPa R. DPE,KS NEO. 9ET tUi»DEA
By MICHAEL FRANZINI &
MICHAEL WITBROCK
The candidacy of Jesse Jackson represents a 
significant milestone in the growth of this 
nation. Not only does it demonstrate a poten­
tial role of blacks in government which 
would have been unthinkable thirty years 
ago, it represents the empowerment of seg­
ments of society 
which previously 
had led a mute exis­
tence in the shadow 
of the majority. 
Jesse Jackson has given a political voice to 
Americans who, for reason of class, race, 
gender, or sexual orientation, have been de­
nied one in the past. But Jackson brings more 
than minority representation to the campaign 
for the democratic nomination, he brings the 
potential for real change: A substantial 
change in foreign and domestic policies, a 
willingness to veer farther from the mislaid 
paths of recent history than the disguised 
conservativism of Michael Dukakis.
In foreign policy, Jackson offers a new uni­
fied vision of human rights which would as­
sess our adversaries, or allies, and ourselves 
on the same scale. He offers a new view of the 
world, unconstrained by the obsessive para­
noia of containment which has determined 
foreign policy for all but four of the past forty 
years. Like his competitor, Jackson would 
relieve America of its seven years’ war 
against communism. However, Jesse would 
go further: He would recognize Cuba and re­
store diplomatic ties with Nicaragua. 
Jackson would transform the world role of 
the U.S. from that of a heavy handed enforcer 
to that of a civil participant in world relations.
At home, Jackson would demand an end to 
the “economic violence” of recent years. He 
would put an end to the policies of Re­
aganomics which, he explains, redistribute 
the money from the poor to the rich. He 
would restore the pre-Reagan ceiling on 
personal income tax of 38.5 per cent, pulling 
in 20 billion more tax dollars without affect­
ing 99.8% of the population, and he would 
require big business to support a reasonable 
portion of the tax burden.
Jackson would put this extra tax money to 
good use, finally removing from poor and 
elderly Americans the fear of facing sickness 
without the means to pay for health care. He 
points out that his is not a radical idea; the 
United States and Souffi Africa are the only
The only final exam worth taking
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
An academic year has come to a close. Dur­
ing these nine months of higher education/hell 
you’ve seen it all, from leafleters to embez­
zling department heads. What have you actu­
ally learned from all this? We’ve put together 
this end-of-the-year 
quiz to test your 
newfound knowl­
edge.
What does it take to
get a diploma from Carnegie Mellon?
A) $60, 000 and four years
B) $0 and a hook shot
C) $1.95 and three box tops from Fruity 
Pebbles
D) $ 1,000,000 and a Korean steel company 
What does the LCB do?
A) Enforce the state liquor laws
B) Enforce the city fire codes
C) Wait around for Channel 11 to show up
D) Give the Port Authority Transit a lot of 
business
What was Diskette Day?
A) The first football game for 2000 hackers
B) A public relations coup
C) The first time your friends ever heard of 
Carnegie Mellon
D) Very embarrassing 
What is Bill Elliot’s job?
A) Vice President of Admissions
B) Replacing every person who leaves
C) Everything
D) Keeping Cyert off of the tennis courts 
What does Student Senate do?
A) Publish silly minutes
B) Provide Allen Greenberg a forum to 
babble about anything he wants
C) Insist that everyone write Funded By 
Student Senate on their posters
D) Very little
What is causing all of the problems in CFA?
A) Unsafe studios
B) Elimination of classes
C) Higher priced black clothing
D) Pittsburgh’s new smoking ordinance 
When will the Master Plan be started?
A) After we receive $25 million for a new
University Center
B) After the City of Pittsburgh approves the 
thing
C) After we graduate
D) After we’re all dead
What is the final fate of Tech House?
A) The new location of Scotland Yard
B) The temporary University Center
C) The new University Center
D) The wrecking ball
What were the effects of dry rush?
A) No freshmen at fraternity parties
B) No LCB at fraternity parties
C) No alcohol at fraternity parties
D) None of the above
Why is everybody resigning?
A) Because GE pays better
B) Because the women at Georgia Tech are 
better looking
C) Because they were asked to resign or quit
D) Because President Cyert isn’t
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine and C. Wil­
liams
countries in the developed world without su 
a national health plan. He is the only candidi 
who fully supports guaranteed health care 1 
every citizen.
Although Dukakis considers himself an av 
supporter of civil rights for all Americans, 
seems hardly more disposed than Bush t 
wards acting to ensure them. Jackson’s su 
port base has grown from a gathering togetf 
of the dispossessed, forming the Rainbc 
coalition. Jackson is the only candidate w 
does not compromise on the right of all Ame 
cans to pursue happiness. While Dukakis v 
toed a Massachusetts state bill allowing ado 
tion by qualified gay and lesbian paren 
Jackson would legislate to recognize that; 
Americans, gays and lesbians included, ha 
the right to form family units and to receive t 
accompanying federal benefits.
Although the Jackson campaign has be* 
unable to bridge the chronic rift between it ai 
the Jewish electorate, Jackson in fact er 
braces the concerns of Jewish America 
more than any other candidate. He has loi 
been a vociferous supporter of secure borde 
for Israel as well as a Palestinian homeland. I 
met with Arafat to assert the importance 
these goals — not to embrace the leader, 
opponents have claimed. When Reagan m 
with Gorbachev, Jackson stepped forward 
spotlight the issue of the right of Soviet Je\ 
to emigrate. When Reagan first announced Y 
plan to visit Bitburg, Jackson immediate 
condemned the visit.
Perhaps most importantly, Jackson is a fror 
line participant who motivates people ar 
brings about changes. He has motivated 
massive segment of the population to join tl 
electorate. His powerful and eloquent orator 
unlike the substanceless image of the acto 
president, can move large numbers into actio 
The cogent and pragmatic ideas behind th 
oratory can ensure that the action has meanin 
Jackson can unite Americans, who have livt 
for nearly two decades without a cause, behii 
a new world view, a view which fully reco; 
nizes the rights and responsibilities of a 
human beings. Vote for Jesse Jackson.
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief..............................Karl Barnha
Managing Editor...........................Erika Petersc
Business Manager........................Russ Seligma
News Editor..............................Eric W. Leuliet
Assistant News Editor.............Carlos H. Frant
Features Editors........................Judy Haraburd
Howdy Piert
Sports Editor.........................................Josh Rube
Assistant Sports Editor.........Natalie Hawrylu
Diversions Editor..............................Michael Ro*
Photo Assignment Editor...............Andy Gillesp
Photo Darkroom Editor...............Albrecht Powe
Art Editor  ..........................Grant Carmicha>
Literary Editor.........................Michele Oshero
Advertising Manager...............Dustin L. Fra/.it
Copy Editor...................................David N. Le\
Contributing Editors................................................
Bruce Kasrel Neil (ireenblum
Drue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann Stewart Levine
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon Universi 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday duri< 
the (all and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the univers 
community. It is printed by Typecraft Press, Inc Subscriptions a 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year The Editorial appearit 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of Tt 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual autho 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff Lette 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usua 
members of the University community A letter intended for publicatx 
must be signed and include the writer s address and phone number f 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request Th* Tartan r 
serves the right to condense or retect any letter or column. Copyrig 
© 1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the right 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publicationOffice: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—April 26, 1988
SrNNrF2. sa6N1
wPE,gPOD EA 2KI99.G m.US.TD T.DrEAS OE Uii,DUOIEAD E9 ISIEia
Editor:
In Mr. Zahn’s letter last week, he refers to 
Cliffe as an idiot. Interesting... yet, a rather in­
effective manner in which to get a point across.
Before I go on, I would like to distance 
myself from Cliffe by informing you that 
though I have heard of the man, I have never 
actually seen him in person. Therefore, the 
intent of this letter is not to defend him or 
anything he may have said. The intent, Mr. 
Zahn, is to dispute the method of reasoning 
used in your letter, react to one of your state­
ments, and present you with some questions.
You obviously pride yourself in how logi­
cally you are able to look at a situation. I must 
admit your arguments can be somewhat con­
vincing though certainly not very conclusive 
and definitely not very original. Many others 
with the same eagerness to disprove some­
thing take your same circular, non-conclusive 
approach when discussing ideas about which 
they know little. That is, when nothing conclu­
sive can be contributed to a discussion, but one 
desires to remain part of it, the approach is to 
take some relatively unimportant aspect stem­
ming from the main idea, interpret what this 
means, theorize what the new thought might 
imply, predict what this “derived” hypotheti­
cal implication would cause, and conclude 
something silly like “and that goes against all 
‘we’ (i.e. the majority of the scientific and/or 
literary community) have ever really ac­
cepted.” One may then dismiss the entire 
original discussion based on “thorough” 
analysis using the “scientific method.” After
simply because you have 
not read or experienced some­
thing, you cannot conclude it 
is not taking place.'
this “complete” analysis, one may once again 
find comfort from fellow unbelieving com­
rades with a “we showed them” pat on the 
back.
Pardon me for saying so, Mr. Zahn, but your 
approach for disproving God is no better than 
many Christians who, in both past and present 
times, have ¦ 
tried to 
prove the ex­
istence of 
God based 
on the con- 
s e n t i n g
opinions of ________________________
others. Now
you, and many others, “prove” the non-exis­
tence of God by pointing to philosophers (as 
you do) and other highly respected “intellectu­
als” and saying that if God were true, these 
“great” people would have found out about it 
and told you. What you do not seem to realize, 
Mr. Zahn, is that simply because you or your 
peers have not read or experienced something, 
you cannot conclude it is not taking place. You 
are certainly too logical to disagree that God 
could exist without you knowing or experienc­
ing, or more correctly, realizing it. Neverthe­
less, your approach suggests some ultimate 
importance of your opinion for us all.
This leads me to react to you stating how you 
would respond to someone asking you “if 
YOU saw with YOUR own eyes Jesus walk­
ing on the water would YOU believe in God?” 
You said you would reply, (and I quote) “yes”.
yiI.AOI9Ii IA6,ITa ID UA 
IprETOUAO rUTO E9 OP.EKEga
Editor:
I was intrigued by Richard Stansbury Zahn, 
Jr.’s, letter to The Tartan (19 April) in which 
he attempted to demonstrate “why Cliffe was 
an idiot.” I did not hear Cliffe when he spoke 
on campus and have no desire to defend his 
particular version of Christianity (though 
under any circumstances I am hesitant to label 
anyone an “idiot”). At the same time, while I 
suspect my sympathies lie with Mr. Zahn, I 
want to take issue with what appeared to be 
two presuppositions of his critique.
First, I strongly agree with Mr. Zahn that 
assertion of the existence of God is not open to 
either proof or disproof by means of logic. Nor 
is such an assertion open to verification or 
falsification in relation to empirical experi­
ence. Yet, I would not ground faith in God’s 
existence on simply an “emotional willing­
ness to believe.”
So far as I know there is no such thing as a 
belief in God in general. Belief in God seems 
always to be belief in a particular sort of God. 
Given the assertion of the existence of a God 
with specific attributes, there seems to me to 
be plenty of opportunity to assess the logical 
coherence of those attributes and their conso­
nance with human experience.
For example, one might claim that God is 
omniscient in such a way as to know the future 
as if it were the past. At the same time one 
could assert that human beings are free in some 
real sense to choose the course of their lives. 
But taken together these two statements con­
stitute a logical inconsistency.
One could avoid such an inconsistency by 
arguing that human freedom is an illusion and 
so the assertion of divine foreknowledge is 
unchallenged. But such an argument seems 
contradicted by our experience both personal 
and “scientific”; that is, we seem to make real 
decisions as we live our lives and the physical 
world (according to at least one interpretation 
of quantum mechanics) seems to be undeter­
mined by the causal past Freedom or indeter­
minacy seem to be inherent in our world.
This is just a long way to say that both logic 
and empirical experience are relevant to theo­
logical claims although neither can establish 
or rule out the existence of God.
The second point I want to make is that Mr. 
Zahn overstates himself when he declares that 
“trying to make science and religion fit 
together...warps them both beyond recogni­
tion.” I agree that to reduce religion to no more 
than a political, economic, sociological, psy­
chological, biological, chemical, and/or 
physical phenomenon is to distort religion. 
Similarly, I agree that to require the findings of 
science to adhere to particular theological 
claims (as in so-called “creation science”) is to 
distort science. But it is a distortion of Western 
history to claim that science and religion have 
not had or do not have mutually constructive 
impacts on one another.
A persuasive argument has been made that 
certain theological ideas developed in Juda­
ism, Christianity, and Islam (e.g., the contin­
gency of the world) encouraged an empirical 
study of nature and so the emergence of mod­
ern science. Reciprocally, developments 
within science (e.g., geology and biology) 
have had a substantive impact on how the 
affirmation of God as creator is to be under­
stood.
I would go further to assert that religion is not 
a form of primitive pre-science although relig­
ions do seek to contribute to humanity’s un­
derstanding of itself and the world. Nor is 
science a rival religion although some people 
have viewed science religiously and held sci­
entific theories as sources of ultimate mean­
ing. In the West, science and religion (espe­
cially, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam) have 
been, perhaps, the two most fundamental, 
mutually-interacting forces shaping our cul­
ture.
Again, let me say that I have sympathy for 
Mr. Zahn’s concern that religious matters not 
be treated. But I would urge him to consider 
more thoroughly the complexity of the cul­
tural dynamics which are shaping our under­
standing of the meaning of our lives.
Jim Miller
Director, United Campus Ministry of Pgh
I am sorry, Mr. Zahn, but I can say with a great 
deal of confidence, though with an equal 
amount of sadness, that should all the circum­
stances transpire as you describe, you would 
not say “yes” but in fact would say “no”. You 
see, Mr. Zahn, in all probability, you would see 
Jesus walking on the water at the same time all
of your unbe- 
1 i e v i n g 
friends see 
the same 
thing. One by 
one you 
would con-
________________________ vince each
other that
some trick had been played on you. You would 
eventually walk away saying something like, 
“What a strange happening. And I almost
thought it was real. Lucky for me my friends
were around. I almost believed what I saw!” 
Think about it!!!
Jesus speaks of this when He says, “if they do 
not listen to Moses and the Prophets, they will 
not be convinced even if someone rises from 
the dead” (Luke 16:31). Also, Mr. Zahn, I 
would warn you not to wait too long for a sign. 
Jesus also says “Why does this generation ask 
for a miraculous sign? I tell you the truth, no 
sign will be given to it” (Mark 8:12). He 
continues by saying “I praise you, Father, Lord
of heaven and earth, because you have hidden 
these things from the wise and learned, and 
revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, 
for this was your good pleasure” (Luke 10:21).
If any weight is to be put to the Bible (and 
many people do), then we must be careful how 
“wise and learned” we become. We could be­
come so “wise and learned” that the “Truth” 
slips right by us!
I believe miracles are happening every day. 
If you are not seeing them, then the problem 
might not be with the existence of the miracles, 
but rather with your ability to “see” them 
happening. (You might want to consider the 
implications of this latest possibility.)
Before I close, consider this, Mr. Zahn. Who, 
in your opinion, is the most outstanding per­
sonality of all time?
Whether you believe in Him or not, I feel it 
would be difficult for you to answer anyone 
besides “Jesus.” His impact on the world is 
particularly difficult to dispute. Assuming you 
decide it might be Jesus, I then ask you to 
consider, who is Jesus of Nazareth to you 
personally? A myth, a mere man or the Son of 
God? Your life upon this earth and for all 
eternity is affected by your answer to this 
question. Think about it seriously.
Scott Phelan
Grad Student, Civil Engineering
Now hear this
By ART BUCHWALD
Larry Speakes has been roundly criticized 
for putting words in President Reagan’s 
mouth. As press secretary he made up 
quotes that he attributed to the President, 
causing untold 
damage to Mr.
Reagan’s reputa­
tion as the com­
mander-in-chief 
of everything he 
utters.
People in the 
White House 
press corps were 
not so much 
amazed at
Speakes’ resort­
ing to such subter­
fuge as they were 
puzzled about 
why the President 
permitted him to 
do it.
The best explanation is that President 
Reagan never worried about what Speakes 
said at his briefings as long as it sounded 
good to the public.
There were some close calls for the Gip- 
per, however. One time Speakes came into 
the Oval Office and said, “Sir, we have just 
secured Grenada. Is there any statement 
you’d like to make?”
“How about, ‘Fourscore and seven years 
ago our forefathers brought forth on this 
earth a new nation and that is why we have 
nothing to fear but fear itself?”
“It’s a bit wordy,” Larry said.
“Well, you have the idea, just kick it 
around and use anything you want to.”
“I will say, ‘This is one of the greatest vic­
tories against communism in our lifetime 
and is a signal to our foes that we will never 
negotiate out of fear nor fear to negotiate. ’” 
“That’s fine. Good night.”
“But, sir, it’s 4 o’clock in the afternoon. 
You have to make a speech this evening at 
your state dinner for Margaret Thatcher.” 
“What are you going to tell the press I 
said?” the President asked.
“I might tell them that you said Prime 
Minister Thatcher has brought us nothing 
but blood, sweat, and tears.”
“I hadn’t planned on saying that. Why 
can’t you report when I made my toast I had 
no comment?” 
“The press 
doesn’t like that. 
Don’t worry, I’ll 
think of some­
thing.”
“You’re very 
good, Larry.”
“I see it this way, 
Mr. President. A 
press secretary’s 
job is to make the 
president look bet­
ter than he really is. 
If I can have you ex­
pounding brilliant 
things, we both 
win.”
“How do we both 
win?”
“You come out as the Great Communica­
tor and I get a much higher advance on my 
book.”
“Larry, are we doing anything wrong?” 
“Of course not. I am your spokesman. 
What difference does it make if you say it 
or I say it, as long as you get the credit for
it?”
“Suppose they find out the words aren’t 
mine?”
“Only you and I know that, sir, and I sure 
as heck am not going to tell. Look, I won’t 
make up quotes all the time. If you ever 
come up with anything original, I’ll use it.” 
“And you don’t think it will hurt us when 
it comes out?”
“Not on your life. You don’t think Abra­
ham Lincoln said everything he was cred­
ited with?”
“Can I give you my statement now on 
how we won the war in Afghanistan?” the 
President asked.
“Try it out on me, and I’ll see if I like it.” 
“You really take over, don’t you, Larry?” 
“Better me than Gorbachev.”

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 11
NrNNrF2v sa6N1
FETpfDOETpIAg DPE,KS 0. UNUIU0K. OE UKK3 DUaD dT..A0.Tg
continued from page 8
to the editors’ misguided conclusions.
The editorial argues that “Senate’s Rules 
Committee should have worked with SDC to 
reach a compromise that would be agreeable to 
^>th organizations.” In fact, this was precisely 
the intent of the committee. That is why the 
resolution was sent “To CMU Housing Office 
and Student Dormitory Council” (italics 
added) so as to adopt an official Senate policy 
from which to negotiate. Peter Tilem, SDC 
Housing Committee Chairman, later justified 
to me inaction on the part of his committee by 
saying that he did not know how Senate really 
^lt about the issue. At the previous Senate 
meeting, however, he urged that the resolution 
be tabled. If such a policy had either been 
accepted or rejected by the Senate as opposed 
to being tabled, Mr. Tilem would have been 
very much aware of how the Senate felt about 
the issue.
Last year, the matter was given to SDC, 
which overwhelmingly rejected a change in 
•>ie policy or even an exploration of such a 
change. The policy as it now reads allows only 
fraternities the privilege to canvass dormito­
ries. The editorial implied that advocacy of a 
policy change in this instance was part of a 
“personal, unfounded crusade.” This could 
not be further from the truth. Contrary to the 
assertions in the editorial (“Did any organiza­
tion ask for an open dorm storming policy or 
#id the Rules Committee decide to fix some­
thing that wasn’t broken?”) this resolution was 
far from a whim on my part or the part of the 
committee.
In 1985, Students Against Apartheid asked 
for permission to canvass dormitories to peti­
tion for University divestment from South 
Africa. They were refused as were others be­
fore them. At that time, people from that or­
ganization including myself spoke with Mike 
Murphy and Tony Martin, the Director of 
Housing. We presented an argument for a 
consistent policy applying to all student or­
ganizations, not just fraternities. Contrary to 
The Tartan's assertion that we were “fix[ing] 
something that wasn’t broken,” there is no 
legitimate reason that political and other 
campus organizations are not also permitted to 
dorm storm. In fact, fraternities generally have 
greater resources than other campus organiza­
tions and thus do not need special privileges 
not available to others. Second, if any group is 
likely to cause a disturbance it is fraternities, 
because they tend to canvass in large numbers. 
Despite these facts, however, I strongly be­
lieve that fraternities should be permitted to 
dorm storm. But allow other organizations to 
do the same. Canvassing is an excellent tool 
for contacting students and gathering support. 
If individuals are not interested, a simple “no 
thank you” would be appropriate.
Others may argue that dorm storming is such 
a nuisance that it must be banned entirely. I do 
not hold such a belief, but even if one does, 
then the current policy is still wrong because it 
permits fraternities to canvass. One final 
point, in response to a question in the Student 
Union election issue, not a single winning or 
losing candidate for Senate endorsed the cur­
rent policy of only allowing fraternities to 
dorm storm. If students do favor the current 
policy, nobody has chosen to run for Senate to 
represent that viewpoint.
Despite SDC voting overwhelmingly for a
second time to neither change nor examine the 
current policy after the Senate resolution was 
tabled, the Senate Rules Committee and the 
SDC Housing Committee have agreed to 
administer a survey to residents of campus 
housing from which a policy will be drafted.
As The Tartan made a decision to not write 
an article about the Senate total divestment 
resolution despite it being perhaps the strong­
est political statement the Senate has ever 
made, we too must make value judgements on
Editor:
I would like to respond to Richard Zahn Jr’s 
letter in last week’s Tartan, which he titled 
“Why Cliffe Is An Idiot”. Being a member of 
Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship, the group 
which invited Cliffe to campus, I was, need­
less to say, disturbed by this title. But as I 
began reading the letter, it became quickly 
apparent that the Cliffe referred to in this letter 
was not the same Cliffe we invited to campus.
Mr. Zahn refers to a Cliffe who tried to 
“prove the existence of God”, and whose proof 
was “the Bible”. Now, I listened to our Cliffe 
almost all of the time he was speaking on 
campus, and he must have said twenty times 
that it would be absurd for him to try to “prove” 
the existence of God. However, he pointed out 
that almost nothing we base our lives on is 
totally “provable” — that our mother loves us, 
that the roof of our dorm won’t cave in on us 
tonight, etc, etc. Rather, we believe in these 
things because the evidence is that they are 
true. This Cliffe went on to challenge his 
listeners to examine the evidence for God’s
what is and is not important and what does anc 
does not need to be changed. Where I am mos 
critical of Senate (as was the editorial) is wher 
they refuse to take a stand by tabling motions 
If you wish to criticize the body for inaction or 
various issues, I would concur. But do not in 
the same breath criticize us for action. You jus? 
can’t have it both ways.
Allen Greenberg
[Ex- JChairman Senate Rules Committee
existence: historical accounts of the life oi 
Jesus Christ, the Gospels in the Bible and othei 
historical documents of the period, as well as 
our own experiences of life, love, justice, and 
moral values. After the evidence has been ex­
amined, an unbiased conclusion can be 
reached.
Followers of Jesus Christ are not “idiots”, 
nor are we “lunatics” or people who have 
otherwise thrown their brains out the window 
You know us. You’ve seen us in your hall, in 
your classes, in the lab or the studio late at 
night. We think, we feel, we work, we eat 
campus food. We haven’t been brainwashed. 
We’re normal, everyday people — just like 
you are. But we’ve had an experience with tht 
God of the universe which has begun to trans­
form our lives. And we want to share this good 
news with the friends we care about.
Scott Huffman
Bible Study Coordinator for Inter Varsity 
Christian Fellowship 
Senior, Comp. E.
l SI99.T.AO 2KI99. RUD EA iUpr,D
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
Sun.-Thurs. 7-10pm
CALCULUSPH 107-A
PHYSICSPH 107- B
CHEMISTRYPH 126-A
ECONOMICSPH 126-B
ACADEMIC WRITINGPH 126-C
INTRO. TO COMPUTINGWeH 5409
Sponsored by the Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

GET INVITED TO:
CULTURAL EVENTS, SPORTS EVENTS, BRUNCHES, LUNCHES, COCKTAIL PARTIES, THEATER, SEE COLLEGE FRIENDS, 
MEET NEW PEOPLE AND FIND INTERESTING MAIL IN YOUR MAILBOX...
BY JOINING THE CARNEGIE MELLON NYC ALUMNI CLAN
Name ______________________________________________________________________
Address _______________________________________________________________________
City/State/Zip __________
Phone # __________________________________ Company ________________________
Office # ___________________________._______ Major ________________________
Dues: 1988 Graduates $10.00
I WOULD LIKE TO PARTICIPATE IN:
EVENT PLANNING Q] FUNDRAISING Q PRODUCING THE NEWSLETTER Q NYC CLAN LEADERSHIP
Clip out this form and mail it and your check (payable to NYC/CMU Clan)
TO: Mr. Mark Bach
115 East 9th Street #5L 
New York, NY 10003
P.S. Send us this form and you’ll receive invitations to our
FABULOUS SUMMER EVENTS!!.....see you there.
June 9, 1988 - Spring Fling - At 3 W. 51st CMU Club
Any lost-and-found items that have 
been turned in to the Information Desk 
this year will be donated to charity 
organizations on May 13. Check the 
desk by May 13 if you have lost items.

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 15
t2..r 9UAOUDI.D 
OE aE,TD.K9
continued from page 14 
Dear H.D.,
You said it — Hopeless. Unless this “girl­
friend” happens to fall in front of a bus, or 
ingests arsenic accidentally, you don’t have a 
prayer.
• If you have fantasies about an adulterous 
tryst with the young man keep them to your­
self. If word got out you could be in danger of 
losing your limbs to her and her pack of vindic­
tive female friends. They will not only attempt 
to sever you from the social world but they will 
also drag you through the mud. These defen­
sive girls will think nothing of creating scan­
dalous details to embroider your past, if you
^try to move in on this fellow. Here are a few 
examples of some frequently used cuts: 
“Well, let me put it this way. The last person 
she dated was her Dad.”
“You know she had lyposuction last term and 
a nose job the term before that. By the time she 
graduates she’ll probably have implants, elec­
trolysis, perms, and facial reconstructive sur­
gery. The worst part of it is that it Just Won’t 
•Help.”
“Fatso likes him?! That’s probably just be­
cause she’s been with every other guy on 
campus.”
—-Specs
Dear Specs,
I’m going to miss my friends so much this 
summer. I hate leaving Carnegie Mellon, and 
I’m so sad. I don’t even want to say goodbye
# to the graduating seniors because it makes me 
depressed.
—Help!
Dear Help,
Relax. Don’t Worry. We’ll all come and visit 
you in Western Psych. The people there will 
take care of you and your problem. When you 
feel strong enough to come back CMU will 
still be here. By that time there will be a ravine 
^ in the middle of the cut for you to play in for 
your whole life.
—Specs
cj D.iEASD 
DUaD gEES0a.
continued from page 13gp for all my wisecracking, my criticism of the 
administration, my denigration of the city of 
Pittsburgh, and my general kvetching, I 
wouldn’t change a minute of my past four 
years here. Sure, I would have liked the course 
load to have been a little lighter. Sure, I would 
have lowered the tuition by several orders of 
magnitude. Sure, I would have preferred that 
Physical Plant not spread feces all over the 
campus as soon as the weather became such 
that you wanted to sit where they were plant­
ing the feces.
I would have improved student-administra- 
tion relations. I would have improved the 
living conditions in the Habitrails we have for 
dormitories. I would have raised the quality of 
the social life on campus (actually, I probably 
would have had to invent it first). I would have 
done better in my classes. I would like to have 
spent more than five minutes of leisure time 
per week. I would have liked to have had a life.
But I wouldn’t change a minute of my past 
four years here.
Bye.
16I66N66CI C6H666PC
NOW HIRING M/F
Summer & Career Opportuni­
ties (Will Train). 
Excellent pay plus world travel. 
Hawaii, Bahamas, Carribean, 
etc. CALL NOW: 
206-736-0775 Ext. 900N
•The Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu­
mentation presents its 6th International 
Exhibition of Botanical Art and Illustra­
tion, featuring works by 93 international 
artists, April 8-July 31 on the 5th Floor of 
the Hunt Library.
•’’Perspectives from Pennsylvania,” CMU 
Art Gallery’s annual exhibition of works by 
artists living in the state, runs April 24-May 
22. The Gallery is at407 South Craig Street 
in Oakland.
•North Hills Village Mall is sponsoring a 
training clinic for the Pittsburgh Marathon 
on April 28th. The speakers for the clinics 
are different each week and include a vari­
ety of topics. All clinics are free. For more 
information call 366-2250.
•Laurel Highlands Regional Theatre, 91 
McCandless Avenue, Lawrenceville, will 
present Howard Moss’ The Palace at 4 pm, 
April 21-May 15. For reservations call 781- 
9198.
•Citiparks’ Spring/Summer Film Series, 
running from May 2-June 27, will focus on 
public art. Films will be shown Monday 
evenings, 7:30 pm at the King Estate on 
1251 N, Negley Ave. in Highland Park.
•Two pop operas from the creator of “Hair” 
and “Jesus Christ Superstar” will premiere
CITY LIGHTS
at the Benedum Center. “Senator Joe,” a 
musical cartoon about the McCarthy Era will 
play May 4-May 8. “Nimrod and the Tower of 
Babel” will open on May 10 and run through 
May 15. For ticket information and details call 
456-6666.
•The Carnegie Museum of Art presents 
American Landscape Video: The Electronic 
Grove, May 7-July 10. The exhibit features 
video art highlighting the American land­
scape. For more information, call 622-3328. 
Tuesday, April 26
•The Society for Art in Crafts will hold the 
third part of a three part seminar, “The Art of 
Self Promotion: Basic Business Principles for 
Artists” The second part is entitled “Law and 
Finance,” featuring three attorneys and an 
accountant discussing copyright laws, liabil­
ity, ownership and other topics. The seminar
will be held at The Society for Art in Crafts, 
2100 Smallman Street, Strip District, from 
6:00-8:00 pm. The seminar costs $4.00 for 
students and $5.00 for others. Register by 
calling the Society for Art in Crafts at 261 - 
7003.
Wednesday, April 27 
•The Students for Human Life Club at 
Community College of Allegheny County 
will present their Second Annual Help for 
Pregnant Women Information Fair in Mil­
ton Hall Lobby from 9:00 am to 2:30 pm. 
Free. For more information, call Fran 
Howse at 237-2643.
Friday, April 30
•The Reel World String Band from Lexing­
ton, Kentucky will present two concerts for 
the 12th Annual Smoky City Folk Festival 
at Frick Fine Arts Auditorium, University 
of Pittsburgh. The concert times are 2:00 
pm for the children’s concert and 8:00 pm. 
Donation suggested. For more informa­
tion, call 322-6359.
•The Pennsylvania Historical and Museum 
Commission presents “Religion and the 
Ethnic Experience,” a day-long seminar 
from 9:00 am-4:00 pm. For more informa­
tion, call 681-5533.
Compiled by TERENCE SPIES
FEA TURASR .P FEA agAURASRe
2VH SEI^$159 89FF R9WAHLK5H-HW NHL5HW SETA5T^HW 
U5AV 2VHWH SI9WW5- OHG uHIH9WHWn
From Basie to Brubeck, from Miles to Mingus to Monk, the most influential music by the 
legends of jazz has been digitally remastered for CD, LP and Cassetta This state-of-the-art sound is 
the hallmark of a continuing series dedicated to preserving the major works in jazz history.
.5h5A9IIr uH$9WAHLHs7 
0T SEI^$159 SE$$-A .5W-Wp uH-ELsW mTs S9WWHAAHW7
SB “CoUnta,"® « tradtnwta of CBS Inc. C1988 CBS Records Ire

---------------------------------------------------

kCbb y,pp.T y.DDIEAD
Undergraduate & Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions:
(1)(1&2)
(2)
Offered Summer Session One 
Offered Summer Session All 
Offered Summer Session Two 
Graduate Course Number
May 16-July 1, 1988 
May 16-August 19, 1988 
July 5-August 19, 1988
(chemistry
Computer
Science
Mathematics
Mechanical 
Engineering
Metallurgical 
Engineering 
and
Materials Sciencel8-236 
Physics
Statistics
Biomedical
Engineering
Architecture
Design
Art
Industrial
Management
09-105 Modem Chemistry I
09-117 Organic Chemistry I
09-218 Organic Chemistry II
15-111 Introduction to Computing
for Engineering and Science 
15-116 Introduction to Computing 
for Fine Arts
15-117 Introduction to Computing in Scheme
15-118 Introduction to Computing for
Humanities and Social Sciences
21-105 Precalculus (H&SS)
21-111 Calculus I (H&SS)
21-112 Calculus II (H&SS)
21-121 Calculus I
21-122 Calculus and Linear Algebra
21-127 Introduction to Modern Mathematics
21-259 Calculus in Three Dimensions
21-260 Differential Equations
21-292 Operations Research
24-112 Fluid Mechanics I
24-121 Thermodynamics I
27-322 Process Metallurgy
27-332 Physical Metallurgy II
27-350 Industrial Projects Seminar
Introduction to Solid State Electronics
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics
33-122 Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics
33-123 Physics III: Electricity & Magnetism
36-101 Statistical Concepts
with Computer Applications 
36-209 Probability and Applied Statistics
for Management/Social Science I 
36-210 Probability and Applied Statistics
for Management/Social Science II 
36-211 Probability and Applied Statistics
for Physical Sciences/Engineering I 
36-212 Probability and Applied Statistics
for Physical Sciences/Engineering II 
36-217 Probability Theory
and Random Process 
36-219 Statistical Methods for Data Analysis
36-225 Intro, to Probability & Statistics I
36-226 Intro, to Probability & Statistics II
36-309 Expererimental Design for
Behavioral and Social Sciences 
36-325 Probability & Mathematical Stats. I
36-326 Probability & Mathematical Statts. II
42-500 Physiology
42-560 Biomedical Eng. Undergrad. Projects
*42-735 Physiology
48-301 Architectural Design: Level III
51-103 Introduction to Design
51-200 Design
51-210 Introduction to Photography
60-117 Drawing
60-224 Art and the Computer
60-226 Individual Problems: Intermedia
60-228 Painting
60-317 Drawing
60-328 Painting
60-374 Individual Problems
60-380 Contemporary Art
60-381 Independent Study:
Contemporary Issues in Art History 
60-390 Internship: Gallery Experience
*60-717 Drawing
*60-724 Art and the Computer
*60-726 Individual Problems: Intermedia
*60-728 Painting
*60-774 Individual Problems
*60-780 Contemporary Art
70-101 Elements of Industrial Administration
70-121 Financial Accounting
70-332 Government and Business
70-361 Foundations of Law
10 units(l)
9 units(l)
9 units(2)
10 units(l&2)
10 units(l&2)
10 units(l)
10 units(l&2)
9 units(2)
10 units(l)
10 units(l)(2) 
10 units(l)(2) 
10 units(l)(2) 
9 units(l)(2) 
9 units(l)(2) 
9 units(l)(2) 
9 units(2)
10 units(l)
9 units(l)
12units(l&2) 
9 units(l&2) 
9 units(l&2) 
9 units(l&2)
10 units(l)(2) 
10 units(l)(2) 
10 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2) 
9 units(l)(2) 
9 units(l)(2) 
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l)(2) 
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(l) 
TBA(2)
9 units(l)
15 units(l&2)
18 units(2)
18 units (2)
9 units(l)(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(l&2)
9 units(l&2) 
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(l)
9 units(lX2) 
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
Industrial70-371Production I9 units(lX2)
Management70-381Marketing I9 units(l)
(continued)70-391Finance I9 units(l)(2)
Economics73-100Principles of Economics9 units(l)(2)
73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units(l)(2)
73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 units(l)(2)
73-360Econometrics9 units(l)
English76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(l)(2)
76-101Reading Texts
(1&2) 
9 units(l)(2)
76-103Writing Strategies for Foreign Students
(1&2) 
9 units(l)
76-245Shakespeare
(1&2) 
9 units(l)(2)
76-251Studies in American Literature:9 units(l)
76-260
Contemporary American Literature 
Survey of Forms: Fiction9 units(l)
76-270Writing for the Professions9 units(l)(2)
76-301Internship0-18 units(l)(2)
76-371Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units(l)
76-392Introduction to Discourse Analysis9 units(l)
76-471Internship in Technical9 units(l)(2)
*76-771
Writing & Editing 
Rhetoric in Social Interaction12 unks(l)
*76-792Introduction to Discourse Analysis9 units(l)
*76-901Internship3 units(2)
History79-103American Civilization9 units(l)
79-120Development of American Society9 units(2)
79-220Contemporary America in Film9 units(l)(2)
79-221History of American Urban Life9 units(2)
79-222Topics in Business History:9 units(2)
79-347
American Advertising
Arms Sales and Global Politics9 units(2)
79-350History of American Sports9 units(2)
79-360Witchcraft and Dissent in Europe9 units(l)
Philosophy80-100Philosophic Methods9 units(l)
80-231Topics in Moral Philosophy9 units(l)
80-595
Women and Moral Problems 
Supervised Research in PhilosophyTBA(l)
Psychology85-101General Psychology (self-paced)9 units(l)
85-110Introduction to Symbolic9 units(l)(2)
85-480
Programming (self-paced) 
Internship in Clinical Psychology18 units(l)
School of Urban*90-754Computer Applications12 units(l&2)
and
Public Affairs*90-760
for Public Managers 
Strategic Marketing I12 units(l&2)
*90-761Organizational Management II12 units(l&2)
*90-762Strategic Planning12 units(l&2)
*90-763Data Analysis for Managers12 units(l&2)
*90-764Economic Principles of12 units(l&2)
*90-778
Policy Analysis 
Personnel Administration12 units(l&2)
*90-789Financial Analysis for Managers12 units(l&2)
*90-795Policy in Health Systems6 units(l)
*90-798Legal Issues in Health6 units(2)
EuropeanParis
Systems Management
June 3 - July 26 Contact the Modem
StudiesGermanyJune 6 - July 29 LanguagesDepartment
MadridMay 31 - June 23 for more information.
The course schedules for the above listed courses are contained in 
the 1988 Summer University Course Catalog.
The dates of the Summer Sessions art listed above. Undergraduate 
tuition is $ 100/unit (3 units = 1 credit).
The Catalog also contains registration materials and further informa­
tion.
The Catalog may be picked up at one of several locations on campus: 
outside of Warner Hall 111, the Registrar' Office (WH 201), the Sum­
mer Studies Office (WH 108), or call x6620.
All candidates must register for summer coursework using the 1988 
Registration Form for Summer Coursework. NOTE: Registration
materials for courses taking place during Summer Sessions One and 
All are due in the Summer Studies Office May 6, 1988.
The offering of summer coursework is dependent upon sufficient 
course enrollments. Only those Registration Forms received by the 
registration deadline(s)will be counted.
O
o
o
T

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 17
yp6iKKg aIN ae 8Ft 8asO
Rowing Club debuts
BY KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon’s University Rowing Club 
(URC) made a strong showing in its first 
regatta last Saturday. The women took second 
place and the men finished third.
This was a major accomplishment for the 
newly organized club. URC President Harry 
Printz was “jubilant about the results.” The 
team’s race boat arrived only five days before 
the race. This gave the team four days to get 
used to the boat and to practice rowing to­
gether.
Competing for the women were Carrie Teo- 
dori, Liz Gross, Marta Fuenteabla, Bow Pam 
Oliviera and Cox Adrienne Wong. Jon Knight, 
Mike Mills, Norm Veenstra, Bow Harry Printz 
and Cox Edouard Cervan-Schreiber made up 
the men’s team. Printz felt that the club’s 
performance spoke very well for Carnegie 
Mellon rowing.
The regatta was sponsored by Carnegie Mel­
lon, Duquesne University and the University 
of Pittsburgh, which were the only schools in 
the competition. It was coordinated by 
Duquesne’s coach Jeff Lowe, who, along with 
Carnegie Mellon’s coach Liz Winter, offici­
ated the events.
The 1.2 mile (2000 meter) course on the 
Allegheny starts at Washington Landing and 
runs downstream to finish at the tip of Herr’s 
Island.
In the men’s boats, Duquesne placed first, 
Pitt finished second and Carnegie Mellon was 
third. A second boat from Duquesne was 
fourth.
For the women, Pitt placed first, CMU was 
second and Duquesne finished third.
photo courtesy of Mercy Hospital Foundation
With more practice and experience, the 
Tartan rowing teams may be even more 
competitive than more established teams, 
such as the one shown here.
Oakland gets ready for runners
BY JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor
The Pittsburgh Marathon will be held on 
May 1, and will wind its way through the 
city, taking a nice long trek through the 
streets of Oakland. In preparation, the 
Oakland Business and Civic Association 
(OBCA) has a long list of activities planned 
to coincide with the Marathon. The theme 
of these events will be “Oakland: A World 
within a City.”
The group’s goals are to illustrate the cul­
tural, educational, residential, and shop­
ping diversity found in the Oakland area. 
Also, the OBCA hopes to show Oakland as 
a safe, pleasant neighborhood in which to 
live, work and play.
To have a very clear link with the Mara­
thon, “We are forming an informal 
Oakland team to run in the Marathon,” said 
spokesperson Karen Stahl. This team 
would be made up of residents, students 
and anyone employed in Oakland. The 
team would wear a “distinctive Oakland 
singlet in addition to the Marathon shirt,” 
according to Kathleen Miller of the OBCA 
planning staff.
Prior to the Marathon, the Women’s 
Olympic Trials are to be run along the same 
course. This is one of the main reasons for 
the excitement of the event’s organizers. 
Some of the best women runners from 
around the country will be in the race. The 
top three finishers in the Trial will be cho­
sen for the U.S. Olympic team.
After coming off the Birmingham Bridge, 
the runners will head up Forbes Avenue, 
turn left on Craig Street, then turn right on 
Fifth Avenue. According to Richard St. 
John of OBCA, “Oakland is about halfway 
on the 26.2 mile course...the only challeng­
ing hill on the course will be Forbes 
Avenue.”
Organizers also plan to have jugglers, 
clowns, and bands all along the race route.
According to Tracy J. Wilson of Carnegie 
Mellon’s Office of Special Events, the 
OBCA has asked Carnegie Mellon to sup­
ply musical groups (such as the choir or 
string trio) to perform on the day of the 
Marathon. Posters advertising the event 
and asking for such groups to volunteer 
have been hung inside the CFA building 
and around campus.
Pitt will be helping out with the festivities, 
including tours of the Nationality Rooms in 
the Cathedral of Learning.
Miller added, “We ’re encouraging people 
to come out and have a good time. The 
diversity of people in Oakland is spectacu­
lar and our running team, support crew and 
spectators will show this off.”
Other planned events include a 
Shakespeare Festival with City Theatre and 
Point Park, diverse on-street food booths, 
and events geared toward children featur­
ing the Carnegie Institute, Phipps Conser­
vatory and various parks.
®D€flfL_OF SHflDVSID€ SfllOn
ATEN IEOLA
TN n2 Np,r eaF i ,iOrhaGrF1 
TNu2 Np,r eaF i 0FpdDNrF gaI1 
fipFn wiOrI3 »cipK2 • ja62IKNi6N2 
kC% aee bpND PNI8r6N T51
Of SHRDVSID6 Sflion
5404 Centre Ave. • Pittsburgh. PA 15232 USA • 412-621-7900
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
285 2E,AD.KIAg V yO,S.AO F.N.KErp.AO 2.AO.T -cbf -C-- 
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
2HBwl2w hIOOD0,TgPooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo Jb-f\j-X
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
FT,g 2EAA.iOIEAoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo b’\fjJjj
An alcohol drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
w.KflISoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo -bkf\cc\
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
GARDNER REALITY CORPORATION >
MANHATTEN’S FOREMOST LOCATING 
K_______SERVICE SINCE 3969._________j
Congratulations on your graduation. If your 
first career job will be in The Big Apple, con­
sider that our firm has found better quality 
apartments at lower rents for more past gradu­
ates of your school than any other company in
New York City.
Exclusive agents for over 500 buildings. 
Elevator, brownstone, and doorman buildings. 
Terraces, gardens, duplexes, fireplaces, studios 
from $650,1 bedroom apartments (suits 2) from 
$800, 2 bedroom apartments (suits 3) from
$1100.
Hundreds of choice apartments available at no 
fee. Our car service with mobile phone will 
save you time in seeing apartments.
It's your money and your time.
Call us for a brochure to find out more about 
our incomparable service and product.
Call collect (212) 427-6225
Jeff Roney Anthony Esposito Gordon Loeb 
Directors of Corporate Relocation
Gardner Reality Corp. 
1276 Lexington Ave. (86th St.)
Open 7 days and evenings until 7:00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—April 26,1988
lr66p2 i68 NDr NDriNFrm a6r ,i6u2 2NaFg
Grumet volleys career
At Carnegie Mellon, the idea of a student 
athlete is, for the most part, a paradox. Since 
academics are given priority over sports (and. 
rightly so), athletes must shoulder a greater 
burden in order to play. They have to deal with 
both the pressures of courseloads and practice 
schedules. This differs greatly from the treat­
ment athletes receive at Division I type 
schools, where they are often coddled and 
guided along in their college careers.
Keith Grumet has played Varsity Tennis for 
Carnegie Mellon for all of the three years he 
has been here. In addition he has been the #1 
seed all three years. He was the #2 player at his 
high school in 
Holmdel, New Jersey.
He was second to Neil 
Meyerovich and the 
two combined to form 
tie All-State doubles 
t’am. Meyerovich is 
c arrently the #1 player 
for Pitt.
Grumet has consis­
tently been a winner 
f or the team and has 
been an inspirational 
spark helping his 
teammates perform 
well on the courts. However, he will not be 
able to play anymore this season due to class 
commitments as an acting student.
A television project for the West Coast 
Drama Clan is causing Grumet to quit, but he 
is not bitter about not being able to play. “I feel 
like this is a good reason and the time is right 
for me to stop playing.”
This is a severe blow to the team, mainly
because he missed the UAA tournament last 
weekend, and will not be able to play in the 
PACs this Thursday and Friday.
In a phone interview, Grumet said, “I am 
sorry that I won’t be able to represent the 
school and help my teammates win the PAC 
tournament.”
Grumet has had to work hard to stay on the 
team. But the difference between his experi­
ence and another athlete’s stems from the fact 
that he is a dramat.
As a freshman, “I had to ask permission from 
Lis Orion [Head of the Drama Department] 
before I could join the team,” he explained.
Due to the “cut sys­
tem” in the Drama De­
partment, if a student 
misses classes without 
a reason and/or per­
mission, he would be 
cut from the program.
Dramats, in general, 
have not been very 
active in the athletic 
programs at Carnegie 
Mellon. Grumet was 
told that few other ac­
tors were Tartan ath­
letes — a quarterback 
for the football team over 50 years ago, and 
Kate Harvey, who ran track two years ago.
Stan Younger, a play writing student, con­
curred that it is very difficult for drama stu­
dents to play sports. Younger played on the 
football team and had a tough time making 
practices due to commitments on projects and 
classes in the evenings.
“At night,” explained Grumet, “[dramats]
and court
are called for crew [technical work on various 
stage productions in the Kresge or Studio 
Theatre] from 7:30 to 11:00 every night except 
Sunday, then from 10:00 am to 2:00 on Satur­
day.” Such a schedule, with classes running 
sometimes straight through the day, is very 
tough to cope with by itself. “It’s tough to give 
100% in afternoon practices then go to crew,” 
commented Grumet.
Grumet hopes that more people in drama will 
try to compete in school athletics, mainly 
because of how much fun he has had and how 
much competing has helped him in his acting. 
“Tennis and acting go together well,” he said 
when asked if the two ever conflicted. “Acting 
helps develop mental ability, something you 
really need on the court.”
“The coaches and team have been very sup­
portive of me,” he added. Coach Rich 
Scheines constantly emphasizes to his players 
that their future careers should get priority 
over the tennis team.
This story is a unique one. For the first time 
in a long time, we see a great athlete ending his 
playing days (for a while at least) because he 
chooses to, not because he is forced to. He has 
not been recruited into the professional ranks, 
he has not failed out of school and he has not 
become addicted to drugs. Of his own choice, 
he is not going to play so that he can concen­
trate on his future career. In addition, the sport 
he has played has actually contributed to this 
career while providing relaxation and enjoy­
ment — which is exactly what collegiate 
sports are supposed to do.
Stories like this are rare, but one you would 
expect at a school like Carnegie Mellon, I 
guess.
iíMÜUMIf»
HUSSEIN BY A SECOND
In the 92nd Boston Marathon, held last 
Monday, Ibrahim Hussein edged out 
Juma Ikangaa in the final 100 meters to 
win by one second in a time of 2:08:43. 
This was the closest victory in Boston 
Marathon history. The women’s de­
fending champion, Rosa Mota of Portu­
gal, won the race in 2:24:30.
BUCS ON TOP
The Pittsburgh Pirates are off to their 
best start since their championship sea­
son in 1970. The Bucs completed a three 
game sweep of Chicago on Sunday by 
downing the Cubs 4-2. Darnell Coles 
snapped a 2-2 tie with an RBI single in 
the fourth inning, and Raphael Belliard 
drove in Coles.
The Bucs have won 11 of their last 13 
en route to a 13-4 record and first place 
in the National League East.
ORIOLES STILL WINLESS
The Baltimore Orioles added to their 
losing streak this week, despite the in­
stallation of new manager Frank Robin­
son. The 0-18 pace set by the Orioles is 
the worst start of any major league team 
in history, eclipsing the record 0-13 
starts by the 1904 Washington Senators 
and 1920 Detroit Tigers.
HERR NOT IN THE CARDS
The St. Louis Cardinals sent their sec­
ond baseman Tommy Herr to the Min­
nesota Twins for Tom Brunansky, Last 
year’s World Series teams are in last 
place, and hope the trade will spark up 
their ball clubs.
SOVIETS PLAY BALL
The Soviet Union accepted a $3.2 mil­
lion gift from Sigeyosi Matsumae, the 
president of Tokai University in Japan, 
which will go toward the construction of 
the Soviets’ first baseball stadium. The 
2,000 seat stadium will prepare the So­
viet Union for the first Olympic baseball 
competition in 1992.
NHL PLAYOFFS CONTINUE
The NHL playoffs are in the middle of 
the second round, with the New Jersey 
Devils and Washington Capitals in the 
Patrick Division finals. Boston and 
Montreal are battling in the Adams 
Division, while the St. Louis Blues and 
the Detroit Red Wings are locked up in 
the Norris Division. The other second 
round games pit Smythe Division rivals 
Edmonton Oilers and Calgary Flames.
MALONE TO CHIEFS
The Pittsburgh Steelers sent their 
much maligned quarterback, Mark 
Malone, to Kansas City last week in ex­
change for Chief QB Todd Blackledge. 
The two teams talked about the trade for 
a few weeks before making the switch.
OLYMPIC HOOPS BEGIN
With the 1988 Summer Games ap­
proaching, Olympic basketball head 
coach John Thompson has sent out 93 
tryout invitations to prospective play­
ers. Tryouts will start May 22 in Colo­
rado Springs, and will feature Danny 
Manning and David Robinson, the last 
two college Players of the Year. The 
only high school player invited was 
Olonzo Mourning, who will be a fresh­
man at Georgetown University this fall.
P/o meTa rtnNn 
wNn No
sEd/i w-aCnNah
When it comes to financing an education, there are, indeed, right 
answers. And you'll find these answers at Pittsburgh National Bank.
Our Education Loan Center is staffed with specialists familiar with 
all Federal and State student loan programs. They'll provide the financing 
help you need with fast, friendly service and knowledgeable answers. 
They can help you choose from a full range of student loan programs— 
for the loan that's the right one for you.
And save the "there are no right answers" discussion for your 
Philosophy Seminar.
i----------------------------------------------------------Please send more information and an application for the loan options checked below.
. ? An 8% Annua! Percentage Rate. PHEAA-guaranteed loan that lets freshmen and sophomores1 borrow up to $2,625 a year juniors and seniors, $4,000 a year with no interest or payments| due until 6 months after leaving school.
? A government-sponsored PLUS loan that lets parents borrow up to an additional $4,000 for 
1 dependent students. (Independent students may also apply.)
Name__
Address..City..State..Zip.
Return to PNC Education Loan Center. Customer Service Dept-00757 
PO Box 340777P Pittsburgh PA 15230-9977
For Immediate Answers, Call Toll-Free 800-762-1001.
(Monday-Friday, 900 a m -400 p.m.)
PRIDE IN PERFORMANCE
\y PITTSBURGH NATIONAL BANK
? An affiliate of PNC FINANCIAL CORP
An Equal Opportunity Lender
Va2D -I0r6u2
Sportspeak

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
IM News UAS yOUASIAgD Steelers draft a defense
The first IM board meeting of thel988-89 
academic year will be held on September 1st, 
at 12pm in the Gym Conference Room.
SPORTS IN SEASON
4KTabIe Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
The doubles championship will be played 
this week.
Team Call Pool and Individual Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436 
The finals must be played this week. Please 
check for details on the IM bulletin board.
#
Weight Lifting
Commissioner Keith Gorse x2222 
Enter your name with Keith and start lifting.
Softball
Majors - Pat Jefferies x4299 
Intermediate - Stu Fox x4226 
Minors and Women - Stephanie Janczak 
0x4229
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office. Please make sure to circle the win­
ning team on the score sheet.
SPORTS COMING UP
Triathlon
Commissioner Mrs. Morosky x2075 
^ The meet will be held on April 30th, and 
consist of a 400 yard swim, 10 mile bike leg, 
and a 3.1 mile run. Get your team lined up now.
Frisbee
Commissioner Paul Drake 681-8703 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office. Please play all matches on time.
THE IM TICKER....•
With the end of the school year approaching, 
the spring IM sports are coming to a close. 
Congratulations go out to campus champions 
in the following sports:
Badminton
Co-Rec - Gen Shonglo and Yi Fanztsay 
Male Doubles - Gen Shonglo and Dan 
•Zardspiner
Independent - Dan Zaidopiner
Swimming
Men’s
1. Sud Suckers
2. DU 
Women’s 
Sud Suckers
,
Indoor Soccer 
Minors - Kappa Sig
€
Tartan runner 
wins scholarship
Greensburg native Sandy Payne, a 
sophomore student-athlete at Carnegie 
Mellon University, was recently named 
winner of the university’s R. Marshall 
Brown Scholar-Athlete Award.
The $3,000 award per year for two 
years, is given in memory of the late R. 
Marshall Brown, a former trustee and 
student-athlete at Carnegie Mellon from 
1952-56. Brown was a starting halfback 
for the Tartans’ football team. The 
award is given who a sophomore who 
shows financial need and academic ex­
cellence, and is a member of an intercol­
legiate athletic team.
Payne, a bio-medical engineering/ 
chemical engineering major with a 3.92 
grade-point average, is a distance runner 
on Carnegie Mellon’s women’s track 
and field team.
Fencing
Team - ABD’s
Track 
Men s - Spirit 
Women’s - CIA
Pinochle
l.SAE
2.TKB
3.KDR
4. Sigma Nu
5. Theta Xi
6. Phi Kap
This week will also see playoff action con­
tinue in the IM softball leagues, and the darts 
final between PiLam and Sigma Nu.
Pat Jeffries was elected as the new IM 
President. Pat will be replacing Rob Sch- 
lackman
1988 IM Track Meet 
Final Team Standings 
MEN
First Place Spirit 73
Second Place CIA 24
Third Place DU 23
800 Yard Relay
Spirit-A 1:36.07
One Mile Run
Rob Kissel-DU 5:08
100 Yard Dash
Jeff Illian-DU 0:11.04
880 Yard Run
Rob Bowie-Spirit 2:14
440 Yard Dash
Gary Williams-Spirit 1:01 
220 Yard Dash
Jeff Illian-DU 0:22.0
One Mile Relay
Spirit-A 3:58
Shotput
Bill Jones-Spirit 32’ 9”
High Jump
Jay Glaspy-Spirit 6’ 0”
Long Jump
Bill Jones-Spirit 16’ 9”
WOMEN
OVERALL WINNERS: CIA 
Note: Statistics for the women’s events 
were not available.
UAA Men’s Tennis 
Tournament Results
School 
Emory 
Rochester 
Brandéis 
Washington 
Carnegie Mellon 
Case Reserve 
NYU
Points
36
*
19
11
11
5
* Final places and points for Roches­
ter and Brandeis are not available.
For Carnegie Mellon, Jay stevens won 
in the consolation tournament, playing 
#5 doubles. Dave Dillon and Daren 
Kaplan also won in the consolation 
tournament, playing #3 doubles.
The team will play in the PAC tourna­
ment this Thursday and Friday, at John 
Carroll University.
continued from page 20
chose Dermontti Dawson, a 6’2” 272-pound 
offensive lineman from the University of 
Kentucky.
Although Dawson has mainly played at the 
guard position in college, he is clearly the 
prime candidate to eventually succeed Mike 
Webster as the Steeler center.
“Webster is our center and Mike can’t play 
forever. Dawson can play and play effectively.
I would assume our plans would have him 
being better at center rather than guard,” 
commented Steelers offensive line coach Hal 
Hunter.
What would qualify a player, whose start at 
center in the Senior Bowl was his first since 
1985, to be mentioned in the same breath as 
Webster?
First, Dawson played exceptionally well in 
that Senior Bowl contest. “All the scouts up­
graded him after they saw him play center at 
the Senior Bowl. He went in there and in one 
week played center against some very good 
nose tackles on the other side of the ball,” said 
Hunter. Secondly, the 22 year-old lineman 
should have less difficulty than most players 
adapting to the Steeler’s propensity for trap- 
blocking, since Kentucky employed a similar
system.
Dawson also favors the position. He said, “I 
prefer the center spot I played it two years, 
freshman and sophomore year. In a pro of­
fense I’d rather play center because you’re not 
as restricted as in college ball.”
But Dawson’s experience at both the guard 
and center spots makes him more attractive, 
especially to the Steelers, who value versatil­
ity in their offensive lineman.
Offensive line coach Hunter commented 
about Dawson that “He probably had a little 
more going for him athletically [than Chuck 
Lanza]”
But the Steelers must of felt Lanza had 
something going for him, since they made the 
Notre Dame center their third round draft 
choice, yet more insurance for Webster.
A more likely explanation will be that one of 
the two picks will move to left tackle, where 
the Steelers desperately need help.
‘They’re both center/guard prospects with 
the possibility of playing tackle,” added 
Hunter.
Lanza stated that he is willing to be flexible. 
“If they want me to try guard or flip-flop at 
guard and center, I’m willing to try it,” he 
commented.
The P3aFN2 faI68 [the editor] would like to thank all of the writers 
who covered the Spring ’88 sports scene:
Thanks, Perry, Neil, Karyn, Judy, Neal, Stu, Dave, Rich, 
and especially Natalie — the best darn 
assistant money won’t buy.
See you guys next season! By the way, who wants to go on the St
Louis/Chicago trip?
MEMBER
SELF-SERVICE
STORAGE
ASSOCIATION
Spring/Summer 
SPECIAL
'A Place For Everything'
PRIVATE SELF STORAGE
FIRST MONTH'S RENT FREE
(With This Coupon)
24 HOUR ACCESS » Serving The South Hills
ECONOMY!
¦ Monlh-to-Month Leases 
' New Spring Rates
¦ 14 Sizes, Rent Only 
The Size You Need
¦ Your Lock - Your Key
•CONVEMENCE!
• 24 Hour Access
• Insurance Available
• Free Pallets
• Paved Access
• Packing Boxes Available
• SECURITY!
• Fenced Perimeter
• Fully Lighted
• Police Patrol
• One Gate Monitored Access
257-2066
BURNS & SCALO ENTERPRISES
CONTACT: Leonard R. Bertoni

---------------------------------------------------

£ The TartanÖPORTO
N.L. Standings (as of 4/25)
East W L GB West W L GB 
Pittsburgh 13 4 — Los Angeles 11 4 — 
New York 11 6 2 Houston 10 7 2 
Montreal 8 8 41/2 Cincinnati 10 8 2 1/2 
Chicago 7 10 6 San Francisco 9 9 3 1/2 
Philadelphia 6 10 6 1/2 San Diego 7 9 41/2 
St. Louis 5 12 8 Atlanta 3 13 8 1/2IM • CLUBS • VARSITY • PROFESSIONAL
Tartan track teams finish sixth in UAA
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Steelers were going to pick a running 
back. It had to be. One team to go before Pitts­
burgh had its first pick of the day, and Gaston 
Green was the only ball carrier taken. Even 
when New England scooped up John 
Stephens, the Northwest Louisiana State RB, 
Michigan State mainstay Lorenzo White was 
still available. As was Stanford’s Brad Muster 
and Craig Heyward.
But the Steelers sent draft watchers scram-
bling for their notebooks, selecting defensive 
lineman Aaron Jones with the 18th pick over­
all. And then they followed up with two cen­
ters. Although the results of the drafts will not 
be known for a long time yet, the fans have 
already started screaming about the lack of 
running backs and wide receivers.
Jones, a 6’5”, 258 pound defensive end out of 
Eastern Kentucky University, wasn’t even 
invited to the NFL scouting combine in Indi­
anapolis or a single post-season all-star game.
The Steelers saw enough of him, however, to 
think that Jones will help make the Pittsburgh
pass rush the feared attack it once was. The 
pick seems to signal a return to the 4-3 defen­
sive alignment, a notion defensive line coach 
Joe Greene did little to dispel.
Jones’ status as a relative unknown does not 
affect the enthusiasm Steeler coaches have for 
him. “I thought he was the best defensive 
lineman of the draft,” was Greene’s direct 
opinion. “He is the closest thing to a complete 
defensive end. He’s exceptional against the 
pass and good enough against the run.”
For his own part, Jones himself didn’t think 
he could play football. “After a while I started 
getting into weight lifting and getting bulky, 
then I found out I had natural ability. I could 
always run.” Jones’ first year of organized 
football was his senior year in high school, 
perhaps one reason he went to a I-AA school 
like EKU.
So why did the Steelers choose a defensive 
lineman when such a large number of running 
backs were still available? The responses from 
Steeler officials varied.
“We thought this guy could be more of a 
factor for us, on the defensive side of the ball,” 
said Steeler Director of Player Personnel Dick 
Haley. “We hadn’t been getting the pass rush 
we need.”
“We would like to have a dominating de­
fense again. That’s how you win the big ones,” 
was the word from Head Coach Chuck Noll.
Aaron Jones is confident he can make the 
jump from EKU to the NFL. “I know [the 
Steelers] need some help up front,” he said, “I 
can contribute right away.”
Pittsburgh went back to the bluegrass state 
for their second-round pick. This time they
continued on page 19
BY JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor 
Four new school records were set and an 
NCAA qualifier named last weekend for Car­
negie Mellon, when the Tartan Track Teams 
went to the University Athletic Association 
Championships at the University of Washing­
ton at St. Louis. Carnegie Mellon competed 
against seven other Division III teams.
Both the men’s and women’s teams finished 
sixth out of the nine schools attending the two 
day meet. The men earned 58 points, while the 
Tartan women got 48 points.
“We were very pleased with how we did,” 
said Assistant Coach Bruce Gerson.
Even with the relatively low finish, Gerson 
said that he and the rest of the coaching staff 
felt, “Very upbeat,” and would be “heading in 
to the President’s Athletic Conference [Cham­
pionships] on an up note.”
The big story for the Tartans was Damien 
McKnight who set a new school record in the 
400 meter hurdles with a time of 53.41 sec­
onds. This broke his own record set last year of 
53.50 seconds. He finished second in the race 
but was fast enough to qualify for the NCAA 
Division III Championships which will be 
held May 24-28 at Carleton College in Min­
neapolis. This will be McKnight’s second 
consecutive year attending the NCAA meet.
The women contributed the other three new 
school records. Kristin Burgard finished 
fourth in the 1500 meter run with a time of 
5:08.79. This beat her own record time of
5:10.90, set in last week’s invitational meet 
here at Carnegie Mellon. Leslie Williams set a 
new school record by running the 100 meter 
hurdles in 15.97 seconds. She finished second 
in the race and broke her own record of 16.3 set 
earlier this month. Jody Burig finished out the 
new school records by finishing the 200 me­
ters in 27.59 seconds and busting a two year 
old record of 27.76 set in 1986 by Kim Morri­
son.
In the shotput, Mike Boyle made it to the 
finals for Carnegie Mellon, but a 50 feet 7 1/4 
inches toss from the Case Western hurler 
sealed up a win in the event for the Spartans.
Personal bests were set in the discus by Jim 
Kelly who earned fourth place (136 feet 3 
inches), Mike Boyle who came in sixth (133 
feet 2 inches) and Greg Cheney (132 feet).
Other fine performances in the field events, 
for both the men and women, included Sue 
Caplan in the javelin (97 feet 7 inches-fourth 
place), Charles Luckett in the high jump (6 feet 
4 inches-second place) and Bruce Jones in the 
triple jump (44 feet 2 1/2 inches-third place).
High finishers in the track events included 
Dave Supp, who finished third in the 5000 
meter run with a time of 15:26.97, and Julia 
Wright, who finished right behind Williams 
with a time of 16.3 seconds. Gary Meeker ran 
a good race in the 1500 meters and finished 
third with a time of4:00.66. The winner in this 
race finished with a time of 4:00.33.
This Friday and Saturday, the teams compete 
in the PAC Championships at Bethany.
UNIVERSITY A THLETIC A SSOCIA TIONChampionship Results 
Track and Field
Men Women
School PointsSchoolPoints
Washington152Rochester159
Rochester120Washington111
Case Reserve100Emory98
Emory83Chicago79
Brandeis66Brandeis54
Carnegie Mellon58Carnegie Mellon 48
Chicago30NYU8
NYU20Case Reserve1
I______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________Steelers scan South in NFL Draft
photo by Josh Ruben
Rob Schlackman in singles action last week against Grove City. The team went to 
Brandeis this past weekend for the UAA tournament, results are on the Scoreboard.

---------------------------------------------------

DI H The Tartan I— IIVERSIONO
ENTERTAINMENT • COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDE
JOE BOB....................Page D3
A drive-in vacation in the Mexican nation
’70s TV CLASSICS......Page D4
Goodbye, farewell and Amen: M*A*S*H
is the last of the classics
Six Characters... at home in Kresge
By ERIKA L. PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor
Beautifully interpreted and staged, Six Char­
acters in Search of an Author, Luigi 
Pirandello’s classic drama of the nature of 
reality, is playing at the Kresge Theatre. Skill­
fully directed by Rina Yerushalmi, the show is 
the story of a family of characters who, once 
bom, were abandoned by their author and 
were given no drama in which to perform. The 
family implores the help of a theatre company 
in order to find a vehicle, namely the stage, 
through which they can fulfill their lives.
The action begins somewhat slowly with a 
reading and explanation of 
the opening stage directions 
and the entrance of the acting 
company on the stage, ready 
to rehearse. Parts have been 
cast for, ironically, another 
Pirandello play, which the 
cast and the Director dislike 
because of its complicated, 
difficult to understand dia­
logue. This preliminary sec­
tion of the show serves per­
fectly to introduce the audi­
ence to the temperaments 
and characters of the actors, 
and makes them comfortable 
with the atmosphere of the 
theatre.
Enter the family. A dishev-
ments in which the actors and the family 
members say lines and enact scenes simulta­
neously, the actors delayed momentarily as 
they listen to the family’s dialogue and repeat 
it. This eerie effect brings further intensity to 
the action and also shows us the development 
of the acting troupe and the family together, 
and their gradual communion in what they 
believe is the way the scenes should flow and 
the characters should be portrayed. The 
family’s reality begins to merge into the artifi­
cial atmosphere created in the theatre, and the 
family’s play begins to form itself.
This section of the play, which is not divided
polished and convincing than those of the 
other characters. They often caused a letdown 
in the intensity of the scenes.
Especially innovative in this section was the 
use of several large bags of dry leaves spread 
about the stage in order to create the illusion of 
a garden. The leaves added to the tension of the 
scenes in their incessant rustling as the charac­
ters moved about the garden. The smell of the 
leaves also brought the audience even further 
into the illusion of being at the rehearsal, 
almost part of the action.
The realistic set design and costuming and 
the intimate atmosphere of the Kresge helped
photo courtesy of the Drama Department
eled, black-clad group, they The family of the Drama Dept, production of Pirandello’s Six Characters in Search of an Author.
evoke horror from the actors and the audience 
with their white death makeup and pathetic 
situation. The Father, intensely played by 
Charles Leggett, begins to explain the group’s 
situation and wish to the Director, played by 
David Yezzi. Forever the cynic, the Director 
dismisses the idea that a life could be “written” 
on the stage and orders the family away. Pres­
ently, however, the Director becomes inter­
ested in the family; the confused Father, the 
intensely sensual Stepdaughter, the clinging 
children, the victimized Mother, and the aloof 
Son. Plans are then made to produce, or at least 
see, the people’s story.
Tension builds as the family tells their story, 
each giving competing renditions, finally 
amalgamating into a coherent chain of events. 
The Stepdaughter, played by Nicola Stimac, is 
especially convincing in her hysteria and bit­
terness. She tells the sordid story of her corrup­
tion and her family’s poverty with a psychotic 
intensity which both endears the audience to 
her plight and revolts them in its blatantness. 
As the family have told a part of their story, 
the Director steps in and substitutes his actors 
for the family members and has them begin a 
scene. The Leading Man, J. Grant Albrecht, 
and the Leading Lady, Kelliegh McKenzie, 
step in as the Father and Stepdaughter, and 
proceed to portray the pair’s anguish, shame 
and passion with hollow mocking exaggera­
tion, causing protest from the family. This is 
their life, they explain, they are the characters, 
and if they cannot play the scene themselves it 
must at least be played as it happened. The 
Director insists that it doesn’t matter if his 
actors portray the truth, because the truth, in 
the theatre, is not what is important. This 
conflict forms the crux of the play and is 
slowly resolved as the action continues, and 
both the actors and the family gain more re­
spect for and understanding of one another. 
As the next scenes of the family’s drama 
unfold, we see beautifully blocked move­
up into acts and scenes for the audiences, and 
which does not include an intermission, in­
cludes several very intense scenes, most 
memorably the passionate and tortured death 
dance of The Boy, a fight scene between the 
callous Son and the irate and victimized father, 
and the touching scenes between the Step­
daughter and the Little Girl. The level of the 
acting throughout the play was so skillful it 
would be impossible to enumerate all of the 
good scenes here. One weak link, however, 
were the scenes and speeches of The Son, 
played by David Lockhart, which were, in this 
section and throughout the play, much less
the audience to believe that they were witness­
ing an actual rehearsal, and added to the be- 
lievability of the action.
An excellent show, Six Characters runs April 
26-30 at 8 p.m., and April 30 at 2 p.m. Tickets 
and further information are available through 
the Carnegie Mellon Box Office in the CFA 
lobby, noon to 5 p.m., Monday - Friday, 268- 
2407. Special free tickets for the performance 
on the 28th are available to H&SS students 
through Dean Fienberg’s Night at the Theatre 
program, and may be picked up at the box 
office. A lecture and discussion period will 
follow this performance.
Normal Heart 
0.UOIAg DOTEAg
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Larry Kramer’s The Normal Heart, an 
emotionally intense drama which cen­
ters around the AIDS crisis, opened 
April 20th at the Pittsburgh Public The­
atre and will run until May 15th.
The combination of an experienced, 
professional cast and a humorous, yet 
very serious script made The Normal 
Heart a difficult play to walk away from 
unchanged. Not only dealing with the 
problems and emotions caused by the 
AIDS virus, The Normal Heart gives us 
a very human and revealing look at the 
problems gay men must face in our 
society.
The story revolves around Ned Weeks 
(William Rhys), an outspoken writer 
who learns of the seriousness of the 
disease from Dr. Brookner (Rosemary 
DeAngelis), one of the few doctors who 
will treat the men with the terrifying 
new virus that is spreading through the 
gay community. Ned takes it upon 
himself to fight the disease and make the 
community more aware of its serious­
ness.
The story follows Ned's struggle 
against a society that refuses to accept 
AIDS as anything more than a “faggot’s 
disease”, as well as the development of 
his first real relationship in which he can 
openly deal with his homosexuality.
Ned is such a harsh and brittle charac­
ter in the first few scenes that he be­
comes more than slightly irritating. He 
is so abrasive towards anyone who 
confronts him that it is difficult to accept 
him as more than a loudmouth. Soon it is 
evident that Ned has the right ideas but 
the wrong approach. He is very dedi­
cated in his fight and has put in two years 
of hard work and is beginning to see 
continued on page D2
Billy Bragg plays poli-rock at Graffiti
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan StaffM’riter
To most popular artists, politics are a 
completely taboo subject. Even in an elec­
tion year, MTV is as oblivious to the out­
side world as ever. The little controversy 
that is there usually filters in from the 
independent music scene, and is treated as 
a novelty — look at those silly people! 
Don’t they know that musicians can’t 
know anything about politics?
Actually, many bands don’t deal with 
specific political issues for precisely that 
reason — they don’t consider themselves 
to be knowledgeable to advise others. In­
stead, most opt for a vague stance of inde­
pendence and nonconformity, with vary­
ing degrees of success — Naked Raygun 
writes interesting songs about vague poli­
tics, while the Alarm writes vague songs 
about vague politics. Only a few bands, 
like the Dead Kennedys or Chumbawamba 
are willing to nail down their political 
stances, and most people have never heard 
of them (aside from possibly seeing the 
former’s name in the papers for the obscen­
ity hearing that a hyperactive parent and 
overly zealous District Attorney in­
flicted upon them).
Fact is, most fans don’t want to hear 
about politics if the presentation in­
volves a lot of out-and-out preaching —
you can’t dance to it, and it gets really 
dull if you don’t have some interest in the 
subject. However, an occasional artist 
manages to sneak politics into his work 
without losing the listeners’ interest.
(Bet you thought this was never going to 
make it around to the headline, didn’t 
you?)
While Billy Bragg isn’t exactly a pop 
idol, he isn’t exactly unknown either — 
his last few albums have sold well 
enough in both Europe and America for 
his records to have been picked up by 
Elektra. Meanwhile, he’s the music busi­
ness’ favorite performer to hold up and 
say, look, they aren’t all saps — we’ve 
got a smart one here, at least since 
Springsteen fell out of fashion. Hell,
Springsteen even toured with a band — photo courtesy Eiekra Records
continued on page D6 Polo shirts and politics: Billy Bragg glances back.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—April 26,1988
Normal Heart ID rER.T9,K3 pENIAg
continued from page Di
progress when he is kicked out of the organi­
zation he helped to start.
Although it is a shame to see Ned turned out 
by his own friends, it is easy to sympathize 
with them. Bruce Niles (John Ottavio), the 
organization’s president, believes, along with 
the other members of the group, in a more civi­
lized approach than Ned’s. Ottavio does an 
excellent job in portraying the conservative 
and steadfast man who is the victim of Ned’s 
continual condemnation.
Despite the deeply political aspects of the 
play, there is much to be said for human 
emotions that exist between the characters. A 
scene with Dr. Brookner facing the National 
Institute of Health and being denied funds for 
research of ihe disease becomes very emo­
tional. as she realizes they want to take her pa­
tients away from her. She becomes very angry 
and throws the charts at them in desperation 
saying,“You want them? Take them'. Just help 
them.”
The development of Ned’s relationship with 
Felix, a newspaper reporter, is also a source of 
serious emotion in the play. One scene that is 
both funny and somewhat disturbing is that of 
Felix and Ned’s first date. Ned is obviously 
uncomfortable with the situation and tries to 
make up for this by comparing the holocaust to 
the AIDS epidemic. Felix is very funny in his 
remarks about what a fun date Ned is. Felix 
finally succeeds in getting Ned to relax and the 
scene ends with them kissing, leaving an un­
comfortable silence for the audience to deal 
with.
Their relationship continues to progress 
when Felix comes down with the very disease 
that Ned has been fighting. Their concern for
Allan Byrne, Lance Lewman (center), Rosemary DeAngelis, and John Ottavino in The Normal Heart.
photo courtesy Pittsburgh Public Theater
each other after this discovery is so real and 
touching that it eradicates any pre-conceived 
ideas one might have had about gay relation­
ships and interaction. By the end of the play, 
when Felix is dying of the disease, their rela­
tionship seems very natural and special and it 
is no longer uncomfortable to watch them
onstage together.
Felix, played by Jim Abele, does a very good 
job in portraying an easygoing man who is 
forced to face the reality of his own death from 
a terrifying disease. He is also forced to deal 
with the possibility that Ned gave him the 
disease.
Overall, The Normal Heart was an excellent 
play. Not only does it deal with the compli­
cated social and political issues that surround 
the AIDS virus, but it sheds new light on the 
depth and meaning that gay relationships can 
have. It can be a very revealing experience for 
everyone.
GOING HOME?
SHIP YOUR ROOM HOME!!!!!!
We package any item and ship anywhere via 
UPS, TRUCK FREIGHT, AIR ... 
DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL.
• Stereos • Refrigerators • Books• Clothes • Computers • Skis• Trunks • Furniture • Carpet• Artwork • VCR's • TV's
P.k.g.'s will be SELLING BOXES (We can make 
custom boxes, too.) and TAPE, pick up pre-packaged 
items for shipment, and pick up items to be packaged
at CMU on:
Friday, May 6 • SKI BO - Grey Matter Area
12:00 noon until 8:00 pm 
Monday, May 9 - DONNER - Lobby
12:00 noon until 8:00 pm ?(' o DWednesday, May II • MOREWOOD - Lobby shipping
12:00 noon until 8:00 pm available
7206 McKnight Rd. • Phone: 412-364-7547
ENDORSED BY S.D.C.
Mother’s Day Special
One Pound Fresh Chocolates,
One Greeting Card 
Shipped anywherein 
theContinentalU.S 
All For Only 
$10.00
Will Sell Chocolates
735Copeland at Walnut 
Shadyside 
682-1441
FEAT HrNiv lp
TennsyCvarua Çamma Chapter
Tau Beta Pi extends its warmest congratulations 
to its newest seven members:
Vicky Keston Katsufumi Nakamura
Sparky J. Cavalier III Paul Delano
Richard Pierson Christopher Williams
Jeff Depp
o
>
»
»

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1988—The Tartan—Page D3
tE. 1E0 OU».D PID gTUO,IOE,D NUiUOIEA
This is the time of year when everybody 
goes down to Mexicana Airlines, the only 
airline that passes out Chiclets so your 
eardrums won’t explode when you take off 
and land, and buys a 78-dollar ticket to 
Cancún so they can lay around on the beach 
with somebody they can’t stand and throw 
back Coco Locos till they puke all over their
Joe Bob Goes : 
to the Drive-In :
flamingo-pocket Meskin shirt. This makes 
you feel relaxed enough to forget the guy 
that just took you off afternoons in Urban 
Systems Planning and transferred your 
hiney to night shift in West Coast Manage­
ment Operations and spoiled your chance to 
brush up against Heather Sullivan, the 18- 
year-old UCLA intern who came by once a 
day to file commercial inventory flow 
charts. If it hadn’t been for that transfer, you 
might be lying on the beach with Heather 
Sullivan, but instead you’re lying on the 
beach with Donna “Anything for a Quarter” 
Phelps, who looks like a frozen fish stick in 
a swimsuit.
The fun really starts on the SECOND day 
of your Mexican adventure when Donna 
decides she wants to take the three-hour bus 
ride to the ancient Mayan city of Chicken 
Little, where somebody piled up some rocks 
and was NEVER SEEN AGAIN. This is so 
much better than looking at Donna in a 
swimsuit that you throw back seven, eight 
Tequila shooters, tip Paco the bus driver a 
thousand pesos to drive 90 through the
jungle, and lose two of your molars on the 
way to the sacred temple. Once there, you 
spend a delightful afternoon at the Cafe de 
Azteca, sponging sweat out of your armpits 
and picking giant leeches off your ankles, 
until Donna comes back from the lecture 
about how this was the most advanced 
civilization in Mexico and they used to rip 
people‘s hearts out and eat em, and Donna 
says “It’s just so fascinating how they were 
NEVER SEEN AGAIN.”
The third day of your Mexican dream 
vacation is usually the one where you decide 
to go up on the water-ski parachute kite 
pulled by a speedboat that dumps you on the 
beach and tears all the ligaments in your 
right leg. This takes care of your leisure 
activities through the fifth day.
On the sixth day, it’s time to take the burro 
ride up the mountain to the waterfall, 
followed by the “Get Drunk on a Sailboat 
with a Brown-skinned Body-buildin Cliff 
Diver” Taco Lunch Cruise. Not much energy
left for the rest of the day, so you go down 
to the harbor and lob-cheap souvenir paper­
weights at the people lounging on the deck 
of the Love Boat.
Finally, your relaxing siesta is at an end. At 
the airport you browse one more time for the 
genuine orange-and-turquoise billowy beach 
dresses that Donna has her eye on, and you 
gladly fork over 80 bucks to the pleasant 
representative of the Cozumel Indian Tribe 
who hand-sews every single price tag. As 
you bite into your homebound Chiclet, you 
know you’ve experienced another culture, 
and for the first time you realize one of the 
secrets of history, the true reason they were 
NEVER SEEN AGAIN.
Speaking of ridiculous people in swimsuits, 
Miami Beach is where they made “Police 
Academy 5,” and I was originally planning 
to skip it due to Steve Guttenberg not being 
in it and “Police Academy 4” being such cat 
doo-doo, with the hot-air balloons and 
everything, but everybody asked me about it
Cast of Police Academy 5, emoting.
and I finally went down to check it out and 
Esskoozay Mwah! This is the best one since 
“Police Academy Numero Uno,” with no 
fewer than THIRTEEN people slipping on 
golf balls, tripping over curbs, or falling off 
balconies. The idea is that Captain Harris 
and his weenie sidekick Proctor are trying to 
force Commandant Lassard to retire, but the 
plan don’t work due to reasons I forgot, and 
also they got a new fox in the cast — Janet 
Jones, the blonde that was in “The Flamingo 
Kid” with Matt Dillon.
Absolutely no plot to get in the way of the 
story. No breasts, but extensive cleavage on 
the enormously talented Leslie Easterbrook 
as Callahan. Groin-kicking. Transvestite 
purse-snatcher tackling. Giant attic-fan boat 
chase through the Everglades. Gratuitous pet 
goldfish. Kung Fu, Golf ball Fu. Frisbee Fu. 
Metal detector Fu. Fire extinguisher Fu. 
Parrot Fu. Bad Hawaiian shirt Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for Leslie 
Easterbrook, as Callahan, for going to the 
handcuff booth at the police convention and 
saying “Laveme! Look! Restraints!”; Rene 
Auberjonois, as the jewel-thief bad guy, one 
of the finest dork villains in the history of 
the drive-in; G.W. Bailey, as Captain Harris, 
for dropping his pants three times; Bubba 
Smith, as Hightower, for gratuitous airplane 
door-ripping and rubber-alligator wrestling; 
David Graf, as Tackleberry, for holding a 
shark at gunpoint; and Lance Kinsey, as 
Proctor, for water-skiing two miles on his 
hiney, ordering a Potato Colada, and 
demonstrating how to attack a cactus with 
his crotch.
Three and a half stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
ATTENTION STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
B........... ................................
______________________________=_____
In order to receive information about the Fall Activities Fair 
which will occur on September 1, please fill out the form below 
and return to the Information Desk.
Organization 
NamePosition
Summer Address
Summer Phone
Return to Skibo Desk c/o Anne Witchner

---------------------------------------------------

Not all con jobs pay off. 
Ours do.
Knowledge makes you valuable. As a PC Consultant you bag four 
dollars an hour representing Academic Computing in public 
computer clusters.
The scam. As a PCon you answer basic questions about 
operating systems and applications, distribute computer software, 
report equipment problems, arrange for the repair or replacement 
of defective equipment, and maintain the clusters’ collection of 
disks and manuals.
The attitude. As a PCon you must be reliable, responsible, and 
have solid communication skills.
The sting. To be a PCon you must know at least one 
programming language and have working knowledge of at least 
one of the following: IBM PC, Macintosh, VaxA/MS, or Andrew.
For an application, see Gary Aulfinger in Hamburg 3024. Or 
electronically find the form in ~ga06/pcon.applicationon Andrew or 
on VaxB in SYS$USER3:[A700GA06]PCON.APPLICATION. 
Complete the form using your favorite editor and mail it to 
A700GA06@VB.
Computing Services/Carnegie Mellon UniversityCluster Sen/ices
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
+ GEORGE GEE
SPRING FUNG '88
Tickets on sale now 
Sponsored by the H&SS SAC and the 
Office of the Dean
oegtee
2Epp.Ai.p.AO IA9ETpUY
OIEA rUi».OD IAiK,SIAg ’ 
UAAE,Ai.p.AOD RIKK 0. 
UNUIKU0K. IA aE,T S.rUTOY
p.AO E99Ii.D 0.gIAAIAg OP. 
R..» E9 lrTIK -’o
Additional announcements are available in The 
Bookstore for $2.50 for a package of 5.

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page D5
TNu2 NDr IKNp,iNr uJC2 lA jKi22ps
UTonight’s movie will be...” a show to remember
The quality that I look for in history-making 
television is innovation. I like shows that are 
simply good comedies or dramas without 
doing anything new, but the show must change 
television in some way for it to warrant the tag 
“all-time great.”
The show that embodies this monicker, in my 
opinion, is M*A*S*H. There were so many 
innovations created by this show and so many 
memorable episodes, more than you can 
count. Forget that the characters of Hawkeye, 
Hot Lips, Trapper, B.J., Klinger, Radar and 
Winchester are the best characterizations this 
side of All in the Family — the changes made 
by this show will live 
in infamy.
There are three inno­
vative episodes that 
come to mind. The 
first is “O.R.,” the epi­
sode viewed from the
patient’s point of view—from his injury to his 
dispatch. The second is “Welcome to Korea,” 
the two-part documentary in which all of the 
characters are interviewed newsreel-style, and 
the last is the “real time“ episode where all of 
the action takes place in the half-hour. These 
three experiments proved to the rest of televi­
sion world that the basic idea of a sitcom 
having to follow a set pattern episode-in, epi- 
sode-out was put to rest forever.
The new frontiers explored in M*A*S*H 
should not overshadow, however, the excel­
lent character development — the most basic 
aspect of a good show. I’ll restrict my com­
ments on each character to one sentence (I in­
clude their names in here even though I really 
shouldn’t. If you didn’t know their names, you 
could ask the person next to you):
• Benjamin Pierce (Alan Alda) - It was beau­
tiful how much sensitivity was placed in a 
playboy’s persona.
• John F.X. Mclntire (Wayne Rogers) - Not 
much sensitivity, but a genuine concern for 
people which made him a good sidekick for 
Hawkeye.
• Margaret Houlihan (Loretta Swit) - The 
evolution from brat to genuinely fine woman 
is a great writer’s feat.
• Frank Bums (Larry Linville) - Perfect 
schmuck, but I wish he would have fought 
back.
• Henry Blake (MacLean Stevenson) - The 
fact that he kept trying to be in charge when he 
didn’t have the facilities to be in charge was 
the source of much of the comedy in the early 
episodes.
• Father Mulcahy (William Christopher) - So 
much strength in such a meek man.
• Max Klinger (Jamie Farr) - The greatest 
irony of the show is that he stayed behind in 
Korea after the war to marry Sung Le.
• Walter O’Reilly (Gary Burghoff) - An 
underlying maturity was evident behind the 
teddy bear.
• Charles Emerson Winchester (David 
Ogden Stiers) - The brunt of many jokes, but 
also did his share of the dishing out
• Sherman Potter (Harry Morgan) - Showed 
how people must sometimes adjust to their 
situation, and most of the time that ain’t so bad.
• B.J. Hunnicutt 
(Mike Farrell) - Had all 
the qualities that Trap­
per lacked and had 
none that Trapper had, 
except an underlying 
passion for his work. 
The best of the minor characters were Beeson 
Carroll as Lt. Colonel Donald Penobscot — 
Margaret’s husband for a while (one of the 
most hilarious episodes is the one where he is 
put in the body cast), Alan Arbus as Dr. Sidney 
Freedman, Kellye Nakahara as — oddly 
enough — Lieutenant Kellye Nakahara, the 
Hawaiian nurse, Jeff Maxwell as Igor Stram- 
insky, the cook, and G.W. Bailey as Sergeant 
Rizzo.
Now, I feel I must acclaim the best episodes 
of M*A*S*H. “Best” is a misnomer here be­
cause there are different episodes that repre­
sent the best of each M*A*S*H quality — 
innovation, drama, and comedy. The comedy 
episodes also must be divided into the Frank 
and Charles eras — or, perhaps more descrip­
tively, the Larry Gelbart and Burt Meltcalfe 
eras (the show’s chief producers) — because 
the nature of the comedy is different in these 
two eras. There will be several “best” episodes 
of M*A*S*H, but here it goes:
• Most Comedic: {Frank era) - The episode in 
which they take blood from him as he is 
sleeping because it is needed for a Korean. 
Frank is the only one with the proper blood 
type. Frank dreamt he was a cow. {Charles 
era) - The one in which second class mail is 
stopped, and Charles’ first class Boston Globe 
is the only paper. Charles thinks someone stole 
his May 4 edition and bans his papers from 
being read. The camp revolts by taking every­
thing of his but the paper. Charles comes back 
naked from the shower to find everything 
gone. When he asks B.J. where his things are,
B.J. replies, “I don’t know, but I made sure
1
Great Expectations — Where precision haircutting is a tradition, 
as well as an art...and at 
affordable prices.
M — — Ml mam WITH THIS COUPONI save $2.00 one
3 hT.iIDIEA eUITi,O
I complete with shampoo ft blow style
I 0C*tt T*|25. April30.1988^___________aVCSTtTMKSj
SAT^FACTOrTGUAPANTE E D^
Great Styles Startat...
NfCISSAPV WVll ¦
EHKCTflTMnS
PRECISION HAIRCUHERS237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 687-3500
they didn’t take your paper.”
• Most Dramatic: {Interestingly Dramatic) 
When Hawkeye starts itching and sneezing 
uncontrollably and it is found, through the 
help of Sidney, that it was related to an event 
that happened back in a pond when he was six 
years old. Sidney has one of the most insight­
ful lines in M*A*S*H in this episode. 
Hawkeye said,“All this shooting that’s going 
on, and I get laid up by something like this,” 
and Sidney replies, “Oh, it’s the little battle­
fields that leave the biggest scars — the bed­
rooms, the playgrounds, the ponds.” {Shock 
Value-type dramatic) Henry’s last episode 
(final episode, spring 1975), when he is killed 
flying to Tokyo in his helicopter. The an­
nouncement that Radar makes is still fresh in 
my mind. “A helicopter containing Colonel 
Henry Blake was shot down over the Sea of 
Japan. There were no survivors.” Many people 
complained that they were upset by being 
“shocked.” Too bad — if you don’t want 
shocked, don’t watch M*A*S*H. {Sadly dra­
matic) Radar leaves (final episode of spring 
1980). Sherman’s good-bye is one of the sad­
dest scenes. The going away party is cancelled 
because of choppers — that in itself is a state­
ment on how what has to be done supercedes 
sentiment—and Sherman and Radar must say 
a hasty good-bye. It is still very sad. “This isn’t 
the way I wanted to say good-bye, son. God­
speed.”
• Innovative: Definitely the “first-person” 
episode. They still got the plot of the story 
through, even though you couldn’t see the 
whole camp like on a normal episode.
There were two “spinoffs” of M*A*S*H. The 
reason spinoffs is in quotes is because there 
was only one true spinoff, AfterM*A*S*H. It 
takes place in a hospital after the Korean War 
in which Klinger, Potter and Father Mulcahy 
work. The other “spinoff’ is Trapper John, 
M.D., a dramatic series that was based on the 
character of Trapper (Pemell Roberts played 
Trapper). Little reference was made to the old 
M*A*S*H unit.
M*A*S*H went through a roller-coaster ride 
of time slots — strange, because it was win­
ning Emmys galore while it was doing this — 
until the CBS brass discovered M*A*S*H in 
the Monday at 9:00 slot. (It only took them 
seven years and loads of awards to figure that 
out.) And, before I start talking about the other 
continued on page D6
HONOR YOUR GRADUATE
Find out how, in front of Hunt Library 
May 14 and 15, 1988 
10am - 4pm
-r-5-i88<r-#W
iiii'iSiOII^.'H'iXli') 7<1 — i- r. S. A. i X„
RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 'PHONE:(213) 955-4900!
. A»1' V'x"("
9

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6—-The Tartan—April 26,1988
M*A*S*H is the best of the ’70s
continued from page D5
fantastic nuances of M*A*S*H, I’ll stop my­
self and save you the trouble. Wait for the 
history books.
Normally, my articles end here witlyhe witty 
ending line associated with my first paragraph, 
but since this is my last article, I will list some 
of the shows that I feel represented ’70s televi­
sion. These shows were either good shows, 
shows that represented a ’70s fad, or shows 
that represented the art form of ’70s television. 
Most of these shows were suggested to me at 
random conversations at PHI, at dinner, or at 
other random venues on campus. Here they be:
• Chico and the Man - Good comedy, Jack 
Albertson won an Emmy, Freddy Prinze’s 
story is one of the biggest tragedies ever.
• Happy Days - The original show itself was 
fantastic, with some episodes being surpris­
ingly dramatic. (Started the Milwaukee ’50s 
thing on ABC television, which unfortunately 
made Laverne and Shirley the number one 
rated show for a while.)
• The Paper Chase - Arguably an ’80s show, 
and arguably the best show ever to be punted, 
not ended. Showtime did many people a great 
service by continuing this series.
• Sanford and Son - Made ripple famous. 
Redd Foxx stole the show. Much liked be­
cause Fred G. was the black Archie Bunker. 
An excellent showcase for black comedians 
and performers. Sanford and Son consultant 
Brian Dean calls me “a big dummy” for not 
writing about this show,
• Barney Miller - Proof that basically good 
without much of a story line can win Emmys. 
There wasn't anything unique about this, just 
top-notch acting and writing. Steve Lan- 
desberg is one of my favorite comedians.
• Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman - A very 
funny and unique show. The very odd Louise 
Lasser was a perfect lead actor. Reminds one 
of a SCTV situation comedy-drama.
• The Six Million Dollar Man - And the bionic 
woman, the bionic dog, the bionic cat, the 
bionic sponge, etc. Yet another unforgettable 
genre of ’70s TV.
• The Carol Burnett Show - The best variety 
show ever. The skits on this show are so funny. 
The best ones are Harvey Korman cracking up 
when Tim Conway is at his best.
• Saturday Night Live - Great show — more 
controversial than Carol Burnett — and al­
most as funny.
• Donny and Marie - She’s a little bit country, 
he’s a little bit rock and roll. The most repre­
sentative variety show of the ’70s, because it’s 
real cheesy and plastic. Just like the Osmonds.
• Eight is Enough - Another phenomenon is 
represented in this show, namely families with 
a bezillion people {The Partridge Family, 
Little House on the Prairie, The Waltons.)
• WKRP in Cincinnati - Barney Miller at a 
radio station. The casting in this show was 
second to none. Who else but Gordon Jump 
could have played the Big Guy any better? 
Ditto with Frank Bonner playing Herb Tarlek. 
And Loni Anderson (oh, my!) doing Jennifer 
Marlowe. Drama was interspersed excellently 
with humor, also.
• Columbo - Great detective show, and one 
most representative of NBC detective shows. 
NBC had a monopoly on good detective 
shows{MacCloud, Quincy, Banacek, etc.)
• The White Shadow - Room 222 takes to the 
hardcourt. A lot of shows were set in schools 
and commented on old-young communication 
and inter-adolescent relationships, but none
ATTIEUUETriIC DIBIPAJRTrMIBOT
Applications are now being taken by the athletic 
department for:
•STUDENT MANAGERS for football, basket 
ball, field hockey, soccer, swimming, track and field 
and volleyball teams
• GAME MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONS PER
SONNEL
•CERTIFIED LIFEGUARDS
U,g âmiteff-
©sti«(jl âim ülh<£s<£ ]p©sûHû©iEis 
slhdmM s®<£ JJfum ûaa Hlh® attlh- 
Ü<£itâ<£ <©iFiFû<e®» jrtExDjm âaa 
ttlh<£ gyaaaaii&sflniaiiia» FEAT URS.
sHuadl<sjmiis
ff<s<qTiaâir®(dl»
better than this one.
• Lou Grant - All its Emmys and all its 
controversies say quite enough.
• lDr \Id2 \I66gE-ai8 -I66rF faIF - The 
’70s, in particular this show, represent the 
finest era in cartoons. lDr P,IFe2 and 
Bravestarr just don’t measure up.
• Real People - The idea of corny mini­
documentaries started in the late ’70s had its 
start with this one. Without this show, shows 
like Those Amazing Animals, That’s Incred­
ible, and Foul Ups, Bleeps, and Blunders 
could have never existed.
• Fantasy Island - “Da Plane, Da Plane.” 
Made midgets and Cordobas famous, not to 
mention tropical suits.
• Charlie's Angels - Jiggle television gets its 
start. The only TV show made exclusively to 
help poster sales. Great-looking females, hor­
rible acting.
• The Bob Newhart Show - Could have never 
had “Hi, Bob” without this show. See Barney 
Miller for comments. (Steve Landesberg even 
made an appearance on this show.)
• One Day at a Time - A combination of 
everything — good and bad — about ’70s j 
television. At times, cheesy and plastic, and 
cute up to the point of being sickening, but at 
most other times, good acting and writing 
made this a quality show.
And lastfy, I would like to thank you, my 
readers, for the positive response to this series.
It was enjoyable to hear your support of the 
column and equally enjoyable to hear criti­
cisms. I only wish I could have written about J) 
all the shows you suggested. Anyway, keep 
watching that late night TV. If you do, ’70s TV 
will never die.
1TUgg Dr.U»D E,O
continued from page D1
this guy does it all by himself. Inspiring, isn’t 
it? Wanna listen and be socially aware?
Anyway, one of the best things about this 
being an election year is the fact that more 
people will have some clue as to what Bragg is 
talking about. Hopefully, some of the idiots 
that always turn up at all ages shows to show 
off their outfits might actually learn something 
this time.
For those of you who haven’t heard of Billy 
Bragg, here’s the skinny: he writes simple and 
melodic songs, and plays them on a basically 
unadulterated guitar through a basically nor­
mal amp, in a style that combines all the good
parts of folk and rock. I haven’t seen his show, | 
but I’ve heard that he does a very energetic job. 
And if you’re desperately opposed to hearing 
a bit of overt propaganda with your music, 
don’t go. But you’ll be missing a good show.
The show is next Sunday at Graffiti, starting 
at 8:30 — no opening band is listed, so don’t 
be late. It’s all ages, and tickets are $12.00 in 
advance and $14.00 at the door. To hell with 
finals — go learn something real. j
Also on the concert horizon: Bobby McFer- 
rin, on the 29th at 8 pm at the South Hills 
Theater. P.J. McArdle presents this revolu­
tionary jazz vocalist in his only area appear­
ance; not something to miss.
CAP & GOWN PORTRAITS
Have your portrait taken when you stop in to pick 
up your cap & gown. Even if you‘re not going 
through the graduation ceremony you can have 
your portrait taken to remember your years of 
hard work.
•NO SITTING FEE 
•CAP & GOWN PROVIDED 
•THREE DIFFERENT POSES 
•FREE PROOFS 
•RESUME PHOTOS ALSO 
•CONVENIENT LOCATION 
•ONLY TAKES MINUTES
LOOK FOR US IN BAKER HALL ROOM 131 AND 132 
MAY 11 - 14 10:00-4:00 MAY 15 9:00 - 11:00 
FOR INFORMATION CALL - EASTERN PHOTO - 243-1671
Summer Studies
xm
Need a clue about what to do this summer? 
Check out summer classes at Carnegie Mellon!
The 1988 Carnegie Mellon Summer Studies 
Catalog is now available in front of Warner Hall 
Room 111, from the Summer Studies Office in 
Warner Hall 108, or by calling x6620.
See our full page ad on page 16 of lDr liFNi6 
for more details on courses available.

---------------------------------------------------

maxASSE RMOOM 
Na. Pm,M a vMNT HF
A SERMON... ANP
vM IvBAMO LMCCEEE
BUT TM SORRY... pw>/i... i PRID ENFD you're see HIM AS im GOING
OMAECUNVDSC VCDATFREE WORLP. WITHPLEASE FORGTVE GUILT'Me... nsAse...
DSADYI rr~ \ HCFCCE -^-n EUNVCIILNFAT 
SCTEJ
\
HELLO* GOP KNOWS, PEMOCRAT ICHERISH CRISIS BLACK PEOPLE.
HOTUNE f/ )
f XT—J~'—^ ,v
aar-vBloom County
By Berke Breathed
1 CAME AS SOON ASIHEARP' HOW IS HE?/ _
Hi'S HAVING A UBERAL3r,,
GUILT FIT/
HE FINALLY CONFRONTEP THE FACT THAT HE POESN'TWANTTO VOTE FOR JESSE. PLEASE 
TALK TO HM.
72w/ afneAi/o .. FOR BLACKS PAP" WORLP WIPE,\ we PONT HATE
J
TOM-LISTEN.. .
I..MYSELF, VOTEP FOR AL HA/6 LAST FEBRUARY. NOW 
CHILL OUT.V
Funded by 
¡Student Dormitory Council
THE FIRST BLACK IN 
THE WHITE HOUS6 WILL
KM a coNseRmnve. 
ITS JUST NOT 
OUR TURN THIS YEAR./
ITS SOCIALLY OKAY TV PISLIKe: jesse, tvm.
/ REAUX*\
?M FEELING MUCH 
BETTER ABOUT 
MYSELF WPAY,SON..
THANKS FOR i 
FORGIVING 
YOUR OLP!
W U6c osenWJ6 
KCOAmOvMO Y
I^S V
\
SAY...THERE AREN'T ANY MORE UGLY CONFESSIONS YOU'VE GOT k 
IV MAPS, ^ARE THERE,PAP?/
0, WHAT WEIGHTY 
MATTERS OF tWUC IMPORT LAY BEFORE HA. THIS FUTURE ..AOFFICEHOLPeR f HUMPRUM COWNPRUM. 
I
WHAT'P THAT MEAN? WAS THAT 
A CRITICAL 
COMMENT ? SPEAK ENGLISH /t
WHEN THE CRITICS START THINKING THEY'RE SMARTER THAN 
THE CANPIPATES, , 
THtf COWRY'S fti
w\
MY FELLOW 
REOISTEREP 
MEAPOWNIKS-
•hi*
Xf’lU’Y\r! ,FU SYX1x weEpFEp ,p , 
vnmr/
AS THAT OLP EXPRESSION GOES:" YOUR CAMPAI6N IS IN PEEP PUNG WHEN THE 
COCKROACH SPTTS ON YOUR SPATS ~
\
FRBEPOM. GENTLE 
VOTERS... WE PROMISE 
MORE FREEPOM /T
MYSELF, J RELISH THE FREEPOM TO RUN 
IN AN POUT OF 
FOLKS' HOSES WHILE
they sieep. howBOUT THAT FREEPVM 7
WELL.
WELL WHAT, 
MELON 
NOSE*
IF BUSH POESN'T HAVE HECKLERS LIKE THIS, HE SHOULPt
CAN I LOATHE BILL COSBY ANP HIS
^ \ PUtMUb r"' V/. FOPS*
I KEEP A
MOTLEY CROE CPHIP BEH/NPWHAT ? THE TOILET.
\
J3i ..-n \
Vip WV
•jfih rJ
This is the last Bloom County lDr
liFNi6 will run this academic year.ii
PONT YOU HAVE BETTER THINGS TO PO THAN HECKLING A SERIOUS PRESIPENDAL 
CAMPAIGN f/
"wNY.PN
.„IP SAY ITS 
ABOUT AS SERIOUS AS THOSE OP MAX HEAPROOM, 
RAN PEE OF THE REPWOOP6, 
ZJPPY THE PtNHEAP 
ANP 60M8Y
&ZE2L
GEE.THEY'RE-UH, THEYRE AU, RUNNING TOO, THIS YEAR ?
SPUPS 
MACKENZIE 7
NrFE
LEAPING YOU BY 93 POINTS 
IN THE CBS POLL.
(suitable for framing)

---------------------------------------------------

spots
boyishly
ISO female 
too of same age. 
tee of humor manda- 
[y. Reply box 
JCKOO OVER YOU.
lesame Seed Lover,
female Finch, single, at­
tractive, seeking male 
finch, any age, for fun 
with sesame seeds. 
Reply box BELL 
FEEDER BABY
flacaw, male, 14, a'
tractive, colorful person’ 
ality and looks. ISO’ 
Female Macaw who 
enjoys tropical islands, 
tropical fruit, tropocal 
drinks, the Tropicana 
Club. The song "Copa 
Cabana” and Carib­bean Vacations. Please 
reply box A TROPICAL 
FRUIT.
Very bright yellow fe­
male Canary, 1, looking 
for yellow male. No 
peckerheads. Reply box 
YELLOWBELLY.
Overload 
By Bob Jenkins

---------------------------------------------------

^ EFaihs
J CPONt THINK
Tin IS SERIOUSLY
)IdBWy
Nonsense! I was 
as 'divided' about it 
then as I am now... 
almost. Ugh, what 
a horrible pun.
MJ enterprises had originally intended to create a comic for this issue of The Tartan but decided to “FCGCIIT”.
Freddy Flashback and Max By Doug Lamperski
DuTXT, SINCÉ YXt>
*thc taSt ePiSeA?, I ^
9r
"M
l'Q&àllò; tha-t- o*6> ou^>j^
|~ [ \ |"Tl L\_“I.x Ix9DU
G$nUC
leh y9BxWx IwD
-tfve(ot$t'jh'ip,ijE'P 
bte-te
«5
$9fKRP u7(8 y9OE9O­r D.T 
OEKOF 2
6 VA
Vr'S
« i1.

---------------------------------------------------

llow you 2lB rIi9I Hx? uE8WOfK f
r30ST ¿vKE FAVKV F<?EWCH CHEFS ix>!
s(11
%
2
v>
«AV
3<
«i
co
.S
o3
isi
ISjyor OVEN FRESH
hM””l
NICE TITS!
THE GREAIEST!
THANK YOU! 
PLEASIIALL ACM1
A 0po¿ k^ouU> ticXJ -Vt> <* <oo*np\i>te*YV.
c>w fck op*.
T-v A ail 4,/i ca^ NpaeNOU \ä. ^ ÒOKÌ
Hv*k <\ ass !
¿The^s ¿Ve -t-ta tOorl^O9—9.L/.DO KE".2yf
^so,-toö, Cc\r» in
Ov\ -\V-\r '+e«(or>U£ü¿ )
UödtU *s BcrrtiÄ/ oor 
MOawtj /kr*Vzz«\
^ouflhe^ a^rovJiAo^-N
Ov^fot^C, «. ^jouf^
(34- u -W- 50^^
r "¿72 C\ ) (
rock sWs <?f>+
“Ut$7­................."V^irvk
w" uETK:D
Cm a?0N? ?” ””I 3^Mess>
—L KUNt 1h1s.9 «V fepoW Al«l^t>>'<'ef- 
Z.') Ber«;c - • f^eCo>/<.
sy(*M«el -7
äÄk-tnr-’-^'w... 
<a)TÓ<w\ Ty - áe.^»f*'of Sec'ef
£^„1«, cc¿e-noMfJ soyc. 
9. ) V¿\< A 0*^*r-~ U/lU#cK^e<t |fr/€.
TW
Ose 'AOJf /YY’
t*> ctf&cU jV»*" 0*»>n
V^ovCc lofe s.
Sor^ ¡M» "WW\ \>/ ^¿A,+
5? covrresT^
P agEeK ag O
“tUí- AFg!:h+:1?t1 ta<^X i'ecVN^'^yC.
3^*
o<£*??
i°te .mrd cfos
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8720
ACROSS
1 -- Mahal4 Title of respect (abbr.)7 Groucho's trademark 1-2 Nota --13 College in Brooklyn (abbr.)14 Miss Bryant15 Mimic16 City in Oklahoma18 Commenced19 Bring up20 Making mechanical 22 Green mineral24 Scrooge, for short25 As -- a goose28 Smell strongly 32 Change theattitudes of34 Miss Adams35 Despite37 -- spumante38 Dirt analyses (2 wds.)39 Apiary dwellers40 -- one(golf aces)
41 Skeletal42 Big shot46 Over and over52 Mere's mate53 Pertaining to birds54 Debauchee55 Scheme56 High IQ society57 Nothing58 Slangy food59 Anaheim athlete60 Parapsychologist's field61 Type of whiskey
DOWN
1 Wigwam2 Lend --3 Half of movie team (2 wds.)4 Type of school (abbr.)
 5-Japanese War6 Requiring little effort (3 wds.)7 Ship room8 Don Juan's mother9 Parisian musical
10 -- impasse11 Called up12 Sharp projection 17 Engage in combat(2 wds.)21 Changes chairs 23 City in New Jersey26 Played a better game of basketball27 Large beer glass28 Fish dish (2 wds.)29 Blue-pencil30 German numbers31 Beer container32 Pink wine33 Suffix for usher35 Arrest36 Rhineland refusal 41 Commonplace43 Fasten down44 Make a speech45 Vereen and Casey46 Hindu deity47 --Steven48 Half of a table game49 Facility50 Ex-pitcher Tiant51 Kennel sound
These are the answers to 
last issue’s puzzle
$0UIRTSßTIR§
cuPCAKEPATINAE
AèRAT0RED0MITE
LEANESTNAMETAG
ANINIMIiTE
RES0[WVTmAAR
¦DETRITERSLLS
1¦ANT0NI"1I¦¦
pAINTBRH¦
MAHmASáAPTER
APEPTS0LE
SEMIpR0ANT0LE
SMASHERP0MADED
EARLITw0T0NE
DYKEDSIRENED
These aren’t
HTAJES<?!1
CIGAR
BENELIuAN1TA
APE«ENBEGAN
REA«M0T0RLING
BER:L'BtN
I00sEASREEK
mEI)I!cATEEDIE
N0TWITHsTANDIN
AsTIS01LTESTsÉ
BEESH0LESI-¦
uNYNAB0B
REI1EATI.1)LYPERE
AVIANR0UEPLAN
MENSAN1LEATS
ANGELNoSP[RY£¦

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page Dll
OFF-CAMPUS 
HOUSING
Listings are now available for | 
a number of non-University 
off- campus apartments and 
houses.!
11:00am - 7:00pm 
Weekdays 
& 
11:00am - 3:00pm 
Saturdays
Contact Norma Shaw, Housing Office, 
Morewood Gardens, x2139
46KpeNDp6r aee NDr 2r,r2NrF iN NDr qr.,I..End of Forbes’ season
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to the Tartan
This week at the Forbes Gallery the work of 
Dan Hendel and Alison Safford will be shown. 
Mr. Hendel will be exhibiting prints and paint­
ings while Ms. Safford will show sculpture. 
The artists will hold a closing on Saturday 
night.
Formal issues have always been important in 
Dan Hendel’s work and most intriguing to 
him. He attributes this interest to his early art 
training with a teaching faculty of abstract 
painters. While social concerns and political 
issues concerning human rights have also been 
raised in his work, the focus remains on 
“making a beautiful object.” Hendel explains, 
“I like to consider myself a constructionist and 
colorist working within the context of formal 
pieces. The work develops from itself through 
the process of painting. My goal is that it all 
interrelates.”
Hendel’s work is often built around the idea 
of contrast, as he employs such opposite tech­
niques as hard edge shapes versus paint splat­
ters. “The whole world is made up of con­
trasts,” Hendel remarks. “I try to express that 
with both subtle and blatant imagery. It’s 
about the nature of thoughts and how view­
points often contrast each other. The mood of 
the piece depends on how I feel at the time I’m 
painting.” Using the given “art vocabulary,” 
Mr. Hendel maintains that everything can be 
developed as a contrast by employing opposite
colors, textures and sizes.
Hendel cites such influences as Frank Stella, 
Harold Cohen, Manfred More, Hans 
Hoffman, Jasper Johns and Rauschenburg as 
well as CMU faculty members Jon Beckley 
and Sam Gilliam. In closing, he remarks, “My 
work is always evolving in different ways.” 
Within her sculpture, Alison Safford is con­
cerned with the mood and feelings a piece 
emits. The moods she expresses in her work 
are often gathered from daydreaming and 
memories. Safford explains, “When an event 
occurs, there are many components and it can 
often be complicated. However, the passage of 
time simplifies an occurrence and a few sig­
nificant remnants are what’s left. It is these 
remnants which I explore.” The events Saf­
ford speaks of are usually specific to women. 
Safford stresses, however, that rather than 
thinking of her ideas as strictly feminist points 
of view, they can be described better as “the 
personal voice of a woman.”
Constructed from wood, metal, plaster and 
concrete, the work is often therapeutic for 
Safford as she explains that “the events 
weren’t happy at the time, but are not as 
painful looking back.”
Safford finds the artist Howard Finster to be 
a great influence, enjoying his art because it 
creates an environment “I like art that creates 
a mood,” she explains. “In the future I want to 
start using art as a means to an end so as not to 
be so self-involved.”
Even though this is the last issue of The Tartan for the year, 
there will still be a Diversions Staff Meeting 
on Tuesday at eight in the office.
As always, attendance is completely optional.
Computer 
B-Board 
Puts News 
of the Campus 
at Your Fingertips
The Public Relations Office has created a B-Board 
(University.News) that can be your primary source for news 
about the university.
Umversity.News may be accessed through the Andrew. Tops. 
Vax or other campus systems.
Give it a try1
Public Relations 
5017 Forbes 
29

---------------------------------------------------

“The Best Place In Town For AWing Out!
»
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces 
From Mild-Mild to 
Death Sauce!!
Hr.A XGXj ropo wfe OIKK kj 
sfy OIKK kk 
Hr.A y,ASUaD v OIKK b
PALI ¦
421-WING
Our Ribs?
Best in the City
—Mariani’s Coast to-Coast Dining Guida
MURRAYRIB HOUSE &KÊ.
-p02 » jDpsOr6 • \iF0rsIr P3rspiKNpr2
WANTED
Summer instructors & Course
Assistants
June 22 through July 29, 1988
To teach the following: Economics
Calculus
Pre-Calculus
Physics
Chemistry
Statistics
Academically strong juniors and seniors, 
and graduate students should apply.
INQUIRE: 410 Margaret Morrison Building 
Ms. Doris Haines, Ext. 2153
Senior Send-Off
O
xhursday, Zay \2f e988 at $oon 
C lawn brunch will be served 
under the tent outside of Hkibo
This event is funded by President Richard Cyert

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page D13
•Announcements
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days 
and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information desk @x2107. Phone 
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day).
6th International Exhibition of Botanical 
Art & Illustration. Featuring approximately 
•l50 works from collections in such cities as 
Toyko, Peking and Leningrad. Hunt Library, 
5th floor. Through July 31. Hours are 9 am- 
noon, 1 pm-5 pm, Monday - Friday; 1 pm-5 
pm, Saturday.
Shattered Self: Northwest Figurative Ce­
ramics. Guest curator Matthew Kangas as­
sembled the work of five ceramicists for the 
exhibition. The Society for Art in Crafts, 21 st 
•and Smallman Streets, the Strip District. 
Through June 26.
Featured Artist Exhibition: Robin Kraft.
Robin Kraft’s jewelry is a combination of her 
love of painting and metalwork. The Chicago 
artist compares her work to music; the pieces 
are lyrical and “symbolize time with their 
rhythm, flow and syncopation.” The Society 
for Art in Crafts, 21st and Smallman Streets, 
¦Jfrthe Strip District. Through June 26.
Master of Fine Arts thesis exhibitions. April 
26 - May 2, May 3 - May 10. Hewlett Gallery, 
CFA. Gallery Hours, Ham - 4 pm, Tuesday - 
Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. 
Perspectives from Pennsylvania. This an­
nual regional exhibition will focus on painters. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery. 
April 24 - May 22. Gallery hours are 10 am -
• 5 pm, Tuesday - Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Satur­
day; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito­
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm,
Monday through Friday, in CM’s Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus­
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa­
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-0111.
Tools. April 30 through June 26. 2 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 2 pm and 7 pm,
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm, Saturday; and
2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
National Science Week. April 24 through 
April 30.
The Red Planet Mars. Through June 14. 2 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 2 pm and 7 
pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm, Saturday; 
and 2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm-5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm-5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30
Buckle Up For Summer
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and noon
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and noon
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm-5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm-5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Hansel and Gretel. This classic tale by the 
Brothers Grimm comes to life as a poor wood­
cutter is forced to abandon his children in the 
forest. Hansel and Gretel find (and taste) a 
gingerbread house, are trapped by an evil 
witch, and have only their own courage and 
cleverness to reassure them. Playing through 
May 29. 11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturday; 2:30 
pm, Sunday.
If you wish to submit an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event to The Tartan, 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania / 15213. Send it by 
campus mail to the above addressor drop it 
off at 5017 Forbes Ave. {The house between 
DU andATO.)
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its 
sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.

---------------------------------------------------

Dan’s got fake birds!
-Happy Squirrel
L.O.D. member Eric Robinson ...
A.K.A. “Footloose”
- Mr. 69
Hey John-
Here’s two things to remember:
#1: You must control the Dope, 
and not let the Dope control you.
#2: For every butterfly in the 
world, there’s a mosquito.
Joy B.-
Congrats on GSIA! We missed you 
last night.
-Gay and Proud
To the young couple in Wean 5206- 
That is NOT what Academic Com­
puting means by “Public Cluster!!!” But 
it does look like a lot more fun. Sell 
tickets next time...
To everyone else- Look for full-color 
pictures in your favorite scandal mag.
“I don’t mind if you forget me.” 
-Morrissey
Datsun 1 
Eric 0
Look out Notre Dame, here we come!
help, help
i’m drowning!
air — all i ask for is a
breath of air...
ugh, here come finals...
help, help
air
-hunt library 2:56 am
E.S.-
Sorry ’bout last time — something 
came up. I’m too shy to come to you. I 
think about you, though. I want to give 
you the world, and I would if you would 
come to me; but you probably don’t even 
know who I am.
Tom Adams-
You are great!! LA LA LA 
-Tom Adams
ToATO-
You lose. Sorry boys, but frisbee 
creates the Ultimate male physique.
-Sincerely, Jennifer and Rusty
To All CMU women- 
We use plastic wrap.
-L.O.D.
General Announcement-
Mr. 69 and Mother Nature did — the 
NASTY!!!
Tammy-
Sorry to hear you’re a bitch now. 
Byrds do that to you, ya know.
We got our kicks with Tang Soo Do! 
(Ann, you HAD to have a boyfriend.) 
Thank you Bill, thank you Yu.
-Orange Todd
Diane-
Good luck at Marlboro. We’ll miss 
you.
-Cynthia and Julie 
PS: Mescal cures booth fever
Christine-
I couldn’t have made it without you. 
Ray, Dave & Marc-
It won’t be the same without you.
-I love you guys, KCW
Hey Waddles- 
Good luck with:
A. Finals
B. Papers
C. Internship
-Phil’s Thinner Brother
Send Submissio— oh, 
never mind!
2KUDDI9I.SD
Jobs/Wanted
SUMMER JOB DIRECTORY will be 
available starting April 25th, 1988 in the 
Financial Aid Department on the 2nd floor of 
Warner Hall.
ARTS LOVERS — MUSEUM BUFFS — 
THE CARNEGIE, Pittsburgh’s oldest and 
largest cultural complex, is searching for 
exceptionally superb communicators to se­
cure contributions by phone. Permanent, part 
time. 22 and 1/2 hours per week, 5 days per 
week. Morning or evening shifts. Guaran­
teed salary with bonus. Excellent training. 
Commitment to the arts a must! Call 622- 
8840 from 9:30 am-noon only.
COUNSELORS WANTED—Trim-down 
physical fitness coed NYS overnight camp. 
Great times helping kids! All sports, WSI’s, 
theatre, arts and crafts, piano, guitar, dance, 
aerobics, computers, go-carts, rocketry, 
general, needle-craft, weight training, 
kitchen, office, RN’s, batik, ceramics. Camp 
Shane, Femdale, NY 12734. (914) 292- 
4045.
NEW ENGLAND BROTHER/SISTER 
CAMPS — (Mass) Mah-Kee-Nac for Boys/ 
Danbee for Girls. Counselor positions for 
Program Specialists: All Team Sports espe­
cially Baseball, Basketball, Field Hockey, 
Soccer, and Volleyball; 25 Tennis openings; 
also, Archery, Riflery and Biking; other 
openings include Performing Arts, Fine 
Arts, Yearbook, Photography, Video, Cook­
ing, Sewing, Rollerskating, Rocketry, 
Ropes, and Camp Craft; All Waterfront ac­
tivities (Swimming, Skiing, Small Craft). 
Inquire Action Camping (Boys) 190 Linden 
Ave., Glen Ridge, NJ 07028; (Girls) 44 
Center Grove Road, H-21, Randolph, NJ 
07869. Phone: Boys (201) 429-8522; Girls 
(201)328-2727.
SUMMER CAMP STAFF WANTED — 
Nemma Kaufmann Camp — Morgantown, 
WV sponsored by Pittsburgh Jewish Com­
munity Center. Positions: team unit head, 
camp counselors, office manager, driver, 
kitchen staff (Cooks, bakers, salad staff, 
dishwashers), **Specialists: nature, pio­
neering, ropes course, swimming, lake, 
drama. Applications call Lenny Silberman, 
director at (412) 521-8010. Extension 244. 
WANTED — dependable honest men/ 
women for self-employment on/off campus. 
No inventory requirements, MLM market­
ing, territory restrictions, experience neces­
sary. Be 18 or older. Sell/promote high 
demand personal care products. $12.00 
samples investment required. Details — call 
(717) 386-2594 or write: C.D.C. Suite 5814T 
Village Center, RD-1, Andreas, PA 18211
EARN $480$ PLUS WEEKLY. Industrial 
project, Incentive, Bonus offer, work at 
home. Rush stamped self- addressed enve­
lope to United Service of America, 24307 
Magic Mtn, Parkway Suite 306, Valencia, 
CA 91355.
WANTED: Cleaning person, flexible hours, 
approximately 20 hrs/week at Dean of 
Shady side Salon. 621-7900.
SUMMER JOBS FOR THE ENVIRON­
MENT Earn $2500-$3500. PIRGS hiring 
summer staff in 60 cities including Philadel­
phia, Boston, D. *C., Chicago, Seattle, 
Berkley, San Diego, Boulder, New Haven, 
Cape Cod and Columbus. Career opportuni­
ties also available. Call Kate at (800) 622- 
2202
NATIONAL MARKETING COMPANY 
LOOKING FOR AMBITIOUS JR., SR., 
OR GRAD STUDENT to manage promo­
tions on-campus this fall. Earning potential 
up to $5,000. Flexible part-time hours. Call 
Randi or Dee at (800) 592-2121
SQUIRREL HILL FAMILY SEEKS 
QUIET NON-SMOKING STUDENT to
exchange babysitting, kitchen chores, and 
pet care for room and board. 521-9091
PAID SUMMER INTERNSHIP Short­
term residential treatment center for emo- 
tionally-disturbed youth seeks live-in coun­
selors for boys, ages 6-18. Training and clini­
cal supervision included, no previous experi­
ence required. Employment:June 27-August
26. For info contact: Wediko Children’s 
services (617) 536-2747, Boston, MA
VISTA VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Expe­
rience or education in one or more of the 
following: social research, writing, com­
puter science, public relations, education. 
Salary, benefits. Call Judy Martier, Pitts­
burgh Literacy Initiative, 392-3127
Housing
SQUIRREL HILL huge bright 2-3 BR 
apartments. Minutes from CMU. Secure, 
laundry. $595-725, available 9/1. 371-7017.
2 BEDROOM APARTMENT —
Shadyside/Friendship area, very spacious, 
$425 (includes utilities) 621-7900 or 661 - 
1935.
HOUSE FOR SALE — Oakland. Newer 
two-story brick — 3 bedrooms, integral 
garage. Quiet street, move-in condition. 
Minutes from University. 681 -6604
TEACHER WANTS APARTMENT 
SUBLET OR HOUSE, July-August. Good 
references, call 364-5323, evenings.
1 BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAIL­
ABLE IMMEDIATELY — Shadyside/ 
Friendship area, spacious carpeted on older 
converted mansion in Fairmont street. Study 
area, kitchen, heat, storage, off-street park­
ing and laundry facilities available. $300- 
$425 + electric. Call 521 -9536 or 521 -5799.
REGENT SQUARE AREA. Roomy 3 
Bedroom. Equipped kitchen, above store — 
private. Wilkinsburg taxes. Call 362-4384.
•ROOM FOR RENT» $275/month — in­
cluding utilities — room in vertical du­
plex. Has garage — tidy non-smoker please. 
Call 421-6271.
SHADYSIDE — GREAT TWO 
BEDROOM with sun porch, equipped 
kitchen, air, dishwasher, free parking and 
much more. Long or short term lease. Avail­
able June or July. Only $489. Call now 682- 
7025.
EXCELLENT SUMMER HOUSING —
Charming furnished rooms with private 
bath, Maid and linen service, near campus. 
Call today 682-7025
TERRIFIC VALUE — One month free 
rent. Spacious 1 and 2 bedroom apt. in Wilk- 
insburg/Frick Park area. Easy 10 minutes 
from campus. Heat free, parking, carpeting, 
equipped kitchen and more. Long or short 
term lease available. Only from $315. Call 
today 682-7025 and save.
2 BEDROOM FURNISHED APART­
MENTS, recently remodeled, from May 1 
and September 1. $360/month plus utilities
655-1872.
SQUIRREL HILL NEEDED FEMALE 
ROOMMATE for beautiful duplex apart­
ment. Spacious, lots of light: dine, liv., bal­
cony, garage. Contact Sara x5693
WANTED TO RENT STARTING SEP­
TEMBER —Apartment in quiet, child free
home by mature, considerate woman. (PH 
employee, Phd student, non-smoker). Excel­
lent references. A. Rinchetti, 604 Arlington 
Street, Chapel Hill, NC 27514.
Services
MINUTEMAIDS: WE CUSTOMIZE 
OUR SERVICE TO YOUR HOUSE­
KEEPING NEEDS. Serving Pittsburgh 8 
years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. Free 
estimates.
FOREIGN STUDENTS, IMMIGRANTS
— Don’t take chances. Green cards, status 
change, amnesty, legalization — Call 
immigration attorney George Mowod — 
421-4447. Student rates available.
GRADUATION... YOUR FIRST PRO­
FESSIONAL JOB... Where do you look? 
The Pittsburgh Business Employment 
Weekly. We research the hidden Pittsburgh 
area job market for you!! Professional job 
listings mailed to your home each week!! 
Call 372-9081 for free information.
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­
MER? Get there anytime for only $ 160 with 
AIRHITCH® (As reported in Consumer 
Reports, The New York Times, Newsday, 
Good Housekeeping, Let’s Go, and on na­
tional network morning shows). For details, 
call (212) 864-2000 or write: 2901 Broad­
way, Suite 100, New York, NY 10025.
WORD PROCESSOR TYPING — Stu­
dent papers, resumes, letters. Can store for 
future use. Reasonable rates. Call Kathy 
(826-0458) weekdays after 5:00 or week­
ends.
Miscellaneous
ANYONE WHO WITNESSED 
ACCIDENT on 12/30/87,9:50 pm, N. Craig 
and Winthrop, Oakland, between Cadillac 
and VW rabbit. Call Harry Booth, 678-2300.
REGENT SQUARE AREA. Storeroom for 
rent, separate building. 800 square feet. 
Commercially zoned. Call 362-4384.
PREGNANT? WE CARE! Counseling — 
alternatives — resources — encouragement 
for teens/women in the Pittsburgh area 
communities. »Free» Confidential 24 hour 
careline. (412) 856-4700.

---------------------------------------------------

April 26,1988—The Tartan—Page D15
Events
Movies
Computer Animation. A fine collection of 
30 computer designed latest state-of-the-art 
cartoons. Many software companies partici­
pated in this fascinating collection of anima­
tions. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Burn, starring Marlon Brando. Sponsored 
by Educational Action on Latin America. PH 
£26B at 8 pm. All are welcome.
Special Events
French Table. The Modern Languages De­
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra­
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
flail, MM 103. All are welcome.
Dr. Kathy Hirsch-Pasek, Temple University, 
speaks on “The Origins of Grammar: Lan­
guage Development from the Infant s Point of 
View” at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH.
Special Events
A general Scotch and Soda meeting for elec­
tions of next year’s board members and plan­
ning for the future at 7 pm in Skibo room 13. 
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CM’s Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa­
tion on matters of theology, ethics or “any­
thing else you’ve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask.” Please 
stop by.
German Table. The Modern Language 
Department sponsors a German Language 
table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Golf. PAC Championships @ Bethany/ 
Avalon
Movies
Computer Animation. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Special Events
Explore your Jewish Heritage every 
Wednesday 7:30 pm at the Jewish University 
Center, 160 N. Craig, with Abby Mendelson. 
All you wanted to know about Judism but were 
-%fraid to ask. No previous Judaic knowledge 
required.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modern Language De­
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
-b wP,TDSUa
Movies
Computer Animation. "Pittsburgh Playhouse 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
latewan, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1. ¦
Lectures
k ^Department of Psychology Colloquium.
Movies
Dark Eyes, starring Marcello Mastroianni. A 
man who can’t get his life together. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Eddie Murphy Raw, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon University Objectivist Fo­
rum. Pamela Reinagel speaks on “Reduction- 
ism in Biology” at 8 pm in Breed Hall.
Special Events
Shabbat dinner. Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva­
tions are required by preceding Wednesday. 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
Sports
Men’s Tennis. PAC Championships @ John 
Carroll.
Women’s Track & Field. PAC Champion­
ships @ Bethany.
Men’s Track & Field. PAC Championships 
@ Bethany.
Golf. PAC Championships @ Bethany/ 
Avalon
30 yUO,TSUa \ y,ASUa
Movies
Dark Eyes. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Someone to Watch Over Me, sponsored by 
SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
Sports
Movies
Dark Eyes. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
TBA, sponsored by AB Films. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8EASUa
Movies
Dark Eyes. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Special EventsMen’s Tennis. PAC Championships @ John 
Carroll.
Women’s Track & Field. PAC Champion- Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
ships @ Bethany. Department sponsors a Japanese Language
Men’s Track & Field. PAC Championships Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining
Bethany.hall.
WRNx xop 1I 4laylist
April 9 — April 22*1988
LWTWArtistRecordLabel11CarsicknessTattoo The Wicked...cassette Dysjecta
-12Naked RaygunJettisonCaroline
—3Butthole SurfersHairway to StevenTouch & Go
394Michele RosewomanQuintessenceEnja (W. Germany)
175Algebra SuicideThe Secret Like CrazyRRR
46Za DharshBig Satan Beat cassetteSSS
77Housecoat ProjectWide Eye Doo DatSubterranean
58fIREHOSEIf nSST
289In TheNurseryStormhouse/Coi. .p»u IsionSweatbox (UK)
—10Spahn RanchThickly SettledInsight
2­hk+2 0UiI"H
PROCESM WTO
VOTING weMy u7W4kq; ^ * "HwW
,V , i//^A// li' vWf * ^ sJrrxJi/'&t \i\£ MW vl *e l/x7 I//V/- {/ iV V/ ti V.

---------------------------------------------------

HERE’S A GREAT DEAL'
521-2970
623 Greenfield Ave
Right now, Domino’s PizzaT 
is dealing you big savings 
Just call and get two regular 
cheese pizzas for $8.88 
Pay a little more for the 
toppings of your choice on 
each pizza, and you can 
make a great deal even 
better.
681-1700
315 N. Craig St.
?
</>
Öz <
S
PT
OÜ Q 0.®
NO COUPON REQUIRED
12"
Double Offer (16 slice)
PLAIN$ 8.88
ADDITIONAL ITEMS$ 1.29
1-ITEM PIZZA$10.17
2-ITEM PIZZA$11.46
3-ITEM PIZZA$12.75
4-ITEM PIZZA$14.04
5-ITEM PIZZA$15.33
Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Limited 
delivery area. Our Drivers carry less than $20.00. ©1987 
Domino’s Pizza, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

aN I
X
£-H
tMi:
SUSSI SJOIU9S
N o i s 3 a3 U Í1 I V X 3 I I 7
JiatssopO

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

dossier
L I T E R A T UR E #DESIGN
Volume 9 Number 5 March 22, 1988
CONTENTS
Before Breakfast by Michele Osherow 
Designed by Susan Tribone
The Pressure of Dialing by Bret Molotsky 
Designed by Hugo Cheng
Tanner and JunHee by Marshall Klimasewsk.i 
Designed by Juliette Borda
Track Marks by Garret Yankou 
Designed by Jamie Apel
Sower by Edie Locke
Designed by Jenifer Paniacjua
Preoccupidied by John Zimmerman 
Designed by David Yu
SUBMISSIONS
D.AIETD IDD,.
END
Literary Editors Leslie Griffin, Jim Williams 
Design Editor Maria Carluccio (cover) 
Typesetting Brian Harrison
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student enrolled at Carnegie 
Mellon. All manuscripts must be typed or on a macintosh disk. Please 
include your name, address, and phone number. Due to plagiarism 
laws, anonymous literature or literature under pseudonyms cannot he 
accepted.
Submissions may be sent through campus mail to Dossier, c/o The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, or dropped off at the Tartan office, Skibo room 50.
#

---------------------------------------------------

Before Breakfast
Every evening after the dishes are put away
and the pots have been scrubbed, my mother confines
herself to the kitchen—as if dinner would be served-
through the night and into the morning
until she could call it breakfast. She stands
with a bottle of Ajax looking tired and slow.
I don’t help her now because I never 
had, and she’s stopped asking.
I wander in and out of the kitchen, sometimes catch
her sleeping in a chair—the televison narrating her dreams.
When I look too closely, she awakes and wipes
the table with the rag that lay damp and twisted
in her drowned fingers.
Later I hear her climb the stairs alone.
Feel her silence until she draws a bath.
Sometimes I go to her and scrub 
her back with a wash cloth.
She tells me I should be sleeping.
I’ll return to bed knowing I will open
my eyes to her in the morning, standing
in the doorway with.orange juice freshly squeezed.
Michele Osherow

---------------------------------------------------

The 
Pressure 
of 
Dialing
It’s the hot water 
in the shower that makes 
him scream, and as he settles 
in his robe on the couch 
and fast forwards through parts 
of a rented film, wonders 
why she hasn’t called.
He glances at the phone.
He turns the remote over 
in his palm: call. Don’t call.
To call is to over commit.
The TV talks to him, says 
there’s no such word. He decides 
he hates foreign films, 
goes and gets the phone 
to make sure that it’s working.
The dial tone is a comforting, 
almost female purr. He hears 
the pulse, the distance in this vein 
connecting him to her.
The handset holds his ear, 
massages away the tension.
The system is fiber-optic now 
conversations of light: 
he could hold it all, 
cupped in his ear 
the same way her ringing 
phone holds him now.
For the next instant 
she is his,
running for the phone.
He owns her, all the sweet 
light of her voice, all 
the delicious power 
about to give her to him.

---------------------------------------------------

by MarfaH ft ¡Chm$m^i
They are together and asleep between cotton sheets when the 
phone rings. Early morning bleeds blue through tinted shades.
Tanner reaches back to the endstand for the receiver without 
rolling over. He recognizes the heavily accented voice of his 
father-in-law instantly, though he has not heard it in years. The 
line is thick with fuzzy static. Yes, he says, one moment. He hands 
the receiver to his wife, who is awake and concerned by the tone 
of his voice. He watches her carefully. Her long hair falls across 
her face. Hello, my goodness, Dad, I hadn't expected, yes, what?
Then he sees her stop breathing for a moment, rise to a kneeling 
position, then fall back down onto the beige pillow. No, she says, 
oh my God, no. Then she lies very still, her palm pressed against 
her forehead. Tanner can hear nothing coming from the phone. At 
last she says, Dad I’ll call you back, I’ll call you later I mean, thank 
you, I’ve got to go now. She lets go of the receiver and the cord 
pulls it against Tanner’s bare stomach. She stares at him as he 
picks it up, rolls half over, and returns it to its place. When he rolls 
back, she is still staring and her hand is pressed against her fore­
head. She says, My mother has died, and Tanner looks beyond to 
the shaded window. JunHee rolls away and Tanner looks at her 
naked back. He touches her shoulder and all he can think of to say 
is, I'm very sorry. She is still. Then she pushes the sheets off, puts 
both feet onto the carpeted floor, and steps out of bed. It is 
Monday morning.
Later, in the shower, Tanner tries to picture JunHee’s mother 
clearly. He has not seen her in nearly three years, since the time 
she appeared unexplained at the front door on a clear Sunday 
morning. He had answered the door, in only his bathrobe, and she 
had not even returned his greeting, only asking, Where is my 
daughter? She acted as though she could not understand when he 
invited her in, asked if she would like some coffee. He could see 
her husband sitting in a silver car in the driveway. He was staring 
at Tanner in the doorway. Finally he went and got JunHee and she 
dressed while the woman waited outside on the step. When her 
daughter appeared at last, they spoke a moment, without touching 
at all. Tanner had stood back in the hall and watched. He could 
not hear them. Soon his wife turned and went around him into the 
kitchen. She came back with her pocket book and kissed him on 
the cheek. I’ll see you later, she whispered. As she went out the 
door with her mother, she turned and waved and he waved back.
She looked happy, but also worried, and Tanner remembers 
feeling like she was being kidnapped.
He turns off the water and opens the translucent shower door. As 
he takes his blue towel and begins to dry off, he thinks of how long 
that day had been. He thinks of how he had waited for her all day, 
feeling unimportant and helpless and angry. He rehangs the towel, 
and his dripping washcloth, and takes the folded underwear from 
the top of the toilet where he had put it. He feels that this day may 
be as long. As he puts on the underwear, he thinks of how it had 
been when she came home that night after ten. He was confused, 
and angry, and also relieved. He had begun asking her questions 
and she had said they were in The States for some kind of business 
trip of her father’s. The next night, she said, they had a flight back 
to Seoul out of Kennedy. He turns on hot water to fill the sink.
Then he opens the mirrored cabinet above the sink and takes out 
shaving cream and a razor. Eventually, he learned that they had 
gone to the Litchfield Inn and had had brunch and talked and then 
to some of the shops across from the bank in the center of town

---------------------------------------------------

and talked and then to dinner at Mai Pan’s and stayed there for 
hours drinking tea and talking. Tanner fills his cupped hand with 
the gel and rubs it into lather across his dark beard. Then he dunks 
the blade and pulls it up from his top lip to the bottom of his nose, 
watching himself in the mirror.
He thinks of his wife right now, in the kitchen probably, drinking 
coffee and maybe watching the toaster. When he got out of bed, 
he had told her that she should take the day off but she either did 
not hear or disagreed and began to go through the steps of her 
morning in sequence. Now he is doing the same and he wonders if 
she is also thinking of that day three years ago. The razor has 
caught in his dark beard twice. He rinses it off, pushes the black 
button on the back, and tosses the dull blade into the nearly full 
trash can. Putting in the new blade, he feels the same exclusion 
and anger he had felt that day. He remembers how she had 
volunteered no information, how he had had to ask so many 
questions at first and had soon decided he didn’t really care. But 
he did. He did then and he did now. In many ways, and especially 
because of her parents’ disapproval, his marriage with JunHee was 
as much a separation from others as it was a bonding of them­
selves. They had seen each other all through college despite her 
parent’s shock. They had had a wonderful ceremony that could not 
have been improved in his mind, and again it was without her 
parents. Then they had lived for four years together, he serving her 
breakfast in bed each anniversary on a silver tray, and all without 
any sign of the Kim family. He remembers resenting their sudden 
appearance, and also fearing what it meant to his wife. Rinsing the 
last of the lather from his face, he feels that fear again.
Then he thinks of his own mother, up in White River. Even she 
had gotten angry and had sent that bitter letter which enumerated 
the few times he had called or visited the first year of his marriage. 
He thinks of what it will be like when she dies. It will be very 
different. There will be the wake, and the funeral, and his father 
right there. Tanner blots his chin and cheeks and forehead with a 
hand towel. He would like to ask JunHee how she feels.
When Tanner comes into the kitchen, adjusting his blue tie, JunHee 
is at the table with a cigarette and the Litchfield County Times. She 
looks up at him. You’re going to be late, she says and taps her ash 
onto a small plate beside toast crumbs and a piece of crust. I 
thought you might have drowned, she continues, looking back to 
the paper.
Tanner says nothing and rinses his tea mug in the sink. He reaches 
up to the cabinet above the oven and takes a tea bag from the 
canister. Then he pours the already boiling water over it and 
replaces the pot, turning off the burner. He turns to JunHee.
You’re not still planning on going in, are you, he asks. He is 
hopeful because she is not hurrying to follow him into the bath­
room. She takes a drag on the cigarette and does not answer. 
Tanner thinks that she looks very good this morning, very dark and 
smooth. This bothers him. He expects her to look distraught, or in 
pain. After all, her mother has died. I’m sure they’ll understand if 
you call, he continues.
JunHee puts the cigarette down, and the paper, and looks at him.
It is a very different look than the one she gave him earlier in bed, 
sharper now, and more aggressive. The one thing, she says, that I 
need right now is for you to be yourself, Tanner. You ve always 
been honest, its your strongest point. Don t blow it now.
Tanner does not like her tone. He asks, Do you think I ve lied to 
you in some way?
Not yet, she says. She takes her eyes from him and folds the paper 
loudly. Not yet you haven’t, but you re worrying me. Just remem­
ber, you didn’t even know her
Tanner sips his tea and bums his tongue. He watches her go back 
to the paper, her head resting in both hands, her elbows on either 
side ofthe page. So you’re going to go to work, he says, and 
pretend that nothing happened, is that it?
Yes, she replies, without looking up. I’m going to work, you’re 
going to work, tonight Bart and Amy are still coming to dinner and 
we’ll still have stir fried chicken. I don’t know about you but I 
haven’t thought about my mother for months, maybe even years , 
and I plan on avoiding the thought of her today as well.
Tanner leans against the counter and watches her. She never looks 
up but he is nearly sure she is not really reading. He also knows 
that she is exaggerating.
You’ll have to face up to it all sometime, he says.
She drops a hand onto the paper. I don’t have to do anything, she 
says. Her voice is heavy. This will be easier if you just leave me 
alone.
Tanner looks down at his tea.
There was plenty to do at work and he had just walked in when 
Brian told him one of the SCR-packs on the Bromberg furnace had 
quit. Frank had already checked it out and couldn’t understand 
what went wrong. The furnace was three weeks behind on the 
delivery date already and Tanner knew the customer would be on 
the phone for it that day, as he had been all last week. Tanner 
forgot all about the morning for nearly an hour, until he went to 
wash his hands and the sink and the mirror brought him back. He 
had lunch with Frank and told him everything, realizing as he did 
so that he didn’t even know how she had died, or when exactly, or 
anything really. Frank told him about the day his own mother died. 
He told him about how he had taken a week off, to think it over. 
Frank seemed surprised that Tanner was here, and that JunHee was 
at work, and Tanner felt foolish. Then Frank suggested they go 
back to the office right away and call her, so they got the check and 
paid without finishing their meals.
When he called the lab where JunHee worked, they said she was 
still at lunch. He went back to the furnace and found that Brian had 
located the problem and was working on it. Then he called again 
and got his wife on the line and she said, I’m all right. I’m better 
now.
That’s good, he said, I’m glad to hear that. Then he asked if they 
should cancel dinner with Bart and Amy, considering everything, 
and she said no, that she really wanted the diversion and that she 
would be okay. She said she had to go now, her slides were drying 
up, but he was very sweet to call and to worry.
I am worried, he told her. Or at least, I was.
Don’t be, she said. He hung up and sat back in his chair a moment 
and he was still very worried. The phone rang and, forgetting the 
secretaries, he picked it up quickly and nervously. It was the 
customer calling from Bromberg, and his furnace was late.
When Tanner pulls in, he sees his wife’s car is already in the 
garage. He finds her in the kitchen, in her Hopkin’s Vineyard 
apron, carving boneless chicken and vegetables. He puts the wine 
he has bought in the refrigerator and then puts his arms around her 
from behind. She smiles and he asks, Are you okay?
JunHee nods and kisses his cheek as he rests it upon her shoulder.
I know today must have been hard for you, he says. She finishes 
cutting chicken and pushes the pile to one side of the cutting 
board. Then she takes whole leaves of Bak Choy and begins to 
chop them. Bart and Amy could come at any time, she tells him, 
you’d better go change and then set the table for me. He holds her 
a moment longer and she smiles to him. Then he leaves her.
Bart sits on the leather sofa in the living room and explains the 
addition he is soon to build off the south end of his house. Tanner 
has been trying to pay attention to his friend but he can’t help 
listening to Amy and JunHee in the kitchen. Right now Amy is 
complaining about one of the lab technicians where they both 
work and JunHee agrees with her. She has mentioned nothing 
about her mother and Tanner has silently decided to follow her 
lead. Then Amy comes to the doorway, wiping her hands on a 
floral dishrag, and tells them to come and get it.

---------------------------------------------------

Tanner follows Bart to the round table at one end of the kitchen. 
The candles he had set earlier are lit and the lights are dim. He 
sees that his wife looks very good, as though she is having a 
wonderful and unimportant day. She tells each of them where to 
sit and as they take their places, Tanner gets the wine from the 
refrigerator. He uncorks it as Amy shows Bart the silverware at her 
place and tells him it is the kind of pattern she would like them to 
get. Tanner fills each glass and Amy asks JunHee if there is any­
thing she can do.
Is there anything I can do to help, she says?
JunHee stops what she is doing, a pot holder in each of her hands, 
and looks at Amy. She seems stunned and Tanner stops pouring. 
Yes, says Bart, undaunted, what can we do? Everything smells so 
good.
JunHee seems to snap out of it and picks up the wok in one hand, 
the metal stand in the other. No, she says, nothing. Tanner 
finishes filling glasses and sits down as she carries the wok around 
the counter and places it on the hot-mat in the center of the table. 
She looks at Amy, then. It’s too late, anyway, she says. Tanner is 
reaching for his glass but he stops.
I mean, what could you possibly do now, right, asks JunHee? Amy 
tries to smile. Then JunHee turns and goes back for the rice. She 
stops when she gets behind the counter though and faces them 
again.
Why are you here, she asks Bart? He doesn’t seem to know what to 
say. My mother dies this morning, she continues, and you people 
still think we’ll have dinner as planned. That’s rich, guys, that’s 
really rich.
Then she puts down the pot holders and Tanner stands and goes to 
her. Of course I hardly knew her, she is saying in a matter of fact 
way. Tanner here only met her once, for Christ’s sake. How about 
that for a mother-in-law?
Tanner reaches her and holds her and whispers, It’s okay, baby. It’s 
all right.
I know, she says, I’m sorry. I’m tired is all. She’s a long way away, 
you know. She’s in Korea, for God’s sake. And now all the food 
will be cold.
That night when they are in bed together, JunHee lies flat on her 
back and Tanner lies against her with his right leg and his right arm 
bent over her naked body. He has been telling her that she is all 
right and that they will both take a day off tomorrow, or a few days, 
and that everything will be okay, and that work can wait and they 
were foolish to go today and not to worry because Bart under­
stands and Amy understands and they will all be all right in the 
end. JunHee has been very quiet for a long time and when she 
speaks, it almost scares Tanner, though she speaks very softly.
There’s this one day, she begins, and I just keep thinking about it. 
My father was away, I don’t know why, and I was alone all day 
with her. I guess I was around eight, maybe.
Tanner turns his cheek from her shoulder and looks at the ceiling. 
JunHee goes on.
I remember that night she asked me if I would sleep with her, to 
keep her company. For a while, we lay back to back and I felt her 
hair on my neck. I couldn’t sleep and soon I woke her and asked if 
she would play a game with me. I remember she said it was late 
but one game to help me get to sleep would be okay. Are you 
listening?
Tanner is feeling the vibrations of her voice, his fingers resting 
lightly on her throat. He is forming a mental picture of the scene as 
she speaks. Yes, he says, I’m listening.
I tried to think of a game, JunHee continues. Nothing seemed right 
for the dark, in bed, with my mom. Then she asked me to pretend 
I was getting married the next day and to tell her what my husband 
was like. She really did this, Tanner, and I was only eight.
I believe you, he says.
JunHee shifts a little, so that Tanner can tell she is facing him. He 
keeps looking up.
The first thing I thought was I’m never getting married to any boy.
I wanted to play the game, though, so I started telling her. I think I 
said he’d be smart, but not smarter than me, and tall I remember. 
And I wanted him to have a big nose for some reason. And then I 
said he would have blonde hair. That’s what I told her.
JunHee pauses and Tanner waits. Then she goes on.
So when I get to that part, to the blonde hair, she stops me all of a 
sudden. That’s impossible, she says to me. What kind of Korean 
has blonde hair. Then she starts laughing and I actually laughed 
too. I thought of how stupid that was for me to say. I actually 
thought that, Tanner, just like that.
Tanner doesn’t say anything. He has felt her voice in his fingertips 
and he has heard every word, though his mind has gone off 
somewhere else. He is thinking, This is my wife beside me and her 
mother has died though I never knew her. But I know my wife, he 
keeps thinking, and this is her right here beside me.

---------------------------------------------------

Central park, ’79,
And there’s a guy with saftey pins
in his arms, and I’m bleeding
more than he is because my bare feet
stepped in glass. I’ve got my fix
I
and I’m leaving a trail up huge boulders
v ; /
y * / ' and down bridal paths,
rpassing shits that ain’t nothing next to my big feet.
Like tracing veins, I’m pressing
Just enough to leave marks, tracks,
and the sky’s reflecting everthing
with smoke from loud, overpowered jets.
Garrett Yankou

---------------------------------------------------

SOWER
February made it a long 
time since the full wet 
winds of August blew 
through my window.
I was smoking on the 
sill, waiting 
for something 
to happen when my 
fire said, Let me show you summer 
and I saw myself below 
standing in a dark 
square in the yard 
pointing at the four comers, 
saying, Here is the garden.
I laid a border 
of single white pebbles 
around the patch while 
the air turned 
a sloe-eyed green 
to welcome the wet, 
the leaves above 
me rolling their pale 
bellies up in the thick quiet.
Finger in the ground 
I poked the rows of holes 
like small, empty sockets, 
dropped one round, black 
seed in each and covered 
them. I made enough tiny white crosses 
from the bones 
of bird wings, 
and let the lightning's 
dance show me their places 
above the seeds.
When the rain started
I sat on my heels 
behind the garden's row 
of stones and watched big 
drops hit long-legged 
spiders, their thin legs 
buckling under. They folded 
like tiny gray flowers 
and drowned in the trenches 
made from my bare feet 
as I waited for the garden 
to grow.

---------------------------------------------------

The coffee’s gone but still she sips 
and reads more words from a matchbook, 
a business envelope, bed-sheet tags. Rain 
outside tries to enter, beating soft notes 
on the window, but it only crescendos 
the confining grey roar of static.
John Zimmerman
¦
• ...
V \* v.V'- **xr
i
Preoccupied
Sara reads words from editorials, down 
the column and across pages: homeless, 
leash, vacant, trapping. She sips coffee 
from his cup waiting for the faucet leak, 
a rhythm for white walls and ceiling.
Sitting on the floor only makes the room 
larger. The unmade bed is a waterfall, 
behind glass while her back is turned.
Her bare bulb shadow, cut in the door frame 
makes half a woman, flat and black and still

---------------------------------------------------

o
i
iiN
1WdMB
ugILW
NefKw
Published by The Tartan 
Carnegie Mellon University 
March 22, 1988 
Volume 9 Number 5

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

yiTUOiPIAg OP. D,T9Ui. E9 T.D.UTiP UO 285
Although widely known 
for its high education 
standards, it is probably its 
research reputation that has 
made Carnegie Mellon a 
nationally-recognized 
institution in recent years.
Yet much research is 
hidden from undergraduate 
eyes. Many CMU students 
cannot name one research 
project of their major 
department and can only 
vaguely reply that their 
school is "big into 
computers" when 
questioned by hometown 
friends. That's an excep­
tional fact indeed, 
considering that in fiscal 
year 1987 the university's
research expenditures tied 
education and general 
operating costs at $96 
million.
The Public Relations 
Department spends money 
and time letting the public 
know "What's going on at 
CMU." Unfortunately, very 
little of that information 
filters back to the students.
Hence the origin of this 
debut issue of Features Plus. 
The Tartan presents a high­
light of the research being 
undertaken today at Carne­
gie Mellon. This issue just 
scratches the surface of on­
going research, but we hope 
it will provide interesting 
reading for students inter­
ested in CMU's Other Half.
*
Total Sponsored Research
By DepartmentBy Agency
DeptCostsAgencvCosts
err..................$19,039FEDERAL
CFA.......................474¡Defense...........$39,876
H&SS..................5,812National Science
MCS..................10,9%Found.............15,154
CS.....................21,862Health & Human
GSIA......................869Services ..........6,648
SUP A.....................517Energy................3,343
ITC......................3,570Other..................2,550
MIR.....................8,308Total Federal.....$67,572
Robotics..............5,934NON-FEDERAL
SEI....................13,755Industrial.........$16,211
WPATC..............1,471Other..................12,523
Other.........3,699Total Non-Fed..$28,734
TOTAL..........$96,308TOTAL............$96,306
All figures in thousands of dollars for 
fiscal year 1987. Rounding of figures 
accounts for discrepancies. Source: 
Carnegie Mellon Facts 1988, a publication 
of University Planning.
Inside? ? ?
•CMU 1987 Sponsored Research Figures 2
•CFA develops high-tech music, paintings, 
and architecture 3
•CDEC: Research for students 6
•CMU's Robotics Institute focuses on
artificial sensor development 7
•H&SS studies hypertension and trends
in social history 9
•New lens to aid the blind 10
•CERN explores particle physics 11
•CS takes computing to Warp speed 12
•SPHINX works on speech recognition 14
Editors:
Judy Haraburda 
Howdy Pierce
cover photo by Amanda Cohen

---------------------------------------------------

t
«
CFA develops 
paintings, and
Although it seems the least likely of 
Carnegie Mellon's colleges to be con­
ducting research, the College of Fine 
Arts is actually undertaking research 
right now. Given CMU's technical 
tendencies, much of what goes on at the 
university centers around what can be 
created, simulated, or otherwise altered
high-tech music, 
architecture
on a computer. Still, CFA is doing it 
with a decidedly artistic touch, and the 
final results will reveal much of how we 
effect — and are affected by — the arts.
Machines making music
Although computer-generated music 
has been around for more than two 
decades, few musicians have actually 
included computers in live perform­
ances. "It's pretty unnatural for a 
musician to follow a tape," says Com­
puter Science Researcher Roger Dannen- 
berg. Why not, he figured, make the 
computer follow the musician?
Dannenberg got the idea for the 
Computer Accompaniment system in
1983 — have a computer 'listen' to the 
performer, and follow along with a pre­
written score. At the time, it seemed to 
be the ideal means of integrating his 
main interests, computer science and his 
trumpet, which he has been playing for 
more than twenty years.
Computer Accompaniment is
written in C, which Dannen­
berg calls a "very portable 
language" because of its 
ability to run on small 
computers. The system is 
currently running on an IBM 
AT (previous versions ran 
on the Macintosh). The 
computer is plugged into a 
synthesizer, and a MIDI 
interface produces the 
sound. Although keyboard 
input is the standard, 
Dannenberg can feed in his 
trumpet via a pitch-to-MIDI 
converter.
Dannenberg would even­
tually like to market his 
system, primarily to provide 
funding for further research. 
He sees "tremendous 
applications in music education," as 
well as the obvious breakthroughs in 
computer-aided live performances.
When he began this project, it 
seemed so far removed from CS re­
search that he purposely avoided using 
Carnegie Mellon resources and worked 
on his own time. The irony of it is that 
it's now what Dannenberg is known for. 
In fact, his research has attracted so 
much attention that, for the past two 
years, he has received funding from 
both CMU and Yamaha. Additional 
funding for another of Dannenberg's 
projects — a computer-based piano 
tutor — has also been provided as a 
result of his success.
DRUE MILLER is a 
contributing editor 
for The Tartan.
#

---------------------------------------------------

RESEARCH AT CMUEl
«
Dannenberg, who is a non-teaching 
Computer Science faculty member and 
Technical Director of the Center for Art 
and Technology, occasionally offers a 
class in computer music through the 
Music Department. He is also involved 
in human/computer interaction re­
search in the CS Department.
years later MacPaint arrived with the 
same idea. PANDA's other key feature 
was its 256 displayable colors.
PANDA now resides in an AT envi­
ronment, and work is underway for a 
Mac II version. Currently, PANDA is 
available for public use only in the Fine 
Arts cluster (CFA 321). However, 
Holland says that once the Mac II 
version is completed, it will be available 
in all clusters with the proper hardware.
Holland sees great potential for 
PANDA as an educational tool — Pitt's 
Advanced Graphics Lab is using it, and 
professors who have taken Hollands 
summer course in Art and the Computer 
"invariably want the system at their 
school."
Holland and Assistant Director 
Robert Shank are currently upgrading 
PANDA, and Holland hopes the next 
version (due out this fall) will be mar­
keted more, even though he doesn't 
believe PANDA will be competing with 
commercially available paint programs.
Although it isn't a funded project, 
PANDA programming help is subsi­
dized by the the Center for Art and 
Technology, which also transferred it to 
the AT.
Architecture for Art's Sake
Museums are more than just build­
ings. Or they should be, in the view of 
two architecture professors. Vivian 
Loftness and Volker Hartkopf are 
looking into the varied functions of 
museums and the needs of those who 
use them.
Through a National Endowment for 
the Arts grant, Loftness and Hartkopf 
have been studying museums from a 
variety of perspectives and sources: 
literature, architecture, architectural 
criticism, engineering and environ­
mental design, and so forth. Their
?
A 256-color 
PANDA
When asked 
about this rather 
unusual acro­
nym, art profes­
sor Harry 
Holland simply 
replies "I've had 
the name as 
long as I've had 
the system."
PANDA stands photo by Drue Miller e . . • r J for Painting
The computer-based PANDA program offers ANd Drawing
artists 256 colors and many other features. Access, one of
the first computer-based paint programs 
of its kind.
Holland, who is Acting Director of 
the Center for Art and Technology, 
began writing PANDA six years ago as 
a way of teaching himself programming 
and furthering his work both as an artist 
„ and a teacher. He was interested in the
possibilities computers offered as a fine 
arts tool, but found that existing "art" 
programs were actually geared towards 
graphic designers or computer scien­
tists, not artists. So he took a course in 
Pascal and began to create his own fine 
arts software.
PANDA was originally written for 
an AED512 Color Frame Buffer hosted 
by a DEC LSI 11. One of the unique 
properties Holland used was a menu 
that stayed up, allowing the artist to 
quickly grab and change tools. A few

---------------------------------------------------

APRIL 26, 1988
»
research grew out of the realization that 
architects and architectural critics rarely 
go beyond the look of the building; they 
seldom address the usage of the build- 
6 ing as an art display house.
Loftness and Hartkopf have com­
piled a list of 50 criteria for good mu­
seum design, both in form and function. 
The list covers such varied topics as ac­
cessibility (how easy is it to find a 
parking space?), glare (does it interfere 
with viewing, or damage the pieces?), 
noise and scale (size of viewing area in 
^ comparison with the works exhibited).
They have also targeted 10 positions 
people assume in relation to the mu­
seum and assessed the needs of each 
group. Viewing a museum through 
these vantage points uncovers the ways 
in which peoples' museum experiences 
differ, and what factors would affect 
them. While noise may go unnoticed by
• a first-time visitor, a repeat visitor 
would certainly notice it — and his/her 
viewing experiences would most 
definitely be affected by it. Owners, 
directors, curators, conservationists and 
artists as well have different expecta­
tions of and interactions with museums.
Last year the researchers studied 
twelve museums in depth and rated 
% each. According to their findings, the 
Carnegie Museum of Art (the Sarah 
Scaife Gallery) has an excellent day 
lighting system, provided by the 
skylights. On the bad side, the excess of 
hard surfaces throughout the museum 
are to blame for its excessive noise 
levels, and the linear circulation can 
make viewers feel, quite literally, like
# they're in a maze, unable to leave until 
they reach the end. However, Loftness 
says that “overall, the museum does 
quite well for it's collection."
Their research, which is co-spon­
sored by the CFA Dean's office and the
Department of Architecture, is sched­
uled to end this December. Progressive 
Architecture, a trade periodical, has 
already committed to an article on their 
findings, and Loftness sees publication 
in book form as "very viable." Also, the 
pair will give a presentation at the 
Amercan Association of Museums 
Annual Conference, to be held this June 
in Pittsburgh.
Another project Loftness and 
Hartkopf are currently working on is 
the Office of the Future. They are 
focusing on design issues which face the 
changing office environment.
Architecture students are very 
involved in the research. Four students 
are involved in the museum project, and 
for the office project, undergraduate 
students are developing evaluation 
procedures for studying how "innova­
tive" office buildings perform for their 
occupants.
One of the main focuses of the study 
is learning how existing buildings and 
new technologies interact. Too often, 
technology is "superimposed" on an old 
space — for instance, computers are put 
into spaces not necessarily capable of 
housing them, because qualified space 
doesn't exist. Integration, not superim­
position, should be the method used.
Loftness feels that their work might 
be a catalyst for the Electronic Materials 
Technology Building, an academic/ 
research building on campus for which 
fund-raising has already begun. The 
Chemistry Department has also ex­
pressed interest in submitting a joint 
proposal for a new chemistry building.
The end goal of their research is, in 
Loftness' words, "to give architects a 
platform for building design." That's 
something from which an architect can 
plan a building that will truly meet the 
needs of its occupants.
F.
«
Museums are 
more than just 
buildings. Or 
they should be.
99

---------------------------------------------------

CDEC: Research for students
TERENCE SPIES is 
a staffwriier for 
The Tartan.
While the word research usually 
conjures up images of toxic chemicals, 
esoteric equations, and defense depart­
ment contracts, there is an island of 
researchers at Carnegie Mellon that does 
work related to students. The Center for 
Design of Educational Computing 
(CDEC) is a research center that works 
on applications to improve both basic 
education and the student-educator 
relationship. CDEC is more than a 
research institution, however; it also 
runs CSW and writes applications for 
Andrew that students actually use in 
classes.
CDEC is staffed by faculty members, 
researchers, and undergraduate stu­
dents. The center gives out scholarships 
to students who have good ideas for 
educational software. Right now about 
nine students are working on scholar­
ship projects, including writing soft­
ware, aiding researchers, and writing 
documentation. Several programs have 
been written by students, including a 
genetics laboratory simulation. Students 
on scholarship have gone on to work at 
the ITC and other campus institutions.
Some of CDEC's largest projects are 
videodisk software, PDworld, CMU 
Tutor (now called CT) and Sketch. These 
programs have won national awards, 
helped research in many fields, but most 
importantly, provided applications so 
that Andrew is useful for more than just 
reading bulletin boards.
Videodisks and computers
Videodisk software is a new area 
that integrates a personal computer and 
a videodisk player to make an interac­
tive "movie" that teaches. For example, 
an aesthetics class uses "Art or Forgery: 
The Case of Hans Van Meegeren" which 
allows students to conduct an investiga­
tion of a famous Nazi art scandal. The 
advantage of the videodisk/computer 
union, according to Preston Covey, 
CDEC director, is that images of the 
real evidence are used. Programs 
have also been prepared in the ethics 
area, with a program on abortion and 
another on the right to die. Covey 
says that the videodisk program will 
continue to focus on the arts and 
humanities area.
PDworld is a simulation of "The 
Prisoner's Dilemma," a famous 
problem with relevance in fields as 
diverse as philosophy, political 
science, sociobiology, decision 
making, economics and psychology. 
The program contains all the research 
on the problem and lets the user call 
up that research or construct their 
own strategies. The program has been 
featured in Scientific American. 
Academically, PDworld is being used 
in an economics course at Carnegie 
Mellon and other universities.
Proofs in easy steps
Another project is Proof Tutor. 
Written by Richard Schemes, a re­
searcher in CDEC, and Jonathan 
Pressler, a professor in the Philosophy 
Department, the program constructs 
logical proofs and gives students 
advice on their own proofs. The 
program's importance, says Covey, 
lies in the way that it does proofs. 
There are many programs that 
construct proofs in a mechanical way, 
but they are useless for teaching 
logical techniques. Proof Tutor con­
structs proofs with a set of "expert 
rules of thumb," or heuristics. Be­
cause it uses expert knowledge, is 
constructs proofs like human and can 
—continued on page 16—

---------------------------------------------------

CMU’s Robotics Institute focuses on 
artificial sensor development
Imagine having a 
car that can sense ex­
cessive exhaust and 
automatically close 
the vents when driv­
ing through a tunnel.
Or a car so self-suffi­
cient it can find the 
road by itself. To 
most people, the 
concept of robots that 
can see, feel, and 
smell is a thing of sci­
ence fiction. To the 
researchers and de­
velopers at Carnegie 
Mellon's Robotics In­
stitute, artificial 
senses are a thing of 
fact. They are among 
the many robotic fea­
tures being devel­
oped and perfected 
for practical applications.
The Robotics Institute develops proj­
ects according to the robotic needs of the 
businesses sponsoring the research. For 
example, the United States Bureau of 
Mines needed a robot that could test 
complex navigation software. To do 
that, the robot had to be capable of 
simulating the actions of a variety of 
mobile machines. The result was the 
Locomotion Emulator (LE). According 
to research engineer Jim Osborn, the 
LE's structure is similar to a turntable 
on a unicycle, which allows it to move 
in any manner required.
Eyes that see
Robotic vision has long been a goal 
of artificial intelligence researchers. 
Plenty of students have seen the Terre- 
gator studying the sidewalks around 
Wean Hall, digitizing the image and 
processing it before inching along. The
Terregator is a six­
wheeled driverless 
outdoor vehicle 
which uses different 
combinations of 
video, sonar, and la­
ser sensors to decide 
its proper course. It 
is only big enough 
to carry the neces­
sary computer and 
generator equip­
ment to make it run. 
Control communica­
tions originate from 
a source outside the 
unit, and video im­
ages are transmitted 
to a base station.
So far, the 
Terregator's mis­
sions have included 
strolls around the 
campus and the three-dimensional 
mapping of a coal mine. Eventually, the 
robot will be developed into an entirely 
autonomous, or self-contained, vehicle. 
Research on the Terregator project will 
affect the development of autonomous 
vehicles for use in construction, mining, 
material handling, and the military.
The Robotics Institute has developed 
another field navigation vehicle which 
can be completely autonomous. The 
NavLab, which was built by modifying 
a van for computer control, uses laser 
scanners and two video cameras side by 
side to assess three-dimensional terrain. 
Experiments with shape and color 
detection are still increasing the 
NavLab's vision capacity. The goal of 
the NavLab project is to design a robot 
that could be used for things like 
mapping hazardous waste sites, han­
dling material at construction sites, and 
exploring the surfaces of alien planets.
photo by Amanda Cohen
A robot arm, complete urith fingers, 
hams it up for the camera.
AMANDA COHEN is 
a staffwriter for The 
Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

RESEARCH AT CMU
í:l
With all the 
different 
senses being 
electronically 
replicated, is it 
possible to 
build a robot 
with all five 
standard hu­
man senses?
Left: The Robotics 
Institute is developing 
robots such as these for 
a variety of tasks.
I
The smell of success
As much as it sounds like science 
fiction, it is happening. Any motion or 
sense that helps a human negotiate his 
or her surroundings can be developed to 
help a robot navigate. In the Intelligent 
Sensors Laboratory, scientists are 
experimenting with robotic versions of 
smell and touch.
Basic electronic gas sensors already 
exist and are marketed as chemical 
detectors, but they cannot differentiate 
between gases. Melvin Siegel, the senior 
research scientist and director of the 
Intelligent Sensors Lab, explained the 
problem. "If you build a nose," he said, 
"it has to be both sensitive and selec­
tive."
In order to make the machinery 
selective, he had to develop special 
electronic sensors that would register a 
few different levels of response to 
certain aromatic stimulations. A range 
of differently calibrated sensors con­
nected to a computer allows it not only
to identify certain different stimulators, 
but also to store new patterns of elec­
tronic response. In effect, the robot nose 
can "learn" about new smells.
I
A robot with fingers
Another project being developed in 
the Intelligent Sensors Laboratory is a 
set of sensitive fingers called the "Small 
Fingers" Parts Sorter. It would be used 
for identifying and picking out small, 
specific parts in a factory situation.
Using infra-red light and fiber-optics, 
the fingers see the basic shapes of small +
parts as shadows, use the computer to 
check them against known shape 
patterns, and react accordingly.
With all the different senses being 
electronically replicated, is it possible to 
build a robot with all five standard 
human senses? "It's certainly not out of 
the question," said Siegel. The problem 
would be finding a sponsor for such a f
project. "It could be done, but not as 
well as a human."
I
f
photo by Amanda Cohen
I

---------------------------------------------------

APRIL 26, 1988
H&SS studies hypertension and 
trends in social history
Not to be left out of Carnegie 
Mellon's research program, H&SS 
researchers are pursuing diverse 
avenues. Two investigating depart­
ments are Statistics and History.
The statistics of hypertension
Hypertension is a condition we can 
all probably empathize with right now. 
Tests, homework, overdrawn checking 
accounts — the Statistics Department is 
currently doing research into just what 
causes medical hypertension, better 
known as high blood pressure.
As part of the Training Program in 
Psychological Statistics run by the 
Statistics Department in conjunction 
with the Western Psychiatric Institute, 
Carnegie Mellon researchers have been 
investigating data about the causes of 
hypertension and the effectiveness of 
various treatments, including relaxation 
techniques and several drug therapies.
According to the National Institute 
of Mental Health-funded study, blood 
pressure readings taken in doctors' 
offices tend to be inaccurate and cannot 
reflect the fluctuations in pressure 
which occur throughout the day. A part 
of the Biostatistics branch of the depart­
ment has been directed at producing a 
24-hour blood pressure cuff to monitor 
these fluctuations in order to provide 
better diagnoses and better information 
about what triggers changes in blood 
pressure. The University of Pittsburgh 
plans to use the device in a coronary 
disease control program.
Other programs in Biostatistics 
include studies investigating body 
rhythms such as temperature and 
hormonal cycles and their effects on 
diseases such as depression.
On a more political note, Dean Steve 
Fienberg and Associate Dean Jay Devine 
are involved in a project to correct the
census using statistical methods. The 
census currently fails to take into 
account full numbers of some segments 
of the population such as illegal aliens 
and certain minorities. In a recent court 
case, it was decided not to use the 
method despite the fact that there is 
considerable evidence to suggest the 
validity of the method.
Another interesting project in the 
department involves the use of com­
puter graphics to analyze statistical 
data>-The project involves converting 
algorithmic output into moving video 
images which can be viewed in order to 
witness the rates and movements of the 
algorithm. Graphics are also being used 
for'image restoration by predicting what 
the image should look like using 
statistical correlation.
Historians trace social trends
The History Department's research is 
broken up into two main focuses, social 
history and applied history. Social 
history is the study of the activities and 
beliefs of the masses, while applied, or 
policy-relevant, history uses historical 
evidence to help inform people about x 
current policy issues and trends.
The social history branch of the de­
partment has a variety of interesting 
projects in the works.
Assistant Professor Lizabeth Cohen 
is currently working on a book which 
discusses the impact of mass culture and 
consumer pressures such as advertising 
on the working class of Chicago during 
the 1920s and '30s. Cohen hopes to 
determine how much these big forces 
changed the beliefs and attitudes of the 
people, and how much of their original 
ideas they were able to maintain.
Assistant Professor Mary Lindemann 
will soon be coming out with a book 
—continued on next page—
ERIKA PETERSON is 
the managing editor 
of The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

RESEARCH AT CMU
New lens to aid the blind
JUDY HARABURDA 
is a features co-editor 
of The Tartan.
Ever wonder how deep-sea fish see at 
depths of 500-1000 feet? Studying their 
vision systems has led to the develop­
ment of a lens that offers the legally 
blind the opportunity to see.
Researchers and 
scientists alike 
should "work 
quietly and industri­
ously," trying to 
understand the 
world they live in, 
then apply what 
they learned,
explains Biological Sciences Professor 
Jerome Wolken.
Wolken certainly applied this phi­
losophy in developing a new kind of 
lens based on the optics of light sensitiv­
ity. He applied his knowledge of how 
visible light affects living systems and of 
the vision systems of deep sea fish to 
create a pear-shaped lens that is 10 times 
more light-sensitive than a camera lens.
For ten years, Wolken has been 
studying the sensitive vision systems of 
marine animals to design his device.
Most deep sea organisms have a large 
spherical lens with a certain geometric 
relationshiop between the curvatures of 
the top and bottom to capture light.
While living at depths of 500-1000 feet 
in almost total darkness, their eye lenses
Social issues in history
evolved to gather short flashes of light 
emitted by other fish as they move.
The pear-shaped lens enhances the 
light-gathering capability of the eye and 
could then serve as an aid for cataract 
patients and could be used as trans­
plants if made of a material compatible 
with human tissue. It offers the legally 
blind the opportunity to see.
The recently patented lens is cur­
rently being tested at clinics and schools 
for the handicapped in Pittsburgh and 
Philadelphia.
Wolken's research may also be 
applied to photography, optical scan­
ning for computers, solar collection, 
astronomy and robotics.
—continued from previous page—
detailing popular health practices 
during the Eighteenth century in 
Germany. This was a turning point in 
popular medical practices because 
people were rapidly turning away from 
traditional medical treatments such as 
magic and shamanism and towards new 
practice including scientific and other 
channels.
Professor John Modell is researching 
the changes that have occurred in ado­
lescent dating and sexual behavior over 
the last 50 years, and has a book on the 
subject due out in about a year and a
half. Finally, Department Head Peter 
Stearns is studying the way in which 
Americans have labeled, treated, and 
reacted to unpleasant emotions such as 
jealousy and anger. He is currently 
working on a book about the history of 
anger.
In the applied history branch of the 
department, several researchers are ex­
ploring issues very relevant to everyday 
life and social relations.
Professor Daniel Resnick is currently 
working on discovering the historical 
basis for educational assessments and
—continued on page 15—

---------------------------------------------------

APRIL 26, 1988
t
fundamental level.
ÉliteiiipssssSS
CERN explores particle physics
Carnegie Mellon physicists are part 
of an international group of 1500 
physicists called Conseil European pour 
la Recherche Nucleaire (CERN) in 
Geneva, Switzerland. They are using 
LEP, a large electron positron collider 
located in a tunnel 18 miles in circum­
ference 150-500 feet below the earth, to 
try to answer some of the questions 
particle physics poses.
Particle physicists study parts of the 
atom's nucleus by smashing the parts of 
the nucleus into smaller pieces. High- 
powered accelerators with supercon­
ducting magnets whirl sub-atomic 
particles in opposite directions around 
underground rings called colliders.
They then use sophisticated devices 
to gather data about what the collisions 
generate. After splitting the atom in the 
mid-forties, scientists discovered that 
the nucleus could be broken down 
further into protons, neutrons and 
electrons. Protons and neutrons, in turn, 
could be broken into "quarks," smaller 
elements whose name, taken from a 
word in James Joyce's novel Finnegan's 
Wake, means enigmatic things.
The Standard Model developed by 
physicists outlines three of the four 
basic forces in nature — the nuclear 
force binding protons and neutrons in 
the nucleus, the electromagnetic force 
between particles that carry an electric 
charge, and the weak force involved in 
the breakup or decay of particles. The 
CERN physicists are particularly 
interested in searching for two particles 
predicted in the Model, but not yet 
found — a sixth type of quark and the 
Higgs boson, a special particle required 
for the unification of electromagnetic 
and weak forces.
Nobel prize-winning physicist 
Samuel Ting heads the Carnegie Mellon 
team, consisting of Professors Arnold
Engler and Robert Kraemer, Assistant 
Professors Thomas Ferguson and 
Helmut Vogel and a group of post­
doctoral and graduate students. They 
are one part of the L3 collaboration 
building parts of a detector to record 
and analyze the experiments at LEP.
The $200 million detector will 
analyze the particles produced when the 
accelerated positrons and electrons 
collide. Factors such as direction, mass, 
energy, time of passage and charge will 
be measured by using the electrical dis­
turbance caused by the passage of a 
charged particle. Determining the type 
of each of the particles produced, 
however, will be difficult.
In April 1987 the Carnegie Mellon 
group sent its part of the device, which 
took over a year to construct, to CERN 
for testing.
Experiments such as those con­
ducted by CERN are a step toward the 
projected $4.4 billion Superconducting 
Super Collider (SSC). When the SSC 
becomes reality, its capabilities aiuksa^^^ 
tremendous energy will advance 
particle physics and
JUDYHARABURDA 
is a Tartan features 
co-editor.

---------------------------------------------------

m
RESEARCH AT CMU
DUSTIN FRAZIER is 
The Tartan's produc­
tion manager.
i
CS takes computing to Warp speed
Imagine having the immense power 
of a Cray supercomputer sitting on your 
desktop, packed into a unit smaller than 
the average personal computer.
Sound impossible? Perhaps, but with 
the help of General Electric, Intel 
Corporation, and the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency (DARPA), 
professors and students in Carnegie 
Mellon's Computer Science department 
are working to bring 
these capabilities 
down to a personal 
level.
Using a custom- 
designed computer 
named Warp,
Computer Science 
researchers use a 
type of computer 
architecture called 
"parallel process­
ing" to achieve 
speeds which rival 
and even beat the 
Cray XMP-48 in 
many applications.
Basically, parallel 
processing is 
analogous to having 
many individual 
computers work in 
tandem on the same 
problem, dividing it into discrete 
segments which can be processed 
simultaneously by each.
Dr. H. T. Kung, a principal Warp 
investigator, notes that this type of 
architecture will eventually lead to the 
highest efficiency and speed for high- 
power computing. "Basically," he says, 
"individual processor speed is ulti­
mately limited by the speed of light." 
Light (and electrons) can only go so fast, 
and when that limit in a computer is 
reached, other methods must be used to
increase speed. "That's where parallel 
processing comes in," he adds. By giving 
each processor a certain part of the job, 
the process can be finished in record 
time. Efficiency is limited only by the 
number of processors working together 
and the efficiency of the program 
running them.
Right now, Warp consists of ten 
processor boards connected in a linear
array, each custom designed here at 
Carnegie Mellon and packing ten times 
the power of a Vax mainframe com­
puter. At this time, the department is 
working to increase the number of 
boards to twenty, providing them with 
even more speed and power. "Eventu­
ally," Kung explains, "we'll be able to 
use one hundred or even one thousand 
processors together."
The system hardware is arranged 
according to the concept of "distributed 
memory," which gives each processor its
i
J

---------------------------------------------------

own area of program and data memory 
to work with. This design philosophy 
was chosen over the older "shared 
memory'' concept, because, with each 
processor accessing the same area of 
memory, overall speed can be greatly 
limited. Instead, the boards communi­
cate with one another using a simple 
message system. Thus, when a particu­
lar processor needs more information or 
finishes a specific job, it can request or 
pass data to its neighboring processors.
Along with its speed advantage, 
Warp is proving to be a very cost- 
effective alternative to current super­
computer technology. While the cost of 
comparable Cray computer systems can 
reach into the tens of millions, a com­
plete Warp system sells for around 
$350,000. This can mean a huge cost 
break for universities and corporations, 
with very little increase in programming 
difficulties. Already, twenty units have 
been built and sold to various compa­
nies and university departments.
According to Kung, initial concerns 
about the complexity of mapping 
complicated problems onto a parallel 
processing system were a little exagger­
ated. "Mapping problems onto a 
parallel system is easy," says Kung, 
noting that the newness of the entire 
system proves to be a bigger problem. 
Since this technology has only been 
around for a few years, libraries of 
software have not yet grown to a 
substantial size. "We are working hard 
to share programs with others working 
on Warp, but the library is still fairly
small," added Kung.
WARPING into other research
Warp is providing the backbone for 
a number of university research proj­
ects. NAVLAB, a driverless van con­
trolled and directed by two Warp units, 
slowly traverses the roads and paths on 
campus. The van uses both color visual 
information and sensory data about 
surrounding objects processed by Warp 
to keep itself on track. In addition, Warp 
is being utilized for other image proc­
essing applications in the Electrical and 
Computer Engineering department. The 
Biological Sciences Department is now 
using Warp to do complex Monte Carlo 
simulations which model the movement 
of molecules in live systems. For appli­
cations like these, Warp's raw speed is 
nearly indispensable.
Although current Warp units are still 
considerably larger than a personal 
computer, measuring about eight feet 
tall and two feet square, the Computer 
Science Department has contracted with 
Intel Corp. to shrink current processor 
boards into a single VLSI (Very Large 
Scale Integration) chip called iWarp, 
which will contain over 700,000 tiny 
transistors when completed. With that, 
they hope to be able to provide current 
"Warp speed" in a desktop unit.
According to Dr. Kung, desktop 
parallel processing will create a shock- 
wave in computer science and computer 
engineering. "We will be seeing desk­
top Warp systems by the early 1990's. I 
have no doubt."
In 1986, Carnegie Mellon ranked
K Gâ tllfC t äC t ? nationally in industrial-sponsored research.
Source: Carnegie Mellon Facts 1988

---------------------------------------------------

RESEARCH AT CMUICI
SPHINX
DUSTIN FRAZIER is 
The Tartan's produc­
tion manager.
Right: The Egyptian 
Sphynx may have posed 
riddles, hut the Com- 
puter Science Depart- 
ment is hoping 
SPHINX will recognize 
speech.
works on speech recognition
Ever since the 
very first truly useful 
computers were pro­
duced back in the 
1950's, computer sci­
entists have been 
trying to program 
them to recognize 
human speech.
Today, that goal 
is still in the minds of 
many computer re­
searchers, including a group of students 
and professors here at Carnegie Mellon. 
The Computer Science Department's 
speech recognition (SR) program is one 
of the largest and most innovative in the 
nation. One small part of this project, 
led by Dr. Kai Fu Lee, is a program 
called SPHINX.
SPHINX, a concept which formed 
the core for Dr. Lee's doctoral disserta­
tion, has developed over the past two 
years to become one of the department's 
most successful programs to date. With 
funding from the Defense Advanced
Research Projects 
Agency (DARPA), it 
has overcome many 
of the problems en­
countered with 
earlier SR systems.
The main features 
of the SPHINX 
system are quite im­
pressive. Its translat­
ing algorithm is 
completely speaker- 
independent, allowing multiple users to 
use the system without separate proc­
esses for each. Also, users can use 
natural speech patterns, eliminating the 
need to speak in monotone or use short, 
separated phrases. However, despite 
these powerful features, SPHINX still 
manages to keep a very impressive vo­
cabulary.
To train the system for more and 
more complex speech patterns, Dr. Lee 
and his group employ a training process 
known as the Hidden Markov model. 
Conceptually, this process reduces
Can you imagine de­veloping a computer program that recog­nizes natural human speech patterns? The CS department can.
photo by Dustin Frazier

---------------------------------------------------

APRIL 26, 1988
general speech and sound patterns 
down to a set of probability functions. 
The algorithm first translates the sen­
tences into a list of symbols, each of 
which represents an individual pho­
neme, or speech sound. The algorithm 
then uses the probability functions 
created for each phoneme to choose the 
best (most likely) path in the model.
This symbolic process has proved to be 
one of the most successful SR techniques 
to date.
The number of uses for speech 
recognition systems is limited only by 
the imagination. One of the most useful 
applications which has been under 
development for some time offers 
speech recognition capabilities to the 
handicapped. For those who have 
either limited or no use of their hands, 
SR can provide an invaluable tool for 
such tasks as word processing, pro­
graming, or machines control. Also, 
deaf may one day benefit by a system 
which translates another's speech into 
words on a screen, eliminating the need 
for lip-reading.
Another useful application which is 
in the works is a highly versatile lan­
guage translation system. Basically, an 
SR system such as this would accept 
natural speech in one language, use a 
separate algorithm to translate the text 
to another language, and output either 
written text or natural speech in that 
language. Speech recognition could 
even one day replace answering ma­
chines or secretaries, allowing a com­
puter to accept voice commands or dic­
tation directly.
Although the SPHINX program has 
been highly successful thus far, more 
versatility and power is still in the 
works. Dr. Lee and the SPHINX team 
are currently working toward an unlim­
ited vocabulary for the system. They
H&SS explores 
topics relevant to 
everyday life
—continued from page 10—
the implications of those tradi­
tions.
Professor Joel Tarr is research­
ing the relevance of past policies 
regarding environmental and 
political problems in setting 
policies for action today.
Professor Steven Schlossman is 
conducting a large-scale study of 
the California juvenile justice 
system and how its past perform­
ance may be reflected in current 
problems.
Finally, new department 
member Lynn Eden is exploring 
American security policy since 
World War II, its effect on military 
strategy and MX Missile thinking, 
and the reliance on nuclear shield 
technology.
would also like to eventually expand the 
versatility of the grammar algorithm, as 
it does not currently accept higher-level 
grammar rules such as those used in 
everyday English.
Despite the group's optimism about 
its success rate thus far, Dr. Lee is still 
realistic about the future of speech 
recognition. He concedes that speech 
recognition is still very much a research 
field. Although fairly reliable systems 
may be created for specific applications, 
overall he still believes that “it will be 
many years before you see speech 
recognition commercially available."
u
Speech recogni­
tion could even 
one day replace 
answering ma­
chines or secre­
taries
99
%

---------------------------------------------------

RESEARCH AT CMU
ira
CDEC combines research and education
a
CT is useful 
for just whip­
ping up a 
graph for a 
research paper.
99
—continued from page 6—
give humans advice on problems. A 
related tool is a translator that builds 
logical statements in symbolic notation 
from English sentences.
Sketch is a tutor for physics prob­
lems and equation graphing written by 
Jill Larkin (professor of psychology, and 
CDEC research scientist), Carol Scheftic 
(CDEC research scientist), David Trow­
bridge (research scientist at CDEC) and 
David Yee (a former student and now a 
CDEC programmer). Sketch also won a 
distinguished software award last year.
A new language
One of the largest projects done by 
CDEC is CMU Tutor (now called CT), a 
complete programming language that 
does graphics, animation, text process­
ing, and other related tasks. CMU Tutor 
has two features that make it an impor­
tant piece of software. First, it is port­
able. If a professor writes a demonstra­
tion program on Andrew, the same 
program will run on the IBM and
Macintosh version of CMU Tutor so that 
one program is useful on many comput­
ers.
Second, CT provides "incremental 
compiling," meaning that if you correct 
a program, the changes you make show 
up instantly without needing to reproc­
ess the whole program. CT is also 
designed with on-line documentation 
(one neat feature: examples can be "cut" 
out of the manual and "pasted" into 
your program). In short, CT provides an 
easy to use, powerful programming 
environment for Andrew, the IBMs and 
Macintoshes.
CT is useful for just whipping up a 
graph for a research paper or a full 
blown program (artificial intelligence 
programs have been written in it).
CDEC will be teaching a course in CT 
for those wishing to learn the program.
CDEC is truly the student's research 
center, both because students do re­
search there, and all the work there is 
done to make your education more 
enjoyable and more effective.
\\
The Tartan’s 
newest monthly 
supplement!
«
