Volume 88, Issue 3THE TARTAN
'
SDC requests policy change in dormitory microwave use
Jennifer Ureo/Tartan Photo EditorNegotiations continue...
Ureor/T at nr/PhEr deiFamrrT psRr/scRhascF Cshas yaEcF () i/aRrTRrl cR ka/orT 
csl Ua/rwaal bPrsMrT H.M/Tlcm ctRr/saas, fr/rB c Mshas wa/ur/ EcFFT vUC 
GMstch/gA .r .cT orrs wa/uhsV whR.aMR c EasR/cER ThsEr IaPreor/,
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The idea of dorm rooms having micro­
waves appears to be one step closer to 
reality this week. Student Dormitory 
Council (SDC) unanimously passed a 
proposal Wednesday night requesting 
that the Housing Office change its 
existing policy banningmicrowaves 
from dormitory rooms.
The proposal, presented by Erik 
Larson, a fourth year architecture 
and industrial design student, and 
Laurie Modell, a junior psychology 
student, states some of the reasons 
SDC feels the student body should 
be allowed to have microwaves.
The issue began heating up this 
year during residence assistant 
training. It was discovered that many of 
the RAs were not in favor of the policy 
and therefore were not going to enforce 
it. Larson began drafting the proposal 
and discussing the situation with both 
Tim Foster, the assistant director of 
Housing for Residence Life, andMichael 
Murphy, the dean of Student Affairs. 
Modell joined him when SDC got in­
volved.
The issue of microwaves has been
around CMU for years. Previously, it 
had been mentioned in the Student Sen­
ate and, informally, in SDC. Last year, 
SDC passed a motion to allow micro­
waves in residence halls. The Housing 
Office decided to give every dormitory 
building a common microwave.
Over the summer, the residence halls
“This is the first time we 
have sat down and coun­
tered everything that they 
have told us over the years.” 
— Erik Larson
were rewired to accommodate for extra 
power. “We wanted to make sure that 
each building had a microwave,” said 
Amy Ginther, assistant director of Hous­
ing for Operations. Ginther went on to 
say that all the wiring has been com­
pleted, yet not all the microwaves have 
been installed. Larson disagreed, say­
ing, “Roselawn Terrace was supposed to 
be rewired and it hasn’t,” he say s. “That’s 
an area that already accommodates mi­
crowaves.
One of the school’s arguments has 
been that, accordingto the policy, “Cook­
ing in dormitory rooms is strictly pro­
hibited ... this is a violation of city fire 
codes." The proposal argues that 
microwaving is not a harmful form of 
cooking. The Pittsburgh Fire Depart­
ment agrees. They say the fire 
codes do allow for microwaves in 
dorm rooms.
The school also argues that 
bringing microwaves into the 
dorm room would produce an ex­
cess of food waste. The proposal 
argues that food is already in the 
rooms since refrigerators are le­
gal. Larson says that most 
=== microwavable food is disposable 
and would not present a problem. 
“Food’s not illegal, microwaves are. Mi­
crowaves are not producing food waste, 
food is.”
The microwave issue is being taken 
seriously for the first time. Larson says, 
“This is the first time we have sat down 
and countered everythingthatthey have 
told us over the years.” Larson and 
Modell have worked hard on this pro­
posal and that may very well be what 
Please see MICROWAVE, page 3
Extended but limited 
hours starts Hunt sit-in
By FRANK MICHELS
1artan News Editor
. Due to the reactions of Stu­
dent Senate and individual stu­
dents, especially undergradu­
ates, Dr. Charles Lowry, uni­
versity librarian, made an an­
nouncement Thursday to extend 
^ the hours of the Hunt Library 
from 12 to 3 am, effective Sun­
day, September 19. However, 
only the basement and the first 
floor of the library will remain 
open after midnight.
, , This decision did not stop 
' about 35 students from staging 
a sit-in on Thursday night on 
the third floor of the library. 
The sit-in was originally in­
tended to protest the early clos­
ing of the library.
; | CIT Senator Greg Haverkamp, 
jivho led the sit-in, met with other 
students at the Fence at 11:30 
including Student Govem- 
ent President David Wolpert 
d Student Government Trea- 
rnrer David Martin.
When Campus Police arrived,
sue the Constitutional guaran­
tees of free assembly and ex­
pression.”
According to Haverkamp, 
there had been a memo circulat­
ing around library offices that a 
sit-in was going to take place 
that night, and therefore, the 
campus was aware of the situa­
tion.
Later that night, Ignatios 
Alexander, head of administra­
tive services for University Li­
braries, was brought in to the 
sit-in to speak with the students 
present. After a half hour dis­
cussion of the reasoning behind 
the decision to limit the func­
tionality of the library after mid­
night, a decision was made to 
allow the protestors to remain 
until 3 am.
“I wanted to make sure that 
things were orderly. It would 
have been nice if everyone stayed 
on the first floor and lower level, 
but I understand the statement 
that the students are making,” 
said Alexander.
According to Lowry’s an-
JHaverkamp said that the sit-in nouncement, the decision to 
¡was a protest, students exerting shorten Hunt Library’s hours 
¡the right to demonstrate. “We was based on “direct observa­
re exerting our right to demon- tion of student use,” but Lowry 
strate as outlined in the Student was “surprised by the level of 
landbook,” said Haverkamp. concern associated with this 
“We’d like to pass on our list of change in hours.” 
lemands to someone. In the Lowry said that the $15,000 
(meantime, we’re demonstrating that normally kept the library
[against] the curtailment of the 
f hours of Hunt Library, just as 
¦the University urges and sup­
ports its students’ efforts to pur-
open during the early morning 
hours could have been used more 
wisely. ‘This amount would pur- 
Please see HOURS, page 3
UCC becomes Cyert Hall in dedication ceremony honoring former CMU president
By MARKUS KASSBOHRER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The University Computing 
Center (UCC) was rechristened 
Richard M. Cyert Hall in honor of 
the University’s sixth president 
last Friday afternoon. The cer­
emony was held in a tent be­
tween Warner Hall and Cyert 
Hall on Friday afternoon. Speak­
ers included Thomas A. Mc- 
Conomy, chair of the Carnegie 
Mellon Board of Trustees; Uni­
versity President Robert Mehrab- 
ian; John Patrick Crecine, presi­
dent of the Georgia Institute of 
Technology; James Morris, head 
of the Department of Computer 
Science; Hyun Shin,
CMU andformerstudentofCyert; 
and William Y. Arms, vice presi­
dent for Computing Services. A 
conference on contemporary busi­
ness issues, also in Cyert’s honor, 
took place at GSIA on Friday and 
Saturday.
CyertwaspresidentofCamegie 
Mellon University and Dean of 
GSIAbetweenl972 andl990and 
now is a lifetime trustee of CMU. 
He led Carnegie Mellon into the 
computer age. When, in the early 
1980s, “computer” meant rare 
mainframes, a request for a net­
work in the Computer Science 
Department inspired his vision 
of a network that would provide 
computer access for everyone ev­
erywhere on campus providing e- 
mail and access to research and 
library resources.
Former president Richard Cyert (center) talks with President Robert Mehrablan at the Cyert Hall 
dedication ceremony on Friday. Thomas McConomy, chairman of the Board of Trustees, looks on.
The idea was considered so 
revolutionary at the time that 
IBM, asked to provide the hard­
ware, did a half-year $350,000 
feasibility study before entering 
into the contract. Cyert called 
the close cooperation with IBM 
during the creation of the net­
work “amazing.” A Stanford pro­
fessor emeritus later praised 
Cyert!s“tremendous accomplish­
ment, especially having that vi­
sion and selling it to IBM.” He 
said Cyert had made CMU “num-
ber one in effort” regarding com­
puting in education.
Andrew, CMUs computer net­
work, had the world’s fastest 
Ethernet backbone in 1986 and 
serves close to 10,000 computers 
of all kinds today. “Every build­
ing on campus is connected by 
fiber-optic cables that will be 
there for a long time to come,” 
Cyert said. “It is the largest net­
work of [its kind in] the world.”
Arms cited Computing Services’ 
undergraduate survey [“Comput-
ing Services releases survey re­
sults,” 9/7] showing that 75 per­
cent of students use computers 
more than one hour a day and 89 
percent use email at least daily. 
He also indicated that last week, 
8,973 different people used the 
network. This means practically 
everybody on campus. “We’d like 
to tell you [that] the real impact 
of computing on education will 
not be seen'until the next decade, 
when we build on what we have 
Please see CYERT, page 3
The CMU volleyball team played Geneva College during the Eighth 
Annual Volleyball Invitational. Please see our story on page 9.
Inside• Just what goes on inside• Forum columnist joins library
Warner Hall?sit-in demonstration.
Classifieds........................11See page LI.See page 4.
Comics..............................L4
Diversions........................L9• H&SS offers new Russian• Read a strong reaction to last
Features ...........................LIexchange program.week’s fraternity column.
Forum.................................4See page L3.See page 4.
Sports..................................7
Calendar.......................L12• Hewlett exhibit displays• Tartans bear down duringfoot-
Vox Populi......................L12useful art.ball season.
See page L9.See page 7.
Traces of asbestos in Scaife Hall 
pose no threat to students, workers
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Asbestos particles found in an 
air mixing box in the basement of 
Scaife Hallposeno health hazard 
to building occupants or mainte­
nance staff, says Pe­
ter Collopy, director of 
Environmental and 
Health Services 
(E&HS).
Even so, Jack Yoedt, 
president of Service 
Employess Interna­
tional Union (SEIU)_________
Local 29, has in- ¦¦¦*1 
structed his members 
not to work in Scaife Hall until 
“all asbestos is removed.” SEIU 
Local 29 represents university 
maintenance personnel, and is
currently in contract negotiations 
with the University.
Collopy says that the particles 
were found in a mixing box in 
room B16 in the basement of 
Scaife Hall. The boxes combine 
hot and cold air in the ventilation
‘We think that asbestos entered 
the air duct during construction 
or renovations in the building,” 
says Collopy.
“[The air duct] is not spewing 
asbestos fiberB out into the build­
ing, but there is the potential for 
exposure there,” 
Coll-opy says. The 
best solution, 
Collopy says, is to 
reroute the air duct 
for room B16 to 
solve the problem 
once and for all. 
Yoedt says that
''''TTTT555^¦ the union is more
concerned with the
system before it reaches the air broaderissue of keeping employ- 
vents. Room B16 is used by me- ees safe while they are perform- 
chanical engineering students as ing maintenance in Scaife Hall, 
a multi-purpose room. Please see ASBESTOS, page 3
“We think that asbestos en­
tered the air duct during 
constuction or renovations..." 
— Peter Collopy, E&HS director
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 1993
Exxon seeks $1 billion reimbursement for spill
NEW YORK, September 1 (DJ) •— Lloyd’s argues that the policies it sold 
ExxonCorp.anditsinsurersaresquar- to Exxon don’t cover spills already 
ing off over the payment of $1 billion covered by the association, 
the oil company is seeking as partial 
reimbursement for money it paid to 
clean up the Exxon Valdez oil spill,
The Wall Street Journal reported.
Following four years of discussions 
with the insurers, Exxon has filed a 
lawsuit in state court in Houston, ar­
guing that Lloyd’s of London and other 
insurers are responsible under poli­
cies that covered damages caused by 
oil spilled by the grounded super­
tanker.
Meantime, Lloyd’s and the other in­
surers filed their own suit against 
Exxon yesterday in federal court in 
New York. The insurers argue that 
thepoliciesthey
"Even a billion-dollar 
claim would be pocket 
change to Exxon/'
sold to Exxon 
don’t cover dam­
age caused by 
the spill.
Neither 
Exxon nor the 
insurers would 
say how much 
money is at is­
sue. But people 
familiar with the dispute say Exxon is 
seeking $1 billion while the insurers 
argue they owe nothing.
Exxon said the company and its af­
filiates estimate the total cost of the 
cleanup and associated expenses to be
It also says it isn’t obligated to pay 
because the Valdez incident arose from 
“reckless disregard” on the part of 
Exxon rather than the spill being a 
“fortuitous” event.
“The insurance clearly covers the 
amounts claimed,” Exxon said. “While 
the amount of the claim is substan­
tial, it does not approach all of the 
costs Exxon has incurred due to the 
accident.”
A spokesman said he couldn’t com­
ment on how much money Exxon has 
in its reserve to cover such costs.
People familiar with the matter say 
that the apparent issue in the dispute 
is that Exxon is 
seeking reim­
bursement for 
damage caused 
by the oil of the 
Valdez.
The money paid— Bryan Jacoboski ^indemnity__________________________________ association arose
from a policy that 
covers damage 
caused by the ship itself, not the cargo.
Oil industry analysts said that even 
if Exxon loses the lawsuit or settles 
out of court, the amount involved isn’t 
likely to have a material impact on 
the nation’s largest oil company or its 
about $3.5 billion following the March investors.
1989 spill when the crippled Exxon “Even a billion-dollar settlement 
Valdez dumped 11 million gallons of would be pocket change to Exxon,’
crude oil into Alaska’s Prince William 
Sound.
The disputed insurance policies were 
underwritten by a pool of more than 
100 insurers, led by underwriters at 
Lloyd’s.
Among the U.S. insurers that par­
ticipated in the pool are insurance 
units of American International Group 
Inc., Cigna Corp., and Continental 
Corp.
saidBiy an Jacoboski, aPaine-Webber 
analyst.
He added that Exxon already has 
paid a substantial amount in the wake 
of the Valdez wreck.
Analysts said Exxon has large 
amounts of cash in reserve to settle 
such claims as the Lloyd’s litigation, 
but they aren’t sure of the amount 
currently on hand.
‘Exxon has written checks as large
Exxon already has recovered $400 as $2.1 billion to settle a government 
million from an offshore insurance as- claim,” said Jacoboski, adding, “they 
sociation financed by shipowners, keep that kind of money on hand.”
Clinton announces plan to 
improve gov’t efficiency
WASHINGTON, September 8 (D J) — President Clinton unveiled his plan 
to streamline the federal government with proposals ranging from a top-to- 
bottom overhaul of the civil-service system to elimination of the subsidy for 
mohair.
The Wall Street Journal reported that the 168-page report contains 800 
recommendations, the result of over six months of work by hundreds of 
government employees and outside consultants. It was presented to the 
President by its chief author, Vice President A1 Gore, at a White House 
ceremony. To dramatize their proposals, the White House stationed forklifts 
nearby holding reams of paper that both men characterized as unnecessary 
federal regulations.
If fully implemented, the suggestions would save the government an 
estimated $108 billion over five years and reduce the civilian federal work 
force by 252 thousand, or by about 12 percent.The measures would make it 
easier to fire incompetent workers, privatize many federal functions and 
decentralize many procurement and personnel decisions.
But the main point of the exercise, unlike most previous “reform” efforts, 
isn’t simply to hack away at wasteful government. It is designed, instead, to 
instill confidence in government so that Clinton’s ambitious activism has a 
better chance of succeeding. “As important as anything else,” the president 
said, is to “rebuild the confidence of the American people in this great public 
enterprise.”
Clinton characterized government as “old-fashioned, outdated.... It’s gov­
ernment using a quill pen in the age of WordPerfect.” But he pledged to change 
that. “It’s going to work,” he said. “We’re going to do it.”
One reason it might work is the enthusiasm he and Gore are bringing to the 
effort. Both men will stump the country this week highlighting the plan. In 
addition, Clinton himself could put as many as 45% of the recommendations 
into effect through executive orders, and the White House is committed to 
pressing at least three separate pieces of legislation to enact provisions he 
can’t order unilaterally.
Clinton faces a political imperative to get at least some of the plan through 
Congress. His advisors have been arguing that he should discipline govern­
ment in ways that aren’t usually associated with Democrats in order to prove 
that he is a “different kind of Democrat.”
What’s more, the exercise gives Clinton a chance to work with Republicans 
after months of partisan bickering over the budget. Clinton’s other major 
initiatives—health-care overhaul and the free-trade agreement with Canada 
and Mexico — also will require extensive cooperation with the GOP.
Initial support from both Republicans and Democrats in Congress improves 
the chances for approval of substantial parts of the plan. But obstacles 
remain. Liberals will tend to want to slash government less and conservatives 
more.
Critics doubt that the report can save as much money as it professes in 
several instances. The report claims $811 million can be raised from new fees 
on loans to veterans,"for instance, but “they’ll be lucky to make half of that,” 
said Robert M. O’Toole, a former Veterans Administration official.
Senate pressures Clinton on Somalia policy
WASHINGTON, September 10 (DJ) 
—The Senate fired a warning shot across 
the bow of the Clinton administration’s 
Somalia policy but stopped short of set­
ting a deadline for a U.S. withdrawal, 
The Wall Street Journal reported.
The sudden two-day Senate rebellion 
against the “stay the course” policy of 
helping to stabilize the African country 
concluded late last night with approval 
of a nonbinding resolution calling on the 
administration to provide by October 15 
a report on its goals and objectives in 
Somalia. Then, it asks the President to 
seek congressional approval by Novem­
ber 15 for any continued U.S. presence 
there.
The resolution also asks the adminis­
tration to report on the planned dura­
tion and size ofthe U.S. military mission 
in Somalia. And, underscoring wide­
spread congressional dissatisfaction with 
the way the United Nations has handled 
events in Somalia, it asks that the Presi­
dent explain the command arrangements 
governing U.S. forces there.
“We’re going to force a showdown on 
this, one way or another,” said Sen. 
Robert Byrd, the leader of rebellion. He 
said he thinks U.S. troops will have to 
pull out if Congress doesn’t authorize 
continued operations.
The West Virginia Democrat originally 
had sought to effectively require the 
U.S. to withdraw by the end of next 
month unless Congress specifically au­
thorized continuing the mission, but 
many in the Senate were uncomfortable 
with setting such a deadline so quickly. 
Yet even opponents of the original Byrd 
amendment agreed that the U.S. mis­
sion has been too open-ended and hazily 
defined.
News reports from Mogadishu said 
U.S. helicopter gunships killed dozens 
of residents, including many women and 
children, described by a U.S. military 
spokesman as combatants. “We went to 
Somalia to keep people from starving to 
death,” said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.). 
“Now we are killing women and children 
as combatants. It’s got to stop.”
In many ways, the debate over Soma­
lia was a prelude for engaging the ad­
ministration over its plans to send more 
than 20 thousand peacekeepers to Bosnia 
if a peace agreement is reached there. A 
mission to the Balkans would be far 
more difficult than Somalia has been, 
but the administration hasn’t clearly 
explained its rationale for either com­
mitment. Defense Secretary Les Aspin 
recently laid out the U.S. goals in Soma­
lia but didn’t explain why those goals 
are important.NAFTA agreement expected to be signed Tuesday
WASHINGTON, September 10 (DJ) 
— President Clinton is expected to sign 
side agreements covering the North 
American Free Trade Agreement 
(NAFTA) on Tuesday, officially kicking 
off the administration’s final efforts to 
secure congressional passage of the 
three-nation pact.
The White House signing ceremony 
will also coincide with testimony by U.S. 
Trade Representative Mickey Kantor, 
Commerce Secretary Ronald Brown, and 
Labor Secretaiy Robert Reich before the 
House Ways & Means Committee, ad­
ministration officials note.
On Wednesday, Kantor, Treasury Sec­
retary Lloyd Bentsen, and Secretary of 
State Warren Christopher are expected 
to appear before the Senate Finance 
Committee to discuss NAFTA and the 
side agreements.
The Capitol Hill testimony by the se­
nior administration officials next week 
marks the start of the so-called mock 
mark-up process regarding implement­
ing legislation for the NAFTA agree­
ment.
House Ways & Means and Senate Fi­
nance are the key committees in Con­
gress regarding NAFTA.
Administration sources anticipate that 
it will be at least late October before the 
process of cobbling together implement- 
ing legislation is completed. At thattime, 
a 90-day legislative clock will start tick­
ing in which Congress must vote on the 
accord.
It is anticipated at this time, adminis­
tration officials say, that the full 90- 
legislative-day calendar won’t be re­
quired and NAFTA will gain passage by 
a January 1 target.
House Trade Subcommittee Chairman 
Sam Gibbons, a Florida Democrat, says 
he. is hoping the House will be in a 
position to vote on NAFTA by late Octo­
ber. Other NAFTA supporters in Con­
gress suggest it will be December before 
Congress fully votes on NAFTA.
If it looks like the J anuary target can’t 
be reached, the administration will be 
forced to go back to Mexico and Canada 
to secure a new target date. But admin­
istration officials are still maintaining 
that they don’t believe the target is in 
danger at this point.
The side agreements to be signed by 
Clinton cover tighter enforcement mea­
sures regarding environmental and la­
bor laws along with measures to coun­
teract import surges.
Congressional leaders have said the 
side agreements would be critical for 
passage ofthe main NAFTA agreement. 
And administration officials maintain 
that the accords reached last month 
with Mexico and Canada will be ad­
equate to gain passage.Space shuttle begins 10-day satellite mission
CAPE CANAVERAL, September 12 
(AP)—The “Discovery” commander said 
that it’s nice to finally be in space after 
a series of frustrating delays.
The space shuttle roared into orbit 
from its seaside pad in Florida for a ten- 
day mission to deliver a pair of satellites 
and practice spacewalking.
The mission had been delayed five 
times since mid-July for everything from 
engine trouble and payload concerns to 
a meteor shower.
The crew’s first task is to release the 
$365 million Advanced Communications 
Technology Satellite. The satellite is 
designed to transmit data 20 times faster 
than current craft.
The satellite will be deployed eight 
hours into the mission.
The shuttle is schedule to land on 
September 22 at Kennedy Space Center 
in the first Florida touchdown in dark­
ness.Palestinians attack on eve of peace accord
GAZA CITY, OCCUPIED GAZA 
STRIP, September 12 (AP)—Their lead­
ers are making peace with Israel but 
Palestinian militants are makingit clear 
they won’t follow suit.
Militants launched a series of attacks 
today, ambushing an army jeep and at­
tacking two passenger buses. Four Is­
raelis and three Palestinians are dead.
The violence comes on the eve of the 
signing of a historic Israeli-Palestinian 
peace accord.
Israel’s police minister says the attack 
emphasize the “hatred and brutality” of 
opponents of peace.
In an attack near Gaza City, three 
Israeli soldiers were killed when gun­
men opened fire on their jeep.
A caller to news organizations in Gaza 
City said the killings are, in his words, 
“a gift to Yasser Arafat, the peace settle­
ment, and all the traitors.”
Arafat is chairman of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization (PLO). He ne­
gotiated the agreement with Israel.
Arafat’s mother-in-law, Raymonda 
Tawil, said a burglary at her suburban 
Paris apartment was an attempt to get 
something on Arafat.
She said the thieves apparently were 
looking for something like files or docu­
ments. She’s calling it an “intimidation 
or even a threat” to her son-in-law.PLO, Israel sign peace accord in Washington
WASHINGTON, September 10 (AP) 
— President Clinton expressed his 
“strong support” for a historic peace 
agreement between Israel and the Pal­
estinians and prepared to resume U.S. 
contacts with the Palestine Liberation 
Organization.
He intends to host an elaborate White 
House signing ceremony for the accord
on Monday.
Clinton planned to announce the re 
sumption of the U.S. dialogue with the 
PLO after meeting with congressional 
leaders today.
Clinton said he would brief the la», 
makers about “our strong support” fo, 
the agreement, what America’s respon 
sibilities will be, and what our friend; 
and allies around the world are inter, 
ested in doing about it, and where we go 
from here.”
Several leading members of Congress, 
traditionally a bastion of anti-PLO sen 
timent, have told the administration 
they will not object to renewed ties win 
the organization now that Israel has 
recognized the group.
“President Clinton is doing the right 
thing,” said Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Va,) 
who chairs the panel that doles out for- 
eign aid.
Clinton, in advance of the signing o| 
historic Palestinian-Israeli agreements 
Monday, repealed aU.S. ban on contacts 
with the PLO.
Noting the signing of mutual recogni­
tion accords by representatives of the 
PLO and Israel yesterday, Clinton sai<
“I have decided to resume the dialogui 
and contacts between the U.S. and the 
PLO.”
Contacts between the U.S. and the 
PLO had been cut off after a terrorist 
attack by a faction of the PLO several 
years ago, Clinton said.
The PLO’s subsequent renunciation 
of terrorism and recognition of Israel’s 
right to exist cleared the way for re­
sumption of contacts, Clinton said.
Clinton called the mutual recognition 
an “historic and honorable compromise 
between two peoples” that have been 
locked in a bloody struggle for nearly 
century.
“Today marks the dawning of a new 
era,” Clinton said.
The reopening of contacts with the 
PLO will permit the U.S. to participate 
more directly in talks aimed at estab- T 
lishing a Palestinian government in the 
Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jeri­
cho that eventually will be expanded to 
include most of the West Bank.
Asked what the U.S. will do to ensure 
the military security of the two nations' ? 
after settlement of the new peace trea­
ties, Clinton didn’t specifically rule out 
U.S. military involvement in a peace 
keeping capacity.
“It would be inappropriate for me to 
speculate about it now,” Clinton said at« 
a White House press conference.National service bill passes by Congress 57-40 j
WASHINGTON, September 8 (D J) - 
The Senate gave final approval to a $1.5 
. billion compromise version of Presideni 
Clinton’s plan for students to earn col­
lege money in exchange for national®
The 57-40 vote, mostly along party 
lines, gave Clinton the first all-new pro­
gram of his administration.
The proposal followed up on his cam­
paign promise to create a domestic ver- - 
sion of the Peace Corps, in which young 
people could serve their communities 
while earning money to help pay for 
college.
GOP opponents, though outnumbered, 
renewed many of the same complaints 
they had more than a month ago when 
they stalled the measure just before 
Congress went on vacation.
Sen. Bob Dole (R-Kan.), the Senate 
Republican leader, accused the White 
House of sending conflicting signals bj 
proposing government reorganization 
and a new program at the same time.Inmate deaths from AIDS up
WASHINGTON, September 12 (AP) 
— A government study released today 
says that New York and New Jersey 
lead the nation in inmate deaths from 
AIDS in 1991.
The study also says prisoners in the 
Northeast had the highestrates ofAlDS- 
virus infection.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc., and 
The Associated Press 
AP news briefs courtesy 
WRCT 88.3 FM 
Layout by 
Frank Michels

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 19933
New hours restrict facilities, prompt weekly demonstration
HOURS, from page 1
ghase around 300 new books, cover annual fees for 
mounting Psychological Abstracts on LIS, or pay 
for 4,285 hours of student work study assistance to 
¦ Teshelve books more quickly,” Lowry said.
- 1 Lowry later said that his decision is a way to
¦ 'satisfy the needs of students without incurring the 
full expense of keeping the library open. According 
.'to Lowry, the first floor and basement computer 
•'¿luster will remain open until 3am, but all upper 
t -'flbors will be restricted from students after mid-
“night.
I-’“ Still unsatisfied, Haverkamp, with the support 
"df other student leaders, announced Saturday that 
similar sit-ins will occur every Thursday until 3am
• until full operation ofthe library is restored. Lowry 
¡•¡-‘said that the library usage will continue to be
IJe
monitored as the semester progresses, and deci­
sion on future semesters will be based upon the 
data collected in those studies.
The change in library hours was decided on by 
the Faculty Senate Library Advisory Committee 
(FSLAC), a sub-committee of Faculty Senate which 
addresses the university librarian on policy issues, 
according to a member of the FSLAC.
Last spring, FSLAC convened to serve as a task 
force on undergraduate education, and the com­
mittee decided that there was a dramatic dropoff in 
udergraduate studies at the library after mid­
night, and that the money originally used to main­
tain late night hours could be better spent else­
where.
[Samuel Minterand the WRCTNews Staffhelped 
contribute to this article.]SDC requests policy changes
L^lVHCROWAVE, from page 1.
^ / gets it through.
• “I commend the authors for really taking the 
^ issue to heart,” said Ginther, “They did a tremen- 
°J,d6us amount of work to get this far.”
J1 'The proposal moves on to Michael Murphy, dean 
6f Student Affairs, and the three assistants of 
housing: Dave Potter, assistant director of Hous­
ing for Administration, Ginther and Foster.
-—If approved, SDC and the Housing Office will 
^vork together to find an efficient method of install- 
^mg the microwaves.Cyert Hall dedicated to former president
UCC now has ‘grandest name’
From “A Request for Policy Change”
It can be seen by examining the history of this 
Issue, the potential benefits of change csl the 
evidence ofthe current situation that the legaliza­
tion of microwaves In Carnegie Mellon residence 
halls waMFl be a positive move. ... Thus, with no 
compelling reason to forbid microwaves in the 
residence halls, and strong evidence Indicating 
added benefits to the quality of life on campus, we 
request that the current policy be changed to allow 
microwaves in the student rooms of Camgle Mellon 
residence halls.
CYERT, from page 1
tfow,” he said. “For his vision and 
leadership, Dick Cyert merits the 
grandest building on campus to 
%e named for him. Now, Cyert 
Hall is not the grandest building 
on campus, but it is the one with 
the grandest name.”
'-‘The ideas of Andrew are cur- 
“fSntly being developed for com­
mercial use under the name
r STUDENT 
SENATE
Meeting of 7 September 1993
Roll was taken at 8:05 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
8:07 pm.
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Cameron (CIT), Carter 
JCIT), Cohen (SCS), DeRoss 
"(MCS), Fadl (MCS), Frey (CFA), 
"(Sannon (MCS), Goldman 
(H&SS), Haverkamp (CIT), 
‘Holzman (CIT), Kwon (CIT), 
Langer (H&SS), McCullagh 
'CMisc), Morrow (CIT), Ortega 
fCIT), Robe (GSIA), Sawyer- 
Villers (CIT), Singh (CFA), 
¡Szudarek (MCS), Trexel (IM),
_Wallhausen (H&SS).6u
. Senators Absent: Alzona 
'(SCS), Bhattacharya (GSIA), 
Hamlin (H&SS), Jaiswal (GSIA), 
Motley (CIT), Powell (IM), Tsung 
*ik FA).
Approval of the Minutes:
Accepted as written.
Audience Participation:
'Aliya Khan distributed and re­
viewed the schedule of events for 
the 1993 International Festival 
on Africa, scheduled for October 
20 - 23.
,u Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Matt Adler): Denny Dent 
was a success. Steve Kravitz, co­
median, is coming to us Sep- 
tember 15. Movies this week: El 
tilariachi, Thursday 6, 8:30, 11 
Via-,Dragon:Bruce Lee, Friday 6, 
JL10 pm, 12 midnight; Dragstrip 
Girl, Sunday. 6, 8, 10 pm, 12 
midnight. All movies are in 
DH2210. AB will be sponsoring 
many of the activities during the 
1993 International Festival on 
Africa, October 20-23. Upcom­
ing AB Coffeehouse Lecture: Den­
“DFS” for “Distributed File Sys­
tem” in cooperation with IBM, 
Hewlett-Packard, and Siemens- 
Nixdorf. It has already been rec­
ognized asa standard by the Open 
Software Foundation.
Software company manager 
Alfred Spectoa said they were 
going to make communication like 
on Andrew “a reality around the 
world.”
nis Berry, speaking on censor­
ship.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): Over the 
summer, GSO did many things, 
includingnumerous social events; 
Graduation Orientation ’93; a 
benefit for stroke victim Joe Co­
lon; worked with University 
Teaching Center to establish new 
programs to make grad students 
more effective TAs; worked with 
the bookstore, library, Career 
Center, Financial Aid, and Asso­
ciate Provost for Academic 
Projects to improve services for 
grad students; negotiated a deal 
where FOCUS will have two 
pages devoted entirely to grad 
issues and will be delivered to all 
grad students; set up the Gradu­
ate Student Seminar Series to 
set up programs for women/mi­
norities (contact Kathy Johnson 
at kj26 to register).
GSO picnic last Friday was a 
huge success despite the rain. 
The Provost’s Office agreed to 
fund new Graduate Student Re­
search Awards (up to $375) for 
students to travel to present their 
research at conferences. As of 
now, there is no home for the 
Tilted Square when Skibo is tom 
down.
GSO meetings this year are the 
first Wednesday of each month 
(except in January when it’s the 
second Wednesday) at 5:30 pm in 
Skibo 12. GSO has several goals 
this year including formalizing 
GSO’s role in Student Govern­
ment, establishing Squirrel Hill 
shuttle routes, improving safety 
on campus, subsidized child care 
for children of grad students, and 
establishing a Dean of Graduate 
Studies.
Faculty Senate (Dean 
Michael Murphy): The new Chair 
of Faculty Senate is Herb Toor. 
The first regular meeting of Fac­
ulty Senate will be Thursday, 
September 9 at 3:30 pm in the 
Simon Auditorium in GSIA
Greek Council (Demian
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
ka/er/ i/rThlrsR vmr/R TircuT Ra 
R.r VcR.r/hsV,
Asbestos risk in Scaife raises concerns from workers' union
Union workers told not to work in building
ASBESTOS, from page 1 legitimate concern, and anyone trying to dismiss
He disputes charges that SEIU has targeted it would be incorrect.”
Scaife as part of a negotiating tactic. “Someone 
in our group saw asbestos in the ventilation 
box,” he says. “We haven’t mentioned anything 
about this in negotiations at all.”
Collopy says that asbestos is heavily em­
ployed as a fire-proofing and insulation mate­
rial in Scaife Hall, as was typical in buildings of 
the 1960s.
The greatest risk to maintenance personnel 
comes when they disturb the asbestos coating 
with power tools, enter mechanical service ar­
eas, or when they go above the dropped ceiling 
tiles in Scaife.
Collopy says that to be safe, E&HS has as­
sumed that every area of the building contains 
asbestos and employees are to take safety pré-
The asbestos is found sprayed on the beams of cautions when they work above the dropped 
the building, troweled on the walls and ceiling, ceilings.
“It is a legitimate concern, 
and anyone trying to dis­
miss it would be Incorrect. ” 
— Pete Collopy, 
E&HS director
and in some types of floor tile.
As long as the material is not disturbed or 
remains encapsulated by paint or carpeting, 
the asbestos fibers do not become airborne.
Asbestos exposure _______________________
can cause respir­
atory problems like 
asbestosis.
Collopy added that 
the University has 
been sampling the air 
in the building peri- -
odically since Decem­
ber of 1992. At no
time has the number ^I—— 
of fibers in the air
reached or exceed the levels set by the EPA as 
safe.
“We’ve removed a lot,” says Collopy. “We’ve 
encapsulated a lot. We’ve replaced 10-20 per­
cent of the floor tile. Any places that students 
or faculty go, we’ve tried to minimize the risk.” 
Collopy said that an example of this was in 
the observatory on the fifth floor, where all 
asbestos has been removed, and in the As­
tronomy Club’s offices, where all ofthe material 
has been encapsulated.
“As long as the asbestos is encapsulated, 
there’s not a problem,” says Yoedt.
“It’s only when it’s flaking and can get into an 
air duct that we get concerned.”
Collopy says approximately 55outof 58 build­
ings on campus contain asbestos.
“You can’t walk into a building in Oakland 
without encountering asbestos.”
It would be wrong to underestimate the im­
portance of the issue, though, he says. “It is a
Following the discovery'of the asbestos fibers 
in the ventilation box, a memo was released by 
Collopy outlining protocols to be used whenever 
procedures are performed that might expose
__________________________ workers to asbes-'
tos. In addition, 
maintenance per­
sonnel are to con­
tact E&HS before 
any such work is 
done.
“If there wasn’ta- 
particular problem 
in Scaife then why 
—^— would they [E&HS] 
send a memo out,” 
asks Yoedt. “They had also recognized that there 
was a problem. They put a memo up on the 
bulletin board in the shop, and I wrote a memo to... 
Barbara Smith [University assistant vice-presi­
dent for human resources] the following day.” 
Yoedt’s memo to Smith said that he had in­
structed all union members not to accept jobs in 
Scaife until all asbestos was removed.
Yoedt says that the union’s health and safety 
personnel are reviewing the E&HS protocols 
and the University’s air sampling data from 
Scaife Hall.
If everything is found to be satisfactory, the 
ban will be lifted.
“The school gave us some information and 
some readings that they had taken in the build­
ing,” says Yoedt.
“They’re waiting to hear from us.” He added" 
that SEIU may ask the University for a list of all 
of the locations where asbestos is found in the 
building.
Student Senate Minutes
Johnston): The year has started 
out well for Greek Council. We 
have established a constructive 
relationship with Residence Life. 
We successfully organized many 
orientation events including a 
freshman move-in, Discussion 
Panel for parents, and an 
experiencial program for first 
year students. The biggest suc­
cess was the largest banana split 
in CMU history — it was more 
than 300 feet long and was eaten 
by more than 1000 people. Thank 
you Student Senate for your sup­
port. I hope this will become an 
annual event.
Student Affairs (Pat Harned): 
Some changes in Student Affairs: 
Tim Foster is now the Assistant 
Director of Housing for Resident 
Life, Amy Ginther is the Assis­
tant Director of Housing for Op­
erations, and Dave Potter is Asst 
Director of Housing for Adminis­
tration. The new assistants to 
the Dean of Student Affairs are 
Allison Riley and Kevin Hughes. 
Residence Life is now conducting 
several new programs: Last Lec­
tures, Pittsburgh Horizons, and 
Soup and Substance. Parents 
Weekendis October 22—23. We’re 
hoping that Senate might be in­
terested in doing a reception for 
that weekend.
SDC : No report.
President (Dave Wolpert): I 
will be starting office hours next 
week, Wednesdays from 4:30- 6 
pm, in a location yet to be decided 
(possibly Gray Matter in Skibo).
SafeWalk is progressing, but 
we need more volunteer escorts
— you must be at least a sopho­
more, and preferably not on aca­
demic probation. If you’re inter­
ested, call me at422-1439 or email 
me at dw38. There will be an 
Information Session Thursday at
5 pm in Skibo 13 — applications 
and consent forms will be avail­
able there. The Student Safety 
Council, a student advisory com­
mittee to Campus Police which
was established by Senate 
through a resolution last semes­
ter, must be further addressed by 
Senate in order to make it hap­
pen. Senate must address the 
Library issue.
Treasurer: (Dave Martin): I 
met with groups who are more 
than $1000 over budget and froze 
their budgets. These groups are 
CMU Rugby, CMU Hockey, Pio­
neers, Pugwash, and Scotch ‘n’ 
Soda. There will be. possible ac­
tions against groups who repeat­
edly go over budget in the future. 
Senate must act strongly against 
these fiscally irresponsible orga­
nizations.
Chair (Burt Holzman):
There were three resignations 
effective today: Stephanie Powell 
(IM), Ann Kopchik (H&SS), and 
Mike Szudarek (MCS) who is no 
longer a CMU student.
Nominations for several uni­
versity committes are due Sep­
tember 25: Academic Review 
Board (6—2 members), Campus 
Services Advisory Committee (2- 
4 members), Design Review Com­
mittee (1-2 members), Health 
Services and Insurance Advisory 
Committee (4-6 members), Ryan 
Award Committee (2 members), 
Sexual Harrassment Committee 
(2 members), Trustee Committee 
(4-8 members), Undergrad Aca­
demic Advising Award Commit­
tee (2 members), University Com­
mittee on Discipline (6-12 mem­
bers), University Parking Com­
mittee (2-4 members), Univer­
sity Student Affairs Council (2-4 
members), Vice President’s Stu­
dent Advisory Committee (6—12 
members), Undergrad Academice 
Committee, and the Security 
Council.
Keycards will be available for 
Seantors at the next meeting. 
There are vacancies in IM, GSIA,
2 Heinz, 2 MCS, CFA, HSS.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Yamam 
Fadl): Yamam Fadl resigned as
chair of the Academic Affairs com­
mittee and from Senate, citing 
academic and personal reasons.
Campus Affairs (Tony 
DeRoss): A regular meeting time 
will be established when the com­
mittees are formed. The current 
issue we will be working on is the 
library hours issue.
Funding and Recognition
(Chris Morrow): We haven’t done 
much yet this year. In May we 
allocated $1,200 to the Greeks for 
their banana split. We also gave 
permission for Crew to sell 2 of 
their boats in order to buy 2 new
am - 2:30 pm. Some events in­
clude free clinics, demonstrations, 
and a women’s team match at 3 
pm.
Meeting adjourned at 9:04 pm.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
FRANK MICHELS
Public Relations (Jim Albert): 
The Senate Table at Activities 
Fair was a success — 25 people 
showed interest, and nine of them 
are here with us tonight.
Human Resources (Moneet 
Singh): Saturday Septemberl8 
will be the Skills for Leadership 
Workshop from 9 am — 4 pm in 
various places in Skibo. Sign up 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
New Business:
Motion to approve the nomina­
tion of Gregory Haverkamp as 
the Chair’s choice for Vice Chair 
of Senate was accepted by accla­
mation. Haverkamp is now the 
Vice Chair of Student Senate.
Points of Discussion:
Issues discussed were the prob­
lem with shortened library hours 
and the tabled issue of Activities 
Fee increase.
Announcements:
• Orientation ’94 applications 
for new and returning counselors 
are available in the Housing Of­
fice. Contact Tony DeRoss for 
more information.
• An Open House AB meeting 
will be tomorrow at 5 pm in the 
Faculty Lounge.
• This Thursday will be the 
opening of the tennis courts 11:30
Correction...
In last week’s article, “New 
Hunt Library hours anger 
students, spark petition 
drive,” the faculty approval- 
of the change in Hunt 
Library’s hours was incor­
rectly attributed. The Fac­
ulty Senate Library Advisory 
Committee discussed and 
approved the change.
The Tartan corrects all 
known errors of fact. If you 
know of such an error, con­
tact Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
Brendan McFeely at x2111, 
or write him in care of The 
Tartan, Skibo 50.
Meet the small, 
un-silenttype.
Presenting die ELERT from Quorum. . 
The portable motion detector that blasts 
103dB (minimum) whenever moved.
It operates simply 
\ on batteries,
I/And you can 
/attach it to every ; 
| thing from your ¦ ’*' 
1 skis to your per- 
f sonal computer. Only 
Quorum products 
give you that kind of
technology Quorum
and security. SecuringLife^
f. Contact\wr Quorum Indtpeiideiil Distributor
Dennis & Patricia Snyder * 
(412) 461-7458

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Microwave proposal 
must replace old policy
The Student Dormitory Coun­
cil, SDC, is taking an important 
and necessary stand against ex­
isting Housing policy in refuting 
the long-standing rules regard­
ing microwaves in dorms. 
Housing’s current policy, which 
bans microwaves from any cam­
pus areas not equipped with 
kitchens, is a ludicrous rule with 
little foundation and poor ratio­
nale. Kudos to SDC for disputing 
this outdated, flawed policy and 
building a thorough rebuttal of 
their own which supports the 
rights of students on this cam­
pus.
Housing’s arguments for ban­
ning microwaves are inadequate. 
They say that microwaves are a 
fire hazard, produce an over­
whelming amount of food waste, 
have too high a voltage require­
ment for residence hall wiring, 
and that their legalization would 
result in Dining Services losing 
money. But SDC was quick to 
refute these points and more ac­
curately assess the effects of mi­
crowave use.
First of all, microwaves are only 
a fire hazard when metal is placed 
in them and irradiated for a long 
time.
They can be considered safer 
than other appliances, such a 
coffee maker or a clothes iron 
because they have a timer and 
automatically shut off when not 
in use.
Secondly, the legalization of mi­
crowaves would not dramatically 
affect the amount of generated
Forum: safe haven for 
varied opinions, beliefs
Newspapers in general are 
relatvely predictable — there’s 
the news section, the sports sec­
tion, and the comics, usually 
along with living and entertain­
ment sections. Often, there is 
very little opportunity to respond 
to what we see in print. At The 
Tartan, we find a lot of value in 
the exchange and in the frequent 
clash of ideas.
The Forum pages are our way 
of fostering free exchange of 
ideas, so we try to provide a spec­
trum of opinions to allow you, 
our readers, to be the judges.
To that end, you’ll find the fol­
lowing types of pieces in this sec­
tion:
• Editorials always appear in 
the leftmost columns of the first 
Forum page.
They are unsigned, and repre­
sent a consensus opinion of The 
Tartan’s Editorial Board.
While we believe our editorials 
offer sensible, accurate commen­
tary, please feel free to disagree 
with us — we don’t have a mo­
nopoly on the truth.
As a matter of fact, we would 
love to know what you think of 
what we think. An excellent 
means to do this is to write a 
letter to the editor.
• Letters to the Editor may be 
submitted by anybody, although 
when space gets tight we will 
favor letters from members of 
the University community. As 
readers, you should realize that 
opinions represented in a letter 
are those of the author and not of 
The Tartan. All letters are sub­
ject to editing for size — letters 
can’t be more than 350 words — 
and grammar. But we never edit
HooS»V>o\S Ì 
O-PcX 
"wi'icr©
food wastes. Food is already 
present in the dorms, and Hous­
ing can’t outlaw that.
Thirdly, SDC points out that 
microwaves use a lot less watt­
age than most products and are 
and are not used for extended 
periods of time, between 5 and 20 
minutes total a day. SDC also 
notes that hair dryers use 1500 
watts of electricity while a com­
pact microwave uses 920 watts at 
the most.
Lastly, there is no reason for 
Housing to be taking Dining 
Service’s profit margin into ac­
count when passing regulations 
that affect the quality of life of 
students in dorms.
Also, most students are not pre­
paring eight course meals in their 
microwaves. Perhaps popcorn 
and Lipton cup of soup are the 
most popular cuisines a micro­
wave might heat.
Also, microwaves can be life- 
savers when Dining Services are 
closed during exams or amidst 
bad weather.
The time is better than ever to 
legalize microwaves in dorms.
As SDC points out, allowing 
microwaves in dorm rooms will 
improve the quality of life on cam­
pus and make the students hap­
pier.
Housing must accept this pro­
posal and legalize the use of mi­
crowaves in residence halls.
SDC has done an admirable job 
of working towards the good of 
dorm residents by rebutting 
Housing’s established policy.
Letters to the Editor
Thanks for your 
suport at sit-in
Editor:
I would like to ex­
tend my thanks to 
all those who took 
part in the Hunt Li­
brary sit in last Fri­
day morning in pro-
Oü
Letter to 
the Editor
a letter for content.
Of course, we reserve the right 
to reject letters we feel are libel­
ous, obscene, or incoherent. But 
we’ll be glad to discuss any letter 
with the author and see if we can 
reach a compromise.
We are also willing to withhold 
the author’s name from a letter to 
the editor, but our editor-in-chief 
does need to know who wrote it. 
Please, don’t send us anonymous 
letters — it just frustrates us 
because we have no way to con­
tact you, and it annoys you be­
cause your letter doesn’t get pub­
lished.
• Person’s Opinion is just that 
•—the opinions of randomly polled 
persons, usually students at 
CMU, on a different question or 
concern each week.
The people in Person’s Opinion 
have no affiliation with The Tar­
tan, and as such, their opinions 
are in no way related to The Tar­
tan.
• Columns are regularly ap­
pearing opinion pieces presented 
by individuals who are usually 
members of the CMU commu­
nity.
Unsolicited columns generally 
cannot be used, though if you feel 
the desire to contribute regularly, 
contact the Forum editor. Opin­
ions in these columns are those of 
the columnist and not of The Tar­
tan.
Again, feel free to disagree with 
them and to let them know, 
through a Letter to the Editor.
That about sums up the Forum 
section. We hope it makes for 
some thought-provoking reading, 
and we’re always open to sugges­
tions for ways to improve it.
test of the curtailed library hours. I 
would like to express my appreciation to 
the Campus Police for their fair and 
calm handling of the situation. And I 
would like to thank University Librar­
ies Head of Administrative Services 
[Charles Lowry] for taking the time to 
listen to us.
I feel that it is important to note, 
however, the fact that library services 
available to the students have been se­
verely cut. In addition, I am very con­
cerned about the fact that there was 
little regard for student opinion in the 
decision to slash the hours. And it is for 
that reason this demonstration became 
very necessary.
This event showed a spirit of coopera­
tion from a diverse crowd of CMU stu­
dents that I have never seen in my years 
on this campus. My hope is that this is 
some sort of indication that the students 
of this campus are starting to take an 
interest in the functioning of their cam­
pus. All those who participated should 
be commended for standing up for their 
convictions.
Greg Haverkamp 
Senior, IM
NAFTA will drag 
the U.S. down
on
Idler lo the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
The article 
[“NAFTA is Bush’s 
Legacy,” 9/7] about 
NAFTA overlooks a 
few basic points 
about economics.
Ronak argues that since we’ve already 
had free trade with Canada, adding 
Mexico to the list is no big deal.
The problem is in the comparative 
standards of living among the U.S., 
Canada, and Mexico. Truly free trade 
tends to equalize the standards of living 
in the trading countries. Since Canada 
and the U.S. have comparative stan­
dards and costs of living, no equaliza­
tion need occur. Mexico, with its vastly 
lower standard of living, will drag both
the U.S. and Canada down. Warning flags 
are already flying about our generation 
not living as well as previous ones, the 
first real decline in the US standard of 
living.
Mass production is a cutthroat busi­
ness. If a company can save 50 cents per 
part on a million parts, they’ll drool! What, 
then, is to be said when comparing $8 per 
hour in the U.S. to $5 in Mexico (a high 
wage)? Not to mention the more lax envi­
ronmental standards in Mexico, lowering 
costs further. Mexican workers are roughly 
as productive as U.S. workers, but at a 
fraction of the labor cost. Viva Mexico!
NAFTA has been hailed as leading to 
the holy grail of low consumer prices. But 
low consumer prices are good only if con­
sumers have the disposable income to buy 
them. Traditionally, manufacturing jobs 
are the highest paying blue-collar jobs. 
Since blue-collar workers make up a sig­
nificant portion of consumers, is it not 
rational to ask what will happen when a 
large portion of the consumer base can no 
longer afford to buy goods?
It has been argued that many jobs will 
be created, but it has also been argued the 
other way. Any legislation that can be 
supported by both sides with equally con­
vincing arguments is bad legislation.
Stop NAFTA.
David Hunt
Mechanical Engineering,
Ph.D. student
Column was 
unfair to Greeks
Editor:
I would like to respond 
to the article [“Women 
Get Treated Like Ob­
jects,” 9/7] written by 
Kris Hinrichs.
Being a Greek for four 
years now, I have seen and heard numer­
ous complaints and stereotypes come and 
go. Your offense at someone’s party poster 
has been heard before. However, I must 
disagree with you when you say, “ ... it 
represents all the fraternities on campus.” 
That is about as accurate as saying all 
professional basketball players are drug 
addicts because one player gets arrested 
for it.
Most fraternities have a similar organi­
zational structure consisting of a presi­
dent, vice-president, and various other 
officers. The poster in question was most 
likely made by one officer who didn’t use 
superb judgment regarding its content. 
To blame the rest of the fraternities for the 
actions of one man proclaims your own 
ignorance of the workings of the Greek
Oi
Letter to 
the Editor
community or any other chair-run or­
ganization.
The blanket stereotyping of fraterni­
ties as the downfall of all freshman 
women is also quite an uneducated 
statement. The weekend coming up is 
the weekend of dry rush. Take a look 
at the condition of the residence halls 
on campus when the fraternity quad is 
closed. Students are going to find an 
outlet to release a week’s worth of 
frustration. The fraternities offer 4 
social scene where friends can meet, 
dance, and relax. Consider the alter-! 
native of all the students on this-cam­
pus looking to dormitories to release 
stress. Even worse would be the stu­
dents going off-campus to apartment^ 
and local night spots to be social ancj 
then walking home or taking a bus at} 
2 am.
The fraternity in question clearly 
does more than "... [drink] beer or 
[pursue] empty-headed babes.” In this 
society, any organization that doesn’t 
promote a positive public image is sure 
to be mauled by the press and otheij 
independent, special-interest groups.
I hope that you are not looking be­
yond some of the good work that these 
men do. Pi Kappa Alpha sponsors 
Miryams, a shelter for mentally and 
emotionally disturbed women in Pitts­
burgh. Delta Tau Delta holds a party 
to support a charity every year. Deltaj 
Upsilon takes their Greek Sing teant 
and puts on a free show for a locjal 
shelter or elderly home annually. Thife 
year the entire Greek Community got 
together to help the freshman move 
into their dorms.
I do agree with your concern about 
the negative portrayal of women as 
objects. I believe that this societal prob­
lem must be solved by each and every 
one of us. I hope that you write a letter, 
to Pepsi because, after all, they are the 
national company who puts Cindy 
Crawford in alluring outfits broadcast­
ing “You Gotta Have It.” Have what? 
Crawford or Pepsi? I also hope yOü 
write to Crawford and express yoür 
feelings about her profession of exploit 
tation.
Finally, we invite you to stop by ouiS 
house and meet the gentlemen who ara 
members. We invite you to spend a day 
with us to see how hard we work. Not 
only are we students but we are ath* 
letes and work-studies and, on top of ijj 
all, people trying to maintain our posi^J 
tion as a positive part of the campus.%
Andy Bordick 
President,
Pi Kappa Alpha
Students fight new hours
fP’ JSL
James S. Brown
Four nights ago, I and about 
35 others took part in a dem­
onstration held at the Hunt 
Library. The purpose of this 
demonstration was to protest 
the decision to curtail library 
services from midnight until 3 
am, when full services were
formerly available. We refused 
to leave the third floor until 3 
am, the hour that floor for­
merly closed.
The demonstrators were all 
students. The demonstration 
was peaceful, and energetic. 
What made it all the more 
exciting, was that these stu­
dents ranged in ideological 
viewpoints from ultra-conser­
vative to ultra-liberal, yet they 
all united behind a common 
cause for the student body.
At first I was a bit skeptical. 
After all, civil disobedience is 
usually a tactic used for lib­
eral purposes.
I did feel a little strange sit­
ting amongst a group com­
posed predominantly of liberal 
Student Government mem­
bers and Student Union writ­
ers.
As is often the case in pro­
tests of this type, I suspected 
that I might be unwittingly 
yielding my support to causes
I disagreed with, such as th^ 
administration heeding tqj 
Student Senate.My concerné 
were lessened a bit when I! 
saw that our list of demandai 
did not include any mention; 
of Student Senate; addition*; 
ally our spokesperson was] 
Greg Haverkamp, who is noÇ 
known for liberal activism.,;
The students at this demii 
onstration managed to keep! 
power games and extrane* 
Please see LIBRARY, page 6

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 19935
Diversity will take its toll\U $*Jj
Ronak Slnghal
When Carnegie Mellon University was 
originally founded, its purpose was to give 
its students a technical education so that 
they would be able to be productive in soci­
ety later in life. As more students treaded 
the path to institutions of higher education, 
the competition for places became intense 
£nd schools generally accepted students on 
the basis of merit only.
But now that has changed. One of the big 
buzzwords in academia today is “diversity.” 
Schools strive to become more diverse be­
cause it is the politically correct thing to do, 
and often in the process they only proceed to 
hurt the students. For the diversity that 
they seek is not true diversity, but only an 
attempt to wreak revenge upon those in 
society who are successful.
Look at some examples of the way that 
tihis so-called diversity has taken hold in 
classrooms across America. At the Univer­
sity of Minnesota, the school has proposed to 
eliminate both the French and German lan­
guage programs because they “fall short of 
satisfyinguniversity initiatives in diversity.” 
. Now, to me, it seems that there is less 
diversity when choices among cultural 
classes are reduced, but maybe I just don’t 
understand the concept. Let’s try another 
example.
At Portland State University, every stu­
dent must take two “diversity classes” 
that study history “from the vantage points 
of oppres sed or historically di scriminated” 
people.
One of the suggested courses is the 60’s 
counterculture as an oppressed group. 
Again, forcing students to study about a 
particular group—in this case, oppressed 
people — does not lead to diversity; it only 
leads to a shifting of what is being taught.
I have no problem with schools teaching 
classes in new languages or about histori­
cally discriminated people. My problem 
with this “diversity” 
is when students 
are forced to sacri­
fice a course of study 
in the name of di­
versity.
The greatest ex­
amples of schools 
trying to become 
more diverse are 
apparent in the ad- 
missions office.
Here is where stu- ____________________
dents are accepted ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ 
and rejected and where their fate for life is 
possibly determined. It would seem to me 
that the school would want to select the 
people that are the most qualified to at­
tend the school based on merit alone. Yet 
many schools are not shy about the prefer­
ential treatment they give to certain mi­
norities over other applicants, most nota­
bly women, blacks, and Hispanics.
Again, I understand that administra­
tors believe that a college campus is meant
to expose its students to new ideas and 
people. But what about the students 
who are not accepted to schools, but are 
more qualified than someone else who 
was accepted because of his or her sex or 
race? Why are those people punished for 
who they are? If a school wants to be the 
best, it should accept students solely on 
merit.
We live in a diverse nation and a 
diverse world; it is not as though with­
out these programs schools would all be 
white male institutions. If schools ac-
What about students who are not ac­
cepted to schools, but are more quali­
fied than someone accepted because 
of his or her race? Why are those 
people punished for who they are? 
[Schools] should accept people solely 
on merit
cepted on merit, they still would find 
themselves with a diverse student body.
In addition, by showing that merit is 
all that matters, schools would actually 
be symbolizing the beginning of what 
hopefully would be the end of racial and 
gender problems in this nation.
Many people will argue that certain 
people deserve certain advantages now 
because they didn’t have them earlier in 
life, but America is the land of opportu­
nity and it should be the individual trying 
to gain the opportunity, not some institu­
tion granting it to him while someone 
more qualified who has worked hard is 
being punished for being who he or she is.
Finally, if schools really seek diversity, 
why don’t they question applicants about 
their respective ideologies and preferences 
in music? Why don’t schools ask students 
what sports they like to watch on televi­
sion and what their favorite color is?
I imagine that most administrators 
would say that the answers to those ques­
tions are trivial and do not re­
ally say anything about the 
person.
I would agree, but would also 
say the same is true of race and 
gender, and if these questions 
are not important, then nei­
ther are those.
“Diversity” at American uni­
versities has taken its toll, from 
European languages being 
taken out of the curriculum to
________ qualified students being re-
¦*¦¦¦ jected from schools for being 
who they are.
Such diversity is not true diversity, but 
simply an attempt to punish successful 
people. And I believe that until such at­
tempts stop, America will not be the happy, 
safe, loving utopia that many people wish 
it were.
Ronak Singhal is a freshman planning 
to major in Electrical and Computer Engi­
neering.
Gay rights are now personal
Jason Specland
In downtown Ft. Lauderdale 
, on Progresso Drive just south 
of Sunrise boulevard, there is 
a small coffeehouse called The 
Mudhouse. 
vt It’s a nice little out-of-the- 
rn way place for us neo-hippies to 
get away for a while. Every 
Wednesday night, we all get 
together and read our poetry. 
It’s enough to make any aging 
beatnik smile.
This column, though, isn’t 
„really about that place, but 
rather about some of the ex­
traordinary people who patron­
ize the store, and the lessons one 
can learn about life
if one pays atten- ------------------
tion.
This is the story 
of a person we’ll call 
Dave. We were in­
troduced at the 
Mudhouse by a mu­
tual friend one 
evening. Sitting at 
the outdoor tables, 
we sat, we talked, 
we drank coffee, 
and we watched the 
people walking by. ------------------
It was one of 
those instant friendships that 
seem to come along once or twice 
in a lifetime, if you’re lucky.
Over the next couple of weeks
of summer vacation, we spent a 
great deal of time together. He’s 
an accomplished student actor,
He was as good a friend as I'd ever 
had in my life, and I’m very sad that I 
had to leave him to come back to 
CMU. Oh, yes, and one other thing. 
Dave's gay. For most people, that 
shouldn’t really matter.
has a beautiful singing voice, and 
is a talented musician. We found 
that we liked much of the same 
music, and we’d often sit and lis­
ten to They Might Be Giants ‘ 
albums. He was as good a friend 
as I’d ever had in my life, and I’m
------------------------------ very sad
that I had 
to leave 
him to 
come back 
to CMU.
Oh, yes, 
and one 
other 
thing. 
Dave’s gay.
For most 
people,
-------------------------------that
shouldn’t
really matter. Most people in the 
civilized world have come to grips 
with the fact that homosexuals in 
our society should be treated just
like everyone else. There are a 
few people out there, though, 
who wouldn’t be so nice to Dave.
There are people who’d brand 
him a sodomite and condemn 
him to their narrow-minded 
Hell. There are those who’d 
deny him his constitutional 
rights to free speech and free 
expression just because of his 
sexual preference. There are 
people out there who’d fire him 
from his job or evict him from 
his apartment merely because 
Dave chooses to express his love 
for other men.
There are even those who, 
hiding behind a mask of sup­
posed morals and wearing the 
blinders of hatred, would beat 
up Dave... or even kill him.
Please see RIGHTS, page 6
Animals deserve same rights as humans
Matt Ball
:Most people I know have an aversion to 
tQfturing and killing non-human animals. 
But these people ignore how they directly 
contribute to suffering and death; they can’t 
believe that someone would be willing to be 
arrested or to publicly fast to protest this
unseen slaughter. When I mention that 
many people died to end the exploitation of 
the slaves, they look at me like I have lost 
my mind. Slaves and animals? Surely he 
doesn’t equate a dog or a rat with a human 
being!
If all humans are equal, are all non­
human animals somehow inferior to hu­
mans? Dogs and cows and mice don't ran­
domly rape, murder, desecrate the envi­
ronment, or systematically destroy any 
creature that doesn’t look, talk, or think 
like them. Still, if one believes that hu­
mans are somehow “superior” to other 
animals, does this make it acceptable to 
follow the “might makes right” philoso­
phy and exploit and kill other animals?
Why do humans have a right to free­
dom and non-exploitation? Because of 
their intelligence? What then of an irre­
versibly retarded child? What if we could 
breed a race of test-tube, irreversibly 
retarded children? Would it then be O.K 
to force feed them laundry detergent 
until they died? Would it be acceptable 
to keep them in wire cages, so small that
they could not stretch their arms or legs? 
Would anyone like to eat the roasted corpse 
of one of these “unintelligent” creatures, 
even if it tasted wonderful?
Why is the idea of eating another hu­
man animal repulsive? Because the ani­
mal now looks like us?
But like the corporate labs and the fac­
tory farms of today, we would never have 
to see any of what goes on until a neatly 
wrapped package appeared in the 
butcher’s section of our friendly neighbor- 
Please see ANIMALS, page 6
A PERSON’S
OPINION
The Tartan often tells you 
what we think should be 
‘changed at CMU. Therefore, 
11we wanted to give you the 
1 chance to say what you wanted 
to change at the school. If there 
was one thing you could 
change about CMU, what 
would that be?
Tanya Bhothinard
Freshman
H&SS
“The weather — move the 
school out of Pittsburgh to some­
place warmer, like Missouri.”
Gabriela Hernandez
Freshman
CFA
“Better social activities. 
There aren’t many social 
activities, and if there are, 
they aren’t publicized well.”
Derek Winter 
Senior
Policy and Management
Jennifer Urso/Tartan Photo Editor
Tobey Blieksem
Freshman
MCS
“Make the administration “The food at the Highlander, 
more responsive to students maybe some variety in the 
needs, like maybe changingreg- menu.” 
istration.”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief....Brendan McFeely
Managing Ed.....Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr.........Michael Harris
News Editor...............Frank Michels
Forum Editor...........Andrew Sproule
Sports Ed. .Lubomir W. Kochanskyj
Features Editor...........Lauren Heinz
Diversions Editor..........Tina L. Urso
Calendar Editor .......Laura McClure
Magazine Co-Editors ...Mami Borek 
Barbara Reyes 
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGinness
Art Editor..................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor...............Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr..........Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr.............Keegan Folk
Copy Manager.......Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..........Chad McDaniel
Asst. Forum Ed............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Ed............Eric Strauss
Asst Diversions Ed..............Tara Zane
Asst Magazine Eds. .Trfnette Chandler
Asst Production Mgr.....Derek Wahfla
Darkroom Manager.....Nathan Houser
Photo staff Manager.........Kevin Chen
Contributing Editors 
Megan Dietz, Dexter Kobayashi
Senior Staff 
Daniel Frey, David Hunt, Jason 
Togyer
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Mahue 
Dutta, And! Francioni, Andy 
Glendinning, Jason Heinlein, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Rich Kwiatkowski, 
Declan McCullagh, Jason Speckland, 
Steph Stine, Jennifer Turner, Erik 
Witte
Comics 
Matt Goldberg
Photo
Rob Glaser, Kerry Hagan, Reid 
Hecker, Amy Sims
Darkroom 
Nan Wang
Production 
Tony deFIglo, Becky Elroy, Michael 
Gibson, Brockett Horne, Janice 
McClure
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerin Kay, Anne 
Lopez, Ed Slavishak
Business 
Rose Mills, Olivia Raharja
Junior Staff 
Vineet Agarwal, Matt Bail, Jin Bae, 
Jennifer BarkJn, John Biggs, Allan 
Bourdius, Christa Bower, James S. 
Brown, Zhuohau Cai, Richard Un 
Chin, Eugene Chung, Sunanda Desai, 
Bassem El-Dasher, Andrew Flores, 
Dan Goldstein, Tom Harper, Edward 
Hayes, Eugene Hong, Sharona 
Jacobs, Markus Kassbohrer, Chad 
Khunpitiluck, Lisa Kruglak, D. B. 
Krepps, Jason Ma, Andrew 
McDermott, Carrie McDonough, 
Matthew Messner, Dizzy Murphy, 
Buck Neel, Nicole Nowitz, Eileen 
O’Shea, David Perry, Monica Roijmar, 
Kanda Runapongsa, Chlnton Shah, 
Ronak Sinchaz, Carolyn Skarado, 
Kate Smith, Jim Snyder, Margaret 
Stallings, Leanna Surlna, Bethany 
Sutton, Jenna Sweterlitsch, Roger 
Wang, John Weber, Kathy Wright, 
Calvin Yao, Elizabeth Zamzbelli
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the se­
mester or academic year. The editorials ap­
pearing at the beginning of the opinion sec­
tion are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political car­
toons are the opinions of individual creators. 
Tho Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors 
who are usually, but not necessarily, mem­
bers of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
Include the writer's address and phone num­
ber for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that let­
ters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright © 1993 by Tho Tartan. Tho 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy It deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: Tho Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Funded In part by your Activities Fee. All 
rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon » 13 September 1993
Israel, PLO peace is doubtful
_________Mahua Putta
Most of us have heard about 
the peace talks and the upcoming 
Gaza and Jericho First proposal. 
How much good this will bring is 
unpredictable, but it does seem 
like a step in the right direction. 
In any case, this is a pretty big 
step for Israel. They have gone 
from denying the existence of the 
Palestinians to recognizing and 
talking to the PLO.
In order to ensure peace, Israel 
will have to continue making such 
policy changes. According to the 
United Nations General Assem­
bly meeting of December 11,1992, 
there are five basic principles for 
achieving peace in the region. 
Here are three of the five points:
1) Israel withdraws from the 
occupied territories (namely 
southern Lebanon, or what Is­
rael likes to call its “Security 
Zone”).
2) Israel dismantles its settle­
ments in occupied territories.
3) A guarantee of free access to 
all holy sites.
The other two principles regard 
the re-integration of Palestinians 
and the provision of security ar­
rangements for all people and 
states in the region.
I have to admit that I have my 
doubts about all this. I don’t have 
much faith in the Israeli govern­
ment, and I don’t think that they 
will make any of the necessary 
changes anytime soon. If you ex­
amine Israel’s poli- ___________
cies towards Pales­
tinians, you can see 
my point.
I’ll begin with the 
deportation of 415 
Palestinians. Yes, 
many more than 
415 Palestinians 
have been driven 
from their homes, 
but I’m referring to 
the mass deporta­
tion that occurred ____________
a few months ago.
The deportation violated 
Israel’s obligations as a nation 
under the 1940 Fourth Geneva 
Convention, yet Israel does not 
see anything wrong with their 
action.
In 1989, the U.S. State Depart­
ment reported that Israeli sol­
diers often used gunfire when it 
was not necessary.
I believe that report to be valid, 
since Israeli soldiers find it es­
sential to shoot at people, often 
children, for throwing rocks.
Consider, also, the case of the
Israeli Defense Force. In one situ­
ation they killed five Arab men 
whom they claimed were terror­
ists out to kill civilians. Keep in 
mind that the Israelis could not 
prove the allegations.
There is also the issue of tor­
ture. Shin Bet is an Israeli inter-
Their course of action is to abduct 
Arabs and torture them. Torture in­
cludes imprisonment, beatings, and 
hooding. Hooding is when a hood is 
soaked in water or urine and placed 
over the prisoner's head.
nal security service that basically 
exists to interrogate Arabs. Their 
course of action is to abduct Ar­
abs — often innocent Arabs — 
and torture them.
Torture includes imprisonment 
(and we’re not talking about rela­
tively nice American cells), beat­
ings and hooding. Hooding is 
when a hood, many times soaked 
with water or sometimes urine, is 
placed over the prisoner’s head, 
making it difficult to breathe. 
Torture is Israel’s method of ex­
tracting “confessions” from Ar­
abs. Later, when cases reach 
court, Shin Bet lies about the 
confessions that are made.
On October30,1987, anlsraeli 
Commission of Inquiry, whose 
members included Moshe 
Landau, former President of the 
Israeli Supreme Court, concluded
__________________ that Shin
Bet agents 
routinely 
use torture 
to force con- 
fessions. 
Did they de­
cide to do 
anything to 
stop the tor­
ture? No. 
Instead 
they drew
__________________ up some
sort of doc­
trine stating that some torture 
was necessary and that “ ... a 
moderate measure of physical 
pressure ...” is, in fact, quite le­
gal. A secret appendix to the doc­
trine defined the amount of force 
considered as “moderate.”
In all of these instances, Israel 
feels totally justified with its ac­
tions.
Regardless of the United Na­
tions’ frequent condemnations of 
Israel for its violation of human 
rights, most of the world turns a 
blind eye on Israeli policies.
Whenever a nation dares to 
speak out, Israel is quick to retort 
with an accusation of anti- 
Semitism or Nazism.
The government accusing oth­
ers of Nazism is the same govern­
ment employing Nazi tactics.
The deportations, shootings, 
torture, and Shin Bet all remind 
me of Germany during the Third 
Reich. What Israel has been do­
ing to the Palestinians is no dif­
ferent from what Hitler did to the 
Jews, Gypsies, and other “unde­
sirables.”
I don’t believe in the claims 
that the Israeli government has 
to enforce such policies due to the 
terrorist acts of Arabs. The ma­
jority of Arabs are not terrorists. 
Furthermore, the Palestinians 
are more or less driven to vio­
lence; when else does anyone hear 
their grievances? No, I don’t con­
done violence, nor do I advocate 
terrorism. However, I don’t see 
Palestinian actions as anything 
more than self defense.
In the sense that Israel is a 
modern-day Nazi Germany, Pal­
estinians are much like the resis­
tance movements of World War
II.
Yes, those movements did re­
sort to violence. However I can­
not recall any instance where, for 
example, the French or Belgium 
Resistance were accused of ter­
rorism.
Those resistance movements 
succeeded, and it seems to me as 
if the Palestinian resistance is' 
progressing, if not succeeding, 
Israel finally recognizes the Pal- 
estinian people. I have to acknowl. 
edge that as a positive move. And 
I have to acknowledge the up. 
coming peace talks as a positive 
move.
However, I’m afraid there’s 
more to the issue than a few posi­
tive moves. The peace plan is a 
pretty package, and Israel is put­
ting forward a pretty face, but it 
takes much more than prettiness 
to resolve this issue.
What happens to the Palestin­
ians who are not in the realm of 
the treaty? What will happen to 
the 200 hundred Palestinians still 
in exile? What will be done about 
the other Palestinians removed 
from their homes, or ones who 
have been tortured or killed? 
What actions will be taken re­
garding Israel’s human rights 
violations?
These are questions that must 
be answered. It is to te hoped 
that the talks will go beyond smil­
ing and playing nice, and will 
finally address the problems that 
have been long ignored.
Mahua Dutta is a junior En­
glish MajorStereotypes are inequable to fraternities
Editor’s notebook is a feature which gives mem­
bers of The Tartan’s Editorial Board the opportu­
nity to express their individual opinions. Editor’s 
Notebook presents the opinions of the individual 
author only, not necessarily the opinions of The 
Tartan or the Editorial Board.
As a member of the Greek community at Carnegie 
Mellon, I strongly object to the column [“Women 
get treated like objects” 9/7] that appeared in The
Tartan . It is my opinion that Kris Hinrichs’ op/ed 
piece is blatantly biased and completely out of line.
I wish to emphasize first of all that I speak for 
myself and not necessarily my fraternity or others 
at Carnegie Mellon.
Has she ever been to Pi Lambda Phi, ------------
the fraternity she blasted in her col­
umn? Has she ever met the brothers, or 
spoken with the women who frequent 
PiLam? Portraying those brothers and 
the other Greek men on campus as “des­
perate, slimy guys” is an insult to the 
dignity and fratemalism that the Greek 
community stands for.
Regardless of the aesthetic appeal of 
the flyer in question, the attack on the CMU 
fraternities is far more degrading to men than any
advertisement could ever be to women. By describ­
ing a “typical” Greek as a man who thinks “with his 
genitals,” her column insults the intelligence, mor­
als, and integrity of all men affiliated with the 
Greek community. The column also emphasizes
Portraying those brothers, and 
the other Greek men on cam­
pus, as “desperate, slimy guys’ 
is an insult to [their] dignity...
the very stereotypes it apparently wishes to elimi­
nate.
The brothers of Pi Lambda Phi and the other 
houses on campus are polite, friendly, decent men 
who have plenty of compassion for women and 
their rights. An irresponsible column such as the 
one of September 7 does not remotely consider the 
benefits fraternities bring to the college commu­
nity.
Such an opinion boggles my mind. My friends 
and brothers find the column to be offensive and 
utterly untrue.
The men of the fraternity quad are well aware 
that “There’s more to life than beer and empty- 
headed babes.”
Eric Strauss, The Tartan assistant sports editor, 
is a sophomore creative writing major and a brother 
of Pi Lambda Phi fraternity.
Students speak minds
LIBRARY, from page 4
ous politics out of the whole 
matter.Still, I have to question 
the goals of some of these dem­
onstrators. There was a feeling 
of “sticking it” to the adminis­
tration as opposed to campaign­
ing for more student involve­
ment in administration deci­
sions.
In the past, Student Senate 
has given little concern to the 
desires ofthe students. Yet stu­
dent involvement was one of 
the rallying points of the dem­
onstration.
So I have a challenge for all 
the Student Government mem­
bers who were at the protest: 
start pushing for real student 
involvement in your decisions. 
Have activities on campus to 
make students aware of Stu­
dent Senate. Allow students the 
option of bindingreferendums on 
important issues, if they fulfill 
significant yet reasonable re­
quirements beforehand. More 
importantly, listen to the stu­
dents and try to give them what 
they want. Then and only then 
can we have structure on cam­
pus.
Student Government will have 
a mandate from the students, and 
the administration will have good 
reason to listen to Student Gov­
ernment. Who knows, maybe if 
the administration recognized 
Student Government as repre­
sentative of the students, the ad­
ministration would have con­
sulted Student Government be­
fore ever taking action.
In closing, I don’t expect any 
change from the library on the
hours in the near future; a sec­
ond demonstration is planned 
this Thursday and every 
Thursday until the adminis­
tration gives us what we de­
serve. So if you want your con­
cerns to be heard, meet at the 
Fence at 11:30 pm every 
Thursday night. The Student 
Government President and 
many members of Student Sen­
ate will likely be there.
If enough students who agree 
with me show up, we can not 
only achieve success in keep­
ing the library open, we might 
even achieve success in get­
ting represented in Student 
Government.
James S. Brown is an activ­
ist, but he still doesn't listen to 
folk music.
Friendship informs opinion
Animal slaughter is horrible
RIGHTS, from page 5
While I’ve always been in favor 
of equal rights for gays and lesbi­
ans, I’ve never actually known 
one as well as I know Dave.
While my -----------------------------
stand on the 
issue al­
ways had a 
moral and a 
constitu­
tional back­
ing, it never 
had quite
the same -----------------------------
personal ur- 
gency as it does now.
Had I known Dave last school 
year, I would have gone with him 
and thousands of other gays, les­
bians, and bisexuals to Washing­
ton, D.C. to demand the equal 
protection under the law they de­
serve.
For me now, the issue is one of 
friendship.
To quote many a bad movie 
teaser: “This time, it’s personal.” 
So the next time someone says 
that gays should go back into the 
closet where they belong or the
... the next time I hear of a gay 
man being beaten up by a group of 
cowardly bigots, I will fight back 
with renewed rancor ...
next time I hear of a gay man 
being beaten up by a group of 
cowardly bigots, I will fight back 
with renewed rancor — not only 
out of moral indignation, but also 
out of friendship.
Some people would balk at my 
use ofthe word “moral” to defend 
homosexuality. I guess morality’s 
in the eye of the beholder.
Some people get their morals 
from tall buildings with statues 
of some guy hanging from a cross. 
Some get them from small boxes 
that shoot electrons at glowing j
_________ phosphors.
I get my moral val­
ues from a small cof- I 
fee house on Prog- 
resso Drive, just | 
south of Sunrise. 
Boulevard in Ft.
Lauderdale, Florida.
And they’re just as
_________ valid and important
¦¦¦¦¦¦ as anyone else’s.And
if you do go to the Mudhouse, get 
the amaretto coffee.
It’s the best.
Jason Specland is a sophomore 
Political Science major. You can 
talk to Jason every Friday at 5 
P.M. on his WRCT talk show, 
"The World’s Address” with Chris 
Morrow. -
ANIMALS, from page 5
hood grocer.
No, the only real reason for the 
respect and rights we grant to all 
humans is that we all feel pain, 
and it would not be right to cause 
suffering in another sentient hu­
man. But the animals we so rou­
tinely torture and murder for 
some “benefit” also feel pain. 
Their lives are filled with it con­
stantly.
By sheer numbers alone, the 
pain of the animals we exploit 
outweighs any suffering in the 
course of human history. Every 
year in the U.S., six billion sen­
tient non-human animals — be­
ings able to feel pain and plea­
sure, creatures who desire to live 
like we do — live miserable fives 
and are murdered because we
have grown fond of a fleeting taste 
of flesh.
Should we, as beings capable of 
moral thought and action, take 
pleasure or pride in this slaugh­
ter, a practice entirely defined 
and determined by dollars and 
death?
Is the fact that we inflict such 
unnecessary cruelty a sign of su­
periority?
It is not a question of whether 
or not to “give up” meat. Rather, 
it is a question of viewing other 
beings merely as “food” instead of 
the autonomous creatures they 
are.
Can we act from a true ethic? 
Do we possess a modicum of com­
passion?
Or, like the masters of the old 
South or the ethnic “cleansers” of
Bosnia, are we merely slaves to 
tradition, no matter how gratu­
itous and gruesome?
As Issac Bashevius Singer said, 
“In the way we treat animals, we 
are all Nazis.”
There are many arguments — 
health, environmental degrada­
tion, world hunger — showing 
why our hunger for the flesh of 
other animals harms humanity.
In the end, however, it comes 
down to the fact that this unfath­
omable tragedy is the greatest 
injustice today. Indeed, it is the 
greatest failure of our “human­
ity.”
Matt Ball is the Pittsburgh co­
ordinator of Animal Liberation 
Action and a Ph.D student in en­
gineering and public policy.
FREE CATALOG
of Government Books
Send for your copy today!
Free CatalogBox 37000 Washington DC 20013-7000
ATTENTION:
dancers, cheerleaders, 
theatre majors, etc. 3WS 
RADIO is looking for a 
fun, energetic person to 
act as our station mascot. 
Your schedule must be 
flexible to include 
evenings and weekends. 
Call 3WS promotions at 
323-S3e0 for more
Immigration
Services
VENTRESCA, VENTRESCA & WALKER 
also provides landlord/tenant services 
(special discouiited $50.00 student rate 
for lease review), immigration and 
discrimination/civil rights litigation 
services to students and faculty.
CONTACT: 
Lisa Ventresca
nifrIitcab sifrIitca y xamgiIAttorneys at Law
The Westin William Penn Hotel
530 William Penn Place • Suite 357 • Box 88
Pittsburgh « Pennsylvania « 15219_______________
Phone: (412) 261 • 5366 Fax: (412) 261 • 5369

---------------------------------------------------

Take that!...
vUC 9Msha/ vc/aFms 
nuc/clc at R.r 
Hc/RcsT i/ric/rT Ra 
Tihur as R.r 
aiiaThRhas, vcerVhr 
UrFFas CshPr/ThRm 
.aTRrl c RaM/scersR 
R.hT icTR wrrursl, 
nrr icVr ) ta/ cFF 
R.r .hV.FhV.RT,
By ERIC STRAUSS
\Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
When freshman midfielder Tommy Layton joined 
the CMU men’s soccer team, the former All-Florida 
high school player just tried to win a starting spot. 
He has quickly proved to be an impact player, 
flying the game-winning goal in the Tartans’ 
fat two games.
. • Against Washington & Jefferson College on 
Wednesday, Layton headed in a rebound after 
junior Jeff McJxmkin hit the post on a free kick for 
fte lone goal in a 1-0 win. Against Case Western 
Reserve University (CWRU) on Saturday, Layton’s 
^8-yard strike in the 12th minute pavSd the way 
Si a 2-0 CMU win over the Spartans and CMU’s 
first 2-0 start in four years.
I didn’t expect to make this much [of an im­
pact],’’ Layton said after the Case Western Reserve 
Same. “You really can’t think you’re going to come 
°ut and score a pair of goals [in your first two 
fenes], n jusj. 0f happened that way.”
.fTommy had a great goal,” Tartan head coach 
™k Gaudioso said after the game with the Spar­
es. “He’s going to be a good player. He’s only a 
T6shman, but he was one of the top two or three 
People still going full speed at the end of the game.”
Meanwhile, senior goalkeeper David Shapiro 
continued his winning ways, posting both shutouts 
this week, including picking up his first-ever win 
over CWRU.
Shapiro made six saves against the Spartans, 
and allowed only one significant scoring opportu­
nity. Late in the game, CWRU forward Abdul
“You really can’t think 
you’re going to come out 
and score a pair of goals 
[in your first two games]. 
It just kind of happened 
that way.”
— Tommy Layton
Rahim Jamal fanned on a shot in the penalty area, 
but picked up the rebound, and then hit the post 
shooting over a prone Shapiro.
Junior forward Alex Amezquita clinched the 
game in the 70th minute when he outraced several 
Spartans, including goalkeeper Matt Planisek, to a 
loose ball in the penalty area, and popped the ball 
past Planisek for his first goal of the season.
Senior co-captain Min Chong had assists on both 
goals.
Camegie Mellon applied a ton of offensive pres­
sure against the physical Spartan team, getting 13 
shots on goal. However, the Spartans’ physical 
play took the Tartans out of their game to some 
extent, with 28 fouls called on each team, many in 
retaliation, and six yellow cards between the two 
teams. The officiating was inconsistent, as referee 
Blaz Pesorda called some fouls quickly, and let 
others slide with a smile.
Gaudioso was pleased with his team’s perfor­
mance, but again lamented the short pre-season 
which cost the Tartans valuable conditioning.
“We’re still not game-fit, and that’s my biggest 
concern,” he said.
“We had a couple of nice goals, but we’re still not 
there, and I credit that to fitness and the short pre­
season. The guys got frustrated by how physical 
the game was, and they [CWRU] had plenty of 
chances. If they were a more mature team, they 
might have put a couple of them away.”
Men's soccer team off to 2-0 start, 
defeat W&J, Case Western Reserve
atPear season opens at Gesling StadiumTartan football hunts down Washington University of St. Louis, wins 30-21
By RICH KWIATKOWSKI
tfartan Staffwriter
!:The Tartans increased their 
winning streak to seven games 
dating back to last season, and 
bolstered their NCAA. Division 
Til record for scoring to 197 
Straight games, as they defeated 
the Washington University of 
jlissouri Bears 30-21. This win 
gives the Tartans a 2-0 record 
overall and a 1-0 record in the 
JJAA for the 1993 season.
It TheTartansanchoredtheirvic- 
tory on a few timely offensive and 
defensive plays. The most dra­
matic play came in the fourth 
quarter when Washington senior 
quarterback Aaron Keen was in­
tercepted in the end zone by Tar­
tan senior defensive back Jerry 
Fuller.
“The quarterback ran the play 
on a silent count. When the ball 
¡pas snapped I did what coach 
(Terry] Bodnar [the defensive 
coordinator] taught me. I followed 
the receiver into the end zone, 
looked up when he did, and took 
the ball away from him,” said 
Siller.
'«The two teams saw the lead 
change four times until the fourth 
quarter, when the Tartans scored 
a touchdown and a field goal to 
put the game out of reach for the 
jears.
i “[The Bearsl are an excellent 
football team,” said Tartan Head 
Coach Rich Lackner. “They never 
gave up and executed well.” 
Carnegie Mellon received the 
^pening kickoff, and senior wide 
receiver Jarrod Siket returned 
the ball 30 yards to give the Tar­
tans the ball on their own 37 j'ard 
line. The Tartans moved the ball 
well on the ground, but the drive 
^tailed at the Washington 41 yard 
line, forcing the Tartans to punt, 
v;Washington took over on their 
own 15 yard line. The Bears came 
out throwing, challenging the 
Tartan secondary. The Tartan 
defensive backfield and line re­
sponded well by covering the Bear 
receivers and pressuring Keen. 
Keen did complete a 19-yard pass, 
but the Bears were forced to punt 
three plays later, 
if. The Tartans took over the ball •on their own 17 yard line and 
went to the ground as senior full­
back Brian Horton pounded the 
ball up the middle for a gain of 13 
yards. Junior halfback Jason 
grusky took the ball up the 
Middle for a gain of nine, but the 
Tartans were forced to punt after 
a loss of yards on a rush and an 
incomplete pass by senior quar­
terback Chris Dee.
The Bears moved the ball well 
"gainst the Tartan defense.
Washingtonl5. The Bear defense 
was looking for the run up the 
middle, and Dee executed a per­
fect fake hand-off to Grusky and 
then found junior halfback Jim 
Filicko all alone in the end zone. 
The Tartans came back with a 
similar play and completed the 
two-point conversion to take the 
lead 21-14.
“It was a nice play for us to run. 
We ran it well in practice. Every­
body bit on Grusky, and I saw 
Jimmy open. I could have run for 
the first down, but it’s a feeling I 
had. I took a chance, and it paid 
off,” said Dee.
The Bears took the ball on their 
next possession, covering80 yards 
on 11 plays to score their third 
touchdown and tie the game at 
21.
The Tartans did not lose the 
lead for long. They marched down 
the field on the backs of Grusky 
and Horton. Dee threw his third 
touchdown pass to senior tight 
end Mike Shirey for a four-yard 
score.
Although they almost tied the 
game on a two-yard pass, the 
Bears could not recover from the 
last CMU touchdown. They took 
the ball to the CMU two yard line 
when Keen dropped back to pass. 
He found a receiver in the end 
zone and lofted a high floater. 
Tartan defensive back Fuller, cov­
ering the Bear receiver, turned 
around and wrestled for the ball. 
Fuller intercepted the ball in the 
end zone for a touchback and put 
the game out of reach for Wash­
ington.
Tartan senior place kicker Fred 
Harding added a 25-yard field 
goal late in the fourth quarter to 
ice the victory for the Tartans.
The Tartans did most of their 
damage on the ground. The of­
fense rushed for 231 yards. 
Horton led the ground attack with 
20 carries for 93 yards, and Siket 
carried the ball twice for 41 yards. 
Filicko contributed with 50 yards, 
and Grusky, who was shaken up 
early in the game, ran for 27 
yards.
“We found a few plays that 
worked. I can’t take all the credit. 
The line played a great game,” 
said Horton.
Siket also had a great day re­
turning the Bears kickoffs. He 
returned two kickoffs for 64 yards, 
giving the Tartans good field po­
sition. Siket also caught three 
passes for 62 yards, including the 
44-yard touchdown play.
Dee seemed more relaxed and 
in control in leading the Tartan 
offense. He completed 10 out of 
15 passes for 129 yards and three 
passes went for touchdowns. Dee 
also ran for 32 yards.
“It felt smoother today. I got 
into a groove and the line pro­
tected me well so I could spot the 
open receivers. The offense 
showed a lot of character and 
played as a unit. We put it in our 
heads to win and did what we had 
to do,” said Dee.
Defensively, the Tartans al­
lowed Washington 377 total of­
fensive yards. The Tartan sec­
ondary was hit for 238 passing 
yards but made up for it with big 
plays and tough coverage when it 
was needed.
num for a five-yard loss. On the 
next play, Burton sacked Keen. 
These losses forced Washington 
to punt. The Tartans took advan­
tage of this and scored on the 44- 
yard Dee to Siket pass.
The Tartans travel to the Uni­
versity of Rochester next week to 
face another UAA rival, the 
Yellowjackets. Rochester handed 
Camegie Mellon their first UAA 
defeat last year, and the Tartans 
are out for revenge. The outcome 
of next week’s game could deter­
mine the winner of the UAA
Reid Hecker/Tartan Photographer 
9Msha/ .cFtocEu 9he khFhEua l/cVT c •cT.hsVRas C, lrtrslr/ whR. .heB 
w.hFr R.r Hc/Rcs lrtrsTr E/MT.rT c .rFiFrTT «rc/T /MsshsV ocEu,
The defense stepped up when it 
counted most, registering two 
timely sacks by senior defensive 
tackle Ben Burton and senior de­
fensive tackle Shane Billings. Se­
nior inside linebacker Chad Wil­
son and senior inside linebacker 
Jeff Blue led the Tartan defense 
with seven tackles each.
The biggest defense series for 
the Tartans came in the second 
quarter. Junior defensive tackle 
Merle Atkinson pounded Han-
championship.
“Rochester is an experienced 
team with a returning core of 
players. We are going to have to 
have a great week of practice and 
a great game next week,” said 
Lackner.
The Tartans will stay on the 
road and play Juniata College on 
September 25 before returning 
for the Homecoming game against 
powerhouse Allegheny College on 
October 2 at 2 pm.
Courtesy of CMU Athletics Dept. Reid Hecker/Tartan Photographer
nrsha/whlr /rEhrPr/ 9c//al nhurRtFhrT icTR R.r «rc/T lrtrsTr ta/ R.r H¦,
Rushes of 19 and 30 yards by 
junior halfback Tommie Pierson 
helped bring the Bears to the 
CMU 31 yard line. On third down 
and eight, Keen completed a 10- 
yard pass to senior wide receiver 
Guillermo Arbona, who was hit 
solidly by Tartan junior defen­
sive back Steve Voytovich. The 
hit caused Arbona to lose the ball, 
and Tartan senior inside line­
backer Chad Wilson recovered 
the fumble.
The Tartans squandered the 
turnover and punted after mov­
ing the ball only two yards. The 
punt was returned 52 yards by 
junior running back Todd 
Hannum, and the Bears took over 
on the Tartan six yard line. On 
the next play Keen completed a 
six-yard touchdown pass to give 
the Bears an early 7-0 lead.
Camegie Mellon started the 
last drive of the first quarter with 
good field position thanks to a 34- 
yard kickoff return by Siket. The 
Tartans kept the ball on the 
ground, electing to let Horton and 
Grusky mn the ball through the 
Bear defense. The Tartans ran 
the ball to the Washington eight 
yard line, where they had a criti­
cal third down and five. Sopho­
more halfback Mike Mathias was 
given the ball on a reverse which 
went for six yards and a first 
down. After a second and goal 
quarterback keeper failed, 
Horton took the ball through the 
middle and scored on a one-yard 
rush.
The Tartans caught a break on 
the ensuing kickoff. The Bears
fumbled the return, and CMU 
recovered on the Washington 25 
yard line. The Tartans, however, 
wasted the opportunity when 
Mathias fumbled, and Washing­
ton recovered.
Washington punted after three 
plays, and Camegie Mellon could 
not do much with the ball on their 
drive. Washington took over on 
their eight yard line and punted 
after a series of backfield losses.
The Tartans took over on the 
Washington 44 yard line and 
needed only one play to score. 
Dee completed a sharp pass to 
Siket, who shook off a couple of 
defenders and ended the play 44 
yards downfield to register the 
Tartans’ second touchdown. The 
extra point was no good.
The half ended after the Bears 
missed a field goal, with the score 
13—7 in favor of the Tartans.
Washington started the third 
quarter on their own 29 yard line 
and used a mix of rushes and 
passes to move the ball to the 
CMU 38 yardline. The Bear drive 
seemed dead, but Keen completed 
a fourth down and three pass for 
seven yards and a first down. 
Washington took over the lead on 
the next play with a 31-yard 
touchdown mn by Pierson. The 
missed extra point came back to 
haunt the Tartans, as the Bears 
took the lead 14-13.
Carnegie Mellon answered the 
Bear touchdown two drives later. 
The Tartans took control of the 
ball on their 48 yard line and kept 
the ball on the ground. They were 
faced with fourth and one on the

---------------------------------------------------

Buy Any 
Large Pizza 
Get a Liter of 
Pop FREE!
2 Large 
Traditional 
Cheese Pizzas 
ONLY $10.99
ROSH HASHANAH
Schedule of Services 
Wednesday, September 15, 1993
Erev Rosh Hashanah Dinner 5:15 pm Hillel, 160 N. Craig Street
Egalitarian Conservative Service 7:00 pm Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union
Thursday, September 16, 1993
Egalitarian Conservative Service 9:00 am Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union
Reform Service 10:00 am Assembly Rm, Wm. Pitt Union
Friday, September 17, 1993
Egalitarian Conservative Service 9:00 am Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union
The William Pitt Union is located on the corner of Fifth Avenue and Bigelow Boulevard on 
the campus of the University of Pittsburgh. Students will be meeting in front of Skibo 
(Forbes Avenue side) 1/2 hour before services, and walking over together.
Hillel is a link to the Pittsburgh community - - 
call us if you would like to share a meal with a family or for a 
schedule of services at local congregations.
COORDINATED BY HILLEL
621-8875
They’re like 
typical college roommates. 
Really really cheap.
Right now, you can get a great price on an Apple" printer for your puter lab. You can even get special financing with the Apple Computer 
Macintosh: So you’ll be able to print sharp,; professional-looking papers Loan! See your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the ^ 
right there in your room - without having to wait around at the com- power more college students prefer. The power to be your best: Wm
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
'Ui$M'l>!'ltolljlhi!gslUifalts. ¡il l^rlhil‘,11111- ,«(//¦•.,/«/'//> Atw//rr> {IW.i.t/fleOm^uhr. Inc All ri^bis n-M-ri ,il y/ilc. /Ar.yyVr/'#>«. hu-iWntcr. iiiliinhisl). Vi /ell ritvr mid Ibc/nticr tulh-ymr last tin- nwlcral lnt</cw<irk <,/. l/y»/r Omi/wIit Inc
SORRENTO’S
PIZZA
Come Spend Some Time In Italy!
2 Hoagies 
1 Liter ait Pop 
ONLY 
$8.50
Traditional 
Large Pizza 
One Toj*j»ing
uxitiwy servies* v.-Ht asxia m oNasnm? .a »View 
f ¡¡itch .i proposal. In any c.isc, a portion ;;f the 
gfppmeii b.y. a ns.-ieihinc m ,i departmental
pace will fe paid to tW iwivcr»fy as t:iimpcnw<- 
on tor iftë uiihvies and relaiix) services.
. irdss««i, the i1l«cror may ahijngS for the 
a nwchine 
tt'icii
rsfiy Regulations Subject to the 
plmary
vmtfy tegiil 
and Sti ids 
, pmcsw. 
Thi: univsifsiry ife., 
iisetl ior ?hir mijutlicâlii 
ro.aimissliips hefvocn i
CiSsli !
she utriv«
Ac
discipline
V * * « « * « « ¥ * <¦ 9 ¦
'.amògie. the right r« dismif.;,
¿ft sfiy time mfesctim aï flw -nïta
Toptr hefeiv&r.vf tmsatixiWipfy acadt'niic
Ke.vpiiteitoHtv lor studeni iiitcipli.no at
. hei i|
T tie.)» ot student ¡rfiair.t
mm _ _ ^ 110
; i .'orhrFMtei; on Ds.^ciniinc.
Uk'rtU WH
111
are subieci
proni 
¡wards iiiu 
niVAS paper.
mmmtm
for wmch daofr
The University Committee on Discipline 
is one of the disciplinary groups at Carn- 
: egie Mellon under the direction and 
jurisdiction of the Dean of Student Af­
fairs. Two students are currently needed 
to help in the composition of this impor­
tant university committee.
;r p<!i!Uy : ^ (T1Tm Kuii Jwliv ul Bouu?
For an application and
mçrnbtfi : or a 
tv-
pilier by a i 
, bv a un; vc
-----mafion about the
University Committee on
__ . ¿sc! üî oSi:d!"ns !:i’;ìUììci<:d h; Suidem Sis*Discipline, please contact 
Affairs at 268-2074.
FREE DELIVERY! • $5.00 MINIMUM 
4:00pm - 1 1:00pm
PITT • CMU • OAKLAND
HOURS:
Monday - Friday 1 1:00am - 1 1:00pm
Saturday 4:00pm - 1 1:00pm
Ü1

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 19939
jniversity Rowing Club prepares for upcoming season
vb'>y#I SKARADA
jian Junior Staffwriter
r)ne of the most rewarding sports on campus is 
:w. It takes a dedicated team and a competitive 
,at which requires individuals with self disci- 
ie, endurance, and a confident coxswain. An- 
[er crucial element of rowing is trust. One can 
,er underestimate the power of trust. It is the 
t in each member to contribute their share of 
¦It, that defines this sport. There is something 
ijring about rowing down the river at daybreak, 
witness the birth of a new day while gliding 
iss the water and feeling the surging power of 
stroke is an indescribable feeling. 
ie University Rowing Club, founded in the Pall 
1987 by a CMU graduate, Molly Johnson, has 
udergone some tremendous expansion and 
res over the years. The excellent coaching 
and strong core of dedicated athletes has 
ihtributed to a successful program. Each year the 
¦"port from alumni continues to flourish. Liz 
nter, who has been the head coach of the crew 
am for five and a half years, began rowing while 
udying at Oxford. Her twelve years of experience 
ith the sport, combined with her personal devo- 
on to the team, have created the competitive 
gram that exists today. The rowing season at 
:egie Mellon is a year-long program. The fall 
id spring seasons are the most intense competi- 
fely whereas the summer season is primarily 
¦eational. During a three-month winter off- 
,son there is a special training camp held in 
loume, Florida, along with indoor condition- 
ig and weight lifting. This year, there are 60 
¡bers returning with a nearly 50-50 split be- 
¡en men and women rowers. It is a sport open to 
iple on all levels of ability and experience. Win- 
stresses the fact that she welcomes members 
all kinds of athletic background as long as 
ire is desire to learn and dedication to work 
ird. She says, “there is a necessity to expand all 
nits in order to find out what you are capable of.” 
nter has a basic principle about coaching: “Ev- 
'one who wants to row and race, will. There is no 
.ing of any kind.” And in a sport like crew, with 
ying types of boats, this can be possible.
As the club continues to expand each year, a 
rang community is developing. There is a time to 
am and a time to teach. The upperclassmen 
main active in teaching the novice members. 
Is is their way to give back the knowledge and 
iperience they have acquired as members of the 
¦ew team.
“There is a multidimensional commitment for
the club.” says Soren Roth, crew president. Not 
only does each member have to contribute their 
dedication on the water, but they also must raise 
funds to cover travel expenses and race entries 
throughout the year. The club is funded about 50 
percent by the student activities fee, 10 percent by 
the athletic department and the rest through 
fundraising events. One particular fundraising 
event, which has been successful in the past, is 
Ergomania. Each rower finds a sponsor to support 
them for every meter they row. This year, 
Ergomania will be held in the USX Tower in 
downtown Pittsburgh on October 13 from 9 am-5 
pm. The club is anticipating a supplement of corpo­
rate sponsors and the location for the event will 
provide visibility for the club. In addition to 
fundraising, the club rents boats, trailer spaces 
and provides transportation to regattas to realize 
additional profits. Last year, the club raised over 
$21,000. The crew team practices seven days a 
week. Winter, also Vice-President of the Three 
Rivers Rowing Association, stores all equipment at 
their boathouse. The club shares this boathouse 
with University of Pittsburgh, Duquesne Univer­
sity, Carlow College (which is coached by Anna 
Loney, a Carnegie Mellon graduate) and nine local 
high schools.
Schedule:
Oct. 2 The Head of the Ohio 
Oct. 24 The Head of the Charles (Boston): World’s 
biggest one-day event.
Nov. 6 The Head of Occoquan (D.C. area)
Nov. 13 Frostbite Regatta (Philadelphia)
If anyone is interested in joining crew or finding 
out more about it, the following people can provide 
you with any information:
Coaches:
Liz Winter: 268-8054, (H) 441-5805 
Opal Perry: (H) 731-4006 
Ray Obenza: 268-6312, (H) 371-1991 
Mike Bridges: 268-3104, (H) 371-1991
Club Officers:
President: Soren Roth 
Vice President: Chris Maples 
Secretary: Stephanie King 
Finance: Kirsten Buttler 
Fundraiser: Howard Meisener 
Publicity: Matt Jesik
Vomen’s soccer team 
earns from 4-0 defeat
^ERIC STRAUSS
'.an Assistant Sports Editor
The one good thing that came 
of the CMU women’s soccer 
4-0 loss to Case Western 
rve University (CWRU) is 
"t the team knows how far it 
come, and how far it has yet 
). HeadcoachJulie Shackford 
aid she was disappointed in the 
am’s performance but liked the 
ct that her team was disap- 
kted too.
told the girls this is disap- 
iiiting,” Shackford said after 
e loss. “This could be a bench- 
ark for our season. I always tell 
6m to give 100 percent, and I
Christine Zgoda, who harassed 
the Tartans all day with her ag­
gressive play, beat sophomore 
defender Bridget Caster and se­
nior sweeper Anh Nguyen and 
crossed the ball to a wide-open 
Maura Corrigan, who beat We­
ber for a 1-0 CMU lead.
Nguyen, Caster, junior Chris­
tina Isaly, and freshman Marla 
Spontak did a fine job on defense, 
but things just didn’t go the Tar­
tans’ way.
In the 31st minute, CWRU for­
ward Sandra Oh broke in on a 
two-on-one with Zgoda, and 
dished the ball to the other for­
ward at the last minute.
Zgoda beat Caster off the 
I’tfeel they did today, and they dribble, then beat Weber for a 2- 
]t, either. We have a lot more 0 CWRU lead, 
entthanwe -----------------------------------------------
More football action
Reid Hecker/Tartan Photographer 
nrsha/ lrtrsThPr Fhsrers n.csr «hFFhsVT csl «rs «M/Ras o/hsV laws •cT.hsVRas <« bc/as »rrs,
Reid Hecker/Tartan Photographer
H.r Hc/Rcs lrtrsTr TRMttT c •cT.hsVRas CshPr/ThRm /MsshsV cRRreiR lM/hsV ncRM/lcm-T ohV whs,
Volleyball takes one out of three 
matches at CMU Invitational
lowed to- 
iy.”
Although 
team 
fed well at 
es, espe- 
lly on de­
le, they 
fply could 
mount a 
stained 
[eat. The 
ms were 
jtshot by the 
Wans, 20-
“This could be a 
benchmark for 
our season. I 
always tell them 
to give 100 per­
cent...”
Coach Julie 
Shackford
the few 
S made cost them.
The Spartans 
sealed the game 
in the second 
half on a goal by 
Dina August, 
with Oh and 
Zgoda getting 
the assists, and 
on a fine indi­
vidual effort by 
Nancy Moon, 
who scored the 
fourth and final 
goal. Assists 
came from line- 
mates Tammie
Rupnik and Corrigan.
“I think we’re all disappointed,” 
came out flat,” Shackford senior co-captain Rachel Bourn 
19. “We weren’t mentally pre- said after the game. “We know 
rei, not fit. When you’re not we’re a much better team, but we 
hings break down. [Case didn’t show it. That’s part of be- 
!tern Reserve] is a very good ing a young team. Games like 
I. They’re strong, physical, this build character. It’s going to 
piast. We had a couple of men- come together for us, but as you 
'Pses, communication lapses, can tell, it’s going to take time.” 
The Tartans drop to 1-1 on the 
season after winning their 
homeopener on Wednesday, when 
they defeated Waynesburg Col- 
laves, the Spartans finally lege 6-0. Bourn scored two goals 
'se through in the 12th minute to lead the Tartans. The team is 
Way, when CWRU forward 0-1 in the UAA.
that happens when you’re
ffer CMU freshman goal- 
Per Jill Weber made several
By RAMSEY HONG
Tartan Art Editor
Last Tuesday, the women’s volleyball team went to Waynesburg 
and won three games out of five. Prior to the game the team was 
excited and apprehensive, but overcame its nervousness on the 
court.
Firstgame starters were juniors Wendy Burton, Molly Brennan, 
and Carolyn Skarada, sophmores Patty Bruno and Jennifer 
Goetz, andfreshmanSarahPacocha. Freshman Stephanie Postal 
substituted in for Patty Bruno. Pacocha and Brennan contributed 
with good serving, though it was in vain as the teamlostthe first 
game 15-10.
Starting the second game were senior Jennifer New, Skarada 
and Brennan, Bruno and Goetz, and freshman Evette Rivera, 
with freshman Tara Suntoke substituting for New during the 
game. Their 15-4 loss seemed to awaken them and from this point 
on their game improved.
In the third game they turned it around with a 15-6 win. The 
starters, Skarada, Goetz, Brennan, Bruno, and Pacocha, played 
better defense and Goetz’s serving seemed to confuse the 
Waynesburg players.
They went onto win the fourth (15-12) and fifth games (15-13) 
with better blocking, overall defense, and attacks. Postal contrib­
uted substantially with her careful spikes and serves. In the 
fifth game the team seemed tired, but New uplifted her team­
mates when her serving brought them from behind Waynesburg 
at 13-11 to 13-13.
After the game, Coach Heather Hollands said that “it was a 
real struggle,” but that she “knew they could do it,” and that the 
team hadencountered all the situations they had seen in prac­
tice.
“What made the difference is that we reduced our errors,” she 
said. Skarada said, “We wanted more,” and Brennan remarked 
the reason they didn’t lose was that they “didn’t get down.”
In the Carnegie Mellon University’s 8th Annual Volleyball 
Invitational, the Tartans lost to Geneva College and Point Park 
College but won against St. Mary’s College of Maryland.
New’s hitting was exceptional and Pacocha proved her value 
to the team with numerous saves and generally high level of 
play.
Brennan’s consistently good setting was augmented by her 
sharp court-sense.
The Tartans play the University of Pittsburgh-Johnstown 
next at home on September 14 at 7:00 pm and at the River City 
Tournament at Marietta College on September 17 and 18.The 
team then heads to Grove City on September 21 to play Grove 
City College and Baldwin-Wallace College.
1993 Tartan Volleyball Roster
7ANNN BIELKES/OH5’6FREDINA, MN
12MOLLY BRENNANS/OH5’9JRYORK, PA
11PATTY BRUNOOH/MH5’8SOIDAHO FALLS, ID
3WENDY BURTONDS5’3JROAKMONT, PA
4PAULA DUBEOH5*4JRCHARLTON, MA
6JENNIFER GOETZOH5’7SOMAPLEWOOD, NJ
5LORI GREGOROH5’4SOLATROBE, PA
2CAKOLE HAGGERTYOH5'4SOBELMONT, PA
13JENNIFER NEWOH5’6SRJOHNSTOWN, PA
10SARAH PACOCHAS/OH5’6FRMILTON, MA
8STEPHANIE POSTALMH5’10FRPHEONIX, AZ
16EVETTE RIVERAOH5’5FRELPASO, TX
14GINA SCHUYLERMH/OH5’9FRSYRACUSE, NY
15CAROLYN SKARADAMH/OH510JRPHILADELPHIA, PA
9TARA SUNTOKEOH5’6FRCLINTON, CT
HEAD COACH: HEATHER HOLLANDS 
MANAGER: JOHN BORGER 
TRAINER: CAROLINE DAY
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photographer 
9Msha/ UaFFm «/rsscs Tr/PrT cVchsTR DrsrPc,

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 1993NFL says bye-bye to bye weeks
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
Well, they were fun while they 
lasted, but next year they will be 
gone. 1993 is thelastyear ofbyes. 
The NFL is ready to sign its net­
work contracts and the word is 
that next year they will play six­
teen weeks straight through. 
Good. One bye week is helpful to 
each team and its coaches, but 
two is overkill. Every team in the 
NFL has both of its bye weeks 
before the beginning of Decem­
ber. How does this help? A week 
off for a potential playoff team in 
December would help the team 
down the stretch, so why not give 
each team a week off in Decem­
ber? No, the NFL puts all the bye 
weeks in October and November.
Mostteams have a stretch of only
3 games in 5 weeks in October or 
November. How does this help a 
team?
Let’s face it. Humans are crea­
tures of habit. A football team 
plays on Sunday, analyzes their 
performance on Monday and then 
starts to practice for their next 
opponent. Early in the season, 
football players just want to play. 
An extra week off in October is 
not going to help them at all.
I’m glad the bye week is gone. 
Next year week 15 will mean that 
each team is ready to play its 
15 th game instead of just its 13th 
or 14th. Next year, football play­
ers will have to focus for 16 
straight weeks and earn some of 
their money by being durable. 
It’s good to know this is the last 
year of the bye.
After one week of predictions, 
my record is a meager 2—3. That’s 
a batting average of .400 (2 for 5), 
which is OK for John Olerud but 
not quite good enough for me. 
Week one didn’t have many sur­
prises, but the handful of upsets 
were in the category of shocking
upsets. (In two of which I chose 
the favorite to win.)
The Raiders demolished the 
Vikings in L.A, 24-7. This is the 
biggest upset of week one. The 
Raiders hardly ever look good at 
the beginning of the season, but 
this time they did. However, 
based on the difficulty of the AFC 
West, I still don’t see the Raiders 
doing too much in 1993. Sorry, 
Raiders fans, but I’m going to 
label this one a fluke.
In the dome, the Saints de­
stroyed the Oilers, 33-21. Unlike 
the Raiders, the Oilers are al­
most always tough early in the 
season. However, WarrenMoon’s 
performance was not very im­
pressive. In fact, the Oilers might 
be better off with Cody Carlson 
as quarterback. Fortheir pathetic 
performance, the Oilers get the 
“Bosworth Award.” Anyone who 
remembers the over-hyped Brian 
Bosworth’s performance in the 
NFL as a linebacker with the 
Seattle Seahawks knows what 
I’m talking about. After one im­
pressive win, the Saints have gone 
from a team that can’t win in the
playoffs to a Super Bowl con­
tender (among certain analysts). 
Well, don’t think you’re going to 
hear that kind of talk here, not 
with the 49ers in the same divi­
sion.
And in Three Rivers Stadium
— well, OK, so Steve Young 
showed up and beat the Steelers 
24-13. But before we bury the 
“Stillers,” let’s put this game in 
perspective. Compared to the Vi­
kings, Oilers, and Cowboys, the 
Steelers did pretty well on open­
ing day. Three interceptions off 
of Young, the league MVP (sore 
thumb or not) is something to 
smile about. Also, Neil O’Donnell 
seemed to give the rest of the 
offense confidence when he took 
over at quarterback in the second 
half. As for the 49ers, I said ear­
lier that they need a reliable de­
fense to win more than their divi­
sion in ’93. Well, they certainly 
seemed to have a pretty reliable 
defense last week. They did an 
especially goodjob on defense and 
keeping running back Barry Fos­
ter under 100 yards.
Where’s former Cowboy s defen­
sive coordinator Dave Wann- 
stedt? No one listened when I 
warned that things could be dif­
ferent without the man who now 
coaches the Chicago Bears. With 
or without Emmitt Smith, you 
can’t win a Super Bowl when you 
give up 35 points. I expected a 
closer game, but it was clear that 
the Cowboys were not ready for 
the regular season. Troy Aikman 
and Derrick Lassie were the only 
bright spots. The question is not 
whether the Cowboys will re­
cover, but how long it will take. 
“America’s Team” is beginning to 
realize that everyone will be gun- 
ningfor them in ’93. The Redskins 
get the “Team of the Week” award. 
They were better prepared than 
any Boy Scout ever was.
Top Five Picks for 
Week 3
1. Denver at Kansas City
Joe Montana opens up at home 
on Monday Night Football. After 
giving up over 300 yards in pass­
ing to the Jets, the Broncos must 
try to stop this legendary quar­
terback. Montana always looks
good on national TV, so give tS 
one to the Chiefs in a close oii 
27-21.
2. Dallas at Phoenix
This could be a matchup of
0-2 teams. Phoenix will be 
home, but Dallas will pull tj 
one out 20-10.
3. Washington at Philadf 
phia
Washington looked go, 
against the Cowboys, but tl 
Eagles are still a competifi 
team. Plan on seeing plenty, 
offense, Philadelphia 35-28.
4. Houston at San Diegc
The Oilers may be 0-2 goj
into this one. However, the Chai 
ers are not the team everyoi 
thinks they are, so expect 
Oilers to win this one: 23-14,
5. Cleveland at Raiders
By beating the Vikings, tl
Raiders have beaten their 
tough opponent in the first thn 
weeks. The Raiders will hand 
the Browns. Go with the Silvi 
and Black, 24-17.
John Weber is a junior cii 
engineering major.
Last-minute trades 
enhance teams’ chances
Baseball with Andy
by Andy Glendinning
During the week of September 1, 
teams were countingthe shopping days 
’til the playoffs. The biggest trade of 
the week had to be the Yankees’ acqui­
sition of stopper Lee Smith from the 
Cards. Smith holds the career record 
for most saves at 398 and leads the 
National League with 43 this season.
TheCardinalsreceivedminor-league 
pitcher Richard Batchelor in the trade. 
Now, you’re probably saying to your­
self, “Who’s Richard Batchelor?" I know
I am. I guess St. LouiB was just tired of 
having an almoBt unbeatable stopper 
in their lineup and wanted to build 
another from scratch.
New York’s pitching has lately been 
in something of a slump, if you can call 
anything that keeps them sitting on 
the Blue Jays’ back at the head of the 
AL East a slump. Smith could be just 
the thing that the Yanks need to put 
them over the edge and finally grab 
the lead from Toronto.
The trade seems to have at least 
inspired Jim Abbott, who threw a no­
hitter against the Indians two weeks 
ago. The Yankees defeated Cleveland 
4-0. Even though it is kind of cheap to 
no-hit such a bad team — my apolo­
gies to any fanB Cleveland might still 
have, even though the Indians haven’t 
even been able to buy tickets to a 
playoff game since well before I was 
bom — a no-hitter is after all a no­
hitter and deserves some credit.
Houston’s Daryl Kile, apparently in­
spired by Abbott, tossed a no-no of his 
own less than a week later.
Also in the trading market, Dodg­
ers outfielder Eric Davis went to the 
Tigers for a player to be named later. 
Detroit could be thinking that acquir­
ing Davis will help the team’s Bhot at 
the playoffs; I’m not. I just can’t see 
the Tigers pulling themselves seven 
or so games up in the next few weeks.
I do, however, find it rather inter­
esting that this trade comes so soon 
after the little explosives incident 
outsideofDodger Stadium when Vince 
Coleman allegedly tossed an M-100 
from a vehicle driven by Davis—just 
something to think about.
The Dodgers’ outfield is having a 
hard time of it recently. Not only did 
L.A. lose Davis, but Darryl Straw­
berry was arrested Saturday on 
charges of spousal abuse. Strawberry 
is suspected of hitting the woman 
that he lives with during a rather 
intense domestic dispute. The woman 
was treated for an inch-long cut over 
one of her eyes. The transition from 
hitting home runs to hitting women 
will probably not help his career all 
that much.
Well, now I get to give my little 
blurb about the Orioles because they’re 
my favorite team and because it’s my 
column. The O’s are looking nowhere 
near as bad as they did for most of 
August. As of Sunday, they were in 
third place, but in the thick of the 
race. If they keep this up, they’ll make 
the playoffs easily. I didn’t say that I 
thought it was going to happen; it 
would just be amazing if, after play­
ing a rather mediocre season, they 
were to pull it out in the last few 
weeks. Hey! Don’t laugh, itcould hap­
pen!
Andy Glendinning is a sophomore 
CIT major.
New Atlantic Division looks like 
Patrick Division, minus Penguins
Women’s tennis struggles 
against Division III foes
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon women’s tennis team took on three NCAA Division II 
opponents this week and came away 0-3. The Tartans fell 7-2 to Grove City 
College on Thursday, 9-0 to California of Pennsylvania on Saturday, and 8-1 to 
West Liberty State on Sunday.
Their season record now stands at 2-4.
“The team is getting ready for its upcoming Division III matches,” coach Peter 
Moss said. The squad will face Geneva College on Tuesday, Gannon University on 
Saturday, and Penn State-Behrend and the University of Rochester in a tri-meet 
on Sunday.
Against Grove City, number two singles player Kinga Czerska, a junior, picked 
up a 6-1, 6-0 win over Julie Gumer, and the doubles team of senior co-captain 
Sharyn Rotunno and junior Stephanie Kukura defeated the team of Susan Burg 
and Jane Gantz, 7—5, 6-2.
The Tartans fell to a California (Pa.) State team that has posted a record of 36- 
1 over the past two seasons, winning the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference 
title one year and finishing second the next.
Against West Liberty, sophomore Namita Amin picked up the lone singles win, 
triumphing over Michelle Phillips, 7-6 (7-1), 6-4.
The scheduled men’s match against West Liberty was postponed until the spring 
season due to West Liberty’s inability to field an eligible team under NCAA rules.
The Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdius
The teams in the new Atlantic Divi­
sion of the National Hockey League 
should profit from realignment. The 
Pittsburgh Penguins have been moved 
out of the former Patrick division and 
two expansion franchises have been 
moved in. Here’s a preview of each team, 
in the order they should finish, from 
first to worst.
New York Islanders 
The Isles’ strength is in their youth. 
Now that Pittsburgh is no longer in the 
same division, the Islanders possess the 
strongest offensive player in their divi­
sion: Pierre Turgeon. Turgeon will likely 
improve on his career-best scoring to­
tals (58 goals, 74 assists, 132 points) 
that he racked up last season. The team 
is very strong on defense.
Last season the Isles took a major 
gamble by starting three rookie 
defensemen and it paid off. Darius 
Kasparaitis, Vladimir Malakhov and 
Scott Lachance are all strong defensive 
players with better-than-average offen­
sive skills.
The biggest off-season improvement 
the Islanders made was in goal. Veteran 
goalie Ron Hextall was acquired from 
the QuebecNordiques. Provided Hextall 
stays healthy and off suspension for the 
senseless violent acts that have become 
his dubious trademark, he should be the 
dominant goaltender in the division. 
Unfortunately, the Isles have already 
lost one of their key players to a possible 
career-ending injury.
Right wing Brian Mullen suffered a 
minor stroke over the summer. Doctors 
have detected a small hole in the wall of 
his heart. Corrective open heart surgery 
was scheduled for this weekend. If his 
recovery goes well, Mullen could return 
to the ice for the 1994-95 season.
New Jersey Devils 
The most significant change in the 
Devils is the team’B new head coach, 
Jacques Lemaire, who left a front office 
position with Montreal to join the team. 
While the Devils do not have a superstar 
“marquee” player like Turgeon of the 
Islanders, they do possess depth on the 
bench that few teams have. The team’s 
wide talent base should be good enough 
to keep them at the top of the division.
The Devils have been plagued the past 
few seasons by the lack of a high-scoring 
center. This problem seems like it will 
take care of itself this season.
David Emma, a member of the 1992 
U.S. Olympic Team and the 1991 Hobey 
Baker Award winner as the top college 
player, should be able to fill the shoes of 
the two-way center that New Jersey has
been lacking since Kirk Muller was 
traded to Montreal. Alexander Semak 
provides a strong scoring punch from 
center as well.
New Jersey has perhaps the top defen­
sive unit in the division and one of the 
tops in the league.
Devils’ defensemen include team cap­
tain Scott Stevens, Slava Fetisov, Scott 
Niedermayer,KenDaneyko, andTommy 
Albelin. Right wing is the team’s stron­
gest position. Claude Lemieux, Stephane 
Richer, and JohnMacLean are all proven 
40-goal scorers. The Devils will be a 
force to reckon with.
Philadelphia Flyers
The Flyers are definitely an up-and- 
coming team. Their hopes for the future 
are centered around potential superstar 
Eric Lindros. Lindros scored 41 goals in 
just 61 games during last season. He 
plays on a line with ex Penguin Mark 
Recchi and Brent Fedyk. These three 
have the potential to be one of the most 
offensively dangerous units in the divi­
sion.
Goaltender is a questionable position 
for the Flyers due to the relative inexpe­
rience of the players who man it. Third- 
year player Dominic Roussel and sopho­
more Tommy Söderström are the team’s 
netminders. Söderström will probably 
get the starting job. He posted a 20-17-
6 record last season with a 3.42 goals 
against average. Consistency will be the 
name of the game for this young player.
The rest of Philadelphia’s defensive 
corps is relatively solid. Terry Carkner 
and Garry Galley are anchors back on 
the blue line. Depth could be a problem 
for the Flyers, although they have many 
other skilled forwards including Kevin 
Dineen and Rod Brind’Amour. If inju­
ries plague the team, then the Flyers 
might fly apart.
New York Rangers
Last season proved how little depth 
this team has, and this lack of depth will 
prevent them from finishing better than 
fourth in the division.
If the Rangers can stay healthy, they 
could be a contender, but that remains 
to be seen.
Star defenseman Brian Leetch returns 
this season after recovering from a se­
ries of injuries: nerve damage in one 
shoulder and a broken ankle. The nerve 
damage is most worrying to the team. It 
is unknown if Leetch can return to his 
former glory. If Leetch is not in the 
lineup, the Rangers are pathetically 
weak on defense.
The only other defensive standout is 
James Patrick. The other Ranger 
blueliners are either past their prime 
(Kevin Lowe, Jeff Bukeboom) or simply 
mediocre (Jay Wells, Sergei Zubov). Mike 
Richter is an excellent goaltender, but 
can’t carry the team by himself.
Superstar center Mark Messier also 
needs to stay in the lineup if the Rangers 
expect to win. Many of the Rangers’ 
other key players (Esa Tikkanen, Jan 
Erixon, Darren Turcotte, and Ed Olczyk) 
also tend to be injury-prone.
The Rangers had three or more key
players out at any given time duel 
injury last season. If the same happs 
this year, the Rangers could once aga: 
be out of the playoffs.
Washington Capitals
The first quarter of the season will) 
absolutely critical for the Caps. Tl 
team’s best all-around player and ca; 
tain Dale Hunter will remain on t! 
sidelines for 21 games, serving a su 
pension for an illegal hit during t! 
playoffs last spring that seriously. 
jured the Islanders’ Pierre Turgeon.
The loss of Hunter’s leadership shou! 
be more damaging to the team than tt 
loss of his skills.
The Caps’ scoring punch comes from 
multi-ended attack from Dimil 
Khristich, Peter Bondra, and defens 
men Kevin Hatcher, Sylvain Cote, ai 
A1 Iafrate. Iafrate has finally develop; 
into one of the dominant defensemen; 
the NHL after several above-averag 
to-mediocre seasons. He is one of the 
not the absolute) fastest skaters in i 
league. He also possesses a 100-pli 
mile-per-hour slapshot. Iafrate has w 
the hardest shot contest the past fei 
years at the annual All-Star Game.
Without Iafrate and Hatcher drivit 
the play from inside their own defensiv 
zone, the offense relies too heavily t 
Kristich and Bondra. Both these playei 
are highly skilled and are talented scffi 
ers, but they lack the muscle to bla 
past enemy defenders.
Don Beaupre is the Caps’ starter 
goal. His past few seasons have bet 
good, but he has been plagued by incci 
sistency in the past. Beaupre is adequali 
but probably isn’t good enough to can 
the Capitals very far.
Tampa Bay Lightning 
Florida Panthers 
Rounding out the division are tl 
second year Lightning and the bran 
new Panthers. Of these two teams, tfc 
Lightning will probably do better.
The one bright star for the Lightnit 
is center Brian Bradley. Expansion hi 
been good to him. Last year was hi 
career season; he scored 42 goals andli 
the team in scoring.
Other than Bradley, the only otli 
promising players are center Rob DiMai 
and defenseman Joe Reekie. The LigN 
ning are still two, maybe three ye# 
away from contention.
The Florida Panthers picked up a fe 
quality players during the expansi1 
draft, including Brian Skrudland, T* 
Fitzgerald, Joe Cirella, and Gor 
Murphy.
The Panther’s hopes and dreams - 
with rookie center Rob Niedermayi 
Rob is the younger brother of the Dew 
Scott Niedermayer and is considered1 
be the top offensive prospect beliit 
Alexandre Daigle, the Ottawa SenaW 
first pick during this year’s entry draf
That’s it for the Atlantic Division. Nfi 
week: the Northeast Division.
Allan Bourdius is a fifth Year Seni> 
majoring in Applied History and Ind'J 
trial Management.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 199311
cEachern trade will cost the Penguins in the future
When the Pittsburgh Penguins traded up-and- 
¦oniing center Shawn McEachem to the Los Ange­
rs Kings for defenseman Marty McSorley two 
|?eeks ago, Penguin sources quotedinnews reports 
5aid the deal reaffirmed the Penguins’ commit- 
uent to winning. However, dealing a rising star 
ike McEachem for an aging player like McSorley 
i not the way a team should commit to winning. 
Gaining a veteran player who fills the team’s 
jggest hole is the key to bringing a third Stanley 
>p to the Civic Arena, right? Maybe, but trading 
routh for veterans never pays off down the road, 
isk the New York Yankees, who have traded 
>aseball players like Fred McGriff, Doug Drabek, 
;y Buhner, and Bob Tewksbury for names like
Out of Left Field
By Eric Strauss
Dale Murray, Rick Rhoden, Ken Phelps, and Steve 
Trout.
Admittedly, McSorley solves the Penguins’ big­
gest problem, alack of quality defensemen. Former 
head coach Scotty Bowman played Larry Murphy 
and Ulf Samuelsson until they dropped during the 
playoffs. After the two of them, the quality in the 
Pens’ defense drops off significantly, to the aging 
Kjell Samuelsson, the inconsistent Paul Stanton, 
the mediocre Grant Jennings andPeterTaglianetti, 
and the raw Jim Paek. Getting veteran Mike 
Ramsey down the stretch last year helped some, as 
did moving left wing Jeff Daniels to defense, but 
neither is the long-term answer. Rookies Marc 
Hussey and Travis Thiessen are not ready yet, so 
another defenseman was a priority this offseason.
However, the Penguins are not as deep up front 
as most people would believe, and that is going to 
make the front office rethink this deal later. Sure, 
they have Mario Lemieux, and Kevin Stevens, but 
both are coming off severe injuries — Lemieux has 
already announced he will miss the pre-season 
recovering from back surgery — and may not be 
100 percent to start the year. Jaromir Jagr is 
talented, but maddeningly inconsistent, though 
Ron Francis, Joe Mullen, and Rick Tocchet are
veterans who should keep up their fine play. Be­
yond that, the cupboard gets thin.
The team added Swedish wing Markus Naslund, 
their first round draft choice in 1992, signing him 
to a big contract, but he had best make more of an 
impact than teammate Martin Straka, the team’s 
1991 first-rounder, did last year. Bryan Trottier, 
the center whose comeback apparently made 
McEachem expendable, is 37 years old, and has 
already retired once.
Plugger Troy Loney was lost to the Mighty Ducks 
of Anaheim in the expansion draft, defensive cen­
ter Dave Tippett left as a free agent, and journey­
men Mike Stapleton and Mike Needham are noth­
ing to write home about.
That’s where the McEachem deal is going to 
hurt. The young forward will immediately step in 
as the number two center in Los Angeles, replacing 
the traded Corey Millen on a line with Mike 
Donnelley and Tony Granato. He played all 84 
games last season, tallying 28 goals and 33 assists, 
as well as a +21 rating.
The 1992 Olympian is a blindingly fast skater 
with a hard shot, and a knack for making the big 
play. He has the potential to be a star, if not a 
superstar, and joins a team that came up just short
in its quest for the Stanley Cup last season. At 
worst, the Penguins could have tried to convert 
him to defenseman, amove that workedforDaniels, 
and made him into a Phil Housley-type “offensive 
defenseman.”
McSorley, meanwhile, is 30 years old and has a 
huge $10 million contract, thanks to the St. Louis 
Blues, who signed him to a big offer sheet the Kings 
matched. He had a career year last season, posting 
15 goals and 26 assists, not to mention 399 penalty 
minutes, in 81 games as Wayne Gretzky’s body­
guard. He immediately becomes the Pens’ enforcer, 
and brings experience to the blue-line corps.
However, a 30-year-old with a five-year contract 
is simply not the way the Penguins should be 
rebuilding. Even though McEachem, fast and tal­
ented, was just another Penguins forward, some of 
those players, particularly Mullen and Tocchet, 
who are now over 30, will not be around forever, 
and Lemieux, with his bad back, could go down any 
minute. When that happens, maybenotnow, but in 
the future, the Penguins will know they traded the 
wrong player.
Eric Strauss, Tartan assistant sports editor, is a 
sophomore creative writing major.
Tartan cross country teams take second 
)lace in California (Pa.) Invitational meet
IM News
By ERIC STRAUSS
Wan Assistant Sports Editor
6 LUBOMIR W. KOCHANSKYJ
vartan Sports Editor
¦On Saturday, the men’s and women’s 
ross-country teams participated in the 
ialifomia University of Pennsylvania 
nvitational. The men placed second with 
A points behind Slippery Rock Univer- 
dty, who scored 27. 
leading the Tartans 
yere senior Jim 
ianger, who finished 
hird with a time of 
¡8:27. Sophomore 
fatt Beam finished 
ight behind him in 
ourth at 28:32.
Coach Gary
ileckley had some _______________
lositive things to say 
ibout the team’s per- 
iirmance.
“They ran well for a young team,” 
eckley said. “The team times were 
letter than our previous meet, but it is
oo early to know what kind of team they 
mil be. Iknowthey’re good competitors. 
Kf'e have the makings of a good team. 
¡We’ll be respectable this year. We have 
a couple of guys not running right now
due to injuries and such, and when they 
get back we’ll be very respectable.”
Although Meckley had no official re­
sults, he said four other runners—fresh­
men Josh Reynolds, Ron Polcawich, and 
Paul Hatala, and sophomore Mike Rea 
•— finished in the top 20 in the meet.
On the women’s side, sophomore Missy 
Baustert led the Tartans to a second 
place finish. Slippery Rock was first with
NEED A MAJOR 
CREDIT CARD?
Bad Credit? No Credit?
Up to $5,000 
For A Free Consultation Call:
1-800-825-8598 
Seven Days a Week
CALL NOW !!
“...It's too early to know what kind of 
team they will be... We have the mak­
ings of a good team. We'll be respect­
able this year.”
Men's coach Gary Meckley
22 points, followed by 67 from CMU. 
Rounding out the competitors were Cali­
fornia University of PA with 85, Clarion 
University of PA with 98, St. Vincent’s 
College with 108, University of Pitts- 
burgh-Johnstown with 172, and Carlow 
College with 201 points.
Baustert finished second with a time 
of20:07. Freshman Becky Buchheit fin-
¡HiplS
ished eighth, completing the course in 
21:12. The second group of runners fin­
ished 18th through 20th. Freshman 
Sharon Lay was 18th, freshman Megan 
Day was 19th, and senior co-captain 
Cynthia Kolanowski was 20th.
“I was very happy with the way my 
second group of runners did,” head coach 
Dario Donatelli said. “My first runners, 
Missy and Becky, ran very well. They 
ran the race exactly 
the way we planned, 
and finished better 
than I thought. As for 
the second group, they 
closed the gap on [the 
first group], and that 
was definitely what I 
was looking for. I had 
a third group of run-
________________ ners close behind
them, and it was good 
to see such a tight 
group of runners.”
Donatelli said this weekend’s perfor­
mance was an improvement over last 
year’s showing. “I was happy with our 
places because last year when we ran, 
Slippery Rock was there and had many 
more girls in front of our front girl, and 
only one beat Missy this year, and only 
four beat Becky.”
SPORTS IN SEASON 
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3886 
Intermediate: Pat Leach, x2-2550 
Minors: Jim Saxon, x2-3874 
Women Only: Tricia Williams, x2-5873 
Entry forms were due on September 2, 
and games began Tuesday. Equipment 
willbeonthe fields, and supervisors will 
be in contact with security.
TENNIS
Commissioner: Matt Charlesworth, 
X2-2876
Matches will be played on the newly 
resurfaced CMU tennis courts begin­
ning on Tuesday. Matches will be played 
at 6:30, 7:30, 8:30, 9:30 and 10:30 pm. 
This year 37 teams entered the various 
tennis leagues.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner: Tricia Williams, x2- 
2609
Rosters were due on Thursday, and 
games will begin on Monday. All teams 
must have three men and three women 
on the court at all times, and if the ball
is hit more than once on a side, a woman 
must play the ball before it crosses the 
net. Schedules are available in the IM 
office.
GOLF
Commissioner: Marc Mileto, x2-3911
The 1993 IM Golf tournament, “The 
E. J. Birdy Open,” will be played on the 
Schenley Park golf course at a date and 
time to be announced. Teams must have 
a minimum of four golfers. The cost will 
be $5 to rent clubs and $7 for green fees.
SPORTS COMING UP
CROSS COUNTRY 
WATER POLO 
CHESS
The entry forms for these sports are 
due on Thursday by 4:30 pm in the IM 
office. The cross country meet date will 
be announced at a later date.
BUSINESS
The next intramural board meeting 
will be held on Wednesday at 11:30 am 
in the IM office.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS
'rSPORTSisìooking for dedicated writers and reporters.
For more information, 
call Lou at 268-2111.
classified
Ur eo/T
T Sale: Men's 27" "Saint Tropez" 10- 
>eed bicycle for $75. 521-6734. 
eon beer signs for sale. New and old, 
ccellent shape, $75 and up. Call 422- ji66.
htt Gran Tour: 12-sp; Chromo frame; 
iimano 600; bar-end shifters; 
ickburn rack; Avocet saddle; Araya 
ns; 5165 — OBO. Call 268-3628
aUtenPh
iendship/Shadyside. Beautifully 
¡novated 1 BR apartments, new 
(fchen, new bath, dishwasher, and 
irking gas fireplace. $495. E. S. 
anagement. 795-5845.
Iart of Shadyside. Large renovated 2 
apartment. All amenities. Excellent 
nation. $795+. Very Large 3 BR 
¡dudes heat). Fabulous very large 2 
. Great location! $695 (includes heat) 
pase call E. S. Management. 795-5845.
lVely three bedroom house, parking, 
wished basement office, equip, 
chen, ideal for students (may share) 
faculty, $750/mo 621-5909.
North Oakland, large beautifully 
renovated 4 BR on N. Craig St. All eat-in 
kitchen, bath, window security, new 
appliances. Laundry in building. Walk to 
CMU. $1100+. Call E. S. Management. 
795-5845.
THEA
he deadline for submission of classified 
dvertisements to The Tartan is 5 pm 
he Thursday before publication.
Agents — No Experience. Company 
expanding — $12-18 hr. + bonuses.
Send SASE for details to: International,
1375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
Drivers wanted for expanding business. 
Earn $7-12/hr. Inquire within — Pizza 
Outlet Oakland, 687-9555.
FRATS! SORORITIES! STUDENT 
GROUPS! Raise as Much as You Want in 
One Week. $100...$600...$1500! Market 
applications for the hottest credit card 
ever— New GM Mastercard. Users earn 
BIG DISCOUNTS on GM cars! Qualify for 
free t-shirt and '94 GMC jimmy. Call 1- 
800-950-1039, ext 75.
GREEKS! CLUBS! Student Groups! Raise 
as Much as You Want in One Week!
$100 ... $600 ... $1500. Market 
Applications for Citibank Visa, MCI,
Sears, Amoco, etc. Call for your free t- 
shirt and to qualify for free trip to MTV 
Spring Break '94. Call 800-932-0528, ext 
65.
Math tutor for algebra 1, elementary 
functions, and pre-calc. 1 or 2 evenings 
per week. Walking distance to CMU. 
681-2562.
TRAVEL FREE! Sell quality vacations to 
the hottest destinations! Jamaica, 
Cancún, Bahamas, South Padre Island, 
Florida. Work for the most reliable spring 
break company. We have the easiest 
way. Call Sun Splash Tours today! 1- 
800-426-7710.
EEdioPiTF
WANTED: Ghost stories. Student doing 
a research project. If you've seen, heard, 
or know of a ghost in Allegheny County, 
even if it's a "they say" story, I want to 
know about it. Phone 363-0591 or email 
bt25.
eTrmnpTe
Poetry Workbench. Read your poetry/ 
stories to your peers. Free appreciation/ 
help/interaction. In order to read, just 
bring 10 copies. Mondays 7:30 pm, GSIA 
240. Show up or contact Tom Morton. 
268-2306. ___________
Attention Readers:
Before responding to advertisements requesting money, 
you may wish to investigate the company. The Tartan 
cannot assume responsibility for the validity of such 
advertisements. For more information regarding the 
investigation of companies. TTie Tanan suggests readers 
contact the Better Business Bureau.
FOR $ALE
LaserWriter IINTX 
108,000 pages printed
$1,000
For more information, 
call 268-2111 or email tartan+@andrew.cmu.eduTHETARTAN
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Campus Residents Enjoy:
• No Sign-Up Fees
• Individual Bills
• Low Rates
• International Dialing
It's all part of the i plan.
Call 800-445-6063 for more info. — AT&T
AKT. With You Every Step of the Way.

---------------------------------------------------

'
lÄSÄi..^i!íHírsíí
ü
VICE PRESIDENT 
FOR BUSINESS 
¥ÎCE PRESIÛEIW AFFAIRS AND 
FOR UNIVERSITY
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
VICE PRESIDENT 
VICE PRESIDENT FOR
FOR UNIVERSITY
ENROLLMENT RELATIONSPROVOST
UEERING
1UD6ET
Provost tops totemMehrabian speaksTrustees aid campus
rungconsists of the president and 
vice president to whom the pro­
vost reports. For now we’ll con­
sider the provost the top of the 
academic hierarchy. It’s interest­
ing to note that the provost is not 
a part of the non-academic ad­
ministration; Christiano still 
teaches in and is considered a 
part of the Civil Engineering 
Department. “[I] try to keep that 
identity and behave as a faculty 
member as much as possible, even 
though [I] don’t have as much 
time to act as a faculty member,” 
Christiano says.
Christiano plays an important 
role within the academic hierar­
chy; he not only tops the symbolic 
totem pole, but he is the liaison 
between the academic and non- 
academic divisions. Being at the 
top of the totem pole means he 
continuously meets with the 
deans of each college to discuss 
budgets and monetary allocations 
to individual departments. 
Christiano also has the final say 
on faculty promotions and hir­
ing; he bases these decisions on 
recommendations of the faculty, 
department heads, and that par­
ticular college’s dean. This is 
fairly straightforward adminis­
trative work. Christiano’s respon­
sibilities as a liaison involve more 
issues pertaining to the univer­
sity as a whole, such as physical 
Please see PROVOST, page 12
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
which deal with such issues as 
the budget, development, invest­
ment, and property and facili­
ties.
After these ten, there is a slew 
of other committees called Advi­
sory Boards. These consist oflO- 
15 members, two or three of whom 
are usually Trustees and three or 
four alumni. The balance is pro­
vided by people with expertise 
which will assist in that particu­
lar Advisory Board’s mission. 
There are Advisory Boards for 
every academic and several non- 
academic areas.
These committees exist to help 
the departments they represent. 
They help by insuring that their 
departments conduct self-evalu­
ations, helping to solve interde­
partmental problems, advising on 
strategy, and serving to help the 
faculty and students in their 
charge to “contribute to the gov­
ernance of the University.” They 
also provide the students and fac­
ulty with the chance to come into 
contact with experts from out­
side the university.
The internal structure of the 
Board of Trustees is headed by 
the Officers. The Chair (currently 
Thomas McConomy, president of 
the Calgon Carbon Corporation) 
must be joined by the Vice-Chair 
of the Board, the President of the 
University, the Chief Financial 
Please see TRUSTEES, page L3
By JENNIFER BARE3N
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
By BUCK NEEL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
P ; Paul Christiano is the provost 
. ofCamegieMellon.Butmoststu- 
dents would not have any ideaI
t a provost is or does, not to 
tion how one affects the 
ol’s administration, 
even Lee, a senior mechani- 
sngineermg major, vaguely 
ained that the provost “con-
i student-university relations 
policies.” Freshman civil en- 
ering major Lyren Brown, 
, “I know that he’s just under 
president, but ...” Well, he 
rt have a clue. A provost is 
chief academic officer of the 
inistration and plays a key 
in the Carnegie Mellon bu- 
icracy.
ae must be familiar with the 
archial divisions at CMU to 
erstand the provost’s role, 
re are two major divisions, 
lemic and non-academic. The 
-academic division centers 
r-jnd the administration and 
all of the behind-the-scenes as­
pects that we as students very 
rarely see, much less play a role 
m. Students constitute the aca­
demic division — the foundation 
: of the hierarchical ladder. The 
: pext rung includes the faculty 
, and staff, the department heads, 
the seven college deans, and, 
above all, the provost. The third
Dr. Robert Mehrabian has been president of Carnegie Mellon 
University for three years. During that time, , he has probably 
learned more about how this school functions than anyone else 
on campus. Hailing from the University of California at Santa 
Barbara where he served as Dean of Engineering, Mehrabian 
serves on the boards of directors of PPG Industries and Duquesne 
Light (DQE). He is an internationally recognized materials 
scientist and served in the U.S. Department of Commerce from 
1979 to 1983 as Chief of Metallurgy.
Mehrabian views Carnegie Mellon as a big family of faculty 
and students, “working together on focused initiatives toward 
improvement.” Carnegie Mellon spends one million dollars a 
day, including weekends, insuring quality of teaching and re­
search, student safety, and contribution to the community. To 
keep a heavy focus on education, experts sit on advisory boards 
in every department. They examine the programs by talking to 
students, and in turn, make recommendations to President 
Mehrabian.
The president speaks of three main goals for Carnegie Mellon. 
First and foremost, he wants to improve the whole undergradu­
ate program. Mehrabian says of the program, “It’s already 
outstanding, but I want it to be superb.” The second concentra­
tion area is on physical infrastructure. Buildings and fields are 
continuously made or improved to create opportunity for the 
students. Though making new athletic fields isn’t a academic 
project, it enhances the students’ college experience.
Thirdly, Mehrabian works hard on increasingthe endowment. 
In other words, the president raises money for CMlTs internal 
funds which include scholarships and-professorships. Since 
Carnegie Mellon is one of the top two schools in dealing with 
industry, we receive considerable amounts of money from busi­
nesses. Many places choose to invest in CMU because of the 
quality students it produces. A business such as Intel will be 
likely to invest in our program, since some of its top engineers are
Please see PRESIDENT, page 12
The operation of a university is 
a business. In our case, judging 
from the price of tuition, it’s a big 
business and, as in any business, 
decisions must be made about 
money, strategies for improve­
ment, and company policies. Here 
at Carnegie Mellon, the adminis­
trative hierarchy assigns these 
functions and many more to the 
Board of Trustees.
In keeping with the American 
tradition of dull and lengthy de­
scriptions of the structure and 
responsibilities ofimportantcom- 
mittees, the University has a set 
of Articles of Incorporation for 
the Board that reads slightly less 
vibrantly than 'Webster’s Un­
abridged Dictionary. TheArticles 
set limits on the number of Board 
members, promotion within the 
Board, appointment and duties 
of officers, and other such neces­
sary information.
The Board ofTrustees is a group 
ranging from 30 to 66 men and 
women, headed by the Chair of 
the Board, who are there to help 
the university. They control “the 
business, property, and affairs of 
the Corporation (university),” ac­
cording to the Articles. To better 
perform the basic duties, the 
Chair appoints Board members 
to ten Standing Committees,
Exploring CMU's Administration
Ramwy Hong/ Tartan Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 1993
Columnist plans tell-all book
sR /-S'* '«¿ja®
Neurotic Living
cC oy()lk ew)bMHl
' Doyourememberwhenwewere 
young, stranded on that desert 
island with nothing more than 
our own wits and cunning to sur­
vive? Remember how we built 
that shelter out of fallen palm 
fronds, mud, and stones? It wasn’t 
much, but it was home. Every 
morning we would rise with the 
sun and go out and gather our 
daily provisions. Do you remem­
ber?
You do? Really? Wow, your life 
was certainly more exciting than 
mine. I am begining to realize 
that my childhood, and maybe up 
until last week, consisted mainly 
of jokes about bodily functions. 
As a matter of fact, had I been
stranded on some desert island, I 
wouldn’t have been such a pur­
veyor offine bodily function jokes.
The problem is, this leaves me 
with very little material to write 
a smashing best-seller that nets 
millions of dollars, thus enabling 
me to pursue the kind of life in 
which I’d like to get accustomed 
to. I mean sure, everybody likes a 
good bodily funtion joke now and 
then, but whole chapters of them 
would be a bit too much.
I’m not bitter about it, but I 
think my parents might of lent a 
hand by stranding me some­
where, even if not on a desert 
island, or, they could have been 
extremely cruel to me. But no, I 
wasn’t that fortunate.
People aren’t going to buy a 
book that reveals such details as 
— “And then my mother, angry 
because I tracked mud into her 
kitchen, made me clean it up... by 
myselfY See what I mean, it 
doesn’t reach out and say, “Buy 
me!”
Before Michael Jackson became 
a white woman with a succesful
singing carreer, his father treated 
him poorly and now he can buy 
the bones of famous deformed 
people. I can’t even afford gas for 
my car. All I am lacking is that 
stunning childhood that becomes 
a quality best-seller like, Mommie 
Dearest. Maybe if I took moments 
of my childhood and exagerated 
them, I could find that right mo­
ment that would be perfect for 
my number one selling book.
There was the time in third 
grade, while in one of my hyper­
active frenzies, that I hit Amy 
Bartlett because she beat me to 
be first in line after recess. The 
violence aspect is perfect for a 
tell-all book, but just because she 
beat me in a race isn’t really a 
good reason. Maybe if I just 
changed the facts a little. I had 
Amy Bartlett “hit” by these Ma­
fia goons for beating me out on 
this coke deal. See I only had to 
change a few minor facts to make 
that into something marketable.
I could tell about the time my 
friend Charlie Gruber and I de­
cided it would be a good thing to
completely undress and dance 
around the neighbor’s tree. Once 
again, it starts towards some­
thing that would sell because we 
were naked. However, it loses its 
umph when nothing except danc- 
inghappens. Ifwe then proceeded 
to have sex with five steward­
esses — or with each other for 
that matter ¦— then people would 
be buying the book in truckloads.
I just don’t think that people 
are going to believe me. My ac­
tual record might even be clean 
enough that I might be able to 
make it on to the Supreme Court. 
Which, of course, brings me to my 
next get rich idea. Become a law­
yer and write lawyer suspense 
books that all get made into hit 
movies.
Then again, maybe I’ll sit 
around by the computer and write 
down every thought I have and 
call it a column.
Andrew Sproule, TartanForum 
editor and junior professional 
writing major, is tired of Mike 
Neighberg begging for publicity.
Paper, not books, confuse students
Askew, No Shoes
cC .,RRflk .lBByl)
Reading through a textbook of mine, one 
evening, I became aware that I was, quite 
strangely, having difficulty staying focused 
on the material in front of me. My mind 
drifted, weaving in and out in a honey bee 
dance whose destinatioh I could not infer. It 
appeared that by simply following the pa­
rade of obfuscating words before me I could 
be transported into another realm of percep­
tion (within which the actual topic of the 
reading was inconsequential).
Knowing full well that no textbook would 
be either so expensive or carried in the 
official CMU bookstore if it were the least bit 
dull I deduced that there must be more going 
on here than was apparent.
This time I will spare you the run-around 
I received from administrators trying to cover 
up the story and move straight to the infor­
mation provided by my sources. Unfortu­
nately I cannot disclose their names; due to 
the secrecy surrounding the issue they all 
wished to remain anonymous. I can tell you, 
however, that they were all participating in 
the Psychology Departments research into 
compulsive lying.
It is alleged that certain administrators 
received a proposal from a discount supplier 
known as “Paper Cuts” promising great sav­
ings in expenditures if CMU bought text­
books with their parchment instead of typi­
cal non-yellowing, acid-free paper. The re­
port was purportedly several hundred pages 
long and printed on the company’s own bond. 
The official who read the report was quoted 
as saying, “Zowie! The colors!” before he 
passed out. Caring little about anything 
other than monetary issues, CMU quickly 
formed a contract with the company for its 
eggshell, acid paper.
Obviously it is this small amount of for­
eign chemical, not the subject matter, which 
is causing so many students to become dis­
tracted during their readings. Although there 
is no good way to remedy the situation fol­
lowing the guidelines below should help:
1. Try to avoid contact with the actual 
pages. Keep your hands behind your back 
while reading and turn pages with a paper 
clip, gloves, high-powered fan, or other suit­
able device.
2. Attempt to divide up your study time so 
that you need only read a few pages at a 
sitting.
3. Do not allow your textbook to get wet.
4. Always read in a well-ventilated area.
5. DO NOT LICK.
6. Some courses (e.g. Philosophy) may not 
conflict with the paper while other courses 
(e.g. Calculus) may.
7. Smoking the text is not recommended.
8. If all else fails, there is one last resort. 
Bathing your textbook in a strong bleach
should remove all offending particles (most 
notably the ink). The textbook should then 
give you no further troubles.
To add to the confusion, several students 
have reportedly received grants to further 
study the educational value of this paper. It 
has been refered to as the “Scratch-n-Sniff’ of 
the next century. Research is being done spe­
cifically in 3-D illustrations, psychedelic text, 
and hallucinatory teachers who could help 
students with problems. The dream is that 
someday, acid will line the pages of all major 
works — a sort of invisible braille adding 
meaning to works without and distorting mean­
ing in those with. (It is even rumored that 
advertisers are anxious for exploration into 
the possibility of subliminal messages being 
imbedded in paper.) Who knows, tie-dye text 
may one day be more popular than television. 
(“Well you say you want better resolution, well 
y’know... you should free your mind instead”)
Other sources claim that these developments 
are rapidly leaving the theoretical stage (at 
least in the minds of the developers). These 
very planners lay claim to the pink motif of 
Donner Hall’s lobby. “It’s so pretty. Like being 
wrapped up in cotton candy. Can’t you just 
taste it?”
In conclusion, I would like to end by saying 
if you found yourself at all distracted while 
reading this column it really isn’t my fault. 
You see, the paper it was printed on...
Matt is an official diplomat from, and citizen 
of another plane of existence. He apologizes for 
his jet-lag. Mail (mmdm orfuseBox 667) is still 
welcome. This incomplete sentence
Mehrabian shares thoughts
PRESIDENT, from Li
Carnegie Mellon graduates. So 
in helping us, they are helping 
themselves. Mehrabian spends 
many hours talkingto company 
chairman, assuring them that 
CMU is a worthwhile invest­
ment. Money is also obtained 
from foundations, alumni, and 
university friends. Last year, 
45 million in cash was raised 
for the endowment.
Mehrabian spends long
seem dulled or unenthused. On 
thé contrary, he is very excited 
and energetic about Carnegie 
Mellon.
“CMU is very different from 
other universities. It is an 
entrepreneur’s environment. 
There is a lot of interaction be­
tween departments. There are 
no walls.”
The President feels that CMU 
has outstanding engineering 
and fine arts, along with a won-
“It’s very exciting to graduate 
1000 seniors who you know are 
going to change the world.”
— Dr. Robert Mehrabian 
President of Carnegie Mellon
hours to insure that the CMU 
family is functioning efficiently. 
He has to make sure that stu­
dents are getting the best ad­
visement and that all resources 
are allocated properly. It is a 
common occurrence that his 
work day lasts until 9 pm, as he 
often has dinners for 
fundraising in the evening. He 
cannot always travel 18 miles 
to his home at night, and must 
stay overnight nearby.
Despite his arduous task of 
being the President of the uni­
versity, Mehrabian does not
derful Humanities and Social 
Science program. Most schools 
have separate college with sepa­
rate students, whereas Car­
negie Mellon gives you the op­
portunity to explore different 
areas.
“It’s very exciting to gradu­
ate 1000 seniors who you know 
are going to change the world. 
We are on the cutting edge of 
research here. It is a very cre­
ative environment” says 
Mehrabian.
“Everything we do here we 
transfer to the community.”
Beat munchies 
eat free food
By MICKIKOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Staffwriter
It starts during your last class of the day. You hope no one 
will notice, but when that familiar low rumble emanates from 
the general direction of your stomach, it cannot be denied — 
you are hungry. Now normally, this would not pose much of a 
problem, you just go raid the fridge. But wait! You’re at school! 
You have no fridge! Maybe you have a fridge but it’s in your 
apartment off-campus. Maybe you have a fridge in your dorm 
room and it’s empty. Maybe you have parents who considered 
the potential condition of your stomach and bought you a meal 
plan.
By now you’ve noticed that campus food sucks. I personally 
watched in pain while a friend of mine struggled his way 
through a tub of congealed macaroni and cheese and a dry slice 
of bread from Salads Plus. I’m sorry, but this is not what I call 
dinner. At this rate, my friend would have a hard time gaining
There’s plenty around — you’d be 
surprised. You’ve just got to know 
where to look. Department 
barbeques are good, previews are 
good, parties are good. You just 
float in, make out like you belong to 
the group in question, and go to 
town.
that famous Freshman 15. OK, we all know those pounds come 
from beer and nachos, but that isn’t what I call adequate 
nutrition either.
So what’s a poor student to do when those hunger pangs 
strike? Go food-cruising! The first non-academic thing a stu­
dent should learn is how to snarf free food. There’s plenty 
around—you’d be surprised. You’ve just got to know where to 
look. Department barbeques are good, previews are good, 
parties are good. You just float in, make out like you belong to 
the group in question, and go to town.
Better yet, join some of those groups in question! The more 
campus organizations you belong to the better, as far as the 
procurement of free food goes. OK, so your new, improved diet 
might consist solely of finger-foods, but hey, they’re not that 
bad. You can even find all your food groups represented here. 
To wit: the meat group — salami slices and hot dogs; the fruit 
group — melon cubes, strawberries, grapes, etc.; the grain 
group—crackers; the vegetable group—carrot sticks, broccoli 
heads; the cow group — cheese slices and dip; and even the 
pizza group —just follow the delivery person with the pile of 
big square boxes.
By the time you are a senior you will have turned food- 
cruising into an art-form. After all, you will have had lots of 
practice, just in time for that all-important power year, where 
all-nighters are a weekly event, the clusters become your 
homes-away-from-home, and regular meals become a fondly 
remembered thing of your distant past.
Provost’s role defined
PROVOST, from page LI
campus safety and orientation options. He also works on develop­
ing “new educational programs and new research initiatives.” An 
improved design program was introduced this year in the CFA, 
and next year a Bachelor of Humanities and Arts program will be 
started, to name a few of the projects that are rapidly materializ­
ing.
“The most interesting things I and the deans and the faculty talk 
about are new ideas and ideas for education.” Christiano’s purpose 
is to make a “deliberately fuzzy boundary” between the adminis­
tration, faculty, and the students.
Now that we know what the provost does, how does he do it? Paul 
Christiano spends most of his time in meetings coordinating and 
discussing ideas. He meets with groups and individuals to improve 
the efficiency of the university; to check schedules and budgets for 
new building projects (no signs of hope for Skibo yet); or to decide 
on health care and other benefits for faculty and staff, just to name 
three examples of the more than twelve meetings he had in only 
two days. This great number of meetings does not bore Christiano 
because he enjoys the “interaction with a diversity of people and 
ideas and topics.”
Christiano is currently working with the faculty and adminis­
tration developing a new publication on campus that would dis­
cuss factual information about behind-the-scenes administration.
“[I] try to keep that identity and be­
have like a faculty member... even if 
I don’t have as much time to act like 
family member.”
—Paul Christiano, Provost
Some possible topics include publishing budget details, faculty 
promotions and awards, registration information, and new pro­
grams in the works.
This may help to make Paul Christiano and his job more visible 
and understandable from a student’s point of view because he may 
actually achieve the “fuzzy boundary” he so desires by making 
students more aware of the issues surrounding our campus.
Y Music Society
of the Jewish Community Center
1993-94 Recital Series at Carnegie Music Hall
Jessye
Sept. 26 NORMAN soprano
“It’s a voice that simply has no equal in today’s concert or opera world.”
—Chicago Tribune
Christopher Carter
Oct. 20 O'RILEY and BREY piano and cello
“...elegance, refinement, and the highest standards of musicanship.”
—Milwaukee Sentinel
Nov. 17
Mikhail
ISTOMINcello
“There’s nothing to discuss. He’s simply fabulous.”
—Lawrence Foster, music director of the Monte Carlo Philharmonic
Dec. 14
Yefim
BRONFMANpiano
“One of the two or three greatest talents to come along in our time.”
—Jssac Stern
Gil
Feb. 9 SHAHAM violin
“His musical maturity is beyond our comprehension."
—Washington Post
Garrick
March 20 OHLSSON piano
“Few pianists command the extremes of power and gentleness that Mr. 
Ohlsson does.” —New York Times
Paula
April 17 ROBINSON flute
“Her playing is colored by a joy and spontaneity that is 
communicated to everyone around her." —Washington Post
Subscribe now — good seats are still available:
Presntr PeigdELRrLTtg ftom Quu
(No student rates on single tickets)
Telephone orders welcome at no extra charge.
APEE 521-8010

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 1993L3
Program 
installed
By BETHANY SUTTON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Late last spring, a three- 
year agreement was signed 
between Carnegie Mellon 
University and Moscow State 
University for the Humani­
ties which launched a new 
foreign exchange program be­
tween graduate students and 
faculty in the United States 
and Russia.
The program was est­
ablished to send Moscow pro­
fessors to CMU, or two CMU 
professors to Moscow. Par- 
_ ticipants will have the oppor­
tunity to spend a few months 
exploringthe educational, po­
litical, and cultural frame­
work of society at the Moscow 
university.
Moscow State University 
focuses on humanities and 
management, with a particu­
lar interest in computing. 
With the decline of Cold War 
tensions and the break-up of 
the former Soviet Union, the 
university is, according to 
Peter Stearns, professor of 
history and dean of CMU’s 
College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences, “groping for 
, new kinds of policies appro­
priate to a democratic and 
capitalistic society.”
Sergei Karpienko, profes­
sor of history at the Moscow 
State University, was the first 
participant in the program; 
he taught during the spring 
term last year at CMU. 
Wendy Goldman, professor of 
Russian history, plans to visit 
Moscow in the spring; con­
currently, CMU hopes to re­
ceive a professor of Russian 
literature from Moscow dur­
ing the next fall or spring 
semester.
The program currently con­
sists of a ‘limited student ex­
change,” said Steams; par­
ticipation has so far been con­
fined to graduate students. 
However, he does admit that 
he “would like to see [the pro­
gram] expand” and that par­
ticularly enthused under­
graduate students could pos­
sibly be considered for entry 
into the program. “If there 
"were ^ery interested stu­
dents, we could try to arrange 
it.”
The History Department is 
tremendously enthusiastic: 
they hope to generate enough 
interest by January to send 
students abroad and get the 
program underway.
“It is an exciting period,” 
says Stearns, “ [Moscow State 
University] is eager to have 
the opportunity to teach in 
the United States, if even 
briefly.” CMU gains “the ben­
efit of quite prominent Rus­
sian scholars at a reasonable 
price.”
Con Ureoro
#1 Contact Lens Supplier to Students
1*800 *998 «LENS Ext«
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUM 
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Student Affairs hires new people
By TONYA RADO
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Student Affairs employees con­
stantly try to meet the needs of 
students; their goal is to reach 
out and help as many students as 
possible. Allison Riley and Kevin 
Hughes are both new assistants 
to the dean of Student Affairs.
Since July 6, they have been 
working on many projects to en­
hance campus and community 
life. One of the projects that Riley 
is working on is the Take 30 Pro­
gram; it offers students ways to 
enhance their personal skill de­
velopment.
This project uses canned pro­
grams to make a connection be­
tween an organization and work- 
shops that focus on student 
awareness issues.
Riley is responsible for sched­
uling dates and appointments to 
present these canned programs- 
to various organizations. “I’m al­
ways looking for new ways to 
meet the needs of students,” she 
said, “to improve personal skill 
development.”
In addi- -----------------------------
tion, Riley 
has many 
other 
responsibili­
ties de­
signed to 
aid stu­
dents. She 
assists in 
the emer­
gency stu­
dent loans ___________________
process 
and helps
in the process to choose a student 
who best represents the criteria 
of the Vira Heinz Scholarship. 
All junior and senior women are 
eligible to apply for this stipend 
to study in any foreign country. 
Students must present a proposal 
explaining why they feel study­
ing in a foreign country would be 
beneficial to them.
Riley is also a contact person to 
meet the needs of commuter and
Dickinson College in Carlisle, PA.
As assistant to the dean of Stu­
dent Affairs, Riley’s primary goal 
is to get to know CMU students
-------------------------------------- and to
dis-“It is intriguing to think of different ways to 
go beyond what is already envisioned and to 
think of different ways to expose our minds 
to different philosophies and beliefs."
— Kevin Hughes, 
Assistant to the dean of Student Affairs
cover 
new 
ways 
t o 
meet 
their 
needs. 
She is 
intri- 
g-ued 
by the
transfer students and gays, les­
bians, and bisexuals on campus.
She is a very supportive and 
resourceful person who has 
worked in the field of higher edu­
cation for four years. Before ar­
riving at CMU, she worked at 
Emerson College in Boston and
tense
environment at CMU; the stu­
dents are really focused on what 
they do. There is a constant ex­
change of energy and new ideas 
among students, faculty, and staff 
on campus.
Kevin Hughes is another new 
assistant to the dean of Student 
¦ ¦ ¦
Affairs. He focuses on leadership 
development programs, and is­
sues of prevention, education, and 
treatment of alcohol and drygs 
on campus, such as the National 
Collegiate Alcohol Awareness 
Week.
“Sometimes the development 
is not just a single problem, but 
a symptom of another,” he said. 
Hughes also strives to address 
the needs of students and to help 
them to develop their leadership 
skills.
Hughes particularly finds the 
exchange of a vast array of view­
points and perspective challenges 
of individual thought interesting. 
CMU is incredibly diverse; stu­
dents are exceptionally great at 
what they are doing, he said.
“It is intriguing to think of dif­
ferent ways to go beyond what is 
already envisioned and to think 
of different ways to expose our 
minds to different philosophies 
and beliefs,” he said.
Housing has students deciding
By ZHUOHAN CAI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Think Housing, and the office in Morewood 
Gardens pops to mind. Although the little 
office looks the same as it did last fall, tremen­
dous organizational changes have taken place 
since then. The new Housing Office promises 
to be more student-oiiented, with the same 
commitment to improving the quality of resi­
dence life.
Before last year, the housing office was un­
der the command of a single 
director who oversaw several 
area coordinators. Respon­
sible for student concerns 
within their assigned dormi­
tories, these coordinators 
were troubleshooters.
“Problems that demanded 
immediate attention, like a 
faulty light bulb in someone’s 
room, often distracted them 
from long term programs,” 
says Amy Ginther, assistant 
director of Housing for Op­
erations.
Last year, the office divided ______________
into three departments: Resi- 
dence Life, Operations, and 
Facilities. Residence Life is concerned with 
student welfare, Facilities works with Physi­
cal Plant, and Operations takes care of stu­
dent housing.
Each has specific functions but works inti­
mately with the other two. Division of labor 
allows each department to thoroughly address 
concerns and avoid becoming overextended.
Building community is Residence Life’s main 
goal. Resident assistants (RAs) are trained for 
that purpose. They are expected to organize 
activities that enhance their residents’ lives 
and promote leadership development.
Most importantly, RAs are trained to be 
good listeners. Student feedback is very im­
portant, and RAs act as interpreters for Resi­
dence Life. Says Tim Foster, director of Resi­
dence Life, “In the past, we used to put a 
crystal ball in front of us and imagined what 
the students wanted. Now we’re moving from 
programs directed at students to programs 
organized by students.”
brainstorming students.
Orientation ’93, for example, was a major 
effort by student Orientation counselors. In 
contrast, past Orientations have been de­
signed by a board of staff members.
Another program, Pittsburgh Horizons, 
encourages students to experience the sights 
and sounds of the city. Students decide where 
to go, and Residence Life provides the funds 
to subsidize the costs. Places of interest have 
included the Pittsburgh Zoo and the Carnegie 
Music Hall.
“In the past, we used to put a crystal ball 
in front of us and imagined what the stu­
dents wanted. Now we're moving from pro­
grams directed at students to programs 
organized by students. ”
— Tim Foster, 
director of Residence Life
Residence Life procures the necessary re­
sources to make student proposals happen. 
Other original programs include those such 
as the Last Lecture series. A faculty member 
is aked, ‘If you were to give your last lecture 
of your life, what would it be?’
Another is Gathering Storr, a roundtable 
forum for faculty and students. A storr is a 
flat stone table where Scots people tradi­
tionally met to talk. The participatory na­
ture of these programs compliments 
Housing’s concept of “student ownership.” 
“We want students to feel that they own the 
school,” says Foster.
Operations is in charge of dormitory allo­
cation and the running of service desks on 
campus. The staff makes sure that the dor­
mitory is comfortable to each student. Room­
mate allocation is an­
other important job.
formation sheets and Myers-Briggs ques­
tionnaires to match each freshman with a 
roommate.
Like Residence Life, Operations is equally 
concerned about student involvement and is 
encouraging students to voice their opin­
ions. For example, a student advisory com­
mittee helped with this year’s room reserva­
tion process. The student judiciary commit­
tee works closely with Operations on disci­
plinary matters.
“The magnitude of the transition is huge,” 
says Tim Foster about the 
changes. Foster himself is 
new to Residence Life; there 
are four new area coordi­
nators; Kimberly Di- 
Donato, Steven Lesterson, 
Karen Lipton, and Cameo 
Ullrich. Ginther, who origi­
nally worked in Residence 
Life, is now in Operations. 
However, they are confi­
dent that their enthusiasm 
will make up for what they 
lack in experience. More im­
portantly, each will bring
_______________ expertise from their former
HHHi areas of interest.
“You can walk into a place 
where the system has been there for 50 
years and nobody wants to change it, or you 
can work in a dynamic environment.” Obvi­
ously, Foster has chosen the latter.
Facilities main responsibility is budget­
ing for things such as equipment. Facilities 
wokers are currently planning for the addi­
tions of new volleyball and basketball courts.
How exciting and enriching Residence Life 
will be depends largely on student involve­
ment. Simply lamenting about the lack of 
community on campus is not enough.
“Students should stand up and say, ‘Hey, 
this is what we want to do,’ and I’ll make 
sure that it gets done,” says Foster. It is this 
kind of spontaneity and student initiative 
that make Housing programs a success.
Board aids 
students
TRUSTEES, from page LI
Officer, the Secretary, and 
the Assistant Secretary. In 
addition, there may be an 
Honorary Chair and other 
Officers and Assistant Offic­
ers as are deemed necessary 
by the Board of Trustees.
The members of the board 
must first serve as Term 
Trustees. They can do this 
for two consecutive three- 
year terms and then must 
either wait 12 months before' 
being re-elected or being el­
evated to life status.
The Life Members, once 
they reach age 65, may ask 
to be given Emeritus Trustee 
status, which entitles them 
to function as they did but 
with neither the obligation 
of attendance or a vote. At 
age 75, Emeritus status must 
be taken.
The Trustees receive no 
monetary reward for their 
actions. Trustees come from"' 
all walks of life and all areas 
of the country.
They are people from all 
areas of academia, from 
presidents of major corpora­
tions to Sophie Masloff, the 
mayor of Pittsburgh.
Their function is one of 
great importance to us, 
though we may be ignorant 
of the work they do.
Their service and dedica­
tion enhances both the qual­
ity of our experiences here - 
and the reputation of 
Carnegie Mellon across the 
nation and around the world.
Over this summer, 
Housing staff pains- 
Several new programs under the auspices of takingly examined 
Residence Life are run almost entirely by countless personal in-
BAGELS
ar bakery and restaurant.
Bigger, Better Bagels... 
...Naturally!
• Full Sandwich Menu
* Homemade Soups, Spreads & Salads
3615ForbesAve.,Oakland
682-2558
Mon-Fri,7am-7pm,Sot7:30ani-4pm:Sun8om-')pm
$ Bring this ad in and receive w |
4 BAGELS for a BUCK! |
expires 0/30IQ4 CMC
Multiculturalism, new technologies, and 
globalization are transforming American 
business. A degree in management gives you 
access to the careers that are leading this 
transformation.
A diverse 
work force 
needs diverse 
management.
Destination MBA
Seminar:
Saturday, September 18
9am - 12 noon
Followed by Workshops & 
Seminars, 1pm-3pm 
Westin William Penn
530 William Penn Place
Pittsburgh
Pre-Seminar Student Reception:
Friday, September 17
5pm - 7pm
Mervis Hall Atrium
University of Pittsburgh
Destination MBA is a free seminar designed 
especially for people from groups that are 
underrepresented in the profession of 
business administration. The three-hour 
event will introduce you to management 
careers and the MBA degree.
Come and find out how you can join the 
dynamic profession of management at a time 
when the oppotunities for African American, 
Latino, and Native American managers have* 
never been more promising.
Admission to Destination MBA is free. 
Registration begins at 8:30am.
For further information and program specif- . 
ics, call 1.800.446.0807 or 1.412.497.6781
Hosted by the Joseph M. Katz 
Graduate School of Business

---------------------------------------------------

f m'ieoT'ccmm"om \ 
VE NT RS CA,S &R, WLK3& 0 
I mm wipe wwse. //
“a-
mz rt inmmmymm ML tome mm pmm ßi
7 m... 
Hits MY R-2WT N13 &aiivoße/s
MY GOD GEORGE! We’ve reached the end ____worfdl!____
¦ - tt,,THE COMICS.
What’s a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg^r> -I T . ! i ! "N '/'T1 „-.II./S/Darn it, X j<-'S+' donV
¦tliink computers like 
. ii
't be sillv'. 'Koojost 
don't oniersfand kovj 
To ose compofecs- /
th-------------------------"
Meek, stereo systems «w be
CoMpjtcrs/ "rv,e/'<^ easy la
[e<vo; &»i to ose,
Crossword
By Jeffe Boats
ACROSS
I. Legends 
6. Concocted 
8. Work log
10. Football blocking 
assignment
II. Inferno fiddler?
13. Computer in 2001
14. Dallas roundballer
15. Obi Wan's name
16. Ingenue
18. L in L.A.
19. Mesozoic, e.g.
20. Belch sound
21. A college degree
22. Duran Duran song
23. Three-toed sloths
24. Gaffe
26. Performance, e.g.
27. Xylem
29. Gospel
30. Masted vessels
34. Drain uncloggers
35. European petrol
companies
DOWN
1. Low-browed person
2. Street
3. Judo
4. Fire remnant
5. Witnessed
6. Call on phone
7. Estimate worth
8. Carries
9. Copyright symbols
10. Hypotheses 
12. Dental
15. Haze
17. Sheep bleats
25. Studied
26. Zeros
28. Confusion
29. SE Asia country
31. Musical notes
32. Again (French)
33. Plastic ____ Band
Last week's answers
Doonesbury 
by G.B. 
Trudeau is 
not here 
this week.
Why?
Why ask why?
- The evasive Art Editor
roop. va vmp AI V0L TH&tei IT/ 
MKsmiPies eUtLAnvR 'iE! for "msumtfo i rWFrnw mms J /#jIL y I of ftivmc/i
______ _ ,, ^ . .. stmm nJFARMERS tóOò, f cmxescmeMn — - > mavcmwY...
we PA/LY 
NeW5P/)P£K.
rssyyomD eeTtcsppolfhn sdytgpppn
Ci/r uio r mesr. %SMOOtH/TH-AT.com rr Mm am. 
morieio eveKYBOpy. 
BURY THEM TH£Nexrm. 
STA/rroveR.
WA yes, terme
rf/Z. NWSTAPmCKMK.
meine mms 
To TV AWeKT/Sttib.
AMP,
\ CARTOONISTS
fA?

---------------------------------------------------

LET GO OF ME. 1A B\G 
GALOOT.' WN OOHT VQO PI« ON SOMEBODY W OWN SIZE ?¦'
I GUES5 THAT HAS \ A CERTAW 0NE1HICAL ) LOGIC TO \T... V
vnvg c­wptbly LIKE BEltAG A,. G»Ytt\-UP? J ttBBtocK
WELL. ITS HOT \ TOO mPFEREUT...EXCEPT YOU'RE MORE A MTNCUEO TO MOVJR TONS. J
89 /V\A't+' 
Sf we1N fJ i
CARING FORLh/OAIBAT 5
Fac+ ^'T-i Keep Worn ba^S
BV MiCKI KOCHANSKVJ
.ACROSILeO ?naJ
DECAFFEINATED COFFEE
by Frank

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDE
By GARY LARSON
At the Insurance Agents Wax Museum“I dunno, Andy.... Mom said we were never to go near 
the old Sutter place.”
Vegetarian towns of the Old West“You were hit last night by some cult, Mr. Gilbert. 
... Not the sickest cult I’ve ever seen, 
but a cult nonetheless.”
Suddenly, throwing the festivities into utter 
confusion, Ujang begins to play “Stardust.”

---------------------------------------------------

)
SAHOHSvaíiiroaa
pjBsg pe»! ¿q ;|qpy JO 3jniB3JJ
¦LUdLß JOJ. LJDJBdS
oi >/D!p die au d 
e pdJlH dAtd/i/i
¦>/ddM 
silfi 6UISSILJU SI
JdpuexdiY uoQ é 
Egosu :Mj:t ­. 
wwsvg Fsg6Fg8+:i¡qseAeqo)| @I jaixaa
¡/(3IX3ÚIS V S139 
ANNna 33111)1 ">i33M SIHii m __________ ?ni il 11 i a I \IAAUung Jd||i)|

---------------------------------------------------

The Psychology behind
the Citibank Classic Visa card, and theemotional security of the Photocard. The Citibank Classic Visa'
Subject suffering from 
Civilit CanI Theft Nervosa.
Subject a fter receiving Citibank 
Classic Visa Pltotocanl.
instills in students feelings of safety, security, and general wellness not unlike those experienced 
in the womb. Therefore, it is the mother of all credit cards. <][ Some experts attribute these feelings 
to the Citibank Photocard, the only credit card with your photo on it. A voice inside says, “This 
is me. really me." (As opposed to, “Who the heck is that?”—a common response to the photo
on one’s driver’s license.) It’s an immediate form of 
ID, a boost to your self-image, f Of course if your card is 
ever lost or stolen and a stranger is prevented from using it, 
you’ll feel exceptionally good (showing no signs of Credit 
Card Theft Nervosa). 1 Other experts point to specific 
services, such as The Lost Wallet"" Service that can replace 
your card usually within 24 hours. Or the 24-Hour Cus­
tomer Service line, your hotline, if you will, for any card- 
related anxiety whatsoever, f Further analysis reveals three 
services that protect the purchases you make on the Citibank 
Classic Visa card, at no additional cost. 1. Buyers Security'"can cover them against accidental 
damage, lire or theft, for 90 days from the date of purchase1 (preventing, of course, Insecurity). 
2. Citibank Lifetime Warranty'“’allows one to extend the warranty for the expected service 
life of eligible products up to 12 years.2 3. And Citibank Price Protection assures you of the best 
price. You need only see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank 
will refund the difference up to $150' (hence no Post Purchase Depression), f Special student 
savings are particularly therapeutic.There’s the free Citibank Calling Service'”from MCI to save 
up to 26% on long distance calls versus AT&T.1 (You’re encouraged to call Mom and Dad regu­
larly preventing Parenta Non-Supportus.) And a $20 Airfare Discount4 on any domestic flight. 
(Case studies indicate that a Fear of Flying is overcome when Spring Break in sunny Florida is a 
possibility.) Not to mention the low variable interest rate of 15.4%5 and no annual fee for college 
students, ‘jl Suffice it to say, you’ll have a credit card you can depend on while building a credit 
history. So call 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19, to apply over the phone (students don’t 
need a job or a cosigner) or to have your photo added 
to your Citibank Classic Visa card. ‘¡I If we say that a 
sense of Identity is the first component of the Citibank 
Classic Visa card, a sense of Security the second, and 
a sense of Autonomous Will from your newfound
financial independence the third, don’t be crazy...Call. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.
CITIBANK
CLASSIC
’¡¡CyuiA '~W'&lk£A
4126
4-128 0012 3H>Sb 18S0
VALID FROM CXBRÄTION OATS
06/93 65/31/91 CV iS,
LINDA mKER V2R
‘Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International 
UK Limited. -'Certain restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at 
least (he minimum based on retail industry data. Details of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. 3Savings claim is 
based on a 10-minute night/weekend call in the 1.911 to 3,000 mileage band using MCI's Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T's standard calling card rates, effective 
4/93. Citibank Calling Service long distance usage cannot be applied to obtain benefits under any other MCI partner program or offer, including travel award programs. 
4Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is SI00. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. 5The Annual Percentage 
Rate for purchases is 15.4% as of S/93 and may vary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is 19.8%-. If a finance charge is imposed, the 
minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional finance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% of the amount of each cash advance transaction; however, 
it will not be less than S2.00 or greater than SI0.00. Monarch® Notes are published by Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications 
Company. Used by permission of the publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. ©1993 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC.
The Monarch” Notes Version:
The Citibank Classic card gives| 
students peace of mind, protection 
against Freud—or rather fraud—a 
low rate and no fee. Apply today. 
Call 1-800-CITIBANK, ext. 19

---------------------------------------------------

P
lartan Junior Staffuiriter
¡¡With art going in so many hysterical 
Sections these days, it’s nice to visit an 
exhibit where they deal only with nice, 
normal pizza slicers. Out of the Ordi­
nary: Good Designs for $20 or Less, an 
exhibit running through October 1 in 
fe Hewlett Gallery, is one of these 
simple, down-to-earth displays.
The exhibit deals with household ob­
jects from over 20 countries that have 
been chosen by a group of designers and 
irators for their usefulness, innova- 
jfi, aesthetic qualities and their cost. 
Each item had to cost less than $20 to be 
chosen for the exhibit. Among the as­
sortment of paint scrapers and CD cases, 
one is able to find brightly colored aque­
ous duckies, art-deco graters, and fluo- 
Lfecent earphones. If one were to look 
hard enough, there is even a “friendly” 
¡mousetrap in decorator colors.
The majority of the objects displayed 
are unique in their alien qualities. There 
forks of a uniform width encased in 
and bulbous correction ink pens
thatlookasif they are about to explode 
at the bulge in their centers. The ob­
jects are fluid and natural looking, and 
more often than not, extremely useful. 
In a far comer, there is a double-headed 
toothbrush that allows the user to clean 
both the front and back of his or her 
teeth in one fell swoop. And near this 
dental marvel is a magnetic soap dish. 
A metal disk is inserted into the soap, 
and a magnetized appendage holds the 
cake in the air for later use.
Out of the Ordinary is art for the 
masses, as the masses are using most 
of these exhibits every day. The arti­
facts displayed show an increasing 
trend towards simplicity in everyday 
products and a unified, fluid form in 
commercial design.
The objects are colorful and interest­
ing,yeteasy to use and almost fun. Out 
of the Ordinary is truly out of the 
ordinary in two senses of the phrase. It 
is an unusual and eclectic mix of tools 
that follow a modem and simple de­
sign and is a collection of objects 
straight out of the ordinary — the 
ordinary world.
All Photos: Kerry Hagan/Tartan Photographer 
From corkscrews to desk accesorles, the current exhibit at 
the Hewlett Gallery, Out of the Ordinary: Good Designs for $20 
or Less has got something for everyone.
til*
OUT OF THE ORDINARY
Knightfall thread has 'realistic’ end
day morning cartoon. It was great 
to see him portrayed as a worthy 
enemy of Batman rather than a 
sack of straw. Also, the subplot 
involving Anarky made the story 
even more interesting. The best 
scene of all three issues is page 20 Comic Book Chronicles of #18 with Anarky and Batman 
by Jason Andracki turned into whimpering piles of
Hi! Welcome back to Comic 
Book Chronicles. This week, I’ve 
u^cided to talk about Knightfall 
andKnightquest. Sorry I’ve talked 
a lot about DC comics so far. I 
promise next week I’ll do some­
thing on another company. Hey, 
feel free to write and tell me what 
JVd want to read about. Now onto 
Batman.
As many of you know, “The God 
of Fear” storyline concluded this 
week in Shadow of the Bat, end­
ing the Knightfall crossovers.
jelly. One question though, when 
did Scarecrow spray them with 
Fear gas?
Now, let’s continue onto the 
actual conclusion of Knightfall,
Batman #500 which sported a 
foil-embossed, double cover with 
two postcards enclosed for the 
meager price of $3.95! Actually, 
this gimmick issue was better 
than usual. The two postcards,
“Classic Batman” by Jim Aparo 
and “The New Batman” by Mike 
Manley, were a novel idea. The 
cover by Joe Quesada (Sword of Comics #667 hit the
stands the following
superb was that even though it 
was 56 pages, it didn’t drag on. 
The fight scenes between Batman 
and Bane were drawn excellently 
rather than pages of panels of 
overdrawn battles. This had just 
enough action to keep the issue 
moving. The end was very fitting 
with Robin telling Jean Paul that 
he IS the Batman and him an­
swering “Thanks kid” and flying 
off into the dark night. Also, the 
return of Bane is insured since 
Batman sends him off to 
Blackgate Prison (I think Arkham 
Asylum would have been a better 
choice) rather than 
killing him. With that 
ending, I was wonder­
ing what was going to 
happen next.
I did not wonder 
long since Detective
See what Garth Brooks has done? 
Also, the cliffhanger ending was 
pretty cheesy. Will Batman crash 
into the subway train?
Wow, the tension is just killing 
me. Maybe I was just expecting 
too much after Batman #500.
I’m now eagerly awaiting 
Knightquest — The Search, be­
cause I hear it deals more with 
Bruce and Alfred rather than 
Jean Paul.
Knightfall is definitely worthy 
of comparison to The Death of 
Superman and its sequels. I per­
sonally liked Death better, be­
cause it was much more emo­
tional, but Knightfall does have 
one advantage: realism. Well, it 
wasn’t that realistic, but at least 
when Bruce returned as Batman, 
it was a lot more realistic than 
Superman coming back from the 
dead.
Jason Andracki is a freshman 
professional writing major, who 
encourages reader response to his 
column.
Send responses to: The Tartan, 
Room 50, do Diversions, Comic 
Book Chronicles.
week, beginning 
Knightquest — The 
Crusade. This issue 
was somewhat of a let­
down just because it 
followed such a great 
issue. There were 
some really bad points 
though, like Tad and 
Tom, the look-alike 
cowboy bank robbers.
Ifeese chapters dealt with The Azrael)was the best of Knightfall 
Scarecrow much the same way as although the scene on the inner 
Two-Face was in Showcase 93 #7 cover with Bane dangling Robin 
and #8. There are few differences by the ankle never actually oc- 
like the Shadow crossover has curred. This issue was also one of 
Jean Paul Valley in the Batman my favorites because of the title,
%>5tume while Showcase was a Dark Angel (Dark Angel was one 
flashback story with Tim Drake of my favorite heavy metal 
(Robin) narrating the tale from groups) Also the chapter titles 
Bruce Wayne’s hospital bed. An- “The Fall” and “The Descent” were 
other difference: “The God of very symbolic of the story.
[Pear” is one of the best chapters Another reason this issue was
T Knightfall, 
land the Two- 
Pace story was 
one of the weak­
est. Now, I’m 
;not saying it 
yas bad. I’m 
just saying it 
wasn’t as good 
as the other is- 
Bues.
Actually,
The God of 
* ear” was one of 
¡tty favorite 
story arcs out of 
the entire cross- 
0ver, because 
fihe Scarecrow 
Las always been 
one of my favor­
ite Bat-villains
since the days of 1 “ © 1993 DC Comics
the Super New Batman (Jean Paul Valley) defeats Bane’s henchmen and now calls out 
Friends Satur- for their boss, Bane.
© 1993 DC Comics
Allen film amusing
Manhattan Murder Mystery
****
Directed by Woody Allen. Starring 
Woody Allen and Diane Keaton. A 
married couple tries to spice up 
their marriage by solving a mur­
der mystery.
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Forum Editor
Do you long for the days of 
old? When a dollar was worth 
a dollar and so on and so forth? 
I actually don’t give that sort 
of thing much thought, but if 
there was one thing I’ve 
missed, itwas the Woody Allen 
of Sleeper and Take the Money 
and Run. Sure, I’ve enjoyed 
his more recent movies, but 
they lacked the mad comedy 
zeal ofthose earlier films. How­
ever, he’s back.
Manhattan Murder Mystery 
is Allen’s return to the irrev­
erent comedy. Not to say that 
he’s left out his study of mod­
em relationships, but it is as 
close to Sleeper as he’s come in 
years — including the return 
of Diane Keaton.
Acouple that have been mar­
ried for many years, played by 
Keaton and Allen, have 
reached a point in their rela­
tionship where everything is 
old and routine. It lacks ex­
citement. Both have different 
likes and dislikes. He loves 
sports, and she loves opera. 
They have to make agreements 
with each other like, she’ll sit 
through an entire hockey game 
if he’ll go to an opera with her. 
Some of Allen’s older schtick 
is recycled in this movie along 
with some newer humour. We
Please soe Mystery, page LAI
A guide to the stars
*** Pretty damn cool.
* Sorta cool.
Maybe worth a matinee.
to DH.
\

---------------------------------------------------

fgH°feTSgEiK-4M5iiRi",H^SMONEY FOR COLLEGE
Every student is eligible for some type of financial 
, aid regardless of grades or parental income.
COMPREHENSIVE DATABASE: Our data base of over 200.000 listings of scholarships and 
grants represent over $10 billion in private sector financial aid.
MANY AWARDS: Scholarships are available to students based on their career plans, family 
heritage and academic interests.
UNIQUE RESEARCH: Our research department has located many scholarships Including awards for newspaper carriers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders and non-smokers.RESULTS GUARANTEED. ___lDI=CALL A MYTHS/IE FOR A FREE BROCHURE
(800) 283-8600-' g|q
Voluom
CHINESE RESTAURANT
Voted
Best Lunch Value 
Fast Lunch
by City Pittsburgh Paper, the BEST of Pittsburgh 1992
Pine in, Carry-Out, and Catering
Oakland 
400 Craig Street
(Near Calhedral of Learning) 
687-7777 
FAX: 681-3333 
Mon-Sun, 11 am-10 pm 
Canyout Parking all Houxs.
Free Paddng after 5 pm andWeekends.
Downtown 
124 Sixth Street
(Near Heinz Hall)
765-2222 
FAX: 681-3333 
Mon-Sun, 11 am - 8 pm 
Parking Garage Available Above Restaurant
i> R i \ c 1p i. !•; s ¡>f sor \ n r k t i r k \\ k \ i i \ \' k s i i x g
2JS—
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START 
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS 
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.
Can’t afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can’t afford not to. 
Not when you realize that your retirement 
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You’ll want 
to live at least as comfortably then as you 
do now. And that takes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take 
advantage of tax-deferral and give your 
money time to compound and grow. 
Consider this: set aside just $100 each 
month beginning at age 30 and you can 
accumulate over $172,109* by the time 
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and 
you'll have to budget $2ig each month 
to reach the same goal.
Even if you’re not counting the years to 
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF 
to help you build the future you deserve— 
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred 
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest­
ment choices, and a record of personal 
service that spans 75 years.
Over a million people in education and 
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of 
their list for retirement planning. Why not 
join them?
Call today and learn how simple it is 
to build a secure tomorrow when you 
have time and TIAA-CREF working on 
your side.
Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1800 842-2888.
75 years of ensuring the future 
for those who shape it T
n interest rate of 7.00% credited to TIAA Retirement Annuitiej. This rate is tueà solely to sbow the poter and effect of compounding. Lover or bu/her rates 
produce very different results. CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services.
$C0TLANP, VO
AN IS-OtAfEP 
A0P/-/N
THE TARTAN: An idea 1000 years in the making. To join, call x8-2111.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 13 September 1993111
I¡i Mill
Thursday, September 16
Psycho
Made in 1960, this notorious and terrifying 
Alfred Hitchcock (North by Northwest, Rear 
Window, Dial M for Murder, The Man Who 
Knew Too Much) film has been an influence in 
many films since, particularly in the genre of 
the modern psychological thriller.
Much better than the three sequels that 
followed it, this film actually has a plot, which 
follows the investigation of the murder of a 
young woman who had been trying to leave 
town after she came across a large amount of 
money.
Ready for a nice unsettling evening of psy­
chotic fun? Go see this film.
Stars Anthony Perkins, Janet Leigh, Vera 
Miles, Patricia Hitchcock, and Frank Abertson.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, September 17
The Outsiders
Ahhh, troubled youth!
Captured pretty well in the S .E. Hinton novel, 
and maybe not as well in this Francis Ford 
Coppola film. In any case, this was the first film 
for a lot of future handsome pretty-boys.
BeforeDirty Dancing, Karate Kid, St. Elmo’s 
Fire, The Flamingo Kid, Top Gun, and Red 
Dawn, there was The Outsiders.
Just in case you might have forgotton, this 
film tells the story of troubled teenagers in ’60s 
Oklahoma, as seen through the eyes of a loner 
who likes to read poetry.
This film was later followed by another 
Coppola-Hinton collaboration, Rumble Fish, 
and more recently the much-forgotton The 
Outsiders TV series on Fox.
Take a walk down cultural memory lane, to 
a day when C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, 
Ralph Macchio, Patrick Swayze, Rob Lowe, 
Emilio Estevez, and Tom Cruise were just “faces 
to watch” on the front cover of Teen, inagazine.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.J
Saturday, September 18
Posse
A recent western film directed by and star­
ring Mario Van Peebles (The Exterminator 2, 
Heartbreak Ridge, Jaws the Revenge, Rappin’), 
This film portrays the lives of African-Ameri­
can cowboys in the Old West.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, September 19
The Haunted Palace
Based primarily on H.P. Lovecraft’s novel, 
The Strange Case of Charles Dexter Ward, this 
1963 Roger Corman film tells the story of a man 
who goes to a small New England town in order 
to reclaim his family castle.
When he gets there, he finds out that the 
castle has been put under an evil spell by one of 
his ancestors, and his town has become popu­
lated by mutants. Before long, the evil spell 
possesses him, too.
Very Edgar Allen Poe-ish.
Stars Vincent Price, Debra Paget, Lon Chaney 
Jr., Frank Maxwell, and Elisha Cook, Jr.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By TINA L. URSO
Allen makes comeback with Mystery
Mystery, from page L9 
still get Allen’s unbeatable one- 
liners such as, when Allen and 
Keaton are leaving the opera, 
Allen says, “[Wagner] gives me 
this uncontrollable urge to in­
vade Poland.” I believe that even 
tops his, “The last time I was 
inside a woman was when I went 
to the Statue of Liberty,” from 
Crimes and Misdemeanors.
The story in Mystery is simple 
enough. They meet another mar­
ried couple that lives down the 
hall from them, and, a few days 
later, the wife from down the hall 
dies of an apparent heart attack. 
Keaton starts suspecting that the 
wife was murdered by the man. 
Allen, of course, is too chicken to 
get involved and scoffs at Keaton 
for bothering. He thinks that she 
is ridiculous because there is ab­
solutely no proof that this man 
killed his wife. Therefore, Keaton 
recruits a family friend, played
by Alan Alda, to help her crack 
this mystery. This leads Allen to 
suspect that there are some ex- 
tra-marital shenanigans going 
on. In other words, Allen incorpo­
rates his usual themes of troubled 
relationships and the jealousy in­
volved, but he’s done it in a mys­
tery.
The plot twists in the story keep 
you thinking until the end. Un­
less you pay very close attention 
at the beginning, there is no way
to figure it out and even then, it is 
still difficult. It’s a clever mys­
tery filled with great gags. The 
one way Allen stayed true to his 
more recent movies was by shoot­
ing the entire film with a hand­
held camera. However, Allen 
managed to lose the amount of 
jerking and bobbing that was 
present in the other films, so that 
kind of roller coaster uneasiness 
that I felt watching the other 
movies was not experienced.
New CD provides unclassifiable sound
Wallflower
*****
New release from My Sister’s Ma­
chine, on Chameleon Records.
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
And now for something com­
pletely different.... My Sister’s 
Machine (MSM)’s sophomore re­
lease Wallflower (following their 
debut album, Diva) is a recording 
that defies placement into any 
musical genre. Although the band 
is from Seattle (who isn’t?) they 
are not a Pearl Jam, Nivana, or 
Alice In Chains rip-off. (Wish I 
could say the same for the Stone 
Temple Pilots.) MSM are not 
grunge. They are not alternative 
because today alternative is syn­
onymous with Top 40. They could 
be considered heavy metal but 
that would imply too much of a 
BeavisandButthead -type of com­
parison. So, I won’t attempt to
place MSM into any category and 
just tell you about the CD.
The opening song, “Inside of 
Me,” kicks off the album with a 
bang. The pounding bassline is 
my favorite part of this tune, and 
the lyrics aren’t too bad either. It 
deals with a relationship-gone- 
bad situation. One line is “Are 
you a prize or a cancer? If the 
shoe fits wear it, give it up and let 
go of me.”
The rest of the lyrics on this 
album are powerful, too. “16 Ways 
To Go” deals with the environ­
ment: “Springtime’s gone for the 
mother, yeah, she can’t breathe.” 
“Enemy,” perhaps the best all- 
around song on the album brings 
up the question, how well do you 
really know your friends? “Even 
though you’re a friend of mine, 
explain to me what it means.... 
Tell me, are you a friend, are you 
my enemy?” Also in the philo­
sophical vein is “Cracking New 
Ground” with, “God please why 
was I born to this world, was it
something I did? Should I do 
something to repent an old sin?”
Sorry that I’ve run on about 
lyrics, but I just love readingthose 
nifty CD booklets. The music is 
definitely not to be overlooked. 
There is a wide variety of sounds 
here, from the brutal pounding of 
“Inside of Me” to the calming 
melodies of “I Slip 
Away” and a com­
bination of both on 
“Empty Room.”
Wallflower has 
something to offer 
everyone, from 
punk and grunge 
fans to Top 40 al­
ternative fans, 
this album has it 
all.
Wallflower is a 
well thought-out 
and musically di­
verse recording.
This is the kind of 
album that could 
and should take a
relatively unknown group like My 
Sister’s Machine into the spot­
light.
A guide to the stars
***** Pretty damn cool.
**** Sorta cool.
* * * Maybe buy it on the Cut.
** Possibly worth dubbing.
* Just plain bad.
1993 Chameleon Records
CINEMA SCOPE
2001: A Space Odyssey
1968 landmark film from Stanley 
Kubrick about man’s coming to 
terms with himself and the uni­
verse. Co-written by Arthur C. 
Clarke. (Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7:30 
pm Sunday)
Batman Returns
Batman is back, trying to save 
Gotham City as he struggles against 
The Penguin and Catwoman. 
(Carnegie Museum ofArtTheatre; 8 
pm Friday)
Boxing Helena
Jennifer Lynch, daughter of the 
better known David Lynch, offers 
slice-and-dice solutions for relation­
ship problems. (Squirrel Hill Cin­
ema World; 5:10, 7:15, 9:20 pm 
daily, / and 3 pm Saturday and 
Sunday)
Days of Heaven
New print of the 1978 Terence 
Malick film about a turn-of-the-cen- 
tury love triangle. Stars Richard Gere, 
Linda Manz, and Sam Shepherd. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7:30and 9:30 
pm Tuesday.)
The Fugitive
Action-packed chase film in the 
spirit of the original TV series. Stars 
Harrison Ford as the wrongly ac­
cused Dr. Richard Kimble. (The 
Manor Theater)
Jurassic Park
Summer blockbuster film from 
director Steven Spielberg. A man 
creates a South American amuse­
ment park by genetically engineer­
ing dinosaurs and isn’t prepared for 
the terrorizing results. Includes life-
like computer animation. (Beehive; leaving jail only to be blackmailed 
9:45 daily and midnight Wednes- back into it by a former partner. (The 
day through Sunday) Manor Theater)
Life of Brian
Monty Python movie about a man 
whose life parallels that of Christ. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30and 9:30 
pm Monday.)
Like Water for Chocolate
Mystical and passionate Mexican 
film about a man who is forbidden 
to marry the woman he loves. He 
marries her sister so he can be close 
to her, and she cooks them magical 
meals. (Beehive; 5:30 pm daily)
Malcolm X
Director Spike Lee’s tribute to 
MalcolmX’s life. Stars Denzel Wash­
ington as Malcolm X. (Pittsburgh 
Playhouse; 7:30 pm Friday)
Manhattan Murder Mystery
New Woody Allen film about an 
aging couple who try to fire up their 
marriage by solving a murder mys­
tery. (Squirrel Hill Cinema World; 
5:20, 7:30, 9:40 pm daily, 1 and 
3:10 pm Friday through Monday)
Man Without a Face
Mel Gibson makes his directorial 
debut with this film set in a Maine 
coastal town in 1968. Twelve-year- 
old Chuck Norstadt (played by Nick 
Stahl) befriends a mysterious older 
man with a scarred face in order to 
escape his self-absorbed parents and 
gain entrance to a military school.
(The Manor Theater)
The Real McCoy
Kim Basinger plays a master cat 
burglar who tries to go straight after
Reservoir Dogs
Violent and grim ganster film 
about a jewel heist gone wrong. 
Directed by Quentin Tarantino. 
[Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7:30and9:30 
pm Wednesday)
Three of Hearts
William Baldwin, Kelly Lynch, and 
Sherilyn Fenn star in this film about 
a gay nurse who falls in love with a 
teacher but who is being pursued 
by a ladies man. (Pittsburgh Play­
house, 7:30and 9:30pm Thursday)
True Romance
Film about a loner who meets the 
girl of his dreams in the local movie 
theater and ends up running from 
both gangsters and police after he 
defends her honor. Stars Christian 
Slater and Patricia Arquette. (Squir­
rel Hill Cinema World; 4:30, 7:25, 
9:50 pm daily, 1:40 Saturday and 
Sunday)
Un Coeur en Hiver (A Heart 
in Winter)
French film about two men whose 
friendship and lives are disrupted 
when they fall in love with a young 
violinist. Directed by Claude Sautet. 
In French with English subtitles. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7 and 9 pm 
daily)
Undercover Blues
Two spies taking time off to raise 
a baby reluctantly agree to go back 
to work early to foil an international 
spy ring. Stars Dennis Quaid and 
Kathleen Turner. (The Manor The­
ater)
The Wedding Banquet
international award-winning com­
edy about a successful gay Taiwan- 
ese-American businessman who 
engages in a marriage of conve­
nience to a young Chinese artist. 
Everything is fine until his parents 
come for the wedding, and are 
decieved about the real intentions 
of the marraige.
In Chinese and English with some 
English subtitles. (Filmmakers at the 
Fulton)
What's Love Got to Do With It
Angela Basset stars in this bio­
graphical film about Tina Turner’s 
rise to stardom. (Pittsburgh Play­
house; 7:30 and 9:30 pm Saturday)
Wide Sargasso Sea
Directed and co-written by Aus­
tralian John Duigan (Flirting), this 
film is an adaptation of the Jean Rhys 
novel about jaded gentry and un­
happy natives in 1844Jamaica. Stars 
Karina Lombard and Nathaniel 
Parker. (Beehive; 7:45 pm daily )
Theatre locations:
Beehive: 3807 Forbes Ave. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton:
101 Sixth St., Downtown 
The Manor: 1729 Murray Ave. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse:
222 Craft Ave.
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave. 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater: 
4400 Forbes Ave.
By TINA L.URSO
© Warner Bros., Inc.
Denzel Washington stars in Spike Lee’s Malcolm X, at The Playhouse.
© 1993 Universal Pictures 
Kim Basinger stars In The Real 
McCoy, playing at The Manor.
Everyone ^edsaPAAL.
__ Stay protected \viih the
PAAL, Quorum’s Personal Attack Alarm 
that blasts 103dB (min.) when you 
simply pull the pin. Choose either the 
standard or sports model. Carry it to 
school, the mall, the park, wherever you 
go. PAAI. lets out a cry for help whenever 
you need it. And only Quorum gives 
you that kind of tech- Quorum' 
nolog)' and security. Securing Ule'
. • • CnnkK< i" nr Quorum Inilepeiulttil Distributor • •
Dennis & Patricia Snyder 
(412) 461-7458

---------------------------------------------------

e8,Io8so3S 
DCrqt uqptCC
ONE WEE« ONÜ
peon i
Admission to DH 2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Ad­
mission to Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Psycho will be shown in DH 2210 on 
Thursday at 6,8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Outsider8 plays in DH 2210 this 
Friday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Posse shows in DH 2210 Saturday at 6, 
8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Haunted Palace will play Sun­
day in DH 2210 at 6, 8, 10 pm, and 
midnight.
Malcolm X shows Friday at 7 pm at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Stop by the Fence today and to­
morrow to vote for the Ugliest Mug 
on Campus (UMOC), register to vote, 
fill out organ donor cards, and more — 
all sponsored by A Phi O.
Come repair, revise, and revitalize 
your foreign language skills at the 
International Language Tables held 
daily in the Graduate Coffeehouse over 
lunch and sponsored by the Modem 
Languages department. Times are as 
follows: Mondays: La Table Française 
from noon—1:30 pm; Tuesdays: Russkii 
Chas from 12:30-1:30 pm; Wednesdays: 
La Mesa Española from 11:30 am-12:30 
pm; Thursdays :Deutscher Stammtisch 
from 11:30 am—12:30 pm; and Fridays: 
Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de from 12:30- 
1:20 pm.
CMU Shorin-Ryu Karate Clubmeets 
Mondays at 8:30 pm and Saturdays at 
4 pm in Activity room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional 
Okinawan Karate. Beginners are wel­
come.
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5-7 pm, 
in addition to office hours.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting 
House. For more information, call Bill 
King at 276-1768.
The Society of Women Engineers 
(SWE) will meet tomorrow at 5 pm in 
DH 1112 to prepare for the Technical 
Opportunités Conference.
The Spanish Cultural Club of Pitts­
burgh will hold its first meeting of the 
season at 7:15 pm on Saturday at 230 S 
Bouquet Street.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds its meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in 
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
Are you concerned about the is­
sues of eating disorders, body 
weight, and self esteem? If so, you 
are welcome to attend a weekly support 
group to discuss these issues and oth­
ers. Meetings will be held Tuesdays in
© 1992 Warner Bros. Inc.
Malcolm X (Denzel Washington) addresses Harlem residents outside the legendary Apollo Theatre in the epic historical drama 
Malcolm X, showing Friday at the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Health Services from 7:30-8:30 pm.
The Fencing Club holds practices in 
the Fencing Room in the Gymnasium 
Tuesday evenings at 6:30 pm and Sun­
day afternoons at 12:30 pm. All levels of 
skill are welcome.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Tuesdays from 8:30-10:30 pm and 
Thursdays from 8-10 pm in Activity 
room B, and Sundays from 2-4 pm in 
Activity room A. For more information 
email cd2b or call x8-4179.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group for those seeking insights into 
who they are, a change of being, and a 
livable philosophy, holds regular meet­
ings on Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathe­
dral of Learning, room 302. For more 
information, call 343-1907.
Student Senate meetings are held 
every Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 
7 pm. All members of the campus com­
munity are welcome to attend and speak 
during audience participation.
The Women’s Center Collective
holds meetings every Thursday at 5:30 
pm in the CMU Women’s Center. If 
your group is interested in meeting in 
the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first 
and third Wednesday the Toastmas­
ters Club sponsors a speech communi­
cation workshop at the Carnegie Li­
brary in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. For 
more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is
held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) at the Cathedral of 
Learning. Free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at683-7770formore 
information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ-
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, callx8-2114.
Women in Science meets Wednes­
days at 4:30 pm in the Women’s Center. 
For more informaton on this newly 
formed group, call the Women’s Center 
at x8-3595.
A Rational Recovery support group 
for those with alcohol or drug problems 
meets every Friday at 7:30 pm. Meet­
ings are free and held in Room 205 of 
the Wightman Community Center 
Building in Squirrel Hill. For informa­
tion on this and other RR meetings in 
the Pittsburgh area, phone 261-5363.
Student Environmental Action 
Coalition meets every Sunday at 4:30 
pm in Grey Matter. SEAC works for a 
better environment. For more informa­
tion, call Josh Knauer at x2-4949.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net­
work is looking for student parents in 
financial need of free childcare and 
students, staff, and faculty interested 
in babysitting. For more information, 
call or write David Pegher at x2-4840, 
Box 1107, or email dp31.
Get ready for a night of crushing 
rock with bands Zeni Geva, Johnboy, 
Shorty, and Don Caballero. This all 
ages show will be held tonight in the 
Graduate Coffeehouse at 7 pm. Tickets 
are $7.
Punk bands Gashuffer, The Cyn­
ics, the Karl Hendricks Trio, and 
Blunderbuss will perform Thursday 
at the William Pitt Student Union As­
sembly Room on Pitt campus. The show 
is $7 and starts at 7 pm.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday night at 9:30 
pm at the Heinz Chapel. For more in­
formation, call 682-6886.
Color Crop, Style and Substance’s 
new autumn exhibit, opens tomorrow 
at the Style and Substance Art Gallery. 
An artists’ reception will be held Thurs­
day from 6:30-8:30 pm. For more infor­
mation, call 834-9299.
Chatham’s environmental art ex­
hibit Groundswell: Art for the Earth, 
opens Friday in the Chatham Art Gal­
lery. For information, call 365-1140.
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz 
Chapel.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House on Friday evenings 
at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm, 
Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 
for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the comer of Fifty 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For' 
more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epig. 
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow 
ship there. They hold services on Sun­
days with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, i 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11:30 am in the chapel lo­
cated on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is alsc 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister 
Brian VanderWel at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside 
College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
Visiting artist Michael Kessler wil:
lecture tomorrow at 5 pm in DH 2315. 
The lecture is free and open to the 
public.
Ancient Celtic Traditions: the Wheel 
of the Year is the title of Wednesday’s 
Celtic Society event. A local astrono­
mer will lead a discussion on Celtic 
traditions and holiday origins. The lec­
ture is free and held in PH A19 at 8 pm.
Join B’nai B’rith Hillel in celebrat­
ing Rosh Hashanah with an Erev 
Rosh Hashanah Dinner at Hillel, lo­
cated at 160 N. Craig St, beginning at 
5:15 pm and followed by a Conservative 
Service in the William Pitt Union Ball­
room at 7 pm. Other Conservative Ser­
vices will be held at 9 am on Thursday 
and Friday, both in the William Pitt 
Union Ballroom. A Reform Service will 
also be held Thursday at 10 am in the 
William Pitt Union Assembly Room.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates Mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39, Monday through 
Friday. Weekend Masses are celebrated 
at 10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in 
the GSIA Cooper Auditorium. Formore 
information, call the Newman Oratory 
Center at 681-3181.
Ecumenical Holy Communion,
sponsored by the Episcopal, Lutheran, 
and United Campus Ministries, is held
The football team plays at the 
versity of Rochester at 1 pm
The women’s soccer team plays Al­
legheny College Wednesday at 7:30 pm 
in Gesling Stadium.
The women’s soccer team competes 
Saturday at the Washington Univer­
sity of Missouri at 3:30 pm.
The men’s soccer team competes 
Saturday at the Washington Univer­
sity of Missouri at 1 pm.
The men’s and women’s cross coun­
try teams compete Saturday at 11 
am in the Indiana University of PA^ 
Invitational.
The women’s volleyball team plays 
the University of Pittsburgh- 
Johnstown on Tuesday. This home 
game starts at 7 pm.
tef«
^P0PÜU
hey you,
thanks for the weekend, it was 
great, i love you. 
me
Koniita wa, Esquilo-chan. Have you 
had enough coffee yet today? 
Sayonara, T2/2
BRUCE LEE LIVES!
MARK,
I have you all figured out 
baby sweet jerk honey darling
$22,000 a year?! Mario is really 
buttraping us for his $500,000 a 
year do nothing job. Thanks.
Hey Nick,
yes, I’m talking to you,
GROW UP!
‘(*A$!!
sweetie, you’re awesome, and yes 
you have to go to formal.
Hey Jenn,
Hope you enjoyed the weekend. Hope 
we can get together again sometime 
so you can distract me on a flat 
escalator.
A former hip Forum Editor
Once, twice, three times a 
pocketwatch!
Hey guys — what time is it?
And they called it Mad Cow disease ...
What time is it?
4:30!
Theta pledges are awesome!
Heh, heh, heh, heh, heh, heh ...
Cool.
Andale andale areba! 
matt,
remember the top ten what's it to 
ya'?
think hard.
Wah.
Where's your sense of humor, John?
They gave me this Air-o-matic thing, 
see, and I just had to try it out.
Phew! What's that smell?
DRYRUSH ...NOT!
300 coats of paint? That's it?
So how does this thing work, anyway? 
Not that button! Aw, shit.
Hey Jordan,
Clues are being sold in the comer anc 
I've got some great real estate in 
Florida if you’re interested.
Couch-licking ... like the Superbowl, 
only dirtier
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: 
The Tartan, Ann. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie 
Mellon U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send 
campus mail to Calendar Editor, The Tartan, 
Skibo Info Desk. You can also drop submis­
sions via AppleShare in the Calendar and Vox 
Populi drop folders on the Tartan’s server, 
Skibo zone. Please limit submissions to fifty 
words or less. Deadline is 8 pm the Wednes­
day before the next issue. Placement is not 
guaranteed. Original Vox Populi and. Calendar 
entries cannot be returned.
