West Virginia Vs. Car­
negie Tech Friday 
At Tech GymnScience Stag Smoker, 
Union, Saturday, 
February 25
VOL. XVI. NO. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEbRUARY 22, 1922
PRIZES TO BE 
GIVEN FOR BEST 
SCHOOL SONGS
Contest Committee Wants 
More Songs Entered. Jury 
to Consist of Members of 
Music Department
CONTEST ENDS MAR. 1
MID-WEST CLUB
AT FORT PITT
SOPH HOP TO BE HELD 
IN SCHENLEY BALL
DURING IDES OF MARCH
The Sophs o£ the four schools are LUNCHEON WED.
making preparations tor the biggest 
event of the Clan. “The Soph Hop,” 
to be held in the Schenley Hotel 
ball room next month. The dance 
is informal. Hughes’ Orchestra to 
play. Preliminary tickets out soon.
Committee: Frank Gore, chair­
man; Miriam Bond, secretary; Earl 
Gross, treasurer; Hank Himes, Helen 
Johnson, Margaret Coombs, Tom 
Greggs and H. M. Ryan.
LETTERS AWARDED 
AT GEN. ASSEMBLY
The song contest is still in the 
hands of the committee, no awards 
as yet having been made. About 
ten songs are at the present time 
before the committee, but more are 
expected. Any student at Tech Is 
eligible, so put that tune with) orig­
inal words, and send it in. The 
committee desires to have as many 
songs submitted as possible, so that 
out of a large number at least three 
or four will be of sufficient quality 
to be accepted.
Prizes will be awarded for the 
best Alma Mater, and for the best 
•.typical Tech songs. Carnegie Tech 
is in great need of some new live 
¦ songs, and surely it behests every 
dutiful son and daughter of the Plaid 
to get busy and develop whatever 
musical talent they might have. 
These songs will be judged by per­
sonnel of the Music Department, and 
is so arranged that no favoritism 
wffll be shown. This contest will 
•close! March 1, and prizes awarded, 
the money to be furnished by the 
Song Book Committee.
These new songs will not take the 
place entirely of our old songs, but 
will supplant those which we al­
ready have. Original words and an 
original tune will be the most de­
sirable, but original words may be 
used with any time. Turn these 
songs into any. of the Song Commit­
tee, wbich is composed of the 
following students: Johnson, chair­
man; Florence Lutz, J. T. Ames and 
T. S. Repplier.
Dr. Baker Will Speak on 
Organization ofJuniorClan. 
AH Mid-West Students 
Urged to Attend
PLEBES—SOPHOMORES
More Men Wanted for Carnegie Tar­
tan Editorial Staff.
WILL BOOST CLANS
Frank J. Lanahan in Charge. 
Alpha Alpha Nu Elec­
tions Announced
An extensive program has been 
arranged, for the members of the 
Mid-Western Association along the 
lines of alumni work. It is planned ! Building, some time before February
Home Builders Hold 
Conference Here
Concrete contractors, cement block 
and other cement product manufac­
turers, together with representatives 
of Portiancj cement companies and 
men from the Portland Cement As­
sociation, met at a Home Builders’ 
Conference held last Thursday and 
Friday in the Industries Assembly 
Room. Prof. Dunnells and Mr. Larkin 
of the building construction depart­
ment co-operated with the conference 
in providing demonstrations of con­
struction in the masonry laboratory, 
and in arranging tests to demonstrate 
compression strength. The confer­
ence was called to give building con­
tractors and cement products manu­
facturers an opportunity to learn and 
discuss new ideas and modern prac- 
¦ tice in- cement construction. Mr. W. 
D. M. Allan and Mr. Dan Collins, both 
of the Portland Cement Association, 
were in charge of the conference.
The topics of discussion were many 
and varied, including proportions of 
concrete mixtures, materials to be 
used in block making, etc., and all 
phases of concrete building construc­
tion, including building plan samples. 
The attendance was large, over a 
hundred men from the industry, from 
all over Western Pennsylvania and 
points within one liundre'd and fifty 
miles came to talk over their prob­
lems, and see the demonstrations 
given here. About fifty of the building 
construction and other Industries stu­
dents also attended as their schedules 
would permit, and obtained much 
practical information. Mr. S. W.
(Continued on Pape Four.)
At the general assembly held last 
Wednesday noon in the Music Hall, 
Mr. Frank J. Lanahan a trustee and 
also member of the Athletic Council 
of Carnegie, conducted the presenta­
tion of letters and sweaters to the 
men of the varsity football and cross 
country teams. Mr. Lanahan highly 
pleased the assembly with his ready 
humor and the hearty manner in 
which he congratulated each of the 
letter men. Those receiving letters 
were, in football, A1 Irwin, this year's 
captain; J. S. Anderson, captain- 
elect; “Cy” Comfort, “Red” Godden, 
Hoble; Henderson, Newman, Potter, 
Rosenblooni,Sprinkle, Brumbaugh, 
Mills, Robertson, Sawyer, Wierman. 
Taylor, Lewis, Zelt and C. A. Blescli, 
student manager. In track the men 
receiving letters were Miller, captain 
and C. I. T. record holder; Greenlaw, 
Kelley, Dykeman, Tubbs and J. F. 
Nation, student manager. Men win­
ning their first or third letter also 
received a sweater. Irwin, Godden 
and Henderson were the three letter 
men.
Mr. J. W. Batman of the Alumni As­
sociation, made an appeal to students 
from the Mid-West, who' comprise 
practically a quarter of the present | 
student body, to become interested in 
the Mid-Western Club, and form a 
strong organization representing stu­
dents and alumni from that section. 
He pointed out that Tech must have 
strong organizations to enable It to 
progress in the future, and that men 
from the Mid-West can do much. He 
announced that there would be a 
luncheon for Mid-Western men at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel at noon on Washing­
ton’s Birthday.
Miss Bowman, athletic coach of 
Margaret Morrison; presented letters 
to Miss Jean Robin, Miss Isabel Win­
ters and Miss Helen Reed. These let­
ters are the highest athletic honor 
granted by the girls’ school. They 
(Continued From Page Four.)
The Carnegie Tartan has need of 
more men for its editorial staff.
To anyone who is interested in 
newspaper work, this publication of­
fers an opportunity to engage in a 
school activity, and at the same time 
to become a candidate for one of the 
salaried positions on the staff.
The work will bring you in closer 
contact with the affairs of your 
school and in the quest of news you 
will become acquainted with mem­
bers of the administration and other 
citizens’ of the campus who other­
wise would probably be known by 
name only to you.
If you can write news, or think you 
can learn, get in touch with Victor 
Stromquist or Edw. A. Brand at the 
Tartan office. Room 5-A, Industries
by the association to carry on that 
branch of work for two reasons, 
firstly because it is an opportunity 
for the student to be a real help to 
his Alma Mater, and secondly be­
cause in organizing new Claus, the 
student also helps himself.
The club luncheons will be served 
promptly at noon at tUe Fort Pitt 
Hotel. An interesting program of 
speakers is assured, including Dr. 
T. S. Baker, acting president of 
Carnegie Teoh; J. W. Batman and 
G. L. Tilbroolc.
All men eligible for the Mid-West 
Club are invited to attend a theater 
party scheduled for those who de­
sire to attend.
OHIO STUDENTS, NOTICE
A very important meeting of the 
Buckeye Club will be held in the 
Y. M. C. A, Club rooms tonight (Feb­
ruary 23, at 7:00 sharp. Plans will 
be presented and discussed relative 
to the work of the organization in 
the establishment of graduate and 
undergraduate clans. A'll men from 
Ohio are invited to attend the meet­
ing. '
One Hundred Freshmen
Register February 6
GAMBOL OF GUILDS
IN UNION TO-NIGHT
Tlie Gambol of the Guilds is the 
annual dance given by the Industry 
men. In former years It was a 
strictly school affair but this year 
the other schools have been invited 
to attend. Several of the posters 
have the dance scheduled to take 
place in the Arts Foyer. It will
NOT be held there, but in the Union 
and Faculty Club Room.
Eve Hughes’ nine-piece orchestra 
will furnish the mueic; Newman will 
sing a few of his songs. The dance 
will start at 9:00 and ,end at 2:00 
a. m.
At tho end of the last week one
War Pictures Shown R.O.T.C.
The war picture “Flashes of Ac­
tion” shown yesterday. in Room 104 
¦Industries Building for the jstudents 
taking R. O. T. C., was.a very won­
derful picture depicting the soldiers 
of the United States Army in actual 
battle against the Germans. It is a 
six-reel film and is distributed 
through the Signal Corps. The 
scenes were taken by cameramen 
who were constantly under fire and 
several lost their lives and others 
were badly wounded in taking these 
pictures for the governmnt.
It was of special interest to those 
ex-service men who had served in 
France during the War, since ¿he 
First, Second, Third, Fifth, Twenty- 
sixth, Twenty-seventh and Eightieth 
Divisions and many other units were 
shown in action against the enemy. 
Some of the most horrible parts of 
the picture had been cut out of the 
picture, but there were still many 
soul-stirring scenes of death and de­
struction which takes all the romance 
out of war. There was one scene In 
particular, that of the Sixth Regi­
ment pf Artillery of the First Divi­
sion before the little French village 
of Eicermont. The regiment was lo­
cated on the side of a small hill just 
outside the town and a road leads 
along (at the foot of the 'hill. The 
German artillery got the range of the 
Sixth and shells began to fall all 
aroundn so that it was necessary that 
they change their location as soon as 
possible. .The guns are brought down 
•off the mil onto the road below and 
the b Srses hitched up to them and the 
v-ontinued on Page Four.)
Carnegie Tech has started a new 
practice, that of entering Freshmen 
at the beginning of the second sem 
ester. On February 6 one hundred 
new students enrolled in the various 
colleges. Twenty-one in Engineering, 
thirty-five in Arts, thirty in Indus­
tries, thirteen in Margaret Morrison, 
and one in Co-operative Research. By 
attending two consecutive summer 
sessions these students “may” gradu­
ate with the present Freshman class.
In Margaret Morrison College, Col­
lege of Engineering and College of 
Industries the new students are ex­
pected to attend the coming summer 
session; those who do not attend the 
summer session will be obliged to de­
fer the continuance of their courses 
until the beginning of the 'second sem­
ester of the following college year 
(February, 1923).
In the College of Fine Arts stu­
dents entered in February are en­
couraged to plan to spend eight or 
nine semesters in completing their 
courses, -although it is- possible for 
such students to shorten this time by 
attending summer sessions.
In all the colleges except the Col­
lege of Engineering the usual inter­
view with the Director of the College 
was required. The new Arts students 
were required to pass a technical 
test. These tests are given by the de­
partment which the student wishes to 
enter and are intended to determine 
whether or not the applicant pos­
sesses sufficient technical ability to 
warrant admission.
29.
Office hours are: Tuesdays, 11:30 
to 1:00; Wednesdays. 12:00 to 1:00.
OPEN FRANCIS PARRY 
MEMORIAL ROOM
Dr. Baker, Presides at Open­
ing Exercises Held in 
Campus Library
COMM. DECIDES 
TO BUILD GYM 
ON ARTS SITE
City Council Unable to Give 
Park Property For Gym. 
First Choice Reaffirmed by 
Committee
WORK TO START SOON
The formal, opening of 'tho Parry 
Memorial Room too place last 
Wednesday, February 15, 1922, In 
the campus Library in which it la 
located. This quiet corner in tho 
Library is arranged (for and pre­
pared by the faculty alumni and stu­
dents.
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, acting presi­
dent, opened the exercisoa and in 
speaking of the simplicity of the 
occasion aa|d: “OUr ontorpriao is
not pretentious, but 1 think it Is thus 
that Miss Parry would »have It. Sho 
who did not have to raise her volco 
In order to bo heard in this com­
munity of students and tqachors—sho 
who shunned self-g'lorlficatlon and 
sellif-advortisoment, would wish us to 
avoid ostentation in our efforts to 
perpetuate her memory."
Other speakCf.i wen'. Mias DoyoUiy 
Grant of tho Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College, and Miss Damarest 
who read some appropriate verses. 
Colonel Day, the next speaker, said 
that tihe Parry room was only a 
modest beginning of what they 
sometime hope to have, Mrs. Jano 
Lind’erman Colo, vice president of 
the - Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College Alumnae Association, for-1 
mally openod the room by 'drawing; 
the curtain.
The present endowment of Jpl,- 
229.81 was Biibscrlbod by tho facul­
ty, alumnae and students.. It Is
At a meeting of the Gymnasium 
Committee held in December, Mr. 
Jehu S. Herron of the Pittsburgh City 
Council suggested that a portion of 
the iSchenloy Park property above the 
Langley laboratory might be obtain­
able as a site for the new C. 1. T. 
Gymnasium. When approached on the 
subject Mayor Magee, Mr. Winters, 
Mr. Garland, Mr. McArdle and others 
of the City Council, also Mr. Mar­
tins, City Solicitor, all seemed eager 
to have us get this property, but after 
an Investigation of the Schenley deed 
it was found impossible to use any 
of the' Schenley Park property for 
other than park purposes.
Another meeting of the Gym Com­
mittee was held on Tuesday of last 
woek, at which all objections and 
Suggestions as to location woro pre­
sented by various parties, also the de­
cision regarding the suggested uso of 
the park property; pending which, ac­
tion on tho gymnasium has boon de­
layed. The committee finally re-af­
firmed their former choice of a loca­
tion on tho property In the roar of tho 
Arts Building, and Instructed tho ar­
chitect, Mr. Hornbostlo, to proceed 
with plans, using this as a site. No 
further delay in progross on tho now j 
gym is anticipated.
CHESS CLUB TO
HOLD A ROUND ROBIN
TOURNAMENT SOON
The Chess Club held a * meeting 
last Wednesday evening. Several im­
portant matters were discussed and 
decided on. The members decided to 
hold meetings every thirjil Wednes­
day evening. A Round Robin Tourn­
ament will be held in tho near fu­
ture. Tho members have planned to 
try and arrange some games with 
other ciliess clubs and also to play 
some by wireless.
NEW RULING FOR
PREPARATIONS 
COMPLETE FOR 
SCIENCE STAG
Will be Saturday Night. Tau 
Beta Pi Elections Will be 
Announced and Dean Mott 
Will Speak
ATHLETIC SPORTS VOLL .X OI N2CA2
Athletic Council Votes to 
Play Only Regular Col­
legiate Opponents
“FIESTA FN GRANADA” SUR­
PASSES ALL EXPECTATIONS
hundred and seventy-five - tickets had , 
been sold. Thei'e wili probably be 111111 ül1» omlqwmo.it wlB noonreach throe of four thousand dol-Iwo hundred couples present, 
t Tho patrons and patronesses aro:
I Acting President Dr. Thomas S. Bak­
er, Dean and Mrs. Morris, Doan 
Scales, Dean and Mrs. Tarbell, Mr. 
and Mrs. R. S. Alexandor, Mr. and 
Mrs. Win, Dosey.
L. I. NEWMAN SPEAKS AT JOINT 
MEETING MENORAH SOCIETY
DR. BAKER WILL DELIVER
ADDRESS BY RADIO
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, acting presi­
dent of Carnegie fljech, * willl give an 
address on Moliere on March 7 be­
fore the Westinghouse Company of 
Pittsburgh. While Dr. Baker s,peaks 
to his audience his speech will be 
taken by wireless telephone and flash­
es broadcast over the countny. There 
are . thousands of amateurs in the 
country having receiving sets and 
thus Dr. Baker’s speech - will be 
heard by many more than his act-, 
ual audience.Dr. Baker is an authority on the With Westminster and Theil
life of Moliere and his works, and 
his speech is sure to be valuable and 
interesting to those who are fortu­
nate enough to hear it.
lars. yhe income from tho Parry 
Fund is to be used for two pur­
poses; First, for buying books to 
bo placed In tho room and for the 
upkeep of Its furniture; second', Cor 
supplying text books each yoar to a 
certain number of needy and worthy 
students. Colonel Day said that thoy 
felt sure that Miss Parry would have 
liked ihese two objectives.
The nucleus of the collection nro 
Miss Parry’s own hooks, given by 
the Parry family. It is hoped that 
this place, dedicated to her memory, 
will be one of retreat from the hur­
ry of our college life, a place pro­
vided by thoughtfulness, meditation 
and love of honest scholarships. This 
room is open for all students <for 
quiet and leisurely reading.
, DebatingSeason OpensMar. 10
Carnegie Tech's first inter-collegi­
ate debates of this season are now 
It is hoped that Dr. Baker will ¡ 'close at hand and the association Is
working hard previous to its plunge 
into final preparations. The question 
for discussion in the first pentagonal 
is: “Resolved: That the Transporta­
tion Act of 1920 should be so amend­
ed as to grant mandatory power to 
the Railway Labor Board.” On the 
J evening of March 10 the affirmative 
Colonel G. E. A. Pairley, superln-| t6?m ot Carnegie will debate the nes- 
tendent of Buildings and Grounds,' ative team of Westminster In Pitts- 
will address the Carnegie Tech .^m'gh, while our negative team will 
Branch 'of the American Institute of tr!'vc'1 to Thi,;l The following Frl- 
Electrical Engineers Thursday even- day evening the affirmative team will
have many more opportunities to 
speak for the Radio Telephone, thus 
enabling people all over the country 
to hear his interesting talks.
COL. G. E. A. FAIRLEY TO
TALK BEFORE A. I. E. E.
A joint meeting of the Menorah So­
cieties of Tech and Pitt will be held 
this Thursday evening, February 23, 
at 8 p. m. sharp, at the Rodef Shalom 
Temple, Fifth and Morewood ave­
nues. ^
The principal address of the even­
ing will be delivered by Rabbi Louis 
I. Newman on “The Challenge of the 
New Generation.” Rabbi Newman is 
associate rabbi of Temple Israel, New 
York City, and was for five years as­
sociated with Rabbi Stephen S. Wise. 
He has received degrees from Brown, 
Columbia and California, has written 
a ^number of books on various phases 
of community life ,and has traveled 
extensively for the Intercollegiate |
ing, February 23, in Room 11, M. H., 
at eight o’clock. The subject of his 
talk wIM. be “Underground Cable 
Construction and Conduit Systems,” 
Colonel Fairley, who was a prac­
tising electrical engineer, before en­
tering the service at the outbreak of 
the war, is well qualified to talk on
journey to Geneva, while the nega­
tive team will stay at home and 
match wits with a team from Grove 
City. The teams have not been com­
pleted as to personnel and competi­
tion is at a red heat among the mem­
bers for one ot the coveted posi­
tions.
Coach Peterson has thus far deslg-
Tho question is often aslced: “Why 
go t;o an Art school?’’ And In reply, It 
may bo said that one of the many rea­
sons, Is tho Arts Ball. At the Hafuo 
time It may also bo stated that, to go 
|.o Arts without, at,tending the ball Is 
like going to Fraiieo without Hoeing 
Paris—vory few miss It.
Without a doubt,, tho “Flonta on 
Granada’’ was ono grand spectacle 
from beginning to end, surpassing In 
ovory way possible, “Tho Land of 
Enchantments” hold last year.
Shortly bot'ord nlno o'clock pictures- 
quo groups of Moors. Spaniards. 
Turks. Italians and othors hognn ar­
riving on one of tho main thorough­
fares of ancient Grnnada. On one 
sldo woro various storos and houses 
while tho other sldo was the site of 
a big Moorish temple. As the chim­
ing of bolls coming from tho Interior 
of the temple mystorlous announced 
the hour of uluo, strains of music 
came down from a balcony over the 
'ontranco to tho temple. Sonor Mag 
glo himself led his band of magicians 
off with "The Shlolc,’’ written ospoolal- 
ly for tho occasion, Tlie people start­
ed dancing, tho wealth of color of 
their costumes blending and harmon­
izing so woll with ono another and 
with the surroundings that a delight­
ful reaction camo over the senses of 
everyono.
About midnight the chimes of tho 
toihple again signaled the elapse of 
a certain period. Everyono went 
through the temple into tho littlo 
arena where a “bully sight” was put 
across In tho shape of a musical com­
edy, labeled “The Princess’ Slip"—a 
moment in old Granada—(just a mo­
ment, the rest was Arts’ Fun).
The plot followed closely the fan­
dangoes of that time, but the lines 
were decidedly ultra modern. Both 
by Lawrence Paquln. Music was by 
Frey, I-Iertzberg, Snyder and
The Athletic Council held a meet­
ing In the office of the graduate man­
ager Monday evening, February Oth. 
Irwin. Weber Stults, Dr. Marks, Prof. 
Leeds, Lee. Henderson, President 
Overend and Secretary Haaren woro 
present.
A discussion was entered into by 
everyone present to abolish baseball 
for the present season duo to a lack 
of proper facilities, but, Upon'a vote, 
It was decided to continue the sport 
as usual
It was also further moved and pass­
ed. that under, no conditions, begin­
ning September 1st., 1922, should tho 
varsity toams play other than regular 
collegiate opponents, This rule to bo 
observed In ovory rocogulzod varsity 
sport.
Tho following men wore awarded 
their numerals for play on the Fresh­
man and ResoWo football toam during 
the past season: Berryman, Wm. C., 
Bright, John G„ Emery, Ohoster A., 
Gilbert, Edw. C., Hyde, Willis, Lord, 
.Tamos G., Mason, Victor L„ Schwab, 
Harry ID./ Williams, Willis, Goo, Jas. 
W., Kalabioh, Blazo, Miller, Howard 
J„ and Jonos, Owen,
Chns. E, Mouror and Edgar P. Cul- 
lum woro also awarded special nu­
merals upon the recommendation of 
Coach Parks.
William Schmeror, manager of tho 
Rosorvo and Freshman team, was 
awardod his Minor “0" with a bar, 
for managerial servlcos.
POST BALL. DANCE
AN ENJOYABLE AFFAIR
The Post Ball Dance, held In tho 
Arts Foyer was voted a success (by 
all those present. The decorations, RNE 
perlor to those of any other open 
danco, addod greatly to the enjoy­
ment of tho ovonlng, while the Colle­
giate Six, who..worn at their best, 
presented tho addod touch which 
made tho danco one of the best over 
hold at Caruqglo.
Students’ Day of Prayer to he 
Observed Next Sun., Feb. 26
Noxt Sunday, February 2(1, has been 
set asldo by tho World’s Student 
Christian Federation as a day of 
prayer among all of tho Institutions 
of higher education. Tlio organl'/atlon 
backing this movement, as its name 
implies, is of International scope, 
governed primarily by students, and 
guided by such men of International 
reputation as John II. Mott, Karl 
Fries and othors. It will not come 
amiss If wo of Carnegio Tech lend 
our support to this worth-whilo ac­
tivity by attending our respective 
churches on noxt Sunday and by 
tprnlng our thoughts to tlio larger 
problems of life—those of right living 
and of lorty Ideals.
The churches In the vicinity of our 
campus have been Informed of this 
occasion and thoy will undoubtedly 
arrange appropriate servlcos. Be aft 
church next ©unday and help to make
It truly a day of prayer, of Introspec- 
iSchmeltz. Scenery by Wyckoff, and ¡ tlon and of lasting benefit to us all. 
costumes by Jennings. Arthur Lubln
was the most successful producer of 
It all, “getting over” the desired ef­
fect. In the manner of the contem- 
(Continued on Page Four.)
DR, REAM RESIGNS FROM
PSYCHOLOGY DEPARTMENT
R. O. T. C. TO RECEIVE
NEW RADIO SET SOON
The Signal Corps of the R. O. T. C. 
Department at Carnegie Tech have 
recently received notice from the Mil­
itary Department at Washington, that 
they will receive an S. C. R., No. 130, 
radio set, to be used In Signal Corps 
work. This set, which is a C. W. tele-
All Science men are getting lots’ 
of sleep this week so that' they will 
be full of life and pop at the 
smoker this Saturday night., The 
chairman and his committee have 
been working overtime on what prom­
ises to be the biggest affair of the 
year for Science.
Tho Science elections have been 
the cause of much doep thought, 
and also of many arguments pro 
and con concorning the relative 
merits of the best men for the vari­
ous honors. ICvory Science man is 
eligiWl6 and competition has been 
very lceon. Those elections will 
settlo for all time just who is who
in Science. Tjvo results will bo
made known at tho smoker and the 
winners suitably rownraod.
Tau Bota PI elections will also 
bo announced at this time. Director 
Mott will bo the speaker lor this
oyont.
Frank Ilaaron wilil bo tho other 
speaker of the 1 evening. These 
spoochos will bo tho only two of 
the evening, and thoy will both bo 
short.
Port M unha 11, Bob Waddol and 
other big men on the campus will
hi* guoBts of honor.
Tho stunts aro going to bo of tho 
host, so great care has boon oxor* 
clsod In selecting tho Judges. Prizes 
there will be -from the first to tho 
last worth while ones, and dll'for- 
0111..
The Tartan can not put, out an ox- 
(Comlnued on Page Four.)
Council Takes Action 
Regarding Cribbing
Fooling that cribbing 1« becoming a 
m on new to Carnegie, tho student Coun­
cil has taken up the matter with tho 
Discipline Committee. A Joint com­
mittee from the two bodies will moot 
to dpvlso means for eliminating «rib­
bing, The Discipline Committee rep­
resentatives are Messrs, llayurd, Dib­
ble and Stanton, The Council mem­
bers are Helen Heed, W. It. Mills, 
Carl Illod and It. (!. (hidden.
Tho matter of Plobo caps was dis­
cussed. There are only a few of the 
present stylo of caps left. It way 
dooldod to refer It tti the Four 
Schools' Regulation Committee. Ono 
thing for them to take up Is the ad­
visability of changing the stylo of tho 
cap for noxt year.
P. J. Unzlekor met with the Council. 
He asked that arrangements he made 
whereby the Campus Week Commit­
tee could borrow throe hundred 'dol­
lars on the bond purchased with tho 
profits of last year’s Campus Week. 
Mr. Unzlekor also reported that tho 
committee had hold a meeting. Thoy 
had decided to make the program 
much the same as last year’s program 
except that a pageant would supplant 
tho circus. The Mardi Gras Is also 
to be elaborated upon.
It was voted to recognize the Radio 
Club as a campus activity.
W. E. Lange asked that, the pres­
idents of the different school senates 
appoint thoir members on the Point 
System Committee. P. C. Gannon 
and T. Griggs were appointed from 
the Science Senate. The other mem­
bers will be.appointed later.
Dr. M. J. Ream, who was assist­
ant director of the Bureau of Per­
sonal Research, lias tendered Ills ! graph set, will have a wave-length 
resignation to that department which from 500 to 1,100 meter range, 
took effect January 15. Dr. Reamj On the transmitting side, four V. T. 
will enter the service of the Mutual , tubes are used, while 011 the receiving 
Benefits Life Insurance Company of Hide 3 V. T.-l tubes are used. .Tudg- 
Newark, N. J., as assistant superin- i ing from the other army sets, on a 
tendent of agencies. He will divide very conservative rating, this new
t ie above subject, as ho was ono of nIU(,(, wo timm
the engineers In charge of the work|j(1 jggfefcfc ,,f U|(j
of Installing tho underground cable dB,wW v,m Mes8r„ R 
and conduit systems In Boston, Hm|f|1 upho,,||nK th0 „tflrmatlvo, 
Mass. The lecture will be amply w,,„„ Mo„Kn, Uw,.onco am, mM„.
Illustrated by slides, and should] hen(| wl„ B[,onl)ar the negative Vlew-
prove of Interest to every electrical p0jnt ,
man in the school. I west Virginia has not definitely
The annual banquet of the A. I-| given assurance that the W.-J. trl-
i E.E. will--be held the evening of j angle will be completed and the Bolli-
Menorah Society, of which he was at j March 18. The price this year will 1 tlon of difficulties Involved may re-
niiQ timo Tirooiflont hfi tWO dnWarK n lililtfi. fl rmlllPt ifm .I.w.l ,1,1...,. , „1,1.one time president. j be two doMars a plate, a reduction
There will be a musical number on j over last year's price. Tickets for 
the program, which you are urged not thus affair will be on the campus
to miss. soon, and may be obtained from one
This meeting will be one of the ‘ of ‘.he committee. More definite
finest treats of the season, and a plans 'concerning the banquet v ’11 be! It is highly probable that negotla-
large turnout is expected. Bring annour.V’d in the following \ues tions will be coi ipleted for a contest
! in Pittsburgh, (i
suit in merely a dual debate with the 
latter college. New York University 
Is sending a team on an extended 
Southern tour ahd is anxious to se­
cure a date on .Carnegie’s schedule.
your friends along.I of Tb
'Â
megie Tartan.
? V '
in Pittsburgh.
his time between field superintendent 
and home office work.
Dr. Reani was very well known dur­
ing his two years of work In Person­
al Research at Carnegie Tech. spend­
ing his time on work for various life 
Insurance companies, for whom ho 
worked out method» of choofdng the 
salesmen and analyzing agencies In 
these! companies. Dr. Roam was 
very popular among his co-workers, 
and leaves 1 many friends hero at 
Tech, all of whom wish him success 
In his new position.
“C” CLUB TO HOLD DANCE
IN UNION ON MARCH 24
Tho ”C” Club hold a meeting on 
Thursday aftemoon and decided to 
hold meetings every first Wednes­
day of the month at 4:30 p. m. On 
March 24 the “C” Club will conduct 
a dance in the Union. The question
set which, Captain Walker is expect­
ing, will have a transmitting range 
of over 250 miles.
NEWMAN CLUB
VALENTINE DANCE
The Newman Club of Pittsburgh 
hrtld a Huooesftful and enjoyable val­
entine dance In K. of C. Hall, Fifth 
and Bolloflold, Monday evening, Feb­
ruary 13. Tho Collegiate Six fur­
nished music for tho occasion.
Novelties In form of valentines 
and fancy candy hearts added to 
merriment of the occasion.
The chaperons were Mr. and Mrs. 
Frank J. Lanahan, Mr. and Mrs. 
Wm. Ballon and Mr. and Mrs. J. 
Morris.
The next rogular meeting of the 
club will be held Februury 2fi in 
of varsity hats was discussed and Cathedral High School. GS this
an attempt will be made to have1 meeting promises to be an interest-
them on the campus by baseball and, ing and exciting one, iiJll members
tennis season. j should make an effort to attend.
Variety in Arts Exhibit
The exhibition . of works of the 
faculty of the College oi Fine Arts 
is a rare treat to the lovers of art. 
All the work is the product of the 
faculty from Tech It is Impossible 
to do justice to the display in this 
article, but wo will just attempt to 
touch a few of the peaks. First hon­
ors are about, divided between Mr. 
Ashe and Mr. MacGiQivary. In con­
tract with Mr. Asiie’s bold, rich, real­
istic and colorful masterpiece there 
aro Mr. MaoGIlvary’s subtle, dainty 
and Imaginative work.
Mr. Taylor and Mr. Bicknell are 
represented with a large number of 
landscapes. Mr, Bayard’s bright land­
scape» aro offset by Mr. Klar’s 
heavier metal workors and noo.tural 
subjects. Mr. SJmgoll has a number 
of attractive ¡pieces there, also; Mr. 
Bossango, Mr. Readio, Mr. SuMlvan, 
Miss Tapp and Margaret Whitehead 
have some excellent pieces on ex­
hibit. Mr. Sollom’s stained glass 
designs are good,
Mr. Hornbostel, Mr. Ellngton and 
Mr. Stermfeld- of the Architectural 
Department, have some very Interest­
ing architectural drawings there. In 
Applied Arts Mr. Ellis and Mr. Clay­
ton show many pieces of jewelry and 
metal1 objects. Miss Canfield shows 
some fine pottery.
Mr. ^sTebel of the Sculpture Depart­
ment shows, very attractive model­
ing-
^Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1922
® Cainigis ITartan
Published ovory week by undergraduate« of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho BupcrvlBlon of the Student Activities Board.
Entered In tho PoBtoillce of PlttsburBh as Hocon.'1-ciasB matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES ............................................................ Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Hazel 1)398
VOLLOGT OOU TOLLF UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU .NHOCCAHS Manager
Telephone—Schenley 2058*11
VIC. II. STROMQUIST ............................................................... Managing Editor
Telephones—Schenley 0180 or Hlland 858
HELEN V. LEWIS .................................................................. Associate Editor
Telephone—Schenley 0070
L. J. WHITEHEAD ..................................................................... Awsoclato Editor
Telophone—Schenley 0070
EDWARD A. BRAND................................................................................................. Now« KeillorTelephone—Schenley 0070H. P. BIMPBON.........................¦¦¦¦¦¦¦;¦;................. Athletic EditorTelephone—Schenley 0070
It. II. GUYTON ................................................................................. • Pliotogrnphor
O. A. DKIKMAN ............................................................................ Hxclm.iiw Ivlllor
II D. BONNKMANN ............................................................. Advertising Mauugor
Tolophono—Schenley 02X1
TC L REILLY........................................................................... Circulation Manager
‘ EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Gladys Bogue, M. Schumatjhor, II. F. Dieter, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
I’ C MacKenzlo, II. H. Lefhowltz, II. II. Wilson, K. L. McKee, W. .1. Bolton, 
I Hortzman, F. T. I’holpB, E. J. Maust, R. P. Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. 
Downes, Wv G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. Byorly,
ATIILETIC CONTJIIBUT0R8
If. H. Wilson, H. J. McCormick, J. A. Homo, L. D. Allshouso.____________
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. M. Cooper, E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. KaltenhauBer, J. C. 
Major» P. H. Allison, A. D. Young, W. I. Miller, L. M. Landis, J. B. Laudlg 
and P. P. Schuckor. __________________________________________________
Tho Editor-In-Chief 1« responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tlio make up.________________________________________________
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest. If signed, 
signature will bo withheld If deBlrod. All NY,S Items must be sin tho Btudont 
post olllee before 4:30 Friday._____________________________________________________
Tartan Olllco—Room 5-A, Industries Building, omco hours—Tuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
GRADUATE MANAGER OF NON-ATHLETIC ACTIVITIES
Lu.st, year it Graduute Manager of lion-athletic activities was sug­
gested and the Student Activities Board endeavored to obtain a man 
for the position. But the varied experience and knowledge necessary 
for such a job did not seem to be attracted by the meager compen­
sation which the Student Activities Board offered. The matter seems 
to have been dropped.
Whether it will be taken up again, we do not knojv, but wc hope 
il; lias not been l!oi’gotten and when someone starts criticizing any 
0J! the non-athletic activities by comparing them with activities oi: 
other schools, just remember that, in all probability, the other school 
has a Graduate Manager ol! non-athletic activities. The Musical 
Clubs and Band feel the need oil a Graduate Manager more than any 
other activity. The publications probably do not i’ccl the want of a 
Graduate Manager, but a Graduate Managor could effect many im­
provements and changes that are now impossible. The money now 
spent on activities has a low efficiency, a Graduate Manager is need­
ed to bring tho efficiency up. And ill the non-athletic activities "are 
to be placed on a par with activities of other schools, a^Graduatc 
Manager is essential.
A Graduate Manager is as essential to non-athletics as a Grad­
uate Manager is to athletics. II! we a/ro going to build up a,tlileti.es 
and leave the other activities hang on as best they can, then the pres­
ent system is all right. But il! we want a well-balanecd school life* 
under a management that is efficient and able, a Graduate Manager 
of non-athletic activities must bo procured.
Calendar of Student Events
Basket
Dnnco-
Danco-
Baslcel;
I )rnnnv-
I )ramìi- 
Baslcel;
I Irniiin
SmokerTIJJ:
,i)rnnwi-
Basket
Dance
Basket
Banque
Dance-
Dance—
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
Bn.ll—Carnogie vs. Geneva...................................8:15, Tech Gym
-“Gambol of tho Guilds*'.............................College of Industries
To <1: Schools i) :()(), Arts I*1,oyer
'WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22 '
-Arts Scholarship Dance..................................8:30, Ivittenhouso
Ball...OArnogio vs. West Virginia........................................There
THURSDAY, pSBUUABY 23
“Don Juan”... .............................................8:1.5, Arts Theater
FRI DAY, FEBRUARY 24
“ i.joai’ned laid PAHB.........4:00 and 8 :15, Arts Theater
Bull Carnogie vs. ’WesI; Virginia.......................8:1.5, Tocli Gym
HA TUR DAY, FEBRUARY 25
“ Urnrnod hadios".........................................8:1.5, Arts Theater
•Seieneo 8l.ag ...............................................8:15, fjangloy Lab.
DSD AY, VV I'l I ) N IDS I > A V, THURSDAY AND SATURDAY, 
ramUJARY 28, MARCII I, 2 AND I
“An Ideal llnsband" (Oscar Wildo).......8:15, Arts Thontor
THURSDAY, MARCH 2
Ball- Carnegie vs. W. Va. Wes............................8:15, Tech Gym
Kill DAY, MARCH 3
•3 School Senior Ball.........................................!):()(), y^rts 'Foyer
SATURDAY, MARCJ-1 I
Ball—Carnegio vs. Bethany.................................8:1.5, Tech Gym
1...3 School Junior'Banquet.
-Musical Club Dance................................................. 8:30, Union
FRIDAY, MARCH 10 
-Buckeye Club ....................................................................... Union
CIVIL ENGINEERING SOCIETY 
AFFILIATES WITH AMERICAN 
SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS
WORCESTER TECH STUDENT 
WINS COLLEGE COMPETITION 
ON EDISON’S QUESTION
Tho Civil Engineering Society of 
the College oil! Engineering has re­
cently affiliated with the American 
Society of Civil Engineers and will 
'he .known in the future as the “Car­
negie Institute of Technology1 Stu­
dent Chapter of tho American So­
ciety of Civil Engineers.” All civil 
engineering students are eligible to 
membership in this student 'Chapter.
Each student chapter is entitled to 
the following:
(a) A copy of each issue of tho 
proceedings of the American Society 
of Civil Engineers and of all papers 
and discussions.
(b) The opportunity to publish 
notices of its chapter activities in 
publications of tho American Society 
of Civil Engineers.
(c) The active co-operation of 
tho American Socioty of Civil1 Engi­
neers in advancing the interoats of 
each student chapter by contributing 
(from Its own organisation, member­
ship, and experience) auchi service 
a« may bo mutually arranged.
Among tho privileges offered to 
members of student chapters aro:
(a) Individual subscription to the 
proceed Inga at a special price.
(¦b) To receive at cost, on re­
quest. copies of such separate papers 
as may be printed in pamphlet form.
(c) The right to attend the meet­
ing and accompany inspection trips 
and excursions arranged for mem­
bers of the American Society of 
Civil Engineers.
(d) Provision for the publication 
of requests for summer employment 
during the college course or for per­
manent engagement after graduation.
(e) The opportunity to hear 
speakers whose personal experiences 
qualify them to speak with author­
ity -upon ,the. .-many questions which 
are of particular importance to the 
student during his college course.
Boston, Mass.—College undergradu­
ates and alumni were given the op­
portunity of competing for a prize of 
$10.0 offered by the John . Hancock 
Life Insurance Company. This prize 
has been awarded to Leon V. Quig­
ley, a student at Worcester Polytech­
nic Institute,
One of tho questions asked by 
Thomas A. Edison in his first and 
most famous questionnaire was “Who 
was John Hancock?” At least one 
answer stated that John Hancock 
was president of n life insurance com­
pany. So an officer of the John Han­
cock Life Insurance Company of Bos­
ton conceived the idea of putting the 
question before college men and of­
fering a prize for the best answer. 
Due to the unexpectedly large num­
ber ,of competitors, considerable dif­
ficulty was experienced in deciding 
on tho winner, as tho competition 
closed on November 15 and the award 
has just'been made.
Mr, Quigley is 20 years old, lives 
in Worcester, and la a member of tho 
..Junior Class and a student. In- tho 
Chemical Engineering Department..'
«j. .j. .j. .j. .5. .j. .j. ,j. ,j. .j, .j. .j,
*
WHY IT HAPPENS *
•!* When one remembers that 
•I* in an ordinary column there aro * 
•I* 10,000 pieces of typo, there are 
•!* seven wrong positions that a v 
v letter may be put in, and there •!* 
are 70,000 chances to make er- *!* 
•J* rors, millions of chauces for *1* 
* transpositions, he will not be * 
too critical. •;<
In the short sentence, “To be v 
or not to be,” by transposition *J< 
¦ alone it is possible to make 4
• 2,759.022 errors. So you can see 4
• the perils that beset a printer.— *:• 
.Exchange.
M. 1VL C. NEWSROAMIN’S
RCWW LADb 1U ,bDY9Z
ADDRE8SE3 CLA8S IN
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
On February 0 Ml»» Lola F. Walk­
er, State Organizer of the League of 
Women Voters, addressed Mr. OONNSo 
class in American Government.
Sho emphasized the non-partisan 
aspect of the league, outlining Its) 
work in Allegheny county, telling of 
the court, council and county com­
mittees, and the most urgent work 
and of what hi perhaps the moat I 
urgent of all Jtii efforts—that of 1 
educating the women along the iln'jsj 
of their reapon si bill ties of voting j 
and electing the best candidates at! 
coming elections.
The girls at M. M. C. C. are to be 
given a chance to join the league, 
receive notices of meetings and 
thereby ho able to keep in close 
touch with this groat and Important 
movement.
SOCIAL WORK CLUB PARTY
Thursday evening the Social Work 
Club of Margaret Morrison gave a 
dinner and party In honor of its de­
partmental head, Mrs. Mary Clarke 
Burnett. Mrs. Burnett has been in 
the social work. Held for many years 
in both Canada and the states. She 
comes directly from California where 
she has been engaged In medical so­
cial work.
Tho party Thursday evening wel­
comed Mrs. Burnett into Margaret 
Morrison. The faculty, Sophomores. 
Juniors and Seniors entertained by 
stunts during tho evening.
Y. W. C. A. PARTY
La«t Thursday afternoon the Y. W. 
C. A. gave an enjoyable party in tho 
Margaret Morrison Recreation I-Iall. 
Games, stunts and lollypops pro­
vided amusement ana entertainment 
for tho crowd present;
Mias r Katherine Richards was 
among us—and after the games she 
told ua a lot of interesting thinga 
about her recent trip to China, 
Japan and (Honojuflu. While in Hon­
olulu »lie juat happened to meet, at 
the beach at Waltiki, two of . our 
Margaret Morfison Alumnae whom 
our Seniore and Juniors will remem­
ber, Harriet Stone and Barbara En- 
dres. We should like to have seen 
tom, too.
Friday noon the. Y. W. C. A. Cabi 
net went into conference with Miss 
Katherine L. Richards, tlio student 
secretary of tlila East Central field. 
Local problems were discussed with 
the various committee cjhairmen and 
good results are beinj* hoped for as 
a | result of Mlaa Richards’ advice 
and "help. Our blggeat problem is 
that of keeping in mind that the Y, 
wi 6v Al 'la tho aaaoclatlon, not the 
¦cabinet, but of overy member of the 
Y.| W. C. A. Perhaps each member 
tttiay help us by realizing her re- 
aponsibilllty, and if alio sees any ae.- 
,{.1011 on tluji part of the cabinet which 
sh'o feels It la not justilled' in—tell 
lilije , «viblnotp^aak, it about ;iit-Ht, ijs, 
,Uio/ meip'ber’a right.
Y. W. C. A. Faculty Campaign.
A campaign has .been launched. In 
Margaret Morrison for 'membership 
In ,tbe faculty, We have Tong felt 
the desire to have them aa mom'bera
...and now that, deairo la rapidly he-
Ing 1 realized. We are moat happy to 
have them he a. part of us—and wo 
hope thoy will feel that link be­
tween ua from tho very atari..
Welcome ! from all of us!
Track Team Ready For 
Johns Hopkins Indoor Meet
That Hit' elans of Carnegio Tech’s 
truck team la recognized in the eaat 
was clearly shown when Carnegie re­
ceived an Invitation to enter a team 
In a special Invitation medley relay 
I11 the annual .lohna Hopkins indoor 
meet on February 2fi. This meet is 
ono of the big intercollegiate indoor 
meets of the year. As in the Penn 
relays, tho featured events are the 
various relay races, which bring to­
gether tho clasa of eastern collegiate 
speedsters.
,'Thp event in which Carnegie Tech 
is entered is a special medley relay 
between Carnegie and Johns Hopkins. 
The tennis are of four men—one man 
running 220 yards, another the 440, 
the third man a half mile, and the 
fourth man runs one mile.
Johns Hopkins always has good 
teams on the cinder path, and al­
though nothing' definite is known as 
to their present team, it is believed 
to be every bit as good as any of 
their former teams.
For Carnegio there are three 
men of ajjoux equal mer­
it on the 220. John Kelly and 
Lockwood, last year’s standbys, are 
being hard pushed by Jimmy Robert­
son1 of football and baseball fame. At 
present there is little to choose be­
tween any of the three but Coach Id- 
dings expects to pick one man defin­
itely within a week or so.
The 410 seems to he almost cinched 
by “Dummy" Szold, who came to 
Tech last fall to study drama, “Dum­
my" has been timed in about 51 sec­
onds quite consistently, and has bet- 
tored that time mere than once.
For the half mile, Kelly of the 
cross-country toam, is. sovoral laps 
ahead of the field, Ho holds tlio 
Ohio liiteracholastte record for tho1 
half In tho time of 2:01. Those per­
sons who hoard "Shuttles1’ Thomas 
predict, great things for Kelly at the 
football smoker last fall will bo glad 
to hear that Coach lddlngs considers, 
him the best half-mile prospect that 
he has seen In a long while. He fig­
ures that Kelly should have little 
trouble taking cure of Ills share of 
the race.
Dykeman, In the mile, is rather 
green, this boing his second year of 
track competition, but as I10 did the 
mile in 4:36 consistently last year, 
he should be able to come through in 
nice shape. He has developed . a 
great deal since he first came out 
last year, and lie is rapidly coming 
around in good shape. From present
“A little humor now and then. Is 
relished by the best of men.” But 
Roamer wishes to Blate. For the bene­
fit of those who would take. These 
words of Mr. Lannahan too seriously. 
That there Is. Such a thing as. Seri­
ous humor. And I have often wonder­
ed. As I saw numerous presenta­
tions. Of letters to grid heroes. If 
they weren't sick and tired. Of the 
stock and staid old phrases. That are 
usually handed out. After a year of 
plowing in mud. Be it humor or not. 
There was a wealth of sincerity In 
the words. Of our newest friend. And 
rooter. His impulsive, humorous tri­
butes. Were higher than others. That 
even a poet laureate could have pre­
conceived.
Speaking of football players re­
minds me that the Incoming Fresh­
man. Would do well. To get acquaint­
ed wilh the men. On the campus. 
Who count for something at Carnegie. 
You should know every football man. 
For even if you haven't soen them 
011. The‘gridiron. They rate your at­
tention and esteem. And to those who 
have been 011 the campus. And don’t 
know every man on the Bquad. Snap 
out of it. Show your appreciation. Of 
what they have done In the past. And 
even if they are qui,et now. Keeping 
ol’ Geclc in his alienee. "You'll find 
them only too willin’! To break the 
silence. And honor you. With a nod 
or a word.
/ ROAMER.
Design School giife and Maggie 
Murphs who trip" around' so blytlie 
and free, andj ifeveri se.eni to have 
a care or have to work Tike you or 
me, these ¿iris have caused more 
flunks, I think, than any two Profs. 
In this school, for boy» who go with 
Maggie Murphs juat have no time 
to- learn a rule.
The green young Plebe who comes 
to school determines that he will 
not shirk, but when lie sees the 
girls at Tech he never thinks again 
of work, lie .spends his money just 
like sand and I’ll admit that he has 
fun, but when examinations come, he 
finds’ that he has nothing done. And 
so he packs his trunk and leaves, a 
sadder and a wiser man, and ever 
after in his life the girls from Tech 
are under ban.
But. 'let us cease to croak about 
the things these girls do that are 
wrong, and let us look at their good 
side and change the burden of our 
song. They always« seem to boost 
tho school which many .fellows do 
not do, and while a fellow cheers for 
one, the Maggie Murphs make noise 
for two.
Whenever we think just of boys 
Carnegie Is the name we check, but 
when we think of Maggie Murphs 
we call our school Carnegie Tech.
PSYCHOLOGY DEPART­
MENT NOTES
Dr. B. R. Buckingham, director of 
the Bureau of Educational Research 
at Ohio State University, spoke be­
fore tho Seminar in Applied Psychol­
ogy, Friday, February 17, at 3:00 
p. 111.
On February 23, Thursday, Dr. 
Roswell .Tollman of the University of J 
Pennsylvania, will address tho Sem­
inar of Appllod Psychology. His 
Subject will bo "Some Results of 
the Civic Club Tosta."
Dr W. W. Charters apolce before 
a joint meeting in Now York of the 
"Executive Club and tho. National 
Aaaoclatlon .for Corporation Training," 
011 Friday, February 17.
COMMENTS
UNSUNG HEROES
The last glory of the season’s foot­
ball stars is paling on the horizon. 
Soon it will be basketball or hockey, 
baseball, tennis, swimming and what­
not. Any branch of athletics brings 
its quota of fame—and rightly, too, 
for physical excellence is not achiev­
ed by many men, yet all desire it.
In college football and professional 
baseball especially are the players 
exalted to the skies. Their biographies 
and personal mannerisms, are re­
counted as fully as If they were, presi­
dents or captains of industry. Fully 
as much space is given them in the 
newspapers. More power to them.
This editorial Is for the benefit of 
the unsung heroes—the men in col­
lege activities who labor day and 
night for the advancement of their 
university—all year around, tiring out 
their brains, endangering their scho­
lastic standing, and wearing out their 
nervous systems through worry. 
Theirs is not the glamour and the ap­
plause. While athletes are sweating, 
yjese’ men are thinking, plarfning, 
hustling-—learning lines for dramatic 
productions, rehearsing night after 
night; writing jokes anjl news,'arrang­
ing sections of the yearbook; gather­
ing up loose ends that someone else 
had failed to do; getting gray hair 
in financial considerations which 
evolve hundreds of dollars—like the 
Fog Raiser.
Seldom does a man even moderate­
ly busy in activities get his required 
eight hours of sleep. Often he sits up 
until nearly dawn, w'orking, working 
on something that MUST be put 
across. Student Council work, Boost 
Ohio work, publicity work, illustra­
tion, stadium solicitation, thinking up 
new^ hunches and features for The 
Lantern—all these require that old 
spark of indomitable energy which 
gets things done.
Activities are bouncj. to pile up on 
certain men, for they prove them­
selves capable. The incentive for such 
men to work is only half as great— 
they know they will receive little 
credit and often be greatly misunder­
stood. Honorary' societies provide a 
reward, but they are hard to wait 
for.
But cheer up, unsung ones! Yours 
is the reward which tells in the long 
run. There is no greater training for 
success in business or politics or 
journalism than the grueling mill of 
college activities. Athletics are body­
builders and some are mihd-builders, 
but the unsung heroes win the fine 
points which are worth possessing.— 
Stitte Lantern.
Centre College, Ky., has an en­
rollment this year of 238 students. 
Up to the present time 3,000 applica­
tions for admittance have been re­
ceived.
Father (to young suitor): “Why,, 
young man, you couldn’t even dress 
her.”
Suitor: "Be it so, but it wouldn’t 
take long to learn.”—Whirlwind.
This 1S for the ladies as well as 
the gentlemen. When your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. We will call for it I 
and deliver it. Our work is the I 
best, our service quick, our prices) 
reasonable. Miss O’Leary, 3933 
Forbes street.
MURRAY RESTAURANT 
Squirrel Hill’s Exclusive Dining 
Room.
Corner
FORBES AND MURRAY AVE. 
Squirrel Hill.
Hazel 9373.
& EVANS
HATS and MEN’S FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Dr. Robinson of the Bureau of 
Personnel Research, and Mr. Paul 
M. iStlnchfield, an alumnus of Car­
negie Tech, who have been making 
a tour of tine Edison dealers in Ilil- 
noia, Missouri Indiana and Ohio, 
spent Saturday, February 11, in con­
sultation with Dr. E. V. Bingham 
and members of t’lie Personnel Bu­
reau. The/('ViTl “open schools to 
train Edison' saio^en, in both Bos­
ton and Philadelphia in the near fu­
ture. 1
Oakland Savings 
P & Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System.
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
I........JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY f
*{• CRAIG AND FORBES STREET £
*:* Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year. VA BELL PHONE X
y Classes each evening. Private lessons dally, y
X A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL J
Oakland Community House
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Chess or checkers.
Pool Tournament.
Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play and sing.
Club, frat or committee meetings.
“Just visit.”
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes..............................10:00 Wes ts
Quiet.........................>.......... Sunday afternoon
Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
young people’s meeting.............5:30-7:30 P. M.
Information and friendly help any time.
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BOQUET STREETS
IS/g.,i9J5J5i5/5M5i5/5/5/5f5M5JG,j5i5/5J5i5/5/5J5i5i5Jp1lBJSiBj5i5JSi5J5i5J5J5J5M5/B/SJSJ5iBJSJBJ5JSi5/5J
MSMSMS/SMSMSiSMSMSiSJSMSMSMSJMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMclMSMSMSiSJ
THE BEST DANCE FLOOR 
In Pittsburgh is that of the
DUQUESNE GARDEN 
BALL ROOM
Schedule your next party on the Garden floor. - For private reser­
vations see Paul Qualtrough, manager, or M. F. Lane at Duquesne 
Garden, or call Schenley 3106.
f^fpiii^liJfin[^n^[pn^fnif¡JfiJfrJnJf¡g.f¡^ji^ipi[pifpifí>iípi[pi[iJfgfig]gfgfgjgjg/gjg!jgjgfgjgfgjgfgjgjgfgfgfgjgjgjgjgjgfgjgi
Y. M. C. A. NOTES
Regular Y. M. C. A. swim \yill be 
held in Schenley High School on 
Wednesday evening, February 22, at 
7:30 p. m., as usual. Come out and 
enjoy a fine swim.
Dr. Budlong of the Ascension Epis­
copal Church, will be the speaker at 
next Wednesday’s Y. M. C. A. chapel 
exercises held in the Little Theater 
in the Arts School at 12:50.
Al May’s Discussion Group for 
Plebes has changed -the time of its 
meetings from Friday evenings at 7 
p. m. to Wednesday evening at the 
same hour. The next meeting will be 
held on the evening of March 1st.
Professor Simpson’s Discussion 
Group will resume its regular weekly 
meetings on March Tirst, in the Y. M. 
C. A. clubroom at 12:30
There will be no meeting of the 
Radio ¡Glub next Wednesday, since 
that day is declared a holiday. The 
regular meeting will be held on the 
next Wo.dnoaday, March 1st, at 7:30, 
Tower.-
Doctor: “You will have to give up 
all mental work for a few weeks.” 
o Stude: "But doctor, i am a Sopho­
more In college tliia year. How bntOO I 
manage with my work?"
Doctor: “Oh, tliia won’t interfere 
with your college work."-—Hullabaloo.
The ten frateri 
University) Pa., hhave entered into an 
agreement to. refrain from all inter­
ference in the selection of leaders for 
athletic sports.
indications, Dykeman will have to 
stand most of the distance work this 
year, as Miller is still bothered by the 
leg Injured in the Penn State cross­
country meet.
These men have been training for 
the past two w^;ks on the Westing- /
bouse indoor traick and are rapidly /'
rounding into c! iditlon. ^ani
\” y,e
never
They are 100% pure Turkish to­
bacco—of the finest varieties grown.
You are proud to smoke them 
in any company—on any occasion.
They are the largest selling high- 
grade cigarette in the world.
The cigarette smokers of America 
DO prefer Quality to Quantity.
“Judge for Yourself—! ”
08774450

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANTHREfc
B. K. Elliott Company"
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Drawing Materials and Surveying Instruments, Blue Print Papers and Cloths, 
Artists’ Materials, Optical Goods.
Photographic Supplies and Cameras.
. Highest grade developing and printing.
126 SIXTH STREET (Opposite Alvin Theater) PITTSBURGH
•4
*fcf mw)i illÿ§
PLAID ATHLETICS
WEST VIRGINIA FIVE 
MEETS PLAID SQUAD
Team Lacks Services of New­
man and Potter. Moran 
New on Squad
Carnegie Tech's badly shattered 
basket ball team will play West Vir­
ginia Five Wednesday at Morgan­
town. Coach Hal Iddings realizes 
what he is up against. The loss of 
Don Potter and Newman from the 
squad has been felt severely. Both 
Potter and Newman thought it ad­
visable to turn in their sweaters so 
that they could give more time to 
their scholastic work. They want to 
take no chances of becoming inelig­
ible for football next fall.
It is interesting to compare the re­
sult of West Virginia’s Eastern trip 
with the Eastern trip of Carnegie 
Tech. The Mountaineers' lost badly 
to Princeton by a score of 37 to 11. 
and again to New York University 22 
to 30. Carnegie lost to Catholic Uni­
versity 41 to 32 and were humbled 
by the mighty Navy quintet 57 to 20. 
Judging from these scores it seems 
that the Tartan clan would have a 
- slight edge over the West Virginia 
aggregation in the coming games. The 
lineup which Carnegie will present 
is still much in doubt, but a five con­
sisting of Dosey, Gibson, Allen, Bell 
and Godden or the new man Moran. 
A return game will be played Friday 
night in the Tech gymnasium.
A new rule has gone into effect in 
the Frosh co-ed dormitory at Beloit, 
Wis. All girls taking French must 
necessarily converse in French and 
infringement of the rule results in a 
one-cent fine for every word not 
found in the romance language.
Plaid Girls Lose Hard 
Game to Geneva Team
Lack of Team Work Largely 
Responsible. Miss 
Thomas Injured
MARGARET MORRISON GIRLS MAKE UP 
STAFF OF RE-ORGANIZED “SHILLING”
The Carnegie Tech Girls’ Varsity 
went down to defeat before the bet­
ter playing of the Genva College 
Girls by the score of 13 to 3. last 
Saturday night at the Geneva Gym­
nasium in Beaver Falls. The com­
bination of “Margaret Morrison and 
Arts” did not. work to anything like 
the good advantage that they did 
against Thiel, which more than any 
other single item, with the .possible 
exception of the foul shooting, ex­
plained the defeat. But in placing 
the blame of thé defeat, credit must 
not be overlooked for the Geneva 
Girls, for they put up a good game, 
with good passing and clever guarii 
ing.
Both teams shot in hard luck, the 
ball time and time again rolling 
around the rims of the basket only 
to finallly get too far on the outside 
and drop off.
A good foul shooter could hâve 
won the game for either side, as 
numerous fouls were called, fact is, 
entirely too many. The referee was 
good in that nothing escaped her 
watchful eyes—it might have tended 
towards a more interesting game if 
some breaches had -escaped her 
watchfulness.
For Geneva, Miss Edgar showed to 
good advantage, when ejected into 
the lineup, with her accurate foul 
shooting—the only girl who was 
able to shoot the ball through the 
loop by the free route with con­
sistency. Her record was 100 per 
cent, making 4 out of 4. One of
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Phone—Court 3556 „aHonus Wagner Sporting Goods Company
438 WOOD STREET
Sporting Goods of Every Description.
Liberal Discounts to Students.
Left to right in the picture—Anne Kirker, Editorial Staff; Blair Jessop, Business Staff; Isabelle Winner, Bus­
iness Manager; Lillian Coleman, Business Staff; Helen Duncombe, Editorial Staff; Marian McCombs, Editor-In-
Chief; Dorothy Grant, Assistant Editor; Gladys Bogue, Editorial Staff.
Faculty advisors for the Shilling are: Dr. Malcolm McLeod and Mrs. Vermorcker.
The Shilling is a magazine edited 
and managed by the girls of the 
Margaret Morrison Division, devoted 
to the publication of short stories,
larly until the sclidol year 191S-1919, 
when publication was suspended due 
to the war.
Miss Anna M. Thomas, ’15, was 
the first editor-in-chief, and at that
sketches and other articles of merit time the policy of the paper was to
by the students of the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology. The first is­
sues appeared on the campus in the 
spring of 1914, and it appeared regu-
limit the material appearing in the 
paper to Margaret Morrison contribu­
tions. The policy of the stafT at the 
present time has extended so as to
receive for publication contributions 
from al\ four schools, although the 
Shilling is still directed by a staff 
selected exclusively from the Mar­
garet Morrison Division.
The second issue of the present 
year will be published in the near 
future, the stall' being actively en­
gaged in the production of the same 
at the present time.
the Misses
which—made a wonderful 
the middle of the floor during^ 
latter part of lie game, which 
without a doubt the best piece 
shooting during the game.
An accident to Miss Eleanor 
Thomas during the first quarter of 
the game perhaps tended largely to 
discourage the Carnegie Tech girls. 
Miss Thomas had the misfortune to 
wrench her knee, but showed won­
derful gameness and spirit by at­
tempting to resume play, but the 
whistle had hardly blown, when It was 
discovered it would be impossibe 
for her to play. Miss Thomas was 
playing a great game and her loss 
will be a large one and hard to fill. 
Thte lineup:
Carnegie Tech. Geneva.
Reed ....................F............ Alexander
Winner ................F.................... Ecoff
Thomas ...............iC.................... Aiken
Eakin .................S. C............... Hughey
Montgomery G..V.................. Lee
Bulmer ... il{.. ..G.......... McBurney
Field GOrtls-f—Helen Reed, Alex­
ander 2, Ecoff -2.
Foul Goals—Helen Reed, .0 but 
; I aud Winner, 0 Slit iJf 10; Kl";i- 
nor, Thomas,, ,1 out ,-of . 2; ;Edgar," M
The Plaid Screen
, BY H. F. SIMPSON
!iscriminaiionr-'
Who can discriminate more 
carefully than the college 
man? To his natural equip­
ment arc added the resources 
of culture and the associa­
tion with great mine!:; cf :;!l 
ages. Such discriscliic.; ion .
leads naturally to the choice 
of Meiachrino, the One Civ,-- 
rette Sold thcWcrid Over.
SEEN AT GENEVA
Upon the advice of the Athletic Editor of the Carnegie Tartan, the Plaid 
Screen took a trip to Geneva, and received, as a result, the following im­
pressions:
Geneva has a good basket ball team.
Said basket ball team is backed up with a good spirit.
Said good spirit is fostered by a good choer leader.
Said cheer leader was in uniform.
Said .uniform was white.
The Varsity basket ball team of Carnegie Tech reached both extremes
of BEST and WORST, andr in the meantime, lilt upon every bit of the inter­
vening ground.
The girls’ basket ball team of Carnogie, to judge from.their performance, 
is in for another defeat—they meet the Wostininster girls this weok, and 
said girls have twice defeated the "fair onos” of Genova.
That stunt as “pulled" by the Geneva students between halves was 
good—everybody gathered in the middle of the floor, around their cheer 
leader, and gave yells, sang songs, and in general "pepped" things up quite 
a bit. (That stunt is not copyrighted, or patented, so why not try it down 
here?)
Beaver Falls is a pretty good town—managod to got my "lunch-hooks"
onto a swell dinner for four bits.
HOW THINGS DO CHANGE- 
ALL WITHIN A WEEK TOO.
Last week we had a good start on "SIXTEEN SUCCESSIVE VIC­
TORIES."
This week we have a good start oil) ‘^SIXTEEN SUCCESSIVE DE­
FEATS.” • ,,I• . . ,, , '
. . ; The Varsity lost!
The Girls’ Varsity lost!
The Freshmen lost!
Can you beat it? No! Wo don't want1 to boat It!
We want to tstop it, and furthormotjo, wo will stop it!
HOW? ’
' By a come-back! The girls say they* will against Westminster. The 
Freshmen have made no statements, but "Bob" Waddell has. The Varsity
fully expects—not in an over-confident way though—to hand Qonova and
West Virginia the short end of tho scores this week.
SO SINCE
They’re optimistic, so aro we! But, tho Plaid Screen says: "Show1 mo,
and then I’ll believe, because ‘soolng js believing’." In other words, got out 
for those few remaining gamos, and help tho team to finish in a blaze or 
glory.
AN OPINION
After seeing basket ball gamos playod undor tho prosont rulos governing 
fouls, as played under tho many different referees and umpires, can’t help 
but admit that said rules are not much good. Thoy are capable of too many 
interpretations. And if interpretatod to tho fullest extent of fliolr moaning, 
the games change from a fast and spirited man’s game, to a slow, dls-splrlted 
and uninteresting game.
Why not let men play undor girls’ rules? Undor somo referees under 
present day ruling, It practically amounts to the same thing!
Bolster, a reforeo in the Tri-State Association, Is a good one. Why? 
Bocause he is not forever "tooting" his whistle. Because lie calls what 
ought to be called, and lets minor Infractions go. IIo (loos not slow-up the 
game Avith his whistlo. Rather, ho lots them play. The average player Is 
enough of a sport to play tho game straight without the referee's whistle 
continually sounding.
Basket ball is a man’s game, and only when playod as such, Is It in­
teresting, full of fight, pep, arid determination (which Is no insinuation upon 
the girls’ game). Nothing makes It NOT a man’s game so much as the pres­
ent day rules, and a referee who enforces them to the last letter.
GENEVA WINS CLOSE 
GAME FROM TARTAN
Carnegie’s Comeback in Sec­
ond Half Fails to 
Overcome Lead
See where "Bert” and “Boh”—you know, Munlmll ami Wtt’ddell—think 
the South is a wonc]erful place.
The Plaid Screen Js yery happy that they agreo with him.
FORE-RUNNERS OF SPRING
Air smells like sprlrig—at least, somebody said It did Sunday.
Track men running around through Schenloy Park In their scarcity of 
clothing.
The Pirate schedule is out—furthermore tho batteries are moving South 
in a day or two.
Penn State tennis men are practicing on an indoor court.
The Florida University tennis team is playing through their schedule.
Bunch of fellows are playing "catch" in the street.
Plenty of snow on the ground—at least I know it was, if it ain’t.”
Remember that Meiachrino is a master 
blend .or me linest Turkish Tobaccos 
as originate.! by Miltiades Meiachrino. 
Egyptian cigarfcttes^ are simply those 
that originated in Egypt. But the to­
bacco is what you want to know about 
— and if it’s Meiachrino — it’s right
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over3
The Lawn Tennis Magazine, subscribed for by the Tennis Club, is now 
available in the Library Hut for those interested. All Tennis men take the 
hint, and read it—that's what it is there for ,and furthermore will teach you 
prospective tennis players much that you do not know. No man is so good 
that he can’t afford to learn something else.
¿»TANDING OF LEAGUES
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Beta Theta Pi ............
Woodlawn Club ........
Kappa Sigma Rlio ...
Alpha Pi ......................
SCobell Hall ..............
Xi fjigma Upsilon ... 
Delta Mu .......*............
Sigma Nu ...................
Iota Sigma Delia
Boss Hall ....................
Delta Upsilon .............
Pi Kappa Alpha .......
Henderson Hall ........
Square and Compass 
Sigma Epsilon Phi ...
NATIONAL LEAGUE
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Kappa Sigma 
Tau Gamma P
Phi Epsilon Pi 
Delta Phi Delta
mes.Won.Lost.Pet.
550l.poo
3301.000
431.750
422.500
:¡12
514.200
20‘>,000
303tooo
mes.Won.Lost.Pet.
4401.000
4401.000
4a1.750
532.«00
422.500
I.14.200
41)4.01)0
404.000
meo.Won.Loat.Pet,
4401,000
541.800
5a2.000
422.500
312.333
514.200
404.000
Carnegie Tech lost a hard game to 
Geneva College last Saturday nigkt 
by tho score of 85-31, Tho gome was 
played in Beaver Falls before a ca­
pacity crowd, who lined all sklea of 
the floor and overflowed in the bal­
cony. The cheering was intense 
throughout, with every good play and 
shot of both sides graciously applaud­
ed. Tho score of tho game indicated 
how closely the game was contested. 
Although at no time after the first 
five minutes of play was Geneva be­
hind in the score, they were not so 
much ahead that tho gamo could have 
been called theirs.
The scoring was dono mostly 
through tho sonsatlonul route, mean­
ing, by way of long shots, for the 
guarding under the baskets was close, 
to say the least. Geneva’s game 
seems to be largely depended up6n 
long shots, and it must bo admitted 
that they are very good in' that, 
though at times her men did manage 
to work the ball up undor the basket 
for a goal, but In tho main they show­
ed a groat weakness In shooting from 
close range—this more than likely 
due to the close guarding of ‘'Buck­
ets" Boll and Alien.
The first half was throughout a lit­
eral walk-away for Goneva, during 
which the Carnoglo Tech passers 
seemed unable to get tho range, nor 
to hold the ball when occasionally tho 
'ball was passed true to a waiting 
Plaid man. This half ended with Gen­
ova on tho long end of a 20-S score.
But In tho socond half, with a 
change In lineup, tho Carnoglo men 
found thomselvos and then procoodod 
to make It moro than Interesting for 
Geneva. Their fight, passing, shoot­
ing and determination took a docided 
junip for tho hotter, and as a result 
they comp.letoly outplayed Goneva, 
but not onough to overcome tho load.
For Goneva, Harr ajul Bpron play­
od tho host game. Harr made flvo 
field goals, while Boron placod throe 
In the baskets. Galbraith was also 
good, dropping two field goals In, and 
made 13 out of 18 fouls good. Tho 
other field goal of Goneva was made 
.by Thomas.
1 Dosey of Carnogie Tech, was tho 
Outstanding star of the gamo. Ho 
nuido 21 out of Carnegie’s .’I I points. 
iH6 did this through seven field goals 
iind 7 9ut of 10 by the free route. IIo 
was all. over tho floor, playing per- 
’liivps one of tho fastest., gamep ever 
seen on the Genova floor. Moran also 
showed up to good advantage, and 
no doubt much will be heard from 
him during tho remaining gamos of 
‘the schodulo. Ho had three field 
goals to his credit. bonldos playing a 
good floor game. Upon replacing Bell 
at center he again performed good, 
getting tho tlp-ofl' on almost all occa­
sions, but strange to fifty, his llp-off 
Boomed to land In the hands of (Ion 
ova men more than In the hands of 
Tech men, which Is surely a tribute to 
tho aggresslvonoss of Geneva. Gibson 
when placed In the gamo at the half 
spoedod up tho game considerably, 
and much credit for the reversal In 
form can bo tracod to him.
Rifle Club Team
Carnegie Plebes Suffer 
First Reverses of Season
Last Tuesday uight., in the Carne­
gie Tech gym, tho Plobe team suf­
fered their first defeat of the sea­
son by the score of 28 to 25.. Tho 
East Liberty Y. M. C. A. ltesorvos 
were the victors and played consist­
ent basket ball throughout the game 
while tho Plebes fought hard and 
did not concede tho game to the win­
ners until the final whistle had 
blown.
Matter and Olos starred for tho 
Plebes, scoring 21 of the Plebes 25 
.points, while French and Yetter 
played the best game for the East 
Liberty Reserves. The lineup:
Carnegie Plebes—25.
• Y" Reserves—28.
Murray ................F................ Friesel
Matter .................F.............. Robinson
Oles .......................C.................. Yetter
Brook ....................G................. Connor
Koppes .................G................ Schwab
Substitutions—MoClose for Schwab, 
Smith for Frlcsel, Friosel for Smith.
Field goals—Murray, Matter 4, Oles 
•1, Friesel 3 Robinson, Yetter, Con­
nor 3. Schwab, Smith.
Fouls—Murray, 2 out. of 0; Matter, 
5 out of 10; Yetter, 10 out of 14.
The Carnegie Plebes dropped a 
close game to the Apollo High School 
on their court last Friday night by 
the score of 41 to 39.
The winner was in doubt until 
the last few minutes of play when 
tho Apollo team managed to forge 
to the front.
Unfortunately tho Plobos were 
without the services of Oles and 
Koppes and for this reason their 
teamwork was not. as good as usual. 
Park and Gardner, who substituted 
for those men, playod exceptionally 
well but tho Plebes woro unable to 
stcvp the Apollo forwards from cag­
ing tho ball.
Murray and Matter playod their 
usual good gamo, while .Tones star­
red for Apollo, scoring 29 of their 
41 points.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISER
Has Busy Week
The Rifle Team was busy last 
week having completod three Im­
portant matches. • They were: a 
prone match with, Yale, a prone and 
standing match with Lehigh, and 
the first stage of the National Iti ilo 
Association Inter-collegiate match.
The »cores for the N. R. A. match 
were:
Stewart .............................. 194
Ham 111 ................................ 192
Grimm ................................ 192
pyi'e'r _____ .....................-188
Ward .....................................185
The scores from Yale and Lehigh 
were not received .but will be an­
nounced later.
Men—Get Here Early
Wc aro Just cleaning op the 
remaining pnlro of Stetson 
Winter Oxfordn.
You'll find several extromoly 
«mart nnd popular lasts. Extra­
ordinary values at our cle.w- 
anoo prloo.
One like llluotratlon In Tnn or 
Dlnok. Perforation» on Vamp 
and Toe. Fibre waterproof 
middle «trip In uoleii.
Clearance gf* n Jt m
Price...........................
"Wo Fitted Foot for Fifty Yearn"
P. LUDEBUEHL &
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
EAST LIBERTY
A total of 311,000 spectators at­
tended the nine games on Yale's 
schedule this year. The gross receipts 
will amount £o well over $300,000.
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARY
I SKIBO INN
•j. Remodeled and 
Enlarged
I CLEAN,
WHOLESOME 
¥ FOOD
X •Served at best prices £
CIGARSCANDY % 
•>
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
West Virginia 11. Princeton 37. 
Bethany 37, Frank fji Morris 12.
¦ Bethany 20, Penn fetate 40.
West Virginia 22, New York U., 30.
West Virginia Wesleyan 29, Mor­
ris Harvey 19.
West Virginia Wesleyan 44, Fair­
mont 23 
Bethany 40, Muskingum 31.
West Virginia 37, WeBt Virginia 
Wesleyan 37.
%ITT JUNIOR %ROM ORCHESTRA
“‘The Ritienhouse”
Saturday, February 25th
THE COUPLE $2.20 HILAND 7300-5C80
TAELES FOE ALL
“THE COLLEGE SHOP"
DAVIES & HUGHES
HATTERS AND MEN’S FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES STREET, OAKLAND NEXT STRAND THEATER |
Successors to (I
ANDERSON’S |-gj
l5i/9/9/5/E/5Jry9J5/5®5JS/5/5/5J5JBJ5/5M5J5J5JS/5/S/5/S/5/SJ5i5JS/5J5/5JS/5J5/B/SJS/5JS/SiS/5/SJ5i5EIBI

---------------------------------------------------

FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1922
ALUMNI PAGE
COLLEGE OF INDUS-INDUSTRIES BOARDMARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAEStudents, to get a reliable fountain 
pen, Eversliarp pencil, "Tech” recog­
nition or seal pin, brief case, school 
ring, personal stationery, etc., should 
call at the Singer Penn and Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
DR. BAKER TO DELIVER ADDRESS 
BEFORE NEW YORK CLANTRIES MEMBERSHIPOF GOVERNORS MEETCLAN NEWS
On Saturday, February 25, Dr. 
Baker, acting president of Carnegie 
Tech, wild be in New York City. 
While there lie will give an address 
to the New York Clan at its annual 
banquet, and will probably return 
the next day.
NOTICE
All visiting Carnegie Tech inonand 
women are cordially Invited Lo'attenti 
the different meetings.
CHARACTER 
BUILDING
NEW YORK CLAN‘FIESTA EN GRANADA" SUR­
PASSES ALL EXPECTATIONS
DO NOT FOHGIOT THE HI« AN­
NUAL PARTY OF THE NK3W YOKK 
CLAN JN THE COLONIAL ROOM 
Oil* THE MAOALPIN HOTEL, SAT­
URDAY, FIOBRUARY 25.
(Continued From Page One.) 
porary revue' of the present day it in­
cluded spectacular ballets, various 
comedies and travesties, sentimental 
songs and dances and the lawful per­
centage of romantic story.
. Mary Lissfelt and C. B-. Reid, the 
romantic leads, and Eunice Osborne, 
as the low-bred trollop, sang; and 
dancpd agreeably: Adelaide: Zeile,
Phil Thorn and Rosit Hertz, contribut­
ed comic characterisations! with the 
method of the latter somewhat ele­
vated by his recent acquaintance1 with 
Moliere. The hit of tilie piece was,, 
however, Jack Willard’s*»' c'onversatiow 
with a "friend” in the hilarious Bert 
Savoyard manner.
The musical features compirisedi 
two sentimental waltzes writteiit by 
Frey, the deft ensemble "Scolding, 
Song” and "The Man of Conse­
quence.” Claire Trobert and Karl 
Heinrich rendered a skillful if abbre­
viated dance pantomime and- tli»? 
“Slave Women” ballet, led by Grey 
McAulejy. was picturesque, if some^ 
what stoical. The most elaborate was 
the stylicized court garden, thoughi 
the keyhole was quite original and I 
interesting. The performance, de- j 
spite the time and occasion was ! 
owift without being rough, as tlie 
bathing woman might say.
Following this, everybody -went tot 
the big tent which had replaced tlied 
exhibition room. There, sitting upon I 
'tlie floor as they enjoyed a most pal­
atable luncheon, they were amused' 
by an interpretation of the “Moorish 
Clbgfr by Harry Hayes and also a 
quaint modern thing called “It’s Not 
the Words That Makes the Movies.” 
Bess Johnson and Burdette Kappes 
starred! ire tMsr being carefully sup­
ported by I-Ioog and Burns.
Then dancing resumed until the 
chimes; sounded the horn* of four when 
the' sun commenced to rise and the 
crowd' tó> break up.
ToO1 much credit cannot be given to 
the committee that worked so untir­
ingly to make this the success that it 
was:. William BXrrlce, general chair­
man, especially, is to be compliment­
ed' upon his capable handling of all 
the many temporary obstacles with 
wliicli' lie was confronted. The rest 
of the general' committee was made 
up; of Cl F-.. Bowers, assistant chair­
man; Vincent' Roy, secretary; F._M. 
Highberger;. treasurer,' and G. A. 
Brink,, assistant treasurer. Everybody 
worked’' hard- and the Plebes are to 
bo given credit for their faithful and 
hard! work.
Early association with a 
strong banking institution 
will not only inculcate thrift, 
but the kindly advice of its 
experienced officers will as­
sist you materially.
BOSTON CLAN
A real treat in store for you—¦•b’e 
sure that'you don't miss it.
Friday evening, February 24th, G. 
L. TIlbrooK, Alumni (Secretary of Car­
negie* Tech Is coining from Pittsburgh 
to met with the Boston Clan. Let us 
show him the real Carnegie Tech 
Hildrlt that prevail« in New England. 
The mooting is to be at Harris I-Iall, 
10 DenconneHK road, Boston. Take 
a 'CheBlnut-HlM-BrooklJne Avenue, or 
a Cyprosa-lpswich -bar from Park 
street to Deaconess road. Harris 
Hall is a concrete building with the 
entrance at the side.
We have planned -the meeting 
from 7:30 to 10:00 p. in., to enable! 
those from out of town to get home 
at a reasonable hour.
Plan to come if it is at all possible. 
Let’s have a rousing meeting.
We welcome the accounts 
of sincere men and women.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist,
Clyde Street, 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
1f A. M. 8 P, r
Sunday School ...........if A, P
'Wednesday evening service 
8 to 5
| Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
¡J Cor. Craig and Forbes 
| M'ec! FargeJ, proprietor | 
| Nearest and Best
| Laundry Agency.
CINCINNATI CLAN
The monthly meting of the Cin­
cinnati Clan was held February 2, 
1922 at the home of G. C. Smith, 1111 
East' McMillan street. Those present 
were: Elizabeth Gitt, Amy Jonap, W.
F. Kely, Phyllis MsMarlin, G. C. 
¡Smith, Mrs. G. C. Smith, Agnes Rus­
sell, Mr. and Mrs. Van Wye, Marion 
Pitchel Weihl, Mary Zarobsky. The 
reading oí the minutes of the moeting 
was dispensed wit.li.
Tho Executive Committee reported 
on the progress made on the revision 
of the "Proposed By-Laws.”
The next meeting will' be held at 
the homo of Miss Amy Jonap, 770 
North Crescént avenue, March 2, 
1922. Meeting adjourned.'
PREPARATIONS COMPLETE
FOR SCIENCE STAG
(Continued From Page One.) 
tra odition talking about tho eats, 
so we can’t say much. Suffice it 
to Kay there WIM be plenty of good, 
eats and smokes for everybody.
Justi twelve men are not coming— 
one Senior who Is sick in bed, and 
eleven Plobos who ¡ loft ju«t two 
weeks ago. /
Bring all- your troubles and cares 
and then forgot them In the enjoy 
mont of the evening.
But be sure to bring tho tag.
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
“The’Church of FrlerrcHy P'eopI«" 
Rev; Robert M'acGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning: Service.......11:00 A.M.
Christian' Ehdeavor .. 7:00 P.M.
Evening Service....... 3:00 P.M.
AI I1 TecH’ students will' receive 
a cordial'welcome here.
8CIENCE BOARD OF
GOVERNORS MEET
The following iumi ml,tl.ee was ap­
pointed to award ' tho George H 
Smil.il scholarship, Rnlipli) Elivenfold, 
chalrauui; Benjamin I-Jantman, P. J. 
DoMuth, H, <1. Nleholfl, L, It. PEoufcs,- 
Thomas Carlltdo as alternato. Alter 
some general discussion- tho , moot­
ing wan adjourned.
HARRISBURG CLAN
A son, Harry Farrel Newcomb, Jr, 
was born on Sunday, February 12 
to Mr, and Mrs. H. I1'. Newcomb 
of Mount Oliver. Mr, Nowcomb was 
a member of tho 1.1)10 Clasu of the 
Science School.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
clothes for the next 
party? Let! the outfitters 
rig you out from head' ta> 
foot;
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
VARIETY IN ARTS EXHIBITHUNTINGTON CLAN
A letter Just received from J. F. 
DeYoung, Secretary of tho Youngs­
town (’Ian gives in dotiiil what! the 
various Clan members are dohig.
Mr, and Mrs. E. R. ltos'ejistoln are 
still located In Charlestown, W. Va. 
IT. F, Brumor also lives in Clmrlos-
LOST
LETTERS AsW'AR,DED AT
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
VJ£t>eZb2Y FsFZAmCHCC9ZW
FâfîÜi Avenue Boot Shog^ 
near-113th Street, New. Yor.k, 
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
(Continued From Page One.) 
represent one hundred points in ath­
letics, including tennis, basket ball 
and' other' gymnasium activities.
Hughes’ Collegiate Six, with New­
man as “Alabam,” in his humorous 
imitations ol! persons of color, with 
songs; jokes; and clever acting, held 
the assembly delighted for so many 
numbers’ that dinner hour threatened 
to vanish. The Collegiate (Six also 
gave instrumental numbers, including 
a two-man,, four-piece "trick” orches­
tra'.
Mpha. Alpha Nu, the honorary pub­
lication fraternity^ announced their 
elections. The ones so honored were: 
Fred' L. Knowles, E. M. Stults, J. 
Franklin; Dave Porterfield, I-I. A. 
Bowman' and J. K. Matter.
Ross Hertz announced that a class 
for clieer-Ieaders will be held at '4:30 
p.. m. Tuesdays in the Exhibition 
Room of the Arts School. All those 
interested are Risked to be present.
Directory of Alumni OrganizationsT>M'cv-
Alumni Federation,—PrcKltifent, J. B. SlirnRiio, '(111; Firet Vico President, Flor- 
onuo Dunlitel, 'IS; Second Vico [»resident, H. S. Wilson, Jr., '15; Third. 
Vico President, M. M. Steen, 'OS; Fourth Vico President, S. G. l.ittle, '10; 
Secretary, Mrs. F. I. Clanton, '0!l; Treasurer, (I. L. Tilbrook, '15.
Board of Governors—Collaite ol' Fine Arts—Edward Crump, Jr., '1C; M. 
M. Steou. ’OS; Frank Haaren; Assoc.
College of Industries—S. G. Little, ’10; J. W. Batman, 20; W..
S. Rabonateiu, ’09.
College of Engineering—R. S. Wilson, Jr., ’15; G. L. Tilbrook, 
’ir,; J. 13. Sprague, ’09.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College—Florence Bechtel, ’18; 
Mrs. F. 1. Gaston, ’09; Edna C. Smith,. ’09.
Officers of Alumni Associations—College of Fine Arts—President,.Edl. Crump,. 
Jr.. ’15; Vice President, H. L. Heilman, ’17; Secretary, Frank H. l-Iaaren, 
Assoc.; Treasurer, Bertha Johnston, ’14'.
Board of Governors—C. O. Rieger, ’13; Dorothea Steinmaclier, ’19;
Frederic McConnell, ’17; Charlotte Smith, ’18; Sarah Owen, Assoc. 
College of Industries—President, S. G. Little, ’10; Vice President,. C. L.
Yost, ’IS; Secretary and Treasurer, J. W. Batman, ’20..
Board of Governors—J. E. Mesta, ’11; L. H. Lee, ’09; W.. Si Rahenstein,. 
’09; F. Miller, ’09; J. B. Ingham, ’17; E. Wendels,. Jx.„ ’20;, C. K. 
Ivoontz, ’17.
College of Engineering—President, R. S. Wilson, ’15; First Vice Presi­
dent, M. L. Orr, ’17; Second Vice President, E. S. Raulw ’15; Secre- 
tary-Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, ’15.
Board of Governors—F. I. Gaston, *09; F. J. Nuttal, ’19;: X. J. Doherty, 
Assoc.; Thor Engstrom, Assoc.; F. T. Floyd, ’15; EdWard F. Hirsch, 
’20.Margaret Morrison Carnegie College—President, Florence; L. BechteL'IS; 
First Vice President, Jane Linderman Cole, ’11; Second Vice Presi­
dent, Sue Smith, ’17; Secretary-Treasurer, Edna C. Smith, ’09. 
Executive Committee—Elizabeth Sheets Gaston, ’09; Rachel Beatty, ’IS; 
Mary Craighead Brinton, ’11; Margaret Griffin, '21; Mary Cummings 
Keaney, ’20. (The officers are members of this Committee.)
Exhibit Shop 
Jenkins Arcade, Pittsburgh.
Does your F. M 
read like this?
scheduleTHINi
i92NW Xn9ZaAC2m9M
and other Metal PencilsIf your burning ambition is to exccl as nn all- 
around society man, you couldn’t have planned 
your evenings better. Such persistence will win 
out over the indolence of the rank and file, for as 
the poet says,
“The heights by great men reached and kept 
Were not attained by sudden flight,
But they while their companions slept 
Were toiling upward in the night.”
But if you intend to make your mark in engi­
neering or business, don’t expect that supremacy 
on the waxed floor will help when you start hunt­
ing a job.
Not that you need swing to the other extreme 
as a “grind” or a hermit. Let’s concede it is all 
right to minor in sociabilities—but certainly it is 
¦only common sense to major in the math and 
sciences and English that: will mean bread and 
butter to you later 011.
Remember this—the harder you work right 
now in getting a grip 011 fundamentals, the easier 
things will come to you when you must solve 
still bigger problems. And il you take it easy 
now—well, look out for the law of compensation.
It’s up to you. While you’ve got the chance, 
seize it, dig in, plug hard, it will pay—111 
cold cash.
WAR PICTURES SHOWN R. O. T. C.T
HE name VENUS is your 
guarantee of perfection. 
( Absolutely crumble.-proof, 
\V n, smooth, and perfectly graded. 
\\ | , 7 DEGREES
M zB soft & black H med. hard
Vjll B soft 2H hard
li F firm. 4H extra hard
Ip HB medium—for general use
I 15c per tube of 12 leads;
$1.50 per dozen tubes 
Ify our dealcrcannoc supply you writeus.
American Lead Pencil Co.
215 Fifth Avc., Dept. , New York 
Ask us about the new 
VENUS EVERPOINTED PENCILS
(Continued From Page One.) 
cassons. The first one to start out 
gets only a short distance when a 
direct hit is made, totally demolish­
ing it and killing the men and the 
horses.
Mile after mile of refugees were 
shown striving to keep ahead of the 
German advance and suffering untold 
hardships, many falling by the way­
side too weary to continue the flight.
Scenes from the three big battles, 
in which the Americans took the ma­
jor part, were shown. The Twenty- 
eighth Division was shown 
in ¦ action in the third bat- 
tl'e of the Marne, where it 
won world renown- for its bravery in 
action. The battles of St. Miliiel and 
the Meuse-Argonne Forest, at wlii'eh 
General Pershing and the Ameriean 
doughboy showed their ' ability to 
fight, and the action of the Third' Di­
vision at Chateau Thierry was both 
magnificent and terrible. To see long 
lines of uniformed men making their 
way across open fields is magnificent 
but to see them fall before machine 
gun fire is awful and terrible.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
Newest Creation'/ Published ht 'v
tho interest of Elec­
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what- 
t ever helps the 
\ Industry.
Peppermint fla- 
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
“melts in your 
mouth,” leaving fi 
thè deiiciously / 
flavored gum f 
center to aid g 
digestion, \ 
brighten teeth \ 
and soothe \ 
mouth and throat«
Astern. Electric Company
Maybe it’s against all cam fins tradition, but 
some men who stood in the upper third in their 
class and who entered this Company years ago 
have since become its executives.
Virgn
rZ9bmg
