VOL. 42—No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1948
;________________ 7______________________•__________After Six Long Years!
Tartans Win From 
Grove City, 7-0
Johnny Luchok Scores Plaid TD 
On 51-yard Dash In First Period
By Bill Dorn
GROVE CITY, PA., November 20—Carnegie Tech’s fight­
ing Tartans ended the longest winless streak in the school’s 
football history with a stunning 7 to 0 upset over a heavily 
favored Grove City eleven here this afternoon.
Playing flawless ball throughout the contest, the victory 
starved Plaid team pounded their previously once-beaten op-
“ *ponents into submission with a 
quick score early in the game, 
and then clung greedily to their 
one touchdown lead.
Grove City 
Summary
Steve Gregorek (21) Carnegie left end carries the ball on an end-around play. In the back­
ground are Johnny Luchok (35) and Nick Simcic (25) of Carnegie. The Grove City player Gregorek 
has just rounded is Bill Hutchison (35).
Victory Echoes 
Over Campus
Victory Rally Held 
Monday Morning
BULLETIN
Approximately 2000 Carnegie 
Tech students massed yesterday 
morning in front of Fine Arts for 
a victory celebration, despite the 
fact that there was no official dis­
missal of classes.
Coaches Bill Donohoe and Wal­
ter Burns gave short talks, as did 
captain Gerry Meyers, while the 
Kiltie band, putting in an ap­
pearance in full dress, supplied a 
musical background.
Completing their own rally, the 
Tartan supporters went on the 
march, joining Pitt rooters who 
were holding their won rally at 
Soldiers and Sailors memorial. 
Both groups then adjourned to 
Flagstaff hill with the bands of 
both schools. There the Tartan 
football squad was introduced be­
fore the rally ended just before 
noon.* * *
Shouts and screams of victory 
were echoed over the campus 
Saturday as news of Carnegie 
Tech’s first pigskin success since 
1942 filtered into dormitories and 
fraternity houses. Automobile car­
avan raids to Grove City and fra­
ternity celebrations typified the 
spirit of victory which pervaded 
the campus. Anticipating the dis­
missal of Monday classes, some 
dormitory and fraternity residents 
left early for an extended Thanks­
giving vacation.
Capture of the goal posts which 
sheltered CIT’s touchdown suc­
cess was accomplished in a post- 
mid-night try by fraternity and 
dormitory men to Grove City.
Fraternity parties exploded into 
victory celebrations on Saturday 
night and impromptu outbursts 
were heard throughout the night 
over the campus.
Upset Tradition Is Revived 
In Surprise Win Over Grovers
Donohoe Recalls Surprise 1926 Victory Over
Notre Dame As Gridders Wait To Close Season
Players gathered around their coach for the final pep talk of the 
season. It was hard for both coach and players. When you haven’t 
won a game for six years you can’t think of much to say. Twenty- 
five straight games without a win just about uses up all the spirit 
and pep of any football team. Tak-*
CARNEGIE TECH
Ends—Williamson, Wilson, Fougere,
Dougherty, Gregorek.
Tackles—Hoffman, Meyers, Keats, Mad­den.
Guards—Wiseman, Stovicek, Norton.
Center—Windish.
Backs—Oberg, Armour, Minnich, Lu­
chok, Simcic, Sommers, Magnifico, Tra- bits, Kenney, De Giovanni.
GROVE CITY
Ends—Hamilton, Bish, Jones, Wendel- 
boe.
Tackles—Hutcheson, Carlson, Stover, 
Benson.
Guards—Erickson, Hiack, Sopher,
Strain.
Centers—Kelly, Culver.
Backs—Shankle, Elwood, Place, Reid, Dickson, Hummel, Winland, Foster, tJe- marco, McClymonds.
Score by Quarters 
Carnegie 7 0 0 0—7
Grove City 0 0 0 0—0
Touchdown—Luchok. Point after 
touchdown—Kenney (placement).
ing the field as heavy underdogs 
in your final game of the season— 
well, their just doesn’t seem much 
to say.
But Bill Donohoe had plenty to 
say. He must have been reminisc­
ing back 22 years to 1926 and the 
final game of that season when he 
and another Tartan football team 
were standing in the Forbes field 0>dressing room as their great coach 
Wally Steffen prepped them for a 
game with one of Knute Bockne’s 
great Notre Dame teams. Donohoe 
and his teammates promptly went 
out and brought back one of the 
greatest upsets in the annals of 
football, trouncing the Fighting 
Irish 19-0.
CIT’s Kiltie band had just be­
gun to play “Fight For The Glory 
of Carnegie” when Donohoe 
launched his speech. He empha­
sized how Carnegie had always 
been a great upset team in the 
past. He also pointed out that 
Grove City was one of the leading 
class B football teams in the Pitts­
burgh district. That was about all 
that Coach Bill Donohoe brought 
out at the moment but the players 
rushed on the playing field with 
“Fight for the glory ...” still 
ringing in their ears.
Two hours and twenty-seven 
minutes later the same dressing 
room was a mad bedlam with 
mud-packed jerseys and towels 
flying through the air. The play- 
[Cotinued on page 4, col. 3]
Congratulations!
Captain Gerry Meyers, halfback Johnny Luchok who scored 
touchdown that ended long winless streak for Tartans, and coach 
Bill Donohoe flash victory smiles after their return from Grove City. 
• * * * » *
“I never felt better about winning a football game in my en­
tire career.” These words coming from Coach Bill Donohoe just 
about signify the importance of last Saturday’s closing game win 
over Grove City. ? —
Donohoe went on to say that 
“we should be able to go on from 
here next season, now that the 
ice is broken.” He was very high 
in his praise of the players for 
“the wonderful way they had 
come out and worked faithfully
Carnegie Day Stories, 
Other News On Page 3
week after week despite the very 
discouraging games they had been 
losing.”
About the winning touchdown 
play Donohoe had this to say: “It 
was a fullback spinner play. We 
have been using it all season but 
this is the first time we have had 
anybody fast enough in the full­
back spot to take advantage of the 
quick opening.”
He went on to add that the ad­
ditional half hour practice time 
was a big factor in the victory. 
Extra conditioning which was de­
rived from the half hour proved 
[Continued on page 4, col. 1 ]
Speedy Johnny Luchok car­
ried across the only score on a 
51-yard jaunt over the mud laden 
field after only five minutes of 
playing time had elapsed. But it 
was the stout Tartan line and 
Johnny Williamson’s driving 
punts which finally preserved the 
victory.
Time and again the big line 
surged forward to stave off Grove 
City threats just as the home 
team’s offense seemed to be start­
ing to roll. Hard-hitting Jack Shan­
kle and passer Bill Reid were 
completely throttled by the fast 
charging Tartans who yielded 
ground grudgingly.
Plays Last Game
Deciding factor in the contest, 
however, was Williamson’s fine 
kicking. The tall, rangy end con­
sistently set the Grovers back on 
their heels with soaring boots 
which averaged over 40 yards per 
try despite the wind and mud. 
Together with Don Armour and 
Ronnie Hoffman, the veteran ter­
minal was playing his last game 
for Carnegie and bowed out of the 
local scene with one of the finest 
performances of his career.
In the opening moments, Car­
negie struck deep into Grove City 
territory with lightning-like sud­
denness. On the first scrimmage 
play, Armour flipped a screen 
pass to Arne Oberg who moved 15 
yards to the 40 yard line behind 
mass interference.
A penalty netted a second first 
down, but Nick Simcic fell inches 
short in an attempt to register a 
third one on the enemy 30 yard 
line. With their own attack bog­
ging down in the mud, the Grov­
ers were forced to punt to the 
Tartan 40. Simcic picked up nine 
yards through the line.
Lnchok Scores
On the next play, fullback John­
ny Luchok found a hole over cen­
ter and broke for the left side­
lines. Picking up blockers along 
the way, the big freshman broke 
into the clear at the 30, and with 
a tremendous burst of speed out­
distanced the opposing backs to 
gallop 51 yards into the end zone. 
Reliable Wes Kenney split the up­
rights with a perfect placement to 
give Carnegie a seven point ad­
vantage.
With a stiff wind facing them 
throughout the second and third 
quarters, the Plaid gridders were 
forced onto the defensive. Jack 
Windish, playing 60 minutes at 
center, halted two Red and White 
threats with pass interceptions, 
[Continued on page 4, col. 5J

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANi ¦¦¦¦    ¦   — ¦TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 194!,Carnegie Tartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In­stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................. Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ...................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor .................................................. Burton L. Epstein
News Editor—Robert Kubiak, Sports Editor—Paul Offer- 
mann, Makeup Editor—Ralph Painter, Art Editor—Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising Manager—Arthur G. Zuch, Cir­culation Manager—Lewis S. Sternberg.Copy Editor—Pat Petrick, Headline Editor—Myra-Jane Bar­
ry, Proof Editor—John Braun, Personnel Asst.—Richard B. Mitchell, Asst. Business Manager—Herbert Stone, Asst. Ad­vertising Manager—Malcolm B. Samakow, Features Assist­ant—Frank Roth, Chief Reporters—John K. Fockler, Wil­
liam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Ruby Weisberg, Chief Sports Reporter—Bill Dorn, Chief Pho­tographer—William D. Benswanger.Copy Staff—John Bomman, Charles Rainsalo, Mary Cauf- 
field, Robert Cloud, Analee Gelman, Jane Lawton, Dianne Stitt, Features Staff—A. Starke Drischell, Richard Drisko, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson, Edward VonHalle.Senior Reporter—Burt Kimmel.Reporters—Jo Crisanti, Frances Hamborsky, Angela Pollis, 
Cub Reporters—Sally Bachman, Judy Block, Alan Blotcky, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Kams, Henry Klugh, Edward Koos, Shirley Levin, William Lyell, Sue MacFadden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb, Nancy Sitler, 
Michael Stavish, Anita Tabellini, Joann Williams, Nancy 
Will.Sports Staff—Robert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren 
Lithgow, Frederick Lunt.Photography Staff—Richard Deininger.
Business Staff—Morty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee Goldenfeld, Dave Steiner, Bob Powers, Mitch Bakon. Makeup Staff—A1 Bader.Typists—Elizabeth Asche, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD­VERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro­vided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo­
ber 21, 1918.
Editorials
Victory!
It’s been a long, long time.
Yes, since the last time this campus erupt­
ed as it did last weekend has really been a 
long time. If one were inclined to be optim­
istic he might say that all the Carnegie stu­
dents need to really break out in school spirit 
is a few football victories.
We are certainly proud of the school and 
of the team, and we earnestly send along our 
hopes for a long string of victories. Now, 
that the team and the student body have 
“found” themselves we hope that they will 
lend one another strength and really bring 
back some of that spirit we have been talk­
ing about but not realizing for lo these many 
years.
Council’s Job
Although some of its members feel that they 
don’t have the opportunity to do many of the 
things they would like to do, Student Council has 
no troubles or weaknesses which could not be 
removed if the members spent a little more time, 
effort, and thought attacking them. Too many 
Councilmen devote themselves to Council only 
one hour a week.
Their responsibilities do not end at that, and 
the student body should not be content when 
they make that the extent of their activity. 
The majority of Student Council work should 
be done in committee meetings away from the 
weekly general session. In fact, most of the con­
secutive work that has been done in Council in 
the recent past has been done in this manner, 
but there has unfortunately been far too little 
of it.
The real job of the full Student Council should 
be to act as a guide for the work of committees 
and as a general planner and policy setter for 
all student functions. The debates that now oc­
cupy so much time could easily be held in com­
mittee meetings at which all important points 
of view might be presented.
Committee reports, with appropriate minori­
ty reports, could then be presented to the whole 
group with all relevant facts clearly and con­
cisely presented. A few questions might clear 
up any doubtful points and a vote could be 
taken. If necessary preliminary reports would 
make it possible for Council members to suggest 
untried methods of approach to the problem, 
which the committee could then carry out.
A steering committee, consisting of the presi­
dent and two or three aides, should plan the 
meeting in rough detail. Matters then might be 
routed through the proper committees, thus pre­
venting such unfortunate happenings as for in­
stance, the election to and removal from the 
Publications committee of the Citcommentator, all 
in a period of eight days. Such actions only lower 
Student Council in the eyes of the school.
Though Council has many thorns in its side, 
one of the worst is, unfortunately, the organi- 
ation of the group itself.
Handcuffed !
On Stage
By Gene Feist
History states that Shakespeare’s “A Mid- 
summer-Night’s Dream” was either written for 
the festival of St. John, (Midsummer’s Night) or 
for the wedding celebration of the nuptials of 
the Earl of Derby and Elizabeth Vere. The play, 
as presented by the CIT drama department in the 
Carnegie theatre, captures the pictoral splendor 
that must have been evident at the English Court, 
at Greenwich in 1594. The present production is 
lavish in bright costumes and splendid sets.
Universality
Great tragedy of the past is more meaningful 
to us than comedy. This is perhaps due to the 
fact that tragedy strives for the “universal” while 
good comedy is best when topical and contempor­
ary. It is difficult today to determine which lines 
of “A Midsummer-Night’s Dream” referred to the 
personalities for whom the play was presented. 
Certainly many of the scenes were meant to 
amuse and flatter the royal audience. When 
presented at the Globe theatre, the groundlings 
laughed heartily at the puns and the clown­
ing of the “mechanics.”
To make the play palatable to modern aud­
iences, it is necessary to suit the temper of the 
times. Henry Boettcher in directing the play 
has emphasized its farcical aspects.
Like Trumpets
Under Mr. Boettcher’s direction the finest 
elements of theatre were molded into a charm­
ing and pleasing whole. Lighting, special effects, 
sets, costuming, and acting, allied to recapture 
the fragile stuff of Shakespeare’s moon-drenched 
play. The play’s poetry is like the clarion call of 
silver trumpets. The forest scenes are made 
visible to the audience by sharp, brief flashes 
of moonlight from behind fleeting clouds.
With Oberon’s lines—
“I know a bank where the wild thyme blows, 
Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows, 
Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine, 
With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine...” 
the audience is transported to a magic world 
where Puck can “put a girdle round about the 
earth in forty minutes” and Titania can fall in 
love with an ass.
It is thought that when the play was first 
produced at the English Court, little children 
acted and danced the roles of the fairies. At the 
Carnegie theatre the fairies were marionettes, 
brilliantly designed and executed by William 
Ryan and Paul Trautvetter.
Costumes
The costumes of the Athenian lords and 
ladies were vivid but meretricious compared to 
the warmth and generosity of the well-worn 
costumes of the “mechanics.” Memories of past 
accomplishments and poetry cling to traditional 
sixteenth and seventeenth century costumes. These 
costumes seem aware of the piercing beauty of 
Shakespeare’s lines and hesitate to detract from 
them.
The actor’s voice is perhaps his most import­
ant instrument. The plays of Shakepeare require
clear, precise voices, capable of 
reciting the best of English poetry. 
All of the plays should be con­
sidered a challenge and the means 
by which perfect voices can be 
trained and tested. If much of the 
poetry in “A Midsummer-Night’s 
Dream” was not clearly interpret­
ed, it must be remembered that 
the actors are in training and the 
creation of a role in such a play 
is a great task.
The drama department is to 
be commended for producing “A 
Midsummer-Night’s Dream” in a 
handsome manner and for bring­
ing laughter and pleasure to aud­
iences of CIT students and resi­
dents of Pittsburgh.
Letter To The Editor
‘Athletic Policy 
Is Sensible’
Editor, the Tartan,
I’ve been a cynical young man 
on the subject of college presi­
dents until I read the open let­
ter of Dr. Doherty in the Tartan. 
His statement of Tech’s athletic 
policy seems to have much of the 
good horse sense that’s lacking in 
so many of the leaders of “higher 
institutions.”
A certain university here in 
the Southwest just spent three 
million dollars to increase the 
seating capacity of its football 
stadium while many of the stu- 
dent-veterans of this campus are 
still living in “chicken-shack” hut­
ments and much of the scientific 
and technical research program 
of its teaching staff remains un­
subsidized.
I realize that most of the pro­
ponents of “a winning team” do 
not really believe that this alone 
is the measure of college spirit.
However, with due apologies to 
Will Rogers, I must say all I 
know, I read in “The Tartans sent 
to me here in Texas, and I cer­
tainly get the feeling that I could 
say a word which might possibly 
impress some students—that the 
greatest thing they will have ob­
tained by being a Tech graduate 
is not the victories on the grid­
iron ten years previously, but 
rather the tools which with which 
they can better themselves and 
society, and also the never-to-be- 
forgotten associations of men on 
the staff who are or will become 
eminent in their respective fields.
I am proud that my alma mater 
has a president who realizes that 
football is an avocational sport 
and not a subsidized profession 
or a propaganda machine. Yours 
truly for more straight-shootin’ 
’n winning’ college student-pres- 
ident teams.
Stuart G. Ballin
Chem. 1938.
Adds Refreshment 
To Every Occasion
The Pause That Refreshes
Ask for it either way ... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.'
Plus State Tax
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY ÍY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
O 1948, Th« Coca-Cola Company v

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
John C. Metcalfe To Speak 
In Carnegie Theatre Nov. 30
Reporter Will Answer The Question, 
6iWhere Are We Going In Foreign Affairs?
John C. Metcalfe, one of the 
nation’s outstanding reporters, 
will be the speaker at the first 
assembly after Thanksgiving,
Tuesday, November 30 in the 
Carnegie Theatre. He will seek 
to answer the question, “Where 
Are We Going in Foreign Af­
fairs?”
Relating his experiences inside 
Germany and the problem of 
peace with that nation in the try­
ing diplomatic situation among 
the great powers, Mr. Metcalfe 
will describe some of the back- 
of-scenes struggle for world lead­
ership between the United States 
and Soviet Russia.
A newspaperman for 21 years 
and a former correspondent for 
Time and the New York Herald 
Tribune, he was among the first 
to focus the nation’s attention on 
subversive activities when he 
spent six months in the German- 
American Bund disguised as a 
storm trooper. In 1938 he served 
as agent in charge of the Nazi 
and Fascist investigations of the 
House Un-American committee.
99
John Biewener 
Added to SCC 
At Last Meeting
Carnegie Day Address, 
Other Topics Discussed 
At Thursday’s Meeting
Thistle editor John Biewener 
wasn’t there, but he did an excel­
lent job of backing into a position 
on the Student Conference com­
mittee at its dinner meeting last 
Thursday with President Doherty.
The addition of Biewener to the 
committee was only one of a great 
variety of topics which were dis­
cussed in one of the fastest-paced 
of recent committee meetings. 
None of the fireworks which 
marked the last meeting, at which 
the football situation was thor­
oughly aired, graced this amiable 
gathering.
Among the topics discussed were 
the president’s Carnegie Day ad­
dress, the special showing of “A 
Midsummer Night’s Dream” for a 
group of prominent Pittsburghers 
on Wednesday evening, November 
17, vacations from school, the 
school’s library program, the 
FPHA dormitories, and the pos­
sibility of adding a current affairs 
course to the Social Relations pro­
gram.
Student Council President Vince 
Prus noted that the Thistle edi­
tor’s name had appeared as a 
member of the Conference com­
mittee in the APO activities direc­
tory which recently appeared. Al­
though the Thistle editor had 
never before been a member, it 
was the committee’s opinion that 
he should be added.
Since his annual Carnegie Day 
“State of CIT” message was de­
signed to conform to student in­
terests as much as possible, Dr, 
Doherty sought suggestions from 
members of the committee as to 
what subjects the student body 
wculd be most interested in hear­
ing discussed. Among the sugges­
tions given was that of pointing 
out and clarifying the long range 
plans and aims of the school.
Dorm Council President Gerry 
Meyers asked the reason for the 
previous evening’s special per­
formance of the current Carnegie 
Theatre attraction for special 
guests of the school.
Dr. Doherty explained the spe­
cial showing as a means of ac­
quainting the people of Pittsburgh With the school, with the drama
LCantinucd on page S3
Carnegie 
Calls, Dr.
Day F eatures 
Doherty’s Talk
JOHN C. METCALFE 
John C. Metcalfe, who will 
speak to the all-school assembly 
to be held next Tuesday.
About Tomorrow
Tomorrow Carnegie Tech 
will have only a half-day of 
classes. Students will follow 
their Saturday schedule. This 
means that no classes will be 
held in either Fine Arts or 
Margaret Morrison.
Thea Braider, 
Robert Sinclair 
Receive Prizes
Total Of 158 New 
Members Are Called 
By Four Honoraries
Calls for new members by four 
campus honoraries keynoted the 
celebration today of Carnegie Day 
in the Carnegie Music hall. In 
addition, two CIT students receiv­
ed formal recognition of special 
awards. Fraternity and sorority 
scholarship cups were presented 
from Interfraternity council and 
both the Carnegie and Pittsburgh 
Panhellenic associations.
Thea Braider, sophomore in the 
music department of Fine Arts, 
received the Mortar Board award 
for the woman student maintain­
ing the highest scholastic average 
during her freshman year. Her 
factor for the year 1947-48 was 
3.89. Sylvia Davis, Mortar 
Board’s president, made the pre­
sentation.
Robert Sinclair, mechanical en­
gineering junior and member of 
Beta Theta Pi fraternity, was 
awarded the Faville-Ellerton 
alumni prize for the student com­
posing the best essay on a prob­
lem in governmental and civic af­
fairs in the student’s home com­
munity. Provost Elliot Smith an-
Council Defeats Hare System; 
Deadlock Seen On Bylaw Vote
Johnson Explains Improvements For Council; 
Citcommentator Off Publications Committee
By Bert Kimmel
“Both the fraternities and the independents should gain under 
the Hare system . . . This system is the only one which applies fair 
and democratic principles to the election of Council members,” 
Arbon Lang told Council two weeks ago. Soon after his statement,
¦ ¦ ¦ ..........¦¦¦ however, the Hare
defeatedStudent Addresses
Any student whose correct 
school address the school does 
not have should report this ad­
dress immediately to the Pub­
lic Relations office, IH 246, so 
that it may be included in the 
“C” book.
ODKAdds 
Four Men
Initiation Banquet 
Will Be Held Dec. 10
With the addition of four names 
to the list of men being honored, 
Omicron Delta Kappa, senior 
men’s activities and leadership 
honorary, has completed its call 
for this semester.
The men newly elected to the 
national honorary, who will join 
the seven pledges announced in 
the last issue of the Tartan are:
Norman Franz, electrical, pres­
ident of Eta Kappa Nu, Theta 
Tau, president of AIEE, Delta Up- 
silon.Jack Johnson, management, 
president of Kappa Sigma, Stu­
dent Council, Y-Cabinet, Men’s 
Glee club.
Jim McGiffin, chairman of the 
executive board of Scotch and 
Soda club, Student Conference 
committee.
Gerry Meyers, football captain, 
Men’s Dorm council, president, 
Student Council, Student Confer­
ence committee.
Initiation of the eleven newly 
elected members will take place 
on Friday, December 10 just pre­
ceding the initiation banquet 3t 
toe University club.
system was 
in a very close vote, 
which seems to indicate a Coun­
cil deadlock when the final vote 
on the bylaws is taken.
Last week Tartan editor Rob­
ert Johnson appeared before 
Council to explain more speci- 
ficially the suggestion to improve 
Council that he made in a recent 
editorial. In his comments John­
son included a list of problems 
that would be worthwhile for 
Council to investigate and at­
tempt to solve.
Among the other business trans­
acted last week was the reallot­
ment of funds for the Kiltie band 
and the Men’s Glee club. The Tri- 
Delt sorority was given permis­
sion to sell perfume on campus to 
bolster their scholarship fund.
Two weeks ago the question of 
all-school' publications arose and 
the Citcommentator was includ­
ed on the Publications committee 
with the other publications. In the 
following meeting Councilman 
Bennard Perlman moved that 
several fraternity publications al­
so be considered all school pub­
lications. The motion was with­
drawn with the condition that an­
other vote be taken on the Cit­
commentator. On the revote the 
Citcommentator was excluded 
from the publication committee.
Besides the vote on the Hare 
system several other articles of 
the bylaws of Council’s new con­
stitution were ratified two weeks 
ago. The remaining articles were 
approved last week but the final 
vote, requiring a three-fourths 
majority to approve the bylaws as 
a whole has not been taken.
Since the vote approving the 
present balloting system for the 
new bylaws was passed by only 
one vote in the informal voting,
[Continued on page I]
Official Assembly
Ratification of Uie revised 
Student Council constitution as 
provided for in Article X, Sec­
tion I of the constitution will 
be held at a general assembly 
in the Carnegie theater Tues­
day, December 7, at 12:30. A 
two-thirds vote of the full time 
students present at this assem­
bly is necessary for ratification.
Revised sections of the con­
stitution will be posted on the 
official bulletin boards during 
the week of December 1-7.
A previous announcement 
that the assembly would be 
held on November 30 was in 
error.
Stan Siegel Elections Chairman
nounced the award. Sinclair’s
composition, entitled “Milwau­
kee, the Shell of a City,” gained 
for him the $50 prize.
Scholarship cups were present­
ed by President Doherty to Beta 
Theta Pi fraternity from Interfra- 
temity council, and to Alpha Ep­
silon Phi and Delta Delta Delta 
sororities from the Carnegie and 
Pittsburgh Panhellenic organiza­
tions, respectively.
Following are the names of the 
students called:
Tau Beta Pi, national engineering hon­orary, called 26 new members. Honor juniors are Richard Cutkosky, George Pugh, Barry Rowles, Douglas Shaffer, and Robert Sinclair. New senior members 
are William Aiello, John Curley, Harold 
Davis, Richard Drisko: Alan Forsythe, Robert Frantz, Norman Franz, Lynford Gilbert, Paul Hanna, Richard Huntoon, William Knepper, Donald Lessig, Carl Levy, David Lide, David Luckey, Pat­
rick McCurdy, Thomas McVetty, Ger­ald Meyers, Ernest Snoyer, and Thomas 
Stelson. Robert Charpie, a graduate stu­dent, was also called.
Scabbard and Blade, honorary mili­
tary fraternity, tapped Jay Atman, Paul Stettler, William deVos, Zelko Kruzic, 
Charles Howell, Bruce Schmid, Francis Becker, Alan Morten, Robert Anguish, Norbert Kurty, Edward Bakanic, John Price, Ivan Sturman, John Stewart, Rog­er Bomeman, Warren Johnson, Leo Frey, Robert Arelt, Frank Brown, David Kobernuss, William Clarke, and Gwen McDade.
Pi Mu Epsilon, mathematics honorary, 
pledged 35, including faculty and ad­ministration members Director Webster Jones, Director Robert Mehl, Dean J. 
C. Warner and Professors Abraham Charnes, William Cooper, George Handel- man, Frederic Mavis, Carl Monrad, Fran­cis Murnaghan, Frederick Seitz, Benja­
min Teare, Jr., and Dennistoun Ver Planck.
Graduate students selected include Meyer Achter, Robert Charpie, Leslie Frost, Walter Gaddis, Thomas Gibian, 
Victor Morello, John Pittenger, Mar­
guerite Raboy, Sol Raboy, Raymond Sedney, and Rolf Winter. New under­graduate members include seniors Rob­
ert Burke, Harold Davis, Lois Fritchey, 
John Grace, Irvin Klimaszewski and 
Aubrey Miqjselwait, and juniors Rich­ard Cutkosky, Richard DiPrima, Robert McKelvey, Douglas Shaffer, William Si­mon and Frank Smith, Jr.
Phi Kappa Phi, national senior scholas­tic honorary, honored 75 neophytes. Au­
brey Mickelwait, John Grace, David Lide, Jr., William Hasek, Thomas Stelson, David McKinley, David Luckey, Francis Prus, Patrick McCurdy, Carl Levy, Frank 
Pittman, Jr., Richard Drisko, George Baldwin, Irving Zacher, Albert Grin- dell. Thomas Bailey III, David Sapper, Harold Davis, Thomas Hall, Robert Johnson, George Zenk, Robert Frantz, 
Lynford Gilbert, Paul Hanna, Richard 
Herrmann, Albert Pranatis, Jack Sum­merville, Willis Boothe, John Curley, 
John Kost, Jr., Robert Burke, Frank Lee, William McLean, Sylvester Ulicny, Earl Hohman, William McVeigh, Jr., 
Walter Smith, Frank Wagner, Robert Carr, William Potter, William DeWald, Burton Gibbons, Paul Osisek, and Rob­
ert Paustian were called from the Col­lege of Engineering and Science.Called from Fine Arts were Aureen
[Continued on Page 8]
Tickets For 
“Cherry Orchard”
“The Cherry Orchard” by 
Anton Chekov will be the 
next production of the Car­
negie theater. Tickets for the 
play will be available in the 
drama department office De­
cember 6 at 4:00 p. m.
Nine performances will be 
given, including a Friday 
matinee, during the run of the 
play from December 9 to 16. 
Each student may receive one 
ticket upon the presentation of 
a registration eajrd, although 
one student mayV present two cards.
Address Given 
In Music Hall
President Discusses 
Variety Of Subjects
“I am very happy about it,” 
said President Doherty today 
about the newest of the “New 
Developments at CIT” in his Car­
negie Day address. He was refer­
ring of course, to Saturday’s foot­
ball victory over Grove City.
Although his talk was concerned 
primarily with the more serious 
side of the school, the students in 
the audience were still glowing 
over the grid win.
Keeping his remarks on the 
technical aspects of education to 
a minimum, the president clari­
fied the relationships among the 
graduate students, undergraduate 
student, and research programs of 
the school, explaining that “They 
are like the three legs of a stool. 
One cannot stand without the oth­
er two.”
Other topics Dr. Doherty dis­
cussed were the construction and 
remodeling in various campus 
buildings, the development of 
school policy as related to the in­
dividual students, the recent pro­
gress on the Carnegie cyclotron, 
and off-campus public recognition 
that has been given to students 
and faculty, members.
C-Club Dance 
Is December 4 
In Men’s Gym
An informal dance to raise funds 
for the general improvement of 
athletic equipment at CIT will be 
sponsored by the Varsity “C” club 
on December 4 in the men’s gym. 
Bill Leroy’s orchestra will play.
During the dance the Phi Kappa 
fraternity will present the Joe 
Pash Memorial cup to the out­
standing Carnegie football player 
of the 1948 season.
Tickets may be purchased in 
Skibo, or from any member of the 
Varsity “C” club.
Kiltie Band 
Calendars On 
Sale Dec. 1
1949 Kiltie Calendars, previewed 
at Homecoming when they were 
sold to alumni, will go on general 
sale to the student body on De­
cember 1.
With the purpose of raising 
money for the purchase of new 
uniforms and instruments, the 
campaign will be highlighted by 
the appearance of several ensem­
bles from the band in Skibo and 
elsewhere on campus.
William Waller, chairman of the 
committee in charge of selling the 
Calendar, hopes to be able to cover 
all students and faculty by selling 
directly through booths in Skibo 
and through other members of the 
band in dormitories and frater­
nity houses.
The calendars will be available 
both in the white-covered edition 
and the red leatherette-covered 
edition selling for $1.00 and $1.50 
respectively. With both editions 
containing a year’s calendar and 
numerous pictures of the band as 
well as recent snapshots of the 
campus, the new Kiltie Calendar is 
designed to be a solution to the Christmas gift problem.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1948
Tartans End Long Losing Streak
Williamson’s Punts Keep 
Grove City Eleven At Bay
‘Paul Offermann’s'
Sportscope
Fighting Tartan 
Grid Squad Really 
Deserved This Win
All was forgiven last Saturday afternoon. The trials and 
tribulations which players, coaches, and students have gone 
through since 1942 w’hen Carnegie’s football warriors last 
tasted victory were cast aside amid wild shouts of joy.
We would like to extend our very sincere congratulations 
to the coaches and players. Against almost overwhelming 
odds, both on and off the field, they refused to give up at any 
time. Monday after Monday they would be down at practice 
despite the consistent losses, on the preceeding Saturdays. 
Victory was in their grasp in the first game with Wash­
ington university out in St. Louis. After leading for nearly 
three quarters and then losing out, this would seem to be more 
than enough to crush the spirit of most teams. Again in the 
Case game victory slipped through their hands in the final 
minutes.
When food poisoning knocked them out of the Oberlin 
game it appeared as if fate was just destined to keep them 
away from the first win. It took a near perfect game on the 
part of the Tartans to eke out the win over Grove City. But 
most of all, it took guts! In Bill Donohoe’s words “the fellows 
really deserved to win.”
Now that they have that first win under their belts and 
with all but three of this year’s players returning, the Plaid 
should begin to roll in high gear next season.
To the administration, the victory and celebration can have 
but one meaning: Carnegie Tech students want a football team. 
The fact that the students went near crazy over a win against 
a team ,like Grove City should dispel any silly notion which 
some school officials may be entertaining abou:t our wanting 
to go back to the “big time.”
We want a winning football team—a team that can prac­
tice and play under the best possible conditions. Despite re­
cent changes for the betterment of these conditions, there are 
still some very important steps which coud be taken to im­
prove our chances against an even better brand to compe­
tition than we meet now.
Congratulations
[Continued from page 1] 
very valuable when the Plaid was 
called upon in the late stages of 
the game to hold the Grovers des­
perate attack from getting away.
Walt Burns was all smiles. He 
was walking from player to play­
er reminding them of the victory 
banquet which he was giving the 
team at the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association on Monday night. A1 
Irwin could just say “Fine, fine” 
as he wandered around the dress­
ing room. The other coaches, 
George McMillan and Verge Can- 
tini were finding it hard to be­
lieve, as were many of the play­
ers.
Buddy Overend was sitting back 
and enjoying the antics of the 
players as most of them walked 
off with their brand new jerseys
as souvenirs of the victory. But, 
as Buddy said, “It’s been a long 
time between meals.”
First thing that Captain Gerry 
Meyers said after the final whistle 
blew ending the game was, “It’s 
about time we won.”
When Johnny Luchok returned 
to the bench after sprinting 51- 
yards for the only touchdown of 
the game he said he was running 
“awfully slow” and didn’t under­
stand why the Grove City second­
ary never caught up to him.
Floyd Wiseman and Gerry Mey­
ers didn’t seem to agree with Lu- 
chok’s statement though because 
as they put it, “After we threw 
our blocks on that play we could 
feel a swish of air as Luchok went 
through.” . '
like cream nair tonics?
(
contains / 
Viratol* ////
Æ’
gives your hair 
[>that Mjust-combed\ 
look—all day long!
NEW FORMULA WITH VIRATOL*
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair.
It looks natural...it 
feels natural...and 
it stays in place I 
Try a bottle.
Mu) VoAwMifì T«1M W4MK • (
*Tbis special compound gives lustre ; ; ; keeps bait in pièce without stiffness.
We Did It!
Windish Plays Full 60 Minutes; 
Intercepts Three Grover Passes
tContinued from page I] 
ers had waited a long time but 
now it was time to celebrate at 
last!
Odds and Ends
Assistant Coach Walt Burns 
went over and grabbed Donohoe 
by the arm after the game and 
said, “Let’s go!” Bill looked at 
him as if to say, “Where do you 
want to go?” Walt promptly re­
minded him that it was the cus­
tom of the winning team coaches 
to go over to the other team’s 
dressing room. After so many 
years it may still take Coach Don­
ohoe a couple of more wins next 
season before he can again get 
into the habit of winning. It’s a 
nice habit though isn’t it coach?
John Windish, rugged center 
and a full 60-minute man was 
really Johnny-on-the-spot as he 
intercepted three Wolverine passes 
from his defensive line-backing 
spot.
Fritz Wilson leaned over and 
yelled to Gerry Meyers, “Nobody 
is blocking me out at all. I’m going 
in!” And he did too. On the next 
play Grove City’s quarterback Bill
THE
CLOCK
Good Meals Anytime
Try Us Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.
Reid was tossed for a fifteen yard 
loss by Wilson as he tried to get 
away a pass. The big freshman 
end was a whirlwind on defense, 
continually breaking up the oppo­
nent’s passes and running plays.
Little Ed Minnich’s running was 
hampered by the mud, but it didn’t 
stop him from throwing the key 
block in Johnny Luchok’s TD 
run. The speedy halfback should 
be exceedingly valuable to the 
Plaid come another football sea­
son.
And how that Williamson was 
punting Saturday. He really ended 
his playing career in a big way. 
His long, booming punts kept the 
Grovers at bay during the second 
and third quarters. He will be a 
hard man to replace next year.
The Wolverines, probably better 
known as the “pass, punt, and 
prayer boys,” found that the Ski- 
bos’ defense was a bit too much 
for their type of game. Donohoe 
had his players primed for the 
long TD run or pass. As a result 
Grove City was kept to short 
gains. Every time they would roll 
up a couple of first downs the 
Tartan line would tighten up and 
stop the short drives. Coach Don­
ohoe gave the best word describ­
ing the defense, “spongy.” A little 
stingey too, coach!
Traveling home from Grove City 
was an hour and a half of sing­
ing, laughing and general merri­
ment. As the players sat down to 
eat in the dining room of the 
Penn-Grove Hotel they burst in­
to a chorus of “Fight For The 
Glory Of Carnegie.” When they 
arrived home training rules be­
came a thing of the past as fra­
ternity parties were dominated by 
celebrating players.
Skibo Line 
Halts Grove 
City Drives
Ed Minnich Throws 
Key Block In Luchok’s 
Long Touchdown Run
[Continued from page 2] 
while freshman Fred Wilson end­
ed the loser’s deepest penetration 
into Carnegie teritory as he threw 
Reid for a 15 yard loss on the 30 
midway in the third period.
Fourth Drive Drive 
In the final quarter, the locals 
started to move once more. Nick 
Simcic, used sparingly during the 
third stanza, and Johnny Luchok 
spearheaded the Plaid’s longest 
drive of the day. The duo tore 
apart the Grove City line as they 
marched 57 yards over the ground 
to the opposition’s 18. With less 
than a minute of play remaining, 
the Plaid finally was forced to re­
linquish possession of the ball. 
The game ended as Reid uncorked 
two wobbly passes in a last futile 
effort to produce a score.
Donohoe Leads 
Floor Practice
Lawrence Tech First 
Contest On December 3
Coach Bill Donohoe, the mem­
ory of last Saturday’s thrilling 
football victory still fresh in his 
mind, took over the basketball 
reins from his able assistant, Mel 
Cratsley, yesterday and prepared 
to groom his charges for the open­
er with tough Lawrence Tech at 
Detroit on December 3/
Despite their wealth of experi­
enced material, the present Skibos 
are far from the winning team 
which has been forecast for this 
winter. Looking extremely unim­
pressive in their three scrimmage 
games thus far, the Plaid five ap­
peared slow and sluggish. Their 
listless play cost them one sided 
defeats at the hands of both the 
Altoona Edwards and the Du- 
quesne University Dukes.
Only the veteran Mike Theo­
dore and freshman Tom Beck, 
Cratsley’s number one guards, of­
fered any contrast to the overall 
dismal appearance. In Beck the 
Tartans have one of the more cap­
able ball handlers in the district 
pairing with last year’s scoring 
ace to form a top notch back line.
The team, however, still fails to 
function as a unit and will un­
doubtedly find trouble coping with 
such formidable opponents as Pitt, 
Waynesburg, Penn State, Bradley 
Tech and the like.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288

---------------------------------------------------

Intramural 
Summary
Results
TNT 22—ATO 6.
Sigma Nu 44—Stanley Steamers 24.
Emanon 23—Delts 12.
PiKA 9—Tau Delts 8.
ATO 26—Phi Kappa 19.
Delts 28—Betas 14.
TNT 50—Sigma Nu 15 (playoff).
Emanon 23—Delts 12.
Kappa Sigma 42—Beta Sigma 12.
Emanon 12—Sigma Nu 3 (playoff).Final Standings
American League Won Lost Tied
Sigma Nu .........................5 0 0Pi Kappa Alpha ..............3 2 0Gringoes ..............................2 3 0Stanley Steamers ............1 4 0Tau Delta Phi ................0 5 0Federal League Won Lost TiedTNT .......................................5 0 0
Alpha Tau Omega ....4 1 0Citcom ..................................3 2 0Phi Kappa .......................2 3 0
Delta Upsilon ..................L 4 0FPHA ..................................0 5 0National League Won Lost Tied
Emanon ................................4 1 0Kappa Sigma ..................3 1 1Sigma Alpha Epsilon . .3 2 0
Beta Theta Pi ..................2 3 0Delta Tau Delta ............1 3 1Beta Sigma Rho ..............1 4 0
Carnegie Booters 
Defeat Allegheny, 
Bow To Grove City
Carnegie Tech’s booters, in their 
finest game of the season, defeated 
Allegheny college on November 9 
by a 2-1 score. They ended their 
season on November 19 with a 1-0 
loss to Grove City.
Both teams went scoreless in the 
first quarter of the Allegheny 
game, but in the second period 
Jenkins, on a setup by Fieldman 
and Lipp, tallied to put the Tar­
tans in front.
Allegheny came back in the, 
third period to tie the score, but 
Crespo of the Tartan squad drib­
bled in from the right side and 
scored. This lead the Plaid never 
relinquished.
A muddy field contributed great­
ly to the sloppy play by both teams 
in the Grove City game. The first 
and only score came in the third 
period when a Grover kick from 
inside right skidded past the Car­
negie goalie for the only score.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the College District
5808 Forbis Street Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street Oakland 
Mate Plantt 
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
In Oakland Parker "STs" Are Available
SALES -AT- SERVICES* »INSTOCK. Jewelers, inc.
3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa.
5816 Forbes St,Squirrel Hill 
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
Good News for 
NIGHT OWLS!
..worlds most 
wanted foe nARROW 
DRESS SHIRTS
Recommended for proms and 
glee club concerts, these smart 
and comfortable Arrows are 
perfect for college formal wear.
• It’s an exciting gift... whether you give it 
or get it! So choose your “51” now.
Here is the world’s most wanted and most 
beautiful writing instrument. Precision-made 
in every detail. The “51” starts the instant 
it touches paper—glides without effort. Your 
hand rests as you write.
What’s more, you never need a blotter. For 
this is the pen that writes dry with Superchrome, 
the ink created for the “51” alone.
If you wait, you may miss out. So do your 
Christmas planning—or hinting—early. See 
your Parker dealer now while a full selection 
of styles and colors is available. Pens, includ­
ing new demi-size, $12.50 and up. Pencils, 
$6.25 and up. Sets, $18.75 to $80.00. The 
Parker Pen Company, Janesville. WiSGOBlia 
U. S. A.; TorQRto, Canada,
Shoreham $6.50
SHIRTS and lit*
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products and 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD’S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood it. Oakland
Parker “51” Pen and Pencil 
Set. Gold-filled cap. $2175,
I» TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1948 < THE CARNEGIE TARTAN 5

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1948
38 Swimmers 
Out For Squad
Joe Pash Grid Trophy To Be 
Presented At C-Club Dance
He was just a little guy —155 pounds to be exact—but to 
everyone who knew him, Joe Pash was about as “big” as they 
come, both on and off the football field.
Joe was, in the words of one of his coaches, Walter Burns,
“one of the fastest players wef---------------—-----------------------------------
ever had on the varsity football 
squad, who never asked quarter 
even though he weighed only 155 
pounds.” In the words of his team 
mates he was “a player’s player.”
He graduated in mechanical 
engineering in December, 1942 and 
entered active duty with the Navy 
in February, 1943. While serving 
as a lieutenant (j.g.) aboard the 
submarine Lagarta, he and all 
aboard were declared missing in 
action.
To perpetuate his memory in a 
way they thought most fitting, his 
Phi Kappa fraternity brothers in­
augurated the Joe Pash Memorial 
Thophy which is awarded an­
nually to the outstanding football 
players of the year.
On the night of December 4, 
at the C-club’s annual football 
dance, the presentation of the cup 
will be made to this year’s choice.
The player was selected for the 
award last night at the football 
team’s victory banquet at the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
It was originally planned that the 
vote would be taken imediately 
following the Grove City game.
This plan was abandoned however 
as the Carnegie dressing room was 
no place to hold a ballotting fol­
lowing the Tartans win.
The player was selected by the 
football coaches and players on 
the basis of his all-around value 
to the team during the past sea­
son. The selection will be kept 
secret until the night of the dance.
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
Quick Efficient Service at the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Lettermen From Last 
Year Return To Team
One of the largest swimming 
squads in recent years, a total of 
38 men, have reported to Coach 
Claude Sofield for the opening of 
tryouts for the varsity swimming 
team.
Returning are co-captains Dave 
Luckey and Robin Molny of last 
year’s team, lettermen George 
Cash, Tony Penfield, Gene Sapper, 
Bill Zoller, and Tony Zukasky, 
four other varsity men from last 
year’s squad, and A1 Maogauskas, 
1946 free-style letter winner.
The team shows promise of be­
ing better balanced than it was 
last year when it was strong in 
the breaststroke and backstroke 
but relatively weak in the free 
style events. Maogauskas’ return, 
along with the interest of several 
newcomers in the weaker events, 
augurs well for the balanced 
strength of the team.
Daily practices of more than an 
hour each have already been 
started to get the squad in con­
dition for the opening meet, with 
Kent State on January 8.
FRAZER PROCESS
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 Darlington Road 
JAckson 5775
TNT’s To Invade 
Pitt For Playoff
Carnegie Tech’s intramural 
football champions, the TNT’s, 
will invade the Pitt stadium at 
4 p. m. today for the annual 
playoff between the representa­
tives of the two Oakland 
schools.
Due to the inclement weath­
er which has prevailed in 
Pittsburgh recently, the Pan­
thers were unable to decide 
upon a champion until the be­
ginning of this week. This, to­
gether with the poor condition 
of the playing fields, has re­
duced plans to the tentative 
stage. The intramural bulletin 
board in the gym will carry 
any last minute notices regard­
ing the game.
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try Our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected 
•
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made With 
PURE WHOLE MILK 
•
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FORBES STREET Near Bouquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE Near Craig
sec
[Continued from page 3] 
department and the aims of both. 
“In general,” he said, “such an 
occasion is planned to build good 
will for the institution.”
Mary Lou Thorpe’s question 
concerning the Carnegie library’s 
refusal to allow undergraduates to 
use back magazine issues brought 
forth an explanation from Dr. Do­
herty that he had found the li­
brary’s rule was as just as it could 
be.
Continuing, he explained that 
the CIT library facilities were be­
ing expanded as rapidly as possi­
ble and that it was hoped that 
many of the needed periodicals
would soon be available here.
“Mr. Voight assures me,” he 
said, “that any material needed 
by a department, and so recom­
mended by a department head, 
will be made available.”
Asked by Vince Prus auout the 
possibility of naming the school 
library, when it is built, after the 
late Dr. William Work, the presi­
dent replied that such a question 
would have to be answered at the 
time the library is built.
Gerry Meyers was requested to 
take up with Director Miner the 
dormitory men’s suggestion to end 
vacations off the travel-heavy New 
Year’s, Easter, and other holiday 
weekends.
NEWS
f-T ‘UNDERWOOD
Fht M. fxeft*Ta* 15.07
TIRMS ARRANGI»
The complete personal typewriter . . . with inbuilt tabulator and many other features that make the “Champion” a truly modern 
portable. Finished in soft French-gray and chromium. Smart carrying case included.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co,
644 LIBERTY AVENUE 
AT. 8320
Prove for yourself what throat specialists 
reported when 30-day smoking test revealed
NO THROAT IRRITATION
due to smoking CAMELS!
In that test, hundreds of men and women, from coast to coast, 
smoked Camels, and only Camels, for 30 consecutive days—an aver­
age of one to two packs a day. And the noted throat specialists who 
examined the throats of these smokers each week—a total of 2470 
careful examinations—reported not one single case of throat irrita­
tion due to smoking Camels!
Make the Camel mildness test. Test Camels yourself for 30 days in your own "T-Zone”... T for Taste and T for Throat.Let YOUR OWN TASTE tell you about the rich, full 
flavor of Camel’s choice tobaccos — so carefully aged and 
expertly blended. Let YOUR OWN THROAT tell you the 
wonderful story of Camel’s cool, cool mildness.
You’ll enjoy the test...every puff of it. You’ll enjoy Camels.
According to a Nationwide survey t
MORE DOCTORS SMOKE CAMELS 
> THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
*A(cneu-3$tic& (Suaiftn/ee/
Try Camels and test them as you smoke them. If, at any time, yon are not convinced that Camels are the mildest cigarette you ever smoked, return the package with the unused Camels and we will refund its full purchase price, plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co, Winston-Salem, N. C.
tpoetor»
Mi
»¦«It* for plcMur*, VOL. Aid wfceo (fare* leading independent ~*«ar/>k «•*»ni*«- MkMl Ili^W doctor* wta ci|srtttt ÜH<y tbc brsod n«n ------— ml!

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................... Lou Adams
Associate Editors ... Raymond Schwalm, Charlene J. Tohey
Circulation Manager...................................................George Dawes
Staff
Reporters—Bob Ellstrom, George Bogovich, Cecille Zellner, Jim Flaherty.
Columnists—Frank Mihelich, C. G. Anderson.The Aisle Sitter
Producing a midsummer night 
in midwinter weather is nice work 
if you can do it, and the drama 
department has done it. Their pro­
duction of Shakespeare’s famous 
comedy “A Midsummer Night’s 
Dream” is as refreshing as a cool 
breeze on a hot summer evening. 
Mr. Henry Boettcher has used 
skill and understanding to fashion 
this delightful entertainment.
There can be no argument with 
Mr. Boettcher’s interpretation for 
his characters are pleasant to 
watch and hear, and his actions 
are well executed.
There were many performances 
worthy of note, but we wish to call 
attention to these particular ones 
which we felt were outstanding. 
In the role of the boisterous Bot­
tom, Norman Keats was quite ef­
fective, and Kay Kuter was highly 
acceptable as Starveling and 
Moonshine.
As the graceful Titania, Collette 
Crawford was beauty personified, 
and Priscilla Morell and Florence 
Levine did good work in the parts 
of Hermia and Helena.
Faiga Goldsman’s portrayal of
Uinard Studioô 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a burry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street 
(Corner Atwood) Room 416
Puck was very good, but her rapid 
speech caused us to lose some of 
her dialogue. As a whole*the cast­
ing was well done, and credit is 
due to them all for an enjoyable 
evening.
In speaking of the success of this 
show we must not neglect to men­
tion the back-of-the-scenes work 
of William Ryan and Paul Traut- 
vetter. Their marionettes were one 
of the most pleasing features of 
the play.
The sets, designed by E. Albert 
Heschong, were among the best 
that we have ever seen in the Car­
negie Theater, and the lighting, 
designed by William Nelson, was 
very effective. The opening night 
performance was somewhat 
marred by bad timing and some 
lighting miscues, but these faults 
were corrected when we saw the 
second cast.
The current presentation at the 
Playhouse, “Shorty” is recom­
mended to all Carnegie students. 
The title role is played by Sam 
Meli, a drama department sopho­
more who shows great promise for 
the legitimate stage.
In«And
Outs
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.—2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
cllSO *
AMERICAN DISHES SERVEDBamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
¡fe*V*:r.í
n&M&uj 04t
Start preparing today
With the
COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES
____ACCOUNTING, Elomontory____ALGEBRA, College ___________.ANCIENT HISTORY____ANC., MED., and MOD. HIST.___ 1-ANTHROPOLOGY, Outline of. -BACTERIOLOGY, Prln. of--BIOLOGY, General_______-BOTANY, General _______..BUSINESS LAW___________..CALCULUS, The .___CHEMISTRY, First Year Col...____CHEMISTRY, Maths. for Gen..___CHEMISTRY, Organic___CORPORATION FINANCE ____,___DOCUMENTED PAPERS, Writ—___ECONOMICS, Principle« of_______EDUCATION, History of________
—ENGLAND, History of____________EUROPE, 1500-1848, Hitt. of.—EUROPE, 1815-1947, History of_ 1 — EXAMS., How to Write Better.___FORESTRY, Gen., Outline of-___FRENCH GRAMMAR__________..GEOLOGY, Principles of.___GEOMETRY. Plane, Probs. In,___GERMAN GRAMMAR________-GOVERNMENT, American— GRAMMAR, ENG. Prln. & Prac. of 1 HYDRAULICS for Firemen________1.__JOURNALISM, Survey of__________1 LATIN AMERICA, History of______ 1 LATIN AMERICA in Maps________ 1___LAT. AMER. Civlllz., Rdgs. In____ t
—LAT. AMER. Economic Dev______1
.00.00.75.25.25.25.75.7550.25.2575500075.25,75
.75.75.00.25.25.00.00.00.00.75.25.00.25.50.25.50
.35
___LITERATURE, American __________*1.50___LITERATURE, English, Diet, of____ 1.25___LIT., English, Hist, to Dryden---- 1.25_LlT., Eng., Hist, since Milton, ..... 1.251.50 .«0 
J51.00 1.001.25 •75 .751.251.251.50 
.751.001.50
___LITERATURE, German.—LOGARITHMIC A Trig. Tables---____MID. AGES, 300-1500, Hist, of——MUSIC, History of___________________PHILOSOPHYi An Intro_____________PHILOSOPHY, Readings in_______—.PHYSICS, First Yecr College_________POLITICAL SCIENCE -------------____POLITICS, Diet, of American_____—PORTUGUESE GRAMMAR_________PRONUNCIATION, Guido to________PSYCHOLOGY, Educational_________PSYCHOLOGY, General _____________RUSSIA, History of-----------------___SHAKESPEAREAN Name*, Diet___ 1.00.SHAKESPEARE’S Plays, Out. of— 1.00St IDE RULE, Practical use of-____SOCIOLOGY, Principle* of-____SPANISH GRAMMAR ------___STATISTICAL METHODS _______STUDY, Best Method* of___.TRIG., Plane & Spherical-
.751.25 1.00
1.25 .601.25 
1.50
.75 
J5
il. S., ilnco 1865, Hittory of— .75
___WORLD, Since 1914, Hittory of— 1.00
___ZOOLOGY, General_____________ 1.00
MICB SUUECT TO CfcANO*
—TUDOR & STUART Ploy*, Out« 
U. S. In Second World War__ 
—.U. S. to 1865, History of_____
These Are All Available At TheSTUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 Fifth Avenue
OPEN 8:30 TO 6
Webster defines the word co­
operation as “operating jointly to 
achieve the same end.” The word 
and its meaning must certainly be 
a part of the responsible parties 
vocabulary but it is probably so 
rusted to the bottom of the list 
that it has long been forgotten.
I am refering in this case to the 
absence of the Tartan distribution 
boxes in Engineering and Indus­
tries halls during evening classes, 
which I believe is due entirely to 
the lack of cooperation on the part 
of someone I am unable to identify 
at the present time. I think it’s a 
crime that the Plaid circulation 
manager, George Dawes, is de­
nied the use of such boxes in 
which the Tartan is made avail­
able to the evening student, while 
his fellow-student in the regular 
school enjoys the convenience of 
the boxes.
It could be that the boxes are 
stored away at nite for protection 
against termites, rumored to be 
imported by the less-privileged 
nite student.
So for the sake of the store­
keeper I include the following clue 
—the termites at CIT are so old 
they eat Plaidwise. So if you nite 
students have wondered why you 
now find our allotment of Tartans
Thanksgiving Dance Is 
Saturday, November 27
Du Cats Will Furnish Music For
Night School In Thistle Hall
A most enjoyable evening of dancing is in store for all who 
attend the annual Thanksgiving dance, sponsored by Evening Stu­
dent Council, to be held in Thistle hall, rear of Gymnasium build­
ing, on Saturday evening, November 27 from 9:00 until 12:00
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT CENTER GRILL
3813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 TEARS EXPERIENCEAt Your Service
on the dusty old floor, instead of 
in a less-dusty old distribution 
box, it is because someone has not 
learned that the most efficient or­
ganizations are based on coopera­
tion. As of now all hatchets may 
be turned in for burial.
When the first issue of this 
year’s Tartan hit the halls, the 
boxes were left out for the use of 
the evening school, yet since then 
they have had to merely lay the 
stack of papers on the floor. Since 
the Plaid has discontinued the 
mailing of the Tartan due to the 
high cost of mailing, their only 
means of distribution is by making 
them available in the halls as done 
in the day school.
Therefore it is this writer’s 
opinion that there is no reason 
whatsoever why the boxes cannot 
be used. And I sincerely hope 
that someone in authority, taking 
time to read this column will take 
action on same. Here’s hoping.
> LEARN TO SNORE
Learn to snore in the daytime. Amaze 
your friends. How? Simple! Just care­
fully avoid NoDoz Awakeners. When 
people take a NoDoz Awakener tablet they 
wake up fast, feel alert. Harmless as 
coffee. 25c at drug stores. «.
University Recreation 
BOWLING
Under New Management
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
SChenley 9307
The music will be furnished by 
the fine 12 piece Delta Upsilon or­
chestra more popularly known 
around the sampus as the Du 
Cats. The Du Cats have a very 
good selection of music, featuring 
foxtrots, swing and lively polkas 
and they will honor any requests 
you care to make. This popular 
group of musicians has many en­
gagements at sorority dances and 
other campus affairs and is fre­
quently engaged to play off the 
campus.
As usual, the Black Cat, capably 
operated by Will Schnarrenberger 
will be ready to serve you re­
freshments, and the lounge, just 
opposite the Black Cat, will be 
open to provide relaxation for 
tired dancers.
The assessment for the dance 
will be $1.00 per person. Tickets 
may be secured from Mr. Mc- 
Kelway in IH 132, from council 
members or at the door.
FOUNTAIN 
PENS
PARKERSHEAFFER
WATERMAN . . . 
ESTERBROOK 
NORMA FOUR-COLOR 
PENCILS
yr
Singer Pen 
and Gift Shop
JENKINS ARCADE
We rely upon
PEOPLE
To provide Pennsylvanians with the best possible telephone service at the lowest possible cost, we rely upon far more than poles, wire, cable, ana Central Office equipment.
We rely upon people!
We rely upon more than 31,000 telephone men and women who provide round-the-clock telephone service.
We rely upon thousands of everyday people who, for security and a fair return, invest their dollars in Bell Telephone securi­ties and thus provide the lion’s share of the money we need to meet the public’s requirements.
We rely upon you ... and the hundreds of thousands of your fellow citizens who know that the welfare of the telephone business is linked with the welfare of Pennsylvanians and, thus, of Pennsylvania itself.
ft
The Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

W'WÊ*.secSTcRFIcLD is the 
cigarette I smoke in 
my new picture, 
AN INNOscNT AFFAIR. 
I always enjoy their 
MILDcR, BcTTcR TASTc... 
It’s MY cigarette "
STARRING IN
AN INNOCENT AFFAIR
A UNITED ARTISTS RELEASE
MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE CHESTERFIELDS than any other Cigarette . . . BY LATEST NATIONAL SURVEY
Beaux Arts Society Makes 
Plans For 1949 Arts Ball
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1948
For the first time since 1927, the 
Beaux Arts society is sponsoring 
two Arts Balls in successive years. 
Acting on a motion passed last 
semester, which reinstituted the 
Arts Ball as an annual affair, the 
honorary has gone ahead with its 
preliminary work.
Members of the honorary have 
formed nine committees in plan­
ning for the Ball. They are: pub­
licity, Aileene Mattes, Bennard 
Perlman, and Janice Seiner; dec­
orations, Philip Pearlstein and 
James Trittipo; lighting, Lucy Ap­
pleton, Stark Drischell, and Gay­
lord Hawkins; entertainment, Rob­
ert Grove, Leonard Kessler, A1 
Lehman, Gretchen Schmertz, An­
thony Zukasky, and Charles Tritle; 
refreshments, Shirley Christjohn
and Louise Fay; tickets, Francis 
Brandi, Herta Christie, and Rus­
sell Kulberg; program, Bennard 
Perlman; procurement, Dale Blos- 
ser and Pete Fischer; and secur­
ity, Francis Brandi and Pat John­
son.
Beaux Arts’ revised constitution, 
passed by Student Council, creates 
several important changes in the 
society.
The group has officially re­
gained its position as an honor­
ary on the Carnegie Tech campus. 
By means of a new section in its 
constitution, new members for the 
group must be selected from the 
upper third of their respective 
classes. This action has terminated 
a year-long battle in which some 
members of the society expressed
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Call Day
[Continued from page 3]
L.itt, Barbara Marsh, Natalie Barnett, Robert Reynolds, Claudia Urban, Mason Aldrich, Pauline Specht, Thomas Mad­den, Jr., Vincent O’Brien, John Re­gan, Ben Benack, Philip Pearlstein, Eu­
gene Myers, Ronald Cartey, Francis Brandi, Russell Kulberg, George Corrin, Stephen Radkoff, James Harkey, and Fred Fargotstein.
New members from Margaret Morrison are Sema Moskovitz, Anne Augustine, Doris Moore, Dorothy Stewart, Dorothy Kams, Grace Ferrero, Ethel Friedman, 
Anne Exline, Jeanne Gannon, Marilyn 
Allshouse, and Mary Thorpe.
their opinion that the honorary 
status to be dropped.
Other constitution changes in­
clude holding an Arts Ball every 
year, instead of semi-annually as 
in the past. The Beaux Arts Ball, 
considered the most important ac­
tivity of the honorary, is put on 
by all of the members of the Arts 
school, with committee chairmen 
coming from the members of 
Beaux Arts.
Student Council
[Continued from page 3] 
it is extremely doubtful if the 
three fourths majority will be 
achieved when the final vote is 
taken.
“Campus reforms must be in­
itiated by the students,” John­
son told Council as he gave the 
suggestion that Council become a 
gathering and developing place 
for student suggestions. He also 
suggested that Council be reduc­
ed in size to promote greater ef­
ficiency and that petty business 
be settled in the various commit­
tees rather than by Council as a 
whole. ,
Among the problems he sug­
gested for investigation were 
school spirit, class organizations, 
a proposed “hall of fame,” the 
commuter problem, more congen­
ial relationships between the ad­
ministration and the student body,
and a closer watch on activities 
in which Council funds were in­
volved.
In reply to Johnson’s statement, 
Councilman Shaffer, budget chair­
man, stated that a reorganization 
Of the monetary situation has al­
ready started and he promised a 
more efficient distribution of 
funds in the future.
• DANCING •
Every Tues., Sat. and SundayDANCELAND
WEST VIEW PARK
Free Parking • Free Checking
DANCELAND ON THE AIR 
1:45 P. M. DAILY 
WPGH«1080 On Your Dial
