w * ///.
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 21, April 16, 1985.
uition for '86-'87 to be $10,250
.• r . - i r. • /• - • —This article, taken from information pro 
ded by the recently released 1985 Tuition 
ommittee Final Report, is the first of a 
ties of articles examining the tuition situa-
w*/tui ot/n
:rtan News Editor
Undergraduate tuition for the 1986-87 
ademic year will be $10,250.
This marks an $850, or nine percent, in­
ease from the 1985-86 tuition level of1
,400. Historically, it is the smallest in- 
:ase for tuition in five years.
In its final report, the Tuition Commit- 
also made several further 
:ommendations:
lat the University continue its commit- 
ent to admission regardless of financial ,
ed;
hat the University continue to oppose cur­
rent Reagan Administration proposals 
regarding cutbacks in student financial aid;
•that a committee of administration, facul­
ty, and students address and guide the 
planned expansion in the use of personal 
computers for educational purposes.
The Tuition Committee based its nine 
percent recommendation on the need for “a 
slight acceleration in CMU’s growth in ex­
cellence.” Although Expenditures and 
General Operation’s (E&GO) forecasts sug­
gest that an eight percent increase would 
create a balanced budget, the Committee 
report stated: “. . .such an increase could in 
the short term accommodate the present 
forward momentum of the University, but 
that in the long term could lead to a level­
ing off of our growth in excellence.”
The one percent increase above the
“status quo in growth” increase of eight per­
cent will net the university approximately 
$345,000 after financial aid expenditures. 
The report cited specific educational ex­
amples of areas in which the extra revenue 
might be used:
-College of Fine Arts 
•electronic drawing studio for art and 
design
•computer-aided music composition 
and orchestration 
•a video/film program
-Carnegie Institute of Technology 
•improved classrooms and laboratories 
•some growth in numbers of faculty
-Humanities and Social Sciences 
•development of a Philosophy 
Department 
•development of a program of Literary
Studies in the English Department
-Mellon College of Science 
•new college core curriculum, with 
flexibility for computer science tracks 
•implementation of dual majors with 
computer science
The report included a new set of four tui­
tion payment alternatives to replace the cur­
rent Installment Payment Plan. The com­
mittee chose the Knight Tuition Payment 
Plan as the ‘vendor’ for the CMU Tuition 
Payment Plan next fall.
The first option, the Monthly Budget 
Plan, will authorize parents to pay for the 
annual costs of education on a monthly basis 
over ten or 12 months.
The Insured Tuition Payment Plan covers 
educational costs for four years by investing 
continued on page 5enate prepares uide to classes
MIKE POR.TUESI
on Staffwriter
guide utilizing student critcism toI
luate CMU’s courses and faculty is being 
pared by Student Senate.
he book will be published next semester,
: Spring registration. According to Stu- 
bt Senate Academic Affairs Committee 
air Cindy Taylor, publication had been 
jieduled for this semester. However, a lack 
Icomments, combined with other Senate 
pies such as elections and the core cur- 
ulum survey, pushed the publication date 
wd. Taylor plans to run a publicity 
npaign at the beginning of next semester, 
people are thinking about it.”i
iylor envisions the guide as a supplement 
he Faculty Course Evaluation (FCE) 
lished by the Administration. She had 
1 student course evaluations at other 
'ersities, and felt the FCE didn’t give 
its enough information about the 
themselves.
Some of the numbers (in the FCE) are 
% meaningless,” Taylor said. “I have sug- 
changes to this form that have been 
£nted to the Educational Affairs Coun- 
| which in turn presented a combined pro- 
»1 to Warner Hall. Perhaps we might see 
FCE form this spring.”
IU MIT, for example, the student course 
Ration lists enrollment rates, average 
’ per week spent on classwork, the tex- 
°k used, and rates difficulty and 
vance of the text, problem sets, and ex- 
addition, it contains short sum- 
Ies of student comments. “What I real- 
[*t is both the FCE and our guide in 
‘ b°ok,’’ said Taylor.
I e Student Senate guide will consist 
r1' of summaries of student comments, 
°Ccasional quotes. Two to three 
^aphs will rate each course, including 
I essor. There will be no numbers, and
comments on each course as a basis for ac­
curacy of the student comments. “If we have 
enough comments, we can publish 
something that can really stand on its own,” 
said Taylor. “We will advertise for specific 
departments if the number of comments for 
them is skimpy. We want lots of student 
response.”
Students who have comments about 
specific professors or classes can send them 
to the Academic Affairs Commission, Skibo
59, c/o the Skibo Information Desk, or by 
computer mail to SS29@TE or TF.
photo by Olve Peeraen
Presidential candidates Karen Lee, Seth Kaplan and Peter Cohen debated campus- 
related issues in the Wherrett Room last Wednesday.
Presidential candidates field panel questions
^nts willnot fill out a form to register---------— - ~o-------
Vlews- Many professors don’t pass out 
'n class. Our guide will cover the pro- 
s [he FCE doesn’t cover,” noted Taylor, 
citing comments from students has 
1 out to be the biggest problem thus 
I Really Taylor is looking for at least ten
olici
M
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
Three candidates for Student Government 
President participated in a debate on 
Wednesday April 10, in the Wherrett room.
Peter Cohen, Seth Kaplan, and Karen Lee 
fielded questions from a panel consisting of 
Stephan Volan, Tartan Editor-in-Chief; Bill 
McCormick, current Student Government 
President; and Lois Cox, Dean of Student 
Activities. Student Senate Chairman Mike 
Bett moderated the debate, which was 
simulcast on WRCT radio.
Each candidate was alloted five minutes 
for introductory remarks. Cohen opened by 
stressing his “record as a problem solver,” 
citing experience as a Student Senator, and 
emphasized the need to increase student 
awareness and input in campus issues.
Kaplan defined the Student Government 
President as the representative of every stu­
dent, whose main functions are to com­
municate with students, find out their pro­
blems, and direct them to proper channels 
nels for solving their problems.
Lee used her opening remarks to present 
her main goal; to “establish communication 
between students, administration, and cam­
pus organizations.” She stressed the need for 
students to know the motivations behind ad­
ministrative decisions.
Three rounds of questions from the panel 
followed. Each candidate received two
minutes to reply to each question.
Dean Cox opened the first round of ques­
tioning with the request that the candidates 
think of a potential University-wide problem 
or conflict, and describe how the Student 
Government President should attempt to 
solve it.
Cohen chose an existing source of conflict, 
the SEI. "I’ve gone to the SEI information 
forum,” he stated, and explained that his job 
would be to find out the facts of the issue 
and how the majority of students felt, and 
make their opinions known, He feels that 
most CMU students view the SEI favorably 
and cites such potential benefits for students 
as exposure to famous computer scientists.
Kaplan mentioned the proposed Core 
Curriculum as a potential source of conflict 
among students. He felt that any Univera .y 
decision on the core curriculum should con­
sider student opinion, and he would work 
to see that the administration received plenty 
of student input on the issue.
Lee interpeted the question from a more 
general view, emphasizing that as President, 
she would ascertain ‘why’ the administration 
makes any decision that affects students, “I 
want to become arbitrator between students 
and administration,” she claimed.
Bill McCormick’s questions to the can­
didates included the following: “Give two 
reasons why I should vote for you, and two
reasons why I shouldn’t.”
Lee’s two best assets in her own eyes are 
her belief in herself, and her knowledge of 
how to get results. “I believe in my own 
abilities . . . and I know how to get things 
done. I’m hard working.”
Two flaws? “I wouldn’t delegate enough, 
I try to do everything myself,” she said, also 
continued on page 5
In This issue:
News
Meet the candidates....page 13-14
Melon Felony..........................page 5
Features
Radio Club...............................page 7
Fine Arts job search..............page 8
Entertainment
U2 concert...........................page 11
Ze/da reviewed....................page 12
Sports
Tartans win PAC relays...pages 16
Sports summary..............page 17
Editorial
Karen Lee endorsed...........page 18
Acme............................pages 24-25
Plus Special Carnival Preview

---------------------------------------------------

fffiCCMTNG MEMORIEC
J-J A Moving New Play by Arthur Giron LJ
Associate Professor of Drama, Carnegie-Mellpn University
American 
Family Portraits 
We All Share
A look back 
at the courtship, 
marriage and lives 
of five families 
through the eyes 
of their grandchildren.
1/2 PRICE STUDENT TICKETS ($6.75) 
AVAILABLE IN ADVANCE
FOR PERFORMANCES TUES. APR. 16, WED. APR. 17, THURS. APR. 18 
AND TUES. APR. 23. Student tickets may also be purchased Vi hour 
before curtain (subject to availability, with student I.D.) 
for all performances April 16—May 19.
“Becoming Memories’’ Forum 
with Playwright Arthur Giron and Director Lee Sankowich 
will follow 8:00 p.m. performance on Thursday, April 18.
APRIL 16—MAY 19 • TICKETS—321-9800
Pittsburgh Public Theater
GRADUATE STUDY OF PUBLIC AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
T, IN WASHINGTON D.C.
he American University’s College of Public and Inter­
national Affairs offers students a rare opportunity to 
become a part of Washington, D.C., the nation's capital — 
an international center for government, business and cultural 
institutions.
By combining first rate course work with Washington s nearly 
limitless opportunities for internships, cooperative education, 
and face to face contact with prominent figures and practicing 
professionals, the College of Public and International Affairs 
provides a unique education in public administration, political 
science, international service, justice, and computer systems 
applications. Students may choose from nine graduate degree 
programs offered by the four schools that comprise the College; 
The School of Government and Public Administration, The 
School of International Service, The School of Justice, and The 
Center for Technology and Administration.
For more information mail this coupon or call (202) 885-3850.
Name
Address
City
State Zip
College or University
RlC^njrTHE AMERICAN UNIVERSITYWASHINGTON DC
Mail To: CPIA, Office of the Dean -SP, 
101 Ward Building, The American 
University, Washington, D.C. 20016.
Please send me information about 
Graduate Programs in the:
____School of Government and
Public Administration
____ School of International Service
____School of Justice
____Center for Technology and
Administration 
____Other___________________________
The American University is an EEO/Affirmative Action institution.
W3VC
The CMU Radio Club 
is assisting in the 
coordination of 
sweepstakes as a 
campus service.
IHAIIIC 
CLUHX
UNICUE 1 \il UIESICNS ' ** ¦ 
IFCIP WOMEN & MEN
N ' I « 1 
AN y Ml I VH II
I ill UN 4 4 11 I N
I yi KYI!
frhe 19 r86hhhe -7 
lr/bh$hh 60,
II 1 V V\l ill -s
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan—Page 3
Campus group opposes infringements
By ROBERT PFIEFER
Special to The Tartan 
About 25 students attended the charter 
meetings of Students for Choice on March 
8 in Skibo 13.
According to acting president and co- 
founder, Catherine Singstad, the major 
motivation for the meeting was to give a 
statement of the group’s intentions — the 
primary objective is to lobby against legis­
lation that would prohibit a woman from 
obtaining a legal abortion — and to attract 
members for the group that will “really take 
off and become active as of September.” 
SFC has University acknowledgement, but 
the group’s political nature makes it ineligi­
ble for financial backing from the students’ 
Activities Fee.
Clearing the Way 
Although “quite pleased and also amaz­
'd” by the number of students who did turn 
-ut for the initial meeting, Singstad express­
'd some apprehension over the student 
ody’s potential misconception concerning 
he gioup.
Early campus wide opinion of SFC in- 
icates that the group is being perceived 
lely as a pro-abortion club. Seemingly, this 
artial misconception is rooted in the name 
f the group itself. STUDENTS FOR 
HOICE conjures up images of the nation- 
ide Pro-Choice groups although SFC is in
o way affiliated with any of these national 
oups.
On one hand, the founders of SFC are 
lad that students regard the issue of choice 
s one that is intimately entwined with the 
bortion question. Founding member Katya 
obinson stated, “The abortion question is 
t a crucial stage. One more Reagan ap- 
inted Supreme Court Justice and the land- 
ark decision of the Court in 1973 on the 
oe vs. Wade case could be overturned.
Frankly, I’m surprised at the attitude of this 
campus. The abortion issue is not passe. I 
can’t believe that the women who attend 
CMU and other similar universities are be­
ing so passive, especially after investing so 
much effort to pursue promising careers in 
fields traditionally dominated by men . . . 
it is not uncommon for women’s careers to 
be stifled by inopportune pregnancies ...”
“The abortion issue is not 
passe. I can’t believe that the 
women who attend CMU 
and other similar univer­
sities are being so passive, 
especially after investing so 
much effort to pursue pro­
mising careers in fields 
traditionally dominated by 
men . .
However, Robinson readily admits that 
the group could run into trouble if the cam­
pus misconception continues. “SFC does and 
will continue to have a broader base.” 
Ground is Broken
To avoid campus wide misconceptions, in­
terested members agreed to put forth the in­
tentions, goals and future actions of SFC. 
Some highlights of the group’s intentions as 
presented last Thursday night:
(1) SFC is not politically/partisan 
affiliated.
(2) Nor will SFC be a single issue group.
(3) SFC is a group of students interested 
in getting back to the “basic 10” — the Bill 
of Rights. They are against any legislation 
at any government level that unnecessarily
violates and/or infringes upon the liberties 
of an individual as safeguarded by the Bill 
of Rights — traditional hallmark of U.S. 
democracy.
The emphasis on the abortion issue, as a 
rallying point, was picked by the SFC group 
not only because it directly violates specific 
ammendments embodied in the Bill of 
Rights and other Constitutional amend­
ments, but because an anti-abortion law is 
inherently contrary to the philosphy of the 
Bill of Rights. A law such as the proposed 
anti-abortion amendment would, in effect, 
be tantamount to telling women that they 
have no right, no control over their own 
bodies.
Such a law would take decision making 
and thereby choice out of the affected in­
dividual’s (in this specific instance, the preg­
nant woman’s) hand — an unnecessary in­
fringement on individuals that is contrary 
to the spirit of the Bill of Rights and to the 
driving force behind STUDENTS FOR 
CHOICE.
On This Foundation
The primary objective of SFC therefore is 
to provide campus wide awareness coupled 
with specific actions for legislation that 
possesses infringement characteristics — 
potential laws that, without demonstrating 
overall societal benefit, take decision mak­
ing and choice out of the individual’s hand. 
Such examples include the current ad­
ministration’s anti-abortion stance, legisla­
tion concerning victimless crimes and the 
notion of non-equal worth.
SFC members do not feel the need to ad­
vocate any specific activism to be a mean­
ingful group. SFC hopes to create a free and 
open form type of atmosphere where 
thoughts and ideas can ferment. In such an 
environment action will be the obvious end 
result. According to Singstad, SFC “chooses
to let action be an individual decision, a 
direct result of informed thought process.” 
SFC already appears to have met success 
with their philosophy. Members at the first 
meeting advocated escorting women who are 
seeking abortions through the Pro-Life 
picket lines at clinics in Pittsburgh on 
Mother’s Day 1985. This activity is reminis­
cent of the Federal Marshalls who escorted 
black children through the picket lines and 
riots at segregated, southern schools.
Some members also initiated a letter cam­
paign to Congressmen involved in preven­
ting an anti-abortion ammendment.
SFC members will determine the intensi­
ty of action taken against legislative infr­
ingements of individual liberties. Each case 
will be handled in a manner appropriate to 
the degree of governmental infringement.
How Shall We Build?
Aside from preventing the passage of an 
anti-abortion amendment that is nothing 
short of the efforts of a passionate, albeit 
radical and misinformed, minority fringe, 
the SFC plans to address the prerogatives of 
its members.
Any student with an interest in the abor­
tion issue or with a desire to prevent any 
other legislative infringements on individual 
liberties is encouraged to attend SFC 
meetings.
SFC also has several events planned — 
discussions and guest lecturers — that will 
examine particular issues and will be open 
to the student body and general public free 
of charge. Among the events already plan­
ned is a lecture by Jeanne Clark, Exec. 
Director of Allegheny Womens Health 
Center, on April 25, 1985, as well as a con­
tinuing series on Constitutional law by pro­
minent local and Washington, D.C. lawyers 
and specialists.
INCREDIBLE . . . 
UNBELIEVABLE . 
SENSATIONAL
LARRY & CAROLS 
PIZZA
$2.00 OFF ON ANY ITEM ON 
THE MENU ($5.00 PURCHASE)FAST, FREE DELIVERY
687-1189
PIZZA
hoagies 
alzones 
alads 
or SAUSAGE 
eat ball sandwich
$2.00 OFF VALID 
ONLY IF YOU 
IDENTIFY YOURSELF 
AS A COUPON 
HOLDER WHEN 
PLACING ORDER. 
EXPIRES 4-22-85

---------------------------------------------------

FALL SEMESTER 1985 REGISTRATION
Registration for the Fall Semester 1985 has been scheduled for April 24 and 25, 1985. All students, graduate 
and undergraduate, are expected to register at this time if they expect to be on th rolls for the Fall Semester. 
If you will not be returning for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form (clearly marked 
for Fall 1985) with your department. If you are studying off campus, or for some other reason you cannot 
register on April 24 and 25, ask your advisor to process a registration for you, or call the Registrar's Office 
for special instructions.
The Class Schedule Booklet is now available inside the main entrance to Baker Hall and the Information 
Desk in Skibo. The booklet contains a list of courses which will be offered next semester, the schedule and 
classrooms for each, the instructor’s name, and complete instructions for registration. Please obtain one and 
carefully read and follow the instructions contained in it.
A single regisration form called the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) will be used 
for registration. It will provide an additional opportunity for you to review and update the demographic in­
formation on file for you and provide a form on which to list and have approved your program for the coming 
semester.
1. Pick up your R3D form from your department and correct the demographic infor­
mation. (Forms for H&SS freshmen are available in the Academic Advisory Center, 
BH 161.)
2. Meet with your advisor and have a schedule with alternatives approved.
3. On April 24 and 25 between 9:30 a.m. and4:00 p.m., go to each department teaching 
a course you wish to register for and obtain registration approval.
4. Upon obtaining all approvals, return your R3D form to your department. You keep 
the last (yellow) copy.
If you need further information or assistance, please call the Office the Registrar, 578-2004.
Carnegie-MeRon University Spring Carnival
SDC 
Presents . . .
It Comes In Colore
THE DATING GAME
Who will be the lucky one—bachelor/bachelorette 
#1, bachelor/bachelorette #2, or 
bachelor/bachelorette #3?
7:00pm Thursday, April 18th 
in the tent

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan—Page 5
uition hike explained
ntinued from page 1
ayments at money market rates and 
istributing these payments to the universi- 
on a semester basis.
With the Tuition Stabilization Plan, full- 
me undergraduates can avoid the costs of 
ition increases in future years by paying 
r a maximum of four years’ tuition at cur-
nt rates.
This particular program will provide two 
tiding arrangements. In the Cash Prépay­
ent option, parents assume responsibility 
r providing funding. In the TSP Install­
ment Option, the Knight firm will provide 
funding at a variable rate which is 3.5 per­
cent above the 91-day Treasury Bill rate.
The repayment schedule, according to 
the report, will be four, six or eight years 
for freshmen, three or six years for 
Sophomores, and two or four years for 
Juniors. CMU will approve credit 
worthiness.
In the fourth option, the Extended 
Repayment Plan, educational costs may be 
funded over 48, 60, or 80 months. The in­
terest rate will be four percent above the rate
Year1982-831983-841984-851985-861986-87
Tuition Level$6300$7500$8400$9400$10,250
Dollar Increase$900$1200$900$1000$850
Percentage Increase16.7%19.0%12.0%11.9%9.0%
paid on 91-day Treasury Bills, adjusted 
quarterly.
The report cited the “influence of tuition 
costs at competing universities” as one 
reasons for the tuition level recommenda­
tion. In a tuition based ranking of com­
petitive colleges, Carnegie-Mellon charges
slightly less than such schools as Nor­
thwestern or University of Pennsylvania, but 
that gap has narrowed. The Committee 
reported: “If tuition is perceived to be in­
appropriate relative to schools of parallel 
quality, it can have a detrimental effect on 
CMU’s ability to recruit the students it 
desires.” •
DS victim of melon felony
y KAREN GRAY
on News Editor
Two hundred ten dollars worth of 
elons and sheetcake consumed at a “Zelda” 
ktail reception Friday evening were later 
und to have been stolen from the Univer- 
y Dining Service (UDS).
“I did not realize that we were getting 
len food for this affair,” said Keith Saft, 
o organized the reception. He said that
andi dates 
tate views
ntinued from page 1
mitting that “some people think I’m too 
ftspoken . . . but if I _ really want 
mething, I’ll push for it.”
Cohen mentioned as drawbacks the fact 
at “I can get too excited, overheated,” and 
at “I can seem too egocentric .. . but I just 
hard to push my ideas through.”
He listed experience and hard work as 
asons to vote for him, citing his chairman- 
p of the General Campus Information 
mmittee and his investigation of 
ciplinary process used in the ZBT 
ident.
Kapian considered communication one of 
best qualities. “I’m very tuned in with the 
ople, I can express myself well,” In addi- 
n, “The things I believe in are what you
Heve in.”
As a flaw, Kaplan mentioned that like Lee 
doesn’t delegate enough. “I tend to forget 
t there are other senators, and they can 
things too.” He also tends to “try to get 
faction out of everything,” and doesn’t 
ays remember that every goal may not 
accomplished.
°lan asked the candidates to state their 
Ws on underage drinking on campus and 
they would apply those views. 
e replied that “drinking is a personal 
lce- She asserted that the Campus Pub 
UW admit everyone, but serve alcohol on- 
0 those over 21. She maintained that it 
underage students responsibilities to 
^ tr°uble with the LCB and uphold the 
Nation of CMU. “The legal drinking age 
^ and that’s the way it is.”
°hen mentioned first that he didn’t see 
Problem with the fraternities. “They’re 
ate Parties.” However, he contends that 
st students want a place on campus they 
§0 that doesn’t serve alcohol.” Conse- 
he would push for a Campus Pub 
w°uld serve no alcohol.
"Plan
Pete--
he had been led to believe that the food ar­
rangements were “being taken care of.” 
UDS had originally stocked the items for 
a party for Fred Rogers of the popular 
children’s television show Mister Rogers’ 
Neighborhood.
According to Saft, a UDS employee in­
formed “Zelda” author Colette Sylvestri of 
the mishap early Sunday morning.
Saft said he is unsure whether charges will 
be pressed.
File Now!
Help 1RS process more quickly.
2-0$5
( Thisairtr
'l/& Ai&4py 
HAP
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM 
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
commented, “I have to disagree 
most people do want the Pub to 
j |alcoh°l-” He doesn’t foresee any 
Pinary problems with a Pub which 
Serve alcohol to students over 21. “it 
^0rk very successfully if well controlled.” 
^debate and WRCT simulcast con-
at 6:00 pm. All students are urgedast thf>;, ,lr vote for Student Government
1 ent on Tuesday and Wednesday,
16 and 17.
Statistical and Reporting Software 
for IBM PC/XT and AT
SPSS/PC is the most comprehensive statistical 
package available for performing simple or complex 
tasks, regardless of data size. It maintains feature 
and language compatibility with mainframe SPSS,® 
while optimizing for the PC environment.
Designed to maximize your productivity, SPSS/PC 
offers three-letter truncation of commands; the ability to 
batch process commands; save and enter commands 
in groups; receive on-line help; redirect input and output 
to screen, disk and/or printers and more.
Statistics range from simple descriptive to complex 
multivariate, including Multiple Regression, ANOVA, 
Factor and Cluster analysis. Loglinear and nonpara- 
metric procedures are also included.
Simple facilities allow transfer of files between 
SPSS/PC and programs like Lotus 1-2-3, dBase II and 
SAS. A complete Report Writer, plotting facilities 
and communications program for mainframes round 
out a fully integrated product.
For more information, contact our Marketing 
Department at:
SPSS Inc., 444 N. Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, IL 60611. 312/329-3500.
In Europe: SPSS Benelux B.V., P.O. Box 115,
4200 AC Gorinchem, The Netherlands.
Phone: +31183036711. TWX: 21019.
VISA, MasterCard and American Express accepted.
PRODUCTIVITY RAISED TO THE HIGHEST POWER *
•cpQc/pp run* on the IBM PC/XT with 320K memory and a hard disk, and IBM PC/AT with hard disk An 8087 co-processor is recommended Contact SPSS Inc. tor other 
~vmi I «ore IBM PC/XT and PC/AT are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation dBase II is a trademark of Ashton-Tate 1-2-3 is a trademark of 
Lotus Delelopment Corporation SAS is a registered trademark of SAS Institute. Inc SPSS and SPSS/PC are trademarks of SPSS Inc. tor its proprietary computer software
c Copyright 1985. SPSS Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

TM
Microsoft offers Macintosh1 
owners all the answers to all your 
final tribulations. Everything you’ve 
ever wanted. For less.
Word File* Chart. 
Multiplan! BASIC*
All at great student discounts. 
Microsoft® Word doesn’t limit you 
to 10 or even 50 pages, so it’s perfect 
for long term papers. It runs letter 
quality printers and works with 
your existing MacWrite™ files (so 
you don’t lose any of your work). 
Microsoft File lets you organize any 
information from research notes to 
record collections. Microsoft Chart 
punctuates any statistic-filled report 
by letting you illustrate your point, 
graphically. For accounting or fi­
nance, Microsoft Multiplan is the 
spreadsheet for the Macintosh. And 
with Microsoft BASIC, you can 
write your own programs.
Max your major.
Word, File, Chart and Multiplan 
work together, so you can easily
move information back and 
forth between them. And all use 
the same command MICROSOFT
, The High Performance Software
structure.That means you can save 
valuable learning time.
And each works on the 128K or 
512K Macintosh. Not to mention 
that we’ve written more programs 
for Mac, so nobody knows Mac 
better than us. No other company’s 
software can give you all this.
So if you want to be a more 
productive student, take Mac to the 
max. Check-out Microsoft at your 
campus store or call (800) 426-9400. 
In Washington State, call (206) 
828-8088 for more information.
Microsoft .Hid Mulriplan arc registered trademarks and The Hiyh Performance Software 
is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation MacWrite is a trademark and Macintosh is a trademark 
licensed to Apple Computer. Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Multi-faceted organization
mateur Radio Club facilitates buggy safety
y MIKE CHEPPONIS
pecial to The Tartan
When the buggies race this Friday and 
aturday, you can be sure that quite a bit 
f time was expended perfecting the bug- 
¡eSi training the drivers and pushers, and 
oing the other details necessary to make 
uggies happen —like getting permits, hir- 
ng police and other bits of administrivia. 
‘nd CMU’s Amateur Radio Club is part of 
t all.
For many years now, the CMU Amateur 
adio Club has been providing coordination 
nd emergency communications for all 
Uggy prance8, and, of course, for the faces 
hemselves. You may have noticed us, 
lthough we are usually inconspicuous: 
e re the ones with the small hand-held two- 
»ay radios (called HTs) and we are 
trategically placed around the course (at 
tart, Panther Hollow, Westinghouse, 
lonument, Chute, Scaife, Baker, and a 
over).
We follow the buggies’ progress, reporting 
-hen a buggy has passed a location. We also 
oordinate traffic flow, allowing non-buggy 
affic on the course only when safe to do 
. In fact, our main purpose is to try to 
ake the buggy races as safe as possible.
Our main purpose is to try 
make the buggy races as 
fe as possible”
In the infrequent case that a driver has 
problem and, say, slides into the hay bales 
t Chute, we immediately dispatch the Pitt- 
urgh Paramedics (or the EMS people). We 
ow our role: we never touch a buggy or 
to pull someone out of a crashed buggy; 
e provide the communications so that those 
alified can do their respective jobs.
But the buggy communications network 
is only one of the many facets of the amaz­
ing hobby of Amateur Radio, or “ham 
radio as it is often called. The small hand­
held HTs used for buggy use FM modula­
tion and run at about two watts of power 
on the two meter amateur band.
But hams, licensed by the Federal Com­
munications Commission, are permitted a 
much more varied selection of modulation 
methods, allowable frequencies, and 
allowable modes. We can use 1,500 watts 
on frequenceies as low as 1.6 MHz and as 
high into the microwave region as our 
equipment allows. We can use SSB (single 
sideband), CW (Continuous Wave, or 
code), AM (Amplitude Modulation), FM 
(Frequency Modulation), SSTV (Slow-Scan 
Television), and OSCAR (Oribiting Satellite 
Carrying Amateur Radio), to name a few 
of the more popular modes.
Hams are often in the headlines. The first 
non-military information out of Grenada 
was via Amateur Radio. During a Space 
Shuttle mission about a year ago, ham and 
astronaut Owen Garriott communicated 
with his earth-bound brethren using a 
modified HT; Ham Radio provided com­
munications backup for that mission.
Perhaps the most popular ham activity is 
chasing “DX.” “DX” means “distance,” and 
talking with people all over the world is a 
common activity for ham radio operators. 
It’s just as likely to talk with your friends in 
San Francisco as with your acquaintances in 
Melbourne, Tokyo or Kiev. With the 
OSCAR ham satellites now in orbit, “work­
ing DX” is even easier.
A very exciting communications mode 
called “packet radio” is now beginning to 
catch on in ham radio. With packet radio 
stations, hams link their computers together 
using the airwaves to exchange information
¦
photo by Mike Pilewski
CMU’s Amateur Radio Club will play an active role in providing communications 
and safety during Sweepstakes by observing the progress of buggies on the course.
of all sorts, from schematic diagrams and
ordinary text to new computer programs. In 
addition, in 1986 another radio satellite call­
ed PACSAT will be launched, which will 
allow any ham radio packet station on the 
globe to send a message to any other ham 
packet station in under ninety minutes!
The CMU Amateur Radio Club station, 
located in Hamerschlag Hall, is or will soon 
be equipped for all these things and more.
As for other facets of this amazing hobby, 
I can only mention: VHF and UHF 
repeaters, Moonbounce, ATV (Amateur 
Television), FAX (Facsimile), Microwaves, 
RTTY (Radioteletype), and “ragchewing.” 
If you’d like more information about the 
CMU Amateur Radio Club, drop a line to 
Bill Wrbican, President CMU Amateur 
Radio Club, C/O ECE. And do come out 
and watch the buggy races!
even AIESEC-CMU students to travel abroad
SUE KIM
rial to The Tartan
his year, there will be seven members of 
ESEC — Carnegie -Mellon who will be 
rking abroad. These members were 
cted to be matched to jobs in one of six- 
ountries in the world. The results of the 
tching process, which took place in 
in, were jobs for AIESEC members 
ated across Europe.
ren Jewell, a junior majoring in In- 
tnal Management will be working for 
er yhtyma Oy, a marketing company 
ed in Helsinki, Finland. For approx-
ice and Virtue
innately 10 weeks, Jewell will be working in 
cost accounting and computer science. Her 
specialties include programming with per­
sonal computers and doing statistical work.
Another AIESEC —CMU member who is 
eager to go on her traineeship is Heather 
Pillar. Pillar, a senior in Industrial Manage­
ment, will be travelling to Karhula, Finland 
to work for A. Ahlstrom Corporation, which 
is an engineering company. Her traineeship 
lasts ten weeks and involves work in adver­
tising, public-relations, and marketing.
Todd Rudley is looking forward to his 
traineeship in Oslo, Norway. Rudley is cur-
rently a junior in Industrial Management. 
While in Norway, Rudley will gain ex­
perience working in finance and accounting 
for Kredittkassen, a commercial bank.
This year, three AIESEC —CMU members 
will be working in the same country, 
Finland. Along with Jewell and Pillar, An­
drea Shiah plans to spend ten weeks in 
Helsinki, Finalnd working for the Director 
of Finance at Standard Electric, a subsidiary 
of ITT in New York City. Shiah, an In­
dustrial Management student in her third 
yer, is enthusiastic about her job and 
especially about a trip that she will be tak-
-omputer network receives too much 
mphasis, but can create useful tools
CARL ALPHONSE
r The Tartan
|0rr>puters and CMU are becoming more 
m°re synonymous as the University 
Ws ahead with its plans to computerize 
CamPus. As this is going on, many ques 
^ tions are arising as to what is 
jA happening at the University.
' Carnegie-Mellon is a good
k university that has the potential 
great. The administration has 
Seized this and is now working on the 
Vement and expansion of the com- 
^ aspect of CMU. The idea in itself is 
greeable, but the way in which it is be- 
|is0ne.lea*» much to be desired.
9uite clear that several departments
could do much to improve their facilities 
and programs with more funding. The 
thought behind the new workstations is that 
they will be something of a cure-all for 
everyone. To expect this is certainly naive; 
computers cannot take the place of people. 
They can, however, be very useful tools. Col­
ette Wilkins, assistant professor of solfege, 
stresses this. CAMUS (Computer Assisted 
Music Units in Solfege) is a program she has 
developed which helps students with ear 
training. The computer controls a syn­
thesizer which plays a melody. The student 
may ask that the melody be repeated, and 
can also ask to hear a standard A (440 Hz). 
The student then tries to write out the 
melody played. The computer can tell the
student how well he has done. If the com­
puter were not playing the melody foi the 
student, a person would have to. The task 
of playing the melody is one which is ideal­
ly suited for a computer, as it is a highly 
repetetive one. The professor is left to do 
things which a computer cannot do, such as 
help students with more complex problems, 
do research, and so forth.
Programs such as these are of benefit to 
both students and professors. The Universi­
ty wants software such as this developed for 
use in teaching, but seems unwilling to 
spend large amounts of money to do this. 
Money must generally be found from out­
side sources. Instead the University is con- 
continued on page 9
ing from Finland to Leningrad, Russia.
Staying for six weeks in Malmo, Sweden, 
Anthony Sargent will be working at Sydkraft 
AB, an electric company. Sargent’s field of 
experience include financial planning, 
budgeting, and project admiunistration. As 
a junior in CMU’s Industrial Management 
program, Sargent is eager to go on an 
AIESEC traineeship. Originally from 
Switzerland, Sargent will be closer to home 
in Sweden than he is here at CMU.
Jan Beyen will be working for Sime, a 
computer service company located in Milan, 
Italy. Beyen’s job will provide him with ex­
perience in his present field of study, which 
is Information Systems.
Along with the CMU students going on 
traineeships, two AIESEC —CMU members 
from Duquesne University and Bethany Col­
lege also have been matched overseas.
First, Joe Shimko, a Duquesne student, 
will be working in his area of specialization. 
Import-Export, at a wholesale company 
called Adria Commerce Z, which is located 
in Koper, Yugoslavia.
Next, Sue Griffen from Bethany College 
will be working for a long time period of up 
to 1V4 years with Firmenich Sa. The com­
pany is based in Geneva, Switzerland, and 
Griffen’s traineeship will utilize her skills in 
computer science, specifically ihe computer 
language COBOL.
These seven hard-working AIESEC- 
CMU members are excited about their up­
coming summer jobs they received through 
the AIESEC program. All students at CMU 
are welcome to participate in AIESEC and 
its activities. Meetings are held every 
Wednesday in Skibo room 11 at 4:30. All ac­
tive members are qualified to apply for jobs 
abroad.

---------------------------------------------------

YOU COULD FINALLY GET THE 
AMERICAN EXPRESS CARD.
Page 8—The Tartan—April 16, 1985
Booklet to aid CFA graduates with job search
By STEPHEN VOLAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
“Job-hunting is a frustrating, time- 
consuming, .and sometimes expensive pro­
position, made more so by students who go 
about it haphazardly. It is important to 
think of job-hunting as an investment of 
time, hard work and planning: a job will not 
drop into your lap after the first month of 
hunting so you really will have to go out and 
look for it.”
No segment of the CMU student popula­
tion is more concerned about its future than 
the members of the College of Fine Arts. For 
many Fine Arts disciplines, openings in the 
job market are few and far-between; without 
a little knowledge or a little help from their 
friends, many get nowhere fast.
Enter the office of Dean Akram Midani. 
Since 1978, it has put out a small, square 
booklet, entitled Presentation of Fine Arts 
Graduates. Starting with the quote above, 
the booklet gives a no-nonsense outline to 
aggressive job searching.
The booklet “is free to all graduating 
students in Fine Arts,” said Dean Midani, 
“who wish to develop a strategy, tools, and 
resumes toward their search for a career in 
their respective disciplines.” It discusses 
aspects of self-presentation in a number of 
different categories, including resumes and 
cover letters as well as compiling and presen­
ting portfolios, photos for drama graduates, 
audition tapes for musicians, licensing pro­
cedures for architects, and examples of 
previous Fine Arts graduates.
The booklet is available in the Dean’s Of­
fice in the College of Fine Arts.
PRESENTATION 
MAMUSICAROF 
TAR FINE ART 
QHGRADUATE
This booklet, Presentation of Fine Arts Graduates, is free to all of CFA’s graduating students. It is designed to help them find j 
jobs and develop career plans.
261-6056
Help us adopt a baby!
We offer an attractive legal 
alternative to the agency adop­
tion process. We are a couple 
who can give your baby a lov­
ing, secure family. We have a 
comfortable home, in a 
beautiful, safe neighborhood 
near Pitsburgh, and we want a 
baby more than anything else 
in the world. We can pay all 
medical, counseling, and legal 
expenses.
Please call: 531-9303
Attention Photographers
B&W Fiber Paper 
Available at 
discount price * 
call
The Darkroom 
232 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER
CALL683 — 3555
¦ f VMil \ I AW l»«VOK(>
¦ W KSi»N VI INJt H V¦ (KIM1NVI 11« IKIAl
MURRAY A. FELDERA I ll)K\t \ \ I I.AW
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND
If you’ve been wanting the American 
Express Card for some time, this is some 
time to apply.Because if you’re a senior, all you need is to accept a $10,000 career-oriented job. 
That’s it No strings No gimmicks 
(And even if you don f have a job right 
now, don’t worry. This offer is still good for 
12 months after you graduate.) Why is 
American Express making the Card a 
little easier for seniors to get9 
Well, to pul it simply we b< 
lieve in your future And this 
a good time to she»-
can help in a lot of ways as you graduate. 
The Card can help you be ready for busi­
ness. It's a must for travel to meetings and 
entertaining. And to entertain yourself, 
you can use it to buy a new wardrobe for 
work or a new stereo
The Card can also help you establish 
your credit history, which can help in 
your future
So cal! 1-800-528-4800 and ask to have 
:ia! Student Application sent 
to you Or look for one on ciimpus. 
The American Exptess Card. 
Don’t leave school without it.SM
aSpf

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan—Page 9
Student feels computers are stressed too heavily
continued from page 7
centrating on the development of the new 
workstation.
The new workstation will be a very power­
ful machine which will significantly increase 
the computing power available to students. 
But how many students need this computing 
power? This compares to using a Lam­
borghini or Ferrari when all you need is a 
Volkswagen.
Many students have voiced the opinion
that the University is stressing the computing 
aspect much too much. They would rather 
get z well balanced education, and would 
like to see the University divide its resources 
more evenly among the various departments 
and colleges. This is not to say that students 
and professors alike do not think that the 
computer network planned for the campus 
will be useful. They do think that the 
University is putting too much emphasis on 
it at the present time.
Greek groups host special children 
for Spring Carnival
By MELISSA LAMONT
JFC Correspondent
Five children staying at the Ronald 
McDonald House and their families will be 
the guests of the CMU Greeks at Spring Car­
nival this year.
The families will be permitted to ride on 
the amusements and to play the games for 
free. They will also be taken to the buggy 
races.
This is not the only community service 
that the Greeks have done this year. Greek 
Sing raised $3500, which was given to the 
Altzheimer’s Foundation. Two Blood Drives 
have also been held, and the Central Blood 
Bank of Pittsburgh received the donations.
Other Greek organizations have done or are 
planning community or philanthropy 
related services.
Some events include the upcoming 
Miracle Mile fundraiser, to be held April 27, 
sponsored by Theta Xi and Kappa Alpha 
Theta; the March 29th blood drive held by 
Alpha Tau Omega; the mixer at Beta Theta 
Pi held to benefit the March of Dimes; and, 
currently, Sigma Alpha Epsilon is sponsor­
ing a child in Africa through World Vision.
Next semester, the IFC is planning to con­
tinue its community services by further work 
with children’s groups and other related pro­
jects in the campus area.
A name and a few more tacts. That’s all we’re really asking of the two million young men who will turn 18 this year. After all, there’s no draft. So if someone you know should 
be registering, remind them that it only takes five minutes at the post office. And. it helps keep our country strong.
Register with Selective Service. Ifsqaick. It’s easy. And it’s the law.
Presented as a Pubbc Service AraKXHKement by the Selective Service System.
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION • ANXIETY • LONELINESS • ANGER • CAREER DOUBTS
• FAMILY TROUBLES • DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS • 
SEXUAL QUESTIONS • MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS
• LACK OF MOTIVATION • SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patients are students.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi­
dential psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Brown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
%
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center
211 N. Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 A private clinic in the public service
Tutors needed
for walk-in tutoring service 
in the fall. 
Subject Areas: 
•Calculus • Physics 
•Chemistry «English/ 
Writing
High QPA required in tutoring subject. 
Su-Th 7:00 pm -10:00 pm; $3.50 per hour 
Contact the Counseling Center (x2922)
WANTED: Several Bachelors/Bach- 
elorettes available during Spring 
Carnival to play The Dating Game.
A chance to win a date with your 
very woman/man of your very own 
choice.
Who will be the lucky one? 
Bachelor/Bachelorette number one, 
two, or three.
Day:April18 
Time: 7:00 p.m.
Prizes Awarded 
Questions can be submitted but are 
chosen with the help of our
producers.
Submit names to Skibo 
Desk by April 12 
or call Karen x4621.
rPratt School of Art & Design______________Summer Study Abroad
Photography in Israel June 28-juty 26.1985 $2.335
Landscape, portrait, nude, & various approaches to photoreportage. Excursions 
to Masada, Jerusalem & The North of Israel. Offered in collaboration with 
Camera Obscura in Tel Aviv.
Fine Arts in Venice June 26-juiy 28.1985 $2.550
Painting, drawing, sculpture & Venetian art history. Includes Palladian Villa tour 
and excursion to Ravenna & Padua.
Total Design in Mitan Ju»y 8-August 2.1985 $2.825
Design history, theory & criticism, & studio work offered in collaboration with the 
Domus Academy. Critics: Ettore Sottsass, Gaetano Pesce, Alessandro Mendini. 
Andrea Branzi, Rodolfo Bonetto, Mario Bellini, & Pierre Restany. Visits to design 
facilities, production factories, & cities of interest to the contemporary designer.
• 6 College credits
• Professional facilities
• Deluxe accommodations
Pratt faculty 
Internationally renowned visiting lecturers 
Regularly scheduled airlines
For brochures or information, call D. Freed, (718) 636-3619 20 or 
mail the coupon below.
pratt
D. Freed, Pratt School of Art of Design 
200 Willoughby Ave. Brooklyn, NY 11205.
Please send me a brochure on:
O Photography in Israel Q Fine Arts in Venice G Total Design in Milan
Name.
Address- 
City____-State..Zip Code--------------

---------------------------------------------------

Could you use an extra $25?
Of course you could! All you 
have to do is design a poster to 
advertise the the tutoring pro­
gram here at CMU. Submit your 
design to the Counseling Center 
by May 1st and the winning 
design will get $25. If you have 
any questions, contact Dave at
X4727.
PARDU V.
A\S>
KEEP YOUR 
HEADPHONES 
IN PLACE.
HEADPHONE-SECURING CAPS
TRAKHAT ees 
Available at the Carnegie-Mellon Bookstore
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday 
7:00 - 10:00 PMPH 225BCALCULUS
PRE, I, II, III 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGLISH WRITING 
INTRO TO COMPUTING 
Sponsored by Student Affairs and 
Counseling and Student Development 
Center.
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
PH 125B 
WeH 5415
WRCT 88.3 FM
proudly announces
1985
Carnival Programming
including:
-Live Coverage of all the Action on the Midway!
Starting Thursday at 5 pm 
-Live Coverage of Sweepstakes both Friday and 
Saturday mornings at 8:45 am 
-And LOTS of special giveaways on the Midway 
including shirts, records, and the all-new 
WRCT buttons! j
Take your radio with you wherever you go this Carnival, and keep it tuned to 88.3 FM for 
aH the action!Funded toy Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
U2’s “white flag” flies higher than ever in 
1985, its pacifist symbolism embraced by 
scores of youths at each stop on the bands 
current American tour. Gone are the white 
flags Bono used to clutch on stage. In con­
trast to past years when a certain degree of 
audience passivity met the band’s exhorta­
tions, a new legion of excited young fans 
waves the flag. U2 carefully avoids preten­
sion, refusing to ram its beliefs down anyone’s 
throat. The show’s stark, spacious stage 
design amplifies this by providing an 
unobstructed view of the band, which, in 
turn, promotes active audience involvement 
whether positive or negative by choice. U2 
continues to invite important, timely 
discussion.
One cannot help but be captivated by U2’s 
unending faith in a utopian civilization 
minus violence, hunger, and discrimination. 
Such is the place Bono describes in “A Sort 
Of Homecoming,” a song containing 
perhaps his most universal lyrics and one 
which establishes an emotional bond be­
tween the band and the faithful in the au­
dience who constitute a community of 
idealists. As a preface to one of his songs, 
Bono revives the forgotten 1940s concept of 
world government as one possible way to pre­
vent war and unite all peoples.
While merely offering possibilities and not 
definitive solutions, U2 remains a band 
unafraid to speak its mind and act in ways 
pleasing to it and its audience. Justifiably, 
the band is not content to perform live 
without provoking some audience reaction. 
After all, effective rock and roll music is in­
tended to put people in a celebratory mood. 
Backstage at the Civic Arena in Pittsburgh 
following U2’s April 9th show, both Bono 
and bassist Adam Clayton are still perturb­
ed by the unfortunate events which occurred 
at the Capital Centre the previous night. 
Clayton views the Pittsburgh and D.C. con­
certs as more spiritual and “emotional” suc­
cesses than “rock and roll” successes. He ex-
Bono’s powerful and emotional voice entranced U2’s fans at the Civic Arena.
plains that Bono invited people down to the 
front of the stage after arena security had 
restricted them to their seats. Police 
threatened to stop the concert and place the
band under arrest for inciting a riot. Clayton 
tries to dismiss the incident, while Bono 
grimaces at the memory of it. Clayton is 
pleased to discover that folks in Pittsburgh
The Spectator takes a look at Zelda
By JONATHAN STEELE
Special to The Tartan 
Zelda! is a new musical by CMU graduate 
Colette Silvestri that attempts to tell the story 
of the stormy marriage between Zelda Sayre 
and F. Scott Fitzgerald. Although there are 
a cc>uple of good musical numbers, overall 
the play does not hold water. First, the play 
does not follow clearly the development of
The Spectator
Zelda and Scott’s relationship. At times, it 
dramatizes less important incidents and only 
mentions important events in passing.
Fitzgerald is considered the literary sym­
bol and spokesman for the “Jazz Age” — the 
20 s. Part of the fascination with his work 
comes from the close relationship between 
the gay, mad, gin-drinking, morally and 
sPintually bankrupted characters in his 
Works and his own life. This sense of tragic 
dissipation is missing in Zelda!
The plot and treatment smacks of 20’s and 
0s musicals. This can be fun as an aura of 
Nostalgia, but in Zelda! it becomes the weak 
famework that the uninspired songs and 
tCPid Scenes are hung upon. We simply don’t 
8et the feeling of F. Scott Fitzgerald as a 
ra^c. passionate artist. The story of his first 
SUccess, the novel This Side of Paradise, was 
eated as a mere publishing problem con- 
^Cted with a change 6f tkle, rather than as 
^passioned work that had jenormous im.-.
mediate impact upon his generation. The 
treatment of Zelda Sayre and the 20’s was 
simply too sweet to convey the tragic sweep 
of her life.
The production, directed by James Berry 
had its problems. (Berry’s bio was not in the 
program — usually a sign of conflict between 
director and author.) The Skibo Ballroom, 
the site of the production, lent the air of a 
Dinner Theatre to the show. The under­
rehearsed scenes and songs, and some 
carelessness in production values, fit this 
milieu. The piano player stumbled several 
times during the overture, and the small or­
chestra was placed badly to the side and 
middle of the house. The set was paltry, but 
serviceable. The props were blatantly below 
par: the drinking glasses were outrageously 
unsuitable, as were book instead of stick 
matches. The costumes, however, were fine.
Mr. Berry’s direction was too busy at 
times. He utilized a one-note mood of 
musical comedy throughout, and more sen­
sitivity in the scenes between Zelda and Scott 
would have helped. The play is named 
Zelda!, but there is a difficulty in trying to 
keep the focus on Zelda Sayre when a per­
sonality with the fascination and charisma 
of F. Scott Fitzgerald shares the stage with 
her equally. Miss Silvestri did not develop or 
focus Zeldas character enough.
The choreography by Joseph Milliren was . deeem.. but it. .along with the actors per­
formances, was difficult to critique since I 
sensed that they simply had not been 
rehearsed sufficiently.
The idea of doing a Jazz Age musical bas­
ed on the relationship between Zelda Sayre 
and F. Scott Fitzgerald is a fascinating one. 
Unfortunately, Zelda! does not do it justice.
were indeed free to let loose and enjoy the 
show.
Aspects such as security are virtually alien 
to Clayton while on stage. Since he sees the 
audience only periodically “depending which 
light is turned on,” he relies on receiving 
strong responses, from the audience. One 
such response during the Pittsburgh show 
Clayton recalls rather bitterly b a particular 
T-shirt handed to Bono. After years of in­
dicating U2’s anti-war position on record, in 
concert, and in interviews, Clayton finds it 
ridiculous for someone not to have 
understood and to offer a shirt promoting 
a violent solution to the turmoil in Northern 
Ireland. Standing by Bono’s angry reaction, 
he views the act as purely malicious, “intend­
ed to provoke Bono.”
On a brighter note, Clayton is gratified 
and impressed by the public’s embrace of 
The Unforgettable Fire, an album display­
ing more artistry than hit potential. He ap­
preciates its excellent sales record and at­
tributes this an audience which sees beyond 
AOR’s short-sightedness and the failure of 
“Pride (In The Name Of Love)” to dominate 
the Top 40 market. He chuckles in agree­
ment at my observations of his girl-watching 
in the “A Sort Of Homecoming” video. 
Moreover, he confirms U2’s new acceptance 
of each member’s individuality.
Thé band continues to value its ground 
roots supporters, especially college radio. 
Bono and Clayton both reaffirm this to me 
among the gathering of local commercial 
radio and retail folks. In addition, they 
reveal important record news concerning the 
impending release of a 12-inch EP in Bri­
tain set to include the live video version of 
“A Sort Of Homecoming” and four previous­
ly unissued tracks from The Unforgettable 
Fire sessions. Not scheduled for domestic 
release, the EP should be “best suited for col­
lege radio,” Bono says, and will feature an 
Afropop number reminiscent of King Sun­
ny Ade. As far as U2’s future recording plans 
go, Bono “hasn’t got a clue,” while Edge ad­
mits he would be interested in working with 
Brian Eno again.
Perhaps the most impressive thing about 
U2 is the band’s continuous channeling of 
its enormous energy toward postitive pur­
suits, which include remaining outside the 
“conceited star” trip. Bono’s deeply felt 
Catholicism, while not chief among the 
band’s themes, colors his songs with a strong 
sense of love for humankind and an endur­
ing faith in the future. U2 inspires us. to 
celebrate our ethereal dreams, which the 
band sees as realistically attainable.
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
November Group—Work That Dream 
(A&M)
The Boston duo’s third release, its first for 
A&M, works hard to quiet electro-dance 
skeptics by featuring action-packed tunes 
delivered with gusto. Collaborating with 
German musicians and a German producer, 
the November Group maintains an accessi­
ble Eurodance sound, while promoting the 
American work ethic in its lyrics. “Work 
That Dream” is simply irresistible for its craf­
ty blend of funk and jungle-driven 
percussion.
Meat Puppets—Up On The Sun (SST)
Another top notch release on the currently 
prospering indie SST label. Phoenix’s Meat 
Puppets have abandoned their former hard­
core image for a more musically 
demonstrative approach, relying heavily on 
acoustic and gentle sounds. Their en­
thusiasm for country & western music as well 
as funk reaches the foreground. Curt
Kirkwood espouses innocently simple lyrics 
which echo the crux of youth — daydreams 
and leisurely warm weather frolic.
Big Black — Racer-X (Homestead) 
Chicago’s premier chainsaw guitar band 
delivers a wild and wooly new six-cut disk. 
Astroboy Albini recognizes the awful 
realities within all of us but lets his “knife 
guitar” do most of the talking. With some 
synthesized rhythms and electronics, the 
tunes bang the gong and provide for ade­
quate body movement. Big Blacks original 
brand of dance noise continues to impress 
folks, even the mild-mannered ones.
Various Artists — More Mondo (Dolphin) 
Thirteen distinct artists comprise this im­
pressive sequel to Mondo Montage, Dolphins 
first compilation of Southern talent. Record­
ed in six studios with fifteen producers, in­
cluding the brilliant Don Dixon, the LP runs 
the gamut of stylings and treatments. Stan­
dout acts include UV Prom, Fetchin Bones, 
Rick Rock-, and The'Pressure Boys: •
U2 concert captivates audience with peace

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—April 16, 1985
S'n' S: Zelda fails to fulfill its potential
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
The Jazz Age lives again in the Scotch n’ 
Soda production of Colette Silvestri’s Zelda! 
The musical, directed byjames Berry, open­
ed last Thursday at the Skibo Ballroom.
Zelda! is the story of Zelda Sayre Fit­
zgerald, the wife of writer F. Scott Fitzgerald, 
who took the New York social scene by storm 
and became the prototypical 1920’s flapper. 
We meet Zelda (played by Susan Ingerman) 
as a sassy girl in Montgomery, Alabama dur­
ing World War I. While on leave, aspiring 
young novelist Fitz (Mark Simens) becomes 
infatuated with the audacious Zelda (“grace 
and chastity are just plain agony”) and they 
soon fall in love. For Zelda, Fitz is a way out 
of her life in the languid South, while Fitz 
finds in Zelda the inspiration for the 
memorable female characters that 
populated his novels during his entire career 
as a writer.
The Fitzgeralds spend the first years of 
their turbulent marriage cruising the 
speakeasies of Prohibition-era New York. 
The vibrant Zelda becomes the highlight of 
the 1920’s high society. But basking in the 
limelight as the free-wheeling wife of a 
famous writer is not enough. Zelda writes a 
number of short stories, in collaboration 
with her husband and on her own, but in 
this male-dominated world they are ac­
cepted only on the condition that they ap­
pear under Fitz’s name alone. Overshadow­
ed by such luminaries as her husband and 
their friend, songwriter Cole Porter 
(Christopher Quigley), Zelda is stifled as an 
individual, prevented from reaching her full 
potential as a creative artist.
Debt-ridden and drained, the Fitzgeralds 
move to France to escape the chaos of 
Manhattan. There they meet Cole Porter 
and writer Ernest Hemingway (Bruce
Zelda (Susan Ingerman) and her husband F. Scott Fitzgerald (Mark Simens).
Moore). Fitz carouses with Porter and Hem­
ingway while Zelda futilely attempts to 
rekindle her early promise as a dancer. 
Despite their hopes of renewed life in France, 
their marriage is doomed; thery are locked 
in a symbiotic relationship, not of mutual 
giving but of mutual taking. Fitz exploits 
Zelda in his novels, using her life and her 
turmoil, dependent on her for his vitality as 
a writer. Zelda, on the other hand, is con­
demned to be nothing more than the wife 
of F. Scott Fitzgerald and the companion of 
Porter and Hemingway. Paralleling the 
decline of their marriage, the gaiety of the 
Roaring Twenties is rudely ended by the 
Great Depression and a decade of despair. 
Like the world, Zelda descends into 
madness.
Intriguing as this sounds, it is not 
developed with any depth. The story pro­
ceeds mechanically from production 
number to production number; the 
characters failed to come alive. Things pick 
up some in the second half, vvith Zelda’s 
madness. The mood of quiet despair and 
longing for the past is conveyed much more 
effectively than the devil-may-care times of 
the early years of the Fitzgeralds’ marriage.
As Zelda, Susan Ingerman doesn’t really 
look the part, but the spunk and energy she 
brings to the part, and a full, strident sing-
Woody Allen:
ing voice make up for that. Mark Simens is 
convincing as Fitz, but he is often over­
shadowed by the more charismatic figures 
of Quigley’s Cole Porter and Moore’s
loutishly macho Hemingway.
The music for Zelda! includes a couple of 
nice tunes, including the catchy “How Smart 
continued on page 26
The Purple Rose of Cairo
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
You settle into your seat, popcorn in hand
— the lights darken — the big screen blazes 
to life — and suddenly you are plunged 
into an exciting, carefree world of sauve men 
and glamorous women, leaving your 
troubles far behind. The magic of the 
movies is the subject of Woody Allen’s latest
movie, The Purple Rose of Cairo, an en­
chanting and very funny fantasy-comedy 
from the man who brought you Sleeper and 
Zelig.
The time is the 1930’s: the Great Depres­
sion, soup lines, unemployment, and little 
hope for the future. Meanwhile, on the silver 
screen men and women dance and drink
champagne, and bold heroes adventure in 
far-off lands. Cecilia (Mia Farrow) lives in 
the dreary world of reality, waiting tables 
and trying to scrape up enough money to 
support herself and her unemployed hus­
band, Monk (Tony Aiello). But every night 
she escapes to the Jewel Theater, to the glitz 
and glamour of the movies, 
continued on page 13
I#.
Contact Capt Michael Lacroix, Ext. 8747, Rm PH-15
ROTCFORCEAIR
Gateway to a great way of life.
The Air Force is searching for people who want the instant responsibility that comes with 
being a missile officer. Our missile officers command the land-based strategic missiles - a
vital link in our national defense.
Air Force ROTC can help prepare you for this responsibility. We have scholarship programs 
which help defray the cost of college - plus a tax-free allowance eact month during the school 
term.
If you want to experience true pride and commitment, wear the silver badge of an Air Force 
missileer. Talk to your Air Force ROTC campus representative today.

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan-Page 13
‘Mutilimi
¦ i, I i 11 • i I ' ' ' '
pdweir
Foreigner comes to the Civic Arena
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
Don’t let their name fool you — Foreigner 
is no stranger to success. Probably one of the 
most consistent groups around (five albums: 
four multi-platinum and one gold), 
Foreigner will rock the Civic Arena on April 
30th with the sounds from their newest 
album; Agent Provocateur. Guiffria, who 
appeared in February with Deep Purple, will 
open.
“Provocateur,” released late last year, is 
fastly proving itself worthy of the Foreigner 
label — in fact it just might be their best 
work to date. Describing the new LP, the 
group’s backbone and founder, Mick Jones 
comments, “an evolution, a natural develop­
ment of some of the things we were starting 
to think about on the ‘4’ album (their 
previous work). The rock end has become 
more brutal . .. while the slower, more 
melodic things have become more refined.”
Though the sound might be different, 
success isn’t. Already the first single “I Want 
To Know What Love Is” has captured the 
top spot across the country. Although the 
single has since been dethroned, their next 
mass release, “That Was Yesterday,” is clim­
bing the charts quickly.
All this instant success may seem over­
whelming, but for Foreigner it is “just 
another day at the office.” The band’s first 
album, “Foreigner,” was an instant success. 
With mega-hits like: “Feels Like The First 
Time” and “Cold As Ice,” Foreigner quickly
Woody Allen
continued from page 12
One day a new movie called The Purple 
Rose of Cairo opens, and Cecilia is thrilled: 
it’s a delightfully empty-headed epic of 
Manhattan socialites, mysterious women, 
and dashing men. She comes to see it night 
after night. On her fifth viewing, something 
strange happens. One of the characters, 
adventurer Tom Baxter (Jeff Daniels), 
decides that he’s had enough of reliving the 
same story over and over, so he walks out of 
the screen and into the life of Cecilia.
Chaos, of course, ensues. The audience 
is unnerved, the other characters in the 
movie are annoyed, and back in Hollywood, 
the actor who played Baxter, Gil Shepard, 
is worried about the impact this will have 
on his blossoming career.
Hiding from the authorities and studio ex­
ecutives, Tom Baxter finds out, through 
Cecilia, that the real world operates a bit 
differently from the universe of celluloid. 
Cars .don’t start up immediately, men fight 
dirty and romantic interludes don't end with 
slow fadeouts. And no one except Cecilia 
wants him here. Cecilia’s husband pursues 
him, and the other characters of the movie 
get bored and begin to contemplate their ex­
istences as imaginary people.
The Purple Rose of Cairo is only the se­
cond movie Woody Allen directed in which 
he himself does not play a character, but 
Allen has selected a fine cast in his place. 
Mia Farrow may not have the same magnetic 
screen presence as Diane Keaton, Allen’s 
previous mistress/leading lady, but she is 
much more versatile an actress, and she cap­
tures perfectly the wistful dreaminess of 
Cecilia. Jeff Daniels (Debra Winger’s hus­
band in Terms of Endearment) is cheerful­
ly two-dimensional as the pith-helmeted 
Tom Baxter while conveying another kind 
of shallowness in the role of the duplicitous 
Gil Shepard.
Allen has become less cynical since the 
days of Annie Hall, where he divided life in 
two categories, the horrible and the 
miserable. Life off the screen may still be 
bleak, but while there are movies to make 
us laugh and forget, we can find just a little 
bit of hope.
took its rightful place among today’s 
premiere rock bands.
One year later, the band produced its se­
cond hit album, “Double Vision.” The title 
might suggest differently, but the album’s 
singles — “Hot Blooded” and the title track 
“Double Vision” — were all successes. In the 
following years, Foreigner made three more 
albums; Head Games, 4, and a greatest hits 
albums Records. All of these albums were 
well recieved and further proved that 
anything vinyl that Foreigner touches turns 
to gold.
Looking beyond their hit singles, you will 
find the real reasons for Foreigners success 
— depth and versatility. You will not find 
a single weak song on any one of their disks.
To quote Mick Jones, the founder, “We try 
to just forge on through — keep a standard 
going and improve on it. We’ve got such a 
strong feeling within the band that stands 
up to time and trend. We strive to make it 
as genuine and original as far as we can.” 
No matter what their secret to success is, it’s 
easy to see that Foreigner knows how to keep 
the hits coming.Foreigner and special guest Guiffria appear April 30th at the Civic Arena.
THIS BUD'S 
FOR YOU.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—April 16, 1985
Presidential Platforms
By serving as a Student Senator since last March, I 
have realized that if student representatives care 
enough, and work hard enough, life can be made easier 
at CMU. As Student Government President, I will work 
very hard to serve you. However, in addition to serving 
the student body, I shall attempt to bring to CMU a 
fresh attitude and new ideas about how to improve stu- 
d-,it life at CMU.
For the last six months I’ve been Chairman of the 
Senate General Campus and Information Committee. 
As Chairman, I’ve met with administrators and staff 
from all parts of CMU. From Dr. Cyert, Dr. Crecine, 
Deans Cox and Walter, to Physical Plant, Hunt Library, 
and the Security department, I’ve worked to solve your 
problems. When students complained about snow not 
being shoveled on weekends, signs being torn down by 
Physical Plant, library study rooms potentially being 
closed, possible biases in the student disciplinary pro­
cess, and the dangerous traffic intersections throughout 
campus, I took successful action to solve these problems. 
I was there to serve you. Furthermore, I am currently 
planning a protest of President Reagan’s proposed 
financial aid cuts. Also, I am a member of the Campus 
Pub Committee, in which we are planning a student 
social center for the Highlander Room at Skibo.
As Student Government President I will implement 
many different ideas about how to improve life at CMU. 
These ideas will rely strongly on my experience and en­
thusiasm for their» successful implementation. For 
example:
Students should be made aware that they do have in­
put into issues at CMU and that they can affect results. 
As President I will work to accomplish this. In addi­
tion to writing a weekly article for the Tartan, I would 
also like to host a weekly radio show on WRCT. 
Students could call up and suggest ways of improving 
life around here. And periodically, an administrator 
could join me on the radio and respond to questions 
and complaints. Students have a strong voice in issues; 
as President I will make sure that voice comes through.
As Student Government President, I will work to 
unify the campus. By establishing a committee con­
sisting of representatives from different colleges and 
departments, we could work together to plan activities 
for all students, and to increase contact between the col­
leges. I will also work to increase coordination between 
the different student organizations on campus. By 
establishing a committee containing representatives of 
the major student organizations we would meet regular­
ly to discuss ways of improving student life.
These are some of the basic ideas that I will imple­
ment as President. Not all changes will occur overnight, 
but we’ve got to start somewhere. By combining my ex­
perience in solving your problems along with my ideas 
and a strong desire to be receptive to your ideas, I feel 
that I will make a good Student Government President.
This is not a typical campaign speech, so don’t stop 
reading! I know you people are sick and tired of hear­
ing all the same promises of experience, leadership, 
lower tuition, and unifying the campus. I’ll be honest! 
There are problems and there are problems'. Yes. I agree 
100% that tuition should be lower, but let’s face facts, 
the minds of Warner Hall are not going to be chang­
ed. Students have tried for years to no avail. There are, 
however, plenty of problems on this campus that can 
and should be solved by the President of Student 
Government.
The foremost problem is the lack of communication 
between Senate and the constituency. It is the Presi­
dent’s responsibility to help bridge this gap. I will ac­
complish this with a WRCT call-in show, many office 
hours(where anyone is welcome), and a regular column 
in the Tartan.
One of the President’s most important tasks is to add 
alcohol to the student pub opening up in the fall. I have 
been actively arguing to add alcohol to the pub’s menu, 
of which I am in charge. A vote for me is a vote to con­
tinue this fight straight to Warner Hall.
One very important problem that faces this campus 
that doesn’t receive nearly as much attention as it should 
is “safety.” Students are becoming less and less secure 
about walking home at night, especially if they live off- 
campus. The so-called Escort service on campus is 
pitiful! The one very important issues on which the 
President can apply pressure is this! Either shape up the 
Escort service or bring on the Guardian Angelsl I would 
much rather see CMU security or students solve this pro­
blem, but if it can’t be handled properly, the safety of 
you, the students, comes first. Something must be 
done....
There are a couple of other problems that face 
students. First, the student and administration should 
work together, not against each other. The concept of 
“trust” would help all those involved. And secondly, one 
problem that faces all students is the high price of on- 
campus stores. There has to be a more effective way to 
run the on-campus monopolies (The Book Store, The 
Co-op, etc....). Their prices are astronomical. For the 
amount we pay intuition, should we be charged such 
high prices? This is something I think the President can 
actually affect.
I hope all this has convinced you to go out and vote 
for me. If not, I will keep trying. Stop me as I walk by, 
call me up, come to the debate, whatever. .. . You may 
think your vote doesn’t count much, but I believe it can 
make a difference. It takes just thirty seconds to vote 
and possibly change the course of history.
April 16 & 17
Presidential/Senatorial Elections
Come out and vote!
photo* by Olve Ptcrsen
Karen Lee
WHY? IS THERE JUSTIFICATION? These are the 
questions I will ask the administration before they make 
decisions that concern our student body. The goal in 
asking these questions is to establish more effective chan­
nels of communication between you and the administra­
tion. I want the administration to listen and consider 
your views and feelings. In turn, I want you to unders­
tand why the administration took a certain action and 
question them if the case is warranted. The key to ef­
fective communication is a two-way street. Both sides 
must have some understanding of why the other feels 
a certain way, requesting changes only after giving ade­
quate reasoning. As President, I will be the primary and 
effective liaison between you and the administration.
I want to present a united stand, representing a “we” 
instead of an “I”. In taking a “we” approach, your views 
will have more of an impact on the adminstration that 
that of an “I” approach. To accomplish this, you need 
to know what is going on in the administration. I will 
use The Tartan and WRCT more effectively as the ma­
jor communicators of information, but also use the other 
60 organizations and Resident Assistants to help 
disseminate the information you need in understanding 
and asking the adminstration why. I will also ask them 
what their members or residents’ concerns are. All I need 
to know is your view. I will also place Student Govern­
ment Suggestion Boxes in Skibo, Donner, and 
Morewood, and have myself available to you at least 5 
hours per week at times convenient to your schedules. 
This will give more of you a chance to express your views 
directly to me. Proposed actions to be taken:
- Create an Auxiliary Service Committee to voice your 
concerns about such services as the Bookstore, Art Store, 
Co-Op, and Entropy.
- Improve campus life by getting more organizations 
to sponsor and work together in providing more events 
for the whole campus.
- Continue Bill McCormick’s role in ascertaining our 
needs that are addressed in the university’s $200 million 
capital drive, such as new wet labs for chemistry and 
biology, renovation of Skibo, and building of a new 
athletic center.
- Inform you of how student activities fees are spent 
as well as other important issues.
- Get more diversified group of senators. Having 
departments, classes, and more organizations 
represented as well as colleges.
-Evaluate Humanities and Social Sciences, IM, 
Fine Arts student’s career placement needs.
- Assess the needs of commuter students. 
QUALIFICATIONS:
- Student Representative to ^he CMU Trustees
- Member of University Disciplinary Committee
- Good Workine relationship with administrators
- Good relationship with many of the current organ" 
zations, Resident Assistants, students and faculty
- Resident Assistant
- Active member and committee chairperson of several 
organizations
- Attendance jn Student Senate, SDC, AB, 1FC and 
Spring Carnival Meetings
- Knowledge of campus and of how to get things donf
- Enthusiastic, energetic and hard working
Peter CohenSeth Kaplan

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan—Page 15
SENATORIAL CANDIDATES
CFA — 2 seats
No candidates
CIT — 4 seats
David Goldstein
No statement
Andy Lee 
No picture 
No statement
Tamal Mukherjee
I’m running for re-election because I 
would like to devote the time, energy, and 
experience I have to serving you, by improv­
ing the overall quality of your experiences 
here. Since I do not have any commitments, 
I have a large amount of such resources. I 
will try to get information about decisions 
concerning students to you, before the deci­
sion is made, so that the issues you think are 
important can be acted upon. I will use the 
knowledge I have of people who can act, to 
make sure your ideas and problems are 
acted upon. A vote for me will be a vote for 
yourself. Please consider me, Tamal 
Mukherjee, when you vote!
joe Murphy
you know who your Student Senators 
are? Most people don’t. I think the Student 
er>ate should have more direct communica- 
with the student body and that s why 
m running for CIT Representative.
H&SS — 3 seats
Seana Chun
Hi! Believe it or not I’m glad to be here 
at CMU. As a transfer student and former 
Senator from Smith College, I’ve realized 
that student input is an effective means of 
voicing complaints and attempting to 
change the status quo. I’ve encountered 
both good (e.g.: the people of CMU) and 
bad (e.g.: indigestion at Kiltie Cafe) here 
at CMU. I would like to try to turn the many 
heard complaints from students into at­
tempted changes to improve campus life for 
all. I will do my best to serve you if elected. 
Please vote Seana Chun for H&SS Senate. 
THANKS!
Brett F. Whysel
For the college of humanities and social 
sciences, I can make a difference as student 
senator. Student government at Carnegie - 
Mellon University has great unrealized 
potential as both a representative and tool 
of the student body. With your help, I can 
make the senate work for us. Last semester, 
I responded to what I perceived to be the 
desires of my classmates and founded a stu­
dent organization funded by the body I seek 
election to. As student senator, I will work 
to make student government responsive to 
the interests, goals, and desires of students. 
Moreover, I will work to make the senate a 
more effective communicator of those in­
terests to the rest of the campus communi­
ty: the faculty, these student organizations, 
and, most importantly, the administration. 
I feel that I have some good ideas on how 
to accomplish these goals as well as the 
motivation to follow through with them. 
Let’s get the ball rolling and work towards 
making our senate and our university the 
best it can be.
IM — 1 seat
Hilary DeBroff
Hi there! My name is Hilary DeBroff and 
I am running for my second term as In­
dustrial Management Senator. In the past 
year of serving on Senate I have learned a 
great deal about how Student Government 
can work together to improve both the 
academic and social aspects of life here at 
CMU. I hope that I can continue in my work 
to represent my constituency to the best of 
my ability. Thank you.
Lydia Leovic
In the upcoming years, CMU will almost 
double its current size with new buildings 
(surrounding Skibo, near Morewood, and in 
back of Scaife). However, nothing extremely 
apparent is underway for the IM depart­
ment. As IM senator, I intend to focus my 
enthusiasm toward the concerns of IM 
students. Promises —I make none; I’ll simply 
do my best.
MCS — 3 seats
Michael Bett
Eric Rocher
I have been on Senate for one year. I 
would like very much to be on senate to help 
prepare a student’s guidebook which would 
give comments and evaluations of the 
courses and professor at CMU. I also would 
like to improve the relations between the ad­
ministration and students. I know that these 
issues are important and that you want 
something done about them. Please help me 
get reelected. Thank you.
David Salomon
No statement 
Michal Shuldiner
Hi! My name is Michal Shuldiner and I'm 
running for MCS senator. I think that 
Senate has the potential to be an even 
greater voice of the student view and I would 
like to be a part of that Senate. I would like 
to get involved in the issues that affect us. 
the students. Student Senate is a good wav 
to let your ideas and opinions be voiced, 
either as a Senator or bv telling vour ideas 
to your representative. I'd like to work 
towards student unitv. student involvement, 
and student participation.
My name is Michael Bett. and I am run 
ning for reelection in MCS Senate. During 
the past year I have served as Finance Chair­
man and Senate Chairman. As Finance 
Chairman I helped clubs when they needed 
extra money and to work out fair and 
reasonable budgets. More recently, as 
Chairman I have written a weekly column 
in The Tartan. I have served on the Aux­
iliary Services Committee. Presidential Stu­
dent Advisory Committee and several other 
committees. I try my best to keep students 
informed and to represent the students view­
point when dealing with administrators. If 
I am reelected. I promise to do mv best to 
act on behalf of the students. So please 
remember to vote Michael Bett. Thank you.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans win seventh straight relay title
Honse sets new CMU pole vault record; Short, Ridley lead runners
Bv BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Asst. Sportt Editor
The CMU Track team set a Conference 
record bv being the first team to win seven 
straight PAC Relax Championships. They 
defeated an over-confident but tough Grove 
Citv with a score of 122-96.
Joe Honse set a new school pole vaulting 
record of 13 9 ' on his way to achieving
his ultimate goal of 15 ' and a place at the 
Nationals. “The team really came together 
despite illness and injury." said Honse. "We 
complement each other."
Mike Short did an exceptional job anchor­
ing the distance medley, sprint medley and 
two-mile relays to first place finishes. He 
commented “In that many races you are 
really just looking to win. It was a really good 
workout. You have to save a lot. You cant 
give 100% every time you run. You can t pay 
real close attention to the times."
Notable performances were also turned in 
by the mile relay team led by Bob DiGioia 
and Chris Chen with a strong anchor by- 
George Ridley who had a split of 49.1 
seconds. According to Honse, “The runnners 
came through in a really tough time. Grove 
City weight guys are amazing.”
The track team has had difficulties with 
training this year. Not only have they been 
plagued with injuries and cold weather, but 
they work with less than satisfactory 
facilities.
Honse. a senior CivE, said, “They’ve been 
saying thevH build a new track since I was 
a freshman here. The coaching is pretty 
good but Sports is competing against 
Research for money'. Football creates the 
revenue for the other sports. They get what 
they deserve."
CMU never claimed to be a sports
photo by Peter Rosenfeld
Senior Joe Honse set a new CMU pole vault record with a jump of 13 feet 9 inches to help CMU win the PAC relays.
oriented school, and whatever improvements 
are made will never overshadow our 
neighbors. “It is a real letdown to come to 
college and have these kind of facilities,” said
Honse. A new track would spark campus in­
terest in fitness. Honse also points out that 
“With a new track we could go Division II.” 
Looking forward to the finals, Short feels
“It’s going to be very close with Grove City.” 
They really came together and are, on the 
whole, enthusiastic about their performance.
IM Report: track meet
The event everyone has been waiting for 
is finally upon us. The Intramural Track 
meet will be held on April 26 at 5:15 p.m. 
on the track. Special races will be run for 
women only. Everyone is welcome. Sign up 
the day of the meet. Races include sprints 
to long distances. If interested, there are 
openings for teams or individuals. Shot put, 
high jump and long jump will also be 
featured.
Delta Tau Delta defeated Delta Alpha 
Lambda for the title of Water Basketball 
Champions.
There will be an JM Banquet on April 25
in Room 100 of Skibo at 6:00 p.m. for board 
members and guests only. Sign-up on reser­
vation sheets in IM office.
The IM Fencing team is shaping up nice­
ly with 32 participants and 6 teams in their 
last competition.
Vince Carozza was nominated for next 
year’s President of the Board by Rob 
Fleischman. Rob Schnorr and Rob 
Fleischman were nominated for IM Man of 
the Year.
The last meeting of the year will be April 
18th at 2:00 p.m. in the IM office.
Local Sporting Events
photo by Olve Peerjen
Peter Hawk, the new tennis coach, led his team to two powerful wins this week.
The Bloomsburg Area YMCA and Dur- 
dach Bros, are hosting the 3rd Annual 
Genesee Light Triathlon in Bloomsburg on 
June 2, 1985. Registration will take place at 
the Bloomsburg Fair Grounds running from 
9:00-10:00 a.m. There will be individual 
awards, Team trophies, an Iron Man/Iron 
Woman award, T-shirts for all contestants. 
A four man/woman team, a two 
man/woman team will run five miles, then 
canoe a leg of four miles, and the bikers will 
travel 12 miles. Food will be sold.
The competition will be concentrated 
from the Bloomsburg Fair Grounds to the 
Susquehanna River, down River Road and 
out through Buckhorn before returning to 
the Fair Grounds.
Mark the date on your schedule and plan 
to attend. Call the Bloomsburg Area YMCA 
at 717-784-0188 between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday for more 
information.
The 1985 Citiparks Spring Tennis League 
program for men and women, 18 and over, 
will begin April 20 at the Schenley,
Highland, McKinley, Frick, and Mellon ten­
nis courts.
Phone registration is now underway for 
this six-week program, which offers tennis 
players the opportunity to improve their per­
formance through weekly competition.
Flexibly-scheduled matches can be ar­
ranged by competing players in singles, 
doubles, and/or mixed doubles leagues. 
Fixed match times can also be scheduled on 
a limited, first-come, first-serve basis. Players 
will compete within eight skill levels: ab­
solute beginner, advanced beginner, low in­
termediate, intermediate, advanced in­
termediate, advanced, highly advanced, and 
the best area players.
The league program gives many players 
a chance to be winners. The player or 
doubles team with the most wins at the 
season’s end will receive a plaque. The top 
two finishers will qualify for the champion­
ship playoffs. ,
The deadline for registration in the Spring 
Tennis League is April 8. For registration 
and details, call 371-7666.

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan—Page 17
'"Mtm
photo by Liz Johnson
fielder Bill Heiser looks dejected following two one-goal losses last week.This serve helped the Tartans defeat Hiram 9-0 and Duquesne 8-1
!mng Sports in II bloom; golf am wins title
(CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
I an Sports Editor
II CMU sports action this week, the Men’s 
Inis team, hampered by weather pro­
ps early this season, defeated Hiram and 
I uesne this week to raise their record to 
I The entire team played extremely well 
I 9-0 whitewashing of Hiram and a 8-1 
lover the Dukes. The next home match
his Saturday at 1:00 pm against 
lihington & Jefferson.
Golf team wins title 
I ;te Bombik finished second at the PAC 
| tational Golf Championships, at whichI
J took the team title, defeating John 
ol by three strokes, 398-401. Bombik 
hed in a tie for the gold medal, but was 
eated in a sudden death playoff. The 
team takes to the course again this 
I tend in the Griffin Invitational at Con- 
|it Lake.
¦omen’s Track makes good showing 
| ViU's Women's Track team was inI
m, Ohio Saturday for a five team meet, 
newfounded team finished second 
I nd Hiram, 190-133. Westminster College 
l-d 69 points, Case Western 46 and Thiel
rosse team having road troubles
^U’s Lacrosse club took two tough losses 
week. In a game at West Virginia 
ersity, the midfilders scored six goals, 
he Tartans had trouble on defense and 
[H0. Captain Dan Cohen said that the 
s new Coach, Irwin Klein, “has us more 
her offensively. Were running more 
>> so were less predictable.” The Tartans 
led by Bill Heiser, John Rickert and 
[ Johnson with two goals apiece. 
Sunday, the Tartans were beaten by 
any 8-7. despite giving up eight goals, 
team member said the defense of 
n- Mike Zawrotney and coverted mid- 
litch Weintraub played “their best game
e year.” Johnson had two goals for the
ins.
Deliver yourself and your student I.D. to any Fanny 
Farmer store. And we’ll deliver your Mother’s Day gift, 
FREE. Anywhere in the continental U.S.A. Just onier 
a purchase of $5.95 or more by May 1,1985. And you 
and your gift will be home free.
Remember Mother^ Day May 12.
CANDIES
Now it's even easier to show Mom you love her. Charge your Mother's Day gift on your American Express 
MasterCard or Visa Just call 231-0930 or come on in
?

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
M SuSS/i/A»i
Student Senate elections: voice your opinion
What the situation is...
The polls are open all day today and tomorrow. Once 
again, it’s time for us to take a look around at the 
students who want to be our elected leaders and choose 
the best ones for the available seats.
And once again, it’s time for us to hear the chorus 
of raspberries from the ever-growing peanut gallery. Will anyone ever take Senate elections seriously?
We’d like to think so. We’d like to think that everyone 
involved in an organization at CMU would take at least 
a passing interest in who decides their rules — and who 
controls their pocketbooks.
There was a heartening rise in election turnouts last 
year, when 24% of the student body voted. Although 
this number seems impressive, it could easily be explain­
ed by the recent notoriety of the alcohol scandal “un­
covered” by then-Senator Orpheus Allison, who, rather 
than formally protest a “happy hour” to be sponsored 
by Senate, called the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board 
and had the party “raided.” The four senators who were 
arrested for responsibiltity for the event later helped im­
peach Allison from his seat on Senate. The high tur­
nout mark for the April 1984 elections was not repeated 
in November, however, when less than 6% voted.
In an effort to reverse this apathetic trend, Senate has 
made efforts to increase student exposure to the elec­
tions WRCT broadcast last Wednesday’s Presidential 
Debate; The Tartan this week presents its perennial 
Senate supplement (see pages 14 and 15); and Senate 
has even provided a second polling place in front of 
Doherty Hall as well as in Skibo Grey Matter to attract 
more votes.
But you have to perform the most important task. You 
must mark the ballot. It’s so easy to do, too— why not 
get one on the way to lunch? Are two minutes a lot to ask?
...and who we support
There’s an interesting analogy between this year’s Stu­
dent Government Presidential campaign and the city of 
Pittsburgh’s recently-bestowed ranking as America’s most 
livable city. The best one isn’t necessarily the one with 
the best features, but the one with the fewest bad ones.
We have three candidates running for President: Peter 
Cohen, Seth Kaplan and Karen Lee. They are all bright, 
energetic, and truly interested in the job. They all per­
formed well in last Wednesday’s debate. They each have 
bad points as well as good, though, and the decision 
voters must make is who is the best all-around candidate.
Peter Cohen has plenty of Senate experience under 
his belt. He knows who to talk to, knows where to send 
someone with a question, and has made contact with 
many important members of the campus community. 
At the same time, however, his aggressive personality 
tends to grate on many people, and he has yet to 
demonstrate an ability to mediate in confusing situations.
Seth Kaplan is a one-track-minded candidate. His only 
platforms are obtaining an alcohol license for the Cam­
pus Pub and improving the Escort/ Shuttle service. 
While these are worthwhile goals, he does not seem to 
have any others. Furthermore, he feels that the Presi­
dent should only represent the views of his constituents, 
and never make any decisions based on his own judg­
ment; this attitude completely defeats the purpose of 
electing a President in the first place.
Karen Lee, though she has had little experience with 
Senate, has gained enough experience outside the Wher- 
rett Room to be a good President. She has been a leader 
in AB and the organization of Spring Carnival. She is 
easy to get along with, and good at getting along with 
others. She has the best understanding of the job of Presi­
dent, emphasizing the role of go-between for students 
and administrators, as well as pushing for better 
dissemination of information to students. For these 
reasons, The Tartan supports Karen Lee as the best 
candidate in this election.
ELECTION RULES AND REGULATIONS
1. RULES AND 
REGULATIONS:
a)The limit to campaign funds 
spent shall be thirty-five (35) 
dollars for a candidate for Stu­
dent Senate (including write-in 
candidates) and one hundred and 
fifty (150) dollars for a candidate 
for President of student Govern­
ment. If any candidate elects to » 
run for both offices, he/she may 
spend up to one hundred and fif­
ty (150) dollars total; however, 
he/she shall not exceed either of 
these limits. All candidates must 
keep receipts of all purchases and 
record estimates of all donations. 
These are to be given to the Elec­
tion Board on the first day of 
elections.
b)Neither the name nor the seal 
of the University of the Student 
Government is to be used on let­
ter or other written material in a 
manner that implies University or 
Student Government support of a 
candidate.
c)There is to be no faculty, ad­
ministration, or departmental in­
terference in the Student Govern­
ment elections.
d) There is to be no campaigning 
within a sixty (60) foot radius of 
the polls. (This includes the en­
tire first floor of Skibo and the cut 
area between Skibo, the UCC, 
and the fence — not including the 
fence).
e)Any person may simultaneous­
ly run for the offices of President 
and Student Senator in the spring 
elections. However, in the event 
that he/she wins more than one 
seat, he/she will choose which of­
fice he/she wishes to hold upon 
notification. The candidates with 
the next highest number of votes 
for the declines position will then 
be offered the office.
2. PENALTIES:
a)Violation of rules la, lb, or lc 
will result in a 10% reduction of 
the candidate’s total vote count.
b)Violation of rule lb will result 
in a 10% reduction of the can­
didate’s total vote count, and will 
subject the candidate to 
disciplinary action by the Election 
Board.
c)Any person caught intentionally 
destroying a candidate’s cam­
paign material will be charged a 
twenty-five (25) dollar fine, and 
will be subjected to disciplinary 
action by the Election Board.
d)Any student who attempts to 
vote more than once, or attempts 
to vote for a candidate outside 
his/her college will be subject to 
disciplinary action by the UDC.
e)Any action by a candidate or his 
supporters which compromises 
the conduct of a fair election will 
result in disciplinary action by the 
Election Board (subject to ap­
proval by the UDC).
3. ELECTION 
PROCEDURE:
b)There will be two polling 
places, locatd in the Grey Matter 
of Skibo and on the Cut in front 
of Skibo facing the UCC. 
However, only one place will be 
open at any given time.
c)There will be three (3) poll 
workers on duty at all times, in­
cluding at least one (1) member 
of the Election Board.
d)Poll workers must be informed 
of and follow the rules regarding 
the running of student elections.
e)The ballots will be locked at 
night.
f)The ballots will be counted 
within a twenty-four (24) hour 
period after the closing of election 
polls.
g)The ballots will be counted 
twice by two (2) separate groups, 
under the supervision of the 
Associate Dean of Students.
h)Tentative winners will be 
notified within twenty-four (24) 
hours after the closing of the 
polls. Final verification will occur 
seven (7) days following the close 
of the polls.
i)Election results will also be 
posted within twenty-four (24) 
hours after the closing of the polls 
at the Skibo Info Desk and in the 
following issue of the TARTAN.
j)All names of Election Board 
members will be placed at the 
polls.
a)In order to vote in a Student k)Neither a candidate nor any of
government election, a student • the candidate’s supporters may
must present a permanent, serve as a poll worker or election
Validated‘GMU'i.d.;* board member. 1-1

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan—Page 19
hairman supports candidate for student president
By Michael Bett
an you believe it’s Spring Carnival week 
afjyP It seems like it was snowing just last
k.ut it is Spring Carnival week, and with 
ng Carnival comes spring, and with 
comes Student Government elections. 
ay and tomorrow you can vote at Skibo 
tudent Government President and for 
tors in your college. Take a tip from a 
er verbose person, make your voice
d.
Presidential Candidates
Peter Cohen exhibits these qualities.
By chance, I knew the three candidates 
well prior to their declaring their candidacy. 
As Senate Chairman, I can definitely say 
that of the three candidates, Peter Cohen is 
best qualified to be Student Government 
President.
Peter Cohen is a member of Senate, cur­
rently serving as General Campus & Infor­
mation Chairman. I have seen him work 
with administrators and students. Peter 
presents himself in a very good manner. He 
is friendly, suggestive, yet he clearly brings 
across the students’ viewpoint.
Peter Cohen is a very good motivator and 
organizer. During the year he has successful­
ly organized several events such as the in­
vestigation into the appeals process at CMU,
events for Homecoming, investigation into 
problems with UDS among others.
I believe Peter Cohen has proven himself 
to be the most worthy candidate and that 
Peter Cohen should be elected our next Stu­
dent Government president.
Michael Bett is a junior majonng in 
Mathematics and is Chairman of Student 
Senate.
now you probably know at least who 
the candidates running for Student 
rnment: Peter Cohen, Seth Kaplan, 
Karen Lee. If you attended last week’s 
dential debate or listened to it on 
", you probably already have a good 
of who you want to vote for. 
e candidate you select should have am- 
experience in dealing with student 
ment and administrators. It takes 
one new to Senate two or three months 
tch on and become an active entity, 
electing someone to Senate who does 
have experience would be foolish 
se of the time lost for them to learn 
opes.
e candidate must also be able to work 
ith others. He must be able to project 
thusiasm to others and pull students 
d him to demonstrate him and his
r president must also be very accessi- 
o that you can bring your campus 
d problems to him. He also must be 
listener and innovative, so that he can 
your problems for you.
m YfcRRARO Wtè WfcÄ a. PÊP51
COWteW, cm TXR
Tf
0 «W„«m
ußCUft!f (¡SI Tifò { ^ OUT!
Stoowji m [Ac.oiu.acM
Ytmm
’{SKS
te NVmiè, 'm Mffiucw toüwsiörCollege Press Service
omnophiiia — the 9-minute student disease
By Bob Glickstein
ht it. Fight, fight, fight, FIGHT! Yes! 
s, yes! No! No, no... Ducks! Motor- 
Exam: 11:30. Now: 8:30. Okay. Three 
Eleven minus eight. Three. Not 
worry. Okay.”
¦ The preceding quotation 
originated early one morning in 
my mind. My alarm clock had(
nging every nine minutes since 7 
nd each time it rang, my right hand 
sentiently snaked through the air, 
precisely on the “Snooze” control,t
ind its place beside me underneath 
ers—all without waking me up. 
nsciously turning off an alarm clock 
'ill I had never intended to develop, 
y alarm clock rang for the eleventh 
at morning, and as my hand was 
toward its mark, my eyes happen- 
"n. Waking up had begun. I glanc- 
e time on the face of the clock and 
y conjured a mental image of a huge 
exam, bigger than myself, about 
°f a bedsheet, and I was sleeping on
told myself, this is serious. I’ve got 
an exam, 
hack to sleep, 
p the alarm went off again at 8:39, 
at ^e clock asnd said, “8:39. 8:39 
8:48. 8:48 —palindrome. A much 
[ime to wake up.” 
able to add nine to any number 
skep. Effortlessly. It is a skill which 
lever intended to develop.•40 t1 was up again. “AH right, its 
^°ught. 1 had promised myself that 
^nalte the final all-out wake-up ef- 
•48. I opened one eye wide, but it 
^ ^vily. Nearly panting from the 
' ^ memory of a voice made itself 
lrough a long, echoing hallway: 
p4l»ndmme. A much better time to
wake up.” Aha! So I HADNT promised 
myself that I vrould wake up at 8:48, after 
all! Thank God.
My alarm went off again at 8:57. “Three 
minutes to nine,” I thought. I briefly 
lamented the fact that I would miss my nine- 
thirty class; then I fell back to sleep.
At 9:06, my hand found the button and 
turned off the alarm; and at 9:08, my right 
eye fell open and saw the time on the clock.
“Holy cow! I’m going to miss my nine- 
thirty class!” I had sat bolt upright in bed. 
I puzzled for a minute —what was I doing 
up? It was 9:08 —the alarm goes off at 9‘06 
and 9:15. I should be sleeping one of my 
nine-minute interludes.
The fact is that those nine-minute in­
terludes are the most pleasant and satisfy­
ing sleeps anyone can ever have — infinitely 
more resting than even ten hours’ worth of 
“real” sleep. Perhaps it is because one is par­
tially conscious during these interludes; 
therefore you KNOW your’re asleep, and you 
can enjoy it and appreciate it all the more 
for being “awake” while asleep.
All this crossed my mind in that time, and 
when it was finished crossing, it was 9:13. 
I had been staring at the clock since 9:08, 
and it was time to go to sleep. The phrase, 
“awake while asleep” played itself repeated­
ly in my mind, invitingly; and as I drifted 
off this time, I remembered about my nine-
thirty class.
“Well, I’m REALLY going to miss it now.”
I don’t even remember 9:15. I was busy 
readjusting to my nine-minute cycle — I slept 
right through this alarm-ring.
I was suffering from wake lag. 9:24 was 
depressing. It was the last alarm-ring before 
9:30, which was when 1 had my first class.
1 felt angry at myself, disappointed in my 
lack of resolve but 1 didn't want to think 
about it. so 1 went hack to sleep.
At 9:33.1 begaa to get seriously concern
ed about the possibility of being unable to 
wake up for the rest of my life. I set a definite 
time for myself: 9:42. Meanwhile, I con­
gratulated myself for being clever enough to 
earn ANOTHER nine minutes. . .
The last nine minutes are always wrought 
with confusion, for one tries to sleep so IN­
TENSELY that one requires much greater 
CONSCIOUSNESS to achieve the desired 
“intensity of sleep” (IOS). The greater con­
sciousness is achieved, but only at the ex­
pense of unconsciousness, which was the 
original goal. The last nine minutes are a 
battle to mediate awareness.
At 9:41, I rembered my exam —11:30. I 
quickly sat up and cursed out loud. Then, 
in a swooping, sudden motion, I turned off 
the alarm clock before it could ring again.
Now I was committed. The alarm had 
been turned OFF. Not like pressing the 
snooze button; which makes the clock ring 
again in nine minutes. If I turn on the alarm 
again NOW it won’t go off until tomorrow 
at 7 A.M.
Unless I reset it. . .
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar­
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors u'ho are usually members 
of the University community. .4 letter iu­
te tided for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Xames will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan rest'nrs 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
As I dozed off again, I remember think­
ing what a silly kind of time “9:41" was to 
wake up, and how “10:00" was such a nice, 
round figure. . .
Bob Glickstein is a freshman in an in­
determinate major u ho we wish would send 
us more columns.
TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief .............Stephen Volan
Managing Editor ..Michael J. Pilewski 
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor.......................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor .............AI Datri
Sports Editor-----Christopher D. Lewis
Photo Assignment Editor Olve Peersen 
Photo Production Editor .. Dan Pellish
ACME Editor.................Mohan Embar
Dossier Editor .............Michele Keane
Ad Manager .................Katrin Wesner
Art Manager.................Mike Sussman
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager ___Jill Clelland
Asst. Features Editor .Kathy Murtaugh 
Asst. Sports Editor .. Bonnie Jacobson
Asst. Art Manager..........Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. .. .Joe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy 
Merrill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen
Copyright ^ 1985 by The Tartan The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copv it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52. (412) 578-2113. 24 hour phone. 
(412) 578-2111. Mailing address: Skibo 103. 
Student Activities. Carnegie-Mellon 
University. Pittsburgh. PA 15213.
Funded m part bv the Activities Fee. 
AH etghcs reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—April 16, 1985
Letters:
Former editor clarifies position on Tartan retraction
Editor:
The retraction printed in the April 9 issue 
of The Tartan was misleading. A letter to 
the editor referred to several statements in 
a review written by me in the March 12 issue 
as ‘‘absolutely untrue and without basis." I 
would like to clear up any misconceptions.
In the review I stated that ‘‘Theta hired 
a professional to coach them" and should 
be judged differently from other Greek Sing
acts due to this “professional element.” First, 
I may have been incorrect in the use of the 
word “hired” and would therefore, like to 
retract and apologize for its use. The basic 
argument, that Theta used professional 
coaching and shotild be reviewed according­
ly, holds, however.
I would like to add that Greek Sing is a 
great tradition that needs proper promo­
tion. The people at the Hospice organiza­
tion benefitted greatly last year, as did those 
searching for a cure to Alzheimers disease 
this year. It is for this reason that I chose 
to do the review and news article on Greek 
Sing; and for this reason nothing should be 
taken away from Kappa Alpha Theta or any 
other organization participating.
However, the printing of the kind of 
retraction in last week’s Tartan was censor­
ship and maybe even libel. For this reason
ATTENTION 
August and December Grads 
in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, 
Mathematics, and Slavic,
Near Eastern or Asian Languages
The
National Security Agency 
has professional
career opportunities
for you.
Electrical Engineers: Work with a team of dedicated professionals developing advanced communication security and foreign signals intelligence 
collection and processing systems. From antenna and receiver under computer control through sophisticated software demodulation and worldwide inter­
computer networks into advanced analytic data bases. Specialize in-depth, or span the complete range of exotic electronic information technology from 
propagation medium to target analyst. RF, microwave, millimeter wave, and optical system development; complete microelectronic design, ^ibrication, 
packaging, and test facilities. Opportunities ranging from fundamental research through advanced development, small to large system design and prototype 
development, developmental test and evaluation, field installation, and operational support Unparalleled variety, challenge, and internal mobility for 
maximum professional development and satisfaction
Candidates with a 2.5 or above GPA are preferred.
Computer Scientists: Our computer scientists work with electrical engineers and mathematicians across the frontier of finite state machine develop­
ment and applications Microprocessor applications, massively parallel architecture development, hyperfast numeric algorithm development, unique bit-slice 
based subsystem applications, knowledge-based systems, and every language from microprocessor machine code through Ada.
Candidates with a 30 or above GF* are preferred.
Mathematicians: Mathematicians at NSA use advanced concepts to solve cryptologic problems and to help develop and evaluate code and cipher 
systems. The unique nature of our cryptologic mission gives vitally important practical applications to mathematical concepts usually considered purely 
theoretical.
Candidates with a 3 0 or above GPA are preferred.
Language Specialists: If you are proficient in a modem Slavic, Near Eastern or Asian language, we can provide career challenges that make full use of 
your language skills You will be using the language constantly, exploring its nuances in depth. Few careers, even in academia, put your language skills to 
more steady and demanding use.
Candidates with a 2.5 or above GPA are preferred
Salaries are competitive with private industry and for most of these positions, start in the mid-to-upper 20’s for qualified candidates. Full federal fringe 
benefits apply Entry positions are located in suburban Maryland, midway between Baltimore and Washington, D C.
For additional information, contact your Career Development Center.
Interested individuals should send a detailed resume to:
National Security Agency 
ATTN: M322 (AD)
Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Is Required
I have resigned my position as Feati Editor of The Tartan.
Ric MeFormer Tartan Editor-in-Chief, F Editor, Entertainment Editor, Editor, and Assistant Sports Editi
Editor’s Note: The retraction of a falser 
ment is neither censorship nor libel. /J 
cusing Kappa Alpha Theta of using j 
sional coaching without proper evid 
Mr. Medrow took much more awayfroA 
sorority’s victory than he said he inte 
His decision to resign over this m 
unfortunate one.
United Vfcy
CO
0 3 
hi
COM 
SS 
< Û. LU H
<
111
u.o
</)DCLU
(/)occ

---------------------------------------------------

AIM HIGH
UP, UP AND AWAY!
If you’ve ever wanted to get above it all, then the 
Air .Force ROTC Flight Instruction Program (FIP) 
may be for you. You’ll learn the basics of flight 
with flying lessons in small aircraft at Ideal FAA- approved civilian flying schools.
It’s an additional program for Air Force ROTC 
cadets who can qualify to become pilots. With 
your Air Force ROTC training, it’s your first step to pilot training.
You can do something about your desire to fly ... 
with the best. Talk to your campus Air Force ROTC representative today.
IT)
•HouÜfd
<u
Ü¦HSi
-pa<ou
u(Ü4J
U
l
5*5
05COo
CO$CJCDO
PRECISIÓN 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)
i
*
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
COLOR
We never met a head we didn't like
. . .With apologies to Will Rogers, 
the great American humorist.
The point we're trying to make, 
of course, is that many hair- 
cutters only see hair when they 
look at a head.
At Great "X", we look at the 
whole head as AA/ell as the hair. 
We also listen to what the head 
says, how he or she pictures him-
Mon, Tues, Wed 10—7 
Thurs, Fri 10—9 
Sat 9—6
self or herself after the haircut.
Our haircutters are trained to put 
it all together ... so that the 
final product is more than just an 
example of expert haircutting . . 
. but a perfect representation of 
who you want to be.
Every head's a winner, when it 
heads for...
NO APPOINTMENT
CJPfCnTIMS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
the Oakland Post Office
Beta and Deceased-Engler 
present ...
Dirty Joe V
and the
Big Butts
imerica’s Premier Concert Band
Performing all their smash hits:
• I Walk On The Sidewalk
• Proud Mary
Plus their original chart-topper 
“Dan Likes Fat Girls”
Catch them during Carnival!!
ATTENTION . . . CLASS OF ‘8S
ONLY
FREE PIZZA - ALL YOU CAN EAT
COME JOIN THE ADMISSION STAFF FOR A 
STUDY BREAK OF PIZZA AND POP, AND 
LEARN ABOUT BECOMING A MEMBER OF 
CMAC (CARNEGIE-MELLON ADMISSIONS 
COUNCIL), AN ALUMNI GROUP THAT HELPS 
THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE TO RECRUIT AND 
INTERVIEW HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS 
NATION-WIDE.
WHEN: WEDNESDAY. APRIL 24 
TIME: 500 PM
WHERE: ADMISSIONS LOUNGE 
WARNER HALL 101

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan —April 16, 1985
DISCOUNT RIDE TICKETS 
FOR CARNIVAL ON SALE AT 
INFO DESK TILL 3PM THURS.
Bri"*
withN€-4JS
Ask for Expert Advice 
on which Conditioner 
is right for you!
Lewis Hair Salon 
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
682-4063
Genuine NEXxUS Products are sold only in professional hair styling salons.
There’s no # doubt you’re going tomakeitin the real world, but what about your car?
Ford and Lincoln-Mercury have MOO for graduating seniors toward the purchase of selected cars and trucks.
Ford Motor Credit also has preapproved credit for qualified graduating seniors. Offers end August 15,1985. For more information call Ford College Graduate Purchase Program Headquarters at 1-800-321-1536.
FORD • LINCOLN • MERCURY
United Way
35mm
Prints and Slides from the same roll
Kodak MP film... Eastman Kodak’s 
professional color motion picture (MP) 
film now adapted for still use in 35mm 
cameras by Seattle FilmWorks. Its 
micro-fine grain and rich color 
saturation meet the exacting standards 
of the movie industry. Shoot in low or 
bright light from 200 ASA up to 1200 
ASA. Get prints or slides, or both, 
from the same roll. Enjoy the very 
latest in photographic technology with 
substantial savings.
INTRODUCTORY OFFER
? Rush me two 20- exposure rolls of 
your leading KODAK MP film-" 
Kodak 5247® (200 ASA). Enclosed 
is $2.00. I’d like to be able to get 
color prints or slides (or both) fr°m 
the same roll and experience the 
remarkable versatility of this 
professional quality film.
NAME________________  —-*
ADDRESS______________—--------
CITY-------------------------------------------"
STATE____________ZIP-
Urtot of 2 rote per customer 
Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks 
P.O. Box C-34056 
Seattle, WA 98124 
101984 Seattle MmWofks
Kodak V47 » a revered trademark 
of the Eastman Kodak Company ^

---------------------------------------------------

CAPEI PIZZA
$2.45
Where Today ... 
... Tomorrow 
And Every Cay ... 
you set the Best Pizza In Oakland atttie Best Price!
¦WKSi» NV JtHMetVtl
+ taxLARGE PIZZA and
2 LITERS OF PEPSI!!
UNBELIEVABLE!!
00aBD0000Q(X)00^
*OAKLAND'S FINEST NIGHTCLUB*
FORCES STUDIO
+&IGANTIC VIDEO SCREEN ENTERTAINMENT*
„ •Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.» t
OOOOOOOCOXOCIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
3415 FORCES AVE. PGH. PA. 13213 
PHONE 681-22C2
•lilt SAME FAMOUS SPECIAL 
WITH NOW AN EVEN GREATER 
SAVINGS TO YOUt!
When You'r* Onto A Good Thing, Stick With Mil
***
***********
*****************
CENTER FOR DESIGN OF EDUCATIONAL COMPUTING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CENTER
SEMINARS CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
************
*****
PROGRESS WITH HIGH-FUNCTION 
WORK STATIONS
Jim Morris, ITC; Mike Conner, ITC Bruce Sherwood, CDEC; Jill Larkin, CDEC
Wednesday, April 17, 1985 GSIA Master’s Auditorium
3:30 - 5:00 p.m.
***********************
ABSTRACT- During recent months, major progress has been made by the 
Information Technology Center in the development and deployment of 
Sanction work stations. The Center for Design of Education^ 
rnmnutine has contributed experimental educational applications which 
exolcMt and illustrate the new capabilities. ITC and CDEC will present a 
demonstration as a progress report to the campus community.

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Off Center Theater will accept interns to 
work in its street theater program this sum­
mer. Cost is S1000. For more information 
call 212-929-8299 or write OFF CENTER 
THEATER. INC.. 436 West 18th Street. 
New York. NY 10011.
Summer Jobs are available to thousands of 
interested college students and teachers na­
tionwide this year. Exciting opportunities, 
good pay and selection. For more informa­
tion. send a long, self-addressed stamped 
envelop to 1985 SUMMER JOBS PRO­
GRAM. Box 594. Room 12. Barnstable. 
MA 02630.
Applications for the Carnegie Awards Solo 
Competiton are available to musicians who 
want the opportunity to experience the audi­
tion process, compete against other musi­
cians of the same age. and have their per­
formances critiqued by professional musi­
cians. For more information call x2387.
Miscellaneous
Richard M. Cvert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 to 5 pm in his 
office. 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, April 
30. 1985. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his office, 
578-2200. to set up an appointment.
Classifieds_____
Juliet Street, large one bedroom apartment 
(furnished) S275 plus utilities. Call 672-1290 
leave day (nighw phone to return call).
Shadyside Summer Sublet May 18 — Aug. 
18 Poss. option for Fall. Sunny, airy apt. 3rd 
floor, on Fifth nr. Walnut St. shops. Furnish­
ed 2 BR, large living/dining area, kitchen, 
lots of storage, laundry fac. avail. 2 or 3 peo­
ple. S400 mo negot. incl. all util, except air 
cond. Call Teri@x2116 (day), 687-6358 
(nite).
PIZZA MADE AT YOUR LOCATION -
Everything — sauce — dough — Call me 
for your frat party. Gwen Caterers, 271-5749.
North Craig St. Summer Sublet Large 3 
bedroom furnished apartment. 
S345 month. 672-1290. Juilet St. large 1 
bedroom furnished aprartment 
S275 month. 672-1290 or 681-4741. Prices 
negotiable.
Order and Chaos, Nothing At All by W.R. 
Tish is now available in the CMU Bookstore. 
Please look! He who hesitates is lost; HE 
WHO HESITATES IN A REVOLVING 
DOOR IS SQUASHED. But what happens 
when Simon says “I’m not Simon”?
Summer Sublet June-August Squirrel Hill 
Large efficiency, large dressing, bath, and 
kitchen. S250. Possible phone use. Call 
421-7420.
Roommate Needed: Highland Park Area.
2 bedroom spacious apartment. 
S160/month. Call 661-6060 evenings.
CLASSICAL MUSIC LOVERS! The Pitt­
sburgh Symphony has immediate openings 
for articulate, personable individuals to sell 
season subscriptions by phone. Qualifica­
tions include: a good speaking voice, a 
strong knowledge of classical music, and a 
commitment to the arts in Pittsburgh. Com­
munity involvement is a plus. Guaranteed 
salary, with bonuses and free Symphony 
tickets. Permanent, part-time evening posi­
tions available now. For an interview, call 
Joely Raymond at 392-4891 between 11 am 
and 1 pm, Mon-Fri.
PARTIES — PARTIES — PARTIES
Papermart — one stop party shopping. Over
10,000 sq. ft. of party supplies in one party 
supermarket. 5000 Baum Blvd. (Baum at 
Morewood) 681-8900.
Two Bedroom Furnished Apartments
available for May and September 1st. 
Suitable for 2-4 roommates, w/w carpeting, 
secure bldg. Cable TV, office also available 
at 322 N. Craig Street. 899-3846. Perfect 
location, multiple year savings.
Quality typing on word processor. Resumes, 
cover letters, term papers, etc. Also tutor­
ing in Cobol, Basic. Call 241-1569 after 6 
pm.
JOBS! JOBS! The Carnegie-Mellon Action 
Project (C-MAP) is interviewing for a staff 
of teachers and teaching assistants to work 
in the pre-college program from July 6 to 
August 9, 1985. Applicants for positions in 
Physics or Calculus must have completed 
two years of college including Physics I, II, 
III, and Calculus I, II, III with a “B” average 
or better. For positions in Chemistry, a 
Chemical Engineering, Chemistry or 
Biology major is preferred. Previous tutor­
ing or teaching experience is necessary for 
the teaching postions and would be helpful 
for the tutoring slots. Chances for employ­
ment are excellent if you are proficient in 
any two combinations of Physics, Chemistry 
or Calculus. To^apply: Come to the C-MAP 
office, 410 Margaret Morrison Building, 
April 1 through April 29, 1985 from 9:00 
am — 5:00 pm. If you need additional in­
formation, call 578-2150.
Students — Work with Clean Water Action 
Project. Full and part-time positions on 
public outreach staff. Earn $2880 in 4 
months. Rapid advancement & travel. EOE 
765-3053
Housemate Wanted. Large Home in 
Shadyside, own bedroom. $150/mo. +
utilities and food. 661-7699.
Discount on over 50 brands of audio, video 
and car stereo equipment. Contact Hal at 
683-3948.
Special Offer on Sony (VHS T120 and Beta 
L750) video cassette tapes. Call Hal at 
683-3948.
Summer Jobs. College Students. Political 
fieldwork available this summer. Great work 
environment, career opportunities, national 
travel, $180+ a week plus benefits. 
765-3007.
COUNSELORS WANTED - Trim down 
physical fitness coed NYS overnight camp. 
Great times helping kids! All sports, WSI’s, 
theatre, arts and crafts, piano, guitar, dance, 
aerobics, computers, go-carts, rocketry, 
general, needle-craft, weight-training, kit­
chen, tent camping, riflery. Camp Shane, 
Ferndale, N.Y. 12734.
Special Purchase on Sony, JVC and Cro 
ghetto blasters. Call Hal at 683 3943
Spectacular Savings on Sony, JVC, and k 
wood compact disc players. Call Ha! I 
683-3948. ‘ *
Latest Sony Walkman models at incredib’i 
prices. Call Hal at 683-3948.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars!] 
bosses/quotas! Sincerely interested rush sell 
addressed envelope: Mailers' Association 
Dept. AR-7CEG, PO Box 470, WoodstocJ 
IL 60098.
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for 
through the U.S. government? Get the fad 
today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 3401-A
Professional typing, 25 years experieJ 
term papers, theses, dissertation) 
manuscripts, engineering papers foreiei 
students welcome fast, efficienl 
guaranteed Rita 521-9567
North Craig Street, Summer Sublet,
3 bedroom, furnished apartment (May 11 
September). $385 plus gas. . .also in sa 
building another apartment available fj 
Fall (1985) term. Large 2 bedroom fur 
ed apartment $350.00 plus gas.
College graduates of 1985 interested 
teaching learning and study skills, travel] 
schools and colleges throughout the U.J 
Strong Liberal Arts background, creativj 
independent, car needed, start mid-Aug 
Training with salary, send resume to P.(| 
Box 439, Greenwich, CT 06830.
Summer Sublet/Fall Option Shadysid 
Large spacious furnished studio apt. 10 mij 
walk to campus. All utilities includ 
Morewood & Centre Aves. 621-7608.
START YOUR CAREER NOW. 
money and work on Fortune 500 Compa 
marketing programs on campus. Part tii 
(flexible) hours each week. We 
references. Call 1-800-821-1543.
Special Discount on Bose speakers. Call I 
at 683-3948.
Events
Movies
I The Red Shoes, starring Moira.JL Shearer, Anton Walbrook. An 
elaborate, dazzling view of life behind the 
scenes of a ballet company. Patterned after 
a Hans Christian Anderson fairy tale. Pitt­
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:50 pm. Ad­
mission S2.95.
Clubs
Student Senate regular meeting in Skibo 
Wherrett Room at 7 pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Children of divorced parents support 
group. Come talk to people who are going 
through it themselves. Counseling Center, E- 
lower Morewood, 3:30 pm-5:30 pm. 
Department of Architecture Spring Lec­
tures Series. Lecture by Sergio Los, Professor 
of Architecture, Instituto Universitario di 
Architettura. Wean’ Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Art
Paintings of landscapes by two CMU alum­
nae on display. Wildsister’s Cafe Gallery, 
27th St and Jane St. Southside, 1 pm to 3 
pm until Saturday, May 4, 1985.
Kimono Collection includes kimono for 
children, for formal and informal wear, for 
different seasons, even spectacular wedding 
kimono. Courthouse Gallery/Forum, 
Allegheny County Courthouse, Grant Street. 
Gallery hours: 8:30 am to 4:30 pm weekdays.
Movies
i Romeo and Juliet, starring 
-JL w Olivia Hussey, Leonard Whiting, 
Michael York. Shakespeare’s romantic 
tragedy with lush photography and music. 
Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:50 pm. Admission S2.95.
Music
WRCT presents an interview with Son Seals. 
Plays
Zelda! The Musical. It’s his side of paradise 
that the world remembers. It’s her side of the 
story that you won’t forget. Skibo Ballroom. 
Tickets $3.50 at Information Desk.
Clubs
Bagpipe Class meets in Skibo 12 at 1 pm. 
Everyone welcome. For more information 
call 241-1002.
CMU Peace Alliance meets in Skibo 45 at 
5 pm. Everyone welcome.
?¦'V Movies
^^The Tin Drum, starring David 
JLv^Bennent, Mario Ador, Angela 
Winkler. Potent, unforgettable drama about 
a boy refusing to grow up as the Nazis take 
power. Oscar for Best Foreign Film. Rated 
R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lolita. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 9 pm. Ad­
mission $1.
Plays
Zelda! See listing for Wednesday April 17. 
Clubs
Energy and the Environment, presented by 
John H. Sunnau, Governor of New Hamp­
shire as a part of the Special Guest Lecture. 
Skibo Wherrett Room, 3:30 pm.
Explorers Club plans rock-climbing and 
kayaking trips. Skibo 12, 6:30 pm.
Movies
| Missing In Action. Chu(|
JL 1/ Norris goes back. Doherty! 
2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm. Admission5
Starman, starring Jeff Bridges, Karen c 
Bridges gives a witty performance as ane 
traterrestrial who comes to earth in thefoij 
of Karen Allen’s dead husband. Rated 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pj 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Unconquered, starring Gary Coop®I 
Cecile B. DeMille epic based on a novel| 
Neil Swanson, former editor of the 
sburgh Press. A Virginia military offitfj 
tempts to bring peace to the Alleghenyf 
tier of the 1760’s. The spectacular cliw® 
a defense of the beleaguered F°rt 
Carnegie Institute Museum of Art, 8 
Admission $3.
Plays
Zelda! See listing for Wednesday,
Recreation 
NRBQ, the New Rhythm and 
Quartet, will be bringing their madcaP 
beat concert show to CMU at 7 p111
041 *7*Z92!CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985—The Tartan—Page 25
Cime?*-'Melon University Spring Carnival
It Comes In Colors
ALL YOU CAN EAT
Sign up on Wednesday, April 17 in 
Skibo to have one meal decucted 
from your meal plan; 
OR 
Pay $3.00 ($2.50 for sophomores) at 
the picnic.
SPRING CARNIVAL PICNIC
Thursday, April 18, 4-8 p.m 
On “The Mall” between 
Baker and Doherty Halls
B.Y.O.B.
Bring your own blanket
ENTERTAINMENT
Including a DJ and plenty of 
volleyball for everyone.
Movies
I African Queen. Doherty Hall 
2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12
pm. Admission $1.20
ailing in Love. An engineer and a subur- 
an housewife have an affair outside their 
marriages. With Meryl Streep and 
bert DeNiro. Rated PG-13. Pittsburgh 
layhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm.
Plays
Ida! See listing for Wednesday, April 17. 
Clubs
ame Club meets in Skibo 11 at 1 pm.
Recreation 
ncert for your Eyes, featuring high-tech, 
lectronic rock and roll juggler Chris Bliss 
an extravaganza of sound, lights, painted 
ennis balls, mirrored balls, and scarves, 
ootball stadium, 8:30 pm.
1
 Movies
Laura, starring Gene Tierney, 
Clifton Webb, Dana Andrews. A 
tty, suspenseful melodrama about a 
wder investigation that is packed with sur­
ges. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 
Admission $2.95.
Music
Harp Recital, performed by Robin Chudy. 
Selection by Handel, Debussy, Spohy, Pro- 
kofieff, Britten, Granjany. Duquesne Univer­
sity Recital Hall, 8 pm. Tickets $2 to 
students; available at door.
Q C) Movies
La Dolce Vita, starring 
Marcello Mastrovanni, Anita 
Ekberg. Life, love and loneliness among the 
beautiful in Rome. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm only. Admission $2.95.
Music
WRCT presents an interview with The 
Minutemen.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Doherty Hall 2210 at 7 
pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
The Greek Room Committee sponsors a 
lecture by Ian Andrew Vorres, creator of the 
Vorres Museum near Athens. The Vorres 
Museum has five acres of buildings and 
gardens and contains art representative of 
3,000 years of Greek history plus the most 
representative collection in the world of 
modem Greek painting and sculpture. Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium, University of Pitt­
sburgh, 7 pm.
wmam
AND ICELANDAIR INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS:
? Kree wine with dinner, cognac after—in flight.! 1 Free deluxe roundtrip 
motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany. e gium an 
Holland. (1 Reduced train fares to Switzerland and h ranee. ! -super Niver 
Keniwel car rentals at $59 per week in Luxembourg WE RE THE ONLY WAY TO FLY TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. 
From a 24-hour stopover to a K*rand tour of two weeks or more. lia\ t tu 
perfect package for a visit to Iceland. Kurope s most beauti u > tp stt. .
All l;ir»-s sul))»'» 11» rtun*tr .iikI S.MHI mU riutmn.il il< |>.imnr I.in All l.irt tar«-'!Orlando , 1 ., ill M, In, .. Mr*I*-* I |k.iall liclawlair lull lr« i .it I ^».223-53110 1« Vw UI>ICELANDAIR
If you wish, to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com­
puter mail to MEOPat CMCCTC. Only classified 
ads will be accepted over the phone.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next week’s issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi­
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other­
wise noted.
TSia TaaeftSiOgp sa? SJapaljiaii'T
An Introductory Reading & Discussion
The Ways and 
Man's Possible Evolution"
First Unitarian Church Schweitzer Koom 
Morewood and Ellsworth Ave
Saturday, April 20th 7:30 p.m.
DeiTPL
P5SOCIAT€5
Drs. Alex Lowy and I.B. Mandel
Cosmetic And Preventive Family Dentistry
3708 Fifth Avenue 
Medical Arts Bldg., Suite 519 Oakland
Days and Evenings 
681-2115
NOTICE!
.ap 1c/i­vn 4/tu2H astymuI0yT Cd::9
This standby tare provides a 
berth in a room for 4 (we'll 
find traveling companions for 
you). Or, for $699, sail in a 
minimum grade nxim for 2 
people. This limited offer is 
subject to withdrawal without 
prior notice and may not be 
combined with any other offer. 
Rate does not include taxes or 
airfare. Confirmation will be 
given 3 weeks prior to sailing;
a $75 deposit is required with 
your request. For details, see 
your travel agent or write: 
Cunard, PO. Box 2935, Grand 
Central Station, New York,
N Y 10163.
fiC,UEEN O 
LIZABETH L
British Registry
CUNARDC CUNARO 1965

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26—The Tartan—April 16, 1985
Bachman Turner Overdrive is back in busines
Bv ANTHONY A. DATRI
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The big. bad sound of blue-collar rock is 
regaining popularity, as evidenced by the 
success of bands such as Bruce Springsteen 
and Huey Lewis. Now the band that led the 
original back-to-basics movement a decade 
ago. Bachman Turner Overdrive, is back.
After selling over seven million albums 
between 1973 and 1978. BTO suddenly 
broke up. Guitarist vocalist songwriter Ran- 
dv Bachman attributes the breakup to the 
band achieving "too much too soon." 
Bachman saw the onset of musical "burn­
out." and decided to bring the whole thing 
to a halt.
But he had a feeling then that fate would 
bring them all together again, for the 
members of the band —Randy Bachman, 
Fred Turner. Tim Bachman. „ id Garry 
Peterson — were all born and raised in the 
Canadian city of Winnipeg. Bachman and 
Peterson formed the nucleus of the famed 
Guess Who, for whom Bachman co-wrote 
several hits, such as “These Eyes" and 
"American Woman." Turner, Peterson, and 
the Bachmans worked together in various 
combinations in several interim bands until
1973. when Fred Turner. Randy and Tim 
Bachman, and a third Bachman, Robbie, 
became Bachman Turner Overdrive. Within 
the space of a few albums, the band had 
soared to the top with the hits “Let it Ride,” 
"Takin Care of Business," “You Ain't Seen 
Nothin’ Yet" and “Hey You."
All of this brings me now to the point of 
this article: last Friday’s BTO concert at the 
Syria Mosque. I had never seen the members 
of BTO before, so I had no idea what they 
looked like. When they took the stage, my 
first reaction was to laugh, since the three 
frontmen (Turner and the Bachmans) are all 
now —shall we say—rotund, and had to 
reach around their stomachs to play their in­
struments. The band dragged a bit at the 
start, but picked up about a third of the way 
through and all in all provided a good, 
rockin’ show. The band performed all their 
old hits, and a number of songs-their new 
album, Rock and Roll Nights. Included were 
“Gimme Your Money Please,” “Let It Ride,” 
“You Ain’t Seen Nothin’ Yet,” “Hey You,” and 
a song that was covered by Krokus last year, 
“Stay Awake All Night”. I like the Krokus 
version better, but the original raw power in 
the song came from BTO. I was
Every TI calculator comes with 
one extra number.
1-800-TI-CARES
When you buy a Texas 
Instruments calculator you 
don’t just buy a calculator, you 
buy Texas Instruments’ com- 
mitment to quality.
It’s a commitment backed 
by a fully developed service 
network that includes the 
above toll-free number you can 
call from anyplace in the 
United States.
If you have any applications,
operations, or service questions, 
call us Monday thru Friday 
between 9 am and 4 pm CST, 
and we’ll be glad to help.
If your calculator needs 
repairing, we’ll direct you to 
one of our 46 conveniently 
located service centers for an 
immediate exchange. Under 
warranty, its free. If there’s no 
center near you, we’ll do it all 
by mail.
Of course, there’s just one 
catch. It has to be a Texas 
Instruments calculator. But 
then, if you’re as smart as we 
think you are, why wouldn’t 
it be?
2uU/5hi5ctsguic5
Creating useful products 
and services for you.
when BTO did “Mississippi Queen,” a song 
which they said they had always wanted to 
do. I wasn’t expecting to see that song per­
formed until the upcoming Mountain show, 
where they will open for Triumph.
The opening act was a local band called 
Black Lip, an all Black rock trio. The drum­
mer and the bassist were forgettable, but the 
guitarist/vocalist was proficient, if 
unoriginal. He tried to play like Jimi Hen­
drix and sing like Ray Parker, accomplishing
neither to any remarkable degree 
I went to this show primarily beca 
friend came up with free tickets, exp^, 
to watch a group of aging pop musician 
ing to make an eleventh hour come|v 
But as the show progressed, my attj 
towards the band changed. BTO pja( 
lively, enjoyable show —the only rockco 
I have ever attended where the audienc 
up and danced. Look for BTO —I thjni 
reunion is here to stay.
Scotch 'n' Soda: Zeli
continued from page 12
to Look Smart in Paree” and the mellifluous 
“In A Zelda Mood.” Instrumental accom­
paniment was provided by a small jazz 
ensemble. The group — consisting of a piano, 
synthesizer, bass, clarinet, trumpet, percus­
sion, and accordion — played adequately, 
but a fuller ensemble would have better 
complemented the production nuiyibers and 
done more to evoke the roucous mood of the 
Roaring Twenties.
The show’s set consisted of a raised plat­
form and steps leading down to a large sec­
tion of floor. This partly in-the-round 
ing, though potentially more exciting 
conventional staging, can be disconcei 
for theatergoers used to action conl 
within a five-sided box, and in thecas 
this production created problems 
lighting, scene changes, and sound.
Zelda! boasts a competent cast, somei 
sant music, and an involving storyline, 
Zelda! the musical lacks the enthusiasm 
chutzpah that was the essence of Zelda 
woman.

---------------------------------------------------

Fîmes.
oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
¿w Ç#KÎ bhct ttotf 
KiAn 2y-RA5kéat mf'üoteo firn on h S060Y ßow yot)X ŸÔOLHhcm/
A \\E 5 Gor A
¿T TAltfWßM&K 
^ RüNf MTNGE
»HAT AM I
P^)\ SMuto?;
J $X V
f\Ll(%HT...1ou...Y5AH,
>, P.C., >'\li 0£EN
mìCiKJC? MY A;•u MISÉRABLE 
W 'fiAtt... NûWW / 
CHANC£ fon. KtonUtv /
9kx.“M26 a’“,a, /c e1MM-p
Thu ûîüther, /iay irsele y©u 
WU------,J'CAfTAiM, Thé EAJ6 iwe^b
tArtNA TAKÊ IT ANY/W*"'* SHUT 
W, SCOTTY/«'... ÔOÉ'oicéCXmoo*) 
.. . TXfH HELP<d£T> Pod HHf ^ X 
Nfcfc*) 1”EuGO(n& )uAmq 3yc Fs5E2
^NlC»0OYi HELP, Y*' KNOW 1 N6CO
SWÉONÉ tf6K>____Hoy ^ VN
A qUEüÉ TO VJAW You^ TuwJ 
^ 'Vo 6iT Ar -30* . - •
. .. VÉ HAOÉ. TMÉ TÉCrtKJOuJûY,
CAN* fLekottO tfW... % fé 0£C- 
S’ÎSTÊjA-ZO NJOT le,hkhnrrr 
SMOkKLÉ, SWOMOE... DAISY, 
ÜAuy, 6iii£ Mi Y^uil avswéÆ, 
Oo... NôtotW PAwic... 2.o:SI 
:56 QLoGiM LoaO !:57ttVoO 
*3c>C>5 2-Û/H7 WAIT 1 of 2 ...Y? 
(ìécausé we u>vr yau... th^ê 
Mites op W OAitK n^/Ar F*ig-0 
CWUK6Nt fmes A-wo a- fliGiM 
COKE"... 'bb Y&J ÛÎSIR.É Awotkc^ 
'UANSACnoN? /\ Vj\ -
MWG&ft!/ Sytc ”gsmP
0\SC0HMécTEO! v* OO^N,
no onmt t^wtl ? to*
Wiuj THE \NMHrt StitóO AN 
kxciueNT )Oc oKi you/ ¿scro 
I EwTÉfc 1aDDM tiva... Toro,
I £ THANK WÉ'tó KAWSAS
I fcWWO^é ... coMVfCfiA/O To
i host, W£ Contkol-H C lo 
L teTuM To PC ...
AüTOSftVe fA\UD... STOCAÌ 
stalla ?.. Li srtAJ Piafu- what i'k> 
TttuNG Y<x;( Keep away f£o/A
jlÜWAtóOVtù Sor (.HUIT, HO(LT, HUf-T- 2LjK
«DAM, Y£**)... Ûoes fjoT mrcH 
Switch oil kç^woho... jLo^So/^,
\jJKtw»N6( U/MJvtwC,] swe Loves f<JUy
„ Y^a«, Y6ÄH-r y«ah..
^7 S*" touc TheN
/ Sy-\ vw »•> *»»», mm «mi/ST\ bofï:--^(pitifüu, pV f^y ( } > x
FromStrange
Minds
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
By D. A. Pellish^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
ts YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students Et CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
^OUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at K2La 
•6h846’K .. .Neighbor.
Harvey risks imprisonment all for ihe thrill of 
rag from his matress.
removing rhe

---------------------------------------------------

GSO presents
the
Vartu
I at they5 ncraton
'Friday 1
April 26, <5:30-10:30’pm.
Gateway Clipper Cruise
11 ’•OO-2'OOa.tn.
Jlaturim “Straiaht Ahead
'Busses lecwim Skibo at 8,9 & 10 
returning after the Ciwper docks
tickets $^.00
cwailabU at Sklbo info desk starting Ayril 25
Jvr yrwre injvrmatioyi coil 57&-75&0 
jvwied by Student ¿stwttus Tee
