Vol 69, No. 41C-MUTUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1970
Chief Young Resigns
by Erica Borden
Chief W. Dwayne Young, Director of C-MU Safety 
and Security, submitted his resignation Tuesday, to be 
effective as of May 1, 1970. When asked why he re­
signed. Mr. Young replied that ‘‘security and safety de­
cisions are being made by non professional people. I 
felt I was no longer of service; I didn't think I was an 
asset.”
Calling his staff his “second family,” Chief 
Young replied, “Absolutely,” to the question of wheth­
er he would continue on the job if certain bureau­
cratic structures were altered.
Catching the administration almost completely off­
guard Friday afternoon, Scott Tilden, News Director of 
WRCT, asked Mr. Carl Thomas, Manager of Business 
and Plant Operations and Mr. Young’s superior, to con­
firm the rumor that the Chief had resigned. Mr. Tho­
mas admitted that the resignation was “relatively un­
expected.”
Although Mr. Young indicated that he did not have 
the “faintest idea” of who is to be his successor, Mr. 
Thomas said that they would be looking for a college 
graduate, thus eliminating the possibility of a promo­
tion from within the present staff.
“In seeking a replacement, the University will 
consult members of the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs who have nationwide reputations for their crea­
tive contributions to problems of public and private 
safety,” read the official University release. Members 
of the student body and of the faculty will also be 
consulted.
Photo by JERRY SISKIND
Mr. Young’s resignation seems to revolve around 
three basic disagreement and dissatisfactions with the 
way in which the security force is currently operat­
ing: campus lighting, manpower, and the carrying of 
firearms
According to Chief Young, the Security force has 
been recommending “for several years” that low wat­
tage floodlighting be installed on the corners of all 
campus buildings. He indicated that the Security De­
partment had had difficulties in trying to move Physi­
cal Plant to even keep the existing lights functioning. 
He cited a report sent in mid-February to the Direc­
tor of Physical Plant listing five dozen lights on 
campus that were not working. A follow-up report 
made the following week indicated that although some 
of the bulbs had been replaced, many were still not 
operating.
“I'm sorry if floodlighting doesn’t fit in with the 
mood of the campus,” the Chief said. Speaking of the 
increased crime rate on campus during the evening 
hours, Chief Young said that better lighting on campus 
was mandatory and that low wattage flood-lighting 
could be obtained at relatively low cost “until the 
university wants to become involved in more sophisti­
cated and costly lighting.”
Chief Young also stated that the size of the force 
was “not adequate” to patrol the campus, especially 
since the University’s vulnerability to the city’s rising 
crime rate has increased. The cost of adding six men 
to the force would be between $38,000 and $40,000 
per fiscal year, Chief Young said.
“I cannot even run daylight with three men,” the 
Chief remarked. “When you’re told this, it’s time to 
do what I’ve done.”
(Continued on Page 4)
No New Construction at C-MU or Pitt 
Until Jobs Assured to Minority Groups
A Construction Seminar was held 
January 22, 1970 at Camegie-Mellon Uni­
versity by the colleges and universities 
of Greater Pittsburgh. The purpose of 
this meeting was to determine what they 
could do, individually or collectively, 
toward obtaining a condition of employ­
ment in the area construction industry 
which would be in keeping with the spir­
it of the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
Representatives from the six major 
universities in the Pittsburgh area gave 
a review of the construction projects 
which are recently completed, are pre­
sently on-going, and those which are
planned for future construction. The 
following table is a summary of those 
reviews in dollars.
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS 
(including major renovation)
On-going Completed Future 
million million million
Carlow College $ — $8.5 $ 5
Camegie-Mellon 17.3 — 9
Chatham — — 6
Duquesne13.5 -12-14
Point Park3 -5.5
University
of Pgh.3 -35
Total$33.8 $8.5$ 69.5
Representatives of two of the Universi­
ties, Camegie-Mellon and University of 
Pittsburgh, stated that they have already 
taken a stand publicly on employment 
in their construction projects. Their posi­
tion is that neither will begin new con­
struction until they themselves are sat­
isfied that minority group workers are 
assured of representative jobs in this in­
dustry.
Discussion followed regarding Feder­
al policies on nondiscrimination, deter­
mination of noncompliance, and the ac­
tion taken when noncompliance is found.
The Department of Labor sets the 
standards and provides routes for Feder­
al agencies to follow. It is the agencies' 
responsibility to make sure the contrac­
tors comply with the laws. In Pitts­
burgh’s case the agency is Health. Edu­
cation, & Welfare (HEW). When the ques­
tion was raised if there was a way to 
obtain a statement of noncompliance of 
contractors with the 1964 Act, Mr. Wilks 
(Director, Office of Federal Contract 
Compliance) replied that HEW should be 
contacted or a letter should be written 
directly to the OFCC. Mr. Cashdan. of 
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com­
mission, advised that if an answer could 
not be secured through the agency, the 
Universities and others with problems 
should openly support those private suit 
cases being brought against the unions.
The Labor Department prefers that a 
solution to labor disputes be reached in 
the hometown, if possible. The Philadel­
phia Plan is intended to be enforced only 
when the community cannot make some 
agreement with the industry and unions 
involved.
Mr. Wilks was asked to give a defin­
ition of exactly what is compliance with 
the Federal law on nondiscrimination. 
The Act does not define it nor has it been
clarified or detailed by any agency. He 
replied that not much had been done in 
this area but his office is working on it.
Suggestions as to what the universi­
ties might consider doing collectively or 
individually in working out a solution to 
this problem were:
A. Universities should decide if they 
have a commitment or not. If so, they 
should be prepared to take a stand on it 
and stick by it; e.g., declare you want 
equal employment opportunities and prove 
it.
B. Universities should take a stand on 
university recruiting and training of 
journeymen. Seminars could be set 
up to teach management techniques.$a
Ch Universities should employ min­
ority contractors and assist them, when 
needed, to enable them to make bids; 
e.g., through providing bond money.
D. Preaward agreements should be 
made bv meeting with the Federal Con-
(Continued on Page 5)
Bernstein Bows Out of Race Student Attacked
As suddenly as he decided to enter the race for 
SG President, Hank Bernstein has now decided to with­
draw. “Although I feel I could do the best job in the 
important position of President,” Hank said, “and de­
spite the fact that this is my last chance to run, I have 
been informed that I entered the race too late to be 
included on the ballot. Since I do not believe it would 
be fair to ask the Senate to arbitrarily disregard its own 
rules by giving me some type of preferential treatment, 
I have regrettablely decided to withdraw as a can­
didate for President.”
Informed that Senate had apparently broken its 
°wn rules by permitting one of the candidates to run 
despite the fact that he submitted his application after
the deadline established some months ago, Hank re­
plied, “Well that would only be taking advantage of 
a mistake by Student Government and would hardly 
justify my request to be on the ballot. Obviously, I 
could look at Senate’s action as establishing a definite 
precedent and actually demand my inclusion on the 
ballot and call for a postponement of all elections un­
til the situation was adequately defined. But I per­
sonally feel that would be neither ethical nor fair to 
the other candidates.”
When he was asked if he wanted to endorse any 
particular candidate, he answered, ‘‘I honestly don’t 
know all of the candidates well enough to endorse 
anyone. Good luck to everyone, and Bring All the Boys 
Home, NOW,”
Walking to the dorms from Skibo at 1:35 a.m. Sat­
urday morning, John Bekish, freshman math major, 
was assaulted and robbed of $50 at the back entrance 
to Skibo.
Two black men, one described as being six feet 
one inch tall and weighing 195 pounds, the other ap­
proximately five feet ten inches, 170 pounds, assaulted 
John from the back hitting him twice in the face. Af­
ter demanding money, the men punched him once 
more breaking his eyeglasses, and took off in the dir­
ection of Forbes Avenue.
According to Chief Young, the security depart­
ment has tried to increase the lighting in that area 
by lighting the lamps under the football stadium.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 —THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 10, 1970
EDITORIALLETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Cavanagh
This year, like most other years, the campaigns for the 
Presidency of Student Government and for Senate seats are 
marked by lack of debate and controversy and a oneness in 
the content of the platforms of the major candidates. Again 
we are listening to the contenders talk about improving com­
munications without answering the question “How?”; again 
we hear that students must have a voice, but no one talking 
about what they should be saying; over and over we hear 
candidates cry out against the apathetic, a description which 
fits too many students on this campus.
Yet despite this pessimistic view, we think that the stu­
dent body is faced with a choice between contrasting past 
performances and personalities. After carefully reviewing the 
qualifications and platforms of the Presidential candidates, 
The Tartan has concluded that Patrick Cavanagh should be 
chosen as Mr. Duckworth’s successor.
The duty of the President of Student Government is to 
present and argue strongly for all motions passed by the 
Senate. In order to carry out this function effectively, the 
President must be aware of the functions of all the officers 
of the University, must understand the distinct and unique 
personality of each, and must have a clear conception and 
knowledge of the internal workings of Student Senate.
In this respect, we find Mr. Cavanagh the most quali­
fied. His contact with top administrators on many important 
committees has given him experience which far outclasses the 
other candidates. Miss Polanick’s and Mr. Ruffner’s exper­
ience has been with particular interest groups rather than 
with the over-all workings of the University. Mr. Salners un­
fortunately has had no experience whatsoever and we therefore 
find it difficult to judge how well he would be capable of per­
forming. Mr. Misitano’s involvement thus far has been admir­
able. We urge him to participate fully in the workings of next 
year’s Senate and to run for President in the next elections.
Within their respective platforms, all the candidates have 
included proposals which we would like to see implement­
ed; Ruffner’s co-ordination of Senate with other campus gov­
erning bodies, Polanick’s weekend health service, Salners’ 
granting of credit to extra-curricular activities, Misitano’s 
on-campus snack shop, and Cavanagh’s Pittsburgh Student 
Union and 24-hour-per-day Skibo operation.
Proposals which we take issue with have also been pre­
sented by the candidates. We are not sure that the administra­
tion has to be worked against, as Miss Polanick seems to im­
ply. We would urge students to work with the administration 
to arrive at mutually satisfactory decisions. We do not ajgree 
with Mr. Misitano’s suggestion that the pass-fail system be 
extended beyond its present function, i.e. to give students the 
opportunity to take a course in which they are unsure of 
their ability to produce high quality work. We cannot sup­
port Mr. Ruffner’s proposal that legislation passed by consti­
tuency groups should be brought before the Senate. Only 
those affected by a piece of legislation or a set of rules 
should have a voice in the passage of them.
We are also not sure that Mr. Salner’s proposal of a co­
op program would be beneficial to the majority of students. 
We must recognize that many students today want to com­
plete their undergraduate education in order to proceed to 
the graduate level of study. In addition, under the present 
system, students who are, for example, interested in com­
munications can work at local radio and television stations 
for academic credit. We further do not agree with the logic 
that because students' tutition pay for 25%» of the University's 
budget they should be given a voice in hiring and firing de­
cisions. Rather they should be given such an input because 
they have the most direct relationship with a professor and 
are capable of making valid judgments of teaching ability.
But these considerations are not of primary importance. 
We think it is far more important to elect the candidate who 
can carry through the best of these proposals than it is to 
elect the proposer.
Mr. Cavanagh is our choice to fulfill both of these re­
sponsibilities.
* * *
Because we believe almost all of the Senatorial candi­
dates to be qualified for the seats, we will not take a posi­
tion regarding these elections.
We would, however, like to indicate our full support for 
Ken Friend for the office of Director of Academic Affairs 
and for Bill Iacono for the post of Director of the Activities 
Board. Both of these candidates are extraordinarily well- 
qualified to handle the responsibilities of these respective 
offices. (See Editorial Pag*3) *
Not Worth One
Editor. The Tartan;
Senator Stephen Young <D-Ohio> has said that 
Laos is “certainly not worth the life of one 
American soldier.''
One must recall Prime Minister Chamber­
lain's comments about Czechoslovakia, and the
American Life
actions on the part of Great Britain that left it 
vulnerable to Nazi aggression.
And remember—Britain had the U.S. to pull it 
out of the fire. Who do we have?
Edward M. McClure. Jr.
Drame '71
Pollution In C-MU Classrooms
Editor. The Tartan:
I am deeply touched by the concern of our 
students about our environment. Will they please 
begin to show their genuine concern by not smok­
ing in our classrooms; not extinguishing their ci­
garettes on the clean floors: not leaving the 
butts there; not littering the floors with paper 
cups, some spilled, others with dregs of coffee in 
them; not tossing paper scraps anywhere except 
in a wastebasket; not breaking up chalk and
grinding it into a dangerously slippery coating; 
and. affluent creatures that they are. not aban­
doning gloves, scarves, unbrellas?
I have had to move my disgusted evening- 
school students from room to room in a search 
for one that looks less like a pigsty or the town 
dump than most of our classrooms and halls at 
C-MU.
Dorothy Goodfellow
Polanick Most Qualified For Office
Tartan, Letter to Editor
I wholeheartedly endorse and support Laurel 
Polanick for President of Student Government. 
To get right to the point. I feel that she is the 
best qualified and capable candidate. She has 
had much experience in both the Student Senate 
and in dealing with the administration. To name 
just a few Student Senate activities: she is now in 
her second year as a Senator, is Chairman of the 
Food Service Committee, has worked on both the 
General Campus and Publicity Committees, she 
is a member of the Junior women's honorary. 
Phi Tau Gamma. As for experience with the ad­
ministration. she has worked on the Special Oc­
casions Committee, with the Alumni Office on 
the recent Junior banquet, with the Counseling
Committee, health service, and others. Besides all
of this, she is a set design major in Fine Arts, 
and works on Crew. What more can I say, she
has and is proving herself as a responsible and
interested student. I urge you to support Laurel 
by voting for her in the Student Government 
elections.
Frank J. Puschak 
Chairman. General Campus Com.
English ’70
A Third Alternative For Polluters
Editor, The Tartan:
One of the most important issues involving the 
pollution problem (which is only a part of the 
ecological problem) is how the main polluters, 
the corporations are going to deal with it. Most 
people think the choice is between taking the 
money necessary for the cleanup from their pro­
fits or making the workers and consumers pay 
for it (in the form of lower wages and higher 
prices). I believe however that corporations 
have come across a third possibility. This plan is 
to leave the pollution alone and make more pro­
fits on products for people to use to survive the 
polution. Examples are special eye glasses, lenses 
or eye salve to protect the eyes from getting ir­
ritated from the air pollution, gas masks, ear 
plugs for noise pollution, special swim suits for 
swimming polluted waters, special clothing to 
keep out radioactivity from color TVs, micro 
wave ovens, nuclear reactors etc., and all soughts 
of drugs for many different purposes. Madison 
Avenue will be creating needs for gas masks, 
lead clothing etc. In a few years you might see 
advertisements that shows that girls really go 
for the guy with the J and L Steel oxygen tank. 
A new field in industry is opening up a field 
which is limited only by man’s imagination. Be­
ware,
Peace, 
John Agatston
Ruffner Best Qualified Candidate
Editor. The Tartan:
During my two years at Carnegie-Mellon Un­
iversity, I have come to know Mark Ruffner 
quite well, primarily through the Men’s Dormi­
tory Council, of which he has been president 
since his freshman year. Of all the candidates for 
President of the Student Senate. Mark possesses 
qualities which are unique. Thus, as the incom­
ing President of the Men’s Dormitory Council, I 
personally fully recommend Mark Ruffner.
According to the Constitution of the Student 
Senate, the presidential office is not so much one 
of introducing legislation or presiding over 
meetings. Rather, it is principally responsible 
for representing this group to the administration 
of the University, and also reversing that path of 
communication. Mark is particularly qualified in 
this respect, for he maintains excellent channels 
of communication at all levels of the administra­
tion. In addition, Mark's activities at CMU 
have included the following:
Member. Student Senate Executive Council.
1968-70
Ex Officio Member, Student Senate, 1968-70.
President, Men’s Dormitory Council, 1968-70.
Member, Men’s Dormitory Council, 1967-70.
Member, Undergraduate Advisory Committee 
(which drafted the original Campus Code), 
1968-69.
Member and Speaker. Student-Alumni Rela­
tions Board, 1969-70.
Member, User Committee (which is formu­
lating the plan for future campus housing).
Member, Coeducational Housing Committee, 
1968-70.
To me, Mark Ruffner is the only significant 
candidate who recognizes the actual role the Stu­
dent Senate and its president plays in campus af­
fairs. Mark has demonstrated his concern for the 
basic needs of the students; in the future he will 
continue to work towards the co-ordination of all 
phases of campus government and administration.
Samuel Frenkil 
President, 1970-71 
Men’s Dormitory Council
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTM: VOTINO MACHINE BALLOT. II »0*0
Each student will vote in only one row, ac­
cording to his constituency; Dormitory, Row A; 
A.W.S., Row B; Fraternity, Row C; Commuter, 
Row D; Graduate, Row E.
To vote by write-in push up the slide at the 
top of the machine **tr the office for which votf
wish to vote, and write in the name of the per­
son of your choice. Be sure the slide you push 
up is over the same office column for the office 
for which you desire to vote. Do not write in the 
name which is already printe^ on the ballot for 
that same office.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 10, 1970—THE TARTAN—Page 3
CiefYfioun CgiRYsD crnYoYren
Cavanagh
PLATFORM:
1. To place students where they can 
best affect the welfare of the student
body.
On faculty promotion committees 
On departmental curriculum com­
mittees
On the Board of Trustees
2. To implement programs to better 
serve students.
A student run discipline system 
A Pittsburgh Student Association to 
further the views and combined activi­
ties of Pittsburgh area college and uni­
versity students.
A more responsible allocation of the 
$90,000 Student Government budget to 
provide a wider range of student acti­
vities.
A Birth Control Clinic 
Open ing of Skibo for 24 hours a 
day.
3. To remove administration control 
from student services.
...Student run bookstore so that the Ad­
ministration will not siphon of profits 
from student expenditures.$a
Student control of Food Services and 
Skibo, we should have a Student Union 
not an Administration Union. 2,500 new 
dormitory spaces are needed in the next 
five years, the only answer is student 
owned (through government financing) 
and operated apartments has have been 
implemented at many other universities.
EXPERIENCE:
...Patrick Cavanagh has had the exten­
sive experience that is necessary for this 
job.
As a EE undergraduate at McGill, a 
University of 16.000 students, he was 
Vice-President of his fraternity, editor of 
the monthly Engineering newspaper (The 
Plumbers' Pot). Engineering represen­
tative to the Students' Society, and on 
the campus honor society.
In the past two years at CMU he has 
held various positions in Student Govern­
ment:
Chairman, Student Senate 1969-70 
Chairman Birth Control Committee 
1969-70 
. Student Senator 1968-70;
He has also been a member of many 
committees dealing with administration 
and faculty:
President Stever's Policy Advisory 
Board 1969-70. and its Emergency Sub­
committee which are composed of the 
Vice-Presidents and the academic Deans. 
These committees advise on all major uni­
versity policy decisions
The Conference Committee on Cam­
pus Code 1969-70 that has endeavoured to 
set up the campus judicial system
The Faculty Senate Educational Pol­
icy Council 1969, that deals with aca­
demic decisions
The Board of Trustees Committee on 
Student Affairs 1969-70. that has initiat­
ed the study of placing students on the 
Board.
Misitano
by VINCE MISITANO
ME:
I'm VJ. I'm a student senator. I'm on 
the Finance Committee, and I'm chair­
man of the publicity committee. Here 
are some of my ideas:
SH NOW:
Doing quite a lot of good things, like 
getting people on college council seats, 
like talking Warner Hall into increasing 
its budget (so you can have speakers like 
Schlessinger and Thurmond, and only 
pay $8 or $10 a couple for a Homecoming 
or Carnival that should cost you $20.) 
Soon we’ll be pulling our own (student 
run) judicial system, and were trying 
for representation on the Board of Trus­
tees.
SG FUTURE:
Should continue programs listed 
above, and push for these new ones:
1) a concerted effort to increase on- 
campus security now,
2) a committee to make a compre­
hensive study into the possibility 
of instituting an optional pass-fail 
grading system.
3) an on-campus snak-shop. with such 
articles as lunch cakes, donuts, 
cokes, cigarettes, milk, bread, 
cheese, lunchmeat, and other sim­
ilar goods that students must now 
travel almost a mile to obtain.
YOU:
SG has failed in its responsibility to 
communicate with YOU. the C-MU stu­
dent. Many of its actions go unnoticed 
by the student body, and a general disin­
terest in SG is evident, (especially at 
election time, when barely enough can­
didates appear to fill the offices.) I pro­
pose to set up strong communications 
links to the students with the following 
program: Have widely publicized open 
meetings of all senators from a consti­
tuency every three weeks, to be held at 
some location and time convenient to all 
members of that constituency. External 
Senate committees would be set up to 
work on the problems particular to each 
constituency. This program would pro­
vide the needed interface between stu­
dents and SG that is now missing.
Vincent J. Misitano Jr.
Polanick
Students have more power than we 
realize. If we want something (i.e., more 
security) all we have to do is keep on the
Laurel
administration’s back until we get it. The 
administration has many issues on hand 
and admits it takes action only on the 
most "pressing” issues. It's up to us to 
make our issues ‘ pressing." We can't 
expect the administration to hand us 
things on a silver platter, even if they are 
improvements or services we need. If we 
want something, it's up to us, the stu­
dent body, to get it.
Student Government must serve as 
the “unified voice” of the CMU campus 
community in making demands known 
to the administration and pushing until 
we get results.
Platform:
More lighting and security
Campus discount store
Weekend Health Service
Student representation on the Board 
of Trustees
Commuter House$a
Laurel Polanick
Salners
by JIM SALNERS
I decided to become a candidate for 
the Student Government Presidency be­
cause I felt I could offer a more feasi­
ble approach to these most pressing Uni­
versity issues; relavency in University 
education, student involvement in Uni­
versity policy making, and a student sen­
ate more responsive to the general stu­
dent body with each constituency there­
in represented.
Platform
1) Work on instituting an effective 
Co-Op work-study program similar to 
that presently existing at our Universi­
ties. The Co-Op program consisting of al­
ternate work and study terms is viable be­
cause students are afforded a means to 
subsidize their University education 
while acquiring practical experience.
2) Propose a system wherein students 
could acquire accredidation for various 
extra-curricular activities in fields rela­
tive to their majors. For example; the 
Tartan — journalism credit. Student Gov­
ernment and other such leadership posi­
tions — business and accounting credit, 
cheerleaders and IM sports — physical 
education credit. Although classroom in­
struction is basic in building a founda­
tion. it cannot supply the actual exper­
ience so influencial in the growth and 
advancement of each person.
31 Students' tuition provides appro­
ximately 25 per cent of the University 
financial resources. It should then be 
clearly evident that students should have 
a say in the hiring and firing policies 
at the University. A case in point — re­
cent dismissals in the Painting and Eng­
lish Departments. These dismissals have 
resulted in the departure of other highly 
qualified instructors. Such apparently ir­
responsible action threatens to set the 
University in termoil.
4) I would like to revive the question 
as to whether instructors in undergrad­
uate courses should be saddled with a 
yearly publishing quota. While it is clear 
that graduate instructors must research 
and publish to remain prominent in their 
fields, it is not manifest that the same 
requirement be imposed on undergradu­
ate instructors teaching fundamental 
courses.
5) Work to expand on the interdis­
ciplinary and independent studies pro­
grams is essential in improving our uni­
versity. The strict classroom instruction 
no longer meets all the needs of today's 
student. Outside studies enable students 
to see the University in its proper pre- 
spective.
6) Elected representatives of the stu­
dent body should be allowed to attend 
Board of Trustees meetings to keep the 
students informed of policy decisions.'
Ruffner
I agree with the other candidates 
that perhaps the main problem facing 
the next President of the Student Senate 
is a general lack of interest on the part 
of most students. I also believe, however, 
that if the Senate were to deal in a more 
dynamic way with issues that directly 
concerned more people (such as prior­
ity for Skibo Student Union facilities), 
the whole campus would naturally take 
greater interest. The problem with the 
Senate is not one of communication 
per se, but of real representation.
I believe that this can be corrected 
largely by making both the President 
and the Senators more responsive to the 
organizations representing each particu­
lar constituency. It is essential for the 
Senate to co-ordinate with other campus 
organizations. Last year the Men’s Dor­
mitory Council and the Student Senate 
worked together successfully to secure 
a housing rebate, and a commitment for 
a new dormitory complex. Legislative 
co-ordination of such a nature should be 
the President’s prime responsibility. I 
will personally attend as many campus 
organizations as possible, and Mark Wel- 
tman, whom I would appoint to Dr. Ste- 
ver’s Policy Advisory Board, would assist 
me in that endeavor. Senators should 
likewise be responsible to more than 
just the Senate.
In the past, the members of the Stu­
dent Senate Executive Council (the pre­
sidents or representatives of the differ­
ent constituencies) have been criticized 
for their power to veto Senate legisla­
tion. One of their main responsibilities 
should be to present relative legislation 
of their own organizations for Senate en­
dorsement. All legislation presented to the 
administration should have enough cam­
pus support to merit immediate, careful 
attention — I intend to see that it does.
Decrease in Campus Crime; 
Students More Aware, Alert
by THOMAS COLE
William Young, chief of Cam­
pus Security, reported last week 
at C-MU a sharp decrease in ma­
jor campus crime.
Assault cases dropped from an 
average of 6.3 per month last se­
mester to 1.4 per month. Theft 
and burglary cases decreased 
trom 45.5 to 20 per month.
Though vehicle theft cases have 
risen from 3.27 to 4.70 per 
month. the combined number of 
assault, burglary-theft, and ve­
hicle theft cases has fallen 53 per 
cent.
Chief Young attributed the 
crime decrease to recent security 
force changes and more student 
awareness.
Increased overtime has extend­
ed security coverage. Scheduling 
changes have directed more se­
curity to chronic assault scenes 
like Morewood Ave., betweeen 
Forbes and Fifth. Here eight as­
sault cases were reported one 
night last semester.
Student awareness of crime has 
influenced coeds to walk in groups 
rather than alone on Morewood 
Ave. Increasing amounts of “sus­
picious persons reports by stu­
dents have deterred potential 
crime.
Chief Young credits illegal 
drugs a major cause of campus 
crime. Off campus junkies were 
frequently responsible for this 
school year’s 197 cases of theft 
and burglary.
He stated that federal drug law 
enforcement has recently lower­
ed illegal drug supplys. raising 
prices. Destitute city junkies, get­
ting roughly a 20 per cent price 
return on stolen goods, must steal 
more to “feed their habit.” As 
there is no “fence” between C-MU 
and Pittsburgh, the campus is af­
fected.
| Keep the Chief !
Primarily because the administration has failed to include 
the Security Department in discussions concerning the safety 
of the campus, Chief W. Dwayne Young has submitted his 
resignation. His absence will be a great loss not only to the 
men on the force but also to the campus at large.
Chief Young has indicated that he would be willing to 
stay if certain procedural changes were made. In order to 
keep this dedicated man on the force, we recommend that 
(1) a policy decision be made to include the Chief of Secur­
ity Operations in all discussions concerning safety proce­
dures; (2) a review be undertaken immediately of last year’s 
decision to prevent security officers from carrying firearms; 
(3) the security force be increased by the necessary six 
men; and (4) that the Department of Security and Safety be 
put directly under the jurisdiction of one of the Vice-Presi­
dents.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 10, 1970Young
(Continued from Page 1)
In addition, the members of the security force 
are asked regularly to work overtime. “You can’t be 
expected to perform to the best of your ability when 
you’ve been on the job for 63 hours in the space of one 
week,” an officer on the force commented.
In an early morning press conference with the 
full 21 man force requested by the Tartan and WRCT, 
the security officers agreed with Chief Young that the 
decision to prevent the carrying of firearms from 7 
a.m. to 8 p.m. did not take into consideration the 
deterrent effect of a weapon and the effect on the 
morale of the force itself.
“It’s humiliating,” said one of the 21 men, all of 
whom have been trained in the use of guns.
“We need all the equipment, not just part of it,” 
Chief Young stated, “in order to cope with a problem 
not yet identified. To work with less than full equip­
ment is not giving the proper consideration to the 
campus community or to the officer responding to the 
call. We would like to know that the equipment is 
available to act as a deterrent.”
“How can you prevent someone from committing 
a crime with a spray can of tear gas?” asked an offi­
cer.
When asked whether or not he thought other offi­
cers would quit as a result of his resignation, Chief 
Young responded, “I hope not. I am anxious that they
continue to serve the campus community.” But as one 
member of the force said, and the others agreed, 
“We don’t want to lose him. If he leaves, the adminis­
tration will have to replenish the entire security 
force.” “Keep the Chief” might become the new slogan 
of the Security Force.
The complaint that the department has not been 
consulted in administrative decisions concerning the 
force was reiterated by both Chief Young and the 
members of the security patrol. “Changes have not 
been made with consultation with the professionalism 
I claim to deliver,” said the Chief.
“We feel like puppets,” said one officer. “We de­
serve an explanation.”
The officers attacked the administration's sche­
duling guidelines, “I don’t think they know the first 
thing about scheduling, and President Stever’s state­
ment that he would review the necessity of carrying 
firearms in light of the increasing number of incidents 
involving security on campus.
“When the administration tells you they are going 
to do something, they are only kidding," said a pa­
trolman who added that “I think it’s a crime to make 
a scarecrow out of the security men. You wouldn't 
take a hammer away from a carpenter.”
Vice President Strathmeyer, when asked by a 
WRCT reporter to comment on the Chief’s resigna­
tion, responded that he thought the transferral of re­
sponsibilities could be handled without difficulty, add­
ing that he and Mr. Thomas could supervise the de­
partment until a replacement could be found, precise­
ly the interference objected to by the members of the 
force.
“Personally, I don't believe it will have a great 
effect at all,” Mr. Strathmeyer said.
Although some members of the administration of­
fered the explanation for the resignation commenting 
that perhaps the Chief had found a better job some­
where else. Chief Young said that although he had 
several job offers, he had not accepted any of them. 
“I am looking for work,” he declared.
Chief Young asked the campus community to con­
tinue their support of this “most dedicated group.” 
Help and cooperation from students and coverage by 
both the Tartan and WRCT has been the “biggest help 
in reducing the problem,” he concluded.
The administration has accepted Mr. Young’s re­
signation “with regret,” pointing out that “during Mr. 
Young’s incumbency the Security force on campus 
added a great many services designed to assist camp­
us personnel; these included the expansion and met­
ering of student parking, the provision of ambulance 
service, and a high level of police professionalism.”
Mr. Young has been with the University since 1962 
when he came to the campus to organize C-MU’s first 
security operation. He is a 16 year veteran of police 
forces. Chief Young graduated from Westminster Col­
lege and received his degree in Business Administra­
tion. He also attended FBI training school and Penn­
sylvania training programs.
Applications Now Acceptable For Tartan Staff
Applications are now being ac­
cepted for all positions on the 1970- 
71 Tartan. Each applicant must 
submit a letter to Erica Borden, 
Room 50, Skibo, by Friday, March 
13. The letter must state the spe­
cific position applied for, a list of 
qualifications and activities, and 
a statement of what the applicant 
would like to do as a member of 
the Tartan staff. Applicants 
should consider ways in which 
they feel the quality of the paper 
might be improved, and indicate 
how they intend to function in the 
specific position they wish to fill. 
Ideas and ability are to be stress­
ed; actual experience on the pre­
sent staff is not necessary.
For those who are uncertain as 
to the nature of specific jobs on 
the newspaper, a brief outline fol­
lows. All editorial and business 
positions are open:
The editor-in-chief heads the en­
tire staff. He coordinates, through 
his editorials and through the 
overall emphasis of the newspa­
per, the editorial position of the 
Tartan. The editor’s stand touches 
all issues of relevance to the cam­
pus and community life of the C- 
MU student. As chief of staff, the 
editor also runs the actual “busi­
ness” of producing a campus 
newspaper. Thus, the editor is su­
pervisor of all other departments, 
from news to circulation.
The managing editor works di­
rectly under the editor-in-chief. 
He oversees copy deadlines, lay­
out, staff assignments, special 
projects, etc.
The business manager runs the 
financial end of things. He must 
determine the length of each is­
sue of the paper according to how 
much money is available. He is
also the dispenser of all other 
monies for travel, paper ex­
change, etc. The business mana­
ger heads and supervises the busi­
ness staff, consisting of local and 
national ad managers, the circula­
tion manager and staff.
The news editor heads the news 
staff of free-lance and beat re­
porters. He assigns stories to 
writers and photographers, sees 
that they meet the deadlines Wed­
nesdays and Sundays, sees that 
stories are typed properly on our 
margins, and edits as necessary 
all copy before it goes to the copy 
desk.
The feature editor and his staff 
are responsible for articles of spe­
cial nature that are outside the 
realm of news, such as theatre re- 
viws, cultural events, columns of 
opinions, etc.
Sports editor makes the final 
preparations of the printed ma­
terial before the paper is laid out. 
At the copy desk, stories are 
counted for length, proofread and 
set up with an special effects as 
needed, such as bold or italic type, 
breakers between long para­
graphs, etc.
The layout editor heads a staff 
that lays out the entire paper be­
fore it goes to the printer, and 
writes all headlines and cutlines 
for articles and pictures.
Applications for all of these 
positions will be reviewed by the 
present staff after vacation. De­
cisions will be released April 10 
at which time the new staff will 
take over production of the paper.
Anyone on campus is encour­
aged to take part in the production 
of the Tartan. To maintain its posi­
tion as a vital campus communica­
tions organ, the Tartan needs a 
dedicated and qualified staff. Ap­
ply now to be a part of next year’s 
Tartan.
SIGN 1>P BY 
Friday, March 13! 
FOR
EDITOR ALHLuTmOHuman Relations
(Sensitivity)Workshop
AT 57 SKIBO
Trainers:
LEE BOLMAN, GSIA 
SALLY PEARNE, Psychology
VISIT THE
TARTAN
COFFEEHOUSE8 p3£ till 1 Z
No Admission Charge, Free Coffee
Sponsored By
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
& MEN'S Be rns COUNCIL
^oinAMERICAN AIR TRAYALAIRS
Jo 3ort jauderjje 
INCLUDES: ONLY $100 COMPLETE
TAM MEMBERSHIP ROUND TRIP AIR FARE
BREAKFAST AND BOXED LUNCHEON ON PLANE
LEAVE 9 A.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, COUNTY Al RPORT, WEST Ml FFLIN 
LEAVE FT. LAUDERDALE AIRPORT. 10 A.M. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1
HURRY - ONLY 35 RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE - HURRY
PHONE: 824-5001 - After 6 P.M. McKeesport - 672-7485
anelnti o
••••• • • •••• • • • • •••• ••••• • ••• • •••• ••••• ••• • • • •• • • ••• • •• • • •• • • • • • • •• •• ••• M • • •• • • • • A • • * • « • • • f • • • •••••• ••• i • • • ••• • • • i..* ¡*V •• •••%•• • • • . t i • V •• • • • • • • • % • • • • m • • • • •• • • •••• • • • • • • •• • •
More brilliant, new short film imports from this 
unique three-part international festival of creative 
and provocative cinema achievements from 9 
nations....
....among them....
tiowOu AplcOaNNw “Versailles.” b FTiaw SfOaNuaw pJ3 sajfpwi 
SpaJw aJ “Tonight Let's All Make Love in London." b Scid
ipCw eOp—fajN DOcl ShwjfcNicypMap b ewOlpJ Sclw3, cD 
ufw toNTO3 b KOpyTOp nupiapJ BOplpg
KINBTIC ART - PROGRAM TWO 
WHERRETT ROOM 
SATURDAY 
MARCH 14-7:30 and 10:00 
SUNDAY
MARCH 15 - 2:00 - 4:30 - 7:30 and 10:00 
TICKETS — $1.00 at Skibo Information Desk 
SPONSORED BY THE ACTIVITIES BOARD

---------------------------------------------------

Construction
(Continued from Page 1)
trading sponsor, university representa­
tives. and the bidders. At this meeting 
the university presents a list of specifi­
jpuacJN they will expect from the con­
tractor awarded the job. In this manner 
all would-be conflicts are settled before 
the job begins, and the need to halt a 
job in progress is eliminated. The uni­
versity basically has no obligation to 
the contractor in regard to his work force, 
other than perhaps to suggest where he 
might find skilled minority group work­
ers to meet the specifications. Another 
advantage of preaward agreements is 
that noncompliance is more easily deter­
mined by the Agency conducting the re­
Tuesdoy, March 10, 1970—THE TARTAN—Pag« 5
view as the compliance standards have 
been made specific.$a
E. Universities should band togeth­
er and bypass those contractors who will 
not meet the specifications set. Call in 
the community for ideas on ways to ob­
tain equal employment practices. So far 
under the new plan in Philadelphia, 
there have been no contractors who have 
refused to bid on jobs because of the 
specifications.
F. Collectively request a full time 
man in Pittsburgh from the OFCC. De­
mand Federal Government support for 
not starting any new construction pro­
jects until a satisfactory solution to the 
problem has been reached.$a
Several legal issues were explored in 
regard to this matter.
1. Seattle - 15 non-union black crafts­
men were hired by the contractor per 
agreement with the sponsor, and the un­
ion members walked off the job when 
the craftsmen showed up to work. The 
Department of Justice brought a pattern 
of practice suit against the unions at the 
request of the OFCC. The case is pre­
sently in court.
2. Winer vs. Cuyahoga Community 
College - The College’s legal counsel 
and the OFCC denied the lowest bidder 
the contract because he would not state 
that he would comply. The case was 
taken to court and the College position 
was sustained.$a
3. Chicago - The Chicago agency, 
HUD, declared 17 contractors were not 
in compliance with the nondiscrimination
law. All contracts are being withheld 
until they comply.
4. Norris-La Guardia Act - This act 
offers theoretical support to the college 
or university stopping ongoing construc­
tion if they consider there is noncompli- 
ance.$a
After the Labor Board representatives 
left, discussion between the University 
representatives followed on what course 
of action should be taken next. It was 
suggested by one participant that a 
committee made up of representatives 
from every college draw up a proposed, 
unified hiring process.
The final conclusion was:
A., six university representatives stat­
ed an interest in unifying action.
Birth Control Booklet Available
by MURRAY SINGER
The long awaited Birth Con­
trol Handbook has finally reach­
ed the CMU campus. As a re­
sult of the year-long efforts of 
the Birth Control Committee, 
under the chairmanship of Pat­
rick Cavanagh, CMU students 
will be able to pick up copies 
of the Handbook at the informa­
tion center at Skibo upon pre­
sentation of their ID cards.
The Birth Control Committee 
was originated in 1968-69 with 
the intent of providing the cam­
pus with accurate and complete 
information on how to avoid 
unwanted pregnancies. Because 
high schools and universities have 
decided to ignore the growing 
sexual freedom of young peo­
ple as well as the accompany­
ing with respect to these mat­
ters. The major project of the 
Birth Control Committee, there­
fore, involved obtaining a reli­
able and inexpensive publication 
which would deal with the is­
sues of contraception and abor­
tion.
The Birth Control Handbook 
was originally written by a 
group of gynecologists and stu­
dents at McGill University of 
Montreal. The booklet, however, 
could not be shipped to CMU 
due to American import restric­
tions. A subsequent decision was 
made to reprint the Handbook in 
Pittsburgh for distribution at 
CMU, Pitt and Chatham College 
even though the cost would be 
more than twice that of obtain­
ing it from Montreal. At this 
point the arrival of the Hand­
book was delayed while a second 
edition was prepared by the edi­
tors. During this delay it was 
realized that the Handbook might 
be imported if the border guards 
at the particular crossing were 
not aware of a specific restric­
tion in the booklet. Buffalo was 
picked as the crossing and the 
customs officials were question­
ed by Cavanagh to determine 
whether they were aware of 
these restrictions. They were not, 
and so 10,000 copies of the 
Handbook were delivered to 
London. Ontario last week
THE UNIVERSITY BLAZER 
and our bold-striped Odd Trousers
For blazer—or any other solid color 
sport jacket—we believe you will find 
these handsome Odd Trousers a most dis­
tinctive complement. Woven exclusively 
for us in Scotland, they come in bold strip- 
ings in Tartan colorings of red, navy and 
green...or yellow green and red. Even 
sizes 30 to 36. $32
Our navy Unrvcrsity blazer is a slimming 
six-button double-breasted model of 
medium-weight wool and mohair blend.
Deep side vents, $95
ESTABLISHED ISIS
S£ens ^ Boys liirnishings. v'SHocs
600 SMITHFIELD ST. * MELLON SQ., PITTSBURGH, PA. 15222
ATLANTA • BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANCEL1S NEW YORK • SAN FRANCISCO • SCARSDALE • WASHINGTON
where they were hastened on to 
Pittsburgh by Cavanagh and 
Vincent Misistano in a daring 
international manoeuvre, involv­
ing the hiring of a lawyer to 
pass customs.
The Birth Control Handbook 
is free. Every student is entitled 
to a copy, and because of the 
quality of the publication should 
take the trouble to drop over 
to the Skibo Information Desk. 
The Birth Control Handbook is 
also a testament to the coopera­
tion which exists today among 
students. The Handbook was re­
produced at cost despite the fact 
that the possibility of a small 
profit may have been enticing 
to the McGill Student Society. 
Cooperation of this nature is 
one of the few reasons to feel 
optimistic about anything these 
days.
WALLY’S SHOES
3612 Forbes St. MU2-2928
Popular Price-Famous Makes 
Mtn-Womtn Casual and Drass Shorn
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS AND 
MEMBERS OF THE FACULTY: This is 
the last bake sal* that the Carnegie* 
Mellon Dames will be sponsoring this 
year. And believe me, you don't 
want to miss itl This bake sale will 
be held on Thursday, March 12th in 
the main lobby of Skibo. The Dames 
will be there from 8:00 a.m. until 
everything is sold. So come to Skibo 
lobby and have breakfast or even 
lunch with the Dames. That's Thurs­
day, March 12th. See you then!
Student Judicial System 
To Guarantee Rights
by JOE DUCKWORTH
The Student Government Elections this Thursday and Friday will 
not be for the sole purpose of electing officers for the coming year. 
Also to be considered is the proposed new judicial system as print­
ed in the Tartan February 27 with amendments as noted in the is­
sue of March 6.
The main points of the Student Judicial System include a stu­
dent dominated three-tiered structure with a student court of origi­
nal jurisdiction, and appellate student court, and final appeal rest­
ing in the University. The proposal includes a comprehensive list 
of guarantees of due process and freedom from dole jeapardy 
within the limits of civil law.
This proposed system is in two major ways different from the pre­
sent system. First, it is student dominated rather than governed prin­
cipally by faculty and administrators. Second, it guarantees rights and 
freedoms of students and guarantees of due process while the present 
system includes none. Under the proposed system the University may 
not act unilaterially but must observe the courts and the rights of due 
process. The defendent has the right to an open or closed hearing as 
as the right to legal counsel. The new system also proposes guarnatees 
against double jeopardy from civil and university action.
One very important consideration should be made in voting for 
ratification of the new system—that is that a negative vote means con­
tinuation of the present dominated judicial system.
ENGINEERING GRADUATES
The Inland Steel Company, Indiana Harbor Works, East Chicago, Indiana, 
invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the speci­
fic job description in the pocket of our brochure. Our representatives will 
be on your campus on
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1970
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
INDIANA HARBOR WORKS
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program
COME IN AND SEE ... IF YOU WANTI 
KIRANIA XENAKIS Poetry Written nmlKenil
MICHELE TS0URIS Lyric* nini Music Com*ttr^o Be Hitttio
ST. NICHOLAS CATHEDRAL COFFEE HOUSE 
dithridg* Str««t - Oakland
Friday, March 13,1*70 • * to IS P.M. - Donation SO<

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 10, 1970
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Why Involvement In Vietnam Is Necessary
Editor, The Tartan:
The article by Steve Friedman on how the draft 
changed his life is such as to make a reply appro­
priate.
Mr. Friedman states that he could never kill for 
the reasons which the president has set forth as jus­
tifications for our involvement in Southeast Asia, an 
assertion with man ramifications.
We are fighting in Vietnam, for example, in or­
der to prevent the deliberate extermination of what 
would undoubtedly be several hundred thousand 
South Vietnames, a few of whom, admittedly, have 
been corrupt, but the vast majority of whom have 
only striven to defend their country from being vio­
lently engulfed by its northern neighbor. That the 
North Vietnamese would do this cannot be seriously 
contested; they executed between 50 and 300 tho- 
sand innocent persons when they took control of the 
north in 1954; they would have massacred far more 
if a million refugees hadn’t fled this oppression and 
moved into South Vietnam. More recently, the North 
Vietnames murdered over 2,000 thousand civilians 
when they briefly held control of Hue during 1968.
Mr. Friedman may state that we are killing 
innocent people also, and that this somehow excuses 
the North Vietnamese for doing so. First, what we 
do can constitute no justification, moral or other­
wise for far greater acts of evil on the part of the 
Northeners. Second, there is in fact no valid com­
parison between what we are doing and what the 
North Vietnames are doing for the Communist have 
a purposeful policy of annihilation of innocent civili­
ans, while the United States and allies have no such 
policy, but, on the contrary, consciously attempt to 
avoid the civilian deaths. Mylai was a grievous 
aberration, which the President stated was abhor­
rent to America. Has any Northern Communist ever 
stated the same about Hue?
We are also in South Vietnam to defend its peo­
ple from the other many evils of communism. In the 
communist state, there is conscious harrassment of 
religion, no free enterprise, no political liberty, and 
a denial of basic human dignity.
Mr. Friedman would not desire such a system 
in his own country; how then could he wish it on an­
other? He would surely fight to prevent the estab­
lishing of such a system of slavery here; how could 
he disagree with the crusade to prevent its estab­
lishment in Vietnam under the guise of “National 
Liberation” by the Viet Cong and North Vietnames? 
To suggest that peace with slavery is more worth­
while than the struggle to preserve freedom being 
conducted by the United States and allies is to accept 
in principle a 1984 existence rather than one, 
which when we have won the war, could only be com­
pared with the Land of Beulah.
Could Mr. Friedman be such a misanthropic 
barbarian as to deny all the values that our civiliza­
tion holds dear, or would he answer with Patrick 
Henry, “Give me liberty or give me death?” If, as 
I hope, Mr. Friedman sides with that eminent Vir­
ginian, then he does not mean what he wrote.
Thus far it has been shown that the interests 
of the South Vietnamese require our involvement 
in their country. Mr. Friedman could not be so 
crass as to ignore these, but if one did, it would still 
be in the best interests of the American people for 
us to be there. First, the moral cause of freedom of 
which we are the prime protector, suffers whenever 
one man or one square inch of territory that was 
previously free falls victim to the amoral cause of 
communism.
Second, if we do not draw the line against com­
munist aggression in Vietnam, we must merely pay 
more dearly when we draw the line someplace else 
closer to home, or before home itself. Third, the en­
tire world is watching to see whether or not the Unit­
ed States regards it treaties as more than paper, 
its pledges more than words, its fallen heroes 
more than statistics, and its ideals more than hippo- 
cracy. If we shirk our responsibility, adbicate 
morally, and withdraw our troops without a victory, 
then our treaties, pledges, men and ideals could 
only be regarded as wothless. Surely, Mr. Fried­
man could not agree to such a defiling of our national 
character.
In view of our much vaunted “domestic prior­
ities” shall or should we be willing to make the sac­
rifices necessary to carry on to victory? The an­
swer was given by John F. Kennedy in his inaugural 
address. “We shall pay any price, bear any hard­
ship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure 
that the survival and success of liberty.”
In closing, something should also be said about 
Mr. Friedman’s statements regarding cowardice 
and principles. It is my conviction that I can better 
serve my country as an officer than as an enlisted 
man. When I graduate, I will be in a position to serve 
in a lieutenant’s capacity. (Their death rate is high­
er than that of any other rank.) If any war is in pro­
gress anywhere, I will volunter to be sent there, and 
will be fully prepared to give my life if that is re­
quired of me.
I believe in an absolute system of morals based 
upon the Bible, and I am certain that my position is 
in total accordance with this system. Thus, although 
I cannot with certainty make, physically speaking, 
the statement of Mr. Friedman, “I’ll be albe to 
live.” I can make such a statement spiritually speak­
ing. I certainly hope that Mr. Friedman comes even­
tually to believe in a similar position.
Henry A. Cnristoph, Jr.
Chemistry, 1973
It's UMOC Time Again
Editor, The Tartan:
It’s that time of year again. 
Time to search your organization, 
closet, or private dungeion for 
your entry in the “Ugliest Man on 
Campus” contest. As usual, Kappa 
chapter of Alpha Phi Omega is 
sponsoring the contest. We invite 
you to find your ugly man and en­
ter him in the contest. The only 
rules are that the contestant be a 
male student, preferably ugly. If 
your organization is one consist­
ing solely of females (i.e., a sor-
ority), A Phi O invites you to dig 
up an ugly male mascot, janitor, 
or pet as an entry.
Since the first ugly man crawl­
ed up from the fifth sublevel of 
Hamerschlag Hall may years ago, 
little has changed in the contest. 
This year, however, all money re­
ceived will go to the lunch pro­
gram in the Pittsburgh school sys­
tem. The drive for money organ­
ized by private individuals is de­
signed to give the kuT3wJuN in the 
Board of Education’s 44 elemen-
LUXURY FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
Oakland - Shadyside - Squirrel Hill
A. C., G. E. Dishwashers, Intercoms, Sauna, Gamerooms, etc. 
Available on sublet for May 1st or for September 1st. 
$210.00 up, the A. R. Corp., 261-4463, evenings, 683-9591.
OPENING MARCH 11th
A NEW CONCERT & DANCE HALL
FOR PITTSBURGH CALLED
SMAP
Sunshine Music America and Peace 
For Purpose of Promoting Rock Groups
SCHEDULE FOR MARCH IS AS FOLLOWS:
Wednesday, March 11th—
10 WHEEL DRIVE AND CATFISH 
Friday, March 13th—
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO.
Saturday, March 14th—
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO.
Wednesday, March 18th—
JOHN MAYALL 
Friday, March 20th—
RARE EARTH
Saturday, March 21st— 
RARE EARTH 
Wednesday, March 25th— 
DREAMS 
Friday, March 27th— 
DREAMS 
Saturday, March 28th— 
DREAMS
TWO SHOWS on each of the above n:ghts, 7:30 and 10:30. Located ot Broad 
Street Mall. Tickets in odvcnce are available at Brotherhood and Listening 
Post. Also Wicker World. Come one, come all, we love you. Worthwhile 
organizations will receive promotion on Thursdcys starting March 12. On 
"Hunger Week" Groups will play.—50c.
Newsmen will be admtted on Opening Nite upon presentation of Press card.
tary schols in “poverty neighbor­
hoods” a chance to learn on a full 
stomach. More literature will be 
sent regarding this program in the 
near future.
Voting will be the usual one pen- 
ney—one vote, taking place at Ski­
bo and Baker Hall. The times will 
be from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., 
April 13, 14, 15, and April 16. 
You are encouraged to try all pos­
sible means to raise funds, as long 
as illegal door to door off campus 
soliciting is not used. In the past, 
slave sales, cookie sales, and par­
ties have been used to raise mon­
ey-
The pictures are going to tak­
en on Wednesday, April 1. An en­
try fee of $2 will be charged at 
that time. The fee will cover the 
cost of three photographs, one of 
which will be sent to you.
If your candidate wins, he will 
receive the coveted Ugly Mug at 
Spring Carnival. This mug is guar­
anteed ugly enough to hold any ugly 
liquid for your ugly man (drink 
for the savage beast). For that 
group which enters the candidate 
who wasn’t quite ugly enough to 
make it, a second place mug will 
be given. UMOC will give your or­
ganization the opportunity to get 
publicity, earn money for charity, 
and work and have fun together.
To nominate your ugly man, re­
turn the attached form by March 
31. If you can’t choose your ugly 
man right away, leave that space 
blank, but be sure the form is in 
for picture scheduling. Any ques­
tions should be referred to me at 
Box 157, Campus mail Early re­
sponse would be greatly appreci­
ated.
Thank you, 
Seth Karpen 
1970 UMOC Chairman
TAPE, TALK &
TURETSKY
Thursday, March 12th
BERT TURETSKY, University of California
2:30 P.M.—
FILM AND DISCUSSIONS 
Wherrett Room
. Harry Partch
4:30 P.M.—
RAP SESSION in Woodlawn Art Gallery
8:30 P.M.—
CONCERT ON DOUBLE BASS with Stereo Tapes 
Ballroom
sEWW urTk DTHuhIW mI pTkk mOW mV urW RIWLu mOWk mV LSS uTpWNC— Dorothy Manners, King Features
HOMEWORKERS WANTED
Envelope addressers; send Self Ad­
dressed, Stamped Envelope. OVER­
SEAS JOBS; HIGH PAY, List of Com­
panies Hiring; $1.00. The Elliot Co., 
748 Washington Ave. Miami Beach, 
Florida 33139.
RESERVED 
SEATS NOW 
BOX-OFFICE 
OR BY MAIL
\TPATTON
CarnC
956 LIBERTY AYE. 
DOWNTOWN 
PHONE: 281-6773
All Evenings at 8:30 
Sun. thru Thurs. Eve.Orch ft Mezz.............$2.50Balcony ..................$2.00
Fri. ft Sat. Eve.Orch. ft Mezz........ $3.00Balcony ..................$2.50
Matinees at 2:00 P.M. 
Sunday Mat.Orch A Mezz........ $2.50Balcony $2.00
Wed. ft Sat. Mat.Orch. ft Mezz......... $2.25Balcony ...................$1.75
Seats also at Network Ticket
NO
GEOIMiEC. / KARLMALDEN*» GeGt»'*e S *•!»•* AiGe«*'»i 0"»e* N
in
"PATTON"
L RUNK NjSsTsT R nu si nN n kSHaRRNDi sOOUSTWN RUNK DjSsnOT 
RssKnnsn kSHtaRNui b RnsSn? ROU SVDOAt n EBsUNB N NOUN
'LJÍNscTD *auuaal*JOTcaNTN Bern stn ioern i iwrw
f ssN stDiiST •—xFÍsT sAO kHn nH ¡¡¡¡““""njj
MIN II ÏÏ5HÏÏ'EEFGP«
Agencies Located in all National Record Marts
W SHOWING

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 10, 1970—THE TART AN—Page 7
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Election Law Reversal Dangerous, Unethica
Editor. The Tartan:
Well, here we go again! In last year's Student 
Government presidential race, we had the old I- 
wish-to-withdraw-in-favor-of-so-and-so trick. This 
year, we have the old Johnny-come-lately trick. 
Even the national Congress can learn a trick or two 
here.
As you should know by now. at last Tuesday's 
meeting, the Student Senate overruled its own elec­
tion procedure, and allowed a fifth presidential can­
didate's name to be added to the ballot. Although I 
admit that decisions need not be a long time in the 
making in order to be valid and worthwhile, I seri­
ously question the motivation behind such an unpre­
cedented late decision. The candidate gave two rea­
sons to the Senate for his tardiness: one that he had 
been approached by some fraternity Senators, and 
asked to run for the presidency; second, that he
was under the impression that a presidential can­
didate had to have one year's experience in the Stu­
dent Senate.
These may seem valid at first glance, but we 
must remember that the four other presidential 
candidates had no trouble in meeting thier respon­
sibilities, as did almost 35 other people who are run­
ning for an office. They did not lack the initiative 
to find out what the qualifications for office were, 
and to turn in their petitions on time.
In reply to the new candidate’s reasons, I can 
only say that ignorance is not excuse, especially in 
such an important matter. Publicity about the elec­
tions started in the Senate almost a month before 
the publicity started on campus. Those Senators had 
more than enough time to consult the Rules Com­
mittee chairman about the presidential qualifica- 
pons.
In addition, the publicity on the campus was 
well in advance, so that any potential candidates 
could have come to a Student Senate meeting and 
get any and all questions answered. Although no Stu­
dent Government laws were broken, I feel that there 
was ample publicity and time for anyone who has 
half-seriously considering running for a Student 
Government position to comply with the election 
procedure.
I think that this singular exception was, although 
legal, a dangerous and quite unethical precedent. I 
feel that any such late candidates should have to run 
as write-in candidates and suffer the consequences 
of their own ineptitude.
Frank J. Puschak 
Chairman, General Campus Committee
English, ’70
No Need For Excitement Over SG Elections
Editor, The Tartan:
Onck again it’s election time and it 
like any other election. Of course, there’s 
no reason to get excited about it because 
the Student Government will remain in the 
hands as last year, and the year before. The 
“After Senate Dinner Club” will once again 
win out, even if the names are changed a 
little, the residual members will uphold the 
traditions that have marked that “society” 
for years. The fact that Student Govern­
ment is the activity of a few is no surprise; 
in fa t, it isn’t even something to get alarm­
ed about.
Read the “campaign promises” from 
this year and they sound pretty much like 
last year’s. The fact is that no real pro­
gress has been made. True, there have 
been little things, but so what? The Student
Government spreads like any bureaucratic 
canger; its cells are creeping further and 
further into the structure of the University 
until eventually it will be engulfted by this 
unusual form of “student activism.” We 
say it’s alive becuase it moves, but this is 
all.
I say again that it is no surprise that 
there is nothing new on the Student Gov­
ernment ballot. After all, this is a small 
school by anyone’s standards and because 
of the professional orientation, students 
just aren’t interested. What of the “dem­
onstrations” one might ask. So what. I 
doubt if there’s one institution of “higher 
learning” that hasn’t had some outburst in 
the last few years. There just aren’t enough 
interested people to keep the juggernaut of 
Student Government on the road.
It matters little who is elected presi­
dent, in fact, the only person who has any 
real effect on the entire student body is the 
director of the Activities Board. He pro­
vides the circuses, we provide the “bread.” 
It little matters who is elected director of 
the Academic Affairs Board because there 
is no academic reform movement that will 
support him. It would appear that those 
people who are running for “key” positions 
are doing so out of habit or ignorance, or 
both. The only possibility of having an ef­
fective Student Government is by having 
carefully elected Senators. At present 
there are too many chiefs and not enough 
Indians. So be it. No one listens to what 
anyone says anyway so why bother? There 
is no way to force such a result. In fact, it 
seems that such a result is largely luck. 
But try they will and to hell with the little
121 University Place
Basement of the PbysWons Building
OPEN: Monday-Friday, 9:00*5:00
682-3731
UWImM YmDTWk 5t/2t
^ TERM PAPERS ^ MANUSCRIPTS 
^ THESES V
XEROX
Yea9.E ,e it2. t ,955.n.PY.N
NOTEBOOKS
(Department Charge Accounts 
and Research Grants WELCOME)
people. What does it matter that profes­
sors who are respected by students and 
colleages alike, are cast aside becuase 
they haven’t published? The University 
will not remember them four years from 
now, and it is useless to fight it. Worse, it’s 
a waste of time, and that’s something one 
may not be able to afford if student defer­
ments are gone.
There is nothing on God’s grey earth 
that will make this place an MIT or a Pratt, 
or even a Pitt. On every level our aspira­
tions are not equal to our means. We are 
nowhere, Pittsburgh, Pa. The football team 
can’t get games because we aren't even in 
a league. Some will say this is good; i say 
that it’s indicative. We are besieged by the 
hobgoblins of little minds, and there is no 
relief in sight. So sit back and enjoy it all, 
because you’re trapped.
Michael Armentrout
GOVERNESS: Live in 5 day week, care of 2 pre-school 
children of working parents, no smoking, references required. 
Call 9-5: 683-1620 Ext. 401.
"IS IT TRUE BLONDES 
HAVE MORE FUN?" - 
Interview with Clairol on 
Thursday, March 12, 
To Find Out.
We're interested in all 
graduating engineers.
Student Tickets for the Opera 
Workshop Production spon­
sored by the Department of 
Music will be available on 
Friday, March 6, 1970 from 
1:30-4:30 p.m. in Room 105, 
Music Office, College of Fine 
Arts.
THE PRODUCTION THIS YEAR 
WILL BE:
"LOVE IS A GAME"'
by Pierre Petit
"THE CLOAK"
by Giacomo Puccini 
Only One (1) Ticket will be issued 
to each Student upon showing Iden­
tification Card.
>
Cu
ct>
1

---------------------------------------------------

Page «—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 10, 1970
I.M. Night--Friday The 13th 
ID Card Ticket To Gala Affair
. Carnegie-Mellon University's 
22nd annual intramural night 
will be held this Friday night in 
Skibo gym. This night has been 
set aside to honor the champions 
of the intramural activities in 
which the students participate 
during the school year.
The program will begin at 
7:00 P.M. with the champion­
ship basketball game between 
the two final teams of the 28 
team major basketball league. 
Four teams are still in the run­
ning for the crown. The win­
ners of the Kappa Sigma - 
Sigma Nu. and Old Men - EJ 
Bruins semi-final games will 
battle for the championship on 
Friday.
At 8:00 P.M.. tropmies will 
be presented to the winners of 
completed intramural activities 
by Harold Herre. President of 
the Intramural Board.
The program will be drawn to 
a close by a basketball game be­
tween the Pittsburgh Steelers 
and the CMU Intramural All- 
Stars. In last year's game, the 
Steelers pulled the game out in 
the closing seconds and won 65- 
64.
The Steelers are coached by 
Bernie Regan of the University 
of Hawaii and average nearly 
245 pounds per man. Players to 
watch are Ben McGee with his 
25-foot set shot. Dick Hoak with 
his shifty dribbling, and Dick 
Ardnt. trying to lift his 280 
pounds off the ground during 
the center jump.
SCRAWNY BEN McGEE, all 6’3” and 265 pounds of him, will 
be at the Skibo gym Friday along with nine Steeler teammates to 
meet the CMU Intramural All-Stars. McGee, from Jackson State, 
was one of the high scorers for the Steelers last year in their 65-64 
win.
PITTSBURGH STEELERS 
BASKETBALL TEAM
NameHgt.WCollege
R. Ardnt6'5"280IdahoB. McGee 6.3" 265Jackson St.
S. Davis62"255AllenA. Russell 6'2" 225Mo.
D. Hoak510"190Penn St.B. Van Dyke6'2" 250Mo.
P. Martha61"190U. of Pgh.L. Voss * 6'33 275Neb.
R. Mansfield6'3 "250Wash.R. Wentzel 6’2" 250San Diego
Coach—Bernard Regan. Univer-
sity of Hawaii.
. .The program is under the dir- There will be no admission 
ection of Earl J. Birdy, Director for CMU students, faculty, em- 
of Intramural Athletics. ployees. and their guests.
TARTANSportS
LARRY BREAN/AL LETZT 
EDITORS
egi-MloMUvMsst- y-oNMiIoXO
22nd Annual INTRAMURAL NIGHT
Friday, March 13
7:00 p.m.-IM championship basketball game
8:00 p.m.-Presentation of trophies
8:30 p.m.-Pittsburgh Steelers vs.
CMU IM All-Star 
basketball game
Admission free to CMU students by ID card
IM REVIEW
Major Leagues 
Hawks League
The three-way tie was resolv­
ed when Oakland “A' edged 
Sigma Nu "A" 34-33 for first 
place. Sigma Nu came back to 
take second with a 29-21 win 
over GSIA.
PLAYOFFS - Quarter Finals
The EJ Bruins jumped out to 
a 35-17 halitime edge and went 
on to beat Oakland “A" 53-42. 
Burner led the Bruins with 14 
points while Apt and Hopkins 
each had 14 for Oakland.
Sigma Nu “A“ upset Beta 
Theta Pi "A" 34-30. Petrosky 
led all scorers with 15 points for 
Beta while Shaffer had 11 for
SN.
A big first half lifted Old 
Men "A" to a 75-45 decision 
over SAE “A". Five Old Men 
scored in double figures with 
Mullips' 14 as the highest scor­
er. Aber scored 14 for SAE.
Kappa Sigma led all the way 
in a 45-29 win over Reggie 
Show. Peretich had 19 and 
Wood 15 for KS. Reggie topped 
his team with 13.
SEMI-Finals
Sigma Nu meets Kappa Sigma 
and the Old Men play the Bru­
ins.
MINOR LEAGUES 
QUARTER - Finals
Beta Sigma Rho edged the 
Old Men “Purple People Eat­
ers" 35-33. and the EJ Bandits 
beat the EJ Conspiracy 35-30. 
Sludge was too much for the 6th 
Floor Bombers, 44-30, and the 
Heads edged Oakland ‘B" 25- 
24.
CEILING W....L
Old Men Lithium No. 6 3 0
Met Knights 2 l
Back Wall W___L
3E ( f 4A 3 0
Faculty Bulldogs 2 l
PLAYOFFS
In the quarter-finals, the Phy­
sics Department beat the Met 
Knights and 3E ‘r 4A beat PKT. 
Other quarter-final games will 
have Old Men Physics playing 
the Faculty Bulldogs and the 
Old Men Lithium No. 6 playing 
ATO.
WATER BASKETBALL
STANDINGS W....L
BTP "A" 3 0
BTP “B” 2 0
SAE l i
PKA 1 2
SN 0 1
ATO 0 1
PKT 0 2
Mosconi League W___L
Eightballs 2 0
Oakland "A" l o
EJ Snookers 1 0
Original Hustlers 0 0
SAE “B" 0 1
BTP “A" 0 1
PKA"A" 0 2
Lassiter League W L
Old Men ‘ Hustlers" 2 0
SAE “A" 2 0
Crackshots 1 0
TDP 1 1
PKA"B" 1 3
ATO 0 1
Oakland “B" 0 2
SWIMMING
Former Penn State star Dick Hoak, the all purpose veteran run­
ning back is another member of the Steeler’s hoop squad. Hoak and 
Paul Martha, the “little Steelers” at 190 lbs., bring the team weight 
average down to 245 lbs.
SEMI FINALSSa
The Heads eliminated Beta 
Sigma Rho 26-23 as Goulding 
scored 10. The EJ Bandits play 
Sludge in the other semi-final.
HANDBALL
FINAL STANDINGS
Front Wall
Old Men Physics "A 
PKT 
Side Wall
Physics Dept.
ATO
..The IM Swimming meet will 
be on Friday, March 13. Teams 
may practice this Tuesday and 
Wednesday from 4:30 to 6:00.
Swimming events:
150 medley relay
50 freestyle
100 individual medley
50 butterfly
100 freestyle
50 backstroke
200 freestyle
200 freestyle relay
W....L
30
21
W....L
30
21
