VOL. 49—No. 14 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., JAN. 10, 1956
Registration
“Head Over Heels 
Organizes Sunday
Scotch and Soda is inviting everyone who is interested in work­
ing on the Spring Cai'nival musical to attend an organizational 
meeting to ask questions, talk, and begin planning for the presenta­
tion of this year’s show, “Head Over Heels.” This get-together will 
be held on Feoruary 5, the first*--------—----------------------------------------------
Sunday in the new semester. It 
£ will start at 1:30 in the afternoon 
and all prospective and interested 
people are wanted—if you are 
thinking of singing, dancing, sell­
ing tickets, using a paintbrush, 
working with costumes, scenery, or 
lights—or if you Just want to find 
out what Scotch and Soda is.
This will be tne first opportu­
nity for the students who will 
work on the show to meet the Ex- 
™ecutive and Administrative Boards 
—the president of the club, the 
technical, production, publicity 
and business managers, the direc­
tors and the designers.
Every Sunday there is a meet­
ing in the Dorm Council room at 
Morewood Gardens to go over old 
and new business and to review 
the material presented for the 
show. Since the show for this 
spring. Heads Over Hells, will be 
^a revue, several people are con- ] 
tributing lyrics and sketches. This ; 
material must be gone over, cut, 
and organized to make the show a 
smooth running unit. Everything 
that is presented must often be 
rewritten several times before it 
is finally accepted by the whole 
group.
The orchestra will be under the 
direction of a general musical di- 
^ rector, who is responsible for the 
• show music, and decisions con­
cerning the musical end of the 
show come from him. In this way, 
th* musical department of the 
show will function as one unit. 
Likewise, each of the other depart­
ments in the show has a head who 
is responsible for coordinatirig his 
particular branch. The heads of 
these, groups work with the direc­
tors and the production head to 
put together the show.
(wAuditions
Two weeks after this meeting, 
auditions for the show will be held, 
and it is hoped that everyone on 
campus who wants to be in the 
show will come out. The cast has 
always been made ,up of engineers, 
secretai’ies, drama students, arch­
itects—the most important thing 
is wanting to work with the group.
Evryone will work the year to 
the end of putting on an intimate, 
bright show—simply and straight­
forwardly presented in an arena 
theater. In the past, the last few 
weeks before the show have al­
ways been hectic—it’s hard work 
and often involves long hours, but 
the fun and satisfaction of watch­
ing the show that you worked on 
put to an audience is worth it. The 
majority of the people who work 
on the show come back again— 
from freshman to senior year. Re- 
^member the date is Sunday, Feb­
ruary 5 at 1:30, and everyone is 
invited. It will be very informal 
and just a chance to talk and 
think about joining the people be­
hind “Head Over Heels.”
Accurate Calendar 
Featured In Last 
Scot Of 1955
By Anton Sequoia
Realizing that those who write 
publication reviews are subject to 
widespread and profuse critic­
ism, Mr. Sequoia has graciously 
provided us with a forwarding 
address where he can be reached 
for comment. He is at present 
gathering information for his 
next book, “Speleology in the 
Arctics,” and can be reached in 
care of the Admiral Byrd Expe­
dition, Antarctica. Those wishing 
to receive immediate replies may 
just as well send directly to: 
Dead Letter Office, Pittsburgh 22, 
Pa.
Again virtually devoid of all 
off-color and risque humor, the 
December Scot has proven to be 
an entirely congruous sequel to 
the November issue, which had 
an especially wide circulation 
among old women and small 
children.
Of course the outstanding fea­
ture of the current issue was the 
1956 Scot Calendar. This is a 
very good calendar, and after me­
ticulous checking, was found to 
be entirely accurate and in 
agreement with over 99% of all 
other 1956 calendars. It could 
not immediately be determined 
what significance was intended 
for the photographs which are 
found adjacent to each month, but 
these can easily be clipped off, if 
so desired.
. Gift Suggestions
Another highlight was the 
Christmas gift suggestions, which 
feature can hardly be accused of 
the criticism mentioned in the 
tContinued on page 8]
Tartan
This insurpassable issue will 
be the only one during the 
month of January due to the 
fact that the administration 
emphatically insisted that the 
TARTAN staff participate in 
finals this year. The next issue 
of the TARTAN will come out 
on February 7, the first Tues­
day of the new semester.
Forum Hears 
Dean Bach
George Leland Bach will be the 
fourth outstanding faculty mem­
ber to speak before Tech faculty 
and students at the AAUP spon­
sored community foruip. Dr. Bach, 
dean of the Industrial Administra­
tion school, v/ill speak on “The 
Economic Outlook: Boom or De­
pression Ahead?” a highly import­
ant topic, especially in this pre­
election period.
A major figure in ths field, Dean 
! Bach is well qualified to speak on 
I the economic issue. Before he 
came to Tech as head of the eco­
nomics department in 1946, he was 
[Continued on page 81
Insurance
The Registrar’s office is still 
holding a large number of in­
surance policies. Students to 
whom these belong should call 
for them as soon as possible.
Student Council 
Members Elected 
For Spring Term
The results of the Student 
Council election held December 20 
were unofficia'ly announced this 
week. Council will confirm the list 
at their meeting Wednesday after­
noon.
The new members from Engi­
neering and Science will be David 
Camp, sophomox-e chemical en­
gineer, Peter Urbach, junior elec­
trical engineer, Luis de la Ma- 
corra, junior mechanical engineer, 
and Bob Waxman, sophomore 
chemical engineer. From printing 
management, sophomore Andy 
Dick was elected, and Dick Oden, 
junior P & D will represent Fine 
Arts. Cissie Rafferty, freshman 
home ec major, was elected from 
Margaret 'vlorrison. No junior sec- 
[Continued on Page 8]
Carnegie’s Dr. J. C. Warner 
Assumes Presidency Of ACS
Dr. John Christian Warner, president of Carnegie Tech and a 
member of the general advisory committee to the Atomic Energy
Commission, took office on Sunday, January 1, as president of the
American Chemical Society, the world’s largest professional asso­
ciation of scientists and engineers. 
Dr. Warner, who succeeds Pro­
fessor Joel H. Hildebrand of the 
University of California, will 
serve for one year as head of the 
society’s 75,000 chemists and 
chemical engineers.
Scientist, teacher and author in 
the fields of physical chemistry, 
electrochemistry and metallurgy. 
Dr. Warner in World War II took 
a leading part in the atomic en­
ergy program. On leave from 
Carnegie Tech, he dii’ected and 
coordinated highly confidential 
research on the purification of 
plutonium at the University of 
Chicago, the University of Cali­
fornia, Iowa State College, the 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology and the Los Alamos (N. 
M.) Scientific Laboratory. Later 
Dr. J. C. Warner he participated in the operation
New Head of ACS [Continued on page 8J
Registration for the spring semester 1956 will be held on 
Monday and Tuesday, January 30 and 31, from 8:30 a.m. until 
4:00 p.m. both days. Students will register according to the fol­
lowing schedule: All students residing in the Pittsburgh district 
will register on Monday, January 30. All others will register on 
Tuesday, January 31. MMCC freshmen will register on Tues­
day, January 31.
Penalty for late registration is $10.00 or the first day; $5.00 
additional for the second day; $1.00 per day thereafter up to 
$20.00 maximum.
The steps to be accomplished are as follows:
1. All students except freshmen in E & S, industrial and 
printing management and MMCC report to department offices 
for approved schedules (four copies for non-veteran students, 
five for veterans).
E & S freshmen, industrial management and printing man­
agement freshmen report to Dean Forstall at south end of Men’s 
gymnasium after completing step two (below).
MMCC freshmen report to Professor McBride, Room 102, 
MMCC.
2. Obtain a fee slip, a registrar’s information card and a 
class card order blank as follows:
E & S, industrial and printing management at south en­
trance of men’s gym.
All Fine Arts students at middle entrance of men’s gym.
All MMCC students at Room 120, MMCC.
3. Fill out all forms you have been given. Enter your student 
number on the registrar’s information card and class card order 
blank. Your number is on your fee slip and on your receipt for 
last semester. If you cannot find it, ask the IBM desk at the top 
of the steps in Thistle Hall.
4. If you have not prepaid, go to fees desk in Thistle Hall 
to have fee entered on fee slip. Those students who have pre­
paid do not stop at fees desk, but proceed to Prepaid desk to 
obtain ID card.
5. If you are a veteran, go to veteran’s desk in Thistle Hall.
6. If you must make special arrangements (loans, etc.) for 
payment of fees, go to Loan desk in Thistle Hall.
7. Proceed to women’s gym to pay fee, dormitory or other 
charges and get a receipt.
All students, whether they have prepaid or not, must appear 
at the registration area to complete schedules and fill out IBM 
forms, but students who have prepaid their fees will not be 
required to go to the Women’s Gym where the cashier is set uo. 
Prepaid students who fail to report to the registration area will 
be subject to the penalty for late registration.
Buddy Morrow Plays 
At CFP’s Big Formal
Personable Buddy Morrow will be leading his great dance orches­
tra from the bandstand of the Syria Mosque for the CFP Formal on 
February 4 from nine until one. Along with Buddy will * be Dr. 
Arthur Jennings, well known educator, as an added attraction.
* Buddy studied at the JuilliardFee Pre-Payment 
Suggested For All 
Eligible Students
To help reduce the amount of 
time spent by students in the reg­
istration area, a plan for pre-pay­
ment of fees will be put into effect 
for the spring semester of_1955- 
56. All students may participate 
except the students who are carry­
ing reduced schedules. (Those 
carrying less than 24 units).
Those students who are not ex­
cluded and who wish to participate 
in the plan will proceed as follows:
At any time during the period 
of January 9 through January 25, 
students may stop at the Regis­
trar’s Office and make their pay­
ments. However, it must be un­
derstood that for dormitory stu­
dents, the dormitory fee must be 
paid at the same time. It also 
should be understood that all stu­
dents, whether participating or 
not, must appear at the registra­
tion area the same as always to 
complete schedules and fill out 
IBM forms, but the students who 
have prepaid their fees will not 
be required to go to the Wom­
en’s Gym where the Cashier will 
be set up.
School of Music in New York 
City. During his studies he was 
heard by Paul Whiteman, who
Fee
A $10.00 graduation fee will 
be payable at registration 
time. This applies to all sen­
iors and those graduate stu­
dents who may be candidates 
for either master or doctor­
ate degrees at the June 1956 
commencement.
Buddy Morrow
Featured at CFP Formal
offered him a job with the band. 
During his eight months stay 
with “Pops”, Buddy was featured 
on the Chesterfield Show. After 
leaving Whiteman, he joined the 
orchestra of the late Eddie Du- 
chin for a short period. After 
leaving Duchin, Buddy was suc­
cessively with the bands of Artie 
Shaw, Vincent Lopez, Tommy 
Dorsey, and Jimmy Dorsey.
Records For RCA
Signing an RCA Victor record­
ing contract in 1950, Buddy 
changed his style to a strictly 
accented ensemble dance beat as 
a background for his trombone. 
The result was the exciting “Rio 
Rita”. Two months and three 
records later, the tremendous re­
sponse to the instrumental “Solo” 
a fox-trot. bolero adaptation of 
Chopin’s Waltz in C# Minor, 
[Continued on page 7J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 10, 1956
Union Information Presented 
By Mr. Porter Butts And Movie
On December 20 a meeting concerning the proposed Student 
Union was held in Room 100 of Porter Hall. Mr. Porter Butts, an 
authority on the subject of student unions, showed the assembled 
group a movie about the University of Wisconsin’s student union, 
which was one of the first in the* 
nation. The movie covered the 
various phases of activity which 
are carried on in a typical stu­
dent union. The purpose of a 
union is to centralize student ac­
tivities and to provide facilities 
which might be lacking.
Tech’s plans call for inclusion 
within the union of the follow­
ing: alumni offices, an enlarged 
bookstore, a dance hall with a ca­
pacity of 600, a food service, vari­
ous game rooms, student and fac­
ulty lounges, a meeting room for 
student organizations, a post office, 
a radio and TV station, religious 
activities rooms, a laundry office, 
a storage room, and offices for stu­
dent publications. A barber shop, 
a beauty shop, and bowling alleys 
have been considered. In addition 
to the above activities areas, the 
union would contain a new cafe­
teria with a capacity of 500, plus 
a coffee shop, a snack bar, and a 
faculty dining room.
Bi?ger Than Donner
Very definite tentative plans as 
to the size, location, and date of 
construction of Tech’s Union 
were revealed. These call for an 
activities’ area of 84,000 square 
feet plus a cafeteria area of 22,- 
000 square feet. (Donner Hall’s 
total area is 66,000 sq. ft.) The 
building would be located on the 
present site of Web Hall. The 
present schedule calls for con­
struction to begin sometime dur­
ing this year and to be finished 
by 1958.
The new Union will supplement 
some extra-curricular activities 
and will also provide others 
which will be entirely new. It 
will give the student a much 
more accessible and better equip­
ped co-recreational area.
Doctors In Moth 
In Huge Demand 
By VS Industry
In an article published re­
cently in the Kansas City Times, 
the fact was brought out that in­
dustry is in great need of math 
graduates with a Ph.D. The arti­
cle claimed that the math Ph.D. 
can ask for and get $8,000 a year 
as a starting salary from indus­
try. This is nearly $1,000 a year 
higher than engineers, chemists, 
and physicists with the same let­
ters after their names can get.
The reasons put forth for this 
high premium on mathematicians 
are as follow: About 15 years 
ago a person who studied mathe­
matics expected to teach it. Dur­
ing the war and after, however, 
the rapid advances in science, and 
especially in jets, guided missiles, 
and atomic physics put the mathe­
matician in very great demand. 
Our universities and colleges have 
not yet responded to this increas­
ed demand and there exists a 
shortage of mathematicians on 
the labor market. The result is 
the usual consequence of the 
law of supply and demand: The 
price industry will pay for a 
Ph.D. in mathematics has been 
bid way up.
The article stated that few 
people, even at the college level, 
were aware of the situation. It 
said that whereas much is said 
of the lack of engineers, little is 
mentioned of the lack of mathe­
maticians. The lack of an ade­
quate number of new competent 
math teachers in our high schools 
was also pointed to as another 
source of worry to the leaders of 
our country. As a result of this 
situation the number of persons 
graduating from our high schools 
with satisfactory math back­
grounds is apparently declining. 
Thus it seems as though we can 
look forward to still fewer mathe­
maticians in the future.
UMOC Contest 
Chooses Boh Levin
Anyone who saw his ID card 
picture will not be surprised to 
know that Bob Levin, Beta Sig 
candidate, is the Ugliest Man on 
Campus. Awarded $32 out of the 
$58 collected, the senior dramat 
had an easy win.
The runners up were the Radio 
Club’s Bill Carr, who placed sec­
ond, and Luis de la Macorra from 
WRCT, third place winner. After 
Bibo, the elections were fairly 
close, each of the remaining con­
testants getting around $5 or $10. 
The penny shortage may have 
been increased during the elec­
tions, for over $20 was collected 
in copper.
All the money collected in the 
contest will go to Campus Chest 
(each vote cost a penny). A Phi O 
would like to thank the contest­
ants and those who voted for aid­
ing in this worth while project.
Virgil Thomson 
Guest Conductor 
At Syria Mosque
One of the outstanding pro­
grams of the current Pittsburgh 
Symphony season will be present­
ed at Syria Mosque Friday eve­
ning, January 13. The first half of 
the program will be conducted by 
the distinguished composer and 
critic, Virgil Thomson, and will 
feature two of his own composi­
tions, Concerto for Flute, with 
Bernard Goldberg soloist, and 
Symphony on a Hymn Tune. He 
will open the program with Henry 
Cowell’s Hymn and Fuguing Tune 
No. 2. All three of these works will 
be receiving their first Pittsburgh 
hearing.
Following the intermission, the 
30 - year - old American pianist, 
Eugene Istomin will play the 
Beethoven Piano Concerto No. 5 
in E-fiat Major (Emperor), with 
Associate Conductor Karl Kritz 
conducting. The concert will close 
with Wagner’s Overture to “Rien- 
zi.”
Next Week
Fernando Previtali, talented 
conductor of Rome’s famous San­
ta Cecelia Orchestra, will guest- 
conduct the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra on Friday night and 
Sunday afternoon, January 20 and 
22 at Syria Mosque. Soloists for 
these concerts will be Theo Salz- 
man, Vienna-born solo ’cellist of 
the Pittsburgh Symphony. For his
6olo appearance at this weekend’s 
concerts he will play Haydn’s 
’Cello Concerto in D Maor.
Previtali will conduct Beethov­
en’s Overture to Egmont, Boc­
cherini’s Symphony No. 16 in D 
Major, Busoni’ Tsurandot Suite 
for Orchestra, The Afternoon of a 
Faun by Debussy, and Verdi’s 
Overture to I Vespri Sicilliani.
Religious Meetings 
Today5 Tomorrow
Westminster Foundation; Dinner 
meeting; 5:00 p.m., January 10, 
1956; Tech students meet in More- 
wood Gardens for transportation 
to Bellefield Presbyterian Church. 
Dr. Arthur Kannwischer, Instruc­
tor of philosophy at University of 
Pittsburgh, will speak on Your 
Faith and Scientific Method. This 
is the first in a series of My 
Faith and My Vocation, geared 
to clarify certain problems and of­
fer some solutions.
Wesley Fellowship Dinner meet­
ing; 6:00 p.m., January 11, i956 
First Methodist Church. Mrs. Eva 
Bronner of Planned Parent Clinic 
will speak on Physical Aspect of 
Marriage.
The Carnegie Technical, the en­
gineering and science publication 
of Carnegie Tech, is nationallly 
known and is one of the four col­
lege technical publications to be 
collected by the Library of Con­
gress.
Another A Phi O 
Service: Book 
Exchange 1956
Next semester Alpha Phi Omega
will again operate the Book Ex­it*change, which is located at the ' 
first stairway to the right in Ad­
ministration Hall. The Book Ex­
change will be open during Reg­
istration, at hours to be posted in 
the gym, and will also be open 
from from 11:30 to 1:30 each day 
of'the first week of classes.
The book exchange is a place’ 
where the students of Carnegie 
Tech may buy and sell used books, 
All books are priced by the seller;
A Phi O Will not price the books.
If the book is sold, the. money may 
be picked up by the seller. A 
charge of five cents is made to cov­
er costs. If the book is not sold, its 
owner may claim it, and no charge 
is made.
Here is your opportunity to 
convert, those no longer used books 
to ready cash. And here too is your 
opportunity to save money by'/) 
buying second hand books.
AMERICAN FLAG
9' x 17'
WOOL
WITH ROPE and SNAP HOOK
$25
MR. LEVY—MA 1-16708316 MELWOOD AVE, PITTSBURGH
George Lincoln asks:
What do 
metallurgists 
do in a 
chemical 
company?
»
CHARLES I. SMITH, JR. received his B.S. Ch.E. 
from V.P.I. in 1943, served in the Navy as an 
engineer officer, and joined Du Pont’s Engineer­
ing Department in 1946. Since then he has ad­
vanced steadily through a number of interesting 
assignments at various Du Pont plants. Today 
Charlie Smith is technical superintendent of 
Du Pont’s Newport, Delaware, Plant, Pigments 
Department.
Metallurgists and Metallurgical Engineers
can find some of Charlie Smith’s challenging 
new problems described in “Engineers at 
Du Pont.” For a free copy of this booklet 
write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
(Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 
98, Delaware.
««. U.S. PAT. Of*
»FTTH THINGS FOt KfTTM LIVING . . . THROUGH CHMKSTtF 
WATCH "DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
GEORGE M. LINCOLN, JR. expects to receive his B.S. in met­
allurgical engineering from Lehigh University in 1957. George 
is active in sports, vice president ot his junior class, and a partici­
pant in many other campus activities. He’s starting his employ­
ment investigations early, for he feels that the selection of an 
employer is one of the most important decisions in a man’s career.
Charlie Smith answers:
They have an almost endless variety of interesting 
problems to face, George. As a student of metallurgy 
you know that about two-thirds of all known chemical 
elements are metals. Many of them are revealing valu­
able new applications, when highly purified on a com­
mercial scale. Du Pont is greatly interested in several 
metallic and semi-metallic elements.
My own experience at Du Pont ranges from work 
on titanium pigments, to metallic titanium production, 
and to the ultra-pure silicon used in transistors. You 
can appreciate some of our metallurgical problems when 
I point out that impurities in transistor silicon have to 
be below one part in 100 million. That’s equivalent to - 
one pound of impurities distributed through a train of 
ore cars twenty miles long!
Some of our metallurgists carry out fundamental 
research on new metals, and, in the development stage, 
they frequently operate pilot plants for producing them. 
Other metallurgists study problems relating to engi­
neering materials used in construction, carry out re­
search on intergranular corrosion, or investigate fatigue 
relationships encountered in dynamic, high-pressure 
operations.
You’ll find many challenging opportunities in every 
phase of metallurgy at Du Pont, George.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, January 19, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
Eleven Techites 
Present At World 
Religious Meeting
Seven students and four advis- 
*ers representing Carnegie Tech 
^have returned from the Ecumen­
ical Student Conference on the 
Christian World Mission, conduct­
ed December 27 through January 
1 on the Ohio University campus 
in Athens, Ohio. International stu­
dents Charmaine DeKretser, Jim­
my Isaac, and Bill Chu; American 
students Peggy Vetter, Carolyn 
Bright, Walt Hentzleman, and Bob 
Shields, along with Miss Ruth 
Shinn, Dr. Mart. E. Foy, Mr. Vin 
^Stratton and Miss Marilyn Miller, 
advisors respectively to the YWCA, 
Wesley Fellowship, Westminster 
Fellowship, and Lutheran Student 
Association, were among the 3,500
representatives from 400 colleges 
and universities in North America.
Discuss Major Issues
The purpose of the conference 
was to discuss the major issues in­
volved in the inexorable revolu­
tion that is taking place on the 
African and Asian continents. The 
part that Christianity must play in 
this revolution if democracy as a 
way of life is to be preseved was 
stressed in the conference, as was 
the changing aspect of the Christ­
ian mission.
Racism, colonialism, conflicts 
between Christianity and the non- 
Christian religions, and the rela­
tionship of the Christian faith to 
areas of rapid social change were 
discussed in the ecumenical at­
mosphere which prevailed at the 
conference. 1275 students from 80 
countries outside the United States 
helped the American students 
focus their attention on certain
On Campuswith 
Max Shulman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With, Cheek,” etc.)
VIVE LE POPCORN!
The other day as I was walking down the street picking up 
tinfoil (Philip Morris, incidentally, has the best tinfoil, which 
is not surprising when you consider that they have the best 
cigarettes, which is not surprising when you consider that they 
buy the best tobaccos and the best paper and put them together 
with skill and loving care and rush them to your tobacco counter, 
fresh and firm and loaded with gentle smoking pleasure to lull 
the palate and beguile the senses and shoo the blues) the other 
day, I say, as I was walking down the street picking up tinfoil 
(I have, incidentally, the second largest ball of tinfoil in our 
family. My brother Eleanor’s is bigger—more-than four miles 
in diameter—but, of course, he is taller than I.) the other day, 
as I was saying, while walking down the street picking up tinfoil, 
I passed a campus and right beside it, a movie theatre which 
specialized in showing foreign films. “Hmmmm,” I said to my­
self, “I wonder how come so many theatres which specialize in 
showing foreign films are located near campuses?”
And the answer came right back to me: “Because foreign 
films are full of culture, art, and esoterica, and where is culture 
more rife, art more rampant, and esoterica more endemic than 
on a campus? Nowhere, that’s where!”
I hope that all of you have been taking advantage of the 
foreign film theatre near your campus. Here you will find no 
simple-minded Hollywood products — full of treacly sentiment 
and machine-made bravura. Here you will find life itself— life 
in all its grimness, its poverty, its naked, raw passion!
Have you, for instance, seen the recent French import, Le 
Jardin de Ma Tante (“The Kneecap”), a savage and uncom­
promising story of a man named Claude Parfui^, whose con­
suming ambition is to get. a job as a meter reader with the 
Paris water department? But he is unable, alas, to afford the 
flashlight one needs for this position. His wife, Bon-Bon, sells 
her hair to a wigmaker and buys him a flashlight. Then, alas, 
Claude discovers that one also requires a leatherette bow tie. 
This time his two young daughters, Caramel and Nougat, sell 
their hair to the wigmaker. So Claude has his leatherette bow-tie, 
but now, alas, his flashlight battery is burned out and the whole 
family, alas, is bald.
Or have you seen the latest Italian masterpiece, La Donna E 
Mobile (“I Ache All Over”), a heart shattering tale of a boy and 
his dog? Malvolio, a Venetian lad of nine, loves his little dog 
with every fibre of his being. He has one great dream: to enter 
the dog in the annual dog show at the Doge’s palace. But that, 
alas, requires an entrance fee, and Malvolio, alas, is penniless. 
However, he saves and scrimps and steals and finally gets enough 
together to enter the dog in the show. The dog, alas, comes in 
twenty-third. Malvolio sells him to a vivisectionist.
Or have you seen the new Japanese triumph, Kibutzi-San 
(“The Radish”), a pulse-stirring historical romance about 
Yamoto, a poor farmer, and his daughter Ethel who are accosted 
by a warlord on their way to market one morning? The warlord 
cuts Yamoto in half with his samurai sword and runs off with 
Ethel. When Yamoto recovers, he seeks out Ethel’s fiance, 
Chutzpah, and together they find the warlord and kill him. But, 
alas, the warlord was also a sorcerer and he has whimsically 
turned Ethel into a whooping crane. But loyal Chutzpah takes 
her home where he feeds her fish heads for twenty years and 
keeps hoping she’ll turn back into a woman. She never does. Alas.
©Max Shulman, 1956
The makers of Philip Morris, who bring you this column, hope 
thul if there’s smoking in the balcony of your campus theatre, it will 
be today's new, gentle Philip Morris you'll be smoking.
world problems which will inevit­
ably affect everybody at Carnegie 
Tech as well as in the rest of the 
world.
Tri Delta Award 
Open To Women
The 1956 Tri Delta General 
Scholarship competition will be 
held January 5 to February 25, 
1956.
Women students in colleges 
where there are Tri Delta chap­
ters are eligible to apply. They 
may or may not be sorority mem­
bers but they should be well-qual­
ified students, showing promise of 
being valuable citizens in their fu­
ture communities. The amount of 
the awards on any one of the 99 
campuses included in the com­
petition will not exceed $200.00.
The Delta Delta Delta awards 
committee shall be the sole judge 
of the respective merits of the 
applicants. The successful candi­
dates will be notified by May 15, 
1956, and scholarships will be for­
warded to them at the beginning 
of the term for which the awards 
are granted. Scholarships may be 
used for the summer session 1956.
Application blanks for Tech stu­
dents are available at the office of 
the Dean of Women, AH-148.
Carnegie Visited 
By Distinguished 
Musician, Critic
The Carnegie College of Fine 
Arts will present Virgil Thom­
son, the distinguished composer, 
conductor, and music critic, in a 
lecture on The State of Modern 
Music at Mid-Century in the Car­
negie Theater, Tuesday, January 
10, at 11:30 a.m. Mr. Thomson 
was formerly music editor of the 
New York Herald-Tribune and 
will be guest conductor with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
on Friday, January 13.
A student-faculty recital of 
Virgil Thomson’s works \vill be 
presented on Tuesday evening, 
January 10, at 8:30 p.m. in the 
Exhibition Hall, College of Fine 
Arts. Tickets for the performance 
are available in the music depart­
ment office, FA 159. The program 
includes:
Five Phrases from the Song of 
Solomon (1953) with percus­
sion obligato
Juanita Woods, soprano 
Rodger Ryan, percussion
The Divine Image (1951) .........
...............text by William Blake
The Little Black Boy (1951) ..
...............text by William Blake
Earl Corwin, bass 
Gloria Hieger, piano
Preciosilla (1948)..........................
...............text by Gertrude Stein
Modern Music 
Concert Here
The International Society for 
Contemporary Music, Pittsburgh 
Chapter, in conjunction with the 
Carnegie department of music, 
will present the nineteenth in a 
series of programs of contempor­
ary music featuring Vronsky and 
Babin, duo-pianists, assisted by 
Eugene Phillips, violin, and Eu­
gene Eicher, cello, on Thursday, 
January 12 at 8:30 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Tebh Little Theater. A 
short forum discussion will fol­
low the program which will fea­
ture the works of Stravinsky, 
Poulenc and Victor Babin. Tickets 
may be obtained from the music 
department office, FA 159. The 
program:
Concerto per due pianoforti
soli (1935) ...............Stravinsky
L’Embarquement pour Cy-
there (1951) ..................Poulenc
Sonata, a quatre mains
1918) ................................ Poulenc
Trio for Violin, ’Cello and 
Piano ........................Victor Babin
Sarah Cupelli, soprano 
Edmund Ladouceur, piano
String Quartet No. 2
Goesta Andreasson, violin 
Martin Stearns, violin 
Philip Laspina, viola 
Eugene Eicher, cello
A Campus-to-Career Case History
“One open door after another”
“That’s how I feel about the telephone 
company,” says Walter D. Walker, 
B.E.E., University of Minnesota, ’51. 
“When I joined the company I felt that 
I could go in any direction. And that’s 
the way it’s been.
“For the first six months I was given 
on-the-job training in the fundamentals 
of the telephone business —how lines are 
put up and equipment installed. Learn­
ing those fundamentals has really paid 
off for me.
“Then I had the opportunity to go to 
the Bell Laboratories in New Jersey. 
I worked on memory crystals —ferro­
electric crystals—for use in digital com­
puters. I learned how important research 
is to the telephone business.
“After two years I came back to Min­
nesota, to St. Cloud, to work in the
District Plant Engineer’s Office. There 
I made field studies of proposed con­
struction projects and drew up plans to 
guide the construction crews. This com­
bination of inside and outside work 
gave me invaluable experience.
“In July, 1955,1 came to Minneapolis 
as an Engineer in the Exchange Plant 
Extension Engineer’s Office. We do fore­
casting—not of the weather, but of fu­
ture service needs. Using estimates of 
growth and economic studies, we make 
our plans for the years ahead. We fig­
ure out where and when new facilities 
will be needed to meet future growth.
“All this has been preparing me for 
a real future. You see, the telephone 
company is expanding by leaps and 
bounds. That’s why it offers a young 
man so many open doors.”
Wally Walker's career is with Northwestern Bell 
Telephone Company. Similar career opportunities 
exist in other Bell Telephone Companies, and in 
Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and 
Samlia Corporation. Your placement officer has 
more information regarding Bell System companies.
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 10, 1956
Editorial—
Harmony Through 
Desegrega tion
vs.*.
Several months ago, in this hallowed 
corner of the paper, we presented a problem 
which is still a problem, and therefore, in 
this same corner another appeal appears. The 
problem is how to achieve some degree of 
integration among the students of the three 
colleges on campus. We suggested that some­
thing could be done toward this through the 
curriculum, specifically through the social 
relations courses. Possibly the theory behind 
this editorial is to stimulate more student 
and administration discussion of this prob­
lem, possibly it is to drum vigorously until 
we see the occurrence of some constructive 
action, possibly it is to express our own in­
dividual prejudices, or possibly it is just to 
create something to fill this space. But it 
seems that many people who take an inter­
est in Carnegie Tech (not to be confused 
with students) are wondering why this segre­
gation between schools still exists.
At the risk of repeating what was said in 
the October 4 issue, which no doubt remains 
vividly impressed in everyone’s mind, some 
of the most common arguments for and against the idea of 
combining soc rel courses follow. The most common argu­
ment for integration is that classes would be made more in­
teresting to all concerned. A class composed of students 
with a variety of courses should provide the basic material 
for a discussion much more interesting than most of those 
which are carried on in the present state of affairs, where 
the long-suffering instructor has to persistently try to pry 
discussion out of a cold bunch of silent engineers, P & D s, 
or home ecs, who all know each other, who all have prac­
tically common interests and ideas, and who are relatively 
bored with the course, whatever it may be. The existence 
of a little variety should stimulate at least a little more 
thought and discussion.
The type of course in mind here is the required soc rel 
course. Great progress has been made already in unifying 
the senior electives, because these courses were practically 
identical in all schools, and by unifying them, the necessity 
of teaching the same course more than once was eliminated. 
Thus progress has started from the top down, but now has 
reached the point where further action will meet the same 
problems whether the difficulty is attacked from the upper- 
class level downward, or from the bottom up.
Aside from scheduling difficulties which would result, 
the chief problem is the content of the courses. Emphasis is 
on different aspects when a subject such as History of West­
ern Civilization is taught to each separate group. This has 
been so for many years, and compromising will have to be 
undertaken before the differences in requirements can be 
worked out sufficiently so that this will not be a hindrance.
There are committees from each school which meet 
periodically to determine the course requirements. We hope 
that they will continue to consider altering these require 
ments so that we may be able to have mixed social rela­
tions classes. This program should also promote a bit of 
understanding between the colleges, something which exists 
now in a quantity so minute that it defies perception
A BETTER mixed drink
PRODUCES A BETTERRESULT.
Mitw-ii-Chiei ...............................................................................................................Robert Russel]
Buincn Manager ................................................................................................................Vic Shiry
News Editor ..........................................................................................................................Margo King
Kperts Editor............................................................. .......................................................Tom Wright
Copy Editor ..................................................................................................................... Richard Fox
fMlitH Editor.......................................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business Manager—Marty Ostroff. Advertising Manager—Bob Serkin. 
Cirealation Manager—Harley Bernbach.
Reporters—Evelyn Alessio, Anne Mehler, Pat Michell, Arthur Marino, Kay 
Melenyzer, Lois Griffin, Sally Day, Barbara Hoenstine, Janet Buvinger, Ann Forest, 
Joan Coprich. Jo Todes, En Harriet Chang, Bob Smith, Bud Palmer, George Bangs, 
Anna Hatsfeld. Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn, Marlene Daehnert, Susie Stryker, 
A1 Federowicz, Gene Anderson, Bob Jack, Joe Batson. Features Staff—Joe Szewc, 
Luis DeLa Macorra, Ron MacFarlane. Sports Staff—James Lacey, Dick Swaney, 
Gerald Pittler, Bob Hoppe. Photographers—-John Russell, Phil Rathke, Stan Zawa- 
dowicz. Art Staff—Ron Fritts, Mike Barkman, Dave Stea. Copy Staff—Ed Rogers,
BID Mowry, Wade Biggs, Ed Holsten. Office Staff—Carol Millsom, Anne Barnes,
Mary Langdon, Ruth Knott. Copy Banners—Jim Kelly, Vic Oburg. Cirealation 
Staff—Ira Levine, Jerry Kreuzer, Robert Peters. Advertising Staff—Herbert 
Kretndler. Alan Hodel. Myron Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.
Entered aa second class matter on OcwDer 4, 1907, at tho Post Office at
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 192S.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Ine. College 
publishers representative. 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.19
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Yours truly has taken up the very ungentle art 
of skiing. I say ungentle because I ached in places
I never knew I had places. It’s a toygh but en­
joyable sport. Outfitted in the latest of college ski 
fashions (Tech sweat shirts and khakis) I was 
surprised to meet a number of Tech students and 
alums at Seven Springs over a recent weekend. 
Which leads to the question, why doesn’t Tech have 
a skiing club?
The University of Pittsburgh and other colleges 
around the country have formed such organizations 
and receive cut rate prices at ski lodges for plan­
ned outings. I understand a group of students are 
planning a winter sports weekend over semester 
vacation, and I’m quite sure if someone interested 
in forming a ski club would take a poll of this 
group, he would find many students interested in 
such an organization.
* * *
Little Quickies: 1 think the pep band, for the 
basketball games is a great innovation. They cer­
tainly add to the color of the game . . *Congratu­
lations to Ed Karcher for receiving the Buddy 
Overend award, The Varsity Clan award, and the 
Joe Pash memorial trophy ... A certain fraternity 
has paid the school a small portion of the bill for 
cleaning the campus after the W&J raid. They felt 
part of the damage done was their responsibility 
since they instigated the initial raid*. . . Look for 
Jim Crawford’s new radio shotd over WRCT in 
the second semester. The name of the show is 
Auditor.
* * *
A new men’s magazine is being hailed and wel­
comed by various students on campus. Not a col­
lege publication, many people feel that Playboy, 
a mag dealing with sophisticated sex and pin-ups, 
will soon outsell Esquire, annual favorite of the 
clothes mad male. Dealing very little in fashions 
and clothing trends, Playboy appeals to that type 
of American made who loves pictures of chesty 
females and ribald jokes. (What American male 
doesn’t?) The magazine’s a perfect gift for the 
guy with the prim and proper girl friend.* * *
Finals are here, the midnight oil is being burn­
ed, and the water is cold in Donner Hall. Seems 
something has also gone wrong with the heating 
system. Not to mention little things such as smoke 
bombs being planted in rooms, bridge games run­
ning rampant, and old Christmas trees turning up 
in people’s beds. Either everyone’s so sick of term 
papers and last minute lab reports they’re tossing 
in the towel, or the school has suddenly let up on 
the amount of nightwork needed to pass a course. 
The reason is probably the former and certainly 
not the latter.
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra
Reading through a current newspaper I came 
upon an article dealing with the growing fame of 
McKeesport’s woman bullfighter. She is Betty 
Dingeldein, better known as Bette Ford. This 
article brought to my mind one sunny Sunday 
afternoon. The hour—four o’clock in the after­
noon. The place—Mexico’s bullfighting ring, “Plaza 
Mexico.” From the program we could see that
Vieiving 
The Administration
By Peter Urbach and John Saxe
This is the second of a series of articles to ap­
pear periodically in the TARTAN. The purpose of 
this series is to clarify the administration’s point 
of view on important school problems. In succeed­
ing columns we will discuss similar questions sub­
mitted by students to the authors.
Attitude on Varsity Sports
For our second question, this week we have 
asked the administration if it is satisfied with the 
present emphasis placed on varsity sports and 
whether there are any plans pending to change 
the present setup.
Tech’s athletic policy is determined by a board 
consisting of Dr. Warner, Mel Cratsley, director of 
athletics, alumni, and some members of the board 
of trustees. Our present varsity program seems to 
be satisfactory to the athletic board as well as the 
administration and there are no immediate plans 
to change the program as it now stands.
This year, as in the past, the only scholarships 
given for varsity athletics were the Steffen schol­
arships, which amount to full tuition scholarships 
for outstanding football players. In 1940, under 
President Dougherty, Carnegie Tech gave up sub­
sidizing entire teams and began the much more 
limited Steffen scholarships. 1936 was the year we. 
beat Notre Dame and 1939 was the year of the big 
Sugar Bowl team. Teams like those of these two 
big years will probably not be seen again and that 
is the way the administration feels it should be. 
One administrative official feels that varsity ath­
letics play a minor part in the institution and that 
the football team might be compared to a single 
section taking a particular course, since in both 
cases only 40 individuals are closely concerned. The 
primary concern of the administration is making 
Tech a top notch technical school. In this light, who 
we play or what we do on the field is not particu­
larly important.
There can be no doubt that the course the ad­
ministration has chosen to pursue is a wise one and 
that it is the right one for Carnegie Tech. One ques­
tion however, remains without an satisfactory an­
swer. Why, we ask, doesn’t Tech take advantage 
of the publicity offered by Pittsburgh and out of 
town papers who would like to do writeups on how 
we do on the athletic field? Would an announce­
ment about the results of a Tech game in an out 
of town taper paper antagonize an alumnus or 
would he enjoy reading about his Alma Mater? It 
seems that the only time a news item giving the 
results of a Tech game appears in an out of town 
paper is when the opposing team puts it there. At 
present Tech has a salaried student, paid by the 
public relations office, to write publicity releases 
about Carnegie Tech’s sports. It would seem to 
the writers of this column that a volunteer student 
group organized on an extra-curricular basis would 
offer a more complete coverage at no cost to the 
school. The saving could then be directed towards 
making Tech a better technical school in keeping 
with the administration’s policies.
tit
this was going to be an all woman bullfight. The 
doors to the ring were opened, a bugle called, the 
band played a Spanish march, and there in front 
of us were standing the two greatest woman bull­
fighters, Bette Ford and Juanita Aparicio.
At a given signal, the two started to walk into 
the ring, each accompanied by her own ‘cuadrilla’ 
or helpers. The fight bad started. Here it was 
going to be decided who was really the best woman 
bullfighter. Acting as judges were the American 
and Mexican representatives of the press, includ­
ing of course, the main deciding factor: the public.
The fight lasted a full two and a half hours. 
At the end; the public was split with a majority 
for Juanita, the Mexican press was divided in half, 
and the American press was for Judnita. It was 
agreed Juanita had won. But the fight did not end 
right then and there. The fight continued and will 
continue until one of the girls retires. Then it will 
be up to history to decide who was really the 
greatest woman bullfighter of our times.
* * * *
Some people have asked me what ig the exact 
translation of the name that I have given to this 
column. Although the idea that I had in mind 
when I started writing ‘Notas de un Oyente* was 
to let everyone figure out his own special trans­
lation. I think that maybe a literary translation 
is due. Well, ‘Notas de un Oyente’ means ‘Notes 
of a Listener’ or better yet, ‘Notes of one who lis­
tens.’ But an exact translation of the full mean­
ing behind the title of my column is completely 
impossible to express. Nevertheless, I hope that 
with the idea presented above you will be able 
to understand more fully the feeling that I tried 
to put behind my title.
So for the present time let me just say hasta 
la vista and buena sueite.

---------------------------------------------------

I
*Tuesday, January 10, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—P*?i $
Ski bos Win; Then Lose Two
Tech—69 Penn State—62 ? *--------------------------------------------
The Tech Hoopsters played three games on their first week back 
from the holidays. However, they still came out on the short end 
of the series, winning one while dropping the other two.
0 The Tartans started off the week with an impressive 69-62 win
over Penn State at State. The ?------------------------------------------------——
Techites went into the game as
underdogs, but sheer determina­
tion and accurate shooting pulled 
the game out of ¿he fire in the 
closing minutes.
Penn State took an early lead 
in the opening minutes and once 
held the Tartans by the score of 
*20-8. But the sharp shooting Tar­
tans were unrelenting, and their 
t^rp shooting put them ahead 
at halftime 35-29.
Early in the second half the 
Penn Staters regained the lead at 
53-51, and they further stretched 
jt to 59-54.
The dogged Tartans would 
never say die, and in the final 
quarter they captured the lead at 
62-61 and were never to relin­
quish it until the final buzzer.
Tech hit for 48 percent of its 
stets while Penn State only man- 
¡^d to hit 33 percent. Bob Hof- 
man was high for both teams with 
20 points. Tech had a well bal­
anced offense with four men hit­
ting the double figures.
PENN STATE I CARNEGIE TECH
Bailey
Leisher
MarisaRamsey
HallHofman
Fields
F P|
2 41 Fieler, f
4 81 Boyd
1 5j Frank 
C 6| Mocker
1 5|Nathanson
2 20) Sobolewski 
2 14|Ficery
) Tucci
G F P 
7 4 18]
2 5 114 10 18
12 4
5 0 1010 2 
7 2 1610 2
24 12 621 24 21 69
Indiana—78 Tech—72
Indiana State Teachers shook 
©ff a dogged Carnegie Tech team 
in the last half and then handed 
the Pittsburgh quintet a 78-72 
defeat before 1,500 fans.
The two teams battled through 
the first half with the score'"being 
tied four times until the Indians 
pulled away for a 41-36 advant- 
aft at halftime. Then the Tar­
tans came back in the second half 
to tie the count again after eight 
minutes of play at 63-63.
But from that point on it was
all Indiana.
Center Mike Farah racked up 
20 points for the winners, six of 
them pn free th ows. Dick Fieler 
and Allen Frank, forward and 
center respectively, each scored 
18 points for the losers.S
he victory was the fourth 
inst three losses for Indiana, 
and was the seventh loss against 
two wins for Tech, which only 
recently defeated Penn State’s 
Lions.
CARNEGIE TECH | INDIANA
G F P| G F P
Feller, f 7 4 18| Laughlin, f 4 4 12
Boyd, f 6 3 15|Crossan, f 5 7 17
Frank, c 8 2 181 Farah, c 7 6 20
Mocker, g 2 0 6| Cavalero, g 6 0 12
Nathanson.g 4 3 11| M’Cracken, g 1 1 3
Sobolewski,g 1 0 2|DeLise, g 15 7
Ficery, g 1 0 2| Kimbr’ugh, f 1 1 3
gu | Persuitte, c 1 2 4
Totals 30 12 721 Totals 26 26 78
Bucknell—65 Tech—60
The Tartans scored often 
enough from the field Saturday 
night to win an average basket­
ball game but the Tartans fell 
short at the charity line and 
thereby dropped their eighth 
game.
A crowd of about 800 saw the 
Tartans outscore the Bucknell 
Bjgpns from the field, 26 goals to 
2^But the visitors dropped in 21 
charity tosses out of 26 while 
the Tech hoopsters sank only 
eight out of 22 tries.
Tech never regained the small 
lead they held in the opening 
minutes. However, the game was 
very close and this kept the Tar­
tans hopping, hoping to regain 
the lead.
Alan Frank dropped in a field 
just as the first half ended 
toTnake the score 25-25 at the
Schedule
"Tankers”
January 14—Westminster . .Home 
February 3—Kent State ... .Away
February 4—Penn..................Away
February 8—Allegheny ... .Home 
“Hoopsters”
Jamiary 11—West Virginia Home
Jaftary 14—W & J.............Away
January 27—Thiel..................Away
February 1—Pitt....................Away
February 4—Dickinsom .... Away 
February 8—Duquesne .... .Home
Mocker scores as Boyd watches. 
Tech lost to Bucknell, 65-60.
intermission. The best the Tar­
tans could accomplish in the final
half was to tie up the tally.
Ralph Mocker who finished the 
evening as the high point maker 
with 18, dropped in six of eight 
field goals in the final period and 
managed to keep Tech in the 
game.
Dick Fieler dropped in three 
consecutive field goals early in 
the second half to tie it up at 44- 
44, but the Bisons pulled away 
and never allowed Carnegie to 
catch up.
Harry Rupert tried to catch up 
for the Tartans, but Bucknell al­
ways countered and managed to 
hold a five-point spread in the 
closing minutes.
Bucknell’s high point man was 
Marty Tannebaum with 15, five 
of his field goals coming in the 
second half and keeping the Tar­
tans at a distance.
CARNEGIE TECH | BUCKNELL PI8'Voorhees, fFieler, f 
Mocker, f 
Ficery, c 
Rupert, f Frank,
Sobolewski,c 0 
Boyd, g 3 
Nathanson,g 4 
Tucci, g 0 
Knapp, g 2
G 02 18| Beatty, f 2
0 0|Tannenb’m,f 6
1 3|Weider, f 2
0 8| Biedelman, c 2
0 0|Kenzie, g 3 
5 11| Baccelli, g 2 
0 8;Stizzì, g 3
0 0|Slavitt, g 2 
0 4|3ainkwicz, g 0
I Corrigan, g 0
Tech Fish Have Second Win
The unsung tankmen of Car­
negie Tech are busy reaping the 
rewards of the many hours of 
diligent practice that they have 
put in since the last of October.
This last Saturday, the tankmen 
traveled to West Virginia, only to 
return with the second win of the 
season under their belt and also 
boasting the fact that they have 
established two new pool records. 
The first record was set by Mike 
Litch in the 50 yard dash with a 
time of 25.1 seconds. The second 
record was set by Dave Harring­
ton in the 200 yard individual 
medley. This is the first time that 
this event has ever been held in 
the West Virginia pool and so it 
is understandable that since Dave 
won the event he would also es­
tablish a pool record. His time in 
this event was 2 minutes 40.1 sec­
onds.
Coach Sofield’s boys, who turn­
ed in a record of nine wins against 
three losses in the 1954-1955 sea­
son, appear to be more powerful 
this year than the last. Thus far 
the record looks very promising 
with two straight victories on the 
board.
Totals 26 8 60|
Score at half-time-
F P 0 0
1 5 
3 15
2 6
1 5
2 8 
2 6
1 X5 ketball, Rodney “Hot-Rod” Hund-
2 2 | iey# “Hot-Rod” is that rare mix­
ture of form and co-ordination
25.
Totals 22 21 65 
-Tech 25, Bucknell
West Virginia’s veritable three 
ring circus comes to town Wed­
nesday night in the 6 foot 4 inch 
form of the clown prince of bas-
of
completely saturated by confi­
dence and ability that is found 
only once. He is a combination of 
a Goose Tatum and Bob Cousy 
disguised as a shy college student 
and acting like Houdini.
This year’s team is captained by 
senior Dave Shuck, who has let­
tered for two years. Dave swims 
both the 220 and 440 freestyle. 
However, he is really having a 
fight on his hands to keep the 
starting position because of his 
youngest brother. Dave has two 
brothers on the team: brother
Frank, who lettered last year as 
a freshman in the 220 yard back 
stroke, and brother Bob, a fresh­
man, who is vieing for a starting 
berth on the squad.
The next meet will match Tech 
against Westminster on Saturday, 
January 14, in the Tech pool, and 
the Tartan Tankmen are hoping 
to mark up their third straight 
victory.
300-yard medley relay—Carnegie Tech 
(Long Derringer, Chamay). Time — 
3:23.4.
220-yard free style—Won by B. Shuck 
(T>; 2-D. Shuck (T); 3-Atchison iW).
Time—2:40.1.
50-yard free style—Won by Litch (T); 
2—Cavanaugh (Wi; 3—Goldman (T). 
Time—:25.1 ipool lecord).
200-yard individual medley—Won by 
Harrington (T); 2—Shipley <T); 3—¦
Swank (W). Time—2:40.1 (pool record).
Diving-—Won by Routa (Wl; 2—H;4- 
ley <W); 3—Goughnour (T). Points —
145 2.100-yard free style—Won by Litch (T); 
2—Chamay (T); 3—Cavanaugh (W>. Time 
—:57.9.200-yard backstroke—Won by •_ ong 
(T); 2—Hilles (T); 3—Combs (W). **ie 
—2:45.4.440-yard free style—Won by D. Si< -ck 
(T); 2—Engleman (T>; 3—Atchison ¡V). 
Time—6:05.7.
200-yard breast stroke—Won by der­
ringer (T); 2—Schiulli (T); 3—Callignan 
(Wi. Time—2:52.9.400-yard relay—Carnegie Tech i Gold­
man, Harrington, B. Shuck, Chamay. 
Time—4:07.2.
Now Available For First Time
OFFICIAL CAMERON TARTAN JACKET 
OF CARNEGIE TECH ALUMNI 
AND STUDENT BODY
By special arrangement with Richman 
Brothers, outstanding clothes makers, 
with stores from Coast to Coast,
you can now buy an official Carnegie Tech Cameron 
Tartan Jacket, made to your individual measurements, 
at any one of Richman Brothers’ 92 stores in the United 
States.
These jackets are made exclusively for Carnegie Tech 
alumni and undergraduates, and purchasers must iden­
tify themselves as such before orders will be accepted. 
If there is no Richman store in your city or nearby, 
write to John L. Elliott, Executive Secretary, Alumni 
Federation, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh
13, Pa. A self-measuring order blank will be sent to 
you, and the jacket will be tailored to your measure­
ments and mailed to your home.
The jackets are made of finest quality imported Scot­
tish all-wool fabrics, smartly styled and carefully tailor­
ed . . . price $37.50.
THE ALUMNE FEDERATION 
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
PITTSBURGH 13. PA.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 10, 1#5«
Intramural Roundup
Basketball
The intramural basketball season started Monday, January 9, with 
the most teams in the history of CIT participating- in one season. 
The 42 teams signed up are divided into six seven team leagues. 
Last year’s champs, the Rockets, are back to defend their title but
can expect a lot of trouble from>--------------------------------------------------—
the many other powerful aggrega­
tions entered this year. Due to 
the large number of entries it 
will be some time before the fav­
orites are known.
A rule change has been made 
this year. The new rule states 
that “All teams must provide one 
official for the game in which 
they are to play.” However, any­
one interested in officiating bas­
ketball games should see Mr. 
Birdy in Room 104 of the Gym. 
Basketball schedules can be ob­
tained in the I.M. office.
Basketball Clinic
A basketball clinic will be held 
by the intramural department for 
officials, players, and coaches of 
the I.M. teams at 4:30 on Thurs­
day, January 12, in the girls’ gym.
Water Polo 
The finals in water polo will 
be Friday, January 13, at 7:30 
with ATO “A” meeting against 
the winner between DTD and SN.
Bowling 
As the bowling season passes 
the midpoint ATO and DTD lead 
in their respective leagues. Both 
teams are undefeated and look 
like good bets to meet for the 
championship.
Standings 
Strikes League
Foreign Study
Opportunities for foreign study 
in seventeen countries are listed 
in Foreign Study Grants, 1956- 
57, a pamphlet published Sunday, 
January 8, by the Institute of In­
ternational Education, 1 East 67th 
Street, New York City.
Fellowships at the University of 
Ceylon and the Free University of 
Berlin, scholarships for summer 
study in Austria and England, 
study awards for artists, musicians 
and active labor union members 
are described in the 20-page book­
let. Other awards administered by 
the Institute are also listed. These 
have been offered by universities, 
pi'ivate groups and governments 
in Europe, the Middle East, Asia 
and Latin America. More detailed
information on these grants is 
available from the Institute in 
New York or from its regional of­
fices in Chicago, Denver, Houston, 
Los Angeles, San Francisco and 
Washington.
Earliest deadline for applica­
tions is January 1 for the two 
awards at the University of Cey­
lon and for one award for advanc­
ed study in Brazil. February 1 is 
the closing date for the French 
awards and for the art and music 
fellowships offered by the Woolley 
Foundation. Closing dates of other 
competitions are in February, 
March, April and May.
A private donor will give six 
grants for study in Spain. Other 
countries in which awards are 
available are Austria, Brazil, Cey­
lon, Cuba, Denmark, Great Britain, 
France, Germany, Iran, Israel, 
Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden 
and Switzerland.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Points12
9
ATO .......................9-0
SN “A” ....................6-3
SAE .........................6-3 8
TX ...........................3-6 4
KS ...........................2-7 2
Citcom ....................1-8 1.
Spares League
DTD .......................6-0 8
TDP .......................6-3 8
PK ...........................5-1 7
SN “B” ..................4-2 2
BSR .........................3-6 4
Grad PM ................2-7 3
PKA .......................1-8 1
High Game (Individual)
Caffee ATO ............................240
Alexander ATO .....................210
Marik SN “A” .......................207
High Series (Individual)
Alexander ATO ...................527 j
Marik SN “A” .......................500
Parker DTD ..........................479
Average (5 games or moré)
Alexander ATO .....................164
Marik SN “A” ....................162
Parker DTD .............................159
Caffee ATO ............................158
Call Pool 
There are 15 call pool teams 
participating this year with last 
year’s champs, Obelisks, leading
the list. The Obelisks expect a 
great deal of trouble from SN. I 
BSR, and PKA this year and will 
be hard pressed to repeat last 
year’s performance.
Call pool schedules and rules
are available in Room 104 of the 
Gym. All winning teams are re­
quested to turn in the scores to 
the I.M. office as soon as possible 
after each match.
Earn Your Master’s Degree
Plan N ow for an 
Executive Career 
in Retailing
A one-year executive development 
program open to all A.B. and 
B.S. degree graduates with good 
undergraduate record*. Curricu­
lum includes executive direction 
in outstanding department stores 
in six major East and Midwest 
cities (with pay. minimum $430). 
You earn your Master's Degree 
at the same time. Co-ed. Schol­
arships. G.I. approved. Gradu­
ates are selectively 
placed before grad­
uation. Next class 
begins Sept. 4, 195«. 
Apply now. Write., 
for BULLETIN “C.”
SCHOOL OF 
RETAILING
UNIVERSITY OF 
PITTSBURGH
Pittsburgh 1 3, Pa.
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: 
WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAP YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-0242 or AL 1-S200
VOLLEYBALL ALL-STAR TEAM
Dick Major Is Volleyball MVP
Dick Major was voted volley- 
ball’s most valuable player this 
year by the members of the I.M. 
Board and Manager’s Club. Major 
was co-captain of the ATO team 
which won this year’s volleyball 
championship, and was a big point 
getter for the past two seasons.
Dick is a senior math major par­
ticipating in his last year of in­
tramural sports for ATO. He has 
already made a fine showing this 
year by being picked on both the 
football and volleyball all star 
teams.
Besides Major, the all star vol­
leyball team consists of ‘Norm 
Rugheimer, the star spiker for the 
runner-up Grad Mesons; I^)n sa m 
ton, a senior member of the KS 
team; Chuck Rees, a junior with 
the SAE team; and two PK’s, Joe 
Szewc, a. senior and Joe Visconti, 
a junior.
All six members of the £ll star 
team were from teams that had 
made play-off berths, and only 
two, Rees and Visconti, will be 
back to lead their respective teams 
next year. ___________________^
What young people are doing at General Electr
Young scientist 
works on new w 
to improve metals
Today scientists and engineers face one of 
the toughest barriers of all — the ‘’metal 
barrier.” Modern technology has progressed 
so rapidly that today’s metals can’t meet the 
tremendous demands placed upon them. For 
such fields as aviation, electronics, atomic 
energy, present metals must be improved and 
new kinds of materials must be developed.
One of the young men playing a role in 
this new and important field is 30-year-old 
Dr. Roland P. Carreker, Jr.
Carreker’s Work Interesting, Vital
As a research associate in the General Elec­
tric Research Laboratory’s Metals and 
Ceramics facility, Carreker’s chief concern 
is the improvement of metals through new 
processing techniques.
In his work, Dr. Carreker has dealt with 
such important metallurgical problems as 
metal failure in high-speed turbine rotors, 
determining the strength of pure metals 
from —425°F, the temperature of liquid 
hydrogen, to 2,800°F and economic studies 
of new metallurgical processes.
25,000 College Graduates at General Electric
When Carreker came to General Electric in 
1947, he already knew the work he wanted 
to do. Like each of our 25,000 college- 
graduate employees, he is given a chance to 
grow and realize his full potential. For Gen­
eral Electric has long believed this: When 
fresh young minds are given freedom to 
make progress, everybody benefits — the in­
dividual, the company, and the country.
Educational Relations, General Electric 
Company, Schenectady 5, N. Y.
/

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, January 10, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—P&ge 7
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ............................................................................ Dolores Neff
Reporters . ....................... John Van Holt, Jr., Emily Muhic
Sigma Delta Phi 
Pre-Christmas 
arty A Success
Did you ever see a White Ele­
phant jump? Well, one sure did 
the evening of December 17. 
We’re speaking of the White 
Elephant club in McKeesport and 
the people who made such a live­
ly crowd was Sigma Delta Phi. 
This was their annual Christmas 
party.
t.t’o start of the evening, dinners 
were served of either chicken or 
steak, and who do we find busy 
eating the chicken but—Jim and 
Rose Marie Soltis, George Riffle 
and Marie Donnelly, Ray Schwaln 
and! Georgette Davis, Matt and 
Lorraine Bertovich, Harry and 
Charlotte Thorn, Lester and Betty 
Blaho, George and Eileen Bogo- 
vich, Byron and Mary May, Jim 
and Betty Flaherty, Andy Spisak 
a$| his guests. We may be mis­
taken, but the only steak eaters 
we could see were Ralph Czer- 
nak and Dolores Neff.
One of the fun spots of the
Initiation Held 
For Phi Gamma Pi 
Autumn Pledges
On Sunday, December 11, 1955, 
Phi (lamma Pi Sorority held an 
initiation tea at Carnegie Union. 
Pledge Mistress Emily Muhic, 
having heard each girl recite the 
pledge, accepted the following 
girls as Phi Gamma Pi members: 
Mrs! Dorothy Lawman, Mary Alice 
Chilleo, Frances Dubich, Sandra 
E|^in, and Evelyn Kaney.
Mrs. Donald Goodfellow, past 
sponsor, congratulated the girls 
and welcomed them into the so­
rority. Mrs. Goodfellow spoke 
briefly on the origin of Phi Gam­
ma Pi. This group Was to be the 
shining light of Evening School.
After the ceremony, luncheon 
¦was served by Miss Ellen Gonter. 
The clever little favors at each 
pi»ce and a purple sleigh on silver 
rSners, were also the work of El­
len Gonter.
evening was the opening of the 
grab bag gifts. George Riffle re­
ceived shaving lotion as did Ed 
Daly, Ralph Czernak received a 
handy file set, Dolores Neff found 
a pretty blue necklace in her 
package. Rose Marie Soltis re­
ceived the prize gift of the eve­
ning but we are unable to men­
tion it as it is “unmentionable.”
Thé evening concluded with a 
floor show and dancing.
Evening School 
Xmas Assembly
On Monday evening, December 
19, from Porter Hall Room 100 re­
sounded the 200 voices of the eve­
ning student body who were gath­
ered together for the Christmas as­
sembly. It was certainly gratifying 
to see so many wonderful students 
turn out to pay their tribute to the 
Prince of Peace.
Mr. Sam Gibson, Religious Co­
ordinator, opened the program 
with a prayer. Dr. Graham then 
spoke on the Carnegie Plan, and 
how it is applicable to this Christ­
mas assembly. The Singer, Don 
Brucker, rendered a few selections 
and then led the group in singing.
Matthew Bertovich, President of 
Student Council, thanked every 
one for coming and wished them 
a very happy holiday season.
All the gay holiday decorations
you saw at the front of the room 
were the work of Mary Alice Pe­
terson. Credit also goes to Mary 
Alice for her fine planning of the 
program.
Morrow¦
[Continued from page 1]
firmly convinced everyone con­
cerned that the Buddy Morrow 
Orchestra was really on the way 
to the prominence that was pre­
dicted for them.
A few months later he follow­
ed up with Rose, Rose I Love 
You, which hit. the top of every 
best-seller list across the coun­
try, and boosted Buddy Morrow 
and his orchestra into the position 
of one of the top hands in the 
nation. Since then he has cut for 
RCA Victor I Ain’t Got Nobody, 
Some of These Days, Memphis 
Drag, Can’t Give You Anything 
But Love and many other record 
hits.
He is currently working for 
Mercury records. Within the last 
year Mercury has released Bud­
dy’s Mr. Sandman, Rock A Beat- 
in’ Boogie, I Don’t Wanna Mambo 
Polka, and On the Alamo.
Morrow has set up a code of 
clean, listenable, danceable 
rhythms which is proving very 
popular with the colleges and 
critics alike. As Buddy puts it, 
“Do not try to educate the public 
from the bandstand; instead play 
the type of music that they want 
to hear.”
Mortar Board is a national sen­
ior women’s honorary whose chief 
purpose is to undertake projects 
which will be of service and bene­
fit to the school and the students. * * *
Omicron Delta Kappa is the 
national leadership honorary soci­
ety for senior men, founded in 
1914 at Washington and Lee Uni­
versity.
What’s doing
at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft
U. S. Jets Dominate —¦ 
International Air Transport
Many engineering graduates would like to be con­
cerned with air power of the next generation. One 
way to fulfill that ambition is to pursue a career 
alongside engineers who have consistently produced 
the world’s best aircraft engines.
Most major U. S. airlines, recognizing the future of jet 
flight in commercial transportation, have placed their orders 
for jet-powered transports. Of added significance, however, 
is that American-made equipment will be flown also by 
foreign airlines in the age of jet travel.
Flying Douglas DC-8 Clippers or Boeing 707 Strato- 
liners, these domestic and foreign airlines, circling the globe, 
will shrink it 40 per cent. For power, the entire fleet will 
rely on Pratt & Whitney Aircraft jet engines. Such achieve­
ment is evidence of unchallenged leadership.
Super 
Snooper
Your Super Snooper had a 
very nice holiday vacation. Did
y.$l? >
We were very sorry to learn 
that John Van Holt, Jr., Newman 
Club president and Plaid re­
porter was confined to his bed 
during the holidays. John’s holi­
day guest was pneumonia. We 
trust you are well on the road 
to recovery, John.
“A gentleman is just a wolf 
with his ears pinned back.”É
umors are flying that Joe 
•gan’s gal, Josephine, is now 
wearing a diamond sparkler on 
her third finger, left hand. Con­
gratulations Joe and Jo!
“Matrimony: An institution 
of learning where a man 
loses his Bachelor's Degree 
and his wife acquires a Mas- 
ter’s
Have you any interesting 
stories from over the holidays 
you would like to share with 
«s? Did any of you go out of 
town for Christmas or New 
Years? We would like to hear all
*bout it.
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft power 
for international jet fleet
DOMESTIC AIRLINES
Pan American World Airways 
United Air Lines 
National Airlines 
American Airlines 
Braniff International Airway# 
Eastern Air Lines 
Continental Airlines
World's foremost 
designer and builder 
of aircraft engines
FOREIGN AIRLINES
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines 
Japan Air Lines
The 1-57 turbojet, first engine in aviation 
history to achieve an official power rating 
in the 10,000-pound thrust class. Its pace- 
setting performance in military aircraft 
blazed the way for American jet transport 
leadership.
PRATT & WHITNEY 
AIRCRAFT,
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORFOtATION 
CAST HARTFORD «.CONNECTICUT,

---------------------------------------------------

Page «—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 1«, 195«
because itis More Per
Engineers In Demand; 
Opportunities Await
By Marlene Daehnert
No engineer who graduates -from Carnegie Tech in June, 1956, 
should regret the years he has spent in college. His degree is going 
to be the key to some of the best jobs offered by American industry. 
It seems that many companies have decided that Tech men with 
their nevyi technical knowledge* —— nevyi
and training are valuable assets^to 
any business, and the result is cut 
throat competition between big 
and small corporations for Car­
negie Tech graduates. Since the 
demand for engineers far exceeds 
the supply, the class of ’56 can 
look forward to a starting salary 
of $400 a month.
Beginning on February 9, 1956, 
over 325 companies will hold 
scheduled interviews on Tech’s 
campus. Engineers will have a 
chance to speak to representatives 
from such corporations as DuPont 
and Westinghouse and to find out 
for what jobs they would be best 
suited. Every senior can have as 
many as 30 or 40 interviews be­
fore he decides what company he 
will work for. By the end of May 
it is hoped that all ’56 grads will 
have made their final job choices.
Women, Too
Women graduates also can profit 
from this oversupply of jobs. 
Company representatives are com­
ing to Carnegie Tech to find sec­
retaries, home economists, and sci­
ence majors to fill positions in of­
fices, hospitals, and laboratories. If 
a girl is willing to work in any 
section of the United States, there 
is no limit to the job opportunities 
she may choose from.
Warner
[Continued from page Ij
of the Clinton Laboi'atories at 
Oak Ridge, Tenn.
Educated At Indiana
The 1956 ACS president was 
born at Goshen, Ind., in 1897 and 
received his A. B. degree in 1919, 
his M.A. in 1920 and his Ph.D. 
in 1923 from the University of 
Indiana. He later engaged in 
post-doctoral research at the Uni­
versity of Michigan.
Dr. Warner was a research 
chemist for several years in pri­
vate industry and an instructor in 
chemistry at Indiana University 
before joining the Carnegie Tech 
faculty as an instructor in 1926. 
His career at Carnegie Tech has 
been one of steady progress to 
the top, through the ranks of as­
sistant professor of chemistry, as­
sociate professor of theoretical 
chemistry, associate professor of 
metallurgical engineering, and 
professor of chemistry and head 
of the department—a position to 
which he was appointed in 1938.
When Tech planned a major 
expansion of its graduate pro­
gram in 1945, Dr. Warner was ap­
pointed dean of graduate studies 
in the College of Engineering and 
Science, and two years later he 
assumed additional respnsibilities 
as assistant director of .the same 
college. He became president of 
Carnegie Tech in 1950.
Dean Bach—
[Continued from page I]
associated with the Federal Re­
serve as chief economist, and he 
has served as consultant to the 
Hoover Commission. He was made 
dean of the I A school in 1949, 
when it was founded by William 
Mellon.
Everyone in the Tech commu­
nity is invited to hear Dean Bach 
speak on this vital issue Tuesday, 
January 10, at 7:00 in Room 100, 
Porter Hall. The next forum will 
be February 21, when Dean Teare 
will speak on “Problems and 
Trends in Engineering Education.”
Seniors
Have you had your picture 
taken yet? Gimbel’s fifth floor, 
before Feb. 4.
Large Leisure 
Reading Collection 
In Main Library£
By Gladys McAllister
The libraries on campus are de­
signed primarily to meet the 
scholastic needs of the students 
and to provide literature perti­
nent to the courses of study. Thei'e 
is however, one section of the li­
brary designed solely for pleasure; 
this is the leisure reading collec­
tion in the Main Library. This is 
a small collection of popular lit­
erature ranging from the novel 
Marjorie Morningside by Herman 
Wouk to the play Bus Stop by 
William Inge, to the non-fictional 
criticism of modern education Why 
Johnny Can’t Read by Rudolph 
Flesch. All the books in the col­
lection are well-known, current 
literature of a non-technical na­
ture.
The leisure reading collection 
was begun in 1952 as a project of
the Tech Library Staff Association. 
In 1953 the leisure library was 
taken over by the library staff 
which selects books designed to 
appeal to students, faculty, and 
personnel, and chooses on the basis 
of suggestions from readers and 
with consideration to Book-of-the- 
Month selections. Suggestions are 
welcomed by the staff, who ask 
that students write the author, 
title, publisher, and description of 
the book on an index card, address 
it to the Main Librai-y, and drop 
it in the intra-school mail. Books 
which are no longer in great de­
mand are removed from the 
shelves every four months, so the 
collection provides a small number 
of the most popular current books.
For something light to relieve 
the assigned readings and the text 
books the leisure reading collec­
tion offers the most recent in pop­
ular literature. The librarian will 
be glad to show students the shelf, 
if they just want to browse.
Council-
[Continued from page 1]
retarial major ran for the open 
secretarial position.
Elections for Student Council of­
ficers will be held at this Wednes­
days meeting, after the confirma­
tion of new members. If the re­
vision of Council presently being 
worked on is confirmed in the 
spring, these members will con­
tinue to hold office for the rest 
of the s&mester.
Calendar—
[Continued from page 1 ] 
opening paragraph, These prac­
tical and inexpensive ideas, along 
with those suggested by a cer­
tain Tartan writer, should cer­
tainly have provided presents for 
dozens of ecstatic relatives and 
former friends.
The remainder of the maga­
zine was composed of some 
rather humorous allusions to cob­
blestones verticul, (or is it verti- 
cle?) and tomcats. It might be 
mentioned that the humor in the 
upper cartoon on page seven was 
too subtle for all but the most 
discerning reader. The same com­
ment could be applied to the 
glorious, uninhibited comment 
made by the handsome prince in 
the Madge Westerman tale, 
“Madge, you’re a dool.” (This is 
a direct quotation, not our own
singular disregard for conven­
tional spelling rules.)
As to the mechanical composi­
tions of the magazine, one self- 
appointed authority on this sub­
ject ranked the layout and copy 
preparation as mediocre. The 
Scot staff can well be pleased at 
this compliment, for that repre­
sents quite an improvement ov® 
the last issue. Our authority 
(name withheld for security rea­
sons) also was heard to remark, 
“With a little more effort from 
the staff, the Scot wouldn’t be 
half bad.”
C Book
The C-Book supplement, 
published by Alpha Phh 
Omega service fraternity, has 
been completed and is now be­
ing: distributed in the Book­
store at no cost.
Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Co., Pittsburgh 10, rt.
Packed!
Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke 
packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray
Firm and pleasing to the lips
. . . mild yet deeply satisfying to 
the taste — Chesterfield alone is 
pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.
The more perfectly packed your 
cigarette, the more pleasure it 
gives . . . and Accu-Ray packs 
Chesterfield far more perfectly.
To the touch ... to the taste,
an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satis­
fies the most. . . burns more 
evenly, smokes much smoother.
CHESTERFIELD
MILD, YET THEY £aÜä/fl f
® licctrr * Miuu to$255o Me
