Lee gets 
landslide 
support
By MIKE PORTUESI
Tartan Staffwriter
Karen Lee was elected President of Stu­
dent Senate last week with 634 of the 1035 
ballots cast, or 61 percent of the vote.
The other candidates, Peter Cohen and 
Seth Kaplan, placed second and third 
respectively, with 167 votes for Cohen and 
137 for Kaplan. Greg Fox, a write-in can­
didate, received 74 votes.
“I’m thankful that so many people came 
out and believed in me,” said Lee. “The on­
lyway I can do this job is with support. Even 
if I had only received a hundred votes, I 
would still have been happy because a hun­
dred people had believed in me and sup­
ported me.”
Cohen was not unhappy about his perfor­
mance in the campaign. “I was the best 
prepared I could have been. I thought I per­
formed very well,” he stated. “Karen Lee is 
very qualified — I look forward to working 
with her.”
Cohen was re-elected to an H&SS seat in 
Senate through write-in votes. “I hope to be 
re elected to the General Campus and In­
formation Committee, which does hold a lot 
of power,” he said.
Kaplan felt he handled the campaign with 
too much publicity. “The signs, the fence — 
no one pays attention to publicity. Eighty 
percent of the people don’t even vote--the 
only way to win is.to be popular. If I had 
wanted to win, I would have had to convince 
that 80 percent to go out and vote.”
“I thought for a freshman, I did very well.
1 was overwhelmed at the support for Karen 
ke,’ Kaplan added. Peter and I dealt with 
the issues. She knows more people. If it 
wasn’t for her, it would have been a close race 
If I had known the outcome, I wouldn’t 
have put so much effort into the project.” 
Fox described his campaign as “a lark,” 
hut serious as well. “I iound out about the 
^udent Senate elections, and I was think- 
lng about the presidency and the rhetoric 
~ things like tuition and SEI, and I realiz-
The sunglasses were out this weekend for Spring Carnival, where Carnival goers enjoyed sunny skies and temperatures in the 
80’s. For more on Spring Carnival, see the Carnival supplement. . , , „" rr photo by Edward In
ed that there were things I wanted done — 
everyday things like working bank machines, 
crunchberries in Kiltie, and two-ply toilet 
paper. I went to apply for candidacy, but I 
was too late. So I ran as a write-in,” Fox said.
“I was totally serious. I didn’t expect to 
win, but there would have been no telling
— it would have been a fluke had I won.
I would have done all the things the Presi­
dent would have done, but I still would have 
gone for the two-ply toilet paper,” Fox add­
ed. “I never intended to make fun of 
anybody or offend anyone, but I did take 
some abuse from one of the candidates.”
In Senate elections, Hilary DeBroff was 
elected to the IM seat with 42 votes out of 
73 ballots cast. Seana Chun, Brett Whysel, 
and Peter Cohen took the H&SS spots, with 
a total of 168 ballots cast.
From a total of 258 ballots, Michael Bett, 
Michal Shuldiner, and Eric Rocher were 
selected for MCS Senate positions. In CIT, 
with 304 ballots cast, Tamal Mukherjee, 
David Goldstein, Joe Murphy, and Andy Lee 
were elected, each receiving a near equal 
share of votes.
CFA Senate election winners were write- 
ins. Nadine Flynn and Ken Miller took the 
Senate positions, out of 81 ballots cast.
CMU opens $3 million 
Research Center
Changes in store for 
registration system
fiy ByMI KE POyyBRITU
^artan Contributing Editor 
u ^ registration, the first step towards 
Passing go” for Fall semester, begins tomor- 
r°w. For many, the entire enrollment pro- 
^ess ^ a headache, but changes are 
torthcoming.
The registration system on this campus 
Archaic,” affirmed Assistant Registrar Bob 
ecc&- Checca has seen registration on 
j^er campuses, #ind believes Carnegie- 
^llons system is inadequate for the 1980’s: 
a system isn’t working well, we should
0 down the road for improving it. 
^cording to Checca, Registrar Dick 
c ln^)erger led a study last fall to gather the mPUs community’s opinions on the 
^tration process. “Their recommendation as for the development of an interactive
Ra:
data-base system for student records and 
registration.”
Hence, “a great deal of time and money 
is currently being spent on improving the 
system,” Checca said. “It’s hard to justify the 
cost of a new system, but the cost will be 
worth the efficiency and satisfaction we get 
from an improved system.”
“We don’t have the on-line interaction 
capabilities required for a totally automated 
registration yet, but registration for 
freshmen in CIT/MCS and H&SS is already 
automated,” stated Checca, and he expects 
a complete new system to be ready in three 
to five years. “We’ll soon be blasting off from 
the mid 1970’s to the 1980 s.
A more immediate change will occur this 
fall regarding enrollment status. Until this 
continued on page 5
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
CMU opened its new $3 million Center for 
Fluorescence Research in Biomedical 
Sciences, which will be directed by D. Lan­
sing Taylor, professor of biological sciences 
here at Carnegie-Mellon.
The center, the first of its kind, will con­
duct pioneeering research in fluorescence 
spectroscopy, a relatively new method of stu­
dying live cells that could revolutionize basic 
cell research, medical diagnosis and drug 
testing.
“We are unique in spanning the full range 
from synthesis of probes to laser spectroscopy 
to analyze cells. This will be a very' exciting 
field in the next few years,” said Taylor.
Fluorescence spectroscopy is a means of 
studying live cells that involves creating 
special fluorescent molecules called probes, 
inserting them in cells, and drawing deduc­
tions about the cells by studying the effects 
of the fluorescence.
Four other scientists will play key roles in 
the center
Frederick Lanni, research biologist in the 
Department of Biological Science, is a 
biophysicist who specializes in designing and 
using state-of-the-art electronic equipment 
to measure fluorescent parameters. He is try­
ing to perform three-dimensional 
reconstructions of living cells that have dif­
ferent components labeled with fluoi ¿scent 
probes.
Alan Waggoner is an associate professor 
of biological sciences with expertise in 
designing and synthesizing these probes. 
Robert Murphy is a cell biologist who works 
in flow cytometry and computer science. He 
is also applying “cluster analysis” to dissect 
large amounts of data based on multiple 
parameters. Robert Birge, the head of 
CMU’s Chemistry Department, uses lasers to 
study the molecular electronics of specific 
molecules.
What results is a technique with tremen­
dous potential as a tool for basic research 
in cell or molecular biology and for medical 
diagnosis and testing. Negotiations are in 
progress with several drug companies for 
grants due to the tremendous capability for 
drug testing through this center.
Fluorescence spectroscopy is faster, more 
versatile, more sensitive and more precise 
than mature technologies for studying cells, 
such as electron microscopy and techniques 
using radioactive tracers. It can be done 
on live cells without damaging them.
Researchers can diagnose any disease link­
ed to a factor for which a probe can be 
designed. For instance, many diseases are 
caused by abnormal enzyme activity. A pro­
be designed to report on that enzyme could 
diagnose such a disease, and could test a 
drug to correct it.
In This Issue:
News
Cyert gets award........page 3
Abortion trauma.........page 3
Entertainment
Triumph at Civic Arena...page 5
Chuck Jones exhibition...page 7
Sports
Track wins.............page 9
Editorial.............page 14
Acme...............page 19
Joe Freshman........page 20
Plus Special Carnival Supplement

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—April 23, 1985
Nationwide Greek boom may level o
Minot, ND (CPS) — While most frater­
nities and sororities around the country are 
full to capacity, the boom seems to be go­
ing bust on some campuses.
Some observers predict the still-isolated 
Greek failures are a precursor to a nation­
wide downturn or leveling off of greek ac­
tivity, pointing to changing student attitudes 
and financial aid woes as evidence.
But others say it’s wrong to read much into 
the failures, and that the affected campuses 
simply haven’t caught on to the growth trend 
yet.
At Minot State College, for example, Nu 
Sigma Tau closed down “for financial 
reasons,” leaving just one frat and three 
sororities — with a total membership of 45 
students — left on campus.
MSC used to host three frats and four 
sororities.
“In my years here, I’ve seen membership 
as high as 80 in one group,” recalls Garnet 
Cox, MSC’s dean of students.
A number of other colleges — several 
branches of the University of Minnesota and 
Penn State, among others — also are seeing 
their Greek populations dwindle somewhat.
“Greek participation is down except for 
two houses,” Cox reports. “In the past two 
years membership has been very low, and it’s 
been edging down for the past five or six 
years.”
“Everywhere else, frats and sororities are 
gaining members,” laments Tim Ross of 
Sigma Tau Gamma, MSC’s remaining 
fraternity. “Were rushing for the first three 
or four weeks of the quarter, but the attitude 
is so poor on campus.”
Ross blames the decline on “a change in 
attitude from Greek life,” and what students 
perceive as the high financial cost of join­
ing up.
“It’s a strong system,” adds Mike Fries of 
Psi Upsilon at Wesleyan University, “but the 
composition of the school is changing. 
There’s less interest in Greeks.”
Wesleyan Greek membership declined it
1982 but has rebounded since houses began 
stretching out rush periods.
Nebraska Greeks also prolonged the rush 
period and changed eligibility rules to 
reverse a membership decline several years 
ago, reports Rachel Jensen of the Interfrater­
nity Council in Lincoln.
Membership at Alabama, Cornell, and 
Penn State slid this year, but Dan Daughtery 
of Penn States Pi Kappa Psi says yearly 
membership is “a give and take. We were up 
last year more than we’re down this year.” 
At the University of Minnesota- 
Minneapolis, however, some houses report 
membership drops of as much as 15 percent. 
Seven to ten houses have closed in the last 
four years.
UM’s large commuter population ac­
counts for some of the decline, says Alpha 
Tau Omega member Pat Teage, “but there’s 
just a lack of interest.”
While more than 80 percent of UM’s 
42,000 students live off campus, the college 
currently houses 27 Greek groups.
“The idea of legacy, recruiting (alumni’s) 
children, grandchildren, cousins, hasn’t 
worked well lately, though we’re starting to 
push that again,” Beta Theta Pi member 
Guy Purvis explains. “And the reputations 
don’t mean as much. Perhaps the kids in 
high school, just aren’t interested in Greek 
life.”
“The national cycle for Greeks is down all 
over,” MSC’s Cox claims. “The interest is not 
there with incoming students.”
“It’s not the start of a trend,” argues Bob 
Marchesani, assistant executive director of
the National Interfraternity Conference 
(NIC) in Indianapolis, Ind. “It strikes me as 
very odd. It flies in the face of anything we 
see nationally.”
“They’re dealing with very small 
numbers,” contends William Gurowitz, Cor­
nell’s student affairs spokesman. “Minnesota 
is a high commuter campus in an urban 
area, and at Minot, with only a few Greeks 
groups, any incidence of thought that frats 
aren’t the place to be makes for a drop in 
membership.”
Indeed, a recent study concludes 1984 
fraternity membership topped 250,000, up 
from about 150,000 in the Vietnam War era 
when Greek popularity fell on many cam­
puses. In 1965 membership was 188,000.
Sorority membership has increased by six 
percent every two years since the early 
seventies.
“The trend toward increasing membership 
began on the east and west coasts,” says 
Sociology Professor Jack Levin of Nor­
theastern University, author of the 1984 na­
tional Greek census study.
“It doesn’t surprise me it hasn’t spread 
there (MSC and UM),” he adds. “I predict 
the Midwest will experience a big spurt in 
the next five years.”
“Some places lag behind the coasts,” Levin 
continues. “It’s a regional lag, but it’s also 
probably lack of interest and money. Five 
years from now, I bet you’ll see the trend 
reverses there (MSC and UM).”
“The situation at Minot is not a trend,” 
the NIC’s Marchesani agrees. “At least not 
in the next five years because Greeks today 
and marketing themselves in a more attrac­
tive way.”
Indeed, “fraternities and sororities are go­
ing to have to pay attention to the student 
of the eighties,” says Mary Rouse, University
of Wisconsin assistant dean of students
“There’s more academic pressure 
Greeks with a heavier academic emphasis- 
fare better than those that remain witl 
traditions like hazing,” she predicts.
“Greeks need to update and revise to a 
peal to a different type of student,” 
Cox agrees. “I don’t anticipate a return 
earlier membership levels at Minot, but lr 
anticipate a return to a healthy level,"
“Good friends don’t let good fnends smoke cigarettes.”
Larry Hagman
Cigarettes aren’t good 
for your friends. Adopt a 
friend who smokes and 
help ’em quit today. You’ll 
both be glad tomorrow.
AMERICAN 
Vf CANCER 
f SOCIETY®
WE
IBM
ITT
TRS
DEC
MONEY
FOR YOUR 
USED COMPUTER* 
BUY AND SELL USED 
COMPUTERS
COLUMBIA
COMMODORE
TELEVIDEO
OSBORNE
APPLE SANYO 
KAYPRO TANDY 
COMPAQ EAGLE 
CORONA AT&T
OVER 40 BRANDS TO CHOOSE FROM 
SEE US FOR YOUR COMPUTER NEEDS
STUDENT DISCOUNT W/CMU ID 
ON 
NEW PRINTERS, MONITORS, 
MODEMS & SOFTWARE
‘CHECK WITH THE CMU COMPUTER STORE 
FOR UNITS STILL UNDER A PURCHASE 
AGREEMENT.
4051 WM. PENN HWY. 
MONROEVILLE, PA
856-4400
THE RECORD RECYCLER 
IS HAVING A GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE.
Store Closed April 22nd.
The sale is from April 23rd-29th.
All used & cutout albums 40% off 
All new & import albums 20% off 
Thanks to all for shopping at the Record Recycler
5824 Forbes Ave 
Squirrel Hill 
421-2835
(Elaine Powers building — downstairs)
NOTICE!
QE2 Standby Fare 10 Europe—Now $599.
This standby fare provides a 
berth in a room for 4 (we'll 
find traveling companions for 
you). Or, for $699, sail in a 
minimum grade room for 2 
people. This limited offer is 
subject to withdrawal without 
prior notice and may not be 
combined with any other offer. 
Rate does not include taxes or 
airfare. Confirmation will be 
given 3 weeks prior to sailing;
a $75 deposit is required with 
your request. For details, see 
your travel agent or write: 
Cunard, PO. Box 2935, Grand 
Central Station, New York,
N Y 10163.
fVf
Hi
UEEN 
LIZABETH
British Registri/2
CUNARD'Ci CUNARD 1985

---------------------------------------------------

April 23, 1985—The Tartan—Page 3
yert receives 1985 Brotherhood Award
CC.J-) — President Richard M. Cyert 
receive the 1985 Brotherhood Award 
K the National Conference of Christians 
Jews (NCCJ) at its 34th Annual Dinner
I4-tty T. Pickett, executive director of the 
tern Pa. and W. Va. Region of NCCJ, 
Cyert was selected for “his wise council 
profound vision not only in higher 
cation, but also his persevering commit- 
nt to the vitalization of our community 
the security of fundamental rights of all 
citizens.”
CCJ annually honors a person pursuing 
ideals of the organization in combatting 
judice and creating understanding 
ong all faiths.
Cyert is a native of Minnesota and is a 
graduate of the University of Minnesota. He 
earned his doctorate at Columbia Universi­
ty. During World War II, he served in the 
U.S. Navy. Before coming to CMU, where 
he rose from instructor to dean of the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administra­
tion before being named president in 1972, 
he taught in Minnesota, New York.
He has been recognized as one of the na­
tions top leaders in higher education, and 
his influence helped the Defense Dept, 
choose CMU for its $103 million computer 
software research center.
Cyert has won many awards from the na­
tions outstanding organizations including
the Ford Foundation and John Guggenheim 
Memorial foundation, and Hofstra Univer­
sity, Waynesburg, Westminster, Allegheny 
and Bethany Colleges have honored him 
with degrees, in addition to those conferred 
upon him by the University of Gothenburg 
in Sweden, and the University of Leuven in 
Belgium.
He was named Pittsburgh Vectors “Man 
of the Year” in 1984, and the “Person of Vi­
sion” by the Pittsburgh Blind Assn. this year.
Among his activities, he is past president 
of The Institute of Management Sciences 
and heads the Penna. Council on Economic 
Education; director of the Regional In­
dustrial Development Corp., the Pittsburgh 
Symphony, Pittsburgh Chamber Music
Society, and Shadyside Academy; and a 
trustee of Presbyterian-University Hospital.
Cyert serves as director of several corpora­
tions, including Koppers, H.J. Heinz, White 
Consolidated Industries and Allegheny 
International.
He has written many books and articles 
on accounting, the economy, business, 
management, social, and behavorial 
sciences.
NCCJ was founded 56 years ago and has 
been committed to a nation-wide educa­
tional program to combat bigotry and 
hatred, and to establish a social order in 
which the religious ideals of brotherhood 
and justice shall become the standards of 
human relationships.
llm highlights campus abortion discussion
ROBERT PFEIFER
! to The Tartan
bortion trauma” was the subject of a 
given to concerned students by Sandra 
n of “Women Exploited by Abortion.” 
he CMU Association for Life (AFL) 
ored the talk, which took place on 
15 in Skibo’s Wherett Room.
uan, who said she had an abortion when 
er 30’s, formed “Women Exploited by 
rtion,” to serve similar functions that a 
therapy group would supply to a rape 
. According to Huan, women seeking 
ions are victimized by the clinics 
use:
) Clinics tell pregnant women, “Time is
Le essence.”
) Women are led to believe that no alter-
ves exist.
) Clinics do not recognize that trauma
Huan wanted to relate her abortion tale 
to women. Therefore, her final encapsula­
tion was that abortions can not be tolerated 
and should be made illegal in the U.S.
After Huan’s talk, general discussion fill­
ed the Wherrett Room for over an hour. 
Topics included contraception, sex educa­
tion, and the viability of both preventive 
measures. At times the conversation became 
passionate and discursive.
As an organization on campus, AFL is a 
few years old. According to the president of 
AFL, Felicia Thibeault, the group has 
already seen “one pro-choice group come 
and go.”
AFL advocates life and human rights con­
cerns. They are for legislation that makes 
abortion illegal except for when a mother’s 
life is in danger. “This would be an appease­
ment clause,” stated Thibeault, “because 
modem medicine has made the perils of a 
mother losing her life during pregnancy
unbelievably small.”
When questioned about abortions in rape 
related cases, Thibeault countered that AFL 
“does not think we should answer one act of 
violence with another.”
DuBell added that the chances of 
pregnancies resulting from rape is in- 
fintesimally small because “rapists rarely 
ejaculate since rape is a violent not a sexual 
act.”
DuBell also sighted rapists’ low sperm 
count due to chronic masturbation and im­
mediate medical attention on the victim’s 
part as reasons why pregnancies resulting 
from rape are “a tenth of one-tenth of 1 per­
cent occurence.”
AFL sees the abortion issue as only one 
aspect of life. They vow to keep working even 
after they succeed in implementing legisla­
tion that makes abortion illegal. Approx­
imately five members of AFL are active 
volunteers at Life-Line, an organization
which siipplies young mothers with emo­
tional support.
Other members have formed a commit­
tee within AFL called “Pro-lifers for Sur­
vival.” The committee is an anti-nuclear Pro­
life group. Still there are other members 
whose main interest is in helping the aged 
and the infirmed.
Ultimately, AFL members come together 
on one point — Life is life. “We must always 
give a consistent answer states DuBell “to 
the question: Does this person have value or 
doesn’t it?”
AFL meets every other week. The group 
welcomes anyone. AFL even prefers those 
who disagree with their beliefs because “it’s 
not very productive enlightening those who 
already agree with you.” For those students 
interested in either attending the meetings 
or getting on AFL’s mailing list, contact 
Felicia Thibeault or Joe Murphy. Both are 
listed in the C-Book.
REMINDER:
H&SS and Industrial 
Management Juniors:
Friday, April 26 is the deadline for submitting your 
“Student Data Sheet” to the Career Services and 
Placement Office, Warner Hall 19. Next Fall, very 
early in the semester, prospective employers will 
contact the University and ask to examine the file 
of “Student Data Sheets.” If your sheet is not includ­
ed, you will have missed an opportunity to cap­
ture their attention.
In addition, keep in mind that these data sheets 
are a useful prelude to the task of constructing your 
resume, and that we want you to have your 
resume ready early in the Fall to be included in the 
^s-igse H&SS Resume Book. We urge you to 
make a point of visiting the Career Services and 
Placement Office this month to meet with 
Associate Director of Career Services and Place­
ment Mary Louise Haugh for guidance in the ear- 
steps of constructing your resume.
H&SS Deans Office
ATTENTION . . . CLASS OF 8S 
ONLY 
FREE PIZZA - ALL YOU CAN EAT
COME JOIN THE ADMISSION STAFF FOR A 
STUDY BREAK OF PIZZA AND POP, AND 
LEARN ABOUT BECOMING A MEMBER OF 
CMAC (CARNEGIE-MELLON ADMISSIONS 
COUNCIL), AN ALUMNI GROUP THAT HELPS 
THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE TO RECRUIT AND 
INTERVIEW HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS 
NATION-WIDE.
WHEN: WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24 
TIME: 5:00 PM
WHERE: ADMISSIONS LOUNGE 
WARNER HALL 101

---------------------------------------------------

CAPEI PIZZA
$2.45
Where Today... 
... Tomorrow 
And Every Day... 
you flet the Best Pizza In Oakland at the Best Price!
Eat-In or Delivered
+ taxLARGE PIZZA and 
2 LITERS OF PEPSI!!
UNBELIEVABLE!!
(XXXXXXXXXXXXX3OC0X)OOOOOOO(XIOOOOOC)OOOOCHX)C1OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC)OO
*OAKLAND'S FINEST NIGHTCLUB*
rCEBES STUDIO
*«BGANTIC VIDEO SCREEN ENTERTAINMENT*
•Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.«
ooamx)0(X)oimiooo(Mooo(X)Ooooooooooooooocooo(Xiaxiooooocox)oooo
3415 EOCBES AVE. PGH. PA. 19213 PHONE €81-2202
OUR SAME FAMOUS SPECIAL 
WITH NOW AN EVEN GREATER 
SAVINGS TO YOU!!
Wh»n You're Onto A Good Thing, Stick With Iti!
CMU 
Lacrosse
Come see the 
Tartans in action 
as they take on 
Slippery Rock in 
their final game
of the 1985 
season Friday, 
April 26 at 4:00 
on the IM field. 
Catch all the ac­
tion in what will 
certainly be a 
hard-hitting and 
exciting contest.
CMU Lacrosse. 
The fastest game 
on foot.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
riumph and Mountain rock the Civic Arena
L ANTHONY A. DATRI
brton Entertainment Editor
With all the media hype over the likes of 
rince and Michael Jackson, it is hearten- 
to know that there are still bands out 
here that still espouse the basic tenets of 
ck and Roll: power and emotion. Such a 
and is Canada’s Triumph. Triumph has 
L0me one of the leaders of the “Canadian 
Lasion,” a term inspired by the “British In- 
ision of the sixties. Along with other Cana- 
bands—like April Wine, Rush, and 
¿lliwack—Triumph has been around since 
Ij£ 70’s, but has found widespread populari- 
j only in recent years.
Triumph began in Toronto during the 
lid-70’s with Rik Emmett on guitars and 
cals, Mike Levine on bass and keyboards,
and Gil Moore on drums and vocals. The 
band found local popularity, releasing a self­
titled album in 1976, which was never releas­
ed in America. About half of the songs from 
this album, complemented by new songs, 
formed the band’s first American album, 
Rock and Roll Machine. Although these 
albums were not widely recognized, they 
contain a wealth of imaginative music, com­
bining well Emmett’s talented guitar work 
and Moore’s ethereal keyboards. The guitar 
solo in the title track of Rock and Roll 
Machine is classic, as is the cover of Joe 
Walsh’s Rocky Mountain Way
The trio’s next release, Just a Game (1979), 
found some American airplay with the songs 
“Hold On,” “Lay It on the Line,” and of 
course, “American Girls.” The synthesizers
photo by Paul Natkin/Photo Reserve 
lik Emmet (1.) and Mike Levine (r.) are Triumph’s talented axemen.
are less prominent on this album, although 
Emmett’s axe work continued its brilliance, 
proving to the world his guitar virtuosity. 
The inside of this disk’s gatefold cover 
features a board game that depicts the trials 
of a rock band struggling for stardom, with 
squares such as “Road crew mutinies! Lose 
a turn!” and “Groupies think you’re cute! Cut 
across!” The imaginative cover art and 
creative packaging found here are rarely 
seen in albums made after the early or 
mid-70’s.
Triumphs next album was the one that 
hooked me, 1980’s Progression of Power. 
Powerful songs like “I Can Survive” and “I 
Live for the Weekend” showed that Triumph 
was here to stay. As with the band’s previous 
albums, Emmett’s voice shows power and 
emotion, as does his vocal work, the two 
complementing each other perfectly, pro­
ducing consitently fine songs that range 
from the defiant “I Can Survive” to the en­
trancing loneliness of “In the Night.”
1981 saw the release of Allied Forces, the 
band’s first nationally popular effort. The 
songs “Fight the Good Fight” and “Magic 
Power,” the albums biggest hits, characterize 
a sound that is somewhat different than that 
of Triumph’s previous works, easier on the 
synthesizers. The vocal and guitar power, 
though, are still there, but in a more basic 
form.
The 1983 release of Never Surrender 
brought even greater attention to the band, 
although it sports only one “hit” song, the 
title track. Never Surrender showed the 
band moving towards a heavier sound, 
though still one of “hard rock,” not heavy 
metal.
Triumph’s current release, Thunder Seven 
sees the band as good as ever. The album’s 
singles, “Follow Your Heart” and “Spell­
bound,” show the same magic that has been 
Triumph since their first album. Here still
rhe Alchemist examines human behavior
JONATHAN STEELE
to The Tartan 
|Bruce Blair’s production of The 
chemist by Ben Jonson had its good points 
t its bad points. The basic theme of the 
ay concerns the attempts of Subtle, Face, 
pd Dol Common to gull a series of victims.
he Spectator
ph person represents an extreme aspect of 
ar behavior which Jonson was parody- 
and satirizing. Sir Epicure Mammon 
presented gluttony and rapaciousness, 
relation Wholesome represented sanc- 
poniousness, and Kastril was greedy to the 
ilnt °f pandering for his own widowed 
er. Dame Pliant.
I Mr. Blair drew his characters with strong, 
H strokes, but the basic message and in- 
1 of the first two-thirds of the play were 
comprehensible. The bottom line — the 
lal goal — is to communicate. The ac- 
'must> as their fundamental thrust, com- 
“Bicate clearly with each other. The pur- 
°f saying every line must be to com- 
niCate the meaning of that line clearly 
rj effectively to the other actor. Then — 
[ °nly then - will the audience unders- 
t'le meaning of the line, and therefore 
r Rtand the scene and the act and the 
l' *n this production, movements and 
^ were given with energy, pace, and 
but too many of them were done for
Pliant. The last third of the play was very 
well done and very amusing.
Excellent performances were turned in by 
Michael Hartson as the fast changing Face, 
Marcus Lovett as a superb Sir Epicure Mam­
mon, LeeAnn Huckestein as a giggly Dame 
Pliant, and Kevin Black in a return to form 
as a well controlled Lovewit. Good perfor­
mances also came from David Gifford as 
Tribulation Wholesome, Renee Schlegel as 
Dol Common, and Aaron Kjenaas as Dap­
per, although all three should make as their 
goal better communication with their fellow 
actors. Tom Willmoth was good, albeit too 
twitchy, as Drugger. Court Whisman, John 
Gribben, Stanley Albers, and Steven 
Delauter were all satisfactory. Helpful in
small parts were A. Edward Manier, David 
Lockhart, David Yezzi, Allison Cain, and 
Nora Sullivan.
The greatest strength of this production 
was the extraordinary costume design by 
Candice Callery. Although an eclectic 
blend, they worked very well in both 
characterization and suggesting the period. 
Settings by David Hill were functional and 
worked well, lights by J. Taylor Frazee, and 
sound by Nancy Blumstein were suitable.
Bruce Blair’s direction provided ex­
emplary energy, but failed to get the message 
across completely. Choreography and move­
ment were quite strong, although the im­
aginary walls of the house were broken 
continued on page 7
¦photo by Neil Zlozower
Gil Moore is solid on drums.
are the powerful guitar and vocal work that 
have brought Triumph to the top of the rock 
scene.
This all brings me to the reason for this 
devoted discourse: Triumph’s May 9th con­
cert at the Civic Arena. Triumph is known 
for their fantastic live performances, which 
feature one of the best light shows on the 
road. Of course, the lights merely add to the 
band’s dynamic performance and powerful 
stage presence. Moore’s solid drumming and 
Levine’s steady bass work will provide a base 
for Emmett’s soaring guitar and vocals. This 
is a show not to miss.
Opening for Triumph will be the reform­
ed Mountain. The original Mountain — 
Corky Laing, Leslie West, Steve Knight, and 
the multi-talented Felix Pappalardi — is best 
known for the classic “Mississippi Queen,” 
which BTO performed as a suprise tribute 
during their recent show.
Only two of the original members remain, 
Laing and West — Pappalardi having died in 
an unfortunate accident. Laing and West 
are joined by Mark Clark on bass and several 
guest musicians (including Ian Hunter) on 
the band’s new album, Go For Your Life, 
which is dedicated to the memory of Felix 
Pappalardi. The cover of the new album is 
cold and clear, in contrast to the mysterious, 
colorful covers of the original incarnation, 
although the theme of mountains carries 
through.
Mountain is back in old form, with West’s 
powerful, somewhat gritty voice and inspired 
guitar work backed by Laing’s experienced 
drumming. I don’t know who all will tour 
with Laing and West, but it sure to be a 
great show.
Forbes Gallery: Molisky and Neubert
1 flear
Nerfut 
lit
Purpose. Fascinating blocking and
energy emanated from the stage, 
hasn’t clear why the characters were 
what they were doing. I found this to 
Pr°hlem until Court Whisman came on 
?1Sec* as a Spanish Don, and LeeAnn 
e^ein played a very funny Dame
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
The Forbes Gallery this week features an 
exhibition of art work by senior illustration 
majors Kathy Molisky and Tom Neubert. 
The artists celebrate their opening this even­
ing at 7:00.
Kathy Molisky, who is double majoring in 
illustration and printmaking, exhibits prints 
from woodcuts, etchings, and lithographs. 
Molisky’s woodcuts are strong black and 
white images, intricate in their depictions of 
the human figure.
“I usually have a specific situation in mind 
before I start, although I don’t really com­
municate anything literal,” said Molisky of 
her woodcuts. “I use the figure as a means 
to represent people, specific situations, or 
forces-things other than the figure.”
The black and white images in Molisky’s 
woodcuts are characterized by the movement 
between the figures. In one piece, On the
Rise, the artist depicts figures representing 
herself in relationship to another person. 
The figures are surrounded by abstract 
fragments of objects that had significance 
in the relationship as well as those objects, 
said Molisky, “that may have significance in 
the future.”
Molisky works in color on her etchings and 
lithographs, but finds working in black and 
white to be “more of a challenge. I like black 
and white imagery, the challenge of it, 
because it depends totally on image rather 
than the emotions of color.”
Tom Neubert exhibits drawings, 
photographs, and paintings. Neubert’s 
photos and drawings interrelate in their 
“dealings with the human condition,” said 
Neubert.
In one drawing, Restrictions, Neubert 
compacts human yet mannequin-like figures 
within a certain space. “I think these figures 
are dehumanized,” said Neubert. “It’s a part.
of my theme of the deterioration of the 
human condition.”
“In many of my drawings and photos I try 
to express a sense of loss of human spirit,” 
said Neubert. Neuberts subject matter for 
both media is frequently a landscape con­
taining one or two elements, such as an old 
shed or farm building.
Neubert’s images rerely contain figurative 
images: rather, the artist strives to reflect the 
isolation of humans through his stark im­
ages. “People can look into these drawings 
and photographs and reflect on themselves. 
I think anyone can interject their own values 
and ideas into these images,” said Neubert.
Kathy Molisky and Tom Neubert are ex­
hibiting their work at the Forbes Gallery un­
til April 28. Gallery hours are 11:00—6:00 
Wednesday through Friday, and noon to 
5:00 Saturday and Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—Aprii 23,1985
John Hurt stars in intense version of 1984
By KRISTOPHER KOHUTH
Tartan Staffwriter
The first motion picture “1984” was releas­
ed twenty-nine years ago, starred Edmund 
O’Brien, and was little more than a depress­
ing love story: it was quickly forgotten. At 
the time of its release a Time magazine film 
critic, explaining the film’s failure, wrote 
that “the camera has not yet been invented 
that can take a picture of an idea.”
Michael Radford, director of the latest 
1984, has created that very camera. 
Through unorthodox uses of story-telling 
and cinematography, his film succeeds in 
communicating the intensely plodding hor­
ror which so distinguished Orwell’s classic.
John Hurt (“The Elephant Man”) is cast 
as Winston Smith, “1984” ’s Everyman. In 
Orwell’s book, Smith worried that the “ten­
sion inside him would translate itself into 
some visible symptom.” Hurt’s creased and 
beaten face display those tensions; the result 
of emotions simmering beneath Smith’s skin, 
and his constant fight to maintain a somber 
appearance to Big Brother’s unblinking 
telescreens. His suppressed existence, alter­
ing historical facts to fit his totalitarian 
government’s needs, is broken only by gulps
of oily State supplied “Victory 
Gin,”“thoughtcrimes” of imagined revolu­
tion, and, ultimately, his “sexcrime” with 
Julia, played here by Suzanne Hamilton.
Neither Hurt’s nor Hamilton’s character 
is very well developed; Orwell sacrificed 
characterization to stress his dark satire, and 
an audience would care little for Winston 
and Julia’s ill-fated affair were it not for the 
direction of Radford. Only in the love scenes 
do we see any glimpses of humanity. Out­
side the walls of their rented bedroom Julia 
appears silent and stifled, but inside with 
Winston she stands naked, both physically 
and mentally. When the thought police 
eventually find and convict them, it is when 
they are at their height of vulnerability, and 
when the audience most cares about them.
The emotional antithesis of Winston 
Smith is “Ministry of Love” official O’Brien. 
He brainwashes Winston into total submis­
sion, forcing him to surrender his only 
pleasure: his illicit love for Julia. O’Brien is 
played by Richard Burton, here in his last 
performance. His understated delivery of 
every line brutally expresses the mindlessness 
of his government’s doctrine, as well as em­
phasizing its assured survival. Tormenting
Smith with his own “private hell” of rats, 
Burton matter-of-factly explains to Winston 
how they will ‘leap onto your face and bore 
straight into it. Sometimes they attack the 
eyes first.”
Adapting to screen a novel like “1984” is 
no easy task, for the book’s almost cliched 
familiarity has increased the public’s sen­
sitivity to any subjective interpretation on the 
part of a filmmaker, and has even jaded 
modem society to Orwell’s grimly portrayed 
reality. Radford realizes this and ignores all 
semblances of narrative disclosure in favor 
of vivid imagery illustrating the horrific 
theme of the novel; filming a world kept in 
a perpetual state of war-tom decrepitude, 
and avoiding the stereotypical hospital 
sterility of most futuristic films. The look of 
the film is mildly surrealist; the actual film 
was altered in the lab to strengthen the blue 
and greys, which fade in and out to 
submerge the images in haunting darkness. 
Only in the recurring Hashes of Winston’s 
imagined paradise, a lush green hillside, do 
we glimpse any natural, and beautiful, col­
ors. Cinematographer Roger Deakins seeks 
the shadows and harsh textures of every 
scene, while production designer Allan
Cameron litters the streets of Oceania 
“1984”s notorious oligarchy, with blast rub 
ble and bombed buildings. His sets have the 
appearance of what the future must have 
looked like forty years ago, with pneumatic 
tubes and circular black and white 
telescreens.
‘1984” is by no means light entertainment 
it is a horror film in the purest sense. At 
times only the visual oddities sustain the au­
dience’s interest, and even the imagery loses 
its impact after the first hour. The film is 
however, a successful attempt to restore some 
of the power back into Orwell’s masterpiece 
By eliminating the satirical aspects of the 
book, Radford forces us to examine fully the 
implications of the film’s theme. He main 
tains this tone to the very end, where 
Winston finally utters his fatal “I love you" 
to the infamous face on the wall. We do not 
see Winston die, although we know he does 
(“the long-hoped-for bullet was entering his 
brain”). The film chooses not to complete 
the circle with Winston’s death, instead clos­
ing with Winston staring at the telescreen 
of Big Brother, ending, like the book, as it 
began: “It was a bright cold day in April, 
and the clocks were striking thirteen ,.
%
Every TI calculator comes with 
one extra number.
1-800-TI-CARES
When you buy a Texas 
Instruments calculator you 
don’t just buy a calculator, you 
buy Texas Instruments’ com­
mitment to quality.
It’s a commitment backed 
by a fully developed service 
network that includes the 
above toll-free number you can 
call from anyplace in the 
United States.
If you have any applications,
Cnpmghl© W85 Team Inxmraene tncotporasd
operations, or service questions, 
call us Monday thru Friday 
between 9 am and 4 pm CST, 
and we’ll be glad to help.
If your calculator needs 
repairing, we’ll direct you to 
one of our 46 conveniently 
located service centers for an 
immediate exchange. Under 
warranty, it’s free. If there’s no 
center near you, we’ll do it all 
by mail.
Of course, there’s just one 
catch. It has to be a Texas 
Instruments calculator. But 
then, if you’re as smart as we 
think you are, why wouldn’t 
it be?
Legts l ansdiupendsCreating useful products and services for you.

---------------------------------------------------

April 23, 1985—The Tartan—Page 7
Award winning animator 
honored at Circle Gallery
Chuck Jones, Academy Award winning 
animator whose career spans the entire 
history of this uniquely American art form, 
brings his drawings and original production 
cels of mad and zany cartoon notables, such 
aS pepe LePew, the Roadrunner, Wile E. 
Coyote and Bugs Bunny, to Circle Gallery, 
5416 Walnut Street, Thursday, May 9. He 
will be honored at a reception in the gallery 
from 7 to 9 p.m. The exhibition continues 
through June 8.
Jones arrived in Hollywood in 1912 when 
he was six months old. His earliest ex­
perience in the film industry was as a child 
extra in Mack Sennett comedies. His heroes 
were Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, 
and Mark Twain, all of whom heightened 
his appreciation of humor and influenced 
his work.
The Alchemist
continued from page 5
several times for no apparent reason. The 
production would have benefited by addi­
tional cutting. It would have been more ef­
fective, and not lost anything, if it were to 
run two hours instead of the three on the 
night I attended.
The Alchemist was an MFA project 
presented in the Studio.
Did you know...
that Jimi Hendrix was once in a band 
that featured Tommy Chong (of 
Cheech and Chong fame) on lead
vocals?
Following graduation from Chouinard 
Art Institute in Los Angeles, he got a job as 
a cel washer at Warner Brothers. He was 
promoted to inking and painting the cels, 
ran the camera, and did his own paste-up. 
In 1938, at the age of 25, he directed his first 
cartoon, “The Night Watchman.”
During the golden era of animation at 
Warner Brothers, he originated many of the 
cartoon characters which today are part of 
American comic folklore. He received his 
first Academy Award for “For Scentimental 
Reasons,” which introduced Pepe LePew, the 
lovesick skunk who always falls in love with 
cats who have stripes down their backs. Then 
there is the Roadrunner —the high-speed 
bird of perpetual motion —who is inevitably 
pursued, but never caught, by the crafty 
Wile E. Coyote.
responsible for Bugs Bunny, Porky Pig, Daf­
fy Duck, and other stars known throughout 
the world.
In the 1960’s he headed MGM’s Anima­
tion/Visual Arts department. He produced 
and directed the Oscar winning “The Dot 
and the Line” and the feature film, “The 
Phantom Tollbooth.”
Jones’ many animated specials for televi­
sion include “Rikki-Tikki-Tavi” for ABC and 
the holiday classic, “How the Grinch Stole 
Christmas,” presented annually for the past 
15 years by CBS. In 1964 he was named a 
vice-president of ABC TV with the job of 
improving children’s programming.
Film retrospectives of his work have been 
presented by the Museum of Modern Art, 
NYC; British Film Institute, London; 
Moscow Film Festival and the American 
Film Institute, Kennedy Center, 
Washington, D.C.
•QI»
Bugs Bunny is among the most popular of Chuck Jones’ creations.
SfUiTC IfCH DiO.C 
SLWN SL/,&FA 4W SL/,&FAE
“Are you OK to drive?” 
“What’s a few beers?”
D€HTPL
fìSSOCIfìT€S
Drs. Alex Lowy and I.B. Mandel
Cosmetic And Preventive Family Dentistry
3708 Fifth Avenue 
Medical Arts Bldg., Suite 519 Oakland
Days and Evenings 681-2115
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE 
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday 
7:00 - 10:00 PM
CALCULUS 
PRE, 1, II, III 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGLISH WRITING 
INTRO TO COMPUTING 
Sponsored by Student 
Counseling and Student Development 
Center. ____________
PH 225B
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
PH 125B
WeH 5415
Affairs and
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
s YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.

---------------------------------------------------

Tickets will be given out 2 per I.D. on 
Wednesday April 24 in the Skibo lobby. 
Raffles for T-shirts, posters and radios 
follow each showing.
Funded by Activities Fee
GENERAL ELECTRIC AND THE POWER OF MUSIC 
INVITE YOU TO EXPERIENCE...
2010
THE YEAR WE MAKE CONTACT
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer presents o PE ER
ROY SCHEIDER
-IS fiim
2C10 JOHN LITHGOW • HELEN M RREN • BOB BALABAf i • KEIH
by DAV D SHIRE vsuo! effects supervisor RICHARD EDLUND, A S C 
loosed on the nove! by ARTHUR C CARKt 
ner for Tne screen, proouceo and airecteo by Phf ER enKLwslc ¿r/Sjfe
PG PAflfNTAL GUIDANCE SUGGESTED ®,
soMt iiUTtmir wuy OVE R4 surr 0R BA NVR 4ODBSR4TC
t dPiofScuf­kh6w OR'GiNA. MOTION P'C'üf7£ SCORE AVAILA81E ©«?84 V*GV UA EN?f •'A.NMEN CC «S.£C-ON A & VI »ECORDS K3k P4cc1uu1c
FREE AB FILM APRIL 26 6,8:30,11 
in DH2210

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans trounce Hiram 
en route to PAC finals
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports EditorThe CMU track team won its 47th con­secutive track meet Saturday as freshman Jeff Luster and junior Mike Killen each won two races to lead the Tartans to a 113-27 vic­tory over the Hiram Terriers.Luster sprinted to victory in the 100 and 
200 meter races, while Killen doubled in the high and intermediate hurdles.The Tartans seem to be peaking just as the season begins to draw to a close. After a tough upcoming meet against Grove City, Tech shoots for its seventh straight PAC championship on May 2-3.Versus Hiram, many individuals had solid performances. Phil Gerard won the pole vault, showing depth in that event as CMU record holder Joe Honse stayed in Pittsburgh to push buggy for Pi Kappa Alpha. CMU
made a strong showing in the field events, including sophomore Mike Boyle won the shot put competition with a personal record of 43 feet seven inches.Coach Gary Meckley said he was “im­pressed with the running of Mark Sulecki,” who finished second behind Erik Lee in the 1500 meters. Sulecki also ran a 51.9 split in the mile relay, a winning team which includ­ed Chris Chen and Bob Digioia. Chen also finished second in the 400 meter run.
Meckley does not think that it will be easy to repeat as champs for the seventh straight year. “PAC will be tough. Some of the events are needed for points, but people are in­jured. You have to lose sometime, but I’ve got lots of confidence in the kids. They are terrific competitors — many that will get them through.
Tennis team looking forward 
to PA C championships
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor“You have to be hungry and play every match like it was the finals of the U.S. 
Open.”That is how tennis coach Peter Hawk described the intensity needed for the mens’ 
tennis team to continue on the blistering 
pace it has set for itself.
This week, the Tartans defeated previously 
unbeaten Grove City 5-4, and followed it up 
with an impressive 7-2 victory in a match the 
Tartans were expected to win.
The Tartan season has four matches left following yesterday’s match against the Thiel Tomcats. “I am an optimist.” Hawk is look­ing toward a 9-1 record and hoping to win the PAC championship. “I think Grove City was our hardest match. We’ll see. I think we could get it (the PAC title), but the players can’t get overconfident.” The team has been led by Swiss native Joel Claret and captain 
Steve Maybeck.The PAC championships will be held May 3-4, and the next CMU home match is April 30 against Westminster College.
tough loss to W&J
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports EditorThe CMU lacrosse club lost another tough game Sunday as the Washington and Jeffer­son Presidents defeated the Tartans 11-9.After the fun and excitement of Spring Carnival 1985, it was difficult to go out and play. Fatigue resulted in a listless effort on the part of CMU, who had defeated W&J earlier in the year.The Presidents scored goals on several man-up situations as a result of many Tar­tan penalties. “We had too many penalties. When you don’t move your feet well on defense, you tend to start using the stick more, and the refs called the penalties,’’said defenseman Dan Cohen.CMU was seriously undermanned for the contest, dressing just thirteen players, in­cluding a couple who hadn’t played in many games yet this season. One Tartan who sparkled was goalie Tom Gilmore. “Tom had a great game today, especially on one-on-one shots,” said Cohen. But the Tartans could not overcome a generally unrested team.Leading the scoring was a freshman Billy Heiser, who had two goals and four assists, and Merrice Spencer with two goals and one assist. Also scoring were Roy Teresky, John Rickert, Bruce Keilin, Scott Johnson and Rudy “Neil” Zung, who put in a strong performance.The lacrosse club goes into this Friday’s home game against Slippery Rock (4:00 p.m., IM Field) witah a 5-4 record which includes a 4-0 home field advantage. SRU is known for a rough style of play, but ac­cording to one Tartan player they have “average skills.”CMU will be working this week on offen­sive plays and clears, trouble spots of late. “We re looking forward to a nice win to close the season,” said Cohen.
Lacrosse suffers a
Goalie Tom Gilmore
***? '
had an excellent game against
photo by Liz Johnson
W&J, but unfortunately his twenty saves did not bring the Tartans victory.
A 5-4 win over Grove City has given the Tartans confidence

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—April 23, 1985
CMU to host national
fencing tournament
photo by Mike Pilewski
May 4-5 will be the dates of the mid-atlantic regional championships.
The mid-atlantic sectionals of the United 
States Fencing Association will be held May 
4th and 5th, here at Carnegie-Mellon 
University.
The USFA is the governing body of all 
fencing in the United States, including the 
U.S. Olympic team.
CMU fencers who have qualified for this 
meet are Liz Muskat in women’s foil com­
petition, Kevin Steele in men’s foil, Chris 
Cronin and Phil Verdieck in epee, and Eric 
Baldeschwieler, Eric Moore and Verdieck in
IM Report: Track 
annual banquet is
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Get out the running shoes folks, it’s time 
for the annual intramural track meet. The 
event will be held Friday, April 26 at 5:15 
on the CMU track in Tech Field. There is
There's no # 
doubt you’re going 
to make it in 
the real world, 
but what about yourcar?
sabre. Moore also qualified for the National 
competition.
Rob Kedain (men’s foil) qualified for the 
under-19 sectional tourney, to be held April 
27th and 28th in Harrisburg.
The mid-atlantic section covers Penn­
sylvania, Maryland, West Virginia and New 
Jersey.
The main gym as well as Thistle Hall will 
be used for the tournament. These facilities 
will be closed from Friday, May 3 at at 6:00 
p.m. until Sunday, May 5 at 10 p.m.
meet this Friday, 
Thursday night
an event for everybody, and all you have to 
do is show up and run.
The IM banquet is this Thursday, April 
25 in room 100 Skibo. RSVP at the IM Of­
fice. It is a dress-up affair that begins with 
ribs at 5:30 p.m. and dinner at 6:00. The 
IM man-of-the-year will be announced as 
well as next years president of the IM board.
Makeup and playoff schedules are out for 
minors softball, but are still needed for the 
intermediate and major leagues. ATO and 
TDP have still not paid their bowling fees, 
and Mr. Birdy asked that this is taken care 
of immediately.
Many other sports are finishing up seasons 
in the very near future. For up to the minute 
information, keep checking the intramural 
bulletin board.
The Need 
Continues
Famine is not a media event. 
It’s long-term suffering that 
doesn’t end when the cameras 
stop rolling.
It’s little children with 
bloated bellies and mothers 
too weak to respond to 
their cries.
It’s old people who will not 
age gracefully and die with 
dignity, but will expire 
hungry and in pain.
If you have already responded, 
with concern and with money, 
to the terrible disaster 
confronting 35,000,000 Africans, 
thank you.
But the need continues.
Your gift will make a difference. 
Please help.(ME
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER
CALL683 — 3555
• frVMIIYIAU IMVOIM.fr
¦ rm\o\ \i ixjt'KY
¦ I RIMIRAI IWV-IKIAI IMfrfrNNfr
MURRAY A. FELDERAl IIMtXfr.t VI I A»
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND _____
It’s people in Ethiopia, 
Mauritania, Chad, Niger, 
Kenya, Mali, Somalia, 
Mozambique and Sudan who 
need your help.
Ford and Lincoln-Mercury have 
MOO for graduating seniors toward the 
purchase of selected cars and trucks.
Ford Motor Credit also has preapproved credit for qualified graduating seniors. Offers end August 15,1985. For more information call Ford College Graduate 
Purchase Program Headquarters at 1-800-321-1536.
FORD • UNCOLN • MERCURY

---------------------------------------------------

Kill
Kill
April 23, 1985—The Tartan—Page 11
Attention Photographers
B&W Fiber Paper 
Available at 
' discount price 
call
The Darkroom 
232 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
261-6056
THIS BUD'S 
FOR you:
BUDWE1SER«*KING Of BEERS ••ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC *ST LOUIS
Nobody knows better 
than we do how much help 
and understanding is needed 
for the family of a cancer 
patient. The patient’s spouse is 
under tremendous stress, and 
the children are often forgot­
ten or just plain left out. That’s 
why our service and rehabili­
tation programs emphasize the 
whole family, not just the cancer 
patient.
We run local programs 
nationwide with millions of 
volunteers whose lives have 
been touched by family mem­
bers or friends with cancer or 
who themselves are recovered 
cancer patients. That’s what makes 
the American Cancer Society 
one of the largest, best motivated 
and most caring of any health 
organization in the country'.
Among our regular ser­
vices we provide information 
and guidance to patients and 
families, transport patients to 
and from treatment, supply 
home care items and assist 
patients in their return tc> 
everyday life.
Life is what concerns us.
The life of cancer patients.
The lives of their families. So 
you can see we are even more 
than the research organization 
we are so well known to be.
^AMERICAN CANCER SOŒTY*
THIS SBUD' DFORyIouR': US U BuoMID S'yêID'.
When someone 
in your ^ "
gets cancer, 
everyone 
In your f 
needs help.
photo by Colin Rafferty
A future Pirate joins in the celebration of 
Carnival time. See special carnival section 
for more.
photo by Erik Horn
Steve Desrochers was the maskless goalie for the CMU Hockey Club’s booth during 
Spring Carnival 1985.

---------------------------------------------------

The Yearbooks are
coming!
The Yearbooks are
coming!
•Pick up your pre-ordered book 
•Buy a yearbook for just eighteen 
dollars
Starting Monday, April 29 in Skibo
Gray Matter.
* ’
funded by activities fee
Don't leave school without it

---------------------------------------------------

JUST __
05be,bpv.T
• 1*«S COLUMBIA PICTURES INDUSTRIES INC ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
To prove she can write with as much macho as any male, gorgeous Terry Griffith enters 
ugh school newspaper contest — as a boy.
The shattering ®jfect on her social life provides the fun in Columbia Pictures’ new 
medy JUST ONE OF THE GUYS.
Inspired by Joyce Hyser s performance in the role reversing title role, pictured below 
eight other actresses who switched sexes on screen. We’ve named each movie. How 
ny stars . . . past and present. . . can you name?
LIVING DANGEROUSLY 
1_______________________________
ATTENTION 
August and December Grads 
in Electrics Engineering, Computer Science, 
Mathematics, and Slavic,
Near Eastern or Asian Languages
The 
National Security Agency 
has professional 
career opportunities 
for you.
Electrical Engineers: Work with a team of dedicated professionals developing advanced communication security and foreign signals intelligence 
collection and processing systems. From antenna and receiver under computer control through sophisticated software demodulation and worldwide inter­
computer networks into advanced analytic data bases. Specialize in-depth, or span the complete range of exotic electronic information technology from 
propagation medium to target analyst. RF, microwave, millimeter wave, and optical system development; complete microelectronic design, fabrication, 
packaging, and test facilities. Opportunities ranging from fundamental research through advanced development, small to large system design and prototype 
development, developmental test and evaluation, field installation, and operational support. Unparalleled variety, challenge, and internal mobility for 
maximum professional development and satisfaction.
Candidates with a 2.5 or above GPA are preferred.
Computer Scientists: Our computer scientists work with electrical engineers and mathematicians across the frontier of finite state machine develop­
ment and applications. Microprocessor applications, massively parallel architecture development, hyperfast numeric algorithm development, unique bit-slice 
based subsystem applications, knowledge-based systems, and every language from microprocessor machine code through Ada.
Candidates with a 3 0 or above GPA are preferred.
Mathematicians: Mathematicians at NSA use advanced concepts to solve cryptologic problems and to help develop and evaluate code and cipher 
systems. The unique nature of our cryptologic mission gives vitally important practical applications to mathematical concepts usually considered purely 
theoretical.
Candidates with a 3.0 or above GPA are preferred.
Language Specialists: If you are proficient in a modem Slavic, Near Eastern or Asian language, we can provide career challenges that make full use of 
your language skills. You will be using the language constantly, exploring its nuances in depth. Few careers, even in academia, put your language skills to 
more steady and demanding use.
Candidates with a 2.5 or above GPA are preferred.
Salaries are competitive with private industry and for most of these positions, start in the mid-to-upper 20’s for qualified candidates. Full federal fringe 
benefits apply. Entry positions are located in suburban Maryland, midway between Baltimore and Washington, D C.
For additional information, contact your Career Development Center.
Interested individuals should send a detailed resume to:
National Security Agency 
ATTN: M322 (AD)
Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Is Required.
EASTER PARADE3..______
^ you can correctly name each ac- 
|ress, submit your entries to Skibo In- 
0 Desk do Tartan by Thursday, April 
^ at 4:00 pm. You may win a t-shirt, 
P°ster or movie pass. Good luck!

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Buggy troubles
Another Spring Carnival has zoomed by us like a buggy 
through the chute. Congratulations are in order for all the 
people who made Carnival the great success that it was: the 
Carnival Committee, the fraternal and independent organiza­
tions who built booths and buggies, and everyone else who 
permitted the school to have a good time for a few days.
But a condemnation goes to the party who dumped an oil 
slick onto the buggy course, delaying the Friday races for an 
hour and a half. The Sweepstakes Committee had to deal 
with enough already without such additional headaches.
The oil incident was the only real event during Buggy which 
the Committee could not foresee. A lot of problems, however, 
could have been prevented if the Committee had been bet­
ter organized. It’s unfair to blame this year’s Committee for 
sins which every Committee in the past has done, but no ex­
cuse will save next year’s Committee if they don’t make 
necessary improvements in their organizational structure.
The fundamental problem with Sweepstakes is twofold: 
many people don’t know what’s going on, and information 
isn’t disseminated properly. For example, Luan Denny, this 
year’s Sweepstakes Chairman, found herself incredibly busy 
during the race days, having to be everywhere at once, and 
having to make decisions under pressure. To ease the difficulty 
of running the day, the Chairman should appoint two to four 
people to act in her place at areas like the Chute and the 
starting line when she can’t be there; they could keep in touch 
through a walkie-talkie link.
The only other people who are aware of everything that’s 
happening are the members of WRCT and the Radio Club, 
who maintain constant radio links with their personnel. But 
there is little to no coordination between the two groups and 
the Sweepstakes Committee; the result is that the radio groups 
often must make decisions for which they’re not supposed to 
be responsible. The Radio Club, which maintains nine links 
around the course, found out that there was a car on the 
course two minutes before a scheduled heat; the RC member 
at the starting line had to stop the race only at the last possi­
ble moment: 15 seconds before race time. A car on the course 
is an example of something the Chairman should know im­
mediately upon its occurrence. The Radio Club’s duties are 
to watch the course and report problems — not to solve them.
In the case of WRCT, which maintains three links as well 
as the commentator in the lead car, its responsibility is to 
report on the action, but not to make official public-address 
announcements or be the only source of statistics and infor­
mation. Although the public-address system which WRCT 
routes through its own speakers works fine and does not in­
terfere with the on-air broadcast, the Committee should have 
a person officially designated as the PA announcer, who an­
nounces data on present and upcoming heats, pages people 
and requests bystander? to stay off .the course. This duty has 
carelessly been left to the sole discretion of the WRCT Sports 
Team; although the broadcasters did a fair job of “calling 
it as they saw it”, they had the potential to make mistakes 
over the air because they were not officially informed of all 
proceedings. The functions of public address and commen­
tating should be kept separate from each other.
If the groups with responsibilities were confused, imagine 
the plight of the average spectator. Many of the people in 
attendance on “Buggy Friday” were new to the event — one- 
quarter of the undergraduate spectators were freshmen. Their 
only sources of buggy information that day were WRCT and 
the Sweepstakes 1985 booklet, a useless, overpriced pamphlet 
which said virtually nothing. In fact, the only helpful features 
of the booklet were the map of the course and the schedule 
of Carnival events, both of those could be obtained free 
elsewhere, and did not merit a $1.25 cover price. The booklet 
should contain the rules of buggy: safety, design, racing, 
qualifying and being disqualified; buggy history, tentative 
lists of buggies, push teams and drivers, statistics of buggies 
from years gone by, and so on.
Another good way to tell people what’s going on whould 
be through a scoreboard mounted somewhere around Hill 
2, which would be regularly updated with current informa­
tion on the race in progress, changes in participants, fastest 
times of the day, and other data.
Public knowledge of the location of the Sweepstakes Chair­
man, an official public-address announcer, a better buggy 
book and a scoreboard would go a long way toward solving 
the problems of Buggy Day. A careful rethinking of the tasks 
of Buggy is of fundamental importance to the Sweepstakes 
and Spring Carnival organization.
rmc'S,
\r '¦
Letters:
Objections to past SFC article
Editor:
We object to the news article 
called “Campus group opposes in­
fringements” in the last Tartan. 
This article presented as facts 
many opinions of either the 
author or the campus group, 
Students for Choice. The follow­
ing examples are quoted verbatim 
from the article:
“The emphasis on the 
abortion issue, as a rallying 
point, was picked by the 
SFC group not only because 
it directly violates specific 
ammendments embodied in 
the Bill of Rights and other 
Constitutional amendments, 
but because an anti­
abortion law is inherently 
contrary to the philosophy of 
the Bill of Rights. A law 
such as the proposed anti- 
abortion amendment 
would, in effect, be tanta­
mount to telling women that 
they have no right, no con­
trol over their own bodies.” 
Aside from preventing the 
passage of an anti-abortion
amendment that is nothing 
short of the efforts of a pas­
sionate, albeit radical and 
misinformed, minority 
fringe, the SFC plans to ad­
dress the prerogatives of its 
members.”
We could not have objectd the 
the publishing of these opinions 
as opinions; if they had been 
quoted or labelled as the opinion 
of the author or of the SFC we 
would have accepted them as 
such. For example, the story 
might have said that the SFC feels 
that the anti-abortion law is the 
“effort of a passionate, albeit, 
misinformed...”
Instead the statements were 
published as newsworthy facts. 
We believe that the editor should 
have relegated this article to the 
opinions page, and that in accep­
ting this article as a “special to the 
Tartan”, she had the responsibili­
ty to verify that its entire content 
was news. We also believe that the 
reporter wrote irresponsibly and 
unprofessionally when he 
reported these opinions as facts.
We believe that as a news article 
this piece should be retracted. 
? Sarah duBell
Felicia Thibeault 
Wayne Mesard 
Rhonda Peterson 
Sheila DeNe 
Joe Murphy 
Ben Martin 
Katie O’Hara 
Lori Grab« 
Meg Halter 
Mark Marlett 
David Walruth 
Cathy Conlin 
Bill Shea 
Paco Ruii 
Brian Saul 
Eric Brown 
Chris Keane
(Editor’s Note: We wish to
apologize for the incorrect handl­
ing of the article in last week's 
issue. The piece should etthfl 
have been edited appropriate) 
enough for the News section, 0f 
labeled as an "analysis' in 
another section such as Feature 
or Opinion.)
Tuition vs. financial aid: no contest
Editor:
I had to laugh when I read the 
front page of the April 16th Tar­
tan. “Undergraduate tuition for 
the 1986-87 academic year will be 
$10,250 .. . the Tuition Commit­
tee also made several further 
recommendations: that the
University continue its commit­
ment to admission regardless of 
financial need.” I have one ques­
tion — what good is admission to 
a student with financial need if
he/she cannot afford to go to 
CMU?
I’m a senior. Since I’ve been 
here, tuition has gone up an 
average of $1000 per year while 
my financial aid from CMU has 
gone up an average of $373 per 
year. Does this sound like helping 
those with financial need?
I believe that I’ve received a 
good education during my four 
years here, and I’ve been suc­
cessful in my academic pursuits.
However, if I were presently 
senior in high school applyin&t0 
colleges, I would not be able toat 
tend CMU because at the present 
cost my family cannot affordt0 
pay for four years here. I n<f 
think it is fair that only the nc 
be entitled to a good education 
apparently the Tuition Com1111 
tee disagrees with me.
Kathleen A. R°ma^ 
Applied

---------------------------------------------------

April 23, 1986—The Tartan—Page 15
More Letters:
Sorority members question review of Greek Sing
,ditor:
We are writing in response to the extended 
eview of Greek Sing perpetrated by Ric 
ledrow which appeared in the March 13 
issue. Specifically, we would like to address
his marvelous simulation of factual informa­
tion. He claims that “Theta’s selections .. . 
ran away with first this year, and it’s no 
wonder: Theta hired a professional to coach
them.” My question: Where does Mr. 
Medrow get his information? If his sources 
are reliable, we advise that he contact 
Christine Hayes, and inform her that one
"un it i wai set k stor \m iw&ab&tosotö amt m tu. msiêr êm k wm. soi cani* w m® tô pw off kfiotJ"
raduating writing major offers long
“CMU: The Professional Choice.“ The 
notto sounded good when I applied here, 
nd it was a major factor in my coming here, 
wanted to be a writer and to be able to get 
job after four years. Now, while most of 
iy classmates are weighing job offers, I am 
crambling for financial aid. Why? I’m go- 
*g to graduate school.
No one could have convinced me three 
ears ago that I would even be considering 
his madness. I was bound and determined 
! get a “useful” degree. Intending to major 
1 Professional and Creative Writing, I took 
iy Core courses and started the courses in 
*y major ahead of schedule. But then I 
egan to have my doubts. My first creative 
ntmg course was an eye-opener: I realiz- 
d that I’d never written more than two 
ages of fiction at a time, and I simply wasn’t 
ery good at it. When it came time to 
edare my major, I admitted to myself that 
eative wndng would have to remain a hob- 
y * JUst wasn’t committed to it. At the same 
e’ I had taken a couple of history courses 
utside the Core which I had enjoyed and 
0ne WeH in. Realizing that the combina- 
°n might be interesting, I declared my ma- 
r as Professional Writing and History. 
Junior year, I found myself increasingly 
atisfied with the writing program. Not
classes were bad; I learned a greateai f °°m some of my professors, and I’m 
W indebted to them. In other courses, 
e Premise was that the students would all 
w°rking in corporations in a couple of 
ars-1 felt as if I was in trade school. I also 
w[he liberal arts” courses —literature in 
^cular—get shafted in favor of courses
Viewpoint: Judy Merrill
Phasilzing marketable skills. 1 wondered
had happened to the goal of being a 
bounded person.”
started having contact with writing ma-
jors who were looking for jobs. They were 
interviewing with IBM, AT&T and other ma­
jor corporations, looking for technical 
writing jobs. Others were going into public 
relations; a few landed jobs in publishing 
and journalism. Putting myself into those 
student’s shoes, I couldn’t see myself enjoy­
ing the work. I’m the type of person who 
likes to throw herself into the work; how 
could I become committed to those jobs? 
They would only be a paycheck to me.
I found myself liking most of my history 
courses immensely. It was exciting to par­
ticipate in a class where students were en­
couraged to debate the professor on his or 
her interpretation of history. Here, ideas 
were treated as valuable; it didn’t matter 
that your knowledge of Renaissance France 
or thè Vietnam War wasn’t “marketable.” 
Most of the professors had made a committ­
ment to open-minded inquiry and seemed 
to enjoy talking with their students. (The 
same holds true for my favorite English pro­
fessors.) The idea that I, too, might stand 
in front of a classroom someday and be able 
to research topics that interest me became 
attractive.
Of course, I received all the well- 
intentioned warnings: graduate school is a 
huge financial burden, there might not be 
any jobs when you get out, etc., etc. I 
thought long and hard before deciding that 
this would be the right path for me. I need 
a job that I can love; I am willing to take 
the risks —nothing ventured nothing gain­
ed. Oddly enough, many of my friends are 
also going into some sort of graduate pro­
gram. Maybe I know a lot of oddballs at
CMU, or something about CMU makes 
students feel they still need an education.
The moral of this story? My biggest piece 
of advice is that you should never narrow 
your options too soon—you never know 
when you’ll stumble over something 
fascinating. I’d also urge you not to take 
resume-building and market skills too 
seriously. Becoming a “professional” doesn’t 
mean you have to limit yourself to that one 
goal. Don’t exclude your avocations from 
your college career—they make life much 
more pleasant. (For example, I’m still 
writing poetry even though I know I’m not 
good at it and my work probably won’t be 
published.) To me, the most interesting peo­
ple are those who are a fanatical about foot­
ball as they are about getting a summer in­
ternship, who love jazz as much as they do 
an efficient computer program. Hold on to
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beg. ning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar­
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
of the primary rules of Greek Sing has been 
broken. However, as Mr. Medrow has not 
yet done so, we seriously question the 
credibility of your writer’s claims.
Medrow begins the article by hinting at 
the true purpose of Greek Sing. The even­
ing is intended to be a philanthropic effort 
for a deserving cause. This year, the 
beneficiaries were the (Alzheimer’s founda­
tion?) The emphasis should be on participa­
tion, not competition. Mr. Medrow has 
lowered a fine effort to the level of “The 
Gong Show” by ranking each group’s show 
in such a manner.
If Mr. Medrow was going to undertake 
such a detailed review, he should have been 
prepared to be objective enough to include 
all groups. In omitting Chi Omega, he in­
vites questions regarding his objectivity. 
What’s the matter, Ric, couldn’t you find 
anything negative to say about Kappa Alpha 
Theta that could be supported? Medrow has 
complimented the sisters and pledges of 
Kappa Alpha Theta by stating that they has 
professional help, for their show seemed to 
be too polished to have been coahced by the 
sisters themselves. However, he owes them 
a very sincere apology for his libelous 
statements, and The Tartan readers and 
staff an assurance that he will not again 
abuse his creative resources.
Melanie K. Patrick 
Jennifer A. Cromwell 
Amy P. Miller
(Note: We, the signers of this letter, are members of a sorority other than Kappa Alpha Theta.)
term advice
the interests that make you unique; you’ll be a better professional for it.
Judy Merrill is a senior in History and Pro­
fessional Writing, a Contributing Editor to Dossier and The Tartan, and will be atten­
ding University of Michigan in the fall.
TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief.................................Steve Volan
Managing Editor....................Mike Pilewski
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor...........................................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor..........................Al Datri
Sports Editor...................................Chris Lewis
Photo Assignment Editor Olve Peersen 
Photo Production Editor .. Dan Pellish
ACME Editor.............................Mohan Embar
Dossier Editor ........................Michele Keane
Ad Manager ..............................Katrin Wesner
Art Manager..............................Mike Sussman
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager_____Jill Clelland
Asst. Features Editor .Kathy Murtaugh 
Asst. Sports Editor .. Bonnie Jacobson 
Asst. Art Manager.................Mark Kissner
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Neil 
Greenblum, Judy Merrill, Bonnie Topf, 
Pauline Wen
Copyright © 1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. 24 hour phone, 
(412) 578-2111. Mailing address: Skibo 103, 
Student Activities, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

ANMOOMCIM6 ! 
ANN ou Mill M6i 
43 si OOM6IN6 ! 
AMM0UMC/M6 ! 
AMMOUNClNb ! 
ANiJOUMClMó ! 
4CCdv3oPrCy t 
4CCd7CPoCG t 
4CCgFiCxsrCG t 
4CCd-“CICy 
4pCgvCPrCG t 
4CCd7C t
A^OunJC In6 ) 
At^^OONClNó ! 
ANOUN£/Nb ! 
ANN0UNC/N6 ! 
ANN OcJNCIMÒ !
Kpa0v3-lK“G t
4CC’dCPlCG t 
4CCgm” jd jE t
SPACIOUS
totidpends
FOR.
FALL, (3BS 
ONE MONTH
SOyy OyBMH 0
* SPECIAL SKoMfK LEASE
(A06.i985Luq—“H“6H MAY,/9g&)
* E6NTAL KATES FRO^ <2>MLY
^(39,09 Pee AaLMcNTfl
*om£ doFae Faee rcnt Ç>
You L6A56 PlU0/2- TOJULi \,0&5 
A SPA£1005> 3 B£DB££W\ AP75.
* io M/MOT^ WAZX 7Z> C4MP05
* FULL 24 HC. tAAlhXTtbV+lCE
* IAUM OC.Y PA£I LlTiBS
* CURMISHeO OR UHFU/2N15H£D
&\T£3 ACZOtZ&^&L'i
& HeAT I^CLUPED /M (2.er<T
CALL TODAY
682-7010
ISRAEL INDEPENDENCE DAY
mrcnxyn cn
HAIE 
CLUIEL&
\*UNICHE HaVIIK designs ' ** ¦ 
ECK ’HOHEN & MEN
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)
i
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
COLOR
Vte never met a head 
we didn't like
* »." 4 i 1 
ANY M IJVM -I
H7 IIIIN 1 4 < 14 >N
</ll1AII406 S. CRAIG ST. 
OAKLAND
11 1 V N\1 M S
. . .WIRH UBFMFgI'S RF WIMM RFg'yS, 
RH' gy'UR Am'yIDUO HumFyISR.
TH' BFIOR w''y' RyyIOg RF mUk', 
Ff DFuyS', IS RHUR mUOy HUIy- 
DuRR'yS FOMy S'' HUIy wH'O RH'y 
MFFk UR U H'U:.
AR Gy'UR "X", w' MFFk UR RH' 
wHFM' H'U: US w'MM US RH' HUIy. 
W' UMSF MISR'O RF wHUR RH' H'U: 
SUyS, HFw H' Fy SH' BIDRuy'S HIm-
Mon, Tues, Wed 10—7 
Thurs, Fri 10—9 
Sat 9—6
S'Mf Fy H'yS'Mf UfR'y RH' HUIyDuR.
Ouy HUIyDuRR'yS Uy' RyUIO': RF BuR 
IR UMM RFg'RH'y ... SF RHUR RH' 
fIOUM ByF:uDR IS mFy' RHUO juSR UO 
'xUmBM' Ff 'xB'yR HUIyDuRRIOg . • 
. ouR U B'yf'DR y'By'S'ORURIFO Ff 
wHF yFu wUOR RF o'.
Eê'yy H'U:'S U wIOO'y, wH'O IR 
H'U:S fFy. . .
Cd K&&0r3ba,3b %
iWEcnrroits,PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
687-3500
NÒ APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Stree
Across the street 
the Oakland Post
fro)
off*

---------------------------------------------------

April 23, 1985—The Tartan—Page 17
Registrar’s
Calendar
|yVpril 24-25 Fall 1985 Pre-regist ration 
April 30 Last day of classes
May 1-2 Reading days
Ijyfay 3, 6-10 Final exams
May 13 Commencement
May 14 First summer session begins
May 17 Spring 1985 grades mailed to students
May 27 Memorial Day; no classes
June 28 First summer session ends; Fall semester bills mailed
July 1 Second summer session begins
July 4 Independence Day; no classes
July 15 Last day before Enrollment to pre-register for Fall 1985 
August 2 Payment deadline for Fall semester bill
August 16 Second summer session ends; Fall 1985 ID stickers
mailed to those enrolled by mail; Enrollment instruc­
tions mailed to those not enrolled by mail 
August 26 Undergraduate Enrollment Day for those not enrolled 
by mail
August 27 Fall 1985 classes begin on Monday schedule
Registration announced
CMU Israel Fest set for 25th
By PATRICIA FALL
Special to the Tartan 
At a time when countries on the other side 
of the world are at war, and conflict con­
tinues to battle between the superpowers, it 
is comforting to find a country in rejoice over 
the coming of its independence 
— a country whose people have 
strived for years to strengthen 
and protect that fragile balance 
| we call ‘peace’.
On April 25th, Israel will celebrate its 
37th Birthday as an Independent State. 
Jewish communities the world over will re­
joice the transformation of Israel from a 
1 stateless scattered people clinging to an age- 
old vision of the return of their homeland, 
to an independent state, its doors open to
iVice and Virtue
STEVE SCHLICK and ERIC
SOLOMON
| Special to The Tartan
A new programming environment for the 
Macintosh for use in beginning level com­
puter courses is being developed by the Com­
puter Science departments MacGnome pro­
ject group.
Currently, students in 100-level computing 
courses use the EDU system computers, 
which are notorious for “slowing down” 
whenever a large number of people use 
them. By using 512K Macintoshes, students 
will not face that problem, since each per- 
I son will have a computer devoted to himself.
In addition, certain features of the Mac 
will be utilized to create an environment that 
I is more user-friendly than that of the EDUs.
The target date for completion of the en­
vironment software, named Genie, is 
(January 1986.
According to project coordinator Rob 
jChandhok, Genie will be a fully integrated 
I Programming environment. A “fully in­
tegrated environment” means that all of the 
I traditional tools used for programming —| editor, linker, compiler, and debugger — are 
I connected such that the user sees them as 
I a single program. The purpose of doing so 
|ls t0 spare the user from having to learn 
I system details, thus freeing him or her to in- 
| estigate the fundamentals of programming.
h Genie, editing will be structure - 
|°riented. In contrast to text editors, which 
|are document-oriented, structure editors 
jallow the user to easily design and modify 
structure of a program. An example of 
|such an editor is ALOE (A Language 
I r‘ented Editor), but as Chandhok pointed 
|°Ut’ The user interface on the Macintosh 
| 11 a^°w us to do much more than what is 
Possible on the EDUs.”
For example, multiple windows will be us- 
| So that the user can view more than one 
r°cedure at a time. And the mouse on the 
lac>ntosh will let the user move more quick-|{y *.L *rough a program than with cursor keys, 
a. andhok also mentioned that 
1 n°me is one of the largest projects of 
lnd for the Macintosh in the country. 
er universities, such as Dartmouth and 
¦ fVard, have expressed interest in using 
n,e for their beginning Pascal courses.
welcome and unite its sons and daughters.
In the Pittsburgh area this festive occa­
sion will be clelbrated at Carnegie-Mellon 
University on Thursday April 25th, outside 
Skibo, from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. In ad­
dition to Israeli music and dancing, 
homemade falafel and cold drinks will be 
served.
Everyone is welcome to come and join 
with us in the rejoicing of Israel — a Festival 
of Independence.
Patricia Fall is a member of the Israel Ac­
tion Committee.
continued from page 1
fall, any student who was registered and 
whose bill was fully paid (or had made 
special arrangements with the university) 
was considered enrolled.
“As a result, the group of students who fell 
outside those boundaries (usually those who 
were registered but unpaid) were not on class 
lists, not receiving midterm or final grades, 
even though thev were attending classes. We 
couldn’t keep track of these students,” 
Checca revealed.
'‘In the fall, registered students unable to 
pay their bill will be considered students on 
this campus if they show up on Enrollment 
Day. Unlike before, they will be on class lists 
and receive midterm grades. They will owe 
the institution their outstanding balance.
Checca said the Registrar’s office will now 
be able to find these students, contact them, 
and help them make arrangements. “Our 
goal is to keep track of the students who are
not fully paid. Hopefully, it will help us deal 
with students who have legitimate financial 
difficulties.”
“Under the old method, you were wasting 
your time if you didn’t pay. An unenrolled 
student would go to class for a proportion 
of the semester and use university services, 
thereby preventing the university from put­
ting someone else there. Eventually, the stu­
dent would have to leave campus. There 
were no winners.”
Winning the enrollment game, however, 
is not difficult. Checca advises students to 
complete registration by taking advantage 
of tomorrow and Thursday’s preregistration 
“to avoid the greatest number of problems 
and frustrations”.
Turning in the R3D form with correct 
demographic data is very important, 
especially addresses. Enrolling on time will 
also prevent hassle. “The system is best when 
everyone complies,” Checca remarked.
Statistical and Reporting Software 
for IBM PC/XT and AT*
SPSS/PC is the most comprehensive statistical 
package available for performing simple or complex 
tasks, regardless of data size. It maintains feature 
and language compatibility with mainframe SPSS,® 
while optimizing for the PC environment.
Designed to maximize your productivity, SPSS/PC 
offers three-letter truncation of commands; the ability to 
batch process commands; save and enter commands 
in groups; receive on-line help; redirect input and output 
to screen, disk and/or printers and more.
Statistics range from simple descriptive to complex 
multivariate, including Multiple Regression, ANOVA, 
Factor and Cluster analysis. Loglinear and nonpara- 
metric procedures are also included.
Simple facilities allow transfer of files between 
SPSS/PC and programs like Lotus 1-2-3, dBase II and 
SAS. A complete Report Writer, plotting facilities 
and communications program for mainframes round 
out a fully integrated product.
For more information, contact our Marketing 
Department at:
SPSS Inc., 444 N. Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, IL 60611. 312 '329-3500.
In Europe: SPSS Benelux B.V., P.O. Box 115,
4200 AC Gorinchem, The Netherlands.
Phone: +31183036711. TWX: 21019.
VISA, MasterCard and American Express accepted.
PRODUCTIVITY RAISED TO THE HIGHEST POWER*
.„poc/pp mns on the IBM PC/XT with 320K memory and a hard disk, and IBM PC/AT with hard disk An 8087 co-processor is recommended Contact SPSS Inc tor other ^nmn.it#»rs IBM PC/XT and PC/AT are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation dBase II is a trademark of Ashton Tate 1-2-3 is a trademark of Lotus Development Corporation SAS is a registered trademark of SAS Institute, Inc SPSS and SPSS/PC are trademarks of SPSS Inc tor its proprietary computer software
c Copyright 1985, SPSS Inc

---------------------------------------------------

¦ universityuasdnngservice¿Menu
APRIL 22 -»28
QL
kiltie cafe
La sag 11a
Vegetarian Lasa^na 
Baked Fish Supreme
Hamburger Steak/Gravy 
Baked Ham
Monteray Vegetable Bake
Baked Pork Chops 
Braised Beef Cubes 
Spinach 'Iarl
Turkey/Dressing 
Knock worst/Kraut 
Ratatouille
Salisbury Steak 
Batterdip Haddock
Vegetable Rice Bake
Chicken Pot Pie 
Tacos
Vegetarian Tacos
Fried Chicken 
Quiche Lorraine 
Lentil Barley Stew
EVENING ^
Veal Parmesan ^
Hamburger Stroganoff 
Spinach Tart
Grilled Ham 
Chicken Pot Pie 
Ratalouille
Fried Chicken 
Pork Tenderloin 
Cheese Fondue
Baked Stuffed Fish 
Braised Beef Cubes 
Califlower Marranca
Chicken Ambassador 
Shr i m p&Sea f ood 
Roast Beef Au Jus 
Spinach Souffle
Everyday 
Carved Beef or Turkey
Subject To Change
SUMM.02. R6MTA LS \ 
SütAtAEß- Í2.ÉTMTA L-S | 
^ÜMMÖ2. iZShXTAsLS ! 
5üMM02_ RJEMTAJLS ! 
5üMM^ L'S
^ummö2. eeMt4V\L
.5UMM6/2. Ç>et4V\LS 
.5UMMÉÆ. ZmTAJLS 
30
^OhAtAEtZ. £EHV\LS
SOt4>Ae Q~ ^6KTTAL S 
TartnSfwie 2&\T?\LS [ 
SütAbKEß- iuVBfsaT !
2. 0fMT>V.5 ( 
¿ÜMMÉ’/Z. R£NTA]L¿ ! 
âÜMMÊCt (26N7ALS *
5üMM£ÄL shRgB/'CT ! 
SütAfAEO- 1
m
SUMMER-
HOUSING
HAMPSHIEFHALL
400 CENTER AVENUE
£ 5HOR.T T€PJ^\ opt/oM 
(juné- i,|98S~CMUop
* ZEMT/KL. RATef» F¡ZPt*\ <3Mc/
^(oo.oo pea. weeu. 
$22ó,oo F&tZ. rAO*m-\
* MAID i UUEhi AYAJ¿A£¿'
* ALU UTILI Tl Et> \ rtCLUDEJ)
*SLeeP/M6 FUM>rAS 
XEFFlCietJO/ A0A<2.7M€NT3
* |0 tAlbAUTE W/U&TO &fl[PU5
* FULL Z4 H^M^NTÉNANC€
* ALL UNITS PU&N/SMED
* 6AP-A6GT PARKJM6
•JK LAOMpCLV FA:/ lit/65 
CALL TODAY68 2- 7010
Oil *7*2921CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A
Student Aid.
Microsoft offers Macintosh1 
owners all the answers to all 
your final tribulations. Every' 
thing you’ve ever wanted.
For less.
Word File* Chart*
Multiplan! BASIC
All at great student discounts.
Microsoft* Word doesn’t limit you to 10 or even 
50 pages, so it’s perfect for long term papers. It 
runs letter quality printers and works with your 
existing MacWrite™ files (so you don’t lose any of 
your work). Microsoft File lets you organize any infor- 
mation from research notes to record collections. 
Microsoft Chart punctuates any statistic-filled report 
by letting you illustrate your point, graphically For 
accounting or finance, Microsoft Multiplan is the 
spreadsheet for the Macintosh. And with Microsoft 
BASIC, you can write your own programs.
Max your maion 
Word, File, Chart and Multiplan work together, 
so you can easily move information back and
forth between them. And all use the same 
command structure.That means you can 
save valuable learning time.
And each works on the 128K or 512K 
Macintosh. Not to mention that we’ve 
written more programs for Mac, so
nobody knows MICROSOFT.
.MaC better The High Performance Software
than us. No other company’s soft' 
ware can give you all this.
So if you want to be a more productive student, 
take Mac to the max. Check out Microsoft at your 
campus store. Or call (800) 426-9400, in Washington 
State, call (206) 828-8088 for more information.
Microsoft and Muitiplan arc registered trademarks and The High Performance Software is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation MacWrite is a trademark and Macintosh is a tr;idemark licensed to Apple Computer. Inc

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Institute of Nuclear Power Operations has 
awarded a fellowship in health physics to the 
University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Radiation health for the 1985-86 academic 
year. Fellowship offered to a master’s level 
student intending to pursue a career in 
power generation health physics. Stipend of 
$6,500 and $2,500 educational allowance. 
For more information, contact: Dr. Joseph
A. Watson, A512 Crabtree Hall, Graduate 
School of Public Health, University of Pitt­
sburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, 624-2732.
Applications for the Carnegie Awards Solo 
Competition are available to musicians who 
want the opportunity to experience the audi­
tion process, compete against other musi­
cians of the same age, and have their per­
formances critiqued by professional musi­
cians. For more information call x2387.
Off Center Theater will accept interns to 
work in its street theater program this sum­
mer. Cost is $1000. For more information 
call 212-929-8299 or write OFF CENTER 
THEATER, INC., 436 West 18th Street, 
New York, NY 10011.
Silly Wizard, Scotland’s finest traditional 
band, is embarking on a reunion concert 
tour of the States and will be in Pittsburgh 
at Graffiti, 4615 Baum Blvd, 8 p.m. on 
Thursday, May 2. For more information, 
call x2496.
The National Guitar Summer Workshop
presents Master Workshops during its se­
cond summer session. Intermediate and ad­
vanced classes offered in rock, classical, jazz, 
fingerpicking, bluegrass, and bass. In ad­
dition classes in songwriting, improvisation, 
theory, sight reading, recording techniques, 
arranging and composition are offered. For 
brochures and information contact: Mr. 
David Smoliar, Director, NGSW, Box 222, 
Lakeside, CT 06578 or call (203)567-8529.
Classifieds
Modern, furnished, 1 bedroom apartment 
in Shadyside for sublet in July and August. 
Call 683-3948.
Spring/Summer Sublet: Furnished contem­
porary apartment, one large bedroom, kit­
chen, security, laundry, w/w carpeting, air- 
conditioning included call 681-8674.
Osborne I, SD, w/modem, dBasell, 
PASCAL, PILOT, Home Acct., GRAM- 
MATIK; $825.00. 362-4075 Zenith Monitor 
$75. Will consider other offers.
$25 REWARD — Woman’s gold necklace 
lost on Saturday of Carnival Weekend. Short 
chain with a snake-like design. Call 
224-8414.
Grad/Prof female student wanted to share 
two-bedroom apt in a Victorian home. Com­
pletely furnished, large rooms, complete kit­
chen. Parking space, walking distance to 
CMU. $195.00 includes utilities. Lease starts 
Sept. (Avail beginning May) 687-4991 after 
10:00 pm.
For Rent—spacious 2 BR apt. in the heart 
of Shadyside. Suitable for 2-4 people, 1 
bathroom, carpeted, fireplace, dishwasher, 
garbage disposal, private entrance, storage 
space, on-street parking. Available May 1, 
$510 & electric. 441-1673.
Shadyside Summer Sublet. Fall option. 
Rent negotiable. Furnished 1-bedroom, 
security, all utilities included. A/C, 
microwave, laundry. 683-2972.
Counselors—over 19 who like to have fun 
and make fun at unique overnight boys’ and 
girls’ summer camps in Penna. Able to in­
struct either one of the following: water safe­
ty, waterskiing, boating, basketball, arts and 
crafts, rock climbing, riflery, ham radio, 
rocketry, science, archery, track, tennis, golf, 
photography, pioneering, or pool head. 
Write: Camp Comet, 138 Red Rander Drive, 
Lafayette Hill, PA 19444 for interview.
FREE RENT! —summer sublet 3447 Ward 
St. Move in mid-May, start paying in June. 
$340/mo. 2-bdrm. all utilities, including kit­
chen, living room carpet. Call Ed 621-3876 
or 578-2938.
Miscellaneous
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 p.m. and 5 
p.m. in his office, 602 Warner Hall, on 
Tuesday April 30, 1985. Students who wish 
to meet with the president should telephone 
his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
Events
23
Movies
Rashomon, starring Toshiro 
Mifune, Machiko Kjo. A rape oc- 
urs in a forest and four different versions of what 
appened combine to determine the truth. One 
f the great international classics. Pittsburgh 
layhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm Admission $2.95.
Plays
ummer, by Edward Bond, directed by Chuck 
to. CMU Studio Theater, 8 pm Admission free.
Clubs
tudent Senate regular meeting in Skibo Wher- 
"tt Room at 7 pm
Lectures
ildren of divorced parents support group 
ows students to talk to people who are going 
rough it themselves. Counseling Center, E- 
ower Morewood, 3:30 pm to 5 pm
Art
tergrated Media Panel Discussion with 
'ting artist Robert Adrian X from Vienna, 
ustria. Also featuring Henry Pisciotta, Bruce 
reland, videotape by Hank Bull, sound tape by 
aurie Anderson from The Studs Terkel Pro- 
am> and spaceship Gekko’s New Orleans' 
hwscan Video. Adamson Wing, 8 pm
a>ntings of landscapes and interiors by two
MU alumnae on display until Saturday, May 
Wildsister’s Cafe Gallery, 27th and Jane Sts. 
ailery hours Wednesday and Thursday, 6:30
mt0 12 pm, Friday and Saturday, 6:30 pm to
am
°n°on display until Friday, May 17. Includ- 
are Kimono for children, for formal and in- 
nnal wear, for different seasons, even spec­
ular wedding kimono. Courthouse 
allery/Forum, Allegheny County Courthouse. 
allery hours: weekdays 8:30 am to 4:30 pm
4 Movies
Women in Love, starring 
Glenda Jackson, Alan Bates, 
er Reed. A sensual film version of D.H. 
\?ences novel about two sisters in Industrial 
^ated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:309:45Pm Admission $2.95.
Sports
hf •cnn»s away meet against Bethany Col- 
at 4 P m.
Plays
Summer. See Tuesday, April 23 for details. CMU 
Studio Theater, 4:30 pm
Music
Dolores Keane accompanied by James Kelly on 
fiddle and Tony MacMahon on accordian in a 
concert of traditional Irish music. Graffiti, 4615 
Baum Blvd, 8 pm Tickets $7 in advance at Irish 
Design Center, all Kaufmanns and Graffiti, $9 
at door.
Gordon Lucht senior guitar recital. Alumni 
Concert Hall, CFA at 8:00 p.m. Admission free.
Recreation
Square Dance with Dolores Heagy calling to the 
music of Whiskey on Tap. Skibo Ballroom, 8 pm 
to 11 pm Admission $3 ($2 with student ID). For 
more information call 321-4462.
Clubs
Bagpipe Class meets in Skibo 12 at 1 pm For 
more information call 241-1002.
CMU Peace Alliance meets in Skibo 45 at 5 pm
^ ^ MoviesQ Rp Fanny and Alexander,
«¦J starring Gunn Wallgren, Jarl
Kulle, Ena Froling, Erland Josephson. A fami­
ly’s many emotional victories and defeats when 
they meet on Christmas Day, 1907. Oscar for Best 
Foreign Film. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm only. Admission $2.95.
2001: A Space Odyssey Stanley Kubrick directs 
this powerful science fiction classic. Doherty Hall 
2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm Admission $1.
Music
Carnegie-Mellon Contemporary Ensemble
plays works by CMU students and 20th-Century 
composers. Alumni Concert Hall, 8:00 pm. 
CFA. Admission free.
Clubs
Explorer’s Club plans rock-climbing and kayak­
ing trips. Skibo 12, 6:30 pm
^ J _ Movies
Dune, starring Kenneth 
McMillan, Kyle McLachlan, 
Sean Young. A sci-fi adaptation of Frank 
Herbert’s novel in which everyone and his cousin 
are after a precious spice. Rated PG-13. Pitt­
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10 pm Admission 
$2.95.
Angels in the Outfield, with cameo appearances 
by Joe DiMaggio and Ty Cobb. Whimsical fan­
tasy concerning an irascible, loudmouthed 
manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates whose losing 
team is helped by the celestial “Heavenly Choir 
Nine.” Carnegie Institute Museum of Art, 8 pm 
Admission $3.
Sports
Lacrosse home game against Slippery Rock 
University. IM Field, 4 p.m.
Music
Polonia Song and Dance Ensemble presents the 
sights and sounds of authentic Polish folk sing­
ing and dancing, after which nationally famous 
“Jimmy Starr” and his orchestra will play at a 
polka dance following the performance. Carnegie 
Music Hall, 7:45 pm (dance starts at 10 pm). 
Tickets $7; call 745-9339 for more information.
27
mission $1.
Movies
Karate Kid. Doherty Hall 2210, 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 pm Ad-
City Heat, starring Clint Eastwood, Burt 
Reynolds, Rip Tom, Madeline Kahn. A private 
detective and police detective team up to battle 
crime. Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm Admission $2.95.
Men’s Tennis away meet against John Carroll 
University at 1 p.m.
Plays
The Beggar’s Opera, presented by CMU Drama 
and Music Departments. CMU production of 
John Gay’s musical which is second only to 
Shakespeare’s works in its popularity in the 
English theater. Keith Lockhart, associate con­
ductor of orchestras and director of CMU Wind 
Ensemble, and Ian Gallacher, music director of 
the Pittsburgh Civic Orchestra, are Creating the 
lost orchestration of Johann Pepusch. Kresge 
Theater, College of Fine Arts, 8 pm Call x2407 
weekdays between 12 noon and 5 pm for more 
information or reservations.
Movies90The Blues Brothers, starring 
John Belushi, Dan Aykroyd. The 
two put together a band in this high-spirited 
movie. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm. 
Admission $1.
The King and I, Yul Brynner, Deborah Kerr, 
Rita Moreno. Colorful, sumptuous film version 
of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical about 
the governess to the King of Siam's many 
children. Brynner won an Oscar for his perfor­
mance. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Music
War Requiem, presented by the music depart­
ments of CMU, Duquesne University and Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh. Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church, (Westminster Place, Shadyside), 8 pm. 
Admission free.
Old Allegheny Festival Choir presents the music 
of Franz Schubert. Works include Des Tages 
Weihe, Ellen’s Second Song, Night Song in the 
Forest, and, Die Nacht. Smithfield United 
Church, 3 pm.
_ ^ MoviesO QBasilens Quartet, starring 
Pierre Malet, Hector Alterio, 
Alain Cuny. A violinist’s sudden death forces his 
colleagues into reassessing their own lives. Pitt­
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Music
War Requiem. See Saturday, April 28 for 
details.
Dance
Free Introductory Adult Dance Classes in 
Ballet, Modern and Jazz. Pittburgh Ballet 
Theater, 2900 Liberty Ave., 11:30 am to 12:30 
pm. Register by calling 281-0360.
Free Master Classes for dance instructors, taught 
by Patricia Wilde. Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, 
5:45 pm to 7:15 pm. Register by calling 
281-0360.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com­
puter mail to MEOPat CMCCTC'. Only classified 
ads will be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi­
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other­
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next week’s issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.

---------------------------------------------------

6 cm* GH
hôte a03,.8
&HUr\#>iÉ (
\ ' mnHU
/
}\otë ^t£s FO£ A 
QoMW)
UJE ARE UNAQU TQ PROCi55 
VQÜR TfcAWSACTlüH ue^,~ mDRF 
TR\E5 fpR A q7z—u1L—„
VO» GvftLF^EMO? 
UHNWÎftL 15 
üfD\M\N6 Mê ßFGGV 
ûJAfofcr nei
D 0jpS8
GB To 
STATI Sites.
From Strange 
Minds
Join the team 
that is leading 
the way into 
the future.
For informa­
tion about career 
opportunities 
at C-P-C, see 
your placement 
office career 
counselor.
The Chevrolet- 
Pontiac-Canada 
Croup is going 
forward into the 
21st Century. It 
needs bold new 
ideas, new 
technology, new 
designs and 
innovations.
Co forward. ,
Ultimate Revenge!
Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada Group-An equal opportunity employer
Funnies.
Joe Freshman By Mark Levine
