I
1924 SCIENCE STAG 
MARCH 15 7:45 P.M. I
CARNEGIE UNION
INTER-HONORARY DANCE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 14 
UNION
VOL. XVIII NO. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TÊCHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 11, 1924
j AND THAT’S THAT 1 INNOVATIONS TO 
' MARK ANNUAL 
SCIENCE STAG
jCHAPEL AROUSES GREATER
INTEREST AMONG STUDENTS. ----
We eee that they have establish­
ed cheer-leading as part of the Soph-j 
more curriculum at the University ofj 
California.
That would never do at Carnegie J 
Tech. We all turn out at all pep j 
meetings and cheer—that is some ofj 
UB. . I
Besides, it is too noisy; it might 
disturb the piece o£ mind of some 
of the faculty.
Anyhow, we make too much noise 
without saying anything as it is. 
For example, this column.
Tickets for the Engineering 
Frolic of 1924 May be Ob­
tained on Campus Now — 
Classes Compete for Cup
Interest in Chapel has been increas­
ing very much during the past live 
weeks. It is quite common now-days 
for the speaker to have a capacity 
audience greet him, which is most 
gratifying to the Administration and 
Y. M. C. A., who are putting forth 
every effort to make the quiet hour 
period interesting as well as instruct­
ive.
Last week began the special se­
ries of Lenten Chapels, which will 
be led by a number of interesting 
leaders, as in the past.
Over at Science School, 77 out of 
235 upp classmen vote • at an elec­
tions Deducting fraternity brothers 
and interested! friends, about ten 
Juniors and Seniors had the time to 
vote for their class officers.
What’s the matter? Is there too 
much red tap’e about writing a name 
down knd putting it Into a box?
Just because the election officials 
stand behind a table doesn’t mean 
that they're going to try to sell 
you something. >
In the same election^ the much 
maligned Sophs turned in lOO^votes, 
or about 100 per cent more than the 
upperclassmen.
Laugh that off!
-Committee is appointed for the 
men’s Senior ball, and it’s to be 
formal this year.
One last full dress fling before they 
don the black robes or Commence­
ment, and step out into the world and 
continual bankruptcy.
Each year we have one magnifi­
cent social splurge, running as fol­
lows: Plebe dance, the Soph Hop,
the Junior Prom, the Senior Ball and 
McDougals for the next live years.
We talk, but we’d give a lot if we 
were eligible to go. Why we’d even 
wear that rented tuxedo again.
Over at the game Friday, we no­
ticed that lots of the boys failed to 
remove their hats. Wonder why?
Because the new gym Is as big as 
a barn, • is no reason for them to 
feel at home.
Maybe those who wore them were 
afraid of a cold in the head. They 
shouldn’t worry; there’s nothing in 
them to get cold,' and anyhow most 
of them are muscle bound in that 
region.
Don’t worry about getting excited 
and throwing the hat away. You’ll 
probably get a better one when the 
game’s over.
Only those who are total bald 
should wear their hats indoors. So 
if you wear yours next game — well, 
we can’t keep people from thinking.
ORCHESTRA OBTAINED PUPPET I - DON’T
Tickets for the 1924 science stag! PROCRASTINATE
are now on sale and may be procured ,
from salesmen on the campus. Ad- j ---------------
mission to the Engineering Frolic of palatjal Prizes Promised in
1924 will be by tag only. Tags should 
be obtained early this week as there 
is no assurance that the ticket sale 
will be continued through to Saturday.
Orchestra Engaged.
An orchestra has been secured to. 
furnish music throughout the entire 
evening. This will provide some at­
traction for the* lapses between the 
speeches and the stunt productions. 
Another feature of the affair which is 
sure to create a lot of excitement and 
interest is the announcement of the 
winners of the popularity contest 
which will be made during the even­
ing. Tiny Nesbit will award the prizes 
to. the lucky winners.
Silver Cup.on Display,
The large silver loving cup which 
the Carnegie Tech Y. M. C. A has giv­
en to the Science Stag is now on dis­
play in the Carnegie Commons where 
it is attracting quite a bit of atten­
tion. This cup will be awarded to the 
class, which produces the best enter­
tainment, by the following judges: 
Dean Tarbell, Mr. J. P. Warner, Prof.
Puppet's Private Pun 
Contest
Puppet, Carnegie’s one prosperous 
publication, to perpetuate its effluent 
quantity of superlative wit, has re­
solved to declare a cash dividend 
wherein all those students who prove 
worthy may participate. All YOU 
have to do to become a stockholder 
is to be good—not physically or mor­
ally but mentally.
For the benefit of those who wield 
a wicked line Puppet is staging a con­
test and is hopeful of reaping some 
material results (pun). And those 
who' accomplish the unheard of de­
velop something original, will bo 
eligible to accept a certified cash 
prize, i. e., $10.00 to the participator 
whose imagination outstrips all the 
others, and $5.00 to him who ranks 
second among the most daring.
Furthermore, the facile manipula-
SKIBOS INVADE 
ENEMY GROUND 
AND WIN, 32-25
Pitt Panther is Victim of Sec­
ond Plaid Win of the Cur­
rent'Season—Carnegie Five 
Plays Brilliantly
MATTER PLAYS WELL
ENG. AND IND. FRESHMAN
NOMINATIONS LISTED
The following men have been 
nominated for the various class of­
fices in the Freshman class of the 
Eugineers and Industries Colloges: 
President: Plummer, Snyder, Flow­
ers, Neu, Van Vechten, S. Smith, 
Bowser, Lohr.
Secretary: Riggs, Bridges, Foches, 
Jackson, Wissinger.
Treasurer: Escher, Peck, Maurer, 
Herr, Divon, Bryant.
Nominations will remain open un­
til tomorrow, Wednesday, and any 
additions should be made before 
this time.
STEFFFN WILL ADDRESS FIRST 
ASSEMBLY IN NEW GYM TODAY
SOPH BANQUET AT 
SCHENLEY THURS.
Gay Evening is Promised to
Pep Meeting in Charge of Cy 
Hoenniger With Ben Lubic 
as Chief Luminary After 
Regular Exercises
*•-----..... tion I1 me paint orusn snau not go
Tommy Griggs. Each of the four | unrewarded, and similar prizes shall
classes in the College of Engineering 
are bending every effort £o be the first 
to have its name engraved on the tro­
phy.
The Science Stag Committee is aV- 
ranging to have a trophy case In­
stalled in the Club Room of the En­
gineering College where the prize cup 
may be kept permanently on display.
Speakers Already Announced.
The speakers for the affair have al­
ready been engaged* and announced 
They include Prof. "Hap” Howor, head 
of the Physics Department of the En­
gineering College, and Bob Waddell, 
assistant varsity football coach. Each 
of these men will &ive a talk that will 
be well worth hearing.
The entertainment productions of 
the various classes, under the leader* 
ships of Tilbroolc, Senior; Fencil, Jun- 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Last Wednesday night after the 
Pitt game, a group of students, en­
thusiastic over the victory over the 
Panther, built a bonfire in front of 
Boss Hall. Director Day came, along 
andl putting his foot against the fire, 
pushed it over into the street, put­
ting cold water on the party.
Asphalt may burn, but not at the 
temperature obtained in a bonfire.
Considering that it was our sec­
ond victory, and over Pitt at that, 
they should be glad that the Hoot 
Mon, or the new gym weren’t burned 
down, instead of kicking over a help­
less little bonfire which didn’t even 
burn lumber.
The next time wo celebrate, each 
student will be permitted to go down 
on the railroad tracks in the hollow, 
and burn three matches if he must 
get hot over the victory.
The Technical Journal still con­
tinues'to function against overwhelm­
ing odds of indifference on the part 
of the students.
We always hand it to a fellow with 
crust, and the Journal gets it in 
shovelfulls.
It’s about the only technical mag­
azine published) which our engineers 
can understand toto, and they won’t 
buy it; why, nobody knows.
We’re not trying to boost a losing 
proposition. We know its limitations 
as well as anyone; but we think it 
is - worth while buying one each is­
sue if for nothing else.
'Let’s give them a hand.
The anonymous "«Titer has not re­
plied to the letters recently publish­
ed on the Alumni Page.
Maybe the Alumni found out who 
‘he was. If so, he is probably de­
funct by this time.
On the other hand he may be col­
lecting material for another revela­
tion about, the Clans Jwhich will riv­
al the famous Tea Pot Dome affair.
Tea Pot Dome. Sounds like a 
nickname for a Prof.!
Well, this boy stirred up more 
life in the Clans than they have 
shown for a long time, and we’re 
waiting with baited breath to read 
what he says the next time he 
writes.
Call is issued for spring sports 
candidates. And the same day the 
temperature drops from 50 to 29, 
which goes to show that you can’t 
dictate to the weather and get away 
with it.
There’B not much kick running 
miles around the wall of a gym, for 
you can’t sec where you’ve gotten 
any place. With only one letter 
man back for tennis, things don’t 
look so bright.
But then, we always have a good 
tennis team.. It’s traditional.
Why is it that the fraternities liv- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Joint Club Concert 
Scheduled forMay 2
Dance Will be Held Following 
Concert in Music Hall
be awarded to those who compete in 
this field, to wit, a first mention of 
ten dollars and a second mention of 
five dollars. Mention of all contribu­
tors whose' work is accepted shall 
also be made in the column's of the 
Puppet and iu selecting next years 
staff they shall not be unremembered.
The time limit'has-been oxtended 
arid copy will prove acceptable up to 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
It was the original: plan of the 
¦Carnegie Women’s Glee Club to hold 
a concert on March 21. * The com-,
mittee for the annual Arts ball. I activities, and the. throe cannot -be
Have you ever wondered why more 
men do" not go out for activities horo 
at Carnegie, or why the ones that 
have so many have them? There have 
been many discussions of this ques­
tion, among both the men students, 
and the girls, and the opinions aro 
very varied.' I have taken some of 
the men’s thoughts on this subject 
as interesting material for all stu­
dent’s reflections.
Jerry Slyo, Junior Engineer, says:
"It’s all In tlio way a man gets start­
ed whether or not ho will bo active 
on the campus. There are tlireo ways 
ho may start; either to be a social 
success, an "A” students, or, take up
Displaying an attack that could not 
be stopped, Wednesday night, the Tar­
tan cagers secured sweet revenge for 
the tliree-poiut trimming they receiv­
ed at the hands of the Pitt Panther 
some time ago. Tile Skibos decisive­
ly defeated their rivals from across 
the way, the final score being 32-25. 
At no time during the battle did Pitt 
seem to have a chance; never once 
was the on-rushing Plaid in danger of 
losing its lead.
For the first time this year the Car­
negie machine seemed to work 
smoothly throughout the entire game. 
Heretofore it seemed that the team 
went like a house afire for one or two 
periods, only to fizzle out in the next 
period. The Tartan,passers liavo dem­
onstrated before that they have the 
stuff and are well coached, but it was 
not until Wednesday night that they 
made all factors count for them. And 
count they did.
The Tartans jumped into the lead 
.right off the reel. Fiold goals by An­
derson, Robertson and Reed pilod up 
the points, and when the first period 
ended the score stood Carnegie 8, 
Pitt 1. The second quarter was a rep­
etition of the first—at, no time did the 
Panthers seem to have the ghost of a 
chance to win, or oven give the on- 
raged Tartans close oppostlon. When 
the warriors halted at mld-tlmo for a 
ten minute respite, tlio count stood 15 
to 4 jn favor of Garnogio. Pltt, how­
ever, came back strong in the third 
and fourth periods, outscoring the 
Plaid In each of them by a couple of 
pointB. But they could not overcomo 
the gigantic lead anmasod by the S'kl- 
bos, for the latter kept, in mind the 
lead they had ovor Wash-JolT the 
woolc before only to lose out In tlio 
second half, and did not give the Pan­
ther an Inch.
Evoryone of the hoys who got into 
the game playod brilliantly, but we 
must especially take off our hats to 
littlo Midgo Mattor. What lie did not 
do to the Pitl; team was not worth­
while doing. Ho seomod to bo mixod 
up in ovory play, whoLher on tlio of­
fensive or dofonsivo. ills floor game 
could not have boon Improved upon, 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Soph Hop Tickets Are 
On Sale for March 28
H0N0RARIES’ DANCE 
SET FOR MARCH 14
All Members of Honorary 
Societies Are Invited to At­
tend Annual Hop
Due to an error on the part of the 
writer, the dVate for tho Inter-Honor­
ary Dance was given as March 24th in 
the last issue of tho Tartan. Tills op­
portunity Is taken to announce that 
the date for that affair is March 14th.
There has been much discussion on 
tho campus this last week, especially 
among the members of tho Girl I-Ion- 
prarlea, ^giving rise to tho •question, 
“Do we have to come to the dance 
with some member of the Men’s Hon- 
oraries?” However, to clear up this 
question in brief.' In ordor to be oleg- 
Ible for admittance to tho dance, one 
member of every couplo must be an 
active member or an alumnus of an 
eleglble society.
Tho mere fact, that such a discus­
sion started goes to show tho lntorost 
which has boon caused by this dance. 
And such discussions aro found not 
only among tho girls, but also take up 
a great amount.*of time among the 
men. Tho enthusiasm ban ovon 
spread to those fow outsldo of tho fa­
vored bonds who liavo found It within 
their reach to attond. When tlioso 
few show such an lntorost, It can bo 
judged with what impatlonco and en­
thusiasm the members of tho favored 
sociotlos await the dato.
To romind you, wo again stato that 
(Contlnuod on Pago Two.)
Second Year Men at 
Class Feast
PROGRAM HAS SNAP
I
COIMITTl:E APPOINTED 
FOR MEN’S SENIOR BALL
however, since March 21, is the only 
advisable date for the ball, asked 
that the Glee Club concort be post­
poned.
April 5 was sot as a later date, 
but after some Consideration It was 
decided to postpone the concert en­
tirely until May 2, when both tho 
Women’s and Men’s Clubs will hold 
a joint concert. ...
The concert will be held in Car­
negie Music Hall, ancL will be one of 
the big events of the school year. 
A number of special features are be­
ing arranged for the concert. Tho 
clubs, are anxious to make it an, all- 
Carnegie affair and with the co-oper­
ation of all Carnegie students the 
concert should be a huge success.
Plans are being perfected for a 
danco to be held following the con­
cert to which all are invited and 
which all are expected to attend.
The Woman’s Glee Club held a 
meeting Friday afternoon, March 7, 
to discuss tentative plans for mak­
ing the concert very attractive.
Definite plans and features for the 
concert will be forthcoming in fu­
ture issues of The Tartan.
Y.W.C.A. of Three Schools 
Will Hold Joint Banquet
Pitt, V. C. W. and Carnegie will 
hold a joint Y. W. C. A. membership 
banquet in the Margaret Morrison 
Cafeteria at 6 P. M.j Tuesday, March 
18th.
This is the one time each year 
when the girls from the three Pitts­
burgh colleges can meet and get to 
know each other. There is always 
an exceptionally good program be­
cause the colleges vie with each oth­
er to see which one can put on the 
best part of the program.
In order to accommodate the girls 
from Pitt and P. C. W., Carnegie 
Tech has limited itself to 60 tickets. 
Tickets will be sold for $1.00 and it 
will be/wise to purchase them at the 
Y. W. C. A. meeting tommorow.
The meeting this week will again 
be in charge of Mrs. Berry because 
her discussion of the Book of Job, 
which was delightfully interesting, 
met with such enthusiasm from the 
girls last week. Tomorrow she will 
discuss the Book of Esther.
EVER BEEN IN BARCELONA?
mixed very successfully. And then, 
a man does get started in activities, 
they just keep-piling up, until ho Is 
carrying a great many.”
Red O’Connor, College of Engineer­
ing, ’26, says:
“The work is too hard to go out 
for activities. Tho scholastic stand-' 
ing here is so high that they can’t 
keep up with work and activities 
both.”
The above opinion is echoed by 
many students, but Ted Moessner has 
a different view of the matter.
“There is only a certain crowd 
around here that has the spirit to go 
in for activities. The rest are so 
much deadwood! Of course, scholas­
tic standing keeps many men out of 
it, but there is not enough emphasis 
placed upon activities to present the 
matter in its true importance.” 
Johnnie Carr, Freshman fn the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, says:
“The scholastic standing here is 
what keeps men out of activities; 
that, and the amount of work that is 
given for one man to do. No one 
can do too many things at once.”
Ted Hughes, Senior in the College 
of Industries, says:
“It’s all in the way a man gets off 
at the start. If he is started on the 
right path, he will continue on it. A 
man comes here with his opinions 
half-formed, and what he needs is to 
be started' in the right direction, and 
he will learn to work everything In.” 
Another opinion is that of Tommie 
Griggs, a Senior Engineer. He says: 
“To get into activities, a man must 
start early enough, of course, and the 
lack of a good start often is the rea­
son why more men at Carnegie do not 
go in for activities. Another reason 
is the fact that the college is situated 
in a large city, which offers more out­
side diversion than a small town, 
where colleges are usually situated.” 
Another reason Is the fact that there 
nre a great many men here doing part- 
time work and they have no time for 
activities.”
Arthur Brace, Senior Architect, 
says:
“I thJnk It is because of a loss of 
spirit among tho Plebes and Sophs 
that there is a decrease in activity, 
and that this condition is probably 
brought about by the absence of 
fights.. Fights develop leadership, 
and when a man comes to the fore as 
a leader, he will be shoved Into ac- 
(Contlnued on Page Two.)
Harman’s Orchestra to Play; 
Dramats Furnish Five
Tlckots aro now on sale for tho 
Soph Hop, to bo hold at tho Hotel 
Schonley ballroom, on tho night of 
March 28. Tho section leaders of the 
Sophomore class are the distributing 
agents for tho tickets, which sell at 
$,'{.00. Tho Sophomores are getting 
first choice in the sales, of course, 
but the other classes will also have 
an opportunity to purchaso a. ticket.
Tho invitations to chaperone the 
dance, sent by the members of tho 
class were extendod to Prof. and Mrs. 
William R. Work, Mr. and Mrs. Kirk­
patrick and Mr. and Mrs. Herbert L. 
Spencer.
The programs for this occasion are 
being made especially attractive so 
that they may be treasured mementos.
The wonderful impression of Dave 
Harman's Orchestra at the Men’s Jun­
ior Prom led to their being selected 
by the Sophomores for their most im­
portant sdcial event. The kind of 
music and the novel stunts inter­
spersed will no doubt bring a large 
crowd, anxious to have another pleas­
ant evening when this orchestra 
makes Its appearanec once more.
The Dramats will put on an act dur­
ing the Intermission, but they will not 
tell the details at this time.
By the appearance of things, it 
seems safe to predict that this is go­
ing to be a mighty enjoyable evening.
That tho Men’s Bonlor Hall Is to bo 
tho big class ovont of tho Seniors this 
yoar, was docldod at tho last mooting 
of tho Ball Committee. Horotoforo, 
tho Ball has only hold a minor place 
on tho social calendar' of tho yoar 
while' at othor largo col logos and Uni- 
corsltlos tho Sonior Ball rivals the 
Junior Prom. Since It, Is the last 
dance that the Seniors hold as a class 
It is only right that It should stand 
out in memories of those who attend­
ed as bolng one of tho most pleasant 
ovonlngs spent while In college.
Tho Ball will bo hold on Thursday 
night, April 24. It was originally sot 
for Friday, April 25, but duo to somo 
mistake tho Annual Exhibition was 
schoduled for the same night, so tho 
Ball was changed to Thursday. The 
plaoo Is tho University Club Ball 
Room. Dancing will be from nlno to 
ono.
it is planned to make the Ball form­
al this yoar, which bj auothor change 
from that of last year. Also only 
Seniors and Alumni aro eligible to at­
tond. Since it is a Sonior Class affair 
the committee will attempt to make 
it such. I
The Men's Senior Ball Committee 
consists of M. S. Downos, chairman; 
R. D. Smith and R. M. Stevens. In­
dustries; E.- P. Couse, Jr. and K. O. 
Sonneman, Arts; K. T. Davis and J.
C. Miekle, Science.
Tho Sophomore Banquet Committee 
last week completed arrangements 
tor tho affair to bo held this Thurs­
day at the Schenley. Six is the hour 
and two-fifty is tho price.
Great difficulty was experienced in 
finding a suitable date and place after 
the postponement due to the scarlet 
fever scare. Valiant efforts wore 
made to find a time that would fit 
both tho kinks in the White Book and 
tho curves of the social calendar.
Class reaction to tho dofinite an­
nouncement was instantaneous and fa- 
vprablo. Ticket sales lnivo been 
heavy. Tho class spirit which had for 
some time suffered from the unmoved 
strain of patient waiting quickly re­
turned to normal and showed signs of 
tho samo fire which caused such dis­
tress to certain persons on the cam­
pus last spring.
As usual tho committee refused to 
talk about tho entertainment side of 
tlio affair. In their estimation cu­
riosity is tho best policy.
They positively stato, however, that 
nothing will bo porpotratod which is 
as open to consuro as the re-oxams in 
math. What they refused to admit Is 
that tlioso who partake of the luscious 
and abundant victuals will got some­
thing besldos a mouthful.
It is an open socrot that tho orcli- 
ostra which has boon, securod knows 
sovoral stunts which might bo de­
scribed as trick—such as playing 
“The Old Oaken Buckot” on tambour- 
Inos with snare drum nceompnnlmont. 
The professional ontortalnors that 
have boon engaged aro of A grado If 
ono can bollovotho Now York pnpors. I 
The commlttoo guarantees that tho 
first spoakor who says anything se­
rious will be troated with a mildewed I 
ogg.
Tho fact that tho banquet Is not a 
secret affair has given greater oppor­
tunity for procuring ontortulnmont 
features. Ono novelty promises to bo 
a sensation If It does not fizzle.
Tho'whole of the' proceedings are 
to be finished Ifi time to lot. tho boys 
go homo and prepare tho noxf day’s 
class work, If they al’o able. A hit* 
teror ending to a sweeter evening no 
prof could ask.
Portrayal of Classical 
Period [By Music Dept.
Public Recital to be Given by 
Students Next Sunday
CIVILS SEE PICTURES
OF BOULEVARD SLIDE
M. M. SOPHS WILL HOLD
BAKE SALE MARCH 15
On Saturday, March 15, the Soph­
omore class of Margaret Morrison 
will hold a bake sale on the second 
floor of the Pittsburgh Market Build- 
Ing.
Last year this same class added 
over eighty dollars to its scholarship 
fund by this means. The proceeds 
this year will go into the same fund.
Elizabeth Schwartz was appointed 
general chairman of the sale and 
she has submitted the following list 
of committees which are doing their 
boBi to make the enterprise Just art 
successful tills, as it was last:
Baking and Buying — Chairman, 
Mary Dale; Betty Bailey, Beryle 
Rankin and Mary Hill.
Publicity—Chairman, Bertha Keg- 
ley; Margaret Calvert, Geraldine Cor- 
bit.
Sales—Chairman, Rosemond McIH- 
raine; Lucille Anderson and Mable 
McKee.
CAN YOU SHIP AHOY7
The Boulevard Slide was the sub; 
ject of an Interesting talk given be­
fore the Civil Engineering Seminar 
last Wednesday. Mr. W. D. Wiggins, 
chief engineer of Maintenance of 
Way, Central Region of the Pennsyl­
vania Railroad and member of the 
American Society of Civil Engineers, 
spoke on the methods undertaken by 
the railroad In combatting the slide.
The slide started in the fall of 1920 
after a prolonged wet spell. It was 
made up largely of material which 
had been dumped Into a ravine abovo 
and south of the railroad along Bige- 
loy Boulevard. The first thing that 
the slide did waB to push over a for­
ty-four foot retaining wall and de­
stroy* the biggest part of a supply 
and ear wash house. At its peak the 
slide put out of commission eleven of 
the nineteen tracks which handled 
dally two hundred and fifty passen­
ger trains. Somo of tho tracks were 
buried to a depth of forty feet.
Seven steam shovels were kept 
busy twenty four hours a day for 
several weeks removing the dirt as 
it came down. Altogether one hun­
dred and seventy-nine thousand yards 
of dirt were loaded Into cars and 
hauled as far as forty miles to suita­
ble dumping grounds. Before tho 
yard was restored to Its former con­
dition the slide had cost the Ponn- 
sylvanla Railroad three quarters of 
a million dollars. Lantern slides 
were used to illustrate the various 
stages of the slide.
Mr. Higgins also outlined the plan 
whereby the railroad would handle 
the passenger trafllle had the entire 
yard boon destroyed.
Tho students of tlio Department of 
Music will present thoir third histo­
rical recital portraying tho clamilcal 
period, next Sunday at 8: ao p. m.
Tho recital hi opbn to tho public and 
tho following program ban boon ar­
ranged':
1. Franz .losoph Haydn. Variations 
in F minor for piano (1732-1809)
Helen B. Johnson
2. Ludwig van Bootliovon. Sonata 
for ’cello and piano, Op. 5, No. 2 
(1770-1827). Adagio sostenuto ed 
osprosnlvo Allegro inolto pin tonto 
presto Rondo
Georgo Wilkins, Jeanotto Spatholt
3. Christoph Willibald Gluck. Aria 
“Splagge Amato" (Parlde ed El­
ena) (1714-1787)
Bessie Weirlcli
4. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Dans 
un Bols solitaire (1756-1791)
John Ingram
5. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Con-
certante in D major for two vlo- 
llne and piano /
Allegro con spirito 
Marie Kleylo, Francis Kleylo, Alice 
Kirk
0. Ludwig von Beothoven. Plano so­
nata in K flat, Op. 31, No. 3 
Allegro
Allegretto vivace
Moderato e grazloso (Minuotto)
Presto con fuoco
Malvina McKIssock 
7. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Aria 
(Continued on Page Two)
The General assembly today is to 
¦be held/ in tlio now gymnasium. 
Judge Walter P. Sftolfon of Chicago, 
football coach uonparlel and orator 
par excellence, will be tiie speaker.
Tho meeting will bo turned over 
to Cy Hoenniger at tho conslusfor* 
of tho regular exeroisos for a short 
pop function with Coach Ben Lublo 
of tho basket ball team as the star 
performer. He will instill into the* 
students somo of the spirit which 
beat Pitt in preparation for the 
Penn State game.
The Pi Delta Epsilon initiates will 
go tlu’ough tlio last rite of their in­
duction into that fraternity during 
the assembly. Mary Power, the 
samo who twice foolod the reporter 
by postponing appearances announc­
ed In Tho Tartan, is again on tho 
program for somo unusual loadings.
The Student Council in response- 
to expressed opinion on tho campus 
decided! that gonoral nssombly in ther 
new gym should bo given a trial to 
see if it would not. increase stmlont 
attendance. Today’s assembly is ex­
pected to nttract an unprecedented 
number, both bocauao of tbo novelty 
of tho place and 'boeauoo or tho rep>- 
utatlon of tho spoakor.
Judge Stoffon has given no advanco 
information as to wnar, his subject 
will be. It 1s suro to bo ono of di­
rect appeal to Carnogio student.» 
and Its manner of presentation will 
loavo no doubt of the speaker's 
moaning.
Tho bloachers are to serve an 
seats. They will be arranged to 
command a vlow of ail proceedings1 
and insure easy hearing of tho 
spoakor.
A plan at present, undor dlueun- 
slon by tho Student Council' pro­
poses two assemblies a month, tho 
X>ne at tho gym to Instill a little 
spirit Into the students and tho 
other at the Music Hall to Indmco 
a littlo culture. The result of to­
day's trial will fm ooufdrlorod In matt­
ing the'1 final decision.
Cosmopolitan Club Will 
Give Reception at Pitt
Saturday of this wook the Cosmo­
politan Club will have as their guests 
the members el* tho Pittsburgh chap­
ter of the American Association of 
University Women, (lie Women's City 
Club, the Collogo Club, and the Tn- 
tornntlonnl Club or the Ponmiylvunh* 
Collogo for Women, and will hold for 
them a reception from 2:30 to 5:50» 
o'clock In the afternoon, at Hein» 
Mouse on tho Pltt Campus:
This will be one of the biggest so­
cial ovonts to be hold under the nuih 
pices of a group of Carnegie and- Pltt 
students. About four hundred per­
sons will be in attendance, which, 
makes tills reception the most pre­
tentious affair conducted'by tho (Jo«i- 
mopolltan Club thin year. Speeches, 
music, Including singing and jolh- 
danolug; refreshments and get t«>- 
(Contlnuod on Pago Four.)
MECHANICALS TO HEAR
HOBBS, CLASS OF 1910
Mechanicals, Sophomores, Junior» 
and Seniors, tliore will be a mooting 
of the Carnogio Mechanical Engineer­
ing Society this Thursday night. J. fl. 
Hobbs, class of '10, will give a talk. 
Mr. Hobbs is an ofllciency englneor at 
the Duquense Light Company of this 
city nnd Is sure to give a talk which 
will be both Interesting to the students 
and Instructive at the namo time. Ho- 
received a degree In Mechanical En­
gineering In tho second class'grad­
uated from Carnegie Tech, and ha« 
been an enthusiastic alumnus since.
Tho place of meeting is Room 1ft, 
Machinery Hall, and the time Is 8:0ft 
P. M. All the Mechanicals are urged 
to came out to tho -meeting. Whether 
you are a member or not does not 
matter. Como anyway. There will be 
eats and smokos.
I LOVE AN ENGINEER. DO YOU»
The Mystery of the Beaded Bag
Stunt Arranged for Science Stag
(By Don Gardner.) \
The one event on the campus which 
offers a safe haven for smile-shy and 
Leap Year-fearing males Is again ap­
proaching with Its usual repertoire of 
good woman-proof events. The com­
mittee has, as committees are wont 
to do, guaranteed the best affair over, 
but to our mind they have overlooked 
the best publicity bet to be had.
The first line above suggests It;. 
Who could want anything swootor 
Llinri an cvtmlnj? spent In the company 
of male acquaintances; far, far, from 
the maddening shrieks of the deleter­
ious female? (You answer that ono, 
Frankie, wo don't know what the 
words mean.)
On the books for the evening are a 
number of short stunts which will be 
prosorited by the various classes and, 
as a warning to those who anticipate
giving tbo sweet woman the air fo& 
that occasion, wo fool called upon to 
give a short review of each.
Tho Seniors will lead off with a par­
lor, bedroom, and bath farce featured 
by an all star cast. The play was 
written by Iva Kalcasoap and takes 
place In a blinding shower. In tbo 
last act the climax Is reached whoa 
tho tall, lanky heroine leaves a ring 
In the tub. She frantically calls to 
her husband for help and he, thinking 
she Is about to bo drowned, yells out 
“Stopper, stoppor!”
When tho pandomonious laughter 
caused by tho above has subsided tho 
Junior class will display Its histrionic 
talent, This effort will take the form 
of a skit entitled "Tragedy of a Tea 
Taster.” The whole play Is replete 
with action from tho time the hero 
(Continued on Pago Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 11, 1924
Published every week by undergraduate*} of tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the 'supervision of tho Student Council.
‘Trojan Women’ Opens 
Wed. in Arts Theater
Industries Men Considering Adopting 
Constitution For Senate Government
libi ter ed In tho PoHtolllco of Pittsburgh as HOCond-clasH matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEI/1
BUSINESS MANAGER............Illland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD...
FRED C. SMITH............
FRED T. PHELPS........
...................................Schenley 9180-—Managing Editor
...............................................ABölBtant Managing Editor
.............................................Assistant Managing Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
MARK S. DOWNES 
H. II. WILSON
NEWS EDITORS
.......... Schenley 9070
A. S. ANDREWS .................... Schenley 9211
A. E. KROCII..................
M. C. PR AZI ICR..............
.......................................Schenloy 9070—Alurnnl Editor
.....................................Schenley 91-13—Athletic Editor
It. W. SLEATH ............
DON GARDNER ............... Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY............
W. M. GIBSON................
B. BROUDY.....................
...........................................................Circulation Manager
............................Schonloy 9211.—Advertising Manager
...........................................AsBlstant 924SCEI4N Manager
Entello Garibaldi 
ICllzaboth Jane Gordon 
Wilma Stlnor 
Carol Folght 
Maigarot McFall 
Rosemary McCambrldgo 
Nora WilletH
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Almoe Pharo 
N. C. Weser 
V. B. Smith 
L. II. Harris 
E. O. Johnson 
K. Fulmer 
A. F. Carson
J. M. Goss 
F. M. McClelland 
M. W. Gay 
C. A. Lundqulst 
R. b. Lepper 
J. N. Conley 
Holllnshead
Helen Corrao
AT H LETI C CONTRI BUTORS 
Jacoby J. ClirlBtoff J. F. HarrisID. C. Plummer
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
I). MonkovlU, J. W. Metro, P. Bille, It. h. Sandroek, A. Grodner, h. Bar- 
brow, A. Perreton, Lee C. Osborn, E. L. Reeves.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All news Items must be in the student 
poHt olllce before 4:30 Thursday.
1:20.
Tartan Office—Rpòm G-A, Industries Building. Olllce hours—Dally 12:30-
US AND SPRING
Greek Tragedy by Euripides 
Will be Attraction
"The Trojan Women" by Euripi­
des, a tragedy dealing with the 
events of tho Trojan War, will open 
tomorrow evening in. the Arts School 
Theater.
This play has moro modern inter­
est than most ancient Greek plays, 
because It deals •with tho incon­
ceivable'' tortures and injustices of 
war. Its message is as applicable 
now as it was when the j/luy was 
written.
"The Trojan Women" is not a 
perfect play perhaps not even a 
good play, Judged vy modern dra­
matic standards. Yet It is one of 
the 1 greater dramas of the elder 
world. In one situation, with little 
movement, low figures and scenes, it 
Hashes a groat dramatic lesson, the 
inflnate pathos of a successful wrong.
The cast of characters includes: 
Elizabeth Sowersby, Frances Davis, 
Ida Krans, Mary -Skurkay, Jeanne 
Blake, Clair© Schelhase, Dorothy 
Schell, Beth Lindsay, Mary1 Power, 
Harriet Walker, Don Maryl, Harry 
Mervis, Jack Daniels, John Beistel, 
Ben WeinbJatt and Leon Ford.
Those interested in dramatic lit­
erature should make use of this op­
portunity of seeing a play which 
was performed as early as 410 B. 
C., from a story which was even 
then ancient history. Tickets may 
he obtained at the Dean's Office to­
day.
At the last Industries College Assembly, President Gore presented the 
new constitution which had been drawn up by a special committee. This 
action wa staken following a vote by the assembly last November to adopt 
the Senate form of government. *
Inasmuch as the time was too short to allow a full discussion of the 
constitution, action was carried over till the next regular assembly. All 
I Industries men are expected to read the constitution before this time and 
be ready to present any changes or recommendations:
CONSTITUTION OF THE SENATE OF THE COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
A warning in time may save many skins.
Likewise a warning in time may insure many goocl limes.
All of which may be taken for what it means, and interpretations 
might not be out of place after such far-fetching statements as those 
given above/
We all live in skins, so skins as used in this instance can be taken 
to mean none less than us. Now you know what we are referring to, 
so let’s proceed with our sermon of the week.
Tn glancing over the program as mapped out by our program- ! 
mappers for this spring, we are dazed by the great accumulation, of 
events of every sort and variety, conducted at all sorts of hours of 
every day of every week. Even now there seems to be no respite. 
The scarlet fever ban somewhat scrambled our social calendar to 
such an extent that after all are unscrambled, doubt will arise in' 
many of our minds just as to whether or not things are really un­
scrambled. Forsooth, it seems as il! many things are of necessity 
scheduled for the same flight. But it. can’t; be helped, and there’s 
nobody to blame for the state of affairs but the health authorities.
The condition exists and there’s nothing else to do but beat time 
to the music.. We want to study. We want to «lance. We want 
to sco the tennis matches. We. want to see tho baseball games. We 
want to watch the track meets. We want to take in Campus Week. 
Furthermore, while doing /ill of those “wants," we Ayant to remain 
in school, and possibly in the case of a number of us, take part our­
selves in some ol! them. In other words we want, to keep ourselves 
eligible. And it’s s-o-m-c j-o-b, believe me!
It, all comes down to this. (Here’s tho warning that’s going to
save many a skin, and insure many good times.)
From now on, things are going to happen so thick and fast
around the campus that in order to lake them all in, we’ve just
simply "gotta” keep up as we go. Woe bo unto the man who lets 
things drag- puts oil’ ’til some later date -those lessons which are 
due tomorrow. If ho does, something will slip somewhere, and either 
iie’ll suddenly find himself burning the midnight oil and missing j 
many good times, or, looking for a job.
This is .merely a waning ol' strenuous times to come, and a little 
Bound advice, which, through the hooding of, you will assure yourself 
of a nice series of enjoyable times throughout, the spring.
(let down to the books, and take things as they come, and in 
that way you’ll bo able to take in all school events, athletic events, 
celebrations, and what-not? And at. the same time prepare the pro­
fessors to hand you a few A s and B’s.
Now you know what you’ve to do, so KALL TO, AND TO IT! 
Aid) OF WHTC.II REMINDS tJS
But, honestly, don’t you think there’s too much going on on the 
campus anyway?
STUDENT CALENDAR^
¦WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12
“Trojan "Women’1.......................................................8:15, Arts Theater
Basket Bull—Carnegie-Penn State.............................Gymnasium '
TlIUllSDAY, MABC.1I 13
Sophomore Banquet...!:....................................................(i:()0, Schenley
Turner Lecture..................................................8:00, Room 218, Science
“Trojan Women”......................................................8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 14
“Trojan Women”.......................................................8:15, Arts Theater
Inter-Honorary Dance .........................................................!):00, Union
SATURDAY, MARCH 15
Science Stag.........................................................................7 :45, Union
“Trojan Women”.......................................................8:15, Arts Theater
SUNDAY, MARCH IB
Third Historical Recital.............................................S:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MAORI! 21
Industries Smoker (Uncertain)...........................................8:00, Union
Arte Ball.........................................................9:00, College oil Fine Arts
SATURDAY, MARCH 22 
Post Ball Dance.............................................9 :00, College of Fine Arts
PUPPET!—DON'T
PROCRASTINATE
(Contlnuod From Pngo One.) 
and including the next laauo at loast. 
This does not mean, however, that 
tbo limit Is flexible and that matorlnl 
sont in Juno 15 will recolvo tho samo 
consideration that it would have two 
months before. Copy already in 
will appoar in tho next Issue so that 
contributors can got a lino on just 
what kind Is acceptable.
Puppet’s address in still Puppet, 
O. I. T., Post Ollco. and all communi­
cations will bo regarded with abso­
lute confidence.
THE MYSTERY OF THE 
BEADED BAG, STUNT 
ARRANGED FOR SCIENCE STAG
(Continued From Pngo Ono.) 
murders his mother-in-law for putting 
too much sugar in his coffee to the 
final scene in which the slightly in­
ebriated villian goes out to buy a hat 
to keep his cocoa warm.
Tho Sophs have decided to produce 
John W. EarniufE’s comedy "He May 
Be Deaf, but He’s Not Dumb,” This 
touching piece of light opera has for
its theme the story of a poor but bon 
est street car conductor and it seems 
only fair that in token of such es- 
teomod Bervice that these men render 
wo should transfer our attention to 
the Car Barn whore tho scene is laid. 
The hero in the pl6t is absent-minded­
ly ringing up faros when tho story 
opons. A stranger raps on the door 
and aalcn when tho next, horse car 
will bo along. "Hop on.“ says the 
hero, "this car for tho barn."
The identity of tho Plebe attempt 
Is being hidden from us, but wo know 
that It will be something good. The 
chairman of tho commlttoo, .Calcium 
C. Footllght, in tolling of some of his 
past stago experiences says:
"Ya know oncet I was playin’ in 
Milwaukee and the act ahead of me 
was so rotten that the audience was 
,still hissing when I came on the stage 
and. would ya believe it, they contin­
ued hissing even after I left."
There's the dope, you Know the 
date—you pays your money and you 
takes your choice.
CAN YOU SHIP AHOY?
Do you think Deuby knows his oil? 
—A. E. R.
"It has been very interesting to 
me to watch the growth of Carnegie 
Tech during the years I have been 
here," said Professor Work, Head 
of the Department of Electrical- En­
gineering, "When I came to Carne­
gie In 1905, a fow months after its 
founding, what Is now the College 
of Industries was the only building 
on the campus, and all classes, both 
men's andi women's, were held 
there.” There was no distinction 
at that time between the four col­
leges now on the campus, he ex­
plained, but tho courses which wore 
the foundation of these schools wore 
all present.
"The Maggie Murphs had their 
classes on tho three lloors of the 
upper end of tho present Industries 
building," Profossor Work suid (not 
Including the Central building which 
was added later.) All the shops in 
Industries wore in tlio same places 
then as now except for the Printing 
and Carpenter shops which were add­
ed after tho Margaret Morrison 
building was constructed, and the 
Brick shop which displaced the 
heating plant after its removal to 
Machinery Ilall at the time of the 
construction of the latter building."
Arts courses consisted merely of 
commercial designing. The engineer­
ing and Industrial courses wore given 
at that time under tho instruction of 
one man as Jiead of each department.
To this building tho remaining 
hulldliiKM have boon nddod from 
time to time; the Engineering 
School, the Margaret Morrison build1- 
Ing, Machinery Ilall and Art» 
School."
Proossor Work has boon with Car­
negie Toch continually except for 
a short period during tho war. "It 
Is an Interesting point to note how 
I happened to come to Carnegie." 
conllnuol tho professor. M came to 
Pittsburgh with tho object of work- 
'ng hi the Wostlnghouse Manufac­
turing Company, but shortly after I 
arrived, I met ¿’rofossor Keller, who 
had 'iiready accepted a position as 
an Instructor in the recently founded 
Carnegie Technical Schools, and who 
regained here until his death last 
year. Mr. Keller was a mathematics 
.professor of mine at Wittenberg 
where 1 was graduated in 1902. He 
offered me a position in the electric­
al department t«t Carnegie and I ac­
cepted, with little thought that 1 
would be sitting in this chair to­
day."
Professor work has been Head of 
the Department of Electrical Engi­
neering for three years, having suc­
ceeded Professor Wurts, who is now 
a "Research Professor in Electrical 
Engineering. Mr. Work received an 
M. A. degree at Wittenberg in 1902 
and an M. E. degree at .Ohio State 
University in 1905. He is a member 
of Sigma Xi, a science scholastic 
honorary of Wittenberg, the Carnegie 
chapter of Tau Beta Pi, and Beta 
Thetn Pi. His office is in Machin­
ery Hall in the Electrical Engineer­
ing Department.
PREAMBLE
Whereas, we, the students of the day school of the College of Industries 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, believe that questions interesting the 
student body of this college can be controlled best through student govern­
ment, we do hereby place tho control of these interests into the hands of a 
representative body whose name, organization, and powers are defined below: 
Article One—Name.
The organization governed by this constitution shall be known as The 
Senate of the College of Industries of the Carnegie Institute of, Technology.
ArticIc Two—Membership.
The Senate shall be composed of representatives from the four classes 
registered in degree courses and from the group registered in non-degree 
I courses of the Day School oft the College of Industries.
Article Three—Representation, 
i Section 1. The number of representatives from each class or group shall 
be as follows:
Seniors 5, Juniors 4, Sophomores 2, FreBlimen 1, Non-degree 1, total 13.
Section 2. All representatives elected at the regular elections, with the 
i exception of the Freshmen representative (Art. 3, Sec. 3-d) and the Senior 
representative (Art. 3, Sec. 3-a), shall serve as members of the Senate for 
¡two (2) years.
Section 3. Each class ffhall elect the following number of representa­
tives; the time of election to be in the Spring of each year on the date 
! set by Student Council.
i (a) The Senior Class shall elect three (3) representatives, one of whom 
! shall be their class President. They shall serve for that year only.
(b) The Junior class shall elect two (2) representatives, one of whom 
j shall be their class President.
(c) The newly elected class President shall represent his class.
(d) The first Freshman class President or Vice President shall repre- 
I sent his class during the term of oilice. The second class President shall 
1 serve for one and one-half years.
(e) The Non-Degree group shall elect one representative from the sec­
ond year class. He shall serve one year.
Section 4. In event that any member of the Senate does not advance 
with his class, his place shall be filled from his class by a regular election. 
The newly elected member shall complete the unexpired term of olllce of his 
predecessor.
Section 5. In the event that any member of the Senate is elected to an 
1 office which again places him on the Senate, his class shall elect another 
! representative who shall serve the unexpired term of office of that member.
Article Four—Powers.
Section 1. All actions taken by the Senate shall be considered as actions 
I of the Btudent body, except as provided in Art. 8.
Section 2. It shall be the duty of the Senate to publish notices of all 
I actions of the Senate affecting the student body of the College of Industries 
; as a whole, such notices to be posted on the bulletin boards and published 
| in the school paper.
Section The Senate shall: 
j (a) Authorize general assemblies-of the College of Industries as maybe
i (Jeemed necessary.
(b) Regulate the conduct of Industries’ men on the campus including 
¦ the making of Freshmen regulations as provided for in the By-Laws.
(c) Have supervision of the Industries, club room, and the Industries 
Senate bulletin board.
(d) Supervise election of the representatives of, the College of Indus- 
i tries to inter-school offices as provided for by the Election Regulation of the
Student Council.
(e) Have power to levy, collect and expend assessments to cover neces- 
: sary expenses.
(f) Have power to act on and decide all questions pertaining to relations
I between the Administration and the student body.
(g) Have power to excuse Freshmen from regulations. The President 
; of the Senate shall confer with the Chairman of the Four School Freshman 
¡Regulation Committee before taking action.
(h) All powers are limited to the limitations as set forth in Art. 8.
Article Five—Organization.
Section 1. Tho officers shall be a President, a Vice President, a Secre­
tary and a Treasurer.
(a) Election. The President shall be elected by the Senate from among 
! Its Senior members after the class elections in the Spring. He must bo a 
j registered Sonior during his term of office. The term of office shall be 
1 throughout his Senior year.
The Vice President shall be elected by the Senate from among its Senior 
members after the President has been elected. His terms of office shall be 
throughout SEST Senior year.
The Secretary shall be elected from among the Sophomore members after 
¡the class elections in the Spring.
The Treasurer shall be elected from the Junior class, by the members 
of the class. Ho shall act as an Assistant Treasurer to the Student Council 
during his Junior year with voting privileges, and shall act as a Senior 
I representative during the following year. His election shall take place at 
tho Spring elections.
(b) Duties:
1. The President, shall preside at all authorized assemblies of the 
College of Industries; shall have the power to call special meetings of the 
Assembly of the Collogo of Industries when he dooms such meetings neces-
Isary; shall preside at. all mootings of the Senate when present; shall have the 
; power to call special meetings of tlio Semite when he deems such meetings 
necessary; and shall perform other duties usually associated with tills office.
2. Tho Vico President shall act in tho capacity of the President in the 
absence of the l'resldont. He shall act as Chairman of the Program Com-
' mlttoo for assemblies.
:i. The Secretary shall keep a record of the proceedings of all sessions 
¡(if the Senate; shall handle all correspondence of the Senate; shall keep a 
record and roll c-ull of all members of the Senate, with the dato of tlioir 
eloctIon; shall act as tho Chairman «if the Election Committee of the College 
of Industries, as directed by tho PJloctlon Regulations of tho Student Council; 
and shall post such notices on tho Senate bulletin board and in the school 
paper as directed by the Senate or tho President.
4 Tho Treasurer shall have charge of all the funds of the Senate and 
I tho College of Industries as a body.ArticIc Six—By-Laws.
Section 1. The Senate may pass such By-Laws as.it may deem' neces­
sary. An assenting vote of two thirds of tho Senate present being required 
! for the enactment.Article Seven—Initiative.
Section 1. A petition signed by one hundred (100) students or more 
(75 per cent of whom must be enrolled in degree courses) enrolled in the 
College of Industries shall be sufficient to require the Senate to take a vote 
on any matter desired, within two (2) weeks from the time the petition is 
' presented to the President.
Article Eight—Referendum.
Section 4.. Any action taken by the Senate shall be accepted by the 
¡student body, with the following exception:
(a) A petition signed by one hundred (100) students or more (75 per 
i cent of whom must be enrolled in degree courses) enrolled in' the College of 
Industries shall make it necessary for the Senate to submit the question 
: to a vote of the three classes; the sections of the Freshman class assigned 
to the Senate of the College of Industries at the time the petition is pre-, 
serited, and the non-degree group within two (2) weeks from the date the 
J petition is presented to the Senate.
v CAMPUS COMMENTS -I*
•J* *
* .J. .J. .J. .J. .J. .•« .j. .j. .j. ,j. .j.
(Contlnuod From Pae:e One.) 
tlvitloa by tho other members of Ills 
class."
"Vesuvius" Blair, Commorolul En­
gineer, ’24, says:
"Froshmon have ontiroly too much 
work. They havo so much to do, that 
they do not havo tho tlino to go into 
activities If they wnntod to. And if 
one does not start when ono is a 
Freshman to go in for things, ono 
might just as well stay out ^to­
gether."
Joo Major, also n Sonior in the 
Commorclal Engineering course, 
says:
"Freshmen won't go in for activi­
ties unless forced, and I think an aid 
for them Is to become pledges in some 
fraternity. A green Plebe doesn't 
realize that what you get out of a 
machine, you must put in, and in this 
capacity he needs guided.’’
What do you think about it?
(b) To reverse the action of the Senate, a majority vote of each of the 
¡three classes; Freshman section (as in (a)), and non-degree group is neces- 
; sary. The restraining petition must be presented to the President within 
ten (10) days of the time the student body receives notice of the action 
| of the Senate.
Article Nine—Recall of Members.
Section 1. Any member of the Senate may be recalled at any time by a 
' two-thirds vote of the members of his class. A representative of the Senate, 
¡appointed by the President, shall supervise this vote.
Article Ten—Amendments.
Section 1. This constitution may be amended by the assenting vote of 
I two-thirds of the members of the Senate; three classes; Freshman sections 
| (as Art. S, Sec. 1-a), and non-degree group, but siich vote cannot be taken 
until two (2) weeks after the proposed, amendment has been posted on the 
! Senate Bulletin Board and has been published in the school paper.
Article Eleven—Ratification.
Section 1. This constitution shall be deemed ratified and shall go into 
¡effect immediately upon receiving favorable vote of the majority of the 
members present at a regularly scheduled session of the Industries assembly.
HONORARIES' DANCE
SET FOR MARCH 14
(Continued From Pago One.) 
tho dato is Friday evoning, March 14,
; and will bo In tho Carnogio Union. 
i The music will bo provided by the Col- 
llogihto Imps, and wo havo their assur- 
i unco that botwoon the hours of 9 and 
1. they will prove to those attending 
that they aro masters in their art. 
Furtlior than that thoy will produce 
such muBical novelties as will bo re­
membered for somo time to como.
REMEMBER you of tho Sociotios!! 
A good time will bo had.by all, and if 
you fail to attend, you will not only 
have mlssod a very ohjoyablo evening, 
but will be sorry for having done so.
EVER BEEN IN BARCELONA?
i *2* There are a number of good • 
! * openings on Tho Tartan busi- • 
| v ness stair. Applicants call at • 
; Room 5A, Industries.
[ * v v <- 4 •*- »2* v %- *
PORTRAYAL OF CLASSICAL
PERIOD BY MUSIC DEPT.
(Continued From Page One.)
"Se vuol ballare, Signor contlno” 
(Le Nozze di Figaro)
John Gumbert
8. Wolfgang Amadous Mozart.. Aria, 
"Batti, Batti’’ (Don Giovanni)
Gertrude Fraley
9. Franz Poter Schubert. String 
Quartet, No. G, in D minor (1797- 
1827)
Theme and Variations 
Francis Ivleyle, Max Silverman, 
Adolph Ilerzberg, George Wilkins 
Accompanist—Matthew Norman Frey 
The next historical recital will be 
given March 30, 1924. "The Romantic 
Period".
The Bolted Door. A long and suc­
cessful run for Mr. Stevens’ new play, j 
One foresaw a New York success,1 
even after the dress rehearsal and | 
the attitude of the audience at the j 
first night confirmed it. The play it- j 
self richly deserves to succeed. It is ; 
built on a theme of deep and touch- j 
ing humanity; it is handled with dra-, 
matic skill; it has genuinely clever 
dialogue and characters who are real 
Without the garbage pail realism into 
which modern serious drama has re­
acted from Victorian prettiness.
Although the Bolted Door touches 
upon pathology, superstition, and ras­
cality, the authors have kept it all 
in an atmosphere of sanity, balance, 
and understanding. Therefore the au­
dience had an evening of genuine and 
wholesome enjoyment; such a combi­
nation of sentiment and fun and 
thought as some of us old fashioned 
folk still think that the theater 
should offer.
The. most interesting character in 
the play v/as Mr. Leclerque, interpret­
ed by Vemer Halden. Mr. Halden 
gave us a. man of distinction; intel­
lectually. and socially an aristocrat. 
Throughout the first act he was so 
perfectly a scientist ,with a vein of 
faith or credulity, the'Sir Oliver Lodge 
sort of person, that his cynical lines 
to his accomplice at the .close of the 
act were for the audience a dramatic 
revelation. There was a nice con­
trast between him and the other three 
impostors (played by John Beistel, 
Jack Daniels and Ellsworth Perrin) 
which was the result of skillful act­
ing all around. John Beistel made 
of Mr. Harpster’s ineffectiveness a 
dramatically effective foil for Lecler­
que. He showed discretion in play­
ing the part straight, omitting the 
character acting which has hereto­
fore seemed his metier. Jack Dan­
iels was colorless where he should 
be, and vividly amusing in the sho\v- 
up scene. Perrin furnished the "Mr. 
Sludge” type without which no se­
ance play would be complete. Philip 
Thorn gave us his usual finished com­
edy, and Hardie Albright his usual 
winning juvenile lead.
The chief woman’s part was played 
with distinction, intelligence, and 
feeling by Mary Brown. She made 
a charming autocrat, and she played 
the emotional scenes as a gentlewo­
man should, with sentiment but with­
out sentimentality. Margaret Ripley 
succeeded well with the difficult part 
of Ann. One did not wonder that such 
an Ann should give Asa the creeps.
It goes without saying that where 
a group of highly individual actors 
have carefully fitted their parts to the 
spirit of the play we infer the pres­
ence of very careful and intelligent di­
recting.
Here’s wishing* the play a long and 
successful run in New York, before 
audiences as enthusiastic as the one ! 
in the Arts Theater first night.
ALLENE GREGORY.
I v> MUSIC
Last Sunday night’s recital by the 
Department of Music was illustrative 
of "The Age of Bach and Handel.” 
In this period we view the culmina­
tion of the work of the composers 
represented in the first recital of 
this “Historical Series,” on March 9.
These composers left contrapuntal 
music in its infancy and it was the 
next sixty years that were produc­
tive of the two greatest of melodic 
writers. Bach and Handel, and of 
the development of the fugue and 
the oratorio.
The Bach numbers played) Sunday 
were the “Double Concerto” for two ¦ 
violin3 and piano, performed by Ed­
ward Stribney, Raymond Bandi and 
Alice Nelson; "Chromatic Fantasy and 
Fugue'’ for piano by Katherine 
Hessler; a “Fantasy and Fugue” for 
organ by John Groth, and an aria, 
‘My Heart Ever Faithful” from 
“Penticost.”
These compositions, which were 
typical of Bach, made us feel the 
spiritual and immortal beauty of his 
work.
The Handel numbers were three 
selections from oratorios: “O Sleep
Why Dost Thou Leave Me” from 
“Semele,” sung by Gizella Trautman; 
"Lord, to Thee Each Night and 
Day," from “Theodora,” sung by El- 
inore Steenson; "O Had I Rubai’s 
Lyre,” from “Joshua,” sung by Juliet 
Bartletti, and a “Passacaglia" for 
violin and viola, played by Max Sil­
verman and Francis Kleyle.
Those Handel numbers well illus­
trated the .broadness of outline and 
the tyjpth of feeling: characterizing 
the works of' tins’ composer.
AND THAT’S THAT
Young Wife: "If this is an all-
wool rug, why is it labeled ‘cotton’?'
Clerk (confidentially1): “That, mad­
am, is to deceive the months.”--Ex­
change.
I LOVE AN ENGINEER. DO YOU7
(Continued From Page One.) 
ing far away from the campus seem 
to have the best long distance men? 
One guess.
Wally Steffen will be at the next 
general assembly. Won’t need to 
-urge the students to turn out then.
Every season is football season at 
colleges. Hope Wally has some 
good dope.
There must be something to it. 
Any team which can be coached by 
long d.stance telephone to beat Pitt, 
sure has some coaching.
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
with the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience un- 
[ , necessary; no canvassing. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newswnters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y.
ONLY those who have 
smoked Melachrinos 
can judge the quality 
of the finest Turkish 
tobacco.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
.-JI 12I [THELISSI COP^ SJI fOLP^ 1yIous
aIt’s on even when it’s off”
(Does this slogan about the Hinge-Cap deserve a prize ?
If not, what better one can you suggest? Read our offer)
$250 in Prizes
Forthebest sentenceof ten 
words or less on the value 
of the Williams Hinge-Cap, 
we offer the folio wine 
prizes: 1st prize. $100; 2nd 
prize, $50; two 3rd prizes. 
$25 euch: two 4th prizes,$10 
enclr,sixStli prizes,$5 each. 
Any undergradunte or 
graduutc student is ellgi- 
ble. If two or more persona 
submit identical ttlogunti 
deemed worthy of prizes, 
the full amount of the prize 
will be awarded to cach. 
Contest closes at mid­
night March 14, 1924; Win­
ners will be announced 
as soon thereafter as 
possible. Submit any 
number of slogans but 
write on one side of paper 
only, putting numc, ad­
dress, collegc and class at 
top of each sheet. Address 
letters to Contest Editor, 
The J. B. Williams Co., 
Glastonbury, Conn.
WILLIAMS is a wonderfully 
popular shaving cream. Here’9 
why:—It’s heavier, faster - working 
lather, the way it lubricates the path 
of the razor and eliminates painful fric­
tion, the soothing ingredient which 
keeps the skin so smooth and cool even 
in daily shaving—these are qualities 
men like ! They also like its purity— 
no artificial coloring. With the new 
Hinge-Cap, Williams is winning more 
friends than ever before. See if you 
ever used a shaving cream as good.
WilliamsShaving Cream

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 11. 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&
iP LA ID ATHLET ICS
&
INTER-SCHOLASTIC A\EET ¡TARTAN FIVE FALLS
TO BE HELD HERE A\AY 10
The Ei'ghtn Inter-Scholastic Thack 
meet will be held this year on May 
10, and a record attendance is looked 
for from the high schools of the 
tri-state section.
The meet this year will be con­
fined to high school teams only, the 
Prep schools having a separate com­
petition. This arrangement will 
make the fivalry more intense aiid 
stimulate greater interest on the 
part of high schools.
The meet last year was handled 
by Chuck Hollingsworth and was a 
great success. Fifty schools were en­
tered and 850 high schools and prep 
school boys participated.
This meet, the. eighth annual, is be­
ing handled by H. P. Rassbach, who |> 
is making efforts to surpass last' 
year’s attendance record. The fra­
ternities will take care of the boys 
from distant towns. It is a prize op­
portunity to make an impression of 
Skibo hospitality upon a group of 
promising high school youths.
Manager Rassbach is at present 
working on the further details of of 
the meet. This information will be 
released., later through the Tartan. 
It is as yet too early to give an es­
timate of the number of teams which 
will likely be entered, but the Car­
negie Tech Inter-Scliolastic has be­
come one of the most popular high 
school events of the local track sea-
BEFORE ALLEGHENY
Methodists Chalk Up 36-30 
Victory b.y Consistent 
. Well-Played Game
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
ELIMINATIONS IN 
W.P.I.A.L. GAMES
CUBS PASS PLEBES in _ PLAID SHAKES JINX 
CUBSP AUSBLSE iLn_4 QB HOME C0URT
You have tried the REST 
Now try the BEST.
Come to the
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason­
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Adv.
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLE’S BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
The place you have been look­
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
Assurance
Wherever there is a banking 
center this bank i3 known. 
Those travelers availing 
themselves of Mellon letters 
of credit, or travelers’ checks 
are assured of the recogni­
tion which follows Identifica­
tion with well and favorably 
known banking interests.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbujjp^h, Pa.
The Tartan quintet dropped its 
tenth straight game last Monday night 
when it went down to defeat before 
the ' fast Allegheny College team in 
the new gymnasium by the score of 
36-30.
In the initial period the SKibos got 
off to a good start ana had chalked 
up a 10-8 decision at the end of the 
icrst quarter. The second quarter 
found the Plaid displaying a miserable 
brand of basket ball and it was in this 
period that the Methodists made the 
points that spelled their victory. In 
this short period the Allegheny Five 
scored 14 points to the three scored 
by the Plaid ending the half with a 
score of 22-13.
The final half ot U\e game round the 
Tartans coming back strong outpoint­
ing their opponents in both quarters 
of the second half. Mefort, who had 
been absent from the squad for sev­
eral weeks replaced Reed at center 
in this period and played a- hard game 
giving Judd plenty to handle. Matter 
the fleety little forward played a very 
hard game and caged several field 
goals despite the close guarding of the 
Methodists. *
If the Sltibos had played the type of 
game the second quarter that they 
displayed in the other parts of the 
game they would be carrying the first 
victory in the new gymnasium in their 
belts.
Matter starred, for the Plaid while 
there was no individual star in tlie 
Allegheny five as they all played n 
hard consistent game.
The score:
Allegheny—36 Carnegie—30 .
Ross...................... F......................Matter
McClurg..............: F................Anderson
Judd.................... C.........................Reed
Dale..................... G...........t. Robertson
Wolf.....................G..........................Beede
Substitutions—Mohrman for Rob­
ertson, Robertson for Anderson, Me­
fort for Reed, Anderson for Mohrman. 
Reed for Beebe, Fries for McClurg. 
Field goals—Matter, Anderson 2, Rfced 
3, Robertson 2, Ross 5, McClurg 4, 
Judd 2, Wolf 3. Foul goals—Matter 
7 out. of 9, Anderson none out of 1, 
Reed 2 out oi' 3, Beede none out of 
2, Robertson 5 out of 8, Ross 3 out of 
0. McClurg 4 out of 7, Judd 1 out of 1, 
Wolf none out of 1. Team fouls—Car­
negie Tech. 14 out of 23, Allegheny 8 
ouV of 14. Referee—Beggs S'nyder.
Umpire—Roger M. Baird. Time of pe­
riods—10 minutes.
HOW FEROCIOUS WILL THE LION BE?
Fresh from a victory over the renowned Panther, the Plaid quintet is 
now being groomed to meet the strong Nittany Lion of Penn State. Wed­
nesday night should see a capacity audience to witness the last act of the 
current Skibo basket ball season. Furthermore, Wednesday night should see 
the fastest basket ball yet displayed on the new gymnasium floor.
Impartial observers do not concede the Plaid much chance to win from 
the Blue and White. But impartial observers did not expect a victory over 
Pitt last week, which was the first since March S. 1918. The jinx which 
has seemed to hover over the new gym has been broken, confidence has been 
restored among the members of the team, and the student body is heart and 
soul behind the squad. Under such circumstances, there can be no doubt 
about the team putting up the best, fight of the season against heavy odds.
Penn State without a doubt has one of the best teams that the Plaid 
has ever faced. Johnny Reed, the flashy forward who contributed so much 
to previous victories, is' still in the lineup and can be depended upon to fur­
nish sonte thrills. We believe the score will be close, regardless of who is 
victorious. State has by far the more enviable record of games won. We 
have the advantage of playing on the home court. Further than that, we do 
not care to prophesy.
Edge wood, Monessen, Home­
stead and Connellsville 
Triumph
GROVE CITY CONTEST IS OFF
At the time we go to print, it seems certain that the Grove City game, 
I scheduled for Tuesday night, is definitely off. The gymnasium is being used 
| for the W. P. I. A. L. games and it is probable that no suitable arrangement 
for playing off the game at another time will be made. We i-egret that this 
j is so, for Grove City has for many years been a big attraction on the local 
I basket ball card. The respite, however, will be of beneliTTo the team in their 
preparation for Penn State tomorrow night. So many games recently have 
had an effect bn the athletes, and they are in need of a rest.
A TEST OF SPIRIT
It is exceptional for the course of a man’s life to run smoothly on to the 
j end, without stormy rapids in the way or seemingly impregnable obstacles 
¡to carve its way through. It-is not at the times of success that a man’s 
j character and spirit meet their test. It is at the time when, the affairs of liis 
I life seem at their lowest, without a ray of hope to guide him, that he is 
I tested for the spirit within.
So it has been, with the student body at Carnegie Tech during the closing 
¡basket ball season. The team was losing with disheartening regularity. But 
I because the team did not quit, but fought as liard as they knew how during 
every game, they have received better backing by the students than has any 
other basket ball team for many years. Carnegie Tech used to be spoken of 
! as a school that cheered its hardest when its teams were losing. We can now 
,see that the reputation was well founded. The effect of the new gym cannot 
I be discounted, but our statement holds true that this year has seen more 
¡school spirit displayed at basket ball .games than during any year within our 
j memory. .
The most conspicuous case was that, of the Pitt game at Motor Square 
Garden. Another was'the case of the Allegheny game, when, without the 
leadership of the cheer leaders, .a group of students started some rousing old 
I Carnegie battle songs in which the entire Skibo rooting section joined. The 
I same thing happened at the Geneva game last Friday.
It has been a source of encouragement to the team to feel that, even in 
I defeat, the student body was with them.
Defendant (In loud voice:) “Jus­
tice! Justice! I demand justice!” 
Judge: ‘Silence! The defendant
will please remember that he is in 
a courit room.”
I LOVE AN ENGINEER. DO YOU?
ABILITY 
The ABILITY of an insurance 
agent or broker Is proven after 
a loss and the result of the loss 
adjustment is the foundation of 
his future success. At this time 
personality and friendship are 
forgotten. Skill, knowledge and 
service count.
Put Your Insurance In Safe 
Hands.
JOS. P. FISHER AGENCY 
Established 1886 
PITTSBURGH 
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554
DAVIES and HUGHES
cTVIEN’S WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
LET’S TRIM Ì’HE LION’S WHISKERS TOMORROW, WHAT DO YOU
Freshman and Varsity 
Tennis Men Practice
SPRING SPORTS START AS 
CANDIDATES ARE CALLED
Arnold Fink, New Coach. 
Holds Discussion on Practice
With tlie continued falling of snow, 
Carnegie Tech tennis enthusiasm is 
rapidly rising, and it is freely pre­
dicted that ere me present coating 
of snowflakes has. made its exit, the 
aforesaid enthusiasm will be at a 
fever-heal.
In proof of our statement, we 
would call your attention to the 
fact, that some twenty odd asiprant 
tennis players reported to the con­
clave conducted by our flow conch, 
Arnold Fink, yesterday afternoon, in 
the varsity club room.
From all appearances, pi'ospects do 
not appear of a roseate hue now, due 
to many and sundry causes. Per­
haps the best cause is the failure to 
return to school of absolutely every 
member of last year’s varsity. This 
fact in itself is enough to prove the 
above claim. It is on this account 
that Coach Fink intends carrying a 
large squad throughout the season, 
Intends making all efforts towards 
developing new men, not only for 
this season but for those to come. 
Fink assures every man in school 
who has ever had any experience 
whatever in the game that, if he will 
only come out, he will receive full 
coaching in the art of tennis playing 
as "she should be,”
Manager Jones and Simpson of the 
varsity and Freshman team respect­
ively, are busy preparing a suitable 
schedule,, which will be published in 
the very near future. Suffice to say 
all teams in this district will be play­
ed by the varsity and a few from 
far climes will be met on the home 
courts.
“What awWe of a difference ; 
just a few cents make !”
—all the difference 
, between just an ordinary cigarette
:\ and—FATIMA, the most skillful
blend in cigarette history.
Last Tuesday afternoon Coach 
Guy 1-lalferty, who helped carry off 
honors for the Plaid In ¿lie schools 
early days, met the candidates for 
the varsity and Freshman track 
j teams at the field house, 
i Tho coach gave a brief tulle on 
i prospects for the coming season, suy- 
I ing that the late start we are got- 
; ting will mean hard plugging by 
; every one, and that a mediocre team 
j will probably result, Tor tho reason 
! that lew letter men are left from 
I last year, and the first year men are 
not eligible for varsity competition 
under the new rules.
Coach Halferty also common tod on 
the schedule, stressing the' Impor­
tance of the Ponn Relays, and say­
ing that the program, as a whole, 
was very well balanced.
When called upon to say a word,
: “Howdy” Dykoman, whq has prob­
ably taken more first place« than 
J any other Tartan athlete, advised 
the follows to take their work sorl- 
! ously] from the first, and to como 
I out for practice as regularly as pos­
sible.
j Among those out for varsity track 
i are: L. E. Smith, Seaman, Dyke-
j man, Yoder, Roto, Serabian, ftussoau, 
| Darmon, Wendlandt, LustonberKor, 
Luty, Schwab, Pencil, Nelson, Hum­
bert, Klmmel, Phillips,; Stlbs, Stark, 
I Bielski, Do|g, Palumbo, Dyke, Kra- 
j rner, Bright, Riddle, Foller, Goll- 
walls, I-Iinderer.
Those out for the Freshman team 
are: Webster, Lockard, McKinney,
Weber, Wyatt, BuIJinger, Woods, 
Ashwell. Peak, Warren, Stults, Kin- 
eriem, Flowers, Sheppard, Starkey, 
Harmon, Doty, Hamilton, Bridges, 
Schumacher, Hohe, Cochrane,- Clark, 
I Giles, Nimick, Carter, Himes, Holm.
Baseball also received its start 
| last week. The baltery practices 
held in Langley Lab. have uncover­
ed some good material, and Coach 
A1 Irwin is well pleased with the 
work so far.
As soon as the weather breaks, a 
call for candidates will be .issued, 
and practices will» then be held on 
Sfchenley Oval, our home grounds.
The graduate manager’s office has 
sent out letters to the members of 
the 1922 team, and in a few days the 
captain of this season’s team will 
be announced.
Those out for the pitching staff 
are: Koppes, Lynch, Lazarus, Thom­
as, Basset, Buechling, Leberknight, 
Schoor, Conard, Bielski.
The catchers are: Cupp*, Hable. C'. 
J. Anderson, Diffley, Keown, Ryzg, 
Silverman, Shell and D. I. Turner.
The call for Sophomore assistant 
managers has been answered by 
Krebs, Murphy, otandeven, Cochrane, 
Osier, Harris, Gaylor and West.
INNOVATIONS TO MARK
ANNUAL SCIENCE STAG
(Continued From Pago One.) 
ior; Kramer, Sophomore; and Hollo­
way, Freshman, are rapidly nearing 
completion and according to prelimi­
nary reports will eclipse, In the mat­
ter of clean, clever and unique humor, 
any stunts which have heretofore been 
staged at these annual frolics.
The problem of furnishing a suffi­
cient supply of eats and smokes for 
the affair has been attended to and ar­
rangements have been completed to 
care for six hundred men.
Well Dressed Woman: I’m going
j upstairs to change my clothes. These 
shoes hurt my feet.^-The Bear Cat.
CAN YOU SHIP AHOY?
The W. P. I. A. L. championship 
games on the Tartan flooV* have 
proveu to be the most hotly contested 
yet seen on tho local court. In only 
one game has the victor marched from 
tho fioor with the feeling of having 
really conquered to the satisfaction of 
everyone. Homestead reserved the 
right above all others to say that they 
have won their initial championship 
battle by a. fair margin of superiority.
All of the other contests yet played 
have, been close, exciting and full ^ of 
heart-breaking moments for both 
teams concerned. The series will con­
tinue uutil March 22, when tho final 
leg will be fought and the spoils of 
victoiy turned over to the winner.
The first game was last Tuesday, 
when Edgewood High School dofonted 
Ford City in a rough and tumble af­
fair during which one of the Ford City 
players was ejected from tho game for 
undue roughness. Tho Edgewood boys 
held a slight margin most of tho way, 
but frequently were tied, and now and 
then passed, by tlie fast Ford City 
players. The last quarter saw the 
fastest' playing of the game, Edge­
wood triumphing by one point, 2*1-23.
The second game of the series, that 
between Allegheny High and Mones- 
sen, likewise was hard fought and ond- 
ed with a score of 27-20, favor the Mo- 
nessen representatives. This game, 
like tho one preceding, was not de­
cided untij the final whistle blew. Mo-' 
nessen fought hard ail through tho 
gan,ie, and finally came from behind 
In tho last quarter to win. Allogheny 
missed many shots from tho court and 
from the.free throw line.
Homestead entered tho rray against 
McKees Rocks on Thursday night a 
favorite, and provod that tho trust of 
its backers was not ill-placed, when 
the former crashed through a victor 
by the ’Comfortable margin of 28-13. 
This contest was also hard fought, but 
as tho score Indicates, the Homestoiid 
outfit was master of tho situation 
most of the time.
On Saturday, the leadership of Soc- 
tion IV was decided between Beaver 
Falls and Now Brighton, the former 
winning largely through speed and 
ability to cage free throws. This was 
a very exciting contest, and tho score 
was 2*1-22 when (he final pistol shot 
sounded. Tho Boiwor Falls team mot 
the Edgowood team in the first gnmo 
of the second round last night, but the 
results are not obtainable at the tlmo 
of going to press.
Tho Boavor Falls-Now Brighton 
game was Saturday afternoon. Satur­
day night also was ocouplod with a 
game, that between the teams of Oon- 
nollttvillo and Tarontum. In the early 
stages of the game, both teams fol­
lowed tho hitJl closely and little scor­
ing was done. Tarontum, however, 
seemed to be master of tho situation. 
But during the latter stages of the 
game. Connellsville found their strldo 
and finally camo out. ahead of their 
rivals by tho score of 21-20.
All or tho games havo been well 
attended and hard fought. With the 
narrowing of tho series to the second 
and third rounds, tho rivalry and at­
tendance aro expectod to Increase.
SKIBOS INVADE ENEMY
I GROUNDS AND WIN, 32-25
(Continued From Page One.) 
and Ills long shots from the middle 
of tho floor kept the Panthers on tho 
,ragged edge. Andorson also got his 
long range shots working, with the 
result that everything was rosy.
It has been a long, long time since 
the 'Sklbos defeated Pitt in basket ball, 
but they surely did the job right whoa 
they did. It seems to be a common 
occurrence now to defeat Pitt, and wo 
have a hunch there will be more of it 
in the future.
This great victory broke a losing 
streak of ten straight games for the 
Tartans, and It augers well for us in
the games with Grove City and Penn
State, two strong teams that yet re­
main to be played.
The lineup:
Carnegie—32 Pitt—25
Matter..................F....................Levinson
Anderson (C.)... F..................Parsons
Mefort................ C. ...........Flanagan
Robertson.......... G........................King
Reed................... G................(C.) Carr
Score by periods:
Carnegie ..................... 8 7 8 9—32
Pitt ............................... 1 3 10 11—25
Field goals—Matter 3, Anderson 4, 
Robertson 2, Reed 2, Bohren 2, Levin­
son 3, Parsons, Carr. Foul goals—Car­
negie 10 out of 17; Pitt, 11 out of lfi. 
Substitutions — Bohren .for King, 
James for Parsons, Parsons for James, 
Mohrman for Robertson, Beede for 
Reed. Referee—Cal Bolster. Umpire 
—A1 Slack.
Dam on—
"ff«yt liter«}I Aren't you a friendof Milne?"
Pythias—
"f cortnliily mii, I'M do nnytliliifr In the world for you, Yen, <mj- Ihiwjl"
Damon—
"All ri«hk—prove Iti (Jive me Iwiek that KMor;ulo pendi you borrowed . lUHt Ill*ht."
INOVA
"the master drawingpendi
17 Itadt—all draltn
It was a badly disappointed Plobo 
aggregation that left tho fioor at Mo­
tor Square Garden last Friday night 
after having lost to tho strong Pitt 
Freshman five by the small margin of 
27*2*1. Until the last quarter, it 
seemed that a victory was about to 
crown their efforts. But tho Cubs 
would not bo denied and camo back 
in tho final stanza with a rush which 
swept, them ahead of the tired Plobo 
squad.
Tho Plaid yearlings out-played and 
out-scored tho Panthers for three- 
quarters of the game. But tho old 
tale a team not being any stronger 
than its substitutes is the explanation 
of the Tartan defeat; The Plobo 
squad has been reduced to such »in 
extent that only one fresh man coulh 
be sent in during the entiro gnmo.
It was discouraging and dishearten­
ing for the Skibo Freshmen when vic­
tory seemed to smile on them and 
then in the end have her snatched 
away.
Both teams played good ball and 
showed decided improvement ovor 
their form displayed in tho previous 
encounter. The lineup:
Lynch................. F..........................Mayo
Plummer............ F. .......Campbell
Hamilton............ C.......................Grimm
Forbes................. C,..................Rickman
Levinson.............. G.....................I.Black
1 cull my girl Niagara for short be­
cause she falls for everyone.—Red 
and Black.
EVER BEEN IN BARCELONA?
Mah-Jong
Is Taklnn tho Country By Storm
À complot« miti In hi'btht oolorii, 
l.M tltloii, 11« counterH, 8 ruoli», Nk 
2 ilice, hook of mien unii I»- dj 
Htruetlomi; any one aim learn • 
tho Kam« In Ion mltuitoii. H’n 
very fanolnatlmf. All In at­
tractive box. noni propali! on 
receipt of $1.00 (Cannila "fio1
extra).
Table Covers
tot I v<> n I nalc Hntoon Vt) 
Table Cover, with 
icon <lonliriiii, mljuiit- u) 
almi oanl table; Iti •
Vory At tract I vi 
Mah-.Tomc Tabi 
colorati «Iraifon
able to any 4SAE GGGGGGGGGGGGGcounter poolcotH, utrllclnic oolnr- 
ed iilltohoil edffUH. lOxtraordlnary 
value. Spoolnl
COMBINATION OFFER
We will nomi prepaid one complote Mah- 
JonfC Hot and tahlo cover an «lunorllied 
nhovo on receipt of $2.(10.
Chlna-Amorloan Importino Co. Ill Went (IHtli Street Now York
2
Geneva Takes Short Porticra 
of 27-23 Score in Fast 
Home Battle
The Tartan passers annexed aiu- 
other victory when they boat 
speedy Geneva quintet, 27-23 ini ai 
snappy conflict in the new CnrnegS* 
Tech gym.
Aside for a few minutes of , Uw 
first quarter, the Plaid led throur,»-*- 
out the game. The Sklbos being stead­
ier than their opponents, worked • Ow> 
ball down the fioor making thair, 
passes sure and their shots eoumf,. 
while the Covenanters tossed the baM 
from all angles of tho fioor 
seemed unable to find the basket. 
fort, who was playing drop contor, w,, 
always up in tho air waiting for the, 
ball as it rebounded from the bacfe- 
board. The GendVa quintet had many , 
more shots at the basket than did tli© 
Plaid, but they seldom found tho 
range.
Jimmy Robertson, playing his firsit 
year on the basket ball team, was tb« 
star of the game, scoring 11 of ihm 
points. Matter and Anderson als*» 
played a good game, Matter makiiaj; 
10 points.
The team is now in good shape aail 
ready for action, having overcome Ubo 
effects of regular practices missod 
the squad during exam week and dat­
ing tho ban around school. The ias£ 
game of the season will bo played 
Wednesday night with Ponn State, 
and we expect to see a capacity house 
and lots of spirit and enthusiasm. Ttw> 
lineup:
Tech—27 Geneva—23 <
Andorson (C.)... F.......................Shape
Matter................. F.................Llpschitr.
Mefort................. C.......................ClarX
Robertson......... G....................Danvcr
Rood................... G...........(C.) Heckottl
Tech ....................... r. 0 !) 4—23"
Qonova ................... 3 7 G 7—2*
WRKSUTS
after every meal
CIcanivcN monili and teeth until aids dljjeistlon.
HcUcvcn that over­eaten ledine an«l aeld month.Its a-n-s-t-l-n-ij Havor Nallsfileis the c&'avlnfi Hor NweetAi.
Wrljftey*« In donhle value Bn the heneUlt uud 
pleuNtirc It provide«.
tttutthlréj
M
ADE for college men who demand dis­
tinctive individuality in their clothes.
Jacket with soft 
front tailored to 
roll; straight, sleeves 
and full shoulders. 
Trousers cut wide 
in the comfortable 
English manner.
Dn>uhire Clothes 
are designed after a 
pattern which has 
never changed — even after 35 years of 
popularity.
You know tht suit!
.
Sole Distributor In Pittsburcjh and Vicinity. 
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
Smlthfield Street and Seventh Avenue
ALL SET I LET’S GO
—TO—
A Night In Bohemia
¦ -AT THE—
MUSIC BOXW. a. MATI1ES, Proprietor 
5921 PENN AVENUE ¦ Hiland 9670
Pittsburgh’s Good Time Restaurant and Cabaret. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1924
Make Your Reservations NOW
No Additional Cover Charge.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN
?
TUESDAY. MARCH 11, 1924
.-JI12 [.TH
Field of the College of Engineering
(By Director William E. Moti.)
Tho chief aim of till the courses of 
»Turiy offered in tho College of Engin 
wring In to train young men to think 
--primarily, In term's of BClönliilc facts 
and laws—hut whether tho proplém In 
ftand is scientific, or not, tho sclon- 
tdflc or engineering habit of mind In 
«ho Important thing. Many of the 
problems which tho engineer has to 
uolvo are not capalile of an accurate 
solution In tho mathematical EEIEE4IM
Iiut a sound conclusion depends upon 
tin ability to discover all the facts per­
tinent to tho case, Hound judgment an 
*o the relative Importance of these 
Jiicts, (arti they really facto?) and then 
.a careful and unerring application of 
tho known lawn of chemistry, physics, 
mechanics, etc., to those facts. Thus, 
J>rlcfly, may we derive ii scientific so­
lution of our problem. But just höre 
many engineers' "fall down.” This 
scientifically accurate product may he 
inappropriate, or ovon Impossible, an 
a part of a larger scheme or project, 
lit may not ho economically sound-r- 
and here enter« another factor which 
Älie imccosHful engineer must cultl- 
r«te, namely, experience.
Dr. Swain has recently simplified 
Mio dassific definition of an engineer 
in these wordHj "Engineering is the 
science and art of applying economic­
ally the laws, forcoH and materials of 
«aturo for the use, convenience, or 
onjoyment of man.'1 Wo see that the 
product of the engineer must not only 
ho theoretically correct, but also eco­
nomically wound.
It Ih interesting to note that the 
¦word "engineer" S4 derived from a 
jiaiiHcrlpt root; Jan, meaning to bo 
Born. Now, »imply becuuno a young 
man Is interested In his homemade 
wireless outfit, or ln hl» father'» Ford,
¡H not to be taken even a« prima facia 
.‘ividence that tho boy Is a "born"
Rlnoer. However, tho successful en- 
jjinoor, a» a youth, may have shown 
nn Interest In scientific matters; pos­
sessed habits of orderliness «and thor­
oughness; developed Ills Imagination, 
hut not to tho degree of bolng temper­
amental; and last, but not least, he 
may havo boon Ingenious and re­
sourceful—a loader among his fellows.
A man can not be a successful engin- 
«or and not be honest. Nature's laws 
nud materials can not be evaded iior 
trifled with, and a lock of "backbone,” 
or moral fiber, on the pnrt of the cn- 
flinecr, be he young or old, will almost 
inevitably become npparant In the pro­
duct of hlo brnln or hand.
.So much for what I concoivo to be 
the spool 11 cation of what an 'engineer 
all oil! (1 measure up to. Engineering Is 
in Ils youtli—If not In Its infancy, 
Tho first man to call himself ¡i civil 
'/mgjneer, Sinon ton, was practicing In 
ttn/dand In 1782; and to-day we havo 
ko many Itlnds of engineers that the 
vtiiiio Is fast approaching when many, 
if not all, the states will requlro a 
îfeonflo to practioe and to draw a sharp 
Hiitt botwqon the professional englii’
¦iHir and the "quaelc."
Admission to tho College of Engin* 
'I'ltrljig preBUpposos a four high school 
rounie, or Its equivalent, emphasis 
having been laid upon mathematical 
innhjecis, physios, English and one for 
language, Those, together with 
'fllodtlyo subjects, must, total not loss ! In 
ilian Ilf toon units. Tho courses of 
til,tidy aro organi/,od In such fashion 
fhal all students reçoive a thorough 
training In mathomnllcs, chemistry, 
physics and mechanics, Upon this 
síiMiind-worlc of the binds sciences are 
/mill up the more specialized and tooh 
alcal courues, and too narrow spedali 
ration Is guarded against by the re-
lulromont that all students must take 
jourses In tho elements of Civil, Elec­
trical and Mechanical Engineering.
During tho Freshman year a course 
in Industrial History presents to tho 
Indent f.he historical background of 
tho modern industrial life, of which 
he is to bocomo a part, and in the 
Sophomore year a course in tho prin­
ciples of Economics affords him an 
opportunity to lay a foundation for 
the economic aspects of his later 
work. Engineers, unfortunately, too 
often lack a good command of the 
English language. While English 
Composition Is required throughout 
tho Freshman year and additional 
English courses may be elected later 
pn, yet the proper use of English 
Should be emphasized In the prepa-
TWO MARGARET MORRISON
GRADS AT U. OF CHICAGO'
From tho University of Chicago 
comes news of former Margaret Mor­
rison students, Miss Gladys Bogue, 
'21, Is now employed In the office of 
Mr. Mallory, who is secretary of the 
Correspondence Study Department of 
the University. Her work Is to edit 
the material went out from this office.
Miss Mary Zarobsky, another former 
M. M. student Is enrolled In the Grad­
uate School of tho Chicago University 
and expects to receive her Master of 
Arts degree In June,
FORMER STUDENT IN 
FINE ARTS COLLEGE
tijry. Hciiool whore correct habit« "i. Rapidly Gaining Recognition 
writing and speaking are more easily 1
than Inengineeringacquired 
school.
In the Freshman year, again, brief 
whop courses are Introduced with a 
view to giving the student some in­
sight Into the fundamental production 
processes. Drawing Is sometimes 
called the language of the engineer. 
Ho may not himself become export 
In tills particular, method of expres­
sion, but unless he can read and In­
terpret drawings an engineer is "lost." 
Therefore, a year of training In en­
gineering drawing and descriptive 
geometry Is required of all Freshman.
How the training and knowledge 
gained by study and drill In such 
"fundamentals" are applied to special­
ized courses for Chemical, Civil, Com­
mercial; Electrical, Metallargival and 
Mining engineering, as well as for 
Chemists and Physicists, will be set 
•forth In later articles.
in Art Circles of Younger 
American Arts
Campus Week is Now 
Only 2 Months Away
Campus week preparations are mov­
ing swiftly here on the campus, The 
machinery is beginning to turn and it 
Is certain that with the generous sup­
port from the Alumni which the stu­
dents havo a right to and expect, the 
event this yoar should eclipse all those 
which havo gone bofore.
Of especial interest to Alumni Is the 
fact that all day Saturday of tho great 
week has been dedicated to tho men 
and women who havo returned to thelj* 
Alma Mater for the occasion. Several 
new things are still being planned for 
that day, but since suggestions aro 
still bolng received by tho commltteo, [ 
nothing doflnltc will he announced 
now.
Tho committee will bo more than 
pleased to hear from any Alumnus, 
who has suggestions to offer. Just 
tho fact that one graduates Iw not nec­
essary a, signal for complete with­
drawal from support of student activi­
ties, especially In the case of Campus 
Woolc, for Its primary reason Is to pro- 
vldo a definite time for home-coming 
and reunions.
Now, don't toll us that you did not 
have time to plan ahead to como, for 
If you can't squeeze those four days 
In when you know of II two montlni.
advance, then you are a darn poor 
manager and we are not so suro wo 
miss much by not having you boro.
Tho younger members of the Alum­
ni body will all he hero, so will a good 
many others. The secret In their 
«uses Is tho mngls sentence:
"I bane doro boforo I I I I I l”
I LOVL AN ENGINEER. DO YOU?
Every now and then little bits of 
pleasant gossip about former students 
comes back to the oars of Carnegie. 
Such pleasant nows lmw reached up 
about John R. Hallam,. Jr, a graduate 
of the College of Fine Arts. Mr. Hal- 
lain began Ills early training in art 
in the local public schools. He dis­
played considerable talent and later 
attended tho art department of,Wash­
ington Seminary. He also received,,In­
struction at tiie studios of C. J. Tay­
lor at Boothbay Harbor, Maine.
After Ills period of enlistment in 
the Army as a member of the Ameri­
can Expeditionary Force overseas, Mr. 
Hallam entered Carnegie Tech, and 
graduated with his degree of B. A.
He has rapidly gained recognition 
in the art world, and is in the' front 
rank among the younger American 
artists. He lias hud special exhibitions 
in several places—at the Carnegie Mu­
seum, at Carnegie Tech In Pittsburgh, 
and at Boothbay Harbor, and at Phil­
adelphia. In 1!)22 his painting "Rot­
ten Itow," moonlight scone made at 
Boothbay Harbor, was entered at the 
Associated Artists Exhibit, and was 
selected by a national jury to bo hung 
with fifteen paintings of eight con­
temporary American artists.
[ THE TELESCOPE^'WILSON MEMORIAL 
FUND UNDER WAY
In a few weeks, the yearly fes­
tival of Campus Week will be upon 
us. Every year since it» incoption, I Permanent Memorial Fund is
It has been more and more success­
ful, and every year there have been 
more and more of the old’ gangs 
backt at Dear Old Tech.
If a man stays away, it is not 
necessarily a proof that he is an old To the memory of a man that was
fogy, but It. is an Indication well known in Pittsburgh real estate
circles and beloved by members of 
Belief!eld Presbyterian Church, a last-
Being Founded to Aid 
Students
IToct. For many It will be Impoasi- 
ble to come because of distanct or 
because of family affairs, but any 
man that allows pure business to
WHAT CARNEGIE OFFERS
IN THE FIELD OF MUSIC
(By Professor G. Keeble.) 
Prospective music students 
probably be interested to know just
i the Pittsburgh Public School system, 
will ; In the curriculum of all options an 
effort has been made to establish a 
good balance between practical and 
what is offered them in the Depart- • tiieoretiCal instruction, and considera- 
ment of Music of Carnegie. Only a j,ie importance is attached to experi- 
limited number of pupils can lie ac-! ence ¡n orchestra and ensemble per- 
cepted, but they are given individual j formance. The orchestra of ninety 
lessoils by the regular staff of the de- pieces rehearses twice a week in prep-
ing tribute is being paid by our young
prevent 1.1m from coming, la a dan, I people of that church, whose Interests 
poor manager, As for the alumnae, were foremost in his mind, 
they have always shown more spirit
was very much devoted to the young 
people, particularly Carnegie and Pitt
J. Craig Wilson, who died Deecmber 
than tho men. We have no fewl». wa» «. etder In Ms djurctt. He
for them. They never get so hide-
bound and impressed with their own 
importance to the work of tbeir 
companies that they forget that 
thoir chief business in life is not to 
make a living, but a life.
students attending the Bellefleld 
Christian Endeavor Society.
In memory to the work he has done, 
and a feeling that it should be contin­
ued, the young people of Bellefleld
FOR YOUR
St. Patrick’s Day Party
RESERVE YOUR TABLE AT THE
MUSIC BOX
5921 PENN AVENUE
SOUVENIRSSPECIAL FEATURES
PHONE HILAND 9670 
MONDAY, MARCH 17tli, 1924
SECRETARIAL BRIDGE WAS
„OVERWHELMING SUCCESS
The Benefit Scholarship Bridge, 
which the Secretarial Club held in Me- 
Creery’s Dining Room last Saturday 
afternoon, was a wonderful success, 
oven exceeding the greatest hopes of 
tho committee. AH those who attend­
ed agrood that It was a lovely party. 
Candy, in attractive boxos, was sold 
during tho afternoon, and refresh­
ments of coffee aud cake wore served.
The committee, in fact tho whole 
club, wishes to thank all those who 
contributed to their success. In tills 
they include the faculty, the alumni, 
the student a, and all the friends of 
Carnegie Tech, which classification 
encompasses many.
When tho ballot box was stuffed, 
In tho girls’ night school election and 
all tho oily papers had the scandal 
on tho front pago? ll)t!l.
Whon Director Ilamersehlng want­
ed Moorowood avenue put through to 
Woodlawn, wlioj'o the "out” now Is, 
bocauso, he said, tho girls got thoir 
sjclrts, wot crossing over? 11)13.
When Carnegie Tech won ¿rom 
0rovo City? 1013.
Whon tho engineers made bandagos 
for the soldiers, and helped tho Red 
Cross? 191 r».
Those, who have ever been to one (chrj8tIall Bndeayor Society have in- 
of these affairs will not need urp- aUg|lrated the "J. Wilson Memorial 
ing. IT they stay away, it will be pund/. ThifJ Fund ls ^ be a perma. 
for a darn good reason. But as for nent fund of ?10.000, which is to he 
the rest of you: We are going to jnVested by the trustees of the Belle-
see to it that you know what you jxejd church, the income of which is 
are refusing before you turn us j to be U8ed for wor]c \)y the Young Peo- 
down. If you don’t want to come p]es’ Organizations of that church, 
alter that, why, then the feeling is whose sphere of activity is particular-
mutual.
In connection with the Alumnae 
theater party of last week it is ex­
ceedingly to ‘be regretted that such 
difficulty as that experienced • by the
ly among Carnegie and Pitt students.
To secure a nieinorial fund which 
will be truly representative, friends 
of Mr. Wilson who came in contact 
with him through the society and 
other activities are asked to contrib-
Alumnae Association in obtaining ute. The drive is well under way and 
tickets .for one performance a year fully one-lialf of the student quota has
should be met. We believe and been secured. Checks should be made
hope that the condition will be payable to J. Craig Wilson Memorial
remedied, and that the association Fund. Mail them to Memorial .Fund
will plan to hold more than one > Committee. Bellefleld Presbyterian
such party a year. It is always Church, Fifth and Bellefleld Aves.
good for the soul of the graduate I , ----------------------------------------
to return to tho places of their
earlier conquests and flunks and es­
pecially is that true when a large
group gets together as in this oase.
Wo note that the argument about 
the Clans has ceased. vrhat is a 
good thing, too, because we could 
hardly find room now for discuss­
ing the matter. After all, It has 
been pretty well established that 
the Clans have a very definite mis­
sion and are doing their best to fill 
it, even though many shortcomings 
are noticeable, notably their shy­
ness of the spotlight of publicity.
MAD MARCH TEA PARTY 
PLANNED FOR SATURDAY
The M. M. Alumnae Is very active 
In Pittsburgh this season. The Thea­
tre Party was very successful last 
week and now the former Margaret 
Morrisonites are planning for a Mad 
March Tea Party to take place Sat­
urday afternoon from three until five 
o’clock, in the M. M. Recreation Hall.
The committee has been at some 
pains to produce an entertaining pro­
gram and it is hoped that a large num­
ber of the former Maggie Murphs will 
The start would appreciate re- “Bain visit the sacred halls of learn 
marks from Alumni In regard to the,1“® aml t0 ¡unease the general 
value of the series of articles we are ^niety the gathering. Mrs. Douglas 
running explaining the work or the haa agreetl to give several
various departments of the institu­
tion. Wo shall 'be looking for 
some; and don't load it all on your 
Clan secretary. lie has plenty to 
do now.
One hundred and thirty-six Alumni 
havo already) taken stops to learn 
tho now Alma Mater through a cor­
respondence course given by The 
Carnegie Tartan Staff. Enclose 
$1.10.
Ballard has agreed to 
readings, and that fact alone should 
bring out a goodly number.
Mrs. William H. Ilarrold is the 
chairman of the committee and has 
as her aids the following Alumnae: 
Miss Laura Green, Mrs. F. I. Gaston, 
Miss Lorna Williams and Miss Irene 
Voslcamp.
partment, and have opportunity to re­
hearse with an orchestra.
Saturday morning classes now pro­
vide an excellent preparation for the 
technical tests required of all who ap­
ply for entrance to the degree courses 
of the department. The technical 'test 
is required in addition to fifteen units 
of regular high schoql preparation: of 
which three must be in English, two 
in a foreign language and one in Gen­
eral History. Prospective students 
should be warned against loading their 
high school schedules with musical or 
other vocational subjects, which are 
estimated by the Examiner at but a 
fraction of their face value.
The Department of Music, in its col­
legiate work, provides individ­
ual instruction in voice, piano, organ 
and all the instruments of the orches­
tra, as well as class instruction in mu­
sical theory, the psychology of teach­
ing, and subjects of general cultural 
value. Five optional courses are pro­
vided, leading to the degree of Bache­
lor of Arts in Music. Most of these 
are fundamentally the same, differing 
chiefly in the degree of emphasis 
placed on various aspects of the stu­
dent’s professional equipment.
Option one puts most stress on the 
student’s proficiency on his chosen 
instrument, while Option two, demand­
ing somewhat less in the way of per­
formance in public, includes courses 
in the psychology of teaching for those 
who aim directly at becoming teach­
ers. The third Option, which includes 
the Organ students, makes additional 
requirements in the theory of music, 
and the Vocal Option calls for addi­
tional work in foreign languages. Op­
tion five, in Public Schools, is under 
the guidance of Dr. Will Earliart, and 
is consequently in close contact with
a^ion for the concerts it gives in 
Carnegie Music Hall. The string en­
semble meets once a week, and numer­
ous smaller groups are organized for 
chamber music, These share the pro­
gram with vocal and instrumental so­
los in the frequent recitals given in 
the theatre of the College of Fine 
Arts.
There are 23 practice rooms 
for the use of students, eight of-which 
are equipped with upright pianos, two 
with pedal pianos, and three with two- 
manual reed practice organs. The de­
partment has also two fully equipped 
three-manual organs, one in the organ 
room, the other in the theatre where 
recitals are given. There is a refer­
ence library of music for the use of 
students.
In the current year there are twen­
ty students holding scholarships in the 
Music Department. Four of these are 
provided by the Julliard Musical Foun- 
ation, two are Founder’s Scholarships, 
twelve are Pittsburgh Honor Scholar­
ships given to honor students of the 
Pittsburgh High School who have met 
our technical test, and two are from 
other sources.
No difficulty apparantly is experi­
enced by graduates in earning a good 
living. In fact, a majority of the un­
dergraduates in the Organ and Vocal 
options are already holding church 
positions, many of the students of 
other instruments are earning their 
way through school in their own line 
of work, and the demand of the Pub­
lic School Music for graduates far ex­
ceeds the supply of the latter.
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.—Sermons.
10 A.M.—Men’s Bible Class.
4 P.M.—Westminster Guild.
J> P.M.—Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.—Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas­
tor, teaches Men's Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
YOUNGSTOWN ALUMNI 
MEET E0RMER LIONS
If you smoke a pipe
(if you don’t you ought to) 
it may be worth your while 
to read this
You know tobacco is a vege­
table; it grows out of the ground, 
and when it’s green, it is too 
harsh and strong to smoke. The 
very best way to remove that 
harshness and bitterness is by 
thorough ageing in wood. To 
age Velvet Tobacco in wood is 
expensive for us—yes, very ex­
pensive, and it takes time, but it 
gives you a milder, cooler smoke 
¦with a finer flavor.
It’s 10 to 1 you’ll like Velvet 
Tobacco—aged in wood.
•
Ijgoktt & Mykivs Tobacco Co
Alumnae Theatre Party is 
Held Last Thursday Night
The theater party given by the Mar­
garet Morrison Alumnae last Thurs­
day night in the Little ^Theater, proved 
a very successful affair. “The Bolted 
Door”, a play by Cora Hardy Jarrett 
and Thomas Wood Stevens was en­
joyed immensely.
The number of tickets for alumnae 
use. was limited to one half of the 
theater, so that many o£ the members 
were unable to secure tickets.
Candy was sold during tho perform­
ance and the proceeds amounting to 
twenty-eight dollars, will add consid­
erably-to the scholarship fund which 
the alumnae maintain. The commit­
tee appreciated very much the contri- 
butionsaof candy which were so gener­
ously made.
Mrs. Mildred Spencer was chairman 
of the party, and tho following alum­
nae were ushers: Mrs. Sylvester Wil­
liams, Mrs. Thomas Spooner, Miss 
Edith Scott Glenn, .Miss Josephine 
Whitney, Miss Margaret Griffin and 
Miss Edna C. Smith.
Following thoir annual custom, 
alumni of Penn State and the Youngs* 
town-Carnoglo Clan united at a din­
ner and bridge at Burts; February 4. 
There has always boon the best of 
fooling between tho alumni of Poun 
State and Carnogle In Youngstown, 
and these yearly gatherings aro mu­
tually enjoyed.
Wednesday evening, February 20, 
Carnegie Musical clubs gavetho
concert at South High School. Fol­
lowing the concert, a dance was held 
In the gymnasium. The affair was 
heartily supported by the Clan, niem- 
bers of which assisted in housing the 
visitors.
EVER BEEN IN BARCELONA?
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB WILL
GIVE RECEPTION AT PITT
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
gethor stunts—each number excep­
tional serve to malco up a most in­
teresting and enjoyable program for 
tho afternoon.
Tho Cosmopolitan Club believes 
tills an admirable opportunity to see 
and observe the work which they are 
doing and cordially invite any and all 
persons interested In their organiza­
tion to attend and see what a good 
time every one has at their social 
gatherings.
Tho roception promises an excel­
lent program, a good time, and the 
opportunity to make new acquaintan­
ces. It is earnestly requested that 
every member of the club be present.
Some self-made men might be more 
careful in collecting- material.
M. M. BRIDGE PARTY NEEDS
CANDY DONATIONS FOR SALE
Plans for the Alumnae Benefit 
Bridge and “600” to be given on Sat­
urday, April 26th, in McCreery’s Din­
ing Room, are being completed. Home­
made candy will be sold and it is 
hoped that many donations will be re­
ceived. Mrs. Theodore Towl, 6667
Beacon St., is in Charge of the candy 
sale and would appreciate the co-op­
eration of the members.
Young Canadian Sends 
Letter Giving Thanks
Appreciates Kindness Shown 
Him as Summer Student
Campus
Week
.-JI15-16-17
A letter was received the other day 
by Mr. Edwin H. Smith, instructor in 
building construction from a young 
Canadian, Martin Theireault, who was 
a student at Carnegie last summer. 
Mr. Theireault is a graduate of a Can­
adian college, and was offered the po-1 
sltlon of Director of Vocational Work 
In tho Bureau des Commissaire D’Ec.- 
ole In New Brunswick. He came to I 
Carnegie Tech in preparation for this 
work, and it is satisfying to know' that 
he Is pleased with the training he re­
ceived, and would like to continue his 
studies here. Part of the letter Is pub­
lished below:
Dear Sir:
It has gotten so now’ that I am al­
most too ashamed to come forth with 
a letter at this late date.
Not being very good at excuses, I 
can only plead overwork, which after 
all is not a very good reason for over­
looking, at least, what politeness ex­
acts.
It is not mere politeness,' however, 
that prompts me to write; it is the ap­
preciation I have for all that you have 
done for me while at Carnegie last 
summer. You will perhaps say that 
it was not more than what the others 
received, even so, it was more than I 
expected.
I would like very much to be able 
to visit you again next sumrder, but 
by all outward appearances at this 
time it-does not seem at all probable 
that I will have the pleasure of going.
I have been intending to write you 
about a lot of machinery and tools 
that we purchased. We are cutting 
our own lumber this winter, and that 
is something else that I will have to 
put off telling you about until a later 
day.
Permit me to express my sincere ap­
preciation for your kindness towards 
me last summer. I profited not only 
from the course I followed, but also 
through the association of those with 
whom 1 had the pleasure of coming In 
contact.
Respectfully,
MARTIN THEIREAULT.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re­
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
CAN YOU SHIP AHOY?
Compliments
or
Skibo Inn
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital...................
Surplus..................
Deposits, Over - - -
$300,000.00
$300,000.00
55,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
FRANK BROTHERS
I'iUh Aveiitie Hoot Shop
Uulwwn mill S.lrccU. New \urk
Shoe satisfaction means 
style and worth.
Exhibit Shops In all the larger 
cities.
That Coles Phillips says Carnegie 
Tech should be congratulated on the 
beauty of the girls who attend there?
That the candidates for the Track 
Team number about 75, and the pros­
pects look fairly bright?
That the next Puppet will be the 
“Tootin’ ” number?
That Carnegie Tech walloped the 
famous team from Pitt?
Auf hammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
Fm on Brunswick records, folks
But Listen!—You ain’t heard nothin’ yet
A1 Jolson—the King of Musical Comedy—the 
mighty monarch himself—on Brunswick 
Records. The star pf “Sinbad,” “Robinson 
Crusoe, Jr.,” and now of “Bombo” can now be 
heard at any time.
Isham Jones’ Orchestra accompanies Jolson in 
each Brunswick selection. Two Jolson 6ongs 
are on every Brunswick Record.
You’ll think A1 Jolson is standing before you 
when you play:
THE ONE I LOVE BELONGS TO SOMEBODY ELSEi 2567 
STEPP1N’ OUT...................................................f 75c
I’M GOIN’ SOUTH 
CALIFORNIA, HERE I COME
) 2569
1 75c
Ami remember there is always something new 
on Brunswick Records.
.—^ 97ic Sion of.CMiisical 'Prestige -
dOWMMVkkr
PHONOGRAPHS ASD RECORDS
A cannibal’s motto for strangers:
"First come,- first served”
