Freshmen— 
Wear Your 
Dinks!TA<ARNEGIE?AN
?ANrep News from 
10 Years Agoo 
Page 2
VOL. 13—No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1949
Council Elects 
Robert Sinclair 
To Presidency
Dormicom Candidate 
Narrowly Defeated 
By One Vote Margin
By the narrow margin of a sin­
gle vote Robert Sinclair was 
elected to the presidency of Stu­
dent Council at its last formal 
meeting in the spring. He de­
feated Robert Horsch, Dormicom 
representative, who became the 
SC vice-president.
When Sinclair won the posi­
tion he recessed the meeting to 
deliberate o n 
appointing com­
mittee chair - 
,m e n . His 
choices resulted 
in James Rey­
nolds becoming 
publi cations 
chairman, Ted 
Goodson being 
named to class 
o r g a nization, 
and Lynn R. Sinclair 
Gasche being appointed to the 
Freshman orientation committee. 
Other committee appointments are 
pending the approval of the coun­
cil at its first meeting of the fall 
session.
Charges Answered
Don Culler and Robert Kubiak 
appeared at the meeting to an­
swer charges previously brought 
against Delta Skull, Junior men’s 
activities honorary. At the pre­
ceding meeting councilman Barry 
Rowles questioned its need for 
existence. “Delta Skull doesn’t 
seem to meet the criteria usually 
associated with an honorary. Its 
basis for membership and its ac­
tivities are haphazard—its prestige 
rating and incentive values are 
practically non-existent,” Rowles 
had stated. Each of these charges 
was denied by the Delta Skull 
representatives, who had been 
called to the honorary just one 
week before. They presented 
council with a four point pro­
gram which the honorary has un­
dertaken to follow for the ap­
proaching school year.
According to the representative, 
Delta Skull would handle the con­
tracting of an orchestra and other 
arrangements for v Homecoming 
dance, they would attempt to im- 
[Continued on page 2]
du ctiu cu nfauL lcu FSfhu
Fraternities 
End Program 
Of Rushing
Carnegie Tech’s twelve frater­
nities ended their annual rushing 
chore yesterday. This year’s 
schedule included a set of new 
regulations and a sensible orienta­
tion program instituted by The 
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
and the administration.
Freshmen interested in pledg­
ing a fraternity were required to 
attend a Fraternity Smoker held 
Tuesday night at which the fra­
ternity system as operated at Car­
negie Tech was thoroughly ex­
plained. Rushing cards given to 
the newcomers required them to 
visit at least four fraternities be­
fore they could become eligible 
to accept a bid.
Fraternities were asked not to 
“rush” while the various orienta­
tion week assemblies, receptions, 
tests, etc., were being conducted. 
Each fraternity has posted a $50 
bond, the forfeiture of which, 
along with other penalties, served 
to insure adherence to the new 
program.
Honoraries Elect Officers;
Pugh To Head Tau Beta Pi
Results of last June’s elections for eight campus honorary so­
cieties were unfortunately announced too late to be included in the 
final issue of the Tartan.
Tau Beta Pi, Carnegie’s highest engineering honorary society, 
has elected George Pugh as its^» 
president for the coming year.
His fellow officers include Doug­
las Schaffer, vice-president; Bruce 
Barrow, secretary; William Mac- 
Clark, treasurer; and Charles 
Koester, cataloger.
Sinclair Elected 
Robert Sinclair has assumed 
the president’s chair in Omicron 
Delta Kappa, senior men’s honor­
ary. Charles Koester and Ted 
Goodson have been. elected vice- 
president and chairman of Spring 
Carnival respectively.
Mortar Board, senior women’s 
honorary, has elected Patricia 
Roney, president; Lorraine Prus, 
vice-president; Jane Lawton, his­
torian; Virginia Gorman, editor;
Hilde Jacob, secretary; and Mary 
Louise Bacon, treasurer.
Scimitars Named 
Scimitar, sophomore men’s hon­
orary, has elected Albert Moon, 
president; Thomas Nathan, vice- 
president; Wesley Apple, secre­
tary; and Robert Pratt, treasurer.
Jeanne Button was named to 
head Cwens, sophomore women’s 
honorary, this year. Assisting her 
in her duties will be Shirlee 
Ploeger, vice-president; Susanne 
Richards, secretary; and Barbara 
Hess, treasurer.
Theta Tau has selected as its 
officers Richard dePrimo, presi­
dent; Harry Stone, vice-president; 
Richard Shaffer, corresponding 
secretary; and Robert Haberstroh, 
recording secretary.
Kubiak Honored Twice 
Delta Skull, junior men’s ac­
tivities honorary, elected Don 
Culler to its presidency, Robert 
Kubiak was named vice-president, 
Robert Dougherty was chosen as 
secretary and Paul Offermann was 
made treasurer.
Robert Kubiak was elected 
president of Pi Delta Epsilon, all­
school journalism honorary, while 
John Biewener was chosen vice- 
president. Margaret Morrow was 
elected to the combined position 
of secretary-treasurer.
Reporters
Tartan reporters will find the 
regular assignment sheet posted 
as usual this afternoon in Skibo, 
Margaret Morrison and Fine 
Arts Building. Remodeling of 
the book store in Administra­
tion Hall has removed our as­
signment board in that build­
ing, so be certain to check one 
of the other three postings.
All articles are due in the 
Tartan office on Friday evening.
Found A Gold 
Brick Lately?
Hometown Gets News 
In Local Fact Sheets
Somebody is vitally interested 
in what you do at Carnegie Tech.
That somebody is the editor of 
your hometown newspaper.
He wants to know when you 
join a^Traternity, are elected to a 
campus office, win a prize—in 
short, he wants to know about al­
most everything that happens to 
you here so that he can write a 
story for the people who know 
you back home.
To tell the editor quickly and 
accurately about your activities 
on campus, the Carnegie Tech 
News Service, part of the Public 
Relations Department, has devel­
oped a Local Story Fact Sheet.
These fact sheets have been dis­
tributed to secretaries of all cam­
pus organizations, to department 
head offices and to the Dean of 
Men’s and Dean of Women’s of­
fices. In addition, small brick- 
colored boxes filled with the forms 
are scattered about the campus in 
cbllege buildings, dormitories and 
in Skibo.
All you have to do when you 
do something newsworthy is take 
one of these Fact Sheets and fol­
low the instructions on it. In gen­
eral, all you do is fill out the form, 
fold it so that the public relations 
office address (printed on the 
back) is showing, and then either 
deliver it to the Public Relations 
Office (I.H.246-A) or drop it in 
inter-school mail.
The Carnegie Tech News Serv­
ice will take it from there. And 
shortly the editor of your home­
town paper will be happy, the 
News Service will be equally Jiap- 
py, your folks will have some­
thing to show around at work-— 
and you can say, “Aw shucks. 
’Tweren’t nothing.”
? * *
i,S,t,vp mf?l Lcuul
A reproduction of a Local Story 
Fact Sheet, a development of the 
Carnegie Tech News Service.
CIT Leads The Nation 
With IA Grad School
Six Million Dollar Foundation Gift 
Starts New Carnegie IA School
By Joe Weinreich
Carnegie Tech’s School of Industrial Administration, the 
nation’s first graduate school in this field, opened its doors 
yesterday.
Founded on January 17, 1949, when Carnegie received a »six million dollar gift from the**-----------------------------------------------------
W. L. and May T. Mellon founda­
tion, the school’s purpose will be 
“to prepare men for ultimate man­
agerial positions, primarily in in­
dustries where an understanding 
of modern technology is import­
ant.”
Dr. George Bach, as acting Dean 
of the new school of industrial 
administration, will direct a group 
of six other faculty members and 
six students during the next year 
in experimental work to determine 
what courses will be offered in 
the future and how these may be 
best presented.
Graduate Course Later
The school will be formally in­
stituted in September, 1950, at 
which time about twenty students 
will be accepted for a two-year 
graduate course to begin in the 
senior year.
Those six veterans who com­
prise the first student body of the 
school include Robert Johnson, 
Carl Levy, Harry Miller, Robert 
Paustian, Earnest Snoyer, and Jo­
seph Vogan. They have all re­
ceived bachelor degrees from Car­
negie Tech’s undergraduate course 
of industrial administration. On 
the basis of this year’s work they 
will be awarded their master’s de­
grees.
Since last winter when the first 
announcement of the new school 
was made, over 200 inquiries have 
been received from prospective 
students throughout the country. 
About half were from men who 
were out of school and employed 
in industry.
Faculty Group Named
In addition to Dr. Bach, the re­
maining faculty members are 
Herbert Simon, head of the De­
partment of Industrial Adminis­
tration, William Taaffe, Pearson 
Hunt, William Cooper, Emile 
Grunberg, and David Roberts.
Built around the Carnegie Plan 
of Professional Education, the 
School will teach students to de-
Dr. George Bach
fine and handle problems, apply 
fundamental engineering princi­
ples, and develop integrity and 
social understanding.
Teaching Method Differs 
Classes will be small and of a 
seminar nature; textbooks and the 
usual lecture method of teaching 
will not be relied upon complete­
ly as a teaching method. The cur­
riculum will include managerial 
decisions on production, sales, and 
financial questions, the adminis­
tration of modem industrial con­
cerns, and the problems faced by 
industrial leaders in a world that 
is undergoing constant social 
change.
uhCltSLg lcCL Tp f wt?fw LltSs mf?l Lcuul.
TA<VOTL .O13 VO—L LN< o21O 
CRRRE L. AMm, Earro* 
HtTSBUKGH U, FENNSYLVAMÍA-
TO:
nom to Com»tots thto Wmm
TW form, when cospicui bf yea. m mM « *c Iomm
GR A» fern to >r
V Trpt or pra* plainly,
«THEM COMPLETED-.
Del« «cr io fette Rrf.ria» IV
TOC FACTS 
------ -t
Aî“ÿZmaK u Ctmfic ímtímm oítcduotogr, t»-
SiK it the Daughter at Mr. toi Hn
la bifh-pxp acbooi She wit idK i
At C. t T, k KBTC ¡Í--
Covmag^Hoactowa (if toy)
Dktt filtei Ml___________-
?PLEASE FtU. IN COMPLETEL*.... TYPE OR PWNT PLAINLY

---------------------------------------------------

2CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 11*9
Editorial—
Why A Tartan
Like other extra-curricular activities on a college campus, 
the Tartan exists for two purposes. Primarily the publication
of an undergraduate newspaper serves as an outlet for stu­
dent talent and an opportunity for students to gain valuable 
experience in writing and the other mechanics of newspaper 
preparation, organization, leadership, and business control. 
The other justification for its existence is as a news service to 
the campus.
We mention the first purpose as an apology for anything 
that might not meet with your approval during the year and 
as an invitation for you to make this or any of the other cam­
pus publications your outlet of talent. Campus activities are 
the perfect proving ground for new ideas; mistakes can be 
made without serious consequences.
The second purpose of the Tartan leaves us with several 
responsibilities. In fulfilling these responsibilities we h'ave set 
the following aims as our goal: #
... to print the truth in as an unbiased form as we are
able.
... to remember that we represent the student body and 
our ultimate responsibility is to that body.
... to criticize constructively where criticism is due, to 
give credit where it is deserved.
... to provide leadership when necessary, to plead cau­
tion M’hen restraint is essential.
... to provide enjoyment and entertainment as well as 
news and announcements in an interesting and readable ma- 
ner.
... to attain always to the highest standards of journal­
ism.
A “God Speed” seems appropriate at this point.
Ten Years Ago 
This 3fontli
Our dust-covered volumes of the Tartan tell us that ten 
years ago these things were happening on the Carnegie campus:
There were no prerequisites to a coeducational course 
in marriage and family relationships . . . Boss Hall had just 
been completely renovated . . . Twenty-two football play­
ers received financial aid from a fund created by the Steffen 
Scholarship committee . . . Freshmen in the College of En­
gineering were the first class to BENEFIT by the broadened 
course in social relations.
A Tartan editorial rampaged against the use of a paddle for 
stimulating school spirit . . . Every student in the Class of ’43 was 
being encouraged to participate in some type of athletic activity 
during his stay at Carnegie . . . Elmer Layden’s Fighting Irish 
of Notre Dame were to be the toughest hurdle in CIT’s race to­
wards the mythical national championship.
The Pitt Stadium was to see thirty-odd lettermen back 
on the ’39 Tartan squad . . . Carnegie's football schedule in­
cluded Temple, Case, NYU, Notre Dame, Pitt, Holy Cross, 
and Duquesne . . . Ten 4.00 factor names appeared on the 
Dean’s honor roll . . . Rudolph Benes, nephew of the former 
president of Czechoslovakia, enrolled as a freshman in the 
Department of Architecture. He was reluctant to speak about 
conditions in his Nazi-occupied homeland . . . One of ap­
proximately 3.2 applicants were admitted in the freshmen 
class—total freshmen enrollment was 673.
A Tartan editorial announced that hazing had been abolished 
in most progressive American colleges . . . Prof. Boettcher called 
hazing idiotic and barbarous . . . The Saturday Evening Post fea­
tured an article called “How Good is the Carnegie Tech Team 
This Year?”
A fellow addressed as Dr. Eddie Baker was one of four 
coaches who, in two short years, had raised the Plaid eleven 
from obscurity to national prominence.
In case you’ve forgotten, all this was happening on Carnegie's 
campus just ten years ago this month.
Library Missing
The Social Relations library 
is a thing of the past. An­
other division of the old draw­
ing department has been con­
verted into a new library 
annex which will extend off 
the Main library study room.
Books from both the Main 
and Social Relations library 
will be consolidated in this 
annex, and will concern such 
subjects as economics, edu­
cation, history, and related 
subjects.
TA4WA1V
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC 1-4557; after hours MU. 1-7017, SC. 1-8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Insti­tute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-iii-Chief ............................................................................................ Albert F. Kimmel
Business Manager ............................................................................................. Herbert Stone
Managing Editor................................................................................................ Paul Offerrnann
Personnel Manager .. ............................................................................ Robert J. Kubiak
News Editor—Tom Birch. Sports Editor—Bill Dorn. Copy Editor—Lloyd Dyer. Makeop Editor—Ralph Painter. Advertising Manager—Morty Baker. Circulation 
Manager—Clarence Smith.Headline Editor—Catherine Rudy. Proof Editor—John Braun. Assistant Business Manager—Arthur G. Zuchs. Personnel Assistant—Ray Mangold. Chief Reporter»—Laura Ehni, Frances Hamborsky, Catherine Rudy, Nancy Sitler, Joseph Weinreich. Chief Photographer—Richard Deininger. Copy Staff—Hamilton Bartlett, John Gerurn, Analee Gelman, Mary CaufReld, Robert Cloud, Elizabeth Asche. Ed Muttart. Features Staff—A. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson. Photographer— Leland Green, Howard Miskill. Senior Reporter—Joseph Weinreich.Reporter*—Jo Crisanti, Angelo Pollis, Judy Block, Alan Blotcky, Al Bader, Joan Blumenthai, William Lyell. Nancy Sitler. Cup Reporter*—Sally Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Dorothy Kams, Edward Koos. Patricia Kelley. Sus Mac- Fadden, Dolores Mitchell, Shirlee Ploegtr, Bee Potter. Jane Robb, Anita Tam- heilini. Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Susan Flood Sports Staff—Richard Barr, Gerry Conlon. Robert Dougherty, Charles King Warren Lithgow, Fred 'Lunt, 
Art Mensing, John Roslund. Bruce Updike.Business Staff—Edmund Demburg. Shirlee Golenfieid, Marjorie Weinaweig, Bud 
Smith, Bob Powers, Herman P. Alexander.Tjpists—Patti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Shirley Dixon.
Estep, Retired 
ME Prof. DiesJ
Leader On Campus 
Served Tech 36 Years
Thomas G. Estep, who retired 
this year as Professor of Mechani­
cal Engineering, died at his home 
in Alexandria, Pa., last August 7. 
Professor Estep, a member of the 
Carnegie faculty for 36 years be­
fore his retirement, was 66.
Born in Alexandria in 1883, he 
was educated at Pennsylvania 
State College, where he received 
a Bachelor of Science in Mechani­
cal Engineering in 1905. Prior to 
joining the Carnegie staff, he 
served with Westinghouse, H. C. 
Frick Company, Babcock and Wil­
cox Company, and Armstrong 
Cork Company. He came to Car­
negie in 1913, and served the in- 
stiution with distinction from that 
time till his retirement.
Professor of Mechanical Engi­
neering when he retired, he had 
served as acting head of the Me­
chanical Engineering Department 
from 1943 to 1947.
Extremely active in his field, 
Mr. Estep was recently appointed 
a Fellow in the American Society 
of Mechanical Engineers. He was 
a member of the Engineers So­
ciety of Western Pennsylvania, 
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers, American Association 
of University Professors, Pi Tau 
Sigma, Sigma Xi, and the Amer­
ican Society for Engineering Edu­
cation.
Numerous papers have been 
published as a result of research 
conducted by Mr. Estep. He was 
the author of “Problems in Ther­
modynamics and Heat Power En­
gineering” and the “Mechanical 
Engineering Laboratory Manual.”
Popular and highly respected by 
his fellow faculty members, Pro­
fessor Estep was recently given a 
testimonial diner by his colleagues 
and associates at Carnegie.
Construction Schedule Lags' 
Skiho Only Project Completed
Carnegie Tech’s construction and rehabilitation plans for the fall 
semester unfortunately are still far from completion. Classrooms 
scheduled for use this semester are unfinished and work on the new 
engineering hall wing is behind schedule. Only bright spot in the 
picture is Skibo’s handsome face-
lifting.
A few of the unfinished projects 
in the reconversion program in­
clude classrooms in the new civil 
engineering section in IH, the 
floor and classrooms in the old 
library, floors and rooms in the 
wing by the Math department, and 
the upper stories in the engineer­
ing building.
Cause of the delay was a local 
strike by ready-mix concrete truck 
drivers. Without the concrete, 
work was almost at a standstill. 
Hardest hit by the strike was the 
construction work on the new 
wing where, according to the 
schedule, the foundation was sup­
posed to be completed and the 
riveting well under way. How­
ever, work had only progressed 
to the pouring of the concrete 
foundation when it was halted by 
the strike. t
On the completed side of the 
ledger is the new look in Skibo. 
Under Miss Buhrson’s capable di­
rection the skeleton-like interior 
has taken on an amazing homey
look. The transformation was 
made possible by hard work, 
paint, and full length drapes. 
Minor seating adjustments were 
necessary to break up the mono­
tony of the tables and chairs. The 
best idea of all however is the 
new row racks for books, making 
more table room and fewer lost 
books. Hats off to Miss Buhrson 
and her assistant, 'Mrs. Watts.
Civils Receive 
ASCE Presentation
Civil engineering students of 
Carnegie Tech have been cited for 
their activities last year by the 
American Society of Civil Engi­
neers. Given to the Carnegie stu­
dent chapter of ASCE, the cita­
tion came in the form of a certifi­
cate of commendation “for excel­
lence in the effective and meri­
torious conduct of its affairs.”
This student group was one of 
the 14 of 125 chapters to be hon­
ored.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 
per year. .Entered a* second ciass matter on Oct. 4, 1907. at the Post Office at . ittsburgn, la under the Act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octobc-r 21, 1918.
Student Council
[Continued from page 1] 
prove attendance of Tuesday 
morning assembly programs, they 
would devise a new system for 
calling, and would finally make 
plans to become affiliated with a 
national honorary of its type. A 
progress report will be given by 
Delta Skull on November 16.
Ne\^ Appointments Made
The following have been ac­
cepted as members of Student 
Council: Frank Becker, Robert
Carpenter, Richard Holl, Charles 
Koester, Fred Lunt, James Mc- 
Shane, John Steiner, John Stew­
art, Frank Witt, Arthur Zuch, 
Robert Broida, Lester Rosenberg, 
Janice Seiner, Ella Baum, Cath­
erine Rudy, and Kitty McGowan.
Sinclair’s election followed a 
comparatively mild campaign of 
fraternity vs. Dormicom machines, 
which gave the former a slight 
voting edge over the independents.
University Recreation 
BOWLING
AFTERNOON BOWLING
»DkM»D_ ?-AUy LT-RRT
SChenley 1-9307
Carry Your Money 
in your fountain pen?
Not exactly . . . but if you have a Mellon 
Checking Account, a fountain pen and your 
checkbook will take the place of carrying 
large amounts of cash. Until you need 
your money, it is safe in the bank . . . and 
yet can be withdrawn easily.
And when you pay bills, mail a check and 
save yourself time and travel. The cancelled 
check is evidence that you have made 
payment.
We offer two types of checking services— 
Regular and Specialized Checking Accounts. 
Many persons have found these services 
helpful in handling their money. Perhaps 
one of them would be useful to you, too. 
Let us show you the advantages of a Mellon 
Checking Account.
OAKLAND OFFICE 
Fifth and Oakland Avenues
MELLON NATIONAL BANK 
AND TRUST COMPANY
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1949CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Taient Search
Carnegie Tech’s varsity soc­
cer and cross country teams 
will start practice this Wed­
nesday afternoon, September
21.
Both soccer coach, Pat O’­
Connor, and track mentor, 
Guy Halferty, are diligently 
searching for new talent to 
replace their now depleted 
squads.
For a Fine Place To Eat You Just Can't Beat
THE COLLEGE SPOON
LOCATED AT 
CRAIG AND FORBES
Bud wt?flCtB
Craig-Forbes Pharmacy
4526 FORBES ST. - CORNER CRAIG 
Tasty Food At All Times
flluBlCtB LlOhuBlL.
Look no further for your, laundry 
and dry cleaning needs
3 HOUR DRY (LEANING SERVICE
Lfnu hfs wfOBhSs LuSWC?u
(Rough Dry—Washed and Dryed)
LcCSlL
(Beautifully Washed and Pressed)
• • •
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET
(ONE BLOCK PROM THE CAMPUS)
lIR ?Ie-GI EH lIR SRPRRNR-
(Episcopal)
KkDD mE-ÎRp LT-RRT 
LOBhfs LuSWC?uL
Holy Communion .............................................................. 8:00 A. M.
Family Service and Church School .......................... 9:30 A. M.
Morning Prayer and Sermon ..........................................11:00 A. M.
lu?c ?fBluSYOSs ctOLu 
KVkD nA-yA-RT nE--UpEn LT-RRT
Supper-Meeting every Sunday ........................................6:00 P. M.
Sunday Evening Vespers ..................................................7:00 P. M.
Compline—Wednesday Evenings ......................................9:30 P. M.
Holy Communion—Thursdays ........................................7:30 P. M.
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME
luXlYttaL mtS uWuSs Buuh
WE HAVE A GOOD STOCK OF
OLuh YttaL
"Used Books Cost Less o They Serve As Well" , , ,
THE PLACE FOR
“Tartan” Pencils, Brief Cases, Tech Pennants, School Supplies, 
Notebooks with Seals, Fraternity Decals, Slide Rules. Fountain Pens, Leather otebooks, Engineering Supplies.
“Ours Is A Trade That Service Made”
LET US'SERVE YOU
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
cufhwuuvL Ytta LltSu
3811 FIFTH AVE., Corner BOUQUET and FIFTH
uXiuSl SuifCSL
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 1-4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
25 TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
Main Plant;
3380 Bwikvird of the Allies
Citcom Plans 
New CalendarCarnegie Gridmen Hit 
Bottom In Scrimmage
Dr. Baker Takes Pessimistic View 
As Plaid Fails To Stop Duke Fro~h
It’s the same old story all over again. Carnegie Tech’s footballers 
just don’t have it this year.
No sooner had the more optimsitic of their followers predicted 
a banner year than . the Tartans folded up before the Duquesne 
---------------- ~~ ^freshmen in a scrimmage session
Touch Football
Season Nears
TNT Prepares Defense 
Of School Title
With intramural touch football 
entries due in one week, recruit­
ing and practice programs are be­
ginning to take form all over the 
campus.
Powerful Emanon, present pos­
sessor of the All-points trophy, 
TNT and Citcom Clan are leading 
the independent entries while all 
twelve of the fraternal organiza­
tions are preparing to send strong 
squads to the post when the sea­
son officially gets underway early 
in October.
Katselas Readies
Tasso Katselas is readying his 
defending champions, the TNT’s, 
for the current campaign, while 
the “Nonames,” still eyeing reten­
tion of the athletic trophy, are 
actively conducting one of the 
largest recruiting plans ever to be 
seen at Carnegie.
Theta Xi, long a big name in 
intramurals here, are once again 
pointing towards a football title. 
Despite heavy losses from last 
year’s squad, which closed the sea­
son as runnerup to Sigma Nu in 
their league, the TX’s have started 
to round themselves into shape 
with a contest against the incom­
ing freshmen scheduled for last 
Sunday afternoon at North park.
Collins to Play
Sigma Nu and Phi Kappa, 
among others, figure to show well 
in the approaching season.
The latter will once again have 
the services of Jack Collins, win­
ner of the Tartan’s award as the 
Outstanding Intramural Athlete 
of the Year in 1949, while Sigma 
Nu are pinning their hopes large­
ly on the passing combination of 
Thorpe-to-Riehl which proved so 
effective last fall.
last Saturday morning.
Grimly Coach Eddie Baker re­
tracted his previous anticipation 
of two victories and stated, “We 
won’t win a game this year.” They 
were still the same Plaid gridders 
who couldn’t win over their op­
ponents no matter who they were.
Physically Superior
Obviously a physically superior 
team, Carnegie became victims of 
the same plague which held them 
from victory on several occasions 
last fall. They seemed to lack the 
heart of a winner.
The Plaid did manage to squeeze 
a 13-13 tie out of the Dukes frosh 
squad, but relaxed at the more 
inopportune moments.
At times the local gridmen 
looked like the strong outfit that 
netted one win and two ties last 
Spring, but their weak pass de- 
! fense promised to offer consider­
able trouble throughout the sea­
son.
Helps and Scores
Offensively they showed flashes 
of power at irregular intervals. 
Quarterback Bobby Sommers toss­
ed a pass to Lou Fougere for one 
score and then drove over himself 
from tlie one-foot line with an­
other.
To further adckto Dr. Baker’s 
worries, St. Francis College, who 
will help thé Scots open their 
home campaign on October 8, 
fought their way to a 20 to 13 win 
over Lock Haven on the loser's 
field. Rated as one of Carnegie’s 
weaker opponents, St. Francis 
now figures to present a formida­
ble offense with which the Plaid 
may have more than a little trou­
ble.
Meanwhile, Bethany, number 
one on the schedule, are groom­
ing themselves for their opening 
contest at Davis-Elkins this week. 
The Plaid, therefore, will be at a 
disadvantage as far as current ex­
perience goes in their first two 
games.
Clan Fetes Freshmen; 
Intramurals Expanded
“A new and exciting social cal­
endar” has been planned for 
Citcom Clan, announced Harold 
McNutt, president, in a letter to 
Citcom members. Besides the so­
cial calendar the Clan hopes to 
expand its activity in the intra­
mural program.
First event planned is a Fresh­
man mixer on September 23 at 
the Union. The party will include 
refreshments and dancing and will 
give old members a chance to re­
new acquaintances as well as meet 
the freshmen.
Citcom Clan is an organization 
established for the purpose of 
uniting commuting students of CIT 
with those residing on campus, 
thus giving them opportunity for 
a social life often denied commut­
ing students.
Meadow
Cross Country 
Team Prepares 
For Fall Season
Track coach Guy Halferty is 
once again anticipating a better 
than average season for his cross 
country runners who start prac­
tice tdhiorrow afternoon.
Diminutive Jackie Alberts again 
appears to be the ace of the cur­
rent squad. The little, barrel­
chested speedster jumped into the 
spotlight somewhat suddenly last 
fall and continued his fine show­
ing throughout last spring’s track 
season.
Now starting into his sopho­
more year at Carnegie, Alberts 
has obviously been more effective 
at the longer distances and seems 
ready to make the best perform­
ance of his career this autumn.
Farther brightening the Plaid 
outlook is the rumor that speedy 
A1 Yarian will return to the squad 
this year.
LrRGUAl wenGIRp HE- 
LTePRnTp AnP YepUnRppNRn
11:00 A. M.—2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
—also ~
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
BambooGardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 1-7493
LUCHOK TALLIES IN FIRST SCRIMMAGE
Speedy Johnny Luchok, Dr. Baker’s number one right halfback, 
breaking away on a touchdown gallop through left tackle in the 
Plaid’s first scrimmage game of the year.

---------------------------------------------------

STARRING ÎN *' EASY LIVING
HER LATEST RKO RELEASE
// /N AMffi/CAS COllfGES r W/M TH£ TOP M£N/N SPOfiTS w/r/t mf //ouy wood stabs
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2# 1949 W?CARNEGIE TARTAN
Seven Receive Doctorates In 
Special Presentation Ceremony
Thistle Notice
The advertising staff of the 
Thistle will hold an important 
meeting Tuesday, September 
27,. at 4:30 on the third floor of 
the Carnegie Union. Members 
from last year and any fresh­
men and sophomores interested 
in advertising are urged to at­
tend this meeting.
Paul H. Stettler 
Advertising ManagerSteps
Dollars
A Few 
Saves You
A. Pursglove, B.S., 
1947, Carnegie, in
DANCING and 
ENTERTAINMENT 
AT STUDENT 
BUDGET PRICES 
no coverhtB nulZ
38D2 mE-ÎRp LT,
L? M VM68DD
HEADLEE'S
Ytta uX?cfBFu
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
CHESTERFIELDS ARE COMPLETELY
SATISFYING. THEY'RE MILDER
MUCH MILDER. .IT'S MY CIGARETTE
