TEE KILTIES 
ARE COMING 
FORBES FIELD, NOV. 25
CARNEGIE DAY 
CELEBRATION 
NOV. 24 10:4ß A. M.
VOL. XVII. NO. 10CARNEGIE INSTITJTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1922
MAYOR MAGEE TO SPEAK AT 
STUDENT-ALUMNi FOOTBALL 
BANQUET SATURDAY NIGHT
Football Captain and Varsity Clan 
Officers For Coming Year 
to be Elected
SEND IN YOUR RESERVATIONS
DON’T LOSE HOPE YET.
THERE’S ANOTHER HALF-
SEMESTER COMING:
The mid-semester deficiency grades I 
I were due in the Recorder’s Office last j 
| Friday. At this time the task of get- i 
getting together evidence against the j 
j "Black List” was completed, and from 
j present indications the “Gloom Let-j 
ters” will be shipped out of the Cen- j 
trjfl Building by the wheelbarnnv load j 
this Friday. Let us now rise and j 
sing the first verse of “Home Sweet j 
Home.”
But cheer up, you who have onlyi 
to hum the sweet refrain. The pow-| 
ers that be will give you a couple 
more months in which to learn the 
words and practice the tune..
CARNEGIE DAY 
BRINGS NOTED 
EDUCATOR HERE
The Student Alumni football banquet will be held Saturday, November 
25, at the Schenley Hotel, at 7:00 o’clock. This, the first football banquet 
to include all men students and alumni of the school.' The tarsity squad and 
the Freshmen team will be- guests of the school.
The banquets for former years have been for members of the football 
team only, and this occasion will probably mark the beginning of a series 
of all-Carnegie football banquets. All alumni, undergraduates and other 
Carnegie supporters are invited to attend. Tickets are being sold in the 
Alumni Office for $3.50.
Clarence Overend has been chosen***’ 
to act as. toastmaster for this occa­
sion. The speakers will be: Dr.
Baker, Dr. Hammerschlag, Coach 
Roehne, Mr. T. J. Lanahan, Hon. 
Mayor Magee, Coach Steffen, Cap­
tain Anderson, Frank Haaren, and 
the captain-elect for 1923.
Entertainment has been secured 
in the form of music, both instru­
mental and vocal and Carnegie Tech 
songs as well as other songs will be 
sung and played. Obie Newman will 
-entertain the' gathering with a col­
ored sketch.
The captain of the 1923. football 
team will be elected at this time by 
the members of the squad. Follow­
ing the election the chosen leader 
for the coming year will give a 
short talk. Officers for the Varsity 
Clan will also be elected.
The Schenley Hotel will be head­
quarters for the Alumni Federation 
on the day of the Notre Dame game 
and the banquet. Banners will be 
placed on either side of the hotel 
designating -it as headquarters.
Reservations for the football ban­
quet may be made through G. T. Til­
brook in the Alumni Office.
Sophs’ Annual Banquet 
Unmolested by Plebes
Held Friday on Hotel Chat­
ham Roof — Bill Pfouts, 
Toastmaster
Miss Walker, Politician, 
Speaks to M. M. Class
Carnegie Women to Organize 
League of Women’s Voters
Plans for starting a branch of the 
Allegheny County League of Women 
Voters were laid on Friday morning 
when Miss Lola Walker, the State 
Organizer of the League of Women 
Voters, spoke before a class in Amer­
ican Government in the Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College.
Miss Walker stressed the- purpose 
of the League of Women Voters which 
is that it shall be a non-partisaif, all­
party, organization of women, organ­
ized to discuss the questions concern­
ing all citizens. She indicated that 
the Pennsylvania League is at present 
interested in the taxation reform, that 
they are standing for the direct pri­
maries, as- opposed to the closed con­
tention system, that they are support­
ing all state educational programs, 
and as a part of the National Organi­
zation are backing the movements of 
National and International import­
ance.
She referred to the, successful Pan- 
American meeting of last spring 
where women representatives of the 
South American, Central American 
countries, and of Canada and the 
United States, met together to dis­
cuss matters particularly important 
to women and children.
It is hoped that the women students 
of Carnegie will realize the signifi­
cance of an organization of this kind 
as it effects their lives as citizens of 
the United States.
Humbert Discusses the Firefly
On Friday afternoon, November 17, 
Mr. Ralph Humbert and Mr. E. R. 
Owen were the speakers. Mr. Hum­
bert described Ives’s studies of the 
illumination produced in an intermit­
tent manner by the firefly dr in a con­
tinuous manner by the larvae of the 
firefly. It seems that a sufficient num­
ber of the latter placed closely to­
gether on an. area of a square meter 
would produce an illumination at a 
certain distance from these sources 
that would be comparable with illum­
inations obtained in commercial prac­
tice. The most interesting fact in 
regard to this form of illumination is 
its very high efficiency. The light 
seems to lie almost wholly in the vis­
ible spectrum, while in the case of 
the ordinary lamp with incandescent 
filament only a small fraction of the 
radiant energy lies within the visible 
spectrum.
Mr. Owen discussed the relation be­
tween the outward pressure produced 
by giving a conductor an electric 
charge and the density of the charge. 
He illustrated his remarks by showing 
the behavior of an electrified soap 
bubble.
On Friday afternoon Mr. Frank 
Fulknor of the Radio Engineering de- 
par' jient of the Westinghouse Com­
pany will speak on “Voltage Amplifi­
cation at High and Low Frequencies.” 
Mr. Fulknor was formerly a physicist 
at Carnegie Tech. He expects to il­
lustrate his talk wdth experimental 
demonstrations. All interested are 
invited to attend the meeting, which 
¦will be held at 4:30 p. m., in 113 Sci­
ence. ,
Friday evening, November 17 the 
Sophomores of the three schools' 
•held their banquet in the roof-garden 
of the Hotel Chatham. With every­
thing but the place of the banquet 
.published in the afternoon paper, the 
Sophomores were a bit uneasy about 
their safety, for the Plebes had been 
showing unusual signs ‘ of pep the 
day of the banquet. 'However, the 
committee in charge had made ar­
rangements for anything of the sort, 
and the entrance to the room was 
held by ten huskies.
After the dinner was over, the 
program rush followed, which was 
interesting, but somewhat tiring, es­
pecially for the speakers and presi­
dents, who wished they had rubber 
stamps. The Plebes found where the 
affair was being held, and came down 
to see what they could find, but the 
;Sopliomores dispersed the matter by 
calling a bell-hop to chase the 
crowd away. A few cheers resulted, 
and the banquet went on as before. 
“Buck’1 James introduced the toast­
master, but he was not unknown ex­
cept perhaps to the Arts men, for 
the person who held this position 
was “Bill” Pfauts. After a few 
words, the toastmaster presented 
Dean Bossange, who “talked shop,” 
in such a way that all of the Engi­
neers are determined to become 
Dramats. Dean Mott was the next 
speaker, but he said he didn’t care 
to "talk shop” for his shop was not 
as interesting as that of Dean ‘ Biss­
au ge.
Speeches were made by some stu­
dent representatives from the three 
schools, “Gy” I-Ioenniger from Sci­
ence, voiced his opinion on making 
Carnegie Tech twenty-five per cent 
better by doing things on the square 
with the Freshmen. “Mike” Kall- 
felz followed up this speech and 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Sir Robert A. Falconer Will 
Deliver Principal Address— 
Band Will Lead Parade of 
Faculty, Students, R.O.T.C.
CUSTOMARY FOOTBALL
SMOKER REPLACED BY
BANQUET AT SCHENLEY
No football smoker has been 
planned for the close of the football 
season. The banquet after the Notre 
Dame gamo is open to all men and 
will replace the customary football 
smoker, usually held on the day of 
the final game.
CARNEGIE TARTANS PRIMED 
FOR CONTEST WITH NOTRE 
DAME’S POWERFUL TEAM
DEBATING CLUB TO 
MEET TOMORROW
Men Interested in Debating 
Are Urged to Come to 
“Y” Club Room
Mr. Cook Speaks to C. M. E. S. 
On Technical Magazines
Mr. Cook of the Blast Furnace and 
Steel Power magazines, spoke at the 
meeting of the Carnegie Mechanical 
Engineering Society last Thursday 
evening. The subject of his talk was 
“The Importance ' of the Technical 
Magazine to the Practicing Engineer.” 
An engineer, in order to keep up with 
the new advancements in his profes­
sion, must be a constant reader of 
some magazine which deals in his 
particular branch of engineering. Mr. 
Cook also stated that one of the best 
means of acquiring prominence in the 
engineering world is to contribute 
articles to a technical paper.
Plans for the next meeting of the 
society were outlined. Mr. Dodds and 
Mr. Carrao, who are student members 
of the society, will each give a talk. 
Mr. Dodds will speak on the subject 
of “Steam Turbines on Battle Cruis­
ers and Destroyers” and Mr. Carrao 
will talk on “Reciprocating Engines.”
The Sophomore Mechanicals are 
still conspicuous by their absence 
from the meetings of the society. It 
(Continued on Page Three.)
INTERESTING PROGRAM OF
MUSIC AT ARTS ASSEMBLY
The students of the Music Depart­
ment had charge of the Arts Assem­
bly, and rendered a program that not 
only furnished entertainment but gave 
promise of improvement in the weekly 
Arts Assemblies. Mr. C. A. Bowles, 
Freshman in the music department, 
rendered several selections that were 
greatly appreciated in spite of condi­
tion of the piano that was used. Mr. 
Groth, organist, and Miss Anna Zinet 
also gave several numbers.
The Drama Plebes added a little 
thrill to the assembly through the 
medium of two real love scenes.
Dean Bossange commented on high 
scholarship and urged continued work 
on the part of all toward the attain­
ment of scholarship of the highest 
type.
A thousand mile hike scheduled in 
the Arts Theater at 4:30 today, was 
announced.
The Debating Association will hold 
its first general meeting tomorrow 
evening, Thursday, November 23, at 
8:00 p. m., in the'“Y” club room. The 
purpose of this meeting will be to de­
cide upon important questions rele­
vant to the beginning of its activities 
for this school year. One of the most 
important matters to be developed 
will be that of the membership of this 
year’s association. Mr. D. A. 
Sclioerke, present secretary of the 
association, will take charge of the 
meeting as acting president.
As outlined above, the question of 
membership will play an important 
part at this meeting. Last year’s De­
bating Association was composed 
largely of Seniors, while others of the 
men did not return to school, or can 
not give debating sufficient time to 
warrant their following the Avork this 
yeai\ This leaves a number of posi­
tions on the membership roll vacant.
Men who have had experience in 
debating or public .speaking, or who 
at least are interested in this art, are 
urged to be present at this meeting, 
and express their desires there. The 
study of debating, while not directly 
connected with a technical education, 
will help a man immensely in his 
ability to express himself in an intel­
ligent and impressive manner. Clear 
thinking before an audience is as es­
sential to an engineer as it is to the 
(Continued On Page Two.)
JUNIOR PROM TICKETS TO 
COST LESS THIS YEAR
The price of this year’s Junior Prom 
will be slightly less than that of last 
year, yet,the high quality will not 
only be maintained, but improved.
Asesssments of the Junior classses 
will be collected before Thanksgiving 
and tickets will be on sale immedi­
ately after the Christmas vacatioh, 
starting on Tuesday, January 2.
The services of an excellent first 
class orchestra of national repute 
have been obtained, and plans for un­
usually appropriate and novel favors 
have been completed.
With good music and an excellent 
program, this occasion promises to be 
one of the most enjoyable social 
events of the year. Members of the 
Junior and Senior classes are looking 
forward to this event with a great 
deal of anticipation.
Miners and Metallurgists 
Hold Initiation Smoker
Tuesday night the Miners and 
Mets Society held an enjoyable 
smoker. The first affair on the pro­
gram was th,e initiation of some of 
the Sophomores who are taking these 
courses.
The main feature was an illustrated 
lecture by Mr. Howard N. Eavenson, 
who is one of the most prominent 
Mining Engineers in the bituminous 
coal regions, and a member of the Co­
operative Board of Mining Engineer­
ing of C. I. T. Mr: Eavenson was an 
engineer for the U. S. C. & C. Co., 
when they installed their new plant 
at Lynch, Kentucky, which has a tip­
ple capacity of 16,000 tons per day, 
and then built a town to accommodate 
about two thousand workmen. The 
lecture was very good and enjoyed by 
all.
Refreshments and music occupied 
the remainder of the evening.
CHAPEL TOMORROW
At the Chapel services to be held 
tomorrow, Dr. E. J. Van Etten, of 
Calvary Episcopal Church, will ad­
dress the students. These talks are 
always interesting and you will be 
well repaid for the time spent while 
hearing them.
Father Coakley’s address, last wéek, 
was very much enjoyed by all those 
present, but there was room in the 
Little Theater for many more. Re­
member, there will be no service next 
week, because of Thanksgiving, so 
let’s see a record crowd tomorrow at 
12:50 in the Little Theater.
MARCH STARTS AT 10:30
The majority of Carnegie Tech stu­
dents have the idea that the exercises 
to be held on Carnegie Day, Novem­
ber 24th, in tho Music Hall are to be 
in tho nature of a big. General Assem­
bly. Few realize that the exercises 
of this day are second only in im­
portance to the Commencement exer­
cises, and that all details are worked 
out to make this day one of the most
SIR ROBERT A. FALCONER
interesting of the school year. This 
year's program promises to be the 
best that has ever been presented at 
Carnegie Tech. In securing Sir Rob­
ert Falconer, President of the Uni­
versity of Toronto, to deliver the ad­
dress of the day, Dr. Baker has se­
cured one of Canada’s most eloquent 
speakers, a man born and bred a 
Canadian, who has been' Identified 
with Canadian educational interests 
throughout his life. He has degrees 
of B.A., M.A., D.D., and D.Litt. fronl 
London and Edinburgh Universities 
and has also received honorary dogrcos 
(Continued on Page TwO.)
WESTERNERS TO HOLD 
THANKSGIVING DINNER
It lias been the custom of the Mid- 
West Association during tho short 
period of its existence on tho 
campus, to hold a banquet on 
Thanksgiving Day- for those students 
who are so far from home that a 
return for the annual turkey feast 
would be impractical if not impossi­
ble. Last year the banquet was held 
at the Hotel Chatham downtown, and 
it was pronounced a huge success by 
the thirty or more men who attend­
ed the affair. This year the event 
promises to be even better, since tho 
association has widened its scope 
from, including only men from the 
Mid-West to including all students 
(Continued on Page Two.)
MUSICAL CLUBS THISTLE
PICTURE 2 P. M. SUNDAY
The picture of the combined Men’s j 
Musical Clubs will be taken next Sun­
day afternoon, November 26„ at 2 
o’clock in the exhibition room of the 
College of Fine Arts. All members 
are urged to be there. Report In 
full dress.
JUNIORS BANQUET 
ON-CHATHAM ROOF
Record Breaking Crowd Will See 
Skibos Meet Rochne’s Unbeaten 
Aggregation Next Saturday
KILTIE BAND WILL APPEAR
The Date is Friday Night, 
December 8—Tickets 
on Sale. Now
After considerable hard work and 
much perseverance, the Junior ban­
quet committee, consisting of Sam 
Dyke, chairman; Kruse, Lowstuter, 
Brace, Campbell and Sclioerke, has 
succeeded in arranging a very attrac­
tive banquet for the class of nineteen 
twenty-four. It is believed that the 
most suitable and handiest place in 
the neighborhood has been obtained-. 
The idea of having the banquet down­
town this year, instead of out of the 
city somewhere was given preference, 
because it was thought that more of 
the follows would be able to attend. 
The committee has been lucky in ob­
taining the Chatham roof for the oc­
casion. Here the class will have tho 
whole top lloor to itself.
The dato is set for Friday night, 
December the eighth. This was con­
sidered as good a date as could be 
arranged. It comes at a time when 
there is a slight lull in campus activ­
ities betweon Thanksgiving and 
Christmas. For eats it has boon de­
cided to have a good meal but not so 
much but what It will be eaten with 
good relish, in other words just 
enough to be appetizing.
The entertainment is to bo empha­
sized*. It Is believed that some of tlio 
celebrities from Arts School will con­
tribute something. Everyono knows 
of the antics of Ross Hertz with Carl 
Snyder at tho piano, of tho songs of 
(Continued 011 Page Three)
CARNIVAL WILL RAISE 
MONEY FOR CHARITY
On December !), a big Christmas 
carnival will be hold In Langley Lab­
oratory, the Union and tho Faculty 
Club rooms. Tho Carnival Is. to bo 
artistic, colorful, lovely, varied, and 
of high social tone, yet with plenty 
of snap and pep.
Tho idea Is to got tho trustees, ad­
ministration ofilcers, faculty, and tho 
studonts together for Christmas, that 
is to give them a splendid time before 
the holidays, make them happy, and 
then send everybody homo with real 
Carnegie ToctuChrlstmas Spirit
Tho entertainment, dancing, and 
food will be so good that you will 
be sorry that it last's for only one 
evening.
The funds, are to be used for tho 
founding of a Carnegie Tech College. 
Settlement 1n the Forward Avenue 
slum district. The old M. M. C. C. 
Guild now being organized into a four- 
school activity, has proposed the es­
tablishment of such a settlement.
Former Drama Students 
Get Favorable Mention
The Billboard, the national paper of 
the theatrical world contains in -its 
columns mention of two of last year’s 
members of tlie-Department of Drama 
in connection -with an article on the 
Little Playhouse in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
• The first two plays put on this year 
in the Little Playhouse were under 
the direction of Dave Mudgett and 
Laurence Paquin, the former being art 
director and the latter, dramatic di­
rector of the company. The Billboard, 
in commenting on the work of Mr. 
Mudgett says: “His symbolic impres­
sionism is as yet a little in advance 
of what most of our progressive thea­
ters have attempted. It will be 3een 
to good advantage in the staging of 
Maeterlinck’s ‘Death of Tantigiles’ to 
be presented by the Little Playhouse 
in the near future.”
Among the plays that will be di­
rected by Larry Paquin in Cincinnati 
this season are: Shakespeare’s
“Twelfth Night,'' Glacosa’s "As the 
Leaves,” Massey’s “Plots and Play­
wrights,” and Mollere’s "Learned 
Ladies.”
Mr. Nicolet Speaks
Before the A. L. C. E,
Mr. Tell W. Nicolet addressed the 
Carnegie student chapter A. S. C. E. 
last • week on “Laying Out City 
Streets.to Fit Topography and Traffic 
Conditions.” Mr. Nicolet is a land­
scape architect and engineer of con­
siderable experience and an Associate 
Member A. S. C. E. Mr. Nicolet told 
of the difficulties encountered in at­
tempting to lay out streets on a rect­
angular plan where the ground is roll­
ing or broken. By laying out the 
streets to follow the topography, ex­
cessive grades and streets dead-end­
ing at the foot of hills and cliffs are 
eliminated. This is done by first mak­
ing a contour map of the section to 
be laid out. Then the streets are 
plotted to follow the contours, giving 
lower grades and making traffic easier 
to handle. Property values are fre­
quently enhanced by judiciously plac­
ing the streets.
New Music For Alma Mater
New music for the Alma Mater has 
recently been composed by Prof. 
O’Brien, head of the Music Depart­
ment. This will be presented for 
the first time to the student body by 
the musical clubs on Carnegie Day, 
Friday, November 24.
The old tune was that of the 
Austrian National Hymn, and as it 
was felt that an original tune was 
more distinctive, this new music was 
compopsed. The tune is well liked by 
all those who have heard it.
CHESS CLUB MEETING
'I'lie Chess Club will hold Jta ilr;-;t 
meeting of the year on next Monday 
evening at 7:30 in the Y. M. C. A. 
club room Jn tho College of Indus­
tries. All of last year’s members 
should bo present at this meeting. 
Tho winner of last year’s tourna­
ment with the silver cup he won will 
be there. Any person Interested In 
chess will be welcome at till» meet­
ing whether he joins or not. The 
manager of the team has received 
several offers for games this year 
from other schools and clubs. A 
tournament will be run soon and all 
students will be eligible to compete. 
Don’t forget the time and place—Y. 
M- C. A. room, 7:30 Monday even­
ing, November 27.
Technical Journal 
to be Issued Friday
Third Year Marks Great Im­
provement in Journal
Do you realize what you are going to see at Forbes Field 011 Saturday? 
You are going to witness practically tho same team that outplayed Wasli-
Jeff clash with a team that lost only one game in the last four years and
having to their credit thirty-three victories in that period.
There was a purpose in the cancellation of last Saturday’s game, and the 
results of two Aveeks’ strenuous practice on the part of Steffen's steam roller 
will be much in evidence when Roclcne’s aggregation appears against them.
:• The Tartans are being primed not 
j to hold Notre Dame but TO BEAT
j THEM., Most of the cripples have
come around in good shape, and the 
punch that was lacking in the Penn 
State contest and which was very evi­
dent in tho Yale and W. & J. battles 
is sure to be noticeable in the offen­
sive and defensive play of the Skibos 
011 'Saturday.
There are but few people who real­
ize tho real importance of tho Car- 
nogle-Notre Dame game. The words 
of Greasy Neale; “I rank Carnegie 
Tech ace high among the teams in 
this section” after tho W. & J.-Car- 
negle game have como to mean more 
since the Lafayotto olovon went down 
in defeat boforo tho Black and Rod 
of Wash.-Jeff. Practically tho same 
team that'¦earned this comment from 
one of tho nation's loading coaches, is 
going to take tho Hold with tho open­
ing whistle that will send a giant of 
tho Middle West against tho best 
olovon in the history of Cnrnogio 
Tech,
Reserved seats at Forbos Field aro 
practically sold out. People from 
miles around are coming l:o Pitts­
burgh Saturday.
Alumni from all over tho country 
have.made Forbes Field tho goal for 
(Continued on Piigo Three)
The Carnegie Technical Journal 
will appear 011 the campus Friday.
Carnegie Day, for tho first time this 
year. The journal Is a quarterly, com­
posed ol’ scientific facts of general In­
terest, tho articles being selected and 
writtea to bo sufficiently advanced to 
interest the student of science, yet 
elementary enough for anyone to un­
derstand and appreciate. Tho Tech­
nical Journal makes its appeal to 
overy Carnegie student and Alumnus 
by the varied, interesting and Instruc­
tive matter It contains.
Messrs. W. J. Rollly and W. F. llltt- 
man contribute an article on what our 
graduates are doing and what our 
present students may bo expected to 
do aftor graduation. Of oqual inter- 
ost is a description of modern bread 
making and its , scientific aspects by
R. Irvin, who has worked at those_______________
problems for (ho past IIvo yours In I
the Mellon Institute of Industrial Re- SfllflPntQ tfi SPP KilHf1 search, revealing many of tho under- p-HUUUIllo IU IVUMl/
SW35 uWod.TE5 Band in Motion Pictures
broad. ____________
Dr. Max Sclioon, Ph.D., assistant 
Professor of Psychology, has made a 
study of artistic singing from tho 
voices of such notables as Mel ha.
Alda, and Gluck, and has now om- 
bodlod Ills discoveries and his concep­
tions of tho fundamental require* 
monts for a successful musical career 
In brief description to appear In this 
issue of the Journal.
The fourth dimension has long puz­
zled and Intrlguod many of us, yet an 
opportunity to socuro a real oxplnna- 
tlon Is rare. Joseph Hlrscliman, '2!l, 
however, furnishes a very lucid de­
scription of sonio of the fundamental 
concepts of the fourth dimension and 
higher space goomolry.
High tonslon transmission of oloc- 
trlcal energy Is undergoing more ex­
tensive developments ouch year, and 
(Continued 011 Pago Two.)
Christmas Cards On Sale 
in Printing Department
Orders for Christmas cards are now 
being taken in the Printing Depart­
ment under the supervision of the 
Graphlca. All purchasers will have 
to come to the printing shop at 122 
Industries, where the cards are on dis­
play and where the orders will be 
taken, as 110 solicitors will be on the 
campus. Names will be imprinted 
only by special arrangement as this 
work will have to be done by the 
Graphlca members.
The cards, being handled this year 
by the Graphlca, are tlio most distinc­
tive cards ever sold about the school. 
They were designed and are being 
printed by the Bridgman-Rudge Com­
pany of New York.
Pictures Will be Taken at 
Game Saturday
The throe thousand dollar k filled 
band will make Its first public, appear­
ance Immediately boforo tho klckotf 
at tho Cnrnoglo-Notro Dame content; 
on Saturday. Movie men will be on 
hand to film the only Scotch band In 
the country and the sixty-piece aggre­
gation will bo shown the country over 
by moans of the motion picture.
"The Kilties aro coming” will have 
a double meaning with the appear­
ance of tho unique Scotch outfits, and 
tho name of CarnegJo will re-echo 
from coast to coast following tho 
Notro-Darno game. Studonts will bo 
given an opportunity to view the band 
In kilts from a movie standpoint In 
a two-hour show which Is to bo given 
at the close of tho football season. 
Tills will include, in addition to tho 
band pictures, scenes and exciting 
moments in the W. & J., Penn State 
and Notre Dame gridiron contests. 
Tho pictures of the band will be tho 
feature of the set of pictures.
Half of the funds for tho lcllts bave 
boon raised by the student body, and 
the remaining third is expected from 
the alumni. Scotty Henderson, ’08, 
has charge of alumni contributions 
to the kiltie fund. The quota of the 
alumni is not yet filled and a decided 
boost is expected in the drive before 
the kilts are received.
The kilts are being manufactured 
by a Niagara Falls concern, and ship­
ment of them in time of the Notre 
Dame contest is guaranteed. They 
Will reach Pittsburgh on the afternoon 
of November 24.
Senior Napoleon Rallies Plebes, 
Astounds Sophs By Valiant Deeds
(By T. S. Repplter) j ly depriving some helpless Plebo of
Correspondent for U.' of Persuasia | Ills headgear, he cocked it jauntily
“A Daniel! A Daniel come to judg-1 upon the left ear in the most-colle-
ment!” | giate fashion, and sallied forth upon
Such was the wild cry that issued 1 his evil purposes. (I forgot to state
from several hundred Sophomoric 
throats last, week as a leader rone 
from the multitudes, and mysteriously 
took charge of the Plebe affairs 011 
the campus.
Late 8tyles In Headgear.
It was this way. For hours at a 
time the hordes of tho Sophomore 
class had had things all their own 
way, herding tho Plebes first hither 
and then yon, and evr-ti subduing Ihc 
Ploblan pride to tho extent of a forced 
walk via tho chalk lino route. For 
some peculiar reason tho Plebes did 
not appear aware of tho fact that 
what the Sophs—pardon us, Sophs— 
wore doing was for their own good, 
but none the less lacked the organiza­
tion to rise up as one rnan and srnlto 
the class of '2f> in their wrath. Viola! 
Enter Daniel, bearing the lion!
Pete Thompson (for it was none 
other than he), foreseeing that the 
class of '2R was foredoomed to de­
feat, resolved to cast his allegiance 
upon the side of the oppressed. Quick-
y: \ A
that lie had previously rolled up his 
rod flannel underwear, thereby con­
cealing tho fact that he was a Senior). 
Approaching the milling mob from 
the rear, Mr. Thompson quickly ad­
dressed the Plebos In English, thereby 
keeping secret from tho Sophs his in­
genious purpose. Finally, with a loud 
huzzah of triumph, the afornsald Peto 
broke Into a smart double time, call­
ing upon the gods and tho Plebes to 
bo with him. Like the dear ladles at 
a bargain rush they followed him, and 
in a moment's time all was In an up­
roar.
Battling Slkl In Action.
Those who witnessed the Dempsoy- 
Carpentior fight say that It was as 
^nothing compared to the battle that 
followed. Plebe slapped Sophomore, 
and ^Sophomore tlslied at Plebe; blood 
flowed In all directions and agonized 
yells of the dead and dying rent the 
air for yards around. The flying 
v/edge of dauntless Plebes had almost 
(Continued on Page Two)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1922
Ä Carnegie Ä-tan
Published every week by undergraduate» of! tho Carnegie IriHtltuto of 
Technology undor the supervision of tho Student Activities Board.___________
COMMENTS
Entered In tho PoHtolllco of Pittsburgh a« second-class matter^ ____
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ........................................................... Editor-In-Chief
Telephone—Hlland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN..............................................................Business Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND............................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone—Schenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD.................................................................... Associate Editor
II. P. SIMPSON .............................................................................. Associate Editor .
Telephone—Schenley 91415
HORTENSE PURDY...................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone—Schenley 9079H. P. DIETER ......................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone—Hazel 9 <198
E. J. MAUST ........................................................................................... TEKI Editor
Telephone—Hazel 9422
II. H. WILSON....................................................................................Athletic Editor
Tolephone—Hanoi 9¡550
R. P. HAY .............................................................................................. Photographer
111 B. KELLER ................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR................................................................................................................................. Art Editor
T. S. IlJfiPPLlHJR................................................................................ Special Writer
J. K. MATTER .................................................................................... Special Writer
J. M. COOPER........................................................................ Advertising Manager
Telephone—Sclionloy 8211
J. C. MAJOR ............................................................................ Circulation Managor
Tolephono—Schenley 9211
EDI'rORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKonzio, L. Ilorl/.nian, M. S. Downes, P.' C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, P. D. Rossini, V. L. Sponcor, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRI BUTORS 
II. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, E. C. Frazier, J. II. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowors, W. B. Cunningham, 1’. P. Schubltor, T. J. Dompney, J. B. 
LaudIg, D. Moidcovitz, J. W. Metro, P. W. Reilly, R. R. Young and II. OlbBon.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withheld If desirod. All nows items must be in tlio student 
postolllco before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan Oillco—Room C-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wcdnosday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Oillco hours—Tuesday,
CONSIDER THE CHAPERON
The chaperon is a guest and not a necessary evil, brought about 
by modern convention, and therefore it is the duty of the other 
guests and the hosts to see that they arc entertained, especially is it 
expected at our school dances. Members Of the faculty are usually 
asked to act in this capacity, and often it is only through courtesy 
that they accept, because students show little effort in making the 
evening pleasant for them, consequently they must decorate the walls 
or entertain the old folks. Remember that a chaperon from a col­
lege facility is not dull and uninteresting; can dance and enjoy it 
as much as the undergraduate. Make it a pleasure for them to bo 
there instead o.l! a distasteful duty.
CARNEGIE CHEERING SECTION
Students are requested to sec the Notre Dame game from the 
student cheering stands, because it will make it possible for the 
cheerleaders to get the best results. Many students arc buying re­
served seats, which means that they do not count much for cheer­
ing; because only in the student stands is real concerted action pos­
sible; also this is tho best place to sec the game.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
No paper could operato with financial success if it wove not for 
its advertisers ; they have goods to sell and through newspapers so­
licit trade, and the money spent should bring a return, or it is a 
poor investment; which means il’ an ad in the Carnegie Tartan does 
not bring customers, it is not a good advertising medium, conse­
quently tho paper loses their support; therefore, we ask students 
to patronize our advertisers, thereby boosting the school paper.
TAKE ONE PAPER
Do not take more than one Carnegie Tartan, because there aro 
not many extra copies, and it thorofor'o means that someone does not 
got their copy. It is in consideration for tho other follow that this 
request is made, and wo hopo that studonts will not ta,ko more than 
they aro entitled to, at the oxponso of someone else.
A Letter From the President
My Danr Mr. Stromqulot!
Muy I nok you to oonvoy to tho at octant body my fjront npprocln- 
tlon of tho flno opoi’tomnnflhlp whloh won exhibited nt tlio 8tnta Col- 
lo(jo gome? II: KLE Impooulblo for mo to ho prooont, but I have hoard 
from many «Idas tho moot complimentary ntntoment» In roQordo to 
tho splendid spirit uhown by our tonm and ntudont body.
Wo woro moot hoopltnbly rocolvod by tho State College undor- 
ornduntoB. That this hospitality wao appreciated who shown In many 
ways by the men and women from Tech.
It should be a oauoe for groat satisfaction to nil our friends that 
tho rclatlono of State College and the Institute of Technology are .so 
cordial. Tlilo good fooling wao Inoroaood by tho vlolt of laot Saturday.
I am writing to President Thomas and thanking him for tho many 
courtesies shown to us on that clay.
Very slncercly yours,
THOMAS S. BAKER.
THE TARTAN PLAID
iSclenco ha« its blue, Fine Arts its 
red, Industries Its green, and the 
Maggies their yellow, and yet tho 
school colors are Tartan Plaid. It 
Is quite true that the four colors 
make up the Plaid but the schools 
are not united as the colors in the 
Plaid but separated into their ele­
ments.
Why not be one group; united for 
Carnegie Tech and for Its ideals. 
Time iifter time expressions as "Oh, 
he's from Design," or "He's only a 
Science guyi," reach our ears and I 
venture to say are repeated by us. 
Each school has its typo of student«, 
fitted for the work that they are tak­
ing up and life Artists and Drama 
students cannot be expocted 
to poise tis Engineers. It is only 
natural that there should bo Individ 
uallty hi the different schools but 
it is not natural and right that when 
the ideals and good of Carnegie Tech 
aro concerned the schools or col­
leges should be separated.
Try to develop moro friendship 
among the students of the other 
schools on the campus. Your educa­
tion will be1. broadened and the 
strength of Carnegie will be more 
noticeable. Don’t razz, tho student 
in the other school; he picked his 
course and you picked yours. You 
aro both, getting an education of 
equal value and will be equally good 
Carnegie men when you are out.
Don't knock students in the other 
schools; boost them and not only 
build up your list of friends in all 
the schools, but work for a better 
Carnegie Tech.
ROAMIN’S
Roamer admires the girl who in­
sists that she sit in the student 
cheering section at the Notre Dame 
game and help out with the cheering 
rather than occupy a grandstand 
seat.
Tho girl who sits in the grand­
stand Is not only neglecting her 
share of the cheering but is keeping 
a good lunged member of the malej 
sex out of tho nosy section.
Dr.Langmuir’s Lectures 
Awaited With Interest
Tickets Required When 
Physicist Speaks
Everyone appreciates a little Plebe- 
Soph fuss now and then, and when 
banquet days come around it is usu­
ally expocted. Lack of an occasional 
class fight immediately stamps tho 
lower classes aB dead, so it is quite 
evident that the fights will prevail 
an long as the school exists. In that 
case let’s show the right spirit. 
Don't cut your classes or harm 
school property. Get your class to­
gether, respect the property of. the 
school, and then go to it, and come 
to a settlement. Abovo all, reinem- 
iber you are here to get an education 
and that comes first. On the other 
hand, a Jittlo mussing up now and 
then will do you good and go a long 
way toward making a man of you.
NO CLASSES CARNEGIE 
DAY FROM 10:20 TO 1:30
SENIOR NAPOLEON RALLIES 
PLEBES—ASTOUNDS SOPHS
BY VALIANT DEEDS;
Continued From Page One) 
gained their objective, the safety of 
Mr. Geckeler and the Science Build­
ing, when the Sophs descended upon 
them and Mr. Thompson was com­
pelled to resort to the manly art of 
self-defense.
His not to reason why 
His but to black the eye,
Hark how the Sophomores cry! 
Mighty Peto Thompson!
In tho midst of the furore tho noble 
Sophs resolved to escort Mr. Thomp­
son to tho tank, still ignorant of tlio 
fact that he had worn a Plebe cap 
three long years ago. But Mr. Thomp­
son objected—objected so strongly 
that though Ills coat was torn in sev­
eral parts and tho borrowed headgeor 
entirely destroyed, there was still fire 
in his eye;
And then the Inevitable happened! 
One of Mr. Thompson’s aforesaid rod 
flannel sioovos became unrolled, and 
became visible, oven to the swollen 
oyos of tho Infuriated Sophs. “A 
Senior, a Senior,” was tho cry, and 
at once the penitent class of '25 was 
salaaming In tho most Ignoble fash­
ion; another man loft to graduate, and 
anothor hero saved to bring further 
fame to tlio fair namo of Cnrnogio 
Tecli.
Tho moral of tho talo is, Lad ios and 
Clouts, "If ho hadn’t had rod flannels, 
ills handicap would have boon 
scratch I” Skoal!
Classes will .be dismissed at 10:20 
on Friday for the Carnegie Day exer­
cises. The parade will be formed on 
the campus and will be made up in 
the following way: Band, R. O. T. C. 
in uniform, Faculty, Margaret 
Morrison, Arts, Engineering, Depart­
ment of Research and Industries, 
followed by the Plebes. The follow­
ing marshals will have charge: An­
derson, Arts and general marshal, 
Miss Lillian Cowan, Margaret Morri­
son, T. S. Griggs Engineering, A1 Ir­
win Industries.
The Kilts Committee will receive 
one hundred and fifty dollars from 
the Student Council to help pay for 
tho kilts to be worn by the band. 
This brings the total contributed by 
the student body to over fifteen hun­
dred dollars.
Sprinkle and Anderson, were ap­
pointed as student representatives 
on the Gymnasium Committee.
Miss Grant and Irwin were ap­
pointed as a committee to investi­
gate the organizations entitled to 
have their pictures in the Thistle 
this year.
Misses Dorothy Grant and Peg 
Combs were' granted money to de­
fray their expenses to the Woman’s 
National Student Government Con­
vention to bo hold at Randolph-Ma- 
con College this week-end.
Jack Franklin reported that one 
thousand seven hundred and thirty- 
six people went to the W. & J. 
game on tho special trains. Eight 
hundred and sixty traveled to State 
¦College on tho Penn State special 
C. O. Brumbaugh was elected vice 
president to fill tho vacancy mado 
by tho resignation of J. T. Ames.
Jeffers was appointed to the Four 
Schools Freshman Regulations Com- 
mitteo in place of Jack Evans.
As a further step in the plan to link 
up its educational facilities with in­
dustry, Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy, through Acting President T. S. 
Baker, has arranged to have Dr. Irv­
ing Langmuir, research physicist witli 
the General Electric Company at 
¦Schenectady, give a series of three 
lectures at the Institute on November 
27 28 and 2!). The lectures will be 
given in the evening, and in addition 
to the Tech students, executives in 
industrial and scientific fields in the 
Pittsburgh district will doubtless at­
tend in largo numbers in response 
to invitations from Dr. Baker. Ad­
mission will be by free tickets which 
are being distributed through the 
President’s office.
In order that all those who wish to 
attend the lectures may he assured 
the best accommodations possible, Dr. 
Baker.has not as yet decided as to 
what Hall the lectures will be held. 
All those wishing tickets are re­
quested to notify Dr. Baker’s office as 
soon as possible, either ,by mail or in 
pferson. Those requesting reserva­
tions by mail schould enclose self- 
addressed envelopes.
Dr. Langmuir is, to the field of 
physical chemistry, what Edison and 
Stelnmetz are to the electrical field. 
The preliminary announcements of 
his coming to Pittsburgh to give sci-
Student Calendar
TECHNICAL JOURNAL
TO BE ISSUED FRIDAY
(Continued; From Pago Ono.) 
insulator manufacturers aro having 
difficulty 1n keeping their product 
abreast of tho rapidly advancing re­
quirements, An article by F. A. Auli- 
biiugh, ’¡M, touohos upon tho mnmi- 
I’aoturo and use of Insulators and do- 
itorlboH somo of tho problems involvod 
I therein.
Fogs have long made IICo unploas- 
I ant In Pittsburgh and llttlo has boon 
| accomplished until very recently In 
I combating this evil. Tests conducted 
by tho Pittsburgh School of Mines and 
I Mellon institute havo brought about 
results which seem to make fog alle­
viation possible. This work is also 
described in the Journal and may 
provo distinctly important from a 
commercial viewpoint.
In addition, the Technical Journal 
will include its regular departments 
and features.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23
Chapel.......................................................... ................ 12:50, Arts Theater
Band Practice...................................................................7:00, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24 
Carnegie Day.
Carnegie Day Exercises........................................10:45, Carnegie Music Hall
Tea Dance—Science Sophs............................................4.30, Carnegie Union
Dance—M. M. A. A...........................................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25 
Homecoming Day.
Football—Notre Dame vs. Carnegie.................................2:30, Forbes Fielcl
Banquet...........................................................................................Hotel Schenley
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 26
Musical Clubs ’ Practice—Glee Club..........................2:30, Exhibition Hall
Mandolin Club.................2:30, Carnegie Union
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27
Gross Country.....................................................National Intercollegiate Meet
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30 
Banquet—Micl-Wost Association.
Thanksgiving Vacation...............Classes resumed Monday, December -I
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8
Banquet- Junior Class...............................................................llotol Chatham
Dance—Cosmopolitan Club (tentative;)...................9:00, Carnegie Union
SATI Illl)AY, I)E(’EM I\ER {)
Bazaar—M. M. C. O. -Old Guild Reorganized......8:00, Carnegie Union
Personnel Convention
Delegates Visit School
The national convention of tho Per­
sonnel Association of America was 
held last week in Pittsburgh, and 
Carnegie Tech was represented in va­
rious ways. On Saturday, about forty 
men representing some of America’s 
largest companies visited the school 
to get an idea of the way in which 
work was carried on here. They were 
shown through the many divisions, 
and were given special demonstra­
tions in the Research Department 
offices. James Knox, of the Lever
Bros. Company of England, manufac­
turers of several well known soaps, 
was one of the visitors. Me is Per- 
IE mu'1 Manager for this company and 
is well acquainted with personnel 
work of all kinds. He was very much 
impressed with the work being done 
at Carnegie Tech and expressed the 
beliGf that we are far ahead of for­
eign psychologists in this type of 
work.
Dr. E. K. Strong, Jr.. of the Re­
search Bureau gave a talk at one of 
the convention meetings on “Psycho­
logical Tests and Rating Scales in 
Relation to Training.” Dr. Strong is 
a member of the Carnegie Tech Re­
search Bureau Faculty.
CARNEGIE DAY BRINGS
NOTED EDUCATOR HERE
DEBATING CLUB TO
MEET TOMORROW
(Continued From. Paco Ono.) 
ilergyman. Life Is a matter of shles- 
manship. The engineer, to succeed, 
must bo ablo to sell himself. Experi­
ence In public speaking is ono of tho 
host aids a student can secure. With 
this thought In mind, ’attendance' at 
tho mooting tomorrow night is urged.
Any man registered at Carnegie 
Tech in a course that loads to a de­
gree Is eligible for membership. Ap­
proximately twenty-five men will 
compose tho active members of this 
association, this group being selected 
by a system of competitive debating 
from tlio men applying for member­
ship. As stated abovo, any man who 
is interested in debating, is urged to 
make application for membership at 
the meeting tomorrow night.
Last year considerable interest was
DR. IRVING LANGMUIR
entific lectures has been received with 
much enthusiasm by industrial execu­
tives connected with electrical indus­
tries in Pittsburgh.
Electrical engineering is on tho 
threshold of a new era which bids fair 
to be of greater importance to the 
service of mankind than anything that 
lias gone before. To this new devel­
opment is now being given the name 
of electron engineering. Telephony, 
radio work, power transmission and 
illumination have all been greatly ad­
vanced as a result of these discoveries 
about the behavior of the smallest 
parts of matter—tho electron. Much 
of tlio progress! that has been made in 
electron engineering can be attrib­
uted to the researches in the field of 
physical chemistry by Dr. Langmuir
To tho electrical industry at large 
Dr. Langmuir is probably best known 
ns tho inventor of tho gas filled in­
candescent tungsten lamp. It is a 
icurious fact that the early experi­
menters who wore searching for an 
incandescent lamp started with gas 
filled bulbs, but because they did not' 
know the laws governing energy dis­
sipation from small wires they con­
cluded that only exhausted lfiilbs 
could be used. Dr. Langmuir has also 
been engaged in making investiga­
tions on electric heating devices and 
on laws of heat transmission in elec­
trical machinery.
Dr. Langmuir’s investigations of 
high vacua,have made him the lead­
ing authority on chemical reactions
‘HUE TO THE LINE!”—not very! “The most vital experiment in the 
good advice! theater today is being conducted at
Did you ever hear of a man who Carnegie Tech.” — John Galsworthy, 
does nothing but smoke cigars, learn-1 author.
ing to smoke a pipe? Did you ever “There is no school of drama in ex- 
liear of a man who only thinks, get- istence where conditions so nearly
ting anywhere in this world of prac­
tice and do? Did you ever hear of a 
man who only keeps himself com­
pany, making friends with other peo­
ple? Did you ever hear of a college 
professor who only expounds theories, 
getting anywhere in this cold busi­
ness world of production? Maybe you 
can answer all of these affirmatively, 
but you must, at the same time, ad­
mit the exceptions are exasperating- 
ly few and far between.
Diversification is the spice of life— 
not the prime requisite of success, 
but that which makes life worth 
while.
Carnegie Tech is proud of the di­
versification of her courses. Engi­
neering, industries, architecture, mu­
sic, drama, painting, illustration, 
sculpture, domestic science, social 
work, etc.—all go towards making
approach the professional stage.”—B. 
Iden Payne, New York Produce^ 
"Only school of its kind in the 
world.”
In the past eight years, the Depart­
ment of Drama has given eight hun­
dred and forty-seven public perform­
ances of one hundred and eighty-one 
different plays.
Matinees are given every Friday for 
the professional companies who are 
playing in Pittsburgh. This gives 
them a chance to become acquainted 
with the school and its work. During 
the last two years, seventy-five well- 
known professional actors and act­
resses have visited the school and 
have witnessed performances.
This school is sending its graduates 
to Broadway. They are playing im­
portant parts, supporting large casts, 
and in every way showing what the 
Carnegie Tech the truly great Ameri-1 School of Drama at Carnegie Tech. 
can institute of learning. Anyone of really is.
these alone would stamp Carnegie Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech as being narrow—but with them Tech. 
all, Carnegie Tech is broad. She is 
teaching her students something else 
besides the purely technical.
New Course in Fine 
Printing is Installed
Instituted at Request of 
Pittsburgh Printers
A special composite course in finer 
printing subjects has been organized 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
at the request of a group of printing 
pliant executives in Pittsburgh. About 
thirty executives, many of them the 
owners of large printing companies 
in the city, attended the first session 
Tuesday evening.
The course Is unusual because It 
has been designed at the request of 
the class, which is recruited among 
executives, and is actually a private 
undertaking. The subjects to be in­
cluded in the course are not in the 
Printing Department curriculum, but 
are allied *to the printing industry.
Dr. E. K. Strong, head of the De­
partment of Educational Research, 
will give a short course of lectures on 
psychology of selling. D. Frank Sul­
livan, instructor in the Department 
of Applied Art, will teach typographic­
al design. Porter Carnett, instructor 
in Fine Printing, will give a series of 
lectures, and there will also be short 
courses in chemistry and other sub­
jects requested by the printers.
In adapting its educational facili­
ties to fill this recent need, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology has made a 
further advance in its program of co­
operation with outside industry.
manifested in the Debating Associa- 
lion meetings and debates, as well aa j rt^e^"ioVprearareZbut"his‘latest 
in the intercollegiate debates witli i contribution to theoretical science has 
such schools as Washington and Jet- J heBI1 the d0velol)ment of his theory 0[ 
rerson and Grove City. The men com- ¦ tUe .UTangement 0{ eIectrcms in 
nosing the debating team will his atomic anfl moleoular stvucture, wUich 
year, as well as last year be picked ! accounts for tbB phenomena already 
iron, the membership> of the associa-, knmvn t0 chemlsts. xhis tUeory is 
tion, by the coach. Since the Debat-1
(Continued from Page One) 
from seven other colleges and uni­
versities.
One of the features of tho day will 
be the procession to the Music Hall of 
the entire faculty and student body. 
The faculty will assemble in the lower 
corridor of the Central Building at 
10:30, for the march to the hall. Mr. 
H. K. Kirkpatrick will act as mar­
shal of the faculty, Lillian Cowan as 
marshal for the Margaret Morrison 
(School, T-om Griggs for Science, Ed­
ward Anderson for Arts, and A1 Irwin 
for Industries. The students and fac­
ulty will be in line in tho following 
order:
1. Band In kilts. 2. R. O. T. C. in 
uniform. 8. President and guests. 4. 
Members of executive board In caps 
and gowns, 5. Hoads of departments. 
(!. Profossors who aro not; heads of 
departments. 7. Associate profoss­
ors. S. Assistant profossors and 
head instructors. 5). Instructors and 
assistant instructors, 10. Senior 
class, 11. Junior class, 12. Sopho­
more class. 13 Freshman class.
In addition to tho address by Sir 
j Robert, tho committed lias worked up 
a very Interesting program as fol* 
! lows:
I Or?aii prelude by Mathew Froy of 
the Department of Music. Orchestra 
selections by Symphony Orchestra of 
Music Department, directed by Prof. 
j O’Brien. Selections by Male Glee 
: Club led by Mr. Riehl.
| Announcement of scholarships and 
prizes awarded for present year. The 
Glee Club will present a new setting 
for the Alma Mater which, it is be­
lieved. will prove to be very popular 
with the students.
ing Association is a recognized activ­
ity at Carnegie Tech, it secures the 
full co-operation and support of the 
Student Activities Board.
A meeting of the members of last 
year’s Debating Association was held 
last Wednesday night, Sclioerke, 
Vana, Burr, Silverman and Maust be­
ing present. Important business was 
taken up at this meeting, including 
the selection of a coach for this year.
MIDWEST ASSOCIATION BANQUET
I (Continued from Page One) 
from the States west of Ohio, includ­
ing thereby the score or more co-eds 
from those 'States.
I A committee was appointed at the 
meeting held two weeks ago in the 
i Mnrgurot Morrison recreation room, 
and tills committee has been hard at 
I work since that time, perfecting 
plans for the coming feast. Plans 
aro boing mado to havo more than 
sixty studonts prosent. The banquet 
will bo held at a downtown hotel and 
j tho price will bo within tiie reach 
of all.
An entertainment committoo was 
appointod last Sunday, and it is 
I practically certain that thore will bo 
no rest for the weary, from the time 
tho first cocktail (prohibition cock­
tail, mind you) makes its appearance 
until the strains of the last waltz 
dies away. Yes, there will be danc­
ing for those who desire it. All stu­
dents from the West who desire to 
attend should let some member of 
the association know, and covers will 
bo arranged for them.
comprised in what are known as the 
Langmuir postulates.
The subjects of his lectures in 
Pittsburgh will be: (1) Electron
Emission from Heated Metals; (2) 
Electron Emission from Thoriated 
Filaments; (3) Methods of Controll­
ing Electron Currents in High 
Vacuum.
were given a ride to anneal their tem­
pers, being finally deposited near the 
boundaries of Wilkinsburg together 
with a plank and two sizable blocks 
of concrete to escort back to school. 
The plank arrived safely Friday morn­
ing but the cement products were 
slower in appearing on the campus.
What about tho steeple jack’s 
wages? The Plebe class furnishes 
the wages and “Midge” Matter is the 
stoeplo jack; all due to the three 
Plebes who affixed the numerals ’26, 
to tho flag staff. The banner appeared 
so offensive that Dean Tarbell called 
for a steeplo jack and the Science 
Soph treasurer responded. The flag­
pole is again clear and the Class of 
’2G is confronted with a bill for ten 
dollars!
Start the | 
Week Right f
X
Church on Sunday $ 
puts new pep into Mon- £ 
day, Tuesday, Wednes- £ 
day—till Sunday comes £ 
again. Try it and see. £
y*Oakland Methodist J 
Church |
FORBES AND f 
BOQTJET
“Fifty steps from the $ 
campus” &
as
" Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M. :
College Men’s Bible
Class ...............10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00 P.M.
Christian Endeavor
Societies .................. 7:00 P.M.
«Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
Choice of a Career
From the Yale News
CURFEW NEEDED FOR 
UNFORTUNATE PLEBES
How many paces from Carnegie 
Tech to the city line? What is the 
Union wage for a steeple jack? These 
two questions are now stirring the 
Plebe class as a direct result of the 
investigations made by a committee, 
self-appointed probably, which opened 
an advertising campaign for the Class 
of '20.
Tho unsought problems were tho 
climax of a somi-sucoessful attempt 
against the Soph class by Messrs. 
Bowron, Schoter, and Bowers of the 
aforesaid committoo arid the coinci­
dent homecoming of 11 vo Sophs from 
Grafton after a vain search to secure 
certain guests for the Soph banquet. 
At 3:00 a. m. Friday, “Cy” Hoeunin- 
ger, Scrimgeour, Proctor, Kollfolz, 
and Jack Bright, returning in tho hit­
ter’s car from the scene of their fruit­
less efforts, discovered three Plebes, 
sans caps, passing the iSkibo. Realiz­
ing that all Freshmen should be in 
by 11:00 p. m. immediate inquiries 
of the cause or causes so severely in­
terfering with the little one’s sleep 
It. s^a wise cork that knows its own were instituted with negative results, 
“pop.” Life. The Plebes proved cantankerous and
i!
mmm
m
m
THE NINETY-FOUR
Someone, probably an insurance 
agent, was quoted recently as saying 
that from the mass of one hundred 
college graduates one individual only 
rose to the Polo and butler class, peril­
ously near the top of the financial lad­
der. Five others became comf.ortably 
off and found themselves after twenty 
years at the small yacht and chauffeur 
stage. The other ninety-four presum­
ably congregate in the great section of 
the American people who drive their 
own Buicks to the golf club. In other 
words, dreaming about being a rich 
man is one thing, and making the grade 
is something else again.”
Yet the ninety-four presumably work 
just as hard as the sumptuous six. Their 
business is the axis on which a small 
and uninteresting world revolves. They 
have become devotees of the dollar 
and when that fickle deity deserts, have 
nowhere else to turn. Jammed in a 
dull, straight rut of business they can 
never leave the road and jump.the fence 
into finer fields of life. This, then, is 
the portion of nineiy-four men out of 
every hundred now on the campus.
The answer to the problem lies in 
the proper choice of a career.
Between now and Commencement 
we shall have something to offer on 
the subject of “Careers.” Watch for 
the space with the Famous Signature.
IS 
0
n
SARC OMNGFBMDC,EV.BM25
or YEN4EM1 0BNNBDLGNC44N
81
m
m
m
mm
Hm
m

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBÉR 22, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID CROSS COUNTRY TEAM 
WINS A. M. A. CHAMPIONSHIPOn the Plaid ScreenNOTRE DAME STARS WHO WILL BATTLE PLAID
Pitt Team Annexes Second Position; 
Tartan Reserves in Third Place
DYKEMAN IS SECOND AT FINISH
Carnegie Tecli’s cross .country team 
romped away with the Senior A. A. 
TJ. Championship of the A. M. A. last 
Saturday with a minimum pf 26 
jjfoints. The University of Pitts­
burgh was second with 42 points 
and the Tartan Reserves were third 
with a total of 87 points. Earl 
Johnson, representing the Edgar 
Thompson Steel Works, was the in­
dividual winner with Dylceman of 
Carnegie second, and Corbett of Pitt, 
third.
John Taylor started the men from 
in front of the Margaret Morrison 
building shortly after 1 o’clock. The 
course of five and one-half miles was 
soggy from the rains of a few hours 
before and of course the runners 
were slowed up considerably. The 
time was 28:31.
The following is a summary of the 
finish: Johnson, Edgar Thompson
Steel, first; Dylceman, Carnegie, sec­
ond; Corbett, Pitt, third; McKelvey, 
ICarnegie, fourth; Ferrall, Carnegie 
fifth; Hays, Pitt, sixth; Mendenhall, 
Carnegie, seventh; Tubbs, Carnegie, 
eighth; Greenlaw, Carnegie, ninth; 
Riley, .Pitt, tenth Scliroedil, Pitt, 
eleventh; Wadkins, Pitt, twelfth; 
Bright, Carnegie, thirteenth; White, 
Pitt, fourteenth; Bender, Carnegie, 
fifteenth; Moore, Bethany, sixteenth; 
Hinderer, Carnegie, seventeenth; 
Sampson, Carnegie, eighteenth; Cost, 
Pitt nineteenth; Swanson, Carnegie 
twentieth.
Moore and FI el i me- of Bethany ran 
sixteenth and twenty-first respective­
ly, but they did not figure in the 
team score since there were no other 
entries for Bethany. This is the first 
time that Carnegie .Tech has ever 
conducted the Senior Championship's
TRAVELERS’'CHECKS 
No matter where you go, 
east, west, north, south, 
we can provide you with 
travelers’ checks which 
will assure the safety of 
your funds. They are ex­
changeable anywhere 
without further trouble or 
expense. Call, or write 
our Steamship Agency 
which Is a part of our or­
ganization.
Mellon National BankOliver wHue.& Strvrthfield1
and 'Manager Lucas and his staff of 
assistants deserve mention for the 
successful way in which the meet 
was conducted. Medals were given 
to the1’ first three individual winners 
and team medals to the first three 
teams.
CARNEGIE TARTANS PRIMED 
FOR CONTEST WITH NOTRE
DAME’S POWERFUL TEAM
(Continued from Page One) 
November 25. Months ago reserva­
tions for that contest came into the 
Graduate Manager’s office and there 
has been no let up. More than a 
decade has elapsed since Notre Dame 
has played in Pittsburgh and the pub­
lic is clamoring for a place to witness 
the contest. It is the only football 
attraction in the Smoky City on that 
day, and the crowd is sure to be a 
record breaker.
To make what is bound to be good, 
better, the band will make its first 
public appearance in kilts. What will 
present a finer .sight than the band, 
sixty strong, parading across Forbes 
Field outfitted in genuine Scotch 
kilts? It is to be the final appearance 
of the band during the football sea­
son, but the first appearance of a col­
lege band equipped in kilts in the 
United States.
Enthusiasm is running so high in 
the' student body that they need no 
urging to attend the game. Every­
one is going. A record attendance is 
assured. The only thought remaining 
is that of the actual contest. Steffen 
is going to have the material and the 
plays to defeat Knute Rockne’s west­
ern giants. No team, however strong 
it may be, can win without the sup­
port of the students. The men them­
selves will play the game of their 
lives; the band will appear in all its 
glory; it is up to the student body 
to do the cheering. The last game 
and biggest game of the year; the 
best team we have ever had; the 
best coach in the country; why not^ 
the best demonstration of school 
spirit, and what is more real Carnegie 
spirit, in the history of Pittsburgh? 
Be there with two lungs and a heart 
overflowing for the Crimson clad war­
riors. x Pittsburgh is sure to feel proud 
of Carnegie’s football machine; it is 
tip to the student body to reassure 
this city of the existing Carnegie 
spirit. New Haven knows what it is; 
Little Washington hardly had room 
for us and State College had its share 
of the Carnegie Tech population. 
Forbes Field is due for a Carnegie 
Day and it promises to excel all the 
other important games of the season,
By H. H. WILSON
THE IRISH ARE COMING 
We’re glad you’re coming Notre Dame, 
Your string of wins is mighty fine,
But If you’re living on your fame,
Just watch your step, advice—that's mine.
Yes, Notre Dame is coming back for a game in this district for the first j 
time since 1917 when they handed W. & J. a 3-0 setback at Little Washing- ! 
ton. Their fame has spread far and wide and has made them a big drawing j 
card whenever they invade a foreign field. Their season so far has been a 
niost successful one, and it looks as though Steffen’s crew will have to make j 
the dirt fly to come out of the battle on Saturday with colors flying.
Wally has been giving the boys considerable rest, but this week they i 
are due for some real hard work. The St. Bonaventure tilt was cancelled to j 
guard against further injuries, to give the men the needed rest, and to pie- j 
pare for the game with Rockne’s outfit. This was a wise and strategic step \ 
on the part of the athletic authorities, and incidentally it is the first time j 
that such a measure has ever been taken.
BURIED WITH A VENGEANCE
So the Pitt harriers said in reference to the proverbial hatchet after 
bowing before the Plaid cross country runners on Saturday. They were high­
ly pleased at the treatment they received over here and although tasting de­
feat, went back with the feeling that they had helped to put the final seal 
on the friendship bond between the two schools.
Here’s our sincere congratulations, Pitt, on your glorious victory over 
the Presidents. It means added fame to our city which can boast of two in­
stitutions with Class A football teams, something that few cities can do.
THE FLOOR SEASON
Is rapidly approaching, and Coach Waddell already has his men going 
through the preliminary workouts. The schedule includes some of the best 
teams in this section and others from the east. The newly formed basket 
ball conference^ in this district gives the Plaid an opportunity for higher 
honors. However, there is still the handicap of lack of space in the old 
gym and there are no prospects of the neAV one before next year.
The kilties are planning to blossom forth on Saturday so pray for mild 
weather, girls. You know what abbreviated skirts are like.
SPEAKING OF DOPE
It looks as though the Big Three championship was definitely settled 
after Princeton’s victory last Saturday. It sort of robs the Yale-I-Iarvard 
annual classic of some of its traditional glory. In fact it lost considerable 
prestige, for Harvard was forced to bow before Brown, 3-0.
But the biggest upset was without a doubt our neighbors’ victory over 
W. & J., although Penn's triumph over the Nittany Lion was something out 
of the ordinary. It looks as though these critics have a real job \ before 
them in picking the best team after the season ends.
KANE, Right Halfback.LAYDEN, Left Halfback.
Scotch and Irish to Meet at Forbes Field 
Saturday For the First Time in 
History of Two Schools
STEFFEN SEES PUTLER GAME
A CHAMPION
“Howdie” Dylceman, star runner for the Plaid harriers, received con- I 
siderable notice up around New York way. Some of the-New York papers ' 
gave him a big boost the other day calling him a "menace” to the other 
eastern distance men. Menace is a good word for "Dylce” is a hard man to 
beat. Earl Johnson, national cross-country champion, beat him out in Satur­
day’s race but he was not so far behind and then you must remember that 
Johnson is a runner of long standing and very seldom beaten.
Dylceman will surely have to show all his wares on Monday to beat, 
out such men as Higgins and numerous others. He alreadjr holds one vic­
tory over Higgins, at Syracuse, and should be able to repeat.
The rest of our team is booked by the eastern critics as likely to be a 
strong one and we’re sure that it will give a good account of itself.
SCOUTING
The following iteVn appeared the other day in Warren Brown’s column 
in the New yorlc Evening Mail:
"We know a prominent coach who scouted one of his toughest opponents 
this season, getting his slant at it during a particularly hard game early in 
the schedule.
"He sat on the bench with the opposing coach, and, it is said, called 
play after play by the team he has scouted, and called them- before they 
were fairly tinder way.
“And yet his own team was all but defeated in spite of his knowledge 
of the other’s plays, and won out in the last few minutes more by a break 
in luck than because it was the better team.”
The gist of this article gives us the idea that the coach might bo Greasy 
Neale and the team, our own. He scouted us at the Yale game and the rest 
of the story bears out pretty well. It looks as though Steffen simply put one 
over on him and Neale managed to have1 a last comeback punch that saved 
him.
CARNEGIE PLEBES 
DEFEAT INDIANA
If You Are Not Going Home Thanksgiving
We Are Serving A Real “Old Fashioned” Turkey 
Dinner
All the fixin’s Home Cooked
Frank’s Restaurant
4527 FORBES
Christoff and Donahue Star 
in Indiana Normal Game; 
Final Score 39-2
In College and Out
of College
you need a
RemingtonPortable
In college for your themes, papers, letters 
and lecture notes.
Out of college for all your personal 
writing.
This machine will be your friend for life, 
making your work easier, making your time 
go further.
Remember—it is the most complete of all 
portable typewriters — Standard Keyboard, 
with four rows of keys and no 
shifting for figures.
Also the most compact—fits in 
case only 4 inches high. Price, 
complete with case, $60.
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER 
COMPANY, INC.
102 SIXTH STREET 
Bessemer Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Paragon Ribbons for Remington Portable Typewriters 
5oc each—$5 a dozen
I There were many saddened hearts 
| around Indiana Normal School after 
the game with the Tartan Plebes, 
for they received their first defeat 
of the season at the hands of Coach 
Beeler’s squad.
It was a great day at the school 
as it was home-coming day, and the 
game was -witnessed by the largest 
crowd of the season. (Many fair co 
eds were seen displaying the banner 
of “Beat the Tartans.’
The Plebes were primed to the 
p'oint where it was impossible for 
them to lose, for Goach Paul Beeler 
had sent them through their hardest 
practice last week since the season 
began. It was a game of brother 
against brother as the coach of In­
diana’s team was Don Beeler, a young­
er brother of the Plebe coach.
The game began when Indiana
Cross Country Team to
Run in Intercollegiates
On Monday, November 27, the 
Plaid Harriers will journey to Now 
York to compete in the Intercollo- 
giates over the Van Cortlandt Park 
course. This will be the last meet 
of the season, and Coach Boolor 
hopes r.o have his men at top form 
for this annual event. It is the first 
time that Carnegie Tech has evor 
ran in such a meet and a good 
showing is hdp'ed for.
Dylceman, who romped away to 
victory at Syracuse, will be expect­
ed to finish up toward the front and 
may be a strong contender for the 
Intercollegiate Championship. I-Iow 
ever, there will be obstacles such 
as hurdles, and water jumps on the 
course which the Skibos are not ac­
customed to. Coach Beeler expects 
to try out some of his/.meri on. these 
particular points this week.
Among the other hill and dale 
stars who will compete are: Mai
Douglas, Yale’s star distance runner: 
R. E. M^ndrie of M. I. T., Captain 
Kirby of Cornell, Head and Kerr of 
Penn, and Homer Smith, Syracuse 
leader. New York papers -write up 
Dylceman as a real menace to these 
men and declare that the strugglewon the toss and, elected to kick, 
to the Plebes. Christoff received the! for first and second place will reach 
ball and was tackled on the twenty-1a high level this year. Eighteen 
yard line. On the second play the | colleges are scheduled to take part 
Plebes fumbled and the third was a I an(l • individual entries number 
bad pass, resulting in Christoff. be-
ing tackled behind the goal line for 
a safety. At the end of the first 
quarter the score was Indiana 2, 
Plebes 0.
In the second' quarter, the Plebes 
used short end runs resulting in 
their first touchdown, and at the end 
of the first half the score was 
Plebes 7,, Indiana 2.
At the beginning of the second 
half the Plebes began to show some 
brilliant football. Plays off tackle 
gained all the ground in this quar­
ter, aud the Plebes carried the ball 
across Indiana’s goal line for two 
touchdowns, but failed to kick the 
extra point in one attempt after- 
scoring a touchdown. The quarter 
ending Plebes 20, Indiana 2,
At the beginning of
two hundred and eighty-seven, a new 
record.
The Notre Dame game, to be played at Forbes Field this coming Satur- 
day, will wind up the football season for Carnegie Tech. The powerful 
Iioosier state.team does not know the bitter taste of defeat. The Slcibo 
eleven does. Both teams have had a hard schedule, but this game means 
more to each team than any of the preceding games. For the Indiana team 
to be defeated after a season thus far unmarred by a reverse score, would 
sadly dull their hopes for a high place in the 1922 football records. For 
Carnegie Tech to suffer anything less than a tie in this final game would 
give her a setback to be regained only by a victorious team next fall.
The South Bend boys have never met the Tartans on the gridiron and 
for that reason they are all the more anxious to talco back with thorn a piece 
of the Plaid that has already had two*!* 
holes torn in it.
> In 15)17 Coach Knute Rockno’s 
Irish warriors invaded this district 
and carried home a 3 to 0 victoiy 
over W. and .1. With a better bal­
anced team this soason they re­
turn with the expectations of a clean 
victory ovor the Plaid.
Each team has received a blow to 
Its lino by injuries. Tom Lleb,
Notre Dame right tackle, sustained 
a broken log about one month back, 
while Rod Goddon, Carnogio Tech 
end, had a similar accident In tho 
Allegheny game throo weeks ago,
Frank Thomas, the speedy quarter­
back for tho Indiana lads, is an ox- 
coilont sprinter on end runs, and 
can also avoid tho opposing ends 
well when racing down a punt. Cap­
tain Carborry, left ond, directs the 
visiting foam. Ho is a veteran at 
tho game and besides knowing all 
tho tricks of the ond position, ho 
has tho ability to inspire Ills mon.
Tho Carnogio machine has had a 
rest for two weeks, but this rest was 
a nocossity, and will prove to bo tho 
only moans of recuperation for a 
crippled and bruised team.
Coach Wally Stoffon and Assistant 
Coach Bob Waddoll, both attended 
tho Notro Dame-Butlor game last 
Saturday, so with tho dope thoy 
gatliorod on tho plays at that game, 
together with all previous informa-
ti$ |nccrnlng igck plivys an,I tin« I carh"e’S.B4-W#™burg 
formations nan» by Notro Darao,1CllrI£Sje T0ch.. 0_Ylllo ..
every evening. There is no lot. up of 
scrimmage, and every man Is train­
ing as though his life depended upon 
his physical condition as it would 
be when ho outers tho game on Sat­
urday.
A feeling predominates the campus 
that not only tho coaches and play­
ers of tho Indiana institution, but 
the adherents of that school are in 
for a surprise in Carnegie's season 
final.
NOTRE DAMli BOASTS
OF PERFECT RECORD
Notro Damo lias a vory crodltabio 
record so far and il, fororasts i.roublo 
for StefL'on’a grldders, II; ls as l'ol- 
lows:
Notro Damo........<1(1—Kalamazoo ... 0
Not.ro Damo........2(1—St. Louis ........ 0
Notro Damo......20—Purduo ........... 0
Notro Damo........84—Do l’auw ........ 0
Notro Damo......:lil—Gdorgla Tocli.. 21
Notro Damo........27—Indiana .......... 0
Notro Damo... 0—Army ............. 0
Notro Damo
CAPTAIN CARBERRY, Left End-
Carnegie Floor Season 
Rapidly Gets Under Way
New Prospects Give Promise 
of Development
Fifty candidates answered Coach 
Waddell’s call for men for the bas­
ketball team last week. Capt. Bell 
was the only man from last year’s 
team who responded but it is expect­
ed that a good many of the mon now 
playing football will be out as soon 
as the football season closes. Coach 
Waddoll states that a good many of 
tho new mon show promise of devel­
oping into excellent players but it. is 
too oarly in the soason to bo able to 
judge just who thoy are.
Tho men have boen practising pass­
ing tho ball every afternoon in tho 
gymnasium, and this work Is moroly 
to get them in good condition. Next 
Monday, tho mon from tho football 
squad will roport, and practice will 
start In oarnopt. Tho squad will prob­
ably bo cut avltliIn a couple of weeks 
and teams will ho selected. In this 
way tho coach will bo able to got a 
hotter ldoa of the ability of the mon. 
From present. Indications, and know­
ing tho ability of Waddoll to develop 
good teams, tho student body pi' Car­
negie ToeU can oxpoot a team which 
will ho up to tho standard of former 
years.
JUNIORS TO BANQUET
ON CHATHAM ROOF
(Continilod From Page One.) 
Olilii Newman and the mystic dauco 
of "Doc” Taylor. Tills Is no mean as­
sortment If they can he procured, and 
it looks as though they would bo on
32—Butler ............. !! I hand, One or two dancers will also
. . ho secured to round out tho program.
108 (11 A good orchestra, will furnish the mu-
But look at tho Tartan's record, n ",r Tl,° Oolleglate Six will lie so 
doesn’t sparlilo quite as much but j (3UJ,(’(* ^ possible, 
scores hollo thomsolvos, 
over:
Carnogio Tech. .27—Genovathey arc drilling tho squad on th
1101,1 and at iho .board until Into| CnrI(0gio Toch.. 7_w. & .......
“...... ................................................Carnegie Toch.. 50—Tholl .............‘CASUALTIES BETTER’ SAYS i ^rnwio Toci.-ss-aro™ .Carnegie Toch,. 7—Allegheny .ECHO FROM FIELD HOUSE ^$8® Toch-• O-Poim State
quarter, Donahue intercepted a for- score
ward pass and ran 40 yards for a 
touchdown. Indiana kicked and 
Christoff received the ball and ran 
fifty yards before being tackled. The 
next play was a reverse play and 
Christoff carried the ball 35 yards 
for another touchdown. Through con­
stant line plunging they scored the 
third touchdown in this quarter. 
When the final whistle blew the 
score was Plebes 30, Indiana 2.
The Plebes showed their bpst form 
of the season, and the men who sr.ar- 
red were: Christoff, Donahue, Van
Alta, Reed, Beede and Pittman. 
Kramer’s work on defense was of 
the best. Their team work was won- 
the fourth | derful which Is proven by tho final
**?
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE*
From within tho confines of the 
Carnegie Tech field house comes 
cheering dope. Most of tho men who 
wore on the casualty list after the dis­
astrous encounter with the hoys from 
the Meadville institution of learning 
will be throwing ayay the crutches 
and rejoicing in the strength of phy­
sical prowess. For be it known that 
that venerablo dean, of the field house, 
Munliall by name, is gently wooing 
the Spirit of Hercules back into the 
Tartan camp.
To be more specific, the various | 
players shape up something like this: j 
Comfort’s knee is slowly mending, j 
but it is by no means certain that he ¦ 
will be able to play through the en-! 
tire game against the Notre Dame | 
team; Zelt is feeling quite chipper j 
now and should be at his best on the I 
¡25th; would that the same might be 
' said of Captain Jimmy Anderson, ; 
whose shoulder is still giving some I 
trouble, but who will no doubt be in | 
the lineup against the clever Indiana J 
Irish.
Moran is still favoring his Injured 
arm, but hopes to be able to throw a 
few good passes; Obie Newman’s in­
jured ligaments have now healed and 
he will he in good condition. Brum­
baugh, Potter,' Sprinkle, Gilbert, 
Rosenbloom, Robertson and Lamb 
will be O. K„ barring accidents.
"Red” Godden is still lying in his 
cot out at' the Presbyterian Hospital. 
He has played Ills last game for Car­
negie Tech. An effort will bo made 
to move him to the sidelines where 
lie can see his erstwhile teammates 
fight, agahtst Notre Dame in what 
should have been, but for tho fancy I 
of Dame Fortune, the crowning event 
of "Hod's” football carer. In case the 
hospital staff holds him for no gain, 
ho will again hear tho returns over . 
I the radio outfit which the Y, M. C. A. 
Installed in his room.
Well,'to sum tilings up, the outlook I 
is bright for a good showing on Sat­
urday. True, the squad will be handi­
capped by injuries, but not as greatly 
as at Penn Satte.* We can, however, 
be sure that the men on the Tartan 
team will fight every minute of the i 
way and strive to bring glory to the 
Clan.
Look this I Thoro will ho prominent guests 
from the throo schools,* Those men 
0 will bo ones who have shown special 
i;j Interest In tho follows, if Ih going to 
(j bo a real joyful gathering whore every 
7 one ls supposed to onjoy hlmsolf. Tho 
0 purpose of tho banquet hi for tho class 
to become more thoroughly apquaint- 
0 od, so come and forgot your school 
10 troubles and have a good time, The 
price Is moderate so buy your tickets 
early as thoro will he. only a limited 
number printed. Tickets on sale now.
MR. COOK SPEAKS TO C. M. E. 8.
ON TECHNICAL MAGAZINES
(Continued From Page One.) 
is hoped this year to make the organi­
zation a live one, and to make each 
meeting one from which a great deal 
of good may be derived. To do tills 
it is necessary to have the co-opera-
Somo women operate on tho basis 
that it Is hotter to bo naughty than 
to be noglooted.—The BÍaclc and Ma­
genta, Otterbein College.
tion of all Mechanicals. Sophs, seo 
to it that you are out at the next meet­
ing.EXCLUSIVE
Oakland Dealers for
Trimble Hats Tyson Shirts
Cooper Underwear
&TM^the PAJAMAS and JftüflO NIGHT SHIRTS
DAVIES & HUGHES
OAKLAND S MEN’S STORE
3615 Forbes St.Next to Strand Theater
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH 8TATIONER 
NEW8, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes ’Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
I lead to Foot.
Aliy Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 22, 1922
j Let’s Pep Up On the
Songs Before Sat. Game of Alumni; $1,000 Yet Needed
Kilts Drive Deserves Support NOV. 25 IS ALUMNI
HOMECOMING DAY
ALUMNI MUST PAY DUES •> 
TO RECEIVE TARTAN v
WASHINGTON CLAN TO MEET 
NOVEMBER TWENTY-SEVENTH
On Monday evening. November 27, 
at eight o’clock, the first meeting of 
the 1922-23 season will be held at the 
home of Carl Zobel, 701 Rock Creek 
Church road, N. W. This will be a 
very important and interesting meet­
ing. Officers for the coming year will 
be elected. “Bill” Norman, our presi­
dent, will give some first-hand infor­
mation about the present situation 
at Carnegie, as he but recently at­
tended a conference in Philadelphia. 
Plans will be made for the coining 
year, which we want to make a “big” 
year in our history.
We want a big crowd out at this 
meeting—tell anyone who may not 
otherwise hear of this meeting, and 
let’s show the old time Carnegie Tech 
spii’it. All visitors and new arrivals 
are urged to get in touch with the 
secretary, Herbert W. Haller, 1103 
Munsey Bldg. Phone Main 5418.
CLEVELAND CLAN NEWS
j Good memories are few and far 
| between, and baa ones cause us 
I endless embarrassmenL At every 
football game, when the band struck 
up the Alma Mater, the weak re­
sponse from the Alumni showed 
their inability to recall the words.
By all means let's prevent this at 
the Notre Dame game at Forbes 
Field on the twenty-fifth. Let’s show 
one hundred per cent spirit by hav­
ing the words of the first stanza on 
the tips of our tongues, all ready to 
roll off.
Indulge in the popular indoor sport 
of refreshing your memory. A few 
minutes of one evening will do the 
trick.
Here where spangled wildernesses 
Robed the fountains of the west. 
Where the savage strife and stresses 
Brought the settlers’crimson quest; 
Land of legend, glory, graces,
Gy:ps;;- tide and toiling shore,
’Mid thy hilltops, Alma Mater 
Stands enthroned forevermore. 
Hail Carnegie! Alma Mater— 
Stand enthroned forevermore!
About thirty members of the Cleve­
land Clan assembled in the Rainbow 
room of- the Hotel Winton on Sun­
day, November 18, and heard M. R. 
Walton discuss various phases of the 
situation at Tech. . Many rumors 
have been stirring the alumni lately, 
and those present listened with a 
great deal of interest to the things 
Walton had to tell. Many who were 
absent will be sorry that they missed 
it, as the things talked about are 
very close to the hearts of all real 
Tech alumni.
On Tuesday night, November 2S, 
at 6:45 p. m., there will be a din­
ner, informal dancing, and cards in 
the Georgian Room of the Hotel 
Cleveland. All alumni and former 
students in the vicinity of Cleveland 
are urged to come, with a partner 
if possible,—if not, come anyway. 
The committee guarantees that you’ll 
get acquainted "with everybody, and 
have a real party. Notify the sec­
retary if you will be there.
BROTHER OF A. N. HEYL
COACHES UNDEFEATED
HIGH SCHOOL TEAM
M. M. Holds Memorial
For Anna Marie Eyler
The Margaret Morrison Assembly, 
held Wednesday, was primarity a 
memorial service in honor of Anna 
Marie Eyler, the Margaret Morrison 
Senior, whose tragic death last week 
so shocked the school.
Dean Breed gave a short talk on 
the character of the dead girl and 
Priscilla - Allison in behalf of the 
Senior class, also led a short memor­
ial service. Dean Brown was present.
The remainder of the time Dean 
Breed took in. making several an­
nouncements. Dorothy Grant made a 
number of announcements, one to the 
effect that the senate had decided 
that the general bulletin board in the 
main hall was to be used hereafter 
only ¡for notices that afilected the 
whole school. All personal, class, and 
other notices must be placed on the 
class boards.
Clansmen, you’ve heard the oracle 
speak. Carnegie Tech’s Band is £o- 
ing to have kilts. They are ordered. 
Two thousand dollars has been 
raised, mostly from among the stu­
dent body. Get together as soon as 
possible and plan some concerted ac­
tion. Pledge a certain definite 
amouut a* a Clan. Then tax each 
each member proportionally. One 
dollar is a low minimum. The ex­
tent to' which your heart is in the 
plan will be measured by your gen­
erosity. Make your check or money 
order payable to G. L- Tilbrook. 
Treasurer, and mark it “Kilties.” 
Then come out and see the good 
work you: have done. The kilts will 
make their first appearance at the 
Notre Dame game on Alumni Home­
coming Day, November 25.
DR. EDWIN VAN ETTEN WILL 
SPEAK AT CHAPEL TOMORROW
Day Will be Marked by Big 
Game With Notre Dame; 
Banquet at 7:00
*
W. C. I-Ieyl, former Techite, and 
brother of A. N. Heyl, Cashier of C. 
I. T., has taken a position teaching 
manual training at Miami High 
School, Miami, Fla. Mr. Heyl is also 
assisting coaching the Miami High 
football team, and although it is the 
school’s first year on the gridiron, 
they are undefeated to date, and 
hop’e to play the post season game 
with either Duval High of Jackson­
ville or Gainesville High, to decide 
the State championship.
LOST
A Theta Xi fraternity pin was lost 
Friday night at the M. M. dance. Will 
the finder p'lease return to D. A. 
Sclioerke, Theta X.i House. 4902 
Forbes street.
A small gold wrist watch, octagon 
shape, link bracelet, was lost some 
place between Arts Building and 
Forbes street. Will the finder please 
return to the Dean’s office -in the 
Arts, Building.
A red sweater was lost by a Beth­
any runner at the start of the A. A. 
U cross country meet in front of the 
Margaret Morrison Building last Sat­
urday. Finder please return to cross 
country room in the gym.
Dr. Edwin Van Etten of the Calvary 
Episcopal Church will talk to the stu­
dent body at chapel tomorrow noon. 
This is the third time that Dr. Van 
Etten appears on the campus, having 
previously spoken twice during the 
Lenten services last year. He is a 
very interesting speaker and deserves 
a good audience.
The "Y” drive »is practically over, 
having secured almost ninety per cent 
of their quota. The Science School 
showed up best in the campaign, the j 
faculty aiding materially. No definite 
statements can be made yet, since Mr. 
Davis hopes to secure *tlie necessary 
ten per cent to complete our quota.
The hour of the Y. M. C. A. free 
swim at the Schenley High School 
pool for Carnegie Tech men students 
has been changed from Tuesday to 
Thursday, from 7 to 8 p. m. The. 
swims have become a popular diver­
sion for the students each week, and i 
the presence of Instructor Blair, of j 
Schenley High, who is on hand to' 
teach beginners how to swim, has at­
tracted large attendance.
SENIOR MINERS INSPECT
LIBERTY TUNNEL WORK
Last Friday the Senior Mining En­
gineers and the second year men 
were permitted to visit the Liberty 
tunnel, which is fast nearing comple­
tion. The main object of this visit 
was to see the engineers drive the 
air tunnel, which is constructed from 
the surface to the tunnels.
This trip was by far the most ben­
eficial one taken this year. Those 
trips will continue throughout the 
rest of the semester to other interest­
ing mining ¿operations in this dis­
trict.
A small size fountain pen barrel 
was lost somewhere on Woodlawn 
avenue. Will the finder please return 
to the Dean’s office.
Shoes. Which kind gets you
there the quickestf
TWO college men were walking down the road, 
when a classmate whizzed by in his car.
“Pretty soft 1” sighed one.
Said the other, “I'll show him. Some day 
I’ll own acar that’s got his stopped thirty ways. ”
The more some men want a thing, the harder 
they work to get it. And the time to start work­
ing—such men at college know—is right now.
All question of classroom honors aside, men 
would make college count for more if they realized 
this fact: You can buy a text book for two or 
three dollars, but you can sell it for as many 
thousand—once you have digested the contents.
This is worth remembering, should you be 
inclined to the self-pity which social comparisons 
sometimes cause. And anyway, these distinc­
tions are bound to be felt, even though your 
college authorities bar certain luxuries as un­
democratic—as perhaps they are.
The philosophy that will carry you through is 
this: “My day will come—and the more work 
I crowd into these four years, the quicker Til 
make good.”
Company
Since 1869 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Number 23 of a series
/
Alumni, it will do your heart good 
to come back to “Dear Old Tech” on 
Alumni Homecoming Day, November 
25. There are a lot of interesting 
things in store for you, and a great 
deal of enthusiasm has been stirred 
up. In the first place, at the game 
with Notre Dame on Fonbes Field, the 
band will be clothed, with the excep­
tion of their knees, in kilts.
The anticipation of seeing, at last, 
a kiltie baud representing Carnegie 
Tech at the football games should be 
enough of an attraction to bring back 
even the farthest alumnus.
This is not only the last game of 
the season, but it is sure to be the 
best one, for Bob Waddel has scouted 
Notre Dame, and says they have one 
of the best football machines he has 
ever seen in action. You know what 
that means. It means that “Wally” 
Steffen will use every honorable de­
vice in his power to beat Notre Dame. 
He will uncover everything he has!
After such a game as this is certain 
to be, your appetite will bat 800 or 
more. Well, as soon as you have re­
covered your breath for another burst 
of pep, the banquet at the Schenley 
Hotel which will be about 7 o’clock, 
will claim your attention. Reserve 
your place at the banquet by filling 
out the blank on page 4 of this 
issue.
If you want tickets for the game 
your reservations must be accompan­
ied by check, express or postoffice 
money order, and should be for the 
exnct amount to pay for tho tickets 
ordered, minus credit due for athletic 
coupons returned with order. Orders 
must be accompanied by a sell’-ad- 
dressed, stamped envelope. Make all 
checks and money orders payable to 
Frank H. Iiaaren, treasurer.
Box seats, ?2.f>0; reserved seats, 
$2.00; general admission, $1.50; stu­
dent and alumni athletic books good 
for credit as noted on coupon for 
event No. 7.
The Athletic office will be open on 
Thursday and Friday evenings for tho 
sale of tickets.
Ovor 35,000 poople will see that 
game. Be thoro and help the ro- 
union.
Alumni, you have received sev- 
oral complimentary issues of tho 
Tartan this yoaf. Didn't you on- •!• 
joy receiving news of the 
school? Didn’t you renew your 
supply of the Carnegie Tech * 
Spirit? Well, here’s tho point. 
This is to be the last complimen- 
tary issue of the Tartan which * 
will be sent out this year to * 
those who have not paid their 
Alumni Federation dues. ?
Don’t break this connection 
with your Alma Mater. Pay up <• 
and receive the Tartan and the 
Alumnus for the rest of the year.
If you paid last year it will cost *î* 
you only $2.00, but if you are de- •> 
linquent $4.00 will put you back 
in good standing. If in doubt as * 
to how much you owe, drop a lino 
to the Alumni office. Make * 
checks payable to G. L. Tilbrook, 
Treasurer. *
| ALUMNI! COME TO THE AID
OF THE KILTIE FUND
I The following: is a list of alumni 
j contributors to tho Kiltie Fund in 
i answer to the apinuil in last week's 
Tartan:
T. C. Kindle 
David R Reid 
E. F. Lnndeen 
E. P. Poste 
H. S. Texter 
Harold P. Greemvald 
Edgar F. Obert 
E. .1. Hediund 
A. M. Cooper 
W. H. Bennett 
Charles L. Yqst 
| In comparison to tho total number 
| of Alumni who have gone out from 
Carnegie Tech this list is woefully 
small. The response has been much 
below what was expected, and we 
aro-a long way from tho goal.
All other branches have done their 
part. It is up to you to mako tlifr 
campaign a succes. Make checks pay­
able to G. L. Tilbrook, Treasurer, 
and mark lit ‘'Kilties.” Tho kilts 
have- been shipped. So, lot’s go!
ALUMNI CALENDAR
Seniors in Charge of
Last Science Assembly
,At last Wednesday’s Sclonco As­
sembly, the Senior class had charge 
of the entertainmont, and put on one 
of the best shows of tho semester.
First on tho program wove Ames 
and Jeffries,- who presented a vory 
amusing dialog, with a piano accom­
paniment.
Then came tho big feature, the 
“Sixtet From Loosa”—a. motley quin­
tet of tin-horn players accompanied 
bj' a fair harpist, whose instrument 
cached two-thirds or more of Its 
strings. Tho “sixtet" rendered a num­
ber of popular songs, playing them 
in an unusual manner.
Thomas Griggs was In charge of 
the meeting as the now president of 
the senate is still at the hospital.
SOPHS' ANNUAL BANQUET
UNMOLESTED BY PLEBES
(Continued From Page One.) 
pledged the aid of the Industries 
men to the cause. “Ed” Good, from 
Arts, invited all the other men to 
come over and ask questions about 
that college, and said also that the 
Arts Sophs would help in every pos­
sible way.
Dr. Baker and Dean Morris, al­
though they were not able to be 
present for the dinner, came in later 
and gave interesting talks. Opin­
ions- were stated by the three Presi­
dents, and after these speeches, a 
motion to send “Red” Godden flow­
ers was unanimously carried.
The committee which was respon­
sible for the success of the banquet 
was:
College of Engineering — Charles 
H. James, chairman; Maxwell Scrim- 
geour.
College of Fine Arts—-Waynes 
Koppes, Paul II. Sload.
College of Industries—Michael D. 
Kallfelz, Thomas F. Kelley.
Students desiring to select attrac- 
tive Christmas Greeting Cards, v/ith or 
without name imprinted, Gift Novel- 
ties, Penc'ls and guaranteed safety 
Fountain Pens, should go to Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade. 
—Advertisement.
Tech Shoe 
Repairing
Goodyear Welt System.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24
Carnegie Day.
Dance—M. M. A. A..........................................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25
Football—Notre Dame ancl Carnegie.............................2:30, Forbes Field
Football Banquet  ............................................................7:00, Hotel Schenley
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27
"Washington, D. C., Clan Meeting.................... ...............................S :00 P. M.
701 Rock Creek Church Road, N. W.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2
M. M. Alumnae Bake Sale, C. I. T........................................................All Day
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 3
Recital—Department of Music, C. I. T........................................8:00 P. M.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14 
N. Y. Clan Meeting, Calie Boulevard, Broadway and 41st, St., N. Y. C.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRON—Soeretary, A. C. Sprague, P„ li'. D. No. 24, South Akron, 0.
BOSTON—Secretary, J. P. Maxwoli, P. O. Box 10, Wcllosloy Hills.
BUFFALO—Secretary, W. H. Ricger, Sizer Company.
CHICAGO—Acting Secretary, Nelson P. Rico, 19 La Salle Street.
CINCINNATI—Secretary, Mary Zarobslcy, 25 East Ninth Strcot.
CLEVELAND—Secretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Women’s Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. 0. Spoakor, 10006 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTON—Secretary, L. II. SioglQr, 2505 West ltiverview Avonuo.
DETROIT—Secretary, H. A. Neal, care Michigan Stool Castings Co.
ERIE—Secretary, H. A. Weber, 938 East Sixth Street;.
ELLWOOD CITY-—Acting Secretary, George Dunsoitlv, Jr., East 
Cottage.
T:ß ,XJHOP:UXcting Secretary, P. W. Mareoau, 202 Shonango St.
HARRISBURG—Secretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORD—-Acting Seoretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 1320, care Lon­
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTON—Secretary, J. P. Do Young, 80S Second St., 18.
JOHNSTOWN—Acting Secretary, R. W. Wallace, (Ml Horner St.
LOS ANGELES—Acting Secretary, Mrs. Inez Hcaoocjk Pille, 805 
East Fifty-first Street.
MONONGAHELA VALLEY—Secretary, C. A. Stono, 12.1 Washing­
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORK'—Secretary, * J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avonuo, Wost- 
chester Park, Tuckahoe, N. Y.
NORFOLK—Secretary, W. II. Sands, Bank ol! Commorco Building.
PHILADELPHIA—Secretary, W. P. Lippinoott, 000 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA—President, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company of Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH—Secretary, A. j. Hyncl, Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology.
SHARON—Acting Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUIS—Acting Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON—Secretary, Herbert W. Haller, 110 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWN—Secretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
M. M. Clan Secretary, Elizabeth Stevenson, 722 Bryson Street.
W A T CI-I THE CLAN COLUMN EVE R Y W E E K
Directory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni Federation—President, S. G. Little, ’10; First Vice President, J. F. 
Laboon, '12; second Vice President, H. L. Heilman, '17; Third Vice Pres­
ident, Genevieve Cushwa, '12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, '08; 
Secretary, Edna C. Smith, '09; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, '15.
Board of Governors—Crllege of Fine Arts—Ii. H. 1-Iellman, ’17; M. M- 
Steen, '08; Frank Ivaaren, Associate.
College of Industries—S. G. Little, '10; A. J. Hynd, ’22; W. H. 
RIttB, '12.
College of Engineering—J. F. Laboon, '12; G. L. Tilbrook. '15; M. R. 
Walton, '00.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College—Florence Bechtel, '18; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, '09; Edna C. Smith, ’09.
Representatives at Large—Genevieve Cushwa, ’12; S. M. Vincent, ’08. 
Officers of Alumni Associations—College of Fine Arts—President, H. L. Heil- 
mon...’17; Secretary, Frank H. I-Iaaren; Associate Treasurer. Bertha 
Johnson, ’14.
Board of Governors—C. O. Rleger, ’13; Dorothea Steinmacher, ’19; 
Frederic McConnell, '17; Charlotte Smith, ’18; Sarah Owen, 
Associate.
College of Industries—President, S. G. Little, ’10; Vice President, C. 
K. Koontz, '17; Second Vice President, K. H. B. Julian, ’10; Sec- 
retary-Treasurer, A J. 1-Iynd, '22.
Board of Governors—L. T. Kelly, Associate L. H. Lee, '09; F. Miller, 
'09; J. M. Orr, ’15; G. T. Heddaeus, '19; F. A. Crotliers. '21. 
College of Engineering—President, J. F. Laboon, '12; Secretary- 
Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, '15.
Board of Governors—R. S. Wilson, ’15'; M. R. Walton, ’09; E. F. 
Hirsh, '20; F. I. Gaston, '09; G. L. Tilbrook, '15; H. S. Stock- 
dale, '15; H. G. Nlchol, '21; J. F. Laboon, '12; R. C. Cosgrove, 
'18; E. E. Duff, *13.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College—President, Florence I. Bechtel, 
'18; First Vice President, Jane Linderman Cole. '11; Second Vice 
President, Sue Smith. *17; Secretary-Treasurer, Edna C. Smith, 
'09.
Executive Committee—Mrs. F. I. Gaston, '09; Gail Seilern Fettke, 
'17; Florence Bechtel, '18; Bernice Kruger, '19; Mary Cummings 
Koanoy, ’20; Margaret Grlflln, '21; Josephine Whitney, '22. (The 
officers are members of this Committee.)
4523 FORBES ST. 
(Near Craig)
iXtttttttitttXtìUUtXtttttXUttXttXtXtttX ItiI xxtttx
Batteries Recharged & Repaired 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
Company 
4521 FORBES STREET 
(Near Craig)
Phone Schenley 4545.
Fill Out For Football Banquet
Rcoerve your place at Football Banquet at Hotel 8chenley, November 
25th, by filling out this blank, pnd forward to W. L. Moorchouoc. Do It nowl 
See article on flrot page.
November 25th.
W. L. Moorchead,
522 Pittsburgh Life Building,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Please reserve ................................ covers for me at the Football
Banquet at the Schenley.
Name ...............................................................................................
Address ....................................................................................
FALL UNDERWEAR 
Wo Have Your Style and Slzo.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
CÖIS»
The ìlrsonal.Witini faciline ;
DANCING
------AT------
The
Rittenhouse
i EVERY SATURDAY—0 P. M.
j xxxxxtxxxxxxxxxtxxxxxxxxxtxtxtxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxv
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS,
illlilllllllllllüllülüiilHlIilllülilllll 
Ü Compliments ¡¡j 
of ü
Skibo Inn 1
01a Flavor Lasts
