TARTAN
February 22, 1977 Volume 77, Number 18 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Grego Elected President of SDC
by Amy Boyle
Students’ Dormitory Council elected new 
officers Sunday night. Sam Grego was 
elected President, Carolyn Welty-Vice-Pres- 
ident of Morewood Gardens, Nina Gattel- 
Vice-President of the Hill, Frank Worbs- 
Treasurer, and Linda Becker-Secretary.
Sam Grego, has served as Vice President 
of the Hill Dorms since September 1976. 
Looking forward to the year ahead, the 
new president said, “We’d like to continue 
providing services such as pool tables, tele­
visions, typewritiers and movies as we have 
in the past and also move in new directions 
to provide additional activities.
“I wish the administration would listen 
to student opinion as much as they say 
they do,’’said Grego. “But I hope to be 
* able to work successfully with them during
the coming year.”
Delegating more authority to fellow 
officers is one of Grego’s top priorities. 
This, he hopes, will make them more effec­
tive. “The real work is done by the com­
mittees. Without representatives and indiv­
idual dorm residents who are willing to 
help, SDC is powerless.”
SDC has been running on a tight budget 
this year. When questioned about this 
Grego said,“I would like to look into the 
question of increasing the dorm activities 
fee. Presently the fee is S4 per semester. 
This idea is not a popular one, but opera­
ting costs have risen trer iendously. Any in­
crease in the fee would not be significant 
to an individual student.But the additional 
money, used effectively, could bring about 
general improvement in dorm life.”
The increased budget would be used to 
improve, among other things, in-dorm 
dances and parties. “Social events on this 
campus my freshman year were scarce. I 
think SDC has made great progress socially 
in the past year.”
“We don’t want to turn Carnegie-Mellon 
into a party school. It’s not now and never 
will be. I have found that most students do 
want more alternatives socially.”
There are still several openings on 
Council for representatives especially from 
Morewood Gardens. Grego is a junior in 
Social Relations and urges anyone with an 
interest in SDC to contact him through the 
SDC mailbox at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
Sam Grego, new SDC
Activities Fee Increase Possible
by Gary R. Fabian
The Student Activities fee may be going 
up next semester according to Elliot Popo- 
witz, Chairperson of Student Senate. He 
said it is getting more and more difficult 
to fund Activities since the Activities Fee 
has not gone up in four years. “Every club 
expects a cost of living increase,” Popowitz 
explained, “but we can not afford to give 
it to them.”
The increase, however, is not exclusive­
ly in the hands of Senate. According to 
Popowitz, “It (the Activities Fee) is sepa­
rate as a bill on the University’s accounting 
sheet.” Approval for the increase must 
come from the Board of Trustees. Senate 
is responsible for its budget and budget 
changes. The University can not recom­
mend changes to the Board; only Senate 
can request the change.
Popowitz said that it is necessary for 
the students to be aware of how much the 
money is really needed, “After all they are 
the ones who have to pay.” The Senate has 
therefore decided to hold a referendum 
along with elections this March. Also Popo­
witz explained the referendum will not be 
binding because Senate wishes to retain the 
final judgement on the matter.
Popowitz continued saying that the re­
ferendum will have basically two parts.The 
first will ask which of the following meth­
ods of increase is preferred (if there is an 
increase): either one fifteen dollar increase 
effective next semester or five dollars every 
two years indefinitely, that is Senate will 
decide when to terminate the series. The 
second asking whether or not the students 
want an increase in the Activities Fee. Ac­
cording to Popowitz, the fifteen dollar in­
crease may be the better choice. Senate 
could then curb against inflation by mak­
ing capital expenditures with early budget­
ing surpluses. These improvements, such as 
lights for Scotch and Soda, would elimi­
nate annual rental fees of thousands of 
dollars. However, Popowitz explained “the 
five dollar increase will be easier (for the 
students) to swallow.” “The Student Activ­
ities Fee,” Popowitz said,” is here to pro­
vide students with something they can’t get 
elsewhere. There is no way around it—to 
do a better job we need more money.”
In an effort to increase voter turnout 
Student Senate has made a decision to 
move the election polls from locations of 
the recent past (academic buildings) to new 
locations. The upcoming elections will uti­
lize polls located mainly in resident halls. 
There will be a poll set up to accommodate 
the hill dorms and other residents of Mar­
garet Morrison Street, another in More­
wood will accommodate Morewood , and 
Mudge residents and all other students (i.e., 
commuters, Shirley Apartment residents, 
fraternities, etc. ) will be serviced by one 
poll in Skibo.
EE
by Eric Petersen
The faculty of the Department of Elec­
trical Engineering will have five new profes­
sors next year, according to the head of the 
department, Dr. Angel G. Jordan. These 
five people will fill the vacated positions 
of either professors on leaves of absences 
or those who are moving to other jobs.
The Department of Electrical Engi­
neering has the largest faculty of any de­
partment on campus, but five open posi­
tions represent a sizable fraction of that 
faculty.
When asked why one-fifth of the faculty 
had departed, Jordan stated that this was a 
case of simple turnover within the depart­
ment; every year about two faculty mem­
bers leave to accept job offers or to take 
leaves of absence. This year was just a 
little unusual in that more professors than 
is normal accepted other positions.
Jordan went on to say that the depart­
ment is taking advantage of the situation 
to strengthen the faculty. Attempts are 
being made to acquire a top man from in­
dustry and a top professor from another 
university. Due to the fact that these two 
most certainly have top jobs in their 
fields at the present they will in all pro­
bability be offered full professorships and 
tenure. This is necessary in order to attract 
people of this caliber, says Jordan.
The remaining three vacant positions in 
the faculty are to be filled by recent PhD 
recipients. The net result of this year’s 
turnover, then, should be an improvement 
in the Electrical Engineering department,
The great concern for large student 
turnout at the polls brought about much 
consideration and some debate of Senate 
concerning the location of polls. The aver­
age voter turnout in the recent past has 
been about 15%. It is hoped that initi­
ation of these different poll locations will 
spark some new interest and increase de­
sire to^ vote in these important elections. 
Using this innovation and by increasing 
awareness and attempting to make the vot­
ing polls most readily accessible to all po­
tential voters, Senate hopes to increase 
the voter turnout.
which is already one of the finest in the 
country.
This department indeed occupies an en­
viable position in higher education today. 
Periodic rankings place it consistently in 
the top eight Electrical Engineering depart­
ments nationally and, according to Jordan, 
it is moving steadily higher. The forth­
coming faculty additions will not only help 
to sustain this position, but also to improve 
it, thus assuring the continuity of the edu­
cational philosophy of the department, to 
educate students so that they are able to 
assume top positions in industry, govern­
ment, and other areas.
Student Input in 
Promotions Proposed
by Joan Konkle 
A proposal was passed that would allow 
students to be involved in faculty promo­
tions at the February 16 meeting of the 
February 16 meeting of the Student Senate 
Academic Affairs Committee. If the pro­
posal is approved, students would take part 
in tenure decisions and approving advances 
at assistant, associate and full professor­
ships.
The proposal contains the following three 
recommendations:
1.) Evaluation forms should be avail­
able to students who have been taught by 
faculty members up for promotion or 
tenure. The forms should be confidential, 
and include questions selected by the de­
partment and space for students to make 
their own comments.
2.) At least three students of differing 
opinion should appear before the de­
partmental promotions committee. The 
evaluation form should allow students to 
give their names and addresses so that 
they may be selected as one of these 
students.
3.) Information about promotions 
should be announced in the TARTAN, 
put on department bulletin boards, and 
made known in any other way possible. 
The day after it was passed Dr. Cyert 
read the proposal and recommended
continued on page 8
David Roussos, "There doesn't seem to be a formal
method of student input in promotions,"
Angel Jordan, Head of the Electrical Engineering 
Department
Hiring 5 Professors

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
A Lack of Purpose
At least in name, the free press in America has gained a 
patriotic symbolism almost equal to the flag and mother­
hood. However, in spite of the recent agrandizement of jour­
nalism and the popularity of investigative reporting, the free 
press is really in pretty feeble condition. Unlike in many 
nations, where there is censorship of all news accounts, the 
biggest threat to the press comes not from government but 
from the press itself.
It appears that the press and its audience is losing sight of 
the purpose of the news media. Instead of emphasizing issues 
of importance and substance, there has long been a trend to 
play up the trivial but sensational stories such as the recent 
Gary Gilmore episode. A major part of the problem is that 
the news industry does not set high standards for itself. In­
stead of being concerned with quality journalism, the indus­
try is much more interested in presenting what sells. The re­
cent fuss of Barbara Walters is a good example. When millions 
of dollars are paid for a newscaster who needs elocution les­
sons, the result is a cheapening of journalism. The current 
state of affairs where there are fewer newspapers than there 
are radio and television stations illustrates just how little im­
portance is placed on real news reporting. Out of this arises 
quite a few misconceptions about news reporting.
There is a certain tendency to forget that the news media 
are not infallible, making them the final arbiters of truth. In 
news reporting there are two conflicting goals, accuracy and 
timeliness. It is desirable to report news as quickly as possi­
ble, the inherent danger being that the facts as reported may 
be wrong. On the other hand, to be sure of accuracy may 
take a considerable amount of time, often years. A good 
illustration is the recent explosion at the University of Pitts­
burgh. Initial news reports had hundreds of people killed in 
an explosion caused by a wide variety of unusual chemicals. 
Now, several weeks after the incident, it appears unlikely that 
the true cause of the explosion will ever be unequivocally 
determined. The reader or viewer of news should always 
keep in mind the tradeoffs that are made between accuracy 
and timeliness. This can be considered the journalistic ana­
logue of the Heisenburg Uncertainty Principle of Physics.
Another problem arises out of the quality of news events 
available. There are some weeks when there doesn’t seem to 
be any news on campus worth reporting, but because adver­
tising has been sold we feel obligated to publish. While much 
of the time it is our own fault for not finding newsworthy 
items, it is discomforting to think about how many issues we 
would actually put out if we only published when there was 
news of substance to report. The professional news industry 
often appears to have the same problem. Many days there 
seems to be a lack of news of any substance, but because space 
has been bought for the weekly grocery specials, out comes a 
news product filled with just about anything. As a result, we 
have the likes of Gary Gilmore spewed at us.
Probably because of the low quality of journalism available, 
there exist, both on this campus and in the real world, some 
serious misconceptions about the nature and function of the 
news media. Administrators, faculty and students alike be­
lieve that the TARTAN is a vehicle in which to exercise their 
perogatives. News has become something to manipulate in 
order to gain favorable publicity. A favorite example is the 
case where, after an unfavorable story in the TARTAN, an ad­
ministrator irately demanded that a retraction be printed in 
order to correct damage done by the story. The complaint 
was investigated, with the result of one of the main sources 
in the story writing a letter to the editor clarifying some of 
the statements attributed to him. While the administrator was 
adament about contacting this person, the letter that was 
written contained criticism that was even more unfavorable 
than the original article. The inaccuracy in the article appear­
ing to have been toning down the criticism presented. Un- 
fortunatly, cases like this are not that unusual.
We are, however, thankful that President Cyert himself 
maintains a policy of non-interference with the TARTAN. 
While occasionally things we print may be be embarrasing for 
the administration, or just plain wrong, we are glad that is 
recognized that to maintain intellectual integrity on this 
campus requires an outlet where people are free to express 
themselves without restraint.
Charles Mitch 
Editor
1 77
Letters
Dillon Responds
Editor:
I wish to respond to the “Con­
cerned Commuter” letter in last 
week’s TARTAN. If anyone is 
so concerned why not stand up 
and be counted?
I personally believe that the 
present program of increasingly 
severe penalties for parking viola­
tions is better than the approach 
which other schools and institu­
tions use of immediate towing for 
every offense.
I further personally believe 
based on contacts with many 
municipal and institutional police 
forces that our Security Depart­
ment is among the finest in the 
country.
But most important, I believe 
that each of us should be willing 
to identify ourselves when we 
speak out on an issue so that 
others who agree or disagree with 
us can let us know. I welcome 
cc^ments regarding parking 
xeiuPUo^ iues and promise to con­
sider each on its merits.
William L. Dillon 
Chairman, Parking Committee
No Desire to Hike
Editor:
If I don’t want to go on the 
housing or tuition hikes, can I get 
my fifty and seventy-five dollars 
back?
Bob Harris
Vehement Opposition
Editor:
I wish to express my vehement 
opposition to the Boltzman 
Distribution Law. To state that 
N2Feb = -exp(E2 - Ej/RT) is 
cleary discriminatory. Such 
Blatant elitism must not be 
tolerated.
J.W. Gibbs
Doctor Elliott, I Presume?
Editor:
I would like to remind you of 
the “accidental” increase in size 
of the Architecture class several 
years back, and promises of “it 
(overcrowding) will never hap­
pen again.” Well, it has. In fact, 
departments are starting to feel 
that they must be ready to stand 
their ground against the admin­
istration, to defend the size of 
their student bodies.
Why does the Admissions of­
fice exceed the requested num­
ber of students that each depart­
ment sets? Is the University so 
afraid of losing out on available 
tuition money that it will accept 
the academic crunch that “black 
ink” provides? Or, could it be, 
that Warner Hall’s middle man­
agement is overly afraid of dis­
pleasing Dr. Cyert and his mone­
tary goals? Ask yourselves, is 
that what the President or the 
community really wants?
Elliot Popowitz
TARTAN
Volume 77February 22, 1977Number 18
Editor in Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Charles Mitch 
Jim Harper 
Joe Loughran 
Joan Konkle 
Randell Hunt 
David Roussos 
Tom Binnie 
Elliot Popowitz
Assistant News Editor: Eric Petersen 
Editorial Assistant: C.R. Childs
Production Assistants: Claudia Clay, Carol Dieter, Clare Nadorlik
Staff Photographers: Michael Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, V.R,V, Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo50, (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412 ) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

VIEWSThe Way CMU Treats The Liberal Arts
As a transfer student from Du- 
quesne University, I have had 
some definite ideas since I arrived 
here on the way Carnegie-Mellon 
University treats the. Liberal Arts.
I am pleased to discover that the 
recent Middle States Association 
Evaluating Team agreed with me 
on many of my points.
I attended Duquesne last year, 
and took a good deal of courses in 
the area known as “The Humani­
ties”. (For all of you technical 
wizards who wouldn’t know Plato 
from a computer terminal, The 
Humanities consist largely of 
courses “non-functional” in the 
economic world today, but invalu­
able as far as developing the 
human race itself. It includes such 
subjects as philosophy, history, 
the classics, theology, psychology, 
English, etc.) Duquesne places a 
great emphasis on its Liberal Arts 
College, and so I learned a lot 
from the courses I took there. 
When I arrived at CMU, though, I 
was alarmed at the contemptu­
ous manner with which CMU 
treated this area.
First of all, there is a definite 
lack of the courses themselves. 
Oh, I’m sure all of you engineers 
will point out that CMU has cour­
ses in most of the areas I listed 
above. But, to put many of these 
courses under the heading of 
“Humanities” would make Fyo­
dor Dostoevsky embrace B.F. 
Skinner. There are just too many
quantitative courses in these- ‘de­
partments to classify the college:' 
as “Liberal Arts”.
My main concern, though,,.'iv 
that this problem is noCbnljr 
ignored, but encouraged;v.;Th*e;: 
rigid requirements in CFT; .MIS/ 
and AMS make a complete educa­
tional experience impossibly 
if the courses were available-i ’Asr 
long as the “hard-working” : 
students learn to punch tbeii^citl'-. 
culators like good little ro]bots; 
companies couldn’t care l^s 'if 
they learn anything of use . jn 
their everyday lives. This Vis the' 
crux of the problem. In hi^/rtfpiy 
to the Middle States Association-’s 
charges, President Cyert I'epfied 
that CMU did not desire a normal 
College of Liberal Arts, but a.pro­
fessionally-oriented one to com­
bine education and vocational 
training. In other words, Liberal 
Arts would be bent to conform 
with the rest of the University.
Granted, this will make stu­
dents employable, and will fit in 
well with the rest of the quanti- 
tized university. Nobody can take 
away CMU’s success in this area, 
and I gladly laud them for it. But. 
And this is a big but. But, it is 
too narrow an approach to educa­
tion. It makes CMU into nothing 
more than a vocational school, 
not a university. A university 
should comprise a large, broad 
range of topics and ideas, and 
make them available to the stu­
dents so that they can obtain 
the broadest educational experi­
ence possible. A university should 
be. n*. re than a place to learn 
skills for a certain job. That is a 
definition, for a trade school. A 
nriiversity should provide educa­
tion not only for a job, but also 
an 'oppotfunity for the individual 
himself to grow emotionally and 
Spiritually; Every problem in life 
cannot be solved by some equa­
tion out of a book.
‘ .College should be more than 
job training. It should be a 
growing experience. But as long 
as CMU ignores the most impor­
tant area of education for the 
growth of the person itself, it 
will continue to sell short not 
only itself, but also the students.
Just so you enlightened engi­
neers don’t think I am some 
deranged maniac babbling strange 
oaths, let me quote the recent 
report on CMU by the Middle 
States Association.
“At no place is the univer­
sity’s compartmentalization of 
knowledge more evident than in 
its dealings with the School of 
Humanities and Social Sciences. 
The current situation is one of 
considerable disarray. The social 
sciences are like amiable fungi, 
they grow where they land. And 
they have landed all over campus. 
The humanities, very few of them 
and deprived of fine arts, huddle 
in considerable confusion under
an institutional title which bears 
little relation to the reality it 
pretends to describe.
In the opinion of the team, 
Carnegie-Mellon should address 
this range of problems for a set of 
reasons, most of them serious. 
Titles that don’t conform to 
reality are demoralizing, and the 
Humanities department are well 
along the road to demoralization. 
Were all the humanities and social 
sciences united, the result of the 
whole would be far greater than 
the sum of its parts. This is usu­
ally called a “liberal arts college’7 
and the team could not but help 
think that Carnegie-Mellon suffers 
by not having one.
Were there a liberal arts college 
on campus it would bring the 
following strengths with it. It 
could provide a staging ground 
for students when their goal 
orientation is unclear or slips. 
While accurate statistics are 
unavailable, the team had the 
impression that CMU’s attrition 
rate is high, and one of the major 
sources of attrition is that very 
few of the professional colleges 
allow for any student indecision.
A liberal arts college could 
provide the theoretic base to 
buttress the College of Fine 
Arts in its efforts to be the cul­
tural center of the university. It 
might also be a healthy counter to 
the quantitative accent associated 
with so many of the professional
Crecine on the Middle States Report
I would like to comment on 
the portion of the Commission on 
Higher Education of the Middle 
States Association report (Febru­
ary 8 issue of the TARTAN) 
dealing with the College of Huma­
nities and Social Sciences.
The Middle States Association 
report suggests that what Carne­
gie-Mellon needs is a “real” liberal 
arts college, especially to help the 
University provide “education in 
value and citizenship”. I agree 
with the Middle States panel in 
their assessment that we do not 
now have a liberal arts college at 
CMU. The panel’s position that 
we need a liberal arts college 
seems to stem more from the 
panel’s background than from any 
careful evaluation of the needs of 
undergraduate education at Carne­
gie-Mellon. The Middle States 
panel members come from univer­
sities with traditional liberal arts 
colleges, and, from the report, it 
seems they anticipated finding a 
similar situation at CMU and were 
disappointed when they did not.
It is no secret that traditional 
liberal arts programs and colleges 
represent the most serious prob­
lem area in institutions of higher 
education, nationally. Although 
there are positive reasons for 
wanting to develop educational 
programs in the College of Huma­
nities and Social Sciences that do 
not fit the traditional liberal arts 
mold, avoiding the sort of prob­
lems associated with existing libe­
ral arts programs is reason enough 
for not following the Middle 
States panel’s advice.
Educationally H&SS has two 
sets of related objectives at the 
undergraduate level; one set
relates to the educational needs 
of the entire student body and the 
second relates to the needs of 
H&SS students. For the Univer- 
sity-wide student body H&SS’ 
principal objective is to provide an 
effective liberalizing force in the 
professional and technical pro­
grams offered elsewhere at CMU.
1 doubt that anyone would dis­
agree with the Middle States 
panel’s observation that a liberal 
education is an essential part of 
the concept of a university edu­
cation. It does not follow that a 
traditional liberal arts college is 
the appropriate organizational 
form for providing a liberal edu­
cation. Indeed, if the precarious 
nature of liberal arts programs 
nationally is any indication, that 
organizational form is not even 
appropriate for providing a truly 
liberal educational experience for 
liberal arts majors — most end up
taking either a pot pouri of 
courses from a variety of fields 
or specialize excessively in one of 
the traditional liberal arts disci­
plines.
For both our own students and 
for undergraduates outside of 
H&SS we aspire to something not 
really possible in liberal arts 
colleges today, a coherent and 
interdisciplinary program of study 
that provides the intellectual 
foundations for traditional con­
centrations in the humanities, 
social and behavioral sciences as 
well as for professional concentra­
tions in a variety of areas. Tra­
ditional liberal arts programs, 
organized as they are as a collec­
tion of strong disciplines with 
no collegiate or multi-disciplinary 
perspective, simply contain too 
many rigidities and vested inte­
rests to be either very adaptive to 
changes in knowledge and me­
thods across fields or to the needs 
of students. We currently have the 
flexibility to rethink what it is we 
are doing educationally and to 
adapt quickly if that seems appro­
priate. This is a distinctive fea­
ture of Carnegie-Mellon and one 
which should be preserved.
The Middle States panel also 
commented that “(a)t no place is 
the university’s compartmentali­
zation of knowledge more evident 
than in its dealings with the 
School (sic) of Humanities and 
Social Sciences.” While there is 
always room for improvement, I 
find it hard to understand how a 
College that does more than half 
of its teaching for students out­
side of the College — CIT, MIS, 
CFA and A&MS — could be des­
cribed as compartmentalized from 
the rest of the University. If the 
A Phi O ratings have any value 
continued on page four
TARTAN EDITORIAL BOARD ELECTIONS
On March 9 in room 11 Skibo, the TARTAN will hold elections for the 
following positions :
Editor in Chief 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Candidates for Editor in Chief must be members of the TARTAN staff. All other Editorial positions 
are open to any CMU student. A member of the TARTAN staff is any one who has written two ar­
ticles in the last four issues of the TARTAN, or anyone whose name is listed in the masthead. All 
members of the TARTAN staff are eligible to vote.
Those interested should inquire at the TARTAN office. Skibo 52.
schools. This is not to say that 
the accent is in any way illegiti-. 
mate, but its dominance can be 
stifling and for some students 
deadly. A liberal arts college 
would address at least the 
possibility of an alternate stance. 
Finally, the liberal arts college 
could share with the president his 
role as gadfly about value and 
citizenship, a role which is so 
important in a highly 
professionalized university. It 
would be his logical ally in 
working towards Whitehead’s 
dream of a university engaged 
principally in the making of 
Citizens.”
Not to sell anyone short, let 
me reiterate President Cyert’s re­
ply to these charges.
“While agreeing with the 
general thrust of the team’s com­
ments about liberal arts at Came- 
gie-Mellon University, we wish to 
point out that we do not want to 
have a traditional liberal arts 
college here. We believe we are in 
a position to create a unique, 
liberal-professional educational 
program in H&SS, building on a 
broadly-based set of fundamental 
skills and perspectives in the 
humanities and social sciences and 
leading either to traditional liberal 
arts majors, professional concen­
trations, or more appropriately, 
some combination of the two. 
Finally, we do not see the huma­
nities and social sciences at Car­
negie-Mellon University as a coun­
ter to the quantitative accent of 
the professional schools or to the 
studio orientation of fine arts. 
Within H&SS’ we see quantitative 
skills as being an essential to a well 
educated person today as is a 
command of the written and spo­
ken word. We see the humanities 
and social sciences as augmenting 
and broadening professional 
education and providing a larger 
perspective for it, not simply as 
a counter to it.”
Once again, the university 
attempts to narrow down the hu­
manities into a vocational area, 
not giving it its necessary free­
dom. The problem with a com­
bination of professional and edu­
cational courses is that you have 
too much of both and not enough 
of either. True liberal arts can 
never give anything if it is sha­
ckled to a vocational program. 
The real value of liberal arts is 
being entirely missed by the ad­
ministration. It is not meant to 
train for a job. It is an “art", an 
educational experience for the 
student so that he can grow as a 
person, as well as a cog in the eco­
nomy. College should be more 
than vocational training. It is a 
total growing experience. And as 
long as the university continues 
to ignore part of this educational 
experience, the lessons learned at 
CMU will continue to be narrow 
and of limited use. It will conti­
nue to contribute to the problems 
facing our society today, caused 
by over-industrialization and an 
absence of morality and spiritu­
ality. As long as universities con­
tinue to ignore half of the human 
learning experience, our society 
will continue to reflect half of 
humanity.
Philip Burda

---------------------------------------------------

View From The Top
One of the important charac­
teristics of any organization that 
survives over a long period of time 
is adaptability. The need for this 
characteristic in universities is no 
less than for other types of organi­
zations. Society determines how 
resources will be allocated to ed­
ucation and society’s preferences 
changes from time to time.
There was a period in the 
1960’s when many research-or- 
ented universities regarded the un­
dergraduate students as a bother. 
There were two basic reasons for 
this position. First, there were a 
tremendous number of students 
who wanted to go to college and 
almost every college, no matter 
how poor in quality, had an ex­
cess number of students applying. 
It was a time when there was a 
high proportion of 17 to 21 year 
olds in our population and a time
when educational facilities had 
not yet expanded to meet the de­
mand. It was also a period when 
our society was beginning to 
adopt the position that everyone 
should go to college. The second 
basic reason was that the federal 
government was providing large 
amounts of research money to 
universities. Thus, a research-ori- 
ented university had grant money 
to pay many of its faculty, at 
least partially, and research tend­
ed to take precedence over ed­
ucation as a goal of many univer­
sities.
These conditions fostered the 
belief that the road to greatness 
for a university was to substitute 
graduate students for undergradu­
ates. The Federal government 
made it possible for universities to 
afford graduate education through 
programs offering fellowships and
traineeships for graduate students. 
A few good schools at this time 
began to reduce the number of 
undergraduates and increase the 
number of graduate students. The 
ambience was such that many be­
lieved ."hat a university that did 
not have at least as many graduate 
students as undergraduates could 
not be a mojor university. Doctor­
al programs in almost every sub­
ject were developed and frequent­
ly in institutuins that had no real 
capacity to provide graduate work 
in the subject. Having such pro­
grams, however, was believed to 
be the mark of excellence.
Now society’s allocation of re­
sources has changed dramatically. 
The change was brought home to 
me recently when the dean of 
Harvard could not survive in the 
long run unless it provided a su­
perior undergraduate education.
Carnegie-Mellon University
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
To: All Dormitory Residents:
From: Dean Charles V. Williams
Date: February 4, 1977
Subject: Lounge Furniture
During this current academic year, furniture has been removed
from the dormitory lounges including chairs, sofas, tables, lamps and 
pillows. In some dormitory facilities the lounges are completely empty, 
depriving students of a social and recreational area. Some of this furni­
ture has been found in private use in dormitory rooms.
As a result of this growing trend,I wish to call to your attention 
offense aand and accompanying penalty that is included in the n
Disciplinary Code:
Offense:
Penalty :
Removal of lounge furniture or other University proper­
ty or facilities for private use.
“Restoration to assigned use, costs of restoration and a 
fine of not less than $50.00 but not to exceed $100.00.”
Students who have been found in violation of this offense have been in­
formed of the penalty and have been requested to return the lounge 
furniture. You cooperation in solving this problem will be appreciated 
and will benefit all dormitory residents.
This point is one that I have fre­
quently made in the last five years 
to our faculty about CMU.
More and more colleges and 
universities are recognizing that 
the decisions of undergraduates as 
to which college to attend are go­
ing to determine which colleges 
and universities survive. As a re­
sult universities are adapting. 
There is a recognition of the im­
portance of good undergraduate 
education. Philosophically, we are 
back to the position of recogniz­
ing that our society cannot func­
tion effectively without a large 
number of properly educated citi­
zens.
None of this article should be 
interpreted as indicating that I 
want to double the size of Car­
negie-Mellon’s undergraduate 
student body and to eliminate all 
graduate students. We are in quite
Carnegie-Mellon University
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
To: Dean Charles V. Williams
From: All Dormitory Residents
Date: February 22, 1977
Subject: Lounges
During this current academic year, lounges have completely disappeared 
from the dorms. In some dorms, there are absolutely no lounges, 
depriving students of a social and recreational area. Some of these 
lounges have been found being used for pure monetary purposes.
As a result of this growing trend we wish to call to your attention an 
offense and an accompanying penalty that should be included in the 
new Disciplinary Code:
Offense:
“Removal of lounges or other University property or 
facilities for monetary use.”
Penalty:
“Restoration of assigned area, costs of restoration and 
rebuilding, and a fine of not less than fifty angry people, but not to 
exceed six thousand angry people.”
Anyone who has been found in violation of this offense has been in­
formed of the penalty and has been requested to return the lounges. 
Your cooperation in solving this problem will be appreciated and will 
benefit all dormitory residents.
good balance, about 3400 under­
graduate and about 1,000 gradu­
ate students. In fact we should 
prob My increase the number of 
our graduate students. What I am 
saying is that the world has 
changed. We now understand that 
universities do not become great 
by becoming primarily graduate 
institutions. A strong undergradu­
ate student body is crucial to the 
long-run survival of every univer­
sity (Cal Tech may be the one 
exception). Good universities have 
two major goals, education and re­
search. Research has not decreas­
ed in importance but, rather, good 
teaching and the good teacher 
have increased in importance. For­
tunately the traditions of Carne­
gie-Mellon have always emphasiz­
ed good teaching as an important 
characteristic of a good faculty 
member, and we have not had to 
make drastic changes to adapt to 
society’s new demands.
Even though the importance of 
the undergraduate is again being 
recognized, it should still be un­
derstood that the faculty is re­
sponsible for the teaching and the 
president is responsible for the 
overall academic and non-academ­
ic health of the institution. Deci­
sions on curriculum must be made 
by professional educators using 
the criterion of what is best for 
the student in the long run. As 
we follow such a path Carnegie- 
Mellon will remain a popular 
choice for the serious, capable 
student who seeks professional 
education or a liberal-professional 
education at the undergraduate 
level. We believe there will always 
be an ample supply of such stud­
ents. Thus we see no need to offer 
education that is not the best we 
are capable of offering. We will 
not compromise nor cater to fads 
but we will give much attention to 
improving curricula and teaching. 
We will take these actions without 
reducing our resolve to make ma­
jor contributions to the discovery 
of new knowledge. The desire to 
achieve excellence in both educa­
tion and research may explain 
why the seven- day work week is 
so popular at CMU.
Richard M. Cyert
continued from page three 
whatsoever, it is evident that stu­
dents from outside H&SS appreci­
ate our contribution to the liberal 
aspects of their education.
The panel also made oblique 
references to the humanities “very 
few of them and deprived of fine 
arts, huddle(d) in considerable 
confusion...” Our humanities 
faculty in History and English 
compare very favorably with 
those found in the universi­
ties from which the Middle States 
panel members originate, thank 
you. The Departments of English 
and History and Philosophy are 
among the three largest depart­
ments at CMU and I have not ob­
served anything that could be 
described as “huddling”. We also 
do not see ourselves as “deprived 
of the fine arts”, given CFA’s 
emphasis on the practice of the 
fine arts rather than the academic 
study of them.
The Middle States panel chose
Crecine on the Middle States Report
to ignore what we are doing to 
improve the program for H&SS 
students. We are well along in the 
development of what I think will 
prove to be a major alternative 
to the traditional liberal arts 
college in American higher edu­
cation, a liberal-professional edu­
cational program. Such an ap­
proach recognizes both the value 
of establishing a broadly-based, 
liberal intellectual foundation and 
the value of providing a profes­
sional focus for many of the tra­
ditional humanities and social 
science disciplines. Ey not being a 
traditional liberal arts college, 
H&SS does not have the institu­
tional rigidity associated with 
such colleges. The College began 
quietly last year to re-examine 
its undergraduate programs and, 
aided by a grant from the Buhl 
Foundation, to develop a core 
curriculum for the entire College. 
Under Associate Dean Lee Gregg’s 
leadership, we have had weekly
seminars and meetings on the core 
curriculum. We are converging on 
a common core curriculum that is 
intellectually demanding and
exciting, one that spans the 
humanities, behavioral and social 
sciences and one that provides for 
literacy both in things written and 
numeric. These faculty and
student discussions have involved, 
at one time or another, most of 
the faculty of the College and 
faculty from SUPA, GSIA and 
CIT. We have had ample 
opportunity to compare our
efforts and progress with those of 
several other universities. Without 
fear of contradiction, the 
emerging H&SS core curriculum is 
far better than anything else we 
have seen in the idea stage — 
indeeed, the typical new core
“curriculum” seems to be “pick 8 
courses from this random list of 
64” - and ours has a much better 
chance of being implemented. The 
proof of these contentions comes
in the next couple of years. The 
main point, however, is that if 
H&SS were simply a traditional 
liberal arts college we would not 
be in the position of being able to 
innovate and respond quickly to 
opportunities. We would not be 
able to so completely rethink the 
notion of liberal education and 
what it means in 1977.
The Middle States team did 
make one observation that was 
accurate and relevant, however. 
It chided us for having an insuf­
ficient group of social scien­
tists in the College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences. The report 
chose to ignore the fact that a 
new Department of Social Sci­
ences has been established in the 
College, that we are authorized 
to hire 10-12 full time faculty 
for the Department over the next 
two years and are busily recruiting 
for the Department. The report 
also chose to ignore the presence 
of what may be. academically,
the strongest department in the 
University, the Psychology De­
partment.
In summary, I find the advice 
of the Middle States report for 
H&SS to be of practically no 
use and to reflect more about the 
backgrounds of the panel mem­
bers than about the situation at 
CMU. The report blissfully ig­
nored the major current strength 
of the College - Psychology - 
two extremely important devel­
opments the College’s new core 
curriculum and the Social Science 
Department — and seriously un­
der-rated both the size of the 
humanities faculty and its overall 
quality.
John P. Crecine 
Dean, H&SS
The TARTAN welcomes letters 
from its readers. All letters for 
publication must be signed. 
Names will bw withheld upon 
request.

---------------------------------------------------

¦¦ I'5'£
/• OO^et dcfoi4z,
2d '• ^.e^ZZ-TiW- 
14^ JtciWA 4jtJ>$*JlrtPractical Plethora M
of Plaudi table Polytechnic \ 
Privities Presenting Preeminen 
! Precepts *n ^4e Precognition 
\ of Preoccupations \ is here! /
ruay2 a, a1y9
'ilP77VolmN8 I flufote: EF
INMlGO?FTC£>/
check at Skibo soon, some courses limited enrollment
name _ ____
address 
course name
return to info desk, Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED AIDS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
Mark Mentzer, a member of the CMU
Design Department faculty will exhibit re­
cent paintings and drawings in the Hewlett 
Gallery in the College of Fine Arts Building 
until March 9. Gallery hours: mon-fri 9 to 
4:30.
Ascent of Man, a documentary film series
presenting the human dimension in the 
history of science, is presented every Tues­
day at 11:30 and 12:30 in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. THE STARRY MESSEN­
GER (Galileo and the heavens) will be 
shown today, Feb. 22 and THE MAJESTIC 
CLOCKWORK (Newton and Einstein) on 
March 8. There is no admission fee. Facul­
ty, students, and friends are welcome. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning.
Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes Ave­
nue, Pittsburgh, Tuesday thru Sunday: 12-
4, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday: 7-9, 
Exhibitors: Penny Wurl, Robin Green, and 
Ed Cahill will be showing printmaking, 
photography, drawings, paintings and 
jewelry.
On Wednesday, February 23, a Biological
Sciences Department office will be opened 
in room 2311 of Doherty Hall. It will be 
staffed on Monday, Wednesday and Friday 
from 11:30 a.m. until 1:00 p.m., and on 
Tuesday and Thursday from 11:30 a.m. 
until 1:30 p.m. Please stop in for informa­
tion or assistance, or, if you wish, tele­
phone on Ext. 8608.
The office is primarily for undergradu­
ate biology majors, but others taking bio­
logy courses, or interested in future courses 
are cordially welcome. Freshmen are parti­
cularly urged to stop in if they have ques­
tions concerning a biology major.
Are chemical process systems safe? Dr.
Gary Powers of the Chemical Engi­
neering Department will discuss chemi­
cal plants' hazards and safety measures 
on Thursday, Feb. 24 at 12:30 in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. The program is 
part of the THURSDAY LUNCHEON 
FORUM SERIES sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning.
All students enrolled in 82-107 Program­
med French. There will be a test day on 
Thursday, February 24, for those indi­
viduals who wish to complete their semes­
ter's work in this course ahead of schedule. 
The exam will be given in Baker Hall 235-A 
starting promptly at 10:30 a.m.
Entropy will be closed for February Break.
We will close at 6 p.m. on Friday February
25 and will reopen on Tuesday March 1st 
at 3 p.m.
In mid-March, all CIT/MIS freshmen will
be asked to declare their major depart­
ment. In order to help those who still may 
have questions, all CIT and MIS depart­
ments have planned informal meetings to 
discuss curricula, requirements, etc.
The schedule is as follows:
Biogical
CN
Civil Engineering:
es: Mon. March 7
3:30 p.m. Social Room, 
3rd Floor Mellon Institute 
leering Thurs. March 17 
30 a.m. Science Hall 1319 
jring: Wed. March 16
00 p.m. Science Hall 5427 
Wed. March 9 
0 p.m. Doherty Hall 2122 
Mon. March 14
3 30 p.m. Porter Hall 107
Electrical Engineering: Wed. March 9
3:30 p.m. Hamerschlas Hall 11 
Engineering & Public Policy: Fri. March 11 
3:30 p.m. Science Hall 5304 
Mathematics: Thurs. March 10
3:30 p.m. Science Hall 7500 
Mechanical Engineering: Mon. March 7
3:30 p.m. Scaife Hall 322 
Metallurgy & Materials Science:
Tues. March 15 
3:30 p.m. Science Hall 4327 
Physics: Tues. March 8
4:00 p.m. Science Hall 7325
There will be a special sabbath dinner on
Friday, February 25, at B'nai B'rith Hillel, 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue. There will be a 
reception at 4:30 p.m., services at 5:30 
p.m., dinner at 6:30 p.m. At 8 p.m. Myrna 
Pollack, outreach worker with the Jewish 
Family & Children Service, will speak on 
"Perspectives on Inter-Marriage — religious 
and psycho-dynamic”. Please call 621- 
8875 by Wednesday for reservations.
On Saturday, Feb. 26, at 9 p.m. there will
be an, Israeli Nightclub, sponsored by Cam­
pus Campaign for Israel & World Jewry, in 
the Lower Lounge of the Pitt Student 
Union.
On Monday, Feb. 28, at 8 p.m. B'nai
B'rith Hillel will show a movie, "Rebel 
Without a Cause", starring James Dean and 
Natalie Wood, at the Pitt Graduate School 
of Public Health Auditorium.
Student Senate is looking for leaders. Are
you interested in working on THISTLE, 
the Activities Fair, or the Student Govern­
ment Fund (Programming Fund) at any 
level of involvement? If so, please con­
tact Elliot Popowitz at ext. 8800 or by 
leaving a message at the Skibo Informa­
tion Desk.
Piano Recital. Linda Krysinski, Mickey
McAfie, and Sherry Siegel will be perfor­
ming works by Bach, Chopin, Debussy, 
Mendelssohn, and Bartok on Saturday, 
March 5 at 3:00 p.m. Alumni Concert 
Hall, College of Fine Arts. Free. All 
invited.
Vegetarian or Organic Food eating/living
cooperative for next year. People inter­
ested in forming one contact Chris at 
687-6424 evenings.
Ethics and Business: What Ethical
Norms are Encouraged by the Present 
Structure of American Business Enter­
prises? This topic will be discussed by 
members of the Pittsburgh university, 
business and religious communities on 
Tuesday, March 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. Program is 
sponsored by Campus Program Plan­
ning.
During Lent, services of Holy Communion
will be held each Thursday evening at 
10:00 p.m. These services are part of the 
Episcopal ministry at CMU. All persons are 
invited to join in "The Great Thanks­
giving."
Rabbi James Rudin will talk on "The Stu­
dent Confronts Reverend Moon and the 
Occult'' on Tuesday, February 22, at 7:45 
p.m., David Lawrence Hall, Room 12- 
121.
There will be Israeli Dancing on Thursday,
February 24, at 7:30 p.m. in the B'nai 
B'rith Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 315 South 
Bellefield.
Auditions for McKeesport Little Theater's
production of the musical ''Where's Char­
ley" will be held Sunday, February 27, 
at 2:00 p.m. and Monday, February 28, at
8:00 p.m. at the theater at the corner of 
Coursin and Bailey Avenues in McKees­
port.
Performances for this production are 
scheduled on Friday, Saturday and Sunday 
from April 22 thru May 15.
Persons wishing to audition are asked to 
bring their own music if possible.
Director for this show is David Bird.
The Office of Education has reported
March 15 as the closing date for the Basic 
Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) 
applications for the 1976-77 academic 
year.
Applications for the grant are available 
at the Financial Aid Office. Students who 
have not yet applied for the Basic Educa­
tional Opportunity Grant for the 76-77
academic year are advised to do so before 
March 15, 1977.
If you'd like to share your college experi­
ence with a prospective freshman on 
April 17, 18 or April 24, 25 volunteer to 
be a sleeping bag host. You will soon be 
receiving a card via campus mail or may 
volunteer in person by stopping in at 
Warner Hall, first floor. This promises to 
be a rewarding and enjoyable time for you.
Will Beverly in the brown and yellow late
model station wagon, who hit my car in 
Dormont (at the corner of Park Blvd. & 
Dell) on Feb. 15 at 7:30 a.m., please call 
me anytime at 531-8258. Roger McGill, 
1105 Sunrise Drive, Pgh. 15243.
classified
Student-Parent Helper. Room & Board in
exchange for babysitting 3 children (8-11). 
Separate room, bathroom, TV. Squirrel 
Hill near bus routes. Must be good with 
kids. Extras possible dependent upon 
degree of responsibility assumed. Call 
232-0584, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Haulers needed to move 3 pieces of furni­
ture. Call 687-5624.
Dear Jeffrey,
Happy 19th Birthday.
Love, Thrine
EUROPE via PanAm 707 for Less than 'A
economy fare. Call toll free (6-9 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent 
60-day advance payment required. Uni- 
Travel Charters
1975 Corvette, Silver Coup with Black Lea­
ther Interior — Perfect Condition — 8000 
miles, asking $8,000. 882-9566 or
276-6309.
Summer Jobs: Fifty State catalogue of
over 2000 summer job employers (with 
application forms). Send $2 to: SUM- 
CHOICE, Box 645, State College, Pa. 
16801
The CMU Science Fiction Club meets every
Sunday in Room 11, Skibo. New members 
are always welcome.
Typing thesis. Dissertations, Term Papers,
etc. Ask about free copying service. Call 
Janice 421-6483.
Air Only 
CHARTERS to
London, .
Paris, $279
Amsterdam 
and Madrid
From Maw York, Boston, Phiaddphk 
ft Washington
FROM ONLY
PER PERSON
Hawaii
FROM ONLY$299
WEEKLY DEPARTURES DIRECT 
FROM PITTSBURGH
FOR INFORMATION 
CALL 
621-0799
LEARN TO BE A SALES ENGINEER 
FOR HONEYWELL IN PITTSBURGH.
We’ll train you to sell 
analog/digital control systems 
to the process industry. . .
Sales Engineering is the leading edge of any technologically-oriented corporation Your engineering degree 
will be invaluable as you wisit client firms study plans for new production lines or modifications to 
existing operations, and make an expert recommendation based on our complete line of control in 
strumentation Our training will include inside sales work, our salary offer will be professional, and your 
opportunities to grow in our organization will be unlimited Investigate your opportunities in our division 
immediately we already have your position on the drawing board
FOR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION submit your resume to Harry Andrews Branch Sales^ Manager Please include 
salary expectationsHoneywell
1005 S. Bee Street/Pittsburgh. PA 15220 
We Are An Equal Opportunity Employer
For Free Brochure • Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 152U

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1977 — TARTAN — Page 7
Week in Review
The head of the Bank of Israel, Asher
Yadin, has admitted he accepted kick­
backs and that he gave the money to two 
key members of Israel’s ruling Labor Party. 
Yadin was nominated for the position be­
fore the scandal was brought out. Yadin 
~id he was pressured into illegal fund 
raising. Of the two who allegedly got the 
money, one denied charges and Parliament 
refused to listen to the other when he tried 
to answer charges.
President Carter responded to the Soviet
Government’s treatment of dissidents by 
sending a letter of support to Andrei 
Sakharov, Novel prize winning nuclear 
( physicist and outspoken proponent of 
human rights. Carter promised the 
dissident that “we shall use our good 
offices to seek the release of prisoners of 
conscience.” The letter, pledging the 
United States to the cause of freedom 
everywhere, was sent over Soviet warnings 
that defenders of dissidents are enemies 
of detente.
The Selectmen of Martha’s Vineyard, a
Massachusetts resort island, voted to 
secede from the state when a redistricting 
plan denied them their legislative repre­
sentation. They also considered seceding 
from the nation and requesting foreign aid 
from President Carter. The legal impli­
cations of their actions remains unclear.
by Wendolf Dolson
and Debbie Rosenkrantz
Financial Columnist: Mike Davis
Wall Street Journal courtesy of Antony Rezek.
UPI Wire Service courtesy of WRCT.
The New York Times and Washington
Post have named over 20 foreign leaders as 
alleged recipients of undercover money 
from the CIA. Jordan’s King Hussein was 
listed as having recieved millions in the past 
20 years, payments that were discontinued 
by President Carter when he learned of 
them scarcely a week ago. The reports 
claimed that Cypriot President, Archbishop 
Makarios,recieved SI million a year in the 
late 1960’s. The only responses from those 
involved,who also included the late Taiwan- 
ian leaderChiang Kai-Shek, former Mexican 
President Luis Echeverria, former West 
German Chancellor Willy Brandt, 
Syngman Rhee of South Korea, and Nge 
Dinh Diem of South Vietnam, were blan­
ket denials. The White House refuses to 
comment on any of the allegations.
Lloyd McBride was the official winner 
in the United Steelworkers’ presiential 
election, but the insurgent Edward Sadlow- 
ski filed a protest to overturn the ballot­
ing. Now begins the long, tedious task for 
Labor Department agents and USW tellers 
of officially tabulating the votes cast; the 
final result may not be released before the 
May 1 deadline.
Cypriot leaders have agreed to have a con­
ference this March in Vienna, two and one 
half years after the Turkish invasion of 
Cyprus. Plans for establishing a federated 
zone for Cypriots of Turkish background 
will be discussed. Presently, the Turkish 
minority, 20% of the population, holds 
40% of the land, with the aid of Turkish 
troops.
The U.S. Civil Rights Commission has said
that desegregation of some of the nation’s 
schools can occur only if suburb-city 
busing takes place. The Commission recom­
mended a funding incentive program to 
encourage such integration programs. Inter­
district busing is generally not allowed, in 
keeping with a 1974 Supreme Court ruling. 
But, if discrimination in suburban areas 
contributes to segregation, suburb-city 
busing is allowed.
Ugandan President Idi Amin brought 3,000
troops to Kampala last week to hear 
charges against three suspected coup plan­
ners. He also demanded their execution. 
Amin claimed that the U.S., Israel, Kenya, 
and Tanzania were involved in the coup 
plot. Thursday, he claimed that the Angli­
can Archbishop and two cabinet ministers 
who were involved, were killed in a car 
accident. Andrew Young, the U.S. ambas­
sador to the U.N., among others, accused 
Amin of murder.
A petrochemical complex will be built in
Saudi Arabia under an $800 million con­
tract with Dow Chemical Company and 
the Saudi state controlled oil and mineral 
company, according to the Saudis. Dow 
officials refused to confirm the report. 
Shell Oil and Mobil also have contracts 
with the Saudis.
Maine has become the third state in
the U.S. to ban the use of aerosol cans, 
as of January, 1979. Aerosols have been 
linked with the destruction of the pro­
tective layer of ozone in the atmosphere.
Indira Gandhi has announced a return to
elections in March. The political situation 
in India has taken a dramatic turn 
following the resignation of her minister of 
agriculture, Jagjwan Ram. Meanwhile, the 
death of the President, Mr. Fakhrudin Ali 
Ahmed has added to the uncertainty.
A pay hike for federal employees is now
official; the House, which froze the bid 
that would have forced a role call vote, has 
adjourned. The Senate has already refused 
to block the raise, which would boost legis­
lators’ salary by $12,900 to $57,500 a 
year.
The stock market snapped a losing streak
last week and advanced broadly with the 
Dow Jones Industrial Average up over nine 
points. The market was bouyed by good 
business news from two large corporations. 
First, AT&T rasied its dividend ten cents a 
share per quarter, this being the second di­
vidend increase in two years. Secondly, an 
antitrust suit against IBM was dismissed by 
a federal judge. This action boosted IBM 
over seven points last Monday, and is 
significant because IBM action usually 
carries over to other growth stocks. On 
Wednesday, the market retreated in very 
low volumes as profit taking and the 
announcement of a 27% drop in housing 
starts last month put selling pressure on the 
Market. Utilities advanced sharply the day 
of the AT&T announcement, and more 
than wiped out previous losses. In mone­
tary markets, the U.S. dollar dropped 
sharply, and was at its lowest level against 
the Japanese yen in two and a half years.
A New Way To Make Merry.
UST THINK BACK to your last party. Was watching your best friend fail 
asleep in the french onion dip the high point of the evening2 Did more 
than one couple say they had to leave early because they wanted to 
get home in time to watch Bowling for Dollars on television?
If you answered yes to at least one of those, you’re in a rut, and you need 
treatment right away. Next time, try serving your guests Robin Hood Cream Ale. 
Unless youre already a terminally boring person, Robin Hood 
Cream Ale will help. (It couldn't hurt)
It has a smooth, tight, frothy flavor 
“Look, turkey, you’re going to have fun, or else.”
Pick some up at your local beer dis- 
tributar or tavern. Its perfect for those 
times you get thirsty at home, or when you 
have a party, or just while you’re sitting 
around on a tree stump killing time.
Robin Hood Cream Ale.It's more fun than a barrel of beer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 — TARTAN — February 22, 1977
GSIA Using Discriminatory Club
by Amy Boyle
Prof. Thomas Kerr, head of the Adminis­
tration and Managment Science depart­
ment, in a recent memo said that the 
University Club, which houses some of the 
participants in GSIA’s Program For Execu­
tives, discriminates against women.
Although the facilities provided to the 
PFE at the Club are not discriminatory, the 
University Club does not accept or approve 
applications from women.
In a memo addressed to Prof. Bernard 
Goldsmith, director of the program, Kerr 
stated “I have had no way to check 
quickly whether they have the same policy 
respecting Blacks but I entertain the sus­
picion that this is true. My check with the 
American Jewish Committee has informed 
me that the Club has recently for the first 
time admitted Jewish men to member­
ship.”
Located at 123 University Place in Oak­
land, the University Club is a private club 
where, according to Prof. Kerr, “... busi­
ness opportunités may occur. We’re train­
ing women here. We hope they will become 
presidents of large corportations. Unless 
women have the same opportunities they 
don’t have the same chances.”
According to the woman in charge of 
membership applications at the Club, “We 
are a gentleman’s club. We don’t take 
applications from women...”
The Program For Executives is a 9 week 
seminar involving approxiamately 60 peo­
ple. GSIA experienced difficulty finding 
housing for all of the executives involved in
the program. Therefore they sought suit­
able nearby housing. One of the places 
GSIA is housing people is the University 
Club in Oakland.
GSIA has decided to “work aggressively 
for an explicit policy of non-discrimina­
tion at the Club and, if the appropriate 
policies are not affirmed, the School will 
obtain other alternatives in the future.”
Senate Submits 
Tenure Proposal
continued from page 1
only one change. Instead of having depart­
ments make up their own evaluation forms, 
he would like the Student Affairs Commit­
tee to do this. He suggested that the 
committee make up three forms, one 
for graduate, for undergraduate fine ar.ts 
and for other undergraduate classes.
According to David Roussos, chairperson 
of the committee, presently there “doesn’t 
appear to be a set, formal method of stu­
dent input in the promotional process.” 
President Cyert, Student Senate Presi­
dent Peter Yacoe and Roussos were all 
interested in getting students involved in 
faculty promotions and tenure decisions. 
Therefore, it was one of the first things the 
committee considered when it first met 
last November.
Roussos sent a letter to every depart­
ment head in January, telling them what 
the committee was doing and asking for 
comments and suggestions. The depart­
ments provided little help since less than 
20 percent of them replied.
American citizens contribute
$19.6 billionto charity annually
It’s a fact. But not likely to be a headline. Violence 
and scandal are the staples of news; individual charity 
and kindness go unremarked. This is not to make any 
Pollyannish assumption that violence does not exist 
in harrowing abundance. In perspective we must see 
that violence is in all of us. So is God. The time is 
now to try His way, in concert, on a scale never be­
fore attempted. Get together with your family, 
friends, neighbors, or co-workers to discuss the 
problems of violence and how you can work together 
to help solve them. For a helpful discussion guide 
and further information write: Religion In American 
Life, 475 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017. Plan an 
active role in your community and 
help show the way.RIAL
RElIGlO# IN AMERICAN lift
The community of(ioti. Make it vour wav.
THE GRILL*
LUNCHEON SPECIALS
THIS WEEK
11:00 AM-2:00 PM
TARTAN Grill Specials
WEDNESDAY 23rd
Big "O", Medium Soft Drink. ......................90
THURSDAY 24th
Cheeseburger, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink........................................75
FRIDAY 25th
Fish Sandwich,
Fries, Medium Soft Drink..............................86
MONDAY 28th
Chili, Medium Soft Drink..............................72
TUESDAY 1st
Hot Dog, Fries,
Medium Soft Drink.........................................68
A iMîâc Serve« 'J1Nevyïpaûê» t The Aóvertsmg Cound
THE UNGREENING OF AIKNCA BEGINS 
WIH CARELESS 
ÁfKL
V’ K
y*ì fit*...fil W Advertising .ontntiuted tor the public. gooJ ’ -

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - TARTAN - February 22,1977
Freshman Writing was first offered and requir­
ed in the fall of 1976. All freshman, regardless of 
their major are obligated to take the course be­
fore graduation. In order to maintain the quality 
of CMU and to insure that students graduate well- 
rounded in all areas, a unique order has been is­
sued by the academic affairs office.
All alumni are being required to return to CMU 
to receive their Freshman Writing credits. Diplo­
mas will be recalled if alumnus do not comply. 
The classes will be held at night in Porter 225C. 
Although many alumnus are complaining about 
the hassles that the unexpected homecoming will 
cause their professional and family lives, the first 
class has already enrolled.
FOLIO interviewed the first alumni-class 
and found varied opinions. Artist Andy Warhol 
will be commuting each day from New Orleans. 
"Me no minds much," he commented, during a 
drawing session of horse raddish jars. "I'ze never
TARTAN FOUO
FEBRUARY 22, 1977 / ISSUE SEVEN : ALUMNI
EDITOR DAVID G. ROUSSOS 
ASSISTANT EDITOR JEFFERY LLOYD ZASLOW 
ART DIRECTOR VICTORIA BOND HILL 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS MARK AKSGY
ELLIOT POPWITZ 
SCOTT POLLACK
COVERDESIGN COURTESY OF ALUMNI NEWS
Alumni registering early Thursday evening in the Highlander Room.PHOTO BY ANDY WARHOL
wasn't too gooas at English anyway!"
Former White House Staff assistant Robert 
Shaw said he enrolled in the class as quickly as he 
could. "CMU is offering the course at a very rea­
sonable price. We only have to leave them % of 
our estates in our wills."
Vasili Kuznetzoff, Russian Ambassador,got a 
degree in Metallurgy in 1933. "I'm thrilled to 
be back," he claims. He'll be living on campus, 
probably in Donner, and hopes to blend .right 
in with the many other Eurasian students on 
campus.
Astronaut Ed Mitchell walked on the moon, 
but he'll be walking on campus. "It's ashame that 
Porter Hall is at the end of campus. If they can 
send a man to the moon you'd think they could 
put a class within walking distance. It's tough 
moving around in this space suit anywhere on 
earth. Especially Pittsburgh ," he said. He also 
expressed an interest in painting the Fence. "My 
motto would be a good thing to paint," he told 
FOLIO in an interview session. "That's one small 
step for man. One Giant Leap for mankind,". As 
an alumnus of Kappa sigma, Mitchell is hoping to 
be tutored by a few brothers if he gets into 
trouble. When asked if he's glad to be back/ Mit­
chell answered, "Roger, Houston."
Joseph Eiger, President of Shell Oil hopes that 
Freshman Writing will be fun. "Should be a gas. 
I hear that Barbara Feldon will be in the class. If 
there's a seating chart, maybe I'll be sitting next 
to her. E is right before F on the old pipeline", 
Eiger said in between a press conference and a 
meeting with Ahgotta U. S. Cash, Arab oil mag­
nate and former CMU graduate from GSIA.
Bud Yorkin, producer of All in the Family also 
expressed his desire to get back into the swing of 
things. Reminiscing about his four years spent 
here as an engineering student, Yorkin said, 
"Those-were-the-days!" When asked what kind of 
days, he replied, "Weren't very good ones."
Dr. Marvin Goldberger, Physics department 
head at Princeton,is asking to be allowed to take 
a similar course at Princeton and receive the need­
ed credits. CMU officials plan to give him diagnos­
tic tests to see if he qualifies for the cross registra­
tion.
Comedian and Saturday Night Live film cre­
ator, Albert Brookstseems to be taking the course 
with a laugh. Since being fired from Saturday 
Night and costarring in the motion picture bomb 
"Taxi Driver", Brookes has gone into a fit of 
laughing. Hopefully, his constant giggle will not 
detract from the educational pursuits of his 
alumni classmates.
Fenton DiAgragario, now serving a life term in 
Lewisburg for seven counts of unmentionable of­
fenses, will have trouble returning to CMU for the 
course. Contacted during a visitor session at the 
prison, DiAgragario said that he'd like to take 
Freshman Writing in the penitentiary if possible. 
The administration is checking into the feasability 
of sending a grad student to Lewisburgh as Di- 
Agragario's private tutor.
Broadway composer/lyricist John-Michael 
Tabelak, creator of Pippin and Godspell says he 
will return. "Sure I'll be back. CMU has been us­
ing my name and my accomplishments to sell this 
place to the public for years now. I want some re­
turn on the publicity." He will be offered the 
course at no expense. Jack Klugman,who is defi­
nitely in the same predicament, will also take 
Freshman Writing, all expenses paid.
If this new course is a success, the university 
plans to present more alumni activities. A few 
now under discussion include; Alumni rush to 
coincide with Freshman rush , (will add to the 
number of pledges that fraternities can boast 
about), Alumni intramurals, Alumni food service, 
(meal plans will be arranged for alumnus and his 
entire family), and Alumni Seats in Student Senate.
1R: 
RETROACTIVE
Ahimni Reactions Vary
by Jeffrey Zaslow

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1977 — TARTAN — Page 11
by Mark Aksoy
Carnegie-Mellon Unversity is usually associated 
with Andrew Carnegie, man of steel and industry. 
But the CMU of the 20th century's concluding 
quarter came to bear the indelible mark of an­
other Andrew.
Andy Pothole seemed to be born with a puzzl­
ing fascination for dark depressions in the ground, 
i.e., holes. When only 7, he dug up his entire 
backyard, much to his parents' consternation; 
holes to him were a sort of religious experience. 
"To see emptiness where there once was dirt; that 
is a revelation." he later wrote in The Artist as 
Ditchdigger, the gospel of the Pot Art movement.
It was only natural then, when instead of pre­
senting the usual portfolio for entrance into the 
CMU Fine Arts Dept., Pothole came bearing a 
huge slab of asphalt in a second-hand pickup 
truck. It was covered with pot-hole-like depres­
sions some even filled with small rocks and mud. 
Pothole proclaimed it to be a negative sculpture; 
"Instead of shaping material surrounded by space,
I have shaped spaces surrounded by material." 
The department accepted him with great reserva­
tions - and a bit of honest curiosity.
In his spare time, which was all the time, Andy 
would take extensive walks, becoming acquainted
with the great natural beauty of Pittsburgh's 
streets and highways. He spend long hours watch­
ing traffic bounce over potholes on Forbes Ave. 
and took extensive notes: "The surface of Forbes 
has a majestic texture all its own, but is not to be 
exceeded by the rugged beauty of Fifth." Some­
times he even forgot he was a student and one 
day found himself on academic probation. 
Soon thereafter, the department, fed up with 
his dismal performance, politely asked him to leave.
Undaunted, Pothole went off to set up his own 
so-called studio which included a number of little- 
used parking lots and side streets. To see Pothole 
at work at this time was illustrative of his tech­
nique. After studying the lay of the asphalt, Pot­
hole would start diligently chiseling away. Period­
ically, he'd get into his beaten-up '78 VW and 
drive back and forth over his creation. After­
wards, he'd concentrate deeply, usually deciding: 
"It just doesn't have the right feel. Something is 
missing." After a little more hammering at an in­
significant protrusion on the hole's left side, he'd 
jump back into his car to give it another try.
In this manner, his art works such as Craig 
Street No. 2 Under Light Snow (1989) emerged, 
appearing first in local galleries, finally hitting 
New York and other major cities. Pot Art sudden­
ly became the avant-garde newcomer on the 
American art scene. Eager students from all over 
the country came to Pittsburgh to chisel and dig 
under Pothole's direction. In 1991, the city 
government under Mayor Florence Flaherty, a 
distant relation to former mayor Pete Flaherty,
got wind of the sudden artistic promineence of 
one of their native sons. And so the Department 
of Public Works, faced with an alternative to 
spending $1.5 million for road resurfacing, com­
missioned Andy Pothole to redesign 5th Ave. 
along his own artistic lines to the tune of 
$1,863.22. The old potholes were filled up, new 
ones were dug, and the result was a mass of over­
worked cars shaking themselves to pieces on aes­
thetically re-arranged negative sculptures. The re­
designing took 3 years to complete and was prais­
ed by the art world. Pothole appeared on the 
cover of TIME under the caption: ART—THE 
HOLE TRUTH. CMU of course had to do some­
thing about this, and so Pothole was given the 
honorary degree of Doctor of Fine Arts at the 
1995 Commencement The next day, members of 
the CMU Honorary Alumni Association appeared 
at his door to congratulate him and ask if he 
could make a sizable honorary donation to the 
university.
Pothole was quickly becoming a folk hero of 
sorts, much to his horror. Pot Art aficionados des­
cended upon 5th Ave. ripping it to pieces in their 
quest for souvenirs. The shy artist, mobbed by 
autograph seekers and newspapermen, finally 
could stand it no longer and resettled in McKees 
Rocks.
By 2006, Pittsburgh was suffering from its 10th 
consecutive year of extremely hot weather. 
The temperature climbed to a steady 125° and 
the custom of planting palm trees in front yards 
was catching on. Crocociles and an occassional
continued on page 14
YOU LIKE
HIGH PLACES?
SEATS IN STUDENT SENATE STILL AVAILABLE 
IN ALL CONSTITUENCIES EXCEPT AMS & SUPA 
YOU, TOO, CAN STILL BE PRESIDENT! 
ALL PETITIONS AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFO 
DESK DUE FEBRUARY 24r 1977. 
funded by activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 — TARTAN — February 22, 1977
\blunteer.
The National Center forVJuntary Action
You can help people.
In fact, there’s a crying need for you. Your 
talents. Your training. Your concerns. They can 
make you priceless as a volunteer in your 
community.
Take a moment to think of all that can be 
done. For children. The environment. Sick 
people. Old people. People who just need some­
one behind them.
Then take another moment to think of what 
you can do. Perhaps by applying your job skills or 
personal interests to voluntary action.
There are probably several organizations 
hard at work in your town doing things you’d be 
proud to be part of. We’ll put you in touch with 
them. Join one. Or, if you see the need, start a 
new one.
If you can spare even a few hours a week, call 
your local Voluntary Action Center. Or write: 
“Volunteer,’ Washington, D.C. 20013.
It’ll do you good to see how much good 
you can do.
A Puttc Service ol The Newspaper I The Advertising Cöuncd
Ci
*&£ Jt j'S*0*

---------------------------------------------------

February 22. 1977 - TARTAN - Page 13
The LcmgI 5cot 1st
by David Roussos
Do you think you're ready to be an Alumnus? 
Well, it means a lot more than knowing there's 
an h at the end of Pittsburgh. If you can answer 
these questions you're bound to be another big 
name from Tech.
1 Mitchell and Ritchey were:
a) the first two students to enroll in 1900
b) the designers of Donner Hall
c) a famous dance team that graduated in
1938
2 In 1961, did more students consider themselves:
a) Democrats
b) Republicans
c) Independents
3 The Scot was:
a) CIT's humor magazine criticized for being 
"crowded with advertisements for bars"
b) the school song
c) a hang out popular in the 1930's
4 In student and faculty mock elections in 1956 
the results showed:
a) both students and faculty chose Ike
b) students picked Ike, faculty picked 
Stevenson
c) students picked Stevenson, faculty picked 
Ike
5The Buggy race winner in 1948 was:
a) Alpha Tau Omega
b) Sigma Nu
c) Kappa Sigma
6The theme for the 1953 Homecoming was:
a) Famous Movies
b) Roaring Twenties
c) the Korean War
70riginally located on the Hunt Library site was:
a) Skibo
b) a motor raceway
c) farm land
8Elected by the Kilties in 1951 as "The Best- 
Dressed Man in Kilts" was:
a) Rege Cordic
b) Bob Prince
c) David Lawrence
9Elaine Edwards, a junior in clothing and textiles 
in Margaret Morrison Carnegie College:
a) played the piano
b) was voted best dressed in the class of '49
c) was Pennsylvania's 1956 Apple Blossom 
Queen
lODr. Alan J. Perlis was:
a) winner of the 1960 C.G. Goodrigh Science 
Award
b) first director of the Computation Center
c) architect of Science Hall
111n 1909, the Tartan cost:
a) nothing
b) two cents
c) ten cents
17The first place winner for Homecoming decora­
tions in 1953 was:
a) Alpha Tau Omega
b) Sigma Nu
c) Kappa Sigma
18C. Parsons was known, in 1906, for his work:
a) in shaping the still young CIT
b) as mascot of the football team
c) in the kitchen, pleasing many tongues with 
his favorite, turtle soup
19The newly appointed Dean of Students in 1955 
was:
a) John W. Graham
b) William J. Graham
c) G.Y. Graham
12The Beetles were:
a) a 1963 Glee Club
b) what resulted after eating Skibo food in
1939
c) a Fine Arts sorority in 1944
13Cathy Andrews was:
a) the 1957 Homecoming Queen
b) a popular model who graduated in 1940
c) nobody in particular
14Donner Hall was first occupied in:
a) 1954
b) 1959
c) 1962
15CIT's track team string of 32 straight wins (1951- 
1955) was broken by:
a) Pitt
b) Westminster
c) Central Regional
16Tumpame, Criswell, Colvin, Douthett, and Hines 
were:
a) the Deans of E&S, F.A., MMCC, I.M., and 
S.I.A. in 1961
b) Editor-m-Chief, Business Manager,
Managing Editor, Athletic Editor, and Staff 
Photographer of the Tartan in the fall of 
1919
c) CIT's starting five basketball players who 
lost to Allegheny 70-12 on February 22, 
1914
200tto Stern was:
a) a research professor in the Physics Depart­
ment and the winner of the Nobel Prize in 
Physics in 1943.
b) President of the University from 1926-1929
c) the cook who make turtle soup in 1906
21 Master Sargent Evans was:
a) head of CIT's ROTC in the 1960's
b) coach of the 1956 rifle team
c) a homewrecker
22Panda was:
a) a college activity similar to the Chinese fire 
drill
b) the name of Andrew Carnegie's goat
c) SAE's nomination for Dog of the Year 
(1945)
23 George Bushey was:
a) the 1935 Homecoming Queen's Escort
b) selected as IM All-Star in 1952
c) arrested for running naked across the Cut in 
1969
24The first Scotch & Soda musical was:
a) "The Lady's At Work"
b) "No Spring"
c) "Gee, It's Good To Be Back Home"
ANSWERS ON PAGE 14
[ FOLIO SURVEY
In March 1961, the Carnegie Tartan polled its readers on certain issues. 
! How do you feel, 16 years later?¦
| College: [ I H&SS [ I CIT [ 1 MIS [ 1CFA [ iGSIA [ lAMS [ 1SUPA
>4;,.;U- .
Year: [ ] Fresh. [ ]Soph. [ 1 Jr. [ ] Sr. [ ]Grad. [ ]Fac.
i
1) Do you think that at 65 you will prefer to 
[ ] Retire
[ ¡Work as long as you can be an asset
• 2)In evaluating the importance of religion in a country, church 
attendance is only part of the picture, and such things as business 
ethics and of religious themes in books and movies must also be 
considered. Do you think the importance of religion in this country
¦ [ ] is increasing
[ ] is decreasing
[ ] is remaining relatively unchanged?
i
• 3) Do you belive (sic) in capital punishment?
! [ ] Yes
! [ ] No
4) Assume that increasing the salaries of any profession would draw 
greater numbers and more capable people to that profession. With this 
in mind, how would you distribute money between the following 
groups for the greatest benefit to the country? Indicate the two 
groups you would pay the highest by "1"s; the second highest two 
groups by "2"s ; and so on:
[ ] artists and writers 
[ ]educators 
[ ]military men 
[ ]scientists and engineers 
[ ] priests, ministers, rabbis 
[ ¡diplomats and legislators 
[ ]business executives 
[ ] physicians
5) Where would you most like to live?
[ ] in a large city 
[ ] in the suburbs of a large city 
[ ] in a small town 
[ ] in the country 
Mail to Tartan, Box 17, Skibo or bring to Room 50, Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - TARTAN - February 22, 1977
THE HOLE STORY
continued from page 11
pirhana had been sighted in the Monogehela. It 
was at this time that Pothole realized the concept 
of negative sulpture as an environment that one 
could live in. He envisioned great populations 
nestling in innumerable concavitites in the 
ground, ie., in giant potholes. Given the torrid 
climate of the time, a shaded pothole in the cool 
earth would be a relief from the blazing sun. 
CMU, now a hotbed of Pot Art sentiment, was 
quick to take advantage of the artist's utterances. 
President Mortimer P. 'Sure Bet' Flaherty, a dis­
tant relative of former mayor Florence Flaherty, 
persuaded the Board of Trustees to agree to con­
vert the ancient Morewood parking lot into the 
Andrew Pothole Center for Negative Education. 
Soon, a series of hugh craters appeared housing 
classrooms, dorms, administrative offices, and 
even a rollerball rink. Similiar sites eventually ap­
peared on other campuses, in city centers and 
even in residential areas.
Today, in 2015, Pothole is an idle philospher 
and has spent most of the past year meditating on 
the essence of Negativity at the bottom of Meteor 
Crater in Arizona. Some say he does little more 
than babble at the rock walls of his sunken world. 
Yet he has already acquired a semblance of im­
mortality. US President Ignatius X. Flaherty, a 
not so distant relative of Morty'Sure Bet'Flaher­
ty, declared him Cultural Hero of the decade. Re­
cently, on the TV special Pothole: The Concept 
and the Man, Andy was asked what he'd do if he 
lost all interest in life and replied predictably 
enough: "I think I'd curl up in a hole and die.
THE LOYAL SCOT TEST
answers from page 13 
1) b
2) b, the exact figures were: Republican 43.8%,
Independent 29.9%, 
Democrat 22.8%, 
Other 3.5%
3) a
4) b, the exact figures were:Students- Ike 75.6%, Stevenson 22.5%,
Carmen Monoxide 1.3%,Others 0.6% ; 
Faculty- Stevenson 50.5%, Ike 49.5%
5) c, at a time of 2:48
6) b
7) a
8) a
9) a and c, she enjoyed the cooking,too
10) b
11) c
12) c
13) a
14) a, 32 students moved into
the third floor's east wing
15) b
16) c
17) a, it was a beer mug
18) b
19) a
20) a
21) b, if there are two choices for this
we don't know about it22) c
23) b
24) b, the date was 1938ASCENT OF MAN
Tuesday
Documentary Film Series
Film times= 11:30 & 12:30
Wherrett Room, Skibo
FEB 22|The Starry J i MessengerMAR 8|The Majestic I ICIockworkE15IThe Drive for Power
23 FEBRUARY
ASH WEDNESDAY MASSES!
12:00 NOON HUNT LIBRARY MULTIPURPOSE ROOM 
5:00 PM. (USE FREW ST. ENTRANCE)
ASHES WILL BE DISTRIBUTED DURING THE LITURGY
"A TIME TO REFLECT ON LIFE, 
DEATH AND RESURRECTION"
"REMEMBER . . . JESUS WAS 
THE FIRST TO BECOME ASHES!
SUNDAY MASSES:
7s00 P.M. Saturday Evening
Tech House: 5125 Margaret Morrison
10*30 AJVL Science Hall 
Room 7500
DAILY MASSES:
12x30 Noon timetMonday through Friday 
Skibo Room 39
&
Uitmnty Ontay of toe Hoi* Spirit Parish 
CMU Campus - Fr. Bob Eftffsh 
4040 Bifelow BM. Pittsfcorfh. Pa. 15213 
MI-3111

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 15it s your senate, 
it's your voice.
ELECTION:
PRESIDENT 
STUDENT SENATE
POLLING THURS­
DAY, MARCH 10, 
FROM 1:00 PM TO 
MIDNIGHT AND 
FRIDAY, MARCH 
11, FROM 8:00 AM 
TO 4:00 PM
REFERENDUM:
SHOULD CMU 
INCREASE ITS 
ACTIVITIES FEE?
AT THE FOLLOWING PLACES:
DONNER HALL MOREWOOD SKIBO
If your address is If you live in All others—
Margaret Morrison Morewood Commuters, Frats,
or Roselawn Etc.
THE HOPEFULS SPEAK
INTERVIEW: March 6. 1977, 7:00 PM, WRCT 88.3 FM
FORUM: March 9, 1977, 4:00 PM, Wherrett Room
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
get involved!
ZL

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 - TARTAN - February 22, 1977
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS
During the summer, 1977, there will be two 
six-week sessions as follows:
1st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 17 — June 24
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 27 — August 5
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION: 
$28/unit — All undergraduates
GRADUATE TUITION: 
$34/unit — CFA/H&SS 
$45/unit — CIT/MIS
This is a tentative list of courses to be offered. 
The actual list of courses and class schedules 
will be announced and published depending 
upon student response.
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to: Director, Summer Studies, 
Admissions Office (101 Warner Hall).
For further information, phone:
(412) 621-2600, campus extension 8807.
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name
(1) =First Session: May 17 — June 24; (2) = Second Session: June 27— August 5
Biology:03-121Modern Biology9 units(1) and (2)
Chemistry:09-105Dynamics and Equilibria9 units(1)
09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-1 42Physical Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Computer15-104Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)9 units(1) and (2)
Science:15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)9 units(1)
15-211Fundamental Structures of Programming •9 units(1) and (2)
Mathematics:21-121Calculus I11 units(1)
21-122Calculus II11 units(1) and (2)
21-123Calculus III11 units(1) and (2)
21-259Differential Equations and Linear Algebra9 units(1)
21-260Partial Differential Equations and Vector Analysis9 units(2)
Physics:33-121Physics I: Mechanics (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33-1 23Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism (Self-Pacec)10 units(1) and (2)
33-124Atomic Physics and Structure of Matter10 units(1) and (2)
Statistics:36-211Probability and Applied Statistics I9 units(1) and (2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics II9 units(U and (2)
36-21 5Probability and Statistics I9 units(1)
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(2)
Civil12-205Introduction to Engineering Mechanics9 units(1)
Engineering:12-211Solids Mechanics I9 units(1)
12-215Materials12 units<1)
Electrical
Engineering:
18-235Topics in Computer Engineering — Microprocessors9 units(1)
Nuc. Sci. & Eng.: 25-713Nuclear Reactor Spatial Distribution Physics9 units(1)
M.M.S.:27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1) and (2)
27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1) and (2)
27-350Seminar9 units(1) and (2)
27-755Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1) and (2)
27-775Thesisvar. units(1) and (2)
39-227Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation II9 units(1) and (2)
Biomedical42-500Physiology9 units(1)
Engineering:42 560Undergraduate Projectsvar. units(2)
Economics:73-100Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I9 units(1)
73-200Econ. Growth and Fluctuations9 units11)
73-250Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.9 units(1)
73-459Benefit Cost Analysis9 units(1)
English:76-100Freshman Writing9 units(2)
76-407'The Contemporary Novel9 units(2)
76-427The Drama of the Absurd9 units(2)
76-581Business and Professional Communication9 units(2)
76-721Shakespeare12 units(2)
76-806Nobel Novelists12 units(2)
76-851Functional Writing12 units¦(2)
76-887American Humor: Nineteenth and Twentieth Century12 units(2)
History:79-799History and the Social Sciences12 units(2)
79-804Power and Values in History12 units(2)
79-856The Teaching of History12 units(2)
79-857Readings in Historyvar. units(2)
79-869Internship in Historical Researchvar. units(2)
Design:51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography6 units(2)
Music:
| Mailing Address
1 am interested in the following course(s): 
Course Number TitleSession
’lease return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Art:
Modern 
Languages and 
Literature:
Psychology:
57-867
57-873
57-875
57-733
57-741
60-751
60-251
60-229,729
60-119,719
60-237,737
60-235,735
60-380,780
60-254,754
60-226,726
60-233,733
60-231,731
60-261,761
60-247,747
60-369,769
82-107
82-123
82-143
85 101
Administration and Supervision in Music Education 
(June 27 — July 15)
Principles of Music Education (July 18 — August 5) 
Contemporary Problems in Music Education 
Advanced Choral Techniques (July 5 — July 17) 
Advanced Instrumental Techniques (July 19— July 31)
Advanced Ceramics
Ceramics
Color
Drawing
Intaglio
Lithography
Contemporary Art
Metalcrafts
Painting
Relief Printing
Screen Printing
Sculpture
Experimental Metal Platemaking Workshop 
in Lithography (June 6 — June 17)
Tapestry Workshop (June 27 — July 15)
French (Intensive or Programmed)
German (Intensive or Programmed)
Spanish (Intensive or Programmed)
Introduction to Psychology
6 units
6 units 
6 units 
6 units 
6 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
6 units 
9 units
var. units 
var. units 
var. units
9 units
(2)
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2) 
(2)
(1) and (2) 
(1) and (2) 
(1) and (2)
(1)

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
FERGUSON AT CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
by David C. Lucas
The Maynard Ferguson concert, spon­
sored by CMLPs Activities Board was quite 
successful both aesthetically and financial­
ly. But it was not a typical college event. 
The night seemed to possess an air of soph­
istication. Part of that feeling was due to 
the luxurious gilt and marble decor of the
Carnegie Music Hall. The audience, surpris­
ingly enough, was comprised of well be­
haved yet enthusiastic students. Many were 
formally attired, as the concert date coin­
cided with a few frat dinners.
The stage of the Music Hall was outfit­
ted with a maze of chairs and platforms 
and it glittered with the brass and steel of
instruments and sound equipment. One by 
one, the eleven members of Ferguson’s 
group appeared wearing black pants and 
teeshirts with the “M F/Conquistadores” 
logo printed in white. Most looked ex­
tremely well fed. After a few minutes of 
warming up, a saucy young lady bopped 
out from the wings and introduced the
star.
Out came a grinning, white-haired ted- 
dybear of a man in a fuzzy tan jumpsuit. 
The band broke unto Herbie Hancock’s 
Chameleon, amidst thunderous applause.
Over a background of punchy, tightly 
arranged brass instruments, Ferguson gave 
his stylized solo: brief, vigorous and of an
often earsplitting pitch. Throughout the middle of this and most 
songs, he clapped, grimaced, directed, pranced and pointed.
In a musically democratic process, each member of the group had at 
least one solo. Marc Holby was spotlighted in Chameleon. It appeared as though he’s 
sucked the microphone up into his clarinet, producing a variety of interesting growling, 
mewling and crying noises. At the end of the tune, Ferguson returned to provide the 
creaming finale.
The next number, from the soon-to-be- released Conquistadores album, was the 
theme from Star Trek. In this discoesque arrangement, keyboardist Biff Hannon pro­
vided “warp factor six” sound effects at strategic moments. Ferguson gave soaring, 
romantic renditions of the basic theme at the start and finish. The fillers were smart, 
synchronized brass lines and the first of a series of amazing solos by 
flautist Bobby Militello.
In The Way We Were, Ferguson’s warbling trumpet was contrasted 
with a smokey solo by lead trombonist Randy Purcell,
Maynard Ferguson appeared in concert at Carnegie Music Hall on February 11 and TARTAN 
Photography Editor Elliot Popowitz was on hand to take these pictures. Clockwise, from the 
pictures these captions find themselves between: Marc Holby and Bobby Militello, Maynard
Ferguson, the band's trumpet section, Randy Purcell, and Maynard Ferguson.
{son of Jack and a native of Pittsburgh.)
This was followed by the “bebop sax duet”, Two for Otis. There 
were fluttering fingers on every string» button, key, or drumstick in the 
band, with Holby and Militello displaying unfathomable speed in 
their saxophone playing.
Ferguson often joked with the audience. In one instance, he likened his band to the 
Spanish Conquistadores because both groups “totally raped and pillaged the West 
Coast of America.” The song Conquista dores featured bullfight-trumpet septet inter- 
Judes and Aztec-rock riffs.
A kimono-clad band and a velvet-suited Ferguson began the second 
set with an ex cerpt from one of his most popular numbers, MacArthur 
Park.
The Fly, a tune resembling CfTameleon, followed. The bookish
looking Gordon Johnson surprised the 
audience with his Hendrix-flavored bass 
solo. The similarly meek appearing Mike 
Migliori gave an exhilerating clarinet solo 
and Ferguson ended the song.
Heavy on commercialism, Ferguson an­
nounced the release of his first single on 
Columbia, Gonna Fly Now (theme from 
Rocky.) The song had the unmistakable 
Ferguson brand as well as the theme flavor.. 
The band performed in close order drill 
vdth the leader. CQntributingiireatiuakiagly
high and lengthy notes.
Suite Firebird II presented a more com­
plex arrangement with a myriad of differ­
ent brass combinations. The rich tones of a 
trombone interlude by Roger Holm field 
were a nice break from the harshness of the 
orchestra.
The well-timed climax of the show came 
with the Vestiliguba from Leoncavallo’s 
opera Pagliacci, popularly recognized as the 
love theme from Rice Crispies. The lengthy 
.number began with Ferguson's bdlecanto-
solo on the trumpet. A lush percussion in­
terlude followed. The highlight of the tune, 
and probably of the whole evening, was a 
flute solo by Bobby Militello. He alternat­
ed between exotic, luxurious birdcall ef­
fects, beatnick coffeehouse styles. Loony, 
Tunes melodies and entrancing space-echo 
effects. Next, he played in front of a full 
orchestra, earning his own standing ova­
tion. When the brass players dispersed into 
the audience for some mindshattering 
spaoe^ .rock« F«re»!»on stayed • on stage.
flaunting his full musical range, from silken 
tones to dog’s whistle shrillness.
As an encore, Ferguson delighted the 
audience with a Las Vegas rendition of I 
Can't Get Started With You. In a passable 
singing voice, he showed his nerve as well 
as a knack for showmanship.
Indeed. Maynard Ferguson has a highly 
polished, refined act. Personality-wise and 
musically, this act is exciting and entejtain- 
ing. which explains his success with the col­
lege audience. i*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTAN - February 22, 1977
FELLINI'S CASANOVA LABOR OF LOVE
by C.R. Childs
With Casanova, Italian filmmaker 
Frederico Fellini once again demonstrates 
his uncanny ability to extract beauty out 
of rather sordid imagery. Fellini has never 
been known to make “pretty” Films, at 
least not by any American definition of the 
word. Nor could his films ever be accused 
of being conventional. Fellini refuses to 
conform almost as much as he refuses to 
play it safe.
Fellini is a modern model of the film­
maker as an artist, and Fellini’s Casanova 
is highly representative of his seemingly 
flawless talents. Fellini has the vision of 
an artist and the showmanship to make it 
work. This rare chemistry of vision renders 
him untouchable by American directors. 
Unfortunately, artists with vision in this 
country still operate out of the idea that 
it is the filmmaker’s job to duplicate 
reality, and they fritter away their films in 
this futile quest for what they believe to 
be truthful. Fellini’s abstractions and 
distortions of photographic realism enable 
him to give his audiences imagery that 
is somehow closer to the essence of truth 
than a reproduction could ever be.
Fellini’s Casanova was four years in the 
making. He is a perfectionist. As always, 
Fellini keeps his subject matter rooted 
in his homeland. His mammoth pride for 
the Italian culture and its richly tissued 
past shines through in all of his films. So 
Fellini starts us off in Venice and unites 
us with that immortal Italian lover. Gia­
como Giralamo Casanova.
The script was adapted from Casanova’s 
own memoirs, which tell of his sexual suc­
cesses throughout Europe. It is a character 
study, not a well-plotted story in any tra­
ditional sense. This choice accentuates Fel­
lini’s genius; he gives us only the surface 
details, forcing us to continually create the 
story in our heads. His objective is to mere­
ly isolate the flavor of the people and the 
times.
Casanova is one of the most colorful 
characters in European history. The tales 
of his triumphs were so adventurous and 
the anecdotes about his bawdy life so
extreme that twenty-five years after his 
death his very existence was doubted. This 
was a man without shame, and it seems 
only appropriate that a filmmaker without 
shame should want to immortalize his 
story in celluloid. Casanova and his retinue 
of royalty, peasants, lovers, philosophers, 
and freaks are perfect raw material from 
which Fellini can work.
Casanova has all of the trademarks of a 
Fellini film. His style is idiosyncratic, but 
not redundant. The accent is on the visual, 
the dialogue is kept to a minimum. The 
events of Casanova’s eccentric life establish 
only a passive structure for the film. The
liberties Fellini takes with the text are ori­
ginal as well as dramatically justifiable. The 
construction of Casanova’s room meshes 
nicely with the construction Fellini uses 
for this and many of his earlier films. He 
follows someone, usually a young man, 
through his rites of passage or some other 
educating process.
On this loose structure, Fellini imposes 
strict stylistic constraints and layer upon 
layer of carefully dictated detail. The assur­
ance with which Fellini is able to handle 
this vast amount of imagery is amazing. 
It is immediately evident that Fellini is 
more than a craftsman at work.
The action is episodic. Fellini moves 
from sequence to sequence with only 
enough threads of continuity to hold the 
film together. There are many banquets 
and much pageantry. Fellini is wonderful 
with these chaotic crowd scenes. He is able 
to define the patterns and the order in 
extreme disorder. Just when it appears all 
is lost in confusion, Fellini snaps every­
thing into place, as if his intentions were 
logical from the start. There is only a 
subconscious awareness that he is playing 
these games, but it is part of a director’s 
job to manipulate his audience.
Each shot is set up with the secure com­
position of a Dutch master. The filmmaker 
follows his target from Venice to Paris, to 
London, to Germany, into jails, out of cat- 
houses, dining with royalty and copulating 
with hunchbacks, bantering with poets and 
seducing the last vestiges of the literally 
dying aristocracy. There were many unro­
mantic aspects of the great romantic’s life, 
and Fellini chooses to dwell on these.
As usual, Fellini populates his screen 
with actors. He had to go further than 
Central Casting to find the faces are incre­
dible. Their features, seemingly exag­
gerated, attach themselves to the audi­
ence’s deceptively so. A lesser actor 
couldn’t give the character the subtleties 
of texture Sutherland handles with ease.
Fellini’s ability to control light and 
color surpasses the realms of criticism. This 
gift secures him extreme allowances with 
his artistic license. The audience never 
knows where his light is coming from or 
why his colors complement each other so 
carefully. But this is not to be questioned. 
Fellini’s theatrical sense has never catered 
to the realistic.
It is a perceptive blend of both high and 
low comedy and only aspects of it are uni­
versally understandable. Some of his bits 
are lifted right out of the tradition of the 
commedia dell’ arte, (an Italian institution) 
like the bloodletting doctor who comes to 
cure the fainting spells of one of Casa­
nova’s women.
The moments of high comedy are the 
best. Fellini is one of the few directors who 
could present sexual foreplay in the decor­
ous atmosphere of elevated comedy. Much 
of it is done with the moderation of a 
minuet. Some of Casanova’s lines in his 
foreplay speeches, and there are many 
such lines, are hysterical. He entices a 
nun with, “That unearthly beauty of yours 
releases the artist in me.” He proceeds to 
deflower a schoolgirl using “Let us trans­
cend carnal pleasures.” An aging patron of 
the arts falls to his vices with, “Held me to 
implement the great work.”
Casanova’s ego pulsates like a heartbeat 
throughout the film. It is hard to identify 
with a man who modestly proclaims, “I 
am profoundly sensitive, there is no 
denying it.” But we still sympathize with
him and hope for the best for him. We see 
him both in his prime and at his worst.
There are several poignant moments 
where Fellini succeeds at evoking pathos 
for his braggart hero. One of the finest 
of these takes place just after Casanova has 
been thrown out of a coach in London by 
a common whore and her mother. Alone 
on a bridge at night, in the midst of a 
raging storm, Casanova, who is suffering 
impotent times, contemplates suicide. He 
dresses in the clothing of his youth and 
enters the river to drown himself, only 
to be stopped by the sight of another 
beautiful woman.
But Fellini saves his best dramatic 
twists for last. The aging Casanova retreats
into seclusion to organize his memoirs. 
Amongst younger men more virile than 
himself, he comes across as a muttering, 
senile old man. No one takes the stories 
of his exploitations seriously. “I am a 
scholar... I am a writer ... I am an artist,” 
he mumbles. In the final seconds of the 
film we see him attempting to seduce a 
wooden, German-made replica of a woman, 
and it is a sad sight. The poetic metaphors 
of that one instance are countless.
Attaching a style to this film is difficult. 
Fellini keeps switching them. He uses what­
ever seems appropriate for that scene. But 
he always remains true to his point of view 
whether he is filming a surrealistic, expres-
sionistic or realistic sequence. He goes with 
what works, and knowing what to use and 
when to use it is part of the art.
Casanova is not as personal as many of 
his earlier works about more recent Italian 
history. But it lacks none of thé quality 
that is expected from Fellini. The Pitts­
burgh edition is a cut down version from 
the four hour film that opened in Los 
Angeles over Christmas. The film is pro­
bably a bit more tame now, and more 
suited to popular tastes.
Fellini has a way of showing us the 
many possibilities of making a film that 
American directors tend to overlook. To 
ask for more would be presumptuous.
0EA.VER Wï Bru<-« Bro>.chr»o.v\
vVe FiiJD BEAV «»DuiN6 on 
HIS NEW PROGRAM___
$ SPflCEWflft StôlUJ-FITJQtt:
5fl^uarrca ba^ir? 0asa%

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1977 — TARTAN — Page 19
COFFEEHOUSE
presents
NORMAN BLAKE
SAT. MARCH 5 
9:00 P.M.
MOREWOOD GARDENS CAFETERIA
also appearing
DUCK BAKER
REFRESHMENTS
FREE

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
THEATRE
McKeesport Little Theater continues its
16th Season with the Mystery "Dial M 
for Murder". Performances are scheduled 
every Friday and Saturday at 8:30 p.m. 
with Sunday performances at 7:30 p.m. 
beginning Friday, Feb. 25 and running 
every weekend through March 13.
Mike Drive appears in the role of 
Tony, and his wife Alison Driver appears 
in the role of Margot. Although Mike and 
Alison are newcomers to the McKeesport 
Little Theater stage, they are well known 
for their performances at other Commu­
nity Theaters in the area.
For reservations, please call 673-1100.ART
A collection of paintings and drawings by
Mark Mentzer will be shown in the Hewlett 
Gallery of the CMU Fine Arts Building 
from February 21 to March 9. A reception 
will be held from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. on 
February 21. The gallery hours are 9:00
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday to Friday.MUSIC
Nelson Riddle, famed "pops" conductor
and composer, makes his first appearance 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony in "Pops" 
concerts February 19, 20 and 21 — perfor­
mances Saturday and Sunday at 8 p.m. and 
Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Heinz Hall.
Although the "Pops" series is sold-out 
to series subscribers for the fourth consecu­
tive season, tickets are often returned to 
the box office for resale. Phone 412-281- 
5000 for ticket information 
Isaac Stern, world famous violinist, makes 
his annual guest soloist appearance with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony in Heinz Hall 
concerts Feb. 25, 26 and 27 performing
exuberant sounds of that big band era. 
Tickets for each event are priced at $8, $7 
and $6.
All tickets are on sale by mail order now 
from the Heinz Hall box office, 600 Penn 
Avenue, Pittsburgh 15222. Make checks 
payable to Heinz Hall and enclose a 
stamped self-addressed envelope. Group 
discounts are available by phoning Mrs. 
Kathy Meyer at 412-281-8185.__________MISC.
" 'Tis an ill wind that blows no man to
profit” and, indeed, it was cold, arctic 
air accompanied by snow along with the 
energy shortage that caused the cancel­
lation of the Pittsburgh Opera's second 
performance of THE BARTERED BRIDE 
on January 29. Despite this misfortune, 
the Pittsburgh Opera is in the process of 
preparing for its fourth production of the 
1976-1977 season. One of the most popu­
lar French operas ever written, FAUST, by
Gounod, will be presented on March 10 
and 12, 1977. The cast includes Pierre 
Duval as Dr. Faust, Metropolitan Opera 
star Justino Diaz cast as Mephistopheles, 
with lovely Heather Thomson as Mar­
guerite. Other stellar performers include: 
Richard Barrett, Puli Tori, Mimi Lerner, 
and Leslie Young, a recent local Metro­
politan Opera audition winner.
'The epitome of good comedy is Mo­
zart's COSI FAN TUTTE. This parody 
on the fickleness of women will be 
presented on March 31 and April 2. 
The excellent cast is as follows: Tenor 
John Stewart plays Ferrando, Metro­
politan" Opera stars Johanna Meier and 
Mildred Miller as FiordiIigi and Dora- 
bella respectively, Jack Gardner as 
Guglielmo, Claude Corbeil as Don Alfon­
so with Gwenlynn Little in the role of 
Despina.
George Rochberg's Violin Concerto which 
Stern world-premiered here two years ago.
Andre Previn will conduct the perfor­
mances Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 8:30 
p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m., which also 
include the suite from Prokofiev's "Romeo 
and Juliet."
Although the Pittsburgh Symphony's 
season concerts have been sold-out by 
series subscription, tickets are often re­
turned to the box office for resale. Ticket 
information is available by phoning the 
Heinz Hall box office at 412-281-5000.
A new "Cavalcade of Great Bands" at
Heinz Hall opens with Count Basie and his 
Orchestra for one performance only on 
March 21, and continues into May with the 
lively sounds of Woody Herman, Harry 
James, Guy Lombardo, and Les Brown and 
his "Band of Renown" with Paula Kelly 
and the Modernaires.
The all-star cast for the "Cavalcade of 
Great Bands" promises multiple treats 
for those many Pittsburghers who love the
The easily-recognized and beloved aria, 
"La donna e mobile" will be sung by 
Enrico di Giuseppe as the Duke of Mantua 
in RIGOLETTO on April 21 and 23. The 
cast includes Louis Quilico as Rigoletto, 
Benita Valente as Gilda, and William Wil- 
derman as Sparafucile. Others in suppor­
ting roles are Rita DeCarlo, Jimmie 
Lu Null, Craig Nim, Leslie Young, John 
Myers, Robert Olsavicky and Janet Kane.
All of the performances begin at 8:15 
p.m. at Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts. 
They are supported by a grant from the 
National Endowment for the Arts in 
Washington, D.C., a federal agency. Call 
281-0912 for personalized ticket service 
by the Pittsburgh Opera staff.
GOING HOME FOR THE 
HOLIDAYS
or just going?
Call us for all your travel plans 
For faculty direct billing to contracts 
accepted
No Service Charge 
Free delivery of Tickets
I MARLYSE LUPIS I
FORBES TRAVEL
( 521-1443 (
^NIIIHIIIIIIllltllllllUIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIimillllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllll^
IlllIIUlXIIIUMliaBUI^
NEED HELP S
IN ANY OF THESE COURSES?
M
E
PHYSICS I, II, III ECONOMICS 1
CALCULUS I, II, III STATICS N
CHEMISTRY BIOLOGY
ENGINEERING HIGHER MATH
LANGUAGES PROB/STATa
M 
M
It
THom people who wish to sign up at o tutor wolcomol
M M
l»Hsnu»nnu.u»iH»Hl
F.A.S.T. (Free Academic Student Tutoring), The Peer Help 
Tutoring Sarvice offers halp in many courses you may be having 
trduble in. Need a tutor? Stop in Peer Help, 150 A Baker Hall.
We want men and women with engineering or other technical degrees
... for careers in steel operations, shipbuilding, engineering, sales, mining, ana research.
Our Loop Course recruiters will be here on
Mar. 9,10 1977
an equal opportunity employer*

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
February 22, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 21
TARTANS BURY CASE 102-77
by Bob Firm
As game time was rapidly approaching 
at Skibo Gym Saturday, the main question 
was where were the visiting Case Western 
Reserve Spartans. The Cleveland team was 
late in arriving at Pittsburgh. If they had 
known how the game was going to turn 
out, they would have saved the time and 
effort of the bus trip because Camegie- 
Mellon used their most impressive display 
of the season in rolling to a 102-77 victory.
All five starters for Coach Dave Malo­
ney’s Tartans reached the double figure 
mark and all team members reached the 
scoring column. CMU remained perfect in 
the Presidents’ Athletic Conference’s top 
position with an 11-0 league record. Tech 
is now sporting a 16-3 chart. This assures 
the 1976-77 squad of at least tying the 
school record for winning percentage set in 
1965-66.
Balanced scoring was the key factor in 
the Tartans romp. Greg Chambers finally 
put all his fluid talents together to lead the 
scoring with a career high 23 points. G.C., 
as he is often called, has sparkled offensive­
ly and defensively in his last few outings 
showing that he is 100% after a nagging 
ankle injury.
George Harvey started rewriting the c 
CMU record books. Early in the second * 
half, he scored his 169th field goal of the I 
season to break the high mark established > 
by Gene Turner in 1970-71 of 168. Har- g 
vey only needs 29 points in his final three ° 
games to set the single season scoring = 
record held by Bill Soffa in 1959-60 of £©454. Harvey ended an outstanding after- | 
noon with 21 points and nine assists.
Marty Costa, Les Harper, and Ralph 
DeaBrunzzo all got hot from the field in 
aiding CMU to a 59% shooting percentage. 
Costa fired in 16 on turnaround jumpers, 
Harper hit for 15, and DeaBrunzzo’s 
bombs netted him 10. CMU also had a 
balanced attack on the boards. Paul Hamer - 
ly led the rebounding with seven and also 
had three blocked shots.
CMU moved into high gear midway 
through the first half when Harvey gave the 
Tartans the lead to stay with a three-point 
play at 17-14. For the remainder of the 
half, the Tartans ran, and ran and ran some 
more.
In the last ten minutes of the first half 
CMU outscored the visitors 24-26 to bal­
loon their five point advantage to 13. Har­
vey, Costa, and Chambers evenly divided
the points as all three scored in flurries. 
The Tartans made few mistakes, forced 
several turnovers, and dominated the glass 
during the explosion that ended in a 49-36 
halftime lead.
Both teams came out gunning in the 
second half in a style quite similar to the 
NBA All-Star game. CMU and Case fired 
with deadly accuracy in the early going of 
the last 20 minutes.
Chambers, Harvey, and Harper provided 
the scoring punch to bring the Tartans 
within the century mark. A 144 spurt over 
the last four minutes was the final crushing 
blow to the Spartans.
Harper got the drive to 100 started
when he dropped in a shot off a fine lob 
pass from freshman Mariano DeFilippo. 
Then Harper and Costa converted three 
free throws to give the Tartans 93.
After that, DeFilippo took charge in 
the march, the 5’7” guard from Harrisburg 
threaded a pass through two Case defen­
ders to Pat Ward for an easy layup. Then 
he converted a layup and foul shot to give 
CMU a 98-75 lead.
CMU came up with a steal on Case’s 
next trip down the floor and DeFilippo 
was in the right place, ahead of the chasing 
pack, to drive in for the bunny with 1:40 
left to elevate the Tartans to the 100 pla­
teau.
Mark James added the finishing touches 
with two foul shots. Even though the 
scoreboard showed VISITORS-77 CMU-02, 
there was no doubt in the minds of the 
Skibo patrons of the outcome or who is 
really number one.
Case placed four scorers in double 
figures. Point guard Mark Termini led the 
Spartans with 21 points. He was backed 
by an 18 point, 11 rebound performance 
from Paul Shivers. Tom Gauthey and Fred 
Buse combined for 26 tallies.
Carnegie-Mellon can clinch the PAC
title this week with three conference 
games. The Tartans travel to Thiel tonight 
at 8:00 p.m. and Washington & Jefferson 
on Thursday night at 8:00 p.m. CMU 
closes out their regular season with a home 
encounter against Bethany on Saturday at 
2:00 p.m. Coach Maloney’s crew is near 
several season records and accomplish­
ments for the first time in the school’s 
history.
CMU (80) John Carroll (72)
Carnegie-Mellon’s All-American candi­
date George Harvey put on a sensational 
display of basketball talent as he scored a 
college career high 38 points to lead the
Tartans to an 80-72 victory over PAC foe 
John Carroll.
CMU, coming off a defeat at Geneva, 
were never behind as they dominated the 
game throughout. The Tartans scored in 
sports to build commanding leads.
The Tartans took an early 10-2 lead in 
the opening minutes of play with Harvey 
scoring six. It was evident that he was 
going to be on his top form.
CMLFs lead hovered around ten for 
much of the half until the visitors scored 
three quick hoops. Andy Krakowiak, a 
transfer student who played a fine game 
against the Tartans earlier in the year, hit 
from inside; Saul Cyvas connected and 
Dudley Murphy converted two free throws 
to bring the Blue Streaks to within four, 
28-24.
The Tartans came back quickly as 
Marty ‘The Enforcer” Costa sky hooked 
from five and Harvey poured in a couple 
more hoops to push CMlFs advantage up 
to ten again. The Tartans went into the 
locker room with a 40-30 lead and Harvey 
had 20 already.
Harvey picked up where he left off 
getting his first basket in the second half 
after only six seconds had ticked off the
clock. CMU played as a well-oiled machine 
that wasn’t going to let a loss at Geneva 
spoil their season goals.
John Carroll, however, never lost their 
spirit and made a run at the Tartans 
again midway in the final period. Murphy 
led the Cleveland school’s charge from a 
12 point deficit to four with 11 minutes 
to play.
Les Harper, who seems to always come 
up with the key plays at the right times, 
fired in two 15 foot jumpers within 20 
seconds to push the Tartan lead to a more 
comfortable, 56-48, level.
Coach Dave Maloney went to the four 
corners offense with about eight minutes 
remaining in hopes of forcing John Carroll 
to foul the Tartans. The strategy was per­
fect as CMU turned the charity stripe into 
their rest stop on the road to victory.
Tech scored 18 points from the foul 
line over the last 7:30 of the game. Harvey 
was perfect from the line for the evening 
with an amazing 14 for 14 effort. John 
Carroll couldn’t overcome the chasing and 
fouling and had to accept the 80-72 defeat.
Harvey commented after the game, “We 
all had to pick up the slack from missing 
Larry (DiCicco). Ralph (DeaBrunzzo) and I 
got some more scoring and Greg (Cham­
bers) really hit the boards well.”
Besides Harvey’s outstanding offensive 
punch that was five points short of the 
school game scoring record (43) held by 
Bill Soffa, CMU got fine performances out 
of DeaBrunzzo and Chambers. DeaBrunzzo 
was hot from the field and handled the ball 
well in scoring 14 points. Chambers was a 
terror on the boards, pulling down a season 
high 13. He also showed his talents on the 
offensive end with 10 tallies.
Murphy led the Blue Streak attack with 
16. He was backed by Krakowiak’s 12 and 
Jim Skerl’s 10. Cyvas paced the tall visitors 
in rebounds with 10.
The win kept the Tartans’ PAC standing 
perfect at 10-0. Overall, CMU’s record 
moved to 15-3.
Geneva (71) CMU (66)
Carnegie-Mellon’s all-time school record 
of 12 consecutive wins was brought to a 
screeching halt by lightly regarded Geneva, 
71-66, in a game moved to Penn State- 
Beaver Gym due to the energy shortage. 
The Tartans, coming off their big victory 
at Hiram, could not get things together to 
pull off the victory.
Geneva broke a close contest open mid­
way in the second half. Down 54-52 with 
10:30 remaining in the game, the hosts 
outscored CMU 13-2 to move to an insur­
mountable lead.
Two major factors in the Tartans’ defeat 
were poor shooting and rebounding. CMU 
shot a pitiful 40.2% from the field, well 
below their season’s average. Tech was 
badly outrebounded by Geneva. The trio 
of Terry Wiley, Kevin Creaseman, and 
Mike Thorson combined to give Geneva 
continued on page 23
Greg Chambers (14) hits on 15 foot jumper in Tartan win over Case Western Reserve.
Girls Edged By Tough R.M.
by Gordon Morrison
SPOT THE BALL CONTEST 
Place an X where you believe the basketball to be in this shot from a recent girls' bnsketbell gem« 
and send it in to the TARTAN SPORTS EDITOR. Prizes & winner to be announced
Greg "G.C." Chambers shown here versus Hiram 
has finally begun delivering, after being hampered 
by an early season ankle injury.
The Carnegie -Mellon University Wo­
men’s basketball team lost to Robert Mor­
ris College 61-53 in overtime. The game 
was played in the icy John Jay Hall, home 
of the Robert Morris Colonials. The heat 
was turned off in the gymn, and the 
numbness of hands and feet caused some 
problems with the mishandling of the ball 
and numerous turnovers.
The CMU team played their best game 
of the season only to lose. CMU was win­
ning at halftime by the score of 26-24.
continued on page 22

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22 - TARTAN - February 22, 1977
y'/''
Family brewers for more than 200years.
Girls Lose In Overtime
continued from page 21
Robert Morris was able to tie the score 
early in the game. At that point, CMU used 
a full court press in an attempt to cause 
some turnovers. The press accomplished 
the purpose by causing Robert Morris to 
pass the ball around more than they were 
used to and then causing them to throw 
the ball away. After one of the many turn­
overs by Robert Morris during the CMU 
press, the CMU team was able to score a 
basket to cut the margin to 4 points at 50- 
46 with only 1:03 left on the clock. On 
the next possession by RMC, the CMU 
press could not cause a turnover but did 
cause the Colonials to use up 20 of the 30 
seconds allowed on the 30 second clock 
just to get the ball out of their own end 
of the court( women’s rules use a 30 
second clock to get off a shot and do not 
use the rule of 10 seconds to get the ball 
across the midcourt line). Robert Morris 
could not penetrate a suddenly tough CMU 
defense and did not get off a shot in the 
alloted 30 seconds. Now with 0:33 left, the 
hopes of pulling out a tie were still slim 
since CMU was still 2 baskets behind. CMU 
was able to come within 2 at 5048 with 
0:18 left. Then the CMU press became a
little too aggressive and was called for a 
foul. With only 13 seconds left in the 
game, Robert Morris still had the ball. 
After the inbounds pass, CMU stole the 
ball. After the inbounds pass, CMU stole 
ball. Driana Davies drove toward the basket 
and with the Robert Morris defense 
frantically trying to stop her, she passed to 
Karen Azinger at the foul line, who made 
the shot to tie the game at 50 all with only 
4 seconds left. Robert Morris could not 
even get a shot off and the game ended at 
50-50. When the overtime began, Robert 
scored six straight points in the first two 
minutes of the overtime. Six points down 
with only three minutes remaining sounded 
almost like the same spot they were in 
during the regular game. However, two 
miracle comebacks in one game are just 
too much to ask for. CMU was able to 
start a rally to push within four, but Ro­
bert Morris was able to hold onto the lead 
and win 61-53. Wednesday’s rematch with 
Robert Morris here at CMU at 5:00 should 
prove to be interesting.
The leading CMU scorers were Karen 
Azinger with 20 points (55.6% from the 
field), Driana Davies with 12 points, Ingrid
Goedicke with 10 points, Laura Cooper 
with 6 points, and Terry Preskar with 5 
points. The team hit 26 of 75 shots for 
34.7% from the field for their best 
shooting for thé season. The leading CMU 
rebounders were Driana Davies with 12 
rebounds, Laura Cooper with 9 rebounds, 
and Ingrid Goedicke with 6 rebounds.
by Bill Oakley
The CMU hockey Tartans posted a 4-2 
win over Slippery Rock last Sunday at 
Meadville. The win boosted the Tartans 
record to 3-3-1, and left them tied for 
second in the Western Pennsylvania 
Hockey League with 7 points.
The first period of the game was domi­
nated by the Tartans as they jumped to a 
quick 2-0 lead. Rick Smith drew first blood 
with a 20 footer that beat Slippery Rock 
goalie Swansey. The assists went to Mark 
Jonnatti and Tom Grimm. Bill Oakley 
scored the Tartans second goal on a slap 
shot from the point, on passes from Jon­
natti and Grimm.
The second stanza was much closer, as
????????????
ANNOUNCEMENT !!
For all students interested in CMU bas­
ketball and bored over the holiday week­
end coming up, the Tartans will close out 
their regular season on Saturday, Feb. 26 
against Bethany. If you can spare an hour
SR came back to tie the game 2-2, only to 
have the Tartans take the lead once again. 
Biagetti scored SR’s first goal at 9:19, and 
Miller scored their second 46 seconds later 
to knot the score. The deadlock lasted 
until 1:46 of the period when Bill Oakley 
scored his second of the game to give the ^ 
Tartans the lead for good. Ken Trumpfeller 
and Bob Hon picked up the assists. Ken 
Trumpfeller picked up an insurance goal 
for CMU in the third period, with the assist 
going to Jack Arturo.
The Tartans next game is next Thursday 
night against Penn State—McKeesport, and 
their next home games are March 12 and 
13, against Penn State—McKeesport and . 
Cleveland State, respectively, at the Civic 
Arena.
Pucksters Slap The Puck
JOT THIS DOWN
Call Pool—Entries due Feb. 22nd. Games 
will be played at Skibo.
Foul Shooting— Entries due March 2nd. 
There will be both individual and team 
competition. Jay Harper, two time 
champ will enter after missing last year’s 
tourney.
Co-Rec Table Tennis—Entries due March 2.
Team Badminton and Slowpitch Softball—
Rosters due March 8th.
Girls' Basketball— Feb. 22nd 
7:30 p.m.—Derelicts vs. Frogs 
8:30 p.m.—Black Heat vs. Kumquats
Co-Rec Badminton— Co-rec badminton 
entries will be accepted until March 4. 
Co-rec badminton requires but one guy 
and one gal per team.
Swimming— I.M. Swim meet Wed. March 
9th, 4:30 in the pool. Everyone wel­
come. Post Entry—sign up when you get 
there.
Major League Standings
TeamWonLost
Supa-Stars70
ATO-A61
Reality62
Katoosh53
GSIA43
Pride43
Celtics34
PIKA-A23
Nerd Knockers35
High Flying Kites35
Beta-A36
SAE-A15
ZBT05
Major League Scoring Leaders
NameAverage
1)Binnie (Pika)17.2
2)Samsa (Beta)16.2
3)Coates (Pride)16.2
4)Santowski (GSIA)15.0
5)White (SUPA-Stars)15.0
6)Schwartz (Katoosh)14.6
7)Duquette (ATO-A)12.5
8)Dillen (Nerd Knockers)12.3
9)Chandler (SAE-A)12.1
10) Massaro (ATO-A)12.0
11) Hopkins (Pride )12.0
12) Parker (Celtics)12.0
THt STROH MEWERY COM#ANY, DETROIT. MICHIGAN ,C> »*7*

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1977 — TARTAN — Page 23
Touche'! Tartans Undefeated In League
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie -Mellon University fencing 
team opened their foil season (not in­
cluding their pre-season match with Cleve­
land State) with Penn State University 
(Fayette Campus). The scoring format that 
will be used this year is how CMU “A” 
does against the other “A” team, CMU “B” 
against “B” with men against men and the 
women agianst women. The match with 
Fayette ended in a 2-2 tie. The first tie­
breaker used is the number of bouts won. 
The final bout score was 37-37. The second 
method used for breaking ties is the 
touches against each team. The final score 
was Fayette 266, CMU 265 with the lowest 
score winning. Individual records (in bouts) 
are:
E.J. Williams 3-0 
Victor Brennan 4-1 
Gary Frankston 3-1 
Peter Bond 3-1 
Paul Schoff 3-1 
John McGraw 3-2 
Brian Pierson 2-3 
Charles Forsyth 2-4 
Avrum Scheiner 1 -3 
Matt Bevan 0-6 
Jenny Willis 3-3 
Liza Hayes 3-3 
Shari Belafonte 3-4 
Gillian Holdridge 2-5
continued from page 21
total domination of the boards, 55-38. 
Wiley led the assault on the glass with 15 
and Creaseman and Thorson combined for 
25 other caroms.
Creaseman led the balanced scoring 
attack with 22 points. He was aided by 21 
points from Terry Hubbard and 15 from 
Wiley.
The Tartans, missing Larry DiCicco due 
to an ankle injury, were hard pressed to
generate an offensive punch. George Har­
vey, who is ranked 19th in the nation in 
scoring for NCAA Division III schools, 
followed up his outstanding performance 
at Hiram with another game-high scorers 
honor. The junior AMS student fired for 
24 tallies and also grabbed 10 rebounds 
from his guard position.
Ralph DeaBrunzzo hit for 10 points in 
a starting role. Marty Costa, who has been
strong on the boards the second half of the 
season, led CMU’s rebounding with 12.
The Tartans outgoaled Geneva 33-29, 
but the Golden Tornadoes converted 13 of 
18 from the foul line while CMU was 0-2 
from the charity stripe.
The loss dropped the Tartans’ record to 
14-3. However, their league leading stand­
ing in the PAC remained at 9-0 as Geneva 
was a non-conference foe
John Carroll 
Pts.Reb.Assists
Rehmer642
Murphy1602
Krakowiak1293
Skerl1030
Cyvas8101
Butkus210
Kehoe010
Kemme000
Markushic231
Kelly810
English211
Wallis622
Deramo001
723513
We’re a Quiet Company
>1
Which, Not Incidentally, Has Been a Leader in Systems Engineering for Over a Quarter Century.
VITRO is not exactly a household name, but for 
the last 28 years we’ve been a leader in using 
state-of-the-art engineering and innovative 
technical applications to solve problems 
concerning the nation’s defensive posture. We 
offer continuing opportunity for challenge and 
professional growth in the fields of electrical 
and mechanical engineering, physics, math and 
computer science.
Find Out More About Us.
WE’LL BE ON CAMPUS reb. 23
Check with your placement office for additional details.
AUTOMATION INDUSTRIES INC.VITRO LABORATORIES DIVISION
14000 Georgia Avenue 
Silver Spring, Maryland 20910
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
ChemicalEngineering
Chemistry
National Starch and Chemical Corporation, 
one of the fastest growing “specialty chemi­
cals” companies and a recognized leader in 
its field, has unique opportunities offering ex­
ceptional career potential for Spring graduates 
majoring in the above.
Please visit our Representative 
on March 10
If unable to attend please send your resume to 
Richard Ranieri, Coordinator, Employment/Training
STARCH AND CHEMICAL CORPORATION
10 Finderne Avenue 
Bridgewater, New Jersey 08807
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Harvey
DeaBrunzzo
Harper
Chambers
Costa
DeFilippo
Hamerly
Hufnagel
Ward
Underhill
CMU
Pts.Reb.Assists
3846
1414
880
10130
820
000
010
230
000
000
803210
Geneva
Hubbard
Wiley
Creaseman
Kelly
Thorson
Louco
Soule
CMU
Chambers
DeaBrunzzo
Harvey
Harper
Costa
DeFilippo
Ward
Hufnagel
Hamerly
Pts.
21
15
22
8
5 
0 
0
71
Pts.
2
10
24
8
8
4
2
2
6
66
Reb.
5
15
13
7
12
1
0
53
Reb.
4
5 
10
4
12
0
2
0
1
38
Case
Pts.Reb.Assists
Termini2124
Gauthey1443
Buse1254
Shivers18111
Wilson211
Gilman010
Kemper000
Grendel430
Wile020
Falinski000
Zimmerman000
Daugherty667
773520
CMU
Pts.Reb.Assists
Harvey2139
DeaBrunzzo1023
Harper1541
Chambers2354
Costa1652
Hamerly470
DeFilippo715
Hufnagel220
Ward200
James231
1023225
for tiie weekend.
per day plus 12C per mile
Monte Carlo or 
similar car
You pay for the gas and return car to any location listed. Available Friday noon ’til Monday noon. Or if you’re planning a trip over the Christmas-New Year holi­day. try National’s 6-day rate on a Nova or similar car for $119. You get 1.000 miles at no extra charge on this ONE-WAY rate. Bring the car back to Pittsburgh and there’s no mileage charge! You pay for gas. Rates are non-discountable and subject to change without notice. National also has 6 and 7-day rates on other car sizes. Call for reservations today:
4621 Forties Ava. (Oakland) 682-1444
550 Grant Straat 261-5500
Greater Pitaburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
*R«*a «uä|«ct to citano« without notte«.
National Car Rental

---------------------------------------------------

FOOD SERVICE 
HAS SOMETHING FOR EVERY BODY
THE GRILL: Fast food Si snacks 
every night ’till midnight 
BAKERY-DELI: Munchie food, 
eye-openers, and other craved 
cuisineKILTIE CAFE: Traditional meals 
in a warm atmosphere 
KRESGE DINING ROOM: 
relaxing luncheons for faculty
and staff
MOREWOOD: homey atmosphere
FEATURING IN MARCH:
Roving Barbershop Quartet Student Seafood Extravaganza (16 th)
New 3pt Entrees
Nutritional Awareness Program
10% Sale on Food Service Coupon Books
