THE TARTAN
CMU, union sign pact
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Fourteen and a half months of often bitter 
negotiating between Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity and Service Employees International 
Union (SEIU) Local 29 came to a close Thurs­
day, as members of the union voted four-to- 
one to accept the University’s latest contract 
proposal. SEIU represents 126 workers in 
Dining Services and Physical Plant.
University President Robert Mehrabian 
called Allegheny County Commissioner Tom 
Foerster “instrumental” in bringing both sides 
together. Foerster, one of the founders of the 
Three Rivers Labor/Management Council 
(TRLMC), introduced that organization into 
the negotiations as the two sides drifted apart.
“I think that this demonstrates to all that 
[the area] does have good labor relations,”
said Foerster. “It was really important that 
TRLMC succeed in this session, and I’m a 
firm believer in what occurred. My undying 
thanks go out to the union... and to Carnegie 
Mellon.”
Jack Yoedt, president of Local 29, said that 
the TRLMC’s intervention was the most im­
portant factor in guaranteeing that a fair 
contract was drafted. “The union didn’t get 
everything it wanted,” he said. “Likewise, 
the University didn’t get everything it 
wanted. The final contract was a compro­
mise.”
It was a compromise that didn’t completely 
satisfy all parties involved, however. “There 
are a few people who are still disgruntled,” 
said Lillian Moore, a baker and a member of 
the union’s negotiating team. “We just 
couldn’t get any more. We did the best we 
could.”
Yoedt said that several aspects distinguish 
this contract from the one that the union 
rejected a few" weeks ago. “First, there is no 
permanent two-tier wage rate,” he said. New 
workers will receive a starting salary lower 
than workers with more seniority, but they 
will have the opportunity to reach those higher 
rates over time.
In addition, workers at the lowest wage 
rate will not see their health care contribu­
tions increase over time, as workers at other 
wage rates will. Instead, costs will be frozen. 
The health care package for union workers is 
slightly more expensive than that of other 
staffers, but Yoedt said that more is paid into 
their pension plan, so “there is a balancing 
effect.” He said that the University also in­
cluded what he called “job security language” 
in this contract. Job classifications in Dining 
Please see UNION, page 4
Grads sweep Senate seats
Faux Shag attack.
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor
The THEARNCMU AU,NCuCNCU, HN niCoHsg, MUpg, aH,cUNaHEE tHMU AUHNSiUo 
a AiUURNTiDv &DpNU,N DuUi NTU TUHo DA H &HioaDHio AH&,CMCEU DA 
mTHeSCEEU yIJUHE. nDi MDiU CpADiMHNCDpr ,UU DSi ,NDisr dHtU l.
By JENNIFER FORBES
Tartan Copy Staff
This week Student Senate held 
its second attempt at fall elec­
tions. With a voter turnout of 
9.91 percent, the response was 
worse than the one to the elec­
tions that took place in Novem­
ber. All of the GSO-supported 
candidates won seats, except for 
one who had not paid his Activi­
ties Fee. The results of the elec­
tion are unofficial until Student 
Senate votes to accept them.
Jim Albert, Elections Board 
chair, felt the elections went well. 
“The turnout was as good as can 
be expected with the weather,” 
he said. As of Thursday evening, 
no complaints about election pro­
cedures had been filed with the 
Elections Board. “The elections 
were run cleanly,” said Albert.
Tim Mallo, president of GSO, 
posted a list of candidates that 
GSO supported. The ticket was 
mainly composed of graduate stu­
dents.
Lara Wolfson, a newly elected
H&SS Senator and former presi­
dent of GSO, was not surprised 
by the sweep of the graduate stu­
dents. “I expected that graduate 
students would feel strongly 
enough to go vote.”
Damian Johnston, an under­
graduate who ran in SCS, posted 
a list of undergraduates, hoping 
to counteract GSO’s write-in cam­
paign. “The graduate students 
did dominate the election due to 
the level of organization in their 
write-in campaign,” he said. “[We] 
weren’t really organized.”
The election results raise many 
questions. There has been dis­
cussion, primarily on b-boards, 
about separating Student Sen­
ate into a graduate student sen­
ate and an undergraduate sen­
ate, which could happen with the 
influx of graduate students on 
Senate. There are also questions 
about what percentage of the 
Graduate Student Activities Fee 
should go to GSO and what per­
centage should go to Senate. The 
issue may also come to a head 
Please see ELECTION, page 5
’resident vetoes 
grading resolution
, FRANK MICHELS
fartan Personnel Manager
On Thursday evening, Student Gov- 
irnment President David Wolpert ve­
toed a resolution from Student Senate 
that would allow Faculty Senate to 
implement plus and minus grading to 
all undergraduate students in the 
1994-95 academic year. The resolu­
tion, which came from Student Senate’s 
Academic Affairs committee (AA), 
passed Tuesday night by a vote of 14-
The resolution is a modified recom­
mendation to Faculty Senate that was 
tabled in November so more research 
could be done on the issue. The resolu­
tion would allow plus and minus grades 
from A- to D+ to be recorded on grade 
reports and transcripts.
Wolpert cited six reasons for vetoing 
the resolution in his statement posted 
on the assocs.student-senate bulletin 
board. Those reasons included student 
Objection and higher stress and aca­
demic pressure.
‘‘Passing this resolution sent a ter­
rible signal to the administration and 
Jo the students,” said Wolpert. ‘There 
mismatch between the students’
wants and Senate’s perception of what 
the students want, and this means that 
Senate is not listening to its constitu­
ents.”
“I talked to a large enough cross­
sample of people to give me a feel of 
what they think,” said Wolpert. “Most 
people didn’t have a very strong opin­
ion, but those that did have an opinion 
were vehemently opposed to [plus/mi­
nus grading]. Not one person that I 
spoke to supported it.”
Wolpert said that the students he 
talked with calculated a rough pro­
jected GPA with plus/minus grading. 
He said that they believed their GPA 
would be lowered and stress levels 
would be increased.
Another reason for vetoing the reso­
lution, according to Wolpert, was the 
lack of a “grandfather clause.” In 
Senate’s original resolution in Novem­
ber, plus/minus grading would have 
only affected new students in the next 
academic year; the most recent resolu­
tion would have applied to all under­
graduate students regardless of class.
Dawn Wallhausen, chair of AA, said 
that the changed resolution was passed 
unanimously by AA. “We left 
Please see PLUS/MINUS, page 5
DJ blasts ’RCT talk show
WRRK-FIVTs Quinn attacks CMU “feministas”
by JASON HEINLEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Senior Megan Dietz, sophomore 
Heather Arnet, and senior Kathy Jo 
Kramer, guests on Brock Hamlin’s 
WRCT talk show “Jitney Talk,” com­
mented on the Lorena Bobbitt trial, never 
imagining that their opinions would 
spark a firestorm of criticism on a main­
stream Pittsburgh radio station.
The next day, February 2, a “Jitney 
Talk” listener called WRRK-FM morn­
ing drive-time DJ Jim Quinn. Quinn, a 
political conservative, immediately ex­
pressed his radically different opinions 
on the subject, and issued an on-the-air 
challenge to the three women to debate 
him on his show.
Quinn later called the women 
“feministas” in an interview published 
in last Sunday’s Pittsburgh Post- Gazette.
Quinn says that his caller had indi­
cated that on the WRCT radio show, 
“there was much glee over the fact that 
Lorena Bobbitt had been let go.” Quinn 
never heard the actual broadcast and 
says that he “took the word of the caller” 
on what was actually said.
Dietz says that “the \jiay she [Lorena 
Bobbitt] was violent toward him [John 
Bobbitt] was pretty funny.”
“How can you not laugh when you
hear about some 
guy getting his 
wee-wee chopped 
off? It’s funny. I 
am not saying it’s 
right, but it’s 
funny,” she says.
Heather Arnet 
agrees with Dietz.
“I would say that 
we were making 
light of the situa­
tion,” says Arnet.
Quinn gives no 
indication of being 
amused by the cir­
cumstances of the 
attack, and adds,
“It really isn’t a 
male thing. I 
would be just as 
upset, maybe 
more, if some man 
had sexually mu­
tilated a female.
“I don’t think 
there’s anything that justifies that, and 
if you believe that that type of behavior 
is justified,” he says, “then you are not 
thinking with your brain, you are think­
ing with your emotions.”
Arnet agrees with Quinn in this case, 
that violence is not the solution to most
hHNTs KD hiHMUi Hpo 
MDipCpt kK KCM GSCpp
Jennifer Urso/Tartan Photo Co-Editor 
QUtHp kCUNf HiU NTU DaWU&N DA LPPhRnQ 
g, viHNT.
problems. She says, “The feminist move­
ment has always been a non-violent 
movement.”
“Culturally, John Bobbitt is like a 
modern day Jesus, and he is suffering 
for the sins of all men,” Dietz says.
Please see DJ, page 4
Brockett Home/Tartan Calendar Editor and Ramsey Hong/Tartan Art Co-Editor 
Inside FTU ,dU&CHE bHEUpNCpUg, kHs bD2 1DdSEE HddUHi, Dp dHtU 05-.
Classifieds...........................11
Comics................................L6 • Celebrate Black History Month
Diversions.....................Lll all through February.
Features..........................LI See page LI
Forum....................................6
Sports....................................9 • It’s been an up and down
Calendar........................LI3 week for men’s hoops.
Vox Populi.....................LI 4 See page 9
• Email lacks that “personal 
touch,” says columnist.
See page 7
• Sweeney Todd is Stephen 
Sondheim’s gruesome delight.
See page Lll
SDC voting on AT&T money
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Staffwriter
The Student Dormitory Coun­
cil (SDC) has scheduled a vote 
for Wednesday on the amend­
ment made at last week’s meet­
ing. The amendment is a pro­
posed allocation of the money 
received from the AT&T ACUS 
long-distance service after the 
company accidentally over­
charged students.
Last semester, Matt White, a 
computer science sophomore 
and SDC Film Committee chair, 
made a motion to allocate a por­
tion of the money for a new 
35mm projector for Doherty Hall 
2210. Last week, SDC put to­
gether a formal amendment to
decide how to allocate the money. 
“We motioned for a clean bill,” 
said Tom LaMonica, SDC public 
relations chair and a civil engi­
neering junior. “We didn’t want 
people to see this as a package 
deal.”
After the conversation was 
over, an amendment was com­
pleted where $23,000 was allo­
cated for the projector and for 
speakers that will surround the 
lecture hall. Additional money 
was allocated for recreational 
equipment such as pool tables, 
ping pong tables, televisions 
and VCRs, andforprogramming 
events. SDC has tabled the 
amendment to allow for addi­
tional feedback. The official vote 
is scheduled to take place next
week.
In order to see what the stu­
dent body felt about this issue, 
SDC released a survey that 
asked for students’ opinions. 
The response to the survey was 
poor, a mere 2.8 percent re­
sponse. It did find that an over­
whelming number of people 
supported the idea. Other sur­
veys showed similar results.
During the 1991-92 school 
year, the AT&T ACUSlongdis- 
tance service promised an eight 
percent discount on the phone 
bill. The companyjustgave stu­
dents a five percent discount. 
AT&T made the discovery over 
the summer. “We didn’t know 
who the money belonged to,” 
Please see SDC, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

6FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-
MW/ 1IWÍ'''«sS¡50r 'Sr ’"»vTHIS JUST IN...
Doctors endorse single 
payer health care plan
' WASHINGTON, February 11 (DJ) 
•— The American College of Surgeons 
stunned themedical and health-policy 
world by endorsing a national “single- 
payer” health system for the U.S., The 
Wall Street Journal reported.
At a Capitol Hill hearing, David 
Murray, chairman of the college’s 
hoard of regents, said his 60,000-mem- 
ber association has decided to support 
the concept of a single-payer system, 
in which the government would con­
trol medical fees and pay medical bills 
with taxpayer funds.
That a mainstream group of high- 
priced medical specialists would take 
such a position has been considered 
almost unimaginable. Murray said a 
single-payer system is attractive to 
surgeons because it would preserve 
patients’ rights to choose their physi­
cians, reduce bureaucracy more than 
any other health-reform proposal, and 
best foster the autonomy of physi­
cians to make their own decisions.
The White House reacted with en­
couragement to the surgeons’ stance
— partly because a single-payer plan 
would guarantee health coverage for 
all Americans.
“We're heartened that they’ve signed 
on to the President’s goal of universal 
coverage,” said Jeff Eller, a White 
House spokesman. “While we believe 
the guarantee should be for private 
insurance, we share many ofthe goals 
of single-payer advocates, like univer­
sal coverage, cost control and admin­
istrative simplification. We think that 
this endorsement signals that 
America’s front-line providers agree 
that we have a health-care crisis and
they are looking for a comprehensive 
solution.”
The college’s endorsement came after 
Rep. Jim McDermott (D., Wash.), the 
leading sponsor of a single-payer bill in 
Congress, made a presentation to the 
College of Surgeons’ board last week.
“I’ll take the surgeons over the 
Roundtable anytime,” McDermott said 
yesterday. He was referring to the Busi­
ness Roundtable's vote last week to sup­
port a market-based health-reform pro­
posal sponsored by Rep. Jim Cooper (D., 
Tenn.). Under health-care reform pro­
posals other than the single-payer plan, 
he added, “all the surgeons can see is the 
insurance companies being given im­
mense power to interfere with the phy­
sician-patient relationship.”
But while the surgeons’ group said it 
supports the single-payer concept, it 
made clear that it isn’t endorsing any 
specific bill, including McDermott’s.
McDermott, who is a psychiatrist, has 
been trying to sell Ms plan to doctors by 
arguing that it would give them more 
freedom to practice their profession be­
cause it would eliminate insurers’ over­
sight. Among groups he has visited are 
the AMA and the American College of 
Physicians, the nation’s second-largest 
medical group.
In the wake ofthe surgeons’announce­
ment yesterday, the AMA, the largest 
U.S. doctors’ group, blasted the single­
payer concept. The AMA’s president­
elect, RobertMcAfee, saida single-payer 
system would take “medical decisions 
out of the hands of doctors and their 
patients, and give that power to faceless 
government bureaucrats and bottom- 
line-minded M.B.A.s.”
/HioCpt ,cHNCpt HN yEsMdC&,
LILLEHAMMER, Norway, Febru­
ary 13 — After receiving pressure 
from other athletes who feared that 
the attack on Nancy Kerrigan would 
overshadow all other events at the 
Winter Olympics, the USOC agreed 
to let Tonya Harding participate. 
Harding, in return, dropped a $25 
million lawsuit against the USOC.
Harding is still under a criminal 
investigation in Portland. However, 
USOC spokesperson Mike Moran 
said that he did not believe arrest 
warranted a reason for stripping an 
athlete of her medal. He said that as
a member of the Olympic team, Harding 
will receive all of the support and ser­
vices of any other U.S. athlete.
With concern over the practice ses­
sions scheduled to place Harding and 
Kerrigan in the rink together, Moran is 
looking into arrangements for Harding 
to practice at a different training site.
Michelle Kwan, the first alternate, 
has been training at that site for a few 
days. Flown to Norway in the event that 
Harding was removed from the team, 
circumstances now seem to dictate that 
Kwan will have to settle for being a 
spectator.
Court rules in favor of CBS
WASHINGTON, February 10 (DJ)
— The Wall Street Journal reported 
that Supreme Court Justice Harry 
Blackmun cleared the way for CBS 
News to broadcast a report that in­
cludes hidden-camera videotape made 
in a South Dakota meat packing plant.
The report, describing allegations of 
unsanitary conditions at the Federal 
Beef Processors Inc. plant in Rapid 
City, S.D., was scheduled to be shown 
last night on CBS-TV’s “48 Hours.”
Blackmun, in response to an emer­
gency filing by CBS, set aside a ruling 
by a South Dakota state judge who 
prohibited the network from using the 
hidden-camera material. The state 
judge based his unusual order on Fed­
eral Beefs contention that the video 
would disclose company trade secrets, 
hurt its reputation and damage the 
local economy. Stressing Federal Beefs 
determination to exclude outsiders 
from its facility, the judge said, “There 
is no First Amendment interest pro­
tecting the news media from calcu­
lated misdeeds.” The tape had been 
made by a Federal Beef employee who 
cooperated with CBS.
The South Dakota Supreme Court 
on Tuesday declined to set aside the 
judge’s ruling, prompting CBS to ap­
peal to Blackmun, who handles emer­
gency matters arising in the federal 
jurisdiction that includes South Da­
kota.
Blackmun’s opinion reiterated that 
pre-emptive bans of broadcasts or pub­
lications are “particularly disfavored” 
under the Supreme Court’s interpre­
tation of the constitutional protection 
of the press and free speech.Congress aids quake victims
WASHINGTON, February 11 (DJ)
— House and Senate bargainers 
reached agreement on a compromise 
$8.6 billion package of aid for victims 
of the Los Angeles earthquake.
As a snowstorm buffeted the capital, 
lawmakers and aides worked out mi­
nor differences over the legislation in 
a session that took less than three 
hours. The House and Senate pre­
pared to approve the bill and ship it to 
President Clinton for his signature by 
the evening.
After two days of debate that cen­
tered largely on deficit concerns, the 
Senate approved $8.6 billion in grants 
and loans last night for victims of the 
deadly Jan. 17 quake. The vote was 
85-10.
The House passed its bill last week, 
and lawmakers for the two houses
arranged a mid-morning meeting to try 
and work out differences in time to ac­
commodate members of Congress eager 
to begin a 10-day midwinter break.
The quake has been blamed for 61 
deaths and property damage estimated 
at $20 billion. It also left tens of thou­
sands homeless.
Fifty-three Democrats and 32 Repub­
licans voted for the measure. Eight Re­
publicans opposed, as did Wisconsin 
Democrats Herb Kohl and Russell 
Feingold.
Overall, the Senate bill calls for spend­
ing of $11 billion and includes $1.2 bil­
lion for the Pentagon, $685 million to 
continue cleanup from last summer’s 
floods and $315 million to rebuild a San 
Francisco freeway damaged in a 1989 
earthquake, among other items. Low- 
income residents of states hardest hit by 
the winter cold would receive $300 mil­
lion in aid.
To offset some of the costs, the bill 
includes $3.4 billion in cuts elsewhere in 
the budget.
The House voted for $250 million less 
in flood relief money, although the 
Clinton administration now supports the 
higher figure. The House also called for 
$200 million in low-income heating as­
sistance, and a smaller, $2.56 billion 
package of spending cuts.
The issue of offsetting cuts is likely to 
emerge as a sticky issue in the House- 
Senate talks, and it consumed much of 
the Senate debate as well as House ac­
tion on the bill.
Legal files don’t implicate Clinton
WASHINGTON, February 11 (DJ) — 
The secret Park Police report on the 
suicide of deputy White House counsel 
Vincent Foster doesn’t mention 
Whitewater Development Corp., the 
Clintons’ failed Arkansas real estate 
deal, a police official said.
“Nothing in there talks about 
Whitewater,” said Park Police Maj. Rob­
ert Hines. “No one we interviewed men­
tioned it.”
The Park Police interviewed Foster’s 
family and friends and concluded that 
he was depressed about his White House 
work. At the time of Foster’s suicide July 
20, Whitewater was not of major public 
interest.
Subsequently, it was learned that some 
Whitewater files found in Foster’s office 
were transferred by White House Coun­
sel Bernard Nussbaum to the Clintons’ 
personal attorney without being shown 
to Park Police investigators.
The files have since been turned over 
to the Justice Department, and special 
counsel Robert Fiske has been named to 
look into the Clintons’ financial dealings 
with Whitewater and with the failed 
Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan in
Arkansas. Fiske also is reviewi-; 
Foster’s death and the subsequent ha>. 
dling of his papers.
Foster had prepared delinquent {> 
returns for the Whitewater partners^ 
and delivered them last June to a lawj: 
for the Clintons’ onetime partner in 
deal, James McDougal, who also is 
former owner of Madison Guaranty,
Release of the Park Police files 
Foster under the Freedom of Inform; 
tion Act is awaiting a review by Fiske .; 
determine whether disclosure wou- 
hinder his investigation.
Ford expands in Japanese marke
TOKYO, February 11 (DJ) — At 
time of unprecedented opportunity fe 
U.S. car makers in Japan, Ford Mots 
Co. is pulling out all the stops. The Wa! 
Street Journal reported that America1 
number two auto maker is blitzii; 
Japan’s consumers with a massive no 
ad campaign, touting “My First Ford 
Soon, Ford will market right-hand drir 
cars to match the Japanese standard 
And, in the most brazen statement ofifc 
presence, Ford is putting its own nan- 
on a Japanese dealer network —¦ a firä 
for a U.S. car maker.
“Now is a good time for the new invad 
ers to attack the market — when thos 
Japanese auto-industry giants are seem­
ing to lose their direction and confi­
dence,” says Konen Suzuki, a forma 
Toyota Motor Corp. managing directoi 
who is president of Ford’s Japan unit.
This year Suzuki plans to triple Japa 
nese sales of Fords made overseas,
15,000 vehicles. By the end of the de­
cade, he envisions “drastic” expansion o 
Japan’s Ford dealerships.
Ford’s Japan push is well-timed 
Detroit’s auto makers are suddenly out­
performing their Japanese competitors 
financially, lending the Big Three new 
credibility while domestic makers 
stumble. Recent U.S. models are getting 
glowing press coverage. Currency trends 
also are helping the Americans 
recessionary Japan. Ford says it has cut 
prices 25 percent since 1989. And when 
Chrysler Corp. cut prices on its Jeep 
Cherokee, sales almost tripled in Japan, 
demonstrating that Japanese consum­
ers do indeed have an appetite for for­
eign products.
The marketing drive also comes 
time when U.S. officials are digging in 
their heels in trade talks to open the 
Japanese market yet further to Ameri­
can goods.
News brief courtesy 
Dow Jones
Layout by 
Erie J. Salzman
Celebrate Tradition W"h a Balfour 
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime when they're 
preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. Sports, academics, 
degrees, years of graduation, and custom school designs 
can all be captured in your Balfour Class Ring... a 
tradition of excellence since 1931!
Monday...................................February 14
Tuesday...................................February 15
Baker Hall
10am - 3pm 
$35 deposit
Balfour*No one remembers in so many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-$
Anchors a weigh...
CMU renovates Naval Center
By JASON TOGYER
fartan News Editor
Work on the former Naval Reserve 
Center on Forbes Avenue is progressing 
rapidly. “We’re moving like gangbus- 
[ers,” says Ed Hydzik, project manager. 
When renovations are complete, the 
juilding will house 27 student organiza- 
;ions, the Carnegie Mellon Action 
Project, the Student Activities office, 
Campus Police, and the Post Office. The 
3uilding will also contain a number of 
general purpose meeting rooms and a 
arge assembly area.
The work is underway in order to house 
unctions that will be displaced when 
all photos Samuel Greenfield/TartanManaging Editor
Gary Weinheimer of Hanlon Electric works on wiring in 
room of the former Naval Reserve Center.
Skibo Hall is demolished after Com­
mencement to make way for the $41 
million University Center. The renova­
tion process is expected to take 60 days, 
and began February 2, when the Uni­
versity completed its $2.4 million pur­
chase of the building from the Depart­
ment of Defense. The process was slowed 
by the DoD’s removal of hazardous ma­
terials like asbestos and lead pellets 
from the building.
“For a temporary space, and given the 
fact that the alternative might have 
been nothing, we’re very, very fortu­
nate,” says Bonnie Gorman, assistant 
director of student activities. “It’s a great 
building.”
“Knowing colleagues who 
have been through this, 
we’re very fortunate to have 
that building,” says Dean of 
Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy.
Loss of Ballroom
“Where we are lacking is 
in two areas,” Murphy says. 
“One is the [Skibo] Ballroom. 
There is no other space on 
this campus that can accom­
modate 600 people.” The 
Naval Center contains a 
large assembly room called 
the Drill Deck, which has a 
maximum occupancy of 200 
people. “Size-wise, it’s be­
tween the Wherrett Room 
and the Ballroom,” he says.
Murphy says that the 
University will use that 
room for some events and 
will seek out other spaces on 
and near campus. “There 
will be some expanded use 
of the Gymnasium, as well 
as tents on the Cut at cer­
tain times of the year,” says
If
'ffe.
Assistant Director of Student Affairs Bonnie Gorman and Howard Meisnerof ABTech 
inspect the space slated for storage use by AB.
Murphy. “There may be some activities 
that are hosted off-campus.”
Gorman says that the Drill Deck will 
play host to some of the smaller func­
tions currently held in the Ballroom or 
Wherrett Room. “I would think tft&t the 
summer Job Fair could probably go in 
there,” she said. “And certainly some of 
the lectures.”
“I think we’ll see the Drill Deck packed 
all the time with activity,” says Murphy.
Increased use of Highlander
The second area that will be adversely 
affected when Skibo comes down is Din­
ing Services. “We’re losing the Faculty 
Dining Room and Kiltie Court,” Murphy 
says, “but we’re gaining the Morewood 
Cafeteria.” The dining' facilities in 
Morewood Gardens will reopen when 
Skibo closes. Murphy says that the Uni­
versity hopes that more people will use 
the Highlander Café next year.
“Dining seating is an issue,” he says. 
“People will have to adjust their sched­
ules a little, but we anticipate that people 
will make these adjustments. They will 
have to manage their peak times.”
The three-story Naval Center will have 
wheelchair access from all levels. “Each 
floor will be accessible from the outside 
by wheelchair,” says University Archi­
tect Paul Tellers. Tellers says that this 
was a compromise worked out since the 
building does not have an elevator, and 
the cost of installing one for a temporary 
renovation was deemed prohibitive.
“On each floor, at least one bathroom 
is unisex and ADA [Americans with Dis­
abilities Act] accessible,” says Kevin 
Lamb, vice president for Planning and 
Budget.
Won’t house all functions
Not every function currently housed 
in Skibo is moving to the Naval Center, 
however. No suitable space is available 
for WRCT, and the temporary locations 
of the GSO Coffeehouse (the Tilted 
Square), the Art Store, and Entropy are 
unclear.
Lamb says that University Printing 
and Publications’ presses and binding 
facilities may move from their current 
home in Building F, behind the Naval 
Center, to the newly-acquired former 
Appliance Store warehouse, near CMU 
Central Receiving in East Liberty. If 
that happens, then the Tilted Square 
and Entropy may be housed in that 
building. Nothing is certain at this time, 
however.
“It’s unlikely that the Art Store or 
Entropy will be in the Naval Reserve 
Center,” says Murphy. “But they we will, 
be relocated on campus. We hope to have
a decision by the end of 
the month on the Art 
Store, the Coffeehouse, 
and WRCT.”
Another problem will 
be the temporary loss of 
100 parking spaces in the 
Skibo parking lot, and 
the permanent loss of a 
number of spaces there 
due to the construction 
of the University Cen­
ter. Only about 10 to 15 
spaces are available at 
the Naval Center.
“It was a concern of the 
City Planning Commission,” says Tell­
ers. “As a result, we’ve completed a de­
tailed traffic and parking study. Our 
check of space shows that by repaving 
the Morewood lot we gained 40 to 50 
spaces.”
Tellers says that he sees some of the 
people who currently bring their cars to 
campus makingincreaseduse of Shuttle/ 
Escort.
In addition, the traffic study revealed 
a slight parking surplus of about 50 
spaces around campus, he says. “The 
loss of Skibo does put us into a little bit 
of a deficit. [But] We do have City Plan­
ning Commission approval [to tear down 
Skibo],” he says.
The demolition process will begin in 
May, following Commencement. Lamb 
says that the first few days will involve 
moving people out of the building. Then, 
asbestos will be removed from the build­
ing, a process expected to take at least 
five weeks. Professional movers will be 
hired to move people out.
“You have to pack your own boxes, 
though,” laughs Hydzik.
“Some organizations that don’t have 
space currently will have space [in the 
Naval Center],” says Murphy. Unfortu­
nately, some organizations will be forced 
to share large offices that are split by 
fabric partitions.
“Shared office space surely has its 
downside, but organizations will have 
space,” says Murphy. He says that there 
is also more meeting space in the build­
ing, and that organizations will benefit 
from the proximity of their offices ne arby. 
“Square footage for meeting is going up,” 
he says. “Square footage for student 
organizations is going up. It’s the Ball­
room, Wherrett Room, and Grey Matter 
we’re losing.”
Gorman says that organizations shar­
ing office spaces will get locking cabi­
nets to store valuables in. In addition, a 
system similar to the key card system 
now in place will be used for organiza­
tions to get access to their rooms.
The University also owns the Simula­
tor building located near the Naval Cen-
Lee Wood of Huckestein Plumbing begins putting new 
holes in the floor of this room, the first step towards 
converting it into a restroom.
ter parking lot, which was used by the 
Navy to train reservists in distress situ­
ations. The Navy did not build another 
one at its new site, so Gorman says that 
they may negotiate to rent the building 
back from CMU.
Access from the Cut
The building’s location next to Forbes 
Avenue has raised some concerns about 
safety. Because main access to the build­
ing will be from the second floor of the 
building facing the Cut, the Forbes Av­
enue entrance is being de-emphasized. 
“We want the building to be secure and 
safe, but we also want there to be as 
much access as possible,” says Murphy. 
“The access from Forbes will be locked at 
night.”
Murphy also says that he’s not sure 
that the building will be open 24 hours.
Lamb says that Ftfrbes Avenue secu­
rity has become less of a concern since 
Campus Police will be moving into the 
building. “It becomes less of a burning 
issue the closer we are to having Secu­
rity in the building,” he says. “[It’s un­
clear what will happen] if they’re not 
there.”
‘The entrance may be closed at night,” 
says Gorman. “We’ll see how it goes.” 
Most of the renovations are intended 
to be temporary, and, in fact, many of 
the offices need only modifications such 
as data communications outlets in order 
to be ready for use. In some cases, more 
permanent construction is being done. 
The Carnegie Mellon Action Project will 
be receiving permanent space on the 
first floor, and more extensive repairs 
are being undertaken. In addition, some 
classrooms on the second floor are being 
redesigned and combined. There will be 
four large classrooms at one end of the 
second floor when the work is complete.
“The level of cooperation and involve­
ment in the process [by student organi­
zations] has been worthy of tribute,” 
says Murphy. “Most of the players in the 
individual organizations are well-aware, 
and it looks good.”
Carnegie Mellon 
Action ProjectInformation courtesy of the Office of 
Student Activities and the Office of 
Planning and Budget. Some information 
is speculative, and subject to change.
Computer Recycling 
Program - University Outreach
Catering
GROUND FLOORSECOND FLOOR

---------------------------------------------------

-FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-
Lock-up starts this month
Guards at Doherty, Wean don’t please some
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In their effort to increase security on 
campus, Campus Police will soon be 
locking the doors of Doherty and Wean 
Halls and placing guards who will check 
CMU IDs as students and staffmembers 
enter one entrance to each building build­
ing, between 12:30 and 6 am. The plan is 
expected to be implemented on Febru­
ary 28.
After meeting with several advisory 
boards and conducting surveys of foot 
traffic in the two buildings, Chief of 
Campus Police James LaPaglia is trying 
to find a way to make the academic 
buildings safe for their occupants late at 
night.
The plan would first repair the now 
unlockable exterior doors in Doherty 
Hall. Between the hours of 11 pm and 6 
am, the only entrance into the building 
will be from the door facing the Cut. A 
guard will be posted at that door and will 
check IDs of students entering the build­
ing.
“Wean Hall has proved to be problem­
atic,” said LaPaglia. Campus Police has 
been doing traffic surveys of Wean to 
find out which door would be the best so- 
called ‘after-hours door.’
The surveys found that there is heavy 
traffic from the first, fourth, and fifth 
floor entrances. On the first floor, traffic 
seems to be from people cutting through 
from the Oakland area, the parking lot 
of the Bureau of the Mines, and Smith 
Hall.
The fifth-floor traffic comes from stu­
dents using the \^ean 5419 computer 
cluster and ECE students. The fourth 
floor is frequented by people who are 
using the parking lots behind the build­
ings. Because of Wean’s heavy traffic, 
the building would stay open until 12:30 
am instead of 11 pm.
LaPaglia said that this is only a “tem­
porary measure.” If Campus Police and 
the community can come to a solution to 
the security question, the plan may soon 
be implemented in other buildings.
LaPaglia has made an effort to get 
reactions from the campus community 
now, before the plan goes into effect. 
“[Campus Police wants to] make sure 
we’re doing what is in the best interest of 
security and convenience,” he said.
Creating an inconvenience?
Some students and faculty already see 
the plan as an inconvenience. Computer 
Science and Psychology professor Bonnie 
John, whose office is in Wean, said that 
she is “very skeptical that this would be 
anything but an inconvenience.” She 
said that the survey conducted by the 
police was “crazy,” as they did not look at 
those doors not being considered to be 
guarded.
She also said that LaPaglia’s data is 
“very flawed.” Although Johns is con­
cerned about crime, and does at times 
feel uncomfortable in Wean, she doesn’t 
“understand the motivation for [the 
plan].”
Many students who work.in Doherty 
late at night also had reservations about 
the security measures. The freshman 
architecture studio and several art stu­
dios are in the basements and sub-base- 
ments of Doherty.
Christina Rail, a sophomore architec­
ture student, said, “As an architect you 
go in and out and back and forth at odd 
hours. The last thing you want to do is 
pull out your ID when it’s not going to do 
any good.”
LaPaglia says the measure is intended 
to keep outsiders out, but many stu­
dents using the building felt that if crime 
were to occur in the building, it would be 
done by someone with a CMU ID.
Freshman architect Brian Creany said 
“I don’t think [the plan] would be alto­
gether necessary.” The perceived lack of 
necessity of the measure seems to be the 
main problem that students and faculty 
have withit.
Most students said they feel safe on 
campus. Laquetta Carter, a freshman 
ECE major, said she “[felt] safe at night 
because the campus is well-lit.”
LaPaglia said “the crime problem is 
minimal... but there are some potential 
risks.” He said that safety is his first 
priority and there have been everything 
from surveys to arguments on bboards 
as to how to deal with the problem and 
what the problem is in the first place.
Many people nervous at night
Many female students don’t feel safe 
being in Doherty/Wean alone at night. 
Architecture major Heather Kim said, 
“One night I was in studio by myself and 
I felt very unsafe.” She said the measure 
“would not be an inconvenience,” and 
even suggested that if a security guard 
were to placed at Doherty, to do it closer 
to the architecture studio entrance.
That was echoed by art students. In 
the sub-basements of Doherty, the Art 
Department houses such things as 
graduate student studios, metal-, wood­
working, and printmaking studios.
Art major Melissa Haworth said “Even 
if there was security, I don’t think they’d 
get down to the basement.”
Sophomore art major Scott Morgan 
was told in class by his professors that “if 
you’re alone in the studio, to call Cam­
pus Police and let them know you’re 
there.”
The plan to lock Doherty/Wean is to 
go into effect on February 28 as a tempo­
rary measure. LaPaglia encourages feed­
back so that the measure will not create 
more problems than it is trying to solve.
Kappa alumna 
killed in crash
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Katherine Williams, a 1993 gradu­
ate of the University’s architecture 
program, was killed last Wednesday 
in an automobile accident on an snow- 
covered, two-lane highway near her 
hometown of Seattle, Washington.
Williams lost con­
trol of her car dur­
ing Wednesday 
morning’s rush- 
hour and slid into 
the opposite lane.
Her car was 
broadsided by an­
other, and she was 
killed instantly.
A member of 
Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority, 
she was remem­
bered by the sisters 
there as “classy and 
casual.”
“As a person, she 
was a very good 9ESMpH hHNTUiCpU 
friend and always 
fun to. be around,” said Lori Hay, a 
senior policy and management major.
Williams’ friends said that she was 
devoted to Kappa, to her work as an 
architect, and to philanthropy. “She 
gave a lot of time to her work and a lot 
of time to Kappa,” said Hay. “She 
worked for the Living at Home pro­
gram for two years in a row.”
The Living at Home program is 
aimed at providing community ser­
vice. Members of Greek organizations 
refurbish homes for families that can’t 
afford to. In addition, she was Kappa’s
social chair for one term.
“When she said something, her opin­
ion was taken in very high regard,” 
said Tracy Perneta, a senior double- 
majoring in professional and creative 
writing. “She was a very well-respected 
member of Kappa.”
“She had a very diverse personal­
ity,” said Perneta. “[But] she didn’t 
say a lot, and she 
never complained.” 
“As a person, she 
was a very good 
friend, and always 
fun to be around,” 
said Hay.
Williams’ love for 
her vocation was 
evident. “I can re­
member walking 
into her studio late 
at night, and see­
ing her bent ov­
er her drawing 
board,” said Hay.
Williams worked 
on designing a plan 
to redevelop the 
Hill District in 
Pittsburgh. “She was very moved by 
the conditions there,” she said.
“She was very upset that the project 
would only be completed on paper,” 
said Perneta.
Williams was engaged to be mar­
ried. Her family has asked that no 
flowers be sent. Instead, donations to 
the East Side Literacy Council, where 
she was a volunteer, are suggested. 
The Council’s address is 1805 136th 
Place N.E., Bellevue, Wash., 98005. A 
memorial service will be held Febru­
ary 19, at a location to be announced.
courtesy of Lori Hay 
LCEECHM,
CMU, Union settle dispute WRRK DJ attacks CMU talk show
UNION, from page 1
Services will be reduced from their current number of 16 to seven.
The contract will run for four years, effective from July of last year 
until July, 1997. “I think the most important issue here is that we 
have cost-sharing in the health care plan,” said Mehrabian. “So 
there is an incentive to try to keep health care costs down.
“What we ended up doing was protecting our lowest [pay] rate 
employees from aggressive increases in health care costs,” he said. 
Mehrabian said that the contract will result in “higher wages, good 
pay, and [guarantees that union workers] will pay their fair share of 
increases in health care costs, as do the rest of our workers.”
Yoedt praised the help of the TRLMC. “I have a vision of someday 
settling all contracts like this,” said Yoedt. “I think it’s a step in the 
right direction towards creating a healthy, literate, well-trained, 
and decent paid work force.”
“I’m happy that we were able to get together with a neutral party 
like TRLMC and Tom Foerster,” said Mehrabian. “This contract is 
the right thing for CMU. It’s the right thing for our family, which 
includes our workforce that’s unionized.”
“We finally came to a fair compromise after a lengthy dispute,” 
said James Bennett, a worker at Highlander Café and a member of 
the negotiating team. “We’re willing to move on and serve the 
campus community.”
DJ, from page 1
“[Many women] feel vindicated 
by the fact that Lorena Bobbit cut 
off her husband’s penis. John 
Bobbitt was a rapist, he was a 
wife batterer ... and I am not 
going to mourn that he felt that 
he, for a second, was the victim,” 
says Arnet.
“I don’t think that we should 
legalize revenge,” Quinn says. “If 
the feminists want to celebrate 
Lorena Bobbitt as their poster 
girl, go ahead, you can celebrate 
Lorena while they lead her off to 
Nuts-R-Us.”
Quinn believes that the cre­
ation of sexual harassment laws 
create a double standard for men 
and women which is particularly 
shown in the Bobbitt case. “I just 
think it’s strange that there are
sexual harassment laws that 
make prolonged looking a crime 
for which you can be charged, yet 
Lorena Bobbitt can cut a man’s 
penis off and walk away,” Quinn 
says.
Dietz says, “It was a good thing 
it [the attack on John Bobbitt] 
happened, culturally, because it 
made a lot of women feel better, 
and it might scare some men into 
acting right towards women.
“What a lot of women see ... 
men are a bunch of dirty bas­
tards,” she says. “Women don’t 
do nearly the same thing as guys.”
She believes that “feminism is 
about helping women realize that 
they nave power. Women have to 
feel strong enough to take it, not 
violently — but women just have 
to assume their place.”
“It seems that [lately], nothing 
that leading edge feminism has 
to say has anything to do with 
common sense,” says Quinn.
“It all has to do mostly with 
anger, it has to do with the rape 
crisis mentality, it has to do with 
women who have been brain­
washed by the rape crisis femi­
nists into believing that one out
of four women on college cam­
puses is actually going to be 
raped,” he says.
He says that his offer to debate 
the three talk-show guests still 
stands.
Dietz says that if she could talk 
to Jim Quinn, she’d say, “Mr. 
Quinn, get ready, because we’re 
coming on your show and you’re 
going to love us. You’re not going 
to be able to not love us, because 
we’re all funny, intelligent people 
and just because we disagree does 
not mean we have to hate each 
other.”
Get out of the cluster. 
It's time to cut the cord. 
Burn your suits.
Get a job.
GQRDIA N agft
CS, ECE and EE graduates: If you have not already signed up to 
interview with Gordian at the Career Center, please e-mail 
your resume immediately to recruit@gordian.com.
Info Session: March 2Interviews: March 3
20361 Irvine Ave / Santa Ana Heights, CA 
714 850 0205 / 714 850 0533 (fax)
f It's more fun than LOG.
ENGINEERS WANTED. 
CHALLENGED. REWARDED. RESPECTED.
Talented engineers have always received a warm welcome at Allen-Bradley.
That’s why we enjoy a 90-year tradition of innovative technology and manufacturing 
excellence. If you think you can enhance that tradition, we’d like to talk to you.
Allen-Bradley is a global leader in industrial automation. We produce more than 
350,000 products and variations - one of the broadest offerings of solid-state and 
electromechanical controls and automation systems in the world. Products that make 
our customers more competitive in the global marketplace.
We have over 12,500 employees, sales of more than $1.7 billion, 29 manufactur­
ing plants around the world and sales offices in over 70 countries.
All of that, together with being a Rockwell International company, enable us to 
offer you challenges and rewards few high growth companies can match.
Positions are available beginning in June 1994 for Associate Software 
Development Engineers with a BS in EE, CS, ME or Computer 
Engineering. Contact your placement office to schedule an interview or 
see our Recruiter at the Information 
Session.
Information Session 
Tues., February 22 
Skibo Hall 
Room 105-106 
6-8pm
a ALLEN-BRADLEY
A ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL COMPANY
WHERE YOU CAN,MAKETHINGSHAPPEN
iiniiHiifiud
An Affirmative Action'Equal Opportunity Employer
CI

---------------------------------------------------

FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-q
ELECTION, from page 1
this semester.
Johnston felt there is no need at this time to separate 
Senate. “The large percentage of graduate students makes 
genate a representative body for graduate students,” he said, 
jje felt the issue is more about money than politics.
VVolfson thought a more defined relationship between GSO 
and Senate would be the result of the elections. “[The rela­
tionship] needs to be written into the University structure.” 
tyolfson also felt that Senate will now be more open to 
graduate student concerns.
Albert hoped that the graduate students would be able to 
work with the current Senators to create a workable compro­
mise.
The debate about the relationship between GSO and Sen­
ate heated up last year after simmering for several semesters. 
The GSO leadership has long maintained that Senate is not 
representative of the graduate student population and that 
Senate should recognize GSO as the representative body of 
graduate students.
Wolfson maintained that graduate and undergraduate 
students have different needs and need a different type of 
representation to the administration than Senate. “It is
Grad write-ins sweep Senate elections SDC voting on funds
unreasonable to expect undergraduates to be interested in 
graduate student problems. Graduate students need a politi­
cal voice on campus,” said Wolfson.
“I hope that GSO will control a larger portion of the 
graduate Student Activities Fee,” Wolfson said, “but it 
shouldn’t be just about money. There needs to be a procedure 
to determine a fair method [for allocating money to GSO and 
Senate]. Graduate students want more money for depart­
ments and they want it from their Activities Fee,” said 
Wolfson. She has maintained that most graduate students do 
not get involved in Senate-funded activities because it can be 
detrimental to a graduate student’s academic career.
She feels that most graduate students’ main social activi­
ties are sponsored by GSO or their departments. She also 
thought that either GSO should help fund student organiza­
tions or graduate students should have to pay higher fees to 
participate in student organizations if GSO got more of 
Graduate Student Activities Fee.
“I think Tim Mallo will do a lot of positive things with 
GSO,” said Wolfson. “[He] will [try] to break down walls that 
come up between grads and undergrads.”
“Besides, there are issues that face both graduate and 
undergraduate students,” Johnston said.
Senate plus/minus grading resolution vetoed
PLUS/MINUS, from page 1
grandfathering out mostly because we 
felt is was unnecessary,” said Wall- 
hausen, “and it wouldn’t make that much 
ofa difference on an individual’s grades.”
Wallhausen said that a note would be 
placed on transcripts for current stu­
dents that will attend CMU next year, 
explaining the change in grading policy. 
Wallhausen also said that it would be 
too difficult to have different grading 
structures for the next few years if a 
grandfathering clause was included.
Another change thatWallhausen made 
to the resolution was a recommendation 
for graduate students. “We originally 
had a clause about graduate students,” 
said Wallhaunsen. “We removed that 
clause because AA felt departments 
should control their own grading.”
Wallhausen called the clause “extra­
neous” because she said that an attempt 
is being made such that all graduate 
departments will be using plus/minus 
grading.
Wallhausen said she was not offended 
by Wolpert’s veto. “At [Tuesday’s] meet­
ing, my main concern was that Student 
Senate should have a say in what they 
think the students’ grading structure 
should be,” Wallhausen said.
“I wanted people to know what was 
going on,” Wallhausen said. “I wanted 
Senators to go out and talk to their 
constituents about this.”
Wallhausen voted in favor of plus/ 
minus grading on Tuesday because the 
constituents that she talked to either 
did not care or were in favor of it, accord­
ing to Wallhausen. “I thought I did what 
was right,” she said.
James Landay, a graduate SOS Sena­
tor, said at Tuesday’s meeting that 
though he was personally in favor of the 
resolution, his undergraduate constitu­
ents felt very strongly against plus/mi­
nus grading. Landay voted against the 
resolution.
“All of the graduate students were for 
it, and all the undergraduates were 
against it,” said Landay. “Graduate stu­
dents are used to plus/minus grading 
from where they came from. It makes 
sense to them.”
Landay said that undergraduate SCS 
students felt that CMU is a very stress­
ful environment, and plus/minus grad­
ing would make things worse.
According to Arik Cohen, an under­
graduate SCS Senator, SCS students 
were six to one against plus/minus grad­
ing, and undergraduate students were 
ten to one against it.
“Generally, people are against change,” 
Landay said. “In reality, people won’t 
change it all that much.”
Wolpert said in his message that he 
would consider supporting plus/minus 
grading “if an overwhelming majority of 
students favor it,” and a grandfather 
clause was included.
Wolpert said that originally, he did 
not like the idea of plus/minus grading, 
but he was listening closely to Senate’s 
debate on Tuesday to hear a strong ar­
gument in favor of it.
Instead, Wolpert said that he thought 
even more that it was wrong. “After 
hard consideration, I made an immedi­
ate decision [to veto the resolution],” he 
said.
SDC, from page 1
said White. “AT&T said they didn’t have 
the records of what particular students 
were overcharged.”
“They could only give us one lump 
sum,” said LaMonica. Thus, the money 
was distributed to SDC, Greek Council 
and Panhel proportionally, depending 
on how many overcharged students were 
living in dormitories, fraternities, and 
sororities.
SDC and the Activities Board (AB) 
had some problems in deciding on the 
projector. AB was disturbed because the 
new projector, which was 35 mm, would 
only be able to show the Friday and 
Saturday night films. The films shown 
on Thursday and Sunday, which were 
available only on 16 mm film, would 
have to be sacrificed. According to White, 
“They [AB] originally complained be­
cause there was not enough room for 
both projectors in the projector booth.”
Last semester, AB and SDC decided to 
squeeze both projectors into the room. 
White said it would be tight, but it will 
satisfy everyone. “We want everyone to 
be happy,” said Scott Curtin, SDC presi­
dent.
AB president Matt Adler, a fifth year 
Material Science student, said that there 
was never any formal agreement made 
between the AB and SDC. “We had a 
meeting and he [White] told us [that 
both projectors were going into the 
booth].” Adler remains skeptical about
whether or not both projectors will fit. “I 
haven’t received word if we can fit both 
in a convenient way. We didn’t want to 
do it, but we want to continue [showing] 
16mm films,” he said.
If approved, the televisions and VCRs 
could be in place soon after the vote, and 
the recreational equipment could be in 
place by the end of the semester. The 
programming events would be seen at 
different times. The work on the projec­
tor is tentatively scheduled for the sum­
mer, so it could be ready by next fall.
Both White and Curtin wish to em­
phasize that there will be no damage to 
either the booth or the equipment in the 
booth during installation and no need to 
drill holes in Doherty for ventilation. 
“This is to dispel any rumors that have 
come up,” said White. The admission 
price will remain the same and the equip­
ment does not have to be out for repairs.
The election on this amendment is 
scheduled for Wednesday. During this 
week’s meeting, the floor will be open for 
any comments or questions people may 
have concerning the amendment. “I in-' 
vite people to stop by our meeting on 
Wednesday if you have any comments,”, 
said Curtin.
Adler felt that AB was not consulted 
as much as they should have been. When 
asked why AB never came up with a 
compromise, Adler replied, “They [SDC] 
never asked. I’m not convinced this is 
the best way to spend ACUS money.” *
Correction...
In last week’s article entitled, “WRCT’s future still cloudy,” a number of 
statements were inaccurate. The station did request space in the Naval 
Center, but the space provided was inadequate. The costs of ventilating the 
space were $100,000-$200,000, not $1,000-$2,000. The new transmitter 
operates at 1,750 watts; The station never considered moving to the former 
Appliance Store warehouse in East Liberty .
In last week’s feature photo, “Dazed or confused,” junior Troy Benowitz’ 
name was misspelled. The group’s name was misstated as well; the group’s 
correct name is “Hemp Awareness.” The Tartan regrets the errors.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Andrew Sproule at x8-2111, or write him in 
care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
SENATE
Meeting of 8 February 1994
Roll was taken at 7 pm. Meet­
ing was called to order at 7:09 
pm.
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Baron (GSIA), Calhoon 
(GSIA), Carter (CIT), Cohen 
(SCS), DeMasi (MCS), Frey 
(CFA), Gannon (MCS), Gonzalez 
(MCS), Holzman (CIT), Kim 
(CFA), Kwon (CIT), Landay 
(SCS), Makhuijee (CIT), Motley 
(CIT), O’Connor (GSIA), Sawyer- 
Villers (CIT), Singh (CFA), Trexel 
(IM), Turks (Heinz), Wallhausen 
(HSS), Wang (CIT), White 
(H&SS).
Senators Absent: Gach (CFA), 
Grant (Heinz).
Approval of the Minutes:The
AB movie last Sunday was The 
Tatni Show. The AB concert at 
Metropol is the Mighty Bosstones. 
Senator Calhoon was mistakenly 
listed as absent, and Senator 
Baron was mistakenly listed as 
present.
Audience Participation:
Brian Engel of the Presidential 
Committee to Reform Student 
Government gave an update of 
what the group is doing. The new 
chairman is Tamal Makhurjee. 
They are mainly working on 
streamlining Student Senate, 
possibly proposing new bylaw 
changes; more official and codi­
fied GSO and Student Senate 
relations so that GSO can be the 
official representative of the 
graduate students to the admin­
istration; and codification of an 
Activities Fee split so as to be 
able to deal with the situation 
more efficiently should it come 
up in the future.
There is a new bboard, 
assocs.student-government.re- 
form.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Matt Adler): Movies:
Thursday, She’s Gotta Have It; 
Friday, Bad Lieutenant; Sunday, 
I Was a Teenage Frankenstein. 
We need to fill all of our positions 
for 1994-5. Applications will be 
available at the Skibo Info Desk, 
and are due Feb. 10.
Barbara Bailey Hutchinson will 
speak on Feb. 12. AB Concerts 
bought 100 tickets for the Mighty 
Bosstones at Metropol; bus ser­
vice will be provided; concert tick­
ets are $5 and bus tickets are $1.
GSO (Tim Mallo): At our last 
meeting we discussed media for 
graduate news and GSO’s role in 
student government. At the 
PGAB meeting we discussed Cof­
feehouse relocation and the book­
store report.
Greek Council (Demian 
Johnston): Greek Sing philan­
thropy is the American Diabetes 
Association. IFC, Panhel and 
Greek Council are sending five 
people to NEIFC and NEPC. 
We’re determining the feasibility 
of an All Greek Banquet. We’re 
forming Greek Orientation 1994 
committee to work with Fresh­
man Orientation.
Faculty Senate (Michael 
Murphy): None.
Student Affairs (Pat Harned): 
BFASA is giving two programs 
for Black History Month: on Feb­
ruary 14 at 5:30 pm in the 
Wherrett Room, lecture on His­
tory, Identity and Empowerment; 
on February 17 from 7 to 8 pm in 
the Ballroom, Sounds of Heri­
tage.
SDC (Ben Wang): Movie on
Saturday is Fearless at 6, 8:15, 
10:30, and 12:45 pm. There will 
be a blood drive tomorrow in the 
West Wing TV Lounge from 12 to 
6 pm. SDC meetings are Wednes­
day nights at 7 pm in the Wherrett
President (Dave Wolpert): Not 
available at this time.
Treasurer (Declan McCul- 
lagh): None.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Dawn 
Wallhausen): None.
Campus Affairs (Cheryl 
Gach): Meeting at 6:30 pm on 
Tuesday.
Funding and Recognition
(Crystal Trexel): We have three 
special allocations and one re­
quest for recognition tonight. 
Budget disks are due back on 
Feb. 18.
Human Resources (Moneet 
Singh): We put together a post­
session evaluation form to assess 
Senate’s activity during the fall 
session. Results will be used to 
help future Senates.
Public Relations (Jim Albert): 
Elections are going on now and 
polls will be open tomorrow from
9 am - 5 pm in Kiltie Court.
Chair (Burt Holzman): Next 
week’s meeting is our last regu­
lar meeting. We will have a spe­
cial meeting at 7 pm on February 
22 to ratify the election. The first 
meeting of the new session will 
immediately follow at 7:30 pm on 
February 22. We have been en­
forcing poster policy.
New Business from Commit­
tee:
Special Allocation — $7500 to 
WRCT for a new control board. 
Passed 18-2.
Special Allocation — $321 to 
AB for Syquest hard drive. Mo­
tion to table passed by acclama­
tion.
Special Allocation — $3662 to 
Health and Fitness Fair. Passed 
19-2.
Request for Nonfunded Recog­
nition — Women in Science. 
Passed by voice vote.
Plus/Minus Grading — passed 
14-8 by a role call vote: Albert 
(yes), Baron (yes), Calhoon (yes), 
Carter (no), Cohen (no), DeMasi 
(yes), Frey (yes), Gannon (yes),
Gonzalez (no), Holzman (abs), 
Kim (no), Kwon (yes), Landay 
(no), Makhurjee (yes), Motley 
(no), O’Connor (yes), Sawyer- 
Villers (yes), Singh (yes), Trexel 
(no), Turks (yes), Wallhausen 
(yes), Wang (no), White (yes).
New Business from the 
Floor:
Motion to take from the table 
the AB Special Allocation of $321. 
Passed by acclamation.
Motion to amend allocation to 
$294.50. Passed by acclamation.
Motion to allocate $294.50 to 
AB passed in the eyes ofthe Chair;
Points of Discussion: Plus/. 
Minus grading system and allo-^ 
cations were discussed.
Announcements:
There are the following vacan-1 
cies: 2 IM, 3 H&SS, 1 MCS, 1- 
GSIA, 2 CIT, 1 Misc. Deadline forj 
petitions is Sunday at noon.
Meeting adjourned at 9:42 pm.-
Submitted by; 
NAOMI BERNER
Edited byj 
JASON TOGYER
SKI
Sprine Break 94
Collegiate Ski Week 
Mt. Sutton, Canada 
March 27 - April X
only $199
• 55 Slopes and Glades 
•9 Lifts, 3,125 ft.
• 10 miles from VT border
• 5 Day Lift Ticket
• 5 Nights Lodging 
(Mountainside Condos)
• 5 Days Activities
Walk to Happy Hour every day! 
The legal drinking age is 18.
Group Leader Discounts 
Call Ski & Sand Travel
THE
THREE-MONTH BIRTH CONTROL 
SHOT, IS NOW AVAILABLE AT 
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
Call now for a confidential appointment to discuss your birth control options.
WPPLANNED
PARENTHOOD
OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA
Downtown
Pittsburgh
434-8971
Sewickley
741-7626
Clairton
233-6001
SYR ACUSE
Looking for a good exchange rate to 
study abroad next semester?
3.75 GPA and up=$l,500 Scholarship 3.50 GPA and up=$l,000 Scholarship
Study abroad grants based on need also available.
Syracuse University sponsors study abroad sites in 
Florence, Italy London, England Harare, Zimbabwe
Madrid, Spain Strasbourg, France
SU credit ¦ Reid trips/Traveling seminars ¦ Internships ¦ Study for a semester, year or summer 
Courses taught in English and In host country language
THEARNCM U,unMECuiH
alplhlot os StmuetGmlotGr neofeGih d/eoGT ¦ 119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472 ¦ 315-443-3471
\>

---------------------------------------------------

FORI!
Plus/minus grading 
requires more thought
Student Senate passed the 
plus/minus grading resolution 
which was tabled last semester. 
Dave Wolpert, Student Body 
President, then vetoed the reso­
lution. Wolpert stated that the 
majority of students he spoke 
with opposed the grading sys­
tem and that students didn’t 
have any say in the new system. 
Wolpert also said there should 
be a grandfather clause attached 
to the grading system if it were 
implemented. We concur with 
Mr. Wolpert because we believe 
there are many problems with 
the new grading system.
Wolpert said he would con­
sider the new system appropri­
ate if there were a grandfather 
clause, which means that stu­
dents currently enrolled at CMU 
would not be affected by the 
new system. Only new students 
would be affected by the plus/ 
minus grading system. We feel 
the grandfather clause to be a 
necessity. We are surprised that 
it wasn’t attached to the resolu­
tion before it was passed. Stu­
dents should be able to have 
consistency throughout their 
academic career at the same in­
stitution. If the administration 
can change the grading system 
now, what’s to stop them from 
making random changes when­
ever they fancy it. This shows 
little regard for students.
Another problem was that 
graduate students were exempt
from the resolution. Why? They 
are at the same school and are 
governed by the same senate. If 
the grading scale was to affect 
undergraduates, it should af­
fect graduate students.
It is good that the administra­
tion is trying to do something to 
improve the grading system we 
have now, but there are cer­
tainly other avenues which can 
be explored. If, as we were told, 
they are looking for a more ac­
curate way of grading students, 
then why not a purely numeri­
cal grading system? It could run 
from one to 100 and would be 
much more accurate than the 
plus/minus system. Or, they 
could follow the examples of 
other universities that use only 
written evaluations which 
would be more accurate and 
personal, and would also let stu­
dents know exactly how they 
were doing.
The communication of grad­
ing system changes to students 
has been consistently poor. They 
need to know what’s going on. 
While we understand that stu­
dent senate is the representa­
tive body, we believe a decision 
that will affect so many stu­
dents, should be brought to the 
whole student body in a refer­
endum. This would be a much 
better way of gauging all stu­
dent opinion and, hopefully, get 
students more involved with de­
cisions that affect them.
Problems exist with 
university housing
There are some problems with 
the university housing system 
at CMU. We do not want to 
imply that there is anything 
wrong with the people that work 
at housing, as all of them are 
hard working, conscientious, 
and caring people. However, the 
system that is in place now, 
seems to be unfair to those that 
it affects most — namely, the 
students.
There seems to be an 
unequable fee attached to on- 
compass housing. Rent for these 
rooms is considerably higher 
than regular rental rates for 
apartments around Pittsburgh. 
It has been argued that living 
on campus allows students 
greater accessibility to the ser­
vices that campus provides. 
However, these benefits seem 
to be outweighed by the benefits 
one gets from living off campus, 
such as: larger living space, 
kitchen space, more flexibility 
in choosing a roommate, and, 
usually, cheaper rent. It seems 
that since the university has 
such control over these living 
spaces, that they would be able 
to provide more reasonable rent 
rates.
An added problem is that hous­
ing is so limited. Freshman are 
guaranteed living space, but no 
one else is. It would seem only 
fair that new graduate students, 
especially those coming from 
other countries, should have a 
chance of getting housing pro­
vided for by the university. Not 
only do these students have to 
worry about entering a com-
CKO HOUSlU^ ALT£J^WA71V£^
Letters to the Editor
Writer slams Senate, GSO
Editor:
Hurry, hurry, —
pletely new culture, and a very 
strenuous work load, but they 
are weighed down with the prob­
lem of finding housing in a 
strange and new city. Other 
universities offer housing to 
grad students, so why doesn’t 
CMU? A solution to this prob­
lem might be to have CMU buy 
an apartment building or two 
and first offer it to incoming 
students. If they are afraid of 
being left with unpaid for units, 
they can do what Pitt does and 
rent them out to other students 
in the area once they are sure 
that their student’s needs are 
met.
There also seems to be a prob­
lem realizing that there are va­
cant rooms, especially after the 
winter break. We have heard 
stories of students who are pay­
ing for a shared room and living 
by themselves because their 
roommate(s) dropped out, 
moved out, or flunked out. If 
there was a way to find these 
vacancies in a more quick and 
efficient manner, some of the 
housing shortage could be 
solved.
Of course, as with any system, 
there many bugs that need to be 
worked out. We’ve only touched 
on a few of them here. As said 
earlier, we do not wish to attack 
the people working in housing 
because they truly work hard at 
what they do. However, we think 
it would behoove the university 
to look at the overall system 
and make necessary changes. 
This could only improve cam­
pus life.
hurry! Step right up 
and see the amaz­
ing Lara Wolfson Letter to
disi°rth ‘he facts- the Editorright before your 
very eyes! See her opponents dazzle you 
with sleight-of-hand! And drop your 
drawers, ladies and gentlemen, you’re 
about to get screwed again.
The GSO makes all grad students look 
shallow and greedy. I would be all for a 
restructuring of student government, if 
it were not being undertaken at this 
time to further a political agenda on the 
part of a few members of the GSO.
Lara Wolfson is allowed to make broad 
statements that go unchallenged. 
“Ninety percent of grad students spend
100 percent of their time in their depart­
ment,” she says. This nice, round num­
ber sounds like anecdotal information 
on her part, especially since she offers no 
evidence to support it. And couldn’t it 
also be said of undergrads? Why not 
abolish all student activity fees, in that 
case?
Her opponents are no better. They 
shoot holes through their objections to 
the hasty student government restruc­
turing with mean-spirited personal at­
tacks and lies. What a bunch of nice 
people you are—give yourselves a hand 
for character assassination!
Grads and undergrads should be ap­
palled by the political grandstanding 
going on, supposedly on their behalf. 
However, they have remained silent. 
Look at the dismal turn-out in this elec­
tion — the student body deserves the 
rabble it gets in student government.
Perhaps any organizations that see 
their funding slashed after GSO appro­
priates the grad activities fee can ban 
graduate students. Then, the grad stu­
dents can form their own organizations, 
and we can skirmish on the Cut during 
the activities fair.
GSO has mentioned that they’d like to 
take the grad activity fee money and use 
it to fund the GSO Coffeehouse and “a 
big picnic.” Oh, joy — how noble!
Let’s take the undergraduate activi­
ties fee and rent a big top to house the 
picnic. Student Senate and GSO will 
provide the clowns.
Name withheld upon request
WRCT manager clarifies facts
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I would like to 
point out several fac­
tual inaccuracies in 
last week’s article 
about WRCT 
[“WRCT’s future still cloudy,” 2/7].
WRCT did informally request space in 
the Navy Building from the Space Allo­
cation committee. However, when it was 
found that no space they could offer was 
fit for our purposes, we continued look­
ing at other possible locations.
The space that was considered in the 
Navy Building was of a suitable size, but 
the cost of ventilating that space was far
more than was realistic. Costs for venti­
lation alone were estimated in the range 
of $100,000 to $200,000, not “$1,000 to 
$2,000.”
In all, WRCT has looked at about a 
dozen different spaces since 1990, though 
the Appliance Store was not one of them, 
contrary to your statements. The avail­
ability of the old Appliance Store space 
would serve only to free up space else­
where on the central campus. The occu­
pants of Bureau of Mines Building F 
may relocate to the Appliance Store, so 
we have considered Building F. How­
ever, it does not seem like space will be 
available in time for oui' move from Skibo.
WRCT’s new transmitter and antenna 
are operating at 1750 watts, not 750, 
with a potential listening audience of 
well over 1—2 million people in Pitts­
burgh and Allegheny County.
Steve Auterman 
General Manager 
WRCT Pittsburgh 88.3 FM
Greek event 
excludes queers
Letter to 
the Editor
onEditor:
Carnegie Mellon’s 
Greek community 
merits praise for its 
charity events. At 
the same time, it 
should be criticized for the way some of 
these events discriminate against bi­
sexuals, gays and iesbians.
Last week, Delta Delta Delta and Pi 
Kappa Alpha announced a Valentine’s 
Day charity event to benefit children 
with cancer. The well-publicized event, 
called “Hugs, Slaps and Kisses,” allows 
a student to send a hug, mock slap or 
kiss on the cheek to another person on 
campus. The event announcement said, 
“If the person is female, it is delivered by 
a Pika brother or pledge and if the per­
son is a male, it is delivered by a Delta 
Delta Delta sister or pledge.”
But what if queer students want to 
send a Valentine’s Day kiss to their 
lovers? According to J. D. Gebicki, the 
Pika coordinator, they’re out of luck. “I 
don’t think it’ll be possible to have a guy 
kiss a guy. I don’t think I can find any­
body to do it ... It’ll have to be a girl 
kissing a guy,” said Gebicki.The tridelts 
were more accommodating. While they 
initially said, “No, you can’t do that. 
That’s the way it was set up originally,” 
one tridelt eventually volunteered to 
deliver a kiss to another woman.
While we commend the tridelts, espe­
cially their lone volunteer, for their will­
ingness to recognize queer relationships, 
we are disappointed that the Pikas 
weren’t nearly as understanding. What’s 
the difference between kissing a woman 
(probably somebody else’s girlfriend) to 
whom you’re not attracted and kissing a 
man? There is no difference, unless you’re 
homophobic.
We offer the tridelts a hug and a kiss 
for their acceptance of same-sex coi^ples, 
and soundly slap the Pikas for their 
homophobia. '
Declan McCullagh 
Senior, Cognitive Science
Donna Riley 
Doctoral Student, EPP
Hemp advocates criticize Tartan
Of
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
So just who is 
dazed and confused, 
or should I say dazed 
or confused? Accord­
ing to The Tartan, it 
is the members of Hemp Awareness, not 
the Society for Marijuana Legalization, 
the name arbitrarily assigned to the 
activists who held the Fence in order to 
educate the campus community. There 
was obviously a bit of confusion at The 
Tartan. Two Tartan “reporters” came to 
the Fence earlier in a feeble attempt to 
pose as Hemp Awareness members. This 
did not work. The crew returned an hour 
and a half later and proceeded to 
photographs and interview Hemp 
Awareness members. The Tartan re­
porters collected quite a bit of informa­
tion — more than enough to do a story, 
I would assume. Yet, only a photo and a 
caption appeared in the.last Tartan, and 
it was loaded with misinformation, 
would especially like to note that the 
name of a Hemp Awareness member 
was spelled incorrectly. The person is 
notTroy Benkowitz, it is Troy Benowitz. 
So where does all the confusion he? 
guess instead of covering a real event 
and exploring real issues, your staff con­
centrated on interviewing random stu­
dents coming out of Kiltie Court about 
studying abroad,
Dazed or confused? The student body 
is both. Dazed by our presence, and 
confused about their all-American rights 
to read what they want and say what 
they want. It’s time students realize 
that no one will send them to jail for 
taking a flier or saying the word “mari­
juana.” This is America, and we have 
power as citizens to exercise our rights 
in exercising how we feel. Most students 
here unfortunately exercise their rights 
to be rats, running through this horren­
dous maze to find the corporation at the 
end. There are alternatives.
Dazed or confused? Hemp Awareness 
is neither. In the time we held the Fence, 
we passed out a thousand fliers 
could have easily passed out a thousand 
more. The day was a resounding success 
and an important event on campus. We 
would like to thank all the members of 
Hemp Awareness for sitting at the Fence 
and passing out fliers and trying to edu­
cate the campus community. We would 
also like to thank the CMU staff mem­
bers who showed their support. Espe­
cially noteworthy is Campus Security, 
who understood our right to freedom 
speech as Americans.
Troy S. Benowitz 
Junior, History
Christopher J. Mega
Writer ignores 
human nature
Editor:
Matt Ball is cor­
rect in pointing out 
that gun rights are 
about violence, not 
sport [“Gun enthu-
Os
Ixtlcrlolho Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Please see LETTERS, page
<,

---------------------------------------------------

FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-x
Rights are not granted by the state
David Hunt
About 200 years ago, many of 
this country’s wisest men gath- 
¡red to forge a government. Thus 
was born the Constitution. One 
ofthe most important parts of the 
Constitution is the Bill of Rights, 
which is composed of the first 10 
am endm ent s.
The conventioneers agreed that 
the rights were not granted by 
the State, but were inherent in 
human existence. These rights 
include the freedom of speech and 
religion, and the right to keep . 
and bear arms. There is the right 
to be secure in your personal pos­
sessions and the right to a jury 
trial. Other rights such as the 
right to privacy spring from those 
amendments. Yet today these 
rights are under heavy attack.
The primary offender is the war 
on drugs. In the name of halting 
the drug trade, people can be 
stopped any time an agent feels 
that the person fits the profile of
suspicious person.
Who defines “suspicious”? The 
agent doing the search does. For 
example, one search was justi­
fied because the person was at 
the head of the line coming off a 
plane. The agent felt that the 
person was “in a hurry.” But
deplaning last has also been used 
to justify a search, as has 
deplaning in the middle of the 
crowd. Clearly, getting off a plane 
is a highly suspicious activity. 
Many times the oft-quoted but 
rarely explained profiles of drug 
traffickers are used to harass 
minorities.
Drug Enforcement Agency 
agents have burst into private
homes in the middle ------------
of the night with no 
warning, weapons 
drawn and ready. In­
nocent families have 
had their houses torn 
apart; then the 
agents have left with­
out even an apology.
An anonymous 
phone call is often 
used as the sole basis 
for a no-knock search warrant. 
Property can legally be seized, 
held, and sold for the govern­
ment’s profit without any convic­
tion, or even evidence of wrong­
doing. Ignorance of a crime is no 
excuse. Even if no incriminating 
evidence is found, you have to sue 
the government to get property 
back.
The National Security Agency 
and Federal Bureau of Investiga­
tion (FBI) have been promoting a 
requirement that your phone and 
email communications must be 
readable by law enforcement.
In other words, any commer­
cial software used to encrypt data
must have a back door so that 
they can be wiretapped. “Clip­
per” is an encryption scheme that 
the government wants because it 
allows them to easily access your 
communications. Never mind the 
fact that hundreds of companies, 
privacy experts, and encryption 
specialists have denounced it as 
a built-in spy network; the White 
House is going to adopt it as a
Recent sting operations by ATF 
and Postal Inspectors involve 
sending unsolicited illegal ma­
terial to people and then arrest­
ing them upon receipt!
governmental standard.
The FBI was recently chastised 
in Kansas; in order to get a wire­
tap warrant, it had used a “dis­
turbing pattern of material mis­
statements, overstatements, and 
omissions,” accordingto Chief US 
Magistrate Judge John Maugh- 
mer. He continued: “The conduct 
of the FBI... rises to such a level 
of recklessness as to mandate sup­
pression [ofthe evidence obtained 
through the wiretap].” These are 
the people whom we should trust 
to safeguard our privacy?
Free speech is under attack 
from both the right and the left, 
either in the name of “decency” or
“non-offensiveness.” In spite of 
the fact that freedom of speech is 
clearly defined in the Constitu­
tion, there are many people who 
want to limit what you can see, 
hear, say, and read. Knowledge 
is power, and access to unpopular 
expression is what these censors 
want to stop.
Speech, privacy, and the safety 
of possessions aren’t the only 
----------------- rights under at­
tack. The tragedy 
at Waco, involving 
the Branch Dav- 
idians, comes to 
mind. Despite no 
evidence of illegal 
weapons or child 
molestation and a 
history of com-
.......——-, plete cooperation
with law enforce­
ment, the Bureau of Alcohol, To­
bacco and Firearms (ATF) went 
in with guns blazing. Although 
ATF was searching for illegal 
weapons, numerous Texas Rang­
ers have testified under oath that 
all the weapons presented as evi­
dence of illegal activities were, in 
fact, legal. Thus far, no illegal 
activities have come to light that 
would require a no-knock war­
rant, let alone lethal violations of 
standard procedures for dealing 
with dug-in opponents.
ATF has a long record of civil 
rights violations. In 1982, a Sen­
ate committee said that ATF had 
“disregarded rights guaranteed
by the Constitution and laws of 
the United States.” About 75 per­
cent of ATF gun prosecutions 
were aimed at citizens who “had 
neither criminal intent nor knowl­
edge, but were enticed by agents 
into unknowing technical viola­
tions.” Recent sting operations 
by ATF and Postal Inspectors 
involve sending unsolicited ille­
gal material to people and then 
arresting them upon receipt.
Intent is not the issue. The US 
government has shown repeated 
contempt for some of our most 
basic rights, including the right 
to bear arms. An unarmed popu­
lace is a helpless populace. Two 
centuries ago we fought a suc­
cessful war to free ourselves from 
tyranny, and now the government 
is trying to disarm us.
The right to keep and bear arms 
is as much a right as any other 
and is the final insurance that 
the rest of our rights remain in­
tact. I don’t advocate armed revo­
lution because we aren’t that far 
gone yet. But we must be vigi­
lant.
Thomas Jefferson said it well: 
“The strongest reason for the 
people to retain the right to keep 
and bear arms is, as a last resort, 
to protect themselves against tyr­
anny in government.”
David Hunt is a mechanical 
engineering graduate student who 
will surrender his weapons one 
bullet at a time.
Email communication lacks personal touch
Mahua Dutta
Electronic mail has revolutionized the 
way we communicate, especially at CMU. 
In a way, it’s a godsend. We can communi­
cate with our friends and family. We can 
access electronic bulletin boards for news 
and homework assignments. We can even 
create our own bboards for whatever in­
terests we may have. For us, and for those 
who have internet links through their 
place of work, it’s free. It seems like a 
pretty good deal, and it is one.
There is a glitch, however. Due to the 
expanded use of electronic mail, the world 
has become much less personal. Some of 
you may argue that this isn’t so. You may 
claim that you have many new friends 
because of email. You feel as though you 
know them as well as the friends you see 
in person.
LETTERS, from page 6
siasts promote violence,” 2/7]. His column, 
however, not only contains an important 
logical flaw, but also is riddled with fac­
tual errors and distortions.
Ball states that a gun in a house is more 
likely to injure or kill a “good guy” than a 
“badguy.’’This is a cooked statistic, which, 
among other problems, overlooks the fact 
that the vast overwhelming number of 
successful, legitimate uses of a gun in self- 
defense do not result in death or even 
injury. Furthermore, the true measure of 
a gun’s effectiveness is not the number of 
“bad guys” killed, but the number of crimes 
deterred and innocent lives saved. But 
don’t believe me, read Point Blank: Guns 
and Violence in America, by independent 
criminologist Gary Kleck. It’s in Hunt Li­
brary.
Ball also claims the National Rifle Asso­
ciation (NRA) has defended “cop-killer” 
bullets. This is simply false. What Ball is 
referring to was a poorly-worded bill op­
posed by the NRA that would have unin­
tentionally banned most ammunition used 
in hunting rifles in addition to the in­
tended armor-piercing handgun bullets 
(which were never available to the public 
— only to the police and the army, any­
way). Ball should do his homework.
But Ball’s great logical flaw is assuming 
that violence is intrinsically wrong, equat­
es “gun advocates” with “vicious crimi­
nals.” If I’m being attacked, is it less mor­
ally right for me to defend myself than to 
call .the police? Does Ball forget that the 
policd maintain order directly through vio­
lence or its implicit threat?
Even more disturbing is the fact that 
Ball recognizes that sometimes “old la-
Although I’m sure you’re all close to your 
email friends, I have to pose a few ques­
tions. Isn’t a friend someone who holds 
your hand while you’re getting a flu shot? 
Isn’t a friend the one who hugs you when 
you’re crying? Isn’t a friend the person 
who takes care of you when you’re sick? All 
right, all right; you say that your email 
buddies are there for you. You “talk” to
don’t speak spontaneously. You think 
ahead and sometimes rewrite before send­
ing the message. The conversations are 
very controlled. You don’t even get si­
lences. The long and sometimes awkward 
pauses are just as much a part of a conver­
sation as speaking. You miss out on that, 
and more.
When communicating through email,
When communicating through email, you lose 
the identity of the person ... you don’t hear ac­
cents, see color, or observe mannerisms. That 
background is important.
them every day.
Think about it, though. Do you really 
talk? You might say that it’s the same as 
the telephone. Is it? I think not. You don’t 
hear a voice. There are no inflections in 
tone. There are no stammers or sighs. You
you lose the identity of the person. Some of 
you may claim that is a good thing. You 
might say you can be more objective. You 
don’t hear accents, see color, or observe 
mannerisms. Fine, maybe you sincerely 
believe that losing all of that background
Letters to the Editor
dies” stop intruders with a gun; yet he 
would apparently sacrifice them, and you, 
and your loved ones like lambs to his altar 
of a utopian crime-free society.
As for the image of “gun enthusiasts” 
sitting at home to “lovingly stroke their 
weapons,” this bizarre fantasy has only 
been established so far to exist in Ball’s 
mind.
Ball’s response to his insecurity is a 
futile attempt to change human nature. 
Like most people, I pray I will never have 
to use violence to defend myself or my 
loved ones. But if I ever do, I may need a 
gun. So may you. To believe otherwise is 
negligence and folly.
Robert D. Stock 
PhD student 
Physics
Columnist hides true intentions
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
This letter does not 
specifically address 
any column in the last 
issue but rather the 
series of columns by 
Matt Ball. I have been reading his col­
umns off and on all year, and mostly found 
them not to my liking. I have revised my 
opinion because I now know what they are 
really for.
Matt Ball must be a conservative. His 
columns are generally incoherent endorse­
ments of the leftist credo, and given their 
level of quality must be meant to dispar­
age the message which they carry. The
continual tie-ins of every issue into veg­
etarianism has proved to be the clincher. 
One could not manage such an irrational 
ability to tie in every issue in the political 
spectrum to eating meat without being 
tongue-in-cheek. His continual disregard 
for facts shows a wonderful level of con­
tempt for the fanaticism of many of the 
leftist causes these days.
I actually must commend Ball for his 
deviousness and subtlety in his actions. 
He is doing what a major radio figure 
espouses — “to demonstrate absurdity by 
being absurd.”
The creative nature of his assault on the 
leftist bastions of this country is rather 
inspiring. I almost wish I could have 
thought of such a ploy, but sadly I don’t 
think I could have come up with it. It 
surely took me long enough to catch on at 
that. Well Matt, keep up the good work, 
and I will enjoy laughing along with you in 
your columns.
James Stepanek 
Graduate Student 
MSE
Senate's ad disturbs Russians
Editor: W O^fl
Last week the Stu- jESfä*?'
dent Senate placed in -------------------
Highlander cafeteria a Letter to 
poster starting with the Edjtor 
Imagine that... Rus­
sia has just declared war on us, and has 
launched all their nuclear missiles. You 
have 29 minutes to live.”
is beneficial. I disagree. That background 
is part of what makes people who they 
are; it’s what makes them interesting. 
It’s important. When I know a person, I 
want to know everything about that 
person. It’s not because I want to pick 
and choose or categorize; it’s because I 
believe that those things are important 
to fully understand who people are.
You don’t get all of that through email. 
Don’t get me wrong; I’m not saying that 
email is altogether bad. I’m not saying 
that you shouldn’t use email or meet 
people through email. I’m just saying 
that you shouldn’t forget about the live 
people around you.
Take the time to sit down with some­
one, face to face, and have a conversa­
tion. Take account of facial expressions, 
his or her voice, and the eye movements. 
Take it all in, and then think about that 
experience the next time you sit down at 
a monitor.
Mahua Dutta is a junior professional 
writing major.
Since many people have seen this 
poster, we would like to respond to the 
Student Senate through The Tartan.
The Russian State existed before the 
end of 1917 and was reestablished at the 
end of 1991 when the Soviet Union, 
ruled by communists, collapsed. So 
please remember that the word Russia 
is not a synonym for the Soviet Union 
anymore and that the word “Russians” 
is not a synonym for “bad guys.”
Historically, Russia has been a very 
peaceful nation. The only wars it has 
had were to protect itself against con­
querors: Genghis Khan, Teutonians, the 
Ottoman Army, Napoleon, and so on.
On a social level, Russians are very 
cheerful. They love their friends and 
families, and as any nation of people, 
they enjoy living as opposed to dying.
Russians do not have any reason to 
bomb America or any other country with 
nuclear or “conventional” weapons. 
Moreover, most people in Russia admire 
the United States and would like to have 
American friends.
We ask you and everyone who reads 
this:
1. Do not misuse the words “Russia” 
and “Russians”;
2. Do not mistakenly use these words 
in a negative context;
3. Do not make bad jokes about Russia 
and Russians;
4. Do not participate in anti-Russian 
propaganda.
Tania Marrero
Center for Machine Translation
THE TÀRTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr.............Lauren Heinz
News Editor................Jason Togyer
Forum Editor...............Abby Schiff
Sports Editor..............Eric Strauss
Features Co-Editors....Tonya Rado
Kathleen Wright 
Diversions Co-Editors ....John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor........Brockett Horne
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGinness
Art Co-Editors...............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Co-Editors.............Jim Snyder
Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr............Katie Swango
Copy Manager.............Eileen O'Shea
Personnel Manager ..Frank Michels
Systems Mgr..........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor......Eric Salzman
Asst. Forum Ed.............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds.......Anuj Gupta
Carolyn Skarada 
Asst. Features Ed. ..Karen Grunberg 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila
Photo Staff Manager....David Perry
Darkroom Manager.......Daniel Frey
Contributing Editors 
Keegan Folk, Laura McClure, 
Brendan McFeely, Tina L. Urso
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Janice 
McClure
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Jason 
Andracki, Matt Ball, Jennifer Barkin, 
Kymberly M. Bartlo, David Bazelon, 
Allan Bourdius, Mahua Dutta, Jes­
sica Fang, Andi Francioni, Tom 
Harper, Edward Hayes, Jason 
Heinlein, Micki Kochanskyj, Justin 
Lam, Declan McCullagh, Matthew 
Messner, Ronak Singhal, Jason 
Specland, Rhonda Struminger, Su­
san Stuart, Bethany Sutton, Jenni­
fer Turner, Mike Walker, John Weber
Art
Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Dexter Kobayashi
Photo
VineetAgarwal, Kevin Chen, Bassem 
El-Dasher, Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Jim Snyder, Maria 
Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Margaret 
Stallings
Production 
Becky Elroy, Ken Kraemer, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Eric Pettus, Jenna 
Sweterlitsch, Ron Yang
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Jennifer Forbes, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerin Kay, Lisa 
Kruglak, Ed Slavishak, Elizabeth 
Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunskill, Chandra 
Buist, Justin Carroll, Kristen Connell, 
Seth A. Covitz, Madhav Ghanta, Dan 
Goldwasser, D. Renee Hairston, Amy 
Haupl, Buck Neel, Jesse Nice, Pat 
Prasangsit, Lisa Steggles, Gabe 
Symons, DaniellaTopol, Vivien Weiss, 
David White, Brian Young
Costya Domashnev
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub­
lished by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer­
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsylva­
nia Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for 
the semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons are the 
opinions of Individual creators. The Tartan re­
serves the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to tho Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University commu­
nity. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. Tho Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright 
© 1993 by Tho Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

°FTU FHiNHp ‘ wHipUtCU QUEEDp ‘ 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-
Press, public ignore butchering in Bosnia
Matt Ball
On Saturday, February 5, the lead 
story on the CBS Evening News con­
cerned Tonya Harding and Nancy 
Kerrigan. That entire week, Connie 
Chung reported from the edge of the 
skating rink where Harding practiced; 
the crowds of fans and onlookers grew 
with each report.
Of course, the attack on Nancy 
Kerrigan was a terrible tragedy. Our 
hearts go out to her: her knee was 
bruised, she didn’t skate to make the 
Olympic team, she signed lucrative en­
dorsements and had her own prime­
time television special even before the 
Games began. As long as she doesn’t fall 
in Norway, she will most likely win the 
gold — who would deny her, after the 
tragedy she has gone through?
There was another story that Satur­
day, buried far down in the newscast. 
Almost 10 years to the day after the rest 
of the world watched the Olympic flame 
arrive in Sarajevo for the 1984 Games, 
the world turned away as another mor­
tar shell arrived there. The guns had 
been briefly silent shortly before, allow­
ing parents and children to gather at the 
market to try and barter for rations to 
sustain them through more of winter. 
Somewhere in the hills above, someone 
dropped a 120-mm round into the tube 
and fired the shell into the crowd.
Obviously, the situation is complicated: 
centuries-old ethnic conflicts, shifting 
alliances, no clear bad guy, and no re­
sources we want. Why should we care? It 
is not as though the conflict in Bosnia 
involves gasoline, gold, or a guy named 
Gillooly.
All that is at stake are thousands of 
nameless, faceless “foreigners” watch­
ing as their family and neighbors are 
beheaded and disemboweled by the lat­
est attack, unable to mourn. Tomorrow 
will be their turn.
Over a year and a half ago, Bill Clinton 
said of the butchering in Bosnia, “If the 
horrors of the Holocaust taught us any­
thing, it is the high cost of remaining 
silent and paralyzed in the face of geno­
cide.”
Yet, for two years, we have all been
guilty of contributing to a holocaust. 
Just like the police driving blindly past 
a murder in progress so as to not get 
involved with the “messy” problem of 
crime, US military aircraft have flown 
blindly over Serb gunners sitting on the 
hills overlooking Sarajevo, almost lei­
surely raining death among the men, 
women, and children who live in terror 
every day.
While we trade the latest Harding 
club joke, in the former home of the 
Olympic Games, a fatal clash of “nation­
alism” kills more non-combatants, some 
of them quickly, some of them slowly, 
none with glory or fanfare.
Recently, Bill Clinton tried to wash 
his hands of the blood of the 200,000 
people for whom any action will be too 
late: “They’re going to have to make up
their mind to quit killing each other* 
Certainly this is true — who are wet 
say what is worth killing and dying fC:< 
Who are we to say that innocent, 
shouldn’t be systematically slaughtered 
This doesn’t involve us. We should sta 
our hand-wringing and empty thres;, 
and honestly admit that what concern 
us are only juicy scandals with hj^ 
humor potential.
Many suggest that we lift our arm 
embargo, giving more weapons to 
killers so they can slaughter everyo^ 
more quickly and get it over with ^ 
out of the news. We have more impo> 
tant, more pressing concerns.
Think they’ll let Harding skate?
Matt Ball is a PhD student in ety 
neering and public policy.
A PERSON’S
OPINION
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
A hot topic of debate that 
finds itself in economics classes 
and smoke-filled living rooms 
is whether marijuana should 
be legalized. Many people con­
sider it a harmless recreational 
drug. Do you think mari­
juana should be legalized?
Doug Brady 
Sophomore 
Physics
“No, definately not. It would 
cause crime to increase and cre­
ate other problems.”
Beth Hedgeman
Sophomore
Biology
“No, we have too many prob­
lems already with alcohol. I 
wouldn’t want to be hit by a car 
driven by someone who’s high.”
Friz Trump hour 
Freshman 
History
“I think for commercial as­
pects, legalization should be con­
sidered.”
Cameron Brown
Junior
Economics
“I think marijuana should be 
the minimum we should legal­
ize because it’s stupid not to.”
Cheryl Mendenhall
Junior
Design
“No, I don’t think it would be 
healthy for society. It would be 
a bad message for kids.”
APPLICATION DEADLINE 
MARCH 2, 1994
MCAT, GMAT, 
and LSAT
test takers wanted to partici­
pate in a study on exam 
preparation. Earn $10.
Contact Lisa at 421-9759, 
268-8112, or lh34@cmu.edu
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
The GE Classic MasterCard. An educated choice.
Look for an application on campus or in your mail.
It’s required reading that can give you the credit you deserve.
*APa'ssho*fiasofI/l/9« 9 9% «amble APR apples for the fru 12 bArgcycfei: aftertnat a vamWe APR. »txti aj of \l\fH «a» 16 9%. appl/ to al eaarn and re* Mi-xn At yi; tíre, ¡os rite wd «xrease to a «amble APR.»h<h as of 1/1/94 was 199%. based on f>f deirquency. A rruvrum fiance Ourje of S50 appl/ at aJ trres A cash adarce fee of of the atot (mnm/n S2 and mawx/n S20) <*J be charjed far each cash advance 
’ ‘COLLEGE KasterVakjts a a product offered Dy MasterCard *tKh rs subject to change and ma/ be (Jscontrxied at an/ tme Certa»' terms and ccrdtons 'asp'»
TEACH FOR AMERICA
People think
there are limits to what we can
do, that it’s out of our reach to
really change the way things are.
I feel there is no limit to what we
can do—it only depends on
how much of ourselves we
want to give.
MuGgE coe diuelgG 
yoeLh Hui/ue
See your career office for applications. 
If none are available, please call 
1-800/832-1230 ext.120.
If your completed application .was postmarked by 
January 15. 1994, you have been guaranteed an 
interview and will receive notification in the mail.
REQIRREDREADING.
Get the credit you deserve» 
with the GE Classic MasterCard.
A AA/ The GE Classic MasterCard is the educated 
BE O /0 choice for students looking for smart ways 
E b 10 save- °^ers one the lowest APRs m ® B APR you'll find on campus - 9.9%* variable APR 
for the first year with a low 16.9% variable APR thereafter. 
That means that even if you’re only able to pay the minimum 
amount due, you'll pay just 9.9% on your outstanding balance.
NO ANNUAL FEE!
While other credit cards charge annual fees of $20 or more, 
the GE Classic MasterCard has no annual fee. Frankly, we 
don’t see why you should pay just for putting our card in 
your wallet
This great offer could only come from 
a team like GE Card Services and 
MasterCard. GE Card Services is part 
of one of the leading financial services 
companies in the world. And MasterCard’s the credit card 
more widely accepted than any other on the planet Together, 
they provide you with unparalleled financial security.
STUDENT DISCOUNTS.
As a GE Classic MasterCard member, you're also entided to 
special discounts at many of your favorite stores. Through the 
COLLEGE MasterValues™** program, you'll enjoy savings of 
up to 40% on everything from CDs to travel.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Men split pair of weekend games
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Friday the Carnegie Mellon Tartans 
hosted the Washington University Bears 
jut of St. Louis, Missouri. The Tartans 
^ad upset the Bears in overtime only a 
•ew weeks ago, but Friday night was a 
ot different. The Bears captured a 16-2 
ead only about five minutes into the 
rame and never trailed again. Friday’s
was as bad as the first as the Bears 
racked up 56 points to win the game 
104^-66. Washington made 14 of 23 three- 
pointers for the evening and shot 65 
percent from the field. The Tartans only 
shot 38 percent from the field. Senior 
forward Derek Dragisich said it best 
when he said that Washington simply 
“hit all their shots.” Asked how the Tar­
tans could squeak by 
a team one week and
best when he said: “Teams just seem to 
shoot the lights out when they come in 
here [Skibo Gym].”
Sunday afternoon the Tartans hosted 
the University of Chicago Maroons. Be­
fore the game, Wingen told his team 
that they had to start playing “tremen­
dously tough defense” if they wanted to 
win. CMU did exactly that as they held 
the Maroons to
game maybe remembered as the “Night- get blown out by the 
mare at Skibo Gymnasium.” same team only a
After falling behind early on, the Tar- few weeks later, 
tans played even with the Bears for Dragisich said that 
about five more minutes until the Bears the first half each of 
ivent on another run. With 7:51 left in the two meetings 
the half, Kevin Folkl scored his second were similar: the 
basket in a row to give the Bears a 30-8 Tartans were flat, 
lead. The Tartans showed some life only But in the first meet- 
a few seconds later when senior Mike ing the Tartans 
Hosni fed sophomore Kevin Byrne, who. found themselves 
then nailed a three-pointer. About.a and were able to 
minute later it was the Rich Bodnar come back and win 
show. Bodnar, a freshman who started in overtime. Friday 
the game for the Tartans, scored three of Dragisich felt that 
four free throws and then stole the ball the Tartans just 
and laid in two more points to make the didn’t have “that 
score 32-16. But the Bears immediately same fire.” 
answered with two three-pointers from 
J.J. Siepierski and Gene Nolan. With 
less than two minutes left, Byrne stole 
the ball and scored to draw the Tartans 
within 17 points, but the Bears scored 
the last four baskets of the half and went 
into halftime leading 48-23. Washing­
ton had nailed seven of nine three-point- 
[ers in that first half, part of the reason 
;they had built such a large lead.
The halftime
shootout contest 
was probably more 
exciting than the 
game. It included 
three contestants 
(two of them Boy 
Scouts) who tried to 
score as many free 
.throws as they could, 
lover a cardboard 
cutout of Shaquille 
O’Neal. Both Boy 
Scouts won in a close 
battle and received 
some great prizes 
from the movie Blue 
Chips.
The second half
Byrne led the Tar­
tans with 19 points 
followed by Bodnar 
with 13. For Wash­
ington University,
Brent Dalrymple had 24 points, Gene 
Nolan had 17 points (five three-point­
ers) and Shawn Winn had 14 points. We 
have also been getting a look at some 
new faces on the basketball team lately.
Bodnar and sopho­
more forward Jon 
Blanciak started for 
the Tartans Friday 
and freshman forward
Trendel (6'8", one of 
the tailest on the 
team) got some time 
in the second half.
After Friday’s loss 
the Tartans find them­
selves at 6-12 overall 
and 4-5 in the UAA. 
Tartan coach Tony 
niU,TMHp PC&T 'DopHi Hpo ,UpCDi QCcU Wingen described 
/D,pC diU,, HtHCp,N LH,TCptNDp •. some of these last few
Tartan home losses
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor 
mDdTDMDiU hUuCp 'sipU oiCaaEU, Cp NTU 
dHCpN HtHCp,N H dHCi DA oUAUpoUi,.
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor
only 10 first half 
points!
The Tartans 
looked like the 
Bears had looked 
in the first half of 
Friday’s nights 
game. The Tar­
tans scored 18 
straight points in 
just over six min­
utes to take an 18- 
2 lead on Chicago. 
Six and a half min­
utes later the Tar­
tans went on a 14- 
point run that 
took the rest of the 
first half. The Tar­
tans led 34-10 at 
the half.
Early in the sec­
ond half, however, 
sophomore Gregg 
Lassan took a spill while trying to snag 
a rebound. The game was delayed about 
seven minutes as Lassan was attended 
to. Lassan suffered a mild concussion 
and got a gash on his head that required 
10 stitches. As Wingen put it, Lassan’s 
injury “brought us [the team] down.”
At the time of Lassan’s injury the 
Tartans led by 26 points, but only 10 
minutes later the Tartans’ lead was cut 
Jeff Klock and big to six. However, the Tartans finished 
freshman center Gary the game with an eight-point run. This 
included a beautiful pass from Bodnar 
to senior Charlie Conners who then pro­
ceeded to score and put the game out of 
reach with only 1:25 left.
The final score was 59-42 in favor of 
the Tartans. Bodnar led the Tartans 
with 15 points, followed by Byrne, who 
had 10 points and eight rebounds. Also 
senior guard Mike Hosni had seven as­
sists and eight rebounds. The Maroons 
were led by Ali Lejlic (15 points) and 
Jason Shaw (10 points).
Despite the victory, the Tartans still 
have some problems that just don’t seem 
to go away. Wingen feels that a lack of 
defense is one of the two major problems 
plaguing the Tartans. “This has been a 
very frustrating year. If you don’t play 
defense you’re not going to win most of 
your games.”
He also points to lack of consistency as 
a problem. To solve this problem, Wingen 
has switched his starting lineup several 
times this season in an attempt to find 
the right combination.
The Tartans won one and lost one this 
weekend to put their record at 8-13 
overall and 6-6 in the UAA.
The Tartans’ next home game is this 
Wednesday against Thiel College at 8 
pm. Then on Sunday, the Tartans play 
their final home game of the season 
against UAA foe Emory University at 3 
pm.
They close the year against the Uni­
versity of Rochester on February 26 in 
Rochester.
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor 
mUpCDi wTHiECU wDppDi, oiCuU, NTU EHpU H, 
NUHMMHNU, aD2 DSN ADi NTU iUaDSpo.
Tartans on offense...
9 dHCiDA FHiNHp aH,cUNaHEE dEHsUi, Nis ND 
dSN ,DMU dDCpN, Dp NTU aDHio ADi wQ•. 
9aDuUr ,UpCDi PDps KDTp, NiCU, H AiUU 
NTiDv HtHCp,N LH,TCptNDp •pCuUi,CNs DA 
mN. 0DSC,r Cp NTU ,HMU tHMUr EUANr WSpCDi 
tSHio mNUuU 9NTUpH, EHSp&TU, H WSMd 
,TDN.
FiH&c NUHM &DpNCpSU, ND vCp oU,dCNU iC,Cpt ,NiU,,
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor .
As mid-semester slowly creeps up 
onus, the stress not only shows in the 
clusters, but on the track and field as 
well. Women’s coach Dario Donatelli 
confirms this. “Around mid-semester 
there always are some problems,” he 
said. “Everyone seems to get sick.-
Although mid-semester blues are 
here again, the men’s team had four 
first place finishes this week, while 
the women succeeded in setting some
tion, with all Division I and H schools 
present, Carnegie Mellon kept their 
heads above water and were taken 
seriously.
In women’s competition, the fresh­
men continued to shine. Freshmen 
Becky Buchheit and Amy Hugget had 
the season’s best times: Buchheit set 
marks in two events, the 3000-meter 
run and the 1500-meter run. The lat­
ter event was one that Hugget also 
did exceptionally well in.
Setting a new indoor school record 
for the high jump event, senior Ersula
of the season’s best scores and earning Cosby jumped 5’0,:. Sophomore Missy
“Around mid-semester,; 
there are always some 
problems
— Dario Donatelli, 
women’s track coach
several first 
and second 
place victories.
Unfortu­
nately,; there 
were some in­
juries. Fresh­
man Molly 
Clifton pulled 
a leg muscle 
andrnaybeout ByyyBBBJA 
for the season.
According to Donatelli, he was 
pleased with the outcome of the meet. 
“We were coming off a very good per­
formance from last week,” he said.
The team is taking next weekend off 
in order to prepare for UAA’s.
“I want to use the week to recover 
and get ready for Championships,” 
Donatelli said. “This was ourlasttune- 
up meet before the conference.” In two
Baustert took 
first place in 
the 1500- 
meterrun,fol­
lowed by se- 
nior team- 
mate Aliza 
Hildebrandt.
As for the 
men, fresh- 
¡¡¡¡^£¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¦¡¡¡¦¡¡¡¡1 man Buck 
Neel came in 
second place overall in the 55-meter 
dash with a time of 6.4 seconds. The 
Tartans also took second, third, and 
fourth placesinthe 55-meter hurdles. 
These were seniors Gary Long, Deron 
Haley, and Jarrod Siket, respectively.
Haley, who was out with an injury 
previously, came back this meet re­
freshed and better than ever. In fact, 
Long, Haley, and Siket did better than
weeks they will be back in theswingof the top hurdlers last week.
things.
As for the men, coach Gary Meckley 
summed it up best when he said, “In 
every event we entered, we finished 
third or better.”
A key to their success was resting a 
few of the athletes.
Based on the high level of competi­
In the 400, Siket finished with a 
time of 51.3 seconds.
“He did very excellent i n this event,” 
Meckley said, impressed with his per­
formance.
Senior Jim Langer competed well in 
both the 1500 and the 3000-meterrun 
Please see TRACK, page 11
Tartan women drop pair of games
By CHANDRA BUIST
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Tartans lost a tough game to the 
experienced Washington University of 
St. Louis Bears this Friday, giving the 
Bears their eighth straight win. The 
Tartans entered the game with an over­
all record of 8-11, while 2-8 in the Uni­
versity Athletic Association. The Bears 
were 17-3 overall and 8—1 in the UAA. 
The Bears, one of the top ranked teams 
in the NCAA Division III Central Re­
gion, defeated the Tartans 76-47 in their 
first meeting. Their second victory over 
the Tartans did not prove to be as easy.
The Tartans entered the game strong, 
despite a technical foul called against 
them during the first two minutes. The 
teams were evenly matched, with nei­
ther leading by more than five points 
during the first half. The starting five 
held tough during the first 10 minutes, 
allowing 14 points while scoring 12. This 
play continued on throughout the half, 
and the Tartans went into halftime down 
by only four points. While the Bears shot 
48 percent from the field in the first 20 
minutes, the Tartans shot 44 percent, 
and the half-time score was a close 36- 
32.
Junior guard Jenny Gretz led the Tar­
tans with 15 points, four rebounds, and 
two steals. Senior forward Mary Moore 
scored 11 points and freshman forward 
Kristen Kupfer had eight. Jeanine 
Megahan, the Tartans’ leading scorer, 
sunk two field goals and two free throws, 
for six points. Megahan also grabbed 
down seven rebounds. Coming off the 
bench, freshman forward Daphne Har­
ris gave a strong performance, sinking 
six points and creating two turnovers.
Despite the intense efforts shown by 
the Tartans, the Bears pulled away with 
the game in the second half, outscoring 
CMU 9-2 in the first five minutes of 
play. Hot from the field, the Bears went 
on to shoot 56 percent in the second half,
while the Tartans shot only 32 percent. 
Senior guard Sarah Goldman of the 
Bears led her team to victory, scoring a 
game high 20 points, grabbing five re­
bounds, and creating seven turnovers. 
Outscoring the Tartans by 15 points in 
the second half, the Bears won the game 
with a final score of75-56. Despite their 
intense efforts and abundant talent, the 
Tartans are having a tough season. 
Freshman guard Penny Summerville 
expressed the feelings of the frustrated 
Tartans: “We’re overdue. I think we are 
playing well, but we are just coming up 
short.” The Tartans are a talented ball 
team, but they are lack the experience of 
the other UAA teams.
The Tartans lost another tough game 
Sunday against the University of Chi­
cago Maroons. The 
Maroons entered 
the competition 
with an overall 
record of 11-9, and 
a UAA record of 4-
6. Carnegie Mellon 
now has an overall 
record of 8-13, with 
and UAA record of
2-10. In their first 
meeting with the 
Maroons, the Tar­
tans lost, 55-39.
Once again, the 
Tartans played a 
tough first half, but 
went cold in the sec­
ond. At the end of 
the first half, the 
Maroons led 22-21.
The Tartans shot 27 
percent from the 
field, while the Ma­
roons shot 31 per­
cent. In the second 
half, the Tartans 
shot a low 13 per­
cent from the field 
while the Maroons
shot 43 percent. For the Tartans, senior 
forward Jeanine Megahan and fresh­
men forwards Kristen Kupfer and 
Rebecca McCadney had six points apiece. 
Meanwhile, sophomore guard Kim Den­
nis of the Maroons scored a game high 17 
points, and junior forward Kathleen 
Abbott scored 16 points. The Tartans 
were outscored by 18 points in the sec­
ond half, resulting in a 52-33 victory for 
the Chicago Maroons.
The Tartans are having a difficult time 
keeping their momentum and intensity 
for a full 40 minutes. Meanwhile, the 
Maroons managed to come out and fin­
ish strong in the second half. Chicago 
Head Coach Susan Zawacki felt that the 
Tartans played a tough game, but that 
Please see PAIR, page 11
Tartan File Photo
FTU vDMUpg, NUHM TDdU, ND iUaDSpo AiDM NvD NDStT ED,,U,.

---------------------------------------------------

10FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-
Upsets dominate NCAA hoops
In Your Face
by Seth A. Covitz
Two things distinctly stand out in my mind 
when someone mentions this year’s college bas­
ketball season: The lack of a dominant player, 
team, or conference and the lack of a dominant 
player, team, or conference. Do I have to make it 
any clearer? The season that began with the 
stunning upset of North Carolina by Massachu­
setts in the pre-season NIT, has spawned a 
cataclysmic wave of upheaval around the NCAA. 
No team is safe, and if you’re the number one 
team in America, you might as well surrender 
quietly. I don’t think that you could count the 
number of upsets on one hand, or an entire 
team’s hands, for that matter. Other signs that 
the California earthquake wasn’t the only thing 
to shake the continent recently: How about 
UCLA’s ascension to the throne for the first time 
in 11 years, only to be discarded less than a week 
later by California, and later to lose 79-64 to 
Notre Dame. Wait, football season is over, right? 
Right? Six teams have shared the number one 
ranking this year, which hasn't occurred in the 
history of the AP poll since the 1982-83 season.
So you’re bogged down with work, and you’ve 
been away from college hoops for a little while. 
What am I trying to say? Couldn’t it have changed 
all that much? Please don’t take my word for it. 
Pick up your paper and check out the polls. Try 
to guess which conference currently has half of 
its teams in the top 25? The ACC? Nope. The 
SEC? Nope. The PAC-10? Nope.
As of last week, the conference with half of its 
eight teams in the top 25 was none other than the 
Great Midwest Conference. The conference in­
cludes teams like St. Louis, Alabama-Birming- 
ham, Marquette and Cincinnati. Sound familiar 
now? I didn’t think so. This year has continued 
the success of less-publicized conferences like 
the Great Midwest, Atlantic 10, and Metro. The 
Atlantic 10 currently has as many teams in the 
top 25 as does the ACC, Big Eight, and Big East.
Reasons for the balance of power include height­
ened academic standards and scholarship reduc­
tions. Players with enormous talent who do not 
qualify for schools in top conferences or those
that would have gone to a top school had there 
been one more scholarship, are ending up in 
these other conferences and excelling.
On the down side, increased parity in the 
league means that traditional conferences like 
the ACC and SEC, used to taking their top five 
teams to the NCAA Tournament, may not be so 
lucky this year. In other words, your favorite 
team who is not doing all that well might be left 
at home, come this spring’s “Big Dance.” How 
are the folks in Kansas City, who decide who is 
and who isn’t invited to the tournament, sup­
posed to pick your team over a team like St. 
Louis that is 19-1 and ranked in the top 25? You 
had better hope that your team gets a bite of the 
“upset” food chain while there is still some 
remaining. Five weeks and counting to this 
year’s tourney.
Good move of the week: The NCAA’s lead­
ing shooter, Glenn Robinson of Purdue, an­
nounced this week that he will not enter the 
National Basketball Association at the conclu­
sion of his junior season. Robinson, who could 
clearly go top 10 in this year’s NBA draft, did the 
right thing. Besides getting his degree (in physi­
cal education), and barring any catastrophic 
injury, Robinson is assured of being the number 
one pick when he graduates. Too many players 
make the move to the pros too early and they 
lose sight of what is really important: The value 
of an education.
Stat of the week: Despite a rise in both the 
number of three-point shots made and three- 
point shots attempted, most analysts are failing 
to notice the resurgence of the “ally-oop” shot in 
college basketball. Pick any North Carolina, 
Louisville, or California game and you’ll be sure 
to notice Jerry Stackhouse (North Carolina), 
Rasheed Wallace (North Carolina), DeJuan 
Wheat (Louisville), and Lamond Murray (Cali­
fornia) appearing out of nowhere to slam it 
home!
Player to watch: University of Connecticut’s 
Donyell Marshall. Marshall is second in the 
NCAA in points scored and has posted 33-point 
nights of late. He has exploded for as many as 50 
points this season. Keep your eye on the Hus­
kies’ superstar as he and coach Jim Calhoun’s 
UConn team continues to take control of the Big 
East conference.
Seth A. Covitz is a sophomore computer sci­
ence major.
/D&cUs pUUo, pUv ,NHNC,NC&, ND 
TUEd AHp, SpoUi,NHpo tHMU aUNNUi
Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdius
Any true fan of a sport likes to 
follow statistics. Statistics that 
are readily available for football, 
¦baseball, or basketball give an 
¡excellent picture of the ability 
and performance of every team 
and every player. For example, a 
^statistical report on a football 
'team lists all kinds of offensive 
and defensive statistics. Unfor­
tunately for hockey fans, the 
available NHL statistics are 
somewhat lacking in comparison.
The only team statistics regu­
larly provided are wins, losses, 
ties, points, goals for, goals 
against, goal differential (goals 
for minus goals against), winning 
percentage, and points percent­
age. Power play and penalty kill­
ing statistics are distributed, but 
you usually have to look in a 
hockey-only publication, like The 
Hockey News.
Player statistics — for skaters, 
notgoaltenders—are maintained 
for offensive categories like goals, 
assists, points, power play goals, 
shorthanded goals, game winning 
goals, game tying goals, shots on 
goal, and shooting percentage.
Only one of the individual sta­
tistics, plus-minu§, gives any in­
dication of how well a player plays 
defensively (plus-minus is the 
number of even-strength goals 
the player has been on the ice for 
minus the number of even- 
strength goals against he’s been 
on the ice for). That lack of 
’devensive ratings means most 
fans are unable to tell how good a 
defensive player is. In fact, some 
good defensive players have a bad 
iplus-minus.
Hockey could really use some 
additional statistics. Here are 
some of the new stats I’d like to 
see the NHL provide:
Body checks. Right now, the 
only indicator of physical play is 
penalty minutes; a bad one at 
best. Instead of quantifying physi­
cal play by who are the delin­
quents, base it on who are the 
hitters.
My proposed checking statistic 
would be calculated as follows: 
(number of clean checks minus 
number of dirty checks) divided 
by number of checks received. 
This way, the rough play that 
results in penalties can be dis­
counted and a player can be cited 
for the poundings he receives, 
and deals out.
Blocked shots. If the league 
can keep track of shots on goal, 
they can keep track of shots that 
are blocked by forwards or 
defensemen. Now, this could be a 
touchy statistic because going 
down to block a shot can often put 
the blocking player out of posi­
tion, resulting in a goal by the 
attackers.
So then, blocked shots should 
be tallied as follows: number of 
blocked shots minus number of 
goals scored against while the 
player was on the ice and had 
blocked a shot. Obviously, people 
would be penalized for having 
blocked a shot only to have a goal 
scored much later, but bad blocks 
have to be compensated for.
Penalties in goals. The cur­
rent penalty statistic, penalties 
in minutes (PIM), really doesn’t 
tell the full story of how a player 
may be hurting his team by sit­
ting in the penalty box.
Since PIM includes misconduct 
and match penalties, neither of 
which give power plays, a player’s 
penalty total is not necessarily a 
good indicator of the damage 
caused. However, a key player’s 
absence from the ice due to a 
misconduct or match penalty 
could implicitly hurt his team
simply because he can’t be out 
there playing.
Penalties in goals (PIG) should 
be calculated as follows: number 
of goals scored while the player is 
in the penalty box divided by num­
ber of PIM. PIG therefore takes 
into account both the number of 
goals scored when a player has 
made himself unavailable to his 
team and the frequency with 
which he has sinned.
Time of possession. If NHL 
’94 for my Sega Genesis can keep 
track of how much time each team 
spends in the offensive zone, then 
the National Hockey League 
could probably do the same for 
real teams. Cumulative time in 
the defensive zone would also be 
a good statistic. Also, offensive 
and defensive possession percent­
ages could be calculated by divid­
ing time of possession by total 
minutes played.
Offensive/defensive pres­
sure. This relates to time of pos­
session. Offensive pressure would 
be number of shots on goal for 
divided by time in the offensive 
zone; defensive pressure would 
be number of shots on goal al­
lowed divided by time in the de­
fensive zone.
I could keep going on about 
statistics I’d like to see calculated 
league-wide except they start to 
become more and more compli­
cated and therefore of less value 
to the casual fan. Criticisms of 
other sports have been made re­
garding statistics, and over-us­
ing them to rate players, teams, 
and situations.
Unlike basketball, football, or 
baseball, hockey fans usually only 
know the quality of play of the 
team they follow. Anything be­
sides offensive production just 
isn’t indicated by the stats avail­
able in the paper.
Allan Bourdius is a fifth year 
senior double majoring in applied 
history and industrial manage­
ment.
nDiMUi ED,Ui, mUHNNEUr FU2H, vCEE 
&DpNUpo Cp BiUuHMdUoO vCEo LU,N
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
While Pittsburgh continues to 
slide into a never-ending deep 
freeze, baseball fans at CMU and 
everywhere else are warmed by 
the fact that opening day lies a 
mere seven weeks away.
And with the daVra of the sea­
son lying just over the horizon, 
it’s time for the yearly rite of 
m aking predictions 
on the haves and 
have-nots for the 
season, and of 
course, the order of 
finish.
So, without fur­
ther ado, let’s get 
right into it, and 
delve into what I 
see happening in 
the American 
League West in 
1994.
California Angels: This is a 
team that, despite current finan­
cial restraints, is only a year or 
two from becoming a bona fide 
contender. The Angels’ lineup, 
whichis now concentrated around 
last year’s unanimous Rookie of 
the Year, outfielder Tim Salmon, 
features a genuine prospect at 
almost every position. Fans can 
expect more production from first 
baseman J.T. Snow who, despite 
struggling after the All-Star 
break, is still considered a future 
star. And make no mistake, out- 
¦ fielder Eduardo Perez, the son of 
future Hall of Famer, Tony Perez, 
is the real thing. The lineup will 
also prosper as players such as 
Damion Easley, Chad Curtis, and 
Gary DiSarcina continue to ma­
ture while veterans such as Chili 
Davis, and recent additions Spike 
Owen, Dwight Smith, and the 
mythical Bo Jackson add depth.
The Angels also have a solid 
core of pitchers, centered around 
lefties Chuck Finley and Mark 
Langston. Although Langston’s 
name has been rumored in sev­
eral recent trade talks, his pos­
sible departure would be com­
pensated by rookies and young­
sters with names such as Phil 
Leftwich, Hilly Hathaway, Russ 
Springer, and Brian Anderson.
The bullpen appears to be the 
one extremely fuzzy area for the 
Angels, as the only assured spot 
seems to belongto Joe Grahe who 
came on at the end of last year 
with 11 saves.
Oakland Athletics: The A’s, 
who saw their modern day dy­
nasty come to an end after the 
1992 season with the departure 
of most of their veterans to free 
agency, saw 1993 as a rebuilding 
year. And although the job is not 
yet done, Sandy Alderson seems 
intent on bringing a winner to 
that side of the bay area within 
the next year or two.
After trading away Rickey 
Henderson for prospect Steve 
Karsay this fall, Alderson turned 
around and signed him again this 
winter. It now appears that 
Henderson will finish his career 
in an A’s uniform, which is appro­
priate, as he started his career 
and won an MVP award in one. 
Henderson will -be joined by vet­
eran sluggers first baseman Mark
0Dv mNSoUpN 
nH&SENs nHiU,
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUM
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
wHEE ’°5R-?ll
McGwire, catcher Terry Stein- 
bach, outfielder Ruben Sierra, 
and last year’s surprise rookies, 
designated hitter Troy Neel, and 
second baseman Brent Gates.
Although the A’s feature the 
above mentioned names, the 
pitching staff is in a state of chaos 
and it is for this reason that the 
A’s are still at least a year away 
from being seriously considered 
as contenders. Centered around 
veterans Ron Darling, Bobby Witt 
and the aging Bob Welch, the 
staff showed flashes of promise 
last year with the additions of 
Karsay and Todd Van Poppel.
Although the bullpen is a weak 
spot for the A’s, Dennis Eckersley 
probably has another good year
After 17 years of floundering 
around the second division ... the 
Mariners are now poised to rise 
to the cream of the crop in the 
[American League].
or two left in his submarine arm.
Alderson and manager Tony 
LaRussa continue to be possibly 
the best one-two punch in the 
majors and it is for this reason 
that a winner will soon play ball 
in the Oakland area.
Seattle Mariners: After 17 
years of floundering around the 
second division in the American 
League, the Mariners are now 
poised to rise to the cream of the 
crop in the A.L. With a lineup 
that is centered around probably 
the most identifiable player in 
the game, outfielder Ken Griffey 
Jr., the Mariners not only stack 
up with one of the best lineups in 
the A.L., but also one of the deep­
est benches and rotations.
The Mariners have developed 
sluggers such as outfielder Jay 
Buhner, third baseman Edgar 
Martinez, first baseman Tino 
Martinez, utility man Mike Blow­
ers and newly acquired outfielder 
Eric Anthony.
Further, top prospect Alex 
Gonzales, a teenage shortstop, is 
almost ready for Seattle.
Starting with the 6'10" Randy 
Johnson, who was declared by 
Nolan Ryan as “the pitcher of the 
90s,” the Mariners have a staff 
which features four starters who 
have won 15 games at least once 
in the past two years (Johnson, 
Dave Fleming, Greg Hibbard, 
Chris Bosio) and one number one 
draft pick who has the potential 
to win 15-20 games — Roger
Salkeld.
The weak spot for the Mariner, 
appears to be the bullpen, as the* 
are without a true closer with tlu 
departure of Norm Charlton 
the Mariners will still hav5 
enough of a makeshift bullpen fr 
make do.
Lou Pinella is the right man. 
ager for this team, as he know 
how to instill the fire inside thi. 
talented group of youngsters.
Texas Rangers: Much like S*. 
attle, after years of going j 
circles, the Rangers are prime: 
for contention. The stretch drivi 
that they put together last'yeai 
was no fluke. This team is foj 
real. With the seven-year con­
tract that two time defending 
home run chain, 
pion Juan Gon­
zalez was just 
awarded, GMTom 
Grieve has shown 
that he is intent on 
bringing a winner 
home to the ne\? 
Arlington Stadium 
in 1994.
The Ranger; 
lineup also 
tures several other 
sluggers such as third baseman 
Dean Palmer, catcher Ivan! 
Rodriguez and the newly acquired 
first baseman, Will Clark. Butii 
the Rangers are to come out 
top this year, the difference v 
be in how much injured outfielder 
Jose Canseco can contribute. Doc­
tors say he can swing a bat fine, 
but he may not be 100 percent.
Although not as deep as the 
starting five of the Mariners, the 
Rangers have a starting rotation 
that is almost as impressive. 
Kevin Brown and Kenny Rogers 
are two of the brightest young 
pitchers in the A.L. and they are 
joined with Roger Pavlik, a righty 
whom many say may be the hard­
est thrower in the league.
And as long as the Rangers can 
hold a lead going into the eighth 
or ninth innings, they can rest 
assured in the hands of closer 
Tom Henke who continues to earn 
his name “The Terminator” with 
40 saves and a 2.91 era in 1993.
The Rangers will have to play 
with the gritty, get dirty style of 
manger Kevin Kennedy in order 
to go to the post-season this year. 
Natural talent alone will not get 
them there.
Projected Order of Finish: 
1) Seattle Mariners 2) Texas 
Rangers 3) Oakland A’s 4) Cali­
fornia Angels.
Anuj Gupta, Tartan Assistant 
Sports Editor, is a sophomore 
chemical engineering major.
Lokkini gfraidf exchordf
HAIRCUTS $16.95
? * (Men and Women) C
• r
The Philip Pdisi* salons offer great 
savings to students. Get the internationally 
acclaimed Volumetric® haircut and related 
services for just $16.95 with selected 
designers. Every haircut appointment 
includes consultation, shampooing, 
conditioning, blow dry and styling and a 
styling lesson!
Present this Ad with Student ID Card to 
get your College Club Discount Card.
Philip Gradswe
A Cut Above the Rest'
\ Squirrel Hill 
521-1200
One Oxford Centre 
261-Ó550
Century III Mall 
655-1940
Village Square Mall 
833-Ó770
Ross Park Mall 
366-1555
Robinson Town Centre 
788-0204
Monroeville Mall 
372-7520
Westmoreland Mall 
836-6670
28 Years

---------------------------------------------------

FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-11
bDEEUsaHEE iU,&TUoSEU, MHN&TU,
By CAROLYN SEABADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The weekend was bleak for the men’s volley­
ball team, who had a last minute cancellation of 
their weekend events. Gannon University was 
unable to attend CMU’s first home match Friday 
night. Then, the Sunday match against Indiana 
University of Pa. game was postponed.
Looking forward to this Saturday, CMU will 
face these teams at a fairly large tournament 
hosted by IUP. Of the 10 to 12 teams attending 
the tournament, “there will be a number of tough, 
quality teams present,” senior John Borger said. 
The teams he is referring to include Grove City 
College, the University of Delaware, Millersville 
University of Pa., Shippensburg University of 
Pa., West Virginia University, the College of 
Wooster, California University of Pa., and 
Bucknell University.
CMU has turned this off-weekend into an op­
portunity to work on perfecting plays and plan­
ning strategies for tournament play. So far they 
have been successful in their execution of seven 
or eight plays in which each hitter has special­
ized tasks.
On Monday, February 21. the team travels to 
Slippery Rock University of Pa. for another 
match.
Coming up for mid-semester break weekend, 
the men will be busy. They have two home 
matches, one on Sunday and one on Monday, 
and one road match on Friday. The Friday match, 
at McKeesport, pits the team against California 
University of Pa. and a club team from 
McKeesport. On Sunday, the team will host 
McKeesport again, with the third team in the 
tri-match being Grove City. On Monday, they 
host CalifomiaUniversity ofPa., the third meet­
ing between the two teams in two weeks. Two of 
the three are tri-matches.
The team will be sponsoring an outdoor volley­
ball tournament on the cut later in the semester. 
Keep watching for details.
Track prepares for postseason
PleasU from page 9
events. He ran the 1500 in 4:06 and the 3000 in 
9:06.
Sophomore Matt Beam and freshman Josh 
Greynolds also were top runners in the 3000.
Picking up the pace from last week, the men 
improved in the mile relay, coming in third place 
with a time of 3:32.
Members of the relay team were freshman Jordon 
Hopkins, sophomore Mike Rea, and seniors Siket 
and Jeff Gregor.
In the long jump, Senior Brandyn Woodard 
jumped 21 ’2.75". He also did well in the triple jump 
event, placing third at 40'11". Junior Jason Grusky, 
competing in shot put, threw at a distance of 
4511.5”. Demi Carrothers came in second throw-
Hockey club skates towards playoffs
By ANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The CMU Hockey Club continued its playoff 
drive with recent games last weekend against 
Slippery Rock University and this weekend against 
Duquesne University.
Last weekend the Tartans dominated at Slip­
pery Rock, winning the game by a score of 9-2.
The Tartans spread the scoring load throughout 
the team as six different players contributed to the 
onslaught.
Sophomore Roger Maddalena led the way with 
two goals — one in the first period and one in the 
second. His first goal came with assists from gradu­
ate student player/coach Dave Umland and fresh­
man Chris Adukaitis. Maddalena was helped in 
the second period by Umland once again, and 
junior John Cardillo.
Umland and junior Greg Jessop also helped out 
the Tartan cause with two goals apiece. Both play­
ers scored once in the first period and again in the 
second. Umland’s first goal came with assists from 
Maddalena and Adukaitis, and his second was 
backed up by Maddalena and Jessop. Jessop’s first 
goal was unassisted and his second had assists 
from junior Phil Beck and freshman Ray Ardire. 
Other scorers for the Tartans included grad stu­
dent Dave Collins, Beck and Cardillo, all with one 
goal apiece.
Howard A Novick, D.M.D.______Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Wisdom Teeth Removal • Dental Implants • TMJ Surgery • IV Sedation • 
Corrective Jaw Surgery • Oral and Facial Injuries • Extractions
STUDENTS WELCOME
Referral not necessary 
Flexible Hours 
Participating Provider of 
Blue Cross / Blue Shield,
U.S. Healthcare & Delta Dental
Two Convenient Locations:
The Park Building, Suite 805 
355 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 471-4777
Penn Hills Medical Arts Building 
5769 Saltsburg Road 
Verona, Pa 15147 
(412) 795-1172
Fellow, American Association of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons • Member of the Pennsylvania Society of Oral & 
Maxillofacial Surgeons • American Association of Implant Professionals • American Dental Association
LDMUp NSMaEU HtHCp,N wTC&HtDr 
AHEE ND 6R5? Cp •99 &DMdUNCNCDp
PAIR, from page 9
the Maroons had what was nec­
essary to win in the second half.
“CMU played tough defense in 
the first half; we had problems 
shooting the ball and running 
our offense,” Zawacki said after 
the game. “In the second half, our 
kids came out strong, and man­
aged to play good defense and 
offense. They did what was nec­
essary to win.”
This was a good win for Chi­
cago, after losing last Friday to 
Emory University in Atlanta, 
Zawacki said.
The Tartans have their own 
opinions about their seven-game 
skid. Head Coach Gerri Seidl felt 
a bit of frustration. She recog­
nizes their potential but is con­
cerned with their intensity.
“They are a good group of play­
ers,” she said. “But they do not 
react to situations quickly. We 
need to work much harder.”
Hoping to snap their now seven 
game losing streak, the Tartan 
players are realizing their mis­
takes and hoping to improve their 
performance in the future. Fresh­
man forward Anne Donovan feels 
that they need to be more consis­
tent during the games. “We play 
a very strong first half, but our 
intensity dwindles in the second.” 
The Tartans scored a mere 12 
points of their final 33 points in 
the second half of Sunday’s game.
Junior guard Jenny Gretz held
IM News
a similar view. “To salvage the 
rest of the season, we need to play 
with intensity for the full 40 min­
utes.”
While the Tartans are having a 
tough season, they are aware that 
consistency and intensity are 
what they need to concentrate on 
in order to perform well in the 
remainder of the season.
They are hoping to turn things 
around, starting with their up­
coming home game against 
Frostburg University this Tues­
day, at 7 pm.
Then, they play UAA foe Emory 
University on Sunday. They close 
the season on the road against 
the University of Rochester on 
February 26.
ing 43'5".
Again, sophomore E. J. Tsangaris made his mark, 
placing first in the 35 lb. weight with a distance of 
3910".
The team has two more meets before the end of 
the regular season. Both will be invitational meets 
held at Robert Morris College. One will be this 
Saturday, and the other will be February 26.
Both coaches expressed enthusiasm for the up­
coming meets and anticipate a promising showing 
at the UAA competition, held in Chicago the week­
end of March 4-5.
The people who advance past the UAA champi­
onships will compete at the NCAA championships 
the following week (March 11—12) at the Univer­
sity of Wisconsin-Oshkosh.
The Tartans took advantage of three power plays, 
to get three goals and they took a total of 31 shots 
on goal. Slippery Rock took 24 shots on goal.
This weekend the Tartans continued to tune up 
for the stretch run with an exhibition game against 
Duquesne which the Tartans won 6-5.
Although the Tartans were missing three play­
ers (freshman Jim Buck, Collins, and junior P. J. 
Mann), they were able to overcome a 4r-2 deficit 
after the second period and score four goals to win 
the game. Jessop said that after the second period, 
“we realized what our mistakes were ... the team 
realized that we were basically just standing 
around, but picked it up into the third period.”
The game was highlighted at the end with a 
scuffle between Ardire and one of the Duquesne 
players. Although Airdare got a game misconduct, 
and may miss the next game as a result Jessop 
said, “He didn’t do anything. He didn’t throw any 
punches.”
The win improved the Tartans to 10-3 overall 
(5-3 in league play). This coming weekend the 
Tartans have two key league games. They will play 
West Virginia University in Morgantown on Sat­
urday, and the University of Pittsburgh in 
Harmarville on Sunday.
If the Tartans beat third-place University of 
Pittsburgh, they will clinch a playoff berth. The 
playoffs will be held two weeks from now in 
Greensburg.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
RACQUETBALL
Commissioner: Jim Saxon, x2-3872 
Campus champions will be announced.
DARTS
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-3922 
Campus champions will be announced.
CHESS
Commissioner: Jim Saxon, x2-3872 
The season is progressing and results are being 
compiled.
BOWLING
Commissioner: Scott Powell, 422-1349 
All bowling fees must be paid in advance. Matches 
are rolled on Tuesday nights at Forward Lanes in 
Squirrel Hill.
BRIDGE
Commissioner: Scott Powell, 422-1349 
There was a very low turnout, so standings are 
being updated accordingly.
BACKGAMMON
Commissioner: Dave Ekern, x2-3922 
There was only one entry, so it will be declared 
champion.
BASKETBALL
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3922; Intermediate: Pat 
Leach, x2-2538;. Minors: Jim Saxon, x2-3872; 
Women Only: Trish Williams, x2-2609.
Team schedules are available in the IM Office or 
on the e-mail bboard “official.athletic-dept-news.” 
Team standings are posted on the bulletin board 
outside the IM Office.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner: Chris Paredis, x8-7121 
Matches began last week. Games this month will 
be played in the small gym, and starting in March, 
games will be played in the main gym. There are a 
record number of participants this year: 304 play­
ers on 30 teams. Volleyball equipment will be
classified
stored in Thistle Hall.
PINOCHLE
Commissioner: Dave Ekern, x2-3922
Schedules will be available next week.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3922; Minors: Jim Saxon, 
x2-3872, and Pat Leach, x2-2538; Women Only: 
Trish Williams, x2-2609
The season has started and standings are posted 
on the bulletin board outside the IM Office. Sched­
ules are also available at the office or on the e-mail 
bboard.
SPORTS COMING UP 
WRESTLING
A commissioner is still needed. The tournament 
day will be announced in the near future.
WATER BASKETBALL
Commissioner: Dave Ekern, x2-3922
Certified lifeguard: Denise Fenwick, x2-2581
Entries are due Thursday by 4:30 pm in the IM 
Office. Practice will start on Tuesday, February 22. 
Please check the IM bulletin board for a practice 
schedule.
TEAM & CO-REC BADMINTON
3-ON-3 BASKETBALL 
FOUL SHOOTING 
THREE-POINT SHOOTOUT
There is no commissioner for any of these sports 
as yet. All rosters are due by Thursday, March 3, by 
4:30 pm in the IM Office.
BUSINESS
Kickballs have arrived in preparation for the 
debut of the new sport. Also, a motion to run the 
indoor soccer season as a double-elimination tour­
nament was voted down. The next IM Board meet­
ing will be held Wednesday, February 16, at noon 
in the Intramural Office.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS
JOBS
Agents — No Experience. Company 
expanding — $12-18 hr. + bonuses. 
Send SASE for details to: Internation­
al,! 375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
Squirrel Hill couple seeks responsible 
sitter for 9-month-old baby, 10-30 hrs./ 
wk. Hours flexible. Call 683-8122.
Computer Science student or Grad to
work in Bookstore. Knowledge of books 
a must. Knowledge of Wordstock a plus. 
Must be able to work mornings to mid­
afternoon. M - F. 421-4466. Ask for 
Mary Ellen.
East West Records is looking for a 
college rep in the Pittsburgh market. If 
you are diligent, enthusiastic and know 
alternative music, this might be for you. 
Work with bands in all aspects of 
marketing, retail and ratio. Call Pete or 
Ian at (212)275-2860.
1-5pm. Near campus at 4612 Henry St. 
(off S. Craig) 682-8030.
NEON BEER SIGNS for sale. New and 
used, excellent shape, 575 and $100. 
Call 422-9366
HOUSING
Mise
Townsend Booksellers.
We buy thousands of worthwhile books 
in all scholarly and technical subjects and 
the arts. Best prices paid or generous 
trade credit. Visit us for out-of-print, 
used and rare books. Open daily: 
Monday-Saturday, 11 am-6 pm, Sunday
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776
Big, Big Apartment! — 2500 Sq. Ft. *5 
bedrooms, *2 large living rooms (22 ft. x 
17 ft.; 35 ft. x 14 ft.), *2 bath, ‘fully- 
equipped kitchen, *small office, ‘separate 
dining room, ‘sundeck, *bus stop in front 
of house, ‘garage (1 car) and 1 off-street 
parking space, ‘free washer and dryer. 
Approx. 150 yds. from CMUI Lovely, 
quiet street; very responsive landlords. 
Available May 16, 1994. Call 521-9441 
after 8 pm. $1850 plus g & e.
1/2 Block from CMU — Extremely large 
apartment. *3 bedrooms, ‘living room 
(22 ft. x 17 ft.), ‘dining room, * 2 full 
bathrooms, * fully-equipped kitchen with 
dishwasher, * small office, ‘private back 
yard, ‘one-car garage and one off-street 
parking space, ‘free use of washer/dryer,
‘very large storage facilities. Available ; 
May 16th, 1994. $1400 pliis g & e. Call 
521-9441 after 8 pm.
Sublet immediately, Squirrel Hill, 
roommate needed, graduate student 
preferred, free laundry, reasonable rent, 
storage area, furnished except bedroom’ 
521-2125.
Roommate needed M/F for large fur­
nished home in quiet residential area of 
Squirrel Hill. Call Dave, 421-0166, day.
Fifth Avenue in Shadyside. 1 bedrm, 1, 
bath condo, neutral decor, appliances 
included, move-in condition. $51,000. 
Call Kay Neuhausen 687-0400. 
COLDWELL BANKER.
JRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994 Cancún, Bahamas, 
Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110 percent 
Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 
friends and your trip is free! TAKE A 
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL 800-328-7283.
SPRING BREAK SALE1 We have the 
hottest destinations for 1994! Jamaica, 
Cancún, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida at 
the lowest adverstised prices. We always 
include the ultimate party package. 
Organize a small group and travel free! 
We will not be undersold. Call Sun 
Splash Tours today 1 -800-426-7710.
THETARTAN
268-21II

---------------------------------------------------

Humanities and Social Sciences 
Fall 1993 Dean's List
Freshmen
Anthony Abeln • Michael Ayoob
• Tracy Bach • Sandra Banks
• Vittorio Bemandino 
Warren Berrey • Christa 
Bower • Peter Boyer ¦
Leslie Brown • Justin 
Carroll • Manfried 
Chua • Tatyana 
Daniels • Derek 
Davison • Alisa 
Gabbe • Conal Ho •
Douglas Hudson • Bret 
Ioli • Yoshizumi Iwamura
• Amy Johnston • Jill 
Khoury • Susan Klein • Donald 
Krepps • Sharada Krishnappa • 
Kristen Kupfer • Serena Lei •
ici /\yooD
Banks . Long
*
Christine Lin • Larissa 
Longnecker • Katie Maynard 
Kelly McCullough • John 
McGuire • Angela 
Molloy • Ian Murphy • 
Vijay Nayak • 
Wallace Neel • Emily 
Rosenthal • Eric 
Salzman • Chintan 
Shah • Lina Shah • 
Nicole Shechtman • 
Joline Sikaitis • Wee Lin 
Sim • Douglas Smith • 
Marla Spontak • Russell 
Steele • Anuj Vaidya • Michelle 
Vollmar • Joshua Wisch • 
Patricia Yang • Eun-Hyuck Yi
Amber Benezra 
Sonya Brady 
Vincent Doerfler 
Mark Frondoso 
John gebicki 
Michael Goettsche 
Philip Gomez 
Jill Goodall
Eric Applewhite 
Gus Chkaiban 
Kendra Gilds 
Megan Gurgon 
Jason Keinlein 
Aaron Kozbelt 
Christina Kranich
Melanie Balon 
Kymberly Bartlo 
Scott Brancolini 
Douglas Brashear 
Valerie Carver 
Trinette Chandler 
Orya Dasna
Sophomores
Michael Grafton 
Jenessa Gunthar 
Michelle Hall 
Tomy Hardjbrata 
Lawenda Jones 
Edwin Katuari 
Michael Keating
Rachel Keeler 
Alyssa McCunney 
Heather Miles 
Ismail Nasir 
Kristin Nicodemus 
Tom Nyilasi 
Aidan Palmer
Juniors
Jeffrey Kunins 
Naomi Langer 
Michael Matthew 
Amy McDermaid 
James Perry 
Amy Potthast
Edgar Restrepo 
Martin Riker 
Cheri Rogers 
Michelle Rozzi 
Abby Schiff 
Gregg Sterling
Seniors
Bobbie Dofflemeyer 
Roberta Draper 
Matthew Horgan 
Nancy King 
Micki Kochanskyj 
Cynthia Kolanowski 
Georgina Koon
Eugene Kuo 
Steven Nicholson 
Tracy Pertena 
Charles Rudelitch 
Azleena Salleh 
Mark Sanders
Danielle Proctor 
Margaret Puskar 
George Schmidt III 
Jonathan Schoen 
Gina Schuyler 
Edward Slavishak 
Gary Wilson
Justin Sullivan 
Wan-Yee Tan 
Meredith Thomas 
William Wood 
Kara Yamot 
Leslie Zubaty
Daniel Schanbacher 
David Schwartz 
Mark Tamburri 
Patricia Williams 
Timothy Williams 
Gwokang Yang
Room Reservation 
Process Reminders
<y\VPhase 1, Lottery Drawing and 
Room Retention: March 1, 2, 3 
Phase 2, Room Selection:
March 14, 15, 16, 17
Deposit: remember to pay your $100 deposit to the Cashier's Office by Febru­
ary 24, 1994 in order to participate in the Room Reservation Process. Come to 
the Housing Office to request an extension. The initial deposit is refundable if 
reservation is cancelled by May 16, 1994. Housing License Agreements are 
two-semester contracts; room rates are not refunded after a student moves in 
the room.
Roommate choices: if you have not yet made roommate arrangements and 
would like to know of other students who have not selected roommates, you 
may come to the Housing Office and put your name on the Roommate Match­
ing List. Students looking for roommates will have access to this list and may 
contact those on it to arrange roommate match-ups.
org.housing.room-draw bboard: Subscribe to org.housing.room-draw for 
informational postings about the Room Reservation Process and answers to 
student questions. Mail questions to ag3b.
Informational Brochure: will be distributed in the residence hall this week.
Thinking about moving off campus? See Norma Shaw, Community Hous­
ing Coordinator in Morewood Gardens for information on nearby off campus 
housing.
Questions? Call the Housing/Residence Life Office at 8-2139 or
Attend Room Reservation Process question and answer sessions: 
Tuesday, February 22, 9 pm, Donner Reading Room’
Wednesday, February 23, 9 pm, Morewood Gardens Rec Room
Bloomberg
FINANCIAL MARKETS W
COMMODITI ES
NEWS
We’re Looking for Tomorrow’s Innovators
THE FIRM
Bloomberg L.P., a leading financial information firm, 
providing sophisticated data and analysis to investment profes­
sionals, and major companies around the world.
THE POSmON
Software Developers/Financial Analysts/System Programmers 
for our entry-level training program in New York City and 
Princeton, NJ.
REQUIREMENTS
Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, computer 
science, engineering and/or mathematics background, at 
least two semesters or equivalent programming coursework and 
knowledge of C, Pascal, Fortran or similar language.
INTERESTED?
Please send a cover letter and resume to Stacey Marx 
at Bloomberg L.P, Software Development Recruiting, 
499 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10022 by March 4th. 
Please indicate preference between tentative Interview dates 
of March 21 or 30 in New York.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Speak to your career center representative for our videotape 
and additional written materials.
ATTENTION: STUDENTS WHO HAVE 
TAKEN ONE OR MORE COURSES 
WITH AN H&SS FACULTY MEMBER
The H&SS Dean's Office invites you to suggest names of 
H&SS faculty members for the College's 1993-1994 
Elliot Dunlap Smith Award for Distinguished Teaching 
and Educational Service. Past winners of this award 
include:
1993 Richard Young
1992 Peter Steams, History
1991 Ann Hayes, English
1990 Margaret Clark, Psychology (1990 University Ryan
Award Co-Winner)
1989 Richard Smith, Social and Descision Sciences
1988 Richard Schoenwald, History (1989 University Ryan
Award Winner)
1987 Joel Greenhouse, Statistics (1987 University Ryan Award
Winner)
1986 Ludwig Schaefer, History (1986 University Ryan Award
Co-Winner)
1985 Lois Fowler, English
1984 Steven Klepper, Social and Decision Sciences
1983 Preston Covey, Philosophy
1982 Michael Weber, History (1983 University Ryan Award
Winner)
1981 John R. Hayes, Psychology
1980 Granville Jones, English (1980 University Ryan Award
Winner)
A detailed description of the award criteria is available in the H&SS Aca­
demic Advisory Center (Baker Hall 161). Students and faculty should send 
letters and other relevant items to Dr. Joseph Devine, Associate Dean of 
H&SS, Baker Hall 161 (e-mail address:jd0x).
H&SS Departments will submit nominations by March 31. Thus, letters 
from you that would contribute to a department's descision about their 
faculty nominee should be submitted as soon as possible.

---------------------------------------------------

T TT TTl T rSiwanraramEMinra
LIVlliVj
Volume 88, Issue 17The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania14 February 1994
Ple asPUNIO,sp g4JPi 
mOpSUan lUISm
!w* '‘‘WW1 'iHW xm>f T % ‘i ^3:it: *
AFRICAN AMERICAN CROUP 
CELEBRATES ITS HERITAGE
SHANNON GIBNEY
'artan Staffwriter
fn an environment like the one here at 
MU, it is very easy to become com- 
etely preoccupied with one’s own ex- 
erience, and completely forget about 
her experiences unfamiliar to our own, 
Sell can be both expanding and excit- 
gif we only give them a chance, or even 
uos of their existence.
One such “invisible” organization that 
sters such understanding and new ex- 
jriences is BFASA, or the Black Fac- 
ty and Staff Association.
Although most of us have probably not 
>ard of BFASA, it is nevertheless a 
sry prevalent and powerful force on 
impus, as it sponsors and organizes 
lany activities and programs through- 
lt the school year.
It was created in August of 1992 in 
jsponse to an overriding feeling that 
iany of African-American staff and fac­
ulty here at CMU were fragmented, dis­
jointed, and completely unfamiliar with 
each other.
Lisa Lipscomb, Assistant to the Dean 
of Student Affairs, and Carolyn Manley, 
Program Assistant, recognized this void 
and began exchanging ideas with other 
black employees from all over campus.
In a very short time, they had about 
60 interested members, and BFASA was 
bom.
“Every month we have a general body 
meeting.... That’s the time for people to 
bring ideas to the table, talk to each 
other, and evaluate.... BFASA is a ve­
hicle for ideas, expansion, or whatever 
you want it to be. If you want to just 
come to general body meetings you can, 
or if you want to play a more active role, 
you can do that too,” said Lipscomb.
In playing a more active role, Lipscomb 
was referring to the myriad of commit­
tees and programs that BFASA orga­
nizes and coordinates.
Past events have included the fashion 
show that was presented at last October’s 
International Festival, the recent MLK 
day celebration, the ’70s Flashback party 
last weekend, and the vendor fair in the 
front of Skibo that kicked off Black His­
tory Month.
In observance of Black History month, 
BFASA has scheduled a speech entitled 
“History, Identity and Empowerment” 
by Ken Garrison on February 14th in 
the Wherret Room.
In addition, the “Sounds of Heritage” 
Spiritual Group will perform on Febru­
ary 17 in the Skibo Ballroom (for more 
information look for flyers, or check out 
the org.bfasa bboard).
“Everything we do is a celebration of 
Black History,” Lipscomb said. “Wl$&t 
we’ve done with SPIRIT [an African 
American student organization on cam­
pus] is expand Black History Month 
past February. We have some activities 
planned through March and April, so
that Black History is not only a month.”
Some of these events include poet Vera 
Hubbard, who will speak in the Wherret 
Room on March 17, Susan McElroy, a 
faculty member at the Heinz school, who 
will discuss the historical perspective of 
blacks and whites as it relates to eco­
nomics on March 15 (tentative), and 
coordinating the annual Fashion Show 
with SPIRIT on March 6.
These events are also in celebration of 
National Women’s History Month, which 
is March.
BFASA has also organized a Book 
Club, in which a group of staff members 
get together every month to talk about 
books they read. Sister to Sister is an­
other program in which various female 
faculty and staff members get together 
every month to provide resources, ad­
vice, insights, and networks.
Speaking about Sister to Sister, 
Lipscomb said, ‘That’s been a very posi­
tive and powerful program that’s grown
considerably. Now you can put a face to 
a name and establish connections.” 
During BFASA’s first year, their theme 
was Together We Can Make a Difference. 
“Our theme this year is Lifting as We 
Climb,” said Lipscomb.
“What we’re really trying to do is build 
on each other’s achievements .... The 
more we’re able to help each other, the 
more we’re able to help everyone and 
create a continual chain of friendship 
and support. We’re here for students, 
too, not just faculty; that’s why we’re a 
community.”
Manley added, “It’s not just for Afri­
can-Americans; BFASA is open to ev­
eryone, the whole campus, in fact the 
whole city. BFASA is inclusive, not ex­
clusive.”
She also said that “we have a good 
track record, and we’re growing, because 
of funding and a wonderful group of 
people. We have a long way to go, but 
we’re off to a good start.”
DISCRIMINATION FACED
\FFIRMATIVE ACTION HEAD DEALS WITH ISSUES BEYOND RACE
y JENNIFER BARKIN
irtan Staffwriter
Everett Tademy, the director 
|jf Equal Employment Opportu­
nity and Affirmative Action, is an 
Jiteresting, charismatic person, 
|s well as a delight to interview, 
ji Everett, informed me that the 
|E0 deals with a broad scope of 
fork discrimination issues, such 
& gender, sexual orientation, and 
|vil rights.
j He also works in close proxim­
al with Student Affairs at 
jjarnegie Mellon, and has a lot of 
Jrect contact with the students 
and faculty.
Tademy denies the stereotype 
*iat EEO deals solely with race
issues. The office handles every 
type of discrimination.
“You can’t discriminate at all 
in the work place,” says Tademy. 
There is a type of discrimination 
against white men over 40, caused 
by the belief that once you reach 
40 you are no longer viable.
In addition to handling people 
problems, Tademy does much 
data analysis, which is aided by 
his math minor in college. He 
organizes information so that he
CMU receives, misuse of them 
is causation for debarring.
Tademy also fills out the “EEO
6 Report.” This deals with the 
makeup of the university, 
namely, the numbers of differ­
ent races, genders, etc. in vary­
ing positions.
Tademy is unwilling to take 
all the credit. “There is a large 
group of people on this campus 
who are dedicated to working 
on these problems of discrimi-
can look at the concentration of nation; it’s not just me.”
different races, genders, and age 
groups in the working environ­
ment.
For example, Tademy might 
know the percentage of females 
in higher administration here at 
Carnegie Mellon. One EEO re­
sponsibility is to “serve as liaison 
with government agencies and 
community organizations regard­
ing compliance, grievances, and 
complaints,” Tademy says.
At Carnegie Mellon, Tademy 
personally deals with staff by cre­
ating discussion forums and con­
ducting employee training pro­
grams.
He helps individuals deal with 
issues that they are confronted 
with in the work place. He feels 
that CMU does not “overtly dis­
criminate,” but that there is, 
sometimes, a lack of sensitivity.
One of Tademy’s key roles is 
keeping the University in com­
pliance with civil rights codes. 
Because of the federal dollars
The thing Tademy enjoys 
most about his job is “being a 
change agent: changing the Uni­
versity to welcome people who 
are more diverse.” He likes be­
ing able to take the initiative to 
“remove the barrier” between 
different social classes.
Being a native Californian, I 
asked Everett if there was a 
deviation in the level of dis­
crimination here in Pittsburgh 
as compared to his birthplace.
He replied that in Pittsburgh 
we are facing “benign, not overt, 
discrimination.” In other words, 
people do not always under­
stand or realize when they are, 
in fact, discriminating.
Tademy also takes every op­
portunity to speak and partici­
pate in programs on diversity.
The hardest thing about his job 
is dealing with limited resources 
and trying to form a consensus 
on what changes should be 
made.
yp
fill
SPIRIT PROVIDES FORUM
GROUP BINDS AFRICAN AMERICAN COMMUNITY TOGETH ER
By KRIS HINRICHS
Tartan Assistant Forum Editor
Maybe you’ve seen members 
selling Rice Krispie bars in front 
of the Tartan Grill or went to 
the talent show, SPIRIT Night 
at the Apollo. Perhaps you’ve 
heard chatter about the Afri­
can Heritage Ball. These are 
just a few of
the activities -----------------------
which makes 
SPIRIT a 
highly known 
organization 
on campus.
Now, in the 
mfdst of 
Black History 
Month,
SPIRIT, in 
conjunction 
with BFASA,
Up and coming activities in­
clude two lectures : “History, Iden­
tity and Empowerment” by 
speaker Ken Garrison, Assistant 
Dean at Community College of 
Alleghany County, on February 
14, and on February 15 Dr. 
Walter Williams will lecture on 
the “Government’s Role in a Free 
Society.”
SPIRIT is an opportunity 
“to learn first hand about 
African Americans. ”
— Jennetta Wilcox, 
president of SPIRIT
portant presence that helps ad­
missions give ethnic and other 
minority students something to 
look forward to when they come 
here.” Sophomore Nicholas 
Kennedy joined SPIRIT because 
he felt it “was a good way to meet 
different people of all races.” 
Though Black History Month 
will end in February, Wilcox feels 
that “Black History Month should 
be every month” and has already 
started planning a Jazz Night 
and a Perspectives Dinner, in 
which a speaker talks to students 
about the future, along with an­
nual activities such as Booth and 
Buggy.
is continuing with a list of di­
verse festivities having begun 
the celebration in January with 
Martin Luther King Day.
Black History Month was 
kicked off with a performance 
by Archibald Holland who 
brought the Legacy of Langston 
Hughes to life through poetry 
and dramatizations.
The Legacy of Langston 
Hughes was followed by 
SPIRIT’s third annual African 
Heritage Ball which took place 
at Westin William Penn yester­
day and furnished an evening of 
glamour and romance.__________
Besides a myriad of activities 
includingtutoring, clothes drives, 
a fashion show and intramural 
sports, SPIRIT serves m any func­
tions. It’s a support system, it 
provides a forum to voice con­
cerns about black issues and it 
binds the black community to­
gether through numerous social 
activities.
Jennetta Wilcox, president of 
SPIRIT, described SPIRIT as an 
opportunity “to learn first hand 
about African Americans” and 
that SPIRIT “provides guidance 
for black students.” Wilcox also 
believes that “SPIRIT is an im­

---------------------------------------------------

Now On Sale! 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
We live in the shadow of a giant cookie-cutter that is trying to clone 
I us, to recreate us in the image of a world that has lost sight of
* Truth.What does it mean to be a student, an engineer, an artist, a 
business person, or a parent made in God's image instead of in the 
world's image?
Jubilee 1994 is a conference designed to bring college 
students together with peers and professionals for the 
w express purpose of exploring the implications of living
lout a Christ-centered life. How can we shatter the culture's dis- 
torted cookie-cutter image and live, work and play as the people 
IgA God created us to be?
Come see how at Jubilee ’94. February 25-27 at the Hilton 
Hotel. For information and registration contact Earl at
MEL 862-2118.
Konica Developing & Printing a>
Our everyday low prices 
Prices apply to 31/2" or 4" prints 
from full-fram, 35mm, disc, and 
100C-41 process color print film. 
SALE DATES: 2-14-94 - 2-21-94
Andrea Harris, killed August 26,1991 at 6:00pm on El Camino Real, Atascadero, California. 
Next time your friend insists on driving drunk, do whatever it takes to stop him. 
Because if he kills innocent people, how will you live with yourself?
SPONSORED BY RESIDENCE ÜFE
Do you need to walk across campus at night?
kDpgN NHcU Hps &THp&U,. 
0UN H NiHCpUo ,NSoUpN 
U,&DiN NUHM vHEc vCNT 
sDS. wHEE NTU mHAULHEc 
oC,dHN&TUi Hpo NvD 
U,&DiN, vCEE aU NTUiU 
vCNTCp q MCpSNU,.ydrpJ/s
(X8-7233)10pm - 2am 7 nights a week
“Meeting 
Miss Manners
DINING ETIQUETTE
8ROUGHTTOYOU BY 
TIM FOSTER
bliila
This service is available to students, faculty, and staff on the 
CMU campus. For general information, contact Ray Tseng 
at X2-3736 (rt1e@andrew). For volunteering information, 
contact Nathan Dohm at x2-3434 (nd22@andrew).
9pm MOREWOOD 
GARDENS TV ROOM
ANY QUESTIONS CALL RESIDENCE LIFE X8-2I42

---------------------------------------------------

FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-0$
Valentine's Day causes depression, angst
course on Valentine’s Day they always you’re pathetic. Everyone else is going 
show a huge Valentine of some kind. It out because this is Valentine’s Day. My 
just stays on the screen. Just one huge day. hahahahahahaWl” Then of course
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
For about seven years there’s been 
this -really bad case of just absolute de­
pression setting in a few days before 
February 14. I’m sure that the theme of 
this column, coupled with the tribute to 
Murphy’s Law that is my life, is flat out 
yelling at you, the reader, about the 
subject matter of today’s column.
Yep. You guessed it. Valentine’s Day 
sucks\ (at least from my point of view.) 
Considering that out my dorm window 
I’ve seen numerous people already walk 
lovingly hand-in-hand to wherever 
they’re going, and all of a sudden stop, 
gaze deep into each other’s eyes, and 
play a few quick rounds of tonsil hockey, 
this would normally make me feel quite 
left out, bitter, and somewhat berserk.
Plus, this attitude is all over the me­
dia. You know on holidays between shows 
there’s always some message wishing
Valentine taking up 96 percent of the 
screen. It stands there, silently mocking 
the viewers a happy holiday. And of me. “Hey there pal, no date again? Man,
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-edior
the next show comes on, but the image of 
that heart, plus any accompanying 
cupids, remains burned into the screen
so the next time it-shows up, it’s there 
even brighter than before. And it stands 
there again, silently mocking me.
Personal experience has led me to de­
velop a hypothesis — that Valentine’s 
Day is nothing but a big conspiracy de­
veloped by the florists, chocolate candy 
makers, greeting card companies, and 
construction paper companies. Because, 
of course, in elementary schools across 
America, children are made to cut out 
and paste together X number of 
Valentine’s Day projects, all with the 
bright red and pink construction paper. 
Then there’s so much of it all over the 
floor it looks like a gigantic sea of ... 
Kool-Aid.
And then, of course, comes Valentine’s 
Day, when everybody is supposed to 
bring in a shoebox wrapped in tinfoil to 
drop aU the greeting card company-made 
little dorky Valentines in. I fail to see the 
point of this, because I highly doubt any 
meaningful relationships are going to 
start in elementary school. And at that 
time, of course, all girls have cooties and 
all boys are into booger- related stuff.
Those same greeting card companies 
literally release tons of cards in time for 
Valentine’s Day, complete with those 
loving messages to their sweetie that 
make me want to vomit. I’m not going to 
include, samples here because I cannot 
force myself to type them.
Then come the florists and the choco­
late candy companies. Because obliga­
tory accompaniment to cards are flow­
ers and chocolate candy, with the flow­
ers being incredibly expensive roses, ancl 
the candy all having in some form or 
another a heart shaped box or heart 
shaped pieces of candy.
(Slight pause while the author of this 
column is getting nauseous.)
Thus, all this Valentine’s Day hoopla 
is just a bunch of companies wanting lio 
make a buck. It’s not just limited to 
Christmas anymore. And this all culmi­
nates into the fact that a lot of people; I 
know were bom in November (including 
me)—conveniently placed nine months 
after February.
I think I kind of spoiled every 
Valentine’s Day for my parents aft^r 
that. Yeah, sure, it’s my fault. So, don’t 
let me stop you and your love from hav­
ing a happy Valentine’s Day. Just dori’t 
walk past my dorm window or a heavy 
object might come flying out of it.
Tom Harper, MCS slave to fashion, 
has no choice but to go along with this 
Valentine’s Day stuff anyway. Yes, fie 
had a date last Saturday. Yes, he went to 
a movie with her. Yes, she doesn’t think 
that Tom’s pathetic. And anything else 
is, unfortunately, none of your damn 
business.
Look through this glass of aliens from Highlander
Askew, No Shoes
by Matt Messner
It was an angry sort of snow. 
The kind that refuses to obey the 
laws of air-resistance, insisting 
on bombarding one with the same 
velocity as a mild monsoon.
Iliad finally succumbed to the 
inspirational pep-talk I was 
zwriting myself (the sessions I 
had in the talk window always 
seemed to be one-sided) and felt 
ready to continue.
So there I left the comfortable 
security of my ever auto-respon- 
sive prompt to uncover the secret 
of Highlander and its glassware.
My first clue was the glasses 
themselves. At the bottom of each 
glass is the imprint of a five-sided
star in a spiral. Perhaps the 
glasses were once the member of 
some professional sports team. 
They would be excellent at water 
polo, practically vanishing in the 
pool. This seemed quite viable. 
And the single star. The lone star. 
Certainly they must be indig­
enous to Texas.
Texas was a little, far for me to 
travel in an evening so utilizing a 
method of meditation somewhere 
between what happened to Tron 
and astral projection, I sent my­
self on a trip through the internet.
I arrived relatively unscathed. 
I only had one bad checksum and 
my left foot had not yet appeared.
Secure in the knowledge that I 
had more of my body parts than I 
would’ve had I dismembered 
myself and relied on the airline 
luggage transport to bring me 
there, I hopped around some ag­
gressive tumbleweeds and con­
tinued on my way.
Shortly after, I came across and 
old gentleman who insisted that 
in his time he had sustained war
wounds which made my missing 
foot look like a stubbed toe. The 
materialization of my foot fur­
ther convinced him of the fact.
Not wishing to limit my re­
search to surveying the surround­
ing cacti (they are quite ascetic 
and generally unwilling to talk) I 
struck up a conversation with the 
old fellow.
“I say, old man, can you help 
me with this glass?”
willing to help me?”
“Help ye? Aren’t you supposed 
to help me across the street or 
something?”
“Sir. Point—You are not an old 
woman. Point — I am not a boy 
scout. Point — We are in the 
middle of a desert; there are no 
streets here. Point — Your head 
looks like a very clean carrot...” 
“Okay, okay. What do you want 
to ask me?”
Anyway, with a name like Highlander, 
it only makes sense that they would 
hide something in the subterranean 
bowels of the establishment.
“Ah... I knew ye had no strength 
in ya. You can’t even carry a glass 
unaided. In my time, we used to 
balance five tiers of...”
“Look. If there is no activity 
soon I may be logged out. Are you
“Do you see the bottom of this 
here glass?”
‘Yep. Can I go now?”
“No.”
“Fine, be that way.”
“Have you ever seen a symbol
like this before? This star here, I 
mean.”
“Nah. Might uz well come from 
outerspace far as I can tell.” 
“Thank you ever so much.” 
“Well, what’dya 'spect from an 
old man in the desert?”
And with that I took my leave 
of him and returned to Pittsburgh 
by way of the net, excepting my 
spleen which had grown tired of 
the entire affair and faxed itself 
to a nearby organ and piano re­
pair shop.
Working on the hunch that the 
old man had given me (trust me, 
when you lean over that far you 
shoulder becomes a wonderful 
writing surface) I planned out an 
excavation of the underworld of 
Highlander.
It hadbecome increasingly clear 
that no establishment would be 
able to obtain such a large slave 
labor force of glassware from 
today’s world.
The Highlander glasses must 
be alien. Perhaps the star de­
picted was their home solar sys­
tem.
Anyway, with a name like High­
lander, it only makes sense that 
they would hide something in the 
subterranean bowels of the es­
tablishment.
And sure enough, under High­
lander, there was an enormous 
monstrosity of a space vessel. 
Sure, the employees would have 
me believe that it was only a dish­
washer, but you and I both know 
better.
End of Column. I’ve over­
reached my character quota, (and 
I just don’t want to write any­
more today, nyah, nyah...)
Matt (mmdm+) wonders why 
the English offices are merely la­
beled with “Faculty Offices” 
whereas any other has the subject 
title.
Askew is accepting ghost-writ- 
ers. As long as your text is tan­
gible I might print it. Go on, write 
to me, I’m a nonviolent psycho­
path. Legalize marijuana. Liber­
ate glassware.Walk-in tutoring provides help, reduces stress levels
Tutoring 
schedule
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Contributing Editor
Only several weeks into the semester 
and already falling behind in your 
classes? Maybe you’d be able to catch up 
if only you could find someone to help 
you figure out what it is you’re doing 
wrong.
Professors and TAs are always good if 
yo.n .know what’s wrong and you plan 
ahead, but sometimes you need more 
help than that. What can you do if you 
find out at 9 pm the night before an 
exam that you just plain don’t get it ? Or 
you might find asking those people for 
help just too intimidating. Don’t give 
up hope! There is help available. CMU’s 
Walk-in Tutoring program may be just 
what you need to help you get ahead in 
the classes you find difficult.
Available later into the evening, the 
program offers peer tutoring from stu­
dents around campus who’ve made a 
commitment to help people like you.
With tutoring in physics, calculus, 
chemistry, biology, writing, and even 
study skills; you’re bound to find some­
thing useful that could help you get an 
edge in your classes and feel more con­
fident in your schoolwork.
The tutors are all juniors and seniors 
who have already taken the basic level 
classes of the subjects they tutor, so 
they are more able to understand the 
needs and particular problems of stu­
dents who are struggling in their 
classes. Many tutors get the job through 
faculty recommendations, so they usu­
ally are well versed in the subject at 
hand. Jennifer Trost, graduate history 
student and coordinator for the Walk-
In Tutoring program, says, “The tutors 
work really hard to help students and 
remember what it was like to struggle 
through their own first year of courses.”
The tutors are prepared to help you 
with whatever you might need, explain­
ing underlying concepts, going over 
sample problems or discussing paper 
revisions.
For those of you who seem to be having 
problems studying in general, or who 
maybe just want to find the most effi­
cient ways for you to get your studying
done, the study skills tutor can help you 
figure out just how to do that.
Another useful aspect of the tutoring 
program is that, unlike professors and 
TAs, you don’t need to make an appoint­
ment; and unlike normal tutoring, it’s 
free. These factors make the tutoring 
program highly accessible to even the 
most unorganized or intimidated among 
us. Best of all, though, is the fact that the 
tutors are fellow students, which makes 
them a bit easier to relate to and alot less 
intimidating to approach. Some of them
may even be people you know from 
around campus, which can make for a 
much more relaxed learning environ­
ment. As we’re all well aware of, it’s 
much easier to understand something if 
you’re relaxed and unintimidated.
Don’t wait for the ill results of your 
next exam to convince you to take ad­
vantage of Walk-In Tutoring. Start now, 
while there’s still time to get ahead. The 
tutoring program is available until fi­
nals, every Sunday through Wednesday 
from 8-11 pm.
Sunday
Physics, Calculus 
DH1212
Monday
Physics, Calculus 
DH 1212
Chemistry, Biology 
DH 1209
Writing 
DH 1217
Tuesday
Physics, Calculus 
DH 1212
Wednesday
Physics, Calculus 
DH 1212
Chemistry, Biology 
DH 1209
. Writing, Study Skills 
DH 1217
Mark Eggert/Tàrtan Art Co-editor

---------------------------------------------------

Introducing
Carnegie Mellon's new exchange program 
with ITESM, Instituto Tecnologico y de 
Estudios Superiores de
MONTERREY, MEXICO.
This program is open to all undergraduates 
in CIT, H&SS, MCS and 
the department of Architecture. 
Students may attend for either the fall 1994 or the spring 1995 semester.
*¦
All applicants must have a minimum of two years of college level Spanish or the 
equivalent. 
A six week intensive summer language program will be included at no additional 
tuition cost.
Since this is an exchange program, students will retain their FULL FINANCIAL 
AID package.
Applications and additional information are now available in the Office of 
International Education, 2nd floor Warner Hall. Or call 8-4969 for details.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 18,1994
. .8 O 
rmi
gib 
vt I
•r e O .
Bal fourCa suClRCing
r
• r T.R
9ft,t 
gril
Theirs.Ours.
It started with a vision about propelling business into the information age. Then took off with the world’s first relational database. It’s now a 
billion-dollar, enterprise-wide software solutions company that keeps growing at about 25% a year—with new products, bold technological strategies 
and a head start down the information highway. There’s nothing to do here but grow. You either make history, or become it.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer • Technical Analyst • Consultant • Product Manager
We’ll be on campus February 17-18. E-mail your resume TODAY!
ORACLG
Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: lslynn@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991

---------------------------------------------------

Zeta Sig strives for recognition, despite size
By ERIC J. SALZMAN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
As far as most people at 
Carnegie Mellon know, there are 
four sororities on campus: Kappa 
Alpha Theta, Delta Gamma, 
Delta Delta Delta, and Kappa 
Kappa Gamma.
There are 23 women on cam­
pus who would like to add one 
name to the list of four which 
they believe to be five. Zeta Psi 
Sigma is a local sorority currently 
trying to get recognition at 
Carnegie Mellon.
__The women of Zeta Psi Sigma,
led by current president Alisa 
Levine and founding president 
Julie Saltman-Rosen, are work­
ing hard to gain Panhel’s approval 
as an official Greek organization.
The six founding sisters of Zeta
— Saltman-Rosen, Levine, Jen­
nifer Mack, Jennifer Reed, Priya 
Shrinivasan, and Crystal Trexel
— all formerly belonged to Chi 
Omega, a CMU sorority that lost 
its charter because of low mem­
bership.
According to Zeta’s official his­
tory, on November 7,1992, “Chi 
Omega bid its final farewell to 
CMU’s Omicron Delta Chapter 
at the pinning ceremony held at 
the Top of the Triangle. It was on 
that night that the six women 
decided to say their good-byes to 
Chi Omega, and begin their quest 
to keep alive the sisterhood they 
had found within each other by 
sharing it with other women.”
Zeta is not a new chapter of a 
national sorority. It is a brand 
new house with hopes of some 
day being an established national 
sorority. The women who started 
Zeta were not allowed to begin a 
new chapter of a national soror­
ity because of Panhel regulations.
The establishment of a new 
chapter on campus requires that 
all four other houses have at least 
80 percent of their quota filled.
With Kappa Kappa Gamma not 
currently reaching high enough 
numbers, Zeta cannot even be 
considered for Panhel recogni­
tion. According to Levine, her 
house would be happy with rec­
ognition. While it would not al­
low Zeta to be an official member 
of Panhel or participate in 
Carnegie Mellon’s round robin 
sorority rush, it would mean that 
the house could participate in 
events like booth and Greek 
Sing.
According to a new set of by­
laws, to grant recognition, all 
four members of Panhel must 
fill 80 percent of their quota (40 
women) and vote unanimously 
in favor of recognizing Zeta. 
Also, Zeta must have at least 
two thirds of the quota filled 
(33 women).
With Panhel’s recognition, 
Greek Council would automati­
cally grant the same. Through 
the chain, Student Senate 
would also see Zeta as an offi­
cial Greek organization. The 
unofficial sorority can also gain 
recognition through a vote by 
Greek Council, which includes 
fraternities as well as sorori­
ties. Greek Council can grant 
recognition even if the sorori­
ties do not reach eighty percent 
of their quotas.
Recently, Greek Council took 
the matter into discussion. Be­
fore a decision could be made, 
Panhel's president Joanne 
Kievan spoke to the council, 
stressing the importance of the 
decision belonging to Panhel.
While the members of Zeta wish 
to gain Panhel recognition, they 
also realize that currently, Panhel 
is the organization preventing 
them from participating in Greek 
activities. Founding president 
Saltman-Rosen said, “we’re will­
ing to cooperate with, but not 
obey, Panhel.”
Kievan says that Panhel was 
initially unsure of how to act be­
cause Carnegie Mellon has never 
before had a local sorority. “We 
would be pleased to be able to 
recognize a local sorority in the 
future,” she said. She also ex­
plained the necessity for the ex­
isting sororities to have a strong 
membership before Panhel can 
seek to expand.
According to Kievan, the in­
creasing number of women on 
campus has not had any affect on 
the number of women who rush. 
She does not want any sorority to 
lose its charter because of low 
numbers.
However, in an attempt to im­
prove relations with Zeta, Kievan 
went to the new sorority’s pledge 
night party last Thursday.
Once Zeta gains local Panhel 
recognition, it can then concen­
trate on becoming a national so­
rority.
Both Levine and Kievan be­
lieve that the women of Zeta be^- 
coming a new chapter of an al­
ready existing national sorority 
is more of a possibility than Zeta 
itself becoming a new national 
sorority.
With a first rush this past fall 
that brought in five new pledges, 
and a spring rush that obtained 
seven new pledges, Zeta has 
gained impressive numbers for a 
new sorority.
With only two seniors, mem­
bers of the house hope to have 
over 20 sisters by the end of its
second full year. Levine describes 
Zeta as “a very diverse, individu­
alistic house.” And this “diverse” 
house has been far from idle. 
Shrinivasan, one of the seniors, 
said “Zeta has become a part of 
my life here at CMU that I'm 
going to really miss.”
Many members are singing 
with Alpha Epsilon Pi at Greek 
Sing, and the Zeta formal will be 
held on March 19 at the Westin 
William Penn Hotel in downtown 
Pittsburgh.
The members are still hoping 
anxiously for some sort of recog­
nition as a Greek
ibc.
Features is looking for writers. Opportunities to write fashion 
articles, interviews, lecture reviews, and human interest pieces 
abound. Call Kathy or Tonya at The Tartan Office, 268-2111.
PARIS
SUMMER PROGRAMS 1994 
May 24-June 10 • June 13-July 22 
June 19-July 9 • July 25-August 12 
The Quality Time of Your Life
More than 50 courses from the University's curriculum, offered for credit or non-credit.French Language Immmersion programs in Paris and Biarritz.Weekend excursions to historic regions of France: 
Normandy, Alsace, the Loire Valley, Giverny, 
Chartres, and the French Riviera.
Make this stimi Tier your time 
for neu> beginnings.
Send for out 1994 Summer Programs brochure: 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs / US Office 
80 East 11th Street, Suite 434 
New York, New Yoik 10003 
TdL> (212) 677-4870 Fax; (212) 475-5205
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
OF PARIS
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG •PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
CARLISLE*; 
SHIPPENSBURGp^^YQfl^^ 
CHAMBERSBURG^ 
HAGERSTOWN. MO<J
WASHINGTON. OC Ö j 
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
TORONTO. CANADA
ROCHESTER. NYiSYRACUSE. NY 
CORTLAND. NY
TOI BINGHAMTON. NY NEW „ ENGLAND .TOWANDA S',NEW YORK _ CITY SCRANTON “
WILKES f 
BARRErf
ALLENTOWN WILLOW GROVE
¦HILAOELPHIA KING OF PRUSSIASONTOGYER
CORNING, NY
MANSFIELD
POTTSVILLE 
HERSHEY y/ 
HARRISBURGREADING
SFourte
BALTIMORE. MD
1-800-444-2877
FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll- THE
Junior woman recieves travel award
Vira I. Heinz award gives money, enables students to travel and study in foreign places
By BETHANY SUTTON
Tartan Staffwriter
Where would you travel, and what 
would you study, with $3500? This was 
the question posed to female juniors at 
colleges and universities across the Pitts­
burgh area who competed to receive the 
annual Vira I. Heinz endowment award.
This year, the award went to Jodi 
Finkel, a drama/directing major from 
CMU who plans to travel to Tel Aviv,
Israel.
“My family is ecstatic,” says Finkel, 
who will be the first in her family to visit 
her religious homeland. Bom in a small 
Florida town where she was one of per­
haps three Jews in high school, she never 
knew many Jews her age — mostly, 
Judaism was acquainted with older 
people. “My great-grandparents were
Orthodox, my grandparents are Conser­
vative, and my parents are Reformed... 
so what does that make me?” she won­
ders. “I feel as if I’m floundering.”“I 
think I’m going to find out a lot about 
Judaism and my cultural roots,” says 
Finkel, who hopes the experience will 
enable her to successfully spread her 
knowledge via the production in the 
spring of her senior year of either an 
Israeli one-act or a drama concentrating 
on Jewish issues for studio theater.
Finkel plans to 
attend Tel Aviv 
University’s 
summer ses­
sion, enrolling 
in a Beginner’s 
Level Hebrew 
class in order to 
gain “a working 
knowledge” of 
the language. Hopefully, she says, it 
will help her better understand and ap­
preciate performances by the Habimah 
National Theatre, Cameri Theatre, and 
J. Khan Theatre that she plans to see. 
As for her travel plans, Finkel planned 
on visiting the United Kingdom, but the 
cost of a British visit was too great. 
Instead, armed with a backpack and
hiking boots, she has decided to stay in 
youth hostels across Israel. There, she 
would like to place a prayer in the “Wail­
ing Wall” in Jerusalem, visit Caeseria’s
2,000 year-old outdoor amphitheater, 
bargain with merchants in Beersheva’s 
Bedouin Market, and float on the Dead 
Sea. “Most of all I look forward to speak­
ing with the citizens of the Israel,” she 
says. She would also like to take a short 
boat trip to Greece and stand on the 
steps of the amphitheater in Athens, 
experiencing the very beginnings of the­
ater.”
According to Allison Riley, Assistant 
to the Dean of Students Affairs and 
coordinator of the program, Finkel’s se­
lection was “not based on any set num­
ber of criteria.”
The candidate entered into a “very 
competitive process,” in which they sub­
mitted their study, travel, and financial 
plans for a period of at least six weeks, in 
addition to three recommendations, to a 
committee of six members of the faculty, 
administration, and student body. The 
written essay was then followed by a 
personal interview with the committee. 
The woman who had the most unique, 
detailed, and realistically planned pro­
posal was chosen.
“I think I’m going to find out a lot 
about Judaism and my cultural 
roots.”
— Jodi Finkel

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Balf our*ALfEaLN- RD
by Mark Kanlrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
oil the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
•the other letters. For 
^example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
-three steps: LEAD, LOAD. 
•GOAD, GOLD.
HEWZEA^NO.
BY RAMSEY HONG- HOW ® FEBRUARY ^
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
AIT rights reserved
'A Taste of the Himalayas'
HOUSE OF YAK
(not to be confused with "the Yak Shack")
Appetizers
Yackety-Yak(Don't come back)
Snow Cones(Ample serving of snow on a cone)
Sherpa's Delight(Back by popular demand)
Yak Attack(Outrageous!)
Sweet 'n Sour Yak Soup (Hot, Hotter, Volcano)
Yak Eyes(Tibetan Speciality)
Yak McNuggets(Imported)
Yak Balls(Deep Fried)
Yin-Yang Yak(Good for the soul)
Entrees
Whacked Yak(Yak that's been hit good)
Yeti Spaghetti(Blgfoot In Marinara Sauce)
Yak Surprise (Shocked Yak) Seafood Platter(Salted Yak)
Roast Chicken(Tastes like Yak)Rampant Yak (Unaescribable) Sirloin of Yak(Rare, More Rare, Raw)
Prime Yak(Ribs)
Every night is 
'Yak Nite" at the 
House of Yak!
Vegetarian and 
Diet Yak selection 
available!ALOHA,
ALOHA? TOBE CONTINUED.
TheaCC opyp\ Spq uipur lS 
HOon u\heoxf sou dohHtI'M TOO BOSS TO EXPLAIN 
TH\S STUFF/ INE GOT 
IMPORTANT WORK TO 00/ 
VER.Y \tAP0RTAUT7 J
OBVIOUSLS, WERE ...UM. 
WELL „UH..HERE'S THE LATEST POLL 
OH W PERFORMANCE 
AS DAO. SOUR APPROVAL 
RATING \S PROTI LOW, 7 
ITA AFRAID_______
TUATS BECAUSE THERE'S NOT NECESSARI ANS CONNECTION 
BETWEEN WHAT'S GOOD AND WHATS 
POPULAR. I DO WHAT'S RIGHT,
NOT WHAT GETS ,____ —^
.. APPROVAL. J
Sou’ll neser 
KEEP TUE JOB 
WITH THAT 
ATTITUDE . >
IF SOMEONE ELSE 
OFFERS TO DO IT, 
LET ME KNOW.
WHO ARE WE RACING ?
I 4o Noi BEUfcVE iN LiNE^R
Time, there is No p<*s+
FutuRE: qLL |S ONE, QN<4 
EXiS+EMCE iN WE tEMPoRqL SENSE 
IS ARROCoKWI THiS OUE^tioN, 
+UEREfoRE, iS ME^NiVAGL^SS QNc\ iMpoSSi&LE SNSwER.
WEIL, REMEMBER WHAT SOU 
SA\0, BECAUSE \U A DAS 
OR TWO, I'LL HAVE A W\TTS 
AND BL\STER\NG RETORT/ 
SOU'LL BE DEVASTATED 77/fiV, 
I PROMISE/
WHEN IN DOUBT, 
DENS ALL TERMS 
ANO DEFlN\T\ONS
I MIVg I RsPks bgIwv sW mhcplumd kIw/V 
Df sw bg/ V'sbt1. 'What important event took 
place on December 1G, 1773 ?
Vhe\ HHOSdp\S u\p qmh ec\eCS
Sou SHOULD WAX THEM ANO MAKE 
-, A HANDLEBAR MUSTACHE _
SOU'D THINK A GUS WHO CLEANS 
HIMSELF WITU H\S TONGUE
MheCx lp hrpo qh n\hhcOon_____SUGGESTIONS ___________-
GOODUtSS, HOW D\D 
SOU GUSS EVER UVE 
LONG ENOUGH TO 
INSENT TOOLS ?
OK. \TS 
HARDER 
THAN IT 
LOOKS.

---------------------------------------------------

fHli k)e£K, IfJ HOUDR Of 
v^LEiOfiAJEi :dav, 10e oii_u ic 
SH0Ol/J^ 'THrMA'Tiflfc 'Ri'fMLS OF 
CATS /UJD s|J(J(JIETS¦ ¦ ¦'Ri'fTER
pSnt’s
emmm m amep m EbySe m. I mr reet firm th
¿ove, MirmecfiBBMe.. 
¿mmex awteeo. rrs m ate crnmrw a upji^sbOF CHAOS. V~by IfGetouhclsr.'imdBAncchn
¿M3 SHOlO 1'WE/R ArFCOTiOU -TtiWOtM 
HAWV' HEMi. -SOMf-TiMES -THEY M£AlJ/W6FlA- frlf-T5- _________
OflJER 'I'/MES,-THEV NION,p 
lJUaauC OifH fHEm FOREHEADS.
g/B/f I dOODeVaE . it mvsel.f; y
UHH-
<Hawj<5 I
• SHElLAy I 
DOW'f H/OOlOiOH4r -ro 
, w- >
CV)W&MXmtlK 
tmtib uewivajKexpeKietice a tmtti am-met
% jwaaes AtM»< oamMKNbAume 
—a CFirmwum/
dU/JOlES, op f nr OfHER HAMD. Qlu, 
EM?LOY MORE' ESOTERIC DEVICES-¦¦
What’s a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
you del "veMAxe""] I”
punchline. tV\ +Wfirs+- paoeij tV\e res+of 
•fV comic is useless, j if
GakvES THAT. CNTER. TO OGL^PfclMAL. 
MALfc STEeEOTHPtS'. K\tl THE MOBSTER1. 
bLOlM STOFF op! Gr£ftSTrtEGOL\>'.RESCOt 
THE UELPV-fcSS PfcvS\CESSv MARX MS v/OGRDS 
XT’LL -$e N \)fr\ vjken/ TWt CoUMTM's WIN bM \\
, PEOPLE. STOPVE\Et> INTO 
r I I } SO^tAV.S^\OKi -E>"\ ¦S»V\\CL <\ J / THE VVEv>frEV>CCs AUO kUS <\ ¿3» /5-O-P.Ot^ ASLf-tt OP CREATIVE.
PUrilNG- Ska 
v HOH7 ^
How t5At>. A GENERATION ENWWCET>BS 
OJEfcPSlCED \J\CE6 &P-VAES. CWUDREM EmE^H- 
WV\ERE VMPSTVNCr 'SbR.AVN ?OWER. ONi 
Vp$\x> E.XERCV3ES \t^ SvWoW)-5vM»K(i-\NG- 
AWD &UEN-BIASTING: i\U_ fAO*.E
V- .THAM PACVCA&ED CUCtTCS WITH
 Crfcfc?V\VC.S ANt> /—^
I AUNOHlMV MUS\C./,f-|TT
¿M3SHOl 1'WE. : V\OH?
/ NeaH . Uovrvl \ 
*JE QOIET. \ 
I'M AlHOST 
?N^T THETX5AGOWS 
IK NT "e>?EATHt , 
\ Fire AT /\ SOU.
ny ajf.bcS
S* NoVAi 1*>E \—
F QO\El 1‘ IA ^ ALMOST PAST THt 
VAO^v^MS THAT 
V ?OV.t O^ ^00 /
/RH•LAyIw/ THAT, BlCOD- 
SViCViir^Ci- 
•v TREAK'.
BeHiiut) ue '/on set 7H£
gE/HWfttOT5. OF TWIT 0*J(^e
pRouP c^ujajer iv oirY
^»C> H6- Jy^T H5? >!
TUAF c (TV, PA '5 IVIT^I'OC’ 
tl»JlVEV> -Tube fc- PjpE 
ConPfltVi "/OAtioaIAl wolds'',.rp5 ^ -n>ufc op 
SoaAu HiST0(J-V StuDekITS 
1=doM -THf UMl/£WiTy I ¦. IKl MlUE/ts HUS.. )
^WH/tT |fj THE lV0(UX>
is "THIS SUPP^fD , 
V To BE7.
/—---------
No ::
- >S—a-GG/ gqT I
Get the STi-Auoc 
^reeuiut. i'm Hem"
A E M Lo&iiro
r-A 0£F6tl£: I'M /J \ ne AD. /
0 CAUTION
wo OPfN Pu/VH£S 
OR. WEcPIWC
...UKJFbfl-pUMTeLV, THts IS
AiuT? HEi- FAn?" (S Btiwt. T5e-
Ctpeto &/ TMf C.E® u. SCt Coilp.
1H£ foLP£5t
syMBei. or-
u/rtic+f <5 
TH^ MJ6HT/ 
0i-MT TU/2-— 
WirCE-,
THtr ULTIMATF 
l*J 19^0'5 
¦STE€l *Pr£t>4„
6iMTLEIV\eKJ} ^ F4THEI2-, THE 
pcUfJi>E(I of UmiteD TaSe 
a PiPt, gluDJbR CTlC khpu 
pkCtO (w.y SAiwTeO 
Mo-th^. >5T -THP WEKT iTCMl ©w T>)t lUNFLlE
(L/wPc?I is 
Davi dLo-vt'’ VuiL- 
KJAce a-t cut?.
AJATto/OAL ?tM)T.y
unnnm,
UTy TOWER., 
niLLEllis FAllS
nya Yyd OTHee. yOhlf 
msa biugwsC VAi)TSTt? seu_ XHe
-fo WAL'MA^T.
IP "TNt STEFLWO^tg^S' LilOiotJ
WEiif To 0ay the P<lAhJT; 
AS They ?£o?ob-e] TkAT 
&lA5T ^'=H(2.*>A.CE La>ai_l> 
SejTS HEvWz-----------------x
x Srr CTsw
ST/2.AM6E 'FEEL-
iu6 dHuntMh Been 
FoZt Sf-/A^ovJeO,,,
Tarta nNaae wssEdio
fofL. /I- jLALVflUG C&t... 
MnUFsJ­vc sn iAJ5.Pi/2t
A aV Tr/£ sgdenMBDww t
S.TtEiwoiK«S.4 
KDIOI'J 
Lodi. I'i'S I.M
(

---------------------------------------------------

In medieval times, a suit of armor often 
served as a family’s message center.
z:oCOcc<
“Well, as usual, there goes Princess Luwana — always 
the center of attention.... You know, underneath that 
outer wrap, she’s held together with duct tape.”
Tartan«Cross
by Jeffe Boats
ki*2.*3
42
ACROSS 
1. Applaud 
5. Alright
8. Wheel component
9. Citrus fruit
12. Buttress
13. Unreserveds
14. Nirvana album:
In_______
16. Belly
17. Didn't play
18. Sighs
19. HOH 
22. Fellow
24. Is indebted
25. Contest
26. Pick up
29. Know
30. Flying rodents
31. Hint
32. Chief
33. Stylist's shop
34. Place
35. Mouse
36. Recitation leaders
37. Tranquility 
39. Horns
41. Tear down
45. Fit in
46. Equally
47. Over there
48. Lairs
Last Week's Answers
DOWN
1. Hat
2. 61
3. Alcoholic beverage
4. Skins
5. Singer Guthrie
6. Quercus alba
7. Chivalrous warrior
9. Paddle
10. Wildebeests
11. Comparative suffix 
13. Moist
15. ____ and feathers
18. Single
19. Chinese cooking pan
20. Wonder
21. Bombshell
22. Passageway
23. Units of area
25. Mistake
26. Complete set
27. Twosome
28. Studyroom
30. Gamble
31. Provide service
32. Lawfully
33. Amniotic, e.g.
34. Window feature
35. ____Al-Ghul
36. Brand of soda
37. Actor Sean
38. Unit of work 
40. Bathroom
42. Blvd.
43. Buddhism offshoot
44. Existence
kNt>SLEAP
POMv|
ONE
FEST
EATfc
AGAS
SETH
TREd
SIR? SOMEONE 
in JUST LO&bED ON 
=-),! TO THE COMPUTER!
NOT LATELY. siR,WHOseTHAT'S NOT POSSIBLE! ICHANGED THE. PASSWORD
CpyS fPyS lMMEg
HONEY, YOU W0Ù0
bMSSMuTHAN TO < ASK. ME THAT...
LET MEHONEY, HAVE YOU SEENMYMKE 
ASSAULT PISTOL?
OLUEN0R1H?
GREAT. 
NOW I'M GOING TO 
HAVE TO KILL 
YOU.
Otay : 
Amfcas- 
sadonsy Ukeday.
TO GIVE YOU DETAILS IS TANTAMOUNT TO COMPROMISING NA­TION ALSECURTTY. IT'S STRICTLY NEED-TOmiO.
APE YOU60- 
___INGTOee-.
WHAT?
I PONT GET IT, SIR. WHYUJOULD 
OLUE NORTH NEED A BOPY- 
GUARP?
OF COURSE I CAN... IT 
GAYS... GOOD GOP! \
WHAT IS IT, 
SIR?
rVE BEEN TAPPED FOR A DANGEROUS, 
HI6HLY SENSITIVE COVERTOPERATION!
HERE, EAT THIS HONEY- I'VE GOT TO
SIR., ARB UIE60ING SOMEPLACE WARM?
THE COLONEL'S GOT ENEMIES - POWERFUL- r~
ENEMIES! Ie
WELL, SO FARTHEY'REMOSTLY IMAGINARY, BUT 
THATCOULP CHANGE.
WHAT AN INANE QUESTION, HONEY...
BUT I'M YOUR 
TRUSTED CONFI­
DANTE, SIR!
WHO WAS THATON THE COM-
I’M NOTAT LIBERTY TO SAY, HONEY...
YOU'RE ALSO A CHINESE NATIONAL..
HJHAT WITH YOUR NEW JOB, 1 CANT SEE HOW IVBE ANYTHING BUT 
IN THE ÙUAY,
MY INSTRUCTIONS WERE TO TREAT THIS MISSION ASA 
HI6HLY SENSITIVE NATIONAL SECURITY MATTER!
SIR, I HAVE SOME BAD NEWS. I'VE DECIDED TO RETURN TO MY 
HOMELAND...
ALSO, THIS IS SUCHSHORT NO­TICE I'LL HAVE TO KEEP YOUR SECURITY DEPOSIT. AND MAKE SURE THE WHOLE GARAGE ¡5 SPIC; ANDSPAN BEFORE YOU LEAVE!
OKAY, BUT I WANT ALL YOUR KEYS BACK..
YOU'VE BEEN HIRED AS MUS- CLE, HAVENT T^^POOLYOU, SIRI OPPIANO- / WIRE .WILLJ0ÜÊK YA, HONEY? A
IT'S NO USE 
BEGGING METO STAY, SIR. NO, NO,
I THIS WORKS
k / OUT FINE.

---------------------------------------------------

llíf ÍN Will
HOW TO 
COPE WITH 
EARTHQUAKE 
AFTERSHOCKS
©»q<^
151 MAtl"ELECTRIC MOUSE
by f£.obF’RESEZNTS'' T(iermcifcca.i~ SmuJiH
W UHAPPETI2IM6 M>V£MTO/l£s oF rHS
¿t, PA/IP ¿JWJE

---------------------------------------------------

E/LTH 
ITIriESS
Wednesday, February 16 
10am - 4pm 
Skibo Ballroom
Demonstrations
• Fitness Boxing
• Slide Aerobics
• Modern Dance
• Competitive Ballroom Dancing
Weight Loss & Wellness Info
Jenny Craig Representative
Sponsored by Health Awareness, Doctors of Carnegie & Athletics
• Diabetes Testing
• Electrocardiograms
• Blood Pressure Testing
• Grip Strength Testing
• Cholesterol Testing
• Body Fat Testing
• Vision Testing
• Chiropractic Screening
WE WANT YOU FOR YOUR BRAIN
Don’t waste it. Join the HOTTEST company in the Solar System,
Benefits: Industry Pioneer See Us: Sign-up at Warner Hall 19Industry Pioneer 
Great Income 
Cool Place to Work 
Close to the Beach... 
Surf to Work
Sign-up at Warner Hall 19 
On Campus Interview 
Friday, February 18 
Pre-interview Packets Available 
at Career Services
Quarterdeck Office Systems, 150 Pico Boulevard, Santa Monica, CA 90405 (310) 392-9851 Fax (310) 314-4219

---------------------------------------------------

by DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Staffwriter
How often do we CMU students get 
a chance to reflect on our accomplish­
ments as a community? It seems that 
* so little of our time is spent admiring 
the wonderful talents of our fellow 
students.
Well, the Hewlett Gallery is offering 
¡ a great chance to rectify this problem 
with the presentation of Gluppity Glup.
»Also Schloppity Schlopp, a collection 
of paintings by Josette Ghiseline and 
sculptures by Chris Siefert.
Both second-year Master of Fine Arts 
J students, Ghiseline and Siefert dis­
play a great fervor towards experi- 
¦' menting with new ideas. Chris Siefert’s 
; work incorporates found hardware to 
-create everything from large complex 
beasts to small wooden blocks. He 
' takes inspiration from such diverse 
things as freeway interchange ramps 
;to children’s stories.
Josette Ghiseline leans more to­
wards uniformity in her works. She 
exploits the simplicities of geometric 
forms only to shatter their conven­
tional. appearance with varied color 
schemes.
Ghiseline and Siefert compliment 
each other’s artistic sensibilities nicely. 
They share an affinity for use of space
/UvEUNN U2TCaCN CpNiCtSU,
and leave a lot of their work’s mean­
ings to the observer’s imagination. 
Neither of them, however, allow the 
observer’s imagination to produce any 
interpretation that might be dry or 
bland. The sheer power and attention 
to the overall effect exhibited in the 
works guarantees against this.
Something like Chris Siefert’s 
“Freight Train, each car looks the 
same” can be seen as anything from 
children’s building blocks to actual 
freight cars. Yet, either of these per­
spectives cannot take for granted the 
feeling that the connected bodies seem 
to be just taking off into the air. The 
same goes for Josette Ghiseline’s 
“Striae.” It decimates any orthodox 
standard of painting by appearing as 
if the image has practically exploded 
off of the canvas and left the entire 
structure a collage of tattered bits.
This exhibit is well worth seeing. 
Not only will it open any individual’s 
mind to a beautiful collection of im­
ages, but it will reinforce the fact that 
we can be exposed to some great talent 
without even having to leave campus.
Gluppity Glup. Also Schloppity 
Schlopp will be shown at the Hewlett 
Gallery in CFA from February 7-19. 
Admission is free and the gallery is 
open from 11:30 am-5:00 pm on week­
days and 1 pm on Saturday.
Andrew McDermott /Tartan Photographer
mDMU DA VTC,UECpU Hpo mCUAUiNI, vDic pDv ,TDvCpt HN NTU /UvEUNN 
VHEEUisg, Gluppity Glup. Also Schloppity Schlopp.
Todd creates disturbing fun
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
From its first few moments to its frenzied finale, Sweeney 
Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street proves itself a show not 
to be missed. The stage, a huge, dirty looking affair, amazed 
me as the front curtain rose like a garage door and exposed the 
gritty world of industrial era London.
The musical, written by Hugh Wheeler and Stephen 
Sondheim, is a disturbing thriller about the wrongfully im-
fairs full of detail and darkness. The actors rant and rave * 
atop small platforms over 10 feet from the ground and still, 
maintain composure while the audience perches at the edge J 
of their seats, hoping they don’t slip off. The music is also * 
wild and dark and almost operatic in its range and power,1 
Full of loud drums and augmented by the occasional blaring* 
air-horn, the music creates a mood that you can’t soon forget.
The only problems I noticed concerned the acoustics. The 
orchestra, while powerful, was too loud, and often drowned 
out some of the singers, especially when two people sang a£* 
prisoned Sweeney Todd and his plans for revenge. Starring the same time. Also, the air-horn, which was used to signal; 
Christopher Chew as Todd and Tina Benko as Mrs. Lovett, the scene changes, was horribly loud. Though frightening, the;, 
work moves at a,frantic pace that may be hard to follow but play itself is jarring enough without a horn blaring every;
never hard to enjoy. The play’s company, 
including Brandon Williams as Mr. Fogg 
and Dondr6 Greenhouse as the 
Birdseller, doubles as the narrators and 
stage crew and does a laudable job at 
moving in and out all of the elaborate, 
moving sets, including the bakehouse 
that rises from the floor.
Directed by Tony Award-winner J. 
Ranelli and composer and arranger Jerry 
Dantry, Todd is a tightly staged show 
full of magic and murder. The stage, full 
of imaginative scenes that sometimes 
seem to be sketched into space, is dark 
and brooding while still maintaining a 
sense of reality. For example, Todd’s 
barbershop, over Mrs. Lovett’s meat-pie 
cafe, is lit with what looks like sunlight 
throughout the play. In this brightly lit 
world, we are reminded constantly, evil 
and revenge are exacted twice as easily 
and a hundred-fold more gruesomely.
Benko and Chew, wonderful actors in 
their own right, are wonderfully comple­
mented by Tobias Ragg (David Norona) 
a young boy who becomes attached to 
Mrs. Lovett, and the evil Judge Turpin 
(Britt Nichols), Todd’s hated enemy. 
Sweeney Todd is a play full of mystery 
and death, and the actors portray this 
idea incredibly well.
The sets themselves seem rickety af-
fifteen minutes.
The actors on stage slide 
around each other fluidly 
and the scene changes are 
brisk and expert. However*' 
the musical deals with mur-r; 
der and revenge in such a; 
way as to disturb even the ;1 
mostjadedof audience mem- 
bers. However, this maca-^.; 
bre tone creates a play both 
exciting and disturbing to ; 
watch.
Sweeney Todd perform 
mances continue on Febru­
ary 16-19 and February 22- 
26 at 8pm. There will be 
matinees at 2pm on Febru­
ary 19 and 26. Student tick­
ets are $7 with each student 
ID and are available at the 
Kresge box office.
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer 
FCpH 'UpcD Hpo wTiC,NDdTUi wTUv ,THuU NTU aUHio DA 
H 0DpoDp uCEEHtUi dEHsUo as 'iHpoDp LCEECHM,.
Sweeney Todd 
rates 4 out of 4 masks
9&DS,NC& UpNUiNHCpUi Up&THpN, ,NSoUpN,
By DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Staffwriter
To millions of television viewers and 
radio listeners, her voice is instantly 
recognizable. National advertisers such 
as McDonald’s, Hallmark, Stouffer’s, 
Heinz, and United Airlines rely on her
courtesy of G. G. Greg Agency 
'HiaHiH 'HCEUs /S&TCp,Dp UpNUiNHCpUo 
wQ• ,NSoUpN, HN mcCaD 'HEEiDDM.
all-American, spirit-stirring voice to 
reach out and touch the emotions (and 
pocketbooks) of consumers. She jokes 
that her greatest hits include “When 
You Care Enough To Send The Very 
Best,” “I Like It Smooth ... I Like It 
Slow,” and her duet with Michael Bolton 
“Good Times — Great Taste.”
She is Barbara Bailey Hutchison— 
entertainer and songwriter, and she 
graced Skibo with her spirit-stirring 
voice Friday night. Her music blends the 
best of rock, folk, and country, all per­
formed with one of the most beautiful 
voices to ever grace a college campus.
We saw a full range of emotion in this 
one-woman show Friday night. Her songs 
ranged from “the darker side of love” 
ballads, to tear-jerking songs about the 
death of loved ones, to positive energy 
tunes, to sweet, peaceful lullabies. Her 
strong acoustic guitar performance made 
up for lack of a band, and she also gave 
a great self-accompaniment on key­
boards. But the strongest part of her 
show was her completely flawless voice.
“Sincere” may be the best word to 
describe this performer, but, unfortu­
nately, “sappy” comes close as well. Her 
message was heart-felt, but a little too
much for a college crowd on a Friday 
night. Perhaps the world of jingles has 
left her overpowered with the need to 
express something meaningful, instead 
of simply “What You Want Is What You 
Get...”
Barbara Bailey Hutchison is a beauti­
ful, talented, energetic performer. It 
makes it all the more a shame that such 
talent is wasted on fast food and greet­
ing cards. But college campuses are en­
joying her shows, and the audience at 
Skibo was no exception.
Barbara Bailey Hutchison 
rates 3 out of 4 notes
The Diversions 
Rating System
-Excellent, a must see 
icAck -Very Good, see if possible 
kk -Fairly Poor 
k -Whoa, that’s bad.
Dance Alloy explores experimental works of Japanese dance at City Theater
By KEEGAN FOLK
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Japanese movement-the- 
ater artists Eiko and Koma per­
formed at the City Theater 
Wednesday, February 9-Satur- 
day, February 12. They performed 
a one-hour long piece, Wind, and 
the Dance Alloy premiered 
Bream, which was choreographed 
for the troupe by Eiko and Koma. 
These Japanese choreographers/ 
Performers were brought to Pitts­
burgh through the collaborative 
efforts of the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council, Dance Alloy and City 
Theater.
I did not know what to expect 
when I went down to City The­
ater for the Wednesday night per­
formance. Dance Alloy is known 
i for its energetic and exciting style 
and Japanese dance is often very 
slow and deliberative. How were 
these diametrically opposed 
styles going to mix? I couldn’t 
even begin to speculate, especially 
when Wind began.
The first piece was performed
by Eiko, Koma, and their five- 
year-old son, Shin Otake.
It opened with Koma, the man, 
kneeling on the stage strewn with 
feathers, holding a bow and ar­
row. Ten minutes later, he shot 
the arrow. A moment after that, 
Koma and his son were on stage 
holding arrows. Fifteen minutes 
later, they dropped the arrows. 
Sounds dull, doesn’t it? Somehow 
it isn’t, though.
With the music, “the result of a 
collaboration with Native Ameri­
can composer, Robert Mirabal” 
and the incremental movements 
of the performers, I found myself 
drawn in.
At first, I found myself think­
ing that I wasn’t going to be able 
to sit through an hour of watch­
ing someone move an inch every 
minute or so, but soon I forgot the 
time and was mesmerized by the 
strength and beauty of their 
movements.
Eiko and Koma are at their 
best when they are on stage to­
gether. Eiko has a fluidity of mo­
tion that Koma does not possess,
courtesy of City Theatre
jCcD Hpo hDMH Cp Wind
but when they move together, 
their talent as choreographers is 
shown to great advantage.
In the climactic section of 
Wind, Eiko and Koma are lying 
on the stage, among the feathers,
their nude bodies con­
torted into positions 
that are uncomfort­
able to watch. The bag­
pipe music recalls for 
me the story of bag­
pipes being used in 
war in order to scare 
off the enemy. The 
bagpipes sound like 
air raid sirens and the 
dancers on the stage 
are writhing painfully. 
I cannot help but to 
recall Hiroshima, 
Nagasaki, and even 
the Holocaust.
Throughout the per­
formance, Eiko’s frag­
ile beauty belies the 
massive strength re­
quired to move with 
such excruciating 
slowness. She is some­
how simultaneously horrifying 
and enchanting. Koma lacked the 
same feeling of strength combined 
with fragility that made Eiko’s 
movement so beautiful. His move­
ments were slow and deliberate,
though not nearly as expressive.
Wind came to an end and Dream 
began. I don’t know how often 
Eiko and Koma choreograph for 
other dancers, but I got the sense 
that it is not something they do 
often.
Choreographers usually adapt 
their style to the dancers they 
choreograph for, but such was 
not the case with Dream. Maybe 
the intent was to give the Dance 
Alloy something absolutely oppo­
site to the style in which they 
usually perform, but I could not 
help but feel that this was a piece 
that could have been much more 
successfully performed by danc­
ers trained in the style that Eiko 
and Koma employ.
The Dance Alloy is a very ath­
letic troupe, and while Eiko and 
Koma’s style does require great 
strength, it also requires a cer­
tain restraint that I feel the Alloy 
dancers lack.
I was impressed with the idea 
of doing this piece, but not by the 
actual performance. Maybe it was 
spoiled by seeing Eiko and Koma
immediately beforehand, but 
Dream was simply not techni­
cally, nor aesthetically interest­
ing.
Despite the hot and cold as­
pects of the evening, the Dance 
Council, Dance Alloy and City 
Theater must be congratulated 
for such an ambitious effort. More 
of such collaborations can only 
improve Pittsburgh’s innovative 
dance scene.
Wind
rates 4 out of 4 masks
Dream
rates 2 out of 4 masks
DIVERSIONS

---------------------------------------------------

006FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-
Thursday, February 17
Bad Lieutenant
Academy Award-nominee Harvey Keitel stars in 
this intense and gripping crime thriller. In a contro­
versial performance, Keitel plays a gambler, thief, 
junkie, and killer — who also happens to be a cop. 
While investigating a brutal crime, he succumbs to 
the personal demons that threaten to destroy him. 
Living on the edge, he spirals downward, becoming 
a badge out of control, the streets’ biggest fear, and 
eventually, his own worst enemy.
Shot in an almost rabid style, Bad Lieutenant 
played mostly at art theatres during its short run. 
Disturbing and gritty, Keitel plays a lost and 
stoi;m-tossed lieutentant with great realism.
At 5, 7:30, 10 pm and 12:30 am.
Friday, February 18
Carlito’s Way
A bearded A1 Pacino stars as Carlito Briganti in 
this gritty story by Brian DePalma. Carlito, an ex­
hit man, tries to open a legitimate business in his old 
neighborhood after being released from prison. How­
ever, it seems he can’t go home again even though 
his lawyer, David Kleinfeld (Sean Penn) swears 
Carlito is a changed man. After he runs a disco for 
a few months, the Mafia closes in, and Carlito is once 
again entrenched into the hard life of a killer.
Also starring Penelope Ann Miller as Gail, Carlito’s 
girlfriend, this movie deals with the problems of 
going straight and keeping out of harm’s way. Though 
the acting is interesting, Pacino plays his character 
less convincingly than one might expect. De Palma, 
once in top form with The Untouchables, disap­
points as well, but still manages to make a fairly 
interesting and suspenseful film.
If you enjoyed Pacino’s Scent of a Woman, there 
should be no reason for you not to enjoy this film. 
Although lower in quality, Carlito’s Way is a fine 
film by a fine acting/directing team.
At 5, 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, February 19
My Life
Written by Bruce Joel Rubin of Jacob’s Ladder 
fame, this heartwarming story is about a dying 
man’s videotaped messages to his unborn son. 
Michael Keaton plays Bob Jones who is diagnosed 
with lung cancer. In the scenes that follow, Bob and 
his wife, Gail (Nicole Kidman), try to capture the 
last few days of their life together so their future 
child will know his father, at least posthumously
Keaton’s acting creates humor and love while 
Kidman portrays a wife ready to accept her hus­
band’s death, yet still desiring to make his last few 
moments memorable. The script is original and 
moving and the acting is commendable. The film is 
a feel-good flick, and good Saturday night fare.
At 6, 8:15, 10:30 pm and 12:30am.
Sunday, February 20
Blitzkrieg Bop
This 1978 documentary of the New York punk 
rock scene takes the audience to CBGB’s for perfor­
mances from the Ramones and Blondie prior to their 
national successes. It is interspersed with commen­
tary from rock critics and is a powerful look at the 
head-banging punk rock scene, as it were. God save 
the queen, indeed.
At 6, 8, 10 pm and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Mirror Blue disappointsClub Hub
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Richard Thompson returns af­
ter a few years with his newest 
album, Mirror Blue. Thompson 
has been consistently recording 
great albums for almost 30 years 
— from Fairport Convention in 
the sixties, solo and duet albums 
with Linda Thompson in the sev­
enties, to his solo albums in the 
eighties and nineties. Unfortu­
nately, Blue doesn’t achieve the 
greatness of his past albums.
Thompson continues to blend 
his American folk, British folk, 
blues, and Appalachian music 
with rock and roll to create a 
unique sound that no one has 
ever duplicated. However, it 
doesn’t seem to work as well on 
Blue\ most of the songs are filled 
with dissonant chords that, in­
stead of intriguing me, end up 
jarringme. “For the Sake of Mary” 
uses the first three chords of “Cin­
namon Girl,” by Neil Young, so it
me of every-time I’ve wanted to 
help someone and was completely 
powerless to do so. It is really 
affecting.
Thompson hasn’t lost his gift of 
storytelling. “Beeswing” and 
“Shane and Dixie,” are perfect 
examples. “Shane and Dixie” is a 
fun and evocative rave up — 
rockabilly style — that tells the 
story of two petty thieves who 
longforfame and fortune because, 
“Fame and love will never die.”
His last album, Rumour and 
Sigh, was nominated for a 
Grammy. I didn’t expect him to 
put out a duplicate album, but I 
do expect consistency. Mirror 
Blue, while containing many good 
songs, for the most part disap­
points.
Mirror Blue 
rates 2 out of 4 notes
cause I kept hearing Young in my 
head and not Thompson. There 
are some really great tunes on 
this album, but the consistency 
one expects from Thompson is 
missing.
Four of the first five songs on 
Blue, instead of moving me to 
empathize with the characters, 
annoy me with the musical ar­
rangements. Thompson still hits 
home with his amazing lyrical 
hooks, but they don’t go with the 
music in the first few songs. It’s a 
shame because one of Thompson’s 
strongest abilities is to write mu­
sic that tangles me up in the 
lyrics to such an extent that I 
usually feel the emotion of the 
words just from the music.
After the album’s first five 
songs, Thompson includes some 
memorable songs that reminded 
me of classic past tunes. “King of 
Bohemia” is a beautiful folk song; 
the lyrics are stark and moving.
“If tears unshed could heal your 
heart and words unspoken sway 
was hard to hear the song be- ...” Thompson sings, reminding
Punisher tUN, H ,U&Dpo &THp&U
Once again, Marvel hops on the bandwagon of 
killing (or at least coming really close to killing) a 
hero with slumping sales to make a quick buck 
with Punisher’s Suicide Run. I admit it, I fell for 
their ploy because I dropped Punisher titles two 
years ago due to the second-rate work being done 
on them. Yet here I am buying it again.
Out of curiosity, I bought Prologue and Part 1 of 
Suicide Run. Although the stories have become 
lame, Punisher is still a great character, so I 
wanted to see how they were going to “do him in.”
It’s a shame I began enjoying the storyline of 
Punisher books since they kill him in a later issue.
After a total of eight issues combined, I’m re­
minded of the good old days of Circle of Blood from 
the limited series, The Rev from the first year of 
The Punisher, and of Tie a Yellow Ribbon from the 
first issues of Punisher War Journal with no other 
than Jim Lee’s penciling. You can’t find a more 
emotional retelling of the Punisher’s origin any­
where with Lee’s art, Carl Potts’ writing, and 
quotes from Robert Frost poems.
Before singing the praises of Suicide Run, I must 
complain a little. I’m enjoying this story a lot more 
than I thought I would, but the similarities be­
tween this and The Death of Superman are too 
many. Both face the fight of their lives — Super­
man vs. Doomsday and Punisher vs. just about all 
of the East Coast’s organized crime in one big 
room. Both presumably die in these battles, too.
Just as in the aftermath of Superman’s death, 
there are four guys and Supergirl, who rise to 
assume the legacy of Superman. Now there are 
four guys and a Punisher-girl, who attempts to 
carry Frank Castle’s work. These similarities are 
too hard for me to swallow. Marvel can’t say this is 
a coincidence. They might as well have labeled 
Parts 4 and up Reign of the Punishers.
Comic Book Chronicles by Jason Andracki
The delay between Parts 4 and 5 is another 
strange occurrence for Marvel, who usually com­
promise quality for a deadline. During this period, 
it’s assumed that the Punisher is dead, yet there 
are still too many loose ends to make a concrete 
judgment. I think the reason for the delay is that 
the bigwigs at Marvel didn’t decide whether he was 
dead or not, waiting to gauge readers’ responses 
before they made a final decision. DC pulled a less 
obvious version of a life or death crisis in the 1-900 
number scheme with Robin in the Batman books a 
few years back.
Overall, despite these complaints, I enjoyed this 
series. The writing is solid, and the continuity 
between books is flawless. The art, especially Gary 
Kwapisz pencils on Punisher War Journal, is some 
of the best stuff I’ve seen since Jim Lee. The only 
thing that could improve this crossover is if the first 
three covers weren’t gimmicks and were drawn 
instead by the team of Mike Zeck and Phil 
Zimmelmen of the limited series and the Return to 
Big Nothing graphic novel.
The precise reason I’ve flipped over the latest 
Punisher books is the emotion these books convey. 
The relationship between Sheriff Bendix’s daugh­
ter Amy and the Punisher, combined with his 
flashbacks to his daughter are some of the most 
touching scenes I’ve seen. Additionally, the latest 
Part 7 in Punisher War Journal #63 has the best 
cliff-hanger ending. With hitmen, outlaws, and 
federal agents, I’m sure we’re going to be in for the 
most brutal Punisher ever in the upcoming issues.
Monday, February 14 
Karl Hendricks Trio, 
Thickhead Grin, Love L£ash, 
and Powder Keg
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern
Paw, Doughboys, and 
Scapegrace
Graffiti
The Addicts, Bad Genes, and 
Wiggy and the Wigtones
The Decade
Dorkestra
Rosebud
Tuesday, February 15 
D.O.R.
The Decade
Beausoleil wl Michael Doucet
Graffiti
Wednesday, February 16 
7-Goat; All ages show 
Luciano’s Coffeehouse
100 Inch Mudcow
The Decade
The Movies and The Willows
Electric Banana
Friday, February 18 
Repundance, Mommy, and 
Soft Tommy
Electric Banana
Saturday, February 19 
Deadline
Electric Banana
Ploughman’s Lunch, Rowdy 
Bovine, and Elektra Loves 
Daddy
Graffiti
The Balcony 5520 Walnut St., 
687-0110
The Decade 223 Atwood St., 
682-1211
Graffiti Baum Blvd., 682-8296 
Metropol 1600 Smallman Ave., 
261-4512
Rosebud 1650 Smallman St., 
261-2221
Electric Banana 3887 Bigelow 
Blvd., 682-4210 
Luciano’s Coffeehouse 
1023 Forbes Ave., 281-6877 
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern 
4412 Liberty Ave., 682-8611
gu,MpA sc opu
Ace Ventura: Pet Detective
Jim Carrey stars as a private in­
vestigator whose most recent mis­
sion is to save the Miami Dolphins’ 
team mascot. (Squirrel Hill Cinema 
World; 7:45, 9:30 pm daily, 4:20, 
6:05 pm Friday through Sunday, 1, 
2:40 pm Saturday and Sunday)
Archangel
An melodrama about a Cana­
dian pilot obsessed with a nurse 
whom he believes to be his long- 
dead lover. (Carnegie Museum of 
Art Theater; 8 pm Friday)
Baraka
With footage from 24 different 
countries, Baraka is an.exciting vi­
sual film about the earth’s evolution 
and human interdependence on our 
environment. (Playhouse; 7, 9 pm 
Monday through Thursday)
Blink
This mystery thriller unfolds as 
transplant recipientsees her donor’s 
murderer through newly acquired 
eyes. (Manor Theater; 1:10, 3:15, 
5:20, 7:40, 9:45 pm daily)
Cabin Boy
Chris Elliot stars in this slapstick 
comedy based on a cabin boy’s 
adventures away at sea. Featuring 
cameos by David Letterman and 
others. (Beehive; Midnight Fiday 
through Sunday)
Camp de Thiaroye
A World War II drama about 
African infantrymen who find their 
homeland colonially oppressed af­
ter they return from duty in Europe. 
(Carnegie Museum ofArtTheatre; 8 
pm Saturday and Sunday)
Children of Nature
A tale of two runaways from a 
nurising home who embark on a 
journey to find their childhood vil­
lage. (Filmmakers at the Fulton; Fri­
day through Sunday)
The Getaway
Real-life married couple Alec 
Baldwin and Kim Basinger star in 
this action film as partners in crime. 
Robberies are easy for them, but the 
struggle begins with the getaway.
(Manor Theater; 1:15, 3:20, 
5:35, 7:45, 9:50 pm daily)
Household Saints
Comedian Tracey Ullman stars 
as a young mother who gives birth 
to Teresa, whose saintly manner is 
remarkable considering her envi­
ronment among the views of three 
generations of her family in Little 
Italy. (Filmmakers at the Fulton; 7, 
9:30 pm Monday through Thurs­
day)
In the Name of the Father
Daniel Day-Lewis and Emma 
Thompson star in this film about a
man who goes to jail for his father, 
taking the blame for a crime he did 
not commit. (Squirrel Hill Cinema 
World; 7:15, 9:45 pm daily, 4:15 
pm Friday through Sunday, 1:30 
pm Saturday and Sunday)
Philadelphia
Tom Hanks stars in this much 
talked-about film about a gay man 
who brings his former employers to 
court when they fire him when they 
find out he has the HIV virus. (Squir­
rel Hill Cinema World; 9:35 daily, 7 
pm Monday, Wednesday, Friday; 
4:15 pm Friday through Sunday; 
1:30 pm Saturday and Sunday)
The Piano
CMU alum Holly Hunter stars in 
the story of a Victorian woman who 
moves to the wi Ids of New Zealand, 
where she explores her relation­
ships with her husband (Sam Neil) 
and her lover (Harvey Keitel). (Manor 
Theater; 3:10, 5:20, 7:30, 9:40 pm 
daily)
Schindler's List
Steven Spielberg directs this 
historic film about the life of Ger­
man businessman Oskar Schindler 
and how he saved the lives of thou­
sands of Jewish people from the 
World War II Holocaust. (Manor 
Theater; 12:30, 4:15, 8 pm daily)
Shadowlands
philosopher and children’s writer 
C.S. Lewis, this film stars Anthony 
Hopkins and Debra Winger. (Bee­
hive; 5 pm daily; no show 2/17)
Short Cuts
A disjunct film that consistently 
jumps from scene to scene, show­
ing glimpses of nine characters’ lives 
that are casually related. (Playhouse; 
7 pm Friday through Sunday)
Twenty Bucks
Follows the life a $20 bill that is 
transferred through the hands of a 
series of shady characters and ordi­
nary citizens. (Beehive; 7:45,10pm 
Friday through Sunday)
FTUHNUi ED&HNCDp,7
'UUTCuU7 $°?x nDiaU, 9uU. 
’°xRL/9F
nCEMMHcUi, HN NTU nSENDp7
5?5 mC2NT mN.r kDvpNDvp 
-x5Rlx??
FTU QHpDi FTUHNUi7
5x6l QSiiHs 9uU. -66Rxx6l
1CNN,aSitT 1EHsTDS,U7
666 wiHAN 9uU. ’65R’’?5
meSCiiUE /CEE wCpUMH LDiEo7 
q°6- nDivHio 9uU. -65Rxl??
wHipUtCU QS,USM DA 9iN 
FTUHNUi7 --?? nDiaU, 9uU. 
’66R$656
Based on the life of Christian By TARA ZANE

---------------------------------------------------

pfiABII
Bad Lieutenant will be playing at DH 2210 this 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Carlito’s Way will play in DH 2210 Friday. 
Showtimes are 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
My Life will be shown in DH 2210 on Saturday at 
6,8:15,10:30 pm, and 12:45 am.
Blitzkrieg Pop plays in DH 2210 this Sunday at 
6,8,10 pm, and midnight.
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for­
eign language skills at the international lan­
guage tables held daily over lunch.All language 
tables are held in the Graduate Student Coffee­
house, with the exception of the Russian Lan­
guage table, held in the Faculty Dining Room. 
Times are as follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas and 
La Table Française at 12:30 pm; Wednesdays: La 
MesaEspanola at 11:30 am; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch at 11:30 am; and Fridays: Bentoo 
hunch o nihorigo de at 12:30 pm.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group
holds workshop meetings every Monday at 7 pm 
at the Friends Meeting House. For more informa­
tion, call Bill King at 276-1768.
Traditional Irish Set dancing classes take 
place every Sunday night from 7-9 pm in the 
Bellefield Building at University of Pittsburgh. 
Call 363-8686 for more information.
The Pterodactyl Speedway holds student read­
ing series in Scotland Yard every other Thursday 
evening at 7 pm. Come out and support the local
student writing community. Students interested 
in reading should contact Micki Kochanskyj 
(mk57) or Tina Urso (tu05). The next reading will 
be Thursday, February 24.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Wednesdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A and 
Sundays at 2 pm in Activity Room B. For more 
information email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium provides a 
weekly forum for non-denominational students 
inquiring into the meaning and purpose of life. 
Regular meetings are held Tuesdays at 7 pm in 
the Cathedral of Learning, room 236. For more 
information, call 343-1907.
The Women’s Center Collective holds meet­
ings every Sunday at 3 pm in the CMU Women’s 
Center. If your group is interested in meeting in 
the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first and third 
Wednesday the Toastmasters Club sponsors a 
speech communication workshop at the Carnegie 
Library in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. For more 
information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on 
Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at 
the Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in 
Skibo 201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call 683-7770 
for more information.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet­
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. For more information, call x8-2114.
A Rational Recovery support group for those 
with alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday 
at 7:30 pm. Meetings are held in Room 205 of the 
Wightman Community Center Building in Squir­
rel Hill. For information, phone 261-5363.
The Student Environmental Action Coali­
tion meets every Sunday at 4:30 at the Pennsyl- 
vania Environmental Resource Center at the 
corner of Forbes and Craig, third floor. SEAC 
is composed of activists and organizers who 
fight for greater awareness of the current 
state of the environment and for preserva­
tion of this delicately balanced ecosystem. 
Call 681-8300 for more information.
SafeWalk — ïf you need to walk across campus 
late at night, call SafeWalk between 10 pm and 
2 am, seven nights a week at 268-SAFE (x8- 
2733). For more information, contact Ray 
Tseng at 862-3068.
Welsh Language Classes sponsored 
by the Celtic Society will be held in 
Porter Hall A19A on Wednesday evenings; 
beginners 7:15-8:15 pm and advanced beginners 
:30-9:30 pm. Call 521-6722 to enroll.
INDIE ROCK: Celibates, Pun­
dits, and Minimalist Lovegods
will play at the Bloomfield Bridge 
Tavern on Thursday at 8 pm. Call 
862-8611 for more information.
Compline Prayer at the End of
the Day is sung every Sunday at 
9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. For 
more information, call 682-6886.
The Fourth Annual Heinz 
Chapel Chamber Choir Festi­
val will be held at 3 pm on Sunday 
in the Heinz Chapel. High school a 
capella choirs will perform. Call 
John Goldsmith for more informa­
tion at 624-4508.
In celebration of Black His­
tory Month, The Spiritual 
Group will present Sounds of 
Heritage on Thursday from 7 to 8 
pm in the Ballroom, with a recep­
tion to follow.
River City Brass Band presents 
“Love Songs, Old and New” at 
Mount Lebanon High School in 
South Hills tomorrow at 8 pm, at 
Gateway High School in Monroeville on Thursday 
at 8 pm, and at the Palace Theater in Greensburg 
on Saturday at 8 pm. Call 322-RCBB for reserva­
tions.
Carl Orffs Carmina Burana is featured in 
the Mendelssohn Choir’s Choral Triad Con­
cert on Saturday, February 26 at 8 pm at the 
Carnegie Music Hall. Call the box office at 823- 
4188 or Susan Hill at 363-1804 for more informa­
tion.
The Trio Fontenay returns to the Pittsburgh 
Chamber Music Society at the Carnegie Music 
Hall on Monday, February 21, at 8 pm for an all 
Schubert concert. Call Joan Sher for tickets or 
more information at 624-4129.
Marcia Butler, New York oboist, will join 
cellist Theodore Mook and pianist Eric Moe
in a concert of contemporary American music 
including works by Ruth Crawford Seeger, Peter 
Child, Stefan Wolpe, Eric Moe, and the premiere 
of David Froom’s Impromptu on Tuesday, Febru­
ary 22 at 8 pm in the Recital Hall at theFrick Fine 
Arts Auditorium. Call Kathryn Duda for tickets 
and more information at 624-4125.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society of 
Pittsburgh presents The American Bach 
Soloists, led by Jeffrey Thomas and joined by the 
Bellefield Singers, in an evening of Bach cantatas 
and the Brandenburg Concerto No. 5, Saturday at 
8 pm at the Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets can be 
purchased at the Pitt Student Union or by phone 
(682-7262).
photo courtesy of the Samuel Goldwyn Company 
Bad Lieutenant, ,NHiiCpt /HiuUs hUCNUEr vCEE dEHs FTSi,oHs pCtTN Cp 
k/ 665? HN ’r °r5? dM Hpo MCopCtTN.
The men's basketball team will play at home 
this week against Theil University at 7:30 pm on 
Wednesday and against Emory Univeristy on 
Sunday at 3 pm.
The swim teams will compete in the UAA Cham­
pionships at the University of Rochester Thurs­
day through Saturday.
The indoor track teams will compete in the 
Robert Morris College Invitational this weekend.
The CMU Hockey Club will conclude its season 
in an away match against West Virginia Univer­
sity this weekend.
ART
Jim Snyder/ Tartan photographer 
FTU aH,cUNaHEE NUHM, vCEE aU dEHsCpt HN TDMU NTC, 
4vUUc HtHCp,N FTCUE wDEEUtUr jMDis •pCuUi,CNsr Hpo 
niD,NaSit mNHNU •pCuUi,CNs
INDIE ROCK: Karl Hendricks Trio, 
Thickhead Grin, Love Leash, and Powderkeg
will play at the Bloomfield Bridge Tavern tonight 
at 8 pm. Call 682-8611 for more information.
SPORTS
The women's basketball team will host matches 
against Frostburg State at 7 pm on Tuesday and 
against Emory Univeristy on Sunday at 1 pm.
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presents 
Alfred DeCredico at the Wood Street Galleries 
through February 26. DeCredico’s painting and 
sculpture exhibition features an essay by David 
Carrier, philosophy professor at CMU. For more 
information and gallery hours, call Rob at 471- 
6070.
Gluppity Glup. Also Schloppity Schlopp, a 
painting and sculpture exhibit by Josette 
Ghiseline and Chris Siefert runs through Feb­
ruary 19 at the Hewlett Gallery. Call 268-3877 for 
gallery hours and additional information.
Dina Ziskin and Erin Casell have works on 
display at the Forbes Gallery through February 
20. Call 268-2081 for information.
The Art Department is sponsoring a lecture 
by Jerry Abramson, an art historian from Car­
negie Mellon, on Tuesday, February 22 in DH 
2315 at 5 pm. Call Laurel Quigley at x8-2409 with 
questions.
682-7272
Vlfe've gone crazy!
w/jwh y•F y•P m1jw!90mÖ
FREE BREADSTICKS 
AND LARGE TWO 
TOPPING PIZZA ONLY
%~y 97 + TAX
TWO LARGE ONE 
TOPPING PIZZAS 
ONLY
95 +TAX
Tuesday 2/15 only
TWENTY-FIVE CENT 
COKES WITH ANY 
PURCHASE
COKE, DIET COKE, SPRITE, 
GRAPE, OR ORANGE
Thursday 2/17 only
CALL US FOR LARGE ORDERS FOR YOUR GROUP OR ORGANIZATION. WE CAN HANDLE ANY SIZE ORDER 
AND DELIVER IT TO YOUR MEETING PLACE. ORDER FOUR OR MORE LARGE ONE TOPPING PIZZAS AND GET 
THEM FOR ONLY $5.00 + TAX.
Sox SHAMPOO, A $6— Value (with coupon)
Alternative, Cleanse Phree or NEFA
With the purchase of an $8 Supercut" Haircut
? Open 7 days a week
? No appointment necessary
? Every stylist receives extensive on-going 
education in the categoryI
PleeW MisH A 1 R C A R E
ALTERNATIVE
©
8Df mTHMdDD
A Value (with couponJ
Alternative, Cleanse Phree or NEFA
With the purchase of an *8 Supercut" Haircut
McKNIGHT RD 7388 McKnighl Rd„ beltw Ross Pork Moll 367-7003
' WEXFORD Next to Red River BBQ 934-3050
, :i LOWER BURRELL Belween Hills* Shop n Save 339-4470
. .. CASTE VILLAGE Across from Gianl Eagle 881-8558
MONROEVILLE Plazo ol Moll Blvd., next lo Blockbuster__________373-6150
SHADYSIDE 219 South Highland, next lo Pizza Hul 361-5510
(down 5lh Ave., left on South Highland)
I
I
Void with any other promotional offer. One coupon per person. |;| 
Offer expires 3/11/94. CM
* PROUD SPONSOR OF THE USA VOLLEYBALL TEAMS.
SUPBtCUTS

---------------------------------------------------

FTU FHiNHp 8 wHipUtCU QUEEDp 8 5- nUaiSHis 5ll-
Franane & Lisa,
Will you be my Valentines?
I love you XwfcjTHPS 
-Lauren —
hey you
It's almost two years. It seems like just yesterday 
you were making me late for O Chem. I love you 
so much.
-Jenr/Wtt
Meagan,
You make my teeth sparkle. 
Andrew
John,
Thank you for a wonderful three years, 
Happy Anniversary!
I love you.
Etili Co WwtnTBri ,Irv :-
Sweetie:
You're purrfect. 
Kitten
Brockett Home/Tartan Calendar Editor and Ramsey Hong/Tartan Aft- Co-Editor
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39, 
Monday through Friday. Weekend Masses are 
celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in 
the GSIA Cooper Auditorium. For more informa­
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681-3181.
St. Agnes Church, 3221 Fifth Ave offers the 
Traditional Latin Mass Sundays at 8:30 am and 11 
am, first Fridays of the month at 7:30 pm, and first 
Saturdays at £) am. Confession and the Holy Ro­
sary are offered 30 minutes prior to all Masses. 
Call 766-0950 for more information.
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by 
the Episcopal, Lutheran, and United Campus Min­
istries, is held Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz 
Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible Study at
7 pm on Thursdays. For information, call x2-2484.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a 
happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) at 5:30 pm, ser­
vices at 6 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by 
calling 621-8875.
Daressalam Islamic Center, located at 4100 
Bigelow Blvd., offers weekly congregational prayers 
at noon on Fridays. For information, call 682-5555.
New Hope Christia^ Community Church in­
vites all students to-uplifting services on Sundays 
at 11 am in the Central Christian Church located 
at 134 N. Dithridge. For more information, call
621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by 
the Lutheran Campus Ministry, is held Sundays 
at 9:30 pm in the Heinz Chapel. This Sunday’s 
organist will be Dr. Raymond H. Ocock, of First 
Presbyterian Church, New Wilmington. For more 
information, call 682-6886.
Smithfield United Church, located downtown, 
holds Sunday morning worship services at 10:45 
am. A free student fellowship luncheon follows 
each service.
The Lutheran University Center, located at 
4515 Forbes, invites you to join in an Episcopal 
Lutheran Shared Eucharist on Sundays at 5 pm. 
Call x2-6886 for more information.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal)
welcomes all students to join those who worship,
serve, and fellowship there. They hold services on 
Sundays with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college 
class at 9:30 am, and morning worship at 11 am in 
the chapel. A Eucharist is also held on Wednes­
days at 7 am. For more information, call 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds wor­
ship service Sundays at 11 am and college class at 
9:45 am. Shadyside College Fellowship is on Fri­
days at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
History, Identity, and Empowerment, a lecture 
by Ken Garrison will take place tonight at 5:30 pm 
in the Wherrett Room. The lecture is sponsored by 
Black Faculty and Student Association.
Dr. Walter Williams, guest host of the Rush 
Limbaugh Radio Show and nationally known 
professor of economics at George Washington Uni­
versity, will discuss “The Role of Government in a 
Free Society” in the Ballroom on Tuesday at 7:30 
pm.
Goodwill is looking for help with their an­
nual Great Book Sale which will be held in April.
Volunteers are needed to help staff the book table;! 
as well as coffee table books, children’s books', 
cookbooks, fiction, non-fiction. Call Carolyn Gen!' 
tile at 481-9005, extension 260, to donate books o 
time as soon as possible.
The Celtic Society is sponsoring a workshop/'! 
discussion series examining the Indo-European 
origins of the Celts, as well as the archaeology 0f 
Pre-Celtic monuments, on Saturday in PH A19D 
from 10:30 am until 12:30 pm. Call 521-6722 fori 
more information.
A video conference on job opportunities for 
international students featuring representa­
tives from National Semiconductor, 3M Corpora-' 
tion and AT&T, will be held on Thursday, from' 
12:30 until 2:30 pm in the Media Room of Hunt1 
Library. Panelists will discuss job search strate­
gies and employment opportunities with a focus oni 
Southeast Asian Countries.
Hugs, Slaps and Kisses, sponsored by Delta' 
Delta Delta and Pi Kappa Alpha is Tri-Delta’s- 
annual charity fundraiser to benefit Children’s' 
Hospital and will take place from Wednesday, 
February 9 through Wednesday, February 16. A 
table will be set up in front of Doherty and the cost; 
to send a hug, slap, or kiss is $1.
IT % Time foR yCUR.•5Slopeol
SMACKEROO/
" LC - Did I ever tell you you're my HERO? 
AB"
Happy Valentine's Day, Princess Sweet Pea!
Meow, Meow, .... Meeeooow 
Meow, Meow, Meow, Cluck
- Your Chicken
Adam, You will always be my Valentine.
I love you forever, Lisa
Jen,
You're sp3, I'm sp3, and weird is very good. 
Love,
Scott
Jeff,
I think your nipples are very spiffy.
Ode to Lisa (of UG):
Oh! How thine breasts heave!
For any any other, I would not leave
My! How thine thighs quiver
for them, I would remove my liver.
You still love me, though my butt is hairy 
It is for this I want vou to marry.
Truly, you are the best.
UG
Feeling Blue?
Remember Barney always loves you.
I'M DESPERATE AND I'LL KILL 
from ¡ohn the eradicator
PAT,
Do you realize how unliked you are? 
Figured it out yet?
Sam and Lauren,
You're my heroes.
Happy Valentines' Day.
Andrew
To my little fuzzbuns:
You're the best Canadian in town! 
love from your Virtua Fighta
EW,
You are the hottest studmuffin alive.
Don't ever change, gorgeous.
Love,
All of your devoted faris
pwvTtMIw(Little Guy #2,
Happy V Day. Hope you liked the rose. 
Now maybe you'll be in a better mood for 
Cog, you loser.
Love, The StudPuppy
Matt, You're awesome! 
from yours TRULY
FABIO XO,
Happy Valentine's Day to die Prince 
of Pasta and Romance novels. We all 
love you very much, We still need to 
try out the back seat of your Explorer.
Love,
Your Special Women you still need
KIM D.,
Happy Valentine's Day to the 
Greatest AC in the world.
Love and Kisses,
Your Beloved E tower Crew
PAT,
nobody likes a person out for themselves.
Go away.
MM,
Stay cool. You're a great Dean.
Love, Your fan club
Man (to telegraph agent): "Can I send that one 
about, 'instead of hearts, and cupid's darts, I'm 
sending you a wire,', or whatever the hell it is?"
- James Thurber cartoon caption
'That was actually a warm and comforting em­
brace until you started playing my ass like a drum
Sterling,
A little more drama, please.
Andrew
Levi,
¿Donde esta, Levi? Levi es mi amor- mi vida. 
Ivenga aqui, Levi!
Hey cute boy,
I need you!
Hey you,
Nobody does it better.
Your nuclear boyfriend
moof!
Chicks in Roselawn 6, Dan, Em, Tree- 
I still dig you gals the mostest. Happy V Day. 
Andrew
Happy Valentines' Day to the human toothbrush
rtlJuli 1 ll dfflilwliiMTe quiero mucho,
Katya,
I think I love you...
Welcome back Ivona!
Congratulations to new pledges of Zeta Psi 
Sigma: Roula Abdel-Baki, Faith Glerum, Tracey 
Imhoff, Sharona Jacobs, Rachel Noack, Tzufit 
ram, and Stephanie Stine.
To my disco duck,
1 bang my head against the wall for YOU!
EYE YEE EYE YEE EYEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!
WILL ALWAYS LOVE YOUOOOOOOOOOOI
Barnan,
Happy VD and thanks for all the Fridays.
To that special Pi Lam, 
want to have your love child! 
the girl in DH.
