jUcD mußt be at liberty to 
6ay in prmt whatever they 
bave in mind.to say, pro­
vided it wrong* no one.
—CHARLE6 A. DANA
Course Changes 
'We Participate 
Christmas Dinners 
Christinas Message
VOL- 30. NO. 12CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1935
flew Director 
Of Summer 
School Named
Dr. Laurence Shaffer 
\pillBe Head of 1936 
Summer Session
IS MAKING PLANS 
FOR NEXT SESSION
to Important Alterations 
\?ill Be Made - Booklet 
Ready in February
been appointed Director oi 5» Summer Session for the coming rear At present he is completing plans ror the next session, which rill be outlined in a catalogue and be distributed in February. Noli 
portant alteratioias offered for t
In the courses
____ past several yearsrilT be made, according' to Dr. 
.Shaffer.
He succeeds as Director Prof. Robert B- Loighou, ¦whose death lest rammer ended a long career of leaching and administraUve work wKh Carnegie, beginning in 1901. Previous to his death. Professor Ulghou had been Director of the Summer Session from 1932 to 1935, «Dd director of the Night School lor the past nine yeai 
The nineteenth Summer SeBsion' WlTT offer subjects included In the College of Fine Arts, College of En- jloeeriDg and the Division of Gener­al Studies. Excellent recreational —CH———ARC will be provided, the brimming pool and tennis
interested in Industrial processes will be given opportuni­ties to tour some of Pittsburgh’s great industrial..plants and other points of Interest In the district
Animal Wurts 
Dinner Held 
Qn Cho&tmas
Fran Eichler’s Band 
Will Play For Annual
Soph Hop January I I
SUMMER DIRECTORAdmission Price This 
Year Is Much Lower 
Than Formerly
PLAN FLOOR SHOW 
FOR INTERMISSION
e IF. Shaffer, who hasDr. Law been appointed Direct)Summer Session for the coming
Xmas Chapel 
This Morning
Dr. Watkins t6 Preside 
Over Yuletide Service
I Ont-of-Town Students 
I Invited to Attend 
Yearly Occasion
Students at Carnegie Tech who -e unable to return home for Christmas will.be guests at the inual Wurts Christmas din- ie dinner will .be held at the Ruskrn Apartments al 6 P. M.,
Dean Mary Watson Green will rreBidc as hostess and will arrange entertainment which is to follow. Last year, many states of tbe Union and a few foreign coun- iea were represented at this func-
Thls annual occasion is made . sssible through the income from a lund. given to Carnegie Tech' in 1927, by a late member of the fac­ulty, Professor Alexander J. Wurts. Many students have enjoyed this uilque heritage of bis generosity ’ thoughtfulness, and it' is hoped ibat those students who must nec- .j remain on tlie campus dur­ing tlie holiday period this year, »111 lake advantage of this oppor- «Kiity.. ,
Christ
Grab Bag Is 
Party Feature
I. M. Freshmen Give 
Christmas Social
Preparations are being made for ptebe Christmas party which is >be given for the Margaret Morri­ón freshman girls and their ad­visors on Thursday, December 19
gift which will be used in the Pab bag. Miss Ruth Brahmer, ;ocial chairman of the class, predicts a good
littees in charge of this
jlarcelle Allison; Publicity — «anus GraybiH,- Rutlv; -Wooiridg-e^ Spitieri, Catherine Cegler; '¦ lainment —. Elizabeth Creel* Irene Sorttag, Jacqueline and Sara Heyl.
Yuletide Luncheon 
For Secretaries
DepartSeniors •
^ristmas luncheon tomorrow ¡“«Margaret Morrison Recreat J“1 *ron‘ 12:00 to\l:30. This e first of the three luncheon
CSafS:elCh jesr by;“16
is thirty-five cents, 
Z. i01' prizea be given. Dor- Bateman ’36, Is president of ¿I,, club. Mary Elliott .‘36, and 
S,y. McGregor :*36,• cchctairmen, fi«T. i aaslsted ’by ...Mary: Lou *aT*. - All • secretarial'
Will Sing Carols
Service Starts Promptly— 
WWSw Broadcasts
¡Fine'Arts at 11:30; iB pleasantly in keeping with the Christmas season, 
for Included!' on the progi 
yuletide hymns and Scripture 
readings.- Dr. Charles Watkins, 
acting president, is to preside
the e
Maxine Foster, Sué Carter, 
Donald Zelenke Plan 
Entertainment
Fran Eichler and his orchestra 
have been secured for the annual 
Soph Hop. The dance will be held 
Thistle hall on Friday, January 
1936. Dancing will be from 
nine until one o'clock. Tickets may 
be secured from members of tbe 
Cwens .and Scimitars, Bopbomore class honorarles, after the holidays.
Since the committee In cbarge af the Soph Hop has been working on rangemente for tbe dance, plane e rapidly taking shape. The price of admission is much lower this than formally. Mark Miller is chairman of the dance.
Maxine Foster is in. charge of
day by Mary Yorke, chai the ticket committee.
The patrons are: Mr. end Mrs. Alan Bright, Dean Mary Watson Green, Mr. and'Mrs. Webster N. Jones, .Mr. and. Mrs. Roscoe M. Ihrlg, Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Tarbell, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Watkins.The chaperones are: Mr. and 
-Mrs—E.-K1-Collins, Mi. auJ MrarR. V.. Davis, Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Gregp. ;W,--FV, Henning, George Kimberly, 
Mr. end Mrs. H. K. Kirkpatrick, John C. Kohl, Mr. and Mrs. Harold Land, Mr. and Mrs. R. E- Parshall, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Readlo, Miss
ASSEMBLY SPEAKER |Commercial 
Course Change 
Is Announced
Commercial Eng. Now 
Has Been Renamed 
Managment Eng.
ALSO REORGANIZE 
THE CURRICULUM
Single Course with Electives 
Replaces Two Options 
•. Of Previous Course
anson D* Cou, noted traveller lecturer, who will speak on’ “Present Day Japan" at the first Assembly next year, January ?,
“Present Day 
Japan” Lives 
In Color Filins
Branson De Cou Brings 
“Dream Pictures” 
To Assembly
ILLUSTRATES PHASES 
OF ORIENTAL LIFE
Today’s Chapel services, held In 
,^e^U^jrheAt^i;-úfe-tó¿.CQlleg^o^ JfeuT?a.-.Schftnp!r,. -MrU^fev&fosr^Kg- Flnp-Afts..
Musical Travelogue Show6 
Landscapes, Inland Sea, 
Modern City Scenes
Branson De Cou, nationally; 
known travelogue lecturer, .will! 
present another. oF'bis Hrzzzn 
lures, a musical travelogue entitled 
“Present • Day Japan” at the Jan­
uary 7 assembly at 11:30 ln. jthe 
Little . Theater’' of the Collage^ of
D. Shaffer,- Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Stan- :ton, Mr. and. Mrs. H. A. Thomas, Mr. and Mrs. w. Trinke, Mr. and Mrs. B. E., Warden, Mr. and Mrs. R. Whitaker, and Mr. and- Mrs. A. Wright.. '
the program is to be broad- 
by station WWSW, students and faculty are urged to attend 
and join in the carol singing- 
Matthew Frey, of the Department 
of Music and organist 
Unitarian Church, :s the organ ac­
companist, and will lead the audi­
ence in singing the hymns. Selec­
tions from tbe, Scriptures will be 
read by Professor Chester Wallace, 
of the Department
The complete program follows
Handel; Hymn Singing — "Adeste Fidelia, "Little Town of Bethle­hem;” Scripture Reading by Pro­fessor Wallace; Hymn Singing—
‘God (Rest You ’ Merry Gentle­men,“ "Silent Night;” Organ Post- lude.
:The great popularity of this an­nual Christmas Chapel In the past has been-.due to its power of instill­ing & true holiday spirit in the fac­ulty and students, and today a large crowd is.expccted to'flll-the Little'
Short Story 
Contest Open 
To Students
Journalistic' Honorary 
Will Reward Bealt . 
Stories, Poems ^
honorary, is sponsoring ers’ Row contest.
Articles may be of any nature- short story, essay, or poetry—and should not exceed 1,500 words. All Carnegie students are eligible to :ompete. Articles of merit will ap-
year. Send yonr contribution Writers’ Row, care of the Tartan.The best composition of each month will receive special mention, and the writer of the best article of the year will 'receive a
Ban Placed on “Compulsory 
Class Attendance” at Chicago
Many People Have a Distorted Picture of “America’s 
Oxford”—Studying Becomes a Fascinating 
Art—Gaiety Lurks at Every Corner
By Jane Ellen Mason i"Radicalism, Socialism, a young i President who dreams of a.system
ideas many people have when reter- ei.xcft Je jnade-.tn. thf! nniyeridijr .of. Chicago. That is a . distorted-pic­ture; in truth it is a. most interest­ing institution where studying' be­comes.a fascinating art."Compulsory Class Attendance” is banned • from the vocabulary oi 
the Chicago student. You say, "Then no one ; would go to lee* tures!" Strangely enough they do
they •
unless they feel that 
__ld rather read in thé 11- •y-ibd. dig. the-knowlertge.io.ut for themselves. The faculty ad­vises students to do the thing, by which they believe they will profit most. The theory President Mutch- ins! uphods is that if you put a man on his own responsibility he will do better than it he is. driven, for if after he bas béën'givèriîuïl swâÿ he can blame no one; his failure Is his own fault and he knows it. .Likewise, man Is eager to learn; he has been asking questions ever slhce he was abie to.talk; so if he is given ;a. free .hand It Is only nat-
. At the'“Oxford of America’ student takes an exam after he has done the reading required for a year’s work. • He may do that read­ing in any of his courses in threi months if he. desires and is able to, or he.may take three years in which to complete the course it that is more convenient. The ex- ams. .in ihe.freshmen .and: enp.ho- more courses are given in June, December and September; they last six hours. These exams do not ask for facts, they are “comprehen­sive.” The idea 1s ‘'You’ve learned the facts. What \have you deduced from them?” You can’t be a par­rot at’ Chlcagof 'you must tViin k.'It may 'sound difficult having to retain that which usually takes a year , to read. It Isn’t. The “new plan’’ eliminates "cramming.” Can you imagine a student trying to. do, st .week,'; a . year’s reading :ln
The Topeka Dally. Capital in 
February, 1934, referred to- this 
lecture as “one of the most unlquo 
and fascinating ' entertainments 
ever presented In Topeka .... 
each picture fades into the next 
a continuity of loveliness, one i 
derstands bow they came to 
called- Dre&n Pictures.”
These Dream Pictures originated 
by Mr. De Cou and presented by 
him since 1914 are lectures illus­
trated entirely with natural color 
motion pictures, and accompanied 
by music. The pictures, scenes 
taken by Mr. De Cou- while on 
sonal tours about the world, have 
been colored by Miss Augusta A. 
Heyder, the foremost artist in the world in tbe painting of miniature landscapes on glass. The musical settings'-for Mr. De Cou’s lectures are provided by R.C.A. Victor Re­cordings on the Ansley Dynaphone.
While in Japan collecting mate­rial for "Present Day Japan” Mr.
4 military zone (although not fort was in sight). He was cot teonsly but persistently examined and released after .the confiscation of sorne of the pictures. Those scenes he succeeded Jn photograph- ing and bringing from Japan will be presented her.e' with Mr. De Con’s lecture. There are.views of Fujiyama, the sacred mountain of
cherry-blossom time; glimpses of life in Toklo — the neon-lighted Genza rivaling Broadway, the mod­ern Japanese women, baseball, subways, and great department
The music prepared for this lec­ture includes Symphony No. 1 in C •Minor by Brahms. Symphony No. S
Japanese folk song—“Moon Ruined Castles” sung by the Ja­panese tenor Yoshie Fujlwara.
Mr. De Cou will be remembered "Old Mexico” last
Music Instructor 
Hit byAutomobile
Victor Saudelf ini Hospital 
A6 Result of Accident
Mr, Victor Saudek. _parKime 5n-. structor iu the Department of Mu­sic, is in Magee Hospital as a re­sult of injuries sustained when .lie was hit by an automobile December 6.
The machine, skidding on the' ice at the corner of Tech..and._Frew. Streets, coTlTded with Mr. Saudek, who was on foot He‘ is suffering from shock and three broken ribs.
Mr. Saudek is prominent in Pitts- burgh - musical - .circles, both as - a teacher .arid; an. artist • He ; ls'a iber of-,.the Pittsburgh v Syin-
Henceforth, the Department of 
Commercial Engineering will be 
known as the Department of Man­agement Engineering, according, to'! a -announcement made by Lawr- nce R. Guild, head of the depart- lent. The change in name -is ac- »upanied by a reorganization of the- curriculum which will crente single course with electives to replace the two options, Works -Management and Commercial, now existing. .
The options are a result of the merger 1n 1932 of tbe Department
coûtent have been maed, but there
fourth:year-Is a final-selection of electives In sales engineering or in production engineering made.
Commenting on the changes, Dr. Guild.said, “The name Commercial Engineering has not achieved the general acceptance once anticipat­ed tor It. In considering the advis­ability of a change, the department decided, that its objectives would
other-; names . now-In. use. The change has been under •considera­tion two years, and
: "Tbe rovlsi6n of the curriculum wilt make for teaching economy and greater ease In scheduling,
will helft Üoth the student and his adviser. In scope, the course com­pares favorably with the best of similar courses at other universi*ties.'............
Management Englnéerlng course
mental principles In tbe field of dustrial and commercial manage­ment. These • principles are studied, against a background o( technical engineering and econom-
then takileal, and electrlcal^engineerln economic and business studi elude principles, commercial law.accounting, finance,(sties, Idistribution. -Following work in the shops, he visits numer­ous local Industries, and with this background elects to specall: production engineering engineering.
Classes Sing 
French Carols
Prof. Parisi in Charge 
Of Arrangements
Twelve Fraternities 
Pledge 121 Sunday
“Gliding Lags 
In America” 
Says Expert
Dr. Karl Lange Shows 
Soaring as Asset 
To Meteorology
DIAGRAMS ATTRACT 
HEARERS’ INTEREST
Noted Pittsburgh Aviators 
Are Present at Club's 
Friday Lecture
"America lags far behind Ger­
many in motorless aviation,” declar­
ed Dr. Karl O. Lange, noted me­
teorologist and soaring pilot In his 
lecture, on .“Soaring and Its Rela- 
lious to Meteorology” in the Union 
Friday night “We hove only two 
three hundred soaring pilots, 
while In Germany wet .may safely 
estimate over fifty thousand.”
Dr. Lange's talk was illustrated 
both by black board aod by lantern 
slides and tioalt, with the various types of disturbances in the atmos­phere that produce rlsloé, air cur- s. High performance sail plana these to gajn altitude. He de­clared that thunderstorm flying Is the most thrilling and dangerous of all. The pilot must, :.for obvious reasons, bave blind flying Instru­ments and, for safety’s, sake, a par­achute. He „declared. ..that -.'fioariss is a èptauiaUzeil sport and that the flight records are valuable to the meteorologist.' - Ho also made it clear' that 'the designers of high performance sail planes were better able, to design high'performance airplanes/ Dr. Lange said that a .course'- of;MeteorolOgyT^oupled.with soaring would, not only be .a great asset to.the Aeronautical Engineer­ing Department at Carnegie,. but that it would help greatly to; fur­ther the gliding end soaring move­ment in this country. The lecturer was introduced by ProfeBBor George B. Thorpe of the - Aeronautics De­partment as a research aBBodate at Harvard’s Blue IH1I1 Observatory, and as head moteorologist for the Soaring Society of America.
Many men prominent In aylation
H. Hornbostel 
Is Appointed
CIT Building Architect 
Made Director of Parks
Henry Hornbostel, noted archl- ,tect; and professor of Architectural practice at Carnegie Tech, recently was appointed Director of Parks in Allegheny County. The appoint­ment was made by County Commis-
nual Christmas progre
nounced their choices for the rank­ing poets in the county cabinet.
Mr. . Hornboater viras ' winner of Fri-1 the architectural competition for )0, in thé Carnegie Institute of Technol-
Morrison. Professor' Vincent -CL- Parisi, Department of Modem Language, 1s in charge of arrange-
ogy, and since that time has been
of Annette Rosengon ’36, piano, Wilma Melse ’36, violin; and Paul Affelder ’36. cello. Lois ITodli :3<l, and Milton Berlin *36 will offer vo­cal solos.All students who are interested are invited to attend. The entire program will be carried out In
rial in Marlou Ohio, the Hell’ Gate Bridge in New York, and many more well-known American buildings. Before coming to Pitts­burgh. Mr. Hornbostêî taught al Columbia university, and conducted a private atelier in New York City. He was also engaged In archl-
draws a yearly salary of
Many Men Are Undecided— 
Will Pledge After Christmas
Present Figures Indicate An Upward Trend For 
Greek Life on Carnegie Campus—Total May 
Double Last Year’s—Many Rules Broken
Twelve fraternities pledged 121 men up until 9:00 o’olock 
Swnduy.. This is a decided increase over lust yenr when.only, a 
group of 74 accepted bids. .
Many of the men -who appeared at the house of their, choice 
Sunday morning Imve asked tbe various gTonps to refrain f^om ; 
publishing their names until after the holidays. These l
Drama Dept 
Gives Three 
One-Act Plays
Program Includes «‘Poor 
Pillicoddy,” Two Works 
Written by Students
A group of three one-act plays 
will be presented by the Depart­
ment of Drama 1n the Union of Ad­ministration Hsll on Thursday, De­cember 12. This program Is to in­clude the fanlous Victorian piny, 'Poor Pillicoddy,” by J. M. Morton under the direction of Joseph Batchelor. The . cast will Include Chairmen Leigh, Ida Blcklèy,'Ben­jamin Yaffee, and Hugh Overturf. -
The remaining two' plays, are stu­dent-written;. De Lisle Crawford direst- Jsrùiuo- Kurtz and Nor­bert Kelly in the . play "His Broth­er's Keeper" which be wrote./'Bessie Takes a Hand,” by Doro­thy Stewart, is under the direction of Thelma Newhouse. Members o'f the cast are Allen Smith','- Drew Dam, Janè Wltmer. Jean Osterholt, 
ftnd Helen'. Ruth Delkev \.41)!. iKrSf plays are under the supervision oi Prof, Chester Wallace.
Yesterday afternoon and again at 3:30 today, a group [)f Freshman Plays will also be presented 1n the Union; This Is the first perform- anoe of the year by the incoming
-?slro to obtain the final consent. óf their parents bofore they officially, take the pledge button.
The list although Incomplete, at the present timo indicates the up-
pressed great satisfaction the. results of the rushing season. Many said that the freshman group as a whole was above the average which resulted in more being rush* : ed than ordinarily.
Many Are Undeolded Practically nil greek letter groups ¦ said that there were P' great man?-.waiting to see where some^of their friends pledged and that these - would be pledged within the next few days. .There aro also a number - - sn waiting until after the hoi* . idsyu when they have had a chance ,o talk things over with their foml- ies. L net of these late pledges will appear in the next —EC6C of The Tartan.
Manv criticisms were made of the present rushing system. Some
Play, Dance 
Feature Party
Musicians Turn Actors 
In Play Tomorrow
Getting off to an early star the holiday spirit
of the College of Fine Arts* with Florence Pyle '36 as chairman.Included In the program will bo a pageant, “Christmas in Many
es the King of. England. After the pageant the students will dance composed of stu-
of Music, alumni, and faculty r bers are invited to attend.
Freshmen Elect 
CWCA Officers
dent and social chairman; Ruth WbolrMge, secretary - and Catherine Eruey, publicity agent.Mary Wettach ’36 will speak the next freshman meetingheldWettach will dlscu: hold Economic et Morrison.
January 7. Miss the Hotise- 38 at Mar-
F R A T E Fi NI T Y P L E D G E $
«g
Robert Calfrey Richard Hulley R.Galbreäth • • Noel NordenhoffJames Hamnett Jolin Snyder . BETA SIGMA RHO Morris AltDian Maurice Laurner •Drabkin Leo Perl Gerald Feldman .Theodore,-Robins iHayihaird Glass"' • Lester^SmltTi"M. Klrshenbaum Leonard Strauss Lloyd; KramerBETA THETA PI Richard Craig Richard'Latta Charles Dobson M. Lick,! Jr. . Charles Dunlap F. Loeffier, Jr. -James-rFox-—— Tom Seidel- • • - John Fox . E. Webb,- Jr. William Hajjar Oliver Williams Orln Hill, Jr.DELTA TAU DELTA 'John F.-Bower . Leslie Evans'- Chafes Chaney- Joseph Faloon . Philo Davis ; . George E'ieldson: Hqberi • Dew all ,. Jama ¦. Fllnn >. \<___’"IS ' ....
Charles Flynn E.‘.Macke, .Jr. .‘Joseph Gray.. Phelan McShane•Robert Leech E. Quevhach-Joseph Johnson William..Smith DELTA UPSILON John Brumbaugh Howard Peppel W. Edwards. George RaisJg C. .Vogeley, Jr.---- ..Chaises WfttklnsChafies Hudson L. Westerveit ' KAPPA DELTA RHO Robert; Brown M. Peterson' David' Edwards G. McKinney Jerry Peterson Thomas Vassar KAPPA SIGMA Charles; Fegan Carl SmithW;- -Grimow- —....Harold Turner "David McClain Frank Zercher David MorrisonPHI KAPPA Tom Benner .. John . Henrlon Albert Boehm Joseph Kaputa
Eugene Musial Francis Stapor Harvey Neis Kenneth Vogel ;Roncone • Basil Vance ,PI KAPPA ALPHA iorge Andraso Ra!lph • Ives'[son Armour John . .Logan.. Wayne Atwell T. Patterson .William Bean . Jim Patton oJm. .r)renpJrg. . —Jack Gilson Robert: Russel W. Hulslander Harry- 'West SIGMA PHI EPSILON John- Dundon Robort Sprague George Parros R. Weeber, Jr.
' Joseph ' GHsiatwrh 'Är thùi Raphael Kazman Jerry Weisman . Eugene Salinger Sydney Weisman Robert Stemman-THETA XI EMward Grifflth> Michael Pucblr William; Habel J . Ballard . Quass
everything goes with unrestricted: rushing and the. other the restrldfr« ed rushing. The group olslnked that: all' the good points ^ln • hqtj» ;:- mQ^had-been-strive^-for^and-'— lnsload of having an ideal situation..-v the rules were lust so many wordft ' whlch no one obeys,
- Infractions of Rules While It Is generally 'concede®'’. lat.many minor Infractions oMhe^ : rushing rules occurred, mpst greelc. letter men bellove that no charges-'-- will be laid.. If there are groups;:, which Intend to lay charges^ f against another fraternity rule la of the rushing code should be.refers to. It roads. "All charges oi • violation shall be .put in writing hy^-' the fraternity making: the., ob&rge - r and shall be presented to the prosl< •- dent of Interfraternity CQuncllr -by/ Janunvy 11. I9d6."
A complete llst -of pledges as rev; leased at nine Sunday evening ap»‘< pears at the bottom of this' page. ;
Social Work 
Students Give 
Annual Party
Settlement Members 
Are Guests Here 
December 17
T”T
Social Work students of-Mar'-’ 
garet Morrison will give a Christ- -. 
mas party for members .of the •set*::* 
tlement house dubs which the stu- '¦ dents have helped form and opsit'v
pirations '36. general chairman: Mary janes- Jahn -¡s7. program: Margaret Don-;aid '37. invitations and reception; "- Elsie Spector '37. finance and re- j treatments: Mildred Lurie r»7; dec­orations.
Between 180 and 200 guests are:.’ expected to attend the party this-:.-' year. There will be young men v and women Irom : the BraBhear, ^- •Kingsley.- ftluntia-H:-aiid- iriiw-KaiiSr-^ raann Settlement houses..- andi”: Lawrenceville Y. M. C. A. • •The theme of an artists ball-ls to be carried out m the Invitations-'-^ decorations: and costumes.. .
Christmas Party 
For Science Club-
rHeltrtch.G
Members of the Science Clnb ;ot<W Margaret Morrison are.-sponsorlng^- a Christmas. party, Thursday.íey^^ xiing at 8 o:clock in Recreation'háll,.An admission fee of :15^ cents willí be charged.\and those who -wish-iio' attend are requested.to; slgn:ok^': paper posted .-for that purpose on" the bulletin boards.-,-. Faculty, mem-fe'.. bers. their wives - or- husbands:-: and% the: alumnae ¦ since -1»32 -are: aUiln*^-.’ vlted.- Games.-, contests.,.presenta^r^: and carols are being plannedihyk^ the entertalnmrnt c mmittoo " fr»» hraents will-^e served in <,b*ot erlologx. Iábt¿

---------------------------------------------------

THE CABNEPIE TAHTAN. TUESDAY. PECEMBt-B,17.^35
3Fhc ©arnese 3Tartatt
FHONE MAYFLOWER 3699
whir during the colt«8* yt&r by the vndc leffle^lnelltutc ol^ Twhnolocr. EnUnd
• Soto and exclusive National Advertlslns RcpraBcnlflUve: NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE. INC.
Chtcafio—Boston—Sen FranciscoÆ.YZUtpor.,..d-
Ediíor-ln-Chld--------!..
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Robert P. PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: James M. ¿XGHAKGE9: Rosemary B. Pierce.. CIRCULATION MANAGER; A. I- Cur TYPISTS: Rena MiConi. Mary Lou Sch STAFF ARTISTS: C. Su« Fuller. Robei JUNIOR EDITOR: jUcDmu Baldy.^ AMason. Adelaide
REPORTERS:
SPORTS STAFF: Edward Mu LynghcliK. William ShafTor,
. Richard Crain.
Dr. Watkin’s Christmas
Once more the first Christmas eong, “Glory 
to God in the highest and on earth peace and 
good will toward men,” rings out above the 
: etrife and war and threats^of war that disturb 
,the world.
In extending to the students of the Carnegie 
.'.Institute of Technology Christmas greetings, 
it is my earnest wish that all of you may have 
some part in making this song of the angels 
;,. the song of men.
CHARLES WATKINS, Acting President.
The Commercial Engineering 
Course Changes Its Name
T
HE change of name of the Commercial En­
gineering course to Management Engineer- 
'-ing is a judicious move on the part of the 
" school administration. For a long time stu- 
\; dents and alumni have considered the name, 
.“eotmnereiaV’ vague — even meaningless.
. "While the title of a book or a movie may be 
/deceptive, that of a definite college curriculum 
should be descriptive in itself. The new head­
ing fulfills this requirement. Although Car- 
.- iiegie stands alone in offering a course in Man- 
'¿ageiiiéut "Eugincci’ing; other- major, technical 
•- schools have comparable courses of study 
•• Tinder' differént names. Massachusetts Insti­
tute of Technology sponsors a similar course 
i'- titled. Business and Administrative Engineer­
ing. The American Society of Mechanical En- 
• gineers has for many years encouraged its 
^Ttffinageriiént' division—ampié evidence 'Of the 
-need for 9uch a course of study. With the new 
title prospective students wiQ be less apt to 
0¡get the wrong impression of the course. Stu- 
• -dents in the department will find it less neces- 
; sary to explain the nature of their course of 
%-study. Graduates will find it helpful in their 
contacts with employers. We commend Dr. 
;'. .<Guild for his excellent work in instigating the 
•. ¡change, and the administration for its liberal 
•and open-minded attitude toward suggestion 
¦ for ímprovement.-
¦A* A. I/. Votes For 
¦American Participation
T
HE Amateur Athletic Union has voted for 
American participation in the Olympic 
Games. What else could any sane persons do?
; .For when the question of participation is di­
vorced from the cloud of muck and-racial and 
^.religious propaganda, tlie opponents of partic­
ipation haven’t a foot to stand upon.
• The A. A. U. took the sting out of the oppo­
sition by stating in its official dictum, “that 
any certification by the A. A. U. and the A. 0. 
, C. (American Olympic Committee) be not con- 
' àtrued to mean or imply that endorsement is 
• given to the principles or practices of the Nazi 
“"government.”
But- that wasn’t enough for a group which 
-;1>rands itself a Committee On Pair Play. They 
j.'are now busy showing how fair they arc by 
Y.iannouncing that they will not follow the will 
: pf the majority. Instead they will try to hold 
-- up the raising of Olympic funds. When this 
^.effort fails the Committee will probably send 
.delegates to the games and hiss and boo the 
. ëôntestants. It is their idea of Fair Play.
Writers’ Row
THE LEGEND OF BLACK AND WHITE
You can’t deny It, you know. Ever since you have been big. enough to hear, and considerably before that, people have' been saying, "Oh, these two things, or people, <
isn't, how can a comparison he made? Or take something else, a dog (or example. What’K the difference between a white dog and a black on«? They’re both dogs, aren't they? Shoes are . shoes; coats are coats; paper Js paper —what things are doesn’t depend on the color that hap­pened to be applied to them. Have- you no re­ply? Can't you relieve my perplexity? Can't you see I want to KNOW!
My child, in my impatient youth. I, too, risked my master thé question you have put to me. He answered me with a story.
"Once, long ago, there was a judge who knew the powers of good and evil. All his knowledge he wrote in two volumes—one with the good, one with the bad. This-man was just and kind and'merciful but he lived is trepidation nnd fear that some day, by chance, in dealing out justice, he should give to some accused the wrong vol­ume from which to read. For It was his philoso­phy that it was better to let the person read for himself the rules for good behavior and right living, rather than have tbe judge deliver to bim these same words of wisdom. In order to be able to tell his precious volumes apart, he de­cided to make covers for them ; therefore, he re­flected long on the question of tbe color for each. The brighter colors, red, orange, yellow, were too lively, not sufficiently solemn for Ills pornose: grf“»n too reminiscent of the pleasures of nature; blue and violet loo easily applied to human moods and fancies. No. he must have something of the pure and the holy. of the dear and tbe shining. In his desperation Ih'e judge cast his eyes above in supplication, and there it was. revealed as Chough in answer to his wish, the pure white of the shining clouds of heaven. And he took materials and created for his book of goodness a.cover that shone as with an inner light, which showed no touch of unchaste color —it was white.
- "Again he bethought himself. No more than they had suited his good book would any color fit his book o.f evii. In the deep of the night, when the moon ßtb full, he pondered his ques­tion. As before, hé sought an answer from the skies. Again he was rewarded. The .shining moon glowed as sliver on-a velvet curtain. He saw once more the shining pureness, but. now he also observes tbe black that so surely con­trasted with it. The deep'and. deadly black that ; would devour and ' destroy bis splendid 'white. The .sinful color that blotted out all other hues and made them even as itself. The evil that could without effort so surely destroy all sem­blance of truth and light-r-one that had In the darkness, that would not make itself known to man. It was 'black, and It was for evil."The good judge looked at his work and re­joiced, satisfied. For there on his table gleamed his good book, his white book,, glowing with the pureness of his soul. Beside it sulked the evil one, the black power, that scourgesvlrtue in the streets, but never vanquishes her.”EDNA ROSENBERG.
Only Three Days Left, Then*—New Director 
Makes Debut 
In Shakuntala
<X'ental Poet'c DXama 
Cons'deXed F'nest 
<f Ind'an TheateX
News Review of Current 
Events the World Over
President’s Defense of AAA and Canadian Treaty— 
Italy Offered Peace Plan at Ethiopia’s Expense 
—Naval Conference Seems Hopeless.
By EDWARD W. PICKARD
Christmas Dinners 
For Out-of-Town Students
I
T IS not much generally known that each 
' year at' this-"time both- the •Gkvistiept • Asso•— 
ciation and the Student Welfare Committee in­
vite to a Christmas dinner on,December-25.all 
of the students, who are unable to reach their 
homes.
not always easy to find the,names of. 
¿11-of* the students who might like to receive 
:ionS: t6 the dinner. Those who arc in- 
id- shpuid iqse -no -Ume in. leaving, their 
VitKvMr; Davis in tht Christian Asso- 
^officg-will insure themselves of 
(itaMe, and joyful .Christmas day. ‘ 
.^Tiie; cndeavprs of. the; Christian Association 
¦^^miie^dmmistrat4onvarG-pFa.iseiHDrtliK,..J:n.. 
¡.Bponsoring^the Christmas meeting the. C. A. is 
^fulfilling 'one:of its primary purposes, making., ^tudferits- feel' at :liome :away-:froiu home. And 
school 'authorities do. .their part m; niakmg;
out of town students \ v!”
How To Be A Dictator
White, on the famous Emporia Gazette for 10 years; now Associate Editor oi Thè American Observer).
I have been asked to submit a monograph for tbe instruction and edification of college undergraduates. It will be about dictators and.how to be one.. The way the world has drifted for the past 10 years and le drifting today, it’s going to be a most important
. DN must have the proper degree of maladjusted endocrine unbalance .make you a mild paranoiac, if your unbalance is
you will be unable to dictate to anybody but the nurse who brings you meals or the man who takes you out Tor exercise, and - your career as a world figure will be ruined.
If you are only mildly pathological, however, then definitely in tbe money, and .you might
thoroughly what people are afraid of, for you be able to scare them into letting you dictate, and to know this, you must be a coward yourself—which you already are, of course, because of your paranoia.If you are a middle-class coward, consider your­self very fortunate indeed. For then you kuo1
ly. An upper-claSs coward is only afraid he will lose what he has, and he doesn’t envy anyone, so he can never perfect the technique of rousing fear and envy. And the proletariat, unfortunately for your purposes, lacks fear. He is already on the bottom, he doesn’t like-it, -but he has no fear of falling be­cause he is alveady down.
like Mussolini, and Hitler, you ha ranks, know their hopes, superstitions, fears, envies, and hates, then, boy, they are your meat, and all you heed is intelligence and industry in tbe art'of stir­ring their fears (so that you can play on those mid­dle class neuroses like Jesse Crawford on the organ) thus a driving pathological paranoiac urge of your own which makes you suffer acutely when you aren’t 
oh the top.You will, of course, make mistakes. In the early part of your carcer, you will falter and fall victim of that fallacy that you shouldn’t promise what you can't deliver, that people are interested in construc­tive measures for'improving feovenime«! and social conditions* Some people are, of course. But not your customers. What you must do on your up­ward path is to denounce evils, not correct them. If you start trying to improve tilings before you are in a position to throttle all criticism, then you have laid yourself wide. cpen. People will see that you are only human and not a deml-god, that, like any other reformer, you can’t deliver quite what you promised, and you will richly merit the political bust on the schnozzle which you will most assuredly get.If you want to become, the heavy sugar daddy of xhe"io-w6T middlfe clas^*s; dou't -waate -y-our tirRe a-nd endanger your career by proposing coucrete. reforms.
substituted for vehemence; if you find yourself fall? Ing back on the truth', recognize this cymptom for what It is—a'danger, warning—a sign that your im­aginative powers are flagging, that you need a couple of weeks’.rest somewhere." Your: job is to induce a mass psychosis, so re-: member: the basic' syroptorps.-of paranoia;, delusions of grandeur alternating wlth hailucinations of per­secution... Tell-your customers in one breath that they, are the greatest; guys-on earth, of a pure and ' noble blood destined to rúlé. ánd in the next that they are beset by sinister1 foes, without and within, .and that you áre the'only'fair-haired boy who fish'them_iout of the soup and hoist them to the
And if vou now. bother me with 6illy questions to what you il do when vou get it. vou haven't the proper glandular and neurotic. set-up to. be a dicta­tor. You have the press, don't vou? And the radio? AntT the public platform? -. And you can burn all the books: you don't like and print some-others that you- do
arguments Jn'the Hoosac Mills: ease 
to whlcb the constitutionality ofI
 the whole Agrlcul- tural Adjustment 
act was attacked 
und defended. Pres­
ident Roosevelt was in Chicago seeking 
to Justify . the en­
tire New Deal farm program. He ad­
dressed the'Amer^ 
css Farm . Bureau Federation in • the 
r- 1 Intfertiotlonbl Aoi'”r®. * phltlieater at" thepeeK stock yards and
was heard and enthusiastically ap­
plauded by'soroe *25,000 farmers and as many others us could get Into 
the theater and adjoiolog wings 
supplied with loud speakers. V
Necessarily Mr. Roosevelt defend­
ed the new Canadian trade treaty because only two dnys before that' pact lind been bitterly attacked 
by his late trade adviser; George N. Peek.
“Jiist as .I am: confident.” said 
the President. - “that the great masses of city people are falr-mlnd* ed, so 1 am sure, that the great ma­
jority of American fanners will be fulr In their judgment.of the
“If the enJamlty howlers should
uflsuiHJictf tlim Onndji und the 
United States will Join lo correct: IriH Inequalities, hut 1 do not be-
iralumiiy liowlwright."
DEFORE the American Farm nil- 
roan federation closod Its con­vention lo Chicago. It adopted it 
resolution endorsing- reciprocal 
trade treaties. To avoid dissensioni 
the resolution did not memion spe­cifically the recent trade ugreement 
between Canada nnd the United States, which lowered the duty on 
many farm products coming In o*er the northern bonier.
Another of the 17 resolutions •adopted at the meeting concerned 
“federal, fiscal -policies." • Iiullcntiiis their uneasiness oflrr the momitlng 
federal deficit, the fanners roi/oni; 
mended that the fiscal policies of 
the government, be .modified, nod that “its revenues shall he In­creased, and. that Its expendituresshall be decreased, within the nest rev 
shall be attained."
The federation also ni resolution pieil^lnp Itself 
the Agricultural Adjnstnu 
lstration act. The meeil Co st*rlous criticism or Ui
A
DbeneEapLaeRn officials statethat President Itoosevelt will 
ask the new congress Tor a SlOO.- OW.fllK» appropriation us the Initial 
fund to launch the federal social security program going into effect 
' January "IT "Tire Tuna Ta foT'fie'oTs; 
trlbuted among the states for th^ 
needy, old .aired-iln.^the form: of-pen­
sions, for maternity nnd child weij. fare, and to aid the blind.State commissioners, and public, 
welfare directors were summoned- 
to Washington by the social a lty board to discuss formulation of 
regulations and procedure.
•“TbH'N Hr'BOEPPEL, congressirfai »J from California, and his son, 
Charles, were found guilty by 
Jury in the District of Columbia Si preme court of conspiring to se 
an appointment to West Point for 
S1.000. They were released on ball pending motion for a new trial- Hoeppel was elected to concress in 
the Roosevelt landslide of ims from the seventeenth California district, 
and was re-elected In Is
s old : his s
ITALY. Is helny punished for start- 1 Ing the war «gainst Klhlopln. mid will he well pniil for stopplnc It 
That In a nutsell ls the status at this writing. Great Britain and 
France reuched an agreemeot as to 
the ofTer to be made to Mussolini berore the Imposition of an oil em­
bargo. set for December 12. This plan for peace drawn up by British 
Foreign Secretary Sir Samuel Hoare 
nnd Premier Laval, was based on the proposal thot Italy should re­
tain purt of the territory ulready conquered la Ethiopia; cbleQy In 
northwestern Tlgre province. Includ- Ing' Add\Va but not' the- iacre'a eliy of Aksuro, nnd that the Italian 
Somaliland border should be recti­fied.' In. return, Ethiopia would be 
given a seaport, either in Erltreo or 
In .British or French territory.« Thus poor Ethiopia, already declared by 
the League of Nations to be a vic­tim of Italian rapacity, would be still .further victimized with the 
consent' of the two great powers 
that dominate the league. Presum­ably If Emperor Halle Seiussle re­
fuses the terms and decides to con­
tinue his tight for tbe territorial. Inviolability guaranteed by 
league covenant, he will' be aban­doned to his fate.
ccoiupllshlng anything 
while, representatives of the United States, Great Britain. France and 
Japan met In Lon______ don and opened the
lygjggg International naval 
conference. Italy al­so was represented, hut cnly an an ob­
server and listener. Prime Ml n Is t e r Stanley Baldwin 
welcomed the dele­gates In a smooth 
address asking the
The Drama Department's new di­rector, Mr. Lovejoy, has not uader- taken the simplest possible produc
first aud fifth -centuries of Kali­dasa, a court poet, this play is con­sidered the finest example of tbe drama of India that is known to the western world. “Shakuntala" romantic play woven about a legend which, although entirely strange In its details, possesses
Those who are able to read the play In its original Sanskrit testify that it is written in poetry of astonishing variety and beauty. Although the translation used in the present production is a badly :oIloquialized version, a certain amount of the intrinsic fineness of tbe poetry remains."Shakuntala" is a loosely con­structed play concerning the love
tlful young girl, Shakuntala, has lived all her life at a itage. We are told of their ing,. their marriage, their cruel sep­aration through a aeries ol unfortu- events, and their ultimate re­union and reconciliation. About these two rather pathetic central figures are ranged a great number
'ants of all degrees, and even a Hon cub., Mr. Lovejoy has succeeded in gaining the favor of the Little The­ater audiences with a production that suggests but faintly tbe beau­ty and charm of this Oriental mas­terpiece. For the majority of those audiences who are unfamiliar with Kalidasa’s play, the Little Theater performance bod Just strangeness and poetry to win their favor. Tbe production possessed a certain artistic finish and de­sign, but only a hint of that beauty
It is, of course, diiflcult to cap­ture the mood c-nd spirit of a play ao far removed from the world about us. Tbe Department of Drama has . made a brave effort. and one that Js appreciated as'such. by mdny of those who witnessed it. Considered purely on its own mer­its. the Little Theater production is an interesting experiment; con­sidered $s a presentation of Kali- dasA’s drama» it Is only moderately well-done.A considerable emphasis wa; placed on rhythmic movement «e substitute for the stylized morion- of the Indian theater. Under Miir oib—td8 direction, the chararler«- achieved a more or lea« n*n»»'»nv rhythm and flexibility. Ther#* wa? however, a tendency to rot* e»nv- • —stylized posings. and .very tr«-- movement alternating with • attempt at consistency. Thf nous circumnavigations of stage were a bit overdone, pr.r,! ularly in tha scene of Shakuntala’ departure, which became unnecep sariiy monotonous and dull.With a few notable exceptions th- character portrayals were fain well done, although a certain pei functoriness was apparent at time.' King'Dusiiyainta. George Lloyd. e> c.ept for a certain indistinctness r speech during the first act. s\n ceeded in capturing and conveyin’ something of the essential lyrlcisn of the play, as did Shakuntala her
to hark back to speakeasy days . . . Just amble over to the Tau Delt house ’ . . and try to get . . . their swinging doors are inned by "One Round" Atlas who bis quaint dialect asks for Iden­tification cards. N
AS A REFLECTION ON the culture to be gained at. the greek lodges we bear that one of the homes is go­ing to publish a booklet on “How to be a Gentleman at no extra Cost."
IMAGINE THE AMAZEMENT Of the brothers of two houses wheo they found that their rushing chair.had turned In the names of several girls as prospective rushees.
BIRD-DOGGING JOE Wilkinson pointing in the right direction Sunday morning . ' . after a long hard fight.
NOW THAT RUSHING Is over we really sleep through classes a clear conscience . . . next ews event will probably be the D U's bringing charges against one
Davis stopped between the Kappa and Delt homes and tried to make up his mind . . . tbe pop'
of their
chief 
leiisen soiNagano demands ........
the c.tlJJin.lfy of unrestricted* naval competition."
Normnn U. Davis offered Presi­dent Koosevelt's suggestion of a 2f 
per cent, reduction in existing naval 
treaty tonnage, or. falling that, a contluuance of presout Aeet llrnita-
Tiien arose Admiral Osaml Nag­ano. chief of the Japanese delega­
tion. and told the confcronce thnl 
Japan demanded parity with Grout Britain nnd the United States In­stead of rlie oxlsiing rv.l-n ratio nnd 
requested a 'Musi and fair agree nient on disarmament." He Said in 
part:
Jnii'nnepe- Kovi'VnioHtit. should hi* 
)>;fsei), upon the fniiiiilJ'nonifll Jd>\. of setting up . . . a common limit 
of naval armaments to he fixed us low as possible, which they shall noi 
he allowed to exceed; simultaneous­ly, ofTonsive forces must he dras­
tically reduced and ample defen­sive forccs provided, so tb to bring 
about a substantial measure of dls- 
uraiAnwihtr-thas-seeurins -a- stat« -»f- Donnienaee and nonaggresslon among -the. powers."
CARLOS MRNniKTA rosljmed as president of Cuba because ot a fierce quarrel In the government 
over procedure for the election of 
a constitutional president. Men- 
dleta had held the office for two years.. Secretary of.. State. Barnet t*ok- bve> the1office -and reappolsted 
»11 members of the cnhlnet. nnd preparations for the electlon went
nnd Shakuntala’s friends, playi by Mary Ann Hughes and Ma Cheffey were In turn amusing at svmpathetic. The fisherman. Jol Hol'and, the irascible
irt.ioilarly effective in the bits which were theirs.Costumes end sets were don with artistry enrf oVill.
EMILY KRAMER.
Wrong Conception 
Of Chicago System
i preparation for five
Princeton-students may now 
as much as they like, so - long 
their' "standing remains un
¦ .^The most pitiful i 1s-, that, of the giri
prominent, and when of the larger houses gives a dance the co-ed who Is excluded agonizes for-days; • The • giTls; th«>\jgh--aot • al­lowed to have national sororities, do have clubs, and no organizations
ducllons of the Aramatlc Associa­tion are patronized by both the stu­dents of the university and out­siders, and the little theater is al­ways packed when plays are given'.The Interfraternity Sing.-the
siasm..by the. majority of students, at the U. of c. They know that all work and no play makes Jack verra dull boy! And when the .ureek.-eiid over, -.aad- iae -young men and women return to campus on Monday there is little sUUiiblins, each person merely leisure y resumes his studying as though he were settling to rend n very pleasant novel which he had neglected to finish last J’riday
gum which was accidently on the bench.
IF MAXIE KEEPS IT .tip more spectators will come' to see him rant and rave than come to. watch the game ’ . . Sam Linton sat too close to the player’s gals and was almost torn to pieces in the excite- mont.
WE'RE JUST WAITING FOR the team to lose its first, game then we can go- on Strike.
rushing week . . . the fraters finally found a man who could take it lying down . . . and how they
BEING AN ENGINEER. Architect, or Maggie Muroh will have no drawbacks on a happy married life
TVAduallngi.claes reoeive. all..theses ‘Personal" letters . . . what a we've got . . . but as ^‘Herman
'SHE STEVES TEREBUS and Trbovltch sitting cheek to cheek T'-r Holer’s claea . . . Doc ask­ed Big Steve to give a' six topic answer . . . coming out of a trance '. prnmplly started to read the -.¦-nr Fvom -'Stooge’s" notebook, after three topics he exclaimed
write like a Chinaman" le Cap" . . . "1 .. .Viller talks like
t peaioD lasting several weeki ending recently for Into Karimo mvcrsiiy of Minnesota student, «hen he found the body of his mcle, Herman E. Karimo, in the »atomy laboratory of the Minae- ota medical school.The youth had :been unable ucate his uncle at the beginning of nd had appealed 1
Karimo had changed addresses
ed to the uni-
j Seibo Scoops
BIBLE COLLECTION 
Twenty-six Greek manuscript 0i 
the New' Testament ace owned b 
the University of Chicago, n ^ 
the second largest collection in ih. country. .
UNIVERSITY REBUILT 
The Unlvereity of Rome be«» Its'633rd year last month, and un J- the direction of Mnwoll« modern buildings are ¡Z 
true ted to replace the prevloui . _jture, the old Saplenza Dai** designed by Michaelangelo, but no
buildings last April, and when Rn Ished they will number 15 and *U cover a p’ot of 208,100 6nuar« meters. They were designed bv the Italian’ architect Marcello Pla centinl,' and wilt include a graina slum and dormitories equips
eign students, and- philosophy ih, -ML
BOOTH RECORDINGS
Actual voice records of Edwli F. Booth, the prominent America! actor, are being preserved in tbi Harvard Theater - C o 11 e c lioi through the efforts of Frederick ( Packard, assistant . professor c public speaking at Harvard.
In April. 1889. Booth had deft -ed two Shakespearian speech» r recording »*f society of a One of Ihese 1 to the Venetian senators concern lug the wooing of Desdemona. a the other. Hamlet’s soliloquy. Be records take exactly 4% miaul, to play, but in the original fora were very faint and- obscured b
eliminated and the voice amplified Copies of the record
tion and interpretation.
In the Health department of Net York city recently enrolled f tensive graduate courses given b:
RADIUM CONTAINERS
chromium.—ACP. .
HOME-MAD^ MARIMBA 
Marimba-conscious people will —r interested to know that a 'Uolver slly of Texas student has rece completed, ' after several mor
and whose weight la 160 pounds, i is tuned , to standard ..pitch and 1 uiiiqne in that it has ba9e i which are not characteristic of lb typical manufactured instrument The length of the resoaalon which control the' volume of tom have been worked out accordìi mathematical graphs.Theirlmba originated amonthe Africans and. was perfected I Central Amcrlca, where it- is r popular today.. It is adapted pa
Professor Ernst Beri, head of U Chemistry . Research Laboralor Carnegie - Institute of Technolog will address a group of executif' of the E. I. du. Pont de Nemours' Company on December 19, at Wl mington, Delaware. His siibla will be "Cellulose Compounds ai other industrial Problems.'
HOME FOR THE 
CHRISTMAS 
HOLIDAY?
QUICKLY«W EC<N<MICALLY
Don’t spoil the thrill of getting home ago*" by worrying 
about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by 
. leaving «Tcrything Raihvay Express. We •will call for 
your-trunks, baggage and personal belongings and send 
them home on fast passenger trains through to destination. 
You can take your train homewithpeace of mind—knowing 
that your baggage will be there quickly and safely. Railway 
Express service is a decided economy in expense, too.
. After y^tion,.send your baggage J?ack jh^.s»me way?... 
We give a receipt on pick-up and a receipt on do* 
livwy...double! prwf of swift,"mire handling.
Far service or information merely or telephone 
926 Penn Avenue ATIantlc 3600
Depot Office: 26th Street and Liberty Avenue 
ATIantlc 3600 Pittsburgh, Pa>
AGENCY, INC.
N A TIO N - WID E R AIL - AIR S E R V ICE
^ TUNE IN ON THE RAILWAY EXPRESS NEWS PARADE X
WEEI • WOR • WHK • Wifi • EWK • WDSU • WFAA \ WGST • KYA • KNX • KSTP • KOMO • WBAL • KOIL f
\_____________________2______________

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
9SA U C Eg¡¡
•I*
By Scotty ChaXlesHti
ONCE AGAIN WE MAKE A MISTAKE. Last week, there being 
no Tartan Sauce, we thought we might catch up by writing the West- 
minster column ahead of time. The answer was wrong so here we are. 
*ilh the rewrite. Oh, Well.
FIRST THING WE KNOW Carnegie Tech won’t haveranybody left 
to play any sport. Upsets just aren't cricket, and with the Plaid 
generally rated as-a setup Its becoming awfully disappointing to the 
big leaguers.
ACCORDING TO THE NEW YORK TIMES the Titans are sup­
posedly the cream of the crop la basketball. We couldn’t get hold of 
a paper for a post game writeup but it should he good. Tbi6 Is the 
first Tartan victory over them, and only their fourth defeat In the last 
three or four years.
MAX HANNUM SAID AFTERWARD that he 
happy to hold It to five points loss.
-folks back home.
1 Mr. Hannum has
would have been 
seven-point credit 
thing to tell the
BEFORE THE SAME, the strategy was to put in tbe dead shots 
2nd liave them shoot with their eyes closed from tbe. bleachers, a:
Tiian defense was classed as airtight. However, the ambulance 
-the Plaid sharpshooters before Westminster ond a change was neces­
sary. Need we talk about the result?
THE WESTMINSTER BOYS BEING UNION MEN, organized a 
strike after the.debacle to get back Backus. It might have been dif­
ferent with him In but we are satisfied with things as they 6tand. 
The boys deserved a win and they got it.
c5cpa MAN ON THE FLOOR- was an individual star. Joe Ma- 
Icalka is not spectacular but was one. of the most valuable men on the 
floor. Loole-blooie Jagnow Is credited with winning the game and did 
a swell job of bucking up the spirit. .Charley Fitzwilson was high 
scorer and was really doing swell In spite of Injuries.
THERE-.WERE SO MANY INJURED BOYS on the Skibo squad 
that it 'looked as though they would have to make substitution 
means oF a stretcher squad. Before the game Max fett pretty low 
about It. In faet, at one point he was ready to trade In the whole 
crew for the accident ward of the Presbyterian Hospital—and he fig* 
ured he would have to throw his typewriter In to get anything out of 
It Now, with the boye going around and doing so welt In the throes 
of pain, Mr. Hannum 1b seen 6neaklng up behind them and breaking 
lege just to 6peed them up a little.
ONE THING THAT POOLED THE WESTMINISTER preachers 
vas that cutevlittle¦ sucker play -irlib Ihe catfcac— and.-special:double 
-reverse, patent pending Boy Scout jack knife movement. The boys
played smart by hiding it for the first-half and then letting it go. The 
strategy was that the Titans could have written to their congressmen 
- and found the'answer before tbe intermission was done.
THE PROSPECTS FOR THE REST of the season are swell, but 
don’t expect the Iad6 to sweep everything In spite of the spectacular 
fcselnnlRg. Also to the.credit ©? the P!a!d !s a tie-with the 
Wllllgs In a practice game and pep rally aome weeke back. The final
register was 36-36 with only five Tech men In the game. The only
substitution sent "Red" 'Silverman Into action.
WE ARE EASILY IMPRESSED, but we still are amazed at tbe 
amount of basketball the players know. On Inquiring, we learned that 
Max is catching on very rapidly and learns something new every day. 
Tho boys are awfully patient with him in some things. If Mr. Hannum 
should read this, we are only clowning.
ONE LEFT OVER PRE-SEASON ITEM we are warming up for 
Sunday supper sounded well for the floorsters. It seema people have 
been coming from mllee around to see^thls Krltscher-Jagnow combin­
ation. However, both boys have since gone rather hors de combat, or 
19 it nom de plume? Not willing to disappoint their pubtlc, the boys 
may put on a neat exhibition of double solitaire between the halves.
¦FOOTBALL STILL EXISTS IN OUR MIND as something of a 
hangover, what with people sneaking up a whispering Bweet nothings 
in our ear from time to time. Tho Michigan State game is definitely 
sellled for October tenth. The rest of the schedule is also in for some 
changes.
ANOTHER NICE WARM R^M.OR of the moment-has it that the 
Education Council has granted the Ai A.’s request for two extra days 
off from school to make time for a possible Texas Christian game for 
which negotiations are . being-made. . The-rest of the-story- Is tl- 
will be played at the Dallas Centennial. We can let you know as 
as official announcement is made. How's that for service, j. H.?
The A. A. MEETING THE OTHER NIGHT confirmed the popular 
opinion that tbe Mr. Henrion is the best ball player the school has 
seen in some time. Nestor was appointed next year’s captain by unani­
mous consent. The lad also walked off with the Curbstone Coaches’ 
ward of the best ball player In the city which makes aome All-Amer­
ican selections look rather silly.
THIS COLUMN HAS YET TO ATTEMPT an AM-A.merlcan 
selection as we don’t believe In that sort of thing. However, an 
has just landed and we are figuring out an all time All-American that 
|s slightly different from the general run of gooflea.- We are now \ 
ing on one that Involves boys that have tried out for the Tech squad 
and were either cut or couldn’t stay In school.
So far our selections Include Cliff Montgomery of Cotunibia, Monk 
Moscrip of Stanford, Renzo of Temple, Brumbaugh or Duquesne and 
several othera of some note.
.....ACCOKD1WJ TO’ TffE ’PITTSBURGH ’PRESS one' Mr. HvmibiniMi-
's among Ohio State’s more promising freshman ball carriers. This 
satn© Mr. Hinchman wag given a two-day trial here and cut. from the 
squad as not good enough . which just goes to prove how much better
are than Ohio State.
arc PAST FEW WEEKS- HAVE produced another nice array of
n°rs on the coaching situation, all cellophane wra^ied and un­
touched by human‘hands.* By thlatim© It Is absolutely certain that the 
head coach for next .year Is SQlng to be Harpster, Red Grange, Lou 
,L|ttle, Chick Meehan. Dick Harlow. Lydia E. Plnkham and Groucho 
[Marx. We have taken the fact that we did not even receive honorable 
^en^an. as-: a- direct -affront. Incidentally,-we recommend for hat- 
Pa.t.ng, Howard Harpster ^pd Andy Kerr.
• THE LETTER-PFIN-TING IS SOMETHING new.... We pride our-. 
-c,>es that we even manage to receive mail. There have been several 
eP-tlca m the course of the vear. but we chose to print Mr. B eiver a,
** most representative of the general tone. Incidentally, we are 
®°t re0ponsible for anything said in these and they are not to be taken 
‘ opinions-
k- but al-
A. A. Rewards 
Star Tackle 
At Meeting
Nestor Henrion Named 
1936 Grid Capt ain; 
Managers Chosen
HENRION RECEIVES 
CURBSTONE AWARD
Football Letter and Numeral 
Winners Announced At 
Recent Meeting
On Monday, December 9, the Carnegie Athletic Association held their annual meeting at. the close of the football . season. At this meeting Nestor Henrion was ap­pointed to; the captaincy of- next year’s eleveD. Henrion was the logical choice of both the players,
cause of hi during not ,only, this . so hie sophomore year.
Henrion first came to the atten­tion of the spectators during his sophomore year when he was play- uara position on’ the team, especially fine on defensive line-play, and consistently broke up plays before they , had any real chance of beginning. On offensive play* he-was equally as effectl^ the blocking and charging work of a lineman. Henrion is at his best In the-guard position. He is just tbe type of player tbat fits in nat­urally there. He Is fast enough to pull out of the line on running plays, a hard charging player, and excellent blocker. This year, however, because of the scarcity, of tackle material and the wealth of guards he was transferred tackle- position. At> this position he still the pillar of strength of the Carnegie team, although' cording to the consensus of opini of most of the people concerned he would bavo been better as a guard.
Last week Henrion was voted as the best player of any of the Pitts­burgh college players, by the Curb* Coaches Association, an or­ganization of sports writers. :oaches, and others deeply interest­ed in sports. This is quite an honor to be so selected and Car­negie should feel proud that one of our team members was chosen. The player chosen last year was Welnstock of the University of Pittsburgh.
The Athletic Council also award­ed to the following players varsity letters: Trbovich, Tevebus, Kohout, Boyd, Bowser, Anderson, Patt, Kel­ler, Moore, Sanford, Henrion, Hall, Yeknicb, Slaminko, Kelly, Chyc- zewski, Kawchak, Sutherland, Spi- sak, Kopcsak, Matelan, Fryer, Leh­man, Rosenthal, Napotnik. .'
Freslnnau numerals were award­ed the following players: Cratsly. McHugh, Hill, Lloyd, Campbell, J. Henrion, Pysynski, Musial, Alexan­der, Scout ten, Lee, Carnelly, Za- wacki, Fouse, and Ingalls.
This past year's managers of the varsity and fresmen team, Schmid and Shannon, were also awarded varsity letters.The Athletic Council also select­ed for next year as the varsity manager; w; Thomas Lord, and for freshman manager, Eugene Fergu*
Fifteen freshmen have tho dis­
tinction of making their class rifle 
team, all of which places these 
ime fifteen tenderfoot In line for 
national champion candidates, one of them to be just llko our Mary, maybe. The glory of possessing that-plaque of honor now on dis­play in ludustry Building should he n sufficient challenge to any freshmnn, and upperclassman to», , to se'b how long n time we can board It from rival colleges. Brief­ly. the fifteen new hopefuls are: Patterson, Shepherd, Bright, No­vak, Myers, Milllkln, Lehr, McKen­na, Heuer, . Smith, Laugbner, Scheldt, Frost, Mathewson, and Escholv. The varsity, too, has claimed 6ome fresh material for their already promising stock, namely: Terry, Shaw, Brlstline,Magnuson, and Gray. Placement matches are in progress each week, while, there Is yet another elimina- *'on coming up.
Like buBiuoss in general, there lios also been an encouraging pick­up in basketball and bowling tourn*, outs. In fact, the grand total for I the latter now numbers eighty-five, you will find the names listed in the Student. Directory, thirty-flve cents (adv.). However, there are still some flfleeu or twenty who have not explained the presence of their.signatures on the list. Rose has several commoiidable scores un record up to date, with one Jean Levison in .the lead, averaging an approximate 120. For tho benefit of those who are still pestering the kindly gym teaohers with the trito . ‘‘Do we have to have experience?” for both basketball and bowling, I 1 shall say, after counting very slow-
en, "No Indeed,, my little ¦ one, even a beginner oft times - works herself up to fame.”
Nevertheless, just to confuso : you, the rule is just the opposite J for dancing. In direct contradict tlon,. those of you .who report for '¦ th« cap claeses on Wednesdays, at * 12:30, must have had some expert-' ence in tapping, though it matters i not how little. Miss Knnrlch will'- officiate. ’Tie all for this week- ;• this mouth, this year—there Isn’t ^ any more. My gcouueas. how mass-7 does fly!
And now for some kindly advice - from your sporte editor concerning ' activities over tho. Chriqtmas holi* > days. There win probably be plenty :• of opportunity for bob-sledding and : skating, especially for those who ' are going home toward the north; .' Since hockey has become so popu- ; lar in Pittsburgh, maybe some pEo you girls will try that.-but it isn’t;' recommended for anyone who isn’t : rather rugged. Ice-skating, how­ever, can bo the most fun—'with a big bonQre and marshmeilows to : toast. Skliug requires a little more •; skill than most of us nave, but now ; —C as good a time ns nnr to learn. ' and those new skiing suits are so - attractive.For those who don’t like to spend all tbe time in the open, there are : lots of Indoor amusements. Lots ^ or you have seemed to like bowling very much. This vacation will give you a splendid choiice to catch up ­on your practice. This’sport-haB i become more and more popular with the girls here at our deaf al« - mn mater, and it realty Is healthful.-So goodbye now, and Til see von all in the spring, whloh begins on ¦: Junuary sixth.
In The Editors9 Mail
Plaid Upsets Titans 
In Fast Opener, 37-30
Inspired Tartans Regain Löst Lead in Final Quarter As Jagnow, Fitzwihon Star in Seesaiv Game; Prospects Bright for' Future Contests
Choose yt 
as you
a friend 
?
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
•Pittsburgh. Pa.
By Johnny Weinberg
lontinuiiis the tactics used by 
the football team, during the past 
season, Carnegie Tech's basketball 
squad upset all- the. smart money 
¿gain by taking the highly touted 
Westminster team into camp last Thursday night by the very en­couraging score of 37-30. , .
The entire contest was a series of thrills for the fans who came prepared for the worse. The Plaid won and lost the contest a halt dozen times before they really gol down to Berlous work in the last quarter, and from then on It was soft lights and sweet music for the' Titans. ''
The Tartans started out like a house afire and a few'minutes be-
was short lived. Suddenly the Westminster bunch came to. life, and led by Wes Bennett, they put oil a bit of legerdemain and when the referee let loose his blast at he end of the first half, Westmin- ter was leading by the margin .of ne point,: namely a 14-13 tally.
The second half opened with, a1 errific bang as the Titan machine started to click- on. all five. Ben-1 continued to lead his team-! s, and aided by some excellent I passing,' in a few minutes, the I country cousins had accumulated’a! 23 poluts to the Plaid 141
about to call it a bad day and pass the dice things began to happen in the Hannum camp. Fitzwilson re-
flually, lo give tbe crowd a good run for their money. Tech shot In­to the lead and kept there. When the 'shouting - had 'died down, and everyone bad decided to call it a day Max Hannum was the very proud father of a bouncing 37-30 victory, and very nest day; the stu­dents at Westminster were on a strike as a result of a certain star declared Ineligible, and
first half returned lobtilngiora^bli of trouble; Fltz and Jagnow then staged a show that bad the fans on their feet most of the Lou’s passing was superb, and he kept feeding the ball with a deadly effect. - The combination of Jag­now to Fitzwilson was particularly dangerous for the lads who hate j to lose basketball games. - 
, The tide began to change frc then-towards the exists by Fitzwilson and Shomo Tartans back Into the running. Joe I
who 
I.VhoW.| McCoy-<m the ball.
The Carnegie ‘aquad really de­
serves a' lot of sincere praise as a 
I result of their victory over West- | minster. Hampered by injuries, hope wae held by the
<X'e Xniversity!
SCHOOL OF. MEDICINE 
DURHAM, N. C.
(gnduat 
colloso '
will see the Plaid five rise to great heights.
The team is scheduled to meet several of the district quintets over the holidays. On December 18 they make the trip to Waynesburg for the first game. In view of the fact that the Skibos downed Westmins­ter, the Waynesburg game looks good for the boys. The floor squad
Dear Sir 
I read with, deep interest your artideB appearing in the November 19th iBsue or the Carnegie ‘Tartan” entitlod, “Tartan Offers Survey of Gridiron Situation” - 'Sauce.’* There Is________the fact that alumni are critical wheu a conch fails to produce win­ning teumB. ¦"’* - • .........-be? They i
Industrial world where it li_______lor of the survival of the fittest and results must be produced, s! They expect a football coc do only what they are obllt-.. lo do In everyday life. So much for that.
Frankly, it would appear that there-is Bomelhlng wrong in thf coaching of Tech teams. They ar pear to Tack proper eo.achlne. In-the fundanleiUiilsV ’ and’ for the past
they have committed just about every thing wrong in the book.
As “Al" Smith says, "Let’s look at the. record.” If my recoljectlon ’s freshman team i in the last years with Pitt’s freshman, team. This fact would indicate that Tech ma- . . with pitts. Then, with proper coaching why
that in your opinion the difficulties are—lack of confidence In the coach, laxity, and inability of the
from down Panthers o money, though, and the Tartans will have to drop plenty of shots to cinch the win.On the 2Bth the Case team at Cleveland plays host to the Scots.
their league In previous years.The first Intercollegiate confer* ence game for the Carnegie lad­dies happens uary fo.urth i West Virginia team also gave Pitt ri o-nort flp-ht recently.
coaching staff, to properly inspire - Ihe team. Lack of confidence is usually justified. You wouldn’t feel . very *confldentt going out after-' some fellow armed with a gun if < had a pea shooter—would you?
t justified ia :body or alumni are having confidence in him.
A word about inspliallon About . . i1D20 an undefeated Notre Daqit) ^team played , Tech at Pittsburgh <Tbe lato Knute Rockne thought 6R < ; ilittle, of the game that he didn t ^-^iii- f even attend. The walloping that I J Notre Dame received is history..But the faots are these, the:bast ’ "* I team didn’t win, It was the-lest •. tiU -d team that day that wonl udge —2L—^ Steffen inspired..the_Tecli the point' iiiai 'Cnwy were ;.unbéafa*"iWÌf^ì ble that day.. The conclusion' be that a coach unable to ini his team cannot, produce win teaniB.
The facts eia stated above indicate tbat a drastic change must ¦qUi he. made. in .coaching- tnethodB< <It would tend to show that what lac needed 1b. an experienced success- ,:ìv.':: fui coach who has produced results and such a coach should -be. — ' " cured;
Now a -word about the graduate manager’s department. I presume that "publicity’*' is under the-.au* pervislon of this department.- .Well;- there is little or none of that. The Philadelphia Sunday papers carry;, usually, nothing about Tech's-Sat* urday. game (except the score) -un* less Tech is playlng Temple -or
graphs. You can deduce from-: that if euoh Is the tho size of Philadelphia which .la
think Carnegie Tech’s football t represents the U. S: Steel. Colv^-i 
time something'was dpiiei about these matters! and It is your .......=._ ___ duty to your school ,to use vour la­the night of Jan- fluence and that of your column. to Morgantown. The | produce the necessary change.- : • 
Yours'very trulv.
V!
rSlenetU B, R. BERVER. I '23. :
SWEEPING MONEY-BACK OFFER TO PIPE 
SMOKERS SETS WHOLE CAMPUS TALKING!
OUR OFFER TO PIPE SMOKERS:
Smoke2D«gnmpipeful^fPriiira Afom.'XTyou doift tadit the mellowest, 
tvpett pipe tobacco you'ever «motced, . return the tin with tlx teat of (he 
tobacco in It» lad we will refund fulf purchase price, plus potfage.
(Signed) R. J. Reynolds Tohacco Company, Wuuton-Selem, N. C.
.If you are a pipe smoker who 
would, enjoy a'better amokey this 
remarkable you-moat-be-pleased 
offer is nght down yoo|’ alley!
Get a tin of Prince Albert at vous 
dealer's.'Smoke 20 pipefuls. If yon' 
don't say P. A. is the mildest end 
choicest-tastmg smoking tobacco 
you everhad.'.retnrn the tin with
and we(make good, as told above. 
You Be the Judge! The risk fa 
all on us. Prince Albert has to 
satisfysyou. And we believe it will. 
-For tt© ose-enlr choice* npe-mild- 
tobacco. Then it is "cnmp cut" 
for slow burning and cool smoking- 
The .bite’* 19 removed to make 
. it absolatelv certain that Prince 
Albert is mild and delicate in taste
... t scb aroard 53 pipe ­
fuls of choice tobacco in tbe big 
2-ounco economy tin of P A It’a 
at your nearest campus dfalcr'sl
T
 pipefuls of swell tobac* 
co in every two-ounce 
tin of Pnnee Albeit
THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 17. 1935
night School Section of Tartan
GeneXal "News-Ed'toX'al Com­
ment-FXateXnal <Xgan'zat'ons
Eng'neeXs Hold Dance SatuXday 
‘The Eth'op'an Cause’—Ed'toX'al
Appearing in* 
This Week’s 
Issue I
Hoivard Darbh 
To Council V
n Re-Elected 
ice-Presidency
Student Has Taken Part 
In Major Ac’iyities 
Óf Night School
In keeping with th^ policy of giving weekly a brief history of a member of the Night Student Coun­cil, the staff takes great pleasure this week in presenting Mr. How­ard Durbin.
Having been on the campus for a number of yeak-s, Mr. Durbin is now serving his second year on council by virtue of being elected Treasurer of the College of Indus­tries, where he served in this samo capacity during the past year.
In recognition of his activities work, Howard has been awarded two insignias. In addition to his present office, he is also serving as vice president of the Night Student.Council, which position be capably, filled last year. Howard is enrolled in the Mechanical Drafting Course of the college of Industries.
PLAID LEADER |
X'
Students Are'Urged To 
Use Registration Cards
The Plaid wishes to Impress up­
on the night students that the regis­
tration card, whicb'is Issued at the 
time of registration, Is a certain means of identification, and it 1s es­sential.that this card be carried at all times. The registration card permits a night, Btudent to attend the functions of his Individual col­lege. Recently, a- number of stu­dents were in on embarrassing po­sition because of the lack-of this registration card. Therefore, get Into the habit of carrying your reg-
HOWARD DURBIN
SAFE WAY BUS
Excursion Rates to
Round Trip
Chicago .......................$12.00Detroit ........................ 8.00Cleveland .................... 3.50Philadelphia ................. 10.60New York.......-........... 10.50
All Seats Reserved 
Phone COurt 1526 
946 LIBERTY AVENUE
I <lA Merry Christmas 1 
1 .ji Happy New Year11
§ RIECK - McJUNKIN DAIRY CO. §
"The Ethiopian Cause”
EDITOR’S NOTE: ^
Furthermore, wc believe Ihe^ 
covering the Ethiopian Bldo of the eoatrov. 
'.There is, io reality,.mach more| 
than, merely an Ethiopian side andj 
an Italian side, and It is necessary I that this be made extremely clear. | In the first place. It must "be under­stood that Itnly la not only at­tempting to enslave an independent nation: Italy is, In fact, threaten­ing the entire, structure of world peace! Perhaps, however, I should¦ not flay Italy, for certainly the Ital­ian people, as do all peoples, de­sire comfort anS -eecnrîty, the
"rightful fruits of their labors. It is Benito Mussolini, symbol of finance-capital, who is responsible; he and tie class that supports him. It becomes all tlie more sig­nificant then that this is not mere­ly an attempt of Italy to expand for . thé benefit of "her people, even though in doing so she brings cnl- - ture lo the heathen Tartarian tribes1 of . Ethiopia by dropping bombs on their hospitals. at night and ex-1 ' plotting their m 
.her., own at homi 
. The writer of the faclst article . in . the Plaid says: “none o£ that v fantasy one reads In the papers about Italian imperialism In Africa. That fantasy, I am rore, is In no Italian heart today!” I am going• tomake clearer this talk about im­perialism, for It. Is very Important.Imperialism ie that stage of capl- -tallam where the home maTketB.are Bucked dry—exploited unti) they¦ can no longer be exploited, and the capitalist class of the country has •to reach out and .expand, take in• other lands so that they may ex­ploit anew. This can be very easily proven in Italy’s case, for it I». openly, admitted In the 1932 report -of .the Secretary of State for Cor- vporatloDS that; . "Between June,: ;,1027, and. December, . 1928, the v^irages of industrial workers have . gone down by about 20 per cent, and a further reduction of 10 per ".: iient was made in 1929; during 1930 '•'tbere' had been a general reduc-| . ';tiòn, varying for the different B-oTlea of workers from 18 to 25 per ^Tjeht; Many oilier adjustments.have been realized In 1931."—Further- x iriore, reports- have shown that be- ¿V. tween 1923 and 1932 the coBt of Ùyingwas reduced 5 per cen •’• wages reduced 40 to 50 per i::ThIs report is from the League of ¡¦Nation's Bulletin mensuel de stàtis* ’tliqüg; Genève, FebTaury, 1933, page v'^l—Should one, however, doubt, nvEeagne figures and term them iï-feiasad there are’ always the official • Vfaisclflt figures, taken from thé Boi- ietlne dei prezzi, January 12, 1933, Kyjjtege 44, to turn to, and these show <¦ a-reduction in the cost of.living of v 'oniy 10 per cent as compared to •1914, while at the same time the¦ ’fascist Corriere della Sera (July 27, :3982)' ¿dmittôd. that in four-years ¦; tha wage cuts' totalled 50 per cen'. '.The' official Lavoro Fascista (Ni l .vember 29, 1931) stated that in -ysome provinces wages had been re- càVicèa from 45. to 60 per cent In ; :;i931! All. these things, surely do v:'.not speak well for fascism so far ; vas helping the Italian people is con- ••e’erned.' They also show that Italy, .'•¦¦/under,the influence of Mussolini is ' rapidly going bankrupt, that
• • vsed np and becoming worthless to :-:the ..finance-capit^lista.
The; Italian, article in [the Plaid = ¿100 ¿tat^dr vil-'it were not for T'fasclsm Italy would be a Bolshe*
vistic nation today." Without in-! quiring of the young Italian writer I what is so horrible about Bolshe-I >m when the wage rate and living conditions in the Soviet Union Is going up steadily every year and there is no annual national deficit (Italy's deficit annually Is between three and four billion lire) I Bhall endeavor to disprove his statement. I shall quote from George SeldeB,
and Turin ln i920. Mr. Seldes says: ‘‘Having personal knowledge, from lual experience, that there was i Bolshevlc revolution in 1920, having Mussolini’s own approval of the strike . and' its methods, and
disorders of 1918 and 1919 hud been followed by two years 1920 and 1921, in which peace and pros­perity had been restored, I was amazed when, in 1925, Mussolini propagated the claim that he had saved Italy from Bolshevism."
This claim was made coinci­
dent with the arrival of the repre­
sentatives of J. P. Morgan and 
Company; Dillon, Read and Com­
pany; and other bankers in Rome. It was the banking fraternity which proposed t6 Mussolini the circulation of the Bolshevlc myth, that the Italian loans could float in 1925 while he was etlll feeding the public stories about the Red Terror. But here in Italy was the Black Terror operating all about us, and not a. word was be­ing printed in the world press/'
So regards the reference made the Jews in Germany, the Ital­ian student says: ' "Hitler has ex­pelled the Jews and made some n for Germany. In Italy, how- ’, which is chiefly populated by Italians there —C no one to expel it becomes necessary for Italy to expand beyond her bor­ders.1’ It is hardly necessary ' again go into Italy’s “need for panflfon.’’ I believe 1 explained that1 extent while talking of iui periallsm. The same applies t< Germany. Hitler did not pick oi the Jews simply because they
J* . ON YOUR
-. Christmas Vacation
TRAVEL BY
MARTI LINES
:;'"^v>'‘ Round Tri|
¦*¡5 Nov
'•¦Akron ___-_ 3.50 - Boston' Chlearo' ____12.00 Detroit
¦ ¦ •One Way Fare Rates Al6o Reduced
FoX a Beal Del'c'ous 
Home-Cooked Meal
.EAT AT
Mary’s Restaurant
327 South CXa'g StXeet
Near, Forbes StreetI
 -.Try Our Speclal 25c Luncheon. 
EAT WHERE YOUR FRIENDS . .. MEET .:•'
Tech Baiber Shop
_ CXa'g and FoXbes 
<akland
(
;;Hene6tPriceevFalthful Frômlé**'
F<RBES CLEANING 
' Mnà TAIL<RING C<.
4526 FORBES STREET _
I-Corner Craig M Ayflower. 9728
notice this will have a tough job uniting the split ranks of the peo­ple. without united effort the peo­ple haven't a chance, and their ene- galns everything! To further re my point: wherever racial minorities exist In the capitalist ’orld there is race hatred and ter- or. In America there were sixty- seven lyncblngs of innocent negroes last year. On the Pacific the Chi- are hated'because the capital­ists hire them for a few cents a day and use them as a buffer against the white worker. This al­ls true of the negro in the South. To get b.ack to Germany, still fur* ther proof even Is that the four largest-department stores in Berlin owned by Jewish capitalists. Hitler, apparently,, is not hurting the capitalist of whatever race, only the small merchants,- the mid­dle, professional, and -working class­es suffer.
I have not said half of what I wish to say, however thie article must close now because, of .space limitations In the Plaid. I have' tried to keep this about the same length as the Italian students’ arti­cle, yet it is much simpler and takes far less words to make a dog malic statement than It does to dli prove It.
Liberals, and many others. The capitalists use these Tacial minori­ties effectively to further their ends.F They keep the masses of
more. Also, these mass­es are so busy fighting each other that they neglect to notice their
Engineers Will 
Hold Dance On 
Saturday Eve,
Knox Milligan Chosen By 
Committee to Play 
At Annual Fete
Ticket Returns 
Should Be Sent 
To John Schur.ok
All students who sold tickets for 
the Night Student Council Thanks­
giving dance and who have’noi 
made their returns, are requested 
> so immediately. Prompt 
pliance with this request Is n 
eary so that the. treasurer 
clear up his books before sending 
out tickets for the next di 
Séad.all returns to John Schurko, 
treasurer or Night Student Council, 
Box 136, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Postage will be necessary if letters are dropped in
Arrangements have been com­
pleted for the annual Christmas 
dance which .will be presented by 
the College of Engineering on Sat­
urday evening in Thistle hall. 
Dancing will be in progress from 9 
till 12. As this event will be the 
last night school social function un- 
the Christmas holiday, a 
large attendance is anticipated.
To lnBure the success of the sec­ond Engineering function of the current year, the officers have en­gaged Knox Milligan and his ten piece orchestra to render the novel hythm - which h«B made the or-
tain to meet with the stringent de- ands of the blase’ engli It is rumored that plans have
admission fee of one dollar per 
Among the Invited guests who
Emerson M. Pugh, Dr. and
Mrs. John Boyd and Mr. and Mrs; Arthur S. Marthens.In view of the many necessary last minute preparations for the af- an urgent request for workers ade. There-will be three, pe­riods In which workers may par­ticipate. On Saturday afternoon, Thistle hall will be opened at one i'clock to admit those who caro o assist in the decoration of the tall and other incidentals, second period .will require i
the final period, on the Sunday fol­lowing the-dance, wUl involve the removal and packing of the decora-
Christmas Vacation 
Starts December 21
All : students are asked to- make special note of the change In the time of the Christmas va­cation period. Officially this period will commence at 4:30 P. M., Saturday, December 21, and classes will résume on Monday, January 6, 1936! at 8:30 a. m.
Do Your Xmas Shopping at'jthe
Wood Sawn Pharmacy
YOUR CAMPUS DRUG STORE 
Select Your Gift Now From Our Large Selection and Let 
Us Deliver or Mail It For You
Here Are a Few Suggestions
FOR HER 
OANDY 
PERFUME 
TOILET SETS 
BOOKS (Any Title)
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTION
KODAK 
MANICURE SETS
FOR HIM * 
CIGARS 
CIGARETTES 
MILITARY BRUSHES 
SHAVING SETS 
PIPES {Any Eraad) 
POCKETBOOK 
SCHICK ELECTRIC/ 
RAZOR
And Many Other Suitable Gifts 
At Reduced Prices
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS. PLATES: 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COLOR;NEWS and COMMERCIAL]
-—-ART p
FOR ALI I LLU STRÁTIYE 
PURPOSES
Campus 
Beauty Shoppe
BEAUTY, CULTURE IN ALL • -ITS BRANCHES- • j Marcel,- Shampoo, Finger Wave,' ¦ ~! Henna Rinse, -1Manicure and Hot Oil [ Guaranteed 'Permanent Waving;
CaXXtpusBaXbeXShop
¡SERVICE and SATISFACTION “ 5176 Woodlawn Avenue
• MAyflower 3921
YPEWRITYWIS $14.95 TO $75.00Liberal Terms,... . Free Trial
RENT A TYPEWRITERr Firat Three Monthfl’ Rental Applles to Purchaan eaul
Fort _ Pitt Typewriter Co.
^’^•HiUittTTvAVENU^MeCliy Building
^Mtabllrtied over twenty ya«r«
’Tis Said
THAT a former Industries stu­dent has been shouting and bawl­ing for at least 12 years because he has not been able to run thè night school. He ought to ac­cept an old age pension and stick to his knlttlnV
THAT we know where the Idea for the.Phi Nu dance signs
THAT Dick Shields Is Just a' little “HliLL” billy these eve-
THAT Jenny Sch Mr. have evidently patchiuptheir Httle dlffe now Just one big happy family
THAT strange as It may seem there were three Council members In the hall the other evening and not one of them had a key to the Council room.
THAT Wm. Moles states that man may learn to fly like a bird, but he’ll never learn to 6lt on a barbed wire fence.'
(Eantpgi* piatii
’a«e edited tr Might School ctnknu m
William Wessely
Staff ’
R. A. Lahr G. McCormackW.J.Nolgot A. J. LoisD. O. Davis J. J. Page
“I’d like a couple of hard boiled eggs to take out,” said the young fellow to the girl at the lunch counter. “All right,” replied the , waitress with a smile. ‘You'll have I to wait. Mamie and I don’t get off il'10."
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
<akland BXanchForbes and Meyran
“THU <AKLAND 
BANK"
O
IN THE 
CENTER <F 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE- SYSTEM
Of course you'll give cigarettes for Christmas, 
They’re such aQ acceptable gift—«such an easy so­
lution of your problem. And Carbels £11 the bill 
so perfectly. They’re made from-finer? MORE 
EXPENSIVE. TOBACCOS than any other popular 
braadi- They-are--the-eccepecd-cigarette-of the 
social, business, and athletic worlds. Their finer to­
baccos give thatplea£ant',lift,p— that sense ofwell- 
beiog so appropriate to the spirit of Christmas.
I At your nearest dealer’s 
I ¡you’ll find this gay pack-
1 age — the Camel canon —_
, packs of “20’s”-r 200 cigarettes.
Here’s a full-pound 
of Prince Albert, lux- 
iriousiy packed in a 
eal glass humidor that 
keeps Prince Albert in 
perfect condiaon and be­
comes aweleomepossession.
fenceAlhert
Fine tobacco for Christmas. For more than a quar* 
ter of-a century; the mellow firagraficc of Prince 
Albert has been as much a pare of 'Christmas as 
mistletoe aud holly. So to the pipe smokers on 
your Christmas list give Prince Albert, "The 
National Joy Smoke.” It’s the welcome gift. For 
more men choose Prince Albert for themselves than 
any other pipe tobacco. Let every pipeiul of 
Prince Albert repeat Meiry Chnstmas ’ for you.
