Volume 90, Issue 4
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190625 September 1995
Crowds upbeat at career fair
Recruiters, students mingle at last week’s TOC
y JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Thistle Gymnasium looked more like 
a street fair than a career fair last Thurs- 
lay, as 95 companies vied for the atten- 
,ion of students at the Technical Oppor- 
nmities Conference.
They used brightly colored displays, 
iroduct samples, Frisbees, and "candy 
•ars to entice prospective employees. 
Corporate images ranged from the but- 
on-down formality of Westinghouse to 
eans and sport-shirts at Microsoft. 
Despite the heat and humidity inside 
;he gym, crowds were steady all day, 
.nd most recruiters were upbeat.
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy called the student-run TOC “ex- 
•emely important.”
“For some students, this is the first 
ime they really have a chance to inter- 
.ct with a company,” he said, adding 
hat it helped them develop “interper- 
ional skills.”
“For the first time, they’re talking to 
jeople about what their career goals 
ire,” said Murphy.
Vashti Schwarha, a Heinz School 
master’s student, had talked to a num- 
ier of companies, including Bayer, 
Kodak, and J.P. Morgan and Co. She 
. that the TOC is geared toward un- 
lergraduates, and as a result, isn’t as 
¡seful to her as it could be.
“There’s a target market they’re try-
Large and small companies exhibited at Thursday’s Technical Opportunities 
Conference, but well-known firms such as Motorola sometimes had the edge.
ing to reach,” she said. “It meet's my really looking for the undergrads, and 
needs in terms of getting information, for people with a little more computer- 
but as far as hiring, it doesn’t. They’re Please see TOC, page 3
ResLife clarifies 
alcohol policy
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Rumors of a new alcohol policy that 
would allow EMS to issue citations to 
students for alcoholTrelated offenses 
are unfounded and false, said Tim 
Foster, director of Residence Life.
“I don’t know where these rumors 
started... the alcohol policy in effect is 
the same policy the University has 
had,” said Foster. “What we have done 
is maintained the incentive for stu­
dents to call EMS when they or a 
friend has had too much to drink.” 
James LaPaglia, Chief of Campus 
Police, told freshmen during Orienta­
tion that he would not issue citations 
to students who needed medical at­
tention for alcohol consumption.
Last week, Foster sent letters and 
met with Resident Assistants, Com­
munity Advisors and Greek presidents 
to address the existing disciplinary 
process for alcohol-related violations 
of University policy.
“I wanted to clarify our approach to 
follow-up sessions,” he said. “Terms in 
the policy like ‘held in abeyance’ and 
‘case by case basis’ cause problems for 
us and confuse people.”
When a student is written up by
Campus Police for underage drinking, 
public intoxication or another alcohol- 
related offense, Residence Life and 
Student Affairs are notified and ar­
range a follow-up session with the 
student.
“We try to see if alcohol is a problem 
in their life — if they need help,” said 
Foster. Depending on the offense, a 
student will have to pay a fine, do 
community service or be put on proba­
tion.
But Foster said he is trying to lessen 
disciplinary action against students 
when they report alcohol-related inci­
dents and act responsibly.
Instead, most of the follow-up ses­
sions with students will focus on a 
“developmental conversation” which 
will evaluate the students’ relation­
ship with alcohol and recommend a 
course of action. ,
The new approach to the policy would 
encourage RAs, CAs and fraternity 
and sorority presidents to be more 
cautious and thus more willing to call 
EMS when they think a student may 
have a problem with alcohol.
Foster said that fraternities are of­
ten hesitant to call for help when a 
student has had too much to drink 
Please see RESLIFE, page 3
Students, faculty organize to free death-row inmate
iy BILL VANDERMARK
1artan Staffwriter 
& JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
A Pennsylvania death-row 
nmate’s case has inspired grass­
roots activism all over the world, 
md now his cause has been taken 
p at Carnegie Mellon.
Mumia Abu-Jamal was con­
victed in 1982 of murdering a 
’hiladelphia police officer, but 
as maintained his innocence 
¡ver since his arrest.
“I feel that Mumia, at the very 
least, got a shabby original trial
full of questionable legal proce­
dures,” says Dave Demarest, a 
professor in the English Depart­
ment who is on the steering com­
mittee of the Western Pennsyl­
vania Committee to Free Mumia 
Abu-Jamal.
Abu-Jamal is a former Black 
Panther, radio commentator, 
talk-show host, and community 
activist. He was president of the 
Philadelphia chapter of the Asso­
ciation of Black Journalists, and 
has been published in the Yale 
Law Review and The Nation.
He was an outspoken critic of 
the Philadelphia police and the
judicial system, says Claire 
Cohen, a child psychologist at the 
University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center, but he’s not a murderer.
“They hated this guy’s guts and 
they wanted to silence him,” says 
Cohen, who’s also working to get 
Abu-Jamal released. “What this 
case is really about is, can the 
political establishment silence a 
dissident through the use of the 
death penalty?” she says. “This is 
a guy who was never violent and 
who never was a criminal. The 
real issue is that they want to 
shut him up.
“If he is executed, it’s a power­
ful blow to our free right to cri­
tique our government,” says 
Cohen. “Can the political estab­
lishment silence dissent? Can 
they put a dissident to death? 
What we all need to do is say a 
resounding, ‘no.’ ”
Not everyone agrees. “Speak­
ing on behalf of myself and the 
Philadelphia Fraternal Order of 
Police, I feel that Mumia Abu- 
Jamal cold-bloodedly and brutally 
murdered Officer Daniel 
Faulkner in December of 1981,” 
says Rich Costello, a spokesper­
son for the Philadelphia FOP.
Only a few facts in the case are
not in dispute. What is known is 
that early on the morning of De­
cember 9, 1981, Faulkner, a Phila­
delphia police officer, was shot 
during a traffic stop.
Faulkner had pulled over a 
Volkswagen Beetle in a inner- 
city neighborhood for driving the 
wrong way down a one-way street. 
He radioed for backup before ar­
resting the Beetle’s driver, Will­
iam Cook.
Abu-Jamal was Cook’s brother. 
He was working as a cab driver 
on the night shift when he drove 
past the scene. He said later that 
he saw Faulkner beating Cook
with a flashlight.
When other officers arrived, 
they found Faulkner lying in the 
street, shot in the back and in the 
face. He would die a few hours, 
later at a local hospital. Abu- 
Jamal was a few feet away in a 
pool of his own blood. His licensed 
.38-caliber pistol was found 
nearby.
The prosecution maintained 
that Abu-Jamal had shot 
Faulkner in the back, the officer 
had returned fire, falling to the 
ground, and that Abu- Jamal then 
stood over Faulkner and shot him 
Please see MUMIA, page 5
Yard reopens with 
minor glitches
By HEATHER ZINDLE
Tartan Staffwriter
Scotland Yard finally reopened Friday, even if it 
was a few days late.
The Yard was scheduled to open on Wednesday, 
but Rick Zdan, a student manager, said it got the 
“short end of the stick with staffing and there were 
difficulties on the Dining Services end.”
The Yard is open every night from 8 pm to 2 am. 
Currently, hot food is only served until 10:30, but 
that will change soon, said Zdan.
According to waitress Roberta Rigano, the crowd 
was decent considering the opening date changed 
and there were no advertisements.
“People who came in were just walking by and 
saw the doors open,” said Rigano.
Courtney Fiore, a new waitress, agreed. “At first 
it seemed like a large amount of people for no one 
really knowing it was open,” said Fiore.
“The advertisements simply fell though the 
cracks,” said Zdan. “I was told it was being taken 
care of.” He ended up putting the posters up him­
self Saturday night.
There were other problems besides the advertise­
ment. . 7or example, there was a mix-up in the type 
of tortilla chips that were ordered, and cheese- 
flavored ones arrived instead.
Rigano said she warned everyone who ordered, 
and although she thought the idea was sort of 
gross, people ate them anyway.
Please see YARD, page 5
New retail area designed to solve problems
By YOSEF BIRNBOIM
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU may rank higher than the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh in U.S. News and 
World Report’s latest college rankings, 
but according to Oliver Schulte of the 
Graduate Student Organization (GSO), 
Pitt’s way out in front in a few areas.
“Pitt’s bookstore is way ahead of us in 
just about every way. I don’t know about 
their convenience stores. The new En­
tropy will probably be more attractive 
and better than anything they have,” 
said Schulte. “[But] Stanford, Harvard 
and MIT, for example, have whole build­
ings devoted to their bookstores.”
And even when the new University 
Center opens, he said, “We still won’t be 
close to what other major research insti­
tutions offer.”
Schulte believes that retail facilities 
at CMU are, on the whole, much too 
small for a major university, both in 
terms of their selection and the space 
they have available.
“[0]n the whole, I think [Retail Ser­
vices does] a pretty good job with the 
resources they have, but they don’t have 
enough,” said Schulte. “Their employees 
could be friendlier and more helpful, 
especially in the textbook store.”
Baker Hall has housed a university 
store since 1918, but will lose that dis­
please see RETAIL, page 3
courtesy Retail Services
Entropy will offer an expanded selection of prepared foods and staple items when the new University Center 
opens next year.
Inside
Calendar..................................................LI6
Classified..................................................L3
Comics.......................................................L5
Diversions.........-.......................................Lll
Living.........................................................LI
Forum..........................................................6Sports...............................................9
Diversions
Meet WRCT’s staff 
• see page Lll
Comics
Dilbert arrives at CMU 
• see page L5
Living
Take a leap of faith 
• see page LI

---------------------------------------------------

Volu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Page Z...
Budget squabble could 
shut down federal gov’t
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 22 (D J) 
— Despite the threat of a veto, House 
Speaker Newt Gingrich said he would 
work to send a bill to fund government 
spending past Oct. 1 to the White 
House.
However, Gingrich also reiterated 
his previous warnings that he won’t 
compromise on the Republican plan to 
balance the budget and reform wel­
fare and Medicare, and he’s willing to 
hold up passage of a new debt ceiling 
to do so.
“What I have said is that sometime 
in November we have to have [the 
budget bill] signed, because I will not 
schedule the debt ceiling until we get 
the agreement to balance the budget,” 
Gingrich said. He brushed aside con­
cerns that holding up legislation on 
raising the debt ceiling would have a 
catastrophic effect on the economy.
The debt ceiling is currently set at 
$4.9 trillion and the government will 
run out of borrowing authority around 
Nov. 15. Without new loans, the gov­
ernment would likely have to default 
on debt payments temporarily.
Although analysts have said this 
would be a recipe for disaster, Gingrich 
said, “What I have been told by two of 
the best [investors] in this country is 
that they absolutely think the highest 
value for the bond market is to get to 
a balanced budget.”
The continuing resolution proposed 
by Gingrich on Wednesday would have 
set spending at the lowest level envi­
sioned for 1996 by either the House or 
the Senate until Nov. 13. This formu­
lation was rejected by White House 
Chief of Staff Leon Panetta Thursday 
on the grounds the continuing resolu­
tion lasted too long and would incorpo­
rate many of the Republican spending 
proposals.
Gingrich accused the White House 
of risking a government shut down on 
Oct. 1. “They are risking federal em­
ployees being laid off. I don’t get it. 
They must have some fantasy political 
gimmick,” he said.
Hey, Mabel: Red, not black, 
labels win consumer trust
NEW YORK, Sept. 21 (DJ) — For­
get the macho image of the Marlboro 
man or the marketing that built Coca- 
Cola into an American classic.
Forget the taste of Campbell’s soup 
or the feel of Colgate toothpaste.
Those diverse top-selling brands 
have somethingin common—they’re 
all packaged in red.
Stroll through a supermarket and 
notice the endless consumer products 
with red packages or logos: Kellogg, 
Post, Nabisco, Dole, Del Monte, Lipton, 
Duncan Hines, Betty Crocker, Jell-O, 
Oscar Mayer, Carling Beer, Arm & 
Hammer, Band-Aid, Dentyne, 
Budweiser, Glad...it’s no coincidence.
“Red is warm and bright,” said John 
Steel, Colgate-Palmolive’s senior vice 
president for global marketing and 
sales. “It's not intimidating. Yellow is 
intimidating in packages. And red, of 
course, is the lifeblood.”
Colgate is the No. 1 toothpaste com­
pany in the world and is the fourth 
most recognized brand globally be­
hind Coke, Pepsi and Kodak, he said.
Packaging experts and color psy­
chologists say there is a close link 
between a product’s color and con­
sumer-buying preference. It’s the trait 
people remember first. Red is so closely 
associated with Coca-Cola Co. that 
sales would plummet if it dared to
change the color ofits cans, said Davis 
Masten, with Cheskin+Masten 
ImageNet, a San Francisco color-re- 
search firm.
Theories abound on why consumers 
are drawn to red. Some say red evokes 
feelings of warmth, passion and sen­
suality that prompt people to buy red 
items. Others say people eat more of­
ten in the presence of red.
The downside is that some people 
see red as dangerous, associating it 
with stop signs and police-car lights.
Masten’s firm has found that al­
though red remains a popular color, it 
is no longer America’s favorite, having 
given way to the more conservative 
and toned-down blue.
‘You wouldn’t want to walk into a 
cosmetics department and see Clinique 
in bright red,” said Seabeck, Wash., 
color consultant Leatrice Eiseman, 
referring to the cosmetic line’s pale 
green packaging. The color is “soft, 
feminine and hygienic. That’s defi­
nitely part of the message and the 
image.”
Stan Gross, president of Stan Gross 
Associates, a Haverford, Pa., consult­
ing firm, said people tend to link color 
to nature. For instance, red is linked 
to blood; blue to sky or ocean; brown to 
earth; green to vegetables; yellow to 
sunshine; and white to dairy products.
Bell Labs’ future role unclear
MURRAY HILL, N.J., Sept. 22 (DJ)— 
Visitors to AT&T Corp.’s sprawling Bell 
Laboratories can peer into the room 
where scientists invented the transistor 
five decades ago. The antiquated lab 
serves as a shrine to the building block of 
the computer industry.
But the historic facility faces an un­
certain future because of the breathtak­
ing plan AT&T announced Wednesday. 
It would split off two independent com­
panies devoted to phone equipment and 
computers, respectively, while the main 
company would continue in communica­
tions services.
Core areas of Bell Labs’ research are 
microelectronics, the foundation of com­
puter chips, and photonics, the key sci­
ence behind fiber-optic communications 
lines.
As part of its breakup plan, AT&T 
plans to split the famed research center 
in two — prompting many observers to 
fret that Bell Labs itself may soon be­
come a neglected relic of the golden age 
of corporate research.
The majority of Bell Labs’ 26,000 em­
ployees will be shifted to the new phone- 
equipment company, based on AT&T’s 
Network Systems division, and the Bell 
Labs name will survive. About 4,000 
will move to a new research unit in the 
downsized AT&T.
Observers say the phone-equipment 
company is likely to focus the research­
ers more tightly on work that could di­
rectly improve its products rather than 
advance general science.
Many big companies, such as IBM and 
Xerox, have slashed their research bud­
gets and reined in blue-sky scientific 
exploration to focus on products and 
profits. But Bell Labs is a special case, 
widely regarded as a national treasure. 
Fans of Bell Labs fear the new AT&T 
split-up could deal a final blow to its far- 
flung pursuits, relegating the world’s 
premiere research center to a product 
developer.
“It will have a devastating impact on 
science,” says Albert Link, an economics 
professor at the University of North 
Carolinain Greensboro. ‘This represents 
another diminution of the technological 
infrastructure of the country, especially 
when you put this in the context of the 
Republican research cuts.”
Canadian ad ban struck down
OTTAWA, Ont., Sept. 22 (DJ) — In a 
surprise ruling, the Canadian Supreme 
Court struck down Canada’s tough law 
on tobacco advertising and health warn­
ings.
The ruling was a setback for anti­
smoking groups in many countries, in­
cluding the U.S., which had held up the 
Canadian law as a model. The law was 
challenged by the Canadian tobacco in-
Four >Day Forecast
MondayPartly cloudy and 
mild. Slight chance 
of afternoon and 
evening showers. 
Evening lows in mld- 
40s.
TuesdayHigh pressure across 
area keeps temp­
eratures below 
normal. Variable 
cloudiness; high In 
mld-60s, low In 40s.
WednesdayPartly cloudy, 
showers likely. High 
in mid to upper 60s, 
low In the 40s.
Thursday
Mostly cloudy. High 
In mid to upper 60s, 
low in mid 40s.
Carnegie Almanac
Great Race passes CMU...
W
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
Runners in The Richard S. Caliguiri Great Race pass the two-mile mark near the 
corner of Forbes and Morewood Avenues yesterday morning. Stephen Nymanu of 
Kenya was the winner on the men’s side, and Colette Murphy of Indianapolis, Ind. 
won the top prize in the women's category.
dustry, which claimed the advertising 
ban violated its constitutional right to 
free expression.
The Canadian Tobacco Manufactur­
ers’ Council, which represents Cana­
dian tobacco companies, said the indus­
try will continue to adhere to the adver­
tising ban “for a reasonablelimit of time” 
until it can reach an agreement with the 
government on mutually acceptable 
regulations.
The law, known as the Tobacco Prod­
ucts Control Act, bans most forms of 
tobacco advertising and promotion, in­
cluding print and billboard advertising. 
It prohibits the use of cigarette trade­
marks on promotional items, and it re­
quires tobacco companies to place big, 
bold health warnings on their cigarette 
packages. The Canadian tobacco indus­
try voluntarily stopped television and 
radio advertising in 1972.
The Supreme Court, in a 5-4 decision, 
ruled that the ban on tobacco advertis­
ing was an unjustifiable limit on the 
industry’s right to free speech. It said 
the Canadian government hadn’t pro­
vided sufficient evidence that advertis­
ing bans lead to a decrease in smoking.
The court left some room for less strin­
gent advertising restrictions, particu­
larly a ban on “lifestyle advertising” and 
ads aimed at children. The court also 
ruled that the federal government could 
insist that cigarette packages include 
health warnings.
GM employees protest “rat line”
OSHAWA, Ont., Sept. 21 (DJ) — Ca­
nadian auto workers staged a protest at 
General Motors of Canada Ltd.’s head 
office here, upset by a new phone line the
company set up for employees to report, 
wrong-doing by other employees.
The company recently sent a letter to ’ 
all employees, urging them to anony- , 
mously report substance abuse and other ^ 
violations of company policy by calling ' 
an toll-free number called “Awareline.”
About 100 workers burned the letters 
in a trash can outside GM’s offices.
In a letter to its members, a Canadian 
Auto Workers union local said it is “thor-, 
oughly outraged” by the “rat line,” and 
called it a “despicable and unnecessary 
attack on the privacy of GM employees.”
A GM spokesman said the union mis­
understands the intention of Awareline. 
He said “the lines of communication 
have always been there,” for employees 
to discuss problems with management, 
and Awareline offers a way for employ­
ees to voice any concerns without endan­
gering themselves.
Mellon MAC thief caught in Europe
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 21 (DJ)------A
Mellon Bank employee accused of steal­
ing $1.2 million from the bank’s auto­
matic teller machines was captured late 
today in the Netherlands.
SeanEllardHitchman, 27, ofDormont, 
an ATM balancing representative at 
Mellon, is in a Dutch jail in Amsterdam 
awaiting extradition to the United 
States. He was charged with violating 
the federal bank embezzlement statute.
His duties at Mellon included refilling 
the banks’ MAC machines from the cash 
supply maintained in machines. He al­
legedly stole the money on Sept. 14 and 
15. The FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s 
office said that more than $700,000 of 
the stolen money had been recovered.
FIFTY YEARS AGO, October 
9, 1945: “Gone Are the Publica­
tion Offices from Industries Hall!” 
crowed The Carnegie Tartan. 
“Gone is the staff! Gone the di­
lapidated typewriters!”
Carnegie Tech’s student publi­
cations, includingThe Tartan, the 
Scottie (a humor magazine), the 
Technical (a literary magazine), 
and The Thistle yearbook, had 
moved from a cramped office in 
what is now Baker Hall to the 
long-gone Carnegie Union on 
Forbes Avenue.
The publications had been 
housed in the Union before the 
war. While the newspaper doesn’t 
say why they were displaced, but 
one suspects that the old office 
was taken over for military work 
or as temporary housing.
“Other than the building ... 
everything remains the same,” 
the newspaper continued, “the
typewriters mentioned in para­
graph one, the paper, the flies, 
the same dictionaries, the same 
people ... but still no waste bas­
ket!”
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS 
AGO, September 24,1970: H&SS 
still hadn’t decided what method 
of grading to use for the sopho­
more class, reported The Tartan.
“During the spring semester, 
the freshmen were asked to fill 
out questionnaires concerning 
their preferences for the grading 
system to be implemented,” wrote 
staffwriter Sherry Sokol. A ma- 
j ority of students preferred a pass/ 
fail system.
But no decision had been made 
over the summer. “It seems that 
at the end of last semester, all 
discussions were tabled because 
of general chaos within the com­
munity,” she wrote.
TEN YEARS AGO, Septem­
ber 24, 1985: Carnegie-Mellon 
announced that it had purchased 
the six-building U.S. Bureau of 
Mines complex on Forbes Avenue 
for $5.8 million.
The only problem was that the 
buildings were in terrible shape.
“The U.S. Government is ex­
empt from building codes and 
inspections,” said Fred Rogers, 
vice president for business af­
fairs. “There is not even a cen­
tralized fire alarm. They have 
hand-held horns that are sup­
posed to alert the entire building 
of a fire.”
The purchase was the largest 
expansion of the University in 10 
years and alleviated a severe 
space crunch on campus. And 
with the purchase came 200 park­
ing spaces.
Rogers hoped that C-MU would 
purchase the Naval Reserve Cen­
ter next door “within the next 10- 
15 years.”
FIVE YEARS AGO, Septem­
ber 24, 1990: The Allegheny 
County Health Department made 
an unscheduled visit to the kitch­
ens of CMU’s fraternity houses.
While the ACHD found no ma­
jor violations, it presented the 
University with a list of improve­
ments that were needed. Among 
them were repairs to some kitch­
ens, new hand-washing sinks, 
and new dish sanitizers. The 
ACHD also said it would be con­
ducting inspections twice yearly.
PiLam president Gary 
McMaster said he was glad that 
the ACHD would be conducting 
periodic inspections. He hoped it 
would help “make the school 
maintain the equipment.”
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
The Tartan will celebrate its 
90th anniversary in 1996. The 
theme for the celebration is “90 
years of excellence in print.” 
Here's the paper’s 1949 flag.
Freshmen— 
VVeor Kour 
Dinks'.Txmmx N
Campus News from 
10 Years Ago— 
Page 2
vor.. 13—Nu. 2CAltN'KÜlE INSTITUTE OF TKCUXOf.Oti V. ITI TSHClKiH. I»A.Tl'ESDAY, SEPTEMBER *JD. llWU

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddUN
'esLife: No 
Mange in 
folicy
¡ESLIFE, from page 1
¡cause they fear getting their house 
trouble.
| '‘It is the individual, not the house, 
(at we need to be concerned about,” 
[aid Foster.
Jamie Mason, operations manager 
¡of EMS, said he has received calls in 
4he past where a student asked what 
?fyas going to happen to them before 
Reporting the extent of their or a 
friend’s condition.
| “I think I speak for all of EMS when 
| say we don’t want to respond to calls 
ke the one we had to last year,” said 
tfason, referring to the death of Jus- 
in Chambers, a student who died of 
lcohol poisoning at Pi Lambda Phi. 
We are encouraging students to call3, no matter what the repercussions.” 
EMS, for the first time, was also 
irectly involved with Orientation, ex- 
laining the dangers of alcohol abuse 
jo freshmen and encouraging them to 
.11, if only as a safety measure.
| “I don’t know where people got the 
idea of us being able to issue citations
— only Campus Police and Student 
?airs can do that,” said Chip Welch, 
[resident of EMS. “We hope students 
lon’t hesitate to call us because noth- 
ig in the alcohol policy has changed.”
TOC brings students, companies together
TOC, from page 1
based knowledge than I have.”
It’s a homecoming of sorts for some 
recruiters, as CMU grads come back to 
meet current students.
“There’s so many alumni here recruit­
ing for their companies,” said Murphy.
Glenn Brooks, a corporate recruiter 
for Fore Systems, a Warrendale firm 
specializing in computer networking, 
agreed. He said that the company re­
cruits heavily at the University. “Espe­
cially with us being in Pittsburgh, it’s 
very important to us. CMU’s been good 
to us, and we try to give something back 
to them,” said Brooks.
Jeffrey Holst of Pittsburgh-based 
Bayer USA said that he had interviewed 
over 100 students by 3:30 pm. “This is, 
in my opinion, the best technically-ori­
ented career fair in the country,” Holst 
said. “[The organizers] do a very nice 
job. The quality of the students is consis­
tently high. CMU is an important school 
for us.”
“Judging by the quality of the resumes 
I’ve seen, I’m impressed with the level of 
talent here,” said Zachary Cohen of 
Bloomberg Business News.
. But if students use the TOC to intro­
duce themselves to companies, then the 
companies also use it to introduce them­
selves to students.
“First, it brings students to us and 
gives us something to work with,” Cohen 
said. “Second, it gets our name outthere. 
Most college students don’t know who
Bloomberg is or what it does.”
Fore Systems’ Brooks said that recent 
articles in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
and the Tribune-Review has raised local 
awareness of his company, but that ca­
reer fairs like the TOC helped.
“If they don’t recognize us inside Pitts­
burgh, it’s almost embarrassing for 
them,” said Brooks. “Nationally, we’re 
picking up a little more. We’re getting 
more and more national publicity.” 
Brooks said that Fore is growing by 
leaps and bounds — the company has 
gone from 330 employees in 1994 to 525 
employees today, and plans to have 800 
people on staff by the end of next March.
Bayer USA, the American unit of Ger­
man conglomerate Bayer AG, is one com­
pany whose name recognition among 
students has increased dramatically 
since last year. Until a few months ago, 
it was called Miles Laboratories, and 
before that, Mobay Chemical. It makes 
everything from Agfa film to pharma­
ceuticals.
Holst said that the name-change has 
made recruiting easier.
“The Mobay name you knew if you 
were from Pittsburgh, or in plastics,” he 
said. “But Bayer everyone knows from 
consumer products. And it’s the name 
we use worldwide. [The name change] 
was expensive, but it was well worth it.” 
Even giant Westinghouse Electric uses 
the TOC to increase and improve its 
name recognition, said recruiter Chris 
Kirby, from WE’s Science and Technol­
ogy Center. “People still think we make 
dishwashers and washing machines,” 
he said.
Chemical engineers weren’t needed 
at the WE booth, which was looking for 
computer science majors for its Informa­
tion Technology (IT) unit.
“We desperately need more people,” 
said Kirby. “People just don’t think of 
computer science when they think of 
Westinghouse. We’re sort of slapping 
them on the head and saying, 
‘Westinghouse does this, too.’”
The company is working hard to cap­
ture part of what Kirby called “a very 
wide market.” The IT unit can be mar­
keted to the company’s clients in defense 
systems and manufacturing.
Kirby said that Westinghouse’s soft­
ware and operating systems may even 
have a role in the company’s purchase of 
CBS with a system called a “video server.” 
It enables television networks to target 
certain areas with programs and com­
mercials tailored to their needs.
“It’s not good enough to show a Coca- 
Cola commercial,” he said. “There might 
be a Pittsburgh Coca-Cola commercial 
and an Atlanta Coca-Cola- commercial, 
and they get angry if you show the wrong 
one.”
Holst said that many graduates are 
finding jobs with companies they in­
terned with as students. He encouraged 
students to look for internships with 
companies they would like to work with 
after they graduate.
“We call it our ‘three-month inter­
view,’ ” said Holst. “That way, you really 
get to know each other.”
Reputation is important when she 
looks at companies at the TOC, said 
Schwarha, who said she prefers work­
ing for large corporations rather than 
small companies.
“With larger corporations, you have a 
variety of places to go [within the com­
pany],” she said. “Smaller companies 
just don’t have as good a structure in 
place at that moment. When you’re just 
starting out, you have to place yourself 
strategically in the market.”
Not everyone at the TOC had a techni­
cal background. “I’m in industrial de­
sign,” said sophomore Zuleikha Spen­
cer. “I got this message on my email 
saying that there was this design firm 
here I should talk to.”.
Spencer saidthat she wasn’t even plan­
ning to go. “I assumed it was mostly for 
computer science people and engineers,” 
she said.
And in very scientific fashion, Edward 
Scannel of the Heinz School was se­
lected as the winner of the Fore Systems 
Mountain Bike Raffle.
“The winning entry was selected by 
randomly scattering all submitted 
resumes on my family room floor, and 
then letting my 9-month-old daughter, 
Lindsay, select the winner,” said Brooks. 
“The first one she picked-up and threat­
ened to eat was deemed the winner. 
Science is good.”
lew retail areas designed to ease current space, stock shortages
I RETAIL, from page 1
I tinction altogether when the Uni­
versity Center is completed. En- 
jfropy, the Art Store, the Text­
book Store, and the University 
Shoppe will be housed in a new, 
•0-level retail center in the new 
fuHding. The center will be ac- 
issible from both inside and out. 
Retail Services Manager 
itricia Stacer said the new fa- 
iities will occupy over 10,082 
[uare feet, an increase of about 
28 percent over the current com-
ied areas.
tacer said she’s “eager to move 
The new facility is “providing 
| the opportunity to expand,” she 
said. “Books, art supplies, and 
[¡engineering products [will all be]
I in a world class facility.”
¦Of particular concern to gradu­
ate students, said Schulte, is the 
['selection in the bookstore. - 
¦“GSO released a report a couple 
of years ago on the bookstore, 
phere we showed, for example, 
j how much the space and the stock 
g below the recommendations of 
the National College Bookstore 
isociation,” said Schulte.
Ichulte said that the bookstore 
ould be expanded to offer at 
east a small collection of contem- 
|rary fiction and other non-aca­
demic releases, like the books on 
The New York Times’ bestseller 
list.
“CMU should have a bookstore 
which offers a solid collection of 
standard reference texts across 
the academic disciplines,” he said. 
“We are an academic institution! 
We should be at least as well 
stocked as Pitt, and in fact our 
stock is much worse.”
Stacer said the upper level of 
the new retail center, located on 
the first floor of the new building, 
will have trade books—mystery, 
fiction, non-fiction, and humor— 
as well as books authored or co­
authored by faculty, clothing and 
memorabilia, and a customer ser­
vice desk.
In order to create a nicer atmo­
sphere, there will be chairs and 
tables-— ala Barnes and Noble— 
so that patrons can browse 
through a book before they buy it.
Below, in the lower level, will 
be office and school supplies, text­
books, greeting cards, and “home” 
items like padlocks and VCR 
tapes.
A mural is being commissioned 
for the lower level, said Stacer, 
and hopefully will be done by a 
CMU student. The art store will 
be adjacent to this level.
“The book selection will be ex­
panded, and the bookstore will 
hopefully be a place where you 
will actually want to browse,” said 
Schulte. “The design of the check­
out lines looks quite efficient.”
But there’s still not enough, he 
said. “We would like to see more 
emphasis on academic references; 
too much attention seems to be 
paid to popular retail items that 
are more likely to bring in money 
to the University, rather than 
contribute towards CMU’s aca­
demic mission,” said Schulte.
Stacer said that Retail Services 
isn’t designed to make money for 
the University. In addition to 
Entropy, the bookstores, and the 
University Shoppe, Retail Ser­
vices is also in charge of the Co-op 
Store and the Cleaners/Laundry.
“Retail Services receives no 
support from the University,” said 
Stacer, and the department is 
responsible for covering all oper­
ating costs. “The net income last 
year was less than two percent, 
after a year of approximately five 
million dollars in sales,” she said.
The present Entropy is another 
area of Retail Services that is 
lacking, said Schulte. “We think 
Entropy is too small and too ex­
pensive,” he said. “Given how far
away the University’s dorms are 
from the next grocery store, it 
should offer more for people who 
want to make some small meals,” 
instead of offering only pre-pack­
aged food.
“It would be great if you could 
get good coffee or cappuccino 
there, too,” he added.
“Entropy is like a convenience 
store, not a supermarket,” said 
Stacer. “Prices are comparable to 
other convenience stores. 
Changes constantly occur based 
on comments and suggestions 
from students.”
The new Entropy should be a
vast improvement, said Schulte. 
“The changes will all be for the 
better, as far we can tell. Entropy 
will look much more attractive, 
and offer fruits and vegetables, I 
believe, as well as a cappuccino 
dispenser,” he said.
The presence of the University 
Center is not the only change 
that may be coming to Retail Ser­
vices. While Entropy will keep its 
name, Stacer said that a contest 
will be held to name the other 
stores.
Also scheduled to change in the 
coming year are the laundry fa­
cilities. A committee is investi-
gating the use of ID cards for 
washing machines and dryers. 
The upgrade could be imple­
mented next year.
“The University Center still has 
a lot of unallocated space in the 
unfinished basement,” said 
Schulte. “We think it would make 
sense to consider this space for 
expanding retail services.”
Student Senate’s Academic Af­
fairs Committee is planning to 
look into pricing at the campus 
bookstore, but committee chair 
Bill Boyle said that he was re­
serving comment until after the 
study was complete.
THRILLING!”“THE SEXIEST, MOST THRILLING MUSICAL ON BROADWAY!”
\ - David Richards, THE NEW YORK TIMES
KISS
Of THE SPIDER
worfln
THE MUSICAL.
;\w„ ¡S I MW 
* s?y* i * % %
lW^AÎM\\CvHi SEPTEMBER 20-0CT0BER1,1995 BROADWAY I IENEDUM CENTER
LIMITED ENGAGEMENT
Qflirlpnf Rlichl Come t0 the Benedum Center Box Office 2 hours wiuuciii “T“H““E before the performance and purchase selected 
seating for just $20 per ticket.
Tickets also at Benedun) Center Box Office and ¦^.asnsa. Groups of 20 or more, call 471-6930.
EDWPXI <2? Charge by Phone: 456-6666
tw0pac16 a20p4 r5 4bnL o4TEu9i iD’1uT9 9r mtta4Tm’au iueg4TuGlm0Aa40s Tlmesu6 <m9u?i2 iD’1uT9 9r Tlm0su h49lrD9 0r94Tu6 
P:T9e4Ana:10 Reuiu09uA ’M R499i’Desl vMytlr0M vrT4u9M6 R499i’Desl6IDa9Dema oeDi9 m0A ROI" olum9e4Tma &erDt6
I’ R INCI 1» I. K S of SOI N 1) R K I I K I! M K X T I X Y K SII X (,
BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE 
TO ANY COMPANY, ASK FOR 
SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE.
8
ou put more than just your savings into 
a retirement company. You put in 
your trust and hopes for the future, too. So 
before you choose one, ask some questions. 
How stable is the company? How solid are 
its investments? How sound is its overall 
financial health?
A good place to start looking for answers 
is in the ratings of independent analysts. 
Four companies, all widely recognized 
resources for finding out how strong a 
financial services company really is, gave 
TIAA their top grade.
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA 
IS LETTER PERFECT.
TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. 
Best Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit 
Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors 
Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. 
These ratings reflect TIAA's stability, sound 
investments, claims-paying ability and over­
all financial strength. (These are ratings of
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it6US
•Not all accounts arc available under the basic retirement plans at all institutions. They arc, however, all available for TIAA-CREF Supplemental 
Retirement Annuities (SRAs). CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services.
insurance companies only, so they do not 
apply to CREF.)
And TIAA-which, backed by the company’s 
claims-paying ability, offers a guaranteed rate 
of return and the opportunity for dividends—is 
one of a handful of insurance companies nation­
wide that currently hold these highest marks.
CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS 
EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW.
For further growth potential and diversi­
fication, there’s the CREF variable annuity, 
with seven different investment accounts to 
give you the flexibility you want as you save 
for the future*
Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's 
largest private retirement system based 
on assets under management, with over 
$145 billion in assets and more than 75 
years of experience serving the education 
community. For over a million and a half 
people nationwide, the only letters to 
remember are TIAA-CREF.

---------------------------------------------------

Bel Labsb’fbu Lb’lu’ftr
ounlaclu
Cbucdr’fui
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C.
Where we go from here“
It was just a summer job. 
Now it's the rest of your life.
Remember when your biggest career concern was 
running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to 
handle any summer job because it was just a summer 
job?
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will 
challenge you every day and offer a variety of 
responsibilities. You want to work where the learning 
curve doesn't flatten out after a couple of years.
Theirs. Ours.
Why gamble with your career? Work with the world’s largest supplier of software for information management and you’ll work where the 
opportunities match your abilities. At Oracle, you can choose your game. Here, we give you the resources you need to excel.. .and the challenges 
you need to grow. Join the dynamic company that gives professionals the power to move up, over and into winning positions. For sure. 
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer • Technical Analyst • Consultant • Product Manager 
Learn more about Oracle at our INFORMATION SESSION on October 24. Refreshments provided.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: jobs@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991 
For additional information, visit our web site at: http://www.oracle.com/info/hr/recruiting.html. Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
fBOIk"
Enabling the Information Age
At Andersen Consulting, our 
challenges change daily, like 
the world in which we work.
Our job is to help clients do 
what they do. Only better.
Come talk to us about a career 
with Andersen Consulting.
Navigating Through the Job Search Jungle
Let Andersen Consulting help you navigate through the job search jungle by helping you "Pick the 
paths...", "Climb the tree...", "Sound the drums...", "Face the cannibals...", and "Score the hunt...". We 
also invite you to register for the Zenith data systems z-player cd-rom door prize.
Come join us on October 3rd on the Drill Deck in the Student Center (old Navy Bldg.) from 9:30 a.m. - 
4:30 p.m. We will help guide you through the "Job Search Jungle."
Anderson Consulting is an equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddUU
Death-row inmate attracting attention at CMU, worldwide
MUMIA, from page 1
in the face. But the evidence presented 
by the prosecution is in question today. 
Two eyewitnesses identified Abu-Jamal 
as the gunman, but one was a prostitute 
with charges pending against her and 
ithe other was on probation for a felony 
irson conviction.
Both allegedly received deals for their 
¡ooperation with the police.
The ballistic evidence offered was also 
Controversial. Faulkner’s wounds were 
frot consistent with the prosecution’s 
Scenario. More importantly, the medical 
examiner concluded that the fatal head 
wound came from a .44 — not a .38.
There were police procedural mistakes, 
too. Apparently, no one checked to see if 
Abu-Jamal had fired his pistol — pur­
chased after he had been robbed twice 
while on the job — that night.
More importantly, the officer who trav­
eled with him from the crime scene to 
I the hospital’s trauma ward wrote in his 
/ report that Abu-Jamal made no state­
ment. But two officers in the emergency 
room claimed at the trial that Abu-Jamal 
had defiantly and loudly confessed to 
the crime.
Cohen claims that the discrepancy 
shows that the Philadelphia Police 
changed their story later to make the 
case appear stronger.
Cook never testified in his brother’s 
defense. Abu-Jamal couldn’t afford a 
[;j lawyer and asked to represent himself,
¦ but Common Please Court Judge Albert
Sabo complained that Abu-Jamal’s ex­
amination of the witnesses was taking 
I too long and replaced him with a public 
defender. Abu-Jamal protested and Sabo 
eventually had him removed from the 
courtroom for large portions of his own 
; trial.
And four witnesses who were never 
called to testify claimed that they saw a 
heavy-set man — a passenger in Cook’s 
Volkswagen — running from the scene. 
Police apparently never attempted to 
find an alternative suspect.
“The witnesses’ testimony did not origi­
nally implicate Mumia but one of the 
passengers,” says Cohen.
Abu-Jamal was convicted of first-de­
gree murder, sentenced to death, and 
sent to prison to await his execution. 
While there, he published a collection of 
essays entitled “Live on Death Row,” 
which brought new attention to his case.
But his supporters began racing the 
clock to earn his release when Governor 
Tom Ridge took office with a pledge to 
execute more death-row inmates.
Ridge signed Abu-Jamal’s death war­
rant, and his execution was scheduled 
for August 17,1995.
That order was stayed by the governor 
as Abu-Jamal continues to appeal his 
conviction. Ridge’s office did not imme­
diately return calls seeking comment.
Abu-Jamal asked for a new trial this 
summer, saying that he was framed, but 
his request was rejected last Friday by 
Sabo, the same judge who presided over 
the original trial.
Jamil a Levi, a member of the local 
group and one of the paralegals working 
on the case, calls Sabo’s refusal to grant 
the new trial “totally expected.”
“We weren’t at all surprised that Judge 
Sabo turned it down,” she says, “al­
though we thought it might take longer 
to come down with the ruling.”
Because Abu-Jamal was seeking a 
post-conviction release, said Gina R. 
Furia, Sabo’s law clerk, he had the bur­
den of proving his innocence. “Mumia 
failed to prove any claim, either by pre­
senting no evidence or no credible evi­
dence,” says Furia.
One witness who was expected to tes­
tify—but failed to appear—is Cook. He 
has never publicly said what happened 
that night, 14 years ago.
Abu-Jamal has never testified on his 
own behalf, but Demarest says that he 
did make a statement at his sentencing 
in 1982, and that Sabo allowed the pros­
ecution to cross-examine him, a move 
Demarest described as “unusual.”
Levi says that the defense team has 30 
days to file an appeal in State Supreme 
Court.
“The stay that Governor Ridge granted 
has absolutely nothing to do with the 
fact that there may be reasonable doubt 
in Mumia’s case,” says Costello of the 
FOP. “The stay was granted for one 
reason and one reason only: According 
to Pennsylvania state law, once a death 
warrant is signed, it must either be 
carried out on [the specified] day, or a 
stay must be signed.”
Costello considers it “the worst abuse 
of criminal justice” that the execution 
was postponed.
“[Abu-Jamal] was found guilty of the 
murder of a Philadelphia police officer,” 
he says. “Nothing has changed, and I 
expect that the sentence handed down 
will be the one carried out.”
The case has attracted people from all 
walks of life, says Crystal Bartolovich, 
associate professor of literary and cul­
tural studies, and a member of the West­
ern Pennsylvania Committee. She says 
involvement comes on one of three lev­
els.
“There are those that are against capi­
tal punishment, period,” she says. “Then 
secondly, there are those who are look­
ing at the racism aspect of the case and
how disproportional the statistics are 
for death row prisoners. Third, there are 
those who are involved for the particu­
lars of the Mumia case, itself.
“I, myself, feel that the larger issues 
are what’s most important here. I think 
that they are more important than this 
particular case. I want to use my in­
volvement in the Mumia case to galva­
nize action towards the larger issues 
involved.”
Ed Fruit, another local Abu-Jamal 
supporter and a member of the Socialist 
Workers’ Party, feels that the case is 
typical of the abuses of the American 
legal system.
“This is just an extreme example of 
how we arbitrarily decide who’s going to 
get the death penalty and who’s not,” 
said Fruit. ‘It’s an indictment of the 
justice system.”
Costello of the FOP claims that some 
of Abu-Jamal’s supporters are “out of 
control.”
“All summer long I have been speak­
ing with people from all over the world, 
some attached to the media and other 
interested parties,” he says. “And, the 
farther away one got from Philadelphia, 
the less people were concerned with the 
truth. No one seemed to care that there 
were facts in the case. Most of them, by 
virtue of ignorance, came to a position 
that was set in concrete.
“Every one of them was screaming, 
‘Innocent!,’ but what was most frighten­
ing and chilling is the danger of making 
snap decisions where truth isn’t allowed 
to interfere. These decisions are based 
on rumor, not fact. We live in a society 
today where quick is beginning to be­
come a replacement for right. That’s 
what I consider to be the true travesty of 
the case,” says Costello.
“This is a very engagingissue and very 
politically significant,” says Demarest. 
“It attracts a broad range of people, but 
they all see a common connection with 
other people who come together to work 
for this kind of cause.
Demarest is in the process of bringing 
Abu-Jamal’s attorney, Leonard 
Weinglass, to speak to students. He says 
that he’s seen a lot of interest in the case 
at CMU.
“We ran a table at the activities fair, 
and we received about 75 email addresses 
of students that were very interested in 
being kept up to date,” he says.
Levi calls the group a “non-partisan, 
independent committee.
“The overall goal is to put pressure on 
the system to release Mumia by any 
means necessary,” says Levi. “Our sole 
purpose is to raise awareness of issues 
around Mumia.”
“I think that the students should have 
the opportunity to organize around po 
litical issues,” says Bartolovich. “If there 
is an interest for this particular case, 
then I think that they should rally around 
that.”
“I think that although CMU is a busy 
campus and political issues usually are 
forgotten, this is a very good case to 
concentrate on to see the common con­
nection with people who come together 
to work for this kind of cause,” says 
Demarest.
The Western Pennsylvania Committee 
to Free Mumia Abu-Jamal may be 
reached at 361-2889. It meets Wednes­
day evenings at 7:00 pm at the East 
Liberty Presbyterian Church.
Information on CMU activities can be 
obtained by emailing Professor Dave 
Demarest at dd01@andrew.cmu.edu.
Crime and Incident Report
9/9 EXTREME INTOXICA­
TION, 1:47 am. Campus police 
responded to reports of an intoxi­
cated person in the courtyard of 
Margaret Morrison Apartments. 
They found the individual disori­
ented and covered with vomit. He 
jhad consumed three or four beers, 
and most of a bottle of hard li­
quor. He was transported by city 
ambulance to Presbyterian-Uni- 
versity Hospital.
9/9 BED INJURY, 4:57 am. 
Officers responded to a frater­
nity house where they found a 
girl with a laceration on her fore­
head. The residents stated she 
slipped while getting into the top 
bunk, and fell, hitting her head. 
She was transported to Presbyte- 
rian-University Hospital.
9/9 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF, 
5:54 pm. Three large, highly in­
toxicated males broke down a fra­
ternity house’s front door, and 
pushed their way into the base­
ment, where they ripped up a 
cardboard prop used during rush. 
They then left, shouting.
9/9 THEFT, 9:05 pm. At the 
CMU-Allegheny football game, an 
officer observed a man jumping 
over the fence on the west side of 
the football field, carrying a new 
football. As the suspect pushed 
his way through, the officer 
grabbed him by the shirt. The 
suspect dropped the ball, and slid 
out of his shirt, saying he had 
been injured. He then sprinted 
towards Forbes Avenue, where 
the officer lost sight of him. The 
football belonged to the Allegh­
eny team.
9/10 INTOXICATION, 4:57 
am. Campus police received a 
report of an intoxicated male in 
Morewood Gardens E-Tower. 
They found the person in his room, 
conscious and alert. The police 
decided it would be safe for him to
remain in his room for the night, 
and his roommate and RA agreed 
to monitor him. He had had three 
beers.
9/10 ACCIDENT, 11:29 pm. A
karate student dislocated his 
shoulder while trying to throw a 
punch. He was transported to 
Presbyterian-University Hospi­
tal.
9/11 VANDALISM, 10:03 am. 
An officer was dispatched to the 
Children’s School in Margaret 
Morrison Hall to investigate van­
dalism. Someone had broken the 
gate, damaged the playhouse, and 
filled the sandbox with bricks. 
Several such incidents have oc­
curred at the school during the 
last year.
9/12 PUBLIC LEWDNESS, 
4:45 pm. A student called Cam­
pus Police to report a man mas­
turbating in his car on Frew 
Street. She reported his car “was 
a full size model and white.”
Unable to find anyone on Frew 
Street, the officers then spoke 
with the female. She stated that 
the suspect had asked her how to 
get to Craig Street. When she 
realized he was naked from the 
waist down she rolled up her win­
dow and wouldn’t give him direc­
tions, so he got in his car and 
drove down Frew Street towards 
Oakland.
She then described his car as 
full size, American and blue.
9/15 SUSPICIOUS ACTIV­
ITY, 3:42 pm. An officer observer 
a man leave Posner Hall and 
switch something on the bike 
rack. The man had no identifica­
tion other than a Fluted Mush­
room pay check. He stated that 
he had unlocked his bike, and 
was using it to leave the area.
A check of Fluted Mushroom 
by the officer verified his story 
and ownership of the bike. He
was then told that the cable-type 
lock he was using was ineffective.
9/17 SEVERED FINGER, 
11:42 am. An officer was dis­
patched to Doherty Hall to at­
tend to a reported severed finger. 
The officer transported the vic­
tim to Presbyterian-University 
Hospital. The victim was cutting 
cardboard with a razor blade and 
ruler when he severed his finger 
tip.
9/18 BATHTUB INJURY,
6:00 pm. An officer and a CMU 
EMS volunteer responded to a 
medical call in Marybelle Apart­
ments, where they found a stu­
dent sitting on her couch. The 
victim stated that she woke up 
from a nap and went into the 
bathroom, where she became 
dizzy and passed out. She had cut 
her lip on the bathtub in her fall, 
and after examination by the 
EMS volunteer, she was taken to 
Presbyterian-University Hospi­
tal.
The Tartan prints the Crime 
and Incident Report under the 
following guidelines:
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief, theNews Editor, and 
the staffwriter who types the re­
port.
• All personal names of 
complaintants, victims, and sus­
pects and fraternity names are 
omitted from the printed report. 
Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details are given only in 
the context of a complete descrip­
tion.
• Not every incident on campus 
appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKI
Yard returns with slimmer menu
YARD, from page 1
The menu has been reduced now that The 
Comer Oven across the hall is closed. The Yard 
no longer serves french-bread pizza and other 
items.
But besides nachos, the menu includes hot 
dogs, baked pretzels, cheese sticks, and a veg­
etable plate. The Greek food, such as hummus 
and pitas, are still on the menu as well.
The much loved desserts — chocolate death 
cake, brownies, and cinnamon rolls — all re­
turned. The selection of gourmet brewed coffees
is also back for a second year.
Rigano said many people were just happy to 
know that the desserts had stayed the same.
The biggest complaint was the lack of hot food 
after 10:30 pm. Zdan said there will definitely be 
hot food until midnight within a couple of weeks. 
Right now there are problems with sharedkitchen 
space, which has to be resolved with Dining 
Services.
Zdan also sees expansion in the future. “Right 
now, we just wanted to get Scotland Yard up and 
running,” he said.
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, please contact Tartan 
Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 268-2111.
Tired ofAmerican HeartthrowingAssociations,!^^F. .. FG g - .. .Jimx
vour weieht
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke
around?Exercise.
help wanted.
LOCAL ON-LINE SERVICE
wants lonely guy t.o download 
nude gifs from WWW sites. 
Mountain Dew, Clark bars 
supplied. Near campus at 
corner Walnut and Fifth, I 
McKeesport. Mon-Sat 11-6^ 
Sun 1-5. Phone 412-55q 
8030,
COMMODORE VIC- 
REPAIR needs programr 
Must know Print, 
commands, etc. Ca! 
2562.
PAINTER NEEDED. A|
Sistine Chapel, Rome 
555-2824.
FLUTE TUTOR WANTEI
tutoring tutors to toot. Pr 
home in West Homesti 
Call 555-2562.
DOG SITTER WANTED fo^
reading bedtime stories to1 
poodle. Whitaker. Dr. Seuss, 
Sesame Street, Lassie 
preferred. 555-9198.
EARN $$$$ AT HOME writing 
chain letters. Must have
HEATHY STUDENTS WAf 
EDyro participate in semester-’' 
iQfg project. Must be willing to 
Dend 1-4 hrs. perwk. meeting 
^new people, becoming a better 
writer, and gaining prof. exp. 
while working for an award- 
winning student newspaper.
Participants will receive 
valuable benefits—like seeing 
their name in print I 
For more information, please 
contact Tartan News Editor Dr. 
Jason Togyer (BS in B.S.) or 
Assistant News Editor Dr. 
Sameer Karim (doctor of funk) 
at The Tartan, room 104, 
Student Center (268-2111).
Participants may be asked to 
provide a type specimen or a 
scrawl sample.
Warning: Possible side effects 
include a bulging clip file, a 
padded resume, or lost shyness. 
If enumeration persists, consult 
a musician.
THE TARTAi
TheTartan is partially funded byjfre 
.Student Activities Fee.
Inteh^^cces^^iirtfrSASE to: 
MAKE MfiNEV FAST. P.O. Box 
12, Port Vue, Pa.
SPRING BREAK ‘96 - Now is
the time to start partying! Apply 
:red and Ted’s apartment. S. 
lakland.
DllCKLING WANTED FOR 
YEfcOW JOURNALISM.
Prewpus experience required.
BUFf», PLEASE COME HOME. 
Ail is fcrgiven. The cigars don't 
both* me anymore, but don’t 
throvlthe butts In the fish tank.
TlMlX SINCLAIR REPAIR 
nee® programmer: Must know 
Prin«Goro commands, etc. Cail 
5532562.
PINTER NEEDED. Apply 
SiKine Chapel, Rome, Italy. 
515-2824.
FLUTE TUTOR WANTED for
tutoring tutors to toot. Private 
home in West Homestead. Call 
555-2562.
RUBBER BABY BUGGY 
BUMPER BANGER needed. 
Musthave previous experience 
as shock-absorber washer 
crammer. Apply Sheb Wooley.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University25 September 1995
TOC should expand to 
include H&SS, others
Last week’s Technical Oppor­
tunities Conference was, by all 
accounts, a great success. Em­
ployers raved about the high 
level of talent of the students 
present, and students seemed 
pleased at the variety of compa­
nies that exhibited.
But if you didn’t sprechen sie 
C++, you were out of luck.
What’s billed as a “technical 
opportunities conference” is rap­
idly becoming a “computer sci­
ence opportunities conference.”
Even engineers might have 
been surprised at the doors that 
were closed to them. 
Westinghouse Electric, for ex­
ample — the company that’s 
known worldwide for giant tur­
bines and nuclear reactors — 
was only looking for computer 
programmers.
And if you were a technical 
writer, an industrial designer, 
or, God forbid, a philosophy 
major, you got a warm hand­
shake and were shown the door.
Perhaps it’s just a sign of the 
times. In a world that runs on 
computers, people who design 
operating systems are in high 
demand.
Or, maybe, just maybe, CMU’s 
image as “Computer U.” has led 
much of the outside world to 
believe that there’s nothing else 
here. Sure, people may know 
¦that there’s a drama program 
and a business school. Maybe 
they’ve even heard of the Heinz 
School.
But how many have ever heard 
ofthe College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences?
Stifle that chuckle, and think
¦ about our well-respected rheto­
ric and literary and cultural 
studies programs. Or our his- 
,tory department. Or statistics. 
.Or any ofthe other departments
¦ that make up our neglected col- 
' lege on Frew Street.
It’s fashionable — even accept­
able — for some people to knock 
“H & Less Stress.” But it’s not so 
funny to liberal arts graduates 
who pull four years of all-nighters, 
only to hear prospective employ­
ers say “Oh! Carnegie Mellon! I 
didn’t know they had an English 
department!”
H&SS,.and, to a lesser degree, 
Mellon College of Science, some 
departments in CFA, and the 
department of Industrial Man­
agement are CMU’s forgotten 
colleges. The University has 
forced them into roles as support­
ing players for the other colleges.
It’s not surprising that an insti­
tution that was founded as 
Carnegie Technical Schools prizes 
technology much more than lib­
eral arts and pure science. Con­
sider this, though: the trio of “Ivy 
League” universities that consis­
tently hit the top of the charts, 
Harvard, Princeton, and Yale, got 
there by promoting their excel­
lence in a wide variety of areas, 
not by narrowly focusing their 
resources.
H&SS turned 25 years old last 
year. It should have been a time 
for CMU to re-examine its com­
mitment to the college. But after 
the banners came down and the 
t-shirts were put away, what 
changed?
We applaud the hard work of 
the volunteers who organized the 
Technical Opportunities Confer­
ence. They did a fine job again, 
and the career fair lived up to its 
billing.
But if the University wants to 
show that it values the arts and 
sciences graduates that it’s turn­
ing out, an Arts and Sciences 
Opportunities Conference would 
be a nice idea. A place where 
corporate recruiters from, for ex­
ample, the worlds of research, 
marketing, advertising, and pub­
lishing could come together.
WHEN ItlE ATTENDANCE WUEttl°N4 ARE D°0gL£D FOR CIWJ'S UPMECONlftfc 
GAME, TUE SÏÏüATI0N QDKKLÏ BEC0MES WHENItlATDDD
Letters to the Editor
Bboard controversy 
rages in varied forums
Editor:
Following the 
newsgroup censor-
äSlEi
Student Cmter Room 10-
ship debacle has been i *n
downright painful.
We are mortified that til© EOBtOr 
the administration has framed the issue 
exclusively in terms of minimizing its 
short-term liability while abdicating its 
moral leadership of the principles of 
academic freedom and intellectual in­
quiry which make a great university.
The Bboard Committee has studied 
the issue, but the campus community is 
no better informed about the issues criti­
cal to CMU’s decision.
What are the options for CMU? They 
include: doing nothing, practicing cen­
sorship, or placing the bboards under 
the library or the computer club. What 
did the Committee say about these? It 
only’ examined censorship. Are any 
schools facing legal action regarding the 
newsgroups in question? No idea. What 
have other universities done? Rumor 
has it that Stanford declared their 
newsfeeds part of their library, exempt­
ing them from obscenity laws. What 
does “declared” really mean? Not too 
sure.
Would this solution work in Pennsyl­
vania, with statutes different from Cali­
fornia? No idea. What about MIT’s solu­
tion of giving their computer club con­
trol ofthe newsfeeds? Can MIT’s admin­
istration claim ignorance of the club’s 
activities? Who owns the club’s hard­
ware? Not sure on any of these.
What do legal experts in the field say? 
The committee invited media law expert
A. S. Hammond IV and former Meese 
Commission member Frederick Schauer. 
Hammond said CMU could apply for 
common carrier status, like the phone 
company, and remove its responsibility 
for content of Internet traffic. And 
Frederick Schauer said the likelihood of 
an obscenity prosecution is “infinitesi­
mal ... minuscule, and ... really really 
really really small.” Why did the com­
mittee invite experts only to ignore their 
advice? It’s anybody’s guess.
What did the University lawyers say, 
generally? It can’t be printed. What case 
law has been examined concerning the 
state’s obscenity statute? Apparently 
CMU legal counsel did not discover any 
legal precedents applicable to CMU’s 
situation.
What expertise do these lawyers have 
in telecommunications, obscenity, and 
related law? They’re pretty tight-lipped; 
labor law seems to be a particular 
strength however.
Is the university under external 
threat? Yes, if it accepts the Bboard 
Committee’s recommended policy to 
guide the removal of bboards based on 
content.
When Prodigy did something like this, 
it was found liable for the content of its 
feeds. Because CompuServe did not claim 
to monitor content, it successfully de­
fended itself from legal challenge.
Is the university under internal threat?
Given the university administration’s 
lack of principled leadership on this is­
sue, the answer is also yes. By way of 
contrasting example, U.C.-Berkeley 
Chancellor Chang-Lin Tien, with the 
full support of his faculty, staff and stu­
dents, has taken a moral stand for his 
campus community by essentially cir-
cumventing the directive of the Univer­
sity of California Board of Regents to do 
away with affirmative action. Regard­
ing Internet censorship, what is the 
moral and ethical conviction of Presi­
dent Mehrabian?
Why do we care about ethics? Aren’t 
we just a technology school, pumping 
out engineers, designing robots, making 
computers go faster?
Had the Bboard Committee researched 
what other schools are doing, it might 
have found many waiting to see what w 
do.
In contrast to the vision shown by 
those technologists who developed the 
Internet, here we have a university ad­
ministration that, to date, has reacted 
with censorship in the face of a non­
existent threat, has sought and gathered 
virtually no expert advice or relevant 
information (while ignoring what it has 
obtained), may increase its exposure to 
legal liability by claiming to monitor 
content, and most important, has for­
gotten its role as a vanguard of free 
expression, as a place where ideas — 
some of them controversial, uncomfort­
able, or unthinkable — are exchanged.
It would seem the administration’s 
legal counsel overzealously perceives the 
potential for legal liability without rec­
ognizing the fundamental risks of cen­
sorship.
They may claim to act to protect in the 
short term, butin the longterm they will 
let wither what, inter alia, distinguishes 
CMU from a glorified trade school.
Tse-Sung Wu 
Donna Riley 
Doctoral Students 
Engineering and Public Policy
Mid-semester break Writer compares welfare to pigeons 
debunks Homecoming
This year, Homecoming is 
! ; scheduled for the weekend of 
' October 13, the same weekend 
; as mid-semester break — the 
i only day we have off in the long 
| , period between Labor Day and 
: -Thanksgiving. Because the 
' "breakonlylastsadaytcompared 
'to the week-long respite that 
(some schools get) most students 
try to make the most of it by 
going home, visitingfriends, tak­
ing road trips, in short, getting 
away from campus for as long as 
i the weekend will allow.
¦’ It seems that the Homecoming 
- Committee has done an excel­
lent j ob in organizing events such 
*as a special recognition of 
Carnegie Mellon WWII veter- 
" ans, and Casino Night. We have 
" heard news of a ily-by, a battery 
; of cannons, and the participa­
tion of several hundred CMU 
alumnus. There is also a 
, clippership trip scheduled by the 
” Student Dormitory Council. The 
problem does not lie in the 
"events, but the scheduling.
It is unfortunate that Home- 
_ coming is set on a weekend that 
c many undergraduates will spe­
cifically leave campus for. Per­
haps the planners felt that stu­
dents would be better able to par­
ticipate in Homecoming activi­
ties if they had an extra day to 
finish their schoolwork.
CMU has often been accused of 
catering more to alumni than to 
its own student body, Homecom­
ing perpetuates that opinion. 
Whatever the reason for the 
scheduling, this problem creates 
the perception that the school is 
trying to avoid student-alumni 
interaction.
As scheduled, the weekend 
counters the aim of Homecoming 
— students and alumni can 
hardly interact if the students 
aren’t there. This all comes after 
last year’s disastrous Student- 
Alumni Picnic where the students 
ate in Highlander, and the alumni 
ate under the tent.
Despite the efforts of the stu­
dent organizers, Homecoming 
will be hard-pressed to accom­
plish its goals due to scheduling. 
A majority of students will choose 
off-campus activities over Home­
coming events, and CMU will be 
left with another year of minimal 
student participation in Home­
coming.
James Stepanek
now.
suggested some real reforms has liberals screaming “the sky 
is falling.” I’m not going to hit on many particulars of the 
reforms in this column. I’m really just going to debunk the 
general welfare concept.
Welfare is simply a bad idea. Other than it being a case of 
forced charity, which can be seen as simply theft, it doesn’t 
even help the people it is sup­
posed to aid. It creates depen­
dency, destroys families, and 
isn’t even efficient.
Let me give you an analogy to 
welfare. Say you have a bird 
feeder. If you keep your bird 
feeder stocked' all year long, ——————
many birds won’t bother migrating and will simply come to 
rely on the feeder. In fact, they will have a life which revolves 
on the seeds which you provide.
They will nest near you, possibly in birdhouses which you 
provide, and won’t stray far from the easy life. You may 
consider this a worthwhile thing. You get the amusement 
value of watching the birds and hearing them sing. Of course, 
you may not just get sparrows and robins at the feeder. You 
might get some flying rats (pigeons), but hey, that’s the 
danger of giving out freebies.
What would happen if everyone was forced to have a bird 
feeder? Well, the birds would certainly be happy. They could 
just sing and eat and never need to watch out for their 
survival.
Of course, this would encourage a proliferation of birds 
simply because that is the way of nature. Critters will multi­
ply in times of plenty. With the profusion of birds, you’ll also 
get a profusion of bird waste. You’ll also get more of the 
damned pigeons since they’ll live on this, too.
Your yard will probably end up a mess with nests and guano 
everywhere, and you’ll probably start going broke paying for 
more and more seed for the rapidly procreating birds.
Currently in the Now, let’s go even further with this analogy. Say that of 
news is a great deal every quantity of birdseed you put out, less than half actually 
of discussion about gets to the birds you want to feed (for the sake of argument, 
welfare reform. Of say the squirrels get it). Now you’re really going to go broke, 
course, the fact How could you possibly expect to keep up? Then you give the 
that the Republi- birds, pigeons, and squirrels input on whether or not there is 
cans have actually a bird feeder. Getting the idea?
Does it do the birds any good? Not really, since they are now 
living in cramped conditions, getting bullied by the pigeons, 
and only get the leavings of the squirrels.
Do you see the analogy?
Welfare is just a people feeder. The liberals have used it to 
create a dependent class which guarantees them a voting 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- block due to
“I must confess, I disagree with the their dePendency. It ere-
Republicans. I say kill welfare right ates areas
where crime is
rampant 
(damn pi­
geons) and has
created an entrenched bureaucracy (pesky squirrels) which 
consumes the majority of the expenditures.
So what is it that the Republicans have suggested that has 
the liberals so upset?
A five-year limit on the free ride. This has people going 
completely haywire, even though it will still include money for 
child care for working welfare mothers. The House version is 
a bit more harsh. It says that the government shouldn't 
subsidize extra children. Now, that one really makes leftists 
skyrocket.
If people make choices to live beyond their means, why 
should I pay for it? Everyone I know who considers having 
children makes quite sure they can afford it. Why should 
welfare people be different?
I must confess, I disagree with the Republicans. I say kill 
welfare right now.
We’ve thrown trillions of dollars down the pit of Johnson’s 
Great Society programs to no avail. They’ve already done 
enough harm.
James Stepanek is a graduate student in MSE. He welcomes 
replies to his opinions.

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M * VU vut9uy’ue SddU7
Columnist clears up financial aid conundrums
Mark Kantrowitz
With all the rhetoric and hand- 
waving about the proposed cuts 
in student financial aid, it is no 
wonder that students and par­
ents are confused and worried 
about the future of financial aid. 
In this column I hope to present a 
clear picture of the proposed 
changes and their likely impact.
Currently, more than $100 bil­
lion is spent each year on financ­
ing the college educations of stu­
dents. Of this, about 2/3 comes 
from the families ($65 billion) and 
1/3 from financial aid ($40 bil­
lion). The federal government 
provides about 70% of all finan­
cial aid ($30 billion), with half of 
all students getting some form of 
student financial assistance from
the federal government. The re­
mainder comes from the schools 
themselves (19%), state programs 
(6%), employers (5%), and pri­
vate scholarships (<1%). More 
than half of the federal aid is in 
the form of loans ($21 billion), 
with the rest in the form of grant 
and work-study programs.
The proposed cuts in federal 
student aid range from a low of 
$10.4 billion over the next seven 
years, to a high of $24.2 billion. 
These cuts represent an overall 
reduction in federal support of 
higher education of 5% to 14%. 
The cuts will be implemented 
through a variety of mechanisms, 
including possibly: eliminating 
the 6 month grace period after 
graduation before repayment be­
gins, increasing the origination 
fee by 0.5% on all student loans, 
eliminating planned reductions 
in the student loan interest rates,
eliminating the in-school inter­
est exemption on student loans 
for graduate and professional stu­
dents, and adding a 2% fee to all 
student loans.
So although Congress wouldn’t 
be eliminating the student loan 
program, they will be making the 
loans more costly for students. 
For example, the elimination of 
in-school interest exemptions 
could increase graduate student 
indebtedness by up to 47% 
($33,000), with an increase in loan 
payments of $339/month for stu­
dents who borrow the maximum 
amount. In addition, the propos­
als require several things. First, 
there is the elimination of sev­
eral worthwhile scholarship and 
fellowship programs, such as the 
NEH, Javits, Harris, and GANN 
programs for graduate students 
and the TRIO, SSIG, Douglas, 
and Byrd programs for under­
graduate students. Second, it is 
necessary to freeze Pell Grant 
funding at current levels, with no 
adjustment for inflation.
Proposals to achieve savings 
by eliminating the Direct Loan 
program are not well-founded, 
while proposals to expand the 
program are. The real basis of the 
hypothetical savings has been the 
reductions in costs due to in­
creased competition for educa­
tional loans by private lenders — 
a direct result of the implementa­
tion of the Direct Loan program. 
Eliminating the Direct Loan pro­
gram will probably increase costs, 
as would eliminating private 
lending. Private lenders have 
been forced to become more effi­
cient as a result of the increased 
competition.
These cuts continue the steady 
erosion of federal support of 
higher education, which began
with the elimination of many pro­
grams during the Reagan years 
and the elimination of the tax 
exemption for scholarships and 
fellowships in the Tax Reform 
Act of 1986. More recently, the 
federal government has reduced 
the total volume of university re­
search grants and introduced 
caps on the indirect cost recovery 
rate.
Attempts to eliminate the fed­
eral deficit are admirable, but 
should not be based on cuts in 
what are essentially investment 
programs, such as education and 
research.
If anything, we should be in­
creasing spending levels for edu­
cation and research, not decreas­
ing them.
Mark Kantrowitz is a PhD stu­
dent in the school of computer 
science.Activists axe all acceptance of human ingenuity
Jon Orris
For the past several months, there has 
been a great hue and cry in the press 
about the plans of the current Congress to 
roll back environmental laws and regula­
tions. “They want to give rich, greedy 
corporations the right to pollute!” and 
other such nonsensical slogans are 
shouted regularly by environmentalists 
and their friends in the press. Many well 
meaning people think that the environ­
mental movement is a good thing, and 
even become affiliated with it. They think 
that the movement’s goals are in their 
self interest. After all, everyone wants to 
live in a healthy, clean environment, and 
that’s what environmentalists are after, 
right?
Wrong. Supporting environmentalism 
is definitely not in your self interest. This 
presumes, of course, that you have a de­
sire to five on earth. This column is ad­
dressed to those who think that the envi­
ronmentalist movement stands for good 
things, and to those who have begun to 
involve themselves with it. Concern with 
legitimate environmental problems is not 
wrong, but involvement with the various 
green movements most certainly is. I will 
discuss some of what the “Green Move­
ment” actually stands for. In later col­
umns, I intend to detail some of the gross 
scientific and economic inaccuracies per­
petuated by the environmentalists.
Consider the Endangered Species Act: 
First, the goal of this legislation is to 
protect species from going extinct. Now I 
have never, in my entire life, been chased 
down the street by a dinosaur who was 
looking for a quick snack. Why? Because 
they’re extinct, of course, along with un­
counted millions of other species. Extinc­
tions were going on for billions of years 
before man appeared. Now, suddenly, 
certain men are concerned about this pro­
cess. And like many concerned men who 
don’t like something, they pass a law to 
stop it.
Leaving aside the insanity of trying to 
pass laws to stop evolution, what effect do 
these laws have on human beings? If a 
species is declared to be in danger of 
extinction, any and all human activity 
that threatens the survival of that species 
is forbidden, with no compensation what­
soever to whoever owns the property the 
endangered animal has chosen as it’s habi­
tat.
This amounts, in effect, to the sacrifice 
of human lives for those of animals. A 
recent example of this is the timber com­
pany that was forbidden to continue log­
ging operations on a large track of govern­
ment forest because a few spotted owls 
called it home. The company couldn’t 
even have them removed. Forest land that 
could have yielded millions of dollars in 
revenue became worthless, the company’s 
investment in time, money, and effort was 
for nothing, and many loggers lost their 
jobs. All for the sake of letting a few owls
grow to cover populated areas, or that also one of the world’s wealthiest nations, 
ozone levels fall anywhere else except for It is because we have something starving
normal random atmospheric fluctuations.
This has not stopped many industrial 
nations, the United States included, from 
implementing a total ban on the produc­
tion of CFCs. The phase out of various 
CFCs will be complete by the year 2000. 
One of the most important CFCs is freon, 
which is used in air conditioning. Since 
the CFC phase out was implemented in 
the late eighties, prices of freon have sky­
rocketed, in part due to increasingly re­
strictive taxation. Freon smuggling is be­
coming a big business,
third world nations do not have: the free­
dom to produce, to act, to sustain one’s life.
And yet, the solution of environmental­
ists is not more freedom, but less. Births 
must be curtailed, populations must de­
crease. That some environmentalists speak 
approvingly of the population controls of 
countries like Communist China, with its 
forced abortions and sterilizations, is an 
obscenity.
Virtually every environmentalist act has 
as its result the destruction of values, the
violation of individual rights, and the wors- 
Environmentalists claim that we must ening of the quality of life for those upon
whom it is inflicted. To look at 
the results of the policies of 
the EPA, and to look at the 
further insanities being pro­
posed by the green lobby, and 
refuse to see the danger, is a 
deadly act of evasion.
The basis of environmen-
yJAySSyySSOSJOyJJJJJJJJNJTi' talism is not a desire to pro­
tect us from man-made dan- 
give up some of our modern comforts to gers. The philosophical root of environ- 
protect the earth. Consider the heat wave mentalism is a profound and disgusting 
this summer, and the hundreds who died hatred of human values, production, free- 
in the Midwest. Though a large number of dom, and thus, ultimately, of human life, 
these deaths were due to massive power In conclusion, as I said at the beginning, 
outages, many simply could not afford the this essay is addressed primarily to the 
cost of air conditioning. Think about the large majority who sanction the environ- 
negligible or nonexistent problems and horrific cost of replacing all existing re- mental movement, those who think that
“The basis of environmentalism is not a desire to pro­
tect us from man-made dangers. [It]... is a profound 
and disgusting hatred of human values, production, 
freedom, and thus, ultimately, human life. ”
live in peace. This is one of the things that 
the current Congress might change, and it 
has environmentalists howling in fury.
Pollution: In this area, environmental­
ists have either taken a few legitimate 
problems and turned them into a clarion 
call for curtailing industry, or have taken
blown them out of proportion. Sweeping 
laws have been passed in fear of global 
warming, laws that will drastically affect 
the economy. The idea of a global warming 
trend is based on very complex modeling 
of sketchy, contradictory data, which none­
theless attempts to project global climatic 
conditions a century into future. Despite 
these flaws, serious public policy deci­
sions resulting in the loss of billions of
frigeration equipment with new equip- environmentalism has as it’s goal the im-
ment, which itself promises to be more 
expensive and less safe than freon- based 
systems to operate.
Think about how many more people will 
be left unable to afford the cost of air 
conditioning. Then ask yourself if the im­
provement of human life is the goal of the 
environmental movement.
Population: The growth of human popu-
dollars per year are being based on such lations is one of the biggest concerns of cisely their goal.
provement of human life. It does not. If you 
say, ‘They don’t really mean it!’, they do. 
They’ve been open about their goals for 
decades, and they aren’t kidding.
Their goals have been steadily imple­
mented over the past few decades, and the 
results are around for all to see. Their 
policies, if not checked, will bring indus­
trial civilization to its knees, which is pre­
studies..
The ozone problem is another example. 
That man-made CFCs have been found in 
the upper stratosphere is beyond doubt, 
but the evidence that man made CFCs are 
contributing significantly to ozone deple­
tion is poor at best. Beyond that, the only 
significant ozone depletion is the annual 
Antarctic hole. Although CFCs may con­
tribute to the formation of this hole, strong 
evidence shows that the hole is a perfectly 
natural phenomenon, dependent on many 
unusual conditions that exist during the
environmentalists. Prominent environ­
mentalists, including Vice President Gore 
(a father of four) complain that there are 
simply too many people, and if global 
populations do not decline, we’ll all starve. 
Certainly, in many densely populated
Do not support the environmentalist 
movement in any way.
Concern over some environmental issue, 
no matter how legitimate, is no excuse to 
make common cause with them. This is 
how they gain respectability and the politi-
parts ofthe world the people are very poor, cal power to influence public policy, 
starvation is often rampant, and people It is only by the virtue of your moral 
live in truly miserable conditions. Of sanction that these people have any power
course, many parts of the US are among 
the most densely populated in the world. 
Yet the people living in these parts of the 
US are not living in squalid conditions,
Antarctic winter. The hole disappears nor are they starving. They are prosper- 
when these conditions cease. There is no ing. Japan also has one of the world’s 
evidence whatsoever that this hole may highest population densities. Yet Japan is
whatsoever to implement their destructive 
agenda.
I urge you to withdraw that undeserved 
sanction.
Jon Orris is a physics major. He wel­
comes any replies to his column.
We wanted to know what 
you, the cereal-eating pub­
lic, wanted to ask the cam­
pus community. Therefore, 
we asked the question: What 
would be a good Person’s 
Opinion question?
Melissa Elegre 
Senior 
Chem E
“Why did you come here?”
Vincent Noth
Junior
Drama
“What do you think of isola­
tion between the colleges at 
CMU?”
Sam Listopod 
Freshman 
Cognitive Science
“Where is the best place on 
campus to have sex?”
Angela Miale 
Freshman 
Creative Writing
“How would you describe 
purple to a blind person?”
THE TÀRTAN
Camegle Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Lauren E, Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
News Editor.............Jason Togyer
Forum Editor...............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe'
.............................Matthew Soiitro
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney
.....................Jonmichael L.T. Moy
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
...............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Ed. .. Adriane Seibert 
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
..............................Gabrien Symons
Photo Editor. Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr..............Kathy Liu
Acting Systems Mgr........1-Ping Li
Copy Manager.............Eric Strauss
Asst. News Ed.......Sameer Karim
Asst. Diversions Ed......Ena Kahn
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder
Senior Staff 
Jason Andracki, Matt Ball, 
Chintan Shah
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovitz, Josef Birnbolm, Chris 
Cannon, barren Chiapetta, Carey 
Clevenger, Tricia Davis, Gretel 
Gaal, Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, 
Tom Harper, Jason Heinlein, David 
Koran, WladlmirLabeikovsky,April 
C. Moate, Angela Molloy, Suzanne 
Paddok, Sudhir Reddy, Rick 
Simmons, James Stepanek, Paul 
Tabachneck, Bill Vandermark, 
Sharmila Venkata-subban, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Ryan Rhoades
Comics
Nick Casclato Jr., Ramsey Hong, 
Jung Park, Jackson Tam, Daniel 
Yauger, Mike Yeh
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Josh Freeman, 
Yuzo Watanabe
Production 
Shiv Dewan, LesterManzano, Eliza­
beth Neuman, Victor Ortega, 
Shantanu Rana, Derek Wahila
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardeill, Mimi 
Cheng, Max Chittister, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win­
ter Mason, Diane Ohm, Ed 
Slavishak, Richard Smolen, M. J. 
Wilson
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DiGiuseppi
Junior Staff 
Diana Bartolotta, Yosef Birnboim, 
Chris Cannon, Steve Charnoubi, 
Wanching Cheng, Lisa Don, Neil 
Donnelly, Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, 
Michael Howard, Helen Huang, 
Heather Keith, Alex Lewin, Jenni­
fer Li, Sandy Lii, Dizzy Murphy, 
Kenneth Namchung, Kyle 
Oppenheim, Rick Rikoski, Carla 
Sereny, Rick Simmons, Gustavo 
Sganzerla, Jessica Strelitz, Minh 
Tran, Andrew Wang, Jillian 
Watkins, Aaron Weisberg
The Tartan 4i 9lu i9DAu09 0uhitmtue rp Ime0­
us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M6 L9 4i m huuEaM 0uhitm­
tue tD’a4iluA ’M i9DAu09i ADe40s 9lu pmaa m0A 
ite40s iuyui9ueib m9 0r Tri9 9r yuy’uei rp 
9lu n04guei49M TryyD049M6 L9 4i te409uA ’M Wui9­
ue0 Ru00iMagm04m Re40940sb L0T6 vD’iTe4t94r0i 
meu mgm4am’au pre 9lu iuyui9ue re mTmAuy4T 
Mume6 olu editorials mttume40s m9 9lu ’us40040s 
rp9lu rt404r0 iuT94r0 meu 9lu rpp4T4ma rt404r0 rp 
The Tartan uA49re4ma ’rmeA6 Columns m0A po­
litical cartoons meu 9lu rt404r0i rp 40A4g4ADma 
Teum9rei6 The Tartan euiuegui 9lu e4sl9 9r 
eu1uT9 re Tr0Au0iu m0M TraDy0 re tra494Tma 
Tme9rr06 Letters to the Editor meu rt404r0i rp 
mD9lrei hlr meu DiDmaaMb ’D9 0r9 0uTuiime4aMb 
yuy’uei rp9lu n04guei49M TryyD049M6 O au99ue 
409u0AuA pre tD’a4Tm94r0 yDi9 ’u i4s0uA m0A 
40TaDAu 9lu he49ue’i mAAeuii m0A tlr0u 0Dy­
’ue pre gue4p4Tm94r06 Nmyui ymM ’u h49lluaA 
Dtr0 euwDui96 The Tartan euwDui9i 9lm9 au99uei 
’u 0r ar0sue 9lm0 U00 hreAi6 The Tartan 
euiuegui 9lu e4sl9 9r Tr0Au0iu re eu1uT9 m0M 
au99ue6 IrtMe4sl9 © SddU ’M The Tartan. The 
Tartan uA49re4ma ’rmeA euiuegui 9lu e4sl9 9r 
h49llraA pery tD’a4Tm94r0 m0M TrtM 49 Auuyi 
D0p49 pre tD’a4Tm94r06
fpp4Tu: v9DAu09 Iu09ue Brry S04 
Rlr0u: ?4SV2 V68:VSSS 
Cm4a40s mAAeuii: olu ome9m0GBrx S7GIme0us4u 
Cuaar0 n04guei49MGR499i’Deslb RO SUVSN:N8d0 
FD0AuA 40 tme9 ’M MrDe OT94g494ui Fuu6
Oaa e4sl9i euiueguA6
k4’emeM rp Ir0seuii LvvN #: 08d0:NS076

---------------------------------------------------

The Best Way To Save Money 
On Stuff (Other Than Borrowing
Your Roommate's). Roommates tend to get a little
weird when you borrow their stuff. (They’re funny like that.) Better to get
Master
5H1S 3*f5b "ISSO
0000 ÏJXS 2/96. '•SAHDt GLASER
yourself a MasterCard® card. Then you could use it to 
buy the things you really want. And with these
College MasterValues® coupons, you’ll save up to 40%. And until you get your
own place, it’s the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird enough
as it is. MasterCard. It’s more than a credit card. It’s smart money"
L
JCPenneyOptical Center
50% OFF ANY 
EYEGLASS FRAME
Save 50% on absolutely every eyeglass frame plus...bonus 
discount of S20 on our best lenses. Sale includes any eyeglass 
frame in stock when you purchase a complete pair of eyeglasses 
and use your MasterCard11 Card. Lens discount applies to 
our best lenses. See optician for details. Coupon required.
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card.
Surrender coupon at time of purchase. Coupon has no cash 
value, and may not be combined with any coupon, discount.
Value Right package or vision care plan.
Limit one coupon per purchase. See optician for details.
Void where prohibited.
TWEEDS
SAVE $10 ON 
WOMEN’S APPAREL
Simplicity, comfort and style... that’s Tweeds.
Save on all Tweeds clothing and accessories. Call 
1-800-999-7997 and receive a FREE catalog with our latest 
styles. Place your order and save $10 on any purchase of $50 or 
more when you use your MasterCard* Card and mention the 
COLLEGE MasterValues* offer #C3WA.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases 
using a MasterCard* Card and when the COLLEGE 
MasterValues* offer #C3WA is mentioned. Offer void where 
prohibited, taxed, or restricted. Coupon may not be combined 
with any other coupon or discount. Shipping and handling arc ^
extra. Limit one discount per purchase. '«iStefViilU®’
/1RTÇ/1KVEDCollege Jewelry
SAVE UP TO $140
Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake you’ll 
always treasure. Save $35 on 10K gold, $70 on 14K gold 
or $140 on 18K gold. C^ll 1-800-952-7002 for more details. 
Mention offer #9501.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card and when ___ —
offer #9501 is mentioned. Coupon may not be combined with 
any other coupon or discount. Shipping and handling are extra. (
Limit one discount per purchase. ilfcTaU t*î^
Some restrictions apply. Void where prohibited. '^StBfVcHuCs
CAMELOT
Save $3 Off A CD
Here’s music to your cars... save $3 on one regularly priced 
Compact Disc at $6.99 or more when you use your 
MasterCard’1 Card. Limit two $3 discounts per coupon, per 
purchase. Limit one S3 discount per box set purchase. Offer 
Not Valid Without This Coupon. COUPON #336
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card. Surrender 
coupon at time of purchase.
Coupon has no cash redemption value. Offer void where pro­
hibited, taxed or restricted. Coupon may not be combined with 
any other discount. Discount not to exceed $6 per coupon. ''Atic+rw*
Coupon not valid on sale merchandise. fcot&TVBlU'-3
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
49% OFF A SPECIAL 
12-WEEK SUBSCRIPTION
Invest in your future and stay on top of current developments 
with The Wall Street Journal. For a limited time only, use your 
MasterCard* Card and pay just $23 for a 12-week 
subscription to the nation’s leading business publication.
To take advantage of this special offer, call 1-800-348-3555 
and please refer to source key 75NY.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card and 
when source key 75NY is mentioned.
Limit one subscription discount per person.
Void where prohibited.
TIM! W A I N I R
GET ONE VIDEO FREE 
WHEN YOU BUY THREE
Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of top-quality 
videos at discount prices. All videos are priced at $9.95 or less 
and are 100% satisfaction guaranteed. Act now and get one 
video FREE when you buy three and use your MasterCard* 
Card. Call 1-800-551-0262 for your FREE catalog and ask 
for the COLLEGE MasterValues* offer #1081-5999.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases 
using a MasterCard* Card and when the COLLEGE 
MasterValues" offer #1081-5999 is mentioned.
Offer may not be combined with any other offer or discount. 
Offer valid for U.S. residents only. Void where prohibited.’ tsstaVsteS
Box OF firE
COLUMBIA
A Diviiion of Sony Mum* Entrruu
SAVE 25%
Save 25% off the regular price of the Aerosmith collection, 
featuring all the original Columbia albums. BOX OF FIRE 
includes a previously-unreleased, 5-track bonus disc of 
Aero-rarities and hard-to-find gems including "Subway", "Circle 
Jerk" and more! Order now and get 12 CDs for $89.99. Call 
1-800-322-3412 and ask for the COLLEGE MasterValues* Offer.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using 
a MasterCard* Card and when the COLLEGE MasterValues* " 
offer is mentioned. Offer may not be combined with any other 
discount. Shipping and handling $3.50 per purchase. Lintit one ¦ v «¡w- s
discount per purchase. Sales ax applicable. Void where prohibited. 'WStGfVsK^’
SAVE 20%
Run into Herman’s and save. Take 20% off your next purchase 
of regular priced merchandise when you use your MasterCard* 
Card. Find everything you need at Herman’s... We Are Sports.* 
Offer excludes certain merchandise. Coupon Required.
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a 
MasterCard* Card. Surrender coupon at time of purchase. Offer excludes CrossWalk 
Plus, Cardio-Glide, all golf balls, select pro clubs, select Prince, Wilson, Head, 
Pro-Kennex and Ektelon rackets, select Nike and Reebok Prestige product. Fila,
Teva, Converse L.J., Asics 2(X)1 and Rollerblade footwear, Team 
Division merchandise, hundng and fishing licenses, equipment 
services, home delivery and gift certificates. Offer may not be 
combined with any other discount or promotion. Limit one
coupon per purchase. Coupon valid at any Herman's location. Ens » u» .x 
SPC #65. Void where prohibited.
WORDEXPRESSfor Windows
SAVE 40% ON WINDOWS 
WORD PROCESSOR
WordExpress makes it easy to create great looking reports, 
term papers, essays and more. Top of the line feature set, fast 
and easy to use. Includes professionally designed Resume 
Templates. Only $29.95 when you use your MasterCard* 
Card and mention offer WXO-MC. To order, call 
1-800-998-4555. Visit Us On The World Wide Web 
at http://delta.com/microv/home
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid 
only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card 
and when offer WXO-MC is mentioned.
Shipping and handling are additional. Limit '¦i/*
one discount per purchase. Void where prohibited. *«3St6fV3ft)CP
JOIN AND SAVE $45
Join for only $15, instead of the regular $60 annual 
membership. Then enjoy FREE lift tickets and 
savings up to 50% on lift tickets, resort lodging and dining, 
etc., at top resorts East and West. A great gift for skiers/ 
snowboarders. Call 1-800-800-2SKI (2754) to join or for 
details and specials in your favorite areas and mention offer 
#15MCSKI. Plus look for us on the internet at 
URL http://www.skicard. com/skicard
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card and when 
the #15MCSK1 is mentioned. Details on skier discounts listed ir 
95/96 "Savings Guide" included with each membership.
urigt Mon-Fri. 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Mm time.
Void where prohibited./lfeterV*eS^
ONE HOURMOTOPHOTO
50% OFF FILM PROCESSING
Hold on to the good times and your money, too.
Take 50% off the regular price of processing and printing on 
the first set of prints at MotoPhoto, when you use your 
MasterCard* Card. Call 1-800-733-6686 for the location 
nearest you. Limit 1. Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon.
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Cash redemption value 1/20*.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard" Card. Surrender coupon at tint 
purchase. Limit one coupon per purchase. Cannot be combined with 
any odier offers or discounts. MotoPhoto Club Members are cnti- 
ded to take 10% off the coupon price. Offer valid on C-41 
process, 35 mm film, and standard size prints only. Offer valid at 
participating stores only. , TV
Void where prohibited.
THE SHARPER IMAGE’
SAVE 15% ON YOUR NEXT 
PURCHASE OF $75 OR MORE
Shopping is easy at America’s premier specialty retailer of gift, 
fitness, recreational, travel, apparel and more. Save 15% on a 
purchase of $75 or more when you shop at any of our 
75 store locations or by mail order. Call 1-800-344-4444,
24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to find the store nearest you 
or for a FREE catalog.
Coupon Required. Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on 
purchases using a MasterCard" Card. There arc a limited number of items to which this 
offer does not apply. May not be combined with Frequent Buyers" Program, Price 
Matching Policy, auction purchases, or other discounts or promotions.
Not valid on purchase of gift certificates or on previous purchases.
The discount is applicable to, and the minimum purchase based / 
on current merchandise prices only, and excludes tax, shipping ' 
and tax on shipping. Void where prohibited. POS CODE: L
O 1995 MiilnCarii liilcnialioiiul InairpoiiUrii

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 90, Issue 4The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania25 September 1995Soccer teams shut out all opponents
All photos: Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer
The Tartans controlled the ball against two local rivals, Waynesburg and Allegheny, for two big wins.
Cu0’i vrTTue h40i N:0b 9h4Tu
ceived a low, hard ball in the 
penalty area, and buried it.
Then, just two minutes later, 
Ulrich took a throw-in from fifth- 
year senior midfielder Chuck 
Kuba, fooled the man covering 
him, and beat him down the side­
line. He then fired it from the 
baseline to sophomore midfielder 
Akira Imai, who one-touched it 
past the goalkeeper before he 
could react.
Last Tuesday’s game against 
Allegheny College was once again 
a very rough game. The referee 
missed a few “key” calls early in 
the game, encouraging the play­
ers to commit further dirty fouls 
and almost allowing the game to 
get out of hand.
Allegheny would go on to com­
mit several vicious fouls on the 
Tartans, and, in the end, three 
yellow cards were given out. Play 
stayed relatively even in the first 
half, with no goals being scored.
Just two minutes into the sec­
ond half, though, the Tartans 
seized an opportunity. Kuba 
served a ball to the right side to 
wide-open senior back Alan 
Levin. He got off a good shot that 
seemed stoppable by the Allegh­
eny keeper, but it somehow rolled 
through and the Tartans took the 
lead, 1-0.
Then, Carnegie Mellon started 
capitalizing on some of 
Allegheny’s fouls. Five minutes 
after Levin’s goal, Imai sent in a 
free kick. A charging Ulrich re­
ceived it and fired it off the keeper. 
He got his own rebound and then 
knocked it in.
Then with about eight minutes 
to go in the game, another free 
kick from Imai bounced off gradu­
ate student midfielder Jeff 
McJunkin, and sophomore for­
ward Jason Buelow volleyed in 
the loose ball.
The Tartans will not play again 
until Friday, when they match 
up against a strong Brandeis 
University team at 5:30 pm in 
Gesling Stadium.
Then, on Sunday, the team will 
host the University of Rochester 
at 1 pm.
The team will spend their off 
days readying themselves for the 
tough competition they will face 
this important UAA weekend.
Senior forward Nicole Poisson charges past a Catholic defender in Friday night’s home matchup.Tartans crush Catholic
By PAUL BOOTHE that the keeper dropped after another shot on goal.
Tartan Sports Co-Editor The team then took a break, waiting almost two
minutes before junior back Mae Hogan placed a 
Blowout is the best way to describe the Tartans’ corner kick directly in front of the goal, where 
Friday evening. The women’s soccer team crushed Poisson had a beautiful jumping header that 
Catholic University 5-0 at home. The Tartans took bounced the ball high into the goal, 
control early and never looked back. Less than six CMU controlled the rest of the first half, as 
minutes into the first half, sophomore forward Kim Catholic never seemed to be able to hold possession 
Umeda fired a hard, close shot on goal that the of the ball long enough to clear the ball from their
goalkeeper managed to deflect. Sophomore for- half of the field, let alone mount an offensive drive,
ward Lauren DeRosset took control of the ball and The action came to a halt with 18 minutes re- 
easily put it into the net behind the dazed goalie. •• maining before halftime, as freshman midfielder 
CMU kept heavy pressure on the Catholic de- Allison Higgins and a Catholic midfielder both 
fense for another nine minutes before senior for- went up for a high headball at the same time. The 
ward Nicole Poisson blasted the ball into the goal Catholic player’s jaw hit Higgins’nose, and Higgins 
for the second Tartan goal. This time it only took hit the ground hard. Both players walked off the 
about a minute before CMU lit up the scoreboard field, shaken, but otherwise unharmed, 
again, with DeRosset sprinting in to put in a ball Please see SHUTOUT, page 11
Senior defender Jill Sincaglia sends a cross torward the middle of the field before the Catholic University 
defender can block her kick. Sincaglia also helped the Tartans keep the defensive end clear.
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
The men’s soccer team is look­
ing somewhat like a well-oiled 
machine after shutting out Al­
legheny College and Waynesburg 
College last week, both by the 
score of 3-0.
“I had never done this before,” 
said coach Nick Gaudioso, “but I 
decided to take this season one 
game at a time until we got a 
couple wins.”
The strategy worked, for the 
Tartans have now won more than 
a couple games. They’ve won four 
straight, including three shut 
outs, bringing their UAA record 
to 1—1 and their overall record to 
4-1-1.
In Thursday’s game against 
Waynesburg College, the Tartans 
had to overcome a difficult offsides 
trap. Their work was clearly cut 
out for them as they were called 
offsides several times and scored 
no goals in the first half.
However, eight minutes into 
the second half, freshman for­
ward Harry Ulrich beat the trap, 
timing his run perfectly off a ball 
lobbed into Waynesburg’s pen­
alty area.
The good timing on the run 
combined with Waynesburg’s ex­
pectation that the referee would 
call Ulrich off sides gave him just 
about all day to settle the ball 
and fire it into the back of the net.
A mere 17 minutes later, Ulrich 
again timed his run perfectly, re-
Graduate student Jeff McJunkin dribbles the ball as a teammate starts 
a run downfield in Thursday night’s game against Waynesburg College.
Women’s tennis dominates Cortland; men play tourney
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The women’s tennis team continues 
their march of excellence as their record 
stands at 7-1. The men’s team, mean­
while, continues to improve their posi­
tion for the next semester with a record 
of 3-3 and a sixth-place finish in a recent 
tournament.
Last weekend the men’s team played 
in the Great Dane Classic at the Univer­
sity of Rochester. The round-robin tour­
nament consisted of 12 teams from the 
east coast.
In the first round, the team played St. 
John from Fisher in a seemingly easy 
match as the team won 9-0. The team 
then played Allegheny College for the 
second time in three days. Although 
CMU lost the previous encounter, it was
an intense and close match played amidst 
much controversy. The second match, 
again played with close matches, did not 
go CMU’s way as they lost another tough 
match to Allegheny.
Sophomore Dan Bilco commented, 
“The match didn’t go well.... The team 
did not play to its potential. There was 
still a lot of controversy in the calls.” 
Sophomore Navroze Marshall agreed, 
“We were emotionally and physically 
tired and I wasn’t looking forward to 
playing them [Allegheny] again.” 
Nevertheless the team persisted in 
the tournament and won their next 
match (their third) against Nazareth. In 
their final match, the team battled for a 
fifth place against the University of Roch­
ester. Played in severe conditions, the 
team lost another close match. The wind 
from Lake Ontario made it impossible
for the players to serve and play their 
points properly.
According to the players, the match 
was not taken seriously due to the windy 
conditions. The final loss has nearly 
guaranteed that CMU will be seeded 
lower than Rochester. Marshall said that 
the team will need to play match tough 
if they are to find success next semester.
“We [the team] will need to practice 
consistently to win tight matches,” he 
said.
The women’s team won their seventh- 
straight match last weekend at Roches­
ter before losing their first match of the 
season. The team dominated Courtland 
College 9-0 and was set to meet the 
University of Rochester in their first 
meeting of the season. The event also 
marked the team’s first divisional oppo­
nent. Although the team played tough,
they lost the close match 6-3. Despite 
the loss, the team gained a firm under­
standing for their expectations in future 
matches.
Freshman Karin Tuxen said, “[Roch­
ester] was the best team we’ve ever 
played this season and they were sur­
prised by our team.”
This CMU team has found much suc­
cess in their young line-up and have a 
near-perfect record to prove it. Accord­
ing to many players, the common senti­
ment is to work hard and play consis­
tent.
Tuxen added, “In tough matches, we 
have to keep our heads by playing point 
by point.”
Many players also agree that there is 
a lot of spirit and dedication in this 
edition of women’s tennis.
The women’s team will play Carlow
College this Wednesday at home. The 
team is hoping to improve their overall 
record to 8-1.
The men’s team will not play another 
school until a home match on October 14 
against Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity. This will be an important match for 
future seeding in UAA Conference Tour­
nament held this spring. A loss to Case 
Western will almost guarantee a low 
seeding and a probable event of playing 
a higher seeded team.
This coming weekend six to seven play­
ers from the men’s team will attend the 
Rolex Tournament at Swarthmore Col­
lege. The single consolation tournament 
is designed for individual players to com­
pete and progress through the tourna­
ment. CMU will not be represented as 
team but rather as individual players in 
this tournament.

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Writer makes World Series predictions
Reds will beat Indians in all-Ohio championship
Administration
' IM Director— Mike Mastroianni, x8- 
2214; Asst. Director— Mike Grzywinski, 
683-2938; IM Secretary — Michelle 
Malta, X8-2053; IM Co-Presidents — 
Mike Monico and Sean Keane, X2-2900; 
IMiWomen's Pres. — Patty Bruno.
Orí.'¦jfj Important Dates
¦acrj'iiesday, September 26 — Water 
(tajo play begins.
7Thursday, September 28 — Co-rec 
volleyball playoff schedule out.oo'
¦j<Sunday, October 1—Intramural Golf 
Tournament at Schenley Golf Course.
ÍÍJ3.^fiuesday, October 3 — IM Board 
Meeting, 12:30.
^Wednesday, October4 — Intramural 
cro^s country meet, 4:30, Flagstaff 
ffifll
IIS
mThursday, October 5 — Entries due 
fgnsoccer, Highlander games, volley­ball, bowling, racquetball.
0"i(Intramural Football79’
G YEE teams that have games resched­
uled are reminded to check the Intra­
mural Office for dates and times after 
business hours.
The rankings in the minor’s and 
women’s stay basically the same. The 
majors has a new #1 team, NP Comple­
tions, with a 3-0 record and a big win 
over last week’s #1 team, SAE Cham- 
p|
Majors
kf. NP Completions (3-0)
02. SAE Champions (2-1) 
j3'. Beta Colemans #83 (2-1)
zx
MiPgr?
¡-1. PKT Silent Rage (3-0)
; 2. TX Blue (3-0) 
j 3. Beta All-Stars (3-0)
; 4. Deit Scrubs (3-0) 
j 5. 69’ers (3-0)
¡ Women
Í 1. Tartan Hoopers 
• 2. BBE 
‘ 3. Theta/DG
Water Polo
Water polo begins this Tuesday, Sep­
tember 26. Games will be played on 
lesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays 
9 and 10 pm. 
j Teams should pick up schedules in 
the Intramural Office. Anyone interested 
in officiating water polo games should 
Intramural Director Mike 
astroianni (x8-2214) for more infor­
mation.
.
Co-Rec Volleyball
, TheregularseasonendsthisWednes­
day, September 27. Playoff pairings 
Will be posted on Thursday, September 
28. Teams should plan on playing Mon- 
ay, October 2.
All teams that are in the playoff race 
lould stop by the IM office, room 101
the gym, beginning this week.
Co-Rec Volleyball 
Make-Up Schedule
The make-up schedule for games 
anceled on Thursday, September 21 
be made up on Thursday, Septem- 
er 28.
6:45
Minors (Bl-4) Beta Tartan Hoopers 
vfc. Convex Sets, Ct.A.
Minors (Al-4) Wet Leather Congress 
vb. PKT Smack, Ct. B.
Minors (A6-2) Mudge Volleyball vs. 
TX Tri Deit, Ct. C.
7:45
Intermediate (1-4) SAE-lron City vs. 
CCE Grads, Ct. C.
Majors (1-2) Rude Dogs vs. Dig Up, 
Ct. B.
PLAYOFFS WILL START ON MONDAY, 
OCTOBER 2.
Chess
The 1995 Intramural chess sched­
ules are out. All teams should pick up 
the schedules early this week as games 
begin this week.
IM Golf Tournament
Sunday, October 1, is the date of the 
Carnegie Mellon Intramural Golf Tour­
nament. Participants do not need to 
pre-register. The event will take place 
at the Schenley Golf Course. Tee-off 
times are from 7 am on, and if you want 
a tee-time you can call 622-6959 and 
indicate that your are playing in the CMU Intramural Tournament: Green 
Fees are $9 and club rentals fees are 
$6. All teams and individuals are re­
minded to bring signed score cards to 
the intramural Office the following day. 
Only those scorecards turned into the 
Intramural Office will go toward team 
and individual champions.
IM Cross Country Meet
The Intramural cross country meet 
will take place on Wednesday, October 
4 at 4:30 pm. Individuals and teams 
should meet at the bottom of Flagstaff 
Hill. The 1.9 mile course will begin at 
the bottom of Flagstaff and procede 
through Schenley Park trails. All partici­
pants can sign up the day of the event. 
If you have any questions you can call 
IM Director Mike Mastroianni in the 
intramural office (x8-2214).
Soccer Officials
Intramural soccer officials are needed 
for the upcoming IM soccer season. 
Interested workstudy and non-workstudy 
students should call Mike Mastroianni 
(X8-2214).
Triathlon
The ninth annual CMU Triathlon was 
an overwhelming success this year. 
There was a total of 130 CMU and non- 
CMU participants in male, female, and 
team categories.
The CMU male individual winner in 
the 15-39 age group was Kirke Framke 
of Theta XI, with Gary Shaffer and Gary 
Trendel finishing second and third place, 
respectively. Despite the rain, Framke 
set a course record with a time of 
0:49.40 for the 500-yard swim, 10- 
mile bike, and the 5K run.
In the 40-49 age group, Randy Bryant 
took first, and Andy Huber was second. 
CMU alumnus Jimmy Goldman tookthe 
Master 50+ category again forthe ninth 
year in a row.
For the women in the 15-39 age 
group, Michelle Kondo took first with 
Mariam Diaz Boebes and Kagalwala 
Farhana finishing second and third. In 
the 40-49 age category, Robyn Smith 
was first and Kathy Whoiey was a close 
second.
The winning CMU Male Team was 
Brian August, Mike Foster, and Eric 
Vogel. The winning CMU Coed Team 
was Aaron Binkley, Holly Wasilowski, 
and George Chow. Next year’s Triathlon 
date is September 15,1996. Get your 
teams and mark your categories.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
ARE YOU A TWIN?
Join Pitt Twin Study 
Healthy twins ages 18-27 may qualify 
Earn over $80 each 
Call 624-9106
first contend with two rounds of playoffs. The 
first round could be a best of five series against 
the upsurge Seattle Mariners, in which Randy 
Johnson would appear at least twice.
Not only is Johnson the most feared pitcher 
in the game (he is on a pace this year which will 
give him the highest ratio of strikeouts per
Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
As the playoffs draw closer, I am increas­
ingly hearing the typical baseball debates 
about who will win the World Series.
Of course, the common consensus ap­
pears to be the mighty Indians, who over 
the course of the season have given the 
appearance that they have virtually no 
major flaws. They have three starting pitch­
ers with double-digit wins, the premier 
closer in baseball, and an offense which 
features seven of the starting nine hitting 
over .300, not to mention the most feared 
slugger outside of Chicago — Albert Belle. 
But before you jump on the Cleveland World 
Championship bandwagon, take into ac­
count the following discussion.
Before the Tribe even has a chance to 
contend for a championship, they mustFrancine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
nine innings ever) but he is also a left-hander 
— something which still gives the Indians’ 
lineup fits. Or they could still face slumping 
California which would throw three lefties 
against them in the same series.
Even if they do make it past the first round, 
they will still have to play the second round 
without the home-field advantage. Since the 
new playoff system has not incorporated the 
basic concept of “the best team gets home 
field advantage,” the Tribe is already predes­
tined to play more games on the road in 
October.
For the purpose of discussion, let’s sup­
pose that they make it past 40,000 
noisy Red Sox fans, Mo Vaughn, 
Roger Clemens, 50,000 psy­
chotic Yankee fans, Don 
Mattingly, or whatever else may 
emerge from the either side of the 
American League playoffs. They 
will then be pitted against this writer’s 
pre-season, mid-season, and post-sea­
son pick of the eventual National League 
Champions — the Cincinnati Reds.
An all-Ohio World Series — who will win? 
Conventional wisdom says the Indians, for on 
paper they have the superior talent, but be­
fore betting a year’s worth of CMU tuition, 
let’s look at this possible matchup at a more 
detailed level.
Please see BASEBALL, page 12
"THE MOST EXHILARATING AMERICAN MOVIE SINCE 'PULP FICTION'!"
-Stephen Färber, MOVIELINE
ResLifc lsaroe 
hspcy Mtc WcyM 
CcT’iTroeLc 
i’ Mtc •coTg 
yDbvU 5DkU IbwnvU 
dbwd-Om ÍOJ3 
7On wm Oscar 
mO9kmw5kOmgR
-Rod Lurie, KMPC-7I0
ResLifc lsaroe 
acfspcTy o lsffcT 
CcT’iTroeLcg 
pwm ywm5 db75ÍI 
NÍbmdU 7kÍ9E 
KkdbO km5bnKkbAU 
wmd DbwdÍkmbUgR
-Stephen Saban, DETAILS
RMtc WfoLlcyME riyM 
,sLlca Lirca• 
se ohcyg 
esLifc lsaroe 
sy oy hiia oy 
ytc sy WcoSMs’Sf- 
oea MtoMvy oy 
hiia oy sM hcMygR
-Patrick Stoner, PBS FUCKS
ResLifc lsaroe 
se Mtc WcyM 
CcT’iTroeLc 
i’ tcT LoTccTg
o Vwum5I km-IOun-7wJb 
7wNÍb 7On Oun 5k9b(R
-Bruce Williamson, PLAYBOY
iSMyMoeaseh 
LsecroMsL 
ceMcTMoserceMg 
aievM rsyy sMgR
-Paul Wunder, WBAI
ResLifc lsaroe 
sy acpsiSyf• 
acfsLsiSyg
s5 kU Dbn NbU5 
)bn7On9wmJbgR
-George Pennachio, KFMB-TV
RiSMTohciSyf• 
ceMcTMoseseh 
oea CTipiLoMspcgg 
’See•E ytiLlseh 
oea ,sLlcaf• 
CoLcag esLifc 
lsaroe acfspcTy 
o acfsLsiSyf• 
,sMM• oea 
LoCMspoMseh 
CcT’iTroeLcgR
- Bill Diehl, ABC RADIO NETWORK.
Rlsaroe sy McTTs’sLg 
opcT• ’See• ’sfr 
fslcf• Mi coTe 
esLifc lsaroe 
oe iyLoT 
eirseoMsiegR
-Jeff Craig, SIXTY SECOND PREVIEW
NICOLE KIDMAN
TO DIE FOR
All she wonted was a little attention.
COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents 
In Association With RANK FILM DISTRIBUTORS A LAURA ZISKIN Production A Film By GUS VAN SANT starring: NICOLE KIDMAN "TO DIE FOR" JOAQUIN PHOENIX and MATT DILLON musby kowwG Mmpyow 
“abnd”laAhgwoBEow TAPLIN and JOSEPH M.CARACCIOLO VMJOYCE MAYNARD saiEENPlti BUCK HENRY
“abnd”¦SmoOjo ZISKIN 0IRECTi?GUS VAN SANT I VgiiiaiMDKti FUTURE S^-jjDISTRIBUTED THROUGH SONY PICTURES RELEASING -----------—

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Columnists bemoan football’s current problems
Actions of Cowboys’ owner 
causes headaches for NFL
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Charnoubi
If Jerry Jones had any friends 
in the NFL, he has lost them now. 
Jerry Jones, the owner of the 
Dallas Cowboys and Texas Sta­
dium, has caused enough contro­
versy in the past month, that he 
would have made the incumbent 
maverick-owner, A1 Davis, proud.
Jerry Jones has signed a num­
ber of independent deals outside 
of the NFL to promote the Cow­
boys.
The NFL, which has a revenue- 
sharing system under which all 
the teams divide licensing royal­
ties evenly, retaliated by sending 
Jones, the Cowboys, and Texas 
Stadium to court.
Ever since the NFL was formed 
back in 1920, the teams would 
share their profits. This helped to 
keep markets in big cities from 
getting too rich, and markets in 
small areas from running out of 
money. The NFL has certain 
sponsors for which all 30 teams 
have to refrain from dealing with 
the competition of these spon­
sors.
One of the NFL’s long-lasting 
sponsors is the Coca-Cola Com­
pany. When Jerry Jones signed a 
deal with Pepsi to only serve Pepsi 
products at Texas Stadium, it 
clearly violated the contract the 
NFL has with Coke.
A couple of weeks later, Jones 
came to an agreement with Nike 
to officially sponsor them by basi­
cally repainting all of Texas Sta­
dium with Nike slogans like “Just 
Do It” and the trademarked 
“Swoosh.”
This violated the agreement 
that NFL Properties, the league’s 
billion-per-year marketing 
arm, had with a number of mer­
chandise companies including 
Apex, an apparel company. Jones 
was also reportedly about to sign 
an independent deal with Ameri­
can Express.
Jones complains that last year 
the Cowboys merchandise 
brought in about 25 percent of all 
revenues and believes that he 
deserves more than a l/30th 
share, which amounts to about
$3.5 million.
The league estimates the value 
of each of Jones’s deals around 
$2.5 million a year, Pepsi for 10 
years and Nike for seven. Only 
Jerry Jones and the Cowboys will 
ever see that money.
The league had a meeting 
shortly after the Nike deal, and 
NFL Properties, with the ap­
proval of the 29 other team own­
ers, filed a $300 million dollar 
suit against the Cowboys that 
would prohibit them from sign­
ing any additional deals that un­
dermine existing NFL sponsor­
ship or licensing contracts.
the state of Texas in general, 
and of the city of Dallas in par­
ticular.”
They claim that the NFL made 
the Cowboys what they are, and 
as a member of the NFL they 
must abide by its rules.
“I’ll win and will easily be 
able to defend any accusations,” 
Jones told a television station. 
“They’ve never seen my agree­
ments. They really don’t know 
what they consist of. And cer­
tainly anything I’ve done has 
been within the rules.”
The way to look at this situa­
tion is either to consider the
College football seems 
troubled by money; crime
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
What’s happening to college 
football? Lately, all we hear 
about are student-athletes sign­
ing with professional agents,
college teams going on probation, 
and the terms ex-football player 
and ex-con are becoming synony­
mous.
Finding good things about col­
lege football is like trying to find 
the cliché needle in a haystack.
At least it must seem that way 
to most fans. The only stories 
broadcast by the media are how 
team A racked up 77 points on 
team B, whose coach is bed-rid­
den, what team was sanctioned, 
and how many Nebraska players 
were arrested, arraigned, or sim­
ply suspected of crimes this week.
It is difficult for even 
a dedicated sports fan 
to find the positive in 
the midst of the on­
slaught of bad press. 
Despite their best ef­
forts, many of college 
football’s brightest 
points have gone unno­
ticed.
Colorado’s quarter­
back Koy Detmer and 
first-year head coach 
Rick Neuheisel are a 
class act. Detmer 
should probably win 
the Heisman this year, 
but he may be too good. 
Detmer is so good that 
he broke his own school 
passing record, throw­
ing for 426 yards, but 
he barely played into 
the third quarter.
After shining in 
games three years ago 
as a freshman, rather
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Staff
than transfer, Detmer patiently 
waited until this year to start, 
again. Neuheisel, a rookie coacEi; 
could guide this team to a naT; 
tional championship. MiM
Joe Paterno is a coach that yoUi 
don’t hear much about because 
he is healthy, conservative, and 
doesn’t run up the score on oppos- 
ingteams. Paterno makes a small, 
tasteful appearance on Burger' 
King cups, but is not screaming, 
“Look, I’m famous, buy my stufjfl” 
There is no Joe Paterno video 
game, he does not have a shoe 
contract, and Joe does not gua'F-1 
antee wins over opposing ball 
clubs. Nevertheless, Penn State 
owns the nation’s longest will-1 
ning streak.
Winning seems to be the only, 
thing that Oregon does. In spijtgi 
of being ridiculed about their 
uniforms, mascot, and team, the 
Oregon Ducks are the defending' 
Pac-10 champions. What sort'of1 
respect do the Ducks get? Before 
their September 16 upset over 
UCLA, four teams in the Pac-10 
were ranked higher than the ugru 
defeated Ducks. -,urn
Despite this, the Ducks mighfci 
never get the respect they de­
serve until they do something that - 
all the other big schools do: gj&f 
put on probation.
Just why is it that the Ing’ 
schools get all the press? Small 
schools like Grambling can ha^e 
their coach break records and 
basically go unnoticed, while the 
only thing that keeps the Dm- 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 12 
M
In 1989, Jerry Jones paid $140 
million for the Cowboys and Texas 
Stadium. Doubling that and add­
ing comerback Deion Sanders’ 
new lucrative contract equals 
what Jones will have to pay if he 
loses in court.
“The National Football League 
has very clear-cut ways of doing 
business which has distinguished 
it from all other leagues and made 
it as great as it is,” said Paul 
Tagliabue league commissioner. 
“It’s a philosophy and a commit­
ment to do business in a certain 
way that’s been very successful. 
That’s what it’s about. When you 
have a successful philosophy 
which has worked for 76 and a 
half years, you hold it pretty sa­
cred.”
The league claims that “... as a 
direct result of membership in 
the NFL, the Dallas Cowboys 
have become a virtual symbol of
NFL as either one big company 
working as a whole or to con­
sider it as a collection of smaller 
companies competing with each 
other in any way possible.
I foresee one of two things 
happening. Either Jones will 
lose in court, causing him to go 
into debt that he should be able 
to pay off eventually, or Jones 
will win, causing the NFL to 
completely redefine the way it’s 
run, and having teams compete 
not only on the gridiron but also 
in the consumer world.
Personally, I hope Jones loses; 
the NFL is fine how it is. Why 
mess with perfection?
Steve Charnoubi is a sopho­
more who will reveal his own 
secret endorsement deals next 
week. He will then be sued by the 
NFL for breaking his fictional, 
million-dollar contract.
Altera Corporation, located in 
the heart of Silicon Valley in 
beautiful Northern California, 
has set the pace from the 
start in high-performance, high 
density programmable logic 
devices and associated 
computer-aided engineering 
(CAE) logic development tools. 
We're growing and have 
plenty of seats still available 
for EE/CS graduates.
We will be conducting on 
campus interviews Thursday 
and Friday October 5 & 6.
Or you may also send a 
resume to: Altera Corporation, 
Human Resources, College - 
MS 1101, Attn: Heelie Drury, 
2610 Orchard Parkway,
San Jose, CA 95134-2020.
Fax: (408) 435-5065.
World Wide Web Address: 
http://www.altera.com. E-mail: 
hdrury@altera.com. An equal 
opportunity employer.
-yu.
Mm
S Y S T !¦: M S O P P O R T I’ N I T I \i
There Is Another Choice!
In a sea of investment banking and consulting firms, we stand apart.
We won’t burn you out. We won’t pigeonhole you. The Prudential’s Advanced 
Management Development Program (AMDP) is a super-competitive, full-tilt 
management training program designed to create the next generation of 
Information Systems executives.
You'll rotate through a number of challenging assignments within our family of 
financial services businesses, helping to analyze our systems and processes. You’ll 
receive continuing education opportunities and the support you expect for your 
long-term commitment.
AMDP will push your limits, stretch your knowledge and expand your 
understanding of yourself and your skills. There is no other program like it.
Check your Career Services Office for our detailed CD-ROM presentation, or 
call 800-281-AMDP for a copy while supplies last. We will be on campus 
October 19 & 20 to recruit AMDP candidates who have a strong information 
systems background. Be sure to submit your resume to Career Services by 
October 4 if you wish to be considered. We are an equal opportunity employer.
ThePrudential*>
ì

---------------------------------------------------

SVolu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Two Carnegie Mellon athletes were 
gamed Athlete of the Week for their 
ylspectlve sports this past week by the 
[ University Athletic Association.
É
unior Becky Buchheit was named 
UAA’s Female Cross Country Run- 
rf&r-of-the-Week for her accomplish- 
ïménts this past week.
¡SsBuchheit placed fifth at the Indiana 
’.University of Pennsylvania Invitational 
•vyHfii her 19:16 time. She placed first 
for the Tartans, contributing towards 
rpIU’s third-place finish behind Slip- 
! pery Rock University and IUP.
I*%his is Buchheit's second award this
'•5Vtfreshman Harry Ulrich was named 
j tli£ UAA’s Men’s Soccer Player-of-the- 
| Wjbekfortallying 10 points in CMU’s 5- 
j 2 win over Maryville College and the 4- 
10 win over the University of Chicago.
| Baseball split a double header Satur- 
| day against Franciscan University, win- 
[ ning the first game 10-8, but falling in 
i the second 3-13.
i In the first game, freshman pitcher 
i Jon Mayes got the win, and sophomore 
¡Jay McCormack got the save, 
i CMU was led by freshman Scott Kepp 
and sophomore Jon Zubiller, who each 
scored two runs. In the second game 
'McCormack had two RBIs, and two 
•sitblen bases to lead the team.
‘ ¿¿Last weekend CMU played a tough 
double header against Lockhaven 
Clearfield, losing both games. Kepp, 
^McCormack, Zubiller and sophomore 
Brian White led the team with two hits 
¡each.S
CMU battles Lockhaven again next 
jturday to finish the fall season. The 
jmible header will be played at home 
parting at 1 pm In Mellon Park.
|j|pMU’s Rugby Club challenged top- 
ranked Penn State University's B-team 
jjfs pastweekend and completely domi- 
¡naed the match-up, ending it 22-0. 
Jgftier Rocha, juniorChris Winston, Brad 
;l±awrence and Mike Keller all had car­
ies which resulted in points for the 
Squad.
¡highlights included the ejection of an 
¡official for drunken incompetence, and 
¡a trip to the hospital for a Penn State 
player who knocked himself uncon­
scious while attempting to tackle se­
nior Shawn Ragiel during an impressive 
run.
Compiled by 
PAUL BOOTHE 
& RICK RIKOSKI
Media ignores good 
in college football
FOOTBALL, from page 11
sion I schools off television is probation. As long as 
television continues to hold the big dollars, the big bad 
schools will be all that we see.
How important is television? Nike recently signed a 
seven-year contract with Michigan giving them one 
million dollars a year in sports equipment plus scholar­
ship money. All this just to put a Nike swoosh that can 
be seen on TV on the Michigan uniform.
Big school players can go on wearing trademarks on 
television while small school guys that pro scouts drool 
over like Steve McNair can go entirely unnoticed until 
they break a record.
By all pro-scouts’ best judgments, Simeon Rice should 
be driving expensive cars, sleeping in six days a week, 
and playing on Sundays this year.
Instead, he’s still playing college ball on Saturdays, 
going to classes, and probably walks to them, too.
Rice, the Big-Ten’s all-time sack leader, stayed to 
help the program, a rare act of loyalty for any of the 
supposed role models that we hear about. Rice is an 
outstanding model to look up to.
His actions can be summed up as, “I know that if I can 
help out my school, get my degree, and play football this 
Saturday, I’ll be pretty happy too.”
Chris Cannon is pretty darn happy that he can be a 
sophomore computer science major and play for his 
intramural football team, the 69’ers. If only he was put 
on probation, maybe he could get more media attention. 
Hey, he’s now only 1,750yards off the IM rushing record.
Women’s soccer dominates Hiram
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Sophomore forward Lauren DeRosset 
scored two goals in Friday night’s game 
against Catholic University.
SHUTOUT, from page 9
In the second half, CMU again held complete control of the ball i 
they kept pressuring the Catholic defensive squad. Catholic began 
kicking the ball out of bounds every time they were given a chance in 
an attempt to stop the pace for a moment. CMU was quite comfortable 
with this arrangement, because it allowed the team to use their 
powerful corner-kick maneuvers.
The final goal of the game came from such a comer kick, as Hogan 
shot from the corner across the front of the goal. The ball never touched 
the ground as Umeda did a jumping kick and neatly placed the ball in 
the net around the post.
Team co-captains Poisson and senior midfielder Maria Casella were 
very pleased with the team’s performance. Casella said, “It was an all- 
around good game. We basically stuck with the basics that [Coach Ann 
Haggerty] has been trying to teach us all year:’’ _
Unfortunately, the team has not been doing well in the UAA, losing 
both match-ups in overtime. Poisson said that should “never happen 
again. We shouldn’t have*lost those matches [Case Western and 
Chicago], because we totally outplayed them.”
The team continued its streak yesterday at their away match-up 
against Hiram College. When the clock ran down at the end of the 
second half, the score stood at 4-0.
Poisson scored two goals, and Umeda and Hogan each scored one 
apiece.
Poisson said, “Hiram was a definite confidence booster, definitely a 
good game to get down to the basics. It was a good game to have under 
our belts, especially with the big games coming up this weekend.”
The Tartans will have a week of hard practice as they prepare to host 
UAA rivals Brandeis on Friday at 8 pm and University of Rochester 
Sunday at 3:30 pm.
“The UAA is always tough,” said Poisson. “There’s never a definite 
winner going in. It’ll be a battle all the way to the end. We’ll be 
extremely motivated, and we’ll be facing our toughest competition.”
Will the World Series leave the state of Ohio this season?
BASEBALL, from page 10
The bench: What do names 
such as Mickey Hatcher, Kurt 
Bevaqcua, Billy Bean, Mark 
Lemke, Jerry Willard, etc. have 
in common? They were all bench 
players who wound up having a 
significant effect on the success 
in the posts9eason of their re­
spective teams.
In a seven-game series, the 
key is often not which team has 
more power hitters in the heart 
of the lineup, but who can put 
out the more formidable pinch 
hitter in the key late inning situ­
ations, once pitching moves have 
been made.
The Reds have catered to this 
problem all season, since they 
play without the designated hit­
ter, and thus have developed the 
deepest bench in all of baseball. 
Players who would have been 
starters on most other major 
league teams, find themselves 
riding the pine in Cincinnati.
It was players such as Jerome 
Walton, Lenny Harris, Mark 
Lewis, Mariano Duncan, Eric 
Anthony, Brian Hunter, and 
Eddie Taubenese who kept the 
Reds above the pack despite all
the serious injuries they in­
curred to starters throughout 
the year.
Though the Indians’ bench is 
formidable, they clearly never 
had an incentive to develop a 
strong bench. Not only do they 
play with the DH (which elimi­
nates the need for double 
switches), but most of their start­
ers were never out of the lineup 
for any extended period.
Ruben Amaro, Wayne Kirby, 
Alvaro Espinoza and the likes 
aren’t bad, but I’ll take my 
chances on former All-Stars such 
as Duncan.
Another key aspect of success 
in the post-season is the talent 
of the relief staff. The compari­
son is not as black and white 
between the two teams, as was 
the case with the bench, but not 
only do the Reds have a deeper 
pen, but it is more talented.
By going to a bullpen-by-com- 
mittee this year, most of the 
arms are still fairly fresh, yet in 
full stride. Hector Carrassco, Jeff 
Brantley, Mike Jackson, Xavier 
Hernandez and Chuck McElroy 
all not only throw in the mid 90s 
but have experience as closers.
The Indians counter with Eric 
Plunk, Paul Assenmacher, Julian 
Tavarez, Alan Embree, and the 
dominant (but tiring) Jose Mesa. 
Though a bit better balanced than 
the Reds’ relief corps, the talent 
just doesn’t compare. In the late 
innings, this could cost the Indi­
ans.
Finally, possibly the most key 
factoris experience. Notonly have 
the majority of the Indians play­
ers never been to the post-season 
(Eddie Murray and Orel 
Hershisher aside), but they are 
also led by a manager (Mike
Hargrove) who has never seen 
the lighter side of fall baseball.
The Reds, meanwhile, counter 
with a team that features a num­
ber of players who have seen post 
season play (Ron Gant, Brantley, 
Dareen Lewis, John Smiley) but 
they are also led by possibly the 
greatest managerial mind‘of the 
past two decades in Davey 
Johnson.
It is no coincidence that any 
team Johnson ever managed has 
been a winner. He not only has a 
knack for building extremely well- 
balanced teams, but also knows
how to get the best out of each 
player.
As one can see, a World Series 
trophy in Cleveland is not a sure 
bet. In the October madness of 
baseball, sensibility goes out the 
window and the unexplainable 
takes center stage.
Nevertheless, we all know the 
cliché “Anything can happen,” 
and a Seattle vs. Houston indoor 
World Series would be a sight to 
see.
Anuj Gupta is a senior policy 
and management major.
r
Tired of your parents 
asking you to let them 
know everything that’s 
going on at school?
Give them what they want.
Send them a subscription
90 THE TARTAN.
SYES! I would like a subscription to The TARTAN.
Please indicate the type of subscription you are interested i
? first class full year (24 issues) $65.00
? first class half year (12 issues) $35.00
? third class full year (24 issues) $50.00
? third class half year (12 issues) $30.00 
CH Overseas add $5.00
'“I
Name
Address .
City.StateZip_
L
Country___________________________________________
Please detach and return with check or money order payable to:
The Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890, USAJ
Oakland/Shadyside 
4Ó43 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring. ¦ 
Experienced pizza makers needed.
682-7272
PAPA
I-------------------------T
One 16" Extra 
Large One Topping
95
Additional loppings $1.00 each Not valid with any other coupon Valid only at participating stores
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
'T-----------------------
I 10"0ne Topping 
I & 2 Cokesnr8! $5”' $7
One 14" Large 
One Topping & An I 
I Order of Breadsticks I 
I éh V99 1
+ Tax
Additional toppings $1.00 each | |Mo?lS» 1 8p*$ I AddIli°"?1 l0.PPinSs ?' 00 “ch
Not valid with any other coupon .
.1.I
MUUIIIUI1UI lUfjpiuyi S> I .W cui.il -Not valid with any other coupon I
Valid only a) participating stores I I V°lid “"V Participating 5tore5 |^ Valid only at participating stores |

---------------------------------------------------

25 September 1995Volume SO, Issue 4The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Eric Salzman takes a leap In Queenstown, New Zealand.
Bungy jumping delivers 
ultimate adrenaline rush
Photos courtesy of Big White Video
By ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Diversions Editor
I had heard jokes that people bungy jump as 
soon as they get off the plane in New Zealand — 
jokes, I thought. Sure enough, though, the woman 
at customs first asked to see my passport and 
then asked if I was goingto go bungy jumping. It 
wasn’t even a question in my mind.
Bungy jumping began in Queenstown, New 
Zealand, thanks to amannamedA.J. Hackett. In 
Queenstown, Hackett is an absolute legend.
It is not possible to go into a store, restaurant, 
bar, or club without seeing something about 
Hackett or bungy jumping.
In Queenstown, there are three jumps, all of 
which are off bridges over the Shotover River. 
One ofthe jumps is 47 meters high—it is the first 
in the world started by Hackett himself. Another 
is Hackett’s other Queenstown setup, a 72-meter 
high jump.
Then there is the pipeline. Named for the 
pipeline it is near, the third bungy jump in 
Queenstown is 102 meters high — the second 
highest land-based bungy in the world (second 
only to a jump in South Africa).
I jumped off the pipeline: 102 meters high; 120 
kilometers per hour. I paid over 100 dollars for an 
event that would take under five seconds; still, I 
did get the t-shirt and video.
For some reason, when I woke up in the morn­
ing and remembered that I was going to jump off 
a bridge over 100 meters high, I wasn’t nervous. 
When I took the four wheel drive out to the 
mountains, I wasn’t nervous. When I walked out 
onto the three meter-wide, 102 meter-high bridge,
I wasn’t nervous. When I got out onto the little 
square platform and looked into the mass of 
nothing that I was about to leap into, I was 
freaked out of my skull.
Since I had the video camera, all of my friends 
went first so that I could tape their jumps. As I 
was preparing for my jump, they yelled to me 
from below.
I sat in something that resembled a dentist’s 
chair as these guys put a towel around my legs 
and a hook onto the towel. Then they did some 
pressure stuff to the chord, but believe me, there 
was not a whole lot of preparation involved.
“Can I jump without a countdown?” I asked 1 
them. I didn’t want anyone telling me at what 
point I must go. They were more than pleased to 
let me go on my own.
Once hooked in, I had to hobble my way out 
onto the platform. The platform was maybe two 
feet square and extended off the bridge. There 
was no where to go but forward — forward meant 
air, mountains, and ground.
The fear ofthe bungy jump is not one of hitting 
the ground. The whole thing is too safe to worry 
about a real accident.
The fear is of the speed, the helplessness, and 
the pressure against the body. I felt the fear — 
the fear of falling so fast that I thought my 
eyelids might be pulled off my face.
I hobbled onto the platform with the intention 
of doing a most beautiful leaping swan dive as 
most of my friends had done before me.
Then my legs must have grown eyes and sur­
veyed what they were about to force the rest of 
my body into.
Please see BUNGY, page L3
T TT TT1 T SHBEI DHU 03 BOH El
UH.Hi
JUMP!
Adventure sports 
take off at CMU
Freestyle rollerblading Is becoming the hottest thrill for many CMU students.
By SHARMELA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The general consensus is that the typical CMU student is a meek book-worm, 
chained to her or his computer: Judging from student participation in adventure 
sports, looks can be deceiving.
It seems that most of our peers have a closet wild side, that they are awaiting 
the chance to shed their quiet demeanor. In order to relieve the stresses that 
accompany college life, many students at Carnegie Mellon turn to outdoor activi­
ties from mountain climbing and kayaking to bike racing and paintball. These 
sports help them forget the monotony of tests, projects, and grades.
“There are many recognized clubs on campus that help support these type of 
activities,” said Michael Chang, a senior electrical and computer engineering 
major and president of the Explorer’s Club. This organization fosters the adven­
turer in all of us.
The Explorer’s Club offers students a chance to participate in daring sports such 
as rock climbing and kayaking, whether you’re an experienced pro or a novice.
“While we usually focus on these two [sports], many people have been showing 
an interest in skydiving,” said Chang. “So we might be branching out in that area,” 
he added.
The Explorer’s Club provides the equipment and training for climbers and 
kayakers who are interested in learning new things or just finding others who 
share a passion for such activities.
Please see ADVENTURE, page L3This rollerblade artist proves that the laws of gravity don’t always hold true.It’s absolutely fantastic!
Michael Howard/Tartan Photo Staff

---------------------------------------------------

BuTmDiu olu Jr’ CmeEu9 Li vTmeM W49lrD9 oluy
Find Your Future Online
pay attention to life ... share what you find ... make noise ... move on
to detect and serve the new leaders of this world http://www.monster.com/roar/Roar.html
olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Pittsburgh coffee houses add rich, tasty flavor to student life
¡By PAUL TABACHNECK
*Tàrtan Staffwriter
t -v
t Whether it’s used for a stimulant, a 
»conversation refreshment, or just a treat 
ito warm oneself from the cold, coffee has 
tfor'ged itself a place in today’s culture as 
•one of the more popular beverages. And
kitchen appliances dangling from the 
ceiling), the original Beehive has a dis­
tinctive atmosphere which has made it a 
popular hangout with high school to 
college age people, as well as some ofthe 
adults who recall their java junkie days.
After the phrase “Beehive Buzz” had 
become a local catch-phrase, the indus-
The coffee itself is of pretty dam good 
quality, with strong buzz-centric 
espresso drinks, and the service is usu­
ally pretty keen.
The Coffee Tree Roasters —
This is one of the best cups of coffee 
around. The house coffee at this
statements posted everywhere on the 
importance of avoiding AIDS.
They serve excellent food there, too — 
every night a different gourmet menu
Kvhy not? Coffee is, after all, the cheap- trious owners of the ’Hive decided to place isn’t a blend, and it isn’t
i .1 j _ ff__j;_____________  r _ — rr ¦  „ «1 4-Un 4*Ua^. J n A ^« nt- TTin /Y*n PaIiiwiKi nn nifVi or ___ t trail laocfrest^and most effective source of caffeine, remodel the then defunct King’s Court 
'For the price of a 12-pack 
;of' soda, you can get a 
jpoUnd of coffee beans — 
just grind ’em up and add 
fw&ter, and you could 
Tn&ke at least 8 pots (at 8 
•clips apiece) with that 
’amount!
* ‘Now, when I was a 
•tyke, coffee was just not 
^something kids drank. I 
¡would pull out a 
jstyrofoam cup, put some 
|j^ya in, add a lot of milk,
|aM all of the adults 
would gawk at me, like I II BL£Lta||lj
had just poured myself a [H 
huge cup of molten 
death-lava. But times |f 
have changed, and cof- 
icehouses have become I 
the non-alcoholic bar for 
people of all ages.
In the last couple of ||||
I years, there has been a¡hrige boom of coffee- „ VlnaetAgarwal/TartanPhotoStaff
: httuses, creating an ab- Coffee Tree Roasters serves up a good cup of coffee'
1 siird amount of java across the country. Theatre as their second location. This 
! Meed, we have become a Caffeine Na- place is very different from the original 
1 tflfin. In Pittsburgh, this business has because the Oakland market proved to 
v flourished to almost obscene proportions, differ from the South Side.
Columbian either — well, at least 
not every day. Run by a father-son 
team, the Coffee Tree is centered 
around the trade of beans which 
they roast in the store. The house 
coffee is rotational — every day 
there are two caffeinated coffees, 
and one decaf coffee. The coffees 
come from all over the world (their 
Mexican Custapec is the smooth­
est coffee I’ve ever tasted), and in 
the warmer seasons, one can treat 
oneself to a Froz-a-cino, which is 
kind of like a Cappuccino Slurpee.
Ignore the Baskin Robbins/Vie de France 
imitations. These guys had it first.
feehouse, restaurant, and bar combined. 
The saloon portion is in the basement. It 
is usually home to some music event, 
either bar rock, alternative, or acoustic.
The upstairs 
sometimes has mu­
sic as well, but it also 
has a nifty elevated 
proscenium stage 
that can be (and of­
ten is) used for 
plays. The menu 
ranges from nice 
pasta dishes to 
crude greasy bar 
food, and the prices 
are OK too. Look for 
this place’s events in 
all the local calen­
dars.
< with new cafés popping up all over the 
' pl&ce. Here’s a sampling of the better 
\ oñes:
There is, for instance, a non-smoking 
room, which is called the “Beehive Tea 
Room,” which was once a cereal bar. 
There is also a room that has a lot of 
' fThe Beehive—Pittsburgh’s premiere sleek-looking black tables that used to 
v coffeehouse, the Beehive first opened in be a dingy-looking library-type room. 
' the South Side of the ’Burgh, run by two They just added a pinball room, and 
\ iri'trepid friends, who just wanted to ere- movies are showing all the time, most of
< ate a cool place to hang out in. With which you won’t usually get to catch at 
“beatnik art displays crammed every- the mainstream theatres before Disney
< where (you should see the variety of wipes ’em out.
Java Jeffs — I’ve had some of my 
best conversations here — in fact, I’ve 
probably spent too much time in this 
café. Located close to the edge of Squir­
rel Hill’s business district, Java Jeffs is 
run by an actual guy named Jeff and a 
motley crew of friendly employees who 
make terrific café mochas and even bet­
ter conversation. When they’re not serv­
ing people or cleaning tables, JJ’s em­
ployees have been known to sit out at 
one of the tables, breaking the barrier 
often felt between customer and cashier 
and allowing for a more relaxed atmo­
sphere. If you go in about three times, 
odds are they’ll know your name, or at 
least your face. Nice place, nice drinks, 
nice service.
SIP — This place is homey. Really 
homey. It’s so warm, peaceful, and cozy 
in there, you feel almost forced into 
comfort. At the same time, though, it’s 
really cool. Erotic art lines the walls of 
this tiny nook of Shadyside, and there 
are free condoms in the bathroom, with
The 61C Cafe Is a popular hangout for students and locals alike,
with excellent portions all around. It’s a 
perfect little spot for acoustic music and 
poetry readings, and the owners are 
always friendly and always working. I 
haven’t actually had the coffee here, but 
as good as the atmosphere is, it would be 
worth it to go even if the coffee was 
horrible.
61C Café — Named after the PAT bus 
route that passes by its doors, the 61C 
Café is an okay place to hang with pretty 
good coffee and stuff, and a really ultra­
cool deck outside that’s great to sit on 
when it’s warm outside because it makes 
you feel like you’re sipping coffee on a 
beachside boardwalk, only you’re not.
I like to go there with friends, and I 
think they let you smoke there (pretty 
rare for coffeehouses that operate in­
doors as well as out). Their drinks are 
good, but not especially great — I’ve 
never felt like the beverage was bad, but 
I never wanted to reorder anything. But 
it’s a cool place.
Luciano’s Coffeehouse & Bistro—
This place is different from any other 
coffeehouse around because it is a cof-
Café Mocha — If
I were to give you 
Café Mocha’s strongest point of exist­
ence, I’d have to say “location.” It’s not 
just a walk from campus — it’s practi­
cally on campus. It’s a cool place to study 
or talk — the background music is kept 
at a low lull, and you can definitely 
smoke there. The cookies and stuff are 
cheaper than at most places, and it’s 
really student-friendly.
If you’re going to a coffeehouse to get 
cheesecake — don’t. You can’t afford it. 
I know people that take out second mort­
gages to afford café cheesecake. Well, 
not really, but it is expensive.
Most places around here shop at USA 
Gourmet, so call them and you’ll get the 
stuff at an amazingly cheap rate. I know, 
I know, cheap isn’t trendy, but thick 
wallets are.
Anyhow, if you want to get coffee, 
you’ve got plenty of places to go to. Oh, 
and those places I didn’t mention — 
Starbucks, Barnes & Noble, Arabica. 
Those are chains. They’re boring. I went 
to D.C. once and saw amillion Starbucks, 
and they all looked the same.
If you want real atmosphere, check 
out any of the seven places listed above, 
and get your buzz off!
Student social interaction fails to represent cultural diversity at CMU
What’s up with that?
by Shiv Dewan
; ’“The student body is diverse” — so 
J we’re invariably told. But what differ- 
v epee does that make? If you or I were to 
; consider the people we know, how does 
j this diversity pan out? I bet that the 
J sfyiny happy people who posed for the 
; Tartan photograph on diversity prob- 
} afiy didn’t even know each other’s 
J names. That’s the point I’m trying to 
‘make: diversity is a non-issue if the
- opportunities it provides are ignored 
j; rather than harnessed and promoted.
I’m not suggesting you seek out five 
people from far and exotic lands with six 
syllable names that you can barely pro­
nounce and find out where they’ve been 
all your life. But I do believe that mak­
ing use of the opportunities to meet 
people who have had completely differ­
ent life experiences and views is within
the realm of the ostensible. __
Campus organizations and asso­
ciations that address the needs and ¦ ¦ 
interests of particular students are 
beneficial. Although it is not my 
intent to profess their virtues, I’m 
sure the people who utilize them 
would be happy to oblige. However, ™ 
when these organizations and the people 
we meet through them holistically de­
fine our social circle, we should step 
back and think where we might be want­
ing. There is, and will always be, the 
need to “hang out” with people like our­
selves; they make us feel secure, and 
that is understandable. This, combined 
with the incipient discomfort of meeting 
someone from a different culture or race, 
perpetuates segregated camps of idyllic 
social, cultural, religious, or racial unity 
amongst a mass of equivocal students. 
Life is tough without having to deal with
...diversity is a non-issue if the opportu­
nities it provides are ignored rather than 
harnessed and promoted.
someone who just doesn’t see it the same 
way.However, a university experience 
provides the latitude to open one’s 
mind,and to be exposed to sentiments 
that differ from one’s own, however un­
pleasant and trying they might be. Ex­
posure does not obligate one to agree 
with the expressed views, and this is 
perhaps the key point that needs to be 
made. Just because I saw Natural Born 
Killers doesn’t mean that I believe 
America is media-crazed and obsessed 
with violence. (And just because you 
sawPocahon-tas doesn’t mean you have
______________________ to believe that
she wasn’t 13, 
in which case, 
it would all be 
very illegal 
today). The
---------------------------------- need to expose
one’s self to 
different types of people and cultural 
groups may seem trivial, and more of a 
hassle than anything else (well, life just 
sucks, doesn’t it?), but it is increasingly 
important to understand where other 
people are coming from.
A university setting means you can 
make mistakes without taking risks — 
if you make a racial or cultural faux pas 
in the real world (as if CMU represents 
the utopian paradigm), you’re out of 
there, or worse still, you get beaten up. 
At college, on the other hand, you might 
be labeled ignorant, and people might 
hate you — but you, and hopefully they, 
will get over it. So go out there and 
offend someone. No, seriously, CMUs 
diversity provides an opportunity in i 
lifetime: to explore, question and per­
haps better understand a culture, race, 
religion, or social body with which you ; 
are not familiar. You never know. You | 
might learn a thing or two.
Shiv Dewan is a double major in CivE 
and EPP with a minor in environmental 
engineering ... and he’s outta here at the 
end ofthe semester..
The Monster Board Is An Eye Opener.
The Ultimate Career Site On The Web. 
Conduct a job search, post your resume, 
even apply on-line in minutes ... all free!
No Pen. No Paper. No Postage. Just sit back and click. 
What could be easier? Or more worthwhile?
ÏÏz
With The Monsters!
Crowdsuupb euuaua
At the PET Facility of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
we are conducting research studying how the brain carries out 
different functions. These include how the brain makes decisions, 
how the brain controls eye movements, and how the brain recalls 
information.
We use a new and exciting technique called Positron Emission 
Tomography, or PET for short. PET takes pictures of the brain after 
administering small amounts of radioactive drugs. These pictures 
can show how different parts of the human brain work.
PET image of brain activation 
from recalling a list of words
If you’re interested in volunteering for one of these research studies, 
we want to hear from you.
Participants are paid for their time. Call our Volunteer Coordinator 
for details: 
Louise Smith, RN 
The PET Facility at UPMC
(412) 647- 0717

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M »VU vut9uy’ue SddUkN
Columnist explores fear of feminism
Cracking the myth
by Amber Benezra
Why is the word “feminist” so scary? 
In our historical context the majority of 
people support equal rights for women, 
yet almost everyone is reluctant to iden­
tify with the feminists.
The stigma of the ultra-militant, man- 
bashing, lesbian (a stigma created and 
perpetuated by the media and by patri­
archal government) is prevalent and 
makes feminism unattractive to a lot of nism is nothing if not paradoxical.'
Young women often do not feel a con­
nection with feminism for a number a 
reasons. Some don’t like to be labeled, 
some take the current status of women 
as good enough, or at least, better than 
before, not thinking that we are entitled 
to the same rights as men. Some feel a 
generation gap and distance from femi­
nists of the 1970s, who were primarily 
concerned with the passage of the ERA 
(Equal Rights Amendment). Basic con­
sciousness raising for all women just 
does not exist in this society, where 
women in bikinis sell everything from 
cars to beer, and the highest paid women 
are supermodels.
There are also some problems within 
feminism that contributed to the back­
lash that began in the 1980s and contin­
ues today.
As author Juliet Mitchell said, “Femi-
In
A rightward shift in the political climate has 
made things more difficult, and general back­
lash has striken feminism with a crisis of rightward shift in 
confidence.
young women today. the ’70s, the main objective of feminists
Everyone has a personally meaning- was sex solidarity. They founded the 
ful definition for 
feminism. The dic­
tionary says, “the 
doctrine advocating 
that social and po­
litical rights of 
women be equal to 
those possessed by 
men.” That is a doc- 
trine that all men 
and women alike should live by.
To me, feminism equals anti-sexism.
So how did it all get so messed up? Why 
do social commentaries so often say we 
are in the age of “post-feminism?”
Sexism has not disappeared; women 
are still the victims of sexual, domestic, 
economic, social, and political violence, 
so why doesn’t everyone call himself or 
herself a feminist?
In a 1990 poll of female undergradu­
ates from across the nation, 90 percent 
agreed that men and women should re­
ceive equal pay for equal work, 93 per­
cent said that women want equality with 
men, ninety percent believe that sexism 
still exists, yet only 16percent said that
nist movement and are just now being 
addressed.
Mitchell comments, “There is an ele­
ment of inevitability or predictability in 
any fragmentation that follows a united 
front of women, for as much as women 
have common cause in gender issues, 
they are differentiated by political and 
cultural and sexual loyalties, and by 
racial, class, and ethnic identities which 
inform their experience of gender itself.” 
Feminism inherently harbors contra­
dictions because it must function within 
patriarchy while trying to break it down.
Although the movement was con­
structed on the basis of gender con­
sciousness, feminism is working for the 
elimination of gender roles. While striv­
ing for individual freedoms, we are also 
supposed to commit to sex solidarity.
Most confusing is the fact that we are 
attempting to prove that women are as 
capable and fundamentally the same as 
men, while celebrating the differences 
in male and female 
natures simulta­
neously.
The future of femi­
nism is unclear. A
they were definitely feminists.
women’s movement on the assumption 
that all women shared some gender- 
specific identity, one that could be de­
rived from economic oppression, com­
mercial exploitation, legal discrimina­
tion, a feeling of inadequacy, and nar­
row horizons.
This proved to be problematic because 
not all women have the same experi­
ences. As a privileged white American, 
I cannot say I suffer the same kind of 
discrimination as a woman in a Muslim 
country. I also cannot say that my 
struggle is the same struggle of lesbi­
ans, welfare mothers, and women of 
color.
For many years, the issues of these 
women were marginalized in the femi-
CMU students get out into outdoors
the political climate 
has made things 
' more difficult, and 
general backlash 
has stricken feminism with a crisis of 
confidence.
To make real social change, women 
must stop the debate over the impor­
tance of different issues and give all 
women equal validity and power.
The generation gap must be healed; 
new feminists must learn from early 
second-wave feminists.
Most of all, young people must realize 
that the problems of injustice, inequal­
ity, and discrimination still exist and 
that it is the responsibility of the new 
generations to put social stigmas aside 
and all be feminists.
Amber Benezra is a senior English ma­
jor who works at the Women’s Center.
Microsoft value falls
Focused on the Internet
by Kenton Shaver
The URL of the week is http:// 
nytsyn.com/live/News3, the “Com­
puter News” page of the NY Times 
Syndicate. Amazingly, an aspiring 
writer by the name of Bill Gates has 
debuted with a national column. Amaz­
ing, isn’t it? Perhaps Road and Track 
can have Robert Stemple, the CEO of 
GM, write for it about cars (yes, I’m
Data Communications sent me a warn- 
ing message, graffiti.a warning fromC 
Data Comm has been established bui'. 
I’m going to see whether it is an av­
enue to the halls of fame or a cowpath 
to the grotto of shame before I post and,, 
actually admit getting it.
For now it’s just between the rea&. ; 
ers of COTI, DataComm, ttysnoopers,, 
and me.
The group of the week i^s,. 
alt.humor.best-of-usenet. Some Rhi 
these posts are actually funny. I would.,, 
have said alt.humor.funny, but the 
new moderator that Clarinet comma-,; 
nications has hired to regulate thatv. 
group seems to play to the high school. ,; 
crowd. Either that or it has some scripts.. 
that post almost everything it gets.,',
Well, maybe I have been a little
Being the pessimist that I am, I’ve been 
predicting the Crash of1995 since the early, 
hard selling of Microsoft Windows '95 started, 
in the spring...
biased, too — as we all are — but my 
biases are the cleansed of the Unpaid 
kind).
A cynic might observe that Microsoft 
stock is being cleansed of value on the 
stock exchanges, but that’s true of a 
lot of technical companies right now.
Being the pessimist that I am, I’ve 
been predicting the Crash of1995 since 
the early, hard selling of Microsoft 
Windows ’95 started in the spring, and 
Microsoft itself was called a 
“bellweather” stock.
Reports now are that it isn’t selling 
as well as was hoped. Time will tell. If 
you haven’t already read it, read 
Galbraith’s The Great Crash. There 
are lots of parallels between steel 
(1929s ballyhood commodity) and soft­
ware. It seems I have been using the 
Annex a little too much this week, so
harsh. A recent submission: “Heard 
from a truck driving friend who heaijcL ' 
it over the cb while driving: ‘Did you; - 
hear the latest from CNN? They’ye^n 
renewed the O. J. Simpson trial for the 
fall season.”
Genuinely funny, in my opinion. Anr f[ 
other joke titled “Betty Crocker” should. f 
have been ROT13’ed (had the letter^, 
substituted with the one 13th down 
the alphabet, looping when necessary, 
(ex: “azure” <==rotl3==> “mmher”), 
for being offensive. Not everyone can/, 
find the line separating the crude from,, 
the shocking or even agrees where it,, 
can be found, but everyone knows when 
they are close. Except those so far from 
it, like Howard Stern. •
Kenton Shaver is a senior English, 
major and a pessimist to boot.
ADVENTURE, from page LI
“We also go backpacking, camp­
ing, ice climbing; we’re open to 
just about any outdoor activity 
that you want to do,” said Chang.
The club’s main purpose is to 
rally students together in order 
to organize recreational climbs 
and kayaking trips.
“There are lots of trips going on 
all the time — some are sponta­
neous, but others we plan in ad­
vance,” said Chang.
“Our next big trip is the Mega- 
Trip to Slippery Rock,” said fel­
low member, Kiril Okun, with a 
gleam inhis eye. The junior infor­
mation decisions major has been 
kayaking for seven months now 
and finds it to be a popular sport 
on campus. “The trip combines 
kayaking and climbing into one 
weekend,” he added.
To introduce new members to 
the basics of kayaking, the
an opportunity to rent gear for 
reduced prices... and we get good 
deals on trips, such a possible 
trip to Cozumel in the spring,” he 
added.
The club also makes excursions 
within Pittsburgh to local quar­
ries and lakes and offers intro­
ductory courses to new members. 
They also provide specialty 
courses such as cave diving, res­
cue, and underwater photogra­
phy classes for more experienced 
divers.
“We also bring speakers from 
time to time at our meetings so 
that members can listen to ex­
pert scuba divers’ advice and tips,” 
said Stevenson.
“Personally, I have found the 
sport to be fascinating,” 
Stevenson said. “I remember a 
trip that I took with the club my 
freshman year during which I 
had the opportunity to swim with
“In the winter, different groups 
will work out together, in the 
gym or running steps at the Ca­
thedral of Learning.
Then the actual racing season 
begins during the last weekend 
of March and runs until May,” 
said Claire Palmgren, the coordi­
nator for the Bicycle Racing Club. 
“During the fall we mainly Moun­
tain bike, while the spring fo­
cuses on road racing,” she added.
“We’re basically a close-knit 
bunch of people who share a pas­
sion for riding and love to train 
together,” she added.
Not all adventure sports on this 
campus are organized associa­
tions; activities such as roller 
hockey definitely border on the 
daring, but are more difficult to 
organize into a cohesive team.
“Roller hockey is taking the 
traditional sport of ice hockey and 
moving if off the ice and onto a
Bungy jumper takes a flying leap
BUNGY, from page LI
Basically, my legs made it 
clear that my body wasn’t go­
ing anywhere. However, I had 
already paid and there are no 
refunds.The guys up on the 
bridge started singing to me, 
which was all the incentive I 
needed. I leapt off the platform 
as forcefully as my trembling 
legs would let me.
The swan dive didn’t happen; 
instead I plummeted towards 
the earth in the elevator posi­
tion (legs pointing down with 
body straight) which maximizes 
speed by minimizing wind re­
sistance. The advantage of this 
style jump is that you get to see 
the mountains going by instead
of the ground getting doomfully 
closer.
After the jump, there is a split 
instant of total weightlessness. 
My mind went completely clear 
as my eyes took in the scenery of 
mountains, snow, and sky. My 
body began to fall. Instinctively 
my arms went out to my sides, 
but there was nothing to hold 
onto. My thoughts were blank — 
that’s the beauty. It was not pos­
sible to think of anything except 
the fact that I was falling.
I’ve tried skiing, snowboarding, 
caving, parasailing, abseiling, 
and roller blading; nothing has 
ever compared to the speed or 
exhilaration of the bungy jump. 
No matter what stress is on your
mind, no matter what song is- 
going through your head, nir< 
matter what worries you may ' 
have, when your body is mov-g* 
ing at 120 kilometers per hour‘ ^ 
nothing can compete with th^ 
sheer speed and falling sensa­
tion. It is the only thing on your 
mind.
Eventually, the cord slows^ 
you down and you do some of 
that bouncing up and down 
stuff, but it doesn’t matter.
The exhilaration of the whole 
thing completely exhausted me ’ 
and the others I was with. We 
all went home to our hostel foi;' 
naps. Then, that night, we par7 ’ 
tied for seven hours straight 
because we felt alive.
“We ... go backpacking, camping, ice climbing; we're 
[Explorer's Club] open to just about any outdoor activity 
that you want to do, ”
— Michael Chang, president of the Explorer’s Club
classified
Explorer’s hold pool sessions ev­
ery Sunday night at nine in the 
gymnasium. “The point is to get 
people used to the idea of grace­
fully drowning,” said Okum. “It 
helps you become comfortable 
with being upside down under­
water,” he added.
On top of taking one’s mind off 
of tiresome studies, adventure 
sports can also help a student 
deal with the day-to-day pres­
sures of life. “Climbing can be a 
real confidence builder — a big 
thrill,” said Chang. “The feeling 
of getting to the top is amazing. 
You know that your skill brought 
to that place.”
Another exciting sport that is 
sponsored by the school is scuba 
diving, a club initiated by a few 
students with the desire to find 
others on campus who wanted to 
dive together.
“A majority of the members 
have never dived before,” said 
Todd Stevenson, a junior biology 
major and president of the scuba 
club.
“We provide our members with
a pack of manatees. I vaguely 
knew what they were but had 
never seen one up close.... It was 
so amazing being around this 
massive creature. I watched it 
eating vegetation from the floor 
of the lake and» wondered how 
man could have made such an 
animal an endangered species.”
Such memories are what 
Stevenson considers to be the 
highlight of Scuba diving, as well 
as the chance to experience al­
most another world.
The Bicycle Racing Club is an­
other organization on campus 
that offers activities that engage 
the truly adevnturous spirit.
Giving the competitive student 
the opportunity to strut his or 
her wings, the Bicycle Racing 
Club is open to any student want­
ing to bike race, whether it be 
road biking or mountain biking.
A part of the National Colle­
giate Cycling Association, the 
Club offers group rides in the 
winter and in the spring in addi­
tion to training off and on the 
bikes for interested riders.
street or floor,” said John Michael 
Santore, a senior math major and 
experienced roller hockey player 
at CMU.
“It works with usually four or 
five skaters, a side and a goalie. 
Since it is a team sport, you need 
more than two or three people to 
play. Another difficulty is finding 
a sufficiently smooth, flat surface 
that is enclosed by a fence or 
boards,” he added.
According to Santore, roller 
hockey is an easy way to relieve 
stress and have fun on campus at 
very little cost.
“All that it really takes to play 
is a pair of blades, a stick, and 
maybe gloves and pads, if you 
want,” he said.
Anyone interested in playing 
roller hockey can post to the 
hobbies, rollerhockey and then try 
to organize a time and a place to 
play.
Anyone who is interested in 
participating in any type of sport 
should contact the related orga­
nization or club, or should post to 
its b-board.
pORSALE
Software, Mac Strata-Vision 6.0 
$200: PC Q&A .3 $20 speakers, 
Technic dual 200 watt, $175/pair 
856-5141.
fJOUSIS’G
Shadyside — 1BR, charming, 
newly-decorated C/A, sw, and 
disposal. 1 block Walnut, large 
balcony. 362-5343.
Female, immediate occupancy,
share home, private room, bath and 
garage. Must have car. Very low 
rent in exchange for some services. 
Tel. 521-5643.
ResL
Earn $500 or more weekly stuffing 
envelopes at home. Send SASE to: 
Country Living Shoppers, Dept. 
C22, PO Box 1779, Denham 
Springs, LA 70727.
SPRING BREAK! Travel free with 
Sun Splash Tours, "The Reliable 
Spring Break Company!" We pay 
the highest commissions, at the
lowest prices. Campus Reps wanted 
to sell Jamaica, Cancún, Bahamas, 
Daytona, Panama City and South 
Padre. Call for Information, Reserva­
tions & Prices. 1-800-426-7710.
Membership and organizational
director. Average 10 hours a week, 9 
months a year. $7.00/hour bonus 
possible. Maintain and increase 
organization membership, solicit 
contributions, student/faculty liaison, 
manage mailings, compile newslet­
ter. Send resume including any 
references to: Taylor Allerdice 
Alumni Association 2409 Shady Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217.
Domino's Pizza now hiring inside 
help and drivers. Flexible hours 
around classes. Apply at 315 North 
Craig Street.
LifclaiL
Lose weight with doctor recom­
mended herbal and nutritional 
programs. Easy, safe, comfortable, 
dropped 6 dress sizes in 8 weeks, 
without drugs, exercise, or crazy 
diets! Kelly 429-5894.
Alex's flowers for romance, 
birthday, anniversary, platonic and ! 
more. 687-4128. DELIVERY 687- | 
ALEX. Group discounts and Greek j 
discounts.
Your family matters. And because* 
it does, you now have a choice in ! 
your level of legal services in divorc^ 
and custody matters. From "Do it | 
yourself" packets to full service legal 
representation. Call 367-5855, 24 i 
hrs.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........S5.00/wk
21-50 words..........$8.00/wk
51-100 words........$11.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.Esammmammmmmm*
THETARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Citibank at
Nmyu6
OAAeuii6
Exploring CMU
by Andrew Wang
The question of the week is: 
How much sleep do CMU stu­
dents get, and how do they deal 
with it?
“Sleep? What’s that?” said An­
tonio Gutierrez, a freshman in 
CIT who averages about 4.3 hours 
of sleep per night and pulls about 
two all-nighters per week.
When I approached some of the 
55 random Cut-wanderers and 
told them that I was conducting a 
survey on “Sleep at CMU,” grins 
popped up on some of their faces 
as they thought about how much 
(or how little) sleep they have 
been getting. The average amount 
of sleep per night of the overall 
survey group was 6.8 hours, and 
only 33 and a third percent of the 
surveyed students felt that they 
have enough sleep.
“I usually get enough home­
work to keep me occupied con­
stantly. So the choice comes down
to life, sleep, or grades. Sleep 
goes first; the other two are much 
more important,” said Dave 
Raymore, a sophomore majoring 
in ECE.
“Everyone can get a reasonable 
amount of sleep if they work smart 
and efficiently during the day, 
and work all 
weekend,” said an 
anonymous se­
nior in industrial 
design who aver­
aged eight hours 
of sleep a night.
The results of 
the survey varied 
depending on de- 
partment and 
year.
In the lead for 
the class with the 
least sleep were 
the juniors in the 
survey group, av­
eraging a measly 
5.9 hours of sleep per night with 
only 14 percent of them satisfied 
that they had enough sleep.
Sophomores in the surveyed 
group averaged 6.3 hours of sleep 
a night, which was only about six 
percent more sleep than the jun­
iors received. However, the sopho-
juniors’ satisfaction rate at 35 
percent.
Even with an average of 6.6 
hours of sleep a night, only 18 
percent of the freshmen in the 
random survey group felt that 
they had enough sleep. “Sleep is 
good. Give me more,” said Nathan 
Mendez, a fresh­
man studying 
ECE who pulls 
all-nighters on 
the average of 
three times a 
week.
Graduate stu­
dents in the sur­
vey group aver­
aged 6.8 hours 
of sleep and had 
a 33 percent sat­
isfaction rate. 
These results
mores had more than twice the
Sandy Lli/Tartan Photo Staff 
This door, found in Doherty Hall, were almost 
reads "Wake up and live.” identical to the 
overall survey 
group’s average amount of sleep 
and satisfaction rate.
Most of the graduate students 
in the survey group agreed that 
they receive more sleep now than 
they did when they were fresh­
man or sophomores.The seniors 
in the survey group averaged the 
most sleep, with an impressive
7.5 hours of sleep a night and a 71 
percent satisfaction rate.
In terms of departments, the 
SCS students in the survey group 
averaged the least sleep, with 6.4 
hours of sleep and a 25 percent 
satisfaction rate in the amount of 
sleep they get. Surprisingly the 
H&SS students in the survey 
group averaged about 6.5 hours 
of sleep a night and had a 18 
percent satisfaction rate, while 
the CIT students in the survey 
group averaged about 6.6 hours 
of sleep a night and had 47.6 
percent satisfaction rate, mean­
ing that t“he H&SS (sometimes 
mistakenly referred to as “H & 
Less Stress”) students in the sur­
vey group had less sleep than the 
CIT students in the survey group. 
MCS and industrial management 
students in the survey group av­
eraged about 6.9 hours of sleep 
with a 22 percent satisfaction 
rate, and 7.0 hours of sleep with 
a 50 percent satisfaction rate, 
respectively.
“Procrastination is good. Jolt 
is better!,” said Norman Ng, a 
freshman MCE major who aver­
ages 5.1 hours of sleep a night.
Andrew Wang is a freshman ECE 
major.
For answers to 
your student loan 
questions, talk 
to Citibank, the 
student loan 
experts. Our
customer service
representatives 
are here to help 
you from the 
beginning of 
the financial aid 
process through 
your final student 
loan payment. 
Exceptional
GET OUT OF HERE!
We Have The Lowest Student Fares!
O li li ut .1 FRHE "Sn ¡SI Tiimn" .1/ if. i//\/Z
Travel -
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational ExchangeInternet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 MeyranAve, Pittsburgh, PA 15213_________
Council
683 1881
NEW YORK CITY$104 BOSTON $79
PHILADELPHIA 39 WASHINGTON DC 75 
MIAMI 119 CHICAGO 114
LOS ANGELES 179 SAN FRANCISCO 178
Fares are STUDENT fares, from Pittsburgh, each way based on a round trip purchase. International Stu­
dent ID may be required. Taxes & surcharges are 
NOT included. Fares may change without notice.
k4 olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Child, family and adult 
counselling available, 
fee based on income.
Call U.Pitt Clinical Psychology Center 
624-8822
You mean someone 
has answers to my 
student loan questions?!?
need, call
1-800-692-8200
Operator 268, 
send in the coupon 
below, or visit 
your school’s 
Financial Aid
Office.
Students showcase 
art at Forbes Gallery
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
-Tartan Staffwriter
, '¡One of the many places at 
; Carnegie Mellon where you can 
1 expand beyond your major is 
the Forbes Art Gallery. Forbes 
' Gallery is a student-run show- 
i room that features exhibitions 1 of campus artwork of all stu- 
; dents, regardless of his or her 
i affiliation with the school.
1 / “We’re taking an interdisci­
plinary approach,” said Anne 
-Lopez, the co-director of the 
* Forbes Gallery. “We want the
enced many changes, such as 
newly- painted walls and re­
finished floors, which give the 
gallery a brighter, more refined 
atmosphere.
Lopez hopes that these 
changes will attract more stu­
dents to the gallery, bringing 
greater support from the cam­
pus. “I think the gallery has a 
snotty image, which we want to 
get rid of,” she said. “People 
shouldn’t be intimidated to stop 
by, but bring a friend if it makes 
you more comfortable. A lot of 
people walk by and look through 
the windows, but they seem
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Forbes Gallery exhibits a variety of student artwork.
gallery to represent work of 
I students across campus, not 
j just one section,” she said.
While the gallery usually fea­
ture s the work of students in 
. CFA, Lopez and the other mem­
bers of the staff are trying to 
create a more diverse collec­
tion in each show. “We want to 
encourage people in MCS, CIT, 
and other colleges to display 
their art — we’re open to ev- 
; eryone. And when I say every- 
' one, I mean freshmen to se- 
: niors, majors, non-majors, each 
¦".^student on this campus,” she 
;' said. The gallery itself consists 
¡j of one spacious room with large 
I bay windows which face onto 
Eorbes Avenue and a smaller 
I room, with a kitchen attached 
•-between the two. A two-story 
i facility, the basement is re- 
! served for Sub-Art installa- 
! tions.
>With the start of the new 
1 school year, the gallery experi-
afraid to come inside,” she 
added. The gallery also hosts 
weekly closing receptions that 
are open to everyone and in­
cludes free refreshments. “It’s 
a good opportunity to see the 
artist and study his or her 
work,” said Lopez.
This week the gallery is fea­
turing small art, work that is 
smaller than 3’ x 3’ for two- 
dimensional pieces and 12” x 
12” for three-dimensional 
pieces. While most shows only 
run for a week, the Small Art 
Exhibit will show until next 
Sunday. The gallery 
tookproposals for the fall se­
mester shows until Friday, Sep­
tember 22. “If you want to sub­
mit work but aren’t sure of what 
you want to do, let us know, 
and well try to help you come 
up with a show,” said Lopez. “
“The gallery is a friendly 
place,” said Lopez. “It exists to 
benefit everyone.”
Wed., 9/20, 7:30 p.m. & Thurs. 9/21,12 noon, Friends Mtg House (Oakland) 
Thurs. 9/21, 7 p.m., Squirrel Hill Bookstore Information, call 521-6000.
©1993. Transcendental Meditation- is a registered service mark of World Plan Executive Council—U.S.
Columnist finds zombie colony at CMU
oem0iTu0Au09ma CuA49m94r0
Free Lectures This Week'
The benefits of Maharishi’s TM, 
scientifically documented by 
researchers at Harvard, SRI, Cornell, 
and institutions worldwide, include:
¦ Reduction of stress and blood pressure
• Clearer, more creative thinking
¦ Enlivening the body’s own healing response
• Having the health of a person 5-15 years younger required.
Maharishi Mahesh YogiFounder of the Transcendental Meditation' technique
TM is natural, enjoyable and easy. No change in belief 
or lifestyle is
answers you
Citibank
has all the
student loan 
information 
you need 
now.
I PLEASE S 
I THE FOLL 
I ? Citib
SEND ME APPLICATIONS FOR 
FOLLOWING STUDENT LOANS: 
Citibank Federal 
Stafford Loan
(subsidized and unsubsidized)
? Citibank Federal PLUS Loan
(for parents of dependent students only)
? Citibank Graduate 
Loan Program
(for graduate students of all disciplines 
- please indicate your field of study) 
MAIL THIS COUPON TO:
Citibank (NYS)
Attn: The Student Loan Corporation 
P.O. Box 22948 
Rochester, NY 34692-2948
1-800-692-8200 and ask for 268.
I OR CALL 1 
I Operator 
I VISIT OUF
I49M_____________
ouautlr0u_______
vrT4ma vuTDe49M #_ 
YrD meu TDeeu09aM: 
Yume rp semADm94r0 _
? m0 D0AuesemADm9u i9DAu09 ? m semADm9u i9DAu09
VISIT OUR WEB SITE at http.7/www.lqci.com/HO/viUage/Citibank/CSLC.html
If you are a graduate student, please indicate the field of study you are pursuing:
? Business (MBA) ? Medicine (allopathic and osteopathic studies)
? Engineering ? Nursing
?me“ CITIBANKO ICode 269 I
customer service 
is just one reason 
why students 
have trusted 
Citibank with 
their education 
financing more 
than any other 
bank. To get the

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
JUST CHECmG. 
I'M SUO YOO'RE 
UP AND DRESSED.
TOM 5HOJLD TUROW HER 
OFF THE TRAU. FOR.
, A WHILE. y
LCOK AT AU. THIS PEANUT 
BUTTER.' THERE MUST BE THREE 
SIZES Of FIVE BRANDS OF FOUR 
CONSISTENCIES' WHO CtMAUDS 
, TU\S MUCH CHOICE ??
I KNOW.' I'LL QU\T MY JOB 
AND DENOTE MY UFE To 
CUOOS\NG PEANUT B.UTTER/ 
\S 'CUUHKN ' CHUNKY ENOUGH, 
i OR DO I NEED 2X7*4 CHUNM'?
ILL COMPARE INGREDIENTS/ 
L'LL COMPARE BRANDS' HL 
COMPARE SIZES AND PR\CES.' 
MMBE 1U. DRWE N2CWND m 
SEE WHAT OTHER STORES HAVE. 
SO MUCH SELECTION AMD 
SO UTTLE TIME!
I TU INK YOU DID m MANPGER 
SHOULD DO IME HAVE TO TPUC. 
SHOPPING. TO YOU AGMN?
THEARNN
HEM, WHERE'S 
THE PEANViP
couurt ?/ü
¦OR 5WOW WAD TELL, I 
BROUGHT A UTOE TOY 
AIRPLANE. .____
IT'S SORT OF ORDINARY, 
I SUPPOSE, BUT I UKE 
TO HWE IT AROOND.
IT REMINOS ME THAT AS 
SOON AS I SAME A UTOE 
MORE MONEY, ILL BUN A 
TICKET AND PUT SO MUCH 
DISTANCE BETWEEN YOU 
CHUMPS AND ME. IT WILL 
BCGGLE YOUR MINDS.'
IT'S NOT AN ’ATTITUDE, 
IT S A FACT/ _____.IN HUMOR, T\MING 
IS EVERYTHING.
I LIKE CEREAL TO 
CRACKLE AND FOP 
WHEN I PUT M\LK 
ON \T. ____
RIGINAL FLAVOR’... WA\T, HERE'S
ree esyRoai lSy vrtrLe IAnurd
W HERE'S "LESS FAT.'
WHAT IF I WANT LESS FAT AMD LESS 
SALT ? WHAT DISTINGUISHES "UTE" 
FROM THESE OTHERS ? DOES THE 
"ORIGINAL FLAVOR’ PACKAGE IMPLY 
THAT THE OTHERS TASTE DIFFERENT ?
FRANKLY, MY UFE WAS PLENTY 
COMPUCATED BEFORE -/*•*—- 
THE POTATO CHIPS . (©*)
SEE7 VERY 
ENTERT AVNING
I'VE NEVER SEEN ) I PUT IN AN 
RMSIN BRkN I ALKA-SELTZER. 
DO THAT. v_________
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
SIR? SIR, (MAKS L„„ UP! 1HBIN5PBC- 
WZ FROM CHIU? %/' 5ERVICES ¡5
1 \^P“v
HB WANTS TO 566 ALL THE AP­
PROVAI# ANP CERTIFICATIONS.
MW%B/ ¡C E.YoB ou SYocanScE 
bem ABOUT STAFFING AND PRO- 
CBPURES, AHDCHECKThBFA­
CILITY FOR CWe VIOLATIONS'.
I'LL HOLP 
HIM OFF 
AS LONG 
ASICAN.
ÍTS PLENTY E!6 
ENOUGH, SIR, IN 
CHINA, WE HOUSE 
THIICE ThIS MANY 
CHILDREN IN A 
XROOM TNIS SfZE.
HONEY, 
HAVEYOU 
BVERCCN- 
SIPER5P 
USING SUB­
TITLES?
INCHINA, 
YOU KILL- 
THEG/RL5.
HOW MANY KIPS 1 I
ARB IN THIS ,—J,-----U-JLJ
s ROOM? IPUNNO..
¿5? cr
YOU PUT 
TO BOYS 
TD60H0&\
sTRAmr
AHEAP.
35 KIPS 
/NONE 
ROOM?
I WITH - 
emu THE , 
COMMENT.
FT'S EXACTLY THEKINPOF 
GOVERNMENT INTRUSION 
THAT NEWT-BOY SHJORS 
HE'P PO AWAY WITH f
BESIDES, WHY US? 
WE USE NOTHING 
IN OUR PRODUCTS 
BUT CHOICE,GRADE- 
APORK! -
SIR, YOU BET­
TER HU RRT. THE 
CHILD WELFARE 
tAAH IS WATTING..
AND YOU'RE LOW IßURZET 
ON EVERYTHING*- I CUTS! 
DISINFECTANTS, IWHATCAN 
SOAP, BANP-A¡PS..\ 190?
THIS IS 
AN OUT­
RAGE!
HOW MANY STEPS YOU 
YOU MISSING HB5PMB 
THBRE? THREE? TOPOIHE 
FOUR ? I MATH FOR
YOU?
MR. DUK£, I'VE 
NEVER, 5BENA 
CHIU?CARE FA­
CILITY IN SUCH 
PCmCONPfT/ON!
PLENTY OF A NANNY'S. ? 
PUOTTAPE, BEST FRIENPL 
THOUGH, I NOTICE HOCÙ
SEE.,. QUIET ms$
UM...FYI, 
i SIR, WE'RE j RUNNING 
AN ORPHAN- < AGENOW.
I KNEW 
THAT. 
FOR PIGS?
NO KIP­
PING? 
NEVER?
OKAY, BUP-HWTS 
SO IMPORTANT I 
HAP TO INTERRUPT 
OURPAILY PRAYER. 
BREAKFAST? /
MR. PUKE? I'M YEAH? 
KEVIN PEV/LLE SO? WHATS 
FROM CHI UP WEL- THEPROB- 
FARE SERVICES. LEM?
¡fRECE/VEPAN WHATÎTHAT'S 
ANONYMOUS CALL IMPOSSIBLE! 
ALERTING USTO WS ¡PONTLET 
NUMEROUS COPE THB KIPS USE 
VIOLATIONS CUT THE PHONE-
SHEHAP 
ACHINESE 
ACCENT, f
WELL, YOUR BOOK- ^ 
KEEPING IS AS BAP 
AS EVERYTHING ELEE 
HERE. WHATSTH/5 
BIG CASHP/SEURSE- 
MENTS ACCOUNT FOR?
TO MAKE NEW^^L y 
FR1ENP5, LIKE 
YCURSELF, FOR.
INSTANCE. WE'P
LIKE YOU JO BE W OH, ^
OUR FRIEND. M REALLY? \
REALLY! TAKEWHAT- 
EVERYOUNEEP. A GUY 
ON A GOVERNMENT SALA­
RY COULP PROBABLY USE 
A FEW EXTRA.-EXTRA... 
UM... WHAT ARE 
\ YOU POING?
Ilf ÏM ABOUT TO 
HAVBAREAUY\MANPA-
RINOR.
CANTON­
ESE?
DILBERT ® by Scott Adams
15 THftT MY 
NEU COLOR 
MONITOR?
OUR, NEW COttPANY SLOGAN 
IS "ACT LIKE YOU OWN 
THE COMPANY." SO IVE 
BEEN SELLING THE STUFF 
THAT I DON'T USE AND 
KEEPING THE MONEY.
I'VE BEEN ON HOLD FOR 
TECH SUPPORT SINCE TUE5ÜAY. 
GET BOB AND MEET N\E 
IN THE CAR. <r~7
IT STARTS UKE A REGULAR 
UEDGIE THEN I WRAP 
rt AROUND ( '
HIS HEAD. J QUESTION.
UHERE ARE YOU 
TAKING ALL OF 
THAT OFFICE in HAVING 
EQUIPMENT? A GARAGE 
1 SALE.
I CAN'T WAIT TO 
TRY fAY NEWEST 
/AANEUVER, THE 
"TURBAN WEOdE.YEAH, I NEVER 
USED THAT 
THING,.
THIS CORNING I FIRED 
THE MARKETING DEPART­
MENT AND HAD SECURE 
ESCORT THEM OUT.
(JOULD IT HELP IF 
I TOED VOU THAT 
RESOURCES ARE OUR 
MOST VALUABLE . 
A5SET 7
m HAPPY TO REPORT 
THAT I HAVE EMBRACED 
THE NEU COMPANY 
SLOGAN "ACT LIKE YOU 
OWN THE COMPANY."
Vjjt'Pi. HUKf\N 
5Í.ING5 , ^OT
"RESOURCES" •
ALICE, I'VE DECIDED 
TO ADD A RESOURCE 
TO YOUR PROTECT.
PRESS "ONE" FOR SALES. 
PRESS’TWO" IN A HOPE­
LESS EFFORT TO GET 
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
PRESS "ONE" FOR ANSWERS 
TO QUESTIONS YOU DON'T 
HAVE. PRESS“TUO" IF 
YOU'RE GULLIBLE AND 
OPTIMISTIC. I-------
PRESS'^UO" IF YOU'RE 
WILLING TO BUY 
SOMETHING JUST SO 
YOU CAN TALK TO A 
HUMAN BEING...
IT'S MADE BY
THE 5AME ['THAT ' A
COMPANY THAT MAKES 
MAKES FORTUNE ME FEEL 
COOKIES FOR BETTER,. 
CANADA! S/-------------
I FOUND SOFTWARE 
THAT HELPS MANAGERS 
WRITE PERFORMANCE 
EVALUATIONS!
I DIDN'T THINK 
YOU KNEW HOW 
TO USE A PC. r
MY SECRETARY 
WROTE THESE

---------------------------------------------------

BY HI ROM! HASA6AWA
MS. OLTMPIA PMENT» SWIMSUIT AHD BK.re.E-RY COHPETVTIOH
Reelsby /VViRe Yeh
QK Cl ASS, ANYONE Mm 
; sm ME HO// 70 APPROACH 
, Ins ids eDvvroCIAm fm C«y
OUT/EM'S pvU
MA^M/ww\mww\
I THINK OUR PURPOSE HERE 
/S HELPING THE
% mcLocgZ

---------------------------------------------------

Ufen*KELL
©ms
&?0£h)WC>CAASlliC^-.-'CQicO Pi^D__Jd »lick CMtifrTot3r. **¿6
. \ ^fTftri/cOvriMC T ELarAggendn smT lcdno1 X WAS 
TRYINfr TO CALL. YOU ALL 
PAY, FREP-BUT YOUK pHof/E
THATi IMPOSSIBLE)X WAS OUT ALL
Ystlemnnmau tolelk
SO EVE.RYTIML I. VENT 
AWP G^T THE PAMtf ¿TICK, 
THE FAT PIG- KEPT 
THROWING Ru cwMDmx WANTE.P To'glTE 
Ul 5 THUMBS OFFj
UeoUtnUlW' 'l£'S)o ^oW*/!
picx \5 NffAU tieiose iw
TH£ KwT g-lo Af-jy PuMje.,. 
cphx xbtouy’OpCO e,^MPfcR 
|kJ eCtoyf,hcw-kM
^ V iftA
HEV i l^ATChf 
UMGflE 
bi3\tü' V0U 
k/Üt!
-tUT<u*fcvl CM« » |H14' ?/Zir/<?5'
/W G£tir. u>HAT'0 l -bö 
-rwf«r po«-7 \ B¡ oi/uofJri\ 
SfciD TV)AT, oH( »aam.
i>/AT (VftS Sro 
CttMDE , „ So 
.eAlgtUvya SSlg 
O IB""R \ C4
fc>M, MAfJi I’a\ Suce) ft. 
Wlm9: 4p b KEJr4G0 oce
/H£v/1 UovyE- THkt UJR.Ec.|t: i 
l-THE UfcHTls !^l
WELL. I Pän’-t t<joou) 
WF4"oYpTpT o0 F"9k 
AftSDUUErP OV?.
R6r ¦P!>6
DGlm9nuMt6 img LOJ1 
O nrJ£y<g S Dt :y£ß£?G

---------------------------------------------------

Fall 1995 Final Exi
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
Final Examination Policy and Schedule 
Office of the Registrar 
Fall, 1995
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final examinations for the 
Undergraduate courses;
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for exam purposes of any 
kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressure to move an exam so that people can leave earlier.
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; 
the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the student's choosing during 
the final exam period;
8. any student shall be permitted to see his/her corrected, graded final exam In the presence of an 
instructor, provided the exam Is not in the student's possession;
9. all final exams shall be returned to students, or be kept available to students for a period of not
less than one year;
10. in the event that a teaching assistant is unable to fulfill part 8 or part 9, the responsibility shall 
rest with the course instructor;
11. in the event that an instructor is unable to fulfill part 8, 9, or 10, the responsibility shall rest 
with the department in which the course was offered;
12. It is assumed that instructors will return all work assigned before the final exam period. Thus, 
instructors are not responsible for retaining unclaimed coursework.
NOTE: COMPLAINTS ABOUT VIOLATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY OR ALTERATIONS 
OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO THE APPROPRIATE DEPART­
MENT HEAD.
Students requiring assistance in resolving exam conflicts should first see their course instructor, and if
further assistance is needed, the student should see their Associate Dean.
THIS FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE IS ALSO FOUND ON THE ANDREW BBOARD SYSTEM UNDER 
"OFFICIAL.REGISTRAR-INFO".
FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
Crs Title
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03121 MODERN BIOLOGY 
03240 CELL BIOLOGY 
03360 BIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN 
03380 VIROLOGY 
03439 INTRO TO BIOPHYSICS 
03609 FERMENTATN TCHNLGY
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06100 INTRO TO CHEMENGR 
06151 THERMODYNAMICS 
06201 PRINC TRANS PROC II 
06205 CHEM ENGR PR CTRLS 
06301 CHEM ENGR KINETICS 
06609 PHYS CHEM MACROMOL 
06703 ADV FLUID DYNAMICS 
06705 ADV CHE THRMODYNMCS 
06815 SP TPCS ADV PROC SYS
CHEMISTRY
09103 ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNG
09105 INTRO MODERN CHEM I
09106 MODERN CHEMISTRY II 
09117 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I 
09206 PHYS PRIN ANALY CHEM
09243 PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY
09244 QUAN PRINC PHY CHEM 
09248 INORGANIC CHEMISTRY 
09509 PHYS CHEM MACROMOL
DayDateTimeRoom
Tue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2210/2315
Mon. Dec. 181:00-4:00 p.m.PH 100
Tue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.SH 125
Tue.Dec. 198:30-11:30 a.m.Ml 348
Fri.Dec. 158:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
Thu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
Tue.Dec. 198:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1112/1212
Mon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.HBH 1000
Mon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.MMC 103
Fri.Dec. 158:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1112
Fri.Dec. 151:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1212
Thu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1112
Fri.Dec. 158:30-11:30 a.m.DH 2122 ‘
Mon.Dec. 111:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18B
Tue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A22
Mon.Dec. 181:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2315
Tue.Dec. 125:30-8:30 p.m.DH 2210/2315/1212
Tue.Dec. 125:30-8:30 p.m.DH 1112
Fri.Dec. 151:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2210/2315
Mon.Dec. 111:00-4:00 p.m.WEH 7500
Thu.Dec. 148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
Tue.Dec. 125:30-8:30 p.m.MMC A14
Tue.Dec. 128:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 7500
Thu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1112
12251INTRO ENVIR ENGINFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.DH 1112
12271IN CO AP CIV ENV ENGMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.SH 125
12320STRUCTURAL MECH 1Tue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH 125C
12355FLUID MECHANICSTue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.PH 125C
12356FLUID MECHANICS LABMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.PH 125C
12401CIV & ENVIR ENG DESMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.HH B131
12611PROJECT MANGMNT CONTMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.SH 125
12615TRAF FLOWTHRYOPERFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
12631STRUCTURAL DESIGNMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
12636AIR QUALITY ENGINThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.tn.PH A21
12651AIR QUALITY ENGINFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.SH 125
12690INDEPENDENT STUDYFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.PH A19
12704PR EST MTHD ENG SYSMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18A
12720WATER RESOURCE CHEMThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.PH A22
12732AIR QUALITY ENGINThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A21
12740CAE TOOLTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.DH A317
12741ADV PROG CNCPTS CAETue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A20
12748DES OF CAE SYSTEMSMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.PH A22
12755FINITE ELEM MECH 1Mon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
12757VIBRTNS ELASTIC SYSThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A22
12762ENVIRON GEOTECHNICSMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15211FUNDSTRUCCMPSCIMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.DH 2210/2315
15212FUND STRC CMP SC IIMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2210/1212
15312PROG LANG DES PROCMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.WEH 7500
15381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.MMC A14
15384ROBOTIC MANIPULATIONThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.HHB131
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH 100
15413SOFTWARE ENGINEERNGThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.TBA
15451ALGORITHMSTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 7500
15462COMPUTER GRAPHICSFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.MMC A14/103
15499NUMBER THEORY-Sec.EThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
15671MODEL SOFTWARE SYSFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18A
15681MACHINE LEARNINGMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18A
15852NUMBER THEORY-Sec. AThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
December 1995
11121314
Reading Day
18192021
15
22
Record your exams, dip and save.
ROBOTICS
16721ADV ROBOT PERCEPTIONFri.Dec. 155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19
16761INTRO MOBILE ROBOTSMon.Dec. 185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19
ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING:l 1
18100INTRO ELEC COMP ENGRTue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.MMC A14/103
18200MATH F6NDTON ELE ENGThu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.WEH 7500
18220FUND ot ELEC ENGRTue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.HH B103/B131
18240FUND OF COMPUT ENGRMon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.PH 100
18312SEMICOND DEVICES IITue.Dec. 128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A19
18322ANAL/DES DGTL CIRCMon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1112/1212
18347INTRO TO COMPUT ARCHTue.Dec. 198:30-11:30 a.m.PH 100
18370FNDMNTLS OF CONTROLMon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19
18396SIGNALS AND SYSTEMSThu.Dec. 148:30-11:30 a.m.HH B103
18481ANAL SYNTH EVALMon.Dec. 185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A21
18482TELECOM POLICY -Thu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
18523ANALG INTG CRCUT DESThu.Dec. 145:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18B
18550FUND OF COMM SYSTEMSMon.Dec. 181:00-4:00 p.m.HH B131
18715PHYS OF APPL MGNTSMThu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
18751APPL STOCH PROCESSTue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2200
18771LINEAR SYSTEMSFri.Dec. 151:00-4:00 p.m.HH B131
18776NON LINEAR CONTROLMon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.PH A19
18791DGTL SIGNAL PROC IMon.Dec. 111:00-4:00 p.m.HH B103/B131
18849SP TPCS COMP ENGFri.Dec. 155:30-8:30 p.m.MMC 103( ' ' J
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY'
19101INTRO ENGR & PUB POLTue.Dec. 125:30-8:30 p.m.PH 125C
19402TELECOM POLICYThu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
19430TELECOM POLICYThu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
19430CIV/MIL AP OF SPACEThu.Dec. 145:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19C
19644MEDICAL DEVICESTue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
19702QUANT MTHDS POL ANALTue.Dec. 125:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18A
19703WKSHP APPL POL ANALYMon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.PH A21
19712TELECOM POLICYThu.Dec. 148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A20
19712TELECOM POLICYThu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
MATHEMATICS
21105PRE-CALCULUSThu.Dec. 145:30-8:30 p.m.PH 10021111CALCULUS IMon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 750021112CALCULUS IIMon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.HH B10321121CALCULUS 1-Lec. 2Mon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.DH 221021121CALCULUS 1-Lec. 1Mon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.DH 231521121CALCULUS 1-Lec. 3Mon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.PH 10021121CALCULUS 1-Lec. 5Mon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 540321121CALCULUS 1-Led. 6Mon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 750021122CALCULUS 2Fri.Dec. 158:30-11:30 a.m.DH 2210/2315
21127INTRO TO MDRN MATHTue.Dec. 198:30-11:30 a.m.DH 2210/2315
21131ANALYSIS IMon.Dec. 181:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1112
21228DISCRETE MATFiFri.Dec. 155:30-8:30 p.m.HH B103/B131
21241LINEAR ALGEBRATue.Dec. 128:30-11:30 a.m.DH 2315
21257MODL METH OPTIMIZATNMon.Dec. 111:00-4:00 p.m.MMC A14/103
21259CALCULUS IN 3-jDThu.Dec. 145:30-8:30 p.m.DH 2210/2315
21260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSMon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1112/1212
21301COMBINATORIAL ANALYMon.Dec. 111:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
21355ADVANCED CALCULUS IMon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18B
21373ALGEBRAIC STRUCTURESFri.Dec. 151:00-4:00 p.m.WEH 7500
21441NUMBER THEORYThu.Dec. 148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
21450TOPICS IN GEOMETRYTue.Dec. 128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A22
21470SELECTED TOPC ANALYSMon.Dec. 185:30-8:30 p.m.HH B131
21476ORD DIFF EQUATIONSMon.Dec. 185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19C
21600MATH LOGIC IMon.Dec. 118:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
21781PROB THEO STOC PR ITue.Dec. 198:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
21782PROB THEO STOC PR ITue.Dec. 198:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24101FUND OF MECH ENGRTue.Dec. 125:30-8:30 p.m:PH 100
24121THERMODYNAMICS IMon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.SH 125/206
24213VISCOUS FLOWTue.Dec. 125:30-8:30 p.m.SH 125
24223THERMODYNAMICS IIFri.Dec. 158:30-11:30 a.m.HH B103/B131
24227INTRNL COMB ENGINESMon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.HH B103
24242ENGR VIBRATIONSThu.Dec. 141:00-4:00 p.m.HH B103
24245DYNAMICS PHYSCL SYSTue.Dec. 128:30-11:30 a.m.SH 125
24258NUMERICAL METHODSTue.Dec. 198:30-11:30 a.m.SH 125
MATERIALS SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING11
27100MATERIALS IN ENGRMon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.BH 136 A
27201MATERIALS IFri.Dec. 155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18C
27303MAT SCI & ENG LAB IMon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
27311PHASE RELATIONSTue.Dec. 128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
27357INTRO TO MATLS SELECTue.Dec. 128:30-11:30 a.m.DH A317
27421PROCESSING DESIGNTue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18A
27432ELEC MAG OPT PR MAGSMon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A20
27441DEFORM/FRAC OF MTRLSFri.Dec. 155:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 6423
27512DIFFRCTN MTH MAT SCIThu.Dec. 148:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 4327
27721PROCESSING DESIGNTue.Dec. 191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18A
27765SPECIAL TOPICSMon.Dec. 188:30-11:30 a.m.PH A20
27778MATHEMATICAL METHODSMon.Dec. 185:30-8:30 p.m.HH B103
27779BOND/CRYSTLS/DEFECTSTue.Dec. 121:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
27780THERMODYNAMICSMon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 5403
PHYSICS
33106PHYSICS ENGR STUD IMon.Dec. 115:30-8:30 p.m.DH 2210/2315
33107PHYSICS ENGR STUD IIMon.Dec. 111:00-4:00 p.m.PH 100
33111PHYSICS SCI STUD IMon.Dec. 111:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2210/2315

---------------------------------------------------

¡nations Schedule
'33112INTRO ELEC MGNETISMMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.SH 125
33211PHYSICS IIIMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.BH 136A
33213PHYSICS IIIMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.BH 136A
33225QUANTM PHY STRUC MATMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18A
33241INTR CMPTNL PHYSICSMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A20
33331PHYSCL MECHANICS IThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 8427
33335QUANTUM PHYSICS IITue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 5403
33341THERMAL PHYSICS IMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 7316
33345MTHMTCL MTHDS PHYSThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.WEH 6423
33439INT ELEC 8i MAGNET IIFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.WEH 5403
33453INTERMEDIATE OPTICSFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 6423
33467INTRO TO ASTROPHYSMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18A
33631UNDERSTAND QUAN MECHTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 7316
33755QUANTUM MECHANICS IFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 7316
33757CLASSICAL MECHANICSFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.DH 325
33759INTRO THEO PHYS IThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 7316
33761CLASSCL ELCTRODYN ITue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 7316
33783THEORY OF SOLIDS IMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 7316
STATISTICS
36201 STATISTCL REASONINGMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.DH 2210/2315
36202INTRO STAT METHODSMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.MMC A14/103
36207PROB 8<STAT BUS APPLFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH 100
36217PROB THEO RNDM PROCMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH 100
36220ENGR STAT QUAL CTRLMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH 100
36225INTRO PROB 8i STAT ITue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.HH B103/B131
36309EX DES BEHASOCSCIMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.MMC A14
36325PROB 8i MATH STAT IThu.Dec.14.5:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19
36703INTERMED PROBABILITYTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18B
36705INTERMED STATISTICSThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18A
36743STAT BEHAV SOC SCIMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.HH Bl31
367-14EX DES BEHASOCSCIMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.MMC A14
36753PROB THEO STOC PR ITue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
Crr INTERDISCIPLINARY
39405 ENG DES CREA PRD/PRCFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18B
39801COLL POLY SUR LAB 1,Tue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1209
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42100 BIOMED ENGR SEMINARTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
42500PHYSIOLOGYThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.DH 1112
42609FERMENTATN TCHNLGYThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
42636AIR QUALITY ENGINThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A21
42644MEDICAL DEVICESTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
42651AIR QUALITY ENGINFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.SH 125
426 7 7REHABILITATION ENGRMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18B
42709FERMENTATN TCHNLGYThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
42735PHYSIOLOGYThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.DH 1112
42744MEDICAL DEVICESTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
42777REHABILITATION ENGRMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18B
ARCHITECTURE
48210 STATICSFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.MMC A14
48310MATERIALS 8t ASSEMBLYFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.MMC A14
48317SITE ENGIN FOUNDATNMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.MMC A14
48410ACOUSTICS & LIGHTFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.SH 125
48420DESIGN ECONOMICSTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.MMC 103
48552ART/INSTRUMENTALITYTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.PH A22
48741ADV PROG CNCPTS CAETue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A20
48748DES OF CAE SYSTEMSMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.PH A22
QESIGN
51340 HOW THINGS ARE MADEFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.MMC A.11
MUSIC
57151 16TH CENT COUNTPOINTFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.CFA 160
57152HARMONY 1Fri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.CFA 157
57153HARMONY II . .Mon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.CFA 157/160
57173SURVEY WEST MUS HISTThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.CFA 157/160
5720418TH 8i 19TH C MUSICThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.CFA 160
57240ACTING IThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.MMC 119
57257ORCHESTRATION ITue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.CFA 157
57260INTR SCHENKER ANALYThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.MMC 127
57301BGPIPE CM PR THRCOMPFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.TBA
57331PRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.CFA 157
57332INTRO TO CONDUCTINGMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.CFA 157
57360BRASS METHODSThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.CFA 157
57376MUSIC SEC SCHOOLSThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.TBA
57424MOZART OPERASFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.CFA 157
57457JAZZ HISTORY ITue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.CFA 160
57459SC RDG KYBD HARM ITue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.MMC 116
57673INSTRM STUDIO PEDAGYFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.CFA 157
57 7 6 0INTR SCHENKER ANALYThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.MMC 127
57831PRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.CFA 157
57860BRASS METHODSThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.CFA 157
57876MUSIC SEC SCHOOLSThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.TBA
57893INTRO TO CONDUCTINGMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.CFA 157
57924MOZART OPERASFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.CFA 157
L9p
60105PRE INDCULTRS 1789Mon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.HBH 1000
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY
66250 INTRO TO RELIGIONTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
66315HOLOCAUST IN HST PERTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
.APT4gd.lk tL0LNyty0p
70100 INTRO TO BUSINESSMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 7500
70101INTRO BUSINESS MGMNTMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.DH *1212
70122INTRO TO ACCOUNTINGThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2210
70160INTR GRA CMNCTNS ITue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.HH B131
70207PROB & STAT BUS APPLFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH 100
7031 1ORGNZTN BEHAVIORFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.PH 100
70312ORGNZTN STRCTRE EVIRFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18A
70332BUSINESS & SOCIETYMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.BH 136A
70335BUSINESS AND LABORThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.rp.PH A21
¡70340BUSINESS COMMUNCTNSThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.MMC A14/103
70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1112
70363LAW MDRN AMER SOCFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
70365INT TRADE & INT LAWMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18A
70371PRODUCTION IMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.BH 136A
70381MARKETING IThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.WEH 7500
70391FINANCE IMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 7500
7.0393FASTIThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1212
7.0422COST ACCOUNTINGFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.BH 136A
:7.044oBUS LDERSHP 8( STRATGTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.BH 136A
70451MGMNT INFORMATN SYSMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.SH 125
70459VIRTUAL BUSINESSESMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.MMC 103
70471PRODUCTION IITue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18B
70481MARKETING IIMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.MMC 103
70491FINANCE 2Fri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19D
70495CORPORATE FINANCETue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.WEH 7500
70520PUBLICITY PUB RELMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18C
70637ELCTRN PRT/N MED PRDFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18A
ECONOMICS
73100 PRINC OF ECONOMICSTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2210/2315
73110SOC DEC MKG:LAB APPRTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.
DH 1112/1212 
DH 1112
73250INTERMED MICROECONTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.PH 100
73260ECONOMETRICS ITue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.WEH 7500
73300INTERMED MACRECONTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH 100
73343ECON OF TECH CHANGEMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18B
73360ECONOMETRICS IITue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1212
73365INDUSTRL ORGANIZATNThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.DH 1212
73371INTNAT TRADE ECO DEVMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18C
73372INTNL MONEY/FINANCEFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1212
73458MONEY AND BANKINGTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.SH 125
ENGLISH
76201 CULT PRAC & LIT PRODFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH 125C
76230BBLCL MYTH BKGR LITMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.BH 235B
76235UTOPIA & DISCONTENTSTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18C
76238MEETING GREAT BOOKSMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.BH 231B
76239INTRO TO FILM STUDMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.BH 355
76245SHAKESPEAREFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH 125C
7633520TH CENTURY POETRYTue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.BH 235B
7633619 C LIT/CULT ST ROMTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.BH 231B
76374ARGUMENTTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A21
76430VICTORIAN REALISMTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.PH A22
76438ROMNCE:GENRE IDELOGYTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.BH 237B
76774ARGUMENTTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A21
76789GRAMMAR ST WRIT ENGTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18A
HISTORY
79104 INTRO TO WORLD HIST-Lec. 1Thu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.DH 2210/2315
79104INTRO TO WORLD HIST-Lec. 1Thu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.PH 100/BH 136A
79198RESCH TRAIN HISTORYMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19D
79202INTRO ANTHROPOLOGYMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18A
79204COLLAPSE/REN EUROPEFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18B
79216NAT ART SCI ENGR HISThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18B
79221HIST AMER URBAN LIFEMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19
79223MDRN LATIN AMERICAFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
79226TCHNLGY WSTRN CIVThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.HH B131
79227REC AMER FOREIGN POLMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.PH 125C
79229RELIG SOC AMER EXPThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.PH A20
79248AMERICAN FILMThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.MMC A14
79257AFRICAN-AMER HIS ITue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18A
79266PATTRNS AMER THOUGHTMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18C
79310ISS INTL RELATIONSThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18A
79388WAR AND TECHNOLOGYTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.HH B103
79727PROSEM IN US HSTRYFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19C
79800INTRO TO SOCIAL HISTMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19C
79820RESEARCH SEMINARThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A22
79863CMP HIST OF CULTURE .Mon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
79876HISTORICAL MTHDS IMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.PH A21
PHILOSOPHY
80130INTRO TO ETHICSMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.DH 1112
80150NATURE OF REASONTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.MMC A14
80180NATURE OF LANGUAGEThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.DH 2315
80210INTRODUCTN TO LOGICFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.MMC 103
80213ARGUMENTS & INQUIRYFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19
80253HIST OF MDRN PHILOSTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
80613ARGUMENTS & INQUIRYTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19
80753HIST OF MDRN PHILOSTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
MODERN LANGUAGES
82101ELEMENTARY FRENCH ITue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.BH 136A
82102ELEMENTARY FRENCH IIMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.BH 235B
82121ELEMENTARY GERMAN IMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.BH 136A
82123SELF-PACED GERMANFri.Dec.158:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
82131EL MANDARIN CHINESEThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.BH 136A
82141ELEMENTARY SPANISH ITue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.BH 136A
82142ELEM SPANISH IITue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.BH 235B
82161ELEMENTARY ITALIAN IMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH 125C
82191ELEM RUSSIAN IMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A19C
82221INTERMED GERMAN IThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18C
82222INTERMED GERMAN IIThu.Dec.141:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19
82231INTERMED CHINESE ITue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18B
82241INTERMED SPANISH IFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.BH 136 A
82242INTERMED SPANISH IIFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.BH 237B
82261INTERMED ITALIAN IFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A20
82291INTERMEDIATE RUSSIANTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1217
82323ADV GER GRA STY WRTGFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A21
82325INTRO GERMAN STUDIESFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH A22
82343HISP LANG CULTURE ATue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19
82344HISPNC LANG & CULT BMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A21
82383INT SEC LANG AQUISTNFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A20A
82391ADVANCED RUSSIANFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A22
82427THE NEW GERMANYTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19
82582THEORY & PRACT TRANSTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A19D
82783INT SEC LANG AQUISTNFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.PH A20A
82783INTRO SEC LAN ACQUISMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A22
PSYCHOLOGY
85100COG PROC THEO PRACFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.DH 2210/2315/1212
85120GENERAL PROGRAMMINGThu.Dec.148:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18A
85211COGNTVPSYCHOLOGYMon.Dec.118:30-11:30 a.m.MMC A14/103
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTFri.Dec.155:30-8:30 p.m.WEH7500
85241SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGYThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.MMC 103
85310COGNIT RESCH MTHDSMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A21
85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A20
85355INTRO TO COG NEUROTue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.PH A18B
85380HIST DEV EXP PSYCHTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18C
85411COG PROC PROB SOLVTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.BH 136A
85412PROD SYS MOD THOUGHTMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A22
85423COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.PH A21
85451PSYCH OF PURPOSEMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19
85710GRAD CORE COURSE ITue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.PH A19C
85711COG PROC PROB SOLVTue.Dec.191:00-4:00 p.m.BH 136A
85712PROD SYS MOD THOUGHTMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.PH A22
85723COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.PH A21
85751PSYCH OF PURPOSEMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.PH A19
SOCIAL AND DECISION SCIENCES
88104DEC PROC AM POL INS-Sec. BTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1212
88104DEC PROC AM POL INS-Sec. A&CTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.DH 2210
88110SOC DEC MKG:LAB APPRTue.Dec.128:30-11:30 a.m.DH 1112
88200DATA BAS MANGEMN SYSFri.Dec.151:00-4:00 p.m.PH 100
88220POLICY ANALYSIS ITue.Dec.198:30-11:30 a.m.MMC A14/103
88240EMPIRCL RSCH METH IMon.Dec.115:30-8:30 p.m.DH 1112/1212
$8260ORGANIZATIONSMon.Dec.111:00-4:00 p.m.DH 1112/1212
88302BEHAV DECSN MAKINGTue.Dec.121:00-4:00 p.m.PH A18A
88314ENVIRONMTAL POLITICSMon.Dec.181:00-4:00 p.m.PH A22
88323LEGISLATIVE PROCESSTue.Dec.125:30-8:30 p.m.: PHA20
88326ISS INTL RELATIONSThu.Dec.145:30-8:30 p.m.PHA18A
88329REC AMER FOREIGN POLMon.Dec.188:30-11:30 a.m.PH 125C
88343ECON OF TECH CHANGEMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18B
88743ECON OF TECH CHANGEMon.Dec.185:30-8:30 p.m.PH A18B
A'
-f-

---------------------------------------------------

! Uni
RS'd 
nti ¦
¦ ib
{' 'Poz'
m
¡(Oc
I UiJ«
j Wai
lAn
f pa
I WDi 
jtft'ia
1 W94
Ono-
gSs¡pv<
.
U-'J 
rii'iJil
J ?f'#i i 
3Mb-
Sf
ra; -¦ 
9J,ntJ3
-iHlVV
trir
* rZ-M it*
'» Jpfi £
If
¿'ft
T H’el“¦PtsI$3 V rh
111 ® ® Otj
A MAJOR CAMPUS SERVICE PROJECT.
trcfdi R,srnup mg lkk’ sr 
tTpduifu Ouoordg Sfssg Tda ywzwubduh 
tToo -ml Nvv-m Brp crpu fdBrpcTsfrdh

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 4DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
4:
2 5 September 1995
Pittsburgh Filmmakers finds new home
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
Although you may not know it, the fight over 
federal funding for arts organizations can be felt at 
Pittsburgh Filmmaker — the largest and oldest 
independant media arts center in the country. On 
the exterior it is a place where members can check 
out a camera and do anything from photograph a 
birthday party or try to make a motion picture. But 
Filmmakers is much more than that. It is a school 
of film, video, and photography production; it is an 
art exhibition area; and it provides 
funding and support to artists try­
ing to get their work out to an audi­
ence. And, it’s a shuttle ride away 
from CMU.
Established in 1971 as an equip- 
ment-access center and workshop 
for independent filmmakers, Film­
makers has grown and expanded so 
much that they have moved into a 
new 20,000 square foot facility on 
Mel wood Ave. between Centre and 
Baum. Andrew Sproule, the Direc­
tor of Public Relations and Market­
ing for Filmmakers and a 1995 
graduate of CMU, said that “people 
are starting to see the Value of what 
film does,” and Filmmakers has 
grown to accommodate this new in­
terest in the art.
Filmmakers offers courses in film 
(from physically making a movie to 
classes on its theory), video, and 
photography. Students from CMU, Pitt, Carlow, 
Duquesne, and Point Park College can all register 
for classes at Filmmakers through their school. 
This year, there are 600 students enrolled in classes 
at Filmmakers.
Sproule said, “in any metropolitan city, there is 
an outlet for a degree in film, but in Pittsburgh, the 
only way is through Pittsburgh Filmmakers.” Stu­
dents at Point Park can receive a Bachelor of Fine 
Arts through Filmmakers, or one can receive a
Certificate of Education on your own. In their new 
location, they have advanced new editing facilities, 
a 110- seat screening room, darkrooms, a resource 
library, and two photography galleries.
Several students have taken an interest in film- 
making these days, and have dreams of going to 
Hollywood, but Filmmakers is not about getting 
you a job in the studio system; instead it gives you 
the tools and the experience to learn how to do it on 
one’s own.
Brady Lewis is the educational director for Film­
makers. He is a professional independent film-
P 1 T T S B UR G H
F 1 L M M A KE R S
always have the money to get them released or 
even made, and Sproule said, “filmmaking is the 
most modern and cutting-edge art there is.” If the 
government decides to completely cut funding to 
the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and 
Humanities, there will be no federal money left for 
media arts.
Filmmakers used to be recipients of NEA grants. 
That money would then be 
granted to local filmmakers to 
finish their work and then help 
them distribute it. However, 
cuts in the NEA’s budget have 
eliminated that grant to Film­
makers and they are currently 
seeking other means to help 
out local artists.
Filmmakers’ success is al­
most unusual today as many 
non-profit arts organizations 
are closing their doors because 
of federal cuts. Filmmakers 
brings in 85 percent of its op­
eration costs through educa­
tion and exhibition, has a strong 
membership base, and contin-
making” will hang above the door. Some studenfe 
are worried about security in the new location 
because the old location on Forbes Avenue was nBt 
the safest place to be after dark, but Sproule saiii 
Pitt security patrols the new neighborhood and tlVe 
center can be reached by shuttle.
At CMU, you can register for classes at Filmmak­
ers through the College of Fine Arts Dean’s Offiife
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Edit 
Pierre Martin teaches the advanced equipment of the new Fimmakerd
Courtesy of Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
maker. As Sproule explains though, “he was not 
interested in becoming a Hollywood bigwig.” In­
stead, teachers like Lewis and Tony Buba, who is 
also an acclaimed independent filmmaker, “know 
their art and they pass their experience on to the 
students. They make a living at it, they teach it, 
and they make it,” said Sproule.
Film is the most popular form of modern art and 
innovation is seen all the time*,in this form. There 
are thousands of films made, but artists don’t
ues to become more popular each year. Sproule 
said, “we are a small arts organization that does 
huge things.” Currently Filmmakers is bringing in 
about 1.2 million dollars a year.
Filmmakers offers a low-cost membership in 
their organization. With this membership, access 
to equipment can be received and special film 
screenings can be attended.
Sproule said there are several people in this area 
who want to produce their art but not on a giant 
level.
He said, “Filmmakers is not attached to a studio 
or a university, and people who don’t feel inclined 
to be part of a system or who don’t have access now 
can.”
Filmmakers moved to their new location on Au­
gust 17. They are still unpacking and moving into 
offices, as well as finishing the second floor of the 
building. Soon, a blue neon sign that reads “Film­
on your normal registration day. However, enrol 
ment in the classes is limited. There is a registra­
tion fee, and students must pay for their own filijiji 
and processing.
In December, Filmmakers is throwing itself 
“coming-out party” to present the new location 
members, patrons, and friends. They will also he 
celebrating 25 years in Pittsburgh.
One of the philosophies that Filmmakers he 
always had is, “ to help the artist in any way yo 
can,” said Sproule. Students who do have a visio 
and want to try it out should enroll in a course e 
Filmmakers. They can teach you how to make the 
vision real.
You can enroll to see about the vision, and theft 
create it. Sproule said, “even if you only have th$ 
smallest inkling that this [film] is what you warft 
to do, Filmmakers is there to help you foster thsfi 
idea into something real... they’ve told you howjt
New staff at WRCT brings friendly changes
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
There’s something in the air in Pitts­
burgh, and it’s not just the bad weather. 
WRCT, CMUs student-run radio sta­
tion, has been sending out a variety of 
programs for our listening pleasure. Re­
cently, the station has gone through a 
change in its upper management that 
has transformed it in many aspects and 
has raised students’ expectations for the 
station.
David Hackney, previously a deejay at 
WRCT, is the new general manager. 
Spending countless hours at the station, 
Hackney carries out his various respon­
sibilities that are not always clearly de­
fined.
“I make sure that the station runs 
properly, that meetings go well, and 
that everyone is doing what they’re sup­
posed to be doing,” said Hackney. A 
senior chemistry major, he has spent 
more than a year gaining experience for 
his new position, and with only four 
months of practice under his belt, things 
feel a little new to him.
“I’m still trying to get my shoes bro­
ken in,” he said.
The new general manager is only one 
of the changes that have taken place at 
WRCT. A large number of departmental 
heads have also been replaced by new­
comers.
On the top of that list is Katie Pittman,
the new staff representative. Pittman 
came to the station with a wide realm of 
knowledge about broadcasting, and she 
spent last year training for her position.
The change in management has had a 
positive effect on the station. “It seems
a lot friendlier here, and people are more 
open,” said Hackney.
Steve Snyder, in charge of the jazz, 
blues, and international music said,“I 
think it’s totally great. The new people 
care about the spirit of WRCT as a free­
form radio station, and everyone gets 
along really well.”
In the past, fewer people were taking 
on the same tremendous responsibili­
ties of running a radio station. “Before 
eight to 10 people took all the responsi­
bility and with less enthusiasm,” said 
Synder.
After spending many years at the sta­
tion, the spirit lessened amongst some of 
the older staff members. For that rea­
son, the new management was a wel­
come change.
The energetic new staffs impact on 
the station has been visible at the execu­
tive board meetings. “Before, the meet­
ings would have four to five people in 
them, and now there’s like 10 or 12,” said 
Snyder.
CMU students may think that a ne{f 
group of management would come wit j 
a new batch of entertaining program^ 
However, that is not the case. Much ( 
the style at WRCT is remaining thji 
same. ¡1
It’s still the same free-form radio st4* 
tion that it always was. The statio d 
plays just about anything, from punk t :j 
rap to noise.
Many don’t understand the benefit ( f 
having such a radio station. The answeaf 
is simple. While you don’t get to hear th :} 
music that you want to hear 24 hours ] 
day, you get a great deal of prograir { 
ming variety instead.
Which is what college radio is all abouti 
playing a diverse array of music thai 
isn’t mainstream. “It has anon-commeif*
To a veteran like Snyder, a positive cial appeal to it, and there’s a market fooj 
vork to- that.” »said Mosurak.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
David Hackney, WRCT general manager, sits amused behind a microphone as his 
show goes out over the airwaves.
attitude and a willingness to work to­
gether are vital elements in making a 
station run properly. With a plan to 
leave the station possibly next year, 
Snyder feels good about leaving the sta­
tion to the new staff.
“When I leave, I feel the station will be 
in good hands,” said Snyder. “I have no 
complaints because Dave is really good 
at leading everyone.”
That opinion seems to be the consen­
sus among everyone at WRCT. The pro­
motions director, Doug Mosurak said, 
“The station from year to year has peaks 
and troughs, and we’re at a peak time 
right now.”
that,” *said Mosurak.
“If we played the same things theM 
played on MTV, then we don’t have ] 
reason to exist,” said Hackney.
Mosurak said, “If you want to hea ti­
the same song seven or eight times a dav 
then listen to another radio statioi' 
When you come here (to WRCT), you’rd 
obviously looking for something elsei 
We’re off the cutting edge. We’re off th 3 
cliff and anything goes.”
With an attitude like that and a tru =j 
passion for all kinds of music, the mem \ 
bers of the WRCT staff, both old ami 
new, successfully put together creativ :{ 
and diverse programming.
Killer Tomatoes keep on killing after all these years
File 13
by Carey Clevenger
Once in a lifetime, a movie comes along 
that sets the standard for years to come. 
Sometimes it is heralded as “the next 
Citizen Kane.” Sometimes it goes com­
pletely unnoticed.
Well, as you are probably aware, most 
films that I mention in “File 13” are 
definitely not in either of these two cat­
egories.
However, for this installment, I will 
make an exception. For this week, and
this week only, we will be taking a look 
at the “Citizen Kane of Man-Eating Veg­
etable Films” — Attack of the Killer 
Tomatoes.
The original Attack of the Killer Toma­
toes was released in 1978. The plot is 
pretty straightforward: giant, man-eat­
ing tomatoes go on the rampage.
Only a small team of inept specialists 
can prevent them from taking over the 
world. Members of the team include a 
diver (who spends most of his time swim­
ming around in fountains), an African- 
American'niaster of disguise (who at one 
point passes himself off as Adolf Hitler), 
and a sword-wielding military'guy (who 
spends the entire movie dragging a para­
chute around behind him).
This film is possibly the only film.I 
know of which has credits for actors who 
portray “Deaf/Blind Policeman” and 
“Singing Soldier,” not to mention bril­
liant dialogue such as: “They ate poor 
Jimmy. Ate him all up.” If you’re a fan of 
schlock, or maybe just tomatoes, it’s 
worth looking into.
There have been, to date, three se­
quels. The first, Return of the Killer 
Tomatoes, came out in 1988. The sequel 
was slightly more ambitious than the 
first, and John Astin (Gomez Addams 
himself!) signs on as the evil Dr. Gan­
grene.
It’s also your chance to see George 
Clooney get hit with raw pizza dough 
and not a malpractice suit or something. 
KarenMistal, co-star of Cannibal Women 
in the Avocado Jungle of Death, portrays 
an airheaded bimbo-type for the second 
time in a film taking its title from a fruit 
or vegetable.
Do you think she’s typecast? (Accord­
ing to our friends at the Cardiff Movie 
Browser, she also starred on the short­
lived Fox TV show “The New Adven­
tures of Beans Baxter.” Unfortunately, 
the only other credit they have for her is 
a film entitled Another Chance, and not 
What’s Eating Gilbert Grape? or Herbie 
Goes Bananas.) This one has a habit of 
turning up on the USA Network on the 
weekends (that’s where I saw it), but I’m 
sure you can probably find it on video 
somewhere.
I haven’t seen either of the other two 
sequels, Killer Tomatoes Strike Back
(1990) or Killer Tomatoes Eat France
(1991), primarily because I haven’t found 
them anywhere.
So,if you happen to find copies of them 
anywhere, let me know.
Incidentally, a new “Director’s Cut” of 
the original was released on September 
6, so keep a lookout for it. I don’t know if 
it will be released into the rental market 
or not, as it has a selling price of under
$12 or so (which includes a free packet a j* 
killer tomato seeds).
It supposedly contains cast interview i 
and never-before-seen footage, so it mail 
be worth looking into if you’re a fan 0 £ 
the original version. Maybe we’ll be luck; \ 
enough to have more footage of “Mis 3 
Potato Famine.”
Well, that’s about all for now. I’ll b* 
back next week with a look at comic book} 
superheroes that should have remained ij 
comic book superheroes, and not bij“ 
screen superheroes.
Until then, keep on rockin’ in the fre< 
world.
Carey. Clevenger is a senior creative- 
writing major. He is currently accepting 
donations for his popcorn fund. Check 
out the Cardiff Movie Browser at http^ 
/www.cs.cf.ac.uk/Movies/blurb.html 01 i; 
the Web.

---------------------------------------------------

kÍVolu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Kiss of the Spider Woman meets Broadway standards
Bj! JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor 
tIfiss of the Spider Woman has every­
thing a popular drama should have: big- 
nafae actors, catchy songs, a moving and 
controversial plot, an immense set, lots 
of ¡gloss and bright lights, and lots of
rupted a minor and had nothing to do 
with politics. Until he met Valentin.
Molina falls in love with Valentin, 
slowly but surely, and they begin to 
learn more about each other. Valentin 
has a girlfriend, Marta (Juliet Lambert), 
and we learn that Molina has a fantasy 
life outside of the prison, one involving
movement and comedy. The Phantom of the sumptious Spider Woman, Aurora 
th£ Opera and Cats wouldn’t have gone 
nearly as far if the
Broadway orches­
tré consisted of two 
gu|tars and the set 
wa(s made out of 
bl^ck cubes and 
cr<*pe paper. For 
better or worse, the 
chjome and deco­
ration oiKiss of the 
Spider Woman are 
thp staples of 
Brpadway musi­
cals.
The story, origi­
nally written by 
M4nuel Puig and 
adjapted by 
Te)*rence McNally, 
de^ls with two
mén, Valentin___.. . __________(Dprian Hare ¦ © Pittsburgh Broadway Series
wojod) and Molina Chita Rivera, the spider woman 
(Jijan Chioran), in herself, smokes in style.
a prison in Latin America. The prison, 
ru<i by a manipulative and almost omni- 
scijent Warden (Mark Zimmerman), is a 
Mexican hell where the political prison­
er^ are beaten almost daily. But Molina, 
a homosexual window-dresser, only cor-
(Chita Rivera). The play concerns the 
love of Molina and 
Valentin and the 
Warden’s attempts to 
milk Molina about in­
formation^ concerning 
Valentin’s political com­
rades.
Between the exposi­
tion of the story and the 
scenes of horror in the 
prison, Aurora appears 
and saves the charac­
ters from the realities 
of life with Latin Samba 
rhythms and explosive 
dance numbers. But her 
kiss is deadly. When 
characters die, they re­
ceive a last embrace 
from the Spider Wo­
man.
The design of this mu­
sical, however, is the 
aspect that makes Spi­
der Woman fly. Based on drawings of 
Castro’s Cuban prisons, the set consists 
of layers of cage bars that raise and 
lower, move forward and back, and gen­
erally move about in an incredibly pow­
erful way. When there is tension, the
bars close in. When there is freedom, the 
bars rise and the stage is lit by drawings 
of movie theatres, Russian bridges, and 
all the other dreams dreamt by the pris­
oners. The lights themselves are a feat, 
from the tiny spots that illuminate Au­
rora as they climb a huge wall of bars to 
the lights of Molina’s final dream se­
quence, this production has a bright­
ness and hyper-reality that keeps you 
interested.
The orchestra was strong and the danc­
ers were fluid and graceful. Overall, 
however, the music seemed out of place
with the moody drama. At times, the 
Latin rhythms of Aurora or the up-beat 
songs about morphine and pain don’t 
jibe with torture and political prisoners. 
This doesn’t detract from the produc­
tion, but it does pose a bit of a disconti­
nuity at times.
Rivera, the darling of this production, 
has the most fun in this musical. She 
hams it up and smiles coyly even when 
hanging from bars 50 feet above the 
audience.
Harewood, late of China Beach and 
Full Metal Jacket, is a bit stone-faced
but loosens up by the end of the musical. 
Chioran, as Molina, shines in his part 
throughout and saved some of the more 
disjointed points.
This is a Broadway musical. There is 
little original style in it, but it has all the 
merits of a fine, mainstream musical. It 
is powerful, moving, and loud. There is 
dancing and ravishing leading ladies. 
This is a pageant and less of a play, and 
it does not lack anything except a strong 
dramatic voice. However, it is worth the 
steep ticket prices, and well worth see­
ing.
Pittsburgh Broadway Series
Valentin (Dorian Harewood, right) extends his finger as he argues with Molina (Juan Chioran, left).
One acts make valiant effort 
but fail to entertain writer
Éy ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Junior Staff Writer
! On my way to the City The­
atre to see the Pittsburgh New 
Works Festival of One-Act 
Plays, I was greeted by one of 
several angry protesters, pick­
eting in front of the theatre, 
who tried to dissuade me from 
seeing Squonk Opera’s produc­
tion of Night of the Living Dead
Flaherty’s The Audition, is a light­
hearted and witty look at a timid 
actor’s grueling audition after he 
arrives 20 minutes late.
Leading this play is a stereo­
typical director, Sebastian 
Fenwick III (Mark Yochum, in a 
wonderful performance) whose 
ego is rivaled only in size by his 
vocabulary.
He is also trying to coerce his 
foul-mouthed stage manager,
(also playing at the City The- Irene (Eve Amplas), into sleep 
atre) because “they 
eat real flesh” and 
“appear nude on 
sjtage.”
• (One would think 
He was advertising 
the production, not 
protesting it.)11 was amused.
! Currently show­
ing in the theatre’s appeared on stage
Hamburg Studio are three of ing with him, a suggestion at again, I seriously began to won-
By this point I was looking 
forward to a good comedy to 
lift my spirits. I didn't find 
one.
for his audition and at one point, 
Fenwick orders Barry to “dis­
robe!”
Capp is to be commended for 
performing half the play in just 
his boxers. I had to do that 
once. It wasn’t easy.
It made me wonder why the 
conservative protesters outside 
had nothing against this play. 
Ah, the biases of censorship....
The second piece, Erin 
Dovichin’s Eclipses, is a thor­
oughly uninteresting, 
melodramatic ex­
change between a 
poet (Charles David 
Richards) and the 
ghost of his lover 
(Bryn Jameson), 
whom he murders at 
the opening. (When 
she died and suddenly
this year’s 12 (out of 132 sub­
mitted) winning plays.
1 The first of these, Sean
which she scoffs loudly. Irene 
reads with our shy protagonist, 
Barry Berkebile (Daniel Capp),
der if I was seeing the right 
show.) My favorite lines were, 
Please see THEATER, page L13
Pittsburgh Symphony rocks
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or­
chestra (PSO) gave the first in its 
set of four Professionals’ Night 
concerts last Thursday in the 
newly renovated Heinz Hall. Pia­
nist Horacio Gutiérrez and guest 
conductor Leslie B. Dunner per­
formed works by Frederic Chopin, 
Richard Strauss, and Paul 
Hindemith. What struck me first 
that evening, however, was not 
the music but the hall itself.
The old Heinz Hall, for those 
who have seen it, ranked closely 
with Skibo and Donner Hall as 
one of the most “interesting” ar­
chitectural designs ever thought 
up. I often wondered what strange 
mental side effects might occur 
were anyone to actually visit all 
three places in the course of one 
day. Just as Skibo gave way to 
the more pleasing Student Cen­
ter, so too did the old Heinz Hall 
transform itself into a lovely, 
acoustically-correct theater 
(wishful thinking would lead one 
to believe that Donner Hall is 
next).
The new hall has been painted 
a very tasteful shade of maroon, 
and the in-laid wood paneling 
creates a beautiful setting which 
emphasizes the'grandeur of a full 
orchestra. More importantly, the 
level of sound quality has risen 
an order of magnitude. Specifi­
cally, the orchestra sounds fuller, 
and the listener can more easily 
hear the contrasting timbres of 
each section. The sheer volume of 
sound, which was too low in the 
original hall, has now been re­
stored to its fullest level. An or­
chestra the caliber of the Pitts­
burgh Symphony both needed and 
deserved such an improvement.
When the orchestra began to 
perform the first few bars of 
Strauss’s orchestral showpiece, 
Don Juan, I could immediately 
notice a significant difference. 
Considered an extremely virtu- 
osic piece, this tone poem empha­
sizes the true power and expres­
sive capabilities that a full or­
chestra can unleash.
Though it was not the most 
memorable performance, the 
PSO’s playing of this old stan­
dard was certainly in league with
any of the great United States 
orchestras. The orchestral per­
formance was consistently clean 
and together while Dunner’s con­
ducting brought out all of the 
romantic charm of this piece with 
significant ease.
The PSO gave a more interest­
ing performance of a lesser-known 
20th century composition by Paul 
Hindemith. Written in celebra­
tion of the bicentennial of Pitts­
burgh, Pittsburgh Symphony is 
an eclectic symphonic mixture of 
Pittsburgh culture, history, and 
Pennsylvania Dutch charm. As is 
usual with most pieces by 
Hindemith, this work features 
extremely dissonant contrapun­
tal and harmonic devices within 
a tonal background.
Although a tad stuffy and intel­
lectual, Hindemith’s very ne­
glected musical repertoire con­
tains some of the most interest­
ing and beautiful passages in all 
of 20th century music. Pittsburgh 
Symphony is no exception. The 
PSO brought out all of the in­
triguing moments this work has 
to offer. From the energetic varia-
Please see SYMPHONY, page L13
ATTENTION 
Students & Faculty
! The Bell Atlantic Mobile Van Will Be On Campus 
This Tuesday, September 26 
At The Warner Hall Parking Lot 
9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Stop by for the latest in cellular phones, 
j accessories, services and live wireless data applications.
New activation and credit approval is required.
i
For more information call Erin Connolly at 635-2031
@ Bell Atlantic NYNEX Mobilei
C “
A Mobile Services Joint Venture
Career opportunities 
at J.P. Morgan
for Carnegie Melton students interested in
Audit Plus
Equity Research Associate 
Global Technolpgv and Operations
Please plan to attend our 
information presentation on 
Thursday, October .5 
6:00- S:00 pm
Madge ¡Munge, Mudge llall 
All majors welcome
JP Morgan
Internet littp:/Avw>v.jpmor{;an.com
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddUkSN
Strange Days holds true to name
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
Usually when I sit down to write these 
reviews I have a pretty concise idea of 
what I want to say. With Strange Days, 
however, it’s a bit tougher because there’s 
so much packed into this movie that I 
¿almost don’t know where to start.
What: Strange Days 
Director: Kathryn Bigelow 
Company: 20th Century Fox
| So I’m just going to take a deep breath, 
Wive in, and hope that by the end of this 
article, you will have decided to go see 
this movie.
Strange Days takes place in Los Ange­
les, 1999, on the eve of the 
Millennium. It stars 
Ralph Fiennes, the bril­
liant actor from Quiz 
Show, who was nomi­
nated for an Oscar for his 
portrayal of S.S. Com­
mandant Amon Goeth in 
Schindler’s List. In 
Strange Days, he plays 
Lenny Nero, an ex-cop 
who has become involved 
in the illegal sale of sec­
ond-hand experiences.
¦Let me explain: there are 
these little discs that look 
like mini CD’s and they 
can record a person’s ex­
perience as it’s happen­
ing as long as the person is wearing this 
wire thing on his or her head. Then 
Lenny takes these “clips” and he sells 
them to people who then put the wire 
thing on their head and can experience 
“playback.” This means that they can 
experience exactly what is on the clip as 
if it is really happening. It’s called “be­
ing wired” and they see, feel, hear, taste, 
and smell whatever the person did when 
it actually happened. As Lenny puts it, 
“This is not like TV only better. This is 
life—a piece of somebody’s life, straight 
from the cerebral cortex.” He tells one 
customer, “It’s about the stuff that you 
can’t have, right? The forbidden fruit...” 
The device was invented in order for
federal agents to replace the body wire who, before his death, had been pur- 
but somehow, became an underground posely pushing racial tensions to the 
source for deals and dirty money; vir- point of revolt. Because of Lenny’s “ca-
tual reality taken to extremes.
I would have thought that this was 
enough to make a pretty good movie, but 
it doesn’t stop there. At first I was won­
dering a little what the conflict really 
was. Well, I asked for it and I got it, and 
then some. Since it takes place just be­
fore the world moves on to 2000 A.D., 
there’s the insanity of the ultimate New 
Year’s Eve party thrown in to add some 
more excitement. In addition, there are 
Mace andMax, played by Angela Bassett, 
Oscar-nominee for her portrayal of Tina 
Turner in What’s Love Got to Do With 
It?, and Tom Sizemore, who was in True 
Romance, Natural Born Killers, and the
© 20th Century Fox
Ralph Fiennes as Larry Nero enjoys the new millennium party.
recent Devil in a Blue Dress. These two 
are friends of Lenny’s who have stories 
of their own but initially serve to help 
Lenny out before they become twisted 
into the plot and their stories unfold 
also.
Then there’s Lenny’s ex-girlfriend 
Faith, played by the always wonderfully 
bizarre Juliette Lewis. Lenny is watch­
ing out for her (while also hoping to win 
back her heart) since her friend Iris 
(Brigitte Bako) was the victim of a 
strange and violent murder and Faith 
may also be in danger.
But what the movie really starts to 
revolve around is the mysterious mur­
der of rapper Jeriko One (Glen Plummer),
reer," he becomes involved with all of 
these conflicts which eventually fit to­
gether into a crazy puzzle.
With all of these elements together, 
Strange Days is a terrific cyber-thriller 
that will hold you riveted and some­
times horrified until the very end. The 
action is non-stop and Fiennes, though 
scruffy and greasy through the entire 
movie, can’t hide his rosy complexion 
and bright eyes that make him the per­
fect candidate to be in a milk commer­
cial. His character has a dry wit that 
helps him through the whole mess, and 
it’s always great to see an actor who’s 
able to take on such different roles and 
play them all so perfectly.
The editing is very quick, 
working to keep the movie 
fast-paced and fluid. The 
crowd scenes are amazing as 
are the shots of the violent 
streets of L.A. The movie’s 
portrayal of this not-so-dis- 
tant future doesn’t go over 
the line and become unreal­
istic, as often tends to hap­
pen.
It makes you wonder how 
much is out there that we 
really don’t know about — 
it’s frightening to think that 
such things could be part of 
our lives in just a few years. 
I found myself wondering 
why this movie was released in the fall 
rather than the summer (the usual time 
for big-budget action flicks), but I real­
ized that the movie is more cerebral (no 
pun intended) than the typical jump- 
shoot-fight-kill-shoot Bruce and Arnold 
movies. Yet it was easy to follow and I 
didn’t feel bogged down by the loaded 
plot.
My only complaint was that the movie 
got way too heavy on the political, social, 
and racial issues. It made me feel a little 
like they thought I needed to be taught 
a lesson about something, and that’s 
just not what I go to the movies for. Still, 
it’s a good time without mindlessness 
Audiences should find it a winner.
Album enhances 
romantic feeling
album was over before I knew it, and 
I hit repeat.
The second time around, I began to 
pick up on all the little extras that 
Esteban puts into his guitar playing. 
His interpretations of old favorites 
like “When You Wish Upon a Star” 
and “A Groovy Kind of Love,” made 
me wish that I had taken up the 
guitar when I was younger. Old 
favorites aren’t all that he does.
—-——-———— Newer songs include “Lady in Red” 
I was just about to do the dance of by Chris DeBurgh and “Right Here 
joy when I realized that the album Waiting” by Richard Marx, 
was a flamenco guitarist named Then he crosses the cultural bar- 
Esteban who decided to re-do all of rier from both sides, 
the popular love songs. On the top, Broadway favorites
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
I got something that was totally 
new for me this week. I got an album 
on it with songs that I recognized at 
first glance. I couldn’t believe it.
Who: Esteban
What: Songs From My Heart 
Label: Day star Productions
Now, I don’t 
know about 
you, but 
when I think 
of flamenco 
guitarists, I 
have a hard 
time shaking 
this image of 
Charo going 
“ C u c h e e ,
Cuchee.”Yes, 
pretty fright­
ening.
So, I was 
hesitant at 
best to even 
put this CD 
into my ste­
reo. I sat look­
ing at all the songs on the cover.
© Daystar Productions 
Esteban tries real hard to put out an album 
worth hearing. Did he? You decide.
such as “All I 
Ask of You” 
from Phantom 
of the Opera 
and“Don’t Cry 
for Me Argen­
tina” also from 
Andrew Lloyd 
Webber’s im­
pressive stock 
of musicals ap­
pear. On the 
bottom, he 
plays tradi­
tional Spanish 
songs that 
have been re­
arranged by 
Esteban him­
self.
So guys, this is it. The latest “Ro-
The album contains 21 tracks, all of mantic Evening” album. Pop it into
which were either re-interpreted or 
arranged by Esteban himself. I de­
cided that since I knew more than half 
of the songs, that I would give it a 
listen.
I thought that at the very least it 
would be a good laugh.
Boy, was I wrong. Unless you are 
really paying attention, you can barely 
tell that it’s a flamenco album instead 
of just a guitar instrumental. The
the CD player, turn the lights down 
low, and just let go.
And as for the ladies, you’ll enjoy 
the light stylings when you’re study­
ing or just hanging out in your room 
trying to remember when the last 
time you slept was.
All in all, I highly recommend this 
album for both instrumental enthu­
siasts and guitar lovers alike. Enjoy, 
and don’t forget to dim the lights.
Safe gives audience genuine scare
By W. LABEIKOVSKY
Tzrtan Staffwriter
The best horror movies putfear 
into our everyday lives. Jaws 
made you avoid the beach for a 
while. Any Dario Argento movie 
will keep you from turning your 
light off before bedtime.
What: Safe 
Director: Todd Haynes 
Company: Sony Pictures
Still, these movies are rather 
lame by comparison. After all, no 
sharks are going to get you on dry 
land and no primeval witch is 
going to slice up your throat at 
noon.
Thus, the next step is that ulti­
mate bogeyman, the evil spirit. 
Freddy was an attempt to achieve 
that but his bad puns just got in 
the way of scaring you. One of the 
most terrifying yet is that people- 
possessing, girl-molesting, poem- 
chanting BOB guy from “Twin 
Peaks,” and that was “just a TV 
show.” However, by convincing 
yourself that you don’t believe in 
that stuff, you can sleep in the 
dark again.
We see that 
concrete fear is 
not what it used 
to be. So we get 
the next best 
thing: down­
right paranoia.
First it was 
them commu­
nists and spies 
which we could 
always get rid of 
with the help of 
Chuck Norris.
Since then, 
we’ve been bom­
barded with mi­
crobes, dino­
saurs in the 
dark, the one- 
night-stand
house. You’re safe.
But what if it could? In Todd 
Haynes’ Safe, Carol White 
(Julianne Moore) is a housew—, 
er, homemaker up in the L.A. 
suburbs.
Her life is cozy and dull. Re­
decoration, shopping, dinner par­
ties, lunch with fellow wives — 
these fill Carol’s days. She goes 
through life fast asleep, a South­
ern Californian zombie in a world 
of art-deco hell.
Carol’s world is more sterile, 
lifeless, and alienating than any­
thing Orwell or Kubrick ever 
imagined. The interior of her 
house (and her friends’) is a cross 
between a morgue and the 
Guggenheim. The people speak 
in a prefabricated meaningless 
doublespeak.
Phrases like “emotion control” 
and “stress management” are 
thrown in as a point. A mother’s 
excuse to ignore her daughter is 
that she needs to “spend some 
grown-up time.” It doesn’t take 
long before one realizes that these 
people can’t say anything to each 
other.Then one day it all comes 
tumbling down. Carol can’t stop 
coughing when she gets a little
thinks it is just stress. But when 
it keeps on getting worse, she 
gets diagnosed with Environmen­
tal Illness, also known as 20th 
Century Disease.
Everyday chemicals are toxic 
to Carol and when the reactions 
start getting too strong she de­
cides to go to
roundings is experienced as a cri­
sis of identity.” But indeed, Carol 
has our sympathy, for we our­
selves are not sure of who we are.
Again, the point is not to judge 
Carol nor her surroundings but 
to look a bit closer and be aware 
of what is really happening. In
© Sony Pictures Classics
Peter Friedman stands in front of people.ror movie.
However, Safe is not that simple.
When Carol arrives to the heal-
ing camp, she begins to under­
stand what we’ve suspected for 
some time, she has virtually no 
will, no life of her own, and it has
this aspect, Haynes’ direction is 
appropriately detached. He 
doesn’t tell us whether we should 
laugh at or blindly follow Carol’s 
healers; it is up to us and perhaps 
we should do a little bit of both.
Symphony pleases 
ears with melodies
SYMPHONY, from LL2
tions in the first movement, to 
the slow march in the second 
movement, to the “Pittsburgh is 
a great old town” finale, the PSO 
never missed a beat. Dunner’s 
conducting made sense out of 
this difficult piece, and the PSO 
effectively combined each of its 
orchestral variations to relay the 
work’s overall unity.
The highlight of the concert, 
however, was Horacio 
Gutiérrez’s playing of Chopin’s 
first piano concerto. The first 
movement, however, started off 
a tad slow. Perhaps the orches­
tra was recovering from the pre­
vious work, or perhaps Gutiérrez 
was admiring the new Heinz 
Hall.
The playing of both the or­
chestra and soloist seemed frag- 
mented. Dunner stumbled 
through the first movement,
never being able to coordinate 
soloist with ensemble. Fortu­
nately, the second movement 
went smoothly, bringing out 
the richness of the romance.
Gutiérrez effortlessly played 
Chopin as well as anyone I 
have heard on the concert 
stage. His playing brings out 
all of the inherent romantic 
passion in Chopin’s writing 
while maintaining a level of 
dignity that many pianists (es­
pecially pianists who special­
ize in Chopin) lack. The PSO 
captured the wonderfully exu­
berant nature of the famous 
theme from the third move­
ment. Gutiérrez and the PSO 
finished strong by illustrating 
the liveliness of the finale. With 
a new hall and a top-notch or­
chestra, upcoming perfor­
mances of the PSO are not to 
be missed.
taken this extreme condition for The tapes and the lectures Carol 
her to start listens to as well as the circle of 
realizing it. homemakers are easy to satirize, 
As Haynes but again this is not the basic 
puts it, “If intention although the irony 
she can no never escapes us.
© Sony Pictures Classics 
Julianne Moore stands in a room. There is a piano in the room.
that could be an aliein and so, ad 
mfinitum. After the movie ends , 
We know that it won’t really get 
Us- The monster is so extraordi­
nary that it can’t come to your
longer drive 
on the free­
way or perm 
her hair or 
buy new fur­
niture then 
who is she? 
And more 
importantly, 
who are we?
What kind 
of identifica­
tion can we 
expect to 
make in a 
character
too much exhaust fume. She gets with no identity?” because after 
a bloody nose when getting a perm all, “Carol’s understanding of her-; 
and vomits when she smells her self is fully determined by the 
husband’s deodorant. At first she world in which she lives. Her in- 
tor rather the people around her) creasing intolerance to her sur-
This is part of what makes Safe 
such a wonderful movie. Most 
current movies with a similar 
subject would rely on the exag­
geration and the panic. We would 
see a hysterical Carol and many 
shots of people acting melodra­
matically perplexed.
The relative quiet ofSafe makes 
it possible for it to hint at many 
issues about our lives without 
nagging or preaching. It all makes 
for a beautiful, scary, and timely 
story; and with Moore’s amazing 
performance, one of the best mov­
ies of the year.
Safe is now playing at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse down on Craft 
Ave., Oakland. Todd Haynes’first 
film, Poison, is available on video.
Theater fails to meet 
critic’s expectations
THEATER, from L12
“I’m in waiting. Waiting for my 
own disillusion,” and, “How 
long did my hand stay warm?”
That about sums up the feel 
of the play. I felt sorry for the 
talented Richards who was 
forced to work with an unfo­
cused, self-indulgent script and 
an actress who never seems to 
have learned one of the princi­
pal rules of acting: listen to the 
other actor.
By this point, I was looking 
forward to a good comedy to lift 
my spirits.
I didn’t find one. William 
Loeffler’s My Dog has no Nose 
takes place in the State Frame 
Auto Insurance office on the 
Friday afternoon before Labor 
Day weekend. The three char­
acters, Leah (Katina Fort6), 
Mark (David Fielding) and the
less-than-stable Dan (Colin 
Doty), spend the entire time 
screaming obscenities at each 
other at a volume and pitch 
that make you kick yourself 
for having left that Excedrin 
bottle at home.
The swearing, unlike in The 
Audition, is rampant and un­
necessary, the characters are 
two-dimensional, and the dia­
logue is rapacious and over 
the top.
Altogether, it was an unre­
markable — although cer­
tainly not wasted — night of 
theatre. Maybe I’ll go seeNight 
of the Living Dead next week, 
if only to spite the 
protesters.The City Theatre is 
showcasing these and other 
works through October 1.
For more information, call 
431-4900.

---------------------------------------------------

kS4olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddU
Porch remains in the basement
-By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
“Damn I’m Lazy.” It isn’t often that 
, you see that written down as a song title.
. However, on Porch’s self- titled cd, that’s 
, just what the first track was called. So, 
right from the very beginning I was 
.hooked. And, as I listened to thecd I 
, began to read the publicity header that 
..came with it. As it turns out, I no longer 
, need to wonder where they got their 
..titles.
Who: Porch 
Album: Porch 
Label: Prawn Song
The lead vocalist for the group is Todd 
, Huth, who was originally a member of 
Primus. To me, that explained the pecu- 
liar names on the cd. The tracks range 
,from “Bum Holy” to “Your Hair.”
The album, released on Prawn Song 
Records, is both a thrill and a disap- 
, pointment. With the background of the 
. band, I was expecting a little more than 
. I got. The first track was about 36 sec­
onds long. I liked that. Easy quick lis- 
l tening for those with an attention disor- 
. der. The following three songs, though, 
" all sounded the same. Except for Huth’s
varied mumblings, it’s hard to tell one 
track from another.
After the fourth or fifth track, the 
band seems to get it back together and 
begins to show true talent. This talent is 
most apparent on track six. “Dip” has 
highs, lows, in-betweens, and then some. 
The song starts 
off with the 
same driving 
electric guitar 
beat that just 
about every­
thing else on the 
¦ album does.
Unlike the rest 
of the album, 
though, this 
song improves.
It moves from 
the already 
tired- out punk- 
mumbling into 
something that 
can almost be 
classified as 
pseudo-intelli­
gible.
The album seems to perk up a little 
from there. The next three songs are just 
slight variations on each other, and al­
though the song is good once, three’s a
This is Porch.
crowd on this album. I would have to say 
the best of the three is track eight, “Ice­
berg.” Huth calls this track, “a very vivid 
dream I had that I wrote down.” You can 
tell. Nothing on this album approaches 
the realm of the believable.
Now, don’t get me wrong. I’m not say­
ing that you 
shouldn’t buy this 
album. It is a good 
listen the first 
time, through. 
However, after 
that the songs be­
come cumbersome 
and tiring.
Even the band’s 
cover of the Pre­
tenders’“Tattooed 
Love Boys” just 
isn’t up to par, and 
standards on re­
makes are usually 
pretty low.
So, final advice 
... don’t pay full 
price for the al­
bum, but if it hap­
pens to jump out at you from a sale bin 
at the used CD shop, then by all means 
snag it up, give it a whirl, and return it 
the next day.
Prawn Song Records
New comic eases mental anguish
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
Remember watching Godzilla 
wreak havoc in Japan on Saturday 
, mornings? How about Ultraman sav­
ing the day after school? Well, all the 
;fun and excitement (and the 
cheesiness) of Godzilla and Ultraman 
f has been brought to comics by Frank 
Miller and Geof Darrow in The Big 
t Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot, pub­
lished under the Legend imprint of 
Dark Horse. This larger than life 
story is presented in larger than 
j comic book size — 9x12.
. From the creators of the bloody 
Hard Boiled comes a lighthearted 
book that is well written, beautifully 
•drawn, and really suitable for all 
ages. All the violence is so overdone 
it’s harmless, and there is a clear 
^moral to the story. Even though the 
*book may seem childish, that doesn’t 
mean it isn’t professional.
This book is the perfect (I hate to 
say this because it sounds so insult­
ing) “no-brainer” to kick back with 
after a stressful day. It isn’t overly origi­
nal, and you don’t have be a geneticist to 
understand it. It’s just pure fun in the 
• vein of those schlocky sci-fi movies of the
1960s. What isn’t fun about a giant sen­
tient lizard rampaging through Tokyo 
until he’s thwarted by a guy in a robot 
suit?
Miller, famous for his work with Dare­
devil and Batman, makes up for a sim­
plistic plot with catchy dialogue like, 
“Ah! From inside the toy — another toy 
— tossing still more toys!”
I think Miller may have been a little 
tired of the serious crime noir that he’s
making his religious beliefs known in 
this book through the Big Guy. Sure, 
this might only be his characterization, 
but after reading Miller’s eulogy to Jack 
Kirby, I suspect he is making a subtle 
religious statement.
In addition to Miller’s fine writing, 
Darrow turns out some of the best art­
work of his career. This stuff would even 
turn the head of the most devout Image 
fan. Miller once described his accom­
plice as the most detailed artist in 
the business.
If you doubt him, just check out the 
back cover of issue #2. There aren’t 
many artists who take the time (or 
have the talent of detail) to draw the 
nuts and bolts of a car, or even the 
lever to move the seat back. After 
looking at the extremely fine detail, 
I can excuse this book’s lateness, 
unlike the aforementioned Image 
crap. This oversize format is perfect 
to showcase Darrow’s exquisite art­
work.
If you’re in the mood for some guilty 
pleasures, pick up both issues of The 
Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot. It’s 
only a little more expensive than a 
few Godzilla movies and not nearly 
as demeaning to Japanese culture.
Band sells out 
on new label
By NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Buried beneath the glossy pages and 
insipid lyrics which comprise the book­
let inside the Dance Hall Crashers 
newest release, Lockjaw, lie two little 
words: “MCA Records.”
Who: Dance Hall Crashers
What: Lockjaw
Label: (510) Records/MCA
The Crashers have jumped ship to a 
major label, and they, along with MCA, 
are doing everything in their power to 
make you think otherwise. “(510)
Records” is stamped all over this disc 
in an attempt to make the average 
consumer believe Lockjaw is being 
released by some “ultra-hip” indepen­
dent label, automatically making it 
cool among the “al­
ternative” crowd.
This trend is becom­
ing more and more 
evident: huge record 
conglomerates estab­
lish “pseudo-indies” 
in order to m ake their 
bands seem more 
credible.
Attempting to hide 
the fact that they’re © (510) Records/MCA
on a major label also makes the Crash- Dance Hall Crashers and.
ers look very guilty of selling out, which 
is precisely what they’ve done on Lock­
jaw. For a brief period starting in 
about 1989, the Dance Hall Crashers 
were' a mediocre Berkeley, CA, ska- 
punk band putting out records on New 
York indie Moon Records.
Now they’ve dropped their horn sec­
tion, which was one of the band’s few 
redeeming qualities, and made them­
selves MTV-ready, complete with 
crunchy pop-punk hooks and that 
happy-go-lucky Green Day attitude 
that all the kids plop down their pocket 
change for these days. Only a hint of 
ska remains as well, making it even 
more obvious that the Crashers are 
paying more attention to what sells 
than to artistic merit.
The vocal harmonies of Elyse Rogers 
and Karina Denike are the focal point 
of most of these tunes, and they would 
carry more weight if the lyrics weren’t 
quite so vacuous.
“Don’t Wanna Behave” is burdened 
with the incredibly meaningful cho­
rus of “I don’t wanna behave (whoa- 
ho-ho)/1 don’t wanna behave (whoa- 
ho-ho)/1 don’t wanna behave (whoa- 
ho-ho)/ and I don’t wanna live up to 
your standards.” Even the songs that 
feature a slight bit of ska, such as 
“Flyin” and “Buried Alive,” sound in­
credibly limp without a horn section. 
Uncreative, misplaced guitar work 
doesn’t help much either.
The solos in “Good for Nothin” sound 
obligatory and trite, and the processed, 
shiny punk sound of guitarists Jason 
Hammon and Scott Goodell in “Sticky” 
makes the song seem suited for acces­
sibility and mass consumption.
“Too Late” charts the same over­
explored pop-punk waters, and “Go” 
features the particularly brainless 
chorus “Wanna go with you but I think 
I’ll stay/ Wanna go with you but I 
think I’ll stay/ Wanna go with you but 
I think I’ll stay/ 
Wanna go with you 
but I think I’ll stay.” 
“Pictures” was 
penned by Tim 
Armstrong, former 
member of ska-punk 
innovators Operation 
Ivy and present mem­
ber of Rancid. He also 
was part of the initial 
incarnation of the 
based on
his work with Op Ivy and Rancid, this 
tune would have been much more 
effectively executed if he had saved it 
for himself. “Day Job,” “So Sue Us,” 
and “We Owe” continue this seem- 
ingly-unbreakable pattern of formu­
laic drivel, so much so that this album 
is almost painful to listen to all the 
way through. Lockjaw isnothingmore 
than an obvious attempt by the Dance 
Hall Crashers to fatten their bank 
accounts.
They are simply mimicking the 
moves made by droves of equally 
meaningless bands because it is a 
proven way to sell records. There are 
plenty of bands who are infinitely 
more adept at lighthearted, fun punk 
and ska, such as the Fastbacks and 
Let’s Go Bowling.
In fact, it will be quite a surprise if 
the Dance Hall Crashers aren’t rel­
egated to the creative wasteland of 
the MTV Buzz Bin in the near future. 
Undoubtedly, nothing could make the 
Crashers, or MCA, happier.
Jason An­
dracki is a jun­
ior professional © Big Guy Comics ...writing major.
been writing with Sin City, and The Big He is very happy the 
Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot was some- Power Rangers did 
thing he did to relax. An interesting not make a guest 
thing I noticed is that Miller seems to be appearance.
Looking to furnish your apartment? 
We have what you need.
You’ll have cash to spare for 
extracurricular activities! 
USED HOTEL FURNITU RE 
SAVE 50% - 90% everyday
200 N. Braddock st. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15208 
(near intersection of 
Braddock and Penn Ave.)
(412) 781 - 9856
Hours: 10-5 
Closed Sun & Tues. 
Mastercard & Visa
Cross
Training.
These days, to stay ahead of the game, you need more than ability. You need versatility. The more 
you can bring to the team, the more chances you have to be akey play«1.
At Ernst & Young, every Management Consultant is cross-trained in Information Technology (IT) 
and Performance Improvement. Our integrated approach gives our knowledge-based consultants more 
involvement, more responsibility, and more opportunities to deliver value.
Era* & Young LLP 
Information Technology Consulting 
is Coming to Campus 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28,1995 
7pm - 9pm • 1st Floor, Carnegie Conference Room, Warner Hall 
for an Informational Presentation 
Casual Business Attire
Please join us for an informational presentation oo THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28. A reception 
will follow the presentation.
Ernst & Young, an equal opportunity employer, values the diversity of our workforce and the 
knowledge of our people.
ill Yarde opnsrw iit

---------------------------------------------------

olu ome9m0 , Ime0us4u Cuaar0 n04guei49M , VU vut9uy’ue SddUkÌU
Thursday, September 28Hair
This, my friends and neighbors, is the dawning 
of the age of pee-pees. This musical, based on 
some guy’s acid trip or something, is about a 
bumpkin who gets naked with a bunch of damn 
hippies. Choreographed by Twayla Tharp and 
written by two guys with long names, this movie 
stars Nell Carter, the lady on Who’s the Boss or 
whatever. It’s got a scene where everybody gets 
naked, so that’s a plus. I mean, nakedness is next 
to godliness. Can’t get enough of that naked 
crisp.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, September 29
The Basketball Diaries
Well, this movie is about a kid named Jim 
Carroll who gets hopped up on goofballs and 
finds out he really likes it. I mean really, really 
likes it. He’s seeing big birds coming out of his 
mom’s head and he really, really, really likes 
that. You know?
So Jimmy and his pals are drug addicts. And, 
unusually, they play basketball. Basketball and 
drugs. Drugs and basketball. That’s pretty much 
the gist of it. Sure there are some points where 
they sermonize about the evils of Henry the 
Horse. Sure there are times when Jimmy hits 
rock bottom and starts licking his own foot and 
telling himself it’s time to make the donuts. 
Sure, that’s all in there.
So, it’s the real-life story of Jimmy and nose- 
candy. There’s some interesting acting by 
Leonardo DiCaprio and Marky-Mark “Pee-pee” 
Wahlberg. There’s a novel that it was based on, 
so there’s some credibility to it. Can’t get enough 
of that crack crisp.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, September 30Pocahontas
Snark-a-hontas is the story of an Indian maiden 
who sees a big horse. She gets on the horse and 
runs around and sees this guy named John 
Smith (which is a stupid name because everyone 
knew he made it up.) So John Smith is with all 
these Nazi Europeans who want to destroy the 
spirts of nature and trees and all the rabid little 
monkeys that live in them and stuff. So John 
Smith is slowly turned on to the natural and kind 
way of life, so he and Snark-a-hontas team up 
and open a natural food store and wear funny 
wool hats and talk about rivers and love of the 
Shaman spirit.
Actually, John Smith takes off and does body 
piercing booths at Lollapalooza and joins Earth 
First! or something, leaving Snark-a-hontas all 
alone. Ain’t love sad.
So this is a Disney movie. You know you’re 
going to see it, anyway, so no worries.
At 4, 6, 8,10 pm, midnight, and 1:30 am.
Sunday, October 1
Aileen Wuornos: The Sell­
ing of a Serial-Killer
Killing multiple people is a tough job. The 
killer is wrought with prejudices from all sides. 
His background is questioned. He gets his head 
shaved and is fried like a Baco. This film exam­
ines the role the media plays in the life of one 
serial-killer, Aileen Wuornos.
While this movie is not wrought with zombies 
or evil dead, this is still kind of scary stuff. See it 
with the lights on. Also, they say there might be 
an extra special surprise for you if you go see the 
movie. That’s pretty interesting in itself. Go to it.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Writer keeps promise, gets tattoò
By DAWN WALLHAUSEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Well folks, here it is — the grand finale in my series on body art. 
I did as promised in last week’s article, and got myself a tattoo. It’s 
stinging under its protective covering as I write.
I’ve been wanting one of these for years. I’ve been seriously 
considering it since high school. But back then I was too unsure of 
what I wanted to get, and most significantly, too young. So, I waited 
and considered my options.
By the time I reached the 
age of consent (18 in most 
places), I had decided that 
my tattoo would be one of 
two things, both of which 
are fairly significant to my 
life.
One of the possibilities 
involved Swedish scrollwork 
in either armband form or 
something shaped like a love 
knot. For those of you who 
are unfamiliar with the con- 
cept of Swedish scrollwork, Preparations for artwork begin, 
it looks pretty much like a bunch of intertwined vines. Love knots 
take those vines and twist them into a bow.
Swedish designs are significant to me because a fall half of my 
heritage is Swedish.
The second thing I considered was a sun with a face, drawn like 
something out of an old-fashioned etching. My first name being 
Dawn, suns have long been a personal symbol of mine. I tend to
accompany my signa­
ture with one. This is 
what I settled on in 
the end.
The next hurdle in 
getting this tattoo 
thing done was figur­
ing out where to put 
it. I wanted it some­
where that it would be 
visible when I wanted 
it to be; where it could 
be covered by business 
clothes, but showing 
if I’m wearing a bath­
ing suit.
I waffled between 
upper arm, shoulder, 
stomach, thigh, and upper calf for some time.
I had almost completely settled on my stomach as a good place to 
mark my body, when someone mentioned my recent weight loss. 
This got me wondering about how my tattoo might warp if I lost more 
weight, or conversely, if I ever got pregnant. That ruled out the 
stomach area for me.
Although I was assured by body art collectors and tattoo artists 
alike that it usually requires very rapid loss or gaining of weight to 
distort tattoos on other parts of the body I, was still a bit concerned. 
I wanted to be sure, so I thought maybe I should get it on a part of 
me that would almost always be fairly firm.
The problem is, the most perpetually firm .parts of the body are 
usually also rather bony. For those of you who read last week’s epic, 
you know that several people told me that the work closest to bone
All photos by Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
The needle does its thing.
hurts the most. I hate pain. Pain sucks. Pain scares me. I wanted to 
make this as comfortable for myself as possible.
To make a long story short, I got my little sun guy on my upper c&lf. 
I figured that my calves change very little, and yet they’re still mostly 
muscle. I’m not too worried about it showing there during'an 
interview, either. Most of my serious clothes are long skirts or padts.
A good number of people that I spoke to last week about ttieir 
tattoos had gotten them here in Pittsburgh at Inka Dinka Doo. It’s 
on the third floor of a building that looks out over Forbes AvenUe, 
about a block or two up from the Original Hot Dog Stand. It’s clbse 
by, their prices are reasonable, and everyone I asked was pleaded 
with Inka Dinka Doo’s work.
But most importantly, I had checked out their procedures before 
going in. They make their own needles, sterilize them in an auto­
clave, and dispose of them after each use.
I walked into the shop around two o’clock in the afternoon. There 
were brightly colored funky murals on virtually every wall and on 
the ceilings, as well as posters, bumper stickers, etc. The steteo 
blared punk-flavored hard core industrial music, and the buzz 6f a 
tattooing needle could be heard in one of the rooms off to the side. I 
had expected to be quite nervous by this point, but I think I was too 
distracted and intrigued to be afraid.
There were portfolios from Inka Dinka Doo’s artists in the waiting 
room, as well as magazines filled with the work of other tattoo 
artists. I also noticed a checklist for determining quality tattoos. I 
glanced through one of the 
portfolios. It was all pretty 
impressive.
After a short wait, they sent 
me to an artist named Aaron.
He had tattoos covering most 
of the length of his arms, as 
well as some on his neck and 
head. It was all incredibly 
intricate work, and most of it 
was in areas where it should 
have hurt like a bitch.
I gave Aaron the print of what I wanted to get on my Ta-da! Dawn is marked forever. ^ 
leg. He sketched it out in the size I wanted — it’s about an inch; in 
diameter — and made it into a stencil. He then made me sign a 
release form and explained what the needle would do to me.
By the time Aaron applied the stencil to my leg, I was beginning 
to fear the needle. When he took it out of its wrapping and showed 
it to me, it got worse. But I calmed down when he demonstrated how 
far the needle would pierce my skin. It doesn’t penetrate very far at 
all.
Aaron started tracing the outline first, a little at a time to let ¡me 
see how it felt. I was pleasantly surprised. Aaron said that the 
outlining hurts more than the shading because the needles ‘for 
outlines are more complex, but it didn’t hurt all that much. It burned, 
stung, and even tickled a little, but it wasn’t nearly as bad as I 
thought it would be.
The only part that made me start to sweat was the tiny bit that 
came close to the bone.
When it was all over, Aaron put some ointment on my new tattoo 
and covered it, then gave me some advice about care. The folks at 
Inka Dinka Doo recommend keeping new tattoos covered for four 
hours, treating them with Bacitracin or Neosporin for five days, and 
staying out of the sun for 10 days.
Finally, I paid the nice man, and was on my way. I’m quite pleased 
with the results. In fact, I’m considering another one; maybe the 
scrollwork. Just like everyone warned me last week, it’s addictive.
Computer game processes good fun
Friday Night DOOM
by Dizzy B. Murphy
Greetings game fans and wel­
come to “Friday Night DOOM,” 
your video game review column! 
In the coming weeks expect to 
find reviews on games from al­
most every platform. Arcade 
games, PC games, even Nintendo 
and possibly even (yuck) Sega.
To start things off, I’ll be re­
viewing a new role-playing game 
that came out this August called 
Phantasmagoria. I know what 
you might be thinking: “Another 
horror game where you have to 
kill people or solve puzzles to 
win.” This thought is both right 
and wrong.
The game is a classic horror 
story written by Roberta Will­
iams (don’t ask me who she is) 
and features a heroine instead of 
a male hero. You won’t find any
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Imaa 68S:40dd
monsters here, though. You won’t 
find any tough (7th Guest type) 
puzzles to solve, either. Instead 
you are treated to a small movie, 
where you have to make some 
choices and solve small problems 
with a bit of common sense. But 
what a treat it is!
Instead of cartoons or made up 
characters, every character is a 
real life actor and we are not 
talking about some B-type movie 
junkies either. All of them play 
their roles well and you get to 
meet interesting people as the 
plot goes along. Even though the 
game is seven CDs long (yep, you 
read right, seven CDs!) most of 
the memory space is filled with 
cinema scenes where all you’ll do 
is sit back and enjoy the action. 
As with most live-action CD 
games, the graphics are terrifi­
cally rendered, but the best point 
of the game is the music. It is an 
absolute masterpiece! From the 
very start, it will grab you and
keep you tensed up from minute 
to minute, changing every chap­
ter.
The play controls and challenge 
level leave much to be desired, 
though. You control your charac­
ter by a simple point and click 
interface with your mouse. You 
may pick up objects from time to 
time, but it is no challenge to 
know when to use them. In fact, 
the game is very easy to complete, 
especially with the use of the 
Hintkeeper, a small skull that 
tells you hints on how to solve 
your current puzzle.
All in all, if you are looking for 
a tough action game or a brutal 
burn-your-brain puzzle game, 
keep walking down the store aisle 
and look for something else. How­
ever, if you are like me, who likes 
a solid story and doesn’t like 
Einstein-level type puzzles, buy 
this game, go to your room, turn 
off the lights, crank up the speak­
ers, and get ready for one hell of
a ride! Next week, I’ll be review­
ing some of the arcade games-we 
have here on CMU, including 
Street Fighter Alpha and Primal 
Rage. Until then, have fun and 
blow those Kilrathi to hell! - 
Rating for Phantasmagoria: ***.
Key:* Don’t even think of buying this game. Download the demo. That’p enough!** Buy this game only if there isf nothing better on the store and yoty are desperate for something new.***A decent game. A good buy which will bring you some hours o£ fun on the weekend.very good game. Expect t{> spend weeks playing it and patting yourself on the back for being such $¦ smart buyer.gem. If you don’t buy thief game, either you know a site to leech' it off from or you spend all your time! studying (yeah, right). Expect to sep your grades drop severely this semess ter thanks to this baby!
jDizzy Murphy is a senior social 
and decision science major. *!
Comprehensive Medical Care is available in 
Squirrel Hill by
AREEY OUTRWI N?S?
Board Certified in Family Practice 
6301 Forbes Avenue 
422-3555
On staff at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Shadyside Hospital, and Childrens Hospital of Pittsburgh
!EwoU NUuwlRWdEikeI ???
Professional Excellence. Personalized Care.

---------------------------------------------------

MAF & PYCS gave birth to a 6 lb 10 
oz baby boy on Sept 21 at 3:49 pm at 
Mercy Hospital. 
“Is the education worth the pain? It's 
the only way out of this place; the 
back door.” Congrats, boys!
The egrets, the potlucks, the 
shellacing, the swingset, the choking, 
the restaurants, the general abuse, the 
maiming of too many cute furry ani­
mals ... I wish we could do it every 
month! I love you guys — PT
Please submit Vox Populi announcements. Deadline for entries is Sept. 
28. Announcements should be 20 words or less. Drop them off at The 
Tartan office in the Student Center or send to The Tartan, Box 17.
Vox Populi
Voice of ilie People
; Films
Hair will play in DH 2210 Thursday at 5, 7:30, 
10 pm, and 12:30 am.
The Basketball Diaries will be shown Friday 
in DH 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
--------------Religion
The Jewish University Center of Hillel
will be hosting the following events: on Mon­
day, two Rosh Hashana services; a conserva­
tive service in the ballroom at the Pitt Student 
Union, and a reform service, in Dining Room A
...............Theatre
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents Pippin,
playing from this Saturday to next Saturday, 
with showtimes at 8 pm, and a matinee next 
Saturday at 2 pm. Tickets are $7 for students 
and senior citizens, $15 for the general public.
Carnegie Science Center at 337-3321, the 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh at 622-3102 or 
the Carnegie Museum of Art, Natural History, 
and the Andy Warhol Museum at 622-3359.
Mayor Tom Murphy will lead approximately 
200 members of Citiparks Senior Center Walk­
ing Clubs in a walk around the City-County
Pocahontas will be playing in DH 2210 
Saturday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Aileen Wuornos: The Selling of a Serial- 
Killer will be shown in DH 2210 Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Early Years of Moving Pictures series 
continues at the Carnegie Museum of Art this 
Saturday, with the showing of two pieces — 
Eadweard Muybridge, Zoopraxographer , by 
Thom Anderson, and Lyrical Nitrate, by Peter 
Delpeut. The first will begin at 8 pm.
Crossing Limits — A Collaborative Effort
invites poets, friends, and families to a multi­
cultural poetry reading at the Jewish Commu­
nity Center in Squirrel Hill (5738 Forbes Ave.), 
on Sunday at 2 pm.
Hewlett Gallery is accepting proposals for its 
1996-97 season. Site-specific, collaborative or 
multidisciplinary projects in science, visual, 
and performing arts enjoy a special welcome. 
For applications or additional information, 
contact: Petra Fallaux, College of Fine Arts 
#111, x8-3877 phone, x8-2829 fax, or email 
Fallaux at pf0w@andrew.cmu.edu.
Monolithic Architecture, a nine-project 
architectural display, will open at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art this Sunday, and will run until 
February 11,1996.
WRCT presents Shellac with Dis, Uzeda,
and Hurl this Saturday evening in the Tent. 
Admission is free.
Borders Book Store (1775 N. Highland Rd, 
Pittsburgh PA 15241) presents the In Pitts­
burgh Newsweelily Friday Night Jazz Series. 
This week, at 7:30, Michele Benson will be 
performing.
The University of Pittsburgh Department 
of Music is holding auditions for all vocal parts 
for a chamber choir, the Collegiate Chorale. The 
choir will perform in Heinz Chapel October 29 
in a concert of Bach Cantatas, and there will be 
six Wednesday-evening rehearsals beginning 
September 20. Call John Goldsmith at 624-4508 
for more information.
The University of Pittsburgh Department 
of Music presents a celebration of Indian 
Classical Music, featuring vocalist Malini 
Rajurkar accompanied by Subhash Kamat, 
tabla, and Arawind Thatte, harmonium, this 
Thursday at 7:30 pm in the Frick Fine Arts 
Auditorium.
Violinist Pinchas Zuckerman will open the 
Y Music Society’s 70th season this Wednesday 
at 8 pm, at the Carnegie Music Hall. For more 
information, call the Y Music Society at the 
Jewish Community Center, 521-8010.
Vehicle Flips will hold a CD release party this 
Monday with Seattle’s Tullycraft and Skylab, at 
Luciano’s Coffeehouse and Bistro (Forbes Ave, 
across from Duquesne University). Admission is 
$5, and the show begins at 8 pm.
Archers of Loaf, the Karl Hendricks Trio, 
and Crowsdell will play at Luciano’s Coffee­
house and Bistro this Wednesday at 8 pm. 
Admission is $6.
Salem-Teikyo University presents an 
evening of cultural exchange at the Carnegie 
Music Hall featuring harpist Naoko Yoshino, 
maestra Rachael Worby, and the Wheeling 
Symphony this Monday. Doors open at 6 pm, 
and the concert begins at 8 pm. Admission is 
$20 per adult, and $5 for students and senior 
citizens. To order tickets, call 1 (800) 215-2053.
© iyyt> New Line productions inc.The Basketball Diaries, a film about four young herion addicts in Manhattan’s Lower East Side, will be shown in Doherty Hall this Friday. Here (from left to right) Patrick McGraw, 
James Madio, Marky Mark Wahlberg, and Leonardo Di Caprio (What's Eating Gilbert Grape?) walk through the pouring rain in their prep school uniforms.
Scotch ‘N’ Soda presents Snapshots, an building at 10 am this Tuesday, to kick off the
improvisational play, in the Drill Deck this first day of “Citiparks Seniors Walk Across
weekend. Showtimes are 2 pm an4 8 pm, America. For more info about the program, call
Saturday and Sunday, and admission is $2 for JoAnn Deforrest at 422-6577. 
students, and $3 for the general public.
of the Pitt Student Union. There will also be a 
Tuesday conservative service in the ballroom. 
Wednesday, from 6-7:30 pm at the JUC (4551 
Forbes Ave., across from the Carnegie Mu­
seum), all are welcome to eat Israeli food and 
leam about the land of Israel at "Journey to 
Israel: Our Land." On Friday, "Mazon: A 
response to hunger" presents a Shabbat dinner 
designed to feed the hungry. All who bring a 
can of food can eat for free. The dinner will take 
place at Rodef Shalom, on the corner of Fifth 
and Morewood. For more info call Max at 621- 
8875 or email him at maxg@andrew.cmu.edu
The Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults 
(RCIA) is being offered at the Catholic 
Newman Center (681-3181) for adults who are 
interested in Roman Catholicism.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Student 
Center room 224, Monday through Friday. 
Weekend Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am 
and 8 pm every Sunday in Posner Hall. For 
information, call the Newman Oratory Center 
at 681-3181.
Muslim Students Association holds daily 
midday prayers at 1:40 pm in the Student 
Center room 224. Study circle follows on Satur­
day. Finger or email msa for more information.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 
Bigelow Blvd., holds the five daily prayers and 
during Ramadan also has taraweeh and free 
iftar. Friday prayers are at 12:15 pm. Call 682- 
5555 for more information.
The Lutheran Campus Ministry performs 
the Holy Communion every Sunday at 10:30 am 
at the Lutheran University Center, and holds a 
“Prayer at the Close of the Day” at 8:30 in 
Heinz Chapel, on Bellefield Ave., between 
Forbes and Fifth Aves.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts invites 
regional artists to submit slide documentation 
of their artwork for consideration for the 1996 
Biennial. Selection of the artists will be made 
through slide presentation, studio visits and 
slide/video/audio presentation for kinetic and 
installation work. Deadline for submissions is 
November 20,1995. Please send a resume and 
a maximum of 16 slides or no more than 10 
minutes of video tape to: 1996 Biennial, Pitts­
burgh Center for the Arts, Pittsburgh PA 
15232.
If you are a sophomore, junior, or a senior
studying computer science, engineering, phys­
ics, environmental and life sciences, mathemat­
ics or physical science, and have a QPA above
3.0, you may be eligible to participate in a 
Science and Engineering Research Semester 
sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy. 
For more information, call: (202) 488-2426, 
write: Science and Engineering Research 
Semester, PO Box 23575, Washington DC 
20026-3575, email: SERS@orau.gov, or look at 
the website: http://www.orau.gov/seed/sers/ 
sersgi.htm. Deadline for application for Spring 
. 1996 is October 20.
The Carnegie Museum needs volunteers to
assist with activities and greeting visitors on 
October 6 and 7 at all of its departments, 
including the Andy Warhol museum, for the 
Carnegie’s two-day centennial celebration. To 
volunteer or receive more information, call the
The Carnegie Mellon Women’s Soccer 
Team will play a home game against Brandeis 
University this Friday at 8 pm.
The Men’s Soccer Team will play a home 
game against Brandeis University at 5:30 pm 
this Friday.
The Men’s & Women's Cross Country Team
will meet at Hiram College this Saturday.
The Women’s Volleyball Team will play a 
home game against Point Park College this 
Saturday at 10 am.
The Women’s Tennis Team will play a home 
match against Carlow College this Wednesday 
at 5 pm.
The Men’s Tennis Team will participate in 
the Rolex Tournament at Swarthmore College 
this Friday-Sunday.
The Football Team will voyage to the U.S. 
Merchant Marine Academy this Saturday at 
1:30 pm.
-Meeting!
The Tai Chi Club will have an introductory 
workshop and organizational meeting on Mon­
day, September 25, time and place to be an­
nounced. For more information contact 
malcolm@cs.cmu.edu or call 268-7002.
