VOL. 48—No. 10 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., NOV. 23, 1954
Tech Students Strain Relations 
With Pitt, Faculty By Raiding
By Paul Carmichael
On November 15 a student rally was held in the Tech gym to 
honor the football team. At this time Dr. Warner, Coach Baker,
members of the team, and other people spoke about the season.
The band played several selections and the cheerleaders led some 
cheers. The rally was very suc-4
cessful as upwards of 1500 stu­
dents turned out to honor the team 
and celebrate the first undefeated 
season in 46 years.
But the action of certain stu­
dents after the regular rally does 
not reflect the mature college atti­
tude expected. A drive was organ­
ized by some students for a raid on 
Pitt. Needless to say it was car­
ried out. The estimates of the 
number of students participating 
in the raid vary. Pitt authorities 
say over 400 while other observers 
estimate about 200.
The size of the raiding party is 
of little consequence. Both Dean 
David and George Miley, president 
of Student Council, did their best 
to break up the raiding party 
while still on campus. Many peo­
ple have felt that the parties in­
volved were not even in attend­
ance at the organized rally but 
were a fringe element from Skibo.
Classes Disrupted 
Damage of the visit was slight 
according to Pitt officials. Chalk 
scrawls marked the walls and 
cigaret urns were over turned.
But this is not what strains re­
lations between the two schools.
What the Pitt administration ob- 
[Continued on page3]
Student Council 
Elections Slated 
For December 14
At the fall Student Council 
elections, which will be held 
Tuesday, December 14, four rep­
resentatives will be elected from 
Engineering and Science, three 
from Margaret Morrison and one 
from Printing Management. The 
assistant secretary will also be 
elected from the junior secre­
tarial class.
Petitions are now available in 
Dean David’s office and must be 
returned by December first with 
forty signatures from the candi­
date’s college (except for the as­
sistant secretary, who is elected 
by all colleges).
This year the elections may 
have more meaning than previ­
ously, for there are many issues 
and problems facing the prospec­
tive Council members: the con­
troversial fraternity bar-closing 
motion, the proposed Student 
Union fee, freshman regulations, 
intramural and varsity sports, 
class officers, the question of 
whether to have a float parade 
in Spring Carnival, and others.
To give an indication of fra­
ternity opinion on the “bar-clos­
ing” motion, two fraternity mem­
bers were asked to state their 
views; these appear in this week’s 
paper (see Letters to the Editor). 
The next issue of the Tartan 
(December 7) will contain state­
ments by all candidates, plus ^an 
explanation of the amendments 
to the Student Council Constitu­
tion which have been passed since 
last spring’s all-school election. 
These must be approved by a 
majority vote of all students.
This year, to insure fair and 
honest voting, any five candi­
dates may appoint in writing one 
Person to represent them as 
“watcher and challenger” at each 
voting place. These persons will 
have all rights and privileges ac­corded by civil law.
Charter Members 
Of Junior Women’s 
Honorary Named
Charter members of the newly- 
formed junior women’s honorary 
met Thursday, November 11, in 
Morewood Gardens to discuss the 
purposes and organization of. the 
group.
The seventeen junior girls 
chosen by Mortar Board commit­
tee members Kay Frazier, Mar- 
gorie Penney, and Janice Yent are 
the following: Susan Armstrong, 
Janet Bishop, Lou Ann Bryant, 
Nancy Cole, Jacolyn Connolly, 
Diane Farrington, Sylvia Fasick, 
Nancy Fee, Caroljo Forsythe, Mar­
garet Heatley, Judy Hirshfield, 
Mary Langdon, Barbara Moore, 
Joan Newman, Nancy Powell, 
Marilyn Wilhelm, and Shirley Wil­
son.
The following officers were 
elected: President, Lou Ann Bry­
ant; Vice President, Diane Far­
rington; Secretary, Margaret Heat­
ley; Treasurer, Mary Langdon; 
Editor, Sylvia Fasick.
General Purpose
The general purpose will be to 
help freshmen women in adjust­
ment problems, both social and 
academic. To facilitate the jobs of 
organizing the group and plan­
ning projects, two committees 
were named to take care of tech­
nicalities: Constitution and Name 
—-Nancy Powell, Shirley Wilson, 
Janet Bishop; Tutoring Organiza­
tion—Nancy Fee, Susan Arm­
strong, Jacolyn Connolly, and Bar­
bara Moore. Joan Newman, Nancy 
Cole, ¿nd Judy Hirschfield will ar­
range for fine arts and engineer­
ing girls to have access to the tu­
toring program.
At present, hours are being 
scheduled with those girls who 
require help and the tutoring pro­
gram will be officially put into ef­
fect soon after Thanksgiving.
Professors Write 
Article Concerning 
The Ultimate Atom
Professors Sergio DeBenedetti 
and H. C. Corben of the physics 
department have written an ar­
ticle called “The Ultimate Atom” 
appearing in November’s Scien­
tific American in which they de­
scribe what they have discovered 
about the new atom, positronium.
The new atom has a structure 
similar to the hydrogen atom, 
which in pre-nuclear days was 
taken for granted as the most 
elementary of the elements, but 
it is almost two thousand times 
lighter, consisting merely of two 
electrons rotating about each 
other at infinite speeds. Its 
weight in the atomic scale is very 
close to zero.
One of the electrons carries an 
ordinary negative charge, but the 
other is a positron, an electron 
emitted by a radioactive nucleus 
carrying a positive charge. The 
positron exerts a positive force 
more or less like the proton of 
the hydrogen atom. Unfortunate­
ly, the new atom lives but a 
fraction of a microsecond.
The two professors discovered 
[Continued on page 8]
Thistle
A Thistle sales campaign 
will be held during the week 
of November 30. Subscriptions 
for the 1955 Thistle will be 
taken on Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday at four 
central locations around cam­
pus. The four places and times 
are listed below.
Morewood Gardens—8:00 
a.m. to 9:30 a.m.
MMCC—11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m.
AH—11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m.
Skibo—11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. $
The cost is $5.00 per copy 
and this will be the last time 
subscriptions for the 1955 
Thistle will be taken. Seniors 
can expect to get their copies 
mailed to them as has been 
the practice for the last two 
years.
Rossini Named 
Religious Head
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, Read 
of the chemistry department, has 
been named by Dr. J. C. Warner to 
serve as chairman of the Carnegie 
Tech Committee on Religious Or­
ganizations for the 1954-55 term. 
The announcement was made at 
the first meeting of the committee 
in the Faculty Club last Tuesday.
The Committee on Religious Or­
ganizations is in its first year on 
the CIT campus and was estab­
lished for the purpose of prornot- 
ing and strengthening the work of 
religious organizations through the 
interaction of the three faith 
groups, Jewish, Roman Catholic, 
and Protestant.
Plans and recommendations for 
such an organization were made 
last spring by a group of students 
who had been appointed to study 
the need for coordination of relig­
ious activities on campus. Their 
recommendations were accepted 
and the important steps in the 
formation of the committee were 
directed by Mr. Sam N. Gibson, 
who was named to the new posi­
tion of Coordinator of Religious 
Activities and who is serving as 
secretary to the CRO.
The committee will arrange pro­
grams and projects between the 
faiths, and it hopes to initiate new 
policies directed toward the de­
velopment of student interest in 
r e 1 i g i o u s organizations. The 
Thanksgiving observance held this 
morning in the Fine Arts theatre is 
an example of the type of work 
that the committee will carry on.
Membership of the committee 
consists of three members of the 
clergy, three faculty members, six 
students, three alumni, one mem­
ber of the administrative staff, and 
the Coordinator of Religious Ac­
tivities.
This year’s committee includes 
Rabbi Marris Feldman, Father J. 
Regis Berkmyre, and Rev. Hugh S. 
Clark; A. Fred Sochatoff, Dr. Ros­
sini, and Webster N. Jones, vice- 
president of Carnegie Tech; Har­
vey Breverman and ?Dorothy 
Scharf, president and secretary, of 
[Continued on page 3]
Slide Rule 1
The first Slide Rule Lecture 
will be held at 11:30 on Tues­
day, November 30 in EH 2315. 
This will cover the basic the­
ory of the slide rule and the 
elementary operations. There 
will be a second lecture, the 
time for which will be an­
nounced in the near future.
Shown above is a view of one of the new rooms in Donner Hall. 
The first rooms were opened for occupancy last Saturday as 33 stu­
dents moved into the rooms on the third floor, east wing.
Donner Hall is Opened 
For First Occupants
Ever since the Carnegie Inn was torn down over a year ago 
students have watched with interest the construction of the new 
men’s dorm, Donner Hall. Last Saturday, November 20, 33 students 
moved into the thrid floor of the east wing to become the first
residents of the dorm. These oc-^-----------------------------------------------------
cupants were formerly housed in
temporary quarters scattered 
about the campus, with most of 
them living in Cypress Hall 
which will be used as a graduate 
dorm for the rest of the year.
The next group is expected to 
be moved in before the Thanks­
giving vacation on the third floor, 
west wing. The contractor esti­
mates that all the rooms will be 
completed by the end of the 
Christmas vacation. The students 
living temporarily in Web Hall 
are scheduled to be moved next.
Strikes Hurt
The completion of Donner Hall 
was delayed by several strikes 
during the summer. The firm 
jnaking the blue-green tile used 
as facing was struck for 13 weeks 
and the tile could not be obtain­
ed. The carpenter’s union also had 
a jurisdictional dispute which 
held up work for several weeks.
,The new dorm has spacious 
rooms and fine facilities. There is 
room for 243 students on the four 
levels. These students will be 
housed in 112 double and 19 
single rooms. Bathrooms are pro­
vided on each floor and a large 
lounge is included on the first 
[Continued on page 8]
Physics Freshman 
Named As Science 
Talent Winner
Victor A. §chmidt, a freshman 
in physics, was recently one of 40 
Science Talent Search Winners 
in the nation.
The forty winners were chosen 
from among 300 aspiring scien­
tists on the basis of a three-hour 
aptitude examination and an 
original scientific project. The 
prize consisted of $100 and a 
week in Washington, D. C. where 
Schmidt met the important men 
of science in that ax’ea.
Victor, a June ’54 graduate of 
Mifford High School in Baltimore, 
Maryland, is the son of Mr. and 
Mrs. Gunther B. Schmidt, 3507 
Mayfair Road, Baltimore, Mary­
land. The embryo scientist first 
heard of the Westinghouse Tal­
ent Search through his father 
who is a welder at the Westing­
house Landsdown plant in Balti­
more.
His interest in science, how­
ever, goes much further. Casually 
dangling his more than six-foot 
frame over a chair, he said, “I’ve 
been a scientist as long as I can 
remember.”
His scientific career started at 
the age of thirteen when he be­
gan going to occasional star-gaz- 
ing parties given for high school 
students by his good friend, Dr. 
B. L. Souther, an industrial 
chemist in Baltimore. Soon he was 
helping Dr. Souther build a priv­
ate observatory. Interest in as- 
ti’onomy eventually spread to the 
[Continued on page 8]
Drama Dept. To 
Present 6.High Tor9 
Production Next
Both faculty and students will 
take part in the production staff 
for the drama department’s forth­
coming presentation of Maxwell 
Anderson’s “High Tor” to be given 
December 3 to 13 at 8:15 p.m. in 
the Little Theater.
“High Tor,” written by Max­
well Anderson and directed by 
Henry Boettcher, will be present­
ed by the drama department from 
December 3 to 13 at 8:15 p.m. in 
the Little Theater.
Introduced by Mr. Anderson 
during the theater season of 1936- 
1937, High Tor, a fantasy mingled 
skillfully with reality is about 
a young man who owns land on 
the histoi’ical Hudson River, and 
his refusal to sell it to a group of 
covetous speculators. He is aided 
by the ghosts of an old Dutch 
ship among whom is Lise, the girl 
who longs for her home in Am­
sterdam.
Lighting will be handled by 
William McDonald, settings by 
Ronald Friedman and costumes 
by Barry Buchter.
“The cast will include Claude 
Jenkins as the Indian, Robert 
Fields and Richard Weber as Van 
Van Dorn. Barbara Hall and 
Carolyn Sedey as Judith, and 
Lesley Millman and Gwendolyn 
Sheffey as Lise. Dewitt will be 
portrayed by James Coakely, Ai't. 
J. Biggs by Edward Goodell, 
Judge Skimmerhoi'n by Robert 
Livingston and Buddy by Vincent 
Romeo.
Lawrence Bloom plays the role 
of Dope, with Ray Bevilacqua as 
Elkus, Walter Stanwick as Cap­
tain Asher and Daniel Walker 
as A. B. Skimmerhorn. Taking 
the part of Patsy is John Conboy, 
with Marshall Pihl as Budge, 
Peter Wendt as Peter and Philip 
Jacobus, Dan Kinley and Harry 
Williams as the sailors.
Carnfegie Tech students may 
pick up free tickets Tuesday, No­
vember 23 from 4 to 5 p.m. at 
Room 100 in the Fine Arts Build­
ing, upon presentation of their 
ID cards. ^
The faculty staff will include 
acting and direction by* Henry 
Boettcher, Allen Fletcher, Charles 
Werner Moore, and Mary Morris; 
costumes by Elizabeth Schrader 
Kimbei'ley and Fay Moore; and 
playwriting by Arthur Wilmurt. 
Lighting is being done by William 
Nelson, radio by Lionel Poulton, 
and stage movement by Gertrude 
Bunzel.
Lloyd Weninger and Paul 
Trautvetter are in charge of scene 
design and technical dixection. 
Speech is being taken care of by 
Edith W. Skinner and Ruth Denn- 
gardt ?nd theater management by 
Richard Hoover.
[Continued on page 8]

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 23, 1954
Tech’s Band Director 
Says Marching is Art
The fact that, to most people, a marching band seems to be 
considered fun rather than art, is regrettable to Robert A. Cantrick, 
Kiltie Band leader.
“The trouble with this state of ?——-----------------------------------------------
affairs,” claims Mr. Cantrick, “is 
that the marching baijd has all 
the potential of an art and should 
be developed along the basic prin­
ciples of other arts. Music is an 
art, so is group movement. These 
two arts are combined in the 
d^nce the opera, the art film and 
the pageant, which are consider­
ed art forms in themselves. The 
same elements are the tools of the 
maching band. Combining music 
and movement in the marching 
band should become an art too.” 
Director Cantrick has been lead­
ing his Kiltie Band toward this 
end. If the theme is musical, he 
makes the movement carry out 
and accentuate the music; if the 
theme is movement, the music 
carries out and accentuates the 
formations.
An Art And Still Popular 
“Let no one be frightened,” Di­
rector Cantrick warns, “that our 
bright and happy half-time foot­
ball shows will become esoteric or 
or avante garde. Art can be popu­
lar and still remain art. The point 
is to take advantage of the artis­
tic factors which are inherent in 
the situation.
“But the half time show should 
be above the level of miscellane­
ous and unrelated stunts. There’s 
more pleasure in art. Everyone 
instinctively realizes that a mov­
ing design is superior to a string 
of random tricks.”
Abandoning the tricks of the 
vaudivillian, Cantrick chooses his 
music for its inherent value, not 
any old tune that might call to 
mind a Thanksgiving turkey be­
cause it happens to be Thanks­
giving Day.
It’s the. same with his maneuv­
ers, chosen for their artistic value 
rather than association value. Any 
cartoon outline left over from last 
year’s Christmas will not serve the 
Kiltie Band. The music is chosen 
for musical considerations; the 
choice of maneuver is guided by 
visual considerations; and the 
combination of audio-visual fac­
tors proceeds according to prin­
ciples of musical value and pictor- 
al design.
Half-Time Shows 
As a result, moments of real 
beauty are experienced at a Car­
negie Tech half-time football 
show. A change of phase in the 
music is coordinated with a change 
of direction in movement. An ex­
plosive change to faster tempo, for 
example, is accentuated by a sud­
den scatter out of formation. The 
music and the movement call at­
tention to each other, providing 
mutual reinforcement.
The theme is always a tune or 
a visual pattern, not a patriotic 
symbol, a current event or a pop­
ular fad. “These are not stuff of 
the marching band medium,” Can­
trick declares. A folk tune or a 
maneuver which has always 
seemed beautiful is the kind of
thing which serves the Kiltie Band 
as a theme. Whether the music is 
invented to match the maneuv­
ers or the maneuvers to match the 
music is of no consequence.
Cantrick’s Views
The marching band has staunch 
advocates as well as severe critics. 
Advocates point to its educational 
value of developing good living 
habits, discipline, posture, pride 
in personal appearance and ac- 
complishm ent, responsibility, 
teamwork and community serv­
ice. Critics say that the march­
ing band subordinates the art of 
music to physical education and 
cheap vaudeville. Both of these 
views miss the point, according to 
Director Cantrick. “Both assume 
that the educational values of the 
marching band are not artistic but 
something else — physical, psy­
chological, or social in nature.
“Performance of the marching 
band can be all these things, but 
first it has to make sense as a pure 
audio-visual design, as a pattern 
of music and movement abstractly 
considered. It has to rise first to 
the realm of real art.”
Colloquiums Are 
Named By Physics 
Department Staff
The physics department, will 
hold a colloquium on Monday, 
November 29, at 4:30 p.m. in EH 
A317. Dr. J. E. Goldman, of Tech, 
will speak on “Neutron Diffrac­
tion Study of Some Low Temper­
ature Magnetic Transitions.”
There will be an undergradu­
ate (S-427) physics colloquium 
on Tuesday, November 30, at 
10:30 a.m. in EH 3102. Mr. James 
Langer will speak on “Polariza­
tion and the Stokes Parometers.”
The nuclear and high energy 
physics seminar will be held at 
the Nuclear Research Center near 
Saxonburg on Thursday, Decem­
ber 2, at 3:30 p.m. The speaker 
will be Mr. Alper Garren of Tech 
who will speak on “Coulomb In­
terference Effects in Proton- Pro­
ton Scattering.” The Saxonburg 
station wagon will leave the cam­
pus at 12:30 p.m. Anyone plan­
ning to attend this seminar should 
sign the station wagon reservation 
slip by 11::00 a.m.
T ickets
Individual tickets for the 
Pittsburgh Symphony con­
certs, Friday evenings and 
Sunday afternoons, are on sale 
at student rates in the music 
office, FA 153.
Little Man On Campusby Bibler
*£es see—I got ‘INCOMPLETE’ in math 215, WITHDRAWN in 
English n, CONDITIONAL in social studies, and a D in Phys Ed-« 
Boy!—Thank goodness I didn’t flunk anything this term.
LORD WEST
The first name in quality formais
WHAT’S THIS DROODLE?
For solution see paragraph below.
LADY SCRUTINIZING SELF 
IN MIRROR AFTIR USiNO 
VANISHING CRIAM ,
Lili Whitfield University of North Carolina
SWISS CHIESI MAD I 
¦V I.B.M. MACHINS
Mort Fink 
Brooklyn College
IRK BEING FELLED 
BY MIDOET AND TAU FRIIND
Donald O. Kistner 
Texas Tech
GIRL WITH PONY TAIL 
RIDING PONY
William H. Harris 
Washington State College
lightweight
year-round
worsted
natural 
shoulders, 
narrow 
shawl lapel, 
jlap pockets, 
center vent, 
non-pleated
for n*m* ml 
nri/eal KUlhr 
and Ire« lorm«l 
drm «Hart, »nk —
LORD WEST
tailored by W#*t Mill 
101 West 21 St., New York 11, N V.
ACCORDING TO THE LARGEST and latest coast-to-coast 
college survey, college smokers prefer Luckies—and 
by a wide margin. The No. 1 reason: Luckies taste 
better. Thousands of students appreciate Luckies* 
better taste almost as much as the pair in the Droodle 
above, titled: Sweethearts attempting to kiss and 
enjoy better-tasting Luckies at same time. Luckies 
taste better for good reasons. First of all, Lucky 
Strike means fine tobacco. Then, “It’s Toasted” to 
taste better. This famous Lucky Strike process tones 
up Luckies’ light, good-tasting tobacco to make it 
taste even better—cleaner, fresher, smoother. So, 
enjoy the better-tasting cigarette . . . Lucky Strike.
""Retten. taste Luckies...
LUCKIES TASTE BEITER
CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!
BA. T. Co* raODOCT 09 AMBBICA’I LBADINO MANVFACIVIII Of CIGABBTTBB

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 23, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
(to Campuswith MstfihuJman
(Author o/ "Barefoot Boy With Cheek,- etc.)
THE OPERATOR
On every American eampus there are four standard fixtures*N°. 1 ~ lvy’> ^°- ‘2 — :statue of the founder; Nc. 3 —Philip MorrisCigarettes; No. 4 - The Operator. p morris
The ivy is to prevent strangers from mistaking the college for a warehouse. The statue of the founder provides shade for nicking when the weather is fine. The Philip Morris Cigarettes are an aid to concentration when you are studious, an aid to sociability when
y°U an*d a-sorce 0f smoke rin^s to impress new girls• VtA? , Tt e °Per,ator 13 the man you can’t do withoutWell do I remember The Operator on my campus. He was a young- man with a ready smile, a quick mind, fifteen complete changes of wardrobe, a six room apartment, a red convertible, and assorted stocks, bonds, securities, and second mortgages
The Operator’s origins were a source of lively speculation. Some said he was left over from the old Capone gang. Some said he was Judge Crater. Some said he sprang from the brow of Zeus.
. fact, he was just an ordinary student — to begin with. Inhis first year he studied hard, took copious lecture notes, got good grades, and made a big reputation as a friend in need. He’d lend you money; he d let you copy his lecture notes; he’d write themes for you; he d sit up all night to help you cram for an exam. All of this was done with infinite good nature on his part, and no obligation on yours . . . The first year, that is.
In the second year The Operator started to operate. He’d still let you copy his lecture notes but it cost you a quarter. Sitting up to help you cram cost 50 cents an hour till midnight, 75 cents an hour afterwards. His prices for writing themes were based on a sliding scale — a dollar for a “C”, two for a “B”, three for an “A”. A “D” cost you nothing, and if you flunked, you got a dollar credit on the next theme he wrote for you. ,
His services expanded steadily. He’ added a line of cribs for examinations. He booked bets on football games. He did a bit of bootlegging. He ran a date bureau. He rented cars, tuxedos, non-wilt­ing boutonnieres.
But all of these were really sidelines. His main line was lending money. At any hour of the day or night, for any amount from a dollar to a hundred, The Operator was always ready with a sympathetic ear and cash on the barrelhead. And he rarely charged more than 150 percent interest.
Usury and sharp trading are practices not calculated to win affection. Nobody loved The Operator. But nobody did anything about it either . . . Because undergraduates live in a perpetual state of need — need of money, need of lecture notes, need of romance, need of beer, need of something-and The Operator was the goose that laid the golden eggs and, therefore, safe.
Nor did The Operator seek affection. He just went his well- heeled way, serene and carefree ... No, not quite carefree. One thing troubled him: a fear that some day he might graduate. Gradu­ation, leaving school, would mean the end of his empire. You can’t run a business like that from the outside; you must be right in the midst of things, spotting opportunities, anticipating needs, keeping your finger on the public pulse.
So he took great pains to stay in school, but never to graduate. This he accomplished by constantly shifting majors. He would come within a semester of getting a B.A. in sociology and then transfer to law. When he had nearly enough law credits, he’d switch to business administration. Then from business administration to psychology, from psychology to French, from French to history, and so on, meanwhile getting cultured as all get-out, rich as Croesus, and never accumulating quite enough credits for a degree.Finally, of course, it caught up with him. There came a semester when no matter what he took, he had to wind up with some kind of a degree. He looked frantically through the class schedule trying to find some major he hadn’t tried yet. And he found one — physical education. So, sleek and pudgy though he was from high living, The Operator entered the department of physical ed.
It was a mistake. Among the people he had to wrestle and box with were some great hulking fellows who, like everybody else on campus, owed him money.Their tiny foreheads creased with glee as they regarded The Operator’s trembling little body; their massive biceps swelled joy­ously; their flexors rippled with delight. Rumbling happily, they fell upon him and covered him with lumps, the smallest of which would have taken first prize in any lump contest you might name.Confused and sick at heart, The Operator dragged his battered members home. He knew he had to get out of physical ed; his life was forfeit if he did not. So, unhappily, he transferred to some other course, and the fallowing June, a beaten man in his cap and gown, received with lifeless hands a diploma and a bachelor of arts degree and shambled out into the great world.I don’t know what happened to The Operator after graduation. It’s not a bad guess that he’s serving time in some pokey somewhere. Or maybe he was lucky and went into the advertising business. If so, he is surely a big man on Madison Avenue today.But, as I say, I don’t know what happened to him. But this I do know: another Operator appeared on campus as soon as this one left, and he in turn was replaced by another, and the process goes on endlessly.For as long as boy students like girl students better than going to class, as long as parents cling to the delusion that the allowance they had at college is sufficient for their children, as long as blood runs warm and cash runs short, there will be an Operator operating 
on every campus everywhere.©Max Shulman, 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS 
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
Some of the students who made the trip to Pitt after the pep 
rally in honor of the football team.
Discrimination In Labor Was 
Discussed By American Panel
By Herbert Buchwald
The advances made in recent years against discrimination in em­
ployment and in union situations were brought to light on Sunday 
evening, November 14, when the Panel of Americans held its monthly 
discussion of inter-group problems and related issues.
The topic for the discussion was^
“Discrimination in Labor.” Mr.
Stanley Fried, the evening’s guest, 
pointed out that there are now 
only nine small unions which still 
discriminate in their membership.
He also pointed out that Negroes 
hold jobs equivalent to those of 
white workers in almost all in­
dustrial plants.
Integrated
In the south, Negroes and 
whites have been integrated into 
the same union defying custom 
and city ordinances. FEPC laws 
have been passed by many major 
cities, including Pittsburgh. Mr.
Fried also mentioned that, 
through the realization that labor 
could fight for its demands only 
by unity, it has achieved a large 
measure of success in the fight 
against racial and religious dis­
crimination.
There is still much to be done, 
however. In many places the hir­
ing of Negroes has been “taken,” 
to show good will without any in­
tention of allowing Negroes equal 
working rights. Taking such ac­
tion are the Pittsburgh depart­
ment stores, many of whom have 
a few “show piece” Negro sales 
clerks, but which on the whole, 
limit Negro working opportunities 
to service jobs. The department 
stores often give excuses such as 
that there are no trained Negro 
personnel, or that they will lose 
customers. But these arguments 
have been repeatedly refuted by 
experiences both in Pittsburgh 
and other similar cities. Such a 
situation also exists in many of­
fices and other stores.
Migrant Labor
Mr. Fried alarmed the group 
by telling of migrant labor 
brought to Pennsylvania every 
year from the South. The condi­
tions under which these laborers 
live and work are unsanitary and 
almost unhuman. There are no 
provisions being made for schools, 
churches, living and sanitary con­
ditions, recreational facilities* or 
any other comforts. They are not 
allowed to leave the farms, and 
the situation is not, or cannot, be 
handled by present state regula­
tions. ^
When asked how to best fight 
prejudice, Mr. Fried replied that 
first we must appeal to the inter­
est of all individuals involved, for 
disunity is bad for business and 
organized labor alike. Also, he 
said, we must appeal to the lead­
ers of the «community to accept 
their civic responsibilities to take 
a public stand against all forms of 
discrimination.
Mr. Fried is of the Labor Com­
mittee on Human Rights. This 
committee has the support of the 
CIO and AF of L. Its program 
consists of educating union mem­
bers, urging legislation for civil 
rights, and creating a favorable 
community attitude.
Pep Rally—
[Continued from page 2] 
jects to is the disruption of 
classes.
Certainly the first undefeated 
season is worthy of a celebration 
but it should not carry over to 
other campuses where the event 
is of no concern. The purpose of 
a pep rally should be to honor a 
winning team and not disgrace it 
by straining relationships between 
the two universities.
The raiding party seemed to be 
oblivious of the fact that the 
Executive Board of the school had 
reversed a previous decision, a 
rare action to say the least, to do 
away with all rallies on school 
time, because student leaders ob­
jected strenuously to the action. 
It is true that not many students 
knew the exact circumstances 
surrounding the pep rally. This 
is another example of the bad 
communication between students 
and administration. A little 
thought on the matter of raiding 
would have gone a long way.
WRIT
Schedule
Tuesday, November 23, 1954
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Adventures in Research 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Masters Perform 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 11:55 p.m.—Sign OffMonday, November 29, 1954
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Interlude 7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:30 p.m.—French Masterworks 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Tuesday, November 30, 1954
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
•8:00 a.m.—World and Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 7:15 p.m.—Adventures in Research 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Masters Perform v 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Wednesday, December 1, 1954
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Interlude 7:30 p.m.—Montovani Time 
8:00 p.m.—Musical History 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night »Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Thursday, December 2, 1954
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Serenade in Blue 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Ye Olde Curiosity Shop 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:05 p.m.—Sign Off
Friday, December 3, 1954
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Star Time 7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:30 p.m.—Interlude 9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
AIEE-IRE-ASME 
Continue Lecture 
Series About Jobs
The joint student chapters of the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers and the Institute of Ra­
dio Engineers in conjunction with 
the American Society of Mechani­
cal Engineers held the second in a 
series of meetings on Monday, No­
vember 15. This series is designed 
to give the graduating engineer a 
better idea of what jobs industry 
offers and what is expected of the 
engineer in certain industries.
A talk was given by Mr. H. F. 
Porter, a Carnegie graduate in 
1948, who is head of the electrical 
and instrument maintenance for 
Goodyear Atomic Corporation. Mr. 
Porter spoke about typical engi­
neering problems in a process in­
dustry. A student address was 
given by Mr. David Palmer who 
worked for Goodyear last summer.
The third in a series of talks is 
scheduled for Tuesday, November 
30 in room 1121 Engineering Hall 
at 8:00 p.m. and will feature Mr. 
C. E. Wangeman, head of the Bu­
reau of Placements at Tech, and 
Dr. J. W. Graham, assistant dean 
of Engineering and Science. Mr. 
Wangeman will cover the services 
offered by Tech for placement, in­
terviewing procedures, expected 
salaries, and future prospects for 
employment. Dr. Graham will ex­
plain engineering registration and 
enumerate the advantages of regis­
tration.
All electrical and mechanical en­
gineering students are invited to 
attend. A smoker at the Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity house will 
follow the meeting.
Religious—
[Continued from page 1] 
the Hillel Foundation (Jewish), 
Paul Seiffert and Kathleen Egan, 
president and secretary of the 
Newman Club (Roman Catholic), 
and George Miley and Margaret 
Vetter of the Student Christian 
Federation (Protestant) which is a 
federation of the YMCA, YWCA, 
and the organized Protestant de­
nominational groups on campus. 
Alex Sharove, Henry J. McHenry, 
and John L. Elliott represent the 
alumni and Dr. Douglas F. Miner, 
Director of Student and Personnel 
Welfare represents the adminis­
tration.
At the meeting two committees 
were appointed to begin activities 
of the group. Dr. Sochatoff heads 
a committee on by-laws and is as­
sisted by Paul Seiffert and Mar­
garet Vetter. The committee on 
speakers includes Dr. Jones, Rabbi 
Feldman, Father Berkmyre, and 
Rev. Clark.
A student co-chairman will be 
selected to assist Dr. Rossini in di­
recting the functions of the com­
mittee.
Booti
(City Club shoes, that is)
lXie beautiful new City Club shoes art right on mry curvt 
styled authentically and built to last of very fine leathers.
Your City Club dealer hat a complete lint to choose from, and a »• *I59S
FREE, luscious GALendar for your courtesy In dropping in to tee 
him or write Peter* Shoe Co., Dept CN-U, 1505 Washington 
Avt. St. Louis 3. Mo.
by Peter»

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 23, 1954
Editorials—
Complaints
From our observations there are probably no more than 
a few students going to Tech today that do not have a bag 
full of gripes about some phase of the school’s operation. 
These gripes cover everything from instructors to extracur­
ricular activities. They get frequent airing at gatherings of 
students, but once these are over, they are stored for the 
next gathering where the student can spout off again.
It is probably true that many of these gripes are trival 
and many more are due to the misunderstanding of school 
policy, but it would seem that many of these comments 
are well founded and deserve consideration by the adminis­
tration. But the administration must know about these gripes 
before it can take any action.
The usual case is that the administration never hears 
half the gripes circulating around the campus. The student, 
through lack of wisdom or initiative, usually does not make 
any attempt to acquaint the people in charge about his 
problem. A person with a complaint has no right to be un­
happy with anyone but himself if he has not tried to get 
some one to take some positive action on his gripe.
The administration is not so far above the student body 
that they are not willing to listen to your problems. And 
after all, their job is running an educational institution and 
to do this effectively the students must not be too unhappy. 
It is possible that they are glad to have some things brought 
to their attention. This idea is reinforced by the administra­
tion’s quick action on the evaluation report of the Middle 
States Association. The appointment of a faculty and stu­
dent committee to study campus life and extracurricular 
activities shows that they realize something is lacking along 
these lines.
It is one thing to make a complaint or suggestion, but 
it must be done to the proper person. Probably the best way 
of finding out where to make a complaint -is stop in at one 
of the dean’s offices and you will be directed to the proper 
authorities. Once the proper authority has been designated 
then it up to you to air your gripe.
SC Elections
Once again the elections for Student Council are just 
around the corner. This year Council seems to be trying 
to drum up interest in these elections. Council has been try­
ing to gain back some of the prestige and interest in the 
organization which has been lost over the past several years. 
The probable reason for this lack of interest on the part 
of the student body is that Council has not done very much 
itself in the last several years. Also any action it did take 
was of little value.%One of the ways this can be done is by electing people 
to the Student Council who are definitely interested in the 
school and its problems and who are willing to work. Too 
often Student Council has had too many chair fillers that 
attend meetings regularly but do nothing more. Perhaps 
one of the best ways of electing good members is to require 
the candidates to take a stand on important matters that 
will affect the student body. In the next issue the Tartan 
will carry statements from all the candidates for office.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for ddvertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chirf .........................................................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor .............................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager .................... ................... ............................................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor ...............................................................................................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor ..................................................................................................................June Sochatoft
Sports Editor  .........................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Copy Editor—Bob Russell. Advertising Manager—Marty Ostroff. Assistant 
Business Manager—Vic Shiry. Circulation Manager—Don Gross. Office Manager
—Joyce Wright. Photography Editor—Barbara Toia. Features Editor—Joe Szwec. 
Reporter«—Marilyn Casey, Stephanie Mackay. Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Dottie 
Scarf, Joanne Babbitt, Marjo King, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, Carolou 
Fidder, Sally Day. Peggy Heatb. Dolores Chidester. Evelyn Alessio, Janet Bishop, 
Kay Melenyzer, Juli Wehousie. Sports Staff—James Lacey. Art Staff—Carolyn 
Copp, Harold MacDonald, Robert Connell. Make-l.'p Staff—Tom Wright, Jack 
Recker, Paul Doebler, Hayden Duensing. Advertising Staff—Robert Sorkin, Harly 
Bembach, Frank Zonis, Herbert Kriendler. Circulation Staff—Sheldon Crerr.er, 
Barry Reisman. Typists—Mary Langdon, Anne Barnes, Marjorie Forster. Copy 
Banner—Ronald Kohl.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3. 187#. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year. .
-J
Letters—
Bar Ban Hit
Editor, the Tartan:
Student Council’s recent action restricting the 
operation of fraternity bars on nights of some all­
school affairs is unquestionably within its consti­
tutional privilege, which is to regulate the social 
activities of fraternities whenever Council’s finan­
cial responsibility is involved. However, I think 
most fraternity men would question both the deri­
vation of this privilege (I hesitate to call it a 
right) and Council’s wisdom in using it.
Unfortunately, whether right or wrong, Coun­
cil’s constitution is pretty much of a dead issue. 
The important thing is the wisdom of its methods. 
The present regulation may increase attendance 
slightly, but any continuation of this type of poli­
cy might lead to a showdown with the fraternities. 
For Council cannot require attendance at any func­
tion; and for this reason it should adopt a new and 
more positive approach. Psychologists tell us that 
we drink only because we are bored. Why not try 
to make the events in question less boring than 
the fraternity parties. Is this too great a chal­
lenge? If so, why not admit it?
Signed:
Webster E. Howard, Jr.
Physics, ’55.
Council Upheld
Editor, Carnegie Tartan:
I agree wholeheartedly with the motion passed 
recently by Student Council forbidding fraterni­
ties to open their bars from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. on 
the evening of an all-school function, excluding 
Homecoming and Spring Carnival. The success of 
such functions depends, in great part, on the at­
tendance oi men on campus who are in the vicinity 
of the affairs. A good part of these men belong 
to fraternal organizations. Although I hold an of-r 
fice in a Tech fraternity, I feel that all-school 
functions are handicapped if fraternity bars are 
open.
Since the men in question pay social fees they 
are reluctant to attend an affair at school which 
requires the payment of an admission fee. I do not 
believe that it is a hardship for a fraternity to 
close its bar from 9 to 11 p.m. on the few evenings 
we have all school functions. Furthermore, I be­
lieve that the failure to attend such events indi­
cates a lack of school spirit.
I therefore disagree with the theory advanced 
by some members of the student body that the or­
ganizations sponsoring affairs should make such 
affairs excessively attractive in order to increase 
attendance. I might pose the question, “Should 
football games also be made more attractive?” I 
therefore, feel that the problem of increasing at­
tendance at all school functions which are part of 
Tech tradition may be solved by this motion passed 
recent^ by Student Council.
Signed:
Sy Kellman 
Physics, ’55.
Tartan Error
Editor, the Tartan:
Your news story on radioactive aluminum (No­
vember 16, 1954 issue) failed to give credit to 
Robert A. Rightmire and Alton L. Long, graduate 
students in the chemistry department. At Carnegie, 
as in other universities, most of the research ac­
complishments are made possible only by the par­
ticipation of graduate students, who thus learn 
research techniques and attitudes through actual 
experience. James R. Simanton, a research asso­
ciate in the department, also made important con­
tributions in this particular instance. Professor 
Alexander J. Allen of the University of Pittsburgh 
cooperated in the use of the Pitt cyclotron. 
Sincerely yours,
Truman P. Kohman
Associate Professor of Chemistry.
Morewood Food
Editor, the Tartan:
Have you heard about the tightening of belts 
around Morewood this year? You, too, would tight­
en your belt if you had to eat at Morewood.
Take, for instance, dinner last Thursday night: 
pork that was impossible to chew, undescribable 
potatoes (cold, of course), stewed apples which 
tasted like glue, wilted shredded cabbage, and stale 
bread. This is an all too typical dinner at More­
wood.
How would you like to eat roast beef and veal 
in six different forms for a couple of weeks straight? 
Someone once said, “Variety is the spice of life.” 
He had never eaten at Morewood where you have 
to drain the grease off the fried food before at­
tempting to eat.
How would you like to chew on a nail which
TL& Observer
Kenneth Burke once said, . . men build their 
cultures by huddling together, nervously loqua­
cious, at the edge of an abyss.” His “abyss” might 
possibly be interpreted to mean the great enigmas 
of life—the purposes of Nature, the rewards of 
achieving life and living it, death—but whatever 
its meaning, its presence seems to have prompted a 
need within, man for collecting groupwise to “talk 
life over.” With his societies, man evidently hopes 
to bring an ultimate order out of the chaos sym­
bolized by the abyss. The need for discussion 
(Burke’s loquaciousness) seems to have outstrip­
ped its (discussions) effectiveness, however, and to 
the American, idealizing a whirlwind resolution 
of his philosophical problems, talk seems to have > 
produced almost insignificant effects. Consequently 
a form of neuroses has developed.
A constant preoccupation with physical activity 
has supplanted reasoning processes-—which man 
suspects to be unequal to their philosophic tasks 
—ejecting the contemplation of vague, unreasoned 
fears, occasioned by the enigmas, from man’s con­
sciousness. This activity, since it had not been 
directed to problems philosophical, dealing with 
the sum total of societies and men, has been di- ^ 
rected inwardly in each particular society. Man’s 
activity has produced tightened restrictions in the 
production of original thoughts. Novel forms of ex­
pression have been discouraged. And ironically 
and tragically enough, the tensions of inhibited ex­
pressions seem to promote further compensating 
activity, and thus the process repeats itself, promis­
ing in the end nothing more than self destruction. 
Ritual, a more psychotic phase of neurotic move­
ment, a social narcotic, has already become a part ^ 
of American life.
* v
The musician, the painter, the “Fine Artist” in 
general, occupies an interesting social position with 
respect to his expressive potentialities. The musi­
cian, for example, if he is a sensitive, responsive 
member of his social group, reacts to conditions 
within the group. Since music has its origins in the 
mind, it reflects the spirit of the mind. Thus it 
also reflects the musician’s reactions to his society. 
The musician today, like his artistic compatriots, $ 
realizes that “predictability,” the essence of re­
striction, ritual, etc., has become the hallmark of 
our already well-patterned societies—American in 
particular. George Babbit, champion of the “great 
American Standard” recognized a multitude of Vir­
tues implicit in the concept of increasing predicta­
bility. A musician, however, if he senses the dangers, 
of Babbit’s ideologies, may attempt to reverse thé 
trend to predictability within his works, assured 
that society will not deter him in his efforts SINCE 
IT PARADOXICALLY SANCTIONS TRADITIONS 
AND THUS MUST SANCTION MUSIC!! He can 
rebel—as violently as he wishes—and present him­
self as a leader to others less expressively experi­
enced who might, also wish to reverse the trend 
to restriction and predictability. Thus, if he wish­
es, the musician may be of trèmendous benefit to 
his society.
In short, the musician reacts to predictability 
by becoming unpredictable. He invents “new forms,” |,j 
utilizes audio frequencies never before heard in 
concert, (clacking wood, rasping bows) etc. Schu­
man and Handel wrote music in which, if the ini­
tial notes are heard, a phrase may be predicted. 
This is not true of music created today. It is diffi­
cult to predict “when” a next note will be sounded.
If by chance the “when” is predicted, “what” the 
next note will be becomes uncertain. The listener 
may then conjecture as to “who” will create the 
note within an orchestra. There seems to be little 
traditional continuity. ;|j
If it requires courage to become unpredictable, 
then the modern musician is courageous. His reac­
tions to his society can be considered healthy and 
successful. Where he goes from here is another 
question, of course. But the engineer, the physicist, 
the pragmatist, might well observe the musician 
in his struggle to achieve a balance between tra­
dition and creation. The problem, although they, 
thç scientists, may not realize ft, is universal with 
men. ? ' 4
A campus is a culture in a nutshell. Observe 
it. What happens on our campus happens in
our nation. But here it happens faster.
had been left in your beef? Try it sometimes, I 
did. You can also find an assortment of bugs, hair, 
and dirt.-
Breakfast and lunch are all right, but can’t 
something be done about dinner? $
Signed,
Hungry.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 23, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
1954 FOOTBALL TEAMQuintet Begins Play Dec. 1
First Undefeated Carnegie Tech Football Team
Tech Ends First 
Undefeated Season
Kennedy, DeVries Lead Scorers;
Miller Leads Ground Gainers
With the final gun of the Lehigh game came the end of one of 
the most memorable football seasons in Tech’s history, as the 1954 
Tartan aggregation became the first team in Plaid history to go 
through a season undefeated, though tied by Lehigh.
Carnegie Tech has been repre-* “
sented by many fine teams, but 
none could match, this year’s rec­
ord of seven wins and one tie. The 
1928 team went into the final 
game undefeated, as did the 1950 
team and this year’s aggregation. 
The 1928 Scots lost a tough one to 
the NYU Purple, 28-14 for the 
only loss. In 1950 the Plaid jour­
neyed to Lehigh and after the day 
was over Lehigh tagged a 66-0 de­
feat on Tech, the highest score an 
opponent has ever posted against 
a Tech team. Even the Sugar Bowl 
team of 1938 dropped one during 
the season, but to Notre Dame’s 
“Fighting Irish”, 7-0.
Spring Practice
With spring practice and fall 
workouts suggesting that the Plaid 
team had arrived, the Tartans 
took the field against Westminster 
and reversed last year’s decision, 
with a 6-0 victory over the Titans, 
by virtue of Eddie Miller’s 45 
yard run in the second half. The 
score was not impressive enough 
for experts in the east to note, 
but the following week, JTech 
pulled one of the most stunning 
upsets by toppling the highly fav­
ored Lafayette Leopards, 23-21.
Frank Wengrzyn broke through 
and tackled Paul Bartlett in the 
end zone. Touchdowns by Bill 
Kennedy, Ken Ficery, and Art 
McGuigan matched touchdowns 
by Byron Satterlee and two by 
Paul Kozinchek.
Hopkins Loses
Already the team was looking 
toward the Lehigh game and an 
undefeated season. Weak John 
Hopkins Blue Jays were next on 
Tech’s list 3f victims. The “Seven 
Stubborn Scots” held the Blue 
Jays to a minus 17 yards rushing, 
as the Tech backfield had a field 
day. Marshall Brown, Jesse 
Quatse, Bill Kennedy, and Don 
Hrosik tallied for the Scots to 
give Tech a 25-0 victory.
Tech then marched over Geneva 
15-7, in a hard fought, muddy 
game. Tech lead 6-0 on Roy De­
Vries touchdown, but Geneva
came back 7-6, by virtue of a 
stolen ball that was converted in­
to a TD. Tech was not to be de­
nied as Jesse Quatse tallied and 
then Tech added an automatic 
safety to defeat the Covenanters.
Three Wins
Edinboro Teachers, the first of 
three winless foes that Tech was 
to play in three successive weeks, 
went under by the score of 26- 
6, as Quatse, Miller, Kennedy, and 
DeVries tallied six-pointers.
The Tartans then traveled to St. 
Vincents to defeat a stubborn 
Bearcat team 19-7, with Tucci, 
Miller, and Bercik supplying the 
scoring for Tech. The Prexies 
from Washington invaded Forbes 
Field only to suffer a whitewash­
ing, as Roy DeVries and Phil 
Jeske took charge, intercepting 
passes and each scoring a touch­
down. The third TD was scored 
by Kennedy.
With the count now up to seven 
wins and no losses, the stage was 
set for the struggle with Lehigh, 
who came to Tech a favorite, much 
the same as Lafayette, but with a 
bit more knowledge of the Tech 
football machine. The tough engi­
neers from Bethlehem were held 
to 46 yards in the air, their main 
attack, as the “Stubborn Scot” line 
broke through to rush passer Tom 
Gloede. The Tech defense was 
practically faultless, but the of­
fense had a tough time capitaliz­
ing on its breaks. And so ended 
the first undefeated season in 
Tech football history.
Individual Scoring
NameTDPATDTotal
Kennedy5030
DeVries31230
Miller4024
Quatse3018
Jeske106
Bercik106
Tucci106
Hrosik106
Brown106
Ficery106
McGuigan106
[Continued onpage 6J
With the end of a very suc-^ 
cessful football season, the atten­
tion of Tech sports fans is now 
turning to the coming basketball 
season. Last year’s basketball 
squad, which had a 12-13 record, 
returns intact and incmdes seven 
lettermen. Five of them have 
earned two letters each and 
should provide much of the ex­
perience the team lacked last 
year.
Height, the biggest handicap, is 
still lacking, particularly on the 
starting five. Speed will partially 
overcome this difficulty, and with 
the spirit and determination dis­
played in early season practice, 
Tech should have a successful 
season.
It is a team of good shooters 
who can hit from “outside” as 
well as “underneath”. An ag­
gressive group, they are expected 
to play an alert, sound, defensive 
game. Offensively, they can break 
fast and are excellent ball-hand- 
lers.
The scrimmages so far this year 
show Tech gradually rounding 
into shape. Their defensive game 
and ball-handling need sharpen­
ing up, but by the time the open- ; 
ing bell sounds, the Tartans will ' 
-be in fighting form; with Dick 
Fieler, Bill Dosey, Ralph Mocker, 
Jim Boyd, A1 Frank, and fresh­
man Charley Goetz holding the 
inside track in the battle for start- j 
ing roles.
Dosey, one of two seniors on 
the squad, is a three year veteran. 
Last season he scored a total of 
278 points for an average of 11.1 
per game. Fieler, McGinnis, 
Mocker, and Boyd are all j unions; 
Frank is the only sophomore 
among the first seven.
Jimmy Boyd was the high scor­
er of last year’s squad with 338 
points. He was closely followed 
by Dick Fieler with 316.
The schedule is probably too 
difficult for the squad to compile 
an impressive won-and-lost rec­
ord. Two games are scheduled 
with Duquesne (rated number 
one in the nation), Penn State 
(NCAA semi-finalist last year), 
West Virginia (probable Southern 
Conference Champs), Pitt (one of 
the East’s best), Geneva (NAIB 
tournament participants) and 
consistently good Westminster 
and Washington and Jefferson.
A two-day Christmas tourna­
ment at Fayetteville, West Vir-
Varsity Basketball Roster
No.NameHt.Wt.ClassHigh School
11"‘Fieler, Richard6'2"170Jr.Mt. Healthy, Ohio
12*Miller, Edward5'8"162Sr.Homestead, Pa.
13Heep, Dan6'3"185Soph.Wilkinsburg, Pa.
14?Frank, Alan6'3"195Soph.Schenley, Pgh.
15Lang, Ken6'3"190Soph.Langley, Pgh.
21Sobolewski, Frank6'5"188Fr.Steubenville, Ohio
22?McGinnis, Walter511"184Jr.New Wilmington, 
Pa.
23Visconti, Joseph5'7"145Soph.Latrobe, Pa.
24?Mocker, Ralph6T'165Jr.East Pittsburgh
25?Boyd, James6T'170Jr.Brownsville, Pa.
31?Dosey, William6'1"170Sr.West View, Pa.
32Goetz, Charles6'4"183Fr.No. Catholic, Pgh.
33Nathanson, Wayne5'11"158Jr.Allegheny, Pgh.
34 Karlic, Ronald 
?Denotes Lettermen
6'1"155Soph.St. Justin, Pgh.
foafôd
Freshman Charley Goetz tapping 
one in against Steubenville in a 
scrimmage game.
Tartan
There will be no issue of the 
TARTAN next week due to 
the Thanksgiving Day vaca­
tion. The next issue of the 
CARNEGIE TARTAN will ap­
pear on the newsstands De­
cember 7.
The main purpose of this is 
to give the weary, hardwork­
ing staff a rest.
your own
I College'1 &-Class
pipe
MEDICOJUttia (Hater
FILTER PIPE *3*2 & »522 KK
Medico’s filter strains smoke of nicotine, juices, tars, flakes. When filter turns brown, throw it away with all the impurities it has trapped. Replace with fresh filter for mild, mellow smoking.
Actual pipe hot your own college loiter on bowl
{?fARL«S\?OJDlCK
V by AL CÄPP______
ARE-VOU INSANE, 
F05DICK?-THI*5 ISA REAL, RESPECTABLE CELLO/T-
BUT, CHIEF"'— NO 
RESPECTABLE CELLO 
WOULD HAVE.,DRV, MESSV HA1R.V-
CORSES/r-1 SHOULD'VE
USED WILDROOT
... _____________^ r-1 but, I—
CREAM-OIL, CHARLIE.? THAT'S BE, ILLEGAL, c
-MV MAMEis WILL«.?
GET WILDROOT
//yx
ginia will pair Tech against 
Washington and Lee in the first 
round.
I=3- EMBARRASSED 6Y LOOSE DANDRUFF ? WILDROOT ÇREÂM-0ÎL REMOVES IT A KEEPS HAIR NEAT ALL PAV.*^
go Hama
hrlBMI
Beats the stuffing out of other 
transportation! Storms can’t can­
cel your trip. Traffic jams can’t 
make you miss vacation date:?, or 
get you back to the campus late. 
And it’s more fun traveling by 
train with your crowd, enjoying 
swell dining car meals en route.
Save 25% or More
And this is gravy I Travel home 
and back with two or more friends 
on Group Coach Tickets. On most 
trips of 100 miles or more, you 
each save 25% of usual round-trip 
rate. Still better, gather 25 or 
more to travel long-distance to­
gether on the same homeward 
train. Then return singly or to­
gether, and each save 28% of th# 
regular coach round-trip fare.
Get the Full Facts from 
Your Railroad Ticket Agent 
1 Well In Advance
Eastern
Railroads

---------------------------------------------------

paffe 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 23, 1954
A TO Wins Crown 
Beats KS9 29-25
Kovacs' Interception Runback, 
Catch by Muller Key Plays
The ATO six wound up the intramural football season last Wed­
nesday as the “Little Boys on the Corner” whipped the “Clyde Street 
AC ’ 29-25. A Bartocci pass to Muller scorel the winning points 
With about 15 seconds left in the game. The game was played in the
Tech Bowl and had all the ear-*---------------------------------—-------------—
marks of a top-flight contest as
the lights blinked on at halftime 
and at least 350 ardent supporters 
stayed until the final whistle.
The air route wras the brief story of the ATO’s success as Bartocci 
tossed five TD passes, two crucial 
passes into Muller’s arms, two to 
Daniels and one to Woolard. The 
KS’s also took to the air, but brief­
ly as Kaiser let one fly to Aspell 
and Pascarella passed to Hyams. 
Glen ran -around end to score in 
the first quarter, with Kaiser add­
ing another TD in the last quarter 
with another long run.
Last Quarter
The game, it was noted by all, 
was exceptionally clean, and 
turned out to be a slam bang affair. 
Going into the last quarter the 
the KS’s rallied as Kaiser put in
Football
[Continuedfrompage 5]
Wengrzyn 002*
Auto. Safety 002
*Safety
Tech 2212148
Opponents 9660
Team Statistics
Tech Opponents
First Down10476
Net Yards
Gained
Rushing1686819
Passes
Attempted81126
Passes ,
Completed2752
Passes
Intercepted914
Yards Gained
Passing308640
Total Yards
Gained19941459
Fumbles2325
Fumbles
Recovered1316
Field Hockeymi
Ends Season
WAA Field Hockey ended its 
season on November 2, winning 
one, losing three, and tying one. 
The teams played were Pitt, PCW, 
and Leetsdale. The scores of the 
games were as follows: Leetsdale 
4-0, Pitt Varsity 4-0, Pitt Frosh
0-5, PCW 3-3, PCW 3-0.
The following players partici­
pated: Mickey Coyne, Peggy
Coyne, Rosemary Eythe, Lenore 
dwell, Diane Farrington, Nancy 
Gardner, Peggy Heatley, Joan 
Hendrikson, Grace Kirsch, Sally 
Lynn, Ann Mehler, Barb Mortson, 
Elaine Paul, Joan VelefT.
On October 9 several members 
of the field hockey team partici­
pated in the Play Day held at 
Tech. Such schools as Fairmont, 
Slippery Rock, Pitt, PCW, and 
Geneva attended.
Vi A A Volleyball
Won Lost % 
Dorm Team 7 0 100.0
KKG 6 1 85.7
Tri Delt 5 2 71.4
Chi O 3 4 42.9
Citcom Clan 3 4 42.9
Faculty Bulldogs 2 5 28.6
KAT 1 6 14.3
DG 0 7 % 00.0
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
• TRY US FIRST •
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
ATO’s were leading 17 to 14, when 
his long run for the score. After 
the TD the KS’s then halted the 
ATO’s and started another drive 
down the field when Kovacs 
blocked a pass and caught it, re­
turning it to the KS two yard line, 
from where Bartocci stepped back 
and passed to Woolard. But the 
KS were far from « finished as 
Hyams got behind Muller, the ATO 
safety man, to snatch a long heave 
from Pascarella to put the “Clyde 
Street Boys” in the lead 25-22, 
with three minutes remaining in 
the game.
The ATO’s marched slowly up 
the field via Bartocci’s passes, un­
til with 15 seconds left a Bartocci 
pass fell into the arms of Muller 
in the end zone, for the final score.
Semifinal Scores
In the semifinals the DU’s put
ATO To Play 
Dukes Today
The championship ATO intra­
mural football team will meet the 
winner of the Duquesne intramural 
program on Tuesday at 4:30, in the 
Tech Bowl.
If the ATO’s receive the kickoff 
they will start their offensive team 
of Woolard and Muller, ends; 
Achilles, center; Bartocci, quarter­
back; and Gibbons and Daniels, 
halfbacks. The defensive team is 
Achilles and Major, ends; Kovacs, 
center; Daniels and Gibbons, half­
backs, and Muller at safety.
Campus Chest
The time is now! Campus 
Chest Pledges are due in the 
cashier’s office on Wednesday, 
December 1, 1954.
up a stirring baatle and looked to 
knock out the KS’s from the race. 
After leading 14-8 in the first half, 
the DU’s fell apart at the seams 
and could score no more than 
two points, as the KS’s let the 
Tigers out of the cage in the sec­
ond half and rebounded with 18 
points. They took to the air, to 
put an end to the shenanigans of 
Robbins and company.
Board Discusses 
Changing TF Rules
In the last few weeks the Intramural Board has been meeting 
and accomplishing much in the way of better organization of the 
intramural football program.
After the cloud of confusion resulting from the playoffs had 
cleared, the Board met and de-^-----------------------------------------------------
cided that, starting next year, all 
tie games will be considered as 
such and do not have to be played 
off.
Rules Change
Last week the Board discussed 
the possibility of changing the 
football-rules to includes the use 
of red flags hanging from the 
belts of the players for the pur­
pose of a tab- It was pointed out 
that this type of play would cut 
down the number of injuries and 
roughness of the game and it 
would eliminate much of the con­
fusion and doubt as to who tag­
ged the ball carrier and when.
After much discussion, it was 
decided to let the issue rest until 
a demonstration game could be 
played, and to let this decide the 
issue. During the manager’s club 
meeting the TX’s and the Static 
Charges volunteered teams to play 
sometime early this week It might 
be added that this style of play
has been very successful at other 
schools.
Water Polo Discussed
The problem of identification of 
team members in waterpolo was 
discussed, with two suggestions 
being made: that members of the 
same team wear wide colored 
bands around their wrists; or 
that members of the same team 
wear a colored bathing cap made 
especially for the sport. The mat­
ter is to be looked into further 
to see which is the more feasible 
of the two suggestions.
Thè due date for water polo 
rosters has been moved up to 
Nov. 24, Wednesday.
Last night in Thistle Hall, the 
Board had arranged to have a 
meeting of all those interested in 
refereeing intramural basketball 
games this year, for the purpose 
of organizing themselves and dis­
cussing the 1955 basketball rules 
and their interpretations.
Jim Walker asks:
Can a mechanical 
engineer make 
real progress in 
a chemical firm?
James B. Walker received his B.S. in mechanical engineering from 
North Carolina State College in June 1954, and he’s presently working 
for his M.S. at the same college. By asking pertinent questions, Jim is 
making sure that the position he finally accepts will be the right one for 
a fellow with his training.
"Pick” Pickering answers:
H. M. Pickering, Jr., received a B.S. in M.E. 
and E.E. from the Univ. of Minn, in 1940. He 
gained valuable technical experience at Han­
ford Works, in Richland, Washington, and in 
Du Pont’s Fabrics and Finishes Plant at Parlin, 
N. J. Today he is Works Engineer for Du Pont’a 
Seaford, Del., plant, where nylon comes from.
Well, Jim, that’s what the lawyers call a leading 
question, and the answer leads right into my baili­
wick. I came to Du Pont in 1940, after taking a com­
bined mechanical and electrical engineering course. 
So I had what you might call a double reason for 
wondering about my future with a chemical firm.
I soon learned that the success of a large-scale 
chemical process is vitally dependent upon mechan­
ical equipment. And the success of this mechanical 
equipment—especially for a new process—depends 
on (1) Research, (2) Development, (3) Plant Engi­
neering, and (4) close Supervision. The net result is 
that a mechanical engineer at Du Pont can progress
along any one of these four broad highways to a top- 
level position.
My own Du Pont experience includes mechanical 
engineering work in fields as varied as atomic energy, 
fabrics and finishes, and nylon manufacture. Every 
one of these brought with it a new set of challenging 
problems in construction, instrumentation, and 
power supply; and every one provided the so'rt of 
opportunities a man gets in a pioneering industry.
So, to answer your question, Jim, a mechanical 
engineer certainly has plenty of chances to get some­
where with a chemical company like Du Pont!
*tt u. s.«r.ort
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER IIVINO 
. .. THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH "CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
Want to know more about working with Du Pont? 
Send for a free copy of “Mechanical Engineers at DuPont.” 
This 24-page booklet describee in detail the four broad 
categories of jobs mentioned by “Pick” Pickering. Typical 
pioneering problems in each of these four categories are 
outlined. This booklet briefs a young mechanical engineer 
on how some of the newest and most challenging problems 
in his field were solved. Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours 
& Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington, Del.

---------------------------------------------------

Vic Vet jayj
THE 1954 HOUSING ACT MAKES 
IT EASIER FOR VETERANS TO
GET AN ADDITIONAL LiLOAN FOR MAJOR ALTERAT­
IONS, IMPROVEMENTS AND
O C DA I DC Tn TUClP /ClÏ
NOW! A filter cigarette real smokers can enjoy!WINSTON
r"FINER FILTE]
INER FLAVO:=21 - . " <
WmK![NG SIZE, TO¦
Winston tastes good—
like a cigarette should!
Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking 
-full, rich, tobacco flavor! No wonder college 
smokers are flocking to Winston—on campuses 
across the ccftmtry! Along with real flavor— 
the kind you’ve been missing in filter smokes 
—Winston brings you a finer filter. This exclu­
sive Winston filter is unique, different, truly 
superior! It works so effectively, yet doesn’t 
“thin” the taste or flatten the flavor. Winstons 
are king-size, too, for extra filtering action— 
and easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a 
pack of Winstons!
CUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton
Dancing Friday and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and Orchestra
-------------------
^CARNEGUki/ ,f\
ft JV/Í / Jrt
& Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor............................................................................................Dolores Neff
Managing Editor ..................................................................... Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager ...............................................................James Soltis
Reporters ..................................... Kathy Galligan. Edna Thorwart
Monte Carlo Carnival 
*Held in Thristle Hall
The Monte Carlo Carnival was held on Saturday evening, Nov. 
13, 1954 in Thistle Hall. The hall was gayly decorated with posters 
and balloons. Situated about were the gambling tables, the White 
Elephant table, and the Fortune-telling Booth. To the sound of 
rolling dice and spinning roulette*-----------------------------------------------------
wheels, the evening began. Our 
gp ‘ Las Vegas” Croupiers, sporting 
white shirts, mustaches, cigars, 
and green visors, included Vic 
Sabol, Bill Groll, Bill Bond, Matt 
Bertovich, Charles Keller, Floyd 
Byers and Ralph Czernak.
For those who weren’t so lucky 
all the time, our attractive ‘Can 
Can’ girls were on hand with ex­
tra money which could be pur­
chased at a nominal price. These 
girls included such familiar peo- 
pie as Jean Woods, Virginia Ross, 
Mary Alice Peterson, Edna Thor- 
, wart, Emily Muhic, Joan Mack, 
and Pat Renkowic.
Many people had the oppor­
tunity to have their palms read by 
our very famous palm reader, the 
one, the only, Nicholette; better 
known to Techites as Kathy Gal­
ligan.
During intermission, almost ev­
eryone was to be found some-
0 where in the vicinity of the Black 
Cat Lounge. Many were dancing 
while others were seen huddled in 
small groups, drinking pop and 
eating potato chips or pretzels, 
comparing their winnings or los­
ings, depending on their, circum­
stances at the midway point of 
the evening. ..
Elephant Auction
Our auctioneer, Floyd Byers, 
began the White Elephant Auction 
towards the end of the evening. 
As in past years, everyone was 
very pleased and happy with the 
White Elephants they bought.
There were prizes awarded to 
the boy and girl who had the most 
money left after their gambling 
hours.
As it drew near to midnight, 
the Carnival began to close. Our 
“gamblers” were seen leaving 
with happy smiles and agreeing 
with one another that this was 
one of their most enjoyable eve­
nings.
Watch This Paae 
For 
Important 
Announcement1
Tuesday, November 23, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
T ech Neivman Club 
Plans Communion 
Breakfast Dec. 5
The Evening School Newman 
Club held its regular meeting on 
Sunday evening, November 14, 
1954 at the Carnegie Union. Among 
those present were: Joan Mack, 
Mike Antonelli, A1 Bedard, Chuck 
Labee, Emily Muhic, Dave and 
Mary Lou Gartner, Anna Mae Le- 
gosh, Elvira Loreski, Joanne Neff, 
Bill Bond, Vic Sabol, Edna Thor­
wart, John Van Holt, Dolores Neff, 
Ross Klingensmith, and Bill and 
Dolores GrolL
A short business meeting was 
held during which the president, 
Bill Groll, made announcements 
concerning the coming Federation 
Newman Club events. On Satur­
day, December 4, 1954, a Marian 
Year Congress is to be held at Mt. 
Mercy College. This will consist 
of Mass, Communion, Brunch, and 
Discussions, concluding at approx­
imately 4:00 p.m. The admission 
fee for the day will be $1.50.
Mass and Breakfast
On Sunday, December 5, 1954, 
there will be a Federation Com­
munion Mass and Breakfast. The 
Mass will be at 10:00 a.m. at St. 
Paul’s Cathedral with breakfast 
following at Central Catholic. The 
fee will be $.75 per person. Any­
one wishing more information may 
call Bill Groll at HE. 1-6848 or 
write to Evening School Newman 
Club, Box 264, Carnegie Tech, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
There has been a tentative date 
set for the Federation Bowling 
Party on Friday, December 10, 
1954. There will be more infor­
mation about this at a later date, j
Following the business portion ‘ 
of the meeting, Father Angelo, 
C.P., continued his discussion of 
last meeting, on “God, the Giver 
of the Sacraments.” Many inter­
esting ideas were brought forth 
during the evening.
Upon the conclusion of the dis­
cussion, everyone adjourned to the 
back room, where they feasted 
upon pumpkin pie and apple cider.
ce
r*»at-C*W BottHaf Of, FttMuih II, P*.
Tech Wives 
Set Program
ATTENTION: All wives of Tech 
students, both day and evening.
Here is your Tech Wives’ Club 
program for the remainder of the 
school year. The meetings are held 
at Tech’s Carnegie Union on the 
first Monday of each month at 
eight in the evening.
Even if you have missed the 
previous meetings, please plan to 
attend the rest of them. We are 
sure you will enjoy a pleasant 
evening in a friendly atmosphere.
Put a circle around the follow­
ing dates on your calendar: 
December 6—Christmas Party 
(Bring $.50 grab bag gift). 
December 16—Children’s Christ­
mas Party (three to five in the 
afternoon). Details wiH be given 
at the next meeting.
January 3—Miss Doris Meyers 
(Carnegie Tech home economics 
department) will talk on new 
styles and fabrics.
February 7—Card Party.
February 19—Annual Valentine 
Party with husbands as guests. 
March 7—Carnegie Children’s Li­
brarian. “How to Tell a Chil­
dren’s Story” . . . Illustrated by 
a story. (The Pitt Dames will be 
our guests at this meeting.) 
April 4—Dr. J. LaE?arth (Mellon 
Institute) will talk on synthetic 
fabrics and their care.
May 2—Program by next year's 
officers.
So far we have had a very nice 
attendance at the meetings but we 
would like to see it doubled at the 
next one. Let’s have the evening 
school wives well represented, too.
For full information contact your nearest VETERANS ADMINISTRATION office
Plaid
There will be no issue of the 
PLAID next week due to the 
Thanksgiving vacation. The 
next issue of the evening 
school paper will appear on 
December 7.
So find yourselves a baby-sitter 
and come out and meet some of 
the other wives. Remember the 
date, December 6. See you then.

---------------------------------------------------

Have Thesis typed by 
experienced secretary. 
Reasonable rates. 
Call Mrs. Massey 
Allegheny 1-6713
America’s Best Filter Cigarette!
SIZE & REGULARt aillorr & Mm* Tobacco Ca
Tech’s radio station, WRCT, has 
begun a new series of programs in i 
the morning. The station is on the 
air from 7:30 to 9:30 a.m. on Mon­
day through Friday, and carries 
music, campus news, time, weath- j 
er, sports, and world news. Bring­
ing the program to the listeners 
are Marshall Pihl and Neil Bern­
stein.
Another addition for the Tech | 
radio listeners is the Saturday 
show called “Reverie.” ^t is on the 
air from 9:00 to midnight and is 
composed of music for easy listen- ; 
ing. At 11:00 news of the world 
and local interest is presented to 
keep Techites up-to-date. Tim 
Day will be on hand Saturdays to 
present Reverie to the listeners.
Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 23, 1954
Svmpliony Gets 
Theo Salzman As 
Featured Soloist
On Thanksgiving weekend the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
will present Theo Salzman, noted 
cello soloist, in Handel’s Concerto 
in G minor for cello and string 
orchestra.
The work, being performed 
here for the first time, will be a 
feature of the Symphony’s fifth 
pair of subscription concerts 
which William Steinberg will con­
duct this Friday evening and 
again on Sunday afternoon at 
Syria Mosque.
Salzman has been heard many 
times since joining the Pittsburgh 
Symphony as solo cellist in 1952. 
His artistic career began when he 
qualified for admission to the 
Vienna Conservatory at the age 
of seven. By the time he was 
fifteen he was playing recitals in 
Vienna and other European cities, 
and at eighteen he was made solo 
cellist of the Vienna Symphony 
Orchestra.
In 1947, because of his enthusi­
asm for playing chamber music, 
he joined a string quartet in Syd­
ney, Australia. As a member of 
the continent’s leading chamber 
music group, as a soloist, and as 
a teacher, he won for himself a 
prominent place in the musical 
life of Australia. An extensive 
tour of New Zealand was his fare­
well to that hemisphere before his 
departure for America to join the 
Pittsburgh Symphony.
On the same program with the 
Handel Concerto will be Schu­
mann’s Symphony No. 4 and the 
fiery “Don Quixote” Tone Poem 
by Richard Strauss. Featured in 
the latter will be both Mr. Salz­
man and Nathan Gordon, viola 
soloist who appeared at an earlier 
concert this season.
WRCT Starts 
Morning Shows
Dormer Hall—
[Continued from page I] 
floor. Rooms for laundry, valet 
service, snack bar, darkroom, and 
dispensing machines has been 
provided.
Buzzer System
A unique feature is the tele­
phone buzzer system which 
should stop the yelling up and 
down the halls for people wanted 
on the telephone. Each wing floor 
also has an incinerator which 
alleviates the problem of what 
people should do with their full 
wastebaskets..
The cost of the new dorm to 
the residents is $95 per man per 
semester for a double room and 
$120 per man for a single room. 
The cost of construction has been 
$807,000 and there is about $360 
worth of »furniture per resident. 
These costs along with other in­
cidental costs bring the total cost 
to over $900,000. This is to be 
amortized over a 40 year period 
out of the room rents.
Donner Hall is the first of the 
administration’s plans for the 
area. Studies are now underway 
for the construction of the athletic 
field in Skibo Bowl. The barracks, 
biggest eyesore, firetrap, rat-trap, 
etc. on campus, are slated for 
razing as soon as students can be 
moved into the new dorm. This 
means the barracks will probably 
be torn down during the first part 
of the second semester of this 
school year.
Cost Accountants 
Offer New Awards
The Pittsburgh chapter of the 
National' Association of Cost Ac­
counting is conducting a project 
to stimulate student interest in 
accounting.
The project, open to students 
of Carnegie’s Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration, consists 
of submitting a manuscript of 
from 3,000 to 5,000 words on any 
subject relative to accounting. 
Acceptable are course reports, 
graduate research projects, and 
independent studies.
The prizes to be awarded to the 
two SIA students submitting the 
best manuscripts, in the opinion 
of the judges, are first prize $50 
and a merit certificate, and second 
prize of a merit certificate. In 
addition, there is the possibility 
that the winning manuscripts may 
be published.
Second year graduate students 
and doctoral candidates interest­
ed in the project are urged to see 
Professor Dearborn for further 
details.
The purposes of the National 
Association of Cost Accounting, 
sponsor of the projéct, arè to 
make more students aware of the 
advantages of a career in ac­
counting, to improve the quality 
of student thinking and research, 
and to encourage excellence in 
writing.
“High Tor”—
[Continued from page 1]
In the student staff, Marshall 
Pihl will serve as stage manager, 
with Barbara Clark and Ronald 
Brown as his assistants: Stephen 
Arnold is stage carpenter and spe­
cial projects are being taken care 
of by John Bos and David Mintz. 
Heading the painting department 
is Gerald Sausaman with Irene 
Baird, Nancy Cole, Patricia Clary, 
Sylvia Dante, Francesca Di Mat- 
teo, Jill Hirshenhorn, . Marlou 
Jahn, JoanJKugell, Claire Teitel 
and Diana Wray.
Properties are being handled by 
Thomas Pincu, assisted by Jeanne 
Allen, Uirsula Aronowsky, Nancy 
Blumenthal, Sally Breskin, Judith 
Dunkle, Judith Launt, Dorothy 
Walsh and Charles Walsh. Doing 
the electrical work for the scenes 
are Arnold Brockman, John Con- 
boy, Linda Effrat, James Gold- 
swig, M. Sue Gordon and Rose­
marie Schneider, supervised by, 
Marshall Booth. Sound is being 
done by Byron Ringland and cos­
tumes by Mary Pollock.
Professor—-
[Continued from page 1] 
that positronium whirls itself to 
death, rotating its electrons about 
a million times in its diminutive 
lifespan, and completely trans­
forms itself into energy in the 
form of three x-rays.
No Biter Compares with 
for Qualify or Effectiveness.
Science-
[Continued from page I] 
other sciences and today Victor 
is firm in his determination to 
become a physicist; so much so, 
that he has- gone and got himself 
a Westinghouse War Memorial 
Scholarship at Carnegie Tech for . 
the next four years. ^
He submitted a planetarium 
pi’ojector for his scientific pro­
ject to v become a talent search 
winner. The projector, he says, is 
similar to the one at Spitz Planet­
arium in Baltimore, but on a 
smaller scale. He built three 
models before he was satisfied. 
The projector which helped -him 
win the prize can reproduce the 
night sky accurately as seen from 
any point of the earth north of 1 
the equator for any time of the 
year at any chosen dark moment.
It also has facilities for repro­
ducing the positions of the plan­
ets, provisions for eclipses, north­
ern lights, comets and almost all 
astronomical phenomena.
‘.It’s really very simple,” he 
explains; “basically the projector 
is . like any other projector, a 
small filament bulb inside a dome 
which has been punched with 1 
holes in the appropriate places to 
represent the stars in the 
heavens.” Bright and dim stars 
can be shown by the size of the 
hole. A motor revolves the dome 
so that it can go through an en­
tire year in three minutes.
Unique one-year course leads 
you to Master’s degree. Indi­
vidualized training for those 
College Graduates who 
desire top-paying positions, 
have average or better aca­
demic records, broad educa­
tional backgrounds. Training 
in nationally known retail or­
ganizations with pay (covers 
tuition, books, fees). Scholar­
ships. Coed. Graduates placed. 
Next class begins Sept. 6,1955.
Applications ac­
cepted now. Write 
for Bulletin C.
SCHOOL OF 
RETAILING
UNIVERSITY OF 
PITTSBURGH
Pitt»Wgh 13, Pa.
Plan Now for Executive Career
in RETAILING
Enjoy Much More Flavor, Much Less Nicotine *
Mrs. Laddie Sanford, Socialite: 
I smoke L&Ms ... so do most of my 
friend9.Wonderful filter...fine taste!
What is it that makes L&M the most 
talked-about, most eagerly accepted, 
the fastest growing cigarette of all time?
Just this. It’s the filter that counts—and 
none compares with L&M’s MiracleTip. You 
get much more flavor, much less nicotine—a
light and mild smoke. That’s effective filtra­
tion. No other cigarette has it!
Why wait to try L&Ms? Discover for your­
self what more and more filter tip smokers 
are finding out every day: L&Ms are just 
what the doctor ordered.
Actress Diana Lynn: This is the 
best filter of all—L&M’s Miracle Tip. 
The smoke is mild, yet full of flavor.
Mr.
Erwin Show": As we say on TV, 
u the Miracle Tip. L&M’s filter beats ’em «11.
