Student Co-op for Skibo
by Debbie Siegel
The day is coming when students won’t 
have to trudge off campus to buy their 
? odds and ends.
On February 1st or shortly thereafter, a , 
co-operative store sponsored by the univer­
sity and managed by students will be 
opened to the campus.
This new store (it doesn’t have a name 
yet) is located in the old A Phi O office on 
the main floor of Skibo. Tom Janicki, the 
manager and organizer of the new venture, 
Projects the store’s hours as 11:00 am. to 
10:00 pm. on Sunday through Friday and 
12:00 pm. to 8:00 pm. on Saturday.
“Our purpose is to serve the students. 
Faculty and staff, as well, are a sizeable 
part of the campus population, and they 
could maintain the store during the sum­
mer months when the students aren’t 
around, ” Janicki told the TARTAN.
Stock will include non-perishable food 
items, soaps, detergents, tobacco, cigars, 
cartons of cigarettes, paperback books, 
non-prescription drugs, magazines, daily 
and Sunday newspapers, cold beverages, 
and a limited line of greeting cards. The 
Sunday Washington Post and New York 
Times will be available through a system of 
signing a list in advance. Janicki is alsoInspection 
Finds 
Problems
by Tom Kendig
During the Pre-Christmas housing in­
spection of dormitory rooms, it was 
discovered that 85 rooms were in need of 
immediate painting or plastering
James Curl, Director of Housing, 
personally inspected all. the hill dorms and 
Diane Castelli, Housing Manager, inspected 
Morewood Gardens.
According to Ms. Castelli, the in­
spection’s basic purpose was to Find 
“problems we would need to rectify in the 
then upcoming Christmas break and this 
summer.”
Mr. Curl added that it was done “to be 
helpful to the students.”
He also said that housing was checking 
mainly for problems such as poor electrical 
outlets, faulty radiators, and rooms in need 
of painting and plastering. Housing was not 
v specifically looking for violations of the 
housing code. Such violations were, 
however, noted.
According to Frank Montag, head of 
Housing Maintenance, there were not 
enough men to get all needed work done 
immediately. Uncompleted work will be 
done this summer, when the rooms are 
unoccupied.
** Besides painting as many rooms as 
possible, Montag said that the housing 
office painted the lounges of McGill and 
Hammerschlag, and installed 100 radiator 
traps in Welch Hall, at a cost of over 
$5,000.
Curl “was very impressed ^ith the over­
all cleanliness of the dorms,” adding that 
this may have been due to the advance
* warning given to the students before the 
inspection.
This was the first dorm inspection under 
continued on page 7
planning a section for used records. A stu­
dent may bring in some records with sug­
gested prices. This would be run much like 
the A Phi O book exchange. The store 
would sell the records at a slight mark-up, 
then return the suggested price to the stu­
dent, and keep the difference as a profit 
margin.
The administration of the store will be 
carried on by an Advisory Board of Stu­
dents who get feedback from the campus. 
They are responsible for pricing products, 
hiring and firing the manager, and pattern­
ing the direction of the store. The Advisory 
Board reports to the Managing Board 
which consists of Harry Rowell, the univer­
sity representative for the store, Irene Dau­
gherty, manager of the bookstore, and Bob 
McCurdy, director of student activities. 
The Managing Board represents the univer­
sity by assuring that operating prices are
feasible and that the management is 
responsible.
Bob McCurdy cited what he sees as the 
university’s interest. “The first interest is 
the extended initial capital it has taken to 
open the store. The second interest is the 
same as that of the students. It is a good 
idea and we want to make sure that it 
works.” Both Janicki and McCurdy a-e 
impressed by the tremendous co-operation 
and enthusiasm they received from the Un­
iversity, and by Rowell’s interest in oper­
ating the store so as to help guarantee its 
survival.
“Work-study students will get first pref­
erence for working in the store because we 
only have to pay 20 percent of their salary 
and the government pays the rest.” Appli­
cations are also available at the Skibo infor­
mation desk for anyone else who may be
photo by Bruce Edelston
Tom Janicki's campus co-op 
in February.
is expected to oper\
tartan
January 15, 1974 Volume 74 Number 12
Union Approaches CMU Staff
by Rob Simbeck
An estimated 10% of C-MU’s staff 
workers have responded to a United Auto 
Worker’s letter calling for support of a 
Union election on campus.
“They’ve gotten a better than average 
response for their initial contact with the 
workers,” said Ella Fall, a Civil Engineering 
Department secretary who initiated con­
tact with the union. “Now they’re willing 
to spend the money to help us get 
organized.”
She wrote to the Union in November, 
explaining the problems and grievances of 
the University’s staff'workers, who include 
secretaries and other office personnel, as 
well as non-faculty technical and pro­
fessional employees.
“1 chose the United Auto Workers
Optional Fee Proposed
by Steven Correll
Students who are willing to forgo 
campus activities could choose to pay as 
little as 25 cents of the annual activities fee 
under a proposal introduced at last 
Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting.
But opponents of the proposal, which 
comes only a year after a campus refer­
endum approved an increase in the fee, fear 
it would destroy the activities program.
“I have a lot of respect for apathy, and I 
figure that since some people don’t want to 
participate in activities . . . why should 
they have to pay for them?” says Robert 
Corey, the commuter senator who 
amended the motion, which originally 
included only graduate students."to include 
all students.
Tlje S25 activities fee is currently 
collected by the university and given to 
Student Government to allocate among 
recognized student organizations. 
Typically, about a third of the money goes 
to the Activities Board (AB), a committee 
of students who manage concerts, films, 
lectures and coffeehouses. The rest ot the
photo by Ellen Eddy
AB Director, Ira Picker, warns that a reduction in 
the activities fee would mean a cut in the AB 
budget and an end to free concerts.
money goes to a variety of groups ranging 
from the TARTAN, WRCT, the Carnegie 
Technical, and Scotch and Soda to less 
publicized organizations like the Hockey 
Club, the Yoga Society, and the K.
The motion, as offered at Tuesday’s 
meeting, would require all students to pay 
the portion of the fee that funds the 
TARTAN. WRCT. and the operating costs
continued on page 9
because I heard they have a good pro­
fessional, technical and clerical depart­
ment, and that’s what we were interested 
in,” Fall told the TARTAN.
The Union mailed the letters to the 
employees on December 7.
The grievances expressed by Ms. Fall, 
and by the Union in their letter, revolve 
around low pay, inadequate pension plan, 
hiring policies and benefits.
“I guess it was the idea of so many 
people being kicked around and not doing 
anything about it that prompted me to 
contact the Union,” Ms. Fall explained. 
“There are no cost of living raises to 
counteract inflation, Social Security Pre­
miums are going up, and you have to pay 
to park here. The University has been 
having financial trouble ever since I started 
here. But what they’re doing is asking the 
staff to carry them by accepting low wages 
and poor benefits. Legislators can vote 
themselves a raise, so this is my way to 
voting myself one.”
Concerning the possible increased 
expenditures the University would lace it 
the Union was established, she said, “As tar 
as a Union doing the University in. I can’t 
see that happening.”
The Department of Labor’s Bureau of 
Labor Statistics published a report for the 
year ending March 1973 which stated the 
average annual salaries nationwide for foui 
classes of clerical workers in all fields. The 
lowest classification of secretaries earns an 
average of $7,347 a year.
By contrast, C MU posted a ! 
job opening for the Biophysical 
Lab. The primary duties listed w< 
and sending correspondence.
ecretarial 
Research 
re typing 
letters.
lab reports and related
>n page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15. 1974
editor’s note
Ringside View:
A T THE SOUND OF THE DOLL A R COME OUT FIGHTING
For an institution that boasts one of the nation’s top management 
schools, it is ironic that C-MU cannot handle its own problems.
In this corner--the staff, who face numerous inequities in salary and 
pensions.
And in this corner-the administration, which has taken giant strides 
past the inaction of previous administrations.
The problem-unions.
Perhaps the situation could be brought to a less emotional state if both 
sides would cease placing blame on the other. In this corner, the staff fails to 
see that C-MU has been planning over the past year for the solution of staff 
problems. In the other, the administration fails to correct its slowness to 
display visibly or verbally some commitment to such ùction.
The impasse is simply that complex; there are legitimate gripes and 
legitimate attempts to solve them, however slow.
The staff is looking to unions as a shelter against what seems to be an 
un moving situation and an unsympathetic administration. On December 7 
the United Auto Workers sent a letter of grievances to the administration. 
Cyert's December 18 response was vague and rhetorical: "we have begun to 
implement. . . plans discussed. . (the administration is) dedicated to 
continuing and strengthening these effortJ>” To the staff that sounds like 
stalling.Their grievances are valid. There is no uniform pension plan, though 
the administration for "strategic” purposes has failed to tell them one is 
scheduled for July. Even a definite date could have undercut the urgency 
towards unionizing. Salaries are incredibly low, and despite a recommended 
scale, they vary in accordance with the wealth of the various departments. 
Rather than promote staff members, the University hires outsiders for 
higher-paying jobs. A prime example is Dean Weber*s hiring of his 
secretary from off-çampus candidates when there were qualified personnel 
here.
Perhaps before the staff goes full force or pours all energies and faith 
into forming a union, they ought to consider that Cyert's administration is 
only a little over a year old and its priority goal up to now has been
financial stability. Without that there would be no question of whether to 
unionize; without that there would be no university. Perhaps what they 
could keep in mind is that during that same year efforts have been made 
to solve their problems equitably:
-a new pension plan is being prepared for July 1st 
-the maximum on the pay scale has been raised
-a uniform grievance procedure has been established in the staff handbook 
At the same time, the administration ought to do away with some of 
the bureaucracy it is so caught in. Utilizing the management expertise of 
our faculty in committee after committee after committee only delays a 
decision and, as far as the staff is concerned, postpones a commitment. 
The year delay in issuing the staff handbook is the classic specimen of 
bureaucratic shuffling.
Had the University maintained the same inaction that characterized 
the past administrations, the staff’s decision would be dear: it should 
unionize. Since the administration has taken some steps toward action, 
the obvious question is whether it acted fast enough. The next obvious 
question is whether the staff can wait; can they be expected to?
Christine Infante 
Editor in Chief
FOR YOUR VIEWS
THE NEWS COMMENT PA GE IS A FOR UM FOR YOUR VIEWS AS WELL 
AS OURS.
THE TARTAN MORE THAN WELCOMES YOUR OPINIONS ON ISSlfES 
RAISED IN EITHER THE EDITOR’S NOTE OR ON THE NEWS COMMENT 
PAGE
relea#«
ALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN WORKING ON THE 1974 COPY 
OF THE TARTAN GUIDE TO PITTSBURGH AND CMU, RELEASE 
SHOULD CONTACT THE TARTAN OR GARY SINGER, 682-4105 
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. . - . .
letters:
Editor:
As yoiw read this letter, a brilliant Har­
vard psychologist and philosopher sits in 
prison in California. Dr. Timothy Leary is 
in jail because he trusted the constitutional 
guarantee of freedom of speech, and spoke 
out for the viewpoint he believed in.
Today, ten years after he recommended 
decriminalization of marijuana, and after 
the concurrence of two Presidential Com­
missions, the American Medical, Psychiat­
ric and Bar Associations, and the Drug 
Commissions of India, Britain and Canada, 
Dr. Leary sits in prison for the “crime” of 
being found in the presence of two 
roaches.
Right now we are developing a national 
campaign to make people aware of the 
situation. This is being done by distributing 
Timothy’s latest writings, and through vari­
ous media projects which this publishing 
supports. Our latest initiative is a twenty-
five million dollar lawsuit against the gov­
ernment for conspiracy to enforce the mar­
ijuana laws capriciously, in order to 
suppress dissent in this country.
Timothy is well and, as always, bound­
lessly optimistic. He sends you his love*
Joanna Leary
Editor:
I am writing to express my displeasure 
with the structure of the curriculum in the 
Music Department.
Presently, 80% of my courses are 
musically oriented and only one is 
academic. I feel this is not conducive to a 
well-rounded education.
Diane Board 
Freshman, Music
tartan
Chris Infante, Editor-in-Chief 
Gary Singer, Managing Editor 
Lester Nathan, Business Manager
News Editor: Robert Simbeck 
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel 
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, 
Elliot Arons 
Entertaihment Editor: Susan Klein 
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Reporters: Sandy Como, John Craun, Thomas Kendig, Stephen Saunders, Tom Schwartz, Kevin 
Turcotte, Chip Yeager, Steve Correll
Entertainment: Mark Chimsky, Stacey Kimbell, Robert Simbeck
Sports: Roger Geddes, Glenn Campbell, Leslie Allen, Mary Kay Burak, Mary Jo Chabala,
Jim Litsas, Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman 
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Fredrick Shamlion, John Shettel, Courtney Larsen, Bryan Smith, Frank Stein, 
Rick Werme
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy Kinneavy 
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for annpuncements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m, for articles anfl display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 15, 1974—Page 3
news comment
What else is there to do 
besides study at GMU?
A few weeks ago Student Senate passed a motion creating a Day Care 
Scholarship fund which would provide married students with monetary 
support to send their children to day care centers while they attended 
school. This money would be taken out of the $12.50 Activities Fee paid 
by every student attending the University. Although most undergraduates 
are unmarried and even fewer have children, the motion was passed since 
it would be beneficial for graduate students who comprise over 25% of the 
student population.
At last week’s meeting of Student Senate, a group of graduate 
students raised a motion to give students the option of either paying the 
full $12.50 a semester activities fee or paying only the portion of the fee 
that is used to finance the TARTAN, WRCT, and Student Government. 
These students claim that certain groups within the C-MU community, 
including themselves, don’t participate in campus activities and thus 
should not be forced to pay for them.
At Carnegie-Mellon University an engineering student can spend four 
years studying and attending classes with only enough time in between to 
go out and get drunk weekends. That same engineer can come, go to 
classes, study, attend one of the four weekly movie series, join one of the 
many dubs, and take a day off from classes to attend Spring Carnival.
Should the argument that graduate students do not take advantage of 
campus activities be extended to the establishment of a policy whereby 
the university charges many individual fees rather than a single rate (i.e., 
tuition)? Students who preferred not to use the University Library would 
elect not to pay the library fee; students choosing never to take a 
computer science course or use the Computation Center would be exempt 
from the Computer Center fee; and those students who felt that they were 
big and strong enough to take care of themselves would not have to pay 
the Security Fee.
Carnegie-Mellon is more than a conglomeration of buildings, filled 
with students and faculty. It is a University Community that does and 
should pride itself as being a " Very Personal ExperienceThe elimination 
of a mandatory Activities Fee would eliminate such services as the Faculty 
Course Evaluation, TG/F, Concerts, and Day Care Center Scholarships.
Students who feel that the expenditure of $25 annually is too much 
to ask, even if it is providing services for other students and not 
themselves, are indeed not interested in the general welfare of this campus 
society.
Undergraduates are willing, as displayed by Student Senate, to 
pay for babysitters for graduate students. Is it too much to ask the same 
from the highly stipend grads?
+
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
by Gary Bronheim
Carnegie-Mellon University is a profession-oriented school, where many students 
are so into their work, that they don’t take the time, or have the time, to notice the 
other aspects of the educational world around them. The current educational 
environment here has three areas to it, but due to the nature of the C-MU educational
system most students are only active in the first of these areas.
The largest part of the student’s education comes from the classroom exper­
ience, and through books and assignments. Students so totally engross themselves in 
this area, (often at the expense of a good night’s sleep) that they don’t realize that
there might be more to education than just classes.
This naturally leads to phase two, where education is achieved through the 
people, by the people, for the people, and from the people. Your peers have so much 
to offer, especially through those willing to share their beliefs, emotions, knowledge, 
and feelings. But each of you have to make your own decisions as to what your fellow 
students, and faculty can give to further your education.
Education also comes through trying new experiences, like the countless organ­
izations that are offered and open to every student. Not only do these organizations 
have something to offer you, but they also provide a service to the students, and they 
make C-MU what it is. (They need fresh blood, though.) If you don’t like the job that 
they do, then it is especially your responsibility to try to make them better. WRCT 
will not be a better spot on your radio dial without your help and support, nor the 
TARTAN a better newspaper, nor AB, nor Student'Senate, etc. And if you are content 
with the way things are running now, as I am (for the most part), remember that your 
support might improve the work that these organizations do, or at least relieve the 
burdens of the present hard workers.
Then again, in many cases. I can’t just blame the students for not getting 
involved with the rest of the campus community. Sure, many of you don’t give a 
damn, but some students are restricted because of their overburdening workload. An
continued next column
educational system shguld give a student enough time to become active in each ot 
these three areas if he is so inclined. I believe that a student should not restrict himself 
to any one of these areas nor should he be forced to keep his full attention on only his 
academic studies. When a student leaves the educational environment, he will be 
forced to deal with more than Electrical Engineering, or Architecture, or Technical 
Writing. He will also have to deal with people, and it is therefore equally important 
that a college education prepare him for this.
This university also has a tremendous need for a revision of the class unit 
allocation system. “Give credit where credit is due.” A nine unit CIT course is 
probably twice the work of a twelve unit H&SS course, and even in the H&SS college 
there are some unfair credit allotments. That is to say that CIT, MIS, CFA, etc, are 
overworked, not that the H&SS program is too easy. At least H&SS students have time 
to explore each of the three areas of education that this university offers. It is your 
$16,000, so get the most of your education. (Disagreements with my feelings should 
be sent to the TARTAN, agreements should be sent to your deans NOW!)
Cranberry -Money Univ.
Quality Points Don’t Grow on Trees
by Eschericia Coli 
(Mr. Coli is a human parasite who dwells in the gut.)
Once upon a time, in the southwestern part of the great Forest of Pens, was an 
institution known as the Cranberry-Money Vocational School.
The school was in grave financial troubles because it wouldn’t let the Government 
of the Forest of Pens give it any money. If it did it would become a public school, and 
everybody knew that public schools were inferior.
Inferior, but richer.
Anyway, at just about the same time, the school chose a new president. His name 
was Dr. Richard Cipher, and he set out to vanquish the school’s grave financial 
troubles.
“This school will have to become leaner, tougher, but better,” said President 
Cipher. “We may not have as nice-looking a campus as we once did, and we may have 
to learn to live with a little more dirt than we are used to, but I am determined that 
the intellectual excellence of this institution will be unharmed.”
The problem, you see, was that some students had become accustomed to taking 
courses in a very unfortunate manner. For three years they would work diligently, 
taking more courses than they were expected to. This was referred to as “over­
loading.” Then, in the fourth year, they would take only one or two courses each 
semester, using their spare time to go skiing and to serve on some of the numerous 
academic committees that were engaged in trying to figure out how to convert the 
Cranberry-Money Vocational School into a Univeristy.
The unfortunate aspect of this practice was that the School gave a large discount 
in price to students who took only 6ne or two courses, so that the students who 
overloaded for three years and underloaded for one year got a bargain. They paid less 
money to the Cranberry-Money Vocational School than students who always took 
only the expected number of courses.
“I see a potential source of extra money going unexploited,’ said President 
Cipher to his faithful sidekick, the Earle of Dean. “Let us exploit them--er, I meant to 
say, it.”
So the Earle of Dean wrote a memo to every student stating that henceforth the 
school would resume enforcing a traditional rule that nobody but the Earle could 
remember ever having been enforced.
The rule said that students would be allowed to take only a limited number of 
ovdfload courses in any semester, and that number would be given by the equation: 
courses=n!/(n-m+l)*y/(b+c*d*e* ... *z)/12l! where n was the number of fathers a 
student had and m was a number not defined in the memorandum.
Unfortunately, the Earle’s ploy didn’t work. The students who were smart 
enough to work hard and overload were invariably smart enough to figure out the 
formula. And the faculty advisors who were supposed to enforce the formula 
inevitably found they couldn’t remember where they had left their slide rules.
And even some students who did not use overloading to save money were smart 
enough to figure out the formula. For, you see, there was a large number of students 
who realized that overloading could help them to become learned, which was no mean 
accomplishment at the Cranberry-Money Vocational School. These students 
recognized that since many departments at the school didn’t publish an accurate 
advance list of which teachers were running which courses, it was impossible to predict 
which courses would be taught by dolts and incompetents.
So these students would tustomarily sign up for twice as many courses as they 
intended to take. They would attend all the courses for the first week. At the end of 
that week, they would keep only the courses taught by graduate students.
“Your ploy is not working,” said President Cipher to the Earle of Dean. “Try 
something else.”
So the Earle wrote another memo. This one said that it had been discovered that 
the practice of graduating in only four years was detrimental to the excellence of the 
school, and that henceforth all students would have to attend for five years.
“The number of courses you will be permitted to take during the fifth year is 
given by the formula courses=0/2500, where 2500 is the number of dollars the extra 
year’s tuition will cost you,” said the memo.
That vanquished all the school’s financial troubles instantly, and everyone lived 
happily ever after, including all the students who transferred to small public schools in 
the far West where, for $1000 less tuition every semester, they could take all the 
courses they wanted to.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15, 1974
announcements
Junior and senior women college students
in 25 Pittsburgh and surrounding area col­
leges have been invited to participate in the 
Women's Press Club of Pittsburgh Annual 
student journalism competition Saturday, 
January 12. The competition, a memorial 
to Gertrude Gordon, pioneer Pittsburgh 
newspaper woman, offers two cash a- 
wards-a first prize of $200 and an hon­
orable mention of $100. In addition, there 
is the Grayce Druitt Latus Memorial" Award 
of $200. Awards are based on the best 
story written by contestants following an 
interview with an interesting personality. 
This year, students will interview Esther 
Lapiduss, well known Pittsburgh enter­
tainer. Contestants will meet at the 
Pittsburgh Press at 1:30 p.m. January 12.
Congregation Dor Hadash (Reconstruction­
ist located in the Hebrew Institute of Pitts­
burgh at the corners of Forbes and Dennis- 
ton in Squirrel Hill) will hold Shabat 
evening services Friday, January 11, I974 
in the Wolk Chapel of the Hebrew Institute 
at 8:30 p.m. The services will be led by 
David Klatzker of the Reconstructionist 
Rabbinical College in Philadelphia, and a 
discussion "Jews and Chinese-Some com­
parisons and a look at the future” will 
immediately follow.
Women's Health Services, Inc., a non-profit
abortion clinic at 625 Stanwix Street, 
downtown Pittsburgh, announces expan­
sion of its free pregnancy testing. Begin­
ning January 2, pregnancy tests will be 
offered from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m., Mon­
day through Friday. Results are confiden­
tial and available while the woman waits. 
No appointment is necessary. In addition, a 
counselor is available at no charge to dis­
cuss anything relating to the test results. 
The pregnancy test used at WH5'requires, 
that women bring in a first morning urine 
sample. Referrals are available for pre-natal 
care, fertility counseling, menstrual regula­
tion, pregnancy termination, or assistance 
with continuing a problem pregnancy. 
More information about this service is 
available from WHS by calling 562-1900. 
For further information, contact Helen 
Seager, Director of Education/Admin­
istrative Assistant, at 562-1937.
The Postal Rate Increase scheduled for
January 5 will be deferred to Saturday, 
March 2, I974 to comply with a directive 
_rfom the Cost of Living Council. Likewise, 
the rate schedules currently in effect for 
nternational mail will remain in effect un­
til March 2, 1974, except that the price for 
international reply coupons will increase to 
26 cents on January 5.
On recommendation of the Vice President
tor Academic Affairs, Allen F. Strehler has 
been appointed Director ef Summer Pro­
grams in addition to his primary responsi­
bility as Dean of Graduate Studies. And 
Charles V. Williams has been appointed as 
Assistant Director of Summer Programs in 
addition to his primary responsibility as 
Mean of Men. Both appointments are 
t fectiveasof December 1, 1973.
.John Brady, a junior in the Design depart­
ment, has been named the winner of the 
V RCT logo contest. He will receive the 
f omised 25 albums and the $25 savings 
bond, and his entry will become the new 
iogo when WRCT converts to FM early in 
rebruary.
The Student Senate Health Fund which
provides interest free loans up to $200 for 
childcare or abortion fees is now handled 
by the Peer Help Center. For more infor­
mation, come to Baker Hall 150-A or call 
687-7414.
Reminder to Current Tour Guides: The
New Year brings a new semester and a 
corresponding change in your own sched­
ule of classes. Please stop in the Admissions 
Office as soon as possible and let us know 
when you are available to conduct tours 
for prospective students.
The Admissions Office is seeking the active
participation of CMU students in its cur­
rent tour guide activities. Tour guides vol­
unteer to conduct campus tours for pro­
spective students and their parents. Such 
tours enable the visitors to gain some in­
sight into what our university offers from a 
person who is involved most directly in 
that college experience. We welcome your 
interest in this program and encourage you 
to stop in and speak with Cheryl in the 
Admissions Office, 1st floor, Warner Hall.
Richard W. Hemphill, M.D., well known
obstetrician in the Pittsburgh area, will 
speak at the next public meeting of the 
Pittsburgh Organization for Childbirth Ed­
ucation (POCE) to be held Tuesday, Janu­
ary 15th at 8 p.m. in Lecture Room 2 of 
Scaife Hall, DeSoto Street, Oakland. Also 
featured will be two ^ilms. "The Story of 
Eric” depicts a satisfying birth experience 
by a couple trained in educated-prepared 
childbirth. "The First Two Weeks of Life” 
opens with the birth and then follows the 
infant through her first two weeks. Infor­
mation about POCE classes and activities is 
available by writing P.O. Box 10480, Pitts­
burgh 15234, or by calling 221-3066.
Volunteers are needed to work one evening
per week at Youth Development Centers in 
Waynesburg and New Castle. Transporta­
tion will be provided. If interested, contact 
Irwin Callwood, 6824 Kelly Street, 
Pittsburgh, 15208.
Each year for six weeks of the summer, a
program is offered to students in the 
United States and Canada to travel and 
study in Spain. Last summer, 74 students 
from 25 states, Cuba, Canada*and Puerto 
Rico departed from Logan Airport in Bos­
ton and flew to Madrid. Plans are already 
in progress for the 10th Summer Program 
in Spain 1974. All persons interested 
should write to Dr. Doreste, Augustana 
College, Rock Island, Illinois 61201 as 
soon as possible. Space is very limited.
The B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University
Center will sponser a bagel and lox brunch 
on Sunday, January 20 at 11 a.m. in the 
Skibo Faculty Dining Room. Professor A. 
Fred Sochatoff will speak on "Neil Simon 
Moliere of the High Rise Era?"
A Faculty Student Sabbath by B'nai B'rith
Hillel-Jewish University Center will be held 
on Friday, January 18. Dr. Ernest Stern- 
glass will speak on "Energy, Oil, Environ­
ment, A Nuclear Future?" Services will 
start at 6:30 p.m. in the Rogal Room of 
the Y-l KC, 3I5 S. Bellef ield Avenue, 
(across from Heinz Chapel) and dinner will 
be served at 7:15 p.m. in the 2nd floor 
lobby. (Call for Reservation by January 16, 
$3.00 for dinner, 621-8875)
Registration Forms for University
Lecturing and Post-doctoral Research un­
der the Fulbright- Hays Act are available in 
207 Warner Hall. See Dean Milligan for 
particulars.
Undergraduates who will bejuniors, seniors
or beginning graduate students by next 
summer are invited to apply before Janu­
ary 15th for the 1974 Summer and year- 
round Pre-Professional traineeships at the 
Pennsylvania branch of The Devereaux 
Foundation in suburban Philadelphia, a 
group of residential and day care, multidis­
ciplinary treatment, special education and 
rehabilitation centers. Traineeships are a- 
vaitable at the Devereaux treatment cen­
ters, summer therapeutic camps, and at its 
Career House facility. A few summer treat­
ment camp traineeships may also be avail­
able at other branches located in North 
Anson, Maine; Santa Barbara, California; 
Scottsdale, Arizona; Victoria, Texas; Hot 
Springs, Arkansas; Rutland, Massachusetts; 
and Washington, Connecticut. Traineeships 
for appointment as: Summer Camp Coun­
selor, Professional Aide, Research Aide, 
Skills Development Tutor, Rehabilitation 
Counselor Aide, Resident Advisor/ Coun­
selor are available. Further information on 
the Summer and year-round Pre-Profession- 
al Traineeships and application blanks are 
available from Dr. Henry Platt, Director, 
The -Pevereaux Foundation, Devon, 
Pennsyl ania 19333.
Graduate assistantships, fellowships, and
scholarships in Communication and Tech­
nical Writing are offered to qualified stu­
dents by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
in Troy, New York. Each assistantship pro­
vides a tuition grant of 12 credit hours per 
semester and a stipend ranging between 
$2,400 and $3,000. Graduate assistants in 
the programs are assigned to teaching or to 
research projects. Inquiries about the assis­
tantships, scholarships, and programs 
should be made to the Chairman, Dr. Rob­
ert W. Elmer, Department of Language, 
Literature, and Communication, Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, 
12181.
Israeli Folk Dancing is held every Monday
at 7:30 p.m. . in the H i I lei Lounge, 3rd 
floor, Y-IKC, (across from Heinz Chapel). 
It is sponsered by B'nai B'rith Hillel- 
Jewish University Center.
The C-MU Winter Lunch & Lecture Series
begins on Monday, January 21, at 11:30 
a.m. in Rooms 105, 106, of Skibo. It is 
entitled Jewish Themes in World Literature 
and sponsored by the B'nai B'rith Hillel- 
Jewish University Center. Dean Erwin R. 
Steinberg will open the series by speaking' 
on '*Franz Kafka: Religious Doubt as
Creative Wellspring."
A Tennis Team organizational meeting will
be held on Thursday, January 17, 1974 at 
4:30 p.m. All freshmen and upperclassmen 
interested in varsity tennis are invited to 
attend. Manager needed.
Fulltime delivery man needed. Must have
drivers license. $85 per week to start. 
Phone 683-6266.
Parttime and fulltime sales. Office products
on commission basis. Average parttime 
$50-$75 per week, fulltime $I00+. Phone 
683-6266 for more information.
College campus representative needed to
sell brand name stereo components to stu­
dents at lowest prices. High commission, 
no investment required. Serious inquiries 
only! SAD Components, Inc., 20 Passaic 
Avenue, Fairfield, New Jersey, 07006, or 
call Jerry Diamond at (201) 227-6814. \\
Wedding Photography with a difference.
Misties, Fantasies, Candids and Formats in 
rich, glowing color. Flexible plans specially 
priced for student budgets. Call 523-5660 
after 7 p.m. weekdays and any time 
weekends.
Job opportunities in Europe this *
summer . . . Work this summer in the for­
ests of Germany, on construction in Aus­
tria, on farms in Germany, Sweden and 
Denmark, in hotels in Switzerland. Well 
there are these jobs available as well as jobs 
in England, France, Italy and Holland to 
American university students coming to 
Europe the next summer. Please write for 
further information and application forms #»
to: American-European Student-Service,
Box 34733, FL9490 Vaduz, Liechtenstein 
(Europe).
The Country Dance Society of Pittsburgh
offers instruction in traditional English 
dances. The group meets in Room 524 of 
the University of Pittsburgh Student Un­
ion, Fifth Avenue1 at Bigelow Boulevard, 
Sunday evenings from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 
p.m. Meetings are scheduled for January 20 
and 27. Newcomers are welcome. .
The annual Christmas Season Dinner of the
Slavic Club at the University of Pittsburgh 
will be held on Saturday, January 19, 
1974, beginning at 6:30 p.m. The Club's 
President, Mrs. Judith A. Szala, announced c 
that there will be entertainment and inter­
ested parties may purchase tickets for the 
event by calling 624-5906. The cost for the 
same is $3.75 and the deadline for pur­
chasing tickets is January 17, 1974.
Peer Help Center is now collecting names
of interested people for their spring train­
ing session. If you are interested or have a . > 
question please come by Baker Hall 150 A 
or call 687-7414 on or before January 28, 
1974.
The CMU Karate club will start beginners
classes on Thursday, January 17 at 6:30 
pm. in the Skibo Ballroom. If you are at all 
interested, please come. Wear loose cloth­
ing, If you can't make it then, you can 
come 1:30 pm. Saturday January 19 to the 
Hunt Library Multi-Purpose Room, or 6:30 
pm. Tuesday, January 22 to the Skibo 
Ballroom.
Classified Ads
For Sale: SRO-12 speaker in cabinet.
Life-time guarantee, new. 60 watts rms. 
$75.00 Call Stfeve at 682-8526.
Calculator-Electronic, hand-held, battery
operated, $55. Information write ATLAS,
Box 2154, Clarksburg, West Virginia 
26301.
Squirrel Hill-3 rooms and bath. Kitchen
access-disposal. Large living room, large 
bedroom, private entrance. Shopping and 
transportation. Bartlett near Murray. All 
utilities included. $175. phone 421-9078 
or 422-7400. Mr. Stanley Perlman.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15, 1974-Page 5
Sixteen Polygamous Computers
by John Craun
Dr. William Wulf has a long, thin flat- 
top, talks in the special computer “nurd” 
lingo mixed with mild expletives, and is a 
professor in the Department of Computer 
Sciences here. Last December he told me a 
bit about two of the research projects he is 
currently working on.
One of the projects, (one of the top in 
the department), is designing a multi­
processor computer called C.MMP; for Car- 
negie-Mellon multi-mini processor) for 
which two of the practical applications are 
speech recognition and air-line reservation 
systems. A processor is the part of a com­
puter that does the actual computing: ad­
dition, subtraction, etc. To get a multi­
processor you just take sixteen PDP-lls 
(PDP-11 being the name of a certain type 
of smallish processor), hook them up to a 
common memory, and you’ve got 16 inde­
pendent processors with a common memo­
ry and input/output units. Of course it’s no 
simple task; at the moment the prototype 
has only three processors, but the final 
result has great possibilities. The C.MMP’s 
possibilities are such a big deal that Comp 
Sci gets visitors from all over the world 
who want to see it.
The way the C.MMP is set up the 16 
mini-processors can all work together, inde­
pendently, or in any combination. For ex­
ample, eight processors could be working 
on a big job while four others tackled a 
medium job and the last four each worked 
on a small job. This independence is posi­
tive as far as money is concerned, as it is 
cheaper to buy sixteen mini-processors 
(like PDP-lls) and hook them together 
into a C.MMP than it is to buy one maxi 
(like an IBM 360) with the same capacity.
And when people buy computers nowa­
days they buy one big enough to handle 
the biggest job they expect to have to run. 
The maxi computer doesn’t run maxi jobs 
all the time so the extra size is wasted; with 
a C.MMP you don’t get that waste.
Speech recognition (which is another 
project being worked on by the Comp Sci 
Dept.) involves programming a computer 
to understand a person actually talking 
English to it (through a microphone or 
telephone) instead of through mysterious 
(to laymen) program languages. At the mo­
ment, the speech recognition system fo­
cuses on understanding sentences in the 
areas of chess, news retrieval, medical diag­
nosis, and desk calculator, with vocabular­
ies of from 30 to 75 words. For the com­
puter to understand speech it must go 
through a number of lengthy processes. 
First it must recognize phonemes by com­
paring the voice spectrograph ot the talking 
operator with spectrographs stored in its 
memory. Next it sorts through its memory 
to recognize words from the phonemes. 
Finally it checks its memory once again to 
get sentences from the words. All of this 
memory searching takes lots of time, but it 
can be greatly speeded up by using a 
multi-processor so that each of the mini­
processors can work independently on 
specific limited tasks.
A C.MMP system could also be applied 
to air-line reservation systems, as well, in 
storing all the necessary information (like 
plane capacitys, plane locations, expected 
arrival and departure times, etc.) in the 
common memory and then having sixteen 
little processors each dig into the memory 
to answer their own specific questions in­
dependently. For example, processor one 
checks if Miss Bannister can get a seat on
Travel Grant Available
Applications for the Vira 1. Heinz Travel 
Award are now available in the Financial 
Aid Office, 210 Warner Hall. This grant, 
established in 1967, will enable a woman 
student to study and travel abroad between 
her junior and senior years. The purpose of 
the $1,500 award “is to have an articulate 
and perceptive young lady gain first-hand 
knowledge of international understanding 
and share her experience with other mem­
bers of the college community upon her 
return.”
Junior women interested in being con­
sidered for this award must submit an ap­
WANTED:
Programming Consultants for 
15-100
Any student who is interested in 
becoming a programming con­
sultant for students taking 15- 
100 should appply in the Com­
puter Science Department of­
fice, 4212 Science Hall. These 
programming consultants will 
be employed to answer 
programming questions from 
students taking 15-100, the in­
troductory programming course.
5u
VSALE
25 %offJAN. 3 -16Bruges, Paper. vJoizrcoiorS, 
acrylicf. .sketchbooks
Saturday’s flight to Denver while processor 
two confirms Mr. Crun’s reservation for 
the Poughkeepsie-Kalamazoo flight while 
processor three, etc. etc.
The second project Dr. Wulf talked 
about is called Program Verification, Struc­
turing and Correctness Proofs, which con­
fronts a very basic crisis that computer 
science is going through: the fact that ac­
curately translating English to simple com-
“Human beings are not very good at
being precise at things . . . and a com­
puter is a big, precise thing. ”
puter operations is extremely difficult. The 
fact is that almost every program written 
has errors in it. They are not usually disas­
trous ones, but enough so “once in a while 
the computer will kick you in the teeth.” 
Anyone who has had 15-100 knows how 
hard it can be to write a 50 or 100 step 
program correctly, let alone the 1,000 or
10,000 step programs needed for compu­
terized accounting systems and the like. 
When the occasional “kick in the teeth” 
comes in these large programs people get 
phone bills for a million dollars and things 
like that.
One method this second project is ex­
ploring to cut down on program errors is 
called program structuring. It is best ex­
plained by an analogy with the automobile. 
A car is a very complicated device. Yet it, 
can be successfully broken down into smal­
ler and smaller units: car into engine, chas­
sis and body; engine into carburator, dis­
tributor and cylinders, etc. ihe way the 
computer programs are written now you 
can’t do that. The programs are written in 
an undisciplined and haphazard fashion. 
“Human beings are not very good at being 
precise at things, particularly large things. 
And a computer is a big, precise thing,” 
states Dr. Wulf. The program structuring 
area of the project aims at devising a log­
ical, precise way to write programs and to 
train people to write them like that, The 
question is, how precise can you train 
people to be.
Another phase of the project is verificat­
ion of a program. Currently, a completed 
program is tested for correctness by giving 
it some sample problems and seeing if the 
right answers are produced. It’s trial and 
error exploration. The problem is that 
there are infinitely many problems that can 
be performed and they can’t all be tested. 
It’s much like testing a scientific theory. 
You can never strictly prove that the the­
ory is correct, you can just gather evidence 
that it is. (And even a theory with over­
whelming amounts of supporting evidence 
can be displaced, as is evidenced by Ein­
stein’s relativity dethroning Newton’s 
mechanics.)
Researchers at CMU are trying to write 
programs that will prove a given program 
to be correct. The problems in writing such 
a verification program are enormous, es­
pecially in the area of “loops,” but in­
formal sources suggest that the results 
could cause a real revolution in the 
computer science field.
Abortion and pregnancy counseling are 
available from your fellow students at the 
Peer Help center. 150-A Baker Hall, 
687-7414.
plication to the Financial Aid Office by 
February 15, 1974. A winner and three 
alternates will be selected and announced 
before the end of February. The selection 
committee will meet with all applicants at 
3:30 on Tuesday, February 19, in Warner 
Hall, Room 207.
The application includes sections on 
itinerary, budget, course of study, and rea­
sons for desiring to participate in the pro­
gram. Financial need will not be a criteri­
on. However, if it becomes a factor, the 
applicant should discuss the situation with 
the Director of Financial Aid.
GIRLS.............ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUN­
SELOR POSITION? Applicants are now being considered for the 
1974 camp season. Must be able to teach one of the following: Arts & 
Crafts, Arts & Crafts Director, Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Ac­
companist and singing. Archery, Tennis, Tennis Director, Golf, Tram­
poline, Photography, Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.) Scouting and Nature 
Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing 
Instructor or General Athletics. Secretary and Bookkeeper also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college graduate ex­
perienced in camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, evening 
programs, etc. Supervise large staff. Write Camp Director, 2409 
Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore Md. 21 209.
ENGINEERING AIDES
LOCAL
(STUDENTS)
SEVERAL POSITIONS-
FULL AND PART-TIME 
$ 7,500 + FREE TUITION
excellent chance for engineering student 
—any discipliné— 
work with 2—3 professional engineers 
all benefits—
WM. DEE PERSONNEL 
2327 Murray Avenue 521-4650 Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 15, 1974
Senate Considers Optional Activities Fee
continued from page 1
of Student Government. Students who 
refused to pay the rest of the fee would 
philosophically with the amendment and 
opposed it as a matter of “political 
efficacy ... I thought we had a better 
chance of getting the thing through when it 
was dealing just with graduate students.”
Both Koltun and Corey argue that living 
away from campus discourages students 
from participating in activities on campus. 
But Activities Board Director Ira Picker 
disagrees: “If they want to do anything at 
all, they have to go somewhere,” he says. 
“They might just as well come to campus 
and save three dollars as go to the Syria 
Mosque and see a Pat DiCesare product­
ion.”
Koltun explains that he feels that the 
specific terms of the motion are negotiable. 
He says that he and several other graduate 
senators planned the motion Tuesday 
morning and decided on the petition of 
funds for WRCT, the TARTAN, and 
Student Government because “everybody 
benefited” from those three organizations.
But he says “Were we to go down the 
list of budget-supported activities, we 
would probably find many worth 
support... we just didn’t want to begin 
with political hassles over who benefits and 
who doesn’t.”
Koltun adds that he personally would
RUGS
FOR
LESS
with your ID Card 
9 x 12s $15, $19, $29, $39 
also 6x9s,12x12s, 12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs furry rugs 
and bedspreads. Low prices oriental rugs in 
many sizes.
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut 
Shadyside
10 a.m. - 8 p.m. Sat, 'til 5 
For directions call 621-1025
be willing for Senate to supply the AB with 
a cash reserve to assure its continued 
operation.
AB Director Picker, whose organization 
is likely to be hard hit by any reduction in 
the activities fee, opposes the motion.
“We would like to think the AB affects 
everybody on campus,” said Picker, citing 
the Filip Arts series and an upcoming 
sequence of six daytime forums involving 
university officials as programs that in­
terest graduates and commuters.
Picker said that a cut in the AB budget 
would hurt TGIF, coffeehouses and video 
programming. The series of free concerts 
that featured Springsteen and the Strawbs 
last semester would end, the cooperative 
program that allows Pitt and C-MU 
students discount prices at each others’ 
campuses would end, and concert prices 
would increase for everybody.
Picker admitted that graduates showed 
not be entitled to discount prioes for 
Activities Board events.
Senate Finance Committee is scheduled 
to study the matter before it comes to a 
vote, however, and the committee’s 
recommendations may differ from the 
original motion. If the motion is passed, it 
must then meet the approval of the C-MU 
Board of Trustees.
Phil Koltun, a Computer Science 
graduate student elected to Senate last 
November, introduced the original motion
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213) 477-8474 or 477-5493
Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
Transcendental Meditation
As Taught 
by
MAHARISHI
MASHESH
YOGI
Spontaiwously develops Full mental Potential 
Provides deep rest for increased energy
INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
WEDNESDAY( JANUARY 16 
7:00 P.M.
Scaife Hall - Auditorium
SPONSORED-BY
STUDENTS
INTERNATIONAL
MEDITATION
SOCIETY
NON-PROFIT
EDUCATIONAL
ORGANIZATION
362-8823
after consulting with several other newly 
elected graduate senators.
“Our feeling was that we were re­
presenting our constituents in this 
thing . .. Graduates have a completely 
different lifestyle than undergraduates: 
they tend to have families, to live off 
campus . .. their extracurricular life is 
mainly oriented around the department.”
Koltun opposed the amendment to 
extend the motion to all students, but was 
defeated. He said, however, that he agrees 
less interest than undergraduates did in 
concerts, the most high-budgeted and risky 
AB productions. But he said graduate 
students are welcome to join in any AB 
projects. “They’d certainly add a more en­
lightened air than freshmen who come on 
looking to see things like the Who in 
concert.”
The idea of exempting graduate 
students from paying the activities fee 
apparently arose last semester when former 
student senator David Weintraub was 
trying to win changes in university policy 
concerning graduate finances. The MIS 
College Council defeated a resolution by 
MIS Associate Dean James Langer that 
asked that graduate students be exempted 
entirely; members apparently felt the 
proposal would damage the activities 
program. The CIT College Council passed a 
similar resolution. CIT Assistant Dean 
Helen O’Bannon said that the council felt
graduate students didn’t make much 
money to begin with and didn’t receive any 
clear benefit from the fee anyway.
Koltun says he was not involved with 
the College Council actions but was aware 
of them when the graduate senators made 
plans to introduce the Senate motion.
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank, 
administration representative to Senate, 
warned senators at Tuesday’s meeting that 
they were “risking a beautiful piece of 
confused direction . . . ”He cited last year’s 
referendum approving a $5 per year 
increase in the fee, and also warned “This 
body in the fall... recommended to the 
administration that it should be very care­
ful about selective feeing when check 
cashing was involved. If you as a body 
believed that. . . you should consider very 
carefully introducing selective feeing in 
another area.”
Asked if he has any qualms about the 
possibility that his motion would effect­
ively wipe out most student organizations, 
Koltun replied that clubs should be made 
to justify their own existence by attracting 
student support. “I’m not one of those 
people who wrings his hands over student 
apathy,” he said. “I don’t get upset that 
students don’t vote in student government 
elections; they would vote if they were 
interested. And as for lack of interest in 
campus issues, issues would arise if there 
really were important issues.”
THE BACK DOOR
UNIVERSITY COFFEEHOUSE
FRIDAYS 9-1 A.M.
this week: Human Sexuality Seminar 8:30 P.M.
Folksinger & Denise 
coming up: Feb. 1 - "Resurrection”
Feb. 8 - Folksinger Lee Mulhare
NO ADMISSION CHARGE 
FOOD
ENTERTAINMENT 
OPEN STAGE
RODEF SHALOM BASEMENT 
CORNER 5th AND MOREWOOD 
ENTRANCE - - REAR PARKING LOT
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
CMU WINTER LUNCH & LECTURE SERIES 
JEWISH THEMES IN WORLD LITERATURE 
JANUARY 21. DEAN ERWIN R. STEINBERG
“FRANZ KAFKA: Religious
JANUARY 28.
FEBRUARY 4.
TIME:
LOCATION:
Doubt as Creative Well 
Spring"
PROFESSOR MICHAEL FOUGERES
"SCHLEMIHL: From Jewish 
Folksy Figure to Western
European Romantic Hero" 
PROFESSOR ANITA BROSTOFF 
"DAVID THE KING" by 
Gladys Schmitt
Mondays at 11:30 a.m.
SKIBO- Rooms 105. 106 
(Cost: $ 1.00 for lunch)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15, 1974—Page 7
What Future—CMU?
jPhoto by Frank Stein
Dr. Richard Van Horn, Associate Dean of GSIA, predicts that enrollment in private schools will 
peak in 1978 and then face a drastic drop.
by Sharon Curcio
C-MU’s future through 1980, parti­
cularly its projected size and directional 
goals, is the subject of a study by a 
University committee called SCALE.
Consideration will also be given to such 
topics as financial growth, physical growth, 
possible channeling of each student’s 
tuition into his/her major department, and 
an early retirement subsidy for faculty 
members.
The Committee, formed under the 
guidelines of C-MU President Richard 
Cyert in September, will study C-MU’s 
optimal role in the nations educational 
system, taking particular care to forsee and 
understand various national trends. It will 
make its recommendations to Dr. Cyert 
and to Faculty Senate.
SCALE is chaired by Dr. Richard Van 
Horn. Faculty members include Arnold 
Bank, Angel Jordan, Alfred Blumstein, 
Robert Lepper, Daniel Resnik, Lester Lave, 
and John Fox.
Undergraduate and graduate student 
members include Randy Chapman, Alec . 
Wisch, Charles Fletcher, Marty Hollinder, 
Dennis Brandi and John Sisson.
Dr. Van Horn divided SCALE into a 
three-fold structure:
A. Intelligence duties of SCALE-- 
SCALE must attempt to predict future 
student enrollment, as well as incoming 
unrestricted gifts and endowments.
B. Development of a multi-year plan- 
SCALE must construct a five year plan to 
chart and make budgetary recommen­
dations according to their analysis of 
anticipated growth. Dr. Van Horn said that 
although the University is budgeted one 
year in advance, the University has the 
legal right :o discontinue a tenure contract 
if a financial crisis would occur.
C. Allocation schemes-The deans,
provosts, and President Cyert decide what 
to do with the “free money” from en­
dowments and student tuition.
In studying optimum size for student 
and faculty populations, SCALE will try to 
set guidelines for student-faculty ratio, 
undergraduate-graduate student ratio, and 
the proper “mix” for a specialty school.
An important consideration is the effect 
national trends will have on the potential 
supply of college students. Van Horn said 
that by 1978, enrollment in private schools 
will peak in Pennsylvania and across the 
nation. After this date, college enrollment 
will dramatically decrease. Dr. Van Horn 
explained that this has begun to disrupt 
and even close many of the smaller private 
liberal arts colleges; however, C-MU and 
other specialized schools who enjoy 
national reputation face less serious dis- 
ruptions,and will stay in operation.
Dr. Van Horn and the members of 
SCALE expect C-MU’s enrollment to 
increase by 75 to 100 students each year 
and level in -1978. The SCALE chairman 
also mentioned that the number of fulltime 
students in both 1972-73 and 1973-74 has 
remained virtually the same except for this 
year’s unusually large freshman class with 
eighty additional students.
C-MU’s financial situation will also 
require careful scrutiny, since a high ratio 
of endowment funds to faculty-student 
population, and total University income
are essential to maintaining C-MU as a 
first-rate private school.
The slow growth rate of the University’s 
unrestricted gifts, only 5% per year, has 
limited C-MU’s expansion, and although 
the last major fund-raising campaign 
resulted in the building of Science Hall, the 
University still remains $8 million in debt 
for the structure. Dr. Van Horn stated that 
there would be no more fund raising 
campaigns like that of Science Hall, but 
that alumni are welcome to contribute to 
the “Fund for Distinction.’’ In 1972-73, 
the “Fund for Distinction” accrued $1.7 
million in unrestricted gifts while the con­
tributions during 1973-74 are expected to 
drop to $1.2 million. Although “zero 
‘physical’ growth” is forecast for C-MU and 
no new buildings will be constructed, Dr. 
Van Horn explained that the trustees have 
designated $5 million to upgrade and to 
rennovate the environment within the next 
five years.
Dr. Van Horn said that SCALE must 
investigate as well as make problem-solving 
suggestions. For instance, SCALE has 
reviewed an early retirement subsidy to 
encourage faculty members who want to 
teach or research at a smaller university to 
do so. He explained that most of C-MU’s 
tenured faculty have contracts with the 
University until the age of sixty-five and an 
informal agreement to continue to teach 
until sixty-eight. He recommended that the 
University maintain a constant flow of new 
faculty with new ideas to counteract the 
possible stagnation of high tenure levels.
David Brandi, an undergraduate who 
volunteered to join SCALE, said that the 
committee had discussed the possibility of 
re-investing part of each student's tuition 
back into his/her respective college.. 
SCALE has also examined a budgetary 
model for each college based upon the 
number of student units taught per college. 
If such a model were adopted, H&SS 
would receive a sizeable budgetary in­
crease. David felt that if money were 
allocated to the departments based upon 
the number of courses offered and students 
taught, then the deans of each college 
would want their majors to select electives 
from among that college’s offerings and 
thus restrict the students’ choice of outside 
electives. David remarked that it would 
only be good business sense for the deans 
to suggest this, since it would increase the 
budget of their respective colleges. David
mentioned that he and John Sisson, 
another undergraduate representative on 
SCALE, are assembling an outline report 
for consideration. David was glad that 
SCALE wanted student input, and believes, 
as does the committee, that the University 
can profit by establishing an optimum 
number of students, and, in doing so, 
maintain high quality education “so no one 
loses.”
InspectionResults
continued from page 1Curl, who assumed the position of Director 
of Housing last summer. He was pleased 
with the results because it made housing 
more aware of the actual conditions in the 
dorms. He has no plans for another in­
spection.
Montag commented that most of the 
large problems were known before the 
inspection, but that, “this will give me a 
much better start in the spring.”
¦ ¦ _____
HATHA YOGA
6-8 MONDAY 
Library Multi-Purpose Room
6-8 TUESDAY 
Skibo - Room 39
INSTRUCTOR 
S. M. Chilcote, Jr. 
VOLUNTARY DONATION
Its noi estsv al 
Antioch’
(that's the way we like it)
ANTIOCH/BALTIMORE-a college of alternatives in undergraduate and 
graduate education, a leader in new ways of learning. The Baltimore Center 
of Antioch College appeals to those who want to affect changes in our 
society. We offer a wide range of programs:
B.A.in: Human Services« Law, Community and Politics • Social Research 
and Strategies • Urban Media, including video, photography and film • 
Creative Writing • Dance • Theatre • M.A. in Media Studies
Antioch/Baltimore's concurrent work/study program is designed to aid 
students in supporting themselves and complement course work or 
individual and group projects. Most of our classes are held at night and we 
award credits for documented life/work experience. Today's colleges and 
universities must respond to the needs of the communities that surround 
them. We are committed to making our programs responsive. We attempt 
to provide financial assistance to students with need. We are considering 
applicants for Winter and Spring 1974.
ANTIOCH COLLEGE/BALTIMORE 
Ross Pologe, Office of Admissions 
525 St. Paul Street Baltimore, Maryland 21202 
Telephone: 301-837-6865

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 15, 1974What Simon Said...
by Steve Saunders
This is the second part of an interview 
with Dr. Herbert A. Simon which took 
place on the day before Thanksgiving. Dr. 
Simon is a highly respected industrial 
psychologist, computer scientist and re­
searcher of cognitive processes. In the first 
part of this interview, which appeared on 
December 4, Simon discussed his appoint­
ment to the CMU Board of Trustees and 
reacted to a humanist's fear of the implica­
tions of computer simulation of human 
thought processes.
This second part includes discussion about 
the hiring, firing and tenure of faculty. Due 
to space problems, the interview will conclud 
next week with a discussion about the organi­
zation of the university.
TARTAN: I was wondering if you wanted 
to comment on the article in the TARTAN 
(11/27/73) that said five Psychology teach­
ers who had been strongly involved in un­
dergraduate education were being forced to 
leave the department.
Simon: I guess I’d just make two com­
ments on the article. One, I think some of 
the statements in it and some of the quotes 
in it could be interpreted as meaning that 
these recommendations of the department 
represented a de-emphasis of interest in 
undergraduate education. And I just don’t 
buy that interpretation for a minute. The 
department is very much concerned, and 
has been, with undergraduate education ...I 
guess it’s been pretty successful in terms of 
the number of majors it’s attracted, that’s 
one measure. It’s reasonably successful in 
terms of the ratings that students give its 
undergraduate teachers, which is one other 
measure...
The only second comment I’d make 
about it, which doesn’t argue with any­
thing said in the article, is that these deci­
sions which one has to make about 
promotions of people, about retention of 
people and so on, are made by sub-sets of 
human beings, by committees of human 
beings. In the 24 years I’ve been around 
this place they’ve always been made with a 
great deal of thoughtfulness and care-I 
wouldn’t say for a moment they’re always 
made correctly because they are fallible 
human judgements--but they are made 
thoughtfully and they are not made at all 
lightly.
TARTAN: You say this doesn’t mean a 
de-emphasis of undergraduate education. 
And yzt the education-oriented people are 
the ones who are leaving. It seems the 
trend is toward teachers whose specialty is 
more research than education.
Simon: Well, that implies several things. 
There is, at one level of course, a certain 
“competition”, if you like, between re­
search and education in the sense that if 
you sepnd an hour doing one, you’re not 
spending an hour doing the other. In other 
senses, it’s very easy to exaggerate that 
competition.
And in fact, contrary to the results of 
the study referred to in the TARTAN’s 
article, most of the evidence shows a posi­
tive, but not enormous, correlation be­
tween research effectiveness and teaching 
effectiveness. There has been a series of-I 
don’t know how many studies have been 
made- I guess I’ve seen half a dozen studies.
And I think this is the only one that I’m 
aware of which doesn’t show at least a 
small positive relation between the two. . .1 
think the weight of evidence rather shows a 
positive correlation.
There’s still another way in which 
(research and teaching) are complimentary. 
Most (studies of teaching effectiveness) are 
based necessarily on people’s judge­
ments. .yand student ratings, and I think 
those ratings are quite informative. But 
they are perhaps least informative along 
that dimension in which the relation be­
tween research and teaching is likely to be 
strongest. Namely, students have very little 
way of judging how much of recent know­
ledge has crept rnto the curriculum--or has 
failed to creep into it.
From time to time I’ve done a fair 
amount of talking around other campuses, 
and one of the things you get a feel of 
when you visit a campus is “what year are 
they living in?” And this has something to 
do with when people got their Ph.Du’s and 
how alive have they kept since.
I don’t mean to imply at all that re­
search is the only way people keep alive, or 
that good research people are always good 
teachers-I could cite you some splendid 
counter-examples-but there are some good 
theoretical reasons for thinking there ought 
to be a positive relation. . . if we’re going 
to charge people $3000 a year, or $2700 or 
whatever it is at the moment, to come to 
Carnegie-Mellon, we’d better be quite con­
cerned with the climate of information and 
knowledge which invests the various de­
partments around here. And that 
means. .. that the quality of the education 
students are getting here-undergraduate 
education--is very much dependent on the 
liveliness of the research environment.
"EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING 
WOULD MEAN DOING THE 
KINDS OF THINGS WHICH 
MAKE A DIFFERENCE TO 
THE EDUCA TIONA L S YSTEM. ”
TAR TAN: It seems to me a fairly obvious 
point,-at least from my experience at this 
university, that the research-oriented teach­
ers here are not even remotely as good 
teachers as. . .
Simon: But you see even Professor Hayes’ 
study didn’t show that. It showed that 
there was no correlation, it didn’t show a 
negative correlation. So you just hit a bad 
sample, I guess. Because that doesn’t show 
up. He worked from mostly the students’ 
ratings, as I remember his study rightly-it’s 
been a couple years since I looked at it. 
But just go and look at the ratings, and I 
think you’ll see that that’s at worst a zero 
correlation, and I’m really not convinced 
of that, in light of the other studies that 
have been done.
But let me pursue the other side of this, 
the modernity issue, from an older exam­
ple. . . let’s forget about psychology for a 
moment because that is a very open issue 
today. GSIA started here in 1949. It start­
ed at a time when business schools were 
pretty dreary places. And a group of peo­
ple came in here who were not traditional 
business school people-who were very re­
search oriented, I might add--and who said, 
“It doesn’t need to be that way. The study
of business institutions can be intellectual­
ly exciting. It can be just as great as any­
thing else you want to mention.” And'they 
introduced what was a pretty radical curri­
culum. As a matter of fact, we didn’t even 
ask for accreditation for four or five years 
because we weren’t sure we’d get it until 
we had enough of a reputation so that they 
had to give it to us. We hit a time when the 
field of business was just beginning to 
change very rapidly. 1950 was well before 
operations research really had emerged as 
something practical for business. Com­
puters weren’t around then, and so on. 
And this group was able to bring those 
kinds of ideas into the classroom, into the 
teaching, five or ten, and maybe in some 
cases twenty-but let’s say five or ten-years 
before that was happening in almost any 
other American university.
Now, if you’re going in the right di­
rection other places catch up with you 
after a while. Most good business schools 
today maybe look pretty much like GSIA 
in terms of what they teach. But the dif­
ference in business education that people 
were getting in GSIA and were getting in 
other schools during those five or ten years 
I think was quite substantial. I think it 
shows up in the kinds of opportunities 
they got when they went out afterward. 
And it wouldn’t show up in any teacher 
rating scheme that we have now. Maybe it 
would show *up in one of the sort that 
we’ve been talking about. Now that doesn’t 
deny that the ways in which we evaluate 
teaching now-that is, formal scales, and so 
on. .. student ratings-do pick up useful in­
formation. But they don’t very much cap­
ture that dimension (of innovation). That’s 
the dimension that’s most closely related 
to research. That couldn’t have happened 
in GSIA unless that had been a research 
oriented faculty.
TARTAN: But that’s graduate education.
Simon: Well, I never really under­
stood what the difference is between 
graduate education and undergraduate 
except that undergraduate you at least 
have a chance of getting people before 
they’ve been ruined by other people 
getting them. We weren’t talking there 
about training people to be Ph.D.’s, we’re 
talking about training people to go out and 
be businessmen. The Master’s' program. 
That isn’t really very different. 
TARTAN: What about the “publish or 
perish ” doctrine?
Simon: Excellence in research, in spite of 
the usual popular beliefs about this, does 
not mean turning out “x” pages of stuff 
which somehow manages to get published. 
It means influencing the world of ideas and 
influencing other people. The research pro­
cess is a process of finding and communica­
ting new knowledge. And the way you 
judge the quality of a man’s research is the 
impact he has on a field of knowledge. If 
you want to count something, which isn’t 
always the best way of judging research, 
you don’t count a man’s papers, you count 
the number of references other people 
make to his papers, which is quite a differ­
ent thing. . . what you’re trying to judge 
there is if this man is doing things which 
really make a field different that it
otherwise would be.
But I think somewhat of the same 
flavor, in my evaluations of what teaching 
is all about, goes into a teaching evaluation. 
Excellence in teaching would mean doing 
the kinds of things which really make a 
difference to the educational system. So 
you say, “What are the kinds of things a 
person can do that really change an educa­
tional system,” either at his own insti­
tution or maybe impact on the wider 
institution.
If I looked at Lee Bock, who was the 
first dean of GSIA, I would have to, on any 
faculty, say that he obviously qualifies as 
excellent in teaching, because he built an 
important educational institution-not with 
his bare hands, some other people were 
around, too-but that’s an obvious 
example. Now it happens he was also a 
very skillful man in the classroom, but even 
if someone had cut his tongue out, he still 
would have been able to make those other 
kinds of contributions to education. On 
the research side, what we like to have in 
any first-rate university, as I say, are people 
that make a major impact on the field. And 
on the research side the kinds of questions 
we ask are: Is he among the ten best of his 
kind in the United States? And in weighing 
education, I think we have to ask the same 
kinds of questions, and we do.___________
HOW DO YOU GET A RICH AND 
CITING INTELLECTUAL 
ENVIRONMENT
TARTAN: Couldn’t a teacher know about 
the most modern theories and pass them 
along without necessarily being part of 
making them ?
Simon: I think that’s true. I think that is 
certainly true. And what I’m really talking 
about is not whether everybody on a facul­
ty needs to be a research person, which I 
don’t think is true. But whether to really 
have a first rate university or college for 
undergraduate education, you don’t have 
to have in that total environment a whole 
lot of first rate research going on. That’s 
really what I’m arguing.
You know, we really shouldn’t get hung 
up talking about what goes on in the class­
room. We should really start by talking 
about what kind of a community we have 
here, what it leads students to think about, 
what it exposes them to, what rubs off on 
them from the whole social environment, 
which includes the environment of other 
students and includes their contacts with 
faculty in and out of the classroom, but 
includes also the things they are led to do 
while they’re here, the things they are led 
to read, the things they are led to talk and 
think about as a result of this environment. 
So the first thing you worry about in plan­
ning a university is how do you get a rich 
and exciting intellectual environment. And 
I don’t know how to do that without 
having a large component of research in 
that environment.
That doesn’t mean that everyone on the 
faculty needs to be doing research. And 
while I’ve been around here, the position 
has never been taken that the only way in 
which a person can be on this faculty or 
remain on this faculty is by being a 
researcher first and a teacher second.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 15, 1974-Page 9
Co-op Opens 
In February
Pension and Salary Disputes 
Main Issues for Staff
continued from page 1 
interested in staffing the store.
There is concern about the effect the 
Skibo store will have on the university’s 
book store. The bookstore manager realizes 
the advantage of longer hours for the Skibo 
store. There is also a possibility that when 
the store in Skibo can carry certain items, 
the bookstore may cut back on that par­
ticular item and add something else. An 
arrangement has been worked out where 
by the Skibo store may purchase some of 
its items through the bookstore. This will 
enable the Skibo store to gain a better deal 
on items and these items will be sold at the 
same cost in both stores.
“The bookstore is in dire straits as far as 
facilities go, ” explained McCurdy. He 
mentioned that the bookstore has thought 
of relocating for more space in the past. A 
few years ago when plans were being made 
to 'rennovate Skibo and enlarge Tt, the 
bookstore was to be in the extension of 
Skibo. Last year when operations was plan­
ning to rennovate the Tartan Grill, they 
considered the possibility of opening a 
branch store in'conjunction with that 
space. The plans for rennovating the grill 
have since been delayed.
The idea for this co-operative store can 
be traced back to the opening of the Cor­
ner Drug Store in Morewood Gardens by 
Women’s Dorm Council a year and a half 
ago. This provided dorm residents with the 
convenience of being able to make many 
minor purchases in the dorm between 4:00 
and 9:00 pm. on most days. The store was 
able to break even and maintain itself. In 
order for the store in Skibo to operate, it 
was necessary to request of WDC that their 
store be closed. WDC agreed and sold their 
inventory to the new store for its original 
cost. The success of the Corner Drug Store 
obviated the need for a store on campus 
that could remain open at odd hours.
During the summer the idea for a store
that could break even and pay the costs of 
its operation was suggested by Tanya All- 
mond and Frank Sacco from discussions of 
Student Senate. Ira Picker of the Activities 
Board was also fundamental in the concept 
of the store. Through an independent 
study project, Janicki did the groundwork 
for the establishment of the store. When 
the proposal was made to the university, 
they agreed enthusiastically to advance the 
necessary capital.
McCurdy estimates the university spent 
an approximate $5,000 in setting up the 
store. This figure covers costs like the cash 
register, carpet, painting and fixtures. 
These items are 90% retrievable which 
means they have that much definite value 
if they were to be resold. It is harder to 
estimate the spendings on inventory, but 
McCurdy figures an investment of between 
four and five thousand dollars. Some items 
are bought on consignment, meaning they 
are returnable if they’re not sold.
McCurdy explained why money is being 
spent for carpeting the store: “The room 
has terrible acoustics and carpet can help. 
There is,” he added, “some argument as to 
whether carpet or tile floors are easier to 
clean.”
Janicki explained that one main reason 
the store could not open at the beginning 
of January was because the cabinets hadn’t 
arrived in time.
There is already some speculation as to 
the store’s future, and many questions re­
main unanswered. For instance, the A Phi
O location is rather small, and if the store 
is successful and wishes to expand, finding 
space may be a problem. There is also some 
initial caution in item range and number, 
so that the store does not over-extend it­
self. The first four months of operation 
will be very important in terms of assessing 
the store’s contribution to the campus 
community.V*~ AC/DC \/x" 
uare Root
Melcor400.
scientific w/memory.
If we sold hotcakes, they couldn’t 
possibly move any faster than the Meteors. Two 
basic reasons come to mind: 1) our prices and 2) the 
excellent performance characteristics and inherent 
quality of the products themselves.
The It00 is an incredibly versatile scientific pocket 
machine with direct square root, squaring and reciprocals- 
plus...uh, memory (we almost forgot)! The 400's memory, like that of 
the 380described below, performs individual extensions and accumulates 
results for grand totals, as well as more complex calculations.
Also: floating and preset decimal with round-off, battery-saver, 
raises to powers, credit balance, extra-large 8-digit display, real shirt 
pocket size (5 ounces, % inches thin).
Replaceable battery (it’s often easier to carry a spare than it 
is to carry a power generator) or AC operation.
Ideal for the sciences, economics, statistical* ^3^
and scholastic applications.
Philip S. Wiener
Mfg. Lift, $99.96.
229 Atwood Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 13213 
Tel.(412) 883-0313 *FriiP)rkin|
continued from page 1
general bookkeeping, handling mail, editing 
and typing papers for supervisor, editing, 
proofreading, and typing copies for books 
and manuscripts, and maintaining depart­
mental records. This grade six position, a 
high grade for secretaries, offered 447-550 
a month, with a maximum of $6,600 a 
year.
Staff retirement payment is determined 
by a formula which subtracts Social 
Security benefits from the amount taken 
from the salary every month, in some cases 
leaving retired persons with just a few
dollars a month beyond their social
security benefits.
Some comments given by staff members 
to the TARTAN illustrate other grievances. 
“If a Department has a lot of money, it can 
afford to hire more secretaries and spread 
the work around. But in some Depart­
ments, the secretaries are really over­
worked.” ... “We’re on the bottom of the 
list.” . . . “Some workers retired from Hunt 
Library not too long ago, with no re­
cognition, no extra bonus, and now they 
have to live on less than $200 a 
month.” . .. “It ends up that people walk 
out of here with very little 
money.” . .. “We get a shitty raise every 
year, and no Christmas bonus like some 
other companies give. It all depends on 
where you’re at. Some are allowed to take 
classes in the morning during working 
hours if their boss approves it, others only 
on lunch hour.”. .. “Why can’t the 
personnel office set a standard 
University-wide?”
There were other viewpoints from staff 
members though. “Actually, it’s hard for 
me to see their side. I’m very satisfied with 
my job.” About the union one secretary 
said, “Then you’d have to be here at 
exactly 8:30, and be gone exactly at 5:00.
I don’t think I want it.”
In addition there were many staff 
workers who didn’t care whether the 
Union campaign was successful or not.
Until two years ago, the staff had no 
organized recommendation-making body, 
and consequently no organized represen­
tatives to the Administration. At that time 
the Staff Council was formed. “In no way 
did the Administration hinder the 
formation of the Council, but we had 
trouble getting interactions with them,” 
said Carol Zera, chairperson of the Council. 
“The hesitancy the University had for 
action was because of what we understood 
were legal reasons. If we were taken as a 
formal bargaining unit, and the University 
co-operated, they could be subject to legal 
action. We had worked out a grievance 
procedure, but when we found out about 
the legal thing, we dropped it. We're con­
cerned about wages, and about working 
conditions, but we stayed away from 
talking, especially about wages, since that 
would make us look too much like a bar­
gaining unit. Our main push is the pension 
plan situation.”
“The University wouldn’t recognize the 
Council for a while, possibly because they 
felt it was the nucleus for a union,” Ms. 
Fall commented. “But the Faculty Senate 
operates like that.”-
The Administration’s first official re­
action to the effort came in a December 18 
memo from Richard Cyert to the staff
workers, in which he said that his 
Administration’s first priority had been to 
balance the budget, but “throughout this 
process of bringing our budget under 
control, ,we have worked directly with 
many of you and with your representative 
organization to get advice and council on 
many matters of great concern to you . . . 
Now that we have achieved a sounder 
financial base, we have begun to implement 
some of those plans discussed with you 
earlier.”
“The University definitely feels that 
a third party is not necessary,” said Ronald 
Rutledge, Chief Officer of Operations, 
although he admits that there are some real 
problems. “The staff generally feels that 
there is a caste system ... If that feeling of 
rapport and concern doesn’t exist, it 
doesn’t matter what you pay them.” He 
also sees the lack of positive action on the 
part of the administration as a legitimate 
ground for staff complaint. A number of 
plans and University steps to help the staff 
have been held up in committees and other 
bureaucratic channels for lengthy periods. 
One example is the Staff Handbook, which 
is now in its third draft. Ruth Beach, of the 
University’s Affirmative Action Office, said 
that the first two drafts had been reviewed 
and changed because of sections that “have 
to deal with policies as they effect women 
and minorities.” For instance, Ms. Beach 
and a committee are now working to 
include a maternity leave in University 
policy.
Many decisions on policy involving 
CMU staff workers are reviewed by various 
faculty members and committees. “Having 
to get the advice of faculty ... is 
maddening,” said Rutledge. “It’s the 
typical talk-it-to-death problem.”
Ms. Fall sees the Union as bringing a 
stronger voice to staff workers, thus 
making decisions more a matter of 
Administration-staff dialogue. She sees the 
next step as the education of the staff 
members concerning their rights, and the 
benefits of a Union. Concerning their 
rights, she said, “People are afraid of being 
fired, and this fear of speaking out I think 
will change when they learn what their 
rights are, that they can speak out without 
being canned. The National Labor 
Relations Board says the University can’t 
take retaliatory action.” A scheduled 
meeting between Union representatives and 
staff members presents the opportunity for 
staff members to learn more about the 
Union.
Peer Help deals with drug emergencies, 
questions concerning drugs and medical 
referrals. Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414.
Let’s help each other.+
 the
g&bor.
TKe American M Spon

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 15, 1974
THEATRE
of moon/ ond Children
by Susan N. Klein
New York- In newspapers and magazines 
people ire writing retrospectives about the 
year 1973. Film critics are selecting their 
Ten Best and Ten Worst of the year lists. 
Now everything weary and decrepit is 
moving aside for the new. But Broadway, 
the oddball, is in the middle of a season.
A little life blood is pumping, though, 
down in the Village. The revival of 
Moonchildren is doing sellout business, and 
people in New York are talking a lot about 
Steve Steinlauf. Steinlauf will be the first 
to shun any personal’publicity and self- 
aggrandizement. Any time he does an 
interview, he will insist that the writer 
make it known that the interview was done 
to benefit the show. They did a piece on 
him in the Sunday Times, with a nice big 
mug shot of Steven. Steven talked en- 
thusiasticly about Moonchildren and un­
favorably about David Merrick’s Offices.
There’s a guy in New York named Joe 
Franklin who does a T.V. show on the 
non-network Channel 9 called “Joe 
Franklin’s Memory Lane.” It’s on at the 
crack of dawn and at some crazy hour of 
the night. Joe Franklin is old and he is the 
best Trivia player in New York. Joe Frank­
lin was talking to Steve Steinlauf on his 
program one night, and I was waiting for 
Joe to say something cute like “Isn’t this 
past your bedtime?” but he didn’t. Steve 
did a lot of “Aw-shucks”ing, a' little bad- 
mouthing of the David Merrick Office, and 
a lot of promoting Moonchildren.
There’s a network program on every 
television morning in New York called the 
Today show. They have some News and 
every day they interview someone of in­
tense import and interest. When Steven 
Steinlauf was interviewed on the Today 
show, he talked somewhat unfavorably 
about his experiences with David Merrick, 
and he talked about his revival of 
Moonchildren
I seemed to see a pattern developing in 
what Steven chose to say on television, and 
in The New York Times. So one day I 
happened to be in the neighborhood and I 
dropped up to Merrick’s offices to try to 
find out if there was Something We Didn’t 
Know. Merrick was out (he doesn’t really 
exist) so I talked to Helen Nickerson, who 
is Merrick’s secretary.
“All the adults here took a great liking 
to Steven. Jack Schlissel, Biff Liff, we all 
liked Steven. An extra pair of hands and 
feet is always needed around here.”
The phone kept ringing. I looked at 
Drama Circle Critic’s awards all over the 
walls of the crowded little office. Merrick’s 
door was open and his room is completely 
devil red from ceiling to floor and it gives 
off a kind of glowing, creepy warmth.
“But we’re all upset about the great 
discredit Steven has been giving this office 
concerning Moonchildren ,” Ms. Nickerson 
continued. “Contrary to what Steven 
would have you think Merrick wanted to 
keep Moonchildren running.”
The phone rang just in time for me to 
think that keeping Moonchildren running 
wasn’t exactly the point. Now Ms. 
Nickerson was chatting on the phone about 
getting a director of comedy. “We need an 
expert farceur ”, was what she said. She 
chatted about Carl Reiner, how he didn’t
want to come to New York, how nobody 
wanted to come to New York. She was 
chatting to London. When she hung up, I 
made the mistake of suggesting someone to 
direct their new comedy.
“No, Robert Moore, has hepatitis- As a 
matter of fact, he’s show-doctoring Lorelei 
from his bed right now ...” then she 
broke off and shook a finger at me 
accusingly, realizing what I had just done. 
“Now that’s exactly what Steven would 
do! He could listen to phone calls like that 
and think he knew what was going on! He 
didn’t, though! He still doesn’t. And as 
happy as we are about Moonchildren, you 
must realize that there are a lot of people 
here who did quite a bit to help this revival 
of Moonchildren. They just weren’t given 
any credit by Steven for their help. Steve’s 
really not welcome here any more.
“Steve still is a kid. He has this success, 
he’s going on all these shows bad-mouthing 
us. He’s still got a lot to learn.”
The phone rang again. Jack Schlissel 
walked in and went out to lunch.
“I hope Steve will go back to school. 
You know, people have been calling us up 
with plays they want Steve to produce? I 
hope he doesn’t get tempted to quit 
school.
“Merrick saw Steinlauf on television and 
he read the articles in the Times. And now 
he won’t let college kids work here any 
more. He’s fed up.”
A quick flee around the corner from 
David Merrick’s offices stands (but not for 
long) the Morosco Theatre which they are 
tearing down to make way for an office 
building. (“The decrepit and old moving 
aside for the new.”) In the Morosco 
Theatre for five weeks are Jason Robards 
and Colleen Dewhurst in Eugene O’Neill’s 
A Moon for The Misbegotten. The pro­
duction was directed by Jose Quintero, 
who was the first director to renew interest 
in O’Neill’s work after his death in the 
early fifties. Quintero directed Robards in 
the famous productions of The Iceman 
Cometh and A Long Day’s Journey Into 
Night down at the original Circle in the 
Square Theatre.
This Moon was glimmering and full. The 
play is lustfull and at the same time 
delicately innocent. It was one of O’Neill’s 
last three great masterworks, and it takes 
the character of (O’Neill’s brother) James 
Tyrone from Long Day’s Journey and 
places him near his unsuccessful-actor, 
alcoholic death.
Colleen Dewhurst was energetic but 
perhaps miscast playing a woman much 
younger than herself. Dewhurst can carry 
everything off with such grace and queenly 
stature that you don’t even care about the 
age descrepencies. And Robards lanks 
around the stage with such an innate 
command of the delicious language of 
O'Neill that even the Wednesday matinee- 
Bloomingdale’s-Shopping-Bag-Crowd was 
knocked breathless.
The best sketch in The Good Doctor is 
the second-act opening scene when the 
Chekhov Neil Simon character (Christopher 
Plummer) called The Writer is strolling 
around in the moonlight on a pier waiting
for Inspiration. Rene Auberjonois, decked 
out in some seedy rags, comes slinking up 
to him, offering to show him a good time 
for the price of a few rubles. What Rene, as 
“The Drowned Man”, wants to do is 
pretend to drown as a sort of enter­
tainment for the writer. Some swell 
technical effects help to put over this 
sketch as well as others, in what is certainly 
the most underrated show in New York. 
The show combines handsomely the wit of 
Simon with the wiseness of Chekhov and 
the period costumes are as lovely as those 
of A Little Night Music. Tony Walton’s sets 
(he did Pippin ) are some of the nicest I’ve 
ever seen. Peter Link’s tricky tunes are full 
of surprises, and the melodies sneak in and 
out of the show most cleverly. The roles 
are very demandingly written, and the cast, 
especially Plummer, is eye-poppingly 
versatile.
Was it David Merrick who said that all 
actors are children? If the Off-Broadway 
actors go on their threatened strike against 
the 11 currently running off-Broadway 
productions, Moonchildren could easily 
fold. We seem to have rambled in a full 
circle here. Like the moon.
ACTIVITIES BOARD
PRESENTS
FANTASY NIGHT
FEATURING
ALICE'S ADVENTURE IN WONDERLAND 
7th VOYAGE OF SINBAD & MORE
JANUARY 1 8th — 7 P.M. to 4 A.M.
SKIBO BALLROOM 50« with AB Card

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15, 1974-Page 11
Sleeper
by Rob Sim beck
One of Pittsburgh’s daily newspapers 
recently concluded that Woody Allen had 
taken his place with Chaplin and Fields as 
a maker of tomorrow’s comedy classics. 
Although the notion is a little premature, 
and legends have a way of remaining 
untouchable, that kind of adulation is a 
good indicator of the cumulative effect of 
Allen’s genius and expertise. His films are 
satisfying, and they leave you looking 
forward to what he’ll be doing next.
After the disappointment I felt about 
Everything You Always Wanted to Know 
About Sex, his new film, Sleeper is another 
step forward. It’s a marvelously funny 
movie, maybe his best to date. He has 
added another aspect of his genius to the 
film (Woody on clarinet with his jazz 
combo did the music), and he seems to be 
getting even more adept at filling each 
moment with its own touch of zaniness. 
The effect of this movie is nothing short of 
absolute hilarity.
Woody, as Miles Monroe, is a twentieth- 
century clarinet-playing health food store 
operator who goes into a coma during a 
routine minor operation, and is frozen by 
the doctors. He is revived two centuries 
later, waking to be considered an alien who 
must run from the law, and when recorded 
history before the twenty-first century is 
virtually unknown. A few photographs and 
some film clippage of Nixon and Howard 
Cosell are all that remain.
He packs every minute with every 
conceivable type of humor: slapstick, old- 
fashioned chase scenes, outrageous visual 
gags (he stumbles upon a futuristic farm 
with six-foot bananas and a twelve-foot
chicken), one-liners: ‘7 bought Polaroid at 
seven; it must be up millions by now, ” 
pokes at everybody and everything 
(Norman Mailer donated his ego to Harvard
Medical School), “I haven’t seen my. 
analyst in 200 years. He was a strict 
Freudian. If I’d been going to him all this 
time, I’d probably be almost cured by 
now., ” pantomime, and his usual array of 
totally outlandish situations and actions 
(he has a fight with a room-sized glob of 
instant pudding.)
His expressions and pantomimes are 
especially worth watching. In a few in­
stances they look a little too much like 
Chaplin for comfort, but they are the 
work of a constantly evolving and in­
novative master of body language and 
expression. His exposure to 22nd Century 
dope is a true gas.
Diane Keaton plays a jet-setter Allen 
kidnaps, then wins over to his cause with 
his moments of gentle and witty self- 
deprecation, scenes which are touching in 
their sincerity, and in Allen’s ability as a 
charmer. Keaton is good, but, perhaps 
because of Allen’s own screen presence, she 
is little more than a springboard. The film’s 
only real lag, in fact, is a brief spotlight on 
some Keaton antics.
Picking out more specifics really isn’t 
necessary. The movie is a joy from start to 
finish. If Woody Allen has already found 
his way to your heart, Sleeper will 
entrench him further. If you’re a new­
comer to him, it will put him there. Good 
screen inanity is hard to come by, and 
Allen is a master. Besides, it’s so nice to 
hear a theatre full of people howling with 
laughter.
the big bi
Lll i. JLO.
by Stact'y Robin Kimbell
At Kahlil’s on 414 Semple Street I ate a 
Harem Delight mostly ‘cause of its title. 
Also, I know nothing about Middle Eastern 
food and the description was a stew of 
sorts. In fact, it was a stew of sorts with a 
lot of mushrooms and shredded lamb 
pieces and soaking in olive oil so that it 
could slide down your throat without 
much pain. Almost everything at Kahlil’s 
was soaked in olive oil. It’s difficult to eat 
without an ample supply of napkins to 
absorb with, so they give you a basket of 
very thick flat bread, an absorbing agent,
but the first basket is usually consumed 
before it is used as a sponge and you’ve got 
to call for another basket, for a small fee. I 
had Hommos which is chick-peas mushed 
up into a dip and that too was covered in a 
pool of oil. The oil made it too loose 
because it seems that when you wipe it 
with bread it’s not supposed to drip off, 
which it did.
They make a variety of pies with
spinach, cheese and meat in them. The
crust is hard and it’s shaped like a knish. In
the case of the spinach pie, a knish with
some green stuff pushed into the center on 
the bottom. In the cheese pies, they use 
ricotta cheese and if you want to taste it 
it’s got to be scraped off the breadcrust 
bottom. The meat pie is not lacking at 
Kahlil’s but it is far better at Ba Albeks at 
239 Atwood Street.
At Ba Albek's the price is higher but the 
meat pie is stuffed with lamb chunks and 
pignolia nuts (a nut scraped t from the 
hoof of the pig) and it’s filling enough to 
lunch on. Although they both serve the 
same type of food, all of Ba Albek's food is 
drier. At Ba Albek's the Hommos is 
practically oilless but even though it’s 
either too thick or dry or both, it doesn’t 
drip off the bread, which is the only device 
to eat it on unless you want to spread it on 
your Raw Kibbee. Raw Kibbee is un­
cooked chopped meat mixed with spices
... Dreams
by Mark Evan Chimsky
Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams tries 
desperately hard to be an American Cries 
and Whispers. Unfortunately, Director 
Gilbert Cates is no Ingmar Bergman. Still, in 
its own quirky way, the movie succeeds in 
detailing the fine madnesses that grip us all.
Opening with a jolting, brilliant ‘winter 
dream,’ the film follows Rita Walden as she 
slowly learns to shake off the idyllic past 
that haunts her, and accept living in the 
present tense. But one of the major flaws 
that plagues Summer Wishes, Winter 
Dreams is its inconsistency. Halfway 
through the film, our entire attention is 
shifted toward Rita’s husband, Harry, and 
his bout with his past. What was apparently 
meant to be a balancing factor in the film, 
(revealing Harry as an equally complex 
character), serves instead to upset the 
stream of conscious flow of the plot.
When Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams is 
not uneven, it is usually too neat. Each of 
Rita’s dreams interspersed throughout the 
film, is brimming with Freudian 
psychology, making it seem as if Rita has 
plotted her dreams so as to be easily inter­
preted by a general audience. And finally, 
the resolution, in which the characters 
confess, analyze, and determinedly set 
about remedying their problems, is too 
patly devised to be mistaken for a reality.
The dream sequences are too blatantly 
removed from reality--and unluckily, so are 
many of his supposedly real scenes. For 
instance, upon hearing that her 
homosexual son is happily living with 
another man, Rita rushes out of the quaint 
restaurant, she has been dining in, faster 
than the white tornado. The reaction is 
exaggerated to the point of implausibility.
Although the film is at times affected, it 
is also deeply affecting. Author Stewart 
Stern frequently touches upon the sharp, 
little reflexes of our human experience; the
frightening moments when we feel 
ourselves lost in the life we have con­
structed for ourselves, or the endless nights 
when sleep means entering a familiar world 
turned foreign and terrible. The vital magic 
of Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams lies in 
the acting. As Rita, Joanne Woodward 
creates an intricate, chillingly real woman. 
Her intensity and conviction more than 
meet the demands of the script. She 
possesses the remarkable ability to take a 
mundane line, and with a sculptor’s whim, 
mold it into something honest, nuanced, 
even beautiful. Martin Balsam as Harry is 
able to perform the same feat, utilizing a 
sensitivity that this talented and versatile 
actor is rarely given a chance to display.
Sylvia Sydney, portraying Rita’s “snow 
queen” of a mother, deserves an award just 
for allowing herself to appear as she does.
Epitomizing the shallow, suburban matron, 
Miss Sydney’s face is a grotesquerie of 
heavy make-up and wrinkles. She captures 
wonderfully the chic hollowness of women 
who attend arty films in the Village and 
complain incessantly about such important 
topics as lunch.
I found myself liking the film more 
often than not, minimizing the flaws as one 
does with people one truly enjoys. My ob­
jectivity was not so fogged, however, that I 
could not clearly realize the stagey, 
amateurish direction of Gilbert Cates. His 
inadequacy is most evident when he 
attempts to emulate his obvious idol, 
Ingmar Bergman. The hero-worship 
extends to Cates’ using a clip from 
Bergman’s Wild Strawberries in the scene 
depicting Rita and her mother at a Village 
matinee.
Still, the human truths expressed com­
pensate for the film’s lapses into cliched 
territory. Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams 
is like an imperfect jewel. And yet, with all 
its faults, I found it valuable, moving, and 
ultimately memorable.
???????????????????????
snd the inevitable oil and in both places 
served with onion hunks. It’s mashed flat 
against the plate with lots of fork line 
marks, arrows towards the onions. The 
Raw Kibbee has a sweet taste and is very 
ugly to look at because you can see all the 
raw fat you are going to have to eat if you 
want any of the raw meat.
Also at Ba Albek 1 had a Syrian Steak. 
Not because I’m partial to western titles 
but because it was the cheapest thing on 
the menu. It is a cross between a veal cutlet 
and salsibury steak with a spicey tomato 
sauce poured over it. It is also too small 
and too expensive, as is everything at Ba 
Albek. They serve turkish coffee in a demi 
tasse cup. Turkish coffee is mud with sugar 
and a lot of the sediment stays at the 
bottom so you have to be careful not to 
get a mouthful. It looks like tar. For Desert 
at Ba Albek’s we had skimpy, overpriced 
pieces of Baklawa which is a pastry with a 
lot of honey and almond crunch and 
Mowool which is a butter cookie stuffed
with almond. At Kahlil's we had the same
but it was much better, bigger and cheaper.
Of the two Kahlil’s is cheaper. Kahlil’s is 
a friendly place evtn though it\ so greasy. 
They haven't got a liquor license but they 
don't mind if you bring your own wine. 
They play this tinkly Indian sounding 
music to set a mood but what really does it 
are the magic carpets on the wall. Carpet 
you’d find at a ‘going out of business’ (this 
time for the last time) sale. At Ba Albek's 
there is a mural on the wall and tinkly 
music that gets faster while you’re eating 
which makes you eat faster and get you 
out quick. At Kahlil's you can sit around 
for a long time without feeling watched. 
There are 4 or 5 other Mid-Eastern 
restaurants in Pittsburgh that I haven’t yet 
encountered but for now Kahlil’s is the 
best bet.
There are 20,000 air raid shelters in 
West Germany - one for every 3,100 
people.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 15, 1974
Linda Lovelace Comes to the Pitts.
in a two-week engagement of 
one of the greatest flops in American 
theatre history, Pajama Tops. PT will be at 
the Nixon Theatre from January 15 
through January 27. The sex farce is a 
smash success in London. The joke is that 
they don't wear any. Call the Nixon Box 
Office for price information. 281-6773.
Radio Theater is Back Beginning January 
6th, radio station WWSW, 970, is bringing 
back the institution your parents grew up 
with: theatre of the air. A new mystery- 
drama is presented every Sunday for 52 
minutes, immediately following the 10 pm. 
news.
Fleetwood Mac will appear at the Mosque, January 16.
Chaplin Series at Carnegie Institute The
film section of the Museum of Art is pre­
senting a Charlie Chaplin film series begin­
ning January 11 at 8 and 10 pm. with the 
feature The Kid and the short, Idle Class. 
Three of Chaplin’s rarest shorts; A Dog’s 
Life, Shoulder Arms, and The Pilgrim, are 
the next offerings, on January 18. The 
schedule continues as follows:
January 25: The Gold Rush, Pay Day 
February 1: The Circus, The Immigrant 
February 8: City Lights 
February 15'.Modern Times 
February 22: The Great Dictator (8 and 
10:15)
March 1: Monsieur Verdoux 
March 8: A King in New York 
March 15: Limelight ( 8 and 10:45) 
Tickets are available only by contacting the 
Film Section, Museum of Art, Carnegie In­
stitute, 622-3212.
Mandrill will appear at the Civic Arena, January 19.
THE BACK DOOR?
UNIVERSITY COFFEEHO USE
PRESENTS
Orson Wells Classic "Citizen Kane"
Friday Jan. 18th — 10 p.m.
NO ADMISSION CHARGE RODEF SHALOM BASEMENT
FOOD CORNER 5th AND MOREWOOD
ENTERTAINMENT ENTRANCE - REAR PARKING LOT
OPEN STAGE
THE EXORCIST: PERSPECTIVES ON GOD AND THE DEVIL
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23 — 8:00 p.m. 
WHERRETT ROOM, SKIBO
PASTOR J. PAUL BALAS, Lutheran Chaplain, C-MU
RABBI PHILLIP SIGAL, Executive Director
B nai B rith Hillel—Jewish Community Center
FATHER PHILIP WALSH, Roman Catholic Chaplain, C-MU
Sponsored by
STUDENT ACTIVITIES, C-MU CHAPLAIN S ASSOCIATION 
OPEN TO CAMPUS COMMUNITY
All events here are subject to change with­
out notice. Check all events by phone for 
confirmation.
MEN'S VOICES NEEDED 
(women's too)
to prepare MENDELSSOHN'S 
"ELIJAH" for an April concert at 
Carnegie Hall with BACH CHOIR OF 
PITTSBURGH
REHEARSALS 
EACH TUESDAY-8:00 p.m. 
p.m. 
WINCHESTER THURSTON 
SCHOOL
For information call 563-3659

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15, 1973-Page 13
JANUARY
10 / MINNIE AND MOSKOWITZ 
17 / SHOP ON MAIN STREET 
24 / MOBY DICK 
31 / TOUCH
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
7/MISSISSIPPI MERMAID 
14 / JOHNNY GOT HIS GUN 
21 / PUMPKIN EATER 
28/GRADUATE
7/DAMNED 
14/M
21 / BAD SEED
4 / DAVID AND LISA
11 / GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD 
18/ALL THE KING'S MEN

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15, 1974
SPORTS
EDITORIAL
We did away with the center jump after each basket, because the team 
with the tallest player got the ball every time. We eliminated the dunk 
shot, because people kept breaking their wrists. Now we’ve got to go a 
step further: get a 30-second shooting dock into college basketball.
It would give a team^down by 9 points with five minutes to go an 
honest shot at pulling something out, instead of just frustrating themselves 
by fouling and hoping their opponents miss. Obviously, this will make the 
game more exciting.
But the improvement doesn’t have to start after 87.5% of the game has 
been played. There are teams in the country whose basic offensive style is 
to freeze the ball for as long as they please, and until they get "le shot 
juste”, and five to ten minutes spent passing the ball among five men is no 
big thing to them.
It is a big thing to the fan who has paid 3 dollars for a nights 
entertainment, and there are a lot of fans who just don’t find passing and 
running back and forth very entertaining.
Spectator sports are entertainment above all else, and action is the best 
entertainment of all. If a team has to put the ball in the direction of the 
hoop after thirty seconds (which is twice the amount needed to get a shot 
off, scores will increase, averages will go up, and in all likelihood, so will 
crowds.
Jeff Englund
Birdy Flies South 
for Oranges
by Mike Pochran
A face familiar to many people at C-MU 
appeared on national television New Year’s 
Day in the person of Earl J. Birdy, the 
Director of the Intramural Athletic 
Program. Birdy, a college football official, 
received the privileged job of line judge for 
the titanic clash between Penn State and 
LSU in the Orange Bowl. Birdy could be 
seen several times determining the line of 
scrimmage and forward progress of players.
“It was a great experience,” commented 
Birdy “. . . a great experience.”
Along with the regular pay received for 
officiating the Orange Bowl game, Birdy 
also was given two reserved seats to view 
the Orange Bowl parade, two invitations to 
the New Year’s Eve party at the Dupont 
Plaza Hotel, and two invitations to the
post-game party with the teams and coach­
ing staffs.
During the game, Birdy coordinated the 
official timeouts with the network 
television commercials. “It was a new 
experience,” .
Commenting on the game itself, E. J. 
said, “I thought it was a good, hard, tough 
game. A tremendous defensive battle. I 
think people underestimated LSU’s 
defense.”
“Most people expected to see a higher 
scoring game, especially from Penn State. 
But, after the game, Joe Paterno told the 
crowd at the post-game party that ‘we 
came here to do two things--win the game 
and have a good time. And we did both.’
And if Paterno and the team had a good 
time, then my wife and I had a fabulous 
time!”
To my Friends:
It was the best oftimes, 
it was the worst of times... 
It was the spring ofhope, 
it was the winter of despair.
CHARLES DICKENS, A Tale ofTwo Cities
Love,
ALAN
Paul Hamerly, Tartans' nationally ranked star.
"New" Tartans—Little Improvement
Two weeks into the new year have not 
brought any changes in the outcomes of 
C-MU basketball games. The Tartans have 
dropped their first two games to West­
minster and Bethany and their record now 
stands at a dismal 0-6.
In the 79-57 loss to Westminster, C-MU 
shot poorly from the floor and the foul 
line. The Tartans could only manage 30% 
from the field while Westminster was 
successful on 52%. To make matters worse, 
the Tartans missed 20 of 37 foul shots. 
Westminster led by 18 at the half but in 
the second half C-MU closed the gap to 9. 
Like other games in the past, the Tartans 
played well for a time and then fell apart 
completely.
The 74-60 loss to Bethany was perhaps 
more exciting than the Westminster game. 
Bethany pulled out to a 45-30 lead at the 
half. But C-MU came out fired up in the 
second half and scored 9 straight points to 
close the Bethany lead to 45-39. Four 
straight baskets by Bethany’s Tag Wilson 
ended any hopes of a Tartan victory. For 
the fifth time this year Paul Hamerly led 
the Tartans in scoring with twenty points.
In Saturday’s game with Bethany,
Coach Rudy Yaksich, trying to increase 
scoring output, reshuffled his guards and 
started Gary Bonn and Gerald Coates in 
place of regulars Mike Wegener and Chuck 
D’Angelo. However, Bonn and Coates 
could only manage 6 points together.
The root of the problem of the C-MU 
basketball team has to be traced to the 
guard position. Statistics on the 7 Tartan 
guards show that they are shooting 31% 
from the floor and averaging 2.7 points per 
game. Gary Rentsch, who sees limited 
action, leads the pack with 58% from the 
floor and 5.3 points per game. The tall 
men, Chambers and Klein, are averaging 
about 10 per game while center Paul 
Hamerly averages about 16.
For the Tartans to end their losing 
ways, a guard must be found that can con­
trol the ball and score consistently. It 
seems ironic that last season the Tartans 
could score only from the outside while 
the inside men were limited because of 
their height. The Tartans could have won 
many more games last year had they a little 
more height. However, this year all the 
scoring is being done by the inside men 
while the guards are being limited in
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY
CENTER
CMU BAGEL & LOX BRUNCH
SUNDAYJANUARY 20 11a.m.
SPEAKER:PROFESSOR A. FRED SOCHATOFF
TOPIC"Neil Simon: Moliere of the High
Rise Era?"
LOCATION:SKIBO Faculty Dining Room
FACULTY—STUDENT SABBATH
FRIDAYJanuary 18
SPEAKER:DR. ERNEST STERNGLASS
TOPIC"Energy, Oil, Environment, A
Nuclear Future?"
LOCATION:Services at 6:30 p.m. - Rogal Room - Y-IKC
Dinner at 7:15 p.m. - 2nd floor lobby - Y-IKC
(Call for Reservation by Jan. 16, $3.00,621-8875)
ISRAELI-FOLK DANCING
EVERY MONDAY 7:30 P.M. BEGINS JANUARY 14
LOCATION:Hillel Lounge, 3rd Floor, Y-IKC
CMU LUNCH & LECTURE SERIES
(See Oother Ad in Paper)
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
62VM73

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 15, 1974—Page 15
PASQUALE STELLUTE
EARNS AN EXTRA $100 A MONTH
AS A JUNIOR IN THE ROTC PROGRAM, PAT 
RECEIVES A $100 ALLOWANCE EACH MONTH. 
IN ADDITIOH, HE HAS BEEN AWARBEB AN 
ROTC FULL TUITIOH SCHOLARSHIP.M 9
Pasquale Stellute
A STUDENT PUTTING AN EXTRA EDGE ON HIS COLLEGE 
EDUCATION. A STUDENT WITH CAREER OPTIONS-A 
MILITARY CAREER and/>r A CIVILIAN CAREER.
For More Information Contact: 
PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SCIENCE.
Room 203 GYM.621-2600 x281

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 15, 1974
AN AMERICAN FILM
JANUARY 1974
SMTWTFs
@212223242526
©28293031
FEBRUARY 1974
SMTWTFs
12
(D456789
©111213141516
©18192021
22
Mid-Semester Grades Due 8 :30 A.M.23
24
25
February
26
Holiday
27
All Classe- Rosum«*28
MARCH 1974SMTwTFs
12
|©456789
©111213141516
©181920212223
24 / 
/ 31
25
S 1
26
i i
27
\ t.
28
K 1
29
C l
30
s s
APRIL 1974
SMTWTFs
i
All Classo- Ki-sunu-23456
d
8
3VEH91011
1 2
COODFRIDAYNo Holiday
13
PASSOVER
s-KiKASTKli 1
ontiuedp
1516
23
1718
19
Spring C No Day Eveninp ClCla-sc. for 1Students
20 |
srnivr 1’lapses a^ses and ic-lollefce 1 is usual
0)2224
c25
26
Last Day of
Cl‘”" 127
January
13 The Gold Rush
20 The Music Box
Mr. Smith GoesTo Washington
27 Public Enemy 
Little Ceasar
February
3 Stagecoach 
10 42nd Street 
17 Citizen Kane
March
3 Dial M For Murder 
10 Some Like It Hot 
17 Paths of Glory
April
7 Bonnie And Clyde
14 The Thomas Crown Affair
21 Animation Series Starring 
Daffy Duck 
Bugs Bunny 
Mickey Mouse 
Betty Boop 
Felix The Cat
J3m
et
O
(/>
¦omO
m
> oQ. Q)
3 3(/) CD 
cn (OO’ CD'
if cn cd
° O 
Dc
<’CD
cn
5= P°CD CD —* •
CD o
3 3oo3
cn
&o
>
=3
po
ID
OCLCo
O
D
