¿Setío*j ¿SeStíofwKSií
Hunt libr¿
The Official Organ of Carnegie-Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Volume .7. Number 2.3. April 1. 1984.
iGorpheus is at it again
ZBT pledge causes protest
ly lyr lady di MELLOWKID
[satrot staffwriur
A near riot broke out on the fraternity 
[quadrangle last Thursday as the result of 
lex-Student Senator Gorpheus Allison’s 
[recent pledging to Zeta Beta Tau. As news of 
fZBT’s new member spread through the 
[campus, interest and tempers rose, espe­
cially those of Student Senators. Anger grew 
I to outrage as a large group of protesters 
¡shouted insults and hurled cookies at the 
,/BT house. As the mob began to grow vio- 
(lent an unidentified student jumped onto 
I the porch in full Society for Creadve Anacro- 
jnisms garb. She shouted that she would 
[“defend the honor of the house,” and drew 
[her sword to keep the protesters from enter­
ing the house. As protesters approached the 
front steps she began waving her sword, 
resulting in injuries to three students who
had to be hospitalized. Campus police 
arrived and were able to disperse the crowd, 
but had to pursue the SCA member on foot 
as she tried to escape.
Commenting on the situation, ZBT’s 
president said, “I don’t understand why so 
many people are upset. Gorpheus has many 
of the same beliefs and principles that we do, 
and we felt that someone of his stature 
would improve our relations with campus 
administrators.”
“I have always admired the Greek System 
here at CMU and have considered becoming 
a member for quite a while. I think ZBT was 
unjustly suspended last semester, so I’m 
going to use my influence to try to help 
them,” Allison commented. No charges 
have been brought against the SCA member 
as of yet, but the issue is still pending.
\ZBT contracts for murder
¡By A, WENCH
\Tartan Yellow Journalist
Director of Housing, Phony Martin, has 
confessed to hiring the Zeta Beta Tau frater- 
Inity to solve the housing shortage. In a tape 
Irecorded statement last week, Martin 
)bhed, “I hired ZBT to have the wine tast- 
[ing party and kill a couple of freshmen!” 
¡Errant Moron, former ZBT President, has 
iemed die charges, but refused to comment.
The Ghablis Chug-a-thon, held early last 
¡fall, sent three freshmen to Shadyside Hospi- 
jial. All three, who refused to be named, are 
[now enthusiastic members of the fraternity. 
| ZBT’s too cool to do something like that. 
[We’re the greatest fraternity that CMU’sever 
¡seen. The party was nothing out of the ordi- 
[nary. We all just sat around and played a
couple of games. Some of the brothers don’t 
even drink,” commented one of the fresh­
men. When asked about the events leading 
up to his hospitalization, the ZBT brother 
said, “WTiat hospital? I don’t remember any­
thing. I just kind of fell asleep early.” 
According to officials, one of the freshmen 
almost broke the fraternity, record of fortv 
botdes in one-half hour.
Martin was scheduled for arraignment 
Friday. However, he escaped Monday and is 
now at large with a 44 Magnum Automag. 
He was last seen wandering the hallways of 
Morewood Gardens screaming, “Death to 
all freshmen!!” Students who reside in sin­
gles are especially to be on the lookout, as 
Martin earlier had planned on converting 
all singles to triples.
Debbie comes again—this time in “Debbie Does France” with French President Francois 
Eatandrun. Debbie, Francois, and CMU President Dick Cyrat held a closed door meeting last 
week and consummated the deal.
WWIII to solve problems
By DAN TOO—BIASED
Natrat Editor in Chief
The first university war lobby since the 
late 1960’s was held last Wednesday. Over 
650 students from the East, Midwest, and 
Mideast, including one or two from some­
where in the vicinity of Pittsburgh, asked 
their congressmen to take legislative action
Gorph upholds the law once more
By DAN TOO—BIASED
[ Va/rai Editor in Chief
Once again several CMU students have 
I been arrested as a result of the courageous 
¡activities of the public-spirited student Gor- 
[ pheus Addleson. While walking across the 
| cut, Gorpheus spotted three students cross­
ing Forbes Avenue when the Don’t Walk 
: sign was lit. He immediately ran in pursuit 
| °f the students, tackled them, and flagged 
I down a nearby Pittsburgh Police car. The 
students were arrested for jaywalking, and 
Gorpheus was given a commendation by 
the chief of police for his meritorious con- 
: duct in catching these heinous criminals.
However. Dean Waters was critical of
Goipheus, saying that he had “comprom­
ised the security of the university” by invit­
ing the outside police to intervene in 
campus matters. But Mr. Addleson claims 
that “The law must be obeyed. I am just 
making a statement that the university must 
not tolerate the widespread jaywalking that 
goes on.” When it was mentioned that there 
were no cars coming for several blocks in 
either direction when the students were
not right, you should express your dissatis­
faction with it. Until it is changed, you must 
abide by it.”
The students face a possible thirty-year 
prison term as a result of their crime. Gor­
pheus has announced his candidacy' for 
President of the United States, vowing not to 
stop until all this blatant lawbreaking is put 
to a stop. Hun tliibr¿Rou tRnbb has already
crossing, he responded that, “If the law is endorsed his candidacy.PLCB's Guy arrested
as Joe Freshman becomes 
on Mars.
By ADAM THE ANT HANDS-IN
+Tartan Assistant Entertain-me Editor
A frantic call for help and a quick phone 
call by an alert neighbor resulted in the 
arrest of a PLCB agent in Morewood 
Gardens last Wednesday. Police were sum­
moned to the room of H8cSS freshman Janet 
Daniels after receiving a phone call from 
Daniels’ neighbor Ginny Goodeed.
“All I heard was someone screaming for 
help, so I thought I’d better call the police,” 
said a slightly anxious Goodeed.
Although neither the police nor Daniels 
would speak to a hBiRBi reporter, official 
police reports were easily obtained. The 
reports suggest that PLCB agent Brad Guy 
simply "walked in” to Daniels’ room, and 
then attempted to “check her I. ft" Daniels
first questioned Guy’s identity, then refused 
his request because she “wasn’t drinking 
anything anyway.”
This angered Guy, who threw' Daniels 
onto her bed and reportedly stated You’re 
going to get served even without your I. D„” 
w hich prompted Daniels’ plea for help.
Police arrived within minutes to find Guy 
forcibly restraining Daniels. “She had a 
‘screwdriver’ and an ‘orgasm’, and by God if 
I wasn’t going to let her get away with that.” 
In an official statement, District Attorney 
Richard Carter said, "What we obviously 
have here is a perverted mind, driven by an 
obsession to eliminiate alcohol abuse. ’
Guy is being held in the county jail in lieu 
of bond. A hearing is set for April 31.
to escalate the arms race.
The lobby platform was made of surplus 
orange crates and was rather rickety. How­
ever, the lead speaker managed to keep his 
balance on the top of it, and announced the 
aims of the group. They support a legisla­
tive freeze on the testing and production erf 
new' arms-control treaties, provided the 
Soviet Union continues to produce those 
wonderful nuclear weapons they are world- 
famous for.
According to one member, “A was is just 
what our economy needs. WWII did a great 
job of ending the depression; think of w hat 
wonders a new war would do.” Another 
added “Look at how it would solve our 
population problems!” Also brought up 
was the wonderful suntan one can get from 
a nuclear blast. “It would let Pittsburgh resi­
dents get a tan that would be the envy of 
anybody in Florida!”
The students had the opportunity to 
speak with Representative Bill Coyne- 
Collector and Senators Heinz Ketchup and 
Arlen Spectre. A student asked Coyne- 
Collector if he was overly influenced by 
large corporations, but he was unable to 
answer, as he had to leave right a wary to 
attend a banquet given in his honor by the 
U.S. Steal Corporation. Meanwhile, Senator 
Ketchup said that he supponed the MX mis- 
sle as a “bargaining chip.” According to 
Ketchup: “What we are saying to the Rus­
sians is: ‘I see you, and raise you 10 meg­
atons.' At this rate, we can build up the 
stakes at a phenomenal rate.”
The lobby may represent the beginning of 
nationally coordinated lobbying by campus 
war groups. In preparation for the day, war 
group« at many campuses, including the 
CMU Wrar Alliance, have been building fal­
lout shelters, and are stocking them with 
party favors for the big celebration that wall 
come w hen their efforts culminate in World 
War III.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
e . à ' " ' ^ - - - - ' w r w ' w « Communist plot invades CMU on all fronts
Now is the time for all good students to realize what a 
really rotten university CMU is. We must unite in this 
belief. For “united we stand, divided we fall.”
Just take a look around. The Greek system is the root 
of all evil. We won’t even say anything about their 
parties and the litter they practically grow on their 
lawns. Look deeper. So far this semester, they have 
conducted an evil blood drive, a sinister systic fibrosis 
fundraiser, given away dirty scholarships and halped a 
nurse get her nasty doctorate. Well, I have it on good 
authority that it’s all a Communist plot. The blood will 
go to Communist insurgents in Central America, the 
scholarship» are going to the education of the comrads 
of Youth For Another Stalin, the nurse will administer 
the blood, and worst of all there is no such thing as systic 
fibrosis, it’s just a Communist plot, like the entire Greek 
system._________________________________________
Student Senate is also full of Commie pinkos. Just 
look at their record. They actually care about what 
happens at this school, so they must be Communist. 
Any red-blooded American knows how unpopular it is 
to care. I just hope they keep impeaching each other. 
Soon there won’t be any Senators left.
Then there is administration, another group of Com­
mies. We all know that all Cyrat is interested in is 
networking all Warsaw Pact nations with computers. 
Remember, Francois Eatandrun is a socialist; Cyrat must 
be even worse. That’s why he has ignored every other 
major. Never mind that the education derived from 
every department of campus has improved since Cyrat 
became president. It’s just a front. He has no concern for 
the rest of us.
What do you think of when you hear the name Dean 
Braden Water. Punishment of course. He is the penal
arm of the CMU Communist BLoc. Especially when it 
comes to the Greeks. First ATO, then ZBT, and then thi 
Final Solution. And his voluntary position as liason 
between the administration and fraternities is a perfect 
example of his trying to worm his way into the inner 
circle. Let’s face it, Water and the rest of Warner Hall is 
against us. I think that as punishment, we ought tc 
permanently change Brad’s name from Water to Waters,
Let’s not forget any of the communists. Those 
hackers, dramats, stupid H&SS students, boring engi- 
neers, pro-lifers pro-choicers and anybody who was a 
member of the Mickey Mouse Club are all evil Commu­
nists. And we must avoid all propagandists like Hun 
hBiRBi# the organ of Camegie-Mellon University.
Remember, we must all stand together against such 
forces. Otherwise, we will be forced to see each other's 
point of view—obviously a Communist plot.
Libertarian screams againToo-Biased renounces everybody except him
By DAN TOO—BIASED
As you should know by now, I am the last 
bastion of individual liberty in the world. In 
my column I have stood against all the hor­
rible invasions of liberty which make our 
government as bad as the Soviet Union.
However, the government has had the arro­
gance to completely ignore my eminendy 
sensible proposals, and continue to invade 
the liberty of its citizens. Here are a few more 
horrendous examples.
For years now, it has been illegal to driveLetters:
Letter considered libelous
To the readers of Hun hBiRBiù
On February 31, 1984, Hun hBiRBi pub­
lished a letter which I consider to be libe­
lous. I have spoken with a number of 
students and faculty here, and after I 
smacked them a couple of times with my 
sword, they seemed to be in agreement with 
me. I do not intend to argue here about the 
content of the letter; this is merely another of 
my vicious, unsubstantiated personal 
attacks which I love to make. There have 
obviously been some changes made in Hun 
hBiRBidb editorial policy.
The current editor in chief has admitted 
that after they recieved one of my letters, 
another smear on fraternities, The hBiRBi 
actually allowed another person to write a 
letter showing a contrary opinion. When I 
was Editor In Chief, Hun hBiRBi had an 
express policy forbidding any letters or 
columns which disagreed with me. 
Obviously, this policy has been changed, so
that the staff of Hun hBiRBi# or any of the 
half-dozen or so other people who actually 
read this paper, can take unfair advantage of 
their p>ositions to ensure that my holy writs 
are profaned by allowing their senseless 
opinions to be published beside them.
All potential letter writers should now be 
aware that the editor in chief is a total buf­
foon, and he would probably stoop so low as 
to alter people’s letters to say things they 
didn’t mean to say. I am an idiot; all my 
previous letters are worthless trash; the pres­
ent editor of Hun hBiRBi is a really nie guy.
Bill the Editor
Former hBiRBi Dungeon Master
gulLn The Natrat klk *oi cunck .liu BlLL 
B*k BpoLoolznb foR B*y uBRm li mBy uBvn 
cB¿bnk ulm# iun nklioR bilLL uBinb ulb o¿ib# 
B*k .lLL co*il*¿n io p¿rLlbu B*y B*k nvnRy 
LniinR iuBi Rlpb ulm ¿p Bb nffncilvnLy Bb un Rlpb 
nvnRyo*n nLbn.
Anenar[ct
BiU TMÉ" EtXToK
The Natrat people of the year
on the left side of the road. The government 
justifies this invasion of liberty by claiming 
that it is necessary for safety. However, this is 
plainly ridiculous, since the British govern­
ment, being leftist in nature, allows drivers 
to drive on the left side. The British actually 
have fewer traffic accidents than us. The 
traffic cops who enforce these idiotic rules 
are ciminals, and should be imprisoned, if 
not executed.
But an even more blatant example of a 
law which intrudes on civil liberties is the 
law against murder. It a murder is success­
fully executed, there is no victim left to com­
plain. Thus, murder is a “victimless crime,” 
and it is unjust for the government to forbid
somebody from peacefully killing other 
people in the privacy of his home. However, 
I hasten to add that one must always be 
responsible for one’s own actions. Thus, ii 
you scream too loud in the course of being 
murdered, and disturb your neighbors, then 
your heirs should pray the neighbors dam­
ages for noise pollution.
The above examples show definite proof 
that our government is tyrannical. So do a 
public service: kill one government agent 
every day. You will be helping to make this 
world a better place.
DB* HooàBlBbnk lb B bopumoRlc AppLlnk 
HoRi¿Rn mBjoR# B*k Llknb io b*oop BRo¿R¿ 
iun Natrat office.
Yet more letters The Natrô
about abortion
Editor
People who have sex out of wedlock are 
evil. Therefore, the foetuses are evil. They 
ought to be deleted, expunged, and other­
wise expiated with nuclear radiation.
As you can probably tell by now, I’m a 
pro-choicer. I’ve got no objection to saline 
solutions or coat hangers.
Anybody so insensitive as to suggest that a 
woman’s body is not her own is party to a 
Communist Plot.
Terry Tartan
Editor
People who have sex out of wedlock are 
evil. Therefore, they ought to have to pay for 
their mistake for the rest of their lives. That’s 
why abortion ought to be outlawed.
As you can probably tell by now, I’m a 
pro-lifer. I’ve got no objections to forcing a 
kid to go through life with parents who 
don’t want him.
Anybody so insensitive as to suggest that 
abortion is not murder is party to a Commu­
nist Plot.
Albert Kamus
Editor
People who write letters about abortion 
are evil. Anybody foolish enough to think 
that a page in a campus publication should 
be devoted to expression of piblic opinion 
ought to be shot.
As you can probably tell by now, I’m the 
most foolish letter writer yet. Anybody so 
insensitive as to suggest otherwise is a Com­
munist like me.
Mary Du 11 manSlander Policy
Editorials BppnBR Bi iun iop of pBon i.o 
o*Ly l* The Natrat B*k RnfLnci Rlcdb 
opl*lo*.
Columns BRn RnBLLy Lo*o plncnb of kRlvnL 
.Rliin* foR iun rn*nfli of olvl*o iun cBmp¿b 
comm¿*liy bomniul*o io compLBl* Bro¿i. 
Letters BRn boLlclink ry iun nklioR io Biinmpi 
io bLB*knR Bb mB*y pnopLn Bb pobblrLn.
Head Head .... 
Head Zookeeper
......................Rat Mudrow
..................Susie “It’s just
not done” Petra
Risky Biz Manager-----Kany-on No-Tie-lack
Booze Editor.......................................Kneel Syria
Greenblum
Creatures Editor.........................N. J. Johnstoned
Entertain-Me Editor...........Spark “The Jester
LeCreme
Spores Editor......... ...............“More Stats” ATO
Lewdis
Reissod Editor................................Jude Moraless
Pornography Editor...........Spike “I should have
been home an horn 
ago”PilleUski
Destruction Manager.............................Riva Riva
Gnittesepyt Manager....................Patme Carlisle
Detracting Editors..................................A. Wench
Pawline Framer
Asst. Des. ..............................Mary J. Uana Fields
Asst. Ent. Editor.........................Adam “The Ant
Hands-in
Asst. Spores Editor...............................Dennis Be
Menace Bozzo
Assc. Biz Manager............................Bony Topg
Head Rat......................................Dan Too-biased
Head Coach ................................... Peter Pain
PLCB Liason........................Senator Gorpheus
Allison
Head Hacker ......................   Jeff "California of
Bust” Harley-Davidstf
Head Banana..................Banana Don Eggh
Head Bitch....................................Steve “I shall be
heard” Revolts
Reproduction Staff: Andy Svengalli, Feath05 
NewTon, Elena "You don’t have to do anythin 
to my name” Gialamas, Mr. Moose.
Copyright © 1984 by The Natrat. We here at The 
reserve usually no rights to do anything. Compla*”1* 
may be filed — or not. Editorial Offices: any I«3* *^ra, 
any non-particular time. Business Office ^ 
Room, second to the last door on the right, West ^ 
Beach International Airport. Mailing address, 
same ladies' room. Funded by The Wiz Kids an 
President of France.
Before you get angry. This is Hun 
Nothing here is true. Any resemblan 
between anything in the real world ana j 
issue is purely coincidental. Besides, Jts 
in good fun. Have fun!

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
matures Editor goes off deep end and spews forth horse-puckey to create article
SCOOP JOHNSTON
¿idb Only Sane Editor
llioRdb *oinù Hun foLLo.l*o BRilcLn lb iun 
fi B*k LBbi of B bnRlnb iuBi co*iBl*b Brboà 
oLy *oiul*o Bkl* io B boclBLLy RnknnmBrLn 
ILln. Hun* .uy .Rlin li? BncB¿bn Idm FnB­
ib EklioR B*k lidb Bro¿i ilmn my *o*bn*bn 
*oilcnk. So iunRn!
iis is my lead paragraph. It’s supposed 
itch your attention and make you want 
ad the rest of my article. As C. Johnston 
[ me (he’s the one who got me started on 
i), it has to reach out and grab them by 
i ^Hs. Whether or not I do iuBi# of course, 
ends on what you look like. Well, I’ve 
[eady violated two of his guidelines: my 
is too long and it hasn’t grabbed you 
[iless you’ve gotten this far). But read on 
wav.
Jot many people notice my presence. Be 
iue to my lack of charisma, charm, good- 
bks, or big mouth, I’m still around. I 
[tice everything in my quiet, shy, and very 
erved manner (believe that one, suckers, 
I’ll tell you I’m still a virgin).
§But moving on -to more important mat- 
s, has anyone noticed anything of interest 
this section? What’s that you say? You 
ven’t even noticed the section? Shame on 
Hu. I’ll just have to bring you up to date. 
[Two of the more noticeable events were 
jits of defective, er, defected Russians —
tKopelev and Arkady Shevchenko. Both 
e in Features and both were boring. No 
bnder they left the Soviet Union — no one 
Inted to listen to them anymore.
The extremely popular “Teacher of the 
Week” series got lost along the way. It 
briefly resurfaced and became ‘‘Teacher of 
the Month.” That, too, sank out of sight. A 
lemon is a lemon by any other name.
Two new series were started: ITG/ 
and Security Safety Tips. The former was 
begun because the title contained 
vlcn and vlRi¿n and I thought it was about 
porno. The latter began out of the kindness 
and generosity of my loving heart for all the 
poor, dumb slobs who don’t know no better 
than tq be careful. ^ #
The highlight of the year, so far, has been 
the eight Democratic presidential candi­
dates. Their ideas and stances on pressing 
issues were spread over two weeks to cover 
BLL the important topics. It was intended to 
inform all you concerned students (ha, ha) 
so you’d know how to vote in 
Had T but waited, only three 
would have had to be run. As 
concerned, that’s bilLL three too many.
In closing (which you never say in an 
article), just some last comments. Yes, some 
of my photos have been strange. (Case in 
point: the photo with this article.) Yes, some 
never went with the article they were by. And 
yes, some just never went at all.
My best attempts, though, were with 
snow pictures. Before any flakes could hit 
the ground (and Fin not talking about my 
friends), I’d yell “Snow Photos!” Some have 
been interesting. The others? They were just 
filler.
I’m trying (not an apology, you shits). I’ll 
keep on trying. But if I can’t be a tad avant-
photo by ME
Once again, another Features photo that doesn’t go with the article.
garde (I’m so cultured) and joking, who can? not unlike myself, has been and always will 
Anyway, my motto, patterned after a Diva be: fuck 'em if they can’t take a joke!Cyrat makes oily deal with OPEC for computers/hackers
Speech program offered to TA's
| Jamie McMcMcand 
’¦ to the Natrat
le University Teaching Center, in 
Iponse to many teaching assistants 
buests is offering a program designed to 
Lilitate better communications between 
|A.s and students. The program called “Se 
àbla TA-ese” will offer students quickie 
jurses in Indian and Chinese.
¡Some unruly students are protesting that 
1 T.A.s should be taught to speak English 
[ice they are in the United States, in a 
inly English-speaking university. UTC’s 
, Teddy Bear Fenton, replied that 
the T.A.s are picked by the profes- 
rs> they are obviously considered capable 
teaching as they are, so it must be the 
dent’s fault. I mean, if a student takes an 
ctrical engineering course, they’re 
peued to learn the language of the course. 
>’s to say that Indian isn’t a better lan­
guage than English to teach Physics in? 
Goofball students!” This last line seemed to 
spoken to impress his idol, Dirk Cyborg. 
Fenton said that Ishna Bishna Taj Majol 
will teach classes for the Chinese and Tai 
Wen Chen Shen for the Indians. The classes, 
held Tuesdays and Thursdays respectively, 
will be in Weanie Hall 9500 at 5:30 a.m.
For further information on either of the 
above, call xl311 for the Indian course and 
xl312 for the Chinese. Please have a phrase 
book of Swahili handy when calling.
By FANCY ADDLEBRAINED
Natrat Space Cadet
It was announced last night that the sea­
son of spring has been cancelled for students 
at CMU. This decision by President Cyrat is 
a result of a pact made recently with the 
OPEC leaders.
Wanting to remain in par with the Euro­
pean countries, the Middle East has turned 
to our school for computer aid. In a secret 
meeting last week, Cyrat met with OPEC 
leaders to negotiate a fair trade and chose to 
assist these countries. The deal is scheduled 
to begin immediately.
Minor segments of this agreement are still
in the working, but several of the major 
ideas were released at last night’s press con­
ference. CMU is supposed to send two 
hundred and three personal computers with 
step-by-step instructions to the Mid-East. In 
return, CMU will receive free oil to heat its 
dorms. Due to this sudden and immediate 
increase, Cyrat has demanded that spring be 
denied access until late May.
An added attraction for CMU is the fact 
that OPEC wants two hundred and three 
hackers to be sent along with the computers. 
Cyrat happily agreed to transfer the hackers 
and even volunteered to send more. Unfor­
tunately, this request was-denied.
By BILLY BALDY
Natrat Neurotic
gBb FRB*colb EBiB*kR¿*b iRB*bLBioR inLL­
l*o ¿b nvnRyiul*o.? gBb iun FRn*cu tRnbl­
kn*idb bpnncu RnBLLy Bro¿i iun vliBL *nnk foR 
mBbb comp¿inR k*o.Lnkon? I ko*di iul*k bo.ho
What Francois Eatandrun actually said at CMU
photo by the High Priests of Spain 
student studies the meaning of life in the mathematics of the four states of be- 
Hist du mude?; bist du krank?; bist du tot?; bist du ein Schornsteinfeger? If E didn’t 
who would?
A* OfflclBLàioàiunàhBiRBi iRB*bLBilo* uBb 
j¿bi comn l*io o¿R offlcnb fRom B mBjoR 
FRn*cu *n.bpBpnR iuBi .lbunb io RnmBl* 
B*o*ymo¿b. FoLLo.l*o lb iun B¿iun*ilc vnR­
blo* of EBiB*kR¿*b ulbioRlc bpnncu.
“Good evening drug abusers* alcoholics, 
and greasy, zit-faced nerds. I can’t believe 
that I made this God-forsaken trip to talk to 
you degenerates. Where am I anyway? Hell, 
since President Cyrat is paying me $900,000 
of your tuition money, just so Camegie- 
Mellon can get on the front page of the Press 
for something other than alcoholism, I 
guess I can spare you an hour or so. But, do I 
have to eat that garbage from Kiltie?
“First off, where are all the girls on this 
campus? I mean ‘real’ girls, like the kind we 
have in France. The kind that you can look 
at in the morning and not think you’ve just 
slept with someone whose been miserably 
whipped with the ugly stick since birth. I 
came here this evening expecting to see 
some swinging American chicks and all I 
see are finalists for the “Missing Link” con­
test. Remind me to bring a date next time.
“What is a computer anyway? The only 
time that I’ve ever heard the word ‘compu­
ter’ was when Dicky Cyrat said, ‘Yank all of 
the English departments computer 
accounts—they’ll never find out.’ Why 
would anyone want a computer anyway? I 
wouldn’t want to go around sticking my
‘floppy’ into a slot that I didn’t know. Eve­
ryone at CMU seems to be sticking the ‘flop­
pies’ into something. No wonder those 
computer rooms smell.
“I would like to thank all of you students 
though for standing in manure to hear me 
talk. Come to think of it, there are some good 
points about CMU that I have noticed: Gor- 
pheus Allison is one. I would like to take 
Gorpheus back to France with me to show 
the people in my country what not’ to look 
like. Where did you people find him any­
way? He looks like a mix between Barbra 
Streisand and ET.
“All seriousness aside, CMU is really not 
that bad of a place. It’s terrible. And as soon 
as that Indian comes close enough to me, I’ll 
give him this award and get out of here.
Hlmn pBbbnb B*k CyRBi pRnbn*ib MliinRB*k 
.liu bomn comp¿inR plci¿Rnb.
“What the hell are these, Richie? I don’t 
want these, here, somebody take these and 
throw them out. Geese, I come all the way 
over here, and all I get are some lousy pic- 
turs? That’s the last straw, I’m going hack to 
the Riviera and have some real’ fun.
Ho. iR¿n iulb Bcco¿*i of EBiB*kR¿*db 
bpnncu lb .n mBy *nvnR k*o.. B¿i o*n 
iul*o lb foR b¿Rnù FRB*colb klk*di nxpnci RBj 
Rnkky io klbb ulm i.lcn.
Editor's note: this article is over. 
So is your life if they drop the bomb.

---------------------------------------------------

This space intentionally left blank
Entertain melt
yfKKyihK. y9KKy9KK&iKKWHY BOTHER ANYWAY, eh
By QUARK QUININE
Tartan Entertain-me Editor
And MADAM LANIN
Assistant to the Entrrtam-mr Editor
And HEDO LANIN
Mother to the Assistant to the Entertain-me Editor
And NEVILLE KRAMER
Brother to the Entertain-me Editor
And EVERYONE ELSE
People who butt in with their unwanted ideas for 
the Entertain-me Editor
this issue, once again. Art. Poetry. Movies. 
Every style of music, from Rock to Rock. I 
mean, “Classical to Rock.” Oh and I forgot 
books. Okay, well, let’s see. Poetry. Um, 
somebody’s reading SOMETHING down 
at.... Forbes Gallery, I think. Or something. 
Well, anyway, it’s a dying art farm, so you 
don’t have to go see it. Art. God, haven’t we 
seen enough Art on this campus 
ALREADY?! Cool it, huh?! I mean, if I 
walk into C,F.A. one more time and see
Hi. Well, we’re trying to get everything in someone’s dirty sheets hung from the bal-Qxzyabcd ef rtser b
Bruit: Aoiiii fc )ipRt\ time since good music 
Vf^tablp atticbugackitllurgh. But this year 
was different. Many people liked the aura of 
helplessness ipot$e band showed. The sexu- 
Kfilhk Main <r#iitcctttiudible. Everyone threw 
Rrea£ icmchereLraft «an someone do that?” he 
atahijne&ipitlic pnfyiarajpMn t fobtijddny (war 
y were crushed and suffo- 
^(RIchaa)dIM.li£yeiit c rowd rushed the stage, 
oblnotfcis drdnff J. wthat tie, ihask atidutMd« 
BonK apiwjur^xMrwlior hedvtliieprogress we 
h a iki n 1 atie ta tc )(L jni tfc ia - frfrriibte Icnaaemning 
ifoopfaekpHBshdiediyigi Harm a rmmi'Vta&rt an 
thrusting, pulsafcejtfhidos Dcric aeHointerim 
“How many tincridttlaBshnpkiiepqnatoyuid 
asked. Too mahae/ifr’yciheirgobeto prevent 
cated by the driri^hfihnv fcronqnlpatfdnvnb 
dm \+h tfapg^tsorah fends ¦ n kM t dnren fadultS; 
hate feat ^ ntihemej < hn spm d eh nfi l^h) toseoi 
Hcfitan liathajughtfofbebEriuc'aQsnQ^MaMt 
a^feictsn t>nDeheic>{k»emot CcoHicaii vfoioiii'v: 
thipr<krrbasinot pffia&infpioiLall levels. I am 
setfemggdek Kxnitd KWDtiiQe^Boit^aistiotxihle 
iffhffldcwr oh« tmonevot^anr ti»ife\{iffee^a,iteml 
brim egdrat tils thicqBS&hanj^nr>dttiifc>iDad tu
til tsffh died (rfirixbhèisaai^iGariiBietoi hspehit
hieimfcrsit HTtdt’ tjber )pdbmhi3 tspoanh i tLc Appikc-1 
tàriNta^iVfclitprèf lievarsi sw tiriisdt .‘Uarhiiiofc 
8dsieaiióm#fnasakjLaiiìCE (^ahwnsoacnainaii© 
cktti ntìifaa IsxedMonterih ¿'hàfogeitt)izi$:hii$ 
tbssainkntinue to VOLUNTARILY return 
thoÉihìtncdfuntifi)Huèriisiioige at the moment 
is Bwt fef^^nufnlffeoidtfmketabeltdaeiwahe 
eighrioahamri -eerhpiaaais ttugiaaariri rtgshrgtite 
pompuittMick'ido1 trank possrailimi;tt»cs fee a 
piajor. l^icfarhginfeàsiiBttgtètttegTihanf 
mattai t^àéhingaia jDatókjgàtè ¦jkatwr p«rwi hw 
dc»lutrant thapawlfefcesfajuhea xtdHdnapiadiD 
àie ^kdaicb -herweitidhiiBa ihaukhpgoniatte 
protèsi caiteabeai >fir»fiP 
Bureau
Égtfl,and
¿»¦¿the-w s« td< iè tìranatfx (Hmm 
delega lev éain^s: ^Vilhaii t( EBunte, ttoe? 
daanndbr (mròBnoticd, tHsataìaieiì fituoèsetìe ia 
(faóàlapiHg alpdiiHitaijipntifrVi oferc nomati h> 
flftprQMdai^sneriving force of the music.Chewing the KUD
By THE SAVAGE
Natrat Staffwriter
Kud, spewing their country-punk sound 
across the nadon, has America on its feet — 
and running to the bathroom. Their unique 
brand of — er — music aims right at the gut 
(occasionally a bit lower) and twists hard.
Lead vocalist Billy Joe “Spike” One-eye, 
wearing leather overalls and a tom shirt and 
chewing tobacco, described the band’s orig­
ins.” Well [Spits], we all come over from thu 
London punk clubs. (Drummer) Jimmy- 
Joe Deadmember and I in partikular got 
inta thu Sex Pistols and thu Dead Kennedys.
We kame ta America and foun’ out 
night at a bam party that you can 
dance just as good to Waylon Jennings and 
Barbara Mandrell.”
There are traces of both influences in their 
music. Their debut album, “Terrorist Wed­
ding”, includes two very promising country- 
/hardcore tunes, “My Woman is an Ewe” 
and “Lady Loves her Pitchfork.” More in a 
country new wave vein is “Voulez-vous 
coucher avec mon Cheval?”, and rodeo fans 
will be bringing down the stands to the 
anthem, “Too Drunk to Buck.”
“We just plug in the geetars and play,”
cony I’m going to SCREAM! And anyway, 
no-one like Modem Art. Okay, theater. 
Well, we can’t say anything about the 
Drama Department, all our friends would 
kill us. so here’s the news about Sc-- no, we 
can’t say anything about them either, all 
OUR OTHER friends would kill us. So 
here’s the newss about all the other Theaters 
in Pittsburgh. No, no, I can’t do that, I’d 
never get a job in Pittsburgh. When I gradu­
ate. Well, go see Plays. Even though they’re 
a dying art form too. Okay, movies. There
are movies all over the @#!?xx! place! ty 
can’t review them all! Who do you think J 
are??
Look we just can’t do it anymore. There' 
ballet! We have to cover ballet too! Andh0ll 
about Country Music? Do you know hou 
many things come under entertainment 
NEITHER DO I! THERE’S TC 
MANY!!! FORGET IS, ENTERTAflJ 
YOURSELVES!!! WE’LL JUST 
CONCERT REVIEWS, LIKE W| 
ALWAYS DO!!! .
photo by A. Hitch
rides (JWith Spring Carnival around the comer, James Stewert tests one of the newer 
the Midway.
explains lead guitarist Johnny-John Pistol­
whip. “Don’t matter if they’s tuned. D’au- 
dience don’t know thu diffrence, and shoot, 
neither do we.”
“Terrorist Wedding” comes with an; 
line — style sickness bag — save it, you| 
need it.
The new studentcraze this yean Stopping alcoholic parties.
photos courtesy FBI
Here is another new student craze. After a student has barred the way to 
an alcoholic party, fellow students get together with local townspeople 
and rebuke the offending student.

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1984—The Natrat— Page 5 
y&cy&c w w w w www « ymBmmymcymc )»owrw w w m wwaiK ww wmwww *>
Iiberace and the Destroyers will be appearing at The Century 
this Friday at 7:30.
No experience 
necessary.
(Whoever has it, anyway?)
Writers: 
Monday 7:30 
Sunday all day 
Production: 
Wednesday 7:30 
Sunday all day, 
all night, Monday 
morning, afternoon. . .
• HYMIES
: FOR
: JACKSON• Funded by your
• Religious Activities Fee
IT'S NOT TOO LATE!
It's never too late to join The Natrat staff, because none of us are qualified, anyway. Come to Skibo 50:
photo by John Still walled
~ The first film from Walt Disney’s new X-rated film company is Splish, the story of a 
® continued on page 10
"Blame it on Ri
By NAME WITHHELD UPON 
REQUEST
Tartan Editor in Chief 
A new smash hit movie has hit campus. 
Blame It On Ric is attracting all the biggest 
critics at CMU. Those who like the film 
point out that the movice uses some revolu­
tionary concepts in the art of 
cinema.
Unfortunately, those who 
have been in “the business” 
longer than the makers of Blame It on Ric 
complain that some issues the movie exam­
ines are not appropriate for cinema. The 
critics claim that since the issues have never 
been examined in “the biz” before, compli­
cated issues may not be handled well. 
Another critic says simply “It just isn’t 
done.”
The makers of the film refute such claims,
saying any issue shoul 
dealt with in the best 
director admits that in examining pre­
viously untouched ground, mistakes are 
bound to be made. However he points out 
that the risks of such mistakes are far out­
weighed by what might be gained.
Other critics of Blame It on Ric point out 
the non-traditional format. It is their feat 
that getting to the point of a movie too soon 
might be a mistake. The really intelligent 
reviewers realize that if there really is no 
point to particular movie, the new format 
will make that obvious. The director 
responded to such wisdom saying, “I realize 
the risk, but I hope that no movie will ever 
be done in the future that has no point.”
Hun B¿iuoReb *Bmn .Bb .liuunLk ¿po* 
Rnq¿nbi# r¿i lf yo¿ *RnBLLy *nnk io k*o. .uo 
.Roin li# BLBmn Ii o* Rlc.
Sylvester Bone and Polly Warton star in Switch, the story of two transexual 
country singers.
The Raybeats is cornin’, featuring their new lead singer.photo courtesy the Islam Grotto

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Natrat—April 1, 1984
UCC 0OILDXN6 SOCKSprimarily concern ourselves with the needs Announce
ments.
Another delay has beset the already much 
delayed, little expected, problem-plagued, 
ugly-looking, new computer building 
located behind Flashcube Warner. It was 
found that early this morning, the left front 
comer of the building had sunk into the 
ground to the depth of two floors. Construe - 
don supervisors told Hun hBiRBi “there were 
rumors earlier this semester that the build­
ing was NOT sinking; well, it is.”
The impact of this development has not 
yet been fully determined. Because the 
Xerox 9700 has rolled out the loading dock 
doors and was last seen travelling north on 
179, output will be backlogged several 
hours. And, although the UCC staff assures 
that the lava flow has ceased for the 
moment, they have released the following 
schedule:
TOPS-A Will continue to bill you 
for tuition
TOPS-B 
three putts)
TOPS-C 
fishing)
TOPS-D Cannot be found, possi­
bility it has slid around the comer to the 
Apple store
TOPS-E Herpes Simplex output
lost
TOPS-F Will be down for rest of 
the week for preventive maintenance and 
cleaning out the mud
The UCC regrets all incoveniences.
In a related issue, the Skibo Student Cen­
Down to one drive (and 
No DECnet (gone
ter has slid onto the tennis courts. Kiltie 
employee “Linda” commented: “It was 
really incredible; one moment I was bossing 
around Steve, like I always do, the next 
moment all hell came loose, and we were 
right on top of a couple of tennis players...
Tennis will now be played in the Tartan 
Grill, and the Tartan Grill will be relocated 
to the video game room and the video game 
room has been abolished since they never 
really get any good, new games anyway. As a 
result, plans for the faculty club have fallen 
through, and sewer pipes will now have 
natural drainage onto the grass.
Hun foLLo.l*o lb B inxi of iun l*iRok¿cilo* 
iuBi CMU tRnblkn*i RlcuBRk CyRBi knLl­
vnRnk io B rBLLRoom cRo.k pRloR io tRnblkn*i 
EBiB*kR¿*db bpnncu io iun cBmp¿b. Hun 
FRn*cu pRnblkn*i .Bb bo lmpRnbbnk ry iun 
CMU cBmp¿b B*k lib Bkml*lbiRBioRb iuBi un 
uBb l*vlink tRnblkn*i CyRBi io comn io 
FRB*cn B*k BkkRnbb iun 98iu A**¿BL BBknRb 
Co*vn*ilo* o* “Hun Eco*omlc ImpBci o* 
ImpoRink FRn*cu BRnBk l* AmnRlcB”. 
“President Eatandrun members of the press, 
distinguished guests, honored friends, 
members of the administration and faculty, 
and...uh, students?... Yes, there are definitely 
students here. I see one...two...yes, students...
“I am honored to present to you the Presi­
dent of France. We both being Presidents, I 
feel we share a special common bond that 
goes beyond our tide.
“In our capacities as presidents, we must
primarily concern ourselves with the needs 
of our people. Here at CMU, we proudly 
boast of our wonderful and active student 
life. This very building, Skibo, is dedicated 
to this idea of student welfare. Need the 
students ask “Where shall we eat?” Never! 
We make the selection for them; we tell 
them when to be on food contracts, and are 
continuously restricting both access to facili­
ties and service hours in order to make their 
choice easier.
“And, of course, our policies are undoubt­
edly in the best interest of those who attend 
these ivy halls. For their own protection, we 
have strictly enforced our alcohol policy, 
and are considering a ‘dry rush’ next year.
“We are especially proud of our Student 
Government, which so well mocks the 
democratic principles established by our 
forefathers. Every week they make an explo­
ration into hazy and controversial areas of 
law and justice. This year they have been 
particularly clever, removing members who 
have committed no crime! And indeed their 
exploits into the issues both great and petty 
have been examined by the press; I feel they 
are developing a reputation long deserved 
by their distinguished members.
“I certainly hope our French friends 
depart with a certain feeling of how we, such 
a technically enlightened and front mnning 
school, manage to make such a big name for 
ourselves. And, I am sure, they will take 
these lessons to heart, and surely will know 
what to do with them when they return 
home.”
Wanted: For a soon to be formed government I 
committee. We need women, Jews, crippi^l 
blacks, and a new Secretary of Inferior. Wattd 
you think about that?
Attention: If you don’t wish to lose another!
professor, put $50,000 in a brown paperba I 
under the tree by the fence on Wednesday at 11 oo| 
p.m.
If you lost a plaid scarf (mostly blue) in DH22lol
on February 30, then Finders keepers, l0Sf 
weepers! Nyahh!
Have you any complaints about anything ac 
demic at CMU? Well tough! You could haw 
gone to Stanford or MIT, but you were dun 
enough to go here, so quit bothering us!
Abortion: Loving, well-educated, financ 
secure mad scientist desires white, newborn, t 
fetuses for experiments. All expenses paid. IUf 
gal. Confidential. Call us collect at (123) 
7890.
Is it true that you can buy jeeps for $2.54 throu 
the U.S. Government? Probably not, but if p 
were enough of a sucker to believe that, you arc J 
hot prospect for our product line. We have t 
wonderful bridge in Brooklyn, for example. 
Call (212) 936-3636.
The College of Humanities and Social!
announces a banqyet in honor of their public! 
.spirited student, Gorpheus Allison. Beer willh 
served. For information, call 922-7700.
In 1983, following a computer crash in Wean Hall 5419 an infant child 
became part of a family of troublemakers who raised and protected him.
As he grew, he learned the laws of the silicon chip and disc space and 
eventually claimed the title, Lord of the EDUS.
Yet, a semester later went he went to civilized California, he would remain 
uncertain as to which laws to obey .. . those of a 15 year old or those of Phil 
Budweiser’s.
Now, the director of “Gorphy 8c Queen Elizabeth Baby” captures this epic 
adventure of a man caught between two different worlds.
‘Lord of the EDUSTERMINAL STROKE-The Legend of-HONDA
A RIVA—RIVA film starring JEFF YAMAHA • PHIL BUDWEISER and introducing ASPEN BRALESS, DHAHUED APPLESCUM, 
and HEAD McCHICKEN •••Produced by RAT MUDROW**Music by INSANE “WARD’-T and JERRY GOOGOO GAY***Screen- 
play by RUDOLF BONG***Technical Advisor KID “CHOW”-MEIN#**Public Correspondent TRACER PEYOTE
• J. B. TRODOLON (Who knows)

---------------------------------------------------

The Armed Forces
The CMU Departments of Drama
B*k
Electrical and Computer Engineering
tRnbn*i
Their joint-effort production ofMacLisp
¡COURAGE:
They're a great way to start!
Few organizations can offer you on-the-job training that you get with today's Army, 
slavy. Air Force, and Marines. We excel in the training that makes young boys into real 
nen. For example:
SURVIVAL: Learn how to stay alive after we abandon you in Southeast Asia. Just
because you're MIA doesn't mean we still think you're alive. Learn 
POW camp survival techniques, Congressional denial, public apathy.
You'll quickly discover how to face up to those disfiguring diseases that 
you and your children pick up from Agent Orange, Dioxin, and Nuclear 
Radiation. We'll show you how to stand tall and proud while your 
Armed Forces commanders lie to Congressional committees and deny 
you health benefits. After all, you've earned it.
.EADERSHIP: Find out how to duck responsibility and pass the buck. Learn howto let 
others (even the President!) take the blame for your oversigts that cost 
your subordinates their lives. Take our advanced course, Cover-Up 101, 
and learn how to classify non-military documents that might ruin your 
career. You've worked hard for it — why blow it now?
[ideed, the Armed Forces will teach you everything you need to know to survive in this 
han's world. So sign up now! Aim high—Take Responsibility—The Few, The Proud—It's
i great place to start.
The story of a man who must decide whether 
it is better to die... or write a compiler.
defungo be 
or not to be, 
that ith the
quethtion)
'Brilliantly architectured."
-BYTE MAGAZINE
"Well within the parameters of great acting. An array of talent!"
-POPULAR ELECTRONICS
'Holy Macro! Certainly a chip off the old Shakespeare block ..."
—THE NATRAT
Bit parts still available
You and a guest are cordially invited to 
a screening of...ATROPHY
ATROPHY
ATROPHY
a non-student run 
inconvenience store
(Iieb iun nBblnbi .By io iRB*bfnR rLBmn... ¦)
41 RODENT
Condiments Manager
“41 R odent” is UDS’ name for a student who has leaned to operate 
sophisticated culinary equipment. From fondling old food to dirty dishes, 
you can choose over 11 career training areas.
UDS
Not just a job . 
It’s tuition
• •
Featuring:
— food - soda - candy
— inflated prices
— sleeping clerks
— no music
— no check cashing
— no change
and
— large mirrors
HOURS: Whenever someone shows up

---------------------------------------------------

a need
Mawlers sign CMU QB for $43 million
By IWANT MONEY
Natrat Bedroom Sports Editor
The Steel City Mawlers announced today 
the signing of quarterback David Zito of 
Camegie-Mellon University. Zito, who led 
the Tartans to the number two ranking in 
Division III last year, was signed for two 
years at 500,000 dollars a year, plus $42 mil­
lion in deferred payments over the next 65 
years.
The Mawlers, in signing Zito, have 
broken the USFL rule (United States Financial 
Losers) for signing underclassmen. Zito has 
one year of college remaining, but he has 
decided to finish during the offseason. 
When asked about the underclassmen rule,
a Mawler spokesman said,------The Admi­
rals broke the rule with Hershey Stroller, the 
Streakers with Marcus Puree, and now the 
Mawlers with Dave Zito.”
Although Zito was a platooned QB in the 
NCAA’s (Nude and Crude Amateur Ath­
letes) Division III, the Mawlers think highly 
of Zito, who had the highest efficiency rate 
of all PAC (Pathetic Athletic Conference) 
QBs last year. Zito running the option with 
Mike Roquier should be impressive.
When asked what he would do with the 
money, Zito said “after about 20 years of 
payments, I should be able to pay my back 
costs to CMU.”
Nuclear war pending
continued from page 5
beau til ul mermaid found nude in New
York Caty by a sex-starved salesman.
More stupid 
PR picks
By SEWIL CHRLS-ON-TOP-HER
Natrat New Frat Man
After Jeff screwed up the Super Bowl and 
I, of course, picked it right on the nose, I will 
now make my picks for 1984. These are 
GUARANTEED! Get out your wallet. 
CMU tuition will not go down.
In a battle erf 5:00 sitcoms, Taxi will defeat 
MASH, because we’ve all seen all the MASH 
episodes.
Zeta Beta Tau will not win buggy.
The Baltimore Colts will not win the 
Super Bowl, although the Indianapolis 
team might.
ATO will beat Theta-Xi in the opening 
game of IM softball, 8-0. Rob Fleischman, 
Dan Burgundy and Nick Liston will all hit 
home runs, and Chris Lewis will make a 
good play at third base.
CMU will not go to the NCAA final four 
in Seattle. Or in Des Moines, or in Duluth.
Michael Jackson will take off his glasses 
and his toupee, while he and Boy George 
combine on a record called “I’ll Beat It For 
YA.”Sean Quinn writes the IM report
People played games this week.
Headline. . .Pat Schmitt
By MEASLY BLUNDER
Natrat Hockey Expert?
Edmonton Greaser coach Glen Slather 
announced today he has acquired Soviet 
Red Army goaltender Vladislav Trymyact 
straight exchange for star centre Wayne 
Greedsky.
“Even without Wayne, we’ve got plenty 
fire power,” said Slather. “I like a bal- 
scoring attack-wings, centres, defence- 
men. What we need is a man who can hold 
the goal while everybody’s up ice.”
“It’ll be a windfall,” smiled Greedsky, just 
off die phone with his agent. “In the Soviet 
Union there is a whole new market for jeans 
and a new line of hockey equipment.” 
Trymyact, however, was not so pleased. 
“The taxes are horrible. The food is horri­
ble. The weather is like Siberia. What are 
they doing, trading me or exiling me? I’m 
far too good for that”
Red Army Coach Victor Workemhard 
was infuriated by the press release. “Slather’s 
theory of hockey is ridiculous. In fact, North 
American hotkey in general is farcical. And 
Greedsky is a capitalist pig.” When asked to 
corroborate the trade statement, he replied, 
“I don’t know what they’re talking about. 
Vladislav is going no where.”
MM
photo by A. Spy
Natrat centerpiece Richard Neffski, under investigation by a federal agency for trying l 
shave points in basketball games, is caught red-handed tryig to block a shot by teammatt 
Duane Rate. Neffski, also thought to be a Russian spy, was not available for comment HeJ 
was in a meeting with Soviet premier Cherrychunko.
phoco by Horn
Mr. Tom Ribus, shown here with whistk, is coming to look for his daughter Desiree (you remember her, F.L.). Ribus figures this i 
a place to look as any.

---------------------------------------------------

rfbe FIKetJCH’Vfis
WAIT1 I 
CAW’T GfT 
IMTo THf
rrt(*0 fftAflf,
HEY, WYA TWPO
T THINK IT’S LOCKfcDSo ANYWAy x WAS 
TAtKtNC» To THIS
&IM ....
APTAIN BROCKAW AND HEX THE WONDER NUMBERBY MON VALLEY
3NMt* THE PtACEKC*(T|Office...., IHEY, APttl FOOLS, HEX ?! 7u*r 
Kl*»w\ m AT IBM, *HTM A RfAl7oe?i? ®e se*»*!:tiî*AT*e.
HEY, WHAT PO You THINK, HEX f DEC, HEWLETT- PACKARD, rSM - I WANNA BUILD P.C.*! IT’S d BRAVE NEW Olfr/TAL WO*lD
CAPTAIN BROCKW ! WHAT 5 THH WHERE ARE TOU Ä-OfNG- *!!
efu nguougb 
iFFICE > HEX, ToouIN uKXf DW ,fu C L-CR DrSA MKuX
1^ REAL COMPANY.MY MOTTO <5 :
1000 OR LESS - 
tfw'KE WAST7M& AfY
TIME !!
FOfttfc# LEAKftS AllwAYS 
DID IMPRESS YOU, DIOK T 
THEY?!' /A
Roi h Bluter.By vBi/b MSSMlf à#ù dong b¿ yn*
GBB# go MflfS S6fM 
Ho FACE SlOnv/AÿSe 1 v/okrci ia/mat
Look uk* R¿n
—¦_____ tKoilH...
W*1/ IVA6 T//r<*«
at r/tf' Tibbie
ffAMer*
v/Hxr?
*j iGrp tN-BETWEEN
. this week write goi*g 
To 00 ^OMtTHlMÔ A 
LITTLE 01ŸHR.CNT...
Tms TiKC , You*«* 6oiiog 
To tell «§ A 30K£.
Finies.

---------------------------------------------------

OurFifth
InsignificantYear
Editor: Meryl Lynchpearcefennernsmith
ASSistant: Lori Snore
Design Editors : Beebi Barxg’er, Jill Garlick, Mutton Jeff
Fiction: Sushi Bossy
Poetry: Tini Swartzenegger
Contributting Editors : D. Void, Gram McCasualty
Staff: Rod Polenski , John Badbich, Peachie Keen, Dandy Lion
Designers : Stardard Typewriter Fan Club
Editor irvAbsentia: Lauren Schneider
And our Guest Designer : Petit Banality
Collected Works
Hog Harley, David’s 
jealous of the rabbit, 
of how quickly he could wash 
on a local newscast, in a voice louder 
than a chorus of children singing about Dairy Queen 
with rippling black hair, and his biceps bobbed 
in barefeet, to recall that current’s 
thousand pianos, pools, and good beds.
Down my street to the temple door, 
ripe rows of broccoli 
been laughin’ six blocks now — 
people from the Twilight Zone who 
killed my brother’s catfish and tried to flush it 
winced in sympathy as the clubs came whistling down.
(A thrashing sound in back of 
the boy and his alligator eyes.)
His grip drips; the ooze of their children 
kisses your lips, slit with cigarettes.
Groovy got busted; no more candy store — 
all kinds of alarming rumuors.
Let’s do a line 
one grain at a time 
until it bleeds.
I was going to ask her what falafel was 
but the least I could do was put up with a little swing.
(At least the clams were very good.)
A “Submissive” Person
St°pping
iunbn Qre I ^ ^
5 kovi*# ?- ! . SUreV k**¿.
Mr
fSmmm mtd Wr» tmk mm Ar kfhl <m?,
"f *ftt
WnV. ft c^eer
iSflmber ft.r,Me shake I
My only other* 40
« breath
ÄTÜ53Ä-Ä •And miles to go without being seer^And miles to go without being seen.
V>v
tafyaurpun.
