«^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52—NUMBER 18 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 1959
IM Night — March 20
intramural Basketball 
To Highlight Evening
‘Spring Steals’ 
Will Be 1959 
Carnival Theme
“Spring Steals” was announced 
today as the official theme of 
Tech’s 1959 Spring Carnival, 
which is scheduled for May 1, 2, 
and 3.
This year’s theme, chosen from 
numerous suggestions, has been 
designed to provide booth contest 
entrants with the opportunity for 
for developing stories of great 
robberies throughout history.
Carnival Booths
There will be a meeting of re­
presentatives from all groups 
planning to build a booth on the 
Spring Carnval midway tomor­
row, Thursday, March 19, at 
4:30 p.m. at the Delta Upsilon 
House.
By George Paris and Chuck Vodvarka
Tech’s fourth annual intramural night will be held this 
Friday evening, March 20, at the Skibo Gym. This year’s IM 
Night is expected to be the best ever as IM Director Mr. 
ii^yer and the intramural board have planned a program 
very different from previous IM nights.
Since previous IM nights have^ 
been carried on at a slow pace, 
the Board plans to speed this one 
up and give the public action all 
evening long.
The program will begin at 7:00 
p.m. sharp with the consolation 
basketball game taking place be­
tween the third and fourth placeS
ms. This game will help decide 
nts for the all-important intra­
mural trophy.
Between games, the intramural 
ping-pong championship games 
will be held. The winner should 
be decided between among Wal- 
lerstein, Schauer, Kuhn, and 
Tomich.
The 1959 IM basketball cham­
pionship game will start around 
8:30 p.m. and should be between 
t^> of the following: Englishmen, 
iffcons, Kappa Sigma, Alpha Tau 
Omega, and the Met Grads, with 
two of these teams also playing in 
the consolation game.
Trophies for winners through­
out the 1958-59 season will be 
awarded between games and at 
halftimes by Mr. Boyer, and 
Frank Spriggs, Intramural Board 
President. Bronze plaques will 
also be awarded to the various 
hag lie champions.
^hose teams getting trophies in­
clude: Met Grads—football, SAE 
—volleyball and co rec volleyball,
Obelisks—bowling, Englishmen— 
foul shooting, ATO and Sigma Nu 
—wrestling, Beta Sigma Rho— 
water polo, Obelisks—ping-pong, 
and Joe Martin—call pool cham­
pion.
All Tech students (female and 
male) are invited to attend with 
no admission charged, and free 
iVreshments to be served through­
out the evening.
Scotch ’n Soda 
Announces Cast 
For 1959 Show
The- Scotch and Soda Club has 
recently announced the cast for 
this year’s production, “Set ’Em 
1^' Again,” which opens Wed­
nesday, April 29.
The principle characters are:
Gretchen Friebertshauser, Ellen 
Travolta, Janet Epstein, Becky 
Conrad, Jim Parker, Ed Frederk- 
son, Steve Harr, Don Antasio, Ar- 
nie Lasloye, Phil Rie, and Bill 
Reinfeld. Becky Conrad will do 
a specialty number.
Singing Chorus
Singing chorus: Chuck Spring- 
H|L‘ Bill Baird, Keith Springer,
John Olmstead, Tim Ede, Ray 
Smith, Wendy Steinberg, Pat 
Sands, Jan Notopoulos, Max Ma- 
label, Claire Rosenzwcig, and Car­
rie Neergaard.
Dancers: Larry Berger, George 
Monk, Lee Ligo, Roger Morgan,
Dolph Marche, Denny Getsie,
Mickey Coburn, Nancy Sloan, Ann 
Kincheloe, and Verna Robinson.
The official definition of the 
Carnival theme has been stated 
as: “the presentation of tales
about great robberies, steals, or 
famous stealers in fantasy, fiction, 
[continued on page 6]
Military Ball 
This Saturday
The crowning of the queen will 
be the highlight of the Military 
Ball which will be held in the 
Webster Hall Hotel this Saturday 
evening. The five finalists will be 
honorary* officers for this dance 
which is sponsored annually by 
Scabbard and Blade.
The winner of the election for 
queen, which was held yesterday, 
will be crowned as part of the 
program for the dance. She and 
the four runner-ups will be es­
corted beneath the uplifted sabers 
of the honor guard and presented 
to the regiment of cadets.
Open to All 
Although this is a Military Ball, 
“civilians” are welcomed and en­
couraged to come. The dance is 
definitely formal, but if any man 
comes in a dark suit he will not 
be turned away.
Tickets for the dance may be 
purchased any day this week in 
Skibo from 11:30 to 1:30, and at 
the door. They may also be pur­
chased from any member of Scab­
bard and Blade.
Displays
Another feature of the dance 
will be a weapons display in the 
second ball room. The flags of all 
the NATO countries will be on 
display. The queen will be wear­
ing a brand new crown, and the 
music for dancing will be pro­
vided by Bill Leroy and his or­
chestra.
The dance promises to be one 
of the most successful in years, 
and Scabbard and Blade hope that 
it will be attended by as many as 
possible.
Love’s Labour’s Lost 
To. Begin March 21
By Bill Pence
One of William Shakespeare’s earliest comedies, “Love’s 
Labour’s Lost,” will be presented at 8:15 from March 21 
through 25 and April 2 through April 13, under the direction 
of Mr. Henry Boettcher in the Fine Arts Theatre.
One of Shakespeare’s rarely*
produced plays, “Love’s Labour’s 
Lost,” has recently gained new 
popularity over the world. In the 
last thirty years, it has probably 
been produced more times than 
in the preceding century.
Lyric Play
“Love’s Labour’s Lost,” a lyric 
play, concerns the small kingdom 
of Navarre, in which King Ferdi­
nand has set forth a proclamation 
resolving to make his domain a 
“little academe.” The kingdom is 
bound by oath to spend three solid 
years in studying, fasting, sleeping 
only three hours a night, and 
above all, speaking to no women.
Shortly after, the king is paid 
a diplomatic visit by the Princess 
of France. He finds himself in 
love with her and his court in 
love with the Princess’ ladies in 
waiting. Considering now the ab­
surdity and irony of the king’s 
original proclamation, the trouble 
begins, as Shakespeare tells us 
which is most important to Na­
varre: love or intellect.
Youthful Theme
Written by a young Shake­
speare, “Love’s Labour’s Lost” is 
youthful in both theme and char­
acter. A perfect play for Tech’s 
spring production, Shakespeare 
might well have dedicated this 
comedy to anyone from young 
lovers to chemistry majors.
Evidently, at this time, Mr. 
Shakespeare believed, that labor 
in love is lost and futile. I tip 
my hat to him for reminding us 
collegians at a time of year when 
we’d be likely to overlook it. 
Tickets are still available in the 
drama department office in Fine 
Arts.
New Union
Student Center Will 
Be the Focal Point
By Michael Brunt
According to the recently approved final plans for Tech’s 
new union, the proposed student activities center will con­
sist of a two-story structure facing Fine Arts.
It will be built in such a way as to provide for further 
expansion. The building will be located, at the nearest point,
• sixty feet away from the present 
nn O tennis courts. Behind the centerSCt l o Sponsor 
Easter Assembly 
Next Tuesday
A special Easter worship serv 
ice sponsored by the inter-de
there will be a temporary parking 
lot for 300 cars.
Publications 
In the northwest corner of the 
center there will be the publica­
tion offices for the Scot, Technical, 
Tartan, and Thistle. Radio facili-
nominational Student Christian ! ^es f°r WRCT and darkrooms for 
Federation will highlight the publications, as well as for
Tuesday, March 24 assembly pro- student use will be provided in 
gram at 11:30 in the Fine Arts ^his sector also. These groups 
theatre. i were consulted as to how they
The Reverend Donald F. Gru- : wanted their rooms built, the 
enberg, who will speak at the facilities they needed, and space 
service, has chosen the theme was allotted according to individ- 
“Easter According to the Scrip- ua* specifications, 
t u r e s.” Currently conducting Along this wing also are situ- 
weekly student seminars at Tech, ated four club rooms and thrcommittee rooms. One of the com- 
Lutheran ! mittee rooms is connected with 
I the suite of rooms delegated to
Reverend Gruenberg is the min­
ister of the Bethel 
Church.
Also included on the program various religious organizatio 
is Robertson’s “All in the April I with additional room if exceptio: 
Evening,” which will be sung by | a^r large mettings are planned, 
the Cameron Choir. Familiar 
Easter hymns will be sung by 
everyone.
Placement Bureau
The Placement Bureau will be 
located in the northeast corner o
Students assisting in the serv- the center. This sector will als 
ice will be David Hill, Charles house Student Congress and othet 
Harbison, and organist jCassie student organizations. Tech has
Niedzialek.
Write Contest 
Deadline Near
By Leila Moore
i The April 1 deadline for the 
WRITE contest is fast approach­
ing, and Pi Delta Epsilon sincere­
ly urges all interested students 
to polish their entries before that 
date.
WRITE offers limitless oppor­
tunities for exercising one’s imag­
ination and writing abilities. A 
student might, for example, pho­
tograph activities and personali­
ties on campus to enter as a 
photo essay for the Thistle.
Hidden Talents
Perhaps a person’s hidden -tal­
ents lie in subtle or sarcastic hu­
mor. Such an entry is not only 
acceptable but is also welcomed 
by the Scot. One might also write 
a half-hour radio script based 
on a dramatized play or a humor­
ous incident for a WRCT entry.
WRITE provides experience in 
writing which might serve as an 
introduction to an interesting 
pastime, or even a career. The 
prize of $25, although not a for­
tune, does provide a substantial 
addition to one’s pocketbook.
Contest Rules
Specific and general rules for 
WRITE can be obtained in the 
dean of students’ office. Entries 
may be turned in to Melissa Iv- 
kovich, 7B, More wood Gardens, 
with the name of the publication 
for which it is intended clearly 
marked.
This is the second year for the 
WRITE contest, and Pi Delta Ep­
silon will continue to sponsor it 
each year.
provided the students with a room 
specifically for poster making.
[cojitinued on page 2]
Dr. John \\ arner 
Now In Pakistan 
As A Consultant
Dr. John C. Warner is in Paki­
stan serving as a consultant to the 
newly formed Commission of Na­
tional Education.
Pakistan’s President, Major 
General Iskander Mirza, set up 
the commission last August to 
create a national educational pol­
icy for the new country. The invi­
tation to Dr. Warner was extend­
ed by Mr. S. M. S. Sharif, educa­
tion secretary of West Pakistan 
and secretary of the commission.
The commission also invited 
Herman Wells, president of Indi­
ana University and Mr. Keith 
Murray, chairman of the British 
University grants commission. 
The Ford Foundation is sponsor­
ing Dr. Warner’s visit. He wll 
return to Pittsburgh on April 12.
Selective Service
Applications for the April 
30, 1959 administration of the 
College Qualification Test are 
now available at Selective 
Service System local boards 
throughout the country.
Eligible students who in­
tend to take this test should 
apply at once to the nearest 
selective service local board 
for an application and a bul­
letin of information. The lo­
cal selective service board is 
located at 933 Penn Avenue, 
downtown Pittsburgh.
#

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TART AN—Wednesday, March 18, 1959
NEEDED
CJLecjictte
C^ufturaf
C^afendar
By Barb Jones
On March 20 and 22, the Pitts­
burgh Symphony Orchestra’s pro­
gram will feature the guest pian­
ist, Rudolf Serkin, and will be the 
third concert of the Beethoven 
cycle. The program will include: 
Overture to “Coriolanus,” Piano 
Concerto No. 4 in G Major, and 
Symphony No. 6 in F Major 
(“Pastoral”).
The Carnegie College of Fine 
Arts music department is spon­
soring a faculty recital of cham-. 
ber music on March 22 at 8:30 
p.m. The recital includes: Goesta 
Andreasson, violin; Eugene Eich­
er, cello; Eugene Phillips, viola; 
and Nelson Whitaker, pianist. The 
program will include Beethoven’s 
variations of “Ich bin der Schnei­
den Kakadu,” Op. 121a; Mozart’s 
Divertimento in E Flat Major, K 
564; Schumann’s Quartet in E 
Flat Major, Op. 47. The perform­
ance will be held in the GSIA 
auditorium.
Opera
Mozart’s “Cosi Fan Tutti” will 
be at the Syria Mosque Thurs-
day, March 19, and Saturd^f 
March 21, at 8:30 p.m. The stu­
dent tickets can be obtained in 
the office of the dean of fine arts, 
and the prices of these tickets 
range from $ .50 to $2.60.
Drama
Shapespeare’s “Love’s Labour’s 
Lost” will be presented by the 
CIT drama department from 
March 21-25, and April 2-i$. 
Tickets may be obtained now for 
this production in the fine arts 
office.
“Mary Stuart” will be playing 
at the Playhouse Craft Avenue 
Theater until March 21.
Art
The department of painting, de­
sign, ana sculpture is presenting 
three California painters in t’rn 
Hewlett Gallery until March 20.
The 49th annual exhibit at the 
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh 
are showing 574 works in their 
showing at the Carnegie Insti­
tute. The gallery will be open to 
the public from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Friday and Saturday, on Thurs­
day from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. and 
from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Sundays.
The annual group show by tMlt 
Abstract Group of Pittsburgh 
will be on exhibit at the Arts and 
Crafts Center until March 31.
As low as $774 from New York ... 40 days
Now Pan Am is offering a fabulous series of special student 
tours that feature the new Boeing 707 Jet Clippers*— 
world’s fastest airliners—between New York and Europe. 
No extra fare for the extra speed and comfort.
Of all the areas of the world, Europe is most suited to 
the type of unusual, adventurous travel you want. There 
are literally dozens of tours for you to choose from, many 
offering academic credits. And what’s more, there’s 
plenty of free time left for you to roam about on your own.
From Midwest and West Coast Cities, other direct 
Pan Am services are available on radar-equipped, Douglas- 
built “Super-7” Clippers.
Call your Travel Agent, Pan American, or send in the 
coupon below for full information. .Trade-u»*, CAAR NRER GIIR o*.
Send to:
George Gardner, Educational Director 
Pan American, Box 1908, N. Y. 17, N. Y.
Please send free Pan Am Holiday #405 book­let on Special Student Tours to Europe.
Name_
Str*-et_
1---------------------------------WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE-------------------------------J
New Center—
[Continued from page 1]
The commuter often has reason 
to stay on campus for activities 
other than classes. For this reason 
quiet rooms are being included in 
the new center for the commuters 
which they can use for cleaning 
up or for resting.
Dining Facilities
The forward half of the first 
floor is designated for the student 
cafeteria and staff dining room. A 
new feature added to the cafe­
teria to facilitate the removal of 
dirty dishes is a conveyer belt 
system to carry the dishes to the 
washing area. The new dining 
area will seat approximately 500 
students. The staff cafe will be 
used by the help in the early af-
CoeJ Of JL Weei
ternoon leaving it open to student 
groups in the late afternoon and 
evening.
In the northwest wing of the 
second floor a ballroom will be 
built for the school dances. An 
eight by twenty-four foot perma­
nent stage will be built for stage 
acts or the dance bands. If more 
stage area is needed, it will be 
supplied by means of a retract­
able stage that will fit under the 
permanent one. On two sides of 
the ballroom there will be a 
lounge area, and at the rear of 
the ballrdom facilities for a food 
service will be present.
At the far northeast corner of 
the center a smaller all-purpose 
room will be able to accommodate 
smaller dances and activities. Ad­
joining the ballroom and all-pur­
pose room will be a party room. 
When exceptionally large dances 
or activities are to be held, these 
three all can be used together and 
a common public address system 
will function for all of them.
Snackateria
At the front of the second floor, 
food services will predominate. 
There will be a student snacka­
teria, a faculty club, a faculty 
lounge, and the president’s dining 
room. Three other private dining 
rooms will be open for use by 
any group. A game room will also 
be present on this floor where 
there will be card tables and table 
tennis.
On the east side of the student 
center there will be an open patio 
with deck chairs and other patio 
facilities.
Mr. Milton Zudek, head type 
director at McCann-Erickson Ad­
vertising Agency in New York, 
will be the fifth speaker in a se­
ries of lectures on graphic design 
at Tech.
The series entitled, “Graphic 
Design Today,” is under the joint 
sponsorship of the School of 
Printing Management and the 
Carnegie College of Fine Arts. It 
was programmed by the Type Di­
rectors Club of New York.
Speech
Mr. Zudek will deliver his ad­
dress “Typographic Problems in 
Advertising,” on Friday, March 
20, at 1:30 p.m. in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion auditorium.
Linly Ray
Freshman Psychology Major—Duquesne
¦ Coed of the Week Contest¦
¦ Entry Blank
¦
J Name .............................................................................
¦
J Address.........................................................................
¦
J Phone .............................................................................
J Submitted by 
¦
Graphic Design 
Series To Feature 
New York Ad-man
WAIiBFROHI NRKTW JUSO
GIRLS!!!!!
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR
SUMMER POSITIONS
?
Applicants are now being considered for the 
1959 camp season. If you organize and teach 
arts and crafts, music, archery, tennis, nature 
study or swimming, or, if you can type and 
take shorthand contact Isabelle Levy at the 
Penn-Sheraton Hotel, AT 1-7100, from Friday 
afternoon, March 27 to Sunday, March 29.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 18, 1859—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
Don Myers analyzes a recorded trouble indication with members of his central office force.
You keep right on “graduating’* in a 
Bell Telephone career. Here’s proof.
Donald L. Myers, B.S. in Civil Engineer­
ing, University of Maryland, ’54, is typi­
cal of many young college graduates in 
the Bell Telephone Companies. Don man­
ages test center operations at the Arling­
ton, Virginia, office of The Chesapeake 
& Potomac Telephone Company. He 
supervises 9 people.
“We maintain equipment and facilities 
records on the 61,000 telephones served 
by this office and are responsible for han­
dling customer trouble reports and dis­
patching repairmen,” Don explains. “But 
one of our most important jobs is locat­
ing potential trouble conditions before 
our customers’ service is affected.
“In my previous assignment I was in 
charge of the group responsible for the 
maintenance of switching equipment at 
suburban McLean, Virginia. This was a
smaller office serving 6000 telephones.’*
Don stepped into these supervisory 
positions after less than 3 years of actual 
telephone experience. (He has sand­
wiched a two-year military hitch into his 
record since joining the company in 
1954.) Previously, while on the Plant 
Engineering staff, he planned circuits be­
tween telephone exchanges and expansion 
of facilities to meet future growth. He 
also studied the highly complicated cir­
cuitry of central office switching equip­
ment and its memory and routing 
functions.
Where does he go from here? It de­
pends mostly on Don. But one thing looks 
sure: continuous growth in the industry 
will create advancement opportunities 
for him and young men like him who 
have what it takes to get ahead.
This is not just the story of Don Myers. •. many college men like 
him are moving aliead in telephone careers. See for yourself 
what your future with the telephone company might be like. 
Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus and 
read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BELL
TELEPHONE
COMPANIES
*01(1 Article Tells 
Tartan Troubles
Wednesday noon finds the 
Administration Hall, and Skibo jammed 
_iously (?) awaiting delivery of the Tartan. 
^arrive a riot ensues as hands reach
grab a copy or three, resulting in4 
casualties to several persons, in­
cluding the delivery boy who is 
usually incapacitated for a week 
(incidentally the circulation staff 
requests more gentle treatment of 
its representatives).
But this weekly fracas is mild 
compared to the gnashing of teeth 
and grunts and snorts heard 
ffcibout the campus when the Tar­
tan fails to appear at the sched­
uled time. As the editorial staff 
slinks over to Administration Hall 
for its weekly meeting held at 
the same hour, trying to ignore 
the castigations of disappointed 
readers, it finds its troubles have 
just begun. Waiting on the steps 
of the Union are hopefuls from 
all organizations of the school 
who wish their announcements, 
invitations, and post-mortems to 
appear in the next issue.
Comes Friday, and the make­
up editor finds himself surround­
ed by 37 neophytes demanding 
column one, page one for their 
two inch story on Professor Liv- 
rewrite’s lecture^ to the Interna­
tional Congress of Amalgamated 
Flag Pole Sitters on “The Rela­
tion Between Church Steeples 
and Flagless Flagpoles” Mean- 
$while 14 other junior editors say 
they are sorry but their stories 
won’t be in ’till midnight and 
meanwhile please excuse them 
while they visit the International, 
attend the matinee, or play touch 
football.
The editor in charge of heads 
walks in after all the head writ­
ing writers have gone home to
corridor of Engineering Hall, 
with students anx- 
When they finally 
forward in an effort to
dinner and demands to know why 
he can’t get any cooperation. 
Meanwhile six people have come 
into the office insisting they be 
permitted to see where the story 
will be placed in the paper and 
when told that “we just don’t 
know yet” they raise a big fuss 
about “it just has to get in” and so 
on until the staff shoves them out 
of the room and down the stairs. 
The great work goes on and the 
hours roll swiftly by.
Late Sunday evening when the 
make-up editor is breathing a 
sigh of relief as he marks down 
the last few words on the sheet in 
front of him, a hatless, coatless, 
and breathless reporter dashes in 
and announces “It’s marvelous! 
Wonderful! Whew!” and is there­
by stunned with “You’ll have to 
change the whole front page. It’s 
the scoop of the week and I re­
fuse to cut an inch.”
A fight then ensues between 
‘Scoop’ and the reporters whose 
articles would have to be moved 
to make room for the new story. 
After the dead and wounded have 
been cleared by the conscientious 
janitor who comments “Please 
don’t leave this place so messy,” 
the harassed make-up editor de­
cides to have two front pages and 
so the Tartan goes to press.
Editor’s Note: This column was 
taken from the Tuesday, Novem­
ber 22, 1939, issue of the Tartan. 
Seeing it made us realize that al­
though times do change students 
are still ivorrying about the same 
problems as those before us.
Foreign Policy
Essav ContestJ
The League of Women Voters 
of Pennsylvania is sponsoring an 
essay contest for undergraduate 
students.
The subject of the essay is 
“What Should Be the Aims of 
Foreign Policy” and first prize is 
an appearance on College News 
Conference, a nationwide radio­
television program produced in 
Washington, D.C.
The winner will interview a 
person prominent in foreign pol­
icy news. Transportation to and 
from Washington and all expenses 
connected with the trip are in­
cluded in the prize award.
Any interested persons should 
get started on their essays imme­
diately as the contest closes 
March 28, 1959. Completed essays 
should be typewritten, double­
spaced, on one side of the paper. 
The student’s name, age, college, 
class, college address, and tele­
phone number should appear on 
the title page.
All essays should be sent to the 
League of Women Voters of Pitts­
burgh, 429 Fort SE \ve., Pitts­
burgh 19, Pa. No entries post­
marked later than noon, March 
31, 1959, will be considered and 
none will be returned. For fur­
ther information call: Mrs. Wil­
liam Benesch MU 2-5817.
fOOKV « A RCGfSrEftCO T»AOE*MA««. COWH9HT Q 1959 TX6 COCA-COLA COMPAMV.
Madison Avenue...
LITTLE MAN ON* CAM PUS
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Yes, up and down ad alley you’ll find the 
smartest account execs call for Cokp during 
important meetings. The cold crisp taste, 
the real refreshment of Coca-Cola 
are just what the client ordered. So up 
periscope and take a look into the 
situation. Ad men of the future!—start 
y&ur training now—climb into a gray flannel 
suit and relax with a Coke!
BE REALLY REFRESHED... HAVE A COKEt 
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola. Company by
QUAKIB STATE COCA-COLA lOTTLWO OO.
•728 Centre Are. Hi. t-TOtl

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, March 18, 1959
Editorial
Meaning of Americanism
The label “American” has been applied many times 
throughout the history of our nation. Our free-enterprise 
economy has been called the cornerstone of the American 
Way of Life. The small farmer has been subsidized to pro­
tect the American way. Organizations such as the American 
Legion and the Daughters of the American Revlution have 
conducted campaigns to rid our schools of “Un-American” 
text books and teachers. The House sub-committee on Un- 
American activities has compiled a list of all “Un-American” 
organizations in the nation.
Certainly all of this effort to preserve and protect “Amer­
icanism” would lead one to believe that the concepts of 
“Americanism” were completely understood by almost all 
citizens. But it would appear that, if such understanding of 
the term exists, it is considerably different from that of the 
framers of the Constitution.
Primary Ingredient
The primary ingredient of Americanism is Freedom 
Freedom to pursue one’s own cultural, social, economic and 
moral inclinations in so far as they do not involve the vio­
lent overthrow of the United States government. This was 
the intention of the nations founders; this is the basis for 
the great success of the American nation today. America is 
great because its people are able to apply their energies and 
ambitions to those causes and ideals which they themselves 
believe to be right.
But many today would place restrictions on that freedom. 
Examine the case of the American Socialist. Many Americans 
today honestly believe that a Socialist orator should not be 
allowed to speak in their city. Many companies today would 
not hire a well known Socialist for fear of being accused by 
patriotic organizations of being “Un-American” or com­
munistic.
Governmental Protection
Even the government has taken it upon itself to “protect” 
the American mind. The post office department has for years 
prevented certain material expressing certain opinion from 
passing through the mails. The department once locked up 
as “obscene, lewd, and lasivious” copies of Aristophane’s 
“Lyistrata,” the Greek satire of how the Peloponnesian Wars 
were ended by the women, who withheld their charms from 
the men until they made peace. During World War I Thor- 
stein Veblen’s “Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revo­
lution” was banned from the mails, as was a small pamphlet 
which urged the raising of war revenue by taxation rather 
than loans.
The right to believe as one pleases and to try to spread 
those beliefs to others is a precious freedom which should be 
carefully guarded. Even the Communist should not be ostra­
cized for either his beliefs or endeavoring to convince others 
of their validity—in so far as he does not propose to put 
them into effect through the use of violence. The government 
has also limited these rights. A young Russian Jew was con­
victed under the espionage act and given a maximum sen­
tence for advocating the withdrawal of American forces from 
Russia during the First World War with Germany. He dis­
tributed a pamphlet which was not directed against the war
[continued on page 5]
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053; 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Co-Editor ............................................................................................................................. Carol Sooby
Co-Editor ................................................................. ................................................. Richard Wiley
Associate Editor ............................................................................................................. David Dull
Business Manager ............................................................. ................. ................... Lee Adelsberg
Nf*s Editor ............................................................................................................. Jan N'otopoulos
Sports Editor .. .*................................................................................................ George Paris
Copy Editor  ............................... ......................................................................... Jerry Sullivan
Assistant News Editor—Jan Notopoulos, Photography Editor—Alan 
Gickler, Assistant Business Manager—Michael D. Balsam, Advertising 
Manager — Miles Hollander, Assistant Advertising Manager — Mark 
Seltzer, Secretary—Rena Siegel, Circulation Manager—Gary Branden- 
burger, Transportation—Gene Rietzke.
News Staff — Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally 
Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Arlene Logioco, Bill 
Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob Npwak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira 
Shapiro, Georgia White, Lois Wolfe.Sports Staff—Dick Hamilton, Mike Beaman, Chuck Vodrarka.
Copy Staff—Frank Baloh, Spence Anderson, Mary Anne Melton, 
Janis Geisler, Roger Fager, Jim Whalen.
Circulation Staff—Jim Phillips, Larry Dominik.
Second cla*« postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Repr«Miit«d for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Amendment On 
Jurisdiction Of 
Supreme Court
The constitution committee 
presented its proposed amend­
ment of Article III, Section 3, of/ 
the Student Congress constitution 
at the student government meet­
ing on March 11. This amend­
ment is concerned with the juris­
diction of Supreme Court. The 
proposed amendment reads:
The Supreme Court shall:
A. Decide as to the constitu- 
tioanlity of acts of the 
other two branches of this 
government in cases of dis­
pute.
B. Hold original jurisdiction 
over all organizations who 
derive their existence from 
recognition by Student 
Congress.
C. Hold jurisdiction for all 
campus organizations and 
students in only those cases 
involving one or more of 
the following:
1. Behavior directly detri­
mental to the reputation of 
Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology.
2. Misconduct at all-s c h o o 1 
events.
3. Any action of misconduct 
internal to the school 
where such jurisdiction 
does not otherwise lie with­
in the realm of any other 
campus court or council.
4. Infractions of the laws of 
student government.
D. Have the power, if it finds 
an organization guilty, to:
1. Revoke the recognition of 
those organizations who de­
rive their existence from 
Student Congress.
2. Suspend the social privil­
eges of the group for a 
time to be specified by the 
Supreme Court.
3. Limit the organization’s 
normal pattern of behavior 
of operation to a degree as 
to be determined by the 
Supreme Court.
4. Fine the organization any 
costs.
E. Have the power, if it finds 
an individual guilty, to:
1. Place the individual on so­
cial probation.
2. Require a probationary 
period of the person from 
any campus activities.
3. Recommend to the school’s 
Committee on Discipline 
that the student be placed 
on Disciplinary probation­
ary suspension.
4. Fine him any costs.
Being a constitutional change, 
the motion was automatically 
tabled.
Six more members of Student 
Congress have lost their vote be-
Some educational institutions, apparently 
in need of students, advertise lush locations 
and an indescribably long list of student con­
veniences. Certainly they are ethically re­
sponsible for meeting these claims. The Uni­
versity of Chicago, on the other hand, stands 
out in sharp contrast by its lack of these con­
veniences such as “adequate campus living 
facilities,” “adequate campus parking,” and 
an “adequate intercollegiate athletic, pro­
gram” without jeopardizing its scholastic 
reputation.
Considering the number of applications 
for admission Carnegie Tech must reject 
each year, the administration has no need to 
advertise student convenience and hence has 
no responsibility in providing them. It 
doesn’t advertise adequate parking. Cer­
tainly if one desires parking facilities there 
are educational institutions elsewhere that 
will provide them, perhaps with a sacrifice 
in the caliber of their faculties. Dining facili­
ties are advertised in the Carnegie Tech Col­
lege catalogues, and temporary accommoda­
tions will be provided after Skibo is torn 
down.
Legalized gambling is a privilege we all 
enjoy—but why direct it at the administra­
tion on subjects for which it is not respon­
sible. Blenheim
(Ì
Educational Icing
Blenheim was amazed to discover a group 
of disgruntled students directing maledic­
tions at the administration for closing one of 
the larger parking lots on campus. This mis­
informed group seems to feel that the ad­
ministration should be saddled with the re­
sponsibility of providing “adequate campus 
parking.” A similarly misdirected group, 
heard muttering and grumbling about the 
forthcoming razing of Skibo, seems to feel 
the administration is responsible for provid­
ing “adequate campus eating facilities.” Ab­
surd! Why should any college administration 
be responsible for anything more than pro­
viding competent instructors and a place to 
hold class meetings? Anything more than 
this is strictly icing on the educational cake.
%
MR\&«TTuiHeR.e s TARN M\&«ui& TAHTe 
uiôRtONfr iA -nte T«H.sT
•>>

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 18, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pare 5
^ Message From the President
Free Society Needs Service Of Professionals
Complexities
In a free society, professional men and women 
have an obligation to serve society in a broader 
sense than merely serving their clients and em­
ployers with technical competence in their fields 
® specialization. Each of us—doctor, lawyer, sci­
entist, engineer, minister, etc.—has the added ob­
ligation to accept full responsibility as a citizen 
of a community, a state, our nation, and the free 
world. In this regard it seems to me that scientists 
and engineers have a special responsibility be­
cause our civilization has depended increasingly 
upon science and its applications in a multiude of 
technologies. As a consequence our public prob- 
flbis, both domestic and international, have stead­
ily increased in complexity and they with increas­
ing frequency contain scientific and technological 
elements. I am convinced that we must depend 
more and more on help from our professional peo­
ple in finding solutions to our 'problems if we are 
to go forward and preserve our free society.
The Big Change
Our situation in America has changed sub- 
ffentially during the past half century and this 
change must be reflected in scientific and tech­
nological education as well as in the obligations 
assumed by professional scientists and engineers 
as practitioneers and as citizens. The last quarter 
of the last century and the first decade of the 
present century was an era of tremendous indus­
trial development in America, accompanied by a 
corresponding development in transportation and 
i^mmunication. Literally hundreds of new enter­
prises were established each year, but always in­
variably they were small industries, short trans­
portation lines, and local communication systems. 
In these relatively small enterprises the technol­
ogy was simple by present-day standards. In this 
period we depended heavily upon Europe for 
new basic science as well as for much of the new 
technology. Industry and commerce wanted, and 
’g^der the circumstances needed, practically-train­
ed young men who could do useful things imme­
diately upon graduation. In this same period so­
cial, economic, and political problems in the 
United States seemed relatively simple. They 
were largely domestic and rarely had difficult 
technical aspects. As we sat comfortably between 
two oceans with friendly Canada to our north and 
usually friendly neighbors to our south, world 
jgoblems seemed remote and of minor import­
ance compared to the economic development of 
our country. It was natural that scientific and 
technological education should be intensely prac­
tical and that little thought should be given to 
the education of the scientist and engineer so that 
he could discharge his responsibilities as a citizen. 
It was still considered that public problems could 
be adequately solved on a basis of tradition, prec­
edent, hunch, opinion, and surmise by politicians 
Ignorant of science and technology and their im­
plications.
Today
Since the first decade of the present century, 
our situation has undergone a drastic change.
(1) Our industrial enterprises are giants operat­
ing on a country-wide or even a world-wide basis. 
They are marvels of complex technology and re­
quire the services of thousands, almost millions of 
TOmpetent, alert, and creative engineers and sci­
entists. Great emphasis must be placed on ef­
ficiency in the use of materials and energy, on the 
continuous development of labor-saving devices so 
that manpower can be multiplied by a steadily in­
creasing factor through the use of energy from 
inanimate sources, on the-use of automatic con­
trols, on quality control and the steady improve­
ment of products, and on the effective integration
technical development and control with man­
agement and administration. In like manner, com­
munication and transportation now operate on a 
continent-wide and world-wide basis. Almost all 
of these large enterprises have developed in- 
service training programs for teaching young 
technical graduates the special methods, techni­
ques and knowledge of the industry.
(2) Modern technology has become so complex 
that scientists and engineers are now faced with 
problems which require a new order of creative 
imagination, and the ability to apply basic prin­
ciples to entirely new situations. A substantial 
number of highly trained men capable of meeting 
this challenge are urgently needed.
(3) Two world wars and their consequences 
added to other orderly as well as disorderly de­
velopments in world affairs have placed the Unit­
ed States in a very different position from that 
which it occupied at the turn of the century. 
Whether we like it or not, the United States is a 
world powei of first rank, and we can no longer 
adhere to a smug isolationist attitude. We must 
assume a role of responsible leadership in world 
affairs.
(4) Because of the world situation, international 
problems have become an important element in 
many of our domestic problems. But without this 
factor, our public problems have steadily grown 
more complex through the impact of science and 
technology on all of our organizations and insti­
tutions. Our public problems are no longer arften- 
able to solution by the traditional methods of the 
past and it seems clear that we must, if we are 
to survive and prosper as a free society, rely 
more and more on our professional people for aid 
in their solutions.
An Age of Science
Let me offer a few examples of public prob­
lems which contain scientific and technological 
elements:
The Atomic Energy Problem. With the pub­
lic announcement that atomic bombs had been 
exploded over Japan near the end of World War 
II, we were confronted with a multitude of prob­
lems, many of which have not yet been solved— 
international control, civilian vs. military control 
in the United States, security clearance, exchange 
of information with friendly countries, develop­
ment of civilian as well as military applications, 
the part which free enterprise should play in the 
development—and a host of other problems. When 
we were confronted with these problems, it seems 
safe to say that none of our leaders in the legisla­
tive, executive or judicial branches of the Govern­
ment was competent to propose solutions, and 
whether our leaders like it or not, our scientists 
and engineers had to be called for help in finding 
solutions to these public problems.
The National Security Problem. How should 
our resources be spent for research, development 
and production of war material to give us maxi­
mum security as a people? How can we build a 
defense against the devices for offensive warfare 
in the hands of our potential enemy? To find solu­
tions to these important problems we certainly 
require all the help we can get from our scientists 
and engineers.
The Food-Population Problem. Every day we 
have 7,423 more mouths to feed. Thus by 1975 we 
shall have four mouths to feed for every three we 
must feed now. We must do this with no substan­
tial increase in land area under cultivation. This 
clearly is a problem that cannot be solved with­
out the help of scientists and engineers.
The Public Health Problem. This one will not 
be solved by settling the socialized vs. private 
medical services controversy. It will be solved by 
supporting research which will conquer the re­
maining diseases which cripple and kill our people 
before they have enjoyed a full measure of life 
and service; by providing good water supplies and 
sewerage disposal systems; and by improving saf­
ety measures so that accident which cripple and 
kill are more completely eliminated.
International Trade and Aid. It seems to me 
that we have resorted pretty much to the political 
and pressure group methods of 50 years ago in 
handling these problems. I would like to see an 
objective, scientific study of the comparative ef­
fects on our standard of living in America of (a) 
the current “give-^ay” program of direct aid to 
bolster the economy of foreign countries, and (b) 
permitting freer trade between these countries
and the United States to provide a comparable 
improvement in their economy. With anything 
like a comparable effect on our standard of living, 
the latter is obviously preferable because it would 
gain us infinitely more in good will and free world 
cooperation. I’m sure that we have in America 
professional people who are competent to make 
the objective enalysis I have suggested.
All of this emphasizes that, in spite of frequent 
arguments to the contrary, this is the age of sci-> 
ence and technology. Under the circumstances 
it does not seem safe to trust the administration 
of a modern democratic state to men who are ig­
norant of the methods of science and of the bene­
fits to mankind which have been made possible 
through the applications of science. When we have 
leaders who are not competent in this regard, 
we as members of the various professsions have 
a special obligation to be alert and to express our 
views on public problems especially on those 
which have elements related to our field of pro­
fessional competence. Complacency on our part 
could be fatal to the continued existence of a 
strong free society.
Editorial
Americanism
1 continued from page 4]
itself, or against conscription, but against the 
“hypocrisy of the plutocratic gang in Washing­
ton” which he claimed was using American sol­
diers to crush the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia.
Public Schools
Limiting what may be taught in the public 
schools is another serious threat to American 
freedom. The elimination of “Un-American” 
statements from textbooks and the intimidation 
of the school teacher by various community or­
ganizations has removed any semblence of equal 
opportunity for learning about the world’s vari­
ous economical and political systems or even of 
presenting all sides of many world problems. 
Instead only the “right” ideas and solutions 
have been taught. In fact, in many schools only 
those ideas which are approved by the American 
Legion and the Camber of Commerce have any 
chance of being discussed!
For example, the teachers of Portland, Ore­
gon were once prohibited from assigning social­
ism as a topic for debate. A southern newspaper 
once said, “why should we wish that the rising 
generation be taught doctrines that are in direct 
conflict with what we now believe?” The Na­
tional Association of Manufacturers and the 
American Legion conducted an “Un-American” 
campaign against a popular textbook writer for 
bringing up the point that advertising is ulti­
mately paid for by the consumer and ending his 
discussion with the thought-provoking statement, 
“Perhaps you may ask then, is advertising really 
necessary?” Apparently Americanism to some 
means nothing more than being a member of the 
herd. Indeed a committee of the New York state 
legislature in 1921 declared that any teacher who 
“does not approve of the present social system” 
of the United States should “surrender his public 
office.”
All of these instances point up the fact that 
too many of our citizens feel that what has come 
to be the American way of life cannot stand up 
under the criticism and glare of comparison with 
rival ideologies. The American nation is great 
not so much because of the prevailing social sys­
tem, but because that system is earnestly and 
freely believed in* by its people—because they 
themselves are responsible for it.
Continued greatness for the American way 
of life depends on allowing it to compete freely 
with its rivals, not by suppression of those rivals.
R.G.W,

---------------------------------------------------

Pag* Ç—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, March lf, 195t
Carnival—
[continued from page 1] 
or real life, with emphasis on 
color and ingenuity in the man­
ner of presentation.”
Although the site of the mid­
way has not yet been definitely 
determined, the Spring Carnival 
Committee of Student Congress is 
going ahead with plans for Tech’s 
big spring weekend.
The names of the bands for the 
Friday evening jazz concert of 
May 1 and Carnival Ball, Satur­
day, May 2, will be announced 
in the Tartan in April, along with 
plans for all of the Carnival ac­
tivities.
Anderson of BTP has DU’s Baker in a stiff leg lock. Baker over­
came the dilemma to pin Anderson and win the 140 pound wrestling 
title in the matches held at Skibo Gym last Friday.
Hamilton. Stanton had reached*-------------------------------------------------—
the finals by decisioning Ewing 
of Sigma Nu 4-0 while Hamilton 
drew a bye. In an excellent dis­
play of wrestling on both sides,
Hamilton won this match with a 
6 to 3 decision to become the new 
130 pound champion.
In the 140 pound weight 
class the finals were fought be­
tween Anderson of BTP, who had 
pinned SAE’s Carlson, and Baker 
of DU, who had gained a bye.
Baker pinned Anderson in 3:35 
for the title.
Klingener of BTP and Stevens 
of ATO squared off in the 155 
pound class. Stevens had pinned 
Williams of ATO to gain the 
finals, while Klingener pinned 
SAE’s Moran for his berth. Show­
ing superior wrestling knowledge,
Klingener smothered Stevens by 
8-3 count to win the title.
Big Boys Fight Hard 
The 160 pound class title was 
won by Pete Pence of ATO who 
decisioned DU’s Ken Sutherland 
4-0 to win the 170 pound title. Bell 
had pinned Valler of SAE while 
Sutherland pinned McCally of SN.
Two Hard Matches 
Sigma Nu’s Gary Yarborough 
pinned his fraternity brother Gary 
Schwerzler in 3:00 flat to win the 
180 pound title. Yarborough had 
decisioned SAE’s Smith 7-6 in a 
hard fought match while 
Schwerzler won by default from 
Kraynek of SAE when Kraynek 
pulled his jersey to pin him.
Two more big Sigma Nu’s 
squared off for the 195-lb. title 
and in a hard fought match Skip 
Sprenkle pinned Karl Mandry in 
5:00 minutes flat to win the title.
Mandry had edged out Klasnic 
4-3 while Sprenkle pinned Bash- 
ein of SAE to gain the finals.
The matches were handled-well 
this year by Mr. Boyer, director 
of intramural athletics, and Mike 
Aaron who did an excellent job 
of refereeing the matches. *
(•LLECE WEEK
W INTEK-C#LUECIATEJAZZ FE/TIYAL
TO BE HELD AT
CROSSINGEK. NEW VORK
DURING SPRING RECESS 
MARCH 22 • APRIL 3
"Check dote your college is participating "
MIDNIGHT jam Sessions; MOONLIGHT SWIMS
in fabulous new indoor Pool. ICE SKATING 
PARTIES: continuous program, featuring 
STAN RU8IN and his Tigertown S. BILLY 
TAYLOR Trio, CHRIS BARBER Jazz Band. RUSS 
BOWMAN and his Fingerlake 5, JOE CUBA, 
The ESQUIRES. EbOIE ASHMAN Orchestra, 
many others
»35.50 up for any 3 DAYS — 2 NIGHTSI 
Group rates for IS or more.
Write or phone MIKE KAU.fRfVENIS CHAIUUUJ
yACATieNEEt/
107-2? 71st A»e. FOR
BOulevard 1-9539
Carnegie Tartan
IM Basketball 
Finals Will Be 
Held March 20
Intramural'*
Highlites
Intramural 
Night 
This Friday
SN, ATO Tie For 
IM Wrestling Title
Tartans Enter 
NIC Bowling
This year Carnegie Tech has 
entered a bowling team in the 
National Intercollegiate Competi- 
Jion.
The top six bowlers at Tech 
who will compete are: Frank
Drake, who led the Obelisks to 
this year’s school championship; 
Jim Swisher, team leader of this 
year’s runners-up, Sigma Nu; 
John Andrews, leader of this 
year’s third ranking team, DU; 
Dave Harvey, the school’s bowler 
and fourth placed Printing Man­
agement’s big gun; Bob Reber, 
this year’s three-game high in­
dividual, and Jerry Coon of Al­
pha Tau Omega.
Performances
In competing against each 
other, Frank Drake led the other 
five with his three-game 545 ser­
ies. Dave Harvey and Bob Reber 
were the team doubles leaders 
with 1007 pins. Winners of all 
events for the school placed 
thusly: (1) Dave Harvey with 
1611 total pins and a 179.0 aver­
age, (2) Frank Drake with 1558, 
and 173.1 average; and (3) Bob 
Reber, 1552 and 172.5.
Along with competing in the 
intercollegiate tournament these 
six also gain the distinction of 
being this year’s all-school first 
team. Those on the second team 
are Jim Widdis, Lou Perretta, 
Whitey Mueller, Bill Feige, Mark 
Conti, and Henry Carmichael.*
As of last week six teams still 
remained in the basketball play­
offs. To get in the quarterfinals, 
the Phi Kaps had to bump off 
GSIA, and the Delts had to knock 
out TKN.
The second of these two games 
was a runaway. The Delts scored 
almost twice as many points as 
TKN, as the latter lost 40-21. 
However, the Phi Kaps edged out 
GSIA in what seemed to be a per­
sonal battle between two individ­
uals. Two all-school candidates, 
Mike Flynn and Benn Petran, had 
a scoring battle, Mike scored 20 
points to Petran’s 16.
PK’s Falcons
PK’s win earned them a second 
shot at the Falcons. In their pre­
vious game, the Falcons won by 
one point in a double overtime; in 
the quarterfinal game the results 
were almost duplicated. However, 
the Falcons scored four points in 
the last minute to put an end to 
see-saw battle, 48-44. Flynn, for 
the losers, was high with 29 
points Trageser led the Falcons 
with 16 points.
Just as the Delts took TKN, so 
they were defeated by the Eng­
lishmen. However, the Delts come 
the closest to defeating the Eng­
lishmen this year, as they lost 
52-34 in a relatively high scoring 
game. Five fellows were in double 
figures for this game. For the 
Delts, Brown scored 13, and Lin- 
duff, 11. For the Englishmen, 
Doxtader and Valley had 13, and 
Martin had 12.
The finals will be held this Fri­
day as will the consolation match. 
They will be part of the Intra- 
murali Night program.
Plesniak, 9Mates 
Break Two IM 
Shooting Records
Two records were set this year 
in intramural foul shooting run­
offs. This year’s champs, the En­
glishmen, set the team high re­
cord, while one of their members 
broke the individual high record.
The Englishmen tallied on 403 
of 500 shots for an 80.6% aver­
age. Had they not been compet­
ing this year, the Kappa Sigs 
I would have remained campus
Call pool finals ended last Fri, 
day night, and the results were 
surprising. Joe Martin, an Eru 
glishman, thoroughly whipped Ed 
Guerdan by 74 points. The results 
are astonishing because Joe not 
only defeated two of the four j£i, 
lows seeded above him, but TEU 
defeated them handily.
This year the all-school volley, 
ball team was selected differently 
than in previous years. However 
George Thomas was unanimously 
picked MVP for the second | 
straight year. Those on the all- i 
school first and second teams are: j 
First Team
Bob Reber, SAE, Spiker; Tom 
Beig, ATO, Spiker; Dick Ayst, 
SAE, Spiker; George Thomas] 
Setter; Gerry Wright, SAE, Set­
ter, and Fred Garibaldi, ATO, 
Setter.
Second Team
Bennie Perlmutter, TDP, Spik­
er; Charley Maddrey, SN, Spiker; 
Charley Betz, SAE, Spiker; Bob 
Gordon, SAE, Setter; Paul Wright, 
SAE, Setter, and Bimbo Roth, 
TDP, Setter.
Again, the Faculty Bull^gs 
look like a cinch to take the first 
two spots in co-rec badminston. 
Mr. Birdy and Miss Trammel are 
to keep their title; however, Mr. 
Haynes and Miss Paille are try­
ing hard to dethrone the champs. 
Yellow Book
During the past year many 
arguments about rulings in. the 
yellow book have occurred. Any­
one who wishes to have a [con 
added, detracted, or changed, 
please send a written request to 
the sports editor of the Tartan 
by means of the school mailbox 
within the next week.
Swimming rosters are due to­
morrow.
champs with 391. ATO came in 
third with 384, SAE finished 
fourth with 372, and the Delts, 
fifth with 361.
John Plesniak, last year’s rcm- 
ner-up for the individual honor 
gave no one a chance as he made 
93 out of 100 shots in breaking 
the old school record of 92.. Team­
mate Joe Martin and Bob Jurick, 
KS, were immediate runners-up 
with 87 apiece. Dick Luppi, ATO, 
was fourth with 85.
Tartans 
Picked to Win 
WPC Trophy
The finals in the intramural wrestling tournament were 
held last Friday evening with Sigma Nu and Alpha Tau 
Omega tieing for first place with 11 points apiece with Beta 
Theta Pi third and DU fourth.
The first match in the 130 lb. division was fought between 
last vear’s champion Art Stanton of the Betas and ATO’s Dick
George Paris — Sports Editor
K. J. Kefuuld* Tub. Co., WLuaton-Smlea, M. C.
“Oh-oh! There goes 
our last pack of Camels!”
More men in high places
smoke Camels than any if) 
other cigarette today. For 
the 10th straight year, this 
cigarette outsells every 
other — every filter, every 
king-size, every regular.
The Camel blend of costly 
tobaccos has never been 
equalled for rich flavor and 
easygoing mildness. The 
best tobacco makes the best 
smoke. ^
Climb above fads
and fancy stuff . . •
Have a real cigarette - 
have a CAMEL

---------------------------------------------------

..
Wednesday, March 18, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
Skibos Lead Pack 
For WPC Trophy
Carnegie Tech has forged into the lead for the second 
annual West Penn Conference Title due to fine records posted 
the swimming and rifle teams.
Tech now leads Westminster by four points, 38 to 34, with 
Geneva third with 31 points. However, the Tartans who are 
defending champions must show well in the spring sports to 
retain the coveted trophy.
Westminster had been leading 
the fold this year by posting ex­
cellent records in basketball and 
football. Tech came through in 
cross-country to win that title 
then with the swimming 
team posting a 2-1 record in con­
ference play, and the rifle team 
showing an undefeated 5-0 re­
cord, has gained the lead.
The Tartans edge over West­
minster can be attributed to the
fact that Tech placed teams in 
all five fall sports whereas West­
minster entered only three of 
these sports. *
The run for the title should be 
a close one this year, especially 
since Tech does not have a base­
ball team and Westminster does. 
Both schools have fine track, golf, 
and tennis teams and should do 
well in all these sports.
With the spring sports remain­
ing, this is how the teams stand:
W-L Pts.
Carnegie Tech ............ 1-1 2
Westminster ................... 3-1 *6
Geneva ..........................2-1-1 5
jjfcve City............................
fiF Francis ............................
St. Vincent .....................1-1-1
Duquesne ..............................
Waynesburg ............... 0-3
Football Cross-Country Basketball Swimming Rifle Total
‘Champion
W-L6-0
5-12-3
3-2 
1-5
1-4e-3
Pts. W-L Pts. W-L Pts. W-L Pts.
iOne match left.
*1210
462
20
5-7
9-3
8-42-68-0
3-72-2
1-9
10
*18
16
4
166
42
2-10-3
3-1 *6
15-0
3-3}3-2
Pt.s
38
34
3122
18
9
Benner To Receive 
Joe Pash Trophy 
At Military Ball
By the selection of his own 
teammates, Earl C. Benner was 
chosen as the outstanding player 
on last year’s football team. This 
honor does not go without recog­
nition. Each year Phi Kappa Fra­
ternity presents the Joe Pash 
trophy to the oustanding player. 
The trophy is given in the mem­
ory of Joe Pash, who was killed 
during the Second World War. 
The presentation of this award to 
Earl Benner will take place at 
the Military Ball, March 21, 1959.
Drill
For the drill period of 
March 19, 1959 the Inclement 
weather flag will be placed by 
the flag pole in front of En­
gineering Hall, and all Com­
panies will form on Tech 
Street, with “A” Company 
forming in front of the tennis 
courts and “B” & “C” Com­
panies falling in front of Web 
Hall, and 2nd Battalion will 
form facing Machinery Hall.
Don H Be Left Outlt
Order Your
1959
THISTLE
Remember—
Plan Altead
Pi Mu Epsilon
Pi Mu Epsilon, national 
mathematics honorary, is pre­
senting the first lecture in its 
¿annual series at 4:30, Tuesday, 
March 24 in Porter Hall 100. 
Dr. M. C. Scholander of 
Tech’s mathematics depart­
ment will be guest speaker, 
discussing the “Mathematical 
Aspects of Bridge.” All inter­
ested persons are invited to 
attend this enlightening event.
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
JUNDERST ANDIN G 
THE BIBLE
For free booklet to help you, write:
Christadelphia Bible Society 
3220 Nottingham Drive 
Pittsburgh 35, Pa.
Engineers
Aslowa$74
I
ON-CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS
E
J March 19, 1959
I--------------
Make arrangements 
with your Placement 
Officer NOW
MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS-AND CHEMISTS:
BE ONE OF JUST
SELECT TRAINEES AT HAGAN CHEMICALS & CONTROLS, INC.
Wary of being “lost” in a mass-production trainee- 
platoon? You’ll like the situation at Hagan. We’re 
looking for just 20 qualified graduates this year.
We’re small enough to recognize personal effort, big 
enough to have as our customers: 98 of the 100 largest in­
dustrial firms in America, 40 of the largest utilities, and 
thousands of other municipal and household customers.
WHAT DOES HAGAN MAKE AND DO?
Controls and Instrumentation. We design, manufac­
ture and sell automatic control and instrumentation 
systems for use in power plants, steel mills, aeronautical 
testing facilities, and in many basic process control 
applications—including electronic instrumentation.
Industrial Water Service. Our Hall Service Engi­
neers help thousands of industrial plants prevent costly 
water troubles, by on-the-job consultation and service 
for every type of industrial water problem—from pro­
curement to disposal.
Calgon and Hagan Chemicals. Calgon phosphate 
compounds, and Calgonite detergents—including popu­
lar household versions of each—are among the many 
chemicals we process and sell for water treatment in util­
ity, industrial, municipal and household water systems.
HOW WE TBAIN ENGINEERS AND CHEMISTS AT HAGAN
Mechanical and electrical engineers, for our Me­
chanical Division, receive six months training, including:
laboratory work; classroom instruction; on-the-job train­
ing with a Field Engineer; and rotation in various 
departments. Then, assignment as a Field Service 
Engineer—where possible in a territory of your choice.
Chemical engineers and chemists, for our Hall and 
Calgon Divisions, receive six months training, includ­
ing: classroom work; on-the-job training with a Field 
Engineer, and rotation in various departments. Then 
assignment to a District Office—where possible in a 
territory of your choice.
What’s ahead for you? Hagan is growing fast. Field 
Service Engineers and Chemists have excellent oppor­
tunities for positions in Sales Engineering, or adminis­
trative work.
For specific details on type of work, travel, benefits, 
etc., make an appointment through your College Place­
ment Officer to learn about the opportunities for you at 
Hagan. Remember, you start as one of a select team 
of only 20 graduates.
IHAGAN CHEMICALS & CONTROLS, INC.
Hagan Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pennsylvania 
Divisions: Calgon Company, Hall Laboratories
Hagan personnel officer will be Interviewing 
on the date shown below. See your placement 
officer for Interview time.
Monday. April 6
*

---------------------------------------------------

r»g« 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, March IS, 195t
GSIA Holds
Sixth Course 
For Executives
The sixth annual program for 
executives at Tech's GSIA was 
presented March 8 and 9 to a 
select group of twenty three ex­
ecutives from thirteen states and 
two foreign countries.
During their nine week stay in 
Pittsburgh these men were of­
fered a program designed to aug­
ment their specific experience 
with broader assignments to pre­
pare them to meet the complex 
requirements of senior positions 
in their organizations.
Staff
The staff of Tech’s GSIA was 
supplemented by outstanding lead­
ers from business, labor and gov­
ernment who met with the group 
in informal dinner sessions. 
Among these were: Dean G. L. 
Bach of GSIA; Herbert Johnson, 
vice president, Jones and Laugh- 
lin Steel Corporation; Harry 
Schwartz, member of the editorial 
board of the New York Times and 
its specialist on Soviet Affairs.
Also present were M. Gopala 
Menon, Consul General of India 
in New York with the rank of 
Minister; George W. Brooks, re­
search director of the Interna­
tional Brotherhood of Pulp, Sul­
phite, and Paper Mill Workers 
(AFL-CIO), largest union in the 
paper industry; Ernest Tupper, 
manager of the Washington office 
of the American Can Company; 
Patrick M. Malin, executive direc­
tor of the American Civil Liber­
ties Union; Carrol Shanks, presi­
dent of the Prudential Insurance 
Company of America.
Theory of the Firm
A highlight of this year’s session 
was the “Business Decision 
Game” which augmented the 
work of the business policy course. 
This game was played with 
the aid of a high speed electronic 
computer in Carnegie’s Computa­
tion Center and will put small
groups of participants against 
each other, acting as top man­
agement of competing firms. Con­
ditions of decision making were 
simulated and each groups’ ap­
proach was evaluated by the 
computer.
According to Dr. G. L. Bach, 
Dean of G.S.I.A., the shortage 
of broadly trained men for top 
management positions is a major 
problem in American industry, 
i Many men who hold top positions 
| in single divisions or functional 
I areas have accumulated most of 
their experience and technical 
competence in a limited field, 
j Concentration on the job at hand 
, makes it difficult for them to 
develop their capacity for effec- 
| tive leadership at senior executive 
levels involving company wide 
problems and responsibilities.
Essence Leadership 
The requirements of effective 
industrial leadership are: ability 
to take a company wide view of 
operating problems; understand­
ing the human problems of busi­
ness organizations; skill in organ­
izing and analyzing facts for de­
cision making: understanding of 
economic and political problems.
These complex requirements 
make the selection and develop­
ment of men for senior admini­
strative assignments a particular­
ly difficult task. The Carnegie 
program provides training in 
meeting broader and more com­
plex pi'oblems that influence com- 
: pany policy.
Congress
tcontinued from page 41 
cause of excessive unexcused ab­
sences from Congress meetings. 
They are: Whalan — Printing 
Management, Mandros — Alpha 
Tau Omega, Chaiken — Beta 
Sigma Rho, Atkinson — Indus­
trial Management, Sanford — 
Birch Hall, Crowe — Cedar and 
Cypress Halls.
The next meeting of Student 
Congress will be held on March 
25.
HIP, HIP, HURRAY 
for the
GREYHOUND* way 
to save money!
Got the good word about 
Greyhound Scenicruiser 
Service®? It’s the latest, 
the greatest way to go... 
with air-conditioning, pic­
ture windows, air-suspen­
sion ride and complete 
restroom! You’ll have a 
ball headin’ home on a 
Greyhound — it’s often 
faster than other public 
transportation, and always 
less expensive!
ii'.'.U.J...
~ «
COMPARE THESE LOW,
LOW FARES:
Cleveland ...........$ 4.60
. 12.20
Washington, D. C.. 8.35
. 14.05
. 9.40
. 6.65
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a 
Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package 
Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
ITS SUCH A COMFORT 
TO TAKE THE BUS...AND 
LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US! IGREYHOUND
LIBERTY at GRANT 
GRant 1-5700
Arab Viewpoint 
Topic of Hillel
By Margery Morgenstern
“The Arab Point of View” will 
be discussed by Mr. Robert Hess 
of Tech’s history department at 
the Hillel Brunch next Sunday, March 22.
Qualifications
Mr. Hess has many qualifica­
tions to speak on this topic. 
Africa and the Middle East are his 
fields of specialization; he gradu­
ated from Yale with a degree in 
these subjects, did his post-grad­
uate work at Yale and the Uni­
versity of Rome.
He is now teachirtg a course on 
Africa and the Middle East. He 
has traveled widely in these coun­
tries and was in Isreal a little over 
a year ago.
Discussion
Mr. Hess wishes to stress that 
he is not necessarily expressing 
his own views in this talk, but he 
feels that, because of the import­
ance of the question, both sides 
of the argument should be heard. 
After his speech there will be an 
open discussion of this controver­
sial and interesting subject. This 
meeting is not restricted to Hillel 
members, and all who are inter­
ested in this important subject 
are cordially invited to attend.
AIEE
A. H. Albertson, Jr., a field en­
gineer for Leeds & Northrup 
Company, addressed the stu­
dent branch of the American In­
stitute of Electrical Engineers at 
Carnegie Tech on Tuesday, March 
10, at 8 p.m. His topic was 
“The Role of an Engineer in the 
Instrument Industry.”
5CF
The Student Christian Federa­
tion will hold a worship service 
Wednesday morning at 7:30 at the 
campus chapel in Breed Hall in 
Margaret Morrison.
International Club
A meeting of the club will be 
held at 7:45 p.m. on Sunday, 
March 22, in Carnegie Union. A 
mock debate is to be held and the 
topic will be: “That This House 
Considers Fifty Stars a Sufficient 
Number of Stars for Any Flag.”
AFCEA
The CIT student chapter of ^ 
Armed Forces Communications 
and Electronics Association Will 
join the Pittsburgh chapter to 
view a demonstration of stereo­
phonic color television and other 
electronic equipment at the Ham­
burgh Brothers Plant, RCA Dis­
tributors, 213 Galveston St., at 
7:30 p.m. Students interested in 
such equipment are invited to 
tend. Cadet Steve Ravas, AFCEA 
student chapter president, or Cap­
tain Bohnert, Military Depart­
ment, may be contacted for fur­
ther details.
AFCEA meetings in April and 
May will be held in GSIA Audi­
torium. On April 23, Dr. A. J. 
Perl irs, Computations Center, 
GSIA, will speak on Electronic 
Data Processing Systems. In 
the guest speaker will be Colonel 
George Sampson, Chief of the 
Army Communications Service 
Office in Washington, D.C.
rCHEMISTS I
A
rpHYSICISTs
w
A LEADEI 
IN NUCLEi 
RESEARC
MATHEMATICIANS
MARCH 19
a UCRL staff member will be on campus 
to answer your questions about employment 
opportunities at the Laboratory.
Our scientists and engineers, with outstanding achievements 
in the field of nuclear research, are currently at work on 
diversified projects such as:
• Nuclear devices
• Basic particle physics
• Nuclear powered ramjet propulsion systems
• Controlled thermonuclear reactions 
(now unclassified)
• Engineering and scientific application 
of nuclear explosives to mining, 
excavations, and power
The finest facilities, and encouragement to exercise creative 
thinking and imagination, are offered qualified graduates in­
terested in research careers.
Call your placement office for an appointment.
m
mi
Kc-UNIVERSITY OP 
CALIFORNIA RADIATION 
LABORATORY 
B*rkW«/ amd Uvrmof, California
