The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943
MANPOWER COMMISSION TO 
GRANT NEW DEFERMENTS
Well-Liked Teacher 
In Costume Ec. Dept. 
Dies of Heart Failure
Last Monday the school received 
word that Miss Grace Ann Sheriff, 
instructor in the Costume Economics 
Department, had died. Miss Sheriff, 
the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Sam­
uel G. Sheriff of Wilkinsburg, was
MISS GRACE SHERIFF
born in Pueblo, Colorado, November 
13, 1901. In 1924 she graduated 
from th o Costume Economics De­
partment of Carnegie Tech. After 
graduation she taught for several 
years in Corry, Pennsylvania, and 
then came to Pittsburgh to do pro­
fessional designing with one of the 
outstanding designers in the city. 
She came back to Tech as an in­
structor in the Costume Economics 
Department in 1929 and was made 
an assistant professor in that de­
partment last May. In 1936 she re­
ceived her Master’s Degree in cloth­
ing from Columbia.
Miss Sheriff was an active, am­
bitious person with a great deal of 
mental curiosity. She was always 
taking courses of one kind or an­
other; she made a special trip to 
New England last fall to take an 
intensive course in textiles; in the 
winter she studied voice and speech 
with Mrs. Skinner. Very much in­
terested in the theatre, she took 
courses at Columbia during the 
summer. Besides teaching classes 
and taking outside work, she repre- 
ented Margaret Morrison on the CIT 
War Committee, was very active in 
the Alumnae Association, sponsored 
a sorority, and taught evening 
classes in clothing for the girls in 
Trinity Church.
A very style-conscious person, 
Miss Sheriff was always stunningly 
dressed in clothes she made herself. 
She had an eye for striking color 
combinations and unusual fabrics 
which she often picked up in little 
out-of-the-way shops in New York 
continued on page 2
Draft Boards Allowed To Give Buhl Foundation 
24 Months After Registration Gives Scholarships
A vital change in the existing practice regarding student deferments 
has just been announced by the National Headquarters in a telegram to 
all state directors of Selective Service. This release modifies the status 
quo in four respects, two of which have direct bearing to engineering 
students.
It eliminates the date July 1, 1945, by which time the student to be 
eligible for deferment must have completed his training and substitutes a 
continuing policy: a student is eligible for deferment if he can complète 
his training within 24 months after certification.
It eliminates from consideration for deferment heating, ventilating, 
refrigerating, air conditioning, safety and transportation engineers, and 
adds agricultural engineers.
Similar measures have been taken for pre-professional students in med­
icine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, osteopathy and theology; while for 
students of forestry, pharmacy, optometry, and agricultural sciences, these 
steps have been modified by adding a qualifying limitation by setting a 
quota for each institution: that the number of students in the freshman or 
first year class in any of these professionl schools shall not exceed 150% of 
the average number of students graduating at the bachelor degree level 
from that institution over the past three years.
What Is The Date of Certification?
In interpreting these amendments, a number of detailed and several 
general factors should be borne in mind. The phrase “within 24 months 
after the date of certification” is not related to the age of the individual 
student. The period begins with the date on which the institution certifies 
to the local board that the student can complete his training within 24 
months. When the student reaches his eighteenth birthday he registers 
with his local Selective Service Board; shortly, thereafter, the Board mails 
him the regular questionnaires. Upon receipt of this form the student or 
the institution may request occupational deferment for the student and 
attach thereto the institution’s certification hat the student can complete 
his training within 24 months from that date.
Results of The Measure
Several major considerations are of very great importance. Students 
should remember, that all previous rulings remain in full force and effect 
with the addition of the mentioned amendments. This is in itself a reitera­
tion by the Selective Service and by the War Manpower Commission that 
the shortage in these necessary fields is so acute and the need for con­
tinuing training so urgent that the students should be given consideration 
for occupational deferment. However, very great care should be exercised 
by the institution to select only students of such ability that they can 
be properly classified as potentially necessary men. One institution, un­
fortunately, advertised that its students were in a favorable position to 
be deferred for two years. On the other hand, every effort should be made 
to utilize to the full existing training facilities in necessary fields through 
the enrollment of women students, physically disqualified males, and the 
deferment of those men majoring in necessary fields who have demon­
strated abilities which make deferment justifiable in the total war effort.
Selective Service Headquarters further suggest that institutions re­
frain from expanding their training facilities in these areas. If institutions 
try to build up student bodies in these fields much larger than they nor­
mally have had, the entire deferment system may be endangered.
The limitation of the time for completion of training to 24 months from 
the date of certification will undoubtedly, and should, stimulate accelera­
tion in the secondary schools. Unless this is done, only the youngest 
students will have progressed far enough in college to (a) provide the 
institutions with sufficient knowledge of the individual’s abilities to justify 
a request for deferment, (b) enable the individual to begin his work in an 
essential field, and (c) complete the training with the time allotted.
In ending, Selective Service states emphatically, that all educational 
institutions should realize the full significance of student deferment in its 
relationship to the war effort, so that no stigma may be attached to either 
men or women students in their civilian capacity. Such students should 
be assured that they are filling a war need in an activity declared essential 
by the War Man Power Commission and, the Selective Service System.
Carnegie Tech has recently been 
endowed with $33,333.00. This sum, 
which has been granted by the Buhl 
Foundation, has been added to the 
Buhl Professorship of Electrical En­
gineering.
The original grant of $50,000 was 
made in 1939 of which $10,000 was 
paid each year, and now the new en­
dowment assures the continued de­
velopment of the graduate program 
in electrical engineering.
The new grant will eventually 
mean the addition of $2,000,000 to 
Carnegie Tech’s endowment fund; 
for as soon as an equal amount of 
money is raised elsewhere, the Car­
negie Corporation of New York will 
grant $1,333,333 to make^a total of 
two million dollars.
Under the terms of the endow­
ment, the money must be used only 
for the maintenance of theBuhl Pro­
fessorship of Electrical Engineering 
and the program in graduate in­
struction in that science for at least 
twenty-five years. Afterwards Car­
negie Tech may use the money to 
carry on any other activities which 
are necessary for the school.
The reason for the Buhl Founda­
tion’s endowment is that since Pitts­
burgh occupies a very high position 
continued on page 2
I, F. Council Elects 
Smith New President
Under the leadership of its new 
president, Hugh Smith, Interfrater­
nity Cfouncil has begun making plans 
for its activities during the school 
year. Hugh, who takes time off 
from his duties as DU president to 
further the fortunes of Carnegie’s 
athletic teams, replaces Reid Byers 
as director of the council. Reid is 
president of the Kappa Sigs, who 
were recently “campused,” thus 
necessitating the election of a new 
president. Delt president, John 
Wolff, is the new secretary, while 
PiKA head, Bob Little, remains as 
treasurer.
At the end of the semester in May, 
Interfraternity Council was suspend­
ed for the duration. Shortly after 
the beginning of the present term, 
however, the need for some sort of 
governing body for fraternities be­
came apparent. There were no 
rushing rules to speak of, and the 
position of fraternities on the Tech 
campus was generally doubtful.
continued on page 2
Traditions Exam
Traditions exam wiU be given 
Thursday afternoon, July 29, in 
room 218 E. H.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943
CdUioA^L AtuHcUaisiLetters To The Editor
For once we were surprised and pleased to find that people at Tech do 
read editorials once in a while. In fact, we were overwhelmed by the num­
ber of comments that we met after our last issue—ranging from that of the 
disgruntled fraternity man who maintained that we were just spreading 
malicious rumors, to that of the faculty member who said, “You’re right, 
this is a damn dictatorship!” Everyone from freshmen to ex-editors had 
something to say about the way Tech is being governed. And, good, bad, 
or outraged, every comment was music to our ears. For something has 
been brought out into the light here, even though it may be so small a 
thing as the unvoiced restlessness of the students, and the lack of any real 
understanding between them and the Administration.
The Tartan has no intention of setting itself up as either a crusading 
newspaper or as a vehicle to stir up rebelliousness in the student body. 
Neither are we omniscient sages, able to point out the faults of everyone 
but ourselves. But we do think we have found our place—we could easily 
be a medium through which the ideas and information of one group on 
campus could reach the other groups. We are in a place to transmit verified 
knowledge to the whole campus, and we are hoping that this offer will be 
taken up by any and all who desire to do so.
Our Batting Average — .500
What have we accomplished so far? Well, it looks like we have a 
batting average of about .500. In last week’s editorial it seems that we 
were justified on one score, broke even on another, and were sadly lacking 
in authentic information on a third. (We hope this will never happen 
again. We have taken a solemn self-vow to find the facts first, next time.) 
We were, however, very lucky to find that two members of the Adminis­
tration were interested enough in the students to invite the senior staff to 
a conference in order to clear up some of the questions we had raised. Dean 
Warden and Mr. Murphy took a good two hours from one of their busy 
afternoons to explain some of the Administration’s actions and to learn of 
the students’ reactions to them.
In the case of the denial of a sorority’s right to join a national sorority, 
we were substantiated in our claim that the individual who refused this 
tight was not the person to whom authority in matters of policy, such as 
this, had been delegated. On the subject of the Scottie, the ground was 
divided. We were technically right in our claim, but the Administration’s 
objection ©n a purely financial basis appeared quite sound. We were as­
sured that there is no subversive campaign against our favorite humor 
magazine on the part of our officials. It seems that when the Scottie can get 
in shape to collect its own accounts receivable, the debt it has accumulated 
over several years will not only be easily paid, but they will have a large 
(surplus from which to draw. Until that is done, however, the Administra­
tion feels that they cannot allow the Scottie to go further into debt.
On the subject of fraternity suspension, however, we must confess that 
we were a little hasty and misinformed. As much as we hate to admit it, 
we did not know about the action taken last February by Interfraternity 
Council, itself, to the effect that the punishment for holding a “hell week” 
would be the permanent suspension of the offending fraternity. So, badly 
as we feel about any fraternity’s suspension, the best we can say is that we 
know they were very lucky that the full punishment was not given in this 
unfortunate case.
A Valuable Error
And, in a way, we are glad that we made this mistake. It has 
shown us the ease with which half-truths and rumors can circulate. 
For the last week we have been listening to all the rumors we could 
hear, and trying to find the basis of fact for them. The most amazing 
of them all—that the fall term would be run on the swing shift, with the 
army students attending classes during the day, and the civilians at night— 
proved to be utterly preposterous. (That is, unless there is a sudden 
reversal of policy between now and the end of August!)
From all of this we have a plea to make—before getting excited about 
the latest piece of “news” you hear, find out if it is the truth. Or better still, 
ask us to help you, because we sincerely want to see that our pet campus 
rumors have a real basis in fact.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Cnrn*ri« Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief...........................HI. 7093
Business Manager......................SC. 8951
£»terod a* seconC>ctass matter la tbe Pittsburgh Post Office nnder the Act of March S, 1879.
Published weekly daring sehool year, except holidays and examination period«.
Subscription Price 11.10 per year.
Editor-In-Chief...........................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Business Manager..............................................................................................................Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors................................................................Helena Aronson, Walt Darby
Sports Editor ........................................................................................................Chuck Peterson
Asst. Business Manager.................................................................................................Merle Wolff
Advertising Manager ........................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Photography Editor ..........................................................................................................Bill Gorog
Photographers..........................................................Torn Bokman, Joe Urban, Larry Kettler
Business Staff: Bob Charpie, Bill Watkins, Al Keuntz, Ted Gazda
Circulation................................... .........................................................................Chester Feinberg
Sports Staff: John Lindberg, Al Neleson, Joe Vogan, Jim Montague, Conrad Welt- 
man.
K9CNTBO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
The Carngit Wl-L k-d ciIoL kL cL
Bo« ion • Los TheCe a rTn giTnteKt9
Dear Editor:
The army commented last week 
in a manner highly distasteful to 
the insignificant, forgotten civilians. 
Before attempting to convert Pri­
vates Fredrickson and Marcus, I 
shall bow reverently to Private 
Scott and humbly thank him for 
giving the civilian something very 
rare—a bit of praise. Private Scott 
is one of the few people who seem 
to realize that we civilians are work­
ing.
But now I again turn my atten­
tion to F & M’s comments. For ref­
erence, I quote a portion of their last 
paragraph:
“Private Scott’s statement about 
civilian students’ giving up athletics 
for the duration because of the pres­
sure of essential, war-effort studies 
is quite silly when one considers 
that we soldiers, already veterans 
of the army, are infinitely more val­
uable to the government. If this 
were not true, not one of us would 
be studying engineering. Perhaps 
we would even be out of uniform.”
Boys, calm yourselves. We fully 
realize and appreciate your pride in 
your uniform, but don’t let that 
pride become ego. Are you actually 
infinitely more valuable to the gov­
ernment than we? I doubt it. Per­
haps you don’t realize why we are 
here. 4-F? Not many. It’s called
2-A, meaning we are more valuable 
in our present status than in the 
army. Most of us have left far be­
hind such basic courses as trig,
Miss Sheriff . . .
continued, from page 1 
which sold remnants of fine import­
ed materials. She also made some 
of her hats. When she came back 
from a trip to New York, she knew 
what was in every store in the city, 
what the newest and most exciting 
night clubs were, and what was go­
ing on in the theatres.
Miss Sheriff was very fond of peo­
ple in general and was especially 
close to her students—she would re­
member their names even after they 
had been out of school for several 
years and had been married. She 
was a very popular teacher with the 
students in the Costume Economics 
Department because she was so very 
much interested in them.
Interfraternity Council , . .
continued from page 1 
With the solution to these and simi­
lar problems in mind, Interfrater­
nity Council begun to function.
As Smith puts it, fraternities es­
pecially in war-times are liable to 
be scorned as being made up of “rah- 
rah” boys who have little regard for 
the gravity of present conditions. 
Interfraternity Council has as one of 
its objectives the prevention of such 
opinions. However, it is the opin­
ion of the council that fraternities 
should be given certain privileges 
by the administration, and will like­
wise work toward receiving these 
privileges. Although a discussion of 
rushing rules is the only action it 
has yet taken, we may be sure that 
Interfraternity Council will do all 
in its power to adjust the actions of 
all fraternities to be helpful to and 
in keeping with the war effort, while 
at the same time assuring these fra­
ternities their rightful place as im­
portant factors on the Tech campus.
chemistry, analyt and descript, and 
are now delving into specializedx 
and advanced engineering subjects.
Perhaps you don’t realize either 
that, though most of us will event­
ually enter the armed services, 
many others will be important links 
on the home front. Your statement, 
‘Terhaps we would even be out of 
uniform” infers that you regard any 
engineer in civvies as worthless. 
You need only ask yourself why 
American equipment is superior to 
change your views on this. Without 
the civilian engineer, your front is 
worthless; and conversely, without 
your front the home front is worth­
less. One is the chicken, one is the 
egg; which is which, or which came 
first is unimportant. But each is 
indispensable, one cannot exist 
without the other.
Soldiers, we have something to 
work for, just as you do. We have 
no stage door canteens, half-fare 
privileges, or distinguishing uni­
forms, but we don’t cry about it. 
After we finish tearing the world 
apart, we will put it together again.
I hope it is now obvious to you 
that C. I. T. is the proud coach of 
an unbeatable team. That team can 
only function as a unit, so let’s go 
back to work with new faith in “the 
other guy” and end these argu­
ments as to which half of the team 
is better. The civilian has com­
mented!
DICK O’NEILL.
Buhl Foundation
continued from page 1 
nationally in industry which is based 
on science and engineering, it should 
be in a corresponding position in 
education in these same fields. In 
many circles it is believed that en­
gineering education has become 
frozen in the mold of an earlier pe­
riod and what is needed now is gen­
uine engineering scientists to sup­
plement the work of those men who 
are trained to be engineering prac­
titioners.
The problem is to be solved by the 
selection of those students who have 
the necessary qualifications for work 
in a graduate program that will 
stimulate the development of their 
analytical and creative powers and 
build the foundation for their be­
coming engineering students.
According to President Doherty, 
during whose administration the 
original project was begun, the re­
sults have so far been very good, in 
spite of the dislocations due to the 
war.
New Freshman to Have 
12-Week Semesters
Action has been taken by the Edu­
cational Senate and the Executive 
Board to enable entering civilian 
students of engineering to be pre­
pared for transfer to A. S. T. P. if 
called by selective service. Fresh­
men who have been accepted for 
admission in the College of Engi­
neering will pursue a sequence of 
twelve week terms, paralleled with 
the Army Specialized Training Pro­
gram at Carnegie Tech. The first 
term will begin August 9, three 
weeks ahead of the previously es­
tablished date for beginning classes.
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
one of the profs
If you should run into a likeable 
fellow on the Tech campus with a 
terrific sense of humor and a slowly- 
disappearing New England accent, 
you can bet that it is Professor Nor­
man H. Dawes. His accent, which 
has held up pretty well for his 15 
years at Tech, came from Massa­
chusetts where he attended Boston 
University and did graduate work at 
Harvard to receive his B. A. and M. 
A. degree. What embarrasses him 
most is to be called doctor, but this 
title soon will be official for he will 
receive his Ph.D. after he takes his 
last oral exam.
This summer he spends his time 
teaching junior and sophomore So­
cial Relations to civilian students, 
first and second term courses of 
American History, and first term 
Geography to soldiers.
He is very well-known and liked 
in the Arts building where he or­
dinarily teaches in the fall. He has 
a variety of students there; his Arts 
and Civilization course brings him 
in contact with the Art School stu­
dents, History of Civilization is 
taught in the Margaret Morrison 
College, and a course in the Social 
Nature of Art is taught to engineers. 
Professor Dawes noted that the en­
gineers taking this course are sur­
prisingly interested in and sym­
pathetic with artistic expression. He 
said, “The fact that artists have a 
discipline and technique seems to 
impress engineers.”
When asked why he started teach-
. . . Norman Dawes
ing History, he said that he liked the 
subject and his own voice. Outside 
of teaching, he enjoys a happy home 
life with his wife and six-year old 
son, lectures to women’s clubs, and 
spends his vacations at his 10-acre 
farm in New Hampshire. Incident­
ally, he raised enough vegetables in 
his garden for 77 quarts of* food.
As business manager of the sta­
dium for Carnegie Tech football 
games, he has had many experiences 
with policemen, newsboys and hot 
dog salesmen. If you want a future 
Ph. D.’s eye view of interesting peo­
ple, drop in his office in the Arts 
building, you’ll emerge quite en­
lightened after a session with a clev­
er conversationalist.
Puerto-Rican Graduate 
Student Aivarded Dr.’s
A. A Colon, a teaching assistant 
in the chemistry department, re­
ceived his doctor’s degree in physical 
organic chemistry last Tuesday. 
This enables him to return for the 
next semester, to the University of 
Puerto Rico, where he is assistant 
professor of organic chemistry.
Working under Dr. Warner, he has 
been doing research on hydrolyses 
of esters of lactic acid. Although 
this work was not intended primar­
ily for industrial application, it may 
be useful, considering that lactic 
acid and its compounds are used in 
finishing leather and making plas­
tics and synthetic rubber.
Mr. Colon has been connected with 
several universities. In addition to
Drink Key Cola
Manufactured By
BALCH FLAVOR CO.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Dance to Billy Hinds Every 
Saturday Evening This Summer
Continental Terrace
85 Cents (Plus Tax) Per Person
Hotel Schenley
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
Traditions Exam Will 
Be Given For Freshmen 
On Thursday, July 29
Carrying out their Freshman 
Orientation Program, the A P O has 
just announced that the date for 
the Traditions examination for all 
Freshmen will be Thursday, July 
29. It will be given at four o’clock 
in Room 218, Engineering Hall. For 
the benefit of those, who were una­
ble to attend the Orientation meet­
ing a few weeks ago, the outline 
and details of this examination are 
repeated here:
1) The Examination will be 
largely based on the material con­
tained in the Plebe Bible, which 
every Freshman should possess. 
Those who have not yet received 
this booklet, should contact Ed 
Uber, A P O President, in Cedar 
Hall. A few questions will be taken 
from Dean Tarbell’s book “The His­
tory of Carnegie Tech, 1905-1935” 
which is available in the library.
2) The freshmen will be requir­
ed to know all major Tech songs and 
cheers, Carnegie’s history, the 
names and functions of all outstand­
ing members of the administration 
and faculty, the purpose, and the or­
ganization and officers of all pres­
ent student activities.
3) All freshmen, those who en­
tered in January as well as those 
who came here in May, must take 
the traditions exam. A passing 
grade will be absolutely required 
for participation in any extra-cur­
ricular activity, and this rule will be 
followed strictly.
4) Freshmen who will not be 
able to take the exam at the speci­
fied time and date should be Ed 
Uber in Cedar Hall before Monday,
.. ACAC Minutes..
The meeting was called to order at 
5:25 p.m.
Present: Messrs. Fairchild and Peter­
son, Misses Schadel and Bloom, and Mrs. 
Marshall.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Special Committee: Mrs. Marshall re­
ported that the freshman traditions ex­
amination will be given the last week in 
July. Notice of these examinations will 
be published in the TARTAN.
Athletics: Mr. Peterson moved that the 
minutes of the Intramural Board Meeting 
of July 12 be accepted as read. Motion 
carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Murphy reported that the Publica­
tions Committee will be requested to se­
lect a new representative to ACAC to re­
place Mr. Byrnes of the ASTP. This new 
selectee, if his record is acceptable, will 
then be appointed to ACAC by Colonel 
Bass.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Murphy reported that Company B 
had submitted to ACAC a constitution 
providing for the creation of a social 
committee to function as a group on 
campus for the purpose of conducting 
social events either for ASTP alone or 
for the school in general. This constitu­
tion will be in Mr. Murphy’s office this 
week for members of ACAC to read be­
fore their next meeting, at which time the 
constitution will be brought up for ap­
proval or disapproval.
It was decided that Mr. Murphy request 
from the athletic authorities a schedule of 
the soft-ball fields available for civilian 
students and the times at which they are 
available. A similar schedule for the 
shower rooms is also to be requested.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SARA L. BLOOM, 
Assistant Secretary.
July 26, in order to arrange for an­
other time.
his work at Carnegie and the Uni­
versity of Puerto Rico, he attended 
Louisiana State University, where 
he received his bachelor’s and mas­
ter’s degrees. One of his younger 
brothers is now a graduate student 
at Tech, and the other is planning 
tentatively to enter as an under­
graduate.
Along with his other activities, 
Mr. Colon is a member of several 
honoraries—Alpha Xi Sigma, Sigma 
'Xi, Phi Kappa Phi, Phi Lambda 
Upsilon, and the American Chem­
ical Society. He has been a teaching 
assistant during 1942-43 and will 
leave by the end of the month.
SUPPLIES, INC.
1218 LIVERPOOL STREET 
Phone FA. 6330
FRENCHY’S SEA FOOD
Restaurant
5700 Penn Avenue
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
5200 FORBES STREET
66Your Campus Drug Store”
Featuring A Complete Line
CANTEEN ITEMS
ARMY
SHIRTS
TIES
SOCKS
HATS
BELTS
STATIONERY 
LAUNDRY BAGS 
SHOE SHINE OUTFITS 
NOTE BOOKS 
POLO SHIRTS
ALSO MANY OTHER ARMY ITEMS

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
i .............. ...I—............................ ............... ......... .........
Old Recalled
Oldest Worker Employed At Carnegie 
Is Former Blacksmith Ed Hawke
Girard Appointed Local 
Red Cross Field Director
Service men stationed in the Pitts­
burgh area have increased in num­
ber so rapidly that the American 
Red Cross found it necessary to have 
a field director here and to link the 
boys with their families back home. 
Eugene N. S. Girard, former assist­
ant field director at Indiantown Gap 
and Hunter Field, Georgia, has been 
transferred to Pittsburgh for this 
purpose.
In this capacity, Mr. Girard will 
be in touch with men located at Car­
negie, Pitt, Duquesne, and Keystone 
School. He is replacing Walter J. 
Hourt, field director of the Ameri­
can Red Cross Veteran’s Adminis­
tration Faculty. Coming from Haz-' 
elton, Mr. Girard is a home-town 
man who has been with the Red 
Cross since May of 1942, and will be 
located in 1003, Chamber of Com­
merce Building in Pittsburgh.
4____________________
The oldest worker employed by 
Carnegie Tech is an English-born, 
naturalized American. Ed Hawke. 
He is sixty-seven years old, and 
plans to work here for the dura­
tion, or as long as Carnegie needs 
his services. He is undoubtedly one 
of the most faithful and most ef­
ficient workers Tech has employed.
To look at him, one would hard­
ly consider him capable of his pro­
fession, blacksmithing, but watch Ed 
work and you’ll find out! Born in 
Cornwall, England, Ed came to this 
country in 1898 at the age of eleven. 
Ed hardly had a chance to acquaint 
himself with his native country, 
but he did comment on the system 
employed in his time in the public 
schools. A Lord, residing in the 
neighboring village, was the head of 
the public schools in his district, and 
Ed still speaks with an expression of 
awe as he recounts the time he visit­
ed the English Lord at his castle.
Ed came to Tech in 1908 because 
he had heard that the superinten­
dent was a fellow who could be per­
suaded to use another worker. Ed 
got the job—in the blacksmith shop 
where he worked continually until 
1929—and was then put on the main­
tenance department where he has
been ever since. Your reporter ask­
ed at what position Ed was employ­
ed before coming to Tech. Ed ex­
plains the story in a manner which 
is typical of him:
“I was a watchman in a car-wheel 
foundry for a while. Then they 
locked the foundry up and threw 
the key in the Allegheny river. 
That’s why I came here!”
So you can readily see why Ed 
had to get another position. While 
here he came to realize the advan­
tages of formal schooling and as a 
result sent two of. his own boys to 
school.
When Ed first came to Pittsburgh, 
he said he hated the town. Before 
that time he had worked in a coal 
mine for six years, and it was there 
that he became the strong and wiry 
little man that he is today. Ed is 
only five feet five, but he can sure 
take it! He has been here so long, 
it’s taken for granted that he is part 
of the school. A recent letter from 
his daughter accents his length of 
stay.
“Dad,” she wrote, “You were here 
during the last war and you’re still 
here!”
Traditions have always existed at 
Tech and always will, but perhaps 
the most interesting were those 
which Ed Hawke witnessed back in 
1926. “Freshmen were hazed a great 
deal more in those days than they 
are now,” Ed remarked. A favorite 
Tech trick was to line all the fresh­
men along the sidewalk in front of 
Administration Hall and pass a milk 
bottle, nipple and all, down the line,* 
each freshman taking an undesired 
gulp. There was a football player, 
a freshman, who played on the var­
sity team. He was exempted from
Allegheny Valley 
Bank of Pittsburgh 
5137-39 Butler Street
MEMBER FEDERAL RESERVE 
SYSTEM
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INS. CORP.
Ellis Re-elected President 
Associated Artists Group
Professor Joseph Ellis, the head 
of the Department of Sculpture, was 
re-elected president of the Associat­
ed Artists of Pittsburgh at the last 
meeting of the organization. He has 
been closely affiliated with the as­
sociation ever since coming to Car­
negie as head of the Department of 
Applied Arts in 1920. Recently the 
association held its thirty-third an­
nual exhibition where the paintings 
of Professor Ellis were presented.
Concerning war time conditions 
in the Arts School, it is the opinion 
of Professor Ellis that there have 
been very few changes from pre­
war days except that the school now 
has much better equipment.
the traditional custom of wearing 
green tie and socks during the foot­
ball season, and planned to continue 
after football season in the same 
manner. The affair was settled nice­
ly. One night as the freshman fin­
ished with his lab for the day, left 
the foundry, a gang of sophomores 
clashed with the arrogant freshmen 
led by the football player. The next 
day that same varsity man was seen 
wearing traditional freshman green! 
A gala event of the year used to be 
the buggy ride which started from 
Margaret Morrison and ended near 
Phipp’s Conservatory. Ed tells of 
the time his son, a Pi Kappa Alpha 
man, won the race. Ed had his cam­
era and took snapshots of the start 
and the finish. In his excitement Ed 
forgot to turn the film and the pic­
tures were ruined. ,
Ed tells of the many times while 
walking downtown that he is ap­
proached by some former pupils 
who yells out: “Hi Shorty” There 
are hundreds of boys who still re­
member their old instructor, and 
that makes Ed feel pretty good. Ed 
once prepared an elaborate story of 
his experiences at Tech, worked 
over it for a week and then never 
saw it printed. We hope he is suf­
ficiently rewarded now, some thirty- 
five years after he first came to work 
at Tech.
Cathedral Garage
G. A. HAZEME, Owner 
609 Neville St.
________TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943
E. M. HILL 
LUMBER CO.
Lumber & Millwork 
2601 Penn Ave.
Dial Grant 5952 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
SUN DRUG COMPANY
Boquet and Joncaire
PITTSBURGH
PA.
After High SchoolWhat?
Does continued education for a future career seem impossible? Listen 
. . . One of the greatest opportunities for a real lifetime career in one 
of the most important fields the world has ever known awaits young men 
and women 16 to 25 who act now.
STUDY
AT
• MASTER MECHANICS
• AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING
• AVIATION SECRETARIAL
Pitsburgh Institute of Aeronautics
7th St. at Duquesne Way, Pittsburgh.ATlantic 0800
Loftus Engineering Company 
OLIVER RLDG.
PITTSBURGH 
PA.
E. E. Brosius, Inc.
19th Street 
Pittsburgh 
Pa.
Federal Paper Co.
Paper and General 
Merchandise
2417-19-21 SMALLMAN STREET 
Phone Grant 1272-1273
The Wadsworth Stone and Paving Company
INCORPORATED 1892
ASPHALT CONTRACTORS CEMENT
WATERPROOFING 
6435 HAMILTON AVENUEPITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONE HILAND 0352
HAMILTON PUMP CO., INC.
Manufacturers of Pump Machinery 
3939 Butler Street

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
5belta Jfal&i tf-osith
Pledges Sponsor Gambling Party 
Complete With Drama and Coke
dirt colyum
By Tom
The “Delta Shelter” was deeply- 
shrouded in mystery, Saturday 
evening, as the guests began to ar­
rive for the annual Pledge Party. 
Formal attire was a requirement for 
admission, but the night’s events 
proved to be far from formal.
Not a gleam of light shone 
through the blacked-out windows of 
the house, in fact many guests were 
tempted to turn away from the 
seemingly vacant building. How­
ever, in response to the insistent 
ringing of the chimes, the door was 
furtively opened, and the some­
what bewildered party-goers were 
admitted at a scene of wonderment.
There before them they beheld a 
completely equipped gambling den. 
Slickly groomed croupiers stood ex­
pectantly at Roulette and Chuck-A- 
Luck tables, confident that they 
were soon to relieve the guests of 
their allotted $1,000 per couple. 
(Chips of course!)
Streamers in the purple, white, 
and gold of Delta Tau Delta bedeck­
ed the front rooms and hall, but the 
downstairs recreation room was 
really the sight to behold. At the 
foot of the stairs stood a life-sized 
painting of “Gambler-Jim,” himself,
Ex-House Mother At Grill
Mrs. Henrietta L. Pool, former 
housemother of Cypress Hall, has 
been named Assistant to the Man­
ager of the Carnegie Inn.
Jack Pool, her son, is a Chemical 
Engineer of the Class of 1935.
Entering Freshmen
continued from page 2 
Letters have been sent to all appli­
cants notifying them of this fact. 
The current A. S. T. P. term shall 
end on July 31, with the new term 
beginning on August 9.
This is of vital importance to the 
tentative class of ’47. While their 
chances for deferment are increas­
ing, it must be realized that a great 
deal of doubt exists. The synchron­
ization of civilian students with A. S. 
T. P. will greatly increase their 
chances for available Army training 
if inducted.
Mabelle L. Stone
Fire Auto and Casualty 
Insurance
1419 Davis Avenue 
N. S., PITTSBURGH, PA.
Linden 1067
Farrahy
pointing graciously toward the 
beautifully decorated play room. 
The walls were covered with ap­
propriate illustrations, including 
top-hatted customers (both sober 
and otherwise), chorus girls, and 
many typical gambling scenes.
Next to the dance floor, the dice 
table was the center of attraction, 
downstairs. The leather-seated al­
cove was occupied by a dart game.
After several hours of dancing, 
gambling, and general fun, those 
present were summoned to the front 
hall, where the members of the 
pledge class presented a humorous 
skit entitled, “The Life of a Delt 
Pledge,” or “Eat, Drink, and Be 
Merry, For Tomorrow We Get 
Beat!” The play was followed im­
mediately by a weird tale of Delt 
House ghosts, and sundry skeletons- 
in closets. The story had hardly be* 
gun, when a horrible scream rang 
through the house, and a body hur­
tled down the stair-well to landing 
with a resounding thud in the midst 
of the proceedings. Lights were sud­
denly conspicuous by their absence.
You will have to ask someone who 
was there to describe to you the 
gruesome events which followed. 
(You see I fainted!)
All those who were still conscious 
then repaired to the dining hall 
where a delicious, if somewhat anti- 
climactic, mid-night supper was 
served. At the evening’s close, 
prizes were awarded to the guests 
who had proved most successful at 
the gambling tables. The party was 
concluded with the singing of the 
traditional Delt songs.
P. S. Contrary to a current rumor: 
The place was NOT raided!
The Erti Baking 
Company
922 2nd Avenue
Henry Zottola
106 Yinial St. 
North Side
Reliance Engineering Company 
Magee Building 
Pittsburgh 
Pa.
By Mike
WE HEAR THAT: Alice McKeon 
is majoring in Bud Humphreyville 
. . . Phil Martin is mumbling to him­
self, uh huh, he’s thataway for a 
blonde bomb-shell Barbro Lind- 
strom . . . Jean Swaney and Henry 
Horak are writing love letters on 
the lawn every 12:30 . . . That in­
fernal triangle we spotted weeks 
ago has hit: Cancel the Witt-Stauff 
romance and tie him to Dotty’s good 
friend Betsy Ross! ! !
ORCHIDS TO: Patsy Weakland 
who is now convalescing after a tuff 
tussle with acute appendicitis. Hank 
her man Monday through Sunday 
inclusive advises yours truly that 
Patsy is coming along nicely.
WE WONDER IF: It’s fate or just 
a carefuly laid plan that made a 
Furlough Dance impossible . . . The 
Tech-Pitt feud will now simmer 
since a detachment of airmen have 
checked in at Tech . . . Bob Hawkins 
anticipated his sudden popularity 
and election to honorary presidency 
of the U. C. F. . . . Betty Depp of the 
Dormont Clan is still playing the 
telephone? ’Twas quite a game, but 
picking on a gossip columnist is 
bad! ! !
HELLZAPOPPIN’!: The creation 
of Social Committees by both A 
and B companies promise excitin’ 
times this next term. Could this be 
to bolster the morale of the All- 
Tech Band? Incidentally, they have 
been given a new lease on life by 
the addition of Fred Dora, former
Gingold
arranger for Tommy Dorsey and 
other name bands, who arived at 
Tech last week.
IT SEEMS TO US: That George 
“Goo-goo” Salvaggio detracts much^ 
ly from Don Mash’s playing of first 
base by that constant heckling. By 
the way, they’re the funniest two­
some on campus these days ... As 
though Billy Cogswell and Marge 
McCaffrey have lots in common . . , 
Dick Winkler and A1 Neleson have 
developed a sudden interest in base­
ball . . . That Jean McDonald is 
pretty lucky—Bert Bassett was back 
on a 7-day leave before induction.
BIG DOIN’S: At the Delt house 
last week when Dorrie Bowman, 
Lucy Deily, and all the other old; 
Delt girls were on hand . . . More s 
of the same next week at the Kappa j 
Sig house when Marc Henneberger, J 
Jim “Knipper” Rice, Don French, 
Bob DeBortoli, and all the boys j 
from Belvoir come back on a 3-day [ 
leave.
George K. Bridges
PASSENGER CAR AND LIGHT
TRUCK RECAPPING
Used Tires Vulcanizing
530 Woodward Ave. (Rear) 
West Park McKees Rocks, Pa.
Phone Federal 2013
Girls Building A Career 
Will Want to Know about
Boggs & Buhl's Streamlined 
Career Shop
This shop supplies careerists’ fashions quicker than you can say, “Just 
looking.” It has its own entrance so you step right into it off Federal 
Street. Its juniors’ and misses’ dresses, suits, coats and sportswear are 
conveniently arranged for self-choosing . . . and cheerful salesgirls 
come into the picture at just the right moment.
Your Style 
Your Size
Your Color 
Your Price

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 20t 1943
Army Wins Golf Match
The Intramural Golf competition 
was run off last Saturday on the Fox 
Chapel course. Six men were select­
ed from the civilian students to 
compete against the best the A. S. 
T. P. boys had to offer. The result 
was a match which ended with the 
Army boys in the lead.
Original plans were that the two 
groups on Campus, civilian and 
Army, should each run off a qualify­
ing round, which plan was carried 
through by the soldiers, each hope­
ful turning in his 18 hole score for 
a round played on the Schenley 
course. The civilian students, how­
ever, failed to turn in their qualify­
ing scores and therefore a team had 
to be formed at the last minute to 
play the Army boys.
Jefferson 
Memorial Park
Dick Arnold of Citcom hurls another 
strike past a bewildered batter in continu­
ing his winning streak. He pitched and 
won four games in one week in the first 
round to give Citcom the championship.
Notice
The Intramural Board has decid­
ed that, in order to eliminate diffi­
culties arising from the fact that the 
civilian teams oftentimes are not 
aware of all the rules governing 
each intramural sport, conferences 
will be held before the beginning of 
each new competition. At these con­
ferences each team will be repre­
sented and they will be able to ask 
questions about the sport.
J. BURNETT 
ABRAHAM
Funeral Director
West Elizabeth
SUPERIOR TRUCK 
RODY COMPANY
20th and Liberty 
Pittsburgh 
Pa.
Economy Engineering Company 
RESSEMER RUILDING
PITTSBURGH 
PA.
STERLING OIL COMPANY
6800 Kelly Street 
Pittsburgh 
Pa.
Platoons One and Two of Co. A 
Fight For Lead In League II
The fast-moving second round of 
the mushball race saw many 
changes made in the league stand­
ings this past week, although the top 
teams in leagues one and two re­
tained their positions. Cameron Hall 
and Pi Kappa Alpha, first round 
winners, although still far down the 
list, pulled out of the .000 class and 
may be burning up the base paths 
again this next week to continue in 
their previous form.
Monday, Citcom Clan, without 
their starting hurler, Arnold, got 
well in command of the situation as 
they took over the Kappa Sigs 8 to 0 
behind Julius Hirshfield’s two-hit 
pitching. Citcom tallied three rups 
in the first and could have stopped 
there and still won the game. Co. A, 
Pt. 4 scored 10 runs in the third as 
they smashed the Tau Delts 14 to 6, 
with the aid of an enormous num­
ber of errors on the part of the fra­
ternity Jteam. The Delts lost to A3 
by an identical 14 to 6 score, the 
Army boys tallying all their runs 
from 11 hits. The Beta Sig-DU game 
was cancelled.
Due to army tests being held on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, all games 
were cancelled on Tuesday, but 
Wednesday competition was resum­
ed with the first platoon of Com­
pany A holding first place in League 
I by trouncing the TX nine by the 
score of 14 to 1. Steve Gaza let the 
civilians down with but 5 hits. Dick 
Woodward homered with no one on 
in the eighth to break a tie at one all 
and give the A-2 aggregation a vic­
tory over a fighting B-3 in the Car­
negie Bowl. The Company A team 
scored once in the first and the B-3 
nine scored once in the second for 
the only tallies until Woodward’s 
homer in the eigthth. Bob Scott al-
Joseph Breslove
Oliver Building
Pittsburgh 
Pa.
lowed the A-3 boys only one hit, but 
his team, B-5, lost anyway, 7 to 6, to 
“Brooklyn” Benko and his A-3 boys. 
Kappa Sigma, unable to get a full 
team cn the field, forfeited to A-4, 
1 to 0.
Thursday, Cameron Hall came 
back into the win column as they 
trounced the Beta Sig nine, 5 to 2, 
with the aid of a three run uprising 
in the first half of the opening frame. 
The fraternity team started a rally 
in the seventh, but it was cut short 
with one run across. The DU’s, be­
hind Frank Showman’s seven hit 
pitching, knocked out another win 
as they pushed B-4 around for a 7 
to 4 win. The Fifth Platoon of Com­
pany A went hit wild, hammering 
out 14 safe blows, but they talied 
only four runs and lost to the up- 
and-coming B-2 squad, 9 to 4. The 
soldiers of B-3 knocked Chuck Dun- 
fee out of the box with six runs in 
the first three innings, but were 
held down by Tom Wylie and held 
only a 2 run lead when the game 
ended as they beat the SAE’s 5 to 7.
Friday Bill Barr of the Kappa 
Sigs shut out the Tau Delts, allow­
ing but 5 hits as the Clyde St. boys 
won their second game of the sea­
son, 3 to 0. The Kappa Sigs scored 
all of their runs in the fourth for 
the only scoring in the game. The 
TX’s won their first game of the 
year as they knocked the SAE’s all 
over the lot, winning 8 to 1. Both 
teams colected 6 hits, but the TX’s 
worked well in the clutches and the 
SAE’s were snowed under. The 
PiKA’s rallied from their last week 
slump to conquer the Betas by the 
small but safe margin of three runs; 
the final score was 4 to 1. Irwin 
Breier, big gun in the PiKA battery, 
held the Betas to 5 hits. The DU’s 
piled up a six run lead in the first 
two innings, but the A-5 boys pulled 
ahead in the later innings to win, 8 
to 6.
Saturday platoons one and four of 
Company B slugged it out in the 
early innings, but pitchers Burgess 
King and Malcolm • Mattox bore 
down and converted it to a pitcher’s 
battle, B-l finally winning by a 7 
to 5 score.
UNION COLLERIES
Oakmont, Pa.
FEDERAL ENGINEERING CO.
239 FOURTH AVENUE PITTSBURGH, PA.
Representing
DETROIT STOKERS 
NATIONAL HEAT EXCHANGERS 
NORDBERG HOISTS AND ENGINES

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Athletic Director Answers 
Queries About Football Team
By Chuck Peterson, Sports Editor
In response to my editorial “How 
About a Football Team?” printed in 
last week’s TARTAN, I received a 
letter from Mr. Clarence Overend, 
Director of Intercollegiate Athlet­
ics, which answered the many ques­
tions which are abroad on that sub­
ject. The letter states in part: “ . . . 
At a recent luncheon for the Pitts­
burgh Sports Writers, Dr. Doherty, 
our President, stated that the En­
gineering Colleges would have the 
advantages over the Liberal Col­
leges on the question of civilian en­
rollment and that here at Carnegie 
Tech we would make every effort 
to continue Intercollegiate Athletics. 
Therefore I am going along on the 
assumption that we will have a 
Varsity Team this fall provided the 
men show enough interest in form­
ing a squad. Many of the civilian 
students have contacted me recently 
on the campus stating that they are 
very much interested in coming out 
for football this fall. There are many 
factors that enter into the problem 
as to the best time to begin such 
practice. The month of August will 
be a busy period here at Carnegie 
Tech. From August 26th to August 
28th all the Expedited Courses will 
register for the fall term. Classes 
will begin on August 20th. My idea 
would be to issue equipment on the 
two registration days and have prac­
tice begin on Monday, August 30th. 
That would give us six weeks of 
practice in order to condition the 
squad for the first game with Case 
on October 9th.
Notice that you mention they are 
having football practice at Pitt. Will 
grant you that, but they are going 
through a lot of lost motion, as 
many of the men now practicing 
will be in the armed forces by the 
time fall rolls around. Under our 
plan we will know exactly who will 
report and we can concentrate on 
them exclusively.
As to the question of coaching we 
have a sufficient number of men 
who can be contacted and ready to 
serve on very short notice. . .
Signed: Clarence Overend.
This very clearly states the status 
of football here at Tech this coming
fall, and should erase any doubt in 
students’ minds about policy. There­
fore, with our doubts eliminated, 
let’s get behind the team and show 
them that the school is solidly be­
hind them when they go on the field 
against Case’s Rough Riders next 
October!
The small turnout among civilian 
students for the intramural golf 
competition deserves comment. On­
ly eleven civilians signed up for the 
tournament in the first place, a turn­
out which was not too bad, even 
though not exceptional. However, 
only two of that group were willing 
to play when competition time roll­
ed around. Thus it was necessary for 
Marve Goldberger, Intramural Golf 
Chairman, to ask six golf players of 
his acquaintance to form a team to 
play the best of the Army’s golfers.
If the civilian students on the 
Tech campus want more freedom in 
activities, they should first show 
that they are willing and capable to 
handle the ones they already have. 
Let’s get behind these new sports 
which can be worked into the pres­
ent fast moving program of the 
school, and really make a good 
showing from here on in.
To the civilian mushball players:
Mr. Murphy has promised to clear 
up the question of fields for games 
which are not regularly scheduled 
intramural contests. This will also 
include practice sessions for those 
teams which feel that they need 
workouts. Whatever answer Mr. 
Murphy gets in his queries, it will 
be necessary for those teams desir­
ing fields to make reservations with 
the Athletic Department ahead of 
time. By doing this all teams can ar­
range for fields.
J. H. LUTZ 
LUMBER CO.
Bridgeville, Pa.
Allegheny Machinery Supply 
4713 FRIENDSHIP AVENUE * * 
PITTSBURGH 
PA.
Moorhead Reitmeyer Co., Inc.
Rebuilt Electrical Machinery
A Group of Electrical Engineers Applying an Engineering Knowledge to 
the Used Machinery Business.
DEALING IN REBUILT ELECTRICAL MACHINERY—EXCLUSIVELY 
—FOR A QUARTER OF A CENTURY
OFFICE AND SHOP 30th AND BRERETON STREETS 
MAYFLOWER 7900 PITTSBURGH, PA.
League Standings
LEAGUE I
Team Won Lost Pet.
Co. B, Pt. 2 ...................... 3 0 1.000
Delta Upsilon..................... 3 1 .750
Co. B, Pt. 1 ....................... 2 1 .667
Co. A, Pt. 5 .................... 2 3 .400
Co. B, Pt. 4 ....................... 1 2 .333
Cameron Hall ................... 1 3 .250
Beta Sigma Rho ............... 0 2 .000
Last Week’s Results
Co. B, Pt. 2...........9—Co. A, Pt. 5..........4
Delta Upsilon ...7—Co. B, Pt. 4.............4
Cameron Hall ...5—Beta Sigma Rho..2
LEAGUE II ?
Team Won Lost Pet.
Co. A, Pt. 1 ..................... 3 0 1.000
Co. A, Pt. 2 ..................... 2 0 1.000
Co. B, Pt. 3 . ................... 2 1 .667
Pi Kappa Alpha . ........... 1 1 .500
Theta Xi .......................... 1 2 .333
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ... 1 3 .250
Beta Theta Pi .................. 0 3 .000
Last Week’s Results
Co. A, Pt. 1........14—Theta Xi ..................1
Co. A, Pt. 2..... 2—Co. B, Pt.3..............1
Co. B, Pt. 3 ___7—SAE .....................  . 5
Pi Kappa Alpha. 4—Beta Theta Pi ...1
Theta Xi .......... 8—SAE .......................1
LEAGUE III
Team Won Lost Pet.
Co. B, Pt. 5 ...................... 3 0 1.000
Citcom Clan .................... 3 1 .750
Co. A, Pt. 3 .................... 3 1 .750
Tau Delta Phi ................ 1 2 .333
Co. A, Pt. 4 .................... 1 2 .333
Delta Tau Delta .............. 1 3 .250
Kappa Sigma ................... 1 4 .203
Last Week’s Results
Co. B, Pt. 5........ 7—Co. A, Pt. 3..........6
Citcom Clan___8—Kappa Sigma -------0
Co. A, Pt. 3........14—Delta Tau Delta..6
Co. A, Pt. 4...............14—Tau Delta Phi ...6
Co. A, Pt. 4........ 1—Kappa Sigma -----0
Kappa Sigma ... 3—Tau Delta Phi.. . .0
Board Changes By-Law
The Intramural Board, in its past
few meetings, has run into several 
necessary changes which needed to 
be made in its roster. John Lind- 
berg, Civilian Co-chairman, resign­
ed, and it was necessary to elect 
his successor to the Board and to 
the chairmanship. Frank Lucas was 
appointed to the Board and Chuck 
Peterson was elected to be chair­
man. * '
A change was made in the consti­
tution of the Board so that it now 
provides that, in case of a vacancy 
on the Board, the vacancy should be 
filled by the civilian members of the 
board instead of by the Civilian Co- 
chairman. This amendment was 
ratified by A.C.A.C.
CRAWFORD
GRILL
Wylie Avenue
EAST END 
TRUCKING CO.
350 Cedarville St. 
E. E., Pgh., Pa.
PITT METALS
COMPANY
INCORPORATED
4314-16 Main Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Mayflower 1771
AMSLER-MORTON COMPANY
Design and Construction Steel and 
Glass Plants and Equipment
FULTON BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Heat Treating Furnaces & Supplies
Gas and Electric Box Type, Pit Type, Pot Type,
Hot Plates and Muffle Furnaces
Manufactured By
LINDBERG ENGINEERING CO.
HEVI DUTY ELECTRIC CO.
Heat Treating Salts, Carburizing Compound, 
Anti-Carburizing Paint, and Pressed Steel Pots
By
THE CASE HARDENING SERVICE CO.
Harold A. Woolman,
247 Pennsylvania Blvd., 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Call
Locust 1430

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943
These Patriotic Citizens Say
KEEP ‘EM ROLLING
Cy Hungerford 
Dr. H. F. Shepler 
Acheson Manufacturing Co. 
Mrs. Thomas R. Hartley 
B. B. McGinnis 
Mrs. Alex Manculich 
Mrs. Paul F. Voight 
Dr. F. J. Santora 
Voilet Hausman 
Henry M. Reed 
Judge Thomas Marshall 
Howard E. Miller 
Mrs. H. E. Sheldon 
Dr. Frank A. Leonardo 
Jos. A. Mervis Produce Co. 
F. W. Severance 
Dr. C. P. Mascli 
Galbraith Machinery Co. 
Hon. John S. Herron 
J. K. Davidson & Bros. 
Mellon-Stewart 
Harper Feed Mills, Inc.
McDonald Funeral Home 
Pgh. Forgings Co.
National Metal Bearing Corp. 
Geo. D. Fitzpatrick 
J Mrs. W. P. Witherow 
W. L. McQullian 
Albert Curry 
Harry Graham 
Mary D. Heald 
Hon. Jas. P. Kirkc
Dr. N. H. Bennett 
Jas. H. Matthews Co.
Wm. Buhl 
Dr. Emelia Carpini 
John’s Market 
Miss Rhea Beck 
Dr. George J. Sarraff 
Williams & Co. 
Molybdenum Corp. of 
America 
C. F. Gates *
Federal Metals Division of American Smelting and 
Refining Company
. . . We Hear . . .
This is the way they looked at it 
in the last war. You have two 
chances. You will be drafted, or you 
will not. If you are not, you have 
nothing to worry about. If you are, 
you have two chances. You will be 
sent to a training camp, or you will 
be sent overseas. If you are sent 
overseas, you have two chances. You 
will be held in reserve, or you will 
be sent to the front. If you are held 
in reserve, you have nothing to 
worry about. If you are sent to the 
front, you have two chances. You 
will go into action, or you will not.
If you are not, you have nothing 
to worry about. If you do, you have 
two chances. You will be wounded, 
or you will not.
If you are not, you have nothing 
to worry about. If you are, you have 
two chances. You will recover, or 
you will not.
If you recover, you have nothing 
to wory about. If you do not, you 
still have two chances.
The Communique, 
Camp Livingstone, La. 
Eastbrook Heckler has something 
to say again about Capitol Hill. Peo­
ple in Washington, he says, will bet 
on anything from when the second 
front will open to where Eleanor 
will be a week from next Tuesday. 
He predicts, that if the coal situa­
tion doesn’t get better, F.D.R. will 
be making quite a few fireside chats 
this winter.
Blame it on the war! The annual 
baseball game between the single 
and married men of Easton’s Liber­
ty Hose Company was cancelled for 
the first time in fifty-four years to­
day. The bachelors, almost wiped 
out by the draft, were unable to 
field a team. AP
Also from the Camp Livingstone 
Communique we have this bit of 
philosophy:
A girl who wears a cotton stocking 
Need never give her door a locking; 
A girl who chooses other makes, 
Gets all the runs and all the breaks.
Students at Indiana University 
are wondering what would happen 
if the squad leaders of the WAVES 
who are stationed there would say 
“Hut, two, three, four,” instead or 
“Hut one, two, three, four.”
The following bit of sex comes 
from the Camp Cellan, Calif., Range 
Finder:
CHEMICAL ANALYSIS 
Element—Woman 
Occurrence — Found wherever 
man exists. Seldom in a free state, 
with a few exceptions in the com­
bined state.
Physical Properties — All colors, 
shapes, and sizes, and ages. Usually 
in disguised condition. Face covered 
with a film of composite material. 
Boo hoos at nothing and may freeze 
at any moment; however, melts
when properly treated. Very bitter 
if not well used.
Chemical Properties—Very active. 
Possesses a great affinity for gold, 
silver, platinum, precious stones or 
anything of value. Violent reaction 
when left alone. Undissolved by 
liquids, but activity greatly stimu­
lated when treated with spirits so­
lution. Sometimes yields to pres­
sure. Ages very rapidly, usually 
getting into permanently enlarged 
state. Fresh variety has great mag­
netic attraction.
Caution—High explosive when in 
inexperienced hands.
It is better to be silent and thought 
a fool than to speak and remove all 
doubt, says the Terminal Tropics, 
U.S. Naval Air Station, San Pedro, 
Calif.
Somebody at Indiana University 
makes the following comments on 
current events:
If she is asked, and someone al­
ways is asking her, Mrs. Roosevelt 
is more than willing to give the an­
swer to any question which is asked 
of her, provided the question has 
nothing to do with any contest, does 
not give out state secrets, and does 
not divulge such personal informa­
tion ... as does the President eat 
crackers in bed.
Air Marshall for the German 
Reich, Herman Goering, had better 
start chalking up a few victories 
for Herr Hitler or “master mind” 
Adolf will be sending him off to a 
camp ... to concentrate on the prob­
lem.
Goering seems to be right up 
there as far as command is concern­
ed in the Nazi empire but then so 
was Hess at one time. Proving, that 
the bigger they come makes no dif­
ference and even those with high 
or low IQ’s alike can be fools, it 
seems that we all are qualified for 
the job . . . if we’re first on the draw.
It’s a funny thing about the draft 
situation. It kinda reminds one of a 
bank night drawing, only everyone 
hits the jack pot.
Starkle, starkle, little twink 
Who the Hell you are you think? 
I’m not under the Alcofluence of 
Inkelhol,
Though some thinkle peep I am.
I fool so feelish 
I don’t know who is me,
That the Drunker I sit here,
The longer I get.
Flight Time, 
Goodfellow Field, Texas. 
He: Smoke?
She: No, thank you.
He: Drink?
She: Nope.
He: Neck?
She: Oh, no. ¦
He: What in hell do you do?
She: (coyly) I tell lies.
Gowen Beacon, 
Boise, Idaho.
Superior Railway Products Corp.
7501 Thomas Boulevard 
Phone PE. 8000

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
‘loieà 9+t Khaki . . .
That fraternities at Carnegie are 
functioning this summer under a 
definite handicap is readily seen 
from examination of the list of 
prominent Campus Greeks now in 
the services. Every house on the 
campus can point with pride to at 
least one “big” member who has 
gone to war.
Among the outstanding Beta Sigs 
now serving their country is former 
Chancellor, APO and Intramural 
Board member, and organizer of 
SWAC, Reese Mednick, who is with 
the Navy at Yale. Basketball stars 
George Marck and last year’s cap­
tain Dave Brinn are now in the 
Army Air Corps.
Beta Theta Pi’s chief loss consists 
of Roger Beal, who is in the Air 
Corps, and Navy man Bob White­
side. While at Tech, Beale was ac­
tive in Scabbard and Blade, the Kil­
tie Band and the swimming team. 
Whiteside devoted his time to Stu­
dent Council and the track team.
Jack Woodside and George Jack­
son, formeir President and Treasur­
er, respectively, of the Delts, are 
two more Techites flying in the Air 
Corps. Jack was an editor of Tri- 
Publications, while Jackson served 
on the Y-cabinet.
Of the thirty DU’s who recently 
left for the armed services, the most 
active was Jim Boyce, now of the 
Air Corps. Jim was Steward in his 
fraternity, member of ODK, and 
Treasurer of the Student Council.
Carnegie’s athletic ranks have 
been depleted considerably by the 
departure of five Kappa Sigs: Jim 
Pantell and Bill Beamer, both in 
the Army Meteorology Service, Bill 
Skinner, E. R. C., Bud Hall, Navy
V-l, and Harry Lindsey, Merchant 
Marine. Beamer was a track star, 
while the other four performed on 
the gridiron.
Bob De Bortoli of the Army Engi­
neers, and Bob Fries in V-l at Yale, 
have left the Phi Kaps. While at 
Tech De Bortoli was the sparkplug 
of last year’s basketball team, and 
Fries was president of IF Council 
and member of ODK.
The PiKA’s have lost Bob Rei- 
sacher and John O’Mara; Bob is a 
Quartermaster Lieutenant, and 
O’Mara in the Air Corps. Reisacher 
was formerly editor of the Scottie, 
president of the PiKA, and member 
of the IF Council. John was Scot- 
tie’s business manager, .Vice Pres­
ident of the fraternity, and a mem­
ber of the SWAC.
The Tau Delts lost cDave Neuss, 
editor of the TARTAN and Tech­
nical staff member, to the Navy, 
while fraternity consul Irving Cap- 
lan, Pi Tau Sigma member and ten­
nis and basketball man, went to MIT 
as an ensign. One of the TDP alum­
ni, Captain Frank Mandell, USMC, 
was killed on Guadalcanal.
In the army is Alfred Sullivan, 
Vice President of SAE, treasurer of 
the Junior class and cadet-major of 
the ROTC; while Ensign McClure 
was for three years an outstanding 
member of the varsity football 
squad.
Theta Xi lost two of their most 
prominent men to the Army. Jack 
Bowers was star of the tennis team 
and cadet-major of the ROTC, 
while TX president Gilbert Bassett 
devoted his energies to the Intra­
mural Board.
Extension of Wartime Scholarships 
Seen For Peace Time Students
With a scholarship fund of an es­
timated more than half a million 
dollars now being offered to young 
men of America for training in war 
courses or services connected with 
the war, the Associated Collegiate 
Press questioned recently what it 
would be worth to the American 
people to train their young people 
for peace time activities.
According to R. B. Stuart, Comp­
troller of Purdue University, who 
made the above estimate of the 
scholarship fund, the sum will be 
spent at about 300 American col­
leges and universities actively en­
gaged in giving special war train­
ing. Yale University, which has 
leased half its living facilities and 
one-third of its educational plant for 
use of 2,600 Army Air Force stu­
dents; Harvard, which is training 
3,500 men in service schools; Co­
lumbia, where 2,000 candidate Navy 
officers are studying; Princeton, 
which accommodates more than 1,-
000 Army and Navy officer candi­
dates; and Carnegie, which should 
soon have more than 1,000 ASTP 
men, are institutions among the pi­
oneers in the educational experi­
ment.
The relationship of the service 
student to the university varies. 
Some, regularly enrolled and pay­
ing their own way, are enlisted in 
the reserves and subject to call. Still 
others, physically disqualified for 
the fighting services, may pursue 
general college courses, but will not 
share in the federal “scholarships.” 
Some, as the ASTP units, are paid 
and in uniform.
The present policy of the federal 
government of paying for the train­
ing of young people for service to 
their country has brought to the 
minds of many the possibility of an 
extension of such scholarships into 
the field of post-war education. The 
instruction is seen as an open road 
for educational and democratic ad­
vancement.
FEDERAL ENAMELING & 
STAMPING CO.
McKees Rocks 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
SAFEGUARD 
YOUR CASH 
THIS WAY!
Take no chances on your money being lost or stolen, change your cash 
into American Express Travelers Cheques. Spendable everywhere like 
cash, but refunded in full if lost or stolen.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75* for each 
$ 100. Minimum cost 40* for $ 10 to $ 5 0. For sale at Banks, Railway Express 
offices, at principal railroad ticket offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
= TRAVELERS CHEQUES
“Sure it’s a swell Arrow Tie— 
but what will the Admiral say?”
What does anyone say when he sees an Arrow Tie? 
He says, “It’s swell!”—For several reasons. Arrows 
are good-looking, in smart patterns and neat stripes. 
Arrows are made well, with a special lining cut on 
the bias to resist wrinkles, and to see that they 
make perfect knots. Arrows are made of fine fabrics 
—wear longer. For Army and Navy men as well as 
civilians—at your Arrow dealers. $1 and $1.50.
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS 
? BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS ?
SUPERIOR STEEL CORPORATION
Carnegie, Pa.
IRA C. WILCOX, INC. 
6415 Hamilton Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Cummins Diesel Engines, Inc. 
6465 HAMILTON AVE. (6)
PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943
Tech Music Student 
Burns Up Tennis Court
Lucy Borelli, a Tech music stu­
dent, is burning up the tennis courts 
this summer. Just recently she won 
the city championship and went to 
the finals in the Western Pennsylva­
nia tournament. But this is really 
nothing new to Lucy, because she 
has been active in tournament play 
ever since she started tennis, ten 
years ago.
Her first title was Allegheny 
County Interscholastic Champion. 
After this, she became a member of 
the Junior Whightman Cup team, 
and played in various inter-city 
matches. This year she would like 
to participate in the National Cham­
pionship Matches held at Forest 
Hills, N. Y. Last year she was in­
vited to compete, but her recreation­
al work for the playground commit­
tee prevented her from entering. 
Lucy expects to remain an amateur 
—she thinks that professional ten­
nis is too strenuous. Besides, her 
first love is music.
Lucy is majoring in public school
The Campus Comments ...
By Sugarman
According to the army students 
interviewed in the Scottie the ideal 
gal is a tall, medium, short, talka­
tive, not too talkative, quite brun­
ette. Trying to find something a lit­
tle more definite about her, this re­
porter wandered about the campus, 
picking up odd scraps of opinion 
from the men in mufti. The result 
was no description of the ideal girl
THE MAY 
LUMBER €0.
1201 Brighton Road 
N. S., Pgh. 
Fairfax 2800
music and in piano; she expects to 
become a professional pianist after 
graduation. She is a member of the 
class of ’44. Lucy has just been 
initiated into Sigma Alpha Iota, the 
National Music Honorary Frater­
nity, and has been elected Sergeant- 
at-arms. She has been teaching pi­
ano for a number of years, but she 
still practices regularly herself.
A transfer student from Duquesne 
University, she is very enthusiastic 
about Tech, even though she has 
been here for only a year. In spite 
of all the time she spends on extra­
curricular activities, she is able to 
stay on the honor roll. As for men, 
she likes them tall and dark, with a 
sense of humor—they must be all- 
around good sports.
MELROSE 
SUPPLY COMPANY
BRIDGEVILLE, PA. 
Excavating Grading Top Soil
E. J. DECKMAN CO.
Sales Engineers 
Oliver Btiilding 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
District Sales Representatives for Steam and Air Equipment
Lawrence Copper & Bronze
MANUFACTURER OF
BLAST FURNACE COPPER CASTINGS 
MILL BEARINGS MACHINERY BRONZE
BESSEMER BUILDING
PITTSBURGH, PA.
WALTER H. MENMNGKE, INC.
DISTRIBUTOR
1201 GALVESTON (N. S.) 
PITTSBURGH 
PA.
WELDERS SERVICE CO., INC.
229 Blvd. of Allies
but a bewildering mass of ideas that 
defied tabulation. About the only 
girl acceptable to everyone is the 
one with the brilliant intellect, 
gorgeous face and figure, and fas­
cinating personality. Further than 
this let anyone proceed at his own 
risk. Here are the attributes of the 
ideal girl according to:
Ralph Berkowitz, Sophomore, 
Printing major.
Character: Can smoke but mustn’t 
drink. Must taKe a lot of kidding. 
Doesn’t have to laugh at my jokes, 
but I would appreciate it if they’re 
good ones.
Height: Up to my chin.
Sports: Swimming.
Hair: Brunette—no blonds. Any 
hair-do as long as she has enough 
hair to wear nicely—and does.
Intelligence: Good. This is just as 
important as beauty.
Dancing: Good, of course, but no 
jitterbugging.
Must like classical music and be 
able to do all my homework. After 
a long string of “Don’t quote me’s” 
Printer Berkowitz drew upon his 
trade knowledge and admitted that 
she must have a good “layout de­
sign.”
Albert Perry, Electrical Engineer­
ing, freshman.
Character: Decent.
Personality: Flexible.
Physical aspects: Doesn’t have to 
be ravishing. Height must be any­
where from my nose to eyes. Hair 
must be worn conservatively, def-
LANDIS SPANOS 
PAINTING CO.
General Painting Contractors
2908 W. Liberty Ave.
Teachers’ Ass’n Elects 
Miss Winchester V. Pres.
Professor Edith Winchester, Head 
of the Secretarial Department of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col- 
lege, recently attended the annual 
conference of the National Associa­
tion of Business Teacher-Training 
Institutions at the University of Chi­
cago, and returned to Tech as the 
newly elected Vice-President of the 
organization. The meeting was held 
at the International House, in, the 
only room not occupied by the 
Army, which has requistioned the 
entire school for the training of 
soldiers.
There were discussions on post­
war problems and rehabilitation, 
and talks by Army and Navy of­
ficials. The latest developments on 
the progress of the N. Y. A. were 
presented by one of the members, 
and plans for the establishing of 
commercial training in schools con­
trolled by the government was dis­
cussed. Officers elected are to re­
main in office for the duration. No 
more meetings will be held, but 
service bulletins containing up-to- 
date reports will be regularly is­
sued.
initely not bleached. Figure can be 
conservative.
Sports: Swimming.
Age: Same as mine socially and 
mentally. Physically, it doesn’t mat­
ter.
Dancing: Waltz, foxtrot, and
Rhumba. The Rhumba should be 
“exotic.”
George 
Junior.
Height: 
inches.
Hair: No red heads. Should wear 
hair up in summer, down in the win­
ter.
Sports: Swimming, I like to see 
her in a bathing suit.
Dancing: Must dance “romantical­
ly” and do a little jitterbugging.
Character: Should be cooperative.
Salvaggio, Metallurgy 
About five feet, four
Do YOU Know Hotv . . .
To help fight the war between your HOME and the ELE­
MENTS? There is one and only way to give this help . . . PAINT!!!
Keep up the morale of your home with SIPE’S Paint Products’. 
Famous for over half a century.
BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS
JAMES B. SIPE AND COMPANY
Paint Engineers and Manufacturers Since 1884 
SOUTH HILLS BRANCH PITTSBURGH (16), PA.
Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory
1330 LOCUST STREET 
PITTSBURGH 
PA.
Keystone Engineering Company
BESSEMER BLDG. 
PITTSBURGH 
PA.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
one of the boys
Most of the civilian students (that 
is, the men) at Carnegie Tech know 
few of the soldiers here except for 
those that they play against in intra­
mural sports. We can easily see by 
looking anywhere on the campus 
that Carnegie femininity is already 
well acquainted with the ASTP. 
Soldiers can’t take much part in 
school activities except perhaps to 
serve on the intramural board or be 
a representative at ACAC—and that 
is what “Chuck” Fairchild is doing.
When I met Chuck, a long, lanky 
fellow, he greeted me with warm 
southern smile (Roanoke, Virginia 
style). Before coming to Carnegie, 
Chuck was at Camp Pickett, Vir­
ginia and previously attended the 
University of North Carolina where 
he was on the track and cross-coun­
try teams. Since he was a medical 
student at College, at Camp Pickett 
he was put with another group of 
men, whose duty it was “to take 
care of soldiers who went ‘batty’.”
Chuck loves to do nothing better 
than to hunt and fish. Since he liv­
ed very near West Virginia, he used 
to go to that state quite often to hunt 
squirrels. When I asked him what 
he did with the dead squirrels, he 
was very much surprised.
“Don’t tell me you’ve never eaten 
squirrel meat!” he exclaimed. And 
then he proceeded to tell me all that 
I have missed. When I told him that
I had never eaten rabbit either, he 
recalled his boyhood days when he 
had his own rabbit farm. In his 
backyard he had a huge bin which 
at one time contained more than 
one hundred fifty rabbits. But you 
know how parents like one hundred 
fifty rabbits around the house, and 
before long he had no more rabbits.
Union Acoustical 
Company
Grant Bldg. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
PITTSBURGH 
STAMP COMPANY
DIES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
817 S. Canal St. (N. S.) 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Narodini Glasnik
Croatian Newspaper 
1916 East Street 
North Side
. . . Pvt, Charles Fairchild
Chuck likes to read and listen to 
music, especially waltzes. Among 
foods he has no special favorite ex­
cept that he goes for watermelons 
in a big way.
At Carnegie Tech he is active on
* %
the Intramural Board and serves as 
athletic representative of the ASTP 
to ACAC.
At this moment in our interview 
the warning bell sounded in the 
dormitories and I had to say good­
bye to Chuck Fairchild.
Picnic
A picnic scheduled for July 25 will 
be held jointly by CWCA and YMCA. 
All boys who expect to attend will 
sign up in Mr. Davis’s office, girls will 
sign up in Margaret Morrison.
Standard Air 
Lite Corp.
713 Penn Avenue
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to RentTYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
¡¡p® $3.00 per 
MM Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Get Your C Book Now! 
Bookstore Supply Low
No doubt all of you have little red 
books. Books which contain vital
information such as-------------well!
We won’t go into that. Little books 
which play a very important part 
in your social, economic, and strictly 
personal life. Ponder for a moment. 
Does your mind fill with the same 
conjection as mine? Does your mali­
cious soul crave perhaps a peek into 
someone else’s book—someone’s pri­
vate little red book. Does your in­
trigued intellect, perhaps select as 
his victim the honorable president 
of this institution, Dr. Robert E. 
Doherty. Yes, yes, it can be done. 
Simply follow the directions given 
below.
On your way through Adminis­
trations Hall some day soon, slip 
quietly down to the basement and 
dash madly into a phone-booth. Pre­
tend to put a nickle into the slot, 
but instead glance out the door to 
see that no one is watching. And 
when the path looks clear dash up to 
the proprietor of the Bookstore and 
say “Bob sent me,” while coyly 
pointing to the rapidly vanishing 
stack of little red books. Cross the 
palm with two-bits and this pre­
cious little book marked C is yours.
Speaking
Very Lightly
Heard, over a sorority phone: 
“Hello, may I speak to Sue? Well is 
May there? How about Jean? Well, 
is Margie there? Oh, hello Margie. 
You know, we’re going to have a 
hay ride Saturday night and you’re 
the first one I thought of.”
LOST: One paper clip ... by 
blonde, blue eyes, height five feet, 
three inches, weight 109, age 20, ex­
cellent. Reward if returned. Dial 
OU 5432.
Boarding Homes Needed
A social agency needs Catholic 
homes to give temporary care to 
individual infants and young chil­
dren, also small family groups.
Write Box 409, Carnegie Tech 
Post Office, for board rates and par­
ticulars^_______________ ____________
But hurry, hurry, hurry, they’ll 
soon be gone.
Drink 
TOM TUCKER 
BEVERAGES
Uptegraff Transformer Company
Scottdale
Pa.
Pittsburgh Brass Manufacturing Co.
BRONZE AND ALUMINUM 
FOUNDERS AND FINISHERS
PENN AVENUE AND 32nd STREET
PITTSBURGH, PA.
uke it
7 UP BOTTLING CO
Beaver Falls 
Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

12__________________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN___________________________________TUESDAY, JULY 20, 1943
The TARTAN Presents ...
The Making of a College Newspaper
Some folks have it easy. Drift in­
to the Registrar’s Office, grab a 
TARTAN, amble down the hall 
looking only at the baseball scores. 
What a life!
Ever notice the assignment sheet 
in the bottom of Administration 
Building? Nice messy piece of pa­
per, no? Someone sweats blood 
every week messing it up. Only he 
loves it.
Reporters have an easy life too. 
Tuesday or Wednesday they casual­
ly glance at the board, jot down 
their assignments, and go their ways 
without a care in the world. Pounc­
ing on some innocent interview sub­
ject, they wring out every drop of 
information and speed home to their 
padded cells to boost Eveready’s 
profits 15%. Eventually their brain­
child leaves home for the nursery 
school at the Union.
But now it’s Friday. The bus­
iness staff has signed up the ads, 
and made them up on the pages. The 
editorial staff takes over, copy- 
reading and writing heads. Some­
time around eleven somebody yells 
“Forty-five minutes more. Let’s 
go!” Pages more or less fly to­
gether, stories spotted where the 
make-up man likes to think they be­
long. 11:45. Fifteen minutes ’til 
the darn thing must be done. Work 
is catching up with the clock. Ash­
trays have long since overflowed. 
Waves of waste paper slosh around 
the legs of the tables, and dixies of 
devil’s brew bounce merrily from 
mouth to mouth. They say it’s loads 
of fun, even if you do need Little 
Gem Eyebrow Propper-Uppers the 
next morning.
[ Just incidently the photographers 
enjoy themselves making everyone 
jump by popping bulbs in their 
faces. Soon thev w^end their ways 
deop into the bowls of the basement. 
Pouring over trays of chemicals, 
vreird fumes filling their nostrils, 
lKev make the movements
known cnlv to the clan which os­
tensibly brings out a picture. Some­
time late it night one of the re­
cluses will leave the, convent and 
dash upstairs with the latest con­
figuration of silver. Mavbe their 
pants do ?et a’l the color bleached 
out of them, the slim'?' feeling of 
developer is under their skin—lit­
erally.
Saturday the printers take over 
for a while. Linotype machines 
chuckle happily to themselves, 
clicking their tongues at the strings 
of words they are fed. Slugs pile 
themselves in neat rows, and here 
we go again. Proofs are pulled, and 
Sunday the staff is back on the job.
Now the sports writers go to 
work. Mushball, tennis, track, golf 
—everything flows over the sports 
editor’s desk. Probably only half 
the needed staff is there, but they 
manage. They always manage. Joe 
Flud’s pitching isn’t up to par. The 
star golfer dubbed on the eleventh. 
A string broke in so-and-so’s racket. 
Everything comes and goes. On 
into the dinner hour the work con­
tinues. Eut not onlv the sports 
staff is working. The editorial 
group’s work is never done.
The make-up should be OK. It 
was figured out carefully Friday, 
but apparently the fates just don’t
believe it. Anyway, it’s shot to 
pieces. Everything * gets juggled 
around. Di-Dee Service moves in 
next to Rolling Mill Supplies and 
One of the Girls joins the ASTP. All 
set again, back to the printers.
More proofs. More proof-reading. 
More fun! Eventually the last kinks 
are ironed out, and late Monday the 
staff kisses its baby good-bye. Ink 
slops all over the rollers, and the 
giants are ready for their feast. Bit­
ing off great mouthfuls from a 
mound of paper, they spit out sheets 
neatly smeared black splotches. The 
paper is printed.
The monsters’ slaves rush to wipe 
their lips, carrying the pages to an­
other gadget which folds them. By 
now one of the Tech boys is waiting 
for the completed issue, and Tues­
day it arrives on campus. Now this 
week’s fun is over, but next week’s 
has already started.
Success is complete. Another is­
sue has been challenged and beaten. 
While the staff devours the fruits of 
victory, our easy-going friends 
again drop into the Registrar’s Of­
fice and negligently make a stab at 
a TARTAN. Maybe they do have 
it easy, but look at all the fun they 
miss.
At Right
Corwin gets his story from a will­
ing and cooperative subject. This is 
the last bit of cooperation he’ll get 
this week! Hard work ahead.
Miss T. J. Harmany, against her 
wishes, allows her picture to be in 
the TARTAN.
Sy Corwin resigns himself to a 
gruelling assignment in the base­
ment of Industries.
Mike Pfeuffer pounds out the lines 
on his machine at the printers’..
At last! The typical Techite picks 
up the latest copy, looks it over, 
holds his nose, throws it away. Some 
read, however.
Stories are typed up in the TAR,TAN office, the work being done by 
effectively passing the buck. No one knows how to type up here, it seems—
not even the secretarial.
One of the printing presses which deliver the inky smudge to the 
newsprint sheet—in short, do the dirty work after the staff gets through.
